MRSAB.MARSHALL'S 

LARGER COOKERY BOOK 



O F 



EXTRA RECIPES 



^ 



Mks A.-B. MARSHALL'S 
LABGEB COOKEEY BOOK 



OP 



EXTEA EECIPES 



PUBLICATIONS 

Mrs. A. B. MARSHALL'S COOKERY HOOK. Twentieth 

Thousand. S.. ; by 

Mrs. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKKKV BOOK OF 

EXTRA KKf'l IM'.S. i >no (Itiines ; by post, 22$. 

THE BOOK OF ICES. Sixth Thousand. By Mrs. A. B. 
MiMuu,, If. 64 post fre<'. 



M KS A. B. MARSHALL'S 



LARGER COOKERY BOOK 



OF 



EXTRA RECIPES 



DB D MAT E I) 

BY PRBMS 

To 

B.R.H. PRINCESS CHRISTIAN 



11777/ VMJ'O HUNDRED AND EIGHTY-FOUR ILLUSTRATIONS 



Uontron 
MARSHALL'S SCHOOL OF COOKERY 

30 & S3 UOBTQCER STURKT, W. 

and SIMPKIN, MARSHALL, HAMILTON, KENT & CO. ltd. 

STATIONERS'- HALL COURT, E.C. 



PRDJTKD BY 

SPOTTJBWOODE AKD CO., NEW-BTREKT SQUARX 

LONDOK 



PREFACE 



In the Preface to my previous work (referred to throughout this book as 
Volume I.) I mentioned the solicitations of my pupils as my reason for 
publishing it. The success which has attended the publication of that 
volume the twentieth thousand having been issued has induced me 
to again accede to repeated requests for new and Extra Recipes. 

There is nothing in this hook which is contained in Volume I., con- 
sequently anyone using this work will require to refer to Volume 1. for 

standard sauces and other things given therein. 

Volume I. contains nothing thai is given in this book, hence 1 have 
adopted the term ' lv\tra Recipes ' for this work. 

Regarding these Extra Recipes I may remark thai 1 have made 
every dish given in the book, and can therefore vouch for the accuracy of 
quantities, time of cooking, and other details. 

All the engravings have been sketched from dishes actually prepared 
in my class-room. 

I have embodied in this book my aewesl inventions in sauces, 
savouries, entrees, sweets, &c. 

The division of the work into chapters on various branches is handy 
for reference, but in most chapters there will be found dishes which could 
with equal reason have been included in one of the other chapters. In 
most cases, therefore, I have added at the end of the recipes instructions 
for serving. 

I take this opportunity to thank my old pupils and readers for their 
valued support, and especially for the numerous recommendations which 
have enabled me to carry on my work so successfully up to the present. 



AGNES B. MARSHALL. 



Mortimer Street, London 
November, 1891. 



*>tr 



CONTENTS 



For Alphabetical Index see end of the book 



C.IAI'. PAGE 

I. SAUCES 5 

II. HORS D'ffiUVRES AND SAVOURIES 33 

III. SOU l'S 58 

IV. DRESSED FISH AND flSH ENTREES 79 

V. HOT ENTREES 132 

VI. cold ENTBEE8 2H> 

VII. BREAKFAST AND LUNCHEON DISHES AND CUBBIES . . 2G4 

VIII. REMOVES AND ROASTS 333 

IX. DRESSED VEGETABLES AND MEAGRE DISHES .... 376 

X. SALADS AND SANDWICHES 109 

XI. HOT SWEETS AND PUDDINGS 433 

XII. COLD FANCY SWEETS 457 

XIII. FANCY JELLIES, CBEAMS, AND COLD PUDDINGS . . . 494 

XIV. DISHES WITH PASTRIES, PASTES, RICE, ETC 517 

XV. BUNS, BREADS, CAKES, BISCUITS, AND DESSERT SWEETS . 552 

XVI. JAMS, PRESERVES, COMPOTES, AND MACEDOINES OF FRUITS 580 

XVII. TICKLES AND PRESERVES OF VEGETABLES AND MEATS . 594 

XVIII. GARNISHES, FARCES, PUREES, ICINGS, ETC 599 

INDEX 23 

INDEX TO ILLUSTRATIONS 654 



MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S 

LAEGEK 

COOKERY BOOK OF EXTRA RECIPES 



CHAPTEB I 
QAVi /> 

HOT SAUCES 

Anibassade Sauce 
Sauce d VAmbassade 

('nor up the bones from a whiting, sole, or any other white fish, put 
them in B stewpan with one large or two small onions, a bunch of herbs, 
a few peppercorns and a little salt; cover them with cold water, bring 
ir, gently to the boil, skim it and let it boil on for about halt' an hour; 
fry lightly together two ounces of butter and an ounce and a half of 
flour in a stewpan, mix on to this half a pint of the fish stock; stir all 
together till it boils, add half a gill of cream, a teaspoonful of essence 
of anchovy and a few drops of Marshall's Liquid Carmine, the juice 
of a lemon ; pass it through the tammy, and use with salmon, soles, &c. 
dressed or otherwise. 

Axidreani Sauce 
Sauce d CAndrSani 

Put in a stewpan four onions that have been fried in two ounces of 
butter without browning, a pinch of salt and a quarter of an ounce of 
Marshall's Coralline Pepper, a pint and a half of good-flavoured white 
stock, the juice of two lemons, and two ounces of glaze ; boil steadily 
till tender, then add to it one ounce of arrowroot mixed with a little 
stock, add a few drops of liquid carmine and two ounces of grated 
Parmesan cheese; stir again till it boils, add a gill of cream ; tammy, 
rewarm and use for dressed calf's head, chicken, &c. 



6 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

Angelic Sauce 
Sauce Anrjelique 

Put four peeled and sliced onions into a stewpan, with enough cold 
water to cover them ; just bring them to the boil, then strain them and 
return to the stewpan, with four washed and finely-chopped fresh white 
mushrooms and a bunch of herbs ; cover with a pint and a half of 
chicken stock, the strained juice of one lemon, and a quarter of a pint of 
mushroom liquor ; boil for one hour, mix in an ounce and a half of fine 
Hour that has been fried without discolouring with the same quantity of 
butter ; stir again till it boils, add a quarter of a pint of cream and a 
pinch of salt ; tammy, and use with cutlets, rabbit, chicken, &c. 

Bechamel Cheese Sauce 
8a/uce Bechamel an Fromage 

Take one pint of boiling creamy Bechamel sauce (vol. i.), four ounces 
of grated Parmesan cheese, a dust of Marshall's Coralline Pepper, the 
strained juice of one lemon ; bring to the boil, then use for chicken, or 
vegetables or meagre dishes. 

Biarritz Sauce 
Sauce Biarritz 

Chop the bones of the bird very fine and put them into a stewpan 
with one ounce of butter, a sliced onion, a bunch of herbs (thyme, bay- 
leaf, parsley), six or eight peppercorns, and a pinch of salt and mignonette 
pepper ; fry these together for about fifteen minutes ; then add one and 
a half to two gills of oyster liquor with some beards if you have any, two 
wineglasses of white wine, and one pint of light stock, a teaspoonful of 
Liebig Company's Extract of Meat ; bring this to the boil, then skim 
and simmer gently for about half an hour ; when boiled mix on to two 
ounces of fine flour that have been fried with two ounces of butter, and 
stir over the fire till it boils, then add the juice of a lemon and a quarter 
of a pint of cream ; tammy, and use with stuffed game or poultry or with 
oyster souffle. 

Capsicum Sauce 

Sauce Piment 

Put into a stewpan two tablespoonfuls of French vinegar, one ounce 
of glaze, two and a half gills of good Brown sauce, two sliced tomatoes, 



OF EXTRA RECIPES SAUCES 7 

a pinch of coralline pepper, the seeds from the capsicums, a dessert- 
spoonful each of French and English mustards, a few drops of liquid 
carmine, a teaspoonful of chutney and a pinch of castor sugar; boil 
all together for fifteen minutes, then tammy, and add three chopped 
cipsicums from which the Beeds have been removed, reboil and use. 



Cardinal Sauce 
Sauce Curd! mil 

Take some good-flavoured light fish stock, and for one pint of it take 
two ounces of good butter and two ounces of fine flour that have been 
fried together without browning ; boil up, keeping it stirred, add a quarter 
of an ounce of pounded live lobster spawn, five or six drops of Marshall's 
Liquid Carmine to make it a good red colour ; add to it a wineglassful 
of white wine, a quarter of a pint of cream and the juice of a lemon ; 
reboil, tammy and use. This is a nice sauce to Berve with salmon, 
turbot, sole, or any fillets of fish. 



Carlsbad Sauce 
Sauce < 'a/rUibad 

Take half a pint of very good Espagnol sauce (vol. i.), a wine- 
glassful of claret, a dessertspoonful of red currant jelly, a dust of 
Marshall's Coralline Pepper, one washed and sliced mushroom, one 
chopped eschalot, the juice of one lemon, a teaspoonful of Liebig 
Company's Extract of Meat, two red French chillies, one ounce of 
grated horseradish, a teaspoonful of French mustard, a few drops of 
Marshall's Liquid Carmine ; boil together for about fifteen minutes, 
tammy, reboil and serve with fillets of beef, &c. 



Champagne Sauce 
Sauce Champagne 

Half a pint of Espagnol sauce (vol. i.), one ounce of glaze, pinch of 
sugar, dust of coralline pepper; reduce to half the quantity, keeping it 
skimmed while boiling, then tammy, and when ready to serve add a 
quarter of a pint of champagne. Serve with hot ham, braised fillet 
of beef, veal, cutlets, &c. 



8 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

Cheese Cream. Sauce 
Sauce Creme de Fromage 

Take four ounces of good Cheddar or Gruyere cheese, cut up into 
very fine slices, put it into a stewpan with a gill and a half of cream, 
a quarter of a pint of Bechamel sauce, and a dust of Marshall's Coralline 
Pepper ; stir these ingredients over the fire until they melt, then use 
at once for croutons, cauliflowers, macaroni, &c. 

Chevet Sauce 
Sauce Chevet 

Take a quarter of a pint of gravy from braised celery, free it from 
fat, and mix with it one pint of Brown sauce (vol. i.), a quarter of a pint 
of sherry, one ounce of Liebig Company's Extract of Meat, a saltspo niful 
of castor sugar ; boil together for about fifteen minutes, keeping skimmed 
while boiling, then add four large tablespoonfuls of celery prepared as 
below, reboil and use. 

Celery Shreds. Take the hearts from two good sticks of celery 
that have been kept in cold water till crisp, cut them into fine Julienne 
shreds, put them into cold water with a little salt, and just bring to 
the boil ; then strain and rinse in cold water, put them in a pan, cover 
with good-flavoured stock, and simmer till quite tedder, adding occa- 
sionally a little more stock if needed ; it is then ready for use for 
poulardes, pheasant, veal, duck, &c. The liquor from the shreds to be 
used for the sauce as above. 

Claudine Sauce 
Sauce Claudine 

Take a gill and a half of Brown sauce (vol. i.), two table- 
spoonfuls of French capers, a pinch of chopped raw parsley, the 
puree of four Christiania anchovies, a teaspoonful of Liebig Company's 
Extract of Meat, and one chopped eschalot, three or four shredded 
button mushrooms ; boil up and simmer for ten minutes, rub through 
the tammy, then add the juice of a lemon and four chopped Spanish 
olives, reboil and serve with fillets of beef, fish, &c. 

Clementine Sauce 

Sauce Clementine 

Put about a pound of white fish bones into a stewpan with a pinch 
of salt, two sliced onions, a bunch of herbs, such as thyme, parsley, 



OF EXTI1A RECIPES SAUCES 9 

bayleaf, six or eight peppercorns, and enough cold water to cover them ; 
add the juice of two lemons, and bring to the boil, skim, and then let 
it simmer gently for about twenty minutes ; put an ounce and a half 
of butter and an ounce and a half of flour into a stew-pan and fry them 
together without discolouring, then mix in two gills and a half of the 
fish stock ; stir till it boils, add one ounce of grated Parmesan cheese, a 
few drops of carmine, a dust of coralline pepper, and half a gill of 
cream; reboil, tammy, and use with boiled fillets of turbot, boiled soles, 
salmon, &c. 

Commodore Sauce 
Take two wineglassfuls of white wine, one large fresh mushroom 

chopped line, one chopped eschalot, two bayleaves. one ounce of glaze, 
a dessertspoonful of anchovy essence, a teaspoonful of French mustard, 
two tomatoes, one large chopped capsicum, one pint of good Brown 
sauce (vol. i.) ; boil together for fifteen minutes, then tammy, colour 
with a few drops of carmine, and use. This is an excellent sauce for 
any fish. 

Conti Sauce 
Sauce Conti 

Put a quarter of a pint of oyster liquor and beards into a stewpan, 
with an ounce of glaze, two sliced raw tomatoes, the juice of one lemon, 
B wineglass of sherry, and the same of white wine, and boil all together 
for about ten minutes. Put into another stewpan two ounces of butter, 
a saltspoonful of Marshall's Coralline Pepper, two finely-chopped French 
chillies, and one ounce of arrowroot ; fry together for about ten minutes 
without browning, and stir in the former mixture with a quarter of a 
pint of good-flavoured mushroom gravy ; boil up the sauce and use 
with salmon, steak, fillets of veal, &c. 

Courte Sauce 
Siiiicr Courte 

Put into a stewpan the juice of one lemon and one orange, four 
tablespoonfuls of good- flavoured Brown sauce (vol. i.), half an ounce of 
glaze, and two finely-chopped eschalots ; bring to the boil, skim, add 
a wineglassful of port wine and claret, and a dust of castor sugar. 
Serve very hot with teal, widgeon, pheasant, or other birds, roast, grilled, 
or braised. 



10 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

Cream Sauce 

Sauce Creme 

Put into a stewpan three raw yolks of eggs, three tablespoonfuls of 
cream, an ounce and a half of good butter, a pinch of salt, a dust of 
Marshall's Coralline Pepper, and the strained juice of one large lemon, 
and stand the pan in a bain-marie ; stir with a wooden spoon until the 
mixture is to the consistency of thick cream, then wring it through 
the tammy and use while quite hot. This sauce is very good to serve 
with soles, chicken, sweetbread, asparagus, artichoke bottoms, &c. 



Cream Sauce with fine Herbs 
Creme Sauce aux fines herbes 

Take four raw yolks of eggs, four large tablespoonfuls of cream ; 
put it into a stewpan with one tablespoonful of thin Bechamel sauce 
(vol. i.), a pinch of salt and Marshall's Coralline Pepper, a tea- 
spoonful of tarragon vinegar ; mix in one ounce of fresh butter by 
degrees (that is, in little pieces), stir in the bain-marie till the sauce 
thickens, taking care that it does not curdle ; tammy it, add a little 
chopped tarragon and chervil and a dessertspoonful of strained lemon 
juice, and use while hot with meats and fish, tendons of veal, calfs 
head, &c. 

Cussy Sauce 
Sauce Cussy 

For four persons put a gill and a half of good Espagnol sauce (vol. i.) 
in a stewpan with one large washed and finely-chopped fresh mushroom, 
one small eschalot, a pinch of chopped parsley, and a teaspoonful of 
French capers ; boil these together for about forty minutes, occasionally 
skimming the sauce while boiling, and then use for serving with game 
or poultry, roast beef or mutton, also with grilled mullet, salmon, &c. 

Czarina Sauce 

Sauce Czarina 

Put a few bones from larks, quails, or other birds into a stewpan 
with half a pint of white wine, a wineglassful of sherry, and two 
finely-chopped eschalots ; boil together for about fifteen minutes, then 
pour off the liquor or wring it through the tammy, add it to three- 



OF EXTRA RECIPES SAUCES 11 

quarters of a pint of Veloute sauce (vol. i.), and eight to ten fresh 
button mushrooms that have been washed and finely chopped ; boil all 
together for fifteen minutes, add half a gill of cream and one or two 
chopped truffles, and use with entrees, sweetbreads, farced birds, such 
as roast pheasant, chickens, &c. 

Egg Sauce 
Sauce (MEufs 

'Take half a pint of Supreme sauce (vol. i.), the strained juice of one 
lemon, and mix with it the hard-boiled yolks of four eggs that have 
been rubbed through a fine wire sieve, then use for serving with roast 
birds. 

Estouffade Sauce 
Savce d VEstoufade 

Take the bones from one or two cleansed partridges, and put them 
into a stewpan with two or three fresh mushrooms, one sliced onion, two 
wineglassfuls of sherry, a dust of Marshall's Coralline Pepper, a pint 
and a half of good-flavoured light stock, and six or eight peppercorns; 
boil for about half an hour, keeping skimmed while boiling, then strain 
and mix three-quarters of a pint of it on to an ounce and a quarter 
of fine Hour (that has been fried without browning witli one ounce of 
butter), the pulp of two large raw ripe tomatoes, one ounce of grated 
Parmesan cheese, the strained juice of a lemon, half an ounce of 
Liebig Company's Extract of Meat, and about six drops of carmine to 
colour; let it boil for about fifteen minutes, keep it skimmed while 
boiling, tammy and use. This is excellent served with bird entrees or 
roasts. 

Pinanciere Sauce 
Sauce TPinariciere 

Put into a stewpan two wineglassfuls of sherry, a dust of Marshall's 
Coralline Pepper, three well-washed fresh mushrooms, and the liquor 
from a bottle of truffles ; reduce to half the quantity, then add three- 
quarters of a pint of good Espagnol sauce (vol. i.). Boil up all 
together, tammy and use for entrees and meats, chickens, &c. as a hot 
sauce. If this sauce is to be used for braised meats, take the liquor 
from the braise, free it from the fat, and add it to the sauce with the 
Espagnol sauce. 



12 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

Geneva Sauce 
Sauce Geneve 

Put into a stewpan two ounces of butter and an ounce and a half 
of fine flour, and fry these together till a nice golden colour ; then 
mix it with two gills of very good-flavoured chicken gravy, a tea- 
spoonful of Liebig Company's Extract of Meat, and a large tablespoon- 
ful of finely grated horseradish ; .stir together till boiling, then add 
a teaspoonful of French mustard, ditto of mixed English, the strained 
juice of two lemons, a gill of cream that is mixed with the raw yolks of 
three eggs, a pinch of salt and a dust of castor sugar and a saltspoonful of 
apricot yellow ; stir over the fire until the mixture thickens, then rub all 
through the tammy and stir again in the bain-marie till the sauce is hot ; 
add a wineglassful of sherry and serve with sauted fillets of beef and 
with braised or roast beef. 

Gircmde Sauce 
Si i uce Gircmde 

Reduce one pint of claret to half the quantity, add one pint of bruised 
cherries and one pint of Brown sauce (vol. i.), half an ounce of glaze 
and a little carmine, two tomatoes cut up finely, the juice of half a 
lemon, a saltspoon of castor sugar, and half an ounce of arrowroot that 
is mixed with a little claret. Boil for about half an hour, keep skimmed 
while boiling ; tammy, and boil it up again with the kernels from the 
fruit, add a teaspoonful of Kirsch, and use for game or poultry, fillets of 
veal, mutton cutlets, venison, &c. 

Good Man Sauce 
Bon Homme Sauce 

Take one tablespoonful of strained lemon juice, two tablespoonfuls of 
mushroom liquor, four ounces of grated Gruyere or Cheddar cheese, a 
teaspoonful of French mustard, the same of English mustard, one gill 
and a half of tomato sauce, half a wineglassful of sherry, and six 
Christiania anchovies rubbed through a sieve ; stir all together over 
the fire till boiling and quite smooth, and use for any kind of fish, 
steak, &c. 

Green Sauce 
Sauce Verte 

Take a handful of parsley, put it in cold water with a pinch of 
salt and a tiny bit of soda, and let it come to the boil ; strain it off 



OF EXTRA RECIPES SAUCES 13 

and press the water from it ; mix it with an ounce of butter and a little 
apple green ; rub it through a hair sieve or tammy, then add to it a 
pint of Veloute sauce (vol. i.) ; add the strained juice of a lemon, and 
use for calf s head, rabbit, &c. 

Hubert Sauce 
Sauce Hubert 

Put in a stewpan the chopped bones from any birds, such as 
pheasant, partridge, grouse, a few strips of celery, two sliced onions, a 
bunch of herbs, the peels and stalks of a lew fresh mushrooms, a wine- 
glass of sherry and white wine, the juice of a lemon, and enough cold 
water to cover; bring to the boil, skim and simmer for half an hour ; 
strain and mix three-quarters of a pint of this gravy int<> two ounces of 
butter and an ounce and a half of tine Hour that has been fried with- 
out discolouring; stir together till boiling, then tammy and mix with a 
gill of whipped cream, and just before serving add a teaspoont'ul of 
chopped truffle. []>{> with game entrees. 



Imperial Sauce 
Sauce Tmperiale 

Take the cleansed bones of the birds, and put them into a stewpan 
with a quarter of a pint of liquor from a braise that has been freed from 
fat, a wineglass ofporl wine, a wineglass of claret . a wineglass of sherry, 
an ounce of glaze, half a pint of thick Brown sauce (vol. i.), a dessert- 
spoonful of red currant jelly, two bavleaves and the strained juice of one 
lemon, a few drops of Marshall's Liquid Carmine; boil this all together 
for about lift ecu minutes, during which time keep it well skimmed, then 
take out the bones (which can be iised up in a general stock-pot), wring 
the sauce through the tammy, and use when quite hot for cutlets of 
pigeons, roast birds, cutlets of venison, &c. 



Julienne Sauce 
Sauce Julienne 

Put into a stewpan a dessertspoonful of oil, two ounces of chopped raw 
lean bacon, three fresh mushrooms, a bunch of herbs, a pinch of mignon- 
ette pepper; fry for fifteen minutes, shaking it about; then add one 
wineglassful of port wine, one of claret, one of sherry, six Christian ia 
anchovies, a pint of Brown sauce, one ounce of glaze, boil till reduced to 



14 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

half the quantity, keep it well skimmed ; then tammy and add three- 
French gherkins and three red chillies freed from pips and shredded, 
and serve with fish, grilled or broiled, or steaks, hare, venison and roast 
pork. 



Laver Sauce 
Sauce haver 

Put into a stewpan the strained juice of two lemons, a table spoonful 
of red currant jelly, one ounce of good glaze, a pinch of castor sugar, 
and four tablespoonfuls of good thick Brown sauce (vol. i.) ; boil 
these together for about ten minutes, during which time keep the scum 
removed, then mix with half a pint of laver, boil up again, tammy, re- 
warm, and use, either with roast lamb, mutton, or venison. 



Lobster Cream 
Creme de Homard 

Fry two ounces of fine flour with two ounces of butter without dis- 
colouring, then mix it with half a pint of good-flavoured fish stock, 
stir together till it boils, then add one ounce of pounded live spawn, a 
dessertspoonful of anchovy essence, the strained juice of one lemon, and 
a dust of coralline pepper, and wring through a clean tammy cloth; 
then add to it half a cooked lobster that is cut into small pieces, and 
half a gill of cream ; warm up in the bain-marie, and use for masking 
any hot fish. 

Lucine Sauce 
Sauce Lucine 

Put the cleansed bones from any birds into a stewpan, with two 
chopped eschalots, one tablespoonful of salad oil, a bunch of herbs, one 
or two fresh mushrooms, a pinch of mignonette pepper, two raw 
tomatoes, and a little bacon bone ; fry all together for twenty minutes, 
then add a wineglass of sherry, one ounce of glaze, a pint of Brown 
sauce (vol. i.), one ounce and a half of grated Parmesan cheese, two 
chopped capsicums and a dust of Marshall's Coralline Pepper ; boil for 
twenty to thirty minutes, keeping well skimmed while boiling ; remove 
the bones, rub through the tammy, rewarm, and use with roast or 
dressed birds. 



OF EXTRA RECIPES SAUCES 15 

Magenta Sauce 
Sauce Magenta 

Take the bones and skin from any birds, chop them up and put 
them into a buttered saute pan with two or three fresh mushrooms, two- 
sliced tomatoes, a bunch of herbs (such as thyme, parsley and bayleaf), 
a piece of bacon bone, and a pinch of mignonette pepper; place the 
cover on the pan, and fry the contents for about fifteen minutes, then 
add a wineglassful of sherry , a teaspoonful of Liebig Company's Extract 
of Meat, one pint of good Brown sauce (vol. i.), and a few drops of Mar- 
shall's Liquid Carmine ; bring to the boil, reduce a quarter part, keep well 
skimmed while boiling, thru remove the bones, pass the sauce through 
a tammy, add a little raw chopped parsley or truffle, and use with roasl 
or braised birds, &c. 

Marinade Sauce 
Sauce Marinade 

Put one ounce of butter with one ounce of flour into a stewpan 
and fry without browning, then mix with three-quarters of a pint of 
good-flavoured fish stock, two or three fresh mushrooms that are chopped 
fine, and one or two eschalots, a good dust of coralline pepper, and two 
or three chopped Christiania anchovies ; boil all together for about fifteen 
minutes, then add a tablespoonful of French tarragon vinegar, one 
tablespoonful of warm glaze, a dessertspoonful of anchovy essence, and 
one tablespoonful of lemon juice ; tammy, and use with any kind of grilled, 
broiled, or boiled fish. 

Marseilles Sauce 
Sauce Marseillaise 

Put into a stewpan one ounce of glaze, one gill of white wine, half 
a pint of Tomato sauce (vol. i.), one tablespoonful of strained lemon juice, 
a good dust of coralline pepper, one or two mushrooms that are washed 
and chopped fine, and three boned and chopped Christiania anchovies ; 
boil all together for fifteen minutes, keeping it well skimmed ; then add 
a dessertspoonful of French mustard, a teaspoonful of English mustard, 
and a teaspoonful of chopped chutney. Do not let it boil after the 
mustard is added. Use for any kind of grilled or boiled fish, game, or 
poultry or pork. 



16 MBS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

i 

Mecklenburg Sauce 

Sauce Mecklmbourg 

Put into a saucepan half a pint of thick rich Brown sauce (vol. i.), 
one ounce of glaze, the bones from some bird (such as pheasant) cooked or 
raw, and one or two fresh mushrooms ; boil together for fifteen to twenty 
minutes, keeping it well skimmed while boiling, then tammy, add three 
or four sliced truffles and button mushrooms, and a wineglass of cham- 
pagne. Serve with meats or game or poultry. 

Moltke Sauce 
Sauce Mnlthr 

Fry two large peeled and finely sliced onions in one ounce of butter, 
with one ounce of lean ham, or bacon, a bunch of herbs (thyme, 
parsley, bayleaf), two capsicums, and a dust of coralline pepper, for 
about twenty minutes ; then add two wineglassfuls of cooking sherry, 
one ounce of glaze, three sliced tomatoes, and one pint of Veloute sauce 
(vol. i.). Simmer together for about half an hour, colour with a few 
drops of Marshall's Carmine, keep skimmed while boiling, tammy, re- 
warm in the bain-marie and use with cutlets, sweetbread, braised 
meats, &c. 

Monico Sauce 
Sauce Mi in ico 

Chop up the bone and head from a sole and put it in a stewpan with 
enough cold water to cover them ; add a wineglassful of white wine 
and a wineglass of sherry, one sliced onion, a bunch of herbs, four 
black peppercorns and a pinch of salt, and cook on the side of the 
stove for about fifteen minutes ; fry together one ounce and three- 
quarters of butter and the same of flour till a pale golden colour ; add 
half a pint of the stock, stir over the fire till it boils, mix in a gill of 
cream, boil up and tammy, and add a tablespoonful of chopped button 
mushrooms, and use with any fillets of fish. 

Montansier Sauce 
Sauce Morvta/nsi&r 

Take a good handful of raw game bones, put them into a stewpan 
with a little bit of raw bacon bone, half an ounce of butter, two chopped 
eschalots, a bunch of herbs (bayleaf, thyme, parsley), a dozen pepper- 



OF EXTRA RECIPES SAUCES 17 

corns, and a pinch of Marshall's Coralline Pepper ; fry together for 
about fifteen minutes with the pan covered down, then add a wine- 
glassful of sherry, a teaspoonful of the Liebig Company's Extract of 
Meat, one pint of Brown sauce (vol. i.), four boned Christiania anchovies, 
and a quarter of a pint of oyster beards or liquor ; boil gently for twenty 
minutes, then remove the bones and any fat, and rub the remains 
through the tammy, then rewarm in the bain-marie, and use with farced 
or plainly roast pheasant, partridge, chicken, grouse &c. 



Green Mousseline Sauce 
Sauce Mousseline Verts 

Take one large capsicum, two French gherkins, six boned anchovies, 
a teaspoonful of French capers, a handful of blanched tarragon and 
chervil, one eschalot, a sprig or two of parsley, a saltspoonful of 
Marshall's Apple Green, pound all together, tammy it, put the puree 
into the bain-marie with live raw yolks of eggs, an ounce and a half 
of fresh butter, two whites of eggs, a dust of cayenne pepper, a pinch 
of salt, the strained juice of a lemon ; whip over boiling water till 
thick, and serve with any kind of fish such as salmon, trout, mullet, or 
with asparagus, globe artichokes &c. 

Oyster Mousseline Sauce 
Sauce Mousseline auso Huitres 

Put into a stewpan a pinch of Marshall's Coralline Pepper, four raw 
yolks of eggs, two tablespoonfuls of Veloute sauce (vol. i.), four 
whites of eggs, a pinch of salt, a quarter of a pint of strained oyster 
liquor, and a tablespoonful of warm glaze ; whip over boiling watertill 
the mixture is hot and spongy ; then add eighteen to twenty-four sauce 
oysters that have been bearded and cut into little dice shapes, and use 
for serving with turkey, chickens, veal, sweetbreads, fish, such as 
turbot &c. 

Moville Sauce 
Sauce Moville 

Put a quarter of a pint of mushroom liquor into a stewpan with an 
ounce of glaze, a wineglassful of sherry, a pinch of castor sugar, three 
tomatoes, one finely chopped eschalot, and two gills of thick Veloute 
sauce (vol. i.). Boil all together to a pulp, add a few drops of liquid 
carmine, tammy and use with fillets of beef, cutlets &c. 

c 



18 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

Brown Mushroom Sauce 

Sauce aux Chamjpigywris 

Take three-quarters of a pint of thick Brown sauce (vol. i.), one ounce 
of glaze, two wineglasses of sherry, and a handful of fresh mushrooms 
that have first been washed and pressed from the water ; boil down to 
half the quantity, keeping it well skimmed while boiling, then tammy 
and mix in the contents of a quarter-pint tin of button mushrooms 
that have been finely sliced, reboil and serve with grilled steak, pheasant, 
roast or boiled chicken &c. 

"White Mushroom Sauce 
Sauce Blanche aux Champignons 

Put half a pound of well-washed white fresh button mushrooms, with 
their peels and stalks (or preserved button ones), chop them fine and 
put them in a saucepan with a quart of good-flavoured white stock, such 
as chicken, veal, or rabbit, the strained juice of one lemon, a pinch of 
salt; simmer gently on the stove for about half an hour, keeping 
skimmed ; stir one pint of the liquor on to two ounces of butter and the 
same of fine flour that have been fried together without browning, until 
it reboils, then add a pinch of salt, a half wineglassful of sherry, and a gill 
of thick cream. Stir again till boiling, and use for entrees of meat, such 
as sweetbread, cutlets of chicken, boiled chicken, rabbit, pheasant &c. 

Nabob Sauce 
Sauce Nabob 

Cut up two small onions in slices, and put them in a stewpan to fry 
with" one ounce of butter till a good golden colour ; then add one 
sliced onion and an apple, the juice of one lemon, a bunch of herbs, one 
dessertspoonful of tamarinds and half a saltspoonful of turmeric powder, 
a saltspoonful of ginger, four red peppers, a saltspoonful and a half 
of cumin powder, one tablespoonful of chutney, one dessertspoonful of 
Marshall's Creme de Biz, two sliced tomatoes, two tablespoonfuls of grated 
cocoanut, a quarter of a pint of cocoanut milk, and two figs ; mix with 
half a pint of Tomato sauce (vol. i.) and half a pint of good stock. Boil 
all together for about half an hour, then add half a gill of cream and 
pass through the tammy, warm in the bain-marie and add one table- 
spoonful of cooked carrot, the same of turnip, three or four green capsicums 
freed from pips and all cut into little dice shapes, and the juice of two 
lemons. Serve with roast mutton, braised meats, poularde, pheasant, &c. 



OF EXTRA RECIPES SAUCES 19 

Napier Sauce 
Sauce Napier 

Put the bones and skin from soles into a stewpan with two sliced 
onions, a bunch of herbs, six peppercorns, a little salt, the juice of one 
lemon, half a pint of white wine and enough water to cover the bones ; 
let this simmer gently for about half an hour, then strain off the liquor 
and mix three-quarters of a pint of it on to two ounces of sifted flour 
and the same of butter that have been fried together without dis- 
colouring, and stir over the fire till it boils ; then add half a pint of 
cleansed cooked mussels, a teaspoonful of mixed English mustard, and 
strain into it a quarter of a pint of cream that is mixed with the raw 
yolks of two eggs ; stir again over the fire till it thickens, but do not let 
it boil, tammy and use with fillets of soles &c. 

Napoleon Sauce 
Sauce NapoUon 

Take the liquor from the braising of meat, free it from fat and mix 
with it the liquor from a tin of button mushrooms and half a pint of 
champagne ; stir it on to two ounces of butter that have been fried with 
an ounce of arrowroot without browning; stir it over the fire till it boils; 
add to it a wineglassful of sherry, the pulp of two large raw ripe toma- 
toes, a few drops of liquid carmine, and a dust of Marshall's Coralline 
Pepper; tammy, reboil, and use for any braised meat or poultry. 

Nesle Sauce 
Sauce Nesle 

Take one ounce of glaze, half a pint of Brown sauce (vol. i.), two 
tablespoonfuls of white wine and the same of sherry, a teaspoonful of 
French mustard, a dessertspoonful of chopped chutney, two finely chopped 
eschalots, two washed and finely chopped mushrooms ; boil all together 
for about fifteen minutes, add a teaspoonful of chopped parsley and use 
with roast meats or poultry. 

Orange Sauce 
Sauce a" Oranges 

Put into a stewpan a gill and a half of thick Brown sauce, one ounce 
of glaze, a dust of Marshall's Coralline Pepper, the strained juice of a 
lemon, a pinch of castor sugar, the strained juice of three oranges, boil 



20 MRS. A. 13. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

all together, then thicken with half an ounce of arrowroot that has been 
mixed with a wineglassful of sherry j stir till the sauce reboils, then 
pass through a tammy cloth. Cut the quarters from two oranges into 
fine slices, free them from pith and pips and add to the sauce; make 
quite hot in the bain-marie ; take the peel of an orange that is freed 
from pith and cut into Julienne strips, put into cold water with a pinch 
of salt and bring to the boil, then strain and rinse in hot water, and 
add to the sauce. Serve with wild duck, teal, turkey, braised ham &c. 

Polignac Sauce 
Sauce Polignac 

Put into a stewpan the bones and odds and ends from eels or other 
fish, the beards and liquor from about eight oysters, a bunch of herbs, 
six or eight peppercorns, four or five cloves, two sliced onions, a gill and a 
half of fish stock, the juice of two lemons, a teaspoonful of French mustard, 
three sliced tomatoes, and eight Kruger's appetit sild ; cover with water 
and simmer all together for about half an hour ; then remove the bones, 
and for three-quarters of a pint of the liquor mix into it an ounce and a 
half of butter and an ounce and a half of Marshall's Creme de Riz ; stir till 
it boils, add a gill of white wine and a few drops of carmine, a quarter of 
an ounce of live lobster spawn, and a teaspoonful of anchovy essence ; 
tammy and make quite hot in the bain-marie and use with dressed or 
plain fish. 

Polonaise Sauce 
Sauce Polonaise 

Put three-quarters of a pint of good thick Espagnol sauce (vol. i.)into 
a stewpan with two chopped eschalots, an ounce of glaze, four finely 
chopped, well-washed, fresh mushrooms, and half a pint of champagne ; 
boil all together quickly for about a quarter of an hour, keeping well 
skimmed while boiling ; when quite thick, tammy it, and add a quarter of 
a pint of cooked asparagus points (vol. i.) and six or seven cooked and 
sliced artichoke bottoms ; just boil up again and serve in a sauce-boat 
with ham, ox tongue, braised beef, venison &c. 

Raguse Sauce 

Sauce Raguse 

Take the bones from raw hare, chop them up finely and put them 
into a stewpan with two or three green capsicums, a bunch of herbs 



OF EXTRA RECIPES SAUCES 21 

(basil, marjoram, bayleaf, thyme and parsley), and one ounce of butter ; 
fry with the cover on the pan for about fifteen minutes, then add two 
raw fresh mushrooms or a few peels of the same,, two ounces of lean raw 
ham, a dessertspoonful of red currant jelly, a teaspoonful of Liebig 
Company's Extract of Meat, half a pint of claret, a quarter of a pint of 
mushroom ketchup and a pint and a half of brown stock ; let these 
simmer together on the side of the stove for about half an hour, keeping 
well skimmed while boiling, then strain off the liquor ; mix together in 
another stewpan one ounce of butter and an ounce and a half of arrow- 
root, then add a pint of the liquor from the bones, stir till it boils again, 
tammy and use after adding a few drops of liquid carmine ; serve with 
hare either roast or braised, or with entrees. The bones can be reboiled 
and will make good gravy stock. 

Red Sauce 
S<nice llouge 

Put the bones of a lobster in enough light fish stock to cover them, with 
two wineglasses of white wine, one sliced onion, eight or nine pepper- 
corns, a bunch of herbs; when the stock comes to fche boil skim if and 
boil for half an hour; put two ounces of butter and two ounces of flour 
to fry together till a pale golden colour; add three-quarters of a pint 
of stock from the bones, and a quarter of a pint of cream; stir till 
it boils, reduce a quarter part, then add a little pounded live lobster 
spawn (if you have no spawn use a little carmine), and reboil, add 
the juice of a lemon, tammy, add a little coralline pepper, rewarm in 
the bain-marie and use for lobster or salmon creams or cutlets. 

Reform Sauce 
Sauce Reforme 

Put into a stewpan one ounce of glaze, one wineglassful of claret and 
one of port, tln-ee-quarters of a pint of Brown sauce (vol. i.), the juice 
of a lemon, a pinch of castor sugar and one large tablespoonful of red 
currant jelly; boil and keep skimmed till reduced a quarter part, then 
tammy and use for meats, venison, beef, roast or braised birds, cutlets Sec. 

Reyniere Sauce 

Sauce Reyniere 

Chop up the bones from any birds and put them in a stewpan with 
two chopped fresh mushrooms, a bunch of herbs such as thyme, parsley. 



22 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK. 

bayleaf, a wineglassful of sherry, one ounce of glaze, a pint of Brown 
sauce (vol. i.), a quarter of a pint of liquor from the cooking of birds, 
boil for twenty minutes, remove the bones, then tammy and add two or 
three finely chopped truffles and the liquor from a bottle of the same,, 
and six or eight drops of carmine ; make hot in the bain-marie and use 
with farced or roast birds, timbals of larks &c. 

Riche Sauce 
Sauce Riche 

Take the bones and skin from some salmon or other fish, the liquor 
and beards from twelve oysters, two peeled sliced onions, a bunch of 
herbs (thyme, parsley, bayleaf), six or eight peppercorns and two or 
three cloves ; cover with water, add the strained juice of a lemon, a wine- 
glassful of white wine, a wineglassful of claret, one or two fresh mushrooms, 
a pinch of salt, and six Kriiger's appetit sild; boil for about half an hour, 
then strain and mix three-quarters of a pint of it on to two ounces of butter 
and an ounce of arrowroot that have been mixed together ; stir over the 
fire till it boils, add a few drops of Marshall's Liquid Carmine, and the 
pulp of two large tomatoes ; tammy and use for cutlets of fish, fillets &c. 

Richelieu Sauce 
Sauce Richelieu 

Put into a stewpan an ounce and a half of butter and the same of 
fine flour, and fry together without browning, then mix with three- 
quarters of a pint of liquor from shell fish (oysters &c.) ; stir together 
till it boils, add the juice of a lemon and a teaspoonful of Liebig Com- 
pany's Extract of Meat ; tammy and add the puree of five or six large 
tomatoes which have been passed through a hair sieve, rewarm in the 
bain-marie and use with fillets of any fish, boiled salmon &c. 

Rubanee Sauce 

Sauce Rubanee 

Take a wineglassful of sherry, the same of port wine, six Christiania 
anchovies rubbed through a sieve, one teaspoonful of Liebig Company's 
Extract of Meat, two fresh mushrooms, two chopped capsicums, two raw 
tomatoes, the juice of a lemon, a dust of Marshall's Coralline Pepper 
and one pint of thick Brown sauce (vol. i.) ; reduce a quarter part, keep 
skimmed while boiling, tammy, add six drops of carmine and use for 
entrees of birds, meats &c. 



OF EXTRA RECIPES SAUCES 23 

Sardou Sauce 
Sauce Sardou 

Put a pint of oyster liquor and beards into a stewpan with two sliced 
onions, a quarter of a pint of white wine, half a pint of good-flavoured 
brown gravy, a bunch of herbs, four peppercorns, and half a blade of mace ; 
boil these steadily for a quarter of an hour, then take out the spice and 
herbs and mix the liquor on to one ounce of butter and the same of flour, 
that have been fried till a nice brown colour, stir over the fire till it boils, 
mix with it half a pint of good Brown sauce (vol. i.), one ounce of 
glaze, one or two sliced tomatoes and one or two fresh sliced mush- 
rooms ; let it continue boiling for about fifteen minutes, keeping it well 
skimmed, then rub through the tammy, mix with it two or three sliced 
truffles, make hot in the bain-marie and use for fillets of bird, cutlets &c. 



Thick Soubise Sauce 
Sauce Soubise JAee 

Put six large pei'lrd and sliced onions into a stewpan with a little 
salt and sufficient cold water to cover them, bring this to the boil, then 
strain and rinse, put them into another pan and boil again with a pint 
of milk till the mixture is quite a pulp, then tammy and add the puree 
to one pint of thick Bechamel sauce (vol. i.); season with a little salt 
and Marshall's Coralline Pepper, mix in four raw yolks of eggs and the 
strained juice of a lemon ; stir over the fire till it thickens, but do not let 
it boil, then use for masking meats &c. 



Vienna Sauce 
Sauce Viennoise 

Fry together in a stewpan for about twenty minutes two eschalots 
cut up fine, a tablespoonful of salad oil, a little thyme, one or two bay- 
leaves, two red French chillies, a pinch of mignonette pepper, two 
tomatoes sliced and two fresh mushrooms sliced ; then add a dessert- 
spoonful of red currant jelly, the juice of one lemon, three-quarters of a 
pint of Brown sauce (vol. i.) and a wineglass of port wine ; reduce this 
a quarter part, keep it skimmed, then tammy and boil up, and use hot 
for marinaded cutlets, meats, such as roast venison, mutton, hare &c. 



24 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

Wellington Sauce 
Sauce WeUmgton 

Slice one or two peeled onions and put them in a Btewpan with an 
ounce of butter, fry them till a nice golden colour, then add a table- 
spoonful of French vinegar, two sliced tomatoes, three boned and pounded 
Christiania anchovies, a teaspoonful of French mustard, a gill and a half 
of Brown sauce (vol. i.), and a quarter of a pint of good gravy; boil to- 
gether for about twenty minutes, then rub through a tammy, rewarm in 
the bain-marie, add a few drops of liquid carmine and use with fish or 
steak &c. 

White Wine Sauce 
Sauce Yin Blanc 

Put the chopped-up bones and skin from the fish into a Btewpan with 
two peeled and sliced onions, six peppercorns, a bunch of herbs (bayleaf, 
thyme, parsley), a pinch of salt, half a pint of any light fish stock, and 
half a pint of white wine ; bring to the boil, then simmer gently for half 
an hour; strain, and mix on to an ounce and a half of flour and two 
ounces of butter that have been fried together without discolouring; stir 
till it boils, then add a gill of cream and a tablespoonful of lemon juice, 
and pass through the tammy and use for fish creams, boiled sole &c. 

Xerxes Sauce 

Si in a' Xerxes 

Take half a pint of boiling Espagnol sauce (vol. i.), skim it well, add 
to it some nice slices (allowing one to each person) of beef marrow that 
is blanched and cut about a quarter of an inch thick, half a tin of finely 
sliced button mushrooms, a quarter of a pint of gravy from the meat with 
which it is to be served and the strained juice of a lemon, and serve with 
braised ham, tongue, beef or poultry. 



OF EXTRA RECIPES SAUCES 25 



COLD SAUCES 

Albany Sauce 
Sauce Albany 

Take six Christ iania anchovies, free them from bone, and rub them 
through a hair sieve; mix with a quarter of a pint of thick Mayonnaise 
sauce (see vol. i.), a tablespoonful of tarragon vinegar, a good pinch of 
Marshall's Coralline Pepper, the strained juice of a lemon, a pinch of 
castor sugar, a quarter of a pint of whipped cream and a few drops of 
carmine, two chopped gherkins, a quarter of a pint of chopped picked 
shrimps; mix together and ase with fish, dressed lobster, crab &c. 

Crab Sauce 
Sauce Orabe 

Cook a nice small fresh crab fur half an hour in slightly salted 
boiling water, then take it up and set it aside till cold; remove the meat 
from the claw-bones and pull it into little shreds ; take the creamy part 
from the body, and pound it with six boned Christ iania anchovies, and 
rub through a wire sieve; put into a basin a quarter of a pint of thick 
.Mayonnaise sauce, the pulp from two raw ripe tomatoes (that have 1 been 
rubbed through a hair sieve), a tablespoonful of tarragon vinegar, a 
dust of coralline pepper, a good pinch of finely chopped tarragon 
and chervil, a saltspoonful of mixed English mustard, and the same of 
French mustard; add the puree from the crab, and three tablespoonfuls 
of the shreds from the claw ; colour with a few drops of Marshall's 
Liquid Carmine, add half a gill of liquid aspic, and one gill of stiffly 
whipped cream ; mix well together with a whisk, then add a quarter of a 
pint of double cream, set on ice till wanted. Serve with hot or cold fish 
salmon, cod, turbot &c. or with cold roast or boiled fowl or turkey. 

Gorgona Sauce 
Sauce Gorgona 

Have six Gorgona anchovies well washed in cold water, and then 
bone them and chop them up finely with one eschalot, two French 
gherkins, and a pinch of coralline pepper ; mix these in a basin with 
the raw yolk of an egg : a tablespoonful of salad oil, a teaspoonful of 
parsley or fennel chopped fine, a dessertspoonful of tarragon vinegar and 



26 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

the pulp of two tomatoes which have been rubbed through a sieve ; keep 
in a cool place till wanted. This is an excellent sauce to serve with 
boiled or grilled salmon, trout, mullet &c. 



Cold Lobster Sauce 
Sauce de Homard Froide 

Take a quarter of a pint of Lobster sauce (vol. i.), and flavour with 
a good dust of coralline pepper ; set aside till cool, then add a quarter 
of a pint of stiffly whipped cream, two tablespoonfuls of thick Mayon- 
naise sauce (vol. i.), the puree from six Christiania anchovies, the cream 
from the head of a cooked lobster rubbed through a hair sieve, the meat 
from the lobster cut up into little dice, and a tablespoonful of tarragon 
vinegar. If needed add a few drops of liquid carmine to colour, and 
then serve with any cold fish such as salmon, trout, soles &c. 



Cold Mousseline Sauce (Savoury) 
Sauce Mousseline Froide 

Whip a quarter of a pint of aspic jelly till quite stiff and spongy ; 
mix it with a quarter of a pint of thick Mayonnaise sauce, a quarter of a 
pint of whipped cream, a dust of cayenne pepper, a dessertspoonful of 
tarragon vinegar, a pinch of castor sugar ; stir all together, and when ice- 
cold serve with asparagus or globe artichokes, salmon or any kind of 
cold fish. 

Green Mousseline Sauce 

Sauce Mouseline Verte 

Take half a pint of Mayonnaise sauce (vol. i.) and add the puree 
prepared as follows : put a handful of mixed tarragon, chervil and parsley 
with one eschalot, a little fennel, and a pinch of salt and soda in cold 
water in a saucepan and bring to the boil, then strain off and pound 
with a teaspoonful of capers, three gherkins, four filleted Christiania 
anchovies, one hard-boiled yolk of egg, a little apple green, a tiny dust of 
coralline pepper, and a tablespoonful of salad oil ; then pass through 
a tammy cloth, add a tablespoonful of tarragon vinegar and half a 
gill of stiffly whipped cream that has been mixed with half a gill of 
stiffly whipped aspic jelly ; stir all together and serve with hot or cold 
fish. 



OF EXTRA RECIPES SAUCES 27 

Suedoise Sauce 

Sauce Suedoise 

Take half a pint of very stiff Mayonnaise sauce (vol. i.) and mix 
into it two tablespoonfuls of finely grated horseradish, two tablespoon- 
fuls of fresh-peeled cucumber chopped fine, one finely chopped eschalot, 
a teaspoonful of chopped capers, and one ounce of chopped lax ; then add 
a quarter of a pint of stiffly whipped cream, and put aside on ice till 
wanted. Serve with hot or cold fish, either grilled or boiled, artichokes, 
asparagus &c. 

Tomato Cream Sauce 

Sauce Creme de Tomate* 

Take four ripe tomatoes, pound them till smooth, then mix with 
half a gill of aspic jelly, a few drops of carmine, a dust of coralline 
pepper, and a little salt; rub through a tammy, then mix with a gill 
of stiffly whipped cream, a dessertspoonful of tarragon vinegar, a 
teaspoonful of chopped capers, one finely chopped eschalot, a little 
green tarragon and chervil, two French red chillies, and a tablespoonful 
of grated horse-radish, six Christiania anchovies boned and rubbed 
through a sieve ; mix up and set on ice till wanted. This sauce may 
be served with cold salmon or other fish, or with cold chicken, pheasant,, 
or turkey, asparagus, artichokes &c. 

Cold Tomato Pur^e 

I'/iree de Tomates Froide 

Pound three large ripe tomatoes, and season with a little salt, a dust 
of coralline pepper, a few drops of carmine, one tablespoonful of salad 
oil, a dessertspoonful of tarragon vinegar, and a few drops of chilli 
vinegar ; rub this through the tammy, and mix with it two tablespoon- 
fuls of liquid aspic jelly, and a little chopped tarragon and chervil ; keep- 
on ice until wanted, then use for pouring round, or serving in sauce- 
boats with meats, fish, fowl, vegetables &c. 



28 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 



HOT SWEET SAUCES 

Albert Sauce 
Sauce Albert 

Put into a stewpan one wineglassful of brandy, the strained juice of 
two lemons, half a pint of water, as much ground ginger as will cover a 
threepenny piece, a wineglassful of maraschino syrup or liqueur, the peel 
of one lemon, an ounce and a half of castor sugar, and a wineglassful of 
rose water, in which is mixed a quarter of an ounce of Marshall's Creme 
de Riz ; boil these ingredients for ten minutes, keeping occasionally 
stirred ; then mix it on to four raw yolks of eggs that have been stirred 
till smooth in a basin, return it to a stewpan in the bain-marie, and 
continue stirring till it thickens ; it is then ready for use with puddings, 
hot cakes &c. that are used as dinner or luncheon sweets. 



Yellow Apricot Sauce 
Sauce iVAbricots Jaune 

Take a pot of apricot jam and put it into a stewpan with the 
finely chopped peel of one lemon, two ounces of castor sugar, one gill 
and a half of water, a saltspoonful of Marshall's Apricot Yellow, and 
boil up together. Put into a basin one ounce of Marshall's Creme de Riz 
with half a gill of cold water, mix it into a smooth paste, and add 
to the apricot ; reboil and simmer for about ten minutes, then rub all 
through a hair sieve, return it to the stewpan and make it hot ; mix in 
a wineglass of Maraschino syrup or liqueur and use for paddings. 



Arrowroot Sauce 
Sauce Arrowroot 

Put into a stewpan the peel of one lemon and one orange finely 
chopped and the strained juices, half a pint of water, two ounces of 
castor sugar, a piece of cinnamon about one inch long crushed up small ; 
bring to the boil, then simmer for about five minutes, then add to it 
ialf an ounce of the best arrowroot that has been mixed up till quite 
smooth with a gill of water ; stir together till boiling, then simmer for 
three to five minutes till the arrowroot is cooked, and wring through a 
clean tammy. Rewarm in the bain-marie, flavour with a wineglass of 



OF EXTRA RECIPES SAUCES 29 

Maraschino or Noyeau liqueur, or, if liked, a wineglass of orange-flower 
water can be used instead, and the sauce may be coloured, if liked, 
with carmine. Use with hot puddings &c. 



Banana Sauce 
Sauce Bananes 

Take four ripe bananas, remove the skins and pound the fruit, then 
mix it with the pulp of three oranges, one large or two small good 
cooking apples sliced, two ounces castor sugar, the peel of one lemon, 
and two bayleaves, add two gills of water, and boil together for about 
fifteen minutes ; mix with a dessertspoonful of Marshall's Creme de Riz 
that has been mixed with half a gill of water, colour with a saltspoonful 
of apricot yellow, and a few drops of carmine, add a wineglass of 
Marshall's Xoycau Syrup, rub through a tammy, rewarm, and mix with 
it a few blanched and shredded pistachio nuts, and use with hot puddings, 
cakes &c. 

Vanilla Chocolate Sauce 
Sauce Chocolat Vanille 

Put into a stewpan three-quarters of a pint of water, two ounces of 
icing sugar, and five ounces of Fry's Ceylon Chocolate finely cut; bring 
to the boil, and simmer for about five minutes ; then add to it one ounce 
of Marshall's Creme de Riz that has been mixed with a quarter of a pint 
of cold water, stir all together till the mixture reboils, simmer for three 
or four minutes, then if not quite smooth wring through the tammy, 
re warm, and add a teaspoonful of vanilla essence and a tablespoonful 
of brandy. Use for hot or cold puddings. 



Greengage Sauce 

Sauce Reine-Claude 

Put four large teaspoonfuls of greengage jam in a stewpan with a 
gill of water and two ounces of loaf sugar, and boil up together with 
the juice of one lemon, then add to it one ounce of Marshall's Creme 
de Riz that has been mixed with a gill and a half of cold water, and let 
it simmer for about ten minutes ; then rub through a fine sieve or 
tammy, add a wineglass of Kirsch liqueur or syrup, and a few drops of 
sap green or carmine, re warm and use. 



-30 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

Marmalade Sauce 
Sauce Harmelade 

Mix the contents of a pot of orange marmalade with the pulp and 
peel of three fresh oranges and of one lemon, add half an ounce of 
arrowroot that is mixed with the orange juice till smooth, mix into it 
two wineglasses of Marshall's Maraschino Syrup, and stir till it boils, 
then simmer for five minutes and rub through a tammy, and just before 
using add a wineglass of brandy. Use with hot puddings &c. 

Mousse Sauce 
Sauce Mousse 

Put into a bain-marie pan three ounces of castor sugar, a few drops 
of carmine, a teaspoonful of vanilla essence, six raw yolks and two 
whites of eggs, and a wineglass of brandy, half a wineglass of strained 
lemon juice; whip these ingredients over boiling water till thick 
.as cream and perfectly spongy, then use at once for hot puddings, 
.souffles &c. 

Hot Mousseline Sauce (Sweet) 
Sauce Mousseline Chaude 

Put into a whipping tin five raw yolks of egg, a wineglass of 
Maraschino liqueur, two whites of egg, and an ounce and a half of 
castor sugar ; mix up together with a whisk, and stand the tin in a 
stewpan with boiling water until the contents are perfectly thick and 
like a souffle, then use for hot puddings, souffles &c. 



COLD SWEET SAUCES 

Brandy Cream 

Or erne Cognac 

Take one pint of double cream, sweeten it with an ounce of castor 
sugar, add the finely chopped peel of a lemon, a teaspoonful of vanilla 
essence and the strained juice of a lemon ; mix in a wineglass and a 
half of brandy and a wineglass of Marshall's Maraschino Syrup, and freeze 
in the freezer (like an ice) till quite thick. Use with plum pudding or any 
other rich boiled or steamed pudding. It can be frozen in a Neapolitan 
ice mould, then cut and served in small squares in a sauceboat. 



OF EXTRA RECIPES SAUCES 31 

Cherry Sauce 

Sauce mix Cerises 

Put in a stewpan one pound of raw ripe cherries, half a pint of 
claret, two tablespoonfuls of red currant jelly, the peel of one lemon 
{tied up with one inch of cinnamon), and two ounces of castor sugar ; 
boil till the liquor is reduced to half the quantity, then remove the peel 
and cinnamon ; colour with a little liquid carmine and set aside on ice 
till wanted, then add a wineglass of Kirsch and half a wineglass of 
brandy and use. 

If fresh cherries are used, crack the stones and remove the kernels 
and boil the latter with the fruit ; should preserved cherries be utilised, 
add six or eight drops of almond essence to bring up the flavour, and 
half a pound of the preserved fruit will be sufficient in the place of one 
pound of the fresh. This sauce is excellent either with hot or cold sweet 
puddings, souffles &c. 

Cold Chocolate Sauce 

Sauce Chocolat Froide 

Put into a stewpan half a pint of water, three ounces of Marshall's 
Icing Sugar, and three ounces of Fry's Caracas Chocolate cut up ; bring 
to the boil, and when it has dissolved mix into it four sheets of Marshall's 
Finest Leaf Gelatine and colour with a little coffee brown; boil together 
for about five minutes, then tammy, and when cool mix with a quarter of 
a pint of stiffly whipped cream ; then set on ice till wanted, and use. 

Fruit Sauce 
Sauce de Fruits 

Take a pot of apricot jam, the chopped peel of one lemon, four 
tablespoonfuls of cold water, the juice of two lemons, a little carmine, 
a wineglass and a half of noyeau or any other liqueur syrup, one ounce 
of castor sugar, tammy, and put on ice till thoroughly cold, then use 
with hot or cold puddings, souffles &c. 

Cold Mousseline Sauce with. Strawberries 

Sauce Mousseline Froide aux Fraises 

Put a quarter of a pint of water and six ounces of loaf sugar into 
a stewpan, and boil to pearl ; then stir it on to six raw yolks of egg, 
half a wineglass of Kirsch liqueur, a quarter of a pint of strawberry 



32 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

puree, and a few drops of Marshall's Liquid Carmine ; place the pan on 
ice and stir with a whisk till perfectly thick and cold ; then mix in a gill 
and a half of stiffly whipped cream flavoured with vanilla, and three 
raw stiffly whipped whites of eggs ; leave on ice till perfectly cold and 
wanted for use. This sauce may be used with ices &c. 

Cold Mousseline Sauce (Sweet) 
Sauce Mousseline Froide 

Put into a stewpan six ounces of loaf sugar and a quarter of a pint 
of water, and boil to pearl (vol. i. page 28) with half a split pod of vanilla ; 
then stir it with a whisk on to six raw yolks of eggs on ice till the mixture 
is of the consistency of cream. Mix in a wineglassful of Maraschino, a 
wineglassful of brandy, the whipped whites of two eggs, and a quarter of 
a pint of stiffly whipped double cream, and leave on ice till wanted to 
serve. Use with puddings, ices &c. 

Cold Orange Sauce 

Sauce a" Oranges Froide 

Put four ounces of castor sugar into a stewpan with half a pint 
of water and boil together for a few minutes, then add an eighth of 
an ounce of Marshall's Gelatine ; when this is dissolved mix it with 
the pulp of four oranges (which have been freed from pith and pips), a 
tablespoonful of orange-flower water and a saltspoonful of apricot 
yellow, a wineglass of brandy and the same of Maraschino syrup ; rub 
through a clean tammy cloth and add to it the fine shredded peel of two 
oranges that has been blanched, eight or ten drops of vanilla essence ; 
serve in a sauce boat, ice-cold. This is an excellent sauce to serve with 
hot or cold souffles, puddings &c. 



OF EXTRA RECIPES HORS D'CEUVRES AND SAVOURIES 33 



CHAPTER II 
HOBS D'CEUVRES AND SAVOURIES 

Anchovies a la Colniar 
Anchois a la Colmar 

Take some of the prepared Christiania anchovies, curl each one up, and 
place it on a little round crouton of fried bread, garnished with hard- 
boiled white and yolk of egg that have been rubbed through a wire sieve ; 




garnish round each crouton with Anchovy cream (vol. i.), using a forcing 
bag and small rose pipe for the purpose ; dish up on a paper and serve 
one to each person. These can also be served as a savoury or for any 
cold collation. 

Anchovy Oroutes a la Francaise 
Oroides a" Anchois a la Francaise 

Cut out some slices of bread with a kite-shape cutter, fry them till 
a pale golden colour, then by means of a forcing bag with a rose pipe, 
mask them with anchovy puree prepared as below ; sprinkle here and 
there a little hard-boiled yolk and white of egg that have been rubbed 
through a hair sieve, and a little finely-chopped raw green parsley and 
coralline pepper, place a turned olive on each, and dish on a paper and 
serve as a savoury or for any cold collation. 

Anchovy Puree for Anchovy Croutes A la Francaise. Take 
eight washed and boned anchovies, three hard-boiled yolks of eggs, a 
few drops of carmine, a quarter-pound of fresh butter, and a dust of 
coralline pepper ; pound together, rub through a fine hair sieve and use. 

i) 



34 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

Anchovies a la Rosamond 

Anchois a la Rosamond 

Put some of the Christiania anchovies on a plate, season with a little 
finely chopped eschalot, parsley and French gherkin, and sprinkle well 
with salad oil and coralline pepper. Cut some raw ripe tomatoes into 
slices about a quarter of an inch thick, season these in the same manner 
as the fish, and mask them all over with hard-boiled yolk of egg that 
has been rubbed through a wire sieve. Twist the anchovies into a 
round form and place two of them on each piece of tomato, arrange 
some hard-boiled yolk of egg that has been rubbed through a sieve 
on a dish to form a border, place the tomatoes on this, sprinkle over a 
little salad oil, some French capers, and a little coralline pepper, serve 
for a luncheon, second course or savoury dish. 

Anchovies a. la Saint Augustine 
Anchois a la Saint Augustin 

Take twelve washed and boned anchovies, pound them with three 
hard-boiled yolks of egg, one ounce of lax, colour with a few drops of 
liquid carmine, add a tablespoonful of Tomato sauce (vol. i.) and half a 
pint of liquid aspic jelly, and rub through a fine hair sieve, then add to 
it half a gill of stiffly whipped cream. Line some little fluted dariol 
moulds with aspic jelly, garnish the top of each with little sprigs of 




green chervil and shreds of hard-boiled white of egg, setting with a 
little jelly. Then fill up each with the creamy mixture, and leave on 
ice till wanted ; then dip into hot water to turn out, and place each little 
shape on a slice of hard-boiled egg that has been seasoned with salad 
oil, a little mignonette pepper and salt, and chopped raw parsley. Serve 
one to each person for hors d'oeuvre or savoury. 

Appetit Sild a la Burlington 

Appetit Sild a la Burlington 

Take some Kriiger's appetit sild, lay them on a plate, season them 
with salad oil, some finely chopped red pickled cabbage and French 
gherkin, and roll each up into a little ball shape ; cut some hard-boiled 
egg into slices about a quarter of an inch thick, season them with salad 



OF EXTRA RECIPES HORS D'CEUVRES AND SAVOURIES 35 

oil, sprinkle over them a little finely shredded crisp lettuce, place two or 
three of the prepared fish on the top, and serve for a savoury or luncheon 
dish. 

Appetit Sild on Croutes 

Croutes cm Appetit Sild 

Cut some rounds of stale tin bread about a quarter of an inch thick 
b)y two inches in diameter, fry them in clean boiling fat till a pretty 
golden colour, then take up, brush them over with a little warm glaze, 
season with a dust of coralline pepper. Put the puree prepared as 
below into a forcing bag with a large rose pipe, and with it form a 
border on the croutons ; place in the centre one of Kriiger's appetit sild 
rolled up, fill up the inside with a little hard-boiled yolk of egg (that has 
been rubbed through a wire; sieve), put on this two or three large French 
capers ; sprinkle over with a little lobster coral or coralline pepper and 
a little chopped fresh green parsley ; arrange the croutes on a dish paper 
and serve for a savoury, or make the croutons smaller and serve for 
hors d'eeuvre or for ball suppers or luncheon. 

Puree for Apfetit Sild on Croutes. Pound together till smooth 
a quarter of a pound of chicken with two ounces of fresh butter, a 
good dust of Marshall's Coralline Pepper, a little salt, one ounce of grated 
Parmesan cheese, one tablespoonful of thick cream, two hard-boiled yolks 
of eggs, and two ounces of lean cooked ham or tongue ; rub through a 
fine hair sieve and use as directed above. 

Devilled Biscuits 

Biscuits d la D table 

Take a pinch of Marshall's Coralline Pepper, half a saltspoonful of 
salt, a dessertspoonful of anchovy paste, a tablespoonful of Bengal 
chutney, a saltspoonful of strained lemon juice, a teaspoonful of English 
mustard, and a dessertspoonful of French mustard, and mix these 
ingredients together ; steep some captain biscuits in warm fresh butter, 
then cut them up in three or four pieces ; place these on a grill-iron 
over the fire for about ten minutes, turning them occasionally, when 
they should be a nice brown colour ; when cooked take them up and 
mask them over with the mixture prepared as above, then return to 
the grill and cook again for about five minutes. Dish up on a hot dish, 
garnish with a few sprigs of green parsley, and serve for a savoury. 
Oatmeal biscuits, also toasted bread, are very good when treated in this 
way. 

d i 



36 ; MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

Cashews a la Diable 
Acajoux a la Diable 

Take some cashew-nuts, allowing about a dozen to each person, and 
throw them into some clarified oil or butter in a stewpan, and fry them 
till a nice golden colour ; put them into a strainer to drain from the oil, 
season with a little coralline pepper and salt, dish them up on a dish- 
paper, and serve for hors d'ceuvre, savoury, or dessert. 

Little Cases a la Strasbourg 
Petites Cassolettes d la Strasbourg 

Prepare about two ounces of savoury short paste (vol. i. page 39), and 
with it very thinly line some little boat-shaped moulds ; in each case 
put a little buttered paper to fit the mould, and fill it up with rice or 
dried grain, then put to bake in a moderate oven for about twenty 
minutes ; remove the rice and papers, and put the cases back again in 
their tins in the oven to dry, if needed, till like biscuits. Take them out 
and let them get cool, trim them, take them out of the tins, and orna- 
ment the edges with fresh butter, using a bag with a small fancy pipe ; 
lightly sprinkle over the butter a little finely chopped parsley, and fill 
the cases with a mixture of chopped olives, tongue, French gherkin, and 
apple, the latter seasoned with a little salad oil, chopped tarragon and 
chervil, and tarragon vinegar ; on the centre of each cassolette place a 
little round of pate de foie gras stamped out with a plain round cutter. 
When required, serve each of them on a little plate or a little fancy 
saucer, and garnish with two little bunches of prettily shredded celery, 
which should be kept in cold water till wanted, then dried and mixed 
with a little chopped eschalot, tarragon vinegar, a little salad oil, and a 
tiny pinch of salt and use for a hors d'ceuvre. These can also be used 
as a savoury, in which case serve them on a dish in a pile. 

Little Cassolettes a rAmbassade 
Petites Cassolettes a V Ambassade 

Take some little boat-shaped moulds and line them thinly with 
Anchovy biscuit paste (vol. i.), trim the edges of the paste evenly and 
prick the bottom well to prevent it blistering; then put into each a 
piece of buttered paper and fill up with rice or any dry grain, bake in a 
moderate oven for fifteen to twenty minutes, then take out the paper 
and grain and return the cases to the oven to dry the insides well ; when 
cooked set aside till cold, then partly fill up each with rows of hard- 



OF EXTRA RECIPES HORS D'CEUVRES AND SAVOURIES 37 

boiled yolk and white of egg, which have been rubbed separately through 
a wire sieve, and here and there put a few French capers, and two or 
three little rolled-up slices of Kruger's marinaded fillets of herrings, and 
place in the centre a rolled-up piece of lax and two farced olives. 
Dish up on little plates or silver-plated saute pans and serve one to each 
guest, or if arranged together on a flat dish will make a nice savoury or 
side dish. 

Devilled Caviar 

Caviar d la Diahle 

Cut some slices of stale bread an inch thick, and stamp them out 
with a round cutter about two inches in diameter, then with a smaller 
cutter stamp the centre to about a quarter of an inch in depth, and fry 
the croutons in clean boiling fat till a nice golden colour, then remove 
the inner circles and fill up the centres with the mixture prepared as 
follows : put two table spoonfuls of caviar into a stewpan with a tea- 
spoonful of Liebig Company's Extract of Meat, a dust of Marshall's 
Coralline Pepper, a teaspoonful of lemon juice, and a saltspoonful of 
Marshall's Curry Powder, place the pan in the bain-marie, and stir 
all together till quite hot, and use as directed above. Serve one to each 
person on a dish paper, hot or cold. These can be served for a liors 
d'ceuvre or savoury. 

Caviar with. Herbs 
Caviar aux Herbes 

Take some Astrakan caviar, put it on little croutons of fried bread 
that are thickly buttered, put a few drops of strained lemon juice on it, 
a tiny dust of coralline pepper, a slight sprinkling of finely chopped 
eschalot, and here and there place a few little leaves of plainly washed 
chervil ; dish up one crouton to each guest and serve for a hors d'ceuvre, 
or, if liked, as a savoury. 

Caviar a la V6four 

Caviar a la Vefour 

Take some hard-boiled eggs, and cut them in halves lengthwise ; 
remove the yolks and rub them through a wire sieve. Prepare a puree 
as below, and with a rose pipe and bag fill up with it the spaces from 
which the yolks were taken, and garnish round the edges with the yolk. 
Garnish some little cold croutons of fried bread with caviar, place the 
prepared egg in the centre, then garnish with a little nice salad of any 



3'"8 MRS. A. JB. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

description, and serve one to each person on a little silver or glass plate- 
for hors d'ceuvre or savoury. 

Pure for Caviar A la Vefour. Take six or eight fillets of Chris- 
tiania boned anchovies, two hard-boiled yolks of eggs, a dust of coralline 
pepper, three ounces of butter, a teaspoonful of pounded French capers, 
about six drops of carmine, and a saltspoonful of French mustard ; pound 
together till smooth, then rub through a fine hair sieve, and use as 
directed above. 

Cheese Crab 
Fromage d la Crabe 

Take half a pound of Gloucester or Cheshire cheese and cut it into 
very thin slices, then pound it till it looks quite like a paste, and mix 
with it a teaspoonful of mixed English and a saltspoonful of French 
mustard, a teaspoonful each of tarragon and chilli vinegar, a dust of 
Marshall's Coralline Pepper, one tablespoonful of salad oil, and two table- 
spoonfuls of thick cream and eight or ten Kruger's appetit sild. Pound 
together, and then rub the whole through a fine hair sieve. Take some 
little round croutons of fried bread, about two inches in diameter and a 
quarter of an inch thick, and when they are cool put a little of the 
cheese mixture on each, sprinkle over a little raw chopped parsley and 
lobster coral if you have it, then dish up on a dish-paper, and serve one 
to each person for a savoury or second-course dish. They may also be 
served plainly on a glass dish for a hors d'ceuvre or for a ball supper &c. 

Cream of Cheese a l'Imperatrice 

Greme de Fromage a l'Imperatrice 

Grate about three-quarters of a pound of Gruyere cheese, and season 
it with a little Marshall's Coralline Pepper ; make about two or three 
slices of toast, butter them lightly, keeping them hot, and spread them 
over about one-eighth of an inch thick with clotted cream ; sprinkle the 
cream over with a layer of the cheese, place another slice of toast on 
the top, and finish this similarly. Take the dish on which the cheese is 
to be served, sprinkle the bottom with some of the cheese, and pour 
into it about three tablespoonfuls of double cream and the same 
quantity of old ale mixed together and quite boiling ; cut the prepared 
toast into strips crosswise, and arrange them in the dish ; then place 
this in a tin containing boiling water, and put it into a quick oven for 
about fifteen minutes ; then take out, and if the contents are not a nice 
golden colour make them so with a hot salamander ; sprinkle round the 



OF EXTRA RECIPES IIORS D'CEUVRES AND SAVOURIES 31) 

edge of the dish a little of the grated cheese and some chopped parsley, 
and serve at once for a savoury, second-course, or luncheon dish. This 
is also a nice dish to serve for gentlemen on returning from shooting or 
hunting. 

Cheese Fleur in Surprise 
Flew au Fromage en Surprise 

Lightly butter a fleur ring and place it on a buttered paper on a 
buttered baking-tin, line it entirely with Cheese paste (see recipe), 
about a quarter of an inch thick, trim off the edges neatly and prick 
it well at the bottom ; fit a buttered paper to the inside of the fleur 
and fill up the centre with raw rice ; bake in a moderate oven for about 
twenty minutes and when cooked t;ike up, remove the paper and rice, 




and fill up the case with the Cheese puree (sec recipe), then by means of 

a forcing bag with a large rose pipe cover over quickly with the whites 
of four eggs that have been whipped stiff with a pinch of salt and a 
dust of Marshall's Coralline Pepper ; sprinkle with grated Parmesan 
cheese and a few browned bread crumbs, put into a quick oven for about 
ten minutes ; then place on a hot dish and serve hot for a second course 
or savoury dish. 

Croustades with Cheese 
Groustades au Fromage 

Take a stale square loaf, and cut it into little blocks about two inches 
and a half square by an inch and a half thick ; on the top cut an 
inner square about an inch and a half, not quite through the bread ; 
cut the edges of these blocks into any pretty design, and fry them in 
boiling salad oil or clarified butter till a nice golden colour, then scoop 
out the inner square ; place in each of these hollows a piece of Gruyere 
cheese cut an inch and a quarter square, pour over each a teaspoonful 
of cream, sprinkle very slightly with a little coralline pepper, and place 
the croustades on a baking tin, cover them with a buttered paper, and 
put them in a moderate oven for ten to twelve minutes till the cheese 
is melted ; dish them up in cutlet form on a cheese dish if you have one ; 



40 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

pour all over them some Cheese cream sauce (see recipe), and at once 
"brown the top with a red-hot salamander, and serve immediately while the 
dissolved cheese is still boiling. This dish can be served as a savoury- 
after the sweets, or for a second-course dish, and is very suitable for 
gentlemen when they return from hunting. 

Potted Cheese a la Vienne 
Terrine de Fromage d la Vienne 

Take one pound of cheese (Cheddar being preferred) and add to it 
in a mortar a quarter of a pound of perfectly fresh butter, a pinch of 
Marshall's Coralline Pepper, a teaspoonful of raw mustard, a pinch of 
white pepper, and a little ground mace ; pound these all together till 
quite into a paste, and mix with this a wineglass of sherry ; put it into 
a clean dry jar, press the mixture down closely together, and well 
smooth the top with a knife, then pour over it a little clarified butter 
(vol. i.), and when this is set serve the cheese in the jar for a savoury ; 
it may also be served on croutons or on toast, and in this manner makes 
a nice supper or luncheon dish. 

Crayfish (Prawns) a la Gelde 
Ecrevisses (Grevettes) a la Gelee 

Fill some little bombe moulds with aspic jelly ; let this set, then dip 
the moulds into warm water, turn out and arrange some large prawns or 
the prepared crayfish bodies all over the bombes and serve in little square 
paper cases that are filled with a salad of lettuce ; they can be garnished 
with picked chervil, parsley, or tarragon ; serve for hors d'ceuvre or 
savoury or for any cold service. 

Creams a la Marmotte 
Cremes d la Marmotte 

Take half a pint of fresh-picked shrimps, eight appetit sild, a tea- 
spoonful of anchovy essence, a dust of Marshall's Coralline Pepper, a 
teaspoonful of French mustard, the same quantity of tarragon vinegar, 
two hard-boiled yolks of eggs, and a few drops of carmine ; pound all 
together till smooth, then mix with four tablespoonfuls of thick cream 
and a tablespoonful of salad oil, and rub all together through a fine wire 
sieve. Put this puree into a forcing bag with a large rose pipe, and 
force it out into small portions on to the little shells made of puff paste ; 
garnish the centres with a raw oyster that is seasoned with a little lemon 



OF EXTRA RECIPES HORS D'CEUVRES AND SAVOURIES 41 

juice and coralline pepper, and place round the edge four or five little 
rolls of thinly cut bread-and-butter, the ends of which have been dipped 
into a little finely chopped parsley. Dish up on a napkin or paper, and 
serve for a second-course dish, savoury, or ball supper. 

Shells for Creams a la Marmotte. Take a quarter of a pound of 
Puff paste (vol. i.), roll it out thinly, and line some shell moulds with it; 
prick the paste well at the bottoms, trim the edges evenly, place a piece 
of buttered paper inside each, and fill them up with raw rice ; place on 
a baking tin in a moderate oven, and cook till a nice golden colour ; then 
remove the papers and rice, and set the cases aside till cold; slightly 
brush the edges with a little raw white of ^gg, dip them into finely 
chopped raw green parsley, and use as directed. 

Little Creams a la Beatrice 
Petite* Or&mes d la B6atrice 

Put two whole eggs into a basin with three tablespoonfuls of cream, 
one ounce of grated Parmesan cheese, a dust of Marshall's Coralline 
Pepper and a pinch of salt ; mix up all together with a fork or whisk, and 

t lieu pour the mixture into some well-buttered bouche cups, and stand 
them on a piece of paper in a tin; pour in a little water and stand them 
in the oven, which should be of a moderate heat, and Lei them remain for 
twelve to fifteen minutes ; then take out, and when a little cool dip 
them in flour, and then into whole beaten-up egg, and then again into 
freshly made white bread crumbs ; fry them in clean boiling fat till a 
pretty golden colour. If these are served as a savoury after the sweet 
they should be dished up on a napkin or dish paper ; but if serving them 
for a second course in place of game or poultry they may be served with 
Cream sauce (see recipe), and sprinkled with a little coral or chopped 
parsley. 

Little Creams a la Richelieu 

Petites Cremes d la Richelieu 

Take six Christiania anchovies, and pass them through a hair sieve ; 
mix with this puree a dessertspoonful of essence of anchovy, and then 
add by degrees four raw yolks of eggs, four tablespoonfuls of thick 
cream, two whites of eggs, a dust of Marshall's Coralline Pepper and 
a little carmine; mix these ingredients well together, and tammy 
them. Butter some little bouche moulds, and pour in them the mix- 
ture prepared as above ; place the moulds on a baking tin on a piece 
of paper, surround them with boiling water to about half their depth, 



42 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

put the tin in a moderate oven, and cook till the creams are firm ; then 
turn them out, flour, egg, and bread-crumb them, place them in a frying 
basket, and fry in clean boiling fat till a nice golden colour ; when 
cooked, pour Cheese mixture (vol. i. page 80) over them, brown with a 
red-hot salamander, and serve for a savoury or second-course dish while 
in a boiling state. 

Little Creams a la Torento 
Petites Cremes d la Torento 

Mix half a pint of cool liquid aspic jelly with six ounces of grated 
Parmesan cheese, a good pinch of Marshall's Coralline Pepper, a pinch 
of salt, a teaspoonful of French mustard, a teaspoonful of mixed English 
mustard, three large capsicums, two French red chillies that have been 
freed from pips and chopped fine, and a quarter of a pint of stiffly whipped 
cream ; stir these all together till they begin to set, then pour the mixture 
into a Neapolitan ice box and put it into the charged ice cave for one 
and a half to two hours, but half an hour before it is to be served mask 
the top over with a little Tomato aspic (vol. i. page 38). When frozen,. 
dip the mould into cold water and turn out the cream, keeping the 
masked side uppermost, then with a plain round wet cutter about an inch 
in diameter stamp it out into rounds. Dish these up on a dish-paper or 
napkin, garnish here and there with little sprigs of chervil or tarragon 
and serve for a second-course or savoury dish. 

Little Croustades a la Macaire 
Petites Croustades a la Macaire 

Thinly line some little boat-shaped tins with Anchovy biscuit paste 
(vol. i.) ; arrange in each case two raw bearded oysters that are seasoned 
with a tiny dust of Marshall's Coralline Pepper, lemon juice, and a 
little anchovy puree as below, and on these place a piece of filleted 
marinaded herring ; mask this over with Mushroom puree (vol. i.) and 
cook in a moderate oven for fifteen to twenty minutes. When cooked, 
remove them from the oven, take the cases from the moulds, then 
sprinkle the tops with chopped lax and hard-boiled yolk of egg that has 
been rubbed through a wire sieve, and place on a hot dish on a paper. 

Anchovy Puree for Croustades A la Macaire. Take six washed 
and boned anchovies, two hard-boiled yolks of eggs, pound together 
and add one ounce of fresh white bread crumbs, one ounce of warm 
butter, a dust of coralline pepper, and enough oyster liquor to moisten 
it mix together and use. 



OF EXTRA RECIPES HORS D'CEUVRES AND SAVOURIES 43- 

Croutes a la Freiburg 
Croutes a la Fribourg 

Eemove the meat from a dried haddock and rub it through a wim 
sieve ; weigh half a pound and put it into a pan with two table- 
spoonfuls of thick cream and two boned Christiania anchovies that have 
been rubbed through a wire sieve ; mix all together with two ounces 
of warm butter, a dust of Marshall's Coralline Pepper, and eight raw 
bearded oysters that have been chopped fine ; put this mixture into a 
forcing bag with a plain pipe, and with it mask some croutons that are 
cut about a quarter of an inch thick by two and a half inches long, place 
these on a baking tin on a sheet of foolscap paper and cook them in a 
moderate oven for about six or eight minutes, then dish up and pour 
over the croutes a little Cheese mixture (vol. i. page 80), quickly brown 
them with a red-hot salamander, sprinkle each with a little finely 
chopped parsley, and serve on a hot dish on a rjaper or napkin. 



Croutes a la Nannette 
Croule* dla Na/nnette 

Take some stale bread, and cut from it some fancy croutons, and fry 
these in boiling oil till a pretty golden colour, then take them from the 
oil, and when cold arrange on each crouton two little stamped-out pieces 
of Kriiger's fillets of herrings, some tiny bunches of washed and picked 
mustard and cress, and prawns (fresh or the bottled can be used) that 
have been steeped in a little salad oil and tarragon vinegar ; place each 
crouton on a small plate, garnish with finely shredded crisp celery that 
is seasoned with a little salad oil and tarragon vinegar, and serve for a 
hors d'oeuvre or a savoury. 

Ham Toast 
Croutes au Jambon. 

Mince one pound of lean cooked ham very fine and mix it with two 
ounces of butter, a dust of Marshall's Coralline Pepper, the raw yolks of" 
two or three eggs. Put the" mixture into a small saucepan and stir it over 
the fire till thick ; stir into it a teaspoonful of French and a teaspoonful 
of mixed English mustard ; spread it on well-buttered hot toast and then 
cut it up in finger lengths, place on a hot dish on a paper or napkin 
and serve for breakfast or for a savoury while quite hot. 



44 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

Fillets of Herring a la Br^mont 
Filets de Hareng marines d la Bremont 

Cut in two some of Kriiger's marinaded fillets of herrings in wliite 
wine ; prepare some croutons as below, allowing one to each person, 
place the fillets of herrings on them, and garnish each straight down 
with shreds of French red chillies, French gherkins, and hard-boiled white 
of egg, arranging a line of Egg butter (see recipe) each side by means 




of a bag and small rose pipe. Dish en couronne for savoury or cold 
collation. For the crouton, cut strips of stale bread two inches and a 
half long by one wide ; make little incisions in the centre of each, and 
fry in boiling fat till of a golden brown ; drain and scoop out the centre 
where the incisions were made, and fill the hollow with egg butter and 
finish as above. 

Fillets of Herring a la Clarence 
Filets de Hareng a la Clarence 

Take some of Kriiger's marinaded herrings in mixed pickles sauce, 
roll up the fillets and place each on a slice of raw ripe tomato that is 
seasoned with a little salt, chopped French gherkin and salad oil ; 
sprinkle over them some little pieces of pickle from the tin, a few slices 
of French gherkin and red chilli that have also been seasoned with a 
little salad oil, dish up on separate plates and serve one to each person. 
"These can be served as a hors d'ceuvre or savoury. 



Marinaded Herrings a la Connaught 
Harengs marines a la Connaught 

Take some hard-boiled eggs and cut them in slices lengthwise about 
a quarter of an inch thick, season them with a dust of coralline pepper, 
a little salad oil, chopped tarragon and chervil and eschalot, then place 
on each slice a stamped-out round of Kriiger's marinaded fillets of 
herrings, and on the top of the fillets place two pieces of plainly cooked 
prawn or prepared crayfish (in bottles) ; garnish each of the tops with a 



OF EXTRA RECIPES HORS D'CEUVRES AND SAVOURIES 45 

few French capers, and dish them up on little round slices of raw tomato 
that have been seasoned similarly to the eggs. If these are to be used 




for a savoury, arrange them on a dish as in engraving. If for a hors 
d'ceuvre, dish them on small plates, allowing one to each person. 

Fillets of Herring en Oouronne 
Filets de Hareng en Gouronne 

Prepare some Anchovy biscuit paste (vol. i.) ; roll it out about a 
quarter of an inch thick, and with it line a round fleur ring that has 
been buttered and placed on a baking tin on a fold of buttered paper ; 
line the paste with a piece of buttered kitchen paper, and fill up the 
centre with raw rice ; place the fleur in a moderate oven and bake it for 
about fifteen minutes, then remove the paper with the rice, and fill up 
the inside of the fleur with fillets of herrings ; place a band of buttered 
paper round the outside of the ring, allowing it to stand about two 
inches above the fleur. Prepare the souffle mixture as below, and with 
it completely cover over the fillets of herring ; sprinkle the top over with 
a few browned bread crumbs, and return the fleur to the oven for about 
fifteen to twenty minutes ; then take up and remove the outside band of 
paper, and with a slice place the fleur on a hot dish on a dish-paper ; 
then remove the ring from it, and sprinkle all over the top with a hard- 
boiled yolk of egg that has been rubbed through a wire sieve, also a 
little finely chopped parsley and coralline pepper ; serve for a second- 
course, luncheon, or savoury dish. 

Fillets for Fillets of Herring en Couronne. Take four nice 
fresh herrings (or very mild bloaters can be used when these are not in 
season), cleanse them, remove the fillets by means of a sharp knife and 
free them from all bone (and skin, should bloaters be used) ; bat the 
fillets out with a wet heavy kitchen knife or bat ; season the inside of 
these fillets with a very little chopped parsley and eschalot, a slight 
dust of salt and Marshall's Coralline Pepper; then roll them up in 
cylinder shapes, and place each fillet separately in a little band of well- 
buttered foolscap paper ; place these in a stewpan and squeeze over 
them the juice of a large lemon ; cover up the stewpan and let them 



46 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

simmer on the side of the stove or in a very moderate oven for about 
fifteen minutes ; then take up and remove the paper, and use as directed. 
Souffle Mixture for Fillets of Herring en Couronne. Put 
into a stewpan one ounce of butter, the same of flour, a pinch of salt, a 
dust of coralline pepper, one raw yolk of egg, one teaspoonful of French 
mustard, a dessertspoonful of chopped chutney and a small saltspoonful 
of mixed English mustard ; mix with a gill and a half of milk and the 
liquor in which the fillets were cooked, and stir till it boils ; then add 
the four raw soft roes of the herrings that have been rubbed through a 
sieve, a pinch of chopped parsley, and two whites of eggs that have been 
whipped very stiff with a pinch of salt. Mix up all together and use. 

Fillets of Herring marinaded a la Darmstadt 
Filets de Hareng marines a la Darmstadt 

Take some of Kriiger's marinaded fillets of herring, and roll them up 
with the skin outside, then cut each into four round slices ; place these 
again together and put them in a little cup or on a plate ; arrange on 
the top of each a little red pickled cabbage, and here and there some 
crisp cleansed radish and celery that has been mixed with a little oil, 
tarragon vinegar, chopped eschalot, and a little salt and mignonette 
pepper. Serve for a hors d'ceuvre or savoury. 

Marinaded Herrings a la Ravigote 
Harengs marines d la Ravigote 

Take some Kriiger's marinaded fillets of herrings and stamp them 
out with a plain round cutter about an inch and a quarter in 
diameter ; place these on a plate, sprinkle them with a little salad oil, 
and mask them alternately with hard-boiled yolk and white of egg that 




have been rubbed through a wire sieve, and finely chopped fresh green 
parsley; then arrange them on slices of hard-boiled egg that are 
sprinkled with chopped French gherkin ; place in the centre of each a 
little cucumber salad, cut in Julienne shreds and mixed with a little 



OF EXTRA RECIPES HORS D'CEUVRES AND SAVOURIES 47 

oil and salt ; place a little ball of caviar in the centre of the cucumber, 
and dish up on small fancy plates if for hors d'ceuvre, allowing one to 
each person, or, if required to be served for a savoury, dish them en 
couronne on a paper. 

Fillets of Herring a la Reginta 
Filets de Hareng & la Reginta 

Take some Krilger's marinaded fillets of herrings, trim them and 
roll up inside each a little lobster ragout, about the size of half a 
walnut; then dip the fillets into frying batter (vol. i.). and fry until a 
nice golden colour ; take up, drain, and sprinkle each with lobster coral 
or coralline pepper, and serve on a dish-paper on a bed of hard-boiled 
yolk of egg that has been passed through a wire sieve and warmed 
between two plates and sprinkled with a little chopped fresh green 
parsley. Serve for a savoury or breakfast dish. 

Lobsteb EUgoCt fob Fillets of Herring a la Reginta. Take 

two ounces of fresh butter and work it in a basin till like cream, add 
to it half a cooked hen lobster cut into tiny dice Bhapes, and two cut-up 
hard-boiled yolks of eggs; season with a little coralline pepper and a 
saltspoonful of anchovy essence, then use. 



Fillets of Herring a la Rowen 
Filets de Hareng d la Rowen 

Take some croutons of fried bread in lengths about throe inches, and 
an inch and a quarter wide ; on each place one of the prepared fillets of 
herring and garnish by means of a forcing bag and small rose pipe with 




Anchovy butter (vol. i. page 38) and little strips of French gherkin and 
hard-boiled white of egg. Dish up on a paper and garnish with hard- 
boiled yolk of egg, that has been rubbed through a wire sieve, and small 
red French chillies, and serve one to each person for savoury or hors 
d'ceuvre. 



48 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

Marinaded Fillets of Herring on Toast 
Filets de Harengs Marines sur Croutes 

Take a slice of stale tin bread and toast it, spread it over with butter 
and then place on it some of the prepared Kriiger's fillets of herrings 
in white wine ; sprinkle over with a little coralline pepper, and then 
place the toast on a baking-tin, and cover it over with a buttered paper ; 




place it in a moderate oven and cook for about five minutes ; then take 
up, sprinkle over a little raw chopped green parsley and lobster coral, 
and cut it into strips of about two aDd a half to three inches long. 
Dish up en couronne on a dish-paper on a hot dish, and serve at once for 
breakfast or a savoury. 

Herring Roes in Little Cases 
Laitance de Harengs en petites caisses 

Cut some nice crisp well-washed celery into Julienne shreds, dry 
them and mix them with a little finely chopped eschalot, tarragon and 
chervil also cut into little pieces, season with a little coralline pepper, 
salt, and salad oil ; partly fill some little paper or china cases with it, 
place on the top of each a fresh or tinned herring roe that has been 
rolled up and sprinkled with a little lemon juice ; place on the top of the 
roe a small French red chilli, and serve one to each person on small 
plates for a hors d'eeuvre or savoury. If fresh roes are used they should 
be first put on a buttered baking tin, sprinkled with lemon juice and salt, 
and cooked in the oven for ten minutes with a buttered paper over. 

Herring Roes a l'lnd 
Laitance de Hareng a VInd 

Put some of the tinned herring roes into a buttered saute pan, pour 
over them a little warm butter, sprinkle them with a little coralline 
pepper, cover with a buttered paper and cook them in a moderate oven 
for about five minutes. Cut some croutons of bread in lengths of about 
two inches and a half by an inch and a half wide and half an inch thick ; 



OF EXTRA RECIPES IIORS D'CEUVRES AND SAVOURIES 49 

fry them a nice golden colour in boiling fat, then mask each with the 
puree as below, place on the top of each one of the pieces of prepared 
roe and dish up on a hot dish on a paper ; garnish here and there with 
little sprigs of parsley, and serve at once for breakfast or as a savoury 
for dinner or luncheon. 

Puree for Herring Roes a l'Inde. Fry two ounces of finely 
chopped onions in an ounce of butter till a pale golden colour, then mix 
in one ounce of freshly made white bread-crumbs, half a teaspoonful of 
Liebig Company's Extract of Meat, two hard-boiled yolks of eggs that 
have been chopped fine, a teaspoonful of chopped chutney and a pinch of 
curry powder ; stir till boiling, then add the puree from six Christiania 
anchovies and use 

Hors d'CEuvre assorted a la Francaise 
Hors d'CEuvre assortis a la Francaise 

Fill some little dariol moulds (allowing one to each person) with 
different-coloured waters and place them in a charged ice cave for about 
three hours till quite frozen. When ready to serve dip the moulds in 
cold water and turn out the blocks of ice, place each on a little glass 
dish on a piece of wadding and garnish it with little sprigs of chervil; 
arrange around each three or four prawns (or the prepared craytish 
bodies) that are seasoned with a little salad oil, tarragon vinegar and 
a little finely chopped capers, and here and there some lax and crisp 
shreds of radishes and little fillets of Kriiger's marinaded fillets of 
herring rolled up with a little caviar on the top in the centre, and serve. 

Varied Hors d'CEuvres 
Hors d'CEuvres varies 

Take some farced olives, small square pieces of prepared lax, French 
capers, Christiania anchovies, cleansed crisp radishes, crayfish bodies, and 




raw cucumber that has been finely cut and seasoned with a little coral- 
line pepper, salt, and salad oil. Form a border with the cucumber, and 
arrange the other delicacies according to the size of the plate on which 

E 



50 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

they are to be served. If small plates are used the contents may be 
varied, the fish being sprinkled just before serving with a little salad oil. 
The above can be used as a savoury, in which case a flat or entree dish 
would be used. If serving as hors d'ceuvres a single plate can, if con- 
venient, be placed before each guest, or several can be placed at intervals 
about the table, or they may be handed with spoon and fork to allow the 
guests to help themselves. 



Various Hors d'CEuvres in little cases 
Hors d'CEuvres varies en petites caisses 

Have some little square paper cases, and put in each about one table- 
spoonful of finely shredded crisp celery and cucumber (see Salad a 
1' Adeline, vol. i. page 211); arrange round this as a border little shreds 
of Lyons sausage, green French gherkins, and red chillies that have been 
cut in strips, and on the top of the celery put one or two prepared olives 
farced with anchovies. These are nice also to use as a savoury. 



Lax a la Russe 

Lax a la Russe 

Take some prepared lax, season the pieces with a little finely-chopped 
parsley, eschalot, coralline pepper, and salad oil; roll them up into 
cylinder shapes, and cut into slices about a quarter-inch thick; place 
each of these on a very thinly stamped-out slice of raw lemon that 
is placed on a slice of tomato, seasoned with a little salad oil and salt 
and coralline pepper, and arrange them on little croutons of fried bread 
that have had a thin layer of caviar spread over them. Serve on fancy 
papers on little glass dishes, or on a flat dish as a savoury, allowing one 
to each person. 

Croutes -with Lax a la Norv^gienne 
Croutes au Lax a la Norvegiemie 

Take some slices of stale tin bread about a quarter of an inch thick 
and stamp it out in rounds about two inches wide ; fry them in clarified 
butter till a pale golden colour, and set aside till cold. Put some lax 
puree (vol. i. page 35) into a forcing bag with a large rose pipe and force 
it out in the form of a rose on to the croutons. Dish up on a dish paper 
and serve for breakfast, or savoury for luncheon or dinner. 



OF EXTRA RECIPES HOES D'CEUVRES AND SAVOURIES 51 

Lobster a la Boulevard 

Homard a la Boulevard 

Line some small walnut moulds very thinly with aspic jelly, and 
when this is set mask it over with a little Brown Chaudfroid sauce (as 
below) ; let this set, then fill up the moulds with a puree of lobster pre- 
pared as below ; close the moulds and set them aside on ice till cold, 
then dip each one separately into hot water and turn out. Have some 
well-washed crisp celery that is very finely shredded and seasoned with 




a little salad oil and a little finely chopped eschalot, a little salt and 
tarragon vinegar ; partly fill some little paper cases with this, place one 
of the little walnut shapes in each case, and arrange here and there 
in each some little bunches of small salad. Dish up on a paper on a 
dish if they are to be served for a savoury, or if for a hors d'ceuvre 
arrange each case on a small plate on a paper. These are also very 
nice served for a ball supper or for any cold collation. 

Puree for Lobster A la Boulevard. Pound till smooth a quarter 
of a pound of cooked lobster, a few drops of liquid carmine, a tea- 
spoonful of anchovy essence, a dust of coralline pepper, a teaspoonful 
of French and the same of English mustard, two hard-boiled yolks 
of eggs, a teaspoonful of tarragon vinegar and four Kruger's appetit 
sild ; mix with one gill of aspic jelly, rub all through a fine hair sieve, 
and use for filling the moulds when beginning to set enough for eight to 
ten moulds. 

Brown Chaudfroid Sauce for Lobster a la Boulevard. Take 
two tablespoonfuls of Brown sauce (vol. i.), three sheets of Marshall's 
Gelatine, one and a half gills of aspic jelly, half an ounce of glaze, 
reduce a quarter part, tammy and use when cooling. 

Lobster a la Cannes 

Homard a la Cannes 

Take some cold heart-shaped croutons and with a forcing bag and 
rose pipe mask them over with lobster puree and ornament as shown in 
the engraving with little balls of caviar and thinly cut slices of scalloped 

E 2 



52 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

oucumber. Take a quarter of a pound of fresh butter and work it in 
a basin with a wooden spoon till quite smooth, then make it into a border, 
using a large bag with a large rose pipe for the purpose, and sprinkle 




over it some finely shredded crisp lettuce; dish up the croutons on 
the border, and serve for a savoury or second-course dish or for a cold 
collation. 

Puree for Lobster A la Cannes. Take the meat from a freshly 
cooked hen lobster, pound it till quite smooth, then mix with it a tea- 
spoonful of French mustard, half a teaspoonful of mixed English mustard, 
a dust of Marshall's Coralline Pepper, a teaspoonful of essence of anchovy, 
and a teaspoonful of tarragon vinegar; colour with a few drops of 
Marshall's Carmine, add two ounces of fresh butter, mix up all together 
in the mortar, then rub through a fine hair sieve and use. 

Mackerel Roes in Surprise 
Laitance de Maquereaii en Surprise 

Prepare some croutons of bread, and fry them in clean boiling fat 
till a nice golden colour ; then mask them very lightly with Anchovy 
puree (see recipe) ; then place on each a piece of mackerel roe that has 
been masked with a little warm butter and French mustard, and 
sprinkled with a little mignonette pepper, salt, and lemon juice ; cook 
in the oven for six to eight minutes ; garnish each with some yolk 
of egg that has been passed through the sieve, and little shreds of red 
chilli, and serve for a breakfast dish or savoury. When fresh roes are 
not obtainable the roes preserved in tins are a good substitute. 

Devilled Muscatels 
Raisins & la Diable 

Pick off the stalks from some muscatels and put the fruit into a fry- 
ing basket, then plunge them into clean boiling lard or oil, fry them till 
crisp on the outside, then take up and shake from the fat and turn the 
fruit out on to a clean cloth ; season them with salt and coralline pepper 
and a slight dust of ground ginger, and dish up on a hot dish on a paper. 



OF EXTRA RECIPES HORS D'CEUVRES AND SAVOURIES 53 

Serve as a second-course dish after roast game, or for a savoury or hors 
d'ceuvre. About two ounces of fruit should be allowed for each guest. 

Olives a la Belle Euge'nie 
Olives d la Belle Eugenie 

Line some little fluted timbal moulds about one-eighth of an inch 
thick with aspic jelly that is coloured to an olive shade with sapgreen,. 
and when this is set garnish the moulds at the bottom in the form of a 
star with hard-boiled white of egg cut out in little diamond shapes ; 
garnish the sides of the moulds with the same, and set with a little 
more aspic. Take some olives farced with anchovies or truffle (those 
kept in bottles do admirably for the purpose), and place one in 
each of the prepared moulds, then fill up with a little more aspic 
and put them in a cool place till set. Take some little fancy square 
paper cases and put into each about a dessertspoonful of hard-boiled 
yolk of egg that has been rubbed through a wive sieve. Dip the 
little timbal moulds into hot water, pass a cloth over the bottoms 




to absorb any moisture, and then turn out and place one in the centre 
of each of the paper cases. Rub some hard-boiled white of egg through 
a sieve, and then arrange it and some of the prepared yolk round the 
olives to form a border. Roll some caviar into little balls about the 
size of half a small Spanish nut ; prepare some Montpellier butter 
(vol. i.) and Anchovy butter (vol. i.), and put them into separate 
forcing bags with small rose pipes ; then arrange these three garnishes 
alternately on the egg, but leave a little space between each, so that 
the egg can also be seen. Dish up on little glass plates, on each of 
which is put a fancy dish paper, and serve one to each person for a hors 
d'ceuvre or for a savoury. If for the latter, arrange all on one dish. 
These timbals are also very pretty for a ball supper &c. 

Olives a la Heine 

Olives d la Beine 

Take some little boat-shaped tins, and thinly line them with Anchovy 
biscuit paste (vol. i.) ; trim the edges of the paste evenly, well prick 



54 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

the bottoms to prevent their blistering, line each with a piece of buttered 
foolscap paper, and fill them with raw rice or any dry grain ; place the 
tins on a baking sheet, and bake them in a moderate oven for about 
twenty minutes, taking care that the paste does not become discoloured 
during the cooking ; when quite dry, remove the papers and rice (which 
can be used again for the same purpose), turn out the cases, and set 




them aside till quite cold ; then partly fill them with hard-boiled yolk 
of egg that has been rubbed through a sieve, and arrange on this taste- 
fully and neatly six large French capers, two little rolled-up balls of 
caviar, two rolls of lax, little pieces of well-washed crisp heart of lettuce, 
sprigs of fresh crisp tarragon and chervil, and two olives farced with 
anchovies. Dish up on small papers on small glass plates if for a hors 
d'ceuvre, or dish them en masse if for a cold savoury or ball supper dish. 

Oysters a la Bonne Bouche 

Huitres a la Bonne Bouche 

Take some stale bread and cut it in slices about a quarter of an 
inch thick ; stamp from these some rounds about two inches in diameter, 
and fry them in clean boiling fat till a pale golden colour and quite 
crisp ; set them aside till cold, then mask each over about the eighth of 
an inch thick with a puree prepared as below, smoothing this over with 
a hot wet knife ; then place in the centre a little thinly cut piece of raw 
lemon freed from rind, and on the lemon place an oyster prepared as 
below ; sprinkle on the top a little finely chopped raw green parsley and 
a dust of Marshall's Coralline Pepper, then dish up on a dish paper and 
garnish with tiny bunches of mustard and cress or fresh green parsley. 
Prepare the oysters by removing the beards, then put them in a stewpan 
with the strained juice of a lemon, and toss them over the fire till the 
juice is hot, but do not let it boil ; leave them till cold, then use. The 
beards and liquor from the oysters can be used up for sauces or soups. 
Serve for a ball supper or for a luncheon party or as a second-course 
savoury. 

Puree for Oysters a la Bonne Bouche. Take a quarter of a 
pound of cooked chicken and free it from skin and bone, add to it a 
dust of coralline pepper, four raw bearded sauce oysters, one hard-boiled 



OF EXTRA RECIPES HORS D'CEUVRES AND SAVOURIES 55" 

yolk of egg, four boned Christiania anchovies, and two ounces of fresh 
butter ; pound together till smooth, then rub through a fine hair sieve 
and use as directed above by means of a large forcing bag and rose pipe. 

Parmesan Rings 
Bonds an Parmesan 

Put into a stewpan a quarter of a pint of single cream, a quarter of a pint 
of new milk, a teaspoonful of salt, a dust of Marshall's Coralline Pepper, 
and three ounces of butter ; bring this to the boil, then add five ounces 
and a half of fine flour that has been sifted ; stir well together, and 
cook on the stove for five or six minutes, then remove from the fire and 
mix into it four well beaten-up raw eggs, and a quarter of a pound of 
grated Parmesan cheese ; mix these well together, then put some of the 




mixture into a forcing bag with a plain pipe, and force it out on to a 
fiying strainer in the form of rings ; brush these over with whole 
beaten-up raw egg, and put them into hot clean fat, and fry for eight 
to ten minutes, when they should be a nice golden colour. Take 
them up, dust them over with grated Parmesan cheese, and serve hot 
on a dish paper for a savoury. These are also nice as a cold dish, and 
can be used for ball suppers &c. 

Little Pies a la Berlin 
Pet its Pates a la Berlin 

Prepare some little puff paste cases (vol. i. page 155). When baked 
remove the centre paste entirely, and brush the inside of the case 
over with a little warm thin glaze ; put the cases on a clean baking 
tin and place them in a moderate oven, and leave them to crisp ; then 
take up and when somewhat cool put inside each a piece of caviar 
about the size of half a walnut ; on this place a raw bearded oyster and 
sprinkle over a few drops of strained lemon juice, and a few little sprigs 
of fresh-gathered chervil ; arrange one to a guest on small plates, glass 
or silver, on a tiny paper, and serve for hors d'ceuvre or savoury, or ball 
supper &c. 



56 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

Profiteroles with Cheese Cream 
Profiteroles an Creme de Fromasje 

Take some choux-paste as for Profiteroles with Parmesan (vol. i.). 
Put the mixture into a forcing bag with a plain pipe and force out of it 
the mixture into pieces about the size of a small walnut into a stewpan 
containing some clean hot fat ; fry the paste, turning it frequently while 
cooking, till a nice golden brown colour, and quite like a souffle in light- 
ness ; then open by means of a sharp-pointed knife and fill up the inside 
with Cheese puree (see recipe), close up the opened space and then roll 
each ball into freshly grated Parmesan cheese, and dish up on a paper 
or napkin and use for a savoury for dinner or luncheon, always serving 
while quite hot. 

Tartlets a la Vandeleur 
Tartines & la Vandeleur 

Line some little tartlet tins about an eighth of an inch thick with 
savoury short paste (vol. i.), trim round the edges and prick the paste 
well at the bottom to prevent blistering, then line the tartlets with a 
buttered paper, and fill up with raw rice ; then put them on a buttered 
tin and bake in a moderate oven till the paste is a. pretty fawn colour 
and perfectly crisp ; remove the paper and rice, and allow the cases to 
cool, then remove them from the tins and fill up with Kriiger's marinaded 




fillets of herring, cut into little square pieces, and chopped lax. Garnish 
with hard-boiled yolk of egg that has been passed through a wire sieve, 
and little balls of caviar and farced olives, and two or three halves of the 
prepared crayfish bodies (in bottles) that have been seasoned with a little 
salad oil, tarragon vinegar and coralline pepper, and place each tartlet 
separately on little dish papers, and they may then be placed on little 
plated or glass dishes, one to each guest. These can be used for a 
savoury or- hors d'ceuvre, or for any cold service. 

Tomatoes a la MatilcLe 
Tomates a la Matilde- 

Take some small tomatoes, remove the stalks and pips from the 
centres, season them with a little salt and mignonette pepper. and 



OF EXTRA RECIPES HORS D'CEUVRES AND SAVOURIES 57 

chopped tarragon and chervil, fill up with capers and olives farced with 
anchovy, and dish up on a pile of finely shredded crisp celery that has 
been cut and left in water till crisp, and then dried and seasoned with a 
little salad oil, chopped tarragon, chervil and eschalot ; on the top of the 
tomatoes place two large prawns (or some prepared crayfish bodies in 
bottles) that are seasoned with salad oil, tarragon vinegar and a little 
coralline pepper and chervil leaves. Serve one to each person in a little 
paper case on a plate. These can be served for a savoury dish or for a 
cold collation. 

Tomatoes a la Reginald 
Tomates d la Jicginald 

Cut some ripe tomatoes into slices about half an inch thick, place 
on each slice two or three very finely-cut rings of raw onion, season them 
with a little salad oil, tarragon and chilli vinegar, and a little salt and 
coralline pepper ; fill up the centres of the rings with some very finely- 




cut shreds of crisp celery (seasoned in the same manner as the onion), 
and on this place a small radish and three or four strips of Kriiger's 
appetit sild ; dish up on little plates or little plated stewpans, serving 
one to each person. These can be served for a hors d'ceuvre or savoury. 

Tomatoes a la Verrey 

Tomates d la Verve 1/ 

Take some raw ripe tomatoes, slice them very thinly and season them 
with a little salad oil and tarragon and chilli vinegar, place a slice on a 
little plate, first cutting it through into four pieces, put a thin slice of 
raw lemon on the top of these and place on the top of the lemon a raw 
bearded oyster that is seasoned with a little lemon juice and coralline 
pepper ; arrange round the dish some finely cut crisp celery seasoned 
similarly to the tomatoes, and serve one to each person for a hors 
d'ceuvre, or with a number on a single dish they form a nice savoury. 



-58 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 



CHAPTER HI 
SOUPS 

I. CLEAR SOUPS 

Soup a l'Alexandra 

Consomme a V Alexandra 

Pkepare a Clear soup (vol. i.), allowing about half a pint for each 
person, and garnish it as follows : Take a breast of cooked chicken or a 
fillet of cooked rabbit, and cut it in thin slices, and stamp it out in 
rounds with a plain cutter about the size of a sixpence ; put some 
uncrystallised cherries allowing about four to each person in a 
stewpan with a pinch of salt and enough cold water to cover them, 
when they come to the boil strain and rinse them ; blanch a few of the 
picked leaves of the sprigs of chervil, add them with the cherries to the 
soup, bring it to the boil, pour it into the tureen, add the pieces of chicken, 
and serve the soup very hot. When the fresh cherries are in season 
they may be used instead of the uncrystallised [ones, and should be 
stoned and prepared the same way, and the kernels blanched and also 
added to the soup. 

Soup a l'Azalea 

Consomme a. V Azalea 

Prepare some Clear soup (vol. i.), and a little time before it is to 
be served place in it some Julienne-cut shapes of carrot and leek that 
have been [put in cold water, Jbrought to the boil, then strained and 
rinsed in cold water ; boil them in the soup till tender, remove all the 
scum, then add some Julienne-cut shreds of lettuce, tarragon, and chervil, 
and some timbals as below, allowing one to each person ; then use. 

Timbals FOR Soup A l'Azalea. Take [four ounces of raw chicken 
or rabbit, four ounces of Panard (vol. i.), half an ounce of butter, one 
whole and one yolk of egg, a little salt and white pepper ; pound the 
meat till smooth, then pound the panard, mix together into a smooth 
paste, adding the eggs and seasoning, and rub through a fine wire 



OF EXTRA RECIPES SOUPS . . 59 

sieve, then mix with a tablespoonful of thick cream. Divide this mixture' 
into two parts, colour one part with carmine and leave the other white ;, 
put these into separate forcing bags with small plain pipes, and force 
alternately into little buttered bouche moulds ; make the insides quite 
smooth, leaving a little hollow in the centre which is to be filled up 
with Brunoise vegetables that have been blanched and then cooked in 
a little consomme till tender, cover over with a little more farce, smooth 
over with a hot wet knife, and place the moulds in a stewpan on a 
fold of paper, fill up with boiling water, watch the water reboil, draw 
the pan to the side of the stove and let the contents simmer for about 
ten minutes, then turn out carefully, rinse the timbals in a little warm 
water, and use for garnishing clear or thick soups. 



Soup a la Sarah Bernhardt 
Consomme" & la Sarah Bernhardt 

Take one quart of Clear soup (vol. i.) for every four persons, bring 
it to the boil, and mix with it one tablespoonful of Bermuda arrowroot 
that has been mixed with a wineglass of sherry into a smooth paste; 
stir till it reboils, then let it simmer on the side of the stove for about 
twenty minutes ; add to it when ready to serve a slice of blanched beef 
marrow (vol. i. page 33) for each person, also about a teaspoonful of 
little pea quenelles (vol. i. page 51) and some picked and blanched water- 
cress. Serve quite hot. 

Veal Soup a la Bourgeoise 
Consomme de Veau d la Bourgeoise 

Prepare some good-flavoured veal stock as below, and when it is 
clarified and ready to serve make it perfectly boiling and garnish it 
with little pea quenelles (vol. i. page 51) and cucumber peas (see recipe), 
white and yolk of egg (see recipe, Consomme a la Kachel, vol. i.), and 
with blanched chervil and tarragon. 

Stock for Consomme de Veau A la Bourgeoise. Put in a sauce- 
pan about three pounds of neck of veal, one calf s foot, and one raw 
rabbit ; cover with about six quarts of cold water, add a little salt, and 
allow the stock to come to the boil, then remove the scum and add four 
or five onions, a bunch of herbs, such as parsley, bayleaf, and thyme, 
about a dozen peppercorns, and four or five cloves ; simmer this gently 
for three to four hours, but when the rabbit has been cooking about one 



60 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

hour, it can be taken up and used for luncheon &c. ; the calf's foot and' 
veal also may be removed when cooked ; strain off the stock, set aside 
till cold, then remove the fat, and clarify, as in vol i. page 50. 



Soup a l'Espoir 
Consomme a l'Espoir 

Prepare some Clear soup (vol. i.), and just before serving garnish it 
with shredded tarragon, picked leaves of chervil, strips of savoury custard 
(vol. i. page 54), and tiny quenelles made with veal or chicken farce 
and garnished with peas. Prepare the farce for the quenelles (vol. i. 
page 51) ; then divide it into two parts, and colour one part with a 
little carmine, and make the other white with a little cream ; put these 
into forcing bags, and force out on to a buttered saute pan in the form 
of a little ring of peas, stick some cooked green peas in the quenelles, 
and then poach them by pouring boiling water in the pan ; bring the 
water again to the boil, stand on the side of the stove for about ten 
minutes, then strain, rinse with warm water, and use. 



Soup a la Geneve 
Consommr d la Genece 

Take some Clear soup (vol. i.), just bring to the boil, then add 
some little square-cut pieces of cooked calf s head, using only- the 
glutinous part of the flesh, and allowing about a dessertspoonful of the 
pieces to each pint of soup, and the same of cooked macedoine of vege- 
tables and a teaspoonful of little strips of red and yellow savoury 
custard (vol. i. page 56) ; boil the soup with the vegetables and pieces 
of the head for four or five minutes, sprinkle in a little finely cut 
shredded tarragon and chervil that have been blanched, then use. 



Soup a la Leopold 

Consomme a la Leopold 

Take some good Clear soup (vol. i.), bring it to the boil, and just 
before serving garnish it with little picked leaves of blanched chervil 
and finely cut shreds of tarragon and little thin rounds of stamped-out 
French gherkin, and egg garnishes (see recipe), allowing about a tea- 
spoonful of each of the latter for every quart of soup. 



OF EXTRA RECIPES SOUPS, 61 

Soup a la Marie-Louise 
Consomme a la Mm-ie-Louise 

Take some Clear soup (vol. i.) and when about to serve garnish it 
with Savoury custard (see recipe), tinned artichoke bottoms that have 
been rinsed in warm water and then cut into little dice shapes, and 
shreds of blanched tarragon and. chervil and shreds of lean cooked ham. 

Marmite Soup 
Petite Marmite 

Pick, cleanse, and truss a nice fowl as for boiling and put it into the 
Marmite pot with two or three pounds of fresh veal, rabbit, or other nice 
meat bones, and the cleansed feet or necks of poultry ; cover with four 
or five quarts of cold water, add a little salt, bring to the boil, then skim 
off all the scum that rises to the surface, and occasionally add a little 
cold water during the first quarter of an hour's cooking ; then add to it 
two fresh carrots, two turnips, two leeks, and four or five strips of the 
heart of a stick of celery ; put in a muslin bag a bunch of herbs, con- 
sisting of thyme, parsley, basil, and marjoram, about twelve peppercorns, 
four cloves, two Jamaica peppers, a blade of mace, and five peeled 
eschalots, and add this to the soup. Put in another bag about a dozen 
and a half little button onions, and add them to the soup ; but these, 




together with the two turnips, must be removed when they are cooked ; 
let the soup simmer steadily for an hour and a half to two hours, but if a 
young fowl is used it should be removed when the soup has simmered 
for one hour. Carefully remove the fat from the soup, and take out the 
vegetables and bones ; strain off the liquor through a clean soup cloth, 
when it should be perfectly clear, then return it to the pot to reboil. 
When ready to serve, cut up the breast of the chicken into neat little 
fillets, and the wings into lengths of about one inch and put them into 
the soup with some of the vegetables and reboil. Prepare some little 
round croutons of bread about a quarter of an inch thick and two inches 
in diameter, and fry these in clean boiling fat till a pretty golden colour. 
Cut some of the carrot and turnip into slices lengthwise about a quarter 



>62 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

of an inch thick, and then stamp them out with a fancy cutter ; dip them 
into a little of the boiling soup aud arrange them on the little croutons 
as shown in the engraving ; then dish up on a hot dish on a paper and 
serve with the soup, allowing one to each person. 

Special earthenware pots are kept for this soup, in which if used the 
soup is sent to table instead of a tureen. The soup is much nicer in the 
pot, and can always be served very hot. 

Soup a la Heine 
Consomme d la Heine 

Take some good Clear soup (vol. i.), that made from chicken and veal 
boilings is best ; clarify it, and when about to serve garnish it with a 
macedoine of cooked vegetables, shredded cucumber, tarragon and chervil 
(see recipe) and little quenelles (vol. i. page 51). The macedoine of- 
vegetables is kept pre pared in tins and bottles ready for use. Cut the 
cucumber into Julienne shreds, put them into cold water, with a pinch 
of salt and a tiny bit of soda, bring to the boil, simmer them till tender,, 
but they must not be broken ; strain off and use. 

Soup -with, little rolls a la Saxe 
Consomme aux petiis pains a la Saxe 

Prepare some good Clear soup (vol. i.) and serve it in a hot soup 
tureen, handing as a garnish little rolls prepared as below on a plate on 
a dish paper. 

Little Rolls for Soup A la Saxe. Take some dough for French 
bread (vol. i.) and make it up into shapes about the size of a pigeon's 
egg ; put these on to a floured baking tin, set to rise for fifteen minutes,, 
then bake them in a quick oven till a pale golden colour, which should 
take about twenty minutes ; then cut off the bottoms of the shapes,, 
scoop out the centres till quite free from crumbs, lightly brush them over 
with a little warm glaze, dust them over with a little grated Parmesan 
cheese and dry them in a moderate oven ; fill the space in the rolls with 
vegetables prepared as below, close them up, using a little white meat 
farce for the purpose, return them to the oven for about ten minutes, 
dish up on a hot dish on a paper and serve. Cut up into Julienne 
shreds some of the red part of a raw carrot, some leek, celery, and turnip, 
and blanch them separately in cold water with a little salt ; then drain 
them and fry the carrot, leek and celery in a slightly buttered stewpan 
for about ten to fifteen minutes, then cover with good-flavoured stock 



OF EXTRA EECIPES SOUPS 63 

and boil till tender, fry and boil the turnip separately as it will not 
require so long as the others to cook ; mix up all together, and use as- 
directed. 

Soup a la Trieste 
Consomme a la Trieste 

Take some Clear soup (vol. i.) and garnish it just before serving 
with plainly boiled sparghetti, tiny rounds of Savoury custard in red 
and white (vol. i. page 56) and long thin strips of picked and blanched 
tarragon and chervil leaves. 



II. THICK SOUPS 

Soup a l'Andalouse 
Potage a VAndalouse 

Take one pint of good Soubise sauce (vol. i.), one pint of tomato- 
pulp, eight ounces of raw whiting or fresh haddock freed from bone 
and skin, twelve raw sauce oysters pounded and mixed with their 
liquor, two ounces of Marshall's Creme de Riz, a saltspoonful of coralline 
pepper, the juice of one lemon, three wineglasses of white wine, three- 
pints of good-flavoured fish stock (vol. i.), and the bones from the fish 
tied up in a piece of muslin, a bunch of herbs (bayleaf, thyme, parsley), 
stir till boiling, then draw aside and simmer for about forty minutes - r 
remove the bones and add four raw yolks of eggs that have been stirred 
into half a pint of cream and one ounce of butter, and rub the contents of 
the pan through a tammy cloth, return to a stewpan, and place the pan in 
the bain-marie and stir occasionally until the mixture thickens, strain 
into a hot soup tureen and sprinkle in a few very finely shredded French 
red chillies and about two dozen crayfish bodies that have been cut 
up into thin slices; use at once while quite hot. Crayfish bodies are- 
kept prepared in bottles. 

Soup a l'Augustine 

Potage a l'Augustine 

Put into a stewpan three ounces of good butter, six large peeled ripe 
tomatoes cut up in dice shapes, also four leeks cut similarly and six 
peeled onions and a bunch of herbs ; fry with the pan covered down for 
twenty minutes, then add a quarter of an ounce of Marshall's Coralline 



64 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

Pepper, a few drops of liquid carmine, the puree of twelve Kriiger's 
appetit sild, a cooked lobster that is freed from bone and cut up into tiny 
dice pieces, and the creamy part from the head rubbed through a sieve ; 
add three ounces of Marshall's Creme de Kiz, half a pint of white wine, 
three quarts of good fish stock (vol. i.), and stir together till boiling, 
then simmer from forty minutes to one hour ; when cooked remove any 
fat, and pour into a hot soup tureen with a pint of hot cream and have 
some buttered rice (see recipe) garnished with cooked crayfish bodies or 
shrimps, handed on a plate. This is an excellent soup for parties. 



Bisque a la Grecque 
Bisque a la Grecque 

Take six or eight peeled and finely sliced onions and put them into , 
a stewpan with three ounces of butter, a quarter of an ounce of coralline 
pepper, and fry for about twenty minutes ; mix with it a quarter of a 
pound of Marshall's Creme de Riz, a bunch of herbs (bayleaf, thyme, 
parsley), and six or eight pounded peppercorns, six good-sized raw 
sliced tomatoes, twelve Christiania anchovies, half a pint of white wine, 
half a pound of raw fresh haddock freed from skin and finely chopped ; 
stir into this mixture three pints of good-flavoured fish stock (vol. i.), 
stir till it boils, and then allow it to simmer for about forty minutes ; 
colour with a few drops of liquid carmine, remove the herbs and rub 
altogether through a tammy, rewarm in the bain-marie, mix in a pint 
of warm single cream, add two or three dozen bearded oysters that 
have each been cut lengthwise into three or four slices, pour the puree 
into a hot soup tureen and serve with nicely fried croutons of bread that 
-are dished on a paper or napkin handed with it. 



Bisque a la Mancelle 
Bisque a la Mancelle 

Take a large cooked crab (or a large tin of prepared prawns) and 
half a pint of picked shrimps, remove the meat from the crab, and 
pound it till smooth with six Christiania anchovies and one ounce of 
live lobster spawn, then mix it with two quarts of good-flavoured fish 
stock prepared as below, rub it all together through a clean tammy cloth, 
make it quite hot in a bain-marie, and just before serving add to each 
quart two tablespoonfuls of cooked turtle or pieces of calf s head, and 



OF EXTRA RECIPES SOUPS 65 

the same of the prepared crayfish bodies cut in strips an inch in length, 
and add also half a pint of warm single cream, pour the puree into a 
hot soup tureen, and serve with croutons of bread that have been fried 
in clean boiling fat till a nice golden colour, and then brushed over 
with a little thin warm glaze, and dipped into grated Parmesan cheese 
and dished on a paper on a hot plate. 

Stock for Bisque A la Mancelle. Take any fish bones such as 
those from the crab, shrimps &c, put them into a stewpan with 
sufficient cold water to cover them, season with a little salt, a dozen 
black and white peppercorns, a bunch of herbs, and three or four sliced 
onions ; bring to the boil, skim and simmer it for four hours, and strain 
off. For each quart of soup take two ounces of Marshall's Creme de 
Riz, and mix it with a gill and a half of stock and stir all together 
on the fire till boiling, add to it three large tomatoes and three or four 
onions (that have been peeled, sliced, and fried in an ounce of butter 
till a pale golden colour), and sufficient liquid carmine to make the 
puree a pale salmon colour ; add enough coralline pepper to cover a 
threepenny piece, boil all together for about half an hour, mix with the 
pounded fish and use. 

Soup & la Bohenrienne 
Potage d la Bohemienne 

Put into a stewpan six peeled onions very finely sliced, three carrots 
sliced, two leeks, and fry with two ounces of salted butter, and two ounces 
of raw bacon minced, then add four raw sliced potatoes, one well washed 
and dried lettuce cut up into fine pieces, put some giblets and raw 
bones from pheasant or any birds (half a pound to a quart of gravy), 
then add one pint of Tomato sauce (vol. i.) and three ounces of 
Marshall's Creme de Riz, three quarts of any game gravy, one stick of 
cleansed celery, a bunch of herbs, and half a pound of birds' livers that 
are quite freed from gall ; stir till boiling, then simmer on the side of 
the stove for about an hour. Remove all the meat, bones, and- herbs, 
and any fat from the top of the soup, mix in a few drops of liquid 
carmine, enough to give a nice but not deep red colour, pound the meat 
which is taken from the giblets with the livers, then return it to the 
soup and with two tammy spoons rub the whole through a clean tammy 
cloth ; mix in two or three wineglasses of sherry and the strained juice 
of two lemons, rewarm in the bain-marie, pour into a hot soup tureen 
and serve with Profiteroles (vol. i.) on a separate plate to be handed 
round. 

F 



66 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

Cabbage and Partridge Soup 
Puree de Choux au Perdreau 

Trim a nice sound cabbage and split it into quarters; put it in a 
pan to blanch with enough cold water to cover it, add a pinch of salt, 
let it come to the boil, then wash it in cold water ; put it again into 
enough boiling water to cover it, and let it partly cook (say for fifteen 
minutes) ; strain off and press all the water from it, put it into a stew- 
pan with about two quarts of nicely flavoured game or poultry stock 
(vol. i.) and two raw trussed partridges, and cook till tender ; any pieces 
of cooked or raw bird may be put to boil to give flavour. When these 
are cooked, take out the bird, and let it get a little cool, and cut the 
meat off it in fillets to serve in the soup. Strain the cabbage from the 
stock, and pound till smooth. Mix a large tablespoonful of Marshall's 
Creme de Riz with a quarter of a pint of cold stock and add it to the 
stock from the cabbage &c. ; add additional stock if required to make 
up the quantity to two quarts ; boil it up and mix with the pounded 
cabbage, and pass the whole through the tammy. Put the puree to 
get quite hot in the bain-marie. Cut up about two ounces of raw ham 
or bacon into little dice shapes ; fry these ] till crisp in a pan ; drain 
them from the fat, and add them and the little fillets from the bird to 
the soup just as it is to be served. Serve quite hot. 



Cheese Soup 
Potage au Fromage 

Put into a clean soup pan two ounces of butter, one large long 
lettuce that is well washed and dried and cut into Julienne strips, 
three peeled and minced onions, two minced leeks, three ounces of 
cooked chicken or any white meat cut in small dice shapes ; fry over a 
moderate fire for fifteen to twenty minutes, then add two ounces of 
Marshall's Creme de Riz and three quarts of white stock, half a pound 
of the meat from cooked calves' feet cut up into tiny dice shapes ; stir 
together till boiling, then simmer for about an hour, mix into it about 
five minutes before serving a quarter of a pound of Gruyere cheese and 
a quarter of a pound of Parmesan cheese that are cut up into little 
dice, also half a pint of hot thick cream ; bring to the boil, then pour 
into a hot soup tureen, and serve with croutons of fried bread handed 
on a plate. 



OF EXTRA RECIPES SOUPS 67 

Chestnut Soup 
Puree cle Marrons 

Cut off the tops of the chestnuts and bake them for about fifteen 
minutes, then, while they are hot, skin and pound them, and to each 
pound of chestnuts add two pints and a half of veal or chicken stock, a 
bunch of herbs, and four sliced onions fried in two ounces of butter ; boil 
all together for an hour and a half, then pound it and pass through 
the tammy, and add another pint of stock to it for each pound of chest- 
nuts. Place the puree in a pan in the bain-marie in hot water (but do 
not let it boil), and thicken each quart of puree with half a pint of cream 
that is mixed with an ounce of butter and three raw yolks of eggs. A 
wineglassful of sherry to each quart of soup can be added if liked. 
Care must be taken that the puree does not boil after the cream is 
added, or it will curdle. Strain into the soup tureen, add a pinch of 
castor sugar and a little carmine, and serve with little pea quenelles 
(vol. i. page 51) in the soup and croutons on a plate on a dish paper. 

Puree of Chicken a la Napolitaine 
Farce <le Poulet a la Na/politavM 

Pound in a mortar one pound of cooked chicken, which is freed 
from skin. Pound separately half a pound of Valentia almonds, which 
have been blanched (vol. i. page 323) and their skins removed ; mix the 
pounded chicken with the almonds, add a pinch of salt, four raw yolks 
of egg, three pints of well-flavoured white stock (vol. i.) either from 
veal, rabbit, or chicken, and a pint of single cream ; then stir altogether, 
and pass the puree through the tammy cloth, taking care to pass as much 
as possible of the meat and almonds. Put this prepared puree into a 
clean saucepan, and stand it in the bain-marie on the stove, give it an 
occasional stir with a clean wooden spoon, and when it becomes quite 
hot it will thicken. Garnish the puree with a tablespoonful of fine 
shreds of cooked chicken cut in lengths of about one inch, a dessert- 
spoonful of ox tongue similarly cut, and a tablespoonful of picked parsley 
leaves. 

Duck Soup a la Rowen 

Pot age de Caneton d la Ho wen 

Put into a stewpan four onions peeled and cut into Julienne shreds, 
two leeks, two cleansed green capsicums, two shrelded French gherkins, 

v 2 



68 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

the finely shredded peel of one orange freed from pith, and the strained 
juice of four oranges ; take the meat from a cooked duck, free it from 
skin and bones, and cut it into shreds like Julienne, add one pint of 
good Brown sauce (vol. i.), two wineglasses of sherry, three quarts of good- 
flavoured Gravy stock (vol. i.) ; put the bones and skin from the duck 
into a piece of muslin with a bunch of herbs, and simmer in the liquor, 
boil steadily for one hour, during which time keep skimmed now and 
again ; then add the puree from six tomatoes, and a quarter of a pound of 
cooked Patna rice, bring to the boil, remove the herbs &c. in the muslin 
and pour the soup into a hot tureen. This is an excellent method of 
using up any other birds, such as pheasant &c. 

Dunbar Cream 

Crdme a la Dunbar 

Take some really well-flavoured chicken, veal or rabbit stock 
(vol. i.), allowing about one quart to four persons ; bring this to the 
boil, and for each quart add two ounces of Marshall's Creme de Riz which 
has been mixed in a basin with two gills and a half of cold stock and 
a saltspoonful of Marshall's Coralline Pepper ; stir these together over 
the fire till the mixture boils, then let it simmer gently on the side of 
the stove for about ten minutes, mix with it the contents of one quart 
tin of okra, 1 four large sliced tomatoes, one wineglass of white wine, 
and three raw yolks of eggs that have been mixed with half a pint 
of single cream. Rub all this together through a clean tammy cloth 
and put it into the bain-marie to get quite hot. Cut some savoury 
custard (vol. i. page 56) in any little fancy shapes and add them with, 
for each quart, one dozen sauce oysters that have been cut into three or 
four pieces, together with the strained liquor from the same that has- 
been made hot in the bain-marie. Serve at once. 



Cream a la Dauphine 

Creme d la Dauphine 

Put into a clean stewpan four peeled and sliced onions, two ounces 
of good butter, a quarter-ounce of Marshall's Coralline Pepper, and a 
bunch of fresh green mint, and fry altogether for about fifteen minutes ; 
add to this one quart of freshly-shelled or preserved green peas, stir in 

} Okra, or gumbo, is largely cultivated in the Southern States (U.S.A.) for its green 
seed pods for using in soups or serving as a vegetable, and is imported to this country 
in tins. 



OF EXTRA RECIPES SOUPS 69 

two ounces of Marshall's Creme de Riz, cover with two quarts of good 
flavoured rabbit, chicken, or veal stock, and one pint of tomato pulp, 
and stir it on the side of the stove till it boils ; then place the cover 
on the pan and let the contents simmer for about forty minutes ; remove 
the herbs and rub the puree through a clean tammy cloth, make it quite 
hot again in the bain-marie, and add to it a pint of single cream that 
has been mixed with three raw yolks of eggs, stir altogether again till 
it thickens, then strain through a pointed strainer into the soup tureen ; 
garnish with Julienne cut vegetables (vol. i. page 31), and similarly 
cut shapes of lean cooked ham, and serve with croutons (see recipe) on 
a plate on a dish-paper or napkin. 

Cream a la Ferdinand 
Creme a la Ferdinand 

Take three ounces of good butter, a bunch of herbs (thyme, bay- 
leaf, and parsley), a quarter of an ounce of Marshall's Coralline Pepper, 
and six peeled and finely sliced onions ; fry these together till a nice 
brown colour, then add six large sliced tomatoes, one pound of blanched 
asparagus (or the contents of oue large tin), and a quarter of a pound 
of Marshall's Creme de Riz ; stir well together, colour with carmine a 
nice light pink colour, then add two ounces of good glaze, the juice 
of two large lemons, and three quarts of good-flavoured stock either 
from veal, rabbit, or chicken, stir till boiling, then simmer gently for 
one [hour, during which time keep skimmed ; then take up the herbs, 
rub the remaining contents through a clean tammy cloth, and then put 
the puree into the bain-marie to get hot. Put one pint of stock into a 
stewpan, bring it to the boil, mix into it three ounces of French sago 
or tapioca, stir till reboiling, then simmer it gently on the side of the 
stove for about ten minutes ; add this to the prepared puree with half 
a pint of warm single cream, and half a pint of very finely cut mixed 
Brunoise-shaped vegetables (vol. i.), such as carrot, turnip, and leek, 
that have been blanched, drained, fried separately in pans with a tiny 
bit of butter, and then cooked together in a little nice-flavoured stock 
with a little salt till tender. 



Cream Ferneuse 
Creme Ferneuse 

Cut four large peeled onions into Julienne shreds, also two cleansed 
leeks, and put them into a stewpan with two ounces of butter and fry 



70 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

them till a very pale golden colour, then mix in two ounces of Marshall'^ 
Creme de'Riz, a bunch of herbs tied up in a piece of muslin with two 
ounces of lean bacon or odds and ends of cooked ham, then add one quart 
of new milk and two quarts of veal or chicken stock ; stir till the 
contents boil, then let them simmer gently on the side oi the stove for 
about one hour. Put into another stewpan one finely shredded, cleansed 
stick of celery, four peeled and sliced turnips, and four large peeled 
potatoes, and simmer these gently till tender in four pints of light stock 
or milk, with twelve pounded raw oysters and the liquor from the 
oysters ; when these ingredients are quite tender rub them through 
a tammy and add to the other pan, first removing the herbs &c. in the 
muslin, then mix in one pint of warm cream and a tablespoonful of tiny 
blanched leaves of picked chervil, and serve at once with Croutons a la 
Julienne (see recipe) handed on a plate. 

Cream a la St. Louis 
Creme d la St. Louis 

Cut into very thin slices two cleansed leeks', six peeled onions, six 
cleansed Jerusalem artichokes, three peeled turnips, four large peeled 
potatoes, and two ounces of raw lean bacon, and put them into a stew- 
pan with a bunch of herbs (thyme, parsley, and bayleaf) and two ounces 
of butter ; fry these till a nice golden colour, then mix in three ounces 
of Marshall's Creme de Riz, two cut-up green capsicums, a quarter 
of an ounce of Marshall's Coralline Pepper, and three quarts of good- 
flavoured light stock (that in which veal, rabbit, or chicken has been 
boiled) ; let these simmer till tender, which will take about an hour, 
during which time keep the fat skimmed from the top ; then rub all 
through a clean tammy cloth and put it into the bain-marie till quite 
hot. Mix a pint of warm single cream into the soup . just before 
serving, and three tablespoonfuls of cooked carrot in Julienne shreds. 

Cream a la Milton 

Crdme a la Milton 

Put into a stewpan four peeled and finely minced onions, three 
ounces of butter ; fry for about ten minutes, then add a bunch of herbs 
tied in a piece of muslin with a blade of mace and two ounces of bacon 
bones, add half a pound of blanched Carolina rice, two chopped French 
red chillies freed from pips, three quarts of light stock; stir till boiling, 
then simmer for one hour, and remove the muslin with its contents ;. 



OF EXTRA RECIPES SOUPS 71 

mix into the soup a quarter of a pound of grated Parmesan cheese, stir till 
reboiling, and then add four raw yolks of eggs that have been whipped 
up well with a pint of hot cream and strained into the soup ; pour 
into a hot soup tureen and serve quite hot. 



Soup a la Carlton 
Poiage d la < 'arlfon 

Put into a clean stewpan two ounces of good butter, a quarter of a 
pound of lean raw ham or bacon cut up into fine slices, a bunch of 
herbs (bayleaf, thyme, and parsley), six peeled and finely sliced onions, 
four sliced and peeled potatoes ; fry all together for about twenty minutes, 
then mix into it a quarter of a pound of Marshall's Creme de lliz, one 
pint of good Tomato sauce (vol. i.), five pints of chicken, veal, or rabbit 
stock, and a quarter of an ounce of coralline pepper ; stir over the fire 
till boiling, then draw the pan to the edge of the stove and let the 
contents simmer for about an hour, keeping the scum well removed; 
then rub altogether through the tammy, make quite hot in the bain- 
marie, and just before serving add to it a pint of warm single cream 
that is mixed with two wineglassfuls of sherry and four raw yolks of 
eggs, stir again in the bain-marie till it thickens, and strain into the 
soup tureen, and send to table very hot. Serve some fried croutons of 
bread piled on a hot plate on a napkin or dish-paper with the soup. 



French Bean Soup 
run',' de Haricots VerU 

Put two ounces of the fat from fried bacon or two ounces of butter 
in a pan with a bunch of herbs (thyme, bayleaf, and parsley), and six 
good-sized sliced onions ; fry these for about fifteen minutes, but they 
must not be at all discoloured ; add to this one tablespoonful of Creme 
de Riz and three pints of white stock, also one pound of French beans 
that have been cut up small and blanched, and a pinch of salt ; let this 
boil altogether (keeping it well skimmed while boiling) for rather better 
than half an hour ; pass through the tammy ; put the puree into the 
bain-marie, and when quite hot mix it with half a pint of warm cream 
that is mixed with three raw yolks of eggs and an ounce of butter ; 
stir in the bain-marie till it thickens, then strain into the tureen and 
serve with little fried croutons of bread. When you have not got fresh 
beans use the bottled or tinned ones. 



79 



MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 



Friar Tuck Soup 
Potage d la Friar Tuck 

Take two or three quarts of good-flavoured white stock in which 
veal, rabbit, or chicken has been boiled, allowing rather better than a 
quarter of a pint to each person, put it into a stewpan to boil ; then 
cut a young cleansed chicken into little pieces, pick a handful of fresh 
parsley and the same quantity of chervil into little leaves, and add 
these to the soup with two nice fresh young leeks in Julienne shreds ; 
let these boil together for about half an hour, then remove the pieces 
of fowl from the pan, and keep the liquor hot in the bain-marie. Take 
four or five fresh eggs and beat them with a whisk into a smooth con- 
sistency, then mix them with the soup and stir until the mixture 
thickens, but it must not be allowed to boil. Cut the pieces of chicken 
into nice neat slices, freeing them entirely from bone and skin, and 
add these to the soup ; season with a little salt and mignonette pepper 
and serve. Have some little fried croutons of bread dished on a napkin 
on a plate and handed with the soup. Should the soup be too thick 
add a little more stock. The soup should be about as thick as cream 
when served. 

Soup a la Frankfort 
Puree d la Frankfort 

Peel off the skin from two or three good-sized cucumbers, and 
remove the seedy part; cut them up in thin slices and place them 
in a clean stewpan with two ounces of butter, three good -sized peeled 
and sliced onions, a bunch of herbs, one pound of well-washed and 
cleansed asparagus, and half a pound of well-washed fresh white 
button mushrooms ; fry these all together, with the stewpan covered 
down, for about twenty minutes, then add half a pound of cooked 
chicken or rabbit, a quarter of a pound of lean bacon that has been 
minced very finely, two ounces of Marshall's Creme de Riz, and three 
quarts of good-flavoured white stock from veal, rabbit, or chicken; 
stir together till it boils, then let it simmer gently on the side of the 
stove for about half an hour, remove the chicken and bacon and pound 
them together, add again to the soup, then rub all through the tammy. 
Make hot in the bain-marie, and just before serving add a pint of warm 
single cream that has been mixed with six raw yolks of eggs, and stir 
together in the bain-marie till the soup thickens, but do not let it boil ; 
strain into the soup tureen through a strainer, serve with Asparagus 
peas (see recipe) in the puree, and croutons handed on a plate on a 
napkin. The above quantity is sufficient for twelve persons. 



OF EXTRA RECIPES SOUPS 73 

Game Soup 
Puree de Gibier 

Put five or six large sliced onions in a stewpan with two ounces of 
butter, a good bunch of herbs (thyme, parsley, basil, and marjoram) and 
& few strips of celery and leek ; fry these together till a nice golden 
colour, then mix in four ounces of Marshall's Creme de Riz and a pound 
and a half or two pounds of either cooked or raw game or poultry bones, 
tied up in a piece of muslin ; add four quarts of good-flavoured brown 
stock (game gravy is the best to use) and simmer steadily on the side 
of the stove for about an hour or an hour and a half, keeping skimmed 
while boiling ; then take up the bones, remove the meat and pound it till 
smooth, then pound the vegetables and mix together and add it to the 
puree and pass all through a tammy ; rewarm in the bain-marie, garnish 
with pieces of pink and white royal (vol. i. page 53) cut in any fancy 
.shapes, and have croutons of fried bread handed on a plate on a paper. 
The soup can be flavoured just as it is about to be served with a wineglass 
of port or sherry. 

Holstein Soup 
Potufje d I" Holstein 

Put into a stewpan two large cleansed leeks cut up into dice shapes, 
two ounces of good butter, three onions, a bunch of herbs, a pinch of 
mignonette pepper, a stick of crisp well-washed and cut-up celery, fry 
together for fifteen to twenty minutes, then add half a pound of pearl 
barley and four quarts of good-flavoured stock from boiled veal, rabbit 
or chicken, stir till boiling, then simmer for two and a half to three 
hours, during the cooking remove any scum rising up ; when the barley 
is tender add one pint of warm single cream, a quarter of a pint of 
cooked Asparagus peas (see recipe), a quarter of a pint of cooked green 
peas, and French beans cut up in small dice pieces, and half a pint of 
freshly cooked (or the 'prepared) crayfish bodies that are cut through 
each into four portions ; pour the soup into a hot soup tureen and have 
some glazed croutons with Parmesan cheese (see recipe) handed round. 

Thick Mullagatawny Soup 
Potage Mullagatawny 

Take six large peeled and finely sliced onions, four washed and 
dried fresh mushrooms, two large tomatoes, three large sour apples or a 
small handful of sour gooseberries, a bunch of herbs (thyme, parsley, 



74 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

and bay leaf), and a good plateful of any nice cooked or raw game or 
poultry bones, or a cut-up chicken ; fry these together in a stewpan for 
fifteen minutes in two ounces of butter, add the juice of one large lemon, 
two red dry chillies pounded, one and a half tablespoonfuls of Marshall's 
Curry Powder, a dessertspoonful of tamarinds, a saltspoonful of ground 
ginger, and two ounces of Marshall's CrSme de Riz ; cover this with two 
and a half to three quarts of good-flavoured stock made from cooked 
meat bones ; replace the pan on the stove, bring the contents gently 
to the boil, then skim, and let the soup boil on the side of the stove 
for about an hour and a half, occasionally skimming it. When cooked 
remove the meat from the pan and reserve the best parts (which can 
be cut in thin slices and then stamped out with a plain round cutter) 
for serving in the soup ; take the remaining meat from the bones and 
strain the stock from the Vegetables in the pan, then pound the vege- 
tables with the meat, and mix it again with the stock ; then rub all 
through the tammy, returning the puree to the stewpan. Place it in a 
bain-marie to get hot and serve with the pieces of meat in it, and have 
plainly boiled hot rice (see recipe) handed on a plate on a napkin. 

Soup a la Milan 
Potage & la Milan 

Put into a clean 3tewpan two ounces of butter, two ounces of lean 
ham cooked or raw that is cut up into fine Julienne shreds, one cleansed 
stick of celery, the red part of one large carrot, three large peeled 
potatoes, one turnip, one leek, and four large onions, all the vegetables 
being cut like the bacon ; fry together over a quick fire but do not brown, 
then sprinkle in two ounces of Marshall's Creme de Riz, add one quart of 
new milk, two quarts of light stock from veal boilings &c, stir till boil- 
ing, then gently simmer for one hour. Put into a basin four raw yolks 
of eggs and two ounces of grated Parmesan cheese mixed with a pint of 
warm single cream ; stir this into a pan containing one pint of boiling 
light stock, then cook in the bain-marie till thick, and strain into the pre- 
paration of vegetables, sprinkle in the soup a dust of coralline pepper, 
add the juice of one lemon and serve in a hot soup tureen. 

Green Pea Soup 
, Puree de Petits Pois 

Put a pint and a half of shelled peas in about two quarts of cold 
water with a dessertspoonful of salt and a piece of soda the size of a 



OF EXTRA EECIPES SOUPS 75- 

pea ; just let these come to the boil, then strain off and put them in a 
stewpan with about two ounces of cooking butter, two good-sized 
onions sliced, one lettuce that has been well washed and dried and cut 
up in lengths of about one inch, and a pint and a half of the pea- 
shells ; tie up a bunch of herbs, such as thyme, parsley, bayleaf, and 
mint. Fry all together for about fifteen minutes over a moderate fire, 
then mix with them a tablespoonful of creme de riz. Add about threo 
pints or two quarts of stock, or the stock from boiled veal, rabbit, or 
chicken would do if you have no ordinary stock. Cook altogether for 
rather better than half an hour, strain off the stock and rub the- 
vegetables through a hair sieve (or a tammy would be better) ; the 
colour would be improved by adding a little of Marshall's Apple Green. 
Whilst the mixture is being passed through the sieve or tammy add a 
little of the stock to moisten it; when it is all passed add the liquid, 
and put it in the bain-marie or in a saucepan which is standing in a 
pan of hot water on the stove. Cook about three-quarters of a pint of 
peas in boiling water for fifteen minutes with a tiny pinch of soda 
and salt to season ; then strain and serve in the soup. If you have 
any cream half a pint will greatly enrich the puree; the cream must be 
warmed, and each half-pint should be mixed on to three raw yolks of 
eggs, one ounce of butter, and a tiny pinch of sugar, then poured into 
the pea puree and mixed well together ; warm the soup again in the 
bain-marie after the eggs and cream are added but do not boil, and strain 
into the tureen. 



Maltese Soup 
Puree d la Maltese 

Take, for six to eight persons, four large tablespoonfuls of 
cooked white meat farce (any left from a previous meal will do) ; put 
half a pint of boiling new milk in the bain-marie to infuse, with as much 
saffron as will cover a threepenny-piece, for ten minutes, then strain 
off, and mix the farce with this and the raw yolks of four eggs and one 
ounce of fresh butter ; put one quart of good-flavoured veal or other 
white stock to boil ; then mix in it two ounces of Marshall's Creme 
de Eiz that has been previously mixed with a pint of cold white stock 
into a smooth paste ; stir these together till boiling, add the farce, and 
two wineglasses of white wine, then rub altogether through a tammy 
cloth. Keplace the puree into a clean stewpan in the bain-marie and 
make it quite hot, giving it an occasional stir; mix with it half a 
pint of hot cream and a pinch of salt if needed, and, when ready to 



76 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

serve, add one finely-shredded green capsicum, one red French chilli, 
and the very finely cut slices of four oranges from which the skin 
and pips have been removed ; cut the yellow of the peels of the oranges, 
very thinly, into Julienne shreds about an inch long, put into a stewpan 
with cold water and a little salt, just bring to the boil, then strain, rinse 
well in cold water, and add to the soup. It is then ready to serve. 

Rockaway Soup 
Potage a la Rockaway 

Take four well-washed and dried fresh lettuces and cut them into 
very fine shreds ; put these into a stewpan with two ounces of butter, a 
bunch of herbs, four peeled onions (that have been cut into quarters and 
then very finely shredded), the heart from a stick of celery (when in 
season), a pinch of salt, and a saltspoonful of mignonette pepper ; fry 
these together over a slow fire for twenty minutes, then mix with it two 
ounces of Marshall's Creme de Biz and two quarts of any nicely flavoured 
white stock (that from boiled veal, rabbit, or chicken will do) ; stir 
these together over the fire, and when they come to the boil let them 
simmer gently on the side of the stove for three-quarters of an hour, 
keeping occasionally skimmed while boiling ; then, just before serving, 
add to the soup half a pint of warm single cream and two table- 
spoonfuls of finely shredded cooked chicken or rabbit. Hand some 
Rockaway Eggs on a plate on a napkin, allowing one to each person, 
and serve. 

Rockaway Eggs. Put some new-laid eggs into a stewpan with suffi- 
cient boiling water to cover them, boil for three and a^half minutes, then 
take up and put them into cold water ; crack the shells all round, and 




carefully remove the eggs without breaking them. Dish up each on a fried 
crouton, sprinkle with a little chopped parsley, and use on a folded napkin 
or paper. These eggs are also nice to serve as a breakfast dish. 

Saratoga Soup 

Potage a la Saratoga 

Take four onions and two cleansed leeks that are cut into small dice 
shapes, and a bunch of herbs, and fry them together in two ounces of 



OF EXTRA RECIPES SOUPS 77 

butter till a nice golden colour ; then remove the herbs, mix in the 
contents of a quart tin of Okra, four tomatoes cut up into dice shapes, 
three French red chillies, freed from pips and cut into fine shreds, four 
small capsicums cut in a similar manner, four ounces of any Cooked 
game or poultry cut into shreds, and the strained juice of two lemons. 
Mix this with two quarts of good-flavoured chicken, veal, or rabbit stock, 
and simmer on the side of the stove for about forty minutes. Put into 
another stewpan a quart of the same stock, stir in two ounces of arrow- 
root that has been mixed with half a pint of cold stock, stir over the 
fire till boiling, then add to the first prepared soup, colour with a few 
drops of carmine, and serve. 

Soup a la Szegedin 
Potage d la Szegedin 

Take four large or six small peeled onions, a bunch of herbs (thyme 
parsley, and bay leaf), a stick of cleansed celery, and two leeks cut up 
fine ; put these all together in a stewpan with three ounces of butter and 
fry till a pale golden colour, then add six sliced tomatoes, the juice of 
two lemons, a quarter of an ounce of Marshall's Coralline Pepper, a 
saltspoonful of carmine, two ounces of Marshall's Creme de Riz, the beards 
and liquor from one and a half to two dozen sauce oysters, four boned 
and pounded Christiania anchovies, one pound of cooked or raw game 
or poultry, and two quarts of any nice-flavoured White stock (vol. i.) 
from boiled rabbit, chicken &c. Bring these ingredients to the boil, 
then simmer them gently till tender, remove the meat, then add to the 
stock the oysters that have been pounded to a puree, and rub altogether 
through a clean tammy ; then put the soup into a bain-marie to get hot. 
Have some of the meat that was cooked in the soup cut up into very fine 
shreds, also some cooked macedoine of vegetables, and serve these with 
plainly boiled rice (vol. i. Pice for Curry), on a dish on a paper or 
napkin, first slightly sprinkling them with coralline pepper and finely 
chopped parsley. 

Thick Victoria Soup 

Puree a la Victoria 

Put two ounces of butter in a stewpan with two or three sliced 
onions, a little bunch of herbs such as thyme, parsley, bayleaf, and ten 
or twelve good-sized sliced potatoes ; fry all together till a pale golden 
colour, then add about three pints of good light stock from veal, rabbit, 
or chicken ; let it come gently to the boil, skim the stock, cover up the 
pan, and let it simmer on gently for about half an hour ; pass the puree 



78 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

through a tammy or very fine hair sieve ; put it then into the bain-marie, 
and when it is quite hot add, for each quart of the puree, half a pint of 
warm single cream mixed with three raw yolks of egg and one ounce of 
butter ; stir in the bain-marie till it thickens ; strain into the tureen 
and garnish with prepared shredded lettuce. Have the heart of a 
large lettuce washed and dried, cut up in fine shreds, and fried in two 
ounces of butter for about ten minutes ; put it in half a pint of stock, 
boil for about fifteen minutes, keeping it well skimmed, and then add it 
to the soup and serve hot. 



OF EXTRA EECIPES DRESSED FISH AND FISH ENTREES 79 



CHAPTER IV 

DRESSED FISH AND FISH ENTREES 

See also Chapters V. VI. VII. 

Codfish with Black Butter 
Cabillaud a/u Beurre Now 

Take a slice of codfish with a portion of the liver attached, if 
possible ; put it in salt and cold water for about one hour before cook- 
ing ; then tie it up with a piece of tape and put it into a stewpan with 
enough boiling water to cover it; season with a little salt and a little 
lemon juice, add a slice or two of carrot, onion, leek, celery, turnip, and 
a bunch of herbs, such as thyme, parsley, and bayleaf, and six or eight 
peppercorns, tying all these in a little piece of muslin ; let this simmer 
gently for ten minutes; when cooked take up the fish, and place it on 
the dish on which it is to be served ; sprinkle over a little mignonette 
pepper, and serve with Black butter (vol. i.) over it. This can be 
.served for a breakfast, luncheon, or dinner fish. 

Fillets of Cod a la Sandringham 
Filets cle Cabitta/ud '1 b< Sandringham 

Take some slices of fresh cod and truss them in a round form, dry 
them in a clean cloth, season them with salad oil, Marshall's Coralline 
Pepper, salt, chopped eschalot washed and finely chopped fresh mushroom, 
fold in well-buttered foolscap paper, turn the edges in securely, and grill 
them on oiled straws in front of a clear fire for twenty to twenty-five 
minutes, then take up, place the fillets on a hot dish, pour the prepared 
sauce round, sprinkle on it some prepared crayfish bodies (allowing two 
or three to each person) over the sauce and serve quite hot for dinner or 
luncheon. 

Sauce for Cod A la Sandringham. Take half a pint of boiling 
Veloute sauce (vol. i.), add to it a teaspoonful of French mustard, the 
same of mixed English ditto, two ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, 
and the liquor from the fillets ; bring to the boil, tammy and use. 



80 -MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

Fillets of Cod a la Victoria 
Filets de Cabillaud d la Victoria 

Take one or two slices of cod about an inch and a half thick, 
truss up with string and tie in round form, allowing a piece of the 
liver to each fillet ; place them in a clean buttered baking tin, pour 
over them two tablespoonfuls of strained lemon juice, sprinkle over 
with a little coralline pepper and salt, cover with a well-buttered paper 
and stand the tin in another containing boiling water, and cook the 
fillets in a moderate oven for fifteen to twenty minutes. Arrange a 
puree of potato on a hot dish by means of a forcing bag with a large 
rose pipe, place the fillets on this, garnish the sides of the fillets with 
the same puree and serve with sauce prepared as below while quite hot 
for dinner or luncheon. 

Sauce for Cod a la Victoria. Stir the liquor in which the fillets 
were cooked on to two ounces of butter and the same of fine flour that 
have been fried together without browning, add a quarter of an ounce 
of pounded live spawn, three-quarters of a pint of light fish stock or 
water, the puree from six Christiania anchovies, and a pinch of salt and 
coralline pepper ; stir all together till it boils, tammy, rewarm and serve. 

Dressed Crab 

Crabe Dress? 

Put a fresh crab into a stewpan and boil it in slightly salted water 
for thirty to forty minutes according to the size of the fish ; when 
cooked take it up and set it aside till cold, then remove the large 
and small claws, crack the large claw-shells and remove all the bone 




away, and with a fork carefully remove all the inside, making it 
quite crumby, and, separating all the pieces carefully, put aside about 
two tablespoonfuls of this to use later on ; join all the little claws 
together and reserve them for twisting round the crab when it is dished 



OF EXTRA RECIPES DRESSED FISH AND FISH ENTREES 81 

up. This forms a very pretty garnish. Take all the creamy part from the 
body of the crab, throw away the bag which will be found inside the 
case near the head ; chop up all the creamy part and then put it in a 
basin with that from the claws, and add for seasoning a dessertspoonful 
-of anchovy essence, a tablespoonful of French tarragon vinegar and 
the same of chilli, one tablespoonful of salad oil, a teaspoonful of mixed 
English and the same of French mustard, a dust of cayenne pepper, a 
pinch of salt, two tablespoonfuls of stiffly-whipped cream, the strained 
juice of one lemon, a pinch of castor sugar, a little fresh chopped 
tarragon and chervil ; stir altogether with a wooden spoon, and with it 
fill up the body case of the crab that has been well washed and dried, 
piling it up well in the centre. Take that, set aside from the large 
claws and lightly sprinkle it over this creamy part, place the case thus 
filled on a dish on a paper, arrange the little claws around it, and here 
and there garnish it with sprigs of raw green parsley, and serve for 
breakfast, luncheon, or second course, ball suppers, &c. 



Timbal of Crab a la Rosette 

Timbale de Crabe d la Rosette 

Take a plain timbal mould, put it on ice in a basin and line it 
about an eighth of an inch thick with Aspic jelly (vol. i.), ornament the 
bottom of the mould one inch deep, as in engraving, with plainly cooked 
vegetables, such as macedoine, carrots, turnips, cucumber, and French 
beans, cut in lengths about half an inch long, and about the thickness 
of a thick straw ; place round the edge of these a ring of cucumber 




peas or green peas, set this garnish with a little aspic jelly, then pour 
into the mould a layer of crab puree (prawn or lobster), as below, to 
about the same depth as the vegetables ; let this partly set, then arrange 
on the side of the mould another layer of the vegetables of the same 
depth as the preceding layers in a slanting direction from left to right, 
pour in a little aspic to set it, then add another layer in a contrary 



82 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

direction (see engraving), set with aspic, fill up the mould with crab 
puree, and put aside till the contents are set. When ready to dish up, 
dip the moulds into hot water, pass a clean cloth over the bottom to 
absorb any moisture, turn out in the centre of a cold entree dish ; place 
little rounds of aspic jelly all round the base, garnish each corner of 
the dish with a cooked macedoine of vegetables mixed with a thick 
Mayonnaise sauce (vol. i.), place on the top of each of these bunches 
some plainly cooked prawns, and serve for an entree or second-course 
dish, or for a cold collation. 

Crab Puree. Remove the bones from a small freshly cooked crab 
and with a fork take all the meat out of it, put this into a basin and 
mix with it a dust of Marshall's Coralline Pepper, a saltspoonful of salt, 
a teaspoonful of French and English mustard, a dessertspoonful of 
anchovy essence, and a table3poonful of tarragon vinegar ; pound all 
together till quite smooth, add a few drops of liquid carmine, half 
a gill of cream, and two gills and a half of liquid aspic jelly; rub all 
together through a fine hair sieve and use as described above. 



Eel a la Broche 

Aihjiiilh' it la Broche 

Skin and bone a large fresh eel and cut into nice pieces about two 
inches long, open them and bat them out well with a cold wet chopping 
knife,. and dip each into a little warm butter, and mask the inside with a 
layer of the prepared puree not quite a quarter of an inch thick ; wrap 
each piece separately in a piece of pork caul, dust over with Marshall's 
Creme de Riz, dip into whole raw beaten-up egg, sprinkle the farced side 
with a little grated Parmesan cheese, put the fish into a well-buttered 
saute pan and cook them in a moderate oven for fifteen to twenty 
minutes, then take up, sprinkle over a little warm glaze, dish them on 
a hot dish on a nice hot bed of Cheese cream sauce, sprinkle over them 
a little fresh green parsley and coralline pepper, and serve at once for a 
second-course or luncheon dish. The bones from the fish can be used 
for fish stock. 

PurEe for Eel A la Broche. Rub six Christiania anchovies through 
a fine wire sieve, mix with them two hard-boiled yolks of eggs also rubbed 
through a sieve, a dessertspoonful of finely chopped fresh green parsley, 
one chopped eschalot, two washed, dried, and chopped fresh mushrooms, 
one ounce of warm butter, a dust of coralline pepper and salt, and one 
whole raw egg; mix all together and use as directed. 



OF EXTRA RECIPES DRESSED FISH AND FISH ENTREES 83 

Eel in Jelly a la Dieppe 

Anguille en Gelee a la Dieppe 

Skin and bone a good-sized eel, lay it open on a dish, and farce it, 
by means of a forcing bag and pipe, with the prepared farce ; to do this 
spread out the farce in a long strip, then place in the centre of it any 
nice pieces of cold cooked fish, such as lobster, sole, oysters, and also 
some farced olives ; roll the eel up with the farce inside, sew up the fish 
so that the farce cannot escape, truss it with tape in a round form, put 
it in a piece of buttered muslin, and place it in a pan, with sufficient 
boiling fish stock to cover it ; add a few vegetables, such as carrot, 
onion, celery, and herbs, and boil for twenty-five to thirty minutes, ac- 
cording to the size of the eel ; then take up, and when cold remove the 
tape &c, mask it over with Mayonnaise aspic (vol. i.), and, when cold, 




ornament it straight down the back with truffles, coral, and French 
gherkin, French red chillies, and hard-boiled] white of egg. Set this 
with a little Aspic jelly (vol. i.), then dish up the eel, as in engraving, 
on aspic that is coloured an olive shade with Marshall's Sap Green, and 
garnish the centre with any nice salad or a macedoine of mixed vege- 
tables, olives, anchovies, and chopped jelly. Arrange round the base 
of the dish two rows of little blocks of aspic jelly, forcing between 
each a little chopped aspic jelly ; place in the eel at regular intervals 
some hatelet skewers, and serve for dinner, luncheon, or for a cold 
collation. Glass eyes can be used to garnish the fish if they are 
obtainable. 

Farce for Eel a la Dieppe. Pound four ounces of raw plaice 
or any white fish with four ounces of Panard (vol. i.), and three 
raw yolks of eggs till smooth, season with salt and a little coralline 
pepper, and rub through a sieve ; then mix with a few drops of 
camiine, a saltspoonful of anchovy essence and chopped parsley, and 
use. 

g 2 



84 MRS A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

Eel a l'Epicurien 
Anguille d l'Epicurien 

Take a jar or bottle of prepared eels, open it, dip into hot water and 
turn out the contents, dip each piece of eel separately into finely sifted 
flour ; put into a stewpan half a pint of good Espagnol sauce (vol. i.), 
a wineglassful of claret, two finely chopped eschalots, two or three 
washed fresh mushrooms and six pounded Christiania anchovies, and 
boil together for fifteen minutes ; then add the eel and simmer again 
for a few minutes, dish up in the centre of a Puree of Potatoes (vol. i.) 
that has been arranged on the dish by means of a forcing bag with a 
large rose pipe, and serve while quite hot for dinner or luncheon. 

Eel a la Florentine 
Anguille d la Florentine 

Open a jar of the prepared eels, dip into hot water, and turn out the 
contents into a pan in the bain-marie ; when hot dish up in a pile on 
a hot dish, pour over it some good thick Tomato butter (vol i. page 25), 
garnish round the base with some boiled olive potatoes (see ' Potatoes 
a l'Albert ') that have been turned with a garnishing knife, and mixed 
with a little warm butter and finely chopped raw green parsley, and 
serve hot for dinner or luncheon. 



Eel a la Garrick 
Anguille d la Garrick 

Take a jar of the prepared eels, open and dip the jar into a little 
hot water and turn out the contents and set aside till cold. Arrange 
the pieces of eel on the dish on which they are to be served, pour over 
them the mixture prepared as below, garnish the four corners of the 
dish with a nice pile of well- washed crisp lettuce or other salad, and 
some quarters of hard-boiled egg. Serve for luncheon, ball suppers, or 
for any cold collation. 

Puree for Eel A la Garrick. Put into a basin a dessertspoonful 
of tarragon vinegar, a tablespoonful of salad oil, a little salt, and a 
pinch of coralline pepper, one large chopped eschalot, a dessertspoonful 
of French capers, two large raw ripe tomatoes freed from pips and 
peel, two chopped French red chillies, and a teaspoonful of mixed 
chopped tarragon and chervil ; mix together and use. 



OF EXTRA RECIPES DRESSED FISH AND FISH ENTREES 85 

Eel a la Jardiniere. Green Sauce 
Anguille d la Jardiniere. Sauce Verte 

Eemove the skin, fins, and head from a nice fresh large eel, form it 
into a hoop shape, securing it with a trussing needle and string, and 
lay it in a well-buttered stewpan with two or three peeled and sliced 
onions, a bunch of herbs (thyme, parsley, bayleaf), twelve peppercorns, 
five or six cloves, a blade of mace, a pint and a half of good- 
flavoured light stock ; just bring to the boil, place the lid on the pan 
and let it simmer gently for about forty minutes, and set it aside in the 
pan till cold. Then take up, remove the trussing string, mask the* eel 
well over with aspic jelly, place it on a flat dish on which it is to be 
served, and fill up the centre with some nice cooked vegetables, such as 
cauliflowers, beans, carrots, and turnips, mixed all together, add a little 
mignonette peper, salad oil, tarragon and chilli vinegar, cooked eschalot 
and parsley ; garnish round the dish with prettily cut blocks of aspic 
jelly, and serve with Green sauce (vol. i. page 27) handed in a sauce- 
boat for ball suppers, dinner fish, or for any cold collation. 

Eel a la Polignac 
AngtdUe d J" Polignac 

Remove the skin, bones, and fins from a nice fresh eel, open it out 
perfectly flat and bat it out with a cold wet chopping knife, also remove 
the head and narrow part near the tail ; season the inside of the fish 
with Marshall's Coralline Pepper, salt and strained lemon juice, and by 
means of a forcing bag with a large plain pipe arrange a layer of the 
prepared farce straight down the fish ; spread the farce with a hot wet 
knife entirely over the eel, place the eel on a well-buttered baking tin, 
stand the tin in a pan containing boiling water, and cook it in a 
moderate oven for about twenty minutes ; then take up the eel, place it 
on a hot dish on a bed of Mushroom puree (vol. i.), pour some Polignac 
sauce round the dish, arrange a good pile of watercress (that has been 
left in cold water till crisp, then shaken out, seasoned with a little 
salad oil, salt, tarragon and chilli vinegar, and a little finely chopped 
eschalot) at each end of the dish, arrange a pile of crayfish bodies (see 
recipe ' Turbot a la Chambord ') that have been made hot in a bain-marie 
in tke centre, and serve quite hot for dinner or luncheon. 

Farce for Eel a la Polignac. Rub six Christian ia anchovies 
through a sieve, mix them with twelve bearded sauce oysters and their 



86 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

liquor, a good pinch of coralline pepper, two raw yolks of eggs, a tea- 
spoonful of finely chopped parsley ; mix together and use. 



Eel a la Vincent 
Anguille d la Vincent 

Open a bottle of prepared eels, dip it into hot water and turn out 
the contents into a stewpan with an ounce of butter, sprinkle over 
one ounce of Marshall's Creme de Riz, add two or three finely chopped 
fresh washed mushrooms, a teaspoonful of finely chopped raw parsley, a 
dessertspoonful of essence of anchovies, a few drops of liquid carmine, 
three-quarters of a pint of light fish stock or water, half an ounce of glaze, 
one tablespoonful of strained lemon juice, and a little coralline pepper; 
simmer all together for twenty minutes, then dish up in a pile, garnish 
round with button mushrooms that have been warmed in the bain-marie, 
and serve hot for dinner or luncheon. 

Eel Paupiettes a la Francaise 
Paupiettes (TAnguilles a la Francaise 

Skin and cleanse a small eel, split and bone it, and cut it into six 
or eight pieces ; bat them out with a knife, occasionally dipping this 
in cold water, and season the pieces with black pepper and salt. 
Prepare a forcemeat thus: Take one large tablespoonful of finely 
chopped parsley, a similar quantity of bread crumbs, one finely chopped 
eschalot, one bayleaf chopped fine, a sprig of thyme, two fresh 
mushrooms which are well washed and dried, a dust of coralline 
pepper, a pinch of salt, an ounce and a half of warm butter, and two 
raw yolks of eggs ; mix these up all together ; then spread a portion 
on the inside of each piece of eel and roll them up ; dip them into fine 
flour, then into whole beaten-up egg and into freshly made white bread 
crumbs ; fry in clean boiling olive oil or fat for fifteen minutes ; take up 
and sprinkle with a little lobster coral ; dish each on a bed of crisply 
fried parsley on a little square flat paper case, and serve for dinner, 
luncheon, or breakfast. 

Souchet of Eels a la Berlin 
Souchet d'Anguilles a la Berlin 

Skin and wash a fresh eel and cut it in pieces about three inches 
long, put it into a stewpan with enough cold water (or fish stock, if you 
have it) to cover it, with one or two peeled and sliced onions, a bunch 



OF EXTRA RECIPES DRESSED FISH AND FISH ENTREES 87 

of herbs, such as thyme, parsley, bayleaf, six or eight peppercorns, and 
a pinch of salt ; bring this to the boil, then let it simmer for about 
twenty minutes. When cooked, take out the pieces of eel, remove any 
fat from the liquor, and to each quart add four raw whipped whites of 
egg ; bring again to the boil, simmer for about five minutes, then strain 
off the liquor through a clean soup cloth, after which reboil it and add 
the pieces of eel, also a tablespoonful of Julienne-cut strips of cucumber 
and lettuce, and tarragon, chervil, and parsley, also eight shredded 
cooked button mushrooms. Serve for dinner or luncheon. Soup should 
not be served when Souchet figures on the bill of fare. 

Fillets of Haddock with Lobster Cream 
Filets de Merhtehe ait Crime de Tlomard 

Take a nice fresh haddock, remove the bone and flatten out the fish, 
season it with Marshall's Coralline Pepper and salt, and place it on a 
well-buttered tin, cover over with a buttered paper, and cook in a 
moderate oven for fifteen to twenty minutes according to the size of the 
fish ; when cooked the fish should be quite white and firm. Dish up on 
a flat dish, pour round the dish some Lobster cream sauce (see recipe), 
sprinkle over the fish a little finely chopped fresh parsley, place down 
the centre of the fish a row of croutons of bread that are stamped out in 
rings about an inch and a half in diameter and half an inch thick, and 
fried in clean boiling fat to a pale golden colour, then brushed over with 
a little warm glaze, and the glazed side dipped into grated Parmesan 
cheese, and serve while quite hot for dinner or luncheon. 

Lobster Cream 

Pain de Homard " /" ( hreme 

Take eight ounces of freshly cooked lobster, six ounces of Panard 
(vol. i.), a large tablespoonful and a half of thick Bechamel sauce 
(vol. i.), one ounce of butter, a little salt and coralline pepper, three 
tablespoonfuls of cream, two eggs and a half, a saltspoonful of essence 
of anchovy, and a little of Marshall's Liquid Carmine ; pound the 
lobster, and when it is smooth take it from the mortar, and pound the 
panard ; then mix the lobster and the panard together with the season- 
ing, butter, and Bechamel, and when it is quite a smooth paste add the 
eggs and then pass through a wire sieve. Take a plain mould, butter it 
well, and then sprinkle it lightly over with lobster coral or chopped 
truffle ; put the mixture into a forcing bag with a plain pipe, and fill up 
the mould with it : knock the mould on the table to make the farce fall 



88 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

well into the mould, and then put it in a stewpan with a fold of paper 
at the bottom, and boiling water halfway up the mould ; draw the 
stewpan to the edge of the stove, and let it steam for half an hour, 
taking care that the water does not boil into the farce. When ready 
to serve, just run the knife round the edge, and turn the cream on to 
the dish on which it is to be served, and pour round it Lobster cream 
sauce (see recipe) and use for a dressed fish or for an entree for luncheon. 

Cold Cream of Lobster in Ragout 

Creme de Homard Froide en Rmjo/H 

Take six ounces of good fresh lobster, four boned Christiania 
anchovies, one teaspoonful of anchovy essence, one large tablespoonful of 
thick cream, a dust of Marshall's Coralline Pepper and sufficient liquid 
carmine to make it a pale salmon colour ; pound all together till per- 
fectly smooth, then mix with it three-quarters of a pint of Aspic jelly 
(vol. i.) and two tablespoonfuls of Mayonnaise sauce (vol. i.) and, pass it 
all together through the tammy or fine hair sieve ; then put the puree 
into a stewpan, and mix with it a quarter of a pint of stiffly whipped cream. 
Thinly line a fancy jelly mould with aspic jelly, and ornament it with 
cut truffle, French gherkin, or cucumber, and hard-boiled white of egg 
according to taste, setting the garnish with a little liquid aspic jelly to 
keep it in its place. When the garnish is set, pour the prepared mixture 
into the mould, and let it remain on the ice or in a cold place till wanted ; 
then dip the mould in hot water, pass a clean cloth over the bottom to 
absorb any moisture, and turn out the cream on to the dish on which 
it is to be served. Garnish all round the dish with a ragout as below, 
arranging the different ingredients prettily, and serve for a cold entree 
or in the fish course or as a ball supper dish. 

Garnish for Cream of Lobster in RagoCtt. Cut up half a cooked 
lobster in dice shapes, also two or three button mushrooms and truffles, 
twelve crayfish (prepared in bottles), six bearded blanched oysters, 
twelve prawns and cooked mussels ; season all together with a little salad 
oil, tarragon vinegar, a dust of coralline pepper, and a few little leaves 
of picked tarragon and chervil, and use. 

Lobster Outlets a la Clarence 

, Cotelettes de Homard d la, Clarence 

Take eight ounces of cooked lobster that has been* freed from bone, 
and pound it till quite smooth; then pound six ounces of panard 



OF EXTRA RECIPES DRESSED FISH AND FISH ENTREES 89 

with one ounce of fresh butter, season this with a dust of coralline 
pepper and a little salt ; add a dessertspoonful of anchovy essence, 
three boned Christiania anchovies, three whole raw eggs, one table- 
spoonful of Tomato sauce (vol. i.), and a few drops of liquid carmine, and 
pound these all together; then rub the mixture through a fine wire sieve 
and mix in a tablespoonful of thick cream. Butter some little cutlet 
moulds and garnish half of them with finely chopped raw parsley and 
coral, and the other half with parsley and truffle, in each case putting 
the parsley at the narrow end of the moulds; then put the mixture 
prepared as above into a forcing bag with a large plain pipe and force it 
out into the moulds ; smooth the farce over with a hot wet knife and 
place the moulds in a saute pan on a piece of paper ; put sufficient fish 
stock or water at the bottom to prevent the mixture drying, place a 
buttered paper over the top and poach in a moderate oven for about 
fifteen minutes, then take them up, dish on a border of fish farce, and 
serve very hot with White Wine sauce round the base. 

Salad of Lobster a la Turque 
Salads de Homard d la Turque 

Line a piccolo border mould about a quarter of an inch thick with 
aspic jelly, and fill up the centre with lobster puree, then set aside in a 
cool place till firm. Line some little egg moulds similarly to the border 
mould, and place them in a basin containing crushed ice ; when the 
aspic is set line them again about an eighth of an inch thick with 
lobster puree, and place, when in season, a boiled bantam's or plover's 




egg in the centre ; when these are not obtainable use the hard-boiled 
yolk of an egg ; fill up the moulds with a little cool aspic jelly, close 
the two parts of the moulds together, and put them aside on ice till firm. 
When ready to serve dip the border mould into hot water, pass a clean 
cloth over the bottom to absorb any moisture, then turn out on to the- 
dish on which it has to be sent to table ; turn out the little eggs 



90 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

similarly, and arrange one in each of the spaces of the border mould, 
and set this with a little finely chopped aspic jelly by means of a forcing 
bag with a small plain pipe ; fill up the centre of the border with a 
nice lettuce salad, and on this arrange some cooked lobster prepared as 
below, and also one of the little eggs ; garnish round the dish with a 
thick Mayonnaise sauce (vol. i.) made by mixing with half a pint of 
mayonnaise a quarter of a pint of liquid aspic, and stirring on ice till 
beginning to set, then use by means of a forcing bag and large rose 
pipe, and sprinkle here and there with a little lobster coral and chopped 
parsley, and garnish with some cooked prawns and little sprigs of 
tarragon and chervil, as in engraving ; serve for a dressed fish, or for 
& second-course dish, or for a ball supper, &c. 

Puree for Lobster a la Turque. Pound all together till smooth 
half a pound of cooked lobster, six washed and boned anchovies, two 
hard-boiled yolks of eggs, a dessertspoonful of anchovy essence, a dust 
of coralline pepper, a few drops of liquid carmine, two tablespoonfuls of 
thick cream, and one tablespoonful of salad oil ; when pounded mix in 
three-quarters of a pint of aspic jelly, rub through a tammy cloth or 
fine hair sieve and use when cooling. 

Garnishing for Lobster a la Turque. Take the body from a 
cooked lobster, free it from bone, and cut it into slices about a quarter 
of an inch thick, place the pieces on a dish or tin and mask them over 
with a little liquid aspic jelly, sprinkle with a little lobster coral and 
finely chopped parsley and leave them till set, then trim the edges and 
use. 

Souffle of Lobster a la Diablo 

Homard en Souffle a la Diable 

Chop finely a large freshly cooked lobster and the creamy part of 
the head ; put the raw yolks of six eggs in a basin and stir them well 
for ten minutes with a saltspoonful of French mustard, a pinch of English 
mustard, a dust of coralline pepper, a pinch of salt, a saltspoonful of 
tarragon vinegar, a pinch of chopped tarragon, a teaspoonful of essence 
of anchovy, and a few drops of carmine ; then add the cut lobster and 
two tablespoonfuls of stiffly whipped cream ; whip the whites of eight 
eggs till quite stiff, with a pinch of salt, and add to the other ingredi- 
ents. Butter a pie dish or souffle dish, put a band of well-buttered 
paper round it, standing about three inches higher than the edge of the 
dish, and pour in the mixture and put into the oven to cook for twelve 
to fifteen minutes ; take up, remove the paper, and sprinkle a little 
lobster coral or coralline pepper on the top ; serve hot on a napkin and 



OF EXTRA RECIPES DRESSED FISH AND FISH ENTREES 91 

sprinkle with chopped parsley, and serve Tomato butter (vol. i. page 25) 
in a boat if served in the fish course; if served as a second-course dish 
in place of game omit the Tomato butter. 



Mackerel a la Claudine 
Maqtiereau d la Claudine 

Take a nice large fresh mackerel, split it down the back and remove 
the bone, season the fish with salad oil, chopped fresh mushroom, salt, 
mignonette pepper, and finely chopped eschalot ; put on to a grill iron 
and cook in front or over a brisk fire for about fifteen minutes, then 
take up and serve on a hot dish with Claudine sauce for dinner, luncheon, 
or breakfast. 

Fillets of Mackerel a la Commodore 
Filets de Maquerea/u d la Commodore 

Remove the fillets from a nice fresh mackerel, free them from skin 
and bone, and bat them out with a knife that is occasionally dipped in 
cold water ; cut each fillet into two portions, trim them neatly, place 
them in a buttered saute pan, season them with coralline pepper, salt, 
and a little strained lemon juice, put a buttered paper over them, and 




cook in a tin containing boiling water in the oven for twelve minutes. 
When cooked, dish them on a hot dish en couronne, as in engraving, 
with hot Commodore sauce poured over ; garnish the fillets with the 
prepared or fresh prawns, and little bunches of finely shredded button 
mushrooms, and French gherkins, and serve as a hot dish for dinner 
or luncheon. Fillets of salmon &c. are excellent done in the same way. 

Fillets of Mackerel. Parsley Sauce 
Filets de Maqtiereau. Sauce Persil 

Take the two fillets from the mackerel, and if they are large cut each 
into three ; bat them out and trim them with a wet knife on a wet 
board. Butter a saute pan, place the, fillets in it, season them with a 



92 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

little pepper, salt, and a little lemon juice, cover them over with a 
buttered paper, and bake in a moderate oven for about ten minutes. 
Dish the fillets straight down the dish, resting one on the other ; 
pour the Parsley sauce (vol. i.) over them, and serve hot for dinner or 
luncheon. 

Red Mullets a la Francaise 
Rougets grilUs a la Frtmgaite 

Take some fresh red mullets, wipe them carefully with a soft dry 
cloth, trim off the fins and score with parallel cuts through the skin 
about one-eighth of an inch apart ; season with salad oil, coralline pepper, 
salt, and finely chopped eschalot, capsicum, and fresh parsley ; let the 
fish remain in the seasoning for about an hour before cooking, then 
wrap each up in a fold of well-oiled foolscap paper, and place on a hot 




grill iron and cook over a bright fire for ^twelve to fifteen minutes 
according to the size of the mullet, turning them from side to side with 
a palette knife during the cooking. When done take up on a plate and 
remove the paper, and place them on a hot dish on a dish-paper, brush 
over each with a little warm thin glaze, garnish here and there with 
little fresh sprigs of parsley, and serve hot for dinner, luncheon, or 
breakfast. 

Red Mullet a la Parisienne 
Rouget a la Parisienne 

Take a whole red mullet, dry it with a clean soft cloth and remove 
the fins, season the fish with salt, coralline pepper, finely chopped 
eschalot, chopped fresh mushrooms and a little salad oil, place it on a 
baking tin, stand it in another containing boiling water, season it with 
the juice of a lemon, cover over with a buttered paper, and cook in a 
moderate oven for fifteen to twenty minutes, according to the size of 
the mullet. Then dish up on a puree of mushrooms (vol. i. page 35), 
sprinkle over each a little warm glaze, and serve hot with the sauce- 
prepared as below round the dish. 



OF EXTRA RECIPES DRESSED FISH AND FISH ENTREES 93 

Sauce for Mullet a la Parisienne. Take the liquor in which 
the mullets were cooked, free it from fat, mix it with the pulp of four 
large raw ripe tomatoes, a few drops of carmine, the juice of a lemon, 
a little coralline pepper, half an ounce of glaze, three wineglassfuls of 
white wine, mix this on to half an ounce of arrowroot that is mixed 
with an ounce and a half of butter, stir all together till boiling, then 
tammy, rewarm in the bain-marie and use. 



Oysters in Curry a la Zola 
Huitres en Kari a la Zola 

Cut four ordinary-sized peeled onions in tiny dice shapes, and fry 
them for about fifteen minutes in one ounce of butter with a sprig of 
thyme and two chopped bayleaves ; stir these occasionally while cooking, 
then mix with them a dessertspoonful of Marshall's Curry Powder, ditto 
of tamarinds, ditto of chutney, six crushed cardamoms, a dessertspoonful 
of lemon juice, a saltspoonful of salt, half a grated cocoanut, and the 
milk of one, one ounce of Marshall's Creme de lliz, half a pint of oyster 
liquor, and a quarter of a pint of white wine ; stir these together over 
the fire till the mixture boils, then let it simmer on the side of the 
stove for about half an hour, add the pounded beards of the oysters 
mentioned below, and rub all together through a tammy or fine sieve ; 




replace the puree in a stewpan, then mix with two gills and a half of 
Aspic jelly (vol. i.), and three and a half to four dozen blanched bearded 
sauce oysters that have been sliced ; add two tablespoonfuls of whipped 
cream, and stir together until the mixture begins to set. Line any nice 
fancy mould about one-eighth of an inch thick with aspic jelly, ornament 
it as in engraving with little sprigs of chervil, little strips of hard-boiled 
white of egg, and strips of French red chilli, setting the garnish with a 
little more aspic to keep it in place ; line the mould again with Aspic 
cream (vol. i.) about one-eighth of an inch thick, and pour the mixture 
prepared as above into the mould, and put it aside till set, then dip it 
into hot water, pass a clean cloth over the bottom of the mould to absorb 
any moisture, and turn out on to a dish ; arrange round the dish some 



94 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

finely sliced raw cucumber that is seasoned with a little pepper and salt r 
oil and vinegar, and inside this place little borders of hard-boiled yolk 
and white of egg rubbed separately through a wire sieve. 



Poached Oyster Souffle 
Sovffle d'Huitres Poche 

Put into a stewpan two ounces of good butter, two ounces of fine 
flour, a saltspoonful of salt, a pinch of Marshall's Coralline Pepper, 
and three raw yolks of eggs, and mix with a gill of strained oyster 
liquor, a dessertspoonful of strained lemon juice, and a large wineglass 
of white wine ; stir these over the fire till they come to the boil, then 
add two dozen large sauce oysters that have been freed from the beards, 
and cut up into small square pieces, and add another wineglass of white 
wine and lastly the whites of five eggs, that have been whipped very 
stiff, with a pinch of salt. Butter a souffle dish well, and place a band 
of well-buttered paper round the outside, so that it stands about three 
inches above the dish ; pour the souffle mixture into it, and place the 
tin in a stewpan containing boiling water to about three-fourths the 
depth of the mould, watch the water reboil, then draw the pan to the 
side of the stove and steam for forty minutes. When the souffle is 
: cooked, take up and place it on a hot dish on a paper or napkin, 
remove the paper band, and surround the case with a clean folded 
napkin ; sprinkle over the top a little lobster coral or coralline pepper 
and chopped parsley, and serve at once. This can be used for an 
entree or in the fish course, and the mixture can, if liked, be cooked in 
small cases, when one case should be served to each person ; these will 
take eighteen minutes only to cook, and can be served for an entree or 
in the fish course, or as a second-course dish. 

Perch a la Belenne 

Perche a la Belenne 

Well cleanse, wash and scale some fresh perch, cut off the fins, dry 
well in a clean cloth, lay on a dish and season with salad oil, coralline 
pepper, salt, finely chopped eschalot and French gherkin, place on 
each fish in a slanting position three boned Christiania anchovies, wrap 
each up in a well-oiled double heart-shaped sheet of foolscap paper, 
fold in the ends of the paper to prevent the gravy escaping ; pour into 
each a tablespoonful of sherry and the same of Espagnol sauce (vol. i.), 
and close up. Place the fish on a well-oiled baking tin, and cook in a 



OF EXTRA RECIPES DRESSED FISH AND FISH ENTREES 95 

moderate oven for fifteen to twenty minutes, according to the size of the 
perch ; when sufficiently cooked the papers will be a nice brown colour. 
Dish them up on a hot dish in the papers, slightly overlapping one 
another, and serve hot for breakfast, dinner, or luncheon. 

Perch Souchet 

Souchet de Perche 

Well cleanse and wash some nice fresh percb, remove the fins and 
take the fillets from the fish, and put them into a well-buttered saute- 
pan, sprinkle over them a little strained lemon juice and a wineglassful 
of white wine, and set them on one side for an hour or so. Put 
the bones and trimmings from the fish into a stewpan with half an 
ounce of glaze, two or three sliced onions, a good bunch of herbs, bay- 
leaf, thyme, parsley, a strip or two of celery, twelve black and white 
peppercorns, four cloves and a pinch of salt ; cover with fish stock or 
cold water and a dessertspoonful of Bovril, just bring to the boil, remove 
the scum and simmer for about half an hour, then strain and free it from 
fat, add the gravy in which the fillets were marinaded, and three raw 
whites of eggs to each quart of liquor ; whip it well with a whisk, just 
bring to the boil and simmer for about ten minutes, then strain through 
a clean soup cloth, add the parsley and lettuce prepared as below, put the 
fillets into it, and simmer them for about eight minutes ; turn out into 
a deep entree dish or soup bowl and serve boiling hot for soup and fish 
combined. Grissini or very crisp dry toast is nice handed with it. 

Garnish for Perch Souchet. Pick some nice fresh green parsley 
into very tiny leaves, also cut some little leaves of tarragon and chervil 
into diamond shapes, just bring to the boil, then strain and rinse 
them in cold water and use. Cut a nice fresh well-washed lettuce 
into fine shreds and cook till tender, then strain and use. 

Perch a la Boy ale 

Perche a la Royale 

Wash, cleanse and scale some fresh perch, remove the fins and eyes- 
and dry in a clean cloth ; score the fish slantwise from belly to back, 
(see Eed Mullets a la Francaise), season the fish with salt and Marshall's 
Coralline Pepper, put them into a well-buttered saute pan with a table- 
spoonful of lemon juice, cover with a well-buttered paper, and cook in a 
moderate oven for about fifteen minutes ; dish up on a hot flat dish, 
pour the prepared sauce over, and serve for breakfast, luncheon, or 
dinner. 



96 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

Sauce for Perch 1 la Royale. Put the gravy in which the fish 
was cooked into a stewpan with a quarter of an ounce of arrowroot that 
is mixed with half an ounce of butter, a quarter of a pint of oyster 
liquor, and a quarter of a pint of thick cream ; stir till it boils, then 
add twelve bearded sauce oysters, a pinch of chopped raw parsley, and 
use. 

Fillets of Plaice with Lobster Cream Sauce 
Filets de Plie. Sauce Creme de Homard 

Take the fillets from a nice fresh plaice ; remove the skin, and bat 
the pieces out with a cold wetted chopping knife ; place them on a well- 
buttered baking tin or saute pan, sprinkle over with a little salt and 
Marshall's Coralline Pepper, and strained lemon juice ; cover over with 
a well-buttered paper, and put them into a moderate oven for about 
fifteen minutes, when the fillets should be firm and quite white. Then 
take up on a hot dish by means of a palette knife or slice, and pour over 
them some Lobster cream sauce ; sprinkle on the top a little finely 
chopped fresh parsley. Serve for a dressed fish for dinner or luncheon 
while quite hot. Other fillets such as salmon, turbot &c. are excellent 
.cooked in the same way. 



Fillets of Plaice with. Anchovies a la Royale 
Filets de Plie awe Anchois d la Royale 

Take the fillets from the fish, remove all the bone and skin, and bat 
them out with a heavy wet knife ; then cut crosswise into fillets, making 
each sufficiently large for one person ; season with a little salt and a 
tiny dust of white pepper, place them' in a buttered saute pan and 
sprinkle each fillet with a little lemon juice, put a buttered paper over 
them and cook in a moderate oven for twelve to fifteen minutes ; then 
dish them up in the form of cutlets. For the sauce take the liquor in 
the saute pan and work into it by degrees two ounces of fresh butter, 
a tablespoonful of cream, ditto of thick Bechamel Sauce, (vol. i.), and a 
teaspoonful of essence of anchovy j work these till quite smooth, add 
four or five drops of Marshall's Liquid Carmine and pour over the fillets. 
Then lightly sprinkle this with a little finely chopped parsley ; place on 
the top of each fillet a rolled fillet of anchovy and on the anchovy a 
little hard-boiled yolk of egg, that has been chopped or passed through a 
wire sieve. Serve for dinner, luncheon, or breakfast. Any white fish 
can be cooked in a similar way. 



OF EXTRA RECIPES- DRESSED EISH AND FISH ENTREES 97 

Salmon a la Fiord 
Saumon d la Fiord 

Take a piece of the tail end of salmon weighing four or five pounds, 
cleanse and boil it as in vol. i. page 77, ' Salmon a la Montpellier,' and 
when cooked leave it in the liquor till cold, then take up and place 
on a pastry-rack or sieve and coat it thickly over with liquid Aspic 
mayonnaise (vol. i. page 27). Have a prettily cut crouton of fried bread 
about two inches deep and large enough to rest the salmon on, place 




this on a large dish, then put the fish on it. Prepare some butter as 
below, and by means of a forcing bag and large rose pipe garnish the 
top and sides of the salmon as shown in the engraving, placing here and 
there some cut and chopped aspic jelly and hatelets with truffles, cooked 
crayfish, or prawns, button mushrooms, &c, and round the dish place at 
intervals some prettily-cut blocks of aspic jelly. Serve Suedoise sauce 
in a boat. This is a very elegant dish for ball supper, &c. 

Butter for Garnishing Salmon A la Fiord. Take three-quarters 
of a pound of fresh butter, six hard-boiled yolks of egg, half a pint 
of picked shrimps, a tablespoonful of anchovy essence, two tablespoon- 
fuls of salad oil, two ounces of lax, a quarter-ounce of Marshall's 
Coralline Pepper, eighteen Kriiger's appetit sild, and pound altogether 
till smooth, colour with carmine, making the mixture a salmon colour ; 
then rub all through a fine hair sieve, mix well together and put into 
the forcing bag and use as directed. 

Salmon a la Monte Carlo. Sauce Suedoise 
Saumon a la Monte Carlo. Sauce Suedoise 

Take a small fresh salmon and put it in salted cold water for two to 
three hours before cooking, then with a sharp knife remove the scales 
and fins, and clean it thoroughly ; truss the salmon at the head with a 

n 



98 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

trussing needle and fine string, and wash it well in cold water, then dry 
in a cloth and place it in a piece of well-buttered muslin or calico ; tie 
it up with a piece of broad tape and put it in a fish kettle with sufficient 
boiling water to cover it ; season with salt and French vinegar, and add 
some cleansed vegetables, such as carrots, onions, leeks, celery, and 
herbs (thyme, parsley, and bayleaf), about eighteen peppercorns, a blade 
of mace and six or eight cloves. Watch the water reboil and for each 
pound of salmon boil steadily for ten minutes, then take the pan off the 
stove and set it aside until the fish is cold ; take up, drain, and remove 
the cloth, trussing strings &c, and place the fish on a dish ; mask it 
with a thick coating of Mayonnaise aspic (vol. i.) so that it is com- 
pletely covered, and when this is set mask it over with liquid Aspic 
jelly (vol. i.). Arrange a bed of chopped aspic on the dish on which 




the fish is to be served, and place the salmon upon it ; colour some 
aspic jelly with sufficient liquid carmine to make it a pale salmon 
colour, and another portion with a little of Marshall's Sap Green to 
make it an olive colour; put these aside separately to set, and when 
firm cut them into slices, not quite a quarter of an inch thick ; stamp 
out some of these with a leaf cutter (leaving the remainder to serve, as 
instructed below), and then ornament the salmon straight down the 
back with the aspic leaves ; place two glass eyes in the fish, and 
arrange the remaining coloured blocks of aspic jelly all round the sides, 
in any pretty design ; put some finely chopped aspic jelly in a bag with 
a plain pipe, and finish garnishing with this, as in engraving. Serve as 
a top or bottom dish for a ball supper, with Suedoise sauce (see recipe). 
A large piece of salmon or a trout can be prepared in a similar manner. 

Salmon Outlets a la Bergen 
Cotelettes de Saumon a la Bergen 

Take half a pound of cooked salmon (that left from a previous meal 
will do), rub it through a wire sieve, and then mix it in a basin with a 
tablespoonful of thick Tartare sauce (vcl. i.) and two tablespoonfuls of 
liquid aspic jelly ; then add a quarter of a pint of stiffly whipped cream 
and a dessertspoonful of lemon juice. Have some new French bread 



OF EXTRA RECIPES DRESSED FISH AND FISH ENTREES 99 

cut in slices about a quarter of an inch thick ; stamp these out in cutlet 
shapes with a cutlet cutter, and fry them in clean boiling clarified butter 
till a pretty golden colour ; let these cool, then mask them over with a 
thin layer of clotted cream, and on the cream place a layer of the salmon 
mixture ; smooth this over into the shape of the bread with a wet, warm 
knife, then sprinkle it lightly with finely chopped aspic jelly, and on 
this sprinkle a little chopped parsley or tarragon and chervil ; the 
addition of a little coral or coralline pepper gives a pretty effect. Dish 
up the cutlets en couronne on a little chopped aspic jelly and serve 
with a Cucumber Salad (see recipe) in the centre for a cold entree 
or for any cold collation. 



Salmon Steak a la Cussy 
Tranche de Saumon d la Cussy 

Take a nice slice of salmon about one and a half to two inches thick, 
season it with salad oil, salt, finely chopped eschalot, Marshall's Coralline 
Pepper ; place it in a baking tin and stand the tin containing it in a tin 
with some boiling water in a moderate oven, cover the salmon with an 
oiled paper and let it cook for fifteen to twenty minutes, during which 
time be sure not to let the fish get dry. Then place on a hot dish, and 
pour some Cussy sauce all over, sprinkle the salmon over with crayfish 
bodies (those in bottles that are made warm in the bain-marie are very 
nice), serve at once for dinner, luncheon, or breakfast dish. Soles, fillet 
of codfish &c. are excellent in the same way. 



Salmon Steak a la Falmouth 
Tranche de Saumon & la Falmouth 

Take a thickly cut middle slice of salmon, season it with warm 
butter, mignonette pepper, and salt, place it on a grill iron on oiled 
straws and grill in front of a brisk fire for about fifteen minutes, then 
take up on a hot dish, pour round it the prepared sauce, sprinkle over 
the top a little of Marshall's Coralline Pepper and finely chopped raw 
parsley, and serve quite hot for dinner or luncheon. 

Sauce for Salmon Steak a la Falmouth. Remove the beards from 
a dozen sauce oysters, put their liquor into a stewpan with two finely 
chopped eschalots, the puree from six Christiania anchovies, half a pint 
of mushroom liquor, the juice of one lemon, stir on to one and a half 
ounces of butter that have been fried with an ounce of fine flour without 

H 2 



100 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

browning ; stir together till boiling, tammy, add the oysters that have 
been cut in slices, a dessertspoonful of French capers and a dust of 
coralline pepper, and use. 



Slices of Salmon a la Suedoise 

Tranches de Saumon a la Suedoise 

Take, for ten to twelve persons, about two pounds and a half of salmon, 
cut it crosswise in slices about a quarter of an inch thick, then season 
these with a little mignonette pepper, salt, and a slight sprinkling of 
mustard ; have some whole raw egg beaten up in a basin or on a 
plate, and to each egg add one ounce of warm butter. Dip the slices of 
salmon into this, and then into freshly made white bread crumbs, and 
fry in clean boiling oil or clarified butter (or fat can be used if wished) 
for six to eight minutes ; then take up and arrange each slice in a 
square Neapolitan paper ; dish up in a pile, and serve for dinner or 
luncheon with Suedoise sauce handed round in a boat. 



Slices of Salmon a la Vanderbilt 
Tranches de Saumon d la Vanderbilt 

Take some fresh salmon, and cut it into slices about an inch and a half 
to two. inches thick, allowing about three ounces of fish to each person, 
place them in a saute pan with two ounces of butter, half a pint of white 
wine and half a pint of tomato pulp (made by rubbing four or five 
tomatoes through a sieve) ; sprinkle over them the strained juice of one 
lemon, place a well-buttered paper over the top, and put the cover on 




the pan ; bring the contents to the boil, then draw the pan to the 
side of the stove, and simmer for about twenty minutes ; then remove 
the paper, and carefully take up the slices of salmon, arrange them on a 
hot dish, and garnish both ends of the dish with cooked Cucumber (see 
recipe) and Salsifies if in season (vol. i. page 239), and at the sides of the 
dish place hot cooked button mushrooms ; thicken the liquor in which 
the salmon was cooked with one ounce of Marshall's Creme de Biz which 



OF EXTRA RECIPES DRESSED FISH AXD FISH ENTREES 101 

has been mixed with a tablespoonful of white wine and coloured with 
a little carmine; stir these together in the pan till it boils, then tammy ; 
make it quite hot in the bain-marie, and serve round the fish and some 
in a sauceboat. Serve hot for dinner party or luncheon. 



Fillets of Salmon a l'Alexandra 

Filets de Saumon d l'Alexandra 

Take a piece of salmon and cut it in neat fillets, remove the skin, 
season with coralline pepper and salt, and a little lemon juice, and roll 
the fillets up into little rounds and tie them up in bands of buttered paper 
and put them in a stewpan with enough really good fish stock to cover 
them; sprinkle a few drops of lemon juice or a little white wine on the 
tops and cook for twelve to fifteen minutes. Take them up, remove the 
papers, and lightly glaze them over with warm glaze ; oil some little 
square paper cases on the outside, and dry them in the screen ami 
put one of the prepared fillets in each case and garnish round the fillet 
with Cucumber peas (see recipe), and put a little piece of Montpellier 
or Maitre d'Hotel butter (vol. i.) about the size of a Spanish nut on the 
top of each fillet and serve on a hot dish with a dish-paper on it, as 
a dinner fish, fish entree, or for luncheon. These fillets are also nice 
when cold. 

Fillets of Salmon in Paper a l'Anvers 
Filets de Saumon en Papillate d VAnvers 

Take about a pound of the middle of salmon with the backbone 
removed to make a dish for five or six persons, and cut it in nice slices 
about a quarter of an inch thick ; remove the skin and lightly bat out the 
pieces with a wet knife, season with a little coralline pepper and salt 
and warm butter and strained lemon juice ; cut some foolscap paper 
into heart shapes and double and fold the edges so as to form a bag or 
case, oil these on the outside, and place a fillet of salmon in each with a 
tablespoonful of Tomato puree (vol. i. page 35) ; wrap up the ends of the 
paper and put the cases in a well-greased tin with a paper over the top 
to prevent the cases getting browned in the cooking; place the tin in 
the oven for about ten minutes, this will make the paper cases puff out. 
Dish up the cases on a hot dish on a dish-paper or napkin, garnish 
with a little green tarragon and chervil or parsley. These make an 
excellent dish for breakfast, dinner, or luncheon, and should be served 
directly they are taken from the oven. 



102 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

Little Fillets of Salmon a la Gorgona 
Petits Filets de Saumon d la Gorgona 

Take for eight or ten fillets, one pound and a half of salmon. 
remove the skin and cut in slices about a quarter of an inch thick ; 
place these on a wetted board or table and bat them out with a wet 
knife, then place on each a boned fillet of Christiania anchovy and 
season this side of the salmon fillets with finely chopped eschalot, French 
gherkin, a little fennel or parsley, a dust of Marshall's Coralline Pepper 
and salad oil ; roll up each fillet into cylinder shape with the seasoning 
&C. inside, dip them in oil and then into fine flour and whole beaten-up 
egg and fry in clean boiling fat for twelve to fifteen minutes, when they 
should be a nice golden colour ; when cooked remove them from the fat 
and dish on a dish-paper or napkin ; garnish with crisply fried parsley 
and serve with Gorgona sauce in a boat for breakfast, luncheon, or 
dinner. 

Fillets of Salmon a la Mendip 
Filets de Sa/umon a la Mendvp 

Take a piece of the tail end of salmon, slip off the skin and cut 
into slanting slices about half an inch thick, place on the table or slab, 
bat them out with a cold wet chopping knife, season them with salt, 
coralline pepper, strained lemon juice and a little finely chopped eschalot 
and parsley, put into a buttered saute pan and cook them in a moderate 
oven for about fifteen minutes, with a buttered paper over, and dish them 
en couronne on a flat dish. Add to the gravy in which the fillets were 
cooked half an ounce of glaze, the puree of two raw ripe or tinned 
tomatoes, half an ounce of Marshall's Creme de Eiz that has been mixed 
with a wineglass of white wine, and six Kriiger's appetit sild that have 
been finely chopped ; stir together till boiling, then add half a gill of 
cream, tammy it and pour round the fillets on the dish. Serve quite 
hot for dinner or luncheon. 

Fillets of Salmon a la Mouchy 
Filets de Saumon d la Mouchy 
Take a piece of salmon, allowing about one and a half to two ounces 
for each fillet, cut it in pieces about a quarter of an inch thick, bat them 
out with cold water on a wetted board, trim them as square as possible, 
season with a little pepper and salt, and then mask each fillet over with 
salmon farce, using a wet hot knife for the purpose ; sprinkle half of 
each fillet lightly with chopped truffle ; then place them in a buttered 
saute pan with a wineglass of white wine that has had half an ounce of 



OF EXTRA RECIPES DRESSED FISH AND FISH ENTREES 103 

glaze dissolved in it, and place a buttered paper over the top ; stand 
them in a moderate oven to cook for about fifteen minutes ; then take 
them up on a plate, and mask them over with the white sauce, and 
arrange them on a border of salmon farce ; pour the red part of the 
sauce round the dish ; garnish each fillet with a large thin slice of 
truffle, and serve. 

Sauce for Fillets of Salmon a la Mouchy. Take the bones 
and skin from the fish, and put them in a stewpan with a sliced 
onion, a bunch of herbs (thyme, bayleaf, and parsley), a small handful 
of peelings and stalks of fresh mushrooms, two wineglasses of white 
wine, a pint and a half of water, six or eight peppercorns, and bring to 
the boil ; skim, and let it boil on slowly for about twenty-five to thirty 
minutes ; then strain it, and to one pint of this liquor add the gravy 
from the cooking of the fillets, and stir it all together on to two and a 
half ounces of fine flour and two and a half ounces of butter that have 
been fried together without discolouring ; bring this to the boil, then 
add half a gill of cream, a dust of Marshall's Coralline Pepper, and 
tammy. Take from it enough for masking the fillets, and add a little 
more cream to the remainder, for pouring round the dish, colouring 
with a few drops of carmine. 

Farce for Fillets of Salmon A la Mouchy. Take half a pound 
of raw salmon, and the trimmings from the fillets, half a pound of 
panard, a few drops of carmine, a dust of coralline pepper and salt, two 
raw yolks and one whole egg ; pound the fish and panard separately, 
then mix them together and pound again, add the eggs &c. and rub 
through a sieve and use. Enough for ten to twelve portions. 

Fillets of Salmon a la Roumanie 

Filets de Saumon & la Roumanie 

Take a nice sound piece of salmon and cut it into slices a quarter 
of an inch thick and four and a half inches long ; bat each fillet out 




with a cold wet chopping-knife, place them in a buttered saute pan, 
sprinkle over each a little strained lemon-juice, grated Parmesan cheese, 



104 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

salt, coralline pepper, and a little sherry, cover them with a well- 
buttered paper, stand the saute pan in a tin containing boiling water, 
and cook the fillets in a moderate oven for twelve to fifteen minutes, 
when they should be quite firm. Dish them up on a border of potatoes, 
mask the fillets with a little warm glaze, garnish each with little fish 
quenelles, pour the prepared sauce round the dish and serve while quite 
hot. 

Sauce for Salmon a la Roumanie. Put the bones and trimmings 
from the fish and the beards and liquor from six oysters into a stewpan 
with two sliced onions, a bunch of herbs, thyme, parsley, bayleaf, six 
or eight peppercorns, half a pint of white wine, three sliced tomatoes, 
the juice of two lemons, a little salt and one pint of fish stock or water ; 
bring this to the boil, simmer it for about half an hour, then strain off 
and mix one pint of it on to two ounces of fine flour that have been fried 
with two ounces of butter without browning ; stir till it boils, add the 
liquor in which the fillets were cooked, a few drops of liquid carmine, 
half a gill of cream, and a dust of coralline pepper, tammy, and use. 

Quenelles for Garnish for Salmon A la RouMANiE.-VTake a 
quarter of a pound of white fish and six bearded sauce oysters and 
pound them till smooth, mix with the puree three ounces of Panard 
(vol. i.), a dust of coralline pepper, a little salt, two small raw eggs, 
and one tablespoonful of cream ; rub altogether through a wire sieve, 
put into a forcing bag with a plain pipe, force out into little bouche 
moulds that are buttered and sprinkled with a little finely chopped green 
parsley, poach them for ten minutes, then turn them out and use one 
for each fillet of salmon. 



Mazarine of Salmon a la Riche 

Mazarine de Saumon a la Riche 

Take eight ounces of raw scraped salmon and pound it till smooth 
pound together four ounces of Panard (vol. i.), three ounces of fresh 
butter, and one tablespoonful of thick Bechamel sauce, a little coralline 
pepper, one ounce of pounded live spawn, six boned Christiania 
anchovies, and a pinch of salt, a few drops of carmine and three whole 
eggs, When smooth mix in the pounded fish and rub all through a 
wire sieve ; add to the puree a tablespoonful of thick cream, put the 
mixture into a forcing bag with a plain pipe and force it out into a 
buttered and papered turban mould that has been garnished with prettily 
cut truffle. Place the mould in a stewpan on a fold of paper, surround 
it with boiling water to three parts the depth of the mould, watch 



OF EXTRA RECIPES DRESSED FISH AND FISH ENTREES 105 

the water reboil, then draw the pan to the side of the stove and let 
the contents poach for about thirty minutes. When cooked take up, 
turn out on to a hot dish, garnish the centre with a ragout of button 
mushrooms, truffle, cooked lobster that is freed from shells and cut into 




dice shapes, or some of the prepared crayfish or prawns and blanched 
bearded oysters, all of which should be warmed together in a little fish 
stock in the bain-marie ; pour lliche sauce all round the mazarine and 
serve hot for dinner or luncheon. 

Hot Salmon Souffle\ Sauce Riche 
Souffle de Saamon Chaud. Sauce Riche 

Put into a stewpan three ounces and a half of butter, three ounces 
of fine flour, one tablespoonful and a half of anchovy essence, three 
washed and boned chopped Christiania anchovies, four raw yolks of 
eggs, a dust of Marshall's Coralline Pepper, a pinch of salt, and a salt- 
spoonful of Marshall's Liquid Carmine, mix with not quite one pint of 
cold milk, and stir over the fire until the mixture boils ; then add two 
more tablespoonfuls of cold milk, a tablespoonful of strained lemon 
juice, ten ounces of finely chopped raw salmon, and six whites of eggs 
that have been whipped stiff, with a pinch of salt. Butter and paper 
a souffle tin (see recipe Souffle of Whiting in Surprise) so that the 
paper stands about four inches above the tin, pour in the prepared mix- 
ture, sprinkle it over with a few browned bread crumbs, break half an 
ounce of butter into little pieces and put the pieces here and there over 
the mixture, bake the souffle in a moderate oven for three-quarters of an 
hour, then remove the band of paper and place a folded napkin round 
the tin. Sprinkle the souffle with a little chopped parsley, and serve 
at once with Riche sauce for an entree for dinner or luncheon. 

Salmon Mousse a la Dagmar 

Mousse de Saumon a la Dagmar 

Take a mousse mould and line it about one-eighth of an inch thick 
with Aspic jelly (vol. i.), then ornament it with a garnish of salmon 



106 ' MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

and cucumber puree that is cut out in shapes, and arrange them alter- 
nately until the mould is completely covered, then line the garnish all 
over with a thin layer of aspic jelly to set it to the mould, and fill up 




the latter with a mixture as below, and put it away to get set, then dip 
it into hot water and turn the mousse out on a dish ; garnish with a 
salad of cooked beetroot and turnips, and little bunches of chopped 
aspic jelly. Serve for ball supper, luncheon &c. 

Cucumber Puree for Salmon Mousse a la Dagmar. Peel and 
cut up a small cucumber, put it into a stewpan with enough cold 
water to cover it ; season it with a little salt, then place the stewpan 
on the stove and bring to the boil ; let it simmer gently for about ten 
minutes, then strain off and press the water from it and pound it till 
smooth, and mix with it half a pint of liquid aspic jelly and two 
tablespoonfuls of Mayonnaise sauce (vol. i.) ; colour with a little of 
Marshall's Apple Green, then tammy and set away to cool in a saute 
pan to about one-eighth of an inch thick, then stamp out and use. 

Salmon Puree for Mousse a la Dagmar. Take a quarter of a 
pound of cooked salmon, two hard-boiled yolks of eggs, two fillets of 
Kriiger's marinaded fillets of herring, a few drops of carmine, a table- 
spoonful of cream, and pound together ; then mix with rather more than 
half a pint of cool liquid aspic, tammy and set to cool, and use in the 
same way as the cucumber. 

Mixture for inside the Mould. Take four ounces of cooked 
salmon, four Christiania anchovies, a little carmine, a teaspoonful of 
essence of anchovy, a dust of coralline pepper, one and a half tablespoon- 
fuls of salad oil ; pound and rub through a fine sieve, and then mix the 
puree with two gills and a half of whipped aspic and one gill of stiffly- 
whipped cream, then add three cooked button mushrooms and two or 
three truffles cut up in tiny dice shapes ; mix together on ice till the 
mixture begins to set, and then pour into the mould. 

Salad for above. Cut the cooked beetroot out with a pea-shaped 



OF EXTRA RECIPES DRESSED FISH AND FISH ENTREES 107 

cutter, and season it with a little salad oil, tarragon vinegar, and 
mignonette pepper; cut the turnips out in the same shape, and put 
them in a stewpan with cold water and bring to the boil, then strain 
and put them into a stewpan with boiling water seasoned with a little 
salt and cook till tender, then strain and when cool season as for the 
beetroot. 

Fried Sole with Anchovy Butter 

Sole Frite an Beurre d'Anclioi* 

Skin a large fresh sole, trim and wash it, and dry it in a clean 
cloth, then split the underneath fillets straight down with the point 
of a sharp knife; break the bone about an inch from the tail and the 
same distance from the head; flour the fish, then dip it in whole 
beaten-up raw egg, and then into white bread crumbs ; put it into 
sufficient boiling fat to cover it, and fry till a nice golden colour. A 
large sole will take about ten to twelve minutes to fry, and should be 
quite crisp. When the fish is cooked, take it from the fat, and with a 
fork take out the bone from the centre and fill in the space thus made 
with Anchovy butter (vol. i. page 38), turn it over and place it on a hot 
dish with the split side downwards. Serve hot for breakfast, luDcheon, 
or dinner. 

Sole a la Cleveland 
Sole a la Cleveland 

Take a nice fresh sole, trim, wash, and dry it, and split the under- 
neath fillets straight down with the point of the knife, and break the 
bone about an inch from the tail and head ; well flour the fish, dip it 
into whole beaten-up egg and bread crumbs, put it into boiling mutton 
fat or lard, and fry it for about ten minutes till a nice golden colour. 
Then remove the fish from the fat, and with a fork take out the bone 
from the centre and fill up the space with the ragout as below ; dish up 
the sole on a hot dish, sprinkle the top with coral and chopped fresh 
parsley, and serve for luncheon or dinner. 

RagoCt for Sole a la Cleveland. Take six well-washed and 
boned anchovies, rub them through a sieve, or cut them into small 
squares, mix them with a teaspoonful of chopped French capers, three 
hard-boiled yolks of eggs (that have been rubbed through a sieve), two 
ounces of fresh butter, and six bearded sauce oysters cut up in little 
squares ; mix all together with the liquor from the oysters and the juice 
of a lemon, and use. 



108 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

Devilled Sole 
Sole d la Diable 

Take a large fresh sole, remove the skin and head and trim off the 
fins, dry the fish well with a clean cloth ; score it on each fillet on both 
sides, and then season it well with coralline pepper and salt, and steep 
it in salad oil, let it remain in the seasoning for about one hour 
before cooking ; then put it on a hot grill-iron on oiled straws, and 
cook it over a clear fire from ten to twelve minutes ; take up, place it on 
a hot baking tin, brush it over with warm glaze, and sprinkle it with 
grated Parmesan cheese ; then mask over with Devil paste (vol. i.) and 
put it into a quick oven for six to eight minutes ; should the devil paste 
not appear dry, hold a hot salamander over it for a few seconds. Dish 
up the sole on a hot dish, on a dish-paper or napkin, and serve for 
dinner, breakfast, or luncheon, while quite hot. 



Sole and Smelts Fried 
Sole et Fperlans Frits 

Remove the skin and fins from a nice fresh sole, wash it well in cold 
salt water, and dry it in a clean cloth, flour it well, then dip it into 
whole beaten- up raw egg, and fry it in clean boiling fat or lard for ten to 
twelve minutes, when it should be a nice golden colour; take up with a 




slice and drain on a rack, dish up on a dish-paper, garnish with smelt 
prepared as below, and serve with any nice sauce for dinner or luncheon. 
It can be served without sauce as a breakfast dish, or can be eaten cold, 
if fried in oil. 

Smelts for Garnish. Remove the fins from some nice fresh 
smelts, but do not wash them, dry them in a cloth, flour and egg them 
in the same manner as the sole, and fry them in clean boiling fat for six 
or eight minutes, till a nice golden colour ; drain and use as directed. 



OF EXTRA RECIPES DRESSED FISH AND FISH ENTREES 109 

Sole a la Monico 
Sole d I" Monico 

Trim and skin the sole and remove the head ; slit it along the centre 
of the backbone, making sure that the knife cuts the flesh right to the 
bone, and then pass the knife horizontally between the fillet and the 
bone on each side of the slit ; do the other side of the sole in a similar 
manner and remove the bone, taking care not to break the fish. Well 
butter the dish on which the fish is to be served, place the fish thereon, 
and season the inside of it with a little pepper and salt, and arrange 
a Fish farce (vol. i.) in the inside of the fish by means of a forcing 
bag and pipe ; the farce must be made in quantity according to the size 
of the fish ; close up the fillets together as neatly as possible, sprinkle 
the juice of a lemon and a tablespoonful of white wine over the sole, 
cover it with a well-buttered paper; place the dish in a tin containing 
boiling water, and put it in the oven for fifteen to eighteen minutes 
according to the size of the fish. When the sole is ready to serve, pour 
sdme Monico sauce over the fish, sprinkle it with a little finely chopped 
parsley and a little lobster coral or coralline pepper, and serve the rest 
of the sauce in a boat. 



Sole a la Bon Homine 

Sole <t In I!" a Homme 

Remove the skin from a nice fresh sole, trim off the fins, head, and 
tail, and wash it well in cold salted water, dry it thoroughly in a cloth, 
split the underneath fillets straight down with the point of the knife, 
break the bone about an inch from the tail and head, remove the bone 
and fill up the space with the prepared farce ; place the sole on a well- 
buttered dish on which it is to be served, with the farced side down- 
wards, sprinkle over it a little strained lemon juice, and salt; cover with 
a buttered paper, and cook in a moderate oven for about fifteen minutes, 
then take up, pour over it some Bon Homme sauce, brown with the 
salamander, sprinkle over it a little of Marshall's Coralline Pepper, cleanse 
the edges of the dish, stand it on another on a folded napkin, and 
serve boiling hot for dinner or luncheon. 

Farce for Sole a la Bon Homme. Cut eight raw bearded sauce 
oysters into dice shapes, and mix them with four washed and peeled 
dried fresh mushrooms also cut into dice shapes, the liquor from the 
oysters, four soft roes of herrings, fresh or the prepared ones, cut up 



110 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

small, a teaspoonful of chopped fresh green parsley, one ounce of freshly- 
made white bread crumbs, one ounce of warm butter, one raw yolk of 
egg, a saltspoonful of Marshall's Curry Powder, and the strained juice 
of half a lemon ; stir up well all together, and use. 



Sole Mounted 
Sole Montee 

Remove the fillets from a large sole, and cut each into two or three 
portions ; wash these in cold salted water, and dry them well in a clean 
cloth ; then season them with a pinch of ground ginger and salt, roll 
them in flour, and dip into whole raw beaten-up egg; fry them in 
clarified butter (vol. i.) for eight to ten minutes, according to the size 
of the fillets, occasionally turning them. When the fillets are cooked, 




place on the dish on which they are to be served two rows of Rice 
(vol. i.) to form borders, and on the centre of these borders arrange the 
fillets as in engraving, leaving the centre of the dish perfectly clear ; 
pour over the borders of rice here and there some Tomato butter (vol. i.), 
which gives a pretty effect, and pour the sauce in the centre. Serve 
hot for a luncheon dish or for a ball supper. 

Sauce for Sole Mounted. Peel and grate half a large fresh 
cocoanut and put it into a stewpan with three-quarters of a pint of 
boiling fish stock and the milk from the cocoanut, and let it infuse in 
the bain-marie for fifteen to twenty minutes. Put one ounce of fine 
flour and one ounce of butter into a stewpan, and fry together without 
browning ; then strain into it the liquor prepared as above, stir till it 
boils, add the strained juice of half a lemon and two ounces of live 
lobster spawn (which has been pounded till smooth and mixed with one 
ounce of good butter), then reboil, pass through the tammy, and add 
two red chillies and one green capsicum which have been freed from 
seeds, and cut up in Julienne shreds and use as directed. 



OF EXTRA EECIPES DRESSED FISH AND FISH ENTREES 111 

Stuffed Sole a la Vienne 
Sole far cie a la Vienne 

Take a nice large fresh sole, and split the underneath and top fillets 
straight down with a sharp knife, break the bone an inch from the head 
and tail and remove it, season the inside with salt and coralline pepper, 
a little chopped eschalot and fresh parsley, and by means of a forcing 
bag and a plain pipe fill inside the sole with Puree of Fish (whiting) ; 
place the sole on a well-buttered baking tin, and press the fillets well on 
the farce, sprinkle well with strained lemon juice, and put a well- 
buttered paper over it ; stand the tin containing the sole in a tin con- 
taining boiling water, put it in a moderate oven to cook for about twenty 
minutes, then remove carefully from the tin on to a hot flat dish, using 
a slice for the purpose ; pour all over it some Ambassade sauce, and 
garnish round with fancy cut croutons, as used in Fillets of Whiting a 
1' Ambassade. 

Fillets of Sole with Anchovy Butter 
Filets de Sole au Beurre oVAncJmis 

Take some fillets of sole, and if they are large cut them in halves, 
cleanse them, and dry them in a clean cloth, and dip them first in flour, 
then into a whole beaten-up egg, and afterwards into freshly made white 
bread crumbs ; roll them up ; place a skewer through them to keep them 
together, and fry in boiling fat for six or seven minutes ; when they are 
crisp, and a nice golden colour, remove them from the fat ; take out the 
skewers, and replace with silver ones instead if you have them ; serve 
up on a hot dish, garnish the top of each with Anchovy butter (vol. i. 
page 38), that is rolled up in ball shapes with a single fillet of Christiania 
anchovy curled up and placed on the top of the butter, and a prepared 
farced olive on the top of each, and serve at once for breakfast, luncheon, 
or dinner. 

Fillets of Sole a la Brabant 
Filets de Sole a la Brabant 

Remove the fillets from a nice fresh sole, and bat them out with a 
wet chopping knife ; then season them on the skin side with a little 
pepper, salt, and finely chopped parsley and lemon juice, and roll them 
up into cylinder shapes with the seasoning inside; roll them in a 
buttered band of foolscap paper, and tie them up with string, then put 
them into a stewpan with half a pint of fish stock, a quarter of a pint of 



112 MRS. A. B MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

water, and the trimmings and bones from the fish ; place the stewpan 
on the stove, and cook the fillets for about a quarter of an hour. When 
ready to serve take up, remove the papers, place each fillet in a little 
oiled paper or hot china case, cover over with Lobster cream sauce (see 
recipe), sprinkle over with a little raw green parsley, and serve one to 
each person on a hot dish, on a napkin or a dish paper. 



Fillets of Sole a la Cardinal 
Filets de Sole a la Oarddnal 

Take the fillets of sole, and if they are large cut them in halves, the 
best size is about four inches in length, as they will shrink somewhat 
in cooking. Place in a saute pan the bones from the fish, sufficient 
cold water to cover them, and a little salt, one sliced onion, and a bunch 
of herbs, arrange the fillets on this, sprinkle them with a little lemon 
juice, cook for about ten minutes in a moderate oven with a buttered 
paper over them ; dish them up on a border of farce or potato (vol. i.), 
mask them over with Cardinal sauce, garnish the centre of the dish 
with a hot garnish of crayfish bodies (see recipe Turbot a la Cham- 
bord), little quenelles of white fish (vol. i. page 61), button mushrooms, 
little pieces of lobster or shrimps and truffle, and serve very hot for 
dinner parties &c. 

Fillets of Sole a la Corrente 
Filets de Sole d la Corrente 

Take some small fillets of sole and bat them and season well, and 
mask with a thin layer of white fish farce, and then sprinkle with 
chopped lobster ; cook in a buttered saute pan in the oven with a little 
lemon juice and water in the bottom of the pan, with a buttered paper 
over for about twelve to fifteen minutes, then dish on a border of fish 
farce as below, and serve with a good white sauce round the base, 
sprinkle with shredded tarragon, and garnish round the dish with 
croutons masked with parsley and coral. 

Sauce for Fillets of Sole A la Corrente. Put the bones 
from the fish in a pan with a quarter of a pint of white wine and one 
and a half pints of cold water, six peppercorns, a bunch of herbs, a 
pinch of salt, and one large onion sliced. Boil for about fifteen 
minutes, then mix on to two ounces of flour and two ounces of butter ; 
stir till it boils, then add a quarter of a pint of cream, a few drops of 
lemon juice, and the liquor from the fillets ; tammy and use. 

Border for Fillets of Sole A la Corrente. Butter a Breton 



OF EXTRA RECIPES DRESSED FISH AND FISH ENTRIES 113 

border, mould and dust it all over with lobster coral, and fill it with 
white fish farce (see recipe ' Fish Farce for Border ') by means of pipe and 
bag, and poach for fifteen to twenty minutes. 



Fillets of Sole a la Clementine 

Filets de Sole d la Clementine 

Take the fillets from the fish, remove the skin and any bones, and 
cut the fillets in lengths sufficient for one person ; bat these out with a 
chopping knife, which should be kept wet by dipping it in cold water, 
and place them in a buttered saute pan ; season them with a little salt 
and mignonette pepper; sprinkle with a little lemon juice, chopped 
parsley, a little coral or coralline pepper, and a little chopped mushroom 
(using white ones if possible), a very little eschalot, a wineglass of white 
wine; put a well- buttered paper over, and stand the pan in the oven 
or on the side of the stove for about twelve minutes, then dish up the 
fillets straight down the dish, and pour Clementine sauce round the 
base and serve hot for dinner or luncheon. 

Fillets of Sole in Curry a la Midas 
Filets de Sole en Ka/ri d la Midas 

Remove the skin and fillets from a large fresh sole, bat the fillets 
out with a cold wet chopping knife, and if large cut each fillet into two, 
season them on the dark side with a little salt and ground ginger, trim 
them neatly, sprinkle them well with strained lemon juice, and place 
them in a buttered saute pan, cook them in a moderate oven for about 




twelve minutes, when they should be quite white and firm ; then 
take up, dish the fillets on a border of fish farce, pour over them 
some sauce prepared as below, fill up the centre with boiled rice that 
is sprinkled with coralline pepper or lobster coral, garnish the dish with 
the prepared or fresh crayfish (see recipe ' Turbot a la Chambord '), and 
serve while quite hot for a fish entree for dinner or luncheon. 

I 



114 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

Sauce for Fillets of Sole A la Midas. Fry four peeled and 
sliced onions with two ounces of butter, a pinch of chopped bayleaf, 
thyme, and a saltspoonful of coralline pepper for fifteen to twenty 
minutes, then add to it a tablespoonful of Marshall's Curry Powder, a 
dessertspoonful of chutney, a pinch of ground cinnamon, two tablespoon- 
fuls of grated cocoanut, the bones from the sole, one large tablespoonful 
of strained lemon juice, two ounces of Marshall's Creme de Riz, a pint 
and a half of good-flavoured fish stock, one ounce of glaze ; stir all 
together till it boils, and let it simmer for about forty minutes, then 
remove the fish bones and rub the remainder through the tammy ; re- 
warm in the bain-marie, add the strained gravy from the fillets, and 
use while quite hot. 

Fillets of Sole a la Grenade 
Filets de Sole d la Grenade 

Take some nice fresh fillets of sole, season them lightly with pepper, 
salt, and a little lemon juice on the under side, roll each fillet round a 
piece of potato the size of a cork, tie up in a buttered paper, cook them 
in a little white wine or fish stock in the oven in a covered pan for about 
a quarter of an hour. Place the fillets on one side till cold, then remove 
the potato and farce them with the ragout of lobster, prepared as below, 
using a forcing bag and large plain pipe for the purpose, then dip them 
into frying batter (vol. i.), fry them till a nice golden colour, dish up 
in a pile and serve with Chauron sauce (vol. i.) for dinner or luncheon. 

Ragout for Fillets of Sole A la Grenade. Half a pint of milk 
boiled with one large sliced eschalot for flavour, then mixed on to two 
ounces of flour and the same of butter which have been lightly fried ; 
boil up, then add two raw yolks of eggs, season with a little coralline 
pepper and a teaspoonful of essence of anchovy, stir again over the fire 
till it thickens, but do not let it boil, then tammy and add a small finely 
chopped cooked lobster and a little chopped fresh parsley ; mix all 
together and use as directed. 

Fillets of Sole a la Joinville 

Filets de Sole a la Joinville 

Remove the fillets from a nice skinned sole, place them on a wetted 
board and bat them out quite flat with a wet chopping knife ; season 
them with a little salt and white pepper, sprinkle with a little lemon 
juice, then mask each over thinly with a layer of farce (as below) ; smooth 
this over with a hot wet knife, place a piece of truffle inside each and 



OF EXTRA RECIPES DRESSED FISH AND FISH ENTREES 115 

roll the fillets up in cylinder shapes in strips of buttered foolscap paper, 
tying these with a piece of thin string. If the fillets are large, cut each 
into two portions. Put in a stewpan a large sliced onion, a bunch of 
herbs, six peppercorns, and the bones and trimmings from the fish ; place 
the fillets in the pan, add about half a pint of white wine, the strained 
juice of two lemons, and one and a half pints of water ; bring to the boil, 
skim well, place the cover on the pan, and allow the fillets to simmer 
gently for twelve to fifteen minutes, then take up, remove the string and 
papers, and strain off the liquor in which the fillets were cooked. Put 




into a stewpan two ounces of butter and two ounces of fine flour, fry these 
together without discolouring, then add one pint of the strained liquor 
and stir until it boils ; add a gill of cream, wring the whole through 
the tammy and keep it hot in the bain-marie. Arrange the fillets on a 
hot entree dish as shown in engraving. Pour the prepared sauce over 
them, place two nice pieces of truffle on the top of each fillet, and serve 
some of the sauce round the base of the dish. The fillets may also, if 
wished, be dished on a border of the fish farce. 

Salmon Fabce for Fillets of Sole a la Joinyille. Take for 
eight to ten fillets five ounces of raw salmon, five ounces Panard(vol. i.), 
half an ounce of butter, a pinch of salt, and a dust of cayenne pepper ; 
pound the fish till smooth, then remove from the mortar and pound the 
panard and mix altogether ; add two whole raw eggs and a few drops of 
carmine, and rub the whole through a fine wire sieve, then put it into a 
forcing bag with a plain pipe and use. 

Fillets of Sole a la Josephine 
Filets de Sole <*' la JosSjphine 

Remove the fillets from a nice fresh sole (if a large one is used, cut 
each fillet into two pieces), place them on a wetted board, and bat them 
out smoothly with a thick wet knife ; season the outside of each fillet 
with a little salt and white pepper ; sprinkle lightly with lemon juice, 
and spread over this side a thin layer of Puree of Fish (whiting) ; double 
up the fillets, the masked side being in the centre, and place them in a 
buttered saute pan ; sprinkle them with lemon juice, place a buttered 

i 2 



116 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

paper over, and put them to cook in a moderate oven for about fifteen 
minutes, occasionally basting them over the paper with the liquor from 
the pan in which they are cooking ; when ready dish them on a potato 
border (vol. i.) straight down the dish, and pour the sauce, as below, 




over the fillets, and arrange, as in engraving, little bunches of potatoes 
that have been cut out in pea shapes and plainly boiled without breaking, 
then mixed with a little butter and finely chopped raw parsley. Serve 
for dinner or luncheon. 

Sauce for Fillets of Sole A la Josephine. Chop up the 
bones from the sole and place them in a stewpan with a wineglass of 
white wine, a sliced onion, a bunch of herbs (bayleaf, thyme, and parsley), 
a pinch of salt, and six or eight peppercorns; cover with about a 
pint and a half of cold water, bring to the boil, and skim, then simmer 
on the side of the stove for about twenty minutes ; strain off the liquor, 
and mix about a pint and a quarter of it into two ounces of butter, 
an ounce and a half of arrowroot, the pulp of three large raw tomatoes, 
a dust of Marshall's Coralline Pepper, a few drops of carmine, and the 
juice of a lemon, and stir over the fire till the mixture boils, then tammy 
and use while hot. 

Fillets of Sole a la Napier 
Filets de Sole & la Napier 

Take some fresh fillets of sole that have been freed from skin and 
bone, bat them out with a cold wet knife, and season the skin side with 
a little salt and white pepper, mask them with a thin layer of Lobster 
farce (see recipe), smooth this over with a hot wet knife, fold up the 
fillets with the farce inside, place them in a well-buttered saute pan, 
then with a forcing bag and plain pipe arrange a little of the farce on the 
top of each fillet, place on this three or four slices of truffle, a cooked 
mussel, a little finely cut cooked lobster, or prawns or crayfish bodies ; 
sprinkle the fillets well with strained lemon juice, put a buttered paper 
over them, and cook them in a moderate oven for about fifteen minutes, 
then dish up on a Potato puree (see recipe) and serve with Napier sauce 
round the base for a dressed fish for dinner. 



OF EXTRA RECIPES DRESSED FISH AND FISH ENTREES 117 

Fillets of Sole a la Pyreneenne 

Filets de Sole a la Pyreneenne 

Take the fillets from the sole, and if they are large cut them in two 
pieces, bat them out with a wet chopping knife, and season the skin side 
with coralline pepper and salt and a little lemon juice ; cut some raw 
potatoes in the shape of corks, such as are used in a pint bottle, then 
roll a fillet round each; cut some strips of foolscap paper, butter them, 
and in each piece roll a fillet of sole ; tie up with string and put into a 
stewpan with the juice of one lemon and three-quarters of a pint of fish 
stock, or two wineglassfuls of white wine and half a pint of water ; put 
the cover on the pan and stand it in a moderate oven. Cook for fifteen 
minutes, then take up and let the fillets cool in the liquor ; remove the 
paper, press out the potato carefully, and by means of a forcing bag 
and plain pipe fill up the space formed by it with a ragout prepared as 




below ; when this is set mask the fillets over with Pyreneenne sauce 
and then glaze this over with a little aspic jelly, which should be partly 
set. Dish up the fillets on a border of Aspic jelly (vol. i.), and serve 
with a salad of lettuce or raw cucumber or cooked salsifies, in the 
centre ; garnish the sides, as in engraving, with croutons which have 
been prepared as follows : Cut some bread in kite shapes, and fry them 
a pale golden colour in clean boiling fat ; when cool garnish with little 
bunches of caviar about the size of a small blackberry, and between each 
of these sprinkle a little lobster coral or Marshall's Coralline Pepper. 
Arrange little bunches of chopped aspic jelly round the base of the dish, 
and serve as dressed fish, or entree, or for second course, or any cold 
collation. 

Ragout for Centre of Sole a la Pyreneenne. Mix two 
ounces of chopped cooked lobster or shrimps, three boned and chopped 
Christiania anchovies, a saltspoonful of French mustard, the same of 
mixed English mustard, six or eight drops of lemon juice, a teaspoon- 
ful of chopped tarragon and chervil, and one tablespoonful of thick 



118 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

Mayonnaise sauce (vol. i.) with one gill of liquid aspic jelly ; add a little 
of Marshall's Liquid Carmine to make it a pretty salmon colour, stir on 
ice till set ; then put it into a forcing bag with a plain pipe and use. 

Pyreneenne Sauce. Fry together an ounce and a half of butter 
and the same amount of flour without discolouring ; reduce by boiling 
the liquor from the sole to a gill and a half ; then mix it with the 
fried butter and flour ; stir till it boils, then mix with half a pint of 
aspic jelly, half a gill of thick cream, and a few drops of liquid carmine, 
reduce to half the quantity, keeping it skimmed while boiling ; then 
tammy and use when cooling. This sauce is nice for masking any cold 
fish. 

Fillets of Sole a la Waleskie 

Filets de Sole a la Waleskie 

Take some fresh fillets of sole, bat them out with a cold wet knife, 
and season the underneath side with salt, lemon juice, and a little white 
pepper ; fold the fillets up with the seasoned side inside, and place them 
in a buttered saute pan ; sprinkle them well with lemon juice, put 
about a wineglassful of wine into the pan, cover over the fillets with a 
well-buttered paper, and cook them in a moderate oven for about twelve 
minutes. Chop up the bones and skin of the fish, put them into a 
stewpan with a wineglassful of white wine, one sliced onion, a sprig of 
thyme, two bayleaves, four or five peppercorns, a pinch of salt, the 
liquor from a tin of mushrooms, and three-quarters of a pint of water, 
a few beards of oysters, and a quarter of a pint of oyster liquor ; put the 




pan on the side of the stove, and when the contents boil remove the 

scum and let the bones simmer for about twenty minutes ; then strain 

off, and to three-quarters of a pint of the liquor add one ounce of 

arrowroot and two ounces of butter that have been stirred together till 

smooth, stir again till it boils, add the liquor in which the fillets were 

cooked, and tammy ; when ready to serve, dish up the fillets straight down 

the dish on a little border of Fish Farce (see recipe), pour the sauce over 

the fish and round the dish, dust over with grated Parmesan cheese, and 

then sprinkle lightly here and there with a little warm glaze, using the 

paste brush for the purpose ; brown the top with a red-hot salamander, 

and garnish with slices of truffle and prepared or fresh prawns, and serve 

at once for dinner fish. 



OF EXTRA RECIPES DRESSED FISH AND FISH ENTREES 119 

Turbot a la Ohambord 
Turbot & la Ohambord 

Trim a nice fresh turbot, rub it over with lemon juice and salt, and 
wash it well in clean cold water, then place it in a deep saucepan or fish 
kettle with (for a small fish) the juice of two lemons, and three gills of 
white wine, cover it over with a buttered paper, and put the cover on the 
pan; let it cook steadily on the side of the stove for fifteen to twenty minutes 
according to the size of the fish, then dish up on a hot dish, sprinkle 
over it a little warm glaze, and garnish it with cooked crayfish, blanched 
and bearded oysters, cooked sliced lobster, button mushrooms, and whole 
truffles arranged round the edge of the turbot, and some large slices of 
truffle in the centre. Make a good sauce from the liquor the fish was 
cooked in, and the liquor strained from the crayfish and the oysters, 
thus : put two ounces of butter, the same of flour, to fry a nice brown 
colour, then mix it with a pint altogether of the fish liquor as men- 
tioned above, stir till it boils, then add one ounce of good glaze and 
tammy. Serve some of the sauce in a sauceboat, and the rest round 
the dish. All the garnish should be warmed between two plates in a 
little mushroom liquor over boiling water for about ten minutes before 
using. 

Crayfish for Garnish. Wash the crayfish well while they are 
alive, and dry them in a cloth and put them in a stewpan with (say for 
two dozen) half a carrot, half a turnip, half a leek, a strip of celery, 
all cut in dice shapes, a bunch of herbs (thyme, bayleaf, and parsley), 
and six or eight crushed peppers ; cover down in the stewpan and fry 
for fifteen minutes in one ounce of butter, then add half a pint of 
Chablis and boil for fifteen minutes ; then take up and crack the shells, 
remove the meat, and use. 1 

Epigrams of Turbot a la Moderne 
Epigrammes de Turbot & la Moderne 

Eemove the fillets from a small turbot or plaice, take off the skin, and 
bat them out with a cutlet bat on a wet board, then cut them into nice 
neat fillets, season them with salt and a little lemon Juice, and place 
them in a buttered saute pan ; put a buttered paper over, and when 
ready to cook place them in the oven for about ten to twelve minutes ; 
boil half a pint of new milk with a blade of mace and one eschalot, and 

1 If the fresh crayfish cannot be got, they are kept in bottles, and are to be merely 
warmed and used. 



120 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

in another stewpan put two ounces of butter and two ounces of fine 
flour, and fry together ; then mix the milk on this, and stir till it boils ; 
add to it three raw yolks of eggs, a dust of coralline pepper, and a 
pinch of salt, and stir over the fire until it thickens ; add a teaspoonful 
of essence of anchovy, then tammy and mix with it two ounces of 
cooked turbot cut up in little dice shapes, two ounces of picked shrimps 
cut up, two hard-boiled yolks of eggs cut up, a teaspoonful of chopped 
parsley, and [four boned Christiania anchovies that are cut up in tiny 
square pieces. When this is cold take a small dessertspoonful of the 
mixture, roll it in fine flour, dip it into whole beaten-up egg, and then 
into freshly made white bread crumbs, and fry in clean boiling fat for 
four or five minutes; take up and dish on a potato border (vol. i.) 
alternately with the prepared fillets of turbot, sprinkle the latter 
alternately with lobster coral or coralline pepper and finely chopped 
green parsley ; arrange button mushrooms in the centre and Parsley 
sauce (vol. i.) round the dish, and serve for dinner 6r luncheon. Soles 
&c. can be cooked in a similar manner. 



Fillets of Turbot a l'lmperatrice 

Filets de Turbot a VImperat/rice 

Take the fillets from the turbot, remove the skin, and bat out the 
fillets with a wet chopping knife, occasionally dipping this in cold 
water, season them with a little white pepper, salt, and lemon juice, 
and mask the fillets over with white farce, as below ; make little round 
spaces in this with the finger, occasionally dipping it in a little hot 
water, and fill these spaces with the red farce, on which place a little 
round piece of cooked lobster ; place the fillets in a buttered saute pan, 
pour in a tablespoonful of lemon juice and the same of white wine ; put 
a well-buttered paper over the top, and cook in the oven for about 
fifteen minutes ; then dish up on a border of the farce, mask the fillets 
over with the thin white sauce, so that the fillets show through, and 
serve with red sauce round. Plaice or other fish can be cooked in the 
same way ; serve for a dinner or luncheon fish. 

Thest White Fish Sauce for Fillets of Turbot a lTmperatrice. 
Chop up and put the bones of the fish into a stewpan with one or two 
sliced onions, a bunch of herbs (thyme, parsley, bayleaf), six or eight 
peppercorns, a pinch of salt, and two wineglassfuls of white wine, and 
cover the bones with water ; boil for about fifteen to twenty minutes. 
Then put in another stewpan two ounces of butter and the same of fine 
flour ; fry these without discolouring, and then mix with one pint of 



OF EXTRA EECIPES DRESSED FISH AND FISH ENTREES 121 

the liquor from the fish bones, a gill of cream, and the liquor in which 
the fillets were cooked ; tammy it, and take about a quarter of the 
quantity, into which put about a quarter of a pint more of the fish 
stock to make it thin, and use as directed above. Red Sauce. Take 
the remainder of the white fish sauce, and add to it two tablespoonfuls 
of the trimmings from the lobster and a little liquid carmine ; mix up 
and pour round the base of the dish. 

Fish Farce for Fillets of Turbot a l'Imperatrice. Take eight 
ounces of white fish, the trimmings from the turbot, and some fresh 
haddock, all cut up ; also eight ounces of Panard (vol. i.) ; pound the 
fish and the panard separately, then mix together with an ounce of 
butter, a little salt, white pepper, and two eggs and a half into a smooth 
paste, rub through a fine sieve, divide into two parts, colour one with 
a little of Marshall's Liquid Carmine, and leave the other white. 

Fillets of Turbot a la Chartres 
Filet* de Turbot d la Chartres 

Remove the fillets from a nice turbot and cut them into neat pieces, 
bat them out with a cold wet knife, place them in a buttered saute pan, 
well sprinkle them with lemon juice and a little salt, put a well-buttered 
paper over them, and cook them in a moderate oven for about fifteen 




minutes, when they should be perfectly white ; dish them up on a border 
of Fish Farce (see recipe) that is arranged straight down the dish; 
mask them with the sauce prepared as below, garnish round the dish 
with Little Croustades of Fish (see recipe) and serve for a dressed fish 
for dinner. 

Sauce for Fillets of Turbot A la Chartres. Put the bones 
from the fish into a stewpan with two sliced onions, one or two strips 
of celery, three anchovies, a bunch of herbs, such as thyme, parsley, 
bayleaf, one dozen peppercorns, three sliced tomatoes, half a pint of 
white wine, the juice of one lemon, a pint and a half of water, and a 
little salt ; let the whole boil for half an hour, then remove the bones, 
and to the other ingredients add an ounce and a half of arrowroot 



122 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

that has been fried with two ounces of butter without browning ; add 
a dust of Marshall's Coralline Pepper; stir till it boils, then rub 
through a tammy, reboil and use. 

Fillets of Whiting a l'Ambassade 
Filets de Merlan d VAmbassade 

Remove the fillets from two or three fresh whiting, and take off the 
skin ; bat out the fillets with a cold wet knife, and if they are large cut 
each into two or three pieces ; trim these neatly, place them in a well- 
buttered saute* pan ; sprinkle over them a little salt and lemon juice, 
and put into the pan about two tablespoonfuls of cold water ; place a 
buttered paper over the fillets, and put them into a moderate oven to 



cook for ten to twelve minutes, then take them up and arrange them on 
a hot flat dish and pour Ambassade sauce completely over the fillets ; 
sprinkle over this some grated Parmesan cheese, and brown it with the 
salamander ; garnish round the dish, as in engraving, with croutons of 
bread that have been cut out with any fancy cutter and fried in clean 
fat till a pretty golden colour, then brushed over with a little warm 
glaze and dipped into grated Parmesan. Serve for a dressed fish for 
dinner or luncheon. 

Cream of Whiting with. White Wine 
Crdme de Merlan au Vin Blanc 

Pound ten ounces of scraped raw whiting in the mortar till smooth, 
then pound eight ounces of Panard (vol. i.) ; mix the fish and panard 
together, and add a pinch of coralline pepper and three whole eggs ; 
work into a smooth paste, then mix in three large tablespoonfuls of 
cream, and pass all through a fine wire sieve ; prepare a timbal mould 
by buttering the inside well and ornamenting it all round the mould 
with strips of finely chopped truffle and lobster coral alternately, then 
put the prepared mixture into a bag with a plain pipe, and fill up the 
mould with it ; knock the mould on the table to make the farce fall well 



OF EXTRA RECIPES DRESSED FISH AND FISH ENTREES 123 

into it ; then place it in a stewpan on a fold of kitchen paper with 
sufficient boiling water to cover three-fourths the depth of the mould, 
watch the water reboil, place the cover on the pan, draw it to the side 
of the stove and let the timbal steam for half an hour ; when cooked 
take up and turn out on to a hot entree dish or a flat dish, and pour 
White Wine sauce round. Serve as a dressed fish or as an entree. The 
quantities given above are sufficient for eight to ten persons. 



Fillets of Whiting a l'Excellence 
Filets de Merlon d /'Excellence 

Remove the fillets from some perfectly fresh whiting, free them from 
bone, and if they are large cut each fillet into two parts, bat these out 
with a wet knife, and place straight down each fillet a fillet of Christi- 
an ia anchovy, pressing well to the fillets of whiting ; trim them neatly 
and then season with finely chopped eschalot, parsley, washed and 
chopped fresh mushrooms, and a little pepper; sprinkle lightly with 
salad oil and leave in the seasoning for about an hour and a half. 
When ready to cook, sprinkle each fillet with Marshall's Creme de Riz, 
then dip each into whole beaten-up raw egg, and put them into sufficient 
boiling oil to cover them, fry for six to eight minutes, when they 
should be a pretty golden colour ; give them an occasional turn during 
the cooking. Dish up the fillets en couronne, and serve with sauce 
prepared as below round the dish. The bones from the fish can be used 
for fish stocks. 

Excellence Sauce. For six or eight persons put into a stewpan 
a gill and a half of white wine, bring it to the boil, then mix it on 
to one ounce of butter and the same of fine flour that has been fried 
without discolouring, stir these together till they boil, then tammy and 
mix with a quarter of a pint of whipped cream, add a teaspoonful of 
French capers, two finely chopped filleted Christiania anchovies, a tea- 
spoonful of very finely chopped parsley, a dust of ground ginger, a pinch 
of salt, and a dessertspoonful of strained lemon juice ; mix up together 
and use. 

Little Creams of Whiting a la Royale 
Petits Pains de Merlan & la Royale 

Remove the skin and bone from a nice fresh whiting, weigh half a 
pound of the meat, and pound it till smooth ; then pound six ounces of 
Panard (vol. i.) with six large sauce oysters, one ounce of butter, a little 
salt and coralline pepper, and mix it with the pounded fish, add to it 



124 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

three raw eggs and one tablespoonful of thick cream, r\ib all together 
through a wire sieve, and put the mixture into a forcing bag with a 
plain pipe. Butter some little bomb moulds, ornament them in any- 
pretty design with cut truffle, garnish round the bottom of the moulds 
with coral and finely chopped raw green parsley, and when the garnish 
is complete fill up the moulds with the fish mixture ; smooth this over with 
a hot wet knife, place the moulds on a sheet of paper in a stewpan contain- 




ing boiling water to about three parts the depth of the moulds, watch the 
water reboil, then cover the pan, draw it to the side of the stove and 
poach the creams for twenty-five minutes ; then take them up and dish 
on a potato border, and serve with sauce prepared as below round the 
base. Garnish the centre with cut cooked lobster, bearded oysters, and 
truffle and mushroom which have been warmed in the bain-marie in a 
little mushroom liquor, and serve as a fish entree for dinner or luncheon. 
Sauce for Little Creams of Whiting A la Royale. Take the 
oyster beards and liquor, the skin and bones from the whiting, a bunch 
of herbs (thyme, parsley, and bayleaf ), two sliced onions, a quarter of a 
pint of mushroom liquor, a pint and a half of water, three or four 
peppercorns, a little salt, and the juice of two lemons; put all together 
into a stewpan and boil for half an hour ; strain it and mix one pint of 
the liquor on to two ounces of flour and two ounces of butter that have 
been fried together without discolouring ; add a gill of cream and one 
ounce of grated Parmesan cheese, stir all together till it boils, and wring 
through a clean tammy. 

Little Souffles of Whiting 
Petits Souffles de Merlan 

Put an ounce and a half of butter in a stewpan with an 
ounce and a half of fine flour,'] half a teaspoonful of essence of 
anchovy, a pinch of salt, a dust of Marshall's Coralline Pepper, and 
two raw yolks of eggs ; mix with rather better than a gill and a half of 
cold milk, stir all together over the fire till the mixture boils, remove 
from the fire, mix into it a dessertspoonful of cream or milk and 



OF EXTEA EECIPES DEESSED FISH AND FISH ENTEEES 125 

four ounces and a half of pounded or very finely chopped raw whiting ; 
then mix in carefully three whites of egg that have been whipped stiff 
with a pinch of salt. Have some little paper cases oiled on the outside 
and dried in the screen, and partly fill these with the souffle mixture. 
Sprinkle on the top of each a few browned bread crumbs, put a very tiny 
bit of butter on the top of this to keep the souffles from getting dry, and 
place them on a baking tin and bake in a moderate oven for about 
fifteen minutes. This mixture can also be baked in a large case or pie 
dish, and is excellent when steamed. The entire quantity baked in one 
case will require about half an hour's cooking. Serve as an entree or in 
the fish course, or for a second-course dish in place of game or poultry. 



Souffle of Whiting in Surprise 
Souffle" de Merlan en Surprise 

Take a well-buttered souffle tin, surround the outside with a band 
of thickly buttered kitchen paper to stand four or five inches above the 
top of the tin, and fasten it securely ; place a straight buttered bottle, 
about two to three inches in width, in the centre of the tin to stand a 
little higher than the paper, put the prepared souffle mixture into a 
forcing bag with a large plain pipe and force it out into the tin round 
the bottle (leaving about two tablespoonfuls of the mixture in the bag), 
sprinkle over the souffle a few browned bread crumbs, place it on a 
baking tin and put it in a moderate oven for about twenty minutes, 
then take it from the oven, remove the bottle immediately and fill in 
the space with the prepared ragout, press it well to the bottom, cover 
the top of the ragout with the remainder of the souffle mixture that is 
in the bag, sprinkle over this a few more browned bread crumbs, put 
a few pieces of butter about half the size of a Spanish nut here and 
there on the top, put the souffle again into the oven for about half an 
hour, turning it round occasionally, cover it with a piece of wet kitchen 
paper should it become too brown on the top. When the souffle is a 
nice golden brown colour take it up, remove the paper band, surround 
it with a neatly folded napkin, place it on a dish-paper on a hot dish, 
sprinkle over the top a little coralline pepper and a little fresh raw 
green parsley, and serve at once. 

Souffle Mixture for Whiting in Surprise. Put into a clean 
stewpan three ounces of fine flour, three ounces and a half of good 
butter, four whole raw eggs, a quarter-ounce of salt, half a salt- 
spoonful of Marshall's Coralline Pepper, and twelve Kriiger's Appetit 



126 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

Sild rubbed through a sieve ; mix in not quite one pint of cold new 
milk, and stir over the fire till it boils, then add two tablespoonfuls of 
cream, half a pound of finely chopped raw whiting that has been freed 
from skin and bone ; mix together till perfectly smooth, then add to it 
the very stiffly whipped whites of six raw eggs that are seasoned with 
a little salt, taking care not to stir the mixture more than is absolutely 
necessary after adding the whites of eggs ; put into a forcing bag with 
a large plain pipe and use. 

Kagout for Whiting m Surprise. Take half a cooked lobster, 
free it from skin and bone, twelve raw bearded sauce oysters, eight or 
ten cooked button mushrooms, two or three truffles, a quarter of a pint 
of crayfish bodies (prepared in bottle), and the same of picked prawns 
prepared or fresh ; cut these all into little dice pieces, mix all together 
and use. 

Fish, a la Creme 
Poisson d la Cr&me 

Take the remains of any cold fish (that left from a previous meal 
will do) ; then prepare a potato border (vol. i.), roll some of the potato 
into little balls, and arrange these all round the top of the border, brush 
them over with whole raw egg, then place the border in the centre of 
the dish on which the fish is to be served, first well buttering the dish. 
Prepare one pint of thick Bechamel sauce (vol. i.) to which one and a 
half ounce of grated Parmesan cheese has been added and arrange about 
two tablespoonfuls of it on the dish inside the border ; place on this a 




layer of the cooked fish, and continue this process until the border is 
quite filled. Put some of the Bechamel sauce in a forcing bag with a 
large rose pipe, and with it form a pretty design on the top of the last 
layer of the mixture, as shown in engraving ; sprinkle some browned 
bread crumbs lightly over the top, and here and there place a tiny piece 
of butter to keep the top moist. Place the dish in a baking tin con- 
taining some boiling water, and cook in a quick, oven for about thirty 
minutes, when the potato should be a pretty brown colour. Place it 
on another dish on a napkin, aud serve for luncheon. 



OF EXTRA RECIPES DRESSED FISH AND FISH EX TREES 127 

Fish Cream a la Metz 
Crime de Poisson cl la Metz 

Pound together till quite smooth four ounces of cooked lobster, two 
ounces of picked shrimps, six boned anchovies, a good dust of coralline 
pepper, a few drops of carmine, two hard-boiled yolks of egg, a large tomato 
and a quarter-pint of thick Mayonnaise sauce (vol. i.). Then mix it all with 
half a pint of liquid aspic jelly, and four tablespoonfuls of cream ; rub it 
through a hair sieve, and when beginning to set pour it into a Neapolitan 
icebox ; place this in a charged ice cave for an hour, then dip it into 




cold water, turn it out in the usual way and place on a dish, and garnish 
round the top edges with finely chopped aspic jelly, using a bag and 
forcing pipe, and on the dish tiny raw tomatoes that have been freed 
from pips and skin, and seasoned with salad oil, tarragon and chilli 
vinegar, chopped eschalot, and parsley, and filled Dp with cooked 
lobster cut up in little dice shapes, and seasoned similarly to the toma- 
toes, and on the lobster put a little Mayonnaise sauce (vol. i.), using a 
forcing-bag and small rose pipe for the purpose. Serve for an entree 
for dinner, luncheon, &c. The cream can also be served cut in slices 
and dished en couronne. 



Little Creams of Fish with "White Wine Sauce 
I 'elites Cremes de Poisson au Vin Bin 

Lightly butter some little fish moulds and sprinkle them alternately 
with finely chopped truffle and lobster coral ; then with a forcing-bag 
and plain pipe partly fill each with fish farce prepared as below ; arrange 
this well round the moulds, leaving a little well or hole in the centre 
of each cream ; this should be made with the finger, which should be 
occasionally dipped into hot water. Fill up the spaces thus formed 
with about a teaspoonful of cooked lobster and truffles, or button mush- 
rooms cut up in little dice shapes ; cover this over with a little more of 
the farce, and smooth over the tops with a hot wet knife. Place the 
moulds in a saute pan on a piece of paper ; cover them with boiling fish 
stock, place the pan on the stove, and let the liquor reboil ; then draw 



128 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

the pan to the edge of the stove, cover it over, and poach the creams 
for about fifteen minutes. When cooked, turn them out, and dish them 




en couronne on a border of the Fish Farce (see recipe) or potato, and serve 
with White Wine sauce over. Serve for a fish entree for dinner or 
luncheon while quite hot. 

Farce for Little Creams of Fish. Free from bone and skin ten 
ounces of scraped fresh haddock, and pound it till smooth, then pound 
eight ounces of panard ; mix these together and season with a little of 
Marshall's Coralline Pepper, a saltspoonful of salt, and three whole raw 
eggs ; mix up all together into a smooth paste, and rub it through a 
wire sieve ; mix with it a large tablespoonful of cream, and use. 

Little Oroustades of Fish. 
Petites Croustades an Poisson 

Rub two ounces of butter into a quarter-pound of fine flour till smooth, 
mix with it a pinch of salt, a dust of coralline pepper, two raw yolks of 
eggs, and sufficient cold water to make it into a stiff paste ; roll out 
thinly, and with it line some little croustade cups ; prick the paste well 
at the bottom to prevent it blistering, trim the paste evenly, line it with 
a buttered paper, fill up with raw rice or any dry grain and bake them 
till a pretty golden colour; then remove the papers and rice and fill 
up the centres with the ragout prepared as below, place a little ring of 
the same paste on the top of each croustade, and use. Serve on a dish- 
paper, or use for garnishing turbot, salmon, &c, for dinner or luncheon 
entree. 

Ragout for Little Croustades of Fish. Remove the bones from a 
hen lobster, cut the meat into neat square pieces (or take one bottle of 
prawns or crayfish), mix with a little cut truffle, button mushrooms, and 
sauce prepared as below, and use. 

Sauce for Croustades. Fry one ounce of butter with half an ounce 
of arrowroot without browning, mix with one and a half gill of mush- 
room liquor, a few drops of lemon juice and a tablespoonful of sherry ; 
stir till boiling, tammy, and use. 



OF EXTRA RECIPES DRESSED FISH AND FISH ENTREES 129 

Little Timbals of Fish a la Sultan 
Petites Timbales de Poisson a la Sultan 

Line some Monaco moulds thinly with aspic jelly and fill them up 
with a puree prepared as below, let the mixture set, then dip the moulds 
into hot water, turn out the timbals and arrange them on an entree dish, 
surround them with a salad of lettuce or endive or small mixed salad, and 




fill up the tops of the timbals with crayfish bodies (in bottle) or a ragout 
of any nice cooked fish such as mussels, oysters, shrimps, pieces of cold 
salmon, &c, mixed with a little salad oil, tarragon vinegar, a little 
finely-chopped tarragon, chervil, eschalot, and mignonette pepper, and 
use for ball supper or second course. 

Puree for Timbal A la Sultan. Take a quarter of a pint of 
picked and finely-chopped shrimps, two ounces of raw dried haddock 
that has been rubbed through a wire sieve with four washed and boned 
anchovies, mix these with a tablespoonful of thick Mayonnaise sauce 
(vol. i.), a saltspoonful of English mustard and the same of French, a 
dessertspoonful of tarragon vinegar, two tablespoonfuls of thick cream, 
one tablespoonful of salad oil and an ounce of chopped lax ; stir together, 
add half a pint of cool aspic jelly, then pass through the tammy or fine 
hair sieve and use when beginning to set. 

Little Fish, a la St. Pierre 
Petits Poissons a la St. Pierre 

Take one large fish mould and some small fish moulds and line them 
thinly with Aspic jelly (see recipe, vol. i.), ornament them with cut 
truffle to represent the eyes, and gold and silver leaf that is mixed in a 
little liquid aspic for the bodies, and mask the fins with red-coloured 
jelly ; set all with jelly and then line the moulds with Mayonnaise aspic 
(vol. i.), using the part coloured red in one fish, and the white in another, 
and so on until all the moulds are lined ; when this is set place in the 

K 



130 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

centres of the moulds any nice pieces of cooked fish, such as salmon, 
lobster, or any white fish, and a few picked leaves of tarragon and 
chervil, and fill up the moulds with consomme that is made to set 
with a little gelatine, and use when cooling ; when the mixture is set 
dip the moulds into hot water, turn out the fish and dish them up on a 
bed of chopped pale green coloured Aspic (vol. i.), made by adding a 




few drops of Marshall's Sap Green to some ordinary aspic, and garnish 
with thick Mayonnaise sauce by means of a bag and a large rose pipe, 
and with bunches of French capers, raw cucumber, and cooked beet- 
root, cut out in rounds with a pea cutter, and separately mixed with 
a little salad oil, tarragon vinegar, and a little chopped tarragon; 
arrange these here and there in little groups, and serve for a cold 
collation or for a ball supper. 

Little Fish a la Waddington 
Petits Poissons a la Waddington 

Butter some little crayfish moulds very lightly, and fill them by 
means of a forcing bag and plain pipe with fish farce prepared as below, 
knock the moulds on the table so that the mixture is well pressed to 
the shapes, and place them in a saute pan on a piece of paper ; cover 




them with boiling fish stock (made from the bones of fish) or water, 
and bring to the boil ; then put the cover on the pan, draw it to the side 
of the stove and let the little fish poach for about fifteen minutes, 
taking care that they do not continue boiling ; when cooked take up, 



OF EXTRA RECIPES DRESSED FISH AND FISH ENTRIES 131 

and when quite cold turn them out on to a clean cloth. Wash the 
moulds and line them very thinly with Aspic jelly (vol. i.), then orna- 
ment them with very thin strips of French chillies, and put little 
rounds of truffle to represent the eyes ; set this garnish with a few drops 
of aspic jelly, then replace the cooked fish, set these with aspic jelly, 
and when cold dip the moulds into hot water and turn out the fish ; 
dish them up on a pile of finely chopped aspic jelly, as in engraving, 
sprinkle here and there a little lobster coral or coralline pepper and 
finely chopped parsley, and at intervals place a little thick Tartare 
sauce (vol. i.) ; garnish the centre with cooked button mushrooms and 
truffle if liked. This is a nice and elegant dish for a ball supper &c. 

Farce for Little Fish a la Waddixgton. Take a nice fresh 
haddock, remove the skin, scrape off the meat, and pound it in the 
mortar till smooth, then add to it six ounces of Panard (vol. i.), a large 
tablespoonful of thick Bechamel sauce and one ounce of butter ; pound 
all together till quite smooth, then add three whole eggs, a dust of 
Marshall's Coralline Pepper, and a pinch of salt, and rub through a fino 
wire sieve ; mix with three tablespoonfuls of cream, and use as directed 
above. 



K 2 



132 MRS. A. 13. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 



CHAPTER V 

HOT ENTREES 

(See also Chapters IV, VII, and XIV) 

Grilled Fillets of Beef a la Diable 

Filets de Boeuf grilles a la Didble 

Take a piece of fillet of beef and cut it into nice round slices half 
.an inch thick and three inches in diameter; well season them with 
Marshall's Coralline Pepper, salt, and chutney and salad oil ; wrap each 
fillet in a piece of cleansed dry pork caul, brush over with whole beaten- 
up egg, dip each into freshly-made white bread crumbs, put them in a 
well-greased hot grilliron and cook before a good bright fire till a nice 
golden colour for about eight to ten minutes, occasionally turning them 
from side to side while cooking. Then take up and dish the fillets on a 
bed of tomatoes prepared as below, pour the prepared sauce round the 
base, and serve at once for an entree for dinner or as a breakfast or 
luncheon dish. 

Tomatoes for Fillets of Beef A la Diable. Cut some raw ripe 
tomatoes into slices, season them with chopped eschalot, Coralline Pepper, 
and finely-chopped fresh mushrooms, put them into a well-buttered saute 
pan, cover with a buttered paper, and cook for about ten minutes in a 
moderate oven ; take up and use. 

Sauce for Fillets of Beef A la Diable. Take a teaspoonful of 
mixed English mustard, the same of French mustard, a dust of cayenne 
pepper, the juice of a lemon, a teaspoonful of chutney, the same of curry 
powder, a teaspoonful of Liebig Company's Extract of Meat, one and 
a half gills of Brown sauce (vol. i.), and a teaspoonful of anchovy essence ; 
boil up altogether and use. 

Fillets of Beef a la Canadienne 

Filets de Boeuf a la Canadienne 

Cut a nice fillet of beef into slices about an inch thick, free them 
from skin and fat, make a little pocket in the centre of each and put 
into it a raw bearded sauce oyster that is seasoned with a little coralline 



OF EXTRA RECIPES HOT ENTREES 133 

pepper and about a teaspoonful of Maltre d'Hotel butter (vol. i.) ; tie up 
with cotton, season the outside with salt and salad oil and grill them in 
front of a quick fire for about ten minutes, turning them only once while 
cooking. Take up, remove the cotton, dish up the fillets on a hot dish, 
pour over them the prepared sauce, and serve while quite hot for dinner 
or luncheon. 

Sauce for Fillets of Beef a la Canadienne. Put into a stewpan 
the gravy from the oysters, a wineglassful of sherry, two finely-chopped 
fresh mushrooms, half an ounce of glaze, half a gill of good Brown sauce 
(vol. i.), one eschalot chopped fine, two Christiania anchovies rubbed 
through a sieve ; stir all together over the fire till boiling, then simmer for 
five or six minutes and use. 

Fillets of Beef a la Carlsbad 
Filets de Boeuf d la Carlsbad 

Take a piece of tender fillet of beef and cut it into slices about three- 
quarters of an inch thick, bat them out with a cold wet chopping-knife, 
trim each into neat little rounds about two inches in diameter, putting 
a small piece of fat with each fillet, season them with salt and coralline 
pepper, steep in a little warm butter, and grill or broil for ten to twelve 
minutes, turning them only once during the cooking. When done, take 
them up on a plate, brush them over with a little warm glaze, dish up 
en couronne on a puree of potato that has been arranged on the dish by 
means of a forcing bag with a large rose pipe, fill up the centre with a 
compote of cherries (see recipe), and serve quite hot with Carlsbad sauce 
round for an entree for dinner or luncheon. Venison or veal can be 
prepared in the same manner. 

Fillets of Beef a la Claudine 
Wilets de Boeuf d la Claudine 

Take a piece of the undercut of sirloin of beef and cut it into 
slices about half an inch thick ; bat them out with a cold wet chopping 
knife, trim off any skin and fat, and form them into nice round fillets ; 
season them with salt, coralline pepper, and salad oil, cut the fat into as 
many pieces as you have fillets, and grill both in front of a brisk fire 
for about ten minutes, turning them once only while cooking. Then 
take up the fillets, arrange them straight down the dish, brush them over 
with a little warm glaze, place a piece of fat on each fillet, pour round 
the dish some boiling Claudine sauce (see recipe), and serve while hot 
for breakfast, dinner, or luncheon. 



134 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

Fillets of Beef a la Mecklenburg 
Filets de Boeuf d la Mecklenburg 

Take a piece of fillet of beef, and cut it into slices about half an inch 
thick, bat them out with a cold wet chopping-knife, removing all skin and 
unnecessary fat but leaving a small piece of fat attached to each, season 
with salt, coralline pepper, and salad oil, chopped fresh mushroom and 
eschalot; grill or broil for seven to ten minutes, then take up and 
arrange the fillets straight down a hot entree dish ; pour over them a good 
Mecklenburg sauce (see recipe), and serve while quite hot for an entree 
for dinner or luncheon. Fillets of veal are excellent cooked in this 
way. 

Little Fillets of Beef a la Moville 
Petil* Filets de Boeuf d /" Moville 

Remove all the skin and fat from a small piece of fillet of beef, and 
cut the meat into slices about a quarter of an inch thick, bat them out 
with a cold wet chopping knife, trim them into neat little fillets about 
one and a half inches wide, season them with coralline pepper and salt, 
place them in a buttered saute pan and saute them over a quick fire, 
turning them only once during the cooking. Then take them up, pour 
the fat from the pan, and put into the latter two tablespoonfuls of shei'ry, 
a tablespoonful of warm glaze, two or three finely-chopped fresh washed 
mushrooms, one finely-chopped eschalot, and a teaspoonful of finely- 
chopped parsley ; boil up altogether for two or three minutes, then place 
in the fillets and just bring to the boil. Then dish up the fillets on a 
puree of potatoes with slices of cooked tomatoes (see recipe) between 
each fillet, garnish the centre with a ragout prepared as below, and serve 
with Moville sauce round the base. 

RagoCt for Fillets of Beef a la Moville. Take the marrow 
from a fresh beef bone, blanch it and cut it in slices, and add it to one 
or two sliced truffles and six or eight button mushrooms ; mix altogether 
with a little sherry, a teaspoonful of thin glaze or consomme that has been 
reduced to a creamy consistency, make hot together in the bain-marie, 
and use. 

Fillets of Beef a la Riga 
Filets de Boeuf d la Riga 

Take, for six to eight persons, one pound of fillet of beef, and cut it 
into thin slices ; bat these out with a wet chopping-knife, season them 
with a little coralline pepper and salt, and place a thin slice of fat 



OF EXTRA RECIPES HOT ENTREES 



135 



bacon (cut to the same shape as the fillets) on each ; thinly mask this 
bacon with Beef farce (see vol. i.), using a forcing bag and plain pipe 
for it, and on the farce place a thin slice or two of button mushrooms 
or truffle, and roll up the fillets in cylinder shapes, with the farce, &c, 
inside ; place in little bands of buttered paper, and tie them up with 
thin string to keep them in proper form. Put about one ounce of 
butter in a stewpan, with two or three slices of carrot and turnip, a 
little celery, a bunch of herbs (thyme, parsley, and bayleaf), one or two 
sliced onions, and six or eight peppercorns ; place the fillets on the 



'"'^<fr"$if^.^s^ 



vegetables, and fry altogether for about fifteen minutes with the lid on 
the pan, then add a quarter-pint of good stock and put the pan in the 
oven ; braise the fillets for one hour, occasionally basting them while 
cooking, then take up and remove the papers, brush the fillets over with 
a little warm glaze, and place them on a baking tin in the oven for 
another four to five minutes to get crisp ; dish up as in engraving, and 
garnish with slices of cooked tomatoes (see recipe) round the top and 
between the fillets at the bottom ; place' peas in the centre, and pour 
Espagnol sauce (vol. i.) round the base. 



Fillets of Beef a la Sardou 
Filets de Boeuf a la Sardou 

Take for five or six persons a piece of lean fillet of beef weighing 
about one and a half pounds, cut it into slices about one inch thick by 
two and a half inches wide, and bat these out with a cold wet knife ; 
trim off any fat and skin with a small pointed knife and make an 
incision in the centre of each fillet sufficiently large to hold a raw 
bearded oyster that is seasoned with a little finely-chopped parsley and 
a tiny dust of Marshall's Coralline Pepper and a small piece of good 
glaze about half the size of a small Spanish nut ; lard the top part, of 
each fillet with finely-cut lardons of bacon, trim them evenly, then place 
the oyster and glaze inside the incisions, and fill up the spaces, by means 
of a forcing bag and a small plain pipe, with a beef farce (vol. i.) ; 
then dip the fillets in warm butter, place them on a grilliron and grill 



136 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

for six to eight minutes, then place the grill on a baking tin and put it 
in a quick oven ; let it remain for about ten minutes, then take up, brush 
the fillets lightly over with warm glaze, and dish up straight down the 
centre of a hot entree dish, on a puree of chestnuts (see recipe, vol. i. 
page 34) ; pour Sardou sauce round the dish, and serve for an entree- 
for dinner. 

Little Fillets of Beef a la Valais 
Petits Filets de Boeuf a la Valais 

Cut some very small round slices from the fillet of beef, bat them 
out with a knife, dipping it occasionally in cold water to prevent the 
meat sticking to it ; then trim the fillets neatly, and season them with a 
little salt and pepper, and pique them with truffle and mushroom and 
bacon ; place them in a well-buttered saute pan and saute them lightly 
on the under side for four or five minutes, then place them in the oven 
to finish cooking for the same time with a buttered paper over, then dish 
them up on a border of puree of mushrooms (vol. i.) or any nice vegetables, 
such as a pur6e of spinach (vol. i.), &c. ; place a little round piece of foie 
gras on the top of each fillet of beef, and on the foie gras a slice of truffle ; 
serve round the base a good Espagnol sauce (vol. i.), with two or three 
shredded truffles added when just about to serve. This can be served 
for dinner or luncheon. 

Cutlets of Beef a la Moltke 
Cotelettes de Boeuf a la Moltke 

Take half a pound of raw lean fillet of beef, a quarter pound of lean 
cooked ham or tongue, two capsicums freed from pips, four ounces 
of panard, one tablespoonful of thick Brown sauce (vol. i.), and one 
ounce of butter ; pound the meat till quite smooth, season with a little 
salt and a dust of Marshall's Coralline Pepper, then pound the other in- 
gredients and mix altogether with three whole raw eggs ; colour with a 
few drops of carmine, and rub through a wire sieve. Butter some cutlet 
tins, fill them with the prepared mixture by means of a forcing bag and 
pipe, smooth each over with a hot wet knife, place the moulds in a saute* 
pan on a fold of paper, cover with a buttered paper, surround with water 
to cover the bottoms of the moulds ; place the pan in the oven and poach 
the cutlets for about fifteen minutes, then turn them out, dish on a 
border of Farce or Potato (vol. i.), mask them over with Moltke sauce, 
serve with the prepared ragout in the centre for dinner or luncheon. 

Ragout for Cutlets of Beef A la Moltke. Take one ounce of 



OF EXTRA RECIPES HOT ENTREES 137 

boiled Sparghetti (see recipe), cut it into one-inch lengths, also four or 
five cooked button mushrooms, one or two truffles cut in a similar way, 
and a tablespoonful of finely-shredded lean cooked ham ; mix with suffi- 
cient thick cream to moisten, add one ounce of grated Parmesan cheese 
and a dust of coralline pepper, make hot in the bain-marie, and use. 



Outlets of Beef a la Portugaise 
Cotelettes de Boeuf a la Portugaise 

Take some cold roast beef for this dish (that left from a previous- 
meal would do nicely for the purpose), and for eight to ten persons take 
one pound of the meat, a quarter of a pound of lightly fried fat and lean 
bacon, one very finely chopped raw eschalot, and four well washed and 
boned anchovies, a saltspoonful of Marshall's Coralline Pepper ; pound 
these altogether till quite smooth with two tablespoonfuls of thick Brown 
sauce (vol. i.), and the strained juice of one lemon, or pass through n 
mincing machine twice, and then rub all together through a coarse wire 
sieve ; mix with a dessertspoonful of finely-chopped parsley, one and a 
half ounces of freshly-made white breadcrumbs, and three raw yolks of 
eggs ; stir up well together into a smooth consistency, and then divide 
it into small portions of about a dessertspoonful each and roll lightly into 
fine flour, then dip into whole beaten-up raw egg and into freshly made 
white breadcrumbs, and with a palette knife form them into cutlet shapes 
in thickness rather better than a quarter of an inch ; place these in a 
frying basket and fry in clean boiling fat, of which there should be suf- 
ficient to cover them, till the bread crumbs are perfectly crisp and the 
cutlets a pretty golden colour. Dish up on a puree of potato, and serve 
with Tomato puree (vol. i.) round the base and any nice green vegetables 
in the centre. Serve for an entree for dinner or luncheon. Mutton 
or veal can be treated in the same wav. 



Little Creams of Beef 
Petite Pains de Bceuf 

Butter some little bomb moulds, and sprinkle them all over with 
finely-chopped button mushrooms and raw chopped green parsley, from 
which all moisture has been pressed ; then fill them with beef farce 
prepared as below, and put them in a stewpan ; place a piece of paper 
between them and the stewpan ; pour in boiling water to about three- 
fourths of the depth of the moulds ; watch the water reboil ; then draw 



138 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

the pan to the edge of the stove, place on the cover, and let the little 
creams steam for about fifteen minutes. When poached, turn out of the 
moulds and dish on a potato border (vol. i.), and with a forcing bag and 




rose pipe garnish the top of each cream, as in engraving, with a puree of 
potato ; pour White Mushroom sauce (see recipe) round the base of the 
dish, and serve for an entree. 

Beef Farce for Little Creams of Beef. Pound ten ounces of 
lean beef till quite smooth ; then pound four ounces of Panard (vol. i.), 
and mix both together ; add two tablespoonfuls of thick reduced Espagnol 
sauce (vol. i), a few drops of carmine, a dust of Marshall's Coralline Pepper, 
a pinch of salt, one ounce of good butter, and two and a half eggs ; work 
into a smooth paste, rub through a wire sieve, then mix in two table- 
spoonfuls of cream, and use by means of a forcing bag and plain pipe. 



Toumedos a la Bearnaise 

Tournedos a la Bearnaise 

Take a nice piece of lean fillet of beef and cut it, through the reverse 
way of the grain, into slices about a quarter of an inch thick, and from 
this cut neat fillets about two and a half inches long, forming then into 
kite shapes ; place these in a well-buttered saute pan, season with a little 
finely-chopped eschalot, coralline pepper, and salt, and fry over a quick 
fire for four to five minutes, during which time turn the fillets once ; then 
take up on a plate and wipe out the pan in which they were fried, and 
put into it one ounce of good glaze and a wineglassful of cooking sherry, 
stir till boiling ; then add the pieces of meat to it, sprinkle them with 
sliced truffle and cooked button mushrooms, then dish up on a potato 
or spinach border (vol. i.) that is arranged on the dish by means of a 
forcing bag and large rose pipe, and serve round it a good Bearnaise 
sauce (vol. i.). Use for an entree for dinner or luncheon while quite 
hot. 



OF EXTRA RECIPES HOT ENTREES 139 

Tournedos a la Chauron 
Toumedos a la Ghauron 

Take a piece of fillet of beef weighing from one and a half to two 
pounds ; cut from it, the reverse way of the grain, some slices about one 
inch thick, then cut these into kite-shaped pieces about three inches long, 
removing any fat and skin ; bat them out with a cold wet chopping- 
knife, and trim off the edges neatly ; place the fillets on a plate, season 
them with salt and coralline pepper, put them in a well-buttered saute 
pan, place the pan on a very quick fire and saute the pieces on both 
sides, turning them only once during the cooking ; then take up and 
arrange them straight down an entree dish on a puree of mushrooms or 
potato (vol. i.) ; brush the pieces of meat over with good flavoured light 
glaze, place a large slice of truffle on each piece, and serve with Chauron 
sauce (vol. i.) round the dish ; sprinkle a few slices of truffle here and 
there on the sauce, and serve for an entree for dinner or luncheon while 
quite hot. 

Friantines of Marrow a 1' Alsace 
Wriantines de Mobile d I'Ahace 

Split a beef marrow-bone, but do not break the marrow ; remove 
the marrow from the bone and put it into cold water with a pinch of 
salt ; put this to get hot, but do not allow it to boil ; then strain the 
marrow and keep it in cold water till wanted, when it should be cut in 
slices about a quarter of an inch thick, using a hot wet knife for the 
purpose. Place these slices on a baking-tin or dish and mask them 
with the sauce prepared as below, and on the sauce place a slice or two 
of truffle and the same of cooked button mushrooms that are cut about 
an eighth of an inch thick ; put aside on ice till the sauce is quite firm, 
then dip each slice into frying batter (vol. i.) ; drop them into clean 
boiling fat or oil and fry for three to four minutes till a nice golden 
colour; when cooked take up and dish on a dish-paper, stick a few 
strips of cut truffle and mushroom in each, sprinkle each over with a 
little finely-chopped parsley. These are excellent for a second-course dish 
or for an entree for dinner or for luncheon, and should be served while 
very hot. 

Sauce for Friantixes of Marrow. Put half a pint of good 
Brown sauce (vol. i.) into a stewpan with two finely-chopped eschalots, 
an ounce of glaze, half a wineglassful of sherry, a pinch of castor sugar, 



140 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

two or three small finely-chopped fresh mushrooms ; boil down to half the- 
quantity, keeping the sauce well skimmed while boiling, and use when 
beginning to set. 

Fritot a la St. Marks 

Fritot d la St. Marl;* 

Split a large beef marrow-bone lengthwise, remove the marrow 
without breaking it, put it into a stewpan in cold water seasoned with a 
little salt, stand the pan on the stove and let the water get quite hot, 
but do not let it boil ; then take up the marrow and put it into cold 
water for a few minutes, then by means of a hot wet knife cut it through 
into nice slanting slices a quarter of an inch thick ; place these on a 
dish, season them with salt, coralline pepper, and a little warm glaze. 
Cut some raw ripe tomatoes into very fine slices, free them from skin, 
season them with a little sherry and salt, sprinkle them with very finely 
chopped lean cooked ham. Place a piece of the dressed marrow on each 
slice of tomato (putting the seasoned side of the marrow next the 
tomato), and by means of a forcing bag with a plain pipe mask the 
tops of the marrow with a little of the prepared puree, cover with a 
piece of cleansed and dried pork caul ; dip each separately into frying 
batter (vol. i.), and fry them in clean boiling fat a nice golden colour, 
carefully turning them from side to side with a slice while cooking. 
Take them up on a hot baking-tin, sprinkle a little warm glaze and 
grated Parmesan or Gruyere cheese over each, and brown quickly with 
the salamander. Dish them up mi couronne on a dish-paper on a hot 
dish, and serve as an entree for dinner or luncheon or as a second course 
dish. 

Puree for Fritot a la St. Marks. Pound a quarter of a pound 
of cooked chicken or other bird with a large tablespoonful of cold Brown 
sauce, one ounce of good butter, a dust of coralline pepper, a little salt, 
and two tablespoonfuls of thick cream ; rub altogether through a wire 
sieve, add half an ounce of fresh white breadcrumbs, then put into a 
forcing bag with a large plain pipe, and use. 

Mutton Outlets a 1' Alexandra 

Cotelettes de Mouton a V Alexandra 

Take the best part of a small neck of mutton, cut into neat cutlets, 
trim them, remove all unnecessary fat and skin, bat them out with a 
cold wet chopping-knife ; place them on a plate, season them with a 
little salt, Marshall's Coralline Pepper, a little finely-chopped eschalot,. 



OF EXTRA RECIPES HOT ENTREES 141 

.and lean chopped ham or tongue ; sprinkle with salad oil and grill 
before a brisk fire for five to seven minutes, during which time turn 
them once only ; take them up on a hot plate, brush them over with a 
little warm thin glaze, dust over with grated Parmesan cheese, brown 
quickly with the salamander, dish up straight down the dish on a bed of 
rice prepared as below, and serve at once with Soubise sauce (vol. i.) 
round the base for an entree for dinner or luncheon. Frills may be used 
if liked. 

Eice for Cutlets a l' Alexandra. Prepare a quarter of a pound 
of Patna rice as in vol. i. page 32, put it into the screen for an hour to 
dry, and just before serving turn it out on to a clean baking-tin ; pour 
over it two ounces of warm fresh butter and put into a quick oven for 
eight to ten minutes, arrange on the entree dish ; place here and there 
at intervals a tablespoonful of Tomato butter (vol. i.) in a slanting posi- 
tion to give it an effective appearance. 

Mutton Cutlets h l'Ancienne 
Cdtelettes de Mouton d V Andean f 

Take the best end of a small neck of mutton, cut it into neat cutlets, 
bat them out with a cold wet chopping-knife, remove all skin and 
unnecessary fat, season the cutlets with pepper, salt, and a little curry 
powder, dip them into warm butter, and grill them in front of a brisk 
fire till brown and crisp, which will take from five to eight minutes, 
turning them only once during the cooking. Put into a stewpan a tea- 
spoonful of Liebig Company's Extract of Meat, two finely-chopped 
capsicums freed from pips, one chopped eschalot, a pinch of Marshall's 
Coralline Pepper, a wineglassful of cooking sherry, and half a pint of 
good-flavoured clear brown stock ; boil this for ten minutes, then stir it 
on to one ounce of butter that has been fried without browning with a 
quarter-ounce of arrowroot and the strained juice of a lemon ; boil again, 
pass through the tammy, put the cutlets into the sauce, colour with a 
few drops of Marshall's Liquid Carmine to make it a rich but not too 
red a colour, reboil together, dish up the cutlets on a bed of Spanish 
onions that is arranged on a little puree of potato (which is forced on to 
the dish by means of a forcing bag with a plain pipe) about half an inch 
thick and two inches in width, and serve very hot for an entree for 
dinner or luncheon. 

Spanish Onions for Cutlets. Peel, wash, blanch, and rinse in 
cold water a good-sized Spanish onion, put it again into a stewpan with 
plenty of boiling water to cover, season with salt, and boil for three to 



142 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

four hours according to the size ; when tender take up, drain on a sieve, 
cut into halves, and each half into four or five pieces lengthwise into 
small portions like an orange is divided, arrange on the prepared puree 
of potato, pour over a little warm butter, season with a little coralline 
pepper and finely-chopped lean cooked ham and chopped parsley, and use 
as directed. 

Mutton Outlets a la Barigoule 
Cotelettes de Mouton d la Barigouie 

Cut some neat cutlets from the best end of a neck of mutton, season 
them with salt, mignonette pepper, chopped lean raw bacon, eschalot, 
thyme, parsley, bay leaf, and a few fresh mushrooms ; sprinkle a table- 
spoonful of salad oil into a stewpan, add to it three large peeled and 
finely-sliced onions, place the cutlets on the onion with the seasoned 
side uppermost, cover over with a buttered paper, place the cover on the 
pan and fry the contents over a moderate fire for about twenty minutes ; 
remove any fat that may rise to the surface, add three-quarters of a 
pint of Veloute sauce and a wineglassful of white wine, cover with a 
buttered paper, place the pan on the stove and simmer the contents 
for half an hour, occasionally sprinkling over the paper a little white 
wine ; then take up the cutlets, keep them warm, and add to the 
sauce half an ounce of Marshall's Creme de Riz that is mixed with 
a gill of thick cream, season with a dust of coralline pepper and two 
ounces of grated Parmesan cheese ; stir altogether over the fire till boil- 
ing, then simmer for three or four minutes and tammy it. Dish up the 
cutlets on a border of potato or farce, garnish the centre with artichoke 
bottoms (that have been heated in their liquor, strained, and cut into 
quarters and sprinkled with a little good warm glaze, a few drops of 
cooking sherry, and a little finely-chopped raw parsley), pour the sauce 
round, and serve very hot for an entree for dinner or luncheon. 

Mutton Outlets a la Oamerani 

Cotelettes de Mouton d la Camerani 

Cut some neat cutlets from the best end of a neck of mutton, free 
them from all unnecessary skin and fat, and bat them out with a cold 
wet chopping knife ; season them with Marshall's Coralline Pepper and 
salt, place them in a well-buttered saute pan and saute them over a 
quick fire for five to six minutes, then take them up on a hot plate and 
keep warm ; then add to the liquor in the pan a wineglassful of sherry, 
a teaspoonful of Bovril, a quarter-pint of oyster liquor and one finely- 



OF EXTRA RECIPES HOT ENTREES 143 

chopped eschalot, boil altogether for about eight minutes; then add 
the pulp of three raw ripe tomatoes, one ounce of butter that is mixed 
with a quarter-ounce of arrowroot, the strained juice of a lemon, and a 
pinch of castor sugar; stir again till it reboils, and for eight cutlets 
add one dozen sliced raw bearded sauce oysters and four or five cooked 
button mushrooms, just bring to the boil and use at once. Dish up the 
cutlets straight down the dish on a puree of potatoes (that has been 
forced out on to the dish by means of a forcing bag with a large rose 
pipe), pour the prepared sauce all over them, and serve very hot for an 
entree for dinner or luncheon. 

Creole Cutlets 
Gotelettes & hi Creole 

Cut the best end of a neck of mutton into neat cutlets, trim off all 
unnecessary skin and fat, bat them out with a cold wet chopping-knife 
and sprinkle them with sifted flour. Put into a stewpan the puree of 
four raw ripe tomatoes, the strained juice of a lemon, a pinch of coralline 
pepper, a teaspoonful of Bovril, a wineglassful of sherry, and then the 
cutlets; place the pan in a moderate oven and cook the contents for 
about forty minutes, occasionally basting with a little more sherry 
and keeping the cover on the pan. When cooked take up the cutlets, 
sprinkle a little warm glaze over them, and dish them on a potato- 
border with a puree of Spanish onions (vol. i. page 34) in the centre 
of the cutlets en courunne ; remove the fat from the liquor, then reboil 
with half a pint of Veloute sauce (vol. i.), add a tablespoonful of French 
capers, pour round the dish and serve at once as a dinner or luncheon 
dish. Frills may or may not be used as liked. 

Mutton Cutlets a l'Ecossaise 
Cotelettes de Mouton a VEcossaise 

Cut a piece of the best end of neck of mutton into six or seven 
cutlets, trim off all unnecessary skin and fat, and bat them out with a 
cold wet chopping-knife ; lard the lean part of the fillet with tiny 
lardons of fat raw bacon, season the cutlets with coralline pepper, salt, 
and warm butter, grill them in front of a sharp clear fire for five to- 
eight minutes, turning them only once during the cooking ; then take 
up, brush the larded side of the cutlets over with warm clear glaze, dish 
them up on a bed of plainly-boiled rice as used for curry, arranging 
them straight down the dish ; serve at once very hot with the sauce 
round the base as an entree for dinner or luncheon. 



144 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

Sauce for Cutlets A l'Ecossaise. Take a pint of reduced Espagnol 
sauce (vol. i.), one tablespoonful of tamarinds, a dessertspoonful of red 
currant jelly, a few drops of carmine, two chopped eschalots, a tea- 
spoonful of Marshall's Curry Powder, the strained juice of two lemons, 
and a dust of coralline pepper ; boil altogether for ten minutes, tammy, 
reboil, and use perfectly hot. 

Mutton Cutlets a la Lucine 
Cotelettes de Mouton a la Lucine 

Take the best end of a neck of mutton and cut from it some nice 
neat cutlets, remove all the unnecessary skin and fat from them, bat 
them out with a cold wet chopping-knife, season them with salt and 
coralline pepper, steep them in a little salad oil, and put them into a 
tewpan that is sprinkled with a little salad oil or butter ; add two sliced 
onions, one carrot, one turnip, one leek, a bunch of herbs (thyme, 
parsley, bayleaf), and a few black and white peppercorns ; put some little 
thin pieces of fat bacon that are cut the same size and shape as the 
cutlets on the top of each cutlet, place the cover on the pan and fry 
the contents over a quick fire for fifteen to twenty minutes ; then sprinkle 
over the cutlets a wineglassful of sherry, a quarter of a pint of mushroom 
gravy, and one ounce of glaze. Place the stewpan again on the stove or 
in the oven, and let the cutlets simmer for about three-quarters of an 
hour ; then take up, strain the liquor in which they were cooked, remove 
the fat from it and add to it half a pint of Lucine sauce, and keep hot 
ready for use. Brush the cutlets, over with a little warm glaze, dish 
them up on a bed of spinach that is arranged straight down an entree 
dish by means of a forcing bag and large rose pipe, and serve, with the 
sauce round the base, for an entree for dinner or luncheon. 

Outlets of Mutton a la Maintenon 

Cotelettes de Mouton d la Maintenon 

Take a piece of the best end of neck of mutton, take off all the un- 
necessary fat and cut the neck into neat cutlets ; bat them out with a 
cold wet chopping-knife, season them with a little of Marshall's Coral- 
line Pepper, salt, finely-chopped raw green parsley, bayleaf, thyme, 
eschalot, lean cooked ham or tongue, and fresh mushrooms that have 
been washed, pressed from the water, and finely chopped; then dip 
each cutlet first into whole raw beaten-up egg, then into freshly- made 
white breadcrumbs, and fry the cutlets in clean boiling fat till a nice 
golden colour. Then take them up, drain them, dish them up on a 



OF EXTRA RECIPES HOT ENTREES 145 

border of potato (vol. i.), and serve with a puree of mushrooms (vol. i.) 
in the centre, and Espagnol sauce (vol. i.) round the base. Serve for an 
entree for dinner or luncheon very hot. Lamb and venison can be pre- 
pared in the same way. 

Mutton Cutlets a la Montpensier 
Cotelettes de Mouton d la Montpensier 

Take the best end of a neck of mutton, cut it into neat cutlets, trim 
and free them from skin and all unnecessary fat, bat them out with a 
cold wet chopping-knife, place them in a stewpan on two ounces of 
sliced fat and lean raw bacon, one ounce of butter, two sliced onions, 
two tomatoes, a bunch of herbs, bayleaf, parsley, thyme, two or three 
strips of celery, one leek, one carrot, one turnip, all finely sliced, one 
sliced lemon, and a saltspoonful of Marshall's Coralline Pep] >er ; sprinkle 
on the top a little finely-shredded lean raw ham or bacon cut about an 
inch long, cover with a well-buttered paper, place the cover on the 
pan and fry the contents over a moderate fire for about fifteen minutes. 
Then take the cutlets up carefully, place them on a plate, and add to the 
liquor two wineglassfuls of sherry, one ounce of Marshall's Creme de Ptiz. 
and one pint of thin Brown sauce (vol. i.) ; bring to the boil, stirring the 
whole time ; replace the cutlets, cover with the paper again, place the cover 
on the pan and simmer the contents for about three-quarters of an hour, 
taking care that the sauce does not burn, and occasionally add a table- 
spoonful of mushroom gravy or stock ; when the cutlets are tender take 
them up with a palette knife or two forks, keep them hot over boiling 
water between two plates. Remove the herbs and fat from the top of 
the sauce and rub it through the tammy ; reboil it, and pour round the 
cutlets, after they are brushed over with a little warm glaze and sprinkled 
with a few slices of thinly-cut truffle, and dished straight down the dish 
on a puree of potatoes that has been arranged with a forcing bag and 
large rose pipe ; serve very hot for dinner or luncheon. 

Reform Cutlets of Mutton a la Francaise 

Cotelettes de Mouton llffonae d la Francaise 

Take the best end of a small neck of mutton, trim all the unnecessary 
fat from it and tie it up with a string ; jDut two ounces of butter in a 
stewpan with a sliced carrot, two sliced onions, half a sliced turnip, a 
little celery, a bunch of herbs (thyme, parsley, bayleaf), a few pepper- 
corns, and three or four cloves ; put the meat on the top of these, place 
a buttered paper over it, and let it fry for about fifteen to twenty 

L 



1 46 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

minutes with the cover on the pan ; then add about a quarter of a pint 
of stock, and put the pan into the oven, and let the meat braise for 
three-quarters of an hour, well basting it over the paper, adding more 
stock as that in the pan reduces. Take up the neck of mutton, put it 
to press, remove the string, and, when cold, cut the meat into neat 
cutlets, trimming all the fat and skin from them ; mask the top and 
the edge with a stiff white farce (vol. i.), smooth this over with a wet 
warm knife, making it quite smooth ; sprinkle over each cutlet some finely- 
chopped lean ham or tongue and truffle mixed together, and place them 
in a buttered saute pan ; then pour in at the side of the cutlets sufficient 
good boiling stock to cover them. Watch the stock reboil, then draw the 
pan to the side of the stove, cover over the pan with a cover, and let it 
remain there for about fifteen minutes ; then dish up the cutlets on a 
border of farce or potato, and serve with Reform garnish (see recipe) in 
the centre and Reform sauce round the base of the dish. 

Lamb Cutlets a rAngelique 

Cotelettes dJAgnecm d VAngeliqve 

Take the best end of a neck of lamb, trim off all unnecessary fat, and 
cut it into neat cutlets ; bat them out with a cold wet chopping-knife, 
season with coralline pepper and salt, steep them in warm butter or 
salad oil, and grill the cutlets in front of a brisk fire, turning them only 
once during the cooking ; when sufficiently cooked they should be a nice 
brown colour. Take them up, put the cutlets into a saute pan containing 




some of the sauce as below, and just bring to the boil. Take a puree of 
peas or other vegetable, and by means of a forcing bag with a rose pipe 
arrange it lengthwise on the dish on which the cutlets are to be served ; 
dish up the cutlets straight down on this, arrange on the top of each a 
teaspoonful of cooked cucumber that is cut in Julienne shreds, pour 
Angelic sauce round the base of the dish, and serve very hot for an entree 
for dinner, &c. Frills may or may not be used, as liked. 

Sauce for Cutlets a l'Angelique. Put into a stewpan two wine- 
glassfuls of sherry, a teaspoonful of Bovril, two finely-chopped washed 
mushrooms, and the essence from a bottle of truffles ; boil to half the 
quantity, tammy, rewarm in the bain-marie, and use. 



OF EXTRA RECIPES HOT ENTREES 147 

Lamb Outlets a la SufTeen 
Cotelettes d'Agneau a la Suffeen 

Cut the best end of a neck of lamb into neat cutlets, season them 
with Marshall's Coralline Pepper and salt, steep them in warm butter, fry 
them in a buttered saute pan on both sides for three to five minutes, 
when they should be a nice golden brown colour, turning the cutlets 
only once while they are cooking ; then take up the cutlets, place a 
slice of tomato, as below, on each, and on the tomato a very small 
thinly cut aud crisply fried slice of bacon ; dish up the cutlets on a 
border of potatoes or farce, pour round them some prepared Cheese sauce, 
brown with the salamander ; sprinkle a few slices of truffle here and 
there over them, and serve very hot with boiled sparghetti (see recipe) 
in the centre for an entree for dinner or luncheon. 

Tomatoes for Cutlets a la Suffeex. Cut some raw ripe tomatoes 
into slices about a quarter-inch thick, season them with a little salt, brush 
them over with a little warm glaze, sprinkle them with grated Parmesan 
cheese ; place in a well-buttered saute pan, cover with a buttered paper, 
cook in a moderate oven for about ten minutes, and use. 

Cheese Sauce for Cutlets A la Suffeex. Take four tablespoon- 
fuls of thick cream, a pinch of salt and Marshall's Coralline Pepper, three 
ounces of Gruyere or good Cheddar cheese (cut up in veiy fine slices), 
and three tablespoonfuls of thin Bechamel sauce (vol. i.) ; stir altogether 
over the fire till melted, then pour round the cutlets as directed. 

Sparghetti for Cutlets A la Suffeex. Put a quarter-pound of 
sparghetti into boiling water with a little salt, bring it to the boil, and 
simmer for about one and a quarter hours ; strain, and cut into lengths 
of about an inch, mix with a dessertspoonful of thin warm glaze, a 
dust of coralline pepper, one ounce of warm butter, and two or three 
shredded French chillies that have been freed from pips, and use. 

Mutton Outlets a la Sullivan 

Cotelettes de Mouton a la Sullivan 

Cut some neat cutlets from the best end of a neck of mutton, trim off 
all unnecessary fat and skin, lay them on a plate, steep them in warm 
butter, season with a little of Marshall's Coralline Pepper, salt, chopped 
turned Spanish olives, chopped French capers, a few chopped fresh 
mushrooms, and a little lean cooked chopped ham; place the cutlets 
in a buttered saute pan, cover with a buttered paper, and lightly 
saute the cutlets on the under side ; then pour into the pan half a pint 

L 2 



148 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

of Espagnol sauce (vol. i.), place the pan in a moderate oven and cook 
the cutlets for about twenty minutes, keeping the lid on the pan while 
they are cooking. When cooked, dish up on a border of veal or rabbit 
farce (vol. i.), place a puree of spinach (vol. i.) or any other nice vege- 
tables in the centre, pour the prepared sauce round, and serve perfectly 
hot for an entree for dinner or luncheon. 



Cutlets of Mutton a la Viennoise 
Cotelettes de Mouton d la Viennoise 

Take the best end of the neck of mutton, cut it into neat cutlets, 
neatly lard them straight down the fillets, trim the lardons, sprinkle 
with a little salad oil, put a slice of lemon on each cutlet, and cover each 
entirely with a little carrot, onion, turnip, and celery, all cut up in 
small dice shapes, and a little chopped parsley, bayleaf, and thyme ; 
arrange them in a saute pan, put the cover on, and let them remain for 
a few hours ; then when ready for cooking place the saute pan on the 
stove, and let them draw down for about fifteen minutes in the moisture 
which will be in the pan ; take up the cutlets and lightly sprinkle them 
over with little dice shapes of French gherkin, tongue, and white of 
hard-boiled egg; dish them on a puree of spinach (vol. i.) and pour the 
Viennoise sauce round the base ; these should be served very hot for a 
dinner entree. Venison cutlets are fine in this way. 



Epigrams of Mutton a la Coblentz 
3pigrammes de Mouton d la Coblentz 

Take the breast of mutton, trim from it all unnecessary fat and tie 
it up, put it in to braise as for ' Reform Cutlets,' cooking for two hours 




and a half; then take it up, untie it, remove the bones, and lay it out 
between two dishes to press, with a weight on the top one. When it is 
cold stamp it out with a small cutlet cutter ; mask the pieces with veal 



OF EXTRA RECIPES HOT ENTREES 149 

or rabbit farce (vol. i), smooth over with a hot knife ; see that the edges are 
well masked with the farce, trim them into neat cutlet shapes, and place 
them in a lightly-buttered saute pan, cover them with any nice-flavoured 
light stock and bring it to the boil, draw the pan to the side of the stove 
and poach for about ten minutes ; take up on a cloth to drain ; dish on 
a border of farce (vol. i.), with a puree of spinach (vol. i.) or any nice 
green vegetable in the centre. The border mould should be buttered 
and ornamented with truffles cut in diamonds and small rounds before 
being filled with farce. Serve a good Espagnol sauce (vol. i.) round the 
base. A little parsley stalk must be put in the end of each cutlet to carry 
the frill, as shown in the engraving. 



Mutton Kabobs a la Raipore 
Kubob de Mowton a I" Raipore 

Take some well-hung mutton, either the loin, neck, or leg, remove the 
lai and skin, and cut the meat into pieces about one and a half inches 
square ; place these on a dish and season with a sprinkling of Marshall's 
Coralline Pepper, salt, ground cinnamon, and allspice ; peel some small 
button onions, and season them similarly to the meat, allowing them to 
remain in the seasoning for at least an hour; then take some small 
wooden or ordinary wive Bkewers and arrange the meat and onions 
alternately en them, allowing about four pieces of meat and four onions 
to each person. Put into a stewpan two ounces of butter or fat and 
four peeled onions cut up in tiny dice shapes, with a bunch of herbs 
(thyme, parsley, and bayleaf) ; fry till a nice brown colour; then add a 
dessertspoonful of Marshall's Curry Powder, a saltspoonful of salt, and 
six crushed cardamoms, and mix up together ; add an ounce of Marshall's 
Creme de lliz, the strained juice of a lemon, a pint of tomato pulp, and a 
few drops of carmine ; then place the prepared kabobs in the stewpan, 
cover it down and let the contents simmer on the side of the stove for 
about one hour ; when cooked remove the kabobs, skim off any fat 
from the sauce, and reduce to quite a thick consistency; arrange a pile 
of Pilau rice (vol. i. page 297) on a hot dish, and place the kabobs 
upon it ; arrange here and there little thinly-cut shreds of red and green 
chillies ; pour the sauce round the rice, and serve hot. 

The ordinary skewers can, if liked, be replaced by silver or plated 
skewers when the meat is cooked. 

Beef or veal can be used in the same manner as mutton, and cooked 
meat instead of fresh can be employed. 



150 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

Noisettes of Mutton a la Parisieime 

Noisettes de Mouton d la Parisienne 

Eemove the lean part from the best end of a neck of mutton, and 
cut it into neat slices about half an inch thick, bat these out with a cold 
wet chopping-knife, trim them into neat fillets, season them with coralline 
pepper, salt, fresh mushrooms, parsley, and eschalot, that have all been 




chopped up fine ; place them on a well-buttered saute pan and saute 
them over a quick fire on both sides for three or four minutes ; then take 
up and dish the fillets on a crouton of fried bread on which is arranged 
some cooked sliced tomato ; pour a good-flavoured Supreme sauce (vol. i.) 
round the dish, sprinkle here and there on the sauce a little warm glaze, 
and serve, whilst quite hot, for an entree for dinner or luncheon. 



Fritot of Sheep's Feet a la Beige 
Fritot de Pieds de Mouton a la Beige 

Take some sheep's feet and cleanse them thoroughly, put them into 
a stewpan with cold water and a little salt, bring to the boil, then strain, 
rinse the feet in cold water and put them into another stewpan ; cover 
with fresh cold water, add a few cleansed vegetables, such as onion, 
turnip, celery, leek, carrot, and herbs (thyme, parsley, and bayleaf), a 
little salt, and six or eight peppercorns ; bring to the boil, skim, and 
then simmer gently on the side of the stove for two and a half to three 
hours. Take up the feet and let them slightly cool ; remove all the bones, 
and season the inside of the feet with chopped parsley, thyme, bayleaf, 
eschalot, and mignonette pepper, and mask this with a layer of rabbit or 
veal farce, prepared as below ; then roll up the feet into their natural 
shape, tie them up with a piece of tape, rub them over with a little 
butter, and place them in a saute pan with about a quarter of a pint of 
boiling stock ; put a cover over and stand them in a moderate oven to 
cook slowly for about fifteen to twenty minutes, then remove from the 
oven and put aside till cold. When firm remove the tape, and cut the 
feet crosswise into escalopes about a quarter of an inch thick ; sprinkle 



OF EXTRA RECIPES HOT ES TREES 151 

these with a little salad oil and chopped lean ham or tongue, dip each 
into frying batter (vol. i.), and fry in clean boiling fat for six to eight 
minutes, when they should be a pretty fawn colour and the batter quite 
crisp ; dish up, en couronne, on a border of puree of spinach or fried 
parsley (vol. i.), and pour thin Soubise sauce (vol. i.) round the base. 
Serve hot for an entree for dinner or luncheon. 

Farce for Sheep's Feet a la Belge. - -Take, for six to eight feet, 
six ounces of rabbit or lean veal, pound it till smooth, rub it through 
a wire sieve, and mix it with one and a half ounces of beef suet, one 
ounce of freshly-made white breadcrumbs, a little salt and Marshall's 
Coralline Pepper, and one whole and one yolk of raw egg. Mix up well 
together, and then use. 

Fillets of Veal a la St. Lawrence 
Filets de Venn d la St. Lawrence 

Take a piece of lean fillet of veal, and cut it in little round fillets 
about a quarter of an inch thick ; bat these out with a cold wet knife, 
then lard the centres of each in two rows with little strips of French 
gherkins and larding bacon, and trim these lardons with the scissors. 
Put into a stewpan two ounces of butter, with a few slices of carrot, 
onion, turnip, and celery, a bunch of herbs (such as thyme, parsley, and 
bayleaf), four peppercorns, and two cloves ; place the fillets on the top 
of these vegetables, put a buttered paper over them, cover down the pan 




with the lid, and fry the contents for fifteen minutes ; then add two wine- 
glassfuls of white wine and half an ounce of glaze, return the pan to the 
stove and let the fillets braise for an hour, during which time keep them 
well basted over the paper, and occasionally add a little stock as that in 
the pan reduces. When the fillets are cooked take them up, sprinkle 
them with a little grated Parmesan cheese, then brush over with a little 
warm glaze and put on a tin in a quick oven to brown. Dish up as 
in engraving on a border of potatoes (vol. i.), arrange some slices of 
cooked cucumber on the top of the fillets, garnish the centre of the dish 
with a Potato puree (vol. i. page 35), using a forcing bag with a large 



152 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

rose pipe for the purpose; pour Supreme sauce (vol. i.) round the base 
of the dish, and serve for an entree for dinner or luncheon. The vege- 
tables remaining from the braise can be used up in the stock-pot. 

Cucumber for Fillets of Yeal a la St. Lawrence. Cut the 
cucumber in slices about a quarter-inch thick and stamp them out in 
the form of rings ; put these into a stewpan with cold water, bring this 
to the boil and allow the cucumber to simmer till tender; take them up, 
rinse with cold water, and when cold fill the hollows of the rings with 
a little chicken or veal farce as below, and use. 

Farce for Fillets of Yeal a la St. Lawrence. Pound four 
ounces of lean veal till smooth ; remove this from the mortar and pound 
four ounces of Panard (vol. i.), mix into this the pounded veal, two whole 
raw eggs, a little salt and coralline pepper, pass through a wire sieve ; 
divide into two parts, colour one with a few drops of Marshall's Liquid 
Carmine, and leave the other plain ; put into separate small bags with 
plain pipes, and use alternately. 

Tendons in Cases a PEstragon 
Tendons en Caissea & VEstragon 

Take, for ten persons, two calf's feet, wash them well, and put them 
in a cloth to cook in plenty of water or light stock with two or three 
onions, a good bunch of herbs, a few black and white peppercorns, and a 
little celery ; skim the stock well when it boils, and let it simmer gently 
for three or four hours or longer if the tendons are not done. When 
cooked take up, remove the cloth, split open the feet, cut the tendons in 
little pieces, mix Avith them a little finely-chopped tarragon and chervil, 
and enough good Yeloute sauce to moisten (vol. i.) ; put them in oiled 
paper cases, allowing one to each person, mask over the top with Cream 
sauce (vol. i.) ; serve with little rings of fried bread (that are stamped 
out about the size of a shilling and fried a pale golden colour) all round 
the edge of the cases, dish up on a hot dish on a paper, and serve at 
once for an entree for dinner. The liquor and remainder of the feet 
can be used up in other ways, for soup, &c. 

Escalopes of Calf's Head a la Tuileries 

Escalopes de Tete de Veau a la Tuileries 

Take the whole or half of a cleansed calf's head, put it in a pan 
with plenty of cold water seasoned well with salt, let it remain in this 
for twenty-four hours, during which time continually change the water 



OF EXTRA RECIPES HOT ENTREES 153 

and add more salt, then remove the brains and tie up the head in a clean 
cloth ; put it into a stewpan with enough, cold water to well cover it, 
bring to the boil, then take up, and well wash it in cold water ; return it 
to the stewpan, cover with more water, add a pinch of salt, and then 
allow the head to simmer gently for three and a half to four hours. 
When cooked, take up the head, remove it from the cloth, then when 
somewhat cool take off all the glutinous part, place it in a basin of 
warm water, and with a small pointed knife carefully peel off the top 
skin so as to leave transparent the parts to be used ; put the meat to 
press between two plates till cold, then cut it into pieces about two 
inches square or stamp it out with a plain round cutter ; place these 
pieces in a saute pan, pour over them sufficient of the sauce prepared 
as below to cover them, bring to the boil and let it simmer for a quarter 
of an hour. Arrange a border of veal farce on an entree dish, and dish 
up the pieces of head en eouronne, garnish the centre with truffles or 
Financiere or button mushrooms, or any nice cooked vegetables, and serve 
the sauce round the dish. The meaty part of the head can be made 
into veal brawn with the odd trimmings. 

Sauce. Put into a stewpan four bayleaves, a sprig of thyme, a pinch 
of mignonette pepper, a small sprig of marjoram and basil, three wine- 
glassfuls of sherry, a teaspoonful of Liebig Company's Extract of Meat, 
two fresh washed mushrooms, a wineglassful of white wine, and one 
pint of good flavoured consomme ; boil these together for about fifteen 
minutes, then add to it one and a half ounces of the best arrowroot that 
is mixed with a little of the same consomme, stir together till boiling, 
keeping skimmed, then carefully wring through the tammy, and use. 

Sweetbread a la Belgrave 
/('/.- ,-ir Veau '' la Belgra/ve 

Take a good fresh sweetbread, put it in cold water with a pinch of 
salt, and bring gently to the boil ; rinse in cold water and put it to press 
between two plates till cold ; then make incisions by means of a small 
pointed knife, and in these place alternately little pieces of cooked 
tongue and blanched pistachio nuts and truffle, cutting the latter and 
tongue about the same size as the pistachio nuts ; place a piece of slitted 
fat bacon (sufficient to cover) on it, wrap it in a well-buttered paper, tie 
it up and place it in a buttered stewpan, add a few slices of cleaned 
carrot, onion, celery, a bunch of herbs (thyme, parsley, bayleaf), four or 
five peppercorns and two or three cloves ; place the cover on and fry on 
the side of the stove for fifteen to twenty minutes ; then add about 



154 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

a quarter-pint of light stock, either from veal, rabbit, or chicken, and put 
to cook in the oven for one Vour, taking care to baste it occasionally and 
adding a little more stock as that in the pan reduces. When ready to 
dish up, remove the sweetbread from the stewpan, take off the paper and 
dish up on a puree of chestnuts (vol. i. page 34) or spinach, or any other 
nice vegetables, which should be forced out from a bag with a large rose 
pipe so as to form a pretty border to rest each sweetbread on, and serve 
with Veloute sauce (vol. i.) round the dish. A few drops of warm glaze 
dropped lightly on the sauce will greatly improve the flavour and 
appearance. Serve for a hot entree for dinner or luncheon. 



Sweetbread a la Financiere 
Bis de Veau d la Financiere 

Blanch some fresh sweetbreads, as in recipe ' Sweetbread a la Bel- 
grave,' and when cold lard them with lardons of fat bacon, as in 
vol. i. (page 112); braise them as in above-named recipe, and when 
cooked brush the sweetbreads over lightly with warm glaze, and replace 




in the oven to crisp the bacon. Dish up on croutons of fried bread, as 
shown in the design, and garnish with prepared Financiere (that has been 
made hot by standing the bottle in the bain-marie), and arrange on 
hatelet skewers ; serve with a good Financiere sauce (see recipe) round 
the base, and use for a dinner party entree. 



Sweetbread a rimperatrice 
Bis de Veau d Vlmperatrice 

Take a large sweetbread or two-moderate sized ones, put them into 
cold water with a little salt, bring to the boil, then rinse and put to 
press till cold. Take some larding bacon and lard the top, trim the 
lardons with a pair of scissors, place the sweetbread in a buttered paper 
and tie it up ; put it into a buttered stewpan with one sliced onion, one 



OF EXTRA KEOIPES HOT ENTREES 155 

carrot, a few slices of turnip, a bunch of herbs (bayleaf, thyme, and 
parsley), and about one dozen peppercorns ; fry for fifteen minutes with 
the pan covered down ; then add about a quarter of a pint of good stock, 
place in a moderate oven, and braise for about one hour, during which 
time keep basted, frequently adding more stock as that in the pan 
reduces. When cooked take up, remove the paper, place the sweetbread 
on a baking-tin, and brush it over the top with a little warm glaze; put 




it into the oven again for about ten to fifteen minutes; then take up and 
brush over again with a little thin glaze, and arrange on a border 
prepared as below and shown in picture, and serve a good Supreme 
sauce (vol. i.) round the dish, and macaroni prepared as below in the 
centre space of the border and at each corner of the dish ; serve hot for 
an entree for a dinner party. 

Macaroni for Sweetbread A l'Lmpkratrice. Put some macaroni 
to cook in boiling water seasoned with a little salt for half an hour, then 
strain it and cut it into lengths of about half an inch, sprinkle with a 
little grated Parmesan cheese and moisten with a little thick cream, 
season with a dust of coralline pepper, make hot in the bain-marie, and 
use. 

Border for Sweetbread a l'Imperatrice. Take a Breton border 
mould, butter it, and then line it entirely with rings of plainly boiled 
macaroni made by cutting it crosswise about one-eighth of an inch thick, 
then by means of a forcing bag and large plain pipe fill it up with the 
farce ; knock the mould down on the table to allow the farce to sink 
well into the mould, place it in a stewpan on a fold of paper, cover it 
with boiling water, place it over the fire, watch the contents come to the 
boil, then draw aside and poach for fifteen minutes ; then turn out, and 
use. Farce for Border. Pound half a pound of lean cooked ham till 
smooth ; then pound six ounces of Panard with one large tablespoonful 
of Brown sauce, a dust of coralline pepper, a few drops of carmine, one 
ounce of butter, and one ounce of grated Parmesan cheese ; add the ham, 
mix with three whole eggs and a tablespoonful of thick cream, rub 
through a fine wire sieve, and use. 



156 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

Escalopes of Sweetbread a la Helene 
Escalopes de Ris de Veau d la Ilelene 

Take a calf's sweetbread and put it in cold water with a pinch of 
salt ; let it come to the boil, wash it in cold water, and put it to press ; 
wrap it in a well-buttered paper, with a slice or two of fat bacon. Put 
into a stewpan about two ounces of butter, a sliced onion, a small sliced 
carrot, a little celery, and a bunch of herbs, such as thyme, bayleaf, 
parsley, and a few peppercorns ; place the sweetbread on this, and let it 
fry gently for about fifteen minutes ; then add about a quarter-pint of 
light stock, put the pan in the oven, braise the sweetbread for about 
three-quarters of an hour, keeping it well basted, and adding more 
stock as required. When cooked, take up the sweetbread, remove the 
paper, and cut it up in slices, dish up en coitronne on a border of potato 
(vol. i.), pour l'Ambassade sauce (see recipe) over, and garnish with a 
puree of haricot beans (see recipe) in the centre, and put a few drops 
of warm glaze on each fillet just before serving. 



Escalopes of Sweetbread a la Lombarde 
EsealojK's de Ris de Veav a la Lombarde 

Take a cold braised sweetbread and when cooked cut it in slices 
about a quarter of an inch thick, and stamp out in rounds about one 
and a half inches in diameter with a plain round cutter ; cover the top 
side of each escalope with a layer of the ragout prepared as below 
about one-eighth of an inch thick, let this set, and then mask over with 
Blanquette sauce (vol. i.). When this is set dip the escalopes into fine 




flour, then into whole beaten-up egg, and then into freshly-made white 
breadcrumbs ; ornament the masked side with cut truffle, as in engrav- 
ing, and fry in clean boiling fat till a pretty golden colour. Then dish up 
on a border of potatoes (vol. i.), garnish the centre with a puree of 
mushrooms (vol. i.), and serve Supreme sauce (vol. i.) round the dish r 
for an entree for dinner. 



OF EXTRA RECIPES HOT ENTREES 157 

Ragout for Escalopes of Sweetbread a la Lombarde. Put four 
tablespponfuls of thick Tomato sauce (vol. i.) into a stewpan with one 
finely-chopped eschalot and half an ounce of glaze, reduce to half the 
quantity ; then add one chopped truffle, two button mushrooms, and two 
tablespoonfuls of blanched calf's brains that have been plainly cooked 
and cut up in little square pieces ; put this aside on ice or in a cool 
place to set, then use. 

Escalopes of Sweetbread a la Munich 
Escalopes de Rw de Veau d la Munich 

Blanch a nice white throat sweetbread by putting it in enough cold 
water to cover it with a pinch of salt, let it come to the boil, then strain 
it and wash it in cold water, and put it to press between two plates ; 
when it is cold cut it into escalopes about half an inch thick, and lard 
each alternately with fat bacon and truffle ; trim the lardons evenly, then 
wrap each escalope in a little square piece of buttered paper. Put in a 
stewpan two ounces of butter and a few slices of carrot, onion, and 
turnip, a little celery, four or five peppercorns, a small bunch of herbs 
(parsley, thyme, and bayleaf), place the escalopes on the vegetables, put 



the cover on the pan, and fry for fifteen to twenty minutes ; then add a 
quarter of a pint of stock, and let the escalopes braise for three-quarters 
of an hour, basting them occasionally whilst cooking ; take them up, 
remove the papers, glaze them over lightly, and sprinkle them with a 
very little finely-chopped raw green parsley ; dish them up on a border 
of potatoes (vol. i.) with a slice of tomato between each (see recipe, 
' Tomatoes for Garnishing ' ), or a round of nice black truffle. Garnish 
the centre with a pile of grated cocoanut, or boiled rice that has a little 
warm butter poured over it, and a little coralline pepper that has been 
warmed between two plates over boiling water, and serve Cocoanut 
sauce round the base. 

Cocoanut Sauce for Escalopes of Sweetbread a la Munich. 
Fry lightly together in a stewpan two ounces of fine flour and two 



158 MBS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

ounces of butter, then mix in three-quarters of a pint of veal, rabbit, 
or chicken stock, stir till it boils ; add a quarter of a good-sized grated 
cocoanut, and a gill of cream ; boil together for about ten minutes, add a 
pinch of salt, the strained juice of a lemon, tammy, and use while hot. 



Little Cases of Sweetbread a la St. Clair 
Petites Caisses de Ris de Veau d la St. Clair 

Warm the dariol moulds and mask them over with batter pre- 
pared as in vol. i. (page 123), and fry in clean boiling fat till a nice 
golden colour, repeating this process until sufficient cases are made ; 



then fill them with the ragout prepared as below, place a few little shreds 
of truffle and cucumber peas (see recipe) on each, arrange the cases 
on a hot dish on a paper, and serve while quite hot for an entree for 
dinner. These cases can always be kept ready for use to warm up at 
any time. 

Ragout for Cases of Sweetbread a la St. Clair. Cut up a 
braised sweetbread (vol. i. page 110) into small dice shapes, mix with 
a few sliced cooked button mushrooms and sufficient Veloute sauce 
(vol. i.) to make the mixture creamy, then make hot in the bain-marie 
and use. 

Timbal of Sweetbread a la Czarina 
Timbale de Ris de Veau d la Czarina 

Prepare a pair of calf's sweetbreads (vol. i. page 110), and when cool 
cut one of them in slices, and stamp out in rounds about the size of a 
sixpenny piece ; also cut out similar-sized rounds of button mushrooms 
and truffles. Well butter and line with a buttered paper a Charlotte 
mould, and arrange these rounds alternately all over ; then cover the 
garnish with a layer of veal farce (vol. i.) about one and a half inches 
thick, using a forcing bag and plain pipe for it ; smooth this over with 
a wet hot spoon, and fill up the centre of the mould with a ragout as 



OF EXTRA RECIPES- HOT ENTREES 159 

below, and cover the top over with a layer of farce about one inch thick ; 
then place the mould in a stewpan containing boiling water, which should 




come about half-way up the mould. Watch it reboil, and steam for one 
hour, turn out and garnish with hot button mushrooms and truffles, 
pour Espagnol sauce (vol. i.) round the base, and serve for a hot entree. 
Ragout for Timbal of Sweetbread a la Czarina. Cut up the 
trimmings from the sweetbread, truffle, and mushroom into little square 
pieces, and put them into a sauce prepared as follows : Put into a stew- 
pan four tablespoonfuls of very thick Tomato sauce (vol. i.), half a wine- 
glassful of sherry, one ounce of glaze, and one eschalot chopped fine ; 
boil down to half the quantity, keeping it skimmed while boiling, add 
the trimmings, and put away on ice till cold and quite set, then use. 



Kidneys a la Berlin 
Rognons d la Berlin 

Take some nice fresh sheep's kidneys, remove the skin and core, cut 
them in thin slices, and put them in a well-buttered saute pan ; fry them 
over a quick fire for about three or four minutes ; then strain the kidneys- 
from the gravy and mix them with some sauce prepared as below, and 
some little button quenelles prepared as below ; place this mixture in 
a bain-marie to get well heated, then turn it out on to a hot entree 
dish on a border of Red Rice (see recipe), and garnish here and there 
with some tiny button mushrooms. Serve as an entree for dinner or 
luncheon while quite hot. 

Sauce for Kidneys A la Berlix. Take half a pint of clear strong 
stock made from poultry bones and a little lean ham for flavouring, one 
ounce of clear light glaze, and two finely-chopped eschalots ; boil these 
for about ten minutes, during which time keep the liquor skimmed - r 
mix with it one ounce of the best arrowroot and a wineglassful of sherry, 
and stir it into the sauce ; let it simmer again for five minutes, then 
wring it through the tammy, reboil, and use. 



160 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

Button Quexelles. Pound six ounces of raw chicken, veal, or 
rabbit till quite smooth, then mix with it three ounces of pounded 
panard, one ounce of butter, a pinch of salt, a tiny pinch of cayenne, 
and one tablespoonful of thick cream, and two whole and one raw yolks 
of egg ; mix all thoroughly well together, and then pass the mixture 
through a wire sieve ; put it into a forcing bag with a medium-sized 
plain pipe, force it on to a lightly-buttered saute pan in the form of 
Spanish nuts. Pour over these some boiling water, place the pan on 
the stove, watch the water reboil, then draw the pan aside, re-cover, and 
let the quenelles poach for about ten minutes. When ready take up 
carefully with a slice on a sieve to drain, then use. 

Kidneys a la St. George 
Rognons a la St. George 

Take some mutton kidneys, allowing one to each person, skin them 
and remove the cores, cut them in neat slices about one-eighth of an 
inch thick, season them with pepper and salt, and put, say, four kidneys 
so prepared into a saute pan with one and a half ounces of hot butter 
and saute them very quickly over a brisk fire for three or four minutes^ 
then drain them in a strainer. Clean out the saute pan in which they 
have been cooked, and put in it half a pint of good thick boiling 
Espagnol sauce (vol. i.), to which add the kidneys and two or three 
finely-sliced truffles and one and a half dozen raw bearded oysters 
(slicing the large ones into two pieces) ; just allow the sauce to get very 
hot again in the bain-marie, but not to boil, and add a very tiny dust 
of Marshall's Coralline Pepper. Dish up the kidneys in a border of 
little round croutons of bread which have been fried in clean boiling fat 
or clarified butter till a pretty golden colour, and with slices of tomatoes 
(see recipe, ' Tomatoes for Garnishing ' ). Serve for dinner or luncheon 
entree. 

Kidneys a la Louisville 

Rognons d la Louisville 

Eemove the skin and core from some mutton kidneys ; split them 
open and season them with a little salt and coralline pepper and finely- 
chopped eschalot ; steep them in warm butter, then dip each into freshly - 
made white breadcrumbs, pass a skewer through the kidneys to keep 
them open (vol. i. page 282), and grill or broil them for eight to ten 
minutes, turning only once while cooking. When cooked take up and 
arrange each kidney on a slice of tomato (see recipe, ' Tomatoes for 



OF EXTRA RECIPES HOT ENTREES 161 

Garnishing ') ; place a raw bearded oyster in the centre of the kidney ; 
cover this by means of a bag and plain pipe with a puree of mushrooms, 




sprinkle a few drops of glaze over, and serve for a breakfast or luncheon 
dish, or as an entree for dinner, using while quite hot. 

Puree of Mushrooms for Kidneys A la Louisville. Take for 
six kidneys five or six well-washed fresh mushrooms pressed from the 
water, chop them fine, and put into a stewpan with one ounce of butter. 
a little salt and pepper, and one small chopped eschalot ; put on the 
stove and draw down gently till into a pulp ; theu add one ounce of fresh 
white breadcrumbs, the strained liquor from the oysters, and one ounce 
of lean cooked ham or tongue ; stir till reboiling, then add a little finely- 
chopped raw green parsley, and use. 

Chicken a la Chasseur 

Poulet d In Chasseur 

Pick and singe a small chickeu, and split it in halves, or, if a large 
fowl is used, it may be cut up in joints ; season well with mignonette 
pepper and salt, finely-chopped eschalot, chopped parsley, bayleaf, 
and thyme, then add some salad oil, and let the chicken lie in this for 
an hour or two before cooking ; then roll the joints in browned bread- 
crumbs, and grill or broil or cook on a greased tin in the oven for about 
fifteen to twenty minutes. Dish up the bird (and if in joints pile them 
up), and serve with Chasseur sauce (vol. i. page 13) round for an entree 
for dinner, luncheon, or second course. Any other birds or rabbits can 
be prepared in a similar manner. 

Sauted Chicken a la Dupre 
Poulet Saute a la Dupre 

Take a picked and cleansed chicken, cut it up into neat joints, and 
season with salt and coralline pepper ; put them in a stewpan with a 

M 



162 



MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 



tablespoonful of salad oil, four onions, peeled and cut into fine slices, a 
bunch of herbs (bayleaf, thyme, and parsley), four sliced tomatoes, two 
chopped capsicums ; fry together for about twenty minutes, then add 
one ounce of glaze, two ounces of raw lean bacon sliced, two ounces of 
Marshall's Creme de Riz, enough carmine to make it a nice salmon 
colour, a quarter-pint of mushroom liquor, one wineglassful of sherry, 




six pounded sauce oysters and their liquor, and one pint of Brown 
sauce (vol. i.) ; place on the stove and simmer for about forty minutes, 
removing any fat that may rise during the cooking. Then remove the 
joints, and rub the contents of the pan through a clean tammy cloth ; 
then add the sauce to the joints in a clean stewpan and reboil ; dish up 
in a pile, and garnish with boiled sparghetti (see recipe) and fried croutons, 
as shown in the design. Serve as a hot entree for dinner or luncheon. 

CroCtons. Take some stale tin bread and cut it into slices about a 
quarter of an inch thick ; then stamp from it some hollow kite-shaped 
pieces, by means of two heart-shaped cutters of different sizes, and fry 
in clean boiling fat till a pale golden colour ; take them up and drain, 
and brush over one side slightly with raw white of egg, and sprinkle one 
half with finely-chopped raw green parsley, and the other with grated 
Parmesan cheese. 

Chicken a la Minute 
Poulet a la Minute 

Pick, singe, and cleanse a chicken, and cut it up into neat joints, 
season with a little pepper, salt, chopped bayleaf, thyme, parsley, and 
eschalot, and one or two well-washed and chopped mushrooms, and fry 
altogether with the chicken in a well-buttered saute pan for ten to 
fifteen minutes, occasionally turning it over. Sprinkle into the pan one 
and a half ounces of sifted flour, add a wineglassful of sherry, three-quarters 
of a pint of good stock, and the juice of a lemon ; boil for about fifteen 
minutes, and dish up the joints in a pile on a hot dish ; pour the sauce 
all over the joints of chicken, and garnish the dish with crisply fried 
croutons of bread arranged as a border. Serve for an entree for dinner 
or luncheon. 



OF EXTRA RECIPES HOT ENTREES 16o 

Sauce for Chicken a la Minute. Mix three raw yolks of eggs 
in a basin with three tablespoonfuls of stock ; stir quickly into the 
liquor in which the chicken was cooked till it thickens, but do not let 
it boil ; pour over the chicken, and serve. 

Chicken a la Rubanee 
Poidet d la Rubanee 

Take a roast fowl, cut it up into neat pieces, remove the skin from it, 
then put it into a saute pan ; cover it over with Rubanee sauce, and 
simmer for about fifteen minutes ; then dish up in a pile, pour the 




remaining sauce over, and garnish here and there with prettily ctrt 
croutons. Serve for an entree for dinner or luncheon. Pheasant or 
partridge can be used in the same way, and any cold bird can be used 
up similarly. 

Chicken a la Virginie 
Poulet a la Virginie 

Pick, singe, and cleanse a nice young chicken and cut it into neat 
joints, season with a dust of Marshall's Coralline PejDper, salt, and a 
little white pepper ; put the joints into a stewpan with a bunch of herbs 
(thyme, bayleaf, parsley) and six sliced onions, and fry altogether for 
about twenty minutes, stirring occasionally while frying. Then mix with 
it one and a half ounces of Creme de Riz, a teaspoonful of chutney, a 
teaspoonful of curry powder, one and a half pints of new milk or stock, 
four finely-chopped fresh mushrooms, a quarter-pint of mushroom 
liquor, a quarter-pint of oyster liquor, and twelve pounded raw sauce 
oysters ; bring altogether to the boil, then place the cover on the pan and 
let the contents cook slowly on the side of the stove for about forty 
minutes ; then mix with it an ounce of Creme de Riz that has been mixed 
with a tablespoon f ill of lemon juice. When cooked remove the joints, put 
them aside in a warm place, colour the sauce with eight or ten drops of 
Marshall's Liquid Carmine, rub altogether through the tammy, mix with 

M 2 



164 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

it a quarter-pint of cream, and make quite hot in the bain-marie. Dish 
up the chicken in a pile on a hot dish, pour the sauce over, garnish 
round the dish with the prepared croutons in the form of a border, and 
serve for an entree for dinner or luncheon. 

Croutons for Chicken A la Virginie. Cut some stale bread in 
slices about a quarter-inch thick, and then with one large and one small 
heart-shape cutter stamp out into about two dozen heart shapes. Fry 
them in clean boiling fat till a nice golden colour, drain them on a 
pastry rack, which will prevent them from tasting greasy, brush over 
one side of each with a little raw white of egg, and mask some with 
chopped raw green parsley, some with chopped lean cooked ham, and 
some with finely-chopped truffle ; dish up alternately. 



Outlets of Chicken a la Nimoise 
Gotelettes de Volaille d la Nimoise 

Butter some small cutlet-moulds and arrange in the centre of each 
a star of finely-cut truffle, and at the side, from the top to the bottom, 
place one row of cooked green peas and some little diamond-cut shapes 
of cooked tongue, setting them with cream of chicken as below ; nearly 
fill the moulds with this mixture, make a well in the centre of it, and 
place inside a raw bearded oyster (that has been seasoned with lemon 
juice) and about a saltspoonful of Mushroom puree (vol. i. page 35) ; 




cover over with more of the farce, and place the moulds in a saute 
pan on a fold of paper. Pour in the pan stock or water to three parts 
the depth of the moulds, cover over with a buttered paper and cook 
them in a moderate oven for about fifteen minutes ; then take them up, 
turn out the cutlets, and dish them on a border of potato, as in the 
engraving, and serve with Chestnut puree (vol. i. page 34) or any other 
nicely cooked vegetables in the centre, and the sauce round the base. 
Use for a dinner entree and serve hot. 

Cream of Chicken for Cutlets A la NImoise. Take twelve 



OF EXTRA RECIPES HOT ENTREES 165 

ouDces of raw chicken, six bearded sauce oysters, half a pound of 
Panard (vol. i.), one large tablespoonful of thick Bechamel sauce (vol. i.), 
one ounce of butter, a little salt and cayenne pepper, and three whole 
eggs; pound the chicken till smooth, then pound the other ingredients, 
add the eggs, and work all together into a paste ; add a large table- 
spoonful of cream, rub through a wire sieve, and use. Enough for twelve 
cutlets. 

Sauce foe Cutlets a la Nimoise. Take the bones from the 
chicken, the beards and liquor from the oysters, six peppercorns, a gill 
of white wine, a wineglassful of sherry, two or three sliced white mush- 
rooms, a little bacon bone, and a bunch of herbs ; cover with water, 
and bring to the boil, add a little salt, skim it, and slowly boil for 
about an hour ; then mix one pint of it with one and a half ounces of 
arrowroot that has been mixed with two ounces of butter, a gill of 
cream, and the juice of a lemon ; reboil, tammy, and use. 



Cutlets of Chicken. Sauce Rubanee 

Coielellex, <le Volatile. Smice Rubanee 

Take a picked and cleansed chicken, remove the breast fillets, and 
set aside (to be used up for another entree, such as Supremes) ; remove 
the remaining meat from the carcase, free it from skin, and pound it till 
smooth. Take half a pound of it and mix with it a quarter-pound ot 
cooked ham, one ounce of good butter, six raw bearded sauce oysters, a 
dust of coralline pepper and salt, a quarter-pint of thick Bechamel 
sauce (vol. i.), and three ounces of Panard (vol. i.) ; mix with two and a 
half whole raw eggs, and two tablespoonfuls of thick cream ; rub through 
a wire sieve, mix with a large finely-chopped truffle, or a teaspoonful of 
finely-chopped raw parsley ; mix up together and put into a forcing bag 
with a large plain pipe, force it out into some little buttered cutlet 
moulds that are sprinkled over with a little finely-chopped truffle, 
knock the moulds on the table, smooth them over with a hot wet knife, 
place them in a saute pan, cover over with a buttered paper, pour in the 
saute pan a little boiling water, just sufficient to cover the bottom, 
place the pan in a moderate oven, aud cook the cutlets for about fifteen 
minutes. When firm, take up, arrange them on a border of potato, fill up 
the centre with cooked peas or beans (that have been mixed with a little 
butter and a pinch of castor sugar), pour Eubanee sauce over the cutlets, 
and serve for an entree for dinner. The quantities given are sufficient 
for six to eight people. 



166 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 



Chicken Cutlets a la Heine 
Cotelettes de Volatile a la Reine 

Butter some cutlet moulds and arrange in them alternate layers of 
cooked breast of chicken and tongue (or ham), stamping out the pieces 
with a cutter the same shape and size as the mould ; fill up the moulds 
with a cream of chicken, as below; place them on a baking-tin, surround 
them with enough water to cover the bottoms, place a buttered paper 
on the top, and cook in a moderate oven for fifteen minutes ; then turn 




out the cutlets on a border of farce or potato (vol. i.), and mask them 
with Supreme sauce (vol. i.) ; then garnish each cutlet with a piece of 
stamped-out truffle in any pretty design, serve peas in the centre, and 
with a puree of cooked lean ham or tongue form a little rose on the top 
of each cutlet, using a forcing bag with a small rose pipe for it. Pour 
Supreme or Veloute sauce round the dish, and use as a dinner party 
entree. 

Chicken Cream for Chicken Cutlets A la Reine. Take the meat 
from the legs of the fowl, remove the skin and bone and pound till 
smooth, then mix with it one large tablespoonful of thick Bechamel 
sauce (vol. i.) and three raw whites of egg, season with salt and pepper 
and one tablespoonful of cream ; rub through a fine wire sieve, add a 
wineglass of sheriy, and use. 

Chicken for Chicken Cutlets a la Reine. Remove the breast 
fillets from a fowl, freeing it from skin, place them on a buttered baking- 
tin, sprinkle with lemon-juice and salt ; put a buttered paper on the top 
and cook in a moderate oven for ten to twelve minutes ; put in press till 
cold and then cut in very thin slices, and stamp out as above. 

Tongue Puree for Cutlets a la Reine. Pound a quarter-pound 
of cooked tongue or ham till smooth, with a tablespoonful of thick 
Bechamel sauce (vol. i.), a dust of coralline pepper, two hard-boiled 
yolks of egg, a few drops of carcnine ; then rub through a sieve and 
use. 



OF EXTRA RECIPES HOT ENTREES 167 



Fillets of Chicken a la Marechal 
Filets de Volatile a la Marechal 

Remove the breast fillets from a nice fat fowl, doing this carefully so 
as not to split the flesh ; lay the fillets out on the table and cut length- 
wise from them some nice pieces, about four being taken from each 
breast of the fowl ; bat each portion out with a cold wetted chopping- 
knife, place them in a buttered saute pan, put a very slight seasoning of 
salt and white pepper on each with a sprinkling of strained lemon juice, 
place a buttered paper on the fillets and put them to cook in a moderate 
oven for about five minutes ; then remove them, pub them to press 
between two dishes till quite cold. Remove the meat from the leg*, free 
it from sinews and skin, and to each half-pound of the meat take four 
ounces of Panard (vol. i.), one ounce of butter, and a little salt and 
white pepper ; mix these together into a smooth paste, add to it two 
large whole eggs, and rub all through a fine wire sieve. Put this farce 
into a forcing bag with a plain pipe and with it mask over the top side 
of the fillets about a quarter of an inch thick ; smooth the tops and 
edges of the farce with a hot wet knife, and form the fillets into nice 
neat shapes ; place these in a buttered saute pan, put a buttered paper 
over and sprinkle in the pan about a tablespoonful of sherry ; put them 
into the oven again for about fifteen minutes, when the farce should feel 
quite firm to the touch. Dish up the fillets en couronne on a border of 
farce or potato, fill up the centre with truffles or a ragout of truffle and 
button mushrooms, and serve with Marechal sauce (see recipe below) or 
Supreme sauce (vol. i.) over the fillets for a hot entree for a dinner 
party. 

Sauce for Fillets of Chicken a la Marechal. Take the cleansed 
carcase of the fowl, chop it up finely, put it into a stewpan with one 
large onion cut into dice shapes, two bayleaves, a sprig of thyme, two 
washed and dried fresh mushrooms, a pinch of mignonette pepper, one 
ounce of lean cooked ham or raw bacon, and one ounce of butter ; cover 
the pan and put it on the stove. Fry the contents for about twenty 
minutes to half an hour, during which time shake the pan occasionally 
to prevent the bones burning ; then add two wineglassfuls of sherry, one 
large sliced raw tomato, one ounce of good glaze, and one pint of good 
flavoured Brown sauce (vol. i.). Bring to the boil, then simmer for 
about half an hour on the edge of the stove, during which time keep it 
frequently skimmed, and when well flavoured remove the bones and 
rub the rest of the ingredients through a clean tammy cloth ; rewarm 



168 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

in the bain-marie, and mix with it one or two large truffles that have 

been chopped fine, and use. The bones can be used up in the stock-pot 

after the sauce. 

Chicken Dormers 

Dormers de Volatile 

Take some hard-boiled fresh eggs, remove the shells, and dry the 
eggs in a clean soft cloth, then cut each in halves lengthwise, using a 
hot wet knife for the purpose ; take out the entire yolk and some of the 
white, so as to form little cases ; fill up these spaces by means of a 
forcing bag and plain pipe with a ragout as below ; smooth over the 




top with a hot wet knife, and set them aside till cold ; then flour them and 
dip them into whole raw beaten-up egg and into freshly-made white 
breadcrumbs twice ; place in a frying-basket and plunge them into clean 
boiling fat and fry till a nice golden colour ; then dish up on a dish-paper, 
and garnish with crisply fried parsley, and use for a hot entree for luncheon 
or dinner, or on a flat dish as shown for ball supper, &c. 

Ragout for Chicken Dormers. Put into a stewpan two ounces of 
butter and two ounces of fine flour, and fiy together without browning ; 
then mix with it half a pint of light good-flavoured stock or new milk ; 
stir till boiling, season with a little salt and coralline pepper, and mix 
with it two raw yolks of eggs ; stir again over the fire till the sauce 
thickens, but do not let it boil ; colour with a few drops of Marshall's 
Liquid Carmine, and wring it through a clean tammy cloth. Mix with 
it four tablespoonfuls of finely-minced chicken or other white meat, four 
hard-boiled yolks of eggs that have been rubbed through a sieve, one 
tablespoonful of lean cooked ham or tongue, a teaspoonful of finely- 
chopped raw green parsley, one finely-chopped eschalot, and the strained 
juice of a lemon; mix up altogether, and use as directed. Sufficient 
for fourteen to sixteen dormers. 

Turban of Chicken a la Pi^montaise 

Turhfin de Volatile a la Piemontaise 

Butter a turban-mould, and arrange in it a buttered paper. Remove 
the breast fillets from a nice chicken, place them on a lightly-buttered 



OF EXTRA EECIPES HOT ENTREES 169 

baking-tin. sprinkle over them a little strained lemon-juice, put a 
buttered paper over, and cook them in a very moderate oven for about 
eight minutes ; then take them up, and put them to press between two 
plates, with a weight on the top, until cold. Cut them into as many 
fillets as possible (if care is taken, eight to ten can be made from the 
breast of one good fowl) ; sprinkle them alternately with chopped 
truffles and cooked lean ham or tongue, and arrange the fillets alternately 
on the buttered paper in the turban ; press them well to the side of the 
mould, and when it is completely covered fill up the centre, using a 




pipe and bag, with a farce prepared as below. Knock the mould on the 
table so that the mixture sinks well into it, then put it in a stewpan on 
a fold of paper, pour in sufficient boiling water to three-fourths cover 
the mould, place the stewpan on the stove, and watch the water reboil ; 
then place the cover on the pan, draw it to the side of the stove, and 
let the contents steam for half an hour. When cooked, turn out the 
turban on to an entree dish, remove the paper, fill the centre of the turban 
with a puree of mushrooms (vol. i. page 35), or any other nice vegetable 
may be used, and pour a nice creamy Veloute sauce (vol. i.) round the 
base. Serve for a hot entree. 

Farce for Turban a la Piemontaise. Pound four ounces of lean 
bacon or tongue, and ten ounces of raw chicken or other white meat, till 
smooth, and rub it through a wire sieve ; then mix it with two ounces 
of pate cle foie gras (that has also been rubbed through a sieve), and two 
large tablespoonfuls of thick Bechamel sauce (vol-, i.) ; season with a little 
white pepper and salt, and add two raw yolks of eggs, a tablespoonful of 
thick cream, and two or three finely-chopped cooked truffles or button 
mushrooms ; stir these ingredients well together, put the mixture into a 
forcing bag with a large plain pipe, and use. 

Turban of Chicken a la Venitienne 
Turban de Volaille a la Venitienne 

Butter a turban mould well and fill it with savoury farce as below, and 
let it steam for about twenty minutes, then turn it out on to a cake bot- 
tom (vol. i. page 40) that is masked lightly over with white farce as below. 



170 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

Mask the savoury farce all over with a thin layer of the white farce, and 
arrange all round this the breast fillets of a raw chicken (that have been 
sliced and larded), fastening these fillets on to the turban with a 
little of the white meat farce, using a forcing bag and pipe for the 
purpose ; then garnish with little rounds of cut tongue and truffle, 
sticking these with farce ; place a buttered paper round the turban, and 




put it in the oven to cook for about twenty minutes with a paper on the 
top and a few very thin slices of fat bacon to keep the fillets moist. 
Dish up, remove the paper band, and serve with Veloute sauce (vol. i.), 
round and braised olives (vol. i. page 33) in the centre, with cockscombs 
that have been warmed in their own liquor. This will be enough for 
twelve persons. The cockscombs are kept in bottles ready for use. 

Savoury Farce for Turban of Chicken A la Venitienne. Pound 
half a pound of raw white meat and rub it through a sieve, then mix 
with it two ounces of chopped cooked tongue or ham and two or three 
cooked chicken livers that have also been passed through a sieve ; add 
a saltspoonful of mignonette pepper and salt, a dust of coralline pepper, 
half a finely-chopped eschalot, a teaspoonful of chopped olives, the same 
of button mushrooms, one tablespoonful of thick Bechamel sauce (vol. i.), 
and two raw yolks of eggs ; mix up altogether, and put into the buttered 
mould by means of a forcing pipe and bag. 

White Farce for Masking Turban of Chicken A la Venitienne. 
Pound six ounces of chicken, rabbit, or veal till smooth, then pound 
six ounces of panard, and mix together ; add two and a half small or 
two large eggs, a pinch of salt, and white pepper, and one ounce of 
butter ; then pass through the sieve. 



Supreme of Chicken a l'Esp&rance 

Siqrreme de Volaille d I'Esperance 

Pick, singe, and cleanse a nice plump white chicken, and with a 
sharp knife remove the breast fillets ; cut these through into slices about 



OF EXTRA RECIPES HOT ENTREES 171 

one-eighth of an inch thick, making as many as possible ; bat them out 
flat with a chopping knife, which should be occasionally dipped into 
cold water, then trim the fillets neatly, and arrange them in a lightly- 
buttered saute pan, sprinkle well with strained lemon juice and a little 
salt, place on the top a buttered paper sufficiently large to cover them, 
and put in a moderate oven to cook for eight minutes, when they should 
be perfectly white and firm. Arrange them on a dish en couronne, pour 




over them and round the dish some Supreme sauce (vol. i.), and fill up 
the centre with peas, or any other nicely cooked vegetable, such as a 
macedoine, and on the top of the fillets arrange rings of cooked 
cucumber prepared as below. Serve Hot for a dinner entree. Rabbit 
can be prepared in the same manner. The remainder of the meat can 
be taken from the chicken to make a farce border on which the fillets 
may be dished. 

Cucumber for Supreme of Chicken a l/Esperance. Cut a small 
fresh cucumber into slices about a quarter of an inch thick, then with a 
plain round cutter, not quite so wide as the cucumber, stamp off the peel ; 
take a smaller cutter to stamp out the seedy part of the cucumber, and 
place the rings thus formed into a saute pan, with sufficient cold water 
to cover them ; season with a little salt, bring to the boil, then skim 
and boil very gently till tender; remove from the pan, and put them 
into cold water, and then drain each separately and carefully on a dry 
cloth ; butter a saute pan and place the rings in it. Take a small 
quantity of quenelle farce (vol. i. page 37), divide it into two parts, colour 
one with a few drops of Marshall's Liquid Carmine, leave the other 
white, and then put each portion into forcing bags with very small 
plain pipes ; fill up the centres of the rings to the tops with the white 
farce, then with the red farce form a little round in the centre, and 
outside this arrange a ring of truffle cut in the tiniest diamond shapes 
with a knife ; press the truffle well into the farce, and when this is done 
cover the rings carefully with boiling water, put on the stove and allow 
the water to reboil, then draw the pan aside for about ten minutes. 
When cooked, take up the rings and drain them on a cloth, then use 
as described above. The cucumber prepared thus forms a very pretty 
garnish for clear soup. 



172 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

Cream of Chicken a l'CEuf 
Or erne de Volatile d VCEuf 

Take one pound of raw chicken, free it from skin and bone, and 
pound it till smooth ; mix with it four tablespoonfuls of Bechamel sauce 
(vol. i.), and take from the mortar. Then pound half a pound of 
Panard (vol. i.) with one and a half ounces of butter, a saltspoonful of 
salt, and a tiuy dust of white pepper, and add it to the meat ; mix into 
it four whole eggs, and three tablespoonfuls of cream, and rub altogether 
through a coarse hair or fine wire sieve, and put the mixture into a 
well-buttered egg mould that is ornamented with cut truffle ; tie up the 




mould with tape or string, put it in a stewpan on a fold of paper, cover 
with boiling water ; watch the water reboil, then draw the pan to the 
side of the stove, and let the contents poach for three-quarters of an 
hour. Then take up, remove the tape, turn out the cream, and dish up 
on a square crouton of bread that is masked with Supreme sauce (vol. i.), 
garnish with hatelet skewers with large truffles and cockscombs on them, 
and serve with Supreme sauce round the base for an entree for dinner or 
luncheon. The above given quantities will be found sufficient for ten to 
twelve people. 

Cream of Chicken a la Reine 

Pain de Volatile a la Reine 

Pound ten ounces of raw chicken and six ounces of panard separately 
till smooth, then add two tablespoonfuls of Bechamel sauce, one ounce of 
butter, two and a half small eggs, and two large tablespoonfuls of thick 
fresh cream ; mix these well together, and season with a little pepper 
and salt, and pass through a fine sieve. Butter a plain timbal mould 
and sprinkle it all over with chopped truffle, then put in the mixture by 
means of a large forcing bag with a large plain pipe, knock the mould 
down well on the table so as to get the form of the mould. Take a 
stewpan large enough to hold the mould, place a piece of paper folded 
between the pan and the mould, and surround the mould with boiling 



OF EXTRA RECIPES HOT ENTREES 173 

water to about three parts its depth ; place it on the stove, watch the 
water reboil, and then put on the lid and steam for half an hour. When 
cooked turn out, and serve with a good creamy Veloute sauce (vol. i.) 
round the base of the dish ; serve for an entree for dinner or luncheon. 



Little Chicken Creams a la Francillon 

Peiites Crdmes de Volatile a la Francillon. 

Take half a pound of raw chicken and pound it till smooth ; then 
pound two ounces of Panard (vol. i.) with two tablespoonfuls of thick 
Bechamel sauce (vol. i.), and one ounce of butter, add a pinch of salt 
and white pepper, then mix into the pounded chicken till quite smooth ; 
work in two whole eggs; pass through a fine wire or coarse hair sieve, 
and add a large tablespoonful of thick cream. Butter the egg moulds 
all over both parts, and ornament them with cucumber (cut in pea 
shapes) or peas, till up the moulds with the mixture, using a forcing bag 



"^g x 




and plain pipe for the purpose ; make a well in the centre by dipping 
the finger into a little hot water and working it round till the space is 
formed ; fill this up with cooked asparagus peas (see recipe) and a little 
thick creamy Veloute sauce (vol. i.) ; join up the two parts of the moulds 
and poach them for about fifteen minutes in a stewpan containing boiling 
water, resting each egg mould in a dariol to keep it upright. Turn 
out the moulds, dish them on a border of potato or farce (vol. i. page 35), 
prepared in a piccolo mould, pour Veloute sauce round them, and garnish 
with cooked peas, cucumber, or asparagus points. 

Little Zephyrs of Chicken with Peas 
Petits Zephyrs de Volatile aux Petits Pots 

Take half a pound of chicken, two ounces of Panard (vol. L), one 
and a half tablespoonfuls of thick Bechamel sauce, half an ounce of 
butter, a pinch of salt and white pepper, and a dust of Marshall's 
Coralline Pepper ; pound the meat, and remove it from the mortar ; then 



174 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

pound the panard, then mix in the chicken and other ingredients, add 
two small eggs, then pass all through a coarse hair or fine wire sieve, 
and mix with one tablespoonful of thick cream. Put the mixture into a 
forcing bag with a plain pipe and force with great care (so as not to 
disturb the garnish) into little buttered fancy bouche or dariol moulds 
that are ornamented at the bottom with tiny rounds and strips of 
truffle ; smooth over with a wet warm knife, put them in a stewpan 
in boiling water, and poach for twelve to fifteen minutes. When cooked 
turn out of the moulds, dish on a border of potatoes, and serve Veloute 
sauce (vol. i.) round, garnish with peas or any other nice green 
vegetable, and serve for a dinner entree. 

Little Poached Chicken Souffles 
Petit* SoufflSs de Volatile PochSs 

Put in a stewpan one ounce of butter, one ounce of finely-sifted 
flour, one and a half raw yolks of eggs, a pinch of salt and white pepper, 
one gill and a half of mushroom liquor, and a tea-spoonful of strained 
lemon juice ; stir these over the fire till they boil, then add two ounces 
of cooked chicken that has been freed from skin and sinews and 
chopped up very fine, and the very stiffly whipped whites of three 
eggs ; mix these carefully together so as not to curdle the eggs, then put 
the mixture into small china cases that have been lightly buttered. 
Put into a stewpan sufficient boiling water to three parts cover the 
cases, put a piece of paper on the bottom of the pan, place the cases on 
this, put the stewpan on the stove and watch the water reboil ; then 
cover up the pan, draw it to the side of the stove and let the souffles 
poach for eighteen minutes. When cooked take them up, sprinkle 
them alternately with chopped raw parsley and cooked tongue, and 
serve at once on a hot dish, on a paper or napkin, for an entree for 
dinner or luncheon. 

Any white meat can be used instead of chicken if desired. 

Little Mousses of Chicken 

Petites Mousses de Volaille 

Take some raw chicken meat, free it from bone and skin, and pound 
it till smooth and rub it through a wire sieve ; weigh out a quarter of a 
pound and add to it a quarter of a pint of thick Bechamel sauce (vol. i.), 
one and a half tablespoonfuls of sherry, a pinch of salt and white pepper, 
four raw yolks of egg, one and a- half tablespoonfuls of thick cream ; 



OF EXTRA RECIPES HOT ENTREES 175 

stir well together, then add to it four raw whites of eggs that have been 
stiffly whipped with a pinch of salt ; mix well again, and put the mix- 
ture into a forcing bag with a plain pipe. Take some little bomb 
moulds, well butter them, and garnish them with shredded gherkins, 
hard-boiled white of egg, truffle and French red chillies, and nearly 
fill them with the prepared mixture ; stand the moulds in a stewpan 
on a fold of paper, surround them with boiling water to three parts their 
depth ; watch the water reboil, and let the contents poach for about 
eighteen minutes. Then take up the mousses and turn them out on a 
puree of Mushrooms (vol. i.), and serve with thin Supreme sauce (vol. i.) 
as a hot entree. 

Salmis of Chicken a la Regence 
Siil hi is ilc Volatile d la Regence 

Take any nice pieces of cold cooked fowl (that left from ;i previous 
meal could be used for the purpose), cut them into neat shapes, removing 
the skin and any untidy pieces, then put them into a good Salmis sauce 
(vol. i. page 21) coloured with a few drops of carmine ; make them quite 




hot in the bain-marie, dish up on a border, as below, and garnish with 
little croustades ; pour some of the sauce prepared for the salmis round 
the base of the dish, and serve at once for an entree for a dinner party. 
Croustades for Salmis of Chicken a la Regence. Take a quarter- 
pound of fine flour, two ounces of butter, and rub together till smooth, 
season with salt and coralline pepper ; mix with one whole egg and a 
little cold water into a smooth paste ; then roll it out thinly and line 
some little bouche moulds with it ; then line the paste with buttered 
paper, and fill up with raw rice and bake for fifteen to twenty minutes. 
Stamp out some small rings from the same paste to garnish, and bake till 
a pale golden colour, then remove the croustades from the moulds and fill 
them up with red and white Garnishing Quenelles (vol. i. page 51), and 
pieces of cut truffles and cooked button mushrooms and Financiere that 
have all been mixed with a little thin creamy Veloute sauce (vol. i.). 
Place four of the rings on each and use. 



176 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

Border for Salmis of Chicken a la Kkgexce. Butter a Breton 
border mould and garnish it with rings of boiled Naples Macaroni (see 
' Sweetbread a l'lmperatrice '), then with a forcing bag and plain pipe 
fill up the mould with a farce of chicken (vol. i. page 36). knock the 
mould on the table so that the mixture sinks well into the shape, then 
put it in a stewpan on a fold of paper; cover it with boiling water, 
watch the water reboil. then draw the pan aside and poach for fifteen 
minutes, turn out and use. 

Little Chickens a la St. George 

Petit* 1'n/ilfts a tii St. George 

Butter some little chicken moulds and line them with White farce 
(vol. i. page 36), make a little well in the centre of each, and place 
in the spaces thus formed a ragout as below ; cover over with more 
farce, smooth it with a hot wet knife, place the moulds in a saute pan 
on a piece of paper, cover with boiling water, bring this to the boil, 
then draw the pan to the side of the stove, and let the creams poach for 
fifteen minutes. When cooked, dish up od a border of farce or potatoes, 
and serve with the sauce over and a puree of mushrooms or flageolets 
in the centre. 



Sauce for Little Chickens a la St. George. Take one pint of 
tomato pulp, and put it in a stewpan with a finely-chopped eschalot, 
the juice of a lemon, a teaspoonful of Liebig Company's Extract of 
Meat, a few drops of carmine, and a dust of coralline pepper ; bring 
this to the boil, then mix it with two ounces of butter and one ounce 
of arrowroot that have been mixed together, half a gill of cream and a 
wineglassful of sherry ; reboil, add a little salt, then tammy, rewarm 
and use. 

Ragout for Chickens a la St. George. Cut two ounces of lean 
cooked ham into dice shapes with a truffle and one or two button mush- 
rooms ; mix them with sauce prepared as below. For the sauce, take 
one wineglassful of sherry, a teaspoonful of Liebig Company's Extract 
of Meat, a tablespoonful of cold Brown sauce, one finely-chopped escha- 
lot and a pinch of finely-chopped raw parsley ; boil to half the quantity., 
add the above ragout and use when cold. 

Little Chickens a l'lmperiale 
Petits Poulets & l'lmperiale 

Lightly butter some small chicken moulds, and by means of a forcing 
bag with a large plain pipe fill- them with faroe (vol. i. page 109), 



OF EXTRA RECIPES HOT ENTREES 177 

make a well in the centre of each, and nearly fill these spaces with a 
puree of chicken as below, then cover this over with a little more 
of the farce that was used for lining the moulds, and smooth over the 
tops with a hot wet knife. Put a fold of paper in a saute pan, place the 
moulds on this, cover them completely with boiling water ; place the 
pan on the stove, watch the water reboil, place a buttered paper over 
tin- moulds, put the cover on the pan and let the contents steam for 
about fifteen minutes ; when cooked turn out the moulds on to a clean 
cloth. Arrange a fried crouton of bread in the centre of a border of 




potatoes (vol. i.) on an entnV dish, stand the chickens upright on this, 
resting them against the crouton, mask them carefully with a good 
creamy Supreme sauce (vol. i.), and by means of a forcing bag with a 
large rose pipe force a little puree of green peas between each chicken ; 
arrange at the top little stamped-out rounds of ox-tongue about an 
eighth of an inch thick and half an inch in diameter, that have been 
warmed in a little sherry between two plates. Arrange some Financiere 
on a hatelet skewer, and stick this in the centre of the croutons. Serve 
Supreme sauce (vol. i.) round the base and over the chickens ; place 
a round of cooked tongue on top between each chicken, and serve. 

Pubee for Little Chickens A l'Impeeiale. Take, for eight to 
ten moulds, six ounces of raw chicken, free it from skin and bone and 
pound it till smooth, rub through a fine sieve, then mix with two table- 
spoonfuls of thick cream, a pinch of salt, a dust of Marshall's Coralline 
Pepper; mix well together, put into a forcing bag with a small plain pipe, 
and use. 

Supreme of Pheasant a la St. Hubert 
Supreme do Faisan d In. St. Htibert 

Take a nice cleansed pheasant, remove the breast fillets from it, and 
cut them into as many nice long pieces as possible, not quite a quarter 

N 



178 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

of an inch thick ; bat them out with a cold wet knife and season with a 
little pepper and salt, finely-chopped parsley and eschalot, and two 
tablespoonfuls of good game stock ; place them in a buttered saute pan 
with a buttered paper over, and cook in a moderate oven for about eight 
minutes. Mask the supremes over with a little Tomato puree (vol. i.), 




dish up on a border of farce or potato, and between each piece of the 
meat place a little quenelle that is prepared of pheasant and poached in 
small quenelle tins. Serve with a compote of French plums (see re- 
cipe) in the centre and Hubert sauce (see recipe) round the dish, and 
use for an entree for dinner or luncheon. 

Quenelles for Supreme of Pheasant a la St. Hubert. Take five 
ounces of raw pheasant, pound it till smooth, then pound four ounces 
of panard, half an ounce of butter, two whole raw eggs, a little salt and 
pepper ; mix all together, and then rub through a fine wire sieve ; mix 
with a dessertspoonful of cream a few drops of carmine, and put into 
quenelle moulds slightly buttered and masked with chopped truffle, 
poach for twelve to fifteen minutes, then turn out on a cloth, and use. 



Beignets of Pheasant a la Dominique 

Beignets de Faisan d la Dominique 

Prepare a puree of pheasant and form it into ball shapes about the 
size of a walnut, rolling each with a little flour to prevent it sticking ; 
make a little well inside the ball by pressing the finger inside it, and 
place inside the well a little piece of good set glaze about the size of a 
small Spanish nut, and a piece of truffle or cooked button mushroom 
about the same size as the glaze ; roll up again into balls, and by means 
of a forcing bag and small plain pipe cover the balls over with Profite- 
role paste (vol. i. p. 364, omitting the cheese), and after covering them 
with the paste roll them again with a little flour and drop them into 
clean hot fat and fry them over a quick fire for eight to ten minutes, 
during which time keep them constantly turned over and over ; they 



OF EXTRA RECIPES HOT ENTREES 179 

should be a pretty golden colour when cooked. Then take them up on 
a pastry-rack and drain them j brush them over very lightly with raw 
white of egg that has been just mixed up with a fork, and sprinkle on 




the top of each beignet alternately a little finely-chopped lean cooked 
ham or tongue and a little chopped truffle or parsley. Dish up in a 
pile on a hot dish on a dish-paper, and serve for an entree for dinner or- 
luncheon. 

PUREE FOR BEIGNETS OF PHEASANT A LA DOMINIQUE. For twelve 
beignets take three-quarters of a pound of cold cooked pheasant, pound 
it till quite smooth, and mix with it two large tablespoonfuls of thick 
Bechamel sauce (vol. i.), one ounce of good butter, a pinch of salt, and 
a slight dust of cayenne pepper ; when mixed into a perfectly smooth 
paste rub it all through a fine wire sieve, and use as directed. 

Cream of Pheasant with Truffles 
Crdme de Faisa/n cmx Trujfes 

Take ten ounces of raw pheasant, free it from skin and bone and 
pound it in a mortar till perfectly smooth, then remove it ; pound six 
ounces of Panard (vol. i.) with two tablespoonfuls of thick Brown sauce 
(vol. i.) and one ounce of good butter ; season with a dust of Marshall's 
Coralline Pepper, a saltspoonful of salt, and half an ounce of warm 
glaze, and when these ingredients are well mixed together add the raw 
pheasant and work all into a smooth paste, then add to it three and a 
half raw eggs and a few drops of carmine, and mix again well ; rub the 
mixture through a fine wire sieve, add to it one tablespoonful of truffle 
essence, and put it into a forcing bag with a large plain pipe. Have a 
timbal mould well buttered, sprinkle it with finely-chopped truffle, then, 
force the mixture, prepared as above, into it, knock the mould on the 
table to make the mixture fall well into the shape, then place it in a 
stewpan on a fold of kitchen paper ; pour in enough boiling water to 

N 2 



180 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

cover three parts the depth of the mould, watch the water reboil, place 
the cover on the stewpan, and let it remain on the edge of the stove for 
the contents to poach for half an hour. When cooked turn out the 
cream carefully on to a hot entree dish, and serve with sauce, prepared 
as below, over it. 

Sauce for Cream of Pheasant. Chop up the bones of the pheasant 
and put them into a stewpan with one ounce of butter, a dust of 
coralline pepper, half an onion cut up in tiny dice shapes, two fresh 
well-washed mushrooms, one tomato, a bunch of herbs (thyme, parsley, 
and bayleaf), six peppercorns ; fry these altogether for about fifteen 
minutes, then add a wineglassful of sherry, half an ounce of glaze, and 
a pint of Brown sauce ; bring to the boil, let it simmer gently for about 
fifteen minutes, keeping skimmed while boiling ; then remove the bones, 
wring the sauce through the tammy, add two or three finely-chopped 
truffles, a few drops of carmine, and use while hot. 

Tinibal of Pheasant a la Baronne 
Timbale de Faisan & la Baronne 

Take the breast from the pheasant and cut it into as many nice long 
fillets as possible, bat them out with a wet knife, and trim them into 
long narrow kite shapes, and lard half of the number with long lardons 
that will pass through the fillets and show out on the opposite side to 
where the ends of the lardons are. Prepare a farce as for ' Cream of 
Pheasant with Truffles ' and mask the unlarded fillets with a thin layer 




of it, smooth over with a wet, warm knife, and ornament each fillet with 
little pieces of truffle cut in diamonds and rounds ; press these well into 
the farce, and put the fillets on a buttered tin, with a buttered paper 
over them, and place them in the oven for about five minutes, so as to 
just set the farce and prevent the truffle from getting out of place. 
Well butter the mould, and arrange a buttered paper all over the inside 
of it, place the larded and masked" fillets alternately against the side of 



OF EXT1LV RECIPES HOT ENTREES 



181 



the mould, putting them close together; now mask the inner sides of 
the fillets all over with a layer of the prepared farce, fill up the centre 
of the mould with braised cabbage (see recipe), and stand it in a 
saucepan on a fold of paper, pour round it sufficient boiling water to 
reach three-quarters up the side of the mould, watch the water till it 
reboils, draw the pan to the side of the stove, put on the lid, and let the 
timbal steam for three-quarters of an hour. Dish up, and pour the 
sauce round the base, and place some braised cabbage or a larded and 
braised sweetbread (vol. i.) on the top. Serve for an entree for dinner. 

Sauce fob Timbal of Pheasant. Put one ounce of butter in a 
stewpan with one sliced tomato, half an onion, two fresh mushrooms, a 
pinch of mignonette pepper, a little bayleaf. thyme, and parsley, and 
place the bones of the pheasant, chopped small, on the top of these 
ingredients ; fry altogether for fifteen or twenty minutes ; then add half 
a wineglassful of port and one pint of Brown sauce (vol. i.), let all boil 
together for about twenty minutes, keeping it well skimmed, remove 
the bones with a fork, pass the rest through the tammy, and serve quite 
hot round the timbal. 

Cabbage for top of Timbal. Take about three tablespoonfuls of 
braised cabbage, just before adding the yolks of eggs; keep this hot in 
the pan of the bain-marie till required ; arrange it on the top of the 
timbal, and stick it over with little strips of truffle. 

Little Mousses of Partridge a la Magenta 
Petites Mousses de Perdreawa <i In Magenta 

Take one large raw partridge, free it from skin and bone, and pound 
it till smooth ; then rub it through a wire sieve, weigh a quarter of a 
pound and add to it a quarter of a pint of Bechamel sauce (vol. i.), one 
and a half tablespoonfuls of sherry, a pinch of salt and white pepper, 




four raw yolks of eggs, one and a half tablespoonfuls of thick cream, 
and four whites of eggs that have been stiffly whipped with a pinch 
of salt; mix well together, and put the mixture into a forcing bag 
with a plain pipe. Take some little bomb moulds, well butter them 



182 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

and garnish them with shredded gherkins, hard-boiled white of eggs, and 
red chillies, and three parts fill them with the prepared mixture ; stand 
the moulds in a stewpan on a fold of paper, surround them to three parts 
their depth with boiling water; watch the water reboil and let the 
contents poach for about eighteen, minutes, then take up the mousses 
and turn them out on to a puree of mushrooms (vol. i.). Pour Magenta 
sauce round the dish immediately they are dished up, and serve at 
once. 

Little Creams of Partridge a la Monza 
Petits Pains de Perdreau a la Monza 

Take some little fluted dariols, butter and ornament them with finely- 
chopped raw green parsley and lean cooked tongue or ham, then line the 
mould over with a thin layer of quenelle farce, prepared either from 
Veal, Rabbit, or Chicken (vol. i. p. 37), and fill up the inside with a 
puree of partridge ; place the moulds on a fold of paper in a stewpan 
containing boiling water to three-parts the depth of the moulds ; watch 




the water reboil, then place the stewpan in a moderate oven for fifteen 
to twenty minutes ; when firm take up and turn out on a puree of 
potato or peas and serve with sauce, as below, round the dish, and here 
and there some little red French chillies that are farced with a little of 
the quenelle farce and poached. The quantities given below are suffi- 
cient for ten to twelve moulds. 

Puree of Partridge for Creams of Partridge A la Monza. 
Take three-quarters of a pound of raw partridge, pound it till smooth, 
then mix with it a tablespoonful of Tomato sauce (vol. i.), two ditto of 
sherry, a pinch of salt, a dust of Marshall's Coralline Pepper, two and a 
half whole raw eggs, a few drops of carmine, and an ounce of glaze ; 
when well mixed together rub all through a wire sieve and add a little 
finely-chopped truffle and use. 

Sauce for Creams of Partridge A la Monza. Put the bones and 
any trimming from the birds into a stewpan with two finely-chopped 
eschalots, one ounce of butter, a bunch of herbs, six or eight pepper- 
corns, a little piece of raw bacon, a strip of celery, two or three raw button 



OF EXTRA RECIPES HOT ENTREES 183 

mushrooms ; fry together for about fifteen minutes, then add a wineglass 
of sherry, a quarter-pint of white wine, one and a half pints of good 
flavoured light stock ; bring to the boil and simmer for about an hour, 
keeping skimmed ; then strain and stir one pint of the liquor on to two 
ounces of butter fried with two ounces of fine flour as for Veloute sauce ; 
stir till boiling, add a little cream, tammy and use. 

Salmis of Quails a l'Empress 
Salmis de Gailles a V Empress 

Take some roast or braised quails, cut them in halves, dust over with 
sifted fine flour, and place them in a saute pan, cover them with sauce 
prepared as below, and boil them in it for ten to fifteen minutes ; then 




dish them up on a border of potato, garnish the centre of the dish with 
Potato puree (vol. i. page 35), braised olives (vol. i. page So), and French 
red chillies ; pour the sauce round the dish, and serve at once for an 
entree for dinner or luncheon while quite hot. 

Sauce for Salmis of Quails a l'Empress. Take two washed fresh 
mushrooms, one ounce of cut-up lean bacon, two large sliced onions, 
a bunch of herbs, one ounce of butter, two fresh tomatoes ; fry these for 
twenty minutes. Then add to the pan one ounce of good glaze, a wine- 
glassful of sherry, the juice of a lemon, a few drops of carmine, one and 
a half pints of Brown sauce, a dust of coralline pepper, and two chopped 
French gherkins ; boil with any bird bones, such as pheasant, &c, for 
twenty to thirty minutes, keeping well skimmed while cooking ; then 
rub through the tammy, reboil, and use. 

Outlets of Quails a la GreVille 

Cotelettes de Gailles a la Greville 

Take some picked, singed, and boned quails and cut them in halves T 
allowing one half to each person, place inside each a teaspoonful of puree 
prepared as below, and brush over with whole beaten-up raw egg ; wrap 
in a small piece of cleansed pork caul, then sprinkle over with a little 



184 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

fine flour, dip into beaten-up egg and then into freshly-made bread- 
crumbs, and fry in clean boiling fat till a pretty golden colour. When 
cooked dish up on a border of potato (vol. i.), garnish the centre with 
peas or any other nice vegetable, and serve, with Supreme sauce (vol. i.) 
round the dish, whilst quite hot. 

PurEe for Cutlets of Quails a la Grevtlle. Take, for six to 
eight persons, a small basket of fresh mushrooms, wash and cleanse them 
thoroughly, then press from the water and chop them up very fine ; put 
them into a saute pan with one and a half ounces of butter, one finely- 
chopped eschalot, and a little salt and pepper, and draw down on the 
side of the stove till the mushrooms are into a puree ; then add two ounces 
of finely-chopped cooked ham, one ounce of freshly-made white bread- 
crumbs, two ounces of pate de. foie gras that has been rubbed through 
a wire sieve, and a teaspoonful of warm glaze ; mix together, and set aside 
in a cool place till firm, then use. 

Quails a l'Ecossaise 
Gailles d l'Ecossaise 

Have the quails as fat as possible, bone and cleanse them, and cut 
them in halves, place them in little china or oiled paper cases, and 
sprinkle with a little chopped eschalot and mushroom and parsley, and 
squeeze over each a few drops of strained lemon juice ; then put about 
two tablespoonfuls of Espagnol sauce (vol. i.) on the top of each quail, 
and lightly mask over with raw white of egg that has been whipped stiff 
with a pinch of salt and coralline pepper, using a forcing bag and large 



rose pipe for the purpose, and raising the leg and foot through the 
whipped egg, sprinkle with a few browned breadcrumbs; place on a 
baking-tin and cook in a moderate oven for about fifteen minutes, then 
dish up on a paper, and garnish the centre with little sprigs of watercress 
that are well washed and seasoned with salt, pepper, and salad oil, and a 
few drops of tarragon vinegar. This can be served as an entree for 
dinner, luncheon, or as a second-course dish. 



OF EXTRA RECIPES HOT ENTREES 185 

Quails a la Tosca 
( 'ni lies d la Tosca 

Pick, singe, and bone some quails, leaving half the leg bone in the 
bottom part of the leg with the foot on ; season them with finely- 
chopped fresh mushrooms, eschalot, parsley, and a little salt and 
Marshall's Coralline Pepper ; put them in a buttered saute pan, saute 
them for two to three minutes, and put them to press till cold ; then 
mask them over with the sauce prepared as below, sprinkle with fine 
flour, dip them into whole beaten-up egg and freshly-made white bread- 




crumbs; repeat this twice, batting them with a palette knife to keep them 
quite smooth, then fry in clean boiling fat till a pretty golden colour. 
When cooked dish up on a border of potato (vol. i.). in the centre of 
which place a crouton of fried bread that is scooped out and filled with 
a puree of fresh mushrooms (vol. i.), garnish with prepared Financiere, as 
in engraving, fixing it with a hatelet skewer, which will give a pretty 
finish to the dish, and serve with Champagne sauce (vol. i.). 

Sauce fok Masking Quails a la Tosca. Take half a pint of hot thick 
Bechamel sauce and mix with it three raw yolks of eggs ; stir this over 
the fire till it thickens, then tammy, and add a tabiespoonful of finely- 
chopped cooked ham or tongue, two hard-boiled yolks of eggs that 
have been rubbed through a wire sieve, and a dessertspoonful of finely- 
chopped parsley ; mix altogether and use as described above. 

Quails a la Rubanee 

I'ltlJJes d la Rubanee 

Take some nice fat quails trussed for roasting, dip them into warm 
butter and roast for fifteen minutes, then take them up and cut length- 



186 M1IS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

wise into halves and dust them over on both sides with a little sifted 
flour ; put the quails into some Rubanee sauce and allow them to 
simmer for about five minutes. Then dish up the birds en couronne on a 
border of farce or potato, garnish round with croutons of fried bread 
(that are stamped out in heart shapes) and quarters of plovers' eggs, 
when in season ; fill up the centre of the dish with a puree of spinach, 
pour the sauce round the base, and serve hot for an entree for dinner or 
luncheon. 

Cutlets of Pigeon a l'lmperiale 
Cotelettes de Pigeon d l'lmperiale 

Take some nice small tender pigeons for this entree ; pick, singe, 
and bone them, with the exception of the bottom bone in the leg, and 
scald the feet so that the outer skin may be removed and the nails 
trimmed. Lard the centre of the breast fillet with fine lardons of fat 
bacon, trim these evenly, and season the underneath side with pepper 
and salt, then form them into nice neat cutlet shapes. Put into a stew- 
pan two ounces of butter, a bunch of herbs (thyme, parsley, bayleaf), 
two or three peeled and finely-sliced onions, a little celery, a sliced 
turnip, six or eight peppercorns, two or three cloves, and a piece of 
bacon rind or bone with any trimmings ; place the birds on these, put a 
buttered paper over them, cover down the pan, place it on the stove, 




and let the contents fry for about fifteen minutes ; then add a wine- 
glassful of sherry and a wineglassful of white wine, and put the stewpan 
into the oven with the lid slightly raised ; braise the contents for about 
one hour, during which time add a little more wine and about a quarter- 
pint of good stock, and keep the birds frequently basted ; then take 
them up and place them on a baking-tin, lightly brush them over with 
a little warm glaze, and put them into a quick oven to crisp the lardons. 
Dish up en couronne on a border of potatoes (vol. i.), and serve a com- 
pote of pears in the centre (see recipe), and cucumber and lemon 
garnish between each cutlet ; pour Imperial sauce round the base, and 
serve for a hot entree. 



OF EXTRA RECIPESHOT EXTHEES 187 

CuCUMBEB AND LEMON (Jarnish. Take a piece of raw fresh cucum- 
ber and by means of a small knife cut narrow strips out of the skin, so 
as to give it a scalloped appearance ; then cut the cucumber straight 
through into halves and then into fine slices, so as to form a scalloped 
half-moon shape. Cut some lemons in the same way, using quarters 
instead of halves as for the cucumber ; place one slice of the lemon 
between two pieces of the cucumber, and arrange these between the 
fillets as previously instructed. 

Cutlets of Pigeon a la Lucine 
Gdtelettes de Pigeon d la Lucine 

Pick, singe, and cleanse some Bordeaux pigeons, and bone them from 
the back, leaving the bottom part of the leg bone and foot attached; cut 
each bird lengthwise into halves, lard the leg part of each with lardons 
of fat bacon and French gherkins; trim these neatly, and season the 
underneath side of the bird with a little salt and pepper, finely-chopped 
eschalot, and fresh mushroom; form each into a neat cutlet shape and 
place them in a buttered Btewpau with two or three small sliced onions, 
a bunch of herbs (thyme, parsley, and bayleaf), and some pieces of raw 
fat and lean bacon (using any odds and ends for this purpose); place a 
buttered paper over the cutlets, cover down the pan, and fry the contents 
over a quick fire for about fifteen minutes. Then sprinkle over them a 
wineglassful of sherry and a quarter-pint of good flavoured stock; place 
the stewpan in a moderate oven, and let the cutlets braise for about an 
hour, keeping them well basted while braising, and adding a little more 
liquor if required. When cooked, take up the cutlets on a baking-tin, 
brush them over with a little warm glaze, sprinkle over some grated 
Parmesan cheese, then put them back into the oven for a few minutes 
to crisp. Dish up on a border of potatoes, with a macedoine of cooked 
vegetables in the centre, and Lucine sauce round the dish. Serve for 
a hot entree for dinner or luncheon. 

Cutlets of Pigeon a la Piemontaise 
Gdtelettes de Pigeon d hi Ptimontaise 

Pick and singe the pigeons and bone them with the exception of 
the leg, and cut each bird into two, so that the meat attached to each 
leg will form a cutlet ; scald the feet, cut the nails off, and peel off the 
outer skin ; season the cutlets with black pepper and salt, a little 
chopped eschalot, parsley, and lean cooked ham or tongue, and put them 
in a buttered saute pan, with the skin side uppermost. Saute them for 



188 



MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 



about two minutes, then place them in the oven for four or five minutes ; 
remove them, and put them to press, and when the cutlets are cold 
trim them neatly and mask them over lightly with veal or beef farce 
(vol. i.) ; smooth the farce over with a hot wet knife, so that each 
leg takes a nice cutlet shape ; dip them in well beaten-up whole egg 
and then in freshly-made breadcrumbs ; bat the crumbs with a knife till 
they are all smooth ; place the cutlets in a saute pan with about two 
ounces of clarified butter, and fry till a nice golden colour. Dish up on a 




border of farce or potato, and serve with a puree of mushrooms in the 
centre, and Espagnol sauce, in which the bones of the bird have been 
used for flavour, round the base. A cutlet frill, if liked, may be placed 
on each foot, and the cutlets can be fried in lard or oil if more 
convenient. Serve for an entree for dinner or luncheon while quite hot ; 
other birds can be used in the same way. 



Turban of Pigeon a la Bonanza 
Turban de Pigeon a la Bonanza 

Prepare a farce as below, and reserve about a tablespoonful to use 
as described later. Put the remainder into a forcing bag with a large 
plain pipe, and with it fill a well-buttered turban mould, and knock this 
on the table, so that the mixture sinks well down into the mould ; place 




a fold of paper on the bottom of a stewpan, stand the turban on it, 
and pour boiling water into the "Stewpan to cover three-fourths the 



OF EXTRA RECIPES HOT ENTREES 189 

depth of the mould ; stand the stewpan on the stove and watch the 
water reboil ; then put a cover on the pan, and let the turban simmer 
gently for about twenty minutes ; take up and turn out the turban 
on to a paste bottom (vol. L). Pick, singe, cleanse, and bone (for eight 
to ten persons) four pigeons, and cut them into halves ; lard the centre 
of the breast fillets with finely-cut lardons of fat bacon, trim them 
evenly with a pair of scissors, then arrange them, overlapping each 
other as in engraving, on the prepared turban, joining them to the 
border witli the farce that was reserved, using a forcing bag and plain 
pipe for the purpose ; squeeze a little of the farce between each fillet, 
and stick into this little shreds of cooked tongue or ham. cooked button 
mushrooms and French gherkins, and at the top and bottom of each 
arrange little bunches of the same garnish in the form of a star (see 
engraving). This adds greatly to the prettiness of the dish. Fold 
lengthwise a sheet of kitchen paper into four; butter one side of it well 
with cold butter, fasten it tightly round the turban with the buttered 
side next to the meat ; then place the whole on a baking-tin, and put 
into a moderate oven for about half an hour. When cooked remove the 
paper, and with a slice place tin- turban on a hot dish ; garnish it with 
any nice vegetables in the centre, such as macedoine or peas that have 
been mixed with a little butter and a tiny dust of castor sugar, and 
serve Chaponay sauce (vol. i.) round the base of the dish. 

Liver Farce for Turban a la Bonanza. Cut up four ounces of 
any birds' livers into dice shapes and put these into a saute pan with 
one ounce of butter, two fresh chopped mushrooms, one eschalot, a pinch 
of salt, one bayleaf, and a sprig of thyme and parsley ; fry for four or 
five minutes, then pound till smooth, and rub through a wire sieve. 

Farce for Turban a la Bonanza. Pound four ounces of lean cooked 
tongue or ham and ten ounces of veal or rabbit till quite smooth, then 
mix with two tablespoonfuls of thick Soubise sauce (vol. i.), a dust of 
coralline pepper, half a wineglassful of sherry, and two whole eggs; rub 
through a wire sieve, then mix. with the puree of liver, twelve blanched and 
shredded pistachio nuts, two shredded truffles, and two shredded button 
mushrooms, and use. 

Larks in Baskets 
Ma/uviettes en Oorbeilles 

Farce some boned larks with beef farce, prepared as in recipe ' Little 
Creams of Beef ; make a little well inside each with the finger, occasion- 
ally dipping the latter in hot water ; place inside the spaces thus formed 
a little slice of blanched beef marrow (vol. i.) that is masked over with 



190 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

a little finely-chopped parsley ; close the farce well over this, and place 
the larks in little bands of buttered paper, and put them in a saute pan 
between two pieces of fat bacon to cook for about fifteen minutes. Then 
remove the paper and place the larks in little short paste cases (see 
recipe ' Little Croustades with Calf's Brains ' ), and add a little sauce 
sufficient to reach to the top of the breast. Then with a forcing bag 
and pipe cover the bird entirely with some of the beef farce, smooth it 
over with a wet warm knife, and ornament the edges of the basket with 




a little white farce (see vol. i.) in the shape of peas, using a bag and small 
pipe for the purpose ; place the cases in a moderate oven with a buttered 
paper over, and cook for about fifteen minutes. Have the heads and 
feet cleansed and cooked as for ' Larks a la Reyniere,' and put on top 
of the farce, and garnish with handles of paste made from the remains 
of the paste used for the baskets ; then dish up on a paper, one to each 
person, and serve. These can also be served cold. 

Sauce for Larks in Baskets. Put into a stewpan the bones from 
the birds, half a pint of good Brown sauce (vol. i.), with half an ounce 
of glaze, a wineglassful of sherry, a quarter-pint Tomato sauce (vol. i.), 
and a pinch of castor sugar ; boil down for about fifteen minutes ; keep 
skimmed while boiling, then tammy, and use. 

Larks a la Cologne 
Mauviettes d la Cologne 

Take some fresh boned larks and place a piece of Maitre d'Hotel 
Butter (vol. i.), about the size of a Spanish nut, inside each, with a raw 
bearded oyster ; roll up each lark, tie them with a piece of string, put 
them into a buttered saute pan, with a little hot butter, and place in a 
quick oven for about eight minutes, then take up and remove the strings. 
Butter some little quenelle moulds and fill them with chicken or rabbit 
farce, prepared as in vol. i. page 37 ; make a little well in the centre of 
each with the finger (which should be dipped in hot water), and in the 
spaces thus formed place the larks with a saltspoonful of gravy prepared 



OF EXTRA RECIPES HOT ENTREES 191 

as below ; cover up with more farce, and place the quenelles in a saute 
pan ; cover them with boiling light stock, set the pan on the stove, and 
watch the stock reboil, then draw the pan aside and Jet the quenelles 
poach for about ten minutes. Take up, turn out the quenelles, and dish 
them on a border of potato (vol. i.), with little stamped-out rounds of 



hot cooked tongue or ham between each ; brush the quenelles over with 
a little thin warm glaze, sprinkle them with a little finely-chopped 
truffle, and garnish with peas or any other nice vegetable in the centre 
and between the quenelles. Pour round the base the sauce as below, 
and serve hot. 

Sauce for Larks A la Cologne. Take three-quarters of a pint 
of Brown sauce (vol. i.), a teaspoonful of Bovril, a wineglassful of sherry, 
one or two fresh mushrooms, the oyster liquor and beards, and a pinch 
of castor sugar; reduce these a quarter-part, keeping it skimmed while 
boiling, then tammy, and use. 

Gravy for inside Quenelles. Take one ounce of good glaze, one 
wineglassful of sherry, and two well-washed fresh mushrooms chopped 
fine, boil together for about ten minutes, set aside till cold, then use. 

Larks a la Reyniere 
Mauviettes d la Reyni&re 

Take some boned larks and farce them with a little jidte de foie gras, 
then put each in a small band of buttered paper and tie them up ; butter 
a stewpan and put in it a slice or two of carrot, onion, turnip, leek, 
celery, a bunch of herbs, such as thyme, parsley, and bayleaf, and a few 
peppercorns ; place the larks on these vegetables, put a buttered paper 
over them, and fry for about five minutes ; add a quarter-pint of stock, 
place the pan in the oven for ten minutes, then take up the larks and 
remove the paper. Butter some little hexagon dariol moulds, sprinkle 
them with chopped truffle and then line them with beef farce (see vol. i. 
page 36), using a forcing bag and pipe for the purpose ; make a little well 
in the centre of each with the finger, which should be occasionally dipped 
in hot water, place a lark in the space thus formed and cover over with 
more farce. Place a piece of paper in the bottom of a stewpan, on which 



192 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

put the dariols ; pour in boiling water until it reaches to three-quarters 
the depth of the moulds, watch it reboil, then draw the pan to the side 
of the stove and poach for about fifteen minutes ; turn out the dariols on 
to a border of farce (vol. i.), pour the sauce over them, and place the 




prepared heads and feet of the larks on the top of the portions, as in 
engraving, and serve for an entree for dinner. To cook the head and 
feet of the birds cleanse them, place them in a buttered paper, put to 
cook in the oven for ten to twelve minutes, and just before serving brush 
over with a little warm glaze. 

Larks a la Czarina 

Mnuviettes d la Czarina 

Pick, cleanse, and bone some larks, leaving the heads with the necks 
on, but removing the eyes, cut the bone from the leg3, and then with a 
forcing bag and plain pipe farce them from the back of the neck with 
the preparation prepared as below, close the farce well in and make the 
bird into a nice plump shape, arranging the head at the top so that it 
stands upright ; dip the birds into fine flour and brush them over with 




whole beaten-up raw egg, wrap each in a very thin piece of pork caul, 
brush each again with whole beaten-up egg, then take the birds in the 
hand and press some freshly-made white breadcrumbs well to them and 
make them resemble the shape of small pears. Place them in a frying 
basket, and fry in clean boiling fat for six to eight minutes, when they 
should be a pretty golden colour ; take up and arrange them in a ring 



OF EXTRA RECIPES HOT ENTREES 



193 



on ;i potato border (vol. i.), and serve with peas or any other vegetable 
in the centre, and Czarina sauce round the base for an entree for dinner. 
It should be served very hot. 

Farce for Larks a la Czarina. Take one small cold, braised, and 
finely-chopped sweetbread, four hard-boiled yolks of eggs cut up in tiny 
square pieces, a tablespoonful of chopped cooked button mushrooms, one 
finely-chopped eschalot, and one ounce of freshly-made breadcrumbs ; 
mix altogether with one whole raw egg and one raw yolk, season with 
a little salt and a dust of coralline pepper, and use as directed. 

The above quantities are sufficient for twelve to fourteen larks. 

Cream of Hare a la Vatican 
Pain de TA&vre d la Vatican 

Take ten ounces of raw hare, free it from skin and bone and pound 
it till smooth, then mix with it eight ounces of panaid (vol. i.), two 
tablespoonfuls of good Espagnol sauce (vol. i.j, ;i few drops of liquid 
carmine, a dust of Marshall's Coralline Pepper, a pinch of salt, two 
tablespoonfuls of sherry or mushroom essence, one ounce of butter, three 
and a half whole raw eggs ; mix altogether into a smooth paste, rub 
through- a wire^sieve, add one ounce of grated Parmesan cheese and 
one large tablespoonful of thick cream. Put some White Chicken farce 
(see vol. i.) into a bag with a small plain pipe, and force it into rounds 




about the size of a sixpenny piece on a buttered saute pan. Curl some 
boiled sparghetti (see recipe) in ri^igs carefully over the farce, leaving 
a small open space in the centre, lightly press this on to the farce, fill 
up the centre with a little more farce, press this down with a wet finger, 
and place on it a little stamped-out round of truffle ; arrange a 
buttered paper on the top, stand the saute pan in a moderate oven for 
about ten minutes, when it should be removed from the oven and set 
aside till somewhat cool. Well butter a timbal mould, sprinkle the top 
part with a little finely-chopped truffle and arrange all round it the 





194 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

prepared rings, as shown in the engraving ; then fill up, by means of a 
forcing bag and pipe, with the hare mixture prepared as above, and 
place it in a stewpan on a fold of paper, pour in the pan sufficient 
boiling water to cover three-parts the depth of the mould, place the pan 
on the stove, watch the water reboil, then steam the timbal for forty 
to fifty minutes then turn out the contents on to a hot entree dish, and 
serve with sauce, prepared as below, round the dish. The remains of the 
hare can be utilised for soups, &c. 

Sauce for Cream of Hare. Put in a stewpan one and a half 
pints of Espagnol sauce ( vol. i.), one or twojtarge fresh mushrooms, 
two chopped eschalots, the bones from the hare chopped fine, a pinch of 
coralline pepper, a wineglassful of cooking port ; boil for about twenty 
minutes, keeping it skimmed while boiling, remove the bones, tammy, 
re warm, and use. 

Fillets of Hare Larded with. Cherries 
Filets de Lievre Piques aux Cerises 

Take a cleansed skinned hare, remove the back fillets and cut each 
through into long fillets about a quarter of an inch thick ; bat them out 
with a wet chopping-knife, trim them neatly, lard the top broad part 
with finely-cut lardons of fat bacon, trim these, and place the fillets in a 
buttered saute pan, cover them with a buttered paper ; put about two 
tablespoonfuls of good flavoured brown stock in the pan, and cook them 
in a moderate oven for about ten minutes ; then remove the paper, brush 
the fillets over with thin warm glaze, dish up alternately with cooked 
sliced tomatoes (vol. i.) on a border of red rice (see recipe) ; fill up the 
centre with a compote of cherries (see recipe), and serve with Irlandaise 
sauce (vol. i.) round the base for an entree for dinner. 



Fillets of Hare a la Due de Raguse 

Filets de Lidvre a la Dug de Raguse 

Take a skinned ana cleansed hare, and remove the back fillets from 
it ; place these on the table and cut them in slices about one-eighth of 
an inch thick and three and a half inches long ; bat them out with 
a wet chopping-knife, trim them into nice neat fillets, then steep them 
in warm butter, and season them with Marshall's Coralline Pepper, a little 
salt, finely-chopped herbs (basil, marjoram, thyme, bayleaf, and parsley), 
and over the top side of the fillets that are thus seasoned place a layer 
of farce, as below, about one-eighth -of an inch thick, using a forcing bag 



OF EXTRA RECIPES HOT ENTREES 195 

and pipe for the purpose ; smooth the farce over with a hot, wet knife, 
and brush it over with warm butter. Cut some cleansed and dried pork 
caul in square pieces, sufficiently large to hold a fillet of hare, wrap the 
fillets in these squares, then brush them over with whole beaten-up raw 
egg, dip them into freshly-made white breadcrumbs, bat each carefully 
with a palette knife, and make all the fillets as nearly as possible the 
same shape. When the fillets are ready to cook, put some boiling clarified 




butter (vol. i.) into a saute pan, place the fillets in it, fry them over a 
quick fire, turning them only once while cooking, for eight to ten 
minutes, when they should be a nice golden colour. Dish up the fillets en 
couronne on a border of hare farce (see recipe, chap, xviii.), place a com- 
pote of French plums in the centre, little thin shreds of French red chillies 
and capsicums and fresh sprigs of chervil, pour Raguse sauce round the 
base, and serve for an entree for dinner. 

Farce for Fillets of Hare A la Due de Raguse. Take about six 
ounces of meat from the hare, such as the trimmings from the fillets, 
chop it or pound it and rub it through a wire sieve, then mix it with 
one ounce of finely-chopped beef suet, a little salt and pepper, half an 
ounce of fresh breadcrumbs, and one whole raw egg. Mix up with a 
few drops of carmine, and use. 



Sauted Rabbit a la Carlton 

Lapereau Saute d la Carlton 

Take a young rabbit for this dish ; skin, wash, and dry it, and cut 
it up in joints; put two ounces of butter in a saucepan, with three 
ordinary sized onions cut up in little square pieces, two ounces of bacon 
similarly cut, and a few herbs, tied up, such as thyme, bayleaf, and 
parsley, and fry these altogether for about fifteen minutes ; then add a 
tablespoonful of flour and a dessertspoonful of tarragon or French vinegar, 
and about a pint of stock ; add the rabbit, and simmer gently on the 
stove for about one hour. Then remove the herbs, dish up in a pile, pour 

o 2 



196 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

over it the sauce in which it has been cooked, and sprinkle over that a 
tablespoonful of chopped lean ham or tongue and about a tablespoonful 
of picked and blanched parsley, and serve. 

Sauted Babbit a la Paysanne with Olives 
Lapin Saute d la Paysanne aiwa Olives 

Skin, cleanse, and cut the rabbit up in neat joints, season with 
coralline pepper and salt, and put it in a saute" pan with two table- 
spoonfuls of salad oil, three sliced onions, a bunch of herbs, such as 
thyme, parsley, and bayleaf, and three or four sprigs of tarragon and 
chervil if you have it. Fry together for about ten to fifteen minutes till 
a nice golden colour, shaking the pan occasionally ; then add six boned 
and filleted Christiania anchovies and two small glasses of sherry ; reduce 
this" to half the quantity, add a pint of Brown sauce (vol. i.), half an 
ounce of glaze, and boil together for about three-quarters of an hour, 
keeping it well skimmed while cooking. Remove the joints, tammy the 
sauce, and reboil the rabbit in the sauce ; then dish up on a border of 
potatoes (vol. i.) or fried crouton of bread, and garnish with a macedoine 
of vegetables, braised olives, picked and blanched tarragon and chervil 
arranged all over the joints. Serve very hot as an entree for dinner or 
luncheon. If the prepared macedoine is used, open the tin, stand it in 
the bain-marie until hot, then strain and use. 

Creams of Eabbit a l'Ambassadrice 

Cremes ile Lapereau it VAmbassadrice 

Lightly butter some horseshoe moulds and ornament them as in 
engraving with truffle, then fill up with the farce as below, using a 
forcing bag and large plain pipe for the purpose, make a little well in 



the centre of each with the finger, which should be occasionally dipped 
into hot water, and then fill up the spaces thus formed with cucumber 
peas (see recipe), a few shreds of truffle, and about half a teaspoon - 
ful of good clear chicken stock, which should be of the consistency of 
a jelly ; cover up the opening with a little more of the prepared farce, 



OF EXTRA RECIPES HOT ENTREES 197 

then smooth over with a hot wet knife, and place the moulds in a saute 
pan on a piece of paper ; pour boiling water or any light stock in the 
pan to cover the creams, then stand it on the stove and allow the 
liquor to reboil ; then draw the pan to the side of the stove and let the 
creams poach for fifteen minutes. When cooked take them up on a clean 
cloth and dish straight down the dish in two rows, on borders of farce 
or potato (vol. i.) formed by means of a bag and pipe ; garnish the 
centre with cucumber, pour the sauce, prepared as below, round the base 
of the dish and serve for an entree for dinner or luncheon. 

Farce for Creams A l'A.misassadrice. For ten to twelve persons 
take ten ounces of raw rabbit and pound it till quite smooth, then 
remove from the mortar and pound eight ounces of panard (vol. i.) 
with two tablespoonfuls of Bechamel sauce (vol. i.), a little salt and 
coralline pepper, one ounce of butter, and three eggs ; when this is well 
pounded add the meat and about six drops of Marshall's Liquid Carmine, 
work all into a smooth paste, rub through a fine wire sieve, add one and 
a half tablespoonfuls of cream, mix up well, and use. 

Cucumber for Creams a l'Ambassadrick. For garnishing the dish, 
take some peeled cucumber cut into olive shapes, cook till tender, mix 
with a little warm butter, a dust of castor sugar, and use. 

Ambassadrice Sauce for Creams of Rabbit. Make a pint of 
Veloute sauce (vol. i.), using the stock from the rabbit bones, season it 
with one ounce of grated Parmesan cheese, the juice of a lemon, and half 
a gill of cream ; colour to a very pale salmon colour with a lew drops of 
carmine, boil up, tammy and use. 

Croustade of Game a la Normande 
Croustade de Gtibier d la Normande 

Prepaid half a pound of short paste (vol. i.) and line a buttered 
croustade mould with it about one-eighth of an inch thick ; trim the edges 
of the paste neatly, then line it with a buttered paper, and fill up the 
inside with raw rice or any other dry grain, place it in a moderate oven 
for about twenty-five to thirty minutes, then remove the paper and rice ; 
return the croustade to the oven, and let it dry well inside. When ready 
to serve, remove the pegs which fasten the mould, and take the latter off 
the croustade, dish up, and fill up the centre with a ragout made from 
any kind of cold game (or poultry can be used if liked), adding to half 
a pound of the game one or two truffles, if you have them, cut in slices, four 
or five cooked button mushrooms, and a little Financiere may be used ; 
mix these ingredients into a good thick Salmis sauce, make hot in the 



198 



MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 



bain-marie, and then fill up the croustade ; garnish the edge of this with 
a puree of game or poultry livers (see liver farce for ' Turban a la 
Bonanza') and little fancy rings of paste, and then arrange some savoury 




custard (see recipe) on the top in the form of an inner ring, and serve 
hot with a little of the sauce round the base of the dish, and a little of 
the liver puree with a few of the paste rings at each end. 



Little Croustades of Game a la Bristol 
Petites Croustades tie Gibier a la Bristol 

Line some little fluted dariol moulds veiy thinly with short paste 
(vol. i.) about one-eighth of an inch thick, pressing this well into the 
shape of the moulds; trim off the edges neatly, and then line the 
insides with buttered paper ; fill up the papers with raw rice, and bake 
in a moderate oven for about forty minutes ; when cooked remove the 
rice and the papers from the paste cases, and put the latter back into 




the oven ; leave them to diy, and when ready to use very lightly brush 
over the outsides with raw white of egg that has been mixed up with a 
fork, using as little as possible ; then sprinkle over the cases finely- 
chopped parsley, and fill up the insides with a ragout of game, and 
arrange on the top of the ragout, by means of a forcing bag and rose 
pipe, a little liver farce (see recipe * Turban a la Bonanza'), then place 



OF EXTRA RECIPES HOT ENTREES 199 

round the edges of the croustades little rings made from the short paste 
and masked in the same way as the cases. Dish the cases on a hot dish 
on a dish-paper and serve. Use for an entree for dinner or luncheon. 

Ragout for Croustades a la Bristol. Take about half a pound of 
any remains of cooked cold game or poultry, remove the bones and skin 
from it, and cut the meat into dice shapes ; mix it with two or three 
cooked button mushrooms and truffle, then mix these into some reduced 
Salmis sauce (vol. i.) ; make hot in the bain-marie, and use. 



Duck a la Rosney 
Caneton a hi Rosney 

Take a cleansed duck trussed for roasting, rub it over with grease, 
and roast or bake it for twenty to thirty minutes, when it should be 
a nice golden colour ; when cooked, take it up and cut the breast into 
long neat fillets and the legs into small neat joints. Prepare a potato 
border (vol. i.), place it in the centre of an entree dish, and arrange the 
prepared pieces of the duck on it as shown in the engraving ; fill up 




the centre of the border with shreds of Spanish olives that have been 
boiled up in a little sherry, and sprinkle here and there a little finely- 
cut orange-peel that has been put in cold water, brought to the boil, 
then strained and rinsed in cold water ; pour entirely over the fillets 
some good Salmis sauce (vol. i.), and arrange between the fillets some 
tiny French red chillies. Serve hot for an entree for dinner or 
luncheon. Any remains of cold duck or goose can be prepared in a 
similar manner. 

Foie G-ras a la Chateau Dore 
Foie Gra* d la < 'hdteau Bore 

Take an opened tin of foie gras and stand it in the bain-marie till 
the contents are quite hot ; then, when ready to serve, turn it out on to 
a plate and cut it into portions, and dish it up as in engraving on a 
border of chicken or rabbit farce with a small round of fried bread in 



200 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

the centre ; garnish the foie gras with Financiere that has been warmed 
in the bain-marie and with hatelet skewers ; pour good Espagnol sauce 




(vol. i.) round the dish, then place some cooked button mushrooms at 
each end of the dish and serve hot for an entree for dinner party. 



Little Creams of Oysters a la Sieges 
Petit* Pahis d'Huitres d la Sieges 

Put two and a half dozen sauce oysters with their liquor into a stew- 
pan to get hot, but do not let them boil, then strain them, remove the 
beards, and pound the oysters till smooth with two ounces of raw 
whiting, six ounces of panard, two tablespoonfuls of thick Bechamel 
sauce (vol. i.), a dust of coralline pepper ; a little salt, then mix into 
a smooth paste with the strained juice of half a lemon, half a gill of 
thick cream and four large raw whites of eggs, then rub it through 
a fine wire sieve. Butter some little bomb moulds with cold butter, 
slightly sprinkle the top of each with a little raw chopped parsley, 
and by means of a forcing bag and pipe fill up the moulds with 
the mixture, knocking them on the table, that the mixture may take 
the shape of the moulds well ; place the moulds in a stewpan on a 
fold of paper, pour in boiling water to half the depth of the moulds, 
watch the water reboil, place the cover on the pan and let the contents 
steam for twenty minutes, then take up, turn out the little creams on 
to a hot dish, and serve with sauce prepared as below all over them. 

Sauce for little Creams of Oysters a la Sieges. Put into a 
stewpan one gill of white wine, a tablespoonful of lemon-juice, one large 
sliced onion, a bunch of herbs, six or eight peppercorns, the liquor and 
beards from the oysters, one pint of fish stock or water, the bones from 
the whiting, the juice of one lemon and a little salt, and bring it to the 
boil ; then simmer gently for half an hour, keeping well skimmed ; then 



OF EXTRA RECIPES HOT ENTREES 201 

strain and mix three-quarters of a pint of it on to one and a half ounces 
of flour that has been fried with two ounces of butter without browning, 
stir altogether till it boils, add a gill of cream, tammy and use. 

Cutlets of Oysters a la Creme 
Cotelettes d'Huitres d la Creme 

Put into a stewpan two and a half ounces of fine flour and two 
ounces of butter, and fry them together without discolouring, then mix 
into it half a pint of boiling oyster liquor and a wineglassful of white 
wine, and stir over the fire till it boils ; season with a dust of Marshall's 
Coralline Pepper, a pinch of salt, and four or five drops of lemon juice ; 
mix into it four raw yolks of eggs and stir again till it thickens, but do 
not let it boil, then wring it through the tammy. Put three and a half 
dozen small, or two and a half dozen large, oysters into a stewpan in their 
liquor, let this get hot, but do not let it boil ; strain it, remove the beards 
from the oysters, and cut the latter into little dice shapes ; add to these 



one or two finely-chopped truffles, mix it with the first preparation and 
put it aside till cold, then arrange it into small quantities on a floured 
table or slab, allowing about half a tablespoonful for each person ; roll 
each portion in flour, dip into whole beaten-up egg, and then into freshly- 
made white breadcrumbs, and form them into nice neat cutlet shapes. 
Put them into a frying basket and fry in clean boiling fat till a nice 
golden colour. When cooked place in the top of each a little stem of 
parsley, arrange a cutlet frill on these, dish them up on a potato border 
(vol. i.), as in engraving, garnish the centre with fried parsley, pour the 
sauce round the base, and serve for an entree for dinner or luncheon. 

Sauce for Oyster Cutlets a la Creme. Put the beards from the 
oysters into a stewpan with a wineglassful of white wine, one peeled and 
sliced onion, a bunch of herbs (thyme, parsley and bayleaf), six or eight 
peppercorns, and sufficient cold water to make .one pint of stock ; simmer 
for half an hour. Fry together, without discolouring, one and a half 
ounces of butter with two ounces of flour, mix into this a pint of the 



202 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

stock, add half a gill of cream, the juice of half a lemon, the liquor 
from the oysters, and a dust of coralline pepper and salt ; stir over the 
fire till it boils, tammy, and use after reboiling. 

Little Mousses of Salmon a la Nantaise 
Petites Mousses de Sanmon a la Nantaise 

Butter some little bomb moulds and ornament the tops in any pretty 
design with cut truffle, fill up the inside with a mixture prepared as 
below, using a forcing bag and plain pipe for the purpose, standing the 
moulds in others such as little bouche moulds in an upright position ; 
place them in a stewpan, surround them with boiling water to three 
parts the depth of the moulds, watch the water reboil, then draw the 
pan to the side of the stove and let the contents poach for fifteen to 
eighteen minutes ; then turn out on to a hot dish, pour round the sauce, 
prepared as below, and serve. 

Sauce for Mousses of Salmon. Put the bones and skin from 
the fish into a clean stewpan with two sliced onions, a bunch of herbs, 
a quarter-pint of white wine, the liquor and beards from the oysters, the 
juice of a lemon, five or six peppercorns, and a little salt and coralline 
pepper ; cover with cold water, bring it to the boil, skim it and simmer 
it gently on the side of the stove for about half an hour ; then mix 
three-quarters of a pint of it on to two ounces of butter and one and 
a half ounces of flour that have been fried together without browning, 
add to it twelve pounded sauce oysters, a quarter of a pint of single 
cream, and half an ounce of pounded live spawn ; stir till boiling, tammy, 
and use. 

Mousse Mixture for Salmon A la Nantaise. Pound half a 
pound of raw fresh salmon, that is free from skin and bone, till smooth, 
with a quarter of a pint of thick Tomato sauce (vol. i.), six raw bearded 
sauce oysters, half an ounce of pounded live spawn, a little salt, a dust 
of coralline pepper, an ounce of glaze, a few drops of carmine, one 
tablespoonful of thick Bechamel sauce (vol. i.), and three raw yolks 
of eggs ; then rub altogether carefully through a fine wire sieve, add four 
stiffly-whipped whites of eggs that have been seasoned with a little 
salt, put the mixture into a forcing bag with a plain pipe, and use as 
directed. 

Crayfish a la Pandore 
PJcrevisses a la Pandore 

Put a bottle of prepared crayfish bodies into a stewpan with some of 
the sauce prepared as below ; just Jbring it to the boil, then add a little 



OF EXTRA RECIPES HOT ENTREES 203 

sprinkling of finely chopped fresh green parsley that has been pressed 
dry, and turn out in the centre of an entree dish, on which has been 
arranged a border of plainly boiled rice (vol. i.), sprinkle over a little 
of coralline pepper, and hard-boiled yolk of egg that has been rubbed 
through a wire sieve. Serve for an entree for luncheon or dinner as a 
second-course dish or in the fish course. 

Sauce for Crayfish a la Paxdore. Put into a stewpan an ounce 
of butter with an ounce of flour and fry together without browning ; then 
mix in half a pint of new milk, one finely chopped eschalot, a dessert- 
spoonful of anchovy essence, a dust of coralline pepper, and the strained 
juice of a lemon ; boil up, wring through the tammy, rewarm in the 
bain-marie and use as directed. 

Little Croustades a la Cleveland 

Petites Croustades d In Cleveland 

Take some little fancy bouche moulds and thinly line them with puff 

paste (vol. i.) not quite a quarter of an inch thick, put a piece of buttered 

paper in each and fill them up with raw rice or any other dry grain ; 

place them on a baking-tin, and cook them in a moderate oven till crisp 



and a nice golden colour ; then remove the papers, and fill up the 
insides with a ragout of game ; cover this over with mushroom puree 
(vol. i.), and arrange little rounds of plainly-cooked tomatoes on the 
tops. Dish up the croustades as in engraving, on a dish-paper, and 
serve very hot for an entree for dinner. 

Ragout for Little Croustades a la Cleveland. Take some nice 
pieces of grouse or other game (any left from a previous meal can be 
used for the purpose), free them from skin and bone, and cut them up 
into little square pieces ; mix them with the same bulk of little pea 
quenelles, made from game, and moisten with good Espagnol sauce 
(vol. i.) ; warm up in the bain-marie, and use as instructed above. 

Little Croustades a la Nassau 
Petite* Croustades a la Nassau 

Line some little fluted bouche cups with a short paste (vol. i.) and 
press it well into the mould, so as to get a good impression ; cut out 



204 



MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 



some little rounds of paper and butter them on one side, then place 
inside the paste ; cook for about twenty minutes in a moderate oven ; 
remove the paper, have some blanched calf s or sheep's brains cut in neat 
slices about a quarter of an inch thick, put them in the cases and cover 
over with a good thick Veloute sauce (vol. i.) ; then take half a pound 
of lean veal or rabbit and three ounces of fat and lean bacon (raw meat 
would be best) and pound and pass through a sieve ; then mix it 
with two raw yolks of eggs, a saltspoonful of salt, a pinch of mignonette 




pepper, and a peeled and chopped eschalot. When mixed together, 
mask the little cases over with it by means of a hot wet knife (which 
will smooth the puree). Ornament round the edges of the cases with a 
little of the farce, using a forcing bag with a small plain pipe for the 
purpose; sprinkle each croustade with a little chopped lean ham or tongue, 
and on the centre place two strips of truffle across. Cook in the oven with 
a buttered paper over for about fifteen minutes. Dish on a napkin or 
paper, and serve hot for a dinner or luncheon entree. 



Little Croustades a la Venitienne 
Petites Crcnistades d la Venitienne 

Line some little croustade moulds with short paste (vol. i. page 39), 
trim off the edges evenly and well prick the bottom of the paste to 




prevent it blistering ; place inside each a lightly-buttered paper, fill up 
with any dry grain, and bake in a moderate oven till the cases are a 
nice golden colour, then remove the papers and partly fill the cases with 



OF EXTRA RECIPES HOT ENTREES 



2 05 



a puree of spinach (vol. i. page 262), using a forcing bag and rose pipe 
for the purpose ; arrange on the top of this a slice of beef marrow (that 
has been blanched in cold water with a little salt, and put into cold 
water till wanted, then cut into slices and rewarmed in boiling water, 
and lightly brushed over with a little warm glaze), and cover this with 
ham puree, using a forcing bag and pipe for the purpose. Place a sprig 
of parsley in the top of each, and serve on a dish-paper, as in engraving, 
very hot, for a second-course dish or as an entree for a few people. 

Ham Puree for Croustades a la Vemtienne. Take four ounces 
of lean cooked ham, two hard-boiled yolks of eggs, one tablespoonful of 
thick Bechamel sauce (vol. i.), a few drops of liquid carmine, a dust of 
coralline pepper, and an ounce of butter ; pound all together, rub through 
a fine sieve, rewarm, and use. 

Little Croustades a Tltalienne 
Petites Crovstadex <1 Vita lie') me 

Put half a pound of Carolina rice in a stewpan with sufficient cold 
water to cover it ; bring to the boil, then strain off the water, rinse the 
rice in cold water, and put it back into the stewpan ; pour over it the 
puree of two raw tomatoes, an ounce and a half of butter, one and a half 
pints of chicken, veal, or rabbit stock that is lightly coloured with 
carmine ; stand the pan on the stove, and when the contents boil place 
a buttered paper over, and let them cook for about one hour, when the 
rice should be quite tender and nearly dry. Butter some little dariol 




moulds and fill them with the prepared rice ; set them aside till cold 
and firm, then turn out of the moulds, roll them in fine flour and 
then into whole beaten-up raw egg and then freshly-made white bread- 
crumbs, and with a plain round cutter make an incision about one-eighth 
of an inch deep in the top of each croustade, leaving a rim about a 
quarter of an inch wide ; place them in a frying basket, put them in 
boiling fat, and fry them till a pretty golden colour ; then remove the 
tops, scoop out the centres, and when ready to serve fill them, using a 



206 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

forcing bag with a large plain pipe for the purpose, with a ragout of 
any nice cooked meat, either veal, rabbit, chicken, sweetbread, or calf's 
brains, and a little truffle and 'mushroom ; mix this with thick creamy 
Veloute sauce (vol. i.). When the croustades are full have two or three 
whites of eggs whipped stiff, with a pinch of salt, and cover up the 
tops of the croustades (as in engraving) with it, using a forcing bag and 
large rose pipe for the purpose ; then sprinkle with a little blanched 
and finely-chopped pistachio, and put into the oven to dry for six to eight 
minutes, when they should be a pale fawn colour. Dish up in a 
circle, and serve plainly or with Tomato butter (vol. i.) round the base 
as an entree for dinner. 



Crepinettes of Duck with Peas 
Crepinettes de Caneton mix Petits Pois 

Take half a pound of cold duck (any left from a previous meal will 
do for the purpose), cut it up into Julienne shreds about an inch long ; 
similarly cut six or eight cooked button mushrooms and two or three 
truffles. Put into a stewpan one large chopped eschalot, a teaspoonful 
of Liebig Company's Extract of Meat, one and a half gill of Brown 
sauce (vol. i.), one washed and chopped fresh mushroom, and a wine- 
glassful of sherry ; reduce to half the quantity, then add the cut duck, 
&c, to it and set aside on ice till cold ; divide into quantities of about a 




dessertspoonful each and wrap each in a small square cleansed and dried 
piece of pork caul, folding the caul well over the ends to keep the mix- 
ture in ; dip each into finely-sifted flour and into whole beaten-up raw 
egg twice, and fry them in clean boiling fat till a nice golden colour. 
Then take up and drain, sprinkle over some with raw chopped green 
parsley and some with finely-chopped lean cooked ham or tongue ; dish 
them up on a border of potato, with peas in the centre, and a good 
Espagnol sauce (vol. i.) round the base, and serve for an entree for 
dinner or luncheon. 



OF EXTRA RECIPES HOT ENTREES 207 

Orepinettes a la Belgrave 
Crepinettes a la 'Belgrave 

Pound in a mortar till smooth one pound of raw rabbit, veal, or 
chicken which is free from skin and bone, a quarter-pound of fresh raw 
pork, bacon, or spiced beef ; then rub the mixture through a wire sieve, 
and mix with it in a basin two ounces of pate de foie gras (that has also 
been passed through a sieve), add one very finely-chopped eschalot, a 
little salt and mignonette pepper, and one and a half raw yolks of eggs ; 
divide this into portions about the size of a very small egg, and roll each 
piece with the hand into cylinder shape, using a little flour for the pur- 
pose ; then roll them into raw white of egg, and garnish each in any 
pretty design with cut truffle or cooked ham or tongue. Well wash some 
pork caul, dry it in a clean cloth, and cut it in little square pieces suf- 
ficiently large to cover a roll of meat ; wrap each roll in the caul, and 
place them in a saute pan in boiling clarified butter, and fry for about 
ten minutes over a moderate fire (or put in a quick oven with a greased 
paper over) till they are a pretty golden colour. Dish up on a border 
of spinach or mushroom puree, en couronne, and serve with Piquant 
sauce (vol. i.) round the dish. 

Orepinettes a la Parisienne 
Crepmettes d I" Parisienne 

Take half a pound of cooked white meat (either rabbit, chicken, or 
pheasant) and cut it into thin slices about a quarter of an inch long ; 
also take two ounces of cooked tongue or ham, two or three truffles, the 
same quantity of button mushrooms, and one and a half dozen raw 



bearded oysters cut these up in small pieces, then mix them altogether 
and put them into the sauce prepared as below, and set them aside till 
cold. Wrap about a teaspoonful of the mixture in little pieces of pork 
caul, form them into flat oval shapes, dip each into fine flour, then into 
whole beaten-up raw egg and freshly-made breadcrumbs ; drop them 



208 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

into clean boiling fat, and fiy them till a nice golden colour ; then take 
them up on a pastry-vack. Prepare a crouton of bread, three and a half 
inches in diameter and about two and a half inches high, and fry it in 
clean boiling fat till a nice golden colour ; place it on a dish on a dish- 
paper, arrange some of the crepinettes round it, then pile on top of it 
some puree of potato (vol. i.), and place the remainder of the crepinettes 
round this, resting them against the potato, as in the engraving ; garnish 
the dish with fried parsley, and serve very hot for an entree for dinner 
or luncheon. 

Sauce for GRfiPLNKlTJffi A la Pakisiknnk. Put the liquor and 
beards from the oysters into a stewpan with a quarter-pint of white 
wine ; just bring it to the boil, then strain and mix with the strained 
juice of a lemon. Put two ounces of butter and the same quantity of 
flour into a stewpan and fry together without browning ; mix with it 
half a pint of the prepared liquor, to which add a little cream if there is 
not sufficient to make the quantity ; stir together till boiling, then add 
two raw yolks of eggs and stir again over the fire till the sauce thickens ; 
season with a little salt and cayenne, tammy, and use as directed above. 



Crepinettes a la Villageoise 
Crepinettes a la Villageoise 

Take one nice fresh sweetbread and put it into a stewpan with a 
little salt and sufficient cold water to cover it, bring this to the boil, 
strain it and rinse the sweetbread in cold water ; put it back into a stew- 
pan. cover it with stock, and boil it gently for about one hour ; then take 
it up and cut it into neat slices, season these with a little strained lemon 
juice and finely-chopped parsley, and on the top of each spread about a 




teaspoonful of the ragout that is prepared as below. Then wrap up each 
fillet in a piece of pork caul, dip them twice into fine flour, and then into 
whole beaten-up raw egg, and fry in clean boiling fat till a pretty golden 
colour ; then remove from the fat and dish up on a hot dish, as in en- 
graving, on fried parsley, and serve at once for an entree for dinner or 
luncheon. 



OF EXTEA RECIPES HOT ENTREES 209 

Ragout for Crepinettes A la Villageoise. Remove the beards 
from one and a half dozen large sauce oysters and cut the oysters into 
strips, mix with them one or two finely-shredded truffles and some marrow 
that has been taken from a fresh beef bone and blanched ; mix it with 
sauce prepared as below, leave till cool, then use. For the sauce, take 
the beards and liquor from the oysters and put them into a stewpan 
with a wineglassful of white wine, a sliced onion, and a bunch of herbs 
(thyme, parsley, and bayleaf) ; boil it down to about a wineglassful, then 
strain it off and put it into a stewpan with one and a half ounces of 
glaze and a tablespoonful of reduced Espagnol sauce (vol. i.) ; boil up 
altogether for about five minutes, and then add the ingredients for the 
ragout. 

Kromeskies a la Nemotir 
Krome8kie8 d la Nemov/r 

Take the marrow from a large beef bone, blanch it and cut it up in 
little square pieces, then cut up similarly about the same amount of 
nicely cooked meat, such as chicken or any other poultry, and one or 
two truffles. Prepare some good sauce as below, put the cut in- 
gredients into it and set aside till cold ; then take portions (about a 
small teaspoonful) and roll up into balls, cover these with Mushroom 
puree (vol. i.), then roll each up in a little piece of pork caul (which 
has been put in water with a little salt, washed well, and then carefully 
dried in a clean cloth), dip each into frying batter (vol. i.), and drop 
separately into clean boiling fat and fry till a nice golden colour, keep- 
ing the kromeskies constantly turned about in the fat with a slice ; 
when cooked take up on to a pastry-rack to drain, then dish up on a 
hot dish on a paper, garnish with fried parsley (vol. i), and serve for an 
entree for dinner or luncheon. They should be served directly they 
are fried so that the batter cases may be perfectly crisp. 

Sauce for Kromeskies a la Nemoub. Take one gill of Espagnol 
sauce (vol. i.), a teaspoonful of Bovril, one finely-chopped eschalot, and 
a teaspoonful of finely-chopped raw parsley ; boil together for ten 
minutes, and use when cooling. 

Kromeskies a la Sultan 
Kromeskies d hi Sultan 

Take four or five small pigs' feet, and well cleanse them by putting 
them in a stewpan with sufficient cold water to cover them and just 
bring to the boil, then strain them and rinse them well in cold water ; 

P 



210 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

then return them to the stewpan, cover with cold water, season with a 
little salt, place the pan on the stove, reboil, remove the scum, cover 
the pan, and simmer the contents for three to four hours. When the feet 
have split, take them up and leave till somewhat cool, then remove all 
the bones, fold up the meat neatly and put to press between two plates 
till quite cold ; then cut up into little strips, mix them with two or three 
cooked button mushrooms and one or two truffles cut in a similar way. 
Mix these ingredients into the puree prepared as below, divide the mix- 
ture into portions of about a dessertspoonful, wrap each portion up in 
a very thin piece of dry pork caul, dip them into frying batter (see 
vol. i.), drop them separately into sufficient boiling fat to cover them, and 
fry them till a pretty golden colour, turning them about while frying 
that they may become the same colour all over. Take them up with a 
slice, drain them on a pastry-rack, dish them up on a paper or napkin 
on a hot dish, garnish with crisply-fried green parsley (see vol. i.), and 
serve while quite hot and crisp for an entree for dinner or luncheon. 

Puree for Kromeskies a la SULTAN. Take six ounces of any cold 
cooked meat, such as rabbit, chicken, or pheasant, pound it with two 
tablespoonfuls of thick Bechamel sauce (vol. i.), an ounce of glaze, a 
saltspoonful of Marshall's Coralline Pepper, a pinch of salt, the strained 
juice of a lemon, and two tablespoonfuls of thick cream; rub through a 
hair sieve, then add one finely-chopped eschalot, two raw yolks of eggs, 
an ounce of grated Parmesan cheese, and a teaspoonful of French mustard ; 
mix up together, and use. 

Beignets a la Montgardor 
Beignets d hi Montgardor 

Put into a stewpan half a pint of water, four ounces of butter, and 
a pinch of salt and Marshall's Coralline Pepper, bring this to the boil ; 
then mix into it five ounces of fine flour that has been rubbed through 
a fine sieve, let it cook for ten minutes, giving it an occasional stir. 
When cooked, remove from the fire, let the mixture cool, then mix in by 
degrees until it presents a creamy appearance four ounces of very finely- 
chopped cooked rabbit or chicken, and three ounces of grated Parmesan 
cheese ; put this mixture into a forcing bag with a large plain pipe, and 
force the mixture out in pieces about the size of a walnut into clean hot 
fat, and fry till a pretty golden colour. Then take up with a slice, 
sprinkle with a little finely-chopped green parsley, and dish up on a 
hot dish on a dish-paper or napkin. Serve for an entree for dinner or 
luncheon. 



OF EXTRA RECIPES HOT ENTREES 211 

Souffle of Ham (or Tongue) 
Souffle de Jambon (pit Langue) 

Put three and a half ounces of flour into a stewpan with three 
ounces of butter, a dust of Marshall's Coralline Pepper, about six drops 
of carmine, a saltspoonful of salt, and four raw yolks of eggs ; mix this 
by degrees with three-quarters of a pint of milk and the strained juice 
of a lemon and one finely-chopped eschalot ; when smooth stir over the 
fire with a wooden spoon till it boils, add six tablespoonfuls of finely- 
chopped lean cooked ham or tongue ; put a pinch of salt with six whites 
of eggs, whip them very stiff, and mix this lightly with the above 
mixture. Well butter a pie or souffle dish, place a band of well-buttered 
paper round it, standing about five or six inches above it, pour in the 
souffle mixture, sprinkle the top with a few browned breadcrumbs ; break 
an ounce of butter into pieces, place them here and there on the top of 
the souffle, bake in a moderate oven for about forty minutes, remove 
the paper, fold a napkin round the souffle dish ; serve on a dish-paper 
with Veloute (vol. i.) or Capsicum sauce in a sauce-boat. Care must be 
taken with the souffle, when it begins to colour in the oven a piece of 
wetted paper should be laid over the band round the tin that it may 
not get too brown. 

Little Hams a la Chasseur 
Petits Jambonneaux a la Chasseur 

Lightly butter some little ham moulds and fill them by means of a 
forcing bag and plain pipe with a farce (see ' Creams of Rabbit a l'Am- 
bassadrice'), smooth the farce over with a wet warm knife, and place 
the moulds in a saute pan on a fold of kitchen paper ; put a piece of 




buttered paper on the top, and when ready to cook cover with boiling 
light stock; watch the stock reboil, then cover the pan, and let it 
remain on the edge of the stove to poach for about fifteen minutes. 
When cooked, turn the creams out of the moulds, arrange a little strip 
of truffle in the end of each to imitate the bone, and dish them up on a 

2 



212 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

potato border (vol. i.), as in engraving ; garnish the centre with peas or 
any other nicely cooked vegetable ; pour l'Ambassadrice sauce over the 
creams, and serve for a hot entree. 



Little Tongues a la Perigord 
Petites Langues d la Perigord 

Pound one pound of raw rabbit, veal, or chicken with half a pound 
of fresh fat and lean pork or ham until smooth, then pound a quarter- 
pound of Panard (vol. i.), add the meat and mix in one large tablespoon- 
ful of thick Bechamel sauce (vol. i.) ; rub this mixture through a fine 
wire sieve, put it in a basin, add four raw yolks of eggs and a pinch of 
salt and Marshall's Coralline Pepper ; add to it two ounces of chopped 
lean ham or tongue, two truffles, four finely-chopped button mushrooms, 
and two tablespoonfuls of liver puree (see ' Turban a la Bonanza ')'. 
Butter some little tongue moulds, and by means of a forcing bag with 
a plain pipe fill them with the mixture, place them in a saute pan, 
sprinkle over them a little sherry, cover over with a buttered paper, and 
cook them in a moderate oven for about fifteen minutes ; keep them 
well basted with sherry while cooking. When cooked turn out of the 
moulds, dish them on a border of potatoes, in the centre of which is 
placed a fried crouton of bread ; garnish with a puree of potatoes 
(vol. i.), and serve with Perigord sauce over (vol. i. page 22), and use for 
an entree for dinner. A hatelet skewer stuck in the crouton would 
improve tbe appearance of the dish. 

Little Creams of Asparagus a la Montr euil 
Petits Pains dAsperges a la Montreuil 

Remove the meat from a young white chicken or rabbit, free it from 
skin and bone, and pound it till perfectly smooth with one ounce of 
butter. Plainly boil half a pound of asparagus till tender, using only 




the eatable part of the vegetable, and press the water carefully from it ; 
then pound it with three tablespoonfuls of thick Bechamel sauce (vol. i.), 
season with a dust of cayenne pepper and a little salt, and mix to it the 



OF EXTRA RECIPES HOT ENTREES 213 

pounded chicken, the strained juice of a lemon, a tablespoonful of thick 
cream, three raw whites of eggs and two raw yolks; when these are 
well mixed, rub all though a fine wire sieve, put into a forcing bag with 
a plain pipe, and force out into little buttered bomb moulds that are 
ornamented all over with rounds of truffle and cooked tongue ; knock 
the moulds on the table so that the mixture falls well into the shapes ; 
then place them in a stewpan on a piece of paper, and partly cover them 
with boiling water ; put the stewpan on the stove and watch the water 
reboil, then draw the pan to the side of the stove for about fifteen 
minutes, when the creams should feel firm to the touch. When cooked 
turn out, arrange on the dish as in engraving, and serve with the sauce 
prepared as below round the base, and with cooked asparagus peas (see 
recipe) in the centre that have been mixed with a little warm butter and 
a few drops of lemon juice. 

Sauce for Little Creams of Asparagus a la Montreuil. Put-, 
the bones and skin of the chicken into a stewpan with a bunch of herbs, 
one or two sliced onions, six or eight peppercorns, two wineglassfuls of 
white wine, any stalks from the asparagus, the juice of one lemon, a 
pinch of salt, and enough cold water to cover 1 lie bones; put the pan on 
the stove, bring the contents to the boil, skim, and boil steadily for about 
one hour, then strain and free from fat. Put into another stewpan one 
and a half ounces of butter, and one ounce of the best arrowroot, mix 
these together till smooth, then add three-quarters of a pint of the 
liquor from the bones, stir together till it boils, then wring through a 
clean tammy, and use. 

Little Cases a la Florence 
Petites Oaisses d la Florence 

Remove the fish from a nice fresh dried haddock, and rub it through 
a coarse wire sieve, then add to each half-pound the puree of four 



m 




Christiania anchovies, two ounces of grated Gruyere cheese, and a 
quarter of a pint of cream, a dust of coralline pepper, and two ounces 
of warm butter. Mix up together in a basin, and put it in a forcing bag 



214 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

with a plain pipe and three-parts fill some little china cases with it; 
moisten the top of each with a little cream, fill up the cases, by means 
of a forcing bag and large rose pipe, with whipped white of egg that is 
seasoned with a pinch of salt, a dust of coralline pepper and grated 
Parmesan cheese ; place them on a baking-tin in the oven for about 
fifteen minutes ; take up the cases and serve on a hot dish on a paper, 
and use for an entree or second-course dish. 



Little Baskets a la Toulouse 
Petites Corbeilles a la Toulouse 

Thinly line both portions of some little basket moulds with short 
paste, as for pies (vol. i.), trim the edges and line them with buttered 
papers ; fill them up with raw rice, and bake in a moderate oven till a 
nice golden colour ; then remove the rice and return the cases to the 
oven to dry ; join the two parts together with a little flour that is mixed 




with raw white of egg and coloured with saffron, and dry in the oven, 
and just before serving brush the outside of the basket over with a little 
raw white of egg, and sprinkle with finely-chopped parsley. Prepare a 
ragout as below, and fill the baskets with it; sprinkle lightly with 
coralline pepper, dish up on a hot dish-paper, and serve at once. 

Kagout for Little Baskets a la Toulouse. Finely slice some 
pieces of cooked chicken, sweetbread, and calves' brains, a little truffle 
and cooked button mushrooms ; mix with a good thick Supreme sauce 
(vol. i.), r make hot in the bain-marie, and use. 

Timbal a la Saint Agnes 
Timbale & la Saint Agnes 

Butter a timbal mouldjand ornament it with star-cut shapes of 
tongue and truffle, pressing these well to the side of the mould ; fill 
up the inside with farce prepared as below, and knock the mould well 
on the table so that the mixture sinks well into the shape ; stand the 
mould in a stewpan on a fold of paper, surround it with boiling water to 



OF EXTRA RECIPES HOT ENTRIES 215 

about three-parts the depth of the mould, watch the water reboil, place 
the cover on the pan, and let the contents poach for thirty-five to forty 




minutes ; then take up, turn out the timbal on to a hot entree dish, 
pour the prepared sauce round and serve at once while quite hot. 

Farce for Timbal a la St. Agnes. Take three-quarters of a pound 
of raw chicken or rabbit that is free from skin and bone, and pound it 
till smooth ; then mix it with six ounces of pounded panard (vol. i.), add 
twelve sauce oysters, one and a half gills of cucumber puree prepared as 
below, one ounce of butter, a little pepper and salt, and three and a half 
whole raw eggs ; mix together till of a creamy consistency, then add two 
tablespoonfuls of thick cream, colour with a very little sap green, rub 
altogether through a clean wire sieve, put into a forcing-bag with a 
large plain pipe, and use as directed above. 

Sauce for Timbal a la St. Agnes. Take one and a half pints of 
good clear stock, the cleansed and chopped bones from the fowl, two 
wineglasses of sherry and two ditto of white wine ; bring this to the 
boil, simmer it for half an hour, then mix it on to one ounce of arrow- 
root (that has been mixed till smooth with a little of the same gravy), 
add an ounce of good glaze, and a dust of castor sugar; stir till it boils, 
tammy, add two or three cooked sliced truffles and button mushrooms, 
bring again to the boil, and use. 

CUCUMBER Puree for Timbal a la St. Agnes. Peel a cucumber, 
remove the seeds, and cut it into rough pieces, put these into a stew- 
pan with some cold water and a pinch of salt ; bring to the boil and 
simmer till tender, then strain and press from the water and rub through 
a hair sieve, and use. 

Turban a la Jessamine 
Turban d la Jessamine 

Butter a turban mould well and line it with a well-buttered piece of 
kitchen paper, then arrange all over it farced rings of cucumber pre- 
pared as below, and by means of a large forcing bag with a plain pipe 



216 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

fill up the inside with meat farce as below ; knock the mould well down 
on the table, so that the farce sinks close to the garnish ; place the 
turban in a stewpan on a fold of paper, surround the mould to about 
three-parts its depth with boiling water, and put the pan on the fire, 
watch the water reboil, then draw the pan aside and poach the turban 




for half an hour. Then take up, and turn it out on to a paste bottom 
(vol. i. page 40) or crouton, and serve Supreme sauce (vol. i.) round the 
dish ; fill up the centre with cooked asparagus points prepared as 
below, or cooked artichoke bottoms cut into small square pieces. Serve 
at once for an entree for dinner party or luncheon. 

Farce for Turban A la Jessamine. Take half a pound of raw 
white meat, such as chicken or rabbit, free it from bone and skin and 
pound it till smooth ; then pound four ounces of panard with two table- 
spoonfuls of thick Bechamel sauce and one ounce of butter, season with 
a little salt and coralline pepper, mix well together; then add three 
whole raw eggs and one tablespoonful of cream, and rub the whole 
through a fine wire sieve, mix with two or three finely-chopped truffles, 
and use. 

Asparagus for Turban A la Jessamine. Take some cleansed 
asparagus, and cut it in lengths of about one inch, cook it till tender, 
then drain and mix with some boiling sauce as below ; the prepared 
asparagus can be used if liked. For the sauce, take one and a half gills 
of good clean consomme, bring it to the boil, with one finely-chopped 
eschalot ; then stir into it not quite half an ounce of arrowroot that is 
mixed with a wineglass of cooking sherry, stir till boiling, then use. 

Cucumber for Turban A la Jessamine. Cut some raw fresh cu- 
cumber into slices about a quarter of an inch thick, stamp out into 
rings, put into a pan with cold water seasoned with salt, boil till tender, 
then take up and drain and place in a buttered saute pan ; then, with a 
forcing bag and small plain pipe, fill the spaces with some of the farce, 
press well to the cucumber; garnish the farce alternately with little 
stamped-out rounds of French red chilli and truffle, place a buttered 
paper over and cover with boiling water, put the pan on the stove, watch 
the water reboil, draw aside and poach for five minutes, take up on a 
hair sieve to drain, and then use. 



OF EXTRA RECIPES HOT ENTREES 



217 



Little Bombs a la Beatrice 
Petites Bombes d I" Beatrice 

Butter some little bomb or dariol moulds, and line them with white 
farce (vol. i. page 36), using a forcing bag and large plain pipe for 
the purpose ; make a little well in the centre of each with the finger 
(which should be occasionally dipped in warm water), working the farce 
round the mould. Nearly fill the spaces thus formed with tendons from 
a calf's foot (see recipe, ' Tendons in Little Cases a l'Estragon ') ; cover 
this over with a little more farce, smooth over the top of each with a 
wet warm knife, place the moulds in a pan on a fold of paper, and 




surround them with boiling water to three-parts the depth of the moulds. 
Watch the water reboil, then draw the pan to the side of the stove, and 
let the contents steam for about twenty minutes. Then turn them out, 
roll in fine sifted flour, dip each in whole beaten-up raw egg, and 
then into freshly-made white breadcrumbs, and fry them in clean boiling 
fat till a nice golden colour. Dish them up on a border of farce or 
potato, pour Veloute sauce round them, and sprinkle on each a little 
lobster coral ; place peas, or cucumber, or a puree of spinach in the 
centre, garnish with little sprigs of chervil, and serve for an entree. 

Jubilee Quenelles 
(Quenelles d 1" JubiU 

Prepare a farce as in vol. i. page 109, and with it fill some quenelle 
moulds that have been buttered ; make a well in the centre of each, and 




put in the opening a small teaspoonful of garnish as below ; cover over 
with a little more of the farce, smooth over with a hot wet knife, and 
poach in boiling water for fifteen minutes. Turn out on a cloth and 



218 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

dish up on a border of potato or farce as shown in the engraving, cover 
with Veloute sauce (vol. i.), and garnish the top of each quenelle with a 
little crown-shaped quenelle coloured partly with carmine and garnished 
with cut truffle. At the corners of the dish arrange some cooked peas 
or other vegetable. 

Garnish for Jubilee Quenelles. Take some cooked pea-shaped 
quenelles with the same amount of cooked cucumber peas (see recipe), 
a few little pieces of truffle and cooked button mushroom, and glaze. 

Plovers' Eggs a la Marie 
(Evfs de Pluviers d la Marie 

Boil some plovers' eggs for seven minutes, then remove the shell, 
and place each egg on a cooked hot artichoke bottom ; pour over them 
some sauce prepared as below, sufficient to mask the eggs, arrange 
these on a hot dish on a straight border of potato, forced through a 
forcing bag with large rose pipe, and pour the rest of the sauce round 
the dish, and serve while quite hot for a second course or entree dish. 

Sauce for Plovers' Eggs A la Marie. Take the pulp of three 
large tomatoes, one ounce of glaze, a quarter-pint of chicken stock, the 
strained juice of a lemon, one finely-chopped eschalot, and a dust of 
coralline pepper and salt; boil up together, mix on to an ounce of 
butter that is mixed with half an ounce of arrowroot ; stir till boiling, 
add half a wineglassful of sherry, a few drops of carmine, tammy, 
and use. 



OF EXTRA RECIPES COLD ENTREES 



219 



CHAPTER VI 

COLD ENTREES 

(See also Chapters IV, VII, and XIV) 

Outlets of Lamb a la Chatelaine 
Cotelettes d'Agneau a la. Chatelaine 

Take a neck of lamb and cut as many cutlets from it as possible, bat 
them out with a cold wetted chopping-knife, and remove any unnecessary 
fat and skin, then season with pepper and salt and put them in a buttered 
saute pan, and saute* them on one side for two or three minutes ; then put 
them to press till cold. Prepare a white farce thus : Pound till smooth 
eight ounces of meat, either veal, rabbit, or chicken, which has been cut 
up small ; then pound four ounces of Panard (vol. i.) and mix with the 
pounded meat ; add half an ounce of butter and two tablespoonfuls of 




thick Soubise sauce (vol. i.) ; season with a little white pepper and salt, 
mix till quite smooth with three raw yolks of eggs, then pass through a 
wire sieve. When the cutlets are cold trim them if necessary, and then 
mask the unsauted side with the farce ; smooth this over with a wet 
hot knife and put them, with the farced side uppermost, into a buttered 
saute pan ; place a buttered paper over, and put in the oven for twelve to 
fifteen minutes. When the farce is set remove from the oven', and put the 
cutlets aside to get cool ; then mask them with white Chaudfroid sauce 



220 



MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 



(vol. i.) and ornament with truffle as in engraving, setting this with a 
little aspic jelly. Dish the cutlets on a border of aspic jelly or rice 
(vol. i. page 32) ; place a wax figure or fried crouton of bread in the 
centre to rest the cutlets against, and garnish with chopped aspic jelly 
and a cold compote of French plums. 

Lamb Cutlets in Chaudfroid 

Cotelettes d'Agneau en Chaudfroid 

Roast a neck of lamb or mutton and put it away till cold, then cut 
it up into neat cutlets and mask them over with brown and white 
Chaudfroid (vol. i.) ; leave till set, then pour over them a little liquid aspic 




jelly, set aside till quite cold, and then dish on a bed of chopped aspic 
and garnish at intervals with cooked artichoke bottoms, raw tomatoes, 
and any other nice cooked vegetable ; place a cutlet frill on the top of 
each cutlet if liked and serve as a cold entree or for a cold collation. 



Lamb Outlets a l'Espagne 
Cotelettes d'Agneau d l'Espagne 

Trim the best end of a neck of lamb, and braise for an hour 
(vol. i.) ; when cooked take up the lamb and put it to press, and when 




cold cut it into neat cutlets and mask these with Chaudfroid sauce, as 
below ; then ornament each cutlet" with little rings of green and white 



OF EXTRA EECIPES COLD ENTREES 221 

Mayonnaise aspic (see recipe), as shown in engraving, and dish up the 
cutlets on a border of rice, resting them against a crouton, which should 
be stood upright in the centre of the border. Place in the centre some 
cooked cut-up artichoke bottoms and raw ripe tomatoes cut in little dice 
shapes, or other salad may be used ; garnish with chopped aspic jelly, 
place frills on each of the bones if liked, and serve for an entree or 
for ball supper. 

Chaudfkoid for Cutlets a l'Espagne. Take three-quarters of a 
pint of aspic jelly, one wineglassful of sherry, one ounce of glaze, and two 
tablespoonfuls of Tomato sauce (vol. i.) ; boil these together till reduced 
one-quarter part, keeping well skimmed ; then tammy, add a tea- 
spoonful of tarragon vinegar, mix together, and use. 

Cutlets of Lamb a la Ratisbon 
Cotelettes d'Agnemi d la Batisbon 

Trim a neck of lamb neatly for braising, and tie it up with string ; 
put it in a stewpan that is well buttered at the bottom, with a few 
slices of cleansed carrot, onion, celery, and turnip, bayleaf, thyme, parsley, 
and a few peppercorns, placing the meat on top of these. Cover the 
meat over with a piece of buttered paper, and put the cover on the pan 
and fry for about fifteen minutes ; then add a quarter of a pint of good 




stock and place the stewpan in the oven for about one hour, keeping it 
braising gently and basting it frequently, and adding a little more stock 
occasionally as that in the pan reduces. When cooked take it up and 
put it to press between two plates, and when cold cut it into neat cutlets 
and mask each over with brown Chaudfroid sauce (vol. i.), then ornament 
each cutlet with three or four very finely-cut strips of hard-boiled white 
of egg, cut in about two-and-a-half inch lengths ; arrange these like 



222 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY ROOK 

little branches on the cutlets, and attach to the egg a few little sprigs 
of picked chervil ; make little dots here and there on the chervil with 
lobster coral garnish, and put a little aspic over each cutlet to set 
the garnish ; trim the cutlets round neatly and dish them up on a 
border of rice (vol. i.) about one inch deep, and in the centre of the 
border place a roll of rice, prepared in the same way, to stand the 
cutlets against. Put some very finely-chopped aspic jelly into a forcing 
bag with a small plain pipe, and between each cutlet force out a little 
of the jelly, which will give a very pretty finish to the dish, and also 
keep the cutlets from falling. Arrange some chopped aspic jelly on the 
top, garnish it with some nice long sprigs of tarragon and chervil, place 
little blocks of jelly round the edge of the rice border, and through the 
centre of the rice block stick a long hatelet skewer on which five or six 
cooked artichoke bottoms have been arranged that have been seasoned 
with a little salad oil and tarragon vinegar, also any nice cold cooked 
vegetables, such as macedoine, that are seasoned with a little oil and 
tarragon vinegar. Serve for an entree or any cold collation. 



Mutton Outlets in Timbal a la Francaise 
Cotelettes de Mouton en Timbale d la Francaise 

Remove all the unnecessary skin and bone from a small neck of lamb, 
and tie up the meat with string to keep it in good shape. Put in a 
stewpan about one ounce of butter, a few slices of cleansed carrot, onion, 
turnip, celery, leek, a bunch of herbs, six or eight peppercorns, and 
three or four cloves ; place the meat on the top of the vegetables, put a 
piece of buttered paper over it, cover the pan, then put it on the stove, 




and fry the contents for fifteen to twenty minutes ; add two wineglassfuls 
of sherry, recover the pan, place it in the oven, and allow the meat to 
braise for one hour, keeping it occasionally basted, and adding about a 
pint of stock to it by degrees. Remove the meat when cooked, and put 
it to press till cold; cut it in neat cutlet shapes, and place them in a 
dish or tin ; mask each piece over with brown Chaudfroid sauce (vol. i.) ; 
let this set, then garnish with hard-boiled white of egg in the form o' 



OF EXTEA RECIPES COLD ENTREES- 223 

a star, and set the garnish with a little aspic to keep it in place. Line 
a plain round Charlotte mould thinly with aspic jelly, garnish the top 
with hard-boiled white of egg, cooked tongue, beetroot, truffle, and 
cucumber, in any pretty design, and set this garnish with more aspic 
jelly ; then arrange the cutlets, prepared as above, all round the mould, 
placing the decorated side next to the aspic, and standing them with 
the thickest portion towards the top, as in engraving, and set this with 
aspic jelly about one-eighth of an inch thick. Prepare a puree of 
mutton, as below, and fill up the inside of the mould with it ; pour in 
a little liquid aspic jelly to set this, then place it aside till firm ; dip 
the mould into hot water, pass a clean cloth over the bottom to absorb 
any moisture, turn out the timbal on to a cold dish, and garnish round 
the base with a salad of turnips, potatoes, and tomatoes, as below, and 
place a few sprigs of chervil in each corner of the dish. 

Puree for Mutton Cutlets in Timbal a la Francaise. Pound 
three-quarters of a pound of cooked lean mutton till smooth, then mix 
with it a wineglassful of sherry, two tablespoonfuls of thick good 
flavoured Brown sauce (vol. i.), a teaspoonful of Bovril, and half a 
pint of good flavoured brown stock that is mixed with half an ounce 
of Marshall's gelatine ; rub through a fine hair sieve, and use when 
cool. 

Salad for Mutton Cutlets in Timbal A la Francaise. Cut the 
turnip and potato into rounds with a small pea -cutter, put each sepa- 
rately in cold water with a little salt, bring to the boil, then strain 
and rinse in cold water, and put in boiling water to cook till tender. 
Strain, and when cold season with salad oil, tarragon vinegar, and 
chopped tarragon and chervil ; cut the tomatoes in small squares and 
season similarly, then use. 

Curried Chicken a la Marie 
Kali en Volatile a la Marie 

Cut up a small picked and cleansed chicken into neat joints, using 
only the best parts. Take four or five large peeled onions, cut them 
into very fine slices and put them in a stewpan with two ounces of 
butter, a sprig of thyme and bayleaf, and fry on the stove till a pale 
golden colour ; then add a tablespoonful of Marshall's Curry Powder 
and a few drops of carmine, a pinch of salt, one ounce of good glaze, 
one and a half ounces of fine flour ; mix with these one and a half pints 
of new milk, add the joints of chicken, then put on the stove and stir 
till boiling, and simmer gently for about one hour, during which time 



224 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

stir the curry frequently to prevent it burning. When cooked take up 
the joints and set aside till cold ; then add to the contents of the pan 
the strained juice of a lemon, a quarter-pint of thick cream, and dis- 
solve in it a quarter of an ounce of Marshall's gelatine. Reboil and 
rub through a tammy or very fine hair sieve, getting as much of the 
puree through as possible, then stir on ice till beginning to set, and with 
it mask the pieces of the bird that have been freed from skin ; set the 




pieces on a baking-tin that is standing on crushed ice and mask over 
with a little cool aspic jelly, dish up in a pile, and garnish here and there 
with finely-chopped aspic jelly, and form a border round the chicken 
with some plainly boiled cold curry rice (vol. i.) and farced olives, 
sprinkling the rice at intervals with a little lobster coral or coralline 
pepper and finely-chopped raw parsley. Serve for a cold entree, ball 
supper, &c. The remains of the chicken can be used up for stock, &c. 

Chaudfroid of Chicken with. Truffles 
Chaudfroid de Volaille aux Trtiffes 

Take the breast fillets of chicken and cut each into two or three 
parts, and bat them out with a cold wet chopping knife ; trim them, and 
* season with a little salt and lemon juice. Prepare a farce (vol. i.) with the 
meat that has been taken from the legs of the chicken, and with this 
cover the fillets entirely, smoothing them over with a hot wet knife ; put 
them in a baking-tin, cover them with a buttered paper, and stand the 
tin in another tin containing boiling water ; place it in a moderate oven 
for about seven minutes, and when they are firm place them aside in 
press till cold; then mask them over with white Chaudfroid sauce 
(vol. i.), garnish the portions with cut truffles in any pretty design, set- 
ting this with a little cool aspic jelly ; trim evenly, and dish up on a 
border of Aspic cream or jelly. Garnish round the border with 
chopped aspic jelly, fill up the centre of the border with cooked truffles, 
and use for an entree for dinner, ball supper, &c. 



OF EXTRA RECIPES COLD ENTREES 225 

Chaudfroid of Chicken with Vegetables 
Cha/udfroid de Poidet aux Legumes 

Take a small fowl prepared as in vol. i. page 179, and when cooked 
set it aside till cold ; then cut it up into neat small joints, removing any 
pieces of skin, and trimming the pieces. Prepare a sauce as below, and 
with it mask over the joints, and then mask this over lastly with a little 
cool liquid aspic jelly. Dish up in a pile, and garnish here and there 




with little bunches of cooked macedoine of vegetables or salad that is 
seasoned with salad oil, tarragon and chilli vinegar, and a little finely- 
chopped aspic jelly ; arrange round the dish little stamped-out rounds 
of cooked ham or tongue, masked with a little red-coloured aspic jelly, 
and serve for an entree for dinner or luncheon, or for ball supper, &c. 
The stock from the chicken can be used for sauce or soup. 

Sauce for Chaudfroid of Chicken with Vegetables. Take half 
a pint of good Supreme sauce (vol. i.), a quarter-pint of thick cream, 
half a pint of aspic jelly, and six sheets of Marshall's gelatine ; boil 
up, tammy, and use when cooling. 

Little Chicken Creams a la Gastronome 
Petit*'* Crimes de Volatile n la (tuxtronome 

Take twelve ounces of raw tender chicken, free it from skin and bone 
and pound it till quite smooth, then add to it six ounces of pounded 
Panard (vol. i.), two tablespoonfuls of reduced Espagnol sauce (vol. i.), 
one ounce of butter, a pinch of coralline pepper, one tablespoonful of 
sherry, a little salt, and three whole raw eggs ; mix well together, then 
rub through a fine wire sieve. Butter some peach moulds, and by 
means of a forcing bag and plain pipe nearly fill them with the 
prepared cream ; form a little well in the centre of each by dipping the 
finger in hot water and working it round in the centre of the farce ; 
place in the spaces thus formed one small whole or half a large truffle, a 
little piece of pdM de four gra& about the size of a Spanish nut, and a 

Q 



226 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

saltspoonful of reduced consomme (that would be in a stiff jelly when 
cold) ; cover up the space with a little more of the farce, stand the moulds 
in a saute pan on a fold of paper, place a buttered paper over the moulds, 
pour in sufficient boiling light stock to cover them, watch the stock reboil, 
then draw the pan to the side of the stove, cover the pan with the lid, 
and let the contents poach for about fifteen minutes ; take up when 




firm, and set the creams aside till cold. Then turn them out of the 
moulds, mask them over with white Aspic cream (vol. i.) till quite smooth 
and well coated, then glaze them over with a little cool liquid aspic jelly, 
and dish them up, as shown in the engraving, on a bed of finely- 
chopped aspic jelly. Arrange on the top of each cream a little ham 
puree, as below, using a forcing bag and small rose pipe for the purpose, 
and serve for an entree for dinner, ball supper, &c. 

Ham Puree for Chicken Creams A la Gastronome. Take for 
eight to ten creams half a pound of lean cooked ham or tongue, two 
hard-boiled yolks of eggs, a few drops of carmine, a dust of coralline 
pepper, and a quarter-pound of fresh butter ; pound altogether till quite 
smooth, rub through a fine wire sieve or tammy, and use as directed. 

Timb-al of Chicken a la Reginald 

Timbale de Volatile a la Reginald 

Take half a pound of cooked chicken (or any other cold white meat 
may be used), four boned anchovies, three hard-boiled yolks of egg, and 
a tablespoonful of tarragon vinegar ; pound altogether till quite smooth ; 
then mix with half a pint of cream, and half a pint of strong aspic 
jelly (dissolve in the jelly before mixing four sheets of gelatine), 
and rub through a very fine hair sieve or tammy ; put the puree 
into a saute pan to set ; when cold stamp it out into cutlet shapes, using 
a cutlet cutter for the purpose ; ornament each cutlet with little pieces 
of truffle or tongue, and mask over with a little aspic jelly to keep the 
garnish in its place. Have a plain Charlotte mould lined with aspic 
jelly about an eighth of an inch thick, arrange some of the cutlets on the 
bottom of the mould and set them wifhmore aspic ; garnish the sides of the 



OF EXTRA RECIPES COLD ENTREES 



227 



mould in the same way, and set this with jelly. Take half a pound in 
all of pieces of cold chicken, tongue, or ham, slices of hard-boiled yolk of 
egg, a teaspoonful of capers, one or two French gherkins, cut in slices, 
and four filleted anchovies cut up in small pieces ; mix altogether, and 




then put into the centre of the mould ; fill up with sauce, as below, and 
when the whole is set dip the mould into hot water, pass a clean cloth 
over the bottom to absorb any moisture, and turn out on to a dish ; 
garnish with chopped aspic jelly, cucumber and potato peas (see recipes), 
seasoned with Vinaigrette sauce (vol. i. page 28) and slices of tomatoes. 
Sauce for Timbal of Chicken A la Reginald. Mix half a pint 
of strong aspic jelly with a quarter-pint of thick Tartare sauce (vol.i.) ; 
stir together till it begins to set, then pour into the mould. 



Supreme of Chicken in Blanquette 

Supreme de Volatile en Blanquette 

Cut the breast of a raw chicken into as many nice little fillets as 
possible, bat each out with a cold wet chopping-knife, trim them neatly, 
place them in a buttered saute pan, season them with a little salt and 
lemon juice, cover them with a buttered paper, and cook them in a 




moderate oven for eight to ten minutes, then take them up and put 
them to press till cold. Then mask each fillet over with sauce pre- 
pared as below, ornament the centre of each with a star of tongue, ham, 
or truffle, lightly mask over the garnish with a little liquid aspic jelly, 
arrange round the edges some chopped aspic jelly by means of a 

q 2 



228 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

forcing bag and pipe ; dish up the fillets, as in engraving, on a border of 
Mayonnaise of vegetables, as below ; fill up the centre with a good 
macedoine, garnish round the base of the dish with chopped aspic jelly, 
and serve for a cold entree. 

Border of Mayonnaise of Vegetables. Take half a pint of any 
nice mixed cooked vegetables, mix with them a quarter-pint of Mayon- 
naise sauce (vol. i.), a little chopped tarragon, and three-quarters of a pint 
of strong aspic jelly ; mix this on ice till beginning to set, then put it 
into a border mould, leave till set, then dip into hot water, turn out, 
and use. 

Sauce for Supreme of Chicken in Blanquette. Take half a pint 
of Blanquette sauce (vol. i. page 11), mix with it half a pint of strong 
aspic jelly and four sheets of Marshall's Finest Leaf Gelatine, dissolve, 
tammy, and use. 

Little Oases of Chicken a la Midas 
Petitex Gaisses de Volatile d I" Midas 

Take, for six to eight cases, half a pound of cooked chicken freed 
from bone and skin, pound it till perfectly smooth, rub it through a fine 
hair sieve, then mix it with two and a half gills of strong chicken stock, 
or some well-flavoured consomme that is of the consistency of stiff jelly, 
also a wineglassful of sherry, a dust of coralline pepper, a pinch of salt, 
and the gravy from a tin of mushrooms that has been reduced to about 
a tablespoonful ; add by degrees half a pint of stiffly-whipped cream, 
well mix together, then put into a forcing bag with a plain pipe, and 




force out the mixture into some little paper souffle cases (around 
each of which has been placed a band of foolscap paper about two inches 
deeper than the cases). Put them in the charged ice cave till quite ice 
cold but not frozen, and when the mixture is set have some Tomato 
aspic (vol. i.) or clarified stock (similar to that used for the puree) slightly 
coloured with a little carmine, and when it is cool and of the consistency 
of thick cream pour some on the top of each souffle about one-eighth 
of an inch thick ; let this set, then remove the bands of paper, dish the 



OF EXTRA RECIPES COLD ENTREES 



229 



cases on a dish-paper or napkin, and serve for an entree or for any 
cold collation. If the stock or consomme should not be stiff enough, 
add a few leaves of Marshall's gelatine to it. 



Little Souffles of Chicken Cold 
Petits Souffles de Volaille Froids 

Put one and a half gills of cool aspic jelly into a stewpan or basin 
and whip till it is quite white and begins to thicken, then add to it 
three-quarters of a pint of very stiffly-whipped cream, one tablespoonful 
of tarragon vinegar and a dust of Marshall's Coralline Pepper and a 
little salt ; chop very finely half a pound of cold cooked chicken which 
has been freed from skin and sinews, and add this to the other mixture, 
with a teaspoonful of finely-chopped parsley or tarragon and chervil. 
Surround some little china or paper souffle cases with bands of foolscap 
paper, which should stand about one and a half inches above the cases, 




fix the bands with a little sealing-wax, then pour the prepared mixture 
into the cases and stand them in the refrigerator for about half an hour ; 
then remove the papers, sprinkle the souffles over alternately with 
little diamond shapes of cooked tongue or ham and sprigs of chervil 
and chopped parsley. Dish up on a dish-paper, and serve for an entree 
for dinner or luncheon, or for any cold collation. If liked these may be 
arranged in little fancy cases, which can be used again. Rabbit or any 
cold game can be used in a similar manner, and the above quantities are 
sufficient for five to six persons. 



.Little Chickens a la Renaissance 
Petits Poulets d la Renaissance 

Line some little chicken moulds very thinly with aspic jelly, and 
garnish them with truffle in little diamond shapes straight down the 
breast ; line them again thinly with white Chaudfroid sauce (vol. i.), and 



230 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

again with a puree of chicken prepared as below, and inside this puree 
put a teaspoonful of the ragout of lobster as below ; smooth this with 
a wet knife, and then cover it with the puree of chicken ; put aside on 
ice until set, then dip the moulds into hot water and turn out the little 
chickens. Dish them on a border of rice or aspic jelly; place a wax 




figure in the centre of the border, fill up the spaces between each chicken 
with aspic jelly, as in engraving, and garnish the dish with Lobster butter 
(see recipe) and olives, prepared as below ; place a chicken and four 
olives on the wax cup on top of the figure, place some olive-coloured 
aspic round the base of the dish, and garnish with little sprigs of 
tarragon and chervil. 

Puree of Chicken for Chickens A la Eenaissance. Pound three- 
quarters of a pound of cooked chicken or white meat and mix it with 
half a pint of aspic jelly, quarter of a pint of double cream, a wineglassful 
of sherry, and a pinch of salt ; when smooth pass through a tammy or 
fine sieve, and use. 

Ragout for Chickens a la Renaissance. Mix together a quarter 
of a pint of aspic jelly, two tablespoonfuls of chopped lobster, three boned 
anchovies, cut in diamond shapes, three chopped turned olives, a tea- 
spoonful of chopped capers, a pinch of chopped tarragon and chervil, a 
tablespoonful of Mayonnaise sauce (vol. i.), a few drops of Marshall's 
Liquid Carmine, and a dust of coralline pepper, then use. 

Olives for Chickens a la Renaissance. Turn some olives and 
fill them (by means of a forcing bag and pipe) with the mixture used 
for the little chickens; line some fluted dariols with olive-coloured 
aspic, place an olive in each, set with aspic, and when turned out 
garnish the dish as described above. 



OF EXTRA RECIPES COLD ENTREES 231 

Little Tongues in Chaudfroid 

Petites Langues en Ghaudfroid 

Take one pound of raw rabbit, veal, or chicken, half a pound of 
fresh fat and lean pork or ham, a quarter of a pound of Panard (vol. i.), 
and one large tablespoonful of thick Bechamel sauce (vol. i.) ; pound 
these and rub through a fine wire sieve, then mix in a basin with four 
raw yolks of eggs and a pinch of salt and coralline pepper ; add to it 
two ounces of chopped lean ham or tongue, two chopped truffles, four 
button mushrooms, and two tablespoonfuls of Liver Farce (see recipe 
' Turban a la Bonanza '). Butter some little tongue moulds, and by means 




of a forcing bag and large plain pipe fill up the moulds with the mixture, 
then place them in a saute pan, sprinkle over them a little sherry, and 
cook in a moderate oven for about fifteen minutes with a well-buttered 
paper over ; keep them well basted with sherry while cooking, then take 
up and set them aside till cold ; turn out, mask them with brown 
Chaudfroid sauce (vol. i.), after which glaze them over with a little 
liquid aspic jelly ; arrange them on a dish on a border of rice (vol. i.) 
and a centrepiece of the same to rest them against, garnish with chopped 
aspic jelly and a hatelet skewer, and serve for a cold entree or cold 
collation. 

Little Tongues and Chickens a la d' Orleans 

Petites Langues et Poulets d la d'Orleans 

Make some little tongues, as in recipe for ' Little Tongues in Chaud- 
froid,' and chickens as below, in the respective moulds. Have some 
Aspic cream (vol. i.), with which mask the little chickens when they 
are turned from the shapes, and garnish with truffle and French red 
chillies, as shown in the engraving ; then mask over with a little cool 



232 .MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

aspic jelly to set. Take some aspic coloured red with a little carmine 
and when cooling mask the tongues with it. Chop some of the jelly 
fine, put it into a forcing bag with a plain pipe and force the jelly be- 
tween the little tongues and the little chickens, and on the top round 




the hatelet skewer, to hide the pillar of rice (vol. i. page 32) against 
which the tongues are set. This is an extremely handsome dish for ball 
suppers, wedding breakfasts, &c. The tongues or the chickens will each 
make a very pretty entr6e. 

The Little Chickens a la d'Okleans. Take a pound of cooked 
chicken, pheasant, rabbit, or partridge, two tablespoonfuls of thick 
Bechamel sauce (vol. i.), one tablespoonful of salad oil, a dessertspoonful 
of tarragon vinegar, quarter of a pint of thick cream, and a pinch of 
salt and white pepper ; pound the meat, mix in the other ingredients, 
add three-quarters of a pint of liquid aspic jelly, pass the whole through 
the tammy or through a fine hair sieve, and put into the prepared 
moulds. Thinly line the little chicken moulds with aspic jelly, and 
ornament them with little finely-cut shreds of red chilli and tarragon 
and little leaves of chervil ; set these with a little more aspic, and fill 
the moulds with the above mixture ; leave till cold. When required 
just dip them into hot water, and turn them out on to a clean cloth to 
absorb any moisture ; dish them round the lower border of rice as 
directed. 

Eggs in Chaudfroid a la Bressoire 
(Eufs en Chaudfroid d la Bressoire 

Take some little copper egg moulds and thinly line them with liquid 
aspic jelly, garnish the top of each mould with a little round of truffle, 
and arrange little diamond shapes of the same all round it ; place a sprig 
or two of chervil towards the bottom of the mould, and set the garnish 



OF EXTRA RECIPES COLD ENTREES 233 

with a little aspic ; then line tbe moulds again with Aspic cream (vol. i.), 
and fill them up with the ragout; leave them till set, then dip each 
mould into hot water, turn out the eggs, and dish them up on a border 




of aspic jelly made in a piccolo mould ; place in the centre of the border 
a Lettuce salad (see recipe), and a little chopped aspic jelly; arrange 
another egg on top of this, and serve for a luncheon or second course 
dish, or for any cold collation. 

Kagout for Eggs in Chaudfboid A la Bressoibe. Take half a 
pint of good-flavoured chicken stock or clear soup that is quite in a 
jelly in strength equal to aspic, mix with it half a pint of stiffly-whipped 
double cream, a dust of coralline pepper and a little salt, one ounce of 
grated Parmesan cheese, three ounces of finely-minced cooked chicken, 
two ounces of lean cooked ham, minced, three hard-boiled yolks of eggs 
cut into tiny dice shapes, and two ounces of pdti de fois gras that 
have been rubbed through a sieve ; mix up well together, stir on ice till 
it begins to set, then use. 

Egg a la Millais 
(E'uf a la MUlais 

Take a large egg mould and line both halves about one-eighth of an 
inch thick with strong aspic jelly. Then take four or five new-laid eggs 
and boil them for eight minutes, and when cold shell and cut them in 
slices about a quarter of an inch thick and place them on a baking-tin 
or dish and mask them lightly over with liquid aspic jelly, to prevent 
them breaking when being arranged in the mould ; then ornament the 
mould with these slices, arranging them to overlap straight down, 
commencing in the middle of the mould and garnishing round each, by 
means of a forcing bag and a small plain pipe, with chopped truffle and 
ox tongue (as below). Set each layer of the egg garnish with a little 
aspic jelly to keep it in place ; when both halves of the mould are 
covered with the garnish, fill up the inside of each part with a chicken 
cream (as below), and when about to close up the mould put in each 
part about two tablespoonfuls of liquid aspic to join the parts firmly 



234 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

together, and tie the mould over with a piece of broad tape to keep it 
close. When cold, arrange some finely-chopped aspic jelly on the dish on 
which the egg is to be served, and then dip the mould into hot water 
and turn out the egg on the chopped jelly ; garnish round the edge with 




halves of cqoked artichoke bottoms, seasoned with salad oil and tarragon 
vinegar, and on these arrange a Mayonnaise of cooked potatoes (see 
recipe), and here and there round the dish place little blocks of cut 
aspic jelly. Serve this dish for a cold entree or for any cold collation 
enough for six to eight persons. 

Truffle for Egg a la Millais. Chop one or two truffles up finely 
and mix them with enough liquid aspic jelly to cover them ; then mix 
together on ice till set, put into the forcing bag with a plain pipe, and 
use. 

Tongue for Egg A la Millais. Chop up one ounce of lean cooked 
tongue or ham, put it into a little stewpan with enough aspic jelly to 
cover it, and dissolve ; add a few drops of carmine to give it a brighter 
colour, stir till set, then use. 

Chicken Cream for Egg A la Millais. Take a quarter of a 
pound of cooked chicken or pheasant, &c, pound it till smooth, and 
then mix it with a quarter of a pint of good-flavoured Veloute sauce 
(vol. i.) in which a quarter of an ounce of Marshall's gelatine is dissolved ; 
rub it through a hair sieve, and then mix it with two tablespoonfuls of 
cooked cucumber that has been cut up in tiny dice shapes, and a quarter 
of a pint of stiffly-whipped cream, two chopped French gherkins, and 
one ounce of chopped lean ham or tongue, and stir on ice till it begins 
to set, then use. 

Plovers' Eggs in Aspic a la Victoria 
CEufs de Pluviers en Aspic d la Victoria 

Line both parts of the little egg moulds with aspic jelly (vol. i.), 
cut some small diamond shapes from hard-boiled white of egg and little 
rings from sliced truffle ; arrange these in star shapes in the tops of the 
egg moulds, set these with a little aspic jelly, and garnish the moulds 



OF EXTRA RECIPES COLD ENTREES 235 

all over with little picked leaves of chervil (shreds of lettuce and tarragon 
may also be used) ; set this garnish with a little more aspic, place a 
plainly boiled plover's egg in the top of each mould, fix the two parts 
of the mould together, and carefully fill up with aspic jelly ; put them 
aside on ice till set, then turn out. Prepare a piccolo border mould in 
the same manner by lining it with aspic jelly, and garnish it with stars 




and chervil, &c, similar to the little moulds, and fill it up with aspic ; 
when it is set turn out and place one of the prepared eggs in each hollow 
of the piccolo border and one in the centre, and garnish the centre round 
the eggs and dish with chopped aspic, by means of a forcing bag and pipe, 
and blocks of foie gras at the corners of the piccolo shape as in engraving. 
Little green tarragon and chervil leaves may be placed here and there on 
the garnish. 

Timbal a la Windsor 
Timbctie a la Windsor 

Take a bomb mould, line it thinly with aspic jelly, and then arrange 
all over it sticks of cooked asparagus, that have been ornamented with 
strips of French chilli and little sprigs of chervil set on the asparagus 
with a little liquid aspic jelly ; set the asparagus, with a little more aspic 




to keep it in place ; then fill up the inside of the mould with a puree of 
white meat as below, and put it away to get set ; then dip the mould 
into hot water, and turn it out on an entree dish ; garnish round with 
little blocks of aspic jelly and cooked artichoke bottoms that are sliced, 



^36 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

also sliced raw tomatoes, seasoned with a little mignonette pepper, 
salad oil, and tarragon vinegar. Serve for an entree, second-course, or 
luncheon dish. 

Pure?: for Ti.mbal A la Windsor. Take a pound of either cooked 
chicken or rabbit ; pound it till smooth, then mix it with a table- 
spoonful of tarragon vinegar, half an ounce of good butter, a table- 
spoonful of Mayonnaise sauce (vol. i.), a dust of pepper, two tablespoonfuls 
of thick Bechamel sauce (vol. i.), and mix with this three-quarters of 
a pint of liquid aspic jelly ; rub through the tammy or fine hair sieve, 
then add two tablespoonfuls of stiffly- whipped cream, and use when 
beginning to get set. 

Ballettes a la Saint Louis 
Ballettes d la Saint Lottie 

Take some little ball moulds, line them thinly with liquid aspic jelly, 
then ornament the top part of each mould with stamped-out pieces of 
truffle and Aspic cream (vol. i.), adding to the cream three sheets of 
Marshall's gelatine, arranging the pieces alternately and setting them 
to the mould with a little more aspic jelly, and then line all over with 




liquid aspic cream. Prepare a ragout as below, and with it fill up the 
inside of the moulds, close them together and set them aside till cold 
and firm, then dip into hot water and turn out. Dish up straight down 
an entree dish on a bed of chopped aspic jelly, and garnish round with 
little cut blocks of aspic cream. Serve for an entree for dinner or 
luncheon, ball supper, &c. 

Ragout for Ballettes a la St. Louis. Take rather better than a 
half-pint of good clear consomme, dissolve in it not quite a quarter of 
an ounce of Marshall's gelatine, and then strain ; leave it till somewhat 
cool, then mix with it the cooked breast of a chicken, two or three 
cooked button mushrooms, one large truffle, and two or three table- 
spoonfuls of cold cooked sweetbread, using up any remains from a 
previous meal for the purpose, and cutting all these ingredients into 
little dice shapes. 



OF EXTRA RECIPES COLD ENTREES 237 

Cream a la Indienne 
Creme d Vlndienne 

Line a large egg mould with aspic jelly, and ornament it with truffle, 
shreds of hard-boiled white of egg, French red chilli and French gherkin ; 
set this garnish with more jelly, and line the mould completely over with 
Aspic cream (vol. i.); fill up the mould with a cream as below; put aside 




till set, then dip the mould into hot water and turn out the egg on to a 
bed of chopped aspic on an entree dish ; arrange round the egg some small 
eggs prepared as below, and between each of these place a little finely- 
chopped aspic, and garnish the eggs with small hatelet skewers. Serve 
for an entree for dinner or luncheon, or for any cold collation. 

Cream for Mould fob Cream a lIndienne. Take half a pound 
of cold cooked chicken, half a pound of lean cooked ham, and one ounce 
of fresh butter ; pound together till quite smooth, then mix it with half 
a pint of sauce as below, and rub all through a tammy or fine hair sieve ; 
mix with a quarter of a pint of stiffly-whipped cream, and pour into the 
mould. 

Sauce for Cream a l'Indienxe. Cut up four peeled onions into 
little dice shapes, and put them into a stewpan with one ounce of good 
butter, two bay leaves, and a sprig of thyme ; fry till a nice golden 
colour ; then mix with a teaspoonful of chutney, one chopped capsicum, 
a dessertspoonful of tamarinds, a teaspoonful of curry paste, a dessert- 
spoonful of Marshall's Curry Powder, a teaspoonful of turmeric, the juice 
of a large lemon, two tablespoonfuls of grated fresh cocoanut, a salt- 
spoonful of salt and one ounce of glaze ; mix with one pint of white 
stock, a wineglass of sherry, and the same of white wine, then simmer 
till tender ; dissolve it in a quarter of an ounce of gelatine, and tammy 
and use. 

Small Eggs for Garnish. Line some little egg moulds with aspic 
jelly, fill up with a macedoine of cooked vegetables and pour in some 
aspic jelly. When this is set. dip into hot water, turn out, and use. 



238 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

Timbal a la Oomorin 

Timbale a la Comorin 

Line a pint bomb mould very thinly with liquid aspic jelly, then orna- 
ment it with little fillets of cold braised sweetbread and cooked chicken 
that are cut out in tiny cutlet shapes by means of a cutlet cutter, and 
masked alternately with salmon-coloured and white Chaudfroid sauce 
(vol. i.). Put in the sweetbread and chicken alternately. "When the 
mould is completely covered, mask it lightly over with aspic jelly, to 




keep the garnish in place. Prepare a curry mixture as below ; then 
put into it all the trimmings of the chicken and sweetbread that are 
chopped up, mixing well together, and then pour it into the mould ; 
leave it on ice till set. When thoroughly cold dip the mould into 
hot water and turn out on a border of plainly boiled rice for curry 
(vol. i. page 32), and garnish round with little cases, and arrange here 
and there a little finely-chopped aspic jelly. 

Curry for Timbal A la Comorin. Put one and a half ounces of 
butter in a stewpan with three small sliced onions, a bunch of herbs 
(thyme, parsley, and bayleaf), a pinch of mignonette pepper, a saltspoon- 
ful of coriander powder, a teaspoonful of Marshall's Curry Powder ; fry 
altogether for about ten minutes, then add three-quarters of a pint of 
chicken stock, the juice of one lemon, two tablespoonfuls of grated 
cocoanut, a dessertspoonful of tamarinds, two green capsicums ; cook 
together for about half an hour, keeping skimmed occasionally. Have 
three-quarters of a pint of aspic jelly, reduce to half the quantity, then 
mix this with the curry, pass it through the tammy, and put it into a 
stewpan to dissolve ; stir till cooling, and add a gill of whipped cream ; 
then add the trimmings as above, and-'use as directed. 



OF EXTRA RECIPES COLD ENTREES 239 

Cases for TlMBAL a la Comorix. Place about a teaspoonful of 
the above curry mixture in each case as shown in the engraving, 
then stick a few strips of truffle or button mushroom on the mixture, 
and leave till wanted in a cool place. 

Chartreuse of Game a la Battenberg 
Chartrevse de Gibier d la Battenberg 

Line a plain round Charlotte mould with aspic jelly, ornament it 
with thin slices of truffle or tongue cut in triangles and rounds as in the 
engraving, and set these with a little more aspic jelly ; then line the 




mould all over lightly with white Chaudfroid (vol. i.) ; when the ckaud- 
froid is set fill up the centre of the mould with a ragout of any kind of 
game, mixed with the sauce as below, and let it stand till firm, then 
turn out on a dish-paper, and serve. 

KagoC t for Chartreuse of Game a la Battenberg. Cut half a 
pound of game and six cooked game livers into small fillets, add one or 
two large truffles and six button mushrooms cut up ; mix these ingre- 
dients into the sauce, and when cooling pour into the mould to set. 
For the Sauce : Put half a pint of aspic jelly in a stewpan with 
four tablespoonfuls of good Brown sauce (vol. i.) and half an ounce of 
glaze, a wineglassful of sherry, and a pinch of sugar ; let these boil, and 
keep skimmed till reduced about a quarter-part ; pass through the tammy 
and mix with the cut ingredients as above. 

Little Timbals a la Monaco 
Petites Timbales d la Monaco 

Line some little Monaco moulds with strong aspic jelly, and 
ornament them with thinly-cut strips of truffle, tongue, white of egg, 
and blanched cucumber, as shown in engraving ; set this with a little 
more aspic, then mask over with Aspic cream (vol. i.), using just 



240 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

sufficient to thinly cover the garnish. Prepare a ragout as below, and 
with it fill up the inside of the moulds ; then put them aside on ice till 
quite firm ; dip each mould separately into hot water, turn out the 
timbals, and dish up on an entree dish ; fill up the tops of the moulds 
with a Tomato salad cut in squares (see recipe) and cucumber peas (see 




recipe) mixed with a little salad oil, tarragon vinegar, a little salt and 
mignonette pepper ; garnish the dish by means of a forcing bag and 
small plain pipe with some chopped aspic jelly, and place some of the 
Tomato salad and cucumber peas in the centre of the timbals, and serve 
for an entree or second-course dish. 

RagoOt for Little Timbals A la Monaco. Take, for ten to 
twelve persons, the contents of a small jar of pate de foie gras, half a 
small cooked sweetbread, half a bottle of Financiere, one or two truffles 
and cooked button mushrooms (those left from a previous meal would 
do) ; cut these ingredients into small dice shapes, then prepare a sauce 
(vol. i. page 153, as for Little Nectarines), and when it is cooling mix in 
the above mixture, leave till nearly set, then fill up the moulds with it. 

Little Timbals a la Belle Eugenie 
Petites Timbales a la Belle Eugenie 

Take some little fluted dariol moulds and line them about one- 
eighth of an inch thick with strong aspic jelly ; then arrange alternately 
round the moulds from top to bottom strips of cooked filleted sole 
(vol. i. page 89) that are cut about two inches long by a quarter of an 
inch thick, and boned Christiania anchovies, with raw peeled tomatoes 
that are also cut in strips ; set this garnish to the sides of the moulds 
with a little aspic, and fill up the centres with about a teaspoonful of 
picked shrimps or two or three of the prepared crayfish ; cover this 
with aspic and put aside till set. When ready to serve plunge each 
mould into hot water and turn out the timbals ; dish them up on a 
border of aspic jelly, place a wax figure with a top in the centre, and 
garnish it round with a ragout of cold pieces of cooked sole, anchovies, 
turned olives, and tomatoes that are cut up in little square pieces and 
seasoned with a little finely- chopped tarragon and chervil, salad oil and 



OF EXTRA RECIPES COLD ENTREES 



241 



tarragon vinegar ; arrange some chopped aspic jelly round the. base of 
the border, cut some strips of aspic jelly, and place one between each 
little timbal, as shown in the engraving. Fill the centre of the cup at the 
top of the wax figure with the same mixture that was used for garnishing 




the base ; arrange some chopped aspic jelly round this as a border, and 
garnish with strips of fresh tarragon ; then place on the top of each 
timbal, by means of a forcing bag and pipe, a little stiff Mayonnaise 
sauce. Serve for an entree or ball supper dish, or for a cold 
collation. 

Timbal a la Palmeira 
Tim hale d la Palmeira 

Take a plain Charlotte mould and line it thinly with liquid aspic 
jelly, garnish it with stamped-out diamond shapes of Tomato aspic and 
Aspic cream, setting this to the mould with a little aspic jelly, then fill 
up the centre with a ragout of curried fish prepared as below ; place the 




mould in a cool place till the contents are set, then dip the mould into 
hot water, pass a clean cloth over the bottom to absorb any moisture, 
and turn out the timbal on to a border prepared as below, garnish round 
with a little finely-chopped aspic jelly and plainly boiled rice, and serve 

R 



242 MRS. A: B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

for an entree or as a dressed fish, or for second course, luncheon, or ball 
supper, &c. 

Curry Mixture for Timbal A la Palmeira. Fry four peeled aud 
sliced onions with a pinch of finely-chopped bayleaf and thyme for 
about fifteen minutes in two ounces of butter, then add two raw ripe 
tomatoes, a teaspoonful of Marshall's Curry Powder, a good pinch of 
coralline pepper, a dessertspoonful of tamarinds, a teaspoonful of 
coriander powder, a saltspoonful of strained lemon-juice, a tablespoonful 
of grated cocoanut, a teaspoonful of Liebig Company's Extract of Meat, 
six Christiania anchovies, a few drops of liquid carmine, and one pint 
of good fish gravy ; simmer till tender, then add not quite a quarter of 
an ounce of Marshall's gelatine, and when this is dissolved rub the 
puree through a tammy; mix to it when cooling two tablespoonful s of 
whipped cream and about half a pound of cold cooked fish, such as 
salmon, cod, &c. (that left from a previous meal would do), then use as 
directed. 

Aspic Cream for Timbal A la Palmeira. Add to half a pint of 
warm aspic jelly, four sheets of Marshall's gelatine, and when this i3 
dissolved add a quarter-pint of cream ; wring it through a tammy and 
pour into a clean tin or dish to a quarter of an inch thick, sprinkle in 
a little finely-chopped parsley ; leave until set, then stamp out and 
use. 

Tomato Aspic for Timbal A la Palmeira. Take three or four raw 
ripe or tinned tomatoes, pound them till smooth, then add a few drops 
of carmine, a tablespoonful of strained lemon-juice, a dust of coralline 
pepper, half-pint of aspic jelly in which five or six sheets of gelatine have 
been dissolved ; tammy, and set the same as the aspic cream. 

Border for Timbal A la Palmeira. Line a Breton border with 
aspic jelly, and fill it up with sliced tomatoes and pieces of cooked 
artichoke bottoms ; set with more aspic, then, when cold, dip into hot 
water, turn out and use. 

Escalopes of Pigeons a la Lisbonne 
Escalopes de Pigeon a la Lisbonne 

Pick, singe, and bone a Bordeaux pigeon ; then prepare a farce (vol. i. 
page 124) and spread it on the table ; smooth it over with the hand, which 
should be occasionally dipped in cold water (as this makes the farce bind 
together and cut quite smooth and firm), and place in the centre of it 
some slices of pate de foie gras, and here and there little strips of truffle 
and cooked button mushrooms 5 roll up into a round form and place it in 
the pigeon. Lightly butter a piece' of clean cloth, roll the bird in it, 



) 



OF EXTRA. RECIPES COLD ENTREES 



24: 



and tie it up tightly in the form of galantine. Put in a stewpan about 
three pints of boiling light stock, add the bones of the pigeon and one 
or two sliced peeled onions, one sliced carrot and turnip, a few strips 
of celery, a bunch of herbs, eight peppercorns, and two or three cloves ; 
put the bird in the pan and allow the contents to simmer gently for 
about one hour ; then take up the pigeon and retie it, and set it aside 
till cold. Then remove the cloth, and cut the pigeon into slices about a 








quarter of an inch thick ; place these on a dish and mask them with 
Aspic cream (vol. i.) ; let this set, then garnish with a little cut truffle, 
set this with a little liquid aspic, then trim and dish up on a block of 
aspic jelly; garnish with a macedoine of cooked vegetables that arc 
strained and seasoned with a little salad oil, tarragon and chilli vinegar, 
and a little chopped tarragon; serve for an entree or second course, or 
any cold collation. 

Chaudfroid of Pigeon a la Castillanne 
Oha/udfroid de Pigeon d I" GastiUanne 

Clean, pick, and singe the pigeon, then bone it and season it with 
pepper and salt, and fill it with farce (vol. i. page 124), using a forcing 
bag and pipe for the purpose ; when the bird is full fasten it up with a 
net 'die and cotton, then put it in a cloth that is buttered and tie it up in 
the form of a galantine ; put it in well-flavoured stock, and let it boil 




gently for about three-quarters of an hour ; then take up, untie the 
cloth, and roll it up again to keep it in a nice form. Put it aside to get 
cold, then cut it in slices about a quarter of an inch thick ; mask each 
slice on the top and sides once or twice with brown Chaudfroid (vol. i.), 
and allow this to get quite cool and set ; then trim evenly and dish them 

B 2 



"244 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

up on a border of aspic jelly, as shown in the engraving ; garnish with a 
Compote of Cherries (see recipe), and ornament the sides of the dish and 
between the fillets with chopped aspic jelly, using a forcing bag and pipe 
for the purpose. 

Supreme of Pheasant a la St. Catherine 
Supreme de Faisan a la St. Catherine 

Take the breast fillets from a raw pheasant, free them from skin, and 
place them on a buttered tin ; sprinkle over them a little lemon juice 
and salt, cover them with buttered foolscap paper, cook them in a 
moderate oven for eight to ten minutes, and then put to press till cold. 
Cut each fillet into as many neat slices as possible, mask the bottom 
part of each of these with brown Chaudfroid sauce (vol. i.) and the top 
part with Mayonnaise aspic (vol. i.), setting this with a little aspic jelly ; 




trim the supremes and dish them up as shown in the engraving on a border of 
aspic jelly. Place a wax figure in the centre of the border, and fill it up 
with slices of cooked artichoke bottoms, little pieces of cut truffle, and 
small square pieces of cooked ox-tongue that have been mixed with a 
little salad oil and tarragon vinegar ; garnish round the fillets with a 
little finely-chopped aspic jelly, using a forcing bag and pipe for the 
purpose, and serve. 

Quails a la Lesseps 
Catties d hi Lesseps 

Take some boned quails with the feet left on, and place inside each 
bird a peeled dried raw potato, cut about two and a half inches long by 
one and a half wide, and formed into cylinder shapes ; dry these with a 
cloth, and then rub them well over with butter ; fasten up the birds in 
little bands of buttered paper, place them in a buttered saute pan with 
half a wineglassful of sherry, and put in the oven for about fifteen 
minutes. When cooked, take up and put aside till cold, then remove 
the papers and the potatoes, and by means of a forcing bag and a plain 
pipe fill up the birds with a ragout, as below ; put them in a cool place 



OF EXTRA RECIPES COLD ENTREES 24-J 

till the ragout is perfectly set, then cut the birds in half with a wet 
warm knife, and mask each over with brown Chaudfroid sauce (vol. i.) ; 
when well coated lightly mask over with a little liquid Aspic jelly (vol. i.), 
and dish up round a timbal of clear ice prepared as below. Arrange 
between each half-bird a little finely-chopped aspic, and garnish the 



top of the birds with a little pdU de fine gras that has been passed 
through a wire sieve, using a forcing bag and large rose pipe for the 
purpose ; garnish the dish here and there with little sprigs of picked 
chervil and tarragon, and when about to serve put a lighted night-light 
in the centre of the ice timbal, and serve at once. 

Ragout for filling the Quails a la Lesseps. Take for four 
quails the half-breast of a cooked chicken] (cut into small pieces), six 
button mushrooms, two or three truffles, and two ounces of foie gras ; 
mix these with the sauce prepared as below, leave till nearly set, then 
use. 

Sauce for Ragout for Quails a la Lesseps. Put a dessertspoonful 
of Bovril into a stewpan with a quarter-pint of Tomato sauce (vol. i.), a 
wineglassful of sherry, and half a pint of aspic jelly ; reduce to half the 
quantity, keep skimmed while boiling, then tammy, and use. 

Ice Timbal for Quails A la Lesseps. Set a plain timbal mould 
that is filled with cold water in the charged ice-cave for two and a half 
to three hours ; when frozen dip into cold water, turn out the ice, and 
put in centre of dish on which the quails are to be served, first placing 
between the timbal and the dish a little wadding. 

Larks a la Sotterville 
Mauviettes & ho Sotteruille 

Take some singed and cleansed larks, bone them, but leave the feet 
and bottom part of the leg bone on, then by means of a forcing bag and 
plain pipe farce each bird with a puree prepared as below ; form them 



246 



MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 



into neat shapes, wrap each bird in a band of buttered foolscap paper, tie 
them up with thin string, put them in a tin with a little warm butter 
and bake for about fifteen minutes, during which time keep them well 
basted ; set them aside till cold, then mask them with fawn-coloured 
Chaudfroid sauce (see recipe), and when this is set mask all over with 
aspic jelly. When quite cold trim them and dish them up on a border 
of Aspic cream, as below, standing them against a crouton of fried bread ; 
then by means of a forcing bag and pipe garnish between the larks with 




finely-chopped Aspic cream; arrange here and there some Financiers 
garnish that has been masked with aspic jelly and also some finely- 
shredded cut truffles. Arrange just above the top of the larks the 
heads of the birds prepared as follows : Cleanse the heads and roll them 
up in buttered paper, then cook them in a moderate oven for five minutes ; 
set aside till cold and brush each over with warm glaze or cool aspic jelly ; 
cut out with a pea-cutter some little rounds of hard-boiled white of egg 
to fit the birds' eyes, place these in the spaces and in the centre of this 
place a smaller round of red chilli, then mask over with aspic jelly. 

Farce for Larks A la Sotterville. Take, for twelve birds, six 
ounces of cooked pheasant or chicken, six raw bearded oysters and their 
liquor, two ounces of pate de foie gras, two tablespoonfuls of good Brown 
sauce (vol. i.), a teaspoonful of warm glaze, two ounces of panarcl, and 
two raw yolks of eggs ; pound till smooth, season with a dust of Marshall's 
Coralline Pepper and a little salt, rub through a wire sieve, mix with two 
or three French red chillies that have been freed from seeds and cut up 
in little square pieces, put into a forcing bag with a plain pipe, and use. 

Aspic Cream for Border for Larks A la Sotterville. Take one 
quart of aspic jelly, a pint of thick cream, and half an ounce of Marshall's 
gelatine ; dissolve and tammy and when cooling fill a border mould with 
it ; let it remain till set, then dip into hot water and turn out ; set any of 
the remains of the cream aside till "quite cold for chopping up. 



OF EXTRA RECIPES COLD ENTREES . 247 

Financiere Garnish for Larks a la Sotterville. Open the 
bottle of prepared Financiere, stand it in the bain-marie, turn out the 
Financiere, and when cool mask with aspic jelly and use Avhen set. 



Cream of Hare a la Ferdinand 
Creme de Livrrc & la Ferdinand 

Take three-quarters of a pound of cold cooked hare (that left from a 
previous meal will do for the purpose), pound it till quite smooth with a 
dessertspoonful of Bovril, a wineglassful of sherry, a half-pint of Supreme 
sauce (vol. i.), one gill of Brown sauce (vol. i.), and adust of Marshall's 
Coralline Pejmer; dissolve a quarter-ounce of Marshall's gelatine in half a 
pint of aspic jelly, and add this to the other ingredients ; rub the whole 
through a tammy, and use. Line a fancy mould with aspic jelly, orna- 
ment it with stamped-out rounds of Aspic cream (vol. i.) and Tomato 
aspic (vol. i.) and truffle ; set the garnish with more jelly, then fill up 
the mould with the prepared puree ; let it remain on ice till set. Dip 
the mould into hot water and turn out the cream on a dish ; garnish 
round the cream with a cooked macedoine of vegetables (these are kept 
in bottles or tins), season with salad oil, tarragon, and chilli vinegar, and 
a little mignonette pepper and salt. Serve for an entree for dinner, &0. 

Creani of Rabbit a la Duxelle 
Creme de Lapereau d la Duxelle 

Take a rabbit mould, lay it open, and place it on crushed ice in a 
basin ; line both sides with aspic jelly about one-eighth of an inch thick, 
and when this is set line them again with fawn-coloured Chaudfroid 
sauce (see recipe) ; let this set, then fill up the two parts of the mould with 




a puree of rabbit as below, keeping the mould in motion whilst adding 
this, so that the mixture becomes well imbedded. Take the contents 
of a small jar of pdte de foie gras, and with a hot wet knife cut it 
through into two pieces ; place one piece in the centre of the puree in 
each side, then partly close the mould and pour into it the remaining 



248 



MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 



part of the rabbit puree, which must be in a semi-liquid state, so as to 
join all the contents together ; close up the mould firmly with the pegs 
and place it into some ice, and leave it for about half an hour, when 
it will be set. When ready to serve, dip the mould into hot water and 
turn out the rabbit, put in two glass eyes, dish it on a bed of finely- 
chopped aspic jelly, and garnish it round, as in engraving, with little 
timbals as below, cooked halves of artichoke bottoms, that are seasoned 
with a little salad oil, tarragon, and chervil, and tarragon vinegar, and 
serve for an entree or any cold collation. 

Puree for Cream of Kabbit A la Duxelle. Pound till smooth 
one pound of cooked rabbit with two tablespoonfuls of good Veloute 
sauce (vol. i.), one ounce of fresh butter, two tablespoonfuls of thick 
cream, a wineglassful of sherry, one tablespoonful of Brown sauce (vol. i.) r 
a dust of Marshall's Coralline Pepper, and a little salt ; then mix with 
one pint of good-flavoured stock in which one ounce of Marshall's gela- 
tine has been dissolved ; rub the puree through a tammy or fine hair 
sieve, and use when it is becoming set. 

Timbals for Garmsh for Cream of Rabbit A la Duxelle. Line 
some fluted dariol moulds with plain aspic jelly, and when this is set 
fill them with raw ripe tomato, that has been freed from seeds and skin 
and cut up into tiny dice shapes, and then mixed with a little cut 
tarragon and chervil and set with a little red-coloured aspic, prepared 
by adding a little carmine to some ordinary aspic. 

Cream of Rabbit a la Ruthven 
Pain de Laperean d la Ruthven 

Line a timbal mould about one-eighth of an inch thick with aspic 
jelly, and ornament it as in engraving with alternate layers of puree of 




Rabbit as below, and Liver farce (see recipe, i Turban a la Bonanza '), 
adding to the latter half a pint of aspic jelly ; set each layer with a little 
aspic jelly to keep it in place ; when the mould is completely covered, 



OF EXTRA RECIPES COLD ENTREES 



249 



fill up the inside with cucumber prepared as below, set this with more 
aspic, and put the mould aside till cool ; then dip it into hot water, pass a 
clean cloth over the bottom to absorb any moisture, and turn out on to a 
dish ; garnish round with finely-chopped aspic jelly, using a forcing bag 
and pipe for the purpose, and arrange cooked cucumber or halves of pre- 
pared or fresh artichoke bottoms, seasoned with a little salad oil, tarragon 
vinegar, and chopped chervil, at each end of the dish. Serve for an 
entree for dinner or luncheon. 

Puree of Babbit for Cream A la Ruthvex. Take one pound of 
cooked rabbit and pound it till smooth, then mix with it two and a half 
gills of liquid aspic jelly, a wineglassful of sherry, and a quarter of a 
pint of thick cream ; rub through a fine hair sieve, add a little chopped 
tarragon and chervil, then while liquid put the puree into a saute pan ; 
leave till set, then stamp out in the desired shapes, and use. 

Cucumber for Cream of Rabbit a la Ruthven. Peel a cucumber, 
split it down into four lengths, remove the seedy part, and then cut 
crosswise into pieces about one and a half inches long ; put these into 
cold water with a little salt, and bring to the boil, then skim and cook 
till tender, strain and rinse with cold water. 

Ballettes of Foie Gras a l'lmperiale 
Ballettes de Foie Gras a VImpSriale 

Line some ballette moulds thinly with aspic jelly, and garnish them 
with egg mixtures, in red and white, stamped out into tiny rings the size 
of a threepenny piece (see recipes, Egg Garnishes for soups and moulds) ; 
set this garnish with a little aspic jelly, and then fill up the centres with a 
uice piece of pate de foie gras ; set this with more liquid aspic jelly, close 




up the moulds and leave them till the contents are firm.. Then dip each 
mould into hot water, and turn out the ballettes on to a bed of finely- 
chopped aspic jelly ; garnish with sprigs of tarragon and chervil, and 
halves of cooked artichoke bottoms that are filled with flageolets mixed 
with a little salad oil, tarragon, and chilli vinegar, and serve for an. 
entree for dinner or luncheon, or any cold service. 



250 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER -COOKERY BOOK 

Little Bouches of Foie Gras a la Russe 
Petites Bouchees de Foie Gras a la Russe 

Thinly line some little bouche moulds with aspic jelly, garnish them 
with little thinly-cut strips of hard-boiled white of egg, and place here 
and tilery round the mould some little beads of the prepared red garnish, 
using a forcing bag with a small plain pipe for the purpose, and at the 
bottom of the mould form a little border all round with finely-shredded 
lettuce, setting it with a little more liquid aspic jelly. Place a little 
piece of pate de foie gras in the centre of each mould, then fill them 
up entirely with liquid aspic jelly, and put aside till set. Take some 




little square paper cases, nearly fill them with the prepared salad, turn 
out the little bouches by dipping them in hot water and draining them 
on a clean cloth, and place one in each case on top of the green salad, 
and by means of a forcing bag with a medium-sized pipe form a little 
border of finely- chopped aspic jelly all round the edge of the case ; place a 
tiny sprig of raw green chervil, or a small cleansed radish, at the four 
corners of each case, dish up on a dish-paper on entree or flat dish, and 
serve for cold entree, second-course dish, or for any cold collation. 

Red Garnish for Little Bouches of Foie Gras a la Russe. 
Take about two ounces of finely-chopped lean cooked ham or tongue, 
mix it with sufficient liquid aspic jelly to cover it, season with a little 
coralline pepper and a few drops of carmine, stir till beginning to set, 
then put into the forcing bag, and use as directed. 

Salad for Little Bouches of Foie Gras a la Russe. Take the 
heart of a nice well-washed crisp lettuce, dry it well, cut it into shreds, 
mix with it a little fresh-chopped tarragon and chervil, season with a 
little salad oil and salt, mix altogether, and use. 

Mousse of Foie G-ras a la Rossini 

Mousse de Foie Gras a la Rossini 

Line a plain round Charlotte mould thinly with liquid aspic jelly, 
ornament it with truffles, gherkins, red chillies, and hard-boiled white 



OF EXTRA RECIPES COLD ENTREES 



251 



of egg that are cut in slices then stamped out in any pretty designs, 
setting them to the mould with a little more aspic to keep them in their 
places. Take the contents of a jar of pdti de foie grew and rub it 
through a clean fine wire sieve, and mix it with two wineglassfuls of 
sherry. Take half a pint of good-flavoured light stock, mix it with 
rather better than a quarter-ounce of Marshall's gelatine, and, when 




dissolved, strain and leave till somewhat cool; whip it in a whipping- 
tin till quite spongy, add this to the foie gras, and pour it into the 
prepared mould ; leave it on ice till cold and firm ; then dip it into hot 
water, pass a clean cloth over the bottom to absorb any moisture, turn 
out the mousse on to a bed of plainly boiled cold rice (vol. i. page 32), 
garnish it with little blocks of cut aspic jelly, and serve for a cold 
entree, or for second course, or any cold collation. 

Timbals of Foie Gras a la Beatrice 
Timbales de Foie Qras i la Beatrice 

Line the little egg moulds very thinly with strong aspic jelly, then 
ornament them with finely-shredded raw crisp green lettuce, green 
French gherkins cut in shreds, and a little tarragon and red chilli; set 
these with a little aspic jelly, then fill up the centres with pieces of 




pate de foie <jra* and truffle cut in strips, add a little aspic jelly to set 
this, and put on ice to get cold. Line a piccolo border mould with 
aspic jelly, ornament it round the edge similarly to the eggs, then fill 
up with aspic and put aside to get cold ; when ready to serve dip the 



252 MRS. A. B MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

moulds in warm water and turn out ; arrange an egg shape in each of 
the spaces of the piccolo, put some chopped aspic in the centre by 
means of a forcing bag and pipe, and dish another egg on the top of 
this as in engraving ; garnish round this with chopped aspic jelly, and 
quarters of plovers' or chicken's eggs, that are sprinkled with chopped 
truffle and shreds of red chilli and then masked with aspic jelly, and 
here and there some macedoine (or other nice vegetable), to a pint of which 
a tablespoonful of salad oil, a tablespoonful of tarragon vinegar, a few 
drops of chilli vinegar, and a pinch of mignonette pepper have been 
added. Place in each corner of the dish, as in engraving, a little round 
of thick Mayonnaise (vol. i.), using a forcing bag and pipe for the pur- 
pose, with some of the vegetables, and serve for a cold entree or for any 
cold collation. 

Souffle' of Foie G-ras a la Montreal 
Scmjjle de Foie Gras d \a Montrrnl 

Place a double band of paper round the outside of a silver or paper 
souffle case, so that it stands about four inches above the case, fix it with 
a little sealing-wax, and then line it with a mock foie gras or liver farce, 
prepared as below, by means of a forcing bag with a plain pipe, forcing out 
the mixture to the thickness and length of finger biscuits; smooth this over 
with a wet warm knife, then fill up the inside of the case with the cream 




mixture as below, and put the souffle into the ice cave for about ono 
hour ; then remove the paper band, and garnish the top of the souffle as 
in engraving with cooked artichoke bottoms that have been sliced and 
seasoned with a little salad oil, tarragon vinegar, chopped tarragon, and 
a little finely-chopped aspic jelly. Serve on a napkin or dish-paper 
for an entree or second-course dish, or for a cold collation. 

Cream Mixture for Souffle of Foie Gras A la Montreal. 
Whip one pint of double cream tilf perfectly stiff, then whip half a 



OF EXTRA RECIPES COLD ENTREES 



253 



pint of consomme or good chicken stock of the consistence of jelly with 
half a pint of aspic till spongy, add this to the cream with a dust of 
coralline pepper and a pinch of salt ; cut up the contents of a small tin 
of pdt6 de foie cjras into tiny dice shapes with a wet warm knife and 
mix with the other ingredients, add two or three chopped truffles, and 
put all into a forcing bag with a plain pipe, and use as directed above. 

Mock Foie Gras or Liver Farce for Souffle a la Montreal. 
Cut into square pieces one pound of calf's liver, half a pound of raw bacon, 
and one onion, add a pinch of salt and pepper, and fry over a quick fire 
in two ounces of butter for two or three minutes ; remove from- the pan 
and pound and pass through a wire sieve whilst hot ; then add two or 
three shredded truffles, mix with half a pint of liquid aspic jelly, and 
stir on ice till the mixture is getting set, then put into a bag with a 
large plain pipe, and use as instructed. 



Egyptian Cream 
Crime d VEgypti&n/ne 

Prepare five purees, as below, and put them into separate forcing 
bags with large plain pipes, using the purees when they arc of the con- 
sistency of thick cream. Fill a Neapolitan ice mould with these purees 
in layers, and then put the mould into the charged ice cave for one and 
a half hours ; then remove the lid and pour over the purees a little good 
clear meat jelly that is coloured with a few drops of carmine, or a little 
similarly coloured aspic could be used if more convenient. Replace the 




lid and return the mould to the cave for another fifteen minutes to allow 
the jelly to set, then dip the bottom part of the mould in cold water 
and slip the cream out, the red jelly being uppermost. Out the cream 
straight through into slices about one inch thick by two inches in length, 
using a hot wet knife for the purpose, and dish these up en couronne on 
a border of chopped aspic jelly. Serve for a cold entrea, or as a second- 
course or luncheon dish. 



254 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

White Puree for Egyptian Cream. Pound three ounces of cooked 
chicken till smooth, season it with a little coralline pepper and salt, mix 
with half a gill of chicken stock that is in a stiff jelly (of the consistency 
of aspic jelly made with two ounces of Marshall's gelatine to a quart 
of water, vol. i.), then rub through a tammy or hair sieve ; add to it a 
tablespoonful of stiffly-whipped cream, and use. 

Eed Pure for Egyptian Cream. Pound three ounces of lean 
cooked ham till smooth, then mix with stock as in previous recipe, colour 
with a few drops of carmine, season with a little coralline pepper and a 
teaspoonful of lemon juice, pass it through a tammy or sieve, and mix it 
to the desired consistency with cream, as in White Puree. 

Green Puree for Egyptian Cream. Pound till smooth three 
French gherkins, two capsicums, a teaspoonful of French capers, two 
blanched and sliced eschalots, two hard-boiled yolks of eggs, one table- 
spoonful of blanched spinach that has been pressed perfectly dry from 
water, and a little of Marshall's Apple Green ; pound these till smooth, 
mix with a little stock, tammy it, and mix as in previous recipe. 

Brown Puree for Egyptian Cream. Rub three ounces of pate de 
foie gras through a fine hair sieve, and mix with it some of the chicken 
stock in which a tablespoonful of stiff Brown sauce (vol. i.) has been 
mixed, then add cream and use. 

Curry PurEe for Egyptian Cream. Put in a saute pan two 
onions peeled and cut into tiny dice shapes, a chopped bayleaf and a 
pinch of chopped thyme, and fry them in one ounce of butter till a golden 
colour ; then mix in two pounded red chillies, a dessertspoonful of 
Marshall's Curry Powder, a teaspoonful of chutney and the juice of one 
lemon ; mix with half a pint of the chicken jelly and simmer on the 
stove till tender, then tammy and mix with cream, as in White Puree. 



Little Creams a la Pothuau 
Petites Cremes a la Pothuau 

Take some little oblong sandwich moulds, line them very thinly with 
aspic jelly (that made with two and a half ounces of Marshall's gelatine 
to one quart of water, vol. i.), then ornament each with a little truffle 
Cut in any pretty design ; set this with a very little aspic jelly, then 
mask the moulds over with Chaudfroid sauce (vol. i.) in alternate layers 
of red, white, and brown, and fill up the inside of the moulds with little 
stamped-out rounds of pate de foie gras, sliced truffle, mushroom, and 
chicken, arranging these overlapping 'each other; fill with some aspic 



OF EXTRA RECIPES COLD ENTREES 



255 



jelly and put aside to get cool ; then turn out the creams, by dipping 
the moulds into hot water, and dish them up on a border of aspic jelly 
or rice ; garnish with salsifies (or other nice cooked vegetables) in Tomato 
mayonnaise (see recipe), over which sprinkle a few shreds of truffle. 
Serve for a cold entree for dinner, or for any cold collation. Take a 
small tin of pate de foie gras, for ten to twelve persons, turn it out on to 
a plate, remove all the fat, cut it in slices about a sixth of an inch thick, 
stamp it out in rounds the size of a sixpence, and serve for an entree for 
dinner or luncheon. 



Little Asparagus Creauis a la Val-la-Reine 
Petites Gr&mes d'Asperges d I" \dl-hi-Heine 

Pound half a pound of cooked tender asparagus into a pulp. Take 
eight raw bearded sauce oysters, mix them with half a pint of the 
asparagus pulp, season with salt and a good pinch of Marshall's 
Coralline Pepper. Put into a stewpan a quarter-pint of oyster liquor, 
and half a gill of good light stock in which a teaspoonful of Liebig 
Company's Extract of Meat has been mixed; bring to the boil, dissolve 
in it a quarter-ounce of Marshall's gelatine, and add to the asparagus 




mixture ; rub altogether through a tammy or very fine hair sieve whilst 
hot, then add to the puree a wineglassful of white wine, one very finely- 
chopped eschalot, a gill of stiffly-whipped cream, and a few finely-cut 
shreds of truffle; mix up altogether, and pour into little glasses, 
prepared as below, and when the cream begins to thicken garnish the 
centre with cut truffle, mask over with a very thin coating of liquid 
aspic jelly, and serve on an entree or flat dish, on a paper for an entree 
for dinner or luncheon, or for second-course or ball-supper dish. 

Little Glasses for Asparagus Creams. Line the glasses very 
thinly with aspic jelly, ornament them about half-way up with rounds 
and diamonds of truffles arranged alternately, setting with a little more 
liquid aspic ; then line the insides of the glasses entirely with Aspic 
cream (vol. i.), and fill up with the mixture as instructed above. 



256 



MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 



Cream of Tomatoes a la Papillon 

Creme de Tomates d la Papillon 

Line some butterfly moulds thinly with aspic jelly and garnish 
them with truffle ; set this garnish with a little more aspic, and then 
fill up the moulds with Tomato cream, prepared as below. Leave them 
till set, then dip each into hot water and turn out on a cloth. Dish up 



, ^ ^%. %4 N^'^'^^ 



' : /'A- A^ : ^*Sjh/Wj*9 "Mifjk^ 






on plainly boiled cold rice (vol. i. page 32) that has been dusted over with 
a little coralline pepper and finely-chopped raw green parsley, and place 
here and there little blocks of aspic jelly. Serve for a second-course 
dish, or for any cold collation or ball supper. 

Puree for Cream of Tomatoes A la Papillon. Pound four large 
raw ripe tomatoes to a pulp. Mix with this the juice of one lemon, a 
pinch of salt and coralline pepper, two gills of gravy (prepared by taking 
half a pint of good-flavoured stock and adding to it a dessertspoonful of 
Bovril and a quarter of an ounce of Marshall's gelatine), and a wine- 
glassful of sherry ; then rub through a clean tammy, and mix with two 
tablespoonfuls of stiffly- whipped cream, a teaspoonful of raw parsley, 
and one finely-chopped eschalot. 



Little Bombs a la Visapore 
Petites Bombes a la Visapore 

Line some little bomb moulds thinly with aspic jelly, garnish them 
with lobster coral, finely-chopped raw green parsley, and white of egg 




prepared as below ; set this garnish with a little more jelly, then fill up 
the moulds with the ragout below, alid leave it till set ; then dip each 



OF EXTRA EECIPES COLD ENTREES 



257 



mould into hot water, pass a clean cloth over the bottoms to absorb any 
moisture, and dish them up in little square paper cases, garnish with 
small salad and chopped aspic, and arrange them on a dish-paper as 
shown in engraving. Serve for an entree in the fish course, or for 
second course, or cold collation. 

RagoOt for Bombs A la Visapore. Take eight raw oysters, three 
fillets of marinaded herrings, four washed and boned anchovies, a tea- 
spoonful of French mustard, ditto of mixed English mustard, a table- 
spoonful of tarragon vinegar, a dust of cayenne, two hard-boiled yolks 
of eggs, a dessertspoonful of salad oil, a teaspoonful of anchovy essence, 
and a few drops of carmine ; pound these together till smooth, then mix 
with half a pint of liquid aspic, and rub the whole through a tammy or 
fine hair sieve ; then mix in the cooked body of a lobster, that is cut 
into small dice shapes, and two tablespoonfuls of whipped cream, and 
use. 

Egg for Bombs a la Visapore. Rub the hard-boiled white of an 
egg through a wire sieve, and mix it with a dessertspoonful of cream 
and half a pint of liquid aspic jelly; stir together till it is beginning to 
set, then use. 

Souffle a la Marguerite 

Souffle a la Marguerite 

Take a large paper souffle case, about six inches in diameter, and 
surround it with a buttered paper, to stand about two inches above the 
paper case, using a little sealing-wax to fix the paper band ; take half a 
sheet of foolscap, make it into a cylinder about three inches in diameter, 




also using a little sealing-wax to hold it, and stand it in the centre of 
the souffle case. Take four large tomatoes, peel them and remove the 
pips, and pass them through the tammy ; to this puree add half a pint 
of aspic jelly (vol. i.) whilst liquid, a few drops of Marshall's Liquid 

s 



258 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

Carmine, and about a tablespoonful of tarragon vinegar ; well whip these 
together till spongy, then add a good half-pint of whipped cream, half 
a large breast of chicken, chopped fine, and three or four finely-chopped 
small truffles ; when well mixed pour this into the papered case between 
the two paper bands, and put it aside to set. Take half a pint of 
whipped cream, season with a little finely-chopped tarragon and chervil, 
a saltspoonful of mignonette pepper, a dust of coralline pepper, a pinch 
of salt, one small or half a large breast of chicken shredded, two or three 
chopped truffles, four large or six small mushrooms chopped, and some 
shredded tongue, in quantity about the same amount as the chicken, 
four or five cockscombs shredded, and a quarter of a pint of aspic jelly 
whilst liquid. Mix all well together, and pour the mixture into the 
cylinder of foolscap, so as to stand one and a half to two inches higher 
than the mixture already between the two paper bands ; place the souffle 
in an ice cave, or souffle cave surrounded with ice and salt, for about one 
hour ; when ready take it out, remove the paper bands, sprinkle some 
chopped truffle over the higher and inner part, and garnish the outer 
part with little bunches of chervil. The outer ring should stand one and 
a half to two inches higher than the souffle case, and should be of a pale 
reddish colour, the inner and higher part being whitish. Dish on a dish- 
paper or napkin. Instead of the cylinder of paper in which the second 
mixture is poured, a jar could be used at first, but the jar would have to 
be removed and a cylinder of paper substituted when the second mixture 
is ready to be poured in. 

Little Swans a la Phrygienne 
Petits Gygnes d la Phrygienne 

Line some swan moulds thinly with aspic, and for the bills put little 
strips of truffle, also tiny rounds for the eyes ; set these with a little 
aspic, then line with Aspic cream (vol. i.) and fill up the inside of the 




moulds with a puree prepared as below ; pour in a little liquid aspic to 
set, and then close up the moulds and leave them on ice till set ; dip each 
mould into hot water, turn out the swans on a clean cloth, and dish 
them up on a border of finely-chopped aspic jelly that is lightly coloured 



OF EXTRA RECIPES COLD ENTREES 259 

with a little sap green; garnish the dish with little timbals of tomatoes 
and olives prepared as below, and serve for any cold collation. 

Puree for Little Swans A la Phrygienne. Take, for eight to 
ten moulds, the contents of a small jar of pate de foie gras freed from 
fat, and six ounces of cooked chicken that has been pounded till quite 
smooth and rubbed through a fine hair sieve ; mix these well together 
in the mortar, and add half a pint of strong good-flavoured warm 
chicken or other light stock that would set into a stiff jelly when cold, 
and use when setting. 

Timbals for Little Swans A la Phrygienne. Take some little 
fluted timbal moulds and line half of them with liquid aspic jelly that 
is coloured with a little carmine, line the other half with liquid aspic 
jelly that is coloured with a little sap green. Fill up those that are 
lined with the red jelly with raw tomatoes that have been skinned, 
freed from pips, and seasoned with a little finely-chopped eschalot, 
tarragon, and chervil, and set this with more of the red jelly ; those 
that are lined with the green jelly fill up with a turned Spanish olive 
that is farced with Ham butter (see recipe), using a forcing bag and pipe 
for the purpose, setting this with more of the green jelly ; leave both 
coloured timbals till set, then turn out, and use as directed. 

Little Bombs of Oysters a la Versailles 
Petite* Bombes cCHuitres & l<> Versailles 

Line some little bomb moulds thinly with aspic jelly and garnish 
them at the tops with cut truffle, set this with aspic jelly and reline the 
moulds with aspic cream ; let this set, then fill up with a puree cf 




oysters prepared as below, and put the moulds aside on ice till the con- 
tents are set ; dip each mould into hot water and turn out the bombs on 
to an entree or flat dish, garnish with a little finely-chopped aspic jelly, 
and serve for an entree for dinner or luncheon or any cold service. 

Puree for Bombs of Oysters. For six to eight moulds take one and 
a half dozen bearded sauce oysters, and pound them till smooth with 
four well-washed and boned anchovies. Take one and a half gills of the 

s 2 



260 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

oyster liquor, strain it and mix with it a quarter-pint of good flavoured 
light stock in which a quarter of an ounce of Marshall's gelatine has been 
dissolved, a wineglassful of sherry, the juice of a lemon, a dust of coralline 
pepper, a teaspoonful of Liebig Company's Extract of Meat ; mix these 
together, then rub the whole through a clean tammy cloth slightly warm, 
add a quarter of a pint of stiffly-whipped cream, and use. 

Salad of Fillets of Sole a l'lmperiale 
Salade de Filets de Sole & l'lmperiale 

Cook the fillets of a sole, as in vol. i. page 89, and put them to press 
till cold ; stamp them out with a plain round cutter, and mask these 
rounds alternately with pink and white Mayonnaise aspic (see recipe). 
Line a nest mould with aspic jelly. Arrange the masked fillets alter- 
nately all over the mould, garnishing between each fillet with quarters of 
plovers' eggs, if in season (or, in their stead, chicken's eggs can be used), 
that are masked with chopped tarragon and truffle and French red 
chilli and set with aspic jelly ; when the mould is covered, line it all 
over again with aspic jelly to keep the garnish in its place ; then prepare 
a salad as follows : Pull the meat of a small cooked crab into pieces and 



mix it with three tablespoonfuls of Mayonnaise sauce (vol. i.), a table- 
spoonful of French tarragon vinegar, half a teaspoonful of chilli vinegar, 
a teaspoonful of French mustard, a saltspoonful of English mustard, a 
good pinch of chopped tarragon and chervil, two tablespoonfuls of 
whipped cream, and a saltspoonful of anchovy essence ; mix with this 
two and a half gills of aspic jelly (vol. i.), and pour into the mould when 
cooling ; put it aside on ice till set ; turn out of the mould and garnish 
round it with artichoke bottoms, strips of raw tomato, chopped aspic 
jelly, and sprigs of tarragon and chervil. Serve for second course, or for 
luncheon, or for any cold collation. 

Bomb of Orab a la Belle Helene 

Bombe de Crabe a la Belle Ilelene 

Line a bomb mould with aspic jelly, and ornament it with quarters 
of hard-boiled egg that have been garnished with tarragon, and chervil, 



OF EXTRA RECIPES COLD ENTREES 



261 



and lobster coral ; set these to the mould with jelly and fill up the centre 
with a mousse mixture as below ; leave on ice till set, then dip into hot 
water and turn out the bomb on to a dish ; garnish round with curried 
vegetables, and serve for an entree for dinner or any cold collation. 

Mousse Mixture for Bomb of Crab A la [ Belle Helene. 
Take the meat from a cooked fresh crab, pick it into crumbs with a 
fork, then put it in a basin and mix with it a teaspoonful of French 
mustard, a teaspoonful of mixed English mustard, a dust of cayenne, a 
dessertspoonful of French tarragon and chilli vinegar, a tablespoonful of 
Mayonnaise sauce, half-pint of stiffly-whipped cream, and a half-pint of 
aspic jelly (that has been reduced to that quantity by boiling down 
one pint, and when cool whipped till quite spongy) ; mix together, 
then use. 

Curried Vegetables fob Bomb of Crab a la Belle Helene. 
Fry two sliced onions in one ounce of butter till a nice golden colour, 
then mix with one ounce of glaze, a teaspoonful of Marshall's Curry 
Powder and the same of curry paste, and the juice of a lemon ; mix 
with one pint of stock and simmer till tender, then tammy, and when 
cold add a tin of prepared macedoine, strained from liquor ; set aside on 
ice till wanted, then use. 



Little Bombs of Lobster a la Berlin 
Petites Bombes de Homard & ho Berlin 

Take some little bomb moulds and thinly line them with aspic jelly, and 
ornament them at the tops with cut truffle to form a star, and round the 
middle of the mould arrange a row of little round pieces of truffle, and 
*orm a border of cut truffle and sprigs of chervil at the bottom of the 




mould ; mask the garnish all over with more aspic jelly, fill up the moulds 
with lobster puree as below, put them away to set, and when cold dip 
each mould into hot water ; turn out the bombs, and dish up on a border 
of aspic jelly ; the mould for the border may be ornamented with truffle 



262 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

and chervil to correspond with the garnish of the little moulds. Take a 
wax figure for the centre, and garnish round the figure with a nice 
Mayonnaise of cooked artichoke bottoms or other vegetables that are 
cut in little square pieces, or cooked salsifies (vol. i. page 239), using when 
cold and seasoning with oil and lemon juice instead of butter ; also place 
little sprigs of chervil and tarragon round the top near the figure, and 
chopped aspic jelly round the dish. 

Puree of Lobster for Little Bombs A la Berlin. Take six 
ounces of freshly-cooked lobster, four anchovies boned, a saltspoonful of 
carmine, a teaspoonful of anchovy essence, a dust of coralline pepper, 
and one good tablespoonful of salad oil ; pound altogether, and rub 
through a fine hair sieve or tammy, and mix with the puree two and a 
half gills of whipped aspic jelly and a gill of stiffly-whipped cream ; put 
into the moulds with a bag and a plain pipe, and set aside till firm. 



Salad of Lobster a la Rmsse 
Salade de Ilomard d la Rtisse 

Line some little fancy jelly-moulds thinly with strong aspic jelly, and 
ornament the top of each with a little Mayonnaise aspic (vol. i. page 27), 
using a forcing bag and pipe for the purpose ; arrange round this some 
French capers and little picked leaves of chervil, and fill up the moulds 
with cooked lobster that is cut in little dice shapes, a little cut French 
gherkin, and aspic jelly ; leave till set, then dip each mould into hot 



water, pass a clean cloth over the bottoms to absorb any moisture, and 
turn out. Prepare a border of aspic jelly, and when set turn it out in 
the same manner as the small moulds, and dish up the little moulds on 
it ; place a wax figure in the centre, and fill up all round this with a nice 
Mayonnaise of lettuce and any nice pieces of lobster, seasoned with salad 
oil and tarragon vinegar, arranging the Mayonnaise on the top by means 
of a forcing bag and a rose pipe ; sprinkle over with a little hard-boiled 



OF EXTRA EECIPES COLD ENTREES 



263 



yolk of egg (that has been rubbed through a sieve), lobster coral, and 
quarters of plovers' eggs when in season, or prepared crayfish bodies, 
and serve for a second-course, ball-supper, or luncheon dish. 

Chartreuse of Fish, a la Havraise 
Chartreuse tie Poissov d I" 1 1 m- raise 

Take the fillets of a sole, cooked as in vol. i. page 89, put them to press 
till cool, then cut them out with a plain round cutter, ornament half of 
them with chopped tarragon, chervil, or parsley, and the remaining half 
with coral and truffle, setting the garnish with a little liquid aspic jelly. 
Line a chartreuse mould with aspic jelly, and arrange the rounds of sole 




all over it, as shown in the engraving ; set this with aspic, then fill up 
the centre with the mixture below ; put the mould aside till this is set, 
then dip the mould into hot water, turn out the chartreuse on to a cold 
dish, and serve for a luncheon or second-course dish. The dish may be 
garnished with any nice salad, such as lettuce or endive, mixed with a 
little salad oil, tarragon and chilli vinegar, and chopped tarragon. 

Mixture for Chartreuse of Fish a la Havraise. Take half a pint 
of cleansed, picked shrimps, the trimmings from the sole cut into dice 
shapes, two peeled tomatoes, four cooked artichoke bottoms, and twelve 
raw bearded sauce oysters, all similarly cut up ; add a little tarragon 
and chervil, mix with half a pint of liquid aspic jelly and two large 
tablespoonfuls of Mayonnaise sauce (vol. i.), stir altogether on ice till 
beginning to set, then pour into the mould as directed. 



264 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 



CHAPTER VII 
BREAKFAST AND LUNCHEON DISHES AND CURRIES 

Grilled Kidneys a la ISTesle 
Rognons Grilles a la Nesle 

Take some mutton kidneys, remove the cores and skins and split 
them open ; allow one to each person, season (the cut side up) with a 
little salt and Marshall's Coralline Pepper, finely-chopped eschalot and 
parsley ; place a very thinly cut piece of fat raw bacon on each over the 
seasoning, pass a small skewer through the kidney and so attach the 
bacon to it. Then dip into some warm butter, and from that into 
browned breadcrumbs, and grill or broil for about eight to ten minutes ; 
then take up carefully and arrange on a hot dish on a potato puree 
(vol. i. page 35). Place a very thinly cut slice^of lemon in the centre, 
and on the lemon put a raw bearded oyster, sprinkled over with a little 
of Marshall's Coralline Pepper and raw chopped green parsley. Pour 
Ne3le sauce (see recipe) round the dish, and use for a dinner or luncheon 
service as an entree. 

Kidneys with Celery 
Rognons an Geleri 

Take five or six sticks ot well-washed, crisp, fresh celery, put it to 
braise as in recipe for ' Braised Celery ' (vol. i. page 239), and when cooked 
split each stem into four pieces, then place the stems lengthwise in a pile 
on a fried square crouton of bread. Have five to eight mutton kidneys 
freed from skin and core, cut them up into slices crosswise, put them in 
a saute pan that has been made hot, and one ounce of butter melted 
in it ; season with pepper and salt, and a little finely-chopped eschalot ; 
fry quickly on the fire for about three or four minutes, then drain, and 
put into the same pan the liquor from the celery braise, that has been 
freed from fat and which should be about one and a half gills ; stir into 
it a quarter-ounce of arrowroot that has been mixed with a wineglassful 
of sherry, and stir together till boiling ; then add the kidneys, bring 
to the boil, and pour all over the braised celery, and serve at once for 
a luncheon or second-course dish. 



OF EXTRA RECIPES BREAKFAST DISHES, ETC. 265 

Kidneys a la Dufferin 
Rognons d la Buffer in 

Take some mutton kidneys, allowing one to each person ; remove 
thejskin and core and cut them first into slices, then into little dice 
shapes ; for four kidneys put one ounce of butter into a stewpan with 
one eschalot chopped fine, four ounces of fat and lean raw ham or bacon 
cut up in little dice shapes, season with a little salt and white pepper. 
Place the pan on the stove, and saute the contents over a quick fire for 
about five minutes ; then strain them from the liquor, and add to the 
kidneys four tablespoonfuls of boiling brown Caper sauce (vol. i.). Re- 
warm in the bain-marie, then dish up in a pile on a hot dish. Surround 
them with crisply-fried potatoes that are cut in little dice shapes, 
sprinkle over them a little chopped parsley, and place in each corner of 
the dish a tablespoonful of small fried croutons of bread, and serve for 
breakfast or luncheon. 

Kidneys a la Hamburg 

Rognons a la Hambounj 

Take six or eight fresh mutton kidneys, remove the skins and cores 
and cut each into four pieces lengthwise, season with salt, pepper, 
chopped raw parsley, and fresh mushrooms, place them in a hot buttered 
saute pan, laying them flat, and fry for three or four minutes, duriDg 
which time turn them once only ; take them up and drain. Take some 
fresh mushrooms that have been washed and peeled and trimmed into 
neat form and then simmered for about fifteen minutes in enough 
Champagne sauce (vol. i.) to cover them; arrange the kidneys and 
mushrooms alternately on a hot dish, and then pour the sauce from the 
mushrooms all over them, and garnish the dish at the corners with 
bunches of very tiny fried Croquette potatoes (vol. i.), using them 
plainly. Serve at once for an entree for dinner or luncheon while quite 
hot. 

Kidneys a l'Orient 
Rognons a l'Orient 

Take some fresh mutton kidneys, say six to eight, allowing one, if 
large, to each person ; skin, core, and slice crosswise about a quarter of 
an inch thick, season with salt and pepper, put them into a hot buttered 
saute pan and fry over a quick fire for about three minutes ; then strain 
off and put into a sauce prepared as below, and just bring to the boil ' r 
then dish up in a border of red Pilau rice (see recipe), sprinkle a little 



266 MKS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

finely-chopped parsley 07er, and serve for a luncheon or dinner entree 
while quite hot. 

Sauce for Kidneys a l'Orient. Put into a stewpan one ounce of 
butter, three veiy finely sliced onions, a pinch of chopped bayleaf, thyme, 
and salt, fry on a moderate fire for about fifteen minutes ; then add a 
good pinch of Marshall's Coralline Pepper, the strained juice of a lemon, 
a quarter of an ounce of curry powder, two ounces of lean raw bacon cut 
up into dice and dusted well with Creme de Kiz, a dozen French turned 
olives, and one pint of Brown sauce (vol. i.). Boil for about forty minutes 
till to a thick creamy consistency ; then add the prepared kidneys, just 
reboil, and dish up at once. 

Kidneys with Oysters a l'Americaine 
Rognons aux II nitres d l'Americaine 

Take some mutton kidneys, remove the skin and core and cut them 
in slices crosswise, season them with Marshall's Coralline Pepper and 
salt, chopped eschalot and parsley ; then pour over them a little warm 
butter, and dip them at once into freshly-made white breadcrumbs. 
Season some raw bearded oysters similarly to the kidneys and arrange 
them alternately on some small skewers, allowing four pieces of kidney 
and three oysters to each person ; place these on a well-buttered tin in a 
quick oven for about twelve minutes, keeping them basted occasionally 
with butter ; then take up, sprinkle them over with a little chopped 
parsley, and dish in a bed of Saratoga potatoes, with sauce, prepared as 
below, round the dish. Serve for breakfast, luncheon, &c. 

Sauce for Kidneys with Oysters a l'Americaine. Put into a 
stewpan one ounce of fine flour and one ounce of butter, and fry together 
without browning ; then add the juice of a lemon, a tiny dust of 
Marshall's Coralline Pepper, two large sliced tomatoes, the liquor from 
the oysters, and a pinch of salt. Boil up together, and cook on the side 
of the stove for about ten minutes ; then rub through the tammy or a 
fine hair sieve, and rewarm ; add a pinch of chopped parsley, and a few 
drops of carmine to brighten the colour, and use. 

Kidneys a la Treville 

Rognons a la Treville 

Take five or six mutton kidneys, remove the skins and cores and 
slice them crosswise into pieces about a quarter of an inch thick ; put 
them in a saute pan with one ounce of hot good butter, season with a 



OF EXTRA RECIPES BREAKFAST DISHES, ETC. 267 

pinch of salt and Marshall's Coralline Pepper, a pinch of finely-chopped 
bayleaf and thyme, and one eschalot ; fry over a quick fire for three or 
four minutes, then strain off from the gravy in the pan and allow the 
kidney to drain for two or three minutes. Put into the saute pan a 
wineglassful of sherry, four Christiania anchovies that have been boned 
and rubbed through a sieve ; add to these a half-pint of thick Espagnol 
sauce (vol. i.), three ounces of lean cooked ham that has been cut up 
into fine Julienne shreds, and four or five cooked button mushrooms cut 
in a similar way. Boil these for about three minutes, then dust the kid- 
neys over with a little fine flour that has been sifted, reboil in the sauce, 
and then turn out on a bed of spinach puree (vol. i.), or any other nice 
vegetable, such as puree of potato. Serve the dish for an entree for 
dinner or luncheon while quite hot. 



Spanish. Onions with. Sheep's Kidneys 
Oignons d VEspagne aux Rognons de Mouton 

Peel two or three large Spanish onions, and with a large vegetable 
scoop or cutter, about one and a half to two inches in diameter, remove 
the insides of the onions to within half an inch of the bottom ; season 
them inside and out with a little salt, Marshall's Coralline Pepper, and 
a little very finely chopped thyme and bayleaf. Have some small 
sheep's kidneys (allowing two to each person), free them from skin and 
core, split them in halves lengthwise, season them in the same manner 
as the onions, and place four pieces in each onion where the opening was 
made. Chop the cores of the onions very finely, and put about a table- 
spoonful of it into a basin with one ounce of fresh white breadcrumbs ; 
season with a little salt and coralline pepper ; mix it with one large 
raw yolk of egg, and add a little finely-chopped raw parsley, and cover 
over the kidney with this. Put into a stewpan a pat of butter, one 
ounce of finely-chopped raw lean bacon, and the remains of the raw 
minced onion ; place the farced onions in with this, cover over each a little 
piece of cleansed pork caul, put the cover on the pan, place it on the 
stove, and let the contents fry for fifteen to twenty minutes, taking care 
that they do not burn ; add half a pint of stock and a quarter-pint of 
good Brown sauce (vol. i.), bring it to the boil, then remove the pan 
into a moderate oven, and braise the onions for two and a half to three 
hours, during which time keep them well basted, and add more sauce 
and stock as that in the pan reduces. When cooked, dish up the onions 
on a hot dish on a puree of potatoes ; remove the caul, brush the onions 
over with warm glaze, sprinkle them with grated Parmesan cheese, and 



268 



MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 



crisp them with the hot salamander. Remove any fat from the sauce in 
which the onions were cooked ; add to the sauce a tablespoonful of 
grated Parmesan, half a wineglassful of sherry or mushroom liquor; 
stir over the fire till it boils, then pour round the onions. There should 
be at least half a pint of sauce to serve. Serve hot for a luncheon or 
second-course dish. 

Sauted Liver 
Foie Saute 

Take some nice calf's liver, cut from it some slices about a quarter- 
inch thick, trim into nice neat shapes about four inches long, season 
with salt, pepper, a little finely-chopped cooked lean ham and eschalot, 
sprinkle over it a little finely-sifted flour on both sides, and fry it in a 
well-buttered saute pan till a nice brown colour, turning it only once 
while cooking. Take up, and arrange the liver straight down an entree or 
flat dish, on a border of potato puree (vol. i.) that has been arranged 
on the dish by means of a forcing bag with a large rose pipe ; pour 
Nesle sauce round the dish, sprinkle over the liver a little coralline 
pepper and raw chopped parsley, and serve while quite hot for an entree 
for dinner or luncheon. 

Calf's Liver en Poup^e 

Foie de Veau en Poupee 

Cut some nice fresh calf's liver into slices about a quarter of an inch 
thick, and cut these again into pieces about one inch and a half square, 
dip each piece into warm butter and season with coralline pepper, salt, 
and chopped parsley. Cut some very thin slices of raw streaky bacon 




about the same size as the liver, make a little slit in each piece with a 
small knife, and arrange bacon and liver alternately on little wooden 
skewers, allowing one skewer to each person. Whip one or two raw 
eggs, according to the number of skewers to be dressed, and mix with 
the egg a finely-chopped bayleaf, a sprig of thyme, one eschalot, and a 



OF EXTRA RECIPES BREAKFAST DISHES, ETC. 269 

little coralline pepper and salt ; dip the prepared skewers into this and 
then into freshly-made white breadcrumbs, and fry for four or five 
minutes in clean boiling fat, when they should be a pretty golden 
colour. Take up and, if wished, replace the wooden skewers by silver 
ones, sprinkle the meat with a little finely-chopped Traw green parsley, 
dish up in a pile as in engraving, and serve with Nesle sauce round for 
an entree, or second-course or luncheon dish. 



Mock Pate de Foie Gras 
Pate de Foie Gras Faux 

Take one and a half pound of livers, either game or poultry or 
calves', and half a pound of fat and lean ham or bacon, and cut up in 
little dice shapes ; chop up very fine one ordinary sized onion, a good 
sprig or two of parsley, thyme, and three or four bayleaves ; add about 
twelve crushed peppercorns, black and white, a good pinch of salt, and 
put these in a saute pan with four ounces of butter, make it warm, then 
strew in the livers, &c. ; fry them altogether for about eight or ten 
minutes, then pound in the mortar till quite smooth and rub through a 
fine wire sieve. 

If using this for potting, press it into a clean jar and cover over the 
top with a piece of water paste (vol. i.), and stand it in the oven in a 
tin containing boiling water, and let it cook with the water boiling 
round it for about half an hour ; put it away to get cold, and the next 
day fill up the jar with clarified butter and keep in a cool place. The 
puree which is passed through the sieve can be used as a puree of liver 
for farcing birds, when a little chopped truffle and three yolks of eggs 
should be well mixed into it. 



Fillets of Beef a la Perigueux 

I'' i lets de Bceuf a la Perigueux 

Cut a piece of lean fillet of beef into slices about half an inch thick, 
bat them out with a cold wet chopping knife, trim them into neat 
little rounds about two and a half inches in diameter ; place them in a 
buttered saute pan, season them with pepper and salt, and fry them 
quickly over a brisk fire for three to five minutes. Dish them on a hot 
dish on a bed of cooked sliced tomatoes, pour over them, the prepared 
sauce, and serve as an entree for luncheon. 

Sauce foh Fillets of Beef A la Pekigueux. Put into a stawpan 



270 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

one wineglassful of sherry, the juice of one lemon, half an ounce of 
glaze, a little chopped truffle, and one and a half gills of good reduced 
Espagnol sauce (vol. i.) ; boil for a few minutes, and use. 



Fillets of Beef a la Princesse Louise 
Filets de Boeuf a la Princesse Louise 

Take a piece of lean fillet of beef, cut it into nice slices, and trim 
into little rounds about two and a half inches in diameter, lard round 
the edges of each with one row of lardons of fat raw bacon, season 
with salad oil, chopped eschalot, parsley, salt, and coralline pepper; 
place the fillets in a well-buttered saute pan with the lardons uppermost, 
fry the underneath side over a quick fire for two or three minutes, 
then stand the pan in a quick oven to finish cooking the fillets for 
another three to five minutes. Then take up, brush over with warm 
glaze, lay them on a puree of potatoes on an entree dish, place on the 
centre of each a piece of Anchovy butter (vol. i. page 38) about half 
the size of a walnut, and on this arrange a bearded oyster that has been 
warmed in the oysters' liquor between two plates over boiling water ; 
sprinkle over this a little more warm glaze, pour the prepared sauce 
round the dish, and serve quite hot for breakfast, luncheon, or dinner. 

Sauce for Fillets of Beef a la Princesse Louise. Mix the 
liquor from the oysters with a teaspoonful of warm glaze, half a pint of 
boiling Veloute sauce (vol. i.), the pulp of one raw ripe tomato, and a 
tablespoonful of strained lemon juice ; boil up together, and use. 

Sauted Fillets of Beef a la Claudine 
Filets de Boeuf Sautes d la Claudine 

Take a piece of lean fillet of beef, free it from skin and cut into nice 
neat little fillets, put them into a buttered saute pan, sprinkle in a 
little chopped fresh mushroom, chopped lean ham, parsley, and eschalot, 
and saute over a quick fire for four or five minutes ; then take up, dish 
each fillet on a little crouton of fried bread, pour over them the pre- 
pared sauce and serve, for luncheon, &c. 

Sauce for Fillets of Beef A la Claudine. Put into a stewpan 
a wineglassful of sherry, a quarter-pint of Brown sauce (vol. i.), one ounce 
of glaze, a tablespoonful of strained lemon juice, a dust of coralline 
pepper, just bring to the boil ; stir into it two ounces of fresh butter, 
a few drops of carmine, a dessertspoonful of French capers and finely- 
chopped raw green parsley, and use. - 



OF EXTRA RECIPES BREAKFAST DISHES, ETC. 271 

Sauted Fillets of Beef a la Paysanne 
Filets de Boeiif Sautes d la Paysanne 

Remove any fat and skin from one and a half to two pounds of fillet 
of beef, cut it into slices an inch thick, and place them in a well-buttered 
saute pan ; season with coralline pepper, salt, and a little chopped fresh 
mushroom, add a piece of the fat from the fillet, and saute them for five 
or six minutes, turning them only once during the cooking ; then 
remove the fillets, add to the pan in which they were cooked a wineglass- 
ful of white wine, two tablespoonfuls of oyster liquor, the juice of one 
lemon, and one ounce of butter that has been mixed with half an ounce of 
Marshall's Creme de Riz, stir till it boils ; stir into it an ounce of glaze, 
one dozen raw sauce oysters that have been bearded and cut into little 
dice shapes ; dish up the fillets on an entree dish on a potato or mush- 
room puree (vol. i.). Pour the sauce over them, sprinkle over them 
some shredded French red chillies, and serve at once for breakfast, dinner, 
or luncheon. 

Rump Steak a la Conti 
Boeuf d f" Oonti 

Take a nice piece of steak, about one and a half to two inches thick, 
allowing about two pounds for five or six people, and by means of a 
sharp-pointed knife make a pocket in it from the side almost the entire 
length of the meat about five inches deep ; place on the bottom of this 
pocket a puree of mushroom, then fill it up with the ragout, keeping 
the meat in its natural form as nearly as possible. When full, sew up 
the opening with a needle and string ; place the steak on a dish, and 




season it with salad oil and salt and chopped eschalot. Put a grilliron 
on a brisk fire, and when it is hot place the steak on it and cook it for 
about twenty minutes; then take up on to the dish on which it is to be 
served, remove the string, brush over the steak with warm glaze, sprinkle 
it with grated Parmesan cheese, and brown it with the salamander ; then 
sprinkle it with Marshall's Coralline Pepper. Serve Conti sauce (see 



272 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY ROOK 

recipe) round the dish, and garnish the steak all round and over the top 
(as in engraving) with turned olive potatoes (see recipe). This makes 
an excellent dish for a luncheon party, or in place of a joint for 
dinner. 

RagoOt for Steak A la Conti. Remove the beards from twelve 
sauce oysters, and cut up the latter into little dice shapes, add to this 
six boned Christiania anchovies that have been rubbed through a sieve, 
a good pint of Marshall's Coralline Pepper, two ounces of fresh warm 
butter mixed with one ounce of freshly-made white breadcrumbs, the 
juice of one lemon, one ounce of warm glaze, and a pinch of salt ; mix 
up altogether, then use. 



Grilled Rump Steak, Capsicum Sauce 
B am f grille, Sauce Piment 

Take a nice piece of tender rump steak, season it with salt and 
Marshall's Coralline Pepper, a little finely-chopped eschalot, a little salad 
oil or warm butter ; put it to grill or broil, forjabout two pounds, say for 
fifteen to twenty minutes, according to the size and thickness. When 
the steak is cooked take it up on a hot dish, brush over with warm 
thin glaze, and pour round it a boiling Capsicum sauce (see recipe). 
Garnish each end of the steak with some braised carrots (vol. i.), that 
have been turned with a garnishing knife, and serve for luncheon or 
dinner in the place of a joint. Veal steak is excellent prepared in the 
same way. 

Beef a la Barcelone 

Boeuf a la Barcelone 

Take a piece of tender rump or fillet steak, about one pound, cut it 
up in little dice shapes with hall a pound of fat and lean raw ham or 
streaky bacon ; put them ina stewpan with one ounce of butter, a quarter- 
ounce of Marshall's Coralline Pepper, six onions peeled^and cut up in 
dice shapes, a saltspoonful of chopped bayleaf and thyme, six Christiania 
anchovies boned and rubbed through a sieve, two large tomatoes cut up 
in dice shapes; fry together for twenty minutes. Then add two ounces 
of Creme de Riz, one and a half pints of good brown stock, a few drops 
of carmine, simmer for one and a half hours, keep skimmed and free 
from grease ; add a little more stock if that in the pan becomes too 
thick. When cooked, dish up on a bed of Pilau rice (see recipe), and 
serve for a luncheon or dinner dish.-" 



OF EXTRA RECIPES-BREAKFAST DISHES, ETC. 273 

Scotch Collops 

Boenf emirice d VJEcossaise 

Take three-quarters of a pint of Brown sauce (vol. i.), add to it a 
dessertspoonful of chopped parsley, a sprig of thyme, two finely-chopped 
bayleaves, two eschalots, two fresh mushrooms that have been washed 
and chopped finely, a tablespoonful of mushroom ketchup, and the 
strained juice of one lemon ; boil these ingredients together for about 
ten minutes, then add one and a half pounds of raw lean beef, such as 
steak or the fillet of beef, cut up in small square pieces, add a little salt 
and pepper and simmer gently for about thirty minutes, occasionally 
stirring it during the cooking. Turn out on to a hot entree dish and 
serve for luncheon or dinner. Veal or mutton can be served in a similar 
manner. 

Potted Beef 

Terrine de Boeuf 

Take about one pound of cold roast beef, half a pound of fresh butter, 
one pound of the root-end of tongue, and half a pound of the under- 
neath part of ham (the remains of a ham will do for this dish) ; have a 
good tablespoonful of mixed herbs, such as thyme, parsley, and bayleaf, 
that are chopped fine, two eschalots chopped, a saltspoonful of mignonette 
pepper, about half a saltspoonful of salt, two ounces fresh mushrooms 
which are washed and dried after weighing, two whole eggs, one ounce 
of warm glaze, two gills of good meat stock, a wineglassful of claret, and 
a saltspoonful of carmine. Pound each kind of meat separately in the 
mortar, then mix together and add the mushrooms and butter ; pound 
again well until they are all smooth, then add the seasoning and eggs, 
lastly add the liquid ; when well mixed together pass through a wire 
sieve. Press it well into any nice jar that would do to send to the 
dining-room, and stand this in a tin or saucepan containing water in 
the oven, having the jar covered over to prevent the top getting dry ; 
let it remain, with the water boiling round it, for thirty minutes, then 
take off the cover and fill up the tin or jar with clarified butter ; when 
quite cold, serve for breakfast, luncheon, &c, or for sandwiches or a side 
dish. 

Slices of Ox-Tongue au G-ratin 
Tranches de Langue au Gratin 

Butter a dish and spread it over with a thin layer of Veloute sauce 
(vol. i.), arrange on this some slices of ox-tongue, cut about one-eighth 

T 



274 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

of an inch thick, and cover the slices all over with a mixture made of a 
dessertspoonful of capers, four boned Christiania anchovies, four stoned 
olives, and two French gherkins, all chopped fine ; cover all over with 
more Veloute sauce, sprinkle the top with a few browned breadcrumbs, 
place the dish in a tin containing a little hot water, and stand it in the 
oven for about fifteen minutes, and then serve quite hot. 



Ox-Heart a la Francaise 

Cceur de Boeuf a la Francaise 

Remove all the pipe from an ox-heart that has been hung for two or 
three days, and fill it quite full with Herb farce (vol. i.), fasten it with 
needle and string, rub the heart well over with warm dripping, fold it 
up in a buttered paper, tie it securely, and bake or roast for three to 
three and a half hours ; then remove the paper and string, dish up on a 
veiy hot dish, garnish with a puree of spinach (vol. i.) and small 
cooked tomatoes or slices of same and olive potatoes (vol. i.), and serve 
with brown Mustard sauce (vol. i.) in a sauceboat for dinner or lun- 
cheon. Sheep's hearts may be dressed in the same way, cooking one 
hour only. 

Potted Grouse 
Terrine de Grouse 

Take two or three picked and cleansed raw grouse (old birds being 
used if wished), remove all the skin and cut the meat from the bones ; 
pound this till quite smooth, then for each pound of grouse pound a 
quarter of a pound of perfectly fresh fat and lean raw pork and two 
ounces of grouse livers and mix it with the grouse ; season all with salt, 
a little pepper, a very little finely-chopped bay leaf and some thyme ; 
then rub all together through a coarse wire sieve, and put the mixture 
into a basin with two wineglassfuls of sherry and two raw whites of eggs, 
stirnng well together. Remove the breast fillets from one or two young 
grouse, free them from skin, season them lightly with salt, and then 
steep them in sherry. Line a terrine or jar about half an inch thick 
with the farce prepared as above, then place in some of the fillets and 
cover them over with some of the farce, pressing this between the hands 
or on a board with cold water as it is taken from the basin, as this will 
make the meat cut perfectly firm and close when cold ; continue this pro- 
cess, sprinkling in the jar, if liked, a few sliced cooked truffles, until the jar 
is full, then sprinkle the top with sherry, and place on this a piece of fat 



OF EXTRA RECIPES BREAKFAST DISHES, ETC. 275 

bacon sufficient to cover it ; put a well-buttered paper over the bacon, 
and cover down the jar with a stiff water paste about one inch thick ; 
tie some paper over the paste and stand the jar in a stewpan containing 
boiling water to three-fourths the depth of the jar, place the stewpan on 
the stove and watch the water reboil, then place the stewpan uncovered 
in the oven and let the water simmer for one hour and a quarter, then 
take up and set the terrine aside till cold. Take a quarter of a pound of 
butter and clarify it ; remove the paste of the terrine when it is cool, 
and pour the butter over the top of the pU$ to about a quarter of an 
inch thick ; let this set, then replace the lid, set it aside till wanted, and 
dish up the jar on a napkin or paper, and serve. 



Nerac Terrine 

Terrine de Nerac 

Take one or two fresh rabbits, skin and cleanse them and remove all 
the meat ; weigh it, then pound or pass it twice through a mincing 
machine with double its weight of raw fat and lean ham or fresh pork ; 
add a quarter-pound of any cleansed game or poultry livers to each 
pound of meat ; rub all through a coarse wire sieve, then put the 
mixture into a basin and season it with pepper and salt, very finely 
chopped bay leaf and thyme. Line a terrine jar all round with the 
prepared farce about one inch thick, press it well to the jar with the 




hand (which should be constantly dipped into cold water) so as to make 
the mixture perfectly smooth ; take some raw fillets of rabbit or chicken, 
or any kind of game or poultry, season them with pepper and salt and 
chopped herbs, and then proceed to fill up the jar thus : Put a layer of 
the forcemeat and then a layer of the fillets, sprinkling them now and 
then with sherry, and in the centre put the contents of a small jar of 
pate de foie gras, and cover over the fillets with a layer of very finely cut 
slices of raw fat bacon ; continue in this manner till the jar is full, then 

T 2 



276 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

put on the top two or three bayleaves, a slice of bacon and a little sherry ; 
cover with a stiff water paste (vol. i.) about an inch thick, and tie a 
piece of buttered paper down over it. Stand the jar in a tin containing 
boiling water, place it in a moderate oven for about two and a half hours, 
when it should be removed and set aside till cold ; remove the paste 
and bayleaf and bacon, pour a little warm lard over the top, and when this 
is set clean the jar and place it on a dish on a folded napkin or on a 
dish-paper. Serve for a ball supper, luncheon, or breakfast dish ; it can 
also be used for serving in scallops, and can be masked with aspic if 
liked. The quantities given above are sufficient for ten to twelve 
persons, and if kept in a cool place will keep good for a week or so. If 
the lid is put on and fastened down air-tight the contents will keep a 
considerable time. The bones taken from the rabbits can be used for 
soups, sauces, &c. 

Terrine Pie a la Venitienne 

Pctte en Terrine d la Venitienne 

Take a picked and singed pheasant, cut it into neat joints, season 
with a little salt and white pepper, dust over with arrowroot that has 
been rubbed through a hair sieve ; put it in a stewpan, flavour with 
two wineglassfuls of sherry, the juice of two lemons, and one pint of 
good-flavoured game gravy as below, sprinkle with two finely-chopped 
eschalots. Tie up in a piece of muslin a large bunch of herbs (thyme, 
parsley, bayleaf), two ounces of lean cooked ham, a pinch of coriander 
and cumin seed ; put this in the pan and boil altogether for about half 
an hour ; then take up and arrange with sliced truffle and button mush- 
rooms in the terrine, pour in the prepared gravy, cover with potato 
prepared as for borders (vol. i. page 33), brush over with raw beaten-up 
egg, dust it over with brown breadcrumbs, stand the jar in a tin con- 
taining boiling water, and bake in a quick oven for one and a quarter 
hours, when the potato should be a nice brown colour. Dish up on a 
flat dish on a paper or napkin, sprinkle with a little finely-chopped raw 
parsley and coralline pepper, and serve at once as a hot dish for dinner, 
luncheon, or ball suppers. Other birds, such as snipe, partridge, &c, 
can be dressed in the same way. 

Gravy for Terrine Pie A la Venitienne Take the gravy from 
the cooking, strain it, and if not as thick as single cream it must be 
thickened by mixing into it a dessertspoonful of arrowroot that has been 
mixed with a quarter-pint of mushroom liquor, then stir altogether over 
the fire till it boils, and use. 



OF EXTRA RECIPES BREAKF AST DISHES, ETC. 277 

Terrine of Hare a la Francaise 

Terrine de Lievre a la Frangaise 

Remove the meat from a cleansed skinned hare and cut it into nice 
thin pieces ; bat them out with a cold wet chopping-knife, season them 
with salt, coralline pepper, finely-chopped eschalot, and chopped parsley, 
bayleaf, thyme, basil, and marjoram. Take some herb farce (vol. i.) 
and arrange it in a jar alternately with some thinly-cut slices of raw 
fat and lean bacon, a layer of the hare fillets, and one of raw fresh 
pork or beef farce. Sprinkle between each layer some sherry and good- 
flavoured stock made from the hare bones, as in ' Terrine Pie a la 
Venitienne,' and when the jar is full place a slice of raw fat bacon on 
the top ; cover with a buttered paper, stand the jar in a tin containing 
boiling water, and cook in a moderate oven for one and a quarter hours, 
keeping the water always near to the top of the jar. When cooked take 
up, set aside till cold, pour a little warm lard over the top, wipe round 
the jar, and serve on a dish-paper or napkin for breakfast, luncheon, 
dinner, or for any cold collation. Venison is excellent prepared in the 
same way. 

Farce of Pork or Beef for Terrine of Hare a la Francaise. 
For one large hare pass two pounds of pork or beef twice through a 
mincing machine, then rub it through a coarse wire sieve, and mix it 
in a basin with two wineglassfuls of port or claret, two wineglassfuls 
of sherry, and two whole raw eggs ; season with salt and pepper, mix 
together, and use. 

Hare a la Bouquette 
Lievre .& la Bouquette 

Skin and cleanse a perfectly young hare without washing it and 
preserve the blood, bone it and remove every particle of skin, cut it in 
neat pieces about one inch square, and place them on a dish ; then 
sprinkle with finely-chopped bayleaf, thyme, parsley, fresh mushrooms 
that have been washed, basil, marjoram, and eschalot ; roll each piece in 
very finely-chopped fresh beef suet and then into Marshall's Creme de 
Riz, season them with a little mignonette pepper and a very slight 
sprinkling of salt ; then take a silver or china souffle case and arrange 
all the pieces closely in it. Mix the blood of the hare in a basin with 
one and a half ounces of butter and a tablespoonful of Bovril, pour this 
into the dish over the hare, and then fill up within an inch of the top 
with port or claret ; put on the hare pieces of slitted fat bacon, and 
cover the top over with a water paste (vol. i.) about one inch thick, 



278 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

place the souffle dish in a tin containing boiling water and put it into a 
moderate oven for one and a half hours. When cooked take up and place 
on a hot dish on a napkin, remove the bacon and water paste, and when 
about to serve pour two or three tablespoonfuls of brandy very gently 
over the hare and set it alight. Any 'of the hare left from the dinner 
would be nice to serve for a cold dish, when a little chopped aspic 
should be placed on the top. 

Curried Rabbit a la Madras 

Lapin en Kari a la Madras 

Peel and slice four large onions, put them into a stew pan with two 
ounces of butter or fat, and fry till a good brown colour ; then mix with 
them one large tablespoonful of Marshall's Curry Powder, a dessertspoon- 
ful of curry paste, and a tablespoonful of chutney, the juice of one large 
lemon (to be about two tablespoonfuls), two sour apples chopped finely, a 
large tablespoonful of Marshall's Creme de Riz, a bunch of herbs (thyme, 
parsley, and bayleaf), and half a grated cocoanut ; mix up altogether, 
and add a teaspoonful of salt, and enough stock to cover, then add the 
rabbit that has been washed, dried, and cut up in joints, and cook 
for an hour ; then remove the meat, and tammy, or rub the sauce 
through a fine hair sieve, then make it all hot together, and dish up in 
a border of curry rice (vol. i.), and have some rice handed on a plate on 
a napkin. 

Curried Rabbit (Dry) a la Mango 
Kari sec de Lapereau a la Mango 

Take a skinned and cleansed rabbit, cut it into neat pieces, season 
with pepper and salt, and fry with six peeled and chopped onions and 
two ounces of butter until a good golden colour, add one large table- 
spoonful of mango chutney, a bunch of herbs (thyme, parsley, and bay- 
leaf), half a grated cocoanut, the juice of two large lemons, the milk 
from the cocoanut, two tablespoonfuls of flour, one ounce of Marshall's 
Curry Powder, a dessertspoonful of curry paste, three red chilli 
peppers pounded, cover with good stock, and cook for one and a half 
hours till quite tender ; then remove the meat and reduce the sauce 
to a very thick consistency and tammy it, make it quite hot in the bain- 
marie, and, when ready to serve, sprinkle a little dry curry powder over 
each piece of meat. Serve with rice as a border (vol. i.), and some on a 
dish on a napkin or paper, either hot or cold, as an entree for dinner 
or luncheon. 



OF EXTRA RECIPES BREAKFAST DISHES, ETC. 279 

Fritot of Pigs' Feet a la Victor 
Fritot de Pieds de Pore a la Victor 

Cook 'two or three pigs' feet as for ' Fritot a la Beige ' (page 150), 
allowing them to cook three and a half to four hours ; then take up the 
feet, allow them to cool a little, remove all the bones, lay the feet open 
flat, sprinkle over them some coralline pepper, finely-chopped eschalot 
and cooked button mushrooms, chopped thyme and bayleaf and parsley ; 
put the feet between two dishes, place a weight on the top and put 
aside till cold. Then cut the feet into lengths of about two inches and 
one inch wide, mask each strip with the prepared puree, wrap each in a 
piece of cleansed dry pork caul, dust over with flour, dip into whole 
beaten-up raw egg, then into freshly-made white breadcrumbs ; press 
the crumbs well to the egg with a palette knife, put altogether into a 
frying-basket, and fry them in clean boiling fat till crisp and brown. Dish 
up in a pile on a dish-paper on crisply fried parsley, and serve very hot 
for a breakfast or luncheon dish. 

Puree for Pigs' Feet a la Victor. Take two ounces of lean cooked 
ox-tongue or ham, two tablespoonfuls of Bechamel sauce (vol. i.), one 
ounce of butter and a little liquid carmine, pound altogether till smooth ; 
then rub it through a fine wire sieve and put it into a basin with a tea- 
spoonful of finely-chopped raw parsley, two hard-boiled yolks of eggs 
that have been rubbed through a sieve, one and a half ounces of fresh 
white breadcrumbs, a good pinch of coralline pepper, salt, two raw 
yolks of eggs, six large bearded sauce oysters finely chopped ; mix in 
enough oyster liquor to make it a nice smooth paste, and use. 



Fritot of Pigs' Feet a la Clementine 
Fritot de Pieds de Pore a la Clementine 

Prepare three or four pigs' feet as for 'Fritot a la Beige.' When 
cold cut up into lengths of about two inches by one inch wide, season 
with warm butter, coralline pepper, and salt ; mask over with French 
mustard, a little chopped parsley, chopped eschalot, and fresh mushroom ; 
wrap each in a thinly-cut square piece of raw fat bacon, dip them into 
frying batter, and fry in clean boiling fat till a nice golden colour. 
Arrange in a pile on a dish-paper on a hot dish with fried parsley, and 
serve for breakfast, luncheon, or dinner. 



280 MRS. A B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

Fritot of Herring Roes 

Fritot de Laitance de Harengs 

Take some of the prepared herring roes, season them with warm 
butter, coralline pepper, strained lemon juice, and finely-chopped fresh 
cooked mushrooms ; sprinkle over a little coral and grated Gruyere 
cheese, roll each up in a very thin slice of crisply cooked bacon while 
hot, dip each into frying batter (vol. i.), and by means of an iron spoon 
drop each into clean boiling mutton fat or lard and fry till a good 
golden colour, turning them frequently while cooking. Then take up, 
sprinkle over some with a little chopped raw green parsley, others with 
coral or coralline pepper, and the rest with hard-boiled yolk of egg 
that has been rubbed through a wire sieve. Dish up in a pile on a 
paper or napkin on a hot dish, and serve for a savoury or breakfast dish, 
or in the second course. 

Fritot of Oysters -with Fine Herbs 

Fritot d' II nitres <mx Fines Herhe-< 

Remove the beards from some nice fresh oysters, and season with 
finely-chopped eschalot, coralline pepper, and a little chopped raw green 
parsley. Take some very thinly-cut pieces of raw bacon, season each 
slice with a little finely-chopped raw fresh mushroom (that has been 
washed and pressed), and put them on a clean baking-tin in front of a 
brisk fire or in the oven till they are partly cooked. Then take them up 
and place on each one of the prepared oysters a piece of anchovy butter 
about the size of half a walnut, roll up quickly in a piece of cleansed 
and dried pork caul, form into cylinder shapes, dip each into frying 
batter, and fry them in clean boiling fat till a nice golden colour and 
quite crisp. Dish them up on a paper on a hot dish, and serve at once 
while quite hot for breakfast or luncheon, or as a savoury. 

Fritot of Crayfish a la Richelieu 
Fritot d'Ecrevisses a lev Richelieu 

Take some fresh or bottled crayfish, drain from the liquor, dip 
each into warm butter, season with a little coralline pepper, and dip 
them into thick Tomato sauce (vol. i.), then into grated Parmesan cheese 
and into frying batter (vol. i.), and fry them in clean boiling fat a nice 
golden colour, keeping them well turned about while cooking. Take 
some little hot china or paper cases (allowing one to each person), put 



OF EXTRA RECIPES BREAKFAST DISHES, ETC. 281 

five or six of the crayfish into each, sprinkle over the top a little raw 
green parsley or a pinch of fried ditto (vol. i.) ; arrange the cases on a 
hot dish on a paper or napkin, and serve either in the fish course, as 
an entree, or second course or breakfast dish. 



Fritot of Crayfish, a la Cleveland 
Fritot (UEcrerixsex d la Cleveland 

Take some of the prepared or freshly-cooked crayfish bodies, drain, 
and season them with salad oil, lemon juice, and anchovy essence ; also 
take some slices of cooked fresh mushrooms and some little rounds of 
cooked fat bacon, that are seasoned in the same manner as the fish, and 
arrange alternately with the crayfish on little thin straws or wooden 
skewers, using about four crayfish for each skewer ; sprinkle over the 
skewers a little raw green parsley and eschalot chopped fine, wrap 
each in a tiny square of cleansed pork caul that is not very fat and per- 
fectly dry, dip each into frying batter (vol i.), and by means of a fork 
drop each separately into clean boiling fat and fry over a quick fire till 
a nice golden colour, carefully turning them about while cooking that 
they may become the same colour all over. Then take them up on a 
pastry -rack to drain, dish on a paper on a hot dish, and serve for an 
entree for dinner, or in the second course as a hot dish, or for breakfast 
or luncheon. 

Mushrooms and Bacon for Fritot of Crayfish a la Cleve- 
land. Wash, peel, and dry some good mushrooms, and stamp them 
out with a plain round cutter about the size of a shilling ; cook them 
in a stewpan with a pat of butter, season them with pepper and a very 
little salt ; take up when done, and use. Fry some thin slices of raw 
bacon till curly, then leave them till cool on a rack, and stamp them 
out with a plain round cutter the size of a shilling, and use. 

Fritot a la St. Germain 

Fritot a la Saint-Germain 

Chop two ounces of lax, and mix with it a teaspoonful of finely- 
chopped parsley, four boned Christiania anchovies that have been passed 
through the sieve, two ounces of freshly-made breadcrumbs, three hard- 
boiled yolks of eggs that have been rubbed through a wire sieve, a dust 
of coralline pepper, and a quarter-pound of fresh warm butter, and work 
into a smooth paste. Then take some fresh bearded raw oysters, sea- 
soned with lemon juice and coralline pepper, and roll each inside a 



282 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

portion of the mixture, making it about the size of a walnut ; roll each 
portion separately in a little square piece of thin pork caul, which has 
been kept in coid water for a day or two, then drained and dried in a 
clean cloth ; roll very lightly in fine flour, then dip in frying batter 
(vol. i.) and fry for eight to ten minutes, when they should be a pretty 
golden colour ; dish up on a dish-paper, garnish with a little finely- 
chopped parsley and lobster coral, and serve hot for a savoury or break- 
fast or luncheon dish. The above quantities are sufficient for twelve - 
people. The beards and liquor from the oysters can be used for fish 
stock. 

Fritot a la Royale 
Fritot a la Royale 

Take a quarter-pound of any kind of cold cooked fish, free it from 
skin and bone, and pound it in the mortar with the fillets from twelve 
Christiania anchovies, one tablespoonful of Tomato sauce (vol. i.), two 
hard-boiled yolks of eggs, one ounce of grated Parmesan cheese, one 
ounce of warm butter, one large tablespoonful of thick Bechamel sauce 
(vol. i.), a good pinch of Marshall's Coralliue Pepper; rub altogether 
through a wire sieve, mix with a good teaspoonful of finely-chopped raw 
parsley and one finely-chopped eschalot; then divide into portions 
about a teaspoonful in each, roll up with a little flour in a thin, dry 
piece of pork caul, dip each separately into frying batter (vol. i.), and 
fry them in clean boiling fat till a nice golden colour and quite crisp. 
Dish up in a pile on a hot dish on a paper or napkin, garnish with fried 
crisp parsley (vol. i.). Serve while quite hot for a breakfast or savoury 
dish. 

Fritot a la Parisienne 

Fritot d la Parisienne 

Take some boned Christiania anchovies, roll each one up in a square of 
lax (prepared in tins), dip into Vinaigrette sauce (vol. i.), and then into 
frying batter (vol. i.), drop into clean boiling fat and fry till a nice 
golden colour ; then take up on a drainer or rack and dish up on a paper 
in a pile on a hot dish ; garnish with crisply-fried green parsley, and 
serve for breakfast or savoury while quite hot. 

Fritot a la Milton 
Fritot d la Milton 

Take some very thin slices of raw, small, back bacon, season them 
with chopped parsley, fresh mushroom, and eschalot; place them on a 



OF EXTRA RECIPES-BREAKFAST DISHES, ETC. 283 

clean baking-tin and cook them in a moderate oven for six to seven 
minutes, taking care that the bacon does not brown ; then sprinkle over 
it some cold cooked shredded chicken (or any kind of game or poultry) ; 
then by means of a forcing bag with a plain pipe force a little of the 
fish puree (see below) into the centre of each, roll up the slices in 
cylinder form, dip them into frying batter (vol. i.), and fry them in 
clean boiling fat till a nice golden brown colour, turning them about 
while cooking. When ready to serve dish up in a pile on a paper or 
napkin, garnish with crisply-fried parsley (vol. i.), and serve very hot 
for breakfast, second course, or luncheon. 

Puree of Fish for Fritot a la Milton. Take six Kriiger's 
Appetit Sild, two ounces of hard-boiled yolk of egg, six Christiania 
anchovies, two ounces of dried haddock, six large oysters and their 
liquor, a good dust of coralline pepper ; pound and rub through a sieve, 
mix with two raw whites of egg that have been whipped stiff with a 
pinch of salt, and use. 

Fritot a la Louis 
Fritot d la LouU 

Take a set of blanched calf's brains, rub them through a wire sieve, 
mix with six Christiania anchovies that are boned and also rubbed through 
a sieve, a teaspoonful of finely-chopped raw green parsley, one eschalot 
chopped, a dust of Marshall's Coralline Pepper, two ounces of grated 
Parmesan cheese, one ounce of warm butter, a half-ounce of freshly- 
made white breadcrumbs, two raw yolks of egg ; stir up together, then 
roll up into balls about the size of a walnut, using a little fine flour for 
the purpose, dip into frying batter (vol. i.) and fry in clean boiling 
fat till a nice golden colour and quite crisp ; then dish up in a pile on 
a dish-paper, and garnish with crisply-fried parsley (vol. i.). Use for 
dinner or luncheon. 

Fritot a la Russe 
Fritot a la Russe 

Take a dried haddock, mackerel, or some dried salmon, remove the 
meat from it, and rub it through a coarse wire sieve ; for each half- 
pound of the fish take two ounces of good butter and warm it, but do 
not let the butter boil ; mix it with the fish in a basin, add the puree of 
four boned Christiania anchovies that have also been rubbed through a 
sieve, a teaspoonful of finely-chopped parsley and one finely-chopped 
eschalot, and two hard-boiled yolks of eggs that have been rubbed 
through a wire sieve ; mix these ingredients together into a paste, and 



284 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

then roll it up in small cylinder shapes about one and a half inches 
long and one in diameter. Dip each piece separately into frying 
batter (vol. i.) and drop into clean boiling fat, and fry till a pretty 
golden colour, which will take about three to four minutes ; sprinkle the 
pieces alternately with lobster coral that has been rubbed through a 
sieve, or coralline pepper, and finely-chopped parsley. Dish up on a 
dish-paper, en couronne, and serve for breakfast or second-course dish. 
These should be always served up to table as soon as possible after the 
frying, so that the batter in which they are cooked can be eaten while it 
is quite crisp. 

Fritot a la Mongole 
Fritot d la Mongole 

Take a nice dried haddock, free it from skin and bone, and cut it 
into finger lengths about an inch thick ; mask them over with the 
prepared puree, wrap up in a piece of cleansed dry caul, and then put 
them into a buttered saute pan and cook them in a quick oven for five 
to eight minutes ; set aside till cool. Take up the fish with a fork and 
drop each separately into frying batter, and fry them in clean boiling fat 
till a nice golden colour and quite crisp, turning them constantly with a 
slice while cooking ; drain them on a pastry-rack, dish them up in a 
pile on a dish-paper, garnish the dish with quarters of raw lemon, and 
serve at once very hot for a savoury or breakfast dish. 

Puree for Fritot A la Mongole. Rub six boned Christiania 
anchovies through a sieve, mix with them six chopped-up bearded 
oysters, one ounce of grated Parmesan cheese, two tablespoonfuls of 
thick warm Bechamel sauce (vol. i.), one ounce of warm butter, a good 
pinch of coralline pepper, a teaspoonful of chopped raw parsley, and 
one ounce of fresh white breadcrumbs and one raw yolk of egg ; stir 
up well altogether, and use. 

Omelet with Crayfish, a rArmenienne 

Omelette aux Ecrevisses d VArmenienne 

Prepare the omelet as for ' Omelet a la Franpaise ' (vol. i.), mixing 
with it the puree from six Christiania anchovies, a dust of Marshall's 
Coralline Pepper, a teaspoonful of essence of anchovies, a few drops of 
liquid carmine, and a quarter-pint of crayfish bodies that are chopped 
up fine. Then fry in the same way as usual in a steel omelet pan and 
turn out on a hot dish, and serve sauce as below round it ; use while quite 
hot for breakfast, luncheon, or second course. 

Sauce a l'Armenienne. Take two raw ripe tomatoes peeled and 



OF EXTRA RECIPES BREAKFAST DISHES, ETC. 285 

chopped fine, one small eschalot chopped fine, a dust of coralline 
pepper, a pinch of salt, a tablespoonful of tarragon vinegar, one and a 
half gills of good light stock, one ounce of butter mixed with a quarter- 
ounce of arrowroot ; four Christiania anchovies boned and chopped fine ; 
boil together till in a pulp, then rub through a tammy or fine hair sieve, 
and use when re-wai*med. 

Omelet -with. Asparagus 
Omelette aux Asperges 

Mix well together in a basin four whole eggs, two good tablespoon- 
fuls of new milk, one ounce of butter, a little salt and white pepper, and 
a tiny dust of nutmeg. Melt one and a half ounces of butter in an 
omelet pan, then pour in the mixture and fry for two or three minutes, 
stirring the mixture so that all of it may be equally cooked ; then to- 
wards the end of the frying form it into a half-moon shape, and fill it 
in with cooked Asparagus peas (see recipe) that are mixed with some 
good creamy Veloute sauce (vol. i.), enough to moisten it well. Turn 
it out on to a hot dish, and pour some Veloute sauce round, and at each 
corner of the dish put some of the asparagus without sauce, and serve 
quite hot as a breakfast, luncheon, or second-course dish. 

Omelet a la Baltique 

Omelette d la Baltique 

Take five yolks of eggs, two whites of eggs, one ounce of butter, two 
tablespoonfuls of milk, a tiny pinch of salt and white pepper (or a little 
mignonette pepper would be better if you have it), one saltspoonful of 
essence of anchovy ; fry in two ounces of butter, and when the omelet is 
ready to roll up in the pan place in it three or four of the prepared 
fillets of herring (Filets de Hareng Marines au Vin Blanc), which are 
just warmed, roll up the omelet and dish up. Have four whites of eggs 
whipped stiff with a pinch of salt and pepper, and mask the omelet with 
this (using a bag and large rose pipe) ; then put it in the oven to get a 
pale golden colour, standing the dish containing the omelet in a tin 
with hot water underneath. When ready to serve sprinkle with coral 
and chopped parsley ; serve very hot. 

Omelet with Oysters a la Cannes 
Omelette aux Huitres d la Cannes 

Take four or five whole raw eggs, one and a half ounces of butter, 
three tablespoonfuls of strained oyster liquor, a dust of salt and cayenne 



286 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

pepper, a teaspoonful of finely-chopped raw green parsley and chopped 
eschalot; mix up altogether, then pour the mixture into an omelet pan in 
which one and a half ounces of butter have been melted ; stir about till 
the contents begin to thicken, then put in the centre a ragout of oysters 
and turn into a half-moon shape. Turn out on a hot dish, and serve 
quite hot for breakfast, luncheon, or second course. 

Ragout for Omelet with Oysters A la Cannes. Put one and a 
half dozen raw bearded oysters into a stewpan with one ounce of butter, 
a pinch of cayenne, the juice of a lemon, six or eight cooked button 
mushrooms, sliced, one tablespoonful of cream, two raw yolks of eggs 
that have been well mixed ; warm and stir in a bain-marie till thick ; 
mix in a little raw chopped parsley, and use. 

Omelet with. Oysters a la Catalan 
Omelette awe Huitres a la Catalan 

Prepare an omelet as for ' Omelet a la Francaise ' (vol. i.), using the 
strained liquor from the oysters in place of the milk ; fry in a steel 
omelet pan, and when about to turn over put inside one and a half 
dozen bearded oysters that have been mixed with part of the sauce as 
below. Turn out on a hot dish, and serve the remainder of the sauce 
round for breakfast, luncheon, or dinner while quite hot. 

Sauce for Omelet with Oysters a la Catalan. Take a quarter- 
pint of oyster liquor and their beards, a wineglassful of white wine, one 
finely-chopped eschalot, a dust of coralline pepper; boil for about five 
minutes, then mix on to half an ounce of butter and one ounce of fine 
flour that have been fried without browning ; stir on the fire till boiling, 
and add the juice of one lemon, a teaspoonful of warm glaze, a gill of 
cream ; reboil, then tammy, just make hot, and then add the oysters, 
and use. 

Omelet with French Beans 

Omelette attx Haricots Verts 

Mix well together in a basin six whole eggs, three large tablespoonfuls 
of new milk, one and a half ounces of lean cooked ham or tongue, finely 
chopped, a dust of cayenne pepper, a little salt, and one ounce of fresh 
butter. Melt one and a half ounces of good butter in an omelet pan, pour 
in the prepared mixture and fry it for three minutes, stirring it that the 
mixture may be equally cooked. Cut up in small diamond shapes one 
pound of fresh French beans, boil them in the usual way, and when 
tender strain them from the water and put them into a stewpan with 



OF EXTRA RECIPES BREAKFAST DISHES, ETC. 287 

one ounce of warm butter, two ounces of lean cooked ham or tongue 
cut up in small diamond shapes, two tablespoonfuls of thick Tomato 
sauce (vol. i.) ; make these quite hot, put them into the omelet, and form 
it into a half-moon shape ; then turn it out on to a hot dish, and serve for 
a luncheon or second-course dish. The above quantities would make an 
omelet sufficiently large for six or seven persons. 



Omelet with. Mushrooms and Bacon 

Omelette wax Champignons et Lard 

Prepare an ' Omelet a la Francaise ' (vol i.), and cook in a steel omelet 
pan. When partly done spread a layer of the bacon ragout as below 
over the inside, and then turn over and place on a hot dish, and surround 
with brown Mushroom sauce (see recipe). Serve for breakfast, luncheon, 
or dinner while quite hot. 

Bacon Ragout for Omelet. Take a quarter-pound of fat and 
lean raw bacon, cut it up into little dice shapes, and saute over a 
quick fire till cooked ; then drain from the fat. Also take six good- 
sized, cleansed, fresh mushrooms, cut in a similar way, put into a stew- 
pan with one ounce of butter, a dust of Marshall's Coralline Pepper, a 
dust of salt, one very finely chopped eschalot ; cook on the side of the 
stove for about ten minutes, then add the bacon, that has been sprinkled 
over with a little sifted fine flour, bring to the boil, and add a little finely- 
chopped raw green parsley, and use. 



Omelet with Marrow 
Omelette <1 In Moelle 

Take the ingredients and prepare the ' Omelet with Fine Herbs ' 
(vol. i.) and cook in a steel omelet pan, and when about to turn into 
shape place some marrow, as below, inside with a few sliced truffles or 
button mushrooms ; turn on to a hot dish, and serve with a good 
Eepagnoi sauce (vol. i.) round the dish, and place at each corner of 
the dish some bunches of small crisply-fried croutons of bread that are 
cooked a very pale golden colour. Serve for luncheon or second course. 

Marrow for Omelet. Take a nice fresh beef marrow bone, split it, 
remove the marrow and blanch it (see recipe), cut it up into nice slices 
about a quarter of an inch thick, put a quarter-pint of Espagnol sauce 
into a stewpan, and when boiling drop in the marrow and the truffle, 
and then use. 



288 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

Omelet with. Tomato Butter 
Omelette <m Beurre de Tomates 

Break into a basin four whole eggs, add three tablespoonfuls of new 
milk, one ounce of butter, half a saltspoonful of salt, a pinch of white 
pepper, a dust of castor sugar and a tiny dust of coralline pepper, half a 
small finely-chopped eschalot that has been pressed in a cloth, a tea- 
spoonful of finely-chopped parsley, similarly pressed, and a small pinch 
of thyme and bayleaf ; mix all these together with a fork. Then put one 
and a half ounces of butter into an omelet pan, and when it is quite hot 
pour in the mixture, lightly move it about with a wooden spoon, and 
when the mixture thickens roll it over with a palette knife into the 
shape of a half-moon, and turn it on to a warm dish. Serve with 
Tomato butter (vol. i.) round the base. 

Omelet with Parmesan 
Omelette au Parmesan 

Take four whole raw eggs in a basin, two tablespoonfuls of new milk, 
one ounce of butter, a dust of Marshall's Coralline Pepper, a little salt, 
and one and a half ounces of grated Parmesan cheese ; mix together, 
and then fry in the usual way in a steel omelet pan, and pour round it 
some Cheese Cream sauce (see recipe), and brown on the top with a 
red-hot salamander. This is excellent for luncheon or for a second- 
course dish, and must be served while quite hot. 



Omelet a la Provence 

Omelette d la Provence 

Prepare the mixture as for ' Omelet a la Francaise ' (vol. i.), and 
when partly cooked spread a puree as below over the inside, and 
sprinkle with sliced truffle or button mushrooms ; turn over into a half- 
moon shape, and serve on a hot dish with the remaining puree at the 
ends. Serve for luncheon or second course while quite hot. 

Puree for inside Omelet A la Provence. Put into a stewpan 
one ounce of butter, two large onions cut up into tiny dice shapes, a 
pinch of Marshall's Coralline Pepper, a little salt ; fry together till a nice 
golden colour, then add the pulp of three large raw ripe or tinned 
tomatoes, a quarter-pint of good-flavoured light stock ; cook till tender, 
then add a quarter-ounce of arrowroot that has been mixed till smooth 



OF EXTRA. RECIPES BREAKFAST DISHES, ETC. 289 

with the juice of one lemon, and a tablespoonful of mushroom liquor ; 
stir till reboiling, then colour, if needed, with a few drops of liquid 
carmine : then tammv, and use when rewarmed. 



Curried Eggs in Surprise a la Poonah 
CEufs Surprise en Ka/ri & la Poonalt 

Boil eight fresh eggs for ten minutes, then cut off' a slice at the 
bottoms, take out the yolks, and pound them with a pinch of Marshall's 
Coralline Pepper, one saltspoonful of essence of anchovy, and two ounces 
of picked shrimps ; pass through a sieve, add a gill of whipped cream, 
and, when ready to serve, warm the whites of the eggs in boiling water, 
drain them, and make the puree hot, and fill the whites of the eggs with 
it by means of a forcing bag with a plain pipe ; dish up in a border of 
rice (vol. i.), with Curry sauce round the dish and some of the rice in 
the centre ; sprinkle the eggs with a little coral and chopped parsley, and 
use for a luncheon or for an entree for a dinner. 

Curry Sauce for Eggs in Surprise a la Poonah. Take two 
ounces of butter, two peeled and sliced onions, one small sliced apple, 
two tomatoes, two large fresh mushrooms, a bunch of herbs (thyme, 
parsley, bayleaf ), and fry till a good brown colour ; then add two table- 
spoonfuls of Marshall's Creme de Biz, one tablespoonful of Marshall's 
Curry Powder, a dessertspoonful of chutney, the juice of one large lemon, 
a saltspoonful of salt, one quart of milk or light stock ; colour with a 
little carmine to make it a pale salmon colour, and simmer steadily for 
about thirty to forty minutes till tender, then tammy it, and add a gill 
of cream, re warm, and use. 

Eggs on the Plate with. Cheese 
CEufs stir le Ph't au Fromage 

Put into a stewpan four ounces of finely-sliced good Cheddar or 
Gruyere cheese, mix with it one and a half gills of cream, one 
tablespoonful of Bechamel sauce (vol. i.) and a dust of coralline 
pepper ; stir over the fire until the mixture dissolves and looks quite 
smooth like cream, then pour it on a buttered entree dish and pour 
over it a very little warm single cream. Break some raw fresh eggs 
(allowing one to each person) on the cream, sprinkle over them a little 
salt and pepper and grated Parmesan cheese, place the dish quickly in 
a hot oven in a tin containing boiling water, and cook till the yolks of 
the eggs have become set, which will take from three to four minutes if 

u 



290 MBS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LABGEB COOKEB* BOOK 

the oven is quick. When cooked take up the dish, sprinkle over it 
a little hard-boiled yolk of egg that has been rubbed through a wire 
sieve and made hot over boiling water between two plates. This is an 
excellent dish for second course in the place of game, or for a luncheon 
dish. 

Eggs a la Chambord 

CEitfs d la Chambord 

Break some new-laid eggs into a lightly-buttered saute pan, 
allowing one to each person, and place the pan in a moderate oven for 
three to four minutes, when the yolks should be set but not hard ; then 
take a plain round cutter, about three inches to three and a half inches 
in diameter, and with it stamp out the eggs ; take them up with a 
palette knife and arrange them on a hot dish ; place a thin round slice 
of truffle on every alternate yolk and pour round the outside of the 
white of the eggs a puree of fresh tomatoes (vol. i.). Serve for a 
breakfast, luncheon, or second-course dish while quite hot. 

Eggs with Crayfish on Croutons 
(Eufs aux Ecrevisses sur Crotites 

Break into a stewpan three or four raw eggs, add a pinch of coralline 
pepper, a little salt, a good pinch of finely-chopped raw green parsley, 
a quarter of a pint of cream, one ounce of good butter, one eschalot, a 
few drops of carmine, six Christiania anchovies that have been rubbed 
through a sieve, also about two dozen of the crayfish bodies (in bottle) 
that are cut up into slices ; stir on the stove for three or four minutes 
over the fire with a wooden spoon until the mixture thickens, then 
arrange on some fried croutons that are stamped out into rounds, sprinkle 
over the top a little coralline pepper and shredded French gherkin, and 
serve for luncheon, breakfast, or second course while quite hot. 

Eggs a la Diable 
(Eufs a la Diable 

Poach some eggs as in recipe (vol. i.), trim them neatly and dish 
them up on a bed of plainly boiled rice (vol. i.) that is sprinkled with 
a little finely-chopped raw green parsley. Pour round the dish the 
curry sauce prepared as below, and serve for a luncheon or second- 
course dish, always serving it very hot. 

Curry Sauce for Eggs A la Diable. Put three or four peeled and 
sliced onions into a saute pan with one and a half ounces of butter or 



OF EXTRA RECIPES BREAKFAST DISHES, ETC. 291 

clean dripping, and a little finely-chopped thyme, parsley, and bayleaf ; 
fry them together till a nice golden colour, then mix with two table- 
spoonfuls of thick Bechamel sauce (vol. i.), a dessertspoonful of Marshall's 
Curry Powder, the same of chutney, a pinch of salt, half a pint of good- 
flavoured light stock, two sliced tomatoes, and a quarter of a pint of 
cream ; stir these together till boiling, then simmer on the side of the 
stove for about half an hour, add a tablespoonful of lemon juice, tammy, 
rewarm, and use. 

Eggs a la Dunbar 
Q$uf$ d la Dunbar 

Take some freshly poached eggs (vol. i.), trim off all untidy edges 
and put them into warm butter. Take sufficient of the prepared 
croutons to allow one to each person. Place an egg on each, mask 
them over with cheese puree (see recipe), brown them with the sala- 
mander, dish them on a hot dish, pour Dunbar sauce round the dish, 
and serve very hot for breakfast, luncheon, or second course. 

Croutons for Eggs. Cut some slices of stale bread about an inch 
thick and stamp out in rounds about two inches in diameter, cut an 
inner circle with a cutter a size smaller than the one previously used, 
cutting it about half the depth of the bread ; fry them in clean boiling 
fat till a nice golden colour and quite crisp, then remove the centre and 
fill up the space with the prepared puree, using a forcing bag and pipe 
for the purpose. 

Puree for Croutons. Take six ounces of any kind of cold cooked 
game or poultry, one tablespoonful of thick Bechamel sauce (vol. i.), a 
dust of Marshall's Coralline Pepper, a little salt, two hard-boiled yolks 
of eggs, one ounce of butter, half an ounce of grated Parmesan cheese, 
four boned Christiania anchovies, one tablespoonful of thick cream, 
half a teaspoonful of Marshall's Curry Powder, and a dessertspoonful of 
lemon juice ; pound altogether, rub through a hair sieve, rewarm in 
the bain-marie, and use. 

Dunbar Sauce. Take rather better than half a pint of light stock, 
two chopped eschalots, three sliced tomatoes, the juice of one lemon, a 
dust of coralline pepper, a little salt, a teaspoonful of French mustard, 
the same of mixed English mustard, a teaspoonful of Liebig Company's 
Extract of Meat, one chopped fresh mushroom, a few drops of carmine ; 
boil together for about fifteen minutes, then stir into it half an ounce of 
Marshall's Creme de Riz that is mixed with a little cold water, and an 
ounce of butter ; reboil, tammy, rewarm in the bain-marie, and use. 

IT 2 



292 M1!S. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

Eggs a la Lantry 
(Evfs d J" Lcmtry 

Take some fresh eggs, break them into a slightly-buttered saute 
pan, being careful not. to break the yolks, sprinkle over them a little 
coralline pepper and lean cooked ham. a little raw chopped green 
parsley and eschalot ; place a thin stain ped-out round of raw fat bacon 
on each, about one and a half inches in diameter, put a well-buttered 
paper over the top. and place the saute pan in a tin containing boiling 
water and stand in a moderate oven till the yolks are set, but not firm ; 
then take up the pan. and with a plain round cutter stamp the eggs out, 
leaving a border of the white about an inch round the edge of the 
yolks ; dish up on a puree of fresh mushrooms (vol. i.) straight down 
the dish, and pour round the dish some Tomato butter (vol. i.) ; use for 
breakfast, luncheon, or second course while quite hot. 

Eggs a la Heine 
(Eufs <i J" Seine 

Cut some hard-boiled eggs into halves lengthwise, and cut the bottoms 
level to allow them to stand up. Take some egg puree (see recipe), put 
it into a forcing bag with a large rose pipe, mask the eggs with it, place on 
top of each two of the crayfish bodies (prepared in bottles) that have been 
sprinkled over with a little oil, tarragon vinegar, and a little finely- 
chopped raw green parsley. Have some hard-boiled whites and yolks of 
eggs rubbed separately through a sieve, arrange these in four rows on the 
dish on which the eggs are to be served, place the halves of the eggs 
down the centre of the dish ; arrange here and there, as a border, some 
Kriiger's Appetit Sild rolled up, and some of the farced olives (prepared 
in bottles), and serve for a breakfast, luncheon, or savoury dish. 

Eggs and Bacon a la Mariette 
CEitfs au Lard a la Mariette 

Take some very fine slices of bacon, season them with a slight dust 
of raw mustard, place them in a fry-pan on the stove and cook steadily 
till cisp ; then take up and arrange the slices on a hot dish in a flat form, 
allowing one slice to each person. Take for each person one perfectly 
fresh egg and break them over the bacon, season with a slight dust of 
Marshall's Coralline Pepper ; then- stand the dish in a baking-tin contain- 
ing boiling water, sprinkle with grated Parmesan, and place in a quick 



OF EXTRA RECIPES BREAKFAST DISHES, ETC. 293 

oven until the whites of the eggs are set ; then remove from the oven, 
brown over with the salamander, and sprinkle with a little raw green 
chopped parsley. Rub two or three fresh ripe tomatoes through a hair 
sieve, and put the pulp in a stewpan with the strained juice of half a 
lemon, a few drops of carmine, a pinch of salt, and a tablespoonful of 
Brown sauce (vol. i.) ; boil and serve round the eggs for a breakfast or 
second-course dish. 

Eggs a la Wellington 
(Eufe d I" Wellington 

Carefully break some fresh eggs into a well-buttered saute pan, season 
them with a little very finely chopped eschalot, parsley, coralline 
pepper, and salt ; place the pan in a moderate oven until the yolks set, 
but do not allow them to become hard ; when cooked stam]) out the eggs 
with a plain round cutter, and place each on a crouton of fried bread ; 
then dish them up on cooked halves of tomatoes, and serve with \Yelling- 
ton sauce round the dish. Use for a hot breakfast, luncheon, or second- 
course dish. 

Blanquette of Eggs a la Napier 
Blanquetle cPCEufi <l la Napier 

Take some nice hot mashed potato, put it into a forcing bag with a 
large rose pipe and force it out on a hot dish in the form of a border ; 
arrange here and there on the border some slices of ox-tongue that have 
been stamped out into rounds and warmed between two plates with a 
little mushroom liquor over boiling water, and some slices of cooked 
tomato (see recipe), placing the two together. Arrange some poached 
eggs in the centre of the dish on a little of the potato puree, and then 
mask them over with sauce as below ; sprinkle a little finely-chopped 
French gherkin over, and serve for an entree for luncheon or for a second- 
course dish, and use while quite hot. 

Sauce for Blanquette of Eggs a la Napier. Take three-quarters 
of a pint of good Supreme sauce (vol. i.) and mix it on to three raw 
yolks of eggs that have been mixed with the juice of one lemon ; stir 
over the fire till it thickens, then tammy, and use. 

Plovers' Eggs a la Navarre 
(Eufs de Pluviers d la Navarre 

Take some egg-shaped moulds and line them thinly with aspic jelly, 
garnish them with truffle cut out in diamond shapes, little leaves of 



294 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

picked raw chervil and lobster coral, the latter being forced through a 
bag with a plain pipe ; set the garnish with a little liquid aspic jelly, 
and then place in each a cooked and shelled plover's egg ; close up the 
mould and fill it with aspic jelly, then put them into a cool place or on 
ice till set. Dip the moulds into hot water, and turn out the eggs, then 
dish each in a little iced timbal of aspic jelly, allowing one to each 
person ; serve on a dish-paper and garnish with little leaves of picked 
chervil. This dish can be served for luncheon or for a ball supper, as 
well as for second course. 

Iced Ti.misals of Aspic. Fill the moulds with aspic jelly, and 
place them in the charged ice cave for about one hour ; then dip into hot 
water, turn out, and use. 

Croutes a la Jessamine 
Croutes d hi Jessamine 

Take some slices of stale bread about a quarter-inch thick and cut 
them into rounds about one and a half inches in diameter by means of a 
plain round cutter, fry the rounds in clean boiling fat till a nice golden 
colour ; then place them on a hot baking-tin, sprinkle over each a little 
warm glaze and some grated Parmesan cheese, place on each a very thin 
slice of fat raw bacon, and put them into a moderate oven for about ten 
minutes. Then take them up, arrange them on a hot flat dish, place a 
slice of hot hard-boiled egg on each crouton, pour over them some puive 
of fish as below, and serve quite hot for breakfast or savoury. 

Puree of Fish for Croutes a la Jessamine. Pound six Christi- 
ania anchovies with four sauce oysters and their liquor, a dust of Mar- 
shall's Coralline Pepper, three raw yolks of eggs, the strained juice of a 
lemon, and one and a half gills of cream ; stir in the bain-marie till the 
mixture thickens, then add a good pinch of finely-chopped lean ham, raw 
parsley, and a tablespoonful of finely-chopped lax, and use. 

Oysters a la Dumas 
Huttres d la Dumas 

Take some nice fresh raw bearded oysters and season them with a 
little cayenne pepper and lemon juice. Peel, wash, and remove the 
stalks from some open fresh mushrooms (which, if large, should be cut 
in pieces), and then dry them in a clean cloth ; season them with pepper, 
salt, and chopped parsley, and put them into a buttered saute pan with 
the liquor from the oysters ; place the cover on the pan, and cook them 
in a moderate oven for about twelve minutes ; fry till crisp some thin 



Or EXTRA RECIPES BREAKFAST DISHES, ETC. 295 

slices of bacon in a little lard or bacon fat. Arrange the oysters, mush- 
room, and bacon alternately on skewers, press the three well together, 
and then place them in a small piece of pork caul ; sprinkle them over 
with fine flour, dip them into whole beaten-up egg, and fry in clean 




boiling fat till a pretty golden colour. Remove each skewer and dish 
up on a dish-paper or napkin, as in engraving, on a bed of crisply-fried 
parsley; sprinkle fchem with a little coral, and have the sauce, as below, 
handed in a sauceboat. This dish can be served for breakfast, luncheon, 
or for second course, and should always be served very hot. 

Sauce for Oysters a la Dumas. Take the liquor from the mush- 
rooms and the liquor remaining from the oysters, and mix them to- 
gether with a tablespoonful of Brown sauce (vol. i.), a dust of coralline 
pepper, and the strained juice of a lemon, a few drops of carmine ; boil 
up, tammy, and serve in a hot sauceboat. 

Oysters with. Puree of Mushrooms 
Huitres au Puree de Champignons 

Remove the beards from some nice fresh oysters and season with a 
little warm butter, a little finely-chopped parsley, and the strained juice 
of a lemon ; roll each up in a thinly cut slice of raw bacon, close up the 
ends of the bacon and wrap each in a little square piece of cleansed and 
dried pork caul ; dip them in fine flour, then into whole beaten-up egg, 
and fry them in clean boiling fat till a nice golden colour ; take them up, 
and arrange them straight down the dish on a puree of fresh mushrooms 
(vol. i.) that has been forced on to the dish with a forcing bag and a 
plain pipe. Serve at once while quite hot for breakfast, luncheon, or 
second course dish. 

Oysters a TAmericaine 
Huitres a VAmericaine 

Take some large oysters, season them with strained lemon juice, 
cayenne pepper, and warm butter, and leave till the butter is cold ; then 
dip them separately into fine flour and then into whole beaten-up raw 



296 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

egg, and then roll in cracker crumbs ; bat each one over with a palette 
knife, and place them separately in a frying pan with hot butter or lard 
and fry on both sides till a brown colour ; then dish up on a paper and 
use for breakfast or dinner, for an entree or second course, or for a 
maigre dish. They may be garnished with quartered lemons and raw 
green parsley. 

Grilled Oysters a la Virginie 
Huttres Grillees a la Virginie 

Take some fine raw fresh oysters, season with finely-chopped escha- 
lot, parsley, and fresh mushroom, pour a little warm butter over them, 
and then dip them into whole beaten-up raw egg and then into fresh 
browned breadcrumbs, and put separately into a hot grill-iron and cook 
before a clear fire for about five minutes. Dish up on a bed of sliced 
cooked tomatoes (see recipe). Put the liquor from the oysters into a 
stew-pan with two or three tablespoonfuls of good Espagnol sauce 
(vol. i.), bring to the boil, add a few drops of strained lemon juice, pour 
round the tomatoes, and Berve at once for a breakfast or luncheon or 
dinner dish. 

Coquilles a la Venitienne 
GoquiUes d la Venitienne 

Take some scollop shells (allowing one to each person) and rub them 
over with butter ; then place in each four raw bearded oysters, one sliced 
hard-boiled yolk of egg, three boned and filleted Christiania anchovies 
that have been cut up in little square pieces, and two or three cooked 
and sliced button mushrooms ; sprinkle over these a little finely-chopped 
parsley, and break into each shell half an ounce of butter in tiny pieces 



and a very little finely-chopped eschalot. Cover this over with sauce 
prepared as below, using a forcing bag with a large rose pipe for the 
purpose ; sprinkle over the top of this a few browned breadcrumbs ; 
place the shells on a baking-tin and put them in a moderate oven for 
about fifteen minutes ; then dish up on a hot dish on a napkin, and 
garnish each coquille with a little hard-boiled yolk of egg that has been 
rubbed through a wire sieve. Place a round of truffle on the top of 



OF EXTRA RECIPES BREAKFAST DISHES, ETC. 297 

each, and sprinkle with a little chopped parsley. Serve hot for a break- 
fast, luncheon, or second-course dish. 

Sauce for Coquilles A la Venitiexne. Put into a stewpan two 
ounces of butter and the same of fine flour, and fry together without 
browning ; then pound the beards of the oysters till smooth, and add them 
to the flour and butter, with two and a half gills of liquor from the oysters 
and the mushrooms. Stir these together over the fire till boiling ; season 
with a dust of Marshall's Coralline Pepper and a little salt ; add the juice 
of one lemon, a tablespoonful of thick cream, tammy, and use as in- 
structed above. 

Croutes a la Buckingham 
Cro&tes d hi Buckingham 

Cut some croutons of bread about two inches wide and a quarter- 
inch thick and fry them a pale golden colour, then place on each a little 
round piece of thinly-cut and crisply-fried bacon, and arrange on the 
bacon by means of a forcing bag and plain pipe about a dessertspoonful 
of mushroom puree (vol. i.), then place on this a raw bearded sauce 
oyster that has been steeped in warm butter, dusted over with a little 
coralline pepper, and sprinkled with a little lemon juice. Whip two 
whites of eggs, a pinch of salt, and a dust of coralline pepper till quite 
stiff, put it in a forcing bag with a large rose pipe and mask over the 
croutons forming the egg into cone shapes ; then sprinkle all over with 
grated Parmesan cheese, place the croutons on a baking-tin in a 
moderate oven for twelve to fifteen minutes, when the egg garnish 
should be a nice golden brown colour. Remove from the oven and dish 
up the croutons on a paper <>n a hot dish. Serve for breakfast, luncheon. 
or second course. 

Haddock with Oysters 
Merhiche mix Hultres 

Put a nice fresh dried haddock that has been trimmed into a clean 
buttered baking-tin, pour over it a quarter-pint of oyster liquor, the 
strained juice of two lemons, and a good sprinkling of coralline pepper, 
cover with a thickly-buttered paper, and stand the baking-tin in another 
containing boiling water and cook it in a moderate oven for about fifteen 
minutes ; then take up the haddock, place it on a hot flat dish, pour 
over it the prepared sauce, and serve very hot for breakfast. 

Sauce for Haddock. Put into a stewpan half an ounce of Marshall's 
Creme de Riz that is mixed with a gill of white wine, add to it the 



298 -MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

liquor from the fish, a teaspoonful of French mustard, stir till it boils, 
then add one and a half gills of cream and a dozen sauce oysters that have 
been bearded and sliced ; if too thick add a little more cream, and use. 



Slices of Haddock with Butter 
Tranches de Merluche cm Beurre 

Remove the fins from a nice dried haddock, and cut the fish into 
squares about three inches in diameter, put them into a saute pan, 
season with the juice of a lemon, cover with cold water, and just bring 
to the boil ; remove the scum, draw the pan to the side of the stove, and 
let the contents poach for about five minutes ; then take up the fish with 
a slice, just drain them on a hair sieve, dish them en couronne on a hot dish, 
pour over them some warm fresh butter, sprinkle over a little chopped 
raw green parsley and a little coralline pepper, and serve at once for a 
breakfast dish. 

Souffle" of Haddock a la Bruxelloise 

Souffle de Merluche a la Bruxelloise 

Remove all the bone and skin from a large dried haddock, and rub 
the fish through a coarse wire sieve. Put the skin and bones in a stew- 
pan with one or two sliced onions and a bunch of herbs (thyme, parsley, 
and bayleaf) ; cover with milk, add a pinch of salt, six or eight black and 
white peppercorns, and a few anchovy bones, or a dessertspoonful of 
anchovy essence ; put the pan on the stove and let the contents simmer 
till the milk is well flavoured, then strain it. Put into another stew- 
pan three ounces of butter, three ounces of fine flour, a pinch of salt, a 
dust of Marshall's Coralline Pepper, a dessertspoonful of anchovy essence, 
and four raw yolks of eggs ; mix these with three-quarters of a pint of the 
prepared milk, and stir together over the fire till it boils, then add three 
more table spoonfuls of the milk and half a pound of the prepared raw 
haddock ; mix this well together, then add, very carefully, so as not to 
curdle it, six whites of eggs that have been whipped stiffly with a pinch 
of salt. Butter a souffle tin and fasten a band of buttered paper round 
it, so that it stands about five inches above the case ; pour in the mix- 
ture, sprinkle over the top a few browned breadcrumbs, and place the 
souffle dish on a baking-tin in a moderate oven for about three-quarters 
of an hour ; then take up, remove the paper, sprinkle the souffle with a 
little raw green parsley, surround the souffle dish with a folded napkin, i 
and serve at once on a folded napkin or dish-paper for a second- course 
or breakfast dish. 



OF EXTRA RECIPES BREAKFAST DISHES, ETC. 299 

Zephyrs a la Maude 
Zephyr* d la M a/ude 

Take four whole raw eggs and whisk them well till the mixture runs 
quite freely from the whisk, then mix with it a dust of Marshall's Coral- 
line Pepper, a little salt, four tablespoonfuls of thick cream, one ounce 
of warm fresh butter, and six ounces of raw dried haddock that has 
been freed from skin and bone and then rubbed through a coarse wire 
sieve, six filleted Christiania anchovies, and one ounce of grated 




Parmesan cheese ; mix up together, add the strained juice of one lemon, 
and then put the mixture into little buttered dariol or hexagon moulds. 
Place these in a stewpan on a piece of paper, and pour into the pan 
sufficient boiling water to three-parts cover the moulds ; place the pan 
on the stove, watch the wafer reboil, then draw the pan to the edge of 
the stove and let the zephyrs remain till set ; turn them out of the 
moulds, and when a little cool dip them into fine flour, then into whole 
beaten-up raw egg and freshly-made white breadcrumbs, and fry in clean 
boiling fat till a pretty golden colour. When cooked, dish up on a dish- 
paper or napkin on a hot dish, and serve for a breakfast, savoury, or 
second-course dish. 

Croutes a la Madeleine 
Croritex d hi Madeleine 

Remove the fish from a raw dried haddock and rub it through a wire 
sieve ; weigh half a pound of it and mix into it a quarter-pound of warm 
butter, a dust of Marshall's Coralline Pepper, twelve finely-chopped 
Appetit Sild, a teaspoonful of fresh parsley, and a tablespoonful of thick 
cream ; stir together till quite smooth, then put the mixture into a 
forcing bag with rose pipe. Cut some pieces of bread about an inch 
thick and two inches wide, fry them a nice golden colour, and force out 
some of the puree on to each the full length of the bread; then put them 
on a tin on a paper, cover them over with a buttered paper and put 
them to cook in a moderate oven for about twelve minutes ; then take 
up, sprinkle a little coralline pepper over each, and serve hot on a dish^ 
paper for a savoury or for breakfast. 



300 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

Croutes a la Marjorie 
Croutes a la Marjorie 

Cut some slices of stale bread about a quarter of an inch thick, and 
stamp them out in rounds with a cutter about two inches in diameter ; 
fry these in olive oil or lard till a nice golden colour ; brush each over 
with a little warm glaze and sprinkle with chopped lax. Place on the 
top of each croute a stamped-out round of dried haddock that has been 
freed from bone and skin, made hot in a little fresh butter in the bain- 
marie, and sprinkled alternately round the edge with coralline pepper 
and finely-chopped raw green parsley. Garnish the centre of each round 
of haddock with very finely shredded hard-boiled white of egg and 
egg puree (see recipe), using for the latter a forcing bag with a small 
rose pipe. Dish up on a hot dish on a paper, garnish here and there 
with a little raw green parsley, and serve. This may be used for a 
savoury. 

Little Creams a la Malet 
Petits Pains a la Malet 

Put into a stewpan a quarter-pint of milk, one and a half ounces of 
butter, a pinch of salt, and a dust of Marshall's Coralline Pepper, just 
bring to the boil, mix into it two ounces of fine flour, and stir into a 
perfectly smooth paste on the stove till it boils ; then add the puree from 
six Christiania anchovies, a quarter-ounce of live lobster spawn, two 
ounces of lax that has been rubbed through a sieve, two whole raw 
beaten-up eggs, and a teaspoonful of finely-chopped raw green parsley. 
Mix up well together, put into a forcing bag with a plain pipe, and force 
out in portions about the size of a walnut into hot clean fat and fry 
them till a nice golden brown colour, keeping them well turned 
about while cooking ; then take them up, drain on a pastry-rack, dish 
up in a pile on a paper or napkin, garnish here and there with raw 
green parsley, and serve while quite hot for a savoury or luncheon dish. 

Little Creams a la Sylvie 

P elites Cremes a la Sylvie 

Pound three ounces of marinaded herrings with half a pound of cold 
fresh haddock or other fish, two raw ripe tomatoes, a dust of coralline 
pepper, one large tablespoonful of good Espagnol sauce (vol. i.), two 
ounces of fresh butter, two fresh mushrooms that have been chopped and 
cooked in a little butter till pulpy, mix with a teaspoonful of French 



OF EXTRA RECIPES BREAKFAST DISHES, ETC. 301 

mustard, a gill of cream, two raw yolks of eggs, and a teaspoonful of 
warm glaze ; put into the bain-marie and stir till the mixture is hot. 
Take some little china or paper cases, partly fill with the prepared 
mixture, sprinkle over a little finely-chopped raw parsley, dish up the 
cases on a hot dish, and serve for breakfast or second course. 

If paper cases are used, they must be rubbed on the outside with a 
little salad oil and dried in the screen before being used. 



Fish. Balls a la Saratoga 
Ballettes d I" Saratoga 

Take about half a pound of any cooked cold white fish, such as cod 
fish or turbot, chop it finely, then mix with it in a basin one raw egg, 
a tablespoonful of finely-chopped lax, a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, 
two ounces of freshly-made white breadcrumbs, a tiny dust of coralline 
pepper, and a little pinch of salt ; when quite smooth divide the mixture 
into portions of about a large teaspoonful, and then roll them up into little 
balls. Make a little well in the centre of each by pressing the finger in 
it, dipping the finger occasionally into flour: in the well place a piece 
of Anchovy butter (vol. i.), roll up the fish so as to keep the butter 
from running out. Prepare some water biscuits (see recipe) about two 
and a half inches in diameter, and brush these over on the top side with 
warm butter, and very slightly sprinkle with a dust of coralline pepper ; 
then place a ball of fish on the top of each biscuit, lightly brush the 
outside over with raw white of egg that is just mixed up with a fork ; 
place these on a baking-tin on a piece of foolscap paper, and put a 
buttered paper over the top and cook in a moderate oven for about 
fifteen minutes ; then dish up on a hot dish on a dish-paper, and serve 
for breakfast, luncheon, or second-course dish. These should be served 
quickly after being taken from the oven. Allow one to each person. 

Sole with. Tomato Butter 

Sole cii. Beurre de Tomates 

Take nice fresh live sole, trim off the fins and head, wash the fish 
well in cold water and salt, then dry it well in a clean cloth, place it on 
a buttered tin and sprinkle on it a tablespoonful of strained lemon juice, 
a little salt and coralline pepper ; cover over with a well-buttered paper, 
and put to cook in a moderate oven for ten to fifteen minutes, according to 
the size of the sole. When quite white and firm take up on a hot dish 
and sprinkle a little freshly-chopped raw green parsley on it, and serve 



302 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

round the fish some Tomato butter (vol. i.) into which the liquor from the 
cooking of the sole has been strained. Serve for dinner, luncheon, or 
breakfast, and while quite hot. Haddock or plaice are nice in the same 
way. 

Lobster a la St. Cloud 
Howard d la Saint-Cloud 

Line a mould about one-eighth of an inch thick with aspic jelly, and 
when this is set garnish it alternately with little bunches of green, red, 
and white garnish as below ; set these garnishes with a little more aspic 
jelly, and then arrange slices of cooked lobster all over it, setting them 
with aspic jelly ; fill up the inside of the mould with the ragout as 
below, and leave it till set ; then dip the mould into hot water, 
pass a clean cloth over the bottom of the mould to absorb any moisture, 
and turn out on to the dish on which it is to be served. If a mould 
with a pipe has been used, fill up the inside with any nice pieces of cold 



W 



ift 




fish that may have been left from a previous dinner mixed with a little 
crisp and well- washed lettuce, a few capers, and turned olives which may 
or may not be farced with anchovies ; season these altogether with a little 
salad oil, tarragon and chilli vinegar, and a little picked tarragon and 
chei*vil, and then cover the top with a good thick Mayonnaise sauce 
(vol. i.) to a good height, as in engraving ; sprinkle the Mayonnaise over 
with a little coral and chopped tarragon and chervil ; stick here and 
there a sprig of green tarragon and chervil, and garnish round the dish 
as a border with finely-chopped aspic jelly. 

Kagout for Lobster a la St. Cloud. Take about two ounces of 
cooked lobster, two ounces of any cooked fish, and three hard-boiled yolks 
of eggs, three large Christiania anchovies that have been boned, two or 
three French gherkins ; cut all in small dice shapes, and add about 
twelve very thinly cut slices of raw cucumber, and one tablespoonful of 



OF EXTRA EECIPES BREAKFAST DISHES, ETC. 30 



OUO 



raw small picked leaves of tarragon and chervil. Put them into a basin, 
and mix with a gill of thick Mayonnaise sauce, half a tablespoonful of 
tarragon vinegar, and two and a half gills of aspic jelly ; stir these all 
together on ice (if you have it) until the mixture begins to set ; then 
pour into the mould, and leave it until cool. 

Green Garnish for the Mould. Take a little mixed parsley, 
tarragon, and chervil, and put them into a stewpan with enough cold 
water to cover them, a tiny bit of soda and a pinch of salt ; bring to the 
boil, then strain and press quite dry ; rub through a sieve, and mix with 
it about three tablespoonfuls of aspic jelly, add a few drops of Marshall's 
Apple or Sap Green, and stir till cold ; then put it into a forcing bag 
with a plain pipe and force it out about the size of peas into the mould. 

Red Garnish for the Mould. Mix a little coral from the lobster 
in a stewpan with enough aspic jelly to make it moist, stir as for the 
green mixture till set, then put it into a forcing bag, and use in the same 
manner as the green. 

White Garnish for the Mould. Chop the white of a hard-boiled 
egg fine, then mix with it a teaspoonful of thick cream and half a gill 
of aspic jelly, stir till set, then put into a forcing bag and use as 
above. 

Lobster a la Nantes 
Hovwrd (1 In Nantes 

Take a perfectly fresh live lobster, put it to cook in boiling water 
well seasoned with salt, and boil for twenty minutes to half an hour ; 
then take up and remove fche claws, crack the shell, and remove the 
meat, and cut it into slices in a slanting direction about a quarter 
of an inch thick ; take all the creamy part from the head, and chop 
this fine. Take half a pint of Tomato sauce (vol. i.), add the creamy 
part of the lobster to it, with a wineglassful of claret, two chopped 
eschalots, and one ounce of good glaze ; boil for ten minutes, then stir 
into it twelve raw bearded sauce oysters, and add the cut lobster with a 
pinch of salt and raw parsley. Turn out in the centre of a border of 
poached eggs (vol. i.), that are arranged on round croutons of fried bread 
and sprinkled with a few shreds of French green gherkins ; use hot for a 
breakfast, luncheon, or dinner dish, or as an entree. 

Lobster Salad a la Metz 
Salade de Homard a la 3let:: 

Line some small egg moulds thinly with aspic jelly, and garnish 
them with tiny sprays of chervil and long Julienne strips of red and 



304 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

white egg garnish (see recipe), setting this all with aspic. Fill up 
the moulds with brunoise of cooked lobster, capers, and very thinly- 
sliced raw peeled cucumber ; add some aspic, and put them aside till 
set, then dip these moulds into hot water, turn them out, and dish 
on a border of aspic set in a piccolo border mould. Fill up the 
centre with little blocks of fish cream (see recipe c Fish Cream a la 
Metz ') and scalloped slices of raw cucumber. Garnish the dish with 
a salad of crisp lettuce and lobster seasoned with oil and vinegar. 
Serve with Mayonnaise sauce (vol. i.) round the dish for luncheon, 
second course, or a cold collation. 

Crayfish a la Bordelaise 
Ecrevisses a la Bordelaise 

Thoroughly wash some live crayfish in cold water until quite free 
from grit, then dry in a clean cloth, and put them into a stewpan with 
enough white wine to cover them, two wineglassfuls of sherry, a bunch 
of herbs (bayleaf, parsley, and thyme), two cloves, two slices of turnip, 
half a leek, a blade of mace, one Jamaica peppercorn, one carrot, two 
onions, and the heart of a stick of celery, all cut in thin slices ; let these boil 
for about twenty-five to thirty minutes, then strain the fish from the liquor; 
reserve one for each guest, to be used as described below; crack the shells* 
of the remainder, and remove the meat from them and put aside till ready 
to use. For six to eight people take four good-sized onions and one 



carrot; peel and cut them up in tiny dice shapes, and put them to 
blanch ; then strain and press from the water, and draw down in one 
ounce of good butter for about twenty minutes ; add the liquor in which 
the crayfish were cooked, and let them simmer till reduced to the 
consistency of thick paste ; add one ounce of glaze, tammy, and season 
with a little lemon juice, a pinch of castor sugar, a teaspoonful of 
chopped parsley, and a dust of Marshall's Coralline Pepper ; then place 
the meat of the crayfish in the sauce, and warm in the bain-marie. 
When ready to serve take some silver or china shell cases and fill them 
with this mixture ; place one of the whole crayfish (reserved for the 



OF EXTRA RECIPES BREAKFAST DISHES, ETC. 305 

purpose) on the top of each, and arrange the cups in an entree or flat 
dish on a napkin, as in engraving; garnish with green parsley, and 
serve very hot for a second-course dish or for an entree either for dinner 
or luncheon. 

Crayfish a la Parisienne 

Ecrevisses d ho Paridenne 

Take two or three dozen live crayfish and well wash them in several 
waters, then put them into a stewpan with a large onion sliced, good 
bunch of herbs, twelve peppercorns, and a little carrot and turnip ; add 
one or two wineglassfuls of white wine, and cover with any well-flavoured 
fish stock, bring them quickly to the boil, and let them simmer for about 
ten minutes ; take up, remove the heads, take out the flesh from the 
bodies and claws, and put this aside in a stewpan with a few button 
mushrooms and truffles, and some bearded blanched oysters. Make a 
border of farce as below, turn it out on a dish, and pour the sauce, as 
below, over it ; sprinkle it with a little chopped parsley and coral, and fill 
up the centre with the above ragout of crayfish, &c, and serve for 
an entree or in the fish course for dinner or luncheon. 

Farce for Crayfish a la Parisienne. Take half a pound of cooked 
lobster, six ounces of Panard (vol. i), one ounce of butter, a few drops of 
carmine, a dust of coralline pepper, one tablespoonful of thick Bechamel 
sauce (vol. i.), and a saltspoonful of essence of anchovy. Pound 
the fish till smooth, then remove it from the mortar and pound the 
panard and Bechamel together till smooth, then add the pounded 
fish and the other ingredients and two whole eggs, and mix altogether 
till smooth. Pass all through a coarse hair or fine wire sieve, and put 
in a mould that is well buttered and steam for about fifteen to twenty 
minutes. 

| Sauce for Crayfish A la Parisienne. Put two and a half ounces 
of butter into a stewpan with two ounces of fine flour, and fry lightly 
together without discolouring, and then mix with three-quarters of a pint 
of the stock in which the crayfish were cooked ; stir till it boils, add a 
dust of coralline pepper, the juice of a lemon, and half a gill of cream, 
and if you have a little live spawn pound it and stir it into the sauce, if 
not add a little of Marshall's Liquid Carmine, reboil, then tammy and use. 

Curried Prawns and Onions 
Crevettes en Kari aux Qignons 

Prepare a pint of sauce as for ' Curried Eggs a la Bengal ' (vol. i. 
page 306), make it hot in a bain-marie, and add to it one pint of fresh 

x 



306 AIRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

shelled or bottled prawns, cut up into slices, and a half-pint of small 
button onions that have been peeled and blanched and then plainly 
boiled ; mix together and boil up in the sauce, and dish up in a nice 
border of plainly boiled curry rice (vol. i.), garnished here and there 
with a little coralline pepper, finely-chopped raw green parsley, and 
saffron. Use for luncheon or dinner. 



Perch with Court Bouillon 

Perche an Court Bouillon 

Well wash and scale some fresh perch, remove the fins, trails, and 
eyes, dry them in a clean cloth and place them in a well-buttered 
stewpan with the strained juice of two lemons and two or three 
wineglassfuls of white wine, a little coralline pepper, salt, chopped 
eschalot, thyme, parsley, and bayleaf ; cover with a few strips of raw 
fat bacon aDd a buttered paper, stand the pan in a baking-tin 
containing boiling water, cook them in a moderate oven for twenty 
minutes, set aside till cold. Then remove the bacon and paper, dish up 
the fish on a dish, surround it with a border of picked well-washed 
watercress that is seasoned with salad oil, tarragon vinegar, and a little 
salt, and serve cold for breakfast or luncheon. 

Perch a la Gardiane 
Perche a la Gardiane 

Well wash and scale some fresh perch, remove the fins, eyes, and trail 
and dry them in a clean cloth, steep them in warm butter, sprinkle with 
a little chopped raw parsley, bayleaf, thyme, eschalot, salt, and coralline 
pepper, place them in a pie dish, season with the strained juice of 
two lemons, a wineglassful of French vinegar, and half a pint of good- 
flavoured stock ; cover with a buttered paper, stand the pie dish in a 
tin containing boiling water, and cook in a moderate oven for twenty to 
thirty minutes, then take up and set aside till the next day; then 
remove the paper, take up the fish and serve for breakfast or luncheon, 
or if cut into fillets it can be served as a savoury. 

Marinaded Herrings a la Mexique 
Harengs Marines a la Mexique 

Take some of Kriiger's marinaded fillets of herrings and cut them 
into strips ; twist these pieces inte' rings and arrange three or four of 



OF EXTRA RECIPES BREAKFAST DISHES, ETC. 307 

them on a crouton of fried bread, mask each over with. Vinaigrette 
sauce (vol. i. page 28), and dish them en couronne. Garnish the 
centre of the dish with little bunches of hard-boiled yolk of egg (that 
has been rubbed through a wire sieve), and then sprinkle over with 
some French capers chopped, cooked carrot that is seasoned with 
salad oil and tarragon vinegar, chopped parsley, and raw sliced tomato 
that is seasoned like the carrot. Serve for a savoury for dinner or 
luncheon. 

Fillets of Herring a la Pearlin 
Filets de Harenga d la Pewrlin 

Cut some slices of brown bread about a quarter of an inch thick, 
toast them, and spread on each some fresh butter ; sprinkle this while 
hot with some diy mustard, and spread on each some of the prepared 
puree ; arrange on this some of Ivriigcr's fillets of herring, placing them 
closely together, so that the thick part of one overlaps the thin part of 
the other ; then place the slices on a baking-tin, cover with a buttered 
paper, and cook in a moderate oven for about eight minutes. Then take 
up, trim the edges, and cut the slices across into strips the reverse way 
to the length of the fillets ; sprinkle over each strip a little hard-boiled 
yolk of egg that has been rubbed through a sieve, sprinkle on the top 
of the egg a little coralline pepper or lobster coral. Dish up en 
couronne on a dish-paper, and place on each a hot cooked crayfish body 
or prawn, and serve hot for breakfast or luncheon or as a savoury. 

Puree for masking Bread for Fillets of Herring A la Pearlin. 
Pound four boned Christiania anchovies with two of the fillets of herrings, 
one tablespoonful of thick Bechamel sauce (vol. i.), two hard-boiled yolks 
of eggs, one ounce of butter, a dust of coralline pepper, and a few drops 
of carmine ; rub through a wire sieve, and use. 



Herring Roes a la Broche 
Laitance de Ilareng d la Broche 

Take the soft roes from some fresh herrings, cleanse them and season 
them with a little coralline pepper, salt, and a little lemon juice ; place 
them in a buttered saute pan, brush them over with a little warm butter, 
put a paper over them, and cook in a moderate oven for about twelve 
minutes ; or, if the fresh roes are not obtainable, the preserved ones can 
be used, and are kept ready for use. Butter a slice of toasted bread 
with fresh butter, and spread over this a very thin layer of puree, pre- 

x 2 



308 MRS. A. B MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

pared as below ; place on top of this a layer of puree of mushrooms 
(vol. i.) about a quarter of an inch thick, then arrange on it the roes 
of the fish, prepared as above, about a half-inch apart, and cut the 
toast into strips of about two and a half inches long and about one 
inch wide. Dish these up on a hot dish on a dish-paper en couronne, 
garnish it here and there with a little raw green parsley and coralline 
pepper, and serve for a breakfast dish or for a savoury. 

PUREE FOR MASKING TOAST FOR HERRING ROES A LA BROCHE. 

Pound till smooth six boned Christiania anchovies with one ounce of 
lean cooked ham, six raw bearded oysters, one hard-boiled yolk of 
egg, a dust of coralline pepper, one ounce of butter, and a teaspoonful 
of French mustard ; then rub through a fine sieve, and use as directed 
above. 

Fillets of Herring Marinaded on Brown Bread 

Filets de Hareng Marines au Pain Bis 

Cut slices of stale brown bread about three-quarters of an inch thick, 
toast them on both sides, well butter one side, and place on them fillets 
of Kriiger's marinaded fillets of herring in white wine, placing the skin 
side of the fillets upwards ; then put these slices on a buttered tin in the 
oven for about three minutes, with a buttered paper over them ; trim 
the edges, and cut the toast and fillets into ' fingers,' sprinkle these 
alternately with lobster coral or Marshall's Coralline Pepper and chopped 
parsley, arrange in the dish on a dish-paper, and garnish with picked 
watercress seasoned with a little salad oil and tarragon vinegar. This 
dish can be served for breakfast, luncheon, or dinner savoury, and can 
also be prepared as a cold dish, when the fillets are merely placed on 
toast and cut and garnished in the same way. 

Croutes a la Prusse 

Croutes a la Prusse 

Take six or eight Kriiger's marinaded fillets of herring in white 
wine from the tin, and pound them till quite smooth with four 
hard-boiled yolks of eggs, two ounces of fresh butter, a dust of 
coralline pepper, a teaspoonful of French capers, and four turned 
Spanish olives ; then rub all through a fine hair sieve. Cut some slices 
of bread about a quarter of an inch thick, toast them, and well butter 
both sides whilst hot ; spread on one side a layer of the puree prepared 
as above, and then place on top of this another piece of the buttered 
toast to form a sandwich ; press* these well together with a palette 



OF EXTRA RECIPESBREAKFAST DISHES, ETC. 309 

knife, and then with a plain round cutter stamp them out in rounds 
about one and a half inches in diameter ; arrange en couronne on a hot 
dish, and pour over the sauce as below, sprinkle with a little finely- 
chopped caper or parsley and strips of French red chilli, and serve at 
once. The above quantities are sufficient for fourteen to eighteen 
croutes. These form a good breakfast or savoury dish. 

Sauce for Croutes a la Prusse. Put into a stewpan four raw 
yolks of eggs, a quarter of a pint of cream, one and a half ounces of 
fresh butter, the juice of one lemon, a dust of Marshall's Coralline 
Pepper, a saltspoonful of French mustard, and about six drops of 
Marshall's Liquid Carmine ; place the pan in the bain-marie, and stir 
the ingredients till they are of the consistency of cream ; then wring 
through the tammy, and use as directed. 

Little Cases a la Moderne 
Petites Cai8868 d I" Moderns 

Take some fillets of herrings (Kriiger's marinaded fillets of herrings 
i n white wine), cut them in halves, roll them up tin 1 skin side uppermost, 
and place them in little fancy lace or plain paper cases on a little 
lettuce salad, and lightly brush them over with a little liquid aspic jelly 
(vol. i.), and sprinkle over the tops of each a little coralline pepper, and 
form a border round the edges of the roll of herring with Montpellier 
butter (vol. i.) and Mayonnaise as below, using for both garnishes small 
bags with rose pipes ; garnish the top of each with two or three cooked 
crayfish bodies or prawns that are seasoned with a little salad oil and 
tarragon vinegar ; then serve on a dish-paper or napkin for a savoury 
or any cold service. 

Mayonnaise for Little Cases a la Moderne. Take two table- 
spoonfuls of thick Mayonnaise sauce (vol. i.) and mix with it two table- 
spoonfuls of liquid aspic jelly (vol. i.) and stir on ice till beginning to 
set, then put it in a forcing bag with a 'small rose pipe and form a border 
with it in roses, alternating the Mayonnaise with the Montpellier butter. 

Herring Roes a la Mode 
L(i,!tance de Hareng a la Mode 

Take some fresh or prepared herring roes, mask them, with mixed 
English mustard, season with a little lemon juice and coralline pepper, 
warm butter, chopped parsley and mushroom, roll each roe in a very 
thinly-cut piece of cooked fat bacon, dip each into frying batter (vol. i.), 



310 MBS. A. B. MABSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

and fry them in clean boiling fat till a nice golden colour and quite 
crisp. Then take up, place them on a hot dish on a paper, arranging 
them in a pile, garnish with raw green parsley and quarters of raw 
lemon ; place in each corner of the dish a few slices of raw ripe tomatoes 
that have been seasoned with a little salad oil, salt, coralline pepper, 
and a little tarragon vinegar. Serve while quite hot for luncheon, 
second course, or breakfast. 

Creams a la Polignac 

('rv id rs il In Polignac 

Put into a basin one tablespoonful of thick Bechamel sauce (vol. i.), 
a dust of cayenne pepper, a little salt, one and a half ounces of fresh 
butter broken up into small pieces, one finely-chopped eschalot, one 
bayleaf, a sprig of thyme, a little finely-chopped raw green parsley, one 
large fresh mushroom also chopped up, two ounces of finely-chopped lean 
cooked ham, and four raw yolks of eggs ; stir all together in the bain- 
marie till the mixture presents a creamy appearance ; then add to it the 
four whites of the eggs that have been whipped stiff, with a pinch of 
salt, taking care not to stir the mixture more than is absolutely necessary 
after the whites are added, or they will curdle. Take some little china 
pots or souffle cases, lightly butter them, and fill them three-parts full 
with the prepared mixture, sprinkle over each a little finely-chopped lean 
ham, and stand them in a stewpan on a fold of paper and pour in boiling 
water to half the depth of the moulds; watch the water reboil, then 
draw the pan to the side of the stove and poach the creams for fifteen 
minutes. Then take up, and dish up the creams on a napkin or dish- 
paper on a hot dish, and serve for breakfast, second course, or luncheon, 
always serving immediately the creams are poached. 

Little Creams a la Dugliere 
Petite* ( 'rcmes & la Dugliere 

Remove the meat from two or three large kippers, free it from skin 
and bone, and rub it through a wire sieve. Add to each quarter-pound 
six Kriiger's Appetit Sild, one ounce of finely-chopped lax, six cut-up 
sauce oysters, a dust of coralline pepper, a good pinch of chopped 
raw green parsley, two ounces of warm butter, a quarter of an ounce 
of fresh white breadcrumbs, two table spoonfuls of cream, and three 
whole beaten-up raw eggs. Well butter some sandwich moulds, fill 
them with the prepared mixture, place them in a baking-tin containing 
a little water on a fold of kitchen-paper, put them in the oven, and 



OF EXTRA RECIPES BREAKFAST DISHES, ETC. 311 

poach thein till firm ; then remove them from the oven, set them aside 
till cold, and turn out the little creams ; dust them with flour, dip each 
into whole beaten-up raw egg and into freshly-made white breadcrumbs ; 
place them in a frying basket, and fry in clean boiling fat till a nice 
golden colour. When cooked, arrange them on a napkin or dish-paper, 
sprinkle them alternately with a little shredded capsicum and French red 
chilli, and serve hot for a savoury or breakfast dish. These may also be 
served without being fried if wished, in which case they should be turned 
out of the moulds and served while hot. 



Curried Pish a la Durrand 
Poisson en Kari a la Durrand 

Cut up four large onions into dice shapes and fry them till a nice 
golden colour in two ounces of fat or butter, two chopped bayleaves, a 
sprig of thyme, and mix into this two tablespoonfuls of flour and a 
dessertspoonful of Marshall's Curry Powder, a dessertspoonful of chutney, 
one teaspoonful of curry paste, juice of two lemons, two pounded red 
chillies, one and a half pints of fish stock ; cook together for half an hour 
(or a little longer), then add one and a half pounds of any cooked fish 
(left from a previous meal would do), let the fish cook in the curry for 
about fifteen minutes, then turn it out on to a hot dish in a border of 
plainly boiled rice (vol. i.), and serve very hot. The above quantities 
are sufficient for six to eight persons. 

Pheasant a la Garfield 
JPaiscm & la Ga/rfield 

Take a pheasant which has hung for several days, pick, singe, and 
draw it, and cut it up as for a fricassee ; season it with Marshall's 
Coralline Pepper and salt, chopped bayleaf, thyme, and parsley, and the 
liver of the pheasant chopped fine ; put it into a stewpan with about 
two and a half dozen peeled and blanched button onions and one ounce 
of butter, and fry for about fifteen minutes ; then add to it the strained 
juice of one large lemon, three fresh mushrooms washed and chopped, a 
tablespoonful of fine flour, a tablespoonful of chutney, and one pint of 
thick Brown sauce (vol. i.) ; let it simmer gently on the side of the 
stove for three-quarters of an hour, then remove the fat, add a few drops 
of carmine, and dish up the bird in a pile. Pour the sauce round, 
garnish round with little bunches of Nouilles (vol. i.) that have been 
plainly boiled and strained, and the button onions that were cooked 



312 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

with the pheasant, also very small cooked tomatoes. Serve foi* a 
luncheon or dinner dish. Any remains of cold game can be employed 
in a similar manner. 

Pheasant a la Viennet 
Faisan d I" Viennet 

Take for eight persons about three-quarters of a pound of the 
remains of cold pheasant and cut it into dice shapes, cut three or four 
large onions in the same way, and put the latter into a stewpan with 
sufficient cold water to cover them ; add a pinch of salt and bring to the 
boil, then strain and rinse in cold water and put them to cook in about 
one and a quarter pints of new milk with a bunch of herbs till tender ; 
then remove the herbs and add to the onions two and a half ounces of 
fine flour and two ounces of butter (that have been fried together 
without discolouring), and stir till it boils again ; then add a gill of 
cream, and mix in about four ounces of grated Parmesan cheese. Take an 
entree dish, rub it over with butter, spread a layer of the prepared sauce 
on the bottom of it, and sprinkle on the sauce a thick layer of the 
pheasant prepared as above, then a layer of hard-boiled egg that has 
also been cut into dice shapes, and repeat these layers until the dish is 
full to within half an inch of the top, the last layer being a layer of 
sauce ; cover this with Cheese puree (see recipe), and put the dish into a 
quick oven for about twenty-five minutes, standing it in a pan con- 
taining water ; if the top of the entree is not a nice brown colour, 
brown it with a hot salamander. Then place the dish on another dish 
on a folded napkin, and garnish it here and there in rows with finely- 
chopped cooked lean ham or tongue, chicken, and hard-boiled yolk of 
egg that has been rubbed through a wire sieve. Serve for an entree for 
luncheon, dinner, or second course. Rabbit and other white meat can 
be served similarly. 

Devilled Slices of Game 
Tranches de Gibier d la Diabh 

Take any cooked cold game or poultry and cut it in neat pieces ; 
mask these with warm butter and then with Devil paste (vol. i.), and 
sprinkle them all over with browned breadcrumbs (vol. i.) ; place them 
in a tin with a little butter and cook them in a quick oven for about 
fifteen minutes, taking care not to dry them. Dish up on a dish-paper 
in a circle, and garnish the centre with well-washed and picked water- 
cress, seasoned with a little salt, salad oil, and a few drops of vinegar. 



OF EXTRA RECIPES BREAKFAST DISHES, ETC. 313 

Country Captain 
Gapitaine d la Campagne 

Take any pieces of cold game or poultry left from a previous meal, trim 
them neatly, dip into flour, place them in a stewpan with two ounces of 
butter, one tablespoonful of Marshall's Curry Powder, a pinch of salt and 
black pepper, and a good dust of Marshall's Coralline Pepper ; then fry 
till a nice brown colour, add the pulp of three tomatoes, half a pint of 
Tomato sauce (vol. i.) and just boil up again. Then dish up in a pile, 
cover with finely-sliced fried onions, garnish round with little croutons of 
fried bread to form a border, and arrange here and there some French red 
chillies and gherkins, and serve for luncheon or for an entree for dinner. 

Fried Onions for Country Captain. Peel four large onions and 
then slice them into rounds, and season them with salt and coralline 
pepper ; fry them till a nice golden colour, and tender in clarified butter 
or salad oil. 

Croutons for Country Captain. Cut the bread in little pieces an 
inch in length, and fry them till a prett}* golden colour in boiling fat, 
then strain them, and, just before serving, sprinkle them with a little 
chopped parsley, and use. 

Quails with Truffles 
Cailles an,,' Truffes 

Take three or four quails trussed for roasting and put them into a 
stewpan with the essence from a bottle of truffles and a wineglassful of 
sherry ; sprinkle in the pan about one ounce of chopped bacon to every 
quail, cover the pan down with the lid, and place it over a quick fire 
for about twenty minutes ; then remove the quails, add to the liquor 
half a pint of reduced Espagnol sauce (vol. i.) ; boil up together, then 
add four or five sliced truffles ; return the quails to the sauce, then take 
them up and dish up en couronne on cixmtons of fried bread, and serve 
with the sauce round. 

Croutes a la Bruyere 

Croutes d la Bruyere 

Cut some little croutons of bread about a quarter-inch thick and two 
inches in diameter, fry them in clean boiling fat till a nice golden colour 
and set aside till cold ; then mask each crouton with the purees prepared 
as below, using two forcing bags and large rose pipes for the purpose, 
rjiaking a ring of white and a ring of the red puree ; place in the centre 



314 MRS. A. B. MAESH ALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

of each a little of the prepared ragout, dish up, en couronne, on a dish- 
paper, and serve for luncheon, second course, or savoury. 

Ham Puree for Croutes a la Bruyere. Take four ounces of 
lean cooked ham, two tablespoonfuls of thick cream, one tablespoonful 
of thick Bechamel sauce (vol. i.), a dust of coralline pepper, two ounces 
of fresh butter, two hard-boiled yolks of eggs, and a few drops of 
liquid carmine to colour ; pound altogether till smooth, rub through a 
fine sieve, and use. 

Chicken Puree for Croutes a la Bruyere. Take a quarter- 
pound of cooked chicken or any white meat and pound it till smooth 
with a tablespoonful of thick Bechamel sauce (vol. i.), two tablespoonfuls 
of thick cream, a pinch of salt, a tiny dust of coralline pepper, two 
ounces of fresh butter ; rub all together through a fine sieve, and use as 
directed. 

Ragout for Croutes a la Bruyere. Take four or five turned 
Spanish olives, cut them into small dice shapes, three or four French 
gherkins, five or six boned and cleansed anchovies, one hard-boiled egg, 
and a tablespoonful of French capers ; mix all together with a little salad 
oil, tarragon and chilli vinegar, and a dust of coralline pepper, and use. 

Little Bombs a la Milan 
Petites Bombes d la Milan 

Well butter some little bomb moulds, and place in the top of each a 
thinly-cut round of cooked lean ham or tongue ; sprinkle the sides with 
finely-chopped raw parsley, then fill up the moulds with custard, as 
below, and place them in a stewpan containing boiling water to about 
three-fourths their depth, putting between them and the pan a piece of 
paper ; put the stewpan on the fire, watch the water reboil, then cover 
the pan, draw it to the edge of the stove, and let the contents poach till 
firm ; when cooked, take up and turn out the bombs on to a hot dish 
on a bed of grated Parmesan cheese, or with Cheese Cream sauce (see 
recipe). These should always be served quite hot, and are excellent 
for savoury or for luncheon. 

Custard for Bombs a la Milan. Put into a basin two ounces 
of grated Parmesan cheese, a dust of Marshall's Coralline Pepper, two 
ounces of finely-chopped cooked shrimps or lobster, a pinch of chopped 
parsley, three whole raw eggs that have been well beaten, two gills 
of thick cream, a pinch of salt, half a teaspoonful of anchovy essence, 
and three or four drops of Marshall's Carmine ; mix these ingredients 
altogether with a fork till smooth, then use. 



OF EXTRA RECIPES BREAKFAST DISHES, ETC. 315 

CrotLtes a la Langham 
Oroides d la Langham 

Take a slice of well-buttered toasted bread cut about a quarter-inch 
thick, place on it some Kriiger's Appetit Sild, laying the fish close to- 
gether, put on to a baking-tin, cover with a buttered paper, and cook 
them in a moderate oven for five to six minutes ; then take up, cut into 
strips two and a half inches long, dish them, en couronne, on a hot dish, 
pour all over sauce prepared as below, and serve while quite hot for 
breakfast or savoury for dinner. 

Sauce for Croutp:s a la Langham. Put into a stewpan one and 
a half gills of thick cream, the strained juice of a lemon, the puree from 
six Christiania anchovies, a dust of coralline pepper, three raw yolks of 
eggs, one and a half ounces of fresh butter ; stir over the fire in a bain- 
marie till the sauce thickens, tammy, and use. 

Little Bouches a la Paysanne 
Petites Bouchies d la Paysarme 

Break into a basin six whole raw eggs, season them with pepper and 
salt, add two tablespoonfuls of thick Soubise sauce (vol. i.), one ounce 
of grated Parmesan cheese, the same of Gruyere cheese, two gills of 
cream, a dust of cayenne pepper, and one ounce of cooked and finely- 
chopped chicken ; mix well together, and with it fill up some little plain 
bouche moulds that are well buttered ; place the moulds in a stewpan on 
a fold of paper, pour in boiling water to three-parts the depth of the 




moulds, watch the water reboil, then draw the pan to the side of the 
stove and let the contents poach for fifteen to twenty minutes. When 
firm take them up, turn out the bouches on to a potato border (vol. i.) 
on a hot dish, arranging them as shown in engraving ; sprinkle over them 
a little finely-shredded truffle and cooked ham or tongue, fill up the 
centre of the dish with macaroni prepared as below, and serve with the 
sauce over for a breakfast, luncheon, or second-course dish. 

Sauce for Little Bouches a la Paysanne. Put into a stewpan 
two raw yolks of eggs, a dust of cayenne pepper, and a pinch of salt, 



316 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

work into this by degrees four tablespoonfuls of cream, one ounce of fresh 
butter, a saltspoonful of French and the same of English mustard, a 
teaspoonful of lemon juice, four washed and boned anchovies (that have 
been rubbed through a sieve), and two or three drops of liquid carmine ; 
stir altogether in the bain-marie till thick, tammy, and use. 

Macaroni for Little Bouches a la Paysanne. Take a quarter- 
pound of Naples macaroni, put it into boiling water that is seasoned 
with a little salt, simmer till tender ; then drain well, cut it into one- 
inch lengths, and mix with a pat of fresh butter and a dust of coralline 
pepper, and use as directed above. 



Little Cheese Mousses a la Naples 
Petites Mousses de Frontage a la Naples 

Take some small fancy jelly moulds and line the top of each with a 
little liquid Aspic cream (vol. i.), mask the other part of the moulds 
with liquid Tomato puree as below, let this set, and then fill up the 
moulds with a Cheese mousse ; set them aside on ice ^till the mixture is 
cold and firm, then dip each into hot water, turn out on a clean cloth 
and arrange on a dish on a bed of grated Parmesan or Gruyere ; sprinkle 
with a little raw chopped parsley and coralline pepper, garnish with 
little cut blocks of aspic jelly round, and serve for a second-course or 
luncheon or ball-supper dish. 

Mixture for Centre of Moulds for Cheese Mousses i la 
Naples. Mix three tablespoonfuls of grated Parmesan cheese, the same 
of Gruyere, and a good dust of Marshall's Coralline Pepper with half 
a pint of whipped aspic jelly, a quarter-pint of whipped cream, one 
finely-chopped French red chilli (freed from pips) and a pinch of finely- 
chopped raw green parsley ; mix together and then use. 

Tomato Puree for Cheese Mousses a la Naples. Pound till 
smooth two or three good raw ripe tomatoes, then mix with a dust 
of coralline pepper, a few drops of carmine, a teaspoonful of French 
and the same of mixed English mustard, and half a pint of aspic jelly ; 
rub through a tammy and use when cooling. 

Eclairs a la Palinerston 

Eclairs d la Palmerston 

Put into a stewpan half a pint of water, four ounces of butter, a dust 
of coralline pepper, and a good pinch of salt ; let this boil, then mix in 
five ounces of fine flour and cook on the side of the stove for ten minutes , 



OF EXTRA RECIPES BREAKFAST DISHES, ETC. 317 

stirring it occasionally ; remove it from the stove and let the mixture 
cool a little, then add by degrees three whole raw eggs, working the 
paste quickly with a wooden spoon. When it is quite smooth add two 
large tablespoonfuls of grated Parmesan cheese, mix up well, put the 
paste into a forcing bag with a plain pipe and force it out on to a greased 
baking-tin in lengths of about three inches by one inch, as shown in 




design ; brush them over with whole beaten-up egg, and bake in a 
moderate oven for about twenty-three minutes ; then remove and cut 
them longways, and fill them by means of a forcing bag and pipe with 
the Cheese custard (see recipe) or whipped cream ; dish them up in a 
pile on a dish-paper or napkin. Serve hot or cold for luncheon or dinner 
savoury. 

Timbal a la Jardiniere 
Timbale a la Jardiniere 

Line a fancy border mould, as shown in design, with aspic jelly about 
the eighth of an inch thick, then garnish it with little fresh sprigs of 
raw chervil and tarragon, and here and there place in the mould some 
quarters of hard-boiled eggs that are garnished with strips of French 
red chilli, and then set in the mould with a little aspic jelly, and fill up 
the inside of the mould between the egg with a cooked macedoine of 
vegetables; set this with cool aspic jelly and place on ice till quite 
firm, then dip the mould into hot water and turn out on a flat cold dish, 
and fill up the centre of the timbal with any nice cooked meat, such as 



318 MES. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKEEY BOOK 

chicken or other bird that is cut into thin slices and seasoned with 
Vinaigrette sauce (vol. i.) ; then by means of a large forcing bag and 

A 




rose pipe cover over with a good thick Mayonnaise sauce (vol. i.). 
Serve for a second-course dish, or for luncheon, &c. 

The macedoine of vegetables is kept ready for use in bottles or 
tins, and has only to be strained and used, or fresh vegetables can be 
boiled for them. 

Appetit Sild a la Saint -Cloud 
Appetit Sild d la Saint-Cloud 

Take some small French rolls and cut them into rounds a quarter of 
an inch thick, fry them in clean boiling fat till a nice golden colour, 
place them on a hot dish, pour over each some of the prepared puree as 
below, place on top of the puree two prawns or crayfish bodies (in bottle) 
that have been warmed in a little butter, sprinkle over them a dust of 
finely-chopped raw parsley, and serve at once for a breakfast or savoury 
dish. 

Puree for Appetit Sild a la Saint-Cloud. Take, for twelve 
croiites, about twelve appetit sild. four hard-boiled yolks of eggs, 
a teaspoonful of French mustard, four large sauce oysters pounded 
with two tablespoonfuls of Tomato sauce (vol. i.), one ounce of butter, 
and rub through a hair sieve ; stir in the bain-marie till the mixture 
thickens, add a gill and a half of thick cream, the strained oyster 
liquor, and a dessertspoonful of capers, and use. 

Anchovies a la Creme 
Anchois & la Creme 

Open some Christiania anchovies down the back, remove the bone, 
head, and tail, place each anchovy on a long crouton of fried bread, 
allowing one crouton to each person, cover them with a buttered paper, 
and cook them in a moderate oven for about five minutes ; then take up, 



OF EXTRA RECIPES BREAKFAST DISHES, ETC. 319 

arrange them en couronne on a hot dish, cover entirely with the sauce as 
for ' Croutes a la Prusse,' sprinkle over it a little coralline pepper and 
chopped lax, and serve hot for a savoury or breakfast dish. 

Bel in Terrine 

Anguille en Terrine 

Remove the skin and bone from a nice fresh eel, bat it out quite flat 
with a cold wet chopping-knife, season it with salt, finely-chopped bay- 
leaf, thyme, parsley, lemon juice, and chopped eschalot ; cut up the eel 
in lengths of about two and a half to three inches, according to the size 
of the terrine in which the eel is to be cooked ; place the eel in layers in 
the jar very closely together, sprinkle them with sufficient sherry and 
white wine to just cover them, put one ounce of glaze and a piece of raw 
fat bacon on the top, place the cover on the jar and stand it in a tin of 
boiling water to three-parts the depth of the jar, and stand it in a mode- 
rate oven for forty to sixty minutes ; then take up and put to press till 
cold, clean round the top of the jar, replace the lid, and serve on a folded 
napkin or dish-paper on a flat dish as a breakfast or luncheon dish. This 
dish will make nice salads, sandwiches, &c, and can be kept ready for 
use at any time. 

Salmon Salad 
Si i lade de Saumon 

Take one and a half to two pounds of cold boiled salmon, free it from 
skin and bone and pick it into nice flaky pieces, season it well with salad 
oil, tarragon and chilli vinegar, a little raw dry mustard and mignonette 
pepper. Take the best parts from a nice, fresh, crisp, well- washed lettuce 
and a root of chicory, add to it two finely-chopped eschalots, a dessert- 
spoonful of French capers, six boned Ohristiania anchovies cut up into 
little dice shapes, one peeled and sliced cucumber, and then mix up in 
a basin with a wooden spoon a quarter-pint of salad oil, two tablespoon- 
fuls of thick cream, two raw yolks of eggs, a dessertspoonful of French 
mustard, a pinch of castor sugar, and half a gill of tarragon vinegar ; 
mix up well together, and arrange a layer on an entree or flat dish, then 
place on this a layer of the salmon, then another of the salad, and so on, 
until the dish is full ; garnish round the dish with prettily stamped-out 
slices of beetroot and cucumber, hard-boiled yolk of egg that is sprinkled 
with lobster coral or coralline pepper ; place here and there an olive 
farced with anchovies and some cooked or prepared prawns ; serve for 
dinner, luncheon, or ball suppers. The above quantities are sufficient 
for eight to ten people. 



320 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

Skate in Salad a la Venise 
Raie en Scdade d Ifi Venise 

Put a pound of nice fresh skate on a baking-tin, season it with the 
juice of a lemon, a little salt and coralline pepper, add a wineglassful of 
white wine and two ounces of butter, cover over with a buttered paper, 
and stand the tin in another tin containing boiling water and cook the 
fish in a moderate oven for about eighteen minutes. When cooked take 
up, pick the fish from the bone, pour over it the liquor in which it was 
cooked, and set it aside till cold ; then sprinkle over it some finely-chopped 
eschalot, French gherkin shredded, some finely-chopped raw green 
parsley, a little coralline pepper, four hard-boiled eggs cut in dice shapes, 
half a pound of cooked Salsifies (vol. i. p. 90) cut up in small pieces, 
six sardines that have been freed from skin and bone and rubbed through 
a sieve ; mix all together with two raw yolks of eggs, a wineglassful 
of tarragon vinegar and a quarter-pint of stiffly-whipped cream. Dish 
up in a pile, sprinkle over it a little lobster coral, and serve in the fish 
course for dinner or luncheon. 

Little Coquilles a la Monclaine 
Petitea GoquiUes d la Mondaine 

Lightly butter some little china or plated coquille shells, and line 
them with a puree of game about an eighth of an inch thick ; then 
arrange the mushrooms, as prepared below, and raw bearded oysters 
alternately in the shells, and by means of a forcing bag and pipe mask 
them over with the Masking sauce for coquilles (see recipe) ; then with 




another forcing bag and large rose pipe cover them with whipped eggs, 
and place the shells on a baking-tin ; sprinkle them with browned bread- 
crumbs, and bake in a quick oven for twelve to fifteen minutes, when 
they should be a nice golden colour. Dish up on a dish-paper on an 
entree dish, and serve one to each person for dinner or luncheon. 

Mushrooms for Little Coquilles a la Mondaine. Well wash, 
peel, and dry some fresh mushrooms, and stamp them out with a round 
cutter into little rounds about the size of a penny piece, place them in a 



OF EXTRA RECIPES BREAKFAST DISHES, ETC. 321 

buttered stewpan with a little pepper, salt, and oyster liquor ; cook till 
tender, take up, and use. 

Puree of Game for Little Coquilles a la Mondaine. Add to 
half a pound of cooked game two tablespoonfuls of cold Brown sauce 
(vol. i.), a tablespoonful of port wine, a dust of coralline pepper, and 
a teaspoonful of Bovril ; pound these till smooth, then rub through a 
sieve, and use. 

Curried Chicken a l'Anglaise 
Ponlet en Kari d l'Anglaise 

Pick, singe, and cleanse a chicken, cut it into neat joints, season with 
ground black pepper and salt, and put it into a stewpan with four large 
or six small onions cut in dice shapes, two or three sour apples, sliced, 
and fry in two ounces of butter with a bunch of herbs ; then mix in a 
large tablespoonful of flour and a tablespoonful of Marshall's Curry 
Powder, the same of chutney, and a teaspoonful of curry paste, and the 
juice of a lemon ; pour over this one and a half pints of light stock or 
water, and cook on the side of the stove for rather better than half an 
hour ; then remove the meat, and pass the puree through the tammy, 
add a gill of cream to it, put the chicken in, and make quite hot. Dish 
up on a border of rice (vol. i.). Serve for an entree for dinner or 
luncheon. 

Chicken in Casserole 
Poulet en Casserole 

Pick and singe a nice fat chicken, and truss it as for braising ; rub 
it all over with butter, then put it into % the casserole bowl with about 
one and a half pints of really good flavoured stock made from game or 
poultry bones, a quarter of a pound of streaky bacon cut up into strips 
about an inch long, two wineglassfuls of sherry, mixed with an ounce of 
arrowroot, a teaspoonful of Boviil, a bunch of herbs, two peeled eschalots, 
and one or two fresh mushrooms, all tied up in a piece of muslin ; 
put the bowl in a well-heated oven, and let the chicken cook for about 
thirty to forty minutes, during which time frequently baste it, and, if 
needed, add a little more good stock whilst cooking. The bird should 
be a nice golden colour when ready. Take out the muslin bag with its 
contents, remove the strings from the bird, skim the fat from the gravy, 
then place the bowl on a flat dish on a napkin, and serve at once. 
Other birds are excellent prepared in a similar manner, and may be 
served for a remove, or as a second-course or luncheon dish. They 
must always be served very hot. 

Y 



322 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

Chicken a la Toulouse 
Poulet d I" Toulouse 

Take a picked, singed, and cleansed chicken or poularde, well rub it 
with lemon juice, truss it for boiling, place it in a buttered paper and 
put it into a saucepan with enough cold water to cover it, with four 
peeled and sliced onions, a bunch of herbs (thyme, parsley, and bay leaf), 
a little salt, and a few peppercorns ; place the pan on the stove and let it 
come to the boil, skim, and simmer for about an hour or longer according 
to size. When cooked take up, remove the paper and strings, pour 
a rich Veloute sauce (vol. i.) all over it, garnish with Financiere and 
sliced truffle, slices of tongue, Chicken Quenelles (see recipe), and cooked 
button mushrooms. Place some hatelet skewers in the fowl, and serve 
for luncheon, dinner, or as a remove for a party. 

Slices of Chicken a la Diable 
Tranches de Volaille d l<< Diable 

Take any nice neatly-cut slices of cooked chicken (boiled or roast, 
that left from a previous meal will answer the purpose), place them on 
a plate, season with a little salt, and pour over them a little warm butter, 
then mask them over with Devil paste (vol. i. page 32), put on a hot 
grill-iron and grill or broil till a nice brown colour and quite crisp on the 
outside. Dish up in a pile, garnish with bunches of watercress salad, 
and serve for a breakfast, luncheon, or second-course dish in place of a 
roast. Any kind of game or poultry can be used in the same way. 

Chicken Puree a la Chevet 
Puree de Volatile a la Che vet 

Take any remains of cold chicken, free it from skin and bone, and 
pound it till quite smooth, then mix it with enough thick Soubise sauce 
(vol. i.)to make it into a stiff paste, season with a little salt, then rub 
through a wire sieve, make the mixture quite hot in the bain-marie ; 
then put it into a forcing bag with a large rose pipe and force it out in 
the form of a border on to a hot entree dish, garnish it round with 
bunches of buttered rice, as below, and quarters of hard-boiled eggs (or 
whole plovers' eggs when in season). Serve very hot for a luncheon or 
second-course dish. 

Buttered Rice for Garnish for Chicken Puree a la Chevet. 
Bring a quarter of a pound of Patna rice to the boil, then strain and wash 



p 



OF EXTRA RECIPES BREAKFAST DISHES, ETC. 323 

it well in cold water, return it to a stewpan of boiling water, of which 
there should be plenty to completely cover the rice, season with a little 
salt, boil for twelve to fifteen minutes, strain, and rinse with boiling water, 
and leave in the colander to dry. When dry turn out on to a baking- 
tin, pour over it a little warm butter, sprinkle with a little of Marshall's 
Curry Powder, and put into a hot oven for about five minutes ; then 
use, and when arranged round the puree pour over it a little Tomato 
butter (vol. i.). 

Spread Eagle 
Aigle Eployee 

Take a nice fat bird, either chicken, partridge, &c, singe and cleanse 
it and split it down the back ; leave the wings on, but remove the breast 
bone, and season it well inside with a little pepper, salt, and mixed 
English and French mustard, spreading this well over it. Sprinkle over 
it some chopped lean cooked or raw ham, and some eschalot, thyme, 
parsley, and bayleaf. Cut off the lower part of the legs just above the 
joint, and crack the bones just below the first joint ; then place the 
feet of the bird into the spaces the bones have been taken from, first 
cleansing the feet : then skewer up the bird in a flat form; brush it well 
over with warm butter or dripping, put it on a well-buttered baking-tin 
and cook it in a moderate oven for about twenty minutes, keeping it 
well basted while cooking ; then take up, remove the trussing skewers 
and replace them with silver ones. Dish up the chicken on a hot dish, 
garnish the top and bottom of the dish with a watercress salad, and 
serve, with Capsicum sauce (see recipe) round the dish, for breakfast, 
luncheon, or second course. 

Calf's Head Collared 

THe de Veau 

Cleanse half a calf's head and \aj it in strongly-salted cold water for 
twenty-four hours before cooking, changing the water occasionally ; then 
remove the brains and eye, put the head into a clean cloth, place it in a 
stewpan, cover with cold water, just bring to the boil, then strain and rinse 
in cold water. Return the head to the pan, cover it with light rabbit or 
chicken stock, some white meat bones, six bayleaves, three sprigs each of 
thyme, parsley, basil, marjoram, four eschalots, two blades of mace ; add 
one pound of bacon cut up in dice, twenty-four peppercorns, twelve cloves 
and twelve Jamaica peppers, and let it simmer for three and a half to four 

Y 2 



324 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

hours. Then carefully take up the head on a dish, remove the cloth, 
take out the bones, sprinkle over with Marshall's Coralline Pepper, a 
little salt, some chopped thyme, parsley, and bayleaf ; place some good- 
coloured slices of cooked ox-tongue on the seasoning cut about a quarter 
of an inch thick (the tongue from the head can also be cut up and used 
in the same way) ; mask the slices of tongue over with the puree prepared 
as below, sprinkle over some of the seasoning as used for the head, 
arrange on the puree ten or twelve hard-boiled yolks of eggs, pressing 
them well in, roll up the head in the form of a cake or galantine (or it 
may be put in a cake-tin), and tie it up well with broad tape. Take 
the gravy prepared as below and pour it entirely over the head, place 
a dish on the head with a weight on the top, and leave it in a cool 
place till next day ; then remove the dish and weight, and arrange the 
head on a dish, serving the jelly round if liked ; garnish with a little 
raw green parsley, and serve for breakfast, luncheon, or for any cold 
collation. 

Puree for Calf's Head. Pound one and a half pounds of cooked 
fat and lean ham with four peeled eschalots and rub it through a wire 
sieve, colour it a bright red with a little carmine, flavour with a little 
coralline pepper and two wineglassfuls of sherry, and use as directed 
above. 

Gravy for Calf's Head. Mix three pints of the gravy freed from 
fat in which the head was cooked with three ounces of Marshall's gela- 
tine, add to it half a pint of sherry, three bayleaves, the juice of two 
lemons, a teaspoonful of black and white peppercorns, and four whites 
of eggs ; stir together over the fire till it boils, simmer for about twenty 
minutes, strain through a tammy, and use when cooling. 



Croustades of Calf's Brains Devilled 

Croustades de Cervelles de Veau a la Diable 

Cut out into cutlet shapes some toasted and well-buttered slices ot 
bread in thickness about a quarter of an inch, sprinkle with Gruyere 
cheese, put a slice of blanched calf's brains (vol. i.) on each, mask the 
slices with English and French mustard, and season with a dust of 
Marshall's Coralline Pepper ; sprinkle a little more grated cheese and 
browned breadcrumbs on the top ; put in the oven till the cheese 
begins to melt, then serve on a dish-paper and garnish with water- 
cress salad. Use for luncheon dish or dinner savoury while quite 
hot. 



OF EXTRA RECIPES BREAKFAST DISHES, ETC. 325 

Calf's Brains a la St. Stephen's 
Cervelles de Veau a la St. Stephen's 

Take some cleansed and blanched calf's brains (vol. i.), cut them 
into neat slices about a quarter-inch thick, and then into little pieces, dish 
them on a border of puree of potatoes (vol. i.) that has been arranged 
by means of a forcing bag and large rose pipe on a hot entree dish ; fill 
up the centre with peas, pour some Tomato puree (vol. i.) round the dish, 
brush over the brains with a little light thin glaze, sprinkle over this a 
little chopped lean ham or tongue, arrange some small heart-shaped 
croutons of bread (see recipe, ' Chicken a la Rubanee ') all round the dish 
in the form of a border, and serve while quite hot for dinner or luncheon. 
Sheep's brains are nice prepared in the same way. 

Fillets of Veal a la Boulanger 
Filets de Venn <} la Boulanger 

Cut some nice neat slices from a piece of fillet of veal, bat them out 
with a cold wet chopping-knife, and trim them into neat little rounds 
about two inches in diameter ; season them with salt and coralline 
pepper. Put into a saute pan one and a half ounces of butter, three 
sliced onions ; place the fillets on these, cover with a well-buttered paper, 
put the lid on the pan, stand it on the stove and fry the contents for 
fifteen to twenty minutes ; then add to it the juice of two lemons, two 
chopped capsicums, a bunch of herbs (bayleaf, thyme, and parsley), 
sprinkle over it one ounce of Creme de Riz, one pint of gravy, a few 
drops of liquid carmine, two large raw ripe sliced tomatoes, a tea- 
spoonful of Liebig Company's Extract of Meat, or an ounce of glaze. 
Return the pan to the fire, watch the liquor boil, then cover with the lid, 
draw the pan to the side of the stove and let the contents simmer for 
about an hour, occasionally adding a little more gravy if that in the 
pan becomes too thick. Then remove the fillets, take all fat from the 
sauce, and rub the contents of the pan through the tammy ; re-warm the 
fillets in the sauce, dish them up on a border of potato (vol. i.) with the 
sauce round the base of the dish, and a puree of apples in the centre ; 
serve for an entree for dinner or luncheon. 

Apple Puree for Fillets of Veal a la Boulanger. Put two 
pounds of peeled and sliced good cooking apples into a stewpan 
with the juice of two lemons, one ounce of butter, two tablespoonfuls of 
water ; boil to a pulp, rub through a fine hair sieve, re-warm in the 
bain-marie, and use by means of a forcing bag and large rose pipe. 
If the apples are juicy do not add the water. 



326 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

Fillets of Veal with. Anchovy Butter 

Filets de Vean au Beurre d'Anchois 

Take a piece of lean fillet of veal, cut it into pieces about an inch 
thick by two inches wide, bat out with a cold wet chopping-knife, then 
season with salt and Marshall's Coralline Pepper, a little finely- chopped 
eschalot and raw parsley ; steep in warm butter, and dip into freshly- 
made white breadcrumbs, and grill or broil in front of a brisk fire till a 
nice golden colour on both sides. Then dish up on a puree of potatoes 
(vol. i.), place on the top of each a piece of Anchovy butter (vol. i.) 
about the size of a walnut, and place in the centre of the butter a pre- 
pared farced olive and a filleted Christiania anchovy. Sprinkle over, by 
means of a paste brush, some warm glaze, and serve at once for dinner, 
or luncheon, or breakfast. 

Veal Outlets a la Jardiniere 

Cotelettes de Veau a la Jardiniere 

Cut some cutlets as small as possible from the best end of the neck 
of veal, remove all the skin from them and bat them out with a palette 
knife, dipping the knife occasionally in cold water to prevent the cutlets 
sticking ; then lard the cutlets round the edge with fat bacon and put 
them into a saute pan or stewpan that is buttered, and fry them gently 
on the side that is not larded for about ten to fifteen minutes ; then add 
about a quarter-pint of stock, put a buttered paper over and the lid on 
the pan, and braise them for about three-quarters of an hour, adding a 
little more stock as that in the pan reduces. Dish them up on a border 
of potatoes (vol. i.) or spinach (vol. i.) ; glaze them lightly over and 
garnish with a macedoine of vegetables ; remove the fat from the gravy 
the cutlets were cooked in, boil it up again, and serve it round the dish. 
These are nice to serve in place of a joint for dinner or luncheon or, if 
cut small, for an entree. 

Tripe. General Directions 

Tripe requires very great care to clean it. It must be well and 
gently washed in the first instance. It is well after washing it to leave 
it under a water tap, that the water may continually drop on it and also 
pass away, for several hours. It must then be blanched with salt and 
water that is, put it on the stove with plenty of cold water with a good 
lump or two of salt ; watch it carefnlly, and when it is just at boiling 



OF EXTRA RECIPES BREAKFAST DISHES, ETC. 327 

point pour off the hot water and immerse it in cold water, wash it 
thoroughly well until quite cold, then place if on a board or table and 
scrape it well with the point of an iron spoon. When well scraped on 
the rough side wash and blanch again as before, then put to boil in 
cold water with salt to season, skim constantly and let it continue 
boiling for ten to twelve hours ; boiling fast will make it eat tough. 
It is then ready to use in any of the following ways. For some dishes 
the tripe requires again to be cooked for some hours, as mentioned in 
the recipes. 

Tripe a l'Anglaise 

Cut two pounds of freshly-boiled tripe (see Tripe, General Directions) 
into little squares about one and a half inches in diameter, put them 
into a stewpan with eight peeled onions that are very finely sliced, add 
to them three pints of new milk, season with a dessertspoonful of salt 
and a bunch of herbs tied up together in a piece of muslin ; just bring 
to the boil, draw the pan to the side of the stove and let the contents 
simmer for two and a half to three hours. Mix together in a basin till 
smooth three ounces of sifted fine flour, one and a half gills of thick 
cream, two ounces of butter broken into little pieces, then stir this on 
to the tripe, reboil, and let it simmer for another five minutes ; remove 
the herbs and turn out the tripe on to a nice hot entree dish, and serve 
for luncheon or dinner in the place of a joint. 



Roast Tripe and Brown Caper Sauce 

Boil in milk for two hours, cut in two oblong pieces of equal size, 
spread on the fat side of one piece a good Veal farce (vol. i.). and lay the 
other piece on the top. Roll it up in well-greased paper, tie it up and 
roast or bake it, keep it well basted ; roast for one hour. When it has 
been roasting three-quarters of an hour remove the paper, brush over 
with egg, and sprinkle over it some browned breadcrumbs, put it to a 
brisk fire to crisp it well, and when ready to dish up serve with brown 
Caper sauce (vol. i.) round, or in a sauceboat. 

Tripe a la Francaise 

Cut up the tripe in small square pieces, fry it in fresh butter till a 
light fawn colour, then cover with good white stock, such as from boiled 
rabbit or veal or chicken, add four tablespoonfuls of chopped mushrooms. 



328 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

one tablespoonful of chopped parsley, two eschalots, two bayleaves 
chopped fine, little pepper and salt ; pour over these a quarter-pint of 
thick Bechamel sauce (vol. i.), stir till it boils, and cook for two hours 
very gently ; add more stock as it reduces until it is the thickness of 
nice melted butter. Serve in a very hot deep dish with the sauce poured 
over. 

Tripe a la Normande 

Cut about two pounds of tripe into pieces about an inch square, put 
it in a pan with one ounce of fresh butter, two large onions, herbs, 
such as parsley, thyme, ' bayleaf, tied together, a quarter-pound of fat 
bacon cut in small dice, and a few fresh mushrooms; fry all till a 
good golden colour, then add two small tablespoonfuls of fine flour 
half a pint of white wine, half a pint of water,, and a teaspoonful of 
Bovril. . Cook very slowly for two hours, adding more wine or water 
as the tripe cooks. Remove the fat ; serve, with puree of mushrooms 
(vol. i.) as a border round it. 

Tripe a la Provencale 

Cut up the tripe in lengths of about one inch, cover it with cold 
water, add a little salt ; when it boils strain off and wash well in cold 
water, put it to cook in enough cold water to cover it ; let it boil very 
slowly for two hours, not allowing it to go off the boil while on the 
stove ; strain it off on a sieve and well drain it. Put about one ounce 
of butter in a pan with about four very finely sliced onions to one pound 
of tripe, a little pepper and salt, a bunch of herbs, such as thyme, parsley, 
and bayleaf; fry all until a good golden colour, which will take about 
a quarter of an hour over a moderate stove, then add about two 
ounces fine flour. Skin six tomatoes and slice them, add the juice'of 
one lemon and about one and a half pints of good stock. Let this boil 
and skim it well; let it continue boiling again for about one and a half 
hours, taking great care that it does not boil fast, as this would make 
it tough. Remove the bunch of herbs, take off any fat from the top, and 
serve, with fried croutons round the base, very hot. 

Tripe in Fritot a la St. James 

Cut a pound of freshly-cooked tripe into pieces about one and a half 
inches square, and put them into a stewpan with one and a half pints 
of reduced Espagnol sauce (vol. i.), one wineglassful of white wine, and 



OF EXTRA RECIPES BREAKFAST DISHES, ETC. 329 

one chopped eschalot; just bring to tbe boil, then draw the pan to the 
side of the stove and let the contents simmer till the tripe is tender, 
removing any fat that may rise to the surface. Then take up the tripe ; 
dissolve in the sauce four sheets of Marshall's gelatine, let it cool a little, 
then mask the pieces with it, and put them aside till cold, and wrap 
each piece in a small cleansed dry piece of pork caul ; dip each into 
frying batter (vol. i.), and then fry them in clean boiling fat a nice 
golden colour, turning them frequently with a slice. When cooked, drain 
them on a pastry-rack, dish up on a paper on a hot dish, garnish with 
fried parsley (vol. i.), and serve for an entree for dinner or luncheon. 

Tripe a la Chantilly 

Take about two pounds of cooked tripe, and cut it into strips a 
quarter of an inch thick and two and a half inches in length, put it 
into a stewpan with a little salt and sufficient cold water to cover it, and 
just bring to the boil ; then strain and drain well on a hair sieve. Put 
into another pan two ounces of butter, six finely-sliced onions, season 
with a teaspoonful of salt and a good pinch of coralline pepper, and fry 
together for about twenty minutes, stirring them now and again with a 
wooden spoon. Then add to the tripe four ounces of Marshall's Creme 
de Riz, a bunch of herbs, the strained juice of two lemons, one ounce of 
glaze, the puree and liquor from a tin of tomatoes, a quarter-pint of mush- 
room Hquor,half a pound of lean raw bacon or ham cut into tiny dice shapes, 
and two French red chillies chopped fine ; stand the pan again over the 
tire and let the contents simmer for two and a half hours, shaking the 
pan about frequently during that time ; remove any fat that may rise, 
add one dozen sliced cooked button mushrooms, remove the herbs, and 
turn out the tripe on to an entree dish ; arrange a border of olive 
potatoes (vol. i.) round the dish, and serve as an entree for dinner or 
luncheon. 

Curried Tripe a lTnd 
Tripe en Karl <1 rind 

Take two pounds of tripe (see General Directions) and cut it in lengths 
of about one inch and fry it in two ounces of butter, cover with good 
stock, and cook for about two hours. Fry in another pan six peeled 
and finely-sliced onions, three sour apples, and four mushrooms, in two 
ounces of butter till a good golden colour, add a bunch of herbs to it 
(such as thyme, parsley, bayleaf), a quarter-teaspoonful of ground ginger, 
half a teaspoonful of salt, a pinch of ground cinnamon, half a grated 
cocoanut, the milk of one cocoanut, one ounce of Marshall's Curry 



330 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

Powder, two ounces of Marshall's Creme de Biz, a little white pepper, 
the juice of a lemon, two ounces of good glaze, and one and a half 
pints of good stock ; cook till tender, boil down to a thick consistency, 
tammy it, and add the tripe ; make quite hot again in the bain-marie 
and serve with curry rice (vol. i.) formed as a border, and some on a 
napkin. Garnish the dish here and there with French red chillies that 
are finely shredded, and a sprinkling of saffron and chopped parsley. 

Outlets a la Silesienne 

Cotelettes a la Silesienne 

Prepare half a pint of thick Bechamel sauce (vol. i.), add to it eight 
large tablespoon fuls of Naples macaroni that is cooked and cut in little 
rings, one ounce of cooked ham or tongue cut in little dice shapes, and 
the same amount of truffle and mushroom, and two ounces of grated 
Parmesan cheese; mix all together and put on one side till cold. Divide into 
quantities of about a dessertspoonful in each, rollout with flour, dip them 
into whole beaten-up egg and into freshly-made white breadcrumbs, form 
into cutlet shapes with a palette knife, put them into a frying-basket 
and fry in clean boiling fat till a nice golden colour. Dish up in round 
form, pour a Cheese Cream sauce (see recipe) over it, brown with a red- 
hot salamander, and serve, with Tomato sauce (vol. i.) in the centre, 
for a luncheon, entree, or second-course dish. 

Niokes a la Romaine 

Niokes a la Romaine 

Put into a stewpan one and a half gills of new milk, one ounce of 
good butter, a quarter of an ounce of salt, a dust of coralline pepper, 
and one ounce of grated Parmesan cheese ; bring to the boil, add two 
and a half ounces of sifted fine flour, stir altogether over the fire for 
three or four minutes ; then take up, leave till somewhat cool, and mix 
into it two small or one and a half large whole eggs. Put the mixture 
into some little buttered quenelle tins by means of a forcing bag and 
pipe, smooth the tops evenly with a hot wet knife, and stand the tins in 
a saute pan on a fold of paper, cover over with boiling milk and water 
that is seasoned with a little salt ; stand the pan on the stove, watch the 
water reboil, then draw the pan to the side of the stove and poach for 
about fifteen minutes. Then take up on a sieve, place some on a well- 
buttered entree dish in which is a gill of thick cream, cover all over with 
the prepared sauce, then arrange over this another layer of the Niokes, 



OF EXTRA RECIPES BREAKFAST DISHES, ETC. 331 

and continue thus until the dish is full, using for the last layer of 
the sauce a forcing bag with a large rose pipe ; clean the edge of the 
dish, sprinkle here and there a few browned breadcrumbs, stand the 
dish in a deep tin containing some boiling water and put it to cook in 
a quick oven for twenty-five minutes, when it should be a nice golden 
colour, and serve at once for luncheon or second-course dish. 

Sauce for Niokes a la Romaine. Put into a stewpan four raw 
yolks of egg, a good pinch of salt, and a dust of coralline pepper, 
three ounces of butter, four ounces of fine flour sifted, stir on to it 
one and a half pints of single cream or milk and three ounces of grated 
Parmesan cheese ; stir on the fire till boiling, then tammy, and use. 



Breakfast Cutlets 
( '6telette8 d la Dejeuner 

Put half a pint of milk into a stewpan to boil with a blade of mace 
and one eschalot, then mix it on to two ounces of fine flour and two 
ounces of butter that have been fried together without discolouring ; 
stir this on the fire till it boils, season with a little salt and a tiny dust 
of cayenne pepper, then add two raw yolks of eggs to thicken, and stir 
again over the fire, taking care it does not boil ; tammy, and mix with it 
about three ounces of cooked chicken (or a similar quantity of any kind 
of game or poultry) cut in small thin slices about the size of a three- 
penny piece, one tablespoonful of cooked tongue or ham, one or two 
sliced truffles if you have them, and two or three button mushrooms. 
Leave the mixture till cold, then roll into balls about the size of a 
pheasant's egg with a little flour; dip these into freshly-made white 
breadcrumbs, form them into cutlet shapes with the hand and a palette 
knife, and fry them to a pretty golden colour in clean boiling fat ; dish 
on a fried crouton of bread or on a potato border (vol. i.j, and serve any 
nice vegetable in the centre and Tomato sauce (vol. i.) round the base. 
Serve hot for an entree for luncheon or breakfast, and for the latter they 
may be served plainly on a dish-paper or napkin. 

Little Brioches a la Vienne 
Petites Brioches d la Vienne 

Take, for ten to twelve persons, half a pound of Brioche paste (see 
vol. i. page 332), roll it up into balls about the size of a small chicken's 
egg, using a little flour for the purpose ; then put them on a lightly- 
greased baking-tin, and brush each over with raw beaten-up whole eggs 



332 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

to which has bee^n added a little cold milk ; put them into a moderate 
oven, bake till a nice brown colour, which will take from twenty-five to 
thirty minutes, then remove the brioches from the tin and put them on 
a pastry-rack till cold. Take a small pointed knife and carefully cut 
open each brioche at the side about half-way, fill up the bottom side 
with a puree of meat as below, fill in the top side with a salad of lettuce, 
close up the brioches again into their original form, and serve in a pile 
on a dish on a paper or napkin. The gilt papers, either gold or silver, 
are very effective in this service. Serve for ball suppers, race luncheons, 
or shooting parties. 

Puree of Meat for Little Brioches a la Vienne. Take half a 
pound of white meat, chicken or pheasant, freed from bone and skin, 
pound till smooth with two tablespoonfuls of thick cream, a pinch 
of salt, one ounce of butter, two tablespoonfuls of thick Bechamel sauce 
(vol. i.) ; then rub through a fine sieve, and use. 



OF EXTRA RECIPES REMOVES AND ROASTS 333 



CHAPTER VIII 
REMOVES AND ROASTS 

Boiled Chicken Champagne Sauce 
Poulet Bouilli Sauce Ohd^npagne 

Take a chicken trussed for boiling ; rub it over with lemon juice ; 
place a piece of slitted fat bacon on the breast, tie it on ; wrap the 
chicken in a well-buttered cloth ; put it into a stewpan with sufficient 
boiling water to cover, with three or four sliced onions, a bunch of herbs, 
about twelve black and white peppercorns, and enough salt to season it ; 
bring to the boil, and simmer for forty to sixty minutes, according to the 
size of the fowl. Then take up, remove the string and paper, place on a 
flat dish (leaving on the bacon, if liked), pour over it a good Mushroom 
sauce (see recipe). Serve the chicken for dinner or luncheon while 
quite hot. 

Boiled Chicken a la Napolitaine 
I 'unlet Bouilli a la Napolitaine 

Cleanse and truss the chicken for boiling ; rub it over with a piece 
of lemon, tie a piece of fat slitted raw bacon on the breast, and wrap it 
in a buttered paper ; place it in a saucepan with one or two sliced onions, 
a little celery, carrot, and a few peppercorns, two cloves, a little salt, and 
a bunch of herbs ; cover with boiling water ; simmer for about three- 
quarters of an hour or longer, according to size; keep it skimmed. When 
ready to serve, remove the paper and strings from the chicken, pour 
Cheese Cream sauce (see recipe) over, and garnish the chicken with 
Neapolitan garnish (see recipe). The liquor from the chicken can be 
used for the sauce, and the vegetables for the stock-pot, &c. 

Chicken a la Bechamel 

Poularde a la Bechamel 

Take a nice fat fowl, pick, singe, and draw it, and truss it either with 
skewers or strings for boiling ; rub it over well with lemon juice, and 
then place it in a buttered cloth, with two or three slices of fat bacon on 



334 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

the breast ; tie it up in the cloth, and put it into a stewpan, as for 
' Boiled Chicken, Champagne Sauce,' and let it simmer gently on the 
side of the stove for about an hour ; then remove the stewpan from the 
stove, and let the bird remain in the liquor till cold. Take it up, and 
remove the trussing strings or skewers, and mask it over about a quarter 
of an inch thick with white Chaudfroid sauce (vol. i. page 26), and after- 
wards mask it over with a little liquid aspic jelly. Dish up and garnish 
it straight down the breast with little rounds of cooked ox tongue or 
lean ham about one-eighth of an inch thick and one and a half inches in 
diameter, stamped out with a plain round cutter ; mask these over with 
a little aspic jelly that is coloured with a few drops of Marshall's Liquid 




Carmine, using this when it is cooling, and placing the pieces on a baking 
tin or flat dish while masking them, and after the jelly is quite set cut 
the rounds out and arrange them as directed above, overlapping each 
other. Have some finely-chopped aspic jelly, and by means of a forcing 
bag with a small plain pipe, garnish the rounds as shown in the en- 
graving ; have some prawns or crayfish with whole truffles arranged on 
hatelet skewers, and pierce these through the breast and through the 
wings of the bird, garnishing the latter with one of the rounds of tongue 
or ham ; round the poularde place as a border some good-sized prettily 
cut blocks of aspic, and also here and there some chopped aspic between, 
and little sprigs of fresh tarragon and chervil. This forms a nice dish 
for any cold collation. 

Chicken a la Cannes 
Poulet a la Cannes 

Pick, singe, and bone a fowl, as for Galantine (vol. i.), and season 
the inside with pepper and salt; prepare a farce thus: Put eight 
hard-boiled yolks of eggs chopped fine, six ounces of fat and lean raw 
ham, one and a half pounds of fresh pork or veal (that has been pounded 



OF EXTRA RECIPES REMOVES AND ROASTS OOO 

and passed through a coarse wire sieve), two chopped eschalots, a good 
tablespoonful of chopped parsley, a saltspoonful of chopped thyme and 
bay leaf, and two ounces of freshly-made white breadcrumbs into a basin, 
and mix with it two whole raw eggs, then add one dozen raw bearded 
oysters ; stuff the chicken with this farce and fasten it up well to 
prevent the stuffing escaping ; tie it in a well-buttered cloth and put it 
into a stewpan with enough good flavoured boiling stock to cover it ; 
let it simmer from half to three-quarters of an hour (according to the 
size of the fowl), take up and leave till cool, then remove the cloth and 
roll up the fowl in dried pork caul ; fasten it with a needle and cotton, 
leaving a piece of the cotton hanging, so as to draw it away after cooking, 
then dust it well with flour, brush over with whole beaten-up egg, and 
roll it in white breadcrumbs ; place it in a pan with enough clean boiling 
fat to cover it, and fry for eight to ten minutes, when it should be a nice 
golden colour ; dish up on a bed of crisply-fried parsley on a dish paper, 
and serve Veloute sauce (vol. i.) in a sauceboat. This can be served for 
a remove for dinner or luncheon dish, and is also excellent when cold. 

Chickens a la Chanceliere 
Vovla/rdes d I" < 'Vuinceli&re 
Take two good fat poulardes, bone them, free the feet from the top 
skin, and clip the nails off, and press them into the leg where the bone 
has been taken from ; fill the birds with farce (see ' Chicken a la Vien- 
noise '), and truss them for boiling, making them as nice a shape as 
possible ; place a piece of fat bacon on the breast of each, and tie them 




up in a well-buttered cloth. Put into a stewpan the bones from the 
birds, the liquor and beards from the oysters used in the preparation of 
the farce, some vegetables, such as carrots, onions, celery, leek, thyme, 
parsley, and bay leaf, two blades of mace, a little salt, and a teaspoonful of 
peppercorns ; place the poulardes on this, and cover with light stock or 



336 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

water ; put the pan on the stove, just bring the contents to the boil, skim 
it, and let it simmer very slowly for about one and a quarter to one and 
a half hours. Take up, put away till cold, then remove the cloths and 
bacon, and mask one side of each poularde with Tongue puree (see recipe), 
and the other side with Aspic cream (vol. i.). Take some prettily-cut 
shapes of truffle, and ornament the breasts of the birds with them, using 
a little liquid aspic jelly to keep the garnish in its place; then coat over 
the truffle with a little more of the jelly to give it a glazed appearance. 
Place in the centre of the dish on which the poulardes are to be served 
a block of boiled rice (see recipe) and some finely-chopped aspic jelly ; 
arrange the poulardes as shown in the engraving; place a hatelet skewer 
in the centre of the rice, garnish the back and front of the rice block 
with Financi&re garnish, and arrange round the base of the dish some 
tomatoes and little timbals of pate de foie gras, and serve for a ball 
supper or luncheon dish. The stock left from the braising of the pou- 
lardes will make excellent soup. 

Fakce for Chicken A la Chanceliere. Take, for two poulardes, 
four pounds of fresh fat and lean loin of pork, and free it from skin and 
sinews ; also three pounds of fillet of veal, and three dozen bearded sauce 
oysters ; pass these twice through the mincing machine or chop them 
very finely, then mix them in a basin with a half-pint of sherry, salt, and 
white pepper, the strained juice of two lemons, and three whole raw 
eggs ; divide the mixture into portions, and place it on a well-wetted slab 
to about half an inch in depth, and make it quite smooth. Cut some 
very thin slices of French larding bacon, about nine or ten inches square 
and not quite a quarter of an inch thick ; place these on the farce, and 
spread a layer of pate de foie gras all over it, about a quarter of an 
inch thick ; sprinkle over this a little sherry and a little sliced truffle, 
pressing the latter well into the foie gras ; then roll up the farce from 
the end in the form of a jam roll pudding, using a little cold water for 
the purpose, and use for stuffing any boned raw birds. 

Tomatoes for Chickens A la Chanceliere. Take some very tiny 
raw tomatoes ; cut off the tops, and scoop out the seeds ; season them 
with pepper, salt, lemon-juice, and salad oil, and fill them up with Tartare 
sauce (vol. i.), using a bag and pipe for the purpose; keep on ice till 
wanted for use. 

Timbals for Chicken A la Chanceliere. Line some little timbal- 
moulds thinly with aspic jelly, garnish the tops with a little cut truffle, 
fill up with pate de foie gras, setting it with a little aspic jelly, and place 
the moulds aside till set ; then dip into hot water, and turn out. Arrange 
these on the dish as shown in the engraving. 



OF EXTRA RECIPES REMOVES AND ROASTS oo7 

Chicken au Re veil 
Poulards an Reveil 

Take a nice cleansed poularde, truss it for boiling, rub it well with 
lemon juice and sprinkle it with salt, place a strip of fat bacon on the 
breast, and tie the bird up in a piece of buttered muslin, then put it 
into a stewpan with two or three sliced onions, one carrot, one turnip, 
and a strip or two of celery ; cover with light stock or water that is 
seasoned with lemon juice and salt ; bring this to the boil, and simmer 
gently for one hour; then take up the bird, remove the muslin and 



bacon, and dish up the poularde on a puree of potatoes (vol. i.) ; cover 
with Cheese Cream sauce (see recipe), arrange some little tongues, as 
below, around the poularde, as shown in the engraving, and garnish each 
end of the dish with cooked artichoke bottoms and braised onions. Orna- 
ment the top of the bird with two hatelet skewers and serve hot for a 
remove for dinner or luncheon. Turkey or pheasant can be served in 
the same way. 

Tongues for Chicken au Reveil. Butter some little tongue moulds, 
sprinkle them with a little raw chopped parsley, and fill them with the farce 
as below, using a forcing bag and small plain pipe for the purpose ; stand 
the moulds in a tin on a fold of foolscap paper, surround them with 
boiling water to three-parts their depth, watch the water reboil, then 
draw the pan to the side of the stove and let the contents poach for 
fifteen minutes ; then turn out the tongues and use as directed above. 
For the farce take half-a-pound of lean cooked ham or tongue and 
pound it till smooth, then pound six ounces of Panard (vol. i.) with 
one large tablespoonful of thick Bechamel sauce (vol. i.), one ounce of 
butter, a dust of cayenne, a few drops of carmine, and a large table- 
spoonful of sherry ; mix in three raw eggs, rub through a wire sieve, 
and use. 



338 



MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 



Chicken a la Toulouse 

Poulet a la Toulouse 

Take a picked, singed, and cleansed chicken or poularde, well rub it 
with lemon juice, truss it for boiling, place it in a buttered cloth, and 
put it into a saucepan, as for ' Boiled Chicken, Champagne Sauce ' ; 
when cooked, take up, remove the paper and strings, pour a rich 
Veloute sauce (vol. i.) all over it ; garnish with Financiere and sliced 
truffles, slices of tongue, chicken quenelles, prepared as below, and cooked 
button mushrooms. Place some hatelet skewers in the fowl, and serve 
for luncheon, dinner, or as a remove. 

Quenelles for Chicken a la Toulouse. Pound a quarter of a 
pound of raw chicken till smooth ; then pound three ounces of panard 
with half an ounce of butter, a little salt and white pepper, and a dessert- 
spoonful of Bechamel sauce (vol. i.) ; add the latter to the meat with two 
whole raw eggs, and rub through a fine wire sieve ; put into buttered 
quenelle tins that are masked alternately with chopped green parsley and 
chopped cooked ox tongue ; poach for fifteen minutes in boiling water ; 
take up on a cloth, and use. 



Chicken and Little Tongues a la Viennoise 
Poulards et Petites Langues a la Viennoise 

Take a nice white fowl, picked, singed, and boned, with the exception 
of the bottom part of the back and legs and wings, turn the bird inside 
out, season with chopped parsley, salt, and coralline pepper, then turn 
it back into its natural form, and farce it from the neck end with the 




farce prepared as below ; sew up the opening, take off the feet, skin them 
and return to the bird, having trimmed and shortened them at the bone ; 
rub the bird well all over with butter, wrap it in a well-greased paper, 
place it on a baking-tin, and roast it- in front of the fire for forty to fifty 



OF EXTRA. RECIPES REMOVES AND ROASTS oo9 

minutes, according to the size of the fowl ; keep it well basted while 
cooking, and when a nice golden colour, take up and set aside till cold. 
Then mask it over with brown and white Chaudfroid sauce (as in 
engraving), garnish with Aspic cream (vol. i.) that is cut with a fancy 
cutter, and sprigs of chervil and French red chilli, setting the garnish 
with a little more aspic jelly. Dish up on a bed of chopped aspic, 
garnish round with the little prepared tongues, arrange here and there 
some Financiere on hatelet skewers, arrange between these some blocks 
of aspic and any nice vegetables, seasoned with salad oil, tarragon 
vinegar, chopped eschalot, salt and coralline pepper, and serve for a ball 
supper or for any cold collation. 

Farce for CHICKEN a la Viennoise. Pass one pound of veal, 
rabbit, or chicken, and one pound of lean raw pork or bacon through a 
sausage machine, then rub it through a coarse wire sieve and mix in 
a basin with two wineglassfuls of cooking sherry, twelve raw bearded 
sauce oysters cut in dice shapes, a saltspoonful of Marshall's Coralline 
Pepper, one chopped eschalot, two ounces of lean cooked ham or tongue, 
a little salt, two whole raw eggs and a teaspoonful of finely chopped 
parsley. Mix together and use. 

Tongues for Chicken V la Viennoise. Line some little tongue 
moulds with liquid aspic jelly, garnish with tiny sprigs of chervil, set 
with aspic, fill each with the puree prepared as below, leave them in a 
cool place till set, then dip them into warm water, turn out on to a cloth 
and use. For the puree take six ounces of lean cooked ham or tongue, 
one tablespoonful of Tomato sauce (vol. i.), one hard-boiled yolk of 
egg, a dust of coralline pepper and a few drops of carmine ; pound 
together till smooth, then mix with it a quarter-pint of oyster liquor, 
the same quantity of strong well-flavoured stock that has been mixed 
with a quarter-ounce of gelatine and half a wineglassful of sherry : rub 
through a fine hair sieve before setting, then slightly dissolve and mix 
with a tablespoonful of thick cream and use when beginning to set. 

Roast Chicken a la Biarritz 
Poularde Rdtie d la Biarritz 

Pick, singe, and bone a nice poularde, and season it inside with 
pepper and salt, finely-chopped parsley, a very little chopped eschalot, 
and a good sprinkling of finely-chopped lean cooked ham; then prepare 
an Oyster Souffle mixture for farcing (see recipe), and fill up the 
poularde with it ; sew it up with a needle and cotton and truss as for 
roasting, rub all over with warm butter or dripping, put a greased paper 

z 2 



340 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

over, place it in a well-greased baking-tin, and cook in a moderate 
oven for an hour, or if the bird is a large one, for an hour and a quarter, 
keeping well basted while cooking. Take up on a hot dish, remove the 




papers and trussing strings, arrange four hatelet skewers in it as in 
engraving, and serve with Biarritz sauce round the base, and use for 
a remove for dinner or luncheon. Always serve while quite hot. 

Chicken a la Financiere 
Poularde d la Financiere 

Pick, singe, and truss a poularde, and lard the breast with lardons 
of fat bacon, then trim these evenly with a pair of scissors, place the 
poularde in a stewpan to braise (vol. i. page 180), cover the breast of the 
fowl with a piece of buttered paper ; put a cover on the pan, place it on 
the stove, and allow the contents to fry together for fifteen minutes, then 
add a quarter of a pint of good stock, re-cover the pan, and place it in a 
rather quick oven for about one hour, keeping well basted over the paper 
with the stock and add more stock, as that in the pan reduces. When 
cooked remove the chicken from the pan and put it on a baking-tin, 
brush over with a little warm glaze and return to the oven for about ten 
or twelve minutes to crisp; strain the gravy from the fat, then add the 
gravy to about three-quarters of a pint of good Brown sauce (vol. i.), 
and boil together with two or three fresh mushrooms, keeping skimmed 
while boiling ; when reduced about one-fourth part, pass through the 
tammy cloth ; reboil, pour round the chicken and garnish with Financiere 
garnish that has been heated in the bain-marie and arranged on hatelet 
skewers and serve for a remove. The Financiere is kept ready for use in 
bottles. 

Chicken a la Savoy 
Poularde d la Savoy 

Pick, cleanse and singe a nice fat white poularde, and truss it for 
braising ; lard the breast with fat bacon, and place the bird in a well- 
buttered stewpan and braise with vegetables, &c, as for ' Chicken with 



OF EXTRA RECIPES REMOVES AND ROASTS 341 

Nouilles ' ; cover the bird with a well-buttered paper, place the lid on the 
pan and fry for about twenty-five minutes, then add half a pint of 
champagne and the same of sherry, boil up and cook in a quick oven for 
about fifty minutes, occasionally basting the poularde over the paper and 
adding more of the wine as that in the pan reduces ; then take up the 
bird and brush it over with warm glaze ; strain off the liquor and add 
to it one ounce of glaze, the contents of a tin or large bottle of truffles, 
the juice of two lemons, a pinch of castor sugar, a dust of cayenne and 
a pint of reduced Espagnol sauce (vol. i.) ; boil this up, then put the 
fowl in the pan, keep the gravy skimmed and let the contents boil for 
about fifteen minutes, then take up the bird, remove the strings, pour 
the sauce all over it, and garnish with large slices of goose liver (foie 
gras naturel) and hatelet skewers. The poularde can be boned if liked 
and filled with truffles and whole liver before braising. The preserved 
liver only requires to be heated before using, and this is done by placing 
the tin containing it in the bain-marie after it lias been opened. Fresh 
truffles would be best if in season. 

Braised Chicken and Nouilles 
Poulwrde Brai&Ge a/uso Nouilles 

Have the poularde trussed for braising, then lard it with lardons of 
fat bacon, trim the lardons evenly, and put the poularde into a stewpan 
to braise (vol. i. page 180) ; then add a quarter of a pint of good stock, 
and put the pan on the side of the stove or in the oven and cook gently 
for one hour, during which time add more stock frequently. Then take 
up the fowl from the pan, brush it over with a little warm glaze, and 
put it in the oven to crisp and brown ; then strain the fat from the 
gravy and pour round the dish on which the chicken is to be served ; 
dish up on a pile of Nouilles (vol. i. page 40), pour some Cheese puree over 
(see recipe), then crisp quickly with the red-hot salamander and serve for 
dinner or luncheon. Pheasants and other birds are excellent prepared 
in a similar way. The vegetables from the braise can be used up in the 
stock-pot. 

Chicken Farced with Ox Tongue 
Poularde Farcie cm Langue de Boeuf 

Take a picked, singed and cleansed poularde, and split it down the 
back ; remove all the bone from it, leaving the feet on ; season it inside 
with white pepper and salt, and then spread over this a layer of farce 
(see ' Chicken a la Viennoise') about two inches thick; smooth this over 



342 .MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

with a wet palette-knife, then place a cooked ox tongue (that has been 
skinned and trimmed) on the farce, and close up the poularde into its 
natural form ; sew it up with a needle and cotton, then truss it as for 
braising. Rub it well over with lemon juice, put it into a well-buttered 
cloth, and place it into a stewpan with boiling light stock or boiling 
water, to which has been added a good plateful of cleansed vegetables, 
such as carrots, onions, leeks, celery, turnips, and herbs (basil, thyme, 
marjoram, bayleaf, and parsley), a teaspoonful of peppercorns, a blade 
or two of mace, and four or five cloves ; watch the stock reboil, then 
draw the pan to the side of the stove, put the cover on, and let the 
contents simmer gently for about one and a half hours, then put it aside 
and let it remain till cold. Remove the cloth and strings from the 
poularde and mask over with white Chaudfroid sauce (vol. i.), then mask 
it over with liquid aspic jelly, using these mixtures when just thicken- 
ing ; dish up the poularde, garnish round with little cut blocks of aspic 
and any nicely-cooked vegetables, such as macedoine, which has been 
mixed with a little salad oil and tarragon vinegar, and serve for a ball 
supper or cold collation. The stock in which the poularde was cooked 
may be used for a thick white soup, or it may be clarified for clear soup 
if liked. 

Duck a la Provencale 
GcmeUm d la. ProvengcUe 

Take a picked, singed and boned duck, turn it inside out, and season 
it with salt, Marshall's Coralline Pepper, lemon juice, finely -chopped 
eschalot, chopped Spanish olive, chopped parsley, thyme, bayleaf, and 
lean cooked tongue or ham. Prepare a farce as below, and fill up the 
inside of the duck ; then roll it up in the form of a galantine, tie on it 




a piece of fat raw bacon, slitted here and there, and tie it up in a strong 
cloth so as to keep the shape as nice as possible. Put in a stewpan two 
or three sliced onions, a few slices of carrot, turnip, celery, fresh mush- 
room, a good bunch of herbs, one pint of cooking white wine, the juice 
of two lemons, a teaspoonful of black and white peppercorns, six or 
eight cloves, two blades of mace, a Tew bacon bones, and enough good 



'of extra recipes removes and roasts 343 

light stock to cover ; simmer gently for about an hour, then take up 
and retie the bird, and leave it in press in the stock till cold ; then take 
up, remove the cloth &c, and mask over with brown Chaudfroid (vol. i.) ; 
garnish with hard-boiled white of egg, French chillies and gherkins ; 
set this garnish with a little more aspic jelly, then dish up the bird, 
garnishing with blocks of Aspic cream (vol. i.), and aspic jelly, and 
Spanish olives ; serve for dinner or luncheon with iced Orange sauce 
(see Sauces) in a boat. 

Farce for Duck a la Provencale. Take half a pound of cooked 
chicken, half a pound of cooked pheasant or other game, and pound 
both together with six ounces of cooked tongue or ham and four hard- 
boiled yolks of egg; rub through a wire sieve, then add a wineglassful 
of sherry, mix with six ounces of freshly-made white breadcrumbs, a 
good pinch of salt and coralline pepper, two finely-chopped eschalots, a 
tablespoonful of chopped truffle, the same of tongue, and three whole raw 
eggs ; mix well together, then use. 

Cold Turkey a la Grande Duchesse 

DiiidoniH'tiii Fmid <1 In lirnndc Duche8S6 

Pick, singe, and cleanse the turkey, and draw the sinews from the 
legs ; cut off its head, and open it at the back of the neck and remove 
the backbone and breastbone as far as the leg joint, removing the 
entrails with the carcase ; then stuff it (see Farces), sew it up, and truss 
it for boiling. The feet should be just dipped in boiling water, and then 
the outer skin removed, the sinews cut off, and the toes cut short, and 
the lower part of the leg with the foot replaced ; tie the turkey up in a 




well-buttered cloth, and put it to boil for one and a half to two hours, 
according to size of the bird, in good stock with vegetables, such as 
carrot, onion, celery, and herbs (basil, marjoram, bayleaf, thyme and 
parsley), a few black and white peppercorns, six or eight cloves, and 
a blade or two of mace ; let the stock come to the boil, then draw the 
pan to the side of the stove and let it simmer gently till cooked. Take 
up the turkey, remove the cloth, and let it get cold ; it is best to boil 



344 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

the turkey the day before it is to be dished up. When cold remove the 
strings, and mask the bird over with white Chaudfroid sauce (vol. i.), 
putting on two or three coatings of the sauce until it is well masked ; 
when the sauce is somewhat set lightly mask that over with aspic jelly 
which is not quite set, so as to give the surface a polish, and at once 
sprinkle over it some finely- shredded blanched pistachio nuts ; when the 
aspic is set dish up the turkey and garnish it round with ornamentally 
cut pieces of aspic ; take three hatelet skewers, and on them place some 
of the prepared crayfish or cooked prawns, and truffle, or Financiere 
garnish, and pate de foie gras, and arrange them on the breast of the 
turkey, as in the engraving, also garnish the breast with cockscombs 
or Financiere garnish and truffles. This dish can be served for any cold 
collation, ball supper, &c, and forms an important dish. Poularde 
may be prepared in a similar manner. 

Farced Turkey 

Dindonneau Fan- 1 

Pick and singe a young fat turkey and . bone it as for a galantine, 
then fill it with farce (see recipes, Farces), and truss it into a nice form ; 
rub it all over with lemon juice, place a few slices of fat slitted bacon on 
the breast, and tie it up in a well-buttered cloth ; put it into a stewpan 
in boiling water or light stock, to which add a good plateful of raw 
cleansed vegetables, such as carrots, leeks, celery, onions, and herbs, 
also a few peppercorns and a blade or two of mace ; watch the liquor 
reboil, then place the cover on the pan and let the contents simmer very 
gently for two and a half to three hours. When cooked, take up and 
put the turkey aside until the next day, then remove the cloth and 
trussing strings, &c, and mask the turkey about a quarter of an inch 
thick with Bechamel Chaudfroid sauce (see recipe), and when this is set 
mask it all over with liquid aspic jelly, which should be used when 
somewhat cool ; dish up, and garnish with aspic jelly and macedoine of 
vegetables, or with button mushrooms or Financiere, and serve for a ball- 
supper or luncheon dish. The above would be sufficient for twenty 
persons. 

Turkey a la Spezzia 
Dindonneau d la Spezzia 

Pick, singe, and cleanse a nice fat young turkey, bone it and truss 
it as for braising, placing the feet in the legs, as shown in the engraving. 
Take two pounds of raw fat and lean ham, pound it or pass it twice through 
a sausage machine, and rub it through a coarse wire sieve ; mix with 



OF EXTRA RECIPES REMOVES AND ROASTS 345 

it six or eight large truffles, the contents of a tin of button mushrooms, 
two finely-chopped eschalots, one pound of chestnut crumbs, four whole 
raw eggs, and a pinch of Marshall's Coralline Pepper ; mix well all to- 
gether and put it inside the turkey ; sew up the bird, place it in a stew- 
pan with one ounce of glaze, a pint of cooking champagne, and a large 
bunch of herbs ; place the cover on the pan, and let the contents simmer 
very gently on the side of the stove for one and a half to two hours, 
keeping the bird well basted while cooking (so that the skin does not 
break), and adding the liquor from the tin of mushrooms. When cooked 




put the bird aside till cold, then mask it over with Brown Chaudfroid 
(vol. i.), garnish the breast as in engraving, with little diamond-cut 
shapes of truffle, French red chillies, and hard-boiled white of egg, 
setting the garnish with a little liquid aspic jelly. Dish up the turkey, 
and garnish round it with Curried Mushrooms (see recipe) and little 
tongues prepared as below. Arrange hei-e and there on the dish some 
finely-chopped aspic jelly, and serve for a ball supper or for any cold 
collation. The bones and trimmings from the turkey can be used up 
in the braising and afterwards put into the stock-pot. 

Tongues for Turkey a la Spezzia. Take some little tongue- 
moulds, line them thinly with aspic jelly, then with Aspic cream (vol. i.), 
and let this set ; then fill them with a cooked macedoine of vegetables, 
setting this with a little liquid aspic, then when the whole is set, dip the 
moulds into hot water, turn them out on a cloth, and use as directed. 

Braised Turkey with Chestnut Puree Mousseline 
Oyster Sauce 

Dindonneau Braise an Vuree de Marrons Sauce d'Huttres mousseline 

Pick, singe, and cleanse a nice turkey, and stuff it with herb farce, 
truss it for braising, and lard the breast of the bird in two or three rows 
each side with lardons of fat bacon. Put in a large stewpan two 



346 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

ounces of butter, a large bunch of herbs (bayleaf, thyme, parsley, basil, 
and marjoram), a teaspoonful of black and white peppercorns, eight or 
ten cloves, two blades of mace, two cleansed sliced carrots, one turnip, 
four or five onions, three or four strips of celery, and one cleansed leek ; 
place the turkey on these, cover it over with a buttered paper, put the 
cover on the pan, and fry the contents for about half an hour, during which 
time shake the pan occasionally to prevent the vegetables burning, then 
add to it about half a pint of boiling stock ; replace the lid, put the pan 
on a moderate fire or in the oven and braise for two to two and a half 
hours, during which time add a little more stock as that in the pan 
reduces ; when cooked take up the turkey with a fork, remove the truss- 
ing-strings, put the bird on a baking-tin, and brush it all over with a 
little thin warm glaze, and put it again into a hot oven for about fifteen 
minutes, when it should be a nice brown colour and crisp. Arrange on 
a hot dish, garnish with watercress salad (vol. i. page 31), and serve with 
it a puree of chestnuts (vol. i.). Have Oyster Mousseline sauce (see 
recipe) handed in a sauceboat, and pour the gravy from the braise, 
that has been freed from fat and strained, on the dish, and serve at once. 
Hatelet skewers may be used for garnishing the bird if wished. Serve 
for a remove for dinner party or luncheon while quite hot. 

Turkey a la he vet 
Dindonneau a la Chevet 

Pick, cleanse, and singe a nice young turkey, and bone the breast, 
then stuff it with celery stuffing (see recipe), and truss it as for roasting ; 
rub it well over with clean dripping, tie some slices of fat raw bacon on 
the breast and roast the bird for one to one and a half hours, according 
to the size, when it should be quite crisp and of a deep brown colour all 
over. Baste it frequently during the cooking. When done, dish up, 
remove the trussing-strings, and serve with buttered rice (see recipe) 
separately on a hot dish, and with Chevet sauce in a sauce-boat. Serve 
for dinner or luncheon while quite hot. The giblets from the turkey 
will make good stock for soup. 

Roast Pheasant a la Connaught 
Faisan Roti d la Connaught 

Pick and cleanse two pheasants, then stuff them with a mixture 
prepared as follows : Chop up fine or jaass through a mincing machine 
two pounds of streaky part of salt pork, and mix with it one pound of 



OF EXTRA RECIPES REMOVES AND ROASTS 347 

freshly-made browned breadcrumbs, one pound of fresh mushrooms that 
have been washed, the water pressed from them and then chopped up 
fine, two minced eschalots, a tablespoonful of finely-chopped parsley, 
two chopped bayleaves, and three chopped sprigs of thyme, season with 
a pinch of black pepper, salt, and a tiny pinch of ground cinnamon ; 
mix up all together with one whole raw egg and two yolks of eggs and 
put into the pheasants ; truss the birds for roasting, place a piece of 
slitted fat bacon on the breasts, rub over with good dripping, and roast or 
bake for about three-quarters of an hour, taking care that it is kept well 
basted while cooking. Take up the birds, remove the trussing-strings 
or skewers, place them on a crouton of fried bread, garnish with bunches 
of watercress that have been picked and seasoned with salad oil, tarragon 
and chilli vinegar. 

Pheasant a la Montansier 
Faisan <'< la Montansier 

Take a nice fat pheasant, remove the breast-bone, and then truss the 
bird as for roasting ; fill it with farce as below, sew it up, and then 
rub it well over with dripping ; tie a strip of fat scored raw bacon on 
the breast, and roast the bird for fifty to sixty minutes before a quick 
fire, or cook it in the oven, taking care to baste the bird well whilst 
cooking. When done take it up, remove the trussing-strings or skewers, 
and place the bird on a hot dish, garnish it with hatelet skewers and 
watercress salad (vol. i.), and serve with Montansier sauce in a hot sauce- 
boat. Serve for luncheon or dinner as a hot dish. 

Farce for Pheasant a la Montansier. Take three ounces of 
chopped lean cooked ham or tongue, twelve raw bearded sauce oysters 
(cut up into small dice shapes), a dessertspoonful of finely chopped raw 
parsley, two whole raw eggs, half a pound of fresh white bread crumbs, 
a dust of Marshall's Coralline Pepper, a pinch of salt, and two ounces 
of warm butter; mix altogether, then use. 

Roast Pheasant Mushroom Sauce 
Faisan Rati Sauce Champignons 

Pick, cleanse, singe and truss the pheasant for roasting, put a piece 
of slitted fat bacon on the breast, rub it over with warm dripping and 
cook for about twenty-five minutes, keeping basted while cooking. 
When cooked, place the bird on a crouton or on toast on a dish, and 
garnish it with watercress. The slitted bacon may or may not be served 
with the pheasant. Have Mushroom sauce (see recipe) served in a 
sauceboat and send to table quite hot. 



348 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

Braised Pheasant with Cabbage 
Faisan Braise aux Choux 

Cleanse and truss the bird, lard the breast and legs, and put it into 
a well-buttered paper. Put into a well-buttered pan about a pound of 
streaky bacon or salt pork, cut into about twenty-four small pieces, 
place the bird on top and fry till the pieces are a nice golden colour ; 
then add about half a pint of nicely-flavoured game gravy (vol. i. page 7) 
and a bunch of herbs, and place round the pheasant a cabbage cut in 
quarters, as below, and let the whole braise gently for about one and a 
half hours, adding more stock as needed ; take up the pheasant, remove 
the paper and string and glaze it over, place the four pieces of cabbage 
round it, and the fried pieces of bacon between the cabbage ; serve hot 
with a good hot game gravy in a sauceboat, with any gravy from the 
braising freed from fat and added. 

Cabbage Blanched. Trim and wash the cabbage and put it, with 
a pinch of salt, into cold water ; when it comes to the boil strain it, wash 
it in cold water, press the water from it, and diy it in a cloth. 

Pheasants a la Financiere 

Faisans a la Financiere 

Pick, singe and truss one or two pheasants, and lard the breasts with 
lardons of fat bacon, trim these evenly with a pair of scissors, then place 
the pheasants in a stewpan to braise as in vol. i. page 180. When 
cooked, remove the pheasants from the pan and put them on a baking- 
tin, brush them over lightly with a little warm glaze, and return them 
to the oven for about ten or twelve minutes to crisp ; remove the fat 
from the gravy, then add the latter to about three-quarters of a pint of 
good Brown sauce (vol. i.), and boil together with two or three fresh 
mushrooms, keeping skimmed while boiling ; when reduced about one- 
fourth part, pass through the tammy cloth ; reboil, pour round the 
pheasants and garnish with Financiere garnish that has been heated in 
the bain-marie and arranged on hatelet skewers. The Financiere is 
kept ready for use in bottles. 

Pheasant in the Pan 

Faisan en Cocote 

Pick, singe, and cut up the pheasant into neat joints ; season them 
with a little salt and coralline pepper, and dust over with arrowroot 



OF EXTRA RECEDES REMOVES AND ROASTS 349 

that has been rubbed through a sieve. Put about one quart of good- 
flavoured game gravy (vol.i. page 7) in a stewpan with three fresh escha- 
lots chopped fine, three or four bayleaves, a good sprig of thyme, ten 
or twelve peppercorns, four or five fresh mushrooms, one ounce of glaze, 
and a quarter-pint of sherry ; boil together for about twenty minutes, 
then strain on to the bird which has been placed in a saute pan and 
bring to the boil ; then take a fireproof jar, arrange the joints in it, 




pour the sauce over, which should be as thick as very thin cream, and if 
not the desired consistency a little more arrowroot may be added that 
is first mixed with a little stock, and rebelled with the liquor. Cover 
1 lie jar down, stand it in some vessel containing boiling water, and put 
it in the oven to cook for forty to fifty minutes, then take up and 
place it on a dish and serve either hot or cold. This dish can be used 
for an entree or second-course dish, or for luncheon, and it also forms 
an excellent breakfast or supper dish when cold. 

Larded Capercailzie C our te Sauce 
Capercailzie Pique" Sauce Cowrie 

Pick, singe, draw, and truss the capercailzie, and lard the breast 
with lardons of fat bacon ; brush it all over with warm butter or clean 
warm dripping, and roast for twenty-five to thirty minutes according to 
the size of the bird, keeping it well basted while cooking; take up, 
remove the trussing-strings, and place on a fried crouton of bread. 
Serve with watercress salad (vol. i.) and Courte sauce in a sauce- 
boat. 

Roast Partridges-^Egg Sauce 
Perdrix Rotis Sauce CEufs 

Pick, singe, and cleanse the partridges, and truss them for roasting 
place a square piece of fat slitted bacon on the breast of each bird, and 
rub them with clean dripping, roast them for twenty minutes beforea 
brisk fire, keeping them well basted while cooking, then take up and 



350 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

remove the trussing-strings, and dish up each bird on a crouton of fried 
bread ; garnish the dish with watercress that has been picked, washed, 
and dried, and then seasoned with a little salad oil, tarragon vinegar, 
and salt, and serve with Egg sauce in a sauce-boat to be handed. 



Partridges a l'Andalouse 
Perdrix d VAndalouse 

Pick and singe some partridges, and bone them as for a galantine ; 
fill them with pork sausage-meat, and fasten each up to keep in the 
farce ; truss the birds as for braising, place them in a stewpan with a 
few slices of carrot, turnip, celery, and onions, a bunch of herbs, thyme, 
parsley, bayleaf, a few peppercorns, and two or three cloves ; rub one 
ounce of butter over the bottom of a stewpan, place a buttered paper 
over the birds, and cover the pan down ; fry the contents for about 
fifteen minutes ; then add a wineglassful of white wine and half a pint 
of ordinary stock, and braise for three-quarters of an hour, keeping the 
birds well basted while cooking, and occasionally adding a little more 
stock as that in the pan reduces ; when cooked, take up, strain, and 
remove the fat, and add to the liquor half a pint of Brown sauce (vol. i.) 
and boil up together. Arrange a puree of potatoes straight down a flat 
dish, remove the trussing-strings from the birds, brush them over with 
warm glaze, and then dish them on the puree ; garnish the side of the 
potato with halves of cooked artichoke bottoms that have been placed in 
the tin in a bain-marie until hot, and slices of cooked tomatoes, arranging 
these alternately ; pour the sauce round the base of the dish, and serve 
as a second-course dish, or for a remove, or for luncheon. 

Pheasant, chicken, &c, are nice prepared in the same way. 



Partridges a la Wellington 
Perdrix d la Wellington 

Take two or three nice young partridges, pick, singe, and truss them 
as for braising ; lard the breasts with fat and lean raw bacon or ham, 
allowing three or four rows of larding to each bird ; trim the bacon 
evenly, place the birds in a well-buttered stewpan, with a pint of small 
button onions, a bunch of herbs, and the contents of a tin of button 
mushrooms that have been strained from their liquor, and one or two 
lettuces (vol. i. page 257) or endive ; place a buttered paper over the 
breasts of each bird, put the cover on^the pan, and fry the contents over 



OF EXTRA RECIPES REMOVES AND ROASTS 351 

the fire for about fifteen minutes ; then sprinkle some finely-sifted flour 
over the birds, add a teaspoonful of Bovril and a small bottle of cooking 
champagne ; bring this to the boil, place the stewpan, with the lid 
partly raised, in a rather quick oven ; keep the birds well basted while 
braising, and let them remain in the oven for about one hour ; then take 




up the partridges, remove the trussing-strings, brush the birds over 
with warm glaze, arrange them on the dish as shown in the engraving, 
on a puree of potato, place the onions, lettuce, and mushroom round 
them, garnish here and there with a few capsicums, and serve with 
Wellington sauce round for a remove for luncheon or dinner. Always 
serve very hot. 

Pigeons a la Parisienne 
Pigeons d la Parisienne 

Truss three pigeons for braising, and lard the breasts ; put into a 
stewpan a tablespoonful of salad oil or clarified butter, one large Spanish 
onion cut in thin slices, a bunch of herbs, three or four peppercorns, 
three or four fresh mushrooms that have been washed and dried, and 
place the pigeons on the top ; put a buttered paper over the birds, cover 
the stewpan, and fry for fifteen to twenty minutes ; then add the juice 
of a lemon, two green capsicums, a large tablespoonful of Marshall's 
Crenie de Riz, and one and a half pints of good brown stock, and 
simmer veiy gently for three-quarters of an hour, occasionally bast- 
ing the birds with a little stock and removing any fat from the 
gravy. Take up the pigeons and brush them over with a little warm 
glaze, and put them in the oven to crisp or brown them with the 
salamander ; the lardons should be perfectly crisp when the birds are 
served. Rub the vegetables and stock in which the birds were cooked 
through the tammy ; then reboil it, dish the birds on fried croutons cut 
to the size of the bird, pour the sauce round the dish, garnish alternately 
with nice pieces of plainly boiled cauliflower and sliced tomatoes, sprinkle 
a few capers over, and serve half a bird for each person for luncheon or 
as a remove for dinner. They will also do nicely for second course. 
Any game or poultry can be similarly dressed. 



352 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

Pigeons Farced with Truffles Port Wine Sauce 
I'll/eons Farces aux Truffes Sauce Vin de Porto 

Take two picked, singed, and cleansed Bordeaux pigeons and remove 
the breast-bones. Farce the birds with the farce prepared as below, and 
truss them as for braising, arrange a piece of slitted fat raw bacon on the 
breasts, put them into a stewpan with an ounce of butter, a sliced raw 
carrot, one or two onions sliced, and a few slices of celery and turnip ; 
cover over with a buttered paper, place the lid on the pan and fry the con- 
tents over a moderate fire for about twenty minutes, then add a quarter- 
pint of sherry and a quarter-pint of good Brown sauce (vol. i.), watch the 
contents reboil, then place the pan in a quick oven for an hour, keeping 
it well basted, and adding more stock as that in the pan reduces. When 
cooked take up the birds, remove the trussing-strings, brush them over 
with warm glaze, then place them on a baking tin, return to the oven and 
let the birds get a nice brown colour and the skin crisp. Dish up on a 
hot flat dish, pour over and round them some Port Wine sauce (vol. i.) 
and serve for remove, for dinner or luncheon. 

Farce for Pigeons Farced with Truffles. Take half a pound of 
raw rabbit, a quarter of a pound of fat and lean loin of fresh pork, both 
weighed after being pounded and passed through a coarse wire sieve, 
mix with two raw yolks of eggs, a dust of Marshall's Coralline Pepper 
and a little salt, two ounces of pate de foie gras, two ounces of fresh white 
breadcrumbs, half a wineglassful of sherry, mix well together, add a 
dozen large sliced truffles and use. 

Grouse a la Napier 

Goq de Br ay ere a la Napier 

Pick, singe, and draw a nice young grouse, and split it straight 
down the back, brush it over inside and out with warm butter, and season 
the inside with salt, a little coralline pepper, finely-chopped eschalot, and 
parsley and bayleaf ; pass a skewer through the bottom part of the wing 
and through the thick part of the leg, to keep the bird in good form ; 
then place it in front of the fire in a hanging grill-iron, and grill for 
about fifteen minutes, keeping it basted while cooking, and turning the 
grill occasionally ; when cooked take up, sprinkle the top part with 
finely-chopped lean ham, and then dish up on a puree of fresh mush- 
rooms (vol. i.). Serve for a second-course or luncheon dish, or for 
breakfast. Partridge and pheasant prepared in the same way are 
excellent. 



OF EXTRA RECIPES REMOVES AND ROASTS 353 

Woodcock a la Mollard 
Becasses d la Mollcurd 

Take some picked and singed woodcocks, and bone them with the 
exception of the bottom joint of the leg. Prepare a farce thus: Take 
for six birds three truffles (fresh if possible) that have been cleaned, 
chop them up fine, also the trail of the woodcocks, two peeled and 
chopped eschalots, three or four fresh mushrooms that have been well 
washed and dried and chopped, two ounces of fat and lean bacon, a 
pinch of mignonette pepper, and three ounces of browned breadcrumbs ; 
mix these all together, and put into a stewpan with two tablespoonfuls of 
sherry ; just allow the mixture to boil, stirring all the time ; then add a 
teaspoonful of finely-chopped parsley, one finely-chopped bayleaf and 
a tablespoonful of blanched beef marrow cut up in tiny dice shapes. 
Mix all together and fill up the woodcocks with it, brush over with warm 
butter, and wrap each bird separately in a little piece of fresh pork caul, 
then place each on a slice of toast, brush over again with warm butter, 
sprinkle with a few browned breadcrumbs, and put into a quick oven ; 
cook for ten to twelve minutes, then dish up, garnish round with a salad 
of cress or endive, and serve for a second-course dish, or for breakfast or 
luncheon. Any small birds can be prepared in a similar way. 



Quails a la Mecklenburg 
Catties & In Mecklenburg 

Take boned quails for this dish, leaving the feet on, and stuff them 
with farce prepared as below, and inside the farce place a truffle ; truss 
them up into the natural form as for roasting, then place them in 
a stewpan with half a pint of champagne, and the essence from a 
bottle of truffles ; place a little piece of fat slitted bacon on the breast of 
each and cover the pan dow^i, and let the quails cook for about fifteen to 
twenty minutes, standing the stewpan in a moderate oven with the lid 
of the pan raised. When cooked, take up, and split in halves, lightly 
glaze over with warm glaze, then dish each up on a little crouton of fried 
bread that is cut to hold half a quail, dish up on a hot dish and serve 
with Mecklenburg sauce for an entree for dinner or luncheon, or in the 
second course. 

Farce for Quails A la Mecklenburg. For each bird allow two 
ounces of raw lean j veal, and the same of raw fat and lean fresh pork ; 
pound it till smooth or run it through a mincing machine, and pass it 

A A 



354 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

through a wire sieve, season with salt and a dust of coralline pepper and 
one small whole raw egg. Put the farce into a forcing bag with a plain 
pipe and use as directed. 

Fillets of Hare Larded and Roast Larks 
Filets de Jjicvrc Pique's et Mauviettes llutis 

Remove the back fillets from the hare, free them from the fine skin, 
lard them with lardons of fat bacon, trim the lardons evenly with a pair 
of scissors, steep the fillets in warm butter, put them on a well-buttered 
tin and bake them in a quick oven for about fifteen minutes, keeping 
them well basted while cooking ; then take up, cut them into nice 
scallops somewhat slanting, but keep them in their natural form as 
nearly as possible, brush them over with a little warm glaze, dish up on 
croutons of fried bread, on a hot dish; garnish round with roast 




larks (allowing one to each person) that have been cooked in the same 
manner as the hare, each arranged on a crouton and brushed over with 
a little warm glaze. Garnish the dish with watercress that has been 
picked, well washed and dried, seasoned with tarragon and chilli vinegar, 
a little salad oil, finely-chopped eschalot, a little mignonette pepper, 
and a little salt. Serve with browned breadcrumbs and Courte sauce 
in sauce-boats for second course or luncheon, In serving this dish, one 
fillet of hare and one lark and a portion of the cress should be helped to 
each guest. 

Rabbit a l'Epicurienxie 

Lapin d VEpicarienne 

Take a nice tender rabbit skinned and cleansed, leaving the ears and 
tail on, remove the liver, take the thin skin from the fillets and cut off 
the bottom part of the leg to the first joint, then stuff the rabbit with 
farce as below and truss it ; lard all over the back and legs with finely- 
cut lardons of fat bacon, trim these evenly with a pair of scissors, and 
brush the rabbit over with warm dripping; cover it with a well-greased 



OF EXTRA RECIPES REMOVES AND ROASTS 355 

piece of kitchen paper and put it in a baking-tin and bake, or if liked 
roast it for forty to fifty minutes, keep it well basted with the fat, and 
when done take it up on a flat dish ; remove the trussing strings and 
arrange hatelet skewers in their stead, then place the rabbit on a crouton 




of fried bread on the dish it is to be served, and pour round the sauce 
as below, and at each end garnish with Saratoga potatoes (see recipe) ; 
brush the rabbit over with a little thin warm glaze, and serve at once 
for a remove for dinner or luncheon. 

Farce for Rabbit a l'Epicurienxe. Put the liver of the rabbit 
into a stew-pan with enough cold water to cover, bring to the boil, then 
strain and rub through a fine wire sieve; mix with it two ounces of 
finely-chopped beef suet, a dessertspoonful of finely-chopped parsley, 
one chopped eschalot, a saltspoonful of coralline pepper, two whole 
raw eggs, three ounces of Chestnut crumbs (vol. i. page 34), and one 
tablespoonful of fresh mushrooms chopped fine ; when well mixed 
together, use. 

Sauce for Rabbit A l'Epicurienxe. Put into a stewpaa one 
ounce of butter, two peeled and sliced onions, a saltspoonful of 
Marshall's Coralline Pepper, ditto of salt; fry for fifteen to twenty 
minutes, then mix with one ounce of Marshall's Creme de Riz, a tea- 
spoonful of Liebig Company's Extract of Meat, the strained juice of a 
lemon, two sliced tomatoes, half a pint of water, a bunch of herbs and 
a few drops of carmine ; stir on the fire till the mixture boils, simmer 
for half an hour, remove the herbs and rub the contents of the stewpan 
through a tammy, then use after rewarming in the bain-marie. 

Leg of Mutton a la Bourguignotte 
Qiffot de Mouton <' la Bourguignotte 

Bone the leg of mutton and season it inside with a little coralline 
pepper, salt, chopped parsley, a little eschalot and a small washed and 
chopped mushroom, and truss the leg into a nice shape. Rub over the 
bottom of a stewpan a little butter or clean fat, put in it a sliced carrot, 
one oi- two sliced onions, a bunch of herbs, a little celery, and put the 



356 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

meat on the top of these ; cover the pan and let the leg fry well for 
about twenty minutes, then add half a pint of nice brown gravy and 
half a pint of Tomato sauce (vol. i.), keep the meat well basted "with the 
liquor in the pan, and let it braise steadily for about two and a half to 
three hours according to the size, adding more gravy and Tomato sauce 
as that in the pan reduces. When the mutton is cooked take it up, 
strain the gravy, remove every particle of fat, pour round the dish, and 
serve with Bourguinotte sauce (vol. i.) in a sauce-boat. 

Shoulder of Lamb a la Nabob 
Epwde d'Agmau a la Nahob 

Take a shoulder of lamb, bone it and stuff it with the farce, sew it 
up again into its natural form, and place it in a well-buttered cloth ; 
fasten it up and put it into a stewpan with really good-flavoured stock 
and vegetables, such as onion, carrot and celery and herbs, and boil 
gently for about one and a half to two hours, then take it up and press ; 
then dip it in flour, and brush it all over with whole beaten-up egg, 
then dip it in breadcrumbs and fry in clean boiling fat till a nice 
golden colour. Dish up with bunches of grated cocoanut and curry 
rice (vol. i.) for garnish, and serve with Nabob sauce (see recipe) in a 
boat. Use for luncheon or dinner while quite hot. 

Farce for Shoulder of Lamb a la Nabob. One pound of lean 
veal passed twice through the sausage machine, twelve sauce oysters, 
bearded and chopped, one tablespoonful of chopped parsley, two sprigs 
of thyme, three bayleaves, four fresh mushrooms, washed, chopped, and 
dried, two ounces of warm butter, half a pound of fresh white breadcrumbs, 
two eschalots chopped fine, a small saltspoonful of salt, a little white 
pepper and two whole eggs ; mix up together and use. 

Round of Mutton a la Nesle 
Cannelon de Mouton d la Nesle 

Remove all the skin and unnecessary fat from a nice tender loin of 
mutton ; bone it, and lay it out flat, with the lean side uppermost ; 
season it with salt, coralline pepper, coriander powder, little lemon juice, 
and finely-chopped parsley, thyme, and bayleaf j roll it up into a galan- 
tine form, having the fat outside, and tie it with tape ; put it into a stew- 
pan to braise (vol. i. page 162, Fricandeau) ; place a buttered paper over ; 
put the lid on the pan, and stand it on the stove for twenty minutes to fry 
the contents ; then add to it about halfa pint of good stock ; place the pan 



OF EXTRA RECIPES REMOVES AND ROASTS 



357 



in the oven, and braise the mutton for about one and a half hours, during 
which time keep it basted, and add more stock as that in the pan reduces. 
When cooked, take it up ; remove the tape, and refasten it with hatelet 
skewers ; put it on a baking-tin ; sprinkle it with grated Parmesan cheese ; . 




then mask it all over with Soubise sauce (for masking; meats) ; sprinkle this 
over with browned breadcrumbs, and put it into a quick oven for about 
twenty minutes ; then dish up, and serve with Nesle sauce round. The 
dish and plates for this joint should be kept very hot. It may be served 
for a remove, for dinner, or for a luncheon dish. 

Neck of Mutton a la Clarence 
Carre cle Mouton d J" Clarence 

Trim off all the unnecessary fat and skin from a small neck of 
mutton, skewer it and wrap it up in a well-greased paper, put it to roast 
in a moderate oven for about an hour, during which time keep it well 
basted, and when cooked take it up, remove the paper, and set aside till 
cold ; then mask it with brown and white Chaudfroid sauce (vol. i.), 




and also with a little liquid aspic ; when this is set, place it on a dish, 
and garnish with little timbals as below, that are arranged on cooked 
artichoke bottoms, and on which is placed a slice of raw seasoned tomato, 
allowing one to each person; garnish with chopped aspic and little 
blocks of aspic jelly, and serve for a luncheon or any cold collation, or 
for a remove for dinner. 

Timbal for Neck of Mutton a la Clarence. Line some little 
fluted timbal moulds with aspic jelly, and oruament the top of each 
with hard-boiled white of egg that is cut in any pretty design ; set this 



358 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

with a little more jelly, then fill up the moulds with a cooked macedoine 
of vegetables and aspic jelly, leave till set, then dip into hot water and 
turn out. 

Artichoke Bottoms for Neck of Mutton a la Clarence. Take 
some cooked artichoke bottoms, season them with salad oil, a little 
chopped tarragon and chervil, a few drops of tarragon vinegar and 
chopped eschalot, and use. 

Roast Leg of Lamb Capsicum Sauce 
Qigot cFAgneau E6H Sauce Piment 

Take a leg of lamb, trim it for roasting, place it in a baking tin with 
a greased paper over (or it may be roasted in front of a brisk fire), and 
cook it for one and a half to two hours according to size ; keep the meat 
well basted while cooking, and when it is done it should be a nice golden 
colour. Dish up on a hot dish, place a frill on the knuckle, and serve 
with Capsicum sauce in a sauce-boat as a remove for dinner or luncheon. 



Neck of Lamb with Cucumbers and Artichoke Bottoms 
Oa/rre aAgneau aux Uoneombres e& Foncts tfArtichauts 

Take a neck of lamb, and trim it in the usual way; free it from all 
unnecessary fat and skin, and tie it up : put in a stewpan one ounce- of 
butter, one sliced carrot, one or two onions, a little turnip, celery, a 
bunch of herbs, and six or eight peppercorns, and place the lamb on top 
of these vegetables, with a buttered paper over ; cover the pan down, 
and place it on the stove ; let the contents fry for about fifteen minutes ; 
then add about a quarter of a pint of good-flavoured brown stock, and 




stand the stewpan in the oven, or leave it on the side of the stove ; 
simmer for about one hour, during which time add some more stock as 
that in the pan reduces, and take care that the meat is kept basted well 
during the cooking. When cooked, take up the meat, and put it in a 
baking-tin in the oven, to take a nice brown colour and to crisp. Itave 
the liquor in which the lamb was braised strained and freed, from fat ; 
then rebbil it. Dish up the lamb on a hoi dish, pour the gravy round 



OF EXTRA RECIPES REMOVES AND ROASTS 359 

it, and garnish with cucumbers and artichokes, as below. This joint 
can be served for a luncheon or dinner dish as liked. Laver sauce is 
nice to serve with this. 

Cucumber and Artichokes for Lamb. Peel and remove the seeds 
from one or two fresh cucumbers, and cut them crosswise into three- 
cornered pieces ; put these into a stewpan, with enough cold water to 
cover them, add a little salt, bring to the boil, and cook till tender j 
then strain, and dish up in the centre of some hot cooked artichoke 
bottoms, as shown in the design ; pour over the cucumber a little warm 
butter and lemon juice mixed, sprinkle with chopped parsley, and 
serve. 

Neck of Lamb a la Duclair 
Carre" cFAgneau d la Duclair 

Take a nice neck of lamb, trim it for roasting, removing all the 
unnecessary fat and skin, skewer up the top part to keep the meat in 
good form, rub it over with clean dripping, wrap it in a piece of well- 
greased kitchen paper, and roast it in front of a quick fire for about an 
hour, keeping it well basted while cooking ; when a nice brown colour, 
take up, and set it aside till cold ; then remove the papers and skewers, 
and brush it over with a little liquid aspic jelly, dish it on a flat dish, 
garnish with little timbals prepared as below, and bunches of nice crisp 
salad of lettuce, and serve for a remove for dinner or luncheon, or for 
any cold collation. 

Timisals fob Garnishing Xeck of Lamb a la Duclaib. Thinly 
line some little fluted timbal moulds with liquid aspic jelly that is 
coloured with a little liquid carmine, ornament the top of the moulds 
with some cooked green peas, then nearly fill them up with raw ripe 
tomato that is cut into little dice shapes and seasoned with a little 
finely-chopped tarragon and chervil, pour in some more aspic to fill tip 
the moulds and leave them till set ; then dip each into hot water, and 
turn out the timbals on to a clean cloth ; place each timbal on a slice 
of hard-boiled egg that has been seasoned with a little salad oil, finely- 
chopped eschalot, parsley, salt, and coralline pepper, and use as directed 
above. 

Neck of Larnb a l'Anvers 
Carre" d'Agneau d l'Anvers 

Take a neck of lamb, trim it for roasting, rub it over with dripping, 
wrap a piece of greased paper over it, place it in a baking-tin, and roast 
or bake it for an hour in a moderate oven ; then take it up, brush it 



360 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

over with a little warm glaze, dish it up on a hot flat dish, garnish it 
round with cooked artichoke bottoms that are filled with turned braised 
carrots (vol. i. page 245) ; serve, with brown Mushroom sauce (see recipe), 
for a remove for dinner, or as a luncheon dish, while hot. 

The artichokes are kept ready for use in tins, and can be used when 
fresh ones are not in season, being heated in their own liquor. 

Fillet of Beef with Salsifies 
Filet de Boevf aux Salsifis 

Take a piece of fillet of beef, of about three and a half to four pounds, 
trim off all the unnecessary fat and skin, and lard it in lines with lardons 
of fat bacon, after which trim the lardons with a pair of scissors that 
they may be all the same length ; tie up the fillet with string, to keep 
the meat in nice form. Prepare a braise thus: Put in a stewpan about 
two ounces of butter, one large sliced carrot, two or three sliced onions, 
a few slices of turnip, and marjoram and basil, four or five cloves, one 
blade of mace, about six black peppercorns, celery, herbs, such as thyme, 
bayleaf, parsley. Place the fillet on the top of the vegetables, then put 
a buttered paper over the top, cover the pan down with the lid, and let 
the meat fry with the vegetables for fifteen to twenty minutes ; then add 
one wineglassful of sherry and a quarter of a pint of good brown stock, 
and put the stewpan into a moderately hot oven and let the fillet braise 
for about two and a half hours, during which time keep it well basted 
over the paper, so that none of the pieces of the vegetables get mixed 
up with the lardons, and adding more stock as that in the pan reduces. 
When cooked, take it up on a baking-tin and lightly brush it over with 
warm glaze, put it into a moderate oven and let the lardons crisp for 
about fifteen minutes ; then dish up, and garnish the top with scraped 
horseradish, and place round the base salsifies cooked as follows : Peel 
and cut the salsifies into pieces, and drop them into cold water seasoned 
with salt and lemon juice that they may not change colour ; when ready 
to cook put them into boiling water similarly seasoned, and boil them 
for two hours and a half, then strain them, and mix with the reduced 
liquor from the fillet. Serve with Espagnol sauce in a sauceboat. 

Fillet of Beef a la Jussienne 

Filet de Boeuf a la Jussienne 

Remove all the unnecessary fat from a fillet of beef and lard the 
top with lardons of fat bacon ; trim -these evenly with a pair of scissors, 



OF EXTRA RECIPES REMOVES AND ROASTS 361 

and tie the fillet up with pieces of thin string. Put into a stewpan the 
vegetables, &c, as for ' Fillet of Beef with Salsifies,' cover over with a 
buttered paper, put the lid on the pan and stand it on the stove for 
fifteen to twenty minutes, then add a quarter-pint of sherry and a 
quarter-pint of good stock, and cook in a moderate oven, allowing 
twenty minutes for each pound of meat after the gravy lias boiled; 




during cooking keep it well basted, and add more stock as thai in the 
pan reduces. When cooked put the fillet on a baking-tin. brush it over 
with a little thin warm glaze, return it to the oven for about ten minutes ; 
then remove the strings, put two or three hatelet skewers in the fillet, 
and dish up and garnish with slices of cooked tomatoes (see recipe), 
button mushrooms, small braised button onions, and braised lettuce 
(vol. i. page 257), and serve with sauce prepared as below in a sauceboat. 
Sauce for Fillet of Beef a la Jussienne. Take the gravy from 
the braised fillet, removing all the fat, and put it into a stewpan with 
the pulp of three tomatoes (made by passing them through a sieve), 
one ounce of glaze, half-pint of Brown sauce (vol. i.), and a quarter- 
pint of sherry; boil this down to a quarter-part, tammy, and mix with 
two or three fresh mushrooms that have been washed and chopped 
fine, and a few drops of carmine ; reboil for ten minutes, then tammy, 
and use. 

Fillet of Beef a l'Ostende 
Filet de Boeuf d VOstende 

Trim and lard thickly with lardons of fat bacon a piece of fillet of 
beef, allowing about five pounds to twelve persons ; trim the lardons 
neatly, and tie up the fillet with string across the top in three or four 
places. Butter a stewpan well at the bottom and put in it the vegeta- 
bles, &c, for braise as in ' Fillet of Beef with Salsifies,' put the meat on 
these and fry with a buttered paper over for about fifteen to twenty 
minutes ; then add about a quarter-pint of stock, place the stewpan in 
the oven, and let it remain for two and a half to three hours, adding more 



362 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

stock occasionally as that in the pan reduces, When cooked take up the 
fillet, brush it over with warm glaze, and put on a baking-tin in the 
ovpn to crisp for about fifteen minutes ; then take up and cut it in slices, 
and then re-arrange it in its original shape. It must only be cut when 
about to be served. Dish up on a hot dish, pour the ragout and sauce 
(as below) completely over it, and serve up very hot for a remove for 
dinner or luncheon. 

Kagout and Sauce for Fillet of Beef a l'Ostende. Put one 
pint of Brown sauce (vol. i.) in a stewpan with a teaspoonful of 
Bovril, a dust of coralline pepper, a pinch of castor sugar, one and 
a half wineglassfuls of sherry, and one or two freshly-cut mushrooms 
that have been cut and washed ; boil these together for about twenty 
minutes, keeping well skimmed while boiling, then tammy and add to 
it twenty-five Spanish olives (that have been turned and cooked in stock 
for about three-quarters of an hour), a quarter-pound of the middle 
part of cooked tongue cut in little square pieces, four or five sliced 
truffles, -about a dozen tinned or fresh button mushrooms, and the fresh 
marrow from a marrow-bone that has been put into cold water, just 
scalded and cut in slices about an eighth of an inch thick. The marrow 
must not be added to the sauce until it is quite ready to serve over the 
fillet. 

Fillets of Beef a la Parisienne 
Filets de Bceuf d la Parisienne 

Take a piece of the, sirloin of beef, and cut the undercut into slices 
about one and a half or two inches thick ; bat these out with a cold wet 
chopping-knife, remove all unnecessary skin and fat, and trim each 
piece into nice neat rounds. Put them on a plate, season them with 
salt, pepper, and salad oil, and allow the fillets to lie in this for about 




one hour before cooking; grill or broil at a clear tire for about fifteen 
minutes, basting the fillets occasionally with a little warm butter ; when 
cooked, take up the fillets, brush them over with . a little warm glaze, 
place, the, fillets on a hot dish, . arrange in the centre of each fillet a 
tomato prepared as below, and serve with the sauce round the dish for 
a remove for dinner or luncheon, always serving very hot. 



OF EXTKA RECIPES REMOVES AND ROASTS 363 

Sauce for Fillets of Beef a la Parisienne. Put into a stew- 
pan two wineglassfuls of sherry, a tablespoonful of lemon juice, a pinch 
of castor sugar, a good dust of coralline pepper, two chopped fresh 
mushrooms, one chopped eschalot, one saltspoonful of Liebig Company's 
Extract of Meat, and half a pint of good flavoured Brown sauce (vol. i.) ; 
reduce a quarter-pint, keep skimmed while boiling, tammy, and use, 
after adding some sliced or whole truffles. 

Tomatoes for Fillets of Beef A la Parisienxe. Cut out the 
core from some raw ripe tomatoes, remove the seeds, season the insides 
with coralline pepper and salt, farce them with the prepared farce, using 
a forcing bag and large plain pipe for the purpose, put a stamped-out 
round slice of fat bacon on top of each, place them in a buttered saute 
pan, and cook them in a moderate oven for fifteen to eighteen minutes. 

Farce for Tomatoes for Fillets of Beef a la Parisiexxe. For 
eight or nine small tomatoes take twelve finely-chopped, raw,, bearded 
sauce oysters, one chopped eschalot, a teaspoonful of chopped truffle, two 
ounces of fresh white breadcrumbs, the same of lean chopped: cooked 
ham or tongue, one ounce of warm butter, two raw yolks of egg, a little 
coralline pepper, and the juice of a lemon ; mix with sufficient oyster 
liquor to make a smooth paste, add one ounce of warm butter and use. 

Fillet of Beef a la Touraine 

FUrl de Hi- nf d I" Touraine 

Take a piece of fillet of beef about four to five pounds, trim off all 
the unnecessary fat and skin, and lard it with lardons of fat bacon and 
strips of French gherkin, after which trim the lardons with a pair of 
scissors and tie up the fillet with two or three pieces of string to keep 
it in a nice neat form. Prepare a braise in a stewpan as f< it ' Fillet of 




Beef with Salsifies ' and put the meat on top ; cover over with a well- 
greased paper and fry with the pan covered down for about fifteen 
minutes, then add , about a quarter of a pint of stock and put the pan 
in the oven, keeping the }wc\' well basted while braising, and adding a 
little, more stock as that , in the pap reduces; allow twenty n liuutes for 



364 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

each pound of meat. When cooked take up, remove the paper and 
strings, and brush the meat over with warm glaze, then put it on a 
baking- tin in the oven for about ten minutes to crisp ; dish up and 
arrange with hatelet skewers and scraped horseradish on the top, and 
the garnishes prepared as below, and serve with Champagne sauce 
(vol. i.) in a boat. The vegetables, &c, can be used for the stock-pot. 

Tomatoes foe Fillet of Beef a la Touraine. Peel and slice 
some ripe tomatoes and remove the pips ; put the slices into a buttered 
saute pan, season them with salt and pepper, put a buttered paper over, 
and cook in a moderate oven for ten to fifteen minutes ; then dish up, 
sprinkle with chopped parsley, and use. 

Artichoke Bottoms for Fillet of Beef a la Touraine. Open 
a tin of artichoke bottoms and stand it on the stove until the contents 
become hot, then turn out, drain from the liquid, and fill each bottom 
with a puree of mushrooms (vol. i.), using a forcing bag with a large 
plain pipe ; arrange them at T regular intervals round the dish, and place 
between each some slices of marrow and some slices of tomato. 



Larded Fillet of Beef with. Tomato Puree 
I)' let de Bceuf Pique au Puree de Tomates 

Take three or four pounds of fillet of beef, trim off all the 
unnecessary fat and skin from it, and lard the top part of the fillet with 
fat bacon cut in strips about two inches long ; put three or four lines of 
larding according to the size of the fillet, trim the lardons, and tie up 
the fillet in three or four places. . Then prepare a braise as for ' Fillet of 
Beef with Salsifies,' and fry for about twenty minutes with a buttered 
paper over[; then add about a quarter of a pint of stock, and put in the 
oven to braise for about two hours, keeping it constantly basted over 
the paper, and adding more stock as that in the pan reduces ; then take 
up, remove the strings, brush over with warm glaze, and put in the 
oven for about fifteen minutes to crisp. Then take up on a hot dish, 
brush over again with glaze, and garnish with scraped horseradish and 
the Tomato puree (vol. i.) round the dish. 

Sirloin of Beef a la Pompadour 
Almjau de Bceuf d la Pompadour 

Take a piece of well-hung sirloin of beef, trim it neatly, remove all 
the unnecessary fat, and skin the top side half the depth of the meat, 
then lard the skinned part with lardons of fat bacon in four or five 



OF EXTRA RECIPES REMOVES AND ROASTS 



365 



rows according to the size of the sirloin, tie it up to keep it in a nice 
form, put it into a well-buttered braising pan and braise with vegetables, 
&c, as Fricandeau of Beef (vol. i. page 162). When cooked, take up, 




brush over with a little warm glaze, remove the string and place the 
beet on a hot dish ; garnish round with Turnip Cups (see recipe) 
and bunches of cooked carrots and turnips : pour the sauce round the 
dish, and serve for a remove for dinner or luncheon. 

Sauce for Sirloin of Beef A la Pompadour. Take the gravy 
from the braise, remove all the fat, and mix with the gravy two ounces 
of tomato pulp that has been mixed on to two ounces of butter and 
one and a half ounces of arrowroot ; stir all together till it boils, colour 
with a few drops of carmine, flavour with a wineglassful of sherry and 
a pinch of Marshall's Coralline Pepper. 

Carrots and Turnips for Sirloin of Beef a la Pompadour. 
Take some peeled and cleansed carrots and turnips and cut them out 
with a plain round vegetable scoop ; put them separately into cold water, 
bring to the boil, then strain and rinse them, and braise them in stock 
till tender. 

Stewed Rump Steak 
Boeuf Etuve 

Season two and a half pounds of rump steak with a little salt and 
pepper and put it in a stewpan with about an ounce of butter, place a 
cover on the pan, and let it fry for about twelve minutes ; then sprinkle 
the steak with about one tablespoonful of flour, and well shake the pan 
to prevent the steak clinging to the bottom ; add about a pint of 
water or ordinaiy stock, or, better still, gravy, and a teaspoonful of 
Bovril ; bring to the boil, skim well, add a bunch of herbs, such as 
thyme, parsley, and bayleaf, and about two dozen button onions peeled 
and blanched, and carrots and turnips scooped out with a cutter. The 
steak will require from one and a half to two hours' gentle braising. The 
carrots should be added about an hour and the turnips about half an hour 



366 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

before dishing, as that will be sufficient time for cooking them. The gravy 
should be replenished by more stock or water as it reduces. When the 
steak is cooked, dish it up with the vegetables placed round it in 
bunches ; strain the gravy in which the steak was cooked, remove the fat, 
reboil, and pour it round. See that it is all served hot. 



Beef Pudding with Anchovies 
Pouding de Boeuf <mx Anchois 

Take two pounds of fillet of beef, free it from fat and skin, and cut 
it into square pieces about two inches wide and about a quarter of an 
inch thick ; bat these out with a wetted chopping-knife and place them 
out on the table ; season them on one side with chopped raw parsley, 
bay leaf, thyme, eschalot, pepper and salt, and twelve boned Christiania 
anchovies cut into dice shapes, together with some chopped fresh 
mushroom that has been pressed from the water ; roll up the pieces of 
meat, with the seasoning inside, into cylinder shapes, and arrange them 
in layers in a basin that is lined with suet paste (vol. i. page 39), sprink- 
ling each layer with a little finely-chopped beef suet. When the basin 
is filled to within an inch of the top fill it with good cold gravy 
stock, cover it over with a piece of the paste, pressing the paste well to 
the basin, trim off the edges and tie it over with a clean damp pudding- 
cloth that has been dusted over with a little flour ; put the pudding 
to cook in sufficient boiling water to cover it, and allow it to boil for 
three and a half to four hours ; then take up, remove the cloth, loosen 
the pudding round from the top of the basin, and turn it out on to a 
hot flat dish, sprinkle it over with a little raw chopped parsley, and serve 
for luncheon or for dinner as a remove. 

The basin should be well rubbed over with butter or dripping before 
it is lined with the paste. 

Ox- Tongue a la Xerxes 
Lang us de Boeuf d la Xerxes 

Take a perfectly fresh ox-tongue and put it into a stewpan, cover it 
with cold water, bring to the boil, then rinse well in cold water and dry 
in a clean cloth. Put into another stewpan, sufficiently large to hold 
the tongue, about one and a half ounces of fat raw bacon, two sliced 
onions, a leek, some sliced carrot and turnip, three or four strips of 
cleansed celery, a bunch of herbs (such as basil, marjoram, thyme, parsley, 



OF EXTRA RECIPES REMOVES AND ROASTS 367 

and bayleaf), a blade of mace, two or three fresh washed mushrooms, and 
about eighteen peppercorns ; rub the tongue all over with butter, and 
place it on the top of these vegetables ; add three or four blanched 
Spanish onions, then cover the pan down, place it on the side of the 
stove and let the contents fry steadily for about forty minutes, then add 
half a pint of sherry and a half-pint of good gravy ; re-cover the pan, 
place it in a moderate oven, and let the contents simmer gently for three 
and a half hours, adding, during the cooking, more stock and sherry as 
that in the pan reduces, and keeping the tongue and onions frequently 
basted ; when cooked, take up the tongue, cut off the fat end, and with 
a sharp knife peel off all the outer skin; then brush it over with good 
clear warm glaze. Take up the Spanish onions, press all the juice from 
them and rub them through a sieve, strain the liquor from the braising, 
remove the fat from it, then place it on a hot dish in a standing position ; 
add the onion puree, reboil and serve with the tongue. 



Ox-Tongue a la Destaing 
La/ngue de Boeuf d hi Destaing 

Cut a cold cooked ox-tongue into slices about an eighth of an inch 
thick, remove the skin, place the slices in a saute pan with a wineglassful 
or two of cooking sherry, four finely-chopped fresh mushrooms, one 
eschalot, and a good dust of coralline pepper ; place the pan on the 
stove ami simmer the contents for ten to twelve minutes, covering the 
slices with the prepared sauce as the wine in the pan i-educes. Then take 
them up and dish on a bed of boiled Sparghetti (see recipe) that has been 
sprinkled with Gruyere cheese ; arrange on the dish here and there 
bunches of small button mushrooms and braised button onions (see 
recipe) ; arrange a good layer of Gruyere cheese down the centre of the 
dish, stand the dish in a baking-tin containing boiling water, and put it 
into a quick oven for fifteen minutes. Then take up, place the dish on 
another on a paper or napkin, garnish here and there with prettily cut 
croutons of fried bread (see recipe, ' Chicken a la Rubanee '), and serve 
quite hot for luncheon, second course, or for an entree. 

Sauce for Ox-Tongue a la Destaing. Put into a stewpan half 
a pint of good stock, three raw sliced tomatoes, two chopped eschalots, 
a saltspoonful of coralline pepper, a wineglassful of sherry, the juice of 
one lemon, a few drops of liquid carmine, two ounces of good butter 
that has been mixed with an ounce of Marshall's Creme de Riz ; stir 
together till boiling, add a pinch of salt, reboil, tammy, and use. 



368 



MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 



Slices of Ox-Tongue a la Nazaire 
Tranches de Lanr/ue de Bceuf la Nazaire 

Take a slightly pickled ox-tongue, put it into a stewpan with four 
peeled onions, a stick of celery, herbs, such as thyme, bay leaf, parsley, 
basil, marjoram, mace, peppercorns, and cloves, cover with light stock 
and simmer it on the stove for four hours ; then take up, remove the 
skin, brush over with warm glaze, sprinkle over it a little grated 
Parmesan cheese, put it on a baking-tin, pour over it two wineglassfuls 
of sherry, and cook it in a quick oven for fifteen minutes, keeping it well 
basted while cooking. Then take up, cut it into nice slices not quite a 
quarter-inch thick, arrange them on a flat dish, pour over them some 
thick Champagne sauce in which the liquor and the beards from the 
oysters are boiled, sprinkle over the top with some large slices of cooked 
truffle, bearded oysters, and thick slices of blanched beef marrow that 
have been made hot in Champagne sauce (see recipe), and serve for a 
remove, or for second course or for luncheon, or if dished on an entree 
dish it could be served for an entree. Care must be taken that this dish 
is always sent to table boiling hot. The remains of the tongue can be 
used up for sandwiches, purees, or for potting. 



Boiled Ox-Tongue a la Dorna 
Lanujue de Bvevf bouillie d la Dorna 

Take a pickled ox-tongue that has been in soak for twelve hours, put 
it into a stewpan with sufficient cold water to cover it, add two or three 
cleansed carrots, also onions, a bunch of herbs (thyme, parsley, bayleaf, 
basil, marjoram), a stick of celery, two leeks, twenty-four peppercorns 




(black and white), three blades of mace, and twelve cloves all tied 
together in a piece of muslin ; bring to the boil, remove the scum, and 
let it simmer for two and a half to three hours ; then take up, press into 
shape, place a large skewer through^Elie root and one through the tip of 



OF EXTRA RECIPES REMOVES AND ROASTS 369 

the tongue, and put it aside in the larder till next day. Then take up 
and with a sharp pointed knife trim off all the outside fat part, put it 
again into a large stewpan, pour over it a little cooking sherry and 
about a pint of good rich clear gravy, and simmer it for one hoar ; then 
take up the tongue on to a hot dish, brush it all over with good bright 
glaze, place a frill round the root, and serve for a remove, with the pre- 
pared ragout arranged on the dish, for dinner or for luncheon or in the 
second course, using while quite hot. 

Ragout for Ox-Tongue A la Dorna. Put the gravy in which 
the tongue was braised into a stewpan with one pint of thick Espagnol 
sauce (vol. i.), a teaspoonful of arrowroot that is mixed with a little gravy, 
add the contents of a large bottle of Financiere that has been warmed 
in the bain-marie, a bottle of truffles, and the contents of a small tin 
of button mushrooms ; stir all together till boiling, and serve with the 
tongue. 

Calf's Head a l'Andr^ani 
Tete de Vea/u d VAndrfani 

Take a whole or half a calf's head and keep it in cold salted water 
for twenty-four hours, occasionally changing the water ; then remove the 
brains, bone the head, tie it up in a clean cloth, put it into cold water 
with a little salt, and bring it to the boil ; then take it up, wash it well, 
replace in the cloth, and put it into another stewpan with a plateful of 
cleansed vegetables, such as carrot, onion, leek, celery, turnip, pepper- 
corns, a bunch of herbs, and the juice of two or three lemons ; cover with 
water, bring to the boil, and let it simmer gently for three and a half to 
four hours. Then take up, remove the cloth and the tongue from the head, 
place the latter on a hot dish, crimp the ears of the head, garnish it with 
brains, &c, prepared as below, and serve with Andreani sauce poured all 
over it. The head may be garnished with hatelet skewers if liked. 

Brains and Tongue for Garnish for Calf's Head A l' Andreani. 
Blanch the brains and cut them up into nice pieces and place them in 
the sauce prepared as below. Skin the tongue and cut it up into square 
pieces and mix with the brains ; put this mixture into the centre of some 
artichoke bottoms that have been warmed in the bain-marie in their own 
liquor, and garnish the calf's head with them, allowing one to each 
person. 

Sauce for mixing Brains and Tongue. Put one wineglassful of 
sherry into a stewpan with an ounce of glaze, boil up together and add 
the tongue and brains, make hot in the bain-marie, and use. 

B B 



370 



MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 



Calf's Head a la Belgrade 

Tete de Veau a la Belgrade 

Take half a small calf's head, lay it in strong salt and water for a 
day or two previous to cooking ; then wash it thoroughly, remove the 
brains and bone, and tie up the head in a clean cloth ; place it in a 
stewpan, cover with cold water, season with a little salt, and just bring 
to the boil ; then strain, and well rinse the head in clean cold water ; put 
it again into a stewpan and cook with vegetables, &c, as for ' Calf s Head 
a l'Andreani.' When cooked take up, remove the cloth, take out the 
tongue, place the head on a crouton of bread that has been cut about an 
inch thick and the same length as the head, and fried in clean fat till a 
nice golden colour ; cut off the ear and crimp it, cover the head with 




Tomato puree (vol. i.), sprinkle over a little of Marshall's Coralline 
Pepper, and by means of a large forcing bag with a large rose pipe 
arrange a ring of Potato puree (vol. i.) where the ear has been cut 
from ; fasten the ear on again with a hatelet skewer, place two more 
skewers, one at the top of the head and one at the nose, as shown in 
the engraving, pour a good Supreme sauce (vol. i.) all round the dish, 
arrange hot Financiere garnish at the top and bottom of the dish, and 
garnish the sides with little poached quenelles of rabbit or chicken (see 
Quenelles for garnishing). Serve very hot for a remove for dinner or 
for a luncheon party. 



Calf's Head a la Francaise 

Tete de Veau d la Francaise 

Bone a nice fresh half of a calf's head, and thoroughly cleanse it by 
putting it into cold water with plenty of salt so as to draw out all the 
blood, then roll the head up lengthways and tie it up in a clean cloth ; 



OF EXTEA RECIPES REMOVES AND ROASTS 371 

put it into a stewpan the same as for ' Calf's Head a l'Andreani.' When 
cooked take it up and remove the cloth from it, and with a pair of 
scissors crimp the ear. Prepare some green Parsley sauce (vol. i.) and 
pour it all over the head, then place the head on a fried crouton of 
bread ; cut four strips of foolscap paper to stand upright over the head, 




and sprinkle over the spaces thus formed, one with chopped cooked lean 
ham or tongue, one with chopped truffle, and one with hard-boiled yolk 
of egg that has been rubbed through a wire sieve ; remove the papers, 
then garnish round the edge of the dish with slices of cooked tomatoes 
and fresh cooked mushrooms. 

Crouton for Calf's Head A la Franqaise. Take a long stale loaf 
and cut from it a slice of crumb about two inches thick and about nine 
inches long and five inches broad, cutting it round the outside in any 
pretty design, then fry it in clean boiling fat till a pretty golden colour, 
and use. 

Galantine of Veal a la Francaise 
Galantine de Veau a la Francaise 

Take a piece of breast or shoulder of veal weighing from eight to 
ten pounds, remove the bone and lay the meat open on the table ; season 
it inside with chopped eschalot, parsley, bayleaf, thyme, salt, coralline 
pepper, basil, and marjoram, then spread on it a layer about two inches 
thick of farce prepared as below, placing in this at intervals some small balls 
of herb farce, hard-boiled yolks of eggs, button mushrooms, truffles, and 
olives farced with anchovies, pressing them well into the farce; then 
place another layer of the farce on the top so as to keep all these 
ingredients in place ; fold up the meat in the form of a roll jam pudding, 
put it in a clean buttered cloth, fasten it up tightly and sew up the 
cloth, and tie up the ends with string so as to keep the meat close ; put to 
cook in a stewpan for three and a half to four hours in stock or water 
with the bones from the meat, and a good plateful of cleansed vegetables, 
such as carrot, onions, turnip, celery, leek, and herbs and spices ; bring 
to the boil and skim, and simmer gently till cooked. When cooked 

B B 2 



372 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

take up, remove the cloth, and put in a deep dish or stewpan that will 
allow the galantine to lay perfectly flat ; let it cool, then cover it entirely 
with clarified gravy, as below, and set away till the next day. Then 
take up the galantine with the jelly and cut the jelly round, leaving it 
about two inches wide all round, and place on a large flat dish and 
garnish with nice sprigs of fresh raw green parsley. Serve for ball 
supper, luncheon, &c. 

Farce for Galantine of Veal A la Francaise. Take two and a 
half pounds of fresh loin of pork, one pound fat and lean bacon, and two 
pounds fillet of veal, cut up small and pass twice through a sausage 
machine ; season with salt and coralline pepper, mix in two whole raw 
eggs and two wineglassfuls of sherry ; mix up together, and then use. 

Gravy for Galantine of Veal a la Francaise. Take three quarts 
of the liquor in which the galantine was cooked, freed from fat, add two 
ounces of Marshall's gelatine to each quart, flavour with sherry and a 
little salt, allow four whites of eggs to each quart to clarify ; bring to the 
boil, then strain, and use when cool. The rest of the stock can be used 
up for soup. 

York Ham a la Polonaise 
Jambon de York a la Polonaise 

Take a very small York ham and soak it for twenty-four hours in 
cold water, remove with a knife all the underneath dry part, tie it up 
in a cloth and put in boiling water, and allow about twenty minutes for 
each pound ; then take up, remove the cloth, and trim off the skin care- 
fully with a sharp-pointed knife. Place the ham in another stewpan, with 
about half a pint of champagne, and let it simmer in this for about 
half an hour either on the stove or in the oven ; then take up the ham, 
brush it all over with good clear warm glaze, place it in a baking-tin, 
and put it to crisp in the oven for about fifteen minutes ; then take up, 
brush over with a little more warm glaze, place a frill on the bone, and 
serve on a hot dish with Polonaise sauce (see recipe) handed in a 
sauceboat. This is a nice dish for second course, luncheon, &c. 

Spanish Ham 
Jambon a VEspagnole 

Scrape the ham well and trim off any dry parts, put it to soak in 
cold water for about twenty-four hours, occasionally changing the water ; 
tie it up in a buttered cloth, and put it in a stewpan with peeled and 
sliced onion, carrot, turnip, celery, leek, herbs (thyme, parsley, bay leaf, 



OF EXTRA RECIPES REMOVES AND ROASTS 373 

basil, and marjoram), a few peppercorns, one or two blades of mace, eight 
or ten cloves, and a pint of sherry ; let it draw down in this until it has 
absorbed all the wine, then cover it with really well-flavoured stock 
made from cooked meat bones, and any game or poultry bones can be 
used to flavour it, and cook, allowing twenty minutes for each pound up 
to twelve pounds, and a quarter of an hour for every pound beyond ; 
then leave it in the mirepoix till cold, take up, remove the cloth and 
the skin from the ham, and very neatly trim off any fat which looks 
rough. If the ham has to be served cold, glaze it over, dish it up, 
and garnish with aspic jelly or picked parsley ; place a frill on the 
knucklebone, and serve. If to be served hot, put it into a pan with 
a pint of sherry after it is trimmed, and boil the sherry with the ham ; 
dish up and glaze it over, using a brush for the purpose ; strain the 
liquor from the braise and remove the fat from it ; take half a pint 
of good Espagnol sauce (vol. i.), add to the sauce the reduced liquor 
in which the ham was cooked, and a wineglassful of sherry, two or 
three washed fresh mushrooms, a pinch of castor sugar ; boil up together, 
keep skimmed while cooking, then tammy, and use. 



Ham and Chicken a la Douglas 
Jambon et Poidet o hi Douglas 

Put a nice York ham into cold water to soak for a day or two, during 
which time change the water occasionally, then trim off all the unneces- 
sary underskin, and saw off the tip end of the knucklebone ; tie up the 



ham in a clean cloth, and put it into a saucepan with good-flavoured cold 
stock ; bring this to the boil, then skim ; cover over the stewpan and let 
the ham simmer gently for two and a half to three hours. When cooked 



374 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

set the ham aside in the stock till perfectly cold, then take up the ham, 
remove the cloth, peel off the top skin very carefully to within four or 
five inches of the knuckle, and then with a very sharp knife trim the fat 
quite evenly, but remove as little as possible ; wipe it over carefully with 
a clean soft cloth, then brush it over with a little liquid aspic jelly, 
using the jelly while it is of the consistency of single cream. Dish 
up the ham on a flat silver dish, place a frill on the knuckle, garnish the 
top with fancy hatelet skewers, place round the dish a bed of finely- 
chopped aspic jelly, and surround it with little creams of chicken as 
below. This dish can be served for a ball supper or for any cold 
collation. 

Little Creams of Chicken for Garnishing Ham a la Douglas. 
Take some little ham moulds, line the top parts with Aspic cream 
(vol. i.) and the lower parts with red-coloured aspic, using a little ice 
for the purpose of setting them. When this is set fill up the inside with 
a puree of chicken prepared as follows : Take the meat from a boiled or 
roast chicken, free it from bone and skin, and pound it till smooth with 
a wineglassful of sherry, half a pint of thick cream, a pinch of salt, 
three or four drops of lemon juice, and a pinch of coralline pepper ; mix 
with one pint of good-flavoured chicken gravy in which one ounce of 
glaze is dissolved with half an ounce of Marshall's gelatine, rub it through 
a tammy, and use. 

Boar's Head 
Tete de Somglier 

Take a boar's head (or a pig's head, which is often used instead and 
forms a nice dish), bone it, and put it in pickle three weeks or a month 
before using, thus : rub it well two or three times a week with the fol- 
lowing ingredients pounded together till smooth viz. two pounds of 
salt, a quarter-pound of moist sugar, a quarter-pint of strained lemon 
juice, half a tablespoonful of cocoa, two sprigs of sage, two teaspoonfuls 
of French mustard, one teaspoonful each of ground ginger, ground nut- 
meg, ground allspice, ground cloves, ground mace, about thirty pounded 
peppercorns, black and white, half an ounce of Marshall's Coralline Pepper, 
the peel of one lemon, a tablespoonful of tamarinds, ditto powdered cumin 
seed, and twelve pounded almonds. Then rinse it well and lay it out flat, 
and stuff the inside with a well-seasoned farce made of two and a half 
pounds of veal and two and a half pounds of fresh pork ; then place about 
six hard-boiled yolks of eggs that are masked with a little chopped parsley 
in the farce, and six or eight turned olives and mushrooms, six filleted 



OF EXTRA RECIPES REMOVES AND ROASTS 



375 



Christiania anchovies, one and a half pounds of strips of tongue, half a 
pound of bacon, thirty-six pistachio nuts, and six or more large truffles, 
and fasten up the head in the cloth and boil for five or six hours in stock 
or water with a good plateful of vegetables, carrot, onion, six bayleaves, 
six or eight sprigs of thyme, a teaspoonful of black and white peppercorns, 
six or eight cloves, six blades of mace, and head of celery. Let it cook 




gently, and when done take up and tighten the cloth and put it away 
until the next day ; then put it on a silver dish, put the eyes and tusks in, 
mask it with glaze and garnish with butter (see recipe of Butter for gar- 
nishing ham, vol. i. page 314) and cut aspic jelly, truffles, cockscombs, 
mushrooms, and paper cap, as shown in the engraving. The eyes and 
tusks are kept ready for use. 



376 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 



CHAPTEE IX 
DRESSED VEGETABLES AND MEAGRE DISHES 

Asparagus a l'lrlandaise 

Asperges a VIrlandaise 

Cleanse and cook the Asparagus' (vol. i. page 252), for twenty-five to 
thirty minutes, or use bottled or tinned, then take up and put away on 
ice, or in the ice cave with a damp napkin over it, till quite cold ; dish 
on a crouton of fried bread, and pour cold Irlandaise sauce (vol. i.) 
round it ; garnish with tarragon and chervil, iced artichoke bottoms cut 
into halves, and cut raw tomatoes, seasoned with mignonette pepper, 
a little salt, salad oil, and tarragon vinegar, and use for luncheon or as a 
second-course dish. 

Asparagus a l'Espagne 

Asperges d VEspagne 

Take some plainly boiled Asparagus (vol. i. page 252), place it in a 
pile on a square piece of buttered toast or a fried crouton, then arrange 
round it some small croutons of fried bread, placing on each crouton a 
nicely-poached fresh egg brushed over with a little warm butter and 
sprinkled over with finely-chopped raw green parsley ; pour here and 
there on the dish between the croutons some Tomato puree (vol. i.) ; 
serve while hot for luncheon or as a second-course dish. 

Asparagus a la Princesse 
Asperges a la Princesse 

Mix together in a stewpan one ounce of fine flour and one ounce of 
fresh butter, add half a pint of cream, a pinch of coralline pepper, and 
one very finely-chopped eschalot, and stir these together over the fire till 
the mixture boils, then add the strained juice of a lemon, and half a 
gill of cold single cream or milkj- and tammy. Have six whole eggs 
whipped for several minutes, then mix with the cream mixture in a 



OF EXTRA RECIPES DRESSED VEGETABLES, ETC. 



377 



saute pan, stir over the fire till the mixture thickens, but do not let it 
boil ; butter an entree dish, spread a thin layer of the prepared sauce 
all over the bottom, arrange a layer of cooked asparagus that is cut in 
lengths of about one inch on it, place here and there little pieces 
of butter, then cover the asparagus over with another layer of the sauce, 
and continue this process until the dish is three-parts full. Then have 




five whites of eggs whipped very stiff, with a pinch of salt and a dust of 
coralline pepper, place this in a forcing bag with a rose pipe, cover the 
contents of the dish as in engraving with the mixture, sprinkle all over 
with finely-grated Parmesan cheese, and stand the dish in a tin con- 
taining boiling water ; place it in a moderate oven for about fifteen 
minutes, when it should be a pretty brown colour and quite crisp, then 
take up and serve for a second-course or luncheon dish. 

Asparagus Suedoise Sauce 
Asperges Sauce Suedoise 

Open a tin of asparagus, and place it on some pounded ice till 
perfectly cold. Take a timbal mould (specially made for this purpose) 
and fill it with plain cold water ; place it in the charged ice cave and 
let it remain for two and a half to three hours, occasionally turning the 




mould from side to side in the cave so as to get the water thoroughly 
frozen ; then dip the mould into tepid water, pass a clean cloth over the 
bottom to absorb any moisture, and turn out the ice on to the dish on 
which it is to be served, on a dish-paper or a folded napkin. 



378 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

Drain the asparagus on a clean cloth, cut off any hard part from the 
bottom of the stems, and then arrange it in a group, as shown in 
the engraving, in the centre of the timbal of ice ; garnish round the 
top of the timbal with little picked sprigs of nice green fresh chervil, 
and serve for second course or luncheon, or for any cold collation, with 
iced Suedoise sauce in a sauceboat. 



Asparagus Salad a la Campagne 
Salade d'Asperges a la Campagne 

Take some tinned or plainly boiled fresh asparagus, drain it and cut 
it up into lengths of about one inch, season with salad oil, strained 
lemon juice, salt, finely-chopped tarragon and chervil and eschalot ; dish 
up in a pile on the dish on which the salad is to be served, sprinkle all 
over it some finely-shredded cooked white meat such as chicken, &c, 
and arrange as a border round the dish some blanched calf's brains that are 
cut in slices half an inch thick, masked over with Mayonnaise sauce (vol.i.), 
and dusted with dry curry powder; garnish the dish here and there 
with small French red chillies, and serve for luncheon, ball suppers, &c. 



Asparagus and Artichoke Bottoms a la Cannes 
Asperges et Fonds d 'Artichauts a la Cannes 

Take some cooked asparagus, and cut the tender part up into lengths 
of about one inch, drain the moisture from it, mix with the sauce 
prepared as below, add a few sliced truffles, and keep quite hot in the 
bain-marie. Make some preserved or freshly-cooked artichoke bottoms 
quite hot by putting them in a stewpan with a good wineglassful of 
sherry, cover over the pan and place it on the stove till the contents 
are well reduced ; then dish up the artichokes on some cooked sliced 
tomatoes, fill the artichoke bottoms with the prepared asparagus, and 
serve, arranging them straight down the dish on a puree of potato, 
forced from a bag with a large rose pipe, for a second- course or luncheon 
dish, or as a vegetable entree. 

Sauce for Asparagus A la Cannes. Put into a stewpan one ounce 
of glaze, a dust of coralline pepper, a wineglassful of sherry, and a gill 
of good clear gravy ; just bring to the boil, then thicken it with a quarter 
of an ounce of arrowroot that has been mixed till smooth with two 
tablespoonfuls of mushroom liquor, stir on the fire till it boils, and 
use. 



OF EXTRA RECIPES DRESSED VEGETABLES, ETC. 379 

Artichokes Plain 
Artichants naturels 

Trim the tops and cut off the stalks evenly of some nice fresh arti- 
chokes, put them in cold water with a little salt, and let them remain 
in this for two or three hours ; then put them into plenty of slightly 
salted boiling water, and let them simmer gently for fifty to sixty 




minutes. Then take them up with a slice, drain them on a clean hair 
sieve, place them on a hot dish on a paper or napkin, and serve for a 
second-course vegetable or for breakfast or luncheon, either as a hot or 
cold dish, with Mayonnaise, Vinaigrette, Suedoise, or Verte sauce handed 
in a sauceboat. 

Artichoke Bottoms a la Fife 
Fowls d'Artichauts a la Fife 

Take some tinned or freshly cooked artichoke bottoms (vol. i. page 
248), season them with a little salad oil, a little chopped truffle, lean cooked 
ham, and cooked sweetbread also cut up ; pile up in the centre of a dish 
on a bed of crisp well-washed lettuce, pour the prepared tomato puree 
round the base, and serve for luncheon, second course, or for any cold 
collation. 

Puree for Artichoke Bottoms A la Fife. Pound four raw ripe 
tomatoes, rub them through a sieve, mix with them the raw yolks of 
two eggs, a few drops of carmine, a dust of coralline pepper, a quarter- 
pint of thick Mayonnaise sauce (vol. i.), and six turned and shredded 
Spanish olives ; stir well together and use. 

Artichoke Salad 
Salcule d'Artichauts 

Lay the green artichokes in cold water for an hour or two before 
cooking, then simmer them in boiling water for forty to fifty minutes, 
then drain them on a sieve till cold ; cut each lengthwise into four pieces, 
remove all the choke by means of a small pointed knife, and lay the 



380 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

pieces on a plate, season them with salad oil, tarragon, and chilli vinegar, 
chopped eschalot, parsley, and mignonette pepper ; dish up en couronne 



on an entree or flat dish, and serve either as a dressed vegetable or for 
luncheon with any nice sauce in a sauceboat. 

Artichoke Bottoms with. Asparagus Points a l'Estragon 
Fonds d' Artichauts aux Pointes d'Asperges a l'Estragon 

Open a tin of artichoke bottoms and put it in the bain-marie till the 
vegetables are quite hot, then remove them from the tin and arrange 
each on round croutons of fried bread. Warm some tinned asparagus 
points (or fresh ones when in season) in a little warm butter, and fill up 
the artichoke bottoms with them. Dish up on a hot dish, pour Cream 
sauce (see recipe) over, and serve for a second-course vegetable, allow- 
ing one artichoke bottom to each person. 

Artichoke Bottoms a la Bourgogaic 
Fonds d' Artichauts d la Bourgogaic 

Take some cooked artichoke bottoms and fill them with the prepared 
puree, using a forcing bag and large rose pipe for the purpose, sprinkle one 
of the artichokes with some hard-boiled yolk of egg that has been rubbed 
through a sieve, another with chopped lean cooked ham or tongue, and 
another with chopped French gherkin. Dish them up on a bed of crisp 
lettuce that has been mixed with a little salad oil, tarragon and chilli 
vinegar, and serve either as an entree for a few people, or as a secon d- 
course or luncheon dish. 

Puree for Artichoke Bottoms a la Bourgogaic. Take a quarter- 
pound of cooked chicken (free it from skin and bone and chop it up 
finely), two ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, a dust of coralline pepper, 
a teaspoonful of French mustard, one finely-chopped truffle, one ounce 
of lean cooked ham or tongue also chopped up ; mix up all together with 
half a pint of aspic jelly and a quarter-pint of stiffly-whipped cream. 
Stir all together on ice till beginning to set, then put it into the forcing 
bag and use. 



OF EXTRA RECIPES DRESSED VEGETABLES, ETC. 38]. 

Artichoke Bottoms a la Valentine 
Fonds d'Artichauts a la Valentine 

Take a tin of artichoke bottoms, open it and stand it in the bain- 
marie to make the contents hot, then remove them from the tin and put 
in the bottom of each half a teaspoonful of thick Veloute sauce (vol. i.), 
and place on this one or two chestnuts prepared as below. Whip two 
or three whites of eggs stiffly with a pinch of salt, put it into a forcing 
bag with a large rose pipe, and mask the chestnuts over entirely with 



it ; then place the artichokes in a buttered saute pan, and put them in 
the oven till they become a pretty golden colour, then remove ; sprinkle 
them over with a little finely-chopped parsley, dish them up on little 
croutons of fried bread, and pour Tomato butter (vol. i.) round the base. 
Serve hot, one to each person, for a second-course or luncheon dish. 

Chestnuts for Artichoke Bottoms a la Valentine. Cut off the 
tops from half a pound of good chestnuts, and put the latter into the 
oven to bake for about twenty minutes ; then remove, peel them, and 
put them into a. clean stewpan with half a pint of really good stock, a 
pinch of sugar, and an ounce of butter ; put a buttered paper over, and 
let them braise on the side of the stove till tender, adding more stock 
if needed. When ready for use they should present a nice glazed 
appearance. 

Salad of French Beans a la Flamande 

Salade de Haricots Verts a la Jblamande 

Take two pounds of tinned or freshly-cooked French beans, drain them, 
and mix them with salad oil, strained lemon juice, and thick cream, and 
place them in a pile in the centre of the dish on which the salad is to 
be served. Cut a large plainly boiled cold Spanish onion lengthwise 
into twelve pieces, mask each piece with chutney, curry powder, and 
lemon juice, and arrange as a border round the beans ; sprinkle the 
border thickly with hard-boiled yolk of egg that has been rubbed 
through a sieve, sprinkle some lean cooked chopped ham over both 
beans and onions, and serve for luncheon or second course. 



382 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 



French Beans with Cream of Turnips 
Haricots Verts an Greme de Navets 

Cut some French beans in small strips, wash them well and put 
them into boiling water with a little salt and a tiny piece of soda to 
cook for about half an hour till tender; then strain off from the water 
and add to them a pat of fresh butter, a sprinkling of chopped fresh 
parsley, and a little lemon juice. Dish them up in a border of puree 
of turnips (vol. i. page 247), and serve at once. 



Flageolets a la Spencer 
Flageolets a la Spencer 

Take four peeled onions cut in small dice shapes, a good pinch of 
Marshall's Coralline Pepper, two ounces of fat and lean raw bacon, one 
ounce of butter, fry together for about fifteen minutes ; then add one 
ounce of Marshall's Creme de Riz, a quarter-pint of oyster liquor, a tea- 
spoonful of Bovril, half a pint of light stock or, if liked, milk, a quarter- 
pint of cream ; stir till boiling, then simmer for half an hour. Strain 
the liquor from a tin of flageolets and add the contents to the sauce with 
one ounce of grated Parmesan cheese and six or eight raw bearded 
sauce oysters that have been chopped fine ; just bring to the boil, then 
turn out on a hot dish in a border of plainly boiled curry rice (vol. i.) 
that is sprinkled with a little finely-chopped raw green parsley, and 
a little coralline pepper, and use for second course or luncheon. 



Salad of Flageolets a la Francaise 

Salade de Flageolets a la Francaise 

Drain the contents of a tin of flageolets on a sieve, and mix with 
them one very finely-chopped raw onion, two ounces of finely-chopped 
lean cooked ham, a quarter-pint of salad oil, four hard-boiled eggs cut 
in little dice shapes, four ounces of cooked white meat that is freed from 
skin and bone, a tablespoonful of French vinegar, and a pinch of castor 
sugar ; stir up all together, turn on to a dish, and garnish with scraped 
cleansed horseradish and chopped cooked beetroot alternately, seasoning 
the garnish with a little salad oil, salt, and vinegar. Serve for luncheon 
or for any cold collation. 



OF EXTRA RECIPES DRESSED VEGETABLES, ETC. 383 

Cardoons with. Marrow 
Cordons d la Moelle 

Cleanse and string the cardoons, and cut them into strips about six 
to seven inches in length ; wash these well in cold water and salt, tie 
them up into a bundle and put them into cold water with a little 
lemon-juice ; bring this to the boil, then strain and wash the cardoons 
well and put them into a stewpan with sufficient thin Brown sauce 
(vol. i.) to cover them ; add a wineglassful of sherry, one ounce of glaze, 
a pinch of castor sugar, and two or three fresh chopped mushrooms tied 
in a little piece of muslin ; cook the cardoons steadily for two and a half to 
three hours, when they should be tender. The sauce should be skimmed 
while boiling. 

When cooked dish up the cardoons on a crouton of fried bread, 
tammy the sauce, and pour it over the cardoons, garnish it with blanched 
marrow (vol. i. page 33), cut crosswise in pieces about a quarter of an inch 
thick, and with a few sliced truffles, then serve for an entree or for a 
second-course or luncheon dish. 

Carrots a la Flamande 
Garottes d la Flamande 

Peel or scrape some new fresh carrots and cut them into lengths of 
about one and a half inches, then trim them into kite shapes ; if small 
new carrots are used they may be served whole, or halved, or quartered 
according to their size ; put them into a stewpan into cold water suffi- 
cient to cover them, add a little salt, and bring to the boil, then strain 
and dry in a clean cloth. Put into the same stewpan one ounce of 
butter, let this melt, put the carrots into it, place the stewpan on the 
side of the stove, cover it down, and let the contents fry gently for 
about fifteen minutes ; then add about a quarter-pint of good flavoured 
light stock, and the pulp from three large ripe tomatoes, cover the pan 
again and let the carrots simmer till tender ; have four or five tomatoes 
cut into quarters, free them from the pips, place them in a buttered 
saute pan, season them with a little pepper and salt, place a well- 
buttered paper over, and cook in the oven for ten to twelve minutes ; 
cut some little croutons in kite shapes, fry them till a very pale golden 
colour, and arrange them round a dish so as to form a border ; place the 
prepared tomatoes on the croutons, and then mix a quarter of an ounce 
of Marshall's Creme de Riz with about a tablespoonful of light stock, and 



384 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

pour it into the pan with the carrots ; allow these to reboil, turn them 
out into the centre of the croutons, sprinkle them over with a little finely- 
chopped parsley, and serve for a second-course or luncheon dish. 



New Carrots a la Francaise 
Garottes Nouvelles a la Francaise 

Take some young carrots, wash, peel, and cut them into small olive 
shapes, turn them with a garnishing knife and put them into cold water 
with a little salt ; bring to the boil, then strain and dry the carrots 
in a clean cloth and fry them in a stewpan with a pat of fresh butter 
over a steady fire for fifteen to twenty minutes, then add a wineglassful 
of sheny and a quarter-pint of good flavoured stock ; bring this to the 




boil, and cook the carrots for about one hour, occasionally adding a 
little more stock as that in the pan reduces, when the carrots should 
present a glazed appearance ; add to them a tiny dust of castor sugar 
and a few cooked shredded button mushrooms. Put them into paste 
cases as below, ornament round the tops of the cases with little rings 
of the same paste, dish on a paper on a hot dish, and serve either as a 
dressed vegetable, second-course dish, or as a vegetable entree. 

Paste Cases for Carrots a la Francaise. Pub a quarter of a 
pound of fine flour with two ounces of butter, a little salt and cayenne 
till smooth, then mix in one whole raw egg and a little cream, making it 
into a stiff dry paste, roll this out thinly, and with it line some little 
corbeille or croustade tins ; prick the paste well at the bottom to pre- 
vent it blistering, line them with a buttered kitchen paper and fill up 
with raw rice, bake them in a moderate oven till a pretty golden colour 
and quite crisp, then remove the rice and papers and use as directed 
above. Stamp out some tiny rings of the same paste with a fluted 
cutter, bake them, then brush each over with a very little raw white of 
egg, sprinkle them with a little chopped raw green parsley, and use for 
ornamenting the tops of the cases when prepared. 



OF EXTRA RECIPES DRESSED VEGETABLES, ETC. 385 

Carrots a l'lnd 

( 'nrnftes d l'lnd 

Take for five or six persons about one and a half pounds of young- 
carrots and pull or cut off the tops ; well wash the carrots in cold water 
and peel them, then put them into a saucepan with sufficient cold water 
to cover them, and bring to the boil ; then drain and rinse in cold water 
and rub them in a dry cloth to remove the outer skin ; trim the tops 
round with a knife, and if they are large cut them in halves, then place 
them in a stewpan with one and a half ounces of butter, a bunch of herbs 
(such as thyme, parsley, and bayleaf), a dust of Marshall's Coralline Pepper, 
and two finely-chopped eschalots ; fry these for about ten to fifteen 
minutes, then add half a pint of good-flavoured stock, and boil together for 
about an hour, adding a little more stock as that in the pan reduces, then 
remove the herbs and add two tablespoonfuls of thick Espagriol sauce 
(vol. i.), four ounces of cooked lean ham or tongue cut up in little dice 
shapes, a teaspoonful of chutney, a saltspoonful of curry paste, and the 
juice of half a lemon ; reboil and add one finely-chopped green capsicum 
from which the seeds have been removed ; put into a basin two raw 
yolks of eggs and half a gill of thick cream, mix well together, then 
pour into the stewpan with the carrots and stir till the sauce thickens, 
add a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, and dish up in a border of plainly- 
boiled rice. Serve hot for a luncheon or second-course dish. 



Carrots a la Maiden 
Garottes d la Maiden 

Take some new carrots, peel or scrape them, and wash in clean cold 
water. If they are large, cut them into lengths of about two and a half 
inches long, or, if small, cut them in halves or quarters and put them 
in a stewpan with sufficient cold water to cover them, add a little salt 
and bring to the boil, then strain and dry in a clean cloth. Put into a 
stewpan about one ounce of butter, and fry the carrots for about a 
quarter of an hour, then add about half a pint of white wine, half an 
ounce of glaze, one eschalot chopped fine, and a bunch of herbs (such as 
thyme, parsley, bayleaf), cover the pan over and let the contents 
simmer gently for about two hours, then take up the herbs and add two 
or three tablespoonfuls of thick Brown sauce (vol. i.), boil up again and 
add eight or ten nice round slices of blanched beef marrow (vol. i. page 33) ; 
allow this to get hot, then add a teaspoonful cf French capers and the 

C C 



386 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

same of chopped raw parsley, a few drops of liquid carmine, and serve 
very hot in a vol-au-vent case (see Vol-au-Vent a la St. George ') on a 
hot dish for an entree or for a second-course dish. 



Carrots a la Rosina 
Carottes d la Rosina 

Take some new carrots, say about one and a half to two pounds, for 
iive or six persons, wash them and put them in a saucepan with enough 
cold water to cover them, add a little salt, and bring to the boil, strain 
off, and rub them in a dry cloth to remove the skins and the tops, 
and if they are not very small they can be cut into three or four pieces. 
Have a pint of good-flavoured Brown stock (vol. i.), and put it into the 
saucepan with the carrots, a bunch of herbs, a few drops of carmine, and 
one peeled onion that is stuck with two cloves ; place a lid on the pan, 
and let the contents boil for about one hour, when the liquor will have 
become reduced to about half the quantity ; put into a basin a teaspoonful 
of arrowroot and mix it up with a tablespoonful of cold water and the 
strained juice of half a lemon, and pour it into the saucepan through a 
strainer, let all boil up again together, and then sprinkle in a pinch of 
finely-chopped parsley, and dish up the carrots in a pile in a square case 
made of puff paste, and garnish the top with four bunches of cooked 
shredded cucumber, arranged rather high. Serve on a hot dish for a 
second-course or luncheon dish. 

Paste Case for Carrots A la Rosina. Take a quarter of a pound 
of puff paste (vol. i.), and with it line a square fleur ring to about a 
quarter of an inch thick ; place a piece of buttered paper inside the 
paste, fill it up with raw rice and place it in a moderate oven and bake 
it for about twenty minutes ; then remove the paper and rice and brush 
the inside of the case over with warm glaze and dust it over with grated 
Parmesan cheese ; then put it again in the oven for about five minutes ; 
remove from the fleur ring and use. 

Carrots a la Brunswick 
Garottes d la Brunswick 

Take about a pound of small, young, freshly-gathered carrots, scrape 
or peel them, and well wash in cold water, and put them in a stewpan 
with enough cold water to cover them ; add a pinch of salt, bring to the 
boil, then strain and rinse in cold water, and put again into the stewpan 
with half an ounce of fine, sifted flour, the liquor from a tin of button 



OF EXTRA RECIPES DRESSED VEGETABLES, ETC. 387 

mushrooms, a wineglassful of sherry, a pinch of castor sugar, a few drops 
of carmine, and a quarter of a pint of good Brown sauce (vol. i.) ; cover 
the stewpan, and let the carrots simmer in the liquor on the stove for 
about two hours ; then strain them, add another quarter of a pint of 
Brown sauce and the strained juice of an orange to the liquor in the 
pan, and reduce this to a thick, creamy consistency ; then wring it 
through a clean tammy cloth, return it to the stewpan, add the carrots 
and button mushrooms, about eight or ten Spanish olives that have 
been turned and finely shredded, and two ounces of lean" cooked ham, 
cut in the same way ; put these to get hot in the bain-marie ; have a 
quarter of a pound of Patna rice prepared as for curry, and, when quite 
dry and hot, put it in a stewpan with two ounces of warmed fresh 
butter, mix together, sprinkle with a little finely-chopped parsley, and 
chopped lean ham or tongue, and form this into a border; then turn the 
carrots, &c, into it, and serve for a second-course or luncheon dish. 



Salad of Carrots 
Salade cle Garottes 

Cut some cleansed, plainly boiled, good-coloured carrots into slices, 
and season them with thick cream, salad oil, tarragon vinegar, salt, and 
coralline pepper ; arrange a layer of them on the dish on which the salad 
is to be served, sprinkle over it some thinly-cut rings of raw, peeled 
onions, then another layer of the carrots, and so on until the dish is full ; 
lastly arrange a layer of separately-minced, cooked lean ham and chicken ; 
sprinkle this over with some more oil, cream, and vinegar, and serve for 
luncheon or for any cold collation. 

The carrots will take from one to two hours to boil, according to 
their being young or old. 

Cauliflower a la Nimes 
Choufleur d la Nimes 

Take a plainly boiled cauliflower ; when cooked, cut it through 
vertically into eight or ten pieces, according to the size ; arrange it en 
couronne on the dish on which it is to be served ; then pour over it 
sauce prepared as below, and serve for luncheon or dinner as a second 
course, or for a meagre dish. 

Sauce for Cauliflower a la Nimes. Take one pint of creamy 
Bechamel sauce (vol. i.), add to it the strained juice of one lemon, one 
ounce of pounded live lobster spawn, the puree of six Christiania 

c c 2 



388 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

anchovies, a teaspoonful of anchovy essence, a few drops of liquid carmine, 
a pinch of coralline pepper ; stir till boiling, then add a quarter of a 
pint of the prepared crayfish bodies (from bottle), or fresh if in season, 
that are cut in halves or three pieces. Serve for luncheon or dinner as 
a second-course dish. 

Cauliflowers a la Heine 
Choiixflews d la Heine 

Take some perfectly young cauliflowers for this dish, and put them 
in cold water and salt to soak for two to three hours ; trim off the leaves, 
with the exception of those near the cauliflower, and leave as much of 
the stem as seems likely to be tender ; after they have soaked, put them 
in a stewpan into sufficient cold water to cover them, with a little salt ; 
bring to the boil, then take them up and drop them into clean, cold 
water, which will remove all the strong flavour and smell ; replace them 
into plenty of boiling water that is slightly salted, and cook for about 
half an hour till tender ; then take up on a hair sieve, and let them 
drain. Cut two ounces of lean cooked ham into tiny dice shapes, chop 
one eschalot fine, and put both these into a stewpan with about three- 
quarters of a pint of good flavoured chicken, veal, or rabbit stock ; bring 
to the boil, and let it simmer on the side of the stove for about twenty 
minutes. Fry together, without discolouring, two ounces of fine flour 
and two ounces of butter ; then mix into it the mixture prepared as 
above, and stir till it boils ; then add a quarter-pint of thick cream and 
a dust of coralline pepper. Dish up the cauliflowers in a pile, pour the 
sauce over, and garnish round the dish with quarters of hot hard-boiled 
eggs. Serve for a second-course or luncheon dish. One small cauli- 
flower should be allowed for two to three persons, and the above quantity 
of sauce is sufficient for six or eight persons. 

Cauliflower Salad 

Chovfleur en Salade 

Remove. the outside leaves from a nice, fresh cauliflower, well wash it 
in cold water, and put it into a stewpan, with sufficient cold water to 
cover it, season with salt, and just bring to the boil ; then strain and 
rinse it well in cold water, and cook in boiling water till tender ; then 
take up the cauliflower on a hair sieve, and leave to drain till cold, cut 
it into nice pieces, leaving the flower as whole as possible; put the 
pieces on a flat dish, season with salad oil, raw mustard, salt, and finely- 
chopped parsley, eschalot, mignonette pepper, and tarragon vinegar ; 



OF EXTRA RECIPES DRESSED VEGETABLES, ETC. 389 

mask it over with a good thick Tomato mayonnaise (see recipe), sprinkle 
over it some finely-shredded peeled cucumber, French gherkin, and 
French red chillies, and serve with cold meat, chicken, &c, 



Fondue of Celery 

Fondue au Celeri 

Wash well two or three sticks of perfectly fresh celery, and chop 
them up finely ', put this into a stewpan, with sufficient cold water to 
cover it ; add a pinch of salt, bring the water to the boil, then strain, 
and return the celery to the stewpan, and put with it a pint of new milk 
and a bunch of herbs (thyme, parsley, and bayleaf) ; bring this to the 
boil, put the cover on the pan, and let the contents simmer for about 
two hours, when they should be quite tender and of a pulpy consistency ; 
then rub it through a fine hair sieve. Put into a stewpan one ounce 
and a half of butter, and one ounce of fine flour ; stir these together over 
a fire until the butter melts and the flour is mixed quite smooth ; then 
add the celery, prepared as above, which should produce together about 
half a pint in bulk ; stir until it boils, then season it with a pinch of 
salt, coralline pepper, and the strained juice of half a lemon. Put into 
a basin three raw j^olks of eggs, mix them with a wooden spoon until 
quite creamy, and stir into this the mixture prepared as above. Have 
the whites of three eggs whipped stiffly with a pinch of salt, and mix 
into the other preparation, taking care not to work them together much 
after the whites are added, or they will curdle. Have some small china 
or paper cases, and partly fill them with this mixture ; sprinkle over the 
top a few browned breadcrumbs, and put into a moderate oven for about 
fifteen minutes, when they should be a pretty brown colour, and have 
risen to twice their original size ; then dish up on a hot dish, on a 
napkin or dish paper, sprinkle with a little finely-chopped green parsley, 
and serve at once for a second-course or luncheon dish. 

If paper souffle cases are used, the outside must be first rubbed over 
with a little salad oil, and then put into the screen to dry. 

Cucumbers a la Brabant 
Concombres d la Brabant 

Take a cucumber, peel it, and cut up in slices ; stamp out the seeds, 
and put the rings into a stewpan with enough chicken, veal, or rabbit 
stock to cover them, and cook for about fifteen minutes, and strain off. 
Have some small tomatoes peeled, and the seeds scooped out ; season 



390 mi:s. a. r>. Marshall's larger cookery book 

them with pepper, salt, and a little chopped eschalot, and very finely- 
grated or chopped raw bacon, fat and lean, putting about a teaspoonful 
of the bacon in each tomato ; place them in a greased tin, and leave them 
in the oven with a cover over them to cook for about fifteen minutes ; 
dish each of them up on a fried crouton of bread that is cut about two 
inches in diameter and one inch thick, and arrange the rings of 
cucumber in a coil on the top of each tomato, covering the top entirely, 
and sprinkle with a little chopped parsley. Put one ounce of butter 
and the same of flour in a stewpan, lightly fry it, and then mix it with 
half a pint of the liquor in which the cucumber was cooked; stir together 
till it boils, then add about eight drops of tarragon vinegar and a salt- 
spoonful of French mustard, one tablespoonful of cream, a dust of 
Marshall's Coralline Pepper; tammy and add two tablespoonful s of 
finely-shredded lettuce that has been blanched and gently fried in an 
ounce of butter on the side of the stove for about ten minutes, then 
covered with stock and simmered till tender. Dish up the croutons, 
and pour the sauce round the dish. These are excellent for second 
course or luncheon. 

Cucuinber Farced with. Marrow 
Concombre Farci au Moelle 

Peel a nice fresh cucumber and cut it in lengths of about one and a 
half inches, stamp out the core by means of a plain round vegetable 
c utter, then put the pieces of cucumber into a stewpan with cold water 
and a little salt and bring to the boil, rinse and put them into boiling 
water to cook for ten to fifteen minutes, and put aside on a sieve to cool, 
then farce each piece with beef marrow, and when this farce is quite 
set roll the pieces separately in fine flour, then dip them in whole 
beaten-up egg, and then into freshly-made white breadcrumbs ; repeat 
this twice, roll carefully till smooth, and place in a frying basket, and 
fry in clean boiling fat till a pretty golden colour ; dish up on a hot 
dish, and serve as a vegetable for dinner, luncheon, or for a second 
course. Dish with a puree of spinach (vol. i.) or any nice green 
vegetables in the centre, and a creamy Soubise sauce (vol. i.) round the 
base. 

Marrow for Farcixg Cucumbers. Put four tablespoonfuls of 
Tomato sauce (vol. i.) in a stewpan with a chopped eschalot, a quarter of 
an ounce of glaze and half a wineglassful of sherry ; reduce to half the 
quantity, then let it cool a little and mix into it the marrow that is. 
cut up in little dice shapes and sprinkled with a little freshly-chopped 
parsley ; allow it to set before using. . 



OF EXTRA RECIPESDRESSED VEGETABLES, ETC. 391 

Braised Lettuce 
Laitue Braisee 

Trim and well wash some fresh lettuces and tie them up separately, 
put them into a stewpan with cold water to cover them, season with a 
little salt, and bring to the boil, then strain and rinse in cold water, 
press them well and put them into a stewpan with a pat of butter and 
fry for fifteen to twenty minutes ; then add about a quarter-pint of 
good stock, and braise them till tender, and when cooked take them 
up and cut each into four or six pieces, press these out and put them 
on fried croutons, lightly brush them over with a little warm glaze and 
use for a second-course dish or for garnishing braised meats or poultry. 



Dormers with Lettuce a la Turque 
Dormers an Laitue d la r J'nr</i" 

Take about one and a half pounds of the lean part of a loin or neck 
of mutton, free it from skin, cut it up into tiny dice with one large very 
finely-chopped raw onion, a teaspoonful of finely-chopped raw green 
parsley, a quarter of a pound of plainly boiled Carolina rice, a salt- 
spoonful of Marshall's Coralline Pepper, a little salt, two whole raw 
eggs and a quarter-pint of good Espagnol sauce (vol. i.) ; stir these 
well together, then take two or three fresh, washed and dried long 
lettuces that have been blanched only, remove the tender and best leaves, 
and dry them in a cloth, and lay out on the table ; place in each leaf 
about a dessertspoonful of the farce that has been rolled up in a little 
square piece of raw thinly-cut fat bacon, roll up the lettuce and tie 
each with a thin piece of string, being careful to well wrap in the 
ends so as to secure the farce. Put in a buttered stewpan two peeled 
and sliced onions, one carrot, a few strips of leek and celery, a bunch of 
herbs, a blade of mace, and about a dozen peppercorns tied in a piece 
of muslin. ; put the dormers in the pan, cover with a well-buttered paper, 
put the lid on the pan, place it on the stove, and let the contents fry 
for about fifteen minutes ; then add a wineglassful of sherry and half 
a pint of good-flavoured thin Brown sauce (vol. i.) ; let these simmer 
on the side of the stove for an hour and a half, during which time add 
a little more sauce as that in the pan reduces, then take up the dormers, 
remove the fat entirely from the liquor, and add a little more brown 
sauce if needed, then remove the strings, brush over with a little warm 
glaze, and dish up the dormers on a puree of potatoes that is formed 



392 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

into a border by means of a forcing bag and large rose pipe ; fill up the 
centre with some cooked slices of tomato, and serve for an entree for 
dinner or luncheon. Strain the sauce, and pour it round the base. 

Mushrooms in Fritot 
Champignons en Fritot 

Take some nice fresh cleansed mushrooms, season them with pepper, 
salt, dry mustard, and a little chopped, lean, cooked ham ; place them in 
a well-buttered saute pan, and cook them in a moderate oven for about 
fifteen minutes, then take up and place on the top of each a nicely 
fried lean slice of bacon ; fasten together by passing a strip of French 
gherkin through, and dip the two into frying batter (vol. i.) and fry them 
in clean boiling fat till a nice brown colour, turning them frequently with 
a slice while cooking; drain them on a pastry rack, dish them on a paper 
on a hot dish, garnish with bunches of crisp, well-washed and dried water- 
cress that is seasoned with a little salad oil, tarragon and chilli vinegar 
and salt, and serve while quite hot for a breakfast dish. 

Mushrooms a la Marquise 
Champignons a la Marquise 

Wash, dry, and peel some fresh mushrooms, and chop them finely, 
then to each pound put into a stewpan two ounces of butter with a finely- 
chopped eschalot and a little salt and coralline pepper ; draw these down 
on the side of the stove till into a pulp, then add two ounces of lean, 
cooked, chopped ham, a teaspoonful of fresh chopped, raw, green parsley, 
two ounces of freshly-made white breadcrumbs, and one ounce of glaze ; 
stir over the fire till it boils, then put it into a forcing bag with a plain 
pipe, and with it fill up the artichoke bottoms prepared as below. 
Arrange on a hot dish and serve for second course or luncheon. 

Artichoke Bottoms for Mushrooms a la Marquise. Put the 
tinned artichoke bottoms into a stewpan with a wineglassful of sherry, a 
teaspoonful of warm glaze, a dust of coralline pepper and castor sugar, 
and one finely-chopped eschalot ; boil altogether for about ten minutes, 
then use. 

Mushrooms a la Vanderbilt 
Champignons a la Vanderbilt 

Remove the peels and stalks from some fresh-gathered open mush- 
rooms, and thoroughly wash them in cold water, then dry carefully in a 
cloth, and for one pound put into a 'saute pan one and a half ounces of 



OF EXTRA RECIPES DRESSED VEGETABLES, ETC. 393 

fresh butter, rubbing this all over the pan ; place the mushrooms on the 
top of the butter, sprinkle over them a wineglassful of white wine, a very 
little salt, a dust of Marshall's Coralline Pepper, two ounces of fat and 
lean raw bacon that has been cut up into tiny dice shapes, a very little 
finely-chopped eschalot that has been pressed in a cloth, and a gill of 
oyster liquor ; put a buttered paper over, and stand the saute pan in a 
moderate oven for about a quarter of an hour, basting them occasionally 
with the liquor in the pan ; stamp out some little round croutons of 
bread, about two and a half inches wide and a quarter of an inch thick, 
and fry them a very pale golden colour ; spread these very thinly with 
Anchovy puree (vol. i.), and arrange them straight down the dish 
on which they are to be served; then place the mushrooms on them, 
fry in a stewpan one ounce of fine flour and half an ounce of butter till 
brown, then mix into it the liquor in which the mushrooms were cooked, 
add a wineglassful of white wine and half an ounce of glaze, and stir 
together until the sauce boils, then wring through the tammy, reboil, 
and add two dozen fresh oysters (which, if large, can be cut into two 
pieces) for each pound of mushrooms, and a saltspoonful of anchovy 
essence ; pour this all over the mushrooms and serve very hot for a 
breakfast, luncheon, or second-course dish. 

Curried Mushrooms 
Champignons en Karl 

Cut two large, peeled onions into small dice shapes, put them in a 
stewpan with one ounce of butter, a pinch of chopped bayleaf, thyme, 
parsley, and a pinch of salt ; fry till a nice golden colour, then add a 
pinch of Marshall's Coralline Pepper, a saltspoonful of curry powder, the 
strained juice of one lemon, two chopped fresh mushrooms, one ounce of 
glaze, a teaspoonful of chutney, the same of curry paste, half a pint of 
water, and the liquor from a tin of button mushrooms ; boil till tender, 
add three sheets of Marshall's Leaf Gelatine, and when this is dissolved 
rub the whole through a tammy ; add the button mushrooms from the 
tin, and set on ice till wanted, then use for a second-course vegetable 
or luncheon dish or for garnishing cold entrees, &c. 

Braised Spanish Onions a la Julienne 

Oignons d'Espagne Uralses d la Julienne 

Peel some Spanish onions and put them into enough cold water to 
cover them, bring to the boil, then take up, pour a little cold water over 



394 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

them, and let them drain ; then put them into a clean stewpan with two 
ounces of butter, two or three slices of carrots and turnips, a bunch of 
herbs (thyme, parsley, bayleaf), and six or eight peppercorns ; cover the 
onions with a buttered paper, put the lid on the pan and fry for fifteen 
to twenty minutes ; then add about half a pint of stock, and braise them 
in the oven for about three hours, adding more stock as that in the pan 
reduces ; when cooked, dish up the onions, and glaze them over with a 
little warm glaze, and garnish the top with Julienne-shaped vegetables 
(vol. i. page 81) and picked and blanched parsley ; remove the fat from 
the braising gravy; mix with it two tablespoonfuls of Brown sauce 
(vol. i.), and boil these up together ; then pour round the onions, and 
serve for a second course or with a remove, or for a luncheon dish. 

Peas a l'Alexandra 
Petits Pois d V Alexandra 

Take one quart of perfectly freshly gathered shelled peas for four to 
six persons, and put them in a stewpan with the pulp of four large ripe 
tomatoes that have been rubbed through a fine wire sieve ; add two 
ounces of fresh butter, two finely-chopped eschalots and a good pinch of 
finely-chopped mint and one and a half ounces of fat and lean bacon that 
is cut in tiny dice shapes ; cover the stewpan down, and let the peas 
simmer gently for about fifteen to twenty minutes, occasionally shaking 
them about. When tender, add an ounce of fine flour which has been 
mixed till quite smooth with half a gill of good cream, and let the con- 
tents boil for a few minutes ; then dish the peas up in the centre of a 
border of red Pilau rice (see recipe), and serve for a luncheon or second- 
course dish in the place of game or poultry. 

Peas a la Paysanne 
Petits Pois a la Paysanne 

Take a quart of shelled, young, freshly-gathered peas and put them 
into a clean stewpan with three ounces of butter, a sprig of fresh mint, 
two finely-chopped eschalots, and a sprig of fresh parsley, tying these 
together in a piece of muslin. Take the heart of a nice, fresh, well-washed 
and dried crisp lettuce, cut it into fine shreds, sprinkle this in with the 
peas, season with a pinch of salt, a dust of white pepper, and a pinch of 
castor sugar ; put the cover on the pan and let the contents simmer for 
about half an hour, during which time they require to be occasionally 
shaken. When tender, remove the herbs in the muslin, then take half 



OF EXTRA RECIPES DRESSED VEGETABLES, ETC. 395 

an ounce of fine sifted flour and mix into it four tablespoonfuls of very 
thick cream, and strain on to the peas, bring the contents to the boil, 
then turn out on to a hot dish and serve for luncheon, or with a remove,, 
or for a second-course vegetable. Tinned or bottled peas can be used. 

Peas a la Venitienne 
Petits I'<> is d la Venitienne 

Take some shelled peas and plunge them into boiling water with a 
bunch of mint tied in a piece of muslin ; season the water with a little salt, 
sugar, and a tiny piece of soda ; boil the peas gently for fifteen to twenty 
minutes, then strain off and mix them with the puree as below ; replace 
them in a stewpan, bring them to the boil, then turn them out on to a 
dish, surround them with croutons of fried bread and cooked slices of 
fresh tomato, and serve for a dressed vegetable, or they can also be served 
for a second-course or luncheon dish. 

Puree for Peas A la Venitiexne. Fry four sliced onions in one and 
a half ounces of butter without discolouring, then mix with them two 
gills of cream, and let them simmer till tender; then rub them through 
a tammy, and use. 

Cutlets of Peas a la Cornte de Paris 
Cotelettes de 1 } oU d la Gomte de Paris 

Prepare half a pint of thick Soubise sauce (vol. i.), thicken it with 
three raw yolks of eggs, the juice of half a lemon, and pass through the 
tammy, carefully mix in half a pint of Cooked peas, and put away to cool, 
then divide the mixture into quantities of about a dessertspoonful each ; 
roll each in flour and dip in well-beaten-up whole egg, and then in 
freshly-made white breadcrumbs, and form in cutlet shapes, and fry in 
boiling fat till [a pretty golden colour. Dish them on a border of 
potato (vol. i.), or they can be dished on a crouton of bread ; place 
little strips of tongue and truffle alternately on the end of each cutlet 
to imitate the bone. Serve with thin Soubise sauce (vol. i.) round,, 
and garnish with peas that are mixed with a little butter and a dust ot 
castor sugar. If using the tinned peas, they may be stood in the bain- 
marie to get hot, then strained and used. 

Tomatoes a l'Americaine 
Tomates d V Americaine 

Take some small ripe tomatoes (allowing one to each person), peel 
them and take out the cores, remove the pips by means of a vegetable 



396 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

scoop, then fill up the inside with a Mayonnaise mixture, using a forcing 
bag and pipe for the purpose ; turn the tomatoes over, and mask 
the uncut side with a little liquid aspic jelly ; put them aside till cold, 
then dish up on a border of aspic jelly, arrange sprigs of tarragon and 
chervil between each tomato, and pour a Tomato puree (vol. i.) round 
the dish and serve for luncheon or ball supper. 

Mayonnaise Mixture for Farcing Tomatoes A l'Americaine. 
Take twelve olives, remove the stones and chop them up, add six boned 
and chopped anchovies, four hard-boiled yolks of eggs that have been 
rubbed through a sieve, a teaspoonful of chopped fresh tarragon and chervil, 
a half-pint of aspic jelly, and two large tablespoonfuls of Mayonnaise 
sauce (vol. i.). Stir on ice until the mixture begins to set ; then put into 
a forcing bag with a plain pipe and use. Any of the mixture that is 
left may be used for garnishing the centre of the border of aspic jelly 
after it is turned out. 

Tomatoes a l'Auban 
Tomates d VAuban 

Remove the stems from some small tomatoes, scoop out the pips, 
and season the inside with a little salt, coralline pepper and chopped 
French capers. Take six or eight boned Christiania anchovies, pound 
them with two raw yolks of eggs, two ounces of good butter, one table- 
spoonful of Tomato sauce (vol. i.), and rub them through a wire sieve, 
then mix with it one large cleansed and chopped capsicum, two ounces 
of freshly-made white breadcrumbs, a teaspoonful of finely-chopped 
raw parsley and six prepared herring roes, that are cut up into small 
square pieces ; mix up into a paste, divide into portions of about the size 
of half a large walnut and put into the seasoned tomatoes, sprinkle over 
the top of each a little browned breadcrumbs ; put the tomatoes on a 
buttered saute pan or baking tin, and cook in a moderate oven for about 
fifteen minutes. Then take up, arrange the tomatoes on a hot dish, 
and serve while quite hot for a breakfast, second-course or savoury 
dish. 

Tomatoes a la Faubert 

Tomates d la Faubert 

Take some small ripe tomatoes, peel them, and remove the pips with 
a small vegetable scoop, fill up the space thus formed with cold cooked 
chicken, or any white meat cut in little dice shapes; season them with 
salt, white pepper, chopped turned olives and eschalot, and cover this 
with finely-shredded lettuce ; place the tomatoes in a stewpan with two 



OF EXTRA RECIPES DRESSED VEGETABLES,. ETC. 397 

ounces of butter and two tablespoonfuls of thick cream, put the cover on 
the pan, and let them cook on the side of the stove for about ten to 
fifteen minutes. Take one large well-washed crisp lettuce, and one 
pound of sorrel (which can be had in tins), and cut both up into fine 
shreds, put two ounces of butter in a stewpan, and then add the lettuce 
and sorrel, season with a little chopped parsley, coralline pepper and 
salt, and one gill of cream, and let these simmer gently on the side of 
the stove with the pan covered down for about fifteen minutes, then mix 
in the juice of half a lemon, with two ounces of cooked beetroot that is 
cut in little dice shapes, shake up together and use. Dish up the 
tomatoes on round croutons of fried bread straight down the dish, mix 
the liquor from them with the puree from the vegetables, pour it round 
the sides of the tomatoes, and serve hot for a luncheon or second-course 
dish. 

Tomatoes a la Graham 
Tomates d la Graham 

Take some raw ripe tomatoes, cut them in halves, remove the seeds, 
season the tomatoes with a little salt and coralline pepper and a little 
grated Parmesan cheese, and by means of a forcing bag and plain pipe 
fill up the insides with a puree of potato (vol. i.), close up the tomatoes 
into their natural form, place a tiny piece of butter on each, put them in 
a well-buttered saute pan, cover with a buttered paper, and cook the 
tomatoes in a moderate oven for about fifteen minutes, then dish up and 
serve while quite hot with a remove or as a luncheon or second-course 
dish. 

Tomatoes a la Mentone 
Tomates a la Mentone 

Take some small, raw, ripe tomatoes, peel them and remove the pips, 
season them inside with salad oil, tarragon vinegar, a little chopped 
eschalot, and chopped cooked ham or tongue, and fill them up with a 
mixture prepared as below,' then stand them away in the ice cave for about 
half an hour, or on pounded ice for one hour, before using. Have some 
aspic jelly lightly coloured with Marshall's Sap Green, and when set, cut 
it out in rings, allowing one for each tomato, and fill up the centre of 
this ring of aspic with a macedoine of cooked vegetables that have been 
seasoned with a little oil and tarragon vinegar, or a little lettuce salad ; 
place one tomato on the top of each ring of jelly, sprinkling over a little 
finely-chopped parsley, or tarragon and chervil, and serve for an entree, 
or for second course, or for any cold collation, such as a ball supper, &c. 



o98 MRS, A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

Mixture for filling up the Tomatoes. For twelve tomatoes, take 
half a pint of stiffly-whipped cream, mix with it a gill and a half of 
whipped aspic jelly, season with a dust of Marshall's Coralline Pepper, 
a tablespoonful of tarragon vinegar, a pinch of castor sugar, a dessert- 
spoonful of grated horseradish, and a quarter of a pound of cooked 
chicken, or white meat, that is cut up in very small dice shapes, two 
chopped olives, and one French gherkin ; mix up on ice, and then put 
into a forcing bag with a plain pipe, and use. 

Tomatoes a la Wellington 
Tomates d la Wellington 

Take two or three raw ripe tomatoes, cut them in slices about half 
an inch thick, season them with coralline pepper, and salt, and place a 
very thin slice of raw bacon on the top ; put them in a buttered saute 
pan and cook them in a quick oven for twelve to fifteen minutes, then 
sprinkle with a little chopped parsley, and use for breakfast or luncheon 
dish, or for garnishing purposes. 

Tomato Salad a l'Anglaise 

Salads de Tomates a l'Anglaise 

Slice some raw ripe tomatoes, season them with salt, chopped 
eschalot, parsley, coralline pepper, salad oil, and French vinegar ; 
arrange them en couronne on a dish, and hand them with joints or 
roasts for dinner or luncheon, or with any hot or cold meats. 

Potatoes a l'Albert 
Pommes de Terre d V Albert 

Take some new potatoes, cleanse and then peel them into olive shapes, 
using a garnishing knife for the purpose ; put them into cold water with 
& pinch of salt, bring them to the boil, and let them simmer till cooked 




without breaking. Dish them up in a pile on a hot dish, and pour over 
them some Tomato butter (vol. i.), sprinkle with a little chopped raw 
green parsley, and serve for dinner* or luncheon as a dressed vegetable. 



OF EXTRA RECIPES DRESSED VEGETABLES, ETC. 399 

Potatoes a TAllemande 
Pommes de Terre d V Allemande 

Cut some cold cooked potatoes in slices about a quarter of an inch 
thick, and stamp them out with a plain round cutter about the size of a 
shilling piece. Butter the dish on which the potatoes are to be served, 
and arrange them in a circle on the bottom ; sprinkle with a little finely- 
chopped, lean, cooked ham or tongue, a little chopped parsley, pepper and 
salt, and then mask them over with creamy Veloute sauce (vol. i.), then 
sprinkle them again with a little cooked potato that has been rubbed 
through a wire sieve, place the dish in a baking-tin containing a little 
hot water, and place in a quick oven to cook for fifteen to twenty minutes 
till a nice brown colour, then remove from the oven, sprinkle over the 
potatoes some chopped parsley, and serve hot for a second course or 
luncheon dish. 

Potatoes a la Norve'gienne 
Pommes de Terre d la Norvegienne 

Cut some cooked mealy potatoes into slices, place them in a buttered 
dish on which they are to be served, sprinkle over them a little salt and 
coralline pepper, grated Parmesan cheese, and a little cream, place the 
dish in a deep tin containing boiling water, and put in a quick oven for 
about fifteen minutes ; then take up, mask the top with Cheese puree 
(see recipe), then brown with a red-hot salamander, sprinkle with a little 
raw chopped parsley and coralline pepper, and serve on a dish, on a 
paper or folded napkin, for luncheon or second course. 

Potatoes a la Santage 
Pommes de Terre d la 8<tnt<i<i>' 

Take some creamy puree of potatoes (see recipe), and by means of 
a forcing bag with a large rose pipe arrange it in a pile in the centre of 
a dish and cover it over with potatoes that have been cut very thin, 
long, and coiled, by means of a spiral cutter, and then fried in two fats ; 
the first fat must be quite hot but not boiling, to cook the potatoes till 
tender, the second should be boiling so that it will brown and crisp them ; 
garnish the dish with picked and fried parsley and serve. 

Potatoes a la Theodora 

I'< mimes de Terre d la Theodora 

Plainly boil four or five potatoes, and, when cooked, rub them 
through a fine wire sieve ; mix with them into a smooth paste a little 



400 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

salt, a pat of fresh butter, and some cream, and put the mixture into a 
forcing bag with a rose pipe ; force it out on to the dish in which it 
is to be served, and garnish with cooked cucumber peas (see recipe). 
Serve as a second-course vegetable or for luncheon, &c. 



Potatoes with Cheese 
Pommes de Terre an Frontage 

Take two pounds of plainly boiled potatoes, when cooked rub them 
through a wire sieve, and mix them with one ounce of grated Parmesan, 
and one ounce of Gruyere cheese, two ounces of butter, enough cream to 
make the mixture into a smooth paste, season with a tiny dust of cayenne 
pepper, a little salt, and stir on the fire till the mixture boils ; then dish 
up in a pile on a hot dish and pour over the potato a nice Cheese Cream 
sauce (see recipe), brown with a red-hot salamander, and serve for 
luncheon or dinner as a second-course dish. This puree is also nice to 
use for garnishing entrees, &c. 

Potato Souffle's a la Christina 
Souffles de Pommes de Terre d la Christina 

Wash and bake four large potatoes in their skins till quite tender, 
remove the insides and rub through a wire sieve, mix in a dust of coralline 
pepper, a teaspoonful of finely-chopped raw green parsley, one ounce of 
Parmesan cheese, two ounces of warm butter, two raw yolks of eggs, two 
tablespoonfuls of stiffly- whipped cream, and four whites of eggs that have 
been whipped stiff with a pinch of salt ; stir lightly together, and put the 
mixture into well-buttered china souffle cases, sprinkle with a few 
browned breadcrumbs, put a tiny bit of butter on the top of each, and 
bake in a quick oven for about fifteen minutes ; then take up, sprinkle 
with a little finely-chopped raw green parsley, and serve on a hot dish, 
on a paper or napkin, for a vegetable with a remove or for a second- 
course or luncheon dish. 

Potato and Onion Salad 
Salade de Pommes de Terre et Oignons 

Cut six or eight plainly boiled, cold, mealy potatoes into slices, and 
if the potatoes are not nice round ones, stamp out the slices with a plain 
round cutter. Take three or four very finely-sliced peeled onions, using 
Marshall's Vegetable Slicer for the purpose, and season them with salad 
oil, tarragon vinegar, salt, grated Parmesan cheese, coralline pepper and 



OF EXTRA RECIPES DRESSED VEGETABLES, ETC. 401 

finely-chopped raw green parsley, arrange a layer on the dish on which 
the salad is to be served, place on this a layer of the potatoes, then 
another of the onions, and continue this till the dish is full ; cover the 
top entirely with stiffly-whipped cream that is seasoned with a little salt, 
using a forcing bag and large rose pipe for the purpose, sprinkle here 
and there a little chopped parsley and coralline pepper, and serve as a 
dressed vegetable or for any cold collations. 



Saratoga Potatoes 
Pommes de Terre a la Saratoga 

Take some washed and peeled potatoes and cut them in thin slices 
with Marshall's Vegetable Slicer ; dry them in a clean cloth ; lay them 
in a frying-basket (but not overlapping each other) and plunge them 
into hot frying fat, which must cover them completely ; cook till tender, 
then take up the potatoes and allow the fat to boil up again; then 
plunge the basketful in if the fat is enough to cover, till the slices are 
crisp and a pale golden colour; shake from the fat, season with salt, 
sprinkle with a little chopped parsley, and serve. The above may also 
be served cold ; and they may also be sprinkled over with a little castor 
sugar and finely-chopped lemon-peel and served as a sweet. They will 
keep some time, and can be put to warm in the oven when wanted 
far use. 

Basket with Saratoga Potatoes 

Gorbeille aux Pommes de Terre a la Saratoga 

Take a large fancy corbeille mould and line the insides of the top 
and bottom portions about a quarter of an inch thick with short paste 




(vol. i.), pressing the paste well to the moulds so as to take the shape ; 
place inside the paste a buttered paper and fill up the centres with rice 



D D 



402 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

or any other dry grain ; put them to bake in a moderate oven till a nice 
golden colour, which will take about forty minutes ; then take up, 
remove the papers and grain, return the moulds to the oven till the paste 
is quite dry inside, then put them in the screen or oven till set, then turn 
out the two parts of the basket ; place the top part of the case on to the 
foot as in engraving, fastening them together with white of egg that has 
been mixed with a little flour and coloured with a little of Marshall's 
Saffron Yellow ; arrange it on a dish on a paper or napkin ; fill up the 
centre with Saratoga potatoes (see recipe) and serve for a second-course 
or luncheon dish. 

Olive Potatoes 
Pommes de Terre Olives 

Cut some raw peeled potatoes into quarters and form them into olive 
shapes, as shown in engraving, and put them into cold water with a little 
salt ; bring to the boil, then strain and rinse the potatoes with warm 
water and dry them in a clean cloth. Put in a tin or saute pan some 



boiling clarified butter (vol. i.), place the potatoes into it, put into the 
oven, and let it remain .there till the potatoes are a nice golden colour ; 
then drain and sprinkle with a little finely-chopped raw green parsley, 
and serve with steak, fillets of beef, salmon, &c, or as a separate vege- 
table for luncheon or dinner. 

New Potatoes Fried 
Pommes de. Terre Nouvelles Frites 

Cleanse and wash well in cold water some new potatoes, cut in 
rounds about one and a half to two inches in diameter, and about half 
an inch thick, and drain and rub them well in a clean dry cloth. Have 
a stewpan or frying kettle with sufficient clean hot fat to cover the 
potatoes, and put them to fry gently over the fire till tender, when they 
should be a pretty golden colour ; take up and shake well from the fat, 
sprinkle with a little salt and finely-chopped parsley, then dish up on a 
hot dish on a dish-paper and serve for dinner or luncheon. 



OF EXTRA RECIPES DRESSED VEGETABLES, ETC. 403 

New Potatoes a la Creme 
Pommes de Terre Nouvelles d la Grdme 

Scrape or peel some new potatoes and trim them into regular shapes, 
wash them well in cold water, put them into a stewpan with a little 
salt, a little bunch of mint, and sufficient water to cover them ; bring 
to the boil, and let them simmer for about fifteen minutes, then remove 
the mint and strain the potatoes carefully so that they do not break, and 
let them dry on the side of the stove for a few minutes ; dish them up 
in a pile on a hot dish, pour over them some cream prepared as below 
and garnish with chopped raw parsley and chopped cooked ox tongue 
arranged in layers. Serve for luncheon or as a second-course vegetable, 
or with a remove for a dinner party. 

Cream for serving over Potatoes. Put into a stewpan one ounce 
of fine flour, one ounce of butter, and a pinch of salt, and mix together 
till smooth, add half a pint of thin cream, and stir over the fire till it 
boils ; tammy, then pour over the potatoes. 

Potato Loaves 
Pains de Pommes de Terre 

Prepare the potatoes as for Croquettes (vol. i.), and when cold roll 
up with a little flour and form into the shape of tiny cottage loaves, 
making each sufficient for one person ; well brush them over with the 
whole egg beaten up, place them on a buttered tin, and bake in a quick 
oven for fifteen minutes, and serve on a hot dish on a fancy paper for 
luncheon or as a vegetable for dinner. They should be a pretty golden 
colour when ready. 

Potatoes Breadcrumbed with Tomato Puree 
Pommes de Terre Panees mC Puree de Tomates 

Cut half-a-dozen medium-sized, cold, boiled potatoes in rounds about 
the size of half-a-crown and a quarter of an inch thick, steep these in 
warm butter, season with a pinch of salt and white pepper and a little 
finely-chopped parsley, dip them in whole beaten-up raw egg, and then 
in freshly-made breadcrumbs, put them in a buttered tin or saute pan, 
and bake them for fifteen to twenty minutes to take a nice golden colour ; 
or they may be fried. Cut up four good-sized tomatoes into a stewpan 
with two ounces of butter, half a chopped eschalot, and a little pepper 
and salt, and draw them down steadily on the side of the stove for about 
fifteen minutes ; add three or four drops of liquid carmine, pass through 

D D 2 



404 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

a fine hair sieve, make hot in the bain-marie, mix in a pinch of 
chopped tarragon and chervil ; arrange the prepared potatoes straight 
down a hot dish, pour the tomato puree on the bottom of the dish, 
and serve quite hot for dinner or luncheon as a dressed vegetable. 

Crepinettes of Salsifies 
Crepinettes mix Salsifis 

Wash and peel some fresh salsifies and cut them in lengths of about 
one inch, put them into cold water with a little salt and lemon juice till 
ready to cook, then boil them steadily for two and a half to three hours, 
seasoning the water with lemon juice and salt ; when cooked strain and 
press from the water and rub through a fine wire sieve, and to each half 
pound of puree add three raw yolks of eggs and a teaspoonful of strained 
lemon juice ; put this into a stewpan and stir on the stove till the mix- 
ture thickens and clings to the spoon, but do not let it boil, then mix in 
a teaspoonful of finely-chopped parsley ; put some raw bearded oysters 
on a plate and season them with a little lemon juice, a dust of Marshall's 
Coralline Pepper, and chopped parsley. Put the puree of salsifies into a 
forcing bag with a plain pipe and completely mask each oyster with it 
about a quarter of an inch thick, then wrap each portion in a little 
piece of cleaned pork caul, using just sufficient to cover in the puree, 
then roll each into fine flour, dip into whole beaten-up egg and fry in 
clean boiling fat (either lard or mutton fat can be used) for about five 
minutes over a brisk fire, when they should be a pretty golden colour ; 
take up on a pastry rack and sprinkle lightly over with a little finely- 
chopped parsley, then dish up on a dish-paper and serve hot for a second- 
course or luncheon dish. 

Souffle" of Turnips 

Souffle de Navets 

Take eight or ten freshly-peeled turnips and cut them in slices, put 
these into cold water with a little salt and bring to the boil, then strain 
and rinse, and put them into boiling water seasoned with salt to cook 
till tender ; strain them again, press them dry, and rub through a fine 
wire sieve. Put into another stewpan three ounces of butter, four ounces 
of fine flour, a saltspoonful of salt, a little white pepper, five raw yolks 
of eggs, a quarter-pint of cream and one and a half gills of milk ; stir 
these together over the fire with a wooden spoon till the mixture 
boils, then add two tablespoonfuls more milk, mix in two and a half 
gills of the puree of turnips, and add six whites of eggs that have been 



OF EXTRA RECIPES DRESSED VEGETABLES, ETC. 405 

whipped stiff, with a pinch of salt ; stir all together and put into a 
buttered souffle dish that is surrounded by a band of buttered kitchen 
paper, about three inches deeper than the dish, sprinkle over the top of 
the souffle a few browned breadcrumbs, put the dish on a baking-tin in 
a moderate oven, and cook for forty-five to fifty minutes ; then take up, 
remove the paper, put a folded napkin round, sprinkle with coralline 
pepper and raw chopped parsley, and serve on a hot dish on a paper or 
napkin, for a second-course or luncheon dish or as a vegetable with a 
remove. 

Vegetable Marrow a la Francaise 
Gowrge d la Moelle d Id Francaise 

Peel and remove the seeds from the vegetable marrow and cut it out 
in rounds ; put these into a stewpan with a little salt and enough cold 
water to cover them ; bring to the boil, then strain and rinse in cold 
water ; put them into a stewpan with the juice of half a lemon, two 
ounces of butter, and a quarter of a pint of light stock ; let it simmer 
gently for about twenty minutes, and then take up the vegetable; put 
two raw yolks of eggs into a basin with half a gill of cream and a pinch 
of salt, mix together, stir on to the liquor in which the marrow was 
cooked, put it into a stewpan and stir over the fire until it thickens ; 
dish up the marrow on fried croutons, and strain the sauce over it ; 
sprinkle with a little chopped parsley and serve.. These can also be 
served for a second-course dish. 

Vegetable Marrow with. Pine Herbs 
Gowrge d la Moelle cmx Fines Ilerbes 

Peel and take the seeds from the marrow and cut it in small neat 
pieces ; put it in a pan to cook, with plenty of boiling water and a little 
salt, for about fifteen or twenty minutes ; take it up with a slice and 
drain on a cloth or sieve. Put about one and a half ounces of good 
butter in a little saucepan ; let it melt, then mix into it a little piece 
of finely-chopped eschalot and the juice pressed from it, and a little 
chopped tarragon, chervil, or parsley, and a tiny pinch of mignonette 
pepper ; pour over the marrow and serve hot. 

Puree of Vegetables with. Butter 
Puree de Legumes cm Beurre 

Peel and steam one pound of potatoes, and when they are cooked 
pass them through a wire sieve ; put -the puree into a stewpan with one 



406 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

and a half ounces of butter, a pinch of salt and white pepper, and a 
quarter of a pint of cream, and mix well together till quite smooth. 
Take one nice small cabbage, trim it, wash it well, and split it into 
quarters, remove the stalk, and place it in a stewpan with enough cold 
water to cover it, with a pinch of salt and a tiny bit of soda ; bring it 
to the boil, drain it and rinse it in cold water, then put it into boiling 
water, with a pinch of salt, to cook for about twenty minutes to half an 
hour, according to the size of the cabbage ; take it up, drain it, and press 
the water thoroughly from it, and rub it through a fine wire sieve. Mix 
the purees of potato and cabbage well together, and make it hot in the 
pan in the bain-marie ; dish it up in a pile, and garnish round it with 
strips of turnip cut up as used in Julienne soup, and which have been put 
in cold water with a little salt, and boiled till tender ; melt a little piece 
of butter in a stewpan, and pour it over the puree and shredded turnip, 
and serve whilst hot, either as a vegetable with a joint, or as a second- 
course dish or for luncheon. 

Vegetables a la Jardiniere 

Legumes a la Jardiniere 

Make quite hot some puree of turnips (vol. i.), and with it form 
a border on the dish on which it is to be served, and fill up the 
centre with a macedoine of vegetables; if the prepared macedoine is 
used, the tin should be opened, the contents made hot in the bain-marie, 
the water strained from it, and the vegetables tossed up together with 
an ounce of warm butter, a tiny piece of sugar, and four large table- 
spoonfuls of thick Soubise sauce (vol. i.). If using fresh vegetables, 
they should be plainly boiled, then dressed in the same way. Serve 
hot as a luncheon or second-course dish. 

Little Creams of Vegetables a la Potsdam 
Petites Cremes de Legumes a la Potsdam 

Cut separately the red part of three or four new carrots and turnips, 
half a small cucumber, and about one and a half dozen French beans 
into very tiny dice shapes ; put the carrot and turnip into separate 
stewpans, cover, them with cold water, season with a little salt, and 
bring to the boil ; then strain off and rinse in cold water, put again into 
boiling water and cook for about half an hour till tender, then strain off, 
rinse in cold water, and let them remain separate till cold ; put the 
cucumber into a stewpan, cover It with cold water, add a little salt, 



OF EXTRA RECIPES DRESSED VEGETABLES, ETC. 407 

bring to the boil, and cook till tender, then strain and rinse in cold 
water ; put the beans into boiling water with a little salt and soda, and 
boil till tender, then strain and set aside till cold. Take of these vege- 
tables sufficient to make half a pint when mixed together, and leave the 
remainder for garnishing purposes ; put the former into a pan with a 
quarter-pint of thick Mayonnaise sauce (vol. i.), a quarter-pint of 
whipped cream, a half-pint of liquid aspic jelly, a pinch of chopped 
parsley, chervil, and tarragon, and a tablespoonful of tarragon vinegar ; 
stir these on ice till they begin to set, then pour into a square Neapolitan 
box, put this into a charged ice cave and let it remain there for about 
one hour, during which time turn the box occasionally. When suffi- 




ciently frozen, dip the box in cold water and turn out the cream on to a 
clean cloth, then with a round plain cutter about one and a half inches 
in diameter stamp out the creams, cutting them straight through the 
block, occasionally dipping the cutter into cold water while using it. 
Arrange these, the smoothest side uppermost, on an entree or flat dish, 
allowing one to each person, then place about a teaspoonful of the 
vegetables, set aside for garnishing (first seasoning these with a little 
salad oil, tarragon and chilli vinegar) on the top of each cream, and 
serve round the dish some Tomato mayonnaise (vol. i.). This forms a 
pretty dish for any cold collation, second course, or for race meetings, 
luncheons, &c, and the quantities given above are sufficient for eight 
to ten persons. 

Iced Curried Vegetables 
Legumes en Kari glacees 

Take four peeled onions, cut up in dice shapes, put them in a stewpan 
with two ounces of butter, and fry for about fifteen minutes till a nice 
golden colour, then add a pinch of chopped bayleaf and thyme, one ounce 
of glaze, one ounce of Marshall's Creme de Riz, the strained juice of one 
lemon, a teaspoonful of chutney, a teaspoonful of Marshall's Curry 
Powder, a pinch of salt and coralline pepper, one and a half pints of good 
flavoured stock, and four or five sheets of Marshall's Gelatine, and stir 



408 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

till boiling, then simmer till tender and rub through a wire sieve, add 
a quarter-pint of thick whipped cream and mix in it a pint of any 
nice cooked macedoine of vegetables, such as carrots, turnips, French 
beans, &c. Place in a basin on some ice, and when quite cold use 
as a dressed vegetable or for a second-course or luncheon dish, or for 
serving in the centre of any cold entrees either of meat or fish. The 
prepared macedoine can be used for the pint of mixed vegetables. 



OF EXTRA RECIPES SALADS AND SANDWICHES 409 



CHAPTER X 

SALADS AND SANDWICHES 

(See also Chapter IX) 

FANCY SALADS 

Salad a l'AIbany 
Salade a V Albany 

Cut some raw, ripe tomatoes into thin slices, then cut an equal quan- 
tity of plainly boiled potatoes about a quarter of an inch thick, and stamp 
them out with a small, heart-shape cutter ; put each on separate dishes, 
season them with salad oil, strained lemon juice, coralline pepper, salt, 
finely-chopped lean cooked ham or tongue, a little eschalot, and French 
capers. Cut two sticks of well-washed, crisp, fresh celery into lengths 
of about one inch, dry them, and season them with Tomato mayonnaise 
(vol. i. page 211) ; dish up the celery in a pile on the dish on which the 
salad is to be served, arrange the potatoes and tomatoes all round the 
edge of it, place here and there some little sprigs of picked chervil and 
some Christiania anchovies, and serve for luncheon, second course, ball 
supper, &c. 

Salad a 1'Aniericaine 
Sulade d V Americaine 

Take- one or two fresh heads of chicory and lay it in plenty of clean 
cold water for three or four hours, then take the best parts of the 
chicory and cut it into shreds about two inches long, wash it again, and 
shake it well till quite dry, then put it into a basin and mix with it half 
a pound of very finely-cut slices about one inch square of good Cheddar 
cheese ; dish up in a pile on a flat dish, pour over it the sauce prepared 
as below ; arrange all round the base very thinly-cut rounds of raw onion 
that is seasoned with coralline pepper, salt, and finely-chopped parsley 
and capers, and at the four corners of the dish place nice groups of 
cooked beetroot that is cut in little dice-shapes and seasoned with salad 
oil, and serve the salad for a second-course, luncheon, or ball-supper 
dish. 



410 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

Sauce for Salad a l'Americaine. Mix well together one raw 
yolk of egg, a dessertspoonful of mixed English mustard, a saltspoonful 
of salt, a teaspoonful of French mustard, half a gill of tarragon vinegar, 
a good pinch of ground black pepper, a quarter-pint of salad oil and a 
teaspoonful of finely-chopped raw green parsley, and one small bottle of 
the prepared crayfish bodies or prawns strained and cut up into halves. 
Stir well together, then use. 

American Corn Salad 

Salade de Mais cl V Americaine 

Remove the outer leaves and sticky part from two or three young 
heads of corn and put them into a stewpan into boiling milk and water 
that is seasoned with salt and a pat of butter, just bring to the boil, 
remove any scum and simmer it gently for fifty to sixty minutes, then 
take up and drain them on a hair sieve, put a clean wet cloth over the 
corn and leave till cold ; then place the corns on a flat dish, season them 
with pepper and salt, mask them with the prepared sauce and serve for 
second course or for any cold collation. 

Sauce for American Corn Salad. Mix three raw yolks of eggs 
into a quarter-pint of salad oil, add to it a teaspoonful of raw English 
mustard, a tablespoonful of tarragon vinegar, twelve raw oysters that 
have been pounded and rubbed through a sieve, a good dust of coralline 
pepper, a gill of stiffly whipped cream and one finely-chopped onion ; 
mix all together and use. 

Salad a rAncienne 
Salade a VAncienne 

Cut a good handful of well-washed sorrel into fine shreds, and mix it 
with a large cabbage lettuce, also cut into shreds, three sliced eschalots, 
eighteen finely-sliced long radishes, one large minced sour apple, twelve 
boned Christiana anchovies cut into halves, a quarter-pint of the prepared 
cooked crayfish, seasoned with salad oil and tarragon vinegar; dish up 
the salad in a pile, pour the sauce over, garnish the dish with slices 
of hard-boiled eggs, capers, gherkins, and farced olives, and serve for 
luncheon or for any cold collation. 

Sauce for Salad A l'Ancienne. Mix two ounces of chopped lax 
with a quarter-pint of Mayonnaise sauce (vol. i.), a dessertspoonful of 
anchovy essence, half a wineglassful of French vinegar, a good dust of 
coralline pepper, a quarter-pint of whipped cream, a teaspoonful of 
chopped chervil and tarragon, a pinch of castor sugar, and a tablespoon- 
ful of chilli vinegar ; stir up well together, and use. 



OF EXTRA RECIPES SALADS AND SANDWICHES 411 

Salad a l'Anvers 
Salade d l'Anvers 

Take the best parts of two well-washed and dried crisp fresh lettuces, 
pick them into pieces about an inch in length, put them into a basin 
and sprinkle over them half a pound of cold cooked chicken or other 
white meat that is cut in shreds an inch in length, a quarter-pound of 
lean cooked ham or tongue also shredded, three capsicums that have 
been split and the seeds taken out and then cut into fine shreds, two 
sprigs of fresh green tarragon cut in the same way, a tablespoonful of 
picked chervil leaves, and mix all well with the prepared sauce. Dish 
up in a pile, garnish round the base of the dish with cold boiled pota- 
toes (that have been cut in slices a quarter-inch thick, then stamped out 
with a plain round cutter about one and a half inches in diameter) ; 
season these with salad oil, finely-chopped eschalot, coralline pepper, 
a little salt and tarragon vinegar, and serve the salad as a second-course 
dish in place of game or poultry, or for a ball-supper dish. 

Sauce for Salad a l'Anvers. Put two raw yolks of eggs into 
a basin with a saltspoonful of salt and the same of raw mustard, a pinch 
of coralline pepper, a saltspoonful of castor sugar, and the same of 
Marshall's Curry Powder ; mix into this by degrees a quarter-pint of 
salad oil, one large tablespoonful of French tarragon vinegar, the same 
of chilli vinegar, one very finely-chopped eschalot, two tablespoonfuls of 
thickly-whipped cream, and use. 

Apple Salad a la Saint Florentine 

Sulfide de Pommes d la Saint Florentine 

Take one pound of nice sound peeled apples, and one pound of ripe 
tomatoes, and cut them into round, thin slices ; season them with a little 
salt, salad oil, coralline pepper, and strained lemon juice, and arrange a 
layer of each on the dish on which the salad is to be served; then arrange 
a layer of boned Christiania anchovies (that have been seasoned with salad 
oil), then another layer of apples and another of tomatoes, and so on until 
the dish is three-parts full ; then, on the top, place a thick layer of hard- 
boiled yolk of egg that has been rubbed through a wire sieve; sprinkle 
over the egg some nice large French capers, some slices of French 
gherkin, and Spanish olives that are cut in little dice shapes ; sprinkle 
all over with salad oil, garnish the corners of the dish with shreds of 
cooked beetroot that is seasoned with salad oil and coralline pepper, and 
serve for any cold collation. 



41 2 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

An.ch.ovy Salad a la Oareme 

Salade d'Anchois a la Careme 

Peel a cooked beetroot, and cut it up into very fine slices ; sprinkle 
these with salad oil, a little common brown vinegar, a little salt, and 
white pepper ; place them on the dish on which they are to be served, 
cover with hard-boiled eggs (that are sliced and seasoned in the same 
way as the beetroot), lay on this some long, thin strips of boned Chris- 
tiania anchovies, seasoned with a little salad oil, place round the base of 
the dish alternate bunches of French capers, small dice shapes of peeled 
cucumber, and some finely-shredded crisp lettuce, seasoning with a little 
salad oil and tarragon vinegar ; and serve as a second-course dish or for 
luncheon, &c. 

Salad a la Baltique 
Salade a la Baltique 

Take some Kriiger's marinaded fillets of herrings, allowing one to 
each person ; lay them on a plate, and season them with salad oil ; cut a 
large, well-washed and dried lettuce into fine shreds, place it on the 
dish on which the salad is to be served, and arrange the fillets cross- 
wise on it. Take some good-coloured, plainly-boiled cold carrots, chop 
them up finely, season with a little thick cream and salad oil, coralline 
pepper, and put little layers between each fillet of herring. Kub four 
raw ripe tomatoes through a sieve, mix the pulp with a little salt and 
coralline pepper, two raw yolks of eggs, a few drops of liquid carmine, a 
quarter-pint of salad oil, half a gill of cool liquid aspic jelly, and the 
strained juice of a lemon ; pour this round the dish, sprinkle over it a little 
finely-chopped raw parsley, and serve for luncheons, ball suppers, &c. 

Salad a la Beatrice 

Salade a la Beatrice 

Take a large, fresh lettuce, cut in very fine shreds, a handful of young, 
well-washed spinach, also cut very finely, the same quantity of sorrel, 
two peeled and finely-chopped onions, four sprigs of tarragon, and a hand- 
ful of chopped chervil ; the well-washed hearts of two sticks of celery, 
also chopped fine ; pile up all together on a dish or salad-bowl, sprinkle 
over it some shredded capsicums, pour over it the prepared dressing, 
place here and there on the top of the salad some nice pieces of lax and 
some of the prepared herring roes-;' sprinkle over these some finely-cut 



OF EXTRA RECIPES SALADS AND SANDWICHES 413 

slices of Gruyere cheese, some sliced mixed pickles, and a little coralline 
pepper, and serve for any cold collation. 

Dressing for Salad a la Beatrice. Take twelve sardines (those 
preserved in tomato sauce are best), rub them through a hair sieve, and mix 
them with a dessertspoonful of chutney, a teaspoonful of anchovy essence, 
the same of mixed English mustard, a clove of garlic scraped, four hard- 
boiled yolks of eggs rubbed through a wire sieve, a quarter-pint of Mayon- 
naise sauce, two tablespoonfuls of French vinegar, and a saltspoonful of 
castor sugar ; colour with carmine, mix up all together, and use as directed. 

Chestnut Salad a la Graham 
Salade de Marrou* d la Graham 

Cut off the tops of two pounds of sound chestnuts and bake them 
for forty to fifty minutes in a moderate oven, then remove the skins and 
leave them till cold, then cut into quarters ; mix with them half their 
weight of cooked white meat (that has been freed from skin and bone 
and cut into fine shreds), three or four truffles, three or four sliced button 
mushrooms, sprinkle well with salad oil, dish up in a pile, pour over 
them the sauce, sprinkle over the top little pieces of tarragon and chervil, 
garnish the corners of the dish with slices of raw tomatoes that are 
seasoned with salad oil, tarragon vinegar, salt, and coralline pepper, 
sprinkle over with shredded chicken and cooked lean ham, and serve for 
a luncheon, or ball-supper dish. 

Sauce for Chestnut Salad a la Graham. Take a quarter-pint of 
sherry, one ounce of glaze, one pint of good clear game or poultry stock 
or clear soup, four sheets of Marshall's Leaf Gelatine, and boil down to 
half the quantity, tammy, and put it aside till cold and use as directed. 

Salad a la Clarence 
Salade a la Clarence 

Take two finely-sliced peeled onions, one nice fresh peeled and sliced 
cucumber, one fresh well-washed crisp lettuce cut in shreds, a small 
handful of well-washed crisp endive ; season these with a tablespoonful 
of French capers, six Spanish olives that have been stoned and chopped 
up fine, one chopped eschalot, a good dust of coralline pepper and salt, 
a teaspoonful of coriander powder, a quarter-pound of cooked white 
meat, freed from skin and chopped fine ; mix all together with a quarter- 
pint of thick Mayonnaise sauce (vol. i.), a wineglassful of French 
vinegar, a quarter-pint of Tomato sauce (vol. i.), and a pinch of castor 



414 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

sugar. Dish up in a pile, cover entirely with hard-boiled yolk and white 
of egg (that have been rubbed separately through a coarse wire sieve), 
arranging them in layers, one white, one yellow ; sprinkle between each 
layer a little fresh raw green parsley that is finely chopped, and here 
and there arrange some Kriiger's Appetit Sild rolled up, and serve for a 
second-course or ball-supper dish. 

Salad a la Clarendon 
Salads d la Clarendon 

Take two bunches of well-washed and picked crisp watercress, a 
handful of crisp well-washed mustard and cress, two sticks of well- 
washed crisp celery that has been cut up into Julienne shreds about 
two inches in length, and one peeled onion also cut into Julienne shreds ; 
put all together into a basin, season with coralline pepper and salt, 
a gill of salad oil mixed with a tablespoonful each of tarragon and 
chilli vinegar, and dish up in a pile on an entree or flat dish ; arrange 
here and there on the top of the salad about two dozen Kriiger's Appetit 
Sild, and two or three raw finely-sliced tomatoes that are seasoned with 
salad oil, mignonette pepper, and chopped eschalot, and serve for luncheon 
or second course, or for any cold collation. 

Salad a la Oomte de Paris 
Salade a la Comte de Paris 

Turn the contents of a tin of lax out on to a plate, and season it 
with finely-chopped capers, French gherkins, eschalots, parsley, coralline 
pepper, and a little white wine. Take one or two crisp heads of celery, 
a nice crisp root of chicory, one nice lettuce, and one leek that have all 
been washed, and dried, and cut in Julienne shreds, and seasoned well 
with salad oil, chilli vinegar, salt, two ounces of grated Gruyere or 
Cheddar cheese, and the juice of a lemon ; mix up well altogether, dish 
up in a pile on a dish, sprinkle the lax here and there over it, with 
little pieces of caviar about the size of a Spanish nut, and serve for 
luncheons, ball suppers, &c. 

Cheese Salad a la Suisse 
Salade de Fromage d la Sidsse 

Cut up a pound of Cheddar cheese into little dice shapes, and mix 
with it two large peeled raw onions, the best parts of two well-washed 



OF EXTEA EECIPES SALADS AND SANDWICHES 415 

heads of celery and half a pound of lean cooked ham all cut in a similar 
manner ; mix together in a basin with a tablespoonful of mixed English 
mustard, the same of French mustard, a quarter-pint of good salad oil, 
a tablespoonful of malt vinegar, and a saltspoonful of salt. Dish up 
the salad in a pile, sprinkle over it some coralline pepper and finely- 
shredded crisp lettuce, and serve for luncheon, shooting parties, &c. 

Salad of Cabbage a 1'Americaine 

Salade de Chotix d PAmericaine 

Take a nice young freshly-gathered tender cabbage, wash it well, and 
cut up the heart into the finest possible shreds, well season it with salt, 
coarsely ground black pepper, salad oil, tarragon vinegar, one large 
finely-chopped onion, a tablespoonful of thick cream, sprinkle over it 
some chopped tarragon and chervil, mix up well together, put into a 
salad-bowl ; arrange here and there on the top slices of hard-boiled egg 
and thinly-cut slices of cooked ox tongue or ham, and two tablespoonfuls 
of French capers, and serve for luncheon or with the remove at dinner, 
or for ball suppers, &c. 

Chicory Salad 

Salade an Chicoree 

Take some perfectly fresh well-washed and picked chicory, and just 
before serving pick it into small sprigs, put it in a clean cloth and 
shake the water from it, place it in the salad bowl and pour a salad 




dressing as below over it. Sprinkle it over with picked raw tarragon 
and chervil leaves and serve. This can be served for dinner or luncheon 
to be eaten with cold meats, &c. Lettuce can be used in the same way. 
Salad Dressing for Chicory Salad. Put the raw yolks of two 
eggs in a basin and a saltspoonful of salt, a little mignonette pepper, a 
saltspoonful of French mustard, the same of English mustard, and a 
pinch of castor sugar. Mix into this a quarter-pint or more if liked of 
salad oil, a tablespoonful of tarragon vinegar, and a dessertspoonful of 
chilli vinegar ; stir well together, then add half a gill of whipped thick 
cream that is slightly sweetened and use 



416 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

Egyptian Salad 
Salade a VEgyptienne 

Take a nice freshly-gathered young white-heart cabbage, wash 
it well in cold water, and cut it through into about six pieces, 
lengthwise ; remove the core, and cut the tender parts of the cabbage 
into very fine shreds ; put these into a stewpan with sufficient cold 
water to cover them and a pinch of salt, bring to the boil, then skim, 
and let the cabbage simmer for about ten minutes, when it should be 
strained off and rinsed well in cold water, and placed on a sieve till well 
drained. When ready to serve, season the cabbage with salad oil, 
finely-chopped tarragon and chervil, a little salt and tarragon vinegar, 
a teaspoonful of French capers, three or four finely-shredded Spanish 
olives, and one or two red chillies that have been freed from pips and cut 
into shreds. When well mixed together, arrange it in a dish in the 
form of a border, and fill up the centre with neatly cut pieces of cold 
lean ham and roast beef, seasoned with the mixture prepared as below, 
and round the meat arrange a layer of slices of hard-boiled eggs. Serve 
for a luncheon or dinner dish, or for a meat tea, &c. 

Seasoning for Meat for Egyptian Salad. Stir four tablespoonfuls 
of salad oil on to three raw yolks of eggs, and add a dessertspoonful of 
French mustard, the same of English mustard, a saltspoonful of dry 
curry powder, a dust of Marshall's Coralline Pepper, a pinch of salt, 
and a tablespoonful of tarragon vinegar ; mix these all together and use. 

French. Salad 
Salade a la Frangaise 

Pick one or two well- washed and dried crisp lettuces into nice large 
flaky pieces about two inches long, shake them in a clean dry cloth, and 
put them into a bowl ; season with a good sprinkling of salt, a little 
white pepper, a teaspoonful of French tarragon vinegar, a quarter of a 
pint of salad oil, the leaves from two or three fresh sprigs of chervil 
and a sprig of tarragon cut into shreds ; mix up well together with a 
spoon, and serve with any hot meats or poultry either as removes 
or roasts. Chicory or endive can be used instead of the lettuce. 

Green Salad a la Bretonne 

Salade Verte a la Bretonne 

Take two hearts of well-washed ,and dried crisp lettuce, and cut each 
leaf into three or four pieces, sprinkle them with a little salt and shredded 



OF EXTRA RECIPES SALADS AiND SANDWICHES 417 

Christiania anchovies and little pieces of turned Spanish olive, dish up in a 
pile, sprinkle all over any remains of cold cooked fish, pour over it the 
sauce prepared as below, form round it a border of the crayfish or prawns 
seasoned with salad oil and a little tarragon vinegar and chopped parsley 
and coralline pepper, and serve for dinner, luncheon, or supper. The 
crayfish bodies can be bought ready prepared in bottles if not in season. 
Sauce for Salade Verte A la Bretonxe. Put into a stewpan a 
handful of raw parsley, tarragon, and chervil, and two chopped eschalots, 
season with salt and a tiny bit of soda, cover with cold water and bring 
to the boil ; then strain, rinse in cold water and press dry, then pound 
it with six boned Christiania anchovies, two hard-boiled yolks of egg^ y 
and four French gherkins, and if the parsley is not a very good colour, 
colour with a little apple green, and rub it altogether through a clean 
tammy ; mix with it half a pint of thick Mayonnaise sauce (vol. i.) 
and half a pint of stiffly-whipped cream, and use as directed. 

Salad of Herring Roes a la Hamburg 
Salade de Laitanee de Hareng d la Hamburg 

Take a good handful of crisp, picked and well-washed leaves of 
watercress and a large well -washed cut-up lettuce, well season them 
with salt, dry mustard, cayenne pepper, and the strained juice of a 
lemon and the pulp of two raw ripe tomatoes ; mix these well together 
and put them on a dish, take some of the prepared tinned roes of 
herrings, and the same quantity of Kruger's Appetit Sild, season them 
with a little salad oil and arrange them in layers on the salad ; sprinkle 
with finely-shredded French red chillies and gherkins, and serve for 
luncheon, &c. 

Salad of Roes a la Meuniere 
Salade de Laitanee a la Meuni&re 

Take the yolks and whites of six hard-boiled eggs, and rub them 
separately through a wire sieve. Butter some brown bread, and cut it 
into slices about two inches square ; place these on a dish and arrange 
on each a layer of finely-cut shreds of well-washed and dried crisp 
lettuce, and here and there arrange some appetit sild, then a layer of 
the white of egg ; well sprinkle this with the prepared dressing and 
arrange on it alternate layers of prepared herring roes and yolk of egg y 
sprinkle over the top little finely-cut shreds of cooked beetroot, pour 
the remainder of the dressing round the dish and serve for ball suppers, 
luncheons, &c. 

e e 



418 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

Dressing for Salad of Roes a la Meuniere. Take a dessert- 
spoonful of mixed English mustard, a wiueglassful of white wine, four 
tablespoonfuls of thick Mayonnaise sauce (vol. i.), the juice of one 
lemon, a few drops of Marshall's Liquid Carmine, six Kruger's Appetit 
Sild chopped fine, a teaspoonful of finely-chopped eschalot, mix alto- 
gether and use as directed. 

Salad of Marinaded Herrings a la Riga 
Salade de Harengs Marines d la Riga 

Cut eight or ten of Kruger's fillets of herrings into small square 
pieces ; slice four raw ripe tomatoes, peel three onions and cut them in 
slices as thin as a wafer, using Marshall's Vegetable Slicer (if possible) 
for the purpose, and steep them in tarragon vinegar for an hour before 
using. Place the tomatoes on the dish on which the salad is to be 
served, arrange the herrings on this, sprinkle over it a little salad oil, 
dry mustard and hard-boiled yolk of egg, and arrange all over this the 
slices of onion ; cover the whole entirely with grated Parmesan cheese, 
sprinkle over the cheese a little chopped raw green parsley and coral- 
line pepper, and serve for luncheon, second course, &c. 

Salad of Herrings with White Wine a la Zartz 
Salade de Harengs an Vin Blanc a la Zartz 

Take some of Kruger's fillets of herrings and cut them into one inch 
square pieces. Have some croutons of bread cut about the same size, 
fry the latter in clean boiling fat till a nice golden colour, and when 
cool place the squares of herring on them ; arrange these on the dish 
on which they are to be served, cover them with finely-sliced peeled 
cucumber, well sprinkle with salad oil, a little mignonette pepper and 
chopped eschalot, garnish the corners of the dish with hard-boiled egg 
that is cut in quarters and seasoned with coralline pepper and salad oil, 
and serve for a savoury or luncheon dish. 

Salad of Herring in White Wine 
Salade de Hareng au Vin Blanc 

Pound in the mortar till smooth four of Kruger's marinaded fillets 
of herrings with six hard-boiled yolks of eggs and a dust of 
Marshall's Coralline Pepper ; then rub the mixture through a fine wire 
or hair sieve, and mix with it, a quarter-pint of thick Mayonnaise 
sauce (vol. i.), and a quarter-pint of whipped cream ; arrange this in 



OF EXTRA RECIPES SALADS AND SANDWICHES 419 

the centre of the dish on which the salad is to be served, then cut some 
fillets of the herrings into two or three pieces, roll them in cylinder 
shape, and arrange them as a border round the centre ; pick some well- 
washed crisp lettuce in small square pieces and mix them with three or 
four ripe raw tomatoes that have been peeled and the pips removed 
from them, and cooked beetroot cut in lengths of about one inch and a 
quarter of an inch thick (shreds of fresh crisp celery can also be added 
when in season) ; arrange these outside the herring, and then place 
round the edge of the dish a border of little croutons of bread, which 
have been cut to the same shape and size of the beetroot and fried in 
clean boiling salad oil or clarified butter till crisp, and then left till 
cold ; sprinkle some picked leaves of tarragon and chervil lightly over 
the top of the salad when it is about to be served. 

This is an excellent second-course or luncheon dish, or for any cold 
collation. 

Herring Salad a la Leopold 
Scdade de Ha/rengs d la Leopold 

Eemove the bones and skin from some kippered herrings and cut 
the fish into strips an inch in length, steep them in salad oil seasoned 
with a little coralline pepper ; cut into thin slices a small beetroot, four 
plainly boiled potatoes and two peeled onions, mix it with a quarter-pint 
of bottled or fresh nasturtium seeds chopped up, half a pint of young 
nasturtium leaves (if in season) that have been well washed and dried, 
season with a salad dressing prepared as below ; dish up the salad in 
a pile, pour the dressing over, sprinkle some finely-shredded crisp 
cucumber and a little lobster coral or coralline pepper over it, place 
the prepared herrings crosswise on this and serve for a second course or 
ball-supper dish. 

Dressing for Herring Salad a la Leopold. Take a quarter-pint 
of salad oil, two tablespoonfuls of tarragon vinegar, one clove of scraped 
garlic, a wineglassful of white wine, a teaspoonful of mixed English 
mustard, and six Christiania anchovies that have been boned and rubbed 
through a sieve, whisk altogether till smooth, add a quarter-pint of 
double cream and use. 

Italian Salad 

Salade d Vltalienne 

Take some cold cooked potatoes, some raw peeled cucumber, boiled 
cauliflower, and Brussels sprouts when in season, cooked artichoke 
bottoms, and any other nice vegetable ; cut out all these with a fancy 

E E 2 



420 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

cutter, with the exception of the sprouts, which can, if large, be cut up 
in quarters, and the cauliflower, which should be picked in little sprigs ; 
season all with chopped tarragon and chervil, salad oil, tarragon vinegar, 
and a little finely-chopped eschalot ; arrange the vegetables in the form 
of a border on the dish on which they are to be served, fill up the centre 
with Tartare sauce (vol. i.), and on the top of this arrange any nice 
pieces of cooked poultry or fish that is seasoned with a little oil, tarragon 
vinegar, and chopped tarragon and chervil; and place here and there on 
the dish some olives farced with anchovies. This is nice for luncheon or 
second course, or for any cold collation, ball supper, &c. 

Macedoine Salad 
Salade de Macedoine 

Strain all the liquor from the contents of a tin or bottle of macedoine 
of vegetables, put them into a basin and mix with them a quarter-pint 
of Mayonnaise sauce, a quarter-pint of stiffly-whipped cream, a wine- 
glassful of tarragon vinegar, half a pound of any nice little pieces of 
cold cooked game or chicken, free from skin and bone ; stir up well 
together, and dish up in a potato salad border prepared as below, and 
serve for luncheon, second course, or for any cold collation. 

Potato Salad Border for Macedoine Salad. Take some plainly- 
boiled cold potatoes, cut them into slices about a quarter-inch thick and 
stamp them out with a heart-shape cutter about two and a half inches 
long, season them with a little salad oil, tarragon vinegar, and a little 
chopped lean ham or tongue, and arrange them as a border round the 
dish on which the salad is to be served. 

Lettuce Salad with. Mayonnaise Sauce 
Salade de Laitue Sauce Mayonnaise 

Take a nice crisp and well-washed lettuce, cut it up and dry it well, 
mix with it two tablespoonfuls of Mayonnaise sauce (vol. i.), a table- 
spoonful of whipped cream, a tablespoonful of tarragon vinegar, and a dust 
of castor sugar, and use for garnishing entrees, or for serving with hot 
or cold meats. 

Lettuce Salad a la Vienne 

Salade de Laitue a la Vienne 

Take a well-washed, crisp lettuce, dry it, and cut it into shreds, 
sprinkle these with a little salacf oil, tarragon, and chilli vinegar, and a 



OF EXTRA EECIPES SALADS AND SANDWICHES 421 

little salt and mignonette pepper, and mix with it about half its bulk 
of finely-shredded, cooked lean ham, cut in Julienne strips about one 
inch in length ; also add some finely-shredded tarragon, and small picked 
leaves of fresh chervil. Mix well and use for luncheon, ball supper, &c. 

Okra Salad 
Salade Okra 

Turn the contents of a tin of okra out on to a dish, sprinkle over it 
some sliced cold cooked chicken or any other game or poultry, place on 
this a layer of raw finely-sliced ripe tomatoes and some finely-chopped 
eschalot, then another layer of chicken, and so on until the dish is nearly 
full, then sprinkle the top layer well with salad oil, lemon juice and 
coralline pepper, and lastly, arrange on the top a good layer of well- 
washed and dried picked leaves of watercress, that is seasoned with 
salad oil, tarragon and chilli vinegar, and a little salt and coralline 
pepper, and serve for a luncheon, ball supper, or as a second-course dish. 



Salad a la Pompadour 
Salade a la Pompadour 

Cut two or three fresh cleansed and plainly boiled cold carrots into 
very fine thin slices, plainly boil two large cleansed young leeks, cut them 
into slices, and put these and the carrots on separate plates ; season them 
well with salad oil and salt and Marshall's Coralline Pepper, and arrange 
them in the form of a border on the dish on which the salad is to be 
served. Have a well-washed young cauliflower, plainly boil it (see 
recipe c Salad a la Virginie ') and set it aside till cold, break it into small 
pieces, season with oil, tarragon vinegar, and coralline pepper, and pile 
it in the centre of the prepared border ; mask it over with a very 
thick Mayonnaise sauce (vol. i.), smooth this well with a palette knife, 
cover it over with grated Cheddar or Gruyere cheese, pour round the base 
of the dish some very thick cream that has been seasoned with a little 
salt, mixed with a chopped eschalot and a teaspoonful of chopped 
parsley, and serve for a luncheon or second-course dish. 

Salad a la Rachel 
Salade a la Rachel 

Peel a nice large fresh cucumber, cut it in lengths of about one and 
a half inches, and then cut it in Julienne shreds ; season these with 



422 MRS. A. B. MARSH ALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

salad oil, French vinegar, chopped tarragon, and chervil or parsley, and 
a very little chopped eschalot, if liked ; arrange them on a dish in layers, 
with equal quantities of cooked French beans cut in similar lengths, and 
seasoned similarly ; arrange carrot and turnip, that are cut out with a 
small pea-cutter and cooked separately till tender, round the sides of the 
green vegetables. Plainly boil eight eggs for seven minutes, remove 
the shells, and rub the white and yolk separately through a wire sieve ; 
arrange the yolk outside the vegetables, then place a border of chopped 
cooked tongue or ham outside this, then a border of the white of the 
egg, which should be sprinkled with finely-shredded celery, cut in shreds 
and seasoned similarly to the cucumber ; sprinkle some shredded truffle 
and button mushrooms over the top of the cucumber and beans, and 
form a last border with a good thick Tartare sauce (vol. i.), using a 
forcing bag and plain pipe for the purpose, and forcing it out in little 
rounds about the size of a very small Spanish nut. This can be served 
for a second-course or luncheon dish, or for any cold collation, and the 
above quantity is sufficient for six to eight persons. 

Salad a la Saint James 
Salade d la Saint .hunt'* 

Take half a dozen hard-boiled eggs, and cut each into quarters 
lengthwise, season them with finely-chopped eschalot, parsley, capers, 
salt, and a little of Marshall's Coralline Pepper. Have some well-washed 
and crisp lettuces, using only the hearts for the dish, cut each heart into 
six portions, two and a half inches in length, well shake the water from 
them, and spriDkle the lettuce with shreds of fresh tarragon, picked 
leaves of chervil, and some finely-chopped picked shrimps or lobster ; 
arrange the lettuce on a fiat dish in the form of a border, place two 
quarters of the egg and some thinly-cut slices of raw ripe tomatoes on 
each, sprinkle over all some good olive oil and strained lemon-juice, fill 
up the centre of the dish with some small croutons of bread (that have 
been cut about an inch long by a quarter-inch thick, and fried in butter 
till a pale golden colour, and then sprinkled with grated Gruyere 
cheese), and serve for a luncheon, second-course, or ball-supper dish. 
The remains of the lettuce can be used up for a soup or puree. 

Salad a la Stanley 

Salade a la Stanley 

Pick two or three well-washed and dried crisp lettuces into nice 
large pieces, well season with salad oil, salt, tarragon vinegar, dry 



OF EXTEA RECIPES SALADS AND SANDWICHES 423" 

mustard, a pinch of castor sugar and mignonette pepper; place a layer 
of the salad on a dish, cover it with thin small slices of cold roast beef, 
then another layer of the salad, and continue this till the dish is nearly 
full ; then cover the top entirely with very thick Horseradish sauce 
(vol. i.) } and garnish here and there with prettily stamped-out cold 
cooked beetroot, tiny bunches of mustard-and-cress salad, and bunches 
of hard-boiled yolks of eggs that have been rubbed through a coarse 
wire sieve, and form a border entirely round the dish with Christiania 
anchovies, and serve for a second-course dish or for luncheon, or for any- 
cold collation. 

Salad a la Suedoise 
Salade a la Suedoise 

Take a large well-washed fresh crisp lettuce, pick it into large pieces, 
about two inches square, well dry it in a cloth, mix with it some pieces 
of plainly-cooked cold cod or other white fish, dish up in a pile, 
pour over it the prepared dressing, form a border round it with 
red pickled cabbage and tiny fresh nasturtium leaves, and serve for any- 
cold collation, luncheon, &c. 

DRESSING for Salad A la Suedoise. Take a quarter of a pint of 
Mayonnaise sauce (vol. i.), a quarter of a pint of Tomato puree (vol. i.), 
a dessert spoonful of anchovy essence, a saltspoonful of coralline 
pepper, a few drops of carmine to make it a pale salmon colour, 
add four of Kriiger's marinaded fillets of herrings that have been rubbed 
through a sieve, a wineglassful of tarragon vinegar, a teaspoonful of 
French mustard, and a quarter of a pint of chopped young freshly- 
gathered nasturtium seeds if in season ; mix well together and use as 
directed. 

Salad a la Virginie 
Salade a la Virginie 

Take some small young fresh cauliflowers and put them into cold 
water with a little salt to soak for two or three hours ; then put them 
into cold water with a little salt, bring this to the boil, strain and rinse 
the cauliflowers in cold water, and put them again into boiling water 
with a little salt, and cook for about half an hour till tender ; then take 
up and leave till cold ; cut each cauliflower right through vertically into 
ten or twelve pieces, then cut some cold cooked potatoes into slices about 
a quarter of an inch thick, and also slice some raw ripe tomatoes. Take 
about three-quarters of a pound of cold cooked chicken or any nice 
white meat, and four hard-boiled eggs, and cut these and the meat into 



424 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

dice-shapes, then mix together with a good Tomato mayonnaise (vol. 1. 
page 211); season the vegetables with salad oil, tarragon and chilli 
vinegar, and chopped tarragon and chervil, then arrange them as a 
border on a flat dish (alternating the cauliflower, tomatoes, and potatoes), 
fill up the centre with the other preparation, sprinkle over the top some 
French capers, and serve for luncheon or for a second-course or ball- 
supper dish. 

Venison Salad a la Romaine 
Salade de Venaison a la Romaine 

Take a fresh well-washed large crisp lettuce, dry it well in a cloth ; 
season well with salad oil, tarragon and chilli vinegar, three finely- 
chopped eschalots, a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, a tablespoonful of 
French capers, a good pinch of coralline pepper, and a little salt ; slice 
some cold cooked venison finely as for hash using the fat with it, sprinkle 
this with a little port wine, coralline pepper, and hard-boiled yolk of 
egg that has been rubbed through a wire sieve ; place the salad on the 
centre of the dish, and arrange the slices of meat round it as a border. 
Take the contents of a half-pint jar of bright red-currant jelly, cut this 
into slices and garnish the salad with it ; arrange some finely-cut shreds 
of hard-boiled white of egg and French red chillies here and there on 
the dish, and serve for luncheon or for any cold collation. 



SANDWICHES 

Sandwiches a la Americaine 

Take about half a pound of cooked spiced beef, two ounces of 
Gruyere cheese, a teaspoonful of chutney, two ounces of cooked ox- 
tongue, four ounces of fresh butter, a good dust of coralline pepper, a 
few drops of Marshall's Carmine ; pound altogether till smooth, then 
rub through a fine hair sieve. Have some thinly-cut brown bread and 
butter, spread on it a little finely-chopped eschalot and parsley and then 
the above puree, close another piece of bread over the top, and then 
stamp out in squares or rounds. Dish up in the usual way on a dish 
paper; garnish with little sprigs of raw parsley, and form a border 
round the edge with little fancy cut pieces of aspic jelly. Serve for ball 
supper, &c. 



OF EXTRA RECIPES SALADS AND SANDWICHES 425 

Sandwiches a la Bedford 

Take some nicely-cut thin bread and butter, sprinkle it with chopped 
capers, and place on it some filleted anchovies, on the anchovies sprinkle 
a little cooked chicken or rabbit that is cut up in fine shreds, a little 
chopped eschalot and raw tarragon and chervil ; mask over the top piece 
of bread and butter with a little Tartare sauce (vol. i.), close the slices 
together and then stamp out with a plain round cutter, or cut it up into 
small square pieces about one and a half inches wide. Dish up on a 
paper, and serve with watercress or small salad in the centre, and 
garnish round the edge of the sandwiches with some little pieces of 
hard-boiled egg, each egg being cut into eight portions. Serve for ball 
supper, evening parties, &c. 

Sandwiches with Egg Cream 

Take six hard-boiled yolks of eggs, six boned Christiania anchovies, 
a teaspoon ful of French mustard, a dust of coralline pepper, three ounces 
of fresh butter, a tablespoon ful of salad oil and one of thick creamj; 
pound altogether, and when smooth rub through a hair sieve. Take 
some tin bread cut in slices, butter it well, and sprinkle with grated 
Parmesan cheese, cover over with another piece of bread and press well 
together, then stamp or cut out in any nice shapes. Dish up on a paper 
or napkin, and serve for ball supper, &c. 

Sandwiches a la Creme de Volaille 

Take some thinly-cut slices of white bread and butter, sprinkle on 
it a little salt and coralline pepper, and mask over with a thin 
layer of clotted cream. Take any cooked quenelle meat of chicken or 
other white meat (that left from a previous meal can be used up for the 
purpose), cut it into thin slices, and then press it on the bread with the 
cream, close it in with another slice of the bread and butter,* and then 
press closely together and stamp out or cut up into little squares. Dish 
up on a paper or napkin, and fill up the centre with any nice salad ; serve 
for ball supper, receptions, &c. 

Sandwiches a la Fiane 

Take some little sandwich moulds, line them thinly with aspic jelly, 
ornament them with shreds of red French chilli, white of egg, and 



426 



MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 



picked leaves of chervil, setting these with a little more aspic, partly 
fill the moulds with some thinly-cut slices of pate de foie gras. Line 
some more moulds with a plain aspic and fill these up with a puree of 
chicken or any white meat, let this partly set, then pour a little liquid 
aspic into the moulds containing the foie gras, and place those containing 
the chicken to those with the foie gras, then leave till set and firm, and 




when cold turn out the contents of each pair of moulds by dipping them 
in hot water, and place each on a fried crouton about the same size as the 
moulds. Dish up on a cold dish on a paper and garnish here and there 
with bunches of well-washed cress, and when in season quarters of boiled 
plover's egg that are sprinkled with a little of Marshall's Coralline 
Pepper. Serve as a cold entree for dinner, luncheon, or ball supper. 

Chicken Puree for Sandwiches A la Fiane. Take for six to 
eight moulds four ounces of cooked chicken, half a gill of strong chicken 
stock, one ounce of butter, two tablespoonfuls of cream, a pinch of salt 
and white pepper, and a dessertspoonful of Bechamel sauce (vol. i.) ; 
pound till smooth, then mix with one and a half gills of cool aspic jelly, 
tammy, or rub through a fine hair sieve, and use when beginning to set, 
so as to allow the two mixtures to join together. 



Sandwiches a la Francaise 

Toast some thin slices of bread, and mask them on one side with Lax 
puree (vol. i. page 35). Have some yolk of egg passed through a wire 
sieve, and sprinkle this on to the toast with a little shredded chicken 
or game, a little finely-chopped capers and a little chopped tarragon ; 
place another slice of toast on the top of this, press them together, and 
cut in little squares ; mask these with lax puree, sprinkle with a little 
chopped capers and the hard-boiled yolk of egg, and with a forcing 
bag and fancy pipe arrange a little of the lax puree on the top of 
each. Dish up on a dish-paper with a little small salad or watercress, 
and serve for luncheon, ball supper, &c. 



OF EXTRA RECIPES SALADS AND SANDWICHES 427 



Lobster Sandwiches a la Francaise 

Cut some bread and butter and mask it with finely-shredded lettuce, 
take the meat from a cooked lobster and have it chopped fine with six 
or eight boned Christiania anchovies, and put a layer of the lobster on the 
lettuce ; sprinkle it slightly with a little tarragon and chilli vinegar and 
a little salad oil, cover with another piece of bread and butter, press 
together ; then cut up in any nice shapes, and serve on a dish-paper or 
napkin for ball supper, luncheon, &c. 

Sandwiches a la Greville 

Take any kind of cold meat, such as beef or mutton, and to each 
half-pound add six washed and boned anchovies, six turned olives, a 
teaspoonful of French capers, a tiny dust of cayenne, and two fillets of 
marinaded herrings ; pound these all together till quite smooth, then rub 
through a wire sieve. Cut some thin slices of brown bread, butter 
them well, and spread half of them with the prepared puree ; sprinkle 
these over entirely with hard-boiled yolk of egg that has been rubbed 
through a wire sieve ; place on top of this another slice of the bread 
and butter, press them well together, and stamp out with a plain round 
cutter about one and a half inches in diameter, then mask them with 
brown Chaudfroid (vol. ^i.) and white Chaudfroid (vol. i.), making the 
half of each white and the other half brown; glaze this over with a little 
cool aspic jelly, and dish up en couronne on a dish-paper on a plate or dish. 
Serve with any nice, crisp, well-washed salad in the centre, garnish here 
and there round the dish with little bunches of hard-boiled white of egg 
that has been rubbed through a wire sieve, sprinkle lightly on the egg 
some lobster coral or chopped tongue and ham, and serve for any cold 
collation or for a ball supper, &c. The quantities given above are 
sufficient for about thirty-six sandwiches. 

Sandwiches a l'lndienne 

Take eight ounces of cooked white meat, the strained juice of two 
lemons, three hard-boiled yolks of eggs, a pinch of salt, a teaspoonful of 
chutney, a saltspoonful of curry powder, two ounces of lean cooked ham, 
two ounces of cooked Patna rice (as for curry), a teaspoonful of Liebig 
Company's Extract of Meat ; pound together till smooth, add a gill of 
thick cream, then rub through a sieve and use. Take some thinly-cut 



428 MRS. A. B. MARSH ALUS LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

white bread and butter, mask it over with the prepared puree, and press 
on it another plain slice, then stamp out or cut in any fancy shapes. 
Dish on a paper in the usual way, and serve, with some nice crisp 
lettuce salad in the centre, and use for ball suppers, evening parties, &c. 
Meat can be used in the place of the chicken. 

Sandwiches a la Joinville 

Take six bearded sauce oysters, four or five pieces of eel (as prepared 
in bottle), remove the meat from the bone, six Christiania anchovies, four 
hard-boiled yolks of eggs, four ounces of good butter, a dust of coralline 
pepper, two tablespoonfuls of thick cream ; pound together till smooth, 
then rub through a hair sieve and mix with a teaspoonful of raw chopped 
parsley, two ounces of chopped lax, one finely-chopped eschalot, and one 
French gherkin chopped fine. Take some thinly-cut bread and butter 
and spread the puree on it, close over with another piece of bread, stamp 
out, and dish up on a paper in the usual way, and garnish the centre with 
any nice salad. Use for ball supper, &c. 

Sandwiches a la Louise 

Take some thin slices of stale bread, butter them, then spread them over 
with egg puree, as below, and on the egg place a layer of washed and 
boned anchovies, and then a sprinkling of small salad ; close this over with 
another slice of bread and butter, pressing well together, and with a 
plain round cutter stamp out into rounds about two inches in diameter. 
Mask over with sauce, as below, taking care the sauce is used when 




cooling, and sprinkle each with a little lobster coral or coralline pepper 
and chopped Spanish olive. Dish on a paper on a plate, and garnish 
round with little bunches of picked fresh salad and little blocks of aspic 
jelly, and in the centre arrange layers of hard-boiled yolk and white 
of egg that have been passed through a wire sieve, and some chopped 
cooked beetroot. 



OF EXTRA RECIPES SALADS AND SANDWICHES 429 

Egg Puree for Sandwiches A la Louise. Take four hard-boiled 
yolks of eggs, two ounces of good butter, one tablespoonful of Bechamel 
sauce, a dust of coralline pepper, six raw bearded oysters 5 pound till 
smooth, then rub through a fine hair sieve, and use. 

Sauce for Sandwiches A la Louise. Take half a pint of aspic jelly, 
a tablespoonful of thick Mayonnaise sauce, a teaspoonful of anchovy 
essence, a tablespoonful of thick cream, three or four sheets of Marshall's 
Leaf Gelatine ; when dissolved wring through a tammy, and use. 

Sandwiches a la Maryland 

Take some thinly-cut white bread and butter, sprinkle over it some 
finely-cut shreds of crisp well-washed lettuce, a little coralline pepper, and 
pulled cooked crab ; here and there place some appetit sild and some sliced 
or finely-shredded French gherkin, a little shredded raw green tarragon and 
chervil ; sprinkle over these a little salad oil and tarragon vinegar, place 
another slice of buttered bread on the top and press well together; cut 
up into little square pieces, and dish up en couronne on a dish-paper, and 
pile up in the centre some quarters of hard-boiled eggs that are arranged 
prettily amongst some nice flaky pieces of crisp lettuce, then sprinkle here 
and there with finely-shredded French red chillies. These sandwiches 
are nice to serve for high teas, ball suppers, luncheon parties, or after 
theatre, &c. 

Sandwiches a la Parisienne 

Take a quarter of a pound of cooked lean ham, three hard-boiled 
eggs, two ounces of white meat, chicken or rabbit, &c, a quarter of a 
pound of cooked game or poultry livers, two ounces of grated Parmesan 
cheese, a good dust of coralline pepper, a quarter of a pound of good 
butter, a quarter-pint of very thick cream, one tablespoonful of sherry ; 
pound all together till smooth, then rub through a sieve. Have some 
bread buttered and masked with a little finely-chopped raw green 
parsley, and then spread a layer of the prepared puree on the top, close 
over with another piece of buttered bread, and then stamp out in rounds 
about two inches wide. Dish up en couronne on a paper or napkin, and 
serve for ball supper, luncheon, &c. 

Sandwiches a la Portngaise 

Take half a pound of cooked game or poultry, two pounded eschalots, 
two tablespoonfuls of thick Espagnol sauce (vol. i.), a dust of coralline 



430 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

pepper, two ounces of fat and lean cooked ham, a teaspoonful of warm 
glaze, three ounces of fresh butter ; pound till smooth and mix with a few 
drops of Marshall's Carmine and the juice of one lemon, rub through a 
wire sieve, and then use. Take some brown bread and butter, cut as 
usual, and then spread some of the mixture on it, close together with 
another piece of bread and butter, then stamp out with a plain round 
cutter or cut into square pieces, dish upon a bed of lettuce, and garnish 
the centre with a salad of plainly-cooked beetroot mixed with oil and 
tarragon vinegar. Use for ball supper, luncheon, evening parties, &c. 



Sandwiches a la Romaine 

Take half a pound of cold cooked chicken, two ounces of grated 
Gruyere cheese, a teaspoonful of French mustard, a saltspoonful of mixed 
English mustard, three ounces of butter, a pinch of salt and coralline 
pepper, two large tablespoonfuls of thick cream; pound till smooth, 
then rub through a wire sieve and spread on some thinly-cut bread that 
is thinly spread with Anchovy butter (vol. i.) ; stamp out with a plain 
round cutter, and then dish up en couronne on a dish-paper or napkin. 
Use for ball supper, evening parties, &c. 



Sandwiches a la Royale 

Bone a cooked lobster, and chop it up very fine, put aside the coral, 
chop up fine half a pound of picked shrimps, rub four hard-boiled yolks 
of egg through a wire sieve ; cleanse a handful of small salad mustard 
and cress preferable ; cut thin slices of bread and butter from a stale 
brown loaf, from which the crust has been removed. Lightly sprinkle 
some of the slices with the small salad, then with a little yolk of the egg 
and chopped shrimps and lobster. On these place slices of the plain 
bread and butter, and press them well together, using the smooth crust 
from the brown loaf for the purpose, which will press them evenly ; take 
a plain round cutter, about the size of half-a-crown, and stamp out the 
sandwiches in little rounds, then mask them on the top with a little 
chaudfroid sauce, made as follows : Put half a pint of aspic jelly, while 
liquid, into a stewpan with a quarter of a pint of Mayonnaise sauce 
(vol. i.), a teaspoonful of tarragon vinegar, and a few drops of Marshall's 
Liquid Carmine, mix together and pass through the tammy, and use 
when cooling. Garnish the top of each sandwich with a little of the 
chopped lobster, parsley and coral, first rubbing the latter through a 



OF EXTRA RECIPES SALADS AND SANDWICHES 431 

wire sieve ; let the chaudfroid set, and then arrange the sandwiches in 
a pile on a little of the small salad ; garnish round the base of the pile 
with stamped small shapes of the aspic jelly. The quantity given will 
make about forty to fifty sandwiches, according to the size cut, and will 
be found very nice as a savoury, or for receptions or ball suppers. 



Sandwiches a la Victoria 

Cut some white bread in thin slices and butter them well, then mask 
some with a chicken puree prepared as below, place a slice of the plain 
bread and butter on the top of this and press well together. When all 
the slices have been thus prepared, mask over the top of each with a 
thin layer of the same chicken puree, and with a plain round cutter stamp 
out in rounds about two and a half inches in diameter, and then cut 
them into half-moon shapes. Mask each sandwich over with a white 
Chaudfroid (vol. i.), resting them on a broad palette knife during the 




process, then garnish each of them across in three divisions alternately 
with chopped and pressed parsley, chopped tongue, and hard-boiled yolk 
of egg that has been passed through a wire sieve ; set this garnish by 
sprinkling a few drops of aspic jelly over it, then dish up on a dish-paper 
as in engraving, placing in the centre some well-washed small salad 
and garnishing round the outside of the sandwiches with little blocks of 
aspic jelly, and place round the jelly at regular intervals some little 
bunches of the hard-boiled yolk of egg and a little chopped parsley, and 
serve for a luncheon or second-course dish, or for evening parties or ball 
supper. 

Puree of Chicken for Sandwiches A la Victoria. Pound 
together into a paste half a pound of cooked chicken with -two ounces 
of butter, a little salt and white pepper, a dust of Marshall's Coralline 
Pepper, a tablespoonful of thick cream, one and a half tablespoonfuls of 
Bechamel sauce (vol. i.), a dessertspoonful of tarragon and the same of 
chilli vinegar, and rub through a wire sieve. 



432 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 



Sandwiches with "Watercress and Eggs 

Cut some thin slices of white bread and butter, the bread being a 
day old, sprinkle on the bread some crisp fresh leaves of watercress, a 
little salt, and if liked a little finely-chopped eschalot. Have some hard- 
boiled yolk of egg rubbed through a wire sieve and put a thick layer on 
the cress, close over it another piece of the bread and butter and press 
together ; then cut up into small squares and dish up en couronne on a 
paper or folded napkin, and fill up the centre with a bunch of fresh crisp 
watercress that is seasoned with a little salad oil and salt, and serve for 
ball supper, &c. 



OF EXTRA RECIPES HOT SWEETS AND PUDDINGS 433 



CHAPTER XI 
HOT SWEETS AND PUDDINGS 

To Steam Puddings 

To STEAM or poach the following puddings, stand the mould or moulds 
with contents upwards on a fold of paper in a stewpan containing 
boiling water to about three-parts the depth of the mould ; watch the 
water reboil, put the cover on the pan, then draw the pan to the side 
of the stove, and let the contents simmer for the time stated. 

Albani Pudding 
Ponding & V Albani 

Work four raw yolks of eggs with a wooden spoon till like a cream, 
then add to it two and a half ounces of castor sugar, the finely-chopped 
peel of one lemon, two ounces of warm butter, two ounces of gingerbread 
nuts, two ounces of sponge cake crumbs, half an ounce of Marshall's 
Creme de Riz, and one and a half ounces of candied peel cut into fine 
shreds ; mix well altogether, then add the whites of the eggs that have 
been whipped stiff with a pinch of salt. Put the mixture into a pudding 
mould that is buttered and lined with buttered foolscap paper, and 
dusted over with blanched and shredded almonds, and strips of angelica, 
and steam it for one and a quarter hours, then turn out on a hot dish, 
pour Aubois sauce (vol. i.) round the base, or have it handed in a 
sauceboat. Serve for dinner or luncheon. 

Albert Pudding 
Pouding d V Albert 

Put a quarter of a pound of fresh butter into a basin, and work it 
with a wooden spoon till quite white like cream ; add a saltspoonful of 
ground ginger, the finely-chopped peel of two lemons, a teaspoonful of 
vanilla essence, and three ounces of castor sugar ; mix these together 
for a few minutes, then add two ounces of finely-sifted flour, two ounces 

F F 



434 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

of ratafia biscuit crumbs, the raw yolks of four eggs, half a wineglass- 
ful of brandy or liqueur, and colour a pale salmon colour with Marshall's 
Liquid Carmine ; then add the eighth of an ounce of Cowan's Baking 
Powder, whip five whites of eggs to a stiff" froth and mix with the other 
ingredients. Butter a plain mould, dust it over with dried cocoanut 
and ratafia crumbs ; then fill it with the mixture, and let the pudding 
steam for eighty minutes (see page 433) ; when cooked turn it out on to 
a hot dish, and serve at once with Apricot sauce (vol. i.) or Albert sauce 
(see recipe) round the base. 

Little Alexandra Puddings 
Petit s Ponding s a V Alexandra 

Butter some little dariol moulds, and ornament the inside tops of 
each with dried cherries and angelica ; sprinkle round the sides some 
chopped baked almonds, and half fill each of the moulds with sponge- 
cake crumbs mixed with half a teaspoonful of finely-chopped beef suet, 
then fill them up with the custard prepared as below ; steam the 
puddings for rather better than an hour (see page 433) ; then turn 
them out on to a hot dish, and serve with Alexandra sauce round for a 
sweet for dinner or luncheon. 

Custard for Alexandra Puddings. For six or eight little dariol 
moulds take half a pint of single cream or new milk, mix with it three 
large whole eggs, two tablespoonfuls of brandy, one and a half ounces 
of castor sugar, the finely-chopped peel of a lemon and as much ground 
ginger as will cover a threepenny piece ; mix up well together with a fork 
and use as instructed. 

Alexandra Sauce. Put into a stewpan two bayleaves, the peel 
and juice of one lemon, two ounces of castor sugar, one tablespoonful of 
apricot jam, as much ginger as will cover a sixpenny piece, and half a 
pint of water ; boil together for about fifteen minutes, then add to it an 
ounce of arrowroot mixed with a wineglassful of brandy and a few drops 
of liquid carmine. Tammy, or rub through a hair sieve, boil up, and use. 

Almond Pudding a la Boleno 
Ponding aux Amandes a la Boleno 

Pound half a pound of blanched Jordan almonds till smooth, mix 
with them three ounces of crushed ratafia biscuits, two tablespoonfuls 
of orange-flower water, two ounces of warm butter, one and a half 
ounces of Marshall's Creme de Riz, one and a half gills of cream, six 



OF EXTRA EECIPES HOT SWEETS AND PUDDINGS 435 

whole raw beaten-up eggs, three ounces of castor sugar, and half a 
gill of Maraschino syrup. Line a well-buttered Charlotte mould with 
buttered paper, dust it over with dried cocoanut and freshly-made 
white breadcrumbs, pour the mixture into this and let the contents 
steam for one and a half hours (see page 433), then take up, turn out 
the pudding on to a hot dish, and pour Almond sauce round the base. 
Serve for a sweet for dinner. 

Almond Sauce. Mix one and a half gills of cream with one and a 
half ounces of castor sugar, three raw yolks of eggs, a wineglassful of 
brandy, and one and a half ounces of butter ; stir in the bain-marie till 
it thickens, then tammy, add to it one ounce of finely-shredded blanched 
almonds and a few drops of almond essence, rewarm in the bain-marie, 
and use. 

Pudding a la Belleline 
Poudimj d hi, Belleline 

Take two ounces of fresh butter, the peels of two oranges chopped 
fine, and as much of Marshall's Apricot Yellow as will cover a three- 
penny piece ; work these till like a cream, then mix in three ounces of 
castor sugar, three ounces of Vanilla biscuit crumbs, and two ounces of 
dried cocoanut chopped fine ; stir till quite smooth, then add six raw 
yolks of eggs, a wineglassful of brandy, one ounce of finely-chopped 
candied lemon peel, a gill of cream, and four whites of eggs that have 
been whipped stiffly. Well butter a timbal or other mould, dust it 
over with white breadcrumbs, and pour the prepared mixture into it, and 
poach the pudding for one hour and a quarter (see page 433). When 
cooked take up the mould, turn out the pudding on a hot dish, and 
pour Apricot sauce (vol. i.) round the base. Serve very hot for a sweet 
for dinner. 

Caramel Pudding a l'Empress Frederick 
Caramels a l'Empress Frederick 

Put into a plain round mould the strained juice of one lemon, two 
ounces of castor sugar, and about twelve drops of vanilla essence ; place 
the mould on the stove till the sugar becomes a deep golden colour, 
then dip the outside of the mould into cold water. Put four ounces of 
fresh Moka coffee berries into a saute pan, place this on the stove until 
the berries are a good brown colour (which will take about fifteen 
minutes), put them in a pan with one pint of cream, a split pod of 
vanilla, and four ounces of castor sugar ; stand the pan on the side of 
the stove until the cream is scalded, but do not allow it to boil ; remove 

r f 2 



436 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

the pan to a bain-marie, and let the contents infuse for about half 
an hour, then strain, and allow the mixture to cool. Put eight whole 
eggs in a basin with a tablespoonful of brandy and the same quantity 
of Maraschino liqueur, and mix these up well together with a fork ; 
then add the cream mixture prepared as above, and pour it into the 
mould containing the caramel to within one inch of the top and steam 
for about one and a half to two hours (see page 433), during which 
time sprinkle in the mould two ounces of desiccated cocoanut, adding 
about a dessert-spoonful at the time ; the first portion should be added 
when the caramel has been in the stewpan about twenty minutes, and 
the other portions at intervals of a quarter of an hour ; by thus adding 
the cocoanut the caramel should when cut show a layer of custard and 
a layer of cocoanut. When the caramel is cooked take up the mould 
and carefully shake it, then turn out the caramel on to a dish and serve 
either hot or cold for a dinner sweet, or it can also be served for any 
cold collation. 



Pudding a la Oamille 

Ponding d la Camille 

Put into a stewpan one pint of new milk, the chopped peel of one 
lemon, a pinch of cinnamon, and three ounces of castor sugar ; bring this 
to the boil, then mix into the pan four ounces of Marshall's Creme de 
Biz, stir again till it boils, then let it simmer on the side of the stove 
for about five minutes, when it should be removed from the fire and set 
aside till somewhat cool ; stir into it by degrees five whole beaten-up 
raw eggs, one ounce of uncrystallised cherries cut into small pieces, 
half an ounce of angelica cut up small, half an ounce of finely-chopped 
blanched sweet almonds, and a teaspoonful of vanilla essence. Butter 
well a pudding or Charlotte mould, and line it with buttered paper, 
sprinkle all over it some finely-shredded Julienne strips of mixed candied 
peel, and pieces of dried cherries, then put the mixture prepared as 
above into the mould, knock this on the table so that the mixture sinks 
well into it, and steam the pudding for one and a half hours (see p. 433), 
then take it up and turn out on a hot dish, remove the paper carefully and 
pour round the base the sauce prepared as below, and serve while quite 
hot. This is an excellent pudding for a dinner or luncheon sweet. 

Sauce for Pudding a la Camille. Put into a stewpan the pulp 
of two oranges freed from pips, the finely-chopped peel of the same that 
has been freed from pith, hal-a pint of water, two tablespoonfuls of 
raspberry pulp or jam, and one and a half ounces of castor sugar; bring 



OF EXTRA RECIPES HOT SWEETS AND PUDDINGS 437 

this to the boil, then add to it half an ounce of the best arrowroot that 
has been mixed with a wineglassful of Marshall's Maraschino Syrup ; 
stir again till boiling, then wring through a tammy, colour with a few 
drops of carmine, add the fruit of three peeled bananas cut up into 
little dice shapes, make hot in the bain-marie and use.. , 



Chocolate Pudding with FiKiits 
Ponding Chocolat wux Fruits 

Take a turban mould, butter and paper it well, ( then . have two new 
French rolls from which take the crumb, and put it in a basin and mix 
it with two ounces of castor sugar, a saltspoonful of vanilla essence, 
and two ounces of Fry's Caracas Chocolate that is cut fine ; pour on 
it half a pint of warm cream, and let this stand till the roll is well 
soaked ; then mix up with five raw eggs and pour into the papered 
mould, put it to steam for about three-quarters of an hour (see page 433) ; 
then turn out and remove the paper from it. Have a Chocolate sauce 
prepared (vol. i.) to pour entirely over the pudding, fill up the centre 
with any nice mixed hot fruits that are cooked and just mixed up with 
a little Maraschino and a little castor sugar. Serve' I hot for dinner or 
luncheon sweets. 



Diplomat Pudding 
Ponding d la Dvplomaie 

Well butter a plain Charlotte mould and line it with buttered foolscap 
paper, ornament it all over with strips of dried cherries and greengages, 
pressing the fruits closely to the moulds. Take equal proportions of 
sponge and ratafia biscuits, place a layer of one of these on the bottom 
of the mould, sprinkle over it some finely-cut fruit such as used for the 
garnish, place a layer of the other biscuits on the top, and continue this 
process until the mould is full. Mix together half a pint of single 
cream, two ounces of castor sugar, and as much ground cinnamon as 
will cover a threepenny-piece, also the finely-chopped peel of a lemon, 
a few drops of vanilla essence, a wineglassful of brandy, half a wine- 
glass of Maraschino liqueur, and six whole raw eggs ; beat up well with a 
fork, then pour the mixture into the prepared mould and steam for an 
hour and a half (see page 433). When cooked, take up and turn it out 
on a hot dish, remove the paper from it, and pour round it Mousseline 
sauce (see recipe), and serve quite hot for dinner or luncheon. 

* F 1'' 3 



438 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

Little Florida Puddings 
Petits Poudhigs a la Florida 

Put into a stewpan half a pint of new milk, the finely-chopped peel 
of one lemon, one ounce of castor sugar, and two ounces of butter ; 
bring this to the boil, then stir into it two ounces of Marshall's CrSme de 
Riz and when it re-boils draw the pan to the side of the stove, and let 
it remain for ten minutes ; then turn out the contents into a basin, and 
when cooled a little, mix with two whole beaten-up raw eggs, stirring 
them well together. Butter some little fancy bouch or dariol moulds 
with cold butter, and dust these over with fine browned breadcrumbs, 
and then with a little castor sugar ; fill them with the mixture prepared 




as above, and put them into a stewpan containing boiling water to 
about half the depth of the moulds ; watch the water re-boil, then cover 
the pan, draw it to the side of the stove, and let the puddings steam 
for one hour ; then, with a small pointed knife, carefully loosen them 
from the moulds, and turn out the puddings on to a hot dish, arranging 
them in a circle ; pour over them a little Apricot sauce (vol. i.) ; form 
a star on the top of each with cut, dried cherries, and fill up the centre 
with a macedoine of fruit (as below). Serve whilst quite hot for a 
dinner or luncheon sweet. The quantities given above are sufficient for 
eight to ten moulds. 

Macedoine of Fruit for Little Florida Puddings. Cut some 
raw, ripe or dried fruit, such as cherries, bananas, oranges, &c, freed 
from skin, into small, square pieces, mix them with a little Maraschino or 
other liqueur, warm them in a bain-marie, and use as instructed above. 

Saint James Pudding 

Ponding d la Saint James 

Put into a stewpan three ounces of butter and two and a half ounces 
of flour, fry together without browning, put into another stewpan two 
gills of new milk and boil it with a piece of cinnamon about one inch 
long, two bayleaves, the finely-chopped peel of a lemon and an orange, 



OF EXTRA RECIPES HOT SWEETS AND PUDDINGS 439 

and two and a half ounces of castor sugar ; strain this on to the butter 
and flour and stir over the fire till the contents boil, then mix with it a 
wineglassful of Marshall's Maraschino Syrup, and leave it till slightly 
cool, and add to it by degrees four whole eggs that have been well beaten 
up, and three ounces of uncrystallised cherries that are cut in strips, and 
one ounce of finely-shredded blanched pistachios. Have a fancy mould 
well buttered and ornamented with dried cocoanut, shredded pistachios, 
and strips of dried cherries ; put the prepared mixture into the mould, 
and steam for an hour and a quarter (see page 433) ; then take up and 
turn out on a hot dish and serve with Banana sauce round the dish ; 
use for a dinner or luncheon sweet and serve hot. 



Mousseline Pudding 

Fo tiding Mousseline 

Take two ounces of fresh butter and the finely-chopped peel of two 
lemons freed from pith, work these together with a wooden spoon until the 
mixture looks like cream, then add two ounces of castor sugar and work 
again for about five minutes, and by degrees add two ounces of fine- 
sifted flour, five raw yolks of eggs, the strained juice of one lemon and a 
saltspoonful of vanilla essence ; mix these well for about ten minutes, 
then whip the whites of the eggs with a pinch of salt into quite a stiff 
froth, and add these to the first preparation, taking care not to work the 
mixture more than possible after the whites are added. Prepare a mould 
for the pudding as follows : butter a plain Charlotte mould well, and 
line it with a buttered paper, dust it over with castor sugar, sprinkle it 
with finely-chopped mixed candied peel, then put the pudding mixture 
into the mould and allow the pudding to steam for eighty minutes 
(see page 433) ; then turn out on a hot dish, remove the paper quickly, 
and serve with Mousseline sauce round (see recipe), and send to table 
at once for a dinner-party sweet. This pudding must not be turned out 
until it is wanted, as it will lose its lightness if allowed to cool. 

Montmorency Pudding 
Ponding d la Montmorency 

Put half a pint of new milk into a stewpan with two ounces of castor 
sugar and a split pod of vanilla ; bring this to the boil, then mix into it 
two ounces of Marshall's Creme de Biz that has been mixed with half a 
gill of cold milk, and continue stirring till the mixture boils, then turn 
out into a basin and leave it till cool ; mix into it two ounces of warm 



440 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

butter, one ounce of ratafia biscuit crumbs, the finely-chopped peel of 
one lemon, three raw yolks of eggs and the whites of same that have 
first been well beaten up with a whisk ; stir all together and pour into a 
plain timbal mould that has been well buttered and sprinkled with 




finely-shredded blanched almonds and dried cocoanut ; steam the pudding 
for one and a half hours (see page 433). When cooked turn out the 
pudding on to a hot dish on a dish-paper, and have an iced compote of 
cherries (see recipe) handed in a sauceboat, and serve for a dinner sweet. 

Little Nicolo Puddings 
Petits Poudings d la Nicolo 

Take two and a half ounces of freshly-made white breadcrumbs and 
one ounce of finely-chopped almonds, steep these in rather better than 
half a pint of lemon mixture as below for a quarter of an hour ; then 
mix with four whole well-beaten eggs, one ounce of warm butter, two 
ounces of castor sugar, and pour into little dariol moulds that are well- 
buttered and ornamented all over with little rounds of French plums, 
dried cherries and angelica that are stamped out about the size of a 
threepenny-piece and well pressed to the side of the mould ; steam the 
puddings for about three-quarters of an hour (see page 433). Then 
turn out and serve with a puree of any kind of iced fruit round them. 
Serve hot for dinner or luncheon sweet. 

Lemon Mixture for Little Nicolo Puddings. Put three-quarters 
of a pint of single cream in a pan with the finely-chopped peel of two 
lemons ; let it boil for ten minutes, then pour on to the breadcrumbs ; 
add the strained juice of the lemons and use. 

Parfait Pudding 
Ponding Parfait 

Put into a basin two ounces of fresh butter and work it to a 
Creamy consistency, add two ounces of vanilla sugar and work together 



OF EXTRA RECIPES-HOT SWEETS AND rUDDINGS 441 

for about ten minutes ; then add a tablespoonful of black coffee, one 
teaspoonful of vanilla essence, two and a half ounces of vanilla biscuit- 
crumbs, one ounce of Marshall's Creme de Biz, and five raw yolks of eggs ; 
when well mixed up add the whites of the eggs that have been whipped 
stiff, with a pinch of salt ; then put it into a buttered mould that is lined 
with a buttered paper, and dusted over with biscuit-crumbs and castor 
sugar ; steam it for eighty minutes (see page 433), then turn out and 
serve with hot Chocolate sauce (vol. i.) round the dish. Serve at once 
for a sweet for dinner or luncheon. 



Princess Pudding 
Pouding d la Princesse 

Put half a pint of warm cream on the crumb of two French rolls, add 
two ounces of castor sugar, the finely-chopped peel of a lemon, a pinch 
of ground ciunamon, half a wineglass of Marshall's Maraschino Syrup, 
and the same of orange-flower water; beat up four eggs with a fork 
and add to the other ingredients. Take a plain Charlotte mould, and 
butter it well with cold butter ; then line it all over with buttered fools- 
cap paper cut to fit the mould ; stone some French plums, press them 
out smoothly, and stamp them out with a plain round cutter about the 
size of a sixpenny-piece, also cut out in the same way some angelica or 
greengages and line the papered mould all over with these pieces ; then 
pour in the pudding mixture, and steam for about one and a quarter 
hours (see page 433), when it should be quite firm ; turn out on to a hot 
dish, remove the paper, and serve round the pudding a good Apricot 
or Pistachio sauce (vol. i. page 30). 

Lemon Cream Pudding 

I 'niiding au Creme de Citron 

Put four ounces of butter into a basin and work it till quite white 
with a wooden spoon or the hand; then add six ounces of castor 
sugar and work again for about ten minutes with the finely-chopped peel 
of three lemons and the strained juice of two, add four ounces of fine 
flour and five raw yolks of eggs by degrees ; then mix in' the whites of 
the eggs whipped stiff, and the eighth of an ounce of Cowan's Baking 
Powder j then put it into a plain mould that is buttered and dusted over 
with browned breadcrumbs, and steam for rather better than one hour 
(see page 433) ; turn out on a hot dish. Have iced lemon cream sauce 
handed in a sauceboat. 



442 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

Lemon Cream Sauce for Pudding. Take the finely-chopped peel 
of two lemons, put it into two and a half gills of milk, bring to the boil, 
and infuse for about fifteen minutes in the bain-marie ; then mix with 
two ounces of castor sugar ; when dissolved and cool mix it with half 
a pint of cream, put into the charged freezing-machine, freeze and then 
serve. 

Sago Pudding a la Francaise 
Ponding de Sagou & la Frangaise 

Put into a stewpan one and a half ounces of castor sugar, three and 
a half gills of new milk, the finely-chopped peel of a lemon, and one and a 
half ounces of good butter ; bring this to the boil, then mix into it three 
ounces of French packet sago ; stir again over the fire until the contents 
boil, then cook slowly for ten to fifteen minutes and let the mixture 
cool, and mix well into it two whole raw eggs and two whites of egg ; 




put into a turban mould (or any other mould with a pipe) which has been 
brushed over with warm butter, then dusted over with fine flour and 
castor sugar mixed in equal quantities, and steam the pudding (see 
page 433) for one hour. When cooked, turn out and serve hot, with 
the sauce, prepared as below, around the base and in the centre, for a 
dinner sweet or for luncheon. 

Sauce for Sago Pudding A la Francaise. Put into a stewpan half 
a pint of water, one and a half ounces of castor sugar, two tablespoon- 
fuls of finely-cut pineapple, and the peel of half a lemon very finely 
chopped ; bring this to the boil, then mix into it till smooth one ounce 
of the best arrowroot that has been mixed with the strained juice of a 
lemon and an orange, and two gills of pineapple or other fruit syrup ; 
stir these till boiling, add a few drops of carmine, then use. 



Eggs with. Pistachio Nuts 
CEnfs mix Pistaches 

Put half a pint of cream into a stewpan with two ounces of castor 
sugar and the very finely- chopped peel of one lemon ; place the stewpan 
in the bain-marie, and let it remain for half an hour on the side of the 
stove ; put into another stewpan one ounce of fine flour, and one ounce 



OF EXTEA RECIPES HOT SWEETS AND PUDDINGS 443 

of butter, mix together till smooth, then add the cream mixture, and 
stir till it boils ; have six good whole eggs beaten up with a fork, flavour 
with one tablespoonful of orange-flower water and a few drops of essence 
of vanilla, add three ounces of finely-shredded and blanched pistachio 
nuts, and eight or ten drops of Marshall's Sap Green, and pour this with 
the cream mixture into a buttered saute pan ; stir with a wooden spoon 
for two or three minutes over the fire until thick and like a batter, 
then turn out on to the dish on which it is to be served ; cover over 
with meringue mixture (vol. i.), forming roses of it with a forcing bag 
and large rose pipe (see design, Asperges a la Princesse), then dust over 
with icing sugar, and put into the oven on a tin containing boiling 
water ; when a pretty fawn colour and crisp on the top, sprinkle here 
and there some shredded pistachio nuts, and serve quite hot for a dinner 
or luncheon sweet. 

Omelet with. Apricot Jam 
Omelette au Confiture d'Abricots 

Break four eggs into a basin, and beat them up with three table- 
spoonfuls of milk, an ounce of castor sugar, a few drops of essence of 
vanilla or other flavouring ; put one and a half ounces of fresh butter in 
an omelet-pan, and when it is hot pour in the omelet mixture, and fry a 
nice golden colour, keeping the mixture well mixed ; then spread on one 
half of it two tablespoonfuls of apricot jam, turn the other half over the 
jam with a palette-knife, and turn the omelet on to a hot dish, dust it 
over with icing sugar, glaze it with a hot salamander, and serve with hot 
Apricot sauce round, and use for a dinner or luncheon sweet. 



Jam Omelet 
Omelette a/u Confiture 

Take four large whole raw egg*, break them in a basin and sweeten 
with one ounce of castor sugar, add the finely-chopped peel of one lemon, 
a few drops of vanilla essence, two tablespoonfuls of new milk, and one 
ounce of butter, broken small ; mix up all together with a fork till quite 
smooth, then put into a steel omelet-pan, and cook as usual, and then 
mask one half of the inside with any nice jam, and roll up the omelet 
into a half-moon shape ; turn out on a hot dish, then dust over with 
Marshall's Icing Sugar, and with a red-hot flat skewer mark the omelet 
in cross-formed bars ; pour a little brandy round, if wished, and light it 
as it goes to table. Use for luncheon or for a dinner sweet. 



444 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK- 

Strawberry Omelet 

Omelette mix Fraises 

Take five whole raw eggs and break them in a basin, add two ounces 
of castor sugar, a teaspoonful of vanilla essence, the very finely-chopped 
peel of one lemon, a tiny pinch of ground cinnamon, a tablespoonful of 
Maraschino liqueur or syrup, same of rum, mix up together with a fork 
till the mixture runs smooth, then put into a steel omelet-pan with one 
and a half ounces of butter, making the butter hot first, and fry in the 
usual way ; when ready to turn, fill up the inside with a compote of 
strawberries as below, and then finish oS the omelet in the usual manner, 
turning it out on a hot dish ; then dust over with Marshall's Icing Sugar, 
using a dredger for the purpose, and then mark a cross with a red-hot 
skewer in three or four places ; when going to table pour about a half- 
gill of rum or brandy on the dish and light it just as it is to be passed 
on the table, and serve for dinner or luncheon for a hot sweet. 

Compote of Strawberries for inside Omelet. Take a half-pint 
of good fresh strawberries, pick off the stalks, and cut the fruit, if large 
in halves or into three or four pieces ; mix with a tablespoonful of some 
liqueur and a tablespoonful of apricot jam that has been boiled, with a 
tablespoonful of strawberry pulp and one ounce of icing sugar, then 
colour with a few drops of carmine, flavour with a few drops of vanilla 
essence, stir up altogether, and then use. Raspberries and currants are 
nice used in the same way. 

Souffle Omelet a la Francaise 
Omelette Soujflee d la Franpiisr 

Put seven raw yolks of eggs into a basin, with eight ounces of castor 
sugar, a pinch of salt, two ounces of powdered ratafias or macaroons (that 
have been rubbed through a sieve), the finely -chopped peel of two lemons, 
two tablespoonfuls of orange-flower water, a saltspoonful of vanilla essence, 
and two ounces of shredded blanched pistachio nuts ; work these with a 
wooden spoon for fifteen minutes, then add ten raw whites of eggs that 
have been whipped very stiff, with a tiny pinch of salt ; the whites must 
be mixed in very carefully with the least possible working, or they will 
curdle. Butter a deep dish, place a buttered paper inside it, and then 
pour in the mixture ; dust over with icing sugar, and bake in a hot 
oven for twenty-five to thirty minutes ; then dust over again with icing 
sugar, and sprinkle over it some blanched and shredded pistachio nuts. 
Surround the dish with a folded napkin, and serve on a hot dish, on a 



OF EXTRA RECIPES HOT SWEETS AND PUDDINGS 445 

paper, for dinner or luncheon. The quantities given above are sufficient 
for ten to twelve people. If a silver dish is used, it must be placed in a 
deep tin containing boiling water in the oven. 

Meletti Souffle* 
Souffle & la Meletti 

Put into a basin four raw yolks of eggs, a saltspoonful of vanilla 
essence, two and a half ounces of castor sugar, two ounces of ratafia 
biscuit-crumbs, and the finely-chopped peels of two lemons ; work these 
together for about ten minutes, then add eight whites of eggs that have 
been whipped stiff, with a pinch of salt, mixing them with a wooden 
spoon ; put the souffle out on a slightly buttered deep dish and place a 
buttered paper round it ; mark the mixture with a knife, and dust over 
the top with icing sugar, using a dredger for the purpose ; place it in a 
moderate oven, and bake for twenty-five to thirty minutes ; remove the 
paper, and serve at once. If a silver dish is used for cooking the souffle 
in, stand it in the oven in a tin containing boiling water to cook. Jam 
can be served round the souffle if liked. 



Vanilla Souffle with Pineapple 
Sovffle Vanille mux Ananas 

Put four ounces of castor sugar into a stewpan, with three and a half 
ounces of good butter, one and a half ounces of Marshall's Creme de Riz, 
one and a half ounces of fine flour, and five raw yolks of eggs ; mix with 
three gills of cold milk (that has been brought to the boil with a split 
vanilla pod in it, and then stood in the bain-marie for about fifteen to 
twenty minutes), eight drops of saffron yellow, one and a half tablespoon- 
fuls of brandy, and ten drops of essence of pineapple ; stir over the fire 
till it boils ; then add nine ounces of finely-chopped cooked pineapple, 
two large tablespoonfuls of pineapple syrup, and seven whites of eggs 
which have been whipped stiff with a pinch of salt ; butter a souffle dish, 
and place a band of folded, buttered kitchen paper round it, so that the 
paper stands three inches above the edge of the case, then pour in the 
mixture ; dust it over with icing sugar, and place in a moderate oven to 
bake for three-quarters of an hour ; when cooked remove from the oven, 
take off the paper, pin a folded napkin or gilt paper band round the 
dish, and sprinkle the souffle with chopped pistachio nuts and chopped 
almonds, coloured with a little carmine. Serve hot on a dish with a 
dish-paper for a dinner or luncheon sweet. 



446 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

Chocolate Souffle 
Souffle au Chocolat 

Cut six ounces of Fry's Caracas Chocolate finely, and put it into a 
stewpan with one and a half gills of cold milk ; stir over the fire till the 
mixture boils ; then let it simmer gently for about ten minutes, and 
add sufficient milk to make the whole measure nearly one pint ; put into 
a larger stewpan three ounces of butter, a quarter-pound of castor sugar, 
five raw yolks of eggs, a saltspoonful of vanilla essence, two and a half 
ounces of fine flour, and one and a half ounces of Marshall's Creme de Riz ; 
mix these altogether with the prepared chocolate, adding the latter by 
degrees, so as to get the mixture quite smooth ; stand the stewpan 
on the fire, and continue stirring until the contents boil ; mix in a 
wineglassful of brandy or any other liqueur and the same of orange- 
flower water ; then add to it the stiffly-whipped whites of eight eggs 
(that have been seasoned with a pinch of salt before whipping), but do 
not mix the souffle more than necessary after adding the whites. 

Prepare a souffle dish for baking the mixture as for ' Vanilla Souffle,' 
then pour in the mixture, and place the dish on a baking-tin in a mode- 
rate oven, and cook as for c Vanilla Souffle.' When the souffle is cooked 
take it up, remove the band of paper, and place in its stead a gilt paper 
band or a clean folded napkin ; sprinkle the top with a little blanched and 
finely-shredded pistachios, and serve at once on a hot dish on a napkin 
or dish-paper, with cold Chocolate sauce (see recipe) in a boat. 



Rice Cream Souffle* Iced Orange Sauce 
Souffle de Creme de Riz Sauce a" Oranges Froide 

Put into a stewpan two and a half ounces of castor sugar, the finely- 
chopped peel of one lemon, three ounces of butter, and one ounce of fine 
flour ; mix this with three ounces of Marshall's Creme de Riz, three gills 
of cold milk, the raw yolks of four eggs, and a saltspoonful of vanilla 
essence ; stir all together into a smooth paste, then place the stewpan on 
the stove and continue stirring till the contents boil. Remove from the 
stove, then add half a gill of cold milk and the whites of five fresh eggs 
that have been stiffly whipped with a pinch of salt ; prepare a souffle 
dish as for Vanilla Souffle, and pour in the prepared mixture ; put a few 
little pieces of butter on the top, place the dish on a baking-tin, and cook 
as for Vanilla Souffle, when it should be a nice golden colour. When 
cooked take up, remove the paper, and replace it with an ornamental 



OF EXTRA RECIPES HOT SWEETS AND PUDDINGS 447 

gilt band, sprinkle the souffle with blanched and shredded pistachio nuts, 
dish up on a napkin, and serve at once for a hot sweet for dinner or 
luncheon with Iced Orange sauce (see Sauces) handed in a sauceboat. 

Apricot Pudding 
Pouding d'Abricots 

Put into a basin half a pound of good butter with the finely-chopped 
peel of one lemon and as much ground cinnamon as will cover a three- 
penny-piece, and a saltspoonful of Marshall's Apricot Yellow ; work these 
together with a clean wooden spoon for about ten minutes, then add half 
a pound of fine castor sugar, and work these together again for about five 
minutes, and by degrees add half a pound of whole fresh eggs and half a 
pound of fine flour that has been passed through a wire sieve, mixing these 
into the other ingredients thus : one egg and a tablespoon'ful of flour 
sprinkled in until all are united ; to this add four preserved apricots that 
have been cut up in little dice shapes, and half an ounce of Cowan's 
Baking Powder. Take a plain or fancy timbal mould with a pipe, butter 
it well with warmed butter by means of a paste-brush, and while the 




butter is warm sprinkle it all over with browned breadcrumbs, and then 
three parts fill the mould with the prepared mixture ;* place in the pipe 
a band of buttered paper in which a peeled potato or carrot is placed, to 
prevent the mixture running away through the pipe, and fix also a band 
of buttered paper round the outside of the mould, and standing about 
three inches above it. Put the pudding into a moderate oven on a baking- 
tin and bake it for rather better than one hour ; turn out on a pastry rack 
with a dish under it and pour over it some Maraschino syrup (vol. i. 
page 42), then dish the pudding up on a hot dish, on which it has to be 
served, and cover it entirely with yellow Apricot sauce (see recipe), 
pouring some of the sauce also round the base of the dish ; sprinkle lightly 
over it some finely-shredded blanched almonds and pistachio nuts, and 
serve. Enough for eight to ten persons. 



448 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

Pudding a la Bourne ville 
Ponding d la Bourneville 

Take half a pound of freshly-grated cocoanut, two ounces of freshly- 
made white breadcrumbs, the finely-chopped peel of one large lemon, 
three-quarters of a pint of cream, four whole eggs, half a pint of new 
milk, and mix them all together with a whisk ; then pour the mixture 
into a buttered pie-dish, and place it in a moderate oven for about one 
hour, when the contents should be set like a custard ; whip stiffly four 
or five whites of eggs with a pinch of salt, then mix in half a pound of 
castor sugar, and put this into a forcing bag with a large rose pipe ; then 
force it out on to the top of the pudding, completely covering it, place it 
in a moderate oven till a pretty fawn colour, then garnish with cut dried 
cherries and angelica, and sprinkle round the edge some blanched and 
finely-shredded pistachio nuts. 

Little Creams a la Marguerite 
Petit es Cr ernes d la Marguerite 

Rub some little ballette moulds over with butter, dust them over with 
biscuit crumbs, and fill them with a chocolate custard prepared as below ; 
stand them on a fold of paper in a stewpan, placing them in some small 
bouche moulds to keep them upright ; pour round them sufficient boiling 
water to cover three parts the depth of the moulds ; place the cover on the 
pan and let the contents poach in a moderate oven till firm ; then take 
them up, turn out of the moulds, cut a small piece off the bottom of each 
to enable them to stand upright, arrange them on a cool waxed baking-tin 
and by means of a forcing bag with a plain pipe mask them over with 
meringue mixture (vol. i. page 325), dust each over with icing sugar and 
put them in a moderate oven for about half an hour, when they should 
be a nice golden colour ; dish up and serve with Apricot (vol. i. page 29) 
or other sweet sauce round the dish, either hot or cold. 

Chocolate Custakd for Little Creams A la Marguerite. Break 
five whole fresh eggs into a basin, add two ounces of castor sugar, a tea- 
spoonful of vanilla essence, one tablespoonful of cooking brandy and one 
and a half gills of thick cream ; mix together with a fork till the mixture 
runs quite smooth, then tammy, add two tablespoonfuls of chocolate puree 
as below, then use. Put into a stewpan a quarter-pound of finely-cut 
Fry's Caracas Chocolate and half a pint of warm water ; stir till boiling, 
simmer for fifteen minutes, stirring frequently, and when quite smooth 
use. 



OF EXTRA RECIPES HOT SWEETS AND PUDDINGS 449 

Bread Pudding a l'Anglaise 
Ponding de Pain a VAnglaise 

Take three ordinary-sized French rolls, cut them into thin slices, and 
place them in a basin ; pour over them four ounces of butter that has 
been warmed, and sprinkle lightly with ground ginger and finely-chopped 
lemon peel. Make one pint of single cream hot, and mix with it four 
ounces of castor sugar, six thoroughly beaten-up whole eggs, a wine- 
glassful of cooking brandy, a tablespoonful of orange-flower water, and 
two ounces of macaroons that have been pounded till smooth ; mix all 
these ingredients together with the other mixture ; then take a fancy or 
plain mould without a pipe, brush over the inside with warm butter, and 
dust this over with fine flour and castor sugar mixed together in equal 
quantities ; put the prepared mixture into the mould, and then place it 
on a baking-tin on which is a thin layer of salt, to prevent the bottom 
of the pudding getting too dark a colour ; put the pudding in a moderate 
oven and bake for one hour and a quarter, when it should be a nice 
golden colour ; then take up and turn out carefully on to a hot dish, and 
serve with Pistachio sauce (vol. i. page 30), or any other nice sauce round 
for a dinner or luncheon sweet. 

Apricots a la Conde 
Apricots a la Conde 

Put a half-pound of Carolina rice in a saucepan with enough cold 
water to cover it, let it come to the boil, then strain and wash in cold 
water and put it back into the. saucepan, adding a little finely-cut lemon 
peel or half a stick of vanilla pod split, one and a half pints of new milk, 




two ounces of castor sugar, and one ounce of fresh butter ; when it comes to 
the boil cover over with a piece of buttered paper cut to fit the pan ; let 
it simmer gently without being stirred till it has nearly absorbed all 
the milk, then add another quarter of a pint of milk, when the rice is 

G a 



450 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

quite cooked and all the grains are separate have a Breton or wide round 
border mould well buttered and press the rice well down into the shape ; 
have a saute pan with about one pint of boiling water in it and stand 
the border in it, then place it in the oven for about fifteen minutes. 
When the rice is dry at the top turn it out on to the dish it is to be 
served on, have a hot compote of apricots ready, and place them neatly 
on the top of the rice ; garnish between the halves of the apricots with 
shreds of un crystallised cherries and narrow strips of uncrystallised 
angelica that is cut in lengths of two and a half to three inches, place 
the angelica round the edge of the rice and serve Apricot sauce (vol. i.) 
round the base of the dish and use for a hot sweet. 



Pears a la Victoria 

Poires a la Victoria 

Peel and core about two pounds of stewing pears if small, use them 
whole ; if large, cut in halves or quarters put them in a stewpan with a 
quart of cold water, the peel of a lemon, one pound of loaf sugar, and a 
little of Marshall's Liquid Carmine ; bring quickly to the boil, skim and 
simmer for about an hour, or longer if not tender ; take up the pears and 
boil the syrup till reduced to the consistency of cream. Butter a plain 
border mould and line it with buttered paper and place in it three penny 
sponge cakes, each cut in three pieces ; fill up the mould with a mixture 
made of two and a half eggs, a quarter-pint of milk or cream, the finely- 
chopped peel of a lemon, one and a half ounces of castor sugar, and a few 
drops of carmine, to make it a reddish colour ; stand the mould in a 
baking-tin which has a little water in it, put a buttered paper over the top, 
and cook in the oven till firm ; turn it out on to a hot dish on which it 
has to be served, arrange the pears on this border, and strain the syrup 
all over the pears and round the dish. Use for a dinner or luncheon 
sweet. 

Baked Gooseberry Pudding 

Ponding de Groseilles au Pour 

Pick and wash some fresh gooseberries, and put them in a covered 
bain-marie pan ; place this in the oven, and cook the gooseberries to a 
pulp ; rub through a fine hair sieve, and to each pint add one and a half 
ounces of warm, fresh butter, five ounces of castor sugar, a quarter of a 
pound of vanilla biscuit crumbs, or sponge-cake crumbs, or dried bread- 
crumbs, and two whole large eggs or three small eggs that have been 
well beaten up with a whisk, and stir these together till cool. Butter a 



OF EXTRA RECIPES HOT SWEETS AND PUDDINGS 451 

pie-dish, sprinkle it over with some dried crumbs and castor sugar, then 
pour in the prepared mixture, and bake in a moderate oven till it is set, 
which will take about three-quarters of an hour ; when cooked, take up, 
place the pie-dish on a napkin or dish-paper, dust over the top of the 
pudding with icing sugar, and serve hot or cold. Whipped cream may 
be served in a separate dish, if liked, Khubarbcan be used in the same 
way. 

Little Croustades a la Marquise 
Petites Croustades d la Marquise 

Lightly rub the insides of some croustade or bouche moulds with 
butter, and thinly line them with short paste for tarts (vol. i.), and cook 
them as for ' Princess Tartlets,' and then dust the insides over with a 
little castor sugar, and return them again to the oven to dry the insides; 




partly fill the cases with the prepared pistachio custard, place half a 
cooked apricot or peach on the top of each, place on this half an un- 
crystallised cherry, pour Apricot sauce (vol. i.) round the dish, and serve 
while hot for dinner or luncheon. 

Pistachio Custard for Little Croustades a la Marquise. Put 
into a stewpan one ounce of good butter, one ounce of fine flour, one 
ounce of castor sugar, and one and a half gills of new milk ; stir till it 
boils, then add two raw yolks of eggs that have been mixed with a 
tablespoonful of brandy, the same of Maraschino, and two ounces of 
blanched and shredded pistachio nuts ; colour with a few drops of 
Marshall's Sap Green, add a few drops of vanilla essence, stir altogether 
over the fire till the mixture thickens, but do not let it boil, and then 
use. 

Pudding a la Clausen 
Pouding d la Clausen 

Take one pint of new milk, and put it to boil with two ounces of 
finely-chopped fresh beef-suet ; then pour it into a basin on to three 
ounces of freshly-made white breadcrumbs, one ounce of finely-chopped 
almonds, the finely-chopped peel of three oranges, two ounces of Marshall's 
Creme de Biz, and two ounces of castor sugar mix with four whole well- 



452 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

beaten eggs, and then pour the mixture into any fancy mould without a 
pipe, first buttering this well, and then sprinkling it all over with finely- 
shredded lemon and orange peel and desiccated cocoa-nut. Tie the 
pudding over with a cloth, and cook it in a saucepan with boiling- water 
for two and a half to three hours ; when cooked, take up, remove the 
cloth, and turn out the pudding on to a hot dish. Serve with cold 
Orange sauce (see recipe) in a sauceboat. 



Boiled Batter Pudding 
Pouding BouiUi 

Put into a basin two and a half ounces of warm butter, a teaspoonful 
of castor sugar, the very finely-chopped peel of one lemon, a saltspoonful 
of vanilla essence, and three and a half ounces of finely-sifted flour ; mix 
these by degrees with three large or four small whole eggs, and three 
gills of new milk, stirring it into a perfectly smooth batter. Have a 
basin well buttered and dusted over with castor sugar and finely-chopped 
raw or candied lemon-peel ; pour the batter into it, tie it over with a 
floured cloth, stand it in a stewpan with sufficient boiling water to cover 
it, and let it boil for one and a half hours, during which time occasionally 
turn the pudding round. When cooked, take up, remove the cloth, 
loosen the pudding from the basin with a knife, and turn it out on to a 
hot dish. Serve either plainly or with Apricot sauce (vol. i.) or any 
other nice jam sauce, for a dinner or luncheon sweet. Care must be 
taken that the pudding is sent to the table very hot. 

Chocolate Ballettes 
Ballettes au Ghocolat 

Put into a stewpan half a pint of water, one ounce of castor sugar, 
four ounces of butter, and the finely-chopped peel of one lemon ; bring 
to the boil, then add three ounces of fine flour, one ounce of Marshall's 
Creme de Riz, and one ounce of Fry's Caracas Chocolate grated ; mix up 
well, and cook on the side of the stove for about ten minutes, stirring 
occasionally ; then remove from the fire, and let the mixture cool ; add 
the raw yolks of three large eggs, working the mixture well ; mix in half 
an ounce of Cowan's Baking Powder, then add four whites of eggs that 
have been whipped quite stiff, with a pinch of salt, but do not work the 
mixture much after these have been added. Put some clean, hot lard 
in a stewpan, and with a forcing bag and large plain pipe force the 
mixture into it, cutting the paste in pieces about one inch long by means 



OF EXTRA RECIPES HOT SWEETS AND PUDDINGS 453 

of a sharp knife ; let the ballettes fry until they have risen to two or three 
times their original size, and are like little souffles ; then take them up on 
a pastry rack, and drain ; make a little hole in the centre of each with 
a small knife, and with a forcing bag and plain pipe fill up the insides 
with very stiffly- whipped cream that is lightly sweetened and flavoured 
with vanilla ; arrange the ballettes in a pile on the dish, and serve with 
Vanilla Chocolate sauce (see recipe) over them. Serve very hot for a 
dinner or luncheon sweet. 



Profiteroles a la Bisentz 
Prqfiteroles d la Bisentz 

Put into a clean stewpan two ounces of butter, two ounces of castor 
sugar, four tablespoonfuls of rose-water, and about eight drops of vanilla 
essence j add to this three ounces of Marshall's Creme de Riz that have 
been previously stirred in a gill of cold milk ; mix all together into a 
smooth paste, stir over the fire till it boils, then draw the pan to the side 
of the stove and let the contents cook for five minutes, giving them an 
occasional stir while cooking ; remove the pan from the fire, let the 
mixture cool, add to it three whole raw eggs and four ounces of finely- 
chopped blanched almonds, and work these together till they become of 
a perfectly smooth consistency ; then put the mixture into a large forcing 
bag with a medium-sized plain pipe. Have some clean boiling fat in a 
pan over a quick fire, and force the mixture into this in lengths of about 
an inch, cutting each portion off with a knife ; then cook them till a 
pretty golden colour, turning them about whilst cooking ; take them up 
with a slice, dust them over with castor sugar, dish them up on a hot 
dish on a paper, sprinkle over with chopped coloured blanched almonds 
or pistachios, and serve for a dinner or luncheon sweet. The quantities 
given are sufficient for eight to ten people. 

Apples a la Franpaise 
Pommes a la Francaise 

Take one pound of good cooking apples, peel and slice them, and 
put them into a stewpan with two ounces of castor sugar, one ounce 
of butter, the finely-chopped peel of a lemon, and the juice from the 
same, and a quarter-pint of water ; boil these together till tender, rub 
through a wire sieve, and mix with the puree six ounces of ratafia biscuit- 
crumbs, three raw yolks of eggs, half a wineglassful of Maraschino syrup 
and a teaspoonful of vanilla essence ; stir all together over the fire till it 



r 



454 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

thickens, then divide it into portions, and roll up into balls about the 
size of a walnut ; roll each into fine flour, whole beaten-up egg. and 
freshly-made white breadcrumbs, and fry them in a basket in clean 
boiling lard till a pretty golden colour ; then dish up in a pile on a hot 
dish, and serve for a sweet for dinner or luncheon. Custard or clotted 
cream can be handed with them. 



Rice Cream Beignets 
Beignets de Crdme de Riz 

Put six ounces of butter into a basin, and work it with the hand or 
a wooden spoon till it presents a creamy appearance ; then add to it eight 
ounces of Marshall's Creme de Riz, six ounces of castor sugar, and a 
quarter of an ounce of ground cinnamon ; work these all together for 
about fifteen minutes, then add to it by degrees six whole raw eggs and 
half a pound of finely-sifted flour, adding one tablespoonful of flour and 
one egg at a time till the whole is well mixed ; flavour it with a salt- 
spoonful of vanilla essence, and, when about to cook the mixture, add 
to it one and a half gills of new cold milk and one ounce of Cowan's 
Baking Powder. Put a pan containing some clean boiling fat on the 
stove, put the mixture in a forcing bag with a plain pipe and force it 
out into the fat in portions about half the size of a walnut (cutting 
the mixture with a knife when the desired size) ; fry the beignets for 
eight to ten minutes, when they should be a nice brown colour; 
then remove them from the fat, drain them on a pastry rack, sprinkle 
them over with a little castor sugar and finely-chopped pistachio nuts, 
dish them up in a pile on a paper on a hot dish, and serve quite hot 
for a dinner or luncheon sweet. The quantities given above are suffi- 
cient for eight to ten people. 

Beignets a la Victoria 
Beignets a la Victoria 

Put into a stewpan one pint of new milk, two ounces of castor sugar, 
the finely-chopped peel of one lemon, one ounce of butter ; bring to the 
boil, then stir into it four ounces of corn-flour that have been mixed 
with a quarter-pint of cold milk ; bring to the boil, stirring all the 
time, and then simmer on the side of the stove for about five minutes, 
and add to it three raw yolks of eggs and the whites of the same that 
are whipped stiff with a pinch of salt, and an eighth of an ounce of 
Cowan's Baking Powder : put the mixture into a forcing bag with a 



OF EXTRA RECIPES HOT SWEETS AND PUDDINGS 455 

large plain pipe, and force out in the form of rings about two inches 
in diameter on to the frying-drainer and put into the frying-kettle, 
having in it enough hot clean fat to cover the beignets, and fry over 
a quick fire for about fifteen minutes when a nice golden colour take 
up and dust over with icing sugar, and hold over the beignets a red 
hot salamander to give a nice glazed appearance. Arrange on a hot dish 
on a paper or napkin in a pile and sprinkle on the top some blanched 
and finely-shredded almonds, and here and there put some uncrystallised 
cherries, and serve for a sweet for dinner or luncheon. 



Pastry Straws 
Pailles Patisserie* 

Take some choux paste (vol. i.), put it into a forcing bag with a 
medium-sized pipe, and force it out in finger-lengths on a frying-drainer, 
then put into hot clean fat and fry till a nice golden colour. When 
cooked take up and roll each piece in coarse castor sugar, and dish up 
en couronne on a dish-paper and serve for a hot sweet for dinner or 
luncheon. Orange or any other nice sweet sauce can be served in a 
sauceboat with these. 

Apricot Fritters 
Fritot d'Abricots 

Take the ripe or tinned apricots and put them in a basin, with a 
dust of castor sugar and a few drops of brandy or rum ; dip them one 
by one in frying batter (vol. i.), and fry in clean boiling fat till a pretty 
golden colour ; take up and drain, and put them on a baking-tin, dust 
them over with a little icing sugar, and then glaze this with the hot 
salamander. Serve hot on a dish-paper for dinner or luncheon. 



Fried Rolls a la Francaise 
Fritot de Pain a la Frangaise 

Take some new French rolls and cut them into slices about a quarter 
of an inch thick, sprinkle them lightly with lemon-juice, finely-chopped 
lemon-peel, and castor sugar ; leave them so for about a quarter of an 
hour, then dip them into whole beaten-up raw eggs, and fry them in 
clean, boiling lard till a pretty golden colour ; then take them up on a 
pastry rack to drain, dust them well over with icing sugar, place them 



456 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

on a hot baking-tin, and put them into a quick oven to get a bright, 
glazed appearance. Then take up, dish in a pile on a paper on a hot 
dish, sprinkle with blanched and finely-shredded pistachio nuts, and serve 
for a sweet for dinner or luncheon. 



Melon Fritters with Pistachios 
Fritot tie Melon aux Pistaches 

Feel a melon and cut it in nice long pieces about half an inch thick ; 
put these into a basin and sprinkle over them a little brandy or rum, a 
little chopped lemon peel and ground ginger ; then sprinkle this well 
with fine castor sugar, and let it remain for about one hour ; dip each 
piece in a nice light batter (vol. i.), and fry in clean boiling fat till a 
pretty golden colour ; then remove from the fat, dust over with icing 
sugar, and put into the oven on a hot baking-tin to glaze ; when ready, 
take up, sprinkle with finely-chopped pistachio nuts, and serve hot on a 
dish-paper or napkin for a sweet for dinner or luncheon. 

Fritters a la Saint Denis 
Fritot a la Saint Denis 

Take some nice ripe, fresh-gathered cherries, press them between the 
thumb and forefinger and with a skewer make a little hole in the top 
and force out the stone, passing the skewer straight through the fruit ; 
remove the kernels from the stones, put the fruit into a basin, and 
sprinkle with castor sugar, allowing two ounces for one pound of fruit, 
and about one tablespoonful of Marshall's Noyeau Syrup ; take some 
cut angelica in strips about two and a half inches long and about the 
thickness of a straw, and stick on each piece six or seven of the cherries. 
Then prepare some frying batter (vol. i.), dip each strip into it and 
drop them separately into clean boiling fat ; fry for about four to five 
minutes, turning them well during the frying, then take up and dust 
over with castor sugar ; dish up in a pile on a dish-paper and serve very 
hot for a dinner or luncheon dish. 



OF EXTRA RECIPES COLD FANCY SWEETS 



457 



CHAPTEB XII 
COLD FANCY SWEETS 



Spun Sugar 

Put half a pound of water and one pound of best cane loaf-sugar 
in a perfectly clean copper sugar-boiler or thick stewpan ; cover the 




SPINNING SUGAR 



pan over, bring to the boil, remove any scum as it rises from time to 
time, and continue boiling until the liquid forms a thick bubbled 



4:58 MES. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOEEEY BOOK 

appearance (commonly called the crack) ; then take a. small portion on a 
clean knife or spoon (or the finger may be used, but must be well 
wetted with cold water and used very quickly), and plunge it imme- 
diately into cold water, and if it is then quite brittle and leaves the 
knife or spoon or finger quite clear it is ready for spinning. If it clings 
or is at all soft or pliable, continue the boiling until as above. When 
ready take a small portion on a fork or spoon, and rapidly throw it to 
and fro over a slightly oiled rolling-pin ; continue until sufficient threads 
of sugar are obtained. 

Apricot Meringues 
Meringues d'Alrricots 

Take half a pound of finely sifted castor sugar, and mix with it a 
teaspoonful of Marshall's Apricot Yellow and a saltspoonful of Vanilla 
essence ; rub it well together and allow it to thoroughly dry. Put in a 
whipping-tin four large fresh whites of egg and a pinch of salt, whip 
them quite stiff, then add the prepared sugar by degrees, taking care not 
to stir the mixture more than possible after adding the sugar. Take a 
hot baking-tin, rub it all over with white wax, then leave it till cold ; 
put the meringue mixture into a forcing bag with a plain pipe and force 
it out on to the tin in portions of about the size of apricots, dust them 
over with castor sugar, and put into a moderate oven till quite dry and 
crisp on the top, but the under side should be somewhat soft ; then take 




them from the tin, and by means of an egg work a little well in the 
bottom of each, holding the top of the meringue in the hand ; return 
them to the tin and place them in the oven (care must be taken that 
the meringues are not hurried in the cooking or they will lose their 
colour) j when quite dry remove from the tin and set aside till cold, then 
place in each of the little wells a small round of cooked apricot ; 
place another meringue on the top of this, mask them over with 
Maraschino glace (vol. i.) coloured with a little apricot yellow, and 
dish up round a pile of stiffly-whipped cream sweetened and flavoured 
with vanilla ; serve as a dinner or luncheon sweet, or for any cold collation. 
These meringues can be kept ready for use if put in a dry place. 



OF EXTRA RECIPES COLD FANCY SWEETS 459 

American Meringues 

Meringues d V Americaine 

Prepare an almond icing (vol. i. page 41) and form it into little cone 
shapes ; place these on lightly waxed cool baking-tins, then mask over 
with the meringne mixture (as below), using two separate forcing bags and 
plain pipes for the purpose, and making them in two colours ; dust over 
the meringues with icing sugar and place them in the oven, which must 
be of verv moderate heat, for about one and a half to two hours, when 




they should be quite dry and a pretty pale colour ; put them aside till 
cold, then glaze over with Maraschino or Noyeau glace (vol. i.), one in 
red, one in white or brown colours, as liked ; let them dry again on a pastry 
rack, and then dish up on a dish-paper or napkin, and serve for a dinner 
or luncheon sweet or for any cold collation, or they can be served for 
dessert. They also form a nice sweet without the glace, being then 
served with whipped cream. 

Meringue Mixture for Meringues A l' Americaine. Put two 
whites of eggs into a pan with a pinch of salt and whip till quite stiff, 
then mix with a quarter of a pound of castor sugar ; place a similar 
quantity of eggs into another pan, add a few drops of carmine, whip 
till quite stiff, then mix with a quarter of a pound of castor sugar, and 
use. 

Mushroom Meringues 
Champignons Meringues 

Whip four whites of eggs very stiff with a pinch of salt, and mix 
with it half a pound of castor sugar, taking care not to work the eggs 
more than possible after the sugar is mixed in ; then put it into a forcing 
bag with a plain pipe about half an inch in diameter, and have two 
baking-tins warmed and rubbed over with a little white wax ; when the 
tins are cool, take one of them and force the meringues out on to it in 



460 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

little rounds for making the tops of the mushrooms, and then dust them 
over immediately with icing sugar, and put them in a very slow oven to 
dry for three or four hours. Put some more of the mixture in a forcing 
bag with a pipe about one-eighth of an inch in diameter, and force it out 
into shapes to form the stalks of the mushrooms, and then dust these 
over with icing sugar, and cook them in the same way as the others. 
When they are quite dry take the large pieces of meringue and make a 
little round hole about the size of a pea in the centre, using a small 
knife for the purpose ; force inside this a little Royal icing (vol. i.), and 
then very lightly brush over the part of the meringue that was on the 




baking-tin with a little raw white of egg, and dip it into some finely-grated 
Fry's Caracas Chocolate, and brush over the flat part of the larger pieces 
with a little raw white of egg, and then dip into powdered chocolate ; let 
this get quite dry, stick the small part of the meringue as a stalk into the 
space formed by the knife, and then dish up the mushrooms on a basket 
partly filled with spun sugar, artificial moss, or maidenhair fern-leaves, and 
serve for dessert, or the mushrooms can be dished up on a pile of very 
stiffly-whipped cream that is sweetened and flavoured with vanilla 
essence, which can be coloured, if liked, with a little carmine. The 
mushrooms, if kept in a dry place, will keep for a considerable time. 

Italian Meringues 

Mei'inr/iies a Vltalienne 

Put into a thick clean stewpan one pound of loaf-sugar and half 
a pound of clean water ; place the pan on the stove and boil the contents 
till into a perfectly thick syruplike cream, removing any scum as it 
rises to the surface with a clean iron spoon. Put into a whipping-tin 
or bowl eight fresh raw whites of eggs, add a pinch of salt and whip 
them as for ordinary meringues with a whisk till quite stiff, then add 



OF EXTRA RECIPES COLD FANCY SWEETS 461 

the syrup prepared as above, pouring it in by degrees and mixing it 
in very carefully. Put this mixture into a forcing bag with a large 
plain pipe and force it out into the desired shapes on to tins that have 
been rubbed over with white wax, and then set aside till cold. Dust 
the meringues over quite thickly with Marshall's Icing Sugar, using a 
dredger for the purpose ; put them in a very moderate oven and bake 
till a pale fawn colour and quite crisp and brittle, when they can easily 
be removed from the tin by means of a palette-knife ; take them up, and 
serve when cool with whipped cream, ices, &c. These meringues keep 
well if put in a clean box in a dry place, and the mixture may be 
coloured if liked, in which case a little of Marshall's Liquid Carmine 
should be added to the syrup when put on to boil. 

Little Mokas 
Petits Mokas 

Put into a Btewpan four whole fresh eggs, six ounces of castor sugar, 
the finely-chopped peel of one lemon, and a few drops of vanilla essence ; 
whip these over boiling water till warm, then remove the pan from the 
fire, and whip the contents till cold and thick. Have four ounces of 
fine flour passed through a sieve and warmed and mixed with the above 
ingredients, stirring the mixture as little as possible after the flour is 
added. Brush over a saute pan with warm butter, line it with a buttered 
paper, dust this over with fine flour and castor sugar mixed together in 




equal quantities, and then pour in the prepared mixture ; bake it in a 
moderate oven for half an hour, then turn it out of the pan and leave it 
till cold ; cut the cake into square pieces, and very lightly mask these 
over with Coffee icing (vol. i.), then dip each into almonds prepared as 
below, ornament the tops with Vienna icing (vol. i.) coloured with a 
little black coffee. Sprinkle with chopped pistachios, and dish up 
the mokas on a dish-paper as shown in the engraving, and serve for 
luncheon, dinner, &c. 

Almonds for Little Mokas. Take some blanched Valencia al- 
monds, cut them into small dice shapes, and bake till a nice golden colour. 



462 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER GOOKERY BOOK 

Fleur with Rhubarb a la Neige 
Fleur au Rhubarbe d la Neige 

Line a round fleur-tin about a quarter of an inch thick with puff 
paste (vol. i.) that has had six turns ; it will take about a quarter of a 
pound of paste for a fleur sufficiently large for six to eight people ; trim 
off the edges and prick the paste thoroughly at the bottom, then line 
it with a buttered piece of kitchen paper (putting the buttered side to 
the paste), and fill up the inside with raw rice ; put it to bake in a 
moderate oven for about thirty minutes, when the paste should be a 
pretty golden colour and crisp. Remove the paper and rice, also the 
fleur ring, and set the fleur aside till cold, then arrange some rhubarb 
compote in it, and mask it all over by means of a forcing-bag and plain 
pipe, with half a pint of cream that has been stiffly whipped with two 
ounces of castor sugar, and then flavoured with a few drops of vanilla 
essence, and arrange some poached meringue (see recipe) on the top of 
the cream ; sprinkle these alternately with finely-chopped blanched 
pistachio nuts and with chopped blanched sweet almonds that have been 
coloured with a little carmine, then dish the fleur on a silver dish and 
pour round the base some of the syrup from the rhubarb ; serve for a 
dinner or luncheon sweet. 

Acorns 

Glands 

Take some almond paste, prepared as below, and roll it out into 
lengths of about one inch, using a little icing sugar for the purpose ; 
form a little of the mixture into the shape of cups, to represent the 
bottoms of the acorns; press both together, lightly brush over the 
bottoms with a little raw white of egg, and dip them into some roughly- 




grated Fry's Caracas Chocolate ; brush the tops over with a little whole 
beaten-up raw egg, and brown them at once with a red-hot salamander ; 
join the two parts together with a little Royal icing (vol. i.), using a 
forcing bag and pipe for the purpose ; place each acorn in a little fancy- 
paper case, dish up on a dish-paper as shown in the engraving, and serve 



OF EXTRA RECIPES COLD FANCY SWEETS 463 

for dessert or with ice for a dinner sweet. These will keep good for a 
long time if kept in a box in a dry place. 

Almond Paste for Acorns. Take six ounces of ground almonds, 
half a pound of icing sugar, a teaspoonful of Maraschino syrup or 
liqueur, and six or eight drops of vanilla essence ; mix with two raw 
whites of eggs into a stiff dry paste and use. 

Slices of Pineapple Iced 

Tr<tndtes dl Ananas Glacees 

Take a nice ripe pine-apple, remove all the rind and specks with a 
small knife, cut it in halves and slices, and season with ground ginger 
and syrup as below ; sprinkle over with chopped preserved ginger and 
finely-shredded blanched pistachio nuts j dish up en couronne, pour the 
remainder of the syrup round the dish, and serve for a sweet for dinner 
or for any cold collation. 

Syrup for Pineapple. Take six ounces of loaf sugar, three- 
quarters of a pint of water, the peel of one lemon, a clove of ginger, and 
a piece of cinnamon an inch long ; boil to half the quantity, strain, and 
when cooling, add a good wineglassful of brandy ; set it in the charged 
ice cave till quite cold, and use. 



Fruit on Cakes a la Parisienne 
CroiUcs ini.r Wruite d la Parisienne 

Cut some brioche cake (vol. i. page 332) in slices about half an 
inch thick and stamp out in rounds about three inches in diameter, 
place them on a buttered tin, dust them over with icing sugar, and 




place them in the oven till quite crisp. Arrange on the croutes half 
peaches or sliced pineapple and dish them round the dish for a border, 
and pile up in the centre any nice macedoine of fruits (see recipe), such 



464 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

as cherries, strawberries, grapes skinned and stoned, or any other fruit 
you may have, and when ready to serve pour over all the fruits a puree 
of apricots or any other nice fruit. Garnish with spun sugar (see 
recipe) and serve for a dinner sweet, or for luncheon, or for a cold 
collation. 

Sauce for Fruit on Cakes A la Parisienne. One pot of apricot 
jam, four ounces of castor sugar, a saltspoonful of Marshall's Apricot 
Yellow, a saltspoonful of liquid carmine, a quarter of a pint of water ; 
boil altogether for about ten minutes, rub through a sieve or tammy, 
add a large wineglassful of Maraschino or Chartreuse liqueur and use. 



Strawberries in Surprise a 1'A.nglaise 
Fraises en Surprise d VAnglaise 

Take some fresh ripe strawberries, sprinkle them with a little castor 
sugar and a few drops of Maraschino or Chartreuse liqueur, and partly 
fill some little fancy paper cases with the fruit ; cover this entirely with 
stiffly-whipped cream, smooth the cream over with a knife, and then put 
some more of the same cream, but lightly coloured with a little liquid 
carmine, into a bag with a rose forcing pipe, and ornament the top of the 
white cream with the pink cream in any pretty design, and then garnish 
the cream here and there with blanched and finely-shredded pistachio 
kernels. The cases should be kept in the ice cave or refrigerator for 
about half an hour before serving. Cherries or other fruit can be served 
in the same way. This sweet makes a very pretty one for dinner, 
luncheon, or cold collation. 

Timbal a la Florence 
Timbale & la Florence 

Put rather better than half a pound of Valencia almonds into a stew- 
pan with sufficient cold water to cover them ; bring to the boil, then 
rinse them in cold water ; strain this off and rub them in a cloth to take 
off the skins ; chop up the almonds quite fine and put them into a stew- 
pan with half a pound of castor sugar, two tablespoonfuls of brandy, one 
tablespoonful of strained lemon juice, and sufficient of Marshall's Liquid 
Carmine to make it a nice red colour ; stir these all together over the fire 
for seven or eight minutes, when they will be almost dry ; then take a 
well-oiled Charlotte or square mould and arrange in it the above mixture 
about three-quarters of an inch thick, quickly pressing it to the mould 
with a slightly oiled lemon ; trim the top evenly, then put aside till 



OF EXTRA RECIPES COLD FANCY SWEETS 



465 



quite cold ; remove from the mould (loosening it with a small pointed 
knife), and put the almond case on a dish -paper on the dish in which it 
will be served ; fill up the inside with a Bavaroise mixture (vol. i. 
page 355), putting this into the case when it is beginning to set. Take 
some Vienna icing (vol. i.) flavoured with Fry's Caracas Chocolate in 




the proportion of one ounce of the chocolate to half a pound of icing 
sugar, and some more flavoured with vanilla essence ; put them separately 
into forcing bags with rose pipes, and ornament the case with these 
mixtures, as in engraving, then arrange some crystallised violets here 
and there on the icing these give a very pretty effect to the dish. 

When ornamented, put the timbal in a cold place for several hours 
to allow the icing to become set ; then serve for a dinner sweet, or for a 
ball supper, &c. 

Apples a la d'Orleans 
Pommes a la d'Orleans 

Peel and core two pounds of good cooking apples, and cut them into 
fine slices ; put these into a stewpan with two and a half gills of water, 
the strained juice of a lemon, the finely-cut peel of the same, and half a 




pound of loaf sugar ; stand the pan on the stove, cover it down, and let 
the contents boil gently till tender, then mix with them half an ounce 
of Marshall's Finest Leaf Gelatine ; let this dissolve, then colour with 

H H 



466 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

six or eight drops of sap green, and rub altogether through a tammy. 
Put a pint of lemon jelly (vol. i. page 351, that made with two ounces of 
Marshall's Gelatine to the quart) into a stewpan, and let it boil down 
to half the quantity, then mix it with the above prepared puree, pour 
out on to a dish in thickness about half an inch, and let it set ; then 
stamp it out in rounds about two inches in diameter with a plain 
round cutter. Prepare a vanilla cream as below, pour this also on to a 
dish to get cold, and when it is set stamp it out with the same cutter ; 
then arrange these and the rounds of apple puree alternately straight 
down the sides of the dish. Fill up the centre with coloured whipped 
cream ; place on the top, as in engraving, some compote of apples 
(as below) ; pour some cold Apricot sauce (vol. i.) round the base of 
the dish, garnish the corners of the dish with some of the cream used 
for the centre, using a bag and large rose pipe for the purpose. 
Serve for a sweet for dinner or for a ball-supper dish. 

Vanilla Cream for Apples A la d*Orleans. Mix half a pint 
of single cream with two ounces of castor sugar, and a split half pod of 
vanilla ; bring to the boil, stand the pan in the bain-marie for about 
ten minutes, then mix in not quite a quarter-ounce of gelatine, and 
when this is dissolved add two tablespoonfuls of Maraschino liqueur 
or syrup ; leave the mixture till cool, then pour in a saute pan to 
about a quarter of an inch in depth, sprinkle over it a few drops of 
liquid carmine, and draw a clean fork through it so as to give a 
mottled appearance to the cream ; then put aside till set, and use as 
directed. 

Compote for Apples A la d'Orleans. Peel and quarter some 
apples, which must be good cooking fruit, cook them in syrup (vol. i.) till 
tender and presenting a spongy appearance ; then take up, garnish the 
top side with little rounds of angelica and strips of dried cherries in the 
form of a star, and use. 

Crystallised Chestnuts in Cases 
Marrons Glao.es en Petites Gaisses 

Take half a pound of chestnuts that are weighed after being prepared 
by cutting off the tops, cooked for half an hour or longer in the oven till 
tender, and skinned and shelled ; pound them with one and a half ounces 
of good butter, and rub them through a wire sieve ; then mix them with 
three-quarters of a pound of Marshall's Finest Icing Sugar, a quarter of a 
pound of vanilla biscuit-crumbs, one large tablespoonful of thick cream, 
a teaspoonful of vanilla essence, two small or one large raw white of egg, 



OF EXTRA EECIPES COLD FANCY SWEETS 467 

one tablespoonful of brandy, and the same of orange-flower water ; mix 
into a smooth paste, and with a little icing sugar roll up into balls. Have 
some walnut moulds warmed and very slightly waxed with warm white 
wax, press the mixture into them and leave them in a cool place to dry for 
one and a half to two hours. Then turn out, and when cool mask them 
over with sugar boiled to the crack (see recipe, ' Spun Sugar'), sprinkle 
over them a little blanched and finely-shredded pistachio nuts. Put into 
little fancy cases, and serve for a sweet for dinner or luncheon, handed 
with ice or whipped cream, or for dessert, ball suppers, &c. 



Little Neva Balls 
Ballettes a la Neva 

Take some little ball bomb moulds, butter them well with cold 
butter, dust them over with ratafia biscuit crumbs, and partly fill with 
the mixture prepared as below ; place each of the moulds in a small 
bouche cup to keep them upright, then put them in a moderate oven and 




bake for about twenty -five to thirty minutes. When cooked, turn out of the 
moulds, leave till somewhat cool, then steep in syrup (vol. i. page 42) 
flavoured with a liqueur, and coloured with a few drops of carmine. Then 
dish up and pour over them a puree of bananas, sprinkle with a little 
blanched and finely-chopped pistachio nuts, and serve. 

Puree of Bananas. Pound four or five fresh bananas with one and 
a half ounces of castor sugar, the juice and pulp of two oranges, and 
three tablespoonfuls of thick apricot jam ; rub through a fine hair sieve 
or tammy, colour with a few drops of carmine and apricot yellow, warm 
in the bain-marie, flavour with a tablespoonful of Maraschino liqueur or 
syrup, and use. 

Mixture for Little Neva Balls. Mix together in a basin with a 
wooden spoon or with the hand a quarter of a pound of fresh butter and 
the finely-chopped peel of one lemon until quite creamy ; then add three 
ounces of vanilla sugar, and work again for fifteen minutes, adding by 
degrees one ounce of Marshall's Creme de Riz, two ounces of fine flour, 
one and a half ounces of ratafia crumbs, three large whole eggs, and half 

H II 2 



468 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

a tablespoonful of orange-flower water ; colour a pale salmon colour with 
liquid carmine, and use as directed above. 

Put the puree of bananas on a mixture of ice and salt before using, 
so as to have it perfectly cold. 



Little Balls in Cases 
Ballettes en Petites Caisses 

Prepare these as for Ballets a la Neva, and when cold mask over with 
Maraschino glace (vol. i. page 42), and when this is cold, ornament with 
Royal icing (vol. i.) in pink and white, using two forcing bags and small 




fancy pipes for the purpose ; place each in a little fancy paper case, 
and then dish up on a dish-paper, and serve for a sweet for dinner or 
luncheon. 

Little Cases a la Duchesse Marie 
Petites Caisses & la Duchesse Marie 

Bring half a pint of new milk to the boil with an ounce of castor 
sugar and a few drops of vanilla essence, then stir into it one and a half 
ounces of Marshall's Creme de Paz that has been mixed with a gill of 
rose water, stir over the fire till it boils, then let it simmer on the side 
of the stove for a few minutes ; add two raw beaten-up yolks of eggs, stir 
again over the fire till quite hot, but do not let it boil; add one large 
tablespoonful of thick apricot jam, and rub all together through a fine 
hair sieve. Partly fill some little china cases with this preparation, 
place on each a raw ripe strawberry or half a preserved apricot, and by 
means of a forcing bag with a large rose pipe, fill up the cases with 
stiffly-whipped cream that is sweetened with castor sugar and flavoured 
with a few drops of vanilla essence ; sprinkle over the cream some tiny 
dice shapes of Valencia almonds that have been blanched and baked a 
golden-brown colour, arrange the cases on a dish-paper or folded napkin, 
and serve for a sweet for dinner, luncheon, or ball supper. 



OF EXTRA RECIPES COLD FANCY SWEETS 469 

Portuguese Pastry 
Patisserie d la Porhigaise 

Put six yolks of eggs and two ounces of castor sugar into a basin 
with the finely-chopped peel of one lemon, and work it with a wooden 
spoon for about ten minutes ; then add to it by degrees half a pound of 
fine flour that has been sifted and warmed, and continue working this 
for about ten minutes longer. Pound a quarter of a pound of blanched 
and dried sweet almonds till perfectly smooth ; add a saltspoonful of 
apricot yellow, the finely-chopped peel of a lemon and an orange, one 
raw white of egg, and the strained juice of three oranges, and rub all 
through a fine wire sieve. Take three ounces of Marshall's Creme de 
Riz and add to it the yolks and flour, then add the other mixture and 
the whites of six eggs that have been whipped very stiff, with a pinch 
of salt. Prepare a baking-tin about one inch deep, with a rim, by 
brushing it over with clarified butter (vol. i.), and then covering it 
entirely with kitchen paper (the top side of which must also be brushed 
over with butter and then dusted over with fine flour) ; spread the 
mixture all over the tin, and put it into a moderate oven to bake for 
thirty to thirty-five minutes ; when cooked take up and allow the paste 
to cool, then spread over it a layer of apricot jam, glaze it over with 
glace (see recipe ' Baba a la Parisienne '), let this set, then cut it in 
strips or stamp it out in rounds. Serve for a dinner or luncheon sweet. 

Brandy Snaps with. Cream 
Brandy Snaps d la Creme 

Prepare some Brandy Snaps (see recipe), and while hot after being 
cooked, glaze one side with the golden syrup, and then wrap them round 



on Pompadour tins, glazed side outwards, and edges well overlapping, 
which must be accomplished by cutting the rounds with a cutter of 



470 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

sufficient diameter. When cold remove from the tins, and by means of a 
bag with a large rose pipe fill up the snaps with stiffly- whipped Vanilla 
cream (vol. i. page 325). Sprinkle over a few shreds of blanched pistachio 
and serve for ball supper, luncheon, or dinner. 



Little Apricot Cakes in Surprise 
Petits Gateaux oVAbricots en Surpise 

Take some little peach moulds, prepared as in vol. i. page 328, and 
partly fill them with the mixture, as below ; place the moulds on a 
baking-tin, and put them in a moderate oven for fifteen to twenty 
minutes, when they should be a pretty fawn colour ; then remove them 
from the oven, and let them remain on the baking-tin for about ten 
minutes ; then turn out the cakes on to a pastry rack, and when perfectly 
cold cut out the inside of the cakes from the bottom, so as to form a 
case, and fill up the spaces thus formed with apricot cream, as below ; 
place the top portions of cake that were taken from the centres on the 
top of the cream to keep it in its place, then turn the cakes up, glaze 
over the peach -like sides with Maraschino glace (vol. i.) ; put them on 
a pastry rack to drain, and when the glace is firm, dish them up in a 
pile on a dish-paper. Serve for a sweet with ices or fruit for dinner or 
dessert. It is better to bake these cakes the day previous to preparing 
them for table. 

Mixture for Apricot Cakes. Put into a stewpan four whole eggs, 
six ounces of castor sugar, and the finely-chopped peel of a lemon ; whip 
all together over boiling water till warm, then remove it from the fire 
and whip till cold and stiff, then add to it four ounces of sifted fine flour, 
and use as directed above. 

Apricot Cream for Apricot Cakes. Whip half a pint of double 
cream till quite stiff; rub half the contents of a small tin of apricots 
with their liquor through a fine hair sieve, warm the puree in the bain- 
marie, and dissolve in it rather better than a quarter-ounce of Marshall's 
Finest Leaf Gelatine ; add eight or ten drops of essence of vanilla, then 
mix with the whipped cream and use. 



Charlotte a la Princesse 
Charlotte a la Princesse 

Line a plain mould with lightly oiled paper, arrange sponge or 
vanilla cakes all round it, then fill up with a good vanilla bavaroise, as 



OF EXTRA RECIPES COLD FANCY SWEETS 471 

below, mixed with two ounces of any nice fruits cut in shreds ; when 
set, turn out and ornament with Vienna icing (vol. i. page 41) in pink 




and white, using forcing bags with fancy pipes ; serve on a fancy dish- 
paper for a dinner or luncheon sweet. 

Vanilla Bavaroise for Charlotte A la Princesse. Take one 
and a half gills of milk boiled with vanilla pod, and two ounces of castor 
sugar, mixed when boiling with a quarter-ounce of Marshall's gelatine ; 
then stir on to two raw yolks of eggs, return to the stewpan, and stir over 
the fire till it thickens ; then tammy, and when cool add half a pint of 
whipped cream, a wineglassful of brandy, and one of any other liqueur, 
and use. 

Progress Cake 
Gateau Progres 

Put in an egg bowl eight whole eggs, twelve ounces of castor sugar, 
and the finely-chopped peel of one lemon ; whip these over boiling water 




till the mixture is quite warm ; then remove from the fire and continue 
the whipping until the contents are thick and cold ; add to it eight 



472 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

ounces of fine flour that has been sifted and warmed, mixing this in 
gently with a wooden spoon. Prepare a cake tin for baking by rubbing 
it over with warm butter and lining it with buttered kitchen paper, then 
dusting it over with fine flour and castor sugar mixed in equal quantities ; 
put the prepared mixture in the tin and bake it in a moderate oven for 
one and a quarter hours, then take up, turn out the cake on to a pastry 
rack, and let it remain until cold ; then cut it in rounds about half an inch 
thick; spread the slices alternately, one with Vienna chocolate icing 
(see recipe, ' Timbal a la Florence '), one with the Vienna vanilla icing, 
and so on until all are masked ; then arrange the cake again in its 
original form, trim the outside neatly, and mask it over entirely with 
Maraschino glace (vol. i.) ; let this remain till set, and then with forcing 
bags and rose pipes ornament the cake as in engraving with the same 
Vienna icings, and dish up on a fancy dish-paper. Serve for a sweet 
for dinner or luncheon, or for a ball supper. 

Cake a la Princesse Maud 
Gateau a la Princesse Maud 

Put six ounces of castor sugar into a stewpan with four whole eggs 
and a teaspoonful of vanilla essence, add a little carmine to make it a 
pretty pink colour, and whip over boiling water till the mixture is warm, 
then remove the pan from the water, continue the whipping until cold 
and stiff, and mix into it four ounces of fine flour that has been sifted 
and warmed. Prepare a tin for baking the mixture by brushing it over 




with warm butter, then paper it and butter this paper also ; dust it over 
with flour and sugar that have been mixed together in equal quantities, 
pour in the prepared mixture, and bake it in a moderate oven for one 
and a quarter hours, then turn out the cake and scoop out the inside so 
as to form a case ; line this case with Almond icing (vol. i.), and fill up the 
centre with Chocolate meringue mixture (see recipe) ; place the cake on a 



OF EXTRA RECIPES COLD FANCY SWEETS 473 

baking-tin, and put it in a moderate oven to dry for half an hour, then 
when firm remove it on to a pastry rack, pour over it a strawberry or red 
Maraschino glace ; let this cool, then place it on a cake bottom orna- 
mented with royal icing, and ornament the cake, as in engraving, with 
royal icing in two colours, one coloured brown with coffee. Serve it 
on a dish-paper for a dinner sweet, or for luncheon or ball supper. 



Neapolitan Cake 

Gateau Napolitaine 

Take one pound of fine flour that has been sifted, rub into it half a 
pound of good butter till quite smooth, and mix into it half a pound of 
castor sugar, half a pound of very finely-chopped blanched sweet almonds, 
four raw yolks of eggs, three large tablespoonfuls of orange flower water, 
and about twelve drops of essence of vanilla, and work it into a very 
stiff paste with cream or milk ; roll the mixture out about a quarter of 
an inch thick, and stamp out of it rings about six inches in diameter 
outside. Place these rings on a wetted baking-tin, and prick them all 
over with a pricker or fork, brush over lightly with new milk, put them 
in a moderate oven and bake for fifteen to twenty minutes till a pretty 
fawn colour ; take them from the tin and put them separately on the 
table to be pressed under a board with a heavy weight on top and leave 
them till cold. Arrange them one on top of the other with a little apricot or 
any nice jam between each ring ; when all the pieces are placed together 




trim off all round any irregular pieces from the outside. Prepare an 
Apricot glace (see recipe ' Baba a la Parisienne '), or of any other nice 
jam, and, by means of a paste brush, brush the cake all over with it; let 
this get set and then place it on a paste bottom (vol. i. page 40) orna- 
mented with Royal icing (vol. i.), and then ornament the cake with 
the icing by means of a forcing bag and pipe, and garnish with little 



474 MES. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

pieces of dried cherries and angelica or any other nice fruit, and dish 
up on a pretty dish-paper. This cake can be served for a dinner sweet 
or for any cold collation, and may be filled with whipped cream sweetened 
and flavoured, or with ice or iced souffles. 



Baba a la Parisienne 
Baba a la Parisienne 

Prepare a Baba mixture (vol. i. page 327) and put it into a trois freres 
mould (that has been buttered and papered, and the pipe filled with 
a raw potato with a band of buttered paper round it), to about three- 
fourths its depth ; place the mould on a baking-tin, and stand it in the 
screen for about one and a half hours, at the end of which time the 
mixture should have risen to twice its original size ; put it into a 
moderate oven, and bake for about forty-five minutes ; then remove the 
papers and potato, and turn out the baba on to a pastry-rack ; soak it 
thoroughly with syrup (vol. i. page 42) flavoured with a liqueur ; then 




mask it entirely with apricot glace, and sprinkle round the bottom 
some finely-chopped blanched pistachios, and with a forcing bag and 
small rose pipe ornament the cake tastefully with Eoyal icing (vol. i.), 
in two colours, pink and white, and decorate it with dried cherries, strips 
of cut un crystallised angelica and walnuts, or filberts (when in season), 
prepared as below ; then dish up the baba on a silver dish and fill up 
the centre with a macedoine of fruits, and stiffly-whipped cream that is 
sweetened with castor sugar and flavoured with vanilla essence. Serve 
for a dinner sweet. 

Walnuts or Filberts for Baba A la Parisienne. Crack the shells 
of the nuts, remove the skin, and when cleaned steep them in a little 
brandy or liqueur, then mask them with Coffee glace (vol. i.), put them 
to drain on a pastry rack, and when the glace is dry use as described 
above. 



OF EXTRA EECIPES COLD FANCY SWEETS 475 

Apricot Glace for Baba a la Parisienne. Put the contents of 
a half-pint jar of apricot jam into a stewpan, with four ounces of castor 
sugar, half a pint of water, and a saltspoonful of apricot yellow ; boil 
together till to a thick consistency, which will take fifteen to twenty 
mihutes, then rub through a fine hair sieve, and use. 

Moka Cake 

Gateau Mala 

Prepare a Genoise paste mixture (see recipe), put it into a forcing 
bag with a large plain pipe, and with it three parts fill a plain timbal 
mould that is prepared as in vol. i. page 328 ; place a well-buttered paper 
(cut sufficiently deep to stand four inches above the mould) round the 
outside of the mould, put it in a moderate oven and bake for an hour 
and a quarter, then turn out, and, when cold, mask over with Coffee 
glace (vol. i.) ; let this glace set, then stand the cake on a cake bottom 




(vol. i. page 40), and garnish as in engraving with Vienna icing (vol. i. 
page 41) in pink and white ; arrange round the edge some royal icing 
(vol. i.), then sprinkle with blanched and chopped pistachio nuts or 
coloured sugar, and when the cake is ready to serve, fill up the centre 
with stiffly-whipped, sweetened, and flavoured cream, and a nice com- 
pote of fruits. This is an excellent dinner or luncheon sweet, or it 
can be served for any cold collation. 

Cake a la Clementine 

Gateau a la Clementine 

Put into a basin six ounces of good butter, and work it with the 
hand or a wooden spoon till quite white, then add to it one and a half 



476 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

ounces of ground almonds (that have been baked a pale brown colour), 
one and a half ounces of desiccated cocoanut that has been baked in the 
same way, a half saltspoonful of ground cinnamon, and six ounces of 
castor sugar ; work these together for about fifteen minutes, then add 
by degrees four raw yolks of eggs, a dessertspoonful of Maraschino 
liqueur or syrup, and one and a half ounces of Marshall's Creme de Riz, 
first mixing the latter with three ounces of fine flour that has been 
warmed and passed through a sieve ; also add two ounces of Fry's 
Caracas Chocolate grated, and a saltspoonful of coffee brown ; mix these 
ingredients well together for about fifteen to twenty minutes, then have 
the whites of five raw eggs whipped very stiff with a pinch of salt, and 




add them to the cake mixture, but take care not to work the ingredients 
much after adding the whites. Brush over a fancy brioche mould with 
warm butter, and dust it over with fine flour and castor sugar (that have 
been mixed together in equal quantities) ; put the mixture into it and 
bake in a moderate oven for about one hour, taking care that the cake 
is not burned at the bottom, and in order to prevent this it is advisable, 
when the cake has beeD in the oven for about half an hour, to put a little 
salt or sand on the bottom of the tin. When properly cooked, turn out 
on to a pastry rack, and when cold glaze over in alternate divisions as in 
engraving with Chocolate glace (vol. i.), and Maraschino glace (vol. i.) ; 
garnish with any pretty 3mall fancy sweetmeats, fastening these to the 
cake with a little Royal icing (vol. i.), and dish up on a dish on a paper 
or napkin, and serve for a dinner sweet with an ice or ice souffle, or it 
makes a very pretty cake for dessert if garnished round with sweetmeats 
such as Fry's ' Compositions Chocolatees.' 

Mentone Cake 

Gateau Menton 

Chop three-quarters of a pound of dried sweet cocoanut quite fine, 
then mix with it six ounces of Marshall's Creme de Riz, a quarter-pound 
of castor sugar, three ounces of warm butter, four ounces of fine flour, 



OF EXTRA RECIPES- COLD FANCY SWEETS 



477 



four whole eggs, a teaspoonful of vanilla essence, one tablespoon ful of rose 
water, two ounces of Fry's Caracas Chocolate that is cut fine and rubbed 
through a sieve ; add one wineglassful of Maraschino liqueur or syrup, 
work these well together till smooth, and add half an ounce of Cowan's 
Baking Powder. Have any nice mould, such as brioche or plain 
timbal, brushed over with warm butter, well sprinkled with cocoanut, 
and then dusted over with castor sugar and fine flour mixed together in 
equal quantities ; put in the prepared mixture, and surround with a 
buttered paper, and bake in a moderate oven for three-quarters to an 
hour, then turn out, and when cool glaze over with orange or other 
glace (see recipe, ' Baba a la Parisienne '), and serve for afternoon teas, 
luncheon, &c. This mixture is nice cooked in any small fancy moulds 
and served plainly. 

Breton Cake 
Qdieau Href on 

Prepare five or six of the Breton Border moulds of various sizes as 
in vol. i. page 328. Partly fill each one of the moulds with cake mixture 
as below, then stand the moulds on baking-tins and bake in a moderate 
oven for twenty-five to thirty minutes, then turn out and leave till cold ; 
mask over the top part of each piece with apricot jam that has been 




rubbed through a sieve, and place the pieces together resting one on the 
other, putting the larger ones at the bottom ; glaze over with Maraschino 
glace (vol. i.), leave till cold, then arrange together, ornament with 
Vienna icing (vol. i.), place the cake on a dish-paper, and serve for 
dinner, handed with a compote of fruits, or it may be served alone for 
afternoon tea or for dessert. 



478 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

Breton Cake Mixture. Take eight whole eggs, twelve ounces of 
castor sugar, the finely-chopped peel of a lemon, a teaspoonful of vanilla 
essence, sufficient carmine to make it a pale salmon colour, a saltspoonful 
of ground ginger, and as much ground cinnamon as would cover a 
sixpenny piece ; whip over boiling water till warm, then take up and 
whip till cold and thick, then mix with eight ounces of warmed fine 
flour that has been passed through a sieve, and use. 



Little Baskets a la Lavenue 
Petites Corbeilles a la Lavenue 

Prepare some Genoise paste (see recipe), and fill about three-parts 
full some little corbeille moulds prepared as in vol. i. page 328 ; place the 
tins on a baking sheet, and bake in a moderate oven for twenty-five to 
thirty minutes ; then turn out, and, when cool, cut out the insides with 
a small knife to make a hollow, .leaving the edges one-eighth of an inch 
thick ; place inside the space thus formed a teaspoonful of apricot jam 
or other nice preserve ; mask the outsides of the corbeilles with a little 
apricot jam, and then sprinkle over the jam some blanched and finely- 
chopped pistachio nuts. Ornament the edges with a little Royal icing 




(vol. i.) by means of a forcing bag and small rose pipe ; cut some 
uncrystallised angelica in lengths of about five inches, and about a 
quarter of an inch thick, and place these over the corbeilles, lodging 
them between the cake and the jam, so as to form handles. Whip 
some cream very stiffly, sweeten it, and flavour with vanilla essence, 
and by means of a forcing bag and a large rose pipe partly fill up the 
inside of the corbeilles, covering the jam entirely, and forming the 
cream into a rose pattern, on which sprinkle very lightly a little red- 
coloured sugar, made by mixing a little liquid carmine with some castor 
sugar. Dish up and serve for a dinner or luncheon sweet, or for any 
cold collation. 



OF EXTEA EECIEES COLD FANCY SWEETS 



479 



Chevalier Cakes 
Choux d la Chevalier 

Prepare some Choux paste (vol. i. page 40), and put it into a forcing 
bag with a plain pipe ; force the mixture out on to a baking-tin in the 
form of horseshoes, and brush these over with whole beaten-up egg ; 
bake in a moderate oven for thirty-five to forty minutes, remove from 
the oven, and, when cool, split open the underneath part of the shoes 
and fill up the insides with pastry custard (vol. i. page 42), or stiffly- 




whipped cream that is sweetened and flavoured with vanilla essence ; 
mask over the tips of the shoes with Coffee glace (vol. i. page 42), and 
the remaining part with vanilla glace ; garnish, as in engraving, with 
chopped almonds that are coloured with a little carmine or with chopped 
pistachio nuts, and dish up ten or twelve on a dish ; serve for a dinner 
or luncheon sweet, or for a cold collation. 



Delmonico Cake 
Gateau d la Delmonico 

Butter a bomb mould, dust it over with finely-chopped dried cocoa- 
nut, and fill it with the cake mixture (as below) ; bake in a moderate 




oven for about an hour, then turn out the cake, cover it all over with 
Almond icing (vol. i.), dust it over with icing sugar, place it again in a 



480 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

moderate oven till a nice golden colour, then remove ; set it aside till cold, 
and mask it over with Royal icing (vol. i.), smoothing the surface of this 
over with a wet palette-knife. Take some very finely-shredded blanched 
pistachio nuts, also some finely- sliced uncrystallised cherries, and with 
these ornament the cake in six alternate divisions, as shown in the en- 
graving ; garnish lengthwise between each division with pink and white 
Vienna icing (vol. i.), by means of a forcing bag and a fancy pipe. Dish 
up on a cake bottom (vol. i. page 40) and garnish the base of this with 
royal icing and angelica and the top of the cake with the Vienna icing ; 
place the cake on a dish-paper, and serve for a sweet for dinner or for 
any cold collation. 

Cake Mixture for Delmonico Cake. Take four whole raw eggs, 
a dessertspoonful of black coffee, six ounces of castor sugar, a few drops 
of vanilla essence, and the finely-chopped peel of one lemon ; whip all 
together over boiling water till warm, then remove and continue whipping 
till cold, then add four ounces of fine warmed flour that has been sifted ; 
mix well together and use. 

Coupole jNavarine 

Prepare half a pound of Baba paste (vol. i. page 327). Butter a fancy 
brioche mould and put the prepared mixture into it, place a band of 
buttered paper round the outside of the mould, and if using one with a 
pipe place a potato therein to prevent the mixture running down the 
pipe ; stand the mould in the screen for about three-quarters of an hour, 
and when the mixture has well risen and is of a very light appearance 
put it into a rather quick oven to bake till a nice golden colour, which 
will take about three-quarters of an hour ; when cooked remove the paper, 
&c, turn out, stand the cake on a pastry rack and pour over it some 
boiling syrup (vol. i. page 42) that is flavoured with Maraschino, or 
Noyeau liqueur ; then place it on a hot dish and pour all over it a thick 
Greengage sauce (see recipe) ; sprinkle with pistachio nuts that have 
been blanched and shredded and serve with a macedoine of fruits (see 
recipe) in the centre. The above quantities are enough for six to eight 
persons. Serve hot or cold. 

Timbal of Chestnuts a la Cannes 
Timbale de Marrons d la Cannes 

Take one and a half pounds of chestnuts, prepared as for ' Chestnuts 
en Caisses ' ; mix quickly into this puree two ounces of castor sugar, one 



OF EXTRA RECIPES COLD FANCY SWEETS 



481 



good tablespoonful of thick cream, eight to ten drops of essence of vanilla, 
one raw white of Qgg, two tablespoonfnls of orange-flower water and one 
tablespoonful of brandy, and work up into a ball ; then carefully roll it 
out about a quarter of an inch thick, sprinkling it with a little icing sugar, 
and stamp out in small heart shapes, or rounds, or rings ; place these on 
a baking-tin in a screen till they are quite dry on the surface ; then dip 




each piece separately in boiled sugar (see recipe), let this set; then 
stick the pieces together as shown to form a shape, and garnish it in 
some pretty design with pink and white Royal icing (vol. L), using a 
forcing bag and pipe for the purpose ; then, when cold, till up with cream, 
as below, and garnish with spun sugar (see recipe), and use for a fancy 
sweet. 

Vanilla Cream for Timbal of Chestnuts a la Cannes. Whip stiff 
one pint of double cream, sweeten it with four ounces of castor sugar, 
and flavour with eight or ten drops of vanilla essence. Part of this can, 
if liked, be coloured brown or red before using. 



Timbal a la Mathild 
Timbale d la Mathilde 

Prepare some Choux paste (vol. i. page 315), say one pint for twelve 
to fourteen persons, put it into a forcing bag with a large plain pipe, and 
force the mixture out on to an ungreased baking-tin in rings about four 
inches in diameter ; brush these all over the top with whole beaten-up 
egg, and bake in a moderate oven for about thirty-five to forty minutes ; 
then take them up and arrange them one on the other in a pile on a 
paste bottom (vol. i. page 40), fix them together with a little royal icing 
or boiled sugar, and then prepare a Meringue mixture (vol. i.) and com- 
pletely cover the timbal with this as shown in the engraving, with a bag 
and pipe, forming it in little ball shapes and forcing them out quite close 

I I 



482 



MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 



together ; dust it over with icing sugar, using a dredger for the purpose, 
and then place it in a moderate oven and let the meringue get perfectly 








I 



dry without getting discoloured, then dish up and fill up the centre with 
pastry custard (vol. i. page 41), and serve Chocolate sauce in a boat. 
Serve hot or cold for dinner sweet or cold collation. 



Strasburg Custard 
(Eufs a la Strasbourg 

Prepare a Custard (see recipe, vol. i. page 328) that is well flavoured 
with Maraschino and vanilla, pour it into a deep silver dish, leave till 
somewhat cool, then sprinkle over it a layer of Strawberry compote 
(vol. i. page 322), using fresh fruit if in season ; cover over with poached 
meringues (see recipe), arrange these closely together, garnish the top 
here and there with little light bunches of Snow cream (vol. i.), sprinkle 
the cream with blanched and finely-shredded pistachio nuts, and with 
coloured sugar. Serve for a sweet for dinner or luncheon. 



Timbal a la Christina 
Timbale a la, Christina 

Well oil a timbal or turban mould and line it with Nougat paste 
(vol. i.), trim off the edges and set aside till cold, remove the case from the 
mould, mask it over on the outside with Maraschino glace (vol. i. page 42), 
let this cool, then ornament it with pink Eoyal icing (vol. i.), using a 
forcing bag and small rose pipe for the purpose, and garnish round the 
edges with shredded pistachio nuts. Fill up the inside with chestnut 
cream prepared as below, using a forcing bag and large plain pipe for 
the purpose ; garnish the top of this with whipped cream coloured red and 



OF EXT1LY RECIPES COLD FANCY SWEETS 



483 



white (see recipe, ' Cream for Garnishing ') , forming it into roses by means 
of a forcing bag with a large rose pipe ; sprinkle lightly with shredded 







pistachio and crystallised rose leaves, garnish the centre with spun 
sugar (see recipe), and serve for a dinner party sweet. 

Chestnut Cream for Timbal A la Christina. Prepare one pound 
of chestnut puree as for ' Chestnuts in Cases,' mix with it four ounces of 
castor sugar, a tablespoonful of brandy, the same of orange-flower water, 
a teaspoonful of vanilla essence, and the finely-chopped peel of a lemon, 
half a pint of stiffly- whipped cream, and use. 



Egg a la Mille Fruits 
(Buf a hi Mille Fruits 

Line the two parts of a large egg mould with paste, as below, rolled 
out about a quarter of an inch thick, press it well into the form of the 
mould, then put a buttered paper inside each half, and fill them up with 
rice, or any dried grain, and bake them in a very moderate oven for 
about three-quarters of an hour ; then turn out, and when cold fill u | > 




the insides with a macedoine of fruits, as below ; join the halves together 
with a little Royal icing (see recipe), let it dry ; then glaze the egg 
over with Maraschino glace (vol. i.), ornament the top with angelica and 
dried cherries, then place the egg shape on a paste bottom (vol. i. page 10), 
garnish it round with little paper cases filled with iced Vanilla Cream 



484 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

as below, and garnished with angelica and dried cherries or fresh fruit 
when in season. 

Paste for Egg A la Mille Fruits. Rub into six ounces of fine 
flour and two ounces of Marshall's Creme de Riz, a quarter-pound of 
butter till smooth, add four raw yolks of eggs, a quarter-pound of finely- 
chopped almonds, a quarter-pound of castor sugar and a teaspoonful 
of vanilla essence ; mix into a stiff paste with orange-flower water, 
and use. 

Macedoixe for Egg a la Mille Fruits. Take about half a pint 
of mixed fruits, and cut in little strips (if using grapes, first skin them 
and remove the pips). Take half a tin of apricots, and one and a half 
ounces of castor sugar, and rub them with the liquor thi'ough a hair sieve ; 
put the puree into a bain-marie, and dissolve in it a quarter-ounce of 
Marshall's Leaf Gelatine. Flavour with a wineglassful of brandy, and 
a wineglassful of any liqueur, add the fruits, mix up together, keep it 
on a little ice till nearly set, then put it into the cake. 

Cream for Egg A la Mille Fruits. Whip half a pint of double 
cream till quite stiff, sweeten it with two ounces of castor sugar, flavour 
with a few drops of vanilla essence, stir in a few drops of liquid carmine, 
and give it a mottled appearance by drawing a fork through it. Put 
the cream into a forcing bag with a large rose pipe, fill some little 
fancy paper cases with it, and stick here and there on the cream some 
little strips of uncrystallised cherries and angelica. Then set in the 
charged ice-cave and let them freeze for about one hour, and use. 

Little Nougat Baskets a la Duchesse 
Petites Corbellles de Nougat d la Duchesse 

Line some little oiled oval dariol moulds with Nougat paste (vol. i. 
page 323) about an eighth of an inch thick, trim them and turn out the 



*,* -i*W<i-, 7 *?!!?% v 




nougat cases to form the base of the baskets, and when quite cold fill 
up the insides with whipped cream (see recipe, ' Cream for Garnishing '), 



OF EXTRA RECIPES COLD FANCY SWEETS 485 

using a bag and pipe for the purpose, form the lids and handles from 
the boiled sugar (page -157) or angelica, garnish with small quarters of 
oranges, whole ripe strawberries and cherries, or any nice fresh ripe fruit 
that are dipped into clear boiled sugar ; if fresh fruits are not in season 
dried ones may be used. Arrange on a dish-paper or napkin, and serve 
for a dinner or luncheon sweet or for any cold collation. 



Fleur a la Florence 
Flair d I" Florence 

Take a square fleur mould, oil it well, and line it about a quarter of 
an inch thick with_Florence paste (vol. i. page : >2o), pressing this well 
to the mould; trim off the edges neatly, and when the paste is cold and 
firm remove the pegs from the mould, take away the fleur tin and orna- 
ment the edges of the paste, by means of a forcing bag and small rose 
pipe, with Royal icing (vol. i.) ; place the ease on the dish in which it 




is to be served, arrange round the inside, as in engraving, cornets pre- 
pared as in vol. i. page 329, but colour the cornet paste with six or eight 
drops of liquid carmine, and fill up the centre with a macedoine of fruits 
(see recipe) ; fill the cornets with vanilla-flavoured whipped cream for 
garnishing (see recipe), using a forcing bag and rose pipe for the pur- 
pose, and arrange some of the same cream on the top of the macedoine 
of fruits. Serve for a dinner sweet or for ball supper. 

Flower Cases a la Creme 
Bouquetiers a la Creme 

Make some nougat as in vol. i. page o"2o ; when cooked turn the mix- 
ture on to an oiled slab, roll it out with an oiled rolling-pin and line 
some oiled dariol moulds with it very thinly, pressing well to the shapes ; 



486 



MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 



trim the edges,* and when cool turn out of the moulds, and mask them 
lightly over the outsides with Royal icing (vol. i.), which is coloured 
with a little of Marshall's Carmine or Cherry Red ; sprinkle this over 
with red coloured sugar, and ornament the edges of the bouquetiers with 




whitej-Royal icing (vol. i.), by means of a forcing bag and small plain 
pipe then press the edges in chopped pi&tachio nuts, and, when ready 
to serve, fill up the centres with whipped cream, and garnish the top 
with crystallised rose leaves and violets. Serve on a dish-paper or 
napkin for a dinner or luncheon sweet, or for any cold collation. 



Little Beatrice Cakes 
Petits Gateaux a la Beatrice 

Line some little boat-shaped moulds very thinly with short paste as 
below, trim off the edges, and place inside each case three dried cherries ; 
cover these entirely with a layer of almond mixture as below, and place 




the cases on a baking-tin, and cook in a moderate oven for about fifteen 
minutes ; then remove them from the tins ; allow them to cool, and 
mask each over with Maraschino glace (vol. i.) ; let this get cold, then, 
by means of a forcing bag and little plain pipe, ornament the tops with 



OF EXTRA RECIPES COLD FANCY SWEETS 487 

a little Royal icing (vol. i.) in any pretty design in two colours, brown 
and pink ; for the former colour a portion of the icing with Marshall's 
Coffee Brown, and for the latter use a little carmine. When ready to 
serve, dish up on a dish-paper or napkin, and serve for a sweet for dinner 
or luncheon, or for any cold collation. 

Short Paste for Beatrice Cakes. Rub three ounces of fine Hour 
into one and a half ounces of butter till quite smooth, add one ounce of 
castor sugar, and one raw yolk of egg, and mix with orange-flower water 
into a stiff paste, then use. This quantity is sufficient for twelve to 
fifteen cases. 

Almond Mktube for Beatrice Cake. Take a quarter-pound of 
very finely-chopped blanched almonds or pistachio nuts, and mix with 
them four ounces of castor sugar, one dessertspoonful of orange-flower 
water, six or eight drops of essence of vanilla, half of a raw white of 
egg, and a little of Marshall's Apple or Sap Green to make it a nice 
pistachio colour. 



Little Nougat Baskets a la Diirer 

Petites CorbeiUe8 de Nougat d la Dii/r&r 

Well oil some little fluted basket moulds and line them thinly with 
nougat paste, prepared as in vol. i. page ; !2o ; when this is cool, turn out 
the nougats and stick the two parts of the baskets together with a little 
boiled sugar ; mask the bottom part of the basket with a little Royal 
icing (vol. i.), sprinkle this with a few finely-sh redded pistachio nuts, 




and fill up the inside of the baskets by means of a forcing bag and pipe 
with coloured garnishing cream (see recipe) ; garnish with fruits (such 
as strawberries, cherries, &c.) that have been first dipped into boiling 
sugar and allowed to get cold. Dish up on a dish-paper and serve for a 
sweet for dinner or any cold collation. 



188 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

Pastry Potatoes 
Pommes de Terre Patisseries 

Put into a stewpan three ounces of castor sugar, one ounce of finely- 
powdered Fry's Caracas Chocolate rubbed through a wire sieve, four large 
egg*, and whip these together over boiling water till the mixture is quite 
warm, then remove the pan, and whip the contents off the water till the 
mixture is like a thick batter, and quite cold ; add to it three ounces of 
fine flour that have been passed through a sieve and warmed. Have a 
baking-tin brushed over with warm butter and then lined with paper, 
brush the paper also over with butter, and dust it over with fine flour 
and castor sugar mixed in equal quantities ; pour the mixture into this 
pan about a quarter of an inch thick, and bake it in a moderate oven for 
about half an hour, then turn out, and when cold rub it all into crumbs, 
and mix with it two tablespoonfuls of apricot, strawberry, or raspberry 
jam, which should be first rubbed through a sieve. Add about twelve 
drops of essence of vanilla, and mix it into a paste in a basin ; then 




take portions of the mixture, about a dessertspoonful, flatten it out 
with the hand, using a little icing sugar for the purpose, and inside the 
paste place one or two uncrystallised cherries, then roll up into the form 
of a very small potato. Have some Almoud icing (vol. i.), and with it 
completely cover the first preparation, making the almond covering per- 
fectly smooth, and working it with icing sugar, then roll the potato in 
Caracas chocolate that has been grated and rubbed through a sieve ; roll 
the potatoes well into the chocolate, and then with the point of a small 
knife make little impressions to represent the eyes of the potato ; leave 
them on a pastry rack, and when the almond icing is set and feels 
firm, dish up the potatoes as in the design with a few little green leaves ; 
these will keep well for a week or two if kept in a dry place, and are 
nice to use for a sweet or for dessert or any cold collation. Quantities 
given will be enough for fourteen to sixteen potatoes. 



OF EXTRA RECIPES COLD FANCY SWEETS 



489 



Imperial Cake 
Gdteau d VImp&riale 

Whip twelve whole eggs, one pound of castor sugar, and two 
ounces of vanilla sugar over boiling water till the mixture is warm, then 
remove it from the fire and whip it till cold 'and thick; ;add twelve 
ounces of finely-sifted flour, four ounces of finely chopped desiccated 
cocoanut, and mix well together, then divide the mixture into three 
parts; colour one part with carmine, and flavour it with six or eight 
drops of essence of almonds ; colour the second portion with sap green, 
and flavour it with essence of lemon, and leave the third portion white ; 
sprinkle over each a little more cocoanut, place each portion sepa- 
rately in a saute pan or round baking-tin about eight inches wide by 
two inches deep, and bake in a moderate oven for about half an hour. 
When cooked, turn out and leave till cold, then cut each into two slices 
horizontally, spread a layer of Vienna icing (vol. i.) flavoured with Fry's 




Caracas Chocolate (see recipe, ' Timbal a la Florence ') over each of the 
red-coloured portions, arrange a layer of Vienna icing (vol. i.) over the 
green-coloured portions, and a layer of rose-coloured Vienna icing over 
the white parts ; then place each slice of the cake one on top of the other, 
arranging the different colours effectively. Prepare a paste bottom 
(vol. i. page 40) about one inch thick and the same size as the cake, and 
bake it till a nice golden colour ; then place the prepared cake on this, 
glaze it with Maraschino glace, and leave it till set ; then, by means of 
forcing bags and rose and plain pipes, ornament the top and sides, as 
in engraving, with Vienna icing (vol.Ji.) and rose-coloured Vienna icing, 
and put it aside till the next day to dry. Dish up on a round silver dish, 
on a gold or silver dessert-paper, and serve for a ball supper or afternoon 
party, &c. 

Almond Charlotte a la Beatrice 

Charlotte d'Amandes a la Beatrice 

Take one pound of Nougat paste (vol. i. page 323), then turn it out 
on to an oiled slab or board and roll out the mixture; cut up a portion 



490 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

in strips four or five inches long and one and a half inches wide ; cut 
two plain rounds about four inches in diameter and put these aside to 
use, one for the top and the other for the bottom of the Charlotte, also 
stamp out some small rounds about the size of a shilling-piece to garnish 
the top and bottom let these cool, then have some boiled sugar and join 
the strips together in a well-oiled Charlotte mould ; leave these till set, 




then fill up the inside with a bavaroise mixture as below. Let this set, 
then turn out and fasten on the bottom and top made of the prepared 
paste, using the boiled sugar for the purpose ; garnish tastefully with 
the little rounds of the paste, and ornament the Charlotte with Royal 
icing (vol. i.), using a small rose pipe and forcing bag for the purpose. 
This is a nice sweet to serve for a dinner or any cold collation. 

Bavaroise for Almond Charlotte a la Beatrice. Put into a 
stewpan half a pint of milk with two ounces of castor sugar and half 
a split pod of vanilla, stand it in a bain-marie to infuse for about ten 
minutes, then mix with it half an ounce of Marshall's Leaf Gelatine, and 
stir till this is dissolved ; mix three raw yolks of eggs in a basin and 
stir the above mixture on to them, return to the bain-marie and stir 
till it thickens, then tammy, and when cool mix in a wineglassful of 
Marshall's Maraschino Syrup, half a wineglassful of rum or brandy, 
and a half-pint of stiffly-whipped cream ; divide this mixture into three 
parts, colour one with a little sap green, one with carmine, and leave 
the other part white ; then pour these mixtures into the Charlotte case 
in alternate layers just as they are getting set. 

Little Swans a la Bosphore 
Petits Cygnes a la Bosphore 
Take some small swan moulds, well oil them and then line them with 
nougat paste as given below, press the paste well and quickly into the 



OF EXTRA UECIPES- COLD FANCY SWEETS 491 

shapes, then close up the moulds and leave them till cold and firm ; 
remove from the shapes by means of a sharp-pointed knife, and place on 
a pastry rack and mask over with Maraschino or Noyeau glace (vol. L), 
and with some cut French plums form the eyes and beaks ; repeat 
the masking again and leave till cold. Have some very stiffly-whipped 




cream sweetened and flavoured with vanilla essence, and with it form 
a bed, using a forcing bag and rose pipe for the purpose, on which to 
arrange the swans ; sprinkle the cream with coloured sugar, garnish 
the dish with spun sugar and serve for a sweet for dinner or luncheon, 
or any cold collation, ball supper, &c. 

NOUGAT Paste for Little Swans a la Bosphore. Put into a 
stewpan two tablespoonfuls of orange-flower water, a teaspoonful of 
vanilla essence, half a pound of castor sugar, the chopped peel of one 
lemon, and two tablespoonfuls of lemon-juice; boil to caramel, stirring 
frequently, then add half a pound of ground or finely-chopped almonds ; 
stir on the fire till reboiling, then use. 

Norway Cake 
Qdteau d la Norvt rjienne 

Put into a stewpan three large whole raw eggs, four ounces of castor 
sugar, a few drops of vanilla essence, a pinch of ground cinnamon, and 
a dessertspoonful of black coffee ; whip these together in a whipping-tin 
over boiling water till warm, then remove from the fire and whip till 
cold and thick ; add one ounce of candied peel that is cut up in tiny 
dice-shapes, then mix with it three ounces of fine sifted warm flour 
and the eighth of an ounce of Cowan's Baking-Powder. Take a 
saute pan or baking-tin about two inches deep, brush it over with 
warm butter and then line it with a well-buttered paper, and dust 
the paper over with castor sugar and fine flour that are mixed in equal 
quantities ; put in the mixture and bake in" a moderate oven for twenty to 
twenty-five minutes, then turn out on a pastry rack to get cold. Take 
a quarter of a pound of Neapolitan cake paste (see recipe, Neapolitan 
Cake) and roll it out about one-eighth of an inch thick, then take it up 
on a rolling-pin, and place it on a greased baking-tin and put it in a 
moderate oven to bake till a pale golden colour and quite crisp ; leave it 



492 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

till cold, then spread a very thin layer of apricot jam (that has been 
rubbed through a wire-sieve) on the top, and place the first prepared 
cake on this, and on the top of this cake spread a layer of jam in the 
same way ; then cover the cake completely with blanched and finely- 
chopped pistachio nuts, cut it into square or fancy shapes, or if liked 
dish in the whole piece, and serve for afternoon tea, &c. 

Basket a la Rosslyn 
Corbeille d la Iiossli/n 

Take a basket mould, oil it well, and line it with Nougat paste 
(vol. i.) about a quarter of an inch thick, pressing the mixture well into 
the shape of the mould ; trim the edges evenly, and when the nougat is 
somewhat cool, remove it from the mould, glaze the outside with pink- 
coloured Maraschino glace (vol. i.) and leave till set. Prepare some 
cutlets of Genoise paste (see recipe), also a round of the same cake, the 
size of the interior of the basket ; place the round at the bottom of 
the basket and fill up with a macedoine of raw fruits, such as apricots T 




bananas, melon, &c, cut into slices and flavoured with a little Maraschino 
or other liqueur, and sweetened with castor sugar ; arrange the cutlets 
round the top of this, as shown in the engraving, garnish the edge of 
the nougat with pink Royal icing (vol. i.), using a forcing bag and small 
rose pipe for the purpose, pile up in the centre of the cutlets some 
sweetened whipped cream flavoured with vanilla, dish up on a dish-paper, 
garnish the base with any nice crystallised fruits or Fry's ' Compositions 
Chocolatees,' and serve as a sweet for dinner or luncheon, or for any cold 
collation. 

Vanilla Eclairs 
Eclairs d la Vanille 

Take some choux paste (vol. i. page 40), and by means of a forcing 
bag and large plain pipe force ou the mixture into lengths of about 



OF EXTRA RECIPES COLD FANCY SWEETS 493 

three inches and one inch wide on an ungreased baking-tin ; brush these 
over with whole beaten-up raw egg and put into a rather quick oven to 
bake for about thirty minutes, then when a nice golden colour, and quite 
light, take the eclairs up and set aside till cold ; then open each one at 
the side and fill up with garnishing cream, using a bag and pipe for the 
purpose ; then glaze with vanilla-flavoured glace (vol. i. page 42), and 
sprinkle over with a little finely-chopped blanched pistachio nuts ; dish 
up en couronne and use for a dinner or other sweet. See ' Eclairs a la 
Palmerston,' and also vol. i. page 316. 



Little Puffs a la Francaise 
PetUs Choux <i la Frai'ru ise 

Prepare a paste as for Cream Buns, and cook them in the same way, 
making them about half the size of the cream buns ; when cooked 
and cool open at the top and partly fill in with cooked meringue 
(see recipe, 'Artichokes a la d'EstirtSes') or with pastry custard (vol. i. 
page 41), and with some garnishing cream form a little rose on the top of 
each, using a forcing bag with a large rose pipe ; garnish the cream here 
and there with some crystallised rose and violet leaves. Dish up en 
couronne on a dish-paper, and serve as a pretty light sweet for dinner or 
any cold collation. 



494 MES. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 



CHAPTER XIII 
FANCY JELLIES, CREAMS, AND COLD PUDDINGS 

To Turn-out Jellies and Creams 

Dip the mould into hot water, pass a clean cloth over the bottom to 
absorb any moisture, place the plate or dish over the bottom of the 
mould, turn them over together and then lift off the mould. 

Lemon Jelly 
Gelee au Citron 

Lemon Jelly referred to in the following recipes as No. 1 is that 
given in vol. i. page 351. Lemon Jelly referred to as No. 2 is prepared 
in the same way, but made stronger by using two ounces of Marshall's 
Finest Leaf Gelatine, instead of one and a half ounces. This is necessary 
when the jelly has to bear garnishing. 

Jelly a la Duchesse 
Gelee a la Duchesse 

Take one quart of Lemon Jelly (No. 1), when cool flavour with a 
wineglass of Noyeau, a wineglass of Kirsch liqueur, a wineglass of 
brandy; when the jelly is beginning to set, add to it one ounce of very 
finely-shredded blanched pistachio nuts, and one ounce of fresh cocoanut 
that has been peeled, and then cut in Julienne shreds about one inch 
long ; pour into any fancy jelly mould, and, when set, turn out and serve 
in the usual manner. 

Jelly a la Carlton 
Gelee a la Carlton 

Take one quart of Lemon Jelly (No. 1), flavour it when cool with two 
wineglasses of orange brandy and one wineglass of Chartreuse liqueur ; 
mix with it one tablespoonful of .very finely-shredded uncrystallised 



OF EXTRA RECIPES FANCY JELLIES, CREAMS, ETC. 495 

cherries, one ounce of blanched Jordan almonds that are cut in slices 
lengthwise ; pour this into a fancy jelly mould that is lined with Lemon 
Jelly (No. 2) and garnished with shredded blanched pistachios that are 
sprinkled over the mould lightly, and then set with more jelly. Turn 
out in the usual way on a paper, and use at any time as a sweet. 

Punch. Jelly 
QeUe ail 1'nnc/o 

Take one quart of Lemon Jelly (No. 1), flavour it when cool with 
one large wineglass of rum, one wineglass of sherry, one wineglass of 
brandy ; pour into any fancy jelly mould and leave till cold, then 
turn out in the usual way and serve for dinner or ball supper, &c. 

Dantzic Jelly 
QeUe d la Dantzic 

Take a quart of Lemon Jelly (No. 1), and when cool flavour with 
three wineglasses of any liqueur or wine, as preferred ; divide it into two 
parts, and mix in one a few drops of liquid carmine, and garnish with 
gold leaf, which must be carefully added to the jelly by means of a 
sharp-pointed knife ; leave the other part uneoloured, and garnish it 
with silver leaf. Take any pretty jelly mould and put it in a basin on 
some pounded ice. Pour into it some of the red-coloured jelly to about 
one inch deep, let this set, then put a layer the same depth of the white, 
and so continue till the mould is full ; leave till set and cold, then turn 
out on a silver or glass dish on a fancy paper the gilt papers are most 
effective for this purpose, especially if for use by artificial light. 

> 
Monte Carlo Jelly 
QeUe a la Monte Carlo 

Take some Lemon Jelly (No. 2), garnish it with gold and silver leaf, 
and divide it into three parts ; colour one with a few drops of sap green, 
one with carmine, and leave the other plain. Take a fancy tiuibal 
mould with a pipe, place it on ice, and line it one-eighth of an inch 
thick with plain jelly ; then garnish with little fern-leaves here and there, 
set these again with jelly, then fill up the mould with layers of the 
coloured jelly, leaving each on ice till firm ; then dip the mould into hot 
water and turn out, garnish round the jelly with iced macedoine of 
fruits (see recipe), and when going to table place a lighted night-light 
in the pipe space in the centre of the jelly. 



496 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

Little Piccolo Jellies 
Petites Geleex & la Piccolo 

Take some egg moulds and line them one-eighth of an inch thick 
with Lemon Jelly (No. 2), having the moulds open for the purpose ; 
when the moulds are lined fill up the top parts with two coloured creams, 
using forcing bags and plain pipes for the purpose, and partly fill up the 
bottom part of the moulds with finely-shredded blanched sweet almonds 
and pistachio nuts ; in the centre of each put a little liquid jelly, then 
close up the moulds, place them on ice till set, and turn out on a piece of 
wet foolscap paper ; then take some little china or plated cups and partly 
fill them with some chopped lemon jelly, place in each of them one of 
the little jellies, then place a little more jelly round the edges, and serve 
on a dish on a paper or napkin for dinner or luncheon. These make a 
very pretty sweet for ball suppers, &c. 

Cream for Piccolo Jellies. Take half a pint of cream, whip it 
stiffly, then mix with it a gill of strong lemon jelly (that has been reduced 
by boiling from half a pint), flavour with half a wineglass of brandy and a 
tablespoonful of Noyeau liqueur or syrup, divide into two parts, colour 
one with carmine and the other with sap green to a pale pistachio colour, 
stir on ice till setting, then put into forcing bags and use. 



Little Neapolitan Jellies 
Petites Gelce* <"> la Napolitaine 

Line some little fancy moulds, such as used for Salads a la Paisse 
{see recipe), with Lemon Jelly (No. 2) about one-eighth of an inch thick ; 
when set fill up the inside with different coloured and flavoured cream 
prepared as below, using for each cream a small forcing bag with plain 
pipe ; then fill up the moulds with more jelly, which must be quite cool 
but not set, and leave them till the jelly is firm ; dip each one 
separately into hot water, and turn out on a dish on a paper and serve 
for dinner, &c. 

Cream for Neapolitan Jellies. For ten to twelve moulds take half 
a pint of stiffly- whipped cream and mix with it one and a half gills of 
lemon jelly while liquid, then divide i,t into four or five portions ; colour 
each with a different colouring, such as sap green, carmine, coffee 
brown, &c, and flavour each part with a different essence ; stir each in a 
small stewpan or basin on some ice till the mixture begins to thicken, 
then put in separate bags and use. - 



OF EXTRA RECIPES FANCY JELLIES, CREAMS, ETC. 497 

Little Jellies with Strawberries 
Petites Gelees aux Fraises 

Take some little bouche or other fancy moulds such as used for 
' Little Salads of Lobster a la Eusse ' (see recipe), and line them thinly 
with Lemon Jelly (No. 2), flavoured with Chartreuse or Maraschino 
liqueur ; fill in the tops of the moulds with a little blanched and 
shredded pistachio nuts that are set with a little of the same jelly 
coloured with a little sap gi^een ; set this, garnish with a little more 
jelly, and then fill in the moulds with fresh strawberries, form a little border 
in the bottom of the mould with a little more pistachio, and fill up the 
moulds with the jelly ; leave till set, then turn out in the usual way on 
a dish on a dish-paper, and serve for a dinner or luncheon sweet or for 
any cold collation. They are very pretty for any cold service. 

Russian Jelly 
Gelee a In Russe 

Take one quart of Lemon Jelly (No. 2), and when cool add two 
wineglassfuls of Kirsch liqueur or syrup and one wineglass of brandy ; 
divide it into three portions, colour one with liquid carmine, one with a 
very little sap green, and leave the remaining part plain; whip these 




separately till frothy throughout, and when nearly set pour them into 
any fancy mould that is resting in a little ice in alternate layers, and leave 
it on ice till ready to serve ; then dip the mould into warm water, turn 
out on a dish-paper, and serve for a fancy sweet for dinner, luncheon, &c. 

Claret Jelly with Vanilla Cream 
Gelee au Yin Rouge et Creme Vanille 

Put a quarter of a pint of water into a stewpan with four ounces of 
loaf-sugar ; bring to the boil, and then dissolve in it not quite half an 
ounce of Marshall's Finest Leaf Gelatine ; let it get cool, but not set : 

K K 



498 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

then mix into it a wineglassful of brandy, a few drops of carmine, and 
three-quarters of a pint of claret; pour it into the nest mould, if you 
have it, or any other fancy shape, with a pipe, and put the jelly away in 
a cool place to set ; then turn out on to a dish, and garnish the centre, 
and at intervals round the dish, with a compote of French plums, as 
below. Have some cream whipped stiff, and to each half-pint add two 
ounces of castor sugar and a few drops of vanilla essence, and by means 
of a forcing bag and large rose pipe garnish between the fruits with 
this ; sprinkle over a little pistachio that has been blanched, skinned and 
chopped, and serve for a dinner or luncheon sweet. 

Compote of Plums for Claret Jelly. Take half a pound of 
French plums, put them into a stewpan with two and a half gills of 
cooking claret, the peel of one lemon, and a strip of cinnamon about one 
inch long tied up together ; sweeten with two ounces of loaf-sugar, add 
a few drops of liquid carmine ; let it simmer gently till the liquor is 
reduced to a creamy thickness, remove the lemon peel, &c. ; then set aside 
till cold and use. 

Mosaic Jelly 
Gelee Mosaique 

Take one quart of Lemon Jelly (No. 2), and line a plain Charlotte 
mould with it so as to form a lining to the mould about one-eighth of 
an inch thick ; arrange the mould regularly all over with rounds of 
custard, about one-eighth of an inch thick, and the size of a shilling, 
the centres to be about the size of a threepenny -piece ; as the mould is 




being lined with the rings they must be set carefully with more jelly to 
keep them in their places ; fill up the centre of the mould with the little 
rounds and cuttings from the rings, using more jelly to set them until 
the mould is fulL When firm turn out on a dish-paper and serve for 
dinner or luncheon sweet. 

Custard for Mosaic Jelly. Put rather better than half a pint of 
milk to boil with two ounces of loaf or castor sugar, a little piece of 
lemon peel, and a bayleaf ; boil for a minute or two and dissolve in it 
not quite half an ounce of Marshall's gelatine. Mix two raw yolks of 



OF EXTRA RECIPESFANCY JELLIES, CREAMS, ETC. 499 

eggs in a basin ; stir the milk on to the eggs ; put back into the stewpan 
and stir it on the fire to thicken ; then rub through the tammy ; add a 
few drops of vanilla essence, a wineglass of brandy, two tablespoonfuls 
of Maraschino ; then pour into a saute pan or on to a deep baking-tin, 
and let it stand till firm ; then stamp out the rings with two plain round 
cutters. 

Pineapple Jelly 
Gelee aux Ananas 

Take some Lemon Jelly (No. 2), when cool flavour it with a wineglass 
of pineapple syrup, one wineglass of brandy, one of Maraschino. Take a 
fancy jelly mould, line it about the eighth of an inch thick with the jelly, 
standing the mould in a tin or basin on some crashed ice. Ornament 
the mould with little finely-cut shreds of raw cocoanut and strips of 
thinly cut angelica and blanched pistachio nuts, and uncrystallised 
cherries ; set the garnish to the side of the mould with a little more jelly, 
and then fill the mould up with thinly-cut slices of raw. ripe, or tinned 
pineapple, setting with more of the jelly till the mould is quite full. 
Then leave till set, and turn out on a dish on a paper or napkin, and 
serve for a sweet for dinner or luncheon or ball supper, &c. 

Medlar Jelly 
Getie aux N&fles 

Peel, core, and cut up some ripe medlars (without bruises), and to 
each pound add half a pint of water and the zest of half a lemon ; cook to 
a pulp, then pass through a thin, warm, canvas bag or cloth ; put this in 
a clean stewpan, and to each pint of the juice add three-quarters of 
a pound of loaf-sugar ; let this boil down quickly, keep skimmed, and 
when boiled to the consistency of thick cream, remove from the stove 
and let it cool a little ; then flavour it with a few drops of vanilla essence, 
and pour it into the dish in which it has to be served. A glass dish or 
little custard cups are nice for this, and whipped cream sweetened and 
flavoured with vanilla can be handed. 

This mixture can be moulded by adding to each pint of the jelly 
while warm half an ounce of Marshall's gelatine and a few drops of 
carmine. Let it set, turn it out, and garnish with a compote of medlars 
and whipped cream. 

Compote of Medlars. Peel the medlars and cook in Syrup (vol. i. 
page 42), flavoured with lemon peel and coloured with carmine, until 
they present a spongy appearance ; then take up, strain the syrup over, 
and use when cool. 

K K 2 



500 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

Calf' s-foot Jelly 

Take four or five fresh, well-cleansed calves' feet, split each into 
halves, put them into about a gallon of clean, cold water, bring gently 
to the boil, then skim the water well, draw the pan to the side of the 
stove, partly cover it, and let them continue gently boiling for four and 
a half to five hours, when it will have reduced to half the quantity, during 
which time keep well skimmed. Then strain off the stock through a 
perfectly clean hair sieve into a china basin, set it aside in a cool place 
till the next day, when it should be in a stiff jelly ; scrape off all the fat 
with a clean iron spoon, then take a piece of clean muslin dipped into 
boiling water, and with it wash off any of the grease remaining ; put 
the stock into a perfectly clean stewpan with about two pounds of loaf 
sugar, the strained juice of ten large or fourteen small lemons, with 
the finely-cut peel of the same, eight or ten cloves, a piece of cinnamon 
about two inches long, crushed up, two bayleaves, about a teaspoonful of 
Marshall's Saffron Yellow, eight raw whites of eggs that are just whipped 
up together ; bring the mixture gently to the boil, then simmer gently 
on the side of the stove for about fifteen minutes. Have a clean jelly 
bag warmed with boiling water, and then pass the jelly through it three 
or four times, and when clear set it aside till cool, but not set ; add 
to each quart three wineglasses of any kind of liqueur or wine, and 
mould ; turn out and use. 

If the jelly is required for carrying any fruit, it will need more 
reducing, so that it is strong enough to carry the weight, or it might 
have a few sheets of Marshall's gelatine added to it before clarifying. 



Sultana Sponge Jelly 
Gelee a la Sultana 

Wash and dry one and a half pounds of picked sultanas, then put them 
in a stewpan with enough cold water to cover them, bring to the boil, 
put them in a cullender and rinse in cold water ; return to the stewpan 
and cover them with a quart and half a pint of boiling water, add half a 
pound of loaf-sugar, the finely-chopped peel of a lemon, the strained 
juice of two lemons, a piece of cinnamon about one inch long, and two 
bayleaves ; boil together for half an hour, then strain and remove the 
cinnamon and bayleaf, and pound the sultanas till reduced to a pulp ; 
keep the liquor warm in which the fruit was cooked, and dissolve in it 
one and a half ounces of Marshall's gelatine ; then mix it with the fruit 



OF EXTRA RECIPES FANCY JELLIES, CREAMS, ETC. 501 

puree, and add two wineglasses of Maraschino, same of brandy and of 
rum, a few drops of carmine, and a teaspoonful of vanilla essence. 
When the puree is cool, put it in a whipping-tin, and whip till quite 
like a sponge. Line a fancy mould with Lemon Jelly (No. 2) about one- 
eighth of an inch thick, and garnish it with uncrystallised cherries. 
Then pour in the prepared mixture, and put away in a cool place. When 




set dip the mould in warm water and turn out on a dish, and fill up the 
centre with stiffly-whipped garnishing cream (see recipe) by means of a 
forcing bag and large rose pipe ; serve for a sweet for dinner or any cold 
collation. If liked, the sponge can be put in the charged ice-cave for 
about one hour and frozen, in which case dip into tepid water to turn 
out. Use for dinner, &c. 

Cherries for Sultana SroNGE. Cut the cherries in small pieces 
and mix with a little lemon jelly coloured with a few drops of carmine 
and flavoured with brandy or any liqueur ; set aside on ice, then 
use. 

Cranberry Jelly 

Gelee de Canneberges 

Wash the cranberries well in several cold waters, drain them on a 
sieve or in the cullender, and put them to cook, using half a pint of 
water for each pound of berries ; let them boil gently for half an hour, 
removing the scum as it rises ; strain off the liquor, and add to it one 
pound of loaf-sugar to each pint, colour it with a few drops of carmine, 
and boil it down to the consistency of thick cream ; put it aside to cool, 
and before it is quite cold pour it into glasses or a glass dish, and when 
cold serve with cream sweetened and flavoured with vanilla or other 
essence. 



502 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

This jelly can also be moulded, if desired, by boiling up the juice 
with the sugar and dissolving in it half an ounce of Marshall's Finest 
Leaf Gelatine for each pint, then adding a wineglass of Maraschino 
liqueur or syrup, a wineglass of brandy and one of rum, and a little 
carmine to colour it ; pour it into the mould, and put it on ice, or in a 
cool place to set. 

Rowanberry Jelly 

Take one quart of Lemon Jelly (No. 2) and boil it down to one 
pint, then set it aside till somewhat cool, but not set. Put two pounds of 
rowanberries into cold water the day before using, and change the water 
occasionally, drain them and put them to cook, and let them draw down 
on the side of the stove till into a pulp ; take one pint of the strained 
juice and a quarter-pint of syrup prepared as below, and stir them into 
the jelly, colour the mixture with a few drops of Marshall's Liquid 
Carmine, flavour it with a large wineglass of brandy or Maraschino or 
Kirsch, and pour into any fancy jelly mould ; set the mould on ice till 
cold, then turn out and serve for dinner, luncheon, or any cold collation. 

Syrup for Rowanberry Jelly. Take four ounces of the best 
loaf-sugar, the finely-cut peel of one lemon, a piece of stick cinnamon 
(about two inches long), and one and a half gills of water ; boil to a 
quarter of a pint, then strain through muslin and use. 

Plum Jelly 
Puree de Prunes 

Put one pound of ripe plums into a stewpan with half a pound of 
loaf sugar, one pint of water, the juice of one lemon, and cook for about 
eight minutes ; dissolve in it three-quarters of an ounce of Marshall's 
gelatine, add a few drops of carmine, a wineglass of Kirsch or Noyeau 
syrup, and rub through the tammy ; pour the mixture into any plain or 
fancy jelly mould, and let it set. When required, turn it out and garnish 
with little piles of Snow cream (vol. i.), sprinkle a little red-coloured 
sugar on the top of the cream, and serve for dinner or luncheon. 

Almond Custard 

Creme cVAmandes 

Put half a pound of Valencia almonds in cold water and bring to the 
boil, then strain and rinse them in cold water, and rub them in a cloth 
to take off the skins ; pound the almonds in a mortar till smooth, then 
add half a pound of castor sugar, three tablespoonfuls of orange-flower 



OF EXTRA RE0IPE8 FANCY JELLIES, CREAMS, ETC. 503 

water, and three whole raw eggs ; mix into a smooth paste, add a 
quarter of a pound of desiccated cocoanut and a quarter of an ounce of 
Cowan's Baking Powder, and mix with three-quarters of a pint of new 
milk ; then put the whole into a buttered pie-dish, and bake for about 
forty minutes. When cooked put aside till cold, then turn out on to a 
glass dish, smooth over with a palette-knife, and cover the top with 
stiffly-whipped cream ; ornament the top of this in any pretty design 
with the same cream, using a forcing bag with a large rose pipe for the 
purpose, and serve for B sweet. 

Little Creams of Vanilla and Pineapple 
Petites Bava raises Vanilles aux Ananas 

Put two and a half gills of new milk into a Btewpan with a split pod 
of vanilla and three ounces of castor or loaf sugar ; bring to the boil, and 
then let the pod infuse for about ten minutes ; then mix in half an ounce 
of Marshall's Leaf Gelatine ; put three raw yolks of eggs into a basin and 
mix them with a wooden spoon, stir the milk on to this, then pour the 
mixture into the stewpan again, and stir it over the fire till it thickens, 
but do not let it boil ; add a few drops of Marshall's Liquid Carmine, 
tammy it, and put it aside till somewhat cool. Prepare another 
Bavaroise mixture with the same amount of sugar, eggs, gelatine, and 
rather better than a half-pint of milk. When it is cool, mix with it six 
or eight drops of saffron yellow, eight drops of essence of pineapple, and 
a wineglass of pineapple syrup, a tablespoonful of brandy, and a salt- 
spoonful of vanilla essence ; when the mixtures are quite cool, add to 
each portion a half-pint of stiffly-whipped cream, and mix well together; 
take some little moulds, holding about a quarter of a pint or less each, 
line each with well-flavoured Lemon Jelly (No. 2), and colour that 
which is used for the lining of the top of the mould with a few drops of 
liquid carmine. Then pour the mixtures in alternate layers of pink and 
yellow, letting the first layer partly set before adding the other, and so 
on until the moulds are full ; leave till set, and turn out the bavaroise 
and dish up on a dish-paper. Serve for a dinner or luncheon sweet, or for 
any cold collation. The above quantity is sufficient to fill about twelve 
little moulds. 

Vanilla Bavaroise with Fruits 
Bavaroise Vanille aux Fruits 

Put into a stewpan three-quarters of a pint of new milk, three ounces 
of castor sugar, a split pod of vanilla, and bring to the boil ; stand the pan 
in the bain-marie for about fifteen minutes to infuse ; then remove the 



504 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

pod, and add half an ounce of Marshall's gelatine, and, when dissolved,, 
stir it on to three raw yolks of eggs that are mixed up in a basin. Then 
return the mixture to the stewpan, and stir over the fire till it thickens, 
but don't let it boil. Then wring it through the tammy, and set away 




till somewhat cool, but not set. Then mix with it rather better than 
half a pint of stiffly- whipped cream, and a teaspoonful of vanilla essence 
and a wineglass of brandy ; pour into any fancy mould, and leave till set ; 
turn out on a dish, and garnish with a macedoine of fruits (see 
recipe), using fresh fruit when in season. Serve for dinner, luncheon, &c. 

Bavaroise a la Pompadour 
Bavaroise a la Pompadour 

Line a fancy jelly mould about one-eighth of an inch thick with 
Lemon Jelly (No. 2) ; then ornament it with shredded pistachio and 
dried cherries in bunches ; set these with more jelly, then line the mould 
with Maraschino cream about a quarter of an inch thick, and fill up 
the centre with pistachio and strawberry (creams) as below in alternate 
layers. Leave till set, then turn out on a dish-paper, and serve for a 
dinner or luncheon sweet, or for any cold collation. 

Pistachio Cream for Bavaroise A la Pompadour. Take half a 
split vanilla pod and two ounces of blanched pistachio nuts, and pound 
till quite smooth. Then put into a stewpan with one and a half ounces 
of castor sugar, two gills of single cream ; bring to the boil, then let it 
infuse in the bain-marie for about ten minutes, and mix with it not 
quite a quarter of an ounce of Marshall's Leaf Gelatine, and then stir it 
on to two raw yolks of eggs. Keturn to the stewpan, and stir over the 
fire till thick, but don't let it boil. If needed, add a few drops of 
Marshall's Sap Green to heighten the colour ; then rub through a tammy. 
When cool, mix with it a saltspoonful of vanilla essence, two tablespoon- 
fuls of orange-flower water, one tablespoonful of brandy and Maraschino, 
one and a half gills of stiffly-whipped cream, and use. 



OF EXTRA RECIPESFANCY JELLIES, CREAMS, ETC. 505 

Strawberry Cream for Bavaroise a la Pompadour. Boil a 
quarter of a pint of milk, sweeten it with one ounce of castor sugar, then 
dissolve in it a quarter of an ounce of Marshall's gelatine, and stir it on 
to two raw yolks of eggs. Return to the stewpan and stir over the fire 
till thick, but don't let it boil ; then take off and add a half-pint of 
pounded strawberries (fresh or bottled), and a few drops of Marshall's 
Carmine ; tammy, and, when cool, add a quarter of a pint of stiffly- 
whipped cream, and a tablespoonful of Maraschino liqueur or syrup, and 
use. 

Maraschino Cream for Bavaroise a la Pompadour. Mix one 
and a half gills of Lemon Jelly (No. 2) with half a gill of thick cream, 
flavour with a wineglass of Maraschino liqueur, then use. 

Garnish for Mould for Bavaroise a la Pompadour. Put the 
shredded and blanched pistachios in a pan with enough lemon jelly to 
cover, coloured with a little sap green ; stir together on ice till setting, 
then use. Prepare the cherries in the same way, using for the colour 
a few drops of carmine. Stir both on ice till setting, then use. 

Bavaroise a la Cleveland 
Bavaroise & la Cleveland 

Take one quart of Lemon Jelly (No. 2), put with it six raw ripe 
peeled bananas, the finely-chopped peel of one lemon, one orange, two 
bayleaves, a half-stick of vanilla pod split, two tablespoonfuls of 
pineapple or greengage or apricot jam ; boil together for about fifteen 
minutes into a pulp, stirring often during the time ; add a few drops of 
carmine and a saltspoonful of apricot yellow, the juice of one orange ; 
then rub through a clean tammy cloth, and, when ,0001, add two wine- 
glasses of Maraschino syrup and one of brandy. Put a fancy jelly 
mould on some crushed ice and line the mould with Lemon Jelly (No. 2) ; 
then garnish it prettily with little stamped-out rounds of fresh cocoanut 
about the size of a threepenny-piece, and halves of dried uncrystallised 
cherries and French plums; set these with more jelly, and fill up the 
centre with the puree ; leave on ice till set, then turn out on a paper on 
a dish, and use for dinner, luncheon, ball supper, receptions, &c. 

Pineapple Bavaroise a la Margaux 

Bavaroise aux Ananas a la Margaux 

Put into a stewpan three-quarters of a pint of new milk, three 
ounces of castor sugar and split pod vanilla ; bring to the boil and let 



506 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

it infuse in the bain-marie for about fifteen minutes ; then add to it half 
an ounce of Marshall's gelatine and stir till dissolved ; then mix on to 
three raw yolks of eggs and return to the stewpan and stir over the 
fire till the mixture thickens, but do not let it boil ; add half a salt- 
spoonful of apricot yellow and rub through a tammy. Have a pine- 
apple, freed from skin and pips and finely-sliced, and boiled for about ten 
minutes in water sufficient to cover it, with six ounces of loaf sugar (or 
a tinned pine can be used) ; then take up and pound till smooth and 
rub through a fine hair sieve ; add one and a half gills of this puree to 
the Bavaroise mixture, with a wineglass of Maraschino or Noyeau liqueur 
and half a wineglass of brandy and one and a half gills of stiffly-whipped 
cream. Have a fancy jelly mould lined one-eighth of an inch thick 
with nicely flavoured Lemon Jelly (No. 2) ; colour some more jelly with 
carmine and have some plain ; pour these out on tins about a quarter 
of an inch thick and leave till firm ; then stamp them out with any 
small fancy cutter and arrange them tastefully in the mould with a little 
blanched and finely-shredded pistachio nut set with green-coloured 
jelly ; fix the garnish with a little liquid jelly to keep it in place ; then 
pour the Bavaroise mixture into the prepared mould and leave it till 
set ; turn out on a dish-paper or napkin, and use for a dinner or 
luncheon sweet, or for any cold collation. 



Bavaroise a l'lmperiale 
Bavaroise a l'lmperiale 

Put a plain Charlotte mould in a basin containing a little ice, and 
line it about one-eighth of an inch thick with Lemon Jelly (No. 2) that 
is flavoured with rum and sherry ; arrange the rounds of apricot and 




cream (see below) alternately overlapping each other in the mould until 
it is quite covered, and set the garnish with more jelly ; then fill up 
the inside of the mould with alternate layers of apricot puree and cream 
(made by dissolving the remains of the apricot and cream separately 



OF EXTRA RECIPES FANCY JELLIES, CREAMS, ETC. 507 

and stirring each until beginning to set, when they are ready to use) 
and chocolate cream (as below), being careful to pour each puree in 
the mould when it is beginning to get set, and letting it get somewhat 
set before pouring in the next layer ; then, when firm, turn out on a 
dish with a dish-paper or napkin on it, and garnish it round with 
chopped jelly. Serve for a dinner or luncheon sweet, or for a cold 
collation. 

Apricot for Bavaroise a l'Imperiale. Take half a pound of fresh 
ripe or tinned apricots, pound them with three ounces of castor sugar 
till smooth ; add a saltspoonful of Marshall's Apricot Yellow, and mix 
with it half a pint of warm water, in which has been dissolved half an 
ounce of Marshall's gelatine, or a half-pint of the liquor from the tin 
can be used instead of water ; flavour with two wineglasses of Mara- 
schino syrup and the juice of a lemon ; then rub all through a tammy 
cloth, pour the mixture into a saute pan or on a flat dish, in thickness 
about a quarter of an inch, and leave it till set ; then stamp it out in 
rounds with a plain round cutter about the size of a sixpenny-piece and 
use as directed. 

Cream for Bavaroise a l'Imperiale. Take half a pint of single 
cream, mix with it two ounces of castor sugar and half a vanilla-pod 
split ; bring to the boil, then stand it in the bain-marie to infuse for 
about ten minutes; dissolve in it a quarter of an ounce of Marshall's 
gelatine ; then wring through a tammy, and pour the mixture into a 
saute pan or flat dish ; let it cool, but not set ; then sprinkle on it six 
or eight drops of Marshall's Liquid Carmine, and carefully draw a fork 
through the cream to give it a mottled appearance ; then let it get firm 
and use as directed. 

Chocolate Cream for Bavaroise a l'Imperiale. Grate one ounce 
of Fry's Caracas Chocolate, put it into a stewpan with an ounce of castor 
sugar and a gill of boiling milk ; boil up, and then dissolve in it not 
quite a quarter of an ounce of Marshall's gelatine; rub through the 
tammy, and mix with a gill and a half of stiffly-whipped cream, a 
wineglass of Maraschino syrup, and use. 

Rubanee Cream 

Creme d la Mubanee 

Take half a pint of milk, two ounces of castor sugar, a split pod of 
vanilla, and the peel of one lemon, and boil them up, and let them infuse 
in the bain-marie for about ten minutes ; then mix in half an ounce of 
Marshall's Leaf Gelatine, stirring together till the latter is dissolved ; 



508 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

mix this on to three raw yolks of eggs in a basin, return the mixture 
to the stewpan, and stir it over the fire until it thickens ; wring or rub 
it through the tammy, and, when cool, flavour it with a wineglass of 
Maraschino liqueur, a wineglass of brandy, and half a wineglassful of 
orange-flower water. Divide the cream into two portions ; colour one 
with a few drops of carmine, and leave the other plain ; then add to 
each portion a gill of stiffly- whipped cream. Line a fancy jelly mould 
about an eighth of an inch thick with Lemon Jelly (No. 2), arrange at 
the top part of the mould a little red-coloured jelly, place the mould on 
ice, and when the jelly is set pour in the prepared creams in alternate 
layers. When the cream is set, turn out on to a dish on a dish-paper, 
and serve for a sweet for dinner or luncheon, or any cold collation. 

Compote of Melon a la Creme 
Compote de Melon a la Creme 

Remove the peel and pips from a ripe melon and cut it in slices 
about a quarter of an inch thick, put it in a dish or pan and sprinkle it 
with preserved ginger that is cut in little dice shapes ; prepare a syrup 
to pour over the fruit by putting six ounces of loaf-sugar to boil with 
three-quarters of a pint of water, half an ounce of ginger, and a little 
piece of cinnamon about two inches long ; let this reduce to half the 
quantity, strain it over the melon, and then put aside on ice till 
thoroughly cold ; dish up in the form of a circle, and fill up the centre 
with stiffly-whipped and sweetened cream (see ' Cream for Garnishing '), 
pour the remaining syrup round the dish, and serve for a sweet for 
luncheon or dinner, or for a cold collation. 

Chartreuse of Peaches a la Royal 
Chartreuse de Peches a la Royale 

Take some peeled raw ripe peaches (or tinned) and cut them in thin 
slices, colour half these lightly where the stone was removed with sap 
green and half with liquid carmine, using the cork of the bottle to dot 
the colours on, set the colouring with a little Lemon Jelly (No. 2). 
Thinly line a plain Charlotte mould with Lemon Jelly (No. 2), arrange 
the slices of peach inside it, red and green alternately ; when the mould 
is quite covered with the slices, set with a little more jelly to keep the 
fruit in place. Prepare a Bavaroise mixture as for ' Almond Charlotte 
a la Beatrice,' fill up the mould with it and let it set ; turn out the 
Chartreuse on a dish on a paper, and serve for a dinner or luncheon sweet 
or for any cold collation. 



OF EXTRA RECIPES FANCY JELLIES, CREAMS, ETC. 509 

Chestnut Cream 
Cream aux Matrons 

Take for ten to twelve persons two pounds of sound chestnuts that 
have been weighed after being shelled and skinned ; then put them into 
a stewpan with a pint of cream, a gill and a half of milk, a tablespoonful 
of brandy, a few drops of essence of vanilla, four tablespoonfuls of 
orange-flower water, four ounces of castor sugar, and two ounces of 
fresh butter; cover over the pan with the lid, place it in a bain- 
marie in the oven, and let the nuts cook till tender and almost dry, 
which will take about one and a half hours ; then rub them through a 
fine wire sieve, mix with a large wineglassful of Maraschino and the 
same of brandy, half a pint of stiffly-whipped cream, and a few drops of 
carmine ; mix into a nice smooth, light paste, dish up in a pile on a glass 
or silver dish, garnish with finely-shredded pistachio nuts and with 
plain or coloured whipped cream, and serve for a sweet for dinner or 
luncheon, or with meringues, or for filling pastry. To shell the nuts, cut 
off the tops and put them on a baking-tin in the oven for about twenty 
minutes. 

Vanilla Cream in Little Cases 
Crime \ r >iiiille en Petite* Gaisses 

Whip stiffly half a pint of double cream, mix it with four ounces 
of castor sugar and a teaspoonful of essence of vanilla, put into little 
stiff-edged paper cases by means of a forcing bag and large rose pipe, 
ornament them with sharp-pointed pieces (about two inches in length) 
of cut angelica and strips of dried cherries, place them in the ice-cave 
or on a tin on ice for about half an hour, dish them up on a paper or 
napkin, and serve for a sweet for luncheon or dinner, or use for 
garnishing fancy cakes or handing with them. 

Vienna Cream 
Greme d la Vienne 

Put into a stewpan one and a half pints of new milk, two bayleaves, 
three ounces of castor sugar, and a pinch of ground cinnamon ; bring 
this to the boil, then mix into it four ounces of Marshall's Creme de 
Biz that has been mixed with four tablespoonfuls of orange-flower 
water, stir altogether over the fire till boiling, simmer for a few minutes, 
tammy and divide into two parts ; colour one part with a few drops of 
Marshall's Liquid Carmine to make it a pale salmon colour, and leave 



510 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

the other plain. Take a silver or glass dish, pour in it a layer of the 
red mixture about one inch thick, spread over this a layer of the 
chocolate puree, as below, arrange on this a layer of the white, then 
another layer of the chocolate puree ; form a pretty border round the 
dish with cream, prepared as below, using a forcing bag and large 
rose pipe for the purpose, and arrange a rose design with the same 
cream in the centre of the border ; garnish here and there with small 
uncrystallised cherries and strips of angelica, and serve for a sweet for 
dinner or luncheon or for any cold collation. 

Chocolate Puree for Vienna Cream. Put a quarter of a pound 
of finely-cut-up vanilla chocolate into a stewpan with half a pint of 
hot water and two ounces of Marshall's Icing Sugar ; bring this to the 
boil ; then stir into it half an ounce of Brown and Poison's Corn Flour 
that has been mixed till smooth with a little cold water ; stir again 
till it boils, strain, and use when cooling. 

Cream for Garnish for Vienna Cream. Take half a pint or 
cream, and whip it till very stiff, sweeten with one and a half ounces of 
castor sugar, flavour with a few drops of vanilla essence, sprinkle in 
a few drops of carmine, draw a fork through it so as to give it a 
mottled appearance, put it into a forcing bag with a large rose pipe 
and use. 

Pompadour Cream 
( 'r&me d la Pompadour 

Put into a stewpan half a pint of new milk with the finely-chopped 
peel of a lemon and two ounces of castor sugar ; bring this to the boil ; 
then stir into it two and a half ounces of Marshall's Creme de Riz, and 
simmer it for a few minutes ; then stir into it half a pint of double 
cream, one ounce of preserved ginger that is cut up into tiny dice shapes, 
as much ground ginger as. will cover a threepenny-piece, a few drops of 
vanilla essence, and one ounce of dried cherries cut into dice shapes ; 
pour the mixture into a glass or silver dish, and leave it till cold; then 
ornament the top with the cream, prepared as below, sprinkle over it 
here and there a few crystallised rose-leaves, place it on a dish on a 
fancy paper, and serve for a sweet for dinner or luncheon. 

Cream for Garnishing Pompadour Cream. Whip half a pint of 
double cream till stiff, sprinkle in a little ground ginger, one and a half 
ounces of castor sugar, and a few drops of vanilla essence ; colour part 
of the cream with a few drops of sap green and leave the other part 
plain, place both in one forcing bag with a large rose pipe, and use as 
directed above. 



OF EXTRA RECIPES FANCY JELLIES, CREAMS, ETC. 511 

Cream a la Meque 

Creme d la Meque 

Take one pint of stiffly-whipped cream, mix with it three ounces of 
castor sugar, a saltspoonful of vanilla essence, and a tablespoonful of 
Maraschino liqueur. Have one pound of fresh, raw, ripe strawberries, cut 
into small square pieces, and sprinkled over with a little liqueur; stir these 
into the cream and dish up in a pile in the centre of the dish ; pour 
round the base some Banana puree (see recipe), garnish with little 
meringues that have been made about the size of a walnut and baked a 
nice fawn colour, sprinkle on the cream some finely-shredded blanched 
pistachio nuts, and serve for a sweet for diuner or luncheon or any cold 
collation. 

Cream a la Vincent 

('rrnir (i hi Vincent 

Put into a stewpan half a pint of milk, three bayleaves, three ounces 
of castor sugar, as much ground ginger as will cover a threepenny-piece ; 
bring to the boil, and dissolve in it half an ounce of Marshall's gelatine ; 
stir in by degrees three raw yolks of eggs, and stir over the fire till it 
thickens, but do not let it boil ; rub it through a tammy, and set aside 
till cold ; then mix with it a wineglassful of sherry, a tablespoonful of 
orange-flower water, a wineglassful of Maraschino or Noyeau liqueur 
or syrup, and half a pint of stiffly-whipped cream. Take a fancy jelly 
mould, set it in a basin on ice, and line it a quarter of an inch thick 
with lemon jelly that is coloured with a few drops of carmine, and 
garnished with a little silver leaf; when this is set pour in the prepared 
mixture and leave again till set, and turn out on to a fancy dish-paper, 
and serve for dinner, luncheon, ball suppers, or any cold collation. 

Little French Creams a la d'Artois 
Petites Bavaroises d la d'Artoi* 

Take some small fancy jelly moulds, set them in some crushed ice, 
and then line them with Lemon Jelly (No. 2) ; let the jelly set, then 
line each mould with a different coloured Bavaroise mixture, as below, 
in thickness of about a quarter of an inch, and then fill the moulds up 
entirely with a puree of bananas, as below. Leave till set, then turn out 
and dish up on a paper, arranging in alternate colours round the dish. 
Use for dinner, &c. 



512 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

Bavaeoise for Little French Creams a la d'Artois. Take two 
gills of new milk, put it into a stewpan with two ounces of castor sugar, 
and the split pod of vanilla ; bring to the boil, let it infuse for a quarter 
of an hour in the bain-marie, remove the pod, which can be used again, 
add a quarter of an ounce of Marshall's gelatine, and mix the milk on to 
two raw yolks of eggs ; return to the stewpan, and stir in the bain-marie 
till the mixture thickens, then tammy, and when somewhat cool, flavour 
with a wineglass of Maraschino liqueur and a quarter-pint of stiffly- 
whipped cream ; divide into three parts, colour one with a few drops of 
Marshall's Liquid Carmine and one with Marshall's Sap Green, and leave 
one part white ; then line the moulds as described above. 

Banana Puree for Little French Creams a la d'Artois. Take 
four bananas, remove the skins, and pound up the fruit, mix with two 
tablespoonfuls of pineapple jam, one ounce of castor sugar, and 
a large wineglass of Maraschino ; colour with a few drops of liquid 
carmine and a little apricot yellow, mix with half a pint of Lemon 
Jelly (No. 2), made stronger by reducing a pint to half the quantity. 



Cream a la Nid 
Creme d la Nid 

Take a nest mould, and line it about a quarter of an inch thick with 
Lemon Jelly (No. 2), let this set, then fill it up with blancmange pre- 
pared as below, and let this remain in a cool place till set. Then dip 
the mould into hot water, and turn it out on to a dish. Take some 
blanched and shredded almonds and stick them here and there over the 
jelly ; put a little Royal icing (vol. i.) into a forcing bag with a small 
plain pipe, and force a little out on to the shreds of almonds. Take 
some very finely-cut shreds of cocoanut and lemon peel, and arrange 
it in the form of straws all over the jelly, making it as near as possible 
like a bird's-nest. Take some small egg moulds, fill them with some of 
the blancmange, which must be used while slightly warm ; set these 
aside till cold, turn out, and place the eggs on top of the nest. Serve 
for a sweet for dinner or luncheon, or for any cold collation. The lemon 
jelly need not be used unless liked, the mould being prepared entirely 
with the blancmange mixture instead, and if liked it can be coloured. 

Blancmange for Cream 1 la Nid. Boil one pint of new milk or 
cream with two bayleaves, a piece of cinnamon about an inch long, and 
three ounces of loaf or castor sugar ; let it infuse in the bain-marie for 
about fifteen minutes, then strain off-and mix it with two and a half ounces 



OF EXTRA EECIPES FANCY JELLIES, CREAMS, ETC 513 

of Marshall's Creme de Riz that has first been mixed with a quarter of 
a pint of cold milk ; stir quickly till boiling, then pour into the moulds 
as directed and serve. 

Lilly Pudding 
Ponding a la Lilly 

Take a plain Charlotte mould, line it thinly with Lemon Jelly (No. 2) 
and ornament it in any pretty design with little stamped-out leaves of 
Lemon Jelly (No. 2) that has been coloured with a few drops of carmine 
and allowed to set, little rings of cut angelica, and thinly-cut strips of 
hard-boiled white of egg, using a little more uncoloured lemon jelly to 
keep these garnishes in place. When the garnish is set, fill up the 
mould with the mixture prepared as below, leave it till set, then turn out 
the pudding on to a silver dish on a paper. Serve for a sweet for dinner 
or for any cold collation. 

Lilly Pudding Mixture. Put into a stewpan half a pint of new 
milk, one split vanilla pod, and two ounces of castor sugar ; just bring 
this to the boil, then let it infuse in the bain-marie for about fifteen 
minutes, dissolve in it half an ounce of Marshall's gelatine, mix it on 
to three raw yolks of eggs, and stir again over the fire till the mixture 
thickens ; then remove the pan from the fire, pass the mixture through 
the tammy, mix with it three ounces of ratafia biscuits that have 
been steeped in a wineglassful of brandy and the same of Maraschino, 
add to it two ounces of cut-up uncrystallised cherries and one and a 
half gills of stiffly-whipped cream ; stir again till beginning to set, and 
use as directed above. 

Pudding a la Heine 

Pouding a la Peine 

Line a fancy jelly mould (one with a pipe will be best) with Lemon 
Jelly (No. 2) about one-eighth of an inch thick, and garnish it with 
cut dried cherries, blanched and shredded pistachio nuts, blanched and 
shredded almonds, French plums and dried apricots, or any other nice 
fruits ; cut each kind of fruit in small pieces, and put each in a separate 
stewpan with enough jelly to cover ; colour the jelly mixed with the 
cherries with a little carmine, and that with the apricots with a little 
apricot yellow, and the pistachio with a little sap or apple green. Stir 
each of the garnishes on ice till set ; then line the mould entirely with 
the different garnishes, arranging them in little bunches, such as red, 
green, yellow, black, white, and so on ; set all the garnish with a few 
drops of lemon jelly, so as to keep it in place ; then fill up the mould 

L L 



514 



MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 



with a Bavaroise mixture as below, and when it is set turn it out on a 
dish on a fancy dish-paper, and serve. 

Bavaroise Mixture for Pudding A la Reine. Put rather better 
than half a pint of milk to boil with a stick of split vanilla pod, then 
stand it in the bain-marie and let it infuse with the pod for about 
fifteen minutes ; then dissolve half an ounce of Marshall's Leaf Gelatine 
in it and mix it on to four raw yolks of eggs in a basin, and tammy it ; 
when cool add a small wineglass of brandy, the same of Noyeau liqueur 
or syrup, and two ounces of dried cut fruits, such as cherries, greengages, 
apricots, &c, and add to it half a pint of whipped cream ; pour it into 
the mould. 

Timbal a la Versailles 
Timbale d la Versailles 

Take a plain Charlotte mould, set in a basin of ice, if any is at hand, 
and line it thinly with Lemon Jelly (No. 2), then arrange alternately 
all over the mould little rings of differently coloured custard as below 
that have been cut out with a cutter, as in the engraving ; commence at 
the bottom of the mould and set each ring of custard with a little more 
jelly. When these are set, fill up the centre with macaroons or ratafia 




biscuits that are lightly sprinkled with brandy or any nice liqueur ; then 
take the remains of the custards that are left from the garnishing, melt 
them separately, and to each portion add a large tablespoonful of stiffly- 
whipped cream, and pour them alternately into themould, allowing each to 
get lightly set before pouring in the other ; when the mould is full, put it in 
a cool place to set, and turn it out on to a dish on a dish-paper. This 
quantity is enough for eight to ten persons. 

Chocolate Custard for Timbal A la Versailles. One and a half 
ounces of sugar, two and a half gills of milk, cooked with two ounces of cut- 
up vanilla chocolate till smooth ; dissolve in it half an ounce of Marshall's 
Leaf Gelatine, and mix it on to two raw yolks of eggs in a basin, stir 



OF EXTRA RECIPES FANCY JELLIES, CREAMS, ETC. 515 

over the fire till it thickens ; then add a little coffee brown to colour, and 
tammy it : flavour with a tablespoonful of brandy and two tablespoonfuls 
of Maraschino, and pour it out into a dish about a quarter of an inch in 
depth ; let this get cold, then cut it in rings as stated. 

Strawberry Custard for Timbal a la Versailles. Boil one and a 
half ounces of sugar and half a pint of milk or cream together, and dis- 
solve in it half an ounce of Marshall's Leaf Gelatine ; mix this on to three 
raw yolks of eggs, and stir over the fire or in the bain-marie till it thickens ; 
then add a good quarter of a pint of strawberry pulp and a little carmine to 
colour ; strain or tammy, and finish as in previous recipe. 

Vanilla Custard for Timbal A la Versailles. Boil two ounces of 
castor sugar and half a pint of milk with half a split vanilla pod, and 
dissolve in it a quai'ter of an ounce of Marshall's Leaf Gelatine ; mix this 
on to three raw yolks of eggs, and stir over the fire till it thickens, then 
strain or tammy ; add two tablespoonfuls of cream, and finish as in previous 
recipe. 



Cold Diplomat Pudding 
Ponding Froid d la Biplomate 

Put into a stewpan two and a half gills of cream or milk, a quarter 
of a pound of loaf or castor sugar, the peel of one lemon chopped fine, 
and two bay leaves ; bring to the boil, then stand in the bain-marie to 
infuse for about fifteen minutes, then dissolve in it half an ounce of 
Marshall's gelatine ; put three raw yolks of eggs into a basin, mix up well 
together, then pour the milk on to them, and return the mixture to the 
fire and stir till it thickens; then wring it through a clean tammy cloth, 
and set aside till somewhat cool ; mix with it a wineglass of brandy, 
one of sherry, and half a pint of whipped double cream. Take a 
plain Charlotte mould, set it in a basin with ice, if at hand, line it about 
a quarter of an inch thick with Lemon Jelly (No. 2), and ornament it 
in any pretty design with cut dried fruits, such as cherries, angelica, 
pistachio nuts, &c, setting the garnish with more jelly to keep it in 
place ; then pour some of the prepared bavaroise into the mould about an 
inch thick, and on this place a layer of sliced sponge cake that has been 
sprinkled with any liqueur, such as Maraschino, and on the cake sprinkle 
a few pieces of dried cherries, angelica, apricot, &c. ; and then repeat 
the bavaroise, so continue till the mould is full, and leave it on ice till 
set; turn out on a dish on a paper or napkin, and use for any cold 
collation, ball supper, dinner party, &c. 

L L 2 



516 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

Pineapple Cream 

Creme mix Ananas 

Take half a pint of fresh Pineapple Puree see recipe, ' Pineapple 
Bavaroise a la Margaux ' (if not obtainable, use the tinned fruit). Put 
into a stewpan half a pint of new milk, the finely-chopped peel of a 
lemon, a split pod of vanilla, and three ounces of castor sugar ; bring to 
the boil, then dissolve in it half an ounce of Marshall's Leaf Gelatine, 
and stir it on to three raw yolks of eggs ; stir it again till the mixture 
thickens, rub it through the tammy, and when somewhat cool mix into 
it the pineapple puree, a wineglassful of Maraschino or Noyeau liqueur, a 
few drops of vanilla essence, half a pint of stiffly-whipped cream, and 
an ounce of castor sugar ; stir well together, pour into a fancy jelly 
mould that is lined with Lemon Jelly (No. 2), the top part of the mould 
being ornamented in any pretty design with shredded cocoanut, shredded 
blanched pistachios and dried cherries ; set aside till cold, and turn out 
on to a paper on a flat or fancy dish, and serve for a sweet for dinner, 
luncheon, or for any cold collation. 



OF EXTRA RECIPES DISHES WITH PASTRIES, ETC. 517 



CHAPTEE XIV 
DISHES WITH PASTRIES, PASTES, RICE, ETG. 

INCLUDING ENTREES, SWEETS, REMOVES, SAVOURIES, ETC. 

Vol-au-Vent a la Prince George 
Vol-au-Vent a la Prince George 

Prepare some puff paste (vol. i.) say three-quarters of a pound for 
a vol-au-vent for eight persons and roll it out about half an inch thick ; 
stamp out four pieces with a vol-au-vent cutter which has been dipped 
in boiling water, so that it cuts the paste evenly. Wet a baking-tin all 
over with cold water, place the pieces of paste on it, leaving two pieces 
whole, and removing the centres from the other two pieces by means of 
a smaller-sized vol-au-vent cutter ; put the centre pieces likewise on the 
baking-tin ; brush the paste over with the whole beaten-up egg, and 




bake in a quick oven for fifteen to twenty minutes ; take up, place the 
two whole pieces one on the other, and fasten them together with the 
luting paste (vol. i. p. 40), and then on top of them place the two 
pieces from which the centres were removed, and fasten them together 
with the paste. Whip three or four whites of eggs stiff with a pinch of 
salt, put it into a forcing bag with a rose pipe, and ornament the vol-au- 
vent with it, as shown in the engraving, in lines up the sides and on 
the top, and on the whipped egg arrange alternately little bunches of 



518 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

chopped cooked ham or tongue and blanched and chopped pistachios ; 
put the vol-au-vent in a very moderate oven for about fifteen minutes to 
dry the white of egg and fixing paste ; then dish up on a hot dish on a 
dish-paper or napkin, fill up the hollow centre with the ragout (as below), 
place one of the centre pieces of paste on the ragout, and serve either 
hot or cold. 

KagoUt for Vol-au-vent a la Prince George. Take three-quarters 
of a pound altogether of cooked chicken, rabbit, sweetbread, cooked 
ham or tongue, calves' brains left from any previous meal, cut all 
in pieces about the size of a sixpence, and mix them with a thick 
Veloute sauce (vol. i.) ; make all hot in the bain-marie, and fill in the 
vol-an-vent case with it. 

Vol -au- Vent with Tendons a la Creme 
Vol-mi-Vent aux Tendons d la Creme 

Prepare a vol-au-vent case (see ' Vol-au-Vent a la Prince George '), 
and when garnished with egg mixture and dried, place it on a hot dish 
on a paper, and fill it up with a ragout of tendons from calves' feet 
or breast of veal, as below, and serve for a hot entree for dinner or 
luncheon. 

To Prepare the Tendons for Vol-au-Vent. Take one or two well- 
cleansed calves' feet, put them in a clean cloth and plunge them into cold 
water with a little salt ; bring to the boil on a quick fire and then strain 
off and well wash the feet in cold water ; then return to the saucepan 
and cover with light stock or water, flavour with a plateful of cleansed 
vegetables, such as carrot, onion, turnip, celery, leek, herbs, a tea- 
spoonful of black and white peppercorns, six or eight cloves. Boil 
gently for three to four hours, then take up on a dish, remove the cloth 
and open the feet ; then remove the tendons and cut them up in little 
pieces about one inch long, and mix with sufficient thick boiling Veloute 
sauce (vol. i.) to well moisten it ; rewarm in the bain-marie and then 
fill up the case with it. Any pieces of the feet that are left can be 
used up for another dish, either in kromeskies or fritots, &c, and the liquor 
can be used up for soups. 

Little Croustades of Calf s Brains 
Petites Croustades de Cervelles de Veau 

Take some little corbeille moulds and line them with short paste 
(vol. i.) about one-eighth of an inclrthick, pressing the paste well to the 



OF EXTKA RECIPES DISHES WITH PASTRIES, ETC. 519 

bottom of the moulds, to get them into a nice shape ; prick the bottoms 
well with a fork, to prevent it blistering ; trim the edges evenly, and 
line the paste with a buttered paper, putting the buttered side next the 
paste ; fill up the insides quite full with raw rice or flour, place the 
moulds on a baking-tin, and cook the paste in a moderate oven for 
twenty to thirty minutes, when it should be a pretty fawn colour and 




perfectly crisp ; then take out the papers and rice, remove the cases 
from the moulds, and return them to the oven for a few minutes to dry ; 
when ready to serve, fill them with a ragout prepared as below ; cover 
over each croustade with a lid of puff paste (vol. i.), and bake a light 
fawn colour, and dish up on a paper as shown in the engraving. Serve 
for an entree. 

Ragout for Croustades ok Calf's Brains. Take a set of calfs 
brains and prepare them as in recipe vol. i. p. 33, then cut them into 
neat pieces about the size of a sixpenny-piece ; mix them into a good 
hot, thick, creamy Veloute sauce (vol. i.), add a little chopped parsley, 
and use as directed above. 



Little Patties of Chicken a la Mancelle 
Petites Bouckees de Vclailld d I" Mancelle 

Take some puff paste (vol. i.) that has been rolled six times, and 
stamp it out with a cutter about one and a half inches in diameter and 
one inch thick ; place the rounds on a cold, wet baking-tin, brush them 
over with a whole raw beaten-up egg, using a paste brush for the 
purpose ; then, with a plain round cutter, that is made hot by being 
dipped into boiling water, pierce a circle on each piece of paste to a 
quarter of an inch deep, and bake them in a quick oven for fifteen 
minutes ; then take them from the oven, remove the small circle of paste, 
scoop out the insides, and fill up the spaces with a puree of chicken as 
below, using a forcing bag and pipe for the purpose ; make a little well 
in the centre of this puree with a spoon, which should be occasionally 
dipped into hot water, and fill these wells up with the ragout as below. 



520 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARC4ER COOKERY BOOK 

Put two stiffly-whipped whites of eggs, seasoned with a pinch of salt 
and coralline pepper, into a forcing bag with a large rose pipe, and 
with it ornament the tops of the patties ; sprinkle over this a little 



grated Parmesan cheese, and put them into a moderate oven for twelve 
to fifteen minutes ; then take up and dish in a pile, as in engraving, on 
a bed of fried parsley, on a hot dish, and serve for an entree for dinner 
or luncheon. 

Puree of Chicken for Patties a la Mancelle. Take for ten to 
twelve patties half a pound of cooked chicken and pound it till smooth 
with one ounce of fresh butter, a little coralline pepper and salt, two 
tablespoonfuls of thick Bechamel sauce (vol. i.), two hard-boiled yolks 
of eggs, six raw bearded oysters and a tablespoonful of cream ; rub all 
together through a fine wire sieve, make hot in the bain-marie and use 
as directed above. 

Ragout for Patties A la Mancelle. Put into a stewpan two raw 
fresh eggs, a tablespoonful of Tomato butter (vol. i.), half an ounce of 
fresh butter, a little salt and pepper ; stir over the fire in the bain- 
marie till the mixture thickens, then mix with it three or four cooked 
button mushrooms, one truffle, five or six raw bearded oysters that 
are cut up in dice shapes, and a few drops of strained lemon juice ; then 
use. 

Rissoles a la Richmond 
Rissoles a la Richmond 

Blanch half a set of Calf's Brains (vol. i.), drain and rub them 
through a wire sieve, mix them with four ounces of cooked chicken that 
has been pounded with an ounce of fresh butter and rubbed through a 
wire sieve, add to it a tablespoonful of Bechamel sauce (vol. i.), the 
same of grated Parmesan cheese, a teaspoonful of raw green chopped 
parsley, a good pinch of Marshall's Coralline Pepper, a teaspoonful of 
Liebig Company's Extract of Meat or warm glaze, a pinch of salt, and 
one small peeled and finely-chopped eschalot, and mix all together into 
a smooth paste. Make some rounds of puff paste as for ' Rissoles of 



OF EXTRA EECIPES DISHES WITH PASTRIES, ETC. 521 

Mutton,' and put about a teaspoonful of the prepared mixture on a round 
of paste ; cover with another round of paste, and finish as for ' Rissoles 
of Mutton/ putting sufficient in a frying-basket to cover the bottom, 
and fry them in clean hot fat till a nice brown colour and quite 
crisp, which will take about ten minutes. Dish up in a pile on a dish- 
paper, garnish with Fried Parsley (vol. i.), and serve for an entree for 
dinner or luncheon. 

Rissoles of Mutton 
Rissoles de Mouton 

Take about a quarter of a pound of tender cold roast mutton the 
remains of a joint will do cut it up in very tiny dice shapes ; put four 
good tablespoonfuls of Brown sauce (vol. i.) in a stewpan with a 
small eschalot chopped up fine, and half an ounce of glaze ; boil these 
together till reduced about a quarter part, then mix in the chopped meat 
and set it aside to get cold. Roll out a quarter-pound of puff paste 
(vol. i.) about the eighth of an inch thick, and cut it in rounds about two 
inches in diameter ; lightly brush each piece over on one side with cold 
water ; place on half the rounds about a teaspoonful of the prepared 
meat, cover these over with the other rounds of paste, putting the 
wetted sides towards each other ; press the edges together with the 
fingers, which should first be dipped in a little dry flour ; dip each 
rissole in whole beaten-up egg, and then into freshly-made white bread- 
crumbs ; fry in hot, clean mutton fat till a nice brown colour, and the 
paste is well puffed up. Take up and dish in a circle on a napkin or 
dish-paper, and fill up the centre with fried parsley (vol. i.) and serve 
hot. 

Oyster Rissoles a la Grand Hotel 
Rissoles aux Huitres d la Grand Hotel 

Take some bearded raw oysters for these, allowing one to each 
person ; put four large tablespoonfuls of thick Brown sauce (vol. i.) into 
a stewpan with half an eschalot chopped fine, and season with a dust of 
pepper and half a wineglass of sherry or white wine, half an ounce of 
glaze, and reduce this to half the quantity, keeping it skimmed while 
boiling, then tammy, and mix with it the oysters and put away to cool ; 
take some thin slices of fat cooked bacon or ham, stamp out some little 
rounds by means of a plain round cutter two inches in diameter ; place 
one oyster with a little of the sauce on a piece of the bacon, and then 
put another piece of the bacon on the top, press the edges well together ; 
roll out some puff paste (vol. i.) very thinly, and cut it out by means of 



522 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

a plain round cutter somewhat larger than the one used for the bacon, 
and place the bacon with the oyster between two pieces of the paste, 
wetting the edges with whole beaten-up egg, and pressing them both 
well together to prevent the sauce running out ; put the rissoles into 
enough very clean hot fat to cover them, let them fry for eight to 
ten minutes till a pretty golden colour, take them up and dust over with 
grated Parmesan cheese, and then brown the cheese with the salamander 
and dish on a paper, and garnish with lemon cut in quarters, and serve 
for an entree for dinner or luncheon. 

Little Croustades a la Creme Montglas 
Petites Croustades a la Creme Montglas 

Prepare some little pastry cases formed of puff paste as in vol. i. 
page 363, and bake them till a nice golden colour and quite crisp, then 
remove the insides and set away till cold, and by means of a forcing 
bag and large plain pipe fill up with a ragout mixture as below ; place 




on each the little top strip of paste that was removed from the centre, 
and then dish them on a paper on a flat or entree dish and use, serving 
one to each person for ball supper, &c. 

Ragout for Croustades A la Creme Montglas. Take the breast 
or some other pieces of cold cooked chicken, and some pieces of cooked 
sweetbread or calf's brains, about two tablespoonfuls, two or three 
truffles and button mushrooms, all cut up in dice shapes, and then 
mixed with half a pint of stiffly- whipped cream that has been seasoned 
with salt and a dust of cayenne pepper, and then use. 

Little Lobster Patties a la Creme 
Petites Bouchees de Homard a la Crdme 

Take some little pastry cases (vol. i. page 155) and fill them when 
cold with the ragout of lobster, as below, using a forcing bag and large 
plain pipe for the purpose ; dish up on a dish -paper, garnish with raw 
green parsley just before serving, -place on the top of each a litcle 



OF EXTRA RECIPES DISHES WITH PASTRIES, ETC. 523 

tarragon and chervil, and serve for an entree or second-course dish, or 
for any cold collation. 

RagoCt for Lobster Patties a la Creme. Take the meat from a 
small cooked lobster, cut it into small square pieces, put it into a 
pan with a quarter-pint of stiffly-whipped cream, a quarter-pint of 
stiff Mayonnaise sauce (vol. i.), half a pint of liquid aspic jelly, 
and a little chopped tarragon and chervil ; stir together on ice till 
beginning to set, season with a teaspoon ful of tarragon vinegar, a dust 
of Marshall's Coralline Pepper, and use. 

Fleur "with Meringue 
Fie in- an Meringue 

Have a plain or fancy fleur ring buttered and place it on a buttered 
paper on a baking-tin, line the ring with short paste (vol. i. page 39), 
prick it well on the bottom to prevent it blistering, trim it off evenly 
round the edge of the ring with a knife, and partly fill up the inside with 
a pastry custard (vol. i. page 41) ; put a few little pieces of butter here 
and there on the top to keep it moist, and bake in a moderate oven for 
twenty-five to thirty minutes, when the custard should be a pretty golden 




colour, then remove the fleur ring, and mask the top of the custard over 
with a layer of any nice jam ; fill up the fleur with a stiff Meringue 
mixture (vol. i. page 325), putting it on ornamentally by means of a 
forcing bag and pipe, then dust over with icing sugar from a dredger, 
and place it in a moderate oven for twelve to fifteen minutes to dry ; 
then arrange neatly on the top some nice dried or fresh fruits such as 
strawberries or cherries, dish on a paper or napkin, and serve for a dinner 
or luncheon sweet, or for any cold collation. 

Fleur with Pistachios 

Fleur aux Pistaches 

Line a fleur ring with paste as for Fleur of Apples, and before 
baking fill it with a custard (as below), then bake it for about thirty 



524 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

minutes; remove the fleur ring and place a band of buttered paper 
round the fleur, pour in the souffle mixture (as below) and bake again in 
a moderate oven for twenty to twenty-five minutes. Take it up, remove 
the paper, and serve at once with a few finely-chopped pistachio kernels 
sprinkled on the top and a good Apricot sauce (vol. i.) round it. This 
is a very good sweet for dinner or luncheon, and any left will be nice 
when cold, cut in slices and served with whipped cream sweetened and 
flavoured with vanilla or other essence. 

Custard for Fleur with Pistachios. Mix together one ounce of 
fine flour, two ounces of butter, one raw yolk of egg, one and a half 
ounces of castor sugar, and a quarter of a pint of milk, and stir this 
over the fire until it boils ; then mix into it a tablespoonful of orange- 
flower water, a dessertspoonful of Maraschino liqueur or syrup, and 
one ounce of pistachio nuts which have been blanched and chopped. 

Souffle Mixture for Fleur with Pistachios. Put into a stewpan 
one and a half ounces of fine flour, one and a half ounces of butter, one 
and a half tablespoonfuls of castor sugar, barely half a pint of new milk, 
and two raw yolks of eggs ; mix well together, and stir over the fire 
until it boils ; then add a few drops of vanilla essence, a tablespoonful 
of orange-flower water, two ounces of blanched and chopped pistachio 
nuts, and three large or four small whites of egg which have been 
whipped till very smooth ; when well mixed together, use. 

Pastry with. Preserve 
D'Artois au Confiture 

Take half a pound of puff paste (vol. i.), give it six turns, then roll it 
out about a quarter of an inch thick, and cut from it two strips about 
half a yard long by four and a half to five inches wide ; place one strip 
of the paste on a well-wetted cold baking-tin, and brush over the top 
side with cold water ; then place straight down the centre of one slice 
a layer of any nice jam about one inch think and one and a half 
inches wide ; place the other strip of paste on the top of the one with 
the jam, arranging the two evenly together, and pressing the edges well 
to prevent the jam escaping ; mark the edges of the paste in Vandyke 
shapes with a small sharp-pointed knife, and, with a pastry brush, brush 
all over the paste with whole raw beaten -up egg. Make some incisions 
in the top of the paste from one side to the other, taking care that the 
incisions are not more than the eighth of an inch deep, and arranging 
the cuts so that the space between each is about one inch ; any pretty 
design can be drawn by the knife on--each of these pieces. When ready 



OF EXTRA RECIPES DISHES WITH PASTRIES, ETC. 525 

put the paste into a quick oven, and let it remain for about ten minutes, 
when the baking-tin must be drawn to the mouth of the oven, and the 
paste dusted over with icing sugar by means of a dredger, as this will 
give the pastry a glazed appearance. Ee-close the oven door, and allow 
the paste to bake for about twenty to thirty minutes, when it should 
have risen about four times its original size ; leave it till somewhat cool, 
then cut through each strip with a sharp-pointed knife, and dish up 
the portions in a pile or en couronne on a dish on a paper or napkin, 
and serve for luncheon, &c. 

Boll Jam Pudding 

Ponding an Confiture 

Make a pound of suet paste (vol. i. page 39), roll it out into a square 
about a quarter-inch thick, and spread over it a layer of any nice thick 
jam ; roll up the paste into a neat form, put it into a wet floured cloth, 
tie it up at each end and in the centre, and put it into a saucepan of 
boiling water that has been seasoned with a little salt ; let it simmer 
for about two and a half hours, then take it up, remove the cloth, and 
turn the pudding on to a hot dish. Serve for a sweet for luncheon 
whilst quite hot. 

Pastry Artichokes a la d'Estrees 
ArtichcwU Patisseries d la cPUktrSes 

Take some artichoke moulds of two sizes and line them very thinly 
with wafer paste (prepared as for Pompadours), place a piece of buttered 
paper in each and fill them up with raw .rice or any other dry grain, and 
bake in a moderate oven till the paste is a nice golden colour ; then 
remove the papers and rice and place one of the smaller cases inside a 




large one, joining them together at the bottom with a little Royal icing 
(vol. i.) ; place a small cone of Almond icing (vol. i. page 41) in the 
centre of each, mask these over with meringue mixture, as below, using 
bags and rose pipes for the purpose, sprinkle with a little finely-chopped 
pistachio nuts, and dish up the artichokes on a fancy paper. Serve for 
a sweet for dinner, luncheon, or any cold collation. 



526 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

Meringue Mixture for Pastry Artichokes A la d'Estrees. 
Take four raw whites of eggs and a pinch of salt and whip them together 
till quite stiff, then mix with boiling syrup prepared as below ; divide into 
three parts, colour one part with a few drops of carmine and another 
with enough sap green to make it the colour of pistachio, and leave the 
other part white ; then use as instructed above. 

Syrup for Pastry Artichokes A la d'Estrees. Put half a 
pound of loaf sugar to cook with a quarter-pound of water, keep it well 
skimmed and boil to a thick syrup ; whip four whites of eggs very stiffly 
with a pinch of salt, add this to the boiled sugar, and use by means of 
a large forcing bag and rose pipe. 

Little Baden-Baden Cakes 
Petits Gateaux a la Baden-Baden 

Take some little fluted bouche cups or tartlet tins, line them about 
one-eighth of an inch thick with puff paste (vol. i.), pressing the same 
well into the shape of the moulds. Prepare a custard mixture by mixing 
in a stewpan three raw yolks of eggs, with two and a half ounces of 
castor sugar, a quarter of an ounce of butter, a few drops of vanilla or 
other flavouring, and four tablespoonfuls of cream or milk ; stir over the 
stove till quite thick, but do not let it boil ; then gently add to it three 
whites of eggs which have been whipped stiff with a pinch of salt, add 
a large tablespoonful of finely-chopped blanched almonds ; put a little of 
this mixture into each of the tins, and bake for fifteen to twenty minutes 
till the custard is a nice brown on the top. Take up, remove the cakes 
from the moulds, stand them on the pastry rack, and when cold mask 
them with Maraschino glace (vol. i. page 42), and sprinkle the top of 
each with a little chopped pistachio; when the icing is cold, dish up the 
little cakes on a fancy paper, and serve. 

Fleur of Apricots 
Fleur aux Abricots 

Prepare a pastry fleur case as in recipe ' Fleur of Apples a la Creme,' 
and when cold fill up the centre with apricots (tinned apricots can be 
used if liked). If fresh apricots are used prepare some syrup (vol. i. 
page 42), put the apricots into it, allow it to come to the boil, and let 
them simmer for about fifteen minutes ; then remove the apricots and 
reduce the syrup in which they were cooked to the consistency of thick 
cream, strain it, and when cool pour-- it over the fruit. Prepare some 



OF EXTRA RECIPES DISHES WITH PASTRIES, ETC. 527 

Royal icing (vol. i.), put it into a forcing bag with a rose pipe, and with 
it ornament the edge of the fleur as shown in the engraving, also 




ornament between the apricots. Dish up the fleur and serve. Any other 
fruit can be used in the same way. 



Fleur of Apples a la Creme 
Fleur de Pommes d la Creme 

Take a plain round fleur ring, lightly butter it, and place it on a 
baking-tin on a buttered paper ; then line it about a quarter of an inch 
thick with paste for tarts (vol. i. page 39), pressing it well to the side of 
the ring ; trim the paste evenly, prick the bottom well with a fork to 
prevent it blistering, line the paste with a buttered paper, and fill up 
with raw rice or any dry grain ; bake it in a moderate oven from thirty 
to forty minutes. Then remove the paper and rice, dust over the inside 
of the fleur with a little castor sugar, and put it again into the oven for 







about fifteen minutes to dry. When cooked take up the fleur, remove 
the ring, and set the paste on one side. When cold fill it up with the 
apple puree (as below), cover this over with the uncoloured whipped 
cream (as below), smooth it over with a cold wet palette-knife, and with 
the rose-coloured cream ornament the top of the fleur in any pretty 
design, using a forcing bag and small rose pipe for the purpose. Form 
a little border round the edge of the fleur with some blanched and 
shredded pistachio nuts, and dish up on a dish-paper as in the illustra- 
tion. Serve for a sweet for dinner, luncheon, or for any cold collation. 



528 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

Puree for Fleur of Apples A la Creme. Take one and a half 
pounds of good cooking apples, peel and slice them, and put them into 
a stewpan with half a pint of water, three ounces of castor sugar, the 
peel of one lemon, two bayleaves, and one ounce of butter ; boil till into 
a pulp, then rub through a fine hair sieve, and use. 

Cream for Fleur of Apples A la Creme. Take half a pint of 
double cream, whip it very stiff, sweeten it with a little castor sugar, 
flavour with a few drops of vanilla essence, and use. To make it rose 
colour, add a few drops of Marshall's Liquid Carmine. 



Fleur of Apples and Almonds a la Vienne 
Fleur de Pommes mix Amandes a la Vienne 

Prepare a pastry fleur case with paste as below and cook it as for 
Fleur of Apples, and when it is baked fill up the inside with the 
puree of apples (vol. i. page 33) to within a quarter of an inch of the 
top, then cover this puree with almond paste (vol. i.), and place the 
fleur again in a moderate oven for about twenty minutes, when the top 
should be a pretty brown colour ; ornament the edges of the fleur by 
means of a bag and small plain pipe with a little Royal icing (vol. i.) 
coloured pink with Marshall's Liquid Carmine, and dish up on a dish- 
paper. Serve for a dinner or luncheon sweet or for any cold collation. 
The above quantities are sufficient for six to eight persons. 

Paste for Fleur of Apples and Almonds A la Vienne. Take four 
ounces of fine flour and rub into it one and a half ounces of butter, one 
and a half ounces of castor sugar, two ounces of finely-chopped blanched 
almonds, and one raw yolk of egg ; stir all together, and then mix with 
orange-flower water into a stiff smooth paste, roll out about a quarter of 
an inch thick, and use. 

Gooseberry Tartlets a la Creme 

Tartelettes de Groseilles Vertes d la Crdme 

Take about a pint of gooseberries, top and tail them, and then put 
them in a nice thick sugar syrup to boil till the skins begin to crack, 
then tip them out in a vessel to cool. Prepare some tartlet paste cases 
as for Tartlets a la Princesse ; dust the cases inside with castor sugar, 
and put them again in the oven for about eight minutes ; take them out, 
and when they are cool partly fill them with the gooseberries. Have 
some thickly- whipped cream that is sweetened, mask the tartlets entirely 
with it, and smooth it over with the palette-knife ; put a little of the 



OF EXTRA RECIPES DISHES WITH PASTRIES, ETC. 529 

same cream into a bag with a little fancy pipe, and garnish the tartlets 
round the edge in the shape of little roses ; sprinkle a little coloured 
sugar over, and serve on a dish-paper. 



Lemon Cheese Cakes 

Gateaux de Fromage au Citron 

Work four ounces of butter in a basin till quite like a cream, then 
mix into it five ounces of castor sugar, and work together for about ten 
minutes ; now add two raw yolks of eggs, the finely-chopped peel of three 
lemons and the juice of the same, one stale penny sponge cake made 
into crumbs, and six or eight finely-chopped sweet almonds ; work these 
into a perfectly smooth paste, and add one tablespoonful of orange-flower 
water, two tablespoon fu Is of brandy or any liqueur or syrup, and the 
whites of two eggs that have been whipped stiff with a pinch of salt ; the 
mixture must not be worked much after the whipped whites are added. 
Prepare a paste as follows : Rub six ounces of butter into a half-pound of 
fine flour till quite smooth ; add one and a half ounce of castor sugar 
and one raw yolk of egg, and mix into a stiff paste with cold water ; 
roll it out about one-eighth of an inch thick, line some little bouche or 
tartlet cups with it, then pour in the above mixture, and bake in a 
moderate oven for twenty-five to thirty minutes ; when the cakes have been 
in the oven for ten minutes dust over the tops with a little icing or fine 
castor sugar to glaze them, When cooked, remove them from the tins 
and garnish round the edges of the custard mixture with little pieces of 
cut candied lemon and citron peel and dried uncrystallised cherries cut 
in diamond shapes ; dish the cakes on a dish- paper or napkin, and serve 
for a sweet for dinner, luncheon, or supper. The above quantity will 
make about sixteen to eighteen cakes. 

Maids of Honour 
Filles d'Howneur 

Line some small patty pans that have rather deep bottoms about a 
quarter of an inch thick with puff paste, trim off the edges and prick 
the bottom well to prevent it blistering ; then fill up with a mixture 
prepared as below, and bake in a moderate oven for about twenty-five 
minutes ; when cooked remove from the tins, dish up on a dish-paper, 
and serve for a sweet for dinner, luncheon, or cold collation. 

Custard for Maids of Honour. Break three fresh eggs in a basin 
and mix them with not quite a quart of new milk ; then whip these 

M M 



530 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

together for two or three minutes, add the strained juice of two lemons, 
and then pour into one quart of boiling water ; let this stand for about 
ten minutes, then remove the curds which have formed, and to them add 
five raw yolks of eggs, half a pint of clotted cream, the finely-chopped peel 
of a lemon, a pinch of grated nutmeg and cinnamon, a large wineglassful 
of brandy, a tablespoonful of orange-flower water, eight drops of vanilla 
essence, two ounces of castor sugar, and six ounces of washed and dried 
currants ; beat these ingredients up with a whisk, and then use as di- 
rected above. 

Marguerite Pastry 
Patisserie d la Marguerite 

Take some puff paste, roll it out about a quarter of an inch thick, 
and cut it out with a heart-shaped cutter which has been made hot by 
being dipped into boiling water; place the pieces on a wetted baking-tin, 
brush each all over with whole beaten-up egg, and then make an incision 
on the top of each with another hot wet heart-shaped cutter, about one 
inch from the edge, making the incision about a quarter of an inch deep ; 
bake in a rather quick oven for twenty-five to thirty minutes, when they 




should be a pretty pale brown colour ; when cooked take up and remove 
the little tops and scoop out the insides, so as to form a little case ; fill 
these with a cream of chestnuts by means of a forcing bag and plain 
pipe ; replace the little tops on the cases, and then glaze the outsides 
with Vanilla and Maraschino glaces (vol. i.), sprinkle the tops with a 
little finely-chopped pistachio, and place on the top of each a crystallised 
violet ; when the glace is set, dish up on a dish on a paper or napkin 
and serve for a sweet for dinner, &c. 

Chestnut Cream for Marguerite Pastry. For ten to twelve per- 
sons prepare half a pound of sound chestnuts that have been weighed 
after being skinned (see recipe { Timbal a la Christina '), then put them 
into a stewpan with half a pint of cream, two and a half gills of 
milk, a tablespoonful of brandy, a few drops of essence of vanilla, two 
tablespoonfuls of orange-flower water, four ounces of castor sugar, and 



OF EXTRA RECIPES DISHES WITH PASTRIES, ETC. 53l 

one ounce of fresh butter. Cover the pan over with the lid, place it 
on the stove, and let the nuts cook till tender, which will take about 
one to one and a half hours ; then rub through a fine wire sieve, and 
mix with a tablespoonful of Maraschino, half a pint of stiffly-whipped 
cream, and a few drops of carmine ; mix into a nice smooth paste, 
then fill up the cases as directed above. 

Mince Pie a la Francaise 

Prepare one pound of puff paste (vol. i.), roll it out about half an 
inch thick, and cut it into two pieces ; place one piece on a wetted 
baking-tin, brush it over with cold water, and place in the centre of it 
about one pound of mincemeat (vol. i. page 339), forming this in a round, 
flat shape ; then place the other piece of paste on the top, press both 
pieces together, put a meat plate on the top face downwards, and with a, 
sharp-pointed knife cut the paste to the size ; remove the plate, brush the 




pie over with raw beaten-up whole egg, and mark round the edge and in 
the centre with a pretty design similar to that shown in the engraving ; 
put the pie into a quick oven for about ten minutes, then take up, dust 
it all over with icing sugar with a dredger, return it to the oven, and 
bake for about thirty-five to forty minutes, when the pie should be a 
pretty, bright golden colour. Dish up on a hot dish on a dish-paper, 
and use for luncheon or dinner. The remains of the paste can be used 
for small mince pies, or any dish where puff paste is needed. 



Pompadours 
Pompadours 

Put into a basin two ounces of fine flour and one ounce of castor 
sugar, and rub into it till smooth half an ounce of good butter; mix with 
this a dessertspoonful of orange-flower water, a saltspoonful of vanilla 
essence, and one raw yolk of egg, and when perfectly smooth roll it 
out quite thinly on a floured slab or board ; cut the paste in oblong 

II M 2 



532 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

pieces the length of the moulds, and broad enough to go round them ; fold 
these pieces round the pompadour tins that have been lightly buttered, 
place these on a sheet of greased foolscap paper on a greased baking-tin, 
and bake in a moderate oven for fifteen to twenty minutes, when they 
should be a pretty fawn colour. Take them up, and when somewhat cool 




detach the cases from the tins and set them aside till cold; then, by means 
of a forcing bag with a plain pipe, fill them with cream, as for meringue 
(vol. i. page 328), stand them on a pastry rack on a dish, and mask them 
in three divisions with Coffee glace (vol. i.), Maraschino glace (vol. i.), 
and red glace, coloured by means of a little liquid carmine; let these set, 
then dish up the pompadours as shown in the engraving on a fancy dish- 
paper, and serve for a sweet for dinner, luncheon, or ball supper. 

Meringue Tartlets 
Tartelettes Meriwjues 

Take some very small bouche or tartlet moulds and line them about 
one-eighth of an inch thick with short paste (vol. i.) ; prick the paste 
at the bottom and trim off the edges, then place a piece of buttered paper 
in each, and fill up the centres with rice or any dry grain ; put them on 
a baking-tin and cook in a moderate oven for fifteen minutes ; then 
remove the grain and the papers, and partly fill the paste cases with the 
preserve (as for Princess Tartlets), and by means of a forcing bag and a 
plain pipe fill them up with a Meringue mixture (vol. i. page 41) ; dust 
over the tops with icing sugar, and put them into a rather cool oven to 
dry. When a pretty fawn colour and quite crisp remove from the oven, 
dish them on a paper or napkin, and serve for dinner, luncheon, or for 
any cold collation. 

Princess Tartlets 
Tartelettes a la Princesse 

Take some tartlet or small bouche tins and thinly line them with short 
paste (vol. i.), place a little buttered paper inside each, fill them with 
rice or any other dry grain, and bake them in a moderate oven for fifteen 
to twenty minutes ; then remove tne papers and grain and partly fill 



OF EXTRA RECIPES DISHES WITH PASTRIES, ETC. 533 

each case with a mixture of preserve (as below), cover this over with 
Meringue mixture (vol. i.), using a forcing bag and pipe for the purpose ; 
dust over the tops with icing sugar, place them on a baking-tin and dry 
them in a moderate oven for about fifteen minutes, let them cool, glaze 
them over with Coffee glace (vol. i.), and serve when cold on a dish- 
paper for dinner or luncheon. 

Preserve for Princess Tartlets. Take two tablespoonfuls of 
apricot jam, and mix it with a quarter-pound of any dried fruits cut 
into dice shapes, flavour with four or five drops of pineapple or vanilla 
essence, mix well together, and use. 

Tagliarini a la Florence 
Tagliarini d la Florence 

Take five ounces of fine flour, a pinch of salt, one ounce of butter 
rubbed together till smooth, a dust of Marshall's Coralline Pepper, the 
strained juice of one lemon, two raw whole eggs ; mix together into a 
smooth stiff paste with enough white wine to moisten, then roll out 
wafer thin on a well-floured slab, and frequently turn the paste over 
during the rolling ; then cut up into three-inch square pieces, put it 
into a stewpan containing boiling water seasoned with a little salt, 
simmer for half an hour, then drain and place on a dish on a layer of 
cooked sliced tomatoes as used for garnishing, and on the tomatoes 
sprinkle a little grated Parmesan cheese ; then place a layer of the 
Tagliai'ini, repeat the layers till the dish is nearly full, and, lastly, the 
tomatoes; then cover with Cheese Cream sauce (see recipe), and stand 
the dish in a tin containing boiling water and cook in a quick oven for 
about fifteen minutes ; then place on a dish on a paper or napkin, and 
serve in a boiling state for luncheon or second course, or as a meagre 
dish. 

Vol -au- Vent with Fruits 
YoUaw-Vent mix Fruits 

Prepare a vol-au-vent case of puff paste as for ' Vol-au- Vent a la 
Prince George,' place it on a baking-tin in the oven to dry, then place 
it on the dish on which it is to be served. Take some cooked fruits, 
such as cherries, grapes, or any nice dried fruits ; dip each piece into 
sugar boiled to the crack, and stick them all over the outside of the 
vol-au-vent ; fill up the centre with a macedoine of fruits (see recipes), 
garnish the outside with spun sugar, and, if liked, the syrup in which 
the fruits were cooked can be served round the dish. This dish can be 
served either hot or cold. 



534 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

Veal Pie a la Savoyarcle 
Pate de Veau a la Savoyarcle 

Take two and a half to three pounds of lean veal (the fillet for 
preference) and cut it into neat thin slices about two inches in diameter, 
bat these out with a cold wet chopping-knife, season them with coralline 
pepper and salt, and sprinkle with finely-chopped raw parsley, bayleaf, 
thyme, and washed and dried fresh chopped mushroom and eschalot ; 
place on top of each piece of veal a thinly-cut piece of fat and lean raw 
bacon of the same size as the veal, and on the bacon put a raw bearded 
oyster ; then roll up the fillets into cylinder shapes, and arrange them in 
a pie dish so that they form a conical shape in the centre. Sprinkle over 
a little flour, pour into it the strained liquor from the oysters and some nice 





light stock, and when the dish is full wet the edge of the dish and place a 
layer of puff paste (vol. i.) about one inch thick and the same width as 
the rim round it ; then wet this paste and cover over the top of the pie 
with a layer of puff paste about half an inch thick ; press the edges well 
together, trim them, and scallop them with a knife, and brush the top over 
with whole raw beaten-up egg ; mark it with a small pointed knife, as in 
engraving, place the pie on a baking-tin, and bake in a moderate oven 
for about two hours ; then take up and serve on a hot dish on a napkin or 
dish-paper, for luncheon, breakfast, or for a remove for dinner. The 
pie may also be served cold. 

Pork Pie 
Pate de Pore 

Free some fresh pork from bone and skin, then pass it through a 
sausage machine ; season it with salt and pepper, and mix with each 
pound a quarter-pint of light gravy or water, and, if liked, a tablespoonful 
of finely-chopped sage that has been rubbed through a fine wire sieve. 
Butter a square fleur mould, and line it with short paste (vol. i.) about 
a quarter-inch thick ; press this well to the side of the mould, prick the 
bottom with a fork, then fill in with the prepared meat. Cover over the 



OF EXTRA RECIPES DISHES WITH PASTRIES, ETC. 535 

top with some of the same paste, making a small hole in the centre ; wet 
the edges with cold water, and press them well together. Ornament the 
top in any pretty design with paste of the thickness of a wafer, place 
round the outside of the mould a well-greased paper, and put in a mode- 
rate oven to bake for one and a half to two hours. When cold, fill 
up the pie with light clarified stock made from pork bones or from veal 
or rabbit boilings ; remove the mould and paper, arrange the pie on a 
dish on a dish-paper, and garnish with little blocks of aspic jelly or little 
sprigs of fresh parsley (see engraving of Pheasant Pie & hi Francaise). 

Raised Fisli Pie a lTniperiale 

1'iifr dc Poi880n d V ' iiiljirr'mlr 

Prepare a paste (see Raised Pie Paste, vol. i. page 39), roll it out rather 
better than a quarter of an inch thick, and with it line a buttered French 
raised-pie mould ; press the paste well to the inside of the mould to 
take the impression well, line the inside of the paste with a fish farce 
(vol. i.) about half an inch thick, wetting the hands with cold water 
whilst arranging it; place small fillets of raw salmon or mullet or trout, 
sole, &c, round on the farce, and set them with another thin lining of 
the farce. Arrange in the centre of the pie some raw sliced salmon, 




cooked lobster, raw bearded oysters, truffle, mushrooms, picked cooked 
shrimps, or some prepared crayfish bodies (in bottle), and some little 
pieces of fillets of soles, or any other nice white fish ; place a layer of 
the fish farce on the top, cover over with the paste, ornament the paste 
in any pretty design, leave a little opening in the top, surround it with 
a high buttered paper, and cook the pie in a moderate oven for two and 
a half to three hours, or longer if the pie is very large. When cooked, 
set it aside till cold, remove the paper and tin, and through the hole in 



536 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

the paste fill up the pie with some good clarified fish stock (as below), 
using a funnel ; leave till set, dish the pie on a dish-paper, garnish it 
with aspic jelly, cut in any pretty design or chopped finely, and serve 
with Mayonnaise, Suedoise, or Tartare sauce (vol. i.) handed in a sauce- 
boat. This pie is* excellent either for ball suppers, luncheons, hunt 
breakfasts, &c. 

The quantities sufficient for a No. 2 size mould will be one and a half 
pound of whiting, haddock, or cod, one pound of salmon to be cut in 
thin slices, a small lobster, six large or twelve small oysters, a quarter- 
pint of picked shrimps or one small bottle of crayfish bodies, four sliced 
truffles, and eight large sliced cooked button mushrooms. 

Clarified Stock for Raised Fish Pie A l'Imferiale. Take 
the bones from the white fish, and the beards and liquor from the 
oysters, as well as the inside from the head of the lobster, and put all 
together into a stewpan with two sliced onions, a bunch of herbs, six 
peppercorns, two cloves, a pinch of salt, two wineglassfuls of white 
wine, and one ounce of glaze ; cover with a little light stock or water, 
and boil for about one hour, then strain it, and add for each quart one 
ounce of Marshall's Finest Gelatine ; clear with four raw whites and 
shells of eggs beaten up together ; let it boil up and then strain it 
through a cloth; when it begins to set use as above. 



Fish Pudding 
Ponding de Poisso/i 

Line a well-buttered pudding basin with suet paste (vol. i. page 39), 
fill up the inside with any nice pieces of cold cooked fish, slices of 
hard-boiled eggs that are seasoned with chopped raw parsle}^, eschalots, 
mignonette pepper, and salt, and washed and finely-chopped fresh 
mushrooms ; fill up the basin with the sauce prepared as below, wet the 
edges of the paste with cold water, and cover over the top with some 
more of the paste ; trim the edges evenly, tie up the basin in a cloth, 
and cook the pudding in a saucepan of boiling water for about three 
hours ; then take up, remove the cloth, turn out the pudding on to a hot 
dish, sprinkle over with a little raw parsley and lobster coral, and serve 
while quite hot for luncheon. 

Sauce for Fish Pudding. Put one and a half ounces of butter into 
a stewpan with one and a half ounces of fine flour, stir together till well 
mixed, then add half a pint of water, the juice of a lemon, half a gill 
of cream ; stir till it boils, tammy ,^nd use. 



OF EXTRA RECIPES DISHES WITH PASTRIES, ETC. 537 

Pheasant Pie a la Francaise 
Pcite <Ie Faisan a la Thrangaise 

Take a square fleur mould, butter it inside, and place it on a bakiug- 
tiu on a double fold of foolscap paper that is buttered ; then line the 
mould about a quarter of an inch thick with short paste (vol. i.), pressing 
the paste well into the shape of the tin ; take a picked, singed, cleansed 
and boned pheasant, cut it up in neat joints, lay these open and 
season them with a little mignonette pepper, a very little salt, and 
washed and chopped fresh mushroom, a little eschalot, thyme, bay leaf, 
parsley, and the livers of the pheasants finely chopped ; place a little 
piece ofpdM defou' grew about the size of a Spanish nut in each piece of 
pheasant, and then roll up the pieces in cylinder shapes, and place these 
pieces one on the other in the pie until it is full. Wet the edge of the 
paste and roll out some more paste about half the thickness of that used 
for the lining of the mould, cover the pie over, and trim the edges; roll 




out the remainder of the paste perfectly thin like a wafer, and stamp it 
out in rounds about one and a half inches in diameter, and by means of 
a knife work out the rounds of paste in the form of small shells. Wet the 
top of the pie paste over with a little cold water, using a paste brush for 
the purpose, and then place the little shells on the top until it is quite 
covered ; make a little hole in the centre of the top so as to be able to 
fill the pie up with gravy when cold ; place a band of buttered paper 
round, so as to stand about three inches above the pie, and put it into a 
moderate oven, and bake for one and a half to two hours ; during the 
baking keep the top of the pie covered over with a wetted paper to pre- 
vent the paste getting browned, as it should be a pretty fawn colour when 
cooked. Put it away till cold, then fill up with gravy made from the 
bones as below, and then remove the tin from it ; place the pie on a dish 
on a dish-paper, and garnish it round with nice blocks of cut Aspic Jelly 



538 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY ROOK 

(vol. i.), and serve for any cold collation, such as for supper, luncheon, 
race meetings, &c. 

Gravy for filling up Pheasant Pie. Take the bones of the birds, 
chop them up finely, and put them in a stewpan with an ounce of butter, 
a sliced onion, two bayleaves, a sprig of thyme and parsley, a sprig 
of marjoram, and a pinch of mignonette pepper ; put the cover on the 
pan, and fry the contents for about fifteen minutes, giving the pan 
an occasional shake while frying ; then add about one quart of good 
stock, and let it simmer gently on the side of the stove for about three- 
quarters of an hour ; strain and remove the fat, and dissolve in the 
liquor a quarter of an ounce of Marshall's Leaf Gelatine, and use when 
cooling and when about the consistency of cream. 

Italian Pie 
Pate a TItalienne 

Take two and a half to three pounds of lean fillet of veal, cut it into 
thin slices, bat them out with a cold wet chopping-knife and cut them 
into squares about two inches in diameter ; season one side with pepper, 
salt, chopped fresh mushroom, bayleaf, thyme, parsley, eschalot, and a 
little sage ; roll each into cylinder shapes, and arrange in the bottom of 
a pie-dish closely together. Place on the meat some very finely cut slices 
of ham or bacon also cut in small squares, place on the bacon a layer 
of herb farce balls (vol. i. page 36) made about the size of a yolk of egg, 
alternating these with hard-boiled yolks of eggs ; arrange on this another 
layer of the fillets, then another of the bacon and farce balls and yolks, 
and continue this till the dish is nearly full, then fill up with good warm 
white stock, made from veal, rabbit, or chicken, and leave till the gravy 
is set and firm ; cover the top over with a good puff paste (vol. i.), 
ornament it with any prettily-cut pieces of the same paste. Bake for 
two to two and a half hours in a moderately hot oven, when the paste 
should be a pretty golden colour ; make a hole in the top of the paste, 
and by means of a funnel pour in some of the above-mentioned white 
stock, and serve hot or cold for hunt or ordinary breakfasts, luncheon, 
or ball supper, or for shooting parties. 

Little Pies a la Dejeuner 
Petits Pates d la Dejeuner 

Take some pieces of puff paste (vol. i.) about four inches square ; 
wet the top sides of the paste with cold water, and place in the centre of 



OF EXTRA RECIPES DISHES WITH PASTRIES, ETC. 539 

each some of the prepared puree as below ; close the paste over, brush over 
with the whole of a raw egg beaten up, place them on a cold wet baking- 
tin, and bake them in a quick oven for about twenty minutes, when 
they should be a pretty golden colour. Dish them up on a dish-paper, 
garnish with a litble raw green parsley, and serve for luncheons or ball 
suppers. 

PuEfiE for Pies a la Dejeuner. Take half a pound of cold 
cooked white meat, such as chicken, rabbit, or pheasant, half a pound of 
cooked ham or tongue, three hard-boiled yolks of egg, two large table- 
spoonfuls of thick Bechamel sauce (vol. i.), and two ounces of fresh 
butter ; season with a little salt and white pepper, pound together, and 
rub through a wire sieve ; mix well with a teaspoonful of chopped raw 
green parsley and one finely-chopped eschalot, and use. 



Little Patties a la Montrose 
Petite r<ifrs ' la Montrose 

Lightly butter some little barrel moulds, and line them with short 
paste (vol. i.), fill them with a ragout prepared as below and close the 
tops in with a little round of the same paste, leaving a small hole in the 
centre ; put the moulds into a moderate oven and bake till a pale golden 
colour ; then remove and leave in the moulds till cold. Have some well- 



flavoured cool clarified gravy and fill up each barrel with it, using a 
small funnel for the purpose, and if served cold, garnish the top of each 
with chopped aspic jelly. Dish on a paper or napkin, and serve for 
luncheon, ball supper, races, shooting parties, &c. They can be served 
as a hot dish if liked, and may also be filled with any kind of cold game 
or poultry or mutton. 

Ragout for Patties A la Montrose. Take some cold game or 
poultry, or roast mutton, beef, or lamb, and cut it into dice shapes, mix 
with it a very little good stock to moisten it, and a little cooked button 
mushrooms, truffle, ham, or foie gras may be added. 

Gravy for Patties a la Montrose. Take one ounce of glaze, mix 
it with half a pint of aspic jelly or consomme that is in a stiff jelly, 



540 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

boil up with a finely-chopped eschalot, one fresh mushroom chopped, a 
teaspoonful of chopped parsley, then use when cooling. This may be 
flavoured with a wineglassful of sherry if liked. 



Potato and Onion Pie 

Pcite de Pommes de Terre et Oignons 

Take some peeled and finely-sliced onions and potatoes, allowing 
half a pound of onions to one pound of raw potatoes ; fry the onions in 
butter or dripping till a pale golden colour, and season them with pepper 
and salt. Take three ounces of finely-chopped beef suet, three ounces 
of chopped lean ham or bacon, the same of finely-chopped cooked chicken, 
and mix with this a dessertspoonful of finely-chopped raw parsley. Have 
a pie dish slightly greased, arrange the potatoes and onions alternately 
in this, sprinkle over each layer a little of the chopped meat, &c, and 
continue these layers till they form quite a pile ; fill up the dish with 
good light gravy or stock ; wet the edges of the dish with cold water, and 
put a strip of puff paste (vol. i.) the size of the rim round the edges. 
Wet the upper side of this, then cover the whole of the pie with puff 
paste about half an inch thick ; press this well to the band of the paste, 
trim the edges evenly, brush over with whole raw beaten-up egg, mark 
in any pretty design with a small knife, scallop the edges, stand the pie 
in a baking-tin, pour water in this to about an inch in depth, and bake 
the pie in a moderate oven for one and a half to two hours ; then take 
up and serve hot on a paper or napkin as a remove. 

Twice Laid 

Take a well-buttered pie dish, sprinkle it all over with some finely- 
chopped eschalot, cooked lean ham, parsley, thyme, and bayleaf. Take 
some cold cooked fish, such as cod, salmon, &c, pull it into pieces, and for 
one and a half pounds of fish take six hard-boiled eggs and twelve 
filleted anchovies cut up in tiny squares. Take a pint and a half of 
thick Soubise sauce (vol. i.), pour a layer of it on the bottom of the dish, 
sprinkle over the sauce some grated Parmesan cheese, and on this arrange 
a layer of the fish and egg, then another of the sauce, and so on until 
the dish is almost full ; sprinkle over the top seasoning in the same 
manner as the dish was seasoned, cover over the top with a crust of 
potatoes (see recipe, ' Poisson a la Creme '), brush over with whole beaten- 
up raw egg, garnish with little fancy shapes of puff paste (vol. i.), place 
it on a baking-tin, and cook in a qui&k oven for forty to sixty minutes, 



OF EXTEA EECIPES DISHES WITH PASTRIES, ETC. 541 

when it should be a nice golden colour. Serve on a dish on a paper or 
napkin in a perfectly boiling state for dinner or luncheon. Any remains 
of cold fish, poultry, or meat can be utilised in the same way. 



Little Cases a la Breteuil 
Fetites Caisses d I" Breteuil 

Prepare, for six to eight persons, a quarter of a pound of puff paste, 
and cut it in lengths about two and a half inches by one and a half 
inches wide and a quarter of an inch thick ; place these pieces on a 
wetted baking-tin, brush them over with whole beaten-up raw egg, and 
mark the top of each strip with a pointed knife about half-way through 
the paste, making a border about a quarter of an inch from the sides all 
round ; this will allow the oblong inner piece to be removed when cooked ;. 
put into a moderate oven and bake for fifteen to twenty minutes, then 
remove the inner portions and fill up the cases thus formed with a 
ragout prepared as below. Slightly season some stiffly-whipped cream 
with salt and a dust of coralline pepper, put it into a forcing bag with a 
rose pipe, and arrange a little of the mixture on the top of each case in 
the form of a leaf; sprinkle with a little lobster coral and hard-boiled 
yolk of egg, dish on a hot dish on a dish-paper or napkin, and serve 
for a luncheon or second-course dish or for a cold collation. 

Eagout for Little Cases a la Breteuil. Put into a stewpan four 
large tablespoonfuls of thick cream, one ounce of fresh butter, three 
raw yolks of eggs, a pinch of salt, a dust of coralline pepper, and a salt- 
spoonful of French and the same of English mustard mixed with a 
dessertspoonful of strained lemon juice ; stand the stewpan in the bain- 
marie and stir the contents until they thicken, then add the hard-boiled 
yolks of four eggs that have been rubbed through a wire sieve, the half 
of a cooked lobster that has been chopped fine, and two boned anchovies 
that have been rubbed through a sieve ; let these ingredients get hot,, 
put them into a forcing bag with a plain pipe and fill up the cases. 

Gnoccrii a la Francaise 

Gnocci d la Francaise 

Put into a stewpan half a pint of water, four ounces of butter, a 
good pinch of salt and coralline pepper, a tiny dust of ground mace or 
cinnamon, two very finely-chopped eschalots ; bring to the boil, then 
add five ounces of fine flour, and stir quickly into a paste ; then mix 
into it two large well-beaten-up raw eggs, one ounce of warm glaze, two 



542 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

ounces of grated Parmesan cheese. When well stirred and quite smooth 
put the mixture into a forcing bag with a large plain pipe and force 
out, cutting with a knife into lengths of about one inch, and allowing 
them to drop from the knife into a stewpan containing boiling water 
seasoned with salt ; bring the contents of the pan to the boil, then draw 
aside and poach for about fifteen minutes, and drain on a hair sieve. 
Take an entree dish, butter it, and place a layer of Cheese Bechamel 
(see recipe) on the bottom of it, then place a layer of the Gnocchi, 
repeating the layers till the dish is full to within half an inch of the 
top, lastly putting some sauce ; then cover with Cheese Cream sauce 
(see recipe), and stand the tin containing the Gnocchi in a tin with 
boiling water ; put into a hot oven for fifteen to twenty minutes, and when 
a good brown colour sprinkle over it some French capers, and serve on 
a dish on a paper or napkin for luncheon or second course while quite 
boiling. 

Cheese Bechamel for Gnocchi A la Franqaise. Take one pint of 
thick Bechamel sauce (vol. i), a quarter of a pint of cream, and a quarter 
of a pound of grated Parmesan cheese ; mix and use. 



Gnocchi h l'ltalienne 
Gnocci a Vltalienne 

Take two pounds of hot freshly-boiled potatoes, rub them through a 
wire sieve, mix with three ounces of warm butter, a pinch of salt and 
coralline pepper, one and a half ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, 
four raw yolks of eggs, two ounces of finely-chopped lean cooked ham, 
a dessertspoonful of finely-chopped raw green parsley, and two large 
finely-chopped eschalots ; stir into a smooth paste, divide into portions 
of about a dessertspoonful each, form into little cylinder shapes, using 
a little flour for the purpose, brush them over with whole beaten-up raw 
egg, and cook them on a buttered baking-tin in a quick oven till a 
pretty golden colour. Then take up, arrange them on a well-buttered 
deep dish, pour over them a layer of sauce prepared as below, place on 
the sauce another layer of the Gnocchi, then one of the sauce, and so on 
until the dish is full, arranging it so that a layer of sauce is uppermost ; 
sprinkle over the top some grated Parmesan cheese, put the dish in 
another containing boiling water, and put in the oven for about twenty 
minutes ; then take up and ornament the edge of the dish round with 
little rings of bread that have been fried a nice golden colour, then 
brushed over with a little warm glaz^'and dipped alternately into finely- 



OF EXTRA RECIPES DISHES WITH PASTRIES, ETC. 543 

chopped lean cooked ham and raw green parsley ; serve this dish on 
another dish on a paper or napkin for a luncheon or second-course dish. 
Sauce for GrNOCCHl a l'Italienne. Bring a pint of milk to the 
boil with two finely-chopped eschalots and a little salt and coralline 
pepper, and pour it on to a quarter-pound of fine flour and a quarter- 
pound of butter that have been fried together without browning ; stir 
over the fire till it boils, add one ounce of grated Gruyere and two ounces 
of Parmesan cheese, a quarter-pint of cream, a teaspoonful of French 
mustard and the same of English mustard ; reboil, and mix into it two 
raw yolks of eggs that have been mixed with the pulp of two large raw 
ripe tomatoes, stir again till thickened, and use. 



Macaroni a la Casino 
Macaroni d I" < ] asino 

Take a quarter-pound of Naples macaroni, put it into boiling water 
seasoned with a little salt, boil gently for twenty-five to thirty minutes, 
then strain and cut it up into lengths of about one inch, and put these 
into some sauce prepared as below ; make quite hot in the bain-marie, 
then turn it into an entree dish, and pour entirely over it some Cheese 
Cream sauce (see recipe) ; then brown it at once with a red-hot sala- 




mander, garnish the top of the dish with prettily-cut croutons (that have 
been fried a pale golden colour, then brushed over with a little raw 
white of egg and garnished with finely-chopped raw green parsley) and 
some cooked crayfish bodies (in bottle) that have been warmed in the 
bain-marie. Serve at once for a second-course or for a luncheon dish 
while in a boiling state. 

Sauce for Macaroni a la Casino. Put into a stewpan one and 
a half pints of new milk and two very finely-chopped eschalots, and 
boil for about ten minutes. Then stir it on to three ounces of butter 
and the same quantity of fine flour that have been fried together with- 
out browning ; stir till boiling, then mix with it one ounce of pounded 
lobster spawn, the puree of four Christiania anchovies, the pulp of two 



544 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

raw ripe tomatoes, one gill of cream, one ounce of grated Parmesan 
cheese, the juice of one large lemon, a pinch of salt, and a good dust 
of Marshall's Coralline Pepper ; reboil, wring through the tammy, and 
use. 



Macaroni a la Milanaise 
Macaroni <"/ la Milanaise 

Put half a pound of Naples macaroni to cook (vol. i. page 31), 
and cut it into lengths of about one and a half inches ; mix with it 
a pint of creamy Bechamel sauce (vol. i.), two ounces of fresh butter, 
five or six cooked button mushrooms cut up, about two ounces of cooked 
tongue or ham, and two or three truffles ; keep this hot in the bain-marie, 
then add a quarter of a pound of grated Parmesan cheese, two ounces 
of grated Gruyere cheese, and reboil. Dish up in a pile on a hot dish, 
and serve with a little good clear gravy round it for a second-course or 
luncheon dish, or with braised poulardes, pheasants, beef, &c. 



Macaroni "with Tomato Butter 
Macaroni an Beurre de Tomates 

Take some boiled Naples macaroni (vol. i. page 31) a quarter-pound 
will make a good dish drain it in the cullender or on a sieve, then cut 
it up into lengths of about one inch, and then mix with a good pat of 
butter, a pinch of salt and coralline pepper, and one ounce of grated 
Parmesan cheese, and turn out on a hot entree or flat dish ; pour some 
hot Tomato butter (vol. i. page 25) over, and serve for luncheon or as a 
second-course dish, or in the place of a vegetable. 



Risot a la Napolitaine 
Risotto a la Najpolitaine 

Take one pound of the prepared red Pilau rice (see recipe), turn it 
while boiling hot out on to an entree or flat dish. Have a dozen raw 
bearded sauce oysters, one bottle of the prepared crayfish bodies, two or 
three sliced truffles and button mushrooms, just tossed up in a stewpan 
in one ounce of good butter made hot, but not allowing them to boil, tip 
these on the top of the rice, and pour round the dish some Cheese Cream 
sauce (see recipe). Serve at once for luncheon or dinner while quite hot.. 



OF EXTRA EECIPES DISHES WITH PASTRIES, ETC. 545 

Risot a la Piemontaise 
Risotto d la Piemontaise 

Take two large onions and peel and cut them up in tiny dice shapes, 
put them in a stewpan with two ounces of good butter, and fry them 
without discolouring for about fifteen minutes ; then add half a pound 
of Patna rice that has been blanched and well washed, and one and a 
half pints of good-flavoured light stock from veal, rabbit, or chicken ; 
watch the stock come to the boil, then cover the rice over with a well- 
buttered paper, and let it simmer gently on the side of the stove for 
about thirty minutes, when the grains of rice should be quite separate ; 
remove the buttered paper, and pour over the contents of the stewpan a 
quarter of a pound of fresh butter that has been melted, and two ounces 
of grated Parmesan cheese ; mix together, then turn out on to a hot dish 
and serve with some good clear gravy in a sauceboat. This can be served 
for dinner as a second-course dish or as a luncheon dish. 

Raviolis with. Spinach, a la Grecqne 
Raviolis anx Epinards <l la QrBcque 

Take a half-pound of Spinach puree (vol. i. page 262) and a quarter- 
pound of Raviolis paste (vol. i. page 221), roll the latter out in the 
usual way, and place on some of the pieces about a saltspoonful of the 
spinach puree ; wet a similar piece of the paste with cold water, and 
then close it over the pieces with the spinach ; press well together, and 
then put into boiling water seasoned with a little salt, and simmer on 
the side of the stove for about forty minutes ; then strain and arrange 
on a hot dish, pour over them some Cheese Cream sauce (see recipe), 
and then brown at once with the salamander ; sprinkle over with a little 
finely-chopped raw green parsley, and serve at once for a second-course 
or luncheon dish, using while in a boiling state. This forms an ex- 
cellent meagre dish. 

Sparghetti a la Russe 

Sparghetti a la Russe 

Take a quarter-pound of boiled Sparghetti (see recipe), cut up in 
lengths of about one inch, mix it with four raw or tinned tomatoes 
that are chopped up small if the tinned ones are used the liquor must 
be drained before using add two ounces of butter mixed with one 
ounce of fine flour till smooth, a dust of coralline pepper, a pinch of 

N N 



546 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

salt, and a saltspoonful of French mustard; boil together for about 
fifteen minutes, then add two ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, reboil, 
then turn out on a hot dish and sprinkle over it a little chopped cooked 
lobster or prawns or shrimps ; serve while quite boiling for luncheon or 
second course, or as a meagre dish. 

Pilau a la Grecque 
Pilau a la Grecque 

Take half a pound of Patna rice, blanch it and wash well in cold 
water, put it back in the stewpan with two ounces of warm butter and 
one and a half pints of light stock, put a bunch of herbs on the top, 
cover with a buttered paper and simmer gently till tender, which will 
take about an hour, adding a little more stock if needed. Then turn 




out some of the rice to form a border ; put the ragout in the centre, 
then pour round the edge of the dish a puree of tomatoes (vol. i.), and 
sprinkle over a little saffron shreds and raw chopped parsley, and some 
thinly-cut slices of raw lemon all round as a border. Serve for luncheon 
or dinner. 

Ragout for Pilau a la Grecque. Take some cold game or poultry, 
cut in neat dice-shapes, and season with salt and one and a half ounces 
of grated Parmesan cheese and a dust of Marshall's Coralline Pepper, 
and mix together. Take four onions, peel and cut them into tiny dice 
shapes, two ounces butter, two ounces lean raw bacon cut in dice shapes, 
fry together till a nice golden colour ; mix with one ounce of fine flour, 
add three-quarters of a pint of good-flavoured stock, and simmer till 
tender ; add the cut chicken, &c, boil up, and use. 

Veal Pilau a la Bombay 
Pilau de Veau a la Bombay 

Take a clean stewpan and put about a quarter-pound of butter in it ; 
put one pound of Patna rice into another stewpan, with enough cold 
water to cover it, with a pinch of salt, let it come to the boil, then strain 



OF EXTKA EECIPES DISHES WITH PASTRIES, ETC. 547 

and wash it and put it into the stewpan with the butter and two finely- 
chopped eschalots, a bunch of herbs (thyme, parsley, and bayleaf), and 
two blades of mace. Have two pounds of breast or neck of veal cut up 
in little neat square pieces, season it with salt and ground ginger and 
coralline pepper, put it on a greased tin and bake it for about half an 
hour in a rather quick oven, keeping it well basted ; when a nice golden 
colour put it all into the pan, also half a pound of salt streaky pork or 
bacon which is cut up in little dice shapes ; add two and a half pints of 
good-flavoured stock, then let it cook on gently for one and a half hours, 
taking care that the meat and rice do not stick to the bottom of the pan, 




add about half a pint more stock if needed during the cooking, and, 
when ready to serve, dish the meat up in the centre and the rice round. 
Have six or eight Seville oranges peeled and quite free from pith, cut 
the peel in long thin shreds, put it in cold water with a pinch of salt, 
let it come to the boil, then strain and use ; cut out the pieces of fruit in 
natural divisions, garnish the edge of the dish here and there with the 
orange, and peel, and tarragon, and blanched, shredded lettuce that has 
been boiled in slightly salted water till tender. Serve while quite hot. 
This can be served as a remove or for a luncheon dish, and game or 
poultry can be used instead of veal, in which case the bird should be 
boned and then cut up into little square pieces. 

Little Pastry Straws a la Verdun 
Petites Failles de Patisserie a la Verdtm 

Take a quarter of a pound of puff paste (vol. i.) and roll it out about one- 
eighth of an inch thick, cut it in strips about one and a half inches wide 
and three inches long, and place them on a wetted baking-tin, then 
brush over one side of these strips with cold water. Arrange a little roll 
of puree prepared as below on half the number, leaving about a quarter of 
an inch of paste all round ; then take the remaining pieces of the plain 
paste and place them over the pieces with the puree ; close these 
together and brush all over with a little whole beaten-up raw egg ; 

N N 2 



548 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

mark the top of the paste in any pretty design with a knife ; then put 
them in a quick oven and bake till a pretty brown colour, which will 
take twenty-five to thirty minutes. When cooked, dish up on a hot 
dish on a dish-paper, and serve for a hot savoury. These may also be 
served when cold for a ball supper, &c. 

Puree for Little Pastry Straws a la Verdun. For fourteen to 
sixteen persons, take six well-boned Christiania anchovies and three of 
Kriiger's marinaded fillets of herrings ; pound them with three hard-boiled 
yolks of eggs ; then rub them through a fine wire sieve, and put the pre- 
pared puree into a basin, mixing with it one and a half ounces of freshly- 
made white breadcrumbs, one and a half ounces of fresh butter, and a 
teaspoonful of finely-chopped parsley ; when well mixed up together, use 
as directed above. This puree is also very nice for serving on toast or 
little croutons of bread. 

Pompadours a la Stanley 
Pompadours a la Stanley 

Line the outsides of some pompadour tins with puff paste (vol. i.), that 
is rolled out about an eighth of an inch thick, then stamp out with a round 
cutter, press the edges well together, and stick with a little cold water ; 
brush the tops over with a little whole beaten-up raw egg, place them 
at a good distance from each other on a wet baking- tin, and bake in 
a moderate oven till a nice golden colour. When cooked, take up and 




let them cool a little, slip out the tins and put the cases on a pastry 
rack till cold, then fill them with the ragout prepared as below, using 
a forcing bag with a large plain pipe for the purpose ; when this is set, 
mask them alternately with brown- and salmon-coloured Chaudfroid 
(vol. i.), pour over each a little cool aspic jelly ; dish up on a dish- 
paper, garnish with raw green parsley, and serve for a second-course or 
luncheon dish, or for any cold collation. 

Ragout for Pompadours A la Stanley. Put into a stewpan two 
peeled and finely-sliced onions and fry them with an ounce of butter 
till a good brown colour, add one ounce of glaze, the same of Marshall's 



OF EXTRA RECIPES DISHES WITH PASTRIES, ETC. 549 

Curry Powder, and the same of chutney, half a pint of good gravy, and 
the liquor and beards of twelve sauce oysters ; boil altogether till 
tender, then mix in four or five sheets of Marshall's gelatine, and when 
this is dissolved add six boned and pounded Christiania anchovies ; then 
rub through a tammy or fine Avire sieve. Add to this puree twelve raw 
bearded sauce oysters that are cut in little dice shapes, half a pint of 
stiffly-whipped cream, and a dust of Marshall's Coralline Pepper ; when 
beginning to set put into a forcing bag with a large plain pipe, and use. 

Marinaded Herrings a la Victor 
Ha/renga Marines <i la Victor 

Take some little boat-shaped tins, line them thinly with puff paste 
(vol. i.) about the eighth of an inch thick, and trim the edges evenly, 
place a piece of buttered kitchen paper in each, and fill it up with raw 
rice ; bake in a moderate oven for about fifteen minutes till a nice 
golden colour, and quite crisp; when cooked remove the rice and papers 
and set the cases aside till cold. Take some of Kriiger's marinaded 
fillets of herrings, cut each into two pieces, place them on a plate with 
the under side upwards, season them with finely-chopped eschalot, salad 
oil, coralline pepper, and then roll up into small cylinder shapes, 
the skin sides outwards ; partly fill up each case with hard-boiled yolk 
of egg that has been rubbed through a wire sieve, and on this place a 
roll of the herring and a prepared crayfish (in bottle) or shelled prawn 
that has been cut open into two portions ; season these similarly to the 
herring, and place two of the pieces of prawn in each case, one on either 
side of the herring, also a little fresh sprig of raw green chervil and two 
farced olives (these are kept prepared in bottle). Arrange a few little 
beads of crayfish or anchovy butter (vol. i.) at each end, using a forcing 
bag and rose pipe for the purpose, and serve one to each person on 
a dish-paper, for savoury, hors-d'oeuvre, or ball-supper dish. 

Little Cheese Patties 
Petits Pates au Fromage 

Take some puff paste (vol. i.) that has had six turns, roll it out 
about one inch thick, and stamp out rounds of it with a hot wet cutter 
about one and a half inch in diameter ; put these rounds on a wetted 
baking-tin, brush them all over with whole beaten-up raw egg ; then 
make an inner ring on the top of each with a hot wet cutter about one 
inch in diameter, cutting into the paste about a quarter of an inch deep. 



550 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

Bake in a quick oven for twenty-five to thirty minutes ; when baked 
take up, remove the little top, and scoop out the inside so as to form a 
case, fill them with Cheese Cream sauce (see recipe), sprinkle with a 
little chopped raw parsley and coralline pepper. Dish up on a dish-paper 
on a hot dish, and serve for a savoury or for a luncheon dish. 



Cheese Pastry a la Strohl 
Fromage Patisserie a la Strohl 

Take six ounces of fine flour, three and a half ounces of fresh butter, 
a good dust of Marshall's Coralline Pepper, a pinch of salt ; rub well 
together, then add a quarter of an ounce of Cowan's Baking Powder, and 
four ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, three small or two large whole 
eggs ; mix with a little cream into a paste, roll out about half an inch 
thick, cut into four-inch lengths about one inch wide place on a 
wetted baking-tin, then brush over with raw whole egg, and dust over 
with a few very pale coloured browned breadcrumbs, prick the paste 
well with a sharp-pointed knife, sprinkle on the crumbs a few coarse 
grains of salt, and bake in a moderate oven for thirty-five to forty 
minutes, when the strips should be quite crisp and a nice brown colour. 
Serve with freshly-grated Gruyere or Cheddar cheese for luncheon, 
ball supper, &c, on a paper or napkin. These are also nice to eat with 
soup, either purees or clear, and can be used hot or cold. 



Little Patties of Cheese a la Torento 
Petites Bouchees de Fromage a la Torento 

Make some puff paste patty cases as for Patties a la Montglas (vol. i. 
page 155), and leave till cold; then fill up the insides with stamped-out 
rounds of cheese mixture, as in recipe ' Little Creams a la Torento,' sprinkle 




over with a little grated Parmesan cheese ; place a ring of tomato puree, as 
below, on the top of each, as shown in engraving, dish up on a dish-paper, 
garnish with a little fresh parsley and with little blocks of the tomato 



OF EXTRA RECIPES DISHES WITH PASTRIES, ETC. 551 

puree, and serve for a savoury or second-course dish, or for ball 
suppers. 

Tomato Puree for Patties a la Torento. Pound four or five 
raw ripe tomatoes till smooth, mix with a few drops of liquid carmine, a 
dust of coralline pepper, and half a pint of liquid aspic jelly in which 
is dissolved four sheets of Marshall's gelatine ; rub through a tammy, set 
on ice till firm, then cut out in rounds and use. 



552 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 



CHAPTER XV 
BUNS, BREADS, CAKES, BISCUITS, AND DESSERT SWEETS 

Little Alexandra Cakes 

Put into a stewpan or egg bowl four large fresh eggs, four ounces of 
fine castor sugar, twelve drops of essence of vanilla, and one ounce 
of powdered vanilla chocolate ; whip these over a stewpan containing 
boiling water until the mixture is just warm, remove from the fire and 
whip it till cold and thick, then add to it three ounces of fine flour that 
has been warmed and passed through a wire sieve. Brush over a saute 
pan with warm butter and line it with a buttered paper, sprinkle over 
with castor sugar and flour mixed together in equal quantities, and pour 
the prepared mixture into it to the depth of about half an inch ; put 




the saute pan in a moderate oven and bake the mixture for twenty-five 
to thirty minutes ; then turn it out, and when cool split it with a knife 
from the side into two slices. Place a layer of almond icing (vol. i. p. 41) 
of equal thickness on one of the slices, pressing it well down with a 
palette knife ; then place the other slice on top of this, and pour over 
the cake a Maraschino and coffee glace (as below) ; let this get set, and 
when quite cold dip a knife into boiling water and then cut the cake 
crosswise into strips about one and a half inches long ; dish up on a dish- 
paper, and serve for a dinner sweet, to hand with ice or a macedoine of 
fruits, or for any cold collation, or tney may be served for dessert. 



OF EXTRA RECIPES BUNS, BREADS, CAKES, ETC. 553 

Maraschino and Coffee Glace for Little Cakes a l'Alexandra. 
Mix together three-quarters of a pound of Marshall's Icing Sugar, 
one and a half tablespoonfuls of Maraschino syrup or liqueur, and two 
tablespoonfuls of warm water ; then just warm over the fire, add about 
a teaspoonful of coffee essence, and draw a fork through the glace, which 
will give it a mottled appearance ; then pour it over the cake as described 
above. 

Adeline Cake 

Take a quarter-pound of butter, work it into a nice creamy state, 
mix into it three ounces of castor sugar, and work it again for about six 
to eight minutes ; then stir into it six ounces of fine flour that has been 
sifted and three whole raw eggs, three tablespoonfuls of cream, the finely- 
chopped zest of one lemon and one orange ; colour with carmine to a very 
pale salmon colour, then mix in three ounces of dried cherries that are cut 
up into little pieces, and three-quarters of an ounce of Cowan's Baking 
Powder mixed with a pinch of ground clove. Have a plain cake-tin 
greased and lined with greased paper, sprinkle it all over with finely- 
shredded blanched almonds, put the mixture into the mould and bake for 
forty to fifty minutes ; then turn out and remove the paper, and serve 
for tea, luncheon, &c. This can also be baked in small moulds. 



Rose Almond, Oake 

Take six ounces of Marshall's Icing Sugar, mix it till like cream 
with three ounces of good butter, add a wineglass of rose water, six 
ounces of fine sifted flour ; work well together, then mix in six ounces 
of ground almonds with six raw yolks of eggs, six drops of almond 
essence, a teaspoonful of vanilla essence ; colour with liquid carmine, 
and add half an ounce of Cowan's Baking Powder. Whip the whites 
of the eggs stiffly and add to the former mixture ; put a square fleur 
mould that has been brushed over with warm butter and then dusted with 
ground almonds on three or four folds of well-buttered foolscap paper, 
put in the cake mixture and place in rather a quick oven for forty to sixty 
minutes ; then take up and leave in the tin till somewhat cooled before 
turning from the tin, which is done by taking out the pegs when the 
cake is quite cold. Ice it over with Maraschino glace (vol. i.) coloured 
red and flavoured with rose water, and sprinkle the top with crystallised 
rose leaves, and the edge with blanched and shredded pistachio nuts, 
and serve for ball supper, tea, tennis, &c. 



554 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 



American Flannel Cakes 

Put into a basin ten ounces of fine sifted flour, and add two large 
whole eggs, a pinch of salt, and mix with barely one pint of new milk ; 
stir well together for about five minutes, making the mixture into a 
perfectly smooth batter. Have an iron baking-tin perfectly clean and 
put it on the top of the stove (hot-plate) ; then when quite hot rub it 
over well with a piece of raw fat bacon, pour the mixture on the tin in 
quantity of about half a gill at a time, and let it spread about the 
eighth of an inch in thickness ; let each such cake cook for about three 
to four minutes, during which time turn them over by means of a palette- 
knife, allowing each side to take a nice light brown colour. Then take 
up and arrange on a hot dish one on the other, and spread between each 
a little maple syrup, or, if liked, brown sugar, and a slight dust of ground 
ginger. Serve while quite hot for dinner Or luncheon. 

Buckwheat Cream Cakes 

Put in a basin one pound of buckwheat flour, a teaspoonful of salt, 
a tablespoonful of fine castor sugar, and a pinch of ground cinnamon ; 
mix this with three gills of cold single cream into a light batter, and 
add to it half an ounce of Cowan's Baking Powder. Make the griddle 
or baking-tin hot and well grease it (as in recipe for American Flannel 
Cakes), place the warmed and greased fleur rings on it, and pour in 
each about one gill of the mixture ; let this cook on the top of the stove 
or fire for about fifteen to twenty minutes, when it should be a nice golden 
colour ; turn it once only during the cooking by means of a palette-knife ; 
when cooked, take up the cakes and place them one on the other on 
a hot plate or muffin dish, and pour over them some preserve or warm 
butter. They may, if wished, be cut into three or four pieces., Serve 
as a hot dish for breakfast or afternoon tea. The quantities given above 
are enough to make six cakes cooked in rings of four inches in diameter 
and one inch deep. 

Bath Tea Cakes 

Work a quarter-pound of butter in a basin with a wooden spoon till 
like cream, "then mix in six ounces of castor sugar, a good pinch of 
ground cinnamon and ground ginger, and stir up together for about five 
minutes, then add three-quarters of a pound of fine flour that has been sifted 
and warmed, with four raw whole eggs, adding two tablespoonful s of flour 



OF EXTRA RECIPES BUNS, BREADS, CAKES, ETC. 555 

to each egg at the time ; take three-quarters of an ounce of Cowan's 
Baking Powder and two tablespoonfuls of rose water and add to these 
ingredients, with a quarter-pound of well-washed and dried currants. 
Have some little fancy cake-tins, brushed over with warm butter, and 
dusted over with dried sweet cocoanut, and partly fill them with the 
preparation ; place a dried cherry in the centre of each and two or three 
halves of blanched split almonds ; bake in a moderate oven for fifteen to 
twenty minutes, then turn out and use for afternoon tea, &c. 

Bohemian Cake 

Work a quarter-pound of butter till creamy, then add a quarter of a 
pound of castor sugar, two ounces of grated chocolate, the juice and 
finely-chopped peel of a lemon, six ounces of fine flour, three raw yolks 
of eggs, a quarter of a pound of finely-chopped mixed peel, half an 
ounce of Cowan's Baking Powder, and the stiffly-whipped whites of the 
eggs. Put the mixture into a well-buttered cake-tin that is lined with 
a buttered paper, and bake it in a moderate oven for forty to sixty 
minutes ; then turn out, and use when cold for tea, tennis parties, &c. 

Bartlett Chocolate Tea Cake 

Take half a pound of butter, a good pinch of ground cinnamon, and 
the same of ground mixed spice, the finely-chopped peel of one lemon, 
stir together till the mixture presents a fcreamy appearance ; then add 
six ounces of grated vanilla chocolate, six ounces of castor sugar ; mix 
up well, and add by degrees eight ounces of fine flour that has been 
rubbed through a wire sieve, and five whole raw eggs, two ounces of 
browned breadcrumbs, two ounces of very finely-chopped or ground 
almonds, half an ounce of Cowan's Baking Powder, and a wineglassful of 
orange-flower water ; mix up well together, and then put into a cake 
mould that is buttered and papered, and bake in a moderate oven for 
about one hour. When cooked turn out, and serve when cold for 
luncheon, tea, &c. 

Cocoanut Pound Cake 

Mix together till quite white and creamy half a pound of castor 
sugar and six ounces of good butter ; then add the finely-chopped peel of 
one lemon, a pinch of ground nutmeg and cinnamon, two tablespoonfuls 
of rose water, a dessertspoonful of orange-flower water, half a pound of 
sifted fine flour, and half a pound of cleansed grated cocoanut ; add by 



556 MBS. A. B. MABSHALL'S LABGEB COOKER* BOOK 

degrees six raw yolks of eggs, and mix again for about ten minutes ; 
then add the whites of the six eggs (that have been whipped stiff 
with a pinch of salt), half an ounce of Cowan's Baking Powder, 
and half a gill of cocoanut milk. Butter two cake or fleur tins, and 
arrange inside each a buttered paper ; dust these over with castor 
sugar and fine flour that are mixed together in equal quantities ; then 
sprinkle them well with dried cocoanut, add the prepared mixture, and 
put to bake in a moderate oven for about one hour ; turn out the cakes 
when cooked, and serve for tea, luncheon, &c. These are excellent for 
ball suppers when baked in small moulds to serve as little cakes. If the 
above mixture is baked in one tin, it will take rather better than one and 
a half hours to cook. 

Chicago Dough -nuts 

Take one pound of fine flour, and rub into it till smooth four ounces 
of butter, six ounces of castor sugar, a quarter-ounce of ground cinnamon, 
three whole well-beaten-up eggs, and half a gill of water ; add to it one 
ounce of German yeast, mixed with one and a half gills of tepid milk 
and a pinch of salt, and make into a light dough ; cover it over with a 
cloth, and set it aside in a cool place till the next morning. Then roll 
out the paste on a slab, with a little fine flour, stamp it out with a plain 
round cutter, put the rounds on floured tins, and leave them to rise in a 
warm place for twenty to thirty minutes ; then drop them into clean 
boiling lard, and shake the pan about occasionally until they are a nice 
brown colour ; then take them up, dust them over with castor or icing 
sugar, dish up in a pile, and serve for tea, dinner, or luncheon. 



Confederate Cake 

Put into a basin half a pound of good butter, and work it with the 
hand or with a spoon till quite like a cream, then add half a pound of 
castor sugar and continue the mixing for about fifteen minutes ; then 
add by degrees eight ounces of finely-sifted and warmed flour and eight 
raw yolks of eggs ; when these are well mixed together whip the whites 
of eight eggs very stiffly with a pinch of salt, and add them to the 
mixture. Brush over with warm butter two shallow tins, and line them 
with a buttered paper that has been dusted over with castor sugar and 
fine flour mixed in equal quantities ; put the mixture into these, sprinkle 
over the tops a little castor sugar, and bake in a moderate oven for forty 
to fifty minutes ; then take up the" cakes, remove them from the tins, 



OF EXTRA EECIPES BUNS, BREADS, CAKES, ETC. 557 

and when cool mask each over with water glace (see recipe). When 
this is set dish up the cakes on a plate on a dish-paper, and serve for 
tea, dessert, luncheon, &c. 

9 

Little French Cakes 

Take half a pound of Valencia almonds, put them in cold water and 
bring them to the boil, then strain and rinse in cold water and rub them 
in a cloth to take off the skins ; chop them fine (or ground almonds can be 
used) and mix them with two ounces of Marshall's Creme de Riz, two 
ounces of castor sugar, two ounces of warm butter, one tablespoonful of 
orange-flower water, one tablespoonful of brandy, and enough liquid car- 
mine to make the mixture a pretty salmon colour ; work these ingredients 
all together for about ten minutes with a wooden spoon. Then have some 
little bouche cups brushed over with warm butter and dusted over with 




castor sugar and fine flour that have been mixed together in equal quan- 
tities, and nearly fill the little moulds with the mixture ; bake in a very 
moderate oven for fifteen to twenty minutes, when the mixture will 
be firm to the touch ; then turn out on to a pastry rack or sieve, and 
when they are cool mask entirely with Maraschino glace (vol. i.), lightly 
sprinkle over a little blanched and chopped pistachios, place each of the 
cakes in a lace-edged paper case, and serve. These are nice for a sweet 
to be served with ice, or they can be used for dessert or afternoon tea ; 
if being served for the latter they should be quite plain. 

Genoise Paste 

Take half a pound of good butter, and the finely-chopped peel of one 
lemon, and work them in a basin with a wooden spoon till white and like 
cream ; then add half a pound of castor sugar and work them together 
for about ten minutes, and then mix in by degrees five small whole eggs 



558 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

and half a pound of finely-sifted flour, adding one egg and about one 
tablespoonful of flour at the time, and lastly an eighth of an ounce of 
Cowan's Baking Powder. This mixture takes about twenty minutes 
to prepare, and the quantities given above are sufficient for eight to 
ten persons. This is a very useful mixture, as very many ea3y and 
pretty dishes can be made from it quickly. 

Genoa Cake 

Take seven ounces of good butter, the very finely-chopped peel of 
one lemon, and a pinch of ground cinnamon ; work together to the 
consistency of cream, then mix with it six ounces of castor sugar and 
work these together for about ten minutes ; then add to it six ounces of 
fine flour and four whole raw eggs, mixing one egg and a little flour in 
at a time and by degrees ; when both are well mixed add three ounces 
of blanched and finely-shredded almonds, four ounces finely-shredded 
dried cherries, and an eighth of an ounce of Cowan's Baking Powder. 
Brush over a saute pan with warm butter, line it with a buttered paper, 
then dust it over with castor sugar and fine flour mixed together in 
equal quantities. Pour the mixture into this and bake in a moderate oven 
for thirty-five to forty minutes ; then turn out and when cool cut the 
cake into fancy shapes or serve it whole, icing it over with Maraschino 
or Noyeau glace (vol. i.) Serve for afternoon tea, &c. 

Knutsford Cake 

Take half a pound of butter, a quarter-ounce of ground ginger, the 
finely-chopped zest of two oranges, a pinch of turmeric powder and 
ground cinnamon, mix up into a creamy consistency ; then add six ounces 
of castor sugar and mix again for several minutes ; add by degrees ten 
ounces of fine flour that has been sifted and the strained juice of the 
two oranges, a saltspoonful of vanilla essence, and five whole eggs that 
have been well beaten up with a whisk ; when well mixed together add 
half an ounce of Cowan's Baking Powder. Take a plain cake-tin, brush 
it over with warm butter, then line it with a well-greased paper, and put 
the prepared cake mixture into it in layers with very thinly-cut slices of 
candied lemon and citron peel, putting the cake mixture about one inch 
deep and then the peel, and continuing in the same way till the mixture 
is used up. Bake in a moderate oven for about one hour till a nice 
golden colour; then turn out, remove the paper, and use when cold 
for tea, &c. 



OF EXTRA RECIPES BUNS, BREADS, CAKES, ETC. 559 



Milan Cakes 

Work half a pound of butter to a creamy consistency with the peels 
of one lemon and of two oranges, then add half a pound of castor sugar, 
mix well together for about ten minutes ; then stir into it four raw 
yolks of eggs and ten ounces of fine flour, mixing by degrees ; flavour 
with a tablespoonful of orange-flower water and a teaspoonful of vanilla 
essence, and mix in a quarter-pound of finely-chopped cocoanut, or 
have the whites of the eggs whipped stiff with a pinch of salt and mix 
into the cake ; put half an ounce of Cowan's Baking Powder and two 
tablespoonfuls of cold milk to the other ingredients j ust before baking. 
Take some greased baking-tins and cover them with buttered foolscap 
paper, and then put the prepared mixture into a forcing bag with a plain 
pipe and force it out at a good distance apart into little rounds on the 
tins ; stick some shredded cocoanut on the top of each, and dust over 
with icing sugar, and bake in a moderate oven for about twenty minutes 
till a nice golden colour ; then remove from the paper, and when cold dish 
up on a paper and serve for tea, dessert, &c. 



Mexican Cake 

Put half a pound of butter into a basin with the finely-chopped peel 
of two lemons, four ounces of crystallised ginger chopped very fine, an 
eighth of an ounce each of ground ginger and mixed spice, stir together till 
the mixture presents a creamy appearance, then mix in a half-pound of 
castor sugar and continue the mixing for about six minutes ; add four 
whole well-beaten-up raw eggs, a quarter-pound of golden syrup, one 
wineglassful of brandy and one of Noyeau or Maraschino, half a pound of 
corn meal, and a quarter of whole meal, half a pound of candied peel 
cut into long thin slices, a quarter-pound of dried cherries cut into 
quarters, and one ounce of Cowan's Baking Powder. Put the mixture 
in a large buttered brioche cake-tin about three inches deep, cover the 
top entirely with halves of blanched Jordan almonds, and put it to bake 
for rather more than one hour in a moderate oven till a nice golden colour. 
The cooking of the cake can be tested by piercing the cake with a 
skewer, if the skewer leaves the cake clear the mixture is done ; then 
turn out and brush over the top of the cake with golden syrup, using 
a paste brush for the purpose. When cold serve for tea, &c. The mix- 
ture is also very nice baked in small moulds. 



560 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S- LARGER COOKERY BOOK 



Madeira Cake 

Take three-quarters of a pound of good butter, work it to a creamy con- 
sistency with the finely-chopped peel of onelemon,a pinch of ground cinna- 
mon ; then mix with it one pound of castor sugar and work again for about 
fifteen minutes, after which add by degrees one and a quarter pounds of 
fine flour that has been sifted and eight whole raw eggs, working the 
mixture in all about twenty minutes ; then mix in a half-ounce of Cowan's 
Baking Powder and a quarter-pint of cold milk. Have two or three 
small cake moulds buttered and lined with buttered paper, and then 
put the mixture into the moulds and brush over with a little raw 
white of egg and syrup, and arrange some long thin slices of candied 
peel on the top if liked, and bake in a moderate oven for about one and 
a half hours, when they should be a nice brown colour. 

Marquis Cakes 

Pass three-quarters of a pound of fine flour through a sieve, and mix 
into it till smooth a quarter of a pound of butter, one and a half ounces 
of Marshall's Creme de Riz, two ounces of castor sugar, two ounces of 
finely-chopped blanched almonds, a pinch of salt, and a quarter-ounce 
of caraway seeds. Mix two raw yolks of eggs in a basin with two and 
a half gills of cold milk, add to it one ounce of Cowan's Baking 
Powder, and mix with the other ingredients into a dough ; take out 
of the basin, roll the mixture out about one inch thick, and stamp 
it out with a plain round cutter about two inches in diameter ; garnish 
the tops round the edge with blanched shredded almonds, and form any 
pretty designs in the centre with cut mixed peel and dried cherries ; 
place them on a lightly-floured baking-tin and bake in a moderate oven 
for twenty to twenty-five minutes. Care must be taken that the almonds 
do not get a dark colour, and when the cakes have been in the oven for 
about five minutes it is advisable to place a thin piece of kitchen paper 
over them. These cakes can be served with honey or jam, and if served 
for breakfast the sugar can, if liked, be omitted. This quantity is 
sufficient to make eighteen cakes. 

Madison Slim Cakes 

Take three-quarters of a pound of fine flour that has been sifted, 
and mix with it two and a half ounces of castor sugar ; rub into it till 



OF EXTRA RECIPES BUNS, BREADS, CAKES, ETC. 561 

quite smooth six ounces of good butter, as much cinnamon as will cover 
a threepenny-piece, a quarter of an ounce of ground ginger, three ounces 
of vanilla or ratafia biscuit crumbs (that have been rubbed through a 
wire sieve), and one and a half ounces of desiccated cocoanut ; add to 
these one and a half gills of cold milk that has been mixed with three 
whipped whole eggs, and one ounce of Cowan's Baking Powder ; mix 
all together into a light dough, roll it out with a little fine flour, cut 
it into squares two inches in diameter, and brush each over with cold 
milk ; then sprinkle with cocoanut, put them on slightly -greased tins, 
and bake in a quick oven for about twenty minutes, when they should 
be a nice golden colour. Serve for tea, &c. 



Muscats 

Rub two ounces of Pry's Caracas Chocolate through a tine wire sieve, 
add to it one ounce of Marshall's Icing Sugar and half a gill of water, si ir 
all together in a stewpan over the fire till it boils, then draw the pan to 
the side of the stove, and let the contents simmer for a quarter of an 
hour, when it should present the appearance of thick batter. Put into 
a whipping-pan four large raw whites of eggs with a pinch of salt, and 
whip them very stiff as for meringues ; mix into it very carefully six 
ounces of castor sugar, add to the chocolate mixture, put into a forcing 




bag with a large rose pipe, and force it out on to a prepared baking-tin 
in shapes as shown about three inches in length and one inch in width ; dust 
them well over with icing sugar, using a dredger for the purpose. Place 
the tin in a very cool oven, and dry in the same manner as meringues till 
the muscats are quite crisp, when they can be lifted off the tin with a 
palette-knif - ; dish them up on a dish-paper, and serve for a sweet for 
dinner or luncheon, handed with whipped cream or ice, or they can be 
served for dessert or ball suppers, &c, and can always be kept ready for 
use by being stored in a clean box in a dry place. 

o o 



562 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

To Prepare Baking-tins for Muscats. Place the tins in the oven 
to get quite hot, rub them over at once with a piece of the best white 
wax, set them aside till cold, then use. 

Neville Cake 

Take four ounces of butter, the peel of one lemon, two very finely 
chopped bayleaves, and a quarter of an ounce of ground cinnamon ; 
mix till like a cream, then stir in six ounces of castor sugar that has 
been pounded till smooth with a vanilla pod, and then rubbed through a 
fine wire sieve. Take two ounces of Marshall's Creme de Biz, and five 
ounces of fine flour, mixed together ; add these to the former ingredients 
with four whole raw eggs, a wineglassful of sherry, two tablespoonfuls of 
thick cream ; add three-quarters of an ounce of Cowan's Baking Powder 
and a quarter-pound of ground almonds, mix together, and put into any 
nice fancy mould that has been brushed over with warm butter, and then 
dusted over with browned breadcrumbs, and bake in a moderate oven 
for one hour ; then turn out and serve for tea, &c. 

Little Neva Cakes 

Mix together in a basin with a wooden spoon or with the hand a 
quarter-pound of fresh butter and the finely-chopped peel of one lemon 
until quite creamy ; then add three ounces of vanilla sugar, and work 
again for about fifteen minutes, adding by degrees one ounce of 
Marshall's Creme de Riz, two ounces of fine flour, one ounce and a half 
of ratafia crumbs, three large whole eggs, and a half-tablespoonful of 
orange-flower water ; colour a very pale salmon colour with liquid 
carmine. Take some small fancy cake moulds such as leaf, rose, bouche 
or queen cake tins, brush them over with warm butter, and dust over 
with sifted ratafia biscuit-crumbs, and by means of a forcing bag and a 
large plain pipe fill up the moulds with the above mixture ; place these 
on a baking-tin, put into a moderate oven, and bake for fifteen to 
twenty minutes ; then take up and turn out on a pastry rack, and when 
cool dish up on a dish-paper and serve for afternoon teas, tennis-parties, 
ball suppers, &c. 

Care must be taken in the cooking not to discolour the cakes. 

Philadelphia Dough -nuts 

Take six ounces of good butter and work it to a creamy consistenc}^, 
then work into it half a pound of castor sugar, a teaspoonful of salt, a 



OF EXTRA RECIPES BUNS, BREADS, CAKES, ETC. 563 

quarter-ounce of ground cinnamon, a pinch of ground mace and nut- 
meg, and an ounce of German yeast that has been mixed with one and 
a half gills of warm milk ; also add slowly by degrees three-quarters of 
a pound of sifted fine flour, and set it aside in a cool place till the next 
morning ; then add to it three well-beaten-up raw eggs and a little 
more flour if needed, and set aside for an hour to rise ; when light, roll 
out and stamp it out with a plain round cutter ; fry these rounds in 
plenty of clean hot lard till a nice golden colour ; then take up, dust over 
with castor or icing sugar, and serve for dinners, luncheons, ball sup- 
pers, &c. 

Queen Cakes 

I 'at into a basin half a pound of good cooking butter, a quarter-part 
of a nutmeg grated, and the finely-chopped peel of one lemon, and stir 
with a wooden spoon or with the hand till the mixture presents a creamy 
appearance, then add to it half a pound of castor sugar, stir again for 
about ten minutes ; then add by degrees three-quarters of a pound of 
finely-sifted flour, and four raw yolks of eggs, adding one yolk and two 
tablespoonfuls of flour at the time. Take a quarter of an ounce of 
Cowan's Baking Powder and three tablespoonfuls of cold milk, and 
add to the other ingredients, and lastly add the stiffly-whipped whites 
of the eggs and a pinch of salt, taking care not to stir the mixture 
much after adding the whites, or it will curdle. Take some queen 
cake tins, brush over the insides with' warm butter, dust them over 
with castor sugar and fine flour mixed in equal quantities, and half 
fill them with the cake mixture, using a forcing bag and pipe for the 
purpose ; give each mould a knock on the table after putting in the 
mixture; ornament the top of each cake with any nice pieces of dried 
fruits, such as angelica, sultanas, candied peel, dried cherries, and dried 
sweet cocoanut, in any pretty design ; place the tins on a baking-sheet, 
and bake the cakes in a quick oven for twenty to twenty-five minutes, 
when they should be a nice golden colour ; then turn out, and serve for 
afternoon teas, picnics, garden parties, &c. They can be kept some days 
if put into a tin box. 

Queen Cocoanut Cakes 

Take four ounces of butter worked till like cream, add to it a 
quarter-pound of castor sugar, mix together till quite white, mix in by 
degrees five ounces of fine flour, one ounce of Marshall's Creme de Riz, 
and by degrees three raw yolks of egg that have been mixed with a gill 

o o 2 



564 MRS. A B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

of cream, a teaspoonful of vanilla essence, and a quarter-pound of dried 
sweet cocoanut. Have the whites of the eggs whipped stiffly with a 
pinch of salt, and add to the preparation half an ounce of Cowan's 
Baking Powder, carefully sprinkled into it. Have some baking-tins 
brushed over with warm butter, and covered with buttered foolscap 
paper ; put the prepared mixture into a forcing bag with a plain pipe, 
then force out on the tins in rounds or finger-lengths, and bake for 
fibout twenty minutes ; then by means of a forcing bag with a plain 
pipe mask the top over with a pale pink meringue as used in ' Meringues 
a l'Americaine,' dust over with some of the cocoanut, and dredge with 
icing sugar, and then put into a moderate oven to cook for about twenty 
minutes without discolouring ; serve for tea. dessert. Sec. 

Richmond Cakes 

Take six ounces of butter, a quarter-ounce of ground mixed spice, 
the same of ground ginger ; mix together till of a creamy consistency, 
then add a quarter-pound of brown sugar, a quarter-pound of treacle 
mixed well together, a half-pound of fine Hour, two ounces of Marshall's 
Oreme de Riz added by degrees, with four whole eggs, two tablespoon- 
fuls of dried cocoanut, half an ounce of Cowan's Baking Powder ; put 
the mixture into a forcing bag with a plain pipe, and partly fill any 
little fancy moulds that have been rubbed over with a little cold butter 
and dusted over with the dried cocoanut, and place on a baking-tin 
and cook in a moderate oven for fifteen to twenty minutes. Then turn 
out and serve for afternoon tea, &c. 

Swiss Roll 

Put three ounces of castor sugar into a basin with a quarter-ounce 
of tartaric acid and a quarter-ounce of bicarbonate of soda ; mix into 
these three whole eggs, adding one at a time, stirring together till the 
mixture looks like a souffle ; then add four ounces of fine flour (that has 
been passed through a wire sieve and warmed), working it into the 
mixture by degrees. Have a baking-tin with an edge to it, brush it 
over with clarified butter or salad oil, then paper it with oiled or but- 
tered paper ; dust the paper over with sugar and flour mixed together 
in equal quantities, and pour the mixture on to it ; spread it/over with a 
palette-knife till smooth, and put it in a moderate oven for about fifteen 
minutes, then turn it out on to,- a slab and spread over it any nice 
jam ; roll up quickly and then brush it over with jam prepared as below, 



OS EXTRA RECIPES -BUNS, BREADS, CAKES, ETC. 



.05 



and sprinkle this all ovei* with rough beads of loaf sugar or blanched 
and chopped pistachio nuts. Dish on a paper or napkin either whole or 
in slices. 

Jam for Swiss Roll. Put two tablespoonfuls of currant or straw- 
berry jam in a stewpan with two tablespoonfuls of castor sugar, four 
tablespoonfuls of water, a tablespoonful of rose-water, and a few drops 
of carmine ; boil till reduced to half the quantity, then rub through a 
sieve and use. 

Sultana Cake 

Put eight ounces of butter into a basin, with the finely-chopped peel 
of one lemon, and mix it with a wooden spoon till quite white and like 
cream ; add to it six ounces of castor sugar, and continue the mixing 
for about ten minutes, then add four raw yolks of eggs and ten ounces 
of fine Hour that has been sifted. When these ingredients have been 
thoroughly mixed together, have five raw whites of eggs whipped stiff 
with a pinch of salt, and add them to the other mixture, with six ounces 
of picked sultanas and half an ounce of Cowan's Baking Powder, taking 
care not to work the mixture more than possible after the whites are 
added. Butter a plain mould, and line it with a buttered paper, then 
put the mixture into if and bake in a moderate oven for about one hour 
and a quarter. When cooked, turn out the cake, remove the papers, 
and serve when cool for luncheon, tea, &c. 

Tennis Cake 

Take a quarter of a pound of good butter, tin 1 finely-chopped peel of a 
lemon, work together till quite smooth and creamy, then add three ounces 
of castor sugar, a pinch of ground cinnamon, and work again for about ten 




minutes; then add by degrees a quarter of a pound of finely-sifted warm 
flour, one ounce of Marshall's Creme de Biz, a wineglass of Maraschino, 
a saltspoonful of vanilla essence and three raw yolks of egg (putting 



566 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

a tablespoonful of flour and one yolk in at the time), and mixing well 
together. Have the whites of egg whipped stiff with a pinch of salt, and 
add to the other ingredients with an eighth of an ounce of Cowan's 
Baking Powder, one ounce of cleansed sultanas, and a quarter of a pound 
of uncrystallised cherries, both cut up small ; put the prepared mixture 
into a square fleur mould that has been buttered and dusted over with 
castor sugar and fine flour and surrounded with a band of buttered 
paper, and bake for one and a half hours, then turn out and when 
cold cover entirely with Almond paste (vol. i.) ; let this dry well until 
the next day, and then coat over with Royal icing (vol. i.) and ornament- 
by means of forcing bags and fancy pipes, and here and there garnish 
with blanched whole pistachios and a little red-coloured sugar. Serve 
for ball supper, tea. &c. 

Tunbridge Cakes 

Put three-quarters of a pound of good butter in a basin and work 
it with the hand to a creamy consistency j add three-quarters of a pound 
of castor sugar and work it again for about eight minutes ; then add by 
degrees four whole eggs, three tablespoonfuls of rose water, and the 
finely-chopped peel of one lemon ; mix this well, and add one and a 
quarter pounds of fine flour that has been sifted, and a quarter-pound of 
Marshall's Creme de Riz. Make up into a light dough, roll out with a 
little flour on the slab about half an inch thick, and then stamp out with 
a plain or fluted cutter two inches in diameter ; place the pieces on a 
slightly floured baking-tin, and ornament them with any dried fruit, such 
as candied peel, &c. ; bake till a pretty fawn colour, in a moderate oven, 
for thirty-five to forty minutes, and serve for tea or dessert. These will 
keep good for a considerable time if put away in a box in a dry place. 
The above quantity is sufficient for three dozen cakes. 



Water Biscuits 

Take one pound of sifted fine flour, rub into it three ounces of butter 
till quite smooth, add a pinch of salt, and mix up into a stiff dry paste 
with cold water ; then roll out on a floured slab into a very thin wafer- 
like paste and prick it well all over with a pricker, then stamp out with 
a plain round cutter, or cut it into three inch squares ; put these on 
slightly floured tins, and bake in a moderate oven till a pale colour and 
crisp. These can always be kept rgady for use and are nice for tea or 
dessert. 



OF EXTRA RECIPES BUNS, BREADS, CAKES, ETC. 567 



Whigs 

Take three ounces of good butter, and work it in a basin to a creamy 
consistency, add a quarter-pound of castor sugar and half a teaspoonful 
of ground cinnamon, and work together with the hand or a wooden 
spoon for about fifteen minutes; then mix into it three whole eggs, 
adding one at a time, and work the mixture till quite smooth. Put 
into another basin two and a half gills of warm milk, mix with it one 
and a half ounces of German yeast ; then work it into the first mixture 
by degrees, with one pound of fine Hour that has been sifted and warmed 
in the screen. When all is added, beat all together into a light dough 
and work it with the hand for three or four minutes ; set it in a warm 
place and cover over with a cloth for three-quarters of an hour ; put in 
buttered whig tins and bake in a quick oven for about twenty-five 
minutes, when they should be a nice deep fawn colour ; remove from the 
tin and serve hot for breakfast or tea. These can also Ik- toasted like 
Sally Luns. 

Little Toscan Cakes 

Put into a basin three ounces of good butter and the finely-chopped peel 
of one lemon, and work these with a wooden spa m for about ten minutes : 
add half a pound of finely-chopped desiccated cocoanut, three ounces of 
Marshall's Creme de Riz, and three ounces of castor sugar, and mix these 
well together for another five minutes ; then add three whole raw eggs 
and six or eight drops of vanilla essence. Lightly brush the in sides of 
some little bouche moulds with warm butter, and dust them over with 




tine Hour and castor sugar that have been mixed in equal quantities, and 
with a forcing bag and plain pipe fill up the moulds with the prepared 
mixture, and bake in a moderate oven for fifteen to twenty minutes. Turn 
out the little cakes, and when cool glaze them over with Maraschino 
glace (vol. i.) ; place in the centre of the top of each a crystallised 
violet, or any dried fruit, and when the glace is set place each cake 
separately in a small fancy paper ease, dish up as in engraving, and 



508 MRS, A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

serve with ice for a dinner sweet, or they may be used for dessert, and 
if kept in a dry place will remain good for a week or two. The above 
quantities are sufficient for about three dozen little cakes. 

Tea or Breakfast Cakes 

Take for one pound of fine flour five ounces of butter, rub together 
till smooth, add a teaspoonful of salt, one ounce of castor sugar, one 
ounce of Cowan's Baking Powder, one pint of cold milk ; mix up lightly 
and quickly, roll out about a quarter of an inch thick, prick well all 
over, stamp out in rounds about two and a half inches in diameter, and 
bake on floured baking-tins for fifteen to twenty minutes in a quick 
oven. Dish up in a pile and use for tea or breakfast, &c. 

Ginger Biscuits 

Put into a stewpan three-quai-ters of a pound of good butter, half a 
pound of castor sugar, and half a pint of treacle ; melt these together 
over the fire, leave them till cool, then mix with it a quarter-ounce of 
ground mace, one ounce of ground ginger, one grated nutmeg, the 
finely-chopped peel of a lemon, three whole eggs, two and a half ounces 
of mixed peel cut into tiny square pieces, and two ounces of finely- 
chopped blanched almonds; mix these with one pound of sifted fine 
flour, and set it away in a cool place for two or three hours, then roll out 
very thin with a little flour, and garnish with blanched split almonds 
and cut peel ; cut out the cakes into rounds about a quarter-inch thick, 
and one and a half or two inches in diameter, and put to bake on 
slightly greased tins in a moderate oven for about fifteen minutes. They 
are then ready for use, and may be served for tea, &c. 

Brandy Snaps 

Rub one pound of fine flour with a quarter of a pound of good butter 
till quite smooth, then add one and a half pounds of moist sugar and 
make a hollow in the centre of the mixture, pour into this one pound of 
golden syrup, then mix up well together, roll out on a floured slab to the 
thickness of a shilling-piece, and with a plain cutter about five or six 
inches in diameter stamp it out into rounds ; arrange these on slightly 
greased baking-tins and bake in a moderate oven for about ten minutes ; 
then remove from the tins with a -palette-knife, brush them over very 
lightly with golden syrup and use. 



OF EXTRA RECIPES BUNS, BREABS, CA.KES, ETC. 569 



Almond "Wafers 

Take three-quarters of a pound of blanched and finely-chopped 
almonds, mix with them six ounces of castor sugar, three whole beaten- 
up eggs, one and a half ounces of fine sifted flour, and a saltspoonful 
of essence of vanilla ; brush over some baking-tins with clarified butter 
(vol. i.J, and when this is cool spread the mixture on the tins very thinly 
by means of a palette-knife, and put to bake in a very moderate oven 
for twelve to fifteen minutes, when the wafer should be dry on the top ; 
cut the paste into strips, rounds, or squares as liked ; put them in the 
screen or in a very moderate oven, and let them remain till quite dry 
and crisp, when they are ready for use. If kept in a dry place, they 
will remain good for some time, and can be used with ices or creams, or 
with compotes of fruits. 

Almond Princes 

Put six ounces of ^Marshall's Icing Sugar in a basin, add three 
ounces of blanched and very finely-shredded almonds, a few drops of 
vanilla essence, two small whites of egg, and mix up into a stiff paste ; 
then put it on greased foolscap paper on a baking-tin, in pieces about 
the size of a walnut; dust over well with icing sugar (using a sugar 
dredger for the purpose), stick three or four sharp-pointed cut strips 
of uncrystallised angelica, about one and a quarter inches long, in 
the top of each piece, and bake in a very moderate oven for about 
twenty minutes. When a nice golden colour take up and serve for 
dessert, ball suppers, evening parties, Szc. 

When the cakes have been in the oven for about ten minutes cover 
them over with a wetted sheet of kitchen paper, and leave them under 
cover till cooked. 

Gingerbread Nuts 

Mix three-quarters of a pound of fine sifted flour with one and a 
half ounces of ground ginger, four ounces of finely-chopped lemon and 
orange peel, and four ounces of brown sugar ; put into a stewpan four 
ounces of good butter and seven ounces of treacle, and stir these over 
the fire till the butter is melted; turn it on to the slab, add the other 
ingredients, knead into a stiff paste, and put away till cold ; then with 
a little flour roll it out about one-eighth of an inch thick ; stamp it out 
in rounds or any shapes you please, and bake them on buttered paper in 
a quick oven from twelve to fifteen minutes. 



570 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 



Little Flowers 

Take some little rose moulds and brush over the insides with warm 
clarified butter (vol. i.), then dust this over with a dessertspoonful of 
fine flour and a dessertspoonful of castor sugar, that have been well 
mixed together ; when this is completed, partly fill up the moulds, by 
means of a forcing bag and plain pipe, with Genoise paste (see recipe), 
and bake them in a moderate oven for about thirty minutes, when they 
should be a pretty fawn colour. Remove the cakes from the moulds 
and put them aside till cold, then with a small pointed knife cut out 




the centres from the bottom, and fill up the spaces thus formed with 
almond meringue mixture, as below, and put them again into the oven 
in the tins, with the bottoms uppermost, so that the meringue mixture 
does not run out. When the meringue is dry on the top. take out of 
the oven and mask over the cakes with apricot jam, then glaze with 
mottled glace, set them aside till cool, then dish up, as in engraving, on 
a dish-paper or napkin ; garnish with little artificial green leaves, and 
serve for a sweet or for any cold collation or dessert, &c. 

Mottled Glace for Little Flowers. Take three-quarters of a 
pound of icing sugar, one tablespoonful of brandy, the same quantity of 
Noyeau or Maraschino, and one and a half tablespoonfuls of warm water ; 
stir this in a stewpan over the fire till warm, then add three or four 
drops of liquid carmine, and stir this in with a fork so as to give the 
glace a mottled appearance ; when ready pour over the cakes and finish 
as described above. 

Almond Meringue Mixture for Little Flowers. Whip stiff two 
whites of fresh eggs with a pinch of salt, then add one and a half ounces 
of castor sugar, and half an ounce of blanched, peeled, and finely shredded 
Valencia almonds ; stir together with a wooden spoon, with care not to 
curdle the mixture. 

Victoria Cakes 

Take half a pound of fine sifted flour, put it to warm, and mix it 
with two ounces of vanilla or other biscuit crumbs ; put into a basin 



OF EXTRA RECIPES BUNS, BREADS, CAKES, ETC. 571 

eight ounces of butter, mix it with the hand or wooden spoon till like 
cream, then add six ounces of castor sugar, the finely-chopped zest of 
two lemons and one orange, and the strained juice of the fruit ; add by 
degrees five whole raw eggs, half an ounce of ground cinnamon, then 
mix in the warm flour and crumbs, with half an ounce of Cowan's 
Baking Powder. Take a square baking-tin with a deep rim, brush it 
over with warm butter, and then line with buttered paper, and dust over 
with fine flour and castor sugar, mixed in equal quantities ; spread the 
mixture out on the tin about one and a half inches thick, then sprinkle 
the top over with caraway comfits or any other pretty small sweetmeats, 
and dried cocoa-nut, then put into a moderate even and bake till a nice 
light brown colour, for about forty minutes : take up. and when some- 
what cool turn out; when quite cold cut lip into two-inch square 
pieces, and serve for tea, &c. This can also be linked in small fancy 
moulds if preferred. 

American Buns 

Take one pound of fine sifted flour, rub into it till smooth half a 
pound of butter and three ounces of castor sugar, a saltspoonful of 
ground cinnamon and a pinch of salt; beat up five raw eggs with 
a fork till smooth, and add to them one and a half gills of warm cream 
or milk in which is mixed one and a half ounces of German yeast; stir 
these ingredients together till smooth, then add to the prepared flour 
and knead it up into a light dough, cover "it up in a basin and leave to 
rise for about two hours in a warm place, then roll up into little balls 
and place on slightly floured baking-tins ; brush over the top of each 
with a little raw white of egg that is sweetened with plain syrup, place 
on the buns some pieces of candied peel and some blanched and split 
halves of almonds, set to rise for about fifteen minutes before baking, 
then bake in a moderate oven for twenty to twenty-five minutes. Take 
up and brush over with golden syrup. These can be served for tea or 
breakfast, hot or cold. 

Currant Buns 

Put a pound of sifted fine flour into a basin, add a pinch of salt, and 
one and a half ounces of castor sugar, rub into it till quite smooth two 
and a half ounces of good butter, mix one and a half ounces of German 
yeast with rather better than half a pint of warm milk, and one whole 
egg ; add to the flour, work together with the hand for five or six 
minutes, then cover over the basin and put it in the screen to rise for 



572 MRS. A. 15. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKKRY BOOK 

about two or two and a half hours ; knead it with the hand into a light 
dough, add two ounces of well-washed and dried currants, make it into 
the desired shapes (using as little flour as possible), put the buns on 
lightly greased tins, put them to rise for fifteen to twenty minutes, then 
brush them over with whole raw beaten-up egg, that is mixed with a 
tablespoonful of cold milk, and bake them in a quick oven for fifteen to 
twenty minutes ; when a nice brown colour take up, brush them over 
with a little golden syrup, and use either hot or cold. 



Cream Buns 

Put into a stewpan a quarter-pound of butter, a quarter-pound of 
water, a pinch of salt, a teaspoonful of castor sugar ; place the pan on 
the stove and bring the contents to the boil, then mix into it a quarter- 
pound of fine flour that has been sifted, and stir together till boiling ; 
remove from the fire and add to it three whole raw eggs and a few 
drops of vanilla essence, mixing well into the paste ; when quite smooth 
put the mixture into a forcing bag with a large plain pipe, and force it 
out on to an ungreased baking-tin (using one with a cover for the purpose) 
in pieces about the size of a chicken's egg, at intervals about three and 
a half inches apart ; put the cover on the tin and place in a quick oven 
and bake from twenty-five to thirty minutes, when they should be a 
pretty golden brown colour ; remove from the tin and place on a pastry 
rack, and when cold remove a piece from the top of the bun, and by 
means of a forcing bag and rose pipe fill up the inside with garnishing 
cream (see recipe), and serve for afternoon tea. &c. 



Spanish Biuis 

Rub half a pound of butter info one pound of fine flour till smooth, 
and mix with it a good pinch of ground cinnamon and nutmeg. Put 
into a basin four whole raw beaten-up eggs, mix in one ounce of German 
yeast, and a small teacupful of warm milk, knead with the flour into a 
smooth dough, and set it to rise in a warm place for about two hours ; 
then add a quarter-pound of castor sugar, two ounces of blanched and 
finely-chopped almonds, and the chopped peel of a lemon, make up into 
little rounds, put them on a floured baking-tin, brush them over with a 
little warm sweetened milk, dust over with rough loaf sugar and chopped 
baked almonds, and cook in a quick oven for about twenty minutes. 
Serve for afternoon teas, &c. 



OF EXTRA RECIPES BUNS, BREADS, CAKES, ETC. 573 

Seed Buns 

Put in a basin one pound of fine flour, rub into it till quite smooth 
two ounces of good lard, four ounces of batter, three ounces of castor 
sugar, and a quarter-ounce of caraway seeds. Put in another basin two 
whole raw eggs, one and a half ounces of German yeast, and a half-pint 
of tepid new milk ; mix up together till smooth, then add to the flour, 
and work for three or four minutes till into a paste ; cover a clean cloth 
over the basin, and stand it in the screen to rise for about two hours, 
then turn out on the slab and work up into balls about the size of a 
chicken's egg, and put them on a greased baking-tin ; let them rise for 
about a quarter of an hour before cooking, brush over with a little 
new milk, sweetened with syrup or castor sugar, and bake in a moderate 
oven for fifteen to twenty minutes, then take up and brush over the tops 
with a little golden syrup, and serve for tea. &c., either hot or cold. 

Little Mannheim Breads 

Take half a pound of fine Hour, three ounces of castor sugar, and a 
little salt ; rub these into two ounces of butter, and add three tablespoon- 
fuls of thick warm cream that has been mixed with half an ounce of German 
yeast ; then mix all together with three whole eggs that have been well 
beaten-up with a fork, work into a moderately stiff paste, and set in a 
warm place for about one hour to rise; then roll it out with a rolling-pin 
to about a quarter of an inch in thickness, prick it well, and cut it into 
two-inch squares; place on a greased baking-tin, and bake in a quick 
oven till a nice golden colour ; serve hot or cold for breakfast or for tea. 



Bread for Breakfast or Tea made with Baking Powder 

Take, for one pound of finely-sifted flour, a quarter-ounce of salt and 
a pinch of castor sugar, and rub into it till quite smooth one and a half 
ounces of butter, then mix into it one ounce of Gowan's Baking Powder, 
and half a pint of cold new milk ; knead up into a light clean dough on 
the table or slab, taking care not to work the mixture more than possible, 
as this would tend to make the bread heavy. When sufficiently worked 
cut the dough into pieces about the size of a large chicken's egg, and 
with a little flour form it into any little fancy shapes ; place them a little 
distance apart on a floured baking-tin, then brush each over with a little 
warm milk that is very lightly sweetened with castor sugar ; put as 



574 MRS. A. I!. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

quickly as possible into a moderate oven and bake for fifteen to twenty 
minutes till a nice golden brown colour. Use hot or cold, for breakfast 
or tea. 



Barley Bread 

Put into a basin one and a half pounds of fine flour, one ounce salt, one 
ounce castor sugar, rather more than half a pound of barley flour, rub into 
it one and a half ounces of good butter till quite smooth, and add two 
ounces of Cowan's Baking Powder ; mix well all together and then make 
up into a light dough with cold milk and water, and form into two good- 
sized loaves ; place them on a floured baking-tin, and bake in a rather 
quick oven for about one and a quarter hours. Use for breakfast, after- 
noon teas, &c. Small loaves in fancy shapes can be made from the same 
mixture. 

Brown Bread Rolls 

Rub two ounces of butter and a saltspoonful of salt into one pound 
of brown meal ; put one ounce of German yeast into a basin and mix it 
into half a pint of tepid milk and water, add this to the meal, and work it 
into a light dough, cover it over with a cloth, and stand it in the screen 
or in a warm place for about one and a half hours ; then turn out on 
the slab and cut it into pieces ; roll up into the sizes required, put 
on a slightly floured baking-tin, and bake in a moderate oven for about 
twenty minutes. Serve for breakfast or tea. Sufficient for about four- 
teen rolls. 

Brentford Rolls 

Put in a basin one pound of fine flour, a saltspoonful of salt, and two 
ounces of castor sugar, and rub into it three ounces of good butter till 
quite smooth. Beat up two whole eggs with a fork, and mix them with 
half a pint of tepid milk and one ounce of German yeast till quite smooth, 
then mix it with the flour into a dough. Brush over some roll tins with 
clarified butter (vol. i.), roll up the dough into little balls about the 
size of a very small egg, and place one in each of the spaces in the tin ; 
place them in the screen for about one hour, and when the dough has 
well risen remove it to a quick oven, and bake for about twenty minutes, 
when the rolls should be a pretty brown colour. Serve these rolls either 
hot or cold, for breakfast or tea. 



OF EXTRA RECIPES BUNS, BREADS, CAKES, ETC. 575 



Boston Brown Bread 

Take half a pound of corn meal, a quarter of a pound of rye meal, a 
quarter of a pound of bran flour, and half a pound of wheat flour ; mix 
these together with half an ounce of salt and two ounces of sponge biscuit- 
crumbs, then put all together into a basin with half a pint of molasses 
and a half-pint of cold milk, in which one ounce of German yeast has 
been dissolved ; when these are well mixed together add half an ounce 
of Cowan's Baking Powder, and work all up into a dough. Lightly 
butter two Boston bread moulds (as the above quantities are sufficient 
for two loaves), and put in the mixture, then fix the covers on the moulds 
and stand the moulds in a deep utensil containing boiling water, which 
should be about three-fourths the depth of the moulds; put this in a 
moderate oven and let them cook for four hours, adding more boiling 
water occasionally as needed. When cooked, turn out the bread and 
serve it for tea, breakfast, luncheon, &c. it will keep good without 
getting dry for some days. 

Corn Bread 

Take four ounces of yellow corn meal, six ounces of fine flour, four 
ounces of castor sugar, and rub well together ; add three whole raw well- 
beaten eggs, one ounce of Cowan's Baking Powder and a pinch of salt, 
and mix with cold milk into a light dough ; roll out quickly and stamp 
with a plain cutter about two inches in diameter, and bake in a quick 
oven for fifteen to twenty minutes. Serve for breakfast, tea, &c, hot or 
cold, but better hot. 

Milk Bread 

Mix one pound of Vienna flour till quite smooth with two and a half 
ounces fresh butter, a pinch of salt, and two ounces of castor sugar; 
add an ounce of Cowan's Baking Powder and half a pint of new cold 
milk and stir with the flour into a light dough, make up into fancy 
shapes, put on a slightly floured tin, and bake in a quick oven for fifteen 
to twenty minutes, then use for breakfast, tea, &c. 



Bye Bread 

Put into a large basin one pound of fine flour and a teaspoonful of 
salt, and rub into it till quite smooth one ounce and a half of butter. 
Put into another basin one and a half pints of new milk and mix with 



576 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LAHGEB COOKERY BOOK 

it one ounce and a half of German yeast ; stir this into the flour and 
work it into a batter, cover it over, and set it in a warm place for 
twelve hours, then mix with it one and a half pounds of rye flour and 
three-quarters of a pint of tepid milk and water, knead it up into a 
dough, and leave it in the basin covered over with a cloth for three 
hours ; knead it up again, and make it into two loaves (either long or 
cottage-loaf shape) ; cut the dough here and there, put it on a floured 
tin, and bake it in a moderate oven for one hour. Serve hot or cold. 



Spiced Bread 

'lake half a pound of sifted line flour, rub into it an ounce of good 
butter till smooth, then add enough ground cinnamon to cover a sixpenny- 
piece, the same quantity of ground cloves and one ounce of castor sugar ; 
add three-quarters of an ounce of Cowan's Baking Powder and rather 
better than one and a half gills of cold milk to the flour, &c, and 
make into a light dough and roll up quickly into small loaves about 
the size of a chicken's egg, forming cottage or Coburg loaves ; brush 
each over with a little cold milk that is well sweetened with castor 
sugar, and bake them on a floured tin in a rather quick oven for fifteen 
to twenty minutes, when they should be a nice brown colour and the 
outsides quite crisp ; then take up and use either hot or cold, for after- 
noon tea, breakfast. &c. 

Scotch Shortbread 

Take one pound of fine flour, a quarter-pound of finely-chopped or 
ground blanched almonds, a quarter-pound of very finely-chopped mixed 
candied peel, a quarter-pound of castor sugar, the finely-chopped peel 
of one lemon, and mix with four raw yolks of egg, and three-quarters 
of a pound of warm butter (or if preferred good clean beef dripping can 
be used) ; mix into a paste and then carefully roll out on a floured slab 
into the thickness of about a quarter of an inch. The paste may be cut 
out into rounds or squares, large or small ; place the pieces on thick 
baking-tins that are covered with foolscap paper which has been rubbed 
or brushed over with warm butter ; make a pretty border round each, 
either with a pastry marker or knife, garnish the top of each piece with 
any nice dried fruits or small mixed sweets, and bake in a moderate 
oven for fifteen to twenty minutes till a nice pale golden colour, and 
serve for tea, dessert, &c. The shortbread will keep a week or two if 
placed in a tin box and kept covered. 



OF EXTRA RECIPES BUNS, BREADS, CAKES, ETC. 577 



G-risini Biscuits 

Take half a pound of fine flour, rub it through a wire sieve, and 
put it into a basin ; add to it a pinch of salt and half an ounce of butter, 
rub the butter into the flour until it is quite smooth ; put in another basin 
rather better than a quarter-pint of tepid milk and water, and mix with 
it half an ounce of good German yeast until quite smooth ; add this to 
the flour, and knead it up lightly into a nice smooth dough, then cover 
over the basin with a clean cloth and stand it in a warm place to rise for 
about one and a half hours, and when well risen turn it out of the basin 
and cut it across in slices, then into thin strips ; dust the slab with a 
little flour, and with the hand roll out the pieces into lengths of about 
nine inches and a quarter of an inch in diameter ; place these on a 
lightly floured baking-tin and bake them in a moderate oven for about 
one hour, until they are a deep fawn colour and perfectly crisp, so that 
they snap when broken. These can always be kept ready for use, and 
are nice to serve for dinner or luncheon, in the cheese course, or other- 
wise. 

Geneva Rolls 

Put into a basin one pound of fine flour, a teaspoonful of salt, and 
half an ounce of castor sugar ; rub three ounces of butter into it till 
smooth, then mix into it one ounce of German yeast, three well-beaten 
raw eggs, and one and a half gills of tepid milk ; knead into a light 
dough, clean the basin round, sprinkle over the dough a little fine flour, 
cover it with a cloth, and set it to rise in a warm place for two and 
a half hours ; then turn out on a table or slab, make up into little balls 
or long shapes, put these into well-buttered roll tins, and set again to 
rise in a warm place for about half an hour ; then brush over with a 
little golden syrup, and bake them in a quick oven for about twenty 
minutes, when they should be a nice golden colour ; when cooked take 
up and serve for breakfast or tea, hot or cold. 



Almond Fingers 

Mix two ounces of ground or very finely-chopped almonds with three 
ounces of Marshall's Icing Sugar, a few drops of vanilla essence, one 
ounce of sponge cake crumbs, one and a half raw whites of egg ; make 
the mixture into a stiff paste, then roll up into the form of fingers, using 
a little icing sugar for the purpose. Make some baking-tins warm, 

p P 



578 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

and then rub them over with white wax, and put a piece of foolscap 
paper on the tin while the wax is warm and so grease the paper, then 
set aside till cold, and place the fingers on it, dust them over with some 
icing sugar, using a dredger for the purpose ; put into a moderate oven 
and bake for about half an hour, when the fingers should be a nice 
brown colour ; take up and set aside till cold, serve on a dish-paper, for 
dessert, &c. 

Cocoanut Drops 

Put into a basin six ounces of good butter, and work it till like a 
cream, with half a grated nutmeg and half a stick of vanilla that has 
been pounded and passed through a hair sieve ; then add three-quarters 
of a pound of castor sugar and work together for about ten minutes, 
after which add six raw yolks of eggs and work for another ten minutes. 
Whip the whites of six eggs very stiff with a pinch of salt ; have one 
pound of fine flour, sifted and warmed, and add these to the other 
mixtures by degrees, in the proportion of one white to two large table- 
spoonfuls of the flour ; put the mixture into a bag with a forcing pipe, 
and force on to slightly greased foolscap paper into any desired shapes ; 
sprinkle with desiccated cocoanut and dredge with icing sugar, bake in 
a moderate oven till a pretty fawn colour ; serve for dessert, tea, &c. 

Marchpane of Apricots 
Mnxsepain d'Abricots 

Put one pound of Jordan almonds into a stewpan with sufficient cold 
water to cover them ; bring this to the boil, then strain and rinse the 
almonds in cold water ; rub them in a clean cloth to take off the skins, 
then pound them into a perfectly smooth paste. Add three-quarters of 
a pound of loaf sugar to six ounces of water and boil to the crack (that 
is, when the sugar is quite brittle and will snap if a portion is first 
dipped into cold water) ; when ready, mix this very quickly in a 
mortar with the almond paste and half a pot of apricot jam, add a 
saltspoonful of Marshall's Apricot Yellow, and about twenty drops of 
vanilla essence ; pound the mixture well and leave it till somewhat cool, 
then turn it on to a lightly-oiled pastry slab, sprinkle it with Marshall's 
Creme de Eiz, and roll it out in thickness about half an inch ; then cut it 
out in shapes with any fancy cutter. Place these on a baking-tin on a 
sheet of oiled kitchen paper, put another paper on the top, and stand 
them in a screen or warm place until quite dry ; mask with Maraschino 
glace (vol. i.), and sprinkle them lightly with finely-chopped pistachio 



OF EXTRA RECIPES BUNS, BREADS, CAKES, ETC. 579 

nuts. When ready to serve, dish them up in a pile and serve for a 
dessert dish or for a cold collation. They are also excellent for serving 
with iced souffles, &c. 

Nougat in Cases 

Put into a stewpan one tablespoonful of strained lemon juice and a 
quarter of a pound of castor sugar, and boil these together till a nice 
brown colour ; then mix in a quarter of a pound of blanched and finely- 
chopped almonds that have been baked a nice golden colour, boil up 
together, stirring continually, then turn the mixture out on to a lightly 
oiled slab or board ; cut the nougat into small pieces about the size of a 
Spanish nut, roll them up and leave them till cool, then glaze each over 
with Maraschino glace (vol. i.j, and when tin's is set put each into a 
little paper case, and serve for dessert, &c. 



Vienna Queens 

Mix half a pound of finely -chopped dried cocoanut with three whole 
raw eggs, one tablespoonful of orange-Howe r water, a saltspoonful of 
vanilla essence, two ounces of Marshall's Creme de Riz, two ounces of fine 
flour, four ounces of icing sugar, six or eight drops of carmine, three 
ounces of fresh butter that has been worked to a creamy consistency, 
and three ounces of ratafia biscuit crumbs ; mix well all together till 
quite smooth, then put the mixture into any little moulds, such as 
walnut moulds, that have been brushed over with warm butter, then 
dusted over with fine flour and castor sugar mixed together in equal 
quantities. Place these on a baking-tin, and bake in a moderate oven 
for fifteen to twenty minutes ; when cool, turn them out and glaze them 
over with Maraschino or Noyeau glace (vol. i.) ; leave till cool, and serve 
for dessert, &c. 



p p 2 



580 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 






CHAPTER XVI 

JAMS, PRESERVES, COMPOTES, AND MAOEDOINES OF 

FRUITS 

Apple Marmalade 

Put into a stewpan one pound of finely-sliced peeled apples, a quarter 
of a pint of water, one ounce of butter, the finely-cut peel of half a 
lemon, a strip of cinnamon about a quarter of an inch long, two bay- 
leaves and two ounces of castor sugar ; boil these together till they 
are of a pulpy consistence, then rub it through a sieve, mix with it a 
dessertspoonful of orange-flower water, and a tablespoonful of apricot 
jam or marmalade, and use for centre of fleurs and tartlets, or it may be 
served in a compote dish for a dinner or luncheon sweet. 

Banana Puree 

Pound four or five fresh bananas with one and a half ounces of 
castor sugar, the juice and pulp of two oranges, and three tablespoon fuls 
of thick apricot jam, colour with a few drops of carmine and a little 
apricot yellow ; then rub through a fine hair sieve, warm in the bain- 
marie, flavour with a tablespoonful of Maraschino, the same of brandy, 
and use for cakes and puddings ; this can also be used ice-cold. 

Black- Currant Jam 

Take equal quantities of good picked fruit and loaf sugar, and boil the 
fruit first with two tablespoonfuls of water to each pound of fruit ; keep it 
skimmed till quite clear and bright, and boil for twenty minutes, then 
add the sugar, and stir it occasionally to keep it from burning ; continue 
the boiling and skimming for twenty-five minutes to half an hour, then 
put into dry clean jars, and cover over when cold with foolscap paper 
steeped in brandy, and tie downwith brown paper or bladder, and 
store away in a cool, dry place. 



OF EXTRA RECIPES JAMS, PRESERVES, COMPOTES, ETC. 581 

Red or White -Currant Jams 

Take equal quantities of fruit and preserving sugar, and boil 
together for thirty minutes, keeping it stirred and skimmed. If using 
less sugar, say three-quarters of a pound to the pound of fruit, it must 
be well reduced that is, to boil say for twenty minutes longer or it 
will not keep ; put it into clean, dry jars and cover down with papers in 
the usual way, and store in a cold, dry place till wanted. 

Carrot Jam 

Take some small freshly-gathered young carrots, cleanse, scrape and 
wash them well, then plunge them into boiling water coloured with 
carmine, and cook till perfectly tender ; drain them on a sieve, and then 
rub them through a wire sieve ; weigh the pulp, and for each pound of 
carrot allow one pound of loaf sugar, the finely-chopped peel of one 
lemon, the strained juice from the same, and as much ground cinnamon 
as will cover a sixpenny-piece ; boil well for half an hour, keeping it well 
skimmed, then put into dry jars, and leave till cool ; then cover over the 
jars, and finish and store as usual. 

Carrot Ginger 

Take some fresh young carrots, well wash and then blanch them, 
clear them of skin, cut them into two-inch lengths (or, if small, leave 
them whole), put them again into a stewpan with enough cold water to 
cover them, bring to the boil, then turn out on to a sieve, and let them 
drain till the following day. Then put them into their own weight of 
ginger syrup, and simmer them on the side of the stove for two or three 
hours ; then set away till cool, and put into jars with enough of the 
syrup to cover them ; tie down the jars with damp bladders. Use for 
dessert, ice puddings, or other sweets, with cream, &c. 

Ginger Syrup for Carrot Ginger. To each pint of water put 
fourteen ounces of loaf sugar and a teaspoonful of ground ginger, colour 
with carmine, boil down to half the quantity, then use. 

Compote of Cherries for Hot Entrees, &c. 

Stone the cherries, take out the kernels ; to one pound add one 
ounce of castor sugar, a little carmine, half a pint of claret. Cook for 
thirty to forty minutes, till the liquor is reduced to a creamy consistency, 
then use. 



582 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 



Compote of Cherries for Cold Entrees, &c. 

If using fresh cherries, stone them and crack the nuts, and take out 
the kernels ; mix each pound of cherries with a teaspoonful of salad oil, 
a few drops of tarragon vinegar, and a pinch of castor sugar ; add a 
tablespoonful of tarragon and chervil that are picked in tiny pieces, 
and leave them on ice till ready to use. If using preserved cherries, the 
uncrystallised are the best. 



Compote of Cherries for Sweets 

For half a pint of uncrystallised or fresh-stoned cherries, take half a 
pint of claret, two tablespoonfuls of red-currant jelly, the peel of one 
lemon, tied together with a piece of cinnamon about one inch in length, 
and two ounces of castor sugar ; put these into a stewpan, and boil till 
the liquor is reduced to half the original quantity, remove the lemon- 
peel and cinnamon, and colour the remainder with a little liquid 
carmine, set it aside on ice till wanted, then add to it a wineglassful of 
Kirsch liqueur, and use for a dinner or luncheon dish, or for garnishing 
hot or cold puddings. 

Cherry Jam 

Take some ripe cherries (Kentish preferred), stone them and weigh 
them, and to each pound of fruit allow one pound of finely-crushed 
preserving sugar (a gill of red-currant or strawberry juice that has been 
rubbed through a sieve can be added if liked). Boil the sugar, juice, 
and kernels of the stones altogether, stirring them occasionally, for about 
twelve to fifteen minutes; then add the fruit, and boil together quickly 
for thirty to thirty-five minutes, keeping it well skimmed while cooking. 
Put into clean dry jars, and when cool cover with papers that are steeped 
in brandy before placing on the jam. Tie the jars down tightly with 
paper or bladder, and put away in a cool dry place. 

Brandy Cherries 

Gather the cherries when ripe and in perfectly dry weather, and 
when quite fresh wipe each cherry with a clean soft cloth, and cut the 
stalks, leaving them about one inch long on the fruit. Then fill somes 
wide-necked bottles three parts fuH, allow for each pound of cherries 
four ounces of castor sugar and four or five cloves, and put into the 



OF EXTRA RECIPES JAMS, PRESERVES, OOMPOTES, ETC. 583 

bottles with the fruit and fill up the bottles with good French brandy ; 
firmly cork them and seal them, and keep them in a cool place for six 
or eight weeks, when they will be ready for use. 



Crab-Apple Cheese 

Take some freshly-gathered crab-apples, put them in a jar and cover 
it closely, then stand it in a tin containing boiling water in the oven ; 
let it boil in this way for about twenty minutes, then add about one 
pint of boiling water to each two pounds of crabs and let them continue 
boiling until tender, adding about a pint of water during the cooking ; 
when the apples are tender, which will be in about three and a half to 
four hours, rub them with the liquor through a hair sieve, then weigh 
the pulp, and to each pound of it add a pound of crushed loaf sugar ; 
boil together very gently for one and a half hours, keeping well skimmed ; 
when the pulp is sufficiently boiled it will stick to the spoon and be 
like a jelly if allowed to cool. Pour it into a clean, dry, china mould, 
and when cool put on the top a piece of foolscap paper that has been 
steeped in brandy, tie down and keep in cool place till wanted. 



Bottled Crab -Apples 

Rub the crab-apples over carefully with a clean dry cloth, and prick 
each over with a needle to prevent them bursting. Put into a stewpan 
one pint of water, two pounds of loaf sugar, about sixteen cloves, and 
quarter-ounce of whole ginger ; boil these all together for about fifteen 
minutes, keeping skimmed while boiling, then strain, reboil, and add to 
it about a quart of the crab-apples ; bring again to the boil, then take up 
and drain on a hair sieve, and leave them till cold. Repeat this process 
three times, and at the finish leave them to get cool, when they should 
be put into jars or bottles that are quite clean and dry ; add to each jar 
sufficient syrup to cover the apples ; tie the jars down with bladders, and 
leave them in a cool dry place till wanted. The crab-apples thus pre- 
pared are good for tarts, creams, or dessert. 



Preserved Damsons 

That fruit is the best for preserving which has been gathered while 
the sun was on it and when the weather has been dry for a few days 
previously ; the fruit should be perfectly ripe. For each quart of fruit 



584 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

allow half a pound of the best loaf sugar ; put the fruit into jars which 
are quite dry, sprinkle the sugar in, stand the jars in a pan containing 
cold water, place a little straw between the jars, stand the pan over a 
moderate fire, let the water come gently to the boil, and let it remain 
on the stove for about one hour. Remove the pan, and leave the jars 
as they are till quite cold ; strain off the liquor, and boil for fifteen or 
twenty minutes, then pour on to the fruit ; when cold cover over with 
bladder, and keep in a cool dry place. If liked, the stones can be 
removed before cooking. 

Fruits a la Sue"doise 

Take one quart of mixed fresh fruits, such as strawberries, rasp- 
berries, currants, cherries, and gooseberries, pound them to a pulp, and 
add to them one wineglassful of brandy, one of rum, one of Maraschino, 
and one of Noyeau, and the juice of six lemons. Put the peel of the 
lemons into a stewpan with half a pound of loaf sugar, pour over it one 
pint of boiling water, and let it remain till cold; then add it to the 
other ingredients, colour with a little carmine, tammy it, and when cold 
put it in the charged ice-machine and freeze it. Dish up in a pile, 
entirely cover it with a cold macedoine of fruits, and serve in a bowl or 
deep dish for dinner after the remove or for a sweet, in which case some 
fancy cakes should be handed with it- 



Fruits Bottled without Sugar 

Pick the fruit when quite dry and ripe, free it from stalks, and 
arrange it in wide-necked bottles (which should be carefully dried), 
giving the fruit an occasional shake so that the bottles may be well 
filled, and cork down lightly. Take a large pan containing boiling 
water and stand the bottles in it so as to partly cover them, place some 
hay between each bottle (taking care that the corks do not get wet or the 
fruit will not keep) ; then stand the pan in a very moderate oven or on 
the side of the stove for three and a half to four hours, and set aside 
till cold ; then take up and knock the corks in tightly, and tie them 
down with bladder or leather. Keep in a dry cool place till wanted. 



Macedoine of Fruits in Syrup 

Put twelve ounces of loaf sugar' to boil with a pint and a half of 
water until it reaches the consistency of cream, then strain it and mix 



OF EXTRA RECIPES JAMS, PRESERVES, COMPOTES, ETC. 585 

with it a tablespoonful of Noyeau or Maraschino syrup, one table- 
spoonful of brandy, colour with a little liquid carmine ; then add a pint 
and a half of ripe picked fruits, such as strawberries and cherries 
stoned, slices of pineapple and melon, skinned and stoned grapes, and 
sliced peaches and apricots ; leave on ice till wanted, then serve in a 
pile. This macedoine can be served for a sweet for dinner or luncheon, 
either plain or with custard or with frozen or whipped cream or ice. 



Macedoine of Fruits, Hot 

Take any kind of fresh ripe or prepared fruits, such as stoned cherries 
and their kernels, slices of apricots, peaches, picked strawberries (if 
large cut them into halves), grapes, currants, &c. ; mix with a little 
liqueur, such as Maraschino, ICirsch, or Noyeau, colour with a few drops of 
Marshall's Liquid Carmine, make hot in the bain-marie, and use for 
garnishing hot cakes or puddings, or serve as a separate dish for luncheon 
or dinner. 

Macedoine of Fruits, Cold 

Take any nice fresh raw ripe fruits, such as strawberries and 
cherries (that have been cut in halves, and the kernels removed and 
thrown in), and grapes that have been skinned and freed from pips ; 
mix well with Noyeau liqueur, sweeten with a little castor sugar, colour 
with a little carmine, set on ice till perfectly cold, and use as a garnish or 
for a separate dish for dinner or luncheon. 



Ginger Brandy 

Crush some white root ginger thoroughly in a mortar, then lay it in a 
jar with the best loaf sugar, and the thinly-pared rind of a lemon ; add the 
brandy, and let it all steep together for about a week, according to the 
strength of the ginger flavour desired ; stir occasionally, and then strain 
and bottle for use. The proportions are one ounce of ginger, one 
pound of sugar, and the peel of one large lemon to each two and a half 
pints of brandy. 

Preserved Greengages 

Choose large greengages, when they begin to soften ; split them in 
halves, without peeling them ; remove the stones, then weigh an equal 
quantity of castor sugar and sprinkle half of it over the fruit ; leave it in 



586 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

a cool place till the next day ; crack the stones and take out the kernels 
and skin them ; drain the syrup from the fruit the next day and boil it 
up with the remaining sugar ; let it boil gently for about ten or twelve 
minutes, keeping it well skimmed ; add the fruit and the kernels and let it 
simmer, keeping it well skimmed till clear ; put it into jars, leave till the 
next day, and then cut round pieces of foolscap paper to fit the jars ; steep 
these in brandy and place them on the fruit ; cover the jars over with 
bladder, and tie down and store away. 



Greengages in Brandy 

The fruit should not be over-ripe, but must be quite sound ; allow 
ten ounces of sugar to each pound of fruit ; boil the sugar with a quarter 
of a pint of water to each pound, and when dissolved pour it, quite 
boiling, on the fruit ; let the fruit remain in this syrup for two days, 
then boil them very carefully till they are clear and not broken (this 
will take about twenty minutes) ; take them from the pan with a slice 
or spoon and put them in wide-mouthed bottles ; boil the syrup up 
again for ten minutes, let it cool, then add an equal quantity of good 
brandy ; let it cool and then fill up the bottles ; cover the bottles with 
bladder and keep in a cool dry place. 



Gooseberry Jam 

Take the berries quite ripe and when fresh gathered and dry, pick 
off the stalks and weigh them, and for each pound take a pound of good 
loaf sugar crushed up small and a gill of water ; stir together in a 
preserving pan till boiling, then simmer for thirty to forty minutes, 
during which time keep skimmed and stirred ; pour into clean jars when 
cooked and set aside till cold, then cover over with brandied foolscap paper, 
and tie down with bladder or thick paper. Store away in a cool dry 
place till wanted for use ; yellow or red berries can be used in the same 
way. 

Gooseberry Jelly 

Take some ripe gooseberries, remove the tops and stalks, then put 
them into a saucepan, and to each six pounds of fruit add two pounds 
of currant juice ; place the pan in a bain-marie on the stove till the 
fruit is hot and bursts open, then" strain the juice through a sieve. 
When the juice has run from the fruit, weigh it and boil it quickly for 



OF EXTRA RECIPES JAMS, PRESERVES, COMPOTES, ETC. 587 

half an hour, adding to each four pounds of the juice three and a half 
pounds of crushed loaf sugar ; stir together till the sugar has dissolved, 
then boil for thirty minutes, stirring and keeping it skimmed while 
boiling ; when ready, pour it into clean dry jars or china moulds and 
leave till cold ; then cover, tie down as usual, and keep in a cool dry 
place till wanted for use. 

Marrow Jam 

Take some nice fresh young vegetable marrows, peel and remove the 
seeds and cat them into quarters, then put them into a stewpan with 
enough cold water to cover them, and just bring to the boil ; then strain 
them and rinse them in cold water, and put them again into boiling- 
water and let them cook for fifteen minutes ; strain them and press them 
till dry, then rub them through a coarse wire sieve. Take some sour 
apples, peel, slice, and boil them, and for each pound of apples allow 
the strained juice of one lemon, and boil them to a pulp. Then weigh 
the marrow pulp, and to each pound allow a quarter-pound of the apples, 
one pound of loaf sugar, the finely-chopped peel of a lemon, and four 
cloves ; the cloves should be tied up in a piece of muslin and taken out 
when the jam is cooked. Put the jam into a clean stewpan and boil for 
half an hour, then add a few drops of liquid carmine to improve the 
colour ; finish and store as usual. 

Vegetable Marrow Marmalade 

Take some freshly-gathered young marrows, remove the peel and 
seeds, and cut into fine slices ; then to each pound of marrow put a 
quarter-pound of syrup, as below, and let them remain until the next 
day ; then drain off, and for each pound of marrow take one pound of 
loaf sugar, the peel and strained juice of two lemons, and a quarter of 
an ounce of ground ginger ; put these into a clean stewpan and boil for 
fifty to sixty minutes, keeping it well skimmed while boiling, then to 
each quart of pulp add a wineglassful of brandy ; reboil for fifteen 
minutes, then put into jars, and when cool cover and store as usual. 

Syrup for Steeping Marrow. Boil three pounds of brown sugar 
with two quarts of water for three-quarters of an hour ; let it get cool 
before using. 

Transparent Orange Marmalade 

Take some very pale Seville oranges and cut them into quarters, 
take out the pulp and put it in a basin, removing the pips and white 



588 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

part ; put the peels into slightly salted cold water and leave them to soak all 
night, then boil them in a good quantity of water, enough to cover them, 
till tender ; then take up and when cool cut up into fine Julienne shreds 
and add to the pulp. To each pound of fruit take one and a half pounds 
of castor sugar and boil together in a clean pan for half an hour, keeping it 
stirred gently ; when cooked put into clean dry jars and finish as usual. 



Orange Puree 

Take three large or four small oranges, press all the juice and pulp 
from them and rub it through a sieve, and mix it with two tablespoon fu Is 
of orange-flower water ; put four raw yolks of eggs into a basin, and 
work together with a wooden spoon for about five minutes ; then add 
the pulp and three ounces of castor sugar and two whites of eggs 
which have been whipped stiff with a tiny pinch of salt, and well mix 
the whole. Melt one and a half ounces of butter in a stewpan, then 
pour in the above mixture and keep it carefully moved about the bottom 
of the pan with a small wooden spoon over the fire for two or three 
minutes ; when it begins to get thick, tip it carefully on to the dish on 
which it is to be served ; sprinkle it with a little coloured sugar or 
shredded pistachio nuts. This dish can be served hot or cold, either as 
a dinner or luncheon sweet. 

Compote of Pears 

Peel two or three large stewing pears and cut them into quarters, 
remove the cores, then cut them in slices about one-eighth of an inch 
thick and one inch and a quarter long ; put them into a stewpan with a 
dessertspoonful of red currant jelly, half a pint of claret, half an ounce 
of castor sugar, and a few drops of Marshall's Liquid Carmine, and boil 
till tender ; then strain the fruit from the liquor, reduce the latter to a 
creamy consistency, then add again to the pears, and use as garnish for 
entrees of meats or birds. 

Bottled Peaches 

Take some ripe sound peaches, peel them and split them in halves, 
remove the stones and put the fruit into large clean dry bottles, then 
cover them entirely with thick clear syrup, as below, nearly filling the 
bottles; then cork the bottles, tie them down, bind them round and 
round with hay to prevent them touching each other, and place them in 
a very deep stewpan that will hold enough water to reach the tops of the 



OF EXTRA RECIPES JAMS, PRESERVES, COMPOTES, ETC. 589 

bottles ; put the pan on the stove and pour in enough cold water to 
reach the necks of the bottles, bring the water steadily to the boil and 
let it simmer on for sixty minutes, then remove the pan from the stove 
and let the bottles remain in it till the next day ; then take them from 
the water, wipe them, wax the corks over, and keep in a cool dry place 
till wanted. 

Syrup for Peaches. Boil eighteen ounces of loaf sugar in four 
gills of water for fifteen minutes, then strain and use. 



Pineapple Chips 

Take a perfectly ripe sound pine for this purpose, carefully remove 
all the peel with a sharp-pointed knife and clear all the pips out, cut the 
fruit into four pieces straight clown (or it can be left whole if preferred) ; 
cut it into slices about a quarter-inch thick, and lay it out without 
bruising on a dish. Take rather better than half the weight of the fruit 
in finely-powdered castor sugar, sprinkle the pineapple well with it and 
let it remain until the following day till a juice forms ; then put all together 
into a very clean preserving pan, and steadily boil till the fruit is quite 
bright looking (which will take about half an hour), remove the scum as it 
rises ; take the pan from the tire and set aside in the syrup till next day 
when the fruit should be put on sieves in the screen or cool oven till dry. 
Put away in boxes in a dry place, placing between each layer a sheet of 
wafer or tine foolscap paper. The syrup can* be used for ices or puddings. 



Pineapple Marmalade 

Take some sound not over-ripe pineapples, peel and core them, re- 
moving all the eyes, chop or pound them into a puree or fine pulp, weigh 
the puree and put it in a clean preserving pan and stir it till boiling ; 
then add the same weight of castor sugar and the very finely chopped 
peel of one lemon to the pound of fruit ; boil together for half an hour, 
during which time stir the mixture frequently and keep the scum 
cleared off; pour into clean pots or jars, and when cool cover over and 
finish and store as usual. 

Pineapple Jani 

Take some sound but fully-ripe pineapples and peel them, also take 
out all the eyes, cut each pine lengthwise into four pieces, then cut it 
up into very fine slices ; weigh the fruit after it has been prepared and 



590 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

ready for use, then weigh an equal quantity of the best loaf sugar ; put the 
sugar into a clean preserving pan with half a gill of water to each pound 
of sugar and a teaspoonful of strained lemon juice, and boil into a syrup ; 
remove any skim with a clean iron spoon, then add the fruit and boil 
together for forty minutes, stirring frequently and skimming well. 
When cooked put into clean jars and cover with brandied paper ; when 
cold cover the top of the jars with bladder or paper and store away in a 
cool dry place till wanted. 

Plum Jam 

Take the plums freshly gathered ; if large ones are used cut them in 
halves, remove the stones ; for one pound of the fruit take three-quarters of 
a pound of preserving sugar and one table-spoonful of water ; boil in a 
clean thick pan for about half an hour, keeping well stirred and skimmed 
while cooking ; put into clean jars, and when cool cover with brandied 
paper and tie down with bladder or thick paper ; store in a cool dry place 
till wanted for use. The kernels may be added to the jam if time allows 
for preparing them, and should be boiled with the jam ; they greatly im- 
prove the flavour of the preserve. 

Compote of French Plums 

Cook two dozen French plums in half a pint of claret and an ounce 
of castor sugar to the consistency of thick cream ; put aside on ice till 
wanted. These are nice to serve for a sweet for luncheon or with cutlets 
of mutton, venison, or roast meats. 



Raspberry and Bed Currant Jam 

Take some freshly-gathered fruits that are picked in dry weather, 
free them from stems ; take six ounces of raspberries to one pound of 
currants and fourteen ounces of loaf sugar, put into a preserving pan 
and boil for about forty minutes, stirring frequently and keeping 
skimmed while boiling ; then when cooked put into jars and leave till 
cold ; cover the top with brandied papers, and then tie down and store 
away in a cool dry place till wanted. 

Compote of Rhubarb 

Take some nice young rhubarb, wash it well, and cut it into lengths 
of about two inches. Prepare the syrup thus : Put six ounces of loaf 



OF EXTRA RECIPES JAMS, PRESERVES, COMPOTES, ETC. 591 

sugar, one gill and a half of water, and a few drops of liquid carmine 
into a stewpan ; bring it to the boil, add the rhubarb, and cook till 
tender ; then remove it and boil the syrup down to the consistency of 
thick cream, strain, add the cooked rhubarb, and when cool use for com- 
pote or for garnishing tartlets, fleurs, &c. 



Bottled Strawberries 

Gather the strawberries when the weather is quite dry and the fruit 
not too ripe, carefully remove all the stalks and leaves, taking care to 
handle them as little as possible ; then put them into a wide-necked 
bottle which is thoroughly dry and cover them with syrup that is made 
by boiling one pound of loaf sugar with half a pint of water for about 
fifteen minutes until the syrup ^ is thirty-eight degrees; let the syrup 
get cold, and then try its strength with the saccharometer. Cork the 
bottles down and stand them in a large pan, place some straw or hay 
between the bottles, and pour sufficient cold water into the pan to come 
up to the neck of the bottles, and stand it on the side of the stove and 
let it just come to the boil ; then remove the pan from the stove and let 
the bottles remain in the water till cold. See that the corks are well 
closed in the bottles, and cover them over with bladders that are wetted 
with spirit on the side nearest the cork, and keep in a cool dry place 
till wanted. Fruits bottled like this are nice for ices or for a compote 
of fruits with sweets. , 

Strawberry Jam, No. 1 

Pick the fruit when quite ripe, and in perfectly dry weather; pound 
or crush them, and add the juice from any other ripe strawberries, cur- 
rants, &c, if you have plenty of fruit ; then weigh the pulp and juice, and 
mix with it its weight of crushed preserving sugar, and boil gently together 
for half an hour, keeping it skimmed and stirred whilst cooking ; then 
pour it into jars, and when cool cover the tops of the jam with papers 
which have been wetted with brandy, and tie another paper or bladder 
over the top of the jar, and put away in a cool place until wanted. 



Strawberry Jam, JSTo. 2 

Gather the fruit when quite dry and ripe, reject any unsound fruit, 
pick off the stalks, weigh the berries, and to each pound of the fruit 
take fourteen ounces of lightly-crushed loaf sugar; arrange the fruit 



592 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY ROOK 

and sugar in the preserving pan in alternate layers, stand the pan on 
the side of the stove, and as the scum rises keep it well removed ; let it 
boil on gently for half an hour, take the pan from the fire, and when 
the jam is somewhat cool pour it into jars and cover down as in the last 
recipe. 

Strawberry Jam, No. 3 

Take three-quarters of a pound of crushed loaf sugar to each pound 
of dry picked fruit, bring it to the boil, keep it well skimmed, but do 
not let it boil fast or it will crush the fruit ; continue boiling for about 
thirty minutes, when, if on taking up it sets nicely, it is ready to be put 
in the jars ; cover over with papers dipped in brandy, and finish as usual. 



Strawberry Parisian Salad 

Remove the stalks from two pounds of raw ripe freshly-gathered 
strawberries, and if the fruit is large cut each strawberry into quarters ; 
put them into a basin, season them with castor sugar, a wineglassful of 
brandy, a tablespoonful of strained lemon juice, and a few drops ot 
carmine, and set on crushed ice till quite cold. Dish up in a pile, and 
serve for luncheon, &c. Cream whipped or frozen and flavoured with 
vanilla essence and sweetened with castor sugar can be handed with 
the salad if liked. 

Tomato Cheese 

Take some ripe fresh-gathered tomatoes, and wipe them dry with a 
clean soft cloth ; remove the seeds and cut them into thin slices ; then 
rub them through a fine hair or wire sieve, weigh the puree, and to each 
pound add the strained juice of two lemons and one and a half pounds 
of loaf sugar, a tablespoonful of good brandy, a pinch of ground cinna- 
mon ; colour with carmine, boil together for one and a half hours, then 
pour into jars, leave till set, then cover them over with papers dipped in 
brandy, tie down, and keep in a cool dry place. 

Tomato Jam 

Take seven pounds of tomatoes that are not over-ripe and that are 
gathered when the weather is quite fine and dry ; remove the core, and 
wipe them carefully with a clean soft cloth ; then cut them into thin 
slices, plunge them into the quantity of syrup prepared as below, bring 



OF EXTRA RECIPES JAMS, PRESERVES, COMPOTES, ETC. 593 

to the boil over a quick fire, and boil for forty-five to fifty minutes. 
Then turn all out into a basin, and to each two quarts of the pulp add 
one and a half pounds of loaf sugar, the peel of three lemons finely 
chopped, and put into a pan and boil for one and a half hours, keeping 
well skimmed and stirred while boiling ; a little of Marshall's Liquid 
Carmine will improve the colour ; then pour into jars and leave till cool ; 
cover and store as usual. 

Syrup for Tomato Jam. Boil five pounds of loaf sugar, the strained 
juice of eight lemons, and the finely-chopped peel of same, two ounces 
of ground ginger, and six bayleaves for ten minutes ; take out the 
bayleaves before the fruit is put in. 



Pickled Plums 

Take eight pounds of loaf sugar, half an ounce of whole cinnamon, 
a quarter-ounce of cloves, six blades of whole mace, twelve bayleaves ; 
put these on the stove with four quarts of malt vinegar, colour a deep 
red colour with Marshall's Liquid Carmine, put on the stove and boil 
for about one hour, during which time keep skimmed ; then strain while 
in a boiling state on to twelve pounds of damson plums, that have been 
gathered in dry weather and not over-ripe, and freed from stalks. Put 
into jars and tie down, and leave for three or four weeks at least before 
using, then eat with meats and poultry. 

Crystallised Violets 

Take some double violets that have been picked when quite dry, and 
clip the stalks off close to the flower. Have some loaf sugar boiled 
to pearl (see recipe, vol. i. page 28), then throw the violets into it and 
allow the sugar to reboil ; then take up the violets on to a sieve and 
boil the sugar again until it begins to get white on the side of the pan, 
put the violets in again and reboil ; then shake them out on to a pastry 
rack or sieve and leave them to dry, when they can be stored away in 
boxes till wanted. They should be kept in a dry place. Roseflower 
leaves and primroses can be preserved in the same way. 



Q Q 



594 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 



CHAPTER XVII 

PICKLES AND PRESERVES OF VEGETABLES 
AND MEATS 

Carrots Pickled 

Wash in cold water some freshly-gathered young carrots, and put 
them into a stewpan with enough cold water to cover them ; season 
with salt and bring them gently to the boil, then strain and rinse 
them in cold water and drain them on a sieve ; take small quantities 
at a time and rub them very carefully in a clean soft cloth so as to 
remove the skins. Boil together in a covered pan for half an hour two 
quarts of French vinegar, one ounce of whole black and white pepper- 
corns, twelve pounded red chillies, six blades of mace, a quarter of an 
ounce of cloves, two ounces of whole allspice, and six small bruised 
eschalots, then set aside to cool; strain the vinegar from the spices, 
reboil it, and plunge the carrots into it and let them simmer for half an 
hour, when they should be tender to ascertain this prick them with a 
needle if not sufficiently tender cook them a little longer ; put them on 
one side till cool, then put them into perfectly clean wide-mouthed jars or 
bottles, cork them up tightly, put the bottles into a stewpan, surround 
them with straw or hay, fill the pan with water to about three-parts the 
depth of the bottles, and bring slowly to the boil ; then take them out 
and leave the bottles as they are till cold ; dry them, seal them down 
with wax, and store away in a cool place till wanted. 

Vegetable Marrow Pickle 

Take some perfectly young marrows that are gathered in dry 
weather, peel them evenly, and cut into two-inch lengths ; remove the 
seedy part and put them into sufficient cold water to cover them with 
a quarter-pound of salt to two quarts of water, just bring them to the 
boil, then drain them on a sieve. Put them into a stewpan with sufficient 
French vinegar to cover them, and. to each quart of vinegar allow one 
ounce of whole ginger, one ounce of whole black and white pepper- 



OF EXTRA RECIPES PICKLES AND PRESERVES 595 

corns, six blades of mace, and a dessertspoonful of whole allspice, eight 
or ten fresh bayleaves, a dessertspoonful of turmeric, twelve pounded 
red chillies, a stick of freshly-grated horseradish, and six pounded 
eschalots ; boil all together for a quarter of an hour, then take up the 
marrow on a dish, and leave till somewhat cool ; let the vinegar boil 
for another half-hour, and set aside till cool. Place the marrow in 
jars, pour the strained vinegar over, tie down with a damp bladder, and 
store away in a cool dry place. The marrow may be coloured red by 
mixing a little liquid carmine with the vinegar. 



Pickled Red Cabbage 

Take the cabbage, freshly gathered after frosty weather, remove any 
tough hard outside leaves, divide the cabbage into five or six pieces, 
cutting it straight through, then shred it as finely as possible, and place 
it out in thin layers on flat dishes or trays and sprinkle with salt, 
allowing six ounces of salt to each pound of cabbage ; leave the cabbage 
with the salt for two days, during which time turn it frequently, then 
drain well on sieves, so as to let all the brine pass away from it. Take 
some perfectly clean dry jars, and put a layer of the cabbage in, about 
three inches deep, and then sprinkle it over well with black and white 
peppercorns and some crushed root ginger ; put the cabbage in layers 
thus till the jar is full, pressing it as closely as possible. Bring some 
malt vinegar to the boil and set it aside till cold, then cover the 
cabbage entirely with it, adding some of Marshall's Liquid Carmine to 
colour the vinegar and improve the appearance of the cabbage if 
desired; cork down quite tightly, then cover over with bladder, and 
store away in a cool dry place till wanted. White cabbage is excellent 
prepared in the same way. 

Piccalilli Pickle 

Take as many varieties of vegetables as possible for this, such as 
nasturtiums, cauliflowers, white-heart cabbages, small peeled button 
onions, cucumbers, radishes, gherkins, capsicums, small green tomatoes, 
Brussels sprouts, red French chillies, and lettuce stalks, &c, all in equal 
quantities ; pull the cauliflower into pieces and shred the cabbages 
finely. Prepare some brine with salt and water, which should be boiled 
together till strong enough to float a raw egg in the shell on the top. 
Throw all the vegetables into this, let them reboil, then simmer for five 
minutes, taking care that the vegetables are kept well under water ; 

, o 2 



596 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

then drain them on to a sieve, and spread them all out to become 
quite dry. Then put the vegetables into jars, and cover over entirely 
with pickle made as follows : Take two quarts of good vinegar, three 
ounces of ground ginger, two ounces of whole black aud two ounces of 
white peppercorns, two ounces of Marshall's Curry Powder, two ounces 
of whole allspice, three ounces of turmeric, six red dried pounded chillies, 
four ounces of peeled and pounded eschalots, and boil these together for 
fifteen minutes ; then mix in four ounces of good mustard that has been 
mixed with two tablespoonfuls of French mustard, and stir well in, but 
do not let it boil again after the mustard is added ; pour this over the 
vegetables in the jars, leave till cool, then cover with dainp bladders, and 
tie down tightly. These must be examined occasionally, as the vegetables 
absorb the moisture, when more vinegar must be added and the ingredi- 
ents stirred from the bottom of the jar ; other vegetables may be added 
as they come in season, but must, of course, be prepared in exactly the 
same way as above, or they will not keep. Store in a cool dry place 
till required. It should be kept at least six months before using, and 
the longer it is kept the better. 

To Cure Bacon 

Rub the flitches well with common salt for about ten minutes every 
day for a week and let them lie so that the brine may run from them, 
then rub off all the salt and put the flitches into a trough or tub and 
rub into each flitch one pound of saltpetre that has been pounded, 
warmed, and dissolved ; the day after rub in three or four pounds of com- 
mon salt ; then let it lie for a week, during which time it must be rubbed 
daily on each side ; do this for one month, and then wipe over with a 
clean dry cloth and hang them up in a dry place till required ; as soon 
as they are dry they can be used. This recipe is good for ham-curing 
also. 

Cured Hams ("Westphalia) 

Rub the ham with six ounces of pounded saltpetre for fifteen 
minutes, let it lie all day after rubbing it ; the next day boil three 
pints of strong ale with a pound of common salt, half a pound of bay 
salt, and half a pound of brown sugar, and when this is cooling pour 
it over the ham and rub it thoroughly into it, and leave the ham in it ; 
then rub it twice or thrice every day for a fortnight, turning it each day ; 
at the end of that time take out the ham and have it hung in the 
curing chimney ; if convenient, dry for three days and nights ; or in any 
dry place where there is smoke, from a wood fire would do. 



OF EXTRA RECIPES PICKLES AND PRESERVES 597 



Pickled Pork 

Cut up the pork as soon as it is cold in pieces sufficiently large to 
lie in the pickling trough ; then strew a layer of salt and a sprinkling of 
brown sugar in the trough, rub the pork over with this, and then place- 
it skin downwards with a thin layer of salt and sugar over it ; continue 
this process until the trough is full, then cover the top pieces with a 
thick layer of salt, put a board or dish on this, place a weight on the 
top of it to keep the meat under the brine, and leave it for twelve 
to fourteen days. If all the salt does not dissolve to brine, put a little 
warm water with that portion undissolved. The pork can be used any 
time after it has been in the pickle for ten days or a fortnight, and if kept 
in a cool place will keep for months ; if kept long it should be blanched 
before being boiled. 



Liquid Pickle for Beef or Tongue 

To four gallons of water add two and a half pounds of treacle, 
eight pounds of salt, and two ounces of saltpetre ; boil all together until 
quite clear, keeping it well skimmed while boiling ; sprinkle the meat 
well over with salt and rub it well in, let it lie for two days, then wipe 
it clean and put j.t into the liquid pickle, which must be quite cold, and 
allow it to remain in this for two or three .weeks. 

If this pickle is boiled up occasionally, and a good handful of salt 
added each time, it will remain good for some months. 



To Cook Cockscombs for Entrees, &c. 

Put the fresh combs in a pan with enough cold water to cover them 
with a little salt and lemon juice, bring them sharply to the boil. As 
soon as they begin to rise remove them from the fire and throw them 
into cold water (if they stay too long over the fire the blood coagulates 
and it is impossible to bleach them). Eemove the upper skin, trim 
them neatly, and lay them in salt and water for several hours, then wash 
them again well and lay them in fresh unsalted water, which should be 
changed frequently until the combs are perfectly white. Then stew 
them till tender with a little butter, strained lemon juice, salt, and white 
stock made from chicken boilings. If for garnish they should not be too 
much cooked. 



598 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

To Cook Fresh Truffles 

Put the truffles in cold water for six to eight hours, occasionally 
changing the water ; when the mud that covers them is loose, rinse it 
well from them, and scrub them well with a brush; when quite free from 
grit, peel the outer skin off very thinly with a small knife and rinse 
them again. Have a stewpan lightly buttered and place in it some 
very thinly sliced raw fat bacon (allowing half a pound of bacon to one 
pound of truffles) and a good bunch of herbs, such as thyme, parsley, 
and bayleaf ; put the truffles in the pan, then add a pint of good veal, 
chicken, or rabbit stock, and a similar quantity of sherry or Madeira 
wine, or they can, if liked, be cooked entirely in the above wine or in 
champagne. Boil for one and three-quarter hours, with the pan 
covered closely down, and longer if the truffles are large, and then serve 
hot or cold. Dish them up in a pile, and tammy the liquor in which 
they were cooked, and pour it in the dish. These can be put into bottles 
or jars if not wanted immediately. 

The peelings can be pounded with finely-chopped fat fresh pork and 
veal and used for farcing poulardes, pheasants, &c. 



OF EXTRA RECIPES GARNISHES, FARCES, PUREES, ETC. 599 



CHAPTEE XVIII 
GARNISHES, FARCES, PUREES, ICINGS, ETC. 

ASPICS AND CHATJDFROIDS 

Blocks of Aspic Mayonnaise 

Pour some Mayonnaise aspic (see recipe) into a plain mould or 
stewpan to about two inches in depth, let this set, and then dip the 
mould into warm water, turn out the Mayonnaise, and cut it into little 
oblong shapes or with a cutter, and use for garnishing cold fish, or fowl, 
meat, &c. 

Green Mayonnaise Aspic 

Take half a pint of aspic jelly, and mix with it two tablespoonfuls 
of Mayonnaise sauce (see vol. i.) and a little apple green ; tammy, and 
then pour the mixture into a baking-tin to about a quarter of an inch 
deep ; when cold cut out in rounds or other shapes, and use for 
garnishing. 

Pink and White Mayonnaise Aspic 

To each half-pint of aspic jelly add three tablespoonfuls of Mayon- 
naise sauce (vol. i.) ; colour part of it with carmine, leave the other 
part plain, tammy both separately, and use when cooling. 

Olive- Coloured Aspic 

Add some drops of Marshall's Sap Green to some aspic jelly until the 
required depth of colour is obtained ; use hot or cold. 

Chaudfroid Sauce a la Chatelaine 

Take a quarter of a pint of Bechamel sauce (vol. i.) with half a pint 
of cream, a quarter of a pint of thick Soubise sauce (vol. i.) and half 



600 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

a pint of aspic jelly ; reduce to half the quantity, add three sheets of 
Marshall's Gelatine, keeping skimmed while boiling, and then tammy 
and use when cool for masking cold cutlets,' &c. 

Bechamel Ohaudfroid Sauce 

Put into a stewpan one and a half pints of aspic jelly, half a pint 
of very thick cream, half a pint of thick Bechamel sauce (vol. i.), two 
tablespoonfuls of cooking sherry, and half an ounce of Marshall's Finest 
Leaf Gelatine ; boil up and skim, tammy, and use when cooling for 
masking turkeys, &c. 

Brown Ohaudfroid Sauce 

Put into a stewpan two or three washed fresh mushrooms, a wine- 
glassful of sherry, two sliced tomatoes, one large sliced eschalot, one 
or two bayleaves, half a pint of reduced Espagnol sauce (vol. i.), a 
pinch of castor sugar, an ounce of glaze, half a pint of strong aspic 
jelly, and four sheets of Marshall's gelatine ; boil down a quarter-part, 
keep skimmed while boiling, tammy, and use when cooling for setting 
large or small timbals, to use for garnishing fancy cold meat dishes, 
entrees, &c. 

Fawn-coloured Ohaudfroid Sauce 

Mix half a pint of aspic jelly with two tablespoonfuls of thick cream, 
a quarter of a pint of reduced Veloute sauce (vol. i.), one tablespoon- 
ful of Brown sauce (see vol. i.), and a wineglassful of sherry ; dissolve 
in it four sheets of Marshall's Leaf Gelatine, wring through a tammy 
cloth, and use for masking game or poultry. 

Mayonnaise Garnishing Sauce 

Take half a pint of thick Mayonnaise sauce (vol. i.) and mix into 
it by degrees not quite a quarter of a pint of cool liquid aspic jelly, 
stir on ice till thick, put into a forcing bag with rose pipe, and use. 
If the garnish is required red, add a few drops of Marshall's Liquid 
Carmine. 

Potato Mayonnaise Garnishing 

Cut about half a pound of potatoes out with a small pea-cutter, 
blanch and strain, and rinse in cold water, then put them in boiling 
water with a little salt and boil till tender, but do not allow them to 



OF EXTRA RECIPES GARNISHES, FAECES, PUREES, ETC. 601 

break ; when tender strain and cool, and mix with two tablespoonfuls 
of thick Mayonnaise sauce (vol. i.) and a little chopped tarragon and 
chervil, and use. 

Tomato Mayonnaise 
For serving with Vegetables, Gold Fish, <&c. 

Take four large ripe tomatoes and rub them through a fine hair sieve,, 
then mix the puree with a quarter-pint of thick Mayonnaise sauce (vol. i.), 
a few drops of carmine, a tablespoonful of tarragon vinegar, a quarter- 
pint of liquid aspic jelly (vol. i.) ; mix up together, tammy, and use. 

Masking Sauce 
For Little Coquilles of Game or Poultry 

Fry two ounces of butter and two ounces of flour a nice golden 
colour, then mix with half a gill of oyster liquor and a wineglassful of port 
or sherry, and make up the quantity to half a pint by adding a little 
liquor from a tin of mushrooms, stir this till it boils, add a dust of 
Marshall's Coralline Pepper, and the juice of one lemon, tammy, and 
use. 



FARCES 

Farce 
For Turkey or Chicken stuffed with Ox Tongue 

Take two pounds of fat and lean pork and a pound and a half of 
white meat (veal or rabbit), pound these till smooth or pass through the 
sausage machine twice, then put it into a basin and mix it with four 
wineglasses of sherry, a pinch of coralline pepper, a dessertspoonful of 
salt, and two raw whites of eggs ; work these with the hand into a smooth 
paste, and then use. The contents of a bottle of truffles can be added if 
wished , and the liquor from the same will greatly improve the farce. 

Farce 
For Cold Turkey, Fowls, dtc. 

Take, for a moderate-sized turkey, four pounds of fat and lean fresh 
loin of pork, two pounds and a half of lean fillet of veal or rabbit and 
one pound of raw ham or bacon ; cut these all up into little pieces and 
pass through the mincing machine twice, or pound in a mortar till quite 



602 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

smooth ; then add two or three wineglassfuls of sherry, one ounce of salt, 
a teaspoonful of Marshall's Coralline Pepper, and about half a pound of 
truffles, four whole raw eggs, and half a pound of blanched and peeled 
pistachio nuts ; mix all together in a basin and use. 

Plain Farce 
For Cold Turkey, Chicken, dec. 

Cut up in small pieces two pounds of lean veal or rabbit, and two 
pounds of fat and lean raw ham or pork, and pass them together twice 
through the mincing machine, or chop them up fine and pass them 
through a coarse wire sieve ; season with a little white pepper, salt, and 
coralline pepper, and use. 

Farce 

For Cold Pigeons, Partridge, &c. 

To farce one pigeon take six ounces of fresh pork or bacon and six 
ounces of white meat, and pound it till smooth, then pass it through a 
coarse wire sieve, season it with a little salt and white pepper ; flatten 
the mixture out on to a wet slab, and place in the centre of it three ounces 
of pate de foie gras cut in strips, four good-sized truffles cut up, and two 
or three button mushrooms ; roll up and use. 

Ham or Tongue Farce 
For using with Chicken, Veal, or Rabbit Farce for Moulds, dec. 

Pound till smooth six ounces of cooked lean ham or tongue, then 
pound four ounces of Panard (vol. i.), half an ounce of butter, a little 
salt and Marshall's Coralline Pepper, colour with a few drops of liquid 
carmine, add two and a half whole eggs, mix up well together, rub 
through a wire sieve and use. 

Hare Farce 

For Turbans, Cutlets, &c. 

Take twelve ounces of raw scraped hare and pound it till smooth, 
then pound eight ounces of panard separately, mix with two large table- 
spoonfuls of reduced Espagnol sauce (vol. i.). one ounce of butter, a good 
dust of Marshall's Coralline Pepper, and sufficient salt to slightly season, 
xidd to it by degrees three whole raw eggs, a few drops of liquid carmine, 
rub through a fine wire sieve and use. 



OF EXTRA RECIPES GARNISHES, FARCES, PUREES, ETC. 603 

Fish Farce 
For Border 

Pound ten ounces of raw white fish freed from skin and bone till 
quite smooth, then pound eight ounces of Panard (vol. i.), season with a 
little salt, one ounce of butter, a little white pepper; then mix together and 
add three whole eggs by degrees, and pass through a wire sieve. Butter 
the mould in which the farce is to be cooked, and sprinkle it over with 
coral, put in the farce by means of a forcing bag and a large plain pipe, 
knock it down well on the table to set firm in the mould, and poach for 
about fifteen minutes, placing it in a stewpan on" a fold of paper anil 
then covering it with boiling water ; watch the water reboil,then draw to 
the side and poach till firm. 

Fish Farce 

For 7'/Vn 

Take a pound and a half of fresh raw whiting, haddock or cod. 
twelve ounces of Panard (vol. i.), an ounce and a half of butter, a 
saltspoonful of salt, a dessertspoonful of anchovy essence, a dust of 
.Marshall's Coralline Pepper; pound the fish and panard separately 
till smooth, then mix together, add the other ingredients and seasonings, 
and work till smooth ; mix with four raw eggs and two wineglassfuls of 
white wine, and rub through a fine wire sieve and use. 



Lobster Farce 
For Fillets of Sole, Lobster, &c. 

Pound till smooth four ounces of cooked lobster, four boned anchovies, 
a teaspoonful of anchovy essence, a dust of coralline pepper, half an 
ounce of butter, four ounces of Panard (vol. i.) ; add a few drops of 
liquid carmine and two whole raw eggs, rub through a wire sieve and 
use. 

Oyster Souffle Mixture 
For Farcing Birds, &c. 

Put into a stewpan one and a half ounces of butter, one and a half 
ounces of flour, two raw yolks of eggs, and a pinch of salt and coralline 



604 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

pepper ; mix with one and a half gills of strained oyster liquor and the 
juice of a lemon ; stir over the fire till it boils, add four stiffly- whipped 
whites of eggs (that have been seasoned with a pinch of salt) and three 
dozen sauce oysters that have been bearded and cut in halves, or if 
large into four, and use for farcing chickens, turkeys, pheasants, 
partridges, &c. 



Salmon Farce 
For Turbans, Borders, or Quenelles, &c t 

Take six ounces of Panard (see vol. i.) and eight ounces of salmon, 
and pound separately till each is smooth, then mix together, add a little 
salt and coralline pepper, a few drops of carmine, one ounce of butter, 
and two and a half whole eggs, and when well amalgamated rub through 
a wire sieve and put into a buttered border mould by means of a forcing 
bag and large plain pipe ; place this in a stewpan on a piece of paper, 
cover it with boiling fish stock or water, watch this reboil, then draw the 
pan to the side of the stove and poach for about fifteen minutes, then 
turn out and use. 



PUREES 

Cheese Puree 

For Centre of Fleurs, Croustacles, &c. 

Take six ounces of finely sliced Gruyere or good Cheddar cheese, two 
tablespoonfuls of thick Bechamel sauce (vol. i.), a quarter of a pint of 
cream, and a good pinch of coralline pepper ; stir over the fire till creamy 
and then use. 



Egg Puree 

Pound two hard-boiled yolks of eggs, with two ounces of butter, 
a tablespoonful of thick Bechamel sauce, a saltspoonful of French and 
the same of English mustard, a dust of coralline pepper, six boned 
anchovies, and enough apricot yellow to colour ; then rub through a fine 
wire sieve, tammy, and use on croutons, forcing it from a bag and large- 
rose pipe, for a savoury or breakfast dish. 



OF EXTRA RECIPES GARNISHES, FARCES, PUREES, ETC. 605 

Puree of Anchovies 
For Mashing Toast or Crofitons 

Pound six boned Christiania anchovies with two hard-boiled yolks of 
eggs, a tiny dust of Marshall's Coralline Pepper, a few drops of carmine, 
half a tablespoonful of thick Bechamel sauce (vol. i.), and one ounce of 
butter ; pass through a sieve and use. 

Anchovy Puree 
For Filling Patties, Artichoke Bottoms, &c. 

Wash and bone eight or ten Christiania anchovies, and pound them 
till smooth, with two hard-boiled yolks of eggs, a tablespoonful of salad 
oil, and a few drops of carmine ; then mix with half a gill of aspic jelly, 
rub through a fine hair sieve or tammy, add two ta.bk\spoonfuls of very 
stiffly- whipped cream, and use by means of a forcing bag with a plain 
or rose pipe. 

Hot Puree of Anchovies 

For Crouton* 

Take eight or ten boned Christiania anchovies and pound them till 
smooth, with one ounce of fresh butter, three hard-boiled yolks of eggs, 
a dust of Marshall's Coralline Pepper, a few drops of liquid carmine, 
and a tablespoonful of thick Brown sauce (vol. i.) ; rub through a hair 
sieve, rewarm and use. 

Crayfish Puree 
For Croutons, S<t,vouries, Ilors d'CEuvres, &c. 

Take twelve crayfish bodies, 1 a dust of Marshall's Coralline Pepper, 
one hard-boiled yolk of egg, four ounces of good butter, six Kriiger's 
Appetit Sild, one ounce of lax, and a few drops of Marshall's Liquid 
Carmine ; pound all together till smooth, then rub through a fine hair 
sieve, and use by means of a forcing bag and rose pipe. 

Puree of Fish 
For Masking Fillets of Whiting, Sole, &c. 

Take, for eight to ten fillets of sole, six ounces of raw fresh haddock, 
whiting, or other white fish, remove the skin and bone from it, and rub 
the meat through a wire sieve ; then mix with it a pinch of salt and a 

1 These can be bought in bottles 



606 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

dust of Marshall's Coralline Pepper, one raw white of egg, a teaspoonful 
of chopped parsley, and a sprig of thyme and one bayleaf chopped ; mix 
well together, and use. 

Tongue Puree 
For Masking Cold Meats, dr. 

Pound a quarter of a pound of tongue till quite smooth ; mix it well 
into two tablespoonfuls of Bechamel sauce (vol. i.), two tablespoon fu Is 
of cream, a few drops of Marshall's Liquid Carmine, a dust of coralline 
pepper, and half a pint of liquid aspic jelly (vol. i.) ; pass the whole 
through the tammy and use. 

Puree of Haricot Beans 
For Garnishing Sweetbreads, Entrees of Meat and Birds, &c. 

Put one pound of haricot beans to soak in cold water for a day or 
two before using them, change the water often, and put them to cook in 
good-flavoured light stock, enough to well cover them, with a bunch of 
herbs and two ounces of lean ham or bacon ; let them cook for two and 
a half to three hours or longer till tender, and when almost dry rub them 
through a wire sieve, mix the puree up with a little cream to make it 
into a smooth stiff paste, add a pinch of castor sugar, make hot in the 
bain-marie, and use by means of a forcing bag and large rose pipe. 

Creamy Puree of Potatoes 

For Garnishing Centres of Fntrfcs 

Boil six or eight large potatoes, rub them through a wire sieve and 
mix with it one and a half ounces of butter and a little salt and white 
pepper ; mix with cream or new milk into a smooth paste, rewarm the 
puree in the bain-marie, and use. 

Tomato Puree 
For Masking Meats, Cutlets, Sweetbreads, etc. 

Take four or five raw ripe tomatoes, slice them and put them in a 
stewpan with one ounce of butter, the strained juice of a lemon, a little 
salt, a tiny dust of coralline pepper, a tablespoonful of good light stock ; 
boil down to a pulp, then mix with it a quarter of an ounce of arrowroot 
that is mixed with a tablespoonful of sherry, stir till boiling, tammy, 
and use. 



OF EXTRA RECIPES GARNISHES, FARCES, PUREES, ETC. 607 

Thick Puree of Tomatoes 

Take two or three large ripe tomatoes, cut them up in thin slices, 
and put them in a stewpan with a little white pepper and a pinch of 
salt ; bring them to the boil ; then add to the pulp two ounces of butter 
that has been mixed till smooth with half an ounce of Marshall's 
Creme de Biz, and stir together till the mixture boils ; add three or four 
drops of carmine and a wineglassful of white wine, then rub all through 
a tammy or fine hair sieve, re warm, and use. This puree is nice to 
serve with boiled fish, or chicken, sweetbread &c. 

Puree of Meat a la Vienne 

Take ten ounces of cooked meat, such as chicken or pheasant, and 
pound it till smooth with a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, a table- 
spoonful of thick cream, two tablespoonfuls of Veloute sauce (vol. i.), 
a tablespoonful of salad oil and a tablespoonful of tarragon vinegar ; 
season with salt and a little coralline pepper, rub through a fine wire 
sieve and use for making sandwiches or for filling brioches, to serve for 
a luncheon dish, arranged in a pile and garnished with cress or aspic 
jelly- 
Quenelles of White Meat 
For Garnishing Calf's Heac^ Meats, &e. 

Pound six ounces of raw white meat till smooth, then mix with six 
ounces of pounded Panard (vol. i.), one ounce of butter, a little salt and 
pepper, and a tiny dust of cayenne ; mix well into it two and a half 
whole raw eggs, one tablespoonful of cream, and one large tablespoonful 
of thick Bechamel sauce (vol. i.), then rub all through a wire sieve, and 
put into a forcing bag with a plain pipe; force the mixture into little 
quenelle tins that have been buttered and ornamented with truffle, put 
them into a saute pan or stewpan on a piece of paper, cover with boiling 
water, watch this reboil, then draw the pan aside and let the quenelles 
poach for fifteen minutes. When cooked, take up and turn out on a 
cloth, and use. 



608 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 



FANCY BUTTERS 

Anchovy Butter 

For Garnishing Fillets, &c. 

Take three ounces of fresh butter, two hard-boiled yolks of eggs, and 
six boned Christiania anchovies; pound together, then rub through a 
sieve, and then add a few drops of Marshall's Liquid Carmine, the juice of 
half a large or one small lemon ; mix up all together and use cold for 
fish or meats. 

Crayfish Butter 
For Garnishing Savouries, &c. 

Pound till smooth six cooked crayfish bodies, and mix with two 
ounces of fresh butter, a dust of Marshall's Coralline Pepper, six 
Christiania anchovies freed from bone ; add a few drops of Marshall's 
Liquid Carmine; rub all through a fine hair sieve, and then use by 
means of a forcing bag and small rose or plain pipe according to the 
purpose required. 

Egg Butter 
For CroHtons used for Savouries and Breakfast Dishes 

Pound together the hard-boiled yolks of three eggs, three ounces of 
butter, four filleted Christiania anchovies, a dust of coralline pepper, 
and a saltspoonful of French mustard. Hub it all through a fine hair 
sieve (or better still a tammy) and use. 

Fancy Butter 
For Hams, Tongues, &c. 

Take for one ham, one pound of perfectly fresh butter, put it into a 
basin, and work it with a wooden spoon until it presents a creamy ap- 
pearance, working it for about fifteen to twenty minutes ; then divide 
it into two parts, colour one part with a little of Marshall's Liquid 
Carmine or Cherry Red, and when well mixed together use by means of 
a forcing bag with a large rose pipe, putting the red in the bag on one 
side and the white on the other, and close the bag, pressing the two sides 
well together, when the colours will blend into a mottled appearance. 
The tongue or ham should be first brushed over with warm glaze and 
this left to cool before ornamenting, and when ornamented it should be 
left in a cool place that the butter may become quite firm. 



OF EXTRA RECIPES GARNISHES, FARCES, PUREES, ETC. 609 

Hani Butter 
For Sandwiches, Farcing Olives, &c. 

Pound four ounces of lean cooked ham with an ounce and a half of 
butter, a dust of Marshall's Coralline Pepper, and a few drops of liquid 
carmine : rub through a hair sieve and use. 

Lax Butter 
For Sandwiches and Croutons 

Pound two tablespoonfuls of lax with two ounces of fresh butter, 
a little coralline pepper, and a little carmine, then pass through a sieve 
and use. 

Lobster Butter 

Pound together half a pound of cooked lobster, six ounces of fresh 
butter, four boned Christiania anchovies, a few drops of carmine, a dust 
of Marshall's Coralline Pepper, and one hard-boiled yolk of egg ; then 
pass through a fine hair sieve and use. This lobster butter is excellent 
to serve for breakfast and luncheon, and will be found nice for garnishing* 
various dishes of fish or fowl. 



CROUTONS, PASTES, AND BICE 

Croutons with Cheese 
For Soup 

Take some nice slices of stale bread and cut them out with a cutter 
about the size of a shilling ; fry them in clarified butter (vol. i. 
page 14) till a nice golden colour, then brush them over with warm 
glaze on one side, and dip the glazed side into some grated Parmesan 
cheese. Dish them up on a plate on a dish-paper, and hand with the 
soup. 

Croutons 
For handing with Puree or Clear Soups 

Take some stale white bread, cut it into slices about a quarter of an 
inch thick, and stamp from it some little rounds about the size of half- 

R R 



6] MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

a-crown piece, then cut each round into two parts, and fry in a frying 
basket in clean boiling fat till a nice golden colour ; then take up and 
shake well from the fat, and sprinkle with finely-chopped raw green 
parsley and a little coralline pepper, and dish up in a pile on a paper, 
and serve with bisque or any highly-flavoured cream or clear soup. 



Croutons a la Julienne 
To hand with Clear or Thick Soups 

Take some stale slices of bread about a quarter of an inch thick and 
stamp them out with a plain round cutter about the size of a penny 
piece ; fry them in clean boiling fat till a pretty golden colour, then 
brush the tops of each over with a little warm glaze, and just before 
serving put a teaspoonful of vegetables, prepared as below, on each. 
Dish up on a dish-paper and serve at once, allowing one crouton to each 
person. 

Julienne Vegetables for CroCtons. Take raw vegetables, such as 
turnip, leek, and carrot, cut them in shreds and put them separately in 
cold water with a pinch of salt, bring to the boil, strain them, and rinse 
them in cold water, return to the stewpans, which have been lightly 
buttered, and fry each separately for a few moments ; then cook them 
in clear stock till tender, and use as directed above. 



Croutons with Oysters 
For Sou}) 

Take some stale bread cut into slices about a quarter of an inch 
thick and two inches wide, stamp out with a plain round cutter, fry in 
clean boiling clarified butter till a pale golden colour ; then take up and 
drain, and place on a baking-tin, mask over with a little Cheese Cream 
(see recipe), and brown with the salamander ; then place on the top 
of each an oyster that has been warmed between two plates, with a 
little of the oyster liquor, and then sprinkle with a little coralline 
pepper. Dish up on a hot plate on a napkin or dish-paper, and serve 
at once with any hot soup, either clear or puree. 

Anchovy Devil Paste 

Take a teaspoonful of French mustard, four boned Christiania 
anchovies and the same of GorgOna anchovies chopped up, a dust of 



OF EXTKA RECIPES GARNISHES, FARCES, PUREES, ETC. 611 

coralline pepper, a pinch of salt, a dessertspoonful of chopped chutney, 
and a teaspoonful of curry paste ; mix all together with the strained juice 
of one lemon, and use. 

Cheese Short Paste 

With a quarter of a pound of fine flour rub two ounces of butter till 
smooth ; then mix in a pinch of salt and coralline pepper, one and a 
half ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, one whole raw egg ; mix up 
together into a stiff paste with cold water, then roll out, and use for 
tartlets, &c. 

Neapolitan G-arnisli 

Put a quarter-pound of Naples macaroni to cook for half an hour 
in plenty of boiling water with a good pinch of salt ; then strain 
oft' and cut it in lengths of about one inch and mix it in a stewpan with 
a quarter-pound of cooked lean ham or tongue cut in similar lengths, 
twelve cooked button mushrooms, three large truffles, a good pat of 
butter, and a dust of coralline pepper; stand the pan in the 
bain-marie to get hot, and keep so till ready to serve. This may also 
be mixed with three ounces of grated Gruyere or Parmesan che 
when it can be served as a distinct dish for luncheon or second course, 
and is excellent with veal, beef, &c. 

Boiled Sparghetti 

Put the sparghetti into boiling water that is seasoned with a little salt, 
and simmer gently for one and a quarter hours ; then strain and use. 



Buttered Rice 

Take half a pound of rice boiled as for curry (vol. i. page 32) ; when 
dry turn it on to a hot baking-tin and pour over it three ounces of warm 
butter ; mix well together with a fork, and put it into a moderate oven 
for ten to twelve minutes, during whicht ime occasionally turn the rice 
about, and then use while quite hot. 

Rice 
For serving with Soups, &c. 

Take half a pound of Patna rice, boiled as for Curry (see recipe), and 
when dry put it from the cullender on to a hot clean baking-tin. Put 



612 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

into a stewpan two ounces of warm fresh butter and one ounce of pounded 
live lobster spawn, a few drops of lemon juice, a pinch of coralline 
pepper ; mix this with the rice, and just place the tin in a moderate oven 
till the rice steams and is quite hot, then dish up in a pile, serve with 
puree soups, braised chicken, boiled salmon, ivc. 

Rice 
To serve with Game, Poultry, or Meats 

Put one pound of Patna rice in a stewpan, with sufficient cold water 
to cover it ; bring it to the boil, then strain off the rice and wash it well 
in cold water; replace it in the stewpan, cover it with boiling water, 
and boil for fifteen minutes. Strain it, rinse it well in boiling water. 
and set it for two hours to dry in the screen. When to be served, pour 
over it some Tomato butter (vol. i.). This can be used for a separate 
dish for luncheon or dinner. 

Red Rice Border 
Ided for Entries, &c. 

Put a half-pound of Carolina rice into a stewpan with enough cold 
water to cover it, bring to the boil, then strain and wash the rice well in 
cold water ; return it to the stewpan, and add to it one pint of good- 
flavoured stock that is lightly coloured with carmine, the pulp from three 
large ripe tomatoes, one ounce of good butter, and a bunch of herbs ; 
place the pan on the stove and bring the contents to the boil, then 
simmer very gently for about an hour, during w T hich time add a little 
more stock. If the rice appears very dry when cooked, add to it two 
raw yolks of egg that have been mixed to a creamy consistency in a 
basin. Take a well-buttered fancy or plain border mould, and press the 
rice into it with the hand, which should be occasionally dipped into cold 
water ; then place the mould in a baking-tin, surround it to about three- 
parts its depth with boiling water, and place it in a moderate oven for 
fifteen to twenty minutes ; turn out, and use. 

Pilau Rice 
As used for Kabobs 

Peel six good-sized onions, cut them in little dice shapes, and fry 
them in four ounces of good fat till a nice brown colour ; then add three- 
quarters of a pound of blanched Patna rice, in the centre of which put a 
bunch of herbs (thyme, parsley, and bay leaf), a good pinch of saffron . 



OF EXTRA RECIPES GARNISHES, FARCES, PUREES, ETC. 613 

six crushed cardamoms, a dessertspoonful of Marshall's Curry Powder, and 
a quarter-ounce of coralline pepper ; add one and a half pints of good 
light-coloured stock in which a good pinch of saffron has been boiled, 
put a buttered paper on the top, and cook for about one hour and a 
quarter, when the grains should be tender and separate. This may also 
be served in place of a vegetable for luncheon or dinner. 

Red Pilau Rice 

Put one pound of Patna rice in a stewpan in enough (Told water to 
cover it; when it comes to the boil wash it and put it into a clean stew- 
pan, with a quarter of a pound of butter or fat, half a pint of Tomato 
sauce (vol. i.). and a pint of stock that is lightly coloured with a little 
carmine; add a bunch of herbs (thyme, parsley, and bayleaf), and cook 
with a buttered paper over for about an hour, adding a little more stock 
as that with the rice reduces ; it will require about a pint of stock in all. 
This is nice to use with veal, beef, rabbit, or chicken, and can be Berved 
alone as a dish for luncheon or dinner. 



EGG, CUSTARDS, ETC. 

Egg Garnish. 
For Little ( 'oquiues, &c. 

Whip till stiff three whites of eggs with a pinch of salt and a dust 
of Marshall's Coralline Pepper, and use by means of a forcing bag with 
a large rose pipe. 

Egg Garnishes 

For < 'If, is SoupS) Moulds for Entries, &e. 

White Ecu; Garnish. Mix four whites of eggs with one dessert- 
spoonful of thick cream and a pinch of salt ; then tammy, and pour it 
into buttered dariol moulds, and poach them till firm, and xisewhen quite 
cold, cutting or stamping out in an}' fancy shapes. 

Pink Egg Garnish. Mix three yolks of eggs with one and a half 
tablespoonfuls of thick cream and a pinch of salt, add a few drops of 
carmine ; tammy, and cook similarly to the white garnish. 

Yellow Egg Garnish. Mix three yolks of eggs with one and a half 
tablespoonfuls of thick cream and a pinch of salt, add a few drops 
of apricot yellow, tammy, and cook in the same way as the other 
garnishes. 



614 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

Almond Meringue Mixture 

Put into a whipping-tin two whites of eggs with a pinch of salt, and 
whip them till quite stiff, then add a quarter-pound of castor sugar and 
one ounce of blanched and finely-shredded almonds ; put into a forcing 
bag with a large plain pipe, force it out on to cold waxed tins, arranging 
the shape according to taste, dust over by means of a dredger with a 
little of Marshall's Icing Sugar, put into a moderate oven, and bake till 
a nice brown colour, then take up ; dress when cold with whipped and 
sweetened and flavoured cream, place on a dish on a paper and serve 
for a dinner or luncheon sweet or plainly for dessert. These can also be 
used for filling cakes, &c. &c. 

Chocolat Meringue Mixture 
For fitting Cakes, Meringues, &e. 

Whip stiff four whites of eggs with a pinch of salt, add three ounces 
of castor sugar, eight or ten drops of vanilla essence, two tablespoonfuls 
of chocolat puree (see recipe for .Muscats). 

Poached Meringues 

Whip very stiffly five large whites of eggs with a pinch of salt, then 
add to them a quarter-pound of castor sugar, taking care not to stir 
them about more than possible after the sugar is added. Put in a 
saucepan about three pints of boiling water, sweeten it with a quarter" 
pound of castor or loaf sugar, and with two spoons form the meringue 
into quenelle shapes (vol. i. page 37) and drop each into the boiling 
water ; leave them till set, turning them from side to side ; take up care- 
fully with a slice, place them on a hair sieve, and leave till cold ; use 
with custards, creams, fruits, &c. 

Coloured Whipped Cream 

Whip half a pint of cream quite stiff, sweeten it with two ounces of 
castor sugar, flavour it with vanilla or other essence or liqueur, colour 
with a few drops of Marshall's Liquid Carmine for red, and Marshall's 
Sap Green for green, and so on with the other colourings. Pass a fork 
backwards and forwards through it to give it a mottled appearance, o r 
mix well up to colour throughout-,' and use by means of a forcing bag and 
pipe of size and pattern, according to designs required. 



OF EXTRA RECIPES GARNISHES, FARCES, PUREES, ETC. G15 

Cheese Custard 
For Prqfiteroles, Tartlets, Bouches 

Put one ounce of fine flour into ;i stewpan with two ounces of grated 
Parmesan cheese, one and a half ounces of butter, two raw yolks of eggs, 
a pinch of salt, a dust of Marshall's Coralline Pepper, and mix together 
with one and a half gills of cold milk ; stir over the stove till it boils, 
then add two tablespoonfuls of stiffly-whipped cream, and use for filling 
any little pastry cases, or for croustades. 

Savoury Custard 
For < hroustades, Soups, &c. 

Take three whole raw eggs and mix: them with two tablespoonfuls 
of cream, season with a little pepper and salt and a dust of coralline 
pepper, beat up together with a fork, then strain and mix with a little 
finely-chopped parsley ; pour into a buttered tin and steam till firm ; put 
away till cold, then turn out and cut in required shapes. This custard 
can be used for clear soups, or for garnishing entrees. 

Cheese Savoury Custard 
For Hon]) 

Take four whole eggs, four tablespoonfuls of cream, a pinch of salt 
and coralline pepper, and two tablespoonfuls of freshly-grated Par- 
mesan cheese. Mix up all together with a fork, divide into two parts, 
colour one with a few drops of carmine, and leave the other part plain ; 
pour each into buttered dariol moulds and steam till firm, then turn out, 
and when cold cut out as required. 

Cheese Paste 

Take a quarter of a pound of fine flour, two ounces of butter, one 
ounce of grated Parmesan, a little salt and coralline pepper, and one 
whole raw egg ; mix together into a stiff paste with cold water, then roll 
out and use. 



CI 6 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 



ICINGS 

Apricot Glace 
For Glazing Cakes, dec. 

Put about half a pound of apricot jam into a stewpan with about 
two gills of water, six ounces of castor sugar, and a saltspoonful of 
apricot yellow or other colouring ; boil up and let it cook on the stove 
for fifteen to twenty minutes until somewhat thick, then put it through 
a fine hair sieve, and use while hot to glace over the cakes. 

Chocolate Glace 
For Glassing ( lakes, &c. 

Cut up very finely four ounces of Fry's Caracas Chocolate, put it 
into a stewpan with one gill of warm water, and boil it till quite smooth. 
Mix three-quarters of a pound of Marshall's Icing Sugar in a stewpan 
with three tablespoonfuls of the prepared chocolate and half a table- 
spoonful of warm water, stir over the fire till just warm, then use. 

Orange Glace 
For Glazing Cakes, &G, 

Put the finely-chopped peel of an orange into a stewpan, and pour 
over it half a gill of boiling water ; cover the pan, and let the contents 
remain till cool ; then add the juice of the orange, and strain through 
a piece of muslin. Take three-quarters of a pound of Marshall's Icing 
Sugar, and mix with it three tablespoonfuls and a half of the liquor 
prepared as above ; just stir over the fire till it is warm, then use at 
once. 

Bed Glace 

For Glazing Cakes, Pompadours, &c. 

Take six ounces of icing sugar, mix it with one and a half table- 
spoonfuls of water, a few drops of vanilla essence, and a few drops of 
carmine ; warm and use. 

Strawberry Glace 

For Glazing Cakes, &c. 

Put in a stewpan three-quarters of a pound of Marshall's Icing 
Sugar, three or four tablespoonfuls of strawberry syrup or pulp, and a 
few drops of carmine ; just warm together, then use. 



OF EXTRA RECIPES GARNISHES, FARCES, PUREES, ETC. 617 

Water Glace 
For Glazing Cakes 

Mix three-quarters of a pound of Marshall's Icing Sugar with three 
or four tablespoonfuls of water, stir this over the fire till warm, then 
use. 



VEGETABLE GARNISHES 

Artichoke Bottoms with. Mayonnaise 

Take one small tin of cooked artichoke bottoms or six freshly cooked 
ones, cut them in neat dice shapes, mix with them two tablespoonfuls 
of thick Mayonnaise sauce (vol. i.), add a little chopped tarragon and 
chervil, a dessertspoonful of tarragon vinegar, and use. Salsifies, when 
in season, or (it her nice vegetable, can be used in the same way. 

Asparagus Peas 
For Garnishing Soups and /' v 

Scrape and then cut off the points of some fresh asparagus, put them 
into boiling water with a little salt and a tiny bit of soda, and gently 
boil for fifteen minutes, then strain and use. Cut the stalks up as far 
as they are tender into little lengths of about a quarter of an inch. Cook 
these in the same manner as the points in a separate stewpan, and use. 

Braised Cabbage 
For Timbals 

Trim and split a nice large white cabbage, and take the best part 
and lay it in cold water with a tablespoonful of salt for an hour or 
two, rinse it well, and put it in enough cold water to cover it ; let it come 
to the boil, then wash it well in cold water, press all the water from it, 
and chop it up very fine. Put two ounces of butter in a saute pan, add 
the cabbage and a dust of coralline pepper ; fry for about ten minutes ; 
then add a cmarter of a pint of game gravy, and half an ounce of glaze, 
and keep gently simmering on the side of the stove, with a buttered 
paper over it and the cover on the pan, for about an hour, adding a 



618 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

little more stock if needed ; when the cabbage is tender and quite dry, 
turn it into a basin or pan to cool, then add the raw yolks of three 
eggs ; mix well together, and put into the centre of the timbal. 

Carrots 
For Braised Joint* 

Take some peeled and cleansed carrots, and cut them out with a plain 
round vegetable scoop; put them into cold water, bring to the boil, then 
strain and rinse them, and braise them in stock till tender. 

Celery, Stuffing 

Take two or three sticks of celery, wash them well and then braise 
them (see ' Braised Celery,' vol. i.) ; when cooked take up and rub through 
a fine wire sieve, or chop it up fine, and mix with two ounces of freshly- 
made white bread crumbs, a saltspoonful of coralline pepper, a little salt, 
two ounces of warm butter, two whole raw eggs ; mix up together, and 
use for stuffing ducks, chickens, &c. 

Cucumber 
For Salmon 

Peel a large cucumber, and cut it in olive shapes ; put these into a 
stewpan with enough cold water to cover them, and a pinch of salt, 
bring [to the boil, then strain and put into a stewpan with one ounce of 
butter and the strained juice of half a lemon, and cook on the stove for 
about fifteen minutes with the pan covered down, then mix with a little 
chopped parsley and use. 

Cucumber Peas 

For 80 up, &c. 

Peel the cucumber, and by means of a pea-cutter scoop out into pea 
shapes ; put these into cold water with a pinch of salt, and gently boil 
till tender for about fifteen minutes, then strain and use. Potato peas 
are prepared in a similar way. 

Cucumber Salad 
For Salmon, Fntrees, Chicken, &c. 

Peel a nice large fresh cucumber an4 cut it into pea shapes with a 
pea-cutter, or it can be cut in dice^hapes ; season it with a little salad 
oil, French vinegar, and a little chopped tarragon and chervil, and use. 



OF EXTRA RECIPES GARNISHES, FARCES, PUREES, ETC. 61 9 

Mushrooms 
For Garnishing or Serving Plain 

Take some nice, freshly-gathered mushrooms, peel and wash them, 
and cut off the stalks ; place them in a buttered saute pan, season them 
with a little salt and coralline pepper, and about a tablespoon ful of 
good stock ; place a piece of well-buttered paper over them, and cook 
in a moderate oven for about twelve to fifteen minutes, basting them 
occasionally while cooking, and, when tender, use. 

Button Onions 
For OarnisMng Meats, &c 

Peel and blanch some button onions, and put them into a buttered 
stewpan ; fry them till a nice golden colour, add a bunch of herbs, cover 
them well with stock, and braise till tender, strain and use. 

Small Potato Croquettes 

Rub^half a pound of hot cooked potatoes through a wire sieve, and 
mix with the puree half an ounce of warm butter, one raw yolk of egg, 
and a little salt and pepper ; set this aside till cold, then roll out with 
fine flour into portions about the size of a Spanish nut, dip these into 
whole raw beaten-up eggs and into freshly-made white breadcrumbs ; fry 
them in clean boiling fat till a pretty golden colour, and use. 

Reform Garnish 

For one dish take Julienne shreds of French gherkin, truffle, button 
mushroom, cooked ox-tongue or ham, and hard-boiled white of egg, 
making in all a half-pint ; put between two plates with a little white 
stock or water, and warm over boiling water ; the white of egg is best 
warmed alone, as it is otherwise apt to get discoloured. Use for cutlets 
or garnishing braised fowl, &c. 

Tarragon and Chervil 

Foil' Soup 

Pick^tke leaves of chervil small, and cut some fresh tarragon in 
shreds ; put them together in cold water, add a little salt and a tiny bit 
of soda, bring to the boil, strain off, rinse in cold water, and use. 



620 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

Tomato Salad 
For Cold Entrees of Fish or Meat 

Peel some fresh tomatoes and free them from pips, cut into small 
square pieces, season them with salad oil, tarragon vinegar, and a little 
salt and mignonette pepper, and use. 

Tomato Cream 

Remove the skins and pips from four large raw ripe tomatoes and 
rub them through a hair sieve, and to a quarter of a pint of the pulp 
add half a gill of liquid aspic jelly and a few drops of carmine, half a 
tablespoonful of tarragon vinegar, a tablespoonful of thick Mayonnaise 
sauce (vol. i.), a dust of coralline pepper, and half a gill of stiffly- 
whipped cream. Mix together, keep on ice till wanted, then use with 
vegetables, cold fish, &c. 

Tomatoes 
far (in nils/iing 

Cut some ripe tomatoes in slices about a quarter of an inch thick, 
season these with a little of Marshall's Coralline Pepper and a little salt, 
put them in a buttered saute pan, and cook them in a moderate oven 
with a buttered paper over for about ten minutes, and use for fillets of 
beef, sweetbread, &c. 

Turnip Cups 
For Meats, &c. 

Take some small fresh-gathered turnips, peel them, and scoop them 
out in the form of a little cup (see engraving to recipe ' Beef a la Pom- 
padour '). Put them into a stewpan with cold water, seasoned with a 
little salt, and bring to the boil, then simmer them in boiling water till 
tender, drain them and then fill them up with any plainly boiled or 
braised vegetables, or with truffle and shredded button mushrooms that are 
mixed with a little sherry and glaze boiled together. These are nice to 
use for garnishing or serving alone as a dressed vegetable. 



OF EXTRA RECIPES GARNISHES, FARCES, PUREES, ETC. 621 



SUNDRIES 

Fillets of Chicken 
For Mould*, cither Hot or Gold 

Take the breast fillets from a raw fowl and put them on a buttered 
baking-tin, sprinkle them with a few drops of lemon juice and a little 
salt, pot a buttered paper over and cook in a moderate oven for about 
ten minutes ; when cooked put them to press between two plates with 
a weight on top, and when cold cut in slices and stamp out into the 
desired shapes according to the purpose for which it is required. 

To Make Glaze 

Take any kind of game, poultry, or meat bones, either cooked or raw. 
also any ham or bacon bones and skin ; slightly rub over the bottom of 1 he 
stock-pot with a little dripping or butter, and put in it two cleansed 
sliced carrots and turnips, three or lour onions, some strips of celery, a 
little parsnip (all these vegetables being cut up), a good bunch of herbs 
(thyme, parsley, and bayleaf, basil and marjoram), a few black and white 
peppercorns, and five or six cloves ; add the bones, &c, and fry well for 
about half an hour. Then fill up the pot with cold water and let it come 
gently to the boil ; skim it well, and let it simmer steadily for several 
hours, then strain off through a cloth or fine hair sieve, and leave till 
cold; then take off the fat. and pour the stock into a clean stewpan. 
pouring very carefully so that the sediment at the bottom does not get 
mixed in ; let this boil quickly until of the consistency of thick cream, 
keeping it well skimmed while boiling ; then put it into cleansed and 
dried skins, tie up tightly, and hang up in a dry place, and it will keep for 
any length of time. If required for immediate use, it will be sufficiently 
strong if it is reduced to the consistency of single cream. 

Consomine 
For Filling Little Moulds for Entries 

Take a pint and a quarter of good-flavoured soup, and dissolve in it 
three-quarters of an ounce of Marshall's Leaf Gelatine, an ounce of 
glaze ; a wineglass >of sherry can be added if liked ; mix with two raw 
whites of eggs that have been beaten up, bring this to the boil, 
simmer for five minutes, and strain through a clean soup cloth. When 
cooling use for either meat or poultry dishes. 



622 MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 

To Prepare Fat for Frying 

Take some mutton kidney fat, cut it up into small square pieces, 
put it into a clean stewpan, place it on the side of the stove, and let 
the fat gradually draw down ; when all the fat has been extracted, 
strain it off through an old hair sieve into a clean tin pan. This fat 
can be used for frying meats, fish, &c, and will keep well, from time to 
time being strained after each time of using, and can if liked be mixed 
in part with lard. Do not pour the boiling fat into china basins or 
pans, as it is likely to break them. 

To Clarify Dripping for Frying 

Take some clean dripping, and put it into a clean stewpan with half 
its quantity of clean water, boil for about one hour on the side of the 
stove, during which time keep it well skimmed from any scum rising 
to the surface ; then pour into a tin basin, and when cold take up all the 
fat, clear off from the bottom any sediment, and dry any moisture from 
the dripping with a cloth ; use as required for frying or other purposes. 



OF EXTRA RECIPES INDEX 



623 



INDEX 



AcORNS . ... 




PASS 

162 


Almond Paste for 




463 


ADELINE Cake 




553 


ALBANI Pudding . 




438 


ALBANY Sauce 




26 


ALBERT Pudding . 




433 


Sauce .... 




28 


ALEXANDRA Cakes (Little) 




552 


Glace foi 




668 


Puddings (Little) . 




i:u 


( tastard for . 




i:;i 


Sauce for 




i:;i 


ALMOND Cake, Rose 




668 


Charlotte a la Beatrice 


, 


189 


Muvaroise for 


. , 


490 


Custard. 




602 


Fingers .... 




577 


Meringue Mixture 


. 


614 


for Little Flowers . 


670 


Mixture for Little Beatrice Cakes 


487 


Paste for Acorns .... 


463 




50!) 


Pudding a la Boleno 


434 


Sauce for. 


435 




569 


ALMONDS, Apples and, Fleur of, 




a la Vienne . 


528 


Paste for . 


528 


for Little Mokas .... 


461 


AMBASSADE Sauce 


5 


AMBASSADRICE Sauce for Creams 




of Babbit . 


197 


AMERICAN Buns .... 


571 


Corn Salad ..... 


410 


Sauce for . 


410 


Flannel Cakes . 


554 


Meringues . 


169 


Mixture for 


459 


ANCHOVIES a la Colrnar 


33 


a la Creme . 


318 


a la Rosamond . 


34 


a la Royale, Fillets of 




Plaice with 


96 


a la St. Augustine 


34 


Beef Pudding with 


366 


ANCHOVY Butter . . . . 


608 


Fillets of Sole with . 


111 


Veal with . 


326 


Fried Sole with 


107 


Croiites a la Francaise . 


33 


Devil Paste 


611 


Puree for 


33 


Pur6e for rilling Patties 


605 


Masking Toast, & 




605 



* l'AGK 

ANCHOVY Puree (Hot) for Croutons 605 

Salad a la Careine . . . 412 

ANDREANI Sauce .... 5 

ANGELIC Sauce .... 5 

APPETIT Sild ;\ la Burlington . . 34 

a la Saint-Cloud . 318 

Pure for . . 318 

on Croiites . . 35 

Puree for . . 35 

APPLE Crab-, Cheese . . . 583 

Marmalade 580 

Puree for Fillets of Veal a la Bou- 

langer 325 

Salad, a la Saint Florentine . 411 

APPLES a la d'Orleans . . . 465 

Compote for . . . 466 

Vanilla Cream fox . 466 

a la Francaise . . . 453 

and Almonds, Fleur of, a la Vienne 528 

Paste for . . .628 

Crab-, Bottled .... 583 

Fleur of, a la Creme . . . 527 

Cream for . . 528 

Puree for . . . 528 

APRICOT Cakes (Little) in Surprise 470 

Cream for . . 470 

-Mixture for . . 470 

for Bavaroise a l'lmperiale . . 507 

Fritters 455 

Glace for Baba a la Parisienne . 475 

Cakes, &c. . . .616 

Jam, Omelet with . . . 443 

Meringues 458 

Pudding ..... 447 

Sauce (Yellow) .... 28 

APRICOTS a la Conde . . .449 

Fleur of 526 

Marchpane of ... 578 

ARROWROOT Sauce ... 28 
ARTICHOKE 

Bottoms a la Bourgogaic . . 380 

Puree f or . . . 380 

k la Fife . . . .379 

Puree for. . . 379 

a la Valentine . . 381 

Chestnuts for . . 381 

Asparagus a la Cannes and . 378 

Sauce for . 378 

for Fillet of Beef a la Touraine 364 

Mushrooms a la Marquise . 392 

Neck of Mutton a la Clarence 358 

with Asparagus Points a 

l'Estragon . 380 

Mayonnaise . . .617 



624 



MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY ROOK 



ARTICHOKE Salad .... 


paoh 
379 


ARTICHOKES, Cucumber and, for 




Neck of Lamb . 


359 


Pastry, a la d'Estrees . 


525 


Meringue Mixture for 


526 


Syrup for . 


526 


Plain 


379 


ASPARAGUS a, l'Espagne 


376 


a lTrlandaise . . 


376 


a, la Princesse 


376 


and Artichoke Bottoms a la Cannes 


378 


Sauce for 


378 


and Suedoise Sauce 


377 


Creams (Little) a la Val-la-Ileine 


256 


Glasses for . 


'2~>~> 


a la Montreuil 


212 


Sauce for 


218 


for Turban il la Jessamine . 


216 


Omelet with .... 


285 


Peas for garnishing Soups, ..vc 


617 


Points ii l'Estragon, Artichoke 




Bottoms with .... 


380 


Salad a la Campagne 


378 


ASPIC Cream for Border for Larks 




a la Botterville . 


246 


for Tiinbal a la Palmeira 


242 


Iced Timbals of, for Plover's 1 




a la Navarre 


294 


Mayonnaise (Blocks of) 


599 


Green 


599 


Olive-coloured . 


599 


Pink and White 


599 


Plover's Eggs in, a la Victoria 


28 1 


Tomato, for Timbal a la Palmeira 


242 


Jjaba a la Parisienne 


474 


Aprioot (.'lace for . 


475 


Walnuts or Filberts for . 


474 


BACON, to cure 


596 


Eggs and, a la Mariette 


292 


Mushrooms and, for Fritot of Cray- 




lish a la Cleve- 




land 


281 


Omelet with 


287 


Kagotit for . 


287 


BADEN-BADEN Cakes (Little) 


526 


BAKED Gooseberry Pudding 


160 


BAKING Powder, Bread for Break- 




fast or Tea made with 


573 


Tins for Muscats, to prepare 


562 


BALLETTES a la St. Louis . 


236 


Ragout for . 


236 


Chocolate 


452 


of Foie Gras a. lTmperiale 


249 


BALLS, Fish, a. la Saratoga 


301 


Little, in Cases .... 


468 


Neva (Little) .... 


4<i7 


Mixture for .... 


467 


Puree of Bananas for . 


467 


BANANA Puree . . . . 


580 


for Little French 




Creams a la d'Artois 


512 


for Little Neva Balls . 


467 


Sauce . 


29 


BARLEY Bread .... 


574- 


BARTLETT Chocolate Tea Cake . 


555 



PAOl 

BASKET a la Eosslyn . . .492 
with Saratoga Potatoes . . 401 
BASKETS. Larks in . . . . 189 
Sauce for . . . P.ii) 
Little, a la Lavenue . . . 478 
a la Toulouse . . .214 
Ragout for . . . 214 
Nougat, a la Duchesse . .484 
a la Durer . . .487 
BATH Tea Cakes .... 554 
BATTER Pudding, Boiled . . . 452 
BAVAROISE a la Cleveland . . 505 
B lTmperiale . . 606 
Apricot for . . 607 
i ins for . . 507 
a la Pompadour . . 504 
( 'ream- tor 504 506 
Garnish for Mould 
for . . . 505 
for Almond Charlottca ia Beatrice. 190 
Little French Creams a la 
dArtois . . . .512 
Mixture for Pudding a la Eeine . 514 
Pineapple, a la Margaux . . 505 
Vanilla, for Charlotte a la Prin- 
cesse .... 471 
with Fruits . . . 503 
BEAN, French, Soup ... 71 
Haricot, Puree .... 606 
BEANS, French, Omelet with . . 286 
Salad of, a la Flamande . 381 
with Cream of Turnips . 382 
BEATRICE Cakes. Little . . 486 
Almond Mixture for . 487 
Short Taste for . . 487 
BECHAMEL Chaudfroid Sauce . 600 
Cheese, for Gnocchi a la Francaise . 542 

Sauce I! 

BEEF a la Baroelone . . . 272 

Cutlets of, a la Moltke . . 136 

BagOttt for . .136 

a la Portugaise . . 137 

Farce for Little Creams of Beef. 138 

Terrine of Hare a la 

Francaise . . 277 

Fillet of, a la Jussienne . . 860 

Sauce for . . 361 

al'Ostende. . . : > .rl 

BagoUt and Sauce 

for . . . 362 

a la Touraine . . 363 

Artichoke Bottoms for 364 

Tomatoes for . . 364 

with Salsifies .... 360 

Fillets of, a la Canadienne . .132 

Sauce for . . L J .:! 

a la Carlsbad . . 133 

aiaClaudine . . 133 

a la Mecklenburg . 134 

a la Parisienne . . 362 

Farce for . . 363 

Sauce for . . 363 

Tomatoes for . 368 

a, la Perigueux . . 269 

Sauce for . . 269 

a la Princesse Louise . 270 

Sauce for . . 270 

a la Riga . . 134 

a la Sardou . .135 



OF EXTRA RECIPES IXDEX 



625 



BEEF, Grilled Fillets of, ft la Diable . 


pach 
132 


Sauce for 


182 


Tomatoes for 


132 


Larded Fillet of, with Tomato 




Puree 


364 


Little Creams of . . . 


137 


Farce for 


138 


Little Fillets of, ft la Moville . 


L34 


Ragoilt for . 


134 


a la Yalais 


136 


Pickle (liquid) for 


597 


Potted : 


27:; 


Pudding with Anchovies 


366 


Sauted Fillets of, it la Claudine 


270 


Sauce for 


270 


a la Paysamu 


27! 


Sirloin of, a la Pompadour . 


364 


Sauce for 


365 


Carrots, Turnips f< a 


368 


BEIG-NETS a, la Montgardor 


210 


a, la Victoria . 


15 1 


of Pheasants a la Dominique 


178 


J'un'c for . 


179 


Bioe Cream .... 


151 


BIARRITZ Sauce 


6 


BISCUITS, Devilled . 


36 


Ginger ..... 


568 


Grisini ..... 


577 


Water 


566 


BISQUE a la Grecque 


64 


ft la Mancelle 


64 


Stock for 


. 65 


BLACK Butter, Codfish with 


. 79 


Currant Jam .... 


. 580 


BLANCMANGE for Cream a la Nic 


I 512 


BLANQUETTE of Eggs a la Napier 


293 


Sauce fo 


r 293 


Supreme of Chicken in 


. 227 


Border for 


. 228 


Sauce for 


. 228 


BLOCKS of Aspic Mayonnaise . 


. 599 


BOAR'S Head .... 


. 375 


BOHEMIAN Cake . 


. 555 


BOILED Patter Pudding . 


. 452 


Chicken ft la Napolitaine 


. :;:,:; 


and Champagne Sauce 


. 888 


Ox Tongue a la Dorna . 


. 368 


Ragout for . 


. see 


Sparghetti .... 


. 611 


BOMB of Crab ft la Belle Helene 


. 260 


Curried Vegetables for 


. 261 


Mousse Mixture for 


. 261 


BOMBS, Little, a la Beatrice 


. 217 


ft la Milan 


. 314 


Custard for . 


. 314 


ft la Visapore 


. 257 


Egg for 


. 257 


Ragout for . 


. 257 


of Lobster ft la Berlin 


. 261 


Puree fo 


r 262 


Oysters ft la Versaille 


s 259 


Puree fo 


r 259 


BORDER for Fillets of Sole a 1 


i 


Correlate 


. 112 


for Salmis of Chicken a la Re 


- 


gence .... 


. 176 


Sweetbread a lTmp6ratrice 


. 155 


Puree for 


. 155 


Timbal a la Palmeira 


. 242 



PAGE 

BORDER, Aspic Cream, for Larks 

a la Sotterville .... 216 
Mayonnaise of Vegetables, for Su- 
preme of Chicken in Blanquette 228 
Potato Salad, for Macedoine Salad 420 
Rice, for Entrees . . . .612 

(Red) 612 

BOSTON Brown Bread . . . 575 

BOTTLED Crab-Apples . . 583 

Fruits without Sugar . . . 58 1 

Peaches 588 

Syrup for . . . .589 

Strawberries 591 

BOTTOMS 

Artichoke, ft la Bourgogaic . . 380 

Puree for . . 380 

a la Fife . . . :i7i> 

Puree for . . 87i> 

ft la Valentine . . 381 

Chestnuts for . :'.S1 

and Cucumber for Neck of 

Lamb .... 859 

Asparagus and, ft la Cannes 378 

Sauce for 378 
for Fillet of Beef, ft la 

Touraine .... 964 
for Mushrooms a la Mar- 
quise .... 392 
for Neck of Mutton ft la 

Clarence .... 358 
with Asparagus Points a 

l'Estragon . . . 880 

with Mayonnaise . . 617 

BOUCHES, Little, a la Pa.vsanne . 316 

Macaroni for . 815 

Sauce for . . 315 

of Foie Gras ft la Basse 260 

Bed Garnish for 250 

Salad for . . 250 

BOUJLLON, Court, Perch with . 306 

BRAINS and Tongue Garnish for 

Oalfs Head ft l'Andreani . 869 

Sauce for mixing . 369 

Devilled Calf's, Croustades of . 324 

BRAISED Cabbage for Timbals . 617 

Chicken and Nouilles . . .341 

Lettuce 391 

Pheasant with Cabbage . . 348 

Cabbage blanched for 8 IS 

Spanish Onions ft la Julienne . 393 

Turkey with Chestnut Puree and 

Mousseline Oyster Sauce . . 345 

BRANDY, Cherries in 582 

Cream Sauce .... 30 

Ginger 585 

Greengages in ... 586 

Snaps 568 

witli ( 'ream . . . 469 

BREAD, Barley . . . .574 

Boston Brown .... 575 

Breakfast 573 

Brown, Fillets of Herring marin- 
aded on 308 

Rolls 574 

Corn 575 

Milk 575 

Pudding a l'Anglaise . . . 449 
Puree for Masking, for Fillets of 

Herring a la Pearlin . . 307 



S S 



4326 



MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 



BREAD, Rye .... 

Short (Scotch) 

Spiced 

Tea, made with Baking Powder 
BREAKFAST Bread 

Cutlets 

Dishes and Curries . . 264- 

or Tea Cakes 

BRENTFORD Rolls 

BRETON Cake 

Mixture for .... 
BRIOCHES, Little, a la Vienne 

Porto oi' Meat for 
BROWN Bread, Fillets of Herring 
marinaded on . . 

Boston .... 

Rolls 

Caper Sauce, Roast Tripe and 

Chaudfroid Sauce .... 

for Lobsters a la Boulevard 

Mushroom Sauce .... 

Puree for Egyptian Cream . 

BUCKWHEAT Cream Cakes . 

buns, American .... 

Cream ...... 

Currant 

Seed 

Spanish 

BUTTER, Puree of Vegetables with . 
Slices of Haddock with 
Anchovy, Fillets of Sole with 
Fillets of Veal with 
for Garnishing Fillets 
Fried Sole with 
Crayfish, for Garnishing Savouries 
Egg, for Croutons, &c. . 
Fancy, for Hams, Tongues, &c. 
for Garnishing Salmon a la Fiord . 
Ham, for Sandwiches, &a 
Lax. for Sandwiches, &c. '. 

Lobster 

Tomato, Macaroni with 
Omelet with . 
Sole with 
BUTTERED Rice .... 
Garnish for Chicken 
Puree a la Chevet . 
BUTTON Onions for Garnishing 

Meats 

Quenelles for Kidneys a la Berlin . 



CABBAGE and Partridge Soup 

Blanched *or Braised Pheasants 

Braised for Timbals 

for Top of Timbal of Pheasant a 
Baronne 

Red Pickled . 

Salad of, a rAm6ricaine 
CAKE, a la Clementine 

Adeline .... 

Almond, Rose 

Bartlett Chocolate Tea . 

Bohemian 

Breton . 
Mixture for 

Cocoanut Pound 



la 



PACK 

575 


CAKE, Confederate . 


PAG> 

. 556 


576 


Delmonico 




. 479 


576 


Mixture for 




. 480 


573 


Genoa . 




. 558 


573 


Imperial 




. 489 


333 


Knutsford 




. 558 


U332 


Madeira 




. 560 


568 


Mentone 




. 476 


574 


Mexican 




. 551 


477 


Moka 




. 47.1 


478 


Neapolitan 




. 473 


331 


Neville . 




. 562 


332 


Norway . 
Progress 




. 491 

. 471 


338 


Rose Almond 




. 55] 


575 


Sultana . 




. 565 


574 


Tea, Bartlett Chocolate . 


. 556 


327 


Tennis .... 


. 565 


600 


CAKES, Alexandra, Little . 


. 562 


51 


Maraschino and Coffee Gla 


cefor 559 


17 


American Flannel . 


. 554 


254 


Apricot, Little, in Surprise 


. 470 


56 1 


Cream for 


. 170 


571 


Mixture for . 


. 470 


572 


Baden-Baden, Little 


. 526 


571 


Bath Tea 


. 554 


578 


Beatrice, Little 


. 486 


572 


Almond Mixture 


[or . 487 


405 


Short Paste for 


. 487 


298 


Breakfast 


. 568 


111 


Buckwheat Cream . 


. 554 


326 


Chevalier 


. 479 


608 


French, Little 


. 557 


107 


Fruit on, a la Parisienne 


. 463 


608 


Sauce for 


. 464 


608 


Lemon Cheese 


. 529 


608 


Madison Slim 






. 560 


97 


M arquis 






. 560 


608 


Milan 






. 559 


609 


Neva, Little . 






. 562 


609 


Queen 






. 563 


544 


Cocoanut . 






. 563 


288 


Richmond 






. 564 


301 


Tea 






. 568 


611 


Bath . 
Toscan, Little 






. 554 
. 567 


322 


Tunbridge 
Victoria 






. 566 

. 570 


619 


CALF'S Brains a la St 


Stephen's 


. 325 


160 


Devilled, Croustades of . 
Foot Jelly . . . . 


. 324 
. 500 




Head, a l'Andreani 


. 369 




Garnish for 


. 369 




Sauce for Mixing 


. 369 


66 


a la Belgrade 


. 370 


348 


a la Francaise 


. 370 


617 


Crouton for 


. 371 




Collared . . . . 


. 323 


181 


G ravy for 


. 324 


595 


Puree for 


. 324 


415 


Escalopes of, a la Tuileries 


. 152 


475 


Sauce : 


'or . 153 


553 


Little Croustades of . 


. 518 


553 


Ragout for . 


. 519 


555 


Liver en Poupee . 


. 268 


555" 


CAPER Sauce (Brown), Roast 


Iripe 


477 






478 


CAPERCAILZIE, Larded, 


and 


~555 


Courte Sauce 






. 349 



OF EXTRA RECIPES INDEX 



627 



CAPSICUM Sauce .... 


6 


CHARLOTTE a la Princesse . 


PAQB 

470 


Grilled Rump Steak 




Vanilla Bavaroise for 


471 


and .... 


272 


Almond, a la Beatrice . 


189 


Roast Leg of Lamb and 


358 


Bavaroise for . 


490 


CAPTAIN", Country .... 


313 


CHARTREUSE of Game a la Bat- 




Croutons for 


313 


tenberg 


23,9 


Fried Onions for . 


313 


Ragout for 


23,9 


CARAMEL Pudding a l'Empress 




Sauce for 


239 


Frederick 


435 


of Fish a la Havraise . 


2(15 


CARDINAL Sauce .... 


7 


Mixture for 


263 


CAEDOOM'S with Marrow 


383 


of Peaches a la Royale . 


50S 


CARLSBAD Sauce .... 


7 


CHAUDFROID, Brown, Sauce for 




CARROT Ginger .... 


581 


Lobster a la Boulevard 


51 


Syrup for 


581 


Eggs in, a la Rressoire . 


232 


Jam ..... 


581 


Ragout for 


233 


CARROTS a la Brunswick 


386 


for Lamb Cutlets a l'Espagne 


221 


a la Flamande 


383 


Lamb Cutlets in . 


220 


a Tlnd .... 


385 


Little Tongues in . 


231 


a la Maiden 


385 


of Chicken with Truffles 


224 


a la Rosina 


386 


Chicken with Vegetables . 


225 


Paste Case for 


386 


Sauce for . 


225 


and Turnips, for Sirloin of Beef il- 




Pigeon a la Castillanne 


243. 


ia Pompadour .... 


366 


Sauce a la Chatelaine . 


599 


for Braised Joints .... 


618 


Bechamel ..... 


600 


New, a la Francaise 


384 


Brown 


600 


Paste Cases for 


884 


Fiwn-Coloured 


600 


Pickled 


594 


CHEESE, Bechamel, Sauce 


6 


Salad of , 


387 


for Gnocchi a la Francaise 


5 12 


CASE, Paste, for Carrots a la Rosina . 


386 


Cakes, Lemon .... 


529 


CASES, Crystallised Chestnuts in 


166 


Crab 


38 


Flower, a la Creme 


186 


Crab-apple .... 


5 S3, 


for Timbal a la Comorin 


239 


Cream of, a Flmperatrice 


38 


Little Balls in ... . 


468 


Profiteroles with 


56 


Little, a la Breteuil 


541 


Sauce. .... 


8 


Ragout for 


nil 


Croustades with . 


39 


a la Duohesse Marie . 


468 


Croutons with 


609 


a la Florence 


213 


Custard for Profiteroles, &o. . 


615 


a la Moderne 


309 


Eggs on the Plate with 


289 


-Mayonnaise for 


309 


^Fleur in Surprise . 


39 


a la Strasbourg . 


. 36 


Little, Mousses a la Naples . 


. 316 


Herring Roes in , 


. 48 


Mixture for Centre of 


of Chicken a la Midas 


. 228 


Moulds for 


. 316 


Sweetbread a la St. Clair 


. 158 


Tomato Puree for . 


. 3,16 


Ragout for 


. 158 


Patties of, a laTorento 


. 550 


Vanilla, Cream in 


. 509 


Tomato Puree for . 


. 551 


Various Hors dXEuvres in 


. 50 


Paste 


615 


Nougat in ... . 


. 579 


Pastry a la Strohl . 


. 550 


Paste, for Carrots a la Francaise 


. 384 


Patties, Little 


. 5 19 


Tendons in, a l'Estragon 


. 152 


Potatoes with 


. 400 


CASHEWS a la Liable 


. 36 


Potted, a la Vienne 


. 40 


CASSEROLE, Chicken in . 


. 321 


Puree ..... 


. 604 


CASSOLETTES, Little, a, l'Am 




Salad a la Suisse . 


. 414 


bassade .... 


. 36 


Sauce for Cutlets a la Suffeen 


. 147 


CAULIFLOWER a la Nimes . 


. 387 


Savoury Custard for Soup . 


. 61 5 


Sauce for 


. 387 


Short Paste .... 


. 611 


Salad 


. 388 


Soup 


. 67 


CAULIFLOWERS a la Peine . 


. 388 






CAVIAR a la Vefour . 


. 37 


CHERRIES, Brandy . 


. 682 


Puree for 


. 38 


Compote of, for Cold Entries 


. 582 


Devilled .... 


. 37 


Hot Entrees . 


. 581 


with Herbs .... 


. 37 


Sweets . 


. 582 


CELERY, Fondue of . 


. 389 


Fillets of Hare Larded, with 


. 194 


Kidneys with 


. 264 


for Sultana Sponge Jelly 


. 501 


Shreds for Chevet Sauce 


8 


CHERRY Jam .... 


. 582 


Stuffing. .... 


. 618 


Sauce ..... 


. 31 


CHAMPAGNE Sauce 


7 


CHERVIL, Tarragon and, for Soup 


. 619 


Boiled Chicken 


CHESTNUT Cream . 


. 509 


and 


. 333. 


for Marguerite Past 


ry 530 



s s 2 



628 



MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 





F-AGE 


CHESTNUT Cream for Timbal a la 




Christina 


483 


Puree, Braised Turkey and Mous- 




seline Oyster Sauce with . 


345 


Salad a la Graham 


413 


Sauce for 


413 


Soup . . . 


<;- 


CHESTNUTS, Crystallised, in Cases 


466 


for Artichoke Bottoms a la Valen- 




tine 


381 


Timbal of, a la Cannes . 


480 


Vanilla Cream for . 


481 


CHEVALIER Cakes .... 


479 


CHEVET Sauce 


8 


Celery Shreds for 


8 


CHICAGO Dough-nuts 


556 


CHICKEN a la Bechamel . 


333 


a la Cannes 


334 


a la Chanceliere 


335 


Farce for . 


336 


Timbals for 


336 


Tomatoes for 


336 


a la Chasseur . 


161 


a la Financiere . 


340 


a la Minute 


162 


Sauce for . 


163 


a la Rubanee . 


163 


a la Savoy 


340 


a la Toulouse . 


338 


Quenelles for 


338 


a la Virginie . . . 


163 


Croutons for 


164 


and Little Tongues a la Viennoise 


338 


Farce for . 


339 


Tongues for . 


339 


au R6veil 


337 


Tongues for 


337 


Boiled, a la Napolitaine 


333 


and Champagne Sauce 


333 


Braised, and Nouilles . 


341 


Chaudfroid of, with Truffles . 


224 


Vegetables . 


225 


Sauce for . 


225 


Cream of, a l'OEuf 


172 


a la Reine . . 166 


, 172 


for Egg a la Millais . 


234 


Curried, a l'Anglaise 


321 


a la Marie 


223 


Cutlets, a la Nimoise . 


164 


Cream for . 


164 


Sauce for . 


165 


a la Reine 


166 


Chicken for 


166 


Cream for . 


163 


Tongue Puree for 


166 


and Sauce Rubanee 


165 


Dormers ..... 


168 


Ragout for .... 


168 


Farced, with Ox Tongue 


341 


Fillets of, a la Marechal 


167 


Sauce for 


167 


for Moulds . 


621 


Ham and, a la Douglas . . 


373 


Garnishing for 


374 


in Casserole 


321 


Little Cases of, a la Midas . 


228 


Creams of, a la Francillon . 


113 


a la Gastronome 


225 


Ham Puree for 


226 



CHICKEN, Little Mousses of 
Little Patties of, a la 



r.M.i: 

174 



Man- 

celle 519 

Puree for . 520 

Ragout for . 520 

Souffles of, Cold ... 29 

Zephyrs of, with Peas . . 73 

Puree a la Chevet ... 22 

Garnish for . . . 322 

a la Napolitaine . . 67 

for Crofites a la Bruyere . . 314 

Sandwiches a la Fiane . 426 

Sandwiches a la Victoria . 431 

Roast, a la Biarritz . . 339 

. Salmis of, a la Regence . .175 

Croustades for . 1 75 

Border for . .176 

Sauted, a la Dupre , . .161 

Croutons for . .162 

Slices of, a la Diable . . .322 

Souffles, Little Poached . . 174 

Supreme of, a l'Esprance . .170 

Cucumber for . 171 

in Blanquette . . 227 

Border for . . .228 

Sauce for . . .228 

Timbal of, a la Reginald . . 226 

Sauce for . . 227 

Turban of, a la Piemontaise . 168 

Farce for . .169 

a la Venitienne . .169 

Savoury farce for 170 

White farce for 

masking . 170 

CHICKENS, Little, a lTmpenale . 176 

Puree for . 177 

a la Renaissance 229 

Olives for . 230 

Puree for . 230 

Ragout for . 230 

a la St, George . 1 76 

Sauce for . 176 

Ragofit for . 176 

Tongues and, a la 

d'Orleans . 231 

CHICORY Salad . . . .415 

Dressing for ..... 415 

CHIPS, Pineapple . . . .589 

CHOCOLATE Ballettes . . .452 

Bartlett, Tea Cake . . .556 

Cold Sauce ... .31 

Cream for Bavaroise a l'lmpS- 

riale 507 

Custard for Little Creams a la 

Marguerite . . 448 
T imbala la Versailles 514 
Glace for Cakes, &c. . . .616 
Meringue Mixture . . .614 
Pudding with Fruits . . . 437 
Puree for Vienna Cream . . 510 

Souffle 446 

Vanilla Sauce .... 29 
CLAHET Jelly with Vanilla Cream . 497 
Compote for . . . 498 
CLARIFIED Stock for Raised Fish 

Pie a lTmpe>iale . . . 536 
CLAUDINE Sauce .... 8 
CLEAR Soups .... 58-63 

CLEMENTINE Sauce ... 8 



OF EXTRA. RECIPES INDEX 



6^9 



COCKSCOMBS for Entrees, to cook 
COCOANUT Drops .... 

Pound Cake 

Queen, Cakes .... 
Sauce for Escalopes of Sweetbread 
a Li Munich .... 
COD, Fillets of, a la Sandringham 
Sauce for . 
a la Victoria 

Sauce for . 
CODFISH with Black Butter . 
COFFEE, Maraschino and, Glace for 

Little Cakes a l'Alexandra 
COLD Chicken, Little Souffles of 

Chocolate Sauce .... 
Cream of Lobster in Ragout 

Garnish for .... 
Diplomat Pudding 

Entrees 

Compote of Cherries for 
Fancy Sweets 
Lobster Sauce 
Macedoine of Fruits 
Mousseline Sauce (Savoury) 
(Sweet)" . 



PAOB 

597 
578 
555 
563 

157 
79 
79 
80 
80 
79 



563 

. 229 
. 31 
. 88 
. 88 
. 515 

219-268 
. 582 

467-493 
. 26 

. 26 
. 32 
. 32 
26-27 

30-32 
. 27 



Orange S 

Sauoes . 

Sweet Sauces 

Tomato Ft 

Turkey a la Grand Duche 

COLLARED Calfs Head . . . 323 

Puree for . . . 324 

Gravy for . . . 324 

COLLOPS, Scotch .... 273 

COLOURED Whipped Cream . .614 

COMMODORE Sauce ... 9 

COMPOTE for Apples a la 

d'Orleans 466 

of Cherries for Cold Entices . 582 

Hot Entrees . .581 

Sweets . . . 682 

French Plums .... 590 

Medlars for Medlar Jelly . . 499 

Melon a la Creme . . . 508 

Pears 588 

Plums for Claret Jelly, with 
Vanilla Cream . . .498 

Rhubarb 590 

Strawberries for inside Omelet . 444 
CONFEDERATE Cake . .556 

CONSOMME for Moulds for Entrees 621 

CONTI Sauce 9 

COQ.UILLES a la Venitienne . . 296 

Sauce for . . 297 

Little, a la Mondaine . . . 320 

.Mushrooms for . . 320 

Puree for . . .321 

CORN, American Salad . . .410 

Sauce for .... 410 

Bread 575 

COUNTRY Captain . . . .313 

Croutons for . . . .313 

Fried Onions for . . . .313 

COUPOLE Navarine . . . .480 

COURT Bouillon, Perch with . . 306 

COURTE Sauce 9 

Larded Capercailzie and . . 349 

CRAB Apple Cheese . . . .583 

Apples, Bottled . . . .583 



l'AGK 

CRAB, Bomb of, a la Belle Helene . 260 
Curried Vegetables 

for . . . 261 

Mousse Mixture for 261 

Cheese 38 

Dressed 80 

Sauce 26 

Timbal of, a la Rosette. . . 81 

Puree for . . 82 

CRANBERRY Jelly . . . 601 
CRAYFISH a l'Armcnienne, Omelet 

with . 284 

Sauce for . . 284 

a la Bordelaisc . . 304 

a la Pandore . . . 202 

Sauce for . 203 

a la Parisi. ime . 305 

Farce for . 805 

s.i uce for . . 305 

Butter 608 

Fritot of, a la Cleveland . 281 

Mushrooms and Bacon 

for . . 281 

a la Richelieu . . 280 

Garnish for Turbot a la Chambord . 119 

on Croutons, Eggs with . . 290 

(Prawns) a la Gelee . . .10 

Puree 606 

CREAM a la Dauphine . . til) 
a la Ferdinand . . . 69 
a l'lndienne .... 237 
Cream for mould tor . 237 
Garnish for . . 237 
Sauce for . . . l'37 
a la Meque . . . .511 
a la Milton .... 70 
alaNid . . . .512 
Blancmange for . . 512 
a la St. Louis . . .70 
a la Vincent . . . .511 
Apricot, for Apricot Cakes in Sur- 
prise 470 

Aspic, for Border for Larks a la 

Sotterville . . 246 

Timbal a la Palmeira . 242 

Brandy Sauce .... 30 

Snaps with . . . 469 

Buckwheat Cakes .... 554 

Buns 572 

Cheese Sauce .... 8 

Chestnut 50!) 

for Marguerite Pastry . 530 

Timbal a la Christina . 483 
Chicken, for Chicken Cutlets a la 

Reine . . . L66 

Egg a la Millais . 234 
Chocolate for Bavaroise it l'lmpe- 

riale 507 

Coloured Whipped . . . (Ill 

Egg, Sandwiches with . . . 425 

Egyptian 253 

Purees for .... 254 

Ferneuse ... 69 

Fish, a la Met z . . . .127 

for Bavaroise a l'lmperiale . . 507 

Egg a la Mille Fruits . . 484 

Fleur of Apples a la Creme . 528 

Garnish for Vienna Cream . 510 

Little Neapolitan Jellies . . 196 



630 



MRS. A. R. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 



REAM for Little Piccolo Jellies 


496 : 


CREAMS, Little Asparagus, a la 




for Mould for Cream a l'Indienne\ 


237 ! 


Val-la-Reine . 


255 


New Potatoes a la Creme 


403 


Glasses for 


255 


Lemon, Pudding .... 


441 


Little Chicken, a la Gastronome . 


225 


Sauce for .... 


442 


Ham Puree for . 


226 


Lobster 14,87 


of Asparagus a la Montreuil . 


212 


Fillets of Haddock with . 


87 


Sauce for . 


213 


Sauce, Fillets of Plaice with . 


96 


Beef 


137 


Maraschino, for Bavaroise a la 




Farce for .... 


138 


Pompadour .... 


605 


Chicken a la Francillon . 


173 


Mixture for Souffle of Foie Gras a 




for garnishing Hams a la 




la Montreal .... 


252 


Douglas 


374 


of Cheese a l'lmperatrice 


38 


Fish with White Wine Sauce . 


127 


Chicken a l'CEuf 


172 


Farce f or . 


128 


a la Peine . . . 


172 


Oysters a la Sieges . 


200 


for Cutlets a la Nimoise . 


164 


Sauce for 


200 


Hare a la Ferdinand 


247 


Partridge a la Monza 


182 


a la Vatican 


193 


Puree for . 


182 


Sauce for . . . 


194 


Sauce for 


182 


Lobster (Cold) in Ragout 


88 


Vanilla and Pineapple 


503 


Garnish for . . . 


88 


Vegetables a la Potsdam . 


406 


Pheasant with Truffles 


179 


Whiting a la Royale 


123 


Sauce for .... 


180 


Sauce for . 


124 


Rabbit a la Duxelle . 


247 i 


of Rabbit a PAmbassadrice . 


196 


Garnish for . 


248 


Cucumber for . 


197 


Puree for 


248 


Farce for . 


197 


a la Ruthven 


248 J 


Sauce for . 


197 


Cucumber for 


249 ' 


CREAMY Puree of Potatoes . 


606 


Puree for 


249 i 


CREOLE Cutlets . . . . 


14:$ 


Tomatoes a la Papillon . 


256 j 


CREPINETTES a la Belgrave . 


207 


Puree for . 


256 


a la Parisienne 


207 


Turnips, French Beans with . 


382 


Sauce for 


208 


Whiting with White Wine 


122 


a la Villageoise 


208 


Pineapple ..... 


516 


Ragout for 


209 


Pistachio, for Bavaroise a la Pom- 




of Duck with Peas 


206 


padour 


504 


Salsifies .... 


404 


Pompadour 


510 


CROQUETTES, Small Potato . 


619 


Cream for Garnish for . 


510 


CROTJST ADES for Salmis of Chicken 




Rice, Beignets .... 


454 


a la Regence 


175 


Soum, and Iced Orange 




Little, a la Cleveland . 


203 


Sauce .... 


446 


Ragout for . 


203 


Rubanee ..... 


507 


a la Creme Montglas . 


522 


Sauce with Fine Herbs 


10 


Ragout for . 


522 


Strawberry, for Bavaroise a la 




a l'ltalienne 


. 205 


Pompadour .... 


505 


a la Macaire 


. 42 


Tomato 


620 


a la Marquise 


. 451 


Sauce .... 


27 


Pistachio Custard for 


. 451 


Vanilla, Claret Jelly with . 


497 


a la Nassau 


. 203 


for Apples a la d'Orleans . 


466 


a la Venitienne . 


. 204 


Timbal of Chestnuts a la 




Ham Puree for . 


. 205 


Cannes 


481 


of Calf's Brains 


. 518 


in Little Cases . . 


509 


Ragout for 


. 519 


Vienna 


. 509 


Brains Devilled . 


. 324 


Chocolate Puree for . 


. 510 


Fish .... 


. 128 


Cream for Garnish for 


. 510 


Ragout for . 


. 128 


CREAMS a la Marmotte . 


. 40 


Sauce for . 


. 128 


Shells for . 


. 41 


Game a la Bristol . 


. 198 


a la Polignac 


. 310 


Ragout for . 


. 199 


Jellies and, to turn out 


. 494 


a la Normande . 


. 197 


Little, a la Beatrice 


. 41 


with Cheese 


. 39 


a la Dugliere 


. 310 


CROUTES a la Bruyere 


. 313 


a la Malet . 


. 300 


Purees for 


. 314 


a la Marguerite . 


. 448 


Ragout for 


. 314 


Chocolate Custard 


a la Buckingham 


. 297 


for 


. 448 


a la Freiburg . 


. 43 


a la Pothuau 


. 254 


a la Jessamine 


. 294 


a la Richelieu . 


. 41 


Puree for . 


. 294 


a la Sylvie 


. 30Q. 


a la Langham . 


. 315 


a la Torento 


. 42 


Sauce for . 


. 315 



OF EXTRA RECIPES INDEX 



G3I 



PAGE 

CROUTES a la Madeleine . . . 299 

a la Marjorie . . . 300 

a, la Nannette ... 43 

a la Prusse . . .308 

Sauce for . . . 309 

Anchovy, a la Francaise . . 33 

Anchovy Puree for . 33 

Appetit Sild on . . .35 

Puree for . . . .">5 

with Lax a la Norvegienne . . 50 

CROUTON for Calf's Head a la 

Francaise 371 

CROUTON'S a la Julienne with clear 

and thick Soups . . . 610 

Vegetables for . 610 

Crayfish on, Eggs with . . . 290 

for Chicken a la Virginie . ,164 

Country Captain . . .319 

Eggs a la Dunbar . . .291 

Puree for . . .291 

Sauted Chicken a la Dupre . 162 

with Cheese 609 

Oysters for Soups . . .610 

Puree or Clear Soups . . 609 

CRYSTALLISED Chestnuts in Cases 466 

Violets S98 

CUCUMBER and Artichokes for Neck 

of Lamb 359 

and Lemon Garnish for Cutlets of 

Pigeons a l'lmperialc . . .187 
Farced with Marrow . . . 390 
for Cream of Rabbit a la Kuthven 249 
Creams of Rabbit a l'Arn- 

bassadrice .... 197 
Fillets of Veal a la St. 
Lawrence . . . .152 

Salmon 618 

Supreme of Chicken a l'Ksper- 

ance 171 

Turban a la Jessamine . . 216 

Peas for Soup, kc .... 618 

Puree forSalmonMousseala Dagmar 106 

for Timbal a la St. Agnes . 215 

Salad for Salmon, &c. . . . 618 

CUCUMBERS a la Brabant . . 389 

CUPS, Turnip, for Meats, &c. . . 620 

CURRANT Buns . .671 

(Black) Jam . . .580 

(Red) Jam 581 

(Red) and Raspberry Jam . . 590 
(White) Jam . . . . 68 1 

CURED Bacon 596 

Hams (Westphalia) . . . 596 

CURRIED Chicken a L'Anglaise . 321 

a la Marie . . 223 

Eggs in Surprise a la Poonah . 289 

Sauce for . . 289 

Pish ilia Durrand. . . . 311 

Mushrooms 393 

Prawns and Onions . . 305 

Rabbit a la Madras . . . 278 

(Dry) a la Mango . , . 278 

Tripe a l'Ind 329 

Vegetables for Bomb of Crab a la 

Belle Helene . . 261 

Iced 407 

CURRIES, Breakfast, and Luncheon 
Dishes and .... 264-332 



CURRY, Fillets of Sole in, a la Midas 
Sauce for 
for Timbal a la Comorin 
Mixture for Timbal a la Palmeira 
Oysters in, a la Zola 
Pur6e for Egyptian Cream . 
Sauce for Eggs a la Diable . 
for Eggs in Surprise a la Poonah 

CUSSY Sauce 

CUSTARD, Almond . . . . 
Cheese, for Profiteroles, kc. . 

Savoury, for Soup . 
Chocolate, for Alexandra Pudding 
Bombs a la Milan 
Fleur with Pis 

tachios 
Little Creams a la 

Marguerite 
Maids of Honour 
Mosaic Jelly . 
Timbal i\ la Ver 
sallies 
Pistachio, for Little Croustades 

la Marquise 
Savoury, for Croustades, &c. . 
Btrasburg .... 

Strawberry, for Timbal ;\ la Ver 

sailles .... 

Vanilla, for Timbal a la Versailles 
CUTLETS ;\ la Silesienne . 
Beef, a la Moltke . 
Ragout for 
a la Portugaise 
Breakfast .... 
Chicken a la Nimoise . 
Cream for 
Sauce for . 
B la Reiite 
Chicken Cream for 

Chicken for 
Tongue, Puree for 
and Sauce Rubanee 

Creole 

Lamb, a l'Angelique 
Sauce for 
a la Chatelaine . 
a l'Espagne 

Chaudfroid for . 
a la Ratisbon 
a la Suffeen 

Cheese Sauce for. 
Sparghetti for 
Tomatoes for 
in Chaudfroid 
Lobster, a la Clarence . 
Mutton, a l'Alexandra . 
Rice for . 
a l'Ancienne . 

Spanish Onions for 
a la Barigoule . 
a la Camerani . 
a l'Ecossaise . 
Sauce for . 
a la Lucine 
a la Maintenon 
a la Montpensier 
a la Sullivan . 
a la Viennoise . 
in Timbal a la Fran<;aise 



PAGE 

113 
114 

238 

242 

93 

254 
290 

28!) 

i(y 

.-.02 
615 
615 
434 
314 

62 1 

lis 
r>2:> 
198 

514 

451 
616 

482 

E I r> 
515 
880 
L36 

136 
137 
331 
164 
161 
L65 
166 
166 
166 
166 
165 
143 
146 
146 
219 
820 
221 
221 
147 
147 
147 
147 
220 
88 
140 
141 
141 
141 
142 
142 
143 
144 
144 
144 
145 
147 
148 
222 



632 



MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK. 



CUTLETS, Mutton, in Timbal a la 

Franchise, Puree for . . . 223 

Salad for . . .223 

of Oysters a la Creme . . .201 

Sauce for . . 201 

Peas a la Comte de Paris . . 395 

Pigeon a l'lmperiale . . .186 

Garnish for . . 187 

a la Lucine . . .187 

a la Piemontaise . . 187 

Quails a la Greville . . .183 

Puree for . .184 

Eeform, of Mutton a la Francaise 145 

Salmon, a la Bergen ... 98 

Veal, a la Jardiniere . . . 326 

CZARINA Sauce .... 10 



DamSONS, Preserved . . .583 

DANTZIC Jelly 495 

DELMONICO Cake . . .479 

Mixture for .... 480 

DEVILLED Biscuits . . . .35 

Calfs Brains, Croustades of . . 324 

Caviar 37 

^Muscatels ..... 52 
Slices of Game .... 312 

Sole 108 

DIPLOMAT Pudding . .437 

Cold . . . .515 
DISHES and Curries, Breakfast and 

Luncheon .... 261-332 
Meagre, Dressed Vegetables and 376-408 

. 168 
. 168 
. 391 
. 556 
. 562 
. 80 
79-131 



DORMERS, Chicken, 

Ragout for 
with Lettuce a la Turque 
DOUGH -NUTS, Chicago . 

Philadelphia . 
DRESSED Crab . 

Fish and Fish Entrees . 

Vegetables and Meagre Dishes 376-408 

DRESSING for Chicory Salad . .415 

for Herring Salad a la Leopold . 419 

Salad a la Beatrice . . . 413 

a la Suedoise . . .423 

of Roes a la Meuniere . 418 

DRIPPING for Frying, to Clarify . 622 

DRY Curried Rabbit a la Mango . 278 

DUCK a la Provencale . . . 342 

Farce for . . . . 343 

a la Rosney . . . .199 

Crepinettes of, with Peas . . 206 

Soup a la Rowen .... 67 

DUNBAR Cream .... 68 

Sauce 291 



EaGLE, Spread . . . .323 

ECLAIRS, a la Palmerston . . 316 

Vanilla . . . . . .492 

EEL a la Broche 82 

Puree for .... 82 

a l'Epicurien .... 84 

a la Florentine .... 84 

a la Garrick . . . . 8C 

Puree for . . . .84 



EEL a la Jardiniere with Green Sauce 
a la Polignac 
Farce for 
a la Vincent 
in Jelly a la Dieppe . 
Farce for. 
in Terrine . 

Paupiettes a la Francaise 
EELS, Souchet of, a la Berlin 
EGG a la Millais . 

Chicken Cream for 
Tongue for . 
Truffle; for . 
a la Mille Fruits . 
Cream for 
Maccdoine for 
Paste for 
Butter .... 
Cream, Sandwiches with 
for Bombs a la Visapore 
Garnish for Little Coquilles 
(Fink) for Clear Soups, &c. 
(White) for Clear Soups, &c. 
(Yellow) for Clear Soups, &c 

Puree 

for Sandwiches a la Louise 
Sauce .... 
Roast Partridges and 
EGGS a la Chambord . 
a la Diable 

Curry Sauce for 
a la Dunbar 

Croutons for 

Puree for . 
Sauce for . 
a la Lantry 
a la Reine 
a la Wellington 
and Baron a la Miriette 
Blanquette of, a la Napier 

Sauce for 
Curried, in Surprise a la Poonah 

Sauce for 
in Chaudfroid a la Bressoire 

Ragout for 
on the Plate with Cheese 
Plovers', a la Marie 

Sauce for 
a la Navarre . 
Aspic for . 
in Aspic a la Victoria 
Rockaway 

Sandwiches, with Watercress and 
Small, for Garnish for Cream a 

l'lndienne . 
with Crayfish on Croutons 
Pistachio Nuts 
EGYPTIAN Cream . 

Purees for . 
Salad .... 
Seasoning for meat for 
ENTREES, Cockscombs for, to 
Cold . . . . 

Compote of Cherries for 
Fish, Dressed Fish and 
Hot . 

Compote of Cherries for 
EPIGRAMS of Mutton a la Coblentz 
of Turbot a la Moderne 



r\<;i: 

85 

85 

85 

86 

83 

83 

319 

86 

86 

233 

_>:; i 

384 

234 

483 

484 

484 

484 

608 

ILT) 

257 

613 

613 

613 

613 

604 

429 

11 

349 

290 

290 

220 

29*1 

291 

291 

291 

292 

292 

293 

21)2 

293 

293 

289 

289 

232 

233 

289 

218 

218 

293 

294 

234 

76 

432 

237 

290 

442 

253 

254 

416 

416 

597 

219-263 

. 582 

79-131 

132-218 

. 581 

148 

119 



cook 



OF EXTRA RECIPES INDEX 



600 
00 



ESCALOPES of Calfs Head a la 


l'AOK 


FARCE, Mock Foie Gras, or Liver, for 




Tuileries . 


152 


Souffle a la Montreal . 


253 


Sauce for . 


153 


of Pork or Beef for Terrine of Hare 




of Pigeons ;\ la Lisbonne 


242 


a la Francaise .... 


277 


Sweetbread a, la Helene . 


156 


Oyster Souffle Mixture for Birds . 


603 


a la Lombarde 


156 


Plain, for Turkey (Cold) &0. . 


602 


Ragout for 


157 


Salmon, for Fillets of Sole a la 




a la Munich . 


157 


Joinville 


115 


Sauce for 


157 


Turbans, &c. . 


604 


ESTOUFFADE Sauce 


11 


Savoury, for Turban of Chicken a 




EXCELLENCE Sauce for Fillets of 




la Vc'nitienne .... 


170 


Whiting 


123 


White, for masking Turban of 








Chicken a la Vcnitienne . 


170 






FARCED Chicken with Ox Tongue . 


341 


FANCY Butter .... 






:; 1 1 


608 


FAT for Frying, to Prepare 


622 


FARCE, Beef, for Little Creams .if 




FAWN-Coloured Chaudi'roid Sauce . 


600 


Beef 


138 


FEET, Pigs', Fritot of, a la Clemen- 




Fish, for Border .... 


603 


tine . 


27!> 


Fillets of Talbot a l'lrn- 




a la Victor . 


279 


peratrice . 


121 


FILBERTS for Baba a la Parisienne 


47 1 


Pies . 


603 


FILLET of Peel a la Jussienne 


360 


for Border for Sweetbread a 11m- 




Sauce for 


361 


peratrice . 


1 55 


of Beef a I'Ostende 


361 


Chicken a la ( lhaneeliere 


336 


Ragout and Sauce for . 


362 


a la Viennoise . 


:;:;: 


a la Tonraine . 


363 


Cold Turkey. Fowls, &C. . 


601 


Artichoke Bottoms for 


364 


Crayfish a la Parisienne . 


306 


Tomatoes for 


364 


Creams of Rabbit a l'Ambas- 




Larded, with Tomato Pur6e 


364 


sadrice .... 


197 


with Salsifies 


360 


Duck a la Provencalc 


343 


FILLETS for Fillets of Herring en 




Eel a la Dieppe 


83 


Conronne 


46 


a la Polignac 


85 


(.irilled, tit' Beef a la Diable . 


132 


Fillets of Hare a la Due de 




Sauce tor 


132 


Raguse 


195 


Tomatoes for 


132 


Salmon a la 




Little, of Beef B la Moville . 


134 


Mouchy ' . 


103 


Ragout tor 


134 


Veal a la St. 




a la Valais 


136 


Lawrence . 


152 


of Salmon a la (iorgona 


102 


Galantine of Veal a la Fran- 




of Beef a la Canadienne 


132 


raise ..... 


372 


Sauce for . 


132 


Larks a la Czarina . 


193 


a la Carlsbad . 


133 


a la Sotterville 


246 


a la Claudine . 


133 


Little Creams of Fish 


128 


a la Mecklenburg 


134 


Fish a la Waddington . 


131 


a la Parisienne . 


362 


Pheasant a la Montansier 


317 


Sauce for . 


363 


Pigeons (Cnlil), fee. 


602 


Tomatoes for 


363 


Farced, with Truffles . 


362 


Farce for 


363 


Quails a la Mecklenburg. 


353 


a la Perigueux . 


269 


Rabbit a rEpicurienne 


;j<;5 


Sauce for . 


269 


Sheep's Feet a la Beige . 


151 


a la Princesse Louise 


270 


Shoulder of Lamb a la Nabob 


356 


Sauce for . 


270 


Solo a la Bon Homme 


10!) 


a la Piga .... 


134 


Timbal a la St. Agnes 


215 


a la Sardou 


135 


Tomatoes for Fillets of Beef a 




Sauted, a la Claudine . 


270 


la Parisienne . 


3(53 


Sauce for 


270 


Turban a la Bonanza 


189 


a la Pavsanne 


271 


a la Jessamine . 


216 


of Chicken a la Marechal 


167 


a la Piemontaise 


169 


Sauce for 


167 


Turkey, Chickens, &c. stuffed 




for Moulds .... 


621 


with Ox Tongue 


601 


Cod a la Sandringham 


79 


Ham or Tongue, for Chicken, &c. . 


602 


Sauce for 


79 


Hare, for Turbans, &c. . 


602 


a la Victoria 


80 


Liver, for Turban of Pigeon a la 




Sauce for . 


80 


Bonanza ..... 


1 89 


Haddock with Lobster Cream . 


87 


Lobster, for Fillets of Sole . 


603 : 


Hare a la Due de Raguse . 


194 


Marrow, for Cucumber . 


390 


Farce for ... 


195 


Mayonnaise Mixture, for Tomatoes 




Larded and Boast Larks . 


354 


a l'Americaine .... 


396 


with Cherries 


194 



634 



MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 







PAGE 


FILLETS of Herring a la Bremont . 


44 


a la Clarence . 


44 


a la Pearlin . 


307 


Puree for Mask- 




ing Bread for 


307 


a la Beginta . . 


47 


Ragout for 


47 


a la Rowen . 


47 


en Couronne . 


45 


Mixture for . 


46 


of Herring Marinaded a la Darm- 




stadt 


46 


on Brown Bread . . 


308 


Toast . 


48 


Mackerel a la Commodore 


91 


with Parsley Sauce . 


91 


Plaice with Anchovies a la 




Royale . 


96 


Lobster Cream 




Sauce . 


96 


Salmon a l'Alexandra 


101 


;\ la Mendip . 


102 


a la Mouchy . 


102 


Farce for 


103 


Sauce for 


103 


a la Roumanie 


103 


Garnish for . 


104 


Sauce for 


104 


in Paper a l'Anvers 


101 


Sole a la Brabant 


111 


a la Cardinal 




112 


a la Clementine 




113 


a la Corrente 




112 


Border for 




112 


Sauce for 




112 


a, la Grenade 




114 


Ragout for 




114 


a la Joinville 




114 


Farce for 




115 


a la Josephine 




115 


Sauce for 




116 


a la Napier 




116 


a la PyrSneenne 


117 


Ragodt for Centre of . 


117 


Sauce for . 


118 


a la Waleskie . . . 


118 


in Curry a la Midas 


113 


Sauce for . 


114 


Salad of, a l'lmperiale . 


260 


with Anchovy Butter . 


111 


Turbot a la Chartres 


121 


Sauce for 


121 


a rimperatrice 


120 


Farce for . 


121 


Sauce for . 


120 


Veal a la Boulanger . 


325 


Puree for . 


325 


a la St. Lawrence . . 


151 


Cucumber for 


152 


Farce for . 


152 


with Anchovy Butter 


326 


Whiting a l'Ambassade . 


122 


a l'Excellence . 


123 


Sauce for 


123 


FINANCIERE Garnish for Larks a 




la Sotterville . 


247 


Sauce ...... 


11 


FINE Herbs, Cream Sauce with 


10 


Fritot of Oysters 


with 


28 



FINE Herbs, Vegetable Marrow with 


PAGE 

405 


FINGERS, Almond . 


577 


FISH a la Creme 


126 


Balls a la Saratoga 




301 


Chartreuse of, a la Havraise . 




263 


Mixture for 


263 


Cream a la Metz . 




127 


Curried, a la Durrand . 




311 


Entrees, Dressed Fish and . 


79 


-131 


Farce for Border . 




603 


for Fillet of Turbot a 


l'lm- 




peratrice . , 


. 


121 


Pies .... 


# 


603 


Little, a la St. Pierre . 


# 


129 


a la Waddington 


. 


130 


Farce for 


. 


131 


Creams of, with White 


Wine 




Sauce . . . 




127 


Farce for 




128 


Croustades of . 




128 


Ragout for . 




L28 


Sauce for 




128 


Timbals of, a la Sultan 




129 


Puree for 




129 


Pie, Raised, a l'lmperiale 




535 


Stock for 




536 


Pudding 




.-,:;; 


Sauce for 




536 


Puree .... 




605 


for Crofites a la Jessamine 


294 


Fritot a la Milton 


283 


Sauce, Thin White, for Fillets of 




Turbot a rimperatrice 


120 


FLAGEOLETS a la Spencer . 


382 


Salad of, a la Francaise 




382 


FLANNEL, American, Cakes 




554 


FLETJR a la Florence 




485 


Cheese, in Surprise 




39 


of Apples a la Creme 




527 


Cream for 




528 


Pur6e for 




528 


and Almonds a la Vienne . 


528 


Paste for 


528 


Apricots 


526 


with Meringue 




523 


Pistachios 




526 


Custard for 




524 


Souffle Mixture for 




524 


Rhubarb a la Neige 




462 


FLORIDA Puddings, Little 




438 


Macedoine of Fruit for . 




438 


FLOWER Cases a la Creme 




485 


FLOWERS, Little . 




570 


Glace for . 




570 


Mixture for 




570 


FOIE GRAS a la Chateau Dore 


199 


Ballettes of, a l'lmperiale 


249 


Little Bouchees of, a la Russe 


250 


Garnish for 


250 


Salad for 


250 


Mock Pate de 


269 


Mousse of, a la Rossini . 


250 


Souffle of, a la Montreal 


252 


Cream Mixture for 


252 


Liver Farce for 


253 


Timbals of, a la Beatrice 


251 


FONDUE of Celery . . . . 


389 


FRIANTINES of Marrow a 1' Alsace 


139 


Sauce for 




139 



OF EXTHA RECIPES INDEX 



635 



FRENCH Bean Soup . 


I'ACK 

. 71 


Beans, Omelet with 




. 286 


Salad of, a la Flamande 




. 381 


with Cream of Turnips 




. 382 


Little, Cakes . 




. 557 


Creams a la d'Artois 




. 511 


Bavaroise for 




. 512 


Puree for . 




. 512 


Plums, Compote of 




. 590 


Salad .... 




. 416 


FRESH Truffles, to Cook . 




. 598 


FRIAR Tuck Soup . 




. 72 


FRIED Onions fcr Country Capl 


ain 


. 313 


Potatoes, New 




. 402 


Rolls a la Francaise 




. 455 


Sole and Smelts . 




. 108 


Garnish for 




108 


with Anchovy Butter 




107 


FRITOT a la Louise . 




283 


a la Milton . 




282 


Puree' for 




283 


a la Mongole 




284 


Pur6e for 




284 


a la Parisienne 




282 


a la Koyale . 




282 


a la Busse 




283 


a la St. Germain . 




281 


a. la St. Mark's . 




140 


Purge for 




1-10 


Mushrooms in 




892 


of Crayfish a la Cleveland 




281 


Mushrooms 


anc 


[ 


Bacon for 




. 281 


a la Richelieu 




280 


Herring Roes . 




280 


Oysters with Fine Herbs 




280 


Pig's Feet a la Beige 




i :,i i 


Faroe for 




151 


a la Clementine 




279 


a la Victor 




. 279 


Parte for 




279 


Tripe in, a la St. James 




328 


FRITTERS a la Saint-Denis 




156 


Apricot .... 




455 


Melon, with Pistachios . 




456 


FRUIT, Macedoine of, for Little 


Flor- 




ida Pudding 




438 


on Cakes a la Parisienne 




463 


Sauce for 




464 


Sauce .... 




31 


FRUITS a la Suedoise 




584 


Bottled without Sugar . 




584 


Chocolate Pudding with 




437 


Macedoine of, Cold 




585 


Hot 




585 


in Syrup 




584 


Vanilla Bavaroise with 




503 


Vol-au-vent with . 




533 


FRYING, Fat for, to Prepare 




622 


GrALANTINE of Veal a la Fran 




caise 


371 


Farce for 


372 


Gravy for . 


372 


GAME, Chartreuse of, a la Battenberg 


239 


Ragout foi 


239 


Sauc< 


i for 


239 



PAGE 

GAME, Croustade of, a la Normande 197 

Devilled Slices of, . . .312 

Little Croustades of, a la Bristol . 198 

Ragout for 199 

Puree of, for Little Coquilles a la 

Mondaine . . . .321 

Soup 73 

GARNISH, Artichoke Bottoms with 

Mayonnaise . . . .617 
Asparagus Peas . . . . 617 
Brains and Tongue, for Calf's Head 

a l'Andreani . . . 369 
Sauce for Mixing . 369 
Butter, for Salmon a la Fiord . 97 
Buttered Rice, for Chicken Purge 

a la Chevet . . . .322 
Button Onions .... 619 
Cabbage, Braised .... 617 

Carrots 618 

Crayfish, for Turbot a la Chambord 119 
Cream, for Pompadour Cream . 510 
Vienna Cream . .510 
Cucumber and Lemon, for Cutlets 

of Pigeon a l'lrnpgriale . . 187 

Egg, for Clear Soups, &c. . .613 

Little Coquilles, &c. . . 618 

Financiere.for Larks alaSotterville 247 

for Cream of Lobster in Ragout . 88 

Lobster a la Turque . . 90 

Mould, for Bavaroise a la 

Pompadour .... 505 
Perch Souchet ... 95 

Quenelles a la Jubilee . .218 
Green, for the Mould for Lobster 

a la St. Cloud . . . 303 

Little Creams of Chicken, for 

Hams a la Douglas . . 374 

Mushrooms 619 

Neapolitan 611 

Quenelles, for Salmon a la Rou- 

manie . . .104 

Red, for Little Bouchges of Foie 

Gras a la Russe . . 250 
for the Moulds for Lobster a 

laSt. Cloud. . . 303 

Reform 619 

Small Eggs for, Cream ii, l'lndi- 

enne 237 

Smelt, for Sole and Smelt Fried . 108 
Timbals, for Cream of Rabbit a la 

Duxelle . 248 

Neck of Lamb a la 
Duclair . . .359 
Tomato ...... 620 

Turnip Cups 620 

White, for the Mould for Lobster 

a la St, Cloud . . . 303 

GARNISHES, Vegetable . . 617-620 

GARNISHING Sauce, Mayonnaise . 600 

Potato Mavonnaise . . . 600 

GENEVA Rolls 577 

Sauce ...... 12 

GENOA Cake 558 

GENOISE Paste .... 557 

GINGER Biscuits .... 568 

Brandy . . . . . .585 

Carrot 581 

Syrup for 581 

GINGERBREAD Nuts . . 569 



636 



MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 



PAGE 

GIRONDE Sauce ... 12 

GLACE, Apricot, for Baba a la Paris- 

ienne ...... 475 

Mottled, for Little Flowers . . 670 
GLASSES, Little, for Asparagus 

Creams a la Val-la-Reine . . 255 
GLAZE, to Make . . . .621 

GLAZINGS. See ICINGS. 

GNOCCHI, a la Francaise . .541 

Cheese Bechamel for 542 

a l'ltalienne . . . 542 

Sauce for . . . 543 

GOOD MAN Sauce . . . .12 

GOOSEBERRY, Baked, Pudding . 450 

Jam 586 

Jelly 586 

Tartlets a la Creme . . .528 

GORGONA Sauce .... 25 

GRATIN, Slices of Ox Tongue au . 273 

GRAVY, for Calf's Head Collared . 324 

for filling up Pheasant Pie a la 

Francaise . ... . 538 
Galantine of Veal a la Fran- 
caise 372 

inside Quenelles for Larks a la 

Cologne . . . .191 
Patties a la Montrose . . 539 
Terrine Pie a la V6nitienne . 276 
GREEN Garnish for the Mould for 

Lobster a la St. Cloud . . 303 
Mayonnaise Aspic . . . 599 

Mousseline Sauce . . 17, 26 

Pea Soup 74 

Puree for Egyptian Cream . . 254 

Salad a la Bretonne . . .416 

Sauce for . . . 417 

Sauce 12 

Eel a la Jardiniere with . 85 

GREENGAGE Sauce . . . 2'.t 

GREENGAGES in Brandy . . 586 

Preserved ..... 585 

GRILLED Fillets of Beef a la Diable 132 

Sauce for . .132 

Tomatoes for . 132 

Kidneys a la Nesle . . . 264 

Oysters a la Virginie . . . 296 

Rump Steak and Capsicum Sauce 272 

GRISINI Biscuits . . . .577 

GROUSE a la Napier . . . .352 

Potted 274 



HaDDOCK, Fillets of, with Lobster 

Cream 87 

Slices of, with Butter . . . 298 

Souffle of, a la Bruxelloise . . 298 

with Oysters .... 297 

Sauce for .... 297 

HAM and Chicken a la Douglas . . 373 

Garnish for . 374 

Butter 609 

Farce 602 

or Tongue, Souffle of . . .211 
Puree for Chicken Creams a la 

Gastronome . . 226 
Croustades a la Veniti- 

enne . . .. 205 Jr 

Croutes a la Bruyere . 314 | 



FAOB 

HAM, Spanish 372 

Toast ...... 43 

York, a la Polonaise . . .372 

HAMS, Cured (Westphalia) . . 596 

Little, a la Chasseur . . .211 

HARE a la Bouquette . . .277 

Cream of, a la Ferdinand . 247 

a la Vatican . . .193 

Sauce for . .194 

Farce ...... 602 

Fillets of, a la Dae de Raguse . 194 

Farce for . .195 

Larded and Roast Larks . . 354 

with Cherries . 194 

Terrine of, a la Francaise . .277 

Farce for . .277 

HARICOT Bean Puree . . .606 

HEART, Ox, a la Francaise . . 274 

HERBS, Caviar with .... 37 

Fine, Cream Sauce with . . 10 
Fritot of Oysters with . . 280 
Vegetable Marrow with . 405 
HERRING, Fillets of, a la Bremont . 44 
a la Clarence . 44 
a la Pearlin . 307 
Puree for 307 
a la Reginta . 47 
Ragout for 47 
a la Rowen . 47 
en Couronne . . 45 
Fillets for . . 15 
Souffle Mixture for . 46 
Marinaded a la Darm- 
stadt . 46 
on Brown Bread . 308 
on Toast . . 48 
Roes a la Broche .... 307 

Puree for 308 

a l'lnd 48 

Puree for ... 49 

a la Mode .... 309 

Fritot of 280 

in Little Cases .... 48 

Salad of, a la Hamburg . . 417 

Salad a la Leopold . . . 419 

Dressing for. . .419 

HERRINGS, Marinaded 

a la Connaught . 44 

a la Mexique . . 306 

a la Ravigote . . 46 

a la Victor . . 349 

Salad of, a la Riga 418 

in White Wine . 418 

withWhite Wine 

a la Zartz . 418 

HOLSTEIN Soup .... 73 

HONOUR, Maids of . . . .529 

Custard for . . . 529 

HORS D'OSUVRES and Savouries 33-57 

HOT Entrees .... 132-218 

Compote of Cherries for . 581 

Macedoine of Fruits . . . 585 

Mousseline Sauce (Sweet) . . 30 

Salmon Souffle with Sauce 

Riche 105 

Sauces 1-24 

Sweet Sauces . . . 28-30 

Sweets and Puddings . . 433-456 

HUBERT Sauce 13 



OF EXTRA RECIPES INDEX 



637 



ACED Curried Vegetables 




PAGE 

. for 


JXABOBS, Mutton, a la Raipor 


e 


Orange Sauce, and Eice Cream 


KIDNEYS a la Berlin 


Souffle 


. 446 


Button Quenelles for . 


Slices of Pineapple 


. 463 


Sauce for . 


Syrup for 


. 463 


a la Dufferin 




Timbal for Quails a la Lesseps . 245 


a la Hamburg . 




" Tirnbals of Aspic for Plovers' 


Eggs 


a la Louisville . 




a la Navarre 


. 294 


Puree for . 




ICINGS .... 


616-17 


a 1' Orient . 




Apricot Glace for Cakes, &c. 


. 616 


Sauce for . 




Cbocolate Glace for Cakes, b 


c. . 616 


a la St. George . 




Orange Glace for Cakes, &c. 


. 616 


a la Treville ' . 




Red Glace for Cakes, &c. 


. 616 


Grilled, a la Nesle . 




Strawberry Glace for Cakes, 


&C. . 616 


Sheep's, Spanish Onions with 


Water Glace for Cakes . 


. 617 


with Celery . 




IMPERIAL Cake 


. 489 


with Oysters a l'Americaine 




Sauce .... 


. 13 


Sauce for 




ITALIAN Meringues . 


. 460 


KNUTSFOBD Cake . 




He .... 


. 538 


KRO ME SKIES a la Nemour 




Salad .... 


, 419 


Sauce for 




JAM, Apricot, Omelet with 


. 4 18 


a la Sultan 






. 582 


Puree for 




Currant (Red) and Raspberrj 


r . 590 




for Swiss Roll 


. 666 


IjAMB Cutlets a l'Angelique . 


Gooseberry . 


. 686 


Omelet .... 


. 44:: 


Sauce for 


Pineapple , 


. 589 


a la Chatelaine . 






a l'Espagne 


Raspberry and Red Currant 


. 590 


Cbaadfroid for 


Roll, Padding 


. 626 


a la llatisbon 


Strawberry . 


591, 592 


a la Sull'een . . 


Tomato .... 


. 692 


Sauce for 


Syrup for 


. 593 


Sparghetti for 


Vegetable Marrow 


. 587 


Tomatoes for 


JAMES, Saint, Pudding . 


. 438 


in Chaudfroid 


JELLIES and Creams, to Turn ( 


3ut . 494 


Neck of, a l'Anvers 


Little, with Strawberries 


. 497 


a la Duclair 


Piccolo 


. 496 


Garnish for 


Cream for 




. 496 


with Cucumber and Arti- 


Neapolitan . 




. 496 


choke Bottoms 


Cream for 




. 496 


Reast Leg of, Capsicum Sauce and 


JELLY, a la Carlton . 




. 494 


Shoulder of, a la Nabob 


a la Duchesse 




. 494 


Farce for . 


Calfs-foot . 




. 500 


LAEDED Capercailzie and Courte 


Clarel with Vanilla Cream . 


. 497 


Sauce ..... 


Compote of Plums for 


. 498 


Fillet of Beef with Tomato Puree 


Cranberry 


. 501 


Fillets of Hare and Roast Larks . 


Dantzic. 




. 49") 


Hare with Cherries 


* Eel in, i\ la Dieppe 




. 83 


LABKS a la Cologne .... 


Farce for 




8:; 


(Wavy for inside Quen- 


Gooseberry . 




. 686 


elles . . . . 


Lemon . 




, 494 


Sauce for 


Medlar . 




. 499 


a la Czarina .... 


Compote for . 




. 499 


Farce for 


Monte Carlo . 




. 495 


a la Reyniere 








a la Sotterville 


Custard for . 




. 49S 


Aspic Cream for Border 


Pineapple 




. 499 


Farce for 


Plum . 




. 502 


Garnish for . 


Puncb . 




. 496 


in Baskets 


Rowanberry . 




. 502 


Sauce for 


Syrup for 




. 502 


Roast, Fillets of Hare Larded and 


Russian . 




. 497 


LAVER Sauce 


Sultana Sponge 




. 500 


LAX a la Norve<nenne, ('routes with . 


Cberries for . 




. 501 


a la Russe ..... 


JUBILEE Quenelles . 




. 217 




Garnish for 




. 218 


LEG of Lamb, Roast, and Capsicum 


JULIENNE Sauce . 




. 13 


Sauce 


Vegetables for Croutons 




. 610 


of Mutton a la Bourguignotte . 



PAGE 

149 
169 
160 
159 
2G5 
265 
160 
161 
265 
266 
160 
266 
264 
257 
264 
266 
266 
B68 
209 
209 
209 
210 



1 16 
14(> 
219 
220 
221 
221 
147 
147 
147 
147 
220 
359 
369 
359 

358 
368 
356 
856 

349 
364 
354 
194 
190 

191 
191 
192 
193 
191 
245 
246 
246 
247 
189 
190 
354 
14 
50 
50 
609 

358 
355 



638 



MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 







PAGE 




PAGK 


LEMON Cheese Cakes . . 


529 


LITTLE Chickens a la d'Orleans 


232 


Cream Padding .... 


441 


a l'lmperiale 


176 


Sauce for .... 


442 


Puree for . 


177 


Cucumber and, Garnish for Cutlets 




a la Renaissance . 


229 


of Pigeon a l'lmperiale 


187 


Olives for , 


230 




494 


Pur6e for 


230 


Mixture for Little Nicolo Pudding 


440 


Ragout for 


230 


LETTUCE a la Turque, Dormers 




a la St. George 


176 




391 


Ragout for 


176 






391 


Sauce for 


176 


Salad a la Vienne . 




420 


Coquilles a la Mondaine . , 


320 


with Mayonnaise Sauce 


. 


420 


Mushrooms for 


320 


LILLY Pudding 


. 


513 


Puree for 


321 


Mixture for 




513 


Creams a la Beatrice . 


41 


LITTLE Alexandra Cakes . 




552 


a la Dugliere . 


310 


Glace for . 




553 


a la Malet 


300 


Puddings 




434 


a la Marguerite 


448 


Custard for 


. 


434 


Custard for 


448 


Sauce for . 




434 


a la Pothuau . 


254 


Apricot Cakes in Surprise 


, , 


470 


a la Richelieu . 


41 


Apricot Cream for 




470 


a la Sylvie 


300 


Mixture for 


. 


470 


a la Torento 


42 


Asparagus Creams a la Val-la- 




of Asparagus a la Mon- 




Reine . 


255 


treuil .... 


212 


Glasses for . . . 


255 


Sauce for . 


213 


Baden-Baden Cakes 




526 


Beef 


137 


Balls in Cases 




468 


Farce for ... 


138 


Baskets a la Lavenue . 




478 


Chicken a la Francillon 


173 


a la Toulouse . 




214 


for Garnishing Hams 




Ragout for 


. 


214 


a la Douglas 


374 


Beatrice Cakes 




486 


Fish with White Wine 




Mixture for 




487 


Sauce . 


127 


Paste for . 




487 


Farce for . . . 


128 


Bombs a la Beatrice 




217 


Oysters a la Sieges . 


200 


a la Milan . 




314 


Sauce for 


200 


Custard for . 




314 


Partridge a la Monza 


182 


a la Visapore 




256 


Pure for . 


182 


Egg for 




257 


Sauce for . 


182 


Ragoftt for . 




257 


Vanilla and Pineapple 


503 


of Lobster a la Berlin 




261 


Vegetables a la Potsdam . 


406 


Pur6e for 


262 


Whiting a la Royale . 


123 


Oysters a la Versailles 


259 


Sauce for 


124 


Pur6e for 


259 


Croustades a la Cleveland 


203 


Bouch6es a la Paysanne 


315 


Ragout for . 


203 


Macaroni for . 


316 


a la Creme Montglas . 


522 


Sauce for 


315 


Ragout for . 


522 


of Foie Gras a la Russe 


250 


a l'ltalienne . 


205 


Garnish for 


250 


a la Macaire 


42 


Salad for . 


250 


a la Marquise 


451 


Brioches a la Vienne 


331 


Custard for . 


451 


Puree for . 




332 


a la Nassau . 


203 


Cases a la Breteuil 


. 


541 


a la VSnitienne . 


204 


Ragout for . 




541 


Pur6e for 


205 


a la Duchesse Marie 




468 


of Calf's Brains . 


518 


a la Florence 




213 


Ragout for . 


519 


a la Moderne 




309 


Fish 


128 


Mayonnaise for 


. 


309 


Ragout for 


128 


a la Strasbourg . 


. 


36 


Sauce for . 


128 


of Chicken a la Midas 




228 


Game a la Bristol . 


198 


Sweetbread a la St. Clair 


158 


Ragout for . 


199 


Ragout for . 


158 


Fillets of Beef a la Moville . 


134 


Vanilla Cream in 


509 


Ragout for . 


134 


Cassolettes a l'Ambassade . 


36 


a la Valais . 


136 


Cheese Mousses a la Naples . 


316 


of Salmon a la Gorgona . 


102 


Mixture for . 


316 


Fish a la St. Pierre 


129 


Pur6e for 


31 


a la Waddington . 


130 


Patties 


549 


Farce for 


131 


Chicken Creams a la Gastronome . 


225 


Florida Puddings .... 


438 


Puree fo 


r 


226 


Macedoine of Fruit for . 


438 



OF EXTRA RECIPES INDEX 



639 



[TTLE Flowers .... 


PAGB 

570 


Glace for .... 


570 


Flowers, Meringue Mixture for 


570 


French Cakes .... 


557 


Creams a la d'Artois 


511 


Banana Puree 




for 


512 


Bavaroise for 


512 


Glasses for Asparagus Creams a la 




Val-la-Reine .... 


225 


Hams a la Chasseur 


211 


Jellies with Strawberries 


497 


Lobster Patties a la Creme . 


522 


Ragout for . 


523 


Mannheim Breads 


:,!?> 




461 


Almonds for .... 


461 


Mousses of Chicken 


174 


Partridge a la Magenta 


181 


Salmon a la Nantaise . 


202 


Mixture for 


202 


Sauce for . 


202 


Neapolitan Jellies 


196 


Cream for 


496 


Neva Balls 


467 


Mixture for 


167 


Pur6e for 


467 


Cakes 


562 


Nicolo Puddings .... 


410 


Nougat Baskets a la Duchesse 


1st 


a la Durer . 


487 


Pastry Straws a la Verdun . 


547 


Puree for. 


548 


Patties a la Montrose . 


;-):!'.) 


Gravy for . 


.-.:;:> 


Ragout for . 


539 


of Cheese a la Torento . 


550 


Puree for . 


551 


of Chicken ft la Mancelle 


519 


l'uree of . 


520 


Ragout for 


520 


Piccolo Jellies . 


496 


Cream for 


496 


Pies a la Berlin . . . . 


55 


a la Dejeuner 


538 


Puree for 


539 


Poached Chicken Souffles 


174 


Puffs a la Francaise 


493 


Rolls for Soup i\ la Saxe 


62 


Souffles of Chicken, Cold 


22'.) 


Whiting 


124 


Swans ft la Bosphore 


490 


Nougat Paste for 


491 


ft la Phrygienne . 


258 


Puree for 


259 


Timbals for 


259 


Timbals ft la Belle Eugenie . 


210 


ft la Monica 


239 


Ragout for 


240 


of Fish ft la Saltan 


. 129 


Puree for . 


129 


Tongues ft la Perigord . 


212 


and Chickens a la d' Orleans 


. 231 


for Chicken a la Viennoise 


. 338 


Farce for . 


. 339 


Tongues for 


. 339 


in Chaudfroid . 


. 231 


Toscan Cakes 


. 567 


Zephyrs of Chicken with Peas 


. 173 





PAGE 


LIVER, Calf's, en Poupee . 


. 268 


Farce for Turban of Pigeon 


\ la 


Bonanza 


. 189 


Mock Foie Gras or, for Sc 


uffle 


ft la Montreal . 


. 253 


Sauted . 


. 268 


LOAVES, Potato 


. 403 


LOBSTER a la Boulevard . 


. 51 


Puree for . 


. 51 


Sauce for . 


. 51 


a la Cannes 


. 51 


l'uree 


. 52 


a la Nantes 


. 303 


ft la St. Cloud . 


. 302 


Garnish forMoul 


i for 303 


Ragout for . 


. 302 


Butter . . . . . 


. 609 


Cold Cream of, in Ragout 


. 88 


Cream 


14,87 


Fillets Hi' Haddock with . 


. 87 


Sauce, Fillets of Plaice wit 


h . 96 


Cutlets ft la Clarence . 


. 88 


Farce 


. 803 


Little Bombs of, a la Berlin . 


. 261 


Puree f< 


>r . 262 


Patties ft la Creme 


. r.22 


Ragout foi 


. r>2:; 


Ragout for Fillets of Herein) 


j a la 


Reginta 


. 47 


Salad a la Metz . 


. 303 


of, a la Basse . 


. 262 


ft la Torque . 


. 89 


Garnish for . 


. 90 


Puree for 


. 90 


Sandwiches a la Francaise 


. 427 


Sauce (Cold) . 


. 26 


Souffle of, ft la Diable . 


. 90 


LTTCINE Sauce . 


14 


LUNCHEON" Dishes and Currie 


s 264-332 


MACARONI ft la Casino . 


. 543 


Sauce for 


. 543 


ft la Milanaise 


. 544 


for Little Bouches ft la Pays 


anne . 316 


Sweetbread ft l'liuperatri 


ce . 155 


with Tomato Butter 


. 544 


MACEDOINE for Egg ft la 


Mille 


Fruits . 


. 484 


of Fruit for Little Florida 


Pud- 


dings . 


. 437 


Fruits, Cold 


. 585 


Hot 


. 585 


in Syrup 


. 584 


Salad .... 


. 420 


Potato Border . 


. 420 


MACKEREL a la Claudine 


. 91 


Fillets of, a la Commodore 


. 91 


with Parsley Sauce . 


. 91 


Roes in Surprise . 


. 52 


MADEIRA Cake 


. 560 


MADISON" Slim Cakes 


. 560 


MAGENTA Sauce 


. 15 


| MAIDS of Honour 


. 529 


Custard for 


. 529 


MALTESE Soup 


. 75 


, MANNHEIM, Little, Breads 


. 573 


J MARASCHINO and Coffee Gh 


ice for 


Little Cakes a l'Alexandra 


. 553 



640 



MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 



MARASCHINO Cream for Bava- 

roise a la Pompadour . . 505 

MARCHPANE of Apricots . . 578 

MARGUERITE Pastry . . . 530 

Cream for . . 530 

MARINADE Sauce .... 15 
MARINADED Fillets of Herring a la 

Darmstadt 46 

Fillets of Herring on Brown Bread 308 

on Toast . . 48 

Herrings a la Connaught . . 44 

a la Mexique . . . 306 

a la Ravigote ... 46 

a la Victor . . .549 

Salad of, a la Riga . . .418 

MARMALADE, Apple . . 580 

Pineapple 589 

Transparent Orange . . . 587 

Vegetable Marrow . . . 587 

Syrup for Steeping Marrow . 587 

Sauce 30 

MARMITE Soup .... 61 

MARQUIS Cakes . . . .560 

MARROW, Cardoons with . . 383 

for Farcing Cucumbers . . . 390 

Omelet 287 

Friantines of, a l'Alsace . . 139 

Sauce for . . 139 

Vegetable, a la Francaise . . 405 

Jam 587 

Marmalade .... 587 

Syrup for Steeping Marrow 587 

Pickled 594 

with Fine Herbs . . . 405 

MARSEILLES Sauce . . .15 

MASKING Sauce . .601 

for Quails a la Tosca . 1 BS 

White Farce, for Turban of Chicken 

a la Venitienne .... 170 

MAYONNAISE, Artichoke Bottoms 

with 617 

Aspic, Blocks of . . . . 599 

Green 599 

Pink and White . . . 599 
Border of Vegetables for Supreme 

of Chicken in Blanquette . . 228 

for Little Cases a la Moderne . 309 

Garnishing Sauce .... 600 
Mixture for Farcing Tomatoes a 

l'Americaine .... 396 

Potato, Garnishing . . . 600 

Sauce, Lettuce Salad with . . 420 

Tomato 601 

MAZARINE of Salmon a la Riche . 104 
MEAT Puree a la Vienne . . .607 
for Little Brioches a la 
Vienne . . . . 332 
Quenelles of White, for Garnish- 
ing Calf's Head, &c. . . . 607 
MECKLENBURG Sauce . . .16 

MEDLAR Jelly 499 

Compote for . . . 499 

MELETTI Souffle .... 445 

MELON, Compote of, a la Creme . 508 

Fritters with Pistachios . . 456 

MENTONE Cake . . . .470 

MERINGUE, Fleur with . . .523 

Mixture, Almond .... 614 

for Little Flowers . 570 



MERINGUE Mixture, Chocolate 


paoi 
614 


for Pastry Artichokes 




a la d'Estrees 


526 


Tartlets 


532 


MERINGUES, American . 




459 


Mixture for 




459 


Apricot 




458 


Italian 




460 


Mushroom . 




460 


Poached 




614 


MEXICAN Cake 




559 


MILAN Cakes . 




559 


MILK Bread .... 




575 


MINCE Pie a la Francaise . 




531 


MIXTURE, Almond, for Little Bea- 




trice Cakes 


487 


Meringue, for Little 




Flowers 


570 


l!a\an>ise, for Puddings a la Reine 


514 


Cream, for Souffle of Foie Gras a 




la Montreal .... 


252 


Curry, for Timbal a la Palmeira . 


242 


for Apricot Cakes in Surprise 


470 


Breton Cake .... 


478 


Centre of Mould for Cheese 




Mousse a la Naples 


316 


Chartreuse of Fish a la 




Havraise .... 


263 


Delmonico Cake 


480 


filling Tomatoes a la Mentone . 


398 


inside Mould for Salmon 




Mousse a la Dagmar . 


106 


Lilly Pudding .... 


513 


Little Neva Balls 


467 


Meringues a l'Americaine . 


459 


Lemon, for Little Nicolo Puddings 


440 


Mayonnaise, for Farcing Tomatoes 




a l'Americaine .... 


396 


Meringue, Almond 


614 


Chocolate 


614 


for Pastry Artichokes a la 




d'Estrees 


526 


Mousse for Bomb of Crab a la 




Belle Helene 


261 


Salmon a la Nantaise 


202 


Oyster Souffle 


603 


Souffle, for Fleur with Pistachio . 


524 


Whiting in Surprise 


125 


MOCK Foie Gras, or Liver Farce, for 




Souffle a la Montreal . 


253 


Pate de Foie Gras .... 


269 


MOKA Cake 


475 


MOKAS, Little 


461 


Almonds for . 


461 


MOLTKE Sauce .... 


16 


MONICO Sauce 


16 


MONTANSIER Sauce 


16 


MONTE Carlo Jelly .... 


495 


MONTMORENCY Pudding . 


439 


MOSAIC Jelly 


498 


Custard for 


498 


MOTTLED Glace for Little Flowers . 


570 


MOUNTED Sole .... 


110 


Sauce for 


110 


MOUSSE Mixture for Bomb of Crab 




a la Belle Helene 


261 


of Foie Gras a la Rossini 


250 


Salmon, a la Dagmar . 


105 


Mixture for 


. 


106 



OF EXTRA RECIPES INDEX 



G41 



MOUSSE, Salmon, a la Dagmar 




Puree for 


. 106 


Salad for 


. 10G 


Sauce 


. 30 


MOUSSELINE Sauce, Cold (Savoury 


) 32 


(Sweet) 


. 26 


Green . 


. 17 


Hot (Sweet) 


30 


Oyster . 


17 


Braised Turkey 


r 


and 


345 


Pudding .... 


. 439 


MOUSSES, Little Cheese, a la Naples 


1 316 


Mixture for 


316 


Puree for . 


316 


of Chicken 


174 


Partridge a la Ma 




genta 


. 181 


Salmon a la Nan 




taise 


. 202 


Mixture for 


202 


Sauce for 


202 


MOVILLE Sauce 


. 17 


MULLET, lied, a la Franyaise . 


. 92 


;'i la Parisienne . 


. 92 


Sauce for . 


98 


MULLIGATAWNY, Thick, Soap 


73 


MUSCATELS, Devilled . 


. 52 


MUSCATS 


561 


t<> 1'repare Baking-tins for . 


562 


MUSHROOM Meringues . 


459 


Puree for Kidneys it la Louisville 


161 


Oysters with 


295 


Sauce, Brown 


18 


White 


18 


Roast Pheasant and . 


847 


MUSHROOMS a la Marquise . 


392 


Artichoke Bottom;- 




for . 


392 


a la Vanderbilt . 


392 


and Bacon for Fritot of Crayfisl 




a la Cleveland . 


281 


Omelet with 


287 


Ragout for 


287 


Curried 


393 


for Coquilles a la Mondaine . 


320 


Garnishing 


619 


in Fritot 


392 


MUTTON Cutlets a l'Alexandra 


140 


Rice for . 


141 


a l'Anoienne . 


141 


Spanish Onions 




for 


141 


k la Barigoule 


142 


a la Camerani 


142 


a l'Ecossaise . 


143 


Sauce for . 


144 


a la Lucine . 


144 


a la Maintenon 


144 


a la Montpensier . 


145 


a la Sullivan . 


147 


a la Viennoise 


148 


in Timbal a la Franyaise 


222 


Pur6e for 


223 


Salad for 


223 


Epigrams of, it la Coblentz . 


148 


Kabobs a la Raipore 


149 


Leg of, & la Bourguignotte . 


355 


Neck of, a la Clarence . 


357 



MUTTON, Neck of, a la Clarence 

Artichoke Bottoms for 358 

Timbal for . . . 357 

Noisettes of, it la Parisienne . . 150 

Reform Cutlets of, it la Franyaise . 145 

Rissoles of 521 

Round of, a la Nesle . . . 356 



NABOB Sauce 18 

NAPIER Sauce 19 

NAPOLEON Sauce .... 19 
NAVARINE, Coupole . . .480 
NEAPOLITAN Cake . . . 473 

Garnish fill 

Jellies, Little .... 496 
(nam for . . . 496 
NECK of Lamb a l'Anvers . . 359 

a la Duclair . . 359 
Garnish for . 359 
with Cucumber and Arti- 
choke Bottoms . . 358 
of Mutton a la Clarence . . 357 
Artichoke Bottoms for 358 
Timbal for . . . 357 

NERAC Terrine 275 

NESLE Sauce 19 

NEVA Balls, Little . . . .467 

Mixture for ... 467 

Puree for .... I(i7 

Cakes, Little .... 562 

NEVILLE Cake . . . .562 

NEW Carrots a la Franyaise . 384 

Paste Cases for . 384 

Potatoes a la Creme . . . 403 

Cream for . . 403 

Fried 402 

NICOLO Puddings, Little . . .440 
Mixture for . Ill) 
NIOKES a la Romaine . . . 330 
Sauce for . . .331 
NOISETTES of Mutton a la Paris- 
ienne 150 

NORWAY Cake . . . .491 

NOUGAT in Cases .... 579 

Little, Baskets, a la Duchesse . 484 

alaDurer . . 487 

Paste for Little Swans it la Bos- 

phore 491 

NOUILLES, Braised Chicken and . 341 

NUTS, Gingerbread .... 569 

Pistachio, Eggs with . . . 442 



OkRA Salad 421 

OLIVE-Coloured Aspic . . . 599 

Potatoes 402 

OLIVES a la Belle Eugenie . . 53 

it la Reine .... 53 

for Chicken it la Renaissance . . 230 

Sauted Rabbit d, la Paysanne with 196 

OMELET it la Baltique . . .285 

a la Provence . . . 288 

Puree for inside . . 288 

Jam 443 

Souffle, a la Franyaise . . 444 
Strawberry . . . .444 

T T 



042 



MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 



OMELET, Strawberry, Compote for . 


PAOI 

444 


with Apricot Jam .... 


443 


Asparagus 


285 


Crayfish a l'Armenienne 


284 


Sauce for . 


284 


French Beans 


286 


Marrow .... 


287 


Mushrooms and Bacon . 


287 


Ragout for 


287 


Oysters a la Cannes 


285 


Ragout for 


286 


a la Catalan 


286 


Sauce for . 


286 


Parmesan .... 


288 


Tomato Butter 


288 


ONION, Potato and, Pie . . 


540 


Salad 


400 


ONION'S, Button, for Garnishing 




Meats 


619 


Curried Prawns and 


305 


Fried, for Country Captain . 


313 


Spanish, Braised, a la Julienne 


393 


for Cutlets a l'Ancienne . 


141 


with Sheep's Kidneys 


267 


ORANGE Glace for Cakes, &c. . 


616 


Marmalade, Transparent 


587 




588 




19 


Cold 


32 


Iced, and Rice Cream Souffle . 


446 


OX-HEART a la Francaise 


274 


OX-TONGUE a la Destaing 


367 


Sauce for 


367 


a la Xerxes . 


366 


Boiled, a la Dorna . 


368 


Ragout for . 


369 


Farced Chicken with 


341 


Slices of, a la Nazaire 


368 


au Gratin . 


273 


OYSTER Mousseline Sauce 


17 


Braised Turkey 




and 


345 


Poached, Souffle .... 


94 


Rissoles a la Grand Hotel 


521 


Souffle Mixture .... 


603 


OYSTERS*al'Americaine . 


295 


a la Bonne Bouche . 


54 


Pur6e for . 


54 


a la Cannes, Omelet with 


285 


Ragout for 


286 


a la Catalan, Omelet with 


286 


Sauce for . 


286 


a la Dumas 


294 


Sauce for . 


295 


Croutons with .... 


610 


Cutlets of, a la Creme . 


201 


Sauce for 


201 


Fritot of, with Fine Herbs . 


280 


Grilled, a la Virginie . 


296 


Haddock with . . . . 


297 


Sauce for 


297 


in Curry a la Zola 


93 


Kidneys with, a l'Americaine 


266 


Sauce for . 


266 


Little Bombs of, a la Versailles . 


259 


Pure for 


259 


Creams of, a la Sieges 


200 


Sauce for . 


20O 


with Puree of Mushrooms . 


295 



APER a 1' An vers, Fillets of Salmon 





101 


PARPAIT Pudding .... 


440 


PARISIAN Salad, Strawberry . 


592 


PARMESAN, Omelet with 


288 




55 


PARSLEY Sauce, Fillets of Mackerel 




with 


91 


PARTRIDGE, Cabbage and, Soup . 


66 


Little Creams of, a la Monza 


182 


Pur6e for . 


182 


Sauce for . 


182 


Mousses of, a la Magenta . . 


181 


PARTRIDGES a l'Andalouse . 


350 


a la Wellington 


350 


Roast, and Egg Sauce . 


349 


PASTE, Almond, for Acorns 


463 


Anchovy Devil .... 


610 


Case for Carrots a la Rosina . 


386 


Cases for Carrots a la Francaise . 


384 




615 


Short 


611 


for Egg a la Mille Fruits 


484 


Fleur of Apples and Almonds 




a la Vienne .... 


528 


Nougat for Little Swans a la Bos- 




phore 


491 


Short, for Little Beatrice Cakes . 


487 


PASTRY Artichokes a la d'Estrees . 


525 


Mixture for . 


526 


Syrup for 


526 


Cheese, a la Strohl 


550 


Little, Straws a la Verdun . 


547 


Pur6e for 


548 


Marguerite 


530 


Chestnut Cream for 


530 


Portuguese 


469 


Potatoes 


488 


Straws 


455 


with Preserve .... 


524 


PATfi de Foie Gras, Mock 


269 


PATTIES, Little, a la Montrose 


539 


Gravy for 


539 


Ragout for 


539 


Cheese .... 


549 


a la Torento . 


550 


Pur6e for . 


551 


Chicken a la Mancelle 


519 


Puree for . 


520 


Ragout for 


520 


Lobster a la Creme 


522 


Ragout for 


523 


PATJPIETTES, Eel, a la Francaise . 


86 


PEA Soup, Green .... 


74 


PEACHES, Bottled .... 


588 


Syrup for . 


589 


Chartreuse of, a la Royale . 


508 


PEARS a la Victoria .... 


450 


Compote of 


588 


PEAS a l'Alexandra .... 


394 


a la Paysanne .... 


394 


i\ la Venitienne 


395 


Puree for .... 


395 


Asparagus, for Garnishing Soups 


617 


Crepinettes of Duck with 


206 


Cucumber, for Soup, &c. 


618 


Cutlets of, a la Comte de Paris 


395 


Little Zephyrs of Chicken with . 


173 


PERCH a la Belenne .... 


94 



OF EXTRA. RECIPES INDEX 



643 



PEBCH a la Gardiane 


PAGE 

306 


a, la Koyale . 


95 


Sauce for 


96 


Souchet 


95 


Garnish for 


95 


with Court Bouillon 


306 


PHEASANT a la Garfield . 


311 


a la Montansier . 


347 


Farce for 


347 


a la Viennet . 


312 


Beignets of, a la Dominique . 


ITS 


Puree for . 


179 


Braised, with Cabbage . 


:!4s 


Cabbage blanched for 


348 


Cream of, with Truffles 


179 


Sauce for 


180 


Pie a la Francaise . 


537 


Gravy for filling 


588 


Boast, a la Connaught . 


346 


and Mushroom Sauce 


347 


Supreme of, a la St. Catherine 


I'll 


a la St. Hubert . 


177 


Quenelles for 


178 


Timbal of, a la Baronne 


180 


Cabbage for Top ol 


: 181 


Sauce for 


181 


PHEASANTS a la Financiere . 


348 


in the Pan .... 


. ills 


PHILADELPHIA Dough-nuts 


sea 


PICCALILLI Pickle . 


595 


PICCOLO Jellies, Little . 


496 


Cream for 


. 496 


PICKLE (Liquid) for Beef or Tongue 


i 597 


Piccalilli .... 


. 595 


PICKLED Cabbage (Red) 


. 595 


Carrots 


. 594 


Plums ..... 


. 593 


Pork 


. 597 


Vegetable Marrow 


. 59 f 


PIE, Italian .... 


538 


Mince, a la Francaise . 


. 531 


Pheasant, a la Francaise 


. 537 


Gravy for filling up 


. 538 


Pork 


. 534 


Potato and Onion . 


. 540 


Raised Fish, a l'lmperiale 


. 535 


Stock for . . 


. 536 


Terrine, a la VSnitienne 


. 276 


Gravy for . 


. 276 


Veal, a la Savoyarde 


. 534 


PIES, Little, a la Berlin . 


. 55 


a. la Dejeuner 


. 538 


Puree for 


. 539 


PIGEON, Chaudfroid of, a la Castil 




lanne 


. 243 


Cutlets of, a l'lmperiale 


. 186 


Garnish for 


. 187 


a la Lucine . 


. 187 


a la Piemontaise . 


. 187 


Turban of, a la Bonanza 


. 188 


Farce for 


. 189 


PIGEONS a la Parisienne . 


. 351 


Escalopes of, a la Lisbonne . 


. 242 


Farced with Truffles and PortWini 




Sauce 


. 352 


Farce for 


. 352 


PIG'S PEET,Fritot of, a la Cleinenth* 


3 279 


a la Victor 


. 279 


Puree for 


. 279 



PAGB 

PILAU a la Grecque .... 546 
Ragout for . . .546 

Rice 612 

Red 612 

Veal, a la Bombay . . . 546 

PINEAPPLE, Bavaroise a la Margaux 505 

Chips 589 

Cream 516 

Jam 589 

Jelly 499 

Little Creams of Vanilla and . 503 

Marmalade 589 

Slices of, Iced .... 463 

Syrup for .... 463 

Vanilla Souffle with . . .445 

PINK and White Mayonnaibe Aspic . 599 

Esrg Garnish 613 

PISTACHIO Cream for Bavaroise a la 

Pompadour .... 504 
Costard for Little Croustades a la 

Marquise .... 451 

Nuts, BggS with . . . 442 

PISTACHIOS, Fleur with . . . 523 

Melon Fritters with . . . 456 

PLAICE, Fillets of, with Anchovies a 

la Royale . 96 

with Lobster Cream Sauce . 96 

PLAIN Artichokes .... 879 

Farce 602 

PLATE, Eggs on the, with Cheese . 289 

PLOVERS' Eggs, a la Marie . .218 

Sauce for . 2 1 S 

a la Navarre . . 298 

Aspic for . . 294 

in Aspic a la Victoria 284 

PLUM Jam 590 

Jelly 502 

PLUMS, Compote of, for Claret Jelly 

"with Vanilla Cream . . . 498 

French, Compote of 590 

Pickled 593 

POACHED Chicken Souffles, Little . 174 

Meringues . . . . 614 

Oyster Souffle .... 94 
POINTS, Asparagus, a l'Estragon, 

Artichoke Bottoms with . . 380 

POLIGNAC Sauce .... 20 

POLONAISE Sauce .... 20 

POMPADOUR Cream . . .510 

Garnish for . . 510 

POMPADOURS . . . .531 

a la Stanley . . 548 

Ragout for . 54S 

PORK Farce for Terrine of Hare a la 

Francaise 277 

Pickled 597 

Pie 534 

PORT Wine Sauce, Pigeons farced 

with Truffles and . . . 352 

PORTUGUESE Pastry . . . 46'.) 

POTATO and Onion Pie . . . 540 

Salad . . .400 

Croquettes (Small) . . .619 

Loaves . . . . . 403 

Mayonnaise Garnishing . . 600 

Pujee (Creamy) . . . .606 

Salad Border for Macedoine Salad 420 

Souffles a la Christina . . . 400 

POTATOES a l'Albert . . .398 

T t 2 



644 



MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 





r.VGi-: 


POTATOES a l'Allemande 


399 


a la Norvegienne . 


399 


a la Santage . 


399 


a la Theodora 


399 


Breadcrumbed with Tomato Puree 


403 


New, a la Creme .... 


403 


Cream for 


403 




402 


Olive 


402 




488 


Saratoga 


401 


Basket with .... 


401 


with Cheese 


400 


POTTED Beef ..... 


273 


Cheese a la Vienne 


40 




274 


POUND Cake, Cocoanut . 


555 


POUP^E, Calf's Liver en . 


268 


PEAWNS (Crayfish) a la Gelee 


40 


Curried, and Onions 


305 


PRESERVE for Princess Tartlets 


533 


Pastry with ..... 


524 


PRESERVED Damsons . 


583 


Greengages 


585 


PRINCES, Almond .... 


569 


PRINCESS Pudding .... 


441 


Tartlets 


532 


Preserve for .... 


533 


PROPITEROLES a la Bisentz . 


453 


with Cheese Cream 


56 


PROGRESS Cake .... 


471 


PUDDING a la Belleline . 


435 


a la Bourneville 


448 


a la Camille 


436 


Sauce for 


436 


a la Clausen 


451 


a la Reine 


513 


Bavaroise Mixture for . 


514 


Albani 


433 






Almond, a la Boleno 


434 


Sauce for 


435 




447 


Batter, Boiled .... 


452 


Beef, with Anchovies . 


366 


Bread, a l'Anglaise 


449 


Caramel a l'Empress Frederick 


435 


Chocolate, with Fruits . 


437 


Cold Diplomat .... 


515 


Diplomat 


437 


Fish 


536 


Sauce for . . . . 


536 


Gooseberry, Baked 


450 


Lemon Cream . 


441 


Lilly 


513 


Mixture for , 


513 


Montmorency . 


439 


Mousseline 


439 




440 


Princess . 


441 


Roll Jam . 


525 


Sago, a la Francaise 


442 


Sauce for 


442 


St. James 


438 


PUDDINGS, Alexandra (Little) 


434. 


Custard for . 


434 


Sauce for 


434 


Florida (Little)' . . 


438-" 


Macedoine of Fruit for . 


438 



PAGE 

PUDDINGS, Nicolo (Little) . . 440 
Mixture for . . . 440 

to Steam 433 

PUFFS, Little, a la Francaise . . 493 

PUNCH Jelly 495 

PURlSE, Anchovy, for Croutes a la 

Francaise . 33 

for filling Patties, &c. 605 

Masking Toast, &c. 605 

(Hot) for Croutons . 605 

Apple, for Fillets of Veal a la 

Boulanger .... 325 

Banana 580 

for Little French Creams a 
la d'Artois .... 512 
Brown, for Egyptian Cream . 254 

Cheese, for Centre of Fleurs, &c. . 604 
Chestnut, Braised Turkey with 

Mousseline Oyster Sauce and . 345 

Chicken, a la Chevet . . .322 

Garnish for . . 322 

for Croutes a la Bruyere . 314 

Sandwiches a la Fiane . 426 

Chocolate, for Vienna Cream . 510 

Cold Tomato .... 27 

Crab, for Timbal of Crab a la 

Rosette 82 

Crayfish for Croutons, &c. . . 605 
Creamy, of Potatoes for Garnishing 

Entries 606 

Cucumber, for Salmon Mousse a la 

Dagmar . 106 
Timbal a la St. 
Agnes . . . 215 
Carry, for Egyptian Cream . . 254 

Egg 604 

for Sandwiches a la Louise . 429 
Fish for Maskir.g Fillets of Whit- 
ing, &c. ... 605 
for Appetit Sild a la St, Cloud 318 
on Croutes . 35 
Artichoke Bottoms a la 

Bourgogaic . . . 380 
Artichoke Bottoms a la Fife . 379 
Beignets of Pheasant a la 

Dominique . . . 179 
Bombs of Oyster a la 

Versailles . . .259 
Calf s Head Collared . . 324 
Caviar a la Vefour ... 38 
Cream of Rabbit a la 

Duxelle . . .248 
Cream of Rabbit a la 

Ruthven . . . 249 
Cream of Tomatoes a la 

Papillon . . .256 
Creams of Partridge a la 

Monza .... 182 
Croutons for Eggs a la 

Dunbar . . .291 

Cutlets of Quails a la 

Greville . . .184 

Eel a la Broche ... 82 
a la Garrick ... 84 
Fleur of Apples a la 

Creme .... 528 

Fritot a la Mongole . . 284 

a la >t. Mark's . . 140 

Herring Roes a l'lnd . . 49 



OF EXTRA liECIPES INDEX 



045 



PUR^E, for inside Omelet a la Pro- 
vence .... 288 
Kromeskies a la Sultan . 210 
Little Chickens a l'lmpe- 

riale . . .177 
Pastry Straws a la 

Verdun . . 548 
Swans a la Phry- 

gienne . . 259 

Lobster a. la Boulevard . 51 

a la Cannes . 52 

a la Turque . 90 
Masking Bread for Fil- 
lets of Herring a la 
Pearlin . . .307 
Mutton Cutlets in Tim- 

bal a la Francaise . 223 
Oystt irsala MonneBouche 54 
Peas a la Venitienne . 395 
Pies a la Dejeuner . . 539 
Pig's Feet a la Victor . 279 
Timbal a la Sultan . . 129 
a la Windsor . 236 
Green, for Egyptian Cream . . 254 
Ham, for Croustades a la Veni- 
tienne . . . 205 
Croutes a la Bruyere . 314 
Haricot Beans for Garnishing 

Sweetbreads, &c. . . . 606 

of Bananas for Little Neva Balls . 467 

Chicken a la Napolitaine . . i7 
for Chickens a la Ren: 

sance . . . 230 

Patties a la Mancelle . 520 

' ilwiches ala Victoria 431 

Fish for Croutes a la .Jessamine 2'.) I 

Fritot a la. Milton . 283 

Game for Little Coquilles a la 

Mondaine .... 321 
Lobster for Little Bombs a, la 

Berlin 262 

Meat a la Vienne . . . 607 

for Little Brioches ala Vienne 332 
Mushrooms for Kidneys a la 

Louisville . .161 

Oysters with . . 295 

Vegetables with Butter . . 405 

Orange ....'.. 588 

Red, for Egyptian Cream . . 254 

Salmon, for Mousse X la Dagmar . 106 
Tomato, for Cheese Mousse a la 

Naples . . 316 

Masking Meats . 606 

Patties a la Torento 561 

Larded Fillet of Beef with . 364 

Potatoes, Breadcrumbed with 403 

Tomatoes (thick) .... t;07 

Tongue, for Cutlets a la Reine . 166 

Masking Cold Meats . 606 

White, for Egyptian Cream . . 254 

PYBENEENNE Sauce for Fillets of 

Sole 118 

Q,UAILS a l'Ecossaise . . .184 

a la Lesseps . . . 244 

Ice Timbal for . . 245 

Ragout for filling . 245 

Sauce for . . 245 



l'AUK 

QUAILS a la Mecklenburg . . 353 

Farce for . . . 353 

a la Rubanee . . .185 

a la Tosca .... 185 

Sauce for Masking . 185 

Cutlets of, a la Greville . .183 

Pur6e for . . 184 

Salmis of, a l'Empress . . . 183 

Sauce for . .183 

with Truffles 313 

QUEEN" Cakes . ... 563 

Cocoanut Cakes . . . 563 
QUEENS, Victoria .... 579 
QUENELLES, Button, for Kidneys 

a la Berlin . .160 
for Chicken a la Toulouse . . 338 
Garnish for Salmon a la Rou- 

manie . . . .104 
Supreme of Pheasant a la Si . 

Hubert . . . .178 
Gravy for Inside, for Larks a la 

Cologne l!| 

Jubilee 217 

Garnish for . . . .218 
of White .Meat for Garnish, Call's 
Head, &o 607 



XVABBIT a rEpicurienue . 




. 354 


Farce for 


355 


Sauce for 


355 


Creams of, a FAinbassadrice 


196 


Cucumber for 


197 


Farce for 


197 


Sauce for 




197 


a la Duxelle 




247 


Puree for 




248 


Timbals for 




248 


a la Ruthven 




248 


Cucumber f 01 




249 


Puree for 




249 


Curried, a la Madras 




278 


(Dry) a la Mango . 




278 


Sauted, a la Carlton 




195 


a la Paysanne with Olives 


196 


BAGOUT and Sauce for Fillet of 




Beef a l'Ostende 


362 


Bacon, for Omelet with Mush- 




rooms 


287 


Cold Cream of Lobster in 


88 


Garnish for . 


88 


for BaUettes a la St. Louis . 


236 


Boiled Ox Tongue a la Dorna . 


369 


Bombs a la Visapore 


257 


Cases of Sweetbread a la St. 




Clair 


158 


Centre of Sole a la Pyreneenne 


117 


Chartreuse of Game a la Bat- 




tenberg 


239 


Sauce for 


239 


Chicken Dormers 


168 


Patties a la Mancelle . 


520 


Chickens a la Renaissance 


230 


Crepinettes a la Villageoise . 


209 


Croustades a la Create Mont- 




glas . 


522 


of Calf's Brains 


519 


Game 


. 


199 



646 



MKS. A. B. MAKSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 



la 



la 



RAGOUT for Croutes a la Bruyere . 

for Cutlets of Beef a la Moltke . 

Eggs in Chaudfroid a la Bres- 

soire 

Escalopes of Sweetbread a la 

Lombarde . 
Fillets of Beef a la Moville . 
Sole a la Grenade . 
filling Quails a la Lesseps 
Little Baskets a la Toulouse . 
Cases a la Breteuil 
Chickens a la St. George . 
Croustades a la Cleveland . 

of Fish 
Timbals a la Monico . 
Lobster a la St. Cloud 

Patties a la Creme 
Omelet with Oysters a 

Cannes 
Patties a la Montrose 
Pilau a la Grecque . 
Pompadours a la Stanley . 
Rump Steak a la Conti . 
Sole a la Cleveland . 
Timbal of Sweetbread a 

Czarina .... 

Vol-au-Vent a la Prince George 

Whiting in Surprise 

Lobster, for Fillets of Herring a la 

Reginta .... 

EAGUSE Sauce 

RAISED Fish Pie a l'Imperiale . 
Stock for . 
RASPBERRY and Red Currant Jam 
B AVIOLIS with Spinach a la Grecque 
BED Cabbage Pickled 

Currrnt Jam .... 

and Raspberry Jam . 
Garnish for Little Bouchees of 
Foie Gras a la Russe 
the Mould for Lobster 
a la St. Cloud 
Mullet a la Parisienne . 
Sauce for . 
Mullets a la Francaise . 
Pilau Rice 

Puree for Egyptian Cream 
Rice Border . 
Sauce .... 
REFORM Cutlets of Mutton 
Francaise . 
Garnish .... 
Sauce .... 
BEMOVES and Roasts 
REYNIERE Sauce . 
BHTJBABB, Compote of . 
Fleur with, a la Neige . 
BICE Border (Red) for Entrees 
Buttered 

for Garnish for 
Puree a la Chevet 
Cream Beignets . 

Souffle and Iced Orange Sauce 
for Cutlets a l'Alexandra 
Pilau, for Kabobs . 

Red .... 
with Game, &c. 
Soups, &c. 



a la 



Chicken 



PAGE 

314 
136 

233 

157 
134 
114 
245 
214 
541 
176 
203 
128 
240 
302 
523 

286 
539 
546 
548 
272 
107 

159 
518 
126 

47 
20 
535 
536 
590 
545 
595 
581 
590 

250 

303 

92 

93 

92 

613 

254 

612 

21 



145 
619 

21 
333-375 

21 
590 
462 
612 
611 



322 

454 

446 

141 

612 

613 

612, 

6lf 



BICHE Sauce 


PAGK 

22 


Hot Salmon Souffle with 


105 


BICHELIEU Sauce .... 


22 


RICHMOND Cakes .... 


564 


RINGS, Parmesan .... 


55 


RISOT a la Napolitaine 


544 


a la Pi6montaise 


545 


RISSOLES a la Richmond 


520 


of Mutton 


521 


Oyster, a la Grand Hotel 


521 


ROAST Chicken a la Biarritz . 


339 


Larks, Fillets of Hare Larded and 


354 


Leg of Lamb, Capsicum Sauce 






358 


Partridges and Egg Sauce . 


349 


Pheasant a la Connaught 


346 


and Mushroom Sauce . 


347 


Tripe and Brown Caper Sauce 


327 


ROASTS, Removes and . . 333-37J 


ROCKAWAY Eggs .... 


76 




76 


ROES, Herring, a la Broche 


307 


Puree for Mask- 




ing Toast for . 


308 


a l'lnd 


48 


Pur6e for 


49 


a la Mode . 


309 


Fritotof 


280 


in Little Cases 


48 


Salad of, a la Hamburg . 


417 


Mackerel, in Surprise . 


52 


Salad of, a la Meuniere 


417 


Dressing for 


418 


| ROLL, Jam Pudding .... 


525 




564 


Jam for ..'... 


565 


ROLLS, Brentford .... 


574 


Brown Bread .... 


574 


Fried, a la Francaise . 


455 




577 


Little, for Soup & la Saxe 


62 


ROSE Almond Cake . 


553 


ROUND of Mutton a la Nesle . 


356 


ROWANBERRY Jelly . 


502 


Syrup for . 


502 


RTJBANliJE Cream . 


507 




22 


Cutlets of Chicken and . 


165 


RUMP Steak a la Conti 


271 


Ragout for 


272 


Grilled and Capsicum Sauce 


272 


Stewed 


365 


RUSSIAN Jelly . 


497 




575 


OAGO Pudding a la Francaise . 


442 


Sauce for . 


442 


SAINT James Pudding 


438 


SALAD a l'Albany 


409 


a l'Americaine 


409 


a TAncienne . 


410 


a TAnvers . . . 


411 


a la Baltique . 


412 


l la Beatrice . 


412 


Dressing for 


413 


a la Clarence . 


413 


a la Clarendon 


414 



OF EXTRA KECIPES INDEX 


047 




PAOH 




rAGU 


SALAD a la Comte de Paris 


. 414 


SALMON a la Fiord, Garnish for 


97 


a la Pompadour 


. 421 


a la Monte Carlo with Sauce 




a la Rachel . 


. 421 


Suedoise . 


97 


a la St. James 


. 422 


Cutlets a la Bergen 


98 


a la Stanley . 


. 423 


Farce 


604 


a la Suedoise . 


. 423 


for Fillets of Sole a la Join 




Dressing for . 


. 423 


ville . 


115 


a la Virginie . 


. 423 


Fillets of, a l'Alexandra 


101 


American Corn 


. 410 


a la Mendip . 


102 


Anchovy, a la Careme . 


. 412 


a la Roumanie 


103 


Apple, a la St. Florentine 


. 411 


Garnish for . 


104 


Artichoke 


. :s7'.i 


Sauce for . . 


104 


Asparagus, a la Campagne 


. 378 


a la Mouchy . 


102 


Cabbage, a l'Am6ricaine 


. 415 


Farce for 


103 


Cauliflower . 


. 388 


Sauce for . 


103 


Cheese, a la Suisse 


. 41 1 


in Paper a l'Anvers 


101 


Chestnut, a la Graham . 


. 413 


Hot, Souffle with Sauce Riche . 


i or, 


Sauce for 


. 413 


Little Fillets of, a la Gorgona 


102 


Chicory .... 


. 415 


Mousses of, a la Nantaise . 


202 


Dressing for . 


. 415 


Mixture for 


202 


Cucumber, for Salmon . 


. 618 


Sauce for 


202 


Egyptian 


. 416 


Mazarine of, it la Riche 


104 


Seasoning for Meat for 


. 416 


Mousse a la Dagmar 


105 


for Little Bouoh6es of Foie C 


rras a 


Mixture for inside the Mould for 


lor, 


la Russe . 


. 250 


Purees for .... 


106 


Mutton Cutlets in Timba 


1 a la 


Salad for .... 


IOC, 


Francaise 


. 223 


Salad 


319 


Salmon Mousse a la Dag 


mar . 106 


Slices of, a la Suedoise . 


100 


French .... 


. 416 


a la Vanderbilt 


100 


Green, a la Bretonne 


. 41ii 


Steak a la Cussy . 


90 


Sauce for 


. 417 


a la Falmouth 


99 


Herring, a la Leopold . 


. 419 


Sauce for 


99 


Dressing for 


. 419 


SALSIFIES, Crepinettes of 


404 


Italian .... 


. 419 


Fillet of Beef with 


360 


Lettuce, a la Vienne 


. 420 


SANDWICH with Egg Cream . 


425 


with Mayonnaise Sauce 


. 420 


SANDWICHES . .42 


4-432 


Lobster, a hi Metz. 


. 303 


a l'Aniericaine . 


42.", 


Macedoine 


, 420 


a 4a Bedford 


425 


Potato Border for . 


. 420 


a la Creme de Volaille 


425 


of Carrots 


. 387 


a la Plane .... 


425 


Fillets of Sole a l'lmpeVia 


le . 260 


Chicken Puree for 


426 


Flageolets a la Francaise 


. 382 


a la Francaise . 


126 


French Beans a la Flamai 


ide . 381 


a la (ire ville 


427 


Herring in White Wine 


. 418 


a l'lndienne 


427 


Herring Roes a la Hamlm 


g . 417 


a la Joinville ... 


428 


Herrings with White Win 


e a la 


a la Louise 


428 


Zartz 


. 418 


Pur6e for . 


429 


Lobster a la Russe . 


. 262 


Sauce for . 


429 


a la Turrjue . 


. 89 


a la Parisienne . 


429 


Garnish for 


. 90 


a la Portugaise . 


429 


Puree foi 


. 90 


a la Romaine 


. 430 


Marinaded Herrings a la 


Riga . 418 


a la, Royale 


430 


Roes a la Meuniere . 


. 417 


a la Victoria 


431 


Dressing for 


. 418 


Puree for . 


431 


Okra . . . 


. 421 


Lobster, a la Francaise . 


427 


Potato and Onion . 


. 400 


with Watercress and Eggs . 


432 


Salmon .... 


. 319 


SABATOGA Potatoes 


401 


Skate in, a la Venise 


. 320 


Basket with 


401 


Strawberry, Parisian 


. 592 


Soup 


76 


Tomato .... 


. 620 


SAKDOU Sauce .... 


23 


a l'Anglaise . 


. 398 


SAUCE a l'Armenlenne 


284 


Venison, a la Romaine . 


. 424 


Albany 


. 25 


SALADS, Fancy 


. 409-424 


Albert 


. 28 


SALMIS of Chicken a la Regen 


3e . 175 


Ambassade .... 


5 


Borde 


r for . 176 


Andreani .... 


5 


Croustac 


es for 175 


Angelic 


6 


Quails a l'Empress 


. 183 


Apricot, Yellow 


. 28 


Sauce for 


. 183 


Arrowroot .... 


. 28 


SALMON it la Fiord . 


. 97 


Banana 


. 29 



648 



MIIS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 



SAUCE, Bechamel Chaudfroid . 


I'AGE 

. 600 


Bechamel Cheese . 


6 




6 


Brandy Cream 


30 


Caper (Brown), Eoast Tripe and 


. 327 


Capsicum .... 


6 


and Roast Leg of Lamb . 


358 


Grilled Rump Steak and 


272 


Cardinal .... 


7 


Carlsbad .... 


7 


Champagne .... 


7 


Chaudfroid a la Chatelaine . 


599 


Brown .... 


600 


for Lobster a la Boule 




vard . 


51 


Fawn-coloured 


600 


Cheese Cream 


8 


' for Cutlets a la Suffeen . 


147 








8 


Celery Shreds for 


8 


Chocolate, Cold . 


31 


Claudine .... 


8 


Clementine .... 


8 


Cocoanut for Escalopes of Sweet 




bread a la Munich 


157 


Commodore .... 


9 




9 


Courte 


9 


Larded Capercailzie and . 


349 




25 




10 


with Fine Herbs 


10 


Curry, for Eggs a la Diable . 


290 


for Eggs in Surprise a la Poonal 


289 




10 




10 


Egg 


11 


Roast Partridges and 


349 


Estouffade .... 


11 


Excellence, for Fillets of Whiting 


123 


Finaneiere .... 


11 


Fish, Thin White, for Fillets ol 




Turbot a l'Imp6ratrice 


120 


for Alexandra Pudding 


434 


Almond Pudding a la Boleno 


435 


American Corn Salad 


410 


Asparagus and Artichoke Bot- 




toms a la Cannes . 


378 


Blanquette of Eggs a la Napiei 


293 


Cauliflower a la Nimes 


387 


Chaudfroid of Chicken witl 




Vegetables . 


225 


Chestnut Salad a la Graham 


413 


Chicken a la Minute 


163 


Cod a la Sandringham 


79 


a la Victoria 


80 


Coquilles a la Venitienne 


297 


Crayfish a la Pandore 


203 


a la Parisienne . 


. 305 


Cream a l'lndienne . 


237 


of Hare a la Vatican . 


194 


Pheasant with Truffles 


180 


Creams of Partridge a la Monzn 


k 182 


Crepinettes a la Parisienne 


208 


* Croutes a la Langham 


315 


a la Prusse . 


309 


' Cutlets a TAngelique 


140.- 


a l'Ecossaise 


144 



l'AOK 

SAUCE for Cutlets a la Nimoise . 165 

for Eggs a la Dunbar . . . 291 
Escalopes of Calf's Head a la 

Tuileries .... 153 

Fillet of Beef a la Jussienne . 361 

a l'Ostende . 362 

Fillets of Beef a la Canadienne 133 

a la Claudine . 270 

a la Diable . 132 

a la Parisienne 363 

a la Perigueux 269 
a la Princesse 

Louise . 270 

of Chicken a la Marechale . 167 

Salmon a la Mouchy . 103 

Sole a la Ccrrente . . 112 

a la Josephine . 116 

in Curry a la Midas . 114 

Turbot a la Chartres . 121 

Fish Pudding .... 536 

Frian tines of Marrow a 1' Alsace 139 

Fruit on Cakes a la Parisienne 464 

Gnocchi a l'ltalienne . . 543 

Green Salad a la Bretonne . 417 

Haddock with Oysters . . 297 

Kidneys a la Berlin . . 159 

al'Orient . . .266 

with Oysters a TAmericaine 266 

Kromeskies a la Nemour . . 209 

Larks a la Cologne . . . 191 

in Baskets . . . .190 

Lemon Cream Pudding . . 442 

Little Bouches a la Paysanne . 315 

Chickens a la St. George . 176 

Creams of Asparagus a la 

Montreuil . 213 
Oysters a la 

Sieges . 200 
Whiting a la 

Royale . 124 

Croustades of Fih . . 128 

Macaroni a la Casino . . 543 

Masking Quails a la Tosca . 185 

Mixing Brains and Tongue for 

Calf's Head a 1'Andreani . 389 
Mousses of Salmon a la Nan- 

taise 202 

Mullet a la Parisienne . . 93 
Niokes a la Romaine . . 331 
Omelet with Ovsters a la Cata- 
lan . "... . 286 
Ox Tongue a la Destaing . 367 
Oyster Cutlets a la Creme . 201 
Oysters a la Dumas . . . 295 
Perch a la Royale ... 96 
Plovers' Eggs a la Marie . . 218 
Rabbit a l'Epicurienne . . 355 
Ragout for Chartreuse of Game 

a la Battenberg . 239 

Quails a la Lesseps 245 

Sago Pudding a la Francaise . 442 

Salad a l'Americaine . .410 

a l'Ancienne . . . 410 

a 1' An vers . . .411 

Salmis of Quails a l'Empress . 183 

Salmon a la Roumanie . , 104 

Steak a la Falmouth . 99 

Sandwiches a la Louise . . 429 

Sirloin of Beef a la Pompadour 365 



OF EXTRA HECTPES INDEX 



649 



SAUCE for Sole Mounted . 


I'M.;: 
. 110 


SAUCE, Suedoise .... 


l'AUJi 

27 


Supreme of Chicken in 


Asparagus and 




374 


Blanquette . 


. 228 


Salmon a la Monte 


Carlo 




Timbal a la St. Agnes 


. 215 


with 




97 


of Chicken a la Reginald 227 


Tomato Cream 




27 


Pheasant a la Baronne 181 


Puree, Cold 




27 


Fruit 


31 


Vanilla Chocolate . 




29 


Geneva ..... 


. 12 






23 


Gironde .... 


. 12 


Wellington . 




24 


Good Man .... 


12 


Wine, White, Creams of Fish with 


127 


Gorgona .... 


. 25 






24 




12 


SAUCES, Cold . 




25-27 


Eel a la Jardiniere with 


. 85 


Sweet 




30-32 


Greengage . . . ' . 


. 29 


Hot . 




5-24 




. 13 


Sweet 




28-30 


Imperial .... 


. 13 


SAUTED Chicken a la Dupre 




161 


Julienne .... 


. 13 


Croutons for . 


162 


Laver 


14 


Fillets of Beef a la Claudine 


270 


Lobster ..... 


. 2G 


Sauce for 


270 


Cream .... 


. 14 


a la Paysanne 


271 


Fillet of Plaice with . 


. 96 




268 


Lucine ..... 


. 14 


Rabbit a la Carlton 


195 


Magenta .... 


. 15 


a la Paysanne with Olives 


196 


Marinade .... 


. 15 


SAVOURIES, Ho'rs d'ffiuvns and 33-57 


Marmalade .... 


. 30 


SAVOURY, Cheese, Custard for Soups 


615 


Marseilles .... 


. 16 


Custard for Croustades, Kc. . 


615 


MaskiDg .... 


601 


Farce for Turban of Chicken a la 




Mayonnaise, Lettuce Salad with 


. 420 


Venitienne .... 


170 


Garnishing 


. 600 


SCOTCH Collops .... 


278 


Mecklenburg .... 


. 16 


Shortbread ..... 


576 




. 16 


SEASONING for Meat for Egyptian 






. 16 




416 


Montansier .... 


. 16 


SEED Buns 


573 


Mousse , 


30 


SHEEP'S Feet, Fritot of, a la Beige . 


150 


Mousseline (Savoury) . 


26 


Faroe for 


151 


Cold .... 


32 


Kidneys, Spanish Onions with 


267 


with Strawberries 


31 


SHELLS for Creams a la Marmotte . 


41 


( i reen .... 


17, 26 


SHORT Baste for Little Beatrice 




Hot . 


80 


Cakes ..... 


487 


Oyster 


17 


SHORTBREAD, Scotch . 


576 


and Braised Turkey . 


345 


SHOULDER of Lamb a la Nabob . 


35 


Moville 


17 


Farce for . 


356 


Mushroom, Roast Pheasant and 


317 


SHREDS, Celery, for Chevet Sauce . 


8 


Brown .... 


18 


SIRLOIN of Beef a la Pompadour . 


364 


White .... 


18 


Carrots and Turnips for 


365 




18 


Sauce for 


365 




19 


SKATE in Salad a la Venise 




320 




19 


SLICES, Devilled, of Game 


, 


312 


Nesle 


19 


of Chicken a la Diable . 




322 




19 


Haddock with Butter 




298 


Cold 


32 


Ox Tongue a la Nazaire . 


. 


368 


Iced, Rice Cream Souffle and . 


446 


au Gratin 




273 


Parsley, Fillets of Mackerel with . 


91 


Pineapple Iced 




463 


Polignac 


20 


Syrup for 




463 


Polonaise ..... 


20 


Salmon a la Vanderbilt . 




100 


Port Wine, Pigeons Farced with 




a la Suedoise 




100 


Truffles and .... 


352 


SLIM, Madison, Cakes 




560 


Pyreneenne, for Fillet of Sole 


118 


SMELTS, Sole and, Fried 






108 




20 


Garnish for . 






108 




21 


SNAPS, Brandy . 






568 




21 


with Cream 






469 


Reyniere 


21 


SOLE a la Bon Homme 






109 




22 


Farce for . 






109 


Hot Salmon Souffl6 with . 


105 


a la Cleveland . 






107 


Richelieu 


22 


Ragout for 






107 


Rubanee 


22 


a la Monico 






109 


Cutlets of Chicken and . 


165 


and Smelts Fried . 






108 




23 


Garnish for 






108 


Soubise, Thick .... 


23 


Devilled 




. 


108 



650 



MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 



SOLE, Fillets of, a la Brabant . 


PAGE 
111 


a la Cardinal . 


112 


a la Clementine 


113 


a la Corrente . 


112 


Border for 


112 


Sauce for . 


112 


a la Grenade . 


114 


Ragout for 


114 


a la Joinville . 


114 


Farce for 


115 


a la Josephine . 


115 


Sauce for 


116 


a la Napier 


116 


a la Pyreneenne 


117 


Ragout for centre 


117 


Sauce for . 


118 


a la Waleskie . 


118 


in Curry a la Midas . 


118 


Sauce for 


114 


with Anchovy Butter . 


111 


Fried, with Anchovy Butter , 


107 


Mounted 


110 


Sauce for .... 


110 


Salad of Fillets of, a l'lrnperiale . 


260 


Stuffed, a la Vienne 


111 


with Tomato Butter 


301 


SOUBISE, Thick, Sauce . 


23 


SOUCHET of Eels a la Berlin . 


86 




95 


Garnish for .... 


95 


SOUFFLE a la Marguerite 


257 


Chocolate 


446 


Hot Salmon, with Sauce Riche . 


105 




445 


Mixture for Fillets of Herring en 




CouroEne . 


46 


Fleur with Pistachio 


524 


Whiting in Surprise . 


125 


Oyster 


603 


of Foie Gras a la Montreal . 


252 


Farce for .... 


253 


Mixture for 


252 


Haddock a la Bruxelloise . 


298 


Ham or Tongue 


211 


Lobster a la Diable . 


90 


Whiting in Surprise . 


125 


Mixture for . . . 


125 


Ragout for . 


126 


Omelet a la Francaise . 


444 


Poached Oyster .... 


94 


Rice Cream, and Iced Orange 




Sauce 


446 


Vanilla with Pineapple 


445 


SOUFFLES, Little, of Chicken Cold 


229 


Whiting . 


124 


Poached Chicken 


174 


Potato, a la Christina . 


400 


SOUP, a l'Alexandra .... 


58 


a l'Andalouse .... 


63 


a l'Augustine . 


63 


a l'Azalea .... 


58 


a la Bohmienne 


65 


a la Carlton .... 


71 


a l'Espoir . ; 


61 


a la Frankfort .... 


72 


a la Geneve .... 


60 


a la Leopold .... 


60 


a la Marie Louise . . . 


&r 


a la Milan ... 


74 



SOUP a la Reine. 


PAG] 

62 


a la Sarah Bernhardt 


59 


a la Saxe . 


62 


Little Rolls with 


62 


a la Szegedin . . 


77 


a la Trieste . 


63 


Bisque a la Grecque . . 


64 


a la Mancelle 


64 


Stock for . 


65 


Cabbage and Partridge 


66 


Cheese 


66 


Chestnut .... 


67 


Cream a la Dauphine . 


68 


a la Ferdinand . 


69 


a la Ferneuse 


69 


a la Milton 


70 


a la St. Louis 


70 


Duck a la Rowen . . . , 


67 


Dunbar Cream 


68 


French Bean 


71 


Friar Tuck .... 


72 


Game 


73 


Green Pea .... 


74 


Holstein . . . 


73 


Maltese . . . 


75 


Marmite .... 


61 


Mulligatawny, Thick 


73 


Puree of Chicken a la Napolitaine 


67 


Rockaway 


76 


Eggs with . 


7& 


Saratoga .... 


76 


Veal, a la Bourgeoise . 


59 


Victoria .... 


77 


SOUPS, Clear .... 


58-63 


Thick 


63-78 


SPANISH Buns .... 


572 


Ham 


372 


Onions, Braised, a la Julienne 


. 393 


for Cutlets a l'Ancienne 


. 141 


with Sheep's Kidneys . 


267 


SPAKGHETTI a la Russe 


545 


Boiled 


. 611 


for Cutlets a la Suffeen 


147 


SPICED Bread .... 


576 


SPINACH, Raviolis with, a la Grecque 


545 


SPONGE, Sultana, Jelly . 


500 


Cherries for . 


501 


SPREAD Eagle .... 


. 323 


SPUN Sugar .... 


. 457 


STEAK, Rump, a la Conti . 


. 271 


Ragout for . 


. 272 


Grilled and Capsicum Sauce 


; 272 


Salmon, a la Cussy 


. 99 


a la Falmouth . 


. 99 


Sauce for 


. 99 


Stewed Rump 


. 365 


STOCK, Clarified, for Raised Fish Pie 




a l'lrnperiale 


'. 536 


for Bisque a la Mancelle . 


. 65 


Consomme^ for Veal Soup a h 


i 


Bourgeoise . . 


. 59 


STRASBURG Custard 


. 482 


STRAWBERRIES, Bottled . 


. 591 


Cold Mousseline Sauce with . 


. 31 


in Surprise a l'Anglaise . 


. 464 


Little Jellies with . 


. 497 


STRAWBERRY Cream for Bavarois* 




a la Pompadour . 


. 505 


Custard for Timbal a la Versaille 


3 515 



OF EXTRA RECIPES INDEX 



651 



PAGE 

STEAWBEEEY Glace for Cakes, &c. 616 
Jam 591,592 



PAGE 

TAETLETS, Meringue . . . 532 
Princess 532 



Carlo with 



Omelet . 

Compote for .... 
Parisian Salad .... 
STRAWS, Little Pastry, it la Verdun 
Puree for 
Pastry .... 
STUFFED Sole jI la Vienne 
STUFFING, Celery 
SUEDOISE Sauce 
Asparagus and 
Salmon a la Monte 
SUGAR, Spun . 
SULTANA Cake 
Sponge Jelly . 
Cherries for 
SUNDRIES 

SUPREME of Chicken a l'Esperance 
Cucumber for 
in Blanquette 
Border for 
Sauce for 
of Pheasant a la St. Catherine 
a la St. Hubert 

Quenelles for . 
SWANS, Little, t\ la Bosphore . 
Paste for . 
a la Phrygienne 
Parte for . 
Timbals for 
SWEET Sauces, Cold . 
Hot . 
SWEETBREAD a la Belgrave . 
a la Financiers 
;\ l'lmperatrice 
Border for 
Farce for . 
Macaroni for 
Escalopes of, a la Helene 

a la Lombarde . 

Ragout for 

a la Munich 

Sauce for . 

Little Cases of, a la St. Clair 

Ragout for 

Timbal of, a la Czarina . 

Ragout for 
SWEETS, Cold Fancy 
Hot, and Puddings 
Compote of Cherries for 
SWISS Roll 

Jam for 
SYRUP for Pastry Artichokes a la 
d'Estrees 
Peaches . 

Eowanberry Jelly 
Slices of Pineapple Iced 
Steeping Marrow 
Tomato Jam . 
Ginger, for Carrot Ginger 
Macedoine of Fruits in . 



444 

444 

592 

547 

548 

455 

111 

618 

27 

374 

97 

457 

565 

500 

501 

621, 622 

170 

171 

. 227 

. 228 

. 228 

. 244 

. 177 

. 178 

. 490 

. 491 

. 258 

. 269 

. 259 

30-32 

28-30 

. 153 

. 154 

. 154 

. 155 

. 155 

. 155 

. 156 

. 156 

. 157 

. 157 

. 157 

. 158 

. 158 

. 158 

. 158 

457-493 

433-456 

. 582 

. 564 

. 565 

526 
589 
502 
463 
587 
593 
581 
584 



TaGLIARINI a la Florence . 
TARRAGON and Chervil for Soup 
TARTLETS a laVandeleur 
Gooseberry, a la Creme 



533 

619 

56 

52S 



Preserve for .... 
TEA, Bath, Cakes 

Bartlett Chocolate, Cake 
Bread made with Baking Powder 
or Breakfast Cakes 
TENDONS for Vol-au-Vent, to 
prepare 
in Cases a l'Estragon 
TENNIS Cake . 
TERRINE, Eel in 
Nerac 

of Hare & la Francaise 
Farce for 
Pie a la Venetienne 
Gravy for 
THICK Mulligatawny Soup 
Soubi.se Sauce 
Soups . 
Victoria Soup 
TIMBAL a la Christina 
Cream for 
a la Comorin 
Cases for 
Curry for 
a la Florence 
a la Jardiniere 
a la Mathilde 
a la Palmeira 
Aspic for 
Border for 
Cream for 
Mixture for 
a la St. Agnes 
Farce for 
Puree for 
Sauce for 
a la Versailles 

Custards for 
a la Windsor 
Puree for 
for Neck of Mutton a la Clarence 
Ice, for Quails a la Lesseps . 
Mutton Cutlets in, a la Fran 

caise 

Pur6e for 
Salad for 
of Chestnuts a la Cannes 

Vanilla Cream for 
Chicken a la Reginald 
Sauce for 
Crab a la Rosette 

Cabbage for Top of . 
Crab Puree for . 
Sauce for . 
Pheasant a la Baronne 
Sweetbread a la Czarina . 
Ragout for 
TIMBALS for Chicken a la Chan- 

celiere 

for Garnish for Cream of Rabbit 

it la Duxelle .... 

Garnishing Neck of Lamb a la 

Duclair .... 

Little Swans a la Phrygienne . 

Little, a la Belle Eugenie 

a la Monico 

Ragout for . 



533 
534 
555 
573 
. 568 

. 518 

. 152 

. 565 

. 319 

. 275 

. 277 

. 277 

. 276 

. 276 

. 73 

. 23 
63-78 

. 77 

. 482 

. 483 

. 238 

. 239 

. 238 

. 464 

. 317 

. 481 

. 241 

. 242 

. 242 

. 242 

. 242 

. 214 

. 215 

. 215 

. 215 

. 514 
514, 515 

. 235 

. 236 
357 
245 

2-2-1 
223 
223 
480 
481 
226 
227 

81 
181 

82 
181 
180 
1 58 
159 

336 

248 

359 
259 
240 
239 
240 



52 



MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 



PAGE 

TIM3ALS, Little, of Fish a la Sultan 129 
Puree for 129 
of Aspic Iced for Plover's 

Eggs a la Navarre 294 
Foie Gras a la Beatrice 251 

TOAST, Ham 43 

Marinaded Fillets of Herring on . 48 
Puree for Masking, for Herring 
Koes a la Broche . . . 308 
TOMATO Aspic for Timbal a la Pal- 

meira .... 242 

Butter, Macaroni with . . . 544 

Omelet with . . .288 

Sole with .... 301 

Cheese 592 

Cream . . . . . .620 

Sauce 27 

Jam 592 

Syrup for ... . . . 593 

Mayonnaise ..... 601 

Puree 606 

for Cheese Mousse a la Naples . 316 

Patties a la Torento . .551 

Larded Fillets of Beef with . 364 

Potatoes Breadcrumbed with . 403 

Thick 607 

Salad a l'Anglaise . . . 398 

for Cold Entrees . . .620 

TOMATOES a l'Americaine . . 395 

Farcing Mixture for 396 

al'Auban . . .396 

a la Faubert . . .396 

a la Graham . . 397 

a la Matilde ... 56 

a la Mentone . . 397 

Mixture for filling . 398 

a la Reginald . . 57 

a la Verrey 57 

a la Wellington . . 398 

Cream of, a la Papillon . . 256 

Puree for . . 256 

for Chicken a la Chanceliere . 336 

Cutlets a la Suffeen . . . 147 

Fillet of Beef a la Parisienne 363 

a la Touraine . 364 

Fillets of Beef a la Diable . 132 

Garnishing .... 620 

TONGUE, Brains and, for Garnish 

for Calf s Head a l'Andreani . 369 
Sauce for Mixing . . 369 

Farce 602 

for Egg a la Millais . . .234 

Ham or, Souffle of 211 

Ox, a la Destaing .... 367 

Sauce for. . . .367 

a la Xerxes . . . .366 

Boiled, a la Dorna . . .368 

Ragout for . . 369 

Farced Chicken with . . 341 

Slices of, a la Nazaire . . 368 

au Gratin . . 273 

Pickle for (Liquid) . . .597 

Puree 606 

for Cutlets a la Reine . .166 

TONGUES for Chicken a la Viennoise 339 

au Reveil . 337 

Turkey a la Spezzia . 345 

Little, .a la Perigord . . . 21" 

and Chickens a la d'Orleans . 231 



TONGUES, Little, and Chicken a la 


PAGK 


Viennoise . . 


339 


Farce for 


339 


in Cbaudfroid . . 


231 


TOSCAN Cakes, Little 


567 


TOURNEDOS a la Bearnaise . 


138 


a la Chauron 


139 


TRANSPARENT Orange Marmalade 


587 


TRIPE a l'Anglaise . 


327 


a la Chantilly .... 


329 


a la Francaise 


327 


a la Normande 


328 


a la Provencale 


328 


Curried, a l'lnd . 


329 


General Directions 


326 


in Fritot a la St. James 


328 


Roast, and Brown Caper Sauce 


327 


TRUFFLE for Egg a la Millais 


234 


TRUFFLES, Chaudfroid of Chicken 






224 


Cream of Pheasant with 


179 


Fresh, to Cook . 


598 


Pigeons Farced with, and Port 




Wine Sauce . . . 


352 


Quails with 


313 


TUNBRIDGE Cakes . 


566 


TURBAN a la Jessamine . 


215 


Asparagus for 


216 


Cucumber for 


216 


Farce for 


216 


of Chicken a la Piemontaise 


168 


Farce for 


169 


a la Venitienne . 


169 


Savoury Farce for 


170 


White Farce foi 




Masking . 


170 


Pigeon a la Bonanza 


188 


Farces for 


189 


TURBOT a la Chambord . 


119 


Garnish for . 


119 


Epigrams of, a la Moderne . 


119 


Fillets of, a la Chartres 


121 


Sauce for 


121 


a l'lmperatrice . 


120 


Sauce for . 


120 


Farce for . 


121 


TURKEY a la Chevet 


346 


a la Spezzia 


344 


Tongues for 


345 


Braised, with Chestnut Pur6e and 


1 


Mousseline Oyster Sauce . 


345 


Cold, a la Grande Duchesse . 


343 


Farced 


344 


TURNIP Cups for Meats, &c. . 


620 


TURNIPS, Carrots and, for Sirloin oJ 




Beef a la Pompadour 


365 


Cream of, French Beans with 


382 


Souffl of ... 


404 


TWICE Laid .... 


. 540 


VANILLA Bavaroise for Charlotte I 


l 


la Princesse 


. 471 


with Fruits . 


. 503 


Chocolate Sauce 


29 


Cream, Claret Jelly with 


497 


for Apples a la d'Orleans 


466 


Timbal of Chestnuts t 


i 


la Cannes . . 


, 481 



OF EXTRA RECIPES INDEX 



653 



PA.as 

VANILLA Cream, in Little Cases . 509 

Custard for Timbal a la Versailles 515 

Eclairs 492 

Little Creams of, and Pineapple . 503 

Souffle with Pineapple . . . 445 

VEAL Cutlets a la Jardiniere . . 32(! 

Fillets of, a la Boulanger . . 325 

Puree for . . 325 

a la St. Lawrence . 151 

Cucumber for . 152 

Farce for . . 152 

with Anchovy Butter . 326 

Galantine of, a la Francaise . . 371 

Farce for . . 372 

Gravy for. . 372 

Pie a la Savoyarde . . . 534 

Pilau a la Bombay . . . 546 

Soup a la Bourgeoise ... 59 

Stock for Consomme for 59 

VEGETABLE Garnishes . . i;i7-<J20 

Marrow a la Francaise . . . 405 

Jam ...... 587 

Marmalade .... 887 

Pickled 594 

with Fine Herbs . . . 405 
VEGETABLES a la Jardiniere . 406 
Border of Mayonnaise of, for Su- 
preme of Chicken in Blanquette 228 
Chaudfroid of Chicken with . . 225 
Sauce for 225 
Curried, for Bomb of Crab a la 

Belle Helene . . . .261 
Dressed, and Meagre Dishes 376-408 

Iced Curried 407 

Little Creams of, a la Potsdam . 406 

Pickled .... 594-596 

Puree of, with Butter . . . 405 

VENISON, Salad a la Romaine . 424 

VICTORIA Cakes . . . .570 

Soup, Thick 77 

VIENNA Cream . . . .509 

Puree for . . . 510 

Garnish for . . . 510 

Queens 579 

Sauce 28 

VIOLETS, Crystallised . . .593 

VOL-ATJ-VENT, a la Prince George 517 

Ragout for . 518 

with Fruits 533 

with Tendons a la Creme . . 518 

to prepare the Tendons . 518 

"VvAFERS, Almond . . . .569 
"WALNUTS, or Filberts, for Baba a 

la Parisienne .... 474 



PAGE 

WATER Biscuits . . . .566 

Cress and Eggs, Sandwiches with 432 

Glace for Cakes, kc. . . -617 

WELLINGTON Sauce ... 24 

WHIGS 567 

WHIPPED Cream (Coloured) . . 614 

WHITE Currant Jam ... 581 

Egg Garnish 613 

Farce for Masking Turban of 

Chicken a la Venitienne . .170 
Fish Sauce, Thin, for Fillets of 

Turbot a l'imperatrice . . 120 
Garnish for the Mould for Lobster 

a la St. Cloud . . . .303 
Mushroom Sauce . . . .IS 

Puree for Egyptian Cream . . 254 
Wine a la Zartz, Salad of Herrings 

with 418 

Cream of Whiting with . . 122 

Salad of Herring in . . . lis 

Sauce 24 

Little Creams of Fish with . 127 
WHITING, Cream of, with White 

Wine 122 

Fillets of, a TAmbassade . . 122 

a l'Excellence . . 123 

Sauce for. . . 123 

Little Creams of, it la Rovale . 123 

Sance for . . . 124 

Souffles of 124 

Souffle of, in Surprise . . . 125 

Mixture for . 125 

Ragout for . . 126 
WINE (Port) Sauce, Pigeons farced 

with Truffles and . . .352 
White, a la Zartz, Salad of Herring 

with 418 

Cream, of Whiting with . . 122 

Salad of Herring in . . . 418 

Sauce 24 

Little Creams of Fish with . 127 

WOODCOCK a la Mollard . . 353 



.ERXES Sauce 



XELLOW Apricot Sauce ... 28 

Egg Garnish 613 

YORK Ham a la Polonaise . . 372 

ZEPHYRS a la Maude . . .299 
Little, of Chicken with Peas . 173 



654 



MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 



INDEX TO ILLUSTRATIONS 





PAGE 

. 462 


Almond Charlotte a la Beatrice 


. 490 


American Meringues . 


. 459 


Anchovies a la Colmar 


. 33 


a la Saint Augustine 


. 34 


Apples a la d'Orleans . 


. 465 


Apricot Meringues 


. 458 


Pudding 


. 447 


Apricots a la Conde 


. 449 


Artichoke Bottoms a la Valentine 


. 381 




380 


Artichokes, Plain . 


. 379 


Asparagus a la Princesse 


. 377 


Suidoise Sauce 


. 377 


J3ABA a la Parisienne 


. 474 


Ballettes a la Saint Louis . 


. 236 


of Foie Gras a l'lmperiale 


. 249 


Basket a la Rosslyn 


. 492 


with Saratoga Potatoes 


. 401 


Bavaroise a l'lmperiale 


. 506 


Beignets of Pheasant a la Domini< 


jue . 179 




. 375 


Boiled Ox Tongue a la Dorna 


. 368 


Brandy Snaps with Cream . 


. 469 






\J AKE a la Clementine 


. 476 


a la Princesse Maud 


. 472 


Calf's Head a la Belgrade . 


. 370 


a la Francaise . 


. 371 


Liyer in Poupee . 


. 268 


Charlotte a la Princesse 


. 471 


Chartreuse of Fish a la Havraise 


. 263 


of Game a la Battenberg 


. 239 


Chaudf roid of Chicken with Veget 


ables 225 


of "Pigeon a la Castillanne 


. 243 


Cheese Fleur in Surprise 


39 


Chevalier Cakes .... 


. 479 


Chicken a la Bechamel 


. 334 


a la Chanceliere 


. 335 


a la Ruban6e . . 


. 163 


au Reveil 


. 337 


and Little Tongues a la Vieni 


loise 338 


Cutlets a la Peine . 


. 166 


Dormers . 


. 168 


Chicory Salad .... 


. 415 


Cold Turkey a la Grande Duchesse 


. 343- 


Coquilles a la Venitienne . 


. 296 



Crayfish a la Bordelaise . . . 


PAGE 

304 


Cream a l'lndienne . 


237 


of Chicken a l'GEuf 


172 


Hare a la Vatican . . , 


193 


Rabbit a la Duxelle . 


217 


a la Ruthven . 


248 


Tomatoes a la Papillon 


256 


Creams of Rabbit a l'Ambassadrice. . 


196 


Crepinettes a la Parisienne . 


207 


a la Villageoise . 


208 


of Duck with Peas 


206 


Croustades of Game a la Normande . 


198 


Curried Chicken a la Marie . . . 


224 


Cutlets of Chicken a la Nlmoise . 


164 


Lamb a la Chatelaine . 


219 


a la Ratisbon . . 


221 


Oysters a la Creme . , 


201 


Pigeon a l'lmperiale . . 


186 


a la Piemontaise 


188 


DeLMONICO Cake 


479 


Dressed Crab , 


80 


Duck a la Provencale . 


342 


a la Rosney . 


199 


EcLAIBS a la Palmerston 


317 


Eel in Jelly a la Dieppe . . . 


83 


Egg a la Millais 


234 


a la Mille Fruits .... 


483 


Eggs in Chaudfroid a la Bressoire 


233 


Egyptian Cream 


253 


Epigrams of Mutton a la Coblentz 


148 


Escalopes of Pigeon a la Lisbonne 


243 


Sweetbread a la Lombarde 


156 


a la Munich . 


157 


J? ILLET of Beef a la Jussienne 


361 


a la Parisienne . 


362 


a la Touraine 


363 


Fillets of Beef a la Riga 


135 


of Hare a la Due de Raguse 


195 


Larded and Roast Larks 


354 


Herring a la Brlmont 


44 


a la Rowen . 


47 


Mackerel a la Commodore 


91 


Salmon a la Roumanie 


103 


Sole a la Joinville 


115 


a la Josephine . 


116 



OF EXTEA KECIPES LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS 



655 



Fillets of Sole a la Pyreneenne . 


l'AUK 

117 


a la Waleskie 


118 


in Curry a la Midas . 


113 


of Turbot a la Chartres . 


121 


Veal a la St. Lawrence 


151 


Whiting a l'Ambassade 


122 


Fish a la Creme .... 


120 


Cream a la Metz . 


127 


Fleur a la Florence 


485 


of Apples a la Creme . 


527 


Apricots .... 


526 


with Meringue 


523 


Flower Cases a la Creme 


480 


Foie Gras a la Chateau Dore 


200 


Fruit on Cakes a la Parisienne . 


463 



IlAM and Chicken a la Douglas . 373 



.IMPERIAL Cake 



JUBILEE Quenelles 



.IDNEYS a la Louisville 



489 



217 



101 



JjAMB Cutlets a TAngelique 


146 


a l'Espagne 


220 


in Chaudfroid .... 


2 I'D 


Larks a la Cologne 




191 


a la Czarina, 





192 


a la Reyniere 




192 


a la Sotterville 




246 


in Baskets 





190 


Little Alexandra Cakes 




662 


Asparagus Creanu 


a la Val-la- 




Reine 




255 


Balls in Cases 




468 


Baskets a la Lavenue . 


478 


a la Toulouse . 


I'll 


Beatrice Cakes .... 


486 


Bombs a la Beatrice 


217 


a la Visapore 


256 


of Lobster a la Berlin . 


261 


( ) yst era a la Versailles 


25!) 


Bouches a la Paysanne . 


315 


of Foie Gras a la Russe . 


213 


Cases a la Florence 


250 


of Chicken a la Midas . 


228 


Sweetbread a la St. Clair . 


158 


Chickens a l'lmperiale . 


177 


Chickens a la Renaissance . 


230 


Coquilles a la Mondaine 


320 


Creams a la Francillon . 


173 


a la Gastronome 


226 


of Asparagus a la Montreuil 


212 


Beef 


138 


Fish with White Wine Sauce 


128 


Partridge a la Monza . 


182 


Vegetables a la Potsdam . 


407 


Whiting a la 


i Royale . 


124 



Little Croustades a la Cleveland . 

a la Creme Montglas 
a l'ltalienne 
a la Marquise . 
a la Nassau 
a la Venitienne . 
of Calf's Brains 
Game a la Bristol 
Fish a la St Pierre 

a la Waddington . 
Florida Puddings .... 

Flowers ...... 

French Cakes .... 

Hams a la Chasseur 

Mokas 

Mousses of Partridge a la Magenta 

Neva Balls 

Xougat Baskets a la Duchesse 

a la Diirer . 
Patties a la Montrose . 

of Cheese a la Torento . 
Chicken a la Mancelle 
Souffles of Chicken Cold 
Swans a la Bosphore 

a la Phrygienne . 
Timbals a la Belle Eugenie . 
a la Monaco 
of Fish a la Sultan 
Tongues and Chickens a lad'Orleans 

in Chaudfroid 
Toscan Cakes .... 
Lobster a la Boulevard 
a la Cannes 
a la St. Cloud . 



Toast 



JVlaCARONT ;\ la Casino 
Marguerite pastry 
Marinaded Fillets of Herring on 
Herrings a la Connaught 
a la Ravigote . 
Marmite Soup 

Mazarine of Salmon a la Riche 
Mince Pie a la Francaise 
Moka Cake .... 
Montmorency Pudding 
Mosaic Jelly 

Mousse of Foie Gras a la Rossini 
Muscats 

Mushroom Meringues . 
Mutton Cutlets in Timbal a la Franeaise 



Neapolitan - Cake. . 

Neck of Lamb with Cucumbers and 
Artichoke Bottoms . 
of Mutton a la Clarence 
Nerac Terrine .... 
New Carrots a la Francaise . 
Noisettes of Mutton a la Parisienne 



Olive Potatoes 
Olives a la Belle Eugenie 

a la Reine . 
Oysters a la Dumas 
in Curry a la Zola 



PAOl 

203 
522 
205 
451 

204 
204 
519 
198 
130 
130 
4:ss 
570 
557 
211 
461 
181 
107 
isi 
487 
539 
550 
520 
229 
Ptl 
258 
211 
240 
129 
232 
231 
567 
51 
52 
302 



543 

530 

48 

45 

46 

61 

105 

531 

17.-. 

440 

498 

251 

561 

400 

222 



473 

358 
357 
275 
384 
150 



402 
53 
54 

295 
93 



656 



MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S LARGER COOKERY BOOK 



PTAGE 
ARMESAN Rings .... 5;') 
Partridges a la Wellington . . .351 
Pastry Artichokes a la d'Estrees . . 525 

Potatoes 488 

Pheasant in the Pan .... 349 

Pie a la Francaise .... 537 

Pilau a la Grecque .... 546 

Plovers' Eggs in Aspic a la Victoria . 235 

Pompadours 532 

a la Stanley . . .548 
Potatoes a 1 Albert .... 398 
Progress Cake 471 



QtTAILS a l'Ecossaise . .184 

a la Lesseps . . . 245 
a la Tosca .... 185 



RABBIT a l'Epicurienne . . . 355 

Raised Fish Pie a l'Imperiale . . 538 

Red Mullets a la Francaise ... 92 

Roast Chicken a la Biarritz . . . 346 

Rockaway Eggs 76 

Round of Mutton a la Nesle . . 357 

Rump Steak a la Conti . . . 271 

Russian Jelly 497 

DAGO Pudding a la Francaise . . 442 

Salad of Fillets of Sole a l'lmpenale . 260 

Lobster a la Russe . . 262 

a la Turque 89 

Salmis of Chicken a la Regence . .175 

Quails a l'Empress . . .183 

Salmon a la Fiord .... 97 

a la Monte Carlo ... 98 

Mousse a la Dagrnar . . .106 

Sauted Chicken a la Dupre . . .162 

Sandwiches a la Fiane . . . 426 

a la Louis . . . . 428 

a la Victoria . . .431 

Sirloin of Beef a la Pompadour . . 365 

Slices of Salmon a la Vanderbilt . . 100 

Sole and Smelts Fried . . . .108 

Mounted 110 



Souffle a la Marguerite . 

of Foie Gras a la Montreal . 
Spinning Sugar .... 
Sultana Sponge Jelly . 
Supreme of Chicken a l'Esperance 
in Blanquette 
of Pheasant a la Financiere . 
a l'lmperatrice . 
a la St. Catherine 
a la St. Hubert . 



TaRTLETS & la Vandeleur 

Tennis Cake . 

Timbal a la Christina . 

a la Comorin . 

a la Florence . 

a la Jardiniere 

a la Mathilde . 

a la Palmeira . 

a la St. Agnes . 

a la Versailles . 

a la Windsor . 
of Chestnuts a la Cannes 

Chicken a la Reginald 

Crab a la Rossetti 

Pheasant a la Baronne 
Timbals of Foie Gras a la Beatrice 
Sweetbread a la Czarina 
Tomatoes a la Reginald 
Turban a la Jessamine . 

of Chicken a la Piemontaise 
a la Venitienne . 

Pigeon a la Bonanza 
Turkey a la Spezzia 



V ANILLA Bavaroise with Fruits 
Varied Hors d'ffiuvres . 
Veal Pie a la Savoyarde 
Pilau a la Bombay 
Vol-au-Vent a la Prince George . 



JEPHYES a la Maude 



PAOB 

257 
252 
467 

501 
171 
227 
154 
155 
244 
178 



56 
565 
483 
238 
465 
318 
482 
241 
215 
514 
235 
481 
227 

81 
180 
251 
159 

57 
216 
169 
170 
188 
345 



504 

49 

534 

547 
517 



299 



riUXTKD BY 
8P0TTISW00DE AND CO., NEW- STREET SQUARE 



ADVEETISEMENTS 



uu 



Advertisements. 



ASK YOUR GROCER TO GET YOU 

P OWAN'S 
BAKING 
pOWDER. 



Use none other if you desire good quality at a reasonable price. 



Important Testimonial from MARSHALL'S SCHOOL OF COOKERY. 

' I find COWAN'S BAKING POWDER is most excellent, and I shal 
always use it and recommend it in preference to others. 

' AGNES B. MARSHALL, 

' 30 Mortimer Street, W. 



IF YOU HAVE ANY TROUBLE IN GETTING IT, WRITE TO THE MANUFACTURER- 

C. C. COWAN, 

31 EACLE WHARF ROAD, LONDON, N 

u u 2 



Advertisements. 



the gold medal 

EAGLE RANGE. 

Made in all Sizes from 2 ft. to 10 ft. wide. 




CO 
ID 



to 

H 

N 

m 



m 
o 
> 

r 
to 



1st. 



3bd. 



SPECIAL ADVANTAGES. 

-This Range is independent of brick-setting. The flues are iron, very thick, 
and imperishable. Errors in setting, and consequent failure or erratic 
results, do not occur. 

2nd. The fire has an adjustable bottom grating, which, when raised in its highest 
position, will heat the ovens, hot-plate, and boiler perfectly ; but, if a joint 
has to be roasted in front, the grating can be instantly lowered, and raised 
again when the roasting is done. This grating effects a great saving in 
fuel, never gets out of order, and gives results of the highest efficiency. 
-The fire can be used open (as illustrated) or closed. The latter is for 
general cooking purposes, but, when cooking is not needed, the fire is opened. 
The opening of the fire reduces the draught, checks combustion, so that 
little attention is needed and little fuel used. It is cheerful for those in 
the kitchen, and grilling can be done on top if desired. 

4th. The pastry oven is fitted with a reversing damper, by which the heat can 
be directed to the top or the bottom, or equally; with this damper, puff 
pastry and other delicate things can be baked as efficiently as in a pastry- 
cook's oven. This is considered a great advantage by chefs, cooks, &c. 

5th. The ovens are perfectly ventilated, the inflowing air being warmed. There 
is no likelihood of the Range smoking, and its use is easily understood. 

THE EAGLE RANGeTJuTfOUNDRY COMPANY, 
176 REGENT STREET, & 58 ST. PAUL'S CHURCHYARD, LONDON. 

OATAIiOG-TJES ZFIRZEIE, 



Advertisements. 



LIEBIC COMPANY'S 

EXTBBGT OF RIEJIT. 



FINEST MEAT 

INGREDIENT 

SOUPS, 

GRAVIES, 



-^: 




FLAVOURING 

FOR 

SAUCES, 

AND ENTREES. 



^t3<- 



'The soul of good cookery is the stock-pot, and the 
best stock-pot is Liebig Company's Extract of Meat.' 

Francatelli, Chef de Cuisine to tlic late Emperor of the French. 



GENUINE ONLY IF SIGNED 
IN BLUE ACROSS THE LABEL, 



RECOMMENDED BY MRS. A. B. MARSHALL. 



Advertisements. 




Advertisements. 



BOVRILi 



^ W \ If* 



Scientific cookery, or the ' hygiene of diet,' is a fine 
art which receives but a limited share of the attention 
it merits. 

The huntsman carefully studies the diet of his horses 
and dogs with a view to certain physiological effects, 
but in the kitchen it is the exception, not the rule, to 
concoct dishes which afford true nourishment with the 
least possible expenditure of vital effort. 

Ordinary soups, meat extract, and beef teas, for 
example, are regarded by the unscientific as highly 
nourishing. Now, as an actual fact, no food is flesh- 
forming unless it contains albumen and fibrine, or the 
elements of albumen and fibrine, and that in an as- 
similable form. Ordinary beef tea or extract of meat 
contains practically no albumen or fibrine, but BOVRIL 
does, and that in liberal quantity, and in an easily 
digestible form. One ounce is guaranteed to contain 
more actual nourishment than fifty ounces of ordinary 
extract of meat or home-made beef tea, and as a basis 
for nutritious soup or an adjunct to made dishes it has no 
equal, while as an antidote to influenza and depressing 
ailments it is a reliable specific. 



Advertisements. 



purveyor to 1b.1R.1b. tbc Bufce of fiMnburgb. 



TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS- 

RUFFIN, LONDON. 





PRIZE MEDALS 

COOKERY EXHIBITIONS, LONDON 
1888-6-8-9- 



GRAND PRIZE OF 
HONOUR 
PARIS INTERNATIONAL 
EXHIBITION, 1889 




N. RUFFIN, 

55 CALOTTE STREET, EITZROY (SQUARE, 



LONDON, W. 



Riiffin's High-Class Delicacies. 



THESE SPECIALITIES are prepared with the utmost care, and under 
my own personal supervision. They have during the last few years 
gained largely in popularity, and are considered some of the finest 
delicacies of the table. They are suitable for Wedding Parties, Pic- 
nics, Yachting, Cold Luncheons, Suppers, Balls, Far-Land Travellers, 
&c, and the favour of a sample order is respectfully solicited. 






CELEBRATED FRENCH SOUPS, in Bottles and Tins. 

FRENCH SAUCES, in Bottles. ENTREES, in Tins Ready for the Table. 

GALANTINES, in lib. and 21b. Tins and Boxes. 

PRESSED BEEF, in 1 lb. and 2 lb. Tins and Boxes. 

PATES, POULTRY AND GAME, in Tins, with Terrines inside. 

CHARCUTEBJE FRANQAISE. 

P*ll Price List sent Post Free on. Application. 



Advertisements. 



SIE^ZD FOR PBOSPECTUS 

TO 30 & 32 MORTIMER STREET, LONDON, W. 




THE MOST SUCCESSFUL OF ITS KIND IN THE WORLD. 

CLASSES PERSONALLY CONDUCTED BY 

MRS. A. B. MARSHALL. 



The Queen says, " Go and see for yourself at this School what properly managed cookery 
is like. Mrs. A. B. Marshall must be doing a grand work, for pupils seem literally to pass 
through her hands by thousands." 

The World says, " On Entire Dinner Lesson Days the School of Cookery in Mortimer 
Street assumes the appearance of a culinary parliament. For consecutive hours Mrs. A. B. 
Marshall contrives to arrest the attention of cooks and mistresses while she initiates them into 
the mysteries of dainty dishes." 

The Daily Chronicle says, " Something like a revolution, or at all events a great change 
for the better, is being unostentatiously but gradually accomplished among cooks and in 
cooking, by the work carried on by Mrs. A. B. Marshall. Mrs. Marshall's genius in the art of 
cooking is a matter of notoriety." 

The Lady's Pictorial says, "No girl's education should be considered complete while 
she is deficient in such an important item as cookery, and mothers cannot do better than to 
scud their daughters to Mrs. A. B. Marshall's School of Cookery." 

THE Court Circular says, "For real practical training in cookery we should advise 
ladies to try this school in preference to any other." 



10 Advertisements. 



A FEW EXTBACTS FROM THE PEESS 

ON 

MRS. A. B. MARSHALL'S PUBLIC LECTURES. 



The Suites, October 17, 1887. 

'A Pretty Luncheon.' 

'A crowded audience, which filled to its utmost capacity the large banqueting ballot" 
Willis's Rooms, assembled on Saturday afternoon to hear Mrs. A. B. Marshall demonstratively 
explain several of the operations of high- class cookery, and to watch her prepare many recherche 
dishes, which she classified together under the title " A Pretty Luncheon." In a few clear 
words Mrs. Marshall explained what she intended to do, and how she proposed to proceed, and 
for two hours she completely engrossed the earnest attention of some 600 people, instructing 
and entertaining them at the same time. At the end of the lecture, or performance, whichever 
it may be called, her labours elicited a unanimous outburst of applause.' 

The ^Kornmfl ~gost, October 17, 1887. 
'Watching Mrs. Marshall, it seemed the simplest thing in the world to bone game and 
poultry, to make purees, sauces, chaudf roids, omelets, jellies and ices ; but what was done with 
consummate ease at Willis's Rooms, must, in the nature of things, have been the result of 
great patience and practice, combined with the gift of natural dexterity. At the close of the 
lecture, the various plats compounded were exhibited on the platform, and attracted much 
admiration.' 

The (gecos ^ftcrcitrs, August 1G, 1887. 

'A Finn Luncheon.' 

'It was delightful to watch her and listen to her. Her operations have been compared to 
legerdemain, so deftly and expeditiously are they performed; but it is not the object of her 
conjuring to mystify, but to make clear. Her talk is not meant to divert the attention of her 
hearers, and so heighten the surprise that is in store for them, but to show how they may do 
for themselves what she so gracefully and effectively performs. Mrs. Marshall wastes nothing. 
She does not even waste woidi; still less does she waste time. When her luncheon is 
finished her work is done. There is no litter behind to clear up. She believes in sending out 
a meal from the kitchen as neatly as she serves it in the dining room, and in leaving the 
kitchen as orderly at the end of her operations as at the beginning. She works, in fact, without 
fuss and without stain. The aprons she and her assistants wore on Monday may do for 
any number of " Pretty Luncheons." They must have been worn for form's sake. Their 
protective value was wholly fanciful.' 

SJlerocasflc @f)nmiclc, August 18, 1887. 
'At the Pretty Luncheon." 

' In well chosen words she informed her audience what she was going to cook, and how she 
was going to do it. Her instructions are clear and direct, but while she was talking her hands 
were never for a moment idle. The most difficult feats in cooking seemed ridiculously easy 
under her skilled manipulation. Talk of transformation scenes, or legerdemain, they were as 
nothing to the astounding changes Mrs. Marshall made. 

' We looked with a feeling akin to awe at the graceful, kindly lady, who is rapidly raising 
cookery to a fine art. The most fastidious could watch Mrs. Marshall witii pleasure, and the 
highest compliment that I can pay her is to say that after seeing her cook one longs to partake 
of the viands she has prepared. 

' After Mrs. Marshall finishes dishing up she announces that the lecture is over, and not till 
then does anyone rise from a seat a conclusive proof of how interesting her operations must 
have been.' 

"gSurming^cmt Datis ^ost, August 10. 

' None of those present could fail to see that the lady was a most accomplished artist, and 
such of the audience as were responsible for furnishing forth the tables of wealthy families 
must have longed to take a few lessons from her at her London school.' 

3tfcmd)Csfer (SltCtrotatt, August 12. 
1 All the processes were carried out with a skill and dexterity which must have made Mis. 
Marshall the envy of every lady present.' 

"jJfleiDcastle Paitg JLeabet, August 18. 
' Mrs. Marshall managed to keep her audience perfectly spell-bound. The lecture throughout 
was of the most wonderful character.' 



Advertisements. 11 

MARSHALL'S SCHOOL OF COOKERY 

30 & 32 MORTIMER STREET, LONDON, W. 

mm- 



CLASSES. Personally conducted by Mrs. A. B. Mahshall, daily, 

except Saturdays, 10.80 a.m. to 4 ivm. 
AGENCY. For engagement of permanent Cooks. Address the Lady 

Superintendent. 
STAFF COOKS. Cooks sent to any part of the country for special Dinners, 

Ball Suppers, Wedding Breakfasts, &c. 
HIRE. For supplying all descriptions of Dinner Table and Kitchen 

requisit* 
STORES. Any of the following will be sent post free : 

No. 1. Catalogue of Culinary Dainties and Special Goods prepared by Mrs. 
A. B. Marshall. 

No. 2. Catalogue of Culinary and Kitchen Requisites, (>1 Pages of Illustra- 
tions. 

No. 3. Catalogue of Moulds, 88 I "ages of Illustrations, including all the 
newest designs. 

No. 4. Price List of Wines, Spirits and Liqueurs. Speciality in Cooking 
Wines. 

Every Kitchen Requisite supplied at the cheapest price compatible with 
quality. Catalogues and Price Lists free. 



ESTIMATES GIVEN FREE 

FOR THE ENTIRE FURNISHING OF KITCHENS 

IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE REQUIREMENTS OP 

MOEEBN C O O IEC IE IR, ^, 

Thus avoiding the numerous superfluous articles often supplied by those who have 
no practical knowledge of the use of the goods they sell. The prices of any of 
the articles sold in this department will compare favourably with those of any of 
the large ' Stores.' 

KITCHEN RANGES. 

Any of the best-known Ranges supplied at manufacturers' prices. No charge 
is made for consultations as to which kind is best adapted to meet the require- 
ments of any household. Some Ranges being best suited for one purpose, some 
for another, a great amount of annoyance and loss is avoided by taking com- 
petent advice before selecting, as, naturally enough, each manufacturer, if applied 
to, will endeavour to persuade the purchaser that his is the best. 

GA8 COOKERS. 

In regard to these, the same remarks may be made as for Kitchen Ranges. 
Mrs. A. B. Makshall has practically tested and cooked with all the leading kinds, 
and, moreover, has heard the experiences of thousands of practical cooks who 
have been her pupils. 



12 



Advertisements, 



The Importance, of Good Icing Sugar is known to all Confectioners. 



-j 

Hi 
bo 

a 
'? 








CD 

O 

g 
M 
O 

H 

ft 

m 

i 


M 

CO 



CJ J N J J rj ,vj , VV r 



IN TINS, 1 lb., 21bs., 3 lbs., and 7 lbs., at 9d. per lb., per Parcel Post, with Postage 
Rates added. 

Recipes by Mrs. A. B. Marshall for ROYAL ICING, ORNAMENTAL ICING, PARISIAN ICING, 
VIENNA ICING, and ALMOND ICING, are on every tin, for Wedding, Christening, Birthday, 
and other Cakes and Sweets. 



TIN ICING PIPES. 

For Ornamental Icing. 

SCREW PIPE. 




40 Different Designs. 
Bags Bd. each. Pipes 6d. each. In boxes containing 1 doz. assorted, with bag and screw, 7/6' 

Screws 6d. each. 



Advertisements. 13 



THE PUREST, BEST, AND REALLY THE CHEAPEST. 



MARSHALL'S 



FINEST 



LEAF GELATINE 

FOR DOMESTIC AND CULINARY PURFOSES. 

2S. G<7. PER POUND, AND IN PACKETS, 1*. id., !>'/.. AND H(l. 

Sold only in White Cardboard Boxes, bearing Name and Address. 
BEWARE OF UNWHOLESOME IMITATIONS. 



It is of the utmost importance that Purchasers of Gelatine should buy only such as they 
can depend upon for purity and quality. The injurious substances sometimes put in are 
iint only prejudicial to health and digestion, but tend also to disappoint the cook in the results 
she expected, whether in the matter of brilliancy <>f the jelly <>r the flavour of some other dish 

MARSHALL'S FINEST LEAF GELATINE, 

Sold only in White Cardboard Boxes, with Name and Address, can in every respect be 

DEPENDED UPON. 



MARSHALL'S FINEST LEAF GELATINE 



STANDS UNRIVALLF.D FOR 



Quality, Strength, Purity, 
Delicacy, and Cheapness. 

It is made of choicest materials, yields a perfectly pure, tasteless, and 
crystalline jelly. 

It is easy to handle, dissolves immediately, requires no soaking, and is 
more economical than any other. 



2 -lb. Samples sent to any address on receipt of 5s. Obtainable of any 

respectable Grocer. 

MARSHALL'S SUPERFINE FELT JELLY BAGS. 

Without Seam, various sizes. No. 10, 3*.; No. 12, 3.?. M. ; No. 15, 4s. 4//. Post Free, 3c/. each 
extra. Every Bag is stamped with name and size. 



14 



Advertisements. 





E DE BIZ. 



PER TIN, ONE SHILLING. 
This Label, but in Colours, is on every Tin, 



NONE OTHER GENUINE, 



A A * MARSHALL S f AA^ 




This superior article is highly prized for Cakes, Puddings, Blanc- 
manges, Biscuits, Soups, &c. 



EACH TIN CONTAINS SPECIAL RECIPES ON THE WRAPPER BY Mrs. A. B MARSHALL 



Advertisements. 15 

MARSHALL'S 

CORALLINE PEPPER 

(REGISTERED). 



A pure natural pepper, of delicious, pleasant and delicate flavour. 

It facilitates digestion and imparts vitality, and is much esteemed by epicures. 

Being of a most brilliant red colour, it can be used for decoration in place of 
Lobster Coral. 

It is distinct from Cayenne, and is not much hotter than fine ordinary 
pepper. 

It will be found most delicious to use alone as a Curry Powder. 

It can be served at table in cellars as Salt is usually served. 

It can be strongly recommended for use in Sauces, Purees, Hors d'oeuvres, 
Soups, Fish, Hot Entrees, Cold Entrees and Removes. 

It supplies a great want. 

( 1 uaranteed free from artificial colouring. 

IN BOTTLES, ONE SHILLING. 
PACKED IN RED CARDBOARD BOXES. 



MARSHALL'S HARMLESS VEGETABLE COLOURS. 

LIQUID COLOURS : 

Carmine, Sap Green, and Saffron, in bottles, &<1. each, for colouring Jellies, 
Creams, Blancmanges, &c. 

PASTE COLOURS: 

Apple Green, Cherry Red, Damson Blue, Coffee Brown, Apricot Yellow, in bottles, 
Is. each, for colouring Ices, Sauces, &c. 



MARSHALL'S CONCENTRATED ESSENCES. 

In bottles, 8d. each. These bottles are the same size as those usually sold retail 
at Is. Vanilla, Almond, Lemon, Ratafia, Pear, Pineapple, Banana, Citron. 



1G 



Advertisements. 



AN EXQUISITE AND DELICATELY FLAVOURED CURRY. 




Per bottle, 6d., Is., and. 2s. This Label on each bottle. 



INADED FILLETS OF HERRINGS, 

IN TINS, 

With White Wine Sauce, 




JV1USHROOM SAUCE, 

TOMATO SAUCE, 

flCKLES, 

SAUCE Ac. 



IN GLASS. 

o 

Marinaded Sardines 

Is. 

CRAYFISH BODIES 

Is. 3d., 2s. 

CHRISTIANIA ANCHOVIES, 
Is. 

SOLE IMPORT AGENT: 

< 30 & 32 MORTIMER STREET, W. t 



is. 3d. 
and 
2s. 



Advertisements. 



17 



SPECIMENS FROM 

THE BOOK OF MOULDS, 

Containing 68 pages of Illustrations, published by 

MARSHALL'S SCHOOL OF COOKERY 

And sent Post-Free on application. 



COPPER JELLY AND CREAM MOULDS. 

No. 369. No. 364. 

ALEXANDRA MOOLD AND LINING. BRUNSWICK STAR MOULD AND LINING. 




No. 1 Price 13*. 6^. complete. 

Without lining, 9*. $d. 
No. 2 Price 18*. complete. 

Without lining, 13*. C>d. 

No. 365. 



No. 307a. 



No. 1 Price 13*. (id. complete. 

Without lining, 9*. 9&, 
No. 2 Price 18*. complete. 

Without lining, L3*. (id. 



No. S66. 



No. 367. 




2 pints. Price 8*. 3d. 
No. 368. 



Price 10*. dd. each. 



No. 370 



4i 

Price 9*. each 



i* pints |03_- 3 a.3US NT3 



Price 6.<. each. 
No. 381. 




33 



4*- 

Price 9*. 9d. each. 

No. 348D. 



taints 
Price 7*. 6d. each. 



-* 37s -* 

J 'rice 6*. each. 




COPPER BORDER MOULDS. 

No. 348e. 



504 ~~l%PINT$ 
-\'k " 

Price 9s. Vd. each. 



No. 343A. 




"iHtil; 



Dfameter 6 in., Capacity a p t. 
Price 10*. dd. each. 




Length G* in., Capacity lj pts., 
Price 13*. 




6 in. diameter, 9/7. 9<7. 

XX 



18 



Advertisements. 



SPECIMENS FROM 

THE BOOK OF MOULDS, 

Containing 88 pages of Illustrations, published by 

MARSHALL'S SCHOOL OF COOKERY 

And sent Post Fkeb on application. 



No. 72a. 



TIN MOULDS. 

No. 72b. 



No. 72c. 




5 in., 3s. 9d 



">! -in.. 4s. 



G in., 4s. Qd. 



Advertisements. 



19 



SPECIMENS FROM 

THE BOOK OF MOULDS, 

Containing 68 pages of Illustrations, published by 

MARSHALL'S SCHOOL OF COOKERY 

And sent Post Free on application. 



SMALL MOULDS. 

No. 202. FISH MOULD. No. 203. CRAWFISH. 




4/, in., G*. per doz. 
No. 20 1. CHICKEN. 





-, in.. 6#. per doz. 



Nu. 207. 
FANCY HOUCHE CUPS. 




Copper tinned, t!*. per doz. 



No. 215e. 
FANCY MOULD. 




Copper tinned, 
10*. per doz. 



3| in.. 6f. per dnz. 

No. 206. HAM. 



No. 2o.V\. TONGUE. 




4 in., 6s. per doz. 



No. 205. COPPER EGG 





2 in., t;,w per doz 



No. 208. 
COPPER BOUCHE CUP 




15*. per doz. 



2 in. diam., 8/. per doz. 
Tin, 3*. per doz. 
Tin without Indent, 2*. per doz. 



No. 2i:>j. 
COPPER TIMBAL CUP. 



No. 215h. 
COPPER BOMP.E. 




15. per doz. 




!)*. per doz. 

x x 2 



20 



Advertisements. 



SPECIMENS FROM 

THE BOOK OF MOULDS, 

Containing 68 pages of Illustrations, published by 

MARSHALL'S SCHOOL OF COOKERY 

And sent FOR Fri:i; on application. 



SMALL MOULDS. 

No 217B-SWAN MOULD. No. 217c. SMALL BASEST MOULD 

FOR NOUGAT, PASTE, \. 




12.--. per dosen. 
217a. 
ASPARAGUS MOULD. 




No. 215B. 

BUTTERFLY MOULD. 





lo*. per do*. 

No. 192A. 
MONACO MOULD. 



Copper tinned, LOt. per doz. 

No. 208a. 
COPPER BOMBE MOULD. 





Jin., 5*. and fis. per doz. 



No. 220. 
LARGE ROSE PIPE. 



1 5*. per doz. 

No. 221. 
VINE LEAF. 




Forcing Pipes. 6-i. each. 




3 per doz. 



10a per doz. 

No. 218A. 
P.ARREL MOULDS. 




For Patties, fcc., per do*., 12*. 

No. 215A. 

HORSE SHOE. 




Copper tinned, 12s. per doz. 



No 222 
LARGE PLAIN PIPE. 




Forcing Pipes, 6d. each. 

3 Sizes of Mouth, J, 

J , and % inch. 



Advertisements. 



21 



SPECIMENS FROM 

THE BOOK OF MOULDS, 

Containing 68 pages of Illustrations, published by 

MARSHALL'S SCHOOL OF COOKERY 

And sent Post Free on application. 



No. 193. 
PLAIN DARIOLS. 



SMALL MOULDS. 

No. 200. 
OVAL DARIOLS. 



No. 194. 
FLUTED DARIOLS. 





2,i. Bd, and 3s. per doz. 
No. 195. IMPROVED 
FLUTED DARIOLS. 




">.?. per dozen. 
No. 197. CUTLET TINS. 



It. 6d. per doz. 

No. 201.- CORNET TINS. 



2,s\ 6d. peT doz. 
No. 209. 



5#. per doz. 



No. ids. -FLUTED 
BOUCHE CUPS. 




4.*?. per doz. 
No. 196. HEXAGON 
DARIOLS. 





Ix. per dozen. 



It. ;md li$. per doz. 
No. 199. ROSE. 






3*. per doz. 
No. 201a. SANDWICH MOULDS 





2*. per doz. 

No. 215i. 
WALNUT MOULDS. 




2.. and B.f. per doz. 



For Petits Fours, kc, 2g. per doz. 



22 



Adrcrtisements. 



SPECIMENS FROM 

THE BOOK OP MOULDS, 

Containing 68 pages of Illustrations, published by 

MARSHALL'S SCHOOL OF COOKERY 

And sent Post Free on application. 



BY ROYAL LETTERS PATENT. 

MARSHALL'S PATENT FREEZER. 



IS PRAISED BY ALL WHO KNOW IT 

FOB 

CHEAPNESS in first cost. 

CLEANLINESS in working. 
ECONOMY in use. 

SIMPLICITY in construction. 
RAPIDITY in Freezing. 

No Packing necessary. No Spatula 
necessary. 

jSmooth and Delicious Ice. produced in Hire 
minutes. 




I'ciMl'LK'l'i: raw. 



SIZES No. 1, to freeze any quantity up to 1 quart. 1. 5s. : No. 2, for 2 quarts, 1. 15s. ; No. :i, for 4 quarts, 
3 ; No. 4, for 6 quarts, 4. Larger sizes to order. 




VKKT1CAL SKtTIo.N. 



Shewing the fan inside, which remains still while the pan revolves and scrapes up the film of ice as it tonus on 
the bottom of the pan. 

The ice and salt is also shewn under the pan : there is no need to pack any round the sides. 

PATENT ICE BREAKER. 



No. 3, Price 3 each. 

Will take a piece of ice about 
5 inches by 6 inches by 8 inches, 
breaking it into pieces about the 
size of chestnuts. 




No. 4, Price 1. 10s. each. 

Will take a piece of ice about 
4 inches by 4 inches by 6 inches, 
and breaks it into very small 
pieces. 



Advertisements. 



23 



SPECIMENS FROM 

THE BOOK OF MOULDS, 

Containing 68 pages of Illustrations, published by 

MARSHALL'S SCHOOL OF COOKERY 

And sent Post Free on application. 



BY ROYAL LETTERS PATENT. 

MARSHALL'S PATENT ICE CAVE. 




USES. 

FOR SETTING H'E PUDDINGS without the use of grease or chance of brine entering, and without the 
expense of special moulds, ice puddings when moulded can be turned out and kept ready for use at any minute, so 
that the ice oan be made and held ready before commencing to serve the dinner, if necessary. 

FOR FREEZING SOUFFLES it offers great advantages, as the progress of freezing can be examined from time 
to time. The souffles can always be kept ready for use. 

FOR INVALIDS to have always at hand a supply of ice or iced food or drink, or for food or drink to be kept hot 
for any length of time. It is especially useful in nurseries in the latter resect. 

FOR OONFECTIONEB8 t.> send out ice paddings, Ac., quite ready for serving; for keeping ice creams, &c. 
ready for selling. 

FOR KEEPING ICES during Balls, 
livening and Garden Parties, and for 
taking ice creams, &c, to Races, Pic- 
nics. Sco. 

If the interstices between the cave 
and the metal casing be properly filled 
with a mixture of two parts ice and one 
of salt, so great is the cold produced in 
the internal cave that it will freeze a 
quantity of water placed in the inner 
cave into a solid mass, and the tempera- 
ture produced will stand for some 
hours at 3 - .' degrees of frost. If instead 
of ice and salt only ice be used, the 
temperature in the cupboard will re- 
main at freezing point. 

Both on the body of the machine 
and on the door there is a screw plug 
tixed, by means of which the brine, 
water &c, can be drawn off from 
between the metals, thus rendering 
it possible to recharge the machine 
without disturbing the contents of the 
cupboard. It will be perceived, there- 
fore, that by recharging the machine 
when necessary a high or low degree of 
temperature can be maintained for 
any length of time whatever. 
size 3> four quart moulds. Size 4 will hold six 
mineral waters, &C, and kept in dining. 




LID OFF HKADY FOR CHARGING. 



SIZE No. 1 will hold one quart mould. Size 2, two quart moulds 
large champagne bottles. Sizes No. 2 and upwards can be used for icin 
smoking and billiard rooms. 

PRICES. 



No. 1 1. 11. v. 64. 



No. 2 2. 2f. No. 3 C3. 3. 

Larger and Special sizes to order. 



So. I 64. In. 



24 



Advertisements. 



SPECIMENS FROM 

THE BOOK OF MOULDS, 

Containing 68 pages of Illustrations, published by 

MARSHALL'S SCHOOL OF COOKERY 

And sent Post Free on application. 



MARSHALL'S 
CABINET REFRIGERATORS. 

ALL MODERN. IMPROVEMENTS. 



Ventilated 
Lock and Key 

to each 
compartment, 




closed Air Valves 

preventing 

the ingress of 

warm air. 



These Refrigerators have gained Prizes at several Continental Exhibitions 
whenever exhibited, and the Prices are cheaper than any other make. 









PaintedBrown and 


Oak Grained and 




Outside Measurements with in i an 


White, Braps and 


Polished. 








Japanned Fittings 


Plated Fittings 


No. 


Height 


Width 


Depth 


$. d. 


s. d. 


la 


30-in. 


23-in. 


l!t-in. 


3 


3 10 


1 


33-in. 


24-in. 


20-in. 


3 15 


4 10 


2 


34-in. 


28-in. 


22-in. 


4 10 


5 5 


3 


36-in. 


32-in. 


22-in. 


5 5 


6 6 


4 


40-in. 


:$7-in. 


24-in. 


6 10 


7 5 


5 


40-in. 


26- in. 


22-in. 


5 15 


6 10 


6 


34-in. 


40-in. 


22-in. 


7 7 


8 8 


6a 


44-in. 


40-in. 


22-in. 


8 8 


9 9 


7 


46-in. 


46-in. 


24-in. 


9 9 


10 10 


8 


40-in. 


54-in. 


26-in. 


10 10 


11 11 


9 


46-in. 


52-in. 


24-in. 


11 11 


12 15 


10 


52-in. 


56-in. 


26-in. 


13 13 


15 


11 


62-in. 


35-in. 


28-in. 


8 


9 


12 


62-in. 


35-in. 


28-in. 


13 


14 5 


13 


64-in. 


35-in. 


28-in. 


14 


15 10 


14 


64-in. 


35 in. 


28-in. 


13 15 


15 5 


15 


70-in. 


62-in. 


30-in. 


28 


30 


16 


71-in. 


60-in. 


28-in. 


26 


28 10 



Illustrated Catalogues Post Free, containing the designs of the different Numbers of 

these Refrigerators. 

FOUR-PRONGED ICE BREAKER. 

Made of Best Steel. 




Price 3s. each. 



Advertisements. 



25 



SPECIMENS FROM 

3Uustrate& Catalogue of Ibousebolo anfc Ikitcben IRequtsites 

Published by 

MARSHALL'S SCHOOL OF COOKERY 

Containing 48 pages of Illustrations. Sent Post Free on application. 



MORTARS AND PESTLES. 



BEST 
ITALIAN MARBLE 

Fitted into 
Solid Wood Blocks. 

Height 2 feet 8 inches. 

Iron Bound and 
Painted Stone Colour. 




Diameter. 


Price." 


11 inches 


5. Is. Od. 


13 


6. 16*. Od. 


16 .. 


Q. 11. v. 9d. 



Other dsea in proportion. 



COMPOSITION. 

Mortars only, two-thirds the quoted prices. 



BEST ITALIAN MARBLE. 
SANDED VERY SMOOTH INSIDE. 





Diain. 
Price 

Diarn. 
Price 



Inside Dimensions. 

. 6$ 6.1 7.\ 8 inches. 
. 3/8 4/6 6/6 6/6 each. 

... it 10} 12i inches. 
... 9/- 12/- 17/6 each. 



Outside Dimensions. Prices without Pestle. 

Diam 8 9 10 11 inches. 

Price 6/9 8/6 9/6 12/- each. 

Diam. ... 13 15 17 inches. 

Price ... 16/9 27/- 34/6 each. 



LIGNUM VIT.E PESTLES. 




Prices, l.v. 9d., U. lid., 2s., 2s. 3d., '2s. (Jd. 
St., 8s. 5d., 3s. Od., is. 2d., is. 6d. each. 

Ditto, with Long Ash Handles. 
Prices, It. *>'/., 8*. 3d., 9*., 10*. 3d. each. 



26 



Advertisements. 



SPECIMENS FROM 

illustrated Catalogue of f>ousebolo auo Ikitcbeu IRequisites, 

Published by 

MARSHALL'S SCHOOL OF COOKERY 

Containing 48 pages of Illustrations. Sent Post Free on application. 



BAIN MARIE PANS 

WITH PLATES AND VESSELS COMPLETE. 




BEST QUALITY BRAZED COPPER, with Falling Handles. 
All these Articles arc Tinned with Pan Tta. 
No. of Vessels 7 !> 11 12 14 

Price 4. ls.. 9rf. C6. l.. <l. 7. 9s. 3rf. 8. 9s. 6-/. 9. 17*. 9rf. 

A seomci quality may also be obtained to order. 



1 

611 U. t;</. 



WROUGHT BTEEL 



9 Vessels 
11 Vessels 



3 13 o 
4 6D 



9 Vessels 
12 Vessels 



WROUGHT IRON 
With Inst 1'lanished Tin \ 



1 16 

i 2 



COPPER STEWPANS AND COVERS 

Tinned inside with Pure Tin. 




Diameter 


3 


3i 4 4i 5 5i 6 7 8 9 


10 11 


12 


13 inches. 


Capacity 


* 


f 1 H 2 24 3 5 7 10 


14 18 


a 


32 pints. 


Best Quality 


5/6 


5/9 6/- 6/9 7 3 7 ft 8/9 1 1 ! 15/3 19/3 


23/9 29/9 


35/- 


43/9 each. 


2nd Quality . . . 




5/3 5!) G- 6/6 7/3 7!) M 3 13 '6 16 3 
For larger and other sizes see full catalogue. 


19/9 22/3 


27'- 


31/6 






SEAMLESS STEEL 3TEWPANS 








Tinned with Pure Tin. Same thickness ami might as ordinary 


Copper Stewpans. " 




Diameter 


4 


5 6 7 8 9 


10 


11 


12 inches. 


Price 


3/- 


3/7 4/2 4/10 5/5 6 - 


7/2 


8/5 


10/3 each. 



OMELET PANS 

Tinned Inside, with bright Iron Handles. 



CUTLET OR SAUT3 PANS 




Diameter 
Price ... 



Best Quality, copper round. 
7 8 '9 10 11 

4/9 5/9 6/3 8/- 9/3 

Oval Copper from 4/6 to 12/3. 




12 inches. 
10/6 each. 



Diameter 8 9 

Best Copper 6/9 8/3 

Wrought Steel 3/6 

Bright Steel, 8, 9,10 and 11 in. -2/8 3/- 3/3 3/9 each. - Sanitary Steel 2/6 3/- 



10 



*/ 
3/8 



11 12 inches. 

11/3 12/9 each. 

4/6 5/3 

4/9 5 '8 



Advertisements. 



27 



SPECIMENS FROM 

$llustratefc> Catalogue of Ibousebolo ano ikitcbcn IRequfsites, 

Published by 

MARSHALL'S SCHOOL OF COOKERY 

Containing 48 pages of Illustrations. Sent Post Free on application. 

THE ROTARY KNIFE CLEANING MACHINE. 



Made of the best 

materials, combined with 

first-class workmanship, 

and contains all the 

latest improvements. 



UNIVERSAL 
VEGETABLE SLICER. 

For Potatoes, Cucumbers, Cakuots, ONIONS, 

Candied Peel, Apples, German, fcc., 

Sausages, Dried Beets &c. 




To clean from 2 to 9 

knives at once and a 

carver. 

On liOw Stand, as drawn. 

On High Stand. 



PARAGON MINCER. 

Fitted with one row of knives only, and 

specially designed for those to whom first cost 

is the principal consideration. 




This is the most Rapid, Economical, and 

Perfect Slicer, 

For Hotels and Restaurants it is indispensable. 

For Private Kitchens it supplies a decided want. 

By altering the blades the thickness of the 

slices can be regtdated. Price 7.s\ Gd. 

PISH FRYERS, 

WITH WIRE DRAINERS, 



By which the Fish, when 
cooked, can be suspended 



The knives can be instantly removed, if desired, 
to facilitate cleaning. 
Price 13*. ''<'/, 16*. ( .d.. 22a., 31*. 6^/., (I*, each. 



Length : ... 12 

Best quality, Copper ... 40s. 




over the fat, thus allowing 
it to dry and be kept warm. 



18 
54*. 



20 



22 inches. 
each. 



Wrought Steel... 



9s. dd. 10*. 6d. U.9d. 14s. 15s. M. 17s. M. 19*. 6d. 25*. 35*. 



28 



#A 



Advertisements. 
SPECIMENS FROM 

3llustratefc ^Catalogue of Ibousebolo ano ikttcben IRequisites 

Published bv ' 

MARSHALL'S SCHOOL OF COOKERY 

Containing ^8 pages of Illustrations. Sent Post Free on. application. 
MARSHALL'S AMErSjAN TOASTERS. 



Price 3*. each. 




FRENCH EGG POACHERS. 




Prices 



8 4 6 Eggs. 

3/_ 4/- 5/6 each. 



BRIGHT TIN STEW PANS. 




Per set of 9 without covers, 10*. dd. 
Per set of 7 with covers, 7*. 6d. 

The most serviceable Investment for 
any Kitchen. 

TINNED WIRE PASTRY RACKS 



FRENCH IMPROVED WHISKS, all Wire. 






Prices 9^., 1*. 2d., and 1*. 4d. each. 

SALAMANDERS. 



Price 2s. each. 




Diameter 
Withstand ... 
Without Stand 



3* 


4 


V- 


7/3 


4/9 


5/- 



7/9 
5/6 



6 


u 


6 


6^ inches 


8/3 


9/3 


9/6 


9/9 each 


/- 


V- 


7/3 


7/6 






M^HHH 



j%aJS 3ij 



