
i 



THE A & P 

EVERYDAY COOK 



AND 



RECIPE BOOK 



Containing more than Tiro Thousand Practical Recipes for Cooking 
every kind of Meat, Fish, Poultry, Game, Soups, Broths, Vege- 
tables and Salads. Also for making all kinds of Plain and 
Fancy Breads, Pastries, Puddings, Cakes, Creams, Ices, 
Jellies, Preserves, Marmalades, etc., together with 
Various Miscellaneous Recipes for Preparation 
of Food and Attention to Invalids, cdl care- 
fully prepared and practically tested. 



By MISS E. NEIL. 



Copyright by J. S. Ogilvie. 



THE GREAT ATLANTIC AND PACIFIC TEA CO., 

publishers: 
3(5 & 37 VESEY STREET, 

NEW YORK. 

200 Stores in the United States, 



THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOi- 



Op all the arts upon which the physical well-beir 
man, in his social state, is dependent, none has been more 
neglected than that of cookery, though none is more im- 
portant, for it supplies the very fountain of life. The 
preparation of human food, so a3 to make it at once 
wholesome, nutritive, and agreeable to the palate, has 
hitherto been beset by imaginary difficulties and strong 
prejudices. 

Many persons associate the idea of wealth with culinary 
perfection ; others consider unwholesome, as well as ex- 
pensive, everything that goes beyond the categoric 
boiling, roasting, and the gridiron. All are aware that 
wholesome and luxurious cookery is by no means incom- 
patible with limited pecuniary means; whilst in roasted, 
boiled, and broiled meats which constitute what is termed 
true American fare, much that is nutritive and agree, 
often lost for want of skill in preparing them. Food of 
every description is wholesome and digestible in prop : 
as it approaches nearer to the state of complete digc 
or, in other words, to that state termed chyr 36 the 

chyle or milky juice that afterwards forms blood is absorbed, 
:>nveyed to the heart. Now nothing is further from 
this state than raw meat and raw vegetables. Fire is there- 
fore necessary to soften them, and thereby begin that elab- 
oration which is consummated in the stomach. The pre- 



8 THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 

paratory process, which forms the cook's art, is more or less 
perfect in proportion as the aliment is softened, without 
losing any of its juices or flavor — for flavor is not only an 
agreeable but a necessary accompaniment to wholesome food. 
Hence it follows, that meat very much underdone, whether 
roasted or boiled, is not so wholesome as meat well done 
but retaining all it3 juices. And here comes the necessity 
for the cook's skill, which is so often at fault even in these 
simple modes of preparing human nourishment. 

Pork, veal, lamb, and all young meats, when not thor- 
oughly cooked, are absolute poison to the stomach; and if 
half-raw beef or mutton are often eaten with impunity, it 
must not be inferred that they are unwholesome in their semi- 
crude state, but only less wholesome than the young meats. 

Vegetables, also, half done, which is the state in which 
they are often sent to the table, are productive of great 
gastric derangement, often of a predisposition to cholera. 

A great variety of relishing, nutritive, and even elegant 
dishes, may be prepared from the most homely materials, 
which may not only be rendered more nourishing, but be 
made to go much farther in a large family than they usually 
do. The great secret of all cookery, except in roasting and 
broiliDg, is a judicious use of butter, floar, and herbs, and 
the application of a very slow fire — for good cooking re- 
quires only gentle simmering, but no boiliDg up, which only 
renders the meat hard. Good roasting can only be acquired 
by practice, and the perfection lies in cooking the whole 
joint thoroughly without drying up the juice of any part 
of it. This is also the case with broiling; while a joint un- 
der process of broiling, as wo have said, should be alio . 
to simmer gently. 

With regard to made dishes, as the horrible imitations 
of French cookery prevalent in America are termed, we 
must admit that they are very unwholesome. All the 
juices are boiled out of the meat which is swimming in a 



THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 9 

«• 
heterogeneous compound, disgusting to the sight, and sea- 
soned so strongly with spice and Cayenne pepper enough to 
inflame the stomach of an ostrich. 

French cookery is generally mild in seasoning, and free 
from grease; it is formed upon the above-stated principle 
of reducing the aliment as near to the state of chyme as 
possible, without injury to its nutritive qualities, rendering 
it at once easy of digestion and pleasant to the taste. 

HINTS ON MARKETING. 

In the first place, the housewife ought, where it is pos- 
sible, to do her marketing herself, and pay ready money for 
everything she purchases. This is the only way in which she 
can be sure of getting the best goods at the lowest price. 
We repeat that this is the only way compatible with 
economy; because, if a servant be entrusted with the buy- 
ing, she will, if she is not a good judge of the quality of 
articles, bring home those she can get for the least money 
(and these are seldom the cheapest); and even if she is a 
good judge, it is ten to one against her taking the trouble 
to make a careful selection. 

When the ready-money system is found inconvenient, and 
an account is run with a dealer, the mistress of the house 
ought to have a pass-book in which she should write down 
all the orders herself, leaving the dealer to fill in only the 
prices. Where this is not done, and the mistress neglects 
to compare the pass-book with the goods ordered every 
time they are brought in, it sometimes happens, either by 
mistake, or the dishonesty of the dealer, or the servant, 
that goods are entered which were never ordered, perhaps 
never had, and that those which were ordered are over- 
charged; and if these errors are not detected at the time, 
they are sure to be difficult of adjustment afterwards. For 
these and other economic reasons, the housewife should 
avoid running accounts, and pay ready money. 



10 THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 

RULES FOR EATING. 

Dr. Hall, on this important subject, gives the following 
advice: 

1. Never sit down to table with an anxious or disturbed 
mind; better a hundred times intermit that meal, for there 
will then be that much more food in the world for hungrier 
stomachs than yours; and besides, eating under such cir- 
cumstances can only, and will always, prolong and aggra- 
vate the condition of things. 

2. Never sit down to a meal after any intense mental 
effort, for physical and mental injury are inevitable, and no 
one has a right to deliberately injure body, mind, or 
estate, 

3. Never go to a full table during bodily exhaustion — 
designated by some as being worn out, tired to death, used 
up, over done, and the like. The wisest thing to be done 
under such circumstances is to take a cracker and a cup of 
warm tea, either black or green, and no more. In ten min- 
utes you will feel a degree of refreshment and liveliness 
which will be pleasantly surprising to you; not of tho tran- 
sient kind which a glass of liquor affords, but permanent; 
but the tea gives present stimulus and a little strength, and 
before it subsides, nutriment begins to draw from the sugar, 
and cream, and bread, thus allowing the body gradually, 
and by safe degrees, to regain its usual vigor. Then, in a 
couple of hours, a full meal may be taken, provided that it 
does not bring it later than two hours before sundown; if later, 
then take nothing for that day in addition to the cracker 
and tea, and the next day you will feel a freshness and vigor 
not recently known. 

No lady will require to be advised a second time, who 
will conform to the above rules; while it is a fact of no 
unusual observation among intelligent physicians, that eat- 
ing heartily and under bodily exhaustion, is not unfre- 



THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 11 

quently toe cause of alarming and painful illness, and 
sometimes sudden death. These thiDgs being so, let every 
family make it a point to assemble around the table with 
kindly feelings — with a cheerful humor, and a courteous 
spirit; and let that member of it be sent from it in disgrace 
who presumes to mar the reunion by sullen silence, or im- 
patient look, or angry tone, or complaining tongue. Eat 
ever in thankful gladness, or away with you to the kitchen, 
you "ill-tempered thing, that you are." There was good 
philosophy in the old-time custom of having a buffoon or 
music at the dinner-table. 

HOW TO CHOOSE MEAT. 

Ox-beef, when it is young, will have a fine open grain, 
and a good red color; the fat should be white, for when it 
is of a deep yellow color, the meat is seldom very good. 
The grain of cow-beef is closer, the fat whiter, and the 
lean scarcely so red as that of ox-beef. When you see 
beef, of which the fat is hard and skinny, and the lean of a 
deep red, you may be sure that it is of an inferior kind; and 
when the meat is old, you may know it by a line of horny 
texture running through the meat of the ribs. 

Mutton must be chosen by the firmness and fineness of 
the grain, its good color, and firm white fat. It is not con- 
sidered prime until the sheep is about five years old. 

Lamb will not keep long after it is killed. It can be dis- 
covered by the neck end in the fore-quarter if it has been 
killed too long, the veins in the neck being bluish when the 
meat is fresh, but green when it is stale. In the hind 
quarter, the same discovery may be made by examining the 
kidney and the knuckle, for the former has a slight smell, 
and the knuckle is not firm when the meat has been killed 
too long. 

Pobk should have a thin rind; and when it is fresh, the 



12 THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK, 

meat is smooth and cool; but, when it looks flabby, and is 
clammy to the touch, it is not good; and pork, above all 
meat, is disagreeable when it is stale. If you perceive many 
enlarged glands, or, as they are usually termed, kernels, in 
the fat of the pork, you may conclude that the pork cannot 
be wholesome. 

Veal is generally preferred of a delicate whiteness, but 
it is more juicy and well -flavored when of a deeper color. 
Butchers bleed calves profusely in order to produce this 
white meat; but this practice must certainly deprive the 
meat of some of its nourishment and flavor. When you 
choose veal, endeavor to look at the loin, which affords the 
best means of judging of the veal generally, for if the kid- 
ney, which may be found on the under side of one end of 
the loin, be deeply enveloped in white and firm-looking fat, 
the meat will certainly be good; and the same appearance 
will enable you to judge if it has been recently killed. The 
kidney is the part which changes the first; and then the 
suet around it becomes soft, and the meat flabby and 
spotted. 

Bacon, like pork, should have a thin rind; the fat should 
be firm, and inclined to a reddish color; and the lean 
should firmly adhere to the bone, and have no yellow streak 
in it. When you are purchasing a ham, have a knife stuck 
into it to the bone, which, if the ham be well cured, may be 
drawn out again without having any oi the meat adhering 
to it, and without your perceiving any disagreeable smelL 
A. short ham is reckoned the best. 



THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 13 



HOW TO CHOOSE FISH. 

Turbot, which is in season the greater part of the yea I 
should have the underside of a yellowish white, for when it 
is very transparent, blue, or thin, it is not good; the whole 
fish should be thick and firm. 

Salmon should have a fine red flesh and gills; the scales 
should be bright, and the whole fish firm. Many persons 
think that salmon is improved by keeping a day or two. 

Cod should be judged by the redness of the gills, the 
whiteness, stiffness, and firmness of the flesh, and the clear 
freshness of the eyes; these are the infallible proofs of its 
being good. The whole fish should be thick and firm. 

White-Fish may be had good almost throughout the 
year; but the time in which they are in their prime is 
early in the year. The white-fish is light and delicate, and 
in choosing it you must examine whether the fins and flesh 
be firm. 

Fresh-TV ater Fish may be chosen by similar observations 
respecting the firmness of the flesh, and the clear appear- 
ance of the eyes, as salt-water fish. 

In a Lobster lately caught, you may put the claws in 
motion by pressing the eyes; but when it has been long 
caught, the muscular action is not excited. The freshness 
of boiled lobsters may be determined by the elasticity of 
the tail, which is flaccid when they have lost any of their 
wholesomeness. Their goodness, independent of freshness, 
is determined by their weight. 

Crabs, too, must be judged of by their weight, for when 
they prove light, the flesh'is generally found to be wasted 
and watery. If in perfection, the joints of the legs will be 
stiff, and the body will have an agreeable smell. The eyes, 
by a dull appearance, betray that the crab has been long 
caught 



14 TBE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOR. 

HOW TO CHOOSE POULTRY. 

In the choice of poultry the age of the bird is the chief 
point to which you should attend. 

A young Turkey has a smooth black leg; in an old one 
the legs are rough and reddish. If the bird be fresh killed 
the eyes will be full and fresh, and the feet moist. 

Fowls, when they are young, the combs and the legs will 
be smooth, and rough when they are old. 

In Geese, when they are young, the bills and the feet are 
yellow and have a few hairs upon them, but they are red if 
the bird be old. The feet of a goose are pliable when the 
bird is fresh killed, and dry and stiff when it has been killed 
some time. Geese are called green till they are two or 
three months old. 

Ducks should be chosen by their feet, which should be 
supple; and they should also have a plump and hard breast. 
The feet of a tame duck are yellowish, those of a wild cue, 
reddish. 

Pigeons should always be eaten while they are fresh; 
when they look flabby and discolored'about the under part, 
they have been kept too- long. The feet, like thcBe oi 
poultry, show the age of the bird ; when they are supple, it 
is young; when stiff, it is old. Tame pigeon are larger 
than wild ones. 

HOW TO CHOOSE GAME. 

Venison, when young, will have the fat clear and bright, 
and this ought also to be of a considerable thickness. 
When you do not wish to have it in a very high state, a 
knife plunged into either haunch or the shoulder, and 
drawn out, will by the smell enable you to judge if the veni- 
son is sufficiently fresh. 

Yv T ith regard to. venison, which, as it is not an every-day 



THE E VERYDA Y COOK- BOOK. 15 

article of diet, it may bo convenient to keep for some time 
after it has begun to get high or tainted, it is useful to 
know that the animal putrefaction is checked by fresh 
burnt charcoal; by means of which, therefore, the venison 
may be prevented from getting worse, although it cannot be 
restored to its original freshness. The meat should be placed 
in a hollow dish, and the charcoal powder strewed over it 
until it covers tbe joint to the thickness of half an inch. 

Hares and Rabbits, when the ears are dry and tough, the 
haunch thick, and the claws blunt and rugged, they are old. 
Smooth and sharp claws, ears that readily tear, and a nar- 
row cleft in the lip, are the marks of a young hare. Hares 
may be kept for some time after they have been killed; in- 
deed, many people think they are not fit for the table until 
the inside begins to turn a little. Care, however, should be 
taken to prevent the inside from becoming musty, which 
would spoil the flavor of the stuffing. 

Partridges have yellow legs and a dark-colored bill when 
young. They are not in season till after the first of 
September. 

HOW TO CHOOSE EGGS. 

In putting the hand round the egg, and presenting to the 
light, the end which is not covered, it should be transparent. 
If you can detect some tiny spots, it is not newly laid, but 
may be very good for all ordinary purposes except boiling 
6oft. If you see a large spot near the shell, it is bad, and 
should not be used on any account. The white of a newly- 
laid egg boiled soft is like milk; that of an egg a day old, 
is like rice boiled in milk ; and that of an old egg, compact, 
tough, and difficult to digest. A cook ought not to give 
eggs two or three days old to people who really -care for 
fresh eggs, under the delusion that they will not find any 
difference; for an amateur will find it out in a moment, not 
only by the appearance, but also by the taste. 



16 THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 



CARVING. 

The seat for the carver should be somewhat elevated 
above the other chairs; it is extremely ungraceful to carve 
standings and it is rarely done by any person accustomed to 
the business. Carving depends more on skill than on 
strength. We have seen very small women carve admirably 
sitting down; and very tall men who knew not how to cut a 
piece of beefsteak without rising on their feet to do it. 

The carving-knife should be very sharp, and not heavy; 
and it should be held firmly in the hand; also the dish 
should not be too far from the carver. It is customary to 
help the fish with a fish-trowel, and not with a knife. The 
middle part of a fish is generally considered the best. In 
helping it, avoid breaking the flakes, as that will give it a 
mangled appearance. 

In carving ribs or sirloin of beef begin by cutting thin 
slices off the side next to you. Afterwards you may cut 
from the tenderloin, or cross-part near the lower end. Do 
not send anyone the outside piece, unless you know they 
particularly wish it. 

In helping beefsteak put none of the bone on the plate. 
In cutting a round of corned beef begin at the top; but lay 
aside the first cut or outside piece, and send it to no one, as 
it is always dry and hard. In a round of beefa-la mode the 
outside is frequently preferred. 

A leg of mutton begin across the middle, cutting the 
slices quite down to the bone. The same with a leg of pork 
or a ham. The latter should be cut in very thin slices, as 
its flavor is spoiled when cut thick. 

To taste well, tongue should be cut crossways in round 
slices. Cutting it lengthwise (though the practice at many 
tables) injures the flavor. The middle part of the tongue 



THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 17 

is the best. Do not help anyone to a piece of the root; 
that, being by no means a favored part, is generally left in 
the dish. 

In earring a fore-quarter of lamb first separate the 
shoulder part from the breast and ribs by passing the knife 
under, and then divide the ribs. If the lamb is large, have 
another dish brought to put the shoulder in. 

For a loin of veal begin near the smallest end, and sepa- 
rate the ribs; helping a part of the kidney (as far as it will 
go) with each piece. Carve a loin of pork or mutton in the 
same manner. 

In carving a fillet of veal begin at the top. Many per- 
sons prefer the first cut or outside piece. Help a portion of 
the stuffing with each slice. 

In a breast of veal there are two parts very different in 
quality, the ribs and the brisket. You will easily perceive 
the division; enter your knife at it and cut through, which 
will separate the two parts. Ask the person you are going 
to help whether they prefer a rib or a piece of the brisket. 

For a haunch of vension first make a deep incision by 
passing your knife all along the side, cutting quite down to 
the bone. This is to let out the gravy. Then turn the 
brx a 1 end of the haunch toward you, and cut it as deep 
as you can in thin slices, allowing some of the fat to each 
person. 

For a saddle of venison, or of mutton, cut from the tail 
to the other end on each side of the backbone, making very 
thin slices, and sending some fat with each. Venison and 
roast mutton chill very soon. Currant jelley is an indis- 
pensable appendage to venison, and to roast mutton, and 
to ducks. 

A young pig is most generally divided before it comes to 
table, in which case it is not customary to send in the head, 
as to many persons it is a revolting spectacle after it is cut 
oil When served up whole, first separate the head from 



18 THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 

the shoulders, then cut off the limbs, and then divide the 
ribs. Help some of the stuffing with each piece. 

To carve a fowl, begin by sticking your fork in the pin- 
ion, and draw it towards the leg; and then passing your 
knife underneath take off the wing at the joint. Next, slip 
your knife between the leg and the body, to cut through the 
joint; and with the fork turn the leg back, and the joint 
will give way. Then take off the other wing and leg. If 
"the fowl has been trussed (as it ought to be) with the liver 
and gizzard, help the liver with one wing, and the gizzard 
with the other. The liver-wing is considered the best. 
After the limbs are taken off enter your knife into the top 
of the breast, and cut under the merry-thought, so as to 
loosen it, lifting it with your fork. Afterwards cut slices 
from both sides of the breast. Next take off the collar- 
bones, which lie on each side of the merry-thought, and 
then separate the side-bones from the back. The breast 
and wing3 are considered the most delicate part of the fowl; 
the back, as the least desirable, is generally left in the dish. 
Some persons, in carving a fowl, find it more convenient to 
take it on a plate, and as they separate it return each part 
to the dish, but this is not the usual way. 

A turkey is carved in the same manner a3 a fowl; except 
that the legs and wings, being larger, are separated at the 
lower joint. The lower part of the leg (or drum-stick, as it 
is called), being hard, tough, and stringy, is never helped 
to any one, but allowed to remain in the dish. First cut off 
the wing, leg, and breast from one side; then turn the 
turkey over, and cut them off from the other. 

To carve a goose, separate the leg from the body, by put- 
ting the fork into the small end of the limb; pressing it 
close to the body, and then passing the knife under, and 
turning the leg back, as you cut through the joint. To take 
off the wing, put your fork into the small end of the pinion, 
and press it closely to the body; then slip the knife under, 



THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 19 

and separate the joint. Next cut under the merry-thought, 
and take it off; and then cut slices from the breast. Then 
turn the goose, and dismember the other side. Take oft 
the two upper side-bones that are next to the wings, and 
then the two lower side-bones. The breast and legs of a 
goose afford the finest pieces. If a goose is old there is no 
fowl so tough; and, if difficult to carve, it will be still more 
difficult to eat 

Partridges, pheasants, grouse, etc., are carved in the same 
manner as fowls. Quails, woodcocks, and snipes are merely 
split down the back; so also are pigeons, giving a half to 
each person. 

In helping any one to gravy, or to melted butter, do not 
pour it over their meat, fowl, or fish, but put it to one side 
on a vacant part of the plate, that they may use just as 
much of it as they like. In filling a plate never heap one 
thing on another. 

In helping vegetables, do not plunge the spoon down to 
the bottom of the dish, in case they should not have been 
perfectly well drained, and the water should have settled 
there. 

By observing carefully how it is done you may acquire a 
knowledge of the joints, and of the process of carving, 
which a little daily practice will soon convert into dexterity. 
If a young lady is ignorant of this useful art, it will be well 
for her to take lessons of her father, or her brother, and a 
married lady can easily learn from her husband. Domestics 
who wait at table may soon, from looking on daily, become 
so expert that, when necessary, they can take a dish to the 
side-table and carve it perfectly well. 

At a dinner-party, if the hostess is quite young, she is 
frequently glad to be relieved of the trouble of carving by 
the gentleman who sits nearest to her; but if she is familiar 
with the business she usually prefers doing it herselt 



X THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK, 



SOUPS. 

GENERAL REMARKS. 

Be careful to proportion the quantity of water to that of 
the meat. Somewhat less than a quart of water to a pound 
of meat is a good rule for common soups. Rich soups, in- 
tended for company, may have a still smaller allowance of 
water. 

Soup should always be made entirely of fresh meat that 
has not been previously cooked. An exception to this rule 
may sometimes be made in favor of the remains of a piece 
of roast beef that has been very much under-done in roast- 
ing. This may be added to a good piece of raw meat. 
Cold ham, also, may be occasionally put into white soups. 

Soup, however, that has been originally made of raw 
meat entirely is frequently better the second day than the 
first, provided it is reboiled only for a very short time, and 
that no additional water is added to it. 

Unless it has been allowed to boil too hard, so as to ex- 
haust the water, the soup-put will not require replenishing. 
When it is found absolutely necessary to do so, the addi- 
tional water must be boiling-hot when poured in; if luke- 
warm or cold, it will entirely spoil the soup. 

Every particle of fat should be carefully skimmed from 
the surface. Greasy soup is disgusting and unwholesome. 
The lean of meat is much better for soup than the fat. 

Long and slow boiling is necessary to extract the strength 
from the meat. If boiled fast over a large fire, the meat 
becomes hard and tough, and will not give out its juices. 

Potatoes, if boiled in the soup, are thought by some to 
render it unwholesome, from the opinion that the water in 
ivhich potatoes have been cooked is almost a poison. As pota- 
toes are a part of every dinner, it is very easy to take a few out 




Vegetable Marrow /^W*~*%^ 




Brussels Sprouts 



Trench. Beans 



VEGETABLES 



THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. fl 

of the pot in which they have been boiled by themselves, 
and to cut them up and add them to the soup just before it 
goes to table. Remove all shreds of meat and bone. 

The cook should season the soup but very slightly with 
salt and pepper. If she puts in too much it may spoil it 
for the taste of most of those who are to eat it; but li too 
little it is easy to add more to your own plate. 



13 THE hVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 



SOUPS. 



STOCK. 



Four pormds of shin of beef, or four pounds of knuckle 
of veal, or two pounds of each; any bones, trimmings of 
poultry, or fresh meat, quarter pound of lean bacon or ham, 
two ounces of butter, two large onions, each stuck with 
cloves; one turnip, three carrots, one head of celery, three 
lumps of sugar, two ounces of salt, half a teaspoonful of 
whole pepper, one large blade of mace, one bunch of savory 
herbs, four quarts and half pint of cold w r ater. 

Cut up the meat and bacon, or ham, into pieces of about 
three inches square; rub the batter on the bottom of the 
stewpan ; put in half a pint of water, the meat, and all the 
other ingredients. Cover the stewpan, and place it on a 
sharp fire, occasionally stirring its contents. When the 
bottom of the pan becomes covered with a pale, jelly-like 
substance, add the four quarts of cold water, and simmer 
very gently for five hours. As we have said before, do not 
let it boil quickly. Kemove every particle of scum while it 
is doing, and strain it through a fine hair sieve. 

This stock is the basis of many of the soups afterwards 
mentioned, and will be found quite strong enough for ordi- 
nary purposes. 

Time: five and one-half hours. Average cost, twenty- 
five cents per quart. 

WHITE STOCK SOUP. 

Six pounds knuckle of veal, half pound lean bacon, two 
tablespoonfuls of butter rubbed in one of fiour, two 



THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 23 

onions, two carrots, two turnips, three cloves stuck in an 
onion, one blade of mace, bunch of herbs, six quarts of 
Water, pepper and salt, one cup of boiling milk. 

Cut up the meat and crack the bones. Slice carrots, 
turnips, and one onion, leaving that with the cloves whole. 
Put on with mace, and all the herbs except the parsley, in 
two quarts of cold water. Bring to a Blow boil; take off 
the scum, as it rises, and at the end of an hour's stewing, 
add the rest of the cold water — one gallon. Cover and 
cook steadily, always gently, four hours. Strain off the 
liquor, of which there should be about five quarts; rub the 
vegetables through the colander, and pick out bones and 
meat. Season these highly and put, as is your Saturday 
custom, into a wide-mouth jar, or a large bowl. Add to 
them three quarts of stock, well salted, and, when cold, 
keep on ice. Cool to-day's stock; remove the fat, season, 
put in chopped parsley, and put over the fire. Heat in a 
saucepan a cup of milk, stir in the floured butter; cook 
three minutes. When the soup has simmered ten minutes 
after the last boil, and been carefully skimmed, pour into 
the tureen, and stir in the hot, thickened milk. 

SHIN OF BEEF SOUP. 

Get a shin-bone of beef weighing four or five pounds; let 
the butcher saw it in pieces about two inches long, that the 
marrow may become the better incorporated with the soup, 
and so give it greater richness. ' 

Wash the meat in cold water; mix together of salt and 
pepper each a tablespoonful, rub this well into the meat, 
then put into a soup-pot; put to it as many quarts of water 
as there are pounds of meat, and set it over a moderate fire, 
until it comes to a boil, then take off whatever scum may 
have risen, after which cover it close, and set it where it 
will boil very gently for two hours longer, then skim it 
again, and add to it the proper vegetables, which are these— 



24 THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 

one large currot grated, one large turnip cut in slices (tha 
yellow or rata baga is best),one leek cut in slices, one bunch 
of parsley cut small, sis small potatoes peeled and cut in 
half, and a teacupful of pearl barley well washed, then cover 
it and let it boil gently for one hoar, at which time add an- 
other tablesponful of tali and a thickening made of a table- 
spoonful of wheat Hour and a gill of water, stir it in by the 
spoonful; cover it for fifteen minutes and it is done. 

Three hours and a half is required to make this soup; it 
is the best for cold weather. Should any remain over the 
first day, it may be heated with the addition of a little boil- 
iug water, and served again. 

Take the meat from the soup, and if to be served with it, 
take out the bones, and lay it closely and neatly on a dish, 
and garnish with sprigs of parsley; serve made mustard and 
catsup with it. It is very nice pressed and eaten with must- 
ard and vinegar or catsup. 

MUTTON SOUP WITH TAPIOCA. 

Three pounds perfectly lean mutton. The scrag makes 
good soup and costs little. Two or three pounds of bones, 
well pounded, one onion, two turnips, two carrots, two 
stalks of celery, a few sprigs of parsley; if you have any to- 
matoes left from yesterday, add them, four tablespoonfuls 
of pearl or granulated tapioca (not heaping spoonfuls), four 
quarts of water. 

Put on the meat, cut in small pieces, with the bones,in two 
quarts of cold water. Heat very slowly, and when it boils, 
pour in two quarts of hot water from the kettle. Chop the 
vegetables, cover with cold water. So soon as they begin 
to simmer, throw off the first water, replenishing with hot, 
and stew until they are boiled to pieces. The meat should 
cook steadily, never fast, five hours, keeping the pot-lid on. 
Strain into a great bowl; let it cool to throw the fat to the 
surface j gkim and return to the fire. Seaso© with pepper 



THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 25 

and salt, boil up, take off the scum; add the vegetables with 
their liquor. Heat together ten minutes, strain again, and 
bring to a slow boil before the tapioca goes in. This should 
have been soaked for one hour in cold water, then cooked 
in the same within another vessel of boiling water until each 
grain is clear. It is necessary to stir up often from the bot- 
tom while cooking. Stir gradually into the soup until the 
tapioca is dissolved. 

Send around grated cheese with this soup. 

VEAL SOUP. 

To about three pounds of a joint of veal, which must ba 
well broken up, put four quarts of water and set it over to 
boil. Prepare one-fourth pound of macaroni by boiling it 
by itself, with sufficient water to cover it; add a little but- 
ter to the macaroni when it is tender, strain the soup and 
season to taste with salt and pepper, then add the macaro- 
ni in the water in which it is boiled. The addition of a pint 
of rich milk or cream and celery flavor is relished by many. 

OX-TAIL SOUP. 

Take two ox tails and two whole onions, two carrots, a 
small turnip, two tablespoonfuls of flour, and a little white 
pepper, add a gallon of water, let all boil for two hours; 
then take out the tails and cut the meat into small pieces, 
return the bones to the pot, for a short time, boil for another 
hour, then strain the soup, and rinse two spoonfuls of ar- 
rowroot to add to it with the meat cut from the bones, and 
let all boil for a quarter of an hour. 

VEGETABLE SOUP. * 

Two pounds of coarse, lean beef, cut into strips, fwo 
pounds of knuckle of veal chopped to pieces, two pounds of 
mutton bones, and the bones left from your cold veal crack- 



28 THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 

ed to splinters, pound of lean ham, four large carrots, two 
turnips, two onions, bunch of herbs, three tablespoonfuls of 
butter, and two of flour, one tablespoonf ul of sugar, salt and 
pepper, seven quarts of water. 

Put on meat, bones, herbs and water, and cook slowly five 
hours. Strain the soup, of which there should be five quarts. 
Season meat and bones,- and put into the stock-pot with 
three quarts of liquor. Save this for days to come. While 
the soup for to-day is cooling that you may take off the fat, 
put the butter into a frying pan with sliced carrots, turnips 
and onions, and fry to a light browu. Now, add a pint of 
the skimmed stock, and stew the vegetables tender, stir in 
the flour wet with water, and put all, with your coc4ed 
stock, over the fire in the soup-kettle. Season with sugar, 
Cayenne and salt, boil five minutes, rub through a colander, 
then a soup-sieve, heat almost to boiling, and serve. 

MACARONI SOUP. 

To a rich beef or other soup, in which there is no season- 
ing other than pepper or salt, take half a pouud of small 
pipe macaroni, boil it in clear water until it is tender, then 
drain it and cut it in pieces of an inch in length, boil it for 
fifteen minutes in the soup and serve. 

VERMICELLI SOUP. 

Swell quart: r of a pound of vermicelli in a quart of warm 
water, then add it to a good beef, veal, lamb or chicken 
soup or broth with quarter of a pound of sweet butter; let 
the soup boil for fifteen minutes after it is added. 

CHICKEN CREAM SOUP. 

Boil an old fowl, with an onion, in four quarts of cold wa- 
ter, until there remain but two quarts. Take it out and let 
it get cold. Cut off the whole of the breast, and chop very 



TUB EVERYDAY L'OOK-EOOK 27 

fine. Mix with the pounded yolks of two hard-boiled eggs, 
and rub through a colander. Cool, skim, and strain the 
soup into a soup-pot. Season, add the chicken-aad-egg 
mixture, simmer ten minutes, and pour into the tureen. 
Then add a small cup of boiling milk. 

MOCK-TURTLE SOUP. 

Clean and wash a calf's head, split it in two, save the 
brains, boil the head until tender in plenty of water; put a 
slice of fat ham, a bunch of parsley cut small, a sprig of 
thyme, two leeks cut small, six cloves, a teaspoonful of pep- 
per, and three ounces of butter, into a stew-pan, and fry 
them a nice brown; then add the water in which the head 
was boiled, cut the meat from the head in neat square 
pieces, and put them to the soup; add a pint of Madeira 
and one lemon sliced thin, and Cayenne pepper and salt to 
taste; let it simmer gently for two hours, then skim it clear 
and serve. 

Make a forcemeat of the brains as follows: put them in a 
stew-pan, pour hot water over, and set it over the fire for a 
few minutes, then take them up, chop them small, with a 
sprig of parsley, a saltspoonful of salt and pepper each, a 
tablespoonful of wheat flour, the same of butter, and one 
well-beaten egg; make it in small balls, and drop them in 
the soup fifteen minutes before it is taken from the fire ; in 
making the balls, a little more flour may be necessary. 
Egg-balls may also be added. 

HARD PEA SOUP. 

Many persons keep the bones of their roast in order to 
convert them into stock for pea soup, which is, to my taste, 
one of the most relishable of all soups, and a famous dish 
for cold weather, with this advantage in its favor, that it 
may be made from almost anything. Capital stock for pea 



28 THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 

soup can be made from a kuckle of ham or from a piece oi 
pickled-pork. Supposing that some such stock is at hand 
to the extent of about two quarts, procure, say, two pounds 
of split peas, wash them well, and then soak them foi a night 
in water to which a very little piece of soda has been added 
(the floating peas should be all thrown away), strain out 
the peas and place them in the stock, adding a head of 
celery, a cut-down carrot and a large onion or two, and 
season with a pinch of curry powder, or half an eggspoon- 
ful of Cayenne pepper. Boil with a lid on the pot till all is 
soft, skimming off the scum occasionally, and then carefully 
strain into a well- warmed tureen, beating the pulp through 
the strainer with a spoon. Serve as hot as possible, placing 
a breakfastcupful of crumbled toast (bread) into the tureen 
before the soup is dished. Much of the success in prepar- 
ing this soup lies in the "straining," which ought to be 
carefully attended to. A wire sieve is best; but an active 
housewife must never stick. If she has not a sieve made 
for the purpose, she can fold a piece of net two or three 
times, and use that. When a knuckle of ham has been 
used to make the stock it should form a part of the dinner, 
with potatoes, or it may be used as a breakfast or supper 
relish. 

GREEN PEA SOUP. 

Wash a small quarter of lamb in cold water, and put it in- 
to a soup-pot with six quarts of cold water; add to it two 
tablespoon fuls of salt, and set it over a moderate fire — let 
it boil gently for two hours, then skim it clear, add a quart 
of shelled peas, and a teaspoonful of pepper; cover it, and 
let it boil for half an hour, then having scraped the skins 
from a quart of small young potatoes, add them to the 
soup; cover the pot, and let it boil for half an hour longer; 
work quarter of a pound of butter, and a dessert spoonful 



THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 29 

of flour together, and add them to the soup ten or twelve 
minutes before taking it off the fire. 

Serve the meat on a dish with parsley sauce over, and the 
soup in a tureen. 

POTATO SOUP. 

Potato soup is suitable for a cold day. Make it in the 
following manner: Get as many beef or ham bones as you 
can, and smash them into fragments. Add a little bit of 
lean ham to give flavor. Boil the bone and ham for two houra 
and a half at least. The bone of a roast beef is excellent. 
Strain off the liquor carefully, empty the bones and debris 
of the ham, restore the liquor to the pot, and place again 
on the fire. Having selected, washed, and pared some nice 
potatoes, cut them into small pieces, and boil them in the 
stock till they melt away. An onion or two may also be 
boiled among the bones to help the flavor. I do not like 
thick potato soup, and I usually strain it through a Jiair 
sieve, after doing so placing it again on the fire, seasoning 
it with pepper and salt to taste. A stick of celery boiled 
with the bones is an improvement. Make only the quantity 
required for the day, as potato soup is best when it is newly 
made. 

TOMATO SOUP. 

Tomato soup is a much relished American dish, and is 
prepared as follows: Steam, or rather stew slowly, a mess 
of turnips, carrots, and onions, also a stalk of celery, with 
half a pound of lean ham and a little bit of fresh butter over 
a slow fire for an hour or so. Then add two quarts of di- 
luted stock or of other liquor in which meat has been boiled, 
as also eight or ten ripe tomatoes. Stew the whole for an 
hour and a half, then pass through the sieve into the pan 
again; add a little popper and salt, boil for ten minutes and 
serve hot 



30 TEE EVERYD 1Y COOK-BOOK, 



GAME SOUP. 

Two grouse or partridges, or if you have neither, use a 
pair of rabits; half a pound of lean ham; two medium-sized 
onions; one pound of lean beef; fried bread; butter for fry- 
ing; pepper, salt, and two stalks of white celery cut into 
inch lengths; three quarts of water. 

Joint your game neatly; cut the ham and onions into 
small pieces, and fry all in butter to a light brown. Put into 
a soup-pot with the beef, cut into strips, and a little pepper. 
Pour on the water; heat slowly, and stew gently two hours. 
Take out the pieces of bird, and cover in a bowl; cook the 
soup an hour longer; strain; cool; drop in the celery, and 
simmer ten minutes. Pour upon fried bread in the tureen. 

CELERY SOUP. 

Celery soup may be made with white stock. Cut down 
the white of half a dozen heads of celery into little pieces 
and boil it in four pints of white stock, with a quar- 
er of a pound of lean ham and two ounces of butter. Sim- 
mer gently for a full hour, then drain through a sieve, re- 
turn the liquor to pan and stir in a few spoonfuls of cream 
with great care. Serve with toasted bread, and, if liked, 
thicken with a little flour. Season to taste. 

OYSTER SOUP. 

Two quarts ef oysters, one quart of milk, two tablespoon- 
fuis of butter, one teacupful hot water; pepper, salt. 

Strain all the liquor from the oysters; add the water and 
heat. When near the boil, add the seasoning, then the 
oysters. Cook about five minutes from the time they begin 
to simmer, until they "ruffle." Stir in the butter, cook one 
minute and pour into the tureen. Stir in the boiling milk, 
and send to table. 



THE EVEKYDAY COOK-BOOK. 81 



LOBSTER SOUP. 

Procure a large hen fish, boiled, and with all its coral, if 
possible. Cut away from it all the meat in neat little pieces; 
beat up the fins and minor claws in a mortar, then stew the 
results in a stew-pan, slowly, along with a little white stock; 
season this with a bunch of sweet herbs; a small onion, a 
little bit of celery, and a carrot may be placed in the stock 
as also the toasted crust of a French roll. Season to taste 
with salt and a little Cayenne. Simmer the whole for about 
an hour; then strain and return the liquor to the saucepan; 
place in it the pieces of lobster, and having beat up the 
coral in a little flour and gravy, stir it in. Let the soup re- 
main on the fire for a few minutes without boiling and serve 
hot. A small strip of the rind of a lemon may be boiled in 
the stock, and a little nutmeg may be added to the season- 
ing. This is a troublesome soup to prepare, but there are 
many who like it when it is well made. 

EGG BALLS FOR SOUP. 

Boil four eggs; put into cold water; mash yolks with yolk 
of one raw egg, and one teaspoonful of flour, pepper, salt 
and parsley; make into balls and boil two minutes. 

NOODLES FOR SOUP. 

Rub into two eggs as much sifted flour as they will ab- 
sorb; then roll out until thin as a wafer; dust over a little 
flour, and then roll over and over into a roll, cut off thin 
slices from the edge of the roll, and shake out into long 
strips; put them into the soup lightly and boil for ten min- 
utes; salt should be added while mixing with the flour — 
about a saltspoonful. 



82 THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 



IRISH STEW.— STOVED POTATOES. 

These form excellent and nutritious dishes. The former 
dish can be made from a portion of the back ribs or neck of 
mutton, the fleshy part of which must be cut into cutlets. 
Flatten these pieces of meat with a roller, and dip them in a 
composition of pepper, salt and flour. Peel potatoes and 
slice them to tli9 extent of two pounds of potatoes for every 
pound of meat. An onion or two sliced into small bits will 
be required. Before building the materials into a goblet, 
melt a little suet or dripping in it, then commence by lay- 
ing in the pot a layer of potatoes, which dust well with pep- 
per and salt, then a layer of meat sprinkled with the chop- 
ped onions, and so on till the goblet is pretty full. Fill in 
about a breakfast-cupful of gravy, if there be any in the 
house; if not, water will do. Finish off with a treble row 
of potatoes on the top. Let the mess stew slowly for about 
three hours, taking great care to keep the lid so tight that 
none of the virtue can escape — letting away the steam is 
just letting away the flavor. Shake the pot occasionally 
with some force, to prevent burning. Some cooks in pre- 
paring this dish, boil the potatoes for some time, and then 
pour and dry them well; others add a portion of kidney to 
the stew; while extravagent people throw in a few oysters, a 
slice or two of lean ham, or a ham shank. Irish stew should 
be served as hot as possible. It is a savory and inexpen- 
sive dish for cold weather. — Stoved potatoes are prepared 
much in the same way. Cut down what of the Sunday's 
roast is left, and proceed with it just as you would with the 
neck of mutton. Some cooks would stew the bones of the 
roast, in order to make a gravy in which to stove the meat 
and potatoes, but the bones will make excellent potato soup. 
Irish stew is an excellent dish for skaters and curlers. It 
is sometimes known as u liot pot." 



THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 83 

TO GET UP A SOUP IN HASTE. 

Chop some cold cooked meat fine, and put a pint into a 
stew-pan with some gravy, season with pepper and salt and a 
little butter if the gravy is not rich,add a little flour moisten- 
ed with cold water, and three pints boiling water, boil moder- 
ately half an hour. Strain over some rice or nicely toasted 
bread, and serve. Uncooked meat may be used by using 
one quart of cold water to a pound of chopped meat, and 
letting it stand half before boiling. Celery root may be 
grated in as seasoning, or a bunch of parsley thrown in. 

TO COLOR SOUPS. 

A fine amber color is obtained by adding finely-grated 
carrot to the clear stock when it is quite free from scum. 

Red is obtained by using red skinned tomatoes from which 
the skin and seeds have been strained out. 

Only white vegetables should be used in white soups, as 
chicken. 

Spinach leaves, pounded in a mortar, and the juice ex- 
pressed, and added to the soups, will give a green color. 

Black beans make an excellent brown soup. The same 
color can be gotten by adding burnt sugar or browned flour 
to slear stock. 



FISH 



Fish are good, when the gills are red, eyes are full, and 
the body of the fish is firm and stiff. After washing them 
well, they should be allowed to remain for a short time in 
salt water sufficient to cover them; before cooking wipe 
them dry, dredge lightly with flour, and season with salt and 



U THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 

pepper. Salmon trout and other small fish are usually fried 
or broiled; all large fish should be put in a cloth, tied close- 
fa twine, and placed in cold water, when they may be 
put over the fire to boil. When fish are baked, prepare the 
fish the same as for boiling, and put in the oven on a wire 
gridiron, over a dripping pan. 

BOILED SALMON. 

The middle slice of salmon is the best. Sew np neatly in 
a mosquito-net bag, and boil a quarter of an hour to the 
pound in hot, salted water. When done, unwrap with care, 
and lay upon a hot dish, taking care not to break it. Have 
ready a large cupful of drawn butter, very rich, in which has 
been stirred a tablespoon!' ul of minced parsley and the juice 
of a lemon. Pour half upon the salmon, and serve the rest 
in a boat. Garnish with parsley and sliced eggs. 

Here is a recipe for a nice pickle for cold salmon made out 
of the liquor in which the fish has been boiled, of which take 
as much as you wish, say three break fast-cupfuls, to which 
add vinegar to taste (perhaps a teacupful will be enough), a 
good pinch of pepper, a dessert-spoonful of salt. Boil for a 
few minutes with a sprig or two of parsley and a little 
thyme. After it has become quite cold, pour it over the 
fish. 

BROILED SALMON. 

Cut some slices about an inch thick, and broil them over 
a gentle bright fire of coals, for ten or twelve minutes. 
When both sides are done, take them on to a hot dish; 
butter each slice well with sweet butter; strew over eac.b 
a very little salt and pepper to taste, and serve. 

BAKED SALMON. 

Clean the fish, rinse it, aud wipe it dry; rub it well out- 
Bide and in, with a mixture of pepper and salt, and fill it 



THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 35 

with a stuffing made with slices of bread, buttered freely 
and moistened with hot milk or water (add sage or thyme 
to the seasoning if liked) ; tie a thread around the fish so 
as to keep the stuffing in (take off the thread before serv- 
ing); lay muffin-rings, or a trivet in a dripping-pan, lay bits 
of butter over the fish, dredge flour over, and put it on the 
rings; put a pint of hot water in the pan, to baste with; bake 
one hour if a large fish, in a quick oven; baste frequently. 
When the fish is taken up, having cut a lemon in very 
thin slices, put them in the pan, and let them fry a little; 
then dredge in a teasponful of wheat flour; add a small bit 
of butter; stir it about, and let it brown without burning 
for a little while then aud half a teacupful or more of boil- 
ing water stir it smooth, take the slices of lemon into the 
gravy boat, and strain the gravy over. Serve with boiled 
potatoes. The lemon may be omitted if preferred, although 
generally it will be liked. 

SALMON-TROUT. 

Dressed the same as salmon. 

SPICED SALMON (PICKLED). 

Boil a salmon, and after wiping it dry, set it to cool; 
take of the water in which it was boiled, and good vinegar 
each equal parts, enough to cover it; add to it one dozen 
cloves, as many small blades of mace, or sliced nutmeg, one 
teaspoonful of whole pepper, and ihe same of alspice; make 
it boiliug hot, skim it clear, add a small bit of butter (the 
size of a small egg), and pour it over the fish; set it in a cool 
place. "When cold, it is fit for use, and will keep for a long 
time, covered close, in a cool place. Serve instead of pick- 
led oysters for supper. 

A fresh cod is very nice, done in the same manner, as is 
also a striped sea bass. 



86 THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 



SALMON AND CAPER SAUCE, 

Two slices of salmon, one quarter pound butter, one hall 
teaspoonful of chopped parsley, one shalot; salt, pepper and 
grated nutmeg to taste. 

Mode: Lay the salmon in a baking-dish, place pieces of 
butter over it, and add the other ingredients, rubbing a lit- 
tle of the seasoning into the fish; baste it frequently; when 
done, take it out and drain for a minute or two; lay it in a 
dish; pour caper sauce over it, and serve; salmon dressed in 
this way, with tomato sauce, is very delicious. 

SALMON CUTLETS. 

Cut the slices one inch thick, and season them with pep- 
per and salt; butter a sheet of white paper, lay each slice on 
a separate piece, with their ends twisted; boil gently over a 
clear fire, and serve with anchovy or caper sauce. When 
higher seasoning is required, add a few chopped herbs and 
a little spice. 

DRIED OR SMOKED SALMON. 

Cut the fish down the back, take out the entrails, and roe, 
scale it, and rub the outside and in with common salt, and 
hang it to drain for twenty-four hours. 

Pound three ounces of saltpetre, two ounces of coarse salt 
and two of coarse brown sugar; mix these well together, and 
rub the salmon over every part with it; then lay it on a large 
dish for two days; then rub it over with common salt, and 
in twenty-four hours it will be fit to dry. Wipe it well, 
stretch it open with two sticks, and hang it in a chimney, 
with a smothered wood fire, or in a smoke house, or in a 
dry, cool place. 

Shad done in this manner are very fine. 




lo&'s Eead and Shoulders 



FISH 



THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. S7 



BOILED COD. 

Lay the fish in cold water, a little salt, for half an hour. 
Wipe dry, and sew up in a linen cloth, coarse and clean 
fitted to the shape of the piece of cod. Have but one fold 
over each part. Lay in the fish-kettle, cover with boiling 
water, salted at discretion. Allow nearly an hour for a 
piece weighing four pounds. 

COD PIE. 

Any remains of cold cod, twelve ousters, sufficint melted 
butter to moisten it; mashed potatoes enough to fill up the 
dish. 

Mode : Flake the fish from the bone, and carefully take 
away all the skin. Lay it in a pie-dish, pour over the melted 
butter and oysters (or oyster sauce, if there is any left), and 
cover with mashed potatoes. Bake for half an hour, and 
send to table of a nice brown color. 

DRIED CODFISH. - 

This should always be laid in soak at least one night be- 
fore it is wanted; then take off the skin and put it in plenty 
of cold water; boil it gently (skimming it meanwhile) for 
one hour, or tie it in a cloth and boil it. 

Serve with egg sauce; garnish with hard-boiled eggs cut 
in slices, and sprigs of parsley. Serve plain boiled or 
mashed potatoes with it. 

STEWED SALT COD. 

Scald some soaked cod by putting it over the fire in boil- 
ing water for ten minutes; then scrape it white, pick it in 
flakes, and put it in a stew-pan, with a tablespoonful of but- 
ter worked into the same of flour, and as much milk as will 
moisten it; let it stew gently for ten minutes; add pepper 



88 THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 

to taste, and serve hot; put it in a deep dish, slice hard- 
boiled eggs over, and sprigs of parsley around the edge. 

This is a nice relish for breakfast, with coffe and tea, and 
rolls or toast 

CODFISH CAKES. 

First boil soaked cod, then chop it line, put to it an equaf 
quantity of potatoes boiled and mashed; moisten it with 
beaten eggs or milk, and a bit of butter and a little pepper ; 
form it in small, round cakes, rather more than a half inch 
thick; flour the outside, and fry in hot lard or beef drippings 
until they are a delicate brown ; like fish, these must be fried 
gently, the lard being boiling hot when they are put in; 
when one side is done turn the other. Serve for breakfast. 

BOILED BASS. 

Put enough water in the pot for the fish to swim in, easily, 
Add half a cup of vinegar, a teaspoonful of salt, an onion, a 
dozen black peppers, and a blade of mace. Sew up the fish 
in a piece of clean net, fitted to its shape. Heat slowly for 
the first half hour, then boil eight minutes, at least, to the 
pound, quite fast. Unwrap, and pour over it a cup of drawn 
butter, based upon the liquor in which the fish was boiled, 
with the juice of half a lemon stirred into it. Garnish with 
eliced lemon. 

FRIED BASS. 

Clean, wipe dry, inside and out, dredge with flour, and 
season with salt. Fry in hot butter, beef-dripping, or sweet 
lard. Half-butter, half-lard is a good mixture for frying fish. 
The moment the fish are done to a good brown, take them 
from the fat and drain in a hot colander. Garnish with 
parsley, 



THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 89 



TO FRY OR BROIL FISH PROPERLY. 

After the fish is well cleansed, lay it on a folded towel and 
dry out ail the water. "When well wiped and dry, roll it in 
wheat flour, rolled crackers, grated stale bread, or Indian 
meal, whichever may be preferred; wheat flour will gen- 
erally be liked. 

Have a thick-bottomed frying-pan or spider, with plenty 
of sweet lard salted (a tablespoonful of salt to each pound 
of lard), for fresh fish which have not been previously salted; 
let it become boiling not, then lay the fish in and let it fry 
gently, until one side is a fine delicate brown, then turn the 
other; when both are done, take it up carefully and serve 
quickly, or keep it covered with a tin cover, and set the dish 
where it will keep hoi 

BAKED BLACK BASS. 

Eight good-sized onions chopped fine; half that quantity 
of bread-crumbs; butter size of hen's egg; plenty of pepper 
and salt, mix thoroughly with anchovy sauce until quite red. 
Stuff your fish with this compound and pour the rest over 
it, previously sprinkling it with a little red pepper. Shad, 
pickerel, and trout are good the same way. Tomatoes can 
be used instead of anchovies, and are more economical. If 
using them take pork in place of butter and chop fine. 

BROILED MACKEREL. 

Pepper and salt to taste, a small quantity of oil. Mack- 
erel should never be washed when intended to be broiled, but 
merely wiped very clean and dry after taking out the gills 
and inside. Open the back, and put in a little pepper, salt, 
and oil; broil it over a clear fire, turn it over on both sides, 
and also on the back. When sufficiently cooked, the flesh 
can be detached from the bone, which will be in about ten 



40 THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 

minutes for a small mackerel. Chop a little parsley, work ifc 
up in the butter, with pepper and salt to taste, and a squeeze 
of lemon-juice, and put it in the back. Serve before the 
butter is quite melted. 

Mode : Scale and clean the pike, and fasten the tail in its 
mouth by means of a skewer. Lay it in cold water, and 
when it boils, throw in the salt and vinegar. The time for 
boiling depends, of course, on the size of the fish; but a 
middling-sized pike will take about half an hour. Serve with 
Dutch or anchovy sauce, and plain melted butter. 

Mackerel baked will be found palatable. Clean and trim 
the fish nicely, say four large ones, or half a dozen small 
ones, bone them and lay neatly in a baking dish, or a bed 
of potato chips well dusted with a mixture of pepper and 
salt; on the potatoes place a few pieces of butter. Dust the 
fish separately with pepper and salt, and sprinkle slightly 
with a diluted mixture of anchovy sauce and catsup. Bake 
three quarters of an hour. 

SALT MACKEREL WITH CREAM SAUCE. 

Soak over night in lukewarm water, changing this in the 
morning for ice-cold. Rub all the salt off, and wipe dry. 
Grease your gridiron with butter, and rub the fkh on both 
sides with the same, melted. Then broil quickly over a 
clear fire, turning with a cake-turner so as not to break it. 
Lay upon a hot water dish, and cover until the sauce is 
ready. 

Heat a small cup of milk to scalding. Stir into it a tea* 
spoonful of corn-starch wet up with a little water. When 
this thickens, add two tablespoonfuls of butter, pepper, salt, 
and chopped parsley. Beat an egg light, pour the sauce 
gradually over it, put the mixture again over the fire, and 
stir one minute, not more. Pour upon the fish, and let 
all stand, covered, over the hot water in the chafing dish. 



THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 41 

Put fresh boiling water under the dish before sending to 
table. 

BOILED EELS. 

Four small eels, sufficient water to cover them; a large 
bunch tti parsley. 

Choose small eels for boiling, put them on a stewpan with 
the parsley, and just sufficient water to cover them; simmer 
till tender. Take them out, po'ur a little parsley and but- 
ter over them, and serve some in a tureen. 

FRICASSEED EELS. 

After skinning, clearing, and cutting five or six eels in 
pieces of two inches in Jength, boil them in water nearly to 
cover them, until tender; then add a good-sized bit of but- 
ter, with a teaspoonful of wheat flour or rolled cracker, 
worked into it, and a little scalded and chopped parsley; 
add salt and pepper to taste, and a wine-glass of vinegar if 
liked; let them simmer for ten minutes and serve hot. 

FRIED EELS. 

After cleaning the eels well, cut them in pieces two inches 
long; wash them and wipe them dry; roll them in wheat 
flour or rolled cracker, and fry as directed for other fish, 
in hot lard or beef dripping, salted. They should be 
browned all over and thoroughly done, 

Eels may be prepared in the same manner and broiled. 

COLLARED EELS. 

One large eel, pepper and salt to taste; two blades of 
mace, two cloves, a little allspice very finely pounded, six 
leaves of sage, and a small bunch of herbs minced very 
small. 

Mode: Bone the eel and skin it; split it, and sprinkle it 
over with the ingredients, taking care that the spices are 



42 THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 

very finely pounded, and the herbs chopped very small. 
Roll it up and bind with a broad piece of tape, and fooil it 
in water, mixed with a little salt and vinegar, till tender. 
It may either be served whole or cut in slices; and when 
cold, the eel should be kept in the liquor it was boiled in 
but with a little more vingar put to it. 

FRIED TROUT. 

They must, of course, be nicely cleaned and trimmed all 
round, but do not cut off their heads. Dredge them well 
with flour, and fry in a pan of boiling hot fat or oil. Turn 
them from side to side till they are nicely browned, and 
quite ready. Drain off all the fat before sending the fish to 
table; garnish them with a few sprigs of parsley, and pro- 
vide plain melted butter. If preferred, the trout can be 
larded with beaten egg t and be then dipped in bread crumb. 
The frying will occupy from five to eight minutes, accord- 
ing to size. Very large trout can be cut in pieces. 

TROUT IN JELLY (or other Fish). 

This is a beautiful supper dish, and may be arranged aa 
follows: Turn the fish into rings, with tail in mouth, pre- 
pare a seasoned water in which to boil the trout; the water 
should have a little vinegar and salt in it, and may ha flav- 
ored with a shallot or clove or garlic. When the water is 
cold, place the trout in it, and boil them very gently, so asn«fc 
to hash or break them. When done, lift out and drain. 
Baste with fish jelly, for which a recipe is given elsewhere, 
coat ofter coat, as each coat hardens. Arrange neatly, and 
serve. 

BOILED TROUT. 

Let the water be thoroughly a-boil before you put in the 
fish, See that it is salt, and that a dash of vinegar has been 



THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK, 43 

put in it. Remove all scum as it rises, and boil the fish till 
their eyes protrude. Lift them without breaking, drain off 
the liquor, and serve on a napkin if you like. To be eaten 
with a sauce according to taste, that is, if it can be made of 
either anchovies or shrimps. 

BROILED TROUT. 

Clean and split them open, season with a little salt and 
Cayenne; dip in whipped egg, dredge with flour and 
brander over a clear fire. Serve with sauce. 

BAKED HADDOCK. 

Choose a nice fish of about six pounds, which trim and 
scrape nicely, gutting it carefully, fill the vacuum with a 
stuffing of veal, chopped ham, and bread-crumbs, sew up 
with strong thread, and shape the fish round, putting its 
tail into its mouth, or, if two are required, lay them along 
the dish reversed — that is, tail to head; rub over with 
plenty of butter, or a batter of eggs and flour, and then 
sprinkle with bread-crumbs. Let the oven be pretty hot 
when put in. In about on hour the fish will be ready. 
Serve on the tin or aisset in which they have been baked, 
placing them on a larger dish for that purpose. Mussel 
sauce is a good accompaniment. 

CURRIED HADDOCK. 

Curried haddock is excellent. Fillet the fish and curry 
it in a pint of beef stock slightly diluted with water, and 
thickened with a tablespoonful of curry powder. Some 
cooks chop up an onion to place in the stew. It will take 
an hour to ready this fish. If preferred, fry the fish for a 
few minutes in clean lard oil before stewing it in the curry. 



44 THE EVEEYDAY COOK-BOOK. 



RIZZARED HADDOCK. 

First, of course, procure your fish, clean them thorough- 
ly, rub them well with salt, and let them lie for one night, 
after which \ang them m the open air, to dry, in a shady 
place. In two days they will be ready for the gridiron. 
Before cooking them take out the backbone and skin them, 
if desired (I never do sit in them), broil till ready, eat with a 
little fresh butter. 

Haddocks can be boiled with advantage: all that is nec- 
essary is plenty of salt in the water, and not to serve them 
till they are well done. As a general rule, it may be ascer- 
tained when fish is sufficiently cooked by the readiness with 
which the flesh lifts from the bone. Stick a fork into 
the shoulder of a cod or haddock and try it. If living suffi- 
ciently near the sea, procure sea water in which to boil your 
haddocks. 

BROILED WHITE-FISH— FRESH. 

Wash and drain the fish; sprinkle with pepper and lay 
with the inside down upon the gridiron, and broil over fresh 
bright coals. When a nice brown, turn for a moment on 
the other side, then take up and spread with butter. This 
is a very nice way of broiling all kinds offish, fresh or salt- 
ed. A little smoke under the fish adds to its flavor. This 
may be made by putting two or three cobs under the grid- 
iron. 

BAKED WHITE-FISH. 

Fill the fish with a stuffing o'f fine bread-crumbs and a 
little butter; sew up the fish; sprinkle with butter, pepper 
and salt. Dredge with flour and bake one hour, basting 
often, and serving with parsley sauce or egg sauce. 



THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK « 

TO CHOOSE LOBSTERS. 

These are chosen more by weight than size, the heaviest 
are best; a good, small-sized one will not unfrequently be 
found to weigh as heavily as one much larger. If fresh, a 
lobster will be lively and the claws have a strong motion 
when the eyes are precsed with the linger. 

The male is best for boiling; the flesh is firmer, and the 
shell a brighter red; it may be readily distinguished from 
the female; the tail is narrower, and the two uppermost fins 
within the tail are stiff and hard. Those of the hen lobster 
are not so, and the tail is broader. 

Hen lobsters are preferred for sauce or salad, on account 
of their coral. The head and small claws are never used. 

BOILED LOBSTER. 

These crustaceans are usually sold ready-boiled. When 
served, crack the claws and cut open the body, lay neatly 
on a napkin-covered dish, and garnish with a few sprigs of 
paisley. Lobster so served is usually eaten cold. 

CURRIED LOBSTER. 

Pick out the meat of two red lobsters from the shells into 
a shallow sauce-pan, in the bottom of which has been placed 
a thin slice of tasty ham, with a little Cayenne pepper 
and a teaspoonful of salt. Mix up half a cupful of white 
soup and half a cupful of cream and pour over the meat. 
Put it on the fire and let it simmer for about an hour, 
when you will add a dessert-spoonful of curry, and an- 
other of flour rubbed smooth in a little of the liquor taken 
out of the pot ; in three minutes the curry will be ready to 
dish. Some add a dash of lemon to this curry (I don't), 
and the cream can be dispensed with if necessary. Put a 
rim of well-boiled rice round the dish if you like, or serve 
the rice separately. 



48 THE EVERYDAY COO- 



LOBSTER CHOWDER. 



Four or five pounds of lobster, chopped fine; take the 
green part and add to it four pounded crackers; stir this 
into one quart of boiling milk; then add the lobster, apiece 
of butter one-half the size of an egg, a little pepper and salt, 
and bring it to a boil. 

CHOWDER. 

Cut some slices of pork very thin, and fry them out dry in 
the dinner-pot; then put in a layer of fish cut in slices on 
the pork, then a layer of onions, and then potatoes, all cut 
in exceedingly thin slices; then fish, onions, potatoes again, 
till your materials are all in, putting some salt and pepper 
on each layer of onions ; split some hard biscuits, dip them 
in water, and put them round the sides and over the top; 
put in water enough to come up in sight; stew for over half 
an hour, till the potatoes are done; add half a pint of milk, 
or a teacup of sweet cream, five minutes before you take 
it up. 

TO FRY SMELTS. 

Egg and bread-crumbs, a little flour, boiling lard. Smelts 
should be very fresh, and not washed more than is neces- 
sary to clean them. Dry them in a cloth, lightly flour, dip 
them in egg, and sprinkle over with very fine bread-crumbs, 
and put them into boiling lard. Fry of a nice pale brown, 
and be careful not to take off the light roughness of the 
crumbs, or their beauty will be spoiled. Dry them before 
the fire on a drainer, and serve with plain melted butter. 

TO BAKE SMELTS. 

Smelts, bread-crnmbs, one-quarter pound of fresh butter, 
two blades of pounded mace; salt and Cayenne to taste. 



THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 

Wash, and dry the fish thorougly in a clotb, and arrange 
them nicely in a flat baking-dish. Cover them with fine 
bread-crumbs, and place little pieces of butter all over 
them. Season and bake for fifteen minutes. But before serv- 
ing, add u squeeze of lemon-juice, and garnish with fried 
parsley and cut lemon. 

RED HERRINGS or YARMOUTH BLOATERS. 

The best way to cook these is to make incisions in the 
skin across the fish, because they do not then require to be 
so long on the fire, and will be far better than when cut 
open. The hard roe makes a nice relish by pounding it in 
a mortar, with a little anchovy, and spreading it on toast. 

If very dry, soak in warm water, one hour before dres- 
sing. 

POTTED FISH. 

Take out the backbone of the fish ; for one weighing two 
pounds take a tablespoonful of allspice and cloves mixed; 
these spices should be put into little bags of not too thick 
muslin; put sufficient salt directly upon each fish; then roll 
in a cloth, over which sprinkle a little Cayenne pepper; put 
alternate layers of fish, spice and sago in an earthen jar; 
cover with the best cider-vinegar; cover the jar closely 
with a plate and over this put a covering of dough, rolled 
out to twice the thickness of pie crust. Make the edges of 
paste, to adhere closely to the sides of the jar, so as to make 
it air-tight. Put the jar into a pot of cold water and let it 
boil from three to five hours, according to quantity. Ready 
when cold. 

OYSTERS ON THE SHELL. 

Wash the shells and put them on hot coals or upon the 
top of a hot stove, or bake them in a hot oven; open the 
ahells with an oyster-knife, taking car© to lose none of 



4$ THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOR. 

the liquor, and serve quickly on hot plates, with toast 
Oysters may be steamed in the shells, and are excellent 
eaten in the same manner. 

OYSTERS STEWED WITH MILK. 

Take a pint of fine oysters, put them with their own 
liquor, and a gill of milk into a stew pan, and if liked, a 
blade of mace, set it over the fire, take off any scum which 
may rise; when they are plump and white turn them into a 
deep plate; add a bit of butter, and pepper to taste. Serve 
crackers and dressed celery with them. Oysters may be 
stewed in their own liquor without milk. 

OYSTERS FRIED IN BATTER. 

Half pint of oysters, two eggs, half pint of milk, sufficient 
flour to make the batter; pepper and salt to taste; when 
liked, a little nutmeg; hot lard. Scald the oysters in their 
own liquor, beard them, and lay them on a cloth, to drain 
thoroughly. Break the eggs into a basin, mix the flour 
with them, add the milk gradually, with nutmeg and seas- 
oning, and put the oysters in a batter. Make some lard 
hot in a deep frying-pan, put in the oysters, one at a time; 
when done, take them up with a sharp-pointed skewer, and 
dish them on a napkin. Fried oysters are frequently used 
for garnishing boiled fish, and then a few bread-crumbs 
should be added to the flour. 

SCALLOPED OYSTERS. 

Two tablespoonfuls of white stock, two tablesponfuls of 
cream; pepper and salt to taste; bread-crumbs, oiled but- 
ter. Scald the oysters in their own liquor, take them out, 
beard them, and strain the liquor free from grit. Put one 
ounce of butter into a stewpan; when melted, dredge in 
sufficient flour to dry it up; add the stock, cream and 



THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 49 

strained liquor, and give one boil. Put in the oysters and 
seasoning; let them gradually heat through, but not boil. 
Have ready the scallop-shells buttered; lay in the oysters, 
and as much of the liquid as they will hold; cover them 
over with bread-crumbs, over which drop a little oiled but- 
ter. Brown them in the oven, or before the fire, and serve 
quickly, and very hot. 

FRIED OYSTERS. 

Take large oysters from their own liquor on to a thickly 
folded napkin to dry them off; then make a tablespoonful 
of lard or beef fat hot, in a thick bottomed frying-pan, add 
to it half a saltspoonful of salt; dip each oyster in wheat 
flour, or cracker rolled fine, until it will take up no more, 
then lay them in the pan, hold it over a gentle fire until one 
side is a delicate brown; turn the other by sliding a fork 
under it; five minutes will fry them after they are in the 
pan. Oysters may be fried in butter but it is not so good, 
lard and butter half and half is very nice for frying. Some 
persons like a very little of the oyster liquid poured in the 
pan after the oysters are done; let it boil up, then put it 
in the dish with the oysters; when wanted for breakfast, 
this should be done. 

Oysters to be fried, after drying as directed, may be 
dipped into beaten egg first, then into rolled cracker, 

OYSTER PATTIES. 

Make some rich puff paste and bake it in very small 
tin patty pans; when cool, turn them out upon a large dish; 
stew some large fresh oysters with a few cloves, a little 
mace and nutmeg; then add the yolk of one egg y boiled 
hard and grated ; add a little butter, and as much of the 
oyster liquid as will cover them. "When they have stewed a 
little while, take them out of the pan and set them to cooL 



60 THE E VER YD A Y COOK-BOOK. 

When quite cold, lay two or three oysters in each shell o\ 
puff paste. 

BROILED OYSTERS. 

Drain the oysters well and dry them with a napkin. 
Have ready a griddle hot and well buttered; season the 
oysters; lay them to griddle and brown them on both sides. 
Serve them on a hot plate with plenty of butter. 

CLAM FRITTERS. 

Take fifty small or twenty- five large sand clams from 
their shells; if large, cut each in two, lay them on a thickly 
folded napkin; put a pint bowl of wheat flour into a basin, 
add to it two well-beaten eggs, half a pint of sweet milk, 
and nearly as much of their own liquor; beat the batter 
until it is smooth and perfectly free from lamps; then stir 
in the clams. Put plenty of lard or beef fat into a thick- 
bottomed frying pan, let it become boiling hot; put in the 
batter by the spoonful; let them fry gently; when one 
side is a delicate brown, turn the other. 

SOFT-SHELLED CLAMS. 

These are very fine if properly prepared. They are good 
only during cold weather and must be perfectly fresh. 

Soft-shelled clams may be boiled from the shells, and 
served with butter, pepper and salt over. 

TO BOIL SOFT-SHELL CLAMS. 

Wash the shells clean, and put the clams, the edges 
downwards, in a kettle; then pour about a quart of boil- 
ing water over them; cover the pot and set it over a 
brisk fire for three quarters of an hour; pouring boiling 
water on them causes the shells to open quickly and let out 
out the sand which may be in them. 



THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 61 

Take tHem up when done, take off the black skin which 
covers the hard part, trim them clean, and put them into 
a stew-pan; put to them some of the liquor in which they 
were boiled; put to it a good bit of butter and pepper and 
salt to taste; make them hot; serve with cold butter and 
rolls. 

CLAM CHOWDER. 

Butter a deep tin basin, strew it thickly with grated bread- 
crumbs, or soaked cracker; sprinkle some pepper over and 
bits of butter the size of a hickory nut, and, if liked, some 
finely chopped parsley; then put a double layer of clams, 
season with pepper, put bits of butter over, then another 
layer of soaked cracker; after that clams and bits of butter; 
sprinkle pepper over; add a cup of milk or water, and lastly 
a layer of soaked crackers. Turn a plate over the basin, 
and bake in a hot oven for three-quarters of an hour; use 
half a pound of soda biscuit, and quarter of a pound of 
butter with fifty clams. 



62 TME EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 



MEATS. 



ROAST BEEF. 

Prepare for the oven by dredging lightly with flour, and 
seasoning with salt and pepper; place in the oven, and 
baste frequently while roasting. Allow a quarter of an 
hour for a pound of meat, if you like it rare; longer if you 
like it well done. Serve with a sauce made from the drip- 
pings in the pan, to which has been added a tablespoon of 
Harvey or Worcestershire sauce, and a tablespoon of to- 
mato catsup. 

ROUND OF BEEF BOILED. 

See that it is not too large, and that it is tightly bound 
all round. About twelve pounds or fourteen pounds form 
a convenient size, and a joint of that weight will require 
from three hours to three hours and a quarter to boiL Put 
on with cold water — as the liquor is valuable for making 
pea-soup — and let it come slowly to the boiL Boil care- 
fully but not rapidly, and skim frequently; as a rule, keep 
the lid of the pot well fixed. The meat may be all the 
better if taken out once or twice in the process of cooking. 
Carrots and turnips may be boiled to serve with the round; 
they will, of course, cook in about a third of the time nec- 
essary to boil the beef. 

BEEF SALTED, OR CORNED, RED, 

To Keep for Years. 

Cut up a quarter of beef. For each hundredweight take 
half a peck of coarse salt, quarter of a pound of saltpetre, 




Tore Quarter of lamL Saddle of 

JOINTS Sc ENTREES 



THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 63 

the same weight of saieratus, and a quart of molas"8e§, or 
two pounds of coarse brown sugar. Mace, cloves and all- 
spice may be added for spiced beef. 

Strew some of the salt in the bottom of a pickle-tub or 
barrel; then put in a layer of meat, strew this with salt, 
then add another layer of meat, and salt and meat alter- 
nately, until all is used. Let it remain one night. Dissolve 
the saieratus and saltpetre in a little warm water, and put 
it to the molasses or sugar; then put it over the meat, add 
water enough to cover the meat, lay a board on it to keep 
it under the brine. The meat is fit for use after ten days. 
This receipt is for winter beef. Rather more salt may be 
used in warm weather. 

Towards spring take the brine from the meat, make it 
boiling hot, skim it clear, and when it is cooled, return it 
to the meat. 

Beef tongues and smoking pieces are fine pickled in this 
brine. Beef liver put in this brine for ten days and then 
wiped dry and smoked, is very fine. Cut it in slices, and 
fry or broil it. The brisket of beef, after being corned, 
may be smoked, and is very fine for boiling. 

Lean pieces of beef, cut properly from the hind quarter, 
are the proper pieces for being smoked. There may be some 
fine pieces cut from the fore-quarter. 

After the beef has been in brine ten days or more wipe it 
dry, and hang it in a chimney where wood is burnt, or 
make a smothered fire of sawdust or chips, and keep it 
smoking for tea days; then rub fine black pepper over every 
part, to keep the fiies from it, and hang it in a dry, dark, 
cool place. After a week it is fit for use. A strong, coarse 
brown paper, folded around beef, and fastened with paste, 
keeps it nicely. 

Tongues are smoked in the same manner. Hang them 
by a string put through the root end. Spiced brine fo* 
smoked beef or tongues will be generally liked. 



54 THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 

For convenience make a pickle as mentioned for beef, 
keep it in the cellar, ready for pickling beef at any time. 
Beef may remain in three or four or more days. 

TO BOIL CORNED BEEF. 

Put the beef in water enough to cover it, and let it heat 
slowly, and boil slowly, and be careful to take off the grease. 
Many think it much improved by boiling potatoes, turnips, 
and cabbages with it. In this case the vegetables must be 
peeled and all the grease carefully skimmed as fast as it 
rises. Allow about twenty minutes of boiling for each 
pound of meat. 

A NICE WAY TO SERVE COLD BEEF. 

Cut cold roast beef in slices, put gravy enough to cover 
them, and a wineglass of catsup or wine, or a lemon sliced 
thin; if you have not gravy, put hot water and a good bit 
of butter, with a teaspoonful or more of browned flour; 
put it in a closely covered stew-pan, and let it simmer 
gently for half an hour. If you choose, when the meat is 
down, cut a leek in thin slices, and chop a bunch of parsley 
small, and add it; serve boiled or mashed potatoes with it. 
This is equal to beef-a-la-mode. 

Or, cold beef may be served cut in neat slices, garnished 
with sprigs of parsley, and made mustard, and tomato 
catsup in the castor; serve mashed, if not new potatoes, 
with it, and ripe fruit, or pie, or both, for dessert, for a 
small family dinner. 

SPICED BEEF. 

Four pounds of round of beef chopped fine; take from 
it all fat; add to it three dozen small crackers rolled fine, 
four eggs, one cup of milk, one tablespoon ground mace, 
uvo tablespoons of black pepper, one tablespoon melted 



THE EVERYDAY COOK-hOOK. 66 

butter; mix well and put in any tin pan that it will just fill, 
packing it well ; baste with butter and water, and bake two 
hours in a slow oven. 

BROILED BEEFSTEAK. 

Lay a thick tender steak upon a gridiron over hot coals, 
having greased the bars with butter before the steak has 
been put upon it (a steel gridiron with slender bars is to 
be preferred, the broad flat iron bars of gridirons com- 
monly used fry and scorch the meat, imparting a disagree- 
able flavor). When done on one side, have ready your 
platter warmed, with a little butter on it; lay the steak 
upon the platter with the cooked side down, that the juices 
which have gathered may run on the platter, but do not 
press the meat; then lay your beefsteak again upon the 
gridiron quickly and cook the other side. When done to 
your liking, put again on the platter, spread lightly with 
Dutter, place where it will keep warm for a few moments, 
but not to let the butter become oily (over boiling steam is 
best); and then serve on hot plates. Beefsteak should 
never be seasoned with salt and pepper while cooking. If 
your meat is tough, pound well with a steak mallet on both 
sides. 

FRIED BEEFSTEAKS. 

Cut some of the fat from the steak, and put it in a frying 
pan and set it over the fire; if the steaks are not very ten- 
der, beat them with a rolling pin, and when the fat is boil- 
ing hot, put the steak evenly in, cover the pan and let it fry 
briskly until one side is done, sprinkle a little pepper and 
salt over, and turn the other; let it be rare or well done as 
may be liked; take the steak on a hot dish, add a wine- 
glass or less of boiling water or catsup to the gravy; let it 
boil up once, and pour it in the dish with the steak. 



THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 



BEEFSTEAK PIE. 

Take some fine tender steaks, beat them a little, season 
with a saltspoonful of pepper and a teaspoonful of salt to 
a two-pound steak; put bits of butter, the size of a hickory 
nut, over the whole surface, dredge a teaspoonful of flour 
over, then roll it up and cut it in pieces two inches long; 
put a rich pie paste around the sides and bottom of a tin 
basin; put in the pieces of steak, nearly fill the basin with 
water, add a piece of butter the size of a large egg y cut 
small, dredge in a teaspoonful of flour, add a little pepper 
and salt, lay skewers across the basin, roll a top crust to 
half an inch thickness, cut a slit in the center; dip your 
fingers in flour and neatly pinch the top and side crust to- 
gether all around the edge. Bake one hour in a quick oven. 

BOILED LEG OF MUTTON. 

Mutton, water, salt. A leg of mutton for boiling should 
not hang too long, as it will not look a good color when 
dressed. Cut off the shank-bone, trim the knuckle and 
wash and wipe it very clean ; plunge it into sufficient boil- 
ing water to cover it; let it boil up, then draw the sauce- 
pan to the side of the fire, where it should remain till the 
finger can be borne in the water. Then place it sufficiently 
near the fire, that the water may gently simmer, and be 
very careful that it does not boil fast, or the meat will be 
hard. Skim well, add a little salt, and in about two and 
one quarter hours after the water begins to simmer, a mod- 
erate-sized leg of mutton will be done. Serve with carrots 
and mashed turnips, which may be boiled with the meat, 
and send caper sauce to table with it in a tureen. 



THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 67 



ROAST LOIN OF MUTTON. 

Loin of mutton, a little salt. Cut and trim off the su- 
perfluous fat, and see that the butcher joints the meat prop- 
erly, as thereby much annoyance is saved to the carver, 
when it comes to table. Have ready a nice clear fire (it 
need not be a very wide, large one), put down the meat, 
dredge with flour, and baste well until it is done. 

BROILED MUTTON CHOPS. 

Loin of mutton, pepper and salt, a small piece of butter. 
Cut the chops from a well-hung, tender loin of mutton, re- 
move a portion of the fat, and trim them into a nice shape; 
slightly beat and level them; place the gridiron over a 
bright, clear fire, rub the bars with a little fat, and lay on 
the chops. While broiling, frequently turn them, and in 
about eight minutes they will be done. Season with pepper 
and salt, dish them on a very hot dish, rub a small piece of 
butter on each chop, and serve very hot and expeditiously. 

MUTTON CHOP FRIED. 

Cut some fine mutton chops without much fat, rub over 
both sides with a mixture of salt and pepper, dip them in 
wheat flour or rolled crackers, and fry in hot lard or beef 
drippings; when both sides are a fine brown, take them on 
a hot dish, put a wineglass of hot water in the pan, let it 
become hot, stir in a teaspoonlul of browned flour, let it 
boil up at once, and serve in the pan with the meat. 

ROAST FORE-QUARTER OF LAMB. 

Lamb, a little salt. To obtain the flavor of lamb in 
perfection it should not be long kept; time to cool is all 



68 THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 

that is required; and though the meat may be somewhat 
thready, the juices and flavor will be infinitely superior to 
that of lamb that has been killed two or three days. Make 
up the fire in good time, that it may be clear and brisk 
when the joint is put down. Place it at sufficient distance 
to prevent the fat from burning, and baste it constantly till 
the moment of serving. Lamb should be very thoroughly 
done without being dried up, and not the slightest appear- 
ance of red gravy should be visible, as in roast mutton; 
this rule is applicable to all young white meats. Serve with 
a little gravy made in the dripping-pan, the same as for 
other roasts, and send to table with a tureen of mint sauce. 

LAMBS' SWEETBREADS. 

Two or three sweetbreads, one-half pint of veal stock, 
white pepper and salt to taste, a small bunch of green 
onions, one blade of pounded mace, thickening of butter 
and flour, two eggs, nearly one-half pint of cream, one 
teaspoonful of minced parsley, a very little grated nut- 
meg. 

Mode: Soak the sweetbreads in lukewarm water, and 
put them into a saucepan with sufficient boiling water to 
cover them, and let them simmer for ten minutes ; then take 
them out and put them into cold water. Now lard them, 
lay them in a stewpan, add the stock, seasoning, onions, 
mace, and a thickening of butter and flour, and stew gently 
for one-quarter of an hour or twenty minutes. Beat up the 
egg with the cream, to which add the minced parsley and 
very little grated nutmeg. Put this to the other ingredi- 
ents; stir it well till quite hot, but do not let it boil after 
the cream is added, or it will curdle. Have ready some 
asparagus- tops, boiled; add these to the sweetbreads, and 
serve. 

Lamb Steak dipped in egg, and then in biscuit or bread- 



THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 69 

crumbs, and fried until it is brown, helps to make variety 
for the breakfast table. With baked sweet potatoes, good 
coffee, and buttered toast or corn muffins, one may begin 
the day with courage. 

TO ROAST VEAL. 

Rinse the meat in cold water; if any part is bloody, wash 
it off; make a mixture of pepper and salt, allowing a large 
teaspoonful of salt and a saltspoonful of pepper for each 
pound of meat; wipe the meat dry; then rub the seasoning 
into every part, shape it neatly, and fasten it with skewers, 
and put it on a spit, or set it on a trivet or muffin rings, in a 
pan; stick bits of butter over the whole upper surface; 
dredge a little flour over, put a pint of water in the pan to 
baste with, and roast it before the fire in a Dutch oven or 
reflector, or put it into a hot oven; baste it occasionally, turn 
it if necessary that every part may be done; if the water 
wastes add more, that the gravy may not burn ; allow fifteen 
minutes for each pound of meat ; a piece weighing four or 
five pounds will then require one hour, or an hour and a 
quarter. 

VEAL CHOPS. 

Cut veal chops about an inch thick ; beat them flat with 
a rolling-pin, put them in a pan, pour boiling water over 
them, and set them over the fire for five minutes; then take 
them up and wipe them dry; mix a tablespoonful of salt and 
a teaspoonful of pepper for each pound of meat; rub each 
chop over with this, then dip them, first into beaten egg, then 
into rolled crackers as much as they will take up; then 
finish by frying in hot lard or beef drippings; or broil them. 
For the broil have some sweet butter on a steak dish; broil 
the chops until well done, over a bright clear fire of coals; 
(let them do gently that they may be well done,) then take 
them on to the butter, turn them carefully once or twice in 



60 THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 

it, and serve. Or dip the chops into a batter, made of ona 
egg beaten with half a teacup of milk and as much wheat 
flour as may be necessary. Or simply dip the chops with- 
out parboiling into wheat flour; make some lard or beef fat 
hot in a frying-pan; lay the chops in, and when one side is 
a fine delicate brown, turn the other. When all are done, 
take them up, put a very little hot water into the pan, then 
put it in the dish with the chops. 

Or make a flour gravy thus: After frying them as last 
directed, add a tablespoonful more of fat to that in the pan, 
let it become boiling hot; make a thin batter, of a small 
tablespoonful of wheat flour and cold water; add a little 
more salt and pepper to the gravy, then gradually stir in 
the batter; stir it until it is cooked and a nice brown; then 
put it over the meat, or in the dish with it; if it is thicker 
than is liked, add a little boiling water. 

VEAL CUTLETS. 

Two or three pounds of veal cutlets, egg and bread- 
crumbs, two tablespoonfuls of minced savory herbs, salt 
and pepper to taste, a little grated nutmeg. 

Cut the cutlets about three-quarters of an inch in thick- 
ness, flatten them, and brush them over with the yolk of an 
egg; dip them into bread-crumbs and minced herbs, season 
with pepper and salt and grated nutmeg, and fold each cut- 
let in a piece of buttered paper. Broil them, and send 
them to table with melted butter or a good gravy. 

STUFFED FILLET OF VEAL WITH BACON. 

Take out the bone from the meat, and pin into a round 
with skewers. Bind securely with soft tapes. Fill the 
cavity left by the bone with a force-meat of crumbs, chopped 
pork, tbyme, and parsley, seasoned with pepper, salt, nut- 



THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK 61 

m9g and a pinch of lemon-peel. Cover the top of the fillet 
with thin slices of cold cooked* fat bacon or salt pork, tying 
them in place with twines crossing the meat in all directions. 
Put into a pot with two cups of boiling water, and cook 
slowly and steadily two hours. Then take from the pot and 
put into a dripping-pan. Undo the strings and tapes. 
Brush the meat all over with raw egg, sift rolled cracker 
thickly over it, and set in the oven for half an hour, bast- 
ing often with gravy from the pot. When it is well browned, 
lay upon a hot dish with the pork about it. Strain and 
thicken the gravy, and serve in a boat. 

If your fillet be large, cook twice as long in the pot. The 
time given above is for one weighing five pounds. 

VEAL CAKE (a Convenient Dish for a Picnic). 

A few slices of cold roast veal, a few slices of cold ham, 
two hard boiled eggs, two tablespoonfuls of minced parsley, 
a little pepper, good gravy, or stock No. 109. 

Cut off all the brown outside from the veal, and cut the 
eggs into slices. Procure a pretty mold; lay veal, ham, 
eggs, and parsley in layers, with a little pepper between 
each, and when the mold is full, get some strong stock, and 
fill up the shape. Bake for one half-hour, and when cold, 
turn it out. 

VEAL PIE. 

Cut a breast of veal small, and put it in a stewpan, with 
hot water to cover it; add to it a tablespoonful of salt, and 
set it over the fire; take off the scum as it rises; when the 
meat is tender, turn it into a dish to cool; take out all the 
small bones, butter a tin or earthen basin or pudding-pan, 
line it with a pie paste, lay some of the parboiled meat in to 
half fill it; put bits of butter the size of a hickory nut 
all over the meat; shake pepper over, dredge wheat flour 



62 THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 

over until it looks white; then fill it nearly to the top with 
some of the water in which the meat was boiled; roll a 
cover for the top of the crust, puff paste it, giving it two or 
three turns, and roll it to nearly half an inch thickness; cut 
a slit in the center, and make several small incisions on 
either side of it; lay some skewers across the pie, put the 
crust on, trim the edges neatly with a knife; bake one hour 
in a quick oven. A breast of veal will make two two-quart 
basin pies; half a pound of nice corned pork, cut in thin 
slices and parboiled with the meat, will make it very nice, 
and very little, if any butter, will be required for the pie; 
when pork is used, no other salt will be necessary. 

BOILED CALF HEAD (without the skin). 

Calfs head, water, a little salt, four tablespoonfuls of 
melted butter, one tablespoonful of minced parsley, pepper 
and salt to taste, one tablespoonful of lemon -juice. 

After the head has been thoroughly cleaned, and the 
brains removed, soak it in warm water to blanch it. Lay 
the brains also into warm water to soak, and let them 
remain for about an hour. Put the head into a stewpan, 
with sufficient cold water to cover it, and when it boils, 
add a little salt; take off every particle of scum as it rises, 
and boil the head until perfectly tender. Boil the brains, 
chop them, and mix with them melted butter, minced pars- 
ley, pepper, salt, and lemon juice in the above propor- 
tion. Take up the head, skin the tongue, and put it on a 
small dish with the brains round it. Have ready some pars- 
ley and butter, smother the head with it, and the remain- 
der send to table in a tureen. Bacon, ham, pickled pork, 
or a pig's cheek are indispensable with calf's head. The 
brains are sometimes chopped with hard-boiled eggs. 



THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 63 

CALF'S HEAD CHEESE. 

Boil a calf s head in water enough to cover it, until the 
meat leaves the bones, then take it with a skimmer into a 
wooden bowl or tray; take from it every particle of bone; 
chop it small; season with pepper and salt; a heaping 
tablespoonful of salt, and a teaspoonful of pepper will be 
sufficient; if liked, add a tablespoonful of finely chopped 
sweet herbs; lay a cloth in a colander, put the minced 
meat into it, then fold the cloth closely over it, lay a plate 
over, and on it a gentle weight. When cold it may be 
sliced thin for supper or sandwiches. Spread each slice 
with made mustard. 

BOILED CALF'S FEET AND PARSLEY 
BUTTER. 

Two calf's feet, two slices of bacon, two ounces of butter, 
two tablespoonfuls of lemon-juice, salt and whole pepper to 
taste, one onion, a bunch of savory herbs, four cloves, one 
blade of mace, water, parsley and butter. 

Procure two white calf's feet; bone them as far as the 
first joint, and put them into warm water to soak for two 
hours. Then put the bacon, butter, lemon-juice, onion, 
herbs, spices, and seasoning into a stewpan; lay in the feet, 
and pour in just sufficient water to cover the whole. Stew 
gently for about three hours; take out the feet, dish them, 
and cover with parsley and butter. 

The liquor they were boiled in should be strained and 
put by in a clean basin for use; it will be found very good 
as an addition to gravies, etc., etc. 

CALF'S LIVER AND BACON. 

Two or three pounds of liver, bacon, pepper and salt to 
taste, a small piece of butter, flour, two tablespoonfuls of 
lemon-juice, one-quarter pint of water. 



<U THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 

Cut the liver in thin slices, and cut as many slices of 
bacon as there are of liver; fry the bacon first, then put 
that on a hot dish before the fire. Fry the liver in the faV 
which comes from the bacon, after seasoning it with pep- 
per and salt, and dredging over it a very little flour. Turn 
the liver occasionally to prevent its burning, and when 
done, lay it round the dish with a piece of bacon between 
each. Pour away the bacon fat, put in a small piece of 
butter, dredge in a little flour, add the lemon -juice and 
water, give one boil, and pour it in the middle of the dish. 

SWEETBREAD. 

Three sweetbreads, egg, and bread-crumbs, oiled butter, 
three slices of toast, brown gravy. 

Choose large white sweetbreads; put them into warm 
water to draw out the blood, and to improve the color; let 
them remain for rather more than one hour; then put them 
into boiling water, and allow them to simmer for about ten 
minutes, which renders them firm. Take them up, drain 
them, brush over the egg, sprinkle with bread-crumbs; dip 
them in egg again, and then into more bread-crumbs. 
Drop on them a little oiled butter, and put the sweetbreads 
into a moderately heated oven, and let them bake for nearly 
three-quarters of an hour. Make three pieces of toast; 
place the sweetbreads on the toast, and pour round, but 
not over them, a good brown gravy. 

EGGED VEAL HASH. 

Chop fine remnants of coal roast veal. Moisten with the 
gravy or water. "When hot, break into it three or four 
eggs, according to the quantity of veal. "When the eggs are 
cooked, stir into it a spoonful of butter, and serve quickly. 
If to your taste, shake in a little parsley. Should you lack 
quantity, half a cup of fine stale bread-crumbs are no dis- 
advantage. 



THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. to 



ROAST BEEF, WITH YORKSHIRE PUDDING. 

Have your meat ready for roasting on Saturday, always. 
Roast upon a grating of several clean sticks (not pine) laid 
over the dripping-pan. Dash a cup of boiling water over 
the beef when it goes into the oven; baste often, and see 
that the fat does not scorch. About three-quarters of an 
hour before it is done, mis the pudding. 

YORKSHIRE PUDDING. 

One pint of milk, four eggs, whites and yolks beaten 
separately; two cups of flour — prepared flour is best; one 
teaspoonful of salt. 

Use less flour if the batter grows too stiff. Mix quickly; 
pour off the fat from the top of the gravy in the dripping 
pan, leaving just enough to prevent the pudding from stick- 
ing to the bottom. Pour in the batter and continue to 
roast the beef, letting the dripping fall upon the pudding 
below. The oven should be brisk by this time. Baste the 
meet with the gravy you have taken out to make room for 
the batter. In serving, cut the pudding into squares and 
lay about the meat in the dish. It is very delicious. 

BEEF HEART BAKED OR ROASTED. 

Cut a beef heart in two, take out the strings from the in- 
side; wash it vxith warm water, rub the inside with pepper 
and salt, and fill it with a stuffing. made of bread and but- 
ter moistened with water, and seasoned with pepper and 
salt, and, if liked, a sprig of thyme made fine; put it to- 
gether and tie a string around it, rub the outside with pep- 
per and salt; stick bits of butter on, then dredge flour over 
and set it on a trivet, or muffin rings, in a dripping-pan; 
put a pint of water in to baste with, then roast it before a 



66 THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 

hot fire, or in a hot oven; turn it around and baste fre* 
quently. One hour will roast or bake it; when done, take 
it up, cut a lemon in thick slices, and put it in the pan with 
a bit of butter, dredged in a teaspoonful of flour; let it 
brown; add a small teacup of boiling water, stir it smooth, 
and serve in a gravy tureen. 

BEEF KIDNEY. 

Cut the kidney into thin slices, flour them, and fry of a 
nice brown. When done, make a gravy in the pan by 
pouring away the fat, putting in a small piece of butter, 
one-quarter pint of boiling water, pepper and salt, and a 
tablespoonful of mushroom catsup. Let the gravy just 
boil up, pour over the kidney, and serve. 

POTTED BEEF. 

Two pounds of lean beef, one tablespoonful of water, one- 
quarter pound of butter, a seasoning to taste of salt, 
Cayenne, pounded mace, and black pepper. Procure a nice 
piece of lean beef, as free as possible from gristle, skin, 
etc., and put it into a jar (if at hand, one with a lid) with 
one teaspoonful of water. Cover it closely, and put the jar 
into a saucepan of boiling water, letting the water come 
within two inches of the top of the jar. Boil gently for 
three and a half hours, then take the beef, chop it very 
small with a chopping-knife, and pound it thoroughly in a 
mortar. Mix with it by degrees, all, or a portion of the 
gravy that will have run from it, and a little clarified butter 1 
add the seasoning, put it in small pots for use, and cover 
with a little butter just warmed and poured over. If much 
gravy is added to it, it will keep but a short time; on the 
contrary, if a large proportion of butter is used, it may be 
preserved for some time. 



THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 67 



BOILED TONGUE. 

One tongue, a bunch of savory herbs, water. In choosing 
a tongue, ascertain how long it has been dried or pickled, 
and select one with a smooth skin, which denotes its being 
young and tender. If a dried one, and rather hard, soak it 
at least for twelve hoars previous to cooking it; if, however, 
it is fresh from the pickle, two or three hours will be sufficient 
for it to remain in soak. Put the tongue into a stewpan 
with plenty of cold water and a bunch of savory herbs; let 
it gradually come to a boil, skim well, and simmer very 
gently until tender. Peel off the skin, garnish with tufts 
of cauliflowers or Brussels sprouts, and serve. Boiled 
tongue is frequently sent to table with boiled poultry, in- 
stead of ham, and is, by many persons, preferred. If to 
serve cold, peel it, fasten it down to a piece of board by 
sticking a fork through the root, and another through the 
top, to straighten it. When cold, glaze it, and put a 
paper ruche round the root, and garnish with tufts of 
parsley. 

FRICASSEED TRIPE. 

Cut a pound of tripe in narrow strips, put a small cup of 
water or milk to it, add a bit of butter the size of an egg, 
dredge in a large teaspoonful of flour, or work it with the 
butter; season with pepper and salt, let it simmer gently 
for half an hour, serve hot. A bunch of parsley cut small 
and put with it is an improvement. 

BROILED TRIPE. 

Prepare tripe as for frying; lay it on a gridiron over a 
clear fire of coals, let it broil gently; when one side is a 
fine brown, turn the other side (it must be nearly done 



68 THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 

through before turniDg) ; take it up on a hot dish, battel 
it, and if liked, add a little catsup or vinegar to the gravy. 

ROAST RABBIT. 

Empty, skin, and thoroughly wash the rabbit; wipe it 
dry, line the inside with sausage-meat and force-meat (the 
latter of bread-crumbs, well-seasoned, and worked up). 
Sew the stuffing inside, skewer back the head between the 
shoulders, cut off the fore joints of the shoulders and legs, 
bring them close to the body, and secure them by means of 
a skewer. "Wrap the rabbit in buttered paper, keep it well 
basted, and a few minutes before it is done remove the 
paper, flour and froth it, and let it acquire a nice brown 
color. It should be done in three-quarters of an hour. 
Take out the skewers, and serve with brown gravy and red- 
currant jelly. To bake the rabbit, proceed in the same 
manner as above; in a good oven it will take about the 
same time as roasting. Most cooks garnish the rabbit with 
slices of lemon and serve up with currant jelly. Some- 
times the head is cut off before sending to the table; but 
this is a matter of individual taste. 

STEWED RABBIT, Larded. 

One rabbit, a few strips of bacon, rather more than one 
pint of good broth or stock, a bunch of savory herbs, salt 
and pepper to taste, thickening of butter and flour, one 
glass of sherry. Well wash the rabbit, cut it into quarters, 
lard them with slips of bacon, and fry them; then put them 
into a stewpan with the broth, herbs, and a seasoning of 
pepper and salt; simmer gently until the rabbit is tender, 
then strain the gravy, thicken it with butter and flour, add 
the sherry, give one boil, pour it over the rabbit, and serv& 
Garnish with slices of cut lemon. 



THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 69 



FRICASSEED RABBITS. 

The best way of cooking rabbits is to fricassee them. 
Cut them up, or disjoint them. Put them into a stewpan; 
season them with Cayenne pepper, salt and some chopped 
parsley. Pour in a pint of warm water (or of veal broth, 
if you have it) and stew it over a slow fire till the rabbits 
are quite tender; adding (when they are about half done) 
some bits of butter rolled in flour. Just before you take it 
from the fire, enrich the gravy with a gill or more of thick 
cream with some nutmeg grated into it. Stir the gravy 
well, but take care not to let it boil after the cream is in, 
lest it curdle. Put the pieces of rabbit on a hot dish, and 
pour the gravy over them. 

A PRETTY DISH OF VENISON. 

Cut a breast of venison in steaks, make quarter of a 
pound of butter hot, in a pan, rub the steaks over with a 
mixture of a little salt and pepper, dip them in wheat flour, 
or rolled crackers, and fry a rich brown; when both sides 
are done, take them up on a dish, and put a tin cover over; 
dredge a heaping teaspoonful of flour into the butter in the 
pan, stir it with a spoon until it is brown, without burning, 
put to it a small teacup of boiling water, with a tablespoon- 
ful of currant jelly dissolved into it, stir it for a few min- 
utes, then strain it over the meat and serve. A glass of 
wine, with a tabjespoonful of white sugar dissolved in it, 
may be used for the gravy, instead of the 'jelly and water 
Venison may be boiled, and served with boiled vegetables, 
pickled beets, etc., and sauce. 

TO BOIL VENISON STEAKS. 

Let the gridiron become hot, rub the bars with a bit 
of suet, then lay on the steaks, having dipped them io 



70 THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 

rolled crackers or wheat flour, and set it over a bright, 
clear, but not fierce fire of coals; when one side is done, 
take the steak carefully over the steak dish, and hold it so 
that the blood may fall into the dish, then turn them on the 
gridiron, let it broil nicely; set a steak dish where it will be- 
come hot, put on a bit of better the size of an egg for each 
pound of venison, put to it a saltspoon of salt, and the same of 
black pepper, put to it a tablespoonful of currant jelly, made 
liquid with a tablespoonful of hoi water or wine, lay the 
steaks on, turn them once or twice in the gravy, and serve 
hoi Or they may be simply broiled, and served with but- 
ter, pepper, and salt; or having broiled oue side, and 
turned the steaks, lay thin slices of lemon over, and serve 
in the dish with the steaks. 

BEEFSTEAK AND KIDNEY PUDDING. 

Two pounds of rump-steak, two kidneys, seasoning to taste 
of salt and black pepper, suet crust made with milk (see 
Pastry), in the proportion of six ounces of suet to each 
one pound of flour. 

Mode: Procure some tender rump-steak (that which has 
been hung a little time), and divide it into pieces about 
an inch square, and cut each kidney into eight pieces. 
Line the dish (of which we have given an engraving) 
with crust made with suet and flour in the above pro- 
portion, leaving a small piece of crust to overlap the edge. 
Then cover the bottom with a portion of the steak and a 
few pieces of kidney; season with salt and pepper (some add 
a little flour to thicken the gravy, but it is not necessary), 
and then add another layer of steak kidney, and season- 
ing. Proceed in this manner till the dish is full, when 
pour in sufficient water to come within two inches of the 
top of the basin. Moisten the edges of the crust, cover the 
pudding over, press the two crusts together, that the gravy 



THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 71 

may not escape, and turn up the overhanging paste. Wring 
out a cloth in hot water, flour it, and tie up the pudding; 
put it into boiling water, and let it boil for at least four 
hours. If the water diminishes, always replenish with some, 
hot in a jug, as the pudding should be kept covered all the 
time, and not allowed to stop boiling. When the cloth is 
removed, cut a round piece in the top of the crust, to pre- 
vent the pudding bursting, and send it to table in the 
basin, either in an ornamental dish, or with a napkin 
pinned round it. Serve quickly, 



12 TME EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 



BREAKFAST DISHES. 



HASHED COLD MEAT. 

Take your bones, and stew them in a little water with an 
onion, some salt and pepper, and, if you like, a little savory 
herbs; when the goodness is all out of the bones, and it 
tastes nice, thicken the gravy with a teaspoonful of corn 
starch, and if it is not very strong put in a bit of butter, 
then place your stewpan on the hot hearth, and put in your 
slices of meat. "Warm but not boil. Serve with toasted 
bread. 

POTATO AND BEEF HASH. 

Mince some cold beef, a little fat with the lean, put to it 
as much cold boiled potatoes chopped as you like, (the 
quantity as of meat or twice as much), season with pepper 
and salt; add as much gravy or hot water as will make it 
moist, then put in a stewpan over a gentle fire; dredge in 
a small quantity of wheat flour; stir it about with a spoon, 
cover the stewpan, and let it simmer for half an hour — 
take care that it does not burn. Dish it with or without a 
slice of toast under it, for breakfast. This hash may be 
made without potatoes, if water is used instead of gravy, a 
bit of butter may be added, more or less, according to the 
proportion of fat with the lean meat 



THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOR. W 



DRIED BEEF. 

The most common way of serving dried or smoked beef 
is to shave it into thin slices or chips, raw; but a more sav- 
ory relish may be made of it with little trouble. Pat the 
slices of uncooked beef into a frying pan with just enough 
boiling water to cover them; set them over the fire for ten 
minutes, drain off all the water, and with a knife and fork 
cut the meat into small bits. Return to the pan, which 
should be hot, with a tablesnoonful of butter and a little 
pepper. Have ready some well-beaten eggs, allowing four 
to a half pound of beef; stir them into the pan with the 
minced meat and toss and stir the mixture for about two 
minutes. Send to table in a covered dish. 

CHICKEN CUTLETS. 

Season pieces of cold chicken or turkey with salt and 
pepper. Dip in melted butter; let this cool on the meat, 
and dip in beaten egg and in nne bread-crumbs. Fry in but- 
ter till a delicate brown. Serve on slices of hot toast, with 
either a white or curry sauce poured around. Pieces oi 
cold veal make a nice dish, if prepared in this manner. 

BEEF PATTIES. 

Chop fine some cold beef; beat two eggs and mix with 
the meat and add a little milk, melted butter, and salt and 
pepper. Make into rolls and fry. 

JELLIED VEAL. 

Boil the veal tender, pick it up fine, put in a mold, add 
the water it was boiled in. and set it in a cold place; season 
with salt and pepper to taste; a layer of hard-boiled eggs 
improves it 



74 THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 

RICE AND MEAT CROQUETTES. 

One cupful of boiled rice, one cupful of finely-chopped 
cooked meat — any kind; one teaspoonful of salt, a little 
pepper, two tablespoonfuls of butter, half a cupful of milk, 
one egg. Put the milk on to boil, and add the meat, rice 
and seasoning. When this boils, add the egg, well beaten; 
stir one minute. After cooling, shape, dip in egg and 
crumbs, and fry as before directed, 

AMERICAN TOAST. 

To one egg thoroughly beaten, put one cup of sweet milk 
and a little salt. Slice light bread and dip into the mix- 
ture, allowing each slice to absorb some of the milk; then 
brown on a hot buttered griddle; spread with butter, and 
serve hot. 

MEAT AND POTATOES. 

Mince beef or mutton, small, with onions, pepper and 
salt; add a little gravy, put into scalloped shells or small 
cups, making them three parts full, and fill them up with 
potatoes mashed with a little cream, put a bit of butter on 
the top and brown them in an oven. 

BREADED SAUSAGES. 

"Wipe the sausages dry. Dip them in beaten egg and 
bread-crumbs. Put them in the frying-basket and plunge 
into boiling fat. Cook ten minutes. Serve with a garnish 
of toasted bread and parsley. 

HAM CROQUETTES. 

One cupful of finely-chopped eooked ham, one of bread- 
crumbs, two of hot mashed potatoes, one large tablespoon- 
ful of butter, three eggs, a speck of Cayenne. Beat the 



THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 75 

ham, Cayenne, butter, and two of the eggs into the potato. 
Let the mixture cool slightly, and shape it like croquettes. 
Roll in the bread-crumbs, dip in beaten egg and again in 
crumbs, put in the frying-basket and plunge into boiling 
fat. Cook two minutes. Drain, and serve. 

A NICE BREAKFAST DISH. 

Chopped cold meat well seasoned; wet with gravy, if 
convenient, put it on a platter; then take cold rice made 
moist with milk and one egg, seasoned with pepper and salt; 
if not sufficient rice, add powdered bread-crumbs; place 
this around the platter quite thick; set in oven to heat 
ancf brown. 

CHICKEN IN JELLY. 

A little cold chicken (about one pint), one cupful of water 
or stock, one-fifth of a box of gelatine, half a teaspoonful 
of curry powder, salt, pepper. Cut the meat from the 
bones of a chicken left from dinner. Put the bones on with 
water to cover, and boil down to one cupful. Put the gela- 
tine to soak in one-fourth of a cupful of cold water. "When 
the stock is reduced as much as is necessary, strain and 
season. Add the curry and chicken. Season and simmer 
ten minutes; then add the gelatine, and stir on the table 
until it is dissolved. Turn all into a mold, and set away 
to harden. This makes a nice relish for tea or lunch. If 
you have mushrooms, omit the curry, and cut four of them 
into dice. Stir into the mixture while cooking. This dish 
can be varied by using the whites of hard-boiled eggs, or 
bits of boiled ham. To serve: Dip the mold in warm 
water, and turn out on the dish. Garnish with parsley. 

A GOOD DISH* 

Minced cold beef or lamb; if beef put in a pinch of pul- 
rerized cloves; if lamb, a pinch of summer savory to season 



7& THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 

it, very little pepper and some salt, and put it in a baking* 
dish; mash potatoes and mix them with cream and butter 
and a little salt, and spread them over the meat; beat up an 
egg with cream or milk, a very little, spread it over the 
potatoes, and bake it a short time, sufficient to warm il 
through and brown the potatoes, 



TttE BVEBYDAY COOK-BOOK. tt 



POULTRY, GAME, ETC. 



In choosing poultry, the best way to determine whether 
it is young, is to try the skin under the leg or wing; if it is 
easily broken, it is young; or, turn the wing backwards; if 
the joint yields readily, it is tender; a fat fowl is best for 
any purpose. 

After a chicken or fowl is killed, plunge it into a pot of 
scalding hot water; then pluck off the feathers, taking care 
not to tear the skin; when it is picked clean, roll up a sheet 
of vhite wrapping paper, set fire to it, singe off all the 
hairs. Poultry should be carefully picked, and nicely singed. 

If a fowl is fresh killed, the vent will be close, and the 
flesh have a pleasant smell. 

ROAST TURKEY. 

Carefully pluck the bird, singe it with white paper, and 
wipe it thoroughly with a cloth; draw it, preserve the liver 
and gizzard, and be particular not to break t*ie gall-bag, as 
no washing will remove the bitter taste it imparts where it 
once touches. Wash it inside well, and wipe it thoroughly 
with a dry cloth; the outside merely requires wiping nicely. 
Cut off the neck close to the back, but leave enough of the 
crop-skin to turn over; break the leg-bones close below the 
knee; draw out the strings from the thighs, and flatten the 
breast-bone to make it look plump. Have ready your dressing 



IB THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 

of broad-crumbs, mixed with butter, pepper, salt, thyme or 
sweet marjoram; fill the breast with this, and sew the neck 
over to the back. Be particular that the turkey is firmly 
trussed. Dredge it lightly with flour, and put a piece of 
butter into the basting-ladle; as the butter melts, baste the 
bird with it. When of a nice brown and well-frothed, 
serve with a tureen of good brown gravy and one of bread- 
sauce. The liver should be put under one pinion, and the 
gizzard under the other. Fried sausages are a favorite ad- 
dition toroastrturkey; they make a pretty garnish, besides 
adding much to the flavor. When these are not at hand, 
a few force-meat balls should be placed round the dish as a 
garnish. Turkey may also be stuffed with sausage-meat, 
and a chestnut force-meat with the same sauce is, by many 
persons, much esteemed as an accompaniment to this fav- 
orite dish. 

Second Recipe. — After drawing and cleansing the turkey, 
prepare a dressing of chopped . sausage and bread-crumbs, 
mixing in butter, pepper, salt and thyme to flavor. Fill 
the craw and the body of the turkey with this, and sew up 
carefully. Dredge with flour and put in the oven to roast, 
basting freely first with butter and water, then with the 
gravy from the pan. The time it takes to roast will depend 
both on the age and the weight of the turkey. If you have a 
good fire, you will be safe to allow ten minutes or so to the 
pound. Roast to a fine brown, and serve with the 
chopped giblets, which should be well stewed; add cranberry 
sauce* 

BOILED TURKEY. 

Hen turkeys are the best for boiling. They are the 
whitest, and if nicely kept, tenderest. Of course the sinews 
must be drawn, and they ought to be trussed with the legs 
out, so as to be easily carved. Take care to clean the ani- 



THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK, 79 

mal well after it has been singed. Place the fowl in a suf- 
ficiently large pot with clean water sufficient to cover it, and 
little more ; let the fire be a clear one, but not too fierce, 
as the slower the turkey boils the plumper it will be. 
Skim carefully and constantly, and simmer for two hours 
and a half in the case of a large fowl, and two hours for a 
smaller beast, and from an hour and ten to forty minutes for 
still smaller turkeys. Some people boil their turkeys in a 
floured cloth. I don't; the whiteness being mostly in the 
animal itself. My stuffing for a boiled turkey is thought 
good. I prepare it of crumbs of stale bread, with a little 
marrow or butter, some finely-shred parsley, and two dozen 
of small oysters, minus their beards, of course, and neatly 
trimmed. Stuff with this and a little chopped ham in ad- 
dition, if desired. 

TO ROAST A FOWL OR CHICKEN. 

Have a bright, clear, and steady fire for roasting poultry; 
prepare it as directed; spit it, put a pint of hot water in the 
dripping-pan, add to it a small tablespoonful of salt, and a 
small teaspoonful of pepper, baste frequently, and let it 
roast quickly, without scorching; when nearly done, put a 
piece of butter the size of a large egg to the water in the 
pan; when it melts, baste with it, dredge a little flour over, 
baste again, and let it finish; half an hour will roast a full 
grown chicken, if the fire is right. When done take it up, 
let the giblets (heart, liver, and gizzard) boil tender, and 
chop them very fine, and put them in the gravy; add a 
tablespoonful of browned flour and a bit of butter, stir it 
over the fire for a few minutes, then serve in a gravy tureen. 
Or put the giblets in the pan and let them roast. 



80 THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 



BOILED CHICKENS. 

Clean, wash, and stuff as for roasting. Baste a floured 
cloth around each, and put into a pot with enough boiling 
water to cover them well. The hot water cooks the skin at 
once, and prevents the escape of the juices. The broth 
will not be so rich as if the fowls are put on in cold water, 
but this is proof that the meat will be more nutritious and 
better flavored. Stew very slowly, for the first half hour 
especially. Boil an hour or more, guiding yourself by size 
and toughness. Serve with egg or bread sauce. 

BROILED CHICKEN. 

Prepare in the same way as for boiling, cut them in two 
through the back, and flatten them; place on a cold grid- 
iron over a nice red fire. After a little time, when they 
have become thoroughly hot, set them on a plate or other 
dish, and lard them well with a piece of butter; pepper and 
salt them to taste, chiefly on the inside, then place them on 
the brander and continue turning till done — they will take 
fully twenty minutes. Serve hot, with a little dab of butter 
and plenty of stewed mushrooms — a delightful dish. 

FRIED CHICKEN. 

Cut the chicken in pieces, lay it in salt and water, which 
chacge several times; roll each piece in flour; fry in very 
hot lard or butter; season with salt and pepper; fry pars- 
ley with them also. Make a gravy of cream seasoned with 
salt, pepper, and a little mace, thickened with a little flour 
in the pan in which the chickens were fried, pouring off the 
lard. 



TKE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. ttl 



FRICASSEE OP CHICKEN. 

Cut into joints, scald and skin, place in a stewpan, with 
two raw onions cut into eight parts, a little chopped pars- 
ley, salt and pepper, and the least squeeze of lemon-juice. 
Add a bit of butter as large as an egg, and fill in a pint of 
water. Stew for an hour under a very close lid, then lift 
and strain off the gravy, into which beat gradually a tea- 
cupful of cream and the yolks of two eggs; heat up the 
gravy, taking care that it does not boil, and pour it over the 
fricassee. 

TO CURRY CHICKEN. 

Slice an onion and brown in a little butter; add a spoon- 
ful of curry powder; allow it to remain covered for a few 
minutes to cook; add a little more butter and put in chicken, 
veal, etc., etc. ; cut up small, thicken with a little flour. This 
is excellent. 

PRESSED CHICKEN. 

Cut up the fowls and place in a kettle with a tight cover, 
so as to retain the steam ; put about two teacups of water 
and plenty of salt and pepper over the chicken, then let it 
cook until the meat cleaves easily from the bones; cut or 
chop all the meat (freed from skin, bone and gristle) about 
as for chicken salad; season well, put into a dish and pour 
the remnant of the juice in which it was cooked over it. 
This will jelly when cold, and can then be sliced or set on 
the table in shape. Nice for tea or lunch. The knack of 
making this simple dish is not having too much water; it 
will not jelly if too weak, or if the water is allowed to boil 
away entirely while cooking. 



82 THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 



CHICKEN POT-PIE. 

Skin and cut up the fowls into joints, and put the neck, 
legs and back bones in a stew pan, with a little water, an 
onion, a bunch of savory herbs, and a blade* of mace; let 
these stew for an hour, and, when done, strain off the 
liquor; this is for gravy. Put a layer of fowl at the bottom 
of a pie-dish, then a layer of ham, then one of force-meat 
and hard-boiled eggs, cut in rings; between the layers put 
a seasoning of pounded mace, nutmeg, pepper and salt. 
Pour in about half a pint of water, border the edge of dish 
with puff-crust, put on the cover, ornament the top and 
glaze it by brushing over it the yolk of an egg. Bake for 
about an hour and a half, and, when done, pour in at the 
top the gravy made from the bones. 

A CHICKEN SALAD. 

Take a fine white bunch of celery (four or five heads), 
scrape and wash it white; reserve the delicate green leaves; 
shred the white part like straws, lay this in a glass, or white 
china dish, in the form of a nest. Mince all the white 
meat of a boiled, or while stewed fowl, without the skin, 
and put it in the nest. 

Make a salad dressing thus: Rub the yolks of two hard- 
boiled eggs to a smooth paste, with a dessertspoonful of 
salad oil, or melted butter; add to it two teaspoonfuls of 
made mustard, and a small teaspoonful of fine white sugar, 
and put to it gradually (stirring it in) a large cup of strong 
vinegar. 

Make a wreath of the most delicate leaves of the celery, 
around the edge of the nesfc, between it and the chicken; 
pour the dressing over the chicken, when ready to serve; if 



THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 83 

the dressing is poured over too soon it will discolor tho 
celery. 

White heart lettuce may be used for tlie nest instead oi 
celery. 

JELLIED CHICKEN. 

Boil a fowl until it will slip easily from the bones; let tho 
water be reduced to about one pint in boiling; pick ilia 
meat from the bones in good sized pieces, taking out all 
gristle, fat, and bones; place in a wet mold; skim the fat 
from the liquor; a little butter; pepper and salt to tha 
taste, and one-half ounce of gelatine. "When this dissolves, 
pour it hot over the chicken. The liquor must be seasoned 
pretty high, for the chicken absorbes. 

CHICKEN PATES. 

Mince chicken that has been previously roasted or boiled, 
and season well; stir into this a sauce made of hatf a pint 
of milk, into which while boiling a teaspoonful of corn 
starch has been added to thicken, season with butter, about 
a teaspoonful, and salt and pepper to taste. Have ready 
small pate pans lined with a good puff paste. Bake the 
crust in a brisk oven; then fill the pans and set in the oven 
a few minutes to brown very slightly. 

SAGE-AND-ONION STUFFING, FOR GEESE, 
DUCKS AND PORK. 

Four large onions, ten sage-leaves, one-quarter pound of 
bread-crumbs, one and one-half ounce of butter, salt and 
pepper to taste, one egg. Peel the onions, put them into 
boiling water, let them simmer for five minutes or rather 
longer, and, just before they are taken out, put in the 
sage-leaves for a minute or two to take off their raw- 
ness, Chop both these very fine, add the bread, season- 



84 THE EVER YD A T COOK BOOK. 

ing, and butter, and work the whole together with the yolk 
of an egg, when the stuffing will be ready for use. It 
should be rather highly seasoned, and the sage-leaves should 
be very finely chopped. Mkiny cooks do not parboil the 
onions in the manner just stated, but merely use them raw. 
The stuffing then, however, is not nearly so mild, and, to 
many tastes, its strong flavor would be very objectionable. 
When made for goose, a portion of the liver of the bird, 
simmered for a few minutes and very finely minced, is 
frequently added to this stuffing; and where economy is 
studied, the egg may be dispensed with. 

TO ROAST A GOOSE. 

Having drawn and singed the goose, wipe out the inside 
with a cloth, and sprinkle in some pepper and salt. Make 
a stuffing of four good-sized onions, minced fine, and half 
their quantity of green sage-leaves, minced also, a large tea- 
cupful of grated bread-crumbs, a piece of butter the size of 
a walnut, and the beaten yolks of two eggs, with a little 
pepper and salt. Mix the whole together, and incorporate 
them well. Put the stuffing into the goose, and press it in 
hard; but do not entirely fill up the cavity, as the mixture 
will swell in cooking. Tie the goose securely round with a 
greased or wetted string; and paper the breast to prevent 
it from scorching. The fire must be brisk and well kept up. 
It will require from two hours to two and a half to roast. 
Baste it at first with a little salt and water, and then with 
its own gravy. Take off the paper when the goose is about 
half done, and dredge it with a little flour towards the last. 
Having parboiled the liver and heart, chop them and put 
them into the gravy, which must be skimmed well and 
thickened with a little brown flour. 

Send apple sauce to table with the goose; also mashed 
potatoes. 




Boiled Rabbit 



POULTRY & GAM£ 



THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 85 

A goo/3e may be stuffed entirely with potatoes, boiled and 
mashed with milk, butter, pepper and salt. 

You may make a gravy of the giblets, that is the neck, 
pinions, iiver, heart and gizzard, stewed in a little water, 
thickened with butter, rolled in flour, and seasoned with 
pepper and salt. Before you send it to table, take out all 
but the liver and heart; mince them and leave them in the 
gravy. This gravy is by many preferred to that which comes 
from the goose in roasting. It is well to have both. 

If a goose is old it is useless to cook it, as when hard and 
tough it cannot be eaten. 

ROAST DUCKS. 

Wash and dry the ducks carefully. Make a stuffing of 
sage and onion; insert, and sew up completely that the 
seasoning may not escape. If tender, ducks do not re- 
quire more than an hour to roast. Keep them well basted, 
and a few minutes before serving, dredge lightly with 
flour, to make them froth and look plump. Send to table 
hot, with a good brown gravy poured not round but over 
them. Accompany with currant jelly, and, if in season, 
green peas. 

ROAST PIGEONS. 

Clean the pigeons, and stuff them the same as chickens; 
leave the feet on, dip them into scalding water, strip off the 
skin, cross them, and tie them together below the breast- 
bone; or cut them off; the head may remain on; if so, dip 
it in scalding water, and pick it clean; twist the wings 
back, put the liver between the right wing and the body, 
and turn the head under the other; rub the outside of each 
bird with a mixture of pepper and salt; spit them, and put 
some water in the dripping-pan; for each bird put a bit of 



86 THE EVER YD AY COOK-BOOK. 

butter the size of a small egg, put them before a hot fire, 
and let them roast quickly; baste frequently; half an hour 
will do them; when nearly done, dredge them with wheat 
flour and baste with the butter in the pan; turn them, that 
they may be nicely and easily browned; when done, take 
them up, set the pan over the fire, make a thin batter of a 
teaspoonful of wheat flour, and cold water; when the gravy 
is boiling hot, stir it in; continue to stir it for a few minutes, 
until it is brown, then pour it through a gravy sieve into a 
tureen, and serve with the pigeons. 

TO MAKE A BIRD'S NEST. 

Boil some yellow macaroni gently, until it is quite swelled 
out and tender, then cut it in pieces, the length of a finger, 
and lay them on a dish like a straw nest. 

Truss pigeons with the heads on, (haviDg scalded and 
picked them clean), turned under the left wing, leave the 
feet on, and having stewed them, arrange them as in a nest; 
pour the gravy over and serve. 

The nest may be made of boiled rice, or bread cut in 
pieces, the length and thickness of a finger, and fried a nice 
brown in hot lard, seasoned with pepper and salt. Or, 
make it of bread, toasted a yellow brown. Any small birds 
may be stewed or roasted, and served in this way. 

PIGEONS IN JELLY. 

"Wash and truss one dozen pigeons. Put them in a kettle 
with four pounds of the shank of veal, six cloves, twenty- 
five pepper-corns, an onion that has been fried in one spoon- 
ful of butter, one stalk of celery, a bouquet of sweet herbs 
and four and a half quarts of water. Have the veal shank 
broken in small pieces. As soon as the contents of the 
kettle come to a boil, skim carefully, and set for three hours 
?k here they will just simmer. After they have been cooking 



THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 87 

one hour, add two tablespoonfuls of salt "When the pigeons 
are done, take them up, being careful not to break them, 
and remove the strings. Draw the kettle forward, where it 
will boil rapidly, and keep there for forty minutes; then 
strain the Lquor through a napkin, and taste to sea if sea- 
soned enough. The water should have boiled down to two 
and a half quarts. Have two molds that will each hold six 
pigeons. Put a thin tayer of the jelly in these, and set on 
ice to harden. When hard, arrange the pigeons in them, 
and cover with the jelly, which must be cold, but liquid. 
Place in the ice-chest for six, or, better still, twelve hours. 
There should be only one layer of the pigeons in the 
mold. 

To serve: Dip the mold in a basin of warm water for 
one minute, and turn on a cold dish. Garnish with pick- 
led beets and parsley. A Tartare sauce can be served with 
this dish. 

If squabs are used, two hours will cook them. All small 
birds, as well as partridge, grouse, etc., can be prepared in 
the same manner. Remember that the birds must be cooked 
tender, and that the liquor must be so reduced that it will 
become jellied. 

PIGEON PIE. 

Clean and truss three or four pigeons, rub the outside 
and in with a mixture of pepper and salt; rub the inside 
with a bit of butter, and fill it with a bread-and-butter stuf- 
fing, or mashed potatoes; sew up the slit, butter the sides of 
a tin basin or pudding-dish, and line (the sides only) with 
pie paste, rolled to quarter of an inch thickness; lay the 
birds in; for three large tame pigeons, cut quarter of a 
pound of sweet butter and put it over them, strew over a 
large teaspoonful of salt, and a small teaspoonful of pepper, 
with a bunch of finely-cut parsley, if liked; dredge a large 
tablespoonful of wheat flour over; put in water to nearly £U 



88 THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 

the pie; lay skewers across the top, cover with a puff paste 
crust; cut a slit in the middle, ornament the edge with 
leaves, braids, or shells of paste, and put it in a moderately 
hot or quick oven, for one hour; when nearly done, brush 
the top over with the yolk of an egg beaten with a little milk, 
and finish. The pigeons for this pie may be cut in two or 
more pieces, if preferred. 
Any small birds may be done in this manner. 

WILD DUCKS. 

Nearly all wild ducks are liable to have a fishy flavor, and 
when handled by inexperienced cooks, are sometimes un- 
eatable from this cause. Before roasting them guard 
against this by parboiling them with a small carrot, peeled, 
put within each. This will absorb the unpleasant taste. 
An onion will have the same effect; but unless you mean to 
use onion in the s tuning, the carrot is preferable. In my 
own kitchen, I usually put in the onion, considering a sus- 
picion of garlic a desideratum in roast duck, whether wild 
or tame. 

ROAST WILD DUCK. 

Parboil as above directed; throw away the carrot or 
onion, lay in fresh water half an hour; stuff with bread- 
crumbs seasoned with pepper, salt, sage, and onion, and 
roast until brown and tender, basting for half the time with 
butter and water, then with the drippings. Add to the 
gravy, when you have taken up the ducks, a teaspoonful of 
currant jelly, and a pinch of Cayenne. Thicken with 
browned flour and serve in a tureen. 

WILD TURKEY. 

Draw and wash the inside very carefully, as with all game. 
Domestic fowls are, or should be, kept up without eating 



THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 89 

for at least twelve hours before they are killed; but we must 
shoot wild when we can get the chance, and of course it 
often happens that their crops are distended by a recent 
hearty meal of rank or green food. Wipe the cavity with a 
dry, soft cloth before you stuff. Have a rich force-meat, bread- 
crumbs, some bits of fat pork, chopped fine, pepper and salt. 
Moisten with milk, and beat in an egg and a couple of 
tablespoonfuls of melted butter. Baste with butter and 
water for the first hour, then three or four times with gravy; 
lastly, five or six times with melted butter. A generous 
and able housekeeper told me once that she always allowed 
a pound of butter for basting a large wild turkey. This 
was an extravagant quantity, but the meat is drier than 
that of the domestic fowl, and not nearly so fat. Dredge 
with flour at the last, froth with butter, and when he is of a 
tempting brown, serve. Skim the gravy, add a little hot 
water, pepper, thicken with the giblets chopped fine and 
browned flour, boil up, and pour into a tureen. At the 
South the giblets are not put in the gravy, but laid whole, 
one under each wing, when the turkey is dished. Garnish 
with small fried sausages, not larger than a dollar, crisped 
parsley between them. Send around currant jelly and 
cranberry sauce with it. 

TO ROAST SNIPES, WOODCOCKS, OR 
PLOVERS. 

Pick them immediately; wipe them, and season them 
slightly with pepper and salt. Cut as maiy slices of bread 
as you have birds. Toast them brown, butter them, and 
lay them in the pan. Dredge the birds with flour, and put 
them in the oven with a brisk fire. Baste them with lard 
or fresh butter. They will be done in twenty or thirty 
minutes. Serve them up laid on tbe toast, and garnish with 
sliced orange, or with orange jelly. 



90 T&E EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 

ROAST PARTRIDGE. 

Choose young birds, with dark-colored bills and yellowish 
legs, and let them hang a few days, or there will be no flavor 
to the flesh, nor will it be tender. The time they should 
be kept entirely depends on the taste of those for whom 
they are intended, as what some persons would consider 
delicious, would be to others disgusting and offensive. 
They may be trussed with or without the head, the latter 
mode is now considered the most fashionable. Pluck, 
draw, and wipe the partridge carefully inside and out; cut 
off the head, leaving sufficient skin on the neck to skewer 
baok; bring the legs close to the breast, between it and the 
side-bones, and pass a skewer . through the pinions and 
thick part of the thighs. "When the head is left on, it 
should be brought round and fixed on to the point of the 
skewer. When the bird is firmly and plum ply trussed, roast it 
before a nice bright fire ; keep it well basted, and a few minutes 
before serving, flour and froth it well. Dish it, and serve 
with gravy and bread-sauce, and send to table hot and 
quickly. A little of the gravy should be poured over the 
bird. 

ROAST QUAIL. 

Pluck and draw the birds, rub a little butter over them, 
tie a strip of bacon over the breasts, and set them in the 
oven for twenty or twenty-five minutes. 

ROAST PRAIRIE CHICKEN. 

The bird being a little strong, and its flesh when cooked 
a little dry, it should be either larded or wide strips of 
bacon or pork placed over its breast. A mild seasoned 
stuffing will improve the flavor of old birds. Duat. a little 
flour over them, baste occasionally, and serve. Pheasants 
may be managed in the same manner. 



THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 61 



LARDED GROUSE. 

Clean and wash the grouse. Lard the breast and legs. 
Put a small skewer into the legs and through the tail. Tie 
firmly with twine. Dredge with salt, and rub the breast 
with soft butter; then dredge thickly with flour. Put into 
a quick oven. If to be very rare, cook twenty minutes; if 
wished better done, thirty minutes. The former time, as a 
general thing, suits gentlemen better, but thirty minutes is 
preferred by ladies. If the birds are cooked in a tin- 
kitchen, it should be for thirty or thirty-five minutes. When 
done, place on a hot dish, on which has been spread bread- 
sauce. Sprinkle fried crumbs over both grouse and 
sauce. Garnish with parsley. The grouse may, instead, 
be served on a hot dish, with the parsley garnish, and the 
sauce and crumbs served in separate dishes. The first 
method is the better, however, as you get in the sauce all 
the gravy that comes from the birds. 

PORK, HAMS, ETC. 

To Choose Pork. — If the rind of pork is tough and 
thick, and cannot easily be impressed with the finger, it 
is old. 

If fresh, the flesh will look cool and smooth; when 
moist or clammy it is stale. The knuckle is the first to 
become tainted. 

Pork is often what is called measly, and is then almost 
poisonous; measly pork may easily be detected, the fat being 
full of small kernels. Swill or still-fed pork is not fit for 
curing; either dairy or corn-fed is good. 

Fresh pork is in season from October to April. 

In cutting up a large hog, it is first cut in two down the 
back and belly. The chine or back-bone should be cut out 
from each side the whole length, and is either boiled or 



02 THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 

roasted The chine is considered the prime part. Tie 
sides of the hog are made into bacon, and the inside or riba 
is cut with very little meat; this is the spare-rib, 

CURING HAMS. 

Hang up the hams a week or ten days, the longer the 
tenderer and better, if kept perfectly sweet; mix for each 
good-sized ham, one teacup of salt, one tablespoon of 
molasses, one ounce of saltpetre; lay the hams in a clean 
dry tub; heat the mixture and rub well into the hams, 
especially around the bones and recesses; repeat the process 
once or twice, or until all the mixture is used; then let the 
hams He two or three days, when they must be put for three 
weeks in brine strong enough to bear an egg; then soak 
eight hours in cold water; hang up to dry in the kitchen or 
other more convenient place for a week or more; smoke 
from three to five days, being careful not to heat the hams. 
Corn-cobs and apple-tree wood are good for smoking. The 
juices are better retained if smoked with the hock down. 
Tie up carefully in bags for the summer. 

TO ROAST A LEG OF PORK. 

Take a sharp knife and score the skin across in narrow 
strips (you may cross it again so as to form diamonds) and 
rub in some powdered sage. Raise the skin at the knuckle 
and put in a stuffing of minced onion and sage, bread- 
crumbs, pepper, salt, and beaten yolk of egg. Fasten it 
down with a buttered string, or with skewers. You may 
make deep incisions in the meat of the large end of the leg, 
and stuff them also, pressing in the filling very hard. Rub 
a little sweet oil all over the skm with a brush or a goose 
feather, to make it crisp and of a handsome brown. A leg 
of pork will require from three to four hours to roast 



THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 93 

Moisten it all the time by brushing it with sweet oil, or with 
fresh butter tied in a rag. To baste it with its own drip- 
pings will make the skin tough and hard. Skim the fat care- 
fully from the gravy, which should be thickened with a little 
flour. 

A roast leg of pork should always be accompanied by 
apple sauce, and by mashed potatoes and mashed turnips. 

PORK AND BEANS. 

Pick over carefully a quart of beans and let them soak 
over night; in the morning wash and drain in another 
water, put on to boil in cold water with half a teaspoon of 
soda; boil about thirty minutes (when done, the skin of a 
bean will crack if taken out and blown upon), drain, and 
put in an earthen pot first a slice of pork and then the 
beans, with two or three tablespoons of molasses. "When 
the beans are in the pot, put in the centre half or three- 
fourths of a pound of well-washed salt pork with the rind 
scored in slices or squares, and uppermost; season with 
pepper and salt if needed; cover all over with hot water, 
and bake six hours or longer in a moderate oven, adding 
hot water as needed; they cannot be baked too long. Keep 
covered so that they will not burn on the top, but remove 
cover an hour or two before serving, to brown the top and 
crisp the pork. 

PORK SAUSAGES. 

Take such a proportion of fat and lean pork as you like; 
chop it quite fine, and for every ten pounds of meat take 
four ounces of fine salt, and one of fine pepper; dried sage, 
or lemon thyme, finely powdered, may be added if liked; a 
teaspoonful of sage, and the same of ground allspice and 
cloves, to each ten pounds of meat. Mix the seasoning 
through the meat; pack it down in stone pots or put in 



94 THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 

muslin bags. Or fill the hog's or ox's guts, having first 
made them perfectly clean, thus: empty them, cut them in 
lengths, and lay them three or four days in salt and water, 
or weak lime water; turn them insido out once or twice, 
scrape them; then rinse them, and nil with the meat. 

If you do not use the skins or guts, make the sausage 
meat up to the size and shape of sausages, dip them in 
beaten egg, and then into wheat flour, or rolled crackers, 
or simply into wheat flour, and fry in hot lard. Turn them, 
that every side may be a fine color. Serve hot, with boiled 
potatoes or hominy; either taken from the gravy, or after 
they are Med, pour a little boiling water into the gravy in 
the pan, and pour it over them; or first dredge in a tea- 
spoonful of wheat flour, stir it until it is smooth and brown; 
then add a little boiling water, let it boil up once, then put 
it in the dish with the sausages. 

Chopped onion and green parsley may be added to the 
sausage meat, when making ready to fry. 

Or sausage meat may be tied in a muslin bag, and boiled, 
and served with vegetables; or let it become cold, and cut 
in slices. 

PORK CHOPS, STEAKS AND CUTLETS. 

Fry or stew pork chops, after taking off the rind or skin, 
the same as for veal. 

Cutlets and steaks are also fried, broiled, or stewed, the 
same as veal. 

ROAST PIG. 

Thoroughly clean the pig, then rinse it in cold water, 
wipe it dry; then rub the inside with a mixture of salt and 
pepper, and if liked, a little pounded and sifted sage; nidie 
a stuffing thus: cut some wheat bread in slices half an inch 
thick, spread butter on to half its thickness, sprinkled with 



THE EVERYDAY COOK BOOK. 95 

pepper and salt, and if liked, a little pounded eage and 
minced onion; pour enough hot water over the bread to 
make it moist or soft, then fill the body with it and sew it 
together, or tie a cord around it to keep the dressing in, 
then spit it; put a pint of water in the dripping-pan, put 
into it a tablespoonful of salt, aud a teaspoonful of pep- 
per, let the fire be hotter at each end than in the middle, 
put the pig down at a little distance from the fire, baste it 
as it begins to roast, and gradually draw it nearer; continue 
to baste occasionally; turn it that it may be evenly cooked; 
when the eyes drop out it is done; or a better rule is to 
judge by the weight, fifteen minute3 for each pound of 
meat, if the fire is right. 

Have a bright clear fire, with a bed of coals at the bot- 
tom; first put the roast at a little distance, and gradually 
draw it nearer; when the pig is done stir up the fire, take a 
coarse cloth with a good bit of butter in it, and wet the 
pig all over with it, and when the crackling is crisp take it 
up; dredge a little flour into the gravy, let it boil up once, 
and having boiled the heart, liver, etc., tender, and chopped 
it fine, add it to the gravy, give it one boil, then serve. 

PIG'S CHEEK, 

Is smoked and boiled like ham with vegetables; boiled 
cabbage or fried parsnips may be served with it. 

ROAST SPARE-RIB. 

Trim off the rough ends neatly, crack the ribs across the 
middle, rub with salt and sprinkle with pepper, fold over, 
stuff with turkey-dressing, sew up tightly, place in dripping- 
pan with pint of water, baste frequently, turning over once 
bo as to bake both sides equally until a rich brown. 



9d THB EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 



PORK FRITTERS. 

Have at hand a thick batter of Indian meal and flour; 
cut a few slices of pork and fry them in the frying-pan until 
the fat is fried out; cut a few more slices of the pork, dip 
them in the batter, and drop them in the bubbling fat, sea- 
soning with salt and pepper; cook until light brown, and 
eat while hot. 

BAKED HAM. 

Cover your ham with cold water, and simmer gently just 
long enough to loosen the skin, so that it can bo pulled off. 
This will probably be from two to three hours, according to 
the size of your ham. When skinned, put in a dripping- 
pan in the oven, pour ov»r it a teacup of vinegar and one 
of hot water, in which dissolve a teaspoonful of English 
mustard, bake slowly, basting with the liquid, for two hours. 
Then cover the ham all over to the depth of one inch with 
coarse brown sugar, press it down firmly, and do not baste 
again until the sugar has formed a thick crust, which it will 
soon do in a very slow oven. Let it remain a full hour in, 
after covering with the sugar, until it becomes a rich golden 
brown. When done, drain from the liquor in the pan and 
put on a dish to cool. When it is cool, but not cold, press 
by turning another flat dish on top, with a weight over it. 
You will never want to eat ham cooked in any other way 
when you have tasted this, and the pressing makes it cut 
firmly for sandwiches or slicing. 

TO BOIL A HAM. 

Wash thoroughly with a cloth. Select a small size to 
boil, put it in a large quantity of cold water, and boil 
twenty minutes for each pound, allowing it to boil slowly; 



THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK, 07 

'ake off the rind while hot and put in, the oven to brown 
half an hour; remove and trim. 

TO BROIL HAM. 

Cut some slices of ham, quarter of an inch thick, lay 
them in hot water for half an hour, or give them a scalding 
in a pan over the fire; then take them up, and lay them on a 
gridiron, over bright coals; when the outside is browned, 
turn the other; then take the slices on a hot dish, butter 
them freely, sprinkle pepper over and serve. Or, after 
scalding them, wipe them dry, dip each slice in beaten eg£, 
and then into rolled crackers, and fry or broil. 

FRIED HAM AND EGGS (a Breakfast Dish). 

Cut the ham into slices, and take care that they are of 
me same thickness in every part. Cut off the rind, and if 
the ham should be particularly hard and salt, it will be 
found an improvement to soak it for about ten minutes in 
hot water, and then dry it in a cloth. Put it into a cold 
frying-pan, set it over the fire, and turn the slices three or 
four times whilst they are cooking. When done, place them 
on a dish, which should be kept hot in front of the fire 
during the time the eggs are being poached. Poach the 
eggs; slip them on to the slices of ham, and serve 
quickly. 

HAM TOAST. 

Mince finely a quarter of a pound of cooked ham with an 
anchovy boned and washed; add a little Cayenne and 
pounded mace; beat up two eggs; mix with the mince, 
and add just sufficient milk to keep it moist; make it 
quite hot, and serve on small rounds of toast or fried 
bread. 

I 



ea THE EVERYDAY COQK-BQGK. 



HEAD CHEESE. 

Hsvfeg thoroughly cleaned a hog's head cr jfe*s k>ftd, 
tylit it in twQwith a sharp knifa t take out the e^es, tekq out 
the brains, cut off the ears, vA pour scalding vater over 
them and the head, and cc/ape them clean. Cut off any 
part of the nose which ni&y be discolored fco a3 not to be 
scraped clean; then rinse all in cold water, and put it iato a 
large kettle with hot (not boiling) water to cover it, and set 
the kettle (having sobered it) over the fire; lot it boil gently s 
taking off tha ec-u:j?. as it rises; when boiled so that the 
bones leave the, xr^zi readily, take it from the water with a 
skimmer into % large Trooden bowl or tray; take from it 
every particle ot bone; chop the meat small and season to 
taste with salt and pepper, and if liked, a little chopped 
sage or thyme; spread a cloth in a colander or sieve; set it 
in a deep dish, and put the meat in, then fold the cloth 
closely over it, lay a weight on which may press equally the 
whole surface (a sufficiently large plate will serve). Let 
the weight be more or less heavy, according as you may 
wish the cheese to be fat or lean ; a heavy weight by press- 
ing out the fat will of course leave the cheese lean. When 
cold, take the weight off; take it from the colander or sieve, 
scrape off whatever fat may be found on the outside of the 
cloth, and keep the cheese in the cloth in a cool place, to be 
eaten sliced thin, with or without mustard, and vinegar or 
catsup. After the water is cold in which the head was 
boiled, take off the fat from it, and whatever may have 
drained from the sieve, or colander, and cloth; put it to- 
gether in some clean water, give it one boil; then strain it 
through a cloth, and set it to become cold; then take off the 
cake of fat. It is fit for any use. 



THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 9% 



PIGS' FEET SOUSED. 

Scald and scrape clean the feet; if the covering of the 
toes will not come off without, singe them in hot embers, 
until they are loose, then take them off. Many persons lay 
them in weak lime water to whiten them. Having scraped 
them clean and white, wash them and put them in a pot of 
hot (not boiling) water, with a little salt, and let them 
boil gently, until by turning a fork in the flesh it will easily 
break and the bones are loosened. Take off the scum as it 
rises. When done, take them from the hot water into cold 
vinegar, enough to cover them, add to it one-third as much 
of the water in which they were boiled; add whole pepper 
and allspice, with cloves and mace if liked, put a cloth and 
a tight-fitting cover over the pot or jar. Soused feet may 
be eaten cold from the vinegar, split in two from top to toe, 
or having split them, dip them in wheat flour and fry in hot 
lard, or broil and butter them. In either case, let them be 
nicely browned. 

TO MAKE LARD. 

Take the leaf fat from the inside of a bacon hog, cut it 
small, and put it in an iron kettle, which must be perfectly 
free from any musty taste; set it over a steady, moderate 
fire, until nothing but scraps. remain of the meat; the heat 
must be kept up, but gentle, that it may not burn the lard; 
spread a coarse cloth in a wire sieve, and strain the liquid 
into tin basins which will hold two or three quarts; squeeze 
out all the fat from the scraps. When the lard in the pang 
is cold, press a piece of new muslin close upon it, trim it 
off at the edge of the pan, and keep it in a cold place. Or 
it may be kept in wooden kegs with close covers. Lard 
made with one-third as much beef suet as fat is supposed 
by many persons to keep better, 



100 THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 



TO TELL GOOD EGGS. 

Put them in water — if the large end turns up, they are 
not fresh. This is an infallible rule to distinguish a good 
egg from a bad one. 

KEEPING EGGS FRESH. 

"All it is necessary to do to keep eggs through summer 
is to procure small, clean wooden or tin vessels, holdiDg 
from ten to twenty gallons, and a barrel, more or less, of 
common, fine-ground land plaster. Begin by putting on 
the bottom of the vessel two or three inches of plaster, and 
then, having fresh eggs, with the yolks unbroken, set them 
up, small end down, close to each other, but not crowding, 
and make the first layer. Then add more plaster and 
enough so the eggs will stand upright, and set up the sec- 
ond layer; then another deposit of plaster, followed by a 
layer of eggs, till the vessel is full, and finish by covering 
the top layer with plaster. Eggs so packed and subjected 
to a temperature of at least 85 degrees, if not 90 degrees, 
during August and September, came out fresh, and if one 
could be certain of not having a temperature of more than 
75 degrees to contend with, I am confident eggs could be 
kept by these means all the year round. Observe that the 
eggs must be fresh laid, the yolks unbroken, the packing 
done in small vessels, and with clean, fine-ground land plas- 
ter, and care must be taken that no egg so presses on an- 
other as to break the shell." 

Eggs may be kept good for a year in the following man- 
ner: 

To a pail of water, put of unslacked lime and coarse salt 
each a pint; keep it in a cellar, or cool place, and put the 
eggs in, as fresh laid as possible. 

It is well to keep a stone pot of this lime water readv to 



THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 101 

receive the eggs as soon as laid; make a fresh supply every 
few months. This lime water is of exactly the proper 
strength; strong lime water will cook the eggs. Very strong 
lime water will eat the shell. 

POACHED EGGS. 

Two eggs*, two tablespoonfuls of milk, half a teaspoonful 
of salt, half a teaspoonful of butter. Beat the eggs, and 
add the salt and milk. Put the butter in a small saucepan, 
and when it melts, add the eggs. Stir over the fire until 
the mixture thickens, being careful not to let it cook hard. 
About two minutes will cock it. The eggs, when done, 
should be soft and creamy. Serve immediately. 

DROPPED EGGS. 

Have one quart of boiling water and one tablespoonful 
of salt in a frying-pan. Break the eggs, one by one, to a 
saucer, and slide carefully into the salted water. Cook until 
the white is firm, and lift out with a griddle-cake turner 
and place on toasted bread. Serve immediately. 

STUFFED EGGS. 

Six hard-boiled eggs cut in two, take out the yolks and 
mash fine; then add two teaspoonfuls of butter, one of 
cream, two or three drops of onion-juice, salt and pepper 
to taste. Mix all thoroughly and fill the eggs with this 
mixture; put them together. Then there will be a little of 
the filling left, to which acid one well-beaten egg. Cover 
the eggs with this mixture, and then roll in cracker-crumbs. 
Fry a light brown in boiling fat. Plain baked eggs make a 
quite pretty breakfast dish. Take a round white- ware dish 
thick enough to stand the heat of the oven, put into it 



102 THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 

sufficient fresh butter, and break as many eggs in it as are 
desirable, putting a few bit3 of butter on the top, and set 
in a rather slow oven until they are cooked. Have a dish 
of nicely made buttered toast arranged symmetrically on a 
plate, and garnish it and the dish of eggs with small pieces 
of curled parsley. 

EGGS A LA SUISSE. 

Spread the bottom of a dish with two ounces of fresh 
butter; cover this with grated cheese; break eight whole 
eggs upon the cheese without breaking the yolks. Season 
with red pepper and salt if necessary; pour a little cream on 
the surface, strew about two ounces of grated cheese on the 
top, and set the eggs in a moderate oven for about a 
quarter of an hour. Pass a hot salamander over the top to 
brown it. 

EGGS BROUILLE. 

Six eggs, half a cupful of milk, or, better still, of cream; 
two mushrooms, one teaspoonful of salt, a little pepper, 
three tablespoonfuls of butter, a slight grating of nutmeg. 
Cut the mushrooms into dice, and fry them for one minute 
in one tablespoonful of the butter. Beat the eggs, salt, 
pepper, and cream together, and put them in a saucepan. 
Add the butter and mushrooms to these ingredients. Stir 
over a moderate heat until the mixture begins to thicken. 
Take from the fire and beat rapidly until the eggs become 
quite thick and creamy. Have slices of toast on a hot dish. 
Heap the mixture on these, and garnish with points of 
toast Serve immediately. 

CURRIED EGGS. 

Slice two onions and fry in butter, add a tablespoon 
curry-powder and one pint good broth or stock, stew till 



THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK, 108 

onions are quite tender, add a cup of cream thickened with 
arrowroot or rice flour, simmer a few moments, then add 
eight or ten hard-boiled eggs, cut in slices, and beat them 
well, but do not boil. 

CREAMED EGGS. 

Boil six eggs twenty minutes. Make one pint of cream 
sauce. Have six slices of toast on a hot dish. Put a layer 
of sauce on each one, and then part of the whites of the 
eggs, cut in thin strips; and rub part of the yolks through 
a sieve on to the toast. Repeat this, and finish with a 
third layer of sauce. Place in the oven for about three 
minutes. Garnish with parsley, and serve. 

SOFT-BOILED EGGS. 

Place the eggs in a warm saucepan, and cover with boil- 
ing water. Let them stand where they will keep hot, but 
not boil, for ten minutes. This method will cook both 
whites and yolks. 

EGGS UPON TOAST. 

Put a good lump of butter into a frying-pan. When it is 
hot, stir in four or five well-beaten eggs, with pepper, salt, 
and a little parsley. Stir and toss for three minutes. Have 
ready to your hand some slices of buttered toast (cut round 
with a tin cake cutter before they are toasted); spread 
thickly with ground or minced tongue, chicken, or ham. 
Heap the stirred egg upon these in mounds, and set in a 
hot dish garnished with parsley and jrickled beets. 

DUTCH OMELET. 

Break eight eggs into a basin, season with pepper and 
salt, add two ounces of butter cut small, beat these well 



104 THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 

together, make an ounce of butter hot in a frying-pan, put 
the eggs in, continue to stir it, drawing it away from the 
sides, that it may be evenly done, shake it now and then to 
free it from the pan ; when the under side is a little browned, 
turn the omelet into a dish, and serve; this must be done 
over a moderate fire. 

EGGS POACHED IN BALLS. 

Put three pints of boiling water into a stewpan ; set it on 
a hot stove or coals; stir the water with a stick until it runs 
rapidly around, then having broken an egg into a cup, tak- 
ing care not to break the yolk, drop it into the whirling 
water; continue to stir it until the egg is cooked; then take 
it into a dish with a skimmer and set it over a pot of boil- 
ing water; boil one at a time, until you have enough. 
These will remain soft for a long time. 

OMELET AU NATURAL. 

Break eight or ten eggs into a basin; add a small tea- 
spoonful of salt and a little pepper, with a tablespoonful of 
cold water; beat the whole well with a spoon or whisk. 
In the meantime put some fresh sweet butter into an om- 
elet pan, and when it is nearly hot, put in an omelet; while 
it is frying, with a skimmer spoon raise the edges from the 
pan that it may be properly done. When the eggs are set 
and one side is a fine brown, double it half over and serve 
hot. These omelets should be put quite thin in the pan; 
the butter required for each will be about the size of a 
small egg. 

OMELET IN BATTER. 

Fry an omelet; when done, cut it in squares or diamonds; 
dip each piece in batter made of two eggs and a pint of 
milk, with enough wheat Hoar, and fry them in nice salted 
lard to a delicate brown. Serve hot. 



THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 10$ 

SCRAMBLED EGGS. 

Four eggs, one tablespoonful of butter, half a teaspoonful 
of salt. Beat the eggs and add the salt to them. Melt the 
butter in a saucepan. Turn in the beaten eggs, stir quickly 
over a hot fire for one minute, and serve. 

OMELET (SPLENDID). 

Six eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately; half pint 
milk, six teaspoons corn .starch, one teaspoon baking pow- 
der, and a little salt; add the whites, beaten to stiff froth, 
last; cook in a little butter. 



iOo THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 



VEGETABLES. 



BOILED POTATOES. 

Old potatoes are better for being peeled and put in 
cold water an hour before being put over to boiL They 
should then be put into fresh cold water, when set over the 
fire. New potatoes should always be put in a boiling water, 
and it is best to prepare them just in time for cooking. 
Are better steamed than boiled. 

MASHED POTATOES. 

Potatoes are not good for mashing until they are full 
grown; peel them, and lay them in water for an hour or 
more before boiling, for mashing. 

Old potatoes, when unfit for plain boiling, may be served 
mashed; cut out all imperfections, take off all the skin, and 
lay them in cold water for one hour or more; then put 
them into a dinner-pot or stewpan, with a teaspoonful of 
salt; cover the stewpan, and let them boil for half an hour, 
unless they are large, when three-quarters of an hour will 
be required; when they are done, take them up with a 
skimmer into a wooden bowl or tray, and mash them fine 
with a potato beetle; melt a piece of butter, the size of a 
large egg, into half a pint of hot milk; mix it with the 
mashed potatoes until it is thoroughly incorporated, and a 
smooth mass; then put it in a deep dish, smooth the top 
over, and mark it neatly with a knife; put pepper over and 



THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOR. 10? 

serve. The quantity of milk used must be in proportion to 
the quantity of potatoes. 

Mashed potatoes may be heaped on a flat dish; make it 
in a crown or pineapple; stick a sprig of green celery or 
parsley in the top; or first brown it before the fire or in an 
oven. 

Mashed potatoes may be made -a highly ornamental dish; 
after shaping it, as taste may direct, trim the edge of the 
plate with a wreath of celery leaves or green parsley; or 
first brown the outside in an oven or before the fire. 

FRIED POTATOES. 

Peel and cut the potatoes into thin slices, as nearly the 
same size as possible; make some butter or dripping quite 
hot in a frying-pan; put in the potatoes, and fry them on 
both sides to a nice brown. When they are crisp and 
done, take them up, place them on a cloth before the fire 
to drain the grease from them, and serve very hot, after 
sprinkling them with salt. These are delicious with rump- 
steak, and in France are frequently served thus as a break- 
fast dish. The remains of cold potatoes may also be sliced 
and fried by the above recipe, but the slices must be cut a 
little thicker. 

BROILED POTATOES. 

Cut cold boiled potatoes in slices lengthwise, quarter of 
an inch thick ; dip each slice in wheat flour, and lay them 
on a gridiron over a bright fire of coals; when both sides 
are browned nicely, take them on a hot dish, put a bit of 
butter, pepper and salt to taste over, and serve hot. 

POTATOES AND CREAM. 

Mince cold boiled potatoes fine; put them into a spider 
with melted butter in it; let them fry a little in the butter, 



103 THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 

well covered; then put in a fresh piece of butter, sea- 
soned with salt and pepper, and pour over cream or rich 
milk; let it boil up once and serve. 

POTATO PUFFS. 

Prepare the potatoes as directed for mashed potato. 
While hot, shape in balls about the size of an egg. Have a 
tin sheet well buttered, and place the balls on it. As soon 
as all are done, brush over with beaten egg. Brown in the 
oven. When done, slip a knife under them and slide them 
upon a hot platter. Garnish with parsley, and serve im- 
mediately. 

POTATO SNOW. 

Choose large white potatoes, as free from spots as possi- 
ble; boil them in their skin in salt and water until perfectly 
tender, drain and dry them thoroughly by the side of the 
fire, and peel them. Put a hot dish before the fire, rub the 
potatoes through a coarse sieve on to this dish; do not 
touch them afterwards, or the flakes will fall, and serve as 
hot as possible. 

POTATO BORDER. 

Six potatoes, three eggs, one tablespoonful of butter, one 
of salt, half a cupful of boiling milk. Pare, boil and mash 
the potatoes. When fine and light, add the butter, salt and 
pepper and two well-beaten eggs. Butter the border mold 
and pack the potato in it. Let this stand on the kitchen 
table ten minutes; then turn out on a dish and brush over 
with one well-beaten egg. Brown in the oven. 

WHIPPED POTATOES. 

Instead of mashing in the ordinary way whip with a 
fork until light and dry; then whip in a little melted 



*!&:& AVER /DAY COOK-BOOK. 109 

cutter, tjofcie milk, and salt to taste., whipping rapidly until 
creamy. Pile as lightly and irregularly as you can in a 
hot dish. 

SCALLOPED POTATOES. 

Prepare in this proportion: Two cups of mashed pota- 
toes, two tablespoonfuls of cream or milk, and one of 
melted butter; salt and pepper to taste. Stir the potatoes, 
butter, and cream together, adding one raw egg. If the 
potatoes seem too moist, beat in a few fine bread-crumbs. 
Bake in a hot oven for ten minutes, taking care to have the 
top a rich brown. 

POTATO CROQUETTES. 

Pare, boil, and mash six good-sized potatoes. Add ond 
tablespoonful of butter, two-thirds of a cupful of hot cream 
or milk, the whites of two eggs well beaten, salt and pepper 
to taste. When cool enough to handle, work into shape, 
roll in eggs and bread-crumbs, and fry in hot lard, 

POTATOES A LA CREME. 

Heat a cupful of milk; stir in a heaping tablespoonful t>l 
butter cut up in as much flour. Stir until smooth and 
thick; pepper and salt, and add two cupfuls of cold boiled 
potatoes, sliced, and a little very finely-chopped parsley. 
Shake over the fire until the potatoes are hot all through, 
and pour into a deep dish. 

TO BOIL SWEET POTATOES. 

Wash them perfectly clean, put them into a pot or stew* 
pan, and pour boiling water over to cover them; cover tha 
pot close, and boil fast for half an hour, or more if the po- 
tatoes are large; try them with a fork; when done, drain off 
the water, take off the skins, and serve. 



110 THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 

Cold sweet potatoes may be cut in slices across or length- 
wise, and fried or broiled as common potatoes; or they may 
bo cat in half and served cold. 

ROASTED SWEET POTATOES. 

Having washed them clean, and wiped them dry> roast 
them on a hot hearth as directed for common potatoes; or 
put them in a Dutch oven or tin reflector. Koasted or 
baked potatoes should not be cut, but broken open and 
eaten from the skin, as from a shell. 

TO BAKE SWEET POTATOES. 

Wash them perfectly clean, wipe them dry, and bake in 
a quick oven, according to their size — half an hour for quite 
small size, three-quarters for larger, and a full hour for the 
largest. Let the oven have a good heat, and do not open 
it, unless it is necessary to turn them, until they are done. 

FRENCH FRIED SWEET POTATOES. 

Prepare and fry the same as the white potatoes. Or they 
can first be boiled half an hour, and then pared, cut and 
fried as directed. The latter is the better way, as they are 
liable to be a little hard if fried when raw. 

TURNIPS. 

Boil until tender; mash and season with butter, pepper, 
salt, and a little rich milk or cream. 

SPINACH. 

An excellent way to serve spinach is to first look it over 
carefully; wash it in two or three waters. If the stalks are 



THE E VER YD A Y COOK-BOOK. 11* 

not perfectly tender, cut the leaves from the stalk. Boil for 
twenty minutes in water with enough salt dissolved in 
it to salt the spinach sufficiently. "When done let it drain, 
then chop it fine, put it on the stove in a saucepan, with a 
lump of butter, salt, and pepper, and enough milk to 
moisten it. When the butter is melted and spinach steam- 
ing, take from the fire and put it in the dish in which it is 
going to the table. Garnish with hard-boiled eggs cut in 
slices or in rings — that is, with, the yolk removed and rings 
of the white only left, 

BEETS. 

Clean these nicely, but do not pare them, leaving on a 
short piece of the stalk. Then put over to boil in hot water. 
Young beets will cook tender in an hour; old beets require 
several hours' boiling. When done, skin quickly while hot, 
slice thin into your vegetable dish, put on salt, pepper, and 
a little butter, put over a little vinegar, and serve hot or 
cold. 

TO PRESERVE VEGETABLES FOR WIN- 
TER USE. 

Green string beans must be picked when young; put a 
layer three inohes deep in a small wooden keg or half bar- 
rel; sprinkle in salt an inch deep, then put another layer oi 
beans, then salt, and beans and salt in alternate layers, un- 
til you have enough; let the last be salt; cover them with a 
piece of board which will fit the inside of the barrel or keg, 
and place a heavy weight upon it; they will make a brine. 

When wanted for use, soak them one night or more in 
plenty of water, changing it once or twice, until the salt is 
out of them, then cut them, and boil the same as when 
fresh. 

Carrots, beans, beet-roots, parsnips, and potatoes 



112 THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 

keep best in dry sand or earth in a cellar; turnips keep best 
on a cellar bottom, or they may be kept the same as carrots, 
etc. "Whatever earth remains about them when taken 
from the ground, should not be taken off. 

When sprouts come on potatoes or other stored vege- 
tables, they should be carefully cut of£ The young sprouts 
from turnips are sometimes served as a salad, or boiled 
tender in salt and water, and served with butter and 
pepper over. 

Celery may be kept all winter by setting it in boxes filled 
with earth; keep it in the cellar; it will grow and whiten in 
the dark; leeks may also be kept in this way. 

Cabbage set out in earth, in a good cellar, will keep good 
and fresh all winter. Small close heads of cabbage may be 
kept many weeks by taking them before the frost comes, 
and laying them on a stone floor; this will whiten them, and 
make them tender. 

Store onions are to be strung, and hung in a dry, cold 
place, 

DELICATE CABBAGE. 

Remove all defective leaves, quarter and cut as for coarse 
slaw, cover well with cold water, and let remain several 
hours before cooking, then drain and put into pot with 
enough boiling water to cover; boil until thoroughly 
cooked (which will generally require about forty-five min- 
utes), add salt ten or fifteen minutes before removing from 
fire, and when done, take up into a colander, press out the 
water well, and season with butter and pepper. This is a 
good dish to serve with corned meats, but should not be 
cooked with them; if preferred, however, it may be sea- 
soned by adding some of the liquor and fat from the boiling 
meat to the cabbage while cooking. Drain, remove, and 
serve in a dish with drawn .butter or a cream dressing 
poured over it 



THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. US 



RED CABBAGE. 

Select two email, solid heads of hard red cabbage; divide 
them in halves from crown to stem ; lay the split side down, 
and cnt downwards in thin slices. The cabbage will then 
be in narrow strips or shreds. Put into a saucepan a table- 
spoonful of clean drippings, butter, or any nice fat; when 
fat is hot, put in cabbage, a teaspoonf ul of salt, three table- 
spoonfuls vinegar (if the latter is very strong, use but two), 
and one onion, in which three or four cloves have been 
stuck, buried in the middle; boil two hours and a half; if it 
becomes too dry and is in danger of scorching, add a very 
little water. This is very nice. 

CAULIFLOWER. 

Boil a fine cauliflower, tied up snugly in coarse tarlatan, 
in hot water, a little salt Drain and lay in a deep dish, 
flower uppermost. Heat a cup of milk; thicken with two 
tablespoonfuls of butter, cut into bits, and rolled in flour. 
Add pepper, salt, the beaten white of an egg, and boil up 
one minute, stirrirg well. Take from the fire, squeeze the 
juice of a lemsn through a hair sieve into the sauce, and 
pour half into a boat, the rest over the cauliflower. 

MASHED CARROTS. 

Scrape, wash, lay in cold water half an hour; then cook 
tender in boiling water. Drain well, mash with a wooden 
spoon, or beetle, work in a good piece of butter, and sea- 
son with pepper and salt. Heap up in a vegetable dish, and 
serve very hot. 

BOILED GREEN CORN. 

Choose young sugar-corn, full grown, but not hard; test 
with the nail. When the grain is pierced, the milk should 



114 THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 

escape in a jet, and not be thick. Clean by stripping off 
the outer leaves, tarn back the innermost covering carefully, 
pick off every thread of silk, and re-cover the ear with the 
thin husk that grew nearest it. Tie at the top with a bit of 
thread, put boiling water salted, and cook fast from twenty 
minutes to half an hour, in proportion to size and age. 
Cut off the stalks close to the cob, and send whole to table 
wrapped in a napkin. 

Or you can cut from the cob while hot and season with 
butter, pepper, and salt Send to table in a vegetable 
dish. 

GREEN PEAS. 

Shell and lay in cold water fifteen minutes. Cook from 
twenty to twenty-five minutes in boiling salted water. 
Drain, put into a deep dish with a good lump of butter; 
pepper and salt to taste. 

TO BOIL ONIONS. 

Take off the tops and tails, and the thin outer skin; but 
no more, lest the onions should go to pieces. Lay them on 
the bottom of a pan which is broad enough to contain them 
without piling one on another; just cover them with water, 
and let them simmer slowly till they are tender all through, 
but not till they break. 

Serve them up with melted butter. 

FRIED ONIONS. 

Cut them in thin slices and season them ; have a piece of 
fat bacon frying to get the juice, take it out, and put the 
onions in and stir until a pretty brown. 

BOILED PARSNIPS. 

Wash the parsnips, scrape them thoroughly, and with the 
point of a knife, remove any black spots about them, and 



THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 115 

should they be very large, cut the thick part into quarters. 
Put them into a saucepan of boiling water, salted in the 
above proportion, boil them rapidly until tender, which 
may be ascertained by thrusting a fork into them; take 
them up, drain them, and serve in a vegetable dish. This 
vegetable is usually served with salt fish, boiled pork, or 
boiled beef; when sent to table with the latter, a few 
should be placed alternately with carrots round the dish as 
a garnish. 

PARSNIPS FRIED IN BUTTER. 

Scrape the parsnips and boil gently forty-five minutes. 
When cold, cut in long slices about one-third of an inch 
thick. Season with salt and pepper. Dip in melted butter 
and in flour. Have two tablespoonfuls of butter in the fry- 
ing-pan, and as soon as hot, put in enough parsnips to cover 
the bottom. Fry brown on both sides and serve on a hot 
dish. 

CREAMED PARSNIPS. 

Boil tender, scrape, and slice lengthwise. Put over the 
fire with two tablespoonfuls of butter, pepper, and salt, and 
a little minced parsley. Shake until the mixture boils. 
Dish the parsnips, add to the sauce three tablespoonfuls of 
cream in which has been stirred a quarter spoonful of flour. 
Bcil once, and pour over the parsnips. 

PARSNIP FRITTERS. 

Boil four or five parsnips; when tender, take off the skin 
and mash them fine, add to them a teaspoonful of wheat 
flour and a beaten egg; put a tablespoonful of lard or beef 
dripping in a frying-pan over the fire, add to it a saltspoon- 
ful of salt; when boiling hot, put in the parsnips, make it 
in small cakes with a spoon; when one sido is a delicate 



115 THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 

brown, turn the other; when both are done, take them on a 
dish, put a very little of the fat in which they were fried 
over, and serve hot. These resemble very nearly the taste 
of the salsify or oyster plant, and will generally be pre- 
ferred. 

SALSIFY, OR VEGETABLE OYSTER. 

Boil and serve as directed for parsnips, either plaia 
boiled, or fried, or made fritters. 

BOILED VEGETABLE MARROW. 

Have ready a saucepan of boiling water, properly salted; 
put in the marrows after peeling them, and boil them until 
quite tender. Take them up with a slice; halve, and, 
should they be very large, quarter them. Dish them on 
toast, and send to table with them a tureen of melted but- 
ter, or, in lieu of this, a small pat of salt butter. Large 
vegetable marrows may be preserved throughout the win- 
ter by storing them in a dry place; when wanted for use, a 
few slices should be cut and boiled in the same manner as 
above; but, when once begun, the marrow must be eaten 
quickly, as it keeps but a short time after it is cut. Veg- 
etable marrows are also very delicious mashed; they should 
be boiled, then drained, and mashed smoothly with a 
wooden spoon. Heat them in a saucepan, add a seasoning 
of salt and pepper, and a small piece of butter, and dish 
with a few snippets of toasted bread placed round as a gar- 
nish. 

Vegetable marrows are delightful when sliced and fried 
for ten minutes in butter. Before being fried they may be 
dipped in a batter of flour and water, seasoned with a little 
salt. Vegetable marrows may also be dressed as follows: 
Boil one, and when it is about ready, cut it in pieces, which 
place in a fresh saucepan, covered with soup stock, either 



THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 117 

white or brown; add a little salt in stewing. Serve in a 
deep dish when thoroughly tender. Vegetable marrows are 
very nice plain boiled, and served upon buttered toast. 
Peel them and cut them so as to be able to remove the 
seeds. Marrows will take from twenty minutes to an hour 
to boil, according to size and age. After being parboiled, 
they may be sliced down, dipped iu egg y and then rubbed 
among bread-crumbs, and fried; serve them as hot as pos- 
sible. 

Tomatoes may be sliced thin, and served with salt, pep- 
per, and vinegar over, for breakfast; or sliced, and strewn 
with sugar and grated nutmeg, for tea; for dinner they may 
be stewed or broiled, or baked. 

Tomatoes may be preserved in sugar, or as catsup, when 
out of season. Such as like them, declare them to be 
equally excellent in each and every form or dressing. 

STEWED TOMATOES. 

Pour boiling water over six or eight large tomatoes, or a 
greater number of smaller ones; let them remain for a few 
minutes, then peel off the skins, squeeze out the seeds, and 
some of the juice, by pressing them gently in the hand; put 
them in a well- tinned stewpan, with a teaspoonful of salt, a 
3altspoonful of pepper, a bit of butter, half as large as an 
&gg, and a tablespoonful of grated bread or rolled crackers; 
cover the stewpan close, and set it over the fire for nearly 
an hour; shake the stewpan occasionally, that they may 
not burn; serve hot. 

This is decidedly the best manner of stewing tomatoes; 
they may be done without the bread-crumbs, and with less 
stewing if preferred. 

BAKED TOMATOES. 

Wash five or six smooth tomatoes; cut a piece from 
&• stem end, the size of a twenty-five cent piece; put a 



118 THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 

saltspoonful of salt, half as much pepper, and a bit of but' 
ter the size of a nutmeg, in each; set them in a dish or pan, 
and bake in a moderate oven for nearly one hour. 

STUFFED TOMATOES. 

Twelve large, smooth tomatoes, one teaSpoonful of salt, 
a little pepper, one tablespoonf ul of butter, one of sugar, one 
cupful of bread-crumbs, one teaspoonful of onion-juice. 
Arrange the tomatoes in a baking-pan. Cut a thin slice 
from the smooth end of each. With a small spoon, scoop 
out as much of the pulp and juice as possible without in- 
juring the shape. When all have been treated in this 
way, mix the pulp and juice with the other ingredients, and 
fill the tomatoes with this mixture. Put on the tops, and 
bake slowly three-quarters of an hour. Slide the cake 
turner under the tomatoes and lift gently on to a flat 
dish. Garnish with parsley, and serve. 

SCALLOPED TOMATOES. 

Turn nearly all the juice off from a can of tomatoes. Salt 
and pepper this, by the way, and put aside in a cool place 
for some other day's soup. Put a layer of bread-crumbs in 
the bottom of a buttered pie-dish; on them one of tomatoes; 
sprinkle with salt, pepper, and some bits of butter, also a 
little sugar. Another layer of crumbs, another of tomatoes 
—seasoned — then a top layer of very fine, dry crumbs. 
Bake covered until bubbling hot, and brown quickly. 

TO PEEL TOMATOES. 

Put the tomatoes in a frying basket and plunge them into 
boiling water for about three minutes. Drain and peeL 



THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK, 119 



BAKED BEANS. 

Pick on© quart of beans free from stones and dirt. "Wash 
and soak in cold water over night. In the morning pour 
off the water. Cover with hot water, put two pounds of 
corned beef with them, and boil until they begin to split 
open (the time depends upon the age of the beans, but it 
will be from thirty to sixty minutes). Turn them into the 
colander, and pour over them two or three quarts of cold 
water. Put about half of the beans in a deep earthen pot, 
then put in the beef, and finally the remainder of the beans. 
Mix one teaspoonful of mustard and one tablespoonful of 
molasses with a little water. Pour this over the beans, and 
then add boiling water to just cover. Bake slowly ten 
hours. Add a little water occasionally. 

STRING BEANS. 

String, snap and wash two quarts beans, boil in plenty of 
water about fifteen minutes, drain off and put on again in 
about two quarts boiling water; boil an hour and a half, and 
add salt and pepper just before taking up, stirring in one 
and a half tablespoons butter, rubbed into two tablespoons 
flour and half pint sweet cream. Or boil a piece of salted 
pork one hour, then add beans and boil an hour and a half. 
For shelled beans boil half an hour in water enough to 
cover, and dress as above. 

BUTTER BEANS. 

With a knife cut off the ends of pods and strings from 
both sides, being very careful to remove every shred; cut 
every bean lengthwise, in two or three strips, and leave 
them for half an hour in cold water. Much more than 
cover them with boiling water; boil till perfectly tender. 



120 THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 

It is well to allow three hours for boiling. Grain well, re- 
turn to kettle, and add a dressing of half a gill of cream, 
one and a half ounces butter, one even teaspoon salt, and 
half a teaspoon pepper. This is sufficient for a quart of 
cooked beans. 

ASPARAGUS WITH EGGS. 

Boil a bunch of asparagus twenty minutes; cut off the 
tender tops and lay in a deep pie-plate, buttering, salting, 
and peppering welL Beat four eggs just enough to break 
up the yolks, add a tablespoonful of melted butter, with 
pepper and salt, and pour upon the asparagus. Bake eight 
minutes in a quick oven, and eerve immediately. 

ASPARAGUS UPON TOAST. 

Tie the bunch of asparagus up with soft string, when you 
have cut away the wood, and cook about twenty-five min- 
utes in salted boiling water. Have ready some slices of 
crustless toast; dip each in the asparagus liquor; butter 
well while hot and lay upon a heated dish. Drain the 
asparagus, and arrange upon the toast. Pepper, salt, and 
butter generously. 

MUSHROOMS, STEWED. 

If fresh, let them lie in salt and water about an hour, 
then put them in the stewpan, cover with water and let 
them cook two hours gently. Dress them with cream, but- 
ter and flour as oysters, and season to taste. 



MUSHROOMS, FRIED. 

When peeled put them into hot butter and let them 
heat thoroughly through — too much cooking toughen^ 



THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 121 

them. Season well with butter, pepper and salt. Serve 
on buttered toast; a teaspoon of wine or vinegar on each 
mushroom is a choice method. 

BAKED MUSHROOMS. 

Place some large flat ones nicely cleaned and trimmed 
on thin slices of well-buttered toast, putting a little nudgel 
of butter in each, as also a snuff of pepper and salt; lay 
them on a baking-tray, and cover them carefully; heap the 
hot ashes upon them, and let them bake on the hearth for 
fifteen or twenty minutes. 

BROILED MUSHROOMS. 

Choose the largest sort, lay them on a small gridiron 
over bright coals; the stalk upwards. Broil quickly, and 
cerve, with butter, pepper, and salt over. 

MASHED SQUASH. 

Peel, seed and slice fresh summer squashes. Lay in cold 
water ten minutes; put into boiling water, a little salt, and 
cook tender. Twenty minutes will suffice if the squash be 
young. Mash in a colander, pressing out all the water; 
heap in a deep dish, seasoning with pepper, salt and butter. 
Serve hot. 

BAKED SQUASH. 

Cut in pieces, scrape well, bake from one to one and a' 
half hours, according to the thickness of the squash; to be 
eaten with salt and butter as sweet potatoes. 

FRIED SQUASHES. 

Cut the squash into thin slices, and sprinkle it with salt; 
let it stand a few moments; then beat two eggs, and dip 
the squash into the eg^; then fr) it brown in butter. 



122 THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 

STEWED CELERY 

Is an excellent winter dish, and is very easily cooked. 
Wash the stalks thoroughly, and boil in well-salted water 
till tender, which will be in about twenty minutes. After it 
is made ready as above, drain it thoroughly, place it on 
toasted bread, and pour over it a quantity of sauce. A 
sauce of cream, seasoned with a little mace, may be served 
over the celery. It may also be served with melted buttei, 

STUFFED EGG-PLANT. 

Cut the egg-plant in two; scrape out all the inside and 
put it in a saucepan with a little minced ham ; cover with 
water and boil with salt; drain off the water; add two 
tablespoonfuls grated crumbs, tablespoonful butter, half a 
minced onion, salt and pepper; stuff each half of the hull 
with the mixture; add a small lamp of butter to each, and 
bake fifteen minute* 



THE EVERYDAY (JQQK-BQQK* 123 



SAUCES FOR MEATS, FISH, POUL- 
TRY OR VEGETABLES. 



TO MAKE DRAWN BUTTER. 

Put half a pint of railk in a perfectly clean stewpan, and 
set it over a moderate fire; pub into a pint bowl a heaping 
table spoonful of wheat flour, quarter of a pound of sweet 
butter, and a saltspoonful of salt; work these well to- 
gether with the back of a spoon, then pour into it, stirring 
it all the time, half a pint of boiling water; when it is 
smooth, stir it into the boiling milk, let it simmer for five 
minutes or more, and it is done. 

Drawn butter made after this receipt will be found to 
be most excellent; it may be made less rich by using less 
butter. 

PARSLEY SAUCE. 

Make a drawn butter a3 directed, dip a bunch of parsley 
into boiling water, then cut it fine, and stir into the drawn 
butter a few minutes before taking it up. 

EGG SAUCE. 

Make a drawn butter; chop two hard-boiled eggs quite 
fine, the white and yolk separately, and stir it into the 
sauce before serving. This is used for boiled fish or vege- 
tables. 



124 THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 



ONION SAUCE. 

Peel some nice white onions, and boil them tender; 
press the water from them; chop them fine, and put them 
to a half pint of hot milk; add a bit of butter, and a tea- 
spoonful of salt, and pepper to taste. Serve with boiled 
veal, or poultry, or mutton. 

ANCHOVY SAUCE. 

Make the butter sauce, and stir into it four tablespoon- 
fuls of essence of anchovy and one of lemon-juice. 

BREAD SAUCE. 

One pint milk, one cup bread-crumbs (very fine), one 
onion, sliced, a pinch of mace, pepper and salt to taste, 
three tablespoonfuls butter. Simmer the sliced onion in 
the milk until tender; strain the milk and pour over the 
bread-crumbs, which should be put into a saucepan. Cover 
and soak half an hour; beat smooth with an egg- whip, add 
the seasoning and butter; stir in well, boil up once, and 
serve in a tureen. If it is too thick, add boiling water and 
more butter. 

This sauce is for roast poultry. Some people add some 
of the gravy from the dripping-pan, first straining it and 
beating it well in with the sauce. 

TOMATO SAUCE 

Can be cheaply made either from the fresh fruit or from the 
canned tomatoes, which are on sale in every grocer's shop. 
Squeeze as much as you require through a sieve, and then 
simmer slowly for a little time in a few tablespoonfuls of 
beef gravy, season with pepper and salt. Excellent for 
chops and cutlets, or for roasted beet 



THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 126 



TOMATO MUSTARD. 

• One peck of ripe tomatoes; boiled with two onions, six 
red peppers, four cloves of garlic, for one hour; then add a 
half pint or half pound salt, three tablespoons black pepper, 
half ounce ginger, half ounce allspice, half ouoce mace, half 
ounce cloves; then boil again for one hour longer, and when 
cold add one pint of vinegar and a quarter pound of mus- 
tard; and if you like it very hot, a tablespoonful of Cayenne. 

MINT SAUCE. 

Mix one tablespoon of white sugar to half a teacup of 
good vinegar; add the mint and let it infuse for half an 
hour in a cool place before sending to the table. Serve 
with roast lamb or mutton, 

CELERY SAUCE. 

Mix two tablespoons of flour with half a teacup of butter; 
have ready a pint of boiling milk; stir the flour and butter 
into the milk; take three heads of celery, cut into small 
bits, and boil for a few minutes in water, which strain off; 
put the celery into the melted butter, and keep stirred over 
the fire for five or ten minutes. This is very nice with 
boiled fowl or turkey. 

GOVERNOR'S SAUCE. 

One peck green tomatoes, four large onions, six red pep- 
pers, one teacup grated horseradish, one teaspoon Cayenne 
and one of black pepper, one teaspoon mustard, half cup 
sugar; slice the tomatoes and sprinkle one teacup salt on, 
and lay all night; drain well in the morning, then simmer 
all together till cooked through 



m THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 



CREAM SAUCE. 

One cupful of milk, a teaspoonful of flour and a table- 
spoonful of butter, salt arid pepper. Put the butter in a 
Email frying-pan, and when hot, but not brown, add the 
flour. Stir until smooth; then gradually add the milk. 
Let it boil up once. Season to taste with salt and pepper, 
and serve. This is nice to cut cold potatoes into and let 
them just heat through. They are then creamed potatoes. 
It also answers as a sauce for other vegetables, omelets, 
fish and sweetbreads, or, indeed, for anything that requires 
a white sauce. If you have plenty of cream, use it, and 
omit the butter. 

RUSSIAN SAUCE. 

(Piquant) may be thus made: Grated horseradish, four 
tablespoonfuls, weak mustard, one spoonful, sugar, half a 
spoonful, a little salt, two or three grains of Cayenne, and 
a spoonful or two of vinegar. Mix thoroughly, and serve 
to cold meat. When wanted for fish, let it be added to 
melted butter — two parts butter to one of sauce. 

MAYONNAISE SAUCE. 

Mix in a two-quart bowl one even teaspoon ground mus- 
tard, one of salt, and one and a half of vinegar; beat in the 
yolk of a raw egg } then add very gradually half a pint pure 
olive oil (or melted butter), beating briskly all the time. 
The mixture will become a very thick batter. Flavor with 
vinegar or fresh lemon-juice. Closely covered, it will keep 
for weeks in a cold place, and is delicious. 



THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 121 



oyster Sauce. 

Take a pint of oysters, and save out a little of their liq- 
uor. Put them with their remaining liquor, and some 
mace and nutmeg, into a covered saucepan, and simmer 
them on hot coals about ten minutes. Then drain them. 
Oysters for sauce should be large. Having prepared in a 
saucepan some drawn or melted butter (mixed with oyster 
liquid instead of water), pour it into a sauceboat, add the oys- 
ters to it, and serve it up with boiled poultry, or with boiled 
fresh fish. Celery, first boiled and then chopped, is an im- 
provement to oyster sauce. 

LOBSTER SAUCE. 

Put the coral and spawn of a boiled lobster into a mor- 
tar, with a tablespoonful of butter, pound it to a smooth 
mass, then rub it through a sieve; melt nearly a quarter of 
a pound of sweet butter, with a wineglass of water, or vine- 
gar; add a teaspoonful of made mustard, stir in the coral 
and spawn, and a little salt and pepper; stir it until it is 
smooth, and serve. Some of the meat of the lobster may 
be chopped fine, and stirred into it. 

CAPER SAUCE. 

Make a butter sauce, and stir into it one tablespoonful of 
lemon-juice, two of capers, and one of essence of anchovy. 

MUSTARD SAUCE. 

Stir three tablespoonfuls of mixed mustard and a speck 
of Cayenne into a butter sauce. This is nice for devilled 
turkey and broiled smoked herrings. 



m THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 



CURRY SAUCE. 

One tablespoonful of butter, one of flour, one teaspoofi« 
ful of curry powder, one large slice of onion, one large cup- 
ful of stock, salt and pepper to taste. Cut the onion fine, 
and fry brown in the butter. Add the flour and curry pow- 
der. Stir for one minute, add the stock, and season with 
salt and pepper. Simmer five minutes; then strain, and 
serve. This sauce can be served with a broil or sauto oj 
meat or fish* 

CRANBERRY SAUCE. 

After removing all soft berries, wash thoroughly, place 
for about two minutes in scalding water, remove, and to 
every pound of fruit add three-quarters of a pound of gran- 
ulated sugar and a half pint water; stew together over a 
moderate but steady fire. Be careful to cover and not to stir 
the fruit, but occasionally shake the vessel, or apply a gent- 
ler heat if in danger of sticking or burning. If attention to 
these particulars be given, the berries will retain their shape 
to a considerable extent, which adds greatly to their appear- 
ance on the table. Boil from five to seven minutes, remove 
from fire, turn into a deep dish, and set aside to cool. If to 
be kept, they can be put up at once in air-tight jars. Or f 
for strained sauce, one and a half pounds of fruit should be 
stewed in one pint of water for ten or twelve minutes, or 
until quite soft, then strained through a colander or fine 
wire sieve, and three-quarters of a pound of sugar thor- 
oughly stirred into the pulp thus obtained; after cooling it 
is ready for use. Serve with roast turkey or game. When 
to be kept for a long time without sealing, more sugar may 
be .added, but its too free use impairs the peculiar cranberry 
flavor. For dinner sauce half a pound is more economical, 
and really preferable to three-quarters, as given above. It 
is better, though not necessary, to use a porcelain kettle. 



THE E VER YD A Y COOK-BOOK. 129 

Some prefer not to add the sugar till the fruit is almost 
done, thinking this plan makes it more tender, and preserves 
the color better. 

PORT WINE SAUCE FOR GAME. 

Half a tumbler of currant jelly, half a tumbler of port 
wine, half a tumbler of stock, half a teaspoonful of salt, two 
tablespoonfuls of lemon-juice, four cloves, a speck of Cay- 
enne. Simmer the cloves and stock together for half an 
hour. Strain on the other ingredients, and let all melt to- 
gether. Part of the gravy from the game may be added 
to it. 

CURRANT JELLY SAUCE. 

Three tablespoonfuls of butter, one onion, one bay leaf, 
one sprig of celery, two tablespoonfuls of vinegar, half a 
capful of currant jelly, one tablespoonful of flour, one pint 
of stock, salt, pepper. Cook the butter and onion until the 
latter begins to color. Add the flour, and herbs. Stir un- 
til brown; add the stock, and simmer twenty minutes. 
Strain, and skim off all the fat. Add the jelly, and stir over 
the lire until it is melted. Serve with game. 

APPLE SAUCE. 

Peel, quarter, and core, rich tart apples; put to them a 
very little water, cover them, and set them over the tire; 
when tender, mash them smooth, and serve with roasted 
pork, goose, or any other gross meat. 



130 THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 



BREAD AND BREAKFAST CAKES. 



YEAST. 



Pat two quarts of water and two tablespoonfuls of hops 
on to boil. Pare and grate six large potatoes. When the 
hops and water boil strain the water on the grated potatoes, 
and stir well. Place on the stove and boil up once. Add 
half a cupful of sugar and one-fourth of a cupful of salt. 
Let the mixture get blood-warm; then add one cupful of 
yeast, or one cake of compressed yeast, and let it rise in a 
warm place five or six hours. When well-risen turn into a 
stone jug. Cork this tightly, and set in a cool place. 

PLAIN WHITE FAMILY BREAD. 

Take one pint of flour and half a pint of good hop yeast 
and stir it together about five o'clock in the afternoon; at 
nine put one-half gallon of flour in a tray, put the sponge 
in the middle of the flour with a piece of lard as large as a 
walnut. Knead it all up with tepid water made salt with 
two teaspoonfuls or more to taste; work it well, and put it 
in a jar to rise. Next morning knead it over with a little 
flour; make it in two loaves; and set it in a warm place or 
oven until ready; then put it to bake, and when done, wrap 
it in a nice coarse towel. If you have no sugar in the 
yeast you use, stir a large teaspoonful in it before putting it 
in the flour. 



THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 131 



GRAHAM BREAD. 

Take a little over a quart of warm water, one-half cup 
brown sugar or molasses, one-fourth cup hop yeast, and one 
and one-half teaspoons salt; thicken the water with un- 
bolted flour to a thin batter; add sugar, salt and yeast, and 
stir in more flour until quite stiff. In the morning add a 
email teaspoon soda, and flour enough to made the batter 
stiff as can be stirred with a spoon, put it into pans and let 
rise again; then bake in even oven, not too hot at first; 
keep warm while rising; smooth over the loaves with a 
spoon or knife dipped in water. 

BOSTON BROWN BREAD. 

One heaping coffee-cup each of corn, rye and Graham 
meal. The rye meal should be as fine as the Graham, or 
rye flour may be used. Sift the three kinds together as 
closely as possible, and beat together thoroughly with two 
cups New Orleans or Porto Rico molasses, two cups sweet 
milk, one cup sour milk, one dessertspoon soda, one tea- 
spoon salt; pour into a tin form, place in a kettle of cold 
water, put on and boil four hours. Put on to cook as soon 
as mixed. It may appear to be too thin, but it is not, as 
this receipt has never been known to fail. Serve warm, 
with baked beans or Thanksgiving turkey. The bread 
should not quite fill the form (or a tin pail with a cover will 
answer), as it must have room to swell. See that the water 
does not boil up to the top of the form ; also take care :"t 
does not boil entirely away or stop boiling. To serve i\ 
remove the lid and set it a few moments into the open oven 
to dry the top, and it will then turn out in perfect shape. 
This bread can be used as a pudding, and served with a 
sauce made of thick sour cream, well sweetened and seasoned 
with nutmeg, or it is good toasted the next day. 



132 THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 



CORN BREAD. 

Sift three quarts of corn meal, add a tablespoonful of 
salt, one teaspoonful baking powder, and mix sufficient 
water with it to make a thin batter. Cover it with a bread- 
cloth and set it to rise. When ready to bake stir it well, 
pour it into a baking-pan, and bake slowly. Use cold water 
in summer and hot water in winter. 

STEAMED BROWN BREAD. 

One quart each of milk and Indian meal, one pint rye 
meal, one cup of molasses, two tablespoonfuls of soda. 
Add a little salt and steam four hours. 

PARKER HOUSE ROLLS. 

One teacup home-made yeast, a little salt, one tablespoon 
sugar, a piece of lard size of an egg, one pint milk, flour 
sufficient to mix. Put the milk on the stove to scald, with 
the lard in it. Prepare the flour with salt, sugar and yeast. 
Then add the milk, not too hot. Knead thoroughly when 
mixed at night; in the morning but very slight kneading ia 
necessary. Then roll out and cut with large biscuit cutter. 
Spread a little butter on each roll and lap together. Let 
them rise very light, then bake^in a quick oven. 

FRENCH ROLLS. 

One pint of milk, scalded; put into it while hot half a 
cup of sugar and one tablespoon of butter. When the 
milk is cool, add a little salt and half a cup of yeast, or 
one compressed yeast cake; stir in flour to make a stiff 
sponge, and when light, mix as for bread. Let it rise 
until light, punch it down with the hand, and let it rise 
again — repeat two or three times, then turn the dough 



THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 133 

pn to the molding-board and pound with the rolling-pin 
until thin enough to cut. Cut out with a tumbler, brush 
the surface of each one with melted butter, and fold over. 
Let the rolls rise on the tins; bake, and while warm biush 
over the surface with melted butter to make the crust 
tender. 

BUNS. 

Break one egg into a cup and fill with sweet milk; mis 
with it half cup yeast, half cup butter, one cup sugar, 
enough flour to make a soft dough; flavor with nutmeg. 
Let it rise till very light, then mold into biscuits with a few 
currants. Let rise a second time in pan; bake, and 
when nearly done, glaze with a little molasses and milk. 
Use the same cup, no matter about the size, for each 
measure. 

BISCUIT. 

Dissolve one rounded tablespoon of butter in a pint cf 
hot milk; when lukewarm stir in one quart of flour, and 
one beaten egg, a little salt, and a teacup of yeast; work 
into dough until smooth. If winter, set in a warm place; 
if summer, a cool one to rise. In the morning work softly 
and roll out one-half inch and cut into biscuit and set to 
rise for thirty minutes, when they will be ready to bake 
These are delicious. 

TO MAKE RUSKS. 

To every pound of flour add two ounces of butter, one- 
quarter pint of milk, two ounces of loaf sugar, three eggs, 
one tablespoonful of yeast. Put the milk and butter into 
a saucepan, and keep shaking it round until the latter is 
melted. Put the flour into a basin with the sugar, mix 
these well together, and beat the eggs, Stir them with the 



134 TEE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 

yeast to the milk and butter, and with this liquid work the 
flour into a smooth dough. Cover a cloth over the basin, and 
leave the dough to rise by the side of the fire; then knead 
it, and divide it into twelve pieces; place them in a brisk 
oven, and bake for about twenty minutes. Take the rusks 
out, break them in half, and then set them in the oven to 
get crisp on the other side. When cold, they should be 
put into tin canisters to keep them dry; and, if intended 
for the cheese course, the sifted sugar should be omitted. 



SWEET MILK GEMS. 

Beat an egg well, add a pint new milk, a little salt, and 
Graham flour until it will drop off the spoon nicely; heat 
and butter the gem-pans before dropping in the dough; 
bake in a hot oven twenty minutes. 

BREAKFAST GEMS. 

One cup sweet milk, one and a half cups flour, one egg, 
one teaspoon salt, one teaspoon baking powder, beaten to- 
gether five minutes; bake in hot gem-paus in a hot oven 
about fifteen minutes. 

GRAHAM BREAKFAST CAKES. 

Two cups of Graham flour, one cup of wheat flour, two 
eggs well beaten; mix with sweet milk, to make a very thin 
batter; bake in gem-irons; have the irons hot, then set them 
on the upper grate in the oven; will bake in fifteen 
minutes. 

BUCKWHEAT CAKES. 

One quart buckwheat flour; four tablespoonfuls yeast; 
one teaspoonful salt; one handful Indian meal; two table- 



THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 135 

spoonfuls molasses — not syrup. "Warm water enough to 
make a thin batter. Beat very well and set to rise in a 
warm place. If the batter is in the least sour in the morn- 
ing, stir in a very little soda dissolved in hot water. Mix 
in an earthen crock, and leave some in the bottom each 
morning — a cupful or so — to serve as sponge for the next 
night, instead of getting fresh yeast. In cold weather this 
plan can be successfully pursued for a week or ten days 
without setting a new supply. Of course you add the 
usual quantity of flour, etc., every night, and beat up well. 
Do not make your cakes too small. Buckwheats should be 
of generous size. Some put two- thirds buckwheat, one- 
third oat-meal, omitting the Indian. 

FLANNEL CAKES. 

Beat six eggs very light, stir in them two pounds of 
flour, one gill of yeast, small spoonful of salt, and sufficient 
milk to make a thick batter. Make them at night for 
breakfast, and at ten in the morning for tea. Have your 
griddle hot, grease it well, and bake as buckwheat. Butter 
and send them hot to the table, commencing after the family 
are seated. 

RICE GRIDDLE-CAKES. 

Boil half a cup rice; when cold, mix one quart sweet 
milk, the yolks of four eggs, and flour sufficient to make a 
stiff batter; beat the whites to a froth, stir in one teaspoon 
soda, and two of cream tartar; add a little salt, and lastly, 
the whites of eggs; bake on a griddle. A nice way to serve 
is to spread them while hot with butter, and almost any 
kind of preserves or jelly; roll them up neatly, cut off the 
ends, sprinkle them with sugar, and serve immediately. 



130 THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 



FRENCH PANCAKES. 

Two eggs, two ounces of butter, two ounces of sifted 
sugar, two ounces of flour, half pint of new milk. Beat 
the eggs thoroughly, and put them into a basin with the 
butter, which should be beaten to a cream; stir in the sugar 
and flour, and when these ingredients are well mixed, add 
the milk; keep stirring and beating the mixture for a few 
minutes; put it on buttered plates, and bake in a quick 
oven for twenty minutes. Serve with a cut lemon and sifted 
sugar, or pile the pancakes high on a dish, with a layer of 
preserve or marmalade between each. 

PANCAKES. 

Two cups of prepared flour; six eggs; one saltspoonfnl 
of salt; milk to make a thin batter. Beat the eggs light; 
add salt, two cups of milk, then the whites and flour alter- 
nately with milk, until the batter is of the right consist- 
ency. Run a teaspoonful of lard over the bottom of a hot 
frying-pan, pour in a large ladlef ul of batter and fry quickly. 
Roll the pancake up like a sheet of paper; lay upon a hot 
dish; put in more lard, and fry another pancake. Keep hot 
over boiling water, sending half a dozen to the table at a 
time. 

BREAD FRITTERS. 

One quart milk— boiling hot; two cups fine bread-crumbs; 
three eggs; one teaspoonful nutmeg; one tablespoonful but- 
ter — melted; one saltspoonful salt, and the same of soda, 
dissolved in hot water. Soak the bread in the boiling milk 
ten minutes, in a covered bowl. Beat to a smooth paste; 
1 the whipped yolks, the butter, salt, soda, and finally the 
whites, whipped stii£ 



THE E^EK YDA Y COOK n00K. 137 

QUICK SALLY LUNN. 

One cup of sugar, half cup of butter; stir well together, 
and then add one or two eggs; put in owe good pint of sweet 
milk, and with sufficient flour to make 51 batter about as 
stiff as cake; put in three teaspoons of baking powder; bake 
and eat hot with butter, for tea or breakfast. 

BREAKFAST CAKE. 

One pint of flour, three tablespoons_of butter, three table- 
spoons of sugar, one egg, one cup sweet milk, one teaspoon 
cream tartar, half teaspoon soda; to be eaten with butter. 

QUICK WAFFLES. 

Two pints sweet milk, one cup butter (melted), sifted flour 
to make a soft batter; add the well-beaten yolks of six 
egg*, then the beaten whites, and lastly (just before baking), 
four teaspoons baking powder, beating very hard and fast 
for a few minutes. These are very good with four or five 
eggs, but much better with more. 

JOHNNY CAKE. 

Two-thirds teaspoon soda, three tablespoons sugar, one 
teaspoon cream tartar, one egg, one cup sweet milk, six 
tablespoons Indian meal, three tablespoonfuls flour, and a 
little salt. This makes a thin batter. 

MUSH. 

Indian or oatmeal mush is best made in the following 
manner: Put fresh water in a kettle over the Are to boil, 
and put in some salt; when the water boils, stir in handful 
by handful corn or oatmeal until thick enough for use. In 
order to have excellent mush, the meal should be allowed 
to cook well and long as possible while thin, and before 



138 THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 

the final handful is added. When desired to be fried for 
breakfast, turn into an earthen dish and set away to cool 
Then cut in slices when you wish to fry; dip each piece in 
beaten eggs and fry on a hot griddle. 

CORN MUSH. 

Put four quarts fresh water in a kettle to boil, salt to suit 
the taste; when it begins to boil stir in one and a half 
quarts meal, letting it sift through the fingers slowly to pre- 
vent lumps, adding it a little faster at the last, until as thick 
as can be conveniently stirred with one hand; set in the 
oven in the kettle, (or take out into a pan), bake an hour, 
and it will be thoroughly cooked. It takes corn meal so long 
to cook thoroughly that it is very difficult to boil it until done 
without burning. Excellent for frying when cold. Use a 
hard wood paddle, two feet long, with a blade two inches 
wide and seven inches long, to stir with. The thorough 
cooking and baking in oven afterwards takes away all the 
raw taste that mush is apt to have, and adds much to its 
sweetness and delicious flavor. 

GRAHAM MUSH. 

Sift meal slowly into boiling salted water, stirring briskly 
until it is as thick as can be stirred with one hand; serve 
with milk, or cream and sugar, or butter and syrup. It is 
much improved by removing from the kettle to a pan as 
soon as thoroughly mixed, and steaming for three or four 
hours. It may also be eaten cold, or sliced and fried like 
corn mush. 



THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 139 



SALADS, PICKLES AND CATSUP, 



LETTUCE. 

The early lettuce, and first fine salad, are five or six 
leaves in a cluster; their early appearance is their greatest 
recommendation; cabbage or white-heart lettuce is later 
and much more delicate; break the leaves apart one by one 
from the stalk* and throw them into a pan of cold water; 
rinse them well, lay them into a salad bowl or a deep dish, 
lay the largest leaves first, put the next size upon them, 
then lay on the finest white leaves; cut hard-boiled eggs in 
slices or quarters and lay them at equal distances around 
the edge and over the salad; serve with vinegar, oil, and 
made mustard in the castor. Or, having picked and washed 
the lettuce, cut the leaves small; put the cut salad in a 
glass dish or bow], pour a salad dressing over and serve; 
or, garnish with small red radishes, cut in halves or slices, 
and hard-boiled eggs cut in quarters or slices; pour a salad 
dressing over when ready to serve. Serve with boiled lob- 
ster, boiled fowls, or roasted lamb or veaL 

LETTUCE SALAD. 

Take the yolks of three hard-boiled eggs, add salt and 
mustard to taste; mash it fine; make a paste by adding a 
dessertspoon of olive oil or melted butter (use butter al- 
ways when it is difficult to get fresh oil) ; mix thoroughly, 
and then dilute by adding gradually a teacup of vinegar, 



HO THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 

and pour over the lettuce. Garnish by slicing another egg 
and laying over the lettuce. This is sufficient for a moder- 
ate-sized dish of lettuce. 



SALMON SALAD. 

One quart of cooked salmon, two heads of lettuce, two 
tablespoonfuis of lemon-juice, one of vinegar, two of capers, 
one teaspoonful of salt, one-third of a teaspoonful of pep- 
per, one cupful of mayonnaise dressing, or the French 
dressing. Break up the salmon with two silver forks. Add 
to it the salt, pepper, vinegar and lemon-juice. Pat in the 
ice-chest or some other cold place, for two or three hours. 
Prepare the lettuce as directed for lobster salad. At serv- 
ing time, pick out leaves enough to border the dish. Cut 
or tear the remainder in pieces, and arrange these in the 
centre of a flat dish. On them heap the salmon lightly, 
and cover with the dressing. Now sprinkle on the capers. 
Arrange the whole leaves at the base; and, if you choose, 
lay one-fourth of a thin slice of lemon on each leal 

LOBSTER SALAD. 

Put a large lobster over the fire in boiling water slightly 
salted; boil rapidly for about twenty minutes; when done 
it will be of a bright red color, and should be removed, as 
if boiled too long it will be tough; when cold, crack the 
claws, after first disjointing, twist off the head (which is 
used in garnishing), split the body in two lengthwise, pick 
out the meat in bits not too fine, saving the coral separate; 
cut up a large head of lettuce slightly, and place on a dish 
over which lay the lobster, putting the coral around the 
outside. For dressing, take the yolks of three eggs, beat 
well, add four tablespoons salad oil, dropping it in very 
slowly, beating all the time; then add a little salt, Cayenne 



THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 141 

pepper, half teaspoon mixed mustard, and two tablespoons 
vinegar. Pour this over the lobster, just before sending 
to table. 

TOMATO SALAD. 

Take the jkin, juice and seeds from nice, fresh tomatoes, 
chop what ibmains with celery, and add a good salad- 
dressing. 

SALAD DRESSING. 

Yolks of two hard-boiled eggs rubbed very fine and 
smooth, one teaspoon English mustard, one of salt, the 
yolks of two raw errgs beaten into the other, dessertspoon 
of fine sugar. Add very fresh sweet oil poured in by very 
small quantities, and beaten as long as the mixture contin- 
ues to thicken, then ad3 vinegar till as thin as desired. If 
not hot enough with mustard, add a little Cayenne pepper. 



SARDINE SALAD. 

Arrange one quart of any kind of cooked fish on a bed of 
crisp lettuce. Split six sardines, and if there are any bones, 
remove them. Cover the fish with the sardine dressing. 
Over this put the sardines, having the ends meet in the 
center of the dish. At the base of the dish make a wreath 
of thin slices of lemon. Garnish with parsley or lettuce, 
and serve immediately. 

FRENCH SALAD DRESSING. 

Three tablespoonfuls of oil, one of vinegar, one salt- 
spoonful of salt, one-half a saltspoonful of pepper. Put 
the salt and pepper in a cup, and add one tablespoonful 
of the oil. When thoroughly mixed, add the remainder 



142 THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOR. 

of the oil and the vinegar. This is dressing enough for a 
salad for six persons. If you like the flavor of onion, grate 
a little juice into the dressing. The juice is obtained by 
first peeling the onion, and then grating with a coarse 
grater, using a good deal of pressure. Two strokes will 
give about two drops of juice. 

CREAM DRESSING FOR COLD SLAW. 

Two tablespoons whipped sweet cream, two of sugar, and 
four of vinegar; beat well and pour over cabbage, previ- 
ously cut very fine and seasoned with salt. 

CHICKEN SALAD, 

Boil one chicken tender; chop moderately fine the whites 
of twelve hard-boiled eggs and the chicken; add equal 
quantities of chopped celery and cabbage; mash the yolks 
fine, add two tablespoons butter, two of sugar, one teaspoon 
mustard; pepper and .salt to taste; and lastly, one-half cup 
good cider vinegar; pour over the salad, and mix thor- 
oughly. If no celery is at hand, use chopped pickled 
cucumbers or lettuce and celery seed. This may be mixed 
two or three days before using. 

RED VEGETABLE SALAD. 

One pint of cold boiled potatoes, one pint of cold boiled 
beets, one pint of uncooked red cabbage, six tablespoonfuls 
of oil, eight of red vinegar (that in which beets have been 
pickled), two teaspoonfuls of salt (unless the vegetables 
have been cooked in salted water), half a teaspoonful of 
pepper. Cut the potatoes in thin slices and the beets fine, 
and slice the cabbage as thin as possible. Mix all the in- 
gredients. Let stand in a cold place one hour; then serve. 
Bed cabbage and celery may be used together. 



THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 143 



CELERY SALAD. 

One boiled egg, one raw egg, one tablespoonful salad oil, 
one teaspoonful white sugar, one saltspoonful of salt, one 
saltspoon of pepper, four tablespoonfuls of vinegar, one 
teaspoonful made mustard. Prepare the dressing as for 
tomato salad; cat the celery into bits half an inch long, and 
season. Eat at once, before the vinegar injures the crisp- 
ness of the vegetable. 

COLD SLAW. 

Chop or shred a small white cabbage. Prepare a dress- 
ing in the proportion of one tablespoonful of oil to four of 
vinegar, a teaspoonful of made mustard, the same quantity 
of salt and sugar, and half as much pepper. Pour over the 
salad, adding, if you choose, three tablespoonfuls of minced 
celery; toss up well and put into a glass bowL 

SALAD DRESSING (Excellent). 

JFour eggs, one teaspoonful of mixed mustard, one-qtmr- 
ter teaspoonful of white pepper, half that quantity of 
Cayenne, salt to taste, four tablespoonfuls of cream, 
vinegar. 

Boil the eggs until hard, which will be in about one- 
quarter hour or twenty minutes; put them into cold water, 
take off the shells, and pound the yolks in a mortar to a 
smooth paste. Then add all the other ingredients, except 
the vinegar, and stir them well until the whole are thor- 
oughly incorporated one with the other. Pour in suuicient 
vinegar to make it of the consistency of cream,4aking care 
to add but little at a time. The mixture will then be ready 
for use. 



144 THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 



PICKLED CUCUMBERS. 

Wash and wipe six hundred small cucumbers and two 
quarts of peppers. Put them in a tub with one and a half 
cupfuls of salt and a piece of alum as large as an egg. 
Heat to the boiling point three gallons of cider vinegar and 
three pints of water. Add a quarter of a pound each of 
whole cloves, whole allspice and stick cinnamon, and two 
ounces of white mustard seed, and pour over the pickles. 

TO PICKLE ONIONS. 

Peel the onions until they are white, scald them in strong 
salt and water, then take them up with a skimmer; make 
vinegar enough to cover them, boiling hot; strew over the 
onions whole pepper and white mustard seed, pour the 
vinegar over to cover them; when cold, put them in wide- 
mouthed bottles, and cork them close. A tablespoonful of 
sweet oil may be put in the bottles before the cork. The 
best sort of onions for pickling are the small white 
buttons. 

PICKLED CAULIFLOWERS. 

Two cauliflowers, cut up; one pint of small onions, three 
medium-sized red peppers. Dissolve half a pint of salt in 
water enough to cover the vegetables, and let these stand 
over night. In the morning drain them. Heat two quarts 
of vinegar with four tablespoonfuls of mustard, until it 
boils. Add the vegetables, and boil for about fifteen min- 
utes, or until a fork can be thrust through the cauliflower. 

RED CABBAGE. 

Procure a firm good-sized cabbage, and after taking 
off any straggling or soiled leaves, cut it in very narrow 



THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 145 

slices, which, after you sprinkle them well with salt, lay 
aside for forty-eight hours. Next drain off the salt liquor 
which has formed, and pour over the cabbage a well-sea- 
soned pickle of boiling hot vinegar; black pepper and gin- 
ger are best for seasoning. Cover the pickle jars till the 
cabbage is cold, and then cork. 

TO PICKLE TOMATOES. 

Take the round, smooth green tomatoes, put them in salt 
and water, cover the vessel and put them over the fire to 
scald; that is, to let the water become boiling hot; then set 
the kettle off; take them from the pot into a basin of cold 
water; to enough cold vinegar to cover them, put whole 
pepper and mustard seed; when the tomatoes are cold take 
them from the water, cut each in two across, shake out the 
seeds and wipe the inside dry with a cloth, then put them 
into glass jars, and cover with the vinegar; cork them closo 
or with a close-fitting tin cover. 

RIPE TOMATO PICKLES. 

To seven pounds of ripe tomatoes add three pounds 
sugar, one quart vinegar; boil them together fifteen min- 
utes, skim out the tomatoes and boil the syrup a few min- 
utes longer. Spice to suit the taste with cloves and cin- 
namon. 

CHOPPED PICKLE. 

One peck of green tomatoes, two quarts of onions and 
two of peppers. Chop all fine, separately, and mix, adding 
three cupful3 of salt. Let them stand over night, and in 
the morning drain well. Add half a pound of mustard seed, 
two tablespoonfuls of ground allspice, two of ground cloves 
and one cupful of grated horseradish. Pour over it three 
quarts of boiling vinegar. 
1» 



146 THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 



CHOW CHOW. 

One peck of green tomatoe3, half peck string beans, quar- 
ter peck small white onions, quarter pint green and red pep- 
pers mixed, two large heads cabbage, four tablespoons white 
mustard seed, two of white or black cloves, two of celery 
seed, two of allspice, one small box yellow mustard, pound 
brown sugar, one ounce of turmeric; slice the tomatoes and 
let stand over night in brine that will bear an egg; then 
squeeze out brine, chop cabbage, onions and beans; chop 
tomatoes separately, mix with the spices, put all in porce- 
lain kettle, cover with vinegar and boil three hours. 

PICCALILLI. 

One peck of green tomatoes; (if the flavor of onions is 
desired, take eight, but it is very nice without any); four 
green peppers; slice all, and put in layers, sprinkle on one 
cup of salt, and let them remain over night; in the morning 
press dry through a sieve, put it in a porcelain kettle and 
cover with vinegar; add one cup of sugar, a tablespoon of 
each kind of spice; put into a muslin bag; stew slowly 
about an hour, or until the tomatoes are as soft as you 
desire. 

PICKLED WALNUTS (Very Good). 

One hundred walnuts, salt and water. To each quart 
of vinegar allow two ounces of whole bl&ck pepper, 
one ounce of allspice, one ounce of bruised ginger. 
Procure the walnuts while young; be careful they 
are not woody, and prick them well with a fork; 
prepare a strong brine of salt and water (four pounds 
of salt to each gallon of water), into which put the walnuts, 
letting them remain nine days, and changing the brine every 



THE EVERYDAY COOK- BOOK. 147 

third day; drain them off, put them on a dish, place it in the 
Bun until they become perfectly black, which will be in two 
or three days; have ready dry jars, into which place the 
walnuts, and do not quite fill the jars. Boil sufficient vine- 
gar to cover them, for ten minutes, with spices in the above 
proportion, and pour it hot over the walnuts, which must 
be quite covered with the pickle; tie down with bladder, 
and keep in dry place. They will be fit for use in a month, 
and will keep good two or three years, 

GREEN TOMATO PICKLE. 

One peck green tomatoes sliced, six large onions sliced, 
one teacup of salt over both ; mix thoroughly and let it re- 
main over night; pour off liquor in the morning and throw 
it away; mix two quarts of water and one of vinegar, and 
boil twenty minutes; drain and throw liquor away; take 
three quarts of vinegar, two pounds of sugar, two table- 
spoons each of allspice, cloves, cinnamon, ginger, and mus- 
tard, and twelve green peppers chopped fine; boil from one 
to two hours. Put away in a stone crock. 

CHILI SAUCE. 

Eight quarts tomatoes, three cups of peppers, two cups of 
onions, three cups of sugar, one cup of salt, one and a half 
quarts of vinegar, three teaspoonfuls of cloves ; same quan- 
tity of cinnamon, two teaspoonfuls each of ginger and nut- 
meg; boil three hours; chop tomatoes, peppers, and onions 
yery fine; bottle up and seal. 



MIXED PICKLES. 

Three hundred small cucumbers, four green pe 
sliced fine, two large or three omall heads cauliflower, 




148 THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 

three heads white cabbage shaved fine, nine large onions 
sliced, one large root horseradish, one quart green beans cut 
one inch long, one quart green tomatoes sliced; put this 
mixture in a pretty strong brine twenty-four hours; drain 
three hours, then sprinkle in a quarter pound black and a 
quarter pound white mustard seed; also one tablespoon 
black ground pepper; let it come to a good boil in just 
vinegar enough to cover it, adding a little alum. Drain 
again, and when cold, mix in a half pint ground mustard; 
cover the whole with good cider vinegar; add turmeric 
enough to color, if you like. 

PICKLED MUSHROOMS. 

Sufficient vinegar to cover the mushrooms, to each quart 
of mushrooms, two blades pounded mace, one ounce ground 
pepper; salt to taste. Choose some nice young button- 
mushrooms for pickling, and rub off the skin with a piece 
of flannel and salt, and cut off the stalks; if very large, 
take out the red inside, and reject the black" ones, as they 
are too old. Pat them in a stewpan, sprinkle salt over 
them, with pounded mace and pepper in the above propor- 
tion; shake them well over a clear lire until the liquor 
flows, and keep them there until it is all dried up again; 
then add as much vinegar as will cover them; just let it 
simmer for one minute, and store it away in stone jars for 
use. • When cold, tie down with bladder, and keep in a dry 
place; they will remain good for a length of time, and are 
generally considered delicious. 

FAVORITE PICKLES. 

One quart raw cabbage chopped fine; one quart boiled 
beets chopped fine; two cups sugar, tablespoon salt, one 
teaspoon black pepper, a quarter teaspoon red pepper, one 



THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 149 

teaeup grated horseradish; cover with cold vinegar and 
keep from the air. 

TOMATO MUSTARD. 

Slice and boil for an honr, with six small red peppers, 
half bushel of ripe tomatoes; strain through a colander and 
boil for an hour with two tablespoonfuls of black pepper, 
two ounces of ginger, one ounce allspice, half ounce cloves, 
one-eighth ounce mace, quarter pound salt. When cold add 
two ounces mustard, two ounces curry powder, and one 
pint of vinegar. 

INDIAN CHETNEY. 

Eight ounces of sharp, sour apples, pared and cored, 
eight ounces of tomatoes, eight ounces of salt, eight ounces 
of brown sugar, eight ounces of stoned raisins, four ounces 
of Cayenne, four ounces of powdered ginger, two ounces of 
garlic, two ounces of shalots, three quarts of vinegar, one 
quart of lemon-juice. Chop the apples in small square 
pieces, and add to them the other ingredients. Mix the 
whole well together, and put in a well-covered jar. Keep 
this in a warm place, and stir every day for a month, taking 
care to put on the lid after this operation; strain, but do 
not squeeze it dry; store it away in clean jars or bottles for 
use, and the liquor will serve as an excellent sauce for meat 
or fish. 

PICKLED CHERRIES. 

Five pounds of cherries, stoned or not; one quart of 
vinegar, two pounds of sugar, one-half ounce of cinnamon, 
one-half ounce of cloves, one-half ounce of mace, boil the 
sugar and vinegar and spices together (grind the spices and 
tie them in a muslin bag), and pour hot over the cherries. 



\ 



150 THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 



PICKLED PLUMS. 

To seven pounds plums, four pounds sugar, two ounces 
stick cinnamon, two ounces cloves, one quart vinegar, add 
a little mace; put in the jar first a layer of plums, then a 
layer of spices alternately; scald the vinegar and sugar to- 
gether, pour it over the plums; repeat three times for plums 
(only once for cut apples and pears), the fourth time scald 
all together, put them into glass jars and they are ready for 
use. 

SPICED PLUMS. 

Make a syrup, allowing one pound of sugar to one of 
plums, and to every three pounds of sugar a scant pint of 
vinegar. Allow one ounce each of ground cinnamon, cloves, 
mace, and allspice to a peck of plums. Prick the plums. 
Add the spices to the syrup, and pour, boiling, over the 
plums. Let these stand three days; then skim them out, 
and boil down the syrup until it is quite thick, and pour 
hot over the plums in the jar in which they are to be kept 
Cover closely. 

PEACHES, PEARS, AND SWEET APPLES. 

For six pounds of fruit use three of sugar, about five 
dozen cloves, and a pint of vinegar. Into each apple, pear, 
or peach, stick two cloves. Have the syrup hot, and cook 
until tender. 

TOMATO CATSUP. 

Take one gallon of skinned tomatoes, four tablespoonfuls 
of salt, four ditto of whole black pepper, half a spoonful of 
allspice, eight pods of red pepper, and three spoonfuls of 
mustard, boil them together for one hour, then strain it 
through a sieve or coarse cloth, and wheji cold, bottle for 
n p; have the best velvet corks. 



THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 161 



WALNUT CATSUP. 

Bruise to a mass one hundred and twenty green walnuts, 
gathered when a pin could pierce one; put to it three-quar- 
ters of a pound of salt and a quart of good vinegar; stir 
them every day for a fortnight, then strain and squeeze the 
liquor from them through a cloth, and set it aside, put to 
the hutiks half a pint of vinegar, and let it stand all night, 
then strain and squeeze them as before; put the liquor from 
them *o that which was put aside, add to it one ounce and a 
quarter of whole pepper, forty cloves, half an ounce of nut- 
meg sliced, and half an ounce of ginger, and boil it for half 
an hour closely covered, then strain it; when cold, bottle it 
for use. Secure the bottles with new corks, and dip them in 
melted rosin. 

MUSHROOM CATSUP. 

To each peck of mushrooms one-half pound of salt; to 
each quart of mushroom liquor one-quarter ounce of Cay- 
enne, one-half ounce of allspice, one-half ounce of ginger, 
two blades of pounded mace. Choose full-grown mush- 
room-flaps, and take care they are perfectly fresh-gathered 
when the weather is tolerably dry; for, if they are picked 
during very heavy rain the catsup from which they are 
made is liable to get musty, and will not keep long. Put a 
layer of them in a deep pan, sprinkle salt over them, and 
then another layer of mushrooms, and so on alternately. 
Let them remain for a few hours, then break them up with 
the hand; put them in a nice cool place for three days, oc- 
casionally stirring and mashing them well to extract from 
them as much juice as possible. Now measure the quantity 
of liquor without straining, and to each quart allow the 
above proportion of spices, etc. Put all into a stone jar, 
cover it up very closely, put it in a saucepan of boiling 
water, set it over the are, and let it boil for three hours. 



152 THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 

Have ready a nice clean stewpan; turn into it the contents 
of the jar, and let the whole simmer very gently for half an 
hour; pour into a jug, where it should stand in a cool place 
till next day; then pour it off into another jug, and strain 
it into very dry, clean bottles, and do not squeeze the 
mushrooms. To each pint of catsup add a few drops of 
brandy. Be careful not to shake the contents, but leave 
all the sediment behind in the jug; cork well, and either 
seal or rosin the cork, so as perfectly to exclude the air. 
When a very clear, bright catsup is wanted, the liquor must 
be strained through a very fine hair-sieve, or flannel bag, 
after it has been very gently poured off; if the operation is 
not successful, it must be repeated until you have quite a 
clear liquor. It should be examined occasionally, and if it 
is spoiling should be reboiled with a few peppercorns. 

BRINE THAT PRESERVES BUTTER A YEAR 

To three gallons of brine strong enough to bear an egg, 
add one-quarter pound good loaf sugar, and one tablespoon- 
ful of saltpetre; boil the brine, and when it is cold strain 
carefully. Pack butter closely in small jars, and allow the 
brine to cover the butter to the depth of at least four inches. 
This completely excludes the air. If practicable make your 
butter into small rolls, wrap each carefully in a clean mus- 
lin cloth, tying up with a string; place a weight over the 
butter to keep it all submerged in the brine. This mode is 
most recommended by those who have tried both, 

BUTTER IN HASTE, 

FROM WINTER CREAM, OR FROM THE MILK OF ONE COW. 

Take milk fresh from the cow, strain it into clean pan9, 
set it over a gentle fire until it is scalding hot; do not let it 
boil; then set it aside; when it is cold skim off the cream; 
the milk will still be fit for any ordinary use; when you hava 



THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 153 

enough cream, put it into a clean earthen basin; beat it 
with a wooden spoon until the butter is made, which will 
not be long; then take it from the milk and work with a 
little cold water, until it is free from miik, then drain off 
the water, put a small tablespoonful of fine salt to each 
pound of butter, and work it in. A small teaspoonful of 
fine white sugar, worked in with the salt, will be found an 
improvement — sugar is a great preservative. Make the 
butter in a roll; cover with a bit of muslin, and keep it in a 
cool place. 

This receipt was obtained from one who practiced it for 
several winters. 



154 2MB XVEBYDAY COOK-BOOK. 



PUDDINGS. 



GENERAL REMARKS. 

All boiled pudding should be put on in boiling water, which 
must not be allowed to stop simmering, and the pudding 
must always be covered with the water; if requisite the 
saucepan should be kept filled up. To prevent a pudding 
boiled in a cloth from sticking to the bottom of the sauce- 
pan, place a small plate or saucer underneath it, if a mold is 
used, this precaution is not necessary; but care must be 
taken to keep the pudding well covered with water. For 
dishing a boiled pudding as soon as it comes out of the 
pot, dip it into a basin of cold water, and the cloth will then 
not adhere to it. Great expedition is necessary in sending 
puddings to table, as, by standing, they quickly become 
heavy, batter puddings particularly. For baked or boiled 
puddings, the molds, cups, or basins should be always but- 
tered before the mixture is put into them, and they should 
be put into the saucepan directly they are filled. 

CHRISTMAS PLUM PUDDING. 

One pound butter, one pound suet, freed from strings 
and chopped fine, one pound sugar, two and a half pounds 
Sour, two pounds raisins, seeded, chopped and dredged with 
flour, two pounds currants, picked over carefully after they 
are washed, one-quarter pound citron, shred fine, twelve 
eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately, one pint milk, one 
cup brandv, one-half ounce cloves, one-half ounce mace, 



THE EVER YD A Y COOK-BOOK. 155 

two grated nutmegs. Cream the butter and sugar, beat in 
the yolks when you have whipped them smooth and light; 
next put in the milk, then the flour, alternately with the 
beaten whites, then the brandy and spice, lastly the fruit, 
well dredged with flour. Mis all thoroughly wring out 
your pudding-cloth in hot water, flour well inside, pour in 
the mixture and boil Ave hours. 



BOILED BATTER PUDDING. 

Three eggs, one ounce butter, one pint milk, three table- 
spoonfuls flour, a little salt. Put the flour into a basin, and 
add suflicient milk to moisten it; carefully rub down all 
the lumps with a spoon, then pour in the remainder of the 
milk, and stir in the butter, which should be previously 
melted; keep beating the mixture, add the eggs and a pinch 
of salt, and when the batter is quite smooth, put it into a 
well-buttered basin, tie it down very tightly, and put it into 
boiling water; move the basin about for a few minutes after 
it is put into the water, to prevent the flour settling in any 
part, and boil for one and one-quarter hours. This pud- 
ding may also be boiled in a floured cloth that has been 
wetted in hot water; it will then take a few minutes less 
than when boiled in a basin. Send these puddings very 
quickly to table, and serve with sweet sauce, wine sauce, 
stewed fruit, or jam of any kind; when the latter is used, a 
little of it may be placed round the dish in small quantities, 
as a garnish. 

BATTER PUDDING. 

One quart milk, four eggs, six ounces flour, a little soda 
and salt. Mix the flour very carefully with a little milk so 
it will not be lumpy. Bake twenty minutes. Serve imme- 
diately. 



156 THE EVER YD AT COOK-BOOK. 

MADEIRA PUDDING. 

One-half pound cheap suet, three-quarters of a potmcl 
bread-crumbs, six ounces moist sugar, one-quarter pound 
flour, two eggs, two wineglasses sherry; mix the suet, 
bread-crumbs, sugar and flour well together. When these 
ingredients are well-mixed, add the eggs and two glasses of 
sherry, to make a thick batter; boil three hours and a half. 
Serve with wine sauce. 

APPLE SAGO PUDDING. 

One cup sago in a quart of tepid water, with a pinch of 
Bait, soaked for one hour; six or eight apples, pared and 
cored, or quartered, and steamed tender, and put in the 
pudding dish; boil and stir the sago until clear, adding 
water to make it thin, and pour it over the apples; this 
is good hot with butter and sugar, or cold with cream and 
sugar. 

QUEEN OF PUDDINGS. 

One large cup of fine bread-crumbs soaked in milk, three- 
quarters cup sugar, one lemon, juice and grated rind, six 
eggs, one-half pound stale sponge cake, one-half pound 
macaroons — almond, one-half cup jelly or jam, and one 
small tumbler sherry wine, one-half cup milk poured upon 
the bread-crumbs, one tablespoonful melted butter. Hub 
the butter and sugar together; put the beaten yolks in next, 
then the soaked bread-crumbs, the lemon, juice and rind, 
and beat to a smooth, light paste before adding the whites. 
Butter your mold very well, and put in the bottom a light 
layer of dry bread-crumbs, upon this one of macaroons, 
laid evenly and closely together. Wet this with wine, and 
cover with a layer of the mixture, then with slices of sponge 
cake, spread thickly with jelly or jam; next macaroons, wet 



THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 157 

with wine, more custard, sponge-cake and jam, and so on 
until the mold is full, putting a layer of the mixture at the 
top. Cover closely, and steam in the oven three-quarters of 
an hour; then remove the cover to brown the top. Turn 
cut carefully into a dish, and pour over it a sauce made of 
currant jelly warmed, and beaten up with two tablespoon- 
fuls melted butter and a glass of pale sherry. 

ORANGE PUDDING. 

Peel and cut five sweet oranges into thin slices, taking 
out the seeds, pour over them a coffee-cup of white sugar; 
let a pint of milk get boiling hot, by setting it in a pot of 
boiliDg water; add the yolks of three eggs well beaten, one 
tablespoonful of corn starch, made smooth with a little 
cold milk: stir all the time; as soon as thickened pour over 
the fruit. Beat the whites to a stiff froth, adding a table- 
spoonful of sugar, and spread over the top for frosting; set 
it in the oven for a few minutes to harden; eat cold or hot 
(better cold), for dinner and supper. Berries or peaches 
can be substituted for oranges. 

CORN STARCH PUDDING. 

One pint sweet milk, whites of three eggs, two tablespoons 
corn starch, three of sugar, a little salt. Put the milk in a pan 
or small bucket, set in a kettle of hot water on the stove, and 
when it reaches the boiling point add the sugar, then the 
starch dissolved in a little cold milk, and lastly the whites of 
eggs whipped to a stiff froth; beat it, and let . cook for a few 
minutes, then pour into teacups, filling about half full, and 
set in cool place. For sauce, make a boiled custard as follows: 
Bring to boiling point one pint of milk, add three table- 
spoons sugar, then the beaten yolks thinned by adding ono 
tablespoon milk, stirring all the time till it thickens; flavor 



158 THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 

with two teaspoons lemon or two of vanilla, and set to 
cool. In serving, put one of the molds in a saucedish for 
each person, and pour over it some of the boiled custard. 
Or the pudding may be made intne large mold. 

To make a chocolate puddiug, flavor the above pudding 
with vanilla, remove two-thirds of it, and add half a cake 
of chocolate softened, mashed, and dissolved in a little 
milk. Put a layer of half the white pudding into the mold, 
then the chocolate, then the rest of the white; or two layers 
of chocolate may be used with a white between; or the 
centre may be cocoa (made by adding half a cocoanut 
grated line), and the outside chocolate; or pineapple 
chopped fine (if first cooked in a little water, the latter 
makes a nice dressing), or strawberries may be used. 



FRENCH PUDDING. 

One quart of milk, three tablespoons of corn starch, 
yolks of four eggs, half cup sugar and a little salt; put part 
of the milk, salt and sugar on the stove and let it boil; 
dissolve the corn starch in the rest of the milk ; stir into 
the milk, and while boiling add the yolks. Flavor with 
vanilla. 

Frosting. — Whites of four eggs beaten to a stiff froth, 
half a cup of sugar; flavor with lemon; spread it on the 
pudding, and put it into the oven to brown, saving a little 
of the frosting to moisten the top; then put on grated co- 
coanut to give it the appearance of snow-flake. 

BELLE'S PUDDING. 

Soak for an hour in a pint of cold water one box of 
Cox's sparkling gelatine, and add one pint of boiling 
water, one pint of wine, the juice of four lemons, and three 
large cupfuls of sugar. Beat the whites of four eggs to a 



THE EVEBYDAY COOK-BOOK. 153 

stiff froth, and stir into the jelly when it begins to thicken. 
Pour into a large mold, and set in ice- water in a cool place. 
When ready to serve, turn out as you would jelly, only 
have the pudding in a deep dish. Pour on© quart of soft 
custard around it, and serve. 

CREAM TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

Soak three tablespoons of tapioca in water over night; 
put the tapioca into a quart of boiling milk, and boil half 
an hour; beat the yolk3 of four eggs with a cup of sugar; 
add three tablespoons of prepared cocoanut; stir in and 
boil ten minutes longer; pour into a pudding-dish; beat the 
whites of four eggs to a stiff froth, stir in three tablespoons 
of sugar; put this over the top and sprinkle cocoaaut over 
the top and brown for five minutes. 

A BACHELOR'S PUDDING. 

Four ounces of grated bread, four ounces of currants, 
four ounces of apples, two ounces of sugar, three eggs, a 
few drops of essence of lemon, a little grated nutmeg. 
Pare, core, and mince the apples very finely, sufficient, 
when minced, to make four ounces; add to these the cur- 
rants, which should be well washed, the grated bread, and 
sugar; whisk the eggs, beat these up with the remaining 
ingredients, and, when all is thoroughly mixed, put the 
pudding into a buttered basin, tie it down with a cloth, and 
boil for three hours. 

MACARONI PUDDING. 

One-half pound macaroni broken into inch lengths, 
two cups boiling water, one teaspoonful butter, one 
large cup milk, tvvo tablespoonful3 sugar, grated peel o» 



160 THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOO^. 

half a lemon, a little cinnamon and salt. Boil the macaroni 
in the water until it is tender, and has soaked up the liquid. 
It must be cooked in a farina -kettle. Add the butter and 
salt. Cover for five minutes without cooking. Put in the 
rest of the ingredients. Simmer, after the boil begins, ten 
minutes longer, before serving in a deep dish. Be careful, 
in stirring, not to break the macaroni. Eat with butter 
and powdered sugar, or cream and sugar. 

BAKED INDIAN PUDDING. 

Two quarts scalded milk with salt, one and one-half cups 
Indian meal (yellow) ; one tablespoon ginger, letting this 
stand twenty minutes; one cup molasses, two eggs (saleratus 
if no eggs), a piece of butter the size of a common walnut. 
Bake two hours. Splendid. 

BOILED INDIAN PUDDING. 

Warm a pint of molasses and pint of milk, stir well to- 
gether, beat four eggs, and stir gradually into molasses and 
milk; add a pound beef suet chopped fine, and Indian meal 
sufficient to make a thick batter; add a teaspoon pulverized 
cinnamon, nutmeg and a little grated lemon-peel, and stir 
all together thoroughly; dip cloth into boiling water, shake, 
flour a little, turn in the mixture, tie up, leaving room for 
the pudding to swell, and boil three hours; serve hot with 
sauce made of drawn butter, wine and nutmeg. 

MARMALADE PUDDINGS. 

Half pound suet, half pound grated bread-crumbs, half 
pound sugar, three ounces orange marmalade; mix these in- 
gredients together with four eggs; boil four hours. Lay a 
few raisins open in the bottom of the mold. Sauce: Two 



THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 161 

ounces butter, and two ounces white sugar; beat to a cream 
and flavor with brandy or lemon. 

BOILED APPLE DUMPLINGS. 

Add to two cups sour milk one teaspoon soda, and one 
salt, half cup butter, lard, flour enough to make dough a 
little stiffer than for biscuit; or make a good baking powder 
crust; peel and core apples, roll out crust, place apples on 
dough, fill cavity of each with sugar, encase each apple in 
coating of the crust, press edges tight together, (it is nice 
to tie a cloth around each one), put into kettle of boiling 
water slighted salted, boil half an hour, taking care that 
the water covers the dumplings. They are also very nice 
steamed. To bake, make in same way, using a soft dough, 
place in a shallow pan, bake in a hot oven, and serve with 
cream and sugar, or place in a pan which is four or five 
inches deep (do not have the dumplings touch each other); 
then pour in hot water, just leaving top of dumplings un- 
covered. To a pan of four or five dumplings, add one tea- 
cup sugar and half a teacup butter; bake from half to three- 
quarters of an hour. If water cooks away too much, add 
more. Serve dumplings on platter and the liquid in sauce- 
boat for dressing. Fresh or canned peaches may be made 
in the same way. 

NELLY'S PUDDING. 

Half pound flour, half pound treacle, half pound puet, the 
rind and juice of one lemon, a few strips of candied lemon- 
peel, three tablespoonfuls cream, two eggs. Chop the suet 
finely; mix with it the flour, treacle, lemon-peel minced, and 
candied lemon-peel; add the cream, lemon-juice, and two 
well-beaten eggs; beat the pudding well, put it into a but- 
tered basin, tie it down with a cloth, and boil from three juid 
a half to four hours. 



162 THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 



RICH BAKED APPLE PUDDING. 

Half pound the pulp of apples, half pound loaf sugar, els 
ounces butter, the rind one lemon, six eggs, puff paste. 
Peel, core and cut the apples, as for sauce; put them into 
a stewpan, with only just sufficient water to prevent them 
from burning, and let them stew until reduced to a pulp. 
Weigh the pulp, and to every half pound add sifted sugar, 
grated lemon-rind, and six well-beaten eggs. Beat those 
ingredients well together; then melt the butter, stir it to 
the other things, put a border of puff paste round the dish, 
and bake for rather more than half an hour. The butter 
should not be added until the pudding is ready for ths 
oven. 

SNOW BALLS. 

Pick all imperfections from a half pint of rice, put it in 
water, and rub it between the hands; then pour that water 
off, put more on, stir it about in it, let the rice settle, then 
drain the water off; put the rice in a two-quart stewpan, with 
a teaspoonful of salt, and a quart of water; cover the stew- 
pan, and set it where it will boil gently for one hour, or 
until the water is all absorbed; dip some teacups into cold 
water, fill them with the boiled rice, press it to their shape; 
then turn them out on a dish, and serve with butter and 
sugar, or wine sauce. 



RICE PUDDING. 

One teacup rice, one teacup sugar, one teacup raisins, 
small piece butter, a little salt, two quarts milk. Bake from 
an hour and a half to two hours. Serve with sauce. 



THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 163 



APPLE CHARLOTTE. 

Cut slices of wheat bread or rolls, and having rubbed the 
bottom and sides of a basin with a bit of butter, line it 
with the sliced bread or rolls; peel tart apples, cut them 
small, and nearly fill the pan, strewing bits of butter and 
sugar between the apples; grate a small nutmeg over; soak 
as many slices of bread or rolls as will cover it; over which 
put a plate, and a weight, to keep the bread close upon the 
apples; bake two hours in a quick oven, then turn it out. 
Quarter of a pound of butter, and half a pound of sugar, to 
half a peck of tart apples. 

GROUND RICE PUDDING. 

This is an economical pudding, made with two pints of 
Bweet milk, a teacupful of ground rice, two tablespoonfuls 
of sugar, three eggs, and a little ground nutmeg. Bring 
half the quantity of milk to the boiling point, with the nut- 
meg or any other flavoring matter, and sugar. In the 
other half of the milk beat up the rice flour into a thin bat- 
ter, adding to it through a strainer the hot seasoned milk, 
stirring all the time. The eggs well- whisked should next 
be added. A sprinkling of salt is an improvement. Bake 
this mixture in a moderate oven for a little over an hour, 
say seventy minutes, or boil in a buttered basin or shape. 
Serve with apricot preserve, or marmalade, or indeed any 
kind of jam. 

FIG PUDDING. 

One-half pound figs, one-quarter pound grated bread, 
two and a half ounces powdered sugar, three ounces butter, 
two eggs, one teacup of milk. Chop the figs small and mix 
first with the butter, then all the other ingredients by de- 



164 THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 

grees; butter a mold, sprinkle with bread-crumbs, cover it 
tight and boil for three hours. 

BREAD AND BUTTER PUDDING. 

Place as many slices of thin cut bread and butter as you 
like in a pie-dish, say ten or twelve slices, sprinkle a few 
well-washed currants between the layers, beat up half a 
dozen of eggs in two pints of new milk, adding sugar to 
taste and a little flavoring, such as nutmeg or cinnamon, 
and pour over the bread and butter. Bake for an hour 
and ten minutes, and send it to table in the dish it has been 
baked in. 

CABINET PUDDING. 

One quart of milk, four eggs, four tablespoonfuls of 
sugar, half a teaspoonful of salt, one tablespoonful of but- 
ter, three pints of stale sponge cake, one cupful of raisins, 
chopped citron and currants. Have a little more of the 
currants than of the two other fruits. Beat the eggs, sugar, 
and salt together, and add the milk. Butter a three-pint 
pudding mold (the melon shape is nice), sprinkle the sides 
and bottom with the fruit, and put in a layer of cake. 
Again sprinkle in fruit, and put in more cake. Continue 
this until all the materials are used. Gradually pour on 
the custard. Let the pudding stand two hours, and steam 
an hour and a quarter. Serve with wine or creamy sauce. 

SNOW PUDDING. 

One half package Cox's gelatine; pour over it a cup of 
cold water and add one and one-half cups of sugar; when 
soft, add one cup boiling water, juice of one lemon and the 
whites of four well-beatea eggs; beat all together until very 
light; put in a glass dish and pour over it custard made as 




• adding 



Koty-Poly Jell / 



PUDDINGS & PASTRY 



THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 165 

follows: One pint milk, yolks of four eggs, and grated rind 
of one lemon; boil. Splendid. 



CARROT PUDDING. 

One pound grated carrots, three-fourths pound chopped 
suet, half pound each raisins and currants, four tablespoons 
sugar, eight tablespoons flour, and spices to suit the taste. 
Boil four hours, place in the oven for twenty minutes, and 
serve with wine sauce. 



LEMON PUDDING. 

Half pound of sugar, half pound of butter, five eggs, hall 
gill brandy, rind and juice of one large lemon; beat well 
the butter and sugar, whisk the eggs, add them to the 
lemon, grate the peel, line a dish with puff-paste, and bake 
in a moderate oven. 

ROLY-POLY. 

Take one quart of flour; make good biscuit crust; roll 
out one-half inch thick and spread with any kind of fruit, 
fresh or preserved; fold so that the fruit will not run out; 
dip cloth into boiling water, and flour it and lay around 
the pudding closely, leaving room to swell; steam one and 
one-half hours; serve with boiled sauce; or lay in steamer 
without a cloth, and steam for one hour. 

COTTAGE PUDDING. 

One-half cup of sugar, one cup of milk, one pint of flour, 
three tablespoonfuls of melted butter, one teaspoonful soda, 
two of cream of tartar, two eggs, a little salt; bake one- 
quarter of an hour in small pans. 



166 THE EVERYDAY COOK- BOOK. 



COCOANUT PUDDING. 

Beat two eggs with one cupful of new milk; add one- 
quarter of a pound of grated cocoanut; mix with it three 
tablespoonf ills each of grated bread and powdered sugar* 
two ounces of melted butter, five ounces of raisins, and one 
teaspoonful of grated lemon-peel; beat the whole well 
together; pour the mixture into a buttered dish, and bake 
in a slow oven; then turn it out, dust sugar over it, and 
serve. This pudding may be either boiled or baked. 

CREAM PUDDING. 

Stir together one pint cream, three ounces sugar, the yolks 
of three eggs, and a little grated nutmeg; add the well- 
beaten whites, stirring lightly, and pour into a buttered pie- 
plate on which has been sprinkled the crumbs of stale 
bread to about the thickness of an ordinary crust; sprinkle 
over the top a layer of bread-crumbs, and bake. 

TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

Cover three tablespoons tapioca with water; stand over 
night; add one quart milk, a small piece of butter, a little 
salt, and boil; beat the yolks of three eggs with a cup of 
sugar, and boil the whole to a very thick custard, flavor 
with vanilla; when cold cover with whites of eggs beaten. 

COMMON CUSTARD. 

Beat either four or five fresh eggs light; then stir them 
into a quart of milk; sweeten to taste; flavor with a tea- 
spoonful of peach-water, or extract of lemon, or vanilla, 
aod half a teaspoonful of salt; rub butter over the bottom 
and sides of a baking-dish or tin basin ; pour in the custard, 
grate a little nutmeg over, and bake in a quick oven. Three- 



THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 167 

quarters of an hour is generally enough. Try whether it 
is done by putting a teaspoon handle into the middle of it; 
if it comes out clean, it is enough. 

Or butter small cups; set them into a shallow pan of hot 
water, reaching nearly to the top of the cups; nearly fill 
them with the custard mixture; keep the water boiling 
until they are done. The pan may be set in an oven, or 
hot shovel 



168 THE EVERYDAY COOK BOOK. 



PUDDING SAUCES, 



RICH WINE SAUCE. 

On© cupful of butter, two of powdered sugar, half a cup- 
ful of wine. Beat the butter to a cream. Add the sugar 
gradually, and when very light add the wine, which has 
been made hot, a little at a time. Place the bowl in a 
basin of hot water and stir for two minutes. The sauce 
should be smooth and foamy. 

WHIPPED CREAM SAUCE. 

Whip a pint of thick sweet cream, add the beaten whites 
of two eggs, sweeten to taste ; place pudding in centre of 
dish, and surround with the sauce; or pile up in centre and 
surround with molded blanc-mange, or fruit puddings. 

LEMON SAUCE. 

One cup of sugar, half a cup of butter, one egg, one lemon, 
juice and grated rind, three tablespoonfuls of boiling water; 
put in a tin pail and thicken over steam. 

JELLY SAUCE. 

Melt one ounce of sugar and two tablespoons grape 
jelly over the fire in a half pint of boiling water, and stir 
into it half a teaspoon corn starch dissolved in a half cup 
cold water; let it come to a boil, and it will be ready for 
use. Any other fruit jelly may be used instead of grape. 



THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK, 169 



CABINET PUDDING SAUCE. 

Take the yolks of five eggs and whip them lightly; express 
the juice of a lemon and grate down a little of the peel. 
The other ingredients are a tablespoon of butter, a cup of 
sugar, a glass of good wine, and a little spice. Mix the 
sugar and butter, adding the yolks, spice, and lemon-juice. 
Beat fifteen minutes, then add the wine, and stir hard. 
Immerse in a saucepan of boiling water, beating while it 
heats. 

FOAMING SAUCE 

Beat whites of three eggs to a stiff froth ; melt teacup of 
sugar in a little water, let it boil, stir in one glass of wine, 
and then the whites of the three eggs; serve at once. 

SPANISH SAUCE. 

One half cup of boiling water, one tablespoon corn starch, 
two tablespoonfuls vinegar, one tablespoonful of butter, on© 
cup sugar, one-balf nutmeg. 

HARD SAUCE. 

Beat to a cream a quarter of a pound of butter, add grad- 
ually a quarter of a pound of sugar; heat it until very 
white; add a little lemon-juice, or grate nutmeg on top. 

PUDDING SAUCE 

One cup of sugar, one-half cup of butter, yolks of three 
eggs; one teaspoon of corn starch or arrow-root; stir the 
whole until very light; add sufficient boiling water to make 
the consistency of thick cream; wine or brandy to suit the 
taste. 



170 THE EVERYDAY COOK BOOK. 



SAUCE FOR PLUM PUDDING. 

The yolks of three eggs, one tablespoonful of powdered 
sugar, one gill of milk, a very little grated lemon-rind, two 
small wineglassfuls of brandy. Separate the yolks from 
the whites of three eggs, and put the former into a stew- 
pan; add the sugar, milk, and grated lemon-rind, and stir 
over the fire until the mixture thickens; but do not allow it 
to boil. Put in the brandy; let the sauce stand by the side 
of the fire, to get quite hot; keep stirring it, and serve in a 
boat or tureen separately, or pour it over the pudding. 

VANILLA SAUCE. 

The whites of two eggs and the yolk of one, half a cupful 
of powdered sugar, one teaspoonful of vanilla, three table- 
spoonfuls of milk. Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff 
froth, next beat in the sugar, and then tli3 yolk of the egg 
and the seasoning. Serve immediately. This sauce is for 
light puddings. 



THB L VEBYDA Y COOK-BOOK. 172 



PASTRY. 



VERY GOOD PUFF-PASTE. 

To every pound of flour allow one pound of butter, and 
not quite one-half pint of water. Carefully weigh the flour 
and butter, and havo the exact proportion; squeeze the but- 
ter well, to extract the water from it, and afterwards wring 
it in a clean cloth, that no moisture may remain. Sift the 
flour; see that it is perfectly dry, and proceed in the follow- 
ing' manner to make the paste, using a very clean paste-board 
and rolling-pin. Supposing the quantity to be one pound 
of flour, work the whole into a smooth paste, with not quite 
one-half pint of water, using a knife to mix it with; the 
proportion of this latter ingredient must be regulated by 
the discretion of the cook ; if too much be added, the paste, 
when baked, will bo tough. Roll it out until it is of an 
equal thickness of about an inch; break four ounces of the 
butter into small pieces; place these on the paste, sift over it 
a little flour, fold it over, roll out again, and put another 
four ounces of butter. Repeat the rolling and buttering 
until the paste has been rolled out four times, or equal 
quantities of flour and butter have been used. Do not 
omit, every time the paste is rolled out, to dredge a little 
flour over that and the rolling-pin, to prevent both from 
sticking. Handle the paste as lightly as possible, and do 
not press heavily upon it with the rolling-pin. The next 
thing to be considered is the oven, as the baking of pastry 
requires particular attention. Do not put it into the oven 
until it is sufliciently hot to raise the paste; for the best- 



172 THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 

prepared paste, if not properly baked, will be good for 
nothing. Brushing the paste as often as rolled out, and 
the pieces of butter placed thereon, with the white of an 
egg, assists it to rise in leaves or flakes. As this is the great 
beauty of puff-paste, it is as well to try this method. 

PLAINER PASTE. 

One pound of flour, a little more for rolling-pin and 
board, and half a pound of butter and half a pound of lard. 
Cut the butter and lard through the flour (which should be 
sifted), and mix with sufficient ice-water to roll easily. 
Avoid kneading it, and use the hands as little as possible in 
mixing. 

SUET CRUST, FOR PIES OR PUDDINGS. 

To every pound of flour allow five or six ounces of beef 
suet, one-half pint of water. Free the suet from skin and 
shreds; chop it extremely fine, and rub it well into the 
flour; work the whole to a smooth paste with the above 
proportion of water; roll it out, and it is ready for use. 
This crust is quite rich enough for ordinary purposes; but 
when a better one is desired, use from one-half to three- 
quarters pound of suet to every pound of flour. Some 
cooks, for rich crusts, pound the suet in a mortar, with a 
small quantity of butter. It should then be laid on the 
paste in small pieces, the same as for puff-crust, and will be 
found exceedingly nice for hot tarts. Five ounces of suet 
to every pound of flour will make a very good crust; and 
even one-quarter pound will answer very well for children, 
or where the crust is wanted very plain, 

TO ICE PASTRY. 

To ice pastry, which is the usual method adopted for fruit 
tarts and sweet dishes of pastry, put the white of an egg 



THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 173 

on a plate, and with the blade of a knife beat it to a stiff 
froth. When ^he pastry is nearly baked, brush it over with 
thi3, and sift over some pounded sugar; put it back into 
the oven to set a glaze, and in a few minutes it will be done. 
Great care should be taken that the paste does not catch or 
burn in the oven, which it is very liable to do after the icing 
is laid on, 

TO GLAZE PASTRY. 

To glaze pastry, which is the usual method adopted for 
meat or raised pies, break an egg, separate the yolk from the 
white, and beat the former for a short time. Then, w hen 
the pastry is nearly baked, take it out of the oven, brush 
it over with this beaten yolk of egg t and put it back in the 
oven to set the glaze. 

MINCE-MEAT. 

Take five or six pounds scraggy beef — a neck piece will 
do — and put to boil in water enough to cover it; take off 
the scum that rises when it reaches the boiling point, add 
hot water from time to time until it is tender, then re- 
move the lid from the pot, salt, let boil till almost dry, 
turning the meat over occasionally in the liquor, take from the 
fire, and let stand over night to get thoroughly cold; pick 
bones, gristle, or stringy bits from the meat, chop very fine, 
mincing at the same time three pounds of nice beef suet; 
seed and cut four pounds raisins, wash and dry four pounds 
currants, slice thin a pound of citron, chop fine four quarts 
good cooking tart apples; put into a large pan together, 
add two ounces cinnamon, one of cloves, one of ginger, four 
nutmegs, the juice and grated rind of two lemons, one 
tablespoon salt, one teaspoon pepper, and two pounds sugar. 
Put in a porcelain kettle one quart boiled cider, or, better 
still, one quart currant or grape-juice (canned when grapes 



174 THE EVERYDAY LOOK-BOOR. 

are turning from green to purple), one quart nice molassea 
or syrup, also a good lump of butter; let it come to boiling 
point, and pour over the ingredients in the pan after hav- 
ing first mixed them well, then mix again thoroughly. Pack 
in jars and put in a cool place, and, when cold, pour molas- 
ses over the top an eighth of an inch in thickness, and 
cover tightly. This will keep two months. For baking, 
take some out of the jar; if not moist enough add a little 
hot water, and strew a few whole raisins over each pie. 
Instead of boiled beef, a beefs heart or roast meat may be 
used; and a good proportion for a few pies is one- third 
chopped meat and two-thirds apples, with a little suet, 
raisins, spices, butter, and salt. 

MOCK MINCE PIE. 

One egg t three or four large crackers, or six or eight 
small ones, one-half cup of molasses, one-half cup sugar, 
one-half cup vinegar, one-half cup strong tea, one rap 
chopped raisins, a small piece butter, spice and salt. 

APPLE CUSTARD PIE. 

Peel sour apples and stew until soft and not much water 
is left in them, and rub through a colander. Beat three 
eggs for each pie. Put in proportion of one cup butter 
and one of sugar for three pies. Season with nutmeg. 

APPLE MERINGUE PIE. 

Pare, slice, stew and sweeten ripe, tart and juicy apples, 
mash and season with nutmeg (or stew lemon-peel with 
them for flavor), fill crust and bake till done; spread over 
the apple a thick nieringue made by whipping to froth 
whites of three eggs for each pie, sweetening with three 
tablespoons powdered sugar; flavor with vanilla, beat 



THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 175 

until it will stand alone, and cover pie three-quarters of an 
inch thick. Set back in a quick oven till well "set," and 
eat cold. In their season substitute peaches for apples. 

APPLE PIE. 

Stew green or ripe apples, when you have pared and 
cored them. Mash to a smooth compote, sweeten to taste, 
and, while hot, stir in a teaspoon butter for each pie. Sea- 
son with nutmeg. When cool, fill your crust, and either 
cross-bar the top with strips of paste, or bake without 
cover. Eat cold, with powdered sugar strewed over it. 

LEMON PIE. 

The juice and rind of one lemon, two eggs, eight heap- 
ing tablespoonfuls of sugar, one small teacupful of milk, 
one teaspocnful of corn starch. Mix the corn starch with a 
little of the milk. Put the remainder on the fire, and when 
boiling, stir in the corn starch. Boil one minute. Let this 
cool, and add the yolks of the eggs, four heaping table- 
spoonfuls of the sugar, and the grated rind and juice of the 
lemon, all well beaten together. Have a deep pie-plate 
lined with paste, and fill with this mixture. Bake slowly 
half an hour. Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, 
and gradually beat into them the remainder of the sugar. 
Cover the pie with this, and brown slowly. 

CUSTARD PIE. 

Make a custard of the yolks of three eggs with milk, 
season to the taste; bake it in ordinary crust; put it in a 
quick oven, that the crust may not be heavy, and as soon as 
that is heated remove it to a place m the oven of a more 
moderate heat, that the custard may bake slowly and not 
curdle; when done, beat the whites to a froth; add sugar and 



176 THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK, 

spread over the top, and return to the oven to brown 
slightly; small pinch of salt added to a custard heightens 
the flavor; a little soda in the crust prevents it from being 
heavy. Very nice. 

COCOANUT PIE. 

One-half pound grated cocoanut, three-quarters pound 
of white sugar (powdered), six ounces of butter, five eggs, 
the whites only, one glass of white wine, two tablespoon- 
fuls rose-water, one tablespoonful of nutmeg. Cream the 
butter and sugar, and when well-mixed, beat very light, 
with the wine and rose-water. Add the cocoanut with as 
little and as light beating as possible; finally, whip in the 
stiffened whites of the eggs with a few skillful strokes, and 
bake at once in open shells. Eat cold, with powdered 
sugar sifted over them. 

LEMON TARTS. 

Mix well together the juice and grated rind of two lem- 
ons, two cups of sugar, two eggs, and the crumbs of sponge 
cake; beat it all together until smooth; put into twelve 
patty-pans lined with puff-paste, and bake until the crust 
is done. 

PASTRY SANDWICHES. 

Puff-paste, jam of any kind, the white of an egg y sifted 
sugar. 

Roll the paste out thin ; put half of it on a baking-sheet 
or tin, and spread equally over it apricot, greengage, or any 
preserve that may be preferred. Lay over this preserve 
another thin paste, press the edges together all round, and 
mark the paste in lines with a knife on the surface, to show 
where to cut it when baked. Bake from twenty minutes to 
half an hour; and, a short time before being done, take the 



THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 177 

pastry out of the oven, brush it over with the white of an 
egg, sift over pounded sugar, and put it back in the oven 
to color. When cold, cut it into strips; pile these on a dish 
pyramidically, and serve. These strips, cut about two 
inches long, piled in circular rows, and a plateful of flavored 
whipped cream poured in the middle, make a very pretty 
dish. 

CHERRY PIE. 

Line the dish with a good crust, and fill with ripe cher- 
ries, regulating the quantity of sugar you scatter over them 
by their sweetness. Cover and bake. 

Eat cold, with white sugar sifted over the top. 

SQUASH PIE. 

Two teacups of boiled squash, three-fourths teacup of 
brown sugar, three eggs, two tablespoons of molasses, one 
tablespoon of melted butter, one tablespoon of ginger, one 
teaspoon of cinnamon, two teacups of milk, a little salt. 
Make two plate pies. 

CREAM PIE. 

Pour a pint of cream upon a cup and a half powdered 
sugar; let stand until the whites of three eggs have been 
beaten to a stiff froth; add this to the cream, and beat up 
thoroughly; grate a little nutmeg over the mixture and 
bake in two pies without upper crusts. 

TARTLETS. 

Puff-paste, the white of an egg, pounded sugar. 

Mode: Roll some good puff-paste out thin, and cut it 
into two and a half inch squares; brush each square over 
with the white of an egg, then fold down the corners, so 
that they all meet in the middle of each piece of paste; 

13 



178 THE EVEEYDAY COOK-BOOK. 

slightly press the two pieces together, brush them over with 
the egg, sift over sugar, and bake in a nice quick oven for 
about a quarter of an hour. "When they are done, make a 
little hole in the middle of the paste, and fill it up with 
apricot jam, marmalade, or red-currant jelly. Pile then- 
high in the centre of a dish, on a napkin, and garnish with 
the same preserve the tartlets are filled with. 

PEACH PIE. 

Line a pie-tin with puff-paste, fill with pared peaches in 
halves or quarters, well covered with sugar; put on up- 
per crust and bake; or make as above without upper 
crust, bake until done, remove from the oven, and cover 
with a meringue made of the whites of two eggs, beaten to 
a stiff froth with two tablespoons powdered sugar; return 
to oven and brown slightly. Canned peaches may be used 
instead of fresh, in the same way. 

TART SHELLS. 

Roll out thin a nice puff-paste, cut out with a glass or 
biscuit cutter, with a wine-glass or smaller cup cut out the 
centre of two out of three of these, lay the rings thus 
made on the third, and bake immediately; or shells may be 
made by lining patty-pans with paste. If the paste is light, 
the shell will be fine, and may be used for tarts or oyster 
patties. Filled with jelly and covered with meringue (table- 
spoon sugar to white of one egg) and browned in oven, 
they are very nice to serve for tea. 

PUMPKIN PIE. 

One quart of stewed pumpkin, pressed through a sieve; 
nine eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately; two scant 
quarts of milk, one teaspoonful of mace, one teaspoonful 
of cinnamon, and the same of nutmeg; one and a half cupg 



THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 179 

of white sugar, or very light brown. Beat all well together, 
and bake in crust without cover. 

MINCE PIES. 

Three pounds of raisins, stone and chop them a little; 
three pounds of currants, three pounds of sugar, three 
pounds of suet chopped very fine, two ounces candied 
lemon-peel, two ounces of candied orange-peel, six large 
apples grated, one ounce of cinnamon, two nutmegs, the 
juice of three lemons and the rinds grated, and half a pint 
of brandy. Excellent 



ISO THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 



CAKES. 



WHITE LADY-CAKE. 

Beat the whites of eight eggs to a high froth, add gradu- 
ally a pound of white sugar finely ground, beat quarter of a 
pound of butter to a cream, add a teacup of sweet milk with 
a small teaspoonful of powdered volatile salts or saleratua 
dissolved in it; put the eggs to butter and milk, add as 
much sifted wheat flour as will make it as thick as pound 
cake mixture, and a teaspoon of orange-flower water or 
lemon extract, then add a quarter of a pound of shelled al- 
monds, blanched and beaten to a past© with a little white 
of egg; beat the whole together until light and white; line 
a square tin pan with buttered paper, put in the mixture 
an inch deep, and bake half an hour in a quick oven. When 
done take it from the pan; when cold take the paper off, 
turn it upside down on the bottom of the pan and ice the 
side which was down; when the icing is nearly hard mark 
it in slices the width of a finger, and two inches and a half 
long. 

MACAROONS. 

One-half pound of sweet almonds, one-half pound of sifted 
loaf sugar, the whites of three eggs, wafer-paper. Blanch, 
skin, and dry the almonds, and pound them well with a little 
orange-flower water or plain water; then add to them the 
sifted sugar and the whites of the eggs, which should be 
beaten to a stiff froth, and mix all the ingredients well to- 



THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 181 

gether. WTien the paste look.-? soft, drop it at equal dis- 
tances from a biscuit-syringe on to sheets of wafer-paper; 
put a strirrof almond on the top of each; strew some sugar 
over, and bake the macaroons in rather a slow oven, a£ a 
light brown color. When hard and set, they are done, and 
must not be allowed to get very brown, as that would spoil 
their appearance. If the cakes, when baked, appear heavy, 
add a little more white of egg, but let this always be weil- 
whisked before it is added to the other ingredients. We 
have given a recipe for making these cakes, but we think it 
almost or quite as economical to purchase such articles as 
these at a good confectioner's, 

ALMOND ICING. 

Whites of four eggs; one pound sweet almonds; one 
pound powdered sugar; a little rose-water. Blanch the 
almonds by pouring boiling water over them and stripping 
off the skins. When dry, pound them to a paste, a few at a 
time, in a Wedgewood mortar, moistening it with rose- 
water as you go on. When beaten fine and smooth, beat 
gradually into icing. Put on very thick, and, when nearly 
dry, cover with plain icing. 

TO MAKE ICING FOR CAKES. 

Beat the whites of two small eggs to a high froth; then 
add to them quarter of a pound of white sugar, ground 
fine, like flour; flavor with lemon extract, or vanilla; beat 
it until it is light and very white, but not quite so stiff as 
kiss mixture; the longer it is beaten the more firm it will 
become. No more sugar must be added to make it so. 
Beat the frosting until it may be spread smoothly on the 
cake. This quantity will ice quite a large cake over the 
top and sides. 



182 THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 



LOAF CAKE. 

One pound of butter beaten to a cream, two pounds of 
sugar rolled fine, three pounds of sifted flour, six well- 
beaten eggs, three teaspoonfuls of powdered saleratus, dis- 
solved in a little hot water, one tablespoonful of ground 
cinnamon, and half a nutmeg grated; add one pound of 
currants, well washed and dried, one pound of raisins 
stoned and cut in two; work the whole well together, di- 
vide it in three loaves, put them in buttered basins, and 
bake one hour in a moderate oven. 

RICH BRIDE-CAKE. 

Take four pounds of sifted flour, four pounds of sweet, 
fresh butter, beaten to a cream, and two pounds of white 
powdered sugar; take six eggs for each pound of flour, an 
ounce of ground mace or nutmegs, and a tablespoonful of 
lemon extract or orange-flower water. 

LADY FINGERS. 

Take eight eggs; whip the whites to a firm snow. In tha 
meantime, have the yolks beaten up with six ounces of 
powdered sugar. Each of these operations should be per- 
formed at least one hour. Then mix all together with six 
ounces of sifted flour; and when well incorporated, stir in 
half a pint of rose or orange-flower water; stir them to- 
gether for some time. 

Have ready some tin plates, rubbed with white wax; take 
a funnel with three or four tubes; fill it with the paste, and 
press out the cakes upon the plates, to the size and length 
of a finger; grate white sugar over each; let them lay until 
the sugar melts, and they shine; then put them in a moder- 
ate oven, until they have a fine color; when cool, take them 
from the tins, and lay them together in couples, by the 



THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 183 

backs. These cakes may be formed with a spoon, on sheets 
of writing paper. Half this quantity will be trouble enough 
at one time. 

QUEEN CAKE. 

Beat one pound of butter to a cream, with a tablespoon- 
ful of rose-water; then add one pound of fine white sugar, 
ten eggs, beaten very light, and a pound and a quarter of 
sifted flour; beat the cake well together; then add half a 
pound of shelled almonds, blanched, and beaten to a paste ; 
butter tin round basins, line them with white paper; put in 
the mixture an inch and a half deep; bake one hour in a 
quick oven. 

CHOCOLATE MACAROONS. 

Put three ounces of plain chocolate in a pan ana melt on 
a slow fire; then work it to a thick pa-rte with one pound 
of powdered sugar and the whites oi three eggs; roll the 
mixture down to the thickness of about one-quarter of an 
inch; cut it in small, round pieces with a paste-cutter, 
either plain or scalloped; butter a pan slightly, and dust it 
with flour and sugar in equal quantities; place in it the 
pieces of paste or mixture, and bake in a hot but not quick 
oven. 

CARAMEL CAKE. 

One cup of butter, two of sugar, a scant cup milk, one 
and a half cups flour, cup corn starch, whites of seven 
eggs, three teaspoons baking powder m the flour; bake in 
a long pan. Take half pound brown sugar, scant quarter 
pound chocolate, half cup milk, butter size of an egg, two 
teaspoons vanilla; mix thoroughly and cook as syrup until 
stiff enough to spread; spread on cake and set in the oven 
to dry. 



184 THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK, 



POUND CAKE. 

Ons pound of butter, one and one-quarter £ounds of flour, 
one pound of pounded loaf sugar, one pound of currants, 
nine eggs, two ounces of candied peel, one-half ounce of 
citron, one-half ounce of sweet almonds; when liked, a lit- 
tle pounded mace. Work the butter to a cream; dredge in 
the flour; add the sugar, currants, candied peel, which 
should be cut into neat slices, and the almonds, which 
should be blanched and chopped, and mix all these well to- 
gether; whisk the eggs, and let them be thoroughly blended 
with the dry ingredients. Beat the cake well for twenty 
minutes, and put it into a round tin, lined at the bottom 
and sides with a strip of white buttered paper. Bake it 
from one and one-half to two hours, and let the oven be 
well heated when the cake is first put in, as, if this is not 
the case, the currants will all sink to the bottom of it. To 
make this preparation light, the yolks and whites of the 
eggs should be beaten separately and added separately to 
the other ingredients. A glass of wine is added to the 
mixture; but this is scarcely necessary, as the cake will be 
found quite rich enough without it. 

COCOANUT SPONGE CAKE. 

Beat the yolks of six eggs with half a pound of sugar 
and a quarter of a pound of flour, add a teaspoonful of 
salt, a teaspoonful of lemon essence, and half a nutmeg, 
grated; beat the whites of the eggs to a froth, and stir them 
to the yolks, etc., and the white meat of a cocoanut, grated; 
line square tin pans with buttered paper, and having stirred 
the ingredients well together, put the mixture in an inch 
dzep in the pans; bake in a quick oven half an hour; cut it 
in squares, to serve with or without icing. 



THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK 185 



COCOANUT POUND CAKE. 

Beat half a pound of butter to a cream; add gradually 
a pound of sifted flour, one pound of powdered sugar, two 
teaspoonfuls baking powder, a pinch of salt, a teaspoonful 
of grated lemon-peel, quarter of a pound of prepared cocoa- 
nut, four well-beaten eggs, and a cupful of milk; mix thor- 
oughly; butter the tins, and line them with buttered paper; 
pour the mixture in to the depth of an inch and a half, and 
bake in a good oven. When baked take out, spread icing 
over them, and return the cake to the oven a moment to 
dry the icing. 

COCOANUT CUP CAKE. 

Two cups of sugar, two cups of butter, one cup of milk, 
one teaspoonful of essence of lemon, half a nutmeg grated, 
four well-beaten eggs and the white meat of a cocoanut 
grated; use as much sifted wheat flour as will make a rather 
stiff batter; beat it well, butter square tin pans, line them 
with white paper, and put in the mixture an inch deep; 
bake in a moderate oven half an hour, or it may require ten 
minutes longer. "When cold, cut in small squares or dia- 
monds; this is a rich cake and is much improved by a thin 
icing. This cake should be made with fine white sugar. 

COCOANUT DROPS. 

Break a cocoanut in pieces, and lay it in cold water, then 
cut off the dark rind, and grate the white meat on a coarse 
grater; put the whites of four eggs with half a pound of 
powdered white sugar; beat it until it is light and white, 
then add to it a teaspoonful of lemon extract, and gradually 
as much grated cocoanut as will make it as thick as can be 
stirred easily with a spoon; lay it in heaps the size of a 



186 THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK, 

large nutmeg on sheets of white paper, place them the dis- 
tance of half an inch apart; when the paper is full, lay it on 
a baking-tin, set them in a quick oven; when they begin to 
look yellowish, they are done; let them remain on the paper 
until nearly cold, then take them off with a thin-bladed 
knife. 

CITRON HEART CAKES. 

Beat half a pound of butter to a cream, take six eggs, 
beat the whites to a froth, and the yolks with half a pound 
of sugar, and rather more than half a pound of sifted flour, 
beat these well together, add a wineglass of brandy, and 
quarter of a pound of citron cut in thin slips, bake it in 
small heart-shaped tins, or a square tin pan, rubbed over with 
a bit of sponge dipped in melted butter; put the mixture in 
half an inch deep, bake fifteen or twenty minutes in a quick 
oven. These are very fine cakes. Shred almonds may be 
used instead of citron. 

IMPERIAL CAKE. 

One pound of flour, half a pound of butter, three-quar- 
ters of a pound of sugar, four eggs, half a pound of cur- 
rants, well-washed and dredged, half a teaspoonful of soda 
dissolved in hot water, half a lemon, grated rind and juice, 
one teaspoonful of cinnamon. Drop from a spoon upon 
well-buttered paper, lining a baking-pan. Bake quickly 



PLUM CAKE. 

Make a cake of two cups of butter, two cups of molasses, 
one cup of sweet milk, two eggs, well-beaten, one teaspoon- 
ful of powdered saleratus, dissolved with a little hot water, 
one teaspoonful of ground mace or nutmeg, one teaspoonful 
of ground allspice, a tablespoonful of cinnamon, and a gill 



THE EVEH YDA Y COOK-BOOR. 18? 

of brandy; stir in flour to make a batter as stiff as may be 
stirred easily with a spoon; beat it well until it is light, 
then add two pounds of raisins, stoned, and cut in two, two 
pounds of currants, picked, washed, and dried, and half a 
pound of citron, cut in slips. Bake in a quick oven. This 
is a fine, rich cake, easily made, and not expensive. 



GOLD AND SILVER CAKE. 

Gold Part. — Yolks of eight eggs, scant cup butter, two of 
sugar, four of flour, one of sour milk, teaspoon soda, table- 
spoon corn starch; flavor with lemon and vanilla. 

Silver Part. — Two cups sugar, one of butter, four (scant) 
of flour, one of sour milk, teaspoon soda, tablespoon corn 
starch, whites of eight eggs; flavor with almond or peach. 
Put in pan, alternately, one spoonful of gold and one of 
silver. 

TO MAKE SMALL SPONGE CAKES. 

The weight of five eggs in flour, the weight of eight in 
pounded loaf sugar; flavor to taste. Let the flour be per- 
fectly dry, and the sugar well pounded and sifted. Separate 
the whites from the yolks of the eggs, and beat the latter 
up with the sugar; then whisk the whites until they become 
rather stiff, and mix them with the yolks, but do not stir 
them more than is just necessary to mingle the ingredients 
well together. Dredge in the flour by degrees, add the 
flavoring; butter the tins well, pour in the batter, sift a 
little sugar over the cakes, and bake them in rather a quick 
oven, but do not allow them to take too much color, as they 
should be rather pale. Remove them from the tins before 
they get cold, and turn them on their faces, where let them 
remain until quite cold, when store them away in a closed 
tin canister or wide-mouthed glass bottle. 



188 THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 



LEMON CHEESE CAKE. 

Two cups sugar, half cup butter, three-quarters cup 
sweet milk, whites of six eggs, three cups flour, three tea- 
spoons baking powder. 

Sauce fob Lemon Cheese Cake. — Grated rind and juice 
of two lemons, yolks of three eggs, half cup butter, one cup 
sugar; mix all together, and set on stove, and cook till 
thick as sponge, stirring all the time; then use like jelly 
between the cakes. 

SNOW CAKE. 

One pound of arrowroot, half pound pounded white 
sugar, half pound butter, the whites of six eggs; flavoring 
to taste, of essence of almonds, or vanilla, or lemon. 

Mode: Beat the butter to a cream; stir in the sugar and 
arrowroot gradually at the same time beating the mixture. 
Whisk the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, add them to 
the other ingredients, and beat well for twenty minutes. 
Put in whichever of the above flavoring may be preferred; 
pour the cake into a buttered mold or tin and bake it in a 
moderate oven from one to one and a half hours. 

TILDEN CAKE. 

One cup butter, two of pulverized sugar, one of sweet 
milk, three of flour, half cup corn starch, four eggs, two 
teaspoons baking powder, two of lemon extract. This is 
excellent 

CORN STARCH CAKE. 

Whites of six eggs, one cup of butter, two cups of flour, 
one cup of corn starch, two cups of sugar, one cup of sweet 
milk, one-half teaspoonful of soda, one of cream of tartar. 



THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 189 



BIRTHDAY CAKE. 

One pound and a half of fine sugar, one pound and a 
half of butter, three pounds and a half of currants, two 
pounds of flour, one-half pound candied peel, one-half 
pound almonds, two ounces spices, the grated rind of three 
lemons, eighteen eggs, one gill of brandy. Paper the hoops, 
and bake three hours. Ice when cold. 

NAPLES BISCUIT. 

Beat eight eggs light; add to them one pound of fine 
white sugar, and one pound of sifted wheat flour; flavor 
with a teaspoonful of salt, and essence of lemon or orange- 
flower water; beat it until it rises in bubbles; bake in a 
quick oven. 

CAKE TRIFLE. 

< 

Bake a Naples biscuit; cut out the inside about one inch 
from the edge and bottom, leaving the shell. In place of 
the inside, put a custard made of the yolks of four eggs, 
beaten with a pint of boiling milk, sweetened, and flavored 
with half a teaspoonful of peach-water; lay on it some 
jelly, or jam; beat the whites of two eggs, with white 
ground sugar, until it will stand in a heap; put it on the 
jelly, and serve. 

SAVOY CAKE. 

The weight of four eggs in pounded loaf-sugar, the 
weight of seven in flour, a little grated lemon-rind, or es- 
sence of almonds, or orange-flower water. Break the seven 
eggs, putting the yolks into one basin and the whites into 
another. Whisk the former, and mix with them the sugar, 
the grated lemon-rind, or any other flpvoring to taste; beat 
them well together, and add the whites of the eggs, whisked 



190 THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 

to a froth. Put in the flour by degrees, continuing to beat 
the mixture for one-quarter of an hour, butter a mold, pour 
in the cake, and bake it from one and a quarter to one and 
a half hours. This is a very nice cake for dessert, and may 
be iced for a supper table, or cut into slices and spread with 
jam, which converts it into sandwiches, 

COMPOSITION CAKE. 

Five cups of flour, two cups of butter, three of sugar, 
one of milk, five eggs, one teaspoon of soda; two of cream 
of tartar, fruit as you please, cinnamon, nutmeg and clove 
to taste. 

ALMOND CREAM CAKE. 

On beatea whites of ten eggs sift one and a half goblets 
pulverized sugar, and a goblet of flour, through which has 
been stirred a heaping teaspoon cream tartar; stir very 
gently and do not heat it; bake in jelly-pans. For cream, 
take a half pint of sweet cream, yolks of three eggs, table- 
spoon pulverized sugar, teaspoon corn starch; dissolve 
starch smoothly with a little milk, beat yolks and sugar to- 
gether with this, boil the cream, and stir these ingredients 
in as for any cream cake filling, only make a little thicker; 
blanch and chop fine a half pound almonds and stir into 
the cream. Put together like jelly cake while icing is soft, 
and stick in a half pound of almonds, split in two. 

ICE-CREAM CAKE. 

Make good sponge cake, bake half an inch thick in jelly- 
pans, and let them get perfectly cold; take a pint thickest 
sweet cream, beat until it looks like ice-cream, make very 
iweet, and flavor with vanilla; blanch and chop a pound 



THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 191 

almonds., stir into cream, and put very thick between eacn 
layer. This is the queen of all cakes. 



ECONOMICAL CAKE. 

One pound of flour, one-quarter pound of sugar, one- 
quarter pound of butter or lard, one-half pound of cur- 
rants, one teaspoonful of carbonate of soda, the whites of 
four eggs, one-half pint of milk. In making many sweet 
dishes, the whites of eggs are not required, and if well 
beaten and added to the above ingredients, make an ex- 
cellent cake, with or without currants. Beat the butter to 
a cream, well whisk the whites of the eggs, and stir all the 
ingredients together bat the soda, which must not be added 
until all is well mixed, and the cake is ready to be put into 
the oven. When the mixture has been well beaten, stir in 
the soda, put the cake into a buttered mold, and bake it in 
a moderate oven for one and a half hours. 



DELICATE CAKE. 

Three cups of flour, two of sugar, three-fourths cup of 
sweet milk, whites of six eggs, half cup butter, teaspoon 
cream tartar, half teaspoon of soda. Flavor with lemon. 



ORANGE CAKE. 

One cup of sugar, half a cup of butter, half a cup of 
sweet milk, two cups of flour, three eggs, one and a half 
teaspoonfuls of baking powder; bake in jelly-tins. 

Orange Frosting for Same. — One orange, grate off the 
outside, and mix with juice, and add sugar until quite stiff, 
and make like jelly cake; make four layers of the cake. . 



192 THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 



FRIED CAKES. 

One cup of sugar, two eggs, half a cup of shortening, one 
teaspoon of soda, one cup of sour milk, cut in rings; have 
your lard very hot, in which place a peeled potato to keep 
lard from burning, and drop in your cakes; they will come 
to the top of lard when light; fry a dark brown; when 
taken out sprinkle sugar over them. 

JELLY KISSES. 

Kisses to be served for dessert at a large dinner, with 
other suitable confectionery, may be varied in this way: 
Having made the kisses, put them in a moderate oven, un- 
til the outside is a little hardened; then take one off care- 
fully, as before directed; take out the soft inside with the 
handle of a spoon, and put it back with the mixture, to 
make more; then lay the shell down. Take another, and 
prepare it likewise; fill the shells with currant jelly, or jam; 
join two together, cementing them with some of the mix- 
ture; so continue until you have enough. Make kisses, 
cocoanut drops, and such like, the day before they are 
wanted. 

COCOANUT KISSES. 

Make a kiss mixture; add to it half of a cocoanut, grated 
(the white meat only) ; finish as directed for kisses. 

FIG CAKE. 

Silver Part. — Two cups sugar, two- thirds cup butter, not 
quite two-thirds cup sweet milk, whites of eight eggs, three 
heaping teaspoons baking powder, thoroughly sifted, with 
three cups flour; stir sugar and butter to a cream, add milk 
and flour, and last whites of eggs. 

Gold Part.— One cup sugar, three-fourth3 cup butter, hall 



THE EVER YDA Y COOK-BOOK. 195 

cup sweet milk, one and a half teaspoons baking powder 
sifted in a little more than one and a half cups flour, yolks 
of seven eggs thoroughly beaten, and one whole egg y one 
teaspoon allspice, and cinDamon until you can taste it; bake 
the white in two long pie-tins. Put half the gold in a pie- 
tin, and lay on one pound halved figs (previously sifted 
over with flour), so that they will just touch each other; 
put on the rest of the gold, and bake. Put the cakes to- 
gether with frosting while warm, the gold between the white 
ones, and cover with frosting. 

CALIFORNIA CAKE. 

Two cups of sugar, one cup butter, one cup milk, two 
eggs, three teaspoons baking powder, put in three cups 
sifted flour, flavor and add fruit. This recipe makes two 
cakes. 

WHITE MOUNTAIN CAKE. 

One cup sugar, one-half cup of butter, one-half cup 
sweet milk, one-half cup corn starch, one cup flour, whites 
of six eggs, a little vanilla, two teaspoonfuls baking pow- 
der. Bake in layers. 

Frosting for Above.— Whites of five eggs, twenty table- 
spoonfab sifted sugar, beaten very light; a little vanilla- 
Spread between layers and outside of cake. 

LEMON CAKE. 
One-half cup of sugar, one teaspoon butter, one table- 
spoonful of milk, three eggs, one cup flour, one teaspoon 
baking powder; bake in jelly-tins, put between two apple 
and one lemon, grated together with a little &gar. 

STRAWBERRY SHORTCAKE. 
Make good biscuit crust; bake in two tins of same shape 
and size; mix berries with plenty of sugar; open the short- 



194 THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 

cake, butter well and place berries in layers, alternated with 
the crust; have the top layer of berries and over all put 
charlotte russe or whipped cream. 

MARBLE CAKE. 

White Part. — Whites of seven eggs, three cups white 
Sugar, one of butter, one of sour milk, four of flour, sifted 
and heaping, one teaspoon soda; flavor to taste. 

Dark Part. — Yolks of seven eggs, three cups brown sugar, 
one of butter, one of sour milk, four of flour, sifted and 
heaping, one tablespoon each of cinnamon, allspice and 
cloves, one teaspoon soda; put in pans a spoonful of white 
part and then a spoonful of dark, and so on. Bake an hour 
and a quarter. Use coffee cups to measure. This will make 
one large and one medium cake. The white and dark parts 
are alternated, either putting in a spoonful of white, then 
of dark, or a layer of white and then of dark part, being 
careful that the cake may be nicely " marbleizecL** 

WHITE POUND CAKE. 

One pound sugar, one of flour, half pound butter, whites 
of sixteen eggs, teaspoon baking powder sifted thoroughly 
with the flour; put in cool oven with gradual increase of 
heat. For boiled icing for the cake, take three cups sugar 
boiled in one of water until clear; beat whites of three eggs 
to very stiff froth, and pour over them the boiling liquid, 
beating all the time for ten minutes; froth while both cake 
and icing are warm. 

NELLY'S CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

One cup of butter, two of sugar, five eggs, leaving out 
two of the whites, one scant cup of milk, two full teaspoons 
of baking powder; mix well in three cups flour; bake in 



THE EVERYDAY VOOK-BOOK. 195 

two long shallow tins. Dressing: Beat the whites of two 
eggs to a stiff froth, add a scant cup and a half of sugar; 
flavor with vanilla, add six tablespoons of grated chocolate; 
add the dressing when the cake is cold, and cut in diamond 
slices. 

RICE CAKE. 

One cupful of butter, two of sugar, two and one-fourth 
of rice flour, six eggs, the juice and rind of a lemon. Beat 
the butter to a cream; then gradually beat in the sugar, 
and add the lemon. Beat the yolks and whites separately, 
and add them to the beaten sugar and butter. Add also 
the rice flour. Pour into a shallow pan, to the depth of 
about two inches. Bake from thirty-five to forty-five min- 
utes in a moderate oven. 

CREAM CAKE. 

Two eggs, one cup of sugar, one cup of cream, two cups 
of flour, one teaspoonful of cream of tartar, and one tea- 
spoonful of soda. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

One cup of sugar, two eggs, two tablespoons of melted 
butter, two-thirds cup of milk, two even teaspoons of cream 
tartar, one even teaspoon of soda, flour enough to roll, salt 
and nutmeg. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

One pound sugar, one of flour, ten eggs. Stir yolks of 
eggs and sugar till perfectly light; beat whites of eggs and 
add them with the flour after beating together lightly; flavor 
with lemon. Three teaspoons baking powder in the flour 
will add to its lightness, but it never fails without. Bake in 
a, moderate oven. 



196 THE EVER YD A Y COOK-BOOK. 



COFFEE CAKE. 

Two cups brown sugar, one of butter, one of molasses, 
one of strong coffee as prepared for the table, four eggs, 
one teaspoon saleratus, two of cinnamon, two of cloves, one 
of grated nutmeg, pound raisins, one of currants, four cups 
flour. 

SOFT GINGERBREAD. 

Six cupfuls of flour, three of molasses, one of cream, one 
of lard or butter, two eggs, one teaspoonful of saleratus, 
and two of ginger. This is excellent. 

SPICE CAKE. 

One and one-half cups of sugar, half cup butter, half of 
sour milk, two cups of raisins chopped, three eggs, half a 
nutmeg, one teaspoon cinnamon, one of cloves, one saler- 
atus; mix rather stiff; bake in loaf tins in moderate oven. 

SWEET STRAWBERRY SHORTCAKE. 

Three eggs, one cupful sugar, two of flour, one tablespoon- 
ful of butter, a teaspoonful, heaped, of baking powder. 
Beat the butter and sugar together, and add the eggs well- 
beaten. Stir in the flour and baking powder well sifted to- 
gether. Bake in deep tin plates. This quantity will fill 
four plates. With three pints of strawberries mix a cupful 
of sugar. Spread the fruit between the layers of cake. 
The top layer of strawberries may be covered with a 
meringue made with the white of an egg and a tablespoon- 
ful of powdered sugar. 

GINGER NUTS. 

One and three-quarter pounds of syrup, one pound of 
moist sugar, one pound of butter, two and three-quarter 



THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 187 

pounds of flour, one and a half ounces of ground ginger, 
one and a half ounces of allspice, one and a half ounces of 
coriander seed, sal volatile size of a bean, a little Cayenne, 
flour enough to roll out, but not thin, cut with a wineglass 
or roll between your hands into small balls, and pinch* 

RIBBON CAKE. 

Two cupfuls of sugar, one of butter, one of milk, four of 
flour (rather scant), four eggs, half a teaspoonful of soda, 
one of cream of tarfcar. Beat the butter to a cream. Add 
the sugar gradually, beating all the while; then the flavoring 
(lemon or nutmeg). Beat the eggs very light. Add them 
and the milk. Measure the flour after it has been sifted. 
Return it to the sieve, and mix the soda and cream of tartar 
with it. Sift this into the bowl of beaten ingredients. Beat 
quickly and vigorously, to thoroughly mix, and then stop. 
Take three sheet pans of the same size, and in each of two put 
one-third of the mixture, and bake. To the other third 
add four teaspoonfuls of cinnamon, a cupful of currants and 
about an eighth of a pound of citron, cut fine. Bake this 
in the remaining pan. When done, take out of the pans. 
Spread the light cake with a thin layer of jelly, while warm. 
Place on this the dark cake, and spread with jelly. Place 
the other sheet of light cake on this. Lay a paper over 
all, and then a thin sheet, on which put two irons. The 
cake will press in about two hours. 

JELLY ROLL. 

Make the sponge cake mixture as for lady-fingers, and 
bake in one shallow pan twenty minutes. While it is yet 
warm cut off the edges, and spread the cake with any kind 
of jelly. Roll up, and pin a towel around it. Put in a cool 
place until serving time. Cut in slices with a sharp knife. 



198 THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 

DELICATE CRULLERS. 

Take four eggs, four tablespoonfuls of lard, four table- 
Bpoonfuls of sugar, a teaspoonful of salt, and half a nutmeg 
grated, a teaspoonful of lemon extract may be added; work 
into these as much sifted flour as will make a nice dough, 
roll it to about an eighth of an inch thickness, and fry 
as directed for doughnuts and crullers. 

To make little baskets, cut the paste in strips an inch and 
a half wide, and three inches long, and with a giggling iron 
cut slices across it from one side to the other, within a quarter 
of an inch of either edge, and quarter of an inch apart; 
then join the two ends together in a circle, forming the 
basket; press it down slightly, that the strips may bulge, 
and so form the basket, like those made for fly-traps of 
paper; so soon as they are taken from the fat (fiye minutes 
will do them), grate white sugar oyer. 



THE EVERYDAY COOK- BOOK. 139 



DESSERT AND TEA DISHES. 



BOILED CUSTARD. 

One quart milk, eight eggs, one-half pound of sugar; beat 
to a good froth the eggs and sugar. Put the milk in a tin 
pail and set it in boiling water; pour in the eggs and sugar 
and stir it until it thickens. 

LEMON CUSTARD. 

Beat the yolks of eight eggs till they are white, add pint 
boiling water, the rinds of two lemons grated, and the juice 
sweetened to taste; stir this on the fire till it thickens, then 
add a large glass of rich wine, and one-half glass brandy; 
give the whole a good boil, and put in glasses. To be 
eaten cold. Or, put the thin yellow rind of two lemons, 
with the juico of three, and sugar to taste, into one pint of 
warm water. As lemons vary in size and juiciness, the ex- 
act quantity of sugar cannot be given. Ordinary lemons 
require threo gills. It will be safe to begin with that 
quantity, more may be added if required. Beat the whites 
to a stiff froth, then the yolks; then beat both together, 
pour in gradually while beating the other ingredients; put 
all in a pail, set in a pot of boiling water, and stir until 
thick as boiled custard; strain it in a deep dish; when cool 
place on ice. Serve in glasses. 

SNOW CUSTARD. 

Half a package of Cox's gelatine, three eggs, two 
cups of sugar, juice of one lemon; soak the gelatine one 



200 THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 

hour in a teacup of cold water, add one pint boiling water, 
stir until thoroughly dissolved, add two-thirds of the sugar 
and the lemon-juice; beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff 
froth, and when the gelatine is quite cold whip it into the 
whites, a spoonful at a time from half an hour to an hour. 
Whip steadily and evenly, and when all is stiff pour in a 
mold, or in a dozen egg-glasses previously wet with cold 
water, and set in a cold place. In four or five hours turn 
into a glass dish. Make a custard of one and a half pints 
milk, yolks of eggs, and remainder of the sugar, flavor with 
vanilla, and when the meringue or snowballs are turned out 
of the mold, pour this around the base. 

TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

Three ounces of tapioca, one quart of milk, two ounces of 
butter, quarter of a pound of sugar, four eggs, flavoring of 
vanilla or bitter almonds. Wash the tapioca, and let it stew 
gently in the milk by the side of the stove for quarter of 
an hour, occasionally stirriug it; then let it cool; mix with 
it the butter, sugar, and eggs, which should be well beaten, 
and flavor with either of the above ingredients. Butter 
a pie-dish, and line the edges with puff-paste; put in the 
pudding, and bake in a moderate oven for an hour. If the 
pudding is boiled, add a little more tapioca, and boil it in a 
buttered basin one and a half hours. 



BLANC-MANGE. 

One quarter pound of sugar, one quart of milk, one and 
a half ounces of isinglass, the rind of half a lemon, four 
laurel leaves. Put all the ingredients into a lined saucepan, 
and boil gently until the isinglass is dissolved; taste it oc- 
casionally to ascertain when it is sufficiently flavored with 
the laurel leaves; then take them out, and keep stirring the 



THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 20i 

mixture over the fire for about ten minutes. Strain it 
through a fine sieve into a jug, and, when nearly cold, pour 
it into a well-oiled mold, omitting the sediment at the 
bottom. Turn it out carefully on a dish, and garnish with 
preserves, bright jelly, or a compote of fruit. 



IVORY BLANC-MANGE. 

Soak one ounce of gelatine for ten minutes in a little cold 
milk and pour over the gelatine, and stir it constantly until 
it is all dissolved; it may be placed in the dish and set on top 
of a boiling teakettle for a few minutes; remove it and add 
a small cupful of sugar and two tablespoonfuls of sherry 
wine. Strain into molds. 



RICE BLANC-MANGE. 

One-quarter pound of ground rice, three ounces of loaf 
sugar, one ounce of fresh butter, one quart of milk, flavor- 
ing of lemon-peel, essence of almonds or vanilla, or laurel 
leaves. Mix the rice to a smooth batter with about one- 
half pint of milk, and the remainder put into a saucepan, 
with the sugar, butter, and whichever of the above flavor- 
ings may be preferred; bring the milk to the boiling point, 
quickly stir in the rice, and let it boil for about ten min- 
utes, or until it comes easily away from the saucepan, keep- 
ing it well stirred the whole time. Grease a mold with pure 
salad oil; pour in the rice, and let it get perfectly set, when 
it should turn out quite easily; garnish it with jam, or pour 
round a compote of any kind of fruit, just before it is sent 
to table. This blanc-mange is better for beirg made the 
day before it is wanted, as it then has time to become firm. 
If laurel leaves are used for flavoring, steep three of them 
in the milk, and take them out before the rice is added; 



202 THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 

about eight drops of essence of almonds, or from twelve to 
sixteen drops of essence of vanilla, would be required to 
flavor the above proportion of milk. 



APPLE TRIFLE. 

Ten good- sized apples, the rind of one-half lemon, six 
ounces of pounded sugar, one-half pint of milk, one-half 
pint of cream, two eggs, whipped cream. Peel, core, and 
cut the apples into thin slices; and put them into a saucepan, 
with two tablespoonfuls of water, the sugar, and minced 
lemon-rind. Boil ail together until quite tender, and pulp 
the apples through a sieve; if they should not be quite 
sweet enough, add a little more sugar, and put them at the 
bottom of the dish to form a thick layer. Stir together the 
milk, cream and eggs, with a little sugar, over the fire; and 
let the mixture thicken, but do not allow it to reach 
the boiling point. When thick, take it off the fire; let 
it cool a little, then pour it over the apples. Whip some 
cream with sugar, lemon-peel, etc., the same as for other 
trifles; heap it high over the custard, and the dish is ready 
for table. It may be garnished, as fancy dictates, with 
strips of bright apple jelly, slices of citron, etc 



LEMON TRIFLE. 

Juice of two lemons and grated peel of one, one pint 
cream, well sweetened and whipped stiff, one cup of sherry, 
a little nutmeg. Let sugar, lemon-juice and peel lie to- 
gether two hours before you add wine and nutmeg. Strain 
through double tarlatan, and whip gradually into the frothed 
cream. Serve very soon, heaped in small glasses. Pass 
cake with this, as well as with the tea. 



THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 



FLOATING ISLAND. 

Take a quart of rich cream, and divide it in half. Sweeten 
one pint of it with loaf sugar, and stir it into sufficient cur- 
rant jelly, to color it of a fine pink. Put it into a glass 
bowl, and place in the centre a pile of sliced almond sponge 
cake, or lady cake; every slice spread thickly with raspberry 
jam or marmalade, and laid evenly one on another. Have 
ready the other pint of cream, flavored with the juice of 
two lemons, and beaten to a stiff froth. Heap it all over 
the pile ot cake so as entirely to cover it Both creams 
must be made very sweet 

APPLE SNOW 

Forms a showy, sweet dish, and may be made as follows: 
Ten or a dozen apples prepared as before, flavoring with a 
little lemon-juice; when reduced to a pulp let them stand to 
cool for a little time, meanwhile beat up the whites of ten 
or a dozen eggs to a froth, and stir into the apples, as also 
some sifted sugar, say ateacupful; stir till the mixture be- 
gins to stiffen, and then heap it up in a glass dLh or serve 
in custard cups, ornamented with spots of red currant jelly. 
Thick cream should at table be ladled out to the snow. 

TROPICAL SNOW. 

Ten sweet oranges, one cocoanut, pared and grated, two 
glasses sherry, one cup powdered sugar, six bananas. Peel 
and cut the oranges small, taking out the seeds. Put a 
layer in a glass bowl and wet with wine, then strew with 
sugar. Next, put a layer of grated cocoanut, slice the 
bananas thin, and cover the cocoanut with them. "When 
the dish has been filled in this order, heap with cocoanut 
Eat soon or the oranges will toughen. 



204 THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 



SWISS CREAM. 

One-quarter pound of macaroons or six small spong- 
cakes, one pint of cream, five ounces of lump sugar, 
two tablespoonfuls of arrowroot, the rind of one lemon, 
the juice of half lemon, three tablespoonfuls of milk. Lay 
the macaroons or sponge-cakes in a glass dish, and pour 
over them as much sherry as will cover them, or sufficient 
to cover them well. Put the cream into a lined saucepan, 
with the sugar and lemon-rind, and let it remain by the side 
of the fire until the cream is well-flavored, when take out 
the lemon-rind. Mix the arrowroot smoothly with the cold 
milk; add this to the cream, and let it boil gently for about 
three minutes, keeping it well stirred. Take it off the fire, 
stir till nearly cold, when add the lemon-juice, and pour the 
whole over the cakes. Garnish the cream with strips of 
angelica, or candied citron cut thin, or bright-colored jelly 
or preserve. This cream is exceedingly delicious, flavored 
with vanilla instead of lemon; when this flavoring is used, 
the sherry may be omitted, and the mixture poured over the 
dry cakes. 

ITALIAN CREAM. 

Take one quart of cream, one pint of milk sweetened very 
sweet, and highly seasoned with sherry wine and vanilla; 
beat it with a whip dasher, and remove the froth as it rises, 
until it is all converted into froth. Have ready one box of 
Cox's sparkling gelatine dissolved in a little warm water; 
set the frothed cream into a tub of ice ; pour the gelatine 
into it, and stir constantly until it thickens, then pour into 
molds, and set in a cool place. 

WHIPPED CREAM. 

Mix one pint of cream with nine tablespoons of fine 
sugar and one gill of wine in a large bowl; whip these with 



THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK, 205 

the croam dasher, and as the froth rises, skim into the dish 
in which it is to be served. Fill the dish full to the top, and 
ornament with kisses or macaroons* 



TIPSY CAKE. 

One molded sponge or Savoy cake, sufficient sweet wine 
or sherry to soak it, six tablespoonf als of brandy, two ounces 
of sweet almonds, one pint of rich custard. Procure a 
cake that is three or four days old — either sponge, Savoy, 
or rice answering for the purpose of a tipsy cake. Cut the 
bottom of the cake level, to make it stand firm in the dish; 
make a small hole in the centre, and pour in and over the 
cake sufficient sweet wine or sherry, mixed with the above 
proportion of brandy, to soak it nicely. When the cake is 
well soaked, blanch and cut the almonds into strips, stick 
them all over the cake, and pour round it a good custard, 
allowing eight eggs instead of five to the pint of milk. 
The cakes are sometimes crumbled and soaked, and a 
whipped cream heaped over them, the same as for trifles. 

SNOW PYRAMIDS. 

Beat to a stiff foam the whites of half a dozen eggs, add 
a small teacupful of currant jelly, and whip all together 
again. Fill as many saucers as you have guests half full of 
cream, dropping in the centre of each saucer a tablespoon- 
ful of the beaten eggs and jelly in the shape of a pyramid. 

AN EXCELLENT DESSERT. 

One can or twelve large peaches, two coffeecups of sugar, 
one pint of water, and the whites of three eggs; break the 
peaches with and stir all the ingredients together; freeze 
the whole into form; beat the eggs to a froth. 



206 THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 



APPLE FRITTERS. 

One teacup of sweet milk, one tablespoon sweet light 
dough dissolved in milk, three eggs beaten separately, one 
teaspoon of salt, one and a half teacups of flour, one table- 
spoon of sugar, and the grated peel of a lemon, peeled ap- 
ples sliced without the core; drop into hot lard with a 
piece of apple in each one; sprinkle with powdered or 
spiced sugar. Let them stand after making and they will 
be lighter. Good. 

JELLY CAKE FRITTERS. 

Some stale sponge, or plain cup cake, cut into rounds 
with a cake cutter. Hot lard, strawberry or other jam, or 
jelly, a little boiling milk. Cut the cake carefully and fry a 
nice brown. Dip each slice for a second in a bowl of boil- 
ing milk, draining this off on the side of the vessel; lay on 
a hot dish and spread thickly with strawberry jam, peach 
jelly, or other delicate conserve. Pile them neatly and send 
around hot, with cream to pour over them. This is a nice 
way of using up stale cake, and if rightly prepared, the des- 
sert is almost equal to Neapolitan pudding. 

PEACH MERINGUE. 

Pare and quarter (removing stones) a quart of sound, ripe 
peaches, place them all in a dish that it will not injure to set 
in the oven and yet suitable to place on the table. Sprinkle 
the peaches with sugar, and cover them well with the 
beaten whites of three egg3. Stand the dish in the oven 
until the eggs have become a delicate brown, then remove 
and, when cool enpugh, set on a dish of ice, in a very cool 
place. Take the yolks of the eggs, add to them a pint of 
milk, sweeten and flavor and boil same in a custard kettle, 
being careful to keep the eggs from curdling. When cool, 



THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 207 

pour into a glass pitcher and serve with the meriague when 
ready to use. 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 

Whip one quart rich cream to a stiff froth, and drain well 
on a nice sieve. To one scant pint of milk add six eggs 
beaten very light; make very sweet; flavor high with va- 
nilla. Cook over hot water till it is a thick custard. Soak 
one full ouuce Cox's gelatine in a very little water, and 
warm over hot water. When the custard is very cold, beat 
in lightly the gelatine and the whipped cream, Line the 
bottom of your mold with buttered paper, the sides with 
sponge cake or lady-fingers fastened together with the white 
of an egg. Fill with the cream, put in a cold place or in 
summer on ice. To turn out, dip the mold for a moment 
in hot water. In draining the whipped cream, all that 
drips through can be rewhipped. 

JELLIED GRAPES. 

A very delicate dish is made of one-third of a cup of 
rice, two cups of grapes, half a cup of water, and two 
spoons of sugar. Sprinkle the rice and sugar among the 
grapes, while placing them in a deep dish; pour on the 
water, cover close and simmer two hours slowly in the oven. 
Serve warm as sauce, or cold as pudding. If served warm 
as pudding, increase slightly the proportion of rice and 
sugar. 

JELLY AND CUSTARD. 

One-half package of gelatine, soaked in water enough to 
cover it; when soaked pour one pint of boiling water over 
it, then add one cup of white sugar and squeeze the juice of 
one large lemon into it and a little essence of lemon and set 
aside to stiffen. 

Make a custard with a pint and a half of milk, the yolks 



208 THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK, 

of three eggs, one tablespoonful of corn starch; sugar and 
flavoring. When the jelly is set, and just before using, cut 
the jelly into squares, laying them in layers at intervals in 
the bottom of the dish, then pour in some of the cold cus- 
tard, another layer of jelly, and so on until the custard is 
all used. Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, add- 
ing two or three teaspoonfuls of confectioner's sugar and 
lay on in pieces with jelly between. All these recipes are 
better when prepared in a tin set inside of another in which 
there is a little water to prevent danger of burning. 

LEMON TOAST. 

Take the yolks of six eggs, beat them well and add three 
cups of sweet milk; take baker's bread not too stale and cut 
into slices; dip them into the milk and eggs, and lay the 
slices into a spider, with sufficient melted butter, hot, to fry 
a nice delicate brown; take the whites of six eggs, and beat 
them to a froth, adding a large cup of white sugar; add the 
juice of two lemons, heating well, and adding two cups 
boiling water. Serve over the toast as a sauce, and you 
will find it a very delicious dish. 

DISH OF SNOWWHIPPED CREAM. 

To the whites of three eggs beaten to a froth, add a pint 
of cream and four tablespoonfuls of sweet wine, with three 
of fine white sugar and a teaspoonful of extract of lemon or 
vanilla; whip it to a froth and serve in a glass dish; serve 
jelly or jam with it. Or lay lady-fingers or sliced sponge 
cake in a glass dish, put spoonfuls of jelly or jam over, and 
heap the snow upon it. 

OMELET FOR DESSERT. 

Beat six eggs light, add a teaspoonful of salt, and four 
or five macaroons pounded fine, beat them well together; 
fry as usual; strew plentifully with sugar, and serve. 



THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 209 

JELLY FRITTERS. 

Make a batter of two eggs, a pint of milk, and a pint 
bowl of wheat flour or more, beat it light; put a tablespoon- 
ful lard or beef fat in a frying or omelet-pan, add a salt- 
spoonful of salt, make it boiling hot, put in the batter by the 
large spoonful, not too close; when one side is a delicate 
brown, turn the other; when done, take them on to a dish 
with a doily over it, put a dessertspoonful of firm jelly on 
each, and serve. 
u 



210 THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK, 



PRESERVES, CANNED FRUITS, 
JELLY. 



TO PRESERVE PLUMS WITHOUT THE 
SKINS. 

Pour boiling water over large egg or magnum bonum 
plums, cover them until it is cold, then pull off the skins. 
Make a syrup of a pound of sugar and a teacup of water 
for each pound of fruit, make it boiling hot, and pour it 
over; let them remain for a day or two, then drain it off 
and boil again; skim it clear and pour it hot over plums; 
let them remain until the next day, then put them over the 
fire in the syrup, boil them very gently until clear; take them 
from the syrup with a skimmer into the pots or jars; boil 
the syrup until rich and thick, take off any scum which 
may rise, then let it cool and settle, and pour it over the 
plums. If brown sugar is used, which is quite as good, ex- 
cept for greengages, clarify it as directed. 

TO PRESERVE PURPLE PLUMS. 

Make a syrup of clean brown sugar, clarify it as directed 
in these recipes; when perfectly clear and boiling hot, pour 
it over the plums, having picked out all unsound ones, and 
stems; let them remain in the syrup two days, then drain 
it off; make it boiling hot, skim it and pour it over again; 
let them remain another day or two, then put them in a 
preserving-kettle over the fire and simmer gently until the 



THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 211 

syrup is reduced and thick or rich. One pound of sugar 
for each pound of plums. Small damsons are very fine, 
preserved as cherries or any other ripe fruit ; clarify the syrup 
and when boiling hot put in the plums, let them boil very 
gently until they are cooked and the syrup rich. Put them 
in pots or jars; the next day secure as directed. 

PRESERVED GREENGAGES IN SYRUP. 

To every pound of fruit allow one pound of loaf-sugar, 
one-quarter pint of water. Boil the sugar and water to- 
gether for about ten minutes; divide the greengages, take 
out the stones, put the fruit into the syrup, and let it simmer 
gently until nearly tender. Take it off the fire, put it into 
a large pan, and, the next day, boil it up again for about ten 
minutes with the kernels from the stones, which should be 
blanched. Put the fruit carefully into jars, pour it over the 
syrup, and, when cold, cover down, so that the air is quite 
excluded. Let the syrup be well skimmed both the first 
and second day of boiling, otherwise it will not be clear. 

TO PRESERVE CHERRIES IN SYRUP. 

Four pounds of cherries, three pounds of sugar, one pint 
of white-currant juice. Let the cherries be as clear and as 
transparent as possible, and perfectly ripe; pick off the 
stalks, and remove the stones, dam aging the fruit as little as 
you can. Make a syrup with the above proportion of sugar, 
mix the cherries with it, and boil them for about fifteen min- 
utes, carefully skimming them; turn them gently into a pan, 
and let them remain till the next day; then drain the cher- 
ries on a sieve, and put the syrup and white-currant juice 
into the preserving-pan again. Boil these together until 
the syrup is somewhat reduced and rather thick; then put 
in the cherries, and let them boil for about five minutes; 



212 THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 

take them off the fire, skim the syrup, put the cherries into 
small pots or wide-mouthed bottles; pour the syrup over, 
and when quite cold, tie them down carefully, bo that the 
air is quite excluded. 

PRESERVED PEARS. 

To six pounds of pears, four pounds of sugar, two coffee- 
cups of water, the juice of two lemons, and the rind of 
one, a handful of whole ginger; boil all together for twenty 
minutes, then put in your pears and boil till soft, say 
about a quarter of an hour; take them out and boil your 
syrup a little longer; then put back your fruit and give it 
a boil; bottle while hot; add a little cochineal to give them 
a nice color. 

TO PRESERVE PEACHES. 

Peaches for preserving may be ripe but not soft; cut them 
in halves, take out the stones, and pare them neatly; take 
as many pounds of white sugar as of fruit, put to each 
pound of sugar a teacup of water; stir it until it is dissolved, 
set it over a moderate fire, when it is boiling hot, put in the 
peaches, let them boil gently until a pure, clear, uniform 
color; turn those at the bottom to the top carefully with a 
skimmer several times; do not hurry them; when they are 
clear, take each half up with a spoon, and spread the halves 
on flat dishes to become cold; when all are done, let the 
syrup boil until it is quite thick, pour it into a large 
pitcher, and let it set to cool and settle. When the 
peaches are cold, put them carefully into jars, and pour the 
syrup over them, leaving any sediment which has settled 
at the bottom, or strain the syrup. Some of the kernels 
from the peach stones may be put in with the peaches while 
boiling. Let them remain open one night, then cover. 



THE EVEBYDAY COOK-BOOK* 213 

TO PRESERVE CITRON. 

Pare the citrons and cut them into slices about an inch 
and a half thick, then into strips the same thickness, leaving 
them the full length of the fruit; take out all the seeds with 
a small knife, then weigh, and to each pound of citron put 
a pound of white sugar, make a syrup; to ten pounds put 
a pint of water, and simmer gently for twenty minutes; 
then put in the citron and boil for one hour f or until tender; 
before taking off the fire put in two lemons, sliced thin, 
seeds taken out, and two ounces of root ginger; do not let 
them boil long after the lemon and ginger are put in; do 
not stir them while boiling. The above is very fine if care- 
fully attended to. 

CRAB-APPLES. 

To each pound of fruit allow half a pound of sugar, and 
a pint of water to three pounds of sugar. When the syrup 
is boiling hot, drop in the apples. They will cook very 
quickly. "When done, fill a jar with the fruit, and fill it up 
with syrup. 

PINEAPPLE. 

Pare the fruit, and be sure you take out all the eyes and 
discolored parts. Cut in slices, and cut the slices in small 
bits, taking out the core. "Weigh the fruit, and put in a pan 
with half as many pounds of sugar as of fruit. Let it stand 
over night. In the morning put it over the fire and let it 
boil rapidly for a minute only, as cooking long discolors it. 
Put it in the jars as directed. 

GOOSEBERRY JAM. 

To every eight pounds of red, rough, ripe gooseberries, 
allow one quart of r ad-currant juice, five pounds of loaf- 
sugar. Have the fruit gathered in dry weather, and cut C0 1 



.514 THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 

the tops and tails. Prepare one quart of red-currant juice, 
the same as for red-currant jelly; put it into a preserving- 
pan with the sugar, and keep stirring until the latter is dis- 
solved. Keep it boiling for about five minutes; skim well; 
then put in the gooseberries, and let them boil from one- 
half to three-quarters of an hour; then turn the whole into 
an earthen pan, and let it remain for two days. Boil the 
jam up again until it looks clear; put it into pots, and when 
cold cover with oiled paper, and over the jars put tissue 
paper, brushed over on both sides with the white of an eggj 
and store away in a dry place. Care must be taken in 
making this to keep the jam well stirred and well skimmed, 
to prevent it burning at the bottom of the pan, and to have 
it very clear. 

BLACK-CURRANT JAM. 

Pick the currants carefully, and take equal quantities of 
fruit and sugar. Pounded loaf-sugar is best. Dissolve it 
over or mix it with the currants. Put in a very little 
water or red-currant juice, boil and skim for twenty-five 
minutes. 

RASPBERRY JAM. 

To five or six pounds of fine red raspberries (not too ripe) 
add an equal quantity of the finest quality of white sugar. 
Mash the whole well in a preserving-kettle; add about one 
quart of currant juice (a little less will do), and boil gently 
until it jellies upon a cold plate; then put into small jars; 
cover with brandied paper, and tie a thick white paper over 
them. Keep in a dark, dry, and cool place. 

QUINCE PRESERVE. 

Pare, core, and quarter your fruit, then weigh it and 
&Uow an equal quantity of white sugar. Take the parings 



THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 215 

and cores and put in a preserving-kettle; cover them with 
water and boil for half an hour; then strain through a hair 
sieve and put the juice back into the kettle and boil the 
quinces in it a little at a time until they are tender; lift out 
as they are done with a drainer and lay on a dish ; if the 
liquid seems scarce add more water. When all are done 
throw in the sugar and allow it to boil ten minutes before 
putting in the quinces; let them boil until they change 
color, say one hour and a quarter, on a slow fire; while they 
are boiling occasionally slip a silver spoon under them to 
gee that they do not burn, but on no account stir them. 
Have two fresh lemons cut in thin slices, and when the fruit 
is being put in jars lay a slice or two in each. 

RED-CURRANT JELLY. 

Red-currants; to every pint of juice allow three-quarter 
pounds of loaf-sugar. Have the fruit gathered in fine 
weather; pick it from the stalks, put it into a jar, and place 
this jar in a saucepan of boiling water over the fire, and 
let it simmer gently until the juice is well drawn from the 
currants; then strain them through a jelly-bag of fine cloth, 
and, if the jelly is washed very clear, do not squeeze them 
too much, as the skin and pulp from the fruit will be pressed 
through vuth the juice, and so make the jelly muddy. 
Measure the juice, and to each pint allow three-quarter 
pounds of loaf-sugar; put these into a preserving-pan, set 
it over the fire, and keep stirring the jelly until it is done ? 
carefully removing every particle of scum as it rises, using 
a wooden or silver spoon for the purpose, as metal or iron 
ones would spoil the color of the jelly. When it has boiled 
from twenty minutes to a half hour, put a little of the jelly 
on a plate, and if firm, when cool, it is done. Take it off the 
fire, pour it into small gallipots, cover each of the pots with 
an oiled paper, and then with a piece of tissue paper 



216 THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 

brushed over on both sides with the white of an egg. Label 
the pots, adding the year when the jelly was made, and 
store it away in a dry place. A jam may be made with the 
currants, if they are not squeezed too dry, by adding a few 
fresh raspberries, and boiling all together with sufficient 
sugar to sweeten it nicely. As this preserve is not worth 
storing away, but is only for immediate eating, a smaller 
proportion of sugar than usual will be found enough; it 
answers very well for children's puddings, or for a nursery 
preserve. 

APPLE JELLY. 

Apples, water; to every pint of syrup allow three-quar- 
ters of a pound of loaf-sugar. Pare and cut the apples 
into pieces, remove the cores, and put them in a preserv- 
ing-pan with sufficient cold water to cover them. Let them 
boil for an hour; then drain the syrup from them through 
a hair sieve or jelly-bag, and measure the juice; to every 
pint allow three-quarters of a pound of loaf-sugar, and boil 
these together for three-quarters of an hour, removing 
every particle of scum as it rises, and keeping the jelly well 
stirred, that it may not burn, A little lemon-rind may be 
boiled with the apples, and a small quantity of strained 
lemon-juice may be put in the jelly, just before it is done, 
when the flavor is liked. This jelly may be ornamented 
with preserved greengages, or any other preserved fruit, 
and will turn out very prettily for dessert. It should be 
stored away in small pots. 

BLACK-CURRANT JELLY. 

Pick each currant individually, and heat the lot in a jar 
set in boiling water, squeeze as before, and allow a pint of 
juice to a pound of sugar, a little water may be added if 
thought proper, or a little red- currant juice. Boil for half 



THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK 21T 

an hour, carefully removing the skimmings. Another ^?ay : 
Clarify the sugar, and add the fruit to it whole, boil foi 
twenty minutes, and strain, then boil a few minutes ad- 
ditional. Pot it and paper it when cool. The refuse 
berries may be kept as black-currant jam, for tarts, dump* 
lings, etc. 

CRAB-APPLE JELLY. 

Wash the fruit clean, put in a kettle, cover with water, and 
boil until thoroughly cooked. Then pour it into a sieve, 
and let it drain. Do not press it through. For each pint 
of this liquor allow one pound of sugar. Boil from twenty 
minutes to half an hour. 

OTHER JELLIES. 

Jellies can be made from quinces, peaches and apples by 
following the directions for crab-apple jelly. 

WINE JELLY. 

One box of Cox's gelatine, dissolved in one pint of cold 
water, one pint of wine, one quart of boiling water, one 
quart of granulated sugar, and three lemons. 

CALVES' FEET JELLY 

Should be made at any rate the day before % in required. 
It is a simple affair to prepare it. Procure a couple of leet and 
put them on the fire in three quarts of water; let them boil 
for five hours, during which keep skimming. Fass the 
liquor through a hair sieve into a basin, and let it firm, after 
which remove all the oil and fat. Next take a teacupful of 
water, two wineglassfuls of sherry, the juice of half a dozen 
lemons and the rind of one, the whites and shells of five 
eggs, half a pound of fine white sugar, and whisk the ^bofe 



218 THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOR. 

till the sugar be melted, then add the jelly, place the 
whole on the fire in an enameled stewpan, and keep actively 
stirring till the composition comes to the boil; pass it twice 
through a jelly-bag, and then place in the molds. 

ORANGE MARMALADE. 

Allow pound for pound. Pare half the oranges and cut 
the rind into shreds. Boil in three waters until tender, 
and set aside. Grate the rind of the remaining oranges; 
take off and throw away every bit of the thick white inner 
skin; quarter all the oranges and take out the seeds. Chop, 
or cut them into small pieces; drain all the juice that will 
come away, without pressing them, over the sugar; heat 
this, stirring until the sugar is dissolved, adding a very little 
water, unless the oranges are very juicy. Boil and skim 
five or six minutes; put in the boiled shreds, and cook ten 
minutes; then the chopped fruit and grated peel, and boil 
twenty minutes longer. When cold, put into small jars, 
tied up with bladder or with paper next the fruit, cloths 
dipped in wax over all. A nicer way still is to put away in 
tumblers with self-adjusting metal tops. Press brandied 
tissue paper down closely to the fruit. 

LEMON MARMALADE 

Is made as you would prepare orango — allowing a pound 
and a quarter of sugar to a pound of the fruit, and using 
but half the grated peel. 

QUINCE MARMALADE. 

Gather the fruit when fully ripe; pare, quarter and core 
it; boil the skins with as many teacupfuls of water 
as you have pounds of quinces; when they are soft, mash 
them, and strain the water from them, and put it to the 



TUB EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 219 

quinces; boil them until they are soft enough to mash them 
fine; rub them through a sieve; put to the pulp as many 
pounds of sugar; stir them together, and set them over a 
gentle fire, until it will fall from a spoon, like jelly; or try 
some in a saucer. If it jellies when cold, it is enough. 

Put it in pots or tumblers, and when cold, secure as 
directed for jelly, 

PEACH MARMALADE. 

Peel ripe peaches, stone them, and cut them small; weigh 
three-quarters of a pound of sugar for each pound of cut 
fruit, and a teacup of water for each pound of sugar; set it 
over the fire; when it boils, skim it clear, then put in the 
peaches, let them boil quite fast; mash them fine, and let 
them boil until the whole is a jellied mass, and thick, then 
put it in small jars or tumblers; when cold, secure it as di- 
rected for jellies. Half a pound of sugar for a pound of 
fruit will make nice marmalade. 



APPLE BUTTER. 

Boil one barrel of new cider down half, peel and core 
three bushels of good cooking apples; when the cider has 
boiled to half the quantity, add the apples, and when soft, 
stir constantly for from eight to ten hours. If done it will 
adhere to an inverted plate. Put away in stone jars (not 
earthen ware), covering first with writing-paper cut to fit the 
jar, and press down closely upon the apple butter; cover the 
whole with thick brown paper snugly tied dovtfa. 

LEMON BUTTER. 

Beat six eggs, one-fourth pound butter, one pound sugar, 
the rind and juice of three lemons; mix together and set 



220 THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 

in a pan of hot water to cook. Very nice for tarts, or to 
eat with bread. 

PEACH BUTTER. 

Take pound for pound of peaches and sugar; cook peaches 
alone until they become soft, then put in one-half the sugar, 
and stir for one-half hour; then the remainder of the sugar, 
and stir an hour and a half. Season with cloves and cin- 
namon. 

APPLE GINGER. 

(A DES3ERT DISH). 

Two pounds of any kind of hard apples, two pounds of 
loaf-sugar, one and one-half pints of water, one ounce of 
tincture of ginger. Boil the sugar and water until they 
form a rich syrup, adding the ginger when it boils up. 
Pare, core, and cut the apples into pieces; dip them in cold 
water to preserve the color, and boil them in the syrup un- 
til transparent; but be careful not to let them break. Put 
the pieces of apple into jars, pour over the syrup, and care- 
fully exclude the air, by well covering them. It will remain 
good for some time, if kept in a dry place. 

ICED CURRANTS. 

One-quarter pint of water, the whites of two eggs, cur- 
rants, pounded sugar. Select very fine bunches of red or 
white currants, and well beat the whites of the eggs. Mix 
these with water; then take the currants, a bunch at a time, 
and dip them in; let them drain for a minute or two, and 
roll them in very finely-pounded sugar. Lay them to dry 
on paper, when the sugar will crystallize round each cur- 
rant, and have a very pretty effect. All fresh fruit may be 
prepared in the same manner; and a mixture of various 



THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK, 221 

fruits iced in this manner, and arranged on one dish, looks 
very well for a summer dessert, 

TO BOTTLE FRESH FRUIT. 

(vert useful in winter). 

Fresh fruit, such as currants, raspberries, cherries, goose- 
berries, plums of all kinds, damsons, etc.; wide-mouthed 
glass bottles, new corks to fit them tightly. Let the fruit 
be full grown, but not too ripe, and gathered in dry weather. 
Pick it off the stalks without bruising or breaking the skin, 
and reject any that is at all blemished; if gathered in the 
damp, or if the skins are cut at all, the fruit will mold. 
Have ready some perfectly dry glass bottles, and some nice 
new soft corks or bungs; burn a match in each bottle, to 
exhaust the air, and quickly place the fruit in to be pre- 
served; gently cork the bottles, and put them into a very 
cool oven, where let them remain until the fruit has shrunk 
away a fourth part. Then take the bottles out, do not open 
them, but immediately beat the corks in tight, cut off the 
tops, and cover them with melted rosin. If kept m a dry 
place, the fruit will remain good for months; and on this 
principally depends the success of the preparation, for if 
stored away in a place that is the least damp, the fruit will 
soon spoiL 

TO GREEN FRUIT FOR PRESERVING IN 
SUGAR OR VINEGAR. 

Apples, pears, limes, plums, apricots, etc., for preserving 
or pickling, may be greened thus: Put vine-leaves under, 
between, and over the fruit in a preserving-kettle; put small 
bits of alum, the size of a pea, say a dozen bits to a kettle- 
ful; put enough water to cover the fruit, cover the kettle 



222 THE E VER YD A I COOK-BOOK. 

close to exclude all outer air, set it over a gentle fire, let 
them simmer; when they are tender drain off the water; if 
they are not a fine green let them become cold, then put 
vine-leaves and a bit of saleratus or soda* with them, and 
set them over a slow fire until they begin to simmer; a bit 
of soda or saleratus the size of a small nutmeg will have 
:he desired effect; then spread them out to cool, after which 
finish as severally directed. 

TO COLOR PRESERVES PINK. 

By putting in with it a little cochineal powdered fine, 
then finish in the syrup. 

TO COLOR FRUIT YELLOW. 

Boil the fruit with fresh skin lemons in water to cover 
them, until it is tender; then take it up, spread it on dishes 
to cool, and finish as may be directed. 

CANNED STRAWBERRIES. 

After the berries are pulled, let as many as can be put 
carefully in the preserve kettle at once be placed on a plat- 
ter. To each pound of fruit add three-fourths of a pound 
of sugar; let them stand two or three hours, till the juice 
is drawn from them ; pour it in the kettle and let it come to 
a boil, and remove the scum which rises; then put in the 
berries very carefully. As soon as they come thoroughly to 
a boil put them in warm jars, and seal while boiling hot. Be 
sure the cans are air-tight. 

CANNED PEACHES. 

Select some fine, free-stone peaches; pare, cut in two and 
stone them. Immerse in cold water, taking care not to 



THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 223 

break the fruit. See that the peaches are not over ripe. 
Place in the kettle, scattering sugar between the layers — the 
sugar should be in the proportion of a full tablespoonful 
to a quart of fruit. To prevent burning put a little water in 
the kettle. Heat slowly to a boil, then boil for three or foul 
minutes. Can and seal the fruit. 



CANNED PEARS. 

Prepare and can precisely like peaches in preceding rec- 
ipe, except that they require longer cooking. When dona 
they are easily pierced with a silver fork. 



CANNED PLUMS. 

To every pound of fruit allow three-quarters of a pound 
of sugar; for the thin syrup, a quarter of a pound of sugar 
to each pint of water. Select fine fruit, and prick with a 
needle to prevent bursting. Simmer gently in a syrup 
made with the above proportion of sugar and water. Let 
them boil not longer than five minutes. Put the plums in 
a jar, pour in the hot syrup, and seaL Greengages are also 
delicious done in this manner, 



CANNED CURRANTS. 

Look them over carefully, stem and weigh them, allowing 
a pound of sugar to every one of fruit; put them in a ket- 
tle, cover, and leave them to heat slowly and stew gently 
for twenty or thirty minutes; then add the sugar, and skake 
the kettle occasionally to make it mix with the fruit; do 
not allow it to boil, but keep as hot as possible until the 
sugar is dissolved, then pour it in cans and secure the covers 



324 YH& AVERY DAY COOK-BOOK. 

at once. White currants are beautiful preserved in thii 
way. 

CANNED PINEAPPLE. 

For sis pounds of fruit when cut and ready to can make 
syrup with two and a half pounds of sugar and nearly 
three pints of water; boil syrup five minutes and skim or 
strain if necessary; then add the fruit, and let it boil up; 
have cans hot, fill and shut up as soon as possible. Use 
the best white sugar. As the cans cool, keep tightening 
them up. 

TO CAN QUINCES. 

Cut the quinces into thin slices like apples for pies. To 
one quart jarful of quince take a coffee-saucer and a half 
of sugar and a coffeecup of water; put the sugar and 
water on the fire, and when boiling put in the quinces; 
have ready the jars with their fastenings, stand the jars in 
a pan of boiling water on the stove, and when the quince 
is clear and tender put rapidly into the jars, fruit and 
syrup together. The jars must be filled so that the syrup 
overflows, and fastened up tight as quickly as possible. 



CANNING TOMATOES. 

Scald your tomatoes, remove the skins, cut in small pieces, 
put in a porcelain kettle, salt to taste, and boil fifteen min- 
utes; have tin cans filled with hot water; pour the water 
out and fill with tomatoes; solder tops on immediately with 
shellac and rosin melted together. 



CANNED CORN, 
Dissolve an ounce of tartaric acid in half teacup water, 



THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 225 

and take one tablespoon to two quarts of sweet corn; cook, 
and while boiling hot, fill the cans, which should be tin. 
When used turn into a colander, rinse with cold water, add 
a little soda and sugar while cooking, and season with but- 
ter, pepper and salt* 



226 THE EVER YD A Y COOK BOOK. 



ICES, ICE-CREAM, CANDY. 



CURRANT ICE. 

Ona pint of currant*juice, one pound of sugar, and pint 
of water; put in freezer, and when partly frozen add the 
whites of three eggs well beaten. 

STRAWBERRY OR RASPBERRY ICE. 

One quart of berries. Extract the juice and strain; one 
pint of suga7, dissolved in the juice; one lemon, juice only; 
half pint water. 

ORANGE AND LEMON ICES. 

The rind of three oranges grated and steeped a few mo- 
ments in a little more than a pint of water; strain one pint 
of this on a pound of sugar and then add one pint of orange 
or lemon-juice; pour in a freezer, and when half frozen add 
the whites of four eggs beaten to a stiff froth. 

ICE-CREAM. 

One quart of new milk, two eggs, two tablespoons of corn 
starch; heat the milk in a dish set in hot water, then stir in 
the corn starch mixed smooth in a little of the milk; let it 
boil for one or two minutes, then remove from stove and 
cool, and stir in the egg and half a pound of sugar. If to 
be extra nice, add a pint of rich cream, and one-fourtb 



THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 227 

ponnd of sugar, strain the mixture, and when oool add the 
flavoring, and freeze as follows: Prepare freezer in the 
usual manner, turn the crank one hundred times, then pour 
upon the ice and salt a quart of boiling water from the tea- 
kettle. Fill up again with ice and salt, turn the crank fifty 
times one way and twenty-five the other (which serves to 
scrape the cream from sides of freezer) ; by this time it will 
turn very hard, indicating that the cream is frozen suffic- 
iently. 

VANILLA OR LEMON ICE-CREAM. 

Take two drachms of vanilla or lemon-peel, one quart of 
milk, half a pound of sugar, one pint of cream, and the 
yolks of three eggs; beat the yolks well, and stir them with 
the milk, then add the other ingredients; set it over a 
moderate fire, and stir it constantly with a silver spoon 
until it is boiling hot, then take out the lemon-peel or va- 
nilla, and, when cold, freeze it. 



STRAWBERRY ICE-CREAM. 

Sprinkle strawberries with sugar, wash well and rub 
through a sieve; to a pint of the juice add half a pint of 
good cream; make it very sweet; freeze, and when begin- 
ning to set, stir lightly one pint of cream whipped, and 
lastly a handful of whole strawberries, sweetened. It may 
then be put in a mold and imbedded in ice, or kept in the 
freezer; or mash with a potato pounder in an earthen bowl 
one quart of strawberries with one pound of sugar, rub it 
through a colander, add one quart of sweet cream and 
freeze. Or, if not in the strawberry season, use the French 
bottled strawberries (or any canned ones), mix juice with 
half a pint of cream, sweeten and freeze; when partially set 
add whipped cream and strawberries. 



228 THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 



CHOCOLATE ICE-CREAM. 

Take six ounces of chocolate, a pint of cream, half a pint 
of new milk, and half a pint of sugar. Rub the chocolate 
down into the milk and mix thoroughly, adding the cream 
and sugar. The milk should be heated almost to boiling. 
Heat until it thickens, stirring constantly. Strain and set 
aside to cool, afterwards freeze. This makes perhaps the 
most favorite of ice-creams. 

CREAM CANDIES. 

Three and one-half pounds of sugar to one and one-half 
pints of water; dissolve in the water before putting with 
the sugar one-quarter of an ounce of fine white gum-arabic, 
and when added to the sugar put in one teaspoon of cream 
of tartar. The candy should not be boiled quite to the 
brittle stage. The proper degree ca - n be ascertained if, 
when a small skimmer is put in and taken out, when blow- 
ing through the holes of the skimraer, the melted sugar 
is forced through in feather filaments; remove from the fire 
at this point and rub the syrup against the sides of the dish 
with an iron spoon. If it is to be a chocolate candy, add 
two ounces of chocolate finely sifted and such flavoring as 
you may prefer, vanilla, rolls, or orange. If you wish to 
make cocoanut candy, add this while soft and stir until cold. 

PINEAPPLE ICE-CREAM. 

Three pints of cream, two large ripe pineapples, two 
pounds powdered sugar; slice the pineapples thin, scatter the 
sugar between the slices, cover and let the fruit stand three 
hours, cut or chop it p in the syrup, and strain through 
a hair sieve or double bag of coarse lace; beat gradually 
into the cream, and freeze as rapidly as possible; reserve a 
few pieces of pineapy>le unsucrared, cut into square bits, and 




Nouqat Almond Cake 



Blanc-Mange a la Van ill 3 



JELLIES, CREAMS and CONFECTIONS 



THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 229 

stir through cream when half frozen, first a pint of well- 
whipped cream, and then the fruit. Peach ice-cream may 
be made in the same way. 

ITALIAN CREAM. 

Put one ounce of soaked isinglass, six ounces of loaf- 
sugar, half a stick of vanilla, and one pint of milk into a 
saucepan; boil slowly; and stir all the time until the isin- 
glass is dissolved; strain the mixture, and when a little cool 
mix with a pint of thick cream. Beat thoroughly until it 
thickens. Pour into large or individual molds, and put in 
ice-box until wanted. 

TO MAKE BARLEY-SUGAR. 

To every pound of sugar allow one-half pint of water, 
one-half the white of an egg. Put the sugar into a well- 
tinned saucepan, with the water, and when the former is 
dissolved, set it over a moderate fire, adding the well-beaten 
egg before the mixture gets warm, and stir it well together. 
When it boils, remove the scum as it rises, and keep it boil- 
ing until no more appears, and the syrup looks perfectly 
clear; then strain it through a fine sieve or muslin bag, and 
put it back into the saucepan. Boil it again like caramel, 
until it is brittle when a little is dropped into a basin of 
cold water; it is then sufficiently boiled. Add a little lemon- 
juice and a few drops of the essence of lemon, and let it 
stand for a minute or two. Have ready a marble slab or 
large dish rubbed over with salad oil, pour the sugar on 
it, and cut it into strips with a pair of scissors; these strips 
should then be twisted, and the barley-sugar stored away in 
a very dry place. It may be formed into lozenges or drops, 
by dropping the sugar in a very small quantity at a time on 
to the oiled slab or dish. 



230 THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 



TO MAKE EVERTON TOFFEE. 

One pound of powdered loaf-sugar, one teacupful o! 
water, one-quarter pound of butter, six drops of essence of 
lemon. Put the water and sugar into a brass pan, and beat 
the butter to a cream. When the sugar is dissolved, add 
the butter, and k;;ep stirring the mixture over the fire until 
it sets when a little is poured on to a buttered dish; and 
just before the toffee is done add the essence of lemon. 
Butter a dish or tin, pour on it the mixture, and when cool 
it will easily separate from the dish. Butter- Scotch, an ex- 
cellent thing for coughs, is made with brown, instead of white 
sugar, omitting the water, and flavored with one-half ounce 
of ginger. It is made in the same manner as toffee. 

COCOANUT DROPS. 

To one grated cocoanut add half its weight of sugar and 
the white of one egg f cut to a stiff froth; mix thoroughly 
and drop on buttered white paper or tin sheets. Bake fif- 
teen minutes. 

MOLASSES CANDY. 

One cup of molasses, two cups of sugar, one tablespoon 
vinegar, a little butter and vaniila, boil ten minutes, then 
cool it enough to pull. 

CHOCOLATE CARAMELS. 

Two cups of brown sugar, one cup molasses, one cup 
chocolate grated fine, one cup of boiled milk, one tablespoon 
of flour; butter the size of a large English walnut; let 
it boil slowly and pour on flat tins to cool; mark oflf 
while warm. 



THE E VER YD A Y COOK-BOOK. 231 

LEMON CANDY. 

Put into a kettle three and one-half pounds of sugar, 
one and one-half pints of water, and one teaspoon of cream 
of tartar. Let it boil until it becomes brittle when dropped 
in cold water; when sufficiently done take off the fire and 
pour in a shallow dish which has been greased with a little 
butter. When this has cooled so that it can be handled, 
add a teaspoon of tartaric acid and the same quantity of 
extract of lemon, and work them into the mass. The acid 
must be fine and free from lumps. V/ork this in until 
evenly distributed, and no more, as it will tend to destroy 
the transparency of the candy. This method may be used 
for preparing all other candies, as pineapple, etc., using 
different flavors. 



232 THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 



DRINKS. 



TO MAKE GREEN TEA. 

Have ready. a kettle of water boiling fast, pour some into 
the teapot, let it remain for a few minutes, then throw it 
out; measure a teaspoonful of tea for each two persons, put 
it in the pot, pour on it about a gill of boiling water, cover 
it close for five minutes, then fill it up; have a covered 
pitcher of boiling water with it; when two cups are poured 
from it, fill it up; you will thus keep the strength good and 
equal. If the company is large, it is best to have some of 
the tea drawn in the covered pitcher, and replenish the tea- 
pot or urn when it is exhausted. 

TO MAKE BLACK TEA. 

Make as directed for green tea. 

ICED TEA. 

Prepare tea in the morning, making it stronger and 
sweeter than usual; strain and pour into a clean stone jug 
or glass bottle, and set aside in the ice-chest until ready to 
use. Drink from goblets without cream. Serve ice broken 
in small pieces on a platter nicely garnished with well-washed 
grape-leaves. Iced tea may be prepared from either green 
or black alone, but it is considered an improvement to mix 
the two. Tea made like that for iced tea (or that left in 



THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 233 

the teapot after a meal), with sugar to taste, a slice or two 
of lemon, a little of the juice, and some pieces of cracked 
ice, makes a delightful drink. Serve in glasses. 

TO MAKE COFFEE. 

Take a good-sized cupful of ground coffee, and pour into 
a quart of boiling water, with the white of an egg and 
the crushed shell. Stir well together, adding a half-cupful 
of cold water to clear. Put into the coffee-boiler and boil 
for about a quarter of an hour; after standing for a little 
while to settle, pour into your coffeepot, which should be 
well scalded, and send to the table. The coffee should be 
stirred as it boils. To make coffee au hit, take a pint each 
of hot made coffee and boiling milk ; strain through thin 
muslin into coffeepot, to get rid of the grounds, and serve 
hot 

CHOCOLATE. 

Take six tablespoons scraped chocolate, or three of choc- 
olate and three of cocoa, dissolve in a quart of boiling water, 
boil hard fifteen minutes, add one quart of rich milk, let 
scald and serve hot; this is enough for six persons. Cocoa 
can also be made after this receipt. Some boil either cocoa 
or chocolate only one minute and then serve, while others 
make it the day before using, boiling it for one hour, and 
when cool skimming off the oil, and when wanted for use, 
heat it to the boiling point and add the milk. In this way 
it is equally good and much more wholesome. Cocoa is 
from the seed of the fruit of a small tropical tree. There 
are several forms in which it is sold, the most nutritious 
and convenient being chocolate, the next cocoa, then cocoa 
nibs, and last cocoa shells. The ground bean is simply 
cocoa; ground fine and mixed with sugar it is chocolate; 
the beans broken into bits are "nibs." The shells are the 
shells of the bean, usually removed before grinding. The 



234 THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 

beans are roasted like coffee", and grouad between hot 

rollers. 

LEMON SYRUP. 

Take the juice of twelve lemons, grate the rind of six in 
it, let it stand over night, then take six pounds of white 
sugar, and make a thick syrup. When it is quite cool, strain 
the juice into it, and squeeze as much oil from the grated 
rind as will suit the taste. A tablespoonful in a goblet of 
water will make a delicious drink on a hot day, far superior 
to that prepared from the stuff commonly sold as lemon 
syrup. 

STRAWBERRY SYRUP. 

Take fine ripe strawberries, crush them in a cloth, and 
press the juice from them; to each pint of it put a pint of 
simple syrup, boil gently for one hour, then let it become 
cold, and bottle it; cork and seal it. When served reduce 
it to taste with water, set it on ice, and serve in small tum- 
blers half filled. 

RASPBERRY SYRUP. 

Make as directed for strawberry. 

STRAWBERRY SHERBET. 

Take fourteen ounces of picked strawberries, crush them 
in a mortar, then add to them a quart of water; pour this 
into a basin, with a lemon sliced, and a teaspoonful of 
orange-flower water; let it remain for two or three hours. 
Put eighteen ounces of sugar into another basin, cover it 
with a cloth, through which pour the strawberry -juice; after 
as much has run through as will, gather up the cloth, and 
squeeze out as much juice as possible from it; when the 



TRE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. „ 235 

sugar is all dissolved, strain it again; set the vessel con- 
taining it on ice, until ready to serve. 

RASPBERRY VINEGAR. 

To four quarts red raspberries, put enough vinegar to 
cover, and let them stand twenty-four hours; scald and 
strain it; add a pound of sugar to one pint of juice; boil 
it twenty minutes, and bottle; it is then ready for use and 
will keep years. To one glass of water add a great spoon- 
ful. It is much relished by the sick. Very nice. 

LEMONADE. 

Take half a pound of loaf-sugar and reduce it to a syrup 
with one pint of water; add the rind of five lemons and 
let stand an hour; remove the rinds and add the strained 
juice of the lemons; add one bottle of "Apollinaris" water, 
and a block of ice in centre of bowl. Peel one lemon and 
cut it up into thin slices, divide each slice in two, and 
put in lemonade. Claret or fine cordials may be added 
if desired. Serve with a piece of lemon in each glass. 

EGG-NOG. 

Whip the whites and yolks of six eggs into a stiff cream, 
adding a half cupful of sugar. Pour into a quart of rich 
milk, adding a half pint of good brandy, and a little flavor- 
ing of nutmeg. Stir up and thoroughly mix the ingredi- 
ents, and add the whites of three additional eggs well 
whipped. 

RAISIN WINE. 

Take two pounds of raisins, seed and chop them, ft 
lemon, a pound of white sugar, and about two gallons of 



235 THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 

boiling water. Poor into a stone jar, and stir daily for six 
or eight days. Strain, bottle, and put in a cool plaoe for 
ten days or 60, when the wine will be ready for use* 

CURRANT WINE. 

The currants should be quite ripe. Stem, mash, and strain 
them, adding a half pint of water, and less than a pound of 
sugar, to a quart of the mashed fruit. Stir well up together 
and pour into a clean cask, leaving the bung-hole open, or 
covered with a piece of lace. It should stand for a month 
to ferment, when it will be ready for bottling. 

GINGER WINE. 

One-half pound of cinnamon bark, four ounces of pimento, 
two ounces of mace, three-quarters of an ounce of capsi- 
cum, three-quarters of a pound of ginger root, five gallons of 
alcohol; macerate and strain or filter, after standing fifteen 
days. Now make syrup, thirty pounds of white sugar, 
half pound of tartaric acid, one and a half pounds of 
cream tartar, dissolved with warm water, clarify with whites 
of two eggs, and add soft water to make forty gallons. 
Color with cochineal and let it stand six months before use. 

FINE MILK PUNCH. 

Pare off the yellow rind of four large lemons, and steep 
it for twenty-four hours in a quart of brandy or rum. Then 
mix with it the juice of the lemons, a pound and a half of 
loaf-sugar; two grated nutmegs, and a quart of water. 
Add a quart of rich unskimmed milk, made boiling hot, 
and strain the whole through a jelly-bag. You may either 
use it as soon as it is cold, or make a larger quantity (in 
the above proportion), and bottle it. It will keep several 
months. 



THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK, 237 

CLARET CUP. 

One quart bottle of claret, one bottle of soda water, one 
lemon cut very thin, four tablespoons of powdered sugar, 
quarter of a teaspoon of grated nutmeg, one liquor glass 
of brandy, one wineglass of sherry wine. Half an hour 
before it is to be used, put in a large piece of ice, so that it 
may get perfectly cold. 

ROMAN PUNCH. 

Grate the yellow rinds of four lemons and two oranges 
upon two pounds of loaf-sugar. Squeeze on the juice of 
the lemons and oranges; cover it, and let it stand till next 
day. Then strain it through a sieve, add a bottle of cham- 
pagne, and the whites of eight eggs beaten to a froth. You 
may freeze it or not 

CREAM NECTAR. 

Dissolve two pounds of crushed sugar in three quarts of 
water; boil down to two quarts; drop in the white of an 
egg while boiling; then strain, and put in the tartaric acid; 
when cold drop in the lemon to your taste; then bottle and 
cork. Shake two or three times a day. 

RED-CURRANT CORDIAL. 

To two quarts of red-currants put one quart of whiskey; 
let it stand twenty-four hours, then bruise and strain 
through a flannel bag. To every two quarts of this liquor, 
add one pound of loaf-sugar, add quarter of a pound of 
ginger well bruised and boiled; let the whole stand to set- 
tle, then strain or filter; bottle and cork, seal the corks 
tightly. It is an improvement to have half red-raspberry 
juice if the flavor is liked. The above is flt for use in a 
month. 



!^3 THE EVERYDAY COOK BOOK. 

ELDERBERRY SYRUP. 

Take elderberries perfectly ripe, wash and strain th6m, 
put a pint of molasses to a pint of the juice, boil it twenty- 
minutes, stirring constantly, when cold add to each quart a 
pint of French brandy; bottle aad cork it tight. lb ia an 
excellent remedy for a cough. 



THE EVKHYDAY COOK-BOOK. 259 



INVALID COOKERY. 



PORT WINE JELLY. 

Melt in a little warm water an onnce of isinglass; stir it 
into a pint of port wine, adding two ounces of sugar candy, 
an ounce of gum-arabic, and half a nutmeg, grated. Mix 
all well and boil it ten minutes; or till everything is thor- 
oughly dissolved. Then strain it through muslin and set 
it away to get cold. 

TAPIOCA JELLY. 

Wash the tapioca carefully in two or three waters, then 
soak it for five or six hours, simmer it then in astewpan un- 
til it becomes quite clear, add a little of the juice of a 
lemon, wine if desired. 

ARROWROOT WINE JELLY. 

One cup boiling water, two heaping teaspoons arrowroot, 
two heaping teaspoons white sugar, one tablespoonful 
brandy or three tablespoonfuls of wine. An excellent cor- 
rective to weak bowels. 

JELLIED CHICKEN. 

Cook six chickens in a small quantity of wafer, until the 
meat will part from the bone easily; season to taste with 
salt and pepper; just as soon as cold enough to handle, re- 
move bones and skin; place meat in a deep pan or mold, 
just as it comes from the bone, using gizzard, liver and heart, 
until the mold is nearly full. To the water left in the kettle, 



240 THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOR. 

add three-fourths of a box of Cox's gelatine (some add 
juice of lemon), dissolved in a little warm water, and boil 
until it is reduced to ajittle less than a quart, pour over the 
chicken in the mold, leave to cool, cut with a very sharp 
knife and serve. The slices will not easily break up if di- 
rections are followed. 

CHICKEN BROTH. 

Half fowl, or the inferior joints of a whole one, one quart 
of water, one blade of mace, half onion, a small bunch of 
sweet herbs, salt to taste, ten peppercorns. If a young one 
be used for this broth, the inferior joints may be put in the 
broth, and the best pieces reserved for dressing in some 
otber manner. Put the fowl into a saucepan, with all the 
ingredients, and simmer gently for one and a half hours, 
carefully skimming the broth well. When done, strain, and 
put by in a cool place until wanted; then take all the fat off 
the top, warm up as much as may be required, and serve. 
This broth is, of course, only for those invalids whose 
stomachs are strong enough to digest it, with a flavoring of 
herbs, etc. It may be made in the same manner as beef- 
tea, with water and salt only; but the preparation will be 
but tasteless and insipid. When the invalid cannot digest 
this chicken broth with the flavoring, we would recommend 
plain beef tea in preference to plain chicken tea, which it 
would be without the addition of herbs, onions, etc. 

TO MAKE GRUEL. 

One tablespoonful of Robinson's patent groats, two table- 
epoonfuls of cold water, one pint of boiling water. Mix 
the prepared groats smoothly with the cold water in a basin ; 
pour over them the boiling water, stirring it all the time. Put 
it into a very clean saucepan ; boil the gruel for ten minutes, 
keeping it well stirred; sweeten to taste, and serve. It may 



THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 241 

be flavored with a small piece of lemon-peel, by boiling it in 
the gruel, or a little grated nutmeg may be put in; but in 
these matters the taste of the patient should be consulted- 
Pour the gruel in a tumbler and serve. When wine is 
allowed to the invalid, two tablespoonfuls of sherry or port 
make this preparation very nice. In cases of colds, the 
same quantity of spirits is sometimes added instead of wine. 



BARLEY WATER. 

Put a large tablespoonful of well- washed pearl barley into 
a pitcher; pour over it boiling water; cover it, and let it re- 
main till cold; then drain off the water; sweeten to taste, 
and, if liked, ad J the juice of a lemon, and grated nutmeg. 



ARROWROOT BLANC-MANGE. 

Put a quart of milk to boil, take an ounce of Bermuda 
arrowroot ground fine, make it a smooth batter with cold 
milk, add a teaspoonful of salt; when the milk is boiling 
hot, stir the batter into it, continue to stir it over a gentle 
fire (that it may not be scorched) for three or four minutes, 
sweeten to taste with double refined sugar, and flavor with 
lemon extract or orange-flower water, or boil a stick of 
cinnamon or vanilla bean in the milk before putting in the 
arrowroot; dip a mold into cold water, strain the blanc- 
mange through a muslin into the mold, when perfectly cold 
turn it out; serve currant jelly or jam with it. 



LEMONADE FOR INVALIDS. 

One-half a lemon, lump sugar to taste, one pint of boil- 
ing water. Pare off the rind of the lemon thinly; cut the 

lemon into two or three thick slices, and remove as much 

M 



212 THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 

as possible of the white outside pith, and all the pips. Put 
the slices of lemon, the peel, and lump sugar into a jug; 
poar over the boiling water; cover it closely, and in two 
hours it will be fit to drink. It should either be strained or 
poured off from the sediment. 

MUTTON BROTH 

Is frequently ordered as a preparation for invalids. For 
the sick-room such broth must be made as plainly as pos- 
sible, and so a3 to secure the juice of the meat. Boil slowly 
a couple of pounds of lean mutton for two hours, skim it 
very carefully as it simmers, and do not put in very much 
salt. If the doctor permits, some vegetable as seasoning 
may be added, and for some broths a little fine barley or 
rice is added. 

FLAX SEED LEMONADE. 

Four tablespoons flax seed (whole), cue quart boiling 
water poured on the flax seed, juice of two lemons, leaving 
out the peel. Sweeten to taste; stew three hours in a 
covered pitcher. If too thick, put in cold water with the 
lemon-juice and sugar. Ice for drinking. It is splendid 
for colds. 

ARROWROOT. 

This is very nourishing and light, either for invalids or 
infants; make it with milk or water — put a pint of either 
into a stewpan, make it boiling hot, add a saltspooniul of 
salt, put a heaped teaspoonful of ground Bermuda arrow- 
root into a cup, make it smooth with cold milk, stir it into 
the stewpan, and let it simmer for two or three minutes; 
then turn it into a bowl, sweeten and grate nutmeg over, if 
liked; should it be preferred thin, use less arrowroot. This 
should be made only as much as is wanted at a tinie r 
since it will become as thin as water if heated over. 



THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK, 243 



STEWED RABBITS IN MILK. 

Two very young rabbits, not nearly half grown; one and 
one-half pints of milk, one blade of mace, one dessertspoon- 
ful of flour, a little salt and Cayenne. Mix the flour very 
smoothly with four tablespoonfuls of the milk, and when this 
is well-mixed, add the remainder. Cut up the rabbits into 
joiDts, put them into a stewpan with the milk and other in- 
gredients, and simmer them very gently until quite tender. 
Stir the contents from time to time, to keep the milk 
smooth and prevent it from burning. Iialf an hour will b^ 
sufficient for the cooking of this dish. 

SLIPPERY-ELM BARK TEA. 

Break the bark into bits, pour boiling water over it, cover 
and let it infuse until cold. Sweeten, ice, and take for sum- 
mer disorders, or add lemon-juice and drink for a bad cold. 

BEEF TEA. 

One pottnd of lean beef, cut into small pieces. Put into 
a jar without a drop of water; cover tightly, and set in a 
pot of cold water. Heat gradually to a boil, and continue 
this steadily for three or four hours, until the meat is like 
white rags, and the juice all drawn out. Season with salt 
to taste, and, when cold, skim, 

EGG WINE. 

One egg, one tablespoonful and one-half glass of cold 
water, one glass of sherry, sugar and grated nutmeg to 
taste. Beat the egg, mixing with it a tablespoonful of 
cold water; make the wine and water hot, but not boiling; 
pour it on the egg, stirring all the time. Add sufficient 
lump sugar to sweeten the mixture, and a little grated nut- 
meg; put all into a very clean saucepan, set it on a gentla 



244 THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 

fire, and stir the contents one way until they thicken, but 
do not allow them to boil. Serve in a glass with snippets of 
toasted bread or plain crisp biscuits. When the egg is not 
warmed, the mixture will be found easier of digestion, but 
it is not so pleasant a drink. 

TOAST WATER. 

Slices of toast, nicely browned, without a symptom of 
burning. Enough boiling water to cover them. Cover 
closely and let them steep until cold. Strain the water, 
sweeten to taste, and put a piece of ice in each glassful. 

ONION GRUEL 

Is excellent for cold. Slice down a few onions and boil 
them in a pint of new milk, stir in a sprinkle of oatmeal and 
a very little salt, boil till the onions are quite tender, then 
sup rapidly and go to bed. 



THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 245 



COSMETIQUES. 



COMPLEXION WASH. 

Put in a vial one drachm of benzoin gum in powder, one 
drachm nutmeg oil, six drops of orange-blossom tea, or 
apple-blossoms put in half pint of rain-water and boiled 
down to one teaspoonful and strained, one pint of sherry 
wine. Bathe the face morning and night; will remove 
all flesh worms and freckles, and give a beautiful com- 
plexion. Or, put one ounce of powdered gum of benzoin in 
pint of whiskey; to use, put in water in wash-bowl till it is 
milky, allowing it to dry without wiping. This is perfectly 
harmless. 

TO CLEAR A TANNED SKIN. 

Wash with a solution of carbonate of soda and a little 
lemon-juice; then with Fuller's earth-water, or the juice of 
unripe grapes. 

OIL TO MAKE THE HAIR CURL. 

Olive oil, one pound; oil of organum, one drachm; oil 
rosemary, one and one-half drachms. 

WRINKLES IN THE SKIN. 

White wax, one ounce; strained honey, two ounces; juice 
of lily-bulbs, two ounces. The foregoing melted and stirred 
together will remove wrinkles. 



246 THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 



PEARL WATER FOR THE FACE. 

Put half a pound best Windsor soap scraped fine into 
half a gallon of boiling water; stir it well until it cools, add 
a pint of spirits of wine and half an ounce of oil of rose- 
mary ; stir well. This is a good cosmetique, and will remove 
freckles. 

PEARL DENTIFRICE. 

Prepare chalk, one-half pound; powdered myrrh, two 
ounces; camphor, two drachms; orris-root powdered, two 
ounces. Moisten the camphor with alcohol and mix all 
well together. 

WASH FOR A BLOTCHED FACE. 

Rose water, three ounces; sulphate of zinc, one 
drachm; mix. Wet the face with it, gently dry it and 
then touch it over with cold cream, which also gently dry 
oft 

FACE POWDER. 

Take of wheat starch, one pound; powdered orris-root, 
three ounces; oil of lemon, thirty drops; oil of bergamot, 
oil of cloves, each fifteen drops. Rub thoroughly together. 



BANDOLINE. 

To one quart of rose-water add an ounce and a half of 
gum tragacanth; let it stand forty-eight hours, frequently 
straining it, then strain through a coarse linen cloth ; let it 
stand two days, and again strain; add to it a drachm of 
oil of roses; used by ladies dressing their hair, to make it 
iia in any position, 



THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 247 

A GOOD WASH FOR THE HAIR. 

One pennyworth of borax, half a pint of olive-oil, one 
pint of boiling water. 

Mode : Pour the boiling water over the borax and oil; let 
it cool; then put the mixture into a bottle. Shake it before 
using, and apply it with a flannel. Camphor and boras, 
dissolved in boiling water and left to cool, make a very good 
wash for the hair; as also does rosemary water mixed with 
a little borax. After using any of these washes, when the 
hair becomes thoroughly dry, 1 little pomatum or oil 
should bo rubbed in, to make it smooth and glossy. 



EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 



MISCELLANEOUS. 



AN EXCELLENT HARD SOAP. 

Pour twelve quarts soft boiling water on two and one- 
half pounds of unslacked lime; dissolve five pounds sal 
soda in twelve quarts soft hot water; then mix and let them 
remain from twelve to twenty-four hours. Pour off all the 
clear fluid, being careful not to allow any of the sediment 
to run off; boil three and one-half pounds clean grease and 
three or four ounces of rosin in the above lye till the grease 
disappears; pour into a box and let it stand a day to stiffen 
and then cut in bars. It is as well to put the lime in all 
the water and then add the soda. After pouring off the 
fluid, add two or three gallons of water and let it stand 
with the lime and soda dregs a day or two. This makes an 
excellent washing fluid to boil or soak the clothes in, with 
one pint in a boiler of water. 

TO WASH WOOLEN BLANKETS. 

Dissolve soap enough to make a good suds in boiling 
water, add a tablespoon of aqua ammonia; when scalding 
hot, turn over your blankets. If convenient, use a pounder, 
or any way to work thoroughly through the suds without 
rubbing on a board. Rinse well in hot water. There is 
usually soap enough from the first suds to make the second 
soft; if not, add a little soap and ammonia; and after being 
put through the wringer let two persons, standing opposite, 



THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 249 

pull them into shape; dry in the sun. White flannels may 
be washed in the same way without shrinking. Calicoes 
and other colored fabrics can, before washing, be advan- 
tageously soaked for a time in a pail of water to which a 
spoonful of ox gall has been added. It helps to keep the 
color. A teacup of lye to a pail of water will improve the 
color of black goods when necessary to wash them, and 
vinegar ivs the rinsing water of pink or green will brighten 
thos* colors, as will soda for purple and blue. 

FOR CLOTHES THAT FADE. 

One ounce sugar of lead in a pail of rain water. Soak 
over night. 

LAMP-WICKS. 

To insure a good light, wicks must be changed often, as 
they soon become clogged, and do not permit the free pass- 
age of the oil. Soaking wicks in vinegar twenty-four hours 
before placing in lamp insures a clear flame. 

TO MAKE OLD CRAPE LOOK NEARLY 
EQUAL TO NEW. 

Place a little water in a teakettle, and let it boil until 
there is plenty of steam from the spout; then holding the 
crape in both hands, pass it to and fro several times 
through the steam, and it will be clean and nearly equal to 
new. 

A CEMENT FOR STOVES. 

If the stove is cracked, a good cement is made for it as 
follows: "Wood ashes and salt in equal proportions, reduced 
to a paste with cold water, and filled in the cracks when the 
itove is cool. It will soon harden. 



250 THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 



TO CLEAN KID GLOVES. 

Rub with very slightly damp bread-crumbs. If not 
effectual, scrape upon them dry Fuller's earth or French 
chalk, when on the hands, and rub them quickly together in 
all directions. Do this several times. Or put gloves of a 
light color on the hands and wash the hands in a basin of 
spirits of hartshorn. Some gloves may be washed in a 
strong lather made of soft soap and warm water or milk; 
or wash with rice pulp; or sponge them well with turpen- 
tine, and hang them in a warm place or where there is a 
current of air, and all smell of turpentine will be removed. 



STAINS AND SPOTS. 

Children's clothes, table linens, towels, etc., should be 
thoroughly examined before wetting, as soap-suds, washing- 
fluids, etc., will fix almost any stain past removal. Many 
stains will pass away by being simply washed in pure soft 
water; or alcohol will remove, before the articles have been 
in soap-suds, many stains. Ironmold, mildew, or almost 
any similar spot, can be taken out by dipping in diluted 
citric acid; then cover with salt, and lay in the bright sun 
until the stain disappears. If of long standing, it may ba 
necessary to repeat the wetting and the sunlight. Be care- 
ful to rinse in several waters as soon as the stain is no longer 
visible. Ink, fruit, wine, and mildew stains must first ba 
washed in clear, cold water, removing as much of the spots 
as can be; then mix one teaspoonful of oxalic acid and half 
a pint of rain water. Dip the stain in this, and wipe off in 
clear water. Wash at once, if a fabric that will bear wash- 
ing. A tablespoonful of white-currant juice, if any can bo 
had, is even better than lemon. This preparation may be 
used on the most delicate articles without injury. Shako it 



THE EVER YDA Y COOK-BOOK. 251 

trp before using it, and be careful and put out of the reach 
of meddlers or little folks, as it is poisonous. 

TO REMOVE GREASE SPOTS. 

An excellent mixture to remove grease spots from boys r 
and men's clothing particularly, is made of four parts alco- 
hol to one part of ammonia and about half as much ether 
as ammonia. Apply the liquid to the grease spot, and then 
rub diligently with a sponge and clear water. The chem- 
istry of the operation seems to be that the alcohol and ether 
dissolve the grease, and the ammonia forms a soap with it 
which is washed out with the water. The result is much 
more satisfactory than when something is used which only 
seems to spread the spot and make it fainter, but does not 
actually remove it. If oil is spilt on the carpet, and you 
immediately scatter corn meal over it, the oil will be ab- 
sorbed by it. Oil may also be removed from carpets on 
which you do not dare to put ether and ammonia, by laying 
thick blotting paper over it and pressing a hot flat-iron on 
it. Repeat the operation several times, using a clean paper 
each time. 

STAINS ON MARBLE. 

Iron-rust stains on marble can usually be removed by 
rubbing with lemon-juice. Almost all other stains may be 
taken off by mixing one ounce of finely-powdered chalk, one 
of pumice stone, and two ounces of common soda. Sift 
these together through a fine sieve, and mix with water. 
"When thoroughly mixed, rub this mixture over the stains 
faithfully and the stains will disappear. Wash the marble 
after this with soap and water, dry and polish with a cham- 
ois skin, and the marble will look like new. 



A thin coating of three parts lard melted with one part 
rosin applied to stoves and grates will prevent their rusting 
in summer. 



252 THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 



PAINT OR VARNISH. 

Oil of turpentine or benzine will remove spots of paint, 
varnish, or pitch from white or colored cotton or woolen 
goods. After using it they should be washed in soap-suds. 

TO REMOVE INK FROM CARPETS. 

When freshly spilled, ink can be removed from carpets 
by wetting in milk. Take cotton batting and soak up all 
of the ink it will receive, being careful not to let it spread. 
Then take fresh cotton, wet in milk, and sop it up carefully. 
Repeat this operation, changing cotton and milk each time. 
After most of the ink has been taken up in this way, with 
fresh cotton and clean, rub the spot. Continue till all dis- 
appears, then wash the spot in clean warm water and a lit- 
tle soap; rinse in clean water, and rub till nearly dry. If 
the ink is dried in, we know of no way that will not take 
the color from the carpet as well as the ink, unless the ink 
is on a white spot. In that case salts of lemon, or soft- 
Boap, starch, and lemon-juice will remove the ink as easily 
as if on cotton. 

TO REMOVE INK FROM PAPER. 

Put one pound of cloride of lime to four quarts of water. 
Shake well together and let it stand twenty-four hours; 
then strain through a clean cotton cloth. Add one tea- 
spoonful of acetic acid to one ounce of this prepared lime 
water, and apply to the blot, and the ink will disappear. 
Absorb the moisture with blotting paper. The remainder 
may be bottled, closely corked, and set aside for future use. 



An occasional feed of hard-boiled eggs made fine and 
mixed with cracker-crumbs is good for canary birds. Feed 
a couple of thimblef uls at a time. 



13E EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 253 

INK ON ROSEWOOD OR MAHOGANY. 

If ink has been unfortunately spilled on mahogany, rose- 
wood, or black walnut furniture, put half a dozen drops of 
spirits of nitre into a spoonful of water, and touch the stain 
with a feather wet in this; as soon as the ink disappears, rub 
the place immediately with a cloth ready wet in cold water, 
or the nitre will leave a white spot very difficult to remove, 
If after washing off the nitre the ink spot still lingers, make 
the mixture a little stronger and use the second time, and 
never forget to wash it off at once. 

COAL FIRE. 

If your coal fire is low, throw on a tablespoon of salt, and 
it will help it very much. 

POLISH FOR BRIGHT STOVES AND STEEL 
ARTICLES. 

One tablespoonful of turpentine; one tablespoonful of 
sweet oil; emery powder. Mix the turpentine and sweet 
oil together, stirring in sufficient emery powder to make the 
mixture of the thickness of cream. Put it on the article 
with a piece of soft flannel, rub off quickly with another 
piece, then polish with a little emery powder and clean 
leather. 

TO PREVENT PUMPS FROM FREEZING. 

Take out the lower valve in the fall, and drive a tack 
under it, projecting in such a way that it cannot quite close. 
The water will then leak back into the well or cistern, 
while the working qualities of the pump will not be dam- 
aged. 



To keep starch from sticking to irons rub the irons with 
a little piece of wax or sperm. 



254 THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOg. 



TO KEEP OFF MOSQUITOES. 

Bub exposed parts with kerosene. The odor is not 
noticed after a few minutes, and children especially are 
much relieved by its use. 

TO BRIGHTEN GILT FRAMES. 

Take sufficient flour of sulphur to give a golden tinge to 
about one and one-half pints of water, and in this boil four 
or five bruised onions or garlic, which will answer the same 
purpose. Strain off the liquid, and with it, when cold, 
wash, with a soft brush, any gilding which requires restor- 
ing, and when dry it will come out as bright as new work. 



TO MAKE HENS LAY IN WINTER. 

Keep them warm; keep corn constantly by them, but do 
not feed it to them. Feed them with meat scraps when lard 
or tallow has been tried, or fresh meat. Some chop green 
peppers finely, or mix Cayenne pepper with corn meal to 
feed them. Let them have a frequent taste of green food, a 
little gravel and lime, or clam-shells. 

TO PRESERVE STEEL PENS. 

Steel pens are destroyed by corrosion from acid in the 
ink. Put in the ink some nails or old steel pens, and the 
acid will exhaust itself on them, and the pens in use will 
not corrode. 

MICE. 

Pumpkin seeds are very attractive to mice, and traps 
baited with them will soon destroy this little pest. 



THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 255 

CAMPHOR 

Placed in trunks or drawers will prevent mice from doing 
them injury. 

TO CLEAN COMBS. 

If it can be avoided, never wash combs, as the water often 
makes the teeth split, and the tortoiseshell or horn of which 
they are made, rough. Small brushes, manufactured pur- 
posely for cleaning combs, may be purchased at a trifling 
cost; with this the comb should be well brushed, and after- 
wards wiped with a cloth or towel. 

FOR CLEANING INK-SPOTS. 

Ink-spots on the fingers may be instantly removed by 
ft little ammonia. Rinse the hands after washing in 
clear water. A little ammonia in a few spoonfuls of alcohol 
is excellent to sponge silk dresses that have grown " shiny " 
or rusty, as well as to take out spots. A silk, particularly 
a black, becomes almost like new when so sponged. 

FOR CLEANING JEWELRY. 

For cleaning jewelry there is nothing better than ammo- 
nia and water. If very dull or dirty, rub a little soap on a 
soft brush and brush them in this wash, rinse in cold water, 
dry first in an old handkerchief, and then rub with buck or 
chamois skin. Their freshness and brilliancy when thus 
cleaned cannot be surpassed by any compound used by 
jewelers. 

FOR WASHING SILVER AND SILVERWARE 

For washing silver, put half a teaspoonful ammonia into 
the suds; have the water hot; wash quickly, using a small 
brush, rinse in hot water, and dry with a clean linen towel; 



256 THJJ EVERYDAY COOK-BOOR. 

then rub very dry with a chamois skin. Washed in this 
manner, silver becomes very brilliant, requires no polishing 
with any of the powders or whiting usually employed, and 
does not wear out. Silver-plate, jewelry and door-plates 
-jan bo beautifully cleaned and made to look like new by 
dropping a soft cloth or chamois skin into a weak prepara- 
tion of ammonia-water, and rubbing the articles with it. 
Put half a teaspoonful into clear water to wash tumblers or 
glass of any kind, rinse and dry well, and they will be beau- 
tifully clear. 

FOR WASHING GLASS AND GLASSWARE. 

For washing windows, looking-glasses, etc., a little am- 
monia in the water saves much labor, aside from giving a 
better polish than anything else; and for general house- 
cleaning it removes dirt, smoke and grease most effect- 
ually, 

INSECTS AND VERMIN. 

Dissolve two pounds of alum in three or four quarts of 
water. Let it remain over night, till all the alum is dis- 
solved. Then, with a brush, apply* boiling hot, to every 
joint or crevice in the closet or shelves where Groton bugs, 
ants, cockroaches, etc., intrude; also to the joints and crev- 
ices of bedsteads, as bed bugs dislike it as much as Croton 
bugs, roaches or ants. Brush all the cracks in the floor 
and mop-boards. Keep it boiling hot while using. 

To keep woolens and furs from moths, two things are to 
be observed — first, to see that none are in the articles when 
they are put away, and second, to put them where the 
parent moth cannot enter. Tin cases, soldered tight, 
whiskey barrels headed so that not even a liquid can 
get in or out, have been used to keep out moths. A 
piece of strong brown paper with not a hole through 



THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 257 

which even a large pin can enter, is just as good. Put the 
articles in a close box and cover every joint with paper, or 
resort to whatever will be a complete covering. A wrapper 
of common cotton cloth, so put around and secured, is 
often used. Wherever a knitting needle will pass the par- 
ent moth can enter. Carefully exclude the insect and the 
articles will be safe. 

MOTHS IN CARPETS. 

Persons troubled with carpet moths may get rid of them 
by scrubbing the floor with strong hot salt and water before 
laying the carpet, and sprinkling the carpet with salt once a 
week before sweeping. 

SMOOTH SAD-IRONS. 

To have your sad-irons clean and smooth rub them first 
with a piece of wax tied in a cloth, and afterwards scour 
them on a paper or thick cloth strewn with coarse salt 



TO SWEETEN MEAT. 

A little charcoal thrown into the pot will sweeten «neat 
that is a little old. Not if it is anyway tainted — it is then 
not fit to eat — but only if kept a little longer than makes 
it quite fresh. 

STOVE POLISH. 

Stove lustre, when mixed with turpentine and applied in 
the usual manner, is blacker, more glossy and more durable 
than when mixed with any other liquid. The turpentine 
prevents rust, and when put on an old rusty stove will make, 
it look as well as new. 



258 THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 

CLEANING WHITE PAINT. 

Spirits of ammonia, used in sufficient quantity to soften 
the water, and ordinary hard soap, will make the paint look 
white and clean with half the effort of any other method I 
ever have tried. Care should be taken not to have too much 
ammonia, or the paint will be injured. 

TO CLEANSE THE INSIDE OF JARS. 

This can be done in a few minutes by filling the jars with 
hot water (it need not bo scalding hot), and then stirring in 
a teaspoonful or more of baking soda. Shake well, then 
empty the jar at once, and if any of the former odor re- 
mains about it, fill again with water and soda; shake well, 
and rinse out in cold water. 

FURNITURE POLISH. 

Equal proportions of linseed oil, turpentine, vinegar, and 
spirits of wine. 

Mode : When used, shake the mixture well, and rub on 
the furniture with a piece of linen rag, and polish with a clean 
duster. Vinegar and oil, rubbed in with flannel, and the 
furniture rubbed with a clean duster, produce a very good 
polish. 

Squeaking doors ought to have the hinges oiled by a 
feather dipped in some linseed oil. 



A soft cloth, wetted in alcohol, is excellent to wipe off 
French plate-glass and mirrors. 



A red-hot iron will soften old putty so that it can be 
easily removed. 



THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK, 259 



TO REMOVE STAINS FROM MATTRESSES. 

Make a thick paste by wetting starch with cold water. 
Spread this on the stain, first putting the mattress in the 
sun; rub this off after an hour or so, and if the ticking is 
not clean try the process again. 

KALSOMINING. 

For plain white use one pound white glue, twenty pounds 
English whiting; dissolve glue by boiling in about three 
pints of water; dissolve whiting with hot water; make the 
consistency of thick batter; then add glue and one cup soft 
soap. Dissolve a piece of alum the size of a hen's egg, add 
and mix the whole thoroughly. Let it cool before using. 
If too thick to spread nicely add more water till it spreads 
easily. For blue tints add five cents' worth of Prussian blue, 
and a little Venetian red for lavender. For peach-blow use 
red in white alone. The above quantity is enough to cover 
four ceilings, sixteen feet square, with two coats, and will 
not rub off as the whitewash does made of lime. 

PAPERING WHITEWASHED WALLS. 

There are many ways, but we mention those that 
are the most reliable. Take a perfectly clean broom, 
and wet the walls all over with clean water; then 
with a small sharp hoe or scraper scrape off all the 
old whitewash you can. Then cut your paper of the 
right length, and, when you are all ready to put on 
the paper, wet the wall with strong vinegar. Another 
way is to make very thin paste by dissolving one pound of 
white glue in five quarts of warm water, and wash the walla 
with it before putting on the paper. A very good way is to ap- 
ply the paste to both paper and wall. The paste may be made 
from either wheat or rye flour, but must be put on waj-m, 



260 THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 



HOW TO CLEAN CORSETS. 

Take out the steels at front and sides, then scrub thor- 
oughly with tepid or cold lather of white castile soap, using 
a very small scrubbing brush. Do not lay them in water. 
When quite clean let cold water run on them freely from 
the spigot to rinse out the soap thoroughly. Dry without 
ironing (after pulling lengthwise until they are straight and 
shapely) in a cool place. 

TO CLEAN HAIRBRUSHES. 

Do not use soap, but put a tablespoon of hartshorn into 
the water, having it only tepid, and dip up and down until 
clean; then dry with the brushes down, and they will be 
like new ones. If you do not have ammonia, use soda; a 
teaspoonful dissolved in the water will do very welL 

HOW TO WASH FLANNELS. 

There are many conflicting theories in regard to the 
proper way to wash flannels, but I am convinced, from care- 
ful observation, that the true way is to wash them in water 
in which you can comfortably bear your hand. Make suds 
before putting the flannels in, and do not rub soap on the 
flannel. I make it a rule to have only one piece of flannel 
put in the tub at a time. Wash in two suds if much soiled, 
then rinse thoroughly in clean, weak suds, wring, and hang 
up; but do not take flannels out of warm water and hang 
out in a freezing air, as that certainly tends to shrink 
them. It is better to dry them in the house, unless the sun 
shines. In washing worsted goods, such as men's panta- 
loons, pursue the same course, only do not wring them, but 
hang them up and let them drain; while a little damp bring 
iu and press smoothly with as hot an iron as you can use 



THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 261 

without scorching the goods. The reason for not wringing 
them is to prevent wrinkles. 



CLEANING LACE. 

Cream-colored Spanish lace can be cleaned and made to 
look like new by rubbing it in dry flour; rub as if you were 
washing in water. Then take it outdoors and shake all the 
flour out; if not perfectly clean, repeat the rubbing in a 
little more clean flour. The flour must be very thoroughly 
shaken from the lace, or the result will be far from satis- 
factory. White knitted hoods can be cleaned in this way; 
babies' socks also, if only slightly soiled. 



NEW KETTLES. 

The best way to prepare a new iron kettle for use is to 
fill it with clean potato peelings, boil them for an hour or 
more, then wash the kettle with hot water; wipe it dry, and 
rub it with a little lard; repeat the rubbing for half a 
dozen times after using. In this way you will prevent rust 
and all the annoyances liable to occur in the use of a new 
kettle. 

TO KEEP FLIES OFF GILT FRAMES. 

Boil three or four onions in a pint of water and apply 
with a soft brush. 

TO PREVENT KNIVES FROM RUSTING. 

In laying aside knives, or other steel implements, they 
should be slightly oiled and wrapped in tissue paper to pre- 
vent their rusting. A salty atmosphere will in a short time 
quite ruin all steel articles, unless some such precaution is 
taken. 



262 THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 



CEMENT FOR GLASSWARE. 

For mending valuable glass objects, -which would be dis- 
figured by common cement, chrome cement may be used. 
This is a mixture of five parts of gelatine to one of a solu- 
tion of acid chromate of lime. The broken edges are cov- 
ered with this, pressed together and exposed to sunlight, 
the effect of the latter being to render the compound in- 
soluble even in boiling water. 

WATERPROOF PAPER. 

Excellent paper for packing may be made of old news- 
papers; the tougher the paper of course the better. A 
mixture is made of copal varnish, boiled linseed oil and tur- 
pentine, in equal parts. It is painted on the paper with a 
flat varnish brush an inch and a half wide, and the sheets 
are laid out to dry for a few minutes. This paper has been 
very successfully used for packing plants for sending long 
distances, and is probably equal to the paper commonly 
used by nurserymen. 

RECIPE FOR VIOLET INK. 

To make one gallon, take one ounce of violet analine; 
dissolve it in one gill of hot alcohol. Stir it a few moments. 
When thoroughly dissolved add one gallon of boiling water, 
and the ink is made. As the analine colors vary a great 
deal in quality, the amount of dilution must vary with the 
sample used and the shade determined by triaL 

PERSPIRATION. 

The unpleasant odor produced by perspiration is fre- 
quently the source of vexation to persons who are sub- 
ject to it. Nothing is simpler than to remove this odor 



TBE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 263 

much more effectually than by the application of such 
costly unguents and perfumes as are in use. It is only 
necessary to procure some of the compound spirits of 
ammonia, and place about two tablespoonfuls in a basin 
of water. Washing the face, hands, and arms with this 
leaves the skin as clean, sweet and fresh as one could 
wish. The wash is perfectly harmless and very cheap. 
It is recommended on the authority of an experienced 
physician. 

RENEWING OLD KID GLOVES. 

Make a thick mucilage by boiling a handful of flax-seed; 
add a little dissolved toilet soap; then, when the mixture 
cools, put the glove on the hands and rub them with a piece 
of white flannel wet with the mixture. Do not wet the 
gloves through. 

COLOGNE WATER. 

Take a pint of alcohol and put in thirty drops of oil of 
lemon, thirty of bergamot, and half a gill of water. If musk 
or lavender is desired, add the same quantity of each. The 
oils should be put in the alcohol and shaken well before the 
water is added. Bottle it for use. 

TO CLEANSE A SPONGE. 

By rubbing a fresh lemon thoroughly into a soured sponge 
and rinsing it several times in lukewarm water, it will be- 
come as sweet as when new. 

ICY WINDOWS. 

Windows may be kept free from ice and polished by rub- 
bing the glass with a sponge dipped in alcohol. 



To remove blood stains from cloth, saturate with kerosene, 
and after standing a little, wash in warm water. 



264 THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK, 



CAMPHOR ICE. 

One ounce of lard, one ounce of spermaceti, one ounce of 
camphor, one ounce of almond oil, one-half cake of white 
wax; melt and turn into molds. 

STARCH POLISH. 

Take one ounce of spermaceti and one ounce of white 
wax, melt and run it into a thin cake on a plate. A piece 
the size of a quarter dollar added to a quart of prepared 
starch gives a beautiful lustre to the clothes and prevents 
the iron from sticking. 

TO CLEAN FEATHERS. 

Cover the feathers with a paste made of pipe-clay and 
water, rubbing them one way only. When quite dry, shake 
off all the powder and curl with a knife. Grebe feathers 
may be washed with white soap in soft water. 

TO TEST NUTMEGS. 

To test nutmegs prick them with a pin, and if they are 
good the oil will instantly spread around the puncture. 

TO CLEAN MICA. 

Mica in stoves, when smoked, is readily cleaned by taking 
it out and thoroughly washing with vinegar a little diluted. 
If the black does not come off at once, let it soak a 
little. 

TO SOFTEN HARD WATER. 

Add half a pound of the best quick lime, dissolved in 
water'to every hundred gallons. Smaller proportions may, 
be more conveniantly managed, and if allowed to stand a 



THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 2G5 

short time the lime will have united with the carbonate of 
lime and been deposited at the bottom of the receptacle. 
Another way is to put gallon of lye into a barrelful of 
water. 

TO DESTROY VERMIN IN THE HAIR. 

Powdered cevadilla one ocmce, powdered staves-acre one 
ounce, powdered panby seed one ounce, powdered tobacco 
one ounce. Mix well and rub among the roots of the hair 
thoroughly. 

TO REMOVE BRUISES FROM FURNITURE. 

Wet the bruised spot with warm water. Soak a piece of 
brown paper of several thicknesses in warm water, and lay 
over the place. Then apply a warm flat-iron until the 
moisture is gone. Repeat the process if needful, and the 
bruise will disappear. 

PEARL SMELLING SALTS. 

Powdered carbonate of ammonia, one ounce; strong solu- 
tion of ammonia, half a fluid ounce; oil of rosemary, ten 
drops; oil of bergamot, ten drops. Mix, and while moist 
put in a wide mouthed bottle which is to be well closed. 

POUNDED GLASS. 

Pounded glass, mixed with dry corn-meal, and placed 
within the reach of rats, it is said, will banish them from 
the premises; or sprinkle Cayenne, pepper in their holes. 

POLISH FOR BOOTS. 

Take of ivory-black and treacle each four ounces; sul- 
phuric acid, one ounce; best olive oil, two spoonfuls, best 
white-wine vinegar, three half pints; mix the ivory-black 



266 THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 

and treacle well in an earthen jar; then aid the sulphurio 
acid, continuing to stir the mixture; next pour in the oil, 
and, lastly, add the vinegar, stirring it in by degrees until ' 
thoroughly incorporated. 

TO CLEAN PLATE. 

"Wash the plate well to remove all grease, in a strong 
lather of common yellow soap and boiling water, and wipe 
it quite dry; then mix as much hartshorn powder as wilt 
be required, into a thick paste, with cold water or spirits of 
wine; smear this lightly over the plate with a piece of soft 
rag, and leave it for some little time to dry. When per- 
fectly dry, brush it off quite clean with a soft plate-brush, 
and polish the plate with a dry leather. If the plate be very 
dirty, or much tarnished, spirits of vane will be found to 
answer better than water for mixing the paste. 



TO CLEAN DECANTERS. 

Roll up in small pieces some soft brown or blotting 
paper; wet them, and soap them well. Put them into the 
decanters about one-quarter full of warm water; shake 
them well for a few moments, then rinse with clear cold water; 
wipe the outsides with a nice dry cloth, put the decanters 
to drain, and when dry they will be almost as bright as new 
ones, 

SPOTS ON TOWELS AND HOSIERY. 

Spots on towels and hosiery will disappear with little 
trouble if a little ammonia is put into enough water to soak 
the articles, and they are left in it an hour or two before 
washing; and if a cupful is put into the water .in which 
white clothes are soaked the night before washing, the ease 
with which the articles can be washed, and their great 



THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 267 

whiteness and clearness when dried will be very gratifying. 
Remembering the small sum paid for three quarts of am- 
monia of common strength, one can easily see that no 
bleaching preparation can be more cheaply obtained. 

No articles in kitchen use are so likely to be neglected 
and abused as the dish-cloths and dish-towels; and in 
washing these, ammonia, if properly used, is a greater com- 
fort than anywhere else. Put a teaspoonful into the 
water in which these cloths are, or should be washed every 
day; rub soap on the towels. Put them in the water; let 
them stand a half hour or so, then rub them out thoroughly, 
rinse faithfully, and dry out-doors in clear air and sun, and 
dish-cloths and towels need never look gray and dingy — a 
perpetual discomfort to all housekeepers. 



CROUP. 

Croup, it is said, can be cured in one minute, and the 
remedy is simply alum and sugar. The way to accom- 
plish the deed is to take a knife or grater, and shave off in 
small particles about a teaspoonful of alum; then mix it 
with twice its amount of sugar, to make it palatable, and 
administer it as quickly as possible. Almost instantaneous 
relief will follow. 



In the summer season it is not an nncommon thing for 
persons going into the woods to be poisoned by contact with 
dogwood, ivy, or the poisoned oak. The severe itching and 
smarting which is thus produced may be relieved by first 
washing the parts with a solution of saleratus, two tea- 
spoonfuls to the pint of water, and then applying cloths 
wet with extract of hamammellis. Take a dose of Epsom 
salts internally or a double Rochelle powder. 



268 THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 



CONVULSION FITS. 

Convulsion fits sometimes follow [the feverish restless- 
ness produced by these causes; in which case s, hot bath 
should be administered without delay, and the lower parts 
of the body rubbed, the bath being as hot as it can be with- 
out scalding the tender skin. 

BURNS AND SCALDS. 

A burn or scald is always painful; but the pain can be in- 
stantly relieved by the use of bi-carbonato of soda, or com- 
mon baking soda (saleratus). Put two tablespoonfuls of 
soda in a half cup of water. Wet a piece of linen cloth in 
the solution and lay it on the burn. The pain will disap- 
pear as if by magic. If the burn is so deep that the skin 
has peeled of£ dredge the dry soda directly on the part af- 
fected. 

CUTS. 

For a slight cut there is nothing better to control the 
hemorrhage than common unglazed brown wrapping paper, 
such as is used by marketmen and grocers; a piece to be 
bound over the wound. 

COLD ON THE CHEST. 

A flannel dipped in boiling water, and sprinkled with tur- 
pentine, laid on the chest as quickly as possible, will re- 
lieve the most severe cold or hoarseness* 

BLEEDING FROM THE NOSE. 

Many children, especially those of a sanguineous 
temperament, are subject to sudden discharges of blood 
from some part of the body; and as all such fluxes are 
in general the result of an effort of nature to relieve the 



THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 269 

system from some overload or pressure, such discharges, 
unless in excess, and when likely to produce debility, should 
not be rashly or too abruptly checked. In general, these 
discharges are confined to the summer or spring months of 
the year, and follow pains in the head, a sense of drowsi- 
ness, languor or oppression, and as such symptoms are re- 
lieved by the loss of blood, the hemorrhage should, to a 
certain extent, be encouraged. When, however, the bleed- 
ing is excessive, or returns too frequently, it becomes neces- 
sary to apply means to subdue or mitigate the amount. For 
this purpose the sudden and unexpected application of cold 
is itself sufficient in most cases to arrest the most active 
hemorrhage. A wet towel laid suddenly on the back, be- 
tween the shoulders, and placing the child in a recumbent 
posture is often sufficient to effect the object; where, how- 
ever, the effusion resists such simple means, napkins wrung 
out of cold water must be laid across the forehead and 
nose, the hands dipped in cold water, and a bottle of hot 
water applied to the feet. If, in spite of these means, the 
bleeding continues, a little fine wool or a few folds of lint, 
tied together by a piece of thread, must be pushed up the 
nostril from which the blood flows; to act as a plug and 
pressure on the bleeding vessel. When the discharge has 
entirely ceased, the plug is to be pulled out by means of 
the thread. To prevent a repetition of the hemorrhage, the 
body should be sponged every morning with cold water, 
and the child put under a course of steel wine, have open- 
air exercise, and, if possible, salt water bathing. For chil- 
dren, a key suddenly dropped down the back between the 
skin and clothes, will often immediately arrest a copious 
bleeding. 

CHILBLAINS. 

Chilblains are most irritating to children. Th9 following 
is an infallible cure for unbroken chilblains: Hydrochloric 



270 THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 

acid, diluted, one-quarter ounce; hydrocyanic acid, diluted, 
30 drops; camphor -water, six ounces. This chilblain lotion 
cares mild cases by one application. It is a deadly poison, 
and should be kept under lock and key. A responsible 
person should apply it to the feet of children. This must 
not bo applied to broken chilblains. 



TO CURE A STING OF BEE OR WASP. 

Mis common earth with water to about the consistency 
of mud. Apply at once. 

FOR TOOTHACHE. 

Alum reduced to an impalpable powder, two drachms; 
nitrous spirit of ether, seven drachms; mix and apply to 
the tooth. 

CHOKING. 

A piece of food lodged in the throat may sometimes be 
pushed down with the finger, or removed with a hairpin 
quickly straightened and hooked at the end, or by two or 
three vigorous blows on the back between the shoulders. 



A very excellent carminative powder for flatulant infants 
may be kept in the he use, and employed with advantage, 
whenever the child is in pain or griped, by dropping five 
grains of oil of aniseed and two of peppermint on half an 
ounce of lump sugar, and rubbing it in a mortar, with a 
drachm of magnesia, into a fine powder. A small quantity 
of this may be given in a little water at any time, and al- 
ways with benefit. 



TBE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOR. -271 



CUBEB BERRIES FOR CATARRH. 

A new remedy for catarrh is crushed cubeb berries 
Bmoked in a pipe, emitting the smoke through the nose; 
after a few trials this will be easy to do. If the nose is 
stopped up so that it is almost impossible to breath, one 
pipeful will make the head as clear as a bell. For sore 
throat, asthma, and bronchitis, swallowing the smoke effects 
immediate relief. It is the best remedy in the world for 
offensive breath, and will make the most foul breath pure 
and sweet. Sufferers from that horrid disease, ulcerated 
catarrh, will find this remedy unequaled, and a month's use 
will cure the most obstinate case. A single trial will con- 
vince anyone. Eating the uncrushed berries is also good 
for sore throat and all bronchial complaints. After smok- 
ing, do not expose yourself to cold air for at *least fifteen 
minutes. 

DIARRHOEA. 

For any form, of diarrhoea that, by excessive action, de- 
mands a speedy correction, the most efficacious remedy 
that can be employed in all ages and conditiocs of child- 
hood is the tincture of kino, of which from ten to thirty 
drops, mixed with a little sugar and water in a spoon, are 
to be given every two or three hours till the undue action 
has been checked. Often the change of diet to rice, milk, 
eggs, or the substitution of animal for vegetable food vice 
versa, will correct an unpleasant and almost chronic state of 
diarrhoea. 



If it is not convenient to fill flannel bags for the sick 
room with sand, bran will answer the purpose very well, 
and will retain the heat a long time. 



272 THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 



BITES OF DOGS. 

The only safe remedy in case of a bite from a dog su9» 
pected of madness, is to burn out the wound thoroughly 
with red-hot iron, or with lunar caustic, for fully eight sec- 
onds, so as to destroy the entire surface of the wound. Do 
this as soon as possible, for no time is to be lost. Of 
course it will be expected that the parts touched with the 
caustic will turn black. 

MEASLES AND SCARLATINA. 

Measles and scarlatina much resemble each other in their 
early stages; headache, restlessness, and fretfulness are the 
symptoms of both. Shivering fits, succeeded by a hot skin; 
pains in the back and limbs, accompanied by sickness, and, 
in severe cases, sore throat; pain about the jaws, difficulty 
in swallowing, running at the eyes, which become red and 
inflamed, while the face is hot and flushed, often distinguish 
scarlatina from scarlet fever, of which it is only a mild form. 
"While the case is doubtful, a dessertspoonful of spirit of 
nitre diluted in water, given at bedtime, will throw the child 
into a gentle perspiration, and will bring out the rash in 
either case. In measles, this appears first on the face; in 
scarlatina, on the chest; and in both cases, a doctor should 
be called in. In scarlatina, tartar-emetic powder or ipeca- 
cuhana may be administered in the meantime. 

STYE IN THE EYE. 

Styes are little abscesses which form between the rocts of 
the eyelashes, and are rarely larger than a small pea. The 
bast way to manage them is to bathe them frequently with 
warm water; or in warm poppy-water, if very painful. 
When they have burst, use an ointment composed of 
one part of citron ointment and four of spermaceti, 



THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 278 

well rubbed together, and smear along the edge of 
the eyelid. Give a grain or two of calomel with five or 
eight grains of rhubarb, according to the age of the child, 
twice a week. The old-fashioned and apparently absurd 
practice of rubbing the stye with a ring, is as good and 
speedy a cure as that by any process of medicinal applica* 
tion; though the number of times it is rubbed, or the 
quality of the ring and direction of the strokes, has nothing 
to do with its success. That pressure and the friction ox- 
cite the vessels of the part, and cause an absorption of tho 
effused matter under the eyelash. The edge of the nail 
will answer as well as a ring. 

FOR CONSTIPATION. 

One or two figs eaten fastly is sufficient for some, and 
they are especially good in the case of children, as there is 
no trouble in getting them to take them. A spoon of 
wheaten bran in a glass of water is a simple remedy and 
quite effective. 

LEANNESS 

Is caused generally by lack of power in the digestive 
organs to digest and assimilate the fat-producing elements 
of food. First restore digestion, take plenty of sleep, drink 
all the water the stomach will bear in the morning on rising, 
take moderate exercise in the open air, eat oatmeal, cracked 
wheat, Graham mush, baked sweet apples, roasted and 
broiled beef, cultivate jolly people, and bathe daily. 

SUPERFLUOUS HAIRS 

Are best left alone. Shaving only increases the strength 
of the hair, and all depilatories are dangerous and some- 
times disfigure the face. The only sure plan is to spread 
on a piece of leather equal parts of garbanum and pitch 



274 THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 

plaster, lay it on the hair as smoothly as possible, let it re- 
main three or four minutes, then remove it with the hairs, 
root and branch. This is severe, but effective. Kerosene 
will also remove them. If sore after using, rub on sweet 
oiL 

THE BREATH. 

Nothing makes one so disagreeable to others as a bad 
breath. It is caused by bad teeth, diseased stomach, or dis- 
ease of the nostrils. Neatness and care of the health will 
prevent and cure it. 

THE QUININE CURE FOR DRUNKENNESS. 

Pulverize one pound of fresh quill-red Peruvian bark, 
and soak it in one pint of diluted alcohol. Strain and 
evaporate down to one-half pint. For the first and second 
days give a teaspoonful every three hours. If too much is 
taken, headache will result, and in that case the doses should 
be diminished. On the third day give one-half a teaspoon- 
ful; on the fourth reduce the dose to fifteen drops, then to 
ten, and then to five. Seven days, it is said, will cure aver- 
age cases, though some require a whole month. 

FOR SORE THROAT. 

Cut slices of salt pork or fat bacon; simmer a few mo- 
ments in hot vinegar, and apply to throat as hot as possible. 
When this is taken off, as the throat is relieved, put around 
a bandage of soft flannel. A gargle of equal parts of borax 
and alum, dissolved in water, is also excellent To be used 
frequently. 

A GOOD CURE FOR COLDS. 

Boil two ounces of flaxseed in one quart of water; 
strain and add two ounces of rock candy, one-half pint 



THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 275 

of honey, juice of three lemons; mix, and let all boil well; let 
cool, and bottle. Dose: One cupful on going to bed, one- 
half cupful before meals. The hotter you drink it the bet- 
ter. 

TO STOP BLEEDING. 

A handful of flour bound on the cut. 

A HEALTHFUL APPETIZER. 

How often we hear women who do their own cooking 
say that by the time they have prepared a meal, and it is 
ready for the table, they are too tired to eat. One way to 
mitigate this is to take, about half an hour before dinner, a 
raw egg, beat it until light, put in a little sugar and milk, 
flavor it, and "drink it down;" it will remove the faint, 
tired-out feeling, and will not spoil your appetite for din- 
ner. 

TO REMOVE DISCOLORATION FROM 
BRUISES. 

Apply a cloth wrung out in very hot water, and renew 
frequently until the pain ceases. Or apply raw beefsteak. 

EARACHE. 

There is scarcely any ache to which children are subject 
so hard to bear and difficult to cure as the earache; but 
there is a remedy never known to fail. Take a bit of cot- 
ton batting, put upon it a pinch of black pepper, gather it 
up and tie it, dip in sweet oil and insert into the ear; put 
a flannel bandage over the head to keep it warm. It will 
give immediate relief. As soon as any soreness is felt in 
the ear, let three or four drops of the tincture of arnica be 
poured in and the orifice be filled with a little cotton wool 
to exclude the air. If the arnica be not resorted to until 



276 THE EVEEYDAf COOK-BOOK. 

there is actual pain, then the cure may not be as speedy, 
but it is just as certain, although it may be necessary to re- 
peat the operation. It is a sure preventive against gather- 
ing in the ear, which is the usual cause of earache. 



TO CURE TOOTHACHE. 

The worst toothache, or neuralgia coming from the teeth, 
may be speedily and delightfully ended by the application 
of a bit of clean cotton, saturated in a solution of ammonia, 
to the defective tooth. Sometimes the late sufferer is 
prompted to momentary laughter by the application, but 
the pain will disappear. 

FOR FELON. 

Take common rock salt, as used for salting down pork or 
beef, dry in an oven, and pound it fine and mix with spirits 
of turpentine in equal parts; put it in a rag and wrap it 
around the parts affected; as it gets dry put on more, and 
in twenty-four hours you are cured. The felon will be dead. 



Coffee pounded in a mortar and roasted on an iron plate; 
sugar burned on hot coals, and vinegar boiled with myrrh 
and sprinkled on the floor and furniture of a sick room, are 
excellent deodorisers. 



The skin of a boiled egg is the most efficacious remedy that 
can be applied to a boil. Peel it carefully, wet and apply 
to the part affected. It will draw off the matter, and relieve 
the soreness in a few hours. 



THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 277 



TO CURE A WHITLOW. 

As soon as the whitflow has risen distinctly, a pretty large 
piece should be snipped out, so that the watery matter may 
readily escape, and continue to flow out as fast as produced. 
A bread and water poultice should be put on for a few 
days, when the wound should be bound up lightly with 
some mild ointment} when a cure will be speedily completed. 
Constant poulticing both before and after the opening of 
the whitlow is the only practice needed; but as the matter 
lie^ deep, when it is necessary to open the abscess, the incis- 
ion must be made deep to reach the suppuration, 

TAPE-WORMS. 

Tape-worms are said to be removed by refraining from 
supper and breakfast, and at eight o'clock taking one-third 
part of two hundred minced pumpkin seeds, the shells of 
which have been removed by hot water; at nine take an- 
other third, at ten the remainder, and follow it at eleven 
with strong dose of castor oil. 

FOR A CAKED BREAST. 

Bake large potatoes, put two or more in a woolen stock- 
ing; crush them soft and apply to the breast as hot as can 
be borne; repeat constantly till relieved. 



A good remedy for blistered feet from long walking is to 
rub the feet at going to bed with spirits mixed with tallow 
dropped from a lighted candle into the palm of the hand. 



A lady writes that sufferers from asthma should get a 
muskrat skin and wear it over their lungs, with the fur 
side next to the body. It will bring certain reliet 



278 THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 



CHAPPED HANDS. 

Powdered starch is an excellent preventive of chapping 
of the hands, when it is rubbed over them after washing 
and drying them thoroughly. It will also prevent the 
needle in sewing from sticking and becoming rusty. It is 
therefore advisable to have a small box of it in the work-box 
or basket, and near your wash-basin. 

LUNAR CAUSTIC. 

Lunar caustic, carefully applied so as not to touch the 
skin, will destroy warts. 

CURE FOR RHEUMATISM AND BILIOUS 
HEADACHE. 

Finest Turkey rhubarb, half an ounce; carbonate mag- 
nesia, one ounce; mix intimately; keep well corked in glass 
bottle. Dose: One teaspoonful, in milk and sugar, the first 
thing in the morning; repeat till cured. Tried with success. 

FEVER AND AGUE. 

Four ounces galangal-root in a quart of gin, steeped in a 
warm place; take often. 



For a oimple fainting fit a horizontal position and fresh 
air will usually suffice. If a person receive a severe shock 
caused by a fall or blow, handle carefully without jarring. 
A horizontal position is best. Loosen all tight clothing 
from the throat, chest, and waist. If the patient can swal- 
low, give half teaspoonful aromatic spirits of ammonia in a 
little water. If that cannot be procured, give whiskey or 
brandy and water. Apply warmth to the feet and bowela 



THE E VER YD A Y COOK-BOOK. 278 

TO RESTORE FROM STROKE OF LIGHT- 
NING. 

Shower with cold water for two hours; if the patient does 
not show signs of life, put salt in the water, and continue 
to shower an hour longer. 

RELIEF FOR INFLAMED FEET, 

The first thing to be done is to take off and throw away 
tight-fitting boots, which hurt the tender feet as much as if 
they were put into a press. Then take one pint of wheat 
bran and one ounce of saleratus, and put it into a foot-bath, 
and add one gallon of hot water. When it has become 
cool enough put in the feet, soak them for fifteen minutes, 
and the relief will be almost immediate. Repeat this every 
night for a week, and the cure will be complete. The burn- 
ing, prickly sensation is caused by the pores of the skin be- 
ing closed up so tightly by the pressure of the boots that 
they cannot perspire freely. 

WARM WATER. 

Warm water is preferable to cold water as a drink to per- 
sons who are subject to dyspeptic and bilious complaints, 
and it may be taken more freely than cold water, and con- 
sequently answers better as a diluent for carrying off bile, 
and removing obstructions in the urinary secretion, incases 
of stone and gravel. When water of a temperature equal 
to that of the human body is used for drink, it proves con- 
siderably stimulant, and is particularly suited to dyspetic, 
bilious, gouty, and chlorotic subjects. 

CLEANING HOUSE. 

SITTING AND DINING-ROOMS. 

By the time the upper part of the house is well cleaned 
and in good order, if it has been taken one room at a time. 



280 THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 

and leisurely, probably, the dining-room can be torn up on 
a warm and pleasant day, and, unless the alterations are to. 
be extensive, scoured and gotten to rights again before 
nightfall. And the sitting-room on another day. House- 
cleaning, unless conducted on some plan which occasions 
little if any disturbance in the general domestic arrange- 
ment, is a nuisance, particularly to the males of the house- 
hold. Nothing can be (next to a miserable dinner) more 
exasperating to a tired man, than to come home and find 
the house topsy-turvy. And it certainly raises his opinion 
of his wife's executive ability to find everything freshened 
and brightened, and that without his having been annoyed 
by the odor of the soapsuds, or yet having been obliged to 
betake himself to the kitchen for his meals. 

But if the order of work is well laid out the night before- 
hand, the breakfast as leisurely eaten as usual, and the 
family dispersed in their various ways before commencing 
operations, then by working with a will wonders can be ac- 
complished in a very short time. It is not worth while to 
undertake a thorough cleaning of all extra china, silver and 
glassware, which may be stored in the china closet in ad- 
ditition to the room itself. They can readily wait over un- 
til another morning, as can the examination of table-linen. 
In cleaning any room after the furniture and carpets have 
.been taken out and the dust swept out with a damp broom, 
the proper order is to begin with the ceiling, then take the 
walls and windows, and lastly the floor. Kalsomining or 
whitewash dries most quickly when exposed to free draughts 
of air, the windows being thrown wide open for the pur- 
pose; this process can also be aided by lighting a fire in the 
room, either in the stove left for the purpose, or in the 
grate. These means are equally good for drying a freshly- 
scoured floor. 

In lieu of regular carpet wadding, layers of newspapers 
are very good padding under a carpet, or better yet, sheets of 



THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK, 281 

thick brown paper will answer very well. Matting and green 
linen shades are delightfully cool in either Bitting or dining- 
room for summer use, or all through the hottest weather if 
the dining-room can be left with a bare floor, and lightly 
washed off with cold water before breakfast each day it will 
add , greatly to the coolness of the room. A fireplace can 
be arranged with a screen before it, or it can be left open, 
the fixtures taken away, and a large stone or pottery jar 
filled with fresh flowers daily set into it. Very showy 
flowers can in this way be made effective in decorating a 
room. Jars covered with pictures of delcalcomania are 
tawdry-looking. Better far to paint them a dull black or 
bottle-green; or a brick-rod, with a plain band or geometric 
design traced in some contrasting color. 

In dining-room furniture oak wood with green trimmings 
and light paint are good contrasting colors, while black 
walnut or mahogany, with red carpet and shades of red 
predominating about the room, look well with dark 
paint. 

In arranging a sitting-room large spaces left empty look 
more comfortable and are more convenient in every way 
than a room huddled too full of furniture. A home is not a 
furniture wareroom nor a fancy bazaar, but a place for 
people to live in, and to grow in, and to move about in. 

House-cleaning time presents an opportunity for dispos- 
ing of many ostensibly ornamental articles which only sfcrve 
to fill up place, without being either beautiful or well-made 
of their kind. 

An empty wall looks better than one hung with daubs. 
Good engravings and plain cheap frames are now obtained 
at such a trifling cost that almost every one can afford on6 
or two excellent ones in their sitting-room. People living 
at a distance can easily send to some large city for an en- 
graving or two, or, if they prefer colored pictures, to some 
well-known establishment for two or three good chromoa 



282 THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK, 

I have seen some of the best newspaper engravings pinned 
upon the sitting-room wall, framed in pressed ferns, with 
very good effect indeed. Once a very simple bracket held a 
glass bumper of unique pattern, from which was trailed 
cypress vines, and mingled with them, a bunch of scarlet 
lychnis. Against the white wall of the room they looked 
brilliant, and the effect was really beautiful. 

"When the sitting-room is torn up frequently an array of 
newspapers, missing books, etc., are found huddled together 
in some corner. In settling the room these should find their 
proper places, and it would be a good thing to keep them 
there ever after, for, no matter how thorough the cleaning 
process, untidiness and litter will soon make any room ap- 
pear nearly as badly as before it was scoured. 



HOW TO DUST A ROOM. 

Soft cloths make the best of dusters. In dusting any 
piece of furniture begin at the top and dust down, wiping 
carefully with the cloth, which can be frequently shaken. A 
good many people seem to have no idea what dusting is in- 
tended to accomplish, and instead of wiping off and remov- 
ing the dust it is simply flirted off into the air and soon 
settles down upon the articles dusted again. If carefully 
taken up by the cloth it can be shaken off out of the win- 
dow into the open air. If the furniture will permit the 
use of a damp cloth, that will more easily take up the 
dust, and it can be washed out in a pail of soapsuds. It 
is far easier to save work by covering up nice furniture 
while sweeping, than to clean the dust out, besides leav- 
ing the furniture looking far better in the long run. The 
blessing of plainness in decoration is appreciated by 
the thorough housekeeper who does her own work while 
dusting. 



THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 283 

GIRLS, LEARN TO COOK. 

Yes, yes, learn ho<v to cook, girls; and learn how to cook 
well. What right has a girl to marry and go into a house 
of her own unless she know3 how to superintend every 
branch of housekeeping, and she cannot properly superin- 
tend unless she has some practical knowledge herself. It is 
sometimes asked, sneeringly, "What kind of a man is he 
who would marry a cook V The fact is, that men do not 
think enough of this; indeed, most men marry without 
thinkiDg whether the woman of his choice is capable of 
cooking him a meal, and it is a pity he is so shortsighted, 
as his health, his cheerfulness, and, indeed, his success in 
life, depend in a very great degree on the kind of food he 
eats ; in fact, the whole household is influenced by the diet. 
Feed them on fried cakes, fried meats, hot bread and other 
indigestible viands, day after day, and they will need medi- 
cine to make them well. 

Let all girls have a share in housekeeping at home 
before they marry; let each superintend some departrr ent 
by turns. It need not occupy half the time to see that the 
house has been properly swept, dusted, and put in order, to 
prepare puddings and make dishes, that many young ladies 
spend in reading novels which enervate both mind and 
body and unfit them for every-day life. Women do not, as 
a general rule, get pale faces doing housework. Their 
sedentary habits, in overheated rooms, combined with ill- 
chosen food, are to blame for bad health. Our mothers 
used to pride themselves on their housekeeping and fine 
needlework. Let the present generation add to its list of 
real accomplishments the art of properly preparing food for 
the human body. 

TEACH THE LITTLE ONES. 

There is scarcely a busy home mother in the land who 



284 THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK, 

has not at some time or other felt how much easier it 
would be to do all the work herself than to attempt to teach 
a child to assist her, whether it be in household matters or 
in sewing. Now, we would speak particularly of the latter. 
But it seems almost the right of every little girl to be taught 
to sew neatly, even if it does cost the mother some self- 
sacrifice. Very few grown women are wholly exempt from 
ever using a needle. On the contrary, almost every woman 
must take more or less care of her own wardrobe, even if 
she has no responsibility for that of any one's around her. 
Machines cannot sew up rips in gloves, replace missing but- 
tons, or make or mend without any needlework by hand. 
Some stitches must be taken, and how to sew neatly is an 
accomplishment quite as necessary, if not more so, to the 
happiness of a majority of women than any other. If a 
little girl be early taught how to use her needle, it very 
soon becomes a sort of second nature to her, and very little 
ones can learn to thread the needle and take simple stitches. 
Only the mother must be patient and painstaking with 
them, not letting poor work receive praise or permitting 
the child to slight what she undertakes. The stint can be a 
very short one with very little children. It is usually best 
bo, but frequent lessons should be given. 

CHILDREN LOVE GAMES. 

Take advantage of this to give them physical training. 
Furnish them the aparatus for games which requires a good 
deal of muscular exercise. Those curious little affairs 
which require them to sit on the floor or gather about 
the table and remain in a cramped position, are not ad- 
visable. 

It is particularly desirable that the games should call 
them into the open air and sunshine. In this way children 
lay in a stock of health and strength. Remember that, par- 



THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 285 

ticularly in our early years, this is infinitely more import- 
ant than all adornments of the person or study of books. 

Let it not be forgotten that symmetrical development of 
the body is of the utmost importance. A child, for example, 
is weak and round-shouldered. It is important that he should 
be made strong. It is not less important that he should be 
made straight. Every conceivable exercise may tend to in- 
crease the strength, but only special exercises tend to draw 
the shoulders back, and thus secure the rectitude which is 
the basis of spinal and visceral tone. It is not difficult to 
give children such games and sports as will have this special 
tendency. 

TEACH YOUR OWN CHILDREN. 

Some parents allow their children to acquire the very 
rude and unmannerly habit of breaking in upon their con- 
versation and those of older persons with questions and re- 
marks of their own. It is very uncivil to allow them to do 
so. So, even among their own brothers and sisters and 
schoolmates, of their own age, let them speak without inter- 
rupting. If one begins to tell a story or bit of news, teach 
them to let him finish it; and if he makes mistakes that 
ought to be corrected, do it afterwards. Don't allow them 
to acquire the habit of being interrupters. Most of those 
who allow their own children to form this disagreeable habit 
will be exceedingly annoyed at the sam<* conduct in other 
folks' children. The fault is that of the parents in not 
teaching their children. If they interrupt at home, tell 
them to wait till they can converse without annoying, and 
see that they do it. 

CULTIVATING SELFISHNESS IN CHIL- 
DREN. 

The mother who in the fullness of generous love runs 
hither and thither continually to do for the various mem- 



286 THE E VER YD A Y COOK-B OOK. 

bers of the family those things which they should do them- 
selves, comes to be regarded as a useful piece of 
machinery, suited to minister to their wants, but she is not 
regarded with one whit more of love or reverence, - rathei 
the reverse. By and by, when the mother is worn out in 
body and spirit, when the child, grown older, feels no need 
of her as its slave, it finds other more attractive playmates 
and companions. 

The mother has necessarily far more labor, care, and anx- 
iety than any other member of the household. She is 
continually occupied, and her work seems to have no end. 
Neither husband nor children will love her the more for 
sacrificing herself wholly to them, as many a sad, weary 
mother has learned to her cost. Let her be just to herself. 
Not that she should make slaves of the children any more 
than they should make a slave of her. But children like to 
be useful, like to feel that they are a real help to older per- 
sons, and if a little praise and perhaps, too, a little money 
is given them, they will learn to enjoy the pleasure of help- 
ing mother and of earning something for themselves, and 
early taught the dignity of labor as well as save their 
mother a little time to keep herself in advance of them in 
study and thought, in general information, and in spiritual 
growth, so as to be always reverenced as their intellectual 
and spiritual guide and friend and counsellor. 

It has been truly said by Miss Sewell, author of an excel- 
lent work on education, that "Unselfish mothers make selfish 
children." This may seem startling, but the truth is, that 
the mother who is continually giving up her own time, 
money, strength,- and pleasure for the gratification of her 
children teaches them to expect it always. They learn to 
be importunate in their demands, and to expect more and 
more. If the mother wears an old dress that her daughter 
may have a new one, if she work that her daughter may 
play, she id helping to make her vain, selfish, and ignorant, 



THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 28? 

and \ ery likely she will be ungrateful and disrespectful, and 
this is equally true of the husband, and other members of 
the family. Unselfish wives make selfish husbands. 



PACKING AWAY FURS. 

All furs should be well switched and beaten lightly, free 
from dust and loose hairs, well wrapped in newspaper, with 
bits of camphor laid about them and in them, and put away 
in a cool dark place. If a cedar closet or chest is to be 
had, laid into that. In lieu of that new cedar chips 
may be scattered about. It is never well to delay packing 
furs away until quite late in the season, for the moth will 
early commence depredations. In packing them they should 
not be rolled so tightly as to be crushed and damaged, 

COURAGE. 

One may possess physical courage, so that in times of 
danger, a railroad accident, a steamboat collision or a run- 
away horse, the heart will not be daunted or the cheek 
paled, while on the other hand, one may be morally brave, 
not afraid to speak a word for the right in season, though 
unwelcome, to perform a disagreeable duty unflinchingly or 
to refuse to do a wrong act, and yet be a physical coward, 
trembling and terrified in a thunder-storm, timid in the 
dark, and even scream at the sight of a mouse. Courage, 
both moral and physical, is one of the finest attributes of 
character, and both can be cultivated and gained if desired 
and sought after. Some girls think it interesting and at- 
tractive to be terrified at insects, and wilt shriek with fright 
if they happen to be chased a few rods by a flock of geese, 
but they only excite laughter and do not gain the admira- 
tion which a brave girl who tries to help herself would de* 
serve. 



288 THE EVERYDAY COOK- BOOK. 



THE ART OF BEAUTY IN DRESS. 

It is far easier to find fault with existing customs than to 
devise and put in practice other and better ones. 

Ladies do not like to appear singular, and make them* 
selves conspicuous by wearing such articles of dress as are 
laughed at, possibly, certainly not worn by any other per- 
sons in the city or county in which she may belong. And 
so the matter goes on. Manufacturers, dry goods, dealers, 
and milliners, and dressmakers, carry the day with a high 
hand. Yet there is always some choice, and as, thanks to 
our civilized habits, a full-length mirror is obtainable by 
most ladies, given the resolution to make the most and be3fc 
of themselves, the greater number of women can so study 
the art of dressing well as to produce some excellent results. 

It will hardly do to copy the old masters of painting in 
the arrangement of drapery, at least anyways closely, for no 
matter how well the voluminous folds may look painted, 
they certainly would be very much in the way in real life, 
and impede any free action of the muscles somewhat, while 
the length of sweeping gowns certainly looks more in place 
on painted canvas than it can do on an ordinary walking 
dress. Ladies have realized this fact, however, and the 
short v> alking-skirt, at once pretty and convenient, has been 
the result. 

In some places the common sense shoe can be found, and 
this permits the muscles of the foot, if not the freest, yet 
fair play. One great mistake in the dressing of the feet is 
in getting the covering too short. It will throw back the 
toe joints, and a bunion is only too frequently the result. If 
the soles of the shoes are too thin, the feet become chilled, 
and disease ensues. Yet in repeated instances they have 
been known to draw the feet and made them exceedingly 
tender and sore. A light cork sole sewed to a knitted 



THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 289 

worsted slipper will give a foot covering, equally light and 
far less injurious in its results. 

There are ladies who wholly ignore woolen hosiery, pre- 
ferring lisle thread, cotton or silk. Yet in winter time, 
particularly for children, woolen stockings are almost a ne- 
cessity, particularly if woolen is worn over the rest of the 
body. There are some people who can not abide the feeling 
of woolen garments next the skin, and they are obliged to 
get their warmth of clothing in other than their undergar- 
ments. Heavy outside garments are not quite so graceful 
as those of softer and lighter material. But if they must 
be worn they will bear a plainer cut than such clothes 
as are naturally clinging, and adapt themselves to the 
figure. 

Solid and plain colors have a greater richness than mixed 
shades. If combined tints are used, they should only be 
such as harmonize well, and in the full-length figure give a 
good personal effect. Probably more ladies err in getting 
good general effects than in any other one particular. They 
have various garments, pretty enough, possibly, in them- 
selves, yet which do not harmonize well together, either in 
material, color or cut, or possibly with their particular 
style of figure and shade of hair and complexion. For ex- 
ample, the skirt will have one style of trimming, the waist 
another, the bonnet may look exceedingly well with one 
suit, and be quite out of keeping with another. A short 
dumpy person will wear flounces, a tall slim one- stripes, 
while some red-haired woman will fancy an exquisite shade 
of pink, while green or blue would have been much more 
becoming. 

Black generally makes people look smaller, and white 
larger. A very pale person can bear a certain amount of 
bright red. Any delicate complexion looks well with 
soft ruchings or laces at neck and wrist. Lace is so ex- 
pensive that it cannot be so generally worn as it might 



290 THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 

be, with excellent effect. Probably no prettier head cover- 
ing has ever been designed than the veils worn by the 
Spanish women. Certainly they are infinitely more grace- 
ful than a modern poke bonnet. 

Dress goods cut up into little bits and sewed together into 
fantastical shapes called trimmings, are apt if too freely 
used to give an air of fussiness to the dress, and be withal 
a source of endless annoyance in catching dust and dirt. 
The former ideas of a border or hem to finish has become 
the greater part of the garment. 

Nothing is gained in grace by making any outside gar- 
ment skin-tight, while much is lost in comfort by so doing. 
A sleeve, for instance, to be serviceable and look well, should 
be loose and adapt itself somewhat to the curve of the arm. 
Likewise a dress waist looks far better a little loose, as 
well as being more healthful and wearing better. 

Large, stout persons can add to their appearance much 
by wearing all outside skirts buttoned on to fitted under- 
garments below the hips several inches, for gathers about 
the waist only add to their stoutness of look, and are un- 
comfortable to carry about. A yoked petticoat answers the 
purpose very well in lieu of the buttoned skirts. 

A wrapper for a tall slim person can have a Spanish 
flounce, while a slashed skirt vsith kilt inserts is more be- 
coming to a short figure. Large folds are always more 
graceful than small pleats and puckers. One very great 
fault of our dressmaking lies in not allowing the goods to 
fall in large and natural folds, but in bunching and pleating 
it in folding, and pressing the goods down into fantastic 
and inartistic shapes. Added to this, paniers, and padding, 
bustles, and hoops, until an ordinary woman is forced to 
appear like a stuffed figure instead of a living human 
being. 

Every woman can modify, and arrange, and simplify, and 
that without becoming either ultra or conspicuous. It will 



THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 291 

take time. That cannot be helped, yet possibly the saving 
in comfort and expense may fully compensate for the few 
hours spent in studying her own dress with the mirror be- 
fore her and with the determination to make the very best 
and most of herself. 



HOME DRESSMAKING. 

The art of dressmaking in America has been of late years 
so simplified that almost anyone with a reasonable degree 
of executive ability can manufacture a fashionable costume 
by using an approved pattern and following the directions 
printed upon it, selecting a new pattern for each distinct 
style; while in Europe many ladies adhere to the old plan 
of cutting one model and using it for everything, trusting 
to personal skill or luck to gain the desired formation. 
However, some useful hints are given which are well worth 
offering after the paper pattern has been chosen. 

The best dressmakers here and abroad use silk for lining, 
but nothing is so durable or preserves the material as well 
as a firm slate twill. This is sold double width and should 
be laid out thus folded: place the pattern upon it with the 
upper part towards the cut end, the selvedge for the fronts. 
The side pieces for the back will most probably be got out 
of the width, while the top of the back will fit in the inter- 
sect of the front. A yard of good staff may be often saved 
by laying the pattern out and well considering how one 
part cuts into another. Prick the outline on to the lining; 
these marks serve as a guide for the tacking. 

In forming the front side plaits be careful and do not 
allow a fold or crease to be apparent on the bodice beyond 
where the stitching commences. To avoid this, before be- 
ginning stick a pin through what is to be the top of the 
plait The head will be on the right side, and holding the 
point, one can begin pinning the seam without touching 



292 THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOR. 

the upper part of the bodice. To ascertain the size of the 
buttonholes put. a piece of card beneath the button to be 
used and cut it an eighth of an inch on either side beyond. 
Having turned down the piece in front on the buttonhole 
side run a thread a sixteenth of an inch from the extreme 
edge, and again another the width of the card. Begin to 
cut the first buttonhole at the bottom of the bodice, and 
continue at equal distances. The other side of the bodice 
is left wide enough to come well under the buttonholes. 
The buttonholes must be laid upon it and a pin put through 
the centre of each to mark where the button is to be placed. 
In sewing on the buttons put the stitches in horizontally; 
if perpendicularly they are likely to pucker that side of the 
bodice so much that it will be quite drawn up, and the but- 
tons will not match the buttonholes. 



A WOMAN'S SKIRTS. 

Observe the extra fatigue which is insured to every woman 
in merely carrying a tray upstairs, from the skirts of the 
dress. Ask any young women who are studying to pass ex- 
aminations whether they do not find loose clothes a sine qua 
non while poring over their books, and then realize the harm 
we are doing ourselves and the race by habitually lowering 
our powers of life and energy in such a manner. As a mat- 
ter of fact it is doubtful whether any persons have ever been 
found who would say that their stays were at all tight; and, 
indeed, by a muscular contraction they can apparently 
prove that they are not so by moving them about on them- 
selves, and thus probably believe what they say. That 
they are in error all the same they can easily assure them- 
selves »by first measuring round the waist outside the 
stays; then take them off, let them measure while they 
take a deep breath, with the tape merely laid on the 



THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 293 

body as if measuring for the quantity of braid to go round 
6 dress, and mark the result. The injury done by stays is so 
entirely internal that it is not strange that the maladies 
caused by wearing them should be attributed to every reason 
under the sun except the true one, which is, briefly, that all 
the internal organ:, being by them displaced, are doing 
their work imperfectly and under the least advantageous 
conditions; and are, therefore, exactly in the state most 
favorable to the development of disease, whether hereditary 
or otherwise. — Maxmillan's Magazine. 

TO MAKE THE SLEEVES. 

As to sleeves. Measure from the shoulder to the elbow 
and again from elbow to the wrist. Lay these measurements* 
on any sleeve patterns you may have, and lengthen or 
shorten accordingly. The sleeve is cut in two pieces, the 
top of the arm and the under part, which is about an inch 
narrower than the outside. In joining the two together, i? 
the sleeve is at all tight, the upper part is slightly fulled to 
the lower at the elbow. The sleeve is sown to the armhole 
with no cordings now, and the front seam should be about 
two inches in front of the bodice. 

Bodices are now worn very tight-fitti ng, and the French 
stretch the material weU on the cross before beginning to 
cut out, and in cutting allow the lining to be slightly pulled, 
bo that when on, the outside stretches to it and insures a 
better fit. An experienced eye can tell a French-cut bodice 
at once, the front side pieces being always on the cross. In 
dress cutting and fitting, as in everything else, there are 
failures and discouragements, but practice overrules these 
little matters, and "trying again" brings a sure reward in 
success. 

A sensible suggestion is made in regard to the finish in 
necks of dresses for morning wear. Plain colors have rather 



294 THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 

a stiff appearance, tulle or crepe lisse frilling are expensive 
and frail, bo it is a good idea to purchase a few yards of 
really good washing lace, about an inch and a half in depth; 
quill or plait and cut into suitable lengths to tack around 
the necks of dresses. This can be easily removed and 
cleaned when soiled. A piece of soft black Spanish lace, 
folded loosely around the throat close to the frillings, but 
below it, looks very pretty; or you may get three yards of 
scarf lace, trim the ends with frillings, place it around the 
neck, leaving nearly all the length in the right hand, the 
end lying upon the left shoulder being about half a yard 
long. Wind the larger piece twice around the throat, in 
loose, soft folds, and festoon the other yard and a half, and 
fasten with brooch or flower at the side. — Philadelphia 
Times. 



ALL ABOUT KITCHEN WORK. 

A lady who for a time was compelled to do all of her 
own kitchen work says: "If every iron, pot, pan, kettle 01 
any utensil used in the cooking of food, be washed as soon 
as emptied, and while still hot, half the labor will be 
saved." It is a simple habit to acquire, and the washing of 
pots and kettles by this means loses some of its distasteful 
aspects. No lady seriously objects to washing and wiping 
the crystal and silver, but to tackle the black, greasy, and 
formidable-looking ironware of the kitchen take a good deal 
of sturdy brawn and muscle as well as common-sense. 

If the range be wiped carefully with brown paper, after 
cooking greasy food, it can be kept bright with little 
difficulty. 

Stoves and ranges should be kept free from soot [in all 
compartments. A clogged hot-air passage will prevent any 
oven from baking well. 

When the draught is imperfect the defeat frequently 



THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 295 

arises from the chimney being too low. To remedy the 
evil the chimney should be built up, or a chimney-pot 
added. 

It is an excellent plan for the mistress to acquaint herself 
with the practical workings of her range, unless her servants 
are exceptionally good, for many hindrances to well-cooked 
food arises from some misunderstanding of, or imperfection 
in, this article. 

A clean, tidy kitchen can only be secured by having a 
place for everything and everything in its place, and by fre- 
quent scourings of the room and utensils. 

A hand-towel and basin are needed in "every kitchen for 
the use of the cook or house-worker. 

Unless dish-towels are washed, scalded and thoroughly 
dried daily, they become musty and unfit for use, as also the 
dish-cloth. 

Cinders make a very hot fire— one particularly good for 
ironing days. 

Milk keeps from souring longer in a shallow pan than in 
a milk pitcher. Deep pans make an equal amount of 
cream. 

Hash smoothly plastered down will sour more readily than 
if left in broken masses in the chopping bowl, each mass be- 
ing well exposed to the air. 

Sauce, plain, and for immediate use, should not be put into 
a jar and covered when warm, else it will change and fer- 
ment very quickly. It will keep some days with care in the 
putting up. Let it stand until perfectly cold, then put into 
a stone jar. 

To scatter the Philadelphia brick over the scouring board 
on to the floor, to leave the soap in the bottom of the scrub- 
bing pail, the sapolio in the basin of water, and to spatter 
the black lead or stove polish on the floor are wasteful, slat- 
ternly habits. 

A clock in the kitchen is both useful and necessary. 



29« THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK, 



A NICE CLOTHES FRAME. 

Our kitchen is very small; too small, in fact, to be very 
comfortable in, and, moreover, has to serve the double pur- 
pose of kitchen and laundry. There was no room to spare 
for the large clothes-horse we had been accustomed to use, 
nor even for a smaller clothes-screen we thought of pur- 
chasing. In this emergency we happened upon a nice 
frame, which consists of bars of wood secured at one end 
in an iron clamp, which screws on the side of a window 
frame. These bars move freely around, and quite a respect- 
able sized ironing can be aired upon them. We found 
they were invented and made by a dealer in the country 
who had no patent upon them, and so, of course, his sales 
must be limited, yet they are very convenient The clothes 
are hung quite out of the way, and yet can be well aired. 



KEEP THE CELLAR CLEAN. 

A great deal of the sickness families suffer could be easily 
traced to the cellar. The cellar not unusually opens into 
the kitchen, the kitchen is heated, and the cellar is not. 

Following natural laws, the colder air of the cellar will 
rush to take the place of the warmer, and, therefore, lighter 
air of the kitchen. This would be well enough if the cellar 
air was pure, but often it is not; partly decayed vegetables 
may be there, or rotten wood, etc. A day should be tal 
to throw out and carry away all dirt, rotten woods, decay- 
ing vegetables, and other accumulations which have gathered 
there. Brush down the I, and with a bucket of 

lime give the walls and ceiling a good coat of whitewash. If a 
whitewash brush is not at hand take an old broom that the 
good wife has worn out, and spread the whitewash on thick 
and strong. It will sweeten up the air in the cellar, tho 



TKE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 297 

parlor, and the bedrooms, and it may save the family from 
the afflictions of fevers, diphtheria and doctors. 



SUNLIT ROOMS. 

No article of furniture should be put in a room that will 
not stand sunlight, for every room in a dwelling should 
have the windows so arranged that some time during the 
day a flood of sunlight will force itself into the apartments. 
The importance of admitting the light of the sun freely to 
all parts of our dwellings cannot be too highly estimated. 
Indeed, perfect health is nearly as much dependent on pure 
sunlight as it is on pure air. Sunlight should never be ex- 
cluded except when so bright as to be uncomfortable to the 
eyes. And walks should be in bright sunlight, so that the 
eyes are protected by veil or parasol when inconveniently 
intense. A sun-bath is of more importance in preserving 
a healthful condition of the body than is generally under- 
stood. 

A sun-bath costs nothing, and that is a misfortune, for 
people are deluded with the idea that those things only can 
be good or useful which cost money. But remember that 
pure water, fresh air and sunlit homes kept free from damp- 
ness, will secure you from many heavy bills of the doctors 
and give you health and vigor, which no money can pro- 
cure. It is a well established fact that people who live 
much in the sun are usually stronger and more healthy than 
those whose occupations deprive them of sunlight. And 
certainly there is nothing strange in the result, since the 
same law applies with nearly equal force to every animate 
thing in nature. It is quite easy to arrange an isolated 
dwelling so that every room may be flooded with sunlight 
some time in the day, and it is possible many town houses 
could be so built as to admit more light than they now re- 
ceive. 



293 THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 



PLEASANT HOMES. 

Handsome furniture will not, unaided, make rooms cheer- 
ful. The charm of a cosy home rests principally with 
its mistress. If she is fortunate enough to have sunny 
rooms, her task is half done. In apartments into which the 
sun never shines recourse must be had to various devices 
to make up, so far as may be, for this grave lack. A sun- 
less room should have bright and joyous color in its fur- 
nishings. The walls should be warmly tinted, the curtains 
give a roseate glow to the light that passes through them. 
An open fire may diffuse the sunshine but lately impris- 
oned in oak or hickory, or ages ago locked up in anthracite. 
Ferneries and shade-loving plants may contribute their gen- 
tle cheer to the room and suggest quift forest nooks. An 
attractive room need not be too orderly. A book left lying 
on the table, a bit of needle- work on the window-sill, an 
open piano, may indicate the tastes and occupations of the 
inmates, without suggesting that there is not a place for 
everything in that room. There is such a thing as being 
too neat and nice to take comfort in everyday life, and this 
is anything but cheerful. And then there is such a thing 
as being so disorderly and negligent that comfort and cheer 
are impossible. If the house-mother cannot rest while there 
is a finger-mark on the paint or a spot on the window- 
panes, she may make a neat room, but her splint will keep 
it from ever being cheerful. If she has no care for the 
" looks of things " her failure will be equally sure. A bird 
singing in the w T indow, an aquarium on the table in some 
corner, plants growing and blooming, domestic pets moving 
about as if at home, these give life and brightness to an 
apartment, and afford constant opportunities for the pleas- 
antest occupation and companionship. Books people a 
room, and pictures on the walls, if selected with taste, are 



THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOR. 299 

ever fresh sources of enjoyment. You may gauge the refine- 
ment and cultivation of a family by these infallible tests, 
unless they have been selected by some outsider. Bits of 
embroidery, of scroll-work, and a thousand tasteful devices 
mtribute to the charm of a room and make it irresist- 
ibly attractive. 



HOW TO BE HANDSOME, 

Where is the woman who would not be beautiful? If 
euch there be — but no, she does not exist. From that 
memorable day when the Queen of Sheba made a formal 
call on the lute lamented King Solomon until the recent 
advent of the Jersey Lily, the power of beauty has controlled 
the fate of dynasties and the lives of men. Hqw to be 
beautiful, and consequently powerful, is a question of far 
greater inportance to the feminine mind than predestina- 
tion or any other abstract subject. If women are to govern, 
control, manage, influence, and retain the adoration of hus- 
bands, fathers, brothers, lovers, or even cousins, they must 
look their prettiest at all times. 

All women cannot have good features, but they can look 
well, and it is possible to a great extent to correct deform- 
ity and develop much of the figure. The first step to good 
looks is good health, and the first element of health is 
cleanliness. Keep clean — wash freely, bathe regularly. All 
the skin wants is leave to act, and it takes care of itself. 
In the matter of baths we do not strongly advocate a 
plunge in ice-cold water; it takes a woman with some of 
the clear grit that Robert Collyer loves to dilate on and a 
strong constitution to endure it. If a hot bath be used, 
let it come before retiring, as there is less danger of taking 
cold afterwards; and, besides, the body is weakened by the 
ablution and needs immediate rest. It is well to use a flesh- 



300 THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 

brush, and afterwards rinse off the soap-suds by briskly 
rubbing the body with a pair of coarse toilet gloves. The 
most important part of a bath is the drying. Every part 
of the body should be rubbed to a glowing redness, using a 
coarse crash towel at the finish. If sufficient friction can- 
not be given, a small amount of bay rum applied with the 
palm of the hand will be found efficacious. Ladies who 
have ample leisure and who lead methodical lives take a 
plunge or sponge bath three times a week, and a vapor or 
sun bath every day. To facilitate this very beneficial prac- 
tice a south or east apartment is desirable. The lady de- 
nudes herself, takes a seat near the window, and takes in 
the warm rays of the sun. The effect is both beneficial and 
delightful If, however, she be of a restless disposition, bhe 
may dance, instead of basking, in the sunlight. Or, if she 
be not fond of dancing, she may improve the shining hours 
by taking down her hair and brushing it, using sulphur 
water, pulverized borax dissolved in alcohol, or some sim- 
ilar dressing. It would be surprising to many ladies to see 
her carefully wiping the separate locks on a clean, white 
towel until the dust of the previous day is entirely removed. 
"With such care it is not necessary to wash the head, and 
the hair under this treatment is invariably good. 

One of the most useful articles of the toilet is a bottle of 
ammonia, and any lady who has once learned its value will 
never be without it. A few drops in the water takes the 
place of the usual amount of soap, and cleans out the pores 
f)i the skin as well as a bleach will do. Wash the face with 
«► flesh-brush, and rub the lips well to tone their color. It 
is well to bathe the eyes before putting in the spirits, and 
if it is desirable to increase their brightness, this may be 
done by dashing soapsuds into them. Always rub the eyes, 
in washing, toward the nose. If the eyebrows are inclined 
to spread irregularly, pinch the hairs together where thick- 
est If they show a tendency to meet, this contact may be 



THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOR, 301 

avoided by pulling out the hairs every morning before the 
toilet. 

The dash of Orientalism in costume and lace now turns 
a lady's attention to her eyelashes, which are worthless if 
not long and drooping. Indeed, so prevalent is the desire 
for this beautiful feature that hair-dressers and ladies' ar- 
tists have scores of customers under treatment for invigor- 
ating their stunted eyelashes and eyebrows. To obtain 
these fringed curtains, anoint the roots with a balsam made 
of two drachms of nitric oxide of mercury mixed with one of 
leaf lard. After an application wash the roots with a cam- 
el's hair brush dipped in warm milk. Tiny scissors are 
used, with which the lashes are carefully but slightly 
trimmed every other day. When obtained, refrain from 
rubbing or even touching the lids with the finger-nails. 
There is more beauty in a pair of well-kept eyebrows and 
full, sweeping eyelashes than people are aware of, and a 
very inattractive and lustreless eye assumes new beauty 
when it looks out from beneath elongated fringes. Many 
ladies have a habit of rubbing the corners of their eyes to 
remove the dust that will frequently accumulate there. 
Unless this operation is done with little friction it will be 
found that the growth of hair is very spare, and in that 
case it will become necessary to pencil the barren corners. 
Instead of putting cologne water on the handkerchief, which 
has come to be considered a vulgarism among ladies of 
correct tastes, the perfume is spent on the eyebrows and 
lobes of the ears. 

If commenced in youth, thick lips may be reduced by 
compression, and thin linear ones are easily modified by 
suction. This draws the blood to the surfaces, and pro- 
duces at first a temporary and, later, a permanent inflation. 
It is a mistaken belief that biting the lips reddens them. 
The skin of the lips is very thin, rendering them extremely 
susceptible to organic derangement, and if the atmosphere 



202 THE EVERYDAY COOIt-lJO; 

does not cause chaps or parchment, the result of such harsh 
treatment will develop into swelling or the formation of 
scars. Above all things, keep a sweet breath. 

Everybody cannot have beautiful hands, but there is no 
plausible reason for their being ill-kept. Red hands may be 
overcome by soakiog the feet in hot water as often as pos- 
sible. If the skin i3 hard and dry, use tar or oat-meal soap, 
saturate them with glycerine, and wear gloves in bed. 
Never bathe them in hot water, and wash no oftener than is 
necessary. There are dozens of women with soft, white 
hands who do not put them in water once a month. Rub- 
ber gloves are worn in making the toilet, and they are cared 
for by an ointment of glycerine and rubbed dry with 
chamois-skin or cotton flannel. The same treatment is not 
unfrequently applied to the face with the most successful 
results. If such methods are used, it would be just as well 
to keep the knowledge of it from the gentlemen. We know 
of one beautiful lady who has not washed her face for three 
years, yet it is always clean, rosy, sweet, and kissable. With 
some of her other secrets she gave it to her lover for safe 
keeping. Unfortunately, it proved to be her last gift to 
that gentleman, who declared in a subsequent note that "I 
cannot reconcile my heart and my manhood to a woman 
who can get along without washing her face." 



SOME OF THE SECRETS OF BEAUTY. 

There is as much a "fashion" in complexion as there is in 
bonnets or boots. Sometime nature is the mode, some- 
times art. Just now the latter is in the ascendant, though, 
as a rule, only in that inferior phase which has not reached 
the "concealment of art" — the poiut where extremes meet 
and the perfection of artifice presents all the appearance 
of artlessness. No one of an observant turn of mind, who is 



THB EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 803 

accustomed to the sight of English maids and matrons, can 
deny that making-up, as at present practiced, partakes of 
the amateurish element. Impossible reds and whites grow 
still more impossibly red and white from week to week un- 
der the unskilled hands of tha wearer of "false colors," 
who does not like to ask for advioo on so delicate a subject, 
for, even were she willing to confers to the practice, the im- 
putation of experience conveyed in the asking for counsel 
might be badly received, and would scarcely be in good 
taste. 

The prevalent and increasing short-sightedness of our 
times is, perhaps, partly the cause of the excessive use 
of rouge and powder. The wield er of the powder puff 
sees herself afar off, as it were. She knows that she 
cannot judge of the effect of her complexion with her face 
almost touching its reflection in the glass, and, standing 
about a yard off, she naturally accentuates her roses and 
lilies in a way that looks very pleasing to her, but is 
rather startling to any one with longer sight. Nor can 
she tone down her rouge with the powdered Lair that 
softened the artificial coloring of her grandmother when she 
had her day. Powder is only occasionally worn with <^en- 
ing dress, and it is by daylight that those dreadful bluish 
reds and whites look their worst. 

On the other hand, there are some women so clevei at 
making up their faces that one almost feels inclined to 
condone the practice in admiration of the result. These 
are the small minority, and are likely to remain so, 
for their secret is of a kind unlikely to be shared. The 
closest inspection of these cleverly managed complexions 
reveals no trace of art. 

Notwithstanding the reticence of these skilled artists, 
an occasional burst of confidence has revealed a few of 
their means of accomplishing the great end of looking 
pretty. "Do you often do that?" said one of those clever 



804 THE E/ERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 

ones, a matron of 37, who looked like a girl of 19, to a 
friend who was vigorously rubbing her cheeks with a coarse 
towel after a plentiful application of cold water. 

" Yes, every time I come in from a walk, ride, or drive. 
Why?" 

" Well, no wonder you look older than you are. You are 
simply wearing your face out 1 M 

" But I must wash ? " 

" Certainly, but not like that. Take a leaf out of my 
book; never wash your face just before going out into 
the fresh air, or just after coming in. Nothing is more 
injurious to the skin. Come to the glass. Do you notice 
a drawn look about your eyes and a general streakiness 
in the cheeks? That is the result of your violent 
assault upon your complexion just now. You look at this 
moment ten years older than you did twenty minutes ago 
in the park." 

" Well, I really do. I look old enough to bo your mother; 
but then, you are wonderful You always look so young 
and fresh 1 " 

" Because I never treat my poor face so badly as you dc 
yours. I use rain-water, and if I cannot get that, I have 
the water filtered. When I dress for dinner I always 
wash my face with milk, adding just enough hot water 
to make it pleasant to use. A very soft sponge and 
very fine towel take the place of your terrible huckaback 
arrangement." 

Two or three years ago a lady of Oriental parentage on 
her father's side spent a season in London society. Her 
complexion was brown, relieved by yellow, her features 
large and irregular, but redeemed by a pair of lovely and 
expressive eyes. So perfect was her taste in dress that she 
always attracted admiration wherever she went. Dressed 
in rich dark brown or dullest crimsons or russets, so that 
no one ever noticed much what she wore, she so managed 



THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 809 

that suggestions and hints — no more — of brilliant amber 
or pomegranate scarlet should appear just where they im- 
parted brilliancy to her deep coloring, and abstract the 
yellow from her skin. A knot of old gold satin under the 
rim of her bonnet, another at her throat, and others in 
among the lace at her wrists, brightened up the otherwise 
subdued tinting of her costume, so that it always looked as 
though it had been designed expressly for her by some 
great colorist. Here rouge was unnecessary. The sur- 
roundings were arranged to suit the complexion, instead of * 
the complexion to suit the surroundings. There can be no 
4oubt as to which is the method which best becomes the 
gentlewoman. 

In addition to the disagreeable sensation of making-up, 
it must be remembered that the use of some of the white 
powders eventually destroys the texture of the skin, ren- 
dering it rough and coarse. Rimmel, the celebrated per- 
fumer, in his "Book of Perfumes," says that rouge, being 
composed of cochineal and saffron, is harmless, but that 
white cosmetics consist occasionally of deleterious sub- 
stances which may injure the health. He advises actors 
and actresses to choose cosmetics, especially the white, with 
the greatest care, and women of the world, who wish to pre- 
serve the freshness of their complexion, to observe the fol- 
lowing recipe: Open air, rest, exercise, and cold water. 
In another part of this pleasant book the author says that 
schonada, a cosmetic used among the Arabs, is quite innocu- 
ous and at the same time effectual. " This cream, which 
consists of sublimated benzoin, acts upon the skin as a 
slight stimulant, and imparts perfectly natural colors during 
some hours without occasioning the inconveniences with 
which European cosmetics may justly be reproached." It is 
a well-known fact that bismuth, a white powder containing 
sugar of lead, injures the nerve-centres when constantly 
employed, and occasionally causes paralysis itsell 



808 TtfE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK, 

In getting up the eyes, nothing is injurious that is hot 
dropped into them. The use of kohl or kohol is quite harm- 
less, and, it must be confessed, very effective when applied 
— as the famous recipe for salad dressing enjoins with re- 
gard to the vinegar — by the hand of a miser. Modern 
Egyptian ladies make their kohol of the smoke produced by 
burning almonds. A small bag holding the bottle of kohol, 
and a pin, with a rounded point with which to apply it, 
form j>art of the toilet paraphernalia of all the beauties of 
Cairo, who make the immense mistake of getting up their 
eyes in an exactly similar manner, thus trying to reduce the 
endless variety of nature to one common pattern, a mistake 
that may be accounted for by the fact that the Arabs believe 
kohol to be a sovereign specific against ophthalmia. Their 
English sisters often make the same mistake without the 
same excuse. A hairpin steeped in lampblack is the usual 
method of darkening the eyes in England, retribution fol- 
lowing sooner or later in the shape of a total loss of the 
eyelashes. Eau de Cologne is occasionally dropped into the 
eyes, with the effect of making them brighter. The opera* 
tion is painful, and it is said that half a dozen drops of 
whiskey and the same quantity of Eau de Cologne, eaten 
on a lump of sugar, is quite as effective. 

HEADACHE. 

One of our English contemporaries has wisely been de- 
voting some thought and space to the common and dis- 
tressing fact that a great many English women suffer from 
headache. The same trouble prevails in America, and 
men, no matter how selfish they may be, are deeply con- 
cerned about it, for a wife with a headache cannot be com- 
panionable; the best of sweethearts with a headache is sure 
to be unreasonable, while a lady who has neither husband 
or other special cavalier to engross her attention can ruin 
the peace of mind of every one she meets while she has a 



THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 307 

headache of perceptible size. No amount of masculine 
grumbling is likely to change all this, but women themselves 
might change it if they would comprehend the causes of the 
malady, and then apply their nimble wits to tho work of 
prevention or cure. 

The trouble is that all American women who have head- 
aches live indoors, where the best air is never good and the 
worst is poison, and they have none of the exercises which 
eaves man from the popular feminine malady. "Were a 
strong man to eat breakfast at any ordinary American table 
and then sit down at a work-table or even move about 
briskly from one room to another, he would have a split- 
ting headache before noon, and the chatter of his innocent 
children would seem to be the jargon of fiends. The mid- 
day meal would increase his wretchedness, and by dusk he 
would be stretched in misery upon his bed, with one hand 
moping his forehead with ice-water, while the other would 
threaten with a club or pistol any one who dared to enter 
the room or make a noise outside. There is no reason why 
women should not suffer just as severely for similar trans- 
gressions of physical law. True, indoor life is compulsory 
for a large portion every day, but special physical exercise 
in a well-aired room i3 within the reach of almost every 
woman, and so is a brisk walk in garments not so tight as 
to prevent free respiration. There is very little complaint 
at summer resorts, where windows are always open and 
games and excursions continually tempt women who do not 
value complexion more than health. Girls who ride, row, 
sail, and shoot, seldom have headaches; neither do those 
unfortunate enough to be compelled to hoe potatoes or play 
Maud Muller in hay-fields. Let women of all social grades 
remember that the human machine must have reasonable 
treatment, and be kept at work or play, to keep it from 
rusting, then headaches will be rare enough to be inter- 
esting. 



603 THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 



HIGH-HEELED BOOTS MUST GO. 

A lady looks infinitely taller and slimmer in a long dress 
than she does in a short costume, and there is always a 
way of showing the feet, if desired, by making the front 
quite short, which gives, indeed, a more youthful appear- 
ance to a train dress. The greatest attention must, of 
course, be paid to the feet with these short dresses, and I 
may here at once state that high heels are absolutely for- 
bidden by fashion. Doctors, are you content ? Only on 
cheap shoes and boots are they now made, and are only 
worn by common people. A good bootmaker will not make 
high heels now, even if paid double price to do so. Ladies 
— that is, real ladies — now wear flat-soled shoes and boots, 
a la Cinderella. For morning walking, boots or high 
Moliere shoes are worn. 

If you wear boots you may wear any stockings you like, 
for no one sees them. But if you wear shoes you must 
adapt your stockings to your dress. Floss silk, Scotch 
thread, and even cotton stockings are worn for walking, 
silk stockings have returned into exclusively evening wear. 
Day stockings should be of the same color as the dress, 
but they may be shaded, or stripped, or dotted, just as you 
please. White stockings are absolutely forbidden for day 
wear — no one wears them — no one dares wear them under 
fashion's interdiction. 

DON'T STOOP. 

Grandmother has noticed that some of her boys lately 
have acquired a very bad habit They go about with their 
backs bent, as if they were fifty years old, and were bearing 
the responsibilities of age on th°ir shoulders. This is all 
wrong. Stand up straight, boys; don't go around with a 
"stoop in your back," as if you had a curvature of the 
pine. If you do, depend upon it, you will have it sure 



THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 80» 

enough long before you get to be old. Always stand erect, 
and when you walk, throw back your shoulders, and take 
that kink out of your backbone. This is easier said than 
clone, isn't it? Grandmother will tell you just how you can 
do it, and remember every word she says, for she has been 
through it all herself, and has straightened up many a 
grandchild in more respects than one. Here is her rule: 

" THROW UP TOUR CHIN I " 

The whole secret of standing and walking erect consists 
in keeping the cliin well away from the breast. This throws 
the head upward and backward, and the shoulders will, 
naturally settle backward and in their true position. Those 
who stoop in walking generally look downward. The 
proper way is to look straight ahead, upon the same level 
with your eyes, or if you are inclined to stoop, until that 
tendency is overcome, look rather above than below the 
level. Mountaineers are said to be as "straight as an ar- 
row," and the reason is because they are obliged to look 
upward so much. It is simply impossible to stoop in 
walking if you will heed and practice this rule. You will 
notice that all round-shouldered persons carry the chin near 
the breast and pointed downward. Take warning in time, 
'and heed gra&dmother's advice, for a bad habit is more 
easily prevented than cured. The habit of stooping when 
one walks or stands *a a bad habit and especially hard to 
cure. 

MAKE HOME PLEASANT. 

A cheerful, happy home is the greatest safeguard against 
temptations for the young. Parents should spare no pains 
to make home a cheerful spot. There should be pictures 
to adorn the walls, flowers to cultivate the finer sensibilities, 
dominoes, checkers, and other games, entertaining books 
and instructive newspapers and periodicals. These things, 



810 THE EVEhYDAY COOK-BOOK. 

no doubt, cost money, but not a tithe the amount that ont 
of the lesser vices will cost — vices which are sure to be 
acquired away from home, but seldom there. Then there 
should be social pleasure — a gathering of young and old 
around the hearthstone, a warm welcome to the neighbor 
who drops in to pass a pleasant hour. There should be 
music and amusements and reading. The tastes of all 
should be consulted, until each member of the family looks 
forward to the hour of reunion around the hearth as the 
brightest one in the twenty-four. Wherever there is found 
a pleasant, cheerful, neat, attractive, inexpensive home 
there you may be sure to find the abode of the domestic 
virtues; there will be no dissipated husbands, no discon- 
tented or discouraged wives, no " fast" sons or frivolous 
daughters. 

DINNER-TABLE FANCIES. 

To be thoroughly good form at dinner is the very inflo- 
rescence of civilized life. Like many other regulations of 
social life, dinner-table etiquette is arbitrary, but not to 
know certain things is to argue yourself unknown so far as 
society life goes. To take soup pushing the spoon from 
rather than toward yourself; to touch the napkin as little 
as possible; to accept or decline what is offered instantly 
and quietly; these and other trifles characterize the well- 
bred diner-out. The attempts to introduce too much color 
in dinner-table decorations are rather declining. The finest 
white damask still holds the preference, and the centre- 
piece of plush or velvet underlace is little used now. 
Fewer flowers, too, are seen, and those in very low forms. 
The dessert plates come in deep tones in Dresden china, 
and the doyley on which the finger-bowl rests should be 
immediately removed with the bowl, on reaching the guest. 
The latest fashion in ice-cream plates is the Bohemian 
glass in oval form with small handles. Menu cards, hand- 



THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. Sl„ 

painted, hold the preference, but many are seen on tinted 
cardboard with engraved vignette in one corner and the 
date in another. 

THE USE OF AMMONIA IN BAKING 
POWDERS. 

The recent discoveries in science and chemistry are fast 
revolutionizing our daily domestic economies. Old methods 
are giving way to the light of modern investigation, and 
the habits and methods of our fathers and mothers are step- 
ping down and out, to be succeeded by the new ideas, with 
marvelous rapidity. In no department of science, however, 
have more rapid strides been made than its relations to tho 
preparation and preservation of human food. Scientists, 
having discovered how to traverse space, furnish heat, and 
beat time itself, by the application of natural forces, and to 
do a hundred other things promotive of the comfort and 
happiness of the human kind, are naturally turning their 
attention to the development of other agencies and powers 
that shall add to the years during which man may enjoy the 
blessings set before him. 

Among the recent discoveries in this direction, none is 
more important than the uses to which common ammonia 
can be properly put as a leavening agent, and which indicate 
that this familiar salt is hereafter to perform an active part 
in the preparation of our daily food. 

The carbonate of ammonia is an exceedingly volatile sub- 
stance. Place a small portion of it upon a knife and hold 
over a flame, and it will almost immediately be entirely de- 
veloped into gas and pass off into the air. The gas thus 
formed, is a simple composition of nitrogen and hydrogen. 
No residue is left from the ammonia. This gives it its 
superiority as a leavening power over soda and cream tartar 
when used alone, and has induced its use as a supple 
to these articles. A small quantity of ammonia in the d 



312 THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 

is effective in producing bread that will be lighter, sweeter, 
and more wholesome than that risen by any other leavening 
agent. When it is acted upon by the heat of baking, the 
leavening gas that raises the dough is liberated. In thia 
act it uses itself up, as it were; the ammonia is entirely 
diffused, leaving no trace of residuum whatever. The light, 
fluffy, flaky appearance, so desirable in biscuits, etc., and 
so sought after by professional cooks, is said to be imparted 
to them only by the use of this agent. 

The bakers and baking powder manufacturers producing 
the finest goods have been quick to avail themselves of thia 
useful discovery, and the handsomest and best bread and 
cake are now largely risen by the aid of ammonia, conibinecL 
of course, with other leavening material. 

Ammonia is one of the best known products of the labora- 
tory. If, as seems to be justly claimed for it, the applica- 
tion of its properties to the purposes of cooking results in 
giving us lighter and more wholesome bread, biscuit, and 
cake, it will prove a boon to dyspeptic humanity, and will 
speedily force itself into general use in the new field to 
which science has assigned it. 

LAUGHTER. 

"The laughter of girls is, and ever was, among the most 
delightful sounds of earth." Truly there is nothing sweeter 
or pleasanter to the ear than the merry laugh of a happy, 
joyous girl, and nothing dissipates gloom and sadness 
quicker, and drives dull care away like a good, hearty laugh. 
We do not laugh enough; nature should teach us this lesson, 
it is true; the earth needs the showers, but if it did not 
catch and hold the sunshine, too, where would be the bright- 
ness and beauty it lavishes upon us? Laugh heartily, laugh 
often, girls; not boisterously, but let the gladness of your 
hearts bubble up ouce in a while, and overflow in a glad, 
mirthful laugh. 



THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. 313 

ITEMS WORTH REMEMBERING. 

A sun-bath is of more wo»th than much warming by the 
fire. 

Books exposed to the atmosphere keep in better condition 
than if confined in a book-case. 

Pictures are both for use and ornament. They serve to 
recall pleasant memories and scenes; they harmonize with 
the furnishing of the rooms. If they serve neither of these 
purposes they are worse than useless; they only help fi 11 
space which would look better empty, or gather dust and 
make work to keep them clean. 

A room filled with quantities of trifling ornaments has 
the look of a bazar and displays neither good taste nor good 
sense. Artistid excellence aims to have all the furnishings 
of a high order of workmanship combined with simplicity, 
while good sense understands the folly of dusting a lot of 
rubbish. 

A poor book had best be burned to give place to a better, 
or even to an empty shelf, for the fire destroys its poison, and 
puts it out of the way of doing harm. 

Better economize in the purchasing of furniture or carpets 
than scrimp in buying good books or papers. 

Our sitting-rooms need never be empty of guests or our 
libraries of society if the company of good books is admit- 
ted to them. 

THOSE UNGRACEFUL HABITS. 

A public conveyance brings one awkwardly ne^r the 
faces of strangers. Perhaps from sheer inanity one is 
apt to take undue notice of his fellow-passengers. When 
glances meet, the gaze is lowered to the flounces of the 
lady seated near, or to the trim, polished boot of a gent 
at the far end of the car. There are nice people every- 
where, and if one is artistic in taste, there ;*iil ever be a 



314 THE EVURYDAY COOK-BOOK. 

looking for beauty of face or form, in dress, or carriage, or 
manner, or speech ; but " why is the fresh girl facs so often 
marred by the ugly habit of cribbing? w " A beautiful wo- 
man," whispered a friend, and the eye was attracted toward 
a grand looking lady with wide, white forehead, from which 
the brown glossy hair was smoothed away without the ghost 
of a crimp; there were pretty arching brows, tth&ding lashe3, 
shapely nose, but, alas! for the ruby lips bittou and moist- 
ened so often as to prevent the possibility o't catching the 
outline — the profile so needful to the sketcher of beauty.' 
A poet has somewhere said that "affectation beg;* as with 
the mouth," but "who would charge the goufcle Lex with 
vanity ! " 

What ! To redden by biting, or brighten by wetting ; 
that folly could not be. Let us rather suppose the h-ir one 
had by some mishap forgotten to lunch, and all this h due 
to the gnawings of hunger. While thus seeking to palliate 
the fair cribber, a young man becomes noticeable by persist- 
ently pulling at the ends of his moustache, chewing them 
in a hungry way, now changing the exercise by twisting 
them to needle-like points which he seemed to be coa^ng 
upward. 

"From whence has come this ugly habit? " one is fain to 
ask. Certainly not from pride. A line flowing beard a^id 
full moustache ought not to be a cause of folly to the owner. 
The hairs of the face, given to protect the throat and lungs 
never to be shorn in the cold seasons, can it be that there 
is nutriment in them ? While thus questioning, the writer's 
two hands were suddenly jerked from his side pockets, 
where they had been comfortably resting. The wife's gentle 
remonstrance had been brought to mind by the entrance of 
an awkward fellow, with hands deeply thrust in tbe pockets 
of his torn pants. A caricature of one's self is often a tacit 
reproof. That very morning the dear wife had said • 
"Those torn BJie-pockets are the most difficult of tears tc 



THE EVERYDAY COOK-BOOK. SIS 

mend." And the inward monitor asked: <c From whence 
has come this indolent habit? From love of ease or want 
of mittens, which? Perhaps indifference of the patient 
mender's." And again the monitor asked : 

"What of that habit not comparable to weeds for 
growth ? " 

" What mean you ? " was meekly asked. 

"That of looking well to one's own faults, that lesson the 
hardest and the latest learned : to know thyself." Then the 
Writer realized that he, too, was not quite perfect 



INDEX. 



BREAD AND BREAKFAST 
DISHES. 

PAGE. 

Yeast 130 

Plain White Family Bread.- 130 

Graham Bread 131 

Boston Brown Bread 131 

Corn Bread t - 132 

Steamed Brown Bread 132 

Parker House Rolls. 132 

French Rolls. - 132 

Buns - 133 

Biscuits - - 133 

To Make Rusks — 133 

Sweet Milk Gems - 134 

Breakfast Gems 134 

Graham Breakfast Cakes- 134 

Buckwheat Cakes. 134 

Flannel Cakes 135 

Rice Griddle Cakes.- 136 

French Pancakes- 136 

Pancakes 136 

Bread Fritters- 13G 

Quick Sally Lunn- 137 

Breakfast Cake 137 

Quick Waffles 137 

Johnny Cake - 137 

Mush - 137 

Corn Mush 138 

Graham Mush 138 

CAKE& 

White Lady Cake - ISO 

Macaroons 1^0 

Almond Icing - 181 

To Make Icing for Cakes — 181 

Loaf Cake 182 

Rich Bride Cake - 182 

Lady-Fingers .. — 182 

Queen Cake- - 1S3 

Chocolate Macaroons- - 183 

Caramel Cake. - 1^3 

Pound Cake 184 

Cocoa nut Sponge Cake 184 

Cocoauut i\»uud Cake 186 



PAGE, 

Oocoanut Cup Cake. ..„ 185 

Cocoanut Drops -..- 185 

Citron Heart Cakes — 186 

Imperial Cakes — 186 

Plum Cakes 186 

Gold and Silver Cakes 187 

To Make Small Sponge Cakes 1S7 

Lemon Cheese Cakes 188 

Snow Cakes - 188 

Tilden Cakes 183 

Corn Starch Cakes ls8 

Birthday Cakes 189 

Naples Biscuit 189 

Cake Trifles 189 

Savoy Cake „.. 189 

Composition Cake 190 

A inond Cream Cake 190 

Ice-Cream Cake 190 

Economical Cake 191 

Delicate Cake 191 

Orange Cake 191 

Jelly Kisses 192 

Fig Cake 192 

Fried Cake 192 

Cocoanut Kisses 192 

California Cake 193 

White Mountain Cake - 193 

Lemon Cake 193 

Strawberry Short Cake- 193 

Marble Cake .. 194 

White Pound Cake 194 

Nelly's Chocolate Cake 194 

Rice Cake 195 

Cream Cake 195 

Sponge Cake - 195 

Doughnuts 195 

Coffee Cake -.. 196 

Spice Cake .... 196 

Soft Ginger Bread - 196 

Sweet Strawberry Short Cake 196 

Ginger Nuts „„,. - 196 

Ribbon Cake 197 

Jelly Roll -. 197 

Delicate Crullers »♦. 198 



INDEX. 



COSMETIQUE& 

PAGE. 

Completion Wash 245 

To Clear a Tanned Skin - 245 

Oil to Make the Hair Curl 245 

Wrinkles in the Skin .. 245 

Pearl Water for the Face — 246 

Pearl Dentifrice .- 246 

Wash for a Blotched Face - 246 

Face Powder - - 246 

Bandoline - 246 

A Good Wash for the Hair ~ 247 

DKINKS. 

To Make Green Tea 232 

To Make Black Tea— Make as di- 
rected for Green- — 232 

Iced Tea .. - 232 

Coffee 233 

Chocolate - 233 

Lemon Syrup « 233 

Strawberry Syrup 234 

Raspberry Syrup - 234 

Strawberry Sherbet 234 

Raspberry Vinegar 235 

Lemonade ...» 235 

Egg-Nog _. 235 

Raisin Wine 235 

Currant Wine - 236 

Ginger Wine - 236 

Fine Milk Punch 236 

Claret Cup 237 

Roman Punch - 237 

Cream Nectar -. — 237 

Red Currant Cordial 237 

Elderberry Syrup - 238 

DESSEKT and TEA DISHES. 



199 
_ 199 
... 199 
.-200 
.-201 



Boiled Custard- 
Lemon Custard....—.... 

Snow Custard. — .... 

Tapioca Custard....—-, 

Blanc Mange — 

Rice Blanc Mange - 201 

Apple Trifle — — .. - 202 

Lemon Trifle...... 

Floating Island- 
Apple Snow — .. 

Tropical Snow....—, 

Swiss Cream — .. 

Italian Cream....— 
Whipped Cream.... 

Tipsy Cake 

Snow Pyramids... 



202 
203 
.- 203 
.- 203 
... 204 
.- 204 
... 204 
.- 205 
.- 2U5 



FAGS. 

An Excellent Dessert 205 

Apple Fritters 206 

Jelly Cake Fritters - - 206 

Black Meringue .. - 206 

Charlotte Russe. - 207 

Jellied Grapes 207 

Jelly and Custard - 207 

Lemon Toast — 207 

Dish of Snowwhipped Cream 208 

Omelet for Dessert — 208 

Jelly Fritters. 209 

FISH. 

Boiled Salmon - 34 

Broiled Salmon 34 

Baked Salmon — 34 

Salmon Trout ~ 35 

Spiced Salmon (Pickled) — 35 

Salmon and Caper Sauce .. 36 

Salmon Cutlets - 36 

Dried or Smoked Salmon 36 

Boiled Cod 37 

Cod Pic „......—.....■ 37 

Dried Codfish 37 

Stewed Salt Cod —~ 37 

Codfish Cakes 38 

Boiled Bass .. 38 

Fried Bass ~ 38 

To Fry or Boil Fish Properly 39 

Baked Black Bass 39 

Broiled Mackerel 89 

Salt Mackerel with Cream Sauce-... 40 

Boiled Eels - -. 41 

Fricassed Eels - 41 

Fried Eels - 41 

Collored Eels 41 

Fried Trout 42 

Trout in Jelly (or other Fish) 42 

Boiled Trout - - - 42 

Broiled Trout 43 

Baked Haddock — 43 

Curried Haddock 43 

Fricassed Haddock 44 

Broiled White Fish (Fresh) 44 

Baked White Fish 44 

To Choose Lobsters 45 

Boiled Lobsters *5 

Curried Lobsters 45 

Lobster Chowder ~ 45 

Chowder *. - - 46 

To Fry Smelts 46 

Red Herrings or Yarmouth Bloaters 47 

Rolled Fish 47 

Oysters on the Shell....— .... — 43 



INDEX. 



iii 



PAGE. 

Oysters Stewed with Milk 48 

Oysters Fried in Butter..... 48 

Oysters Scalloped 48 

Oysters Fri d 49 

Oyster Patties 49 

Oysters Broiled 50 

Clam Fritters SO 

Clams, Soft Shelled 50 

To Broil Soft Shell Clams 50 

Clam Chowder 51 

ICES, ICE-CREAM, CANDY. 

Currant Ice ~ 226 

Strawberry or Raspberry Ice 226 

Orange and Lemon Ices 226 

Ice-Cream 226 

Vanilla or Lemon Ice-cream 227 

Strawberry Ice-cream 227 

Chocolate Ice-cream - 227 

Cream Candies 223 

Pineapple Ice-cream 228 

Italian Cream 229 

To Make Barley Sugar 229 

To Make Everton Toffy 230 

Cocoanut Drops. 230 

Molasses Candy 230 

Chocolate Caramels - 230 

Lemon Candy - 231 

INVALID COOKERY. 

Port Wine Jelly 239 

Tapioca Jelly ■■ 

Arrowroot Wine Jelly 239 

Jellied Chicken 233 

Chicken Broth 240 

To Make Gruel 240 

Barley Water 241 

Arrowroot Blanc Mange 241 

Lemonade for Invalids .... 211 

Mutton Broth 212 

Flax Seed Lemonade 242 

Arrowroot - 242 

Stewed Rabbitsin Milk 213 

Slippery Eim Bark Tea ~..~ ~ 243 

Beef Tea .. 243 

Egg Wine 243 

Toast Water _ 244 

Onion Gruel - 244 

MEATS. 

Roast Beef. ~ — 52 

Round of Beef Boiled. 52 

Beef Salted, or Corned Beef.... 52 



FAS* 

To Boil Corned Beef...... ~ 64 

A Nice Way to Serve Cold Beef 64 

Spiced Beef. — 64 

Broiled Beefsteak. .. ~ 65 

Fried Beefsteak to 

Beefsteak Pie 66 

Boiled Leg of Mutton ~ 66 

Roast Loin of Mutton .- 67 

Broiled Mutton Chops ~ 67 

Mutton Chop, Fried - 57 

Roast Forequarter of Lamb - 57 

Lambs' Sweet Breads - ~ 58 

To Roast Veal - 59 

Veal Cutlets - 60 

Stuffed Fillet of Veal with Bacon- 60 

Veal Cake 61 

Veal Pie 61 

Bailed Calf's Head 62 

CalfsHead Cheese 63 

Boiled Calf'8 Feet, Parsley and 

Butter 63 

Caifa Liver and Bacon 63 

Sweet Breads 64 

dVeal Hash 64 

i Beef with Yorkshire Pudding 65 

Beef Ilearr, Baked or Roasted 65 

Beef Kidney 66 

Rolled Beef. 66 

Boiled Tongue 67 

Fricassed Tripe 67 

Broiled Tripe -. - 67 

Roast Rabbit 68 

Stewed Rabbit. Larded 68 

Frieasscd Rabbit 69 

A Pretty Dish of Venison 69 

To Boil Venison Steaks. .. 69 

Beeksteak and Kidney Pudding... 70 

BREAKFAST DISHES. 

Hashed Cold Meat 71 

I i and Beef Hash 71 

Dried Beef. 72 

Cbicken Cutlets 72 

Beef Patties 73 

Jellied Veal 73 

Rice and Meat Croquettes. — 74 

American Toast 74 

Meat and Potatoes 74 

Breaded Sausages 74 

Ham Croquettes .. „. 74 

A Nice Breakfast Dish 75 

Chicken iu Jelly _.....~~. 76 

A Good Diglu ■.■■■■■wm. -■■.—'■.■■■■■ 75 



iw 



INDEX, 



MISCELLANEOUS. 

PAGE. 

An Excellent Hard Soap 213 

To Wash Woolen Blankets 248 

For Clothes that Fade - 249 

Lamp Wicks 249 

To Make Old Crape Look Nearly 

Equal to New 249 

A Cement for Stoves 249 

To Clean Kid Cloves 250 

Stains and Spots - 250 

To i.emove Grease Spots ~ 251 

Stains on Marble 251 

Paint or Varnish 252 

To Remove Ink from Carpets - 252 

To Remove Ink from Paper- 252 

Feed for Canary Birds. 252 

ink on Rosewood or Mahogany 253 

Coal Fire 253 

Polish for Bright Stoves and Steel 

Articles 253 

To Prevent Pumps from Freezing... 253 

To Keep Starch from Sticking 253 

To Keep off Mosquitoes- 254 

To Brighten Gilt Frames 251 

To Make Hens Lay in Winter 254 

To Preserve Sle^l Pens 254 

Mice 254 

Camphor 2 ^ 

To Clean Combs 2oo 

For Cleaning Jewelry 255 

For Washing Silver and Silverware 2oa 
For Washing Glass and Glassware.. 256 

Insects and Vermin 256 

Mdths in Carpets 257 

Smooth Sadirons 257 

To Sweeten Meat 257 

Stove Polish <f 

Cleaning White Paint *» 

To Cleanse the Inside of Jars 2~S 

Furniture Polish 258 

Squeaking: Doors 258 

For Cleaning Mirrors 253 

To Soften Putty 2,>8 

To Remove Stains from Mattresses. 259 

Kalsominir-g J' 9 

Papering Whitewashed Walls 2 J 

How to Clean Corsets 260 

To Clean Hairbrushes- 260 

How to Wash Flannels - 2G0 

Cleaning Lace - 26 | 

New Kettles. 2b 1 

To Keep Flies oil Gilt Frames 261 

To Prevent Knives from Rusting... 201 



FAGfc 

Cement for Glassware- 262 

Waterproof Paper M 262 

Recipe for Violet Ink 262 

Perspiration 262 

Renewing Old Kid Gloves 263 

Cologne Water 2G3 

To Cleanse a Sponge - 263 

Icy Windows 263 

To Remove Blood from Cloth- 2 3 

Camphor Ice 264 

Starch Polish 254 

To Clean Feathers 261 

To Test Nutmegs- ~. 2C4 

To Clean Mica - 2C4 

To Soften Hard Water 264 

To Destroy Vermin in the Hair 265 

To Remove Bruises from Furniture 265 

Pearl Smelling Salts ~ ~ 265 

Pounded Glass 265 

Polish for Boots 265 

To Clean Plate 266 

To Clean Decanters 266 

Spots on Towels and Hosiery 266 

Croup 267 

Poison Ivy or Oik 267 

Convulsion Fits 268 

Burns and Scalds 268 

Cuts - 263 

Cold on the Chest -. 263 

Bleeding from the Nose.- 268 

Chilblains 269 

To Cure a Sting of Bee or Wasp 270 

For Toothache 270 

Choking 270 

Excellent Carminative Powder for 

Flatulent Infants 270 

Cubeb Berries for Catarrh 271 

Diarrhoea —• 271 

For Sick Room 271 

Bites of Dogs 272 

Measles and Scarlatina— 272 

Stye in the Eye 272 

For Constipation 273 

Leanness 273 

Superfluous Hairs - 273 

The Breath 274 

The Quinine Cure for Drunkenness 274 

For Sore Throat - 274 

A Good Cure for Colds 274 

To Stop Bleeding 275 

A H'-alth Appetizer - 275 

To Remove Discoloration from 
B^uii&s•••••••••»•«••••• , • , * c "•*••••**•••"" , " , *•* 



12WEX. 



PAGE. 

fiarftrhe... .....a. ...... <mu 275 

To Cure Toothache 276 

For Felon ~ 276 

Excellent Deodorizers 276 

To Cure a Boil 276 

To Cure a Whitlow 277 

Tape 'Worms 277 

For a Caked Breast 277 

Remedy fur Blistered Feet 277 

Relief for Asthma 277 

Chapped Hands 27S 

Lunar Caustic ~ 273 

Rheumatism and Headache 273 

Fever and Ague 273 

For a Fainting Fit 278 

To Restore from Stroke of Light- 
ning 279 

Relief for Inflamed Feet 279 

Warm Water 279 

Cleaning House, Sitting and Dining 

Room 27!) 

How to Dust a Room 2S2 

Girls Learn to Cook 2S3 

Teach the Little Ones 2S3 

Children LoveGames 2S4 

Teach Your Own Children 2S5 

Cultivating Selfishnessiu Children 2S5 

Packing Away Furs 287 

COTrage - 2s7 

The Art of Beauty in Dress 288 

Home Dressmaking 290 

A Woman's Skirts - 292 

To Make Sleeves 293 

All About Kitchen Work ~ 291 

A Nice Clothes Frame 206 

Sunlit Rooms 297 

Pleasant Homes 2G3 

How to be Handsome 209 

Headache 306 

High-Heeled Boots SOS 

.; >me Pleasant 809 

Dinner Table Fancies ~ 310 

The Use of Ammonia - 311 

Laughter - 812 

Items Worth Remembering - '313 

Those Ungraceful Habits....,, 313 

PUDDINGS. 

Remarks 154 

Christmas Plum Pudding - 154 

Boiled Batter Pudding 155 

Batter Pudding 155 

Madeira Pudding ~.. 156 



Apple Sauce PiiA fling -..- 156 

Queen of Puddings 156 

Orange Pudding - 157 

Corn Starch Pudding 157 

French Pudding 153 

Belle's Pudding 153 

Cream Tapioca Pudding 159 

A Bachelor's Pudding L"9 

Macaroni Pudding.... 159 

Eaked Indian Pudding ICO 

Boiled Indian Pudding ICO 

Marmalade Pudding 160 

Boiled Apple Pudding 161 

Nelly's Pudding - 101 

Rich Eaked Apple Pudding 162 

Snow B.dls. 162 

Rice Tudding - 162 

Apple Charlotte -. 1C3 

(•r u: d Rice Pudding 163 

Fig Pudding 163 

Bread and Butter Pudding 164 

Cabinet Tuddiug 164 

Snow Pudding > 16* 

Carrot Pudding - 165 

Lemon Pudding 1C3 

Roly-Poly Pudding 163 

Cottage Pudding 165 

Cocoanut Pudding 166 

Cream Pudding 1C6 

Tapioca Podding 16*6 

Common Custard 166 

PUDDING SAUCE& 

Rich Wine Sauce 163 

Whipped Cream Sauce - 168 

Lemon Sauce - 168 

Jelly Sauce 168 

• Pudding Sauce 1C9 

g Sauce «..- 1C9 

Spanish Sauce ~ 169 

Hard Sauce 169 

Pudding Sauce 169 

Sauce for Plum Pudding 1" n 

Vanilla Sauce ~ 170 

PASTRY. 

Very Good Puff Paste ~ 171 

Plainer Paste - 172 

Suet Crusts for Pies or Puddings... 172 

To Ice Pastry 172 

To Graze Pastry ~ — 173 

Mince Meat ~ 173 

Mock Mince Pie »..«.^^- 174 



v\ 



INDEX. 



PAGE. 

Apple Custard Pie., M . »....,». 174 

Apple Meringue Fir - 174 

Apple Pie 175 

Lemon Pie 175 

Custard Pie 175 

Cocoanut Pie 176 

Lemon Tarts 176 

Pastry Sandwiches 176 

Cherry Pie 177 

Squash Pie 177 

Cream Pie 177 

Tartlets 177 

Peach Pie 173 

Pumpkin Pie 178 

Tart Shells 173 

Mince Pies 179 

PRESERVES, CANNED 
FRUITS, JELLY. 
To Preserve Plums "Without the 

Skins 210 

To Preserve Purple Plums 210 

Preserved Greengages in Syrup 211 

Preserved Cherries in Syrup - 211 

Preserved Pears 212 

Preserved Peaches 212 

Preserved Citron 213 

Crab Apples Preserved 213 

Pineapples Preserved 213 

Gooseberry Jam 213 

C irrant Jam 214 

Raspberry Jam 214 

Quince Preserve... 214 

Red Currant Jelly 215 

Apple Jelly 216 

Black Currant Jelly 216 

Crab Apple Jelly 217 

Other Jellies 217 

Wine Jelly 217 

Calves' Feet Jelly 217 

Orange Marmalade 218 

Lemon Marmalade 218 

Quince Marmalade 218 

Peach Marmalade - 219 

Apple Butter 219 

Lemon Butter 219 

Peach Butter 220 

PRESERVED AND CANNED 
FRUITS. 

Apple Ginger (A Dessert Dish) 220 

Iced Currants — ~ 220 

To Bottle Fresh Fruit —~ ~ 221 



PAG* 

To Green Fruit for Preserving in 

Sugar or Vinegar 221 

To Color Preserves Pink 222 

To Color Fruit Yellow.. 222 

Canned Peaches 222 

Canned Strawberries 222 

Canned Pears 223 

Canned Plums 223 

Caund Currants „ 223 

Canned Pineapple 224 

Canned Quinces.. 224 

Canned Tomatoes „ 224 

Canned Corn 224 

POULTRY, GAME, ETC. 

Roast Turkey 77 

Boiled Turkey .. 78 

To Roast a Fowl or Chicken - 79 

B died Chicken „ .... 80 

Broiled Chicken 80 

Fried Chicken » 80 

Fricassee of Chicken 81 

To Curry Chicken 81 

Pressed Chicken 81 

Chicken Pot-Pie .. 82 

Chicken Salad 82 

Chicken, Jellied 83 

Chicken Pates 83 

Sage and Onion Stuffing for Geese, 

Ducks and Pork 83 

To Roast a Goose 84 

Roast Ducks - 85 

Roast Pigeons 85 

To Make a Bird's Nest - 86 

Pigeons in Jelly 86 

Pigeon Pie 87 

Wild Ducks 88 

Roast Wild Duck 88 

Wild Turkey 88 

To Roast Snipe, Woodcock, and 

Plover .. 89 

Roast Partridge ~ ID 

Roast Quail 90 

Roast Prairie Chicken - 90 

Larded Grouse 91 

PORK, HAM AND EGGS. 

To Choose Pork .. 91 

Curing Hams 92 

To Roast a Leg of Pork 92 

Pork and Beans « - 93 

Pork Sausages - 93 

Pork Chops, Steaks and Cutlets.— H 



INDEX. 



vil 



PAGE. 

Roast PIg...~~ ~. 94 

Pigs' Check 95 

Roast Spare Rib 95 

Pork Fritters ~ 9G 

Baked Ham 96 

To Boil a Ham - 96 

To Broil a Ham 97 



Fried Ham and Eggs. 



97 

Ham Toast 97 

Head Cheese - 98 

Pigs' Feet Soused 99 

To Make Lard - 99 

To Tell Good Eggs ICO 

Keeping Eggs Fresh 100 

Poached Eggs 101 

Dropped Eggs 101 

Stuffed Eggs - 101 

Eggs a la Suisse 102 

Eggs Brouille 102 

Eggs Curried 102 

Eggs Creamed 103 

ScA Boiled Eggs - - 103 

Eggs Upon Toast 103 

Dutch Omelet 103 

Eggs Poached In Balls 104 

Omelet au Natural 101 

Omelet in Batter 101 

Scrambled Eg^s - 105 

Omelet (Splendid) ~ 105 

SOUPS. 

Remarks on Soups...- 20 

Stork Soups - 22 

White Stock 22 

Shin of Beef - 23 

Mutton with Tapioca 24 

Veal 25 

Ox Tail 25 

Vegetable ~ - 25 

Macaroni 26 

Vermiceili 26 

Chicken Cream 26 

Mock Turtle 27 

Hard Pea .. 27 

Green Pea .. 28 

Potato - 29 

Tomato 29 

Game ~ SO 

Celery 30 

Oyster ~ 30 

Lobst r 31 

Egg Balls for Soup .. .. 31 

Noodles „~ — 31 



PAG*. 

Irish Stew .. 32 

To get up Soup in Haste 33 

To Color Soups .. 33 

SAUCES FOR MEATS, ETC. 

To Make Drawn Butter 128 

Parsley S.iuce 123 

Egg Sauce 123 

Onion Kiuce 124 

Anchovy Sauce 121 

uce 124 

Tomato Sauce 124 

Tomato Mustard 125 

Mint Sauce 125 

Celery Sauce 125 

Governor's Sauce 125 

Cream Sauce ~ 128 

Russian Sauce 126 

Mayonnaise Sauce ~ 126 

Oyster Sauce 127 

Lobster Sauce 127 

Caper Sauce 127 

Mustard Sauce 127 

Curry Sauce - 128 

Cranberry Sauce 128 

Port Wine Sauce for Game -» 129 

Currant Jelly Sauce 129 

Apple Sauce - 129 

SALADS, PICKLES AND 
CATSUP. 

Lettuce 139 

Lettuce Salad - 139 

Salmon Salad 140 

Lobster Salad 140 

Tomato Salad Ml 

Sardine Salad 141 

Salad Dressing 141 

French Salad Dressing HI 

Cream Dressing for Cold Slaw 142 

Chicken Salad 142 

Red Vegetable Salad <. - 112 

Celery Salad 143 

Cold Slaw 143 

Salad Dressing (Excellent)-., 113 

Pickled Cucumbers 144 

To Pickle Onions 144 

Pickled Cauliflowers 144 

Red Cabbage - 144 

To Pickle Tomatoes 145 

Tvipe Tomato Pickles 145 

Chopped Pickle -..- 1« 



viil 



INDEX. 



PAGE. 

Chow-Chow «~ 146 

Piccalilli 116 

Pickled Walnuts (very good) 116 

Green Tomato Pickle 147 

Chili Sauce 147 

Mixed Pickles 147 

Pickled Mushrooms 148 

Favorite Pickles 148 

Tomato Mustard 119 

Indian Chetney 149 

Pickled Cherries 149 

Pickled Plums 150 

Bpiced Plums 150 

Peaches, Pears and Sweet Apples..- 150 

Tomato Catsup 150 

Walnut Catsup 151 

Mushroom Catsup 151 

Brine that Preserves Butter a Year. 132 
Butter in Haste 152 

VEGETABLES. 

Boiled Potatoes 106 

Mashed Potatoes 106 

Fried Potatoes 107 

Broiled Potatoes 107 

Potatoes and Cream 107 

Potato Puffs 10S 

Potato Snow 108 

Potato Border 108 

Potatoes, Whipped 108 

Potatoes, Scalloped 109 

Potato Croquettes 109 

Potatoes a la Cream 109 

To Boil Sweet Potatoes 109 

Boasted Sweet Potatoes. 110 

Baked Sweet Potatoes ~ 110 

French Fried „. M .,,... M ... 110 



>A<38, 

Turnips _.., U0 

Spinach , m 110 

Beets ill 

To Preserve Vegetables for Winter. Ill 

Delicate Cabbage 112 

Red Cabbage 113 

Cauliflowers 113 

Mashed Carrots 113 

Boiled Green Corn - 113 

Green Peas 114 

To Boil Onions 114 

Fried Ouions 114 

Boiled Parsnips 114 

Parsnips Fried in Butter 115 

Parsnips Creamed 115 

Parsnip Fritters 115 

Salsify, or Vegetable Oyster 116 

Broiled Vegetable Marrow... 116 

Stewed Tomatoes 117 

Baked Tomatoes 117 

Stuffed Tomatoes 118 

Scalloped Tomatoes 118 

To Peal Tomatoes 118 

Baked Beans 119 

String Beans 119 

Butter Beans 119 

Asparagus with Eggs 120 

Asparagus upon Toast 120 

Mushrooms, Stewed • 120 

Mushrooms, Fried....! 120 

Mushrooms, Baked 121 

Mushrooms, Broiled 121 

Mashed Squash 121 

Baked Squash 121 

Fried Squash 121 

Stewed Celery 122 

Stuffed Eg£ Pl&uL .« - 139 



r 












i 







