LIBRARY OF CONGRESS. 

Shelf -.-5-^-^2) ^ 



UNITED STATES OF AMERICA. 



—HINTS— 

from 
Southern Epicures. 



-rv^sAr- CF c 
SEP 26 ]S92 



Copyi-ighted by tne •> — ^ 

Flower Committee of the ^ / ^ ^ J JK 

)endent Presbyterian Church, ' / 



Independent Presbyterian Church, 
Savannafti, Ga. 



/^.' 

n 










T ▼ T 



Preface. 

It has been the effort of the young ladies, who have under- 
taken this work, to send out a book that will combine the practical 
with the dainty. These receipts have been given by some of the 
leading Southern epicures; and have been tried and proven. It is 
the earnest wish that this book may meet with the public's approval ; 
not only because of its worthy object to assist in the rebuilding 
of the Sunday School of the Independent Presbyterian Church, but 
for its own merit. 



▲ ▲ A 



Contents. 



Page. 

Bread, ......... 35 

Cake Receipts 22 

Candy, ......... 40 

Crabs, 13 

Desserts, 25 

Drinks, 38 

Eggs, to serve, 39 

Fish, II 

Ices, 30 

Meats and Entrees 13 

Oysters, 12 

Preserves and Pickles, . .... 32 

Salads, 18 

Soups and Stews, 5 

Vegetables, 20 



— SOUPS AND STEWS. — 

* Xtouilloii. 

Let one pound of beef from the round, chopped very fine, 
stand for one hour in one pint of cold water ; then put it on the 
fire, and let it just come to the boil. Remove at once and strain. 
Season with celery, salt and pepper, or parsley and salt. Serve in 
cups. 

Mock Bisque Soup. 

One quart of tomatoes, two quarts of milk, a large tablespoon- 
ful of butter, and a large one of flour, a scant teaspoonful of soda, 
pepper and salt. Put the milk on to boil, and then rub the flour and 
butter together ; thin with a little cold milk, and add this to the 
boiling milk, and after it has boiled for about fifteen minutes, add 
the tomatoes and soda, which were first strained through a colander 
and then stewed. Season with salt and pepper. 

Terrapin Soup. 

Scald four fine terrapins in boiling water, and take off the 
outer skin, Cut them in half and take out the eggs, and put them 
in a basin of water. Then take carefully all the meat from the 
shells ; the liver take also. Mince finely the latter with one pound 
of fat bacon, and put it into your digester ; wash the terrapins, and 
put them in ; add twenty cloves, two blades of mace, salt and pep- 
per, and cover well with water. Put it on a good fire, and boil 
steadily for about four-and-a-half hours. Then put into a bowl 
almost half a pint of browned flour ; add a teaspoonful of allspice, 
a little cayenne and a little butter ; pour some of the soup liquor 
upon these, and mix into a smooth paste. Then add the paste and 
and eggs ; stir well and put back on the fire to boil well for three- 
fourths of an hour, Before sending to the table add two glasses of 
wine, and if liked, some force meat balls. If the terrapins have no 
eggs, half dozen eggs should be boiled hard, cut into four parts and 
put in the soup. Serve lemon with it. 



Force meat Balls. 

Chop the meat very fine ; chop fine two or three shces of cold 
ham, and mix with it also a piece of lemon, a little nutmeg, black 
pepper, allspice and two eggs. Make into balls and fry brown. 

mock Turtle Soup. 

A shin or marrow-bone of beef — a large fat one, with plenty of 
marrow, makes the soup nicer. Three-fourths pound of bacon mid- 
dling, one pint browned flour, one-half dozen eggs, one lemon,, 
one level teaspoonful of cloves, one-fourth teaspoonful of mace, 
black pepper and one-half pint of wine. Trim and wash the bacon, 
and cut it into several pieces ; break the bone ; take out the mar- 
row and put it in cold water. Then have ready your kettle with 
about twelve quarts of cold water, put in the shin, bacon, a little 
salt and black pepper, and put it on to boil six or seven hours be- 
fore dinner. Let it boil steadily, skimming well two hours before 
dinner, put in the marrow, and take out some of the best portions 
of the meat to make force meat balls. Half hour before dinner 
run the soup through a colander to take out all pieces of meat, 
thicken with the browned flour and spices ; let it boil well, add the 
wine and let it boil up, and it is done. Have ready in tureen the 
force meat balls, one sliced lemon, one-half dozen hard boiled 
eggs, cut in four pieces each; and pour the soup upon them. Serve 
with lemon and wine on table. 



Tomato Soup. 

A nice shin bone, two quarts of tomatoes, half pint browned 
wheat flour, one teaspoonful of pulverized allspice, a little black 
pepper. Crack the bone so that the marrow may come out ; wash 
it and put it on in 8 quarts of water, with a little salt, five or six 
hours before dinner, and let it boil steadily, skimming it well, An 
hour before dinner run it through a colander to take out the pieces 
of meat, which will have boiled to pieces, add the tomatoes, allspice, 
and black pepper to taste. Fifteen minutes before dinner mix half-pint 
browned flour with half pint or more of the soup, which you have 
cooled so that there are no lumps, and add to the soup ; let it boil 
five or ten minutes and serve. You may add a little lemon juice 
at table if you like. 



Pota.£o Soup. 

Boil six large potatoes, after they have been pared and sliced 
with one small onion ; pass through a colander and return to pot, 
adding salt, cayenne pepper, parsley and one-fourth pound butter. 
Boil ten minutes longer, when you put in tureen, and add one 
cup of rich cream. 

Okra. Soup. 

A nice shin bone, two quarts of okra, two quarts of tomatoes • 
corn cut off six ears, one green pepper, salt and black pepper to 
taste. Wash the bone and put it on to boil in four quarts of water 
When it boils up skim well, and add the okra, sliced very fine, and 
the green pepper sliced, let this simmer. About three hours before 
dinner add the tomatoes, which have been passed through the 
colander, so that they are entirely free from lumps, and one pint of 
butter beans put in now, is an improvem.ent. Then about one hour 
before dinner you add the corn, This soup must not be on a hard 
boil at any time^ but must boil steadily. 

Turkey Soup. 

The frame and bones from cold turkey, one quart of milk 
or cream, yolks of two eggs, two tablespoonful of flour, one 
large tablespoonful of butter, salt and pepper to taste. Put 
the bones on after they have been cracked, in three or 
four quarts of water and boil steadily up to half hour before 
dmner, then strain and return to the pot, adding one-and-a- 
half pints of milk. Rub the flour and butter together. Then add 
the yolks of the eggs and the other half pint of milk, put this into 
the boiling soup, and let it boil for about ten minutes longer when 
it is done. 

Black Bean Soup. 

One pint of beans, six cloves, a half onion, pepper and salt, a 
slice of bacon. Soak the beans all night in about three quarts of 
warm water, and put on to boil in the same water in the morning. 
Let it boil almost all day ; strain through a sieve, put in slices of 
lemon, a little browned flour, fried bread in squares to eat with it. 

Artichoke Soup. 

One quart of milk, one quart of artichokes, one tablespoon- 
ful of butter. Scrape the artichokes and boil them in salt and 



8 

water, until perfectly tender. Boil the milk with the artichokes, 
then add butter and black pepper ; then thicken with flour to con- 
sistency of cream. 

Cla.iu 8oup. 

To one pint of clams add one quart of milk, three small onions, 
two tablespoonfuls of butter, the yolk of one egg, rubbed in a table- 
spoonful of flour, a little thyme, salt and pepper, parsley, and six 
grains of allspice. Cut the soft part of the clams in two pieces, and 
mince the tough part very fine, and boil it one hour in a quart of 
water before the soft is added. Then boil the soft part with it one- 
half hour before adding the milk and egg. 

Crab Soup. 

.Fry an onion in butter and stew with it the tomatoes, mace, pot- 
marjoram, red pepper and salt ; strain the tomatoes, and to it add 
the picked crabs, with a quart of water. Stew down until rich 
enough; add a spoon of butter, just before serving; rub up the 
yolk of an egg with a teaspoonful of flour, two of cream or milk, 
and stir in ; about one dozen tomatoes, or one quart of milk will 
answer for six crabs. 

Bisque Soup. 

Stew and strain one quart can of tomatoes with a scant tea- 
spoon of soda. Boil three pints of milk ; add a large tablespoon- 
ful of flour, well mixed with a dessert spoon of butter, salt and pep- 
per to taste. Let all boil for ten minutes, then add the tomatoes 
just before serving. 

Oyster Soup. 

One quart of oysters, one quart of milk, one tablespoon of but- 
ter, one small tablespoon of flour, cayenne pepper, salt and celery. 
Boil the milk with the celery cut up in it. When it comes to a boil 
add the flour and butter, which have been rubbed up together, and 
boil for about ten minutes, then the pepper and salt, and oyster, 
which have not been drained. 

Chicken Ste^iv. 

One pint of milk, one cup of cream, one tablespoonful of 
butter, three tablespoonfuls of flour, half a teaspoonful of onion 
juice and a little chopped parsley, one glass of wine. Rub butter 
and flour together until well mixed. Boil milk, and when it comes 



to a boil, stir in butter, flour and cream. Continue stirring and 
boil a few minutes ; add onion juice and parsley. Then chicken 
which has been boiled and chopped fine. Take off fire and add 
wine. 

Brunsv^ick Stei»^, 

To two quarts of cold water, put one chicken cut up, and two 
or three slices of fat bacon, cut into small pieces. Let it boil 
slowly for four hours, then add one half pint of Irish potatoes, cut 
small, one half pint of ripe tomatoes, peeled and cut fine, one half 
pint of butter beans, three ears of tender corn, cut down the center 
of each grain, and then cut off; one teaspoonful of pepper, the 
same of sugar. One tablespoonful of butter, and salt to taste. Let 
this boil one hour. Take out all bones, and serve hot. 



Oyster Stcwr, 

Oysters should be drained several hours, then cream your but- 
ter, (a tablespoonful to a quart of oysters), one dessert spoonful of 
powdered biscuit, rubbed up with the butter. One or two blades of 
mace, two gills of sweet cream. Stew all together until the oysters 
are plump. 

Kidney Steiiv. 

Take two .kidneys, (veal are preferred), cut them in round 
slices, place them in a pint of water with sufficient browned flour 
to make a thick gravy, add a small piece of butter, a little black 
pepper, a tablespoonful of Worcester sauce, a httle onion cut up, a 
small glass of sherry adds very much to the flavor, but is not 
necessary. Kidneys should be boiled a very longtime, until per- 
fectly tender. 

Slirinip Ste^w, 

One quart of shrimp, one pint of milk, one tablespoonful of 
butter, one teaspoonful of flour, cayenne pepper, one wineglass of 
wine. Boil the milk, then mix the flour and butter, rubbed up 
together; then add the pepper, after boiling for about ten minutes; 
then place the shrimp in and boil for ten minutes more. Just be- 
fore serving put in the wine and cut a few small pieces of lemon. 
Crab stew is similarly made to this. 



lo 

Chicken nvitU ]?Ittsliroon Stew. 

Fry the chicken without any gravy. Take one-half pint of 
milk, and with it put the liquid that comes with the mushroons ; 
boil together, then add one tablespoonful of butter and a dessert 
spoon of flour, rubbed together and stir in the milk. After boiling 
ten or fifteen minutes add cayenne pepper and salt, then add the 
mushroons ; which will boil for ten minutes. Pour this sauce over 
the chicken, just before serving. 

Terrapin Ste^*". 

Cut off the heads and throw them into cold water for about one 
hour, to draw out the blood. Scald them in boiling water; to take 
off the skins and nails, then boil rather slowly until they are 
thoroughly done, so that the legs can easily be pulled off. Then 
let them draw again. Open them and take out the gall. Cut them 
up tolerably fine, and put them in a stew-pan, throw in a little 
water to prevent them from burning. Put a quarter of a pound of 
butter to each terrapin, taking care to keep them well stirred, to 
prevent burning; season with cayenne pepper and salt to taste. 
Stir in the yolks of three eggs, (that have been boiled for ten 
minutes, and are well mashed,) to each terrapin. Stir this whole 
very thoroughly, and pour in by degrees a wine glass of rich 
cream to each terrapin, to which when stewed down a little add a 
wine glass of Maderia to each terrapin.' Stir all the time. In- 
stead of water use the liquor in which the terrapins have been 
boiled ; add a few allspice while boiling. 

Calf)« Head. 

Take a nice head, and after having it well cleaned, put it to 
boil in two quarts of water for one hour-and-a-half slowly ; pepper 
and salt to taste. Remove from the water and clean it from the 
bones in as large pieces as possible, leaving out the brains. Put a 
large bit of butter in a pan, and dredge it well with flour, and 
brown first on one side then on the other. When done put it on 
a dish and garnish with parsley. Make the gravy of the liquor 
with the brains washed in it, and thicken with butter and flour. 
When the gravy is done, put a large cup of sherry wine in it, and 
stir well. Pour it over. 



II 



— FISH. — 

Sbad. 

Cut the shad in pieces, as if for frying, sprinkHng between the 
layers a small quantity of onion, allspice, pepper and salt. Cover 
the whole with vinegar, lay a plate over, and bake for four hours 
in a slow oven. The bones are dissolved, and it is a nice relish for 
luncheon or tea. 

Sheep IIea.<i» 

Have ready a large chafing dish, put into it well-cleaned, cut 
up and salted fish. Put in water enough to cook it well, and 
when cooked there will be very little water left. Add then a cup of 
tomato catsup, a tablespoon of butter and a little cayenne pepper. 
Instead of the catsup use a half a pint of claret and a little spice, 
with butter, pepper and salt. This is a delicious dish for late 
suppers. 

Freslt Salmon Pates. 

Two cans of salmon, two eggs, one large lump of butter, pep- 
per and salt to taste. Moisten the fish with milk and water, pound 
the bones and add them to the seasoning. Put into shells or pate 
pans, sprinkle with cracker dust, and bake for a few minutes. 

To Stew Fish. 

After the fish is cleaned it must be in Salt for one hour, then 
slice it, wash off the salt. Shce onions in the stew pan with two or 
three tablespoons of sweet oil, then put in the fish, a small bunch of 
parsley chopped, salt and cayenne to taste, some mace, a tea cup 
of vinegar and water to cover the fish. Let it cook on a slow fire 
until done, then remove the fish, return the stew pan to the fire, 
squeeze the juice of a lemon, with the yolks of eight eggs an,d grated 
nutmeg. Stir these with the other ingredients ; return the fish to 
the stew pan, and let it stew for a few minutes. 

Codfislft. 

Soak in cold water over night, and prepare in the following 
manner in the morning . One pint of the fish chopped fine, and a 
half pint of mashed Irish potatoes, with a pint of milk. Boil to- 
gether in a pan, adding butter and pepper to taste. Poach ten 
eggs, and throw them over the top as you serve the codfish. 



Codfish Balls. 

One pint of raw codfish, two pints of raw, pared, Irish pota- 
toes, two eggs, a teaspoonful of mustard, pepper, and butter the 
size of an egg. Pick the fish very fine, put the potatoes in the pot, 
then put the fish on top of them. Cover with boihng water, and 
boil for a half hour. Drain off all the water. Mash fish and 
potatoes together until fine, then add the other ingredients. A lit- 
tle milk may be added. Have a deep kettle with boiling lard, 
drop croquettes into this and fry to a light brown. 

Fried Fisb. 

The following are best to prepare in this manner : trout, smelts, 
and whiting. They should be well cleaned, rolled in flour and corn, 
meal, which have been thoroughly mixed and salted. Dip in hot 
lard and fry to a crisp brown. 

A. Sauce for Boiled Fish. 

Two ounces of butter, a little flour and about two tablespoon- 
fuls of water. Put about two ounces or two-and-a-half ounces of 
butter in a saucepan, with two tablespoonfuls of water ; shake in a 
little flour, place over a clear fire, and shake one way, until it boils. 
Then pour over your fish. 

— OYSTERS 



Fried Oysters. 

Beat the yolks of two eggs, add a little nutmeg and a blade of 
mace, pounded, a spoon of flour and a little salt ; dip in your 
oysters. Fry them in lard a light brown. 
Oyster Pie. 

Line a deep dish with a thinly rolled dough, put in a slice or 
twQ of bread to prevent its becoming misplaced, and bake. Sea- 
son the oysters with pepper and salt ; add one large teaspoonful of 
butter, mix one large teaspoonful of wheat flour thoroughly with 
a cup of milk ; pour the mixture into a dish, after removing the 
bread. If it does not fill it, add a little cold water. 
Escaloped Oysters. 

Drain thoroughly from liquor. Fill deep dish with alternating 
layers of oysters, with pepper and salt to taste, and cracker crumbs, 
and small pieces of butter. Having the last layer of cracker 
crumbs, you can add celery in small pieces or seed. Bake. 



13 

Creamed Oysters, 

Prepare a rich cream sauce of one pint milk, tablespoonful of 

butter, salt, pepper, celery, then thicken to the consistency of 

custard. Then drop the oysters in, and boil a few minutes. 

/■ 
Oyster Pate, 

Use the above receipt for filling, and place in pate shells. 

— CRABS. — 

Deviled Crabs. 

Prepare the crabs, then add a tablespoonful of butter, salt, 
pepper, a little vinegar, mustard, two well beaten eggs. Place in 
backs and sprinkle lightly with cracker crumbs, and bake lightly. 

Crab Rissoles. 

Stew or fry the crabs when picked, with pepper, salt and but- 
ter, then mix them with a small onion cut up with some powdered 
biscuit or a slice of soaked bread, and a half nutmeg grated over it. 
Roll the ingredients into form-like doughnuts, and dip them into 
an omelette, and floured with corn flour or powdered biscuit. Fry 
in lard. 

— MEATS AND ENTREES. 

To Dress tbe Inside of a Sirloin. 

Cut the inside of a sirloin of beef, and put it into a stew-pan 
with a pint and a half of good gravy, a tablespoon of catsup and 
a little mace, pepper and salt. Let it stew slowly for one hour, and 
serve with horseradish sauce. 

To Bake a Tongue. 

Put the tongue into an earthern pan, lay a few slices of butter 

on the top, cover the pan with a crust made of flour and water, and 

bake it, according to its size, in a moderately heated oven. When 

done, take off the skin and straighten it out on a board. Securing 

it through the root and tip with a fork or skewer. When cold 

glaze it. 

To Broil Steak. 

Steak about three-quarters or. half an inch thick. Divide it in 
halves, place the grid-iron over a clear fire, and rub the bars with 
suet to prevent the meat from adhering to them. Place the two 



14 

steaks on it, and broil them ; turning them frequently with a fork, 
carefully pricking it through the fat. If the stake itself is pricked, 
the gravy will run out, and it will harden. Have ready a hot dish, 
on which you have placed a lump of butter, the size of a walnut, a 
tablespoon of mushroon catsup, and a little salt and pepper. Lay 
the steaks on the dish and serve as quickly as possible. 

Tripe. 

Take two pounds of fresh tripe, cut away coarsest fat, and 
boil it from twenty minutes to half an hour in equal parts of milk 
and water. Boil in the same water which boils the tripe; four large 
onions, the onions should be put on the fire at least half an hour 
before the tripe is put into the stew-pan, and then made into rich 
onion sauce, which serve with the tripe. 

Minced Mutton. 

Take a pound and-a-half of dressed mutton, and mince the 
mutton. Season it with pepper and salt, warm half" a pint of good 
brown gravy, or gravy made from the bones. Make the mince 
very hot in it, and serve it on the table with a border of poached 

Roast Sboulder ria.mb. 

Place the joint at a moderate distance from a clear fire, and keep 
it constantly basted, to prevent the skin from becoming burnt. 
When done dish it up, and serve with gravy, made in a dripping- 
pan. Serve up mint sauce in a tureen. 
Ltamb Cbops. 

Cut the chops from a loin of lamb. Let them be about three- 
quarters of an inch thick; broil them over a clear fire. When they 
are done, season them with pepper and salt. Have ready a mould 
of nicely mashed potatoes in a hot dish, place the chops leaning 
against them, and serve very hot. 

Calf's Head Boiled. 

Soak the half calf s head in cold water for an hour and-a-half 
then for two minutes in hot water before it is dressed. Put it in a 
sauce-pan with plenty of cold water, and let it boil gently. When 
the scum rises, skim it carefully. After the head boils, let it sim- 
mer gently and hour-and-a-half. Serve it with melted butter and 
"parsley over it, and garnish with slices of lemon and tiny heaps 
of fried parsley. 



15 
Roast Shoulder of Veal. 

Remove the knuckle from the shoulder of veal for boiling, 
and roast what remains, as the fillet, either stuffed or not with veal 
stuffing. If not stuffed serve with mushroon sauce, and garnish 
with sliced lemon. 

Receipt for Boiling' Ham. 

Let the ham soak in water one night. Put it on to boil early 
the next morning. Let it simmer all day — taking it off the fire at 
night. The next day take of the skin, cover it with breadcrumbs 
or cracker dust, and bake it. A pint bottle of champagne or ale 
will improve the flavor. 

Ham Croquettes. 

Three boiled Irish potatoes, a small spoon of salt, a pinch of 
black pepper, a tablespoonful of butter, a tablespoonful of cream, 
and three-quarters of a cup of lean ham, minced fine. 

ENTREES. 



Ham and Chicken. 

Cut into pieces as for frying a full grown] fowl. Slice thin 
about one dozen slices of raw ham, with the fat on. Lay in boil- 
ing water for one or two minutes to draw out the strong taste. Cut 
into slices, rather thick, some cold boiled (white) potatoes. Grate 
about one half an onion. Place in a large stove pan a layer of 
chicken, one of potatoes, one of ham ; sprinkle a little onion, and 
one teaspoonful of butter. Repeat until all the ingredients are 
used. Put no water. Cover and bake in a moderate oven for one 
hour, or until the chicken and ham are thoroughly cooked. A 
very little salt is required; add pepper. 

Chicken With Okra and Tomatoes. 

One red pepper pod whole. Cut up two spring chickens. 
Fry a whole onion, and pepper until slightly brown, then remove. 
Put in the chicken and fry a light brown. When cooked take up 
and pour into the same sauce one quart of tomatoes, which have 
been chopped fine and strained, or one can and one quart of sliced 
okra. When they are thoroughly done, stir the chicken into them 
and serve; removing the pepper at the same time with the onion. 



i6 
Cbickeu a la Creme. 

Fry two spring chickens, drain from the pan all grease, pour 
over the following sauce ; let it all simmer together for a few 
minutes before serving : Sauce. — One tablespoonful of butter, one 
tablespoonful of flour, one small cup of milk, one small cup of 
sweet cream. Melt the butter, but don't brown, stir in the flour, and 
cook until thick, then pour in the milk, and lastly the cream. Stir 
together the yolks of two eggs, and add four tablespoonfuls of milk 
or cream.. Pour over chicken to simmer a few minutes, but not cook, 
or it will curdle. Salt and pepper to taste ; add a little chopped 
parsley. One can of mushroons added to this sauce is a great 
improvement. 

Terrapin Calapasli. 

The terrapin must be opened and stewed down slowly, and 
well seasoned with a little mace, allspice, black and red pepper. 
Then melt one tablespoonful of butter, which has been rolled into 
balls, with one of flour. Cook together slowly until thoroughly 
done ; add one wine-glass of wine ; put back into the upper shell ; 
cover with cracker dust, dot with pieces of butter, and brown in 
oven. 

Rice Bird Pie. 

Take one quart of boiled rice, three eggs, two spoonfuls of 
butter, and one pint of milk. Stew one dozen birds gently, then 
remove and cool. Beat eggs separately until light; stir in the 
butter with the yolks ; add the whites, then the milk, (half pint of 
the water in which the birds have been cooked is better to use, 
witha half-pint of milk, but that is optional) ; add salt and pepper 
to taste. Put a layer of this mixture in a baking-pan, then one of 
rice birds, and alternate until all the ingredients are used, letting a 
layer of the rice preparation come on top. Let it bake in a 
moderate oven for about thirty minuies. 



Rice Bird Pilau. 

Stew one dozen or more rice birds until thoroughly done, with 
one red pepper and salt to taste. When cooked remove from the 
water, and sprinkle in one pint of rice. Boil twenty minutes, then 
drain all the water off; stir in the rice birds, and put on the back 
of the range to steam until the rice becomes grainy. 



17 
Sbrimp Ca.i&a.pe. 

Cut some round slices of bread, about one inch thick, and 
brown shghtly in butter. Peel and chop very fine one quart of 
shrimp. Stir in one heaping spoonful of butter, one tcaspoonful 
of French mustard, a little salt may be added, but is not neces- 
sary. Spread on the rounds of toast, and serve cold. 

Sltrimp a la Neivburgh. 

Peel and cut in half two quarts of shrimp. Put in a vessel on 
the fire, with a heaping spoonful of butter and saltspoonful of 
cayenne pepper, and if convenient four truffles, cut up ; cook five 
minutes, then add one glass of Maderia or Sherry ; cook three 
minutes. Break into a bowl three eggs, and add a half-pint of 
cream ; beat well and stir in the shrimp. Let the mixture simmer 
slowly, (but not boil) until it thickens well. Crabs can be used in 
the same way. 

A la Couclic. 

Prepare chicken as for fricassee. Peel cucumbers, and slice as 
for table. Scald, peel and slice tomatoes. Put in layers in a bak- 
ing dish with a spoonful of butter in each alternate layer of all in- 
griedients, with salt, pepper and grated cracker, Bake in a mode- 
rate oven until the chicken is tender, and the same thick and rich. 

/• 
Liver and. Cbickeii Pate. 

A light colored, tender calf hver, cut or chopped into small 

pieces. One half the quantity of lean ham, prepared the same way. 

Pepper, parsley (chopped very fine), a pinch only of cloves, allspice, 

and mace ; cook thoroughly. When done put in a mortar, and 

pound well. Skin and remove the meat of a chicken or foul, frorh 

the bones and mince fine ; stir in a spoonful of butter. Mix with 

the liver paste, put in a mould and steam for two or three hours. 

Sbrimp Croq[uettes "Witli Rice^ 

Peel and chop fine two quarts of shrimp. One cup of boiled rice. 
Put one ounce of butter and one of flour together in a sauce-pan, 
and stir until they begin to bubble, then add half-pint of milk and a 
gill of rich cream. Stir and cook until it forms a rich creamy 
sauce, then add the dry boiled rice, and stir in the shrimp ; a httle 
pepper and salt to taste, Put on the ice until firm ; when mould 
and fry like other croquettes. 



i8 

Tomatoes Stuffed with Sbrimp. 

Take large, firm tomatoes, cut off a small piece of the stem 
end, and remove carefully the inside with a teaspoon. Cut the 
shrimp into two or three piece, but don t chop them. Mix with a 
heaping spoonful of butter, salt and pepper. Stuff the tomatoes with 
them, sprinkle a little cracker dust, and brown in an oven. Crabs 
are very nice, served in the same way. 

Sbrin&p Baked \¥itli Tomatoes. 

Stew a little, and strain one quart, or one can of tomatoes. 
Have two quarts of shrimp peeled. Put a layer of tomatoes in a 
baking-pan, then a layer of shrimp, a spoonful of butter, and a 
layer of cracker dust, pepper and salt to taste. Sprinkle the 
cracker dust over the top, dot with butter. Bake slowly until thick 
and slightly jellied. 



SALADS, 



Turkey Salad. 

Boil turkey until very tender. If a large fowl, use only the 
white meat. To this, cut into small pieces (not minced), add an 
equal quantity of crisp celery, cut into squares. Mix well ; put in 
a little salt and pepper ; then put into a cool place. Just before 
using, mix in the Mayonnaise dressing — any of the refceipts given 
below will answer — then garnish dish with slices of hard boiled 
eggs and olives. 

Mayounaise Dressing^. 

The yolk of one hard boiled ^g<g powdered ; about one mus- 
tard-spoonful of mustard ; a little red pepper, and salt to taste ; the 
yolks of three raw eggs mixed well ; then add the olive oil, slowly 
and stirring, until quite thick; then put in a dessert-spoonful of vin- 
egar, or lemon-juice, if preferred. 

Frencli Mayonnaise. 

One half tea-spoonful of mustard, two salt-spoonfuls of salt, a 
pinch of red pepper ; to this add the oil, drop by drop, stirring hard 
for nearly an hour. Then may be added two table-spoonfuls of vin- 
egar or the juice of a lemon. 



19 
FrencliL Dressing. 

Mix three table-spoonfuls of olive oil to one of vinegar, one salt- 
spoonful of salt, a sprinkling of black pepper. This dressing is ex- 
cellent for lettuce or sliced tomatoes. 

Crab Salad. 

One dozen crabs, six potatoes mashed, mix well ; one table- 
spoonful of butter, one onion minced fine, table-spoonful of mus- 
tard, tea-spoonful of black pepper, the same of celery seed, red 
pepper to taste, half tea-cup of cider vinegar : two hard-boiled eggs, 
the yolks pounded and mixed in, the whites cut in rings to put on 
top of dish, together with slices of lemon and tomatoes. Allow to 
cool in refrigerator before serving. 

Potato Salad. 

Boil one quart of old potatoes ; when cold, cut into pieces, put 
in one tea-spoonful of salt, then add one half-pint of thick cream, 
into which you can cut up a small piece of onion (it is best to mince 
it very fine); put in a little red pepper and a sprinkling of black ; 
then place in the ice box some time before serving. 

Eg-g and Celery Salad. 

Cut twelve hard-boiled eggs into slices ; take the crisp, white 
part of two bunches of celery, cut up fine ; put a layer of cel- 
ery, then of eggs ; then add Mayonnaise dressing, made of the 
yolks of two raw eggs, a half tea-spoonful of mustard, a little red. 
pepper, salt to taste, one teacup of olive oil stirred in slowly, drop 
by drop ; thin with vinegar or lemon juice, and mix well with celery. 
Shrimp Salad. 

One quart of picked shrimp. For this quantity, two heads of 
lettuce are required. Mayonnaise is made by yolk of one hard- 
boiled egg, mashed with fork, to which is added the yolks of two 
raw eggs, twelve drops of tobasco, two salt-spoonfuls of salt, a little 
red pepper, one tea-cup of oil, put in slowly, stirring all the time- 
when thick, add two teaspoonfuls of vinegar and a little black 

pepper. 

Lobster Salad. 

Take one large or two small lobsters ; when well boiled, pull 
to pieces with fingers instead of cutting ; then mix well with May- 
onnaise; then place in the lettuce leaves. The dish can be gar- 
nished with hard-boiled eggs and the lobster claws. 



20 

Cl&icken Salad. 

Boil two chickens, using only white meat cut fine ; add two 
bunches of celery cut up ; mix well with Mayonnaise; then place 
in a dish containing nice crisp lettuce. 

Boiled May on liaise. 

One cup of fresh milk, yolk of one egg, tea-spoon of mixed 
mustard, salt-spoon of salt, a dash of cayenne pepper, table-spoon 
of vinegar, Mix mustard and egg together ; add gradually the 
milk, salt and pepper, last the vinegar ; put it to boil, and stir un- 
til it thickens to consistency of cream. Put in ice box to cool. 

VEGETABLES. — 

Corn Pie. 

Take one dozen ears of corn ; boil six, and cut from cob ; then 
grate the others raw ; mix together with one-half pint of milk, one- 
fourth pound of butter, four eggs well beaten and one quart of 
stewed tomatoes ; salt and pepper to taste ; bake until nicely 
browned. To this a quart of shrimp makes an improvement. 
Corn Fritters, 
One dozen ears of corn grated, half-pint milk, a table-spoonful 
of flour (self-raising), three eggs, a little salt and black pepper; 
fry in boihng lard; then lay them on a large piece of brown paper, 
to absorb the grease, and serve. 

Egg Plant. 
Boil, then remove the skin ; mash well with salt, pepper and a 
little onion, bread crumbs and one egg well beaten, one table-spoon 
butter. Place in pan, and bake. 

Egg Plant, Fried, 
Slice plant, and lay in salt and cold water for an hour or two ; 
dredge with corn meal, and fry a light brown. 

Candied S-iveet Potatoes. 
Parboil six potatoes, peel, and slice ; sprinkle with brown sugar 
and butter and a little water. Bake until candied. 
Mashed S^veet Potatoes. 
Boil potatoes until tender ; mash, smooth, add butter, a little 
sugar, cinnamon, one teacup milk. Place in baking dish, and 
brown. 



21 

]Sa.kcd. Toma-toes. 

Scoop out the center of tomatoes, and dress them with a few- 
bread crumbs, a little sugar, salt, pepper, and little bit of onion. 
Place in shell of tomato, and bake. Tomatoes must not be too ripe. 

Spinach. 

Boil three heads of spinach until tender ; then place in flat 
dish, and pour a little melted butter over it ; slice hard-boiled eggs, 
and place on top ; salt and j^epper to taste. 

Twreiify Minutes' Cabbcig^c. 

Slice a hard cabbage in four parts, and put into boiling water; 
boil twenty minutes, and pour on melted butter ; salt and pepper ; 
serve. 

Cabbagfu Pudding^. 

Boil until tender one large cabbage, then remove from water, 
and fold back the outer leaves ; take the heart and chop fine with 
well boiled ham, bread crumbs, salt and pepper (black and red); 
place this in cabbage, and refold the leaves ; return to fire, and let 
boil thoroughly. 

Bell Peppers— to be Served W^ith Beef. 

Take half a dozen sweet bell peppers, and slice as you would a 
tomato, heart and all ; boil vinegar with salt and sugar ; when cold, 
pour over the peppers. 

To Boil Bice. 

Wash and pick thoroughly ; then place in boiling water with 
salt ; let boil for ten minutes, then pour off the water, and place on 
back of stove to steam. Shake the pot constantly. 

Baked Hominy. 

Boil hominy thoroughly; let cool; then beat in one eg^^, one 
cup milk, one table-spoon butter, a little salt. Bake light brown. 

Asparag-us. 

Boil till thoroughly tender; then drain, lay on toasted bread, 
and ])our over tliis melted butter, a little salt and pepper. 

Stew^ed Celery. 

One cup celery cnit into small pieces and boiled till tender, 
pour over this melted butter and salt and pepper. 



stuffed Bell Peppers Witli Shrimp. 

Remove the veins and seeds from the peppers, soak for seve- 
ral hours in salt and water ; then prepare a regular shrimp salad 
with Mayonnaise dressing — chop the shrimp quite fine; stuff the 
peppers, then sprinkle the top with cracker dust, and bake. 



CAKE RECEIPTS.- 



Sug'a.r Cookies. 

One pound butter, two pounds sugar, well creamed together ; 
two wine-glasses whiskey, two small nutmegs, yolks of three eggs 
well beaten, one tea-cup milk with light tea-cup of soda dissolved 
in it, then the whites beaten stiff, four pounds flour ; stir in half the 
flour, put the other half on rolling board open in the center, and 
put in dough ; work lightly with rolling pin. As soon as dough be- 
gins to crack, roll into cookies, and bake. 

Crullers. 

Three eggs, heaping table-spoonful of sugar to an egg ; one 
and one-half table-spoons of melted butter, tea-cup of milk, half a 
tea-spoon of soda, just flour enough to roll out, one nutmeg. 

Soft Oin^er Cake. 

One cup of sugar, one cup of butter, two of molasses, one cup 
of milk with tea-spoonful of soda dissolved in it, five cups sifted 
flour, heaping table-spoonful of ginger, one nutmeg. 

Virgiula. Spong^e Cake. 

Yolks of twelve eggs, whites often beaten separately and very 
stiff, one pound sugar mixed with yolks, then add whites, one tea- 
spoon of lemon juice and grated rind of one lemon; take the 
weight of six eggs in flour, and with a broad-bladed knife mix in 
very quickly ; put in oven, and put over cake-pan a pan with a 
little water; when cake rises to top of pan, take off pan of water, 
and let cake bake ten or fifteen minutes. 

Almond. Cake. 

One pound sugar, one pound butter, one pound flour, one dozen 
eggs and one pound blanched almonds. 



23 

White Fruit Cake. 

One pound sugar, three-fourths pound butter, one pound flour, 

whites of twelve eggs, one cocoanut grated, two pounds ahnonds 

blanched and cut fine, one pound citron cut fine ; use a Ijttle milk, 

if necessary. 

Fruit Cake, 

One pound of flour, one pound of loaf sugar, one pound of 

citron, four pounds raisins, four pounds of currants, two pounds of 

almonds, one dozen eggs, rose water, mace, cloves, cinnamon and 

brandy. 

:Ylarsliiiiallo^«r Cake. 

Three table-spoonfuls of gelatine soaked in a small cup of cold 
water one hour, then place it on the fire to dissolve, but don't add 
any more water ; remove from fire, beat three-fourths of a pound 
of pulverized sugar with it and the beaten white of one egg ; flavor 
to taste ; beat hard until quite stiff, then place in a well-greased 
pan which has been lined with a greased paper — place in same 
sized pan as your cake has been baked in. If the filling is made 
the day before the cake is, and set where it is cool, it will be much 
firmer and better. Use any plain cake receipt for this filling. 
Liemou Jelly for Cake. 

Four lemons, one pound sugar, one-fourth pound butter, six 
eggs, all beaten together ; put on fire until it thickens, then set on 
ice. Use juice of the four lemons, but the rind of only two. 
Cbocoiatc Cream Cake. 

One table-spoon melted butter, one cup sugar, two cups sifted 
flour, two eggs, two tea-spoons baking powder, half cup dessicated 
cocoanut. Filling : Melt two squares of chocolate, add two table- 
spoons of sugar and enough boiling water to make it thin enough 
to spread. Cocoanut can be left out. 

Chocolate Cake. 

One pound sugar, half pound butter, six eggs, one pound flour ; 
flavor with vanilla. Filling : One and one-half pounds sugar, heap- 
ing table-spoonful butter, and just milk enough to thoroughly mois- 
ten sugar; let this come to a boil, then add three-fourths of a cake 
of Baker's chocolate, grated or cut fine. When this becomes thick, 
and ropes in dropping from spoon, flavor with vanilla, and remove 
from fire, then beat hard for a few minutes. Spread on cake before 
it hardens. 



24 
Nut Cake, 

One cup of butter, two of sugar, three and one-half of flour, six 
eggs, one cup of milk. Boiled icing: One pound granulated sugar, 
water enough to cover sugar, put on fire and let boil without stirring 
or jarring, until it ropes in dropping from spoon. Have ready the 
well-beaten whites of three eggs ; pour the boiling S}rup slowly on 
the eggs, beating hard all the while, then flavor to taste with lemon 
and rose-water. Beat until cold. Take two pounds of English 
walnuts, reserve enough halves to spread on top of cake; pound the 
remainder fine, and mix them in about one-third of the icing, keep- 
ing the other two-thirds for top and sides. 

Cltocola,te l^^clairs. 

One phit water, half pound butter, three-fourths pound flour, 
ten eggs. Put water and butter on to boil, and when it comes to a 
boil add sifted flour, then remove from fire. Beat the eggs, yolks 
and whites together, very light, add one tea-spoon baking powder, 
and stir in dough when cool ; then drop in small quantities, about 
a tea spoonful, on pan lined with buttered paper, and put in oven to 
brown. Custard : One quart milk, two cups sugar, one cup flour, 
four eggs ; let milk come to a boil ; then add sugar, eggs and flour, 
well beaten together, and flavor with vanilla. When the pufls are 
done, cut with a sharp knife half around the bottom, and fill each 
one with custard. Chocolate for top : Take equal parts of sugar 
and chocolate, a little butter, and water enough to moisten sugar; 
let this boil until it becomes stringy ; flavor with vanilla. 

Ice Cream Cake* 

One cup butter, three of sugar, four of flour, whites often eggs, 
one cup milk, baking powder. 

Oraiig:e Cake. 

One cup butter, two of sugar, four eggs, three and one-half 
cups flour, one cup milk, two heaping tea-spoonfuls baking powder 
and the rind of one orange. Use boiled icing receipt only. Flavor 
with the juice of one small orange or half of a large one. 

Aiig'els' Food Cake. 

One and one-half cups sugar, sift once ; one cup flour, sift 
once; measure and sift five times ; one cup of eggs, whites beaten 
very hard and rapidly from start. Add sugar very gradually to 



25 

Avhites, then scant tea-spoonful almond extract, then flour sifted in 
gradually. Mix quickly, and get in oven at once. 

Crullers. 

One pound sugar, five eggs, one tablespoon butter, three table- 
spoons water, one-fourth table-spoon soda; add flour, roll thin, and 

fry in hot lard. 

Creole Kisses. 

To one pound of powdered sugar put six eggs and one tea- 
spoonful of vanilla. Do not beat eggs until after the sugar is add- 
ed, then beat hard until very light. Add one pound pecan nuts, 
and only stir enough to thoroughly mix nuts. Drop on ungreased 
paper, and bake in a cool oven. 

Mother's Crullers* 

Three eggs, one and one-half cups sugar, half cup milk, a tea- 
spoon of soda dissolved in a little vinegar, one spoon of butter, and 
flour enough to roll. Season lightly with vinegar, grated orange 
peel and cinnamon. Cut with a jagging-iron into squares, cutting 
these through the center into strips. Fry in boiling lard. 



— DESSERTS. — 

C'rea.xn Meriug'ue Puddiugr. 

One quart cream, three lemons, sugar to taste, twelve mer- 
ingues ; whip the cream, which should be cold, stiff; mix the sugar 
and lemon juice together, whip it in gradually with the cream ; 
spread on a flat dish ; arrange the meringue over the top. Keep 
in the ice box until eaten. 

Old-Fasbioiicd. Cream C]ia.rlottes. 

One quart cream, one ounce Russian isinglass (it can be pro- 
cured at any drug store), one pint rich white custard without sugar. 
Churn the cream with a syllabub churn, and as you skim it put it 
on sieve to drip. Dissolve the isinglass in a cup of boiling water. 
Let it be lukewarm when you use it. Set a tin bucket in a pan of 
ice. When very cold, pour in your custard, and beat into it alter- 
nate spoonfuls of churned cream, isinglass, sugar and vanilla, until 
it gets quite light and stiff. Pour into a mold previously lined with 
sponge cake, and set immediately on ice. 



26 

Kock Cream. 

One pint milk, three eggs, three-fourths cup of sugar, lemon 
extract, one-third box of Cox's gelatine. Soak the gelatine in just 
enough cold water to cover it, for an hour or two ; put the milk to 
boil ; rub the yolks and the sugar together till very light ; beat the 
whites. When the milk boils, add the gelatine, then the yolks and 
the sugar ; let it boil a few minutes, then remove from the fire and 
add the flavoring and beat in the v.-hites. Pour immediately into a 
quart tin jelly mold ; set on ice. When turned out it will be in three 
layers — one of jelly, one of custard, and one of the froth whites. 
Lemon Cream. 

Four eggs, one lemon, six table-spoonfuls of powdered sugar. 
Take the yolks, juice and grated rind of one lemon and four table- 
spoonfuls of sugar. Cook together in a custard boiler, stirring con- 
stantly until it is thick as custard. Beat in the whites, previously 
beaten to a froth, with two table-spoonfuls of sugar. Take from the 
fire, and place in a dish to cool. When ready for serving, surround 
the dish with lady -fingers, and pour the mixture in ; or it can be 
served without the cake. 

Baked Custard. 

One quart milk, four eggs, one cup sugar, half teaspoon ful salt, 
nutmeg. Boil the milk, beat the eggs very light, and add the sugar 
and salt. Pour on the milk very slowly, stirring constantly. Bake 
in a pudding dish or cups — if in cups, set them in a baking pan 
half filled with boiling water. Grate nutmeg over each. The se- 
cret of a good custard is in slow baking and the most careful watch- 
ing. Test often with a knife-blade, and do not bake an instant after 
the blade comes out smooth and clean. To be eaten cold. 

Rice Pudding. 

One-half cup of rice, boiled in a quart of milk, well beaten af- 
ter it begins to' boil ; yolks of three eggs beaten with a cup of sugar 
in the pudding dish ; grate the rind of one lemon into the rice, and 
add the juice of half a lemon ; turn rice into the eggs and beat well 
together ; beat the white to a froth. Sugar to taste, and add juice 
of the other half lemon. Brown in oven. 

Wine Jelly. 

One box gelatine (Nelson's), two lemons, one pint best sherry, 
two large sticks cinnamon, two eggs. Soak the gelatine for one 



27 

hour in a pint of cold water. Put one pint of water to boil with the 
cinnamon, egg shells, lemon juice and rind, and sugar to taste, 
When it boils, pour in dissolved gelatine, and stir until it is thor- 
oughly dissolved, add beaten whites, and let it boil twenty minutes, 
then add the wine and let it boil once more. Take it off and strain 
it through a pointed flannel jelly-bag. If the weather is very cold, 
a half pint more water may be added. Set in the ice box to jell. 

Bread. a,itd. Butter Puddiiigr. 

Cut thin slices of bread and butter, lay by layers in a deep 
dish, sprinkling each layer with currants until the dish is full. Then 
fill up with this mixture : One quart milk, six eggs, six table-spoon- 
fuls white sugar. Flavor with lemon, orange or vanilla. Put in the 
oven to bake a light brown on top. 

Plum Pudding. 

One pound raisins, one pound currants, half pound citron, one 
pound suet, one pound sugar, one pound bread crumbs or half 
pound bread and half pound flour, ten eggs, a httle salt, cinnamon, 
mace and nutmeg to suit taste. Mix the fruit well with flour sprink- 
led over, and mix the whole with a bottle of porter. Boil six hours. 

JLemon Pudding. 

Five eggs, three-fourths pound sugar, one-fourth pound butter, 
the crumbs of one loaf of stale bread, and two lemons. Mix the 
butter and sugar together, add the yolks of the eggs, well beaten, 
and the bread crumbled fine, then the juice and grated peel of the 
lernons. After this is baked, have ready the whites of the eggs 
beaten to a stiff froth, to which add one extra cup of powdered su- 
gar. Lay smoothly on the top of the pudding, and put in the oven 
to brown slightly. 

Batter Pudding. 

Five eggs, eight table-spoonfuls sifted flour, one quart milk, 
one teaspoonful salt, one half saltspoonful soda. Bake in cups, 

Rice Custard. 

Half pound rice, half pound raisins or currants, six ounces pow- 
dered sugar, a quart rich milk, half ounce cinnamon broken in 
pieces. Boil the rice with raisins or currants, which must first be 
floured. Boil the milk with the cinnamon. As soon as it comes 
to a boil, take it off and strain it through a sieve. Set it back 



28 

on the fire, and stir into it alternately the eggs and sugar, taking it 
off frequently and stirring to prevent it from curdling. When done, 
set it away to cool. Turn the rice out of the cups or molds into a 
deep dish, pour some of the custard over it, and serve up the re- 
mainder of the custard in a sauce boat. 

Fruit Pudding:. 

Two cups flour, one cup sugar, one cup butter, two eggs, one 
and a half tea-spoonfuls baking powders, one cup milk. Any kind 
of fruit or berry mixed with this and baked in the oven with sauce. 

Peacli Pie. 

Make one rich crust and bake it, laying a folded towel in the 
plate at first, to prevent the crust from puffing too much. Stew a 
can of peaches in their own syrup, adding more sugar if necessary, 
then fill the empty crust. Beat the whites of three eggs very stiff, 
and add three table- spoonfuls pulverized sugar and a little bitter 
almond extract. Put back in the oven till the meringue is well set. 

Pj-uue Pudding. 

After washing one pound of cooking prunes, soak them in one 
quart of water for a few hours, then put them on to boil in the water 
in which they were soaked, and boil until the stones separate from 
the pulp ; then take from the fire and rub through a colander. Beat 
in a tea-cup of white sugar, a little vanilla and the beaten whites of 
five eggs. Pour into a buttered dish, and bake in a quick oven. A 
boiled custard, made out of the five yolks and a pint of milk, goes 
with this pudding as a sauce. 

Orange C'liariotte. 

One-fourth box gelatine in one-fourth cup of cold water. 
Let soak until soft, then one-fourth cup of boiling water. Use a 
half-pint cup for measuring. When the gelatine is thoroughly dis- 
solved in hot and cold water, strain ; then add one cup of white 
sugar, juice of one lemon, one cup of orange juice with pulp. Be 
careful not to put in any of the thin skin around the pulp. Let 
stand until it nearly congeals, then beat the whites of three eggs 
very stiff, beat all of the ingredients together, then put some in the 
bottom of your dish, then a layer of lady-fingers (split), then the 
remainder of charlotte. Serve with whipped cream or boiled 
custard. 



29 
Rice Puddingy. 

Quarter pound each of rice, butter and sugar, a pint and a half 
of milk or cream and milk, six eggs, teaspoonful mixed spice, mace, 
nutmeg and cinnamon, or half wine-glass rosewater. Boil the rice 
until it is very soft, drain it and set away to cool. Stir the butter 
and sugar together until very light, add to it the spice and rose- 
water ; beat the eggs very light and stir them gradually into the 
milk, then stir the eggs into the butter and sugar, alternating with 
the rice. 

Blackberry Dumpling'. 

Make a rich crust, and lay one layer of crust and one of black- 
berries, sprinkle sugar over, then another layer of crust and one 
of blackberries. Roll the mass, place in a pudding-bag, place in 
boiling water, and boil an hour and a half. 

Liemoit TTIeriiig-ue Pie. 

]\Iake a thin short crust ; the grated rind of two lemons, four 
eggs stirred well together ; put on and let boil. While boiling, add 
the juice of one lemon, and stir in two table-spoonfuls flour. Place 
crust and this filling in pie pan : the whites of two eggs well beaten 
and four table-spoonfuls pulverized sugar. Place this in the oven, 
and let brown. 

Sitow Pudding. 

One ounce gelatine in pint cold water ; soak twenty minutes, 
then pour in two pints boiling water and juice of two lemons, and 
add five small cups of sugar. Let stand until cold. Whip the 
whites of ten eggs, beat all together until it is well mixed. ]\Iake a 
rich custard of the yolks and pour over it. 

Pie Crust. 

One pint flour, two table-spoonfuls lard, pinch of salt, one table- 
spoonful butter. Mix with ice water, using a fork. Mix dough 
stiff. Roll thin. 

Potato Pudding. 

Three eggs, three sweet potatoes (n6t large), four table-spoon- 
fuls powdered sugar, one table-spoonful brandy or wine, nutmeg 
according to taste, one-third pound raisins, one tea-spoonful butter, 
one-half pint milk. Then bake. 



30 

Almond. S'tveetmea.ts. 

One and a half quarts milk, one pound almonds (beaten in a 
mortar until a powder), one pound block sugar. Boil milk and su- 
gar until very thick, then add the almonds and boil to a paste. 

Cocoaiiut Pie. 

Four cocoanuts grated fine ; weigh them ; use the same weighl 
of white sugar, with about three table-spoonfuls of butter rubbed up 
in it, ten eggs well beaten, and nearly a quart of cream, the juice 
of one and the grated rinds of two lemons. If not quite sweet enough, 
add more sugar. This quantity makes seven pies, and the paste 
used is made of one pound of butter and two pounds of flour. 

Rice PuddiiiGT* 

Two heaping tablespoonfuls of boiled rice. Stir in while hot 
half a table-spoonful of butter, five table-spoonfuls sugar, four eggs 
beaten quite light, and a quart and a half of milk. Put in two or 
three whole sticks of cinnamon, grate nutmeg on the top, and bake 
it one hour. 



— ICES. — 

Stra,-«vlierry SHerbet. 

To one quart of berries mashed through a fruit strainer add 
one quart of water, the juice of one lemon, and sweeten to taste. 
Freeze. 

Milk Sherbet, 

Three lemons, one quart milk, half pound sugar, the white of 
one egg. Boil the milk, pour it over the rind of the lemons and 
sugar, let stand until cold, then drain arid put in the churn. Just 
before removing the dasher add the juice of the lemons and the 
white of the egg beaten stiff. 

Piiiea,pi»lc Stierbet. 

Take two fine ripe pineapples, and peel them. Take a strong 
fork and shred all the eatable parts into a bowl. Add the juice of 
one large lemon. Add to this a pound and a half of sugar. Pour 
over all five parts of boiling water. Stir well, and when cold strain 
through a coarse cloth, and freeze an hour before dinner. 



31 
Liemoit SlierbeS. 

Nine lemons, pound and a half of sugar, three and a half 
quarts water. Wash the lemons, and take off the thin outer rind. 
Put the sugar with the rind, and pour over this the water (which 
must be boiling). Let this stand until cold, then add the lemon 
juice, and strain all together. Then freeze. 

ESlaclkberry Ice. 

Put in a kettle two quarts of berries, half a pint of water and 
one cup of sugar. Scald, and strain through a cloth. Then add 
three pints of water, juice of six lemons. Sweeten to taste, and 
freeze. 

Ca.raniel Ice Cream. 

One cup of brown sugar, two cups of white, two quarts of milk, 
one pint of cream, one table-spoonful vanilla. Put the milk to boil, 
and brown the sugar to chocolate color, then pour in a little of the 
boiling milk to thin it. Then to the white sugar add the rest of the 
boiling milk, and to this add the caramel preparation. When cold 
add the cream (whipped) and vanilla. 

Bisque Ice Cream* 

Half pound macaroons, three quarts milk, three eggs, about 
one gill sherry wine, one and a half pounds sugar. Brown maca- 
roons in the oven, and then crush them with a rolling-pin ; pour the 
wine over them (making a paste), add the sugar. Mix one table- 
spoonful corn starch with the eggs, and stir into the milk when it 
comes to a boil. The milk must be cold before mixing with the 
macaroons. 

Straw^berry Ice Cream. 

Two quarts milk, one quart berries, one quart thick cream. 
Wash and pick the berries, put into a bov/1 and cover with sugar a 
little while before ready for use. When ready to use, mash through 
a fruit-strainer, add to this the cream and milk, and sweeten to 
taste. 

Velvet Cream Iced. 

One and a half ounces gelatine or isinglass, one and a half 
cups of wine poured over gelatine, one lemon rind and juice. Let 
stand for one hour, then add three-fourths of a pound white sugar. 
Place over the fire in a double boiler, and stir until gelatine and 



32 

sugar are dissolved. When cool, pour in one quart of cream, beat 
hard while pouring in, and, when as thick as custard, freeze. 

Or, one box Nelson's gelatine, one pint of wine, one lemon, 
rind and juice, two pounds of sugar, and three quarts mixed cream 
and milk. 

Coffee lee C'resftiii. 

Two quarts milk, one large cup ground coffee. Put into the 
milk, and let come to a good boil. Six eggs beaten lightly. Sweet- 
en to taste, then strain. Just before putting in churn add one pint 
of well beaten cream. It must be cold before putting in the churn. 

PRESERVES AND PICKLES. 

Artichoke Yelloiv Pickle. 

For a two gallon jar use a large bottle of mustard, about one 
pint and-a-half of sweet oil, about four tablespoonfuls of powdered 
spice.mace, allspice, nutmegs and a few cloves, four tablespoonfuls of 
brown sugar, a pound of white mustard seed, not quite an ounce 
of Tumeric, a little chopped garlic, half a pound or more grated 
horse-radish ; vinegar enough to reduce it to a thinnish paste. All 
these ingredients are to be mixed up like salad dressing, and 
poured over the artichokes. The jar is then covered with a plate^ 
and boiled in water for five or six hours. Too much vinegar is 
not good. Dilute it with water if too sharp. 

Green Tomato Pickle, 

One gallon of green tomatoes, sliced and sprinkled with salt, 
let them stand twelve hours, then pour off the water ; add one 
pound of brown sugar, one tablespoonful of cloves, one of allspice; 
beat up, one cup of mixed mustard, six or eight onions, sliced, half 
cup celery seed, mace, one spoonful black pepper, six green pep- 
pers, chopped fine, one-half pint grated horse-radish. Beat and 
mix the spices. Put the tomatoes and spices alternately in a skil- 
let ; cover with vinegar, boil until tender ; add two large spoonfuls 
of sweet oil. 

Pepper Pickles. 

Let the peppers lay in salt and water one day and night ; make 
a filling of mustard-seed, onions, cloves, mace, allspice, cinnamon, 
ginger and a little cucumbers. After filling the peppers, sew them; 
lay them in a jar and cover them with vinegar. 



33 
Cabbage Pickle. 

Cut the cabbage in four pieces, lay them in strong salt and 
water over night, scald them three successive days in salt-water, 
each day ; adding more salt to the same water. Cover the bot- 
tom and sides of kettle with cabbage leaves, and fill with strong 
vinegar,' and boil until you can pass a straw through the stalk, 
after which make a seasoning of horse-radish, mustard seed, celery 
seed, cloves, spice, pepper and little sugar. Mix these in cold 
vinegar, and pour over the whole. 

Mang^oes. 

The proper cucumbers to be used for this purpose are those of 
the largest sort, which must be taken from the vines before they are 
too ripe or yellow, the young mushmellon is better. Put them in 
strong salt and water, three or four days. Stir well every day, then 
put them in a kettle with same salt and water, with vine leaves 
over and under, and a little rock alum ; set them over a very slow 
fire for five hours. When very green take them out and drain them 
well, then boil some vinegar and pour over them hot. The next 
day drain them well again. Cut a piece out of side and take out 
seeds with a teaspoon or apple scraper ; dry them well with a towel, 
and put in the following stuffing : Horseradish, mustard-seed, 
garlic, pepper- corns, mace, cloves, allspice, some cabbage, cut up 
fine. When full take the piece that was cutout and sew it on ; boil 
a sufficient quantity of fresh vinegar, and pour on the mangoes hot; 
tie them down close. 

Siwanip Plum Preserves, 

One-and-a-half pounds of sugar to one pound of plums, one- 
half pint of water to every pound of sugar. Thoroughly scald the 
plums, until they begin to burst, then take them out of the kettle, 
and put them in a bucket of cold water. Let them remain until 
cold, then put them back into the kettle. Use the water that they 
were scalded in for making the syrup, as it has already so much acid. 

Peach Marmalade. 

One pound of sugar to a pound of peaches, with a half pint 
of water; put the kernals in water ai^ boil until they are tender. 
Then add the sugar, skim it well, and boil until clear, which will 
be in a few minutes. After putting the marmalade in jars, wet a 
piece of paper with brandy and lay on top. 



34 
Pine Apple I?Ia.riiialade. 

Grate the pine apple, then weigh them, allowing one pound of 
sugar to one pound of fruit. Strain the juice from the pulps ; add 
sugar to the juice, which boil to a thin syrup, then put in the pulps 
and boil slowly until it looks clear. 

Pea.cb. Preserves, 

Weigh the fruit, and to every pound allow one pound of 
sugar. Dissolve the sugar in as little water as will do it, put it on 
the fire and let it come to a good boil, and strain it. Then return 
it to the kettle, and as soon as it comes to a boil, drop in the fruit. 
Let them cook for a short time ; take out the fruit on dishes — set 
them in the sun till quite cool, then return them to kettle, repeat 
this three times ; boiling syrup all the while. When the fruit is 
done, let the syrup boil until thick. Cook all preserves quickly. 
Cook them until clear, not until thoroughly done, for they must be 
cooked in the sun. The peaches must be spread cut on dishes 
with a little syrup on them, the rest of syrup kept in a bowl. The 
peaches must be turned over, piece by piece ; adding a little syrup 
constantly. Two days in this way, with a hot sun will do. Let the 
peaches get perfectly cold after being in the sun, before putting in 
jars. 

Q,uiiice Preserves. 

Pare and core quinces the same as peaches, put them ia cold 
water and boil until they begin to look clear, then make your syrup 
with one half pint of water to every pound of sugar, preserve as 
peaches. 

Ogeechee L.ii»cs Preserves. 

Cut off the ends, par-boil in two waters, in the first put a 
small piece of 'alum. To one pound of limes add one and one- 
fourth pounds of sugar, boil together over a slow fire, until they are 
clear and tender ; take them out, boil the syrup until thick. Put 
the limes back and let them warm through again. 



35 



BREAD. 

Rolls. 

One cup luke-warm milk, one egg, one-half yeast cake, one 
tablespoonful pulverized sugar. Mix the whole together, making 
a batter, put the same to rise ; when risen, add flour until you have 
a dough, which you must knead well, then make the rolls, and put 
them to rise again, when risen bake in a hot oven. 

Sally I^unn. 

Three tablespoons of pulverized sugar, one-and-a-half cup flour, 
three eggs, two tablespoons of butter, one-half yeast cake ; mix 
and make a stiff batter, put the same to rise. When risen bake in 
a quick oven ; the eggs must be beaten separately. 

Hypocrites; 

One pint of milk, four eggs, beaten separately, one pint of 
flour ; bake fifteen minutes in a hot oven. Put the whites in last. 

French Bolls and Twists. 

One pint milk, one-half teaspoon salt, one yeast cake ; flour 
to make a stiff batter. Set it to rise ; when light, work in one egg, 
one tablespoonful butter, knead in flour, stiff enough to roll, let it 
rise ; when light, roll out, cut in strips ; bake thirty minutes on but- 
tered tins. Make up all raised bread with sugar, one tablespoon- 
ful to one pint flour. 

Panizette Corn Bread. 

One quart meal, well-washed and wrung, one teacup of cold or 
hot hominy, mixed thoroughly, two well beaten eggs, one table- 
spoon of lard, mixed into a thick batter with milk, a little salt, and 
baked in a quick oven. 

Bro^irn Bread. 

One quart rye flour, one pint Indian meal, one handful white 

flour, one cup molasses. Beat in molasses two teaspoons soda, 

one quart sour milk, one teaspoonful salt. Steam six hours ; 

brown in oven. 

Home-made Crackers, 

One pint flour, one heaping tablespoonful lard, one teaspoon- 
ful baking powder, little salt ; water enough to make a stiff doughy 
roll thin ; cut and bake in a hot oven. 



36 
Puffs. 

One-half pint milk, one half pint flour, two eggs. Beat the 
eggs very light ; add gradually the flour and milk, and little salt ; 
grease very thoroughly, twelve muffin pans, and divide the mixture 
into them ; bake in hot oven. 

Cheese Stra.vvs. 

One cup of flour, one cup grated English dairy cheese, that 
has become dry from keeping, one large spoonful of butter and 
same of lard ; a saltspoon of salt, and one-half saltspoon of cayenne 
pepper. Mix the dough with ice water, and roll very thin ; cut in 
even strips, half inch wide ; bake in oven. 

Wafers. 

Butter half the size of an egg, one cup of sifted flour, one cup 

of milk. Beat butter, flour, and a little salt together. Bake in thin 

wafer irons. 

l¥affles. 

One teacup of hominy, one teacup of flour, one dessert spoonful 

of lard, two eggs, one teaspoonful baking powder ; make a thin 

batter with water. 

Beaten Biscuits. 

One quart flour, one large tablespoonful lard, mixed with inilk 

to make a stiff dough. Beat until it blisters ; roll out and cut; bake 

in a hot oven. 

Bread.. 

Four quarts of flour, one large tablespoonful of lard, four 

tablespoonfuls sugar, one yeast cake, one teaspoonful salt. Make 

a stift dough with w^arm water, knead thoroughly ; set to rise about 

six hours, then knead lightly with a little flour ; make into rolls or 

loaves ; set to rise again, when risen, bake. 

Neivport Tea Bread. 

One pint flour, two tablespoonfuls of sugar, one tablespoonful 
of butter, two eggs, one cup of milk, one teaspoonful cream of tar- 
tar, one half teaspoon of soda. 

Rice Bread. 

Boil one pound of whole rice in milk enough to dissolve all the 
grains ; adding it boiling as it is absorbed. Have four pounds of 
sifted flour in a pan, and into this pour the rice and milk ; adding 
salt and a wine-glassful (large), of brewers yeast ; knead and set to 
rise till light. Form into loaves and bake. 



37 

Rice \raffles. 

One cupful boiled rice, three cupfuls flour, three eggs, one tea- 
spoonful soda, and a piece of lard or butter, the size of a walnut. 
The ingredients must all be prepared separately. Be sure to beat 
your eggs very light. See that every particle of soda is thoroughly 
dissolved, and that after it is added the baking be not long delayed. 
This batter may be used in [waffle irons, or else baked like flannel 
cakes upon the open griddle. 

Homiuy Muffins. 

Two cups of fine hominy, boiled and cold ; beat it briskly, and 
stir in three cups of sour milk, half a cup of melted butter, two 
teaspoonfuls of salt and two tablespoonful of white sugar. Then 
add three eggs, well beaten, one teaspoonful of soda dissolved in 
hot water, and one large cup of flour ; bake quickly. 

Rice Bread. 

Two tablespoon fuls of cold hominy, two eggs beaten separately, 
one pint of rice flour, one tablespoonful ofbutter, one-half teaspoon- 
ful of soda and acid each. As much milk as will wet the dough 
sufficiently ; beat all the ingredients thoroughly together. Put into 
a pan, a little fire at first to make it rise, then increase the heat for 
baking. 

Moonshines. 

To one pint of flour put one cup of milk, one teaspoonful of 
butter, one-half teaspoon of yeast powder and a little salt. Roll 
very thin, and cut to suit the fancy. 

Qerman Bread. 

To one-half pound of butter, put two pounds of flour, six eggs, 

beaten separately, one-fourth pound of sugar, and one cup of yeast. 

Corn Bread; 

One pint of corn flour, one pint of milk, three eggs, one 

tablespoonful of melted butter, one teaspoonful tartaric acid, one 

teaspoonful soda. 

Sally I^unn itirithout Veast, 

One quart of flour, one teacup ofbutter, salt to taste, two eggs, 
beaten separately, one pint of sweet milk ; melt the butter, stir well 
to the yolks, then the white beaten alternately, flour and milk. One 
spoonful of soda and two of cream of tartar, or two heaped tea- 
spoonfuls of yeast powder. Grease a pan, bake and serve im- 
mediately. 



38 

— DRINKS. 

Raspberry Viueg'a.r. 

Cover two quarts of berries with one quart vinegar, let it stand 
twenty-four hours, then strain it ; to every pint of juice one-half 
pound of sugar; put tt in a stone jar, and let it stand in boihng 
water until the sugar is entirely dissolved. Then take off the 
scum carefully and bottle it for use. 

Sbrub. 

Put one-half gallon of sour orange juice, one-half gallon of 
good brandy, one-half gallon ot good Jamaica rum into a large jar 
or demijohn ; add seven pounds of brown sugar. Let it stand for 
a few days — shaking it now and then. After that run it through a 
flannel bag or thin napkin ; put it into bottles at a window, where 
the sun shines, and as it clears put into clean bottles. 

Orang^e Cordia.1. 

The peel of five oranges, cut, thin ; with one gallon of whisky, 
five pounds of sugar ; remain standing three or four months. 
Strain through letter paper, and bottle. 

Blackberry TITiiie. 

Bruise large, ripe berries, and to every eight quarts pour one 
gallon of boiling water. Let it stand twenty-four hours; strain and 
squeeze through a coarse towel. To every gallon of juice add three 
pounds of brown sugar; pour when well-mixed into a keg or demi- 
john ; put over the mouth a piece of thin muslin. Let it stand for 
seven months to ferment, then draw off and bottle. 

Pousse Ca,£e. 

Curacoa, chartreuse, maraschino and anisette, equal quanti- 
ties. One resting distinctly upon the other, and the whole topped 
by brandy ; forming a beautiful combination, and affording the 
illusion of a draught of liquid rainbow. 

C'liianipa.g»c Puncli. 

One quart of champagne, one-half pint of brandy, one-half 
pint of rum, one cup of strong tea (green) ; juice and lind of two 
lemons. Mix sugar, tea, lemon, brandy and rum together, twelve 
hours before using ; add the champagne and a large lump of ice 
just before using. 



39 
Egg Nog. 

Beat the yolks of six eggs, with one-half cup of sugar, then 
add one-half pint of brandy, and the white of six eggs brought to 
a froth. 

Sa,uteriie Puiicli. 

Pare a lemon very thin; and over the peel pour one wine-glass 
Santa Cruz rum, then add one quart of Sauterne, sugar to taste, and 
serve with plenty of ice. 

Russia,it Tea. 

A pot of well drawn, mixed tea, three lemons, one-half pint of 
brandy, sugar and water to taste. 

Citocola,tc. 

Grate one-half cake chocolate ; make a smooth paste of it 
with a little cold water, then place it upon the fire, stir in a pint of 
milk and one-half pint of water ; add sugar to taste. 

Soda. Ijeinona.de. 

To the juice of one lemon add four teaspoons of sugar, one- 
half teaspoon of cooking soda, then fill your tumbler with water. 



TO SERVE EGGS. 

Puffed Omelette* 

Six eggs, yolks and whites beaten separately ; one tablespoon- 
ful of flour mixed with a small cup of cream or milk. Put salt and 
pepper to taste, pour the mixture into a very hot, buttered pan ; 
cook three or four minutes — fold and serve on a hot dish. 

Cbeese Omelette. 

Four eggs, two tablespoonfuls of milk, salt and pepper. When 
it begins to thicken add a half cupful of grated cheese. Ham, 
chicken, or jelly can be used as the cheese. 

Poached Eggs^ 

Break and drop one at a time into salted, boiling water, taking 
care to keep the yolk whole. Serve on toasted squares of bread ; 
put melted butter on each slice, then the egg, and sprinkle with 
salt and pepper. 



40 

Creamed. £g'g^8. 

Have six hard boiled eggs and one pint of cream sauce. Place 

slices of toast on a hot dish, and over them pour one-half the sauce. 

Slice then the whites and grate the yolks of the eggs ; place on the 

toast, and pour over remainder of sauce ; put in oven a few 

minutes ; garnish with parsley and serve. Should be in large 

flakes of mingled white and yellow, and as delicate as baked 

custard. 

Boiled. £g°gs.. 

Put them on in cold water, and when it has boiled the eggs will 

be done. To boil hard, cook twenty minutes. 

Scrambled. Eg'gs; 

Put one-half cup of sweet milk, one tablespoonful of butter, 
salt and pepper in a deep pan. When this is nearly to boiling 
point, drop in the eggs, (six). With a spoon gently scrape the 
mixture up from the bottom of the pan, as it cooks. Take from 
the stove before it has quite all thickened. 

Stuffed Eggs, 

Cut in two six hard boiled eggs; remove the yolks, mash fine; 
add some cold chicken, chopped fine, a tablespoonful of butter, a 
little minced parsley or onion, salt and pepper. Mix well, fill the 
eggs and put together ; roll in beaten egg and bread crumbs. Fry 
in boiling lard until brown. 

Escaloped Eg^g^s. 

Mix equal parts minced ham and fine bread crumbs, season 
with salt and pepper, and melted butter ; adding enough milk to 
make soft fluff; fill buttered gem-pans with this mixture ; break an 
Ggg upon the top of each, dust with salt and pepper. Spi inkle on 
fine cracker crumbs, and bake eight minutes. Serve immediately. 

— CANDY. — 

Chocolate Caramels. 

Three pounds brown sugar, one cake Baker's chocolate, one 
cup milk. Let this boil till a little hardens when dropped into cold 
water. Remove from fire, and stir in one heaping tablespoon of 
butter; flavor to taste with vanilla. Keep up a constant stirring 
during the boiling. 



41 
Taffy Candy. 

One-fourth pound of butter, three fourth pound of brown sugar, 
two ounces of molasses ; flavor to taste, with ginger, nutmeg or 
lemon. Do notstirthis candy while boiUng. 

Cocoanut Taffy. 

One pound of light brown sugar, or white granulated sugar, 
one quart of good molasses, one-half pound of butter. Let this boil 
until it hardens in cold water. Then stir in one grated cocoanut. 
Grease your biscuit board or marble slab, and pour the taffy on. 
Then pour over it a small quantity of lemon essence. When 
nearly;cold cut into squares. 

Sug^ar Candy. 

Six cups of sugar (powdered or granulated). Two cups of 
water, one cup of vinegar, one tablespoonful of butter. Boil 
without stirring. When it hardens in cold water, pour into a but- 
tered dish. Begin pulling as soon as it can be handled ; using 
only the tips of fingers pull rapidly. Do not grease your hands. 

Peanut Candy. 

To two pounds of sugar add one tumbler of water, one table- 
spoonful of butter; boil, stirring constantly. Just before taking otT 
stir in a pint of parched and pounded peanuts, (measured after 
prepared). Drop with a spoon upon a buttered dish or a slab. 

Jflolasses Candy. 

Dissolve one cup of light brown sugar in a half a cup of 
vinegar; mix these with one quart of molasses, (not syrup). Boil 
until it hardens, when dropped from the spoon into a cup of cold 
water; then stir in a tablespoonful of butter and one teaspoonful of 
soda, dissolved in hot water. Give one final stir and pour into but- 
tered dishes ; pull until white, using only tips of fingers. After 
pulling spread on biscuit board, and when cold cut into small 

pieces. 

Frenclk Candy. 

Take the white of an egg, the same quantity of water as egg, 

(measured in half an egg shell). Stir in one-and-a-half pound of 

confectioners sugar ; cook well until it becomes like dough. Shell 

one pound English Walnuts. Place a half of nut on each side of 

a small piece of the dough, flavored to taste with vanilla. Dried 

figs or dates may be used in the same way. 



42 

Cl&ocola.te Creams. 

Boil two cups sugar with one of water, about ten minutes ; 
flavor with vanilla, and beat till cool ; melt three- fourth cake of 
chocolate in top of tea-kettle and dip the balls in it. 
Nug'a.tiiie Candy. 

The filling for French candy is used for this, flavored with 
vanilla. Stir in nuts of all kinds, (chopped well). Flatten the 
mass and cut in squares. 

Cocoanut Drops. 

Grate the meat of one cocanut ; add to it one quart of pul- 
verized sugar, the frothed whites of two eggs, and the milk from 
the cocoanut, mix all together, and with the hands make into little 
drops. In a short time these will be dry and firm enough to eat. 
They require no cooking. 

Ma,illa,rd's Cbocolate Caramels. 

Two cups of grated chocolate, two cups of brown suger, one 
cup of milk, one cup of molasses, one tablespoon of flour, a piece 
of butter, the size of an egg. Boil one hour, then butter a pan and 
pour it in ; cut it to your liking. 

Chocolate Caramels. 

One cake baker's chocolate, four cups of brown sugar, one cup- 
sweet milk, one tablespoonful butler, one-half cup of molasses, 
vanilla, and a little vinegar. Boil, stirring all the time. 
Peppermint l>rops. 

Three cups sugar (granulated), one-half cup luke warm water, 
two teaspoons peppermint, if the essence, or three or four drops of 
the oil. Put the sugar and water on to boil ; as soon as it reaches, 
the boiling point stir briskly. Remove one-half the quantity in 
a bowl, stir well, and diop on tins well buttered or a marble slab. 
Then take the rest and do the same way. 

Oround. Nut Candy. 

Four cups granulated sugar, two cups chopped ground nuts. 
Put the sugar in a saucepan over the fire, stirring constantly for fear 
of burning, as there is to be no water in it. Continue stirring till the 
sugar becomes syrup, immediately put in the nuts, stirring till tho_ 
roughly mixed, when at once pour out on a marble slab or a dish, 
previously buttered. It is better to pour as thin as possible, which 
is difficult, as is begins to harden so soon. 



Latest Designs 

Of 

%iish Footwea r | F^ncy Evcning Slippers. 

From the § And Width from A to E 

Leading Makers . | OUR specialties. 

Globe Shoe Store, 

169 Broughton St., Savannah, Ga. 



EDWARD LOVELL'S SONS, 

155 Broughton St., 

Savannah, Ga. t 

H/qRDWAIRE6rTlNW/IRE 



Fine Table and Pocket Cutlery, 
4* Garden Hose, 

Tile and Tools. 



MEMORANDA. 



The Mutual Co-operative Association, 

G. S. VAN HORNE. Agent. 

X 

HEADQUARTERS FOR STAPLE AND FANCY 

Groceries, 

FOREIGN AND DOMESTIC DELICACIES, 

WINES. — LIQUORS. — CIGARS. 

X 

Odd Fellows Hall, 

Barnard and State Streets, SAVANNAH, GA. 



The Leading Furniture and Carpet Dealers of the State. 

LINDSAY & MORGAN, 

165 and 167 Broughton Street, — SAVANNAH, GA. 

Our EIGHT Story Building is always crowded with the Choicest Designs and the 

best makes in every line of goods we handle. 

Our Specialties are 

Parlor, Chamber. Dining Room and Office 
^EE FURNITURE. 

Moquette, Velvet, Brussels and Ingrain 
CARPETS. ^EE 

Lace Curtains, Window Shades and Upholstery Goods. 

We are also Agents for the best makes of 

BICYCLES, TRICYCLES AND VELOCIPEDES. 

Competent 'Workmen and obliging Salesmen. Satisfaction guaranteed. Call on us 
on the Corner of Broughton and Barnard Sts. 



MEMORANDA. 






V. W. Dale. >1ki:it. W. Dixon, 



Dale, Dixon & Co. 

LUMBER MANUFACTURERS, 

All kinds and sizes for any kind of house, dock or 
ship building. 



n n 

Also a specialty for 

REFRIGERATORS, 

For families, and built to suit any corner in any ladies' house, and 

are the only Refrigerators with cold, dry air that keep 

any kind of meats, butter, preserves, etc., 

for days without becoming 

moist. 

— DALE, DIXON & CO. — 

SAVANNAH, GA. 



J JbJ^MrTnMr'B^yiirlrlH i 



MEMORANDA. 




Beef Specialist, 

Marketing of all Kinds. 

City Market, - - Savannah, Ga. 

A. S. NIOHOLS, 
FINE HATS AND SHOES, 

No. 128 Broughton Street, 

Savannah, Ga. 

ESTABLISHED 1868. 

JACKSON, IVIETZGER <& CO. 

145 Broughton Street, Savannah, Ga. 

DRY GOODS. 

Ladies and Children's Cloaks. Boys' Clothing. 

Ladies' Muslin Underwear. Gents' Furnishing Goods. 

Agents for Buttericks paper Patterns. 

established 1838. 
Chas. M, Gilbert. John H. Gilbert. 

C. rvr. OILBERT & CO. 

inFORTER5. 

Rio Cokkee. Liverf^ool Salt. 

Cuba N/Lolasses 

Sa-vanneih, - - Georgfa. 



MEMORANDA. 



THEUS BROS 

S. W. Cor. Bull and Broughton Streets. 

SAVANNAH, GA. 

The Most Reliable Place to Buy Your 

Drugs, Medicines, Toilet Articles, Perfumery, 

Soaps, and a Thousand and one Articles 
for Family Use, 

— IS AT — 

STRONG'S PHARMACY, 

COR. BULL AND PERRV ST. LANE. 

NEAR THE DE SOTC HOTEL. 

THE CITIZENS BANK, 

OF^ SAVANNAH. 



Oetpita,!, _ _ _ _ $500,000. 



OFFICERS: 

BRANTLEY A DENMARK President. 
MILLS B. LANE, Vice-President. GEO. 0. FREEMAN, Cashier. 

H.T MOORE. J.B. JOmNSON. 

MOORE iSc JOHNSON, 

Grain and Provision Brokers. 



CCNSIQNMENTS SOLICITED. 



93 Bay Street, Savannah, Ga. 



MEMORANDA. 



Millinery Goods. 

No 151 Broughton Street, 

SAVANNAH, GA. 



New York Office. 585 Broadway. 



J. K. LAKAR, 

Hatter and Men's Furnisher, 

DUNLAPS FINE HATS, MENS FINE SHIRTS AND NECKWEAR, 

PERRIN'S KID GLOVES. AND MEN'S FINE UNDERWEAR, 

No. ST Bull Street, 

Savannah, Ga, 



Thomas West & Co., 

[in liquidation ] 
Importers of and Dealers in 

HavJIand & Co.'s French China, Glas^ and Crockery, 

Reed & Bartons Fine Electro Plated Silverware, 

Table Cutlery, House Furnishing Goods, Etc. 

133 Broughton Street, 

Savannah. Ga. 



MEMORANDA. 



J. F. KoUoek. Thomas Screven. 

KOLLOCK & SCREVEN, 

Real Estate and Insurance Agents, 

92 Bay Street, 

Savannah, Ga. 



M. Y. &, D. I. MacINTYRE, 

COTTON FACTORS 



Commission Merchants, 

SAVANNAH, GA. 



SAVANNAH. 



OCEAN STEAMSHIP CO 

Great Southern Freight and Popular Passenger Route 
between 

NEW YORK, BOSTON, PHILADELPHIA, 

And Georgia, Florida, Alabaira. the South and Southeast. 
First-class steamers sail four times a week between New York and Savannah and 
weekly between Boston, Philadelphia and Savannah as per advertisement in New 
York, Savannah, Atlanta, Maeon and Jacksonville papers. By this route passengers 
avoid the heat and dust of all-rail transit, and enjoy meals served with elegance and 
other comfort incident to a sea voyage. 

For information, tickets and staterooms apply to agents at railroad depots, or 
C. G. ANDERSON, Agent, Savannah. 

R. L. WALKER, Agent, New Pier 35, North river. New York. 
RICHARDSON & BARNARD, Agents, Lewis Wharf, Boston. 
W. L. JAMES, Agent, 13 South Third St., Philadelphia. 
W. E. ARNOLD, Gen'l Trav. Pass'r Agent. 
B. R. PRICE, Soliciting Agent, Jacksonville, Fla. 



Jas. M. l>ixon. 



A. B. HULL Sc CO. 

Wnf/L-E^Rsm FLOUR, HAY, GRAIN, 

Staple and Fancy Groceries, 

AGENTS FOR THE HAZARD POWDER CO. 

No. 128 Bay and 128 River Streets, '.• SAVANNAH, GA. 



MEMORANDA. 



HEADQUARTERS FOR 

Stoves, Mantels, 

Ranges, Grates, 

Crockery, Tiling, 

Glassware, Gas and Oil Fixture; 

House Furnishing Goods. 



JAS. DOUGLASS, 30 Barnard Street. 



Wm. g. cooper, 

FINE GROCERIES, 

Importer of 

^aaines, teas and table delicacies. 
28 Whitaker Street. 

Savannah, Ga. 



COHEN BROS.,: 



Wholesale and Retail 



Butchers' Stalls. 

Dealers in all the Latest Table Novelties in Season. 

47 AND 48 City Market, 
Telephone 531. also TaylOR and DrAYTCN Sts. 

ANDREINA/ HANLEV, 

SAVANNAH. GA. 

Manufacturer of and Sole Agent for Georgia, Florida, South and North 
Carolinas and Alabama. 

KING'S ASBESTOS WINDSOR CEMENT, 

— FOR — 
PLASTERING NA^ALLS AND CEILINGS, 



MEMORANDA. 



FOR RELIABLE 



Hosiery. 

Gloves, 

F ans, 

L-aces, 

EZmloroideries, 

Rarasols, and 

Corsets, 



GO TO 



Gutman's 



LADIES! 

Attend to 



i 



— BIG SALE OF 



c. GRAY & SONS' i Dry Goods & Notions, 



Check Nainsooks, 2>2C. Figured Challies, 3c. 

Surah Silks reduced to 50c. 



C. GRAY &o SON, 

Lot of other bargain attractions space will not permit us to mention. 

HENRY HIRSCH, 

DEAtER IN 

Groceries, Fruits, Beef, Veal, Pork, Mutton, 

FISH, VEGETABLES AND POULTRY. 

Also Oysters and Game of all Kinds in Season. 

Macon and Drayton Sts., SAVANNAH, GA. 
Telephone 4.76. 



My wagon will call for youi 
orders if desired. 



SOLOMONS & CO. 

Wfeolesak and Retail Druggists, 



MARKET SQUARE, 



WE beg to call your attention 
to our stock of Dru<tS, 
Medicines, Chemicals & Toi- 
let Articles. 

Soda Water.— We manufac- 
ture our Soda Water from Pure 
Bi-('arb. Soda, (no marble dust). 
Our syrups are made from the best 
sugar (no so-called Rock Candy 
Syrup), and flavored with pu'e Fruit Juices. We are the only authorized parties 
in the city to make and sell Whipped Cream. No one else can dispense the 
genuine article. We are agents for Huyler's Celebrated Candy. 



BRANCH STOTE 92 BULL ST. 



Savannah, Ga. 



SOLOMONS & CO., Congress St. and Bull St. Branch. 



MEMORANDA. 



ELLIS, YOUNG & CO., J.ft-.?^J5b. 

Naval Stores Factors, 

And Dealers in 

Naval Stores Supplies. 
City Exchange Building, SAVANNAH, GA. 

POST OFFICE BOX 63. 



HULL & LATHROP, 

Savannah, - - Georgia. 



Baldwin Fertilizer Company, 

SAVANNAH, GA. 

MANUFACTURE ONLY "THE PUREST AND BEST QUALITY 

FERTILIZERS 



FOR ALL CROPS 



Correspondence sol-cited from all interested. 



JAS. T. STEWART <St SON, 

90 BAY STREET. 

General Cotton Brokers and Insurance Agents, 

REPRESENTING 

London and Lancashire Fire Insurance Co. 
•» 

Also Underwriters- Agency of Nzvv York. 



MEMORANDA.: 



Sunday School Kxchange, 



j^eligioLis Books, 
1^ Fancy Work, 

\ Fresh Caramels, 

Home-made Cake, 
Charlotte Russe, 
Jellies, 
And other dainties for the table on hand. 

Orders taken for Luncheon parties at the 
Sunday School Exchange, on Bull Street, under 
the management of the ladies of the independent 
Presbyterian Church, for the purpose of raising 
funds for rebuilding the edifice destroyed by fire. 



FOR 

- Coal or Wood - 

OF ANY KIND OR SIZE CALL ON 

D. R. Thomas, 

Office, 111 Bay Street, 

Wharfs foot of West Broad St. SAVANNAH, GA. 



Telephone 228. 



JAS. H. BAKER, 

Dealer in * 

FRESH MEATS OF THE FINEST KlNDS, 

Also 

[Pou/try, Fis/i afid Game in season. 
Cor. Barnard and Gaston, Streets, SAVANNAH, GA. 



MEMORANDA. 



Mcdonough & ballantyne, 

Iron Founder/ 6^ HflCHiNUTj, 

Blacksmiths and Boilermakers, 
PORTABLE AND STATIONARY ENGINES 

FOR SALE. 



ALSO DEALERS IN 



Mills and P/ 



UGAR lYIILLS AND r'ANS 



iUR Mills are made with best wrought iron 
shafts, turned true and guaranteed for one 
^ year. Also our pans are cast smooth and made ^ 

of best quality of iron, all of which we will sell 
at lowest market price. 



Orders Solicited. 



East Broad St., Savannah, Ga. 



MEMORANDA. 



The A. H. Pugh Printing Company, 



CINCINNATI, OHIO 



POSSESS 



Unrivaled Facilities 



General Printing 



Catalogue Work A Specialty. 



Correspondence Solicited. 



MEMORANDA. 



