


tr? 



014 519 238 9 y 



HoUinger Corp. 
pH8.5 



TX 728 
.B88 
Copy 1 




INDKX. 



Bread, Biscuit, Fritters, etc. 



Arrowroot Jelly Oct. 

Apple Float Feb. 



Apple Fritters Mar. lo "^A sauce Oct 

Baked Hominy Dec. 31 " Snow March 

Ilakin;,' Powder Bi-scuit Sept. 14 naked Apple Dumplings Feb 



Bath iiuns Au;;. 25 

Bolivars Nov. 21 

Boston Brown Bread March i8 

Bread Sauted April 14 

Breakf:ist dish Auc. 28 

Pa£fs Feb. q 

Brown Bread Brewis Sept. 26 

Burkwhc.it Cakes Nov. 4 

Buns Oct. 25 

Cheese Crackers April 28 

Fritters .June 21 

Straws Dec. 21 

Corn Bread Jan. 29 



Custard.. ...".. .r. .March 
Peach Dumplings. .Sept. 

Pears Aug 

Quinces Oct 



Fried Chicken April 30 Mushroom Sauce Jan. a? 

" Shad Roes May 12 Potato Salad May 20 

" Smelts Oct. 27 Salad Pot pourri July 11 

" Veal Cutlets March 20 Sardine Salad Aug. iq 

. , Frizzled Beef July j Sweet Potato Salad Oct. 30 , 

24 Hamburg Steak April 26 Thick Cream Sauce Jan. q 

11 Little Neck Clam Saute May 11 White Sauce March 31 

. I '■ Pigs in Blankets Feb. 5 Soups. 

■ Liver and Bacon.. ..._ Feb. ,0 Asp.-,raeus Soup May 24 



four Apples Jan. 6 Marketing for Fowl. Game. Sept. 30 S^v Iroth '^ Cv 28 

Banana Cream.. Sept. 2 Mock Duck Dec. 20 g*^'^>sou° M ay ,0 < 

„ ■• Icecream Sept. .0 Meat Pie Jan. .6 ^^^?s.ewPwith Dumplings: JaJI. '5 ' 

Bananas and Lemons.^ Dec. 17 Mutton Chops. . . .^. . .^ . . ... Feb. 27 j^,^^^ p^^„ ^^^ ........ Dec. t8 

2i ¥> ;i1„_ Cant 



.Aug. 28 



Whipped Cream Apr. 23 " CutletsauFromage.June 

Bavarian Cream April i6 Oyster Patties Nov. 24 pr"""c""'n 

Blackberries July 30 " Rolls Dec 2, cL^^^Soup 

Blanc-Mange April 21 Pot Roast Feb. i .. „ Julv 22 

. , BrownBetty April 6 Rabbit Pie Nov. 5 p =°"P,- - b' - 1 ii'l 

MufKns Jan. 10 Chocolate Blanc-Mange. .. .June 17 Ragoutof Veal Juneq i:-[f^?or„„dJr P Feb t 

Crullers Oct. .0 ■• i^e Cream Aug. 6 Raw Oysters Sept. 30 ^l^.n Pea Sotlo Jufv^ 

Cider Jelly Oct. 31 Roast ifieef .^. Nov. i, 5;;j^"stew .^i ! ! ! ' ! ! ! 1 ! Aug'^ 24 



Roast Beef Nov. 

;: P"5|5; "^Mn'v '" Macaroni Soup Sept. 21 

•• JSySerson-Toasiiiifep^. H MuUon Broth". Oct. 26 

Pork Nov. 



Turkey Feb. 

Veal May 



Mutton Uroth. 

Oyster Stew Feb. 

Potato Soup May 15 

Tomato Soup Jan. 21 

Turkey " Jan. 2 

Sundries. 
About Coffee May 31 



Crumb Muffins Nov. 

Crumpets ,. Oct. 13 Cucoanut 'Cream Drops Jan. 31 

Dip Toast Sept. 3 Cofiee Drops Jan. ^i 

Egtr Toast April 14 *' jelly May 31 

Graham Bread Jan. 13 Cranberry Jelly March 29 

Crackers Nov. 23 " Sauce Dec. 12 

Muffins Feb. 22 Cup Custard April 19 

Puffs May3 Currants Ju'y 7 Salmon Patties Feb. 13 

Hominy Cakes Feb. 11 Curried Rice June 14 ** Steak Dec. 2 

Oatmeal Gems Sept. 20 Custard.Souffle May 10 Salt Fish Balls Jan. 

Oyster Fritters Sept. 15 Frozen Peaches : Aug. 27 Sardine Sandwiches Nov. 30 Arrowroot Jelly Oct. 

Pandories Dec. 28 Fruit Preserving Sept. 30 Sauted Meat March 22 Barberry Jam Sept. 30 

Parker House Rolls March 23 " Sago Aug, 31 Scalloped Beef Jan. 11 " Jelly Sept. 30 

Peach Fritters Sept. 4 Lemon Jelly Sept. 29 " Oysters March 14 Cake Making Oct. 31 

Potato Puflfs ■^P'"'' ^° Musk-melon July 20 " Roes June 2 Candied Almonds Aug. 31 

" Rolls Nov. 3 Orange Charlotte Nov. 26 Soused Mackerel Sept. i Chocolate Caramels Aug. 31 

Ruick Cream Biscuit Sept. 19 Peaches and Cream Aug. 26 Steamed Chicken Dec. 10 " Creams Aug. 31 , 

ice Croi^uettes Jan. 30 Pineapple Cream Oct. i Stewed Kidney Aug. 18 Chickens. Geese and Ducks.Nov. 30 i 

Rye Biscuit Nov. 13 " Sherbet July 21 Tripe Oct. 14 Cotton Batting in Canning.. July 31 

" Bread Nov. 6 " Trifle July 4 Turbot a la Creme Aug. 5 Culinary Points May 31 

Sally Lunn May 9 Raspberry Float July 14 Veal Hash March 21 Dainty Lunch-basket Aug. 7 

Souffle Bread June 20 "■ Sauce July 21 " Loaf Oct. 9 Delicious Lunch Oct. 14 

Sour Milk Griddle Cakes Jan. 26 " Sherbet July 16 Warmed-over Baked Fish. .April 29 Gastronomic Scraps May 31 

Steamed Bread Sept. 6 Salted Almonds Nov. 30 Yankee Pot- pie March 26 Hints on Lemon Squeezers. Aug. 14 

Strawberry Fritters May sS " Peanuts Jan. 9 p. Hominy May 17 

Sweetbreads Jan. 24 Saratoga Chips April 27 ries. How to Cook Oatmeal Sept. 28 

Sweetbread Croquettes July 26 Sliced Pineapple July 15 Berry Pie July 25 Marshmallows ...Aug. 31 

Sweet Potato Croquettes... Nov. 20 Spanish Cream Aug. 15 Cranberry Pie Dec. 7 New tins Mch. 31 



Vienna Rolls Dec. 6 

White Bread Feb. 4 

Yeast Oct. 31 

Cake. 

Almond Cake March 25 

Boiled Frosting Sept. 13 

Sponge Cake June 28 

Cake Oct. ^.i 

Caramel Cake May 19 

Charlotte Russe March 5 

Chocolate Cake.. Jan. 8 



Stewed Apples Nov. 27 Lemon Pie March 19, Oct. 16 Nice Griddle Cakes Oct. 14 

Pears Sept. 12 Mince Pie Nov. 9 Oatmeal May 8 

'* Prunes Jan. 28 Orange Pie May 14 Orange Cream Bon-bons... Aug. 31 

Steamed Rhubarb June i Pastry for Pies April 22 Peanut Candy Mch. 31 

Rice May 22 Peach Pie Sept. 7 Peppermints Aug. 31 

Strawberry Ice Cream July 9 Pie-plant Pie June 4 picnic preparations Nov. 22 

" Sauce May 23 Pumpkin Pie Nov. 6 p|um Pudding Candy Aug. 31 

Sponge May 18 Squash Pie Nov. 2 Preserving Cranberries Sept. 30 1 



Strawberries in Jelly June 5 Tarts Dec. 9 

and whipped Washington Pie Oct. 24 

Cream July i _ ... 

Cookies. .'.'."*.*.".*.'.'. Oct. 8 Sweet Apple Pickle Oct. 6 Puddings. 

Citron Cake '. June 2g Tapioca Ice May26 Amber Pudding Oct. 19 

Cocoanul Cake ■'•'■*•'.*.'.'.'.'.".'.'.. Dec. 8 Tea Drops Jan. 31 Apple Tapioca Pudding. ..March 

** Cakes May 29 Vanilla Ice Cream July 13 Banana Puddmg 

Crearri Cake...... Nov. 8 Water-melon July 17 Berry 



Coffee Cake April 17 

Corn Starch Cake Sept. 5 

Cornucopias Oct. 5 

Cream Cake Aug. 21 

** No. 2 Oct 18 

Cream for Orange Cake. .March 28 

Currant Cake Nov. 18 

Dark Cake without eggs Dec. 1*1 

English Walnut Cake Dec. 30 

Feather Cake Feb. 19 

Fig Cake Nov, 25 

Fillin;r for Chocolate Cake. . .Jan. 8 
" " Cocoanut " . . Dec. 8 

" " Cream Cake Aug 21 

*' " " •• No. 2.0ct. i3 

'* " Fig Cake Nov. 25 

*' " Pineapple Cake. -Aug. 8 

Gelatine Frosting Oct. 1 1 

Jelly Crackers Jan. 31, 

Hard Gingerbread Sept. 22 

Hickory Nuc Cake Jan. 22 

Ice Cream Cake May 4 

Lemon Cream Cake April i 

" Snaps June 8 

Macaroons Dec. 4 

Molasses Drop Cakes June 3 

Old-fashioned Sponge Cake. Oct. 28 

Orange Cake March 28 

" . Shortcake Dec. 13 

Pancakes with Jelly June 17 

Pineapple Cake Aug. 8 

Plain Cake Aug. 11 

Pound Cake March 15 

Railroad Cake Sept. 28 

Raised Cake Nov. 15 

Raisin Cookies Dec. 26 

" Spirals Sept. 18 

Ribbon Cake Sept. 8 

Richmond Fruit Cake March 2 

Roll Jelly Cake Feb. 25 

Seed Cakes Dec. ig 

Soft Gingerbread. . .Sept. 7, Nov. 7 

Strawberry Shortcake June 19 

Sugar Cookies March i 

Sweet Shortcake Aug. 3 

Tea Cake June J 3 

White Cake June n 

Desserts. Fruit, etc. 
Ambrosia Dec. i 



ChickesawPlumsSept.30 I 

Common Pears. Sept. 30 1 

" Damson Plums. Sept. 30 ' 

'* Grapes Sept. 30 ' 

" Green Gage ' 

and Egg Plums Sept. 30 

Nov. 29 Preservinglron Pears Sept. 30 , 

J_une 27 " Newt'n Pippins.Sept. 30 , 



_ . . Boiled Tapioca Pudding Feb. 26 '• Peaches..'.." Sept. 30 

"^'""- Bread and Fruit " June 6 " Quinces Sept. 30 

Chocolate April 8 " Pudding Sept. 27 Rural Taffy Aug. 31 

Cocoa April 15 Brown Bread Pudding Dec. 5 Sardine Sandwiches Nov. 30 

Coffee March 11 Cherry Pudding July 12 stale Bread, Loaf of Sept. 14 

Iced or Russian Tea July 8 Cocoanut " Jan. 23 Vinegar as a neutralizer July 31 

Raspberry Shrub. ...... July t. Corn •' •- ; ; - ; -jJ^u^X 3- vegeUble,. 

Eggs, Omelets, etc. Cracker " April II Asparagus Maya 

Apple Omelet April 25 Cranberry " Dec. 14 Baked Beans Mch. 3 

Baked Eggs Aug. 17 Custard for Snow Pudding. Feb. 14 ]' Cabbage June 16 

Bread Omelet Sept. 25 Delmonico Pudding March 16 '" " 

Cauliflower Omelet June 12 Fig Pudding June 15 

Egg Sandwiches Oct. 27 HuckleberryPuddingMch. 27, Jul. 24 

Egg Vermicelli Feb. 20 Indian Mush Feb. 18 

Fluffy Egg Aug. 13 " Pudding Jan. 25 

Mock Macaroni April 12 Macaroon " Oct. 15 



" Corn Aug. 

" Onions June 18 

" Potatoes Apr. 3 

" Tomatoes July 6 

Beet Greens June 10 1 

Beet Hash Feb. 17 



Omelet for 4 people Tan. 14 Molasses " April 13 Beets Nov, 

Oyster Omelet Nov. 12 Mother's Charlotte Pudding. Oct. 29 Boiled Onions Aug. 22 

Pineapple Omelet May r Orange Pudding March 30 Brown Baked Potatoes Jan. 15 , 

Scrambled Eggs Feb. 8 Peach Pudding Aug. 30 Carrots with Cream Sauce. .May 6 

W>lsh Rare Bit Feb. 28 Plum " Dec. 25 Cau.iflower a la Creme. .. .April 24 

.. A .-t .. J n .. Pork " Dec. 23 Cones of Carrots and TurnipsOct.: 

Meat, Fish and Poultry. prune " Nov. 14 Com Oysters Aug. 14 

Baked Clams Aug. 20 Puff " Dec. 27 Creamed Cabbage May 25 

" Cod Marchi7 Rice " Feb. 16 _ *' ^_ Potatoes March 31 

" Haddock Jan. 20 Snow " Feb, 14 

'* Lobster Dec. 15 Steamed "^ Jan. 

" Sausage Nov. 8 Suet " Feb. 23 

Beef Rolls ..Feb. 15 *. . ^ <. 1 

Boiled Blue Fish June 30 Salads, Sauces, etc. 

" Cod Feb. 24 Boiled Dressing, Cold Slaw. March 6 

" Ham Dec. 22 Brown Sauce March 31 Green Corn July i3 

Leg of Mutton April 4 Cabbage Salad Aug. 31 Lettuce April 2 

Broiled Beef Steak March 7 Caper Sauce April 4 Lima Beans Aug. 29 ' 

Chicken June 25 Celery Salad Nov. 17 Macaroni with Cheese Jan. 17 ' 

Oysters Sept. 9 Chicken Salad Sept. 17 Preparing Potatoes Nov. 30 



Dandelions April 20 ' 

Egg-plant July 28 

Fried Breakfast Vegetables. Jan. 31 

Cucumbers Julys 

Parsnips ^Iay 5 

Tomatoes June 23 



Meal Cakes Jan. 3 Cream Sauce March 31 Rice Potatoes Dec. 

" 9 Cucumber Pickles Oct. '^ ■■ • " 



Chicken Croquettes 

" Geese and Ducks 



, . . .Jan 
— Jan 

. .Nov. 



30 Egg Salad Aug. 



I Scalloped Potatoes Mch. 13 



Tomatoes June 26 



Pie May 7 "^'^ Sauce for Fish Feb. 24 Sliced Cucumbers June 24 

with Cream Oct. 23 French Mustard Dec. 3 Spinach April 5 

Corned Beef Jan. 18 Gravy for Turkey Feb. 13 Stewed Celery Oct. 12 

Creamed Dried Beef Maya? Hard Sauce Aug. 7 String Beans July 10 ' 

Fish .Jan. 7 Hollandaise Sauce April 28 Stuffed Egg-plant Aug. 

Oysters Oct. 22 Lemon Sauce Feb. i6, Oct. 7 SuccoUsh Aug. 9 ; 

" Salt Fish Jan. 12 Lobster Salad May 13 Summer Squash Aug. 16 , 

Curry of Mutton Oct. 2 Mayonnaise Dressing April 9 Sweet Potatoes Oct. 1 

FishHash '. Sept. 23 Milk Gravy Nov. 22 Tomato Hash Dec. 

Fricassee Lamb Aug. 12 Mint Sauce July 2 Turnips a la Creme Oct, 17 



SATURDAY, 



DEC. 



16 



Breakfast— Wheat Germ with Cream. Sausage. 

Bread and Butter. Buckwheat Cakes. Maple 

Syrup. Coffee. 
Dinner— Mutton Chops. White and Sweet Potatoes. Bread and 

Butter Apple and Pumpkin Pie. 
Supper— Baked Beans. Boston Brown Bread. Cut up Oranges. 

Dark Cake. Tea. 

Dark Cake wiTHOtrr Eggs.— i cup sugar, ',4 cup butter, i cup 
molasses, i cup milk, i cup raisins, 3',4 cups flour, i teaspoonful 
each of cloves, cinnamon, nutmeg and 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder. 

SUNDAY, dec! 

Breakfast— Brewis with Cream. Fried Cod. Fish 

Cakes. Warmed Potatoes. Breakfast Puffs. 

Coffee. 
Dinner— Roast Beef. Gravy. Browned Baked Potatoes. Canned 

Tomatoes. Celery. Bread and Butter. Mince and Lemon Pies. 

Cheese. 
Supper— Welsh Rare Bit. Bread and Butter. Bananas and Lemon. 

Cake. Tea. 

Bananas and Lemon.— Prepare the bananas the night before. 
Remove the skins and cut in slices about an inch thick, place on a 
berry dish and sprinkle with sugar, i tablespoonful to 4 bananas. 
Then squeeze over that the juice of 1 lemon, adding i tablespoonful 
cold water. Set in a cool place until ready to serve. 



IT 



MONDAY, 



DEC. 



18 



Breakfa5t— Wheat Germ with Cream. Omelet. 

Fried Potatoes. Bread and Butter. Coffee. 
Dinner— Black Bean Soup. Beef Rolls or Olives. Baked White 

and Sweet Potatoes. Bread Pudding. 
Supper— Sardines Garnished with Lemon. Thin Bread and Butter. 

Cut up Oranges. Cake. Cocoa. 

Black Bean Soup.— Wash and pick over a pint of black beans. 
Put on the stove with 2 quarts of water, a sliced onion, a bay leaf, 
a bunch of sweet herbs, a stalk of celery and a few sprays of parsley. 
Simmer gently until the beans are tender enough to rub through a 
colander. After straining, add i quart of strong stock, boil all to- 
gether and serve. 



TUESDAY, 



Cream. 



DEC. 

Sausage. 



19 



Po- 



Breakfast— Indian Mush with 

Buckwheat Cakes. Coriet. 
Dinner— Boiled Leg of Mutton. Caper Sauce. Boiled Rice. 

tatoes. Bread and Butter. Orange Short-cake. 
Supper— Sliced Mutton. Currant Jelly. Bread and Butter. Seed 

Cakes. Tea. 

Seed Cakes.— i cup butter, 2 cups sugar, i cup milk, 1 table- 
spoonful seeds, iH teaspoonfuls baking powder, flour to roll out. 



WEDNESDAY, DEC. 



20 



Breakfast— Oranges. Hash. Hot Buttered Toast. 

Fried Indian Mush. Maple Syrup. Coffee. 
Dinner— Muck Duck. Gravy. Mashed White Potatoes. Turnips. 

Bread and Butter. Telly Crackers. 
Supper— Salmon Patties. Bread and Butter. Canned Peaches. 

Cake. Chocolate. 

Mock Duck. — Take 1% pounds round steak, make a dressing of 
bread crumbs, add a little sage and summer savory, season with pep- 
per and salt, add a tablespoonful butter, using i quart bread crumbs. 
Mix with I egg and a little milk, sufficient to bind. Cover the steak 
with dressing, roll and tie, bake well in a roaster in a moderate oven. 



THURSDAY, 



DEC. 



21 



Breakfast — Oatmeal with Cream. Creamed Salmon 

on Toast. Hot Rolls. Coffee. 
Dinner— Mutton Chops. Potatoes. Squash. Bread and Butter. 

Cocoanut Pudding. 
Supper— Creamed Toast. Cheese Straws. Crackers. Stewed 

Fruit. Cake. Tea. 

Cheese Straws. — 3 tablespoonfuls flour, 3 tablespoonfuls 
cheese, (grated) i tablespoonful butter, i tablespoonful milk, J-^ salt- 
spoonful salt, ^ saltspoonf ul pepper, '3 saltspoonful nutmeg, yolk of 
1 egg. Mix the dry ingredients, and add the milk, egg and butter, 
softened. Mix all well with a spoon and when the dou^^h is smooth 
divide it into 2 parts. Roll these very thin, cut them into narrow 
strips three inches long, and bake in a slow oven 15 minutes. The 
straws may be served hot or cold, arranged in bundles tied with rib- 
bon or piled on a plate log cabin style. 



FRIDAY, 



DEC. 



22 



Breakfast— California Breakfast Food with Cream. 

Poached Eggs on Toast. Doughnuts. Coffee. 
Dinner— Fish Chowder. Macaroni with Cheese. Cold Slaw. 

Bread and Butter. Oranges and Bananas. 
Supper— Sliced Ham. Bread and Butter. Hot Baked Apples. 

Cake. Tea. 

BoTi.ED Ham. — Soak the ham in a large quantity of water for 24 
hours, then trim and scrape it clean, put it into a large stew pan 
with more than sufficient water to cover it, put in a blade of mace, a 
few cloves, a sprig of thyme and 2 bay leaves. Boil for 4 or 5 hours. 
When done, let it become cold in the water in which it was boiled. 
Remove the rind without injuring the fat, and serve it sliced thin. 



SATURDAY, 



DEC. 



23 



Breakfast— Oatmeal with Cream. Warmed over 

Chowder. Bread and Butter. Coffee. 
Dinner^Fried Pork Chops. Potatoes. Apple Sauce. Bread and 

Butter. Pork Pudding. 
5upper— Creamed Oysters. Hot Buttered Toast. Jam. Cake. 

Chocolate. 

Pork Pudding. — i cup chopped pork, 1 cup chopped apple, i 
cup molasses, 1 cup sweet milk, i teaspoonful soda, i pound seedless 
raisins and flour to make very stiff. Steam 3 hours and eat with any 
favorite sauce. 



SUNDAY, 



DEC. 



24 



Breakfast— Wheat Germ with Cream. Fried Smelts. 

Creamed Potatoes. Corn Muffins. Coffee. 
Dinner— Leg of Mutton. Caper Sauce. Rice Potatoes. Canned 

Peas. Celery. Bread and Butter. Macaroon Pudding. 
Supper— Cold Sliced Mutton. Thin Bread and Butter. Stewed 

Fruit. Cake. Tea. 

Rice Potatoes.— Pare the potatoes and cook in boiling salted 
water. When done, pour off the water and set the kettle on the stove 
until the potatoes are dry, then press through a potato squeezer and 
they will be light and look like rice. 



MONDAY, 



DEC. 



25 



Breakfast— California Breakfast Food with Cream. 

Hash. Hot Buttered Toast. Coffee. 
Dinner — Pea Soup. Bread. Roast Turkey. Celery. Cranberry 

Sauce. Mashed Potatoes. Cauliflower. Roast Duck. Currant 

Jelly. Baked Sweet Potatoes. Lettuce Salad. Plum Pudding. 

Wine Sauce. Ice Cream. Sponge Cake. Fruit. Salted 

Almonds. Coffee. 
Supper -Thin Bread and Butter. Cut up Oranges. Cake. Tea. 

Plum Pudding,— 10 eggs, 1 pound beef suet, i pound raisins, i 
pound currants, i pint milk, i pound flour, % pound citron. Put the 
flour and suet together, rub fruit also in a little flour. Beat the eggs 
very light, leaving out the whites of 5, add .»li the ingredients grad- 
ually into the batter. If it is thicker than cup cake batter, sdd a lit- 
tle more milk, then add 1 teaspoonful each of ground ginger, cinna- 
mon, and cloves, 2 teaspoonfuls nutmeg, grated rind of 1 lemon, i 
wine glass of wine, i of brandy, a little mace, 1 pint bread crumbs. 
Boil in a pudding bag 4 hours, p(>ur brandy over the pudding, bring 
to the table burning. Sauce. — roaming sauce, flavored with wine. 



TUESDAY, 



DEC. 



26 



Breakfast — Oranges. Hashed Duck on Toast. 

Bread and Butter. Coffee. 
Dinner— Cold Turkey. Baked White Potatoes. Turnips. Celery. 

Bread and Butter. Apple Snow. 
Supper— Hot Baked Apples. Bread and Butter. Raisin Cookies. 

Tea. 

Raisin Cookies.— i cup butter, il4 cups su^ar, 3 eggs, i tea- 
spoonful each of soda, cinnamon and cloves, a pmch of mace, flour 
to roll stiff, 1 cup stoned and chopped raisins. Bake and cover tight- 
ly as soon as taken from the pan. 



WEDNESDAY, DEC. 



27 



Breakfast- Oatmeal with Cream. Poached Eggs on 

Toast. Doughnuts. Coffee. 
Dinner- Turkey Soup. Broiled Beef Steak. Potatoes. Squash. 

Bread and Butter. Puff Pudding. 
Supper— Celery Salad. Bread and Butter, Canned Fruit. Cake. 

Chocolate. 

Puff Pudding. — Mix in i quart flour a teaspoonful baking pow- 
der, a pinch of salt, and sweet milk to make a batter. Pour in a 
greased pan, cover the top with steamed apples, then a few bits of 
butter and steam half an hour. 



THURSDAY, 



DEC. 

Sausage. 



28 



Breakfast— Indian Mush with Cream. 

Buckwheat Cakes. Coffee. 
Dinner— Broiled Slice of Ham. Pandories. Potatoes. Canned 

Corn. Bread and Butter. Pumpkin and Mince Pie. Cheese. 
Supper— Scalloped Potatoes. Bread and Butter. Cut up Oranges. 

Cake. Tea. 

Pandorh-.s.— Chop cold beef very fine, season well with salt and 
pepper, roll out some pie-crust thin, cut in rounds as large as a saucer, 
wet the edges with cold water, pot a large tablespoonful of minced 
beef, moistened with gravy or stock, on J2 of the round, fold, pinch 
well together and drop into boiling fat, fry till brown, or bake. 



FRIDAY, 



DEC. 



29 



Breakfast— Oranges. Soft Boiled Eggs. Bread and 
Butter. Fried Indian Mush. MapleSyrup. Coffee. 

Dinner— Boiled Cod. Egg Sauce. Potatoes. Stewed Tomatoes, 
Bread and Butter. Bananas. 

Supper— Oyster Roll. Hot Buttered Toast. Canned Strawberries. 

Cake. Tea. 

OviTER Roll. — Cut around piece six inches around from the 

top of a loaf of bread, remove the inside from the loaf, leaving crust 

an inch thick ; make a rich oyster stew, fill the loaf with it and the 

bread crumbs. Glaze the outside of the loaf with beaten egg and 

place in the oven 10 minutes or till brown. 



SATURDAY, 



DEC. 



30 



Breakfast— Hominy with Cream. Creamed Fish on 
Toast. Fried Potatoes. Bread and Butter. Coffee. 

Dinner— Tripe. Potatoes. Turnips. Celery. Bread and Butter. 
Apple and Lemon Pie. Cheese. 

Supper— Boston Brown Bread. Baked Beans. Stewed Prunes, 
Knglish Walnut Cake. Tea. 

English Walnut Cake. — Make Feather Cake and bake In 
layers, spread boiled icing on each layer and on top of the icing press 
the meat of English walnuts, which have been carefully halved. 
Save the perfect nuts for the top. 



SUNDAY, 



DEC. 



31 



Breakfast— Brewis with Cream. Cod Fish Balls. 

Creamed Potatoes. Breakfast Puflfs. Coffee. 
Dinner— Roast Beef. Gravy. Browned Baked PoUtoes. Turnips. 

Celery. Bread and Butter. Orange Short-cake. 
Supper -Baked Hominy. Maple Syrup. Apple Sauce. Cake. 

Chocolate. 

Baked Hominv. — Mix cold boiled hominy with 2 beaten eggs, i 
cup milk, a little salt, put in baking dish with small bits of butter on 
top and bake till brown. 



SUNDAY, 



JAN. 



Breakfast.— Oatmeal, with Cream ; Salt Fish Balls ; But- ■ 
t-cred Toast ; CofEee. -^^ 

Dinner.— Roast Turkey, Cranberry Sauce ; Mashed Potatoes ; 

Turnips ; Celery ; White Bread and Butter ; Pumpkin Pic. 
Supper.— Thin Bread and Butter; Cold Turkey; Canned Peaches; 
New Years Cakes ; Tea. 
Salt Fish Balls.— One cup raw salt fish, i pint potatoes, i 
teaspoonful huttcr. i ee^, well beaten, J-;-saItspoonful pepper, 
more salt, if needed. Wash the fish, pick in half-inch pieces and 
free from bones. Pare the potatoes and cut in cjuarters. Put the 
potatoes and fish in a slew pan and cover with boiling water. 
Boil twenty-five minutes, or till the potatoes are soft. Drain off 
all the water ; mash and beat the fisn and potatoes till very light. 
Add the butter and pepper, and when slightly cooled add the 
egg and more salt if needed. Shape in a table spoon without 
smoothing much. Slip them off into a basket, and fry in smoking 
hot lardoxs.^ minute The lard should be hot enough to brown a 
piece of bread while you count forty. Drain on soft paper. 



MONDAY, 



JAN. 

Scrambled Eggs; 



Breakfast. — Hominy, with Cream; 

VVhite Bread and Butter ; Coffee. ■ ™ 

Dinner — Turkey Soup and Crackers; Broiled Mutton Chops; 

Fried Potatoes; White Bread and Butter; Oranges. 
Supper.— Hot Rolls; Butter; Dried Beef ; Currant Jelly ; Plain 

Cake; Tea. 

Turkey Solip.— Place the turkey bones in a kettle and cover 
with cold water. Let come to a boil and then simmer for two 
hours. Put the kettle in a cold place, and when the soup is cool 
skim off all the fat and bones, bits of meat, etc. Put on the 
stove and boil for half an hour. Season with pepper and salt. 



TUESDAY, 



JAN. 



Breakfast.— Oranges ; Buckwheat Griddle Cakes, with ^^m 

Maple Syr^jp; \Vhite Bread and Butter ; Coffee. ^^^ 

Dinner.— Broiled Meat Cakes; Baked Potatoes; Canned Stewed 



Tomatoes ; White Bread and Butter ; Pumpkin Pie. 
Supper.— Fried Hominy ; Graham Bread and Butter; Cut up 
Oranges ; Plain Cake ; Cocoa. 

Broiled Meat Cakes — Chop lean raw ^^^y quite fine. Sea- 
son with salt, pepper and a little chopped onion. Make it into 
small, fiat cakes and broil on a well-greased gridiron or on a hot 
frying-pan. Turn the cakes very often. 



WEDNESDAY, 



JAN. 



Breakfast.- Wheatlet, with Cream ; Fried Ham and BH 

Eggs; White Bread and Butter; Coffee. -■- 

Dinner. — Corned Beef ; Cabbage; Creamed Potatoes ; White 
Bread and Butter ; Steamed Pudding ; Sauce. 

Supper.— Cold Sliced Corned Beef ; Hot Baked Apples ; White 
and Graham Bread ; Ginger Snaps ; Tea. 

Steamed Pudding.— One pint bread crumbs, one egg (well 
beaten), one cup molasses, one cup cold water, one cup flour, one 
teaspoonful soda, one teaspoonful cinnamon, one teaspoonful 
cloves, one half teaspoonful allspice, a little salt. Steam three 
hours. Sai'ce — One cup sugar, one-half cup butter, one egg, (well 
beaten,) one cup boiling water, a little nutmeg. Beat not boil. 



THURSDAY, 



JAN. 



Breakfast — Oatmeal and Cream ; Corned Beef Hash; ^ m 
Hot Rolls ; Coffee. ^^ 

Dinner.— Beef Stew with Dumplings ; Celery ; White Bread and 
Butter ; Rice Pudding. 

Supper.- Milk Toast ; Crackers and Cheese ; Cocoa. 

Beef Stew, with Duhi'lings.— Cut the meat into small 
pieces. Dredge with salt, pepper and flour (if not previously 
cooked) and brown all over in drippings or salt pork. Put it into 
the stew-pan. Cut two onions, one small white turnip and half 
a small carrot into half-inch dice. Add them to the stew. Add 
boiling luate-r ^no\y%\\. to cover, and simmer two or three hours. 
When the meat is tender add six or eight small potatoes. Season 
to taste. DuMrLiNGs.— One pint of flour, half a teaspoonful of 
salt, two teaspoonfuls of baking-powder. Mix with one scant 
cup sweet milk into a dou^h soft enough to handle easily. Pat it 
out half an inch thick. Cut in small rounds, or mix softer and 
drop by the spoonful into the boiling stew. Cook ten minutes. 
Serve. 



FRIDAY, 



JAN. 



Breakfast.— Whole Wheat Mush, with Cream ; Warmed- ^J 

Over Stew ; Hot Baked Sour Apples ; White Bread and ^^ 

Butter ; Coffee. 
Dinner.— Baked Halibut ; Baked Sweet Potatoes; Baked White 

Potatoes ; Bread and Butter ; Blanc-Mange. 
Supper,— Buttered Toast ; Cheese; Canned Strawberries, Cake: 

Milk ; Tea, 

Baked Sour Apples.— Pick out sound apples. Core them and 
place in a baking dish. Fill each apple center with white sugar, 
and pour a little water in the dish. Bake until apples are very soft. 



SATURDAY, 



JAN. 



Breakfast.— Oatmeal, with Cream ; Creamed Fish ; ■ 
Warmed Potatoes; Bread and Butter* Coffee. ^ 

Dinner.— -Broiled Beef Steak ; Mashed White Potatoes; Canned 
Stewed Tomatoes; Bread and Butter; Hot Apple Pie and Cheese. 
Supper. — Baked Beans; Boston Brown Bread; Apple Sauce, 

Cake ; Tea. 

Cre.a,med Fish.— Pick cold broiled or baked halibut into small 
pieces, taking out all bones. Boil one cup of milk, one teaspoon- 
ful of butter and one heaping teaspoofui of flour. (Mix the flour 
with a very ilttle milk, so that it will be smooth.) When boiling 
add the fish, and serve as soon as creamy. 



SUNDAY, 



JAN. 



8 



Breakfast.— Oranges ; Fried Oysters; Fried Potatoes; 

Buttered Toast ; Coffee. 
Dinner.— Roast Chicken; Celery; Sweet Potatoes; Mashed 

Potatoes ; Gravy ; Bread and Butter ; Apple Pie ; Cheese. 
Supper.— Thin Bread and Butter; Cheese; Canned Pears; 

Chocolate Cake. 



Chocolate Cake.— Ctjia":- A piece of butter the size of a 
butternut, (beaten till creamy.) i cup sugar, \ egg, (beaten light,) 
73 cup milk, i-i cup flour, i heaping teaspoonful baking powder. 
Filling -.—yi^Xx 1 square chocolate. Add, when melted, i cup su- 
gar 5 tablespoonfulsof milk. Boil three minutes. Add i tea- 
spoonful vanilla. Beat with an egg-beater till cool enough to 
spread on cake. 



MONDAY, 



JAN. 



Breakfast.— Hominy, with Cream; Boiled Eggs; Warmed ^^V 
Potatoes, Bread and Butter ; Coffee. ^^ 

Dinner.— Chicken Soup and Crackers; Slice of Ham, Broiled ; 
Mashed White Potatoes ; Turnips; Bread and Butter ; Oranges. 

Supper,— Chicken Croquettes ; Bread and Butler ; Apple Sauce ; 
Chocolate. 

Chicken Croquettes. — One cup cold chicken, chopped very 
fine and seasoned with half a teaspoonful of salt, half a teaspoon- 
ful of celery salt, a quarter of a saltspoonful of cayenne pepper, 
and one saltspoonful of white pepper. Make one-half pint of 
very thick cream sauce and mix the sauce with the chicken. 
Spread on a shallow plate to cool. Shape into rolls. Roll in fine 
cracker dust, then dip in beaten egg, then in crumbs again and 
fry one minute in smoking hot lard. Drain on soft paper. 

Thick Cream Sauce.— One cup hot milk, i even tablespoon- 
ful butter, 2 heaping table spoonfuls flour, i heaping tablespoon- 
ful cornstarch, !^ teaspoonful salt. % saltspoonful white pepper, 
?3 teaspoonful celery salt. Scald the milk. Melt the butter in a 
saucepan. When bubbling, add the dry cornstarch. Stir till 
well mixed.* Add more milk and boil again. When perfectly 
smooth, add the remainder of the milk. The sauce should be 
very thick, almost like a drop batter. Add the seasoning and mix 
while hot with the chicken. 



TUESDAY, 



JAN. 



10 



Breakfast.— California Breakfast Food, with Cream ; 
Broiled Mutton Chops ; Fried Potatoes; Corn Muf- 
fins and Butter; Coffee. 

Dinner.— Roast Beef, Gravy ; Pickles; Mashed White Potatoes; 
Parsnips • Bread and Butter. 

Supper.— Cold Roast Beef, (sliced thin) ; Buttered Toast ; Apple 
Jelly ; Cake.; Chocolate. 

Corn Muffins.— One cup common corn meal, 2 tablespoon- 
fuls sugar, i scant teaspoonful salt, 1 even tablespoonful butter, 
5 cups boiling water. Mix at night the meal, sugar and salt, in 
the top of the double boiler. Add the butter and boilinj; water, 
stir until smooth, and cook an hour. Turn into a mi.\ing-bowl 
and pour over it one-fourth of a cup of water to prevent a crust 
from forming. In the morning beat it up soft and smooth. Mix 
one cup and a half of fine yellow corn flour, one cup and a half of 
white flour, two even teaspoonfuls of baking-powder and stir 
them in with the cooked meal. Add one egg (well beaten.) Drop 
the mixture into round iron gem pans and bake in a hot oven. 



WEDNESDAY, 



JAN. 



11 



Breakfast. — Oatmeal, with Cream; Buckwheat 

Griddle Cakes, with Maple Syrup; White Bread 

and Butter ; Coffee. 

Dinner.- Beef Soup ; Pork Chops; White and Sweet Potatoes; 

Celery ; Bread and Butter ; Nuts and Raisins. 
Supper.- Scalloped Beef; Bread and Butter; Canned Peaches; 

Cake. • 

Scalloped Beef.— Chop cold roast beef very fine. Season to 
taste and make quite moist with gravy. Butter a baking dish 
and put alternate layers of the meat and mashed potato. Dust 
fine cracker crumbs on the top, and bury small lumps of butter. 
Bake till the crumbs are brown. 



THURSDAY, 



JAN. 



12 



Breakfast.— California Breakfast Food, with Cream; 
Creamed Salt Fish ; Hot Rolls ; Coffee. 

Dinner.— Roast Mutton, Gravy ; Boiled Potatoes ; Canned To- 
matoes ; Squash ; Bread and Butter ; Cup Custard. 

Supper.— Cold Sliced Mutton ; Currant Jelly ; Bread and Butter ; 
Sponge Cake ; Cocoa. 

Creamed Salt Fish. — Serve one cup of picked-up fish in a 
rich cream sauce, on toast. For cream sauce see rule for Mon- 
day, Jan. 9th. Soak the fish over night in cold water, with the 
skin side up. Pick into small bits and mix with the cream sauce. 
Serve on toast as soon as hot. 



FRIDAY, 



JAN. 



13 



Breakfast.- Hominy, with Cream ; Hash ; Warmed 

Potatoes; Bread and Butter ; Coffee. 
Dinner.— Fried Smelts ; Canned Tomatoes ; Celery ; Potatoes ; 

Cottage Pudding. 
Supper.— Milk Toast; Graham Bread and Butter; Cheese; 

Canned Cherries ; Cake ; Tea. 

Graham Bread.— One pint milk, scalded and cooled, two table- 
spoonfuls molasses, one teaspoonful salt, one-half cup yeast, two 
cups white flour and three or three and one-half cups Graham 
flour. In the morning mix, in the order given, into a dough a lit- 
tle softer than for white bread. Let it rise till light. Stir it 
down. Pour it into well-greased pans. Let it rise again, und 
bake a little longer and in a less hot oven than white bread. 



FRIDAY, 



DEC. 



Breakfast— Oatmeal with Cream. Lamb Chops. Warmed I 
Potatoes. Bread and Butter. Coffee. -*- 

Dinner— Potato Soup. Cold Turkey Warmed in Gravy. Mashed 
Potatoes. Sweet Potatoes. Cranberry Sauce. Bread and 
Butter. Pumpkin Pie. 

Supper— Oyster Stew. Crackers. Ambrosia. Cake. Tea. 

A.MiiROSiA. — Gratei cocoanut, slice several oranfjes, put a layer 
of the orange in a plass fruit dish, sprinkle with sugar and strew 
with cocoanut, continue in this way until the dish is uill, having co- 
coanut on the top. 



SATURDAY, 



DEC. 

Buckwheat 



Breakfast- Sausage. Bread and Butter. 

Cakes. Maple Syrup. Doughnuts. Coffee. ' ^ 

Dinner— Salmon Steak. Potatoes. Stewed Tomatoes. Cold Slaw. 

Bread and Butter. Apple and Mince Pie. 
5upper— Baked Beans. Boston Brown Bread. Fruit. Cake. 

Tea. 

Salmon Steak. — It is delicious cooked in this way. Boil in 
salted water for 25 minutes, putting the fish in when the water is 
hot. While it is boiling, mix i tablespoonful butter and i table- 
spoonful flour together, pour boiling water over it, beat it until 
light, and turn it over the fish when it is on the platter ready for the 
table. The water must be literally boiling or the flour will have a 
raw taste. Use pepper, salt and chopped parsley in the dressing to 
suit the taste. 



SUNDAY, 



DEC. 



Breakfast— Brewis with Milk. Warmed over Salmon. ^^M 
Breakfast Rolls. Coffee. ^^^ 

Dinner — Roast Beef. Gravy. Browned Baked Potatoes. Canned 
Corn. Celery. Bread and Butter. Mother's Charlotte Pudding. 

Supper — Sliced Beef. French Mustard. Thin Bread and Butter. 
Canned Peaches. Cake. Tea. 

French Mustard. — 4 tablespoonfuls dry mustard, i tablespoon- 
ful sugar, 1 teaspoonful vinegar, i tcaspoonful cinftamon, '2 tea- 
spoonful each of cloves, black pepper and flour. Mix smooth with 
vin^igar and let it come to a boil. When cold, add 2 tablespoonfuls 
olive oil. 



MONDAY, 



DEC. 



Breakfast — Oatmeal with Cream. Hash. Warmed Pota- BSI 
toes. Bread and Butter. Coffee. -*■ 

Dinner — Veal Cutlet. Potatoes. Curried Rice. Bread and Butter. 
Nuts and Raisins. 

Supper— Celery Salad. Thin Bread and Butter. Hot Baked Ap- 
ples. Macaroons. Chocolate. 

Macaroons. — Very delicate m\caroons are made of ;| pound 
almonds, blanched and pounded, >vith a little rose water added to 
moisten and flavor them. Beat the whites of 3 eggs very light, add 
.':; cup sugar gradually, mix all thtToughly together and drop on 
clean writing paper and bake for about 3 minutes in a quick oven. 



TUESDAY, 



DEC. r 

Breakfast— Hominy with Cream. Minced Veal on Toast. 4^9 

Doughnuts. Coffee. ^^^ 

Dinner— Roast of Pork. Potatoes. Stewed Celery. Apple Sauce. 

Bread and Butter. Brown Bread Pudding. 
Supper— Sliced Pork. Bread and Butter. Currant Jelly. Cake. 

Tea. 

Brown Bkead Pudding. — i cup molasses, i teaspoonful soda, dis- 
solved in l^ cup boiling water, stir this thoroughly in the molasses, 
add 3 parts of graham flour to i of corn meal in sufficient quantity 
to make a batter. Add i tablespoonful melted lard and J^ pound 
stoned and floured dates. Steam 4 hours and serve with foaming 
sauce. 



WEDNESDAY, 



DEC. 



Breakfast— Bread Omelet. Hot Buttered Toast. Hominy ^^M 
Griddle Cakes. Maple Syrup. Coffee. ^^^ 

Dinner— Broiled Beef Steak. Potatoes. Squash. Bread and But- 
ter. Apple Snow. 

Supper— Sardines Garnished with Lemon. Vienna Rolls. Cut up 
Oranges. Cake. Tea. 

Vienna Rolls. — i quart flour, }4 teaspoonful salt, 3 teaspoon- 
fuls baking powder, 1 tablespoonful lard, i pint milk. Sift together 
flour, salt and baking powder, rub in the lard, cold, add the milk and 
mix into a smooth dough. Turn on to board handle as little as pos- 
sible, roll V2 inch thick, cut with a large round cutter, fold J^ over 
on the other. Lay them on a greased baking sheet without touching 
and wash them over with a little milk to glaze them, and bake in a 
hot oven 15 minutes. 



THURSDAY, 



DEC. 



Breakfast— Oatmeal with Cream. Liver and Bacon. ■ 
Bread and Butter. Coffee. ^ 

Dinner— Corned Beef. Cabbage. Potatoes. Beets. Bread and 
Butter. Cranberry Pi?- 

Supper- Sliced Corn Beel. Thin Bread and Butter, Jam. Cake. 
Chocolate. 

Ckanberry Pie.— Fill under crust with cranberries that have 
been cooked as for sauce and bake. When done spread over the top 
whipped cream and serve. 

To prevent pie juice from running out in the oven, 
make a little opening in the upper crust, and insert a 
little roll of brown paper perpendicularly. The steam 
will escape from it as a chimney, and all the juice will 
be retained in the pic. 



FRIDAY, DEC. 

Breakfast— Wheat Germ with Cream. Beet Hash. Bread 
and Butter. Coffee. 

Dinner— Boiled Cod. Egg Sauce. Potatoes. Turnips. 
Salad. Bread and Butter. Oranges and Bananas, 

Supper— Scalloped Potatoes. Bread and Butter. Sauce. Cocoa- 
nut Cake. Tea. 



8 

Celery 



Cocoanut Cake.— ^ cup butter, 2 cups sugar, yolks of 4 eggs, 
whites of 2, I cup sweet milk, 3J4 cups flour, 2 teaspoonfuls baking 
powder. Filling. — Cover each layer with an icing made of the 
beaten whites of 2 eggs and Vz cup powdered sugar. Grate a cocoa- 
nut and sprinkle over the icing, saving as much as possible for the top. 



SATURDAY, 



DEC. 



Breakfast-Oatmeal with Cream. Creamed Fish on Toast, ^^m 

Corn Bread. (. offeei ^^^ 

Dinner — Ham and Eggs. Potatoes. Squash. Bread and Butter. 

Tarts. 
Supper— Scalloped Oysters. Bread and Butter. Apple Sauce. 

Cake. Tea. 

Tarts.— Roll out rich pie crust quite thin and cut into three-cor- 
nered pieces. Bend the edges upward and put a generous spoonful 
nf jam on each, cut very delicate strips of crust, and place across 
like slats ; wet the edges of the slats and press them tlrmly against 
the edges of the tart. Bake quickly. 



SUNDAY, 



DEC. 



10 



Brealcfast — Hominy with Cream. Fried Smelts. 

Fried Potatoes. Breakfast Puffs. Coffee. 
Dinner— Steamed Chicken. Gravy. Mashed Potatoes. Canned 

Corn. Celery. Pumpkin and Mince Pie. 
Supper— Chipped Beef. Thin Bread and Butter. Ambrosia. Cake. 

Tea. 

SrfeAMED Chicken. — Prepare the chicken as for roasting, place 
it in a steamer over a kettle of boiling water and steam 1^ hours if 
small, 2 hours if large. Then roast in a quick oven Vz hour or until 
brown. Boil the giblets, have them done by the time the chicken is 
placed in the oven, add a lump of butter to the water and use it for 
basting. Cooked in this way, a year old fowl is quite as lender as 
a spring chicken. 



MONDAY, 



DEC. 



11 



Breakfast— Oranges. Sausage. Bread and Butter. 

Huminy Cakes. Maple Syrup. Coffee. 
Dinner— Potato Soup. Chicken Croquettes. Potatoes. Canned 

Peas. Cranberry Sauce. Bread and Butler. Rice Pudding. 
Supper— Crackers and Cheese. Hot Baked Apples. Cake. 

Chocolate. 

Cranberry Sauce. — Pick over and wash a quart of cranberries, 
add a pint of water and a pint of sugar. Boil slowly in a closely 
covered granite saucepan f^or 20 minutes. If the rule is followed 
exactly the skins will be quite tender. 



TUESDAY, 



DEC. 



12 



Breakfast— Oatmeal with Cream. Stewed Kidney. 

Warmed Potatoes. Bread and Butter. Coffee. 
Dinner— Broiled Beef Steak. Potatoes. Stewed Tomatoes. Bread 

and Butter. Nuts and Raisins. 
Supper— Tomato Hash. Bread and Butter. Stewed Prunes. Cake. 

Tea. 

Tomato Hash.— Mince cold beef steak very fine, put it in a pud- 
ding dish with alternate layers of bread crumbs and stewed toma- 
toes. Season each layer with pepper, salt and bits of butter. Have 
the top layer crumbs, bake J-2 hour, or till brown. 



WEDNESDAY. DEC. 



13 



Breakfast^ Baked Apples with Cream. Oatmeal 

Gems. Butter. Doughnutri. Coffee. 
Dinner— Ragout of VeaT. Potatoes. Turnips. Bread and Butter, 

Orange Short-cake. 
Supper— Sliced Veal. Thin Bread and Butter. Canned Fruit. 

Cake. Tea. ■ 

Orange Short-cake. — Peel 2 large oranges and % a lemon, and 
remove all of the white skin. Chop them hne, remove the seeds, 
add I cup sugar and spread between the layers while it is hot. Use 
rule for Strawberry or Peach Short-cake. 



THURSDAY, 



DEC. 



14 



Breakfast— Wheat Germ with Cream Minced Veal 

on Toast. Bread and Butter. Coffee. 
Dinner— Fricassee Lamb. Mashed Potatoes. Squash. Bread and 

Butter. Cranberry Pudding. 
Supper— Egg Salad. Crumpets. Butter. Jam. Cake. Tea. 



Cranberry Pudding.— Pour boiling water on i pint of dried 
bread crumbs ; melt i tablespoonful butter and stir in. When the 
bread is softened, beat in 2 eggs, thoroughly, then add a pint of 
stewed cranberries, sweetened, and bake in a hot oven i^ liour. 



FRIDAY, 



DEC. 



15 



Breakfast — California Breakfast Food with Cream. 
Warmed over Lamb. Bread and Butter. Dough- 
nuts. Coffee. 

Dinner— Baked Lobster. Potatoes. Canned Corn. Celery Salad. 
Bread and Butter. Oranges. 

Supper— Oyster Stew. Crackers. Stewed Prunes. Cake. Tea. 

Baked Lodster.- Pound the meat toa smooth paste, mixing a 
little butter, salt, pepper and a few bread crumbs with it, and lastly 
stir in 2 well-beaten eggs. Shape th s mixture as nearly like a lob- 
ster as possible, pressmg it firmly with the hands. Place on a well 
greased pan, dust with line cracker crumbs and bits of butter and 
bake 20 minutes or till brown. 1 f lobsters cannot be procured, canned 
will do quite as well, using i large or 2 small cans. 



SATURDAY, 



JAN. 



14 



Breakfast. — Omelet ; Fried Potatoes ; Muffins ; 

Butter ; Coffee. 
Dinner. —Broiled Beef Steak -^ Baked White and Sweet Poutoes ; 

Bread and Butter ; Apple Pie ; Cheese. 
Sttpper.— Oyster Stew; Crackers ; Bread and Butter ; Blackberry 

jam ; Cake ; Tea. 



Omelet for Four People.— Beat the yolks of four eggs till 

liffht-colored, and thick ; add one-half cup of milk, one teaspoon- 
ful of salt and one-half a teaspoonful of pepper. Beat the 
whites of four eg^s till stiff and dry. Cut and fold them lightly 
into the yolks till just covered. Usea smooth iron spider or fry- 
ing pan with a tin cover. Heat the pan and the cover very hot, 
Butter the pan. turn in the mixture, cover it and place on the 
back of the stuve for five minutes, or till firm. Fold as usual. 
Omelets should be only slightly browned, never burned, as the 
flavor of scorched egg is not agreeable. 



SUNDAY, 



JAN. 



15 



Breakfast. — Oranges ; Fried Halibut Steak ; 
Creamed Potatoes; Corn Muffins; Butter; Coffee. 

Dinner. -Roast Beef. Gravy; Browned Baked Potatoes; Tur- 
nips ; Celery ; Bread and butter ; Mince Pie and Cheese. 

Supper.— Cold Roast Beef; Bread and Butter; Canned Plums; 
Cake ; Cocoa. 

Browned BAiceo Potatoes. — Pare the Potatoes. Cover them 
«rith cold salted water, and let stand an hour. Place them in the 
dripping-pan, close around the meat, and when they are partially 
cooked turn them over and baste, so that they will be nicely 
browned. Cook forty-five minutes, or until soft, not soggy. 



MONDAY, 



JAN. 



16 



Breakfast. — Oatmeal, with Cream; Buckwheat 

Griddle Cakes, with Maple Syrup ; Bread and 

Butter ; Coffee. 
Dinner.— Soup and crackers ; Meat Pie ; Onions, boiled in milk ; 

Sweet Potatoes- Bread and Butter • Rice Pudding. 
3upper. — Fried Sweet Potatoes; Bread and Butter; Stewed 

Prunelles; Plum Cake ; Tea. 

Meat Pie. — Cut cold meat in inch squares. Cut raw pota- 
toes into small pieces. Put the meat and potatoes in a good- 
sized baking-dish and fill the dish one-fourth full of gravy. Sea- 
son with salt and pepper. Ckust . — One pint flour, sifted, one- 
half teaspoonful salt, one heaping teaspoonful baking-powder, 
small tablespoonful butter, milk to make a soft dough. Mix in 
the order given, then sift all together. Rub in the butter with 
the tips oi the fingers until there are no large lumps. Mix in the 
milk, using a knite. When stiff enough to be handled, turn out 
on a well-floured board, roll out thick and put on the top of the 
meat. Wet the edges of the dish, to make the pastry stick. 



TUESDAY, 



JAN. 



17 



Breakfast.— California Breakfast Food with Cream ; 

Fried Ham and Eggs ; Bread and Butter ; Coffee. 
Dinner.— Broiled Mutton Chops ; Bread and Butter ; Fried Raw 

Potatoes ; Canned Corn ; White Grapes. 
Supper. — Macaroni with Cheese; Bread and Butter; Canned 

Quinces ; Cream Cakes ; Tea. 

Macaroni with Cheese. — Break one-quarter of a pound of 
macaroni in three-inch pieces, and put into three pints of boiling 
salted water. Boil twenty minutes, or until soft. Drain in a coU 
ander, and pour cold water through it to cleanse and keep it from 
sticking. Cut into inch pieces. Put in a shallow baking-dish and 
cover with a white sauce, made with a cup and a half of hot 
milk, one tablespoonful of butter and one tablespoonful of flour, 
cooked according to directions for white sauce, (See Jan. q.) 
Use half a cup of grated dry cheese. Put part of it with the 
sauce and mix the remainder with fine cracker crumbs, and 
sprinkle over the top. Put a few small lumps of butter on, and 
bake till the crumbs are brown. 



WEDNESDAY, JAN. 

Breakfast.— Hominy, with Cream ; Salt Fish Balls; 

Hot Rolls ; Coffee. 
Dinner.— Corned Beef; Cabbage; Boiled White Potatoes; 

Bread and Butter ; Steamed Pudding. 
5apper.— Cold Sliced Corned Beef ; Bread and Butter ; Hot 

Baked Apples ; Cake ; Tea. 

CoRSRD Beef. — Select a piece of beef which has a fair pro- 
portion of fat. If very salt, soak in cold watar half an hour. 
Put on to boil in fresh, cold water enough to cover it. Skim care- 
fully when it begins to boil and cook slowly, simmering (not 
boiling) until very tender. 



THURSDAY, 



JAN. 



Brealcfast. — Oatmeal and Cream; Boiled Eggs; 

Warmed Potatoes ; Bread, Butter and Coffee. 
Dinner.- Broiled Beef Steak; Baked White and Sweet Potatoes; 

Celery ; Bread and Butter ; Apples; Salted Peanuts. 
Supper. — Creamed White Potatoes. Graham Bread; Butter; 

Canned Peaches ; Currant Cake ; Tea. 

Salted Peanits. — Cover one pint of roasted and shelled pea- 
nuts with boiling water. Let them stand for five minutes, then 
pour off the hot water. Cover the nuts with cold water and rub 
off the thin, brown skins. Put the peanuts in a warm bowl and 
.«tir in two tatilespoonfuls of salt and two of melted butter. Place 
the bow! in a place warm enough to keep the butter liquid for one 
hour. At the end of that time drain all the liquid from the nuts 
and spread them in a clean, shallow pan. Cook them in a moder- 
ate oven for about twenty minutes. They should be brown and 
crisp at the end of that time. 



FRIDAY, 



JAN. 



20 



Breakfast.— Oranges ; Corned Beef Hash ; Toast ; 

Butter ; Coffee. 

Dinner.- Baked Haddock ; Boiled White Potatoes ; Fried Pars- 
nips ; Bread and Butter -Bread Pudding. 
Supper.— Creamed Fish ; Bread and Butter : Apple Sauce ; Cake; 

Tea. 

Baked Haddock. — Stuff the fish with one cup cracker 
crumbs, one saltspoonful salt, one saltspoonful pepper, one tea- 
spoonful chopped onion, one teaspoonful chopped parsley, one- 
fourth cup melted butter. Put two or three shoes of fat salt pork 
over and near the fish ; dust with flour ; baste often. Bake till 
brown. 



SATURDAY, 



JAN. 



21 



Breakfast. — Oatmeal and Cream; Broiled Salt Mack- 
erel; Warmed Potatoes; Bread and Butter; Coffee. 

Dinner. — Tomato or Mock Bisque Soup and Crackers ; Pork 
Chops • Mashed White Potatoes ; Turnips ; Baked Apple 
Dumplings. 

5upper. — Baked Beans ; Boston Brown Bread ; Cut up Oranges ; 
Plain Cake ; Tea. 

Tomato Sotf p.— One-half can tomatoes, one quart milk, one- 
third cup butter, one tablespoonful corn starch, one teaspoonful 
salt, one-half saltspoonful white pepper. Stew the tomatoes until 
soft enough to strain easily. Boil the milk in a double boiler. 
Cook one tablespoonful of the butter and the corn starch togethei 
in a small saucepan, adding enough milk to make it pour easily. 
Stir it carefully into the boiling milk and boil ten minutes. Add 
the remainder of the butter in small pieces, and stir till well 
mixed. Add salt, pepper and the strained tomatoes. If the to- 
matoes be very acid, add half a saltspoonful of soda, before 
straining. Serve very hot. 



SUNDAY, 



JAN. 



22 



Breakfast.— California Breakfast Food and Cream. 
Buckwheat Griddle Cakes, with Maple Syrup. 
Creamed potatoes. White Bread and Butter. Coffee. 

Dinner.— Roast Duck. Boiled Sweet and White Potatoes. Gra- 
vy. Boiled Rice. Celery. Lemon Pie. 

Supper.— Cold Roast Duck. Thin Bread and Butter. Canned 
Apricots. Hickory Nut Cake. Tea. 

Hickory Nut Cake. — One and one-half cups sugar, one cap 
raisins, one cup hickory nut meats, three eggs, one teaspoonful 
soda, two teaspoonfuls cream tartar, one cup milk and enough 
flour to make a stiff batter. 



MONDAY, 



JAN. 



23 



Breakfast. — Oatmeal and Cream. Omelet. Bread 

and Butter. Coffee. 
Dinner.— Soup. Beef Steak. Fried Potatoes. Stewed Canned 

Tomatoes. Bread and Butter. Cocoanut Pudding. 
Supper.— Hot Corn Bread. Crackers. Canned Cherries. Cake. 

Chocolate. 

Three tablcspoonfuls tapioca in cold water over night. Boil 
one quart milk, add tapioca and boil five minutes, then add yolks 
of four eggs, one cup sugar, three tablcspoonfuls dessicated co- 
coanut, b-ul ten minutes, turn into a dish to cool. Beat whites 
and two tablespoonfuls sugar. Spread on top and put in the oven 
a few minutes till a light brown. 



TUESDAY, 



JAN. 

Mutton Chops. 



24 



Breakfast. — Farinose and Cream. 

Wheat Muffins. Cuffee. 
Dinner.— Soup. Sweetbreads. Mashed White Potatoes. Fried 

Parsnips. Cottage Pudding, with Hard Sauce. 
Supper.— Thin Bread and Butter. Orange Marmalade. Fresh 

Molasses Cakes. Chocolate. 

Sweetbreads. — In whatever way they are dressed, they 
should first be soaked in luke warm water, then thrown into boil- 
ing water to " blanch " them. If lifted out after they have boiled 
five or ten minutes, according to their size, their color will be bet- 
ter preserved. Dip in beaten egg and cracker crumbs, and fry in 
butter. Surround the dish with French green peas that have 
been heated. 



WEDNESDAY, 

Hominy and Cream. 
White and Sweet 



Breakfast. — Oranges. 

on Toast. Coffee. 
Dinner.— Roast Beef. 

Indian Pudding. 

Supper.— Fried hominy. Bread and Butter. Cold Roast Beef. 
Canned Cherries. Cake. 



JAN. 

Eggs 
Potatoes. Celery. 



25 



Indian Pudding.— One quart boiling milk, one cup Indian 
meal, two tablespoonfuls flour, one tablespoonful butter, one- 
half cup molasses, one egg, a little salt. Mix meal, flour, butter, 
egg and molasses together, and then turn on them the boiling 
milk. Bake one hour. When it begins to stiffen, stir well once. 



THURSDAY, 



JAN. 



26 



Breakfast.— Stewed Prunes. Bread and Butter. 
Sour Milk Griddle Cakes. Coffee. 

Dinner.— Soup. Warmed Over Roast Beef. Mashed White Po- 
tatoes. Turnips. Bread and butter. Hot Apple Pie. Cheese. 

Supper.— Hot Buttered Toast. Chipped Beef. Hot Baked Ap- 
ples. Cake. Tea. 

Sour Milk Griddle Cakes.— One pint flour, one-half tea- 
spoonful salt, one teaspoonful soda, one pint sour milk, one egg, 
well beaten. Baked on a hot, well-greased griddle. Turn when 
full of bubbles and bake on the other side till they stop puffing. 
Use one-half or one-third fine corn meal or Graham flour, to make 
a variety. 



THURSDAY, NOV. 



30 



Breakfast — Wheat Germ with Cream. Omelet. Hot 

Buttered Toast. Coffee. 
Dinner— Tomato Soup. Bread and Butter. Roast Turkey. Gib- 

lei Gravy. Chicken Pie. Mashed Potato. Turnips. Squash. 

Cranberry Jelly. Celery Salad. Apple Pie. Pumpkin Pie. 

Mince Pie. Cheese. OUves. Salted Almonds. Fruit. Nuts 

and Raisins. Coffee, 
Supper— Thin Bread and Butter, jelly. Tea. 

Sai.tkm .'\i.iinM)s.— Shell almonds, taking care not to break the 
meat, and puur boiling water over them and leave for a few min- 
utes, then rub the brown skin off and let dry. To each 5-2 pint of 
almonds add 1 tablespoonful melted butter and i teaspoonful salt. 
Stir, spread in a shallow cake pan and bake in a very moderate oven 
^o minutes or till brown. Spread on a plate to cool. 



PREPARING POTATOES. 



Practical Propositions to Ponder Previous to Pre- 
PARiNr. Potatoes to Please Particular People. 



A good potato, when cut, will show a light cream 
color, and a white froth will be the result of rubbing 
the cut surfaces together. Reject that variety where 
drops of water appear. Another test is to put potatoes 
into a solution of salt; the good will sink, the poor 
float. The juice of the potato is disagreeable, if not 
absolutely poisonous, and should always be removed. 
This poisonous element escapes in the steam when ihr 
potato is baked, and remains in the water where they 
are boiled; hence that should not be used for yeast, as 
is sometimes recommended, or for any food. 

For soups, etc., potatoes should be sliced, covered 
with cold water and allowed to stand some time before 
using. The water draws out the juice, and keeps the 
slices from turning dark, as they would if exposed to 
the air, it also extracts the starch from the little albu- 
minous cells, opened by cutting, which is desirable to 
render fried potatoes crisp. 

Sc ect those of uniform size to cook together, unless 
it is desired to have some done before the others. 
Much of the saline virtue of the potato is lost by re- 
moving the skins before boiling; still, when old, an 
equal advantage is gained if, after paring, the vegeta- 
bles are left in the water. Cook in boiling salted wa- 
ter, not allowing the boiling to stop when once begun 
until the potatoes are done; then pour off the water, 
uncover the kettle, allowing the steam to escape, there- 
by rendering the potatoes mealy. 

The secret in mashing potatoes is to have all the 
utensils used, as hot as possible, and to beat the mass 
till light instead of pressing down smooth and solid, 
adding cream, butter and salt at will. A desirable re- 
sult is reached by rubbing the mashed potato through 
a hot colander and leaving it just as it falls into the 
dish. 

Baked potatoes should be served the minute they 
are done; better serve with a bone in them than wait 
till they become soggy. The average oven does not 
heat as quickly as water on top of the stove will boil, 
so when baked potatoes are wanted in a hurry they 
may be partially boiled then put in the oven to finish. 

During the cold weather it is quite as well to wash 
a week's supply of potatoes at once as only enough 
for one meal; a short broom will shorten this process. 
After washing, dry well, and keep in a cool, dry place. 
The potato is a valuable agent for clarifying fat of any 
kind and absorbing unpleasant odors. Put thin slices 
in the fat and fry till crisp and brown, then strain the 
fat and it will be ready for use. A few slices in each 
kettleful will keep the odor of doughnuts, etc., from 
penetrating the house, and prevent the fat from burn- 
ing. Grated, scalded with boiling water and strained, 
potatoes make an excellent starch for dark fabrics. 



The juice is recommended for chilblains. Instances 
are given where flowers have been sent long distances, 
kept fresh, in a hollowed potato. — Anna Borrows in 
Good Hou Si keeping. 



CHICKENS, GEESE AND DUCKS. 



How riii;\ Should he Carved. 



To carve a chicken, begin by sticking a fork in the 
pinion, and drawing it toward the leg, and passing the 
knife underneath, taking the wing off at the joint. 
Then slip the knife between the leg and the body, to 
cut through the joint, and with the fork turn the leg 
back, and the joint will give way. Next take off the 
other wing and leg. If the chicken has been trussed 
with the liver and gizzard, help a piece of each with 
the wing. After the joints are cut off, enter the knife 
into the top of the breast, and cut under the merry- 
thought so as to loosen it, lifting it with the fork. Cut 
slices from both sides of the breast, then separate the 
side bones from the back. The breast and wings are 
considered the most delicate parts of the chicken, the 
back the least desirable. 

To carve a goose, separate the leg from the body by 
putting the fork into the small end of the limb, press- 
ing close to the body, and then passing the knife under 
and turning the leg back as the joint is cut through. 
To take off the wing, put the fork into the small end of 
the pinion, and slip the knife under, separating the 
joint. Then cut under the breast bone and take it off, 
and cut slices from the breast. Ne.xt turn the goose 
over and dismember the other side. Take on the up- 
per side bones, next the wings, and then the lower side 
bones. The breast and legs of a goose are the choice 
pieces. 

In carving a duck, place the head to" the right, cut 
off the wing nearest first, then the leg and second 
joint, then slices of the breast until the bone appears; 
insert the knife between the bone and flesh and sepa- 
rate them. This is the choicest bit of a duck. The 
side bone lies beside the rump, and it can be taken out 
without separating the whole bone. Next turn the 
duck, and proceed in the same way as upon the other 
side. The lower part of the leg of a duck is hard and 
stringy and is never helped, but allowed to remain on 
the dish. 

Partridge, pheasant, pigeon and grouse are carved 
in the same manner as chicken. Quail, woodcock and 
snipe are merely split down the back with a sharp thin 
knife — so also are all small birds — giving half to each 
person. 

In helping plates to gravy or sauce, never pour it 
over the meat, fowl or fish, but put it aside on the 
plate. — Mrs, Eliza K. Parker in Good Housekeeping, 



SARDINE SANDWICHES. 



These sandwiches may be made with bread or crack- 
ers. Drain off the oil; lay the sardines on soft paper 
to absorb all the oil possible. Pick over with silver 
knife and fork, removing the bones, etc., and mincing 
fine. For a box of sardines, use the juice of a small 
lemon, and one or two teaspoonfuls of melted butter, 
a speck of cayenne pepper, and salt. Sometimes the 
mixture is rubbed through a sieve, but that is not 
necessary in every case. Spread the bread or crack- 
ers with this paste. Oil would be preferred to melted 
butter by many, and sometimes a slice of ripe tomato 
is put in each sandwich. 



FRIDAY, 



JAN. 



27 



Breskftl5t.^Hoininy with Cream. Hashed Mutton. 

Bread and Butter. Doughnuts. Coffee, 
Dinner. —Broiled Steak. Mushroom Sauce. Creamed Potatoes. 

Lettuce. Bread and Butter. Cottage Pudding. 
Sm>per.— Welsh Rarebit. Bread and Butter. Currant Jam. Cake. 



»upper 

Tea, 



Mushroom Sauce. — To i pint of hot water add 2 tablespoonfuls 
butter, 1 tablespoonful flour, stir until thickened, season to taste 
and then add 54 can mushrooms. Boil again. 



SATURDAY, JAN. 



28 



Breakfast. — Quaker Oats with Cream. Boiled Eggs. 

Warmed Potatoes. Bread and Butter. Coffee. 
Dinner. — Corned Beef. Cabbage. Beets. Potatoes, Bread and 

Butter. Apple Float. 
Supper — Cold Corned Beef. Stewed Prunes, Cake. Cocoa. 

Stewed Prunes. — Wash carefully, put them into a porcelain 
kettle with boiling water to cover them. Add juice of '.-b a lemon 
and K ^ cup of sugar for a pound of fruit. Boil until the prunes 
are swollen and tender. 



SUNDAY, 



JAN. 



29 



Breakfast. — California Breakfast Food with Cream. 

Fried Perch. Fried Potatoes, Corn Bread. Coffee. 
Dinner. — Chicken Pot Pie. Mashed Potatoes. Asparagus. Bread 

and Butter. Custard Pie. Cheese. Coffee. 
Supper.— Creamed Toast. Canned Pears. Cake. Chocolate. 

Corn Bread. — 2 cups corn meal, i cup flour, 2 tablespoonfuls 
melted butter, i teaspoonful salt 3 teaspoonfuls baking powder, 
3 eggs well beaten, 3 cups sweet milk. Bakein shallow tins. 



MONDAY, 



JAN. 



30 



Breakfast. — Oranges. Warmed over Chicken Pie. 

Fried Potatoes. Bread and Butter. Coffee, 
Dinner. —Pork Chops. Apple Sauce. Bulled Rice. White Baked 

Potatoes. Bread and Butter. Steamed Pudding. 
Supper.— Cheese. Rice Croquettes with Maple Syrup. Chocolate 

Cake. Tea. 

Rice CrOqOHTTes,— Take one half cup cold boiled rice, beat in 
two eggs, two Sjpoonfuls sugar, one teaspoonful salt. Form into 
balls, dust with fine rolled cracker crumbs, roll in beaten eggs dust 
again with cracker crumbs and fry in boiling hot lard till a nice 
brown. 



TUESDAY, JAN. 



-Oranges. Boiled Eggs, Warmed Po- 
Co~ 



31 



Breakfest.- 

tatoes. Hot Buttered Toast Coffee. 
Dinner.- Beef Stew with Dumplings. Boiled White Potatoes. 

Turnips. Bread and Butter. Jelly Crackers. 
Supper. — Sardines with Sliced Lemon. Bread and Butter. Stewed 

Prunes. Cake. Chocolate. 



Jellv Crackers, — Place split crackers on a plate and on each 
put a bit of jelly; grate on nutmeg and just before serving pour over 
the whole a pint or more of scalding milk seasoned with vanilla. 



FRIED BREAKFAST VEGETABLES. 

Fried potatoes, hominy and mush aside, the ordina- 
ry American breakfast is destitute of vegetables. In 
the Southern and Middle states some cooks have be- 
come acquainted with the merits of fried or broiled 
tomatoes as a breakfast dish, and sometimes egg-plant 
is so served. As a matter of fact a vegetable properly 
fried is a great help toward an economical breakfast, 
giving the zest called for by a languid appetite when 
meat seems too substantial. A very narrow list will 
allow for the change of seasons, variety being secured 
by alternating the methods of frying ; for instance, 
one morning rolling the vegetable in dry flour seasoned 
with salt and pepper, and frying it in only just fat 
enough to prevent burning; the next time breading it 
and frying it like doughnuts; another day frying it in 
batter. Summer and winter squash, pumpkin, sugar 
beets, egg-plant, potatoes, cucumbers, parsnips, oy- 
ster-plant, green corn, green and ripe tomatoes ; any 
boiled vegetables remaining from dinner, minced and 
warmed with a little cream or butter, or heated in 
white sauce, make an agreeable variety for breakfast, 
and dispose of portions not large enough to serve at 
dinner the second time. — Good Housekeeping. 



Worcestershire sauce mixed with the " juice of 
iDutton chops" is said to improve them very materi- 
ally. 



COFFEE DROPS. 



For this fashionable candy you require extract of 
coffee, which is made as follows : Grind a tablespoon- 
ful of finest Java coffee as fine as corn meal. Set a 
small funnel in a cup; put the coffee on a piece of fine 
flannel, and place this in the funnel. Pour rather over 
a quarter of a pint of water slowly through the coffee, 
taking care to moisten it all. The process should take 
place on the stove, and the cup, if not of tin, should 
have been made hot; gently press the flannel to get out 
all the extract you can, and then pour what has run 
into the cup back through the coffee; press it again, 
but do not squeeze, or the extract will be thick. 

This is the extract. Although there is only a very 
little dark liquid it will flavor a good deal of candy. 
There are two ways of making the drops. I will give 
you both. 

No. i.-Take a large tablespoonful of almond paste and 
one of confectioners' sugar; then pour coffee extract, 
drop by drop, till the sugar forms a stiff paste; blend 
with the almond till they are equally mixed. If too 
wet, use more sugar, just as you would use flour if 
you were working dough; make into small balls or al- 
mond-shaped rolls, and dip as hereafter directed. 

No. 2. — Take some firm fondant candy; add enough 
coffee extract to flavor it rather strongly, then work in 
enough confectioners' sugartomake it again into a stiff 
paste. Make this into balls or little rolls, and dip. 

Coffee Cream for Covering. — Melt fondant in a cup 
or bowl set into boiling water, — the fondant must be 
very firm; — pour into it a few drops of coffee to make 
it a rich, dark cream color, and stir over the fire till it 
is smooth and liquid; if, after dipping one or two, it 
seems too thin, which you can tell by its running off 
the candy and forming a little circle round it on the 
paper, let it cool, then put it back on the stove; to 
save waiting, have a kettle of water boiling, and put 
fresh boiling water into the saucepan as you need it; 
stir the candy till the water bubbles round it, and it is 
creamy again, then dip the coffee balls. 

For these, as for most other creamed candies, it is 
better to dip them twice. If you decide only to do them 
once, you must be careful that they are thoroughly 
covered and very neatly turned off your fork. 



TEA DROPS 



Are very popular in Paris, but less known here. For 
them you have to make the extract, using two tea- 
spoonfuls of English breakfast tea and one of gun- 
powder; steep them seven minutes in a gill of boiling 
water, then filter through flannel. You can, if you 
prefer, use Oolong tea for the extract. Use the tea ex- 
tract exactly as directed for coffee drops. 



COCOAr^lJT CREAM DROPS. 

Take an equal quantity of cream candy and of des- 
sicated cocoanut; work them together, and, when the 
nut is all incorporated, break small pieces from the 
mass and make them into small balls. Melt cream 
candy in a vessel standing in boiling water, stirring 
until it is like thick cream; color pink, if you desire it 
— although white is better, — and flavor with lemon or 
vanilla very slightly, so as not to cover the delicate co- 
coanut flavor. Dip each ball in the melted cream can- 
dy, and turn neatly on the waxed paper. 



THURSDAY, 



NOV. 



16 



Breakfast— California Breakfast Food with Cream. 

Stewed Kidney. Bread and Butter. Coffee. 
Dinner— Fricassee Lamb. Potatoes. Canned Peas. Bread and 

Butter, Pumpkin Pic. 
Supper — Minced Lamb on Toast. Crumpets. Butter. Fruit. 

take. Tea. 

PrMiKiN PiR. — Cut the pumpkin in smnTi pieces and cook slow- 
ly in just enough saUed water t" coverf^areiully avoiding scorch- 
ing. When dry and mealy it i9»done. Rub through a colander and 
reduce to the proper consistency with rich milk, sweeten and spice 
to taste. Bake in a hot oven wiili an under crust only, till a rich 
polden brown. 



FRIDAY, 



NOV. 



17 



Breakfast— Wheat Germ with Cream. Lamb Chops. 

Fried Potatoes. Corn. Bread and Butter. Coffee. 
Dinner — Fish Chowder. Canned Corn. Celery Salad. Bread and 

Butter. Fresh Fruit. 
Supper— Bread Sauted with Maple Syrup. Hot Baked Apples. 

Cake. Chocolate, 

Celery Salad, — Two bunches of celery, 2 tablespoonfuls olive 
oil, 2 of vinegar, salt and pepper. Wash and scrape the celery and 
lay it in cold water for an hour. Chop coarsely and put in a salad 
bowl, add the dressing slowly and mix thoroughly, putting in the 
vinegar last. Garnish with olives and the light celery tops. 



SATURDAY, 



NOV. 



18 



Breakfast— Oatmeal with Cream. Warmed-over 
Chowder. Bread and Butter. Buckwheat Cakes. 
Maple Syrup. Coffee. 

Dinner— Broiled Beef Steak. Mashed Potatoes. Stewed Toma- 
toes. Bread and Butter. Apple Pie. Cheese. 

Supper— Baked Beans. Boston Brown Bread. Stewed Fruit. 
Currant Cake. Tea. 

Currant Cake. — 2 eggs, Jj cup butter beaten to a cream, i 
cup sugar, ^3 cup milk, a little salt, 2 cups flour, % teaspoonlul 
soda in milk, i teaspoonful cream tartar, i cup washed currants 
well floured, K teaspoonful cinnamon, % teaspoonful cloves, % tea- 
spoonful nutmeg. 



SUNDAY, 



NOV. 



19 



Breakfast— Hominy with Cream. Fried Oysters. 

Creamed Potatoes. Breakfast Puffs. Coffee. 
Dinner— Roast Beef. Gravy. Browned Baked Potatoes. Turnip. 

Celery. Macaroon Pudding, 
Supper— Sliced Roast Beef. Thin Bread and Butter. Cake. Jam. 

Cocoa. 

Roast Beef.— Roast 10 pounds 1% hours in a hot oven; 6 lbs. 
I hour. Pour into the pan hot water about )4 inch in depth, baste 
often in the dripping'. When done sprinkle over it i tablespoon of 
salt, moisten with dripping to dissolve salt, place on a hot platter, 
and serve at once. 



MONDAY, 



NOV. 



Breakfast- 

with Maple Syrup 



-Fluffy Egg on Toast. Hominy Cakes 
Syrup. Doughnuts. Coffee. 
Dinner— Beef Soup with Crackers. Scalloped Beef. Squash. 



20 



Sweet Potato Croquettes. 
Supper— Welsh Rare Bit. 



Bread and Butter. Suet Pudding. 
Bread and Butter. Jelly. Cake. Te 



Sweet Potato Croquettes.— i pint sweet potato pulp. Boil 
and evaporate the water quickly so that the potato may be mealy. 
Press through a colander into a warm bowl, add % cup of cream, 
piece of butter size of English walnut, a little salt, % cup sugar, 
Jt teaspoonful vanilla, orange rind to flavor, yolks of 2 eggs. Mix 
with a fork. Take portions of the mixture and roll into balls, han- 
dle lightly and quickly, dip them in egg, then in crumbs. Place in 
a wire basket and brown in smoking hot fat. Drain on tissue paper. 



TUESDAY, 



NOV. 



21 



Breakfast— Wheat Germ with Cream. Baked Sau- 
sage. Bread and Butter. Doughnuts. Coffee. 

Dinner— Roast Veal. Gravy. Potatoes. Curried Rice. Bread 
and Butter. Apple Snow. 

Supper— Sliced Cold Veal. Thin Bread and Butter. Stewed 
!• ruit. Bolivars. Cocoa. 



Bolivars.— I pint good molasses, % cup sugar, i cup sour milk, 
1 cup shortening, i tablespoonful soda dissolved in hot water. Mix 
these ingredients together, then add flour, a little at a time until 
stiff enough to drop from the end of a spoon on to well-greased 
pan. 



WEDNESDAY, NOV. 



22 



Breakfast-California Breakfast Food with Cream. 

Minced Veal on Toast. Bread and Butter. Coffee. 
Dinner -Pork Chops. Milk Gravy. Potatoes. Stewed Celery. 

Bread and Butter. Jelly Crackers. 
Supper— Salmon Patties. Steamed Bread. Butter. Stewed Fruit. 

Cake. Cocoa. • 

Milk Grav^*. — i pint sweet milk and 2 teaspoonfuls white flour. 
Dissolve the Hour in a little cold milk and stir into the hot milk. 
Season highly and stir until smooth. 

When preparing for a picnic, remember that a com- 
bination of bread and cake does not form an agreea- 
ble sandwich ; therefore pack them separately. Also 
remember that sandwiches dry quickly, and are often 
broken by careless handling. 



THURSDAY, 



NOV. 



23 



Breakfast— Oatmeal with Cream. Creamed Salmon 

on Toast. Hot Rolls. Coffee. 
Dinner— Broiled Beef Steak. Potatoes. Squash, Bread and 

Butter. Mince Pie. Cheese. 
Supper— Bread Omelet. Hot Buttered Toast. Cturant Jelly. 

Graham Crackers. Chocolate. 

Graham Crackers, — Yf, cup butter, i cup sugar, white of i 
egg, all well beaten together, i teaspoonful cream tartar, yi tea- 
spoonful soda. % cup cold w^ater, and enough Graham flour to 
knead and roll thin, cut in squares, prick with a fork and then bake 
quickly until done crisp. 



FRIDAY, 



NOV. 



24 



Breakfast— Hominy with Cream. Scrambled Eggs. 

Hot Buttered Toast. Doughnuts. Coffee. 
Dinner— Fried Halibut. Boiled Potatoes. Stewed Tomatoes. 

Bread and Butter. Oranges. 
Supper— Oyster Patties. Thin Bread and Butter. Jam. Cake. 

Tea. 

■ Oyster Patties.— Make a rich pie crust and put in a cool place. 
Make Creamed Oysters, then roll out the crust quickly and line 
small patty-pans with it, put three or four oysters in each with as 
much sauce as they will hold, and then cover with a top crust and 
bake 20 minutes in a quick oven. Glaze over the top with a little 
sweet milk, and set back in the oven for 5 minutes. 



SATURDAY, 



NOV. 



25 



Breakfast— Fish Hash. Bread and Butter. Buck- 
wheat Cakes. Maple Syrup. Coffee. 

Dinner — Broiled Slice of Ham. Baked White and Sweet Potatoes. 
Bread and Butter. Pumpkin Pie. Cheese. 

Supper— Scalloped Potatoes. Corn Bread. Butter. Canned 
Fruit. Fig Cake. Cocoa. 

Fig Cake — j.% cups sugar, 2 cups flour, % cup milk, % cup but- 
ter, 2 eggs, 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder. Bake in jelly tins. Fiii- 
ing. —Take J4 pound tigs, J4 cup water, % cup sugar. Let figs 
soak in some water; let sugar and % cup water boil 4 or 5 minutes, 
not too hard. Chop the soaked figs anci mix well with the boiJed 
sugar and water and spread between cake layers. 



SUNDAY, 



NOV. 



26 



Breakfast— California Breakfast Food with Cream. 
Fried Smplts. Fried Potatoes. Hot Rolls. Coffee. 

Dinner— Fricassee Chicken. Mashed White Potatoes. Squash. 
Cranberry Sauce. Celery. Bread and Butter. Orange Char- 
lotte. 

Supper— Celery Salad. Thin Breadaod Butter. Canned Cherries. 
Sponge Cake. Tea. 

Orange Charlotte,— This is made of the grated rind of 2 or- 
rages and the juice of 6, i cup sugar, 3-3 box gelatine, 2 quarts 
whipped and drained cream, y^ cup water and lady fingers. Soak 
the gelatine for 2 hours in J^ cup cold water. Grate the rind (only 
yellow part,) into a bowl and squeeze the juice of 6 oranges on it. 
Whip the cream and let drain, split the lady fingers and line a three 
pint mould. Now pour upon the gelatine 3-i cup boiling water, stir 
till dissolved, then pour upon orange juice, strain this mixture into 
a granite pan, and place on ice and stir constantly till it begins to 
thicken, then add the whipped cream gradually, stir all the time 
from the bottom of pan. After a little stirring, pour :nto the mould, 
set away to harden. When ready to serve, turn out on a flat dish. 

Maria Parloa. 



MONDAY, 



NOV. 



27 



Breakfast — Oranges. Warmed over Chicken, 

Bread and Butter. Doughnuts. Coffee. 
Dinner— Pork Chops. Potatoes. Boiled Rice. Bread and Butter. 

Steamed Pudding. 
Supper— Cheese Crackers. Rice Croquettes with Maple Syrup. 

Cake. Stewed Apples. Tea. 

Stewed Apfles. — Make a syrup with i cup sugar and i cup 
water. Boil slowly for 10 minutes then skim, pare, core and quarter 
\o tart apples, cook until soft in the syrup, take them out carefully 
lest they be broken. Boil the syrup till almost a jelly and pour over 
the apples. Serve cold. If liked, the syrup may be flavored with 
lemon juice. 



TUESDAY, 



NOV. 

Buck- 



28 



Breakfast— Oatmeal with Cream. Sausage. 

wheat Cakes. Bread and Butter. Coffee. 
Dinner— Barley Broth. Broiled Meat Cakes. Potatoes. Turnips. 

Bread and Butter. Apple Pie. Cheese. 
Supper— Welsh Rare Bit. Bread and Butter. Canned Raspberries. 

Cake. Tea. 

Barlev Broth,— Take a soup bone and boil slowly until the 
meat about it is in rags. Wash 1 pint barley and soak i hour in cold 
water, set in a warm place. Add this to the broth \\i hours before 
serving and cook all together. Salt to taste, and % pint milk added 
just before serving, improves the flavor. 



WEDNESDAY, NOV. 



29 



Breakfast— California Breakfast Food with Cream. 

Stewed Kidney. Breakfast Puffs. Coffee. 
Dinner— Mutton Chops. Baked Potatoes. Canned Peas. Bread 

and Butter. Banana Pudding. 
Supper— Chipped Beef. Bread and Butter. Hot Baked Apples; 

Cake. Cocoa. 

Banana Pudding, — Lay in a pudding dish slices of spongecake. 
Pour over boiled custard with sliced bananas. Cover with soft 
frosting, made of whites of the eggs left from custard. 



WEDNESDAY, FEB. -f 

Breakfast. — California Breakfast Food with Cream. I 
Broiled Mutton Chops. Bread and Butter. Coffee. ■*■ 

Dinfier. — Pot Roast Beef. Boiled White Potatoes. Turnips. 
Bread and Butter. Cottage Pudding. 

Supper.— Cold Sliced Beef. Bread and Butter. Hot Baked Ap- 
ples. Cake. Cocoa. 

Pot Roast. — Take a lean piece of beef, cut a little fat from it 
and fry in an iron pot until all sides are brown, but be careful not 
to burn. Pour in not water to half cover the beef, cover tightly 
and cook until tender. Make a rich gravy. 

THURSDAY, FEB. A 

Breakfast.— Hominy with Cream. Hash. Hot Rolls. ^^^ 

Coffee. ^■^ 

Dinner.— Broiled Sliceof Ham. Baked Whiteand Sweet Potatoes. 

Celery. Bread and Butter. Oranges. 
Supper'.— Oyster Stew with Crackers. Canned Peaches. Cake. 

Tea. 

Oyster Stew. — i quart oysters, i piht milk, i tablespoonful 
butter, 2 tablespoonfuls flour, salt to taste, J^ saltspoonful pepper. 
Put the milk on to boil in a double boiler. Put the oysters in a 
colander and drain off the liquor, add a cup of water, boil and re- 
move scum. When clear add the oysters and milk, season. Cook 
until the oysters grow plump and the edges begin to curl. 



FRIDAY, 



FEB. 



Breakfast.— Oatmeal with Cream. Boiled Eggs. Hot ^^m 
Buttered Toast. Coffee. ^B^ 

Dinner.— Fish Chowder. Crackers. Celery. Pickles. Figs and 
Dates. 

Supper. — Creamed Potatoes. Bread and Butter. Apple Sauce. 
Plain Cake. Chocolate. 

Fish Chowder. — Three or four pounds fresh haddock carefully 
cleaned and cut in pieces three inches square. Place in bottom of 
kettle five or six slices salt pork, fry brown, then add three onions 
sliced thin, fry them brown. Remove from the fire and place on 
the pork and onions, a layer of fish, sprinkle with pepper and salt 
then a layer of peeled sliced potatoes, then fish and potatoes till fish 
is used up. Cover with water and let boil for half an hour. Roll 
six crackers, put in with fish and lastly add a pint or more of milk. 
Let it get thoroughly heated and serve. 



SATURDAY, 



FEB. 



4 



Breakfast. — California Breakfast Food with Cream. 

VVarmed over Fish Chowder. Bread and Butter. Coffee. 
Dinner. — Broiled Beef Steak. Squash. White Potatoes. Bread 

and Butter. Hot Apple Pie with Cheese. 
Supper.- Baked Beans. Boston Brown Bread. Canned Fruit. 

Cake. 

Rule Fok Wh[te Bread. — i pint milk, scalded and cooled, i 
tablespoonful of lard, melted in the hot milk, i tablespoonful sugar, 
I teaspoonful salt, J^ yeast cake dissolved in ^ cup luke warm 
water, 6 or 7 cups flour. After scalding the milk, add lard, sugar, 
and salt. When luke warm, add yeast, and then stir in the flour, 
being careful not to make it too stiff, use just enough to knead it. 
Knead till smooth and elastic. Cover, let it rise till light cut it 
down, divide into four parts, shape into loaves or biscuits. Let it 
rise again in the pans. Bake forty or fifty minutes. 



SUNDAY, 



FEB. 

Little Pigs in 



Breakfast.— Wheat Germ with Cream. 

Bhinkets. Hot Buttered Toast. Coffee. ■^^' 

Dinner.— Boiled Leg of Mutton with Caper Sauce. Mashed White 
Potatoe. Turnip. Celery. Bread and Butter. Mince Pie. 

("heese. 

Supper. — Cold Meat Sliced Thin. Crackers. Cheese. Stewed 
Apricots. Delicate Cake. Tea, 

Little Pics in Blankets.— Take as many large oysters as are 
wished, wash and dry them thoroughly with a clean towel. Have 
some fat bacon, cut in very thin slices, cover each oyster with them 
and pin on with wooden tooth-picks. Broil or roast them until the 
bacon is crisp and brown. Do not remove tooth-picks. Serve hot. 



MONDAY. 



FEB. 



6 



Breakfast.— Oatmeal with Cream. Buckwheat Cakes 
with Maple Syrup. Bread and Butter. Coffee. 

Dinner. — Meat Pie, (made of cold mutton) Baked Sweet Potatoes. 
<.'.inned Tomatoes. Bread and Butter. Rice Pudding. 

Supper.— Milk Toast. Hot Baked Apples. Bread and Butter. 
Lrtke. Tea. 



Rice Pudding. — Take one teacup of rice, wash, pour boiling 
water over it and let it stand five minutes ; throw off, add a cup of 
sugar, a Utile nutmeg and two quarts of milk. Bake slowly about 
two hours, stirring occasionally until last half hour then brown. 



TUESDAY, 



FEB. 



Breakfa5t.— Oranges. Fried Sausages. Warmed Pota- ■ 
toes. Bread and Butter. Coffee. ^ 

Dinner.- Broiled Beef Steak. Turnips. White Potatoes. Bread 
and Butter. Baked Apple Dumplings. 

Supper.— Macaroni with Cheese. Bread and Butter. Chocolate. 
Canned Peaches. Cake. 

Baked Api-le Dumplings. — One quart flour, two teaspoonfuls 
baking powder, one-half teaspoonful salt mixed well together. 
Add one large tablespoonful butter and lard mixed, and enough 
sweet milk or water to make a soft dough. Roll out into half inch 
sheets. Peel and quarter some good tart apples, put each quarter 
on a square of dough, sprinkle over it sugar and pinch the edges 
together firmly. Bake until the crust is brownand the apples soft. 



WEDNESDAY, FEB. 



Hot 



8 



Cel- 



Breakfast.- Oatmeal with Cruam. Scrambled Eggs, 
• Buttered Toast. Coffee. 

Dinner. — Roast Beef. Gravy. Browned Baked Potatoes, 
ery. Bread and Butter. Indian Pudding. 

Supper.— Cold Roast Beef Sliced Very Thin. Warmed Over Po- 
tatoes. Currant Jelly. Chocolate Cake. Tea. 

Scrambled Eggs.— Beat four eggs slightly with a fork ; add 
half a teaspoonful of salt, half a saltspoonful of pepper aud half a 
cup of milk. Turn into a hot buttered frying pan and cook quickly 
stirring all the time till the egg is firm but soft. Serve at once. 
It is very nice served on toast or on hot minced ham or veal. 



THURSDAY, 



FEB. 



Breakfast. — Oranges. Boiled Eggs. Potatoes Warmed mW 
in the Pork Gravy. Puffs. Coffee. ^^ 

Dinner.— Broiled Beef Steak. Baked White and Sweet Potatoes, 
Bread and Butter. Boiled Rice, Served with Cream. 

Supper.- Cold Roast Pork. Crab Apple Jelly. Fried Sweet Pota- 
toes. Bread and Butter. Cake. Chocolate. 

Breakfast Puffs. —One egg, (well beaten), one cup of milk, a 
little salt, one cup flour. Beat the batter Tery light. Bake in a hot 
oven in /lot roll pans. 



FRIDAY, 



FEB. 



10 



Breakfast. -Hominy with Cream. Fried Liver and 
Bacon. Warmed Potatoe. Bread and Butter. 
Coffee. 

Dinner.— Baked Haddock. Baked White and Sweet Potatoes. 
Celery. Bread and Butter. Lemon Wafers. Salted Peanuts. 

Supper. —Creamed Fish (made of cold haddock). Bread and But- 
ter. Canned Blue Berries. Cake. Tea. 

Liver and Bacon. — Soak the liver a few minutes in boiling 
water to draw out the blood. Drain, remove the thin skin and veins. 
Cut into slices, season with salt and pepper, roll in flour and fry 
with thin slices of fat bacon. Drain and serve with a brown gravy 
seasoned with onion, lemon juice or vinegar. 



SATURDAY, FEB. 



II 



Breakfast.— Oatmeal with Cream. Hominy Cakes 

with Mai>le Syrup. Bread and Butter. Coffee. 
Dinner. — Broiled Mutton Chops,- lUi^shed White Potatoe. Fried 

Parsnips. Bread and Butter. Pumpkin Pie. 
Supper.— Scalloped Oysters. Bread and Butter. Cut up Oranges. 

Locoanut Cake. Cocoa. 



Hf)MiNV Cakes. — i cup sweet milk, i cup boiled hominv, yi tea- 
spoonful salt, 2 eggs, I tablespoonful melted butter, flour enough 
to make a thin batter. 



SUNDAY, 



FEB. 



12 



Breakfast.- California Breakfast Food with Cream. 
Fried Smelts. Hot Rolls. Coffee. 

Dinner.— Roast Turkey. Gravy. Cranberry Sauce. Boiled On- 
ions. Mashed White Potatoe. Celery. Bread and Butter. Ap- 
ple Pie. Cheese. 

5upper.— Cold Sliced Turkey. Bread and Butter. Canned Pears. 
Cocoanut Cake. Tea. 

Roast Turkey. — Stuff with soft breadcrumbs, highly seasoned 
with sage, thyme, salt arid pepper. Moisten with half a cup of 
melted butter ; add hot water enough to make it quite moist. Oys- 
ters make a pleasing variety. Put the turkey on a rack in a pan, 
rub well with butter, and dredge wiih salt, pepper and flour. Put 
it in a hot oven, and when browned reduce the heat and add a pint 
of water. Baste often. Allow three hours for an eight pound tur- 
key to cook. 

Gka\ V, — Put the giblets on to boil in one quart of water and boll 
till tender. Chop, pour off the rich fat from the pan in which the 
lui-key was cooked, put on the stove and when hot, add the water 
in which the giblets werecooki d. Moisten a tablespoonful of flour 
in cold water, add to the gravy and stir until it is a rich, thick brown. 



MONDAY, 



FEB. 



t3 



Breakfast. — Oatmeal and Cream. Sausage. 

Warmed Potatoe. Bread Butter, Coffee. 
Dinner. — Cold Turkey. Potatoes, Warmed in the Turkey Gravy. 

Cranberry Sauce. Celery. Bread and Butter. Mince Pie with 

Cheese. 

Supper.— Salmon Patties. Bread and Butter. Crab Apple Sauce. 

Cocoanut Cake. Tea. 

Salmon Patties. — Make a thick cream sauce. (Rule given 
Monday, Jan. 9th.) Mi.x with it half a can of salmon. Bake m in- 
dividual baking shells. Sprinkle fine cracker crumbs over the top 
and bake twenty minutes, or till the crumbs are brown. This rule 
will make si.x shells. Put the remainder of the salmon on a dish, 
for if left in the tin can it is not fit for use. 



TUESDAY, FEB. 



14 



Breakfast. — Hominy and Cream. Creamed Salmon. 
(Cream Fish, rule Jan. 7th.) Hot Rolls. Coffee. 

Dinner.- Roast Pork. Gravy. Mashed White Potatoe. Turnip. 
Apple Sauce. Bread and Butter, Snow Pudding. 

Suppler.— Cold Roast Pork. Hot Baked Apples. Bread and But- 
ter. Cake. Tea. 

Snow Piiddinc— White part. — i pint milk, 2j^ tablespoonfuls 
of corn starch, 3 tablespoonfuls of sugar, flavor with salt and 
vanilla. Boil all together, add the whites of three eggs (well 
beaten) pour into moulds. 

Ci'^TARD. —Yolks of 3 eggs, i pint of milk. 3 tablespoonfuls of 
sugar, J^ tablespoonful of corn starch, a little salt and nutmeg. 
Serve when ice cold and pour the custard over the snow. 



WEDNESDAY, 



NOV. 



Breakfast — Baked Apples wiih Cream. Baked Eggs. ■ 
Hot Rol!s. Doughnuts. Coffee. -^^ 

Dinner— Corned Beef. Cabbage. Potatoes. Beets. Bread and 

Butter. Indian Pudding. 
Supper— Sliced Corned Beef. Bread and Butter. Canned Berries. 

Cake. Tea. 

Bhhts. — Wash clean, but do not cut them. Cook in boiling 
salted water , allow i hour for summer and 3 hours fur winter beets. 
When cooked, put them in cold water, rub off the skin and slice 
them, cover them with a dressing made of hot seasoned vinegar, in 
which has been dissolved a lump of butter. 



THURSDAY, 



NOV. 



Beet Hash. 



Bread and 
Stewed ■ 



Breakfast— Oatmeal with Cream 

Butter. Coffee. 
Dinner^Mutton Cutlets au Fromage. Potatoes, 

ti>es. Bread and Butter. Squash Pic. 
Supper— Scalloped Potatoes. Bread and Butter. Stewed 

Cake. Cocoa. 

Siii'ASH Pie. — i pint dry and mealy squash. % cup hot 
egg, well beaten, a little salt ; sweeten and spice to taste, 
makes one pic. 



Pears. 

milk, I 
This 



FRIDAY, 



NOV. 



Tur- 
Cake. 



Breakfast— Baked Pears, Ha-^hed Mutton on Toas*. Po- 
tato Rolls. Doughnuts. Coffee. 
Dinner— Baked Cod. Hollandaise Sauce. Boiled Potatoes. 

nips. Bread and Butter. Grapes and Bananas. 
Supper— Cheese Crackers. Steamed Bread. Canned Fruit. 

Chocolate. • 

PoT,\TO Roi,LS.~Mash or grate (very fine) cold boiled potatoes, 
to 1% cups potato add li cup nutter, i egg beaten light, i table- 
spoonful flour, % teaspoonful baking powder, % cup sweet milk, 
pepper and salt. Beat well together, and bake in gem pans. 



SATURDAY, 



NOV. 



Breakfast— Warmed over Fish. Bread and Butter. Buck- 
wheat Cakes. Maple Syrup. Coffee. 

Dinner— Beef Steak. Potatoes. Stewed Tomatoes. Bread and 
Butter. Ar jle Pie. Cheese. 

Supper— Boston Brown Bread. Baked Beans. Fruit. Cake. Tea. 

Buckwheat Cakes. — i cup flour, i of buckwheat flour, i of yeast 
I tablespoon of sugar, and salt to taste. Mix with enough water to 
make a stiff batter and set to rise over night. In the morning add 
water to make the batter run when put on the griddle. When ready 
to bake, add i saltspounful soda, sifted through a fine strainer, beat 
again and fry in cakes. 



SUNDAY, 



NOV. 



Breakfast — Oatmeal ^■, itli Cream. Roast Oysters on Toast. ^^M 

Breakfast Puffs. Cilice. ^^^ 

Dinner- Rabbit Pie. Mashed White Potatoes. Squash. Celery. 
Bread and Butter. Bavarian Cream. 

Supper— Sardines garnished with Lemon. Bread and Butter. 
Fruit. Cocoauut Cream Cake. Tea. 

Rabbit Pie.— Made same as chicken pie. 

CocoA.suT Ckeam Cakk. — Make rule for plain ca' e and bake in 
jelly tins, have three layers. Make a cream same as for cream cake 
and spread on each layer of cake. Grate one large or two small 
cocoanuts, and sprinkle on each layer of cream. Save all you can 
fir the top of cal;e. 



MONDAY, 



NOV. 

Om- 



Breaktast— California Breakfast Food with Cream. 

clct. Hot Buttered Toast. Coffee. ^^ 

Dinner— Beef Stew with Dumplings, Potatoes. Turnip. Bread 

and Butler. Bread Pudding. 
Supper— Salmon Patties. Rye Bread. Butter. Apple Sauce. Cake. 

Tea. 

Rye Bread. — 3 pints rye flour, ^2 cake yeast, i pint new milk, i 
tablespoonful sugar, i teaspoonful salt, lard size of a walnut. Mix 
and then work for 15 minutes. Let it rise over night, then beat and 
cut for 10 minutes. Put the dough in the pans from the bowl with- 
out moulding on board. Let it rise till half as large again. Bake 
in very moderate oven from one-half to three-fourths of an hour. 



TUESDAY, 



NOV. 



Breakfast— Brewis with Cream. Warmed-over Stew. ■ 
Sour Milk Griddle Cakes. Maple Syrup. Coffee. ^ 

Dinner— Mutton Chops. Potatoes. Canned Peas. Bread and 
Butter. Peach Pudding. Use canned fruit. 

Supper- Salmon on Toast. Bread and Butter. Soft Gingerbread. 
Baked Quinces. Tea. 

Soft Gingerbread. — i cup molasses, i teaspoonful soda, i tea- 
spoonful finger, i teaspoonful butler. Beat together and pour on 
J4 cup boiling water, and beat in i pint flour. Bake about i inch 
deep in a sheet. This is very nice, if pains are taken to have the 
water boiling and to beat well. 



WEDNESDAY, 



NOV. 



8 

Bread 



heese. Crumpets. Butter. Fruit. 



Breakfast- Hominy with Cream. Baked Sausage. 

Creamed Potatoes. Bread and Butter. Coffee. 
Dinner— Broiled Beef Steak. Potatoes. Canned Com. 

and Butler Rice i^udding. 
Supper— Macaiuni with ' 

Cake. Tea. 

Baked Sausagk. — Put in a shallow tin and bake in a hot oven 
till brown. Have ready^ a hot meat dish spread with tissue paper, 
place the sausage upon it and put in the oven a minute. Remove 
the paper and serve. In cooking sausage in this manner all the 
grease is tried out and the meat is much more healthful. 



THURSDAY, 



wr. 



Breakfast— Oatmeal with Cream. Baked Eggs. Warmed m^M 
Potatoes. Bread and Butter. Coffee. ^^ 

Dinner— Roast Veal. Curried Rice. Potatoes. Bread and Butter. 
Mince Pie. 

Supper— Cold Sliced Roast Veal. Thin Bread and Butter. Hot 
Baked Apples. Cake. Tea. 



Mince Pie. — i cup chopped meat, 1% cups raisins. 1J2 cups cur- 
rants, 1^/2 cups brown sugar, i V3 molasses, 3 cups chopped apples, i 
cup meat liquor, 2 teaspoonfuls salt, 2 teaspoonfuls cinnamon, J3 
teaspoonful mace, J3 teaspoonful powdered cloves, i lemon, grated 
rind and juice, J^ piece citron, i cup cider. Mix in the order given 
using enough meat liquor to make quite moist, and cook in a porce- 
lain kettle until the apples and raisins are soft. Do not add the ci- 
der until the meat is cooked. 



FRIDAY, 



NOV. 



10 



Breakfast— Hominv with Cream. Minced Veal on 

Toast. Crumb Muffins. Butter. Coffee. 
Dinner— Fried Smelts. Potatoes. Stewed Celery. Cold Slaw. 

Bread and Butler. Bananas. Grapes. 
Supper — Creamed Salt Fish. Bread and Butter. Fruit. Cake. 

Tea. 

Crumb Muffins. — A good way to utilize bits of dry bread and 
crusts is to brown them thoroughly in the oven, then pound line in 
a mortar. To i '2 cups of crumbs add 1 quart sweet milk, 2 well- 
beaten eggs, I teaspof)nful sugar, Jj cup flour. Beat all together 
briskly, and bake in sissing hot gem pans. 



SATURDAY, 



NOV. 



II 



Breakfast— Stewed P''-.rs. Broiled Meat Cakes. 

Bread and Butler. Hominy Griddle Cakes. Maple 

Syrup. Coffee. 
Dinner— Roast Pork. Apple Sauce. Potatoes. Pickles. Bread 

and Butter. Lemon Pie. Cheese. 
Supper— Sliced Pork. Currant Jelly. Bread and Butter. Cake. 

Chocolate. 

Roast Pork. — The spareribs are the best for roasting. Season 
with salt and pepper and dredge with flour. Baste often, and al- 
low 20 minutes to each pound. 



SUNDAY, 



NOV. 



12 



Breakfast— Wheat Germ with Cream. Oyster Om- 
elet. Fried Potatoes. Breakfast Puffs. Coffee. 

Dinner- Chicken Pot-pie. Mashed Potatoes. Baked Sweet Po- 
toioes. Cranberry Sauce. Celery. Bread and Butter. Char- 
lotte Russe. 

Supper— Potato Salad. Bread and Butter, Fruit. Cake. Tea. 

Oyster Omelet. — Beat ^ eggs very light. Cut out the hard 
parts of I dozen oysters. Wipe them dry and cut them into small 
pieces, then throw them into the egg season. Cook as any other 
omelet. 



MONDAY. 



NOV. 



Breakfast— Oatmeal with Cream. 

and Butter. Buckwheat Cakes. 

Coffee. 
Dinner— Corned Beef. Cabbage. 

Butter. Bread and Fruit Puddini 
Supper — Sliced Corned Beef. Rye j 

Tea. 

Rye Biscuit.^8 cups flour, i^ 
sweet milk. ^ tablespoonfuls sugar, 
biscuit and let rise. Before baking, 



13 



Sausage. Bread 
Maple Syrup. 



Potatoes. Beets. Bread and 
Biscuit. Canned Fruit. Cake. 



cups rye, 1 cup yeast, i quart 
salt. When light, make into 
rub melted butter over the top 



TUESDAY, 



NOV. 



14 



Breakfast — Indian Mush with Cream. Beet Hash. 

Hot Buttered Toast. Coffee. 
Dinner— Ragout of Veal. Curried Rice. Potatoes. Bread and 

Butter. Prune Pudding. 
Supper — Cold Sliced Veal. Steamed Bread. Stewed Fruit. Cake. 

Cocoa, 

Prune Pudding. — i pound stewed prunes, whites of 4 eggs, i 
cup sugar after the prunes are stewed, drain off the juice, remove 
t he stones and chop. Beat the whites very stiff, add the sugar grad- 
ually, beating all the time, then stir in the chopped prunes, bake 20 
minutes. Serve cold with whipped cream. 



WEDNESDAY, NOV. 



15 



Breakfast— Minced Veal on Toast. Bread and But- 
ter. Hominy Cakes with Maple Syrup. Coffee. 
Dinner— Broiled Beef Steak. Potatoes. Creamed Carrots. Bread 

and Butter. Cup Custard. 
Supper— Scalloped Potatoes. Bread and Butter. Raised Cake. 

Jam. Tea. 

Raised Cake. — At night mix 1 quart of milk, scalded and cooled, 
I teaspoonful salt, ^ cup yeast, i cup sugar and enough flour to 
make quite a soft dough. In the morning cream i cup butter, add 
another cup of sugar {2 in all), r.pice to taste and 2 eggs. Add this 
mixture to the dough which has been well beaten with the hand. 
Add more flour, making it about as stiff as fruit cake. Before add- 
ing the flour put soda the size of apea in a cup, poui on a little boil- 
ing water and mix in the cake. Then add one cup stoned raisins, 1 
cup currants and J4 cup citron. Flour the fruit, beat thoroughly 
with a spoon, pour in 2 deep cake tins, let stand in a warm place, 
when light bake one hour or till done, in a moderate oven. This 
cake improves by keeping. 

LOBSTER mayonnaise SANDWICM 

Is merely a convenient way of carrying lobster salad 
to a picnic, and is prepared the same as chicken salad. 



WEDNESDAY, FEB. 



15 



Breakfast.— California Breakfast Food wiih Cream. 

Hash. Hot Roils. Coffee. 
Dinner.— Soup. Beef Rolls. Mashed White Potatoe. Stewed 

Canned Corn. Bread and Butter. Oranges. 
5upper. — Cheese. Bread and Butter. Hot Baked Apples. Cream 

Cake. Cocoa. 

Beef Rolls.— Cut thin slices from cold roast beef two and a 
half by four inches long. Chop the trimmings and fat allowing 
one tablespoonful of the chopped mixture for each slice. Season 
lightly with salt, pepper and herbs, and mix with one fourth as much 
cracker crumbs as meat. Spread this on each slice nearly to the 
edge. Roll and tie. Dredge wiih salt pepper and flour and fry 
brown in drippings or salt pork fat ; put in a stew pan and make 
brown gravy by adding two tablespoonfuls of flour to the fat left 
in the pan and when brown pour in one pint of hot water, season, 
pour over the rolls and simmer till they are tender. Remove strings, 
place the rolls on a platter, season the gravy and pour it over them. 



THURSDAY, FEB. 



16 



Breakfast. — California Breakfast Food with 

Cream. Chipped Meat on Toast. Bread and 

Butter. Coffee. 
Dinner. —Corned Beef. Cabbage. White Potatoes. Beets. 

Turnips. Bread and Butter. Cottage Pudding. Lemon Sauce. 
Supper.— Cold Corned Beef. Hot Biscuit. Stewed Prunes. Cake. 

Tea. • 

Cottage Pudding.— 2 heaping cups flour, 2 teaspoonfuls bak- 
ing powder, U teaspoonful salt, 1 egg, ^ cup sugar, t tablespoon- 
fuls melted butter, 1 cup milk. Mix the salt and baking powder 
with the flour. Beat the cgQ, add the sugar, melted butter, milk 
and stir into the flour. 

Lemon Sauce.— 2 cups hot water, i cup sugar, 3 heaping tea- 
spoonfuls corn starch, grated rind and juice of 1 lemon, 1 tablespoon- 
ful butter. Boil the water and sugar five minutes, add the corn 
starch wet in a little cold water. Cook ten minutes, add the lemon 
rind and juice, and butter. Stir till the butter is melted and serve 
at once. 



FRIDAY, 



FEB. 



17 



Breakfast. — Oatmeal and Cream. Beet Hash. 
Bread and Butter. Coffee. 

Dinner.— Hamand Eggs. Parsnips. White Potatoes. Breadand 
Butter. Cup Custard. 

Supper.— Macaroni with Cheese. Fresh Graham Bread and But- 
ter. Canned Cherries. Cake. Tea. 

Beet Hash. — Chop the meat and beets together, add the pota- 
toes and chop very fine. Put the fat which was left from the meat 
in a frying pan and when liquid pick out the bits of brown fat, add 
the hash and just enough boiling water to moisten well, cover and 
cook until brown, then fold as you would an omelet, and serve at 
once. 



SATURDAY, 



FEB. 

Omelet. 



18 



Breakfast. — Indian Mush with Cream. 

Hot Buttered Toast. Coffee. 
Dinner.— Fried Hahbut. Boiled White Potatoes. Stewed Toma- 
toes. Bread and Butter. Hot Apple Pie. Cheese. 
Supper. — Baked Beans. Boston Brown Bread. Apple Sauce. 

Cake. 

Indian Mush. — Put one quart of water on to boil. Mix one 
pint of corn meal one teaspoonful of salt, and one tablespoonful of 
flour with one pint of cold milk. Stir this gradually into the boil- 
ing water and boil half an hour, stirring often. Cook an extra 
supply and pour in a tin to fry the next morning. 



SUNDAY, 



FEB. 



19 



Breakfast.— Fried Indian Mush with Maple Svrup. 
Warmed Beans. Toasted Boston Brown Bread 
and Butter. CttfTee. 

Dinner.— Roast Beef. Gravy. Browned Baked Potatoes (Rule 
Jan. 15th.) Turnips. Boiled Onions. Celery. Bread and But- 
ter. Mince l*ie and Cheese. 

Supper.— Oyster Stew witli Crackers. Canned Pears. Feather 

Cake. 

Feather Cakf.— 1 cup sugar, 1 egg, i tablespoonful butter, i 

cup milk, 2 cups flour, 1 heaping teaspoon baking powder. 



MONDAY, 



FEB. 



20 



Breakfast. — Oranges. Broiled Salt Mackerel. Po- 
tatoes Warmed in Milk. Bread and Butter. 
Coffee. 

Dinner. — Roast Beef Warmed in the Gravy. Baked White Pota- 
toes. Canned Corn. Bread and Butter. Pumpkin Pie. 

Supper.— Egg Vermicelli. Currant Jelly. Thin Bread and Butter. 
h eather Cake. Cocoa. 

Egg Vermicelli. ^Boil three eggs twenty minutes. Separate 
the yolks and chop the whites. Toast four slices of bread, cut in 
small pieces, make a cup of thick cream sauce and add the chopped 
whites and while hot pour over the toast. Rub the yolks through 
a fine strainer over the whole. 



TUESDAY, 



FEB. 



21 



Breakfast. — California Breakfast Food with Cream. 

Poached Eggs on Toast. Doughnuts and Coffee. 
Dinner. — Roast Veal with Dressing. Mashed White Potatoes, 

Celery. Bread and Butter. Apple Float. 
Supper.— Milk Toast. Cheese. Canned Peaches. Cake. Tea. 

Api'LE Float.— Prepare 12 tart apples as for sauce. When 
cold add whites of two beaten eggs, then beat the whole till quite 
stiff. Make a soft custard with the yolks. When ready to serve, 
put the apple on the custard. 



WEDNESDAY, FEB. 



22 



Breakfast. — Oatmeal and Cream. Cold Roast Veal. 

Fried Potatoes. Graham Muffins. Butter. 

Coffee. 
Dinner,— Ham and Eggs. Baked Potatoes. Stewed Tomatoes. 

Bread and Butter. Apple Pie with Cream. 
Supper.— Thin Bread and Butter. Dried Chipped Beef. Apple 

Sauce. Chocolate Cake. Tea. 

Graham Muffins. — i quart of graham flour, i tablespoonful 
sug^ar, I teaspoonful salt, 3 teaspoonfuls baking powder, one egg, 
1 pint milk. Mix together graham flour, salt, sugar and baking 
powder, add the milk and beaten egg. Heat the roll iron hot, fill 
two-thirds full with batter, bake in a hot oven on top grate, fifteen 
minutes. 



THURSDAY, FEB. 



23 



Brealcfast, — Hominy and Maple Syrup. Fried 

French Bread. Boiled Eggs. Coffee. 
Dinner. — Boiled Corn Beef. Cabbage. Potatoes. Parsnips. 

Bread and Butter. Suet Pudding. 
Supper. — Hot Rolls. Cold Corned Beef. Canned Quinces. 

Cookies. Chocolate. 



Suet Puudding. — 14 cup suet or salt pork chopped fine, i cup 
raisins, i cup milk, i cup molasses, 2 cups flour, i teaspoonful soda. 
Steam two hours, serve with sauce. 



FRIDAY, 



FEB. 

Corned Beef 



24 



Breakfast.— Quaker Oats and Cream. 

Hash. Doughnuts and Coffee. 
Dinner. — Boiled Cod with Egg Sauce. Boiled White Potatoes. 

Stewed Corn. Bread and Butter. Mince Pie. Cheese. 
Supper.— Cold Meat. Tea. Cake. Canned Pears, 



Boiled Cod With Egg Sauce.— Tie the fish in a linen bag 
after salting well. Put in boiling water and cook one hour. 

Egg Sauce.- i egg (well beaten), i teaspoonful corn starch, 
turn boiling water to it until it thickens, then turn the two together. 
Add a piece of butter, pour the sauce over the fish and garnish with 
hard boiled eggs. 



SATURDAY, FEB. 



25 



Breakfast. — Oranges. Creamed Fish. Fried Pota- 

tnes. Hot Rolls. Coffee. 
Dinner. — Broiled Beef Steak. Mashed Potatoe. Fried Parsnips. 

lircad and Butter. Hot Apple Pie. Cheese. 
Supper.— Welsh Rarebit. Bread and Butter. Canned Peaches. 

Roll Jelly Cake. Chocolate. 

Roll Jelly Cake.— 2 eggs, ^4 cup sugar, K cup flour ^4 tea- 
spoon of cream of tartar, l^ teaspoon of soda, a little salt. Dissolve 
the soda in a tablespoonful of boiling water. Bake in an oblong 
tin and while hot spread with jelly and roll. 



SUNDAY, 



FEB. 



26 



Breakfast. — Oatmeal and Cream. Fried Oysters. 

Creamed Potatoes. Hot Buttered Toast. Coffee. 
Dinner. — Roast Chicken. Mashed White Potatoes. Turnips. 

Celery. Cranberry Sauce. Bread and Butter. Boiled Tapioca 

Pudding. 
Supper.— Cold Chicken. Thin Bread and Butter. Baked Sour 

Apples, Served Hot. Cake. Tea. 

Boiled Tapioca Pudding. — i qt. milk (warmed,) add 3 table- 
spoonfuls tapioca, boil together till soft. Add 4 eggs, leaving but 
the whites of ^. Beat sugar enough with yolks to sweeten, boil all 
together until thick, add the beaten whiles while hot. 



MONDAY, 



FEB. 



27 



Breakfast. — Hominy and Cream. Sausage and 

Buckwlicat Cakes. Doughnuts and Coffee. 
Dinner. — Chicken Soup and Crackers. Mutton Chops. Baked 

Wliite Potatoes. Steamed Pudding. 
Supper.— Hominy Croquettes, (same rule as Rice Croquettes.) 

Maple Syrup. Crackers and Cheese. Apple Sauce. Cake. 

Mutton Chops. — Wipe with a wet cloth; have a frying pan hiss- 
ing hot without any fat, put in the chops and cook five minutes, 
turn and sear the other side ; cook more slowly till done, turning 
often. Arrange in the center of a hot dish and pour tomatoe sauce 
around them. 



TUESDAY, 



FEB. 



28 



Breakfast. — Oatmeal with Cream. Buckwheat 
Griddle Cakes with Maple Syrup. Bread and But- 
ter. Coffee. 

Dinner.— Broiled Meat Cakes. Squash. White Potatoes. Bread 
and Butter. Bananas. 

Supper.- Welsh Rarebit. Bread and Butter. Preserved Rasp- 
berries. Cake. Tea. 



Welsh Rarebit.- l^ pound cheese, J^ cup cream or milk, 1 tea- 
spoonful mustard, J4 teaspoonful salt, i egg, i teaspoonful butter, 
4 slices of toast. Break thecheese in small pieces, or if hard, grate 
it. Put the milk in a double boiler. Toast the bread and keep it 
hot. Mix the mustard, salt and pepper, add the egg and beat well. 
When the cheese is melted, stir in the ^gg and butler and cook two 
minutes, or until it thickens a little, but do not let it curdle. Pour 
it over the toast. 



SATURDAY, 



OCT. 



28 



Breakfast— Baked Apples with Cream. Ham and 
Eggs. Fried Indian Mush. Maple Syrup. Coffee. 

Dinner— Tripe. Potatoes. Turnips a la, Creme. Bread and But- 
ter. Jelly Crackers. 

Supper— Scalloped Oysters. Bread and Butter. Jelly. Old Fash- 
ioned Sponge Cake. Cocoa. 

Old Fashioned Sponge Cake.— Weigh i pound fresh eggs in 
the shell (about 8), i poiuid sugar, % pound sifted flour, juice and 
grated rind of i lemon. Beat the yolks until light and thick; add 
the sugar gradually, and beat again. Add the lemon rind and juice. 
Beat the whites till stiff and dry, and cut them in lightly, then sift 
in the flour and fold in carefully, stirring as little as possible. Sift 
the flour twice before putting in cake. 



SUNDAY, 



OCT. 

Fried Oy- 



29 



Breakfast— Wheat Germ with Cream. 

sters. Hot Rolls. Coffee. 
Dinner— Boiled Leg of Mutton. Caper Sauce. Potatoes. Fall 

Spinach. Currant Jelly. Bread and Butter. Mother's Charlotte 

Pudding. 
Supper— Cold Roast Beef. Thin Bread and Butter. Jam. Cake. 

Tea. 

Mother's Charlotte Pudding.— Line a puddinij dish with lady 
fingers split in two, fasten them with white of egg and let stand %, 
of an hour. Now take K box of Cooper's gelatine, dissolve in x 
quart of milk, let stand J^ hour." then put on stove and stir, as soon 
as dissolved remove from stove and flavor with vanilla, sweeten to 
taste. Pour into dish and set on ice. |When readv to serve, pile 
whipped cream on top. 



MONDAY, 



OCT. 



30 



Breakfast— California Breakfast Food with Cream. 

Salt Mackerel. Creamed Potatoes. Bread and 

Butter. Coffee. 
Dinner— Potato Soup. Cold Roast Beef. White Potatoes. Baked 

Sweet Potatoes. Bread and Butter. Apple Tapioca Pudding. 
Supper— Sweet Potato Salad. Bread and Butter. Hot Baked 

Quinces. Cake. Tea. 

Sweet Potato Salad.— Cut cold sweet potatoes in half-inch 
squares. Chop a stalks of celery. Season with salt and pepper 
and pour over a French dressing made as follows: — 3 tablespoon- 
fuls olive oil, 3 of vinegar, i teapoonful onion juice, i saltspoon 
each salt and pepper. Let salad stand in refrigerator 2 hours. 
Garnish with olives, parsley and pickles. 



TUESDAY, 



OCT. 



31 



Breakfast— Oatmeal with Cream. Stewed Kidney. 

Bread and Butter. Coffee. 
Dinner— Veal Cutlet. Potatoes. Stewed Tomatoes. Bread and 

Butter. Cider Jelly. 
Supper— Welsh Rare Bit. Bread and Butter. Canned Peaches. 

Raisin Spirals. Tea. 

Cider Jelly.- K box gelatine soaked in half a pint of cold water 
J^ hour with the juice and rind of i lemon and a little stick cinna- 
mon. Add I pint of boiling water, >^ a pint of cider and ^2. of a pint 
of sugar, strain through flannel. 



CAKE. 

In the making of cake, as in all other things, it is 
necessary to be done decently and in order, and the 
first thing to be orderly about is one's self. Let the 
hair be secured in a net or other covering, to prevent 
any from flying, and faithfully brush the shoulders 
and back that none lodge, to fly here and there. Be 
particular about washing the hands and wrists, and roll 
the sleeves well above the elbows. Have a large, 
clean apron at hand which will cover the dress. A 
good cook will not be over-nice about the style and 
trimming, so that it be of firm material and adapted to 
her purpose. Before beginning, have things ready. 
By that I mean clear the kitchen table cf everything 
not needed, and provide things that are needed. Have 
the sugar, butter, eggs, flour, spices and baking-pans 
at hand. 

Sift flour and sugar (if not pulverized), and measure 
or weigh. In warm weather let the eggs stand a few 
moments in cold water, as they will make a finer froth. 
Be sure, if possible, that the eggs are fresh, as no 
amount of beating will render them stiff if old. Beat 
the eggs thoroughly, and put whites in a cool place 
until needed; beat in a cool room till the froth will 
remain in the dish when turned upside down. 

Good butter should also be used. Nothing is gained 
by resorting to "cooking butter," as heat develops la- 
tent bad qualities. In very cold weather the butter 



may be warmed a little, but in no case allow it to melt. 

In using milk it is well to remember that sour milk 
makes a spongy, light cake; sweet milk, one that 
cuts like pound cake. With sour milk soda alone 
is to be used; with sweet, baking powder, or soda and 
cream of tartar. Never use fresh and stale milk in 
same cake. Butter should be beaten to a cream, and 
sugar added gradually: next yolks of eggs, then flour, 
whites, and lastly the flavoring or spice. 

Do not stir the cake mixture, but beat thoroughly. 
The batter should be brought up from the dish at ev- 
ery stroke, in this way driving the air into the cells in- 
stead of out. The cells will be finer if the motion is 
slower toward the last, remembering that it should al- 
ways be upward. 

Never beat or mix a cake in tin; earthern or stone- 
ware should always be used, and a wooden spoon is 
recommended. It is better to grease the pans with 
lard — fresh, nice lard — than butter. Several thick- 
nesses of paper should be placed in the bottom, and a 
little cap of paper over most kinds, except layer cake. 
A little cap may be made of brown paper, and saved 
for several bakings. 

The oven should receive a good share of attention. 
Too hot or too cool, and your cake making or baking, 
is a failure. If necessary to move the cake while bak- 
ing, do it very gently. Shrinking away from the sides 
of the pan and stopping its "singing" are indications 
that it is time to leave the oven. When the cake is re- 
moved from the pan and set away, always place it 
right side up. 

Finally, a tin chest or stone jar is best to keep it in, 
and it is well to wrap closely in a napkin, that the aro- 
ma be not lost. — L. Eugenie Eldridge in Good House- 
keeping, 

Yeast. — Take a pinch of hops and put them with i 
quart of water to boil. When they have well boiled up 
once and the hops sink to the bottom of the saucepan 
they are done. Prepare i teaspoon of flour, two 
dessertspoonfuls Indian meal, 2 good boiled potatoes, 
mashed, l teaspoonful salt, i tablespoonful sugar; 
work smooth with a little water, strain the hop-water 
into them and simmer a few minutes. When cold add 
I teacupful of the last made yeast, or distilled yeast. 
We have not varied the phraseology of the receipt 
since it has done such good service, but a pinch of 
hops seems a little vague in these days of exact meas- 
urements. It means, however, as much as one can 
easily grasp between the thumb and first two fingers. 
This yeast will keep well for a week or more in the 
summer if kept in a cool place. In winter it is good 
for at least two weeks, but like all other compounds of 
the sort, it is better for being fresh as often as possible. 
— Henrietta Davis in Good Housekeeping. 



CUCUMBER PICKLES. 



Soak cucumbers taken from the brine, put in a ket- 
tle and cover with vinegar, add to each gallon half a 
teacupful of mustard seed, celery seed and bruised gin- 
ger root each, two onions, half a dozen heads of garlic 
two tablespoonfuls of black pepper, half an ounce each 
of cloves, mace, tumeric, one pod of red pepper, a tea- 
cupful of horseradish, and 3 pounds of brown sugar. 
Let boil, put in a jar and let stand over night; pour 
the spiced vinegar back into the kettle and let come to 
a boil, then pour over the cucumbers agian. They will 
be ready for use in a week. 



WEDNESDAY, MARCH f 

Breakfast. — Quaker Oats with Cream. Warmed over 1 

Stew. Hot Rolls. Coffee. -■- 
Dinner.— Boiled Legof Mutton with Caper Sauce. Mashed White 

Potatoes. Canned Peas. Bread and Butter. Salted Peanuts. 

Apples. 
Supper.— Cold Sliced Mutton. Fried Potatoes. Bread and Butter. 

Currant Jelly. Sugar Cookies. Tea. 


WEDNESDAY, MARCH O 

Breakfast. — Oranges. Fried Indian Mush with Maple ^^ S 
Syrup. Doughnuts. Coffee. ^^ S 

Dinner.- Roast of Pork. Apple Sauce. Browned Baked Poutoes. ? 
Celery. Cottage Pudding. ? 

Supper,— Creamed Salmon on Toast. Fresh Graham Bread and c 
Butter. Stewed Dried Peaches. Cake. Chocolate. I 

Applr Tapioca Pl-dding.— Soak a cup of tapioca in water three \ 
or four hours. Pare and core eight or ten tart apples, fill the holes ? 
with sugarand stick a clove or two in each apple. Pour the tapioca i 
over them as they are placed in the pudding dish, and bake till the i 
apples are thoroughly done. Be careful not to have the tapioca too S 
thick, eat with cream. S 


Sugar Cookies. — 2 cups sugar, i cup butter, 3 tablespoonfuls 
milk, '/2 teaspoon soda, i teaspoonf ul cream of tartar, 1 eggs. Beat 
butter to a cream, then add sugar. Stir up stiff, roll rather thin and 
bake in a quick oven. 


THURSDAY, MARCH A 

Breakfast. — California Breakfast Food with Cream. ^^^ 

liroiled Ueef Steak. Fried PoUtoes. Bread and Butter. ^^ 

Coffee. 
Dinner.—Soup and Crackers. Cold Boiled Mutton. Mashed While 

Potatoes. Macaroni with Cheese. Bread and Butter, Cocoanut 

Pudding. 
Supper.— Milk Toast. Stewed Prunes. Richmond Fruit Cake. 


THURSDAY, MARCH Q 

Breakfast.— Oatmeal and Cream. Salt Fish Balls. Pota- ^^m 5 
toes Warmed in Milk. Bread and Butter. Coffee. ^^ ? 

Dinner.— Pork Chops. Baked Potatoes. Apple Sauce. Bread ? 
and Butter. Mince Pie. Cheese. ? 

Supper.— Oyster Stew and Crackers. Canned Pineapple. Cake, i 

Apple Sauce.— Pare, core and cut in small pieces six or eight S 
tart apples. Pour over them enough hot water to cover them ; ad J ? 
one cup sugar ; stir often and cook until very fine. Use a granite ) 
or porcelain pan and a wooden spoon. ? 


Richmond Fruit Cake.— a cups of sugar, i cu p of butter, near- 
ly I cup milk, 4 eggs, i pound each, raisins and currants, J-; citron< 
% teaspoon soda, i teaspoonful of cream of tartar, 3 cups sifted 
flour. Spice to suit taste. 


FRIDAY, MARCH ^ f\ 

Breakfast.— California Breakfast Food with Cream. 1 m M \ 

Scrambled Eggs. Warmed Poutoes. Bread and -■■ ^^ c 

Butter. Coffee. i 

Dinner.— Fish Chowder. Beets. Hot Apple Pie. Cheese. S 

Supper.— Apple Fritters. Bread and Butter. Canned Plums. S 

Cake. Tea. S 

Apple Fritters. — Make a batter with i cup sweet milk, i tea- C 
spoonful sugar, 2 eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately. 2 cups S 
flour, I scant teaspoonful baking powder mixed with the flour. S 
Chop some good tart apples, mix in the batter and fry in smoking \ 
hot lard same as doughnuts. Serve with maple syrup. S 

SATURDAY, MARCH ^ A 

Breakfast.— Oatmeal and Cream. Fried Pork Steak. 1 | S 


FRIDAY, MARCH A 

Breakfast.— Hominy and Cream. Omelet. Fried Pota- ^^k 
toes. Hot Buttered Toast. Coffee. ^^ 

Dinner. — Sausage. Mashed White Potatoes. Boiled Onions. 
Bread and Butter. Hot Apple Pie. Cheese. 

Supper.— Baked Beans. Boston Brown Bread. Canned Peaches. 
Cake. Tea. 

Baked Beans.— Soak one cup of beans over night ; in the morn 
ing pour off the water, wash and pick over. Put in a saucepan, add 
I teaspoonful salt, Ji teaspoonful pepper, H teaspoonful mustard. 
Cover with hot water and boil ten minutes. Empty contents of pan 
into the bean pot, add i tablespoonful molasses and a piece of salt 
pork and bake 5 hours, add a little boiling water occasionally to 
prevent burning. 


SATURDAY, MARCH 2i 

Breakfa5t.— Oatmeal with Cream. Sausages and Buck- B^M 
wheat Cakes. Coffee. -*- 

Dinner.— Cream Celery Soup. Cold Roast Pork. Baked Potatoes. 
Stewed Tomatoes. Baked Apple Dumplings. Hard Sauce. 

Supper. — Oyster Stew and Crackers. Canned Peaches. Bread 
and Butter. Cake. 


Warmed Potatoes. Bread and Butter. Coffee. -^ -^ i 
Dinner.^-Broiled Mutton Chops. Mashed Potatoes. Canned Corn. S 

Bread and Butter. Pumpkin Pie. Cheese. 5 
Supper.— Welsh Rarebit. Bread and Butter. Apple Sauce. 5 

Cake. Tea. *^ \ 


Coffee. — i heaping tablespoonful coffee, i ^^g shell, i cup \ 
freshly boiling water. Mix first with a very little cold water then S 
add the boiling water and boil five minutes, pwur in a Uttle cold S 


Cream Celery Soup — Wash 3 good roots of celery and cut into 
small pieces, add a small slice of onion, cover with a pint of water 
and boil >< hour. Rub through a coarse sieve. Have ready i quart 
boiling milk, add the water in which the celery was boiled and the 
celery and onion. Rub i tablespoonful butter into 2 of flour and 
stir into the boiling soup, add pepper and salt to taste. Stir con- 
stantly till it thickens. Serve at once. 


water and let stand a minute. S 


SUNDAY, MARCH 4[ O 

Breakfast.— California Breakfast Food with Cream. 1 ^^ C 
Fried Oysters. Hot Rolls. Coffee. ■*- ^^ C 

Dinner.— Roast Duck. Gravy. Mashed White Potatoes. Onions S 
Stewed in Milk. Celery. Canned Peas. Mince Pie. Cheese. 5 


SUNDAY, MARCH C 

Breakfast.— Oranges. Fried Halibut Steak Breakfast ^M 
Puffs and Butter. Coffee. ^^ 

Dinner.—Roast Beef. Gravy. Browned Baked Potatoes. Tur- 
nips. Celerv. Bread and Butter. Charlotte Russe. 

Supper.- Cold Sliced Beef. Hut Sour Baked Apples. Thin Bread 
and Butter. Cake. Chocolate. 


After Dinner Coffee. S 
Supper.— Cold Duck. Strawberry Jam. Cake. Cocoa. S 

Roast Duck. — After the entrails are removed, wash thoroughly S 
in salted water. Stuff with equal parts mashed potatoes and bread ^ 
crumbshighly seasoned with salt, sage and pepper. Sew and trim. ? 
Put on a rack in a pan, place a thin slice of salt pork on the breast ? 
and bake in a hot oven. When considerable oil is extracted remove c 
the pork and pour off the oil, dredge with flour. When the flour is C 


Charlotte Russe. — i pint rich cream, i teaspoonful vanilla ',2- 
cup sugar. Sponge Cake. Place the bowl of cream on ice or in ice 
water and whip to a stiff froth, add the vanilla and sugar. Line a 
dish with lady fingers or sponge cake and fill with the cream and 
keep on ice till ready to serve. 


browned, add a Uttle hot water and baste often. Cook until brown s 
and tender. J 


MONDAY, MARCH f A 

Breakfast.— Oatmeal with Cream. Fried Salt Mack- 1 ^M ^ 


MONDAY, MARCH e 

Breakfast.— Hominy with Cream. Creamed Fish. Hot ^^B 
Buttered Toast. Coffee. ^^ 

Dinner.- Beef Olives. Baked Potatoes. Cold Slaw. Bread and 
Butler. Pumpkin Pie and Cheese. 
1 Supper.— Hominy Cakes. Sliced Oranges. Cake. 

Boiled Dressing for Cold Slaw.— Boil M cup of vinegar with 
2 teaspoonfuls of sugar, \i teaspoonful each 01 salt and mustard and 
% a saltspoonful pepper. Rub % cup of butter to a cream with 1 
teaspoonful flour and pour the boiling vinegar on it. Cook 5 min- 
utes, then pour it over one well beaten egg. Ww this dressing 
while hot with i pint of red cabbage shaved or chopped. 


ercl. l-ned Potatoes. Bread and Ilutter. Coffee. -*- ^^^ j 
Dinner.— Broiled Beef Steak. Baked Potatoes. Squash. Bread ? 

and Butter. Bananas. ? 
Supper.— Scalloped Potatoes. Hot Buttered Toast. Currant Jam. < 

Cake. Tea. ? 

Scalloped Potatoes.' — Slice cold boiledpotatoes very thin, put ? 
them in layers, alternately with bread crumbs plentifully sprinkled ? 
with bits of butter. Season with salt and pepper ; have the top ? 
layer of bread crumbs, pour over the whole a cup of milk and bake c 
one hour. c 


TUESDAY, MARCH f A 

Breakfast.— Farinose and Cream. Creamed Fish. 1 HH S 


TUESDAY, MARCH y 

Breakfast.— Indian Mush with Cream. Ham and Eggs. ■ 
Bread and Butter. Coffee. ^ 

Dinner.— Broiled Beef Steak. Beets. Mashed Potatoes. Bread 
and Butter. Rice Pudding. 

Supper.— Salmon Patties. Bread and Butter. Hickory-nut Cake. 
Raspberry Jam. Tea. 

Broiled Beef Steak.— Wipe and trim oft the superfluous fat. 
Grease the gridiron with some of the fat. Broil over a clear fire, 
turning every few seconds. Cook five minutes if liked rare; longer, 
if well done. Serve on a hot platter, season with butter, salt and 
pepper. 


Dinner,— Broiled Slice of Ham. Baked White and Sweet Pota- } 
toes. Bread and Butter. Nuts and Raisins. > 

Supper.— Scalloped Oysters. Bread and Butter. Apple Jelly. J 
Cake. Cocoa. > 


Scalloped Oysters.— Butter a baking-dish and fill with alter- S 
nate layers of crushed crackers and oysters. The first layer S 
should be the crushed crackers. Wet them with a mixture of the S 
oyster liquor and milk, then add a layer of oysters, which sprinkle / 
with salt, pepper and bits of butter. Let the top layer be the \ 
crushed crackers, over which scatter bits of butter quite thickly, c 
For a medium-sized dish, about an hour will be required for the C 
baking, or till the top is nicely browned. The layers of cracker \ 
crumbs should be thick enough to conceal the oysters. The.crack- \ 
crs should be made very fine. ' S 



SUNDAY, 



OCT. 



15 



Breakfast— Wheat Germ with Cream. Salt Fish 

Balls. Hot Rolls. Coffee. 
Dinner— Roast Beef. Gravy. Browned Baked Potatoes. Sweet 

Potatoes. Olives. Bread and Butter. Macaroon Pudding. 
5upper— Sardine Salad. Thin Bread and Butter. Canned Fruit, 

Cake. Tea. 

Macaroon Pudding. — i quart milk, i tablespoonful cornstarch 
yolks of 3 eggs, i cup sugar, i saltspoonful salt, flavor with bitter 
almond. Boil the milk, and then add the other ingredients dissolved 
in I cup cold milk. Have ready in a pudding dish one dozen maca- 
roons, pour the mixture over them while hut, then beat the whites 
of 3 eggs to a stiff froth with i small tablespoonful of powdered 
sugar. Drop this on the top of the macaroons, place the pudding 
in oven until a light brown. 



MONDAY, 



Breakfast— Indian Mush witli Cream, 

Bacon. Bread and Butter. Coffee. 
Dinner— Soup, Beef Olives. Potatoes. 

Butter. Lemon Pie. Cheese. 
Supper— Scalloped Potatoes. Fresh Graham Bread. 

Apple Sauce. Cake. Cocoa, 



OCT. 

Eggs and 

Fall Spinach. Bread and 



16 



Butter. 



Lemon Pie.— Take i lemon, grate the outside, leaving the white 
then grate the inside, i grated potato size of thelemon, i cup sugar, 
I of water, yolks of 2 eggs. Mix all together and let boil. Line a 
pie plate with rich crust, till with the above mixture and bake. When 
done, cover with a meringue made thus : — Whites of 2 eggs beaten 
stiff, sweetened with 2 teaspoonfuls powdered sugar. Return to the 
oven and bake a light brown. 



17 



TUESDAY, OCT. 

Breakfast —Grapes. Soft Boiled Eggs. Bread and 
Butter. Fried Indian Mush. MapleSyrup. Coffee. -^^ 

Dinner— Beef Stew with Dumphngs. Potatoes. Turnips a la 
Creme. Bread and Butter. Apple Pie. Cheese. 

Supper— Chipped Beef. Souffle Bread. Baked Quinces. Cake. 
Tea. 

Turnips a la Creme. — Peel and cut turnips into half inch dice, 
boil in salted water and drain. Pour over a cream sauce made of i 
cup hot milk poured gradually over i tablespoonful each of butter 
and flour, salt and pepper. 



WEDNESDAY, OCT. 



18 



Breakfast— California Breakfast Food with Cream. 

Warmed over Stew. Bread and Butter. Coffee. 
Dinner — Mutton Chops. Baked Potatoes. Stewed Tomatoes. 

Bread and Butter. Chocolate Blanc-mange. 
Supper— Cheese Fritters. Bread and Butter, Jam. Cream Calse. 

Cocoa. 



Cream Cake, No. 2. — Cake. — 3 eggs, (whites and yolks beaten 
separately,) I'j cups sugar, J2 cup cold water, 2 cups flour, \% tea- 
spoonfuls baking powder, bake in jelly tins. Filling. — Boil i pint 
milk, add ',2 cup sugar, a pinch of salt, 2 tablespoonfuls flour, rubbed 
smooth in a little cold milk, i tablespoonful butter and 2 well beaten 
eggs. Cook in a double boiler till smooth. When cool, flavor with 
vanilla. 



THURSDAY, 



OCT. 



19 



Breakfast— Grapes. Scrambled Eggs. Warmed 

Potatoes. Hot Toast. Coffee. 
Dinner— Roast of Lamb. Gravy. Mint Sauce. Potatoes. Peas, 

Bread and Butter. Amber Pudding. 
Supper— Sour Milk Griddle Cakes. Maple Syrup. Hot Baked 

Apples. Cake. Tea. 

Amber Pudding.- 2 eggs, their weight in sugar, butter, flour, 
and the juice and grated peel of i lemon. Beat the yolks with the 
sugar, lemon juice and butter softened till very light, sift in the flour 
and grated peel. Butter a small bowl or mould, pour the mixture 
in and boil two hours. 



FRIDAY, 



OCT. 



20 



Breakfast — Oatmeal and Cream. Creamed Salt Fish. 

Warmed Potatoes. Bread and Butter. Coffee. 
Dinner— Fried Halibut. Potatoes. Cold Slaw. Sweet Potatoes, 

Bread and Butter. Baked Custard. 
Supper— Veal Loaf. Bread and Butter. Baked Pears. Cake. 

Cocoa. 

Sweet Potatoes. — Boil in salted water until tender, then cut in 
halves, peel and put on in tin pan a piece of butter on each half, 
sprinkle with salt and pepper and brown in the oven. 



SATURDAY, OCT. 



Breakfast— Baked Apples with Cream. 
Oatmeal Gems. Coffee. 



Fish Hash. 



21 



Dinner— Broiled Beef Steak. Potatoes. Cones of Carrots and 

Turnips. Bread and Butter. Pears and Grapes. 
Supper— Boston Brown Bread. Baked Beans. Jam. Cake. Tea. 



Cones of Carrots and Turnips.— Boil them separately in quar- 
ters, use white turnips. Chop each fine in a chopping bowl, put a 
dessertspoonful of butter with them, season with white pepper and 
salt, then press them into cone shape,— a wineglass will answer— and 
stand them in alternate cones round the beef steak. 



SUNDAY. 



OCT. 



22 



Breakfast — Hominy with Cream. Fried Cod. 

Creamed Potatoes. Breakfast Puffs. Coffee. 
Dinner — Fricassee Chicken. Mashed Potato. Fall Spinach. Cel- 
ery. Bread and Butter. Vanilla Ice Cream. 
Supper— Creamed Oysters. Thin Bread and Butter. Fruit. Cake. 

Tea, 

Creamed Oysters. — To % tablespoonful butter melted in a 
sauce pan, add i heaping tablespoonful flour, cook a minute and stir 
in gradually 1 cup hot milk. Season with salt, pepper and 1 tea- 
spoonful celery salt. W^ash and pick over carefully i pint fine oy- 
sters, boil them in their own liquor until plump, drain, and pour over 
them the sauce. 



MONDAY, 



OCT. 



23 



Breakfast — Fluffy Egg on Toast, Hominy Cakes 

with Maple Syrup. Doughnuts. Coffee. 
Dinner — Tomato Soup. Chicken, with Cream. Potatoes, Cran- 
berry Jelly. Bread and Butter. Cottage Pudding. Lemon Sauce. 
Supper— Chipped Beef . Apple Fritters. Bread and Butler. Cake. 

Chocolate. 

Chicken w^ith Cream. — Yx pound of cold chicken, 3 gills cold 
water, 2 gills cream, i tablespoonful flour, i teaspoonful salt, V2 tea- 
spoonful pepper. Pick the chicken in bits about an inch and a half 
long, and put it in a saucepan. Pour the water over it and let it 
simmer until the water is nearly absorbed. Mix the flour smooth 
in a little of the cream, and the rest with the salt and pepper, and 
pour the whole over the chicken. Let it simmer and when sutiici on- 
ly thickened, ser\"e on a platter, garnished with pieces of crisp toast. 
Milk may be used instead of cream, with an ounce of butter. 



TUESDAY. 



OCT. 



24 



Breakfast— Wheat Germ with Cream. Chops. Fried 

Potatoes. Bread and Butter. Coffee. 
Dinner— Roast of Veal. Gravy. Potatoes. Curried Rice. Bread 

and Butter. Washington Pie. 
Supper— Cold Veal. Bread and Butter. Baked Pears. Cake. 

Tea. 

Washington Pie. — \% cups sugar, i of milk, 3 of flour, 1 egg 
2 tablespoonfuls of butter, 2 teaspoonfuls cream of tartar, i of soda. 
Bake as for jelly cake in two layers, spread between the following 
mi.«ure : Grate 2 lemons, add 1 cup sugar and 1 egg. Put on the 
stove and cook until thick, sprinkle powdered sugar over the top. 



WEDNESDAY, OCT. 



25 



Breakfast— California Breakfast Food with Cream. 
Hashed Veal on Toast. Doughnuts. Coffee. 

Dinner — Pot Roast. Potatoes. Stewed Tomatoes. Bread and 
Butter. Snow Pudding. 

Supper— Sliced Pot Roast. Thin Bread and Butter. Canned Black- 
berries. Buns. Cocoa. 



Buns. — i cup sugar, i cup sweet milk, small half cup butter, {;> 
cup English currants, i teaspoonful cream of tartar, ',3 teaspoonful 
soda, flour to make quite stiff. Drop)^poonfuls into biscuit tins. 



THURSDAY, OCT. 

Poached Eggs on 



26 



Breakfast— Oatmeal with Cream. 

Toast. Doughnuts. Coffee. 
Dinner— Mutton Broth. Sauted Meat. Potatoes. Fall Spinach. 

Bread and Butter. Hot Apple Pie. Cheese. 
Supper — Dried Beef. Baking Powder Biscuit. Baked Apples. 

Cake. Tea. 

MiTTON Broth. — Take 2 pounds of neck of mutton, cut in pieces 
and cover it in the kettle with 3 pints of water. Boil it till the meat 
is in rags, strain off the liquor and season to taste. 



FRIDAY, 



OCT. 



27 



Breakfast— Indian Mush with Cream. Broiled Beef 

Steak. Hot Rolls. Coffee 
Dinner- Fried Smelts. Potatoes. Beets. Bread and Butler. 

Custard Pie. Cheese. 
Supper— Bread Omelet. Corn Bread. Butter. . Fruit. Cake. 

Tea. 

Fried Smelts. — Cleanse and dry them, then dip them in milk, 
then in flour, shake off superfluous flour, and then egg and crumb 
them. Have the lard as hot as for croquettes and drop them in five 
or six at a time. They should brown in two minutes. 

EGG SANDWICHES. 

" Boil fresh eggs five minutes; peel; take a little white 
oS from each end; cut the rest in four slices, and put 
between bread and butter." That compound would be 
but little better than the egg in its natural state. 
Hard-boiled eggs, for any purpose, should be cooked 
in water just below the boiling point not less than 
twenty minutes ; then the yolk, instead of being 
tough, will be soft and mealy. To make sandwiches, 
use eggs thus boiled; chop fine; add a teaspoonful of 
butter for each egg, and salt and pepper to season; 
mix well together. The butter in the mixture holds it 
together when cold. Spread on buttered slices of 
bread, and put them together. A little chopped ham 
may be mixed with the egg for variety. 



WEDNESDAY, MARCH 



15 



Breakfast.— Hominy with Cream. Corned Beef 
Hash. Hot Rolls. Coffee. 

Dinner. —Roast Loin of Mutton. Browned Baked Potatoes. 
Fried Parsnips. Bread and Butter. Orange Pie. 

Supper.— Cold iMutton. Hot Baked Sour Apples. Bread and But- 
ter. Pound Cake. Tea. 



Pound Cake. — i cup butter, i% cups of flour beaten together, 
(mix M teaspoonful baking powder with the flour), i cup of eggs and 
i34 cups sugar, beaten together. Then mix the butter and flour, the 
sugar and eggs, and bake slowly. Follow the rule exactly and use 
the same cup to measure everything. 



THURSDAY, MARCH 



16 



Breakfast. — Hominy with Cream. Sausage and 

Buckwheat Cakes. Doughnuts and Coffee. 
Dinner. —Pork Chops. Apple Sauce. Mashed White Potatoe. 

r.read and Butter. Delmonico Pudding. 
Supper.— Hominy Croquettes with Maple Syrup. Thin Bread and 

butter. Cake. Chocolate. 



Delmonico Pudding. — One quart of milk, three tablespoonfuls 
corn starch mixed with a little cold milk, the yolks of four eggs 
beaten with six tablespoonfuls of sugar. Boil three or four min- 
utes. Pour in a pudding dish and bake about one half hour. Beat 
the whites of the eggs with six tablespoonfuls of sugar ; spread 
over the top and return to the oven until it is a delicate brown. 



FRIDAY, 



MARCH 



ir 



Breakfast. — California Breakfast Food with Maple 
Syrup. Fried Liver and Bacon. Bread and But- 
ter. Coffee. 

Dinner. — Baked Cod. Boiled White Potatoes. Cold Slaw. Bread 
and Butter. Hot Apple Pie, Cheese. 

Supper. — Chipped Beef. Hot Buttered Toast. Fruit Cake. Tea. 

Baked CoD.^Leave the head and tail on and clean thoroughly. 
Stuff with one cup bread crumbs moistened with J^ cup melted but- 
ter, season with salt, pepper, i teaspoonful chopped parsley, a little 
chopped onion. Sew, place in the pan, put on the top of the fish, 
two or three slices of salt pork and a piece under the fish to keep it 
from sticking. When the fat commences to melt, sprinkle with flour 
and baste often. Bake till brown. 



SATURDAY, MARCH 



18 



Breakfast. — Oatmeal with Cream. Creamed Fish. 
Fried Potatoes. Bread and Butler. Coffee. 

Dinner.— Broiled Mutton Chops. Baked Potatoes. Stewed To- 
matoes. Bread and Butter. Pumpkin Pie. Cheese. 

Supper. — Baked Beans. Boston Brown Bread. Blackberry Jam. 
i^ake. Tea. 



Boston Brown Bread, — 2 quarts unbolted rye meal, 1 quart 
yellow corn meal, mix well, i teaspoonful salt, i large teaspoon- 
ful soda dissolved in i cup molasses. Work up with cold water 
with the hands to a very stiff loaf, put in a buttered pan, smooth 
over the ton with back of a wet spoon. Steam at least 4 hours, 
then dry off zo minutes in the oven. 



SUNDAY, MARCH 



19 



Breakfast.— Quaker Oats with Cream. Salt Fish 

Balls. Breakfast Puff. Fried Potatoes. Butter. 

Coffee. 
Dinner.— Roast Chicken. Cranberry Sauce, Celery, Mashed 

White Potatoes. Turnips. Bread and Butter, Custard Pie. 

Cheese. 
Supper.- Oyster Stew. Crackers. Canned Fruit. Cake. Tea. 

Lemon Pie.— Four eggs, i quart milkf a little salt, and 14 cup 
sugar. Bake with under crust only. 



MONDAY, MARCH 



20 



Breakfast.—Oatmeal with Cream. Scrambled Eggs. 
I'Vit-d Potatoes Bread and Butter. Coffee, 

Dinner.- Fried Veal Cutlet. White Potatoes. Squash. Bread 
and Butler. Steamed Pudding. 

Supper.— Chicken Croouettes. Bread and Butter. Celery. Cran- 
berry Jelly. Cake. Tea. 

Fried Veal Cutlet.— Sprinkle with salt and pepper. Roll in 

fine cracker crumbs, then dip in beaten egg, then in crumbs 
again. Fry three or four slices of salt pork and fry the cutlet 
brown in the fat; turn often. When brown place or^ a hot plat- 
ter, and make a gravy by adding a tablespoonful of flour wet in 
cold water, to the fat. Season, stir, and when a rich brown and 
slightly thick, pour over the cutlet. 



TUESDAY, MARCH 



21 



Breakfast. — Hominy with Cream, Veal Hash. 
Warmed Potatoes. Bread and Butter. Coffee. 

Dinner.- Pot Roast, Mashed Potatoes, Stewed Canned Toma- 
toes. Bread and Butter. Steamed Pudding, 

5upper.— Hominy Cakes and Maple Syrup. Stewed Prunes. 
Bread and Butter. Cake. Tea. 

Veal Hash.— Chop the veal very fine. Place in the fry- 
ing pan with the gravy and if not enough to cover the meat, use 
enough boiling water. Flavor lightly, with salt and pepper and a 
little lemon juice. When ready to serve, pour over sUces of hot 
buttered toast. 



WEDNESDAY, MARCH 



22 



Breakfast. — California Breakfast Food with Cream. 

Sausage and Buckwheat Cakes. Doughnuts and 

Coffee. 
Dinner.— Sauted Pot Roast. French Fried Potatoes. 

Bread and Butter. Nuts and Raisins. 
Supper. — Egg Vermicelli. Bread and Butter. Quince Jelly. Cake, 

Tea. 



Beets. 



Sauted Meat. — Cut cold pot roast in quarter inch slices 
and fry in hot butter until each side is a rich brown. Place in a 
hot dish; warm over the gravy which you had the day before, and 
pour over the meat. 



THURSDAY. MARCH 



23 



Breakfast.— Indian Meal Mush with Cream. Broiled 

Beef Steak. Hot Parker House Rolls. Coffee. 
Dinner. —Boiled Leg of Mutton. Caper Sauce. Canned Peas. 

Boiled Potatoes. Bread and Butter, Cocoanut Pudding. 
Supper.— Cold Sliced Mutton. Currant Jelly. Bread ana Butter. 

Cake, Chocolate. 

Parker House Rolls.— Make with milk bread sponge, and 
when risen and ready toshape, roll the dough on the board as you 
would pastry. Fold the dough, roll again until half an inch thick , 
Let the dough shrink back all it will, then cut iiito shape, rise, and 
bake until brown. 



FRIDAY, MARCH 



24 



Breakfast.— Fried Indian Mush with Maple Syrup. 

Hash, Bread and Butter. Coffee, 
Dinner. — Fried Halibut Steak. Cold Ham. Boiled Potatoes. 

Bread and Butter, Baked Custard. 
Supper.— Scalloped Oysters. Bread and Butter. Canned Fruit. 

Cake. Tea. 

Baked Custard.— i quart of milk, 4 beaten eggs^ 4 table- 
spoonfuls sugar, flavor with vanilla or nutmeg; a little salt. 
Bake slowly. Test the custard with a silver knife, if it comes out 
clean, it is done. 



SATURDAY, MARCH 



25 



Breakfast.— Quaker Oats. Creamed Baked, Warmed 

Potatoes, Bread and Butter. Coffee, 
Dinner. — Broiled Beef Steak. Mashed Potatoes. Turnips. 

Bread and Butter. Mince Pie. Cheese. 
Supper. — Creamed Toast. Stewed Prunes. Almond Cake. Cocoa. 

Almond Cake, — ^^ cup butter, i cup sugar, % cup sweet 
milk, 3 eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately, 2 cups flour, 2 
teaspoonfuls baking powder, and i pound of almonds, blanched 
and sliced, stirred in last. Save a few whole ones to put on the 
top of icing. 



SUNDAY, 



26 

Mashed Pota- 
Celery. Bread and Butter. Hot Apple Pie. Cheese. 

Welsh Rarebit. Bread and Butter. Canned Fruit. 



MARCH 

Fried Oysters. 



Breakfast.—Oatmeal with Cream 

Breakfast Puff. 
Dinner. — Yankee Pot Pie. Onions Boiled in Milk, 



Supper 

Cake. 

Yankee Pot Pie. — Stew a chicken until tender and make a 
gravy. Take some fresh baking-powder biscuits, break them 
open and spread on a platter crust side down, and when ready to 
serve, pour over the chicken and gravy. 



MONDAY, MARCH 



27 



Breakfast.— Quaker Oats with Cream. Boiled Eggs. 

Warmed Potatoes. Brezd and Butter. Coffee. ' 
Dinner.— Pork Roast. Mashed Potatoes. Apple Sauce. Bread 

and Butter. Huckleberry Pudding. 
Supper.— Cold Roast Pork. Bread and Butter. Canned Fruit. 

Cake. Chocolate. 

Huckleberrv Pudding.— I quart canned huckleberries, 
sweetened to taste, put in the pudding dish and set on the back of 
the stove, when they boil put a light crust over the top. Make 
with 1 cup flour, i teaspoonful baking powder, 14 teaspoonful salt, 
I tablespoonful butter, worked in with the finger tips, mi.k to 
make a soft dough. Do not roll out but spread over the top of the 
berries with a spoon. Bake 30 minutes or until the crust is brown. 
Serve with a hard sauce. 



TUESDAY, MARCH 



28 



Breakfast. — Hominy with Cream. Sausage. Warmed 

Potatoes, Bread and Butter. Coffee. 
Dinner.- Corned Beef. Cabbage. Boiled Potatoes. Breadand 

Butter. Indian Pudding, 
5upper.— Cold Sliced Corn Beef. Bread and Butter. Canned 

Fruit. Orange Cake. 

Orange Cake.— 3 eggs, (save one white for frosting) ij^ cup 
sugar, ^ cup hot water, grated rind of }4 an orange. Beat all to- 
gether and pour into ij's cups flour, mixed with. three teaspoon- 
fuls baking powder. Stir thoroughly and bake in layers. 

Orange Cream. — j4 pint milk, i egg, i teaspoonful corn 
starch, i tablespoonful flour, 2 tablespoonfuls sugar. Heat milk, 
beat other ingredients, add and boil till it thickens. Add rest of 
rind grated and juice of the orange. Spread on cake, frost the top 
with the white of egg, and a little orange juice thickened witn 
sugar. 



■ 


SUNDAY, OCT. f 

Breakfast — Wheat Germ with Cream. Broiled Fresh 1 
Mackerel. Creamed I'otatoes. Corn Muffins. . Coffee. -■• 

Dinner—Leg of Mutton. Caper Sauce. Mashed Potato. Peas. 
Bread and Butter. Pineapple Cream. 

Supper — Cabbage Salad. Thin Bread and Butter. Baked Pear.s. 
Cake. Tea. 

Pineapple Cream.— i quart can grated pineapple, put on stove 
in saucepan with */4 cup sugar, and ^2 cup water, let simmer. Dis- 
solve in winter, J^cup, in summer H cup gelatine in }4 cup water. 
When dissolved, pour into hot pineapple, strain through a colander 
and mash with spoon so pineapple will go through. Put in pan of 
cold water and let thicken, stirring often. When cool beat in i pint 
whipped cream, put in moulds. Other kinds of fruit may be used. 


MONDAY, OCT. Q 

Breakfast— Grapes. Eggs and Bacon. Bread and Butter. ^^K C 
Hominy Cakes with Maple Syrup. Coffee. ^^ s 

Dinner— Broiled Beef Steak. Potatoes. Stewed Tomatoes. Bread S 
and Butter. Rice Pudding. S 

Supper— Veal Loaf. Baking Powder Biscuit. Stewed Pears. 5 
Cake. Tea. 5 

Veal Loaf. — 3 pounds of raw veal, chopped fine, f' crackers, s 
rulled, 2 eggs, 3 spuonfuls butter, season. Mix thoroughly and bake S 
unc iftur. Slice thin for supper, when cold. It v.fill keep in a cool 5 
place a long time. S 




TUESDAY, OCT. irn 

Breakfast— Baked Pears. Broiled Slice of Ham. 1 WJ C 
Hot Buttered Toast. Coffee. ■*- ^^ C 

Dinner— Broiled Lamb Chops. Potatoes. Canned Peas. Bread S 
and Butter. Bananas and Grapes. S 

Supper— Salad Put-pourri. Thin Bread and Butter. Canned Fruit. S 
Crullers. Chocolate. S 

Ckullers.— I egg, I tablespoonful sugar, i tablespoonful sour i 
cream, soda, size ofa pea, pinch of salt, flavor with nutmeg, flour. S 
Cut in fancy shapes and fry as doughnuts. S 


i 
< 

4 
1 
1 


MONDAY, OCT. f% 

Breakfast— California Breakfast Food with Cream. ^^ 
Poached Egg:s on Toast. Doughnuts. Coffee. ^^^ 

Dinner— Curry of Mutton. Potatoes. Rice. Bread and Butter. 
Steamed Pudding. 

Supper— Salmon Patties. Bread and Butter. Canned Blueberries. 
Cake. Chocolate. 

Curry of Mutton. — Chop tine and fry an onion in butter, ( i 
tablespoonful). Mix together i tablespoonful curry powder, i tea- 
spoonful salt, and i tablespoonful flour, and mix into the butter and 
onion. Add one pint of hot stock a little at a time. Brown slices of 
cold mutton in salt pork, add them to the sauce and simmer till ten- 
der. Serve very hot. 


1 
1 
1 

1 


WEDNESDAY, OCT. -f «f 

Breakfast — California Breakfast Food with Cream. II ? 

Baked Eggs. Hot Rolls. Coffee. ** S 
Dinner— Roast Veal. Potatoes. Curried Rice. Bread ;in J Butter. C 

Hut Apple Pie. Cheese. ( 
Supper— Sliced Cold Veal. Thin Bread and Butter. Baked S 

yuinces. Plain Cake with Gelatine Frosting. Tea. 5 

Gelatine Fkosting.— i teaspoonful gelatine soaked in 2 table- S 
spoonfuls of cold water. When the gelatine is soft, add 1 table- S 
spoonful of hot water. Stir, let stand a minute, then add i cup of 3 
powdered sugar and beat while warm till white and light. Flavor ? 
to taste, ? 


1 
■i 

\ 

1 
( 
■ 
1 


TUESDAY. OCT. €% 

Breakfast— Wheat Germ with Cream. Creamed Salmon ^j| 
on Toast. Hot Rolls. Coffee. ^^ 

Dinner- Roast of Veal. Gravy. Potatoes. Stewed Tomatoes. 
Bread and Butter. Apple Snow. 

Supper— Cold Sliced Veal. Thin Bread and Butter. Hot Baked 
Apples. Cake. Cocoa 


1 


Apple Snow. — Grate i sour apple and add immediately i cup of 
sugar, then the whites of 2 eggs, well beaten, and beat all together 
for '/3 hour. Pour over it a soft custard and serve. 


H 
1 
1 


THURSDAY, OCT. ^ A 

Breakfast— Wheat Germ with Cream. Minced Veal 1 ^^^ ? 

on Toast. Bread and Butter. Coffee. ■^^- ^^^ S 
Dinner— Corned Beef. Potatoes. Cabbage. Beets. Custard Pie. 5 

Cheese. b 
Supper— Cold Sliced Corned Beef. Stewed Celery. Bread and ? 

Butter. Apple Sauce. Cake. Tea. ? 

Stewed Celekv.— Wash and cut the stalks into 3-inch pieces, ? 
and stew in hot salted water for % hour, then strain away the water ? 
they were stewed in and add a cup of veal gravy mixed with 4 table- 2 
spoonfuls of cream. Stew 1 hour longer, season to taste and serve. i 


1 

■1 

( 
■1 

4 

J 

1 


WEDNESDAY, OCT. Mj 

Breakfast— Oatmeal with Cream. Hashed Veal on Toast. ■■( 
Bread and Butter. Coffee. -^ 

Dinner— Fried Sweetbreads. Potatoes. Canned Peas. Bread and 
Butter. Grapes and Pears. 

Supper — Cheese Fritters. Baked Quinces. Bread and Butter. 
Cake. Tea. 

Baked Ql-inces.— Wipe each quince and place in a covered dish 
with I tablespoonful sugar to each quince and i cup water to the 
whole. Bake long and slowly. 


< 


FRIDAY, OCT. f A ? 

Breakfast— Oatmeal with Cream. Beet Hash. 1 (^ 

F^ried Potatues. Bread and Butter. Coffee. •*- ^^^ 'i 

Dinner— lioilcd Cod. Egg Sauce, Potatoes. Stewed Tomatoes. S 

Bread and Butter. Bananas, Grapes and Pears. } 

Supper— Chipped Beef. Crumpets. Baked Apples. Cake. Choc- ; 

olate. ? 

Ckcmpets.— Melt i small tablespoonful of lard, add to it i egg s 
and 1J3 gills of milk. Beat well, then add !; teaspoonful salt, i tea- S 
spoonful sugar, iV^ teaspoonfuls baking powder siftedwith -jji gills 5 
of flnur. Bake in mufftn rings in a very hot oven at once for five 5 
minutes. ? 


( 
1 


THURSDAY, OCT. C 

Breakfast— Grapes. Broiled Beef Steak. Fried PoUtocs. ^J 
Bread and Butter. Coffee. ^^ 

Dinner — Green Pea Soup. Sweetbread Croquettes. Potatoes. 
Sweet Potatoes. Bread and Butter. Cornucopias. 

Supper— Egg Vermicelli. Sally Lunn. Jelly. Cake. Cocoa. 

Cornucopias.— Use receipt for roll jelly cake and bake in small 
round shallow tins. Roll while hot into cornucopais, and secure in 
position until cold, then fill with whipped cream, flavored with va- 
nilla, and sweetened to taste. 




SATURDAY, OCT. -f A 

Breakfast— Grapes. Creamed Fish. Fried Potatoes. 1 ■■( l 
Kread and Butter. Coffee. -■■ -*• S 

Dinner— Tomato Soup. Tripe. Potatoes. Corn. Bread and ) 
liulter. Delmonico Pudding. S 

Supper— Scalloped Oysters. Bread and Butter. Baked Quinces. J 
Cake. Tea. ; 

Tripe. — Wash in warm water and cut into squares of three 5 
inches. Take i ej^g. 3 tablespoonfuls of flour, a little salt, and make } 
a thick batter by addinjj milk. Dip the tripe into the batter and fry ? 
light brown in salt pork. ^ 


FRIDAY, OCT. C 

Breakfast^ Oatmeal with Cream. Liver and Bacon, ^^m 
Bread and Butter. Coffee. ^^^ 

Dinner— Fried Halibut Steak. Potatoes. Corn. Bread and Butter. 
Sweet Apple Pickle. Jelly Crackers. 

Supper— Milk Toast. Cheese. Crackers. Canned Strawberries. 
Cake. Tea. 

Sweet Apple Pickle. — 8 pounds of sweet apples, 3 pounds of 
sugar, I quart of vinegar, spice to taste. 


. . 


t C A^l^l IIJI^ A \/ noT ^^ 






Breakfast— Grapes. Fish Hash. Hot Buttered Toast. ■ 
Coffee. ^ 

Dinner— Irish Stew. Stewed Tomatoes. Cauliflower, Bread and 
Butter. Cottage Pudding. Lemon Sauce. 

Supper — Oyster stew. Crackers. Marmalade. Cake. Tea. 


Arrowroot Jelly. — To 2 teacups of boiling water, s 
add 4 tablespoonfuls of Bermuda arrowroot, rubbed I 
smooth in a little water. Let the mixture boil up once i 
and then remove it from the fire. Cool in cups or jelly 5 
glasses. Eat with powdered sugar and cream. Some 3 
people prefer to have the cream flavored with a little 5 
vanilla, lemon or rose water. Very palatable to the s 
sick. < 

Eat honey upon wheat griddle-cakes, s 

Two or three bananas, sliced in a bowl of broad and i 
milk^ make a delicious and sufficient lunch. J 

Cold boiled rice or hominy, soaked very soft in milk S 
and mixed with eggs and flour to a smooth batter < 
makes nice griddle cakes. i 




Lbmon Sauce.— J^ cup butter, i cup sugar, i egg, the grated 
rind and juice of i lemon, i tablespoonful corn starch, i cup boiling 
water. Boil together a few minutes and serve. 




SUNDAY, OCT. A 

Breakfast— Hominy with Cream. Broiled Fresh Mackerel, ^^k 
Corn Bread. Coffee. ^^ 

Dinner— Roast Spring Chicken. Gravy. Mashed Potato. Cran- 
berry Sauce. Celery. Bread and Butter. Snow Pudding. Hot 
Chocolate. 

Supper— Chicken Salad. Thin Bread and Butter. Chocolate Cook- 
ies. Baked Quinces. Tea. 

Chocolate Cookibs. — i cup grated chocolate, 2 eges, i cup 
sugar, K cup butter, H cup flour, i tcaspoontuls baking powder. 



WEDNESDAY, MARCH 



Maple Syrup, 
Bi 



iread 



29 



Breakfast. — Fried Hominy with 

Broiled Calf's Liver. Warmed Potatoes. 

and Butter. Coffee. 
Dinner.— Roast Beef. Browned Baked Potatoes. Cranberry 

Jellv. Bread and Butter. Baked Custard. 
Supper.— Cold Sliced Beef. Bread and Butter. Olives. Stewed 

I'fuit. Cake. Tea. 

CivANr.KBKV Jelly. — Add i teacup water to i quart berries and 
cook ten minutes. Add 2 cups sugar, boil again for ten minutes. 
Rub through a colander and pour into moulds. 



THURSDAY, MARCH 



30 



Breakfast. ^California Breakfast Food with Cream. 

Frizzled Beef. Bread and Butter. Coffee. 
Dinner.— Mutton Chops. Baked White Potatoes. Canned Peas. 

Bread and Butter. Orange Pudding. 
Supper.— Scalloped Potatoes. Bread and Butter. Apple Sauce. 

Cake. Cocoa. 

Orange Pitdding. — i cup sugar, % cup of rolled cracker 
crumbs, 7. eggs, ]4 tablespoonful butter, i orange, grate the rind 
and squeeze the juice, i quart milk. Bake like a custard; serve 
cold. 



FRIDAY, MARCH 



31 



Breakfast. — Wheat CJerm with Cream. Broiled 
Salt Mackerel. Creamed Potatoes. Bread and 
Butter. Coffee. 

Dinner.— Boiled Cod with Egg Sauce. Boiled Potatoes. Cab- 
bage Salad. Bread and Butter. Rice Pudding. 

Supper. -Macaroni with Cheese. Bread and Butter. Jam. Cake. 
Tea. 

Creamhd Potatoes. —Put i tablespoonful of butter in a fry- 
ing pan and when it bubbles add i tablespoonful of flour. Add 
one cup hot milk with salt and pepper to taste. Add 1 pint cold 
boiled potatoes, cut into small slices, cook until thoroughly hot. 



WHITE SAUCE AND CREAM SAUCE. 



For a quart of sauce, put over the fire in a thick 
saucepan, two heaping tablespoonfuls of dry flour and 
two ounces of butter, and stir them constantly until 
the butter melts and is smoothly blended with the flour; 
then begin to use a quart of boiling water, adding it to 
the butter and flour by the half-cupful, and stirring 
each portion smoothly with the sauce before adding 
any more ; if this direction is followed the sauce will 
be free from lumps ; when all the water has been 
smoothly stirred with the butter and flour, season the 
sauce palatably with salt, white pepper, and a very lit- 
tle nutmeg, and let it boil for a moment. The sauce 
should be thick enough to coat a spoon dipped into it, 
but by no means pasty. The cooking of the butter and 
flour together before the addition of liquid obviates 
any taste of raw flour. If half water and half milk 
replace the water, the sauce is richer ; all milk makes 
cream sauce. 

Some cooks use white broth as part of the liquid in 
making white sauce ; but a white sauce properly made 
with broth and kitchen herbs should be called veUmlc; 
bechamel sauce is made with white broth, milk, the 
kitchen herbs and vegetables ; both these sauces be- 
long to a department of cookery which we are not con- 
sidering at present. But white and cream sauces come 
legitimately within our limit, and if properly made add 
nutriment and flavor to inexpensive food. 



BROWN SAUCE. 



In natural sequence follows brown sauce as an im- 
portant source of savor and bulk in the cookery of the 
cheaper meats. A well-made brown sauce will raise 
the plainest dish of boiled potatoes, hominy or rice to 
the gustatory level of some of the lighter dishes of 
meat, and for children's luncheons and suppers the for- 
mer is often preferable. Children with normal, 
healthy appetites require larger quantities of food than 
some grown persons, and they should have plenty, 



but not food of the kind supplied to adults. For in- 
stance, boiled or baked potatoes, rice, oatmeal, homi- 
ny, Indian meal mush, or even bread, with plenty of 
good gravy, is better fare for children than abundance 
of meat, two or three times a day, especially if the 
meat is salt or fat. A brown sauce is simply a good 
gravy. To make a quart of brown sauce use either 
two ounces of good butter, or of perfectly sweet drip- 
pings ; if the drippings from the different meats are 
kept in separate crockery vessels, as they should be, 
different flavors will accompany the sauces niade from 
different fats. Put two ounces of drippings and two 
tablespoonfuls of flour over the fire in a thick sauce- 
pan and stir them constantly until the flour is nicely 
browned ; then gradually stir in a quart of boiling wa- 
ter, half a cupful at once, stirring the sauce smooth 
with each addition of water, and keeping it at the boil- 
ing point ; when all the water is used, season the sauce 
palatably with salt and white pepper, let it boil thor- 
oughly, and then use it. It is an error germane to the 
digestive cranks that the food of children should be 
free from condiments ; salt and the simple spices used 
in moderation, aid the proper digestion and assimila- 
tion of the food of healthy persons of any age. The 
rest of our space must be given to a few cheap break- 
fast dishes. 



MINCED MEAT IN WHITE SAUCE. 



Any of the white meats, such as veal, lamb or poul- 
try, freed from bone or gristle, make excellent mince ; 
if the fat is abundant cut it off, chop separately, heat it 
so that it will yield its drippings without browning, and 
use it as the basis of a white sauce made as elsewhere 
directed ; if more than two tablespoonfuls of drippings 
are produced, save them unless the quantity of mince 
requires more than a pint to moisten it ; a pint of sauce 
is enough for two pounds of meat ; let the chopped fat 
remain in the saucepan after pouring out the excess of 
drippings; it will add to the savor of the mince. After 
the sauce is properly made, add the meat, which 
should be finely chopped, season the mince, and let it 
simmer gently while toast is being made to put under 
it on the dish. The toast for mince may be made over 
the fire or in the oven, but it must be delicately cut, 
and carefully watched to prevent burning. Serve the 
mince on a hot dish. Any gravy or special sauce that 
remains from the first service of the meat may be used 
in the mince. The usual seasoning for white meats 
are salt, white pepper, nutmeg or mace, parsley, lem- 
on and the lighter table sauces; the strongest sauces 
and most pungent condiments are most suitable for 
dark meats; onions may be used sparingly and mush- 
rooms plentifully. 



MINCED MEAT WITH BROWN SAUCE. 



Such dark meats as beef, mutton, ham and game 
make delicious mince, but if there is any considerable 
quantity of game it deserves to be made into a salmi 
or pasty. For a mince, the treatment is the same as 
that given for white sauce, except that a brown sauce 
is made, or the meat is cut in large pieces, browned in 
drippings or butter, and then finished in brown sauce, 
or cold brown gravy heated. When there is only a lit- 
tle meat, use an equal quantity of cold chopped pota- 
toes in making the mince. 



New tins should be set over the fire with boiling 
water in them for several hours before the food is put 
in them. 



FRIDAY, 



SEPT. 



29 



Breakfast- Oatmeal with Creatn. Omelet. Hot 

Buttered Toast. Coffee. 
Dinner— Baked Blue Fish. Hollandaise Sauce. Potatoes. Corn. 

Bread and Butter. Grapes and Peaches. 
Supper —Scalloped Tomatoes. Bread and Butter, Lemon Jelly. 

Cake. Tea. 

Lemon Jelly. — Soak % bo.x gelatine in i scant cup water till 
soft, shave lemon rind thin, steep it with a little stick cinnamon and 
I pint boiling water lo minutes, then add soaked 'gelatine » i cup 
sugar and '; cup lemon iuice and when dissolved, strain. 



SATURDAY, 



SEPT. 



30 



Breakfast— California Breakfast Food with Cream. 

Creamed Fish. Bread and Butter. Coffee. 
Dinner— Raw Oysters. Hamburg Steak. Potatoes. Lima Beans. 

Bread and Butter. Molasses Pudding. 
Supper— Baked Beans. Boston Brown Bread. Cut up Peaches. 

Cake. Tea, 

Raw Oysters.— Season slightly with salt and pepper and let 
stand where it is cold. Serve on half shell with sliced lemon, as a 
rtrst course. 



PRESERVING FRlJlT. 



Damson Plums. — Wash, drain and weigh them, put 
them in a kettle, and add the same amount of sugar, 
and to six pounds a pint of water. Boil them gently 
an hour. The syrup can be used for ornamental pur- 
poses. 

Green Gage and Egg Plums. — Pour boiling water 
over them and remove the skins. Allow equal quan- 
tities of fruit and sugar, and make the syrup in the 
usual way. Then lay in a few plums at a time and 
boil gently five minutes ; lay them in a jar as you take 
them from the kettle, and when all are done pour the 
boiling syrup over them and seal. 

Chickesaw plums may be preserved in the same 
manner after removing the skin with a sharp knife as 
they cannot be peeled by using boiling water. 

Quince Preserves. — Peel and cut into round slices, 
cook until tender in water, and then make a syrup of 
the water in which they were boiled, and three-fourths 
of a pound of sugar to each pound of fruit. When the 
syrup is ready, return the fruit to the kettle and boil 
gently half an hour. 

Quince and Apple Preserves. — Pare and quarter 
sweet apples, make a syrup of half a pound of sugar lo 
a pound of fruit, and add three sliced California quinces 
to a gallon of apples and cook till tender. 

Quince Preserves, (without boiling the syrup.) — 
Weigh twelve ounces of sugar for every pound of fruit, 
boil the quinces until tender in just enough water to 
cover them. Drain the slices and lay in a jar with al- 
ternate layers of sugar, cover the jar close by pasting 
papers over the top. Do not try to keep them longer 
than April. 

Grapes. — This fruit makes an excellent preserve. 
Remove the seeds from a slit in the side with a small 
penknife. Put half a pound of sugar to a pound of fruit, 
cook half an hour and seal up. 

Barberry Jam. — To one pound of barberries, eigh- 
teen ounces of sugar, dissolve the sugar with a very 
little water, and when it is boiling add the pound of 
fruit. Cook until the fruit stops making a snappmg 
sound and the juice will jell when tried in a spoon. 
It is better to make a pound at a time and seal in bowls. 
Barberries also make an excellent spiced sweet pickle 
to use with roast poultry. 

Barberry Jelly. — Eighteen ounces of sugar to one 
pound of juice. The time of cooking varies according 
to the ripeness of the fruit. Keep testing it as it jells 
quickly. 

Pear Preserves. — Peel and cut into halves Duchess 
pears, drop them at once into water. Do not peel many 



at a time as they get dark if allowed to stand unless 
you add lemon juice to the water. Make a syrup of 
one-third of a pound of sugar, the juice of one small 
lemon and some water, drop enough pears into this to 
fill a quart glass self-sealing jar. Cook until tender 
and seal air-tight. These will be very white and deli- 
cious if properly prepared. 

Common Pears. — Small sweet pears are very good 
cooked in a syrup of one-half pound of sugar to a pound 
of fruit, add a small teacupfulof water to every pound 
of fruit. When the pears are nearly done, add some 
fine large raisins, cook until these are plump and can 
the whole while hot. 

Iron Pears. — Quarter them and boil in enough water 
to cover them for two or three hours or until tender, 
make a syrup of three-fourths of a pound of sugar for 
each pound of pears and boil the fruit slowly in this 
syrup until it is a fine red color. 

Newtown Pippins. — One pound of sugar to one 
pound of fruit and one sliced lemon for each pound, 
make a syrup and boil the apples until clear and ten- 
der. 

Peaches. — Weigh equal parts of fruit and sugar, 
put them together and let stand over night. The next 
day boil the syrup and skim, then add peaches and 
cook slow y until the fruit is tender. Remove the fruit 
and cook the syrup fifteen minutes longer. A few 
peach kernels cooked in the syrup adds a pleasant 
flavor. 

Cranberries. — Boil until soft in half as much wa- 
ter as fruit. When soft add three quarts of sugar to 
five quarts of berries. Boil half an hour, watching 
closely to prevent burning. — B. P. D. in Good House- 
keeping. 



MARKETING FOR FOWL OR GAME. 



The old way of testing a fowl's tenderness or tough- 
ness, by yanking it at the wing to see whether the 
skin directly underneath tears or not, doesn't amount 
to much, and, moreover, spoils the prepossession of 
the bird for the next investigator, in case you don't 
want to buy. General appearances are better to judge 
by. If a turkey, for instance, is young, the legs will 
be black and smooth, the eyes lively and the feet flex- 
ible. If old, the eyes will be sunken and the feet dry. 
In choosing hens, see that their legs and combs are 
limber, which means they are young. If the legs and 
combs are rough and stiff, they are old, but may be 
good enough for a pie or soup. A young goose will 
have a yellow bill and limber feet. An old goose will 
have both bill and feet red and dry. Ducks, if young, 
will be limber-footed; if fat, hard and thick on the 
lower part of the body. The same rule applies to 
wild ducks, whose feet, though, are red, besides being 
smaller than those of tame ducks. Game can be just 
as easily selected, if you know how^ which most folks 
don't. Partridges, for instance, if young, will have 
black bills and yellow legs; ifold, white bills and blue 
legs. All old fowls, indeed, both domesticated and 
wild, may likewise be told by their hard, rough or dry 
feet. Hares and rabbits, if young, will be white and 
stiff, with ears that will tear like brown paper; ifold, 
the flesh will be dark, the body limber, and the ears 
tough. The same conditions may be kept in mind :n 
the selection of squirrels, save that the flesh, which is 
always more or less dark, must be judged by smooth- 
ness and firmness as indicating youngness, while the 
old ones will be limber and flimsy. — N. Y. Sun. 



SATURDAY, APRIL -f 

BreaWast.— Oatmeal with Cream. Creamed Fish. Warmed I 
Potatoes. Bread and Butter. Coffee. -^ 

Dinner.— Broiled Beef Steak. Baked Potatoes. Canned Corn. 
Bread and Butter. Hot Apple Pie. Cheese. 

Supper.— Baked Beans. Boston Brown Bread. Lemon Cream 
Cake. Tea. 

Lemon CRE.^M Cake.— !^ cup butter, 3 cups sugar, i cup 
sweet milk, 3 eggs, yolks and whites beaten separately, 3 cups 
flour, 3 teaspoonfuls baking powder. Bake in jelly tins. For 
tilling, I cup sugar, 2 tablespoonfuls butter, 2 eggs, grated 
rind and juice of 2 lemons. Mi.\ all together and boil till consist- 
ency of Jelly. Spread between layers, and dust powdered sugar 
on top without the filling. 




SUNDAY, 



APRIL 



Breakfast.— California Breakfast Food with Cream. ^^^ 

Fried Cod Fish Cakes. Warmed Potatoes. Breakfast ^^ 

Puffs. Coffee. 
Dinner.— Roast Beef. Gravy. Browned Baked Potatoes. Lettuce. 

Canned Tomatoes. Bread and Butter. Mince Pie. Cheese. 
Supper.- Scalloped Oysters. Hot Buttered Boston Brown Bread. 

Canned Fruit. Cake. Tea. 

LETTicr..— Pick over and wash carefully, do not cut the 
leaves, but tear apart as cutting wilts it. Shake off the water and 
keep in a cool place untill ready to serve, then arrange in a salad 
bowl, the large leaves around the edge and the light ones in the 
center. Serve with sugar, salt and vinegar to taste. 



MONDAY, APRIL 



Breakfast.— Wheat Germ with Cream. Omelet. Warmed ^^m 

Potatoes. Bread and Butter. Coffee. ^^^ 

Dinner.— Beef Roils or Olives. Baked Potatoes. Celery. Bread 
and Butter. Pumpkin Pie. Cheese. 

Supper.— Sardines served with Slices of Lemon. Bread and But- 
ler. Stewed Fruit. Cake. Tea. 

Baked PoT.\TOKS.— Select large potatoes and bake until soft, 
then cut each potato lengthwise, into halves. Carefully dig out 
themiddle with a spoon leaving nothing but the shell which you 
must not break. Mash the potatoes and season with pepper, salt, 
melted butter, and add hot milk to make soft and creamy. Put 
this mixture back into the shells, heaping full, sprinkle powdered 
cracker crumbs over the top and bake until brown. 



TUESDAY, APRIL 



Breakfast.— Indian Meal Mush with Cream. Broiled Beef 

Steak. Hot Rolls. Coffee. 
Dinner.— Boiled Leg of Mutton. Caper Sauce. Boiled Rice. 

Boiled Potatoes. Bread and Butter. Cocoanut Pudding. 
Supper.-Cold Sliced Mutton. Current Jelly, Bread and Butter. 

Cake. Chocolate. 

Boiled Lec, of Mutton. — Put leg into well salted boiling 
water. Skim, and simmer twelve minutes for each pound of meat. 

Caper Saice.— i tablespoonful of butter, while bubbling 
add I tablespoon ful of flour, stir well and add a cups of boiling 
water. When thick add 4 tablespoonfuls of capers. Salt and 
pepper to taste. 

WEDNESDAY, APRIL fj 

Breakfast.— Fried Indian Mush with Maple Syrup. Hash. ^J 
Hot Buttered Toast. Coffee. ^^^ 

Dinner.— Broiled Beef Steak. Mashed White Potato. Spinach. 
Bread and Butter. Jelley Crackers. 

3upper. — Salmon Patties. Bread and Butter. Canned Peaches. 
Cake. Tea. 

Spinach.— Wash in several waters, to rid of all grit, and pick 
over very carefully, cutting off the roots and dead leaves. Cook 
without water, place pan on the stove where it will cook slowly 
until juice is drawn out, then boil till tender. Drain and chop 
tine. Season with pepper, salt and butter. Garnish with hard 
boiled eggs. 

THURSDAY, APRIL C 

Creamed Salm.on on ^^9 



Breakfast.— Oatmeal with Cream. 

Toast. Breakfast Puffs. Toast. 
Dinner. — Mutton Chops. Canned Tomatoes. 

Bread and Butter. H[-pwn T^Ptry 
Supper.- Lettuce. Bread andButter. Stewed Fruit. Cake. 



Mashed Potatoes. 
Tea. 



Bkown Bgttv. — Grease a pudding dish and place in the 
bottom a layer of bread crumbs. Then nearly fill the dish with al- 
ternate layers of bread crumbs and chopped apples. Sprinkle 
sugar, cinnamon and bits of butter over each layer. Make the 
top layerof crumbs and serve with hard sauce. 



FRIDAY, 



APRIL 



Breakfast. — California Breakfast Food with Cream. ■ 
Poached Eggs on Toast. Doughnuts. Coffee. ^ 

Dinner.— Fish Chowder. Cold Slaw. Bread and Butter. Apple 
Pie. Cheese. 

5upper.— Welsh Rarebit. Bread and Butter. Canned Quinces. 
Cake. Tea. "—-- ' 

DouGHNiTTs. — 2 tablespoonfuls sweet cream, fill up the cup 
with sour milk, i ]4 cups sugar, i egg, 1 teaspoonful baking pow- 
der, % teaspoonful soda. Beat the sugar and egg together, very 
light, put the soda into the milk, then add to the sugar and eggs. 
Mix the baking; powder with the fkiur, and mix dough quite soil. 
Spice to taste. Fry in boiling hot lard. 



Breakfast.— Oatmeal with Cream. 

dcr. Bread and Butter. Coffee. 
Dinner. —Fried Pork Chops. Spinach. 

Butter. Pumpkin Pie. Cheese. 
Supper.— Scalloped Oysters. Bread and Butter. 

Chocolate. 

Chocolate.— 3 squares Baker's Chocolate, 4 tablespoonfuls 
hot water, a pinch of salt, i quart hot milk, sugar. Mi.x the 
chocolate, salt and hot water together, and boil until smooth, 
stirring all the time, then add the h'>t milk and sweeten to taste. 
It is delicious served with whipped cream. 



SUNDAY, 



APRIL 



9 



Breakfast.— Wheat Germ with Cream. Fried Oysters. 
Fried Potatoes, Hot Buttered Toast. Coffee. 

Dinner.— Roast Chicken. Gravy. Mashed Potatoes. Onions 
Boiled in Milk. Lettuce Served with Mayonnaise. Bread and 
Butter. Charlotte Russe. 

Supper.-Cold Chicken. Thin Bread and Butter. Canned Peach- 
es. Cake. Jam. 

Mayonnaise Dressing.— Yolk of i egg, olive oil, lemon, cay- 
enne pepper, salt, 1 teaspoonful dry mustard. Beat the yolk and 
dry mustard adding the oil a drop at a time until quiiethick, thin with 
lemon juice, a drop at a time, repeat this until you have made 
dressing enough. S«:ason to taste. Beat with a silver fork. 



MONDAY, 



APRIL 



10 



Breakfast.— Hominy with Cream. Eggsand Bacon. 

Bread and Butter. Coffee. • 

Dinner.— Chicken Soup. Veal Chops. Potatoe Puffs. Canned 

Peas. Bread and Btuter. Cottage Pudding. 
Supper.— Hominy Croquettes. Fresh Graham Bread. Stewed 

Kruit. Tea. 

PoTATOK Puffs.— To i cup mashed potatoe add i well beaten 
egg, season to taste, make into small balls ; roll in cracker crumbs, 
then dip into beaten egg, then roll in crumbs again and fry in boil- 
ing hot lard till .-x light brown. _____^^__^^^^^__ 



TUESDAY, 



APRIL 



11 



Breakfast. —Oatmeal with Cream. Veal Hash on 

Toast Warmed Potatoes. Bread and Butter. 

Coffee. 
Dinner.— HamandEggs. Potatoe;. Spinach. Bread and Butter. 

Cracker Pudding. 
Supper.— Bread Sauted with Maple Syrup. Crackers and Cheese. 

Canned Fruit. Cake. Tea. 

Cracker Pudding.— i quart of scalded milk, 5 tablespoonfuls of 
rolled cracker, a small piece of butter, 4 eggs ; bake | j hour and 
serve with any kind of sweet sauce. 



WEDNESDAY, APRIL 



12 



Breakfast.— California Breakfast Food with Cream. 

Liver and Bacon. Bread and Butter. Coffee. 
Dinner.— Beef Stew with Dumplings. Carmed Tomatoes. Bread 

and Butter. Snow Pudding. . 

Supper. — Chipped Beef. Bread and Butter. Stewed Fruit. 

Mock Macaroni. Tea. 

Mock Macaroni.— ijold-fashioned soda crackersrolled, seggs, 
whites and yolks beaten separately, :'i cups sugar, tablespoonful 
extract bitter almond. Drop in lumps on buttered paper and bake 
until a liirht brown. 



THURSDAY, APRIL 



13 



Breakfast.- Oatmeal with Cream. Warmed over 

Stew. Sour Milk Griddle Cakes with MapleSyrup. 

Coffee. 
Dinner.— Broiled Meat Cakes. Baked Potatoes. Lettuce. Bread 

and Butter. Molasses Pudding with Cream. 
Supper.-Macaroni with Cheese. Bread and Butter, Jam. Cake. 

Cocoa. 

Molasses Pudding.- t cup molasses, i teaspoonful soda, 1 tea- 
spoonful ginger, i teaspoonful cinnamon, ?2 teaspoonful salt, i 
tablespoonful melted butter, Jj cup boiling water, 2 cups flour. Put 
the soda with the molasses in a cake howl, and beat till very light, 
add the spice, salt, melted butter, boiling water and Hour. Bake in a 
cake tin. Serve in slices, sprinkled with sugar and covered with 
whipped cream. 



FRIDAY, 



APRIL 



14 



Breakfast. —Oatmeal, with Cream. Scrambled 

Eggs. Bread and Butter. Coffee. 
Dinner. — Fried Halibut. Boiled Potatoes. Macaroni with 

Cheese. Bread and Butter. 
Supper.— Oranges. Egg Toast, or Bread Sauted, with Maple 

Syrup. Crackers and Cheese. Cake. 

Egg Toast or Bread Sauted.— Beatthe egg Ughtly with a 
fork in a shallow dish. Add salt and milk. Soak the bread in 
this until soft. Have a hot griddle we 1 1 buttered. Brown the 
bread and turn carefully so as not to break it. 



SATURDAY, APRIL 



15 



Breakfast. — Fried Indian Mush with Maple Syrup. 

Creamed Fish. Bread and Butter. Doughnuts. 

Coffee. 
Dinner.— Mutton Chops. Canned Tomatoes. Baked Potatoes. 

Bread and Butter. Mince Pie. Cheese. 
Supper.— Baked Beans. Boston Brown Bread. Jam. Cake. 

Cocoa. 

CacoA. — % cup broken coooa, mixed with a quarts of water. 
Boil in a pot two hours. Sweeten to taste and serve with cream. 



k.-^^^t'X.-W ^ 



FRIDAY, 



SEPT. 



15 



Breakfast — Indian Mush with Cream. Broiled Beef 

Steak. Hot Rolls. Coffee. 
Dinner — Baked Blue Fish. Hollandaise Sauce. Boiled Potatoes. 

Cabbage Salad. Bread and Butler. Jelly Crackers. 
Supper— Oyster Fritters. Bread and Butter. Cut up Peaches. 

Cake. Chocolate, 

OvsTHK Fkitikks, — Beat 2 eggs very light, stir in *< cup milk, 
4 tablespoonfuls flour and t teaspoonful baking ponder. Season 
nysters with salt and pepper, drop one at a time in the batter, take 
it out with a large spoon, bein^ careful that it is covered with batter 
and drop into boiling lard. 



SATURDAY, SEPT. 



16 



Breakfast — Creamed Fish. Bread and Butter. 

Fried Indian Mush with Maple Syrup. Coffee. 
Dinner - Lamb Chops. Potatoes. Peas. Bread and Butter. 

IV-ach Pie. Cheese. 
Supper— Bouillon. Thin Bread and Butter. Slewed Pears, Cake. 

Tea. 

Boini.LON. — 2 pounds lean beef chopped, put in 2 quarts of cold 
water and let stand off the stove for one hour. Cover closely and 
simmer on the back of the stove for six hours. When the liquid is 
reduced to one quart, take from fire and when cool strain through 
a coarse cloth, squeezing hard to extract all the juice. When cold 
remove all the fat and return to fire. When the bouillon reaches the 
boiling point stir in the white and shell of one egg, boil half a min- 
ute, skim and strain once more, serve hot in cups. 



SUNDAY, 



SEPT. 



17 



Breakfast — Wheat Germ with Cream. Omelet. 

Breakfast Puffs. Coffee. 
Dinner— Roast Chicken. Gravy. Mashed Potato. Corn. Boiled 

Onions. Bread and Butter. Frozen Peaches. Plain Cake. 
Supper— Chicken Salad. Bread and Butter. Jam. Cake. Tea. 

Chicken Salad. — Cut chicken in small pieces, i. e. white meat. 
Chop celery fine and use !- as much celery as chicken. Dressing. — 
I egg, beaten to a froth, mix a gill of vinegar, i tablespoonful olive 
oil, !-< tablespoonful sugar, !- tablespoonful mixed mustard, i tea- 
spoonful salt, ]-2 teaspoonful pepper. Boil the whole together til! it 
thickens and when cold, mix with chicken and celery and garnish 
with hard boiled eggs and the white celery tops. 



MONDAY, 



SEPT. 



18 



Breakfast— California Breakfast Food with Cream. 

Brc^iiled Salt Mackerel. Bread and Butter. Coffee. 
Dinner— Beef Stew with Dumplings. Potatoes. Squash. Bread 

and Butter. Apple Tapioca Pudding. 
Supper— Welsh Rare Bit. Bread and Butter. Cut up Peaches. 

Raisin Spirals. Tea. 

Raisin Spirals. — 2 eggs, 1 cup sugar, % cup butter, i cup 
chopped raisins, V2 cup sour milk, i teaspoonful soda dissolved in the 
milk. Spice to taste, sufficient flour to make very stiff. Roll quite 
thin, cut in strips 2 inches wide, roll around the finger as if curling 
hair. Fry in buttera golden brown, sprinkle with granulated sugar. 
This dish is fit to set before a " King. ' 



TUESDAY, 



SEPT. 



19 



Breakfast— Oatmeal with Cream. Warmed over 

Stew. Bread and Butter. Doughnuts. Coffee. 
Dinner— Ham and Eggs. Potatoes. Succotash. Bread and Butter 

Peach Fritters. 
Supper— Salmon Patties. Quick Cream Biscuits. Baked Apples, 

Cake. Cocoa. 

Quick Cream Biscuits.— 2 cups sifted flour, % cup cream, 3 
leaspoonfuls baking powder, 1 teaspoonful sugar, a tiny pinch of 
salt. Mix the flour, sugar, salt and baking powder together, then 
add the cream, i well beaten egg, mixing all together with a silver 
fork. Handle the dough as little as possible while making it into 
small cakes. Bake in a hot oven 10 minutes, or till brown. This rule 
will make twelve. 



WEDNESDAY, SEPT. 



20 



Breakfast— Baked Apples with Cream. Creamed 

Salmon on Toast. Oatmeal Gems. Coffee. 
Dinner— Roast of Veal. Gravy. Potatoes. Curried Rice. Bread 

and Butter. Molasses Pudding. 
Supper— Sliced Tomatoes Served with Mayonnaise. Bread and 

Butter. Cut up Peaches. Cake. Cocoa. 

Oatmeal Gems.— i beaten ^gg. i cup of sweet milk, 1 cup cold 
oatmeal mush. Beat all together, add y^ teaspoonful soda, and ij^ 
cups flour. Bake in gem pans. 



THURSDAY, SEPT. 

Scrambled Eggs. 



21 



Breakfast— Hominy with Cream, 

Bread and Butter. Coffee. 
Dinner —Macaroni Soup. Cold Sliced Veal. Potatues. Lima 

Beans. Bread and Butter. Peach Pudding. 
Supper— Potato Salad. Bread and Butter. Baked Pears. Cake. 

Macaroni Soup.— Boil the macaroni in water for 10 minutes, 
strain and put into boiling stock, in the proportion of Yz a 
pound to the ^Uon, Simmer slowly for '/2 hour and serve very hot. 
Soufi Stock.— Tsik^ a shank of beef and boil it gently for 4 hours, ^^ 
pn hour before taking from the stove season with salt. Remove the 
meat and bone and put stock in a cool place. When cold, skim off 
ever>' bit of fat, keep in a cool place. This stock will keep for sev- 
eral days. 



FRIDAY, 



SEPT. 



22 



Breakfast— Baked Pears. Stewed Kidney. Bread 

and Butter. Hominy Cakes with Maple Syrup. 

Coffee. 
Dinner— Fried Halibut. Potatoes. Sliced Tomatoes. Bread and 

Butter. Bananas and Pears. 
Supper— Baked Eggs. Bread and Butter. Hard Gingerbread. 

Cut up Peaches. Chocolate. 

Hard GiNGERaREAo — i cup molasses, i cup sugar, % cup sour 
milk, % cup lard and butter, mixed, 2 teaspoonf uls soda, ^"teaspoon- 
ful ginger, a little salt. Stir in flour until thick enough to roll. Roll 
in square cake i inch thick, bake in a moderate oven 10 minutes. 



SATURDAY, SEPT. 



23 



Breakfast— Wheat Germ with Cream. Fish Hash. 

Bread and Butter. Coffee. 
Dinner^Mutton Cutlets au Fromage. Potatoes. Stewed Tomatoes. 

Bread and Butter. Peach Pie. 
Supper— Baked Beans. Boston Brown Bread. Canned Fruit. 

Cake. Tea. 

Fish Hash.— Chop equal parts of fish and potato, have ready a 
hot frying pan, (in which has been placed a slice of salt pork,) put 
the fish in the pan, moisten with boiling water and season to taste. 
Cook closely covered, and when brown, fold as an omelet. 



SUNDAY, 



SEPT. 



Breakfast — Oatmeal with Cream. Roast Oysters on 

Toast. Breakfast Puffs. Coffee. 
Dinner — Broiled Spring Chicken. Mashed White Potatoes. Succo- 
"■■ Bread and Butter. " - - ~ - 



lash, Olives. 
Cake. 



Banana Ice Cream. Plain 



Supper— Sardine Salad. Thin Bread and Butter. Cut up Peaches. 
Cake. Tea. 

Roast Oysters on ToAST.^Toast some slices of bread, wash 
and wipe some large fine oysters, spread as many as possible on each 
slice, season \vith salt, pepper and bits of butter. Put in a hot oven 
till the edges of the oysters curl. Serve at once. 



MONDAY, 



SEPT. 



Breakfast— California Breakfast Food with Cream. 

Bread Omelet. Hot Rolls. Coffee. 
Dinner— Corned Beef. Potatoes. Cabbage. Beets. Bread and 

Butter. Bread Fruit Pudding. 
Supper— Cold Sliced Corned Beef. Steamed Bread. Baked Pears. 

Cake. Chocolate. 

Brkad Omelet. — Soak a cupful of bread in a cup of milk. 
Beat 3 eggs, mix them with the soaked bread, season with salt and 
pepper. Put on the fire in a frying pan containing i tablespoonful of 
butter and when hot pour in the omelet. Take great care lest it 
burn, and shake the pan gently to keep the omelet loose. 



TUESDAY, 



SEPT. 

Poached Eggs on 



Breakfast— Brewis and Cream. 

Toast. Doughnuts. Coffee, 

Dinner- Broiled Beef Steak. Potatoes. Stewed Tomatoes. Bread 
and Butter. Corn Pudding. 

Supper— Scalloped Potatoes. Bread and Butter. Canned Rasp- 
berries. Cake. Tea. 

Brown Bread Brewis. — Soak Boston brown bread in milk un- 
til soft. Mash fine add salt and butter and eat while hot with sugar 
and cream. 

WEDNESDAY, SEPL 

Breakfast— California Breakfast Food with Cream. 

Frizzled Beef. Warmed Potatoes. Bread and 

Butter. Coffee. 
Dinner— Pot Roast. Potatoes. Succotash. Bread and Butter. 

Bread Pudding. 
Supper— Cold Pot Roast, Sliced Thin. Sliced Tomatoes. Bread 

and Butter. Cut up Peaches. Cake. Tea. 

Bread Pudding. — 2 cups grated bread crumbs, % cup sugar, a 
eggs, I quart milk, % dozen apples, cut in quarters, a little nutmeg. 
Bake 1% hours. 

THURSDAY, SEPL 

Breakfast— Grapes. Hash. Hot Rolls. Coffee. 
Dinner— Lamb Chops. Potatoes. Canned Peas. 

Sliced Tomatoes. Bread and Butter. Peach Pudding. 
Supper— Cheese. Crackers Hot Baked Apples. Railroad Cake. 

Chocolate. 

Railroad Cake. — Break 2 eggs into a cup and fill it up with 
sour cream, i cup sugar, \% cups flour, J^ teaspoonful soda, a little 
salt. Bake in a moderate oven. This is a delicious tea cake. 



HOW TO COOK OATiVlEAL. 



Take fresh, coarse oatmeal, put of it two cooking 
cups, scant full, into a three-quart bean pot, with a 
small top opening, two teaspoonfuls of salt, and fill the 
pot with freshly-boiled water; put on cover and set in 
oven to bake, and let bake six or eight hours. I bake 
mine all night. This serves a family of ten for first 
course at breakfast. — Good Housekeeping. 



SUNDAY, APRIL 



16 



Breakfast— Wheat Germ with Cream. Fried Oys- 
ters. Breakfast Puffs. Coffee. 
Dinner. — Chicken Pot Pie. Mashed White Potatoes. Cranberry 
Sauce. Lettuce Served with Mayonnaise. Bread and Butter. 
Bavarian Cream. 
Supper.— Oyster Stew with Crackers. Cake. Canned Pears. 

Tea. 

B.waRiAN Cream.— !^ box gelatine, K cup cold water, i cup 
milk, I cup rich cream, ^3 cup sugar, i teaspoonful vanilla. Soak 
the gelatine in the cold water till soft. Boil the milk with the 
sugar, and when boiling add the soaked gelatine. Stir till dissolved. 
Strain into a dish, stir occasionally and when cold and be- 
ginning tothicken. stir in lightly the cream, 'which has been 
whipped. Drop into moulds. 



MONDAY, APRIL 



17 



Breakfast.— Oatmeal with Cream. Omelet. Po- 
tato Cakes. Bread and Butter. Coffee. 

Dinner.— Broiled Beef Steak. Baked Potatoes. Bread and But- 
ter. Canned Corn. Steamed Pudding. 

Supper .— Scallooed Potatoes. Hot Buttered Toast. Coffee 
Cake. Jelly. Tea. 

Coffee Cake. — i pound raisins, i cup currants, i cup dark 
brown sugar, i cup molasses, i cup strong coffee, 2 eggs, 4 cups 
flour, I scant cup butter, cinnamon and cloves to taste. Bake i ^ 
hours in a slow oven. 



TUESDAY, APRIL 



Breakfast.- Hominy with Cream. 
Fried Potatoes. Bread and Butter. 



18 



Broiled Ham. 
Coffee. 
Dinner. — Corned Beef. Cabbage, Potatoes. Beets. Bread 

and Butter. Rice Pudding. 
Supper.— Cold Sliced Corned Beef. Bread and Butter. Cheese 
Crackers. Cake. Fruit. Tea. 

Cheese Crackers. — Grate dry cheese, split crackers and 
spread on a tin, the inside of the crackers turned up, put 2 tea- 
spoonfuls of cheese on each half cracker, and a small piece of but- 
ter. Put on the top grate of a very hot oven, until brown. 



WEDNESDAY, APRIL 



19 



Breakfast,— Corned Beef Hash. Bread and Butter- 
Hominy Cakes with Maple Syrup. Coffee. 

Dinner.— Roast Mutton. Gravy. Browned Baked Potatoes. 
Canned Peas. Bread and Butter, Cup Custard. 

Supper.- Cold Roast Mutton. Currant Jelly. Bread and Butter. 
Cake. Chocolate. 

Ctfp Custard.- i quart milk. 4 eggs, a pinch of salt, sugar to 
taste, flavor with vanilla. Scald the milk, add the beaten eggs, 
sugar and salt. Cook in a double boiler and when quite thick 
pour into fancy cups and put in coo! place in the ice box and serve 
very cold. 



THURSDAY, APRIL 



20 



Breakfast.— California Breakfast Food with Cream. 

Egg and Bacon. Bread and Butter. Coffee. 
Dinner.— Mutton Soup. Pork Chops. Dandelion Greens. Baked 

P'>tatoes. Bread and Butler. Nuts and Raisins, 
Supper.— Chipped Beef. Thin Bread and Butter. Jam. Cake. 

Cocoa. 

Dandelions. — Wash carefully and cover with boiling water 
and in 15 minutes drain themand again boil. Change the water 
until the very bitter taste is drawn off. When cooked, drain, chop, 
season and pour white sauce over it and serve on toast. 



FRIDAY, APRIL 



21 



Breakfast.— Oatmeal with Cream. Broiled Salt 
Mackerel. Creamed ft)tatoes. Bread and Butter. 
Coffee. 

Dinner.— Boiled Cod with Egg Sauce. Boiled Poutoes. Canned 
TnmHt')es. Bread and Butter. Blanc-mange. 

Supper.— Chipped Beef. Hot Rolls. Quince Sauce. Cake. Tea. 

Blanc-mange. — Take from 1 quart of milk % cup full, into 
which mix smoothly I heaping tablespoonful of sea moss farine, 
and then into the rest of the milk. Place it in a double boiler and 
cook 20 minutes or until it will congeal in the spoon a little when 
cooled. Add '^ cupsugar, strain, and flavor with vanilla or lemon. 
Pour into moulds and place on the ice to cool. 



SATURDAY. APRIL 



22 



preakf«5t.— Wheat oerm with Cream. Creamed 

hibii 1-ried Potatoes. Bread and Butter. Coffee. 
Dinner. -Beef Stew with Dumplings. Boiled Potatoes. Let- 
tuce Bread and Butter. Lemon Pie. Cheese. 
Supper. -Warmed over Stew. Hot Buttered Toast. Crab Apple 

Sauce. Cake. Tea. 

Pastry. — ij.< cups flour, i saltspoonful salt, 1 scant teaspoon- 
ful baking powder. Mix and sift. Rub in lightly with the hnger 
tips ^ cup of lard and butter mixed. Use enough cold water to 
hold all together. Roll very thin and handle as little as possible. 



SUNDAY, APRIL 



23 



Breakfast.- Cahlurnia Breakfast Food with Cream. 

Salt Fish Balls. Creamed Potatoes. Hot Rolls. 

Coffee. 

Dinner.— Roast Beef. Gravy. Browned Baked Potatoes. Aspar- 
_ agus. Bread and Butter. Bananas and Whipped Cream. 
Supper. —Sardines with Sliced Lemon. Hot Buttered Toast. 

Chocolate Cake. Tea. 

Bananas and Whipped Cream. — Pare and slice 8 bananas, 
sprinkle with J4 a cup of sugar and juice of an orange. Whip % 
pint of cream and pour on top. Set the dish in the refrigerator and 
serve ice cold. 



MONDAY, APRIL 



Breakfast. — Oatmeal with Cream. Boiled Eggs, 

Sour Milk Griddle Cakes with Maple Syrup. 

Coffee. 
Dinner. — Boiled Leg of Mutton. Caper Sauce, 

Creme. Boiled Potatoes. Cocoanut Pudding. 
Supper.— Cold Sliced Mutton, Bread and Butter, 

Jelly. Cake. Cocoa. 



24 



CauUflower a la 
Currant 



Cauliflower a la Crkme.— Cook the cauliflower in boiling 
•salted water until tender. When dishing it be very careful not to 
break it. Pour over it a cream sauce made with i tablespoonful 
butter, when melted add i tablespoonful flour, stir, and when 
thick add gradually 1 pint hot milk. 



TUESDAY, APRIL 



25 



Breakfast.— Indian Mush with Cream. Scrambled 

Eggs. Warmed Potatoes. Bread and Butter. 

Coffee. 
Dinner.— Corned Beef. Cold Slaw. Boiled Potatoes. Bread and 

Butter. Beets Apple Pie. Cheese. 
Supper. —Thin Bread and Butter. Apple Omelet. Cheese. Cake. 

Chocolate. 

AiTiE Omelet — Steam tart apples, mash and drain quite dry. 
Take i pint of the pulp, and mix with the yolks of three eggs, i cup 
sugar, juice of K a lemon, grated rind of a whole lemon, Ustly add 
the beaten whites. Brown cup of soft, tine bread crumbs in i table- 
spoonful butter in a.i omelet pan. Butter a plain mould, and sprin- 
kle the browned crumbs over the sides and bottom. Fill with the 
apple, and cover with the remainder of the crumbs. Turn on a 
platter when cold and serve with cream. 



WEDNESDAY, APRIL 



26 



Breakfast.— Oatmeal with Cream. Corned Beef 

Hii^ti. Bread and Butter. Coffee. 
Dinner.— Hamburgh Steak. Baked Potatoes. Canned Tomatoes. 

Bread and Butter. Salted Peanuts. Bananas. 
Supper. — Hominy Cakes with Maple Syrup. Crackers and Cheese 

Cake. Tea. 

Hamburgh Steak. — Pound a slice of round steak enough to 
break the tibre. Fry two or three onions, minced fine, in butter 
until slightly browned. Spread the onions over the meat, fold the 
ends of the meat together and pound again, to keep the onions in 
the middle. Broil, turning often. Spread with butter, salt and 
pepper. 



THURSDAY, APRIL 



27 



Breakfast.— Quaker Oats with Cream. Broiied 

Mutton Chops. Warmed Potatoes. Bread and 

Butter. Coffee. 
Dinner.— Roast Pork. Spinach. Saratoga Chips. Bread and 

Butter. Jelly Crackers. After Dinner Coffee. 
Supper. Scalloped Potatoes. Hot Rolls. Canned Peaches. Cake. 

Tea. 

Saratoga Chips. — Peal and slice potatoes very thin, lay in ice 
cold water one hour, and then thoroughly dry them with a clean 
towel. Drop piece by piece in a kettle of boiling lard, fry until 
crisp and brown. when taken out, drain on tissue paper and 
sprinkle with salt. 



FRIDAY, APRIL 



28 



Breakfast. — California Breakfast Food witn Cream. 
Creamed Salt Cod Fish. Bread and Butter. 
Doughnuts. Coffee. 

Dinner.— Baked Shad. Hollandaise Sauce. French Fried Pota- 
toes. Lettuce. Bread and Butter. Indian Pudding. 

Supper.— Macaroni and Cheese. Bread and Butter. Canned 
Blackberries. Cake. Cocoa. 

Hollandaise Sauce. — Rub Yi cup butter to a cream, add the 
ynlks of 2 eggs one at a time and beat well. Stir in the juice of 
half a lemon, Y2 teaspoonful salt, a little cayenne pepper. When 
ready to serve, add Vi cup boiling water. Cook in a double boiler, 
stirring all the time, until thick as custard. 



SATURDAY, APRIL 



29 



Breakfast.— Wheat Germ with Cream. Warmed 

Over Baked Fish. Bread and Butler. Coffee. 
Dinner. — Cream Celery Soup. Pork Chops. Potatoes. Bread 

and Butter. Hot Apple Pie. Cheese. 
Supper.— Lettuce Served with Mayonnaise. Bread and Butter. 

Jelly. Cake. Tea. 

Warmed over Baked Fish.— Separate all the fish and dressing 
from the bones, and mix them together. Season to taste, cook m just 
enough boiling water to cover, for five minutes, then add enough 
Hallandaise, same to flavor nicely and spread on thin slices ci 
hot buttered toast. 



SUNDAY, 



APRIL 



30 



Breakfast.— Oatmeal with Cream. Fried Oysters. 

Break last Puffs. JJoughnuts. Coffee. 
Dinner.— Fried Chicken. Gravy. Mashed White Potatoes. Spin- 

iicli. Bread and Butter. Snow Pudding. Coffee. 
Supper.— Oyster Stew. Crackers. Thin Bread and Butter. Fruit 

Cake. Cocoa. 

Fried Chicken,— Wash the chicken very thoroughly and cut 
into pieces the desired size. Season them, then roll in tlour and fry 
them in butter slowly, closely covered, till a rich btown. Cook the 
giblets m a very little boiling water, save the water in which they 
were boiled, chop them and add them and the water to the gravy, 
which must be made of cream and the browned butter in which the 
chicken was fried. Serve the chicken on small pieces of buttered 
toast. 



FRIDAY, 



Breakfast— Oatmeal with Cream. 

Rolls. Coffee. 
Dinner — Fried Sword Fish Steak. 

and Butter. Cup Custard. 
Supper— Soused Mackerel. Bread and 

with Cream. Cake. Tea. 



SEPT. 

Soft Boiled Eggs. Hot 



Boiled Potatoes. Corn. Bread 



Butter. Baked Apples 



Soused Mackerel. — Soak salt mackerel 48 hours in water, 
changing water frequently. Then boil the tish very carefully a few 
minutes, that it may not break. Place tish in a jar, add a teaspoon- 
ful of whole mustard, a few cloves, a few raw onions sliced. Pour 
hot vinegar over, cover tight. This will be ready for use in 4S hours. 



SATURDAY, 



SEPT. 

Creamed Fish. 



Breakfast— Wheat Germ with Cream. ^^^ 

Bread and Butter, Coffee. ^^^ 

Dinner— Broiled Meat Cakes. Potatoes. Succotash. Bread and 
Butter. Banana Cream. 

Supper— Baked Beans. Boston Brown Bread. Cut up Peaches. 
Cake. Tea. 

Banana Cream. — Boil a pint of milk, i cup sug^r, stir a heap- 
ing tablespoonful of corn starch in a cup of milk and add to the 
boiling; liquid. Beat an egg light and stir in. When all has come to 
a bnil remove from the fire and [.our half the mixture into a glass 
pudding dish, let cool on the ice. Slice two large bananas on top 
and then pour on the rest of the custard. When firm, add another 
layer of sliced bananas, serve with powdered sugar. 



SUNDAY, 



SEPT. 



Breakfast — Oatmeal with Cream. Salt Fish Balls. ^^B 
Creamed Potatoes. Hot Rolls. Coffee. ^^ 

Dinner— Roast of Lamb. Gravy. Mint Sauce. Peas. Potatoes. 
Baked Corn. Bread and Butter. Frozen Peaches. 

Supper— Dip Toast. Baked Pears. Bread and Butter. Cake. 

Cocoa. — 

Dip Toast. — Have a shallow pan containing i quart of boiling 

water and a teaspoonful salt. Dip each slice of dry toast quickly in 

the water, then pile on a hot platter, butter and serve hot. 



MONDAY, 



SEPT. 



Breakfast— Hominy with Cream. Minced Lamb on Toast. 

Bread and Butler. Coffee. 
Dinner— Corned Beef. Cabbage. Potatoes. Beets. Bread and 

Butter. Peach Fritters. 
5upper— Cold Sliced Corned Beef. Bread and Butter. Cut up 

Peaches. Cake. Tea. 

Peach Fritters. — i cup flour, i teaspoonful baking powder 
sifted in it. Make a very thick batter with % cup milk, two eggs, 
beaten light, }i cup sugar, a pinch of salt. Beat all together and 
add as many cut up peaches as you can. Drop by the spoonful in 
boiling lard, serve hot with powdered sugar. 



TUESDAY, 



SEPT. 

Horn- 



Breakfast— Corned Beef Hash. Bread and Butter. ^^ 

iny Cakes with Syrup. Coffee. ^^^ 

Dinner— Ragout of Veal. Curried Rice. Potatoes. Bread and But- 
ter. Cocoanut Pudding. 

Supper -Sliced Veal. Thin Bread and Butter. Baked Apples. 
Corn Starch Cake. Chocolate. 



Corn Starch Cake. — 2 cups sugar, 3 eggs, i cup sweet milk, i 
cup butter, 2 cups flour, 3 teaspoonfuls bakmg powder, 1 cup corn 
starch, flavor with lemon, 

WEDNESDAY, SEPT. £• 

Breakfast— Wheat Germ with Cream. Omelet. Steamed ^^m 
Bread . Coffee. ^^ 

Dinner — Broiled Beef Steak. Potatoes. Creamed Carrots. Bread 
and Butter. Apple Tapioca Pudding. 

Supper— Clam Saute. Bread and Butter. Cut up Peaches. Cake. 

lea. 

Steamed Bread. — Have a large covered steamer fitted tightly 

over a kettle of boiling water. Arrange slices of stale bread in the 

middle of the steamer, cover closely. Leave in only a few minutes, 

spread each slice with butter, pile on a hot plate and cover with a 

napkin. 



THURSDAY, 



SEPT. 



Breakfast— California Breakfast Food with Cream. Stewed ■ 
Kidney. Bread and Butter. Coffee. ^ 

Dinner— Cfiicken Pot-pie. Mashed Wiiite Potato. Succotasli. 
Bread and liutter. Peacii Pie. Cheese. 

Supper— Chiclien Salad. Tliin Bread and Butler. Blacliberries. 
Cal£e. Tea. 

Peach Pie.— Line a pie plate with pastry and fill with peeled 
and halved peaches, sprinkle with J^ cup sugar, and sift over i ta- 
blespoonful flour. Put on upper crust, bake. 

A delicious soft gingerbread is made by pouring on 
a piece of butter the size of a walnut, a half teacup of 
hot water, adding, when the butter is well melted, one 
cup of molasses, one teaspoonful of soda, one tea- 
spoonful of ginger, and sifted flour to make a thin 
batter. Bake in flat tins, in a slow oven. Is very nice 
eaten warm with butter. — Prudtnct Prim in Good 
/feiaetetfing. 



FRIDAY, 



SEPT. 



8 



Breakfast— Wheat Germ with Cream. Lamb Chops. Fried 

Potatoes. Bread and Butter, Coffee. 
Dinner— Fish Chowder. Cold Slaw. Corn. Bread and Butter. 

Apple Pie. Cheese. 
Supper— Bread Sauted with Maple Syrup. Baked Pears, Ribbon 

Cake. Tea. 

Ribbon Cake,— 3 eggs, i ]>i cups sugar, Y: cup butter, % cup 
milk, 2 cups flour, 1 teaspoonful cream of tartar, \2 teaspoonful soda. 
Divide tlie cake dough into 3 parts and to '^ of it add spice, i large 
tablespoonful molasses. \^ cup of raisins, 5-3 cup currants, ^ cup cit- 
ron. Bake in jelly tins and put the dark layer between the two 
light ones, with jelly between each layer. Sprinkle puwdered sugar 
over the top. 



SATURDAY, 



SEPT. 



9 



Breakfast — Oatmeal with Cream. Warmed over Chowder. 

Bread and Butter. Coffee. 
Dinner -Broiled Beef Steak. Mashed Potatoes. Stewed Tomatoes. 

HfL-ad and Butter. Steamed Pudding. 
Supper— Broiled Oysters. Hot Buttered Toast. Cut up Peaches. 

Cake. Tea. 

Broiled Ovsters. — Dry large oysters on a napkin, season with 
salt and pepper and broil on a fine wire broiler. Serve immediately 
in a hot dish of melted butter. 



SUNDAY, 



SEPT. 



10 



Breakfast— Hominy with Cream. Fried Fresh Cod. 
Creamed Potatoes. Breakfast Puffs. Coffee. 

Dinner— Roast Beef. Gravy. Browned Baked Potatoes. Cauli- 
flower a la Creme. Bread and Butter. Banana Ice Cream. 

Supper— Cold Sliced Beef. Thin Bread and Butter. Orange Mar- 
malade. Cake. Tea, 

Banana Ice Cream.— i pint sugar, i pint water, boil 20 minutes. 
10 grated bananas, to the bananas add the yolks of 5 eggs, well 
beaten. Stir this with the boiling syrup and stir 6 minutes. Remove 
from the fire stir in i quart of cream, when cool, freeze. 



MONDAY, 



SEPT. 

Hominy Cakes 



11 



Breakfast— Fluffy Egg on Toast. 

with Maple Syrup, Doughnuts. Coffee 
Dinner— Beef Soup with Crackers, Scalloped Beef. Squash. 

Stewed Tomatoes. Bread and Butter. Baked Peach Dumplings. 
Supper— Welsh Rare Bit. Bread and Butter. Cut up Peaches. 

Cake. Tea. 

Baked Peach DirMPLiNGs.— Cut the rolled pie crust in squares 
large enough to hold a peach. Pare the fruit and remove the stone 
and fill the cavity with sugar. Sprinkle a very little flour over the 
peach and roll in the crust, pinch the ends of the crust tight together 
and bake until the peach is soft and the crust is light brown. Ser\*e 
with hard sauce. 



TUESDAY, 



SEPT. 

Omelet, 



12 



Breakfast— Wheat Germ with Cream, 

Bread and Butter. Coffee. 
Dinner-R-)ast of Veal. Potatoes. Curried Rice. Bread and 

Butter. Peaches and Cream. Cake. 
Supper— Sliced Cold Veal. Thin Bread and Butter. Stewed Pears. 

Cake. Cocoa. 

Stewed Pears.— Wash them thoroughly, and put them into a 
stew-pan which has a tight cover, with sugar enough to sweeten and 
water to keep from burning, and a little stick cinnamon. Stew 2 or 
3 hours. 



WEDNESDAY, SEPT. 



13 



Breakfast— California Breakfast Food with Cream. 

Minced Veal on Toast. Breadand Butter. Coffee. 
Dinner— Pot Roast. Potatoes. Stewed Tomatoes. Bread and 

Butter. Snow Pudding. 
Supper— Sliced Pot Roast. Thin Bread and Butter. Cut up 

Peaches. Plain Cake with Boiled Frosting. Tea. 

Boiled Frosting. — Mix i cup sugar with ]4. cup swe ;t milk, 

put over fire and stir till it boils, then boil 5 minutes without stirring 
on the back of the stove. Take off fire and beat with a Dover Egg 
Beater to a cream. Spread on cake at once and very quickly. 



THURSDAY, SEPT. 



14 



Breakfast— Oatmeal with Cream. Poached Eggs on 

Toast. Doughnuts. Coffee. 
Dinner— Sauted Meat. Potatoes. Succotash. Bread and Butter. 

Peach Pudding. 
Supper— Dried Beef. 

Cake. Tea. 



Baking Powder Biscuit. Baked Apples. 



Baking Powder Biscuit.— Sift with 2 cups flour, i teaspoonful 
baking powder and }4. teaspoonful salt. Rub in a scant tablespoon- 
ful lard and butter mixed, and wet with enough sweet milk to make 
a soft dough. Handle lightly with the finger tips, and as little as 
possible. Roll 1 inch thick, cut small, bake 20 minutes or till brown. 



A stale loaf of bread, dipped quickly into cold wa- 
ter, then baked for half an hour is better than when 
fresh. I take but half a loaf for my small family of 
three.-^Frud^nce Prim in Good Housekeeping. 



MONDAY, 



MAY 



Breakfast.— Hominy with Cream. Warmed over Chicken. ■ 
Hread and Butter. Coffee. -*- 

Dinner.— Mutton Chops. Potatoes. Canned Peas. Bread and 

Butter. Pineapple Omelet. 
Supper.— Scalloped Potatoes. Hot Buttered Toast. Fruit Cake. 

lea. 

Pineapple Omelet, — 3 beaten eggs, a teaspoonful of lemon 
juice, and a tablespoonful powdered sugar. Cook as a plain break- 
fast omelet should be cooked; and just before folding it put within 
■2 heaping tablespoonfuls grated pineapple, either fresh or canned. 
Serve the omelet hot, dusted with powdered sugar. 



TUESDAY, 



MAY 



Breakfast. — Dropped Eggs on Toast. Hominy Cakes ^^^ 
with Maple Syrup. Doughnuts. Coffee. ^^^ 

Dinner.— Pot Roast. Gravy. Mashed Potatoes. Asparagus. 
Breiid and Butter. Rice Pudding. 

Supper.— Lettuce Served with Mayonnaise. Bread and Butter. 
Preserves. Cake. Tea. 

Asparagus. — Cut off the tough stalks, wash the tender parts, 
and tie in bunches again. Place in a saucepan and cover with boil- 
ing water. It will take from 15 to 30 minutes to cook the asparagus; 
ten minutes before taking it up add a tablespoonful of salt for each 
bunch. When done, serve on toast with butter sauce, or with a 
little plain butter spread over^t. 



WEDNESDAY, 



MAY 



Breakfast.— Oatmeal with Cream. Fried Salt Mackerel, ^^m 

Creamed Potatoes. Graham Puffs. Coffee. ^^^ 

Dinner.— Sauted Pot Roast. Boiled Potatoes. Parsnips. Bread 
and Butter. Delmonico Pudding. 

Supper.— Salmon Patties. Bread and Butter. Canned Fruit. 
Cake. Cocoa. 

Graham Puffs. — i egg. i cup milk, i cup graham and wheat 
flour equally divided, i teaspoonful sugar, a little salt. Beat the 
egg very light, then add the milk and pour this upon the flour, salt 
and sugar. Beat all until very light, turn into hot muffin pans, 
which have been well buttered and bake in a hot oven for 1; hour. 



THURSDAY, 



MAY 



Breakfast. — Wheat Germ with Cream. Creamed Salmon 

on Toast. Hot Rolls. Coffee. 
Dinner. — Veal Chops. Potatoes. Spinach. 

Bananas. 
Supper.— Chipped Beef. Hot Buttered Toast. Jam. Ice Cream 

Cake. Tea. 



Bread and Butter. 



Ice Cream Cjkkz.— Cake. -14 cup butter, il4 cups sugar, 2 cups 
flour, whites of 4 eggs, 2 level teaspoonfuls baking powder, J4 tea- 
spoonful vanilla. Beat the butter to a cream, add sugar, then milk, 
whites of eggs, which have been beated to a stiff froth, and lastly 
the flour and baking powder. Bake in jelly tins. Fining— W\x 2 
cups suf^ar with \^ sweet milk, put over fire and stir till it boils, 
then boil for 5 minuLCS "ery slowly, without stirring and flavor with 
vanilla. Beat with a Dover Egg Beater till a cream. Spread be- 
tween the layers of cake and on top. 



FRIDAY, 



MAY 

Scrambled Eggs. 



Breakfast. —Wheat Germ with Cream. 

Warmed Potatoes. Bread and Butter. Coffee. 
Dinner.- Fish Chowder. Fried Parsnips. Cold Slaw. Bread 

and Butter. Baked Custard (using yolksof eggs which were left 

from cake.) 
Supper.— Milk Toast. Crackers and Cheese. Stewed Fruit. 

Cake. Tea. 

Frted Parsnips.— Boil in boiling salted water till very tender, 
mash and season with butter, pepper and salt ; add one well beaten 
egg, and a very little flour. Make into small '.-alls and fry as you 
would doughnuts in hot lard. 



SATURDAY, 



MAY 



Breakfast. — Oalmeal with Cream. Soft Boiled Eggs. ^^9 
Hot Buttered Toast. Doughnuts and Coffee. ^^^ 

Dinner. — Soup with Crackers. Meat Pie. Carrots with Cream 
Sauce. Bread and Butter. Rice Pudding. 

Supper. —Scalloped Potatoes. Hot Rolls. Stewed Prunelles. 

Cake. Tea. 

Carrots with Cream Sauce. — Scrape, wash and cut into cubes 

enough carrots to make a quart when cut up. Cook in boiling 

water for an hour, then pour off all the water except \4 cup. Add 

I teaspoonful sugar, r of salt, and boil until the water evaporates. 

Add the sauce and serve at once. Make the sauce same as for 

creamed potatoes. 



SUNDAY, 



MAY 

Salt Fish Balls. 



Breakfast.— Quaker Oats with Cream. 

Fried Potatoes. Hot Rolls. Coffee. ^ 

Dinner.— Chicken Pie Mashed White Potatoes. Celery. Spin- 
ach. Bread and Butter. Olives. Charlotte Russe. 

Supper.— Sardines with Lemon. Thin Bread and Butter. Choco- 
late Cake. Canned Cherries. Tea. 

Chicken Pie. — Cut chicken into pieces and boil until tender in 
ju-t enough boiling water to cover. Take out chicken, thicken the 
liquid with i tablespoonful hour and butter rubbed together until 
creamy Season to taste. Line a deep baking dish with biscuit 
crust made thus i quart flour, 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder, and 
half a cup butter, and a little salt. Wet with milk and roll out H 
inch thick. After lining the dish, put in chicken and gravy and 
cover with upper crust. Bake until crust is brown. 



MONDAY, 



MAY 



8 



Breakfast.— Oatmeal with Cream. Warmed over Chow- 
der. Bread and Butter. Doughnuts. Coffee. 

Dinner.- Broiled Beef Steak. Baked Poutoes. Lettuce. Bread 
and Butter. Lemon Pie. Cheese. 

Supper.- Boston Brown Bread. Baked Beans. Fruit Cake. 

Cocoa. ■ 

Oatmkal. — I cup oatmeal, i teaspoonful salt, i quart boiling 

water. Cook in a double boiler and cook i hour. Remove the 

cover, stir with a fork, take from fire and leave lid off for a few 

minutes, to dry off the oatmeal. 



TUESDAY, 



MAY 



Breakfast.— California Breakfast Food with Cream. 

Liver and Bacon. Bread and Butter. Coffee. 
Dinner.— Broiled Mutton Chops. F^rench Fried Potatoes. 

ach. Bread and Butter. Boiled Tapioca Pudding. 
Supper. — Dried Beef. Sally Lunn. Fruit. Cake. Chocolate 



9 



Spin- 



Sallv Lunn.— I pint flour, 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder, ^ 
teaspoonful salt. Beat 2 eggfs, whites and yolks separately. Add 
to the yolks H cup sweet milk. Stir slowly into the flour and add 
J^ cup melted butter. Stih in the whites last. Bake till a nice 
brown. Serve hot. 



WEDNESDAY, MAY 



10 



Breakfast.— Hominy with Cream. Salt Fish Balls. 

Warmed Potatoes. Bread and Butter. Coffee, 
Dinner. "Corned Beef. Cabbage. Potatoes. Bread and Butter 

Custard Souffle. 
Supper.— Cold Sliced Corned Beef. Bread and Butter. Canned 

Fruit. Cake. Tea. 

Custard Souffle.— Rub 2 scant tablespoonfuls butter to a 
cream. Add 2 scant tablespoonfuls flour. Pour over this gradu- 
ally i cup hot milk and cuok 8 minutes ina double boiler, stirring 
often. Beat yolks of four eggs, and 2 tablespoonfuls sugar, stir 
into the milk and set away to cool. '-^ hour before serving beat 
whites of four eggs stiff, and add to the mixture lightly. Bake in 
buttered pudding dish ina moderate oven 36 minutes. Serve at 
once. 



THURSDAY, MAY 



II 



Breakfast.— Corned Beef Hash. Bread and Butter. 

Hominy Griddle Cakes with Maple Syrup. Coffee. 
Dinner.— Broiled Beef Steak. Baked White PoUtoes. Spinach. 

Bread and Butter. Custard. 
Supper.— Little Neck Clam Saute. Bread and Butter. Fruit. 

Cake. Cocoa. 
Little NecK Clam Saute.— 100 clams, % cup butter, 1 table- 
spoonful chopped parsley, 2 tablespoonfuls lemon juice. % tea- 
spoonful pepper, 2 level teaspoonfuls silt, and 2 level teaspoonfuls 
of dried bread and cracker crumbs. Put the butter in a saucepan, 
and place on the fire. When hot, add the lemon juice, parsley and 
crumbs, stir for one minute, then add the clams, salt and pepper. 
Cook for five minutes, stirring alt the time. Serve at once on 
toast. 



FRIDAY, 



MAY 



12 



Breakfast.— Indian Mush with Cream. Omelet. 

Warmed Potatoes. Bread and Butter. Coffee. 
Dinner.— Baked Shad. Fried Shad Roes. Bailed Poutoes. Cold 

Slaw. Bread and Butter. Steamed Pudding. 
Supper.— Mayonnaise of Lettuce. Bread and Butter. Cheese. 

Fruit. Cake. Tea. 



Fried Shad Roes.— Wash the roes and cook them 10 minutes 
in boiling salted water. Take them off the stove and plunge them 
into cold water. Drain and roll in beaten egg. then in fine cracker 
crumbs and fry till brown in smoking hot salt pork. 



SATURDAY, MAY 



13 



Breakfast.— Creamed Fish. Warmed Potatoes. 
Bread and Butter. Fried Indian Mush with Ma- 
ple Syrup. Coffee, 

Dinner.— Tomatoe or Mock Bisque Soup with Crackers. Lobster 
Salad. Bread and Butter. Suet Pudding. 

Supper.- Egg Vermicelli. Hot Rolls. Fruit. Cake. Cocoa. 

Lobster Salad.— Cut the lobster meat into small pieces, add 

a little of the fat and coral, then season with pepperand salt, and 
pour over all, enough mayonnaise dressing to moisten well. 
Pick out large lettuce leaves and put a heaping tablespoonful cf 
the mixture on each leaf. Arrange in a salad bowl and pour over 
the remainder of the dressing and garnish with slices of hard 
boiled eggs, olives and the tiny lettuce leaves. 



SUNDAY, 



MAY 



14 



Breakfast. — California Breakfast Food, with 
Cream. Fried Fresh Mackerel. Warmed Pota- 
toes. Corn Muffins. Butter. Coffee. 

Dinner. — Fricassee Chicken. Mashed White Potatoe. Cran- 
berry Sauce. Bread and Butter. Sweet Potatoes. Orange Pie. 

Supper. —Chipped Beef. Hot Buttered Toast. Canned Cherries. 
Sponge Cake. Tea. 

Orange Pie.— Three eggs, three quarters cup sugar, one or- 
ange, juice and half grated rind ; half a lemon, juice and grated 
rind, a little nutmeg. Cream butter and sugar, beat in the orange 
and lemon, add the beaten eggs saving the whites of two. Line a 
pie plate with rich crust, pour in this mixture and bake. Beat the 
whites with two tablespoonfuls powdered sugar, spread over the 
pie, when done, and brown lightly. 



TUESDAY, 



AUG. 



29 



Breakfa5t -Baked Pears. Broiled Slice of Ham. 

Hot Buttered Toast. Coffee. 
Dinner— Lamb Chops. Potatoes. Lima Beans. Bread and Butter. 

Corn Pudding. 
Supper— Salad Pot-pourri. Thin Bread and Butter. Berries. 

Cake. Raspberry Sherbet. 

Lima Beans.— Shell, wash and cook in boiling water. After lo 
minutes add salt and cook until tender. Let the water boil nearly 
away and add !j cup hot cream. Season with butter salt and pepper. 



WEDNESDAY. AUG. 



30 



Breakfast— California Breakfast Food. Baked Egy;s. 

Hot Rolls. Coffee. 
Dinner— Roast Veal. Potatoes. Peas. Sliced Cucumbers. Bread 

and Butter. Peach Pudding. 
Supper— Sliced Cold Veal. Bread and Butter. Berries. Cake. 

Tea. 

Peach Pidding, — Fillapuddingdish with whole peeled peaches 
and pour over them 2 cups water, cover closely and bake until 
peaches are tender, then drain off the juice from the peaches and let 
It stand till cool. Add to the juice i pint sweet milk, 4 well beaten 
eggs, I small cup flour, 1 teaspoonful baking powder, 1 cup sugar, i 
tablespoonful melted butler and a little salt. Beat 4 minutes, pour 
over peaches in dish, bake till a rich brown and serve with cream. 



THURSDAY, 



AUG. 



31 



Breakfast — Wheat Germ with Cream. Minced Veal 

on Toast. Bread and Butter. Coffee. 
Dinner -Broiled Beef Steak. Potatoes. Stewed Tomatoes. Bread 

and Butter. Ice Cold Rice Pudding. 
Supper — Cabbage Salad. Bread and Butter. Peaches and Cream. 

Cake. Tea. 

Carback Salad.— Chop i pint white cabbage very fine, mix 
with mayonnaise dressing and place in a large cabbage leaf. Gar- 
nish with olives and nasturtium blossoms. 



CONFECTIONERY MADE AT HOME. 



RECIPES FOR MARSHMALLOWS, CHOCOLATE CREAMS AND 
OTHER SWEETMEATS. 



In many homes the dish of bonbons and weets is 
always to be found temptingly arranged in some con- 
venient nook. While the confectioner's art is a study 
in itself, and his " creations" the outcome of a skilled 
training, yet there are numerous toothsome sweets 
that may be made at home. Here are recipes for 
some home-made candies: 

Marshmallows. — Soak a quarter of a pound of 
gum arabic in a half pint of water until soft, add to 
it a half pound of powdered sugar, stir all together 
and set in a saucepan until it is thick and white. Try 
it in water as soon as it thickens, and if it forms a firm 
but not hard ball, it is done. To make the marshmal- 
low more spongy beat the white of one egg and add to 
the paste. Flavor with orange flower. Pour the paste 
out on a pan, cover with corn starch, and, when cool, 
cut into squares. 

Chocolate Creams. — Tv;o cups of powdered sugar, 
one quarter of a cup of milk. Boil seven or eight min- 
utes and pour into an earthen dish; flavor with a little 
vanilla and stir till it is thick and creamy, and cool 
enough to handle. Shape into balls and lay on a flat 
dish. Cut up nearly a whole cake of chocolate (not 
sweet), pour into a bowl and set in hot water. When 
melted add a few drops of vanilla. Drop in the 
creams one at a time and take out with two forks and 
place carefully on white paper. 

Rural Taffy. — Melt two ounces of butter, free 
from salt, in a thick saucepan ; add a pound of brown 
sugar; boil the mixture till the syrup, dropped into 
water, cracks between the teeth. Pour in buttered tins 
half an inch deep and set to cool. The grated rind of 
a lemon is often added when the sugar is half boiled. 

Peanut Candy.— Two cupfuls of New Orleans mo- 
lasses, one cupful of brown sugar, one tablespoonful 
of butter, one tablespoonful of vinegar. While this 



is cooking in rather a shallow pan, shell the peanuts; 
lay them on buttered tins. Try the candy from time 
to time by dropping a little in cold water. When it 
seems hard and crisp remove from the fire and pour 
over the nuts. While still warm, cut into blocks of 
convenient size. 

Candied Almonds. — Blanch any quantity of al- 
monds, then fry them in butter till they are of a light 
brown color, wipe them with a napkin and place in a 
pan. Make a syrup of white sugar and boil it to the 
exact candying point; pour it boil ng hot on the al- 
monds, and stir them until they are quite cold. 

Plum Pudding Candy. — Make some rural taffy 
soft boiled — that is, take it up when it makes a soft 
ball in the water. Have ready half a teacup of seeded 
raisins a little warm, half a teacup of citron, one cup 
of currants, the grated rind of half an orange, the same 
of a lemon, and two ounces of chopped almonds. 
Mix this all with the warm candy thoroughly, using 
your hands to work it. Put it in pans to cool. Cnt 
into squares before hardening. 

Peppermints. — One pint of granulated sugar, four 
tablespoonfuls of water. Boil four minutes, take off 
the stove, and stir in two tablespoonfuls of powdered 
sugar, one-half teaspoonful of cream of tartar, seven 
or eight drops of oil of peppermint. Drop in the shape 
of small cakes on waxed paper. 

Chocolate Caramels. — Equal parts of white sugar, 
brown sugar, molasses, milk and chocolate (grated), 
for one cup of each, butter the size of an egg. Boil 
hard fifteen minutes before the chocolate is put in. 
Then boil till it will become brittle when dropped into 
water. Have ready one or two cupfuls of mixed nuts 
picked out and chopped. Take the candy from the fire, 
stir in the nuts and pour into well-buttered pans. 
When cool cut into square cakes, then wrap each in 
waxed paper. 

Orange Cream Bon-bons. — Grate the rind of a 
thick-skinned orange, taking off only the yellow, oily 
surface. Mix with a piece of almond paste as large 
as an egg and a half teaspoonful of lemon juice. 
Work them together with as much confectioners' sugar 
as will make a firm, dry paste. Break off little pieces 
and roll into balls. The grated peel from one orange 
makes quite a number, as the flavor is strong. Sprinkle 
with confectioners' sugar. The almond paste can be 
bought at any first-class grocery store. 

Candied Nuts. — Three cups of sugar, one-half cup 
of water; boil till it candies, then add a little cream of 
tartar dissolved in water. Drop in halves of walnuts; 
let them remain a few minutes, then dip out one by 
one and place on buttered tins or paper. Figs, dates 
or sections of oranges are nice prepared in thisway. 



FRXJiT SAGO. 



A dainty school lunch and a wholesome appetizer, 
and one that proves a general favorite, is a Norwegian 
dish made with sago and fruit juice as follows: Draw 
the juice from a pound of any kind of fruit, red currants 
raspberries, blackberries, plums and grapes are espec- 
ially nice for this purpose — strain it off and add water 
to make the quantity one quart; put this in an agate 
saucepan, and when it boils add four heaping table- 
spoonfuls of small sago which has been well washed; 
stir this over the fire until it thickens and until all the 
grains are clear, which will be from ten to fifteen min- 
utes; then sweeten to taste and fill into jelly glasses. A 
little cream to serve with it is a great improvement. 



r 



MONDAY, MAY 



15 



Breakfast.— Wheat Germ with Cream. Scrambled 
Eg^gs. Bread and Butter. Doughnuts. Coffee. 

Dinner. "Potato Soup. Chicken Croq^uettes. Baked Potatoes. 
Spinach. Bread and Butter. Baked Custard. 

Supper.— Cheese. Crackers. Stewed Fruit. Cake. Tea. 

Potato Soup. — 6 boiled and mashed potatoes, i quart milk, li 
pound butter. Season with pepper and salt. While mashinjij the 
potatoes, add the melted butter and pour in gradually the boiling 
milk. Stir well and strain through a sie ve, heat again. ^ Beat an 
egg-, put in a tureen and pour over the soup, when||rcady to 
serve. 



TUESDAY, MAY 

Mutton Chops. 



16 



Breakfast. — Oatmeal with Cream. 

Bread and Butter. Coffee. 
Dinner.— Roast of Veal. Gravy. Mashed Potatoes. Stewed 

Tomatoes. Bread and Butter. Cocoanut Pudding. 
Supper.— Cold Roast Veal. Bread and Butter. Canned Cherries, 

Cake. Cocoa. • 

Roast OF Veal.— Stuff with lightly seasoned and very moist 
dressing. Tie into shape, dredge with salt, pepper and flour. 
Put strips of pork over the top and bake allowing ^ hour to a 
pound. Add water when the flour has browned and baste often. 



WEDNESDAY, MAY 



17 



Breakfast. — Hominy with Cream. Veal Hash. 
Warmed Potatoes. Bread and Butter. Coffee. 

Dinner.— Beef Steak. Baked Potatoes. Spinach. Bread and But- 
ter. Cottage Pudding. 

Supper. — Mayonnaise ui Lettuce. Thin Bread and Butter. Orange 
Marmalade. Cake. Tea. 



spoo 



HoMiNv — I cup milk, 3 cups boiling' water, i cup hominy, i tea- 
Dnful salt. Steam in a double boiler for i hour. 



THURSDAY, 



MAY 



18 



Brealdast.— Stewed Prunes. Bread and Butter. 

Huminy Griddle Cakes w iih Maple Sprup. Coffee. 
Dinner.— Roast Beef. Gravy. Mashed Potatoes. Asparagus. 

Bread and Butter. Strawberry Sponge. 
Supper.— Scalloped Beef. Bread and Butter. Canned Peaches. 

Cake. Cocoa. 
Strawberry Sponge. — i quart strawberries, % box gelatine, 
ij^ cups water, i cup sugar, juice i lemon, beaten whites of 4 eggs. 
Soak gelatine in fi cup water, mash the berries and add half the 
sugar to them. Boil the remainder of sugar and the cup of water 
gently 20 minutes. Rub the berries through a fine sieve. Add gela- 
tine toboiling syrup, take from the fire and add berry juice. Place 
the bowl in pan of ice water and beat with egg beater five min- 
utes. Add beaten whites and beat till it begins to thicken. Pour 
into well wet moulds and set on ice. Serve with cream. 



SATURDAY, 



MAY 



19 



Breakfast.— Broiled Beef Steak. Warmed Potatoes. 
Bread and Butter. Hominy Griddle Cakes with 
Maple Syrup. Coffee. 

Dinner.— Roast Beef. Gravy. Browned Baked Potataes. Let 
tuce. Bread and Butter. Bananas. 

Supper.— Sliced Beef. Bread and Butter. Stewed Fruit. Cara- 
mel Cake. Tea. 

Caramel Cake. — Cake. — i cup sugar, 's cup milk, K cup but- 
ter, 2 eggs, I teaspoonful cream tartar, \.n teaspoonful soda, 3 cups 
flour. CaravieL—-> cups sugar, -i cup milk, butter size of an egg, 
I ublespoonful cocoa. Boil 10 minutes, flavor with i teaspoonful 
vanilla. Beat till cool. 



SATURDAY, 



MAY 



20 



Breakfast.— Wheat Germ with Cream. Creamed 

Fish. Bread and Butter. Doughnuts. Coffee. 
Dinner.— Ham and Eggs. Baked Potatoes. Asparagus. Bread 

and Butter. Nuts and Raisins. 
Supper.— Potatoe Salad. Bread and Butter. Fruit. Cake. Tea. 

PoTATOE Salad. — Cut hot boiled potatoes into thin slices and 
while they are hot mi.x with the following dressing : i teaspoonful 
mustard, ?,< teaspoonful salt, \2 teaspoonful sugar, a little pepper, 
dissolve in a very little cold water. Add 3 tablespoonfuls melted 
butter, II tablespoonfuls vinegar, 2 well beaten eggs. Cook about 
■x minutes or until thick. After mixing with potatoes, place on ice. 
Just before serving place a tablespoonful on lettuce leaves and if 
the flavor is liked add a little chopped onion. 



SUNDAY, 



MAY 



21 



Breakfast.— California Breakfast Food with Cream. 
Salt Fish Balls. Creamed Poutoes. Hot Rolls. 
Coffee. 

Dinner.— Roast Lamb. Mint Sauce. Mashed Potatoes. Mayon- 
naise of Lettuce. Bavarian Cream. 

Supper.— Sardines Garnished with Sliced Lemon. Thin Bread and 
Butter, Preserves. Cake. Tea. 

Roast Lamb,— A hind quarter of Iamb weighing 8 pounds, 
should be cooked \\i hours. The meat should be placed on a rack 
and the bottom of the pan covered with water, and the lamb basted 
with it often. Dredge with flour, salt and pepper. Serve with a 
brown gravy. 



MONDAY, 



MAY 



22 



Breakfast. — Indian Mush with Cream. Hash. 

Warmed Potat6es. Bread and Butter. Coffee. 
Dinner.— Broiled Beef Steak. Rice, Potatoes, Jelly Crackers, 
Supper. — Cheese, Rice Croquettes with Maple Syrup. Chocolate 

Cake. Tea, 

Steamed Rice. — Pour two cups of boiling water on one cup of 
well washed rice, add J^a teaspoonful of salt. Cook in the double boil- 
er 30 minutes. Remove the cover, stir with a fork to let the steam 
escape, and dry off the rice. 



TUESDAY, 



MAY 



23 

Bread and 



Breakfast.— Poached Eggs on Toast. Fried Indian 

Mush with Maple Syrup. Coffee. 
Dinner,— Veal Cutlets. Parsnips. New Potatoes. 

Huiter. Cottage Pudding. Strawberry Sauce, 
Supper. — Mayonnaise of Lettuce. Bread and Butter, Cake. 

Fruit. Cocoa, 

Strawberry Sauce, — i quart ripe strawberries, J4 cup butter, 
\% cups powdered sugar. Beat the butter to a cream and add the 
sugar. Hull the berries and mash them into the butter and sugar. 



WEDNESDAY, MAY 



24 



Breakfast.^California Breakfast Food with Cream. 
Hashed Veal on Toast. Bread and Butter. Dough- 
nuts. Coffee. 

Dinner. —Asparagus Soup. Broiled Meat Cakes. Potatoes. 
SjMnach. Bread and Butter. Salted Peanuts, 

Supper.— Welsh Rarebit. Bread and Butter. Cake. Fruit. Tea. 

Asparagus Soup, — Boil one quart of asparagus cut in inch 
lengths, in one quart of water until tender. Rub through a colander 
and return to the water in which it was boiled. Heat one pint milk, 
stir into it one tablespoonful butter creamed with one tablespoonful 
of flour, and cook a few minutes. Season and pour into asparagus. 
As soon as boiled, serve. 



THURSDAY, 



MAY 



25 



Breakfast.— Oatmeal with Cream. Mutton Chops. 

I'ricd Potatoes. Bread and Butter. Coffee, 
Dinner. — Corned Beef. Creamed Cabbage. Potatoes. Bread and 

Butter. Bananas. 
Supper.— Cold Sliced Corned Beef. Hot Rolls. Fruit. Cake. 

Chocolate. 

Creamed Cabbage. — Chop a small cabbage very fine. Cook 
in boilng water until very tender. Drain, season, melt a tablespoon- 
ful butter add a heaping teaspoonful flour, and a cup of milk, when 
boiling and thickened a little, pour on the cabbage, cook five min- 
utes and serve. 



FRIDAY, 



MAY 



26 



Breakfast.— Wheat Germ with Cream. Corned Beef 
Hash. Bread and Butter. Doughnuts. Coffee, 

Dinner.- Baked Shad. Cold Slaw, Potatoes. Bread and Butter. 
Ta[iioca Ice, 

Supper. — Fried Shad Roes. Bread and Butter. Cake. Fruit. 

Cocoa. 

Tapioca Ice. — i cup tapioca soaked over night, in the morning 

put it on the stove and when boiling add i cup sugar and boil till 

clear. Chop i pineapple, pour the tapioca over it, stir and put into 

n.oulds, when cold, serve with sugar and cream. 



SATURDAY, 



MAY 



27 



Breakfast.— California Breakfast Food with Cream. 

Creamed Fish. Bread and Butter, Doughnuts. 

Ooffee. 
Dinner.— Creamed Dried Beef. Potatoes. Asparagus, Bread and 

Butter. Lemon Pie. Cheese. 
Supper. — Baked Beans. Boston Brown Bread. Fruit. Cake. 

Tea. 

Creamed Dried Beep. — i tablespoonful butter browned in a 
frying-pan. Put in % pound chipped beef and let it get hot. Add 
1 cup milk in which has been stirred a heaping teaspoonful flour. 
When hot pour on a hot meat platter garnished with scrambled 



SUNDAY, 



MAY 



28 



Breakfast.— Wheat Germ with Cream. Fried Hali- 
but Steak. Breakfast Puffs, Coffee. 

Dinner.— Roast Chicken, Gravy, Potatoes. Asparagus. Bread 
and Butter, Cream Pie. Cheese, After Dinner Coffee, 

Supper.— Mayonnaise of Lettuce. Bread and Butter. Strawberry 
Fritters. Tea. 



Strawberry Fritters.— Beats eggs, whites and yolks separate- 
ly, add a teacupful of rich milk, a pinch ol salt, and flour enough to 
make a stiff batter. Beat the mixture until smooth, stir in a pint 
of strawberries, (which have been hulled and drained so as to be 
quite dry.) and ixy^ dropping small spoonfuls in plenty of hot lard. 
Serve, sprinkled with powdered sugar. 



MONDAY, 



MAY 



29 



Breakfast. — Oatmeal with Cream. Soft Boiled 

Eggs. Hot Buttered Toast. Coffee. 
Dinner.— Fried Halibut. Boiled Potatoes, Lettuce. Bread and 

Butter. Bananas. 
Supper.— Bread Sauted with Maple Syrup. Crackers and Cheese. 

Cocoanut Cakes. Cocoa, 

Cocoanut Cakbs, — The grated meat of 1 cocoanuts, their weight 
in loaf sug^ar, i cup of flour, whites of 2 eggs. Shape into balls and 
bake 2a minutes. 



TUESDAY, 



AUG. 



15 



Breakfast— Musk-melons. Chopped Veal on Toast. 

Fried Hominy. Bread and Butler. Coffee. 
Dinner— Broiled Beef Steak. Potatoes. Corn. Bread and Butter. 

Spanish Cream. 
Supper— Fried Egg-plant. Bread and Butter. Berries. Cake. 

Lemonade. 

Spanish Cream.— 2 tablespoon fu Is gelatine, soaked in a little 
milk one hour. Heat i pint or milk, beat the yolks of 2 eggs, and % 
cup sugar together. Stir the gelatine in the heated milk, then add 
sugar and eggs. Remove as soon as it thickens a little, flavor with 
vanilla, when nearly cold^stir in the welUbeaten whites. 



WEDNESDAY, AUG. 



16 



Breakfast— Oatmeal with Cream. Fried Egg-plant. 

Warmed Potatoes. Hot Rolls. CofEee. 
Dinner- Leg of Lamb. Mint Sauce. Gravy. Browned Baked 

Potatoes. Squash. Bread and Butter. Water-melon. 
5uppcr— Scalloped Tomatoes. Bread and Butter. Baked Apples 

with Cream. Cake. Tea. 

Summer Squash.— Wash and cut into quarters, do not remove 
the skin or seeds. Cook in boiling salted water 20 minutes or till 
tender. Place the st^uash in a strainer cloth, mash it thoroughly, 
squeeze the cloth until the squash is dry. Add a little butter, salt, 
pepper and heat again before serving. 



THURSDAY, AUG. 

Creamed Pota- 



17 



Breakfast — Berries. Baked Eggs. 

toes. Bread and Butter. Coffee. 
Dinner — Tomato Soup. Cold Sliced Lamb. Succotash. Potatoes. 

Bread and Butter. Huckleberry Pudding. Hard Sauce. 
Supper— Chipped Beef. Lettuce. Bread and Butter. Cake. 

Blackberries. Tea. 

Baked Eggs.— Cover the buttered dish with fine cracker crumbs. 
Put each egg carefully in the disband cover lightly with crumbs 
and bits of butter. Hake till the crumbs are brown. 



FRIDAY, 



AUG. 



18 



Breakfast California Breakfast Food with Cream. 

Slewed Kidney. Bread and Butter. Coffee. 

Dinner — Baked Blue Fish. Hollandaise Sauce. Potatoes. Toma- 
to and Lettuce Mayonnaise. Bread and Butter. Bananas and 
Pears. 

Supper — StufEed Egg-plant. Bread and Butter. Berries. Cake. 

Tea. — 

Stewed Kidnev. — Put on a kidney early in the afternoon and 

let it simmer till bed-time, allow it to remain all night in thesame 

water. Ne.\t morning cut it into small pieces and stew for an hour 

or more, make brown gravy and just before serving, add two hard 

boiled eggs, sliced. 



SATURDAY, 



AUG. 

Creamed 



19 



Breakfast— Wheat Germ with Cream. 

Fish. Bread and Butter. Coffee. 
Dinner— Lamb Chops. Potatoes, Peas, Bread and Butter. 

Stewed Tomatoes. Apple Pie. Cheese. 
Supper— Sardine Salad. Bread and Butter. Berries, Cake, Tea. 

Sardine Salad. — For one large bo.x of sardines, take six hard 
boiled eggs, drain off the oil from the fish, remove the backbone, tail 
and skin, and mix thoroughly with the egg, minced fine. Season 
"with pepper and salt, serve with vinegar or mayonnaise dressing. 



SUNDAY, 



AUG. 



20 



Breakfast—California Breakfast Food with Cream. 
Baked Claras. Hot Rolls. Coffee. 

Dinner- Roast Beef. Gravy. Browned Baked Potatoes. Succo- 
tash. Vanilla Ice Cream. Cake. 

Supper— Cold Roast Bee* Thin Bread and Butter. Berries. Cake. 

Russian Tea. 

Baked Clams. — Wash and scrub the shells, put them in a large 

dripping-pan in a very hot oven and when the shells o[ en they are 

done. Serve on the half shell and let each person season them to 

taste with melted butter, pepper and vinegar. 



MONDAY, 



AUG. 



21 



Breakfast- Oatmeal with Cream. Scrambled Eggs. 

Hot Buttered Toast. CofEee. 
Dinner— Soup. Beef Olives. Potatoes. Stewed Tomatoes. Bread 

and Butter. Berry Pudding. 
Supper— Cheese Fritters. Bread and Butter. Baked Apples. 

Cream Cake. Tea. 

Cream Cake. — i cup milk, i cup sugar, 2 scant teacupfuls flour, 
2 teaspoonfuls baking powder, i tablespoonful butter, i egg. Bake 
in jelly tins in a hot oven, Fillijtk^. — A teacup of sweet cream, and 
2 tablespoonfuls sugar whipped with an egg beaten till stiff, and fla- 
vored with vanilla. The cream should be spread Qiieach layer both 
inside and outside. Keep in a cool place. 



TUESDAY, 



AUG. 



22 



Breakfast— Musk-melons. Liver and Bacon. Bread 

and Butter. Coffee. 
Dinner — Corned Beef. Cabbage. Potatoes. Boiled Onions. 

Bread and Butter. Chocolate Blanc-mange. 
Supper— Cold Sliced Corned Beef. Sliced Cucumbers, Bread and 

Butter. Sliced Pineapple. Cake. Tea. 

Boiled Onions. — Peel the onions under water, pour over boil- 
ing water and cook ten minutes, adding Jj teaspoonful salt. Drain 
and pour over boiling salted water, a second time and yet a third to 
take away the strong odor. Make a gravy of rich milk, and butter, 
season, serve very hot. 



WEDNESDAY, AUG. 



23 



Breakfast— Hominy with Cream. Corned Beef Hash. 

Bread and Butter. Coffee. 
Dinner— Veal Cutlet. Potatoes, Peas. Corn. Bread and Butter. 

Apple Pie. Cheese. 
Supper— Egg Salad. Bread andButtcr. Berries. Cake. Lemon- 
ade. 

Egg Salad,— Boil the eggs % an hour, put them in cold water 
and let stand a few minutes, then take off the shells, taking care not 
to break the egg. Cut them into halves lengthwise, take out yolks 
and mix them with i saltspoonful of dry mustard, a little pepper, 2 
tablespoon fuls vinegar, i tablespoonful olive oil. Mix very smooth 
and put back in whites. Place them on a plate and garmsh with 
lettuce. This rule is for J3 dozen eggs. 



THURSDAY, AUG. 



24 



Breakfast— Baked Apples with Cream. Hashed 

Veal on Toast. Fried Hominy. Bread and Butter. 

Coffee. 
Dinner— Irish Stew. Stewed Tomatoes. Lettuce. Bread and 

jiultcr. Water-melon. 
Supper —Fried Egg-plant. Bread and Butter. Baked Pears. 

Cake. Raspberry Shrub. 

Irish Stew. — 3 pounds of lean mutton cut into pieces not more 
than 2 inches square. Stew the meat gently in enough cold water 
to cover it. until it is tender, remove from the fire, strain off the gravy 
and set in a cool place to allow the fat to rise to the top. Skim oft 
every particle of this and return the gravy to the stove, season to 
taste with a little chopped onion and put the meat into it with a dozen 
potatoes which have been parboiled and sliced. Cook 15 minutes 
and serve very hot. 



FRIDAY, 



AUG. 



25 



Breakfast— Wheat Germ with Cream. Warmed 

over Stew. Bread and Butter. Coffee. 
Dinner— Baked Halibut. Hollandaise Sauce, Potatoes. Corn. 

Bread and Butter. Pears and Bananas. 
Supper— Baked Tomatoes. Bread and Butter. Berries. Bath 

Buns. Tea. 

Bath Buns. — J^ cup butter, \% cups sugar, 2 e^gs, i% teaspoon- 
fuls baking powder, % cup citron cut small, \% pmts flour, % cup 
milk. Lay greased muffin rings on a greased baking tin. put a large 
spoonful in each, sift sugar on and bake 15 minutes in a hot oven, or 
till brown. 



SATURDAY, AUG. 



26 



Breakfast— California Breakfast Food with Cream. 
Poached Eggs on Toast. Bread and Butter. Coffee. 

Dinner— Potato Soup. Turbot a la Creme. Potatoes. Sliced Cu- 
cumbers. Bread and Butter. Apple Float. 

Supper— Chipped Beef. Bread and Butter. Peaches and Cream. 
Cake. Tea. 

Peaches and Cream. — Pare and quarter peaches and sprinkle 
with sugar, put in a glass dish and heap whipped cream over them. 



SUNDAY, 



AUG. 



27 



Breakfast— Musk-melon. Broiled Beef Steak. 

Breakfast Puffs. Coffee. 
Dinner— Roast Chicken. Gravy. Mashed Potatoes. Squasb. 

Boiled Onions. Bread and Butter. Frozen Peaches. 
5upper — Mayonnaise of Lettuce and Tomato. Bread and Butter. 

Berries. Cake. Russian Tea. 

Frozen Peaches.— Take 2 quarts of peaches, peeled and sliced. 
sprinkle with i pound of sugar and let stand 2 hours. Mash fine, 
add I quart cold water and freeze. 



MONDAY, 



AUG. 



28 



Breakfast — Wheat Germ with Cream. Broiled Salt 

Mackerel. Bread and Butter. Coffee. 
Dinner— Clam Soup. Chicken Croquettes. Potatoes. Peas. 

Bread and Butter. Berry Pudding. 
Supper— Fried Egg-plant. Bread and Butter. Sliced Pineapple. 

Cake. Tea. 

Clam Soup.— Wash 30 clams and cook in 1% quarts boiling 
water until they open, then skim them out, chop the meat, put it 
back in the soup, add i pint hot milk, a lump of butter and a little 
pepper. Serve very hot. 



An excellent dish for breakfast or supper is made by 
shaving cold steak, or uncooked is just as good. 
Make a gravy by dusting into the spider a tablespoon- 
ful of flour and one of butter; when this browns, pour 
about a cupful of water from the teakettle, stirring 
briskly the while; this is now ready for the shaved 
beef, which will only require to be heated through, as 
boiling wilt toughen it. If gravy is not desired, just 
add a bit of butter to the shaved meat and stir until it 
is heated ; season, and it is ready to serve on a hot 
platter. — Prudence Prim in Gtod Housekeeping. 



TUESDAY, 



MAY 



30 



Breakfast. — Hominy with Cream. Omelet. Bread 

and Butter. Doughnuts. Coffee. 
Dinner.— Bean Soup, Chicken Croquettes. Potatoes. Peas. 

Bread and Butter. Rice Pudding. 
Supper.— Creamed Toast. Crackers and Cheese. Cake. Fruit. 

Tea. 

Bhan Soup. — i quart of dried beans, which have been soaked 
over night, % pound of fat salt pork. Pick over early in the morning 
in cold water, bring to a bol! and drain off the water, repeat this 
twice using boiling water, then boil 5 hours. Season, just before 
serving, pass through a colander, rubbing all the thick part through 
with a wooden spoon. 



WEDNESDAY, MAY 



31 



Breakfast.— Oatmeal with Cream. Dropped Eggs 

on Toast. Doughnuts. Coffee. 
Dinner.- Soup. Beef Rolls. Potatoes. Spinach. Bread and 

Butter. Coffee Jelly. 
Supper. — Radishes. Fresh Graham Bread. Butter. Fruit. Cake. 

lea. 

Coffee Jelly. — % box gelatine dissolved in 14 pint water, add 
I quart of good strong coffee, (boiling,) % cup sugar. Strain care- 
fully, serve with cream and sugar. 



GASTRONOMIC SCRAPS. 



Game salad is made of chopped quail and lettuce 
hearts, and in the opinion of the young girl of the 
period is " too delicious for anything." 

* * 

After a ham has been simmered, it is a great im- 
provement to put it in a moderately warm oven, with 
a buttered paper over it, and bake for an hour. This 
is a Yorkshire custom, and a good one. 

* * 

Cold chicken or turkey is good fried in batter, and 
forms a nice dish for breakfast or luncheon. Cut the 
meat neatly, and roll the pieces in flour until well cov- 
ered. Prepare a frying batter (for which any cookery 
book has recipes,) dip the fowl in this, and fry until 
golden brown in color. 



ciJlinary points. 



Boiled meats may be wrapped in thin cloths. Some 
cooks do this to prevent the scum settling on the 
meat, and giving it a mussy look. 

* 

* * 

The experienced chef wraps his fish in a sheet of 
paper before boiling it. Square napkins of cheese 
cloth are better. A sheet of paper may be placed in- 
side the napkin, which should be pinned in place. In 
this way the fish may be lifted out of the pot without 
danger of breaking apart, and be served without be- 
ing mangled by the fork. 

* 

* * 

Sardines on toast are spoken of as a novelty. They 
are by no means so, as in some portions of the West 
they have long been a favorite luucheon dish among 
ladies, especially in warm weather. There is a cus- 
tom in certain circles of sitting around a small table 
on which is a small gas stove. Slices of bread are 
toasted, and each fair one makes her own toast and 
sardine sandwich, with very thin slices of lemon for 

flavoring. 

« 
» • 

Buyers of game or poultry who find themselves in 
possession of a mature bird instead of the young one 
they desired may make a most acceptable dish by put- 
ting the fowl in a large vessel with a tight cover, and 
steaming it until it is thoroughly tender. It should be 
made ready for the dressing before the steaming pro- 
cess, and when done stuffed immediately, covered with 
the very thinnest possible slices of salt pork, and 
baked until brown in a very hot oven. The water in 
the steaming vessel must be saved for the gravy and 
for basting. — Restaurateur. 



ABOUT COFFEE. 



Coffee is the fine issue of Eastern hospitality — the 
climax of the visit. One recognizes, on entering, the 
sound of the coffee mortar ; for in every properly reg- 
ulated household in the East, the coffee is not ground, 
but pounded to an impalpable powder, having been 
roasted that morning, each day its provision, and 
pounded the moment it is needed. And no one who 
has not drunk it there and thus can presume to judge 
of the beverage. In England we roast it till it is 
black ; grind it as we would cattle food, boiling it like 
malt for beer, and, when we drink the bitter and un- 
romantic fluid which remains, say we have taken our 
coffee. The Eastern coffee drinker knows all the 
grades of berry and preparations as a silk merchant 
knows the quality of silk. The caffejee knows that to 
roast it a shade beyond the point where it breaks 
crisply under the pestle, is to spoil it, and when the 
slow pulverizing is done, each measure goes into its 
little copper ibrik; receives its dose of boiling water; 
just one of the tiny cups full rests an instant on the 
coals to restore the heat lost in the ibrik, and is poured 
into the egg-shell cup, and so it came to us, each cup 
in a gold enamelled holder. The rule in these lands 
seems to be that few things are worth doing, but these 
few are worth doing well, and there is no waste of life 

or material by over haste. — Pall Mall Gazette. 

* 

* * 

An Atlanta lady who is an excellent housekeeper, 
and whose coffee has been praised time over time, 
gives the following as the rules and regulations for 
making that delightful beverage: — "It is any easy 
matter to have good coffee. In the first place, the 
coffee must be kept in an air-tight canister, and must 
be of a good quality, and be ground as is needed. The 
coffee-pot must be kept scrupulously neat, and must 
be kept in the sunshine, whenever there is any sun- 
shine. The tea-kettle in which the water is boiled 
must also be kept clean, and fresh water must be used 
for making the coffee. The amountof coffee used must 
be bounteous, else the product will have a limp taste, 
and will fail to give satisfaction. If a good supply of 
crisp, freshly ground coffee is put into a clean pot and 
fresh boiling water is poured on and the coffee is al- 
lowed to boil a while, good coffee is the result. At 
our home we make coffee e.xtra strong; use about a 
third of a cup of good fresh milk, with the cream on 
it, and it is delightful. It is far different from much 
of the alleged coffee that a combination of stinginess 
and carelessness forces helpless people to drink." 
The lady is right. Eternal vigilance is the price of 

good coffee. — Atlanta Co>istitt4tio>K 

* 

* * 

Some one writes to the New York Times that this 
is the best way to make coffee : — " Buy the best coffee 
and grind it to the consistency of ordinary corn meal. 
Into a French teapot put an ounce of coffee for every 
person. One pound of coffee will make sixteen cups, 
and no more. Have everything clean, and as soon as 
the water in the tea-kettle begins to boil, moisten the 
coffee gently, and leave it to soak and swell for three 
minutes ; then add a little more water ; don't be in a 
hurry ; continue to add water until you have obtained 
not more than a large coffee cupful of the extract. If 
carefully done, the entire virtue of the coffee will be 
in the cupful of liquor at the end of five minutes. 
For four persons use a quart of pure milk, and have it 
piping hot. Heat the large cups by pouring into 
them hot water. Now divide the coffee into the four 
cups, each of which will be one-quarter full ; fill with 
the boiling milk." 



TUESDAY, 



AUG. 



Breakfast — Hominy with Cream. Broiled Slice of Ham. I 

Fried Potatoes. Bread and Butter. Coffee. ■*- 

Dinner— Corned Beef. Baked Cabbage. Potatoes. Beets. Bread 
and Butter. Ice Cold Rice Pudding-. 

Supper— Cold Sliced Corned Beef. Bread and Butter. Baked 
Pears. Cake. Tea. 

Baked Pears, — Fill a deep baking dish with pears that have 
been pared and quartered. For one quart of frjit add J 2 cup of 
sugar and J< cup of water. Bake, closely covered in a moderate 
oven from 2 to 3 hours. 



WEDNESDAY, 



AUG. 



Breakfast— Baked Apples with Cream. Corned Beef ^^^ 
Hash. Fried Hominy. Bread and Butter. Coffee. ^^^ 

Dinner— Roast of Veal. Gravy. Browned Baked Potatoes. Peas. 
Baked Corn. Bread and Butter. Musk-melons. 

Supper— Cold Sliced Veal. Lettuce. Berries. Cake. Lemonade. 



Baked Corn. — Cut the grains of i dozen ears of corn down the 
middle and scrape. Add i cup 01 boiling milk and J^ cup butter. 
Season to taste, put in a buttered baking dish, cover with rolled 
cracker crumbs, sprinkle with bits of butter and bake in a moderate 
oven :\' of an hour. 



THURSDAY, 



AUG. 



Breakfast — California Breakfast Food with Cream. ^^B 
Hashed Veal on Toast. Bread and Butter. Coffee. ^^ 

Dinner— Broiled Beef Steak. Potatoes. Stewed Tomatoes. String 
Hcans. Bread and Butter. Sweet Shortcake. 

Supper— Chipped Beef. Sliced Cucumbers. Bread and Butter. 
Berries. Cake. Tea. 

Sweet Shortcake. — Beat a lump of butter the size of an egg 
to a cream. Add i cup of sugar, z eggs, 1 cup of sweet milk, flour 
enough to make as suit as plain cake and i '4 teaspoonfuls of baking 
powder. Bake in ielly tins. Spread each layer thick with red rasp- 
berries, sprinkle with sugar and serve with cream. 



FRIDAY, 



AUG. 



Breakfast— Oatmeal with Cream. Broiled Lamb Chops. BS| 
Warmed Potatoes. Bread and Butter, Coffee. -*■ 

Dinner— Boiled Cod. Egg Sauce. Potatoes. Scalloped Tomatoes. 
Lettuce. Bread and Butter. Bananas. Pears, 

Supper— Stuffed Egg Plant, Bread and Butter, Berries. Cake. 
Raspberry Shrub. 

STUFFEn Egg-plant. --Parboil the egg plant and take out the 
inside. Fry an onion in butter, stir in bread crumbs, salt, pepper, 
a very little nutmeg and some meat gravy. Fill the egg-plant with 
the mixture, put in a pan, dust with rolled cracker, put on bits of 
butter and bake brown. 



SATURDAY, 



AUG. 



Breakfast— Berries. Soft Boiled Eggs. Fried Potatoes. MM 
Hot Buttered Toast. Coffee, ^^ 

Dinner^Tomato Soup. Turbot a la Cremc. Potatoes. Corn. 
Bread and Butter. Water-melon. 

5upper— Fried Tomatoes. Bread and Butter. Baked Apples. 
Cake. Tea. 

TuRBOT A LA Creme.— Put alternate layers of cold boiled cod 
and thick cream sauce in a deep buttered dish. Sprinkle in the sauce 
a little chopped parsley, cover the top with rolled cracker crumbs 
and bits of butter. Bake until brown. Any kind of left over fresh 
fish is delicious fixed in tliis way. 



SUNDAY, 



AUG. 



Breakfast— Wheat Germ with Cream. Salt Fish Balls. ^J 
Sliced Cucumbers. Bread and Butter. Coffee. ^^^ 

Dinner — Roast of Lamb. Potatoes. Peas. Carrots with Cream 
Sauce. Bread and Butter. Chocolate Ice Cream, 

5upper — Lobster Salad. Bread and Butter, Berries. Cake. 
Russian Tea. 



Chocolate Ice Cream. — i quart milk, i pint cream, 2 cups 
sugar, 2 eggs beaten light, 5 tablespoonfuls grated chocolate rubbed 
smooth in a little of the milk. Heat milk to near the boiling point, 
pour in slowly beaten eggs and sugar, let the chocolate cook until 
It thickens, stirring constantly. Cool, beat in the cream and freeze. 



MONDAY, 



AUG. 



Breakfast— California Breakfast Food with Cream. Om- ■ 

elet. Bread and Butter. Coffee. ^ 

Dinner— Beef Stew with Dumplings. Potatoes. Corn. Sliced 

Cucumbers. Bread and Butter. Blueberry Pudding with Hard 

Sauce. 

Supper— Baked Tomatoes. Bread and Butter. Baked Pears. 

Cake. Tea. 

Hard Sauce. — Cream H cup of butter with a teacupful of pul- 
verized sugar and 2 tablespoonfuls of cream. Flavor with vamlla, 
and when arranged on Lhe plate grate a little nutmeg on it. 

Children love dainty things just as much as grown 
people do, and mothers will discover that a dainty 
lunch basket will help to cultivate in either boy or girl 
the refinement which every true mother wishes her 

child to possess. 



TUESDAY, 



AUG. 



8 



Breakfast— Musk-melons. Warmed-over Stew. Hot Rolls. 

Coffee. 
Dinner— Veal Cutlet. Potatoes. Peas. Sliced Tomatoes. Bread 

and Butter. Berry Pie. Cheese. 
Supper— Fried Egg-plant. Bread and Butter. Pineapple Cake. 

Blackberries. Tea. 



Pineapple Cake, — Cake. — ^^ cup sugar, J^ cup butter, 2^ cups 
flour, 2 eggs, I cup cold water, 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder. 
Filling. — Chop a pineapple and sweeten to taste, i hour before 
making cake. Mix thoroughly and spread between layers. Dust 
powdered sugar over top layer of cake. 



WEDNESDAY, 



AUG. 



Breakfast — Wheat Germ with Cream, Chopped Veal on ^^m 
Toast. Warmed Potatoes. Bread and Butter. Coffee. ^^ 

Dinner— Roast Beef. Gravy. Browned Baked Potatoes. Stewed 
Tomatoes. Succotash. Bread and Butter. Pineapple Omelet. 

Supper — Iced M ilk. Crackers. Berries. Cake. 

Succotash. — Boil i quart lima beans until tender. Cut the com 
off I dozen ears of corn, drain off water from beans, add corn, sea- 
son and add a good sized lump of butter. Add i cup of milk or more 
if too dry, cook 20 minutes after adding corn. 



THURSDAY, AUG. 



10 



Breakfast- Berries. Soft Boiled Eggs. Hot But- 
tered Toast. Coffee. 

Dinner— Corn Chowder. Sliced Cold Roast Beef. Sliced Cucum- 
bers, Bread and Butter. Raspberry Float. 

Supper— Pot-pourri Salad. Bread and Butter, Baked Apples with 
Cream. Tea. 

Corn Chowder.— i quart raw com, i pine potatoes, a small 
piece of salt pork, i onion, i large tablespoonful butter, i pint sliced 
tomatoes, i pint milk, season to taste. Scrape the corn from the 
cob, boil the cobs 20 minutes in water enough to cover them, thea 
skim them out. Fry the onion in the salt pork and strain into com 
water, add the vegetables, simmer till potatoes are tender, then add 
butter and milk and season. Serve very hot with crackers. 



■- 



FRIDAY, 



AUG. 



II 



Breakfast— California Breakfast Food with Cream, 
l^roiled Salt Mackerel, Bread and Butter. Coffee. 

Dinner— Fried Sword Fish Steak, Boiled Potatoes. Stewed To- 
matoes. Bread and Butter. Musk-melon. 

Supper— Fried Cucumbers. Baked Pears. Plain Cake. Tea. 



Plain Cake.— i egg, i cup coffee sugar, i tablespoonful butter, 
% cup sweet milk, i^^ cup flour (not heaping), 1V2 teaspoonfuls 
baking powder. Beat the sugar and butter together for ten min- 
utes, then add other ingredients. 



SATURDAY, AUG. 



12 



Breakfast— Berries. Creamed P'ish. Warmed Po- 
tatoes. Bread and Butter. Coffee. 

Dinner— Fricassee Lamb. Mashed Potato. Peas, Bread and 
Mutter. Raspberry Float. 

Supper — Mayonnaise of Tomato and Lettuce. Thin Bread and 
Butter. Sliced Pineapple. Cake. Russian Tea. 

Fricassee Lamb.— Stew a piece of lamb (off the lower part of 
the neck) for 2 hours, then add salt and cook for ten minutes longer. 
Take out the meat and put on split soda biscuit. Season the gravy 
and thicken as you would for chicken and pour over the meat and 
crackers. 



SUNDAY, 



AUG. 

Fluffy Egg. 



13 



Breakfast— Wheat Germ and Cream. 

Breakfast Puffs. Coffee. 
Dinner— Fried Chicken. Gravy. Baked Onions. Mashed Potato. 

Sliced Cucumbers. Bread and Butter. Pineapple Sherbet. 

Plain Cake. 
Supper— Iced Milk with Crackers. Berries. Cake. 



Fluffy Egg.— Heat 5^ cup milk to the boiling point, toast three 
slices of bread, beat the whites of 2 eggs stiff, dip the toast in hot 
salted water then add a little butter to the milk and as soon as melted 
stir in lightly the beaten whites and pour over the toast. Serve at 
once. 



MONDAY, 



AUG. 

Lamb Chops. 



Breakfast — Hominy with Cream. 

Hot Buttered Toast. Coffee. 
Dinner— Veal Cutlet. Potatoes. String Beans. Bread and Butter. 

Baked Custard. 
Supper— Corn Oysters. Bread and Butter. Berries. Cake. Tea. 

Corn Ovsters. — i quart of corn scraped or grated, 3 beaten 
eggs, an even teaspoonful salt, and flour enough to hold corn to- 
gether. Drop in small cakes into a hot buttered frying-pan and 
cook brown. 



The Popular Science News cautions housekeepers 
against using lemon-squeezers covered with a coating 
of zinc, as the citric acid of the lemon will readily dis- 
solve the zinc, forming unwholesome aud poisonous 
salts. Lemon-squeezers should be made either of plain 
iron or wood, or better, with the surfaces that are 
brought in contact with the fruit made of glass or 
porcelain. 



». -V. -^ X v/'x/ w V. 



THURSDAY, 



JUNE 



Breakfast.— California Breakfast Food with Cream. Friz- ■ 
zled Beef. Bread and Butter. Doughnuts. Coflfee. ■*- 

Dinner. — Veal Cutlet. Potatoes. Asparagus. Bread and Butter. 
Cottage Pudding. Strawberry Sauce. 

Supper.— Mayonnaise of Lettuce. Bread and Butter. Steamed 
Pie Plant or Rhubarb. Cake. Cocoa. 

Steamed Rhubarb. — Wash, peel and cut rhubarb into inch 
pieces. Put into a granite double boiler, add one cup of sugar, for 
a pint of fruit, and cuuk till the rhubarb is soft. Do not stir it. 
Before cooking, pour boiling water over it and let stand five min- 
utes, then drain. 



FRIDAY, 



JUNE 



Breakfast. —Oatmeal with Cream. Hashed Veal on Toast. ^^^ 
Hot Rolls. Coffee. ^■^ 

Dinner. — Baked Shad. Hollandaise Sauce. Boiled Potatoes. 
Spinach. Bread and Butter. Cup Custard. 

Supper. — Scalloped Roes. Bread and Butter. Canned Fruit. 
Cake. Tea. 

ScAixoi'F.n Roes.— Boil the rocs, drain and break up. Sprinkle 
a layer of the roe in a baking dish, then rub the yolk of hard boiled 
eg^ through a fine strainer. Add a little parsley and lemon juice, 
moisten w:thathin white sauce, then another layer of roe, egg sauce 
and salt and pepper. Cover with fine cracker crumbs sprinkled with 
bits of butter. Bake until brown. 



SATURDAY, 



JUNE 



Breakfast. — Wheat Germ with Cream. Warmed over Fish ^^M 
on Toast. Bread and Butter. Doughnuts. Coffee. ^^ 

Dinner. — Ham and Eggs. Potatoes. Asparagus. Bread and 
Butler. Lemon Pie. Cheese. 

Supper. — Sardines with Sliced Lemon. Hot Rolls. Molasses Drop 
Cakes. Marmalade. Tea. 

Molasses Drop Cakes. — i egg^ i cup sugar, i cup molasses, i 
cup lard, i cup warm water, 2 teaspoonfuls soda, i teaspoonful gin- 
ger, flour. Drop from a spoon into a buttered dripping pan. 



SUNDAY, 



JUNE 



Breakfast. — Oatmeal with Cream. Salt Fish Balls. 

Warmed Potatoes. Hot Buttered Toast. Coffee. 
Dinner.— Roast of Lamb. Gravy. Mint Sauce. Peas. Potatoes. 
IBread and Butter. Pie Plant Pie. 
Supper.- Lobster Salad. Thin Bread and Butter. Jam. Cake. 

-^ea. 

H.Z Plant Pie. — Peel the rhubarb, cut into inch pieces, pour 
J water over it and let it stand ten minutes. Drain, fill the 
sv/eeten with i cup sugar^ cover wiih a crust. Do not use a 
?t4to bake it in. 



MONDAY, 



JUNE 

Mutton Chops (broiled.) 



Breakfast.-T-Oatmeal with Cream. 

''BVead and Butter. Doughnuts. Coffee. 
Dtn'iter'.'— Corfied Beef. Cabbage. Potatoes. Beets. Bread and 
Butter. Strawb erries in Jelly. 

^iced Corned Beef. Bread and Butter. Canned 



^t^kdy^Jjea. 



3l-i:Aw|4:RRiris3»£ Jelly. — Soak i package of gelatine in half a 
].int I'l >_n{(rwater for 2 hours ; pour upon it i pint of boiling water 
ajid^ciiriunlll disserved:;. Add a pint of strawberry juice, juice of 2 
lemons, sweeten to taste. Stir till the sugar is dissolved, then strain. 
PcoiV'sahie idly ijitanh^ moulds about half an inch deep, when firm 
strew in a layer of berries, pour over this enough liquid jelly to 
cover and when firm add fruit and continue in this way until all the 
qj^^^jRCi^)s,,h^.^^^b^gn HSi?^')- When ready to serve, heap whipped 




SDAY, JUNE 

Germ with Oe&m. Corned Beef Hash. 



DUMlerSi^sh ChT^wSSt.^om Slaw. Bread and Butter. Bread 

Supper.— BreadSL^,ii^tg)4ivjif^,jB^p^^y;pup. Strawberries. Cake. 
.*ll8?po'.»^?iT.rr ' .lalluU biij; br.oT'l ai.i 

o(,,p«jEAD,yv^Df^^WT J'm^oIN'Ci— r^e?>rlyiill a mould with slices of 
l^^CS^jainil ,Dut5,er >0raafl^t^i4VJyy>vjj5h, jam. , Pour over the whole a 
<:.V»^*.'Wdq <?r+)'#^j-ffl%H>^*V^?.'P!lfef'n^ 'A "^"P sugar. Steam 



uJ iu i i iin a ou^i i i li ^ i r 



WEDNESDAY^ 



JUNE 



I>(IWeri:rSr<}»l»dft*4*|e^lc> -fate^iteS £«3-oWi j; P/tatoes. Bread 

ajld^Butter. .Pancakes with Xelly. . , , , 

Slifejit.-sCiajto" battel 2Br8!MJfiha3BlilWrPnSt«tfe'il Pie Plant. 

-V'^ll'>£A-«IWl?^KM'?i"T^a^'f?o?rM'veSte^^Ja^'f'ul baking 
powder, a little salt. Sift, add sweet milk enough to jnaka a thick 
batter and one well beaten egg. then beat all together for one min- 

e48«0«iiir«lii^ h^0d«W5Q9tii>iri^ajjibQSiFirtri3a^fiat»isVtof^ed 
over with Jittlti holes Jind the unxier.side brown, the cakes miiv be 

AM>^iSffleapfa«^ft;^^Ha*^I(^i?flif8ft?ypa4^ 

spoonful of jelly between each. Dust the tc^^£^^t^yf«}y|y:^^^ 



THURSDAY, 



JUNE 



8 



Breakfast.— California Breakfast Food with Cream. Soft 

Boiled Eggs. Toast. Doughnuts. Coffee. 
Dinner.— Broiled Beef Steak. Potatoes. Cauliflower a la Creme. 

Bread and Butter. Custard Pie. Cheese. 
Supper. — Chipped Beef. Sally Lunn. Lemon Snaps. Currant 

Jelly. Cocoa. 

Lemon Snaps.- i large cup of sugar, a little more than half a 
cup of butter, two eggs, two tablespoonfuls of hot water, half a 
teaspoonful of soda, flavt'r with lemon, roll very thin. 



FRIDAY, 



JUNE 



Breakfast.— Indian Mush with Cream. Salt Mackerel. ^^P 
Creamed Potatoes. Bread and Butler, Coffee. ^^ 

Dinner. ^Ragout of Veal. Potatoes. Asparagus. Bread and 
Butter. Cocoanut Pudding. 

Supper. — Sliced Tomatoes Ser\'ed with Mayonnaise Dressing. 
Bread and Butter. Strawberries. Cake. Tea. 

Ragoit or Veal.— A 3 pound piece of a breast of veal; roll and 
tie in shage. Put a little butter in a stew-pan and whtn it hisses, lay 
in the meat, fry on every side to a light brown. Dredge in a table- 
spoonful of flour and add enough boiling water to nearly cover It. 
Season with salt, and a little grated lemon rind, a little mace, and 
a small capsicum pod. Stew very slowly for an hour, then add 
carrots and onions, a little chopped parsley and stew until the veal 
is tender. 



SATURDAY, 



JUNE 



10 



Breakfast.— Minced Veal on Toast. Warmed Pota- 
toes. Bread and Butter. Fried Indian Mush with 
Maple Syrup. Coffee. 
Dinner.— Chicken Poi-pie. Mashed White Potatoes. Beet Greens. 

Bread and Butter. Pie Plant Pie. 
Supper.— Chicken Salad. Thin Bread and Butter. Strawberries. 

Cake. Cocoa, 

Bket Greens. — Free from yellow or wilted leaves, and wash 
very thoroughly in cold water. Boil for 'j of an hour in i quart of 
boiling salted water. Drain in a colander, cut. and to 1 quart of 
cooked beet greens, add i tablespoonful melted butter, salt and 
pepper to taste. The roots of the young beets are boiled and ser\'ed 
with the tops. 



SUNDAY, 



JUNE 



II 



Breakfast.— California Breakfast Food with Cream, 
Fried Perch. Fried Potatoes. Toast. Coffee. 

Dinner. — Roast Beef. Gravy. Browned Baked Potatoes. Spin- 
ach. Cauliflower a la Creme. Bread and Butter. Bavarian 
Cream. 

Supper.— Sliced Tomatoes, Served on Lettuce with Mayonnaise 
Dressing. White Cake. Strawberries. Tea. 

White Cake. — The whites of 4 eggs, i cup sugar, J^ cup butter, 
% cup sweet milk, 2 cups flour, I2 teaspoonful cream tartar, K tea- 
spoonful soda, I teaspoonful lemon extract. Save the yolks in the 
ice bo.\ for custard Monday. 



MONDAY, 



JUNE 



12 



Breakfast.— Oatmeal with Milk. Poached Eggs on 

Toast. Breakfast Puffs. Coffee. 
Dinner. — Beef Soup with Crackers. Scalloped Beef. Asparagus. 

Stewed Tomatoes. Bread and Butter. Baked Custard. 
Supper.— Cauliflower Omelet. Hot Buttered Toast. Strawberries. 

Cake. Tea. 

Cauliflower Omelet.— 2 eggs, ]4 cup cold cauliflower with 
the sauce; mash the cauliflower and sauce, beat the yolks of eggs 
with it, then beat the whites and stir them gently in. Season and 
fry as any other omelet. 



TUESDAY, 



JUNE 



13 



Breakfast.— Wheat Germ with Cream. Broiled Beef 

Steak. Warmed Potatoes. Bread and Butter. 

Coffee. 
Dinner.— Roast of Lamb. Gravy. Mint Sauce. Peas. Potatoes. 

Bread and Butter. Cottage Pudding. Strawberry Sauce. 
Supper.— Mayonnaise of Lettuce, Tea Cake. Butter, Stewed 

Pie Plant. Cake. Tea. 

Tea Cake. — 1 quart flour, j4 pint new milk, 14 cup yeast, 1 tea- 
spoonful sugar. Set at noon, when light, work in a tablespoonful 
butter and tne yolks of 2 eggs, then set it again to rise. Half an 
hour before baking, roll out into biscuits, rise again. 



WEDNESDAY, JUNE 



14 



Breakfast.- California Breakfast Food with Cream. 
^linced Lamb on Toast. Bread and Butter. 
Doughnuts. Coffee. 
Dinner.—Veal Cutlet. Potatoes. Curried Rice. Bread and But- 
ter, Custard Pie. Cheese. 
Supper.— Asparagus. Bread and Butter., Strawberries. Almond 

Cake. Cocoa. 

Curried Rice. — Pick over and wash a cop of rice, and boll in 
salted water. Drain in a sieve and shake until dry. Mix a table- 
spoonful of curry powder with half a cup of the cutlet gravy and 
pour over the rice. 



THURSDAY, 



JUNE 

Creamed 



15 



Breakfast.— Strawberries. Veal Hash. 
Potatoes. Hot Rolls. Coffee. 

Dinner.— Beef Steak, Baked Potatoes. Spinach, Bread and But- 
ter. Fig Pudding. 

Supper.— Sliced Tomatoes. Bread and Butter. Orange Marma- 
lade, Cake. Tea. 

Fig Pudding.- r pound of figs, i pound beef suet, i pound 

bread crumbs, i pound brown sugar, 6 eggs. Chop the figs fine, 

along with the bread crumbs, boil 2 hours m a well buttered mould. 

Eat with foaming sauce. 



MONDAY, 



JULY 



17 



Breakfast— niucberries. Poached Eggs on Toast. 

Bread and Butter. Coffee. 
Dinner— Hroilcd Meat Cakes. Stewed Tomatoes. Potatoes. 

Bread and Butter. Water-melon. 
£upper — Fried Cucumbers. Bread and Butter. Raspberries. 

Cake. Tea. 

Water-mei-ON. — Serve the core only, taking it out with a large 
spoon in cone shaped pieces. Serve ice cold. 



TUESDAY, 



JULY 



18 



Breakfast— California Breakfast Food with Cream. 

Friz/.lcd Beef. Warmed Potatoes. Bread and 

Butter. Coffee. 
Dinner -Pot Roast. Potatoes. Green Com. Bread and Butter. 

Icltv Crackers. 
Supper— Cold Pot Roast. Sliced Tomatoes. Bread and Butter. 

Blueberries. Cake. Tea. 

Gkeen Corn. — Remove the husk and all the silk. Put in boil- 
ing salted water and cook from lo to 20 minutes. Serve covered 
with a napkin. 



WEDNESDAY, 



JULY 

Hash. Hot 



19 



Breakfast - Wheat Germ with Cream. 

R .lis. Cuffee. 
Dinner— Lamb Chops. Potatoes. Stewed Tomatoes. Bread and 

Butter. Blanc-mange. 
Supper— Mayonnaise cif Lettuce. Sally Lunn. Sliced Pineapple. 

Cake. Raspberry Shrub. 

Raspberry SHRim, — 4 quarts of red raspberries to one quart of 
vinegar. Let it stand four days and tlien strain. Tn each pint of 
juice add one pound of sugar. Boil 20 minutes, bottle and keep in 
a dry cool place. 



THURSDAY, JULY 



20 



Breakfast— Musk-melon. Omelet. Bread and But- 
ter. L ufTec. 

Dinner— Roast of Veal. Gravy. Potatoes. Stewed Tomatoes. 
Ci-rn. Bread and Butter. Coffee Jelly. 

Supper— Coid SHced Veal. Sliced Cucumbers. Bread and Butter. 
Raspberries. Cake. Russian Tea. 



MrsK-MELONS. — Cut each melon In half, remove the seeds and 
place a lump of ice in each piece. Serve with sugar or salt. 



FRIDAY, 



JULY 



21 



Breakfast— Oatmeal with Cream. Hashed Veal on 

Toast. Bread and Butter. Coffee. 
Dinner— Fried Halibut Steak. Potatoes. Cold Slaw. Bread and 

Butter. Cottage Pudding. Raspberry Sauce. 
Supper— Scalloped Tomatoes. Bread and Butter. Blackberries. 

Cuke. Lemonade. 

Raspberry Sauce.— One large tablespoonful of butter beaten 
until creamy, add gradually i'< cups powdered sugar and the beaten 
white of I egg. Beat until very light and just before serving add 
I pint of mashed raspberries. 



SATURDAY, JULY 



22 



Breakfast — Wheat Germ with Cream. Creamed 
Fish, Fried Potatoes. Bread and Butter. Coffee. 

Dinner -Corn Soup. Hamburg Steak. Potatoes. String Beans. 
J rt.iil and Butter. Pineapple Omelet. 

Supper— Scalloped Potatoes. Sliced Cucumbers. Raspberries. 
Bread and Buiter. Cake. Tea. 

Corn Soup. — Split the grains of one dozen ears of corn and 
scrape. Boil the cobs in enough water to cover them, for 10 min- 
utes. Strain this water and use 1 quart of it. Add to it i quart of 
tnilk thickened with i tablespoonful of flour and butter rubbed to- 
gether. Add the corn, season and cook 15 minutes. 



SUNDAY, 



JULY 



23 



Breakfast— Musk-melons. Broiled Fresh Mackerel. 

Creamed Potatoes. Corn Muffins. Coffee. 
Dinner — Roast of Lamb. Gravy. Mint Sauce. Mashed Potatoes. 

Peas. Corn. Bread and Butter. Pineapple Sherbet. 
Supper — Mayonnaise of Lettuce and Tomatoes. Thin Bread and 

Butter. Raspberries. Cake. Russian Tea, 

Pineapple Sherbet. — One tablespoonful gelatine soaked in i 
cup of cold water 15 minutes, then add one cup boiling water and 
stir until dissolved. Take 'i can grated pineapple and i}^ cups 
sugar, juice of i lemon. Add strained gelatine, freeze. 



MONDAY, 



JULY 



24 



Breakfaat— California Breakfast Food with Cream. 
Hashed Lamb on Toast. Bread and Butter. Coffee. 

Dinner— Beef Stew with Dumplings. Stewed Tomatoes. Pota- 
toes. Sliced Cucumbers. Bread and Butier. Huckleberry or 
Blueberry Pudding. 

Supper— Chipped Beef. Bread and Butter. Blackberries. Cake. 

Tea. 

Huckleberry Pudding.— Make the same as cottag^e pudding 

and Che last thingr stir in a large cup full of floured berries. Serve 

with hard sauce. 



TUESDAY, 



JULY 



25 



Breakfast — Wheat Germ with Cream. W^armed over 

Sll'W. Bread iind Butter. C< ffee. 
Dinner— Fried Sweetbreads. Peas. Potatoes. Sliced Cucumbers. 

Bre.id and Butler. Berry Pie. Cheese. 
Supper - Mayonnaise of Lettuce and Tomato. Bread and Butter. 

Berries. Cake. Tea, 



Berkv Pie.— Pick over the berries and sprinkle slightly with 
flour. For a quart of berries use a cup of sugar. Bake in a deep 
pie plat'j. 



WEDNESDAY, 



JULY 



23 



Breakfast— Oatmeal with Cream. Suft Boiled Egg.s. 

Sliced Tomatoes. Hot Buttered Toast. Coffee. 
Dinner — Sweetbread Croquettes. Peas. Potatoes. Sliced Cucum- 

Ijers. Bread and Butter. Bananas and Pears. 
Supper— Cheese Fritters. Bread and Butter. Berries. Cake. 

lea. 

Sweetbread Croquettes. — Make a thick cream sauce, take 
from the tire and add beaten yolks of 2 eggs. Cut cold sweetbreads 
into dice and mi.x with the sauce. When cold form into shape, roll 
in beaten e<ig then in rolled cracker and fry in boiling hot lard. 



THURSDAY, 



JULY 



2T 



Breakfast— Berries. Broiled Beef Steak. Fried 

Potatoes. Bread and Butter. Coffee. 
Dinner— Green Pea Soup. Creamed Dried Beef. Corn. Potatoes. 

Bread and Butter. Pie Plant Pie. Cheese. 
Supper— Fried Cucumbers. Bread and Butter. Sliced Pineapple. 

Cake. Russian Tea. 



Green Pe\ Sorp. — One quart of green peas, one quart of 
water, i pint of milk, J< teaspoonful salt, i tablespoonful butter, i 
tablespoonful flour, a little pepper. Boil peas in i pint of water. 
cook until soft. Mash them in the water in which they were boilea 
and rub through a colander, pouring over them a pint of hot water. 
Boil again, adding milk, sugar, butter, flour and seasoning. 



FRIDAY, 



Breakfast— Wheat Germ with Cream. (Omelet. 

Sliced Cucumbers. Bread and Butter. Coffee. 
Dinner— Baked Blue Fish. Hollandai^e Sauce. Potatoes. Corn. 

Bread and Butter. Cottage Pudding. Raspberry Sauce. 
Supper— Fried Eggf-plant. Bread and Butter. Berries. Cake. 

Tea. • 

EcG-pLANT.— Peel and cut the plant in slices less than J^ inch 
thick. Cover with salt and water a nd let stand an hour. I)rain and 
dip each slice in beaten egg and bread crumbs and fry brown. 



SATURDAY, JULY 



2d 



Breakfast — Hominy with Cream. Creamed F sh on 

Tuast. Bread and Butler. Coffee. 
Dinner— Lamb Chops. Potatoes. Peas. Lettuce. Bread and 

Butter. Water-melon, 
Supper — Corn Fritters. Bread and Butter. Berries. Cake. Tea. 

Corn Fritters.— -Grate the corn from the cob allowing one egg 
and a tablespoonful of milk to every cupful of corn. Season to taste, 
stir in the tiour to thicken, fry in boiling lard. 



SUNDAY, 



JULY 



ao 



Breakfast— Musk-melons. Fried Halibut Steak. 

Fried ilominy. Corn Bread. Coffee. 
Dinner — Broiled Spring Chicken. Potatoes. Peas. Cauliflower, 

Bread and Butter. Raspberry Sherbet. 
Supper— Sardines Garnished with Sliced Lemon. Blackberries. 

Cake. Russian Tea. 

Blackberries. — Roll a quart of large ripe blackberries in pow- 
dered sugar, set on the ice. When ready to serve pour over them 
^2 pint of whipped cream. 



MONDAY, 



JULY 

Bacon and Eggs. 



31 



Breakfast— Oatmeal with Cream. 

Uru.ul and Hutter. Coflc-e. 
Dinner— Broiled Beef Steak. Stewed Tomatoes. Potatoes. Sliced 

Cucumbers. Bread and Butter. Corn Pudding. 
Supper— Pouto Salad. Thin Bread and Butter. Berries. Cake. 

Tea. 

Corn Pudding. — Grate the corn from i dozen ears. Season 
with salt and pepper and a little sugar, add the yolks of 4 eggs, 2 
ounces of butter and a quart of sweet milk, bake in a slow oven. 
When done beat the whites of 4 eggs stitf, cover the top of the pud- 
ding with the beaten whites and put back in oven long enough to 
brow n. 



Cotton batting is iinpervious to all life germs, and if 
drawn tightly across a full jar of preserved fruit will 
prevent mould and fermentation as perfectly as if the 
jar was hermetically sealed. The use of batting is 
being adopted in the California canneries. — Spring- 
Jield Union. 

When cooking cabbage or onions, put a small quan- 
tity of vinegar in a cup on the stove. This neutral- 
izes in a great measure the disagreeable odor from the 
cooking vegetables. 



FRIDAY, JUNE f C 

Breakfast.— Oatmeal with Cream. Omelet. Bread I ^3 
and Butter. Douf;hnuts. Coffee. -^ ^^ 

Dinner.— Baked Shad. Hollandaise Sauce. Boiled Potatoes. 
Baked Cabbage. Bread and Butter. Cherry Pie. 

Supper.— Fried Shad Roes. Peas. Bread and Butter. Strawber- 
ries. Cake. Tea. 

Baked Cabbage. — Fill a pudding dish with boiled, sliced or 
minced cabbage, and pour over it two well beaten eggs, added to 
it milk enough to cover it. Sprinkle with cracker dust and bake. 


FRIDAY, JUNE 00 

Breakfast.— Strawberries. Salt Fish Balls. Warmed ^^ ^J \ 
Potatoes. Bread and Butter. Coffee. ^^^ ^^^ \ 

Dinner.— Fried Halibut. Mashed Potatoes. Lettuce. Bread and \ 
Butter. Strawberry Fritters. ? 

Supper.— Fried Tomatoes. Bread and Butter. Jam. Cake. Tea. j 

Fried Tomatoes.— Peel and slice the tomatoes thick, sprinkle \ 
each side with salt and pepper, then dip in egg, then in fine cracker \ 
crumbs and fry brown in butter. S 


SATURDAY, JUNE « A 

Breakfast.— Oatmeal with Cream. Creamed Fish ^^^^Vl ' 
on Toast. Breadand Butter. Doughnuts. Coffee. ^^P -*► < 

Dinner.— Mutton Chops. Stewed Tomatoes. Potatoes. Peas. S 
Bread and Butter. Cherry Pie. S 

Supper.- Egg Vermicelli. Sliced Cucumbers. Bread and Butter. S 
Strawberries. Cake. Tea. J 


SATURDAY, JUNE f y 

Breakfast.— Wheat Germ with Cream. Creamed 1 ■ 
Fish. Warmed Potatoes. Bread and Butter. ■*- ^ 

Dinner.— Mutton Chops. Sliced Tomatoes. Baked Potatoes. 
Peas. Bread and Butter. Chocolate Blanc-Mange. 

Supper,— Baked Beans. Boston Brown Bread. Strawberries. 
Cake. Cocoa. 

Chocolate Blanc-Mange.~i quart milk heated In a double 
boiler. When it boils add 4 heapinj; tablespoonfuls corn starch 
mixed in a little of the milk, (kept from the quart.) 4 tablespoonfuls 
sugar, yi teaspoonfulsalt, i square of Baker's chocolate scraped and 
melted. Boil 15 minutes, stirring. Take from fire and add i table- 
spoonful vanilla. Pour into moulds, serve with boiled custard. 

SUNDAY, JUNE f 

Breakfast.— Strawberries. Salt Fish Ball. Creamed 1 ^^ 
Potatoes. Breakfast I'uffs. Coffee. ■*- ^^ 

Dinner.— Roast Chicken. Gravy. Mashed Potatoes. Baked 
Unions. Spinach. Bread and Butter. Charlotte Russe. 

Supper.^-Sardincs Garnished with Sliced Lemon. Thin Breadand 
Butter. Canned Peaches. Cake. Tea. 

Baked Onions.— Peel the onions and cook in boiling water 10 
minutes, drain and pour boiling salted water the second time. When 
they begin to be tender, place in a pudding dish and pour over them 
rich milk which has been highly seasoned, cover and bake. When 
aearly cooked, take off the cover and brown. 


Sliced Cucumbers.— Peel and slice very thin, serve on cracked ? 
ice, sprinkle with salt, pepper and pour vinegar on the whole. < 


SUNDAY, JUNEOC 

Breakfast.- -Wheat Germ with Cream. Soft Boiled ^^ m'M 5 

Eggs. Creamed Potatoes. Breakfast Puffs. Coffee. ^^ ^^ \ 

Dinner.— Broiled Spring Chicken. Mashed While Potaious. Peas. \ 

Sliced Tomatoes Served with Lettuce Mayonnaise. Bread and \ 

Butter. Strawberry Shortcake. i 

Supper.— Welsh Rarebit. Bread and Butter, Strawberries. Cake. \ 

Tea. S 

Broiled Chicken.— Split down the back, clean and dry, cook \ 
the giblets in a pint of boiling water and when tender chop, put c 
back in the same water and add a teaspoonful of flour, mixed in J< \ 
cup of cream and a tablespoonful of butter. Boil until it thickens. C 
Rub the chicken with butter and broil over a clear fire. Season, 5 
serve on toast and pour the gravy over it. S 


MONDAY, JUNE Ofi 

Breakfast.- Oatmeal with Cream. Broiled Beef ^^ ^J C 
Steak. Breadand Butter. Doughnuts. Coffee. ^^^ ^^^ C 

Dinner.- Broiled Leg of Mutton. Caper Sauce. Currant Jelly. S 
Potatoes. Asparagus. Bread and Butter. Cocoanut Pudding. S 

Supper.— Cold Sliced Mutton. Scalloped Tomatoes. Bread and 3 
Butter. Strawberries. Cake. Tea. ; 

Scalloi'ed Tomatoes.— Put in a baking dish a layer of bread \ 
crumps with bits of butter and then a layer of sliced tomatoes. \ 
Sprinkle with pepper and salt and a little sugar. Alternate until the C 
dish is full. Sprinkle dried bread crumbs and bits of butter over C 
the top, and hake one hour. S 


MONDAY, JUNE 4 

B«t.akfast.— Hominy with Cream, Eggsand Bacon. 1 ^^m 
Bread and Butter. Coffee. -•- ^^ 

Dinner.— Chicken Soup. Chicken Croquettes. Peas. Potato 
' Puffs. Breadand Butter. Strawberry Shortcake. 
' Supper.— Scalloped Potatoes. Fresh Graham Bread. Strawber- 
' ries. Cake, Tea. 

[ Strawrerrv Shortcake.— I pint flour, % teaspoonful salt, i 
heaping teaipounful baking powder, }^ cup butter, i cup milk. Mix, 
roll J2 inch thick, (handling as little as possible) and bake in a shal- 
low pan 15 minutes. Tear open, spread thick with berries, sprinkle 
with sugar,, and serve with cream. 


TUESDAY, JUNE^y 

Brealdast. —Strawberries. Hashed Mutton. ^^\ ■ C 
Creamed Potatoes. Hot Rolls. Coffee. ^^^ ^ \ 

Dinner.— Corned Beef. Cabbage. Potatoes. Beets. Bread and S 
Butter. Steamed Berry Pudding. S 

.'Supper.- Cold Sliced Corned Beef. Radishes. Bread and Butter. 5 
Stewed Pie Plant. Cake. Tea. \ 

Berry Pudding.— One cup of sugar, 2 eg^s, \% teaspoonfuls > 
of baking powder, 2 cups flour, i cup sweet milk, 2 cups of straw- ; 
berries. Steam 2 hours. t 


TUESDAY, JUNE on 

Breakfast.— Strawberries. Salt Fish Balls. Warmed ^^ W M 

Potatoes. Bread and Butter. Fried Hominy with ^■^ ^^ 

Maple Syrup. Coffee. 
Dinner.— Beef Stew with Dumplings. Potatoes. Spinach. Bread 

and Butter. Cherry Pie. 
1 Supper.— Mayonnaise of Lettuce. Souffle Bread. Strawberries. 

Cake. Chocolate. 

Souffle Bread.— 2 eggs, z tablespoonfuls of flour, % teaspoon- 
ful of baking powder. Beat yolks and a tablespoonful of melted 
butter together, then add flour and just enough milk to make a very 
thick batter, add a pinch of salt and a teaspoonful sugar. Whip 
white cf eggs and stir genily in. Pour the mixture in a thick well 
greased tin and bake in a 7'ery hot oven, keep covered until well 

1 puffed up, then take cover off and brown. Serve at once, under 

1 side up. 


WEDNESDAY, JUNE #>0 

Breakfast.-Indian Mush with Milk. Beet Hash. ^^^5 ? 

Hot Buttered Toast. Coffee. ^^ ^^ > 
Dinner.— Broiled Beef Steak. Mashed Potatoes. Spinach. Bread \ 

and Butter. Cherry Pie. Cheese. \ 
Supper.- Tomatoes Served with Lettuce and Mayonnaise. Bread c 

and Butter. Strawberries. Boiled Sponge Cake. Tea. \ 

Boiled Sponge Cake.— 6 eggs, beat whites first then add yolks > 
and beat very light. % pound of granulated sugar, J^ pound of p 
flour, I gill water, juice of i lemon. Boil sugar and water together 3 
until clear. Pour into beaten eggs, beating hard until cool, then add ; 
flour and lemon juice. Bake in square sheets and cover with boiled \ 
icing. \ 

THURSDAY, JUNE AQ 

Breakfast.— Oatmeal with Cream. Omelet. Hot ^^ ^» 5 
Rolls. Doughnuts. Coffee. ^^ ^^ > 

Dinner.— Broiled Meat Cakes, Baked Potatoes. Lettuce with \ 
Mayonnaise. Bread and Butter. Pie Plant Pie. \ 

Supper.— Asparagus on Toast. Bread and Butter. Strawberries. < 
Citron Cake. Tea. J 

Citron Cake. — i cup butter, 2 cups sugar, 3 cups flour, 4 eggs, S 
1 cup milk I H teaspoonfuls baking powder. Add the last thing, i cup \ 
of floured, sliced citron. ( 


WEDNESDAY, JUNE €% ^ 

\ Breakfast,- California Breakfast Food with Cream. ^^ 1 
Warmed over Stew. Bread and Butter. Sour Milk ^•^ -^ 
\ Griddle Cakes with Maple Syrup. Coffee. 

Dinner.— Ham and Eggs. Potatoes. Asparagus. Bread and But- 
' ter. Snow Pudding. 

' Supper.— Cheese Fritters. Bread and Butter. Strawberry Short 
; Cake. Tea. 

1 Cheese Fritters. — Grate 2 ounces of cheese with 2 soupspoon- 
1 fuls of bread crumbs, % teaspoonful dry mustard, a soupspoonful 
1 butter, a httle pepper and yolk of i ege, work with a spoon till 
1 smooth. Make the mixture into small balls, flatten a little, dip into 
^ a batter and drop into very hot fat. Baiter. — i cup flour, i table- 
1 spoonful butter melted in a scant cup warm water, pour by degrees 
( to the flour. Salt to taste and add the heated white of i egg. 


FRIDAY, JUNEA/\ 

Breakfast.- California Breakfast Food, with Cream. ^^ ^^M ( 
Scrambled Eggs on Toast. Warmed Potatoes. ^^ ^^ < 
Bread and Butter. Coffee. C 

Dinner. — Boiled Blue Fish. Potatoes. Lettuce. Bread and ( 
Butter. Cherry Pie. Cheese. S 

Supper. — Asparagus on Toast. Bread and Butter. Strawberries. $ 
Cake. Tea. S 

Boiled Blue Fish.— Simmer the fish in salted boiling water, C 
just enough to cover, allowing ten minutes for each pound. Skim \ 
occasionally. When the skin is cracked it is done. Sauce.— WiXTi. \ 
tablespoonful of corn starch to a paste. Add to it a pint of water 5 
in which the fish has been boiled, boil, flavor with lemon juice, 5 
catsup, salt and pepper. Garnish the fish with sprigs of parsley J 
and slices of hard boiled eggs. Pour the sauce over all. > 


THURSDAY, JUNE A O 

) Breakfast.— Strawberries. Scrambled Eggs. Fried ^T^ ^T^ 
/ Indian Mush with MapleSyrup. Bread and Butter. ^■P ^■P 
? Dinner. — Mutton Cutlets au Kromage. Potatoes. Peas. Bread 
; and Butter. Strawberry Shortcake. 
) Supper.— Radishes. Bread and Butter. Pitted Cherries. Cake. 

Lhocolate. 

1 Mltton Cutlets au Fromage.— 2 pounds of cutlets cut J^ inch 
) thick. 2 eggs beaten light, % cup of very fine bread crumbs, % cup 
< of grated cheese, %. can of tomatoes. Trim all the fat from the cut- 
l lets, dip them in the beaten ^%<g and then in the bread crumbs and 
/ cheese. Fry a light brown in boiling lard. Stew the tomatoes until 
} tender with Jii onion, rub through a colander, season, return to the 
/ lire, thicken with a little browned flour and pour over the cutlets. 



SATURDAY, 



JULY 



Breakfast— Oatmeal with Cream. Creamed Fish. Hot ■ 
Buttered Toast. Coffee. „ ^ 

Dinner— Beef Stew with Dumplings. Potatoes. Beet Greens. 
Bread and Butter. Bavarian Cream. 

Supper— Scalloped Potatoes. Strawberries and Whipped Cream. 
Sally Lunn Cake. Tea. 

SteawB'-Rhies and Whipped Cream.— Place a layer of straw- 
berries in a glass Hish. cover with pulverized sugar, put on more 
berries, bover the top with Ji pint cream and % cup sugar whipped 
together. ^^__ 



SUNDAY, 



JULY 



Breakfast— Oatmeal with Cream. Salt Fish Balls. Hot |^^ 
Buttered Toast. Coffee. „ „ ^^ 

Dinner— Roast of Lamb. Gravy. Mint Sauce. Peas. Potatoes. 
Bread and Butter. Ice Cream. Plain Cake. , „ ■ 

Supper— Lobster Salad. Thin Bread and Butter. Canned Fruit. 
Cake. Tea. 

Mint Sauce.— i cup of fresh chopped mint, \i cup of sugar, li 
cup vinegar. Do not cook, but mix and let stand two hours before 



MONDAY, 



JULY 



Bread and Butter. Pittied 



Breakfast— California Breakfast Food with Cream. Friz- ^B 
zlcd Beef. Bread and Butter. Doughnuts. Coffee. _^^ 

Dinner— Veal Cutlet. Potatoes. Asparagus. Bread and Butter. 
Cottage Pudding. Strawberry Sauce. 

Supper— Mavonnaise of Lettuce. " 
Cherries. Cake. Cocoa. 

Frizzled Beef.— One tablespoonful of butter, M pound chipped 
beef. Put butter in frying pan and when it is melted add the beef. 
Cook until the meat is crisp and brown. 



TUESDAY, 



JULY 



Warmed Pota- 



Breakfast— Cherries. Fried Salt Mackerel 
tijus. Bread and Butter. Coffee. 

Dinner— Soup. Beef Olives. Potatoes. Sliced Cucumbers. Bread 
and Butter. Pineapple Trifle. -.,,.„ , . „ 

Supper— Lettuce and Tomatoe Mayonnaise. Thin Bread and But- 
ter. Cup Custard. Cake. Tea. 



Pineapple Triple.- Soak an ounce of gelatine in a ;up of cold 
water put into a bowl with 2 cups of white sugar, i peeled and 
chopped pineapple, a little grated nutmeg, the juice and rind of a 
lemon Mi.\ and let it stand an hour, pour on q cups of boiling watar, 
strain and squeeze hard, set on ice to cool. When it jellies, whip the 
whites of 4 eggs and drop in a spoonful at a time. Beat gently and 
let it harden. Cover to top with meringue in which is grated 
pineapple. 



WEDNESDAY, 



JULY 



5 



Breakfast- Oatmeal with Cream. Soft Boiled Eggs. Hot 
Buttered Toast, Doughnuts. Coffee. 

Dinner— Corned Beef. Cauliflower. Beets. Potatoes. Bread 
and Butter. Pie Plant Pie. Cheese. „ , , „ 

Supper -Sliced Corned Beef. Fried Cucumbers. Bread and But- 
ter. Strawberries. Cake. Tea. 



Fried Cucumbers.— Slice, sprinkle with salt and pepper, dip in 
egg then in rolled cracker. Fry brown. 



THURSDAY, 



JULY 



Breakfast— Strawberries. Corned Beef Hash. Hot Rolls. 

Coffee. r> J J 

Dinner— Broiled Beef Steak. Potatoes. Asparagus. Bread and 

Butter. Strawberry Fritters. , „. „. 

Supper— Baked Tomatoes. Bread and Butter. Stewed Pie Plant. 

Cake. Cocoa. 

Baked Tom.\toes.— Cut a slice from the blossom end, take out 
the seeds and fill with dressing made of bread and butter, minced 
onion, salt and pepper and the seeds. Put back the blossom slice 
and bake half an hour. 



FRIDAY, 



JULY 

Omelet. Bread 



Breakfast — Wheat Germ with Cream. 

and Butter. Coffee. „,.,„. T, 

Dinner— Baked Shad. Hollandaise Sauce. Sliced Tomatoes. Po- 
tatoes. Bread and Butter, yueen of Puddings. 

Supper— Scalloped Roes. Bread and Butter. Currants. Cake. 

Tea. 

Currants —Select perfect bunches of red and white currants, 

mix and pile in a glass dish, sprinkle freely with sugar and set on ice. 

Dip each bunch in sugar as it is eaten. 



SATURDAY, 



JULY 



8 



Breakfast— Strawberries. Creamed Fish. Corn Bread. 

Dinner — Chops. Peas. Baked Potatoes. Bread and Butter. 

Cherry Pie. Cheese. 
Supper— Mayonnaise of Tomatoes and Lettuce. Bread and Butter. 

Pittied Cherries. Cake. Iced Tea or Russian Tea. 

Iced Tea or Russian Tea.— Strain the tea from the grounds 
and put in a cool place. When ready to serve, half fill a glass with 
broken ice, add a slice of lemon and then fill the glass with cold tea. 
Pass the sugar so that each may sweeten to uste. 



LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 



SUNDy 



014 519 238 9 % 

rtiiu ouiier. \_urrants. 



Breakfast— Cherries. Broiled 

toes. Breakfast Puffs. Coff 
Dinner — Roast Veal. Gra 

Stewed Tomatoes. Bread a. 
Supper — Sliced Veal. Lettuce. . 

Cake. Russian Tea. 

Strawberry Ice Cream. — Sprinkle sugar over the berries, mash 
and rub throug"h a fine sieve. Measure the juice and use i pint of 
juice to 2 quarts of cream or custard. Sweeten to taste. Use canned 
berries if ripe fruit cannot be obtained. Freeze. 



MONDAY, 



JULY 



10 



Breakfast — California Breakfast Food with Cream. 

Hashed Veal on Toast. Bread and Butter. Coffee. 
Dinner— Broiled Meat Cakes. Potatoes. String Beans. Bread 

and Butter. Cherry Pudding. 
Supper — Little Neck Clam Saute. Bread and Butter. Strawber- 

ies. Cake. Tea. 

String Beans. — Remove the strings, break them into inch pie- 
ces, wash and cook in boiling salted water one hour or until tender. 
Drain and serve hot seasoned with salt, pepper and a little butter. 



TUESDAY, 



JULY 



II 



Breakfast— Wheat Germ with Cream. Soft Boiled 

Eggs. Hot Rolls. CofTee. 
Dinner— Roast Beef. Gra\-y. Browned Baked Potatoes. Salad 

Pot-pourri. Stewed Tomatoes. Bread and Butter. Pie Plant 

Pie. Cheese. 
Supper— Cold Sliced Roast Beef. Lettuce, Bread and Butter. 

Currants. Cake. Russian Tea. 

Salad Pot-poi'rri.— Take remains of vegetables, such as beans, 
beets and potatoes, put them in a salad bowl in alternate layers, with 
thin rings of sliced onion between each layer. Salt and pepper to 
taste. Pour over it a French dressing made as follows: i table- 
spoonful made mustard, 2 tablespoonfuls olive oil, 4 tablespoonfuls 
of vinegar, i tablespoonful white sugar, i teaspoonful salt. Do not 
cook, simply mix. 



WEDNESDAY, JULY 



12 



Breakfast — Wheat Germ with Cream. Hashed Veal 
on Toast. Creamed Potatoes. Hot Rolls. Coffee. 

Dinner— Broiled Spring Chicken. Potatoes. Peas. Tomatoes 
Served with Lettuce and Mayonnaise. Bread and Butter. 
Cherry Pudding. 

Supper — Cheese. Bread and Butter. Strawberry Shortcake. Tea. 

Cherry Pidding. — 2 cups of flour, 2 teaspoonfuls of baking 
powder, J.; teaspoonful salt, i cup milk, 2 tablespoonfuls melted 
butter, 2 eggs, V2 cup sugar, 1 pint pittied cherries which have been 
well floured. Steam 2 hours. Serve with foaming sauce. 



13 



THURSDAY, JULY 

Breakfast— Raspberries, Ham and Eggs. Bread 
and Butter. Coffee. 

Dinner — Veal Chops. Peas. Potatoes. Bread and Butter. Va- 
nilla Ice Cream. 

Supper^Sardines Garnished with Slices of Lemon. Bread and 
butter. Raspberries. Cake. Tea. 

Vanilla Ice Cream. — i pint of milk, i cup of sugar, 2 table- 
spoonfuls of flour, I saltspoonful of salt, 2 eggs, i pint of cream, i 
tablespoonful of vanilla. Beat sugar, flour, salt and eggs, add boil- 
ing milk, turn into double boiler and cook 20 minutes. When cooJ, 
add cream and flavoring. Freeze. 



FRIDAY, 



JULY 

Hashed Veal on 



14 



Sliced 



Breakfast^Hominy with Cream. 

Toast. Bread and Butter. Coffee. 
Dinner— Baked Blue Fish. Hollandaise Sauce. Potatoes, 

Tomatoes. Bread and Butter. Raspberry Float. 
Supper— Sliced Cucumbers. Bread and Butter. Currants. Cake. 

Tea. 

Raspberry Float.— Crush a quart of ripe red raspberries with 
a gill of sugar. Beat the whites of 3 eggs to a stiff froth and add 
gradually a teacup of sugar. Press the berries through a strainer 
and beat the juice with the egg and sugar until stiff. 
fuls into individual sauce dishes. 



Drop in spoon- 



SATURDAY, 



JULY 



15 



Breakfast— Raspberries. Creamed Fish. Fried 

Hominy. Bread and Butter. Coffee. 
Dinner — Broiled Beef Steak. Mashed Potatoes. String Beans. 

Bread and Butter. Baked Custard. 
Supper— Baked Tomatoes. Bread and Butter. SUced Pineapple. 

Cake. Tea. 

Sliced Pineapple.— Pare, remove the eyes and cut in thin slices. 
Then remove the hard center and sprinkle each layer with sugar. 
Keep on ice until ready to serve. 



SUNDAY, 



JULY 



16 



Breakfast— California Breakfast Food with Cream. 
Broiled Fresh Mackerel. Breakfast Puffs. Coffee. 
Dinner— Chicken Pot-pie. Potatoes. Peas. Mayonnaise of Let- 
tuce and Tomatoes. Bread and Butter. Raspberry Sherbet. 
Supper— Chicken Salad. Thin Bread and Butter. Blueberries. 

Cake. Tea. 

RaSpberkv Sherbet.— I pint of berry juice, i pint sugar, i pin- 
water, juice of 2 lemons, i tablespoonful gelatine. Soak the gclat 
tine in 'A cup of cold water, add 'A cup boiling water and when the 
gelatine is dissolved add the sugar and a cup of cold water and the 
berry juice. Strain when the sugar is dissolved and freeze. 



014 



HoU 



LIBRPRY OF CONGRESS 



014 519 238 9V 



Hollinger Corp. 
pH8.5 



