


/\^^jy'W:' 



COaK: IKJUK, 



smmmtatimimmmtmsmMm'x-^ 



TX 



's5Ta 



^ 



LIBRARY OF CONGRESS. 






Shelf. 



.S5.12> 



UNITED STATES OF AMERICA. 



/ 



The Exchange 
COOK BOOK 



COMPILED BY/ 



MRS. W. K. SHUXX, 



From Receipts contributed by Friends in Springfield and 
OTHER Cities. 



THIS EDITION WILL BE SOLD FOH THE BENEFIT OF THE '! 



WOMAN'S EXCHANGE, 

OF SPRINGFIELD. ILL. 




SPKINGFIELD, ILL.: ,-j»-*m-— — ■ ^ f 

Phillips Bros., Printers and Binders, rf^ i ^ % ^\:.^' 






AV4 



Entered act'ording to Act of Congress, in the j^ear 1^92, by Mrs. W. K. Shutt, 
in the office of the Librarian of Congress, at Washington. 



(\ ntrodiictory . 



Cookery is almost an exact science. The woman who says: 
"I don't know what is the matter, I didn't have any Inck 
with my cake, to-day," is usually the woman whose receipts 
contain directions to use a "little" of this, a "handful" of 
that, a "pinch" of the other. This sort of haphazard cook- 
ing is only successful where the cook has had great and 
varied experience, the cook who is no longer an artisan 
working by fixed rules, but the one who has l)ecome an 
artist and is guided by a sort of inspiration, but like geniuses 
of every sort they are "born not made,'" and are few and far 
between, while every woman ought to know something 
about cookery. It is hoped this little book will be of some 
service. It is compiled according to two principles: first, 
that if one knows how to make one good dish of a certain 
class, all others of the same class can be made according to 
the same directions with change of materials alone. For 
instance, if the cook knows how to make good chicken salad, 
she will be equally successful with shrimp. Second, that a 
few tried receipts are more satisfactory than a great many 
whose merit can not be certified to, hence not more than one 
receipt will be given for any one dish, unless the methods 
are very different. 

Whenever it was possible to find new receipts they have 
been published, but reliability has in no case been sacrificed 
to novelty. 

Thanks are returned to the friends who kindly sent re- 
ceipts, also to those whose advertisements are found in this 
book. 

This edition, to be sold for the benefit of the Woman's 
Exchange of Springfield, 111., was nearly all subscribed for 
before one line was printed. 



Kilchea f oaveaieaces. 



The cook like every other workman needs good tools to 
produce good results, and every \vell-;\p])ointed kitchen 
should contain an abundance of the ordinary utensils and 
all such articles as lighten lal)or. The ingenuity of men 
and women, too, is continually being exercised to invent 
new machines for making housework easy. The thoughtful 
housekee])er will secure such of these as she finds service- 
able. One of the best kitchen conveniences of the present 
day is the gas stove; no housekeejier once having one would 
on any account dispense with it. All cooking that can be 
done on any other stove can be done as well or better on the 
H'as stove — broiling especially, 'i'hen there is no smoke, no 
ashes, and it is always ready for instant use. 

Be sure to have in your kitchen a cream whip, a Dover 
egg beater, also wire ones, a split cake spoon, a paddle for 
beating cake and mnsh, a wire frying basket, lemon squeezers, 
rotary grater and slicer, machine for cutting potato balls, 
poached egg pan, covered roasting pan, fi'uit press, waffle 
irons, ice cream freezer, small sausage grinder, steamer of 
several stories, rice boilers or double sauce })ans. Besides 
these inventions there are many other sim]>le things which 
ought to be in every kitchen, but which often are not; among 
the mo*t useful of these is a pair of scissors to cut meats and 
celery for salads, a wooden mallet to beat biscuits and to 
crack ice, strong bags to hold ice to be cracked, small ones 
for ice for the table, and a large, coarse one to crack ice 
for the ice cream freezer, jelly bags, coarse and tine; 



Exchange Cook Book. 



brushes to coat bread and pastry with melted butter or egg, 
a stiff brush like a nail brush to brush potatoes, different 
l)rushes for scrubbing tlie kitchen fioor, the bread board, and 
the tables, a wire dish cloth, a theimometer, butter paddles, 
funnels, waxed paper, jelly and pudding molds, cake pans of 
all kinds, tish kettle for l)oiling lish, and a clock. 

Tlic kitchen napery ought to be abundant, too, and plenty 
of thick tloor cloths and strong dish cloths should l)e i)ro- 
vided in addition to dish towels and glass towels. 

Such cleansing materials as ammonia, sapolio, and con- 
centrated lye f<hould be found in every kitchen. They will 
help to keep the sink and refrigerator sweet and clean. 

It is safer to have the sink supported on legs and not 
boxed in. If it is lined with graniteware or porcelain it will 
be much easier to keep clean. 

The kitchen iioor should be either hard wood or covered 
M'ith linoleum, A carpet absorbs too much grease even to 
be thought of. Make the kitchen as bright and attractive as 
possible. Remember some one has to spend a large part of 
her time in that room. If you are not your own cook, it is 
very hkely that the kitchen in the evening will be the place 
where your cook will receive her guests. Better meals will 
be cooked in a pleasant kitchen, and if it is bright and clean 
looking it will be an incentive to the cook to keep it so. 

Altogether the happiness of the entire family is likely to 
be guaged by the appearance of the kitchen. 



Exchange Cook Book. 



Soups. 



The foundation of all good soup is the stock. Beef makes 
the best stock, but poultry and veal are sometimes used. The 
cracked bones are almost as useful in making soup as the 
lean meat, as they contain a large amount of gelatine. For 
every pound of meat and cracked bone, allow a pint and a 
half of cold water. As soon as it comes to a boil skim care- 
fully, and set it on the back of the stove where it will only 
simmer for four or five hours. If the water boils away, add 
boiling water, never cold. Use a teaspoonful of salt for 
every quart of stock; the salt to be added just before the 
stock is taken from the stove. Strain into a crock or bowl, 
and when cold remove all fat. By using this stock as a 
basis, soup of almost any kind can be made in a very short 
time. 

CARAMEL. 

For coloring soups and gravies. Put into a saucepan a 
tablespoonful of water and half pound of sugar, put over the 
fire and stir continually until it is very dark brown; but do 
not let it burn. When brown, add a teacup of water, strain 
and bottle; use when needed. 

CROUTONS. 

Cut stale bread into dice about half an inch, fry until 
brown in hot lard, or butter, or brown in tlie oven. To be 
added while hot to any soup. 



Exchange Cook Book. 



FORCE MEAT BALLS. 

Chop any kind of meat or poultry very fine, season with 
salt, pepper, a slice of onion and a little parsley chopped 
together; bind together with an egg beaten well, roll in little 
balls, dip in egg, then in crumbs; fi-y a golden brown and 
add to the soup just before serving. If preferred they may 
be cooked iti boiling water. 

It is a new fad to serve a white soup, such as cream of 
asparagus or tomato bisque, with whipped cream on top 
instead of bouillon, at lunchons. It should be served in cups. 

NOODLES FOR SOUP. 

One egg, one saltspoonful of salt; ilour, enough to make 
a very stiff dough; roll out very thin; dredge with Hour; 
then roll up tightly; cut off in thin slices. 

TOMATO SOUP. 

One can of tomatoes, one quart of water, slice of onion, 
boil half an hour, strain through the fruit press; add half a 
cup of rice, boil till soft; season with a tablespoonful of 
butter, and salt to taste. 

VEGETABLE SOUP. 

Boil a small shank of beef three hours in four quarts of 
water; strain and return to the pot; add one pint of finely 
chopped vegetables, using equal portions of carrot, turnip, 
potato, and celery; also, a slice of onion and a little chopped 
parsley. Season to taste with salt and pepper. 

AMBER SOUP. 

Cut up a chicken, put it in three quarts of water with a 
soup bone. Boil slowly for four hours; then add an onion 
with half a dozen cloves stuck in it, and fried in hot lard; 
cut. u|) half a carrot, a little })arsley, and thi-ee stalks of 
celery, and cook for another hour; strain into a large bowl 
and next dav remove the grease from the top; take out the 



ExcHAXGE Cook Book. 



stock, which should be jellied; remove all settlings; put on 
to boil, skim, then put in the beaten white of an egg with 
the shell broken into it; skim off carefully, and strain 
through a fine strainer. It must be heated when Avanted, 
and caramel added if a rich color is desired. 

MOCK BISQUE SOUP 

Boil a quart can of tomatoes, add a teaspoonful of soda. 
Boil nearly three pints of milk, reserving the rest of the 
milk to mix a tablespoonful of flour. Add the cold milk 
and flour to the boiling milk, and cook five minutes; strain 
the tomatoes, add tablespoonful of butter, pepper and salt to 
taste; mix with the thickened milk, and serve immediately. 

MOCK TURTLE SOUP. 

Two quarts of strong stock, one quart of black beans soak- 
ed over night, and boiled until soft and mashed through a 
eoUander, add to the stock and boil half an hour; put in the 
soup half a teaspoonful of ground cloves, pepper and cinna- 
mon mixed in equal quantities; one teaspoonful brown sugar, 
and salt to taste. In the soup tureen slice one lemon, two 
hard boiled eggs, chopped, half a dozen force meat balls, and 
a glass of sherry. Pour over these the hot soup and serve. 

GREEN CORN SOUP. 

One pint of grated corn, one pint of milk, one teaspoonful 
of sugai, one tablespoonful of flour, one tablespoonful of 
butter, one teaspoonful of salt, one half saltspoonful of white 
pepper, one quart of water. Mix the flour with the milk grad- 
ually to prevent lumping; boil all the other ingredients 
together half an hour; add the milk and flour, boil five 
minutes more; serve. 

GUMBO SOUP. 

For chicken gumbo take one grown chicken, boil it in 
two quarts of water; add one cup of peeled and chopped 



Exchange Cook Book. 



tomatoes, one quart sliced okra, either green or canned (I 
have never found any dried that I could use), a small piece 
of red pepper, or a little Cayenne pepper, salt to taste; boil 
one hour. Shrimp, crab and oyster gumbo are made the 
same, except instead of the chicken use stock two quarts, 
and add a can of either shrimps, crabs or oysters, about five 
minutes before serving. Gumbo is always served with a 
dish of rice. The rice is washed several times, then add 
just enough cold water to prevent burning, cover and cook 
over a rather slow fire, when nearly done uncover, and allow 
the steam to escape. 'J'he rice will be very white and each 
grain whole. In serving the gumbo, first })ut a tablespoontul 
of rice in each soup plate, and then till with gumbo. 

BOUILLON. 

For every pound of lean beef allow one })int of cohl water, 
let it simmer slowly for four hours, when it shouhl be re- 
duced one half, strain and put away to cool; remove every 
particle of grease, season with salt and a little red pepper, 
carefully pour otf the )>ouillon, leaving the sediment in the 
bottom of the bowl; serve either cold or hot as desired. This 
bouillon is especially for the sick. For other bouillon })ut a 
bunch of soup vegetai)les in the water with the meat, other- 
wise the same. 

ASPARAGUS SOUR 

Cut one quart of asjtaragus in inch lengths, boil in one 
quart of water until tender, rub through a collander and 
return to the water in which it was boiled. Heat one pint 
of milk and pour it over one tablespoontul of butter and one 
tablespoonful of tiour rubbed together, let it boil up, then 
add it to the asparagus, season with salt and pepper; when 
boiling hot pour over toasted bread cut into dice. Serve at 
once. 



10 Exchange Cook Book. 

CREAM OF CELERY SOUP. 

Pat a knuckle of veal into three quarts of cold water, with 
a pint of finely cut celery and a teaspoonful of salt; boil two 
hours, add a tablespoonful of uncooked rice, boil one hour 
longer, strain and add a teacup of sweet cream with two 
tablespoonsful of Hour, mixed witli the cream; strain again, 
let it boil up and serve. 

RICE CREAM SOUR 

Pic'v six even tablespoonsful of rice, put it with a quart of 
warm water into an earthen dish, and place in a moderately 
warm oven; when the water is all absorbed add a quart of 
rich milk, one-fourth teaspoonful of salt, turn all into a 
kettle to boil for a few minutes or until the rice is well done, 
add a cupful of sweet cream and serve. — Mrs. Caroline 
Dorioin. 



Fish. 



In selecting fresh fish the eyes should be clear and full, 
the gills red, and the flesh firm. Fish should always be well 
cleaned and kept in a cool place until ready to cook. In fry- 
ing fish use good fresh lard, or lard and beef suet mixed. Use 
the ware basket if they are to be fried in a kettle with enough 
lard to cover them; but many prefer them fried in a skillet, 
with only a small quantity of grease. If fish are to be boiled 
they should be put into cold water and let it come to a boil. 
If they are to be steamed it is better to pour over them some 
vinegar seasoned with pepper and salt, the vinegar to l^e 
poured off before they are put in the steamer. 



Exchange Cook Book. 11 

BOILED FISH. 

Wrap the fish in a cloth, place in the fish boiler with 
enough cold water to cover it, to which add half a cup of 
vinegar and three tablespoonsful of salt. Boil a medium 
sized fish for half an hour. Dish on a hot platter, garnish 
with parsley and slices of lemon and hard boiled eggs, also a 
tablespoonful of capers. Make a drawn butter sauce and 
pour over all. 

FRIED FISH. 

Roll in bread crumbs or corn meal and fry in hot lard or 
oil sufiicient to cover. Tf the grease is hot the fish will not 
absorb it; when browned on one side turn over, and brown 
on the other; drain on paper in a warm oven. Serve very 
hot and garnish with parsley and sliced lemon. 

STEAMED FISH. 

As directed, pour over the fish, vinegar and salt and pepper. 
When ready to cook pour ofi:', and place in the steamer in a 
circle, fastening the head and tail together with a skewer; 
steam half an hour, and serve with the folh)wing sauce: 

SAUCE FOR BOILED OR STEAMED FISH. 

Put a heaping tablespoonful of butter and a scant one of 
flour in a saucepan, cook until the butter and fiour froth. 
Add gradually rather more than half a pint of hot water, the 
juice of half a lemon, two hard boiled eggs cut into dice, and 
one tablespoonful of capers. Boil for about one minute, 
seasoning to taste with salt and cayenne pep[)er. 

TO BROIL FISH. 

A fish to broil must not be too large as it is difticult to 
broil a large fish thoroughly done in the middle. A fish 
weighing two pounds is a very good size for broiling. Split 
open and put on a wire broiler, putting it rather far away 
from the fire at first, otherwise it will burn on the outside 



12 ExcHAXGE Cook Book. 



before it is done in the middle. Afterwards put nearer the 
coals, and when nicely browned, salt and serve on a hot 
platter with a Maitre d' Hotel sauce. 

MAITRE D' HOTEL SAUCE. 

Melt one heaping tablespoonful of butter, and add to it 
the juice of one lemon and two heaping- teaspoonsful of finely 
chopped parsley. Beat all together thorouglily, and i)our 
over the fish. 

BAKED FISH. 

Any of the larger tish are suitable for baking. Make a 
stuffing of bread or crackers, crumbed; season with butter, 
salt, pepper and a little grated onion, it" you like that flavor. 
Put in a pan with a tablespoonful of butter and half a }>int 
of water. Bake three quarters of an hour if the fish weighs 
three or four pounds. 

Instead of water the same kind of fish can Inive a can of 
tomatoes poured over it and baked. It is very nice. 

FISH CROQUETTES. 

There is no better way of using remains of cold fish than 
by making croquettes. Any sort of fish can be used, and 
even cod fish balls are better made after this recipe. Pick 
the fish carefully to pieces, rejecting all bones and skin. If 
you have cold potatoes they are a very nice addition. In a 
saucepan put one tablespoonful of melted butter and one 
heaping one of fiour. Boil together for a moment, then 
gradually add one half pint of milk, stirring all the time. 
Season with salt, cayenne pepper and parslev. A little onion 
too may be added. Now stir in one pint of fish, or of fish 
and potatoes mixed. Take from the fire, and put on a platter 
to cool. When entirely cold make into cylinders or balls. 
Koll in cracker crumbs, then in yolk of egg, then in cracker 
cruraV)s again. Fry in hot lard. Test the lard to see if it is 
hot enougn by dropping in a piece of bread, if it browns in a 



Exchange Ccok Book. 13 

minute the lard is right. Fry to a pale brown, and take out 
on paper to absorb the grease. 

SCALLOPED FISH. 

Another easy way to use remains of fish is to pick the fish 
to pieces and stir it into a white cream sauce, made as in the 
foregoing recei[)t; the proportion of fish to sauce being the 
same. Put into a baking dish, or into individual shells, 
cover with cracker crumbs and little fiakes of butter, and 
bake tor a few minutes in a (piick oven. 

TURBOT, A LA CREME AU GRATIN. 

Boil a fresh cod fish or trout or white fish weighing from 
four to ^ve pounds. Pick out all the bones and skin, and 
season lightly with white pe})per and salt. Take one quart 
of milk and mix in it smoothly one fourth pound of flour. 
Put in five very small onions, sliced, a sprig of thyme (or a 
tablespoonful of pressed thyme tied in a muslin rag), and a 
bunch of parsley, add a little grated nutmeg, a teaspoonful 
of salt and one fourth teasi)Oonful of white pepper or a pinch 
of red. Place over a (juick fire in doul)le boiler, and stir 
constantly till it fornis a thick ])aste. Take it ofi:', stir in 
butter the size of an egg and the yolks of two eggs. Mix all 
together and pass through a seive. Then put a layer of 
sauce into a baking dish or shell, add a layer of fish and a 
layer of sauce alternately till both are used. Sprinkle top of 
either dish or shells with grated bread crumbs and Parmesan 
cheese. Put into a moderate warm oven and bake half an 
hour for dish, but only fifteen minutes for shells. — J/av. C. 

LOBSl^EE TERRAPIN. 

C'Ut into dice two cold boiled lobsters, two hard boiled 
eggs. Make a rich cream dressing, into which put the lob- 
ster, cooking thoroughly. Then flavor with sherry, adding 
the- egg last. Serve on a dish with pieces of coral and par- 



14 Exchange Cook Book. 



sley for decoration, or in boxes with the coral and parsley 
on top. The canned lobster will do when the fresh cannot 
be obtained.— ilfns. T. S. Wood. 



Oystef^s. 



C^REAMED OYSTERS. 

One quart of oysters, one pint of cream, one tablespoont'ul 
of butter, one tal)lespoonful of flour, one slice of onion, one 
half teaspoonful of salt, one fourth teaspoonful of white 
pepper. Wash the oysters, remove all bits of shell, strain 
the liquor, cook the oysters in it until ruffled. Scald the 
cream, add mace and slice of onion, skim the oysters, drain 
the liquor from them. If cream is rich, no butter is needed. 
Put butter and flour together into saucepan, cook until 
smooth and frothy, add a little cream at a time; boiling, 
stirring constantly until smooth, when add oysters. — Mrs. 
Thos. D. Logan. 

OYSTER STEW. 

To one pint and a half of new milk add the liquor of one 
can of fresh oysters and one half teacup of butter. Let it 
come to a boil. Mix two teaspoonsful -f flour with a little 
milk, and pour into the stew. Then add the oysters; pepper 
and salt to taste. Boil half a minute and serve. 

OYSTERS ON TOAST. 

Take the liquor from a can of oysters and heat it very hot. 
Toast a dozen slices of bread from which the crust has been 
cut. Dip each one quickly in the hot oyster liquor, and lay 
them all on a hot platter. Melt a tablespoonful of butter, 



ExcHAMiiE Cook Book. 15 

and when very hot put in the oysters already drained. Cook 
for one minute, turning constantly; season with salt and 
pepper. Spread on the toast and serve at once. 

PIE OF OYSTERS AND SWEET-BREADS. 

Boil for twenty minutes in salted water, one large sweet- 
bread. When done throw into cold water, drain and cut 
into small pieces, being careful to remove every particle of 
skin and strings. Take one pint of oysters, strain, saving 
the liquor. Make a sauce as follows: Butter, size of an 
egg; tablespoonful of Hour, bring to a boil; add one half 
|)int of cream or milk, and the liquor from the oysters; boil 
one minute. Line the bottom and sides of a baking dish 
with puif paste; lay the oysters in first, cover with the sweet 
breads, and pour over the sauce; j^lace the crust on toj) and 
bake. 

FRIED OYSTERS. 

Take large, select oysters, drain and season with salt and 
pepper. Roll first in cracker crumbs, then in beaten eggs, 
then in cracker crumbs again. Fry till brown in a kettle of 
hot lard or olive oil. Drain on paper to absorb any grease 
which might cling to them. 

OYSTER LOAF OR "PEACE-MAKER." 

This dish originated in the Crescent City. It is said when 
a man of convivial tendency stays out into the "wee sma' 
hours," he goes to a restaurant and purchases one of these 
loaves, which is warranted to pacify the most exacting and 
shrewish of wives. It is simply an ordinary loaf of bread, 
with crust all around from which a round piece has been cut 
to form a lid. All the crumb is scooped out, the hole is 
filled with hot fried oysters covered with several pickles, 
the lid is toasted and put on. The bread will keep the 
oysters warm for an hour. 



16 Exchange Cook Book, 



SCALLOPED OYSTERS. 

Put in a baking dish alternate layers of bread crumbs and 
oysters, seasoning each layer of oysters with butter, pepper 
and salt. Make a cream sauce with a tablespoonful of butter, 
a little flour and the oyster liquor, pour over the oysters in 
the dish. Cover all with a layer of crumbs, and bake in a 
hot oven until a little brown on top. 

STEAMED OYSTERS. 

Drain a can of select oysters and put them into a dish, 
with a tablespoonful of butter and salt to taste; steam them 
until they are done, but not shriveled. Serve with hot but- 
tered crackers. 



fflEAHiS. 



ROASTS. 

Roasts should be cooked at first in a hot oven, without 
either seasoning or water. As soon as the roast is brown 
on the outside, it should be salted and enough boiling water 
poured in the pan to cover the bottom and prevent btirning. 
The oven should be kept hot while meat is being roasted. 
Roasts should be frequently basted. Allow twenty minutes 
to the pound for roasting all meats and poultry: excepting 
beef, which requires only fifteen minutes. 

ROAST BEEF. 

Place the roast in a hot oven with the skin side up, when 
the heat has started enough of the oil of the fat to baste 
with, open the oven and baste it, closing the door immedi- 
ately; this should be repeated every five or six minutes until 



Exchange Cook Book. 17 

the roast begins to brown, then dredge and salt and add suffi- 
cient boiling water to cover the bottom of the pan. About 
fifteen minutes for each pound should be allowed for roasting. 

R0A8T PORK. 

Por\ should be roasted fully twenty minutes for each 
pound; baste frequently. When buying the roast have the 
butcher score it in half inch squares on top. When the roast 
commences to brown, put a cupful of boiling water in the 
pan, then season the roast with salt and pepper. 

R0A8T PIG. 

Of course this ought to be called baked pig, as nothing is 
ever roasted now a-days. Have the butcher thoroughly clean 
the pig, and cut oft* the end of the snout. Stuff it with a 
dressing of bread crumbs, plenty of butter, a large onion 
chopped, a teaspoonful of sage and a little red pepper. Rub 
the pig all over with salt and pepper and dredge thoroughly 
when you put it in the baking pan, add one pint and a half 
of water with which it is to be basted continually, at the 
same time rubbing it over with melted butter and Hour 
mixed. It will be done in about three hours. Make a rich 
gravy, and add the chopped liver and heart of the pig, which 
have already been boiled until done. 

A French receipt .suggests a force meat stuffing. I will 
translate it: "Make a stuffing with one pound of veal, four 
ounces of bacon, the liver of the pig, one clove of garlic and 
two or three little onions, all chopped. Add four ounces of 
raw ham (cut in dice), salt, powdered spices, four whole raw 
eggs (beaten), and, lastly, four ounces of bread crumbs soak- 
ed in one half pint of warm milk. Mix all together and stuff 
the pig with it, adding some fresh truffles."" 

POTTED BEEF. 

Take six pounds of the cheaper parts of beef; boil until 
the meat comes from the bone; skim all out into your chop- 



18 Exchange Cook Book. 

ping-bowl, remove the bone and gristly pieces, chop the meat 
fine, and add one and a half pints of the gravy; season with 
salt, pepper, and a half teaspoonful of powdered mace. 
Pack away in bowls; when cold it is very nice sliced for 
tea or fried in a batter. 

KOAST LAMB WITH MINT SAUCE. 

Lay the lamb in a dripping pan. Put it into a quick oven 
long enough to brown, then season it with salt and pepper, 
and finish baking it in a moderate oven, baste frequently; 
cook it in all twenty minutes for each pound. While it is 
roasting make the mint sauce. 

MINT SAUCE. 

Put two tablespoonsful of soft sugar into half a pint of 
vinegar, and stir until the sugar is dissolved; bring to a boil 
and add one tablespoonf ul of chopped mint. Serve hot in a 
gravy dish. 

ROAST MUTTON. 

Mutton is roasted like lamb. If mutton is a little rare it 
is not an objection; thicken the gravy, after all grease is 
skimmed off, w4th a tablespoonful of brow^n flour; season 
with salt and white pepper, and a tablespoonful of currant 
jelly, or use a mint sauce. 

ROAST VEAL. 

Veal is almost tasteless, so it is greatly improved by being 
stuffed with either bread or force-meat stuffing; season well 
and roast slowly; baste often with water and melted butter; 
dredge lightly w4th flour after each basting. Bake twenty 
minutes for each pound. Make a gravy by removing fat 
from drippings, and adding a teaspoonful of flour; season to 
taste. 



Exchange Cook Book. ' 19 

BOILED HAM. 

Soak the ham over niofht in cold water. The next raorninor 
trim it and scrape, and put it on the fire in a boiler full of 
cold water. After it boils allow fifteen minutes for each 
pound of ham. Let it remain in the water until it has cool- 
ed. This makes it more juicy. 

TO BAKE A HAM. 

Immediately after the ham has been boiled, remove from 
the water and strip off the skin. Put it in a bakingpan and 
make incisions with a sharp knife to the bone. Rub it over with 
br jm^i sugar, and pour over all a wineglass of almost any sort 
of wine; in New Orleans champagne is often used, and even 
cider may be substituted. Baste frequently with the liquor 
in the pan; baking for about an hour. Remove from the 
oven and glaze with yolk of egg. Sprinkle over bread 
crumbs, if you like it better so, and return to the oven until 
it browns. 

BROILING. 

Since roasting has gone out of date, broiling is the most 
perfect way of cooking meats. Of course it is only applica- 
ble to steaks, chops, fish, birds and other young fowls. The 
fire for broiling must be a clear, hot fire of red coals. This 
is easier to make with wood, but it can be accomplished with 
coal as well. Broiling can be done with gas, too. If the 
article to be broiled is rather thin and to be cooked rather 
rare, put close to the coals and turn frequently. If it is 
thicker, such as a chicken or fish, which requires thorough 
cooking, put farther away from the coals. If broiling on 
an ordinary cooking stove, for the thicker articles, remove 
the two covers and cross-pieces and ))ut the broiler on top of 
the stove, turning frequently. The delicate savor of meats 
and fowb is so well preserved in broiling that as a rule no 
seasoning is required, save butter and salt, which should be 



20 ExcHAXGE Cook Book. 

applied as soon as the article is taken from, the fire. The dis- 
advantages of broiling are that only good cuts of meats can 
be broiled acceptably, and the fact that broiled meat cannot 
be made over into any very palatable dish. 

BROILED STEAK. 

One of the best cuts, either porterhouse, tenderloin or 
sirloin, must be selected. Have the steak cut not less than 
an inch thick; broil over a quick fire. It must be a rich 
brown on the outside, and pink, not transparent purple, 
within. Spread it on both sides with a little butter, and 
sprinkle it with salt. Garnish the platter with parsley. 

Mushrooms creamed, and either poured over the steak, or 
served in a small turreen, make a very delightful addition. 

Occasionally rub one teaspoonful of chopped parsley into a 
heaping teaspoonful of butter, and spread this on the steak. 

BROILED MUTTON CHOPS. 

Have the chops trimmed and broil brown until thoroughly 
done; serve with slices of lemon. 

VEAL CUTLETS. 

The cutlets must not be cut too thick, or they will not get 
done in the center. If they are very thick it is safer to steam 
them a little. Rub with salt and pepper. Dip in sifted 
cracker or bread crumbs, then in ef^g, then in bread crumbs 
again. Remember to season the egg. Fry in a little lard in 
a skillet, turning it so that it is brown on both sides. Serve 
with a cream gravy made as follows: Pour off most of 
the grease in the skillet; add one tablespoonful of flour, stir- 
ring carefully to prevent lum|)ing. The Hour may first be 
mixed with a little milk. Then add one half pint of cream 
or milk, and boil for just a minute until the flour is cooked. 



Exchange Cook Book 21 



CHIPPED BEEF-STEWED. 

Make a gravy of equal parts of milk and water, using a 
beaten egg and a little flour as thickening; chip or slice the 
beef as thin as possible and put in a pan as soon as the gravy 
comes to a boil; do not let the meat remain long as it will be 
better for not being over-much cooked. If the beef is not 
very salt it will season just right; otherwise it should be 
freshened a little before being put in the pan. 

PLAIN BROILED HAM. 

Cut the ham into thin slices and broil it very quickly over 
a hot fire, then put on butter and a little pepper. Serving a 
poached egg on each slice of ham makes a very pretty dish. 

BEEF, A LA MODE. 

Take a piece of the rump and into deep incisions made 
therein put little thin squares of pork that have been rolled 
in a seasoning of pepper, salt and spices, such as cloves and 
nutmeg; then in a stewpan containing sliced onions, carrots, 
lemon, a bay-leaf and pieces of pork, lay the meat; over all 
pour a half a pint of wine, adding a little vinegar, and enough 
water to about half cover the meat. Cook until the meat 
becomes tender, being careful to keep the dish tightly cover- 
ed; turn the meat often. 

FILLET OF BEEF LARDED. 

This is the tenderloin, although the sirloin is sometimes 
used. Trim off fat, tough skin, etc., and skewer into shape 
(round). Lard with salt pork. Dredge well with salt, pepper 
and flour, and put without water into a very small pan. Place 
in a hot oven thirty minutes; in lower part ten, and then on 
upper grate. Serve with mushroom sauce or with potato balls. 
The shape of the fillet is such that the time required for 
cooking is the same whether it weigh two or six pounds. 



Exchange Cook Book. 



VEAL LOAF. 

Three pounds veal (chopped), one-half pound salt pork, 
three eggs, teaspoonful of black pepper, one teaspoonful of 
salt, piece of butter size of an egg:, five Boston crackers roll- 
ed tine; stir with the eggs, add the butter (melted). Bake 
three hours. Baste with cup of water and tablespoonful of 
butter. 

C^ORNEI) BEEF. 

Should be cooked in plenty of cold water brought slow^ly 
to a boil; if very salt the meat should be soaked over night; 
but if young and not too strongly brined this will not be nec- 
essary. It should be cooked sufficiently long to make tender, 
so that in a brisket or j)late piece the bones may be readily 
removed. Preserve the liquor in the pot, and if any of the 
meat remains after the lirst meal, return it and let it stand 
over night in the liquor so that it inay absorl) it. 

STUFFED BEEFSTEAK. 

Take a good-sized tender steak, trim nicely and spi-ead 
with a bread stuffing like turkey dressing; then roll it up and 
fasten with skew^ers; salt and pepper, and bake in a dripping- 
]>an with a little water. 

SANDERS. 

Mince cold mutton with seasoning and enough gravy to 
moisten. Put into pattypans, cov«r with mashed potato, and 
brown. 

BOILED TONGUE WITH TOMATO SAUCE. 

Half boil a tongue, then stew it with a sauce made of a 
little broth, flour, parsley, one small onion, one small carrot, 
salt and pepper, and one can of tomatoes cooked and strain- 
ed. Lay the tongue on a dish and strain the sauce over it. 



Exchange Cook Book. 23 



I^ouiiJTii^Y AND Game. 



TO BAKE A TURKEY. 

Wash the bird and rub it all over with salt and pepper. 
Make a stuffing of bread crumbs or of oysters, according to 
the directions given below. Fill the bird, not stuffing it too 
tightly, and remember to stuff the craw^ well, sewing or tying 
up the opening. Dredge with flour. Pour into the pan two 
pints of water, or if stuffed with oysters, their liquor and 
water enough to make two pints. Baste very frequently. 
Twenty minutes to a pound is about the right length of time 
to bake it, but something depends on the oven, as some ovens 
bake much quicker than others. When ihe turkey is done, 
and is a rich brown, remove it from the pan. Pour off some 
of the fat from the gravy in the pan, and thicken with a 
little browned flour. Mince the giblets and add to the gravy, 
or if desired with oysters; mince half a dozen of them and 
add them to the gravy. 

STUFFING FOR FOWLS. 

For a medium-sized turkey take one pound of stale bread, 
without crust, dip it quickly in tepid water and squeeze dry. 
Then shake it up lightly with your fingers to prevent it being 
packed, add half a cup of melted butter, teaspoonful of grated 
onion, a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, and if you like sage 
or any other herb (a teaspoonful of that); mix together, and 
be sure not to fill the foM'l too tight as the stuffing swells 
in cooking. 

Oyster filling or stuffing is made with the above bread 
stuffing for a basis, then add three dozen oysters, whole or 
chopped, as preferred. When usiug oyster stuffing always 
save a dozen or more oysters to add to the gravy. 



24 Exchange Cook Book. 

Many persons in making stuffing prefer to bind the dry 
bread criinibs together with melted butter, using only one or 
two tablespoonsful oi' cold water. 

FORCE-MEAT STUFFING. 

A good force-meat for poultry or game, is to use the bread 
dressing already giyen, and add one pound of either sausage 
meat, minced chicken, yeal, turkey or game. 

CHICKEN BONELESS. 

Fricassee your chicken, take care to brown tlie skin nicely, 
season to taste. AVhen done set by to cool, then remove all 
the bones, chop it up tine with all the oil of the fowl, if not 
enough add a little butter: then pack it closely in a dish, 
turn out when you wish it to go to the table. 

FRICASSEED CHICKEN. 

Stuff two chickens as if to boil, put in a pot, don't quite 
cover with w^ater, put them on two hours before dinner; chop 
an onion, some parsley and a little mace, rub a piece of 
butter twice as large as an egg with flour, and stir all in. 
Before dishing, beat the yolks of six eggs, and stir in care- 
fidly; cook live minutes. 

STEAMED CHICKEN WITH OYSTERS. 

Season and steam a chicken until very tender; take it out 
on a hot dish, and keep warm, then put into the liquor in 
which it was stewed a lump of butter the size of an egg, mix 
a tablespoonful of flour and water smooth, and make a thick 
gravy; season well with pepper and salt and let it come to a 
boil. Have ready a quart of oysters picked over, and put 
them in with the liquor, stir; and as soon as they are cooked, 
pour all over the chicken. This receipt can be used with 
chicken or turkey, left over, already cooked. 



Exchange Cook Book. 25 

PRESSED CHICKEN. 

Boil two chickens until dropping to pieces, pick meat off 
bones, taking out all skin, cliop fine. Put back into kettle 
with a little of the liquor in which it is boiled, season well 
with butter, pepper and salt. Put in dish and press with 
plate and weight; to be sliced when cold. Any boiled meat 
or game is nice this way. 

CHICKEN AND OYSTER PIE. 

Stew chicken tender and pick from bones; season with 
pepper and salt and one-fourth pound of butter. Line a dish 
with rich crust, pour in the chicken while hot, sprinkle a 
little flour over it, cover with crust, cutting a hole in the 
center. Take the liquor from a can of oysters, thicken with 
a little flour, season with salt, pepper and butter. When it 
comes to a boil pour over the oysters, and about flfteen min- 
utes before the pie is done, lift the top crust and ()ut them 
in. You will find this a great improvement to the pie. 

BROILED QUAILS. 

Clean, wash and split down the back, season with salt and 
pepper, and broil on a gridiron over a bright fire. When 
done, lay in a hot dish, butter on both sides well, and serve 
at once on toast. 

CHESNUT STUFFING. 

Chesnuts are boiled until soft in salted water, shell and 
skin them, add to a small portion of the bread stuffing. 

Potato stuffing is made by addino- mashed potatoes to the 
bread dressing; one half or more being mashed potatoes. 

PEANUT STUFFING. 

Add a pint of shelled and skinned peanuts to the stuffing 
for a turkey. Said to be very nice. 



26 Exchange Cook Book. 



ASPIC JELLY. 

Can be made from the broth in which chickens have been 
boiled. After removing the bones from the fowls, return 
them to the soup kettle and simmer for an hour; add one 
quart of jellied stock, prepared as directed in article on stock 
for soup. A short time before removing from the fire, add 
salt, pepper, celery seed (one-half teaspoonful), one allspice 
berry, one clove, and a small bunch of sweet herbs. Strain 
the liquid and add the juice of one lemon to each quart of 
stock. If the liquid is not clear add the white of an egg 
before adding the lemon juice; strain into shallow pans, not 
more than one-half inch deep, and stand it in a cold place for 
twenty-four hours. Cut in small cubes and arrange on a low, 
glass dish. If part of the liquid is colored with some fruit- 
coloring or caramel, and the cubes arranged together, it adds 
very much to the effect. In warm weather use gelatine, and 
it is safe to do so at any time, one box of gelatine dissolved 
in one cupful of cold water to every four pints of stock. 

SCALLOPED TURKEY, CmCKEN OR VEAL. 

One quart of choj^ped meat of either, melt one cup ol" 
butter, add one heaping tablespoonful of flour, cook until it 
boils, add one pint of cream, gradually stirring all the time; 
salt and red pepper to taste; add the meat, boil One cup of 
chopped, mushrooms is an improvement. Fill shells with it, 
sprinkle crumbs over the top., and brown in the oven. 

CHICKEN TERRAPIN. 

Boil a chicken, remove the skin, cut in small pieces. Take 
a pint of cream, put in a stewpan, add one-fourth cup of 
butter, four tablespoonsful of flour, season with pepper and 
salt, stir until it thickens; add chicken. Remove from fire, 
and add a glass of sherry wine and three eggs boiled hard 
and chopped fine. Put on the tire again and heat in the 



Exchax<;e Cook Book. 



shells in which it is served. One pair sweetbreads added are 
very nice, and this quantity will serve twelve persons. — Mrs, 
C. C. Bnnmi. 

PARTED CHICKEN. 

Cut up and wash the chicken, wipe dry, roll in tiour, 
sprinkle with salt and pepper, and fry in boiling lard. Take 
up, lay in a hot dish near the fire. Pour into the gravy a 
teacup of milk, stir and add a tablespoonful of flour; season 
with minced parsley, salt and pepper. Let boil up once, and 
pour in a gravy dish. Garnish the chicken with curled 
parlsey. 

CURRY OF SPRING CHICKEN. 

Cut up a young chicken; put two ounces of butter in a 
fryingpan, cut a small onion in slices, and add it with the 
chicken to the butter, and fry brown; take up the chicken, 
put it in a saucepan with a little water, season with salt and 
let simmer gently for fifteen minutes, then add a teaspoonful 
of sugar, and the iuice of a small lemon. Mix a tablespoon- 
ful of curry powder and one of flour with a little cold water, 
and add to the chicken. Stir until it boils. Serve with 
boiled rice. 

TO BROIL SPRING CHICKEN. 

Split a half-grown spring chicken down the back, wipe 
dry; spread out, and break the breast-bone. Put the chicken 
on a grid iron over a clear tire. Turn often to prevent scorch- 
ing. When half done sprinkle with salt and pepper. When 
thoroughly done put on a hot dish with melted butter. 

SMOTHERED CHICKENS. 

Cut the chickens open down the back, lay them flat in a 
drippingpan with one cup of water; let them stew in the 
oven until they begin to get tender, take them out and season 
with salt and pepper. Rub together one tablespoonful of 



28 Exchan<;e Cook Book, 

flour, one tablespoonful of butter, spread all over the chicken. 
Put back in the oven, baste well, and when tender and nicely 
brown, take out of the drippingpan; mix with the gravy in 
the pan one cup of milk, put on the stove, and let it scald up 
well, and pour over the chickens; parsley chopped fine is a 
nice addition to the gravy. 

TO ROAST DUCKS AND GEESE. 

Ducks and geese having a rich, strong flavor, should be 
stuffed with a dressing seasoned with one grated onion and a 
little sage and parsley. Rub them inside and out with salt 
and pepper and flour; stuff them, place on their breasts in a 
roastingpan, containing enough water to cover the bottom, 
baste often; as soon as brown on the backs turn over and 
flnish roasting with the breasts up. Twenty minutes to the 
pound is usually long enough to roast them. Serve with 
brown gravy, in which the giblets have been put after being 
chopped. 

CHICKEN STEAMED WITH OYSTERS. 

Select a fat, tender chicken; draw and clean, and rub in- 
side and out with salt and white pepper. Stuff with bread 
crumbs and oysters (according to receipt already given), 
saving the oyster liquor. Put in a small pan and then in a 
steamer. The small pan is necessary to save the juice. Steam, 
allowing twenty minutes to a pound. When it is done, drain 
off the juice, and add it to the oyster liquor. Now make a 
sauce by putting a tablespoonful of butter and the same of 
flour in a saucepan, stew until it bubbles, then thin by pour- 
ing in the mixed oyster and chicken juice; add six oysters 
and a few capers, and let it boil up once. 

ROAST VENISON. 

Wash quickly, rub with salt and pepper; place in a baking- 
pan with one cup of water and two tablespoonsful of buttei-. 
Bake in a very hot oven; allow twenty minutes for each 



Exchange Cook Book. 29 

pound. Just before it is taken from the oven pour in a wine 
glass of sherry or Madeira wine, and two tablespoonsful of 
currant jelly, remove from the pan to a hot dish, add one 
tablespoonful of cracker crumbs to the gravy; serve at once. 

BROILED VENISON STEAK. 

Put the steak on a wire broiler over a clear fire of coals, 
turning every few minutes to insure its being well cooked. 
When done add butter and salt, and serve on a hot platter 
with currant jelly. 

FRIED RABBITS OR SQUIRRELS. 

Either rabbits or squirrels are very nice fried exactly like 
fried chicken, and served with the same sort of cream gravy. 

ROAST WILD FOWL. 

Wild fowl may be stuffed M'ith any kind of stuffing, but 
the flavor is best preserved without stuffing; only rubbing it 
inside and out with butter, pepper and salt; baste with butter. 
Make a rich, brown gravy by adding a teaspoonf ul of flour to 
the drippings; color with caramel. 

TO ROAST QUAILS, PRAIRIE CHICKENS, 
OR ANY OTHER WILD BIRDS. 

Wash quickly; pick out any shot you can easily reach. 
Stuff them with bread stuffing; season with salt and pepper. 
Put enough water in the pan to cover the bottom; bake in a 
hot oven; basting frequently with butter and water. Cook 
about half an hour. Make a brown gravy already described. 

PRAIRIE CHICKENS. 

Are Vjest split down the back and broiled; season with salt 
and pepper; cover with small lumps of butter. Serve each 
bird on a square of toast, i)ut all on a hot platter. Place in 
the oven for a few minutes to melt the butter. Serve with 
currant jelly. 



30 Exchange Cook Book. 



Sauces, 

For Meat and Fish. 



DRAWN BUTTER. 

Put one heaping tablespoonful of butter, and one even 
tablespoonful of flour in a saucepan, stir together and let it 
come to a boil. Thin with one half pint of hot water or 
stock. 

MAITRE D^ HOTEL SAUCE. 

One tablespoonful of butter (melted), the juice of one 
lemon, one heaping teaspoonful of chopped parsley. Stir all 
together and pour over the meat or tish. 

WHITE CREAM SAUCE. 

Tablespoonful of butter, the same of flour, stir over the 
fire until they boil. Thin with one-half pint of milk. Season 
with salt and cayenne; stir until smooth, but just let boil 
once. 

TOMATO SAUCE. 

Boil six tomatoes until soft, rub through a sieve. In a 
saucepan boil together one tablespoonful each of butter and 
flour; thin with the strained tomatoes. Let it boil up once, 
and season with red pepper and salt 

EGG SAUCE. 

Boil three eggs hard, chop them very tine, stir them into 
half a pint of drawn butter. For boiled poultry or flsh. 

CAPER SAUCE. 

Mix one pint drawn butter witii water, stir in two table- 
spoonsful of capers and one teaspoonful of vinegar or lemon 
juice. 



Exchange Cook Book. 31 

CELERY SAUCE. 

Make a drawn butter of the broth from the meat or fowls, 
and cooked celery. Serve with boiled meats or fowls. 

ONION SAUCE. 

Peel six or seven good-sized onions, and boil tender, drain 
and chop fine. Heat one pint of milk in a saucepan, add one 
tablespoonful of flour, and two of butter, stir in the onions, 
season with salt and pepper; boil a few minutes, and serve 
with roast pork. 

MINT SAUCE. 

Three tablespoonsful of fresh mint chopped fine, five table- 
spoonsful of vinegar, two teaspoonsful of sugar dissolved in 
the vinegar. Serve hot with roast lamb. 

ANCHOVY SAUCE. 

To half a pint of drawn butter, add three tablespoonsful of 
essence of anchovy, a teaspoonful of lemon extract; salt and 
pepper; boil up once, and serve with baked or boiled fish. 

WINE SAUCE FOR COLD MEATS. 

One quart of wine, one and a half pints of jelly, three- 
fourths of a pound of butter, three tablespoonsful of sugar, 
one and a half tablespoonsful of allspice. Cook all together 
until it thickens. 

VINEGAR AND EGG SAUCE. 

Boil one pint of vinegar, beat the yelks of four eggs, stir 
them in the boiling vinegar, add mustard and pepper to taste. 



32 Exchange Cook Book. 



©r^OQUBTTES, Gnti^ies, 



AND Made-Over Dishes. 



CROQUETTES. 

A well-made croquette should be golden brown and crisp 
on the outside, and creamy white and soft within. This re- 
sult may be accomplished, whether the croquette is made 
from meat or fowl, especially cooked for them, or whether 
made from left-overs, if they are made according to the fol- 
lowing directions: 

Make a Avhite cream sauce by putting a tablespoonful of 
butter and a heaping one of ilour in a graniteware saucepan. 
When it boils thin with one-half pint of stock or milk, stir- 
ring constantly. This sauce is not only the foundation of all 
croquettes, but also of all creamed dishes, so be sure to un- 
derstand, when white sauce or cream sauce is mentioned this 
is what is meant. Now add one i)int of finely chopped meat 
or fowl of any kind, to which has been added some minced 
parsley and one small onion grated. Season all with salt and 
cayenne pepper. Turn out on a platter, and let it get entirely 
cold, when it will be quite stiff. 

Prepare about a half pint of rolled and sifted cracker or 
bread crumbs. Beat up two eggs with salt and pepper in a 
piepan. Sift some of the cracker crumbs on a bread board. 
Take out a spoonful of croquette meat, and form into a cyl- 
inder by rolling in the crumbs, smoothing it with knife. 
Then dip into the beaten egg, and roll in the crumbs again. 
If the materials are cold it will not be difficult to make well 
shaped croquettes. If it is time to serve them, put in a wire 
basket, and cook in hct lard. Be sure the lard is hot enough. 
Test it by dropping in a bit of l)read, if it browns in a minute 



Exchange Cook Book. 33 

the lard is just right Be careful about this, for if the lard is 
not hot enough your croquettes will be ruined.; Cook to a 
deli'iate brown, then lift out the wire i)asket, gently remove 
the croquettes, and drain on brown i)aper for a minute or 

CHICKEN CROQUETTES. 

Make exactly according to the foregoing recipe. Steam 
or boil the chicken, carefully saving the juice to use in 
making the cream sauce. A cupful of cho])ped mushrooms 
is a very pleasant addition. 

SWEET J^EAD AND MUSHROOMS CRO- 
QUETTES. 

One pair of tine sweet breads boiled in salted water for 
twenty minutes. Plunge in cold water to plump them. Pick 
to pieces, removing skin and gristle. Cut in very small 
pieces, and add one can of mushrooms, chopped After this 
follow the above directions, increasing the quantity of sauce 
in the same proportions, that is, one-half pint of sauce to 
one pint of sweet breads and mushrooms. 

CHICKEN, MUSHROOMS AND SWEET- 
BREADS CROQUETTES. 

To two pints of cooked chicken or turkey, add one pair 
of sweet breads boiled and picked free from skins, and one 
can of mushrooms drained; chop all together. Take a cup of 
l)utter, four tablespoonsful of tiour, and four cups of stock or 
water, two teaspoon sful of salt, and an even one of white 
pepper. Cook the butter in a three-quart pan, add the flour, 
then the stock, let it boil a minute after it is thoroughly 
mixed, then add the chopped meat, etc. ; spread on platters, 
and when cold make into croquettes and fry as already de- 
scril)ed. 

VEAL CROQUETTES. 

Steam or boil the veal and chop very tine, adding one cup 
of chopped mushrooms; then proceed as above. 



34 ExciTAxr.K Cook Book. 

FISH CROQUETTES. 

Any sort of cooked fish picked to pieces, make very nice 
croquettes. Canned lobster and salmon are particularly 
good. 

OYSTER CROQUETTES. 

Cook the oysters, until they are ruffled, in their own liquor. 
Chop the oysters, and save their liquor. If you have one 
pint of chopped oysters, make a sauce with half a pint of 
oyster.. liquor according to the directions furnished. Tf you 
have not that much, add milk to make it that quantity. 

CROQUETTES FROM LEFT-OVERS. 

Any sort of meat, fowl or fish will make good croquettes, 
and if you inspect your pantry at any time you will probably 
find materials enough to make ten or a dozen. Perhaps you 
will find one veal cutlet and a little bit of cold roast beef. 
Chop them very fine, and make your sauce just as carefully 
as if you were using the very freshest materials, and your 
croquettes will probably be just as satisfactory. Just here 
let me say that if you have not a pint of meat, make the 
same amount of sauce at any rate, it will make you a few 
more croquettes, and they will be almost as good. Perhaps 
you can only find a very little meat, but have some mashed 
potatoes or a cupful of boiled rice; don't hesitate to use these. 
Fish and potatoes make very fine croquettes, and your cod- 
fish balls will be better if you make them according to this 
receipt. 

RISSOLES. 

Chop up chicken or meat very finely, and season with 
onion and chopped parsley. Stir it into a cream sauce. Have 
small pieces of good pastry. Roll out very thin, wet the 
edges, put a spoonful of the meat on the pastry, fold over 
and pinch the edges together, marking it with a foi-k. Brush 
over Avith the yolk of an egg, then either fry in hot lard or 



Exchange Cook Book. 35 

bake in quick oven. Serve on a h(^t })latter garnished with 
parsley. 

SWEET BREADS FRIED. 

Boil them for twenty minutes in salted water. Blanch by 
plunging them in cold water. Remove all membianes and 
strings, and separate into three or four jjieces. Roll in 
cracker crumbs, then in egg, then in cracker crumbs again. 
Fry a golden brown in hot lard. 

SWEET BREADS CREAMED. 

After cooking and blanching them as a})ove, pick to i)ieces. 
Make a cream sauce of one taldespoonful of butter, same of 
flour, one-half pint of milk, seasoned with })arsley, cayenne 
pepper and salt. Serve on slices of butter toast, or make 
croustades by cutting out of stale l)read, cups or boxes. Use 
a very sharp knife, and you will not find it very ditticult to 
do, either fry them in butter or brown crisp in the oven. 
Pour the sweet breads into these and serve very liot. 

JELLIED SWEET BREADS. 

Parboil a pair of tine fresh sweet breads. Put them be- 
tween two plates to cool. .When cold cut them in slices. 
Have some aspic jelly melted, dip each slice in it. Cut some 
aspic jelly in small squares, form in a circle in a dish, arrange 
the slices of sweet breads on this, till the center with chopped 
celery; pour mayonnaise round and garnish with aspic jelly. 

MINCED CHICKEN ON TOAST. 

Chop any remains of cold chicken with one or two hard 
boiled eggs. Stir into a white sauce, and serve on squares 
of buttered toast. 

CHICKEN TIMBALES. 

Chop and then pound to a paste one pint of lean veal, raw. 
Put one pint of cream in a rice boiler on the tire, let it boil 
soft, then add one cup of stale bread crumbs, rub smooth, add 



36 ExcHAXGE Cook Book. 

half a cup of butter, one teaspoonful of salt, and a little 
white pepper, then put in the pounded veal and the whites 
of four eggs Avell beaten; put this away to cool. Next take 
one pint of cooked chicken cut in dice, make a sauce of one 
tablespoonful of butter and one tablespoonful of flour cooked 
together, adding one cup of milk; put the chicken in this and 
pour on a platter. Now butter either a three pint mould or 
else twelve baking cups, put the veal mixture on the l)ottom 
and sides of the molds, about half an inch thick. Fill with 
the chicken, then cover with the veal, being careful that no 
cracks are left for the chicken-cream to cook out; cover 
molds and put them either in. a steamer or bake in an oven 
for half or three-quarters of an hour. Turn out of molds 
and serve hot. It is very pretty to line the molds with boiled 
macaroni, first making some butter soft and putting it inside 
the mold quarter of an inch thick, then take long strips of 
boiled macaroni and commencing in the middle of the bottom 
cover the bottom and sides, putting it in spirally. Another 
way is to cut the macaroni in inch lengths, and stick them in 
the butter, end upwards, very close together. 

FRIED COLLOPS. 

Chop veal very fine; season to taste 'Avith salt and pepper. 
Beat well three eggs, add to the meat; drop a spoonful at a 
time in very hot lard, when brown take out and drain on 
paper. -Then put on a hot dish and serve with tomato sauce; 
made by cooking six tomatoes wnth pepper, salt and one 
clove, when stewed half an hour strain through a seive. Put 
a teaspoonful of butter on the fire, add a teaspoonful of flour, 
cook one minute, add strained tomatoes, boil up and serve. 

HASH. 

Chop one cup of cooked meat of any kind of which yuu 
wish to make your hash; two cuj^s of cold, boiled potatoes 
chopped. Put one cup of boiling stock or water into a sauce- 



Exchange Ccok Book. '61 

pan, add one tablespoonf ul of butter, as soon as they boil put 
in the meat and potatoes; season with pepper and salt, also 
with a teaspoonful of grated onion, if you like the flavor; 
cook until it will be thick enough to stay on the toast on 
which it is to be served. 

GAME OR POULTEY IN ASPIC JELLY. 

Chop game or poultry of any kind very fine; after it has 
been freed from bones, skin and gristle. A little chopped 
smoked tongue is an improvement. Season to taste with salt 
and white pepper, add enough melted aspic jelly to cover. 
Put in individual molds to jelly. The exact proportions can 
not be given in this and other of the dishes made from mate- 
rial that is left-over, for that depends upon the material on 
hand. 

PICNIC TONGUE. 

Boil a fresh, beef tongue in salt water until tender, skin 
and chop fine. Skim the liquor in Avhich it was boiled; strain 
enough of it on the chopped tongue to cover it. Soak two 
tablespoonsful of gelatine in enough water to cover it for 
twenty minutes; add one cup of vinegar to this, also one tea- 
spoonful of ground spices, pepper, allspices, and cloves 
mixed; put this with the chopped tongue and stock, and boil 
all together for ten minutes, if not salt enough add more to 
taste. Pour into a mold and when cold slice. This is also 
very dainty when molded in individual molds. 

Another way to serve fresh tongue is to boil as above, coil 
it as much as possible, put it in a bowl in this shape, choosing 
one to nearly fit the coiled tongue. Cover with aspic jelly. 
Turn from the bowl to a platter when the jelly has hardened. 
Garnish with lemon and parsley. 

VEAL POCKETBOOKS. 

Cut lean veal into strips five or six inches long avd half as 
wide. Over each slice of veal spread a dressing of bread 



38 .ExoHAiNUE Cook Book. 

crumbs, minced salt pork, parsley, salt and pepper, moisten- 
ed so that it will stick together. Then over this lay an oyster 
(M- two. Roll up and tie or skewer. Bake in a dripping-pan 
in which has been placed some boiling water and a table- 
spoonful of butter. Bake for about an hour, basting very 
frequently. Serve with brown gravy. 

SANDWICHES. 

For all sandwiches, bread that is twenty-four hours old 
should be used, trim the crust off before slicing. Butter the 
bread on the loaf, slice very thin, and then spread with the 
tilling, cover with a buttered slice, then trim evenly. Dainti- 
ness is the tirst requisite of a sandwich. Wrap in a dani]t 
napkin until ready to use. 

EGG SANDWICHES. 

On slices of buttered l)read grate hard boiled e^yg with a 
coarse grater, sprinkk' with salt and a little pe])per, then lay 
two slices together. 

TONGUE SANDWICHES. 

Use grated tongue, season very sparingly with mustard. 

HAM SANDWICHES. 

Use grated or finely chopped ham, adding a little ]>ickle 
and mustard. 

CHICKEN SANDWICHES. 

Cut up the cooked meat of chicken or any other fowl, re- 
jecting all skin, gristle and bone; season with pepper and 
celery salt, and spread between the buttered bread. 

CHEESE SANDWICHES. 

Grate one hard boiled egg, add one tablespoonful of melted 
butter; grate into this a quarter of a pound of good cheese; 
to this add half a teaspoonf ul of pepper, half a teaspoonful 



ExCHANGte Cook Book; 39 

made mustard, and one tablespoonful of milk or cream. Mix 
all well and spread on buttered bread. 

PINARD SANDWICHES. 

Take linger rolls cut in two, and take out the crumb; till 
the cavity with finely chopped and seasoned chicken. 

PATE BE FOIE GRAS SANDWICHES. 

Spread canned pate de foie gras on buttered bread, a little 
aspic jelly mixed with it is an improvement. ' 

POTATOES AND CREAMED FISH. 

When portions of iish are left over it should be flaked from 
the bones and the skin removed before the fish becomes cold. 
When needed add to the fish enough heated milk in which 
butter has been melted to moisten it, together with the beaten 
yolk of one egg. Heap the flsh in the center of a platter, 
make an outside wall of seasoned mashed potato. Brush over 
with the beaten white of egg slightly salted, and set in the 
oven to brown. Any meat or fowl left over may be prepared 
the same way. 

GARNISHING. 

« 

Dishes may be garnished with slices of lemon, olives, 
capers, pickles of all kinds, hard boiled eggs, water-cress, 
parsley, beets, lettuce, endire and aspic jelly. 



Salads. 



Nothing is more indispensable to a well-served dinner or 
luncheon than a good salad, and nothing is simpler to make, 
yet in all the range of delicacies there is no greater rarity 



40 Exchange Cook Book. 



than a perfect salad. Tt is almost impossil)le to find one at a 
hotel oi- restaurant, and in many private families there seems 
to be the same sort of ignorance as to what a salad should 
be. The simpler salads, such as lettuce, water-cress and the 
like, which are ordinarily served with a French dressing, 
made simply of oil and vinegar, in the proportion of one 
tablespoonful of vinegar to two of oil, with the addition of 
a little salt and ]»epi»er, are, ]>erha]>s, not so likel}^ to be badly 
prepared, byt the heavier ones made of fowl or fish are very 
likely to be spoiled by the addition of some unnecessary in- 
gredient, or by the omission of something needful. 

One of the things which sometimes spoil salad is sugar It 
is entirely out of place, yet I am sure I have tried to eat 
shrim]) salad that was unmistakably sAveet. Another mistake 
that is often made is the vain attempt to make cabbage and 
celery-salt do duty for celery, when it is impossil)le to })ro- 
cure that very palatable vegetable. Lettuce will do very well 
in such cases, and is infinitely pi-efcrable to the cabbage. 
Finally, I have often seen chicken salad chopped so fine that 
it would have been impossible to tell whether it was made of 
chicken, pork or veal, if the maker, who usually has a rcjui- 
tation for veracity, had not announced that it was chicken. 

The first necessity for a good salad is a good mayonnaise 
dressing, which is made as follows: Into a bowl put the 
yolks of two eggs. After beating them, add one-half tea- 
spoonful of salt and one-fourth teaspoonful of mustard. Still 
beating, drop in two or three drops of vinegar and then a few 
drops of oil. It will be found convenient in dropping the oil 
to cut a little triangular groove lengthwise of the cork, and 
then to replace it in the bottle, so that only a few drops can 
escape at a time, beating continually until the sauce becomes 
jellied. Two yolks of eggs ordinarily will take up about 
one-third of a pint of oil, but the amount varies according to 
the temperature of the ingredients. It will expedite matters 



Exchange Cook Book. 41 

to put all tlu' ingredients on ice in warm weather. When 
the sauce has attained the jellied state, finish it h\ adding 
the juice of one lemon and a dash of cayenne pepper, which 
will make the mayonnaise of the consistency of thick cream. 
These proportions can be varied somewhat to suit all tastes, 
and only experience will show when it ydeases you the best. 
Some people like a much larger proportion of oil. If these 
directions are carefully followed there will be little danger 
of the dressing curdling, but should it do so a fresh bowl 
must be taken, two more yolks of eggs beaten, and the curdled 
sauce gradually added. If you use a Dover egg beater instead 
of a spoon to beat it with there is almost no possibility of 
curdling, and the oil may be added in larger cpiantities This 
sauce will keep a long time on ice. 

Some prefer a cooked dressing for salad, and though it is 
not quite so good as the other, in my opinion, the following- 
recipe is entirely trustworthy, and the sauce will keep an in- 
definite length of time. One teaspoonful of salt, one table- 
spoonful of dry mustard, eight tablespoonsful of olive oil or 
melted butter, yolks of eight eggs, one pint of vinegar, or 
vinegar and lemon juice mixed, one tablespoonful of sugar, 
small quantity of cayenne pepper. Mix the salt, mustard and 
pepper with the yolks until a smooth paste is made. A.dd 
the oil or butter a few drops at a time, then the vinegar or 
lemon juice. Steam until it thickens like custards. In serving- 
salads at receptions or other large entertainments one gallon 
is enough for forty guests. — M. /S". m Chicago Herald. 

GREEN PEPPER AND TOMATO SALAD. 

A very pretty way to serve a tomato salad is to take large, 
green, bell peppers, halve them and take out seeds. Peel 
carefully some smooth, red tomatoes, place one in each half 
pepper. Serve one on each salad plate with a ball of thick 
mayonnaise dressing beside it. 



Exchange Cook Book. 



SWEET BREADS IN SALAD. 

Take four or six fresh sweet breads, parboil them in salted 
water and nicely trim them, put them on ice to become very 
cold, cut them in dice squares with a pair of scissors. To 
the cut sweet breads add about a quart of cut celery and a 
teacup of well-cooked French peas. Then put over this a 
carefully made mayonnaise dressing, and you will have a 
delicious salad. Never allow yourself to be betrayed into 
the mistake of putting sugar into chicken, meat or fish salad. 
— Mrs. Charles Rklgely. 

CHICKEN SALAD. 

Either steam or boil a chicken. Let it cool in its own 
liquor, when cold remove the meat from the bones, and cut 
it into dice; do not chop it. Also, cut some celery into small 
})ieces until you have just as much celery as chicken. This 
is one of the places where a pair of scissors for the kitchen is 
very useful. When it is time to serve the salad, add mayon- 
naise dressing, mixing all very thoroughly. Reserve some of 
the dressing. Serve on lettuce leaves, adding a spoonful of 
thick mayonnaise to the salad on each lettuce leaf. 

SHRIMP SALAD. 

This is made exactly like chicken. The shrimps must be 
washed and broken in pieces. 

LOBSTER SALAD. 

Cut the lobster, either canned or fresh, into dice, mix with 
mayonnaise dressing and serve on lettuce. 

THE QUEEN OF SALADS. 

Boil a fine pair of sweet breads in salted Water for twenty 
minutes. Blanch and plump them by plunging them in cold 
water. Cut into dice, removing all skins and sinews. Open 
one can of mushrooms, pour off all the juice; cut each mush- 
room into two or four pieces, mix with the sweet breads, add 



ExcHAisGE Cook Book. 43 



mayonnaise <lressing in the proportion of lialf a pint of dress- 
ing to a pint of sweet l)rea(l and mushrooms, reservitig a little 
of the dressing to mask the to]) of the salad. Now select as 
many smooth, ripe tomatoes, as you have ])eo}).le to serve. 
Dip each in boiling water for a minute to remove the skins. 
Skin, and with a sharp knife remove all the center of the 
tomato. In this cavity put a large spoonful of the salad. 
Serve each tomato on a fresh, curly lettuce leaf, or leaf of 
endive. The very last thing before sending to the table is to 
drop a s[)Oonful of thick mayonnaise on the top of each one. 
This salad is as satisf3dng to the eye as it is to the palate. 

RUSSIAN SALAD. 

Mix cold, string beans (French canned ones), cold peas, 
cauliflower, asparagus tips, and beets cut in forms, together. 
Serve either with French or mayonnaise dressing. 

MAYONNAISE OF TOMATOES. 

Select four round tomatoes; scald very quickly, and re- 
move the skins. Let them get entirely cold, then cut in 
several slices, taking great care not to remove the slices, 
so as to preserve the shape of the tomato. Serve on a lettuce 
leaf, w^ith a generous spoonful of mayonnaise sauce on the 
top of the tomato. 

FRENCH DRESSING. 

Lettuce, endive, cucumbers and almost any other green 
vegetable are most wholesome and palatable served with a 
simple French dressing, which is to be made at the table. In 
a deep plate or saucer put one tablespoonfiil of vinegar, a 
saltspoonf ul of salt, and a teaspoonful of onion grated, if you 
like that flavor. Gradually stir into it three tablespoonsful 
of oil. Pour on your salad and tomatoes. 



44 l^lxcHANGE Cook Book. 

ASPAKAGUS SALAD. 

Boil tender young asparagus in salted water until tender, 
twenty minutes is usually long enough. When done take 
out of the water, and let it get quite cold. Dish it tastefully 
in a salad dish and serve with a mayonnaise dressing. 



(©HEESE. 



CHEESE BALLS. 

Beat the white of two eggs to a stiff froth, add enough 
Parmesan cheese to make a stif? batter. Drop by spoonful 
into hot lard. Serve with salad, the instant they are done. 

CHEESE EONDU. 

Melt one tablespoonful ot butter in a saucepan, add to it 
one-half cup of bread crumbs, one gill of milk, one cu[) oi" 
grated cheese, the yolks of two eggs. Cook barely a minute. 
Remove from the fire, and stir in the whites of the two eggs 
well beaten. Season with red pepper and salt. Pour into 
paper cases, or i>atty shells, and bake until puffed up and a 
little brown. 

WELSH RAEEBIT. 

Have squares of toast hot find buttered, put a lump of 
butter and a quartei- of a pound of cheese in a cup. Put the 
cup in a vessel in which water is boiling. Stir until the 
cheese is melted, add a dash of red pepper, pour on the 
toast, and serve immediately. The addition of a little ale 
and mustard is considered an improvement by some people, 
I prefer the simpler way. 



Exchange Cook Book. 45 



Gggs, 



BAKED OMELET. 

Take six eggs, beat the yolks well, the whites to a stiff 
froth. Add to the yolks foui tablespooiisful of milk, half 
teaspoonful of salt and pepper mixed (one-third pepper, two- 
thirds salt), now stir in the whites. Have well-heated a fry- 
ingpan, put in it a lump of butter, when melted pour in the 
mixed eggs. When the eggs begin to set (harden at the 
bottom, slip a cake turner or knife under to prevent burning. 
As soon as the middle of the omelet is set, put the omelet 
in the oven for half a minute. Take out on a hot dish, bot- 
tom upwards. 

PLAIN OMELET. 

It is said that it takes a very good cook to make an omelet 
that is all an omelet should be: brown without, and soft 
and creamy within. Put a tablespoonful of butter in a 
smooth skillet. While it is melting break five eggs. Beat 
them only enough to break the yolks (about twenty strokes), 
add salt and pepper. As soon as the butter bubbles, pour in 
the eggs. Hold the skillet with one hand and gently shake 
it all the time. With a spoon, in the other hand, draw^ up 
the eggs from the edges of the pan to the center. As soon 
as it becomes a little firm, but not hard, fold one half over 
the other. If you are an expert maker of omelets, you will 
now toss the omelet, by shaking the skillet, to the exact 
center of a platter, otherwise you wall lift it out wdth a cake 
turner. Serve immediately. 

OMELET SOUFFLE. 

[Translated from the French.^ 
"Break six eggs; put the whites apart. Add to your yolks 
one good spoonful of powdered sugar and a little orange 



46 ExruANGE Cook Book. 

flower water. Stir well with a wooden spoon; whip the 
whites of the eggs until they are very firm. Mix them 
lightly, but exactly with the yolks. Place m the fryingpan 
a quarter of a jiound of fresh butter, and as soon as it is hot, 
without burning, pour the eggs in the pan and cook your 
omelet over a very quick tire. As soon as cooked turn out 
on a dish. Put this dish on the hot ashes, Avith the lid of a 
braising dish filled with hot coals above. Only let it stay for 
four or five minutes. This time suffices to lighten the ome- 
let. Sprinkle it with powdered sugar, glaze with a hot 
shovel. Serve immediately.'' To place the omelet on the 
upper shelf of a hot oven would have the same effect as the 
use of the braising dish of coals. 

CHEESE OMELET. 

Add one cupful of cheese, grated, to the ingredients of a 
plain omelet, and cook in the same way. 

EGGS, A LA CKEME. 

Boil twelve eggs for twenty minutes, throw into cold water 
for one minute, take out, and take off the shells; roll in sifted 
crumbs, that have been salted and peppered, then into beaten 
egg, and again in the crumbs; put in a wire basket and fry a 
delicate brown in very hot lard. Serve hot, with a cream or 
drawn butter sauce. 

BAKED OMELET. 

Six eggs well beaten, one cup of sweet milk, and a little 
salt; bake in individual dishes. 

SHIRRED EGGS. 

Heat egg dishes, butter them, break into each two eggs; 
set into the oven; cook to suit the taste, <'ither soft or well 
done; salt and pepper; serve in the dishes in which they are 
cooked. 



Exchange Cook Book, 



BOILED EGGS ITsT THE SHELL. 

Put them into boiling water and cook three minutes. For 
hard-boiled eggs, boil them from fifteen to twenty minutes. 
For dropped or poached eggs, l)reak them into boiling water 
and cook three minutes. 

FRIED EGGS. 

Melt some butter in a fryingpan, and when very hot drop 
in the eggs carefully; fry two minutes. 

SCRAMBLED EGGS. 

For scrambled eggs, beat the eggs quite light, and put them 
with a little butter, pepper and salt into a fryingpan. Stir 
them carefully until they are well thickened, and 'turn them 
out on a hot dish. 

SALAD EGGS. 

Boil a dozen eggs twenty minutes; cut them in two length- 
wise, take out the yolks, mash them, add a tablespoonful of 
melted butter, half a teaspoonful of salt, a half teaspoonful 
of made mustard, and moisten with vinegar. Make into 
balls the size of the yolk of an egg, put one in each half of 
white; or if preferred only fill even and place the two whites 
of each egg together. This receipt can be varied by adding 
to the yolk filling a little chopped pickle and ham or chicken 
very finely minced. 



Uegetables. 



BOILED POTATOES. 

Put them in a saucepan with just enough salted l)oiling 
water to cover them. Directly the skins begin to break, 



48 Exchange Cook Book. 

pour off all the water; place a coarse towel over them, and 
return to the tire again, until they are thoroughly done and 
quite dry. 

TIMBALE OF POTATOES. 

Cook, drain, mash and pass through a tine sieve two quarts 
of Irish potatoes; put this in a saucepan, with six ounces of 
butter, two whole eggs, the yolks of six eggs, salt and pepper. 
Have a plain two-quart mold, well buttered and sprinkled 
with fresh bread crumbs; put the preparation in it, with a 
little more bread crumbs, and bits of butter on the top; bake 
for half an hour in a moderately hot oven; before serving 
pass the blade of a knife between the potatoes and the mold, 
turn over carefully, and in a few minutes take the mold off 
and serve. 

NEW POTATOES. 

Scrape and wash new potatoes, put in a saucepan with hot 
water; when done ]>our off the water, set them on top of the 
stove a few minutes to stew, put in a lump of butter the size 
of an egg, two tablespoonsful of cream, season with salt and 
pepper. Shake the pan to keep them from burning. Another 
way is to serve them with a cream sauce. 

POTATO PUFF. 

Two cups of cold mashed potatoes; stir in two tablespoons- 
ful of melted butter, beating to a cream; add two well-beaten 
eggs, and one cup of cream or milk; pour into a deep dish; 
bake in a quick oven. 

SARATOGA POTATOES. 

Cut raw potatoes into very thin slices; soak them in cold 
water one hour. Dry them in a towel, and drop into boiling 
fat. When lirowned, remove from the fat and sprinkle with 
salt. 



Exchange Cook Book. 49 

BAKED POTATO BALLS. 

Make hot seasoned mashed potatoes into balls, put them 
on a buttered tinpan; brush them over Avith egg and bake 
until brown. 

SCALLOPED POTATOES. 

Cut cold, boiled potatoes into dice. Put into a baking 
dish a layer of cream sauce, then one of potatoes; continue 
this until your potatoes are used up, having a layer of sauce 
last. Sprinkle with cracker or bread crumbs. Bake in a hot 
oven until brown on top. 

POTATO CROQUETTES. 

Take one pint of freshly cooked mashed potatoes. Be sure 
they are mashed very smooth. Make a white cream sauce of 
a heaping tablespoonful of butter, the same of flour. Rub 
together in a saucepan; let it boil, and when it begins to 
bubble pour in one-half pint of milk. Let it boil up once, 
then stir in your mashed potatoes. Season to taste. Pour 
on a platter to cool; when cold form into balls, roll in cracker 
cruml)s, egg and cracker crumbs again. Fry a pale brown in 
hot lard. 

STUFFED POTATOES. 

Bake a half dozen potatoes; when soft cut off the ends and 
scrai)e out the potato. Mash very smooth, and season with 
salt, butter and a little cream. Fill the skins with the mix- 
ture, piling it up at the top. Set them on end in a baking- 
dish and return to the oven to brown slightly. Chopped 
meat of any kind can be added to the potato before return- 
ing to the skins. 

MASHED POTATOES. 

Peel and boil until soft a dozen medium-sized potatoes in 
as little salted water as will cover them; as soon as done, 
mash thoroughly, adding a tablespoonful of butter and three 



50 Exchange Cook Book. 

tablespoonsfiil of cream or milk; serve very hot. They are 
improved by putting in a dish, round them over the top, 
brush with egg, put a lump of butter in a hole in the center, 
then set in the hot oven for five minutes. Should be sent to 
the table in the dish in which it was baked. 

POTATO CAKES. 

Take one pint of mashed i)otatoes which have just been 
cooked. Mix them with a pint of milk, two eggs (beaten) and 
a tablespoonful of butter. When luke-warm, add one-third 
of a cake of compressed yeast and enough flour to make it 
rather stiff. Let rise, and form into cakes. Let them rise 
again then bake until brown. 

POTATOES, A LA LYONNAISE. 

Cut cold, boiled potatoes into dice. Melt a tablespoonful 
of butter in a saucepan, add a teaspoonful of onion chopped; 
fry the onion. Then add the potatoes and shake them about 
until they are very hot; but not brown. Add some chopped 
parsley. 

THE BEST WAY TO FRY POTATOES. 

Pare six large potatoes. Cut them into long strips, about 
three inches long and one-half inch wide and deep. Soak 
them in cold water for half an hour. Drain and cook in hot 
lard. When they are nearly done, remove from the hot fat 
and drain. Then return them to the hot lard again. This 
will make them puff up. Cook until pale brown, and drain 
on brown paper. Season with salt. 

Little balls cut out of potatoes, with the little tool which 
comes for that purpose, are very nice fried this way. They 
are then potatoes a la Parisienne. 

POTATO SALAD. 

This is a very appetizing, every-day salad. Cut cold boiled 
potatoes into rather thick slices, add hard boiled eggs sliced. 



Exchange Cook Book. 51 



one onion sliced, and a teaspoonf iil of chopped parsley. Pour 
over all a good salad dressing. Mayonnaise is best, but as 
that is very expensive use instead a cooked dressing, the 
directions for which may be found in the chapter on "Salads." 
Cut the onions into slices instead of chopping them, so that 
they impart their flavor to the salad and yet need not be 
eaten. Of course they may be omitted, if desired. 

TO COOK MUSHROOMS. 

The simplest way of cooking mushrooms is the best. If 
you have fresh country ones great care must be taken in 
cleaning them. Wash them in cold water, and if they are 
large, skin them. Cut each stem across the end, and if there 
are any holes as small as a fine needle, if you follow them up 
you will probably find worms. They always creep up through 
the stems, and if the stems are solid the mushrooms are good. 
When they are entirely clean drain them. Now i)ut a lump 
of butter the size of an egg into a saucepan. When it bub- 
bles stir into it one tablespoonful of flour, thin it with one- 
half pint of milk. Flavor it with salt and a little red pepper. 
When the flour is cooked stir in the mushrooms, and let them 
boil for two or three minutes. This quantity of sauce is 
enough for two quarts of mushrooms, but it is best to make 
the same amount even if you have fewer mushrooms. When 
cooked in this way they are very nice served on toast or in 
})ate shells. If you really like the flavor of mushrooms you 
will not ruin them by adding Worcestershire sauce. 

FRIED MUSHROOMS. 

Skin and sprinkle with salt; dip in beaten egg, then in 
cracker crumbs, and fry in hot lard. 

MUSHROOMS ON TOAST. 

Select large, field mushrooms. Cut off the stems, and turn 
(^ach one upside down on a square of toast. Fill up the hol- 
low of each mushroom with a lump of butter, a spoonful of 



52 ExcHAis^GE Cook Book. 

cream and a little salt. Bake for a few minutes in a hot 
oven. Serve quickly. 

STEWED TOMATOES. 

Scald as many tomatoes as you need, slice and place in a 
stewpan without water; let them boil slowly for half an hour. 
Add salt, pepper and butter; also a very little sugar and 
bread crumbs; boil up once more and serve very hot. 

Another nice way to stew tomatoes is as above, except 
when first put on to cook add two even tablespoonsful of raw 
rice, to one quart of tomatoes; in this no bread crumbs are 
used, but they are seasoned the same. 

GREENS. 

After carefully washing greens, put them to boil in salted 
water; do not cover them. Three-quarters of an hour is usu- 
ally long enough to boil them. Some persons prefer them 
boiled with ham or a piece of breakfast bacon. When the 
greens are done, drain them in a colander, put them in a hot 
dish, season with pepper, and if they have been boiled with- 
out meat, add butter and, if necessary, salt. 

Cabbage may be cooked the same way, but may need to 
boil longer if not very young. 

FRIED PLANTAINS OR BANANAS. 

Cut in slices lengthwise, drop in egg and then in sugar and 
flour, mixed; fry in lard until brown, sprinkle sugar over 
them and serve hot. 

STUFFED TOMATOES. 

Select twelve ripe tomatoes, round, and of an average size. 
Cut off the stem end and with a spoon carefully remove the 
pulp and seeds, leaving intact the walls of the tomato. Mix 
up a rich stuffing of equal parts of bread crumbs and finely- 
minced cold chicken and cold ham; add melted butter, pepper, 
salt, some of the tomato pulp, two cloves and two grains of 



Exchange Cook Book. 53 

allspice pounded fine. Mix all together thoroughly and let it 
be moist, but not too soft. Into each tomato, before stuffing, 
sprinkle a pinch of salt and sugar; stuff them full and set 
them close together in a pretty baking-dish. Pour over each 
a little melted butter, sprinkle lightly with bread crumbs and 
bake for half an hour. 

BOSTON BAKED BEANS. 

Take one quart of beans and i)ut them in cold water, letting 
them soak on the back of the stove until the water grows hot. 
Drain all the water off and wash them, then put them in the 
baking pot with one teaspoonful of sugar, one teaspoonful of 
molasses, and one pound of pork. Cover them with water 
and cover the pot closely and let them bake all day, adding 
water when necessary. — Mrs. Harrison, Bostoyi. 

BOILED PARSNIPS. 

If young, scrape before cooking; if old, pare carefully, 
and if large, split. Put into boiling water, salted, and boil, 
if small and tender, from half to three-quarters of an hour; 
if full grown, longer. When boiled cut in half, pour over 
them melted butter, and brown in the oven. 

SQUASH. 

Unless they are extremely tender, it is best to pare them. 
Take out the seeds, quarter them, and lay the pieces in cold 
water. Boil about half an hour. Drain well, pressing out 
all tne water; mash soft and smooth, and season with butter, 
pepper and salt, cream, and a little Hour. 

BOILED ONIONS. 

Boil in salted water and drain. Mix a little flour and 
butter together, and put in two tablespoonsful of warm milk; 
boil and pour over the onions; season. 



54 Exchange Cook Book. 

BOILED TURNIPS. 

Boil turnips in a good deal of salt water, when solt drain 
off the water and season with cream and butter. 

BAKED MACARONI. 

Boil one-half pound of macaroni until quite soft, put it 
into a vegetable dish, with pepper and salt, a small piece of 
butter, and some grated cheese. Bake ten or fifteen minutes, 
until slightly browned. 

BEETS. 

Boil until tender; season with butter, pepper and salt. 

STEAMED RICE. 

Wash in three or four waters, put in the steamer, allow 
full three times as much water as rice; put in a little salt. 
When done the kernels will remain whole and yet be soft. 

HULLED CORN. 

Put in an iron kettle a quantity of shelled corn, with water 
enough to cover. Place two cups of hard wood ashes in a bag 
and boil with the corn until the hulls begin to start. Strain 
off the lye, remove the ash bag and boil in clear water. Strain 
off once again and boil until done. Salt to taste. 

STUFEED EGG PLANT. 

Cut the plant in two; scrape out the inside and put it in a 
saucepan with a little minced ham; cover with water and boil 
until soft; drain off and add two tablespoonsful grated 
crumbs, one tablespoonful of butter, half a minced onion, 
with pepper and salt to taste. Fill each half with the mix- 
ture; add a small lump of butter and bake for fifteen minutes. 
Or, if preferred, omit ham, using more l)read crumbs and 
mixinsj them with beaten egg yolks (two to an egg plant). 

FRIED OYSTER PLANT. 

Scrape and lay in cold water ten minutes. Boil tender, 
drain, and when cold mash with a wooden spoon, picking out 



Exchange Cook Book. 55 

the fibrous parts. Wet to a paste with milk; work in a little 
butter and one and one-half eggs for each cupful of oyster 
plant. Beat the eggs very light, season to taste, make into 
round, flat cakes, dredge with flour, and fry to a light brown; 
drain off the fat and serve hot. 

SPINACH. 

Wash well, cook in salted, boiling w^ater. Drain and chop 
fine. Put in a tablespoonful of butter into a saucepan with 
seasoning. Stir in the spinach and beat smooth. Add a 
tablespoonful of cream, or two of milk. Serve hot. 

CAULIFLOWER. 

Boil in water to which a little salt has been added. Drain 
and lay in a deep dish with flower uppermost. Make a cup 
of cream or drawn butter sauce, and pour over. 

SOUTHERN WAY OF COOKING SWEET 
POTATOES. 

Steam half a dozen sweet })otatoes until soft; remove from 
steamer and peel, cut in slices half an inch thick, put in a 
bakingpan; pour melted butter over them, sprinkle them with 
granulated sugar and brown in the oven. 

STUFFED BELL PEPPERS. 

Take either red or green bell peppers, the largest you can 
get; halve them, take out all seeds, and stuff them with a 
force-meat made from any kind of cooked meat, or fowl, chop- 
ped flne, add half as much crumbed bread as meat; also a 
little grated onion and salt; no pepper; pour over this enough 
melted butter and water to bind together. Fill the half pej)- 
})ers with this, rounding them up on top and bake. 

TOMATOES STUFFED WITH RICE. 

Take large, smooth tomatoes; do not skin them; cut a thin 
slice from the stem end, scoop out the inside, but leave a shell 



56 Exchange Cook Book. 

half an inch thick; save the tomato you have taken out; chop 
tine. Season witli pepper, salt, melted butter and a little 
sugar. Add as much cooked rice as tomatoes; fill tomato 
shells, and bake half an hour. 

OKRA. 

Take young okra pods, wash them and boil them until 
tender in salted water. Season with pepper, butter and salt, 
if needed. 

EGG PLANT. 

Peel and cut in pieces one large or two small egg plants. 
Boil in salted water until soft. Mash and ijut through a col- 
ander. Add two or three eggs (beaten separately), two table- 
spoonsful of milk and flour to make a batter, season with salt 
and pei)per. Drop by spoonful in hot lard and fry a golden 
brown. Serve very hot. 

FRIED EGG PLANT. 

Cut in slices, salt, and let them stand for one hour; wash 
off the salt and wipe dry. Di]) in egg, then crumbs, and fry. 

BOILED CORN. 

Boil in salted water twenty minutes. 

PEAS. 

Boil peas in salted water in an uncovered saucepan twenty 
minutes. Drain and ])Our into a hot dish in which have a 
tablespoonful of melted butter; add pepper and salt to taste. 
Serve as quickly as possible. 

STRING BEANS. 

String and break in inch lengths. Soak in cold water half 
an hour. Drain and put into boiling water with a small piece 
of bacon or salt pork. Boil half an hour. Drain, add cream; 
season and dish. Many do not like the pork, in that case add 
a lump of butter to the cream. 



Exchange Cook Book. 5*1 

LIMA BEANS. 

Boil in salted water until soft; season with butter and salt. 

CARROTS. 

Boil in salted water and serve with cream dressing. 

ASPARAGUS ON TOAST. 

Tie the stalks in small bunches, boil them in a very little 
salted water about half an hour; toast as many slices of bread 
as there are bunches of asparagus, lay a bunch on each slice, 
add butter to the water sufficient to make a rich gravy, thicken 
with a little Hour, season with pepper, and pour over the 
asparagus. 

SCALLOPED TOMATOES. 

Peel and slice the tomatoes; have ready grated bread 
crumbs, seasoned with sugar; butter, cayenne pepper and 
salt. Place alternate layers of tomatoes and crumbs in the 
dish, and bake two hours. 

MOCK OYSTERS. 

Grate the corn, and allow to every cupful, one egg, a table- 
spoonful of milk, and a little salt and butter; stir all together 
and thicken with a little flour. They may be tried in hot 
lard or cooked on a griddle the same as batter cakes. 

CRANBERRY SAUCE. 

To one quart of cranberries, picked and washed, put one 
pint of water. Boil about fifteen minutes; stir almost con- 
stantly with a wooden spoon or paddle, crushing every berry. 
When they are almost cooked put in one pound of sugar. 

GREEN CORN PUDDING. 

Twelve ears of corn (grated), three eggs well beaten, one 
pint of sweet milk, one-half cup of butter, one tablespoonful 
of sugar, pepper and salt to taste. Bake one hour. . 



Exchange Cook Book. 



SUCCOTASH. 

This is made of green corn and Lima, string, or butter 
beans. Have a third more corn then beans, when the former 
has been cut from the cob and the beans shelled. Put into 
boiling water enough to cover them, and stew gently together 
until tender. Pour off nearly all the water, and add a large 
cupful of milk. Stew in this for an hour; then stir in a great 
lump of butter, a teaspoonful of Hour wet with cold milk; 
pepper and salt to taste. 



Br^EAD. 



The foundation of the art of cookery is tlie ability to make 
good bread, since that is the most important article of diet, 
and upon its nutritive qualities the health of the family is 
likely to depend. 

The first necessity for the making of good bread is pure 
materials, but since these are only four, it is very easy to get 
them. Flour, yeast, salt and water are the only necessary 
ingredients. 

Good flour may be known by its creamy color. It is never 
blue white, and also by the test of squeezing it in the hand. 
If it is good, it will retain the shape into which it has been 
pressed. 

There are many varieties of yeast; in fact, almost every 
cook has her especial kind, though the yeast germ is the 
same in all, and any yeast which will rise, and is not sour, is 
entirely satisfactory. Compressed yeast, when fresh, is, on 
the whole, the most convenient to use, as it shortens the pro- 
cess of bread making. Salt and water are certainly within 
the reach of all. 



Exchange Cook Book. 59 

Yeast is a fungoid plant, which grows in flour and water. 
This growth is accompanied by a fermentation which pro- 
duces alcohol and carbonic acid gas. When the bread has 
risen to twice its original bulk, it is put into an oven of more 
than three hundred degrees, which kills the yeast; the alco- 
hol has escaped, but the carbonic acid gas has formed bub- 
bles, which have made the bread light. 

Bread always weighs more than the flour of which it is 
made, because some of the water is retained in it. One 
pound of flour usually makes a pound and a quarter of bread. 

Yeast grows best at a temperature ranging between seven- 
ty-five and eighty-five degress. 

A good loaf of bread ought to be of a uniform brown color, 
rounded on top, and of a sweet and nutty flavor. The reason 
so much bread is tasteless and even sour, is because it is 
allowed to rise too long. 

Now as to the details of the process. I will take it for 
granted that my reader is a beginner in the art of bread- 
making. There are two ways of making bread, one is to 
"set a sponge," that is put the yeast in a soft batter of flour 
and water, the other is to mix it in dough immediately. As 
the latter process takes less time, and always produces good 
bread, I will describe that: 

In one quart of luke-warm water dissolve one cake of com- 
pressed yeast and one heaping teaspoonful of salt. Remem- 
ber hot water would kill the yeast. Add flour until it is stiff 
enough to knead, without sticking to your hands or to the 
bread board, but not any more, or your bread will be dry. 
Knead it until the yeast is thoroughly mixed with the other 
ingredients, then slip into a greased bowl. Grease the bowl 
so that you will not waste flour by having the dough stick to 
the bowl, and use a bowl of earthenware in preference to a 
tinpan, because it is so much thicker it will keep the bread 
at a more even temperature. Brush the to]) of the dough 



60 Exchange Cook Book. 

with melted butter, so that no hard crust will form. Cover 
your bread with a clean cloth and a blanket, and set it some 
place where the heat is not less than seventy-fire degress or 
more than eighty-five degrees, and where it will continue 
about the same. Don't put it too near a hot cook stove, and 
be equally careful about draughts. In about three hours 
your dough will have rounded up beautifully. As soon as it 
is twice its original bulk, it is ready to make into loaves. 
This quantity usually makes three loaves, or two and a pan 
of rolls. Knead for a few minutes, but without adding more 
fiour, form into loaves and place them in greased pans. Put 
melted butter on them, and let them rise an nour. Try your 
oven to see if it is hot enough. If you can just bear your 
hand in it while you count twenty-five slowly, it is about 
right. Bake them about an hour. A gas stove will bake 
bread in forty-five or fifty minutes, so something depends on 
the oven. When you take the bread out of the pans tap 
them on the bottom. If they give out a hollow sound they 
are done. 

If you desire to make more bread at once, it is not neces- 
sary to increase the yeast in the same proportion. One cake 
of compressed yeast is enough to use with two quarts of 
water, and it will take it very little, if any, longer to use. I 
have not tested its lightenning qualities further than this. 
It might do for even more, but that I cannot vouch for. 

The rolls made from this dough are very good, too. If 
rolled out and cut out with a biscuit cutter, spread with 
butter, and folded over they make pocketbook rolls, which 
are particularly nice. 

Bread made according to these directions will always be 
good and sweet. It is not the only way to make good bread, 
but it is a sure and easy way. 



ExcHAXGE Cook Book. 61 



HOP YEAST. 

Three quarts water, one pint hops, one pint sliced pota- 
toes, one cap sugar, three-fourth cup of salt, one tablespoon- 
ful ginger. Put the hops in a bag, and then put them with 
the potatoes into the water, which must be measured, let 
them boil together until the potatoes are done, then put the 
potatoes through the col lander, press out all the water from 
the bag of hops into the kettle, and after putting the pota- 
toes back into the water measure it to be sure there are three 
quarts, if not add enough water for that amount. Then after 
adding the sugar, salt, and ginger, and letting it come to the 
boiling point, thicken it with three tablespoonsful of Hour, 
smoothed with cold water, pour out into a crock, let it cool, 
and stir into it one and one-half cups of good yeast, when 
bubbles begin to form thickly on top, cork it tightly in a jug 
after taking out the cup and one-half which will be used next 
time the yeast is made, and which should be kept in another 
jug and not opened. This yeast is infallible if made exactly 
by the receipt, and will not sour under most trying circum- 
stances. It will keep from one month to six weeks in the 
hottest weather, but must be kei)t in the cellar or other cool 
place. — M7's. 7 has. D. Logan. 

HOME-MADE YEAST. 

Boil a pint of hops in a quart of water. Let it boil slowly 
for half an hour. Strain it on a pint of flour; add one table- 
spoonful of salt, when cool stir in one cupful of yeast. When 
it rises put it away in a tightly corked stone jug. 

SALT RISING BREAD. 

Into a pint of milk, stir half a teacupful of flour, and one 
teaspoonful of salt. Put in a bottle and that in warm water. 
Let it stay until light, add luke-warm water, then stir in 
enough flour to make a dough. Form into loaves, let rise 
and bake. 



62 Exchange Cook Book. 

GRAHAM BREAD. 

Half cup of yeast, pint of warm milk or water, and flour 
enough to make a tliin batter. Let it rise over night. Stir 
in, in the morning, half a cup of sugar, salt, teaspoonful of 
saleratus dissolved in water, and Graham enough to make a 
very stiff batter. Beat all the ingredients thoroughly into 
the sponge before adding the Graham, and then stir in the 
Graham, a little at a time, beating well. Shape into loaves 
and bake an hour and a half. The oven should not be so hot 
as for white bread. 

ROLLS. 

To one and a half joints of bread sponge add one table- 
spoonful of sugar, one teaspoonful of salt, two tablespoons- 
ful lard, the whites of two eggs well beaten, and flour enough 
to make dough. Let it rise until light, then knead it down 
and let it rise again. Form into rolls, and when they are 
light bake them. 

ENTIRE WHEAT BREAD. 

One quart of warm water, one yeast cake, one tablespoon- 
ful of salt, two of sugar, and two and one-half pounds of 
entire wheat flour. Mix and let stand three hours. Stir it 
doAvn and pour in pans, allowing room to rise. Proof half 
an hour, and bake twenty minutes for one-pound loaves. — 
Good Housekeeping. 

WHOLE WHEAT MUFFINS. 

Dissolve a half cake of compressed yeast in half a pint of 
milk, and add sufficient quantity of rich milk to make a pint. 
Stir into it three cups of whole wheat flour, and set in a warm 
place to rise. When light, stir in two well-beaten eggs, and 
turn into gem irons, half flUing them. Let them rise until 
very light, and bake in a quick oven. 



Exchange Cook Book. 63 

RUSK. 

One pint of milk, half a cup of melted butter, two beaten 
eggs, one cup powdered sugar, one quart of flour, half a cake 
of compressed yeast melted in luke-warm water, or one half a 
cup of other good yeast. Mix well; set it away to rise; when 
risen to twice its original size, knead well, adding more flour 
if necessary, make into rusk, put into a pan to rise again 
When quite light, bake in a moderate warm oven about three- 
quarters of an hour. 

CRUMPETS. 

Time: five minutes after the top has blistered. One and 
one-half ounces of German yeast, or a gill of common yeast, 
a quart of warm milk, a cupful of melted butter, a little salt. 
Make the milk warm, and stir it into the yeast with a little 
salt; add a sufficient quantity of flour to make it into a batter. 
Set it to rise for half an hour, then add a cupful of melted 
butter. Stir it well in, and pour it into iron rings, previously 
placed on hot griddle, and bake them very lightly on both 
sides. When required toast them on both sides, taking care 
they do not burn. Butter them nicely, cut them across, and 
put them up on a hot plate. Serve them quickly; hot. — 
Mrs. Coriieau. 

SALLY LUNN. 

In one pint of luke-warm water dissolve half a cake of 
compressed yeast, and a teaspoonful of salt. Stir in one 
quart of flour, two eggs well beaten, and a tablespoonful of 
butter melted. Put it into a pan and let it rise. When light 
bake it. When it is done, split it open and butter it. Serve 
very hot. 

ENGLISH MUFFINS. 

One pint of milk and water mixed. Dissolve in this a little 
salt and one-half cake of compressed yeast, add one Qgg^ 



64 Exchange Cook Book. 

(beaten), and enough flour to make a thick batter. Let it 
rise till very light. Bake in muffin rings on a griddle. 

BEATEN BISCUIT. 

Mix one-half pint of cold water, one tablespoonful of lard, 
one quart of flour and teaspoonful of salt. Rub the lard in 
the flour, and add water and salt. This makes a very stiff 
dough. Put it on a board and beat it for thirty minutes. A 
wooden mallet is the best thing to beat it with. At the end 
of that time the dough will be very elastic. Pull off pieces 
and form into l)alls about the size of a walnut, flatten slightly 
and prick with a fork. They must never be cut out with a 
cutter. Bake in a quick oven until slightly brown. These 
are the real old-fasbioned Maryland biscuits, though a very 
old cook book substitutes cream for water. 

WAFER BISCUIT. 

Made' out of the beaten biscuit dough. Pull off little 
pieces and roll into balls the size of marbles. Roll out as 
thin as possible, until they are as big as saucers, if you can. 
Prick with a fork, and bake very carefully. 

BREAKFAST PUFFS. 

To one pint of flour, add one teaspoonful of salt, one pint 
of milk, and three eggs, the white and yolks beaten separ- 
ately until very light. Pour into hot greased muffin tins, 
only half fllling each tin. Bake in a very hot oven. They 
will be very light, and of a much more delicate flavor and 
texture than if raised with baking powder. 

MUFFINS. 

One heaping pint of flour, one heaping teaspoonful of 
baking powder, one pint of milk, three eggs well beaten 
(separately), one tablespoonful of butter, and a little salt. 



Exchange Cook Book. 65 



BAKING POWDER BISCUIT. 

Sift a teaspoonful of salt and a heaping one of baking 
powder into one pint of flour. Rub into this one tablespoon- 
ful of lard. Mix with enough milk or water to make a 8oft 
dough. Bake in a quick oven. 

CORN DODGERS. 

Put a tablespoonful of lard and a little salt in a pint of 
corn meal. Pour over it enough boiling water to make a 
very stiff mush. Set it aside to cool. When luke-warm add 
three well-beaten eggs. Drop by spoonsful on a greased 
baking pan. Bake in a hot oven. 

VIRGINIA PONE. 

One teacup of boiled rice, butter size of half an egg, scald 
two cups of Indian meal in which melt the butter. Mix to- 
gether with sweet milk, add four eggs (beaten separately), 
the whites put in just before going into the oven, a little 
salt. Do not make batter too stiff. Bake about half an hour 
in shallow tins. — Mrs. Merryman. 

MUSH. 

Make a thin batter of corn meal and water, with a little 
salt. Beat it well, put in a pan that will lit in your steamer, 
and let it steam three hours. When you wish to fry the 
mush after it is cold, cut in slices, dip in flour, and fry in 
hot lard. Another way to fry mush is to drop the hot mush 
by spoonful into boiling lard. This is an improvement on 
the other way. 

CORN BREAD. 

One pint of boiling hot milk poured into a pint of corn 
meal, four eggs well beaten, two tablespoonsful of flour, salt, 
teaspoonful baking powder. 



Exchange Cook Book. 



STEAMED CORN BREAD. 

Two cups of corn meal, one cup of flour, one cup of sweet 
milk, one cup of sour milk, one cup of molasses, one tea- 
spoonful of soda, one teaspoonful of salt; steam three hours. 

CORN GRIDDLE CAKES. 

One pint of milk, three eggs, a little salt, and corn meal 
enough to make a thin batter. Beat all well together. 

WAFFLES. 

One pint of milk, four eggs, tablespoonful of melted 
butter, saltspoonful of salt, flour enough to make a thick 
batter, two teaspoonsful of baking powder. Heat irons well 
before filling. To make rice waffles add two tablespoonsful 
of milk and a cup of cold boiled rice to this recipe. 

BUCKWHEAT CAKES. 

One pint of buckwheat flour, two teaspoonsful of baking 
powder, water enough to make a thin batter, and one salt- 
spoonful of salt. Beat well and bake on a hot griddle. 

RAISED BUCKWHEAT CAKES. 

Take a quart of buckwheat flour, mix it with enough luke- 
warm water to make a batter, and one-half cake of compress- 
ed yeast, add salt. Set to rise late at night. In the morn- 
ing, if the batter should be too thick, thin with a little luke- 
warm water. Bake on a hot griddle. 

GRIDDLE CAKES. 

One pint of milk warmed, into this stir a spoonful of melt- 
ed butter, two eggs well-beaten, a little salt, one teaspoonful 
of baking powder, flour enough to make a thin batter. 
Rice cakes can be made by the addition of a cupful of cold 
boiled rice. 



ExcHAXGE Cook Book. 6Y 



(gAI(E fflAKING. 



The greatest care and closest attention to details are 
always necessary to successful cake making. When you 
start to make a cake, first measure or weigh all your mate- 
rials, and prepare them to go into the cake. Sift the flour 
with the baking powder in it. If fruit is to be used have it 
already prepared and dredged with flour. Then when your 
materials are ready, see that your oven is in proper condi- 
tion, and that your pans are greased and papered. Now, 
with no delay, you can mix your cake. Cream the butter 
alone, first, if it is hard, then add the sugar, and cream them 
together. If yolks of eggs are used they must be well- 
l)eaten and added next. After that the flour and milk must 
be put in alternately. Lastly beat in the whites of the eggs, 
whipped to so Arm a froth that they will not fall out of the 
bowl if you turn it upside down. It is better to whip them 
with an ordinary egg-beater, in preference to a Dover egg- 
beater, because the latter makes the egg of too flne a grain, 
and not light enough. This makes a great difference in 
angel food, and sponge cakes, especially. If fruit is to be used 
it should be put in just before putting the cake in the pans, 
having been previously well-dredged with flour. Directions 
for baking will be found in the next article. 

SOME HINTS ON CAKE MAKING. 

The first thing to be considered, as a matter of course, is 
the material used. First, get good country butter, the whiter 
the better. I have never heard of any one who succeeded in 
making nice cake from the creamery butter. Eggs must be 
fresh and cold in order to beat into a stiff firm froth. 



68 Exchange Cook Book. 

The finer the granulated sugar the more confident I am of 
success. In creaming the butter and sugar I always use a 
little water. In winter use boiling water, and warm weather 
cold water; not ice water, but fresh from the well. I like a 
wooden paddle much better than a spoon for stirring cake, 
and always use one. 

My tins are lined with paper, well-greased with fresh, 
sweet lard. Too much care cannot be given the oven, for 
the finest cake dough is easily spoiled in the baking. Cake 
requires a rather slow oven at first, until nicely raised and 
set, then an increase of heat is needed to finish off nicely. 

I am well aware that some are more successful with one 
recipe than with others, and it is one thing to write out a 
recipe aud quite another thing to put the cake together. If 
"practice makes perfect" in any one thing, it does in cake 
making, therefore my advice to all cake makers is, get a good 
recipe and stick to it until practice has made perfect. — Mrs. 
H. G. Post. 

ICING. 

confectioners' sugar icing. 
Take two glasses just the same size, into one put the white 
of an egg, into the other the same quantity of cold water, 
stir together, thicken with confectioner's sugar until it is very 
stiff, beating hard, add the juice of a lemon, use. 

BOILED ICING. 

Put three cupfuls of sugar in a sauce pan with one cup of 
water, boil to a thick syrup; pour it boiling hot over the 
whites of three eggs, stirring hard, add juice of a lemon 
fiavor with vanilla, spread on the cake warm. 

COLD ICING. 

Is made by beating as much pulverized sugar into the white 
of an egg as will make a stiff icing, flavor and add one tea- 
spoonful of lemon juice. 



Exchange Cook Book. 69 

FILLINGS FOR LAYER CAKES. 

Use any white cake preferred for the layers and use any of 
these fillings: 

FILLING FOR ALMOND CAKE. 

One cup of blanched almonds pounded fine; one cup sweet 
cream, one egg beaten and added thereto, one tablespoonful 
corn starch, sugar to taste. Cook until the consistency of 
cream, then add the almonds; flavor with half teaspoonful of 
bitter almonds; let partially cool, then spread between layers. 
— Miss Lillie Fisher. 

LEMON FILLING. 

Grate the yellow rind from two lemons and add juice, one 
cup of sugar, tablespoon of butter, yolks of two eggs, stir 
constantly over the stove until it jellies, it is better to cook 
it in a rice boiler, when cool spread between cakes. 

CHOCOLATE FILLING. 

Put two cups of white sugar in pan with half a cup of hot 
water, boil to clear thick syrup then pour hot over the whites 
of three well beaten eggs, beating all the time; stir in one 
cup of grated chocolate, flavor wath vanilla. 

COCOANUT. 

Grate cocoanut over icing between the layers and on top 
of the cake. 

PINEAPPLE. 

Cover each layer and the top with icing, thickly sprinkle 
with grated pineapple. 

STRAWBERRY. 

Cover each layer with icing, then with stemmed straw- 
berries, more icing, then cake; only icing on top layer. 



Exchange^ Cook Book. 



ORANGE. 

Two oranges, juice and rind, iuiee of one lemon, one and 
a quarter pounds of confectioner's sugar, whites of two eggs. 

ROCKY MOUNTAIN. 

One cup each of chopped raisins and almonds, s|»rinkled 
over icing between layers, and outside. 

POUND CAKE. 

One pound of butter, one })ound of tiour, one pound of 
sugar, ten eggs, one-fourth of a nutmeg grated, one wine- 
glass of sherry and brandy mixed. Beat the butter and sugar 
to a cream, whisk the eggs till they are very light, then add 
them to the l)utter, and sugar alternately with the flour. Stir 
in the nutmeg and liquor and beat the whole very hard for 
ten or fifteen minutes. Line your pan with paper well but- 
tered, pour in the mixture and bake it in a moderate oven for 
about one hour. 

WHITE POUND CAKE. 

One pound of powdered sugar, one pound butter, creamed 
together, one pound of flour, sifted twice; add this alter- 
nating with the whites of sixteen eggs well beaten. No 
baking powder. Any flavor you desire. 

WHITE CAKE. 

One cup of butter, two of sugar, cream together; add one 
cup of milk, then cup and a half of flour, beating well; the 
whites of eight eggs, well beaten; another cup and a half of 
flour, in which are two teaspoonsful of baking powder; any 
extract you prefer, one teaspoonful. 

These three recipes may be varied by any of the following 
additions: 

For Raisin cake add two pounds of seeded raisins, dredged 
with flour. 



Exchange Cook Book. 71 

For Almond cake flavor with bitter almond, add a pound 
of almonds, blanched and pounded, or, it" you prefer, sliced. 

Currant cake: One pound of currants dredged with flour. 

Hickorynut cake: Add two cups of hickorynut kernels. 

Citron cake: One pound of citron sliced fine. 

White Fruit cake: Use white pound cake recipe, add one 
pound of citron sliced, two pounds currants, and two pounds 
of seeded raisins. All the fruit to be well-dredged with flour. 

For Impel ial cake add to white pound cake, one pound of 
raisins, seeded, and one pound almonds, blanched and sliced. 
Almonds and raisins to be dredged with flour. 

For Cocoanut cake (loaf) use either recipe, and add one 
pound of grated cocoanut. 

For Chocolate Marble use white cake recipe. Take out 
one-half ot the batter, and add to it a cup of grated choco- 
late, one teaspoonful of vanilla, and one tablespoonful of 
powdered sugar; put white, then chocolate in the pan, alter- 
nately. Use chocolate icing. 

Many other kinds of cake may be made with these cakes as 
foundations. The white cake is an especially good recipe to 
use in making layer cakes. 

BLACK FRUIT CAKE. 

One pound and a half of brown sugar, creamed with a 
pound and a half of butter, fifteen eggs (beaten separately), 
one pound and a half of browned flour, one cup of black 
molasses, one teaspoonful of soda dissolved in half a cup of 
sweet milk, one wine-glass of wine and one of brandy. One 
tablespoonful of ground spices, mixed: cloves, cinnamon, all- 
spice and nutmeg, one-fourth of each. When well-mixed, 
add three pounds of seeded raisins, three pounds of currants, 
one pound of citron sliced fin«^, one pound of almonds blanch- 
ed and sliced; all to be dredged with flour. Bake four hours. 



12 Exchange Cook Book. 

FRUIT CAKE. 

One pound eacli of sugar, butter, eggs, and flour, one-half 
cup of brandy and black molasses, mixed; half teaspoonful 
each of ground cinnamon, cloves, allspice, black pepper and 
grated nutmeg; two pounds of raisins, two of currants and 
one of citron sliced fine; all dredged with flour. Bake four 
hours. 

ICE CREAM CAKE. 

One cup of butter, two of sugar, one cup of milk, whites 
of eight eggs, two cups of flour and one of corn starch, two 
teaspoonsful of baking powder. Bake in two layers. Boil 
four cups of sugar and one cup of water together until clear 
and candied; and pour it over the whites of four well-beaten 
eggs, beating hard until it is a stiff cream; add tablespoonful 
of lemon juice and flavor with vanilla; spread between and 
over the cakes. 

Here is a new recipe called 

BROWN STONE FRONT. 

First. One-half cup of butter (scant), one cup brown sugar, 
one-half cup of milk. 

Second. Two cui)s flour, one teaspoon soda, yolks of three 
eggs. 

One cup chocolate, one cup brown sugar, one-half cup 
milk, heat to boiling point and put into first mixture, then 
add the second. — Mrs. H. G. Post. 

TEA CAKE. 

Two eggs, two tablespoonsful of sugar, beaten together; 
three cups flour, one of milk, two teaspoonsful of baking 
powder; add last two tablespoonsful of melted butter. Bake 
half an hour. — Miss Corneal. 

WHITE CAKE. 

Two-thirds cup butter, two cups powdered sugar, two- 
thirds cup sweet milk, three light cups flour, two teaspoons 



ExciTANGE Cook Book. 73 

baking powder, beaten whites of eight eggs. Directions for 
preparing: Beat bntter to a cream; then add the sugar and 
beat thoroughly. Next stir in the milk, and lastly add iionr 
and beaten whites alternately — a little of each at a time. 
Bake one hour in a moderate oven. This is also excellent 
for any layer cake you may desire. — 3l7's. Shelby M. Cullom. 

BOSTON SPICE CAKE. 

Half a pound of butter, three-fourths pound of sugar, one 
pound of flour, four eggs, half pint of sweet milk, two tea- 
spoonsful of baking powder, one-half grated nutmeg, tea- 
spoonful of ground cloves and three of cinnamon, add one 
pound of raisins, if desired. — Ilrs. W. B. Miller. 

ANGEL FOOD CAKE. 

Wliites of eleven eggs, three-fourths of a pint of sugar, 
half a pint of flour, in which put one teaspoonful of cream 
of tartar; sift flour and cream of tartar together three times. 
Beat with a wire beater until it will not turn out of the bowl, 
sift in the sugar, beating all the time, then add the ^^g\ 
flavor with a teaspoonful of vanilla. Bake forty-five minutes. 

ROSE ANGEL FOOD. 

Make as above. Adding one teaspoonful of cake coloring. 

SUNSHINE CAKE. 

Make as Angel Food, only using the whites of seven eggs 
and the yolks of four. 

METROPOLITAN CAKE. 

White layers. Whites of six eggs, two cups of powdered 
sugar, two cups of flour, three-fourths cup of butter, one cup 
of corn starch, one cup of milk, teaspoonful of baking powder. 
This makes two layers. Fruit layers: Two cups of brown 
sugar, one cup of butter, one of milk, four eggs, three and a 
half cups of flour, two teaspoonsful of baking powder, one 
teaspoonful of nutmeg and cinnamon mixed, three cupsful of 



Exchange Cook Book. 



raipinB seeded and chopped, and dredged with flour. Bake 
in two layers in the same pans in which the white was baked. 
Put together with icing, alternating the fruit and white. 
Some persons bake only one thick layer of each cake, using 
large, square pans. Put together with icing. 

Another variety of this cake is made by using only one 
cup of raisins, one of currants and one of sliced citron. 

ORANG^E CAKE. 

Two eggs, one cup of sugar, one tablespoonful melted 
butter, half cup of milk, one and one-half cups of flour, 
two tea spoonsful baking powder, tablespoonful of orange 
juice, and a little of the grated rind. Mix in the order 
given; bake in a round jelly cake pan, split and fill with the 
orange cream. Orange cream: Put in a cup the grated rind 
of half and the juice of one orange, one tablespoonful of 
lemon juice, and fill with water. Strain and put on to boil; 
add one tablespoonful of corn starch wet in cold water, stir 
in the boiling juice and cook over hot water ten minutes. 
Beat the yolk of one egg with two heaping tablespoonsful of 
sugar, stir into the starch, add one teaspoonful of butter, re- 
move and cool. Fill the cake with the cream and frost. — 
Mrs. M. E. Harlon. 

CUSTARD CAKE. 

Use orange cake recipe; fill with one })int of milk, one cup 
of sugar, two tablespoonsful flour, two eggs, salt and flavor- 
ing. Boil until thick as cream; fill. 

CREAM PUFFS. 

Boil one-half pint of water and three tablespoonsful of 
butter together, stir in a cup and a half of flour while boiling. 
Let it cool and add half a teasjjoonful of soda and five well- 
beaten eggs, drop with a spoon on buttered tins, and bake 
twenty minutes. Fill them with the following: Put on to 



Exchange Cook Book. 75 

boil one pint of milk, beat together one cup of sugar, two- 
thirds cup of flour and two eggs, stir them into the boil- 
ing milk, boil together about one minute, stirring all the 
time; take off, add one teaspoonful of lemon and vanilla 
mixed. When cool fill the puffs. 

ANGEL FOOD JELLY CAKE. 

Make by Angel Food cake recipe. Bake in layers, and use 
any kind of jelly preferred. 

JELLY CAKE. 

The old-fashioned jelly cake was made with one cup of 
butter, two of sugar, three of flour, four eggs, and a cup of 
milk. It was baked either in thin layers with jelly between, 
or in a long pan, spread with jelly as soon as baked, and roll- 
ed while hot, sprinkled with powdered sugar. Now any cake 
preferred is used. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

Twelve eggs, the weight of ten eggs in sugar, and six in 
flour; leave out two of the yolks; teaspoonful of flavoring. 

DOUGH CAKE. 

One cup of butter, two of sugar, four of raised dough, 
three eggs, cup of raisins seeded and chopped, spice to taste. 
Put all together, except raisins. Mix till soft, with the hand. 
Let it rise, and when light, add the raisins and bake imme- 
diately. 

OLD-FASHIONED COMPOSITION CAKE. 

One and three-quarters pounds of flour, three-quarters of a 
pound of butter, one and a quarter pound of sugar, four eggs, 
a teaspoonful of soda and two of cream of tartar, pint of 
milk, tablespoonful of spices, one-fourth each of cloves, all- 
spices, nutmeg and cinnamon. One and a half pounds of 
raisins or currants. Mix as you would fruit cake. Bake 
about one hour. 



Exchange Cook Book. 



OLEY COOKS. 

At noon set to rise sufficient yeast to make when risen half 
a pint. At five or six o'clock warm three-fourths of a pint of 
milk, half a pound of sugar, fourth of a pound of butter, add 
one and a half pounds of flour, half a nutmeg grated, and 
lastly three eggs, well-beaten. Must not be kneaded, only 
mixed and beaten with a spoon; set in a warm place to rise. 
If very light at bed-time, push down with floured hand. At 
nine next day, make in small, round balls in your hand, 
placing a raisin in the center of each, and put to rise again 
in a warm place. About tw^o or three o'clock they will be 
ready to boil in very hot lard. Remove them carefully from 
the bread board with a floured knife, giving them a gentle 
roll to shape them; cook quickly. Roll in powdered sugar; 
elegant. — Mi-s. Elizabeth Brown. 

COCOANUT PUFFS. 

The whites of four eggs, half pound of sifted sugar, one 
grated cocoanut, stir together until stiff, then form into 
cakes and bake in a moderate oven, light brown. 

SNOW BALLS. 

Make a batter from any white cake recipe, bake in gem 
pans, when cold trim off all crust and make as round as pos- 
sible; stick each on a fork and dip in icing; drop grated 
cocoanut over them and let them dry on the forks, which 
you can do by putting them in a pan handles down and «akes 
projecting over the top of the pan. 

SHREWSBURY CAKES. 

One pound of flour, one pound of sugar, half pound of 
butter, three eggs; flavor with nutmeg. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

One-half cup of butter, two cups of sugar, four eggs, one 
cup of milk, two teaspoonsf ul of baking powder, half a nut- 



Exchange Cook Book 7*7 

meg, and flour to make stiff enough to roll out; fry. This 
recipe makes very nice cookies. 

HICKORYNUT JUMBLES. 

Two eggs, one cup of nuts, half pound of sugar, half pound 
of butter, half pound of flour; drop in tablespoonsful on 
buttered paper, and bake quickly. 

LITTLE CURRANT CAKES. 

Three eggs beaten separately, one cup butter, one cup 
sugar, one cup milk, three cups flour, four ounces currants, 
one-fourth nutmeg, two teaspoonsful baking powder, bake in 
gem pans. If preferred use a cupful of chopped raisins. 

SPICE NUTS. 

One-half pint of molasses, one pound of butter, two ounces 
of ginger, one-half pound of sugar, one teaspoonful of soda, 
one-eighth of spoon of cayenne pepper, one and one-half tea- 
spoonsful of allspice, two teaspoonsful of cinnamon, one-half 
teaspoonful of cloves, flour enough to make a batter so stiff 
that it w411 just drop from the spoon; drop on buttered pans 
and bake. 

NORAH'S GINGER BREAD. 

One cup of butter, one of sugar, two of molasses, one of 
sour milk, five cups of flour, three eggs, one teaspoonful of 
soda, one tablespoonf ul of ginger, two teaspoonsful of extract 
of lemon, or one lemon, yellow rind grated, and juice added. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

Two cups of sugar, two of flour, in which sift one tea- 
spoonful of baking powder, ten eggs, beat the yolks with the 
sugar, the whites to a thick froth, add flour to the sugar and 
yolks, then some of the whites, so continue until all are mix- 
ed; flavor with lemon or vanilla, one teaspoonful; excellent. 



Y8 Exchange Cook Book. 



Basti^y. 



All pastry should be made in a cool place and as quickly as 
possible. It should be mixed with ice Avater, on a marble 
slab, if you have one, rolled with a glass rolling pin, the 
shortening, whether lard or butter, should be fresh and cohl. 
Very little water should be used in the mixing. A quick 
oven is necessary for almost all kinds of pies. To keep the 
crust from being heavy on the bottom, brush it over with a 
little beaten white of egg. Brush over the outside top crust 
of pies with melted butter just before you i)ut them in the 
oven, when the pie is about ready to take from the oven, 
brush over the top with well-beaten white of egg, sift a little 
pow^dered sugar over it and return to the oven a few minutes 
to set the glaze; it must be carefully watched while glazing 
or it will burn. This is for fruit pies. For meat pies the 
top may be glazed with one yolk of egg and a tablespoonful 
milk mixed. You can also use the white for these pies, 
omitting the sugar. 

EPICUREAN PIE CRUST. 

Two cups of flour, one teaspoonful of baking powder, one 
cup of butter, or half of lard and half of butter, one-half 
cup of ice water, one egg. Sift flour and baking powder to- 
gether, cut up half the butter, or if you use half lard, all of 
that, mix with the flour, using a split spoon or a knife. Break 
the egg in a bowl and beat light, add the water, mix the flour 
with this, roll out, divide the butter left into three parts, cut 
one part into small pieces, dot them over the rolled dough, 
sprinkle lightly with flour, fold lengthwise, roll out again, 
proceed as before, until all the butter has been used. This is 
sufficient for two pies, upper and lower crusts. Pie crust 
can be kept in the refrigerator several days before it is baked. 



Exchange Cook Book. 



PASTRY. 

One pound of flour, one pound of shortening (two-thirds 
butter and one-third lard); wet sufficiently with cold water, 
and mix with a knife, stirring as little as possible. 

PUFF PASTE. 

One quart sifted flour, three-quarters of a pound good ice- 
cold butter, take half of it and cho]3 into the flour until it is 
very fine; then add enough cold water (ice- water is the best) 
to make a stiff dough. Roll out into a thin sheet and spread 
with one-third the remaining butter, then fold it up closely 
into a long roll, re-roll, then spread again; repeat this opera- 
tion until the butter is used. Do it all as quickly as possible. 
The quantity of butter may be increased or decreased to suit 
the taste, or one-half lard may be used instead of all butter. 

PASTRY FOR ONE PIE. 

One heaping cup of flour, one-half cup of butter and lard 
mixed. Mix quite stiff witli cold water, saltspoon of salt. 
Will make top and bottom crust. 

CHEESE STRAWS. 

May be made of any puff paste; rolled thin, cut in strips 
and dusted w^ith grated cheese and as peck of cayenne 
pepper. 

CHICKEN PIE. 

Boil or steam one chicken; season well with pepper and 
salt; remove all bones; take two cups of flour, one teaspoon 
baking powder; make a crust as for biscuit, with one cup of 
shortening. With half of the crust line a deep dish a little 
higher than the edge, put in the chicken, cover the top with 
the other half of the crust, cut one or more holes in the upper 
crust and bake about three-quarters of an hour. Glaze as 
already described. 



80 Exchange Cook Book. 

LEMON CREAM PIE. 

Into one cup of boiling water, stir one tablespoon of corn 
starch, which has been dissolved in cold water. Cream one 
cup of sugar, with one-third of a cup of butter, pour over 
them the hot starch. When quite cool add the juice and 
grated rind of one lemon, and one egg, well-beaten. Bake 
wdth one crust. 

NEW ORLEANS MINCE MEAT. 

Two ])Ounds of boiled beef chopped line, two pounds of 
suet chopped, two pounds of raisins seeded, two pounds of 
currants, one pound of citron, teaspoonful each of cloves, 
cinnamon, allspice, nutmeg, and half one of mace; two tea- 
spoonsful; mix and pack in an earthern jar. Pour a quart of 
brandy over the top and cover tightly. This will keej) all 
winter. When needed take out as much as you wish, add 
half as much chopped api)le as the mince meat you use, add 
to it a spoonful of vinegar, two of molasses, sugar to taste, 
a tablespoonful of melted butter, the juice of one orange, 
and of one lemon, the grated rind of half of each, and enough 
cider or water to thin it, if needed. I have estimated that 
one quart of mince meat was taken from the jar, so as to get 
the ])roportions correct. 

VIRGINIA POTATO PIE. 

Beat three eggs with a cup of sugar, cream one cup of 
butter, add the sugar and eggs and beat well; to two cups of 
mashed potatoes, add one pint of milk, mix this with the 
other ingredients, flavor with vanilla. Bake with only an 
under crust. 

LEMON BUTTER. 

Juice of three lemons, grated rind of one, six eggs, two 
cups of sugar, one of butter, cream butter and sugar, put them 
on the stove in a rice boiler, add the eggs well-beaten and the 



Exchange Cook Book. 8i 

lemons. Stir until thick, it must not boil. Will keep an 
indeiinite time. This makes very nice pies or pates, bakinpj 
the crust first, put the butter in the hot crust, set it in the 
oven to melt. 

PUMPKIN PIE. 

One quart of milk, four tablespoonfuls of butter, four eggs, 
a cup of sugar, one quart of boiled pumpkin, two tablespoon- 
fuls of molasses; flavor with one teaspoonful of nutmeg, cin- 
namon, and ginger each. Beat the eggs and sugar together, 
add the pumpkin, then the spices and molasses, then the 
milk. Line pie pans with pastry, fill and bake. Requires a 
very hot oven. 

ORANGE PIE. 

Take half the grated peel of one orange, the juice of two, 
add one cup of sugar, the beaten yolks of two eggs, one cup 
of milk, beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and stir 
in the last thing; bake with an under crust. 

LEMON PIE. 

The grated rind and juice of four lemons, half cup of but- 
ter, three cups of sugar, eight eggs, one pint of cream, cream 
together the butter and sugar, add the yolks, then the lemons, 
then the milk, lastly the whites beaten to a stiff froth; put in 
plates lined with puff paste, with no upper crust. 

CUSTAED PIE. 

Two eggs beaten with half a cup of sugar, add one pint of 
milk, a little salt, bake in a slow oven with only a bottom 
crust; flavor. 

FRUIT PIE. 

LTse epicurean pie crust, line the pan and fill with fruit of 
any kind already sweetened, the fruit may be stewed first if 
you prefer. Wet the pastry around the edges, cover with' 



82 Exchange Cook Book. 

the top crust in which you have made a few slits to let out 
the steam. A good way to prevent the juice running over in 
a fruit pie is to make a cornucopia of stiff letter paper, cut the 
pointed end off about an incli, and put this end in the slit in 
the pie, so that the cornucopia will remain upright and hold 
the juice, when the pie is baked remove tlie cornucopia and 
the juice will run back into the pie. 

PRESERVED FRUIT PIE. 

The crust for preserved fruit pies, should be baked before 
the fruit is put in, they may be (covered w^ith a meringue of 
sugar and white of egg, and tlien put in the oven to set the 
meringue, or they can be covered with sweetened whipped 
cream . 

STRAWBERRY SHORT-CAKE. 

Make a dough as soft as it can be rolled, of one pint of 
flour and one teaspoonful of baking powder sifted together, 
add half a teaspoonful of salt, chop up a heaping tablespoon- 
ful butter in the flour, mix with half a cup of milk or water. 
Divide the dough in two, roll one out about half an inch 
thick, spread with soft butter, then roll out the other half 
same size, place over the flrst one and bake in a greased pan. 
As soon as they are baked separate them, and when cold, put 
a thick layer of sweetened strawberries between the two 
crusts, sprinkle the upper crust with sugar. To be cut in 
slices and eaten with cream. Any other kind of berries or 
fruit may be used for short-cake — grated ])ineapple, grated 
cocoanut, and oranges sliced, are very nice. 

ANNIE'S PUDDING. 

One quart of sweet milk, nine eggs beaten separately, nine 
tablespoonfuls of flour, saltspoon of salt, bake three-quarters 
of an hour, or steam one hour. Serve hot with any kind of 
sauce. 



Exchange Cook Book. 83 



APPLE FRITTERS. 

Take three eggs, a quart of flour, a teaspoont'ul of salt and 
enough milk to make a stiff batter, two teaspoonfuls of baking 
powder, add one pint of sour apples chopped fine, fry in very 
hot lard. Wine sauce. 

APPLE SNOW. 

Steam a dozen juicy apples; pass the pulp through a sieve; 
ytir in half a cupful of granulated sugar, and a teaspoonf ul of 
extract of lemon. Beat the whites of six eggs to a stiff froth, 
and then add the apples and beat, adding two cups of powder- 
ed sugar; heap the "apple snow" on a large glass dish; add 
to it bits of currant or raspberry jelly. Very nice to fill 
tarts or pies, the crusts of which are already baked. 

CHOPPED APPLE PUDDING. 

Chop a pint of sour apples, grate a pint of bread crumbs, 
put a layer of apples in a pudding dish, sprinkle with sugar 
and a little cinnamon, then add a layer of bread crumbs and 
small pieces of butter; proceed with apples and bread until 
all are used; bake one hour. Serve with sauce, or cold with 
cream. Any fresh or canned fruit can be used instead of the 
apples. 

FRUIT ROLL. 

Make dough as for strawberry short-cake, roll it out about 
twic« as long as wide, spread with any kind of fresh, or 
canned fruit, roll up as tight at possible, cut the ends even, 
and either bake, or steam, about one hour; serve with sauce. 

APPLE DUMPLINGS. 

Make same dough as for strawberry short-cake, divide into 
twelve pieces, roll each one out separately, peel and core 
twelve medium-sized apples, fill the centers with sugar and 
grate a little nutmeg on each apple, wrap each one in dough, 



84 ExcHJLNGE Cook Book* 

bake one hour, or steam one hour and a quarter. Very nice 
made with whole, peeled, clingstone peaches.- Serve with 
any desired sauce. 

STEAMED PUDDING. 

Here is a cheap steamed pudding, that is very nice: One 
egg, one large spoon of butter, one-half cup of cold water, 
two large spoons of sugar, two cups of flour, salt, two tea- 
spoons of baking powder. You can use any fruit you like, 
or spice it. Will steam in one hour. — 3f7's. H. G. Po^t. 

FRUIT OR BERRY PUDDING. 

Make a batter of one cup of butter, two of sugar, three of 
flour, four eggs, and a cup of milk, one teaspoonful of baking 
powder, add one cup of fruit or berries of any kind, either 
fresh or canned, sprinkle a tablespoonful of flour over the 
fruit. Bake half an hour and serve with sauce. 

TRANSPARENT PUDDING. 

One-half pound butter, one-half pound powdered sugar 
creamed together, one-fourth nutmeg grated, eight ^gg,» 
beaten separately, flavor with vanilla, beat all together and 
bake in patty ))ans Avith an under crust of pufl" paste. To 1)e 
served cold. 

SWEET WAFERS. 

Cream two tablespoonfuls of sugar and one of butter to- 
gether, add two tablespoonfuls of flour, two eggs well beaten 
and half a pint of milk. Bake in a quick oven in little pie 
pans. Sprinkle with powdered sugar, ]^ut crab apple or 
other jelly between and fold over once. 

ENGLISH PLUM PUDDING. 

One pound brown sugar, flfteen eggs, whites and yolks 
beaten separately, half a cup of black molasses, two pounds 
chopped suet, two pounds bread-crumbs, the juice and a little 
of the grated rind of one orange and of one lemon, one table-: 



ExcHAi!«-GE Cook Book. 85 

spoonful of spices, ginger, cinnamon, allspice, and nutmeg, 
one-fourth of each; two ounces of sliced almonds, one and 
one-half pounds seeded raisins, one and one-half pounds cur- 
rants, one pound sliced citron. Fruit to he dredged with 
flour. Mix sugar, eggs, crumbs, suet and spices together, 
add molasses, orange and lemon juice, one wine-glass of wine 
and one of brandy, then add fruit and nuts. Steam in a 
buttered mold for six hours. Serve hot with rich sauce. Can 
be kept for months and steamed until hot whei: used. 

PUFF BATTER PUDDING. 

Mix one cup of Hour and a saltspoon of salt in one cup^ of 
cold milk. Heat in a double boiler one cup of milk, when 
scalding add the mixed milk and Hour, stir until it is thick, 
add one-half cup of butter; remove from the tire and when 
cold add four well-beaten eggs. To be either baked or steam- 
ed; either in cups or all in one. Serve hot with anj sauce 
preferred. 

8N()W DUMPLINGS. 

Have several apples pared and cored; wash a pint of rice, 
and roll the apples in it, so that the rice will adhere; wrap 
the apples in pieces of dough, continue until you use up the 
apples. Put a napkin in the steamer, and put in it the dump- 
lings; steam until done. Serve with cream and sauce. 

SUET STEAM PUDDING. 

One teacup chopped suet, one cup of raisins stoned and 
chopped fine, one teacup of molasses, one cup of milk, a little 
salt, one teaspoon of soda, three cups of Hour; steam three 
hours. This pudding is very nice with almost any other 
kind of fruit instead of raisins, if a juicy fruit like cherries 
is used add flour. 

STEAMED INDIAN PUDDING. 

Two quarts sweet milk, heated to boiling point. Stir in 
two cups meal mixed well with one tablespoon of flour. Re- 



86 Exchange Cook Book 

move from the fire, salt, and sweeten with molasses. Add 
one-half teaspoon ginger, one-half teaspoon cinnamon, stir in 
two cups of cold milk and steam three hours or more. 

GERMAN PUFFS. 

Ten eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately; nine table- 
spoonfuls 01 flour, one quart of milk, a little salt. Bake in 
muffin rings in a quick oven. — 3iiss Corneau. 

SAUCE. 

One cup of sugar, one large tablespoonful of butter mixed 
to a cream, beat in the yolk of an ^^^,\ one-half teacup of 
wine with same quantity of boiling water. Mix all and keep 
hot over tea kettle of hot water, When ready to serve stir 
in the beaten white of the egg. — Miss Corneas. 

A FRENCH FRITTER BATTER. 

Put a heaping cupful of flour into a bowl, add two yolks 
of eggs, a tablespoonful of olive oil, and one or two spoons 
of lemon juice. Stir it well, adding water enough to give it 
the thickness of ordinary batter. This may be used at once, 
but can be put away for a day or so. Before cooking stir in 
the whites of two eggs beaten to a very stiff froth. Add a 
pint of fruit cut in small pieces. Makes a delicious fritter. 
When done, sprinkle sugar over the tops. 

JAPANESE FRITTERS. 

A Japanese fritter is made precisely the same as a cream 
fritter from a cream-puff paste fried. Put one-half a pint of 
milk, and two ounces of butter on to boil, then add four 
ounces of flour; stir until you have a thick paste; take from 
the fire and add, one at a time, four eggs, mixing and beat- 
ing each before the other is added; drop this mixture by tea- 
spoonfuls into hot fat. Serve with powdered sugar or with 
a sauce. 



Exchange Cook Book. *' 



PRESERVE PUFFS. 

Roll out very thin some puff paste, cut in round pieces, lay 
frnit iam over," wet the edges with the white of an egg, cover 
with another round piece rolled thinner thar. the lower one. 
press the edges together, then bake fifteen nnnutes m a very 
hot oven. 

FIG PUDDING. 

Chop together half pound of tigs, one cup suet, half cup 
bread crumbs, one tablespoonful of sugar, three eggs, one 
cup milk, one glass of wine and flour to make a batter dough. 
Steam two hours. 

BUTTER AND SUGAR SAUCE. 

One cup of butter, two cups of powdered sugar. Cream 
together until very light. Flavor with vanilla and emou 
juice mixed, or with wine^ To be served piled, as ,t falls 
from the spoon, not smooth. 

YELLOW SAUCE FOR PUDDINGS. 

One cup of sugar, half one of butter, the yolk of one egg. 
all beaten to a cream, add half a cup of sherry wure. put m 
a rice boiler on the back of the stove for halt an hour. 

CLEAR SAUCE. 

Two cups of granulated sugar, one-third of a cup of water 
the yellow rind and juice of one lemon. Bo, together unttl 
the syrup thickens. Strain out the lemon niid. 

CREAM SAUCE. 

One cup of milk, one of sugar, three teaspoons of corn_ 
starch-, boil it a few minutes, then add one tablespoon ot 
butter and two of brandy. 

WINE SAUCE. 

Three cups of sugar, one of butter and one of wine; set 
the cup in boiling water for one hour. 



88 Exchange Cook Book. 

STRAWBEEEY SAUCE 

One-half cup of butter, one cup of sugar, the beaten white 
of an egg, one cup of strawberries, mashed. Rub butter 
and sugar to a cream; add the beaten white of the egg, and 
the strawberries thoroughly mashed. — 31) s. Bohert Gordon 
liar die, Boston. 

RUM SAUCE FOR ICE CREAM. 

Have a handsome mould of cream, such as a melon, 
bunch of asparagus or individual mould. Serve with any 
of these a good spoonful of rum sauce, made as follows: 
Heat a cupful of sugar with a very little water in a skillet, 
cooking until it nearly caramel. Take off and add a liberal 
amount of rum, served cold with the cream, for dinner or 
lunches.— 3/rs. T. S. Wood. 

CREAM SAUCE. 

Put a teaspoonful of butter in a sauce pan on the stove, 
add a teaspoonful of flour, stirring well, pour over this a cup 
of cream, add a pinch of salt, a heaping tablespoonful of 
sugar, boil until the flour is cooked, about two minutes; take 
off the stove and add a glass of wine. Very nice for boiled 
rice, apple dumpling or plain pudding. 

AN OLDFASHIONED EGG SAUCE. 

To a half-cup of butter, add one of sugar, cream together; 
beat well the whites of three and the yolks of two eggs, add 
to the butter and sugar; grate in a fourth of a nutmeg, boil 
one cup of wine and j^our over the other ingredients; put in 
a double boiler on the stove, let it boil two minutes, stirring- 
all the time. Good for any pudding or fritters. 

BOILED CUSTARD. 

One quart of milk, put in the rice boiler, and when almost 
boiling add the yolks of six eggs, which have been well 
beaten with four tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar; add a 



Exchange Cook Book 89 

teaspoonful of corn starch mixed with a little cold milk. Let 
it thicken while you stir it all the time it is on the fire, and 
while it cools. As soon as it is thick add a teaspoonful of 
vanilla, when cool pour into cups. If you prefer you can 
beat the eggs well and stir in. 

PINEAPPLE JELLY. 

Juice of one lemon and two oranges, one-third box gela- 
tine, one cup of sugar, one can grated pineapple, whites of 
three eggs. Stir lemon and orange juice together with the 
sugar, add gelatine dissolved in a little cold Avater, and one 
pint of boiling water. Set out to cool a little, then add pine- 
apple and beaten whites. Serve with whipped cream. If the 
oranges are large, use a little more gelatine. 

GELATINE CUSTARD. 

One cup of powdered sugar, four eggs beaten together 
until very light, have a pint of milk heated in the rice boiler 
until almost boiling, pour it over the eggs and sugar, beating 
hard all the time. Soak two tablespoonf uls of gelatine in a 
cup of milk, pour into the custard, let all come to a boil in 
the rice boiler; flavor and pour into molds. 

PRUNE JELLY. 

Stew one pound of prunes until soft, strain the juice in 
which they were boiled and put in a double boiler, adding 
half a cup of sugar and one ounce of gelatine, that; has been 
soaked until soft. Let this simmer, add the prunes from 
which you have removed the seed; cook ten minutes. Pour 
into molds, set upon ice. When cold serve with cream. 

JUDGE PETERS. 

To one box of gelatine dissolved in one-half pint of cold 
water, add one pint of boiling water, two cups of sugar, and 
the juice of three lemons, oranges in layers, three bananas 
sliced, six custard nuts cut in thin slices, five figs, eight sugar 



90 Exchange Cook Book. 

dates (or plain). Strain the jelly over the fruit and cool. 
Serve with whipped cream. Can fix this to suit yourself. 
Put in any fruit you like, and cool in any form. — Mrti. H. 
G. Post. 

A GOOD LEMON JELLY. 

Soak one package of gelatine in half a pint of cold water 
for two hours or more. Pour on this one quart of boiling 
water, and add a pint of sugar, put in a double boiler, and 
stir until the sugar and gelatine are dissolved; then add half 
a pint of lemon juice, and strain. Turn into molds. 

JELLY OF ORANG^ES. 

Make this jelly the same as leniun, except that a pint and 
a half of boiling water is to be used, besides one pint of 
orange-juice. When the oi'anges are not sour, add the juice 
of one lemon. 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 

Line a glass dish with sponge cake. Beat one pint sweet 
cream and the whites of three eggs to a stiif froth; sweeten 
the cream to taste; flavor with teaspoonful of vanilla, and 
mix the cream and egg froth; then pour over the cake the 
cream and froth of eggs. Can be served at once, but will 
keep several hours. 

Another way to make charlotte russe is as above, except 
to dissolve two tablespoonsful of gelatine in half cup of milk 
sweetened with tablespoonful of sugar, and add this to the 
cream and eggs, after they are frothed. 

TAPIOCA JELLY. 

Soak one cup of tapioca in a quart of watei- all night, in 
the morning put it in a double boiler and let it cook for 
fifteen minutes, stirring constantly. Then sweeten (two 
tablespoonfuls of sugar are generally used, but in this suit 
your own taste), saltspoonful of salt, teaspoonful of flavor. 
Pour in a glass dish to cool. ' 



Exchange Cook Book. 91 



This jelly is often made by using a layer of the jelly, then 
one of either canned or fresh fruit sweetened, then another 
layer ^>f jelly. When cold, serve; either with or without 
cream. 

This recipe can also be used, and instead of boiling, bake 
as a pudding. A cup of fruit mixed through it is an improve- 
ment. Bake slowly two hours. 

CUCUMBER PICKLES. 

Three gallons soft water, one gallon cider vinegar, two 
quarts salt. Wash your cucumbers and put them in this 
brine. When you wish to use them freshen them by soaking 
in cold water. Put them in a kettle, cover with w^eak vine- 
gar, put grape leaves over and scald until green. Then put 
the pickles and spices in jars and cover with oood strong 
cold vinegar. For one gallon of vinegar mix one cup white 
mustard seed, one ounce stick cinnamon, one teaspoonful 
whole cloves, two red peppers, a few small onions, one pint of 
sugar, one teaspoon of mace and a few pieces of horseradish. 
— Mrs. 2. D. Logan. 

SMALL WHITE ONIONS. 

Take small silver onions and peel them, lay them in salt 
water for one day, then drain them and put them in bottles; 
boil mace, whole red peppers and vinegar together, let it 
cool and pour over the pickles. 

GREEN TOMATO PICKLES. 

Half bushel green tomatoes thinly sliced wnth skins on, 
and laid in jars for twenty-four hours, with salt between 
each layer, squeeze out all salt water. Slice eighteen large 
onions, half a pint white mustard seed, one ounce of black 
pepper, one ounce allspice, one ounce cloves, mixed well to- 
gether, then put into a preserving kettle a layer of tomatoes, 



92 Exchange Cook Book. 

onions and spice, till the vessel is within two inches of being 
full, and cover them with good vinegar, and let them stew 
gently for t^vo hours. 

SMALL CUCUMBERS. 

Wash small cucumbers and drop them in a jar containing 
a gallon of strong vinegar, a cup of salt, two tablespoonfuls 
of white mustard seed, the same of grated or sliced horse- 
radish, and the same of pickle spices mixed, and a few pods 
of red pepper; stir well. Keep the jar covered closely. 
Onions, not too large, may be pickled this way. May be 
used in a week or ten days. 

MANGOES, 

Select green cantaloupes about the size of a large orange, 
cut a slit in the side, and with a teaspoon take out the seed. 
Make a brine that will float an egg, put the melons in this, 
cover, and put on a weight that Avill keej) them under the 
brine, in four or five days, or you can wait longer, take them 
out of the brine and soak them twenty-four hours in fresh 
water. Take some young beans, very small cucumbers, small 
silver onions peeled, a few very small red peppers, and some 
chopped cabbage; also, ground s])ices — mace, allspice, cin- 
namon and cloves — white mustard seed and celery seed. Use 
these in the proportions you desire; pour boiling, salted vine- 
gar over them, as soon as cold squeeze them out of the vine- 
gar and till the mangoes tightly, sew up and put in a stone 
jar; heat to scalding, enough vinegar to cover them, in which 
put to every gallon, one pint of sugar and half a cuj) of the 
mixed spices for pickles that you can buy in any groceiy 
store. Pour this boiling hot over the mangoes, })our off and 
heat and pour over again two days in succession, then put a 
weight on them so they will be under the vinegar, cover the 
jar, tie a paper over that, and they will keep for years. 
" Green tomatoes, large cucumbers and large peaches can be 
used as mangoes and stuffed like the foregoing recipe. 



Exchange Cook Book. 93 

PICCADILLI PICKLES. 

One head cabbage, one dozen ciu-umbers, one dozen green 
peppers, one dozen white onions, one-half peck of green toma- 
toes, chopped tine; one-half cup of mixed spices, one-fourth 
pound of mustard seed, one ]>int of sugar and one cup of salt. 
Let cook two hours. 

CHOPPED PICKLES. 

One pint each of green tomatoes, cabbage, cucumbers and 
onions, chop all up line; salt well, and stand over night, 
drain it, add pepper, horseradish, white mustard seed, half 
pint of sugar; mix well, fill the jar, and cover with vinegar. 

CUCUMBER PICKLES. 

Wash your cucumbers, and place them in stone jars. To 
every gallon of vinegar add one-half teacup of salt, one 
ounce of ginger root, one ounce of allsj^ice, one ounce of 
cloves, one ounce of cinnamon, one ounce of red pepper. 
Boil the vinegar and spices together for three mornings, and 
pour over the pickles hot. Cover them closely; can be used 
in three days. 

PICKLED WALNUTS. 

Take green walnuts, about half grown, but as long as you 
can stick a pin through them they w^ill do; make a brine that 
W'ill float an egg, put the walnuts in, keep them weighted 
under for a week. Make another brine and keep them in 
that for a week, then take out the walnuts wash them and 
wipe on a coarse cloth, let them soak in fresh water for two 
days; then boil them in weak vinegar, let them stay in it a 
week. Boil enough strong vinegar to cover the walnuts, put 
in it (me-half cup of spices to the gallon. Put the walnuts 
in a jar, pour this vinegar over while scalding hot. Weight 
down and cover tightly. 



94 Exchange Cook Book. 

WATERMELON RIND PICKLES. 

Boil ten pounds of watermelon rind, peeled and sliced, in 
enough water to cover it, put a cup of salt in the water, boil 
half an hour, take out rinds and soak in clear water fifteen 
minutes. Drain the rinds, put them in a preserving kettle 
and cover with vinegar, take out the rinds and measure the 
vinegar. To every quart add three pounds of sugar and half 
a cup of cinnamon, cloves, allspice and raisins, one-fourth of 
each; let all boil up, add the rind and boil for fifteen min- 
utes, take out the rind and put into jars, add two more pounds 
of sugar for each quart; boil half an hour or longer until 
thick, pour over fruit, and seal. Canteloupes can be used 
instead of watermelon rinds. Sweet apples are very nice 
pickled by this recipe. 

PICKLED PEACHES. 

Remove skins by throwing the peaches into boiling water, 
take out with a skimmer and put into a pan of cold water, 
proceed in this way until all you wish to pickle have been 
scalded. The skins will slip off easily. Take sufficient vin- 
egar to cover all the peaches you intend to pickle. For every 
quart, take four pounds of sugar, and three teaspoonfuls of 
spices, one each of cloves, cinnamon, and allspice tied in a 
bag. Boil and skim the syrup, add the fruit, cooking about 
fifteen minutes, skim out the fruit and put into stone jars. 
Boil syrup ten minutes longer, pour on the fruit. Next 
morning pour off the syrup, boil and pour over the fruit. 
Repeat for three mornings, if too much syrup boil down; if 
not enough, add more vinegar. This recipe can be used for 
any other fruit — crabapples, especially. 

WALNUT CATSUP. 

Take the walnuts already pickled, wash them; to every 
quart add one pint of the vinegar of the pickles and one pint 
of the juice and pulp of tomatoes, one teaspoonful each of 



Exchange Cook Book. 95 

ground alls])ice and cloves, one large, red pepper, boil all 
together, strain through coarse cheese-cloth, squeezing the 
bag; bottle. Will keep for years. 

MUSHROOM CATSUP. 

Take either fresh or canned button mushrooms, grate in 
the rotary grater. To every quart add one pint of vinegar, 
two tablespoonfuls of salt and one-fourth teaspoonful of 
mace; boil ten minutes. Bottle and seal. 

RED PEPPER CATSUP. 

Put in a ])orcelain lined kettle one gallon red, bell peppers, 
seeded, one tables|)oonful of each of the following spices, mace, 
allspice and cloves, slice up four large onions and mix with 
them. Now cover with good vinegar and set it on the stove 
to boil until the peppers will mash up readily. Lift the kettle 
oif, cover it up and set it away for the contents to get cool. 
When cool pour part into a sieve (I use an ordinary sifter for 
the purpose), and rub them through with a spoon until noth- 
ing is left in the sieve but skins and seeds. Throw those 
aside and repeat until all has been rubbed through. The 
catsup is now complete. Bottle and cork tight. 

CHILLI SAUCE. 

Six dozen tomatoes, three dozen bell peppers, two dozen 
large, white onions, twenty-four cups of vinegar, twenty-four 
tablespoonfuls of brown sugar, twelve teaspoonfuls of ground 
ginger, twelve of cinnamon, twelve of cloves, twelve table- 
spoonfuls of salt. Chop all fine and boil two hours. 

CUCUMBER CATSUP. 

Peel three dozen large cucumbers and three white onions, 
grate to a pulp; drain through a sieve several hours; add to 
the pulp salt, red pepper, mustard seed and good vinegar. 
Seal up in bottles. 



f)6 Exchange Cook Book. 

TOMATO CATSUP. 

One peck of peeled tomatoes, four tablespoonfuls of salt, 
four of brcwn sugar, quart of sliced onions, six pods of red 
pepper, two tablespoonfuls of ground spices mixed, boil until 
tomatoes and onions are soft, strain through a sieve, and to 
every gallon add one pint of vinegar, boil until as thick as 
you wish it. Bottle hot and seal. 

GRAPE CATSUP. 

To one gallon of grapes, boiled and strained through a 
sieve, take three pounds of sugar, a pint of vinegar, one table- 
spoonful of cloves, one of allspice, and one cf cinnamon. 
Boil fifteen minutes, bottle and seal. Nice with cold meats. 

Currant catsup can be made by the same recipe, also plum 
and cherrv. 



Br^ESEP^YES. 



All fruit for preserves should be ripe, but not over-ripe. 
Apples, pears and quinces, as soon as pared should be thrown 
in cold water to j^revent their getting discolored. Apples, 
quinces, crabapples, peaches and pears must be boiled in clear 
water first until tender. Then make a syrup, using as much 
sugar as the fruit weighed before boiling, and the water in 
which it was boiled. As soon as the syrup is a little thick 
put in the fruit and let it boil gently for a while, so that the 
fruit does not break. Then skim out the fruit, put it in self- 
sealing jars. Boil the syrup down till thick, fill the jars with 
it and seal them. For berries and other small fruits the pro- 
cess is the same, excepting that they need not be boiled in 
clear water first. For watermelon rind and citron preserves 
follow the same directions, excepting that the syrup should be 
made of fresh water — notthcAvater in which the rinds have been 



Exchange Cook Book. 



boiled, and the syrup should be flavored with gmger and 
lemon juice. I always cut the lemons in slices, removing 
the seeds, and boil until tender in a separate saucepan, pour- 
ing the juice in the syrup and adding the slices of lemons to 
the rinds. 

MARMALADES AND JAMS. 

After the fruit is prepared by being pared, cored and 
sliced, if the larger fruits, and hulled if berries, weight it. 
Boil tlie fruit with water until it is reduced to a smooth con- 
sistency, then add the sugar, a pound of sugar to a pound of 
fruit, if the fruit is tart; if it is very sweet a little less sugar. 
Boil it a little more. Try it by letting a little cool m a 
saucer; if it is quite stiff it is done. The fruit must be con- 
stantly stirred, particularly after the sugar is added. The 
amount you boil it down must depend on your taste. Some 
people like their marmalade so stiff that it can be turned out, 
others like it thinner. This is the only difference between 
marmalade and jam, the first is the firmer. Quince marmal- 
ade is better if apples are added in the proportion of one 
part of quinces to two parts of apples. Perhaps it is a mis- 
nomer to call this quince marmalade, but the flavor of the 
quinces is so strong it is really better than if made without 
apples. 

ORANGE MARMALADE. 

For six pounds of oranges take six pounds of sugar to 
every pound of sugar take half a pint of water; mix sugar 
and water together and boil to a thick syrup, skimming care- 
fully. Rub the oranges with a damp cloth, then grate the 
yellow rind from one-third of the oranges, pour boiling 
water over this grate so it will not harden— take the orange 
skins from which the rind has been grated, put in cold water, 
let them boil until the skins are very tender. When the 
skins are soft drain them carefully and scrape all the stringy 
skins from the inside; cut into strips and put them to boil in 



98 ExcHAXGE Cook Book. 

the syrup. Divide the oranges into sections, removing the 
seeds and every particle of the white inner skin, and also as 
much as possible the skin of each section, saving only the 
pulp. This must be done over a bowl so as to save all the 
juice, add the grated rind, the pulp and the juice to the 
syrup, boil together twenty minutes or until it jellies. Put 
into jelly glasses and seal. 

RED RASPBERRY JAM. 

Allow one pint of currant juice to every two quarts of 
raspberries. Boil the berries and juice together, and when 
somewhat reduced add the sugar, which has already been 
weighed, a pound of sugar for every pound of berries, and 
the same for every pint of currant juice. Stir constantly 
and boil until quite thick. 

THE BEST WAY TO MAKE JELLIES. 

Apples, quinces, crabapples and plums require to be cook- 
ed with a good deal of water until soft. Currants and all 
sorts of berries need only a little water, or perhaps, if crush- 
ed, not any. Boil until the fruit is crushed, then pat in 
canton flannel jelly bags, and let drip. After all the juice 
lias dripped out that will, put another crock under, and 
squeeze out every particle. Keep these two separate. Now 
bring the juice to a boil, and while hot seal in self-sealing 
jars. Put it away and let it stand for three or four days. It 
will keep any length of time since it is sealed. When you 
wish to make it you will find a thick sediment in the bottom 
composed of particles so tine that no amount of straining 
w^ould remove it. Now pour off the juice very carefully, not 
disturbing the sediment. Measure the juice, and to each cup- 
ful allow a cupful of sugar. Mix tooether and boil until it 
jellies, skimming all the time. When done, pour into 
glasses. When entirely cold, seal either with a brandy 
paper and then <>ne dipped in white of egg, or melt parafine 
and entirely cover the surface of the jelly with it. This 
method makes beautifully clear jelly. 



ExcHAXGE Cook Book. 99 



IGES. 



If you liave not nn i(;e cream freezer buy one just as soon 
as you can. If you use ices and ice cream at all it will soon pay 
for itself, and if you do not often use them it is time to be- 
ffin, for in this climate where the summers are so hot they 
are a very delightful luxury, and at the same time are inex- 
pensive. Twenty pounds of ice will freeze and pack a gallon 
of ice cream. Eight or ten lemons will make from three 
quarts to a gallon of ice, according to their acidity. All the 
fruit juices make delightful and refreshing ices at very little 
expense. But besides this there is no dessert easier to make 
than any sort of ice. Those who are not in the habit of 
making ices seem to think that the labor of freezing is very 
great, but since the patent freezers have been invented the 
labor has been reduced to a minimum, and even a child could 
freeze a gallon of cream in about ten minutes with very lit- 
tle exertion. Cracking the ice and packing are the most dif- 
ficult parts, but they are not at all hard and any one can do 
it. First see that the cream or fruit juice you wish to freeze 
is ready to go into the freezer. Then examine the freezer. 
Put in the clapper and attach the crank, and see that it all 
works easily; if not oil it, using very little oil, and carefully 
wiping the cogs, so as to make sure that none of the oil can 
get into the freezer. Take about ten pounds of ice, if you 
w-ish to freeze a gallon, put it in a strong sack, and pound it 
very fine with a large wooden mallet. Now pour the ice into 
a large pan, and thoroughly mix with about one-third as 
much salt as you have ice. Meanwhile have the cream or 
fruit juice poured in the freezer, put in the clapper, cover 
and attach the crank. With a ladle put the salt and ice 
around, and shake the freezer to pack it down. Now turn 



100 ExcHAXGE Cook Book, 

the crank slowly for the first five or six minutes, and faster 
afterwards. At the end of ten or fifteen minutes your cream 
will be frozen. When it is hard frozen remove the clapper 
and crank, being very careful not to get any salt in the 
freezer. Beat the cream thoroughly with a silver spoon for 
a short time. Cover and cork up the hole. Pour off the 
salt water out of the hole in the side. Crack more ice, add 
salt, and pack as before. Cover the freezer with newspapers 
and a thick cloth, and set it aside to "'ripen'" as confectioners 
say. It will keep for four or five hours without repacking 
and improves with keeping. If it is to be used in the ijourse 
of half an hour or an hour it is unnecessary to repack it at 
all. To freeze ice cream in forms one must have molds for 
the purpose. Melon-shaped puddings moulds will answer. 
After the cream is frozen, dip the mold in cold water and 
then fill it solidly with the cream or ice, [)acking it down. 
Put a strip of cloth dipped in melted butter or parafine 
around the edge of the lid to prevent salt working in, and 
pack the mold firmly around with cracked ice and salt. Let 
it remain an hour or more. When ready to serve dip the 
mold in hot water an instant and then remove the cover and 
turn the ice out on a dish. It looks very pretty if surrounded 
with whipped cream, dotted over with candied cherries. 

PLAIN VANILLA ICE CKEAM. 

Like many another delicious thing this is very simple. 
Sweeten the cream to taste, usually about one-half [)int of 
sugar to a quart of cream. Flavor with vanilla and freeze. 
The freezer whips the cream so it is unnecessary to wdiip it 
first. The addition of two whites of eggs well beaten just 
before packing is an improvement. Sweeten them and put 
them in the freezer, then turn the crank a few times to mix 
them with the cream. 



Exchange Cook Book. 101 

FRUIT ICE CREAM. 

All fruit ice creams are made in the same way, so it is un- 
necessary to give special directions for the different fruits. 
Pare or hull the fruit to be used, and add sugar enough to 
sweeten it. Let it stand with the sugar for some time, then 
crush it with a silver spoon or with your hand. Freeze the 
cream according to the directions just given, and when it is 
half frozen add the sweetened and crushed fruit in the pro- 
portions of one quart of fruit to two of cream. 'J'hese pro- 
portions are not absolutely fixed. I have made delicious 
creams, using equal quantities of fruit and cream. Freeze 
until firm. 

CARAMEL ICE CREAM. 

One pint of milk thickened with two teaspoonfuls of flour 
mixed very smooth, two pints of sugar melted and slightly 
burned. Bring the milk to a boil to cook the flour, then 
pour into it the browned sugar, beating slowly. Let cool, 
add one quart of cream and freeze. 

FROZEN CUSTARD. 

To each quart of milk allow the yolks of four eggs and 
one half pint of sugar. Beat the yolks to a cream with the 
sugar. Scald the milk, and when about to boil pour it over 
the eggs, stirring constantly. Return to the stove in a 
double boiler and cook until it thickens, but not a 
moment longer. Let it cool; flavor with vanilla and freeze. 
The beaten whites of the eggs (sweetened) may be added 
when the custard is half frozen, if desired. 

NESSELRODE PUDDING. 

Prepare one-half pint of shelled almonds, one pint of chest- 
nuts, one-half pint of grated pineapple, one-half pound of 
candie<l fruit, the yolks of eight eggs, one pint of cream, 
one pint of water, and if desired one wine glass of mara- 
chino or some sort of wine. Boil chestnuts until soft, re- 



10-2 ExoHAXGK Cook Book. 

move shells and skins, pound them, and press through a 
colander blanch and pound the almonds. Chop the fruit 
A'ery fine. Boil the sugar and water together until it is a 
thick syrup, while still boiling hot, but removed from the 
fire, stir in the yolks of eggs, well beaten. Beat until it 
thickens; add the cream, chestnuts and almonds, an'd wine or 
iiavoring. Freeze until partly set, then stir in the candied 
fruit and grated pineapple. Freeze like ice cream and mold. 

A NEW ICE CREAM. 

Select small cantaloupes or nutmeg melons, one to each two 
persons you wish to serve. Cut them in half, remove the 
seeds, and with a silver spoon scrape out the soft pulp, meas- 
ure it and sweeten it. Freeze twice as much sweetened 
cream as you have melon pulp; when it is half frozen add the 
pulp. Freeze very hard. Serve it in rounded pieces, cut 
out with the spoon each in one-half of the melon rind which 
has been saved. 

LP]M()N ICE. 

To one quart of water add the juice of four lemons. If 
they are not very juicy use five. Sweeten with about a pint 
and a quarter of sugar, but taste it to be sure it is right. 
When half frozen add whites of two eggs well beaten. 
Freeze hard and pack. 

ORANGE ICE. 

The juice of six oranges, the grated rind of two, the juice 
of two lemons, one quart of w^ater, sugar to taste. Add two 
whites of eggs when half frozen. 

STRAWBERRY WATER ICE. 

Hull two quarts of strawberries, crush them, add one 
quart of water to them, strain through a jelly bag. To this 
juice add the juice of two lemons. Sweeten to taste, as 
fruits vary so much in acidity that it is almost impossible to 



Exchange Cook Book:. '"^ 



,H-e a fixed rule. Freeze, and when half f>-°-». ^^^ ^l 
well beaten whites of two eggs. Freeze until ha.d and 
;ren pacl., Raspberries, strawberries and currants make 
beautiful water ices made according to these dn-ections. 

PINEAPPLE ICE. 

One-half can of grated pineapple, the juice of five lemons 
and of three oranges, three pints of water. Sweeten to ta=tc 
and when frozen add whites of two eggs well beaten. 

SNOW ICE. 

One pint of lemon juice, one quart of water one quart of 
sugar. Boil the sugar and water to a syrup, skimming a. i 
cooks. Let it cool and add the lemon juice. Freeze, and 
when frozen add the well beaten whites of hve eggs. Ihis 
is a very beautiful, pure white ice. Try it. 



©ANDY. 

So much has been written about candy made from confec- 
tioners' sugar, that it seems unnecessary to repeat the direc- 
uons; however, I give them. In one glass put ^he w^^^ -^ 
an egg, in another the same quantity of water. Mix them 
together in a bowl and sift in confectioners' sugar stirring 
constantly. When it gets as stiff as dough, knead it; he 
\„„re you work it the better it will be. Divide mto thee 
parts: flavor one with vanilla, and make it pink; anotl,er 
with lemon, and a third flavor with vaniHa and color «ith 
.rated chocolate. Put chopped nuts in some, cocoanu m 
:ome Make some into balls with English walnuts on either 
side ' In short, form into any shape your fancy suggests 
This is one sort of foundation candy, and is very nice; but 1 
think the cooked is nicer. It is easier io make it with some 



104 ExcHAN(iE Cook Book. 

glucose, if you cook it. Glucose is perfectly harmless, but 
not quite so sweet as sugar. It is a thick clear syrup, but it 
cau be omitted if objected to. In a saucepan put two cups 
of granulated sugar, two heaping tablespoonfuls of glucose 
and a third of a cup of water. Boil; trying it constantly in 
water. When it will form in a soft ball in the water it is 
done. Pour into a bowl and let it cool. When luke-warm, 
beat it until it thickens; when it grows quite stiff knead it 
like dough. This fondant may be kept for a long time, and 
is the foundation of all creams. 

For cream dates put a strip in the split date, where the 
seed was. Make a ball of it with a walnut kernel on each 
side for cream walnuts. 

Chop nuts and candied fruit together, mix with the founda- 
tion candy and make into balls. 

For cream chocolate, make into balls, let them harden. 
Grate one-half cake of Baker's chocolate, put it in a cup and 
in a pan of boiling water on the stove. Add a piece of para- 
hne the size of a hazel nut, and a few drops of vanilla. When 
the chocolate melts drop in the balls, one at a time, lift them 
out and let them harden on parafine paper. 

There are many other Avays of using the fondant which iji- 
genuity will suggest. 

PKALINES OR CREAMED WALNUTS. 

Pick out a cupful of pecan or English walnut kernels. Put 
a cupful of granulated sugar, and one-fourth of a cup of 
water in a saucepan on the stove. Boil until it will drop 
into a soft ball in water. Then remove from the lire and let 
it cool a little. Flavor with vanilla, add the nuts, and stir 
until the candy sugars, and each nut is coated, 

STUFFED DATES. 

Select nice, fresh dates. Cut open down one side and re- 
move seeds. Fill the cavities with almond kernels. Roll 
each date in powdered sugar. 



Exchange Cook Book. 



106 



CRYSTALIZED ORANGES AND GRAPES. 

Divide Tanagavine oranges iu .e.tions. Carefully remove 
the seeds Fasten one section at each end ot a long thread, 
until you have all you want Make a syrup by boilmg gran- 
ulated sugar and a little water to the point where .t wd, torm 
threads, Then dip two of the orange sections m and suspend 
over a stick on two chairs to harden. Proceed untU all are 
done. When hard cut off the threads. The grapes^ are 
dropped in and lifted out with a spoon on to a buttered d.sh 
Piled up on a cut-glass dish these fruits make a beautiful 
addition to any table. 

WHITE SUGAR CANDY. 

Two cups of light-brown sugar, one tablespoonful of butter, 
the same of vinegar, and one-third cup of water. Bo.l till it 
lirdens in water. Flavor with vanilla. Put ui a buttered 
platter to cool. Pull till white. 

WALNUT CANDY. 

Put walnut kernels in a thin layer on a buttered plate. 
Cover with candy made as above, without pulling Cut into 
squares when cool. Or cook the candy only til it forms a 
s'oft ball, then remove from the tire, stir for a few -nu es 
and, just before it sugars, pour over the nuts. Good with 
any nuts. 

CARAMELS. 

One cup of molasses, two cups brown sugar, one-half cake 
of chocolate grated tine, small piece of butter, flavor with 
vanilla. -3/r6-. Wm. A. Turney. 



106 Exchange Cook Book. 



Beyei^ages. 



COFFEE. 

In the first place be sure that your coffee is ot good quality. 
That which is usually considered the best is a mixture of two- 
thirds of Java and one-third of Mocha. On the whole it is 
probably cheaper and more satisfactory to buy the coffee 
already browned as the roasters brown it more evenly than 
it can be done in an oven, but if you buy it roasted you 
must be very careful to put it immediately in a receptacle 
with a tight fitting cover, as it loses its strength very quickly 
when roasted. It is better to grind it each time just before 
making it. After good coffee is procured to insure a fragrant 
strong drink, it is necessary to get one idea firmly im- 
pressed on your mind and that is that the oil which produces 
the aroma of coffee is very volatile, and that it must be re- 
tained in the liquid and not sent into the attic. If you can 
smell the coffee boiling all over the house it is certain there 
won't be much fragrance left in the pot. Coffee, which is 
boiled for any length of time is tasteless. It should onlv be 
allowed to boil one minute, if boiled at all. On this account 
filtered coffee is much easier to make, but as many people 
prefer it to be boiled I will first give directions for boiling: 
Allow one heaping tablespoonful of ground coffee to each 
half pint of water. Mix part of an egg and its shell witli 
the ground coffee, pour the water on it boiling. Cover the 
pot and let it boil one minute. Let it stand where it will 
keep warm without boiling, for several minutes, to settle. 

To make filtered coffee you must have a Freneh coffee pot, 
which is made with two compartments, the upper contains 
the filter; into this put thf^ coffee which must be very finely 
ground, allowing the same quantity of coffee as for the 



ExcHAN^GE Cook Book. lOlT 

boiled. Pour tlie boiling water over it and let it drain 
through. Ponr it out of the pot and through the filter again. 
Coffee made in this way is always clear and of good flavor, 
and very strong. If you have not good cream to serve with 
coffee use boiled milk instead. The coffee served in the 
French market in New Orleans, which is world-renowned, is 
made in the filter coffee pots. But it is made very, very 
black and strong. The cups are only half filled with it and 
then filled up with boiling milk. 

TEA. 

After deciding the kind of tea you prefer to use be sure 
that it is never boiled. Tea contains an astringent quality, 
tannin, which is not only disagreeably bitter, but injurious 
as well. Boiling will drive off' the fragrant principle of tea, 
and will impart to the water the noxious properties of tannin. 

Allow one teaspoonful of tea leaves for each cup of tea you 
desire to make, and "one for the pot." Pour boiling water 
in the pot, to heat it, and then pour it out. Put in the tea, 
and pour over it the water freshly boiled. Let it steep a few 
minutes. Serve either with cream and sugar, or with a thin 
slice of lemon in each cup. 

CHOCOLATE. 

To each heaping tablespoonful of grated unsweetened choco- 
late, allow one-half pint of milk. Melt the chocolate in a little 
hot water. Put the milk in a double boiler and sweeten it to 
taste, as soon as it comes to a boil stir in the melted choco- 
late. Let it boil a minute and flavor with vanilla. 

Make cocoa according to this same recipe, using exactly 
the same proportions. 

Chocolate is particularly nice served with sweetened whip- 
ped cream on the top of each cup. 



108 Exchange Cook Book. 

NECTAR. 

Slice thin two oranges and tAVO lemons, removing the seeds. 
Have a cup of grated or sliced pineapple, put in a wide- 
mouthed pitcher, add two cups of powdered sugar, stir well; 
add one quart of pounded ice and one pint of water, stir well. 
If too sweet, add lemon juice. Can be colored with a little 
red wane, if desired. 

LEMONADE. 

Three lemons, quart of water, sweeten to taste. Plenty of 
pounded ice. For a change, serve lemonade with a bunch of 
green mint in the pitcher; a sprig in each glass. 

ORANGEADE. 

One gallon of water, ten oranges and two lemons, one and 
a half pounds of sugar, two quarts of pounded ice. 

BLACKBERRY CORDIAL. 

For every gallon of berries, add one quart of water, boil 
until the berries are soft. To every quart of iuice add a 
pound of sugar, one teaspoonful of ground cloves, one of cin- 
namon, one of nutmeg, one of allspice. Boil all together foi- 
five minutes, strain again, then add for every quart half a 
pint of brandy. Bottle and seal. 



ffllSGBLLANEOUS. 

TOO LATE TO BE CLASSIFIED. 



MELTED CHEESE. 

Take half a pound of good creamery cheese, and cut into 
small squares. Put on a pie pan and place in hot oven until 
well melted, turn into platter and cover with parsley. Serve 
hot.— i^. Z. IS. 



Exchange Cook Book. 109 

FRIED SOFT SHELL CKABS. 

Fill a frying pan half full of lard and allow it to become 
smoking hot. Make a rich, thick batter and dip each fish 
(previously washed aud dried) into it, then droj) into hot 
grease, allowing them to become a light brown before re- 
moving. Serve while hot with chili sauce. Crabs of uniform 
size look much nicer when served. — 1'\ Z. S. 

BROILED CRABS. 

Pour boiling water over them and wipe with a dry cloth, 
place on wire toaster and hold over bed of hot coals, turning 
often to prevent scorching. When the shell shrivels, the fish 
is done. Serve with sauce tartare. — F. Z. S. 

BROILED LOBSTERS. 

When buying fresh lobster, select one of medium size, 
heavy in proportion to size. Those with tirm, thick shells, 
will be found full of meat, while those with thin shells are 
watery. Straighten the tail, if it springs back quickly, the 
fish is fresh. If green, pour boiling water over it and allow 
it to remain in hot water from six to ten minutes. Then re- 
move and wipe with a dry cloth. Break off the large claws 
and crack them (do not remove the meat), then open the fish 
with a sharp knife, following the line down to stomach, be- 
tween the small claws. Place on the broiler (a common wire 
broiler is best), and hold over a hot bed of coals, turning 
often. When water ceases to run from the lobster it is done. 
Broil the large claws until the shell cracks open and part. 
Place on a large platter and garnish with slices of lemon and 
parsley. Serve while hot with drawn butter, melted cheese 
and chili sauce, — F. Z. S. 

DEVILLED CLAMS. 

Drain and chop two dozen clams, put a tablespoonful of 
butter in a saucepan on the stove, as soon as it is hot, add 



110 ExcHA^^GE Cook Book. 

two tablespoonfuls of flour, stir and add gradually one cup of 
milk; cook until it thickens, remove from the stove. Mash 
the yolks of four hard boiled eggs, add them to the clams; 
also, one teaspoonful of chopped parsley, half a teaspoonful 
of salt and a dash of red pepper. Fill baking shells, smooth 
and brush over with beaten egg and sprinkle with bread 
crumbs. Brown in a hot oven. This quantity will till fifteen 
or more shells. Serve very hot. 

SALTED ALMONDS. 

To prepare salted almonds for the table, blanch them by 
throwing boiling water over them, and then, after they have 
stood two minutes, putting them in cold water and rubbing 
the brown skin off with the hand. When the almonds are 
all blanched and dried with a cloth, measure them. Sprinkle 
a teaspoonful of olive oil ()\er every cupful of nuts. Let 
them stand two hours. Sprinkle a teaspoonful of salt over 
each -cupful, mixing it thoroughly with a spoon. Spread 
tluMii out on a tin biscuit ];)an'and place them in a quick oven, 
where they will turn a delicate brown and become crisp and 
tender in ten or fifteen minutes. They should remain on the 
table from the beginnins; of the meal to the end. 



ERRATA. 



After the proof was J'ead the printer changed the spelling of 
'entrees,'* •'cupfuls,'' "teaspoonfuls." and "tablespoonfuls -' 

On Page 60, line 23, read '•rise" instead of ''use." 



The Exchange Cook Book is a labor of love, no one, 
except the printer, receiving any remuneration. 



INDEX. 



PAGES. 

T ntroductory 8 

Kitchen Conveniences 4 

SOUPS 6 

Caramel H 

Ci'outons H 

Tomato 7 

Vegetable 7 

Amber 7 

Mock Bisque *< 

MockTurt.e s 

Green Corn 8 

Gumbo fS 

Bouillon 9 

Asparagus 9 

Cream of Celery I'J 

Rice Cream 10 

FISH 10 

Boiled 11 

Fried 11 

Steamed 11 

Sauce, for Boiled or Steamed 

Fish 11 

Boiled Fish 11 

Maitre d' Hotel Sauce V^ 

Bak^dFish l:^> 

Fish Croquettes... 12 

Scalloped Fis 13 

Turbot, a la Creme au Gi-.'iin. 13 
Lobster Terrapin 13 

OYSTERS 14 

Creamed 14 

Stew 14 

On Toast 14 

Pie of Oysters and Sweet 

Breads . 15 

Fried Oysters •. 15 

Oyster Loaf, or Peace-Maker.. 15 

Scalloped Oysters. 16 

Steamed Oysters 16 

MEATS IG 

Roasts... 16 

Hoast Meet 1-; 

Roast Pork 17 

Roast Pig 17 

Potted Beef 17 

Roast Lamb, with Mint Sauce. 18 

Mint Sauce 18 

Roast Mutton 18 



PAGES. 

Roast Veal ig 

Boiled Ham 19 

To Bake a Ham 19 

Broiling 19 

liroiled Steak 30 

Broiled Mutton Chops 30 

Veal Cutlets hu 

Chipped Beef, Stewed 3] 

Plain Broiled Ham . 31 

Beef, A La Mode 31 

Fillet of Beef, Larded 31 

Veal Loaf 33 

Corned Beef 33 

Stuffed Beefsteak 22 

Sanders 22 

Boiled Tongue, with TomHto 
Sauce 22 

POULTRY AND GAME. 28 

To Bake a Turkey 3;^ 

Stuffing for Fowls 33 

Force-Meat Stuffing 34 

Chicken, Boneless 34 

Fricasseed Chicken 34 

Steamed Chicken, with Oysters 24 

Pressed Chicken 35 

Chicken and Oyster Pie 25 

Broiled Quails 35 

Chestnut Stuffi ng 35 

Potato Stuffing 35 

Peanut Stuffing 35 

Aspic Jelly 3(5 

Scalloped Turkey, Chicken or 

Veal 26 

Chicken Terrapin 26 

Fried Chicken 37 

Curry of Spring Chicken 27 

To Broil Spring Chicken 37 

Smothered Chickens 27 

To Roast Ducks and Geese 38 

Chicken Steamed with Oysters 28 

Roast Venison 28 

Broiled Venison Steak 29 

Fried Rabbits or Squirrels ... 39 

Roast Wild Fowl 39 

To Roast Quail,Prairie Cnicken 39 
Prairie Chicken 29 

SAUCES— For Meat and 

Fish 30 

Drawn Butter 30 



112 



Index. 



PAGES. 

SAUCES— Continued. 

Maitre D' Hotel Sauce 30 

White Cream Sauce 30 

Tomato Sauce 30 

Egg- Sauce 30 

Caper Sauce 30 

Celery Sauce 31 

Onion Sauce .. 31 

Mint Sauce 31 

Anchovy Sauce 31 

Wine Sauce for Cold Meats ... 31 
Vinegar and Egg Sauce 31 

CROQUETTES, EN- 
TREES, ETC 32 

Croquettes 3:i 

Chicken Croquettes 35 

Sweet Breads and Mushroom 

Croquettes 33 

Chicken, Mushroom, and Sweet 

Bread Croquettes.. 33 

Veal Croquettes 33 

Fish Croquettes 34 

Oyster Croquettes 34 

Croquettes from Left-Overs. . . 34 

Kissoles 34 

Sweet Breads, Fried ;{.") 

Sweet Breads, Creamed 3;") 

Jellied Sweet Breads ;>.') 

Minced Chicken on Toast 3.') 

Chicken Timbales .. 35 

Fried Collops 3*5 

Hash 3(5 

Game or Poultry in Aspic .Jeliy 37 

Picnic Tongue 37 

Veal Pocketbooks 37 

Sandwiches 38 

Egg Sandwiches 38 

T6ngue Sandwiches 38 

Ham Sandwiches 38 

Chicken Sandwiches 38 

Cheese Sandwiches 38 

Pinard Sandwiches 39 

Pate de Foie Gras Sandwiches. 39 

Potatoes and Creamed Fish 39 

Garnishing 39 

SALADS 89 

Green Pepper and Tomato 

Salad 41 

Sweet Breads in Salad 41 

Chicken Salad 42 

Shrimp Salad 42 

Lobster Salad 42 

Queen of Salads 42 

Russian Salad 43 

Mayonnaise ofTomitoes 43 

French Dressma- 43 

Asparagus Salad 44 

CHEESE 44 

Cheese Balls 44 

Cheese Fondu 44 

Welsh Rarebit 44 



PAGES. 

EGGS 45 

Baked Omelet 45 

Plain Omelet 45 

Ometet Souffle 45 

Cheese Omelet 46 

Eggs, a la Creme 46 

Baked Omelet 46 

Shu-red Eggs 46 

Boiled Eggs, in the Shell 47 

Fried Egg ■, 47 

Scrambled Eggs 47 

Salad Eggs 47 

VEGETABLES 47 

Boiled Potatoes 47 

Tlmbale of Potatoes 48 

>; ew Potatoes 48 

Potato Puff 48 

Sarato>;a Potatoes 48 

Baked Potato Bails 49 

Sea loped Potatoes 49 

Potato Croquettes 49 

Stuffed Potatoes 49 

Mp'^hed Potatoes 49 

Poato Cakes 50 

Potatoes, :i la Lyonnaise .50 

The Best Way to Fry Potatoes 50 

Potato Salad 50 

To Cook Mushrooms 51 

Fried Mushrooms 51 

Mushrooms on Toast 51 

Stewed Tomatoes 52 

Greens 52 

Fried Plantains or Bananas... 52 

Stuffed Tomatoes 52 

Boston Baked Beans i'3 

Boiled Parsnips 53 

Squash ^ 53 

Boiled Onions 53 

Boiled Turnips 54 

Baked Macaroni 54 

Beets 54 

Steamed Rice 54 

Hulled Corn 54 

Stufter. Egg Plant 54 

Fried Oyster Plant 54 

Spinach 5 

Caulitiower 55 

Southern Way of Cooking 

Sweet Potatoes 55 

Stuffed Bell Peppers 55 

Tomatoes Stuffed with Rice. . . 55 

Okra 55 

Egg Plant 56 

Fried Egg Plant 56 

Boiled Corn 56 

Peas 53 

String Beans 56 

Lima Beans — 57 

Carrots 57 

Asparagus on Toast 57 

Scalloped Tomatoes 57 

Mock Oysters 57 

Oranberry Sauee 57 

Green Corn Pudding. .57 



Index. 



113 



PAGES. 

VEGETABLES— Continued. 

Succotash 58 

BKEAD 58 

Hop Yeast 61 

Home-Made Yeast. 61 

Salt Rising- Bread 61 

Graham Bread 62 

Rolls 63 

Entire Wheat Rread 63 

Whole Wheat Muffins 62 

Rusk 63 

Crumpets 63 | 

Sally Lunn 63 > 

English Muffins 6d j 

Beaten Biscuit 64 

Wafer Biscui 64 

Breakfast Puffs 64 

Muffins -. 64 

Baking- Powder Biscuit 65 

Corn Dodg-ers , 65 

Virginia Pone 65 

Mush 6o 

Corn Rread 65 

Steamed Corn Bread 66 

Corn Griddle Cakes 66 

Waffles 66 

Buckwheat Cakes 66 

Raised Buckwheat Cakes 66 

Griddle Cakes 66 

CAKE MAKING 67 

Some Hints on Cake Making. . . 67 

ICING 68 

Confectioners' Sugar Icing. ... 68 

Boiled Icing 68 

Cold Icing 68 

Fi lings for Layer Cakes 69 

Filling for Almond Cake 69 

Lemon Filling 60 

Chocolate Filling 69 

Cocoanut 69 

Pin apple i9 

Strawberry 69 

Orange W 

Rock V Mountain 70 

Pound Cake 70 

White Pound Cake 70 

White Cake 70 

Raisin Cake 70 

Almond Cake 71 

Curr ntCake 71 

Hiekorvnut Cake 71 

nitron C ke Tl 

WhiteFruit < ake 71 

Imperial Cako 'J'l 

Cocoanut Cnke 71 

Chocolate Marble Cake 71 

Black Fruitcake .71 

Fruit Cake 72 

Ice Cream C^ke 73 

Brownstone Front . 72 

Tea Cake 73 

White Cake 72 



PAGES. 

Boston Spice Cake 73 

Angel Food Cake 73 

Rose Angel Food 73 

Sunshine Cake 73 

Metropolitan Cake 73 

Orange Cake 74 

Custard Cake 74 

Cream Puffs 74 

Angel Food Jelly Cake 75 

Jelly Cake, 75 

Sponge Cake 75 

Dough Cake 75 

Old Fashioned Composition 

Cake 75 

Oley Cooks 76 

Cocoanut Puffs 76 

Snow Balls 78 

f hrewsberry Cakes 76 

Doughnuts 76 

Hlckorynut Jumbles 77 

Little currant Cakes ■ . 77 

Spice Nuts 77 

Norah's Ginger Bread. .... — 77 
S,.ongeCake 77 

PASTRY 78 

Ep.curean Pie Crust 78 

Pastry 79 

PnffPaPte 79 

Pastry Ft)r One Pie 79 

Cheese Straws 79 

Chicken Pie 79 

Lemon Ci earn Pie 80 

New Orleans Mince Meat 80 

Virginia Potato Pie 80 

Lemon Butter 80 

Pumpkin Pie 81 

Orange Pie 81 

Lemon Pie 81 

Custard Pie .81 

Fruit Pie • 81 

Preserved Fruit Pie 8^ 

Strawberry Short Cake 80 

Annie's Pudding 83 

Apple Fritters 83 

Apple Snow ..- .88 

("hopped Apple Pudding 83 

Fruit Roll 83 

Apple Dumplings 83 

Steamed Pudding 84 

Fruit or Berry hudding 84 

Transpare t Fudd ng H 

Sweet Wafers 84 

English Plum Pudding 84 

Puff Batter Pudding .86 

Snow Dumpl ngs 86 

Suet Steam P dding 85 

Steamed Ind an Pudding 86 

German I'uffs and Sauce 86 

A brench Fr. tier Batter 86 

.lapanose Fritters 86 

Preserve Puff's ^7 

Fig Pudding 87 

Butter and Sugar Snuce 87 

Yellow Sauce for Puddings ... 87 



114 



Index. 



PAGES. 

PASTRY— Continued. 

Clear Sauce 87 

Cream Sauce 87 

Wine Sauce — 87 

Strawberry Sauce ?8 

Kum Sauce for Ice Cream .... 88 

Cream Sauce B8 

An Old Fashioned Egg Sauce. . 88 

Boiled Custard 88 

Pineapple Jelly 89 

Gelatine Custard 89 

Prune Jelly 89 

Judge Peters 89 

A Good Lemon Jelly 90 

Charlotte Russe 90 

Tapioca Jelly....... ....,....; 90 

PICKLES 91 

Cucumber Pickles 91 

Small White Onions 91 

Green Tomato Pickles 91 

Small Cucumbers 92 

Mangoes • • 92 

Piccalilli Pickles • 93. 

Chopped Pickles 93 

Cucumber Pickles 93 

Pickled Walnuts 93 

\Vatermelon Rind Pickles 94 

Pickled Peaches 94 

Walnut Catsup 94 

Mushroom Catsup 95 

Red Pepper Catsup 95 

Chilli Sauce 95 

Cucumber Catsup 95 

Tomato Catsup 96 

Grape Catsup 98 

Currant, Plum and Cherry Cat- 
sup 96^ 

PRESERVES 96 

Marmalades and Jams 97 

Orange Marmalade 97 



PAGES. 

Red Raspberry Jam 98 

The Best Way to Make Je.lies. 98 

ICES 99 

Plain Vanilla Ice Cream 100 

Fruit Ice Cream — . . . . .101 

Caramellce Cream.... . — ... .101 

Frozen Custard. .. . . . . ' ".lOl 

Nesselrode Pudding 101 

A New Ice Cream 102 

Lemon Ice 102 

Orange Ice 102 

Strawberry Water Ice 103 

Pineapple Ice 103 

Snow Ice 103 

CANDY. ;.-.....;; 103 

Pralines, or Creamed Walnut8.104 

Stuffed Dates 104 

Crystallized Oranges and 

Grapes 105 

White Sugar Candy 105 

Walnut Candy -10^ 

Caramels ........ . ,. ...,..,... ■_. .... 105_ 

BEVERAGES 106 

Coffee lOG 

Tea 107 

Chocolate 107 

Nectar 108 

■ Lemonade 108 

Orangeade 108 

Blackberry Cordial 108 

MISCELLANEOUS 109 

Melted Cheese 108 

Fried Soft Shell Crabs 109 

Boiled Crabs 109 

Broiled Lobsters : 109 

Devilled Crabs 109 

Salted Almonds 110 

Errata 110 



Pennington Bros., 

Book-Sellers, Stationers, 

Engraved Cards, 

Duplicate Whist Boards, Fancy Goods. 
Novelties. 



<-^»5^*«^5<w 



Ladies who receive a copy of this valuable book will find 
it to their advantage to trade with us. 

Pennington Bros., 

333 S. 6tli Street. 




WHERE WE EXCELL 

With most Clothing Stores, the Children-s Department is a 
secondary consideration. Not so with us. 

The Children's Department is where we start you. As you 

grow older we take you into the Boys' De})artment— thence 

to the Youth's and finally into the Men's Department, where 

we strive to keep you. 

The Children's Department is the nursery of the Clothing- 
business. It is right here where we aim to excel!. 

This department has kept pace with the general improve ■ 
ment in '-ready to wear Clothes.'* 

Season after season we have been enabled to show better goocLs, 
better ynade^ at kncer prices. 

We cordially invite a critical examination of this depart- 
ment. 

HALI^ & HERRICK, 

Southeast Corner Square. 'Springfield, 111. 




v\V.TM«t.-,^-=s 



Goods that 
will bear 

Close 
Inspection. 



That is the sort of JEWELRY or WATCHES you 

want to buy. 

Reliability is as essential in a Jeweler as in a physician. 

That is the secret of our continued success and increasing 

patronage. But that 's merely introduction. 

What we want to call your attention to particularly is our 
special large and well selected stock, and of our 

OPTICAL DEPARTMENT, 

Under the management of an expert Optician, who will be 
pleased to examine your eyes free of charge, and will furnish 
you with perfect fitting lenses and frames which will give 
satisfaction. Every pair of Spectacles or Eye-Glasses fitted 
in our establishment are warranted.! 

Please give us a call, 

210 SOUTH SIXTH STREET, 

JEWELER AND OPTICIAN. 



Education is a Great Thing, 



BOYS, 



GIRLS 



What better thing can you do for that boy of yours than to 

educate him to observe economy? 
If he earns money or has an allowance a good way to use a 

part of his earnings would be its investment in a lot. 
A hundred (100) dollars is not much but it would help the boy 

to appreciate the value of money. 
When he has acquired a lot of this kind he will most likely 

begin on something better. 
The education is worth the trial if the lot never increased 

in value. 
84 in cash. 
H a month. 
No interest. 



You do not have the chance the boys often have. 

You could however, spare something from dress and finery. 

and ere long be the happy owner of a nice lot. 
Ask your Papa to let you have $4 now and four (4^ dollars a 

month. 
And in a little while you will have a lot of your own. 
No interest remember. 



COOKS. 



Four dollars a week you are gettting, I expect if the truth 

was known you put it on your back 

Not a cent for a rainy day. 
Not an inch of ground for a home. 
You can spare $4 per month. 
Your first payment will be $4. 
You get possession at once. 
You can fence yonr lot. 

Have it cultivated and raise enough off it to pay for it. 
Ihe first smiling- Cook you meet ask her if she has'ntgot 

one of his $100 lots 
This will make anybody smile. 

Call on Mr. Wilson and get a plat of his $100 lot schemo. 
Office— Marine Bank Building. 



See E. A. WILSON, for BOILER FACTORY LOTS. 



Call on Wlr. Wilson for Plat of Lots near Furniture Factory. 



First National Bank 



XJ. S. Depository . 



Capital. Surplus and Profits, $395000.00 

DOES A general BANKING BUSINESS. 



iGLfely Bep©si{ \7(2iuus [or per)l 



IDix^ecto:rs. 



FRANK W. TRACY, 

HOWARD K. WEBER, I 

GEORGE PASFIELD, i 

WILLIAM JAYNE, 1 

J HENRY SCHUOK, ' 

C. A. BEECHER, 

C. C. CARROLL, 

MILTON WOOD, 

G. A. VAN DUYN, 

CHAS. F. HERMAN. 



FRANK W. TRACY, Fresident. 

HOWARD K. WEBER, Vice-President, 

GEORGE PASFIELD, M Vice-PresidenL 
W. W. TRACY, Cashier. 

C. L. ABELL, Assistant Cashier, 



Old Comer Drug Store, 

H, W. Corner Square. 




iuavi ^^voadwell 



DRUGGIST, 

SPRINGFIELD, - ILL, 



m. 



W" 



m 



O 



'-a 

CD 

O 



o3 



CD 
J— ( 



CD 
CD 




oo 

t— » 
CO 



en 



O) 



•CD 

■CO 



CD 

^-^ 

CD 



O 

o 

o- 

CD 



Fine Home-Made Candies a Specialty. 

MDuroe Street, Opp. Franklin Life Building^, 
Springfield, Illinois 



Jol?n W. Bunn §; @ 



WHOLESALE 



SEf)f^l^ 



SPRINGFIELD, 



ILLINOIS. 



Telephone No. 77, 



M. S. KIMBALL, Pres. J. E. HEMMICK, Sec. and TreoK. 

M. N. VAN ZANDT, Manager. 



TliB Van Zandt Bakins Po«der 



Is Made with 



Pure Cream of Tartar, 



And is tlie 



Strongest and Best in the Market, 

Possessing higher leavening power, as those who have used it 

testify. 



DR. L. N. BULKLEY, Surgeon in charge of the Wabash Hospita], writes: 
"We have been using you.' Baking Powder at the Wabash Hospital tor 
over a month. * * 1 believe it to be superior to any other we have 
ever used," 

MRS. H. G. POST says: "I have tried the VanZandt Baking Powder, using 
about two-thirds the amount that I have been in ihe habit of using and 
find my cakes fully as nice, if not nicer than formerly." 

MRS. S. H. AYEKS writes: "I am sure if the public knew the wonderful 
merits of the VanZandt Baking Powder as well as I do you could not make 
it fast enough." 

MALDANER & FRANK, the well known Caterers say: "We regard it as 
superior to any oth-^r." 

E. A. STALEY, (Proprietor of the "Delicatessen,") says: "I prefer the Van- 
Zandt Baking Powder to any other." 

SAM WILLI8, (Proprietor of the Cafe de Paris,) says: "I find it better than 
any other Baking Powder, not excepting Price's." 

MRS. ANNA B. MASON, ot Divernon, says: "I took six premiums at the 
Sangamon County Fctir on cake made with the VanZandc Baking Powder. 
I prefer it to Koyal or any othei\" 

MRS. JAMES MORRISON, of New Berlin, writes: "I took a premium ,ou 
White Cake made with the VanZandt Baking Powder. Had always used 
Dr. Price's, but find yours stronger and give it the preference." 

MISS MINNIE WORKMAN, of Auburn Township, says: "I took five prem- 
iums on cakes made with the VanZandt Baking Powder, two of the prem- 
iums being sweepstakes. I find it stronger than, and superior to the 
Royal." 

MRS. J. P. EDWARDS, of Mechanicsburg, says: "I took two premiums on 
cakes baked with the VanZandt Baking Pcwder, and lind it takes only 
BAJLF the quantity as against the Royal or Price's, which I have been 
using." 



Don't Make the Mistake of Using' too mnch- 

Never more thau specified in the directions. 



Elevator 



Milling 




t> 



SPRINGFIEL©, ILL. 

Corner Ttiird and Waslnington Streets, 

X^iumpt^" and "golden gem 

FLOUR. 



I have tried a number of different brands of flour in my 
cake making, but now use only the "Triumph" flour,; as I. 
find it gives the most satisfactory results. 

MRa H. G. POST. 




Are Thoroughly Taught at the Springfiield Business College. 

CAPITOL GREENHOUSE. 

Cor. Third and Capital Avenue. 

Greenhouse and Uedding- Plants. Artistic Decoi'ations for Receptions and 

Wedding's Finest Palms in «.entral Illinois. Floral Designs for Funerals. 

Hoses. Carnations, Cut Flowers and Smilax to be had at any time and shipped 

to any place with satisfaction. All are invited to visit my Greenhouses. 

LOUIS UNVERZACT, Florist 

Teiephone 461, Springfield, CIS. 



O. L-., TTrieibkk, 



DEALER IN 



BOOTT© AND ^^HOEIS, 

I05 North Fifth Street. 

3(1 Door North of N. W, Cor. Square. SPRINGFJELD, ILL. 

Upholstery. Mattresses, Feathers, Tents and Awnings, 

Feather Renovating 
519 lilouroe Street. Sign of Swan. 

HAS 

Also can fill all orders. Sweet Violets a specialty. 



,(OHN M. PALJklER. W- E. SHU'TI. JOHN G. DRENNAN. 

Palmer, Slauitt & Drennan, 
Attorneys S Couinselors at l^avs^, 

South 5tb Street. Between Adams and Monroe. 
ORDERS TAKEN AT THE 

-^-^W^oman'^ KxchiarLge,— 

For Plain and P'ancy Needlework. Also for Painted and 
Decorative Art Work. 

Whoieftale and Uetail Dealer in 

fill ItmimiEl MliSliiWW 11?1® lil 

HARD AND SOFT COAL AND WOOD, 

office. -Zlb South 5th Street. Telephone 321. Springfield, 111- 

Office and Yard. Corner 10th and Edwards Streets. 

Si=»i^in^To-i^iEXjiD Oa-Eipet Co. 

BEST GOODS FOR LEAST MONtY. 

CAR«^ETS, CURTAINS, OIL CLOTHS. 

Telephone 382. 521 North Side Square. 

THOMAS C. SMITH. 

Umderthker hhd Funerhl Furnisher, 

No 325 S. 5th Street, Springfield 111. 

w. hTirvine, 

UnDERTEKER HMD FURERffL FURNlSHER,^ 

No. 325 S. 5th Street, Springfield, 111. 

' Nigiit Calls Promptly attended to. 

The Cake furnished by the Woman's Exchange 

catmpt be' excelled. It is perfect.. ^ ■ 



Myers' Wonder Store, 

HEADQUARTERS FDR 

Baby Carriages, Tricycles, 

Velocipedes, Toys, Etc. 

Peter Vredenburgh, 

Dealer in 

Iiumber and Shingles, Sash, Doors and Blinds, 

Sewer Pipe, Hair, Lath, Lime, Cement, Fire Brick^ Etc. 

Manufacturer 81at Wire Fence. 

N. W. Cor. od and Jefferson Streets, Springfield III. 

WEEMS' LAUNDRY. 

323 South 5th Street. Telephone 168. 



The Woman's Exchange. 

327 South Fifth Street. 

Organized to liel}) women. Patroni/e it and aid in the good 

work. 

Myers' Wonder Store, 

HEADQUilRTERS FDR 

Hoiisekeepmg Goods of Every 
Description. 

Reliable Goods. Popular Prices. 



R. H. ZiMMEKMAX. Geo. Day. 

ZIMMERMAN & DAY, 



Donloi-s ill 



WALL PAPER, PAINTS 

OILS AND GLASS, 

421 Adams Street. SPRIN(tFIELJ), ILL. 

Bottie Stuart Institute, 

Corner 4th and Jackson Streets, Si)ringfield, 111. 

A delig-htful home school lor j'oung- ladies and children. 'JTiorough instruc- 
tion, with a liif^- 1 standard of scholarship in all departments. Complete 
course in Musjc, Elocution and Art. Moderate Expenses. F<ir terms and 
furthei- information, address 

MRS. A. M BROOKS. Principal, Sprin^tiidd, 111. 



Orders taken at the Woman's Exchange for plain and fancy needlework. Also 
for painted and decorative art work. ;L'7 S. 5th ^ treet. 
Sandwiches of all kinds made to order. 
The Woman's Exchange is almo't indispensable to the housekeepers of 
Sp ingfield and Central I lirois. Whenever you wish anything- that a woman 
can make, either in the edible or fancy work department, send them your 

orders. 

A. DiRKSEN y SONS, Leading Dealers in Furniture. 

Call and see our line of Bed-room. T'arlor and Dining-Room Sets, and get our 

prices before buying elsewhere. 

406, 4US. 410 E. Washington St., Telephone 445, Springrtield, Illinois. 

ORDER YOUR 

From the WOMANS EXCHANGE. 



Ladies' Fine Furs and 
Fur Garments. 



Furs of all kinds repaired. 
Sealskin Garments Made to Order. 



C. D. ROBERTS & CO 



lor Birlliiia!. WfiMii M Ctirislfflas Presents, 

Remember oxiv Fancy Work Department. Orders taken for all kinds of Fancy 
or Decorative Work at the Ex.hanf>e. 




EXCELSIOR TRUNK FACTORY 

109 North 5tli Street, 

The best ol everythinji- in the 

Ittmak ti4 Is^iMii lit B^iiais 

Call and see the COMMON SENSE TUUNK. 

Uanding- closely against the wall this Trunk can be 
'' - • " " ^orward. 

KOLH & FOX, 



)pened without hein^- pulled forward. 



JOHN S. CONDELL, Jr. 

Dealer in 

-STOVES, RANGES AND FURNACES,- 

Kitchen Furnishings of all kinds, styles and prices. 
Soap Stone Gr.ddles, ^nam^ed^Griddlj^ Waffle^ons,^^^^ ^^^^^^^ ^^^.^.^^^ ^^^ 

'Tne Acorn Oak the most perfect Oa nuule. Air-tight. A Perfect Keeper, 
ine Acoin ^^)^^^l\,^^^^^ Improvements in Base Bu ning- Stoves. 
Cornice, Rooting and Guttering Manutactory. 
^^629 East Adams Street and 131 and 13:5 South Seventh Street^^^^ 



Hardwood Mantels, Grates and Tiles. 

314 South Fifth Street, 
SPRmGFlELI), - . - ILLINOIS. 



MIBS M. MOBRR. 

MODIST^^EL 

Rooms ns and 34, Franklin Building-, Springtield, 111. 



Saratoga Potatoes, Baked Beans and Home-Made Candy 
at the Exchano-e. 



THE WOMAN'S EXCHANGE 

IS LOCATED AT 

32^7 SOXJTS: IPIIPTS: STI^EET, - 



It is open Daily, except Sunday, at 7:45 A. M. 
to 6:30 P. M., Saturdays to 7 P. M. 

Orders for furnishing Refreshments for Weddings, Receji- 

tions and Entertainments of all kinds promi)tly 

attended to. Telephone 601. 

JAMES L. HUDSON, 

_., Wholesale and Retail Dealer in 

Wagon Material, Belting, &c. 

50() South Side Square, 
SPKINGFIELD. - - ILLINOXB. . 



Send in your orders at once for the 

"Exchange Cook Book" 

Just compiled and published. 

S0r)f<ziir)S 0^ep 10@ Ifaqes©] fe<r)0ice I\eceipfs 

Many of them are new, all have been tested by good housekeepers. 
Only a limited number of the Books left 

f: JPRICE—Bouijd. in: White Oil Cloth, 75 CEl^S. ( -^^t 

This editioia is,sokl for the Benefit of the Woman's &chaii^,| 
Springfield- Ilh " " ' 



I 



Is THE Leading 

DRY GOODS, 



.A. 3^X5- 



MILLINERY 

HOUSE 



—OF- 



CENTRAL ILLINOIS. 



The habit of selling everything at the minimum price, and 

of a thoroughly reliable quality, is strictly 

maintained by this house. 

R. F. Hepnflon ^ @. 



LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 
014 480 288 3 # 





