^6 
^■''''^ CONCORD 



SOUVENIR 

COOK BOOK 




<< 



SOUVENIR" 



COOK BOOK 



Tried and Approved Recipes 



COMPILED BY 



M. HOUGHTON WHITCOMB 



li is the boiDity of nature that we live, but of philosophy that we live welV 



Thomas Todd, i So?nersel Street, Boston 
i8g2 



^t^ 



Copyright, 1892, by 
M. Houghton Whitcomb. 



SALUTATORY, 



As tJiis book needs neitJier apology nor 
self-praise and deserves not self-depreciation — 
does not seek to compliment — it therefore has 
no preface to zvrite. It only desires to say, 
by ivay of explanation, that every recipe in 
it is the result of actual and approved trial. 



THIS BOOK is dedicated to those noble wives 
and mothers who, by earnest striving, seek to 
make of home a haven of rest and comfort, 
where all can dwell together in sweet peace 
and — CONCORD. M. H. W. 



PREAD, P15QCJIT, ETC. 



Experience does take dreadfully high school wages, 
But he teaches like no other. — Carlyle. 



YEAST. 

Boil and mash six large potatoes ; pour over them six 
quarts boiling water and strain ; add cup salt, one cup sugar ; 
let it stand until nearly cool, then add one cup yeast (or one 
yeast cake) ; leave in a warm place, and let it stand until 
fermented. This yeast never sours. 

BROWN BREAD. 

One pint sour milk, one cup rye meal, one cup Indian 
meal, one cup graham, one cup flour, one cup molasses, pinch 
of salt, one teaspoonful soda, a few raisins. Steam four 
hours, then brown in the oven. 

BROWN BREAD. 

Two cups rye meal, two of Indian meal, one cup flour, 
one cup molasses, three and one half cups sour milk, one 
teaspoonful soda. Bake four hours very slowly. 

CORN CAKE. 

One egg, one half cup sugar, one cup sour milk, one half 
cup Indian meal, one cup flour, one teaspoonful soda, a pinch 
of salt. 

BISCUIT. 

One cup milk, a small piece of butter, two and a half 
teaspoonfuls (not heaping) of baking powder, and two cupfuls 
of flour. 



6 SOUVENIR COOK BOOK. 

WHITE BREAD. 

Two quarts flour, tablespoonful of lard, one quart of 
warm milk, one large spoonful sugar, one half teaspoonful 
salt, one half cup yeast ; let it rise over night, knead in the 
morning, rise again in the tins. Bake an hour in a moderate 
oven. 

PARKER HOUSE ROLLS. 

One quart of flour, half tablespoonful butter, half table- 
spoonful lard, one third cup sugar, one pint milk cooled, a 
little salt, one half cup yeast ; set to rise in a warm place ; 
when light, stir down and rise again ; when well risen, knead 
and roll out half an inch, spread on a little butter, cut oblong, 
double over in form of half circle, let rise again, then bake. 

MRS. L'S ROLLS. 

One pint and a half sweet milk boiled ; while still warm, 
put in butter the size of an ^gg, three tablespoonfuls of sugar, 
a little salt, one half cake of compressed yeast ; when light, 
mould fifteen minutes ; let rise again, cut into round cakes, 
spread each half with butter, and fold over the other half. 
Put into pans ; when light, bake in a quick oven. 

GRAHAM BREAD. 

One quart of warm water, one half cup molasses, one 
half cup sugar, four cups graham, four cups flour, a little salt, 
one yeast cake ; rise over night ; let bake one hour. 

GRAHAM ROLLS No. i. 

Two cups sour milk, one half cup molasses, one fourth 
cup sugar, two tablespoonfuls melted lard, one teaspoonful 
soda, graham flour enough for a stiff batter. Bake in gem 
pans. 



SOUVENIR COOK BOOK. 7 

GRAHAM ROLLS No. 2. 

Two cups graham meal, one half cup flour, one ^g'g^ one 
half cup sugar, a little salt, one teaspoonful soda, two of 
cream tartar, butter size of a walnut. 

RYE CAKES. 

One pint hot milk, one cup rye meal, two cups flour, one 
half cup sugar ; cool, then add one half cup of yeast. Let 
this rise over night ; in the morning add one half teaspoon- 
ful saleratus and two eggs. 

RYE MUFFINS. 

One pint rye, one pint flour, one half cup yeast, one half 
cup molasses, pinch of salt, one teaspoonful soda. 

SQUASH MUFFINS. 

One cup squash, one ^^g^ one half cup sugar, one cup 
milk, one teaspoonful cream tartar, one half teaspoonful 
soda, flour enough to stiffen. 

CORN CAKE No. i. 

One cup sour milk, one cup flour, one cup Indian meal, 
one half cup sugar, butter size of an ^gg^ one teaspoonful 
soda. 

CORN CAKE No. 2. 

One cup sweet milk, one cup flour, one cup Indian 
meal, one half cup sugar, one ^gg^ one teaspoonful soda, 
two of cream tartar, a little salt. 

CORN CAKE No. 3. (Old Fashioned.) 

One cup sweet milk, one cup molasses, one teaspoonful 
soda, two teaspoonfuls cream tartar ; mix thin with Indian 
meal and a little flour. 



SOUVENIR COOK BOOK. 



BREAKFAST PUFFS. 



One pint flour, one pint sweet milk, two eggs, lump of 
butter size of a walnut. Bake in gem pans. 

RICE WAFFLES. 

Boil one cup of rice ; when cold, mix with two cups flour, 
two eggs, one tablespoonful sugar, half cup yeast, a little salt, 
water to thin ; let rise over night. 

POP-OVERS. 

Three cups milk, three cups flour, three eggs. Bake 
half an hour in a quick oven, in gem pans. 

BISCUIT. 

One cup milk, one tablespoonful butter, one teaspoonful 
soda, two of cream tartar ; mix very soft, mould very lightly, 
and cut into shape. This makes nine biscuit. 

SALLIE LUNN. 

One ^gg^ butter size of a butternut, half cup sugar; beat 
these together ; teacup sweet milk, two cups flour, three tea- 
spoonfuls baking powder ; bake twenty-five minutes. 

CORN FRITTERS No. i. 

One pint grated corn, one gill cream, two cups flour, two 
eggs, one teaspoonful salt ; fry in salt pork fat. 

CORN FRITTERS No. 2. 

One tgg beaten, three tablespoonfuls flour, butter size 
of a walnut, a little salt, six ears of corn cut off and chopped 
fine, milk enough to thin ; fry in salt pork fat. 



SOUVENIR COOK BOOK. 



FRITTERS. 



To one pint sour milk add a little salt, one half tea- 
spoonful soda, one ^%^\ stir in flour enough for a batter, not 
too stiff. 

CREAM FRITTERS. 

Mix one and one lialf pints of tiour with a pint of milk, 
stir in five well beaten eggs, add one half nutmeg, two tea- 
spoonfuls salt, one pint cream ; stir the whole just enough to 
intermix the cream, add a few tender apples chopped fine, 
then frv in small cakes. 

STRAWBERRY SHORTCAKE No. i. 

One cup milk, butter the size of an ^g^^ pinch of salt, 
one teaspoonful soda, two teaspoonfuls cream tartar, flour 
enough to mould lightly ; bake in a quick oven ; when done, 
split open ; mash three pints of strawberries with powdered 
sugar, butter the cake and fill with the berries. 

STRAWBERRY SHORTCAKE No. 2. 

One cup sugar, one half cup butter, one half cup milk, 
two eggs, one and one half cups flour, one half teaspoonful 
soda, one teaspoonful cream tartar. Bake in two round tins ; 
when done, spread mashed sweetened strawberries between 
layers, and on top whole berries with whipped cream over 
them. 

ORANGE SHORTCAKE. 

One ^gg^ one cup milk, two tablespoonfuls melted but- 
ter, one heaping teaspoonful baking powder; make as stiff 
as pound cake ; bake on round tins ; when done, split open ; 
cut up eight oranges in small bits, and prepare the same as 
strawberrv shortcake. 



lO SOUVENIR COOK BOOK. 



^^. 50(JP5 ^^^ 



" Some like it hot, 
Some like it cold, 
Some like it in the pot, 
Nine days old." 



STOCK FOR SOUP. 



Take lean beef and cold water, in proportion of one 
pound of beef to one quart water; place it in a soup kettle 
over a good fire ; when it boils, add a cup of cold water and 
remove the scum ; then place the kettle over a moderate fire, 
and let it simmer slowl}^ four or five hours. This stock may 
be used for all soups in which meat broth is desired. It will 
make a good soup by adding canned tomatoes, and serving 
with small pieces of toasted bread. 

BEEF SOUP. 

Take sufficient soup stock ; boil one onion, one carrot, 
one quart of potatoes, and vegetables to suit taste, in a little 
water, and strain into the soup stock; add pepper, salt, etc., 
to suit. 

BOUILLON SOUP. 

Put a shank of beef (six or seven pounds) into a large 
pot and cover with cold water; leave on front of stove until 
it boils, then move it to the back of stove and let it simmer 
an hour and a half; cut up two carrots, two onions, and 
half a lemon ; salt to taste, and boil until the meat falls from 
the bones: then strain throu2;h a sieve and set in the cold. 



SOUVENIR COOK BOOK. II 

Next day remove every particle of grease that has risen to 
the top, heat the bouillon and pour into cups, first having 
a slice of lemon in each cup ; season to taste. 

TOMATO SOUP. 

One pint of cooked tomatoes, one pint of water; when 
boiled, add half teaspoonful soda; when done foaming, add 
one quart hot milk ; season good with butter, pepper, and 
salt. 



12 SOUVENIR COOK BOOK. 



^^. n 3 li i^^^ 



" With hooks and nets you catch us, 
You never regard our pains ; 
Yet we reward you with dainty food, 
To strengthen your body and brains." 



CLAM CHOWDER. 

One quart of clams squeezed. Fry two slices of pork 
in an iron pot. Slice two onions and eight potatoes ; put in 
a layer of potatoes and onions, then add a layer of broken 
crackers, sprinkle with pepper and salt; fill up the remainder 
in this way, cook until the potatoes are done, the last-half 
hour putting in the clams. Just before serving add one pint 
hot milk. 

CODFISH BALLS. 

Three pints of boiling water, one cup salt codfish which 
has been picked into small pieces and freed from bones, one 
pint of potatoes peeled and quartered. Put all together in 
a pan, and boil until the potatoes are soft. Drain off the 
water, mash and beat until soft and smooth, add one tea- 
spoonful butter, a little pepper^ and when slightly cooled, 
add one well-beaten ^gg. Shape into balls, fry in hot lard. 

PARSNIP BALLS. (F. M.) 

Boil in salted water until tender ; mash, and season 
with butter, pepper, and salt ; add a little flour and two well- 
beaten eggs ; form into small balls, and fry in hot lard. 



SOUVENIR COOK BOOK. 13 

LITTLE PIGS IN BLANKETS. 

Take large oysters, wrap each one in a slice of bacon, 
cut very thin ; fasten with little wooden toothpicks, roll in 
beaten ^^g^ then in cracker dust, and fry quickly in a hot 
spider. 

TURBOUT. 

Three pounds of halibut steamed until tender ; remove 
bones and sprinkle with salt and pepper. Dressing. — Heat 
one quart of milk and thicken with one fourth pound flour ; 
when cool add two eggs and one fourth pound of butter ; 
put in the baking dish a layer of fish, cover with sauce, then 
another layer of fish, and so on until all is used ; season with 
parsley, cover the top with bread crumbs, bake half an hour. 

CODFISH DIP. 

Soak the fish in lukewarm water over night ; boil one 
quart of milk, thicken with two tablespoonfuls flour, then 
add two cups shredded codfish ; boil all together ; serve with 
mashed potatoes. 

CODFISH BALLS. 

One pound codfish soaked over night, four large pota- 
toes ; place potatoes in a kettle of boiling water, and codfish 
in colander and set it over the potatoes (when the potatoes 
are tender the fish will be sufficiently steamed) ; then mash 
potatoes, pick codfish in pieces, add a large piece of butter, 
two tablespoonfuls cream, one ^gg^ beat all together, roll in 
balls and fry. 

CORN FISH. 

One pint grated green corn, one half cup sweet milk, 
one ^gg., one tablespoonful sour cream or a little butter, 
a little salt, flour to make as. stiff as batter cake; fry in the 
shape of oysters, in half butter, suet, or lard. 



14 SOUVENIR COOK BOOK. 



BAKED FISH. 



A fish weighing from four to six pounds is good size to 
bake. Make a dressing of bread crumbs, butter, salt, and 
a Httle salt pork, chopped fine, (parsley and onions if you 
wish) ; mix this with one &^g ; fill the body, sew it up and lay 
it in a large dripper ; put across it some strips of salt pork ; 
bake one and a half hours. 

CREAM SAUCE FOR FISH. 

Heat a cup of milk to scalding; stir into it a teaspoon- 
ful of corn starch wet up with a little water ; when this 
thickens, add two tablespoonfuls butter, with pepper, salt, and 
chopped parsley ; beat an egg light, pour the sauce gradually 
over it ; put it again over the fire and stir one minute, and 
pour over the fish. 

FISH CROQUETTES. 

Take cold fish left from dinner, pick in small pieces, 
add one third potato, season, roll in balls, dip in &gg^ and 
then in cracker crumbs. Fry in lard ; add an egg if desired. 

OYSTERS ESCALLOPED. 

One quart oysters, one quart bowl cream bread crusts, 
one large tablespoonful butter, teaspoonful salt and pepper, 
one cup milk. 

STEAMED OYSTERS. 

One quart oysters for six or seven persons ; put this 
quantity into a two-quart dish, with a small piece of butter, 
a little salt, and a little milk ; place in the steamer and let it 
steam twenty minutes after the water begins to boil. They 
will be delicious. 

CREAMED OYSTERS. 

One pint milk boiled; one. pint oysters (liquor strained), 
three tablespoonfuls flour to thicken ; when cooked, serve 
with buttered toast. 



SOUVENIR COOK BOOK. 15 



(^^' AEAT5 !a^ 



"Cheerful looks make every dish a feast, 
And 'tis that crowns a welcome." 



ROAST LAMB AND MINT SAUCE. 

Stuff a hind quarter of lamb with fine bread crumbs, 
pepper, salt, and butter; rub the outside with salt, pepper, 
butter, flour ; then roast two hours. Mint Sauce. — Chop 
the mint fine ; pour on a little hot water ; let it stand on the 
stove a short time, then add a little vinegar and sugar to 
taste. 

HAM BALLS. 

Chop fine cold cooked ham ; add an egg for each per- 
son, and a little flour ; beat together, make into balls, and 
fry in hot butter. 

HASH. 

Hash made of two parts potato, one part corned beef, 
and one part beets, is an appetizing dish for breakfast. The 
potatoes and beets should be boiled the day before ; chop, 
season with butter, pepper, and salt. 

VEAL PATE. 

Three-and-a-half-pound leg of veal chopped raw, six 
small crackers rolled fine, three eggs, small pieces of butter, 
one tablespoonful salt, one tablespoonful nutmeg, one tea- 
spoonful pepper, one small slice of pork chopped fine ; mix 
all together into a loaf; put bits of butter on top, and grated 
bread crumbs over all ; put in the oven with a little water ; 
baste often ; bake two hours, and when cold cut in thin 
slices. 



SOUVENIR COOK BOOK. 



BAKED HAM, 



Boil four hours ; take off skin and rub a heaping table- 
spoonful white sugar into the rind, and stick it with whole 
cloves. Bake it, basting with vinegar and water. 

MOTHER'S BROIL FOR STEAK. 

Heat a griddle very hot ; lay on the beefsteak, and lift 
it up again quickly, and repeat until the steak ceases to stick 
to the griddle ; then turn and treat in the same way until the 
steak is cooked as desired. Have ready a heated dish ; salt 
and pepper the meat on both sides, and butter, pressing with 
a knife and fork to bring the juice. This is as good as broil- 
ing on the gridiron, if attended to. 

FRIED TRIPE. (O. A. K.) 

Dredge with flour, and fry in hot butter until a delicate 
brown on both sides. Serve on very hot dishes. In buying 
tripe, get the " honeycomb," as it is the best. 

BEEFSTEAK TOAST, 

Chop cold steak very fine ; cook in a little water, put in 
cream or milk ; thicken, season with butter, salt, pepper. 
Serve on buttered toast. 

TO COOK AN OLD FOWL. 

Dress and stuff as for roasting; boil three hours in a 
covered pot with one quart water, to which add two table- 
spoonfuls vinegar ; then take from the water, rub over with 
butter, sprinkle on some flour, and bake an hour. Use the 
liquid to baste with, and for gravy. The vinegar makes the 
fowl tender, but does not taste at all. 



SOUVENIR COOK BOOK. 17 

CHICKEN CROQUETTES. 

To any quantity of cold chicken add one third as much 
potato ; chop fine and season ; add enough chicken gravy to 
moisten it; two eggs well beaten for one chicken; make into 
balls, drop into beaten ^gg, then in cracker crumbs, and fry 
in hot lard until brown. 



BAKED CHICKEN. 

Dress the chickens, cut them in two, soak half an hour 
in cold water, wipe perfectly dry, and put in a dripping-pan, 
bone side down, without any water; have a hot oven, and if 
the chickens are young, half an hour's cooking will be suffi- 
cient. Take out and season with butter, pepper, and salt ; 
boil the giblets in a little water, and after the chickens are 
taken from the pan, put into it the water in which the giblets 
were boiled, thicken, and add chopped giblets. 

PRESSED CHICKEN. 

Boil chicken very tender; be sure to have plenty of 
liquor; separate white meat from the dark; soak three slices 
of bread in the liquor for a few minutes, then chop it up with 
the dark meat. Put white meat in the bottom of the dish, 
pour a little liquor on, then put on a layer of dark meat; 
leave until it is cold, and it will turn out like jelly. 

POT ROAST. 

Take a lean piece of beef ; fry two slices of salt pork in 
an iron pot a few minutes ; season the beef and sprinkle 
over a little flour, then put in the pot and fry brown on all 
sides. Pour in hot water to half cover the beef, cover 
tightly and cook until tender ; add a little boiling water at 
intervals to prevent burning ; thicken the gravy and pour 
around the meat on the platter. Meats to be roasted or 



1 8 SOUVENIR COOK BOOK. 

broiled should be given the greatest amount of heat pos- 
sible at first, that the surface may be hardened and the 
juices retained. 

CHICKEN PIE. 

Boil two chickens in salted water, just enough to cover 
them, until done ; then put the chicken in the dish in layers — 
salt, pepper, and butter each layer, dredge in a little flour, 
and cover with a light crust. Put in enough of the liquor in 
which the meat was boiled to cover the meat. Bake one 
hour. 

BROILED PORK STEAK. 

These should be cut thin, broiled quick, and very 
thoroughly. 

TURKEY WITH OYSTER DRESSING. 

For a ten-pound turkey take two pints bread crumbs, 
half a teacupful butter cut in small pieces, one teaspoonful 
summer savory, pepper and salt; rub the turkey with flour, 
pepper, and salt. Fill the turkey with a teaspoonful of dress- 
ing, a few well strained oysters, alternating until filled. Put 
the oyster liquid in the pan with a pint of water ; bake in a 
moderate oven. 

FRIED BREAD FOR SOUP. 

Cut bread into little squares about three fourths of an 
inch thick ; fry in butter, turning the pieces, so that every 
piece will be browned, 

CREAM CHICKEN. 

Place one half pint rich cream over the fire, with two 
tablespoonfuls chopped parsley, a dash of cayenne pepper, 
and salt to taste ; cut the white meat into small pieces, 
enough to fill a pint measure ; after the cream is hot, stir in 
the chicken, and continue stirring for two minutes ; serve 
in patty shells. 



SOUVENIR COOK BOOK. 19 

TARTARE SAUCE. 

Half pint Mayonnaise dressing, two teaspoonfuls chopped 
capers, two teaspoonfuls chopped olives, one teaspoonful 
chopped cucumber pickles, one teaspoonful chopped parsley ; 
mix well. This sauce is nice for broiled fish. 

CREAM CHICKEN. 

One pint of chicken which has been boiled ; mix with 
two parts bread crumbs wet with cream ; fill patty shells,, 
sprinkle the top with cracker crumbs and bits of butter; 
season with salt and pepper, then bake. 

DELICIOUS CREAMED CHICKEN. 

Place one pint of cream over the fire; thicken with a 
little flour, then add the chicken cut in small pieces, sea- 
soned with pepper, salt, and a little wine. Fill the patty 
shells with the mixture, then cover with rolled cracker and 
melted butter; bake a light brown. Fish done in this way 
is very nice. 



20 SOUVENIR COOK BOOK. 



(^^ 5ALAb5 ^^^ 



To make a perfect salad there should be a miser for oil, a spend- 
thrift for vinegar, a wise man for salt, and a madcap to stir the ingre- 
dients up and mix them well together. — Spanish Proverb. 

LOBSTER SALAD. (M. F. W.) 

Four eggs, one tablespoonful sugar, two tablespoonfuls 
butter, one teaspoonful salt, two tablespoonfuls vinegar, one 
tablespoonful mustard ; beat the whites of the eggs separately, 
and last cook in a bowl of water, stirring until it thickens ; 
when cold, add cream enough to make thin as boiled custard ; 
add salt and red pepper to the chopped lobster. 

OYSTER SALAD 

Is made by cooking oysters in as little water as possible 
to use ; drain this off when they are done, and pour over them 
a regular salad dressing. If you choose you may sprinkle 
over this celery chopped fine. 

CHICKEN SALAD. 

Equal parts of cold boiled chicken, and celery cut in 
small pieces with a sharp knife. Pour over this a salad 
dressing. 

SALMON SALAD. 

One small can of salmon, boned and picked over fine, 
one head of lettuce chopped. Take the yolks of two eggs, 
one half cupful vinegar, butter size of an ^gg, one teaspoon- 
ful sugar, one half teaspoonful red pepper, one teaspoonful 



SOUVENIR COOK BOOK. 21 

salt, one half teaspoonful mustard ; put on the fire, stirring 
until it boils ; remove from the fire and add one half cupful 
cream; boil three eggs hard, add two eggs to the salmon, 
reserving one to garnish the dish. 

CABBAGE SALAD. 

One head white cabbage chopped fine ; when done, pour 
over a regular salad dressing. 

SALAD DRESSING No. i. 

Into four tablespoonfuls of melted butter smooth one 
tablespoonful flour, add one cup milk and bring it to a boil. 
Beat together four eggs, two tablespoonfuls sugar, one of salt, 
one of mustard, and a small quantity of red pepper ; add 
three fourths of a cupful of vinegar ; pour into the hot milk 
and allow it to thicken to the consistency of cream ; strain 
and cool. 

SALAD DRESSING No. 2. 

The yolk of a raw &g^ well beaten ; add one fourth tea- 
spoonful salt, pinch of red pepper; drop by drop pour in a 
pint of best salad oil, stirring constantly ; if too thick, thin 
with vinegar or lemon juice to the consistency of cream ; 
finally add some capers. 

POTATO SALAD. 

One quart cold potatoes, one onion, a little parsley, one 
beet ; cut the potato in small pieces, chop the onion, beet, 
and parsley fine, and pour over the whole Salad Dressing 

No. I. 

MAYONNAISE DRESSING. 

The yolks of three uncooked eggs, one tablespoonful 
mustard, one half tablespoonful sugar, one teaspoonful salt, 
juice of half a lemon, one half cup of vinegar, a pint of oil, 
and a cupful of whipped cream. Beat the yolks, mustard, 



22 SOUVENIR COOK BOOK. 

sugar, and salt, until very light, adding a few drops of oil at 
a time until the dressing becomes thick ; add oil and vinegar 
until all are used ; then add the juice of the lemon, the 
whipped cream, and a thought of cayenne pepper ; place 
on ice until ready to use. 

WELSH RAREBIT. 

One half pound cheese cut in small pieces ; a piece of 
butter size of an egg put in the frying-pan ; lay in the cheese 
for about five minutes, add two eggs well beaten, a tea- 
spoonful of mixed mustard, pepper, and salt ; have ready 
several slices of toast, turn the cheese over it, and send to 
the table hot. 

DRAWN BUTTER. 

One half cup butter rubbed well with two tablespoonfuls 
flour ; put into a saucepan with about a pint of boiling water, 
stirring constantly until melted ; throw in a little parsley, and 
serve. 

OYSTER SAUCE. 

To drawn butter sauce add a pint of oysters drained 
from their liquor, and a few drops of vinegar. Let it come 
to a boil, and serve. 



SOUVENIR COOK BOOK 23 



4 YEQETABLE5 4- 



" Better is a dinner of herbs where love is, than a stalled ox and 
hatred therewith." 



ASPARAGUS ON TOAST. 

Wash and cut off the tough part. Put the remainder in 
salted boiling water; boil from ten to fifteen minutes; drain, 
season with salt, pepper, and butter, and pour over slices of 
buttered toast. 

EGG PLANT. 

Cut in thin slices and soak in cold salted water about 
two hours. Just before time to serve, dry in towels ; dip each 
piece in egg and dredge with rolled cracker ; fry to a deli- 
cate brown (in lard) ; serve as soon as fried, or it will not be 
crisp. 

WHIPPED POTATOES. 

Boil required number of potatoes ; add salt, pepper, 
butter, and milk ; whip to a cream with a fork. 

CREAMED POTATOES. 

Put one tablespoonful butter in frying-pan, and when it 
bubbles, add one tablespoonful flour, one cup hot milk, with 
salt and pepper to taste, one pint cold potatoes cut into 
small dice, one half onion ; cook until done. 



24 SOUVENIR COOK BOOK. 



<^^^ EQQ3 '^^^^ 



BOILED EGGS. 

Put them into water that boils. If you like them very 
soft, boil them three minutes ; if you wish the yolk hard, 
boil five minutes. 

FRIED EGGS. 

After you have fried ham, drop in the eggs one at a 
time ; in about a minute dip the boiling fat over them until 
done. 

DROPPED EGGS. 

Drop fresh eggs into a saucepan of boiling water with 
salt in it ; have ready slices of buttered toast ; then take up 
with a skimmer, and lay on the toast. 

EGGS A LA CREAM. 

Boil ten eggs until hard; slice in rings; in the bottom 
of a baking-dish place a layer of bread crumbs, then one of 
eggs ; cover with bits of butter, pepper, and salt, until all 
are used ; pour over them a cup of cream, and brown in the 
oven. 

OMELET. 

Beat six eggs very light, the whites to a froth, the yolks 
to a batter ; add to the yolks a cupful of milk, a little pepper 
and salt ; add the whites last, lightly ; have ready in a hot 
frying-pan a good lump of butter ; when it hisses, pour the 
mixture in gently ; it should cook ten minutes ; do not stir 
it, but when it begins to " set" slip a knife under it to pre- 
vent it burning on the bottom. 



SOUVENIR COOK BOOK. 25 



^^ PabDINQ5 fe^® 



" Expectation whirls me round ; 
Th' imaginary relish is so sweet 
That it enchants my sense." 



TAPIOCA PUDDING. 



Soak eight tablespoonfuls tapioca in a quart of warm 
milk till soft ; then add two tablespoonfuls melted butter, 
five eggs well beaten, spice, sugar, and wine to your taste ; 
bake in a buttered dish without any lining. 

HUCKLEBERRY PUDDING. 

One cup molasses, one and one half pints berries, one 
and one half pints fiour, one teaspoonful soda, one half tea- 
spoonful salt ; steam one and one half hours ; liquid sauce. 

DELICIOUS PUDDING. 

Two slices cake, one cup sugar, two eggs, one quart 
milk, cup raisins, nutmeg and cinnamon to taste ; bake one 
hour. 

BROWN BETTY. 

Put a layer of sweetened apple sauce in a buttered dish ; 
add a few lumps of butter, then a layer of cracker crumbs 
sprinkled with a little cinnamon, then a layer of sauce, etc., 
making the last layer of crumbs ; bake in oven, and eat hot 
with cold sweetened cream. 



2 6 SOUVENIR COOK BOOK. 

BREAD PUDDING. 

One quart sweet milk, quart bread crumbs, four eggs, 
four tablespoonfuls sugar; soak bread in half the milk until 
soft ; mash fine ; add rest of the milk, the well-beaten eggs 
and sugar, and a teacupful raisins ; bake one hour ; serve 
warm, with warm sauce. 

COCOANUT BREAD PUDDING. 

Soak one cup of cocoanut in one pint milk ; boil ; as 
soon as it boils, add one pint cold milk thickened with one 
tablespoonful corn starch or one powdered cracker, little 
butter, salt, three beaten eggs ; then add nutmeg and sugar to 
taste. 

STEAMED BREAD PUDDING. 

Two cups bread crumbs soaked in a little water to 
soften, one cup molasses, four full tablespoonfuls flour, one 
egg, one teaspoonful soda, two of cream tartar, fruit and 
spice to taste ; steam three hours ; eat with wine sauce. 

A DISH OF SNOW. 

Grate the white part of a cocoanut ; put in a glass dish, 
and serve with currant or cranberry jellies. 

PORK PUDDING. 

One cup sour milk, one cup molasses, one cup pork 
chopped fine, one teaspoonful soda ; mix quite stiff and 
steam two hours ; serve hot with sauce. 

DELMONICO PUDDING. 

One quart milk, one cup white sugar ; let this boil, then 
stir in four tablespoonfuls corn starch which has been dis- 
solved in a little milk, the yolks of six eggs well beaten ; 
bake twenty minutes. Beat the whites of the eggs nearly 
stiff, and add to them six tablespoonfuls white sugar ; pour 
this over the pudding, set in the oven until a delicate brown. 



SOUVENIR COOK BOOK. 27 

APPLE TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

One cup tapioca cooked over the fire in four cups water; 
add four apples quartered, one cup sugar ; season with cin- 
namon, lemon, and salt ; add a small piece of butter ; bake 
slowly until done. Serve with rich cream, 

^A/'HITE WINE PUDDING. 

Cut sponge cake into thin slices and line a deep dish; 
make it moist with white wine ; make a rich custard, using 
only the yolks of the eggs ; when cool, turn it into the dish, 
and beat the whites to a stiff froth and spread on top. 

BLUEBERRY PUDDING. 

One pint milk, three eggs, three pints berries ; if berries 
are fresh, make thin batter with flour ; if soft, make it thick. 
Steam one and one half hours in mould. 

TO BOIL RICE. 

Wash the rice thoroughly with cold water, then throw 
into a saucepan of boiling water well salted ; let it boil till the 
grains soften ; then pour the water off, cover closely to steam, 
and set back on the stove, where it remains until the grains 
separate from each other. To half a pound of rice use 
about three pints of water, 

PLAIN BAKED INDIAN PUDDING. 

Scald two quarts sweet milk ; into which stir ten rounded 
tablespoonfuls Indian meal, seven tablespoonfuls molasses, 
one teaspoonful ginger, and a little salt. Put in moderate 
oven to bake, and in half an hour stir in half cup cold milk ; 
bake in a very slow oven four hours, and a longer time will 
not injure it. Serve with cream or hot sauce. 



28 SOUVENIR COOK BOOK. 

DELICIOUS LEMON PUDDING. 

The juice and grated rind of one lemon, one cup sugar, 
yolks of two eggs, three tablespoonfuls flour, and milk enough 
to fill the dish ; line dish with paste, pour in custard, and 
bake till done ; beat whites of two eggs, add four table- 
spoonfuls sugar, spread on top, and brown. 

QUEEN PUDDING. 

One pint bread crumbs, one quart milk, yolks of four 
eggs, one lemon, sugar to taste ; bake like custard ; after 
baking, spread with jelly, then frost and brown ; liquid sauce. 

FLUMMERY. 

Bake six large apples very soft ; beat the whites of two 
eggs to a stiff froth ; then beat the soft part of the apple in 
with it, and sweeten to taste. To be eaten cold for tea. 

PUDDING. 

One pint chocolate or coffee strained, half box gelatine, 
one cup sugar, yolks of four eggs ; place all things in a pan ; 
stir until steam issues ; when cold, add one pint whipped 
cream ; pour in moulds and serve when cold. 

FAVORITE PUDDING. 

Bake common sponge cake in a flat-bottomed pudding- 
dish ; when desired for use, cut it into sixths or eighths, 
split each piece, butter them, and return them to their places 
in the dish. Make a custard with four eggs to one quart 
milk; season, sweeten to the taste, and pour it over the 
cake; bake half an hour: the cake will swell and fill the 
custard. 

ENGLISH PUDDING. 

Two eggs, one cup milk, one cup molasses, one cup 
raisins, three cups flour, one teaspoonful soda ; steam three 
hours. 



SOUVENIR COOK BOOK. 29 

BAKED RICE PUDDING. 

One quart milk, four tablespoonfuls rice, five table- 
spoonfuls sugar, salt, one egg ; bake three hours. 

SUET PUDDING. 

One cup chopped suet, one cup molasses, one cup sour 
milk, one cup raisins, four cups flour, one teaspoonful salt, 
one teaspoonful soda ; boil three hours. 

SNOW AND ICE PUDDING. 

Half a box of gelatine, one and a half pints boiling 
water, two cups sugar, juice of two lemons ; strain and set 
away to cool; make a soft custard of one pint milk, two 
eggs, one teaspoonful corn starch, two tablespoonfuls sugar, 
a little salt; when served, cut the jelly in small squares, put 
in a glass dish, and pour the custard over it. 

COCOANUT PUDDING. 

Grate one cocoanut into one quart milk, three eggs, seven 
tablespoonfuls sugar, little salt, one teaspoonful flavoring. 

ORANGE PUDDING. 

Peel and cut into thin slices six oranges; pour over them 
one coffee cup white sugar and let them stand over night ; 
in the morning take a pint of boiling milk, add the yolks of 
three eggs well beaten, one tablespoonful corn starch made 
smooth with a little milk ; stir constantly ; when cool, pour 
over the oranges ; leave the whites for frosting. 

INDIAN PUDDING. 

One quart milk, one cup flour, one cup Indian meal, one 
cup molasses, one cup sugar, one cup butter, two eggs, one 
teaspoonful salt; scald the Indian meal and flour with part 



30 SOUVENIR COOK BOOK. 

of the milk ; when it commences to thicken, remove from 
the fire ; add the remainder of the milk cold, with the other 
ingredients ; bake slowly two hours. 

COTTAGE PUDDING. 

One cup sugar, one tablespoonful butter, two eggs, one 
cup sweet milk, three cups flour, one half teaspoonful soda, 
one teaspoonful cream tartar sifted with the flour, one tea- 
spoonful salt ; eat with a liquid sauce. 

FRUIT PUDDING. 

One pint flour, one pint fruit, one teacup molasses, one 
teaspoonful soda stirred in the molasses, one teaspoonful 
salt; steam two hours. The fruit can be green, or dried, or 
canned ; pudding steamed or baked. 

IMPROMPTU DESSERT. 

Cover the bottom of a large glass dish with sliced 
orange ; strew over it powdered sugar, then a thick layer of 
cocoanut ; alternate orange and cocoanut till the dish is full, 
heaping cocoanut on top. 

COFFEE JELLY. 

One half box gelatine soaked in one half pint cold 
water ; add one pint strong coffee mixed with one half pint 
boiling water and one and a half cups sugar ; let it just come 
to a boil, then strain ; this should be served with cream, 
either whipped, frozen, or plain, cold. 

PINEAPPLE SHERBET. 

One pineapple grated, or one can of pineapple, one pint 
cold water, one pint sugar, one tablespoonful gelatine dis- 
solved in the water ; mix together and freeze. 



SOUVENIR COOK BOOK. 31 

ORANGES JELLIED. 

Six large oranges ; cut a hole in the top of each, large 
enough to admit the bowl of a small spoon, and carefully 
remove all the juice and pulp ; take the juice of one lemon, 
the orange pulp, one and a half cups sugar, one half box 
gelatine, and one half cup cold water ; soak together for half 
an hour ; place all in a sauce-pan, pour in a cup of boiling 
water, and let stand on the stove until the mixture is well 
dissolved ; strain through a bag ; fill the orange skins, put 
on the tops, and set away to cool and harden ; the next 
day cut each orange in two with a very sharp knife ; serve 
one half orange to each person. 

ITALIAN CREAM. 

One half box gelatine, one quart milk, yolks of three 
eggs, three large tablespoonfuls sugar ; cook all together in 
a boiler ; beat the whites stiff and pour the custard over 
them; beat all together; two tablespoonfuls flavoring; turn 
into moulds to cool. 

NELLIE RUSSE. 

Soak one fourth package gelatine in one pint milk one 
hour; put on the stove and let it come to a boil ; stir in the 
beaten yolks of three eggs, with half cup sugar; cook till it 
thickens, then take off the stove and stir in lightly the whites 
beaten to a stiff froth. 

WHIPPED CREAM. 

One and a half pints good rich cream sweetened and 
flavored to taste, three teaspoonfuls vanilla; whip to a stiff 
froth ; dissolve three fourths of an ounce best gelatine in 
a small teacupful hot water, and when cool pour into the 
cream ; stir thoroughly ; pour into moulds and set on ice, or 
in a very cool place. 



2,2 SOUVENIR COOK BOOK. 

STRAWBERRY CREAM. 

One quart strawberries rubbed through a hair sieve ; 
mix with three pints rich cream, and sweeten ; whip to a 
froth, and add half an ounce dissolved gelatine. 

TAPIOCA FLOAT. 

Four tablespoonfuls tapioca soaked over night in a little 
water ; in the morning add one cup sugar, three eggs, and a 
little salt ; heat the milk, add the tapioca, and boil twenty 
minutes ; beat the yolks of the eggs with the sugar, add the 
salt, and stir into the milk ; boil five minutes ; pour into a 
dish ; beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, then add 
two tablespoonfuls sugar ; frost, and set in the oven until a 
delicate brown. 

FRUIT HARLEQUIN. 

One pineapple pared and sliced thin, one box straw- 
berries, four oranges sliced, a half dozen bananas sliced ; put 
in a sauce dish a layer of pineapple, one of strawberries, 
one of oranges, one of bananas, then one of strawberries ; 
sprinkle each layer with sugar, and over the whole squeeze 
the juice of a lemon ; prepare this in the morning, and it 
will be ready for tea. 

FROZEN PEACHES. 

One quart milk, four eggs ; beat the yolks and one and 
a half cups of sugar; scald the milk and stir the yolks and 
sugar into it ; remove when thick and put in the whites of 
the eggs, well beaten ; when cold, stir in a quart of cream, 
then a quart of either fresh or preserved peaches rubbed 
through a sieve ; place in a freezer and freeze. 

PEACHES AND CREAM. 

Peel, slice, and heap up in a glass dessert dish, and 
serve raw with fine sugar and cream. 



SOUVENIR COOK BOOK. 33: 

STRAWBERRY JELLY. 

Soak one box gelatine in half a pint cold water twenty 
minutes ; add one pint boiling water ; stir until dissolved ; 
add a cup of sugar, strained juice of one and a half pints 
strawberries, and juice of one lemon. 

FLOATING ISLAND. 

One quart milk, six eggs (whites and yolks beaten sep- 
arately), five tablespoonfuls (heaping) white sugar, two table- 
spoonfuls extract bitter almond or vanilla, half a cup cur- 
rant jelly; beat the yolks well, stir in the sugar, and add 
the hot (not boiling) milk, a little at a time ; boil until it 
begins to thicken ; when cool, flavor and pour into a glass 
dish, first stirring it up well ; heap upon it a meringue of the 
whites, into which you have beaten gradually half a cup cur- 
rant jelly; dot with bits of jelly cut into rings or straight 
slips. 

LEMON JELLY. 

Soak half a box gelatine one hour in half a pint water ; 
add the juice of three lemons and one pound sugar; pour 
on one pint boiling water, strain through a cloth, and let 
it stand over night ; never fails. 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 

Line two medium sized moulds with cake ; then beat 
two eggs, put in a teacupful pulverized sugar, flavor to taste ;. 
whip a pint sweet cream ; have a third of a package of gela- 
tine soaked in a cup of milk ; put all together and pour 
into moulds ; let it stand a little while before ready for 
eating. 

MAY'S PEACH PUDDING. 

One pint canned peaches frosted with the whites of four 
eggs; put into the oven and brown; serve with rich cream, 
and powdered sugar. 



34 SOUVENIR COOK BOOK. 

FROZEN PUDDING. 

Make a soft custard of eight eggs and one quart milk, 
leaving out the whites of four of the eggs ; add one half cup 
currants, one half cup raisins, one half cup sliced citron ; let 
it cool, and add candied or preserved cherries, strawberries, 
a little raspberry jam, one pint whipped cream, the whipped 
whites of the eggs, and sugar to taste ; freeze. 

SPANISH CREAM. 

Soak one third of a box of gelatine two hours in a gill of 
cold milk taken from a quart, and set in a cool place; then 
stir the gelatine into the remainder of the milk, which must 
be boiling. Have in readiness a cream made of a teacupful 
sugar well beaten into three eggs and seasoned with a pinch 
of salt ; stir this into the liquid until the latter almost, but 
not quite boils ; remove from the fire and beat in any flavor- 
ing desired (a teaspoonful of some good extract being suffi- 
cient). Strain through soup sieve into a wet mould, and set 
in a cool place. Serve with sugar and cream, or with any 
cold liquid sauce. 

BAKED INDIAN PUDDING. 

One quart milk, one scant cup Indian meal, one half 
cup molasses, two eggs, butter size of an Qgg., one teaspoon- 
ful cinnamon, a little salt, and ginger ; wet the meal with 
cold water and pour the boiling milk over it ; when cold, 
add the other ingredients, and bake half an hour. 

BERNIE'S SHERBET. 

One pint sugar, juice of two lemons, beaten together ; 
one teaspoonful extract of lemon ; pour into the freezer and 
add one quart rich milk ; then freeze. 

ORANGE CREAM. 

One pint cream, one pint milk, one cup sugar, two eggs ; 
flavor with orange and vanilla; freeze. 



SOUVENIR COOK BOQK. 35 

ICE CREAM. 

Take three pints milk and bring to a boil ; add six eggs 
well beaten with two cups of sugar ; stir until it thickens like 
soft custard ; when cool, add one quart cream and one cup 
sugar ; flavor and freeze. 

FROZEN PEACHES. 

Take one quart peaches, peeled and sliced ; sprinkle 
with half a pound of sugar, and let stand two hours ; mash 
fine, add one quart cold water, and freeze the same as ice 
cream. 

STRAWBERRY OR RASPBERRY CREAM. 

Bruise a pint of raspberries or strawberries with two 
large tablespoonfuls fine sugar; add a quart of cream; 
strain through a sieve, and freeze it. 

RICH CREAM. 

Squeeze a dozen lemons and strain the juice upon as 
much fine sugar as it will absorb ; pour three quarts cream 
into it very slowly, stirring very fast all the time. 



$6 SOUVENIR COOK BOOK. 



^ PCJDDINQ 5ACJCE5 ^ 



" To be good, be useful. To be useful, always be making some- 
thing good." 

WHITE SAUCE. 

One cup sugar, one ^gg — white and yolk beaten sep- 
arately; beat the sugar and yolk together; add four table- 
spoonfuls boiling milk, and lastly the beaten white of the 

egg. 

EGG SAUCE. 

Two eggs, half a teacupful sugar, three tablespoonfuls 
boiling water ; flavoring ; beat long and hard. 

STRAWBERRY SAUCE. 

Beat half a cup butter to a cream ; add one cup pow- 
dered sugar and the beaten white of an ^gg ; then beat in 
two cups of berries. 

HARD SAUCE. 

Beat butter and sugar to a cream ; add the white of one 
egg beaten to a froth, and flavor. 

LEMON SAUCE. 

One cup sugar, half a cup butter, one egg, one lemon 
(the juice and grated rind), one teaspoonful nutmeg, three 
tablespoonfuls boiling water ; cream the butter and sugar; 
beat in the ^gg whipped light, the lemon and nutmeg; beat 
hard, and add a teaspoonful at a time to the boiling water ; 



SOUVENIR COOK BOOK. 37 

put into a tin pail and set into the uncovered top of the tea- 
kettle, which must be kept boiling until the steam heats the 
sauce very hot, but not to boiling ; stir constantly. 

EGG SAUCE. 

One ^g^ well beaten, one cup powdered sugar, three 
tablespoonfuls boiled milk ; flavor. 

FOAMING SAUCE. 

One half cup butter, one half cup sugar, one half cup 
wine (hot), one &gg\ beat together butter and sugar, break 
the egg and beat it to a foam, beating all one way ; then stir 
in wine hot, and melt on the stove. Be careful not to let it 
boil. 

VINEGAR SAUCE. 

One and a half cups sugar, one and a half tablespoon- 
fuls flour in a little water, two tablespoonfuls vinegar, quar- 
ter of a grated nutmeg, and a pinch of salt ; pour over this 
one and a half pints boiling water, and boil ten minutes ; 
just before taking from the stove add one tablespoonful 
butter. 

WHIPPED CREAM SAUCE. 

Whip a pint of rich cream, add the beaten whites of two 
eggs, sweeten to taste, and flavor. 



SS SOUVENIR COOK BOOK. 



FA5TRY 



" An't please your honour," quoth the peasant, 
"This same dessert is very pleasant." — Pope. 

PIE CRUST. 

Take four cups pastry flour, one cup lard, and one half 
teaspoonful salt ; work the lard into the flour with a knife 
until it is fine like meal. Mix with ice water, pouring on a 
little at a time, until enough water has been added to wet it 
together. Put the dough upon the board and flatten ; when 
half an inch thick, put on small bits of lard, sprinkle on a 
little flour, cut into four strips ; pile one upon the other, 
placing the last one bottom side up ; with the rolling pin 
pound briskly ; roll again, sprinkle with lard and flour, 
pound, then roll up as you would for jelly cake, and it is 
ready to use. 

APPLE PIE. 

Pare and cut into slices ; place a row of slices around 
the plate one half inch from the edge ; fill the center, putting 
on the top slices evenly ; sprinkle on a little salt, cinnamon, 
nutmeg, and a cup of sugar, with pieces of butter. Before 
putting into the oven wet the crust with milk. 

GRANDMA'S APPLE PUFFS. 

Pare and stew four apples ; when done, add sugar, nut- 
meg, and lemon to taste. Make a rich crust, roll thin, cut in 
squares, fill with the apple, sprinkle with sugar. Bake a light 
brown. 



SOUVENIR COOK BOOK. 3^ 

LEMON PIE. 

One cup hot water, one tablespoonful corn starch, one 
cup sugar, one tablespoonful butter, the juice and grated 
rind of one lemon ; cook for a few moments ; add one egg, 
and bake with top and bottom crust. 

CORA'S LEMON PIE. 

Two eggs, one and a half cups sugar, the juice and rind 
of two lemons, a small piece of butter, two tablespoonfuls 
flour, one fourth cup water, a little salt. Bake in two crusts. 

CURRANT PIE. 

One cup ripe currants, one cup sugar, one egg ; beat 
well together, and bake between two crusts. 

HOTEL PIE. 

Let two cupfuls of water come to a boil, then put in two 
tablespoonfuls corn starch dissolved in a little milk ; when it 
has boiled enough, take from the stove, add the juice and 
rind of two lemons, two cupfuls sugar, a piece of butter size 
of a nutmeg, and the yolks of two eggs ; use the whites for 
frosting. 

COCOANUT PIE. 

One pint milk, one cup cocoanut, one tablespoonful 
corn starch, three eggs ; sweeten to taste. Make a meringue 
of the whites of the eggs and four tablespoonfuls powdered 
sugar. 

LEMON MERINGUE PIE. 

Two lemons, grate the rind, remove the skin, and chop 
the rest very fine ; into one cup hot water stir well one table- 
spoonful corn starch, and boil ; when cool, add one cup sugar, 
yolks of three eggs, and the chopped lemon ; stir well ; line 
one plate with crust, pour in the mixture ; when baked, cover 
with a meringue made with the whites of the eggs and three 
tablespoonfuls of sugar ; brown. 



40 SOUVENIR COOK BOOK. 

MINCE PIE. 

Three bowls finely chopped meat, three bowls chopped 
apples, one bowl suet, one bowl of citron cut fine, two of 
raisins, four of sugar, one of molasses, one of boiled cider, 
one of some kind of preserve syrup ; add one tablespoonful 
cinnamon, cloves, and mace, two nutmegs, one tablespoon- 
ful salt. 

CREAM PIE. 

One pint milk scalded, two tablespoonfuls corn starch, 
three tablespoonfuls sugar, yolks of two eggs ; wet the starch 
in a little cold milk ; beat the eggs and sugar until light, and 
stir the whole into the hot milk. Flavor with lemon or 
vanilla, and set aside to cool. Line a plate with pie crust 
and bake ; when done, make a frosting with the whites of the 
eggs and a tablespoonful of sugar; brown. 

WASHINGTON CREAM PIE. 

Three eggs, one cup sugar, one cup flour, two table- 
spoonfuls cold water, two teaspoonfuls baking powder ; beat 
all together five minutes ; add salt, and flavor; when done, 
split open ; whip a pint of cream and fill ; this makes two 
pies. 

CUSTARD PIE. 

One pint milk, three eggs, half a tablespoonful corn 
starch, half cup sugar ; strain and flavor, 

RICH MINCE PIE. 

Two pounds meat boiled, one half pound suet (boil it), 
two pounds currants, four pounds raisins, four pounds apples, 
four pounds sugar, one pound citron, two teaspoonfuls salt, 
two nutmegs, one half ounce cloves, cinnamon, juice of six 
lemons, one half pint rosewater; wet it well with vinegar, 
half pint brandy, one pint molasses. This will keep months. 



SOUVENIR COOK BOOK. 41 

WHIPPED CREAM PIE. 

Three eggs, one cup sugar, one and a half cups flour, 
one half cup milk, two teaspoonfuls cream tartar, one tea- 
spoonful soda. Makes two pies. Cream. — Two cups thick 
cream, one small cup powdered sugar, and one teaspoonful 
vanilla ; beat stiff. 

SQUASH PIE. 

One cup of squash sifted, one full half cup sugar, two 
eggs well beaten, one half teaspoonful salt, small piece but- 
ter ; season with nutmeg, cinnamon, and ginger ; milk enough 
to fill a pie of medium size. 



42 SOUVENIR COOK BOOK. 



CAKE 



" She measured out the butter with a very solemn air; 
The milk and sugar also ; and she took the greatest care 
To count her eggs correctly, and to add a little bit 
Of baking powder, which, you know, beginners oft omit. 
Then she stirred it all together, and she baked it full an hour; 
But she never quite forgave herself for leaving out the flour." 

— From Judge. 

WALNUT DROPS. 

One cup of slightly chopped walnut meats, two eggs, one 
cup sugar, three tablespoonfuls flour ; drop small spoonfuls 
in a buttered pan, several inches apart ; bake in a quick 
oven. 

MARBLED CAKE. 

One cup butter, two cups powdered sugar, three cups 
flour, four eggs, one cup sweet milk, half a teaspoonful soda, 
one teaspoonful cream tartar sifted with the flour. When 
the cake is mixed, take out about a teacupful of the batter, 
and stir into this a great spoonful of grated chocolate wet 
with a scant tablespoonful of milk. Fill your mould about 
an inch deep with the yellow batter, and drop upon this in 
two or three places a spoonful of the dark mixture. 

SPICE CAKE. 



e 



One cup butter, two cups sugar, three cups flour, four 
ggs, two tablespoonfuls sour milk, one teaspoonful soda, 
two teaspoonfuls cinnamon, one teaspoonful cloves and nut- 
meg, one cup raisins. 



SOUVENIR COOK BOOK. 43 

RAISIN SMASH. 

Beat the whites of three eggs to a stiff froth, adding a 
cup and a half of pulverized sugar, a large cup of seedless 
chopped raisins, and a few blanched and minced almonds ; 
flavor with vanilla. For this icing prepare a cake as follows : 
Take two cups sugar, two of flour, and one of sweet milk ; 
add three teaspoonfuls of baking powder. Bake in two 
square tin pans. Place one layer over the other with the 
raisin smash icing, prepared as above, between them. 

AUNT MARY'S FRUIT CAKE. 

One cup butter, two cups sugar, three cups flour, five 
eggs, one half cup molasses, one half teaspoonful soda, two 
pounds raisins, one pound citron, one pound currants, two 
teaspoonfuls cinnamon, one teaspoonful cloves and nutmeg. 
Bake one and a half hours. 

SILVER CAKE. 

Two cups pulverized sugar, one cup butter, whites of 
six eggs, one half cup sweet milk, one teaspoonful baking 
powder, three light cups flour, or two and a half cups ; flavor. 

GOLD CAKE. 

One cup butter, yolks of six eggs and one whole one, 
one and a half cups sugar, one small half cup sweet milk, 
two and a half cups flour, one teaspoonful baking powder, or 
two of cream tartar and one of soda ; flavor. 

MARBLE CAKE. 

For the white cake. — One cup butter, three cups 
white sugar, five cups flour even full, one half cup sweet 
milk, one half teaspoonful soda, whites of eight eggs, flavor 
with lemon. 

For the dark cake. — One cup butter, two cups brown 
sugar, one cup molasses, one cup sour milk, one teaspoonful 



44 SOUVENIR COOK BOOK. 

soda, four cups flour, yolks of eight eggs, and one whole egg ; 
spices of all kinds. Put in pans, first a layer of dark, then a 
layer of white, and so on, finishing with a dark layer. Bake 
in a hot oven. 

ANGEL CAKE. 

Whites of seven eggs beaten to a stiff froth, one cup 
sugar, two thirds cup flour, one half teaspoonful cream tartar 
sifted four times with the flour, one teaspoonful vanilla or 
lemon. 

ELECTION CAKE. 

One cup sugar, one half cup butter, one egg, one cup 
sweet milk, two and a half cups pastry flour, one cup stoned 
raisins, one teaspoonful soda, and one teaspoonful cinnamon 
and cloves. 

ADDIE'S GOLD CAKE. 

Two cups not quite full of flour, the yolks of four eggs, 
one cup sugar, one half cup butter, one half cup sweet milk, 
one half teaspoonful soda, one teaspoonful cream tartar. 
Flavor to taste. 

"DOLLIE VARDEN'S" CAKE. 

One cup sugar and one half cup butter beaten to a 
cream, whites of three eggs beaten to a froth, one half cup 
sweet milk, two cups flour, two teaspoonfuls baking powder ; 
beat the yolks with fifteen teaspoonfuls of sugar, and put on 
top while hot for icing. 

•* MINUTE MAN" CAKE. 

Two cups sugar, two thirds cup butter, whites of seven 
eggs well beaten, two thirds cup sweet milk, two cups flour, 
one cup maizena, two teaspoonfuls Royal baking powder. 
Bake in jelly tins. 



SOUVENIR COOK BOOK. 45 

FROSTING. 

Whites of three eggs and sugar beaten together, not 
quite as stiff as usual frosting. Spread over the cake, then 
add sfrated cocoanut. 



&' 



CHEAP RAISIN CAKE. 

One cup sugar, one half cup molasses, one ^gg^ piece 
butter size of an ^gg^ three fourths cup rich butter-milk, 
coffee cup raisins, one teaspoonful soda, one teaspoonful 
cloves, one teaspoonful cinnamon. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

Six eggs, cup and a half of sugar, cup and a half of floury 
a little salt, and flavoring. 

CREAM SPONGE CAKE. 

Beat two eggs in a coffee cup, fill the cup with cream,, 
add one cup sugar, one of flour, one teaspoonful cream 
tartar, one half teaspoonful soda ; flavor with lemon. 

RIBBON CAKE. 

One and a fourth cups sugar and half cup butter beaten 
together, three well-beaten eggs, two thirds cup sweet milk,, 
two cups flour, one teaspoonful cream tartar, one half tea- 
spoonful soda. Reserve two cups of this mixture for top 
and bottom cakes ; to the remainder add one teaspoonful 
each of cinnamon and cloves, half a nutmeg, two tablespoon- 
fuls molasses, one cup fruit, half cup flour. Bake in three 
cakes ; place them together, the dark one in the centre, with 
jelly or frosting between ; the top can be frosted if desired. 

HOTEL COOKIES. 

Two eggs, one cup sugar, one half cup butter, four table- 
spoonfuls milk, one teaspoonful cream tartar, one half tea- 
spoonful soda, one tablespoonful caraway seeds ; flour to rolL 



46 SOUVENIR COOK BOOK. 

WATER SPONGE. 

Three eggs beaten four minutes; add one and a half 
cups sugar, beat one minute ; one cup liour, one half cup 
cold water, one cup flour, two teaspoonfuls cream tartar, one 
teaspoonful soda. 

COCOANUT COOKIES. 

One cup sugar, one half cup butter, one ^^g^ one fourth 
cup milk, one cup cocoanut, one teaspoonful cream tartar, 
one half teaspoonful soda, flour to roll. 

CREAM COOKIES. 

Two cups sour cream, two cups sugar, one large tea- 
spoonful soda, a little nutmeg and salt, flour to roll. 

HARD SUGAR CAKES. 

Two cups sugar, one cup butter (don't melt it), three 
eggs, one teaspoonful soda, three tablespoonfuls cold water ; 
roll thin, and bake quick. 

IMPERIAL CAKE. 

One pound sugar, one pound flour, three fourths pound 
butter, one pound almonds blanched and cut fine, one half 
pound citron, one half pound raisins stoned and cut in 
pieces, rind and juice of lemon, one nutmeg, ten eggs 
beaten separate. 

FRUIT CAKE. 

One pound butter, one pound sugar, one pound flour, 
three pounds raisins, three pounds currants, one pound cit- 
ron, ten eggs, two wine glasses of brandy, two tablespoonfuls 
cloves and mace, one teaspoonful soda. 



SOUVENIR COOK BOOK. 47 

ADDIE'S CHOCOLATE JUMBLES. 

One cup butter, two cups sugar, two cups grated choco- 
late, three cups flour, four eggs, teaspoonful soda, two tea- 
spoonfuls cream tartar, a little salt ; roll thin, and bake in a 
moderate oven. 

FRUIT CAKE. 

One cup butter, two cups sugar, one cup molasses, one 
cup milk, five eggs, five cups flour, one teaspoonful soda, 
spice of all kinds, one pound raisins, one pound currants, 
one half pound citron. 

HELEN'S CAKE. 

Four eggs, one and a half cups butter, one cup sugar, 
two cups molasses, one half cup sour milk, five cups flour, 
one heaping teaspoonful cinnamon, one teaspoonful cloves, 
one teaspoonful nutmeg ; bake three hours. 

ALMOND CAKE. 

One half cup butter and two of sugar, three fourths cup 
sweet milk, two and a half cups flour, one teaspoonful soda, 
one heaping teaspoonful cream tartar, whites of six eggs, and 
one pound of blanched almonds. 

ANGEL CAKE. 

The whites of eleven eggs beaten to a stiff froth, one 
and a half cups powdered sugar sifted into the egg, one cup 
flour, one small teaspoonful cream tartar, same of bitter 
almonds, little salt ; beat the eggs, sugar and flavoring ; sift 
the flour four times, adding the cream tartar the last time ; 
bake from forty to sixty minutes in a slow oven ; sift the 
flour before measuring. The success of this cake depends 
on its being well beaten. It should be baked in a chimney 
mould. Turn upside down in a colander to cool, then coax 
out gently ; do not butter the mould. 



48 SOUVENIR COOK BOOK. 

UNION CAKE. 

Four eggs, one cup butter, two cups sugar, four cups 
flour, one and a half teaspoonfuls cream tartar, one teaspoon- 
ful soda in half a cup milk ; flavor with nutmeg. 

BESSIE'S CAKE. 

Two thirds cup butter beaten to a cream, one half cup 
white sugar, two thirds cup milk, whites of three eggs, one 
teaspoonful cream tartar, half teaspoonful soda, two heaping 
cups flour ; add milk and flour alternately, lastly whites ; 
flavor with almond. 

FRANK'S WASHINGTON PIE. 

One scant cup sugar, one half cup butter, two eggs, one 
fourth cup milk, one and a half cups flour, one teaspoonful 
cream tartar, one half teaspoonful soda. 

MAY L.'S CLOVE CAKE. 

One cup sugar, one half cup butter, two cups flour, 
three fourths cup milk, two eggs, one teaspoonful cream 
tartar, one half teaspoonful soda, one cup raisins. 

VANILLA JUMBLES. 

One cup butter, one cup sugar, two eggs, one teaspoon- 
ful soda dissolved in two tablespoonfuls sweet milk, two tea- 
spoonfuls cream tartar, two teaspoonfuls vanilla ; mix soft 
and roll. 

FILLING FOR WALNUT CAKE. 

One cup rolled walnut meats, one cup sweet cream, one 
half cup sugar ; stir in two teaspoonfuls corn starch ; let all 
cook together until thickened, then add meats. 



SOUVENIR COOK BOOK. 49 

GRANDPA'S CAKE. 

Three eggs, two cups sugar, three cups flour, one cup 
butter, one cup milk, one teaspoonful cream tartar, one half 
teaspoonful soda, one fourth of a nutmeg grated, pinch salt. 

GRACE'S SUGAR COOKIES. 

Two eggs, two cups sugar, one cup butter, one teaspoon- 
ful soda, six tablespoonfuls sour cream, a little salt if you 
choose, flavoring. 

WHITE CAKE. 

Rub half cup butter until creamy, slowly add one cup 
sugar, then alternately half cup milk and two cups flour 
in which two teaspoonfuls baking powder have been sifted ; 
flavor with almond or lemon juice ; last, fold in the stiffly 
beaten whites of four eggs ; bake in three shallow pans of 
the same size, and put together with the following. 

LEMON FILLING. 

Mix a heaping tablespoonful corn starch with one quar- 
ter cup cold water, and stir into half cup boiling water ; stir 
till it thickens ; add half cup sugar, the beaten yolks of two 
eggs, and the juice of one large lemon — the grated rind 
may be used also ; one teaspoonful butter may be added. 
A double boiler, or one saucepan set in another of water 
should be used. When beginning to cool, spread between 
the cakes and leave several hours. 

FILLING FOR ORANGE CAKE. 

Whites of three eggs, juice of one orange, fifteen table- 
spoonfuls sugar ; beat together, spread between layers and 
outside of cake ; pare and pull in pieces two oranges, put 
on top of cake. 



so SOUVENIR COOK BOOK. 



SNAP DOODLE. 



One &gg^ one cup powdered sugar, butter size of a wal- 
nut, one cup milk, two cups flour, three teaspoonfuls baking 
powder ; beat very light, pour into a dripping pan ; after the 
cake is done, sift powdered sugar over the top, and over that 
chocolate or cocoanut ; bake twenty minutes in a hot oven ; 
stir the &^g^ sugar, and butter well together. 

NAPOLIANS. 

Puff paste cut into pieces about four inches by three, 
put together with fruit, chocolate, or jelly ; frost, and add 
blanched almonds. 

FEATHER CAKE. 

One scant cup sugar, one half cup milk, two small table- 
spoonfuls butter, one egg, one large heaping cup flour, one 
teaspoonful cream tartar, one half teaspoonful soda. 

SILVER CAKE. 

Whites of six eggs, two and a half cups sugar, one cup 
butter, one cup sweet milk, three and a half cups flour, one 
teaspoonful cream tartar, one half teaspoonful soda, flavor 
to taste ; stir it well. 

STELLA'S YELLOW SPONGE CAKE. 

One pound sugar, and yolks of ten eggs beat thoroughly ; 
then beat the whites and mix , thoroughly with flavoring and 
a little salt, one half pound flour ; stir as little as possible. 

EXCELLENT CAKE. 

One pound sugar, one half pound butter, one pound 
flour, one cup milk, six eggs, one teaspoonful soda, two tea- 
spoonfuls cream tartar. 



SOUVENIR COOK BOOK. 51 

CARRIE'S JELLY CAKE. 

Three eggs, one cup sugar, one tablespoonful butter, 
three tablespoonfuls milk, one coffee cup flour, three tea- 
spoonfuls baking powder. 

WHITE CITRON CAKE. 

Two cups sugar, half cup buiter, whiles of four eggs, 
one cup cold water, three cups sifted flour, two teaspoonfuls 
baking powder, one and a half teacupfuls sliced citron ; work 
butter and sugar to a cream, add the water, then two cups 
flour and one half the ^gg^ which has been beaten to a froth : 
stir well, then add the rest of the flour, into which has been 
mixed the baking powder, and lastly the remainder of the 
Qgg beaten well ; add citron, and beat again. 

COFFEE CAKE. 

One cup brown sugar, one cup butter, one cup strained 
coffee, one cup molasses, three eggs, one pound raisins, two 
cups flour, two teaspoonfuls baking powder. 

LIZZETTE'S WHIST CAKE. 

One cup butter, two cups sugar, eight eggs dropped in 
two at a time, two large spoonfuls milk, two cups flour, one 
and a half teaspoonfuls cream tartar, one fourth teaspoonful 
soda ; flavor to taste. Makes two loaves. 

BUTTER CAKE. 

One cup butter, one cup sugar, four eggs, one cup flour ; 
flavor with lemon, 

CUP CAKE. 

Five eggs, one cup butter, two cups sugar, one cup 
milk, four cups flour, one teaspoonful soda, a little nutmeg, 
and fruit if vou like. 



52 SOUVENIR COOK BOOK. 



MYRA'S NUT CAKE. 

Two thirds cup butter, two cups sugar, beaten ; add 
yolks three eggs, one cup flour with two teaspoonfuls baking 
powder, one cup milk, two cups flour, with a large cup nuts ; 
then add the whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff froth ; frost, 
cut in squares, and put a half nut on each square. 

FIG CAKE. 

Two cups sugar, one cup butter, four eggs, one cup 
milk, three cups flour, one teaspoonful soda, two teaspoon- 
fuls cream tartar, one half pound figs. 

COFFEE CAKE. 

Two cups brown sugar, one cup molasses, one and a half 
cups butter, five cups flour, one of strong coffee, four eggs, 
three tablespoonfuls cinnamon, one tablespoonful cloves, 
one tablespoonful soda, one pound raisins, one half pound 
currants. 

ARROWHEAD CAKE. 

One cup butter, two of sugar, three eggs, one cup sweet 
milk, three cups flour, three teaspoonfuls baking powder, 
flavor; never fails ; good for all kinds of layer cake. 

COFFEE CAKE. 

Five eggs, two cups sugar, one cup molasses, one full 
cup butter, one cup cold coffee, five cups flour, one teaspoon- 
ful soda ; fruit and spice. 

EMMA'S WHITE CAKE. 

Two cups sugar, one cup butter, one cup sweet milk, 
three and a half cups flour, three teaspoonfuls baking pow- 
der, whites of eight eggs. 



SOUVENIR COOK BOOK. 53 

APPLE FILLING FOR LAYER CAKE. 

One large or two small apples grated, one lemon grated 
(rind and juice), one teacupful pulverized sugar; mix to- 
gether, and set it on the stove five minutes. 

PORK CAKE. 

One pound salt pork chopped fine ; let it boil two min- 
utes in one half pint water ; one cup molasses, two cups 
sugar, three eggs, two teaspoonfuls soda, one pound raisins 
chopped fine ; add nutmeg, cinnamon, and cloves to taste ; 
flour to make a stiff batter. 

MRS. C.'S SPONGE CAKE. 

Two cups powdered sugar, two cups pastry flour, juice 
of one lemon, ten eggs ; yolks and sugar beaten together ; 
the lemon put in the last thing. Bake one hour. 

MRS. T.'S WHITE CAKE. 

One and a half cups flour, one cup sugar, one half cup 
milk, one large tablespoonful butter, whites of three eggs, 
two teaspoonfuls baking powder ; flavor. 

EVELYN'S CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

One cup sugar, two eggs, one fourth cup butter, one 
fourth cup milk, one heaping cup flour, one half cup grated 
chocolate dissolved in one fourth cup boiling water, with one 
teaspoonful vanilla, one half teaspoonful soda, one teaspoon- 
ful cream tartar. 

FROSTING. 

One cup sugar, one half cup milk, butter size of nut- 
meg ; boil ten minutes, and beat till cold, when it will be 
like whipped cream. When cold, pour melted chocolate over 
all ; cut in squares and put walnuts on top. Use coffee cups 
for all measuring. 



54 SOUVENIR COOK BOOK. 

CREAM CAKE. 

Two eggs, one cup sugar, one half cup sweet cream, one 
and a half cups flour, two teaspoonfuls baking powder. 

MRS. W.'S SPONGE CAKE. 

Three gills powdered sugar, one half pint pastry flour, 
five eggs, the juice and grated rind of half a lemon, a little 
salt ; beat the sugar and yolks of the eggs together, then beat 
the whites to a stiff froth ; add the whites, then the flour, 
lastly the lemon. Bake one half hour in a moderate oven. 

ROLL JELLY CAKE. 

One cup sugar, three eggs, two teaspoonfuls warm but- 
ter, three tablespoonfuls milk, one and a half teaspoonfuls 
baking powder, one cup flour. Beat eggs, sugar, and butter 
together ; put baking powder into flour and sift, then add the 
milk. Bake in flat pans ; spread with jelly, and roll. 

EMMA'S JELLY ROLL. 

One cup sugar, four eggs, one cup flour, one half tea- 
spoonful soda, one teaspoonful cream tartar, pinch of salt ; 
bake in a flat pan ; spread with jelly, and roll. 

FROSTING FOR CAKE. 

Beat the whites of one or more eggs to a stiff froth ; 
add five rounding tablespoonfuls powdered sugar for each 
egg, and beat again. Spread before the cake is entirely cold. 

MILK FROSTING. 

Boil two cups of sugar and three fourths cup milk nine 
minutes; whip until cool. 



SOUVENIR COOK BOOK. 55 

MRS. H.'S CHOCOLATE FROSTING. 

For the white of one &gg use one half square of Baker's 
chocolate and four tablespoonfuls sugar. Melt the choco- 
late over steam, add gradually the sugar, beat the white of 
the egg to a stiff froth, then beat this into the melted choco- 
late ; flavor with vanilla. 

COCOANUT FROSTING. 

White of one egg, nine teaspoonfuls sugar ; spread on 
the cake, and strew thickly with cocoanut. 

HELEN'S COOKIES. 

One and a half cups sugar, one cup butter, two eggs, 
one teaspoonful cream tartar, one half teaspoonful soda, a 
little nutmeg, flour to roll. 

LEMON SNAPS. 

One large cup sugar, two thirds cup butter, half tea- 
spoonful soda dissolved in two teaspoonfuls hot water, flour 
enough to roll thin ; flavor with lemon. 

EGG ROCK CAKE. 

One cup sugar, four eggs, one cup flour, one teaspoonful 
soda, two of cream tartar ; bake in round tins. Frost both 
cakes; for the top cake use equal parts of the chocolate 
frosting and the white filling; for the bottom cake use choco- 
late frosting. Put the cakes together with the white filling 
between. 

White filling. — White of an egg and one half cup 
powdered sugar ; flavor with pineapple. 

CHOCOLATE FROSTING. 

One square of Baker's chocolate, the white of one egg, 
one cup powdered sugar, two tablespoonfuls boiling water ; 
beat two thirds of a cupful of sugar into the unbeaten white 



56 SOUVENIR COOK BOOK. 

of the ^gg\ scrape the chocolate and put it, and the remain- 
ing third of a cupful of sugar, and the water, into a small 
frying pan. Stir over a hot fire until smooth and glossy, 
and then stir into the beaten white and sugar. 

EDNA'S CAKE. 

Half a cup butter, one cup sugar, two cups flour, four 
eggs, one teaspoonful cream tartar, half a teaspoonful soda, 
dissolved in half a cup milk. 

GINGER SNAPS. 

One cup butter, one cup each sugar and molasses, boiled 
together a minute or two ; one teaspoonful soda dissolved in a 
quarter of a cupful of boiling water, flour to roll ; flavor with 
ginger. 

MOLLIES GINGER SNAPS. 

One cup molasses, one half cup butter, boiled a few 
minutes ; add one teaspoonful soda, a little ginger, flour 
to roll. 

MOLASSES CAKE. 

Two eggs, one cup molasses, one cup sour cream, one 
teaspoonful soda, nutmeg, little salt ; makes two cakes on 
round tins. 

PLAIN GINGERBREAD. 

One cup molasses, one half cup butter, one half cup 
sweet milk, one egg, one teaspoonful soda, two and a half 
cups flour. 

HARD SUGAR GINGERBREAD. 

Two eggs, one and a half cups sugar, one half cup milk, 
one cup melted butter, two teaspoonfuls ginger, one small 
teaspoonful soda, flour to roll. 



SOUVENIR COOK BOOK. 57 

MOLASSES DROP CAKES. 

One cup molasses, one half cup sugar, one cup sweet 
milk, two eggs, butter size of an ^gg., one teaspoonful soda, 
with a little ginger and nutmeg. 

SOFT GINGERBREAD. 

One cup butter, one cup molasses, one cup sugar, one 
cup sour milk or buttermilk, one teaspoonful soda dissolved 
in boiling water, one tablespoonful ginger, one teaspoonful 
cinnamon, two eggs, about live cups flour — enough to make 
it thick as cup-cake batter, perhaps a trifle thicker — work in 
four cups first, and add very cautiously. Stir butter, sugar, 
molasses, and spice together to a light cream ; set them on 
the range until slightly warm ; beat the eggs light ; add the 
milk to the warmed mixture, then the eggs, the soda, and 
lastly the flour. Beat very hard ten minutes, and bake at 
once in a loaf or in small tins. Half a pound of raisins, 
seeded and cut in halves, will improve this excellent ginger- 
bread ; dredge them well before putting them in ; add them 
at the last. 

MOLLIES COOKIES. 

In a coffee cup put one teaspoonful soda, one teaspoon- 
ful ginger, three tablespoonfuls melted shortening, one table- 
spoonful boiling water ; fill the cup with best New Orleans 
molasses ; roll about half an inch thick ; two cups will make 
about fifty cakes. 

GINGER SNAPS. 

One pint molasses, one cup brown sugar, one table- 
spoonful soda, one tablespoonful ginger; or, if preferred, 
make up the tablespoons of equal parts of ginger and cinna- 
mon ; one cupful shortening — all butter, or half butter and 
half lard. Directions : Place sugar, molasses, and butter on 
the stove, and let them come to a boil ; stir spices into the 
flour, using from four to five cups flour ; dissolve the soda in 



S8 SOUVENIR COOK BOOK. 

hot water and pour into the molasses, sugar, and butter, 
holding it over the flour, as it is very apt to run over ; roll 
very thin. 

MRS. L.'S SUGAR COOKIES. 

One cup molasses, two thirds cup butter, one half cup 
sugar, one third cup water, one teaspoonful soda, two tea- 
spoonfuls ginger, flour to roll. 

MRS. CRANE'S COOKIES. 

One cup butter, one cup molasses, one cup sugar, three 
fourths cup sweet milk, one teaspoonful soda, two teaspoon- 
fuls ginger, flour to roll. 

HATTIE'S COOKIES. 

One and a half cups sugar, one cup butter, two eggs, 
one fourth pound currants, one half teaspoonful soda, one 
half teaspoonful cinnamon, one half teaspoonful cloves, 
one half teaspoonful nutmeg. 

MOLASSES COOKIES. 

One cup molasses, one half cup butter, one half cup 
sour milk, two teaspoonfuls soda. 

DOUGHNUTS No i. 

One cup milk, one cup sugar, one ^g'g^ piece of butter 
size of a small egg, two teaspoonfuls baking powder. 

DOUGHNUTS No. 2. 

One coffee cup sour milk, two eggs, one cup sugar, 
one half teaspoonful soda, butter size of an ^gg^ flour enough 
to roll. 



SOUVENIR COOK BOOK. 59 

CRULLERS. 

Four eggs, four tablespoonfuls melted butter, six table- 
spoonfuls sugar, four tablespoonfuls sweet milk, one tea- 
spoonful soda, one teaspoonful nutmeg, flour to roll out. 

PANCAKES. 

One pint sour milk, two thirds cup sugar, three eggs, 
pinch of salt, a little nutmeg, one tablespoonful melted lard, 
small teaspoonful soda, flour to make a thick batter; fry in 
boiling lard. 



6o SOUVENIR COOK BOOK. 



* P1QKLE5 AND PKE5EKVE5 * 



" Peter Piper picked a peck of pickled peppers." 

PICKLES. 

Wash five hundred cucumbers and lay in a tub or crock ; 
sprinkle over them one pint of table salt and cover with boil- 
ing water; let them stand twenty-four hours, then drain all 
the brine from them into a preserving kettle; heat to boiling, 
and again pour over them ; repeat this process three times ; 
after the third heating, wash thoroughly in cold water; line 
your preserving kettle with clean green cabbage leaves, and 
put in the cucumbers, adding six green peppers, a stick of 
horseradish (sliced), and a small bit of alum ; then fill the 
kettle with the best cider vinegar, boiling hot. Let them 
stand from three to four hours before putting away. 

PICKLED PEACHES. 

Select ripe peaches and pare them. To one half peck 
allow three pounds sugar and one pint vinegar. Boil the 
sugar and vinegar twenty minutes ; put the peaches in the 
boiling liquid and boil until' tender. Flavor with stick cin- 
namon and whole cloves, which should be put into small 
cloth bags. 

CHILI SAUCE. 

Twenty-five ripe tomatoes, eleven green peppers, five 
onions, chop fine ; add four cups vinegar, three cups sugar, 
one tablespoonful salt. 



SOUJ^ENIR COOK BOOK. 6i 



CHOW CHOW. 



Chop one peck green tomatoes, six onions, eight green 
peppers ; sprinkle with salt ; drain over night ; in the morn- 
ing put in a porcelain kettle with two pounds brown sugar, 
one tablespoonful each of black pepper, mustard, and celery 
seed. Cover with vinegar and boil until done. 

TOMATO CATCHUP. 

Two even tablespoonfuls of salt to one quart of toma- 
toes ; one teaspoonful each of pepper, cloves, allspice, and 
mace ; one tablespoonful mustard, one gill vinegar ; boil 
down one half. 

CRANBERRY JELLY. 

One quart of cranberries, one pint of water, one pint of 
sugar ; boil thirty minutes, then strain into a mould. 

CRANBERRY SAUCE. 

Take one quart of water and one pint of sugar ; put 
over the fire and boil five or ten minutes ; then put in the 
berries and let them simmer about twenty minutes without 
stirring ; pour out, and the berries will be nearly all whole 
and transparent. 

SPICED CURRANTS. 

Five pounds of currants, four pounds of sugar, one pint 
of vinegar, two tablespoonfuls of cassia, two of cloves. Boil 
two hours. 

PRESERVED STRAWBERRIES. 

To one pound of berries use three fourths of a pound of 
sugar in layers. Place in kettle on back of the stove until 
the sugar is dissolved into syrup ; then let come to a boil, 
stirring from the bottom ; spread on platters, not too thickly, 
and set it out in the hot sun till the syrup thickens — it may 
take two or three days ; keep in tumblers like jelly. Straw- 
berries done in this way retain their color and flavor. 



62 SOUVENIR COOK BOOK. 



rOObS ANb DK1NK5 TOR THE 3lCK. 



" Now good digestion waits on appetite, and health on both." 

— Shakespeare. 

BEEF TEA. 

Fill a glass can with lean beef cut in small pieces; cover 
closely, and set in a kettle of cold water. Boil until the juice 
is all extracted. 

CHICKEN BROTH. 

Boil the first and second joints of a chicken in one 
quart of water until tender ; season with a very little salt 
and pepper. 

TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

An even tablespoonful of tapioca soaked for two hours 
in nearly a cup of new milk ; stir into this the yolk of a fresh 
egg, a little sugar, a little salt, and bake it in a cup fifteen 
minutes. 

RICE. 

Fresh boiled rice, wet with the juice of roast beef or 
mutton, and served on a piece of toast, is nice. 

JELLY WATER. 

One large teaspoonful currant jelly, one goblet ice-water, 
beaten well together. 

EGG NOG. 

Beat a perfectly fresh Q,gg with an egg beater ; then add 
two teaspoonfuls wine, two teaspoonfuls cream, two small 
teaspoonfuls sugar, a little nutmeg. 



SOUVENIR COOK BOOK. 63 

EGG NOG. 

One egg — the yolk beaten first, then the white ; add two 
teaspoonfuls of sugar and beat again ; then the juice of half 
a lemon and the juice of one orange. 

DELICIOUS. 

The white of one ^gg beaten to a stiff froth, sweeten to 
taste ; add the juice of half a lemon. 

MILK PUNCH. (D. C.) 

One tumbler milk well sweetened, two tablespoonfuls 
best brandy well stirred in. Give very cold with ice. 

SAGO CREAM. 

Take a dessert spoonful of sago and boil in clear water 
until reduced to a jelly ; add a cup of sweet cream, boil 
again ; beat up a fresh ^gg very light, pour the sago on it 
while hot ; sweeten, and spice to taste. 

BAKED MILK. 

Bake two quarts of milk eight or ten hours in a mod- 
erate oven, in a jar covered with writing paper tied down. 
It will be thick like cream. Good for very weak persons. 

CARRIE'S ORANGE CREAM. 

The juice of six oranges, one fourth of a pound of white 
sugar, one pint of boiling water, and six eggs. Beat the 
yolks, add sugar, orange juice, and water, and stir over boil- 
ing water until it thickens. When cool put into glasses, and 
on each one put the beaten whites, sweetened and flavored 
with a little of the irrated rind. 



64 SOUVENIR COOK BOOK. 

FLAXSEED TEA. 

Put to two tablespoonfiils whole flaxseed a pint of boil- 
ing water, and boil fifteen minutes ; cut up one lemon and 
put in a pitcher with two tablespoonfuls of sugar. Strain 
the tea boiling hot into the pitcher and stir together. 

CODFISH SOUP. 

Freshen a little codfish in cold water ; pour this off and 
add hot water, crackers, and butter or cream. 

WINE JELLY. 

One half box gelatine, one cup cold water, let it stand ; 
one pint boiling water, one and a half lemons, one cup sugar, 
one pint wine ; strain into moulds. 



SOUVENIR COOK BOOK. 65 



« QONrECTIONERY * 



" Sweets to the sweet." 

WALNUT CREAMS. 

Break into a dish the white of an egg ; add the same 
quantity of water, and stir stiff with confectioner's sugar. 
Roll a portion of the cream thick, cut into round pieces ; lay 
an English walnut meat on each piece, or place the cream 
between two meats. 

WALNUT CHOCOLATE CREAMS. 

Lay English walnut meats between two round pieces of 
cream ; mould into shape with the fingers, and when hard 
dip in melted chocolate. 

PEPPERMINTS. 

Two cups sugar, one half cup water, boil five minutes ; 
flavor to taste with peppermint ; stir until thick, and drop on 
white paper. 

WALNUTS 

Must be cracked so that the halves remain perfect, and 
shaken well in a cloth to rid them of dust. 

ICE CREAM CANDY. 

Two cups sugar, one half cup water, one fourth tea- 
spoonful cream tartar ; boil ten minutes without stirring ; 
when nearly done add piece of butter size of an English 
walnut ; pull it as hot as possible, and while pulling put 
flavoring on your hands. 



66 SOUVENIR COOK BOOK. 



MOLASSES CANDY. 

One pint molasses, one cup brown sugar, one fourth cup 
butter; boil until brittle; try it by dropping into cold water; 
pour in buttered plates to cool, and begin to pull as soon as 
cool enough to handle. For chocolate caramels, add two 
squares Baker's chocolate to the above, and do not boil 
quite as long. 

TOP. 

One square chocolate, one cup pulverized sugar. Soften 
with two tablespoonfuls milk and two tablespoonfuls water; 
let it boil three or five minutes. 

NUT CARAMEL. 

Four cups granulated sugar, three tablespoonfuls glu- 
cose, one cup water; boil, stirring frequently, until it will 
harden when dropped in cold water ; add immediately one 
cup cream or one half cup rich milk, and a small piece of 
butter; boil again until it hardens in water; remove from 
the stove and flavor with two teaspoonfuls of vanilla ; add 
two cups of walnut meats ; pour into a buttered pan, and 
when nearly cold cut up in square blocks. 

FIG CANDY. 

One cup sugar, one third cup water, one fourth tea- 
spoonful cream tartar ; do not stir while boiling ; boil to an 
amber color; stir in the cream tartar just before taking from 
the fire ; wash the figs, open and lay in a tin pan, and pour 
the candy over them. 

MOLASSES CANDY. 

One cup molasses, one cup sugar, one tablespoonful 
vinegar, piece of butter, one half teaspoonful soda ; add 
soda as you take it from the fire ; this cooks in a short time. 



SOUVENIR COOK BOOK. 67 



MINT5 TO M0CJ3EKEEPER5. 



" Many things impossible to thought 
Have been by need to full perfection brought." 

Salt eaten with nuts aids digestion. 

The surest way to have clear jelly is to let the juice 
drain through a flannel bag without squeezing it. 

Keep a little beeswax tied up in a cloth to rub your 
flatirons with. 

Mildew. — Rub the spot with soft soap and salt, and 
expose to the sun. 

Cure for Hoarseness. — Bake a lemon for twenty 
minutes in the oven ; open at one end and take out the 
inside ; thicken it with sugar and eat. 

Lemon Moss. — Put a few sprigs of moss to soak, after 
being washed, in water enough to make a drink the thick- 
ness of cream ; after standing a short time, add lemon juice 
and loaf sugar. Good for a cold on the lungs. 

Egg Nog. — Yolks of six eggs, six tablespoonfuls of 
powdered sugar, one quart new milk, one half pint French 
brandy, a little nutmeg ; beat the whites separately, and stir 
through tiie mixture just before you serve. 



68 SOUVENIR COOK BOOK. 



* A13CELLANE0CJ3 * 



Sure Cure for Carpet Bugs. — Equal parts of nitrate 
potash, pulverized camphor gum, and pulverized borax mixed 
together. 

To WASH doubtful calicoes, dissolve one teaspoonful 
sugar of lead in one pailful water, and soak the garment 
fifteen minutes before washing. 

Mildew. — Dip the stained cloth in buttermilk, and lay 
in the sun. 

To Clean Straw Matting. — Wash with a cloth dipped 
in clean salt and water ; then wipe dry at once. This pre- 
vents it from turning yellow. 

Coal Fire. — If the coal fire is low, throw on a table- 
spoonful of salt, and it will brighten it very much. 

To Cleanse a Sponge. — By rubbing a fresh lemon 
thoroughly into a soured sponge and rinsing it several times 
in lukewarm water, it will become as sweet as when new. 

A flannel cloth dipped into warm soap suds, then into 
whiting and applied to paint, will remove all dirt and grease. 
Wash with clean water and dry. The most delicate paint 
will not be injured, and will look like new. 

To remove paint splashed upon window panes, use a hot 
solution of soda, and rub with a soft flannel. 

A REMEDY for chapped hands is to rub them in vinegar 
after washing, and let them dry without wiping. It will keep 
the hands soft and white. 



SOUVENIR COOK BOOK. 69 



TABLE OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES. 

Two cups of sifted flour is equal to one pound. 
One pint of sifted flour is equal to one pound. 
One pint of packed butter is equal to one pound. 
Ten eggs are equal to one pound. 
Two cupfuls are equal to one pint. 
Two wineglassfuls are equal to one gill. 



WHAT A WOMAN SHOULD WEIGH. 

A WOMAN whose height is 

5 feet, o inches, should weigh 118 pounds. 
5 feet, I inch, should weigh 124 pounds. 
5 feet, 2 inches, should weigh 128 pounds. 
5 feet, 3 inches, should weigh 130 pounds. 
5 feet, 4 inches, should weigh 136 pounds. 
5 feet, 5 inches, should weigh 139 pounds. 
5 feet, 6 inches, should weigh 143 pounds. 
5 feet, 7 inches, should weigh 148 pounds. 
5 feet, 8 inches, should weigh 153 pounds. 
5 feet, 9 inches, should weigh 153 pounds. 

This table is for women between twenty and forty-five 
years of age. After that they become heavier. A woman 
should weigh but little less than a man in proportion to her 
height. The bust of a perfectly formed woman should meas- 
ure ten inches more than her waist. 



Whether present or absent, alone or in company, speak 
up for one another, earnestly and lovingly. 

Often, after cooking a meal, a person will feel tired and 
have no appetite. For this beat a raw egg until light ; stir in 
a little milk, sugar, and nutmeg ; drink half an hour before 
eating. 

For a cold on the chest, a flannel rag wrung out in boil- 
ing water and sprinkled with turpentine, laid on the chest, 
gives the greatest relief. 

To STOP bleeding, bind a handful of flour on the cut. 

If the saucepan in which milk is to be boiled be first 
moistened with water, it will prevent the milk from burning. 



INDEX. 



BREAD. 

PAGE 

Biscuit S> 8 

Breakfast Puffs 8 

Brown Bread 5 

Corn Cake 5 

Corn Cake No. i 7 

Corn Cake No. 2 7 

Corn Cake (old fashioned) No. 3. 7 

Fritters 9 

Fritters, Corn, No. i 8 

Fritters, Corn, No. 2 8 

Fritters, Cream 9 

Graham Bread 6 

Graham Rolls 6,7 

Mrs. L.'s Rolls 6 

Orange Shortcake 9 

Parker House Rolls v ■ ^ 

Pop-Overs 8 

Rice Waffles 8 

Rye Cakes 7 

Rye Muffins 7 

Sallie Lunn 8 

Squash Muffins 7 

Strawberry Shortcake 9 

White Bread 6 

Yeast 5 



SOUPS. 

Beef Soup 10 

Bouillon Soup 10 

Stock for Soup 10 

Tomato Soup 1 1 

FISH. 

Baked Fish 14 

Clam Chowder 12 

Codfish Balls 12, 13 

Codfish Dip 13 

Corn Fish 13 

Cream Sauce 14 

Creamed Oysters 14 

Escalloped Oysters 14 

Fish Croquettes 14 

Little Pigs in Blankets 13 

Parsnip Balls 12 

Steamed Oysters 14 

Turbout 13 



MEATS. 

PAGE 

Beefsteak Toast 16 

Broiled Pork Steak 18 

Chicken, Baked 17 

Chicken, Cream 18, 19 

Chicken, Creamed 19 

Chicken Croquettes 17 

Chicken Pie i8 

Chicken, Pressed 17 

Fowl, to Cook 16 

Fried Bread for Soup 18 

Ham, Baked 16 

Ham Balls 15 

Hash 15 

Lamb Roast 15 

Pot Roast 17 

Steak 16 

Tartare Sauce 19 

Tripe, Fried 16 

Turkey 18 

Veal Pate 15 

SALADS. 

Cabbage Salad 21 

Chicken Salad 20 

Drawn Butter 22 

Lobster Salad 20 

Mayonnaise Dressing 21 

Oyster Salad 20 

Oyster Sauce 22 

Potato Salad 21 

Salmon Salad 20 

Salad Dressing 21 

Welsh Rarebit 22 

VEGETABLES. 

Asparagus 23 

Creamed Potatoes 23 

Egg Plant 23 

Whipped Potatoes 23 

EGGS. 

Eggs, Boiled 24 

Eggs, Dropped 24 

Eggs, Fried 24 

Eggs a la Cream 24 

Omelet 24 



INDEX 



71 



PUDDINGS. 

PAGE 

Apple Tapioca Pudding 27 

Blueberry Pudding 27 

Bread Pudding 26 

Bread Pudding, Cocoanut 26 

Bread Pudding, Steamed 26 

Brown Betty 25 

Cocoanut Pudding 29 

Cottage Pudding 30 

Delicious Pudding 25 

Delnionico Pudding 26 

Dish of Snow 26 

English Pudding 28 

Favorite Pudding 28 

Fliunniery 28 

Fruit Pudding 30 

Huckleberry Pudding 25 

Indian Meal Pudding 27, 29, 34 

Lemon Pudding 28 

May's Peach Pudding 33 

Orange Pudding 29 

Peaches and Cream 32 

Pork Pudding 26 

Pudding 28 

Queen Pudding 28 

Rice, to Boil 27 

Rice Pudding 29 

Snow and Ice Pudding 29 

Suet Pudding 29 

Tapioca Float 32 

Tapioca Pudding 25 

White Wine Puddir.g 27 

JELLIES, CREAMS, AND 
SHERBET. 

Cream, Ice 35 

Cream, Italian 31 

Cream, Orange 34 

Cream, Raspberry 35 

Cream, Rich 35 

Cream, Spanish 34 

Cream, Strawberry 32, 35 

Cream, Whipped 31 

Floating Island .... 33 

Frozen Peaches 32, 35 

Frozen Pudding 34 

Fruit Harlequin 32 

Impromptu Dessert 30 

Jelly, Coffee 30 

Jelly, Lemon 33 

Jelly, Strawberry 33 

Oranges Jellied 31 

Russe, Charlotte 33 

Russe, Nellie 31 

Sherbet, Bernie's 34 

Sherbet, Pineapple 30 

PUDDING SAUCES. 

Egg Sauce 36, 37 

Foaming Sauce 37 

Hard Sauce 36 

Lemon Sauce 36 

Strawberry Sauce 36 

Vinegar Sauce 37 

Whipped Cream Sauce 37 

White Sauce 36 



PASTRY. 

PAGE 

Apple Pie 38 

Cocoanut Pie 39 

Cora's Lemon Pie 39 

Cream Pie 40 

Crust for Pie 38 

Currant Pie 39 

Custard Pie 40 

Grandma's Apple Puffs 38 

Hotel Pie 39 

Lemon Pie 39 

Lemon Meringue Pie 39 

Mince Pie 40 

Mince Pie, rich 40 

Squash Pie 41 

Washington Pie 40, 48 

Whipped Cream Pie 41 



CAKE. 

Addie's Gold Cake 44 

Almond Cake 47 

Angel Cake 44, 47 

Arrowhead Cake 52 

Aunt Mary's Fruit Cake 43 

Bessie's Cake 48 

Butter Cake 51 

Carrie's Jelly Cake 51 

Cheap Raisin Cake 45 

Coffee Cake 5 ' 1 52 

Cream Cake 54 

Cream Sponge Cake 45 

Crullers 59 

Cup Cake 51 

Dollie Varden's Cake 44 

Doughnuts 58 

Edna's Cake 56 

Egg Rock Cake 55 

Election Cake 44 

Emma's White Cake 52 

Emma's Jelly Roll 54 

Evelyn's Chocolate Cake 53 

Excellent Cake 50 

Feather Cake 50 

Fig Cake 52 

Filling, Apple, for Layer Cake.. . 53 

Filling, Lemon, for Cake 49 

Filling for Orange Cake 49 

Fruit Cake 46, 47 

Gingerbread, Hard 56 

Gingerbread, Plain 56 

Gingerbread, Soft 57 

Gold Cake 43 , 44 

Grandpa's Cake 49 

Helen's Cake 47 

Imperial Cake 46 

Marble Cake 43 

Marbled Cake 42 

May L.'s Clove Cake 48 

Molasses Cake 56 

" Minute Man " Cake 44 

Mrs. C.'s Sponge Cake 53 

Mrs. W.'s Sponge Cake 54 

Myra's Nut Calic 52 

Napolians 50 

Pork Cake 53 

Raisin Smash 43 

Ribbon Cake 45 

Roll Jelly Cake 54 



72 



INDEX. 



PAGE 

Silver Cake 43i So 

Snap Doodle 50 

Spice Cake 42 

Sponge Cake 45 

Sponge Cake, Water 46 

Stella's Yellow Sponge Cake 50 

Union Cake 48 

Walnut Drops 42 

Walnut Filling 48 

Whist Cake 51 

White Cake 49, S3 

White Citron Cake 51 

COOKIES AND SMALL 
CAKES. 

Addie's Chocolate Jumbles 47 

Cocoanut Cookies .\ . . 46 

Cream Cookies 46 

Ginger Snaps 56, 57 

Grace's Sugar Cookies 49 

Hard Sugar Cakes 46 

Hattie's Cookies 58 

Helen's Cookies ' 55 

Hotel Cookies 45 

Lemon Snaps 55 

Molasses Cookies 58 

Molasses Drop Cakes 57 

Mollie's Cookies 57 

Mrs. Crane's Cookies 58 

Mrs. L.'s Cookies 58 

Pancakes 5g 

Vanilla Jumbles 48 

FROSTING. 

Chocolate Frosting 55 

Cocoanut Frosting 55 

Milk Frosting 54 

Plain Frosting. 4S> 53, 54 

PICKLES AND PRE- 
SERVES. 

Chili Sauce 60 

Chow Chow 61 

Cranberry Jelly 61 

Cranberry Sauce 6i 

Currants, Spiced 61 



PAGE 

Pickled Peaches 60 

Pickles 60 

Strawberries, Preserved 61 

Tomato Catchup 61 

FOODS FOR THE SICK. 

Baked Milk 63 

Beef Tea 62 

Chicken Broth 62 

Delicious 63 

Egg Nog 62,63 

Flaxseed Tea 64 

Jelly Water 62 

Milk Punch 63 

Orange Cream 63 

Rice ' 62 

Sago Cream 63 

Soup, Codfish 64 

Tapioca Pudding 62 

Wine Jelly 64 

CONFECTIONERY. 

Cream Walnuts 65 

Chocolate Walnuts 65 

Fig Candy 66 

Ice Cream Candy 65 

Molasses Candy 66 

Nut Caramel 66 

Peppermints 65 

Top 66 

Walnuts. 65 

HINTS TO HOUSE- 
KEEPERS. 

Carpet Bugs 68 

Cure for Hoarseness 67 

Chapped Hands 68 

Doubtful Calicoes 68 

Egg Nog 67 

Lemon Moss 67 

Mildew 67, 68 

Sponge, to Cleanse 68 

Straw Matting 68 

Table of Weights and Measures.. 69 

To Remove Paint 68 

To Stop Bleeding 6g 

What a Woman Should Weigh. . . 69 



LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 




0014481 610 






