Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 



2 fc » 



RADCUIH 



"e ubrakyI 



WOMEN'S AR( HIVES 

Transferr-il ij ,it 

HAKV'VFD COLLtGr LII'RAKY 



^ ' ^ 1960 

e 
f 



vyhct^x-uZH^ \/lju,>f*>^i,f^ 



,r , 



» • 



l^anlrs tlolumt Culinarg Btrits. 

No. 1. 



One Hundred Ways of Cooking Eggs. 



One Hundred Ways 



OF Cooking Eggs. 



BY 
KILIPPINI. 

(TWENTY-FIVE YEARS WITH DBLM0NIC06.) 



HSm Sork: 

CHARLES L. WEBSTER & COMPANY. 

1892. 







HARVARD COLLEGE LIBRARY 

BEQUEST OF 

MRS. CHESTER N. QRECNOUGH 

8EPTEMBEK 20, 1926 



Copyrighted, 1892, 

By CHARLES L. WEBSTER & CO. 

(All rights reserved,) 



C, 4 1. 7 7 



A WORD OF ADVICE. 



Eggs are not fit for any purpose unless they are perfectly fresh. 
An easy method of ascertaining the freshness of an tgg is to hold it 
toward the sun or toward a good light. If fresh, it will be perfectly 
clear; if it is clear on one side and cloudy on the other, it is stale. 
Another good test is to place the eggs in a pan filled with water; 
those that sink to the bottom are perfectly fresh; if they float at the 
top or stand on end in the water, they are unfit for use. 



NOTES. 



A pinch of salt represents 205 grains, or a tablespoon ful. 

Half a pinch of pepper represents 38 grains, or a teaspoonful. 

A third of a pinch of nutmeg represents 13 grains, or half a tea- 
spoonful. 

The recipes referred to in the " One Hundred Ways of Cooking 
Eggs ** will be found in the appendix. 



CONTENTS. 



a. ScrunUed Eggi -,..--.-.. lo 

a. Scrambled Eggi vith A>panguilo]H.. lo 

4. Scr»mhled Em* wilb Tiufllei .i 

5. ScTMibled ES» wiih Smoked Beef. .. . ii 

6. Scrtmbledl^gi wiihChicofy it 

- "^ — a.l'i Livmaston. 13 

i la Bourguignonne 13 

). FifcdEgp.. 14 

1. EggsaTfieurrt Noir IJ 

" auSoleil 16 

ila Bech^el .7 

!i la fauvre Femme i» 

luGratui 19 

4 La VamfetWitV. '.'.!".'.; !!!".'.'.!'.'.! ™ 

Ala Provencale . . - 93 

enFlleu. n 

?■. E«g.auMir"™.'.'.":::;!;.'.',v.":.'.'.'.'.' U 

3. Eggiwilb Fresh Miuhtocnu 17 

3. Eggi with Celery aS 

4. E(|swiIhTruffla 99 

J. Eggi witb Tarr^on jo 

6. F«gi with Liven )i 

ila Bonne Femme!.*.',"..". '.'!!!" 33 

*laPayBime 34 



S StaiS:;:.:::::::: 

31 giiilaSuiBe 

3* giilaChipolata. 

i H^l-Ji^^f"*;.::::::.::: 


1* 

i 

41 


41 gi i la Sauce Robert 

S giSKiv.;::--:;:; 


4a 












49. Crawlkh Omelit h 


II. Tomuo Umelet 























CONTENTS. 



SiuBgc Omelet 61 

Onetet RiupaO. ■ p - ^ --.... ->>.- A4 

Suilire OmdcL 6c 

CbecHOmtlel (A 

OaieUt RticDqe..... 67 

UmeLet i I'Efipacvolfi .--.-...-....-... 69 

Omelet Mexicune 70 

Sweei OmeJcOe 71 

OmeletSoufflje.rorSiiPcnDiii 71 

O VlCilollne.' .'!'.,','...*.;, js 

E bk W. B-KendUL 70 

E Molet 78 

& li li ViUero. 79 

E ilaBucUn. to 

E lilnJayGould U 

E ilaW.M.EiMTU. 84 

E AliGeo. O.loaa St 

E kin A.F. Bowwm. M 

E 1 )■ Huulton Fiib 9a 

E i,\»Kmt.Dia.'.'.'.''.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'. A 

E, S1.D.B. HUl M 

E ^ 1* W. W. Ladd, Jr «B 

E| AlaCocknne i« 

E ilaUoydABinwall ■« 

O — et Crime deVamUc k l> R. A. C. 




I. Poached. 

Boil in a deep saucepan three quarts of water with a heavy pinch of 
salt and three drops of vinegar. Have easily at hand twelve fresh 
eggs. When, and only when, the water boils, rapidly but carefully 
crack six of th%m, one by one. As success to have them in proper 
shape and cooked to jjerfection dejjends upon how they are handled, 
special care should be taken to crack them as rapidly as possible, 
carefully avoiding to break the yolks, and dropping each one right on 
the spot where the water bubbles, and as near the boiling-point as 
possible. Poach for one minute and a quarter from the time that the 
water boils after the eggs were put in. Lift them up with a skimmer, 
lay them on the freshly prepared toasts, or use for any other desired 
purpose; and repeat the same with the other six. If handled strictly 
as above described you will have them to perfection, and no necessity 
of trimming any superfluous adherings; serve when required. 



2. Scrambled Eggs. 

Melt three ounces of butter in a saucepan, break into it twelve 
fresh eggs; season with a pinch of salt, half a pinch of pepper, and a 
third of a pinch of grated nutmeg. Mix thoroughly without stopping 
for three minutes, using a spatula, and having the pan on a very hot 
stove. Turn into a warm tureen, add a little verjuice or lemon juice, 
and send to the table very hot. 

3. Scrambled Eggs with Asparagus Tops, 

To be prepared exactly the same as for No. 2. After the eggs 
have been well mixed with butter in the pan, there is added a quarter 
of a bunch of freshly boiled asparagus-tops. 



10 



4- Scrambled Eggs with Truffles. 

Place in a saucepan four good-sized, sliced truffles with a glassful 
of Madeira wine. Reduce to about half, which will take two minutes; 
add a tablespoonful of butter; season with one pinch of salt and half 
a pinch of pepper. Crack into the saucepan twelve eggs, mix all well 
together with the spatula for three minutes on a very hot stove with- 
out stopping. Turn into a hot tureen and serve. 

5. Scrambled Eggs with Smoked Beef. 

Fry in a sautoire for one minute two ounces of finely minced 
smoked beef. Scramble twelve eggs as for No. 2, mixing with the 
above prepared beef. Any kind of garnishing may be added to the 
scrambled eggs. 



II 



6. Scrambled Eggs with Chicory. 

Blanch for fifteen minutes a good-sized head of chicory; drain it 
and cut it into one-inch lengths. Put these in a saucepan on the hot 
stove with an ounce of butter and one minced onion, fry, and then 
moisten with half a pint of broth (No. loi), adding a pinch of salt and 
half a pinch of pepper. Let cook until all the liquid is evaporated 
(which will take from twenty to twenty-two minutes). Break twelve 
eggs into a saucepan, add the chicory and another ounce of butter, 
then scramble with a spatula all together for four minutes, and serve 
with heart-shaped bread croutons (No. 102) around the dish. 



12 



7* ^SS^ ^ ^^ Livingston, 

Cover six pieces of cut toast with pat^-de-foie-gras, lay them on a 
dish, and pour twelve scrambled eggs over (No. 2), add two table- 
spoonfuls of demi-glace around the dish and serve (No. 103). 

8. Eggs h la Bourguignonne. 

Place in a saucepan one tablespoonf ul of meat-glaze with one pint 
of broth (No. loi). Boil, then crack into it two fresh eggs, and poach 
for one and a quarter minutes. Carefully lift up with a skimmer, and 
gently lay them on a hot silver dish. Repeat the same operation with 
ten more, two at a time ; when all on the dish, sprinkle over them an 
ounce of grated Parmesan cheese. Place in the hot oven to brown for 
one minute. Reduce the gravy in which they were poached to one- 
half, then carefully pour the sauce around the eggs, but not over 
them, and serve hot. 

13 



9* Fried Eggs. 

Place in a frying-pan on the hot range three tablespoon fuls of 
very good sweet oil, heat it well, then carefully break into it one 
fresh t%g^ being careful not to break the yolk, and with the aid of a 
table knife fold the white right over the yolk, cook for a quarter of a 
minute, turn it over with a cake-turner, cook for a quarter of a min- 
ute on the other side, lift it up with the cake-turner, dress on a hot 
dish with a folded napkin. Proceed precisely the same way with 
eleven more, and then they will be ready to serve for any purpose 
desired. 

N. B. — Mix one pinch of salt, and half a pinch of white pepper, 
and as soon as the eggs are dressed on the dish season each one 
evenly with it; taking special care to cook them separately, and no 
more than a quarter of a minute on each side. 



14 



lo. Eggs au Beurre Noir. 

Put one ounce of butter in a frying-pan on the hot stove, let heat 
well, but not brown; break gently into a dish twelve very fresh eggs, 
slide them carefully into the pan, then season with a pinch of salt and 
half a pinch of white pepper; let cook slowly for three minutes. Have 
ready a hot, flat dish, slide the eggs gently onto it, without turning 
them over, and be careful to avoid breaking them; lay the dish con- 
taining the eggs in a warm place. Put two ounces of butter in thfe 
same pan, place it on the hot stove, and let the butter get a good 
brown color for three minutes, then drop in two teaspoonfuls of vine- 
gar. Pour this over the eggs, and serve. 



15 



1 1 . Eggs au SolezL 

Put two tablespoonfuls of lard in a frying-pan on the hot stove, 
break in twelve fresh eggs, dropping them in carefully, one by one; 
let them cook for two minutes, then with a skimmer take each one up 
separately and lay it carefully on a dry cloth. Have some fritter- 
batter (No. 104) ready, cut a piece of half-cooked bacon into small, 
square pieces of about an inch, and add them to the batter, then dip 
in the eggs, one after the other, taking up with each one a piece of 
the bacon, and with the fingers drop them into very hot grease, and 
cook to a good golden color for two minutes. Lift them up with the 
skimmer, lay them on a dry cloth to drain; sprinkle over half a pinch 
of salt, dress on a hot dish with a folded napkin, and serve. 



l6 



12. Eggs k la BichameL 

Pour one pint of bechamel (No. io8) into a saucepan, and put it 
on the hot stove. Cut twelve hard-boiled eggs in halves, add them to 
the hot bechamel ; season with half a pinch of white pepper, and let 
heat thoroughly for three minutes, but be careful not to let it boil. 
Add one ounce of butter and a saltspoonful of grated nutmeg, then 
pour it on a hot serving-dish, and serve with six heart-shaped croQtons 
(No. 102). 



17 



\ 
I 

t 
i 



13. ££'^s it la Pauvre Femnte, 

Heat half an ounce of butter in a dish on the hot stove, then break 
into it twelve fresh eggs, and sprinkle over two ounces of fresh bread- 
crumbs. Set the dish in the hot oven, and let bake for two minutes; 
then pour over the eggs half a pint of well-reduced Espagnole sauce 
(No. 105), add three ounces of cooked, tender ham, or cooked kid- 
neys cut up finely, and serve. 



18 



14* ^iS^ ^^ Gratin. 

Knead well together in a bowl, one tablespoonful of bread-crumbs, 
two ounces of butter, three chopped anchovies, a pinch of parsley, a 
pinch of chervil, one chopped shallot, three raw ^%% yolks, a good 
pinch of salt, half a pinch of white pepper, and a pinch of grated nut- 
meg. When ready, put these ingredients into a silver baking-dish (by 
preference) with one ounce of butter at the bottom. Place it on a 
slow fire for two minutes, then break over it six eggs, which will 
be plenty; cook for five minutes in the hot oven, remove, lay the 
dish on top of another, and serve immediately. 



19 



15. Eggs it la Tripe, 

Fry two medium-sized, sound, sliced onions in a frying-pan with 
two ounces of butter, but do not brown them; mix in half a spoonful 
of flour, and a large cupful of sweet cream; season with a pinch of 
salt, half a pinch of white pepper, and the third of a pinch of grated 
nutmeg. Cook for eight minutes, stirring constantly with the spatu- 
la; then add twelve sliced, hard-boiled eggs, and heat together thor- 
oughly for two minutes without letting it boil again; pour on a hot 
disband serve. 



20 



1 6. Eggs it la Vanderbilt. 

Place one ounce of good butter on a silver dish, set it on the hot 
stove, and break in twelve fresh eggs, being careful not to disturb the 
yolks; season with a light pinch of salt and the third of a pinch of 
pepper; then let cook slowly for four minutes. Pour over the eggs a 
pint of hot Vanderbilt garnishing as for the omelet (No. 67), and 
serve immediately. 



31 



17. Egg^ ^ l^ Valencienne. 

Put into a saucepan half a pint of hot, boiled rice, half a pint 
of hot tomato sauce, two good -sized mushrooms, cut julienne- 
shaped, one truffle cut the same, and two tablespoonfuls of grated 
Parmesan cheese; season with half a pinch of salt, half a pinch of 
pepper, and the third of a pinch of grated nutmeg, and let cook on the 
hot stove for five minutes, stirring it lightly with the spatula. Leave 
the pan on the corner of the stove to keep warm, while putting half 
an ounce of good butter on a silver dish, and when placed on the hot 
stove, crack in twelve fresh eggs, being careful not to break the 
yolks; season with half a pinch of salt and the third of a pinch of 
pepper, then let cook for two minutes. Dress the prepared garnishing 
in four dome-shaped heaps — one at each end of the dish, and one at 
each side — and serve immediately. 



22 



1 8. Eggs it la Prove?ifale. 

Pour two tablespoonfuls of oil into a small frying-pan, and set it 
on the fire. When well heated, break one e,%% into a bowl, season 
with a pinch of salt and half a pinch of pepper (divided up for the 
twelve eggs), then drop it into the oil; baste the ^gg with a spoon, 
turn it over, and when a good color on both sides, drain it on a wire 
sieve. Cook the twelve eggs separately (each one will take two min- 
utes), then pare them nicely, and serve crown-shaped on a dish, put- 
ting a niece of fried bread between every other one. Pour over half 
a pint of reduced Espagnole (No. 105), to which has been added the 
zest of a lemon, and six sliced mushrooms, and serve very hot. 



23 



1 9- Eggs en Filets. 

Mix in a dish that may be put in the oven (a silver one by prefer- 
ence) twelve raw t.%% yolks, with a spoonful of brandy and a pinch of 
salt. Cook them for five minutes in a hot oven, then let them cool; 
cut the preparation into twelve thin fillets or slices, and steep each 
one in a light pancake batter. Fry them in very hot fat for about 
two minutes, then lift up with a skimmer, lay them on a napkin to 
drain, and serve on a folded napkin laid on a hot dish and garnished 
with fried parsley. 



34 



20. Eggs it la Finoise. 

Pour a pint of good tomato sauce into a saucepan on the hot 
stove, add two cut-up, peeled, sweet peppers, fry for two minutes in 
a tablespoonful of butter, a teaspoonful of chopped chives, and 
* reduce it gradually to about half the quantity, which will take ten 
minutes. Poach six very fresh eggs, as for No. i, pare their edges 
neatly. Place six freshly prepared hot toasts on a warm serving-dish, 
arrange the eggs carefully on top, and pour the above sauce over 
all, then send them to the table at once. 



25 



21. Eggs au Mtrotr. 

Lightly butter a silver dish large enough to hold twelve eggs, one 
beside another; carefully break into it twelve eggs, taking care to 
keep the yolks intact. Evenly sprinkle over them half a pinch of 
salt. Cook for one minute on a hot stove; then place them in the 
oven for one and a half minutes. Take out, and place the dish on 
another, and serve. 



26 



22. Eggs with Fresh Mushrooms 

Peel, wash, and drain a quarter of a pound of fine, fresh mush- 
rooms. Place them in a saucepan, with a tablespoon ful of very good 
butter. Season with half a pinch of salt and a third of a pinch of 
white pepper, squeezing in first two drops of lemon juice. Cover the 
saucepan, and cook for ten minutes on a moderate fire. Add a quar- 
ter of a glassful of good Madeira wine; reduce to one-half, which will 
take two minutes; add now a gill of b6chamel sauce (No. io8), and 
let come to a boil again. Prepare twelve fresh-poached eggs, as in 
No. i; pour the sauce on a hot serving-dish, keeping the mush- 
rooms in the saucepan. Neatly lay the eggs over the sauce around 
the dish, and dress the mushrooms right in the centre, and serve very 
hot. 



27 



23- Eggs with Celery, 

Boil for fifteen minutes, in a quart of white broth (No. loi ), two 
heads of well-washed and neatly pared, sound celery. Remove it 
from the broth; then cut it up in one-inch-length pieces, and return 
it to the pan with the broth in which it was first boiled, leaving it on 
the hot stove. Season with one pinch of salt and the third of a pinch 
of white pepper. Reduce to three-quarters (which will require ten 
minutes). Add a gill of hot bechamel sauce (No. io8), let come to 
a boil. Poach twelve fresh eggs exactly as in No. i, neatly arrange 
them on a hot dish, crown-like. Pour the celery sauce right in the 
centre, and serve very hot. 



28 



24* ^SS^ with Truffles. 

Peel three medium-sized, sound truffles. Cut them into thin 
slices, place in a saucepan with a glassful of Madeira wine; reduce to 
one-half on a moderate fire. Season with one pinch of salt and the 
third of. a pinch of white pepper; add one gill of bechamel sauce (No. 
1 08); let come to a boil. Prepare twelve heart-shaped crodtons (No. 
102); dip the thin parts first into the sauce half an inch in depth, then 
into fresh, finely chopped- up parsley up to the same depth. Gently 
dress (arrange) them on the hot serving-dish in star-shape, so that the 
decorated ends of the croutons will just reach up to the edge of the 
dish equally all around. Prepare twelve poached eggs exactly the 
same as in No. i; dress an t%% on each croiiton. Gently pour the 
above prepared sauce right in the centre of the dish, being careful not 
to pour any over the eggs. Evenly slice one good- sized, sound truffle 
into twelve equal slices; dip them in a little hot broth for two sec- 
onds; lay one slice on top of each eggj and serve immediately. 

29 



25- Eggs with Tarragon. 

Blanch for one minute in a sautoire a quarter of a bunch of tarra- 
gon-leaves, drain, and chop them up very fine. Break twelve eggs 
into a bowl, add the tarragon, season with a pinch of salt and half a 
pinch of pepper, and beat well for four minutes; meanwhile adding 
half a cupful of sweet cream. Then make an omelet, as for No. 46, 
and roll it on a hot serving-dish. Prepare a little roux with flour and 
butter (No. 109), moisten with half a pint of strong broth and a glass- 
ful of white wine; skim off any fat that may accumulate on top, and 
let it cook slowly for ten minutes. Strain through a fine sieve and 
pour it around the omelet; then serve. 



30 



26. Eggs with Livers. 

Remove the gall carefully from about a pint of chicken livers, wash 
them well, drain, and slice them into small pieces. Place them in a 
sautoire with one ounce of butter; range the pan on the hot stove, 
then season with one pinch of salt and half a pinch of pepper ; toss 
the contents gently for two minutes ; then add a pinch of chopped 
parsley, one pinch of chervil, and three well-minced mushrooms, and 
moisten with half a pint of Madeira sauce (No. 103); and let cook for 
five minutes ; make an omelet of twelve eggs, as for No. 46, and 
when ready to finish, pour the livers in the centre, reserving two ta- 
blespoonfuls of it for further action ; close the sides up carefully, 
cook two seconds longer, then gently turn it on a hot dish, and, with 
a s|X)on, pour all the sauce around the omelet. Dress the livers that 
were reserved, at both ends of the omelet, equally divided, and serve. 



31 



27. Eggs au Parmesan. 

Beat twelve eggs in a saucepan, with two tablespoonfuls of grated 
Parmesan cheese, a pinch of pepper, but no salt ; stir them well with 
a whip, and make of this six small omelets, as for No. 46. As soon 
as they are sufficiently firm, lay them on a dish. Besprinkle the tops 
with a little grated Parmesan cheese, roll, and trim them nicely, 
sprinkle more cheese over the tops, wip>e off the sides of the dish, and 
put them in a hot oven for five minutes. Remove from the oven, 
pour around the omelets one gill of hot Madeira sauce (No. 103), and 
serve very hot. 



33 



28. Eggs it la Bonne Femme. 

Slice two large, sound onions, and fry them in two ounces of 
butter, in a saucepan, stirring frequently, so that they do not burn ; 
when done, dredge in a good pinch of flour, moistening with half a 
pint of cream or milk, and season with a pinch of salt, half a pinch of 
pepper, and a saltspoonful of nutmeg. Break six eggs, froth the 
whites, mix the yolks with the onions, and afterward the beaten whites, 
stirring well. Lay two pieces of white paper on the bottom of a bak- 
ing-tin, butter them thoroughly, lay the eggs on top, and set it in the 
oven for about fifteen minutes. When done, turn them on to a hot 
dish, remove the papers, add two tablespoonfuls of Espagnole sauce 
(No. 105) to the eggs and serve. 



33 



29« ^SS^ ^ ^^ Paysanne. 

Put half a pint of cream into a dish, on the fire, and when it boils, 
break in twelve fresh eggs, season with a pinch of salt and twelve 
whole peppers ; let cook for two minutes, and then set it in the oven 
for three minutes, so that the eggs get a good golden color, taking 
care that they do not harden. Remove from the oven, place the dish 
on another, and serve. 



34 



30. Eggs it la Rigence. 

Shred an ounce and a half of salt pork into fine pieces (ham will 
answer the same purpose), also one onion cut into small squares, and 
six medium-sized mushrooms, all of equal size ; moisten with a spoon- 
ful of good gravy, and cook for five minutes. When done, reduce 
with a tablespoonful of mrushroom essence (liquor). Break twelve 
fresh eggs in a dish, with an ounce of melted butter on the bottom, 
and set it in a moderate oven for five minutes ; pour the garnishing 
over, drip off the fat, wipe the sides of the dish, and add six drops of 
strong tarragon-vinegar. Remove from the oven, place the dish on 
another, and serve. 



35 



31. Eggs with Melted Cheese. 

Grate two ounces of Parmesan cheese on a dish ; set it on a slow 
fire, adding half a glassful of white wine, a pinch of chopped parsley, a 
pinch of chopped chives, half a pinch of pepper, and a saltspoonful of 
grated nutmeg, also two ounces of good butter. Stir thoroughly while 
cooking, and as the cheese melts, break in twelve eggs ; cook for 
five minutes longer, then surround the dish with heart-shaped croft- 
tons (No. 102) set it on another dish, and serve very hot. 



36 



32. Eggs en Panade, 

Cut out twelve round pieces of bread-crumbs, each one measur- 
ing two inches in diameter, and place them in a pie-plate, spreading a 
little butter over each ; brown them in the hot oven for one minute. 
Break twelve eggs in a bowl, add one pinch of chopped parsley, half 
a pinch of chives, two tablespoonf uls of thick, sweet cream, one ounce 
of butter, a pinch of salt, and a very little white pepper. Beat sharply 
all together for four minutes. Add the twelve pieces of browned 
bread to the beaten eggs ; mix them well together. Place in a frying- 
pan on the hot range one ounce of clarified butter, heat thoroughly, 
then fry one egged bread at a time for one and a half minutes on each 
side. Dress, with the aid of a cake-turner on a hot dish with a folded 
napkin ; keep in a warm place. Repeat the same process with the 
others, and'serve. 



37 



33- ^SS^ ^ ^^ Meyerbeer. 

Butter a silver dish and break into it twelve fresh eggs ; or, if de- 
sired, use six small silver dishes, breaking two eggs into each one ; 
then cook them on the stove for two minutes. Cut six mutton kid- 
neys in halves, broil or stew them according to taste, then add them 
to the eggs, and serve with half a pint of hot Perigueux sauce (No. 
no) thrown over. 



38 



34- Eggs it la Rezne. 

Prepare twelve eggs as for No. 33, cook them for two minutes. 
Make a garnishing of one ounce of cooked chicken-breast, one finely 
shred, medium-sized truffle, and six minced mushrooms. Moisten 
with half a pint of good AUemande sauce (No. iii), heat it up well, 
but do not let it boil ; then pour over the eggs and serve immediately. 



39 



35* ^SS^ ^ ^^ Turqtce. 

Cook twelve eggs the same as for No. 33, and pour over them 
six chicken livers, tossed gently but rapidly in a saucepan on a brisk 
fire with one ounce of butter for three minutes, and then with a spoon 
remove all the butter from the saucepan. Season with a pinch of salt, 
and half a pinch of white pepper, adding half a glass of good Ma- 
deira wine. Reduce it to one half, then add one gill of hot Ma- 
deira sauce (No. 103), heat up a little, and then pour the sauce over 
the eggs and serve. 



40 



36. Eggs h TImpiratrice. 

Cook twelve eggs exactly as in No. 33, arranging six small slices 
of pit^-de-foie-gras, one on top of each t^g%y and serving very hot. 

37* Eggs h la Suisse. 

Fry twelve eggs as for No. 33 ; after cooking for two minutes, 
cover with half a pint of hot tomato sauce, and add three cooked 
sausages, cut in two, also a little grated cheese, then send to the 
table. 



41 



38. Eggs it la Chipolata. 

Prepare twelve eggs as for No. 33, and cover them with a pint of 
hot Chipolata garnishing (No. 112), and serve very hot. 

39. Eggs it rAlsacienne. 

Fry twelve eggs as for No. 33, only putting them on a long dish. 
Add one chopped onion to four ounces of finely minced calf's liver, 
quickly toss them on a brisk fire for about eight minutes, then pour in 
about six to eight drops of vinegar, a pinch of salt, and a little pepper 
to season. Garnish both ends of the dish with this, then serve. 



4a 



40. Eggs it tAurore. 

Boil twelve eggs until hard, then let them cool ; shell them, and 
separate the yolks from the whites, putting the former into a mortar, 
adding one ounce of fresh butter, a pinch of salt, half a pinch of nut- 
meg, the same of ground spice, and three raw t%g yolks ; pound all 
well together. Mince the whites, and put them in a sautoire with a 
pint of well reduced bechamel (No. io8), cook without boiling, al- 
though letting them attain a good consistency ; place them on the dish 
used for serving, lay the pounded yolks on top, and garnish with 
twelve square sippets of bread dipped in beaten t^^'g^ and put in the 
oven to brown for about four minutes ; then serve. 



43 



41. Eggs it la Polonaise. 

Cut twelve hard-boiled eggs in halves, separate the whites from 
the yolks, and ix>und the latter in a mortar, adding about one ounce 
of butter, a pinch of salt, half a pinch of ground spice, a saltspoonful 
of grated nutmeg, and five raw yolks ; when well blended, without 
any lumps, strew half a tablespoonful of very fine chopped parsley 
over, and add the whites of the five eggs well beaten. Garnish the 
bottom of a baking-dish with this preparation, laying it in about a 
finger thick ; also fill the whites with a part of it, making them have 
the appearance of whole eggs. Arrange them tastefully on top, and 
set the dish in the oven ; brown slightly for about five minutes, re- 
move it from the oven, lay the dish on top of another, wipe the sides 
carefully, and serve immediately. 



44 



42. Eggs it la Sauce Robert. 

Peel two medium-sized onions, and remove the hearts, cut them in 
slices (the hearts), and put them with a tablespoonful of butter in a 
saucepan on a brisk fire, and brown them well. Moisten with a cupful 
of lean broth, season with a pinch of salt and half a pinch of pepper, 
cook, and let the sauce reduce for about ten minutes. When ready 
to serve, cut eight hard-boiled eggs into slices, mix them in the prep* 
aration, and let heat together without boiling for two minutes ; finish 
with a teaspoonful of diluted mustard, and then serve. 



45 



43* ^SS^ ^ ^^ Hyde. 

Boil six fresh eggs for seven minutes, then lay them in cold 
water for five minutes to cool them off ; shell them, and put 
them on a plate. Hash fine half a small canful of mushrooms 
with two branches of parsley and one medium-sized, sound 
shallot. Put in a saucepan on the hot stove one ounce of good 
butter, and when melted add the prepared mushrooms, and let cook 
rather slowly for fifteen minutes, stirring it occasionally. Add half a 
pint of Madeira sauce (No. 103), season with a pinch of salt and a 



46 



light pinch of pepper, then cook again slowly for ten minutes. 
Strain the whole through a fine sieve into another saucepan, 
and set it aside to keep warm ; cut the six hard-boiled eggs into 
halves, remove the entire yolks, and mash them thoroughly in a bowl, 
adding half an ounce of good, fresh butter and half a pint of sweet 
cream. Season with a light pinch of salt, half a pinch of pepper, and 
half a teaspoonful of grated nutmeg ; mix well together, and with this 
fill the twelve pieces of egg-white. Lay them on a lightly buttered 
dish, pour the sauce over, and put them in the oven for eight min- 
utes before sending to the table. 



47 



44- Eggs it la Bennett. 

Cut twelve hard-boiled eggs lengthwise, remove the yolks, and 
place them in a bowl with two ounces of good butter, a teaspoonful of 
anchovy essence, and a pinch of chopped chives. Beat well together, 
and fill the whites with it, besprinke with bread-crumbs, and pour 
over a few drops of clarified butter ; put them in the oven for three 
minutes on a buttered dish, and serve with half a pint of hot Madeira 
sauce (No. 103) thrown over. 



48 



45- Eggs it la Dtuhesse. 

Place a quarter of a pound of powdered sugar in a saucepan, add- 
ing half a pint of water, a small piece of lemon peel, and a short stick 
of cinnamon. Boil until the sugar is reduced to a syrup, then re- 
move the lemon peel and cinnamon, and add halfa teaspoonful of 
orange-flower water. Beat together, then strain twelve ^%% yolks with 
a pint of milk or cream, add this to the syrup with a very little salt, 
then transfer the whole to a silver baking-dish, place it on the hot 
stove, and let cook for ten minutes, stirring briskly, and when it 
forms a cream, squeeze in the juice of a fine, sound lemon ; remove 
from the fire, lay the dish on another, and send to the table. 



49 



46. Plain Omelet. 

Crack into a bowl twelve fresh eggs, season them with a pinch of 
salt and half a pinch of white pepper, beat them well until the whites 
and yolks are thoroughly mixed, or for fully four minutes. Place in 
a No. 8 frying-pan two tablespoonfuls of clarified butter ; heat it well 
on the hot range, and when it crackles pour in the eggs, and with a 
fork stir all well for two minutes, then let rest for half a minute. Fold 
up with the fork — the side nearest the handle first — to the centre of 
the omelet, then the opposite side, so that both sides will meet 
right in the centre ; let rest for half a minute longer ; have a hot dish 
in the left hand, take hold of the handle of the pan with the right, 
bring both dish and pan to a triangular shape, and with a rapid move- 
ment turn the pan right over the centre of the dish, and send to the 



50 



table. (The omelet should be made on a very brisk range, without 
taking the lid off the stove.) 

Should the pan be smaller than the above-mentioned No. 8 it will 
require three minutes' stirring, one minute to rest, and half a minute 
to rest after having been folded. 

When making an omelet for one person, for instance, use three 
fresh eggs, seasoned with half a teaspoonful of salt, and half a salt- 
spoonful of white pepper. Thoroughly heat in a small frying-pan 
half a teaspoonful of clarified butter ; after sharply beatingnhe eggs 
in the bowl, pour into the pan, and gently mix for one minute on a 
very brisk range, let rest for a quarter of a minute, fold one side up, 
rest a quarter of a minute more, then turn on a small hot dish, and 
serve. 



51 



47- Omelet with Fine Herbs. 

Break twelve fresh eggs into a bowl, add a pinch of finely chopped 
parsley, half a pinch of chopped tarragon, and half a pinch of chives; 
also, if desired, half a cupful of sweet cream. Beat the whole thor- 
oughly without stopping for four minutes ; melt one ounce of good 
butter in a frying-pan on the hot stove ; when it is melted and be- 
gins to crackle, pour in the eggs, and mix them gently with a fork, 
while they cook for three minutes : let them rest for one minute, then 
bring the sides toward the centre, turn it on a hot dish, and serve. 



53 



48. Oyster Omelet. 

Blanch eighteen oysters to boiling point in their own water ; drain, 
and return them to the saucepan, moistening with half a pint of good 
Allemande (No. iii) ; season with half a pinch of salt. Make a 
plain omelet with twelve eggs as for No. 46, bring the sides toward 
the centre, and fill it with the oyster preparation. Turn it on a hot 
dish, pour the rest of the sauce around, and serve very hot. 



53 



49* Crawfish Omelet. 

Stew twelve crawfish tails in a sautoire on the hot stove with half 
an ounce of butter, letting them cook for five minutes. Break twelve 
eggs into a bowl, add half a cupful of sweet cream, and a pinch of 
finely chopped parsley ; season with a pinch of salt and half a pinch 
of pepper, then sharply beat for four minutes. Make an omelet as in 
No. 46, fold up the side opposite the handle of the ]:)an, place the 
crawfish right in the centre, fold up the other side, turn it on a hot 
dish, and serve. 



54 



50. Lobster Omelet. 

Take* six ounces of boiled lobster meat, and cut it into small 
pieces; put them into a sautoire with half a glassful of white wine 
and a quarter of an ounce of butter. Moisten with a quarter of a 
pint of strong, hot bechamel (No. io8), and let cook for five minutes. 
Make an omelet of twelve eggs as for No. 46, and with a skimmer 
place the stewed lobster in the middle, fold the opposite side, pour in 
the garnishing, fold the other side up, turn it on a hot dish, pour the 
sauce around it, and serve 



55 



5 1 . Tomato Omelet. 

Break twelve fresh eggs in a bowl, season them with a pinch of salt 
and half a pinch of pepper, and beat thoroughly for four minutes. 
Place two ounces of butter in a frying-pan on a hot stove, let it heat 
well without browning, then pour into it half a pint of freshly cooked 
stewed tomatoes, suppressing all the liquid. Cook for two minutes, 
then throw the beaten eggs over, and with a fork mix the whole gent- 
ly for three minutes; let rest for one minute longer. Bring up the 
two opposite sides, turn it carefully on a hot dish, and serve. 



56 



52. Tomato Omelet it la Pr oven f ale. 

Peel a medium-sized, sound onion, then chop it fine ; place it in 
a sautoire on the hot stove with one ounce of butter, and let get a 
good golden color, adding half a pint of stewed tomatoes, or two 
good-sized, peeled raw tomatoes cut into small slices, a crushed 
clove of garlic, and season (should the tomatoes be fresh) with a pinch 
of salt and half a pinch of pepper, adding a teaspoonful of chopped 
parsley; let the whole cook together for ten minutes; then proceed as 
for the tomato omelet (No. 51). 



57 



53- Asparagus-top Omelet. 

Put a quarter of a bunch of boiled asparagus-tops into a bowl, pour 
twelve beaten eggs over, season with a pinch of salt and half a pinch 
of pepper, mix lightly again, and make an omelet exactly as for No. 
46. 

54. Omelet y with Green Peas. 

Break twelve eggs into a bowl, adding half a pint of boiled green 
peas, a pinch each of salt and pepper, beat well for four minutes, and 
make into an omelet as for No. 46. 



58 



55- Omelet au dpes. 

Fry six cfepes, cut into small pieces, in half an ounce of butter for 
two minutes. Beat twelve eggs in a bowl, season with a pinch of salt 
and half a pinch of pepper, pour them over the c^pes, and make an 
omelet as for No. 46. 

56. Smoked Beef Omelet. 

Fry two ounces of finely minced, smoked beef in a frying-pan, with 
half an ounce of butter, add twelve well-beaten eggs, and make an 
omelet as for No. 46. 



59 



5 7« Ham Omelet. 

Cut about two ounces of lean ham into small, square pieces, fry 
them for two minutes with an ounce of butter in a frying-pan, and 
throw over twelve well-beaten eggs ; with this make an omelet as for 
No 46. 



58. CroA Omelet. 

Proceed exactly the same as for No. 50, substituting six ounces of 
crab meat cut into small pieces, for the lobster. 



60 



59- Kidney Omelet. 

Stew on the hot stove three minced kidneys, with a quarter of a 
pint of Madeira wine sauce (No. 103), let cook for three minutes. 
Make a plain omelet with twelve eggs as for No. 46, fold the oppo- 
posite side up, put the kidneys in the centre, fold the other side up, 
and turn on a dish, and pour the sauce around ; then serve. 

60. Chicken Liver Omelet. 

The same as for the above (No. 59), substituting six minced 
chicken livers for the kidneys. 



61 



6 1 . Sausage Omelet. 

Skin three raw sausages, then put them in a saucepan with a quar- 
ter of an ounce of butter ; set it on the hot fire for five minutes, and 
stir well until they cook. Make a plain omelet with twelve eggs, as 
for No. 46, fold the opposite side, lay the sausages in the centre, fold 
the other side up, and serve with a quarter of a pint of hot Madeira 
sauce (No. 103), poured around the omelet. 



62 



62. Omelet Bonne Fentnte. 

Cut one ounce of salt pork into small square pieces, also two ta- 
blespoonfuls of crust from off a fresh loaf of bread cut the same way; 
fry them together in a frying-pan with an ounce of butter for about 
two minutes, adding a boiled potato cut into small squares, a pinch 
of chopped parsley, half a pinch of chopped chives, half a pinch of 
salt, and the same quantity of pepper. Beat twelve eggs for four 
minutes in a bowl, p)Our them into the pan, and make an omelet as for 
No. 46; turn on a hot dish, and serve. 



63 



63. Omelet RaspaiL 

Chop one raw onion very fine, and put it in a saucepan with an 
ounce of butter. Take one ounce of small squares of salt pork, cook 
them slightly, adding an ounce of scraps of very finely minced, cooked 
roast beef, the same of ham, two finely chopped mushrooms, and a 
pinch of chopped parsley. Stir in well a tablespoonful of tomato 
sauce and a tablespoonful of grated bread crumbs ; season with 
a pinch of pepper and third of a pinch of salt. Make a plain om- 
elet with twelve eggs as for No. 46, fold up the opposite side, fill it 
with the preparation, fold the other side up, turn it on a hot dish, and 
serve. 



64 



64. Sardine Omelet. 

Thorojughly skin eight fine sardines, place six of them in a frying- 
pan with an ounce of butter, cook for two minutes. Beat well twelve 
eggs in a bowl. Season with one pinch of salt and half a pinch of 
pepper, add them to the sardines in the pan; make an omelet as in 
No. 46, fold the opposite end up, place the two remaining sardines 
right in the centre, fold the other end up, turn it on a hot dish, and 
send to the table. 



65 



65. Cheese Omelet. 

Put one ounce of butter in a frying-pan, heat it on the hot stove. 
Break twelve eggs into a bowl, beat them thoroughly for four minutes, 
adding two tablespoonfuls of grated Swiss cheese, half a pinch of salt, 
and half a pinch of pepper. Pour the whole into the frying-pan, and 
make an omelet as for No. 46; turn it on a hot dish, and besprinkle 
the top lightly with a very little Parmesan cheese; place in the oven 
for two seconds, then serve. 



66 



66. Omelet Rigence. 

Make an omelet with twelve eggs as for No. 46, and when nearly 
cooked, fold up the opposite side, then fill the centre with a quarter 
of a pint of hot Rigence garnishing (No. 30), fold the other side up; 
turn on a hot dish, pour the sauce around, and serve hot. 



67 



67. Omelet ii la Vanderbilt. 

Take two fine, sound, green peppers, plunge them into hot fat for 

half a minute, then take them up and lay them on a dry cloth; skin 

them neatly, remove all the seeds from the insides, and when emptied 

cut them into small slices. Put these into a saucepan on the hot 

stove with two medium-sized fresh, sound, sliced tomatoes, twelve 

nicely shelled shrimps, and three tablespoonfuls of Madeira wine 

sauce (No. 103), then season with half a pinch of salt and a third of a 

pinch of pepper; cook slowly for fifteen minutes. Break twelve fresh 

eggs into a bowl, season them with half a pinch of salt and a third of 

a pinch of pepper, and beat well for five minutes. Put two ounces of 

good butter in a frying-pan, place it on the hot stove, and when the 

butter is melted drop in the eggs, and with a spoon or fork mix briskly 

for two minutes. Fold the opposite side up with a skimmer, lift up 

the thick part of the prepared sauce, and place it in the centre of the 

omelet, fold the other side either with a knife or fork, and let it cook 

for two minutes longer, then turn on a hot dish; pour the rest of the 

sauce in the saucepan around the omelet, and send to the table very hot. 

68 



68. Omelet k [ Espagnole, 

Put in a stewpan on the stove one finely shred onion, one ounce of 
butter, a chopped green pepper; six minced mushrooms, and one 
large, finely cut-up tomato; season with half a pinch of pepper and 
one pinch of salt, adding a spoonful of tomato sauce ; let cook 
for fifteen minutes. Make a plain omelet with twelve eggs, as for 
No. 46, fold the opposite side, and put more than half of the stew 
inside of it, say three-quarters; fold the other side up, and turn it on 
a long dish, then pour the rest of the sauce around, and serve. 



69 



69. Omelet Mexicaine. 

Have a pint of velout^ sauce (No. 115) in a saucepan, place it on 
a moderate fire, add a piece of lobster butter (No. 116) about the size 
of an ^%g^ twenty-four shelled and cooked shrimps, and season with 
half a pinch of salt and a very little pepper. Let cook for three 
minutes, stirring it lightly, then add half of a good-sized, empty and 
peeled green pepper, finely hashed; cook for two minutes longer, then 
let rest on the comer of the stove. Make an omelet with twelve eggs, 
as for No. 46, fold up the opposite side, pour half of the preparation 
in the centre, fold the other end up, turn the omelet on a hot dish, 
and garnish both sides with the rest of the shrimps, pouring the bal- 
ance around the dish: then send to the table. 



70 



70. Sweet Omelet. 

Beat and sweeten with one ounce of sugar twelve eggs; make an 
omelet as for No. 46, using one ounce of fresh butter; turn it on a 
dish, and dredge another ounce of sugar over, then glaze it with a 
hot shovel or salamander, and serve very warm. > 



71 



71. Omelet. SouffUe^ for Six Persons. 

Have a deep, cold, silver dish ready, fifteen inches long by eleven 
wide. Put into a vessel four ounces of powdered sugar. Break 
twelve fresh eggs, drop the whites into a copper basin, and the yolks 
of five into the vessel containing the sugar, reserving the other seven 
yolks for other purposes. Add to the vessel containing the sugar and 
yolks a light teaspoonful of vanilla essence: now with the wooden 
spatula, begin to beat the yolks with the sugar as briskly as you possi- 
bly can for fifteen minutes. Lay it aside. Then with the aid of a 
pastry wire-whip, beat up to a very stiff froth the twelve tg% whites in 
the copper basin, which will take from twelve to fifteen minutes. Re- 
move the pastry wire- whip; take a skimmer in the right hand, and with 
the left take hold of the vessel containing the preparation of the yolks 
and sugar. Gradually pour it over the whites, and with the skimmer 



72 



gently mix the whole together for two minutes. The preparation will 
now be of a light, firm consistency. Now, with the aid again of the 
skimmer, take up the preparation and drop it down in the centre of 
the cold dish, ready as above mentioned, taking special care to pile it 
as high as possible, so as to have it of a perfect dome-shape ; a few 
incisions can be made all around, according to taste; immediately 
place it in a moderate oven to bake for fifteen minutes. Take it out 
of the oven, and, in order to avoid burning or soiling the table-cloth, 
lay the dish containing the omelet on another cold one, liberally sprin- 
kle powdered sugar over it, and immediately send to the table. 

N. B. — Special care should be taken when piling the preparation 
into the cold, silver dish; and the making of the incisions should be 
done as rapidly as possible, so that success will be certain. When 
desired, the vanilla essence can be substituted with the same quantity 
of orange- flower water. 

73 



72. Omelet au Kirsch, or Rum. 

Make a sweet omelet with twelve eggs as for No. 70; when com- 
pleted and glazed, throw around it a glassful of kirsch, and set the 
omelet on fire; serve it while burning. Rum omelet is prepared ex- 
actly the same way, substituting rum for kirsch. 



74 



"jy Omelet dies tine. 

Pulverize six macaroons, put them in a bowl, adding three table- 
spoonfuls of apple jelly and one spoonful of whipped cream; mix 
well with the spatula. Make a sweet omelet as for No. 70, with twelve 
eggs; fold the opposite side up, pour the mixture into the centre, 
fold the other end up, turn it on a hot dish, and sprinkle the top 
with three tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar; glaze the omelet with 
a hot shovel or salamander, and decorate it with three lady-fingers 
cut in two, also a cupful of whipped cream, the latter poured into 
a paper-funnel, and piped over in any design the fancy may dictate. 



75 



74. Eggs k la W. B. Kendall. 

Have six medium-sized, thoroughly ripe, red and sound tomatoes, 
wash and dry them; cut away a piece an inch in diameter at the bot- 
tom of the tomatoes, including the stems; remove the seed with a 
vegetable scoop. Lightly butter a little sautoire, then gently lay the 
tomatoes in the pan, the cut part upward, mix one tablespoonful of 
salt with a teaspoonful of pepper, and with it equally season the inside 
of the tomatoes; sprinkle their surface with a little clarified butter, 
then place in a very hot oven for three minutes. Remove them from 
the oven, place the sautoire on a table, then crack one fresh ^%;g into 
each tomato, place them in the oven again for two minutes, remove 



76 



them. Arrange six fried bread croOtons on a hot dish, then with the 
cake-turner take the tomatoes one by one and lay them over each 
crodton. Chop up very fine one sound peeled shallot, one green pep- 
per, and half a clove of sound garlic, place these in a sautoire with a 
tablespoonful of clarified butter, range the pan on the corner of the 
hot stove, and slowly simmer for four minutes, then add a gill of tomato 
sauce, and one drop of tabasco sauce; cook for three minutes. Strain 
the same through a sieve into a hot bowl, sharply pressing the pep- 
pers with a wooden spoon. Pour the sauce now around the toma- 
toes, but not on top of them, and send to the table. 



77 



75' ^SS^ Molet. 

Take six fresh eggs, drop them all at the same time with a skim- 
mer or a spoon into boiling water, and let boil for five minutes and a 
half, but no longer; lift them up, and immediately drop them into 
cold water for two minutes, then take them up carefully; peel them 
— seeing that the white is intact — then keep them in a little warm 
consomm^ or water. Have a quart of hot pur6e of chestnuts (No. 
117), place it in a pastry-bag, in which you previously slide down a 
fancy tube, then nicely decorate the border of a silver dish, large 
enough to hold the six eggs, also a little at the bottom to lay 
the eggs over. Place the dish in the hot oven for two minutes, 
then pour in the centre of the dish a gill of demi-glace sauce (No. 
103); gently lay the eggs in the centre of the dish, and serve. 

The above eggs can be served in various ways — with chicory gar- 
nishing, spinach, sorrel, Spanish sauce, plain, etc. 

7S 



76. Eggs it la Villeroi. 

Take three fresh, hard boiled eggs, cut each one into half, length- 
wise, remove the yolks, and chop up the latter very fine, leaving the 
whites on a plate for further action. Chop up very fine one medium- 
sized sound truffle, one ounce of cooked smoked beef tongue— the red 
part by preference. Place these in a sautoire with a tablespoonful of 
Madeira wine, reduce on the hot range until almost dry, then add the 
chopped-up yolks, and a tablespoonful of poulette sauce (No. 118). 
Season with a tablespoonful of salt and a teaspoon ful of pepper, mix 
all well together. Then stuff the six half t%% whites with the prepara- 
tion evenly divided, and giving them an oval shape. Have a gill of 
poulette sauce (No. 118), then with a fork steep each ^%% in it, so as 
to completely cover them with the sauce. Place them on a dish and 
let cool off. Beat up an t.%% in a bowl with two tablespoonful s cold 
milk, gently roll the eggs in it, then roll them in fresh bread-crumbs. 
Fry them in very hot fat for five minutes. Take them up with a skim- 
mer, dress on a hot dish with a folded napkin, and serve with a gill of 

cream sauce (No. 119) in a bowl separate. 

79 



n* ^SS^ ^ ^ Buckley. 

Take six hard boiled eggs, cut them in halves crosswise, take out 
the yolks, place them in a bowl, then with a spoon mash them with an 
ounce of good butter, season with a teaspoonful of salt and half a tea- 
spoonful of pepper, add a teaspoonful of freshly chopped chives, and 
a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, onetablespoonful of cold milk, and 
two tablespoonfuls of very fresh bread-crumbs. Mix the whole well 
together with a spoon, then with the preparation fill the hollow space 
of the twelve half eggs just even up to the surface. Close them to- 
gether so as to give them their original shape. Then carefully press 
a skewer through one ^%gy right in the centre lengthwise, then another, 
so as to have two on each skewer, repeat the same with the other four. 



80 



Lay them in a sautoire with a gill of white broth (No. loi). Cover the 
sautoire with either a copper or tin cover, and place in the oven for 
five minutes. Remove them; have a hot dish ready with three canapes. 
Arrange the skewers over each canap^, and serve with the following 
sauce: 

Cut into small dice-shaped pieces four mushrooms, one good-sized 
sound truffle, and one ounce of cooked chicken breast; place these in 
a sautoire with half a wine-glassful of white wine. Reduce it on the 
range for three minutes, or until almost dry, then add a gill of poulette 
sauce (No. ii8). Continually stir until very hot, but do not allow it 
to boil. Now pour the sauce around the eggs on the canapes, but not 
over them, then serve. 



8i 



78. Eggs it la yay Gould. 

Prepare in a sautoire two ounces of good butter, half a gill of 
Allemande sauce (No. m), three tablespoonfuls of grated Parmesan 
cheese and one tablespoon ful of white broth (No. loi). Place on the 
hot range and stir until the cheese is thoroughly dissolved, then place 
the pan on the corner of the range to keep warm. Take six hard 
boiled shelled eggs. Cut each one into four even slices crosswise, 
season with a tablespoonf ul of salt and a teaspoonf ul of pepper equally 
divided. Lightly butter a silver dish. Arrange a very thin layer of 
the above garnishing over it. Take the sliced eggs and lay one slice 
on the dish, then a very small thin slice of Swiss cheese — then again 



82 



a slice of egg and a slice of cheese — always keeping them one over- 
lapping another, both eggs and cheese; continue the same with the 
rest, giving a crown shape around the dish. 

Pour half a gill of hot tomato sauce on top of both eggs and 
cheese, equally divided. Now pour the balance of the garnish- 
ing over all, also equally divided; lightly sprinkle the top with a very 
little clarified butter, and then place in a brisk oven for eight minutes, 
so that it should get a good brown color. Remove from out the' oven 
and serve immediately. 



83 



^ I 



79- ^SS^ ^ ^^ ^' ^' Evarts. 

Have six hard boiled shelled eggs, carefully cut away the third 
part of each t%;g on the surface. Remove the yolks without breaking 
the whites, leave the whites on a plate until further action: thorough- 
ly mash the yolks in a bowl with a spoon; add a teaspoonful of grated 
Parmesan cheese, a tablespoonful of Allemande sauce (No. iii), half 
a teaspoonful of anchovy sauce. Season with one tablespoonful of 
salt and half a teaspoonful of pepper. Knead all well together, then 
fill the inside of the eggs with the preparation, and giving them an 
oval shape a quarter of an inch over the surface. Cut three of the six 
pieces into small strips lengthwise, a quarter of an inch thick, gently 



84 



lay one strip over each egg crosswise — right in the centre, so that, 
when completed, they will represent small fancy baskets. Neatly 
decorate their surface with a little cooked jardiniere; arranged in this 
way they will represent perfect baskets of abundance. Arrange a 
small layer of the preparation for each egg on a silver dish just wide 
enough to hold each one firmly. Place the eggs now on top of each 
layer, pour a gill of Colbert sauce (No. 120) around the dish, but 
none over the eggs. Cover them with a piece of well-buttered paper, 
then place in the oven — rather moderate — for two minutes. Take 
from out the oven and immediately send to the table. 



85 



8o. Eggs it la Geo. O. Jones. 

Take six shelled hard boiled eggs, cut away at the pointed end of 
each egg a piece half an inch thick, and at the other end a quarter of 
an inch thick. Remove the yolks with a small vegetable scoop, or 
with a pointed knife, mash the yolks in a bowl very fine, and lay them 
aside for further action. 

Place in a sautoire half an ounce of good butter, add one sound 
shelled finely chopped shallot, place the pan on the corner of the 
range, and let simmer, but do not let get brown, add then a table- 
spoonful of Bechamel sauce (No. io8), a teaspoonful of freshly 
chopped up parsley, a tablespoonful of finely grated horse-radish. 
Now add also the yolks, season with a tablespoonful of salt and half a 



86 



saltspoonful of Cayenne pepper; mix all well together with a wooden 
spoon, and then with it stuff the six eggs, so as to give them the exact 
shape of small barrels. 

Lightly butter a tin pan, carefully lay the eggs in it, the stuffed 
part uppermost, sprinkle a little grated Parmesan cheese right in the 
centre of the stuffed part of the eggs. Cover them with a piece of 
buttered paper, place them in a moderate oven for twelve minutes. 
Carefully remove them from the oven, take off the paper. Have a 
hot dish with six fried bread croOtons, half an inch high by one and a 
half inches in diameter, gently place an egg on each croiiton; pour a 
gill of hot demi-glace (No. 103) around the dish (none over the eggs) 
and immediately serve. 



87 



8i. Eggs it la A. /^ Bowers. 

Peel a quarter of a pound of fine, fresh, sound mushrooms, wash 
them thoroughly, seeing that no sand remains on; lay six of the larg- 
est aside (with their stem cut away) for further action. Place in a 
sautoire one ounce of butter, two tablespoonfuls of flour; place this 
pan on the comer of a hot range, and let gently cook for eight min- 
utes, slightly stirring once in a while. Add now the mushrooms, 
season with a tablespoonful of salt and half a teaspoonful of pepper, 
also half a saltspoonful of grated nutmeg, squeezing in the juice of a 
quarter of a sound lemon; mix all well together, then add a gill of 
milk, and let cook for five minutes, lightly stirring meanwhile. Strain 
through a fine sieve into a bowl, and keep it in a warm place until fur- 
ther action. 



88 



Have six shelled hard boiled eggs, and with the point of a keen 
knife make eight triangular incisions right in the centre of each egg 
down to the yolk, then with hands gently pull them apart. Remove 
the yolks, and mash them very fine, then well mix the latter with the 
preparation, and then with it stuff the eggs, giving them a dome shape. 
Lightly butter a silver dish, place a thin layer of the preparation over 
it. Firmly lay the six large mushrooms upside down over the layer, 
place half a teaspoonful of the force in the centre of each mushroom, 
then gently lay the eggs perpendicular over each mushroom. Slice a 
small truffle into six thin slices, place one on top of each tgg, sprinkle 
a little clarified butter over all, cover them with buttered paper, then 
place in a moderate oven for fifteen minutes. Remove and serve with 
a gill of hot demi-glace (No. 103), in a bowl separate. 



89 



82. Eggs ii la Hamilton Fish. 

Cut up into very small dice shaped pieces, one medium sized 
sound truffle, an ounce of cooked smoked beef tongue, and four 
mushrooms. Place them in a sautoire on the range, with half a glass 
of Madeira wine. Reduce the wine to one half, add now a gill of 
Madeira sauce (No. 103), and a drop of anchovy sauce, then cook for 
five minutes. 

Take six shelled hard boiled eggs, cut them into halves length- 
wise, remove the yolks, chop them up very fine, and add them to the 
sauce; mix all well together, and with this preparation stuff the whites. 
Close them together, place them in a lightly buttered sautoire, pour 
into it two tablespoonfuls of white broth (No. loi). Cover them with 



90 



a sheet of buttered paper, and then place in the oven for eight 
minutes. 

Have a hot dish, arrange six fried bread crofttons over it. Take 
the eggs from out the oven, and place one on each crodton. 

Plunge six small anchovies into hot water, take them up and dry 
well, arrange one around each egg in the centre, so as to represent a 
ring. 

Cut up a medium-sized sound truffle into twelve small slices, trian- 
gular shape, then place one slice on top of the tgg right in the centre 
on each side of the anchovy, proceed the same with the rest. 

Pour a gill of hot Colbert sauce (No. 1 20), in the centre of the 
dish, but not over the eggs, and then send to the table. 



91 



83. Eggs ^ la Darling. 

Provide one dozen of very tender, sound celery knots, peel and thor- 
oughly wash them twice. Cut them in quarters, then place them in a 
saucepan with one ounce of butter, a quart of white broth (No. loi), a 
sprig of thyme, three cloves and twenty whole peppers, place the pan on 
the hot range and cook for sixty minutes. Strain through a sieve into 
another saucepan, seeing that everything is strained except the cloves 
and peppers. Dilute a teaspoonful of corn starch into half a cup of 
cold milk, and gradually add it to the pur^e, sharply stirring mean- 
while. Cook for three minutes longer. Have six shelled hard boiled 
eggs ready, then place the pur^e right in the centre of a hot dish, giv- 
ing it a dome shape. Gently arrange the six eggs around it, leaning 
slightly against the dome as a support to the column. Lay a thin 
slice of truffle in the centre of each, then pour a gill of hot Madeira 
sauce (No. 103), around the dish, but not over the eggs, and then 
serve. 

92 



84. Eggs it la Mme. Morton. 

Carefully crack six fresh eggs on a saucer; heat in a frying-pan 
on the hot stove one tablespoonful of clarified butter, then drop in one 
^gg and fry for two minutes, lift it up with a palette knife, carefully 
lay it on a hot dish, and continue the same with the other h\t. 

Prepare six well designed round bread croiitons as for No. 102. 
Lay a very thin slice, the size of the croQton, of pat^-de-foie-gras over 
each croOton, and then with a round paste cutter, two inches and a 
half in diameter, place it right in the centre of each tggy taking special 
care to keep the yolks exactly in the centre, so as to cut away the 
white of each tgg evenly from all around each yolk. Place one tgg 
on top of each crodton, pour a gill of hot P^rigueux sauce (No. no), 
around the eggs, but not over them, and serve. 



93 



85. Eggs it la Belmont. 

Place in a sautoire eight well washed sound mushrooms, with half 
an ounce of butter, on the hot range, squeezing in just one drop of 
lemon juice, let gently simmer for three minutes; add a sound finely 
sliced up trufHe, also half a wine-glassful of Madeira wine; let reduce 
to one half, which will take about three minutes, add then a gill of 
Espagnole sauce (No. 105) and cook for three minutes longer. 

Prepare twelve small pdt^-de-foie-gras balls the size of a Malaga 
grape, gently dip them in beaten ^gg^ then in fresh bread-crumbs, and 
then fry them in very hot fat for two minutes, or until they obtain a 
good golden color, remove them with a skimmer, and lay them on a 



94 



napkin to drain. Take up the mushrooms and truffles with a skimmer 
from the sauce, arrange them in two clusters, one at each end of the 
dish, as well as the twelve croquettes, also in clusters, six on each side 
of the dish. 

Poach six very fresh eggs exactly as in No. i. Cut out from an 
American bread six round crotitons, arrange them on the hot dish all 
around. Plunge into hot broth or consomm6 six artichoke bottoms, 
take them up and place one on each crodton. Pour the sauce right in 
the middle of the dish, but not over the eggs; place a slice of truffle 
on top of each egg^ and serve. 



95 



86. Eggs it la Mme. Diaz. 

Have three large sound green peppers, plunge them into very hot 
fat for two minutes, take them out, and with a coarse dry towel remove 
the skin of each; then cut each pepper into half, lengthwise, remove 
the seeds, have a frying pan on the hot range, two tablespoonfuls of 
either sweet oil or clarified butter. Cut six very thin slices of raw 
ham, place them gently in the pan, add the peppers also, and then 
gently cook for fifteen minutes. Prepare six pieces of dry toast, dress 
them on a hot dish, then place a slice of ham over each toast, then 
half a pepper over the ham. 

Fry six very fresh eggs separately in clarified butter as for No. 
84, and then gently place one on top of each pepper, and send to 
the table 



96 



8;. Eggs it la D. B. Hill. 

Carefully open (without losing any of their juice) into a bowl 
twelve medium sized fresh oysters; place them in a sautoire on the 
hot range, and let come to a boil, skim well, then strain the juice into 
a bowl, and keep the oysters in a separate bowl for further action. 

Place in a pan one tablespoonful of very good butter with a table- 
spoonful of flour, mix well together with the spatula, then place it on 
the hot range and let slowly simmer for five minutes, taking care not 
to let get brown. Add now, little by little, the juice of the oysters, 
continually stirring meanwhile. Season with a teaspoonf ul of pepper. 
(If the oysters were not very salted, a little salt can be added.) Stir 
continually until it comes to a boil, and then let slowly cook for five 
minutes; add now six sliced mushrooms and the twelve oysters. 

Lightly butter a deep silver dish, place the above sauce into it, 

then carefully crack in six fresh eggs; sprinkle a very little salt over 

them, sprinkle also the top with a very little clarified butter. Place 

them in the hot oven for two minutes. Remove from out the oven, 

decorate the dish with six heart-shaped bread croutons, and serve. 

97 



88. Eggs a la W. W. Ladd, Jr. 

Provide four fine, sound, white Kalamazoo celery. Cut away all 
the green leaves, and neatly trim it; thoroughly wash twice in cold 
water, so that no sand will adhere to the celery; cut the three celery, 
three inches long from the root part, crosswise. Place three pieces in 
a saucepan with one quart of white broth (No. loi). Season with 
half a tablespoonful of salt, four whole peppers, two cloves, and ii 
sprig 6f thyme. Cover the pan, and let boil on the range for thirty 
minutes. Chop up very fine the balance of the celery, then place it 
in a small saucepan with one ounce of butter, let simmer for ^^t, min- 
utes, add two tablespoonfuls of well sifted flour; stir well together, 
and cook for ^vt, minutes longer; gradually add now a cup of either 
hot or cold milk, stirring well without ceasing while adding it, and 
until it begins to boil; season with a tablespoonful of salt, and half a 
saltspoonful of Cayenne pepper, and cook for twenty minutes longer. 
Remove it from the range, press it through a sieve into a bowl. Well 

98 



butter a silver dish a foot and a quarter in length by three-quarters 
in width. Slide a tube into a pastry bag, pour the celery puree 
into it, and carefully press it down two inches from the centre of 
the dish, commencing at the side of the dish, coming down two 
inches and a half to the right, continuing going all around giving 
an oval shape; make another oval border over the other. Crack six 
fresh eggs in the centre inside the border, then place the dish in the 
hot oven for five minutes. Take up the celery from the pan, place on 
a dish, then split each one in two from the cut part down to the root 
only. Remove the eggs from the oven; open each celery triangular 
shape, place it jointly around the border so as to make it represent a 
star. Strain the broth in which the celery was cooked into a hot bowl, 
add to it a teaspoonful of freshly chopped parsley, mix a little, and 
then pour about a gill of it around the celery, but not over the eggs, 
and serve very hot. 

99 



89. Eggs it la Cockrane. 

Take two sweet Spanish peppers, one ounce of cooked smoked 
beef tongue, cut them with a tube into slices the size of a cent, place 
them on a dish with six mushroom buttons until further action. Chop 
up very fine one sound peeled shallot, and put in a sautoire with a 
teaspoonful of butter, let cook for two minutes on the hot range. 
Chop up very fine the remainder of the tongue and Spanish peppers, 
place them in the sautoire with the shallot, moisten with a tablespoon- 
ful of Madeira wine, let simmer for one minute, then add half a 
gill of tomato sauce, and half a gill of Espagnole sauce (No. 
105). Cook for two minutes. Add now the peppers, tongue, and 



100 



mushrooms (which were laid on a dish) and let boil for one minute 
more. Arrange six fried bread crotltons on a hot dish. Poach six 
very fresh eggs as for No. i, and place one egg on each croQton, 
then with a larding needle take up one mushroom from the pan, and 
lay it on the top of the egg right in the centre, then take up a piece of 
pepper, lay it on the right of the mushroom, lengthwise, and then take 
up a piece of tongue, and place it on the left of the mushrooms, and 
continue the same with the rest of the eggs. Pour the remaining 
sauce around the dish,- but not over the eggs, and immediately send 
to the table. 



lOI 



90. Eggs k la Lloyd AspinwalL 

Take out from a can six large cepes, lay them on a dish, and with 
a tube two inches in diameter, cut them perfectly round; place them 
in a sautoire on the range, with a tablespoonful of clarified butter and 
a finely chopped sound shallot; let cook for three minutes on a brisk 
fire, tossing well once in a while. Season with a tablespoonful of salt, 
a teaspoonful of pepper, adding the third of a clove of garlic finely 
chopped up; toss all well for one minute longer, and then lay the pan 
on the corner of the range. Have a deep silver dish lightly buttered; 
take up the six cepes from the pan, arrange them nicely around the 
dish, place the dish at the oven door to keep warm. 



102 



Chop up very fine the remaining trimming of the cepes, place them 
in the same pan in which the cepes were cooked, add half a teaspoon- 
ful of freshly chopped parsley, squeeze in the juice of half a medium 
sized sound lemon, and a gill of Espagnole sauce (No. 105), and let 
the whole boil for one minute; pour the sauce all around the cepes, 
but not over them. Crack a fresh egg over each cepe, being careful 
not to break the yolk, sprinkle a little salt over each egg, place them 
in the hot oven for two minutes; remove them from out the oven, and 
immediately send to the table. 



ro3 



91. Omelet Crime de Vanille it la R, A. C Smith. 

Pour into a saucepan on the hot range two gills of fresh milk, add 
to it four ounces of powdered sugar, and also one vanilla bean, let 
come to a boil, take the pan from off the range, and let cool off. Re- 
move the vanilla bean, dry it with a napkin, place it in a glass bottle 
with powdered sugar, cork it tightly, and use whenever necessary, as 
it will keep for any length of time. Add to the milk three heaped 
tablespoonfuls of rice flour — which can be had at Park & Tilford's — 
and with a wire whip thoroughly beat together, place the pan on the 
hot range, and continually stir until it boils, then place the pan on the 
corner of the range, and let cook slowly for twelve minutes; strain it 



104 



through a very fine hair sieve into a bowl, add to it a teaspoonful of 
fresh butter, mix it thoroughly, and then leave it in a warm place for 
further action. 

Make an omelet exactly as for No. 46, and just before folding 
the sides up place half of the preparation right in the centre, fold up, 
and gently turn it on a hot silver dish; place the rest of the prepara- 
tion in a pastry bag, in which you previously slide down a small 
tube at the bottom, press down, make a small rose at each end of 
the omelet, dredge a little powdered sugar over the omelet, gently 
glaze it with a red iron, decorate the sides with any kind of dry cakes 
at hand, cut in triangular shape, and send to the table. 



105 



92. Omelet ii la Clark. 

Make preparation exactly the same as for No. 91, only substitut- 
ing half a wineglass of Maraschino for the vanilla, and proceed with 
the rest precisely the same. 

■ 

93. Omelet Hughes. 

Have a preparation made the same as in No. 91, but using a 
teaspoonful of extract of orange flower, in place of the vanilla, pro- 
ceed and serve the same. 



106 



94- Omelet it la E. L, God kin. 

Cut into quarters three fine sound small limes; place them in a 
saucepan on the hot range, with one wineglassf ul of white wine (but 
not Rhine wine); let reduce to three quarters — which will take about 
six minutes. Place a clean napkin over a bowl ; pour the whole over 
the napkin; fold it up at both ends, then sharply twist the ends in 
different directions, until the juice is all squeezed into the bowl. 
Have a preparation the same as in No. 91, and use the above in- 
stead of the vanilla, proceeding with the rest exactly in the same way. 



107 



95 » Omelet ii la M. Ballon. 

Grind two heaped tablespoonfuls of fresh roasted coffee (Java and 
Mocha by preference). Pour in a saucepan on the hot range one and 
a half cups of fresh milk, adding four and a half ounces of powdered 
sugar, and as soon as the milk boils, immediately add the coffee, 
thoroughly mixing with a spoon meanwhile; tightly cover the pan and 
place it on the corner of the range to infuse for three minutes, taking 
special care not to let it boil again. Strain it through a fine napkin 
into another saucepan, and let it cool off; add then three tablespoon- 
fuls of rice flour ^ thoroughly beat it with a whip, place it on the fire, 
and continually stir until it comes to a boil; then place the pan on 
the corner of the range and let slowly cook for twelve minutes. Make 
an omelet as in No. 46, and just before folding it up, place half of 
the preparation right in the centre, fold up, turn it onto a hot silver dish; 
liberally dredge the omelet with powdered sugar, glaze the surface 
with a red iron. Slide down a small tube into a pastry-bag, 
pour the rest of the preparation in, make a fancy border around the 

omelet, and send it to the table. 

108 



96. EggS'Cocotte. 

Have six small thoroughly cleaned cocotieres ready. Chop up, 
very fine, one medium-sized, sound peeled shallot, and the half of a 
sound peeled onion; place them in a sautoire on the range with a 
tablespoonful of butter, and cook slowly for three minutes, taking care 
not to let get brown. Chop up, very fine, twenty-four canned mush- 
rooms, add them to the rest with one tablespoonful of freshly chopped 
parsley, and a teaspoonful of chopped chervil (if at hand); season 
with a tablespoonful of salt and a teaspoonful of pepper, mix all well 
together with the spatula for a second, then add a gill of Espagnole 
sauce (No. 105), and let all cook slowly for five minutes. 

Pour a tablespoonful of the sauce into each cocoti^re, then break 
a fresh t,%% into each cocoti^re, pour a teaspoonful of the sauce over 
each ^g%^ well spread. Place the cocotieres on a tin dish, and bake 
in a very hot oven for two minutes. Remove from out the oven, lay 
them on a dish with a folded napkin and send to the table. 

109 



97- Omelet ii la Mrs. JV. L. Brown. 

Place in a pan two ounces of chocolate, with just enough milk to 
dissolve it on the hot range; add a cup and a half of fresh milk; con- 
tinually stir until it comes to a boil. Dilute two tablespoonfuls of 
rice flour into two tablespoonfuls of milk, and add it to the chocolate, 
stirring briskly meanwhile; place the pan on the corner of the range, 
and let gently simmer for fifteen minutes, but do not allow it to boil. 

Have an omelet made as in No. 46, and, before folding, place 
half of the preparation right in the centre, fold up, turn it over a hot 
silver dish. Place the balance of the preparation into a pastry-bag, 



no 



with a small tube previously slided down; and by pressing the 
preparation, make a nice rosette at each end of the omelet. Dec- 
orate the dish all around with six lady-Angers, cut in triangular 
shaped pieces ; carefully press a little of the contents of the bag on 
each piece of lady-fingers, so as to have them represent pretty, small 
roses. Liberally dredge them with powdered sugar, then glaze the 
omelet with a red iron, and then send to the table. 

N. B. — All these sweet omelets should always be promptly made 
for the time of serving, otherwise it would be sufficient cause to fail 
to have them to perfection. 



Ill 



98. EggS'Cocotte it la Wm. Bracken. 

Prepare and proceed exactly the same as No. 96, only substituting 
one gill of hot Allemande sauce (No. iii) for the gill of Espagnole 
sauce (No. 105), and serve the same. 



112 



99- Fried Eggs for Garnishing. 

Pour half a gill of sweet oil into the frying-pan; when the oil is 
hot break in one tg%y carefully closing up the white part with a skim- 
mer, so as to have it firm, and in a single form. Only one at the 
time should be cooked, and two minutes will be sufficient 



113 



lOO. Egg Stuffed k la Htggins. 

Prepare in a sautoire one ounce of good butter, two tablespoonfuls 
of grated Parmesan cheese, and a tablespoonful of grated Swiss 
cheese, place the sautoire on the corner of the range, slowly stir with 
the spatula until dissolved and well mixed. Cut one ounce of smok- 
ed beef tongue into very thin julienne shaped pieces, one good sized 
sound truffle, and four mushrooms cut the same way. Add now half 
a wine glass of white wine j(but not sweet) to the cheese, mix the wine 
and cheese well together, then add the tongue, truffle, and mushrooms. 

Cut six hard shelled boiled eggs in halves lengthwise, remove the 
yolks without breaking the whites; mash the yolks and place in the 
pan with the rest of the preparation, mix the whole well together for 
three minutes while cooking. 



114 



Stuff the twelve half whites with the preparation — up to the level; 
then close them, so as to represent six original eggs. Have a silver 
dish, lightly buttered, ready, then arrange the balance of the stuffing 
right in the centre of the dish, giving a pyramid shape; place the 
eggs at the base of the pyramid* upright, so they will lightly lean 
against it. 

Cover the whole with a gill of very thick tomato sauce highly sea- 
soned, sprinkle a very little grated Parmesan cheese over all, then 
place in the oven for fifteen minutes. Remove from the oven and 
serve very hot. 



"5 



APPENDIX. 



loi. Bouillon Blanc — white broth. 

Place in a large stock-urn on a moderate fire a good heavy knuckle of a fine 
white veal with all the debris, or scraps of meat, including bones, remaining in 
the kitchen (but not of game); cover fully with cold water, adding a handful of 
salt; and as it comes to a boil, be very careful to skim all the scum off — no 
particle of scum should be left on — and then put in two large, sound, well- 
scraped carrots (whole), one whole, cleaned, sound turnip, one whole, peeled, 
large, sound onion, one well-cleaned parsley root, three thoroughly washed leeks, 
and a few leaves of cleaned' celery. Boil very slowly for six hours on the corner 
of the range; keenly skim the grease off ; then strain well through a wet cloth 
into a china bowl or a stone jar, and put it away in a cool place for general use. 

1 02. CroHtons for Soups. 

Cut some dice-shaped pieces of bread, and fry them in a pan with clarified 
butter; when a rich golden color, drain, and add to the soup when needed. 

103. Sauce Demi-Glace, or Madeira. 

Add one small glassful of mushroom liquor to one pint of good Espagnole 
sauce (No. 105); also a small glassful of Madeira wine, a bouquet (No. 106), 
and a scant teaspoonf ul of pepper. Remove the fat carefully and cook for thirty 
minntesi leaving the sauce in a rather liquid state; then strain and use when 
needed. This takes the place of all Madeira sauces. 

"7 



104. Batter for Fritters. 

Mix a quarter of a pound of sifted flour in a small basin, with half a pint of 
lukewarm water, to which three-quarters of an ounce of fresh butter has been 
added. Place in a saucepan, which should be tilted on the range so that when 
the water boils the butter can be skimmed off the top. Add, if necessary, a 
little more water to make a soft paste, beating well with a spatula, to keep it 
free from lumps, and of a proper consistence; it must be gray and compact- 
looking. Add just a little warm water to render the paste soft and diluted, al- 
though sufficiently thick to cover the objects for which it is intended ; that 
means, it must drop easily from the spoon. Add to this half a pinch of salt and 
two egg-whites; beat well together for one minute, and use at once. 

105. Sauce Espagnole — -for one gallon. 

Mix one pint of raw, strong mirepoix (No. 107) with two ounces of good 
fat (chicken's fat is preferable). Mix with the compound four ounces of flour, 
and moisten with one gallon of white broth (No. loi). Stir well, and then add, 
if handy, some baked veal and ham bones. Boil for three hours, and then re- 
move the fat very carefully; rub the sauce through a very fine sieve, and keep 
it for many purposes in cooking. 

106. A Bouquet — how to prepare. 

Take four branches of well- washed parsley-stalks—if the branches be small, 
take six — one branch of soup-celery, well washed; one blade of bay-leaf, one 
sprig of thyme, and two cloves, placed in the centre of the parsley, so as to prevent 
cloves, thyme, and bay-leaf from dropping out of the bouquet while cooking; 
fold it well, and tightly tie with a string, and use when required in various ways. 

118 



1 07. Mirepoix. 

Stew in a saucepan two ounces of fat, two carrots, one onion, one sprig of 
thyme, one bay-leaf , six whole peppers, three cloves, and, if handy, a ham 
bone cut into pieces. Add two sprigs of celery and half a bunch of parsley 
roots; cook for fifteen minutes, and use when directed in other recipes. Scraps 
of baked veal may also be added, if at hand. 

108. Bichamel Sauce. 

Place in a saucepan two ounces of butter, add two tablespoonfuls of flour, 
and stir constantly for five minutes. Moisten with a pint and a half of boiling 
milk, being careful to pour it in gradually; then beat it well with a whisk. Add 
half a teaspoonful of grated nutmeg, a pinch of salt, a bouquet (No. 106), twelve 
whole peppers, and a little mushroom liquor, if at hand. Cook well for fifteen 
minutes, and when done rub through a fine sieve. 

109. White-Roux. 

Put in a saucepan two ounces of butter, and place it on the corner of the 
hot range, add to it two tablespoonfuls of flour; keep stirring constantly for seven 
minutes. Then let it cool, and when cold, use in various sauces as directed. 

1 10. Sauce P^rigueux. 

Chop up very fine two fine trufiies; place them in a sautoire with a glassful 
of Madeira wine. Reduce on the hot stove for five minutes. Add half a pint of 
Espagnole sauce (No. 105). Just allow to come to a boil, and serve very hot. 

119 



III. Sauce Alleniande. 

Melt two ounces of butter in a saucepan on a slow fire, with three table- 
spoonfuls of flour to thicken. Stir well, not letting it brown; then moisten 
with one pint of white broth (No. loi), beating constantly, and cook for ten 
minutes. Dilute three egg-yolks separately in a bowl, pour the sauce over 
the eggs, a very little at a time; strain through a Chinese strainer, and finish 
with half an ounce of good butter and the juice of half a lemon, taking care 
that it does not boil a second time. 

112. Garnishing h la ChipolcUa^— for one gallon. 

Fry a quarter of a pound of salt pork, cut dice-shaped, for two minutes in 
a saucepan; then add half a pint of carrots cut tubular-shaped, half a pint of 
onions browned and glazed in the oven (No. 113), one pint of blanched and 
peeled chestnuts, half a pint of mushrooms, and six small sausages cut in 
pieces. Add two quarts of Espagnole sauce (No. 105), half a pint of tomato 
sauce (No. 109), a tablespoonful of salt, and a large teaspoonful of pepper. 
Cook for thirty minutes, and use when needed. 

113. Glazed Onions for Garnishing. 

Select one quart of small onions; peel the sides only, and pare the roots 
neatly, being careful not to cut them. Place them in a sautoire with half an 
ounce of clarified butter, and sprinkle them with half a pinch of powdered 
sugar. Glaze them in a slow oven for fifteen minutes; place them in a stone 
jar, and use for garnishing when required. 

120 



1 1 4. Eggs h la Rtgence. 

Shred an ounce and a half of salt pork into fine pieces (ham will answer 
the same purpose), also one onion cut into small squares, and six medium-sized 
mushrooms, all of equal size; moisten with a spoonful of good gravy, and 
cook for five minutes. 

115. Sauce VeloutL 

Melt one ounce of good butter in a saucepan, adding two tablespoonfuls of 
flour, and stir well, not letting it get brown. Moisten with a pint and a half 
of good veal and chicken stock, the stronger the better. Throw in a garnished 
bouquet (No. 106), half a cupful of mushroom liquor, if at hand, six whole pep- 
pers, half a pinch of salt, and a very little nutmeg. Boil for twenty minutes, 
stirring continuously with a wooden spatula; then remove to the side of the 
fire, skim thoroughly and let it continue simmering slowly for one hour. 
Then rub through a fine sieve. This sauce will make the foundation for 
any kind of good white stock. 

116. Lobster Butter. 

Extract the coral from one cooked lobster (the eggs may be used instead); 
pound it in a mortar to a paste, mixing it with one ounce of good butter and a 
teaspoonful of mustard. Rub through a fine sieve, and keep in a^cool place. 
The butter can also be used for coloring purposes. 

117. Purie of Chestnuts. 

Boil one pound of chestnuts for ten minutes; peel and skin them immediate- 
ly, put them in a saucepan with one quart of white broth (No. loi), a tablespoon- 
ful of salt, and two teaspoonfuls of pepper and a quarter of a pound of butter. 
Let all boil well for thirty minutes; rub through a sieve, and use when needed 

121 



1 1 8. Saiue it la Poulette. 

Put one pint of hot Allemande sauce (No. iii) into a saucepan, with one 
ounce of fresh butter; adding the juice of half a medium-sized lemon, and a 
teaspoonful of chopped parsley. Heat well on the hot stove until thoroughly 
melted and mixed, but do not let it boil. Keep the sauce warm, and serve for 
all sauce poulettes. 

119. Cream Sauce. 

Take half a pint of bechamel sauce (No. 108); add half an ounce of butter, 
and beat them together carefully, adding half a cupful of sweet cream. Then 
serve. 

120. Sauce Colbert. 

Put in a saucepan half a pint of very thick Madeira sauce (No. 103); add 
to it very gradually one ounce of good, fresh butter, also two tablespoonfuls 
of meat-glaze (No. 121). Mix well together without boiling: then squeeze in 
the juice of half a sound lemon, and add one teaspoonful of chopped parsley 
when serving. 

121. Meat Glaze. — Glace de Viande, 

As this meat glaze, when properly made, will keep in perfect condition for 
any length of time, I would advise that half a pint be made at a time, in the 
following manner: Place in a large saucepan ten quarts of white broth (No. 
loi), or nine quarts of consomm6, and reduce it on a moderate fire for fully 
four hours, at which time it should be reduced to half a pint. Transfer it in a 
stone jar or bowl; put a cover on, and keep in a cool place for general use. 

122 



There are over fifteen hundred original recipes, besides 
over a thousand menus, in "The Table," by Filippini, of 
Delmonico's. There are also special departments devoted to 
the following subjects: **Our Markets, and the Varieties of 
Food to be Found in Them in the Different Months of the 
Year;" "How to Set a Table;" "How to Serve Meals;" 
" How to Carve ; " and " Table Etiquette." 

Your bookseller will supply it to you for $2.50. If your 
bookseller does not keep it, we will send it by express, pre- 
paid, to any address on receipt of $2.50. 



BOOKS BY A. FILIPPINI 



"ONE HUNDRED RECIPES FOR COOK- 
ING AND SERVING FISH." This little book 

contains the best recipes that Mr. Filippini has used during his twenty- 
five years* experience with the celebrated house of Delmonico's. It 
includes recipes for preparing, cooking, and serving Salmon, Trout, 
Halibut, Soles, Skates, Shad, Mackerel, Eels, Bluefish, Sheepshead, 
Bass, Cod, Codfish-tongues, Smelts, Lobsters, Crabs, Oysters, Clams, 
Terrapin, Frogs, Whitebait, Sardines; in fact, all varieties of fish. 
The book is very tastefully gotten up, one recipe being printed on 
each page. The paper is supercalendered, and the book is bound in 
turned cloth, with an appropriate design in colors, with gold title. 
The price is fifty cents. 



**ONE HUNDRED WAYS OF COOKING 
EGGS/' Mr. Filippini is probably the only one who 

can cook eggs in a hundred different ways, and this book will be 
worth ten times its price to any purchaser. Unlike most of his guild, 
who jealously guard every secret of their craft, Mr. Filippini has at 
last been persuaded to admit the world into the inner sanctuary of 
his art, to describe to a hand's turn, and without reserve, exactly 
how those marvelous triumphs of his art have been achieved. Uni- 
form in every respect with " One Hundred Recipes for Fish." 
Fifty cents. 

"THE TABLE." "How to Buy Food, How to 

Cook It, and How to Serve It" 8vo, 505 pages. Bound in oil-cloth, 
$2.50; full seal Russia (Presentation Edition), $4.50. (See adver- 
tisement on next page.) 



THB TABLB: 

l^otD to Sus Soob^ $otD to €ook It, anlr Qon) to 0m)e It 

By ALBSSANDRO FILIPPINI, of Delmonico's. 
For Twenty-five yean Mr. Filippini has been with DelmoDico, and until recently was 

Manager of the branch house at 341 Broadway. 

Z34 Recipes for SOUPS ; Nearly zoo SAUCES ; loa Ways of Cooking EGGS ; 

40 SALADS; Over 300 DESSERTS, Etc., Etc 

This work is endorsed by the Delmonicos, Mr. Filippini*s experience in Cul- 
inary Art is probably greater than any living man's. The results of a lifetime 
of careful study are here embodied. 

It is infinitely greater than a mere cook-book, for while it gives many more 
recipes than any other work of the kind ever published, at the same time it con- 
tains invaluable advice as to how to buy what is best and most economical, and 
how to dress a table and serve meals. In large families the price of the work 
can be saved daily by following Mr. Filippini' s suggestions. One of the excep- 
tional features of this book is the fact that it is adapted to the humblest as well 
as to the grandest style of living. No matter where placed, it will pay for 
itself many times over. 

DDfrR«. J PresenUtion Edition, in Pull Seal Rusaia, Marbled Bdgoa, $4.50 
i'KlV.BS. ^ Kitchen Edition, in Oil-Qoth, ... - 9.50 

CHARLES L. WEBSTER & CO., Publishers, 67 Fifth Avenue, New York City. 



** I believe in temperance, not temperance that identifies itself with prohibition, 
but temperance in the words true meaning" 

THK FLOWING BOWL: 

"What and V^hen to Drink. 

By THE ONLY WILUAM. 

FuU Instructions How to Prepare, Mix, and Serve Drinks; also Recipes for 2Vj 

Mixed Drinks, 89 Liquors and Ratafias, 1 15 Punches, 58 Bowls, and 29 Extra 

Drinks; also Directions for Compounding Non-Alcoholic Beverages, 

and for the Proper Serving of Wines and Liquors. 

EVERY aENTLEMAN*8 HOUSE. 
that the reader passes from the description of one 
drink to another with much the same feeling he 
would have, had he tasted each decoction. Be- 
ginning with the Ustonr of wine, beer, alcohol, 
coffee, tea, and water, wilhaxngoes into a chap- 
ter on physiology and diet. The composition of 
drinks and thdr adulteration is next touched 
upon, and a chapter on ethnography follows.— 
New York IVarld. 

A comprehensive, a beautiful, and a remaik- 
able bode. — JVew York Sun, 



A BOOK THAT SHOULD BE IN 

The list of mixed drinks b prefaced by much 
good advice as to when and wnat to imbibe, and 
the author makes the point that the daintiest 
drmkers are also the most moderate, being in 
qmit much like the epknure who prefers a fine 
salad to all the other dishes of a great dinner.— 
AVw York Herald. 

"The Flowing Bowl" came from the presses 
with its pages breathins the essence of vineyards. 
Of musty cellars, of golden fruit, of fellowship and 
cheer. So cleverly written is the subject matter 

OCTAVO, 294 PAGES, FULLY INDEXED AND HANDSOMELY BOUND. 

Fine Cloth, Gold and Silver Stamps, ....... '$2,00 

FOR SALE BY ALL BOOKSKLLBRS. 

CHARLES L WEBSTER L CO., Publishers, 67 Fifth Avenue, New York City. 



