m-'<W':y3^/^\ f^'^' 







'AV 









«'■;■ 


^wM 


^' %r* 




.{ <^i% < 


' 1 


!* /. ^^" 






:\) ^ 


^ 



^rz 



r 



■^ 




/ Shelf No / 






y. 



A 



A 



YEAE'S GOOKEEY. 

GIVING DISHES FOE 

BREAKFAST, LUNCHEON, AND DINNER, 

FOR 

^b^rj Bag in i\jt %mv. 



PRACTICAL INSTRUCTIONS FOR THEIR PREPARATION ; AND 
A SPECIAL SECTION ON FOOD FOR INVALIDS. 

.11'' ?i:;" .;•' I : ..I-yr • . . . 



TWENTY-SECOND THOUSAND. 



CASSELL & COMPANY, Limitkd 

LONDON, PARIS d: MELBOURNE. 

lHv-2. 

[all riguts rkseuved.! 



PREFACE, 



This book is intended to supply menus for every day in the 
year, with recipes for the dishes recommended^ and practical 
instructions for their preparation. So far as I know, no work 
of the kind on this plan exists. I have specially addressed 
myself to people of moderate income, with moderate domestic 
help and ordinary kitchen utensils. I have endeavoured to 
show how waste may be avoided, and also how, by thinking 
beforehand, by making one day work in with another, and by 
choosing materials that are in season, and therefore likely to 
be reasonable in price, a family might, throughout the year, 
be provided daily with food excellent in quality, varied in its 
nature, well cooked and well served, at a reasonable cost. 

The ideal family that I have had before me has consisted 
of about half a dozen persons. I have tried, however, to cal- 
culate the quantities and to give the recipes in such a way 
that the marketing lists can be easily altered to suit varying 
circumstances. 

No particular year has been taken. The book begins 
where it does, simply because it would not be easy, on account 
of Sunday, to commence providing for a family either at the 
beginning or the end of the week. The movable feasts are 
put down at a likely time of the year, because of the special 
dishes that are connected with them. In any year, therefore, 
in order to follow the course, it will be necessary only to note 
the first Sunday in the year, and work from that. 



Iv A YEAR'S COOKEEY. 

Three meals have been prbvided for daily : Breakfast, 
Luncheon, and Dinner. Those, however, who dine in the 
middle of the day, and who require Supper, will find that very 
nearly all the luncheon dishes may be served at Supper. 

It will be seen that I have largely recommended soups in 
this voliune. I have done so because I believe their more 
frequent use amongst us would tend to promote both health 
and economy. 

In drawing up the marketing lists I have only named 
perishable articles usually bought from day to day. Such 
things as groceries of all kinds, flour, butter, cheese, eggs, 
and flavom-ings, may be bought in quantities, and are, there- 
fore, not mentioned. 

I have said that ordinary kitchen utensils would be suffi- 
cient to work out these recipes. I shall be glad if it may be 
understood that these include a wire or a hair sieve and a 
frying- basket. The former is indispensable ; purees must be 
rubbed through a sieve if they are to be worth anything ; the 
latter is desirable. Both can be bought for a trifling sum. 

Those who do not care to follow the menus in their 
entirety may find recipes for particular dishes by consulting 
the Index at the end of the work. 

In a book of this nature it is exceedingly difficult to be 
quite exact in every detail. I have had tested afresh every 
recipe here given, but I shall esteem it a favour if any of my 
readers will favour me, through my publishers, with any 
improvements their experience in working out these menus 
may suggest. 

I have added to this editiou, in the form of an appendix, 
a new chapter on Food for Invalids. 

Phyllis Browne. 



A YEAR'S Cookery. 



January 1st. 



Breakfast. 

Savoury Eggs. 

Potted Beef. 

Hot Rolls or Toast. 

Honey. 

Bread and Butter. 

Porridare. 



Luncheon. 

Baked Rabbit. 
Italian Macaroni. 
Bread and Butter. 



Dinner. 

Fried Cod, 

Stewed Steak. 

Potatoes and Brussels 

Sprouts. 
Boiled Apple Dumj)ling with 

Sweet Sauce. 
Cbeese and Celery. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— Five slices, half an inch thick, from the middle of a large Cod ; 
three pounds tender Steak ; two moderate-sized Rabbits ; one pound rashers 
of Bacon ; Potatoes, Brussels Sprouts, Celery ; half a pound of Macaroni, 
Macaroni should be bought in small quantities. Six ounces of firm Beef 
Suet. 

The flesh of the fish should be firm to the touch, and should rise immediately 
when pressed with the finger. {See INIarketing, January 3rd.) 

Rump steak is the best steak that can be chosen for this purpose, but it is 
expensive, and on this account buttock steak may be used in its place. 
Meat is likely to be tender when it yields to pressure, and when, a little taken 
between the finger and thumb can be crumbled. The steak should be cut 
evenly, and should be about an inch and a half in thickness. If there is any 
fear that it wiD not be tender, it may be brushed lightly over with vinegar 
before being used. See also recipe for Sea Pie (March 14th). 

For hints upon the choice of rabbits, see January 24th. 

The larger portion of the bacon is for the Rabbits, the remainder for the 
Kidneys. (Before choosing bacon, sec January 3rd.) 

For To-morrow,— Four Sheep's Kidneys— fine, plump, and perfectly fresh ; a 
large Neck of Mutton, as free from fat as possible (the neck should be hung 
in an airy place) ; Sardines. (.S'ee January 12th.) 



Breakfast, — Savoiciy Eggs. — Take as many small tins as there 
are eggs to be cooked — one for each person and one over is a 
usual alloAvance, Dariole moulds will be suitable for the purpose; 
but, wanting these, queen-cake tins or deep patty-pans may be used. 
Butter the tins well inside, and sprinkle in them a savoury mixture^ 
made by mincing a slice of cold boiled ham (fat and lean together), 
parsley, pepper, and salt. Two ounces of ham and a tea-spoonful of 
chopped parsley will be sufficient for three eggs. Break an egg care- 
B 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



fully into each tin, put tliem side by side into a saucepan of fast- 
boifing water, and poach them gently till the white is thoroughly set. 
Have ready, in a hot dish, small circles of toasted bread, one for each 
egg. Turn the eggs carefully upon these, and serve. If liked, a 
small piece of broiled ham can be substituted for the buttered toast. 
Potted^ Beef (January 2.3rd) ; Porridge (January 25th). 

Luncheon. — Baked Rabbit (July 8th) ; Italian Macaroni (July 7th). 

Dinner. — Fried Cod. — Sprinkle the slices of cod with pepper and 
salt, and let them lie for an hour. Dip them in milk on a plate, 
and flour them thoroughly. Fry them in plenty of hot fat (January 
17th). They will take about twenty minutes. When done enough, 
drain them on kitchen paper and place them on a hot dish, ^yiih. 
riiaitre dliotel butter under them and maitre d'hotel sauce round 
them (April 15th, May 6th). If preferred, Caper Sauce can be used 
(March 19th). Stewed Steak (January 31st) ; Boiled Apple Dumpling 
(July 19th); Sweet Sauce (July 19th) ; Potatoes (April 7th) ; Brussels 
Sprouts (June 4th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Pour the fat used for frying into a basin as soon as it is done 
witli. If left on the fire it will spoil. 

2. The outer sticks of celery ought always to be preserved, as also 
should be the rind of the bacon and the i^mains of the fish and sauce. 

3. Let the cook after every meal look carefully over the fragments 
left from the meal. The pieces of fat should be_ put on one dish, and 
afterwards melted down for frying puri)oses (Note 5, February 19th). 
The meat, bones, skin, and gristle should be put on another dish, 
to be afterwards stewed for stock. This business should be done 
every day ; it will prevent waste, and will, during the year, save the 
purchase cf many a pound of gravy-beef and lard for frying. There 
is nothing disagreeable about it, because, of course, the remnants will 
not have been touched with anything more objectionable than a 
knife and fork.* 

4. Stew the bones and inferior parts of the rabbit with the bacon- 
rind, scalded and scraped, in three pints and a half of water. Stew 
till the liquid is reduced to a little more than a quart (Stock, 
February 13th). Pour it out and leave it in a cool place. 

5. {See Remarks on Broken Bread, January 2nd.) 

* Every one will understand tliat it is not for one moment supposed that stock made 
from bones and remnants is equal to stock made from fresh meat. Nevertheless, this 
Btock is both palatable and noiirishing, and excellent soup may be made of it (su 
Prefaoe). To make stock from fresh merit (July 3C/th) ; from bones (Februai-y 13th). 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



January 2nd. 



Breakfast. 

Sarcliiies. 

Kidneys and Bacon. 

Toast. 

Marmalade. 

Bread and Biitter. 

Milk Porridge. 



i-juncheon . 



Cod Pie. 
Pancakes. 



Dinner, 

Celery Sonp. 
Irish Stew. 
Potatoes and Savoy. 
Lemon Pudding. 
Cheese and Watercress. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— Three Lemons ; one dozen large Oysters for the Cod Pie. If 
native oysters may not be afforded, Portugixese or American oysters may be 
used ; or, if these cannot be procured, tinned oysters ^vill answer for the pur- 
pose. If a little sauce were left as well as fish, the oj-sters can be dispensed 
with altogether. If scallop-shells are not in the house, half-a-dozen of the 
deep shells of the oysters sliould be scoured and taken Ciire of ; they will do 
for scalloped fish. Vegetables— Potatoes, Savoy, and Watercress. 

For To-morrow.— Bloaters (one will probably be enough for each person) ; one 
tin Collared Tongue ; four pounds of the Fillet of the Rump of Beef. {See 
Marketing, January lOth.) Tongues are now to be procured in tins already 
cooked; they need only to be turned out, to have a napkin or frill pinned round 
them, and to be garnished with parsley. They are very good, and it is 
cheaper in the first instance to buy them in this way than to prepare them 
at home, although the bought tongues are so mellow that they do not " go " 
very far. (.%e aZso February 4th.) 

The fillet of the rump of beef is a very tender piece of meat. It generally is sold 
at a price very little below that asked for rump steak, but there is no "bone or 
skin belonging to it, so that it cannot be called an expensive joint. If there is 
any difficulty about getting this weight of the fillet (and there very likely will 
be), the butcher njay be told to cut through and give a portion of the rump 
also. There will then be a small piece of skirting, a little fat, and a; very little 
bone, and the meat ought to be charged 2d. or 3d. less per pound. As soon as 
it is sent home, it should be brushed ail over v.ith a table-spoonful of vinegar, 
have a little pepper and salt sprinkled lightly over it, and be hung in a cool, 
airy place. Of course the hook must not be stuck into the fleshy part of the 
meat, but into a portion of the skin. 



Breakfast. — Kidneys and Bacon. — Trim away tlie fat ; skin and 
cut each kidney into slices the round way. Mix on a plate a table- 
spoonful of floui-, a salt-spoonful of salt, and half a salt-spoonful of 
pepper. Dip each slice into the mixture. Melt a little bacon fat or 
butter in the frying-pan. When it is melted, put in the rashers of 
bacon procured for the purpose yesterday. They must be cut very 
thinly into small pieces convenient for serving. Fry them very gently 
over a slow fire, and turn them repeatedly. When done enough, 
ptit them on the dish on which they are to be served, and fry 
the slices of kidney in the same fat. In one minute turn them • 
in about four minutes they will be done enough, and may be put 
on the dish with the bacon. They ought to be slightly under- 
done. _ Pour away the superabundant fat, sprinkle a tea-spoonful of 
flour into the remainder, and mix it thoroughly, beating it smooth 
with the back of a wooden spoon. Add gradually as much water as 
will make a tolerablv thick sauce. Stir this over the fire till it boils, 



A rEAKS COOKERY. 



then strain it over the kidneys. A dessert-spoonful of mushroom 
ketclinp may be added to the gravy, and, if liked, a table-spoonful of 
claret may be thrown in. Kidneys cooked in this way will go half as 
far again as broiled kidneys. Milk Porridge (June 13th) ; Sardines 
{see Marketing, January 12th). 

Every day, after brealdast, the mistress of a house should go on a 
tour of inspection through the kitchens and pantries. She can then 
see what was left from yesterday, and can easily arrange what is to 
be done for the day. One great means of avoiding waste is to use 
what is on hand before purchasing fresh materials. It is most pro- 
bable that to-day there will be found in the pantiythe remains of the 
cold cod ; the stock produced by stewing the rabbit-bones and bacon- 
rind ; the outer sticks of celery ; and the neck of mutton. This being 
the case, she will do well to order Cod Pie to be made of the remnants 
of cod. Celery Soup of the .stock and celery, and Irish Stew of the best 
end of the neck of mutton. The scrag end should be boiled separately, 
and used as hereafter directed. The batter for the pancakes should 
be made early in the day, because it is so much better for standing a 
few hours. Broken pieces of bread should be collected every day, 
for they constitute a fruitful source of waste in many households, 
although in others they are scarcely to be seen. They may be used 
to make bread-crumbs forfrying fish, and for this purpose they should 
be put into a cool oven, dried thoroughly, and lightly crisped, then 
crushed with a rolHng-pin and passed through a fine wire-sieve. 
They should then be put into a perfectly dry bottle, and stored for 
use. It is often very inconvenient to be obliged to prepare bread- 
crumbs each time they are wanted ; and if the cook will make them 
beforehand, when she has time, she will find it a great help. Stale 
bread may be used in many other ways {see Index). 

Luncheon. — Cod Pie. — Take the flesh from the bones of cod, and 
be careful that no bones or little bits of skin are left in it. Beard the 
oysters, and stew the skin and the bones of the fish and the beards in 
a little water. When the goodness is drawn from them, boil the 
liquid quickly till it is very much reduced. Strain it, add to it the 
oyster liquor and an equal quantity of milk, and thicken it by adding 
to it a little flour mixed with a small quantity of water. Stir into 
this sauce a few drops of essence of anchovy, put the oysters into a 
strainer, and hold them in the sauce for three seconds. Butter a pie- 
dish, lay the pieces of fish in it, pour the sauce over, and add the 
oysters. Spread over the top a covering of mashed potatoes which 
have either been left from yesterday or have been boiled for the pur- 
pose. Make the top of the potato rough with a fork, bake it in a 
moderate oven, and send it to table lightly browned. If any fish 
sauce were left, it can be poured over the fish instead of the oysters. 
When tinned oysters are used, the liquor can be mixed vdth the 
sauce, but the oysters need not be boiled in it. This pie must not be 
moist when sent to table. For Pancakes, see February 24th. 

Dinner. — Celery Soup (December 3rd); Irish Stew (March 10th) j 



A TEARS COOKERY. 



Potatoes (May 12th) ; Savoy (June 4tli) ; Lemon Pudding (August 
12tli) ; Cheese (June 8th). 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. The bacon and kidney must be fried sloivly. If cooked quickly 
they mil be hard and indigestible. 

2. The bloaters must be put far away from all other food, as any- 
thing that they come in contact with wdU taste of them. 

3. Sugar browning is wanted in the house. It may be made 
to-day. Put a quarter of a pound of brown sugar into an old but 
clean saucepan, and stir it over the fire till it melts and becomes 
slightly coloured. Draw it back and let it bake slowly, stirring it 
every now and then till it is nearly black, without being at all burnt. 
Pour upon it a pint of water, let it boil for five or six minutes, strain 
it through muslin into a glass bottle, cork it up, and keep it for use. 
This browning is so useful that a store should always be kept on 
hand. An easier way of making browning is to pour a quart of 
boiling water upon a quarter of a pound of chicory. Let it stand. In 
haK an hour the liquid will be ready to be poured off and bottled 
for use This browning, however, does not keep welL 

4. It is a good plan for the cook to make a point every Friday of 
making pastry (April 17th), fruit pies, plain cakes, rolls, buns, Vienna 
bread, scones, &c., that will be required for three or four days. It is 
a great help to have little things of this kind in the house ; and if 
the work is so arranged that the business is done regularly there will 
be no difiiculty about it. To-day a cranberry tart (August 7th), 
Vienna bread (August 26th), Mutton Pies (January 3rd), and a Plain 
Cake (June 26th) can be made. 



January 3rd, 



Breakfast. 

Bloaters. 
Collared Tongue. 
Vienna Bread. 
Marmalade. 
Bread and Butter. 
Bread and Milk. 



Luncheon. 



Mutton Pies. 
Rice Pudding. 



Dinner. 

Milk Soup. 

Fillet of Beef. 

Vegetables — BakedPotatoc; 

and Maslied Parsnips. 
Boiled Batter Pudding. 
Cheese and Celery. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— Potatoes, Parsnips, Celery. 

Fox' To-morrow.— Half a pound of Streaky Bacon cut into thin rashers; 
one bottle of Gorgona Anchovies ; one large dried Haddock ; one pair of 
moderate-sized but thick Soles ; the best end of a Loin of Mutton, as free 
from fat as may be ; a quarter of a pound of Kidney Suet ; a quarter 
of a poimd of German Sausage (March 28th); Celery; Apples; one stick 
of Horse-radish ; Jerusalem Artichokes ; Potatoes; two J Jatavian Endive; one 



A YEARS COOKERY. 



Beet-root ; one-pennyworth of Parsley. Parsley is wanted so continually in 
cookery and for garnishing dishes, that when it cannot be grown (and thia 
can be done easily with ever such a small piece of ground) a point should be 
made of buying a pennyworth twice a week, say on Wednesdays and Satur- 
days. If the stalks are put m water, the parsley will keep fresh for two or 
three days. Some people dry parsley, and this is wise, but for garnishing dishes 
it is better to be fresh, and it can be obtained in most places without much 
difliculty all the year round. "When bacon is to be used, the quantity reqvdred 
is given in the marketing colunm for the day. It is not, however, recom- 
mended that bacon should be bought a few ounces at a time. It is a good 
plan to keep it in the house, so that when a little is wanted it can be cut off 
as required. Bacon should have line skin, and should possess an agreeable 
odoiir. The lean should be of a bright red colour, and intermixed with fibres 
of fat ; whilst raw, it should adhere strongly to the bone. The fat should be 
firm and white, with a sUghtly reddish tinge. 

In deciding upon the kind of fish to be procured, the state of the market should 
always be considered. The supply of fish is so imcertaiu. and its price so 
variable, that the housekeeper will find it to be the wisest plan to pay a visit 
to the fishmonger and see what lies upon his slab before deciding upon the 
kind of fish to be bought. In drawing up these menus, fish has been fixed 
upon that is m full season, and therefore likely to be in good condition and 
reasonable in price at the date given. If, however, it is found that, owing to 
imforeseen cu-cumstances, the particular variety named is scarce on a certain 
day, it will be better and more economical to clioose a kind that is plenti- 
ful, and leave the other for another time. The whereabouts of the recipes for 
cooking diffei-ent varieties of fish may be discovered by looking in the Index. 
It should be remembered that whiting, mackerel, and fresh herrings umist 
be cooked when fresh, as they very quickly decompose. Nearly all fish is best 
when fresh ; but there are some kinds, and soles are amongst them, which in 
cold weather can be kept until the second day Avithout much harm being 
done ; and, therefore, when soles can be obtained quite fresh on the Saturday 
(as in towns they usually can be), they may be kept for Sunday. Soles should 
be firm as well as thick. It is one sign of freshness v. hen the skin is diflicult 
to draw oft". Fish is fresh when it feels firm and stitt; when the gills are 
bright red and the eyes bright. If the eyes are dull and the fiesh flabby the 
fish is good for nothing. 

A loin of niul ton, like a saddle of mutton, is generallv cousidei'ed an expensive 
dish, and so it is if very fat. The butchej' should be asked to supply weU- 
hung mutton, to bone the joint, to trim away as much fat as he can, and to 
detach the fillet from the under-side. If when it is brought home there is still 
more fat on it than is likely to be eat^en, let it be cut away and rendered for 
frying purposes. Suet should be fixm, hard, and close. Beef kidney suet is 
the best. 

Breakfast. — Bloaters. — Cut off tlie lieads of the fish, split them 
open, and grill them upon a gridiron. It is usual to broil bloaters whole ; 
and if perfect cleanliness could be secured that would be the best way. 
It is not every cook, however, who ])Ossesscs the knack of cleansing 
the fish whole, and therefore it is safest to have them opened. _ Rub 
the gridiron with a piece of mutton fat, place the bloaters on it, and 
broil them over a gentle fire for four or, at most, five minutes. Place 
them on a hot dish, skin downwards, rub them over with a lump of 
butter, or, better still, a little maitre dlioid butter (April 15th), and 
they are ready to serve. If more convenient, they can be baked 
instead of being broiled. Collared Tongue (Marketing, January 2nd) ; 
Vienna Bread (August 26th) \ Bread and Milk (January 25th). 

Luncheon. — Mutton Pies. — Pick the meat carefully from the 
Bcrag end of the neck of mutton that was boiled separately when the 
Irish stew was made. Free it from skin and fat, mince it not too 
finely, and put it in a basin. Supposing there is half a pound of 



A TEA It's COOKERY. 



meat, add two table-spooufuls of strong gravy {made by boiliug the 
bones and rapidly reducing the liquor), a little pepper and salt, a few 
drops of essence of anchovy, and a dessert-spoonful of chopped 
parsley. Mix thoroughly together. Line some tartlet or patty- 
pans with good short crust (June 10th), fill them with tlie prepared 
mince, cover them with paste, ornament them in the iLSual way, egg 
them over, and bake in a quick oven. They will take from twenty 
minutes to half an hour. Serve very hot, neatly arranged on a dish 
covered witli a napkin. If liked, the mutton can be flavoured with a 
little piece of shallot and two or three mushrooms chopped small, and 
this will make an agreeable variety. If pastry is made on Friday, 
these pies could be made at the same time. Kice Pudding (February 
24th). 

Dinner. — Milk Soup. — Put a quart of water on the fire. Peel 
and throw into cold water two large potatoes, or three small ones, 
and one leek ; the white part only of the leek should be taken. If a 
leek cannot be procured, a small onion may be iLsed instead, but the 
flavour will not be so delicate. When the water boils, throw in the 
vegetables, add an ounce of butter and a little pepper and salt. ]3oil 
for an hour. Pass the soup through a colander, and press the vegetables 
through with the back of a wooden spoon. Keturn pulp and sou}> to 
the saucepan, add three-quarters of a pint of milk, and stir till it 
boils. Sprinkle in gradually a heax^ed table-spoonful of crushed 
tapioca, and boll for about a quarter of an hour ; keep stirring all the 
time, or the tapioca may get into lumps. This crushed tapioca may 
be bought in packets specially prepared for purposes of this kind, or, 
if preferred, tapioca sif tings can be bought by the pound of the corn- 
chandler. Serve the soup as hot as possible. Fillet of Beef (Febi-uary 
11th) ; Boiled Batter Pudding (May 18th) ; Baked Potatoes (May 4th) ; 
Mashed Parsnips. [Proceed as for Mashed Turnips (September 30th), 
but scrape the Parsnips instead of paring them]. Cheese (June 8th). 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Make a hole in the centre of each little mutton pie, to keep it 
from bursting whilst it is being baked, 

2. Wlien carving the collared tongue, cut a tolerably thick slice 
straight from the top ; lay this aside, and put it in its place again 
before putting the tongue away. This will help to keej> the meat 
from getting dry The slice of tongue can be used afterwards in 
another way. 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



Sunday, January 4th. 

On Sunday it is very usual for families who dine late on other days to have nn 
early dinner, tea, and siqjj^er. This arrangement is therefore follotved here. 



Breakfast. 


Dinner. 


Tea. 


Supper. 


Dried Haddock. 


Filleted Soles. 


Hot Buttered Toast. 


Cold Mvitton. 


Toasted Bacon. 


Rolled Loin of 


Dry Toast. 


Pickles. 


Honey. 


Mutton. 


Bread and Butter. 


Endive Salad. 


Vienna Bread. 


Maslied Potatoes. 


Jam. 


Baked Apples. 


Dried Toast. 


Jerusalem Arti- 


Plain Cake. 


Cheese. 


Bread and Butter. 


chokes. 






Corn Flour Mdk. 


Chocolate Pudding. 
Cheese. 







Breakfast. — The beverage served at breakfast must be deter- 
mined by the taste of the members of the family. Tea and coffee 
are the most popular, although cocoa and chocolate are now very 
extensively taken also. Almost every housekeeper believes that she 
understands thoroughly how to make these simple beverages, and, 
doubtless, the majority are right in this belief; nevertheless, a few 
simple rules on the best way of making each may be useful. 

Tea. — A very important item in the preparation of tea is the tea- 
pot. It is very commonly said that an earthenware tea-pot is to be 
preferred to a metal one; but let any housekeeper try the two and 
compare the infusions, and she will not long retain this opinion. The 
only reason why an earthenware tea-pot is to be recommended is that 
it is easily kept clean ; and if a little pains is taken to keep the 
metal tea-pot clean, very much better tea can be made out of the 
latter than out of the former, with an equal quantity of the dried leaf. 
A tea-pot should be rinsed out with clean boiling water, and after- 
wards dried thoroughly each time it is used, and the inside should be 
as bright as the outside. Two or three minutes before the tea is 
made a little boiling water should be poured into the pot to heat the 
metal, then drained off before the tea is put in. By this means less 
heat will be abstracted from the infusion. As to the quantity of tea 
to be used, perhaps no better rule can be given than the old-fashioned 
one of allowing " a spoonful of tea for each person and one for the 
pot." Another good old rule, known to every one, is that the water 
must be boiling — " Unless the kettle boiling be, filling the tea-pot 
spoils the tea." It is not so generally known, however, that this 
water should be freshly boiled. If the kettle has been steaming away 
for ever so long, the water in it is not fit for making tea ; and in 
order to extract the full aroma from the leaf the water should not 
have boiled more than one minute. Good tea cannot be made with 
hard water. When soft water cannot be obtained, a very tiny pinch 
of soda may be dropped into the tea-pot after the water is poured on 
the leaves. Soda should, however, be most sparingly used ; if too 
much is put into the tea-pot the tea will be entirely spoilt. Boiling 
water should be poured very gently upon the dried leaves, and in 



A YEARS COOKERY. 



quantity sufficient to half fill the tea-pot. The lid should at once be 
shut down, and a " cosy " put over the vessel, and after this the tea 
is left to " draw." The length of time given to this process must 
vary with the quality of the tea. Tea of superior quality may stand 
for ten minutes before the tea-pot is filled up ; for the coarser kinds 
of tea five minutes will be enough ; and if a longer time is given it is 
likely that the infusion will be bitter rather than fragrant. Fine tea 
can very rarely be purchased at a cheap rate ; and it is so frequently 
adulterated that it is only safe to buy the article of a respectable 
dealer. Black tea is generally supposed to be purer than green tea, 
although a mixture of the two is frequently preferred. AV^hen the 
quantity of tea provided is not sufficient, and it is necessary to make 
fresh tea, the old leaves should be turned quite out, the tea-pot rinsed 
with boiling water, and the whole process commenced anew. Unless 
this is done, the bitterness of the old leaves will overpower the 
flavour of the new ones. So long as additional water is to be added, 
the tea-pot should never be quite drained before being re-fiUed. 
Dried Haddock (January 27th) ; Toasted Bacon (January 19th) ; also 
Fried Bacon (January 2nd) ; Vienna Bread (August 26th) ; Corn 
Flour Milk (June 19th). 

Dinner. — Filleted Soles — Saiotes. — It is most economical to fillet 
the soles at home, as nourishing fish stock for sauce can be made of 
the skin and bones. Prepare the fish an hour or two before it is to 
be dressed. Wash the sole and lay it on a board. Cut off with a 
sharp knife the head, tail, and outer fins, and draw off the skin from 
the tail to the head, first cutting through a little piece of the skin 
nea,r the tail, so as to get hold of it. Make a deep incision all down 
thf; spinal bone, then dexterously slip the knife between the flesh and 
tke bone, and remove the flesh entire, and as free from jags as pos- 
S'ible. Do this to both sides of the fish alike, thus obtaining four long 
/lillets from each sole. ^ Trim the fillets neatly, and divide each one 
across the centre. Sprinkle pepper and salt lightly on them, flour 
them well, and wrap them in a cloth, and leave them in the kitchen 
for an hour or more. This is to dry them thoroughly before cooking 
them. Unless it is done the Qgg and bread-crumbs will not adhere 
to the fish. Beat the yolk and a little of the white of an egg in a 
plate, and put a large breakfast-cupful of properly- prepared bread- 
crumbs (January 2nd and February 1st) in some paper. Pass the 
fish through the egg on both sides, and throw the crumbs well over 
it. Melt a slice of butter in the frying-pan, put in the fillets, and 
cook them gently till they are brown on one side, then turn them, 
and brown them upon the other. Put them between sheets of kitchen 
paper to free them from grease, and dish them like cutlets, with 
one fillet overlapping another. Pour over them a little mciitre (Thotel 
(May 6th) or shrimp sauce (January 30th), or, if it may be afforded, 
some_ Dutch sauce (May 14tli). All kinds of flat fish can be cooked 
in this way. If preferred, the Qgg and bread-crumbs can be omitted, 
and the fillets floured and dried by being v/rapped in a cloth for an 



10 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



hour or two before being cooked. Kolled Mutton (Ai)ril 22nd); 
Mashed Potatoes (May 12tli) ; Jerusalem Artichokes (November 
30th) ; Chocolate Pudding (July 24th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 

Tea.— Plain Cake (June 26th). 

Supper.— Endive Salad (March 13th) ; Baked Apples (Februaiy 
9tli). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Take care of the bacon fat. 

2. Stew the skin and bones of the fish, and make the fish sauce 
with the stock. 

3. Before sending the cold mutton up to supper put it on a clean 
dish and garnish it with parsley. Carefully preserve any gravy that 
may have run from it. 



Breakfast. 

Collai-ed Tongue. 

Boiled Eggs. 

(If any filleted Sole were 
left, it could be prepared 
according to tlie recipe 
(Jan. 2nd), and served in- 
stead of the boiled eggs.) 

Brown and White Bread and 
Butter. 

Marmalade. 

Milk Toast. 



January 5th. 



Luncheon. 

Hambro' Salad. 
Ro3-al Sandwiches. 
Cranberry Tart. 



Dinner. 

Crecy Soup. 

Beef, with Sharp Sauce ; or, 

if the Beef is used, Steak, 

with Onions. 
Potatoes and Winter 

Greens. 
Brown Bread Pudding. 
Cheese and Ptusks. 



Marketing. 

Monday is not a good day for marketing. Customers who make large pm^chases 
on this day (ujiless Uiey buy what is wanted of large flrst-class dealers) stand 
in danger of having the surplus stock left from Saturday presented to their 
notice. "Where there is a family to provide for, it will, of course, be necessary 
to make some purchases, but the housekeeper will do well to defer buying 
anything that is very important until Tuesday. A Melton Mowbray Pork 
Pie should be bought for breakfast to-morrow, and a small salad for to-day. 



Breakfast, — The collared tongue left on Saturday may be served 
again to-day, and Boiled Eggs can be added as an accompaniment. 
As in the case of savoury eggs, one Qg,'^ should be allowed for each 
person, and one over. One would think that it was the easiest 
thing in the world to boil eggs properly, yet there are not many 
cooks who are certain to send them up ahvays right. Perhaps the 
reason of this is that the quality of the egg is not considered in 
calculating the time required for boiling, but the orthodox three 
minutes is allotted to all eggs, new-laid and stale alike. New-laid 
eggs need four minutes to " set ;" eggs that have been kept for some 
days will need only three minutes. Eggs should be put into boiling 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 11 



water, and sliould be quite covered ; unless this is done tliey will 
not be equally cooked. They should be gently boiled. Eggs with 
very thin shells are less likely to burst if they are put into cold 
water and brought gently to the boiling point. They will be lightly 
set when the water boils. If wanted well done, they should be left 
in the hot water off the fire for a minute. An Qgg that has been laid 
twelve hours will generally be preferred to one that is perfectly fresh 
—warm from the nest. Milk Toast (June 17th). 

Luncheon. — lioijal Sanchvickes. — Put three eggs into boiling 
water, and boil them gently for ten minutes. Take them up, and 
put them into a basin of cold water for five minutes. Take six 
anchovies, wash them, wipe them in a cloth, cut off the heads and 
fins, and so pe away the skin. With the fingers and thumb split 
them open down the back, and take the fillets or sides from the back- 
bone. Clean and dry perfectly the small salad. Cut six thin slices 
of stale brown bread, free from crust. Butter these well, and lay 
between each two one of the eggs, shelled and cut into thin slices, a 
layer of small salad cut up small, and the fillets of two anchovies. 
Press the slices together, with a sharp knife divide them into small 
squares, and arrange them neatly on a dish covered Avith a napkin. 
Hambro' Salad (August 8th) ; Cranberry Tart (August 7th). 

Dinner. — Crecy aS'o?*/?.— Scrape and cut up in slices eight good- 
sized carrots. Put these in a stew-pan with a slice of butter or 
dripping, the pieces of bacon-rind ]eft from Sunday, two onions, six 
or eight peppercorns, and four or five outer sticks of celery left from 
Saturday. Shake the vegetables over the fire for three or four 
minutes, then put a good-sized crust of stale bread with them, and 
pour upon them a pint of the stock made from the mutton bones, 
and let them simmer gently until quite soft. Drain tliem, bruise 
them in a mortar, and rub them through a hair-sieve with the back 
of a wooden spoon, moistening them frequently with the liquor in 
which they were stewed. Put pulp, liquor and all, into a stew- 
pan, add an additional quart of stock, and stir the soup over the 
fire till it boils. Draw it to the side of the fire, and let it simmer 
gently to throw up the grease, and skim this away carefully as it 
rises. Add a pinch of sugar, pepper and salt to taste, and a dessert- 
spoonful of the rich gra\y which lies under the cake of fat poured 
froni the roast beef. Serve very hot, and send bread, toasted and 
cut into dice, to table on a separate dish. This soup ought to be 
as thick as cream, and of a deep red colour. Beef with Acid Sauce 
can be made of the remains of the cold beef, cut into neat slices 
the third of an inch thick, free from fat and gristle. If there is not 
sufiicient cold beef left for this, three pounds of steak must be 
bought for dinner, and may be ctewed with onions according to the 
recipe given. Those who do not like the flavour of onions should 
avoid this dish, and then tlie fresh beef can be stewed in the usual 
way (January 31st). Whether there are plenty of slices of cold beef 
or not, there is sure to be plenty of meat upon the bone, and every 



12 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



bit of this should be cut off. The fat portions should be put aside 
to be rendered, and the skin and gristle stewed with the bone. The 
lean portions of broken beef can be made into rissoles for luncheon 
to-morrow. They should be kept covered until they are to be made, 
to prevent their getting dry. The remains of collared tongue can be 
put with them. Beef with Sharp Sauce (December 4th) ; Beef stewed 
with Onions (November 3rd) ; Potatoes (May 12th) ; Winter Greens 
(June 4th) ; Brown Bread Pudding (July 20th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 

Things that must not toe Forgotten. 

1. Purees like the one mentioned above must be rubbed through a 
sieve. The process calls both for time and patience, but the result 
amply repays both. 

2. Before putting the bacon-rin.d into the stew-pan, scald it in 
boiling water, and scrape the rough part with a sharp knife. 

3. Break the beef bone into small pieces, and stew these for stock 
according to the recipe given (February 13th). This stock can be 
used to make parsnip soup for January 8th. 

4. Keep the anchovies closely corked down and covered with 
liquor. 

y 

January 6th. 

Luncheon. 

Rissoles. 
Fried Potatoes. 
Compote of Apples. 
(Any remains of tlie Brown 

Bread Pudding can be 

used instead of the 

Apples. See Remains of 

Pudding Toasted, March 

6th.) 



Breakfast. 

Eggs in Brown Butter. 
Melton Mowbray Pork Pie. 
Hot and Dry Toast. 
Brown and White Bread and 

Butter. 
Porridge. 



Dinner. 

Cod's Head and Shoulders. 
Roast Loin of Pork, with 

Savoury Pudding. 
Mashed Potatoes, Savoy. 
Semolina Pudding. 
Cheese 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— About six pounds of Cod. Choose a fish that is tliick about the 
neck, plump and round near the tail, with the hollow behind the head deep, 
the eyes bright and full, and the flesh firm and white. Be careful that a 
portion of the liver and of the roe is sent with the fish. Apples, Potatoes, 
Savoy. 

A Loin of Pork. There is no meat that requires to be chosen so carefully as pork ; 
for if the animal from which it is taken were diseased or badly fed, the 
flesh will be most unwholesome, and is almost certain to produce illness. The 
safest plan is to buy the meat of the feeder, or, when this cannot be, it should 
be purchased of a thoroughly respectable dealer. Good pork is firm and finely 
grained, with the lean of a clear pinkish white, deUcately veined with fat 
and cool to the touch, and the fat fine and white. The skin should be thin 
and elastic to the touch. Pork should be quite fresh ; it will not keep unless 
salted. It is economical to buy a whole fore loin ; roast the best end, and use 
the chump end for sausages. 

For To-morrow.— Order to be sent in the morning two plump young Ostend 
Rabbits, trussed; half a pound of strips of Bacon {see Marketing, January 
Soles— "slips" (see Januaiy 3rd); Muffins (January 



3rd); six or eight small Soles— " slips" (see Januaiy 
; Hominy (Marke'ing, February 10th). 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



13 



Breakfast. — Eggs in Brown Butter. — Allow one egg for each 
person, and one over. Take either an earthenware dish that will 
stand the fire or a tin dish. The earthenware dish is to be preferred, 
because the eggs may be sent to table npon it. Put in this a little 
bacon fat (preserved from Sunday) : an ounce will be enough for four 
eggs. If the bacon fat has been used, butter must be taken instead. 
Let this not only melt in the oven, but become a rich brown ^^•ithout 
being at all burnt. Break the eggs into it carefully, so as not to 
break the yolks, and let them cook slowly till they are set. Sprinkle 
a little pepper over them, pour upon them a table-spoonful of hot 
vinegar, ancl serve. If butter is used instead of bacon fat, salt and 
pepper must be sprinkled over the eggs. The pork pie should be 
served on a dish, covered with a napkin. Porridge (January 25th). 




Luncheon. — Bissoles. — Take the pieces of beef and the remains 
of the collared tongue, and mince all well together, leaving out the 
skin and gristle. Add a pinch of finely-minced shallot, or, wanting 
this, of onion boiled till tender, a little pepper and salt, and a few 
drops of the essence of anchovy. INIelt an ounce of butter in a small 
saucepan, stir in a heaped talile-spoonful of flour, and beat the 
mixture with the back of a wooden spoon. Add one gill of stock, 
milk, or water, and mix thoroughly. Stir in the minced meat, turn 
the preparation upon a dish, and leave it till cold. IMake a small 
quantity of good pastry, roll it out to the thickness of the eighth of 
an inch, and divide it into two parts. Put little balls of the minced 
meat upon one-half, leaving about two inches distance between each. 
]Vf oisten the paste round each ball with water, and cover the whole 
with the unused piece of pastry. Press the edges of pastry closely 



14 A YEARS COOKERY. 



together round each ball of meat. Stamp them out in rounds with a 
cutter, place them on a floured dish ; place them side by side in a frying- 
basket, and fry them in plenty of hot fat, as fish is fried (January 17th). 
If a frying-basket is not at hand, it may be dispensed with. The 
appearance of the rissoles will be improved if they are brushed over 
with beaten egg and dipped into crushed vermicelli before being fried. 
If preferred, the pastry can be omitted altogether, and the minced 
meat can be made into balls about the size of large walnuts, and 
dipped in egg and bread-crumbs before being fried, thus making 
croquettes instead of rissoles. Serve either croquettes or rissoles hot 
ou a dish covered with a napkin, and garnish with fried parsley 
(January 13th). If liked, a little good brown gravy can be sent to 
table in a tureen. Fried Potatoes (February 2nd) ; Compote of 
Apples (August 5th and Note 3, September 12th). 

Dinner.— Cod's Head and Shoulders (December 6tli) ; Roast Pork 
(March 4tli) ; Savoury Pudding (September 29th) ; IMashed Potatoes 
(May 12th) ; Savoy (June 4th) ; Semolina Pudding (March 12th) ; 
Cheese (June Sth). 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Drain the rissoles and the fried potatoes on kitchen paper as 
soon as they are taken out of the fat, in order to free them from 
grease. 

2. Preserve the stock in which the cod is lioiled. 

3. Cut the meat off the chump end of the loin of pork, and make 
it into sausages (March 18tli). Stew the bones of the pork for stock, 
and keep this stock in a separate vessel. 

4. Thickening, or Roux, is wanted in the house, and may be made 
to-day. Take equal quantities of flour and good butter ; it is no 
economy to use common butter, because common butter is generally 
adulterated, and a good deal of it -will be lost in clarification. Spread 
the flour on a pa]^>er, and put it before the fire to dry ; then pass it 
through a fine wire-sieve, so as to have it free from lumps. Clarify 
the butter ; that is, melt it, and when it has stood to settle for a 
while, skim the surface, and pour away the pure oily portion, leaving 
untouched the thick curd-like substance that will have settled at the 
bottom. This pure oil is the only part that should be used for the 
roux. Put the oiled butter into an enamelled saucepan, and mix the 
flour with it gi^adually, stirring it briskly to make it quite smooth. 
Keep stirring it over the fire till it is well cooked, but not at all 
coloured, then pour half of it into a clean earthenware jar. This will 
be white thickening, and may be used for white sauces. Keep stirring 
the remainder over the fire till it is brightly coloured ; then draw it 
back, and let it stand till it ceases to bubble, when it may be at once 
poured into another jar. This thickening will take a long time to 
make — perhaps a couple of hours ; but when once made it will keep 
for months. Sauce that is thickened with it should always be allowed 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



15 



to simmer gently for twenty minutes or half an hour to " throw up 

tlie grease," as it is called, which grease must be carefully removed as 
it rises. The roux may be mixed with either hot or cold liquor. If 
cold, it should be stirred till it boils; if hot, the roux should be 
moistened with a little of the liquor oli' the fire, then poured into the 
remainder, and stirred till it boils. The sauce or soup thickened 
with it will only acquire its proper consistency after it has been 
stirred and boiled. No ^ood cook should be without this roux in the 
house ; and therefore it is understood that when the quantity made 
is finished, it shall be renewed without further reminder. If unfor- 
tunately it should happen that it is all used, and a little is wanted 
for immediate use, melt half an ounce of butter over the fire, and mix 
smoothly with it (with a wooden spoon) a table-spoonful of flour. 
Stir it quickly over a gentle fire for three minutes, moisten it 
gradually with the liquid to be thickened, and boil it, stirring it all 
the time. This quantity will be sufficient for a pint of stock. Gravy 
thickened with raw flour is liable to have a puddingy taste. 
5. Soak some hominy in cold water (February 10th). 



January 7th, 



Breakfast. 



Baked Soles. 

Sausai,'-es witli Fried Bread. 

Hot Buttered Toast. 

Dry Toast. 

Muffins. 

Marmalade. 

Boiled Hominy. 



Luncheon. 

Remains of Cod, Scalloi^ed. 
Toad in tlie Hole. 



Dinner. 



Oyster Soup, made of the 

Fish Stock. 
Boiled Rabbits with Onion 

Sauce. 
Fried Bacon. 
Potatoes and Brussels 

Sprouts. 
Vermicelli Pudding. 
Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— One dozen larj^e Oysters, or if this will not be afforded, one tin of 
Oysters; one-pennywortli of Parsley, (.See January 3rd.) Potatoes, Brussels 
Sprouts. 

For To-morrov/.— One tin Bovill's Potted Grouse. This potted grouse is most 
delicious in flavour; it will, however, have a better appearance if it is taken 
out of the small tin in which it is sold, and is pressed into two or more of the 
small jars usually used for preparations of this kind, then covered with clarified 
butter. If this is done it will serve for two or tliree breakfasts, and will look 
and taste well to the last. If it is pressed into one jar it should be turned into 
a fresh one after it has once been used, and should be sent to table wuth the 
jar covered with a paper frill, and the meat garnished with parsley. Half a 
Pig's Head, and two Pig's Feet for brawn. (^S'ee Marketing, January 6th.) Tlie 
pork-butcher shoidd be asked to cut aw^ay the cheek, that it may be pickled 
separately, leaving the rest of the head for brawn. Rolls (Septeuiber itli). 



Breakfast. — Baked Soles. — Scrape the soles, but do not skin 
them, roll them in a soft cloth for awhile to dry them thoroughly, 
and brush them over on the white side with dissolved butter. 



16 A YEAR'S COOKERY. 

Cover them with prepared bread-crumbs, lay them white side upper- 
most in a baking-tin in which a little butter has been dissolved, and 
bake them in a brisk oven. They will be done enoMgh in about 
twenty minutes. They should be brown on the top, and if they are 
not the tin containing them must be held before the fire for a minute 
or two. Prepared in this way the soles will not require any sauce. 

Sausages on Toast. — Take about one-half of the sausages made 
yesterday from the chump end of the loin of pork. Put a little drip- 
ping in the frying-pan, and before it is melted put in the sausages. 
Let them get hot very gradually, shake the pan frequently, and keep 
turning the sausages till they are equally browned all over. Cook 
them gently ; they will take from fifteen to twenty minutes. Put the 
sausages on a hot dish. Fry some pieces of bread in the fat that has 
drained from them, and put these round them as a garnish. I^luffins 
(January 30th) ; Boiled Hominy (Februaiy 11th). 

Luncheon. — Scalloj^ed Cod. — Remove the flesh from the remains 
of the cold cod, and free it from skin and bone ; season it with salt, 
white pepper, and a very little grated nutmeg. Weigh the flesh, 
take half the weight in fine bread-crumbs, and season these with salt 
and cayenne. Butter a pie-dish, and put a layer of crumbs in the 
bottom ; lay the fish upon the&e, put little pieces of butter here and 
there upon it ; cover well with bread-crumbs, and add a little more 
butti^r. Bake in a gentle oven till the preparation is hot throughout. 
Serve immediately in the dish in which it was baked. For another 
way, see January 26th. Toad in the Hole (January 15th) made of 
the remainder of the sausages. 

Dinner.— Oyster Soup "(October 1st) ; Boiled Rabbit (March 6th) ; 
Onion Sauce (October 14th) ; Fried Bacon (January 2nd) ; Potatoes 
(May 12th) ; Brussels Sprouts (June 4th) ; Vermicelli Pudding (August 
1st) ; Cheese (June 8th). 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Wash the pig's cheek, put a handful of salt on it, and leave it 
to drain until to-morrow. 

2. Take the brains out of the head and throw them away ; re- 
move the eyes and snout also. Take out the tongue, rub it with salt, 
and put it on a separate dish ; sprinkle a handful of salt over the 
head, and let it drain until to-morrow. The pig's feet should be 
rubbed over with salt, any hairs that may have been left on them 
being first scraped away. 

3. Make a mould of corn-flour _ blancmange for dinner to- 
morrow (June 15tli), with orange garnish and sauce (December 6th). 

4. Put the rabbit stock into a perfectly clean earthenware pan, 
and keep it in a cool place ; it will have to be kept for a day or two. 

5. See Note 1, February 17th. 

6. Fillet the anchovies and prepare the stock for breakfast to- 
morrow. 



A YEAR'S COOKERY, 



17 



January 8th, 



Breakfast. 


Luncheon. 


Dinner. 


Ancliovy Toast, with 


Minced Pork. 


Parsnip Soup. 


Poaciied 'Eg^s. 


Apples, witli Tapioca. 


Sea Pie. 


Potted Grouse. 




Potatoes andBoiled Carrota. 


Hot Buttered Toast. 




Corn - flour Blancmange, 


Dry Toast. 




with Orange Garnish aud 


Muflfins. 




Sauce. 


Honey. 




Cheese and Celery. 


Bread aud Butter, Brovrn 






and White. 






Fried Hominy. 







Marketing. 

For the Day.— Two and a ' alf pounds of Buttock Steak {see Marketing, January 
1st) ; a quarter of a po.^ ^,i of Suet ; Parsnips, Potatoes, Carrots, and Celery. 

For To-morrow.— A piece of lOppered Salmon, weighing three or four pounds ; 
a freshly killed young Hare ; a Leg of Mutton. The hare is intended for 
Sunday week, therefore its purchase should be deferred for a few days, 
unless the weather is cold and dry. A hare will not keep Avell in damp 
"muggy" weathei". If the body of the hare is stiff it is fresh, if limp it ia 
stale. The cleft in the lip sho^ild not be widely spread, the claws should be 
tolerably sharp, and the ears tender and soft. If the reverse is the case the 
animal is old. Hang the hare by its hind legs, and do not skin it until a short 
time before it is cooked. If it is already paunched <and it is better not to be 
so, at any rate for a few days) it should be emptied, and the inside wiped dry 
every day. It will be well before buying a piece of salmon to ascertain 
whether or not it is liked in the house. Some people like it exceedingly, 
others not at all ; indeed, it has been compared to " salted door-mat." 

Ask the butcher to supply mutton that, though perfectly sweet, has hung for 
several days. The Wether leg with the lump of fat on is tjie best, and small 
mutton is to be preferred to large mutton. 



Breakfast. — Anchovy Toast. — Allow one ^gg for each person^ 
and one over, and as many small squares of dry toast as there are 
eggs. The toast should be free from cnist, about half an inch thick, 
and should be cut from bread one day old. Make a little anchovy 
butter as follows : — Cleanse six anchovies, cut off their heads, bone 
them, and pound them in a mortar with two ounces of fresh butter, a 
tea-spoonful of essence of anchovy, a pinch of cayenne, and a little 
grated nutmeg. If a mortar is not at hand the ingredients can be. 
mixed on a plate with a broad bladed knife. Fillet as many anchovies 
as will be required ; three will be enough for a round of toast. {See 
Royal Sandwiches, January 5tli.) Spread a little anchovy butter on 
the pieces of toast,, and lay the three filleted anchovies upon them. 
Poach the eggs in boiling water, into- which a table-spoonful of 
vinegar and a little salt have been thrown. When they are set, take 
them up, drain them on the slice, and lay each one upon the piece of 
toast waiting to receive it. Arrange the eggs in a circle, pour a little 
gravy under them made of the cupful of stock prepared for the 
purpose. This stock should have been boiled \\ath a piece of carrot, 
a strip of the bacon-rind, two peppercorns, and the anchovy bones. 
When reduced to about two table-spoonfuls it shoidd be strained, 
o 



18 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



and a few drops of browning may be added to colour it. 

served in this way form a very appetising little dish, and they are 
not really so troublesome to prepare as might be supposed. Potted 
Grouse (January 7th) ; ISIuffins (January 30th) ; Fried Hominy (Feb- 
ruary 12 th). 

Luncheon.— Minced Pork (April 20th) ; Apples, with Tapioca 
(February 18th). 

Dinner.— Parsnip Soup (December 3rd) ; Sea Pie (March 14th) ; 
Potatoes (April 7th) ; Corn Flour (June 15th) ; Orange Garnish 
(December 6th) ; Carrots (July 6th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Mix thoroughly half an ounce of saltpetre, two ounces of 
common salt, two ounces of moist sugar, and a tea-spoonful of black 
pepper. Dry the ingredients before the fire, wipe the salt ojff the 
cheek, and rub it well in every part with the mixture. 

2. Cleanse the pig's head and the feet. Do this by rubbing it in 
every part with plenty of salt, taking away all the thin skin and 
veins, and pieces of bone from the inside. The business is not a very 
agi'eeable one, but it must be done thoroughly. When it is quite 
clean wash the salt away in tepid water, and dry the head. Cleanse 
the feet also, split them in halves, and if necessary singe the coverings 
of the toes till they are loose and can be taken off. Mix thoroughly 
one ounce of saltpetre, six ounces of common salt, six ounces of brown 
sugar, and three-quarters of an ounce of black pepper. Kub the 
mixture into every part of the head, ears, and tongue, and leave all 
in a deep earthenware pan. 

3. Cut the shank bone off the l^g of mutton, and stew it for stock 
while it is fresh. Before using the stock pour it away from the sedi- 
ment which will have settled at the bottom. 

4. Put the slices of salmon to soak first thing in the morning {se^ 
January 9th). 

January 9th. 



Breakfast. i 

Kippered Salmon. 
Remaius of Potted Grouse. 
Hot Buttered Toast. 
Dry Toast. 
Brown and Wliite Bread aud 

Butter. 
Blilk Porridge. 



Luncheon. 

Scotch Collops. 
Macaroni Cheesa. 



Dinner. 

Boiled Brill. 
Roast Leg of Mutton. 
Yorkshire Pudding. 
Boiled Pot;itoes and Jeru- 
salem Artichokes. 
Cottage Plum Pudding. 
Cheese and Pulled Bread. 



Marketing. 

For the Day One ponnd and a half of Buttock Steak (see January 1st) ; one 

good-sized BriU. Brill and turbot are, as a rule, dear in winter. At the 
same time they mav occasiona,lly be obtained cheap. Brill does not possess 
the gelatirjous fins and skin of the turbot, so highly prized by epicures. Its 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 19 

fins, instead of being regarded as choice morsels, are cut off before being 
cooked. Like the turbot, it should be of a yellowish tint, and should be 
chosen on aeoount of its freshness. {See January 3rd.) Potatoes, Arti- 
chokes ; IMacaroui ; six ounces of fixm Beef Suet. 
For To-morrow.— Half a pound of Bat on in rashers. (See January 3rd.) Buy 
a Saddle of Mutton with not very much fat on it, and ask the butcher to 
hang it till wanted. A saddle of mutton is generally spoken of as an ex- 
pensive joint. It is not a cheap one, but neither is it a very expensive one, if 
care is taken to procure it as lean as possible, that is, with as small an allow- 
ance of fat as can be. There is no question that it is an exceedingly delicious 
joint, and excellent soup may be made from the bones. Sea Biscuits. 

Beeakfast. — Kipjm'td Salmon. — Cut thin slices from the sal- 
mon, as many as are Hkely to be wanted, and let them soak in cold 
water all night. Wipe them dry, rub them over with oil or dissolved 
butter, lay them on the fish gridiron, and broil them over a bright 
fire for eiglit or ten minutes. Rub them over with fresh butter, 
squeeze the juice of a lemon over, and serve very hot. Be careful to 
hang the unused salmon in a cool, airy jjlace. Slices may be taken 
from it when wanted. When the piece is finished, more should be 
procured, as kippered salmon, when it is liked, is so useful to keep in 
the house for breakfast. {See Ham-cured Herrings, January 15th.) 
Milk Porridge (June 13th). 

LuNCHEOiSr. — Scotch Collops. — Cut away the fat and any skinny 
portions there may be about the steak, and mince it finely, seasoning 
it well with pepper and salt. An onion can be added, if liked, but 
this is a matter of taste. Melt a little butter in a stew-pan. Put in 
the mince, and stir it frequently to keep it from getting into lumps. 
In about eight minutes dredge a little flour over it, and pour upon it 
a little stock, boiling hot. Let it simmer gently a minute or two 
longer, and serve very hot. Three-cornered pieces of toasted bread 
may be put round the dish as a garnish. For Macaroni Cheese, see 
March 20th. 

'Duii!i^R.— Boiled Biill.—Vut the fish-kettle on the fire with cold 
water to cover the fish, and throw into it a good handful of salt, in 
the proportion of a quarter of a pound of salt to a gallon of water. 
Brin^: it to the boil. Clean and wash the brill inside and out, cut off 
the fins, and rub it over with lemon juice to preserve its whiteness. 
In order to prevent the white side breaking in boiling, cut a slit just 
through the dark skin from the head dov/n the back. Lay the fish 
on the drainer of the fish-kettle, and put it in the boiling water. Let 
it boil quickly for less than one minute ; then draw it back, and let it 
simmer gently till it is done enough. Watch it carefully, and as 
soon as the flesh will leave the bone take it up. If it is not wanted 
for a few minutes, lay a hot cloth on it, and set the drainer with the 
fish upon it across the kettle, but on no account leave it in the water. 
The time required can scarcely be given, because it depends upon the 
thickness of the fish and upon the rate at which the fish is cooked. 
It is better to let it simmer gently. A moderate-sized brill would 
take about twenty minutes ; a large one, half an hour. Put a fish 
drainer covered with a hot napkin on a hot dish. Slip the biill on it, 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



white side up. Garnish it with cut lemon and tufts of parsley placed 
lightly round it. Melted butter flavoured with anchovy (July ITthl 
or, if it may be afforded, Dutch sauce (May 14th) may be served with 
it. Roast Leg of Mutton (March 4th) ; Yorkshire Pudding (December 
3rd) ; Potatoes (April 7th) ; Jerusalem Artichokes (November 30th) ; 
Cottage Plum Pudding (June 6th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Rub the pig's cheeks with the brine, and turn them over in 
the pan. 

2. Do the same to the feet. 

3. Pastry is to be made to-day (April 17th) : two" apple pies 
(August 7th) ; scones (August 26th) ; soda cake (August 14th). 

4. Preserve the stock in which the brill is boiled, and take care of 
any remnants. Boil two table-spoonfuls of rice as for curry ; it wiU 
be required for the kedgeree at breakfast. 

5. Soak Normandy pippins. 



January lOth. 



Breakfast. 




Luncheon. 


Dinner. 


Kedgeree. 

Toasted Bacou. 

Hot Buttered Toast. 

Dry Toast. 

Scones. 

Brown and White 

and Butter. 
Marmalade. 
Bisctiits and Milk. 




Mutton Tart. 
Baked Potatoes. 
Normandy Pippins. 


Palestine Soup. 
Hashed Mutton. 
Savoy and Potatoes. 
Elegant Economist's Pud- 

ding. 
Newmarket Pudding. 
Cheese. 


Bread 





Marketing. 

For the Day.— Potatoes, Savoy, Jerusalem Artichokes for soup. 

For To-morrow.— Cod's Head and Shoulders ; one dozen large Oysters, or hall 
a pint of picked Shrimps for sauce : two pomids of crimped Skate ; Turnip 
Tops ; Potatoes ; Celery for the cheese ; a pennyworth of Parsley {see 
January 3rd) ; and a tin of Potted Hare (Bovill's). Before choosing cod, see 
January 1st, 3rd, and 6th. If fresh oysters may not be afforded, tinned oysters 
may be used instead for sauce. Skate is generally sold cut into strips, and 
curled romid, when it is called crimped skate. It should be chosen for its 
thickness, breadth, and firmness. A little piece of Uver should be sold with it, 
as this is considered a delicacy. Skate is delicious fish at this time of year, 
but it is positively injurious when out of season. Two ribs of Beef, boned 
and rolled by the butcher, to weigh about seven pounds. If preferred, a 
square piece of the brisket may be bought instead of the ribs. The butcher 
should be asked to provide beef that has been hung a few days. If freshly 
lulled, the meat will not be tender. Good beef is firm and elastic to the touch. 
The lean is of a bright red colour, neither pink nor piu-ple It should be 
•well marked with little veins of fat. The fat should be white rather than 
yellow. 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 21 



Breakfast. — Kedgeree. — Pick the flesli of the fish from the bones, 
and break it into flakes free from skin and bone. Remove the skin 
from the rice also, and break it up mth a fork. The fish and rice 
should be in about equal quantities. Melt a slice of butter in the 
frying-pan, throw in the rice and fish, and stir, all briskly together 
till the mixture is quite hot, seasoning it rather highly with salt, 
pepper, and cayenne. Have ready two well-beaten eggs, stir them 
at the last moment into the kedgeree, and serve it very hot on a 
silver dish, if one is at hand. For Toasted Bacon, see January 19th. 
Biscuits and Milk (June 14th) ; Scones (May 23rd). 

Luncheon. — Mutton Tart. — The cook should prepare the mutton 
early in the day, so that she may have time to make good gravy of 
the bones. ' First cut off the meat for the hash in neat slices, about a 
quarter of an inch thick, and put these on one side and between two 
dishes, to keep them from becoming hard. Take off the rest of the 
meat, that which has to be cut into small broken pieces, and mince it 
finely with a little of the fat, but without any skin and gristle. 
Break the bones into small pieces, put them into a saucepan, cover 
them with two quarts of cold water, and let them simmer as long as 
can be allowed. If an early dinner is served, it will be best to 
simmer them for an hour or two with a quart of water, and strain this 
off for the hash ; then boil them again with fresh water for stock. 
Flavour the mince with salt and pepper, a little gTated nutmeg, and 
a very small piece of chopped onion, if liked. Make some good short 
crust (June 19th). Cover a large tart-dish with this, rolled to the 
thickness of the eighth of an inch. Lay th-e mince upon it, moisten 
it with cold gravy," and cover it with pastiy. Ornament the tart 
prettily, cut a slit in the centre to allow the steam to escape, and 
bake in a well-heated oven. Serve hot, with a little of the gravy in a 
tureen. Baked Potatoes (May 4th) ; Normandy Pippins (August 16th). 

Dinner. — Palestine Soup (December 8th); Hashed Mutton (May 
18th) ; Savoy (June 4th) ; Potatoes (April 7th) ; Elegant Economist's 
Pudding to be made of the remains of cottage plum pudding, if there 
are any (May 12th); if not, Newmarket Pudding (June 2nd); Clieese 
(June 8th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. The meat in the hash must on no account be allowed to boil. 
If it does, it will be hard. It must simmer only till it is hot through. 

2. Rub the cheek and the pig's head and feet, and turn aU over in 
the brine. 

3. Be careful that the kedgeree is served hot — hot with pepper, 
hot with the fire, on a hot dish, and upon hot plates. Thus only wilJ 
it be worth anything at all 



22 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



Sunday, January llth. 



Breakfast. 


Dinner. 


Tea. 


Supper. 


Skate, witli Brown 


Cod's Head and 


Thin Bread and 


Cold Beef. 


Butter, 


Shoulders. 


Butter. 


Apple Pie. 


Potted Hare. 


Shrimp or Oyster 


Apricot Jam. 


Cheese. 


Hot Buttered Toast. 


Sauce. 


Marmalade. 




Dry Toast. 


Rolled Beef, 


Soda Cake, made 




Scones. 


Roasted. 


on Friday. 




Brown and WLite 


Potatoes. 






Bread and Butter. 


Turnip Tops. 






Honey. 


Vermicelli Pudding. 






Mak Toast. 


Cheese and Celeiy. 


• 





Breakfast. — Cojrce. — The great secret of making coffee good is 
to make it of a siiiticiency of freslily roasted and freshly ground 
coffee. When, therefore, it cannot be roasted at home and used 
quickly (and a very good and simple machine is sold for doing this), 
the berries should be bought in small quantities at a time, should 
never be ground till just before they are wanted, and should be 
heated in a gentle oven before they are ground, to revive the flavour. 
The best utensil that can be used for making the coffee in is a tin 
cafetiere, which can be procured either large or small, to suit the 
requirements of the family. To use it, first fill it with boiling water 
and let it stand until quite hot, then pour the liquid at once away. 
Place the coffee upon the perforated bottom of the upper compart- 
ment, and press it down with the piston. Put the strainer on the top 
and pour through it gently and gradually as much boiling water as is 
required. Cover the cafetiere, and leave it in a hot place for a few 
minutes. When the liquid has drained into the lower pot the coffee 
is ready for use. If it is to be served in another pot, the vessel 
which is to receive it must be made hot with boiling water before the 
coffee is poured in. To make coffee strong, two ounces of ground 
berries will be needed for a pint of water. If it should happen 
that the coffee gets cold, the cafetiere may be put upon a hot stove and 
left there until steam appears in the spout, when it should be at once 
removed. The coffee should not properly, however, be left to get cold 
in a metal pot. The milk used in making coffee should be added boiling 
hot. This is the best way of making coffee. In very many house- 
holds, however, the old-fashioned coffee-pot is used instead of the 
cafetiere, and then a different method must be adopted. Take the 
quantity of coffee required, put it into the coffee-pot, and set it on the 
stove or over a slow fire for five minutes to get hot. Pour the 
boiling water gently over it, and put it back on the fire for a minute 
or two tiU it boils up. Take it off, pour out a cupful, and porir it 
back into the coffee from a good height. Repeat this process three 
times. Throw a tea-spoonful of cold water into the cofiee and leave 
it by the side of the fire for a few minutes to clear, then put it 
through the muslin strainer into the coffee-pot, already made hot for 



A TEAR'S COOKERY. 



23 



it, in which it is to be sent to table. Skate, with Brown Butter 
(February ] 2th) ; Potted Hare (January Vth) ; Scones (May 23rd) ; 
Milk Toast (June 17th). 

Dinner. — Cod's Head and Shoulders. — Boil the cod in the stock 
in which the brill was cooked (December 6th). Shrimp Sauce (January 
30th); Oyster Sauce (October 16th); Rolled Beef (March 4th); Potatoes 
(May 12th); Turnip Tops (June 4th) ; Vermicelli Pudding (August 
1st) ; Cheese (June 8th). 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Turn over the pig's cheek and the head and feet in the brine. 

2. Preserve the pieces of hsh and any sauce there may be. 

3. Stew the bones of the rolled beef for stock. 



January 12th, 



Breakfast. 



Boiled Eggs. 
Potted Hare. 
Toast or Hot Rolls. 
Biowu and White Bread 

and Butter. 
Honey. 
Bread and Milk. 



Luncheon, 

Shepherd's Pie of Beef. 
Apple Pie. 



Dinner. 



Oyster Soup. 

Broiled Steak. 

Baked Potatoes and Brus- 

sels Sprouts. 
Town Padding'. 
Cheese and Watercress. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— Two dozen large Oysters, or a tin of preserved Oysters. A large 
slice of Rump Steak, not less than one inch thick, and weigliing from three to 
three and a half pounds ; six ounces of Beef Suet ; Apples, Potatoes, Brussels 
Sprouts, Watercress. 

For To-morrow.— A brace of well-hung Pheasants. The condition of the birds 
may be easily ascertained by examination, particularly about the vent. If 
the flesh is white and fresh-looking, and if the birds smell perfectly sweet, the 
pheasants will, when cooked, taste no better than an ordinary fowl, which 
may be procured at much less cost. The degree of " highness " which they have 
attained must be regulated by the tasteof the eaters. Two-pennyworth of fresh 
Mutton Bones ; and order three-pennyworth of Cream for the puree to-morrow. 
One-pennyworth of Parsley. Sardines : in buying Sardines, it will be well 
to procure a tin that will contain svifiicient, and no more, for tlie requirements 
of the family. Although sardines will keep for two or three days, they are 
best when taken from a newly opened tin, and as the fish are preserved in 
tins of varying size, there need be no difficulty in providing the quantity 
likely to be used. For the sake of making a change, they may be turned out 
of the tin to a separate dish, have a little fresh oil poured upon them, and 
minced capers drained frona the vinegar strewed over them. Champagne or 
forced Rhubarb will probably be obtainable now. Half a bundle will be 
sufficient for dinner to-morrow. 



Breakfast. — Boiled Eggs (January 5th); Potted Hare {see Potted 
Grouse (January 7th) ; Bread and Milk (Jainiary 25th). 

Luncheon — Shepherd's Pie. — It may be that the rolled beef will be 
preferred cold. It is probable, however, that if it has been used for 
supper as well as dinner what is left of it will not be very presentable. 
Therefore it will be most economical to make a pie of it. Boil as 



24 



A YEARS COOKERY 



many potatoes as will be required for the quantity of meat ; half-a- 
dozen large ones would be sufficient for one pound of beef. Mash 
them smoothly, and beat them up wath a little salt, a slice of melted 
butter, and the yolk of an Qgg. If any cold potatoes were left yester- 
day they may be used ir stead of boiling fresh ones. Cut the meat 
into thin slices, free from fat, skin, and gristle, or, if preferred, mince 
it finely. Season it with salt and pepper. Butter a shallow pie-dish, 
put the meat into it, and moisten it with any gravy that may be left 
and a ta])le-spoonful of Worcester sauce ; cover v\'ith another layer 
of potato, rough the top with a fork, and bake the pie in a moderate 
oven for about three-quarters of an hour. It ought to be hot through 
and brown on the top. If there be no gravy to moisten the meat, 
use stock instead. Apple Pie made on .Jan. 9th. 

Dinner.' — Make the stock for the oyster soup by stewing the 
bones and skin of the skate and of the cod in the liquor in which the 
brill was boiled. Oj^ster Soup (October 1st) ; Broiled Steak (January 
22nd) ; Potatoes (May 12th) ; Brussels Sprouts (Cabbage, June 4th) ; 
Town Pudding (December 3rd) ; Cheese (June 8th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten, 
1. Piub the pig's cheek and head in the brine, and turn these over. 
• 2. Prepare the fish cakes for breakfast to-morrow of the remains 
of the cod and skate. {See January 13th.) 

3. Wash a few sprigs of parsley, and lay them on a cloth to dry, so 
that they may be ready for fiying with the fish cakes in the morning. 



January 13th, 



Breakfast. 

Fisli Cakes or Sardines. 

Remnins of Potted Hare. 

Hot EoUs. 

Dry Toast. 

Brown and Wliite Bread 

and Bnttcr. 
Marmalade. 
Porridge. 



Luncheon. 

Beef Hash (Economical). 

lirown Betty. 

(If there be any remains of 
the Town Pudding they 
can he used instead of 



this.) 



Dinner. 

Potato Pnr^e. 

Roast Pheasants. 

Bread Sauce and Brown 

Gravy, 
Potato Mould. 
Chestnuts and Brussels 

Sprouts. 
Stewed forced Rhubarb and 

Custard. 
Choese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.—Six or eight poimds of the silversidc of Beef, fresh— the middle 
cut is the best ; Potatoes, Apples, Brussels Sprouts, and Chestnuts— one pint 
of Chestnuts to two pounds of Sprouts. 

For To-morrow.— A fine Neck of Mutton with as little fat as may be. 

Breakfast. — Fish Cakes. — If any cold potatoes were left from 
dinner the day before, they can be nsed instead of boiling fresh ones. 
If there are none, fresh potatoes mnst be boiled for the purpose, the 
cumber to be regitlated by the quantity of fish. There should be 



A YEARS COOKERY. 25 



equal weights of fish and potato. Break the fish, perfectly free 
from skin and bone, into flakes, and rub the potatoes through a fine 
sieve. Mix the two together, and season them rather highly with salt 
and cayenne, and add a few drops of essence of anchovy ; put the 
mixture into a bowl and make it into a stiff paste mth a little milk, 
melted butter, and lightly beaten egg. Half an ounce of butter, a 
table-spoonful of milk, and half an Qgg would be sufiicient for one 
pound of fish, and one pound of cold potatoes. The other half of the 
egg could be u-sed for brushing over the cakes before they were bread- 
crumbed. Flour the hands lightly. Make the paste into cakes about 
an inch and a half in diameter and three-ciuarters of an inch thick. 
Use as little flour as possible in doing this. Up to this point the cakes 
may be prepared the day before they are wanted. Brush the cakes 
over with egg, and toss them in bread-crumbs, and repeat the process 
a second time ; if the cakes are not entirely covered they will burst in 
frying, as they will also be in danger of doing if much flour is used 
with them. Half fill a saucepan with frying fat, and let it boil {see 
Fat for Frying (February 19th and January 17th); arrange the fish 
cakes in the frying-basket, being careful not to let them touch each 
other. As soon as a thin blue smoke can be seen rising from the fat, 
plunge the basket into it, and let it remain until the cakes are a light 
golden brown ; take them out, lay them on kitchen paper to free them 
from grease. Parsley to Fry. — Let the fat get hot again, put the 
dried sprigs of parsley into the basket, and plunge them into the 
hot fat for about two seconds. If when taken out the parsley feels 
crisp, lay it also on the paper for a minute. Pile the cakes neatly 
on a hot dish, garnish them Avith the fried parsley, and serve very 
hot. If a fiying-basket is not at hand, the cakes and the parsley may 
be dropped into the boiling fat, and taken out with a fish-slice. They 
must have plenty of room in the saucepan, and must not touch each 
other. The cakes will be nicer if accompanied by egg sauce, but 
they ^m be very good without it. Kissoles, croquettes, and similar 
preparations should all be fried in this way. If there is no fish for 
fish cakes, sardines may be substituted. Potted Hare {see Potted 
Grouse, January 7th); Rolls (September 4th). Porridge (January 25th). 

Luncheon. — Beef Hash, economical, made of any remnants of 
broiled steak there may be (November 11th); Brown Betty (No- 
vember 26th). 

Dinner. — Potato Pur^e (January 26th) ; Roast Pheasants 
(October 23rd); Bread Sauce (October 18th); Brown Gravy (October 
18th) ; Potato Mould (October 23rd) ; Chestnuts and Brussels 
Sprouts (November 8th) ; Stewed Rhubarb (May 19tb) ; Custard 
(August 10th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. The mistress might privately request the carver to abstain if 
possible from using the legs of the bird, as they will be much nicer 



26 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



devilled for breakfast to-morrow than eaten to-day. They must be 
prepared for devilling over-night. (See Breakfast, January 14th.) 

2. Make some pickle for the beef, enough to cover it entirely 
when it is put into an earthenware pan about its own size. The 
proportions are, one pound of salt, three-quarters of an ounce of salt- 
petre, four ounces of sugar, three quarts of water. The pickle must be 
boiled for twenty minutes, skimmed well and strained, and allowed to 
go cold before the meat is put into it. This pickle, if boiled occasionally, 
will keep for three months this time of the year, though in summer 
time it will not keep more than three weeks. It should be reboiled 
with an additional handful of salt each time it is used, and should, as 
in the first instance, be skimmed, strained, and allowed to go cold 
before it. is used. It will do to salt different kinds of meat. The 
liquor in which the meat is boiled, however, will be too salt to use for 
soup, and will have to be thrown away — a painful business to the 
economical housekeeper. A rather more expensive but better pickle 
may be made with one pound of bay salt, ten ounces of brown sugar, 
two ounces of saltpetre, two ounces of salt prunel, a quarter of a pound 
of common salt to one gallon of water. With this pickle soup can 
be made of the liquor used for boiling meat. Bay salt makes meat 
meUow ; saltpetre (though it gives it the beautiful red colour so much 
admired in pickled beef) tends to harden the meat, therefore it should 
be used sparingly. Meat is much better pickled in brine like this 
than bought ready salted of the butcher. A piece of thick muslin 
should be kept over the pickling jar in order to keep out the dnst and 
flies. The look and smell of the brine will testify to its condition • 
and it is, therefore, supposed that without further notice here it will 
be thrown away when done vdih, and fresh mil be made if required. 
Brine that has once been used for pickling a pig's head should be 
thrown at once away. 

3. Turn and rub the pig's cheek, head, &c. 

4. Hang the neck of mutton in a cool place. 



January 14th. 



Breakfast. 


Luncheon. 


Dinner. 


Devilled Pheasant's Legs, 


Mutton stewed with Vege- 


Soles, Filleted and Eolled. 


witli or without Devil 


tables. 


Salmi of Pheasant. 


Sauce. 


Baked Omelette. 


Fried Potatoes ; Greenj. 


Esgs on the Dish. 




Lfeche Crfeme. 


Hot Toast. Di-y Toast, 




Cheese, Pulled Bread, and 


Brown and White Bread 




Celeiy. 


and Butter. 






Marmalade. 






Com Flour Milk. 







Marketing. 

For the Day.— A pair of Soles, thick and of moderate size (January 3rd); a 
tin of preserved Mushrooms ; halTf a pound of Ratafias ; one Seville Orange. 



A TEARS COOKERY. 27 

If there is not enough pheasant left for a sahni, Steak may be bought to make 
a Sea Pie (March lith). One-pennyworth of Parsley (January 3rd) ; Potatoes, 
Greens. 
For To-morrow.— A tin of ham-cured Herrings ; Fillet of Beef (January 2nd) ; 
Muffins (January 29th) ; half a pound of Macaroni (January 1st). 



Breakfast. — If well cooked, the devil will be regarded by tlie 
epicure as the best part of the pheasants. The legs must be prepared 
over-night. With a sharp knife take the skin off the legs, and score 
the flesh twice crosswise on each side of the bone. Melt two ounces 
of butter, and mix A\dth it a dessert-spoonful of salt, a tea-spoonful of 
pepper, a pinch of cayenne, a spoonful of mustard, and half a tea- 
spoonful of anchovy. Spread this mixture on the legs, and get it in 
between the scores as much as possible. Put a cover over the legs, 
and leave them in a cool place till morning. About a quarter of an 
hour before they are wanted for breakfast lay them on a gridiron 
(which has first been rubbed all over with a piece of the fat taken off 
the neck of mutton, and made hot), and put them over a gentle fire. 
Broil them slowly, turning them every minute. When done enough, 
serve them on a very hot dish (a hot-water dish will be the best), and 
send very hot plates to table with them. If properly dressed, the 
pheasant, though crisp, will not be at all burnt. A little dissolved 
butter should be poured over them before being sent to table. If it 
is wished that they should be very hot, they may be peppered once 
again before being served. The devilled legs may either be eaten 
dry, or a little grill sauce in a tureen may accompany them. This 
may be made as follows : — Chop four shallots or young onions finely, 
and boil them in half a gill of vinegar for five minutes. Put with 
them an equal quantity of the gravy preserved from the pheasant, 
and add a pinch of cayenne, half a tea-spoonful of essence of anchovy, 
and a table-spoonful of sherry, if permitted. If this sauce is used, 
the dissolved butter need not be poured over the devil. Eggs on 
the Dish (December 7th) ; Corn Flour Milk (June 19th). 

Luncheon. — Mutton stevjed with Vegetables. — Divide the neck of 
mutton into three parts ; that is, chop off about two inches from the 
long rib bones, and cut the piece quite off. Toad in the hole may be 
made of it to-morrow. Halve the remaining portion, leaving the best 
end with as many cutlets as will be required for haricot mutton on 
Friday ; the other part, or scrag end, may be stewed for to-day. 
Cut the meat into neat pieces, pepper and salt them, and pack them 
closely in a stew-pan. Put on the top of them a Spanish onion 
finely minced, three carrots cut into slices, and two turnips cut into 
quarters. Cover the saucepan closely, and put it where it will stew 
as gently as possible in its own gravy. If cooked very slowly indeed, 
it will not become dry. At the end of an hour and a half turn the 
meat over. Try the vegetables occasionally, and as soon as they 
are done enough take them up, and put them in a covered basin 
in the oven to keep them hot till the meat is ready — that is, till 
it is tender without being at all ragged. It wiU require from three to 



28 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



four hours' gentle stewing. Take it up, and throw a little cold water 
into the stock in order to make the fat rise to the surface. Skim it 
carefully, and thicken it with a little flour. ^ Mince the vegetables, 
and. toss them in a saucepan over the fire with a little butter. Put 
the meat into the gravy for a few minutes to make it hot, lay it on a 
dish, and put the vegetables in heaps round it. Serve very hot 
Baked Omelette (August 6th). 

Dinner.— Soles, filleted and rolled, with brown sauce (March 1st 
and February 12th) ; Salmi of Pheasant (October 24th) ; Fried 
Potatoes (February 2nd); Greens (June 4th) ; L^che Creme (May 7th)j 
Cheese (June 8th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. If there is not enough pheasant left to make a salmi, the 
bones, including those of the devilled legs, must be stewed for soup. 
To make this, put the bones into a saucepan \\ath a large carrot 
scraped to pulp, a small onion stuck with two cloves, a bunch of 
parsley, three or four outer sticks of celery, one or two strips of 
bacon-rind scalded and scraped, haK a dozen peppercorns, a pinch 
of salt, a crust of bread toasted, and as much water or stock as 
will cover. Let the liquid boil, skim it carefully, draw it back, and 
simmer it gently for three hours. Strain it, rub the vegetables 
through a sieve, and return the pulp to the soup, boil up again, and 
serve with fried sippets. Half a glass of sherry thrown in at the last 
moment will be an improvement. 

2. Make the brawn (March 2nd). 

3. Rub and turn over the cheeks and the silverside of beef. 

4. Do not wash the tin in which the omelette was bailed, but wipe 
it out till it is quite clean with a soft cloth, and keep it in a diy 
place. 



January 15th, 



Breakfast. 


Luncheon. 


Dinner. 


Ham-cured Hen-inga. 


Toad in tlie Hole. 


IJaddock, stuffed and baked, 


Brawn. 


Macaroni Clieese. 


or Pheasant Soup. 


MiifSns. 




FiUet of Beef. 


Brovm and WLite Bread 




Horse-radish Sauce. 


and Buttei'. 




Potatoes. 


Honey. 




Mashed Parsnips. 


PoiTidge. 




Rice Pudding. 

Cheese and Watercress. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— If Pheasant Soup is not provided (Note 1, January IJth), a good- 
sized Haddock. The large haddocks are the best ; Horse-radish, Potatoes, 
Parsnips, Watercress. 



Breakfast. — Ham-cured Herrings, like slices of kippered 
salmon, are delicious appetisers for breakfast ; but as no one could 



Jl YEAR'S COOKERY. 



eat very much of them, they should be accompanied by something 
substantial, as brawn. It is probable that half a herring will be 
plenty for each person. The tins ordinarily sold, price Is., contain 
twelve fish. To prepare them, put as many as will be required in a 
dish, and cover them with boiling water. Let them stand twenty 
minutes, then drain off the liquid, and pour on fresh boiling water. 
At the end of another twenty minutes take them out, remove the 
skin and backbone, and serve. The herrings left in the tin will keep 
in a cool dry place for weeks. 

Brawn (March 2nd) is more relishing when accompanied by 
Brawn Sa,iice. To make this, mix two mustard-spoonfuls of mixed 
mustard ^vitll a dessert-spoonful of brown sugar, a table-spoonful of 
vinegar, and two table-spoonfuls of oil. If there are any oranges 
in the house, the grated rind and juice of half a sweet orange will be 
an improvement. Muffins (Januaiy 30th) ; Porridge (January 25th). 

Luncheon.— ^oac7 in the Hole.— Qui the short end of the neck 
of mutton into pieces, one with a bone and one without. Put into 
a bowl four large table-spoonfuls of flour and a little salt, and make 
a smooth paste with milk, being careful to put in a little at a time, 
and to beat the batter briskly. When it is quite smooth, add the 
rest of the milk (about three-quarters of a pint) and two well beaten 
eggs. Make the batter an hour or two before it is wanted, but 
beat it up again with a small spoonful of baking-powder the laF.t 
thing before it is used. It ought to have bubbles in it, which show 
that it is well beaten. ^ Grease a shallow dish, and make it hot in 
the oven. Put the pieces of mutton into it, and pour the batter 
over them. Bake in a well-heated oven for about an hour and 
a half, till the batter is set and lightly browned. Serve very hot. 
It is impossible to say exactly how much milk will be wanted, 
because some flours take more millt than others ; the batter should, 
however, be of the consistency of very thick cream. A cheaper but 
heavier batter may be made with six ounces of flour, one ^gg, and a 
pint of milk. If there is too much flour the pudding is solid, with too 
little it would not be firm. For ordinary purposes, two table-spoon- 
fuls of flour to an Qgg, with the requisite quantity of milk, is an 
excellent proportion ; and all baked batter puddings may be made 
from it. Macaroni Cheese (March 20th). 

Dinner. — Haddock stuffed and baked (September 4th) ; Fillet 
of Beef (March 4th) ; Horse-radish Sauce (December 3rd) ; Potatoes 
(May 6th) ; Mashed Parsnips (September 30th) ; Rice Pudding 
(February 24th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Turn the silverside of beef in the brine. 

2. Boil up the stock in the pantry that was made from bones, first 
clearing it carefully from fat. Stew in it very gently the skin and 
bones of the fisli. 

3. Put a cupful of white haricot beans to soak all night in cold water 



dO 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



January 16th. 



Breakfast. 

Buttered Eggs. 

Brawn and Brawn Sauce. 

Hot Buttered and Dry i 

Toast. I 

Brown and Wliite Bread I 

and Butter. , 

MUk Toast. 



Limclieoii. 

Cold Beef, ^\'ith Pickles and 

Endive Salad. 
Cranberry Tai-t. 



Dinner. 

MulUgatawney Soup. 
Haricot Mutton, made of 

the best end of tbe Neck 

of Mutton. 
Potatoes, Haricot Beans. 
Eoly-poly Pudding. 
Cbeese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— Six ounces or more of good Kidney Suet for roly-poly pudding 
(June 25th) ; one head of Endive ; one small Beetroot, and a pennyworth of 
small Salad ; Potatoes ; Vegetables for soup. 

For To-morrow.— If the brawn is finished, one small tin of Corned Beef; 
Shoulder of Mutton, not fat ; a pennyworth of fresh German Yeast. 



Breakfast. — Buttered Eggs. — Allow one fresh e.gg for each 
person, with an Qgg over, and one ounce of butter to two eggs. 
Break the eggs into a bowl and beat them till they are Hght and 
frothy ; put the quantity of butter to be used into a separate basin, 

Elace this over boiling water, and stir it till it is melted ; put both 
utter and eggs into an enamelled saucepan, and keep stirring them 
one way over a gentle fire till they are hot through without being 
allowed to boil. Once or twice during the process turn them into the 
basin and back again, in order to mix them thoroughly and to ensure 
their being slowly cooked. Have ready two or three slices of hot 
buttered toast, a slice for each person. As soon as the eggs are hot 
turn them upon the toast, sprinkle a little chopped parsley over the 
top, and serve. 1i the eggs are not taken from the fire the moment 
they are lightly set they will be hard and leathery, even if they do 
not curdle. Brawn (March 2nd); Brawn Sauce (Januarv 15th); Milk 
Toast (June 17th). 

Luncheon. — Salad (March 13th) ; Cranberiy Tart (August 7th). 
Dinner. — Midligaiaumey Soup. — Scrape, cut into pieces, and fry 
in a little fat, one turniiD, two good-sized onions, and four sharp 
apjjlcs. Stir them ^^ith a wooden spoon for a minute, then add the 
white part only of two leeks cut up small, a moderate-sized carrot, a 
bunch of parsley, a bay leaf, a sprig of thyme, and another of sweet 
marjoram. Let the vegetables fry together for three or four minutes, 
then pour over them a pint of the stock boiled up yesterday, and 
simmer till they are tender. ]\lix with them thoroughly two table- 
spoonfuls of flour and about a dessert-spoonful of curry powder ; more 
if the soup is b'ked very hot. Pour in another quart of stock, remove 
the scum as it rises, and siaimer the soup for about half an hour ; 
strain it, and rub the vegetables patiently through a sieve ; return 
the pulp to the liquid, add a little sugar browning and salt, if required, 
boil for ten minutes, and serve. If any cold lean meat is left, cut 



A YEARS COOKERY. 



31 



it into neat pieces, add these to the soup, and simmer till they are 
hot through, but they must not boil. A little rice boiled as for curry 
should be sent to table with this soup on a separate dish {see July 
21st) ; Haricot Mutton (April 13th) ; Potatoes (May 12th) ; Haricot 
Beans (June 20th) ; Roly-poly Pudding (August 18th) ; Cheese 
(June 8th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Pastry and buns are to be made to-day (April 17th). A cran- 
berry tart for to-day, an apple tart, baked custard tart (to make 
this, see January 19th), Vienna bread (August 26th) ; and rice cake 
(August 2ud). 

2. Turn the silverside of beef in the brine, and turn and rub the 
pig's cheeks. 



January 17th. 



Breakfast. 


Luncheon. 


Dinner. 


Kippered Salmon. 


Liver and Bacon, 


Fried Wbitin?. 


Comed Beef. 


Rice SnowbalL 


Slirimp or Ancliovy Sauce. 


Vienna Bread. 




Roast Shoulder of Mutton. 


Hot Buttered Toast. 




Boiled Onions. 


Di-y Toast. 




Potatoes. 


Brown and Wliite Bread 




Savoy. 


and Butter. 




Hayrick Puddings. 


Bread and MUk. 




Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— Whiting (see January 3rd) ; Shrimps ; one pound and a half of 
Sheep's Liver (calf's liver is scarce and dear at this time of the year) ; a 
pound of streaky Bacon already cut into rashers (see Marketing, January 
3rd); half of this is for to-day, and half for breakfast on Monday. One- 
pennyworth of Parsley. Whiting are best in point of flavour when they are 
about nine inches long. They should be chosen for the firmness of the flesh 
and the brightness of the eyes and skin. The fishmonger should be asked to 
prepare them for frying : that is, to clean and skin them, and to fasten the tail 
m the mouth of the fish. One whiting may be allowed for each person. If 
asked to do so, the fishmonger will send the shrimps home ready picked for 
sauce. Spanish Onions, Potatoes, Savoj\ 

For To-morrow.— Endive or Lettuce for salad for supper on Sunday evening ; 
one poimd and a half of tender Buttock Steak for the jugged hare (see 
Marketing, January 1st) ; one tin of Potted Grouse (Bovill's) ; a pair of 
moderate-sized Soles for dinner to-morrow (see January 3rd) ; one well hung 
Neck of Mutton for Monday : the butcher must be asked to supply it with as 
little fat as may be. The neck will be better if it is not jointed until the day 
that it is to be cooked. Therefore, if the cook cannot joint it herself the 
meat should be ordered to be sent home first thing on Monday morning. 
Potatoes, Greens ; six ounces of Suet ; Small Salad. 

Breakfast. — Kippered Salmon (see January 9th and 15th). Corned 
Beef bought yesterday ; Vienna Bread (August 26th) ; Bread and 
Milk (January 25th). 

Luncheon. — Liver and Bacon. — Cut the liver into slices a quarter 
of an inch thick, and dip each slice in Hour, seaso:"ied with pepper and 



S2 A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



a little salt. Trim away the rind from the slices of bacon, and divide 
into pieces convenient for serving. Melt a piece of dripping in a frying- 
pan, put in the bacon, and fry it gently until it is done enough, but 
not overdone. When cooked upon one side turn it to the other. Put 
it on a Jiot dish, and place it near the fire to keep warm. Lay the 
slices of liver in the hot pan and fry them in the bacon fat, turning 
them over when done upon one side. They must be in a single layer, not 
one upon the top of another, so that if necessary half must be done at 
once. The slices will take about a quarter of an hour to fry. In order to 
ascertain whether they are done enough, cut a little piece ; if the liver 
is brown throughout it is done. Put the liver in the centre of the 
dish on which the bacon was placed ; mix a dessert-spoonful of flour 
smoothly with about a quarter of a pint of water, pour this into the 
frying-pan, season it to taste, and stir it till it boils and thickens. 
Pom- it through a strainer upon the liver, but let the bacon be round 
the dish, out of the way of the gravy. Serve very hot. Savoury Hash 
(February 5th) ; Boiled Piice Snowball (February 3rd). 

Dinner. — Fried Whiting. — Flour the whiting, and wrap it in a 
soft cloth, and let it lie in the kitchen for an hour or more. It is an 
advantage for fish thus to lie for an hour or two after it is floured. 
When wanted, half fill an iron saucepan, of a size that will hold the 
frjdng-basket, with frying fat {see February 19th). Put it on the fire 
to boil. When water boils it bubbles up quickly, when fat boils it is 
still. The best way of telling when the fat is ready for the fish is to 
watch it until, when stiU, a pale blue smoke rises, and this is a sign that 
it is ready for the fish. Break an agg, and put the white only into a 
plate and beat it lightly. Pass both sides of the fish through the 
egg, hold it up to drain, and roll it in fine dry bread-crmnbs which 
have been mixed with flour, pepper, and salt, in the proportion 
of a table-spoonful of flour, a small pinch of pepper, and haK a salt- 
spoonful of salt to two ounces of crumbs. As the fish are crumbed 
lay them on a dish until all are prepared, then put them into the 
frying-basket, and do not let them touch each other. When the 
smoke rises, plunge the basket into the boiling fat to cj[uite cover the 
fish, move it gently about, and let it remain until the whiting are 
done through and lightly browned. They will take from six to ten 
minutes, according to their size. Lift the basket out, let the fat drain 
away, then put the fish on a plate covered witli kitchen paper, cover 
it with another sheet, and let it drain before the fire for three or four 
minutes ; put it on a hot dish covered ^vith a napkin or a fish paper, 
and garnish it with fried parsley. Whenever in this book it is said 
that fish is to be fried in plenty of hot fat these directions are to be 
closely followed. {See also Fried Soles, March 24th). If preferred, 
the fish instead of being egged and breaded can be simply floured 
well over before being fried ; many epicures consider it more 
palatable when thus prepared. 

When, as often happens, there is not a frying-basket in the house, 
neither suflicient fat to cover the fish entirely, another method may 



A TEARS COOKERY. 



33 



be adopted. Pat into an ordinary frying-pan as much good dripping 
as will cover tlie bottom all over to the depth of half an inch ; let this 
get quite hot, and when it is still and the blue smoke rises from it, 
put in the floured fish, and when it is cooked upon one side turn 
it to the other. Drain it from grease on kitchen paper, and proceed 
as before. Shrimp (January 30th), or anchovy (July 17th), or Dutch 
(May 14th) sauce should be sent to table with the fish. (If more 
convenient, whiting can be baked instead of being fried, see August 
19th.) Roast Shoulder of Mutton (March 4th); Boiled Onions 
(October 2Sth) ; Potatoes (May 6tli) ; Savoy (June 4th) ; Hayrick 
Puddings (March 19th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Partially prepare tlie hare for to-morrow. If the weather is very 
dry and cold, and if the hare does not appear to have hung long 
enough, leave it a week longer, and substitute next Sunday's dinner 
for to-day. 

2. Turn the silverside of beef in the brine, and turn and rub the 
pig's cheeks. 

3. Take the fat off the fire as soon as it is done with, and pour it 
carefuUy into a basin. Before using it again remove the sediment, 
which will have settled at the bottom of the cake. 

4. Cleanse a little of the small salad bought for supper to-morro\^ 
night, and lay it on a cloth to drain. It is to be served with the 
anchovies. Also fillet the anchovies, to be ready for breakfast, and 
put the fillets betvreen two dishes (January 18th). 

5. Prepare the compote of apples for to-morrow (August 5th and 
September 12th). 

6. Put a cupful of hominy to soak all night in cold water 
(February lOfch). 



Sunday, January 18th, 



Breakfast. 


Dinner. 


Tea, 


Supper. 


Aucliovies, with 


Sole au Gratin. 


Thin Bread and 


Cold Mutton. 


Hard-boiled Eggs. 


Jugged Hiire, witli 


Butter. 


Salad. 


Potted Grouse, 


Red C urrant Jelly, 


Toast. 


Baked CustardTarL 


HotButteredToast. 


Potatoes. 


Compote of Apples. 


Cheese. 


Di-y Toast. 


Greens. 


Uice Cake, 




Browu and White 


Golden Pudding. 




Bread and Butter. 


Cheese. 




Boiled Hominy, 


) 


1 



Breakfast. — The different varieties of prepared cocoa usually 
have directions for making them printed on the packets in which they 
are sold. The method commonly adopted is to mix the quantity of 
cocoa required to a smooth paste with a little cold milk, and to stir in 
with this equal quantities of boiling milk and water. These prepara- 



34 A YEAR'S COOKERY. 

tions of cocoa are almost always adulterated witli arrowroot, sugar, and 
similar substances. The most wholesome and digestible beverage is 
made from the cocoa nibs. These should first be broken up into 
small pieces with a rolling-pin, soaked overnight in cold water, then 
simmered gently with the same water for six or seven hours. The 
liquid should then be strained and allowed to go cold, the fat should 
be skimmed from the top, and the cocoa is ready. The quantities are 
a tea-cupful of nibs to a quart of water ; and during the process of 
boiling, water should be added at intervals to keep up the original 
quantity. The beverage thus produced should be clear and bright 
like coffee, and may be drunk with boiling milk. It has rather a 
peculiar taste, to which, however, the palate soon becomes accus- 
tomed, and it is a far more valuable article of diet than either tea or 
coffee. It is recommended by the faculty both for streng-thening the 
frame in debility and sustaining it under exertion. It is a good plan 
to keep an enamelled saucepan specially for making cocoa, and many 
people keep it always simmering on the side of the stove. It is 
economical to boil the old nibs with the fresh ones ; but this plan, 
though it makes the cocoa richer and more nourishing, and extracts 
the goodness more thoroughly from the nibs, also prevents the cocoa 
having the bright appearance which it would display if made from 
fresh nibs only. From motives of economy, also, cocoa shells are 
frequently substituted for cocoa nibs, the mode of preparation being 
precisely similar. Potted Grouse (January 7th) ; Boiled Hominy 
(February 11th). 

Anchovies. — Allow three anchovies for each egg, and one G,gg for 
each guest. Boil the eggs hard for eight minutes, and let them go 
cold. Wash the anchovies, and fillet them by splitting them open 
^\dth the fingers and thmnbs of both hands, and removing the back- 
bone. Arrange the fillets crosswise on a dish, put the small salad 
that was washed overnight round them, and lay on this the hard- 
boiled eggs chopped into dice. Pour a little salad oil over all, and 
serve. 

Dinner. — Sole au Gratin (May 3rd) ; Jugged Hare (October 
25th) ; Potatoes (May 6th) ; Greens (June 4th) ; Golden Pudding 
(May 4th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 

Tea. — Compote of Apples (August 5th and Note 3, September 
12th) ; Pvice Cake (August 2nd). 

Supper. — Mutton left yesterday ; Salad (March 13th) ; Baked 
Custard Tart (January 19th). 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Be especially careful to preserve everything that remains of 
the hare-bones, inferior joints, gravy, and forcemeat. Excellent soup 
may be made of these to-niurrow, 

2, Turn the beef in the brine, and rub the pig's cheek. 



A YEAKS COOKERY. 



S5 



January 19th. 



Breakfast. 


Luncheon. 


Dinner. 


Toasted Bacon. 

Potted Grouse. 

Vienna Bread. 

Dry Toast. 

Brown and White Bread 

and Butter. 
Marmalade. 
Fried Hominy. 


Cold Meat Piquante. 
Fried Potatoes. 
Baked Custard Tart. 


Hare Soup. 

Neck of Mutton, boiled 

with Parsley Sauce. 
Potatoes. 
Mashed Parsnips, 
Brown Bread Pudding. 
Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— A Neck of Mutton. The butcher should be asked to joint the 

meat. Potatoes, Parsnips. 
For To-morrow.— If Kippered Salmon is not already in the house, a quarter of 

a pound of Kippered Salmon, cut into thin slices ; Muffins (January 29th). 



Breakfast. — Potted Grouse (January 7th). Toasted Bacori. — 
BacoD is never so delicate as when it is toasted before the fire, either 
on a forK or on the pins of an ordinary toaster. ' Bacon should be 
evenly cut. When fat it should be rather thick for toasting ; lean 
bacon may be cut tliinner. Eggs poached separately in water and 
drained well may, if liked, be_ served with the bacon. They will be 
by many preferred to eggs fried in fat. When bacon is fried, the 
process of cooking should be carried on gently over a slow fire until 
the fat looks transparent, without being browned. Bacon fat should 
always be carefully preserved, as it may be made useful in the pre- 
paration of various dishes. Vienna Bread (August 26th) ; Fried 
Hominy (February 12th). 

Luncheon. — Cold ISleat Piquante (March 30th) ; Fried Potatoes 
(Februaiy 2nd). Baked Custard Tart. — Put half a pint of milk into 
a saucepan, with two or three inches of thin lemon-rind, or, if 
preferred, an inch of stick cinnamon. Let it simmer gently till it 
is pleasantly flavoured. Sweeten it, let it cool, take out the flavour- 
ing ingredients, and add a small pinch of salt. Whisk three 
eggs lightly, and put them with the milk. Line a shallow tart- 
dish with good short crust, pour in the custard, grate a little nutmeg 
over the top, and bake in a gentle oven. If baked quickly the 
custard will be w^atery. If preferred, for economy's sake, two 
eggs may be used, and a small tea-spoonful of corn-flour may be 
made into a smooth paste with a little cold milk, and boiled in the 
custard. 

Dinner. — Hare Sou}). — Look over the remains of the hare, pick 
the best of the meat from the bones, and cut it intc^ neat pieces 
convenient for serving. Cover these over, and leave them in a cool 
place till wanted. Put all the rest — inferior joints, bones, trimmings, 
and any forcemeat and gravy that may be left — into a saucepan, and 
cover them with stock made from bones, or, if it has all been used, 



"36 A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



with water, and add an onion and eight or nine sticks of celery. 
Simmer gently till the bones are quite clean, then take them out, 
and rub all that remains patiently through a sieve, forcing as much 
through as possible. Put pulp and liquid back into the stew-pan, 
and let the soup boil up again. If it is too thin put a small lump 
ot brown thickening ^vith it, then let it simmer for awhile, removing 



^^F^^i:^^^?^ 



Hah 



the fat as it rises, till it is free from grease. Season it with salt 
and cayenne to taste, throw in the pieces of meat, and let them 
remain till they are hot, but they must not boil. Put the soup_ into 
the tureen, stir into it a glass of port, a few drops of lemon-juice, 
and a spoonful of red currant jelly, and serve very hot. 

Neck of Mutton, boiled (February 23rd) ; Parsley or Maitre 
d'Hotel Sauce (:\ray Gth); Mashed Parsnips (September 30th); 
Potatoes (May 12th) ; Brown Bread Pudding (July 20th) ; Cheese 
(June 8th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Turn the l^eef in the brine, and rub the pig's cheek. 

2. Preserve the liquor in which the neck of mutton was boiled. 

3. First thing in the morning put the kippered salmon into luke- 
warm water to soak till the next day.' 



A YEARS COOKERY. 



87 



Breakfast. 

Devilled Salmon. 
Boiled Eggs. 



Buttered Toast. 
Dry Toast. 
Honey. 
Porridge. 



January 20th, 



Luncheon. 



with 



Minced Mutton 

Poached Eggs. 
Stewed Rhubarb and Milk 



Dinner. 

Milk Soup. 

Boiled Beef and Carrots. 

Mashed Turnips. 

Potatoes. 

Queen's Pudding. 

Cheese. 



Marketing. 

Half a bxmdle of Champagne Rhubarb ; Txirnips, 



Carrots, 



For the Day. 

Potatoes. 

For To-morrow.— Three-quarters of a pound of Hard Cod's Roe ; eight pounds 
of the thin end of the Flank of Beef, to be chosen with as little fat as possible, 
and cut as square as can be. (To choose Beef, see January 10th.) 



Breakfast. — Devilled Salmon — {See January 8th and Qth.) 
Prepare the slices of salmon, and grill them as directed in Januarj^ 
Pth, remembering only to brush them over \vith the devil mixture 
used for the pheasant's drum-sticks (January 14tli), instead of simply 
oiling them. Boiled Eggs (January 5th) ; JMufllns (January SOth) ; 
Porridge (January 25th). 

Luncheon. — Minced Mutton, — Pick the meat entirely from the 
neck of mutton, and free it from all fat, gristle, and sinew. Put 
the bones and trimmings into a saucepan, with as much cold water 
as will cover them, and add an onion, half a blade of mace, one 
clove, six peppercorns, a bouquet garni (that is, a bunch of parsley, 
a sprig of thyme, and a bay leaf, tied neatly together), and a tea- 
spoonful of flour mixed to a smooth paste with a little cold water. 
Simmer till the gravy is good. Strain it, season it with salt, and 
colour it with a few drops of sugar browning. If there be time let 
it stand, so that the fat can be taken from it. Mince the meat 
finely, or, better still, pass it through a sausage machine. Put it 
into a stew-pan, with as much gravy as will barely moisten it. Season 
it with pepper and salt, put it on the- side of the range, and let it 
heat very slowly for about half an hour, till it is hot through, but of 
course it must never reach the boiKng point, or it will be tough. 
If liked, a very little Harvey, Worcester, or Chutney sauce can 1)8 
added to it. Whilst the mince is heating, take a slice of bread an 
inch thick, remove the crust, and with a sharp knife cut it into 
four pieces the shape of a heart. If any queen cake tins are in the 
house the bread can be stamped instead of being cut. Fry these 
pieces in hot fat till they are brightly browned without being black, 
and crisp without being hard. When they are done, lay them on a 
dish covered with kitchen paper to free them from grease. When 
the mince is almpst ready, poach some eggs, allowing one for each 
person. Place the mince in the centre of a dish, lay the eggs upon 



Si 



A TEAR'S COOKERY. 



it, put tlie pieces of fried bread, with a little sprig of parsley on each 
ons, round it, and sprinkle a little finely-shred parsley over each egg. 
Serve very hot. Any kind of cold game, poultry, or meat can be 
minced in this way, and will form a palatable and pretty-looking 
dish. For Stewed Rhubarb, see May 19th. 

Dinner. — Milk Soup {see January 3rd). Boiled Beef which has 
been salted. The meat should be quickly rinsed in cold water before 
being used, in order to free it from salt (February 23rd). Carrots 
(July 6th) ; Mashed Turnips (September 30th) ; Potatoes (April 7th) ; 
Queen's Pudding (August 9th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Take the remains of the marrow from the bone in as large 
pieces as possible. This is for marrow toast for breakfast to-morrow. 

2. Be particularly careful not to let the mince boil in the gravy. 
It must simmer only till it is hot through. 

3. Chop small and stew the mutton bones for stock. 

4. Boil the brine with an additional handful of salt, and when it 
is cold lay the thin flank of beef in it. 

5. Turn and rub the pig's cheek. 

6. Boil the fresh roe in salted water until it is firm. Let it get 
cold ; then cut it into slices the third of an inch thick, and lay these 
in a pickle made of a table-spoonful of ^dnegar, a tea-spoonful of salt, 
a little pepper, and a pinch of mixed spice. Let the roe lie in tliis 
till to-morrow, and turn it once or t^uce during the day. 



January 21st. 



Breakfast. 


Luncheon. 


Dinner. 


Man-ow Toast. 


Cold Boiled Beef. 


Onion Sonp (made of the 


Cod's Hoe. 


Endive Salad. 


liquor in which the beef 


Buttered Toast. 


Sweet Macaroni. 


was boiled). 


Dry Toast. 




Beef Steak and Oyster Pie. 


Marmalade. 




Potatoes and Large Savoy. 


Bro-ivn and White Bread 




Pice Pudding. 


and Butter. 




Cheese. 


Bread and Milk. 







Marketing. 

For the Day.— Two pounds and a half of tender Steak (see Jamiary 1st) ; half 
an Ox Kidney ; one tin preserved Oysters, or, if preferred, two dozen fresh 
Oysters ; one pennyworth of Parsley ; Endive, Beetroot, Potatoes, Savoy ; 
half a pound of Macaroni. 

For To-morrow.— One tin of Collared Tongue ; Bloaters (see Note 2, 
January 2nd). 

Breakfast. — Marrow Toast. — Put the pieces of marrow into a 
Btew-pan with a little water, highly salted. Let it boil for a minute, 
then drain away the liquor. Have ready one or two slices of toast, 



A YEARS COOKERY. 



39 



spread the marrow on these, and put them into a Dutcli oven before 
a clear fire for about five minutes. Take tlie toast up, sprinkle over 
it a little pepper, salt, and finely-chopped parsley, and serve as hot 
AS possible. 

Cod's lioe. — Drain the slices of roe from the pickle, dry them 
and flour them. Break an egg, and separate the yolk from the white. 
The yolk may be used for Dutch sauce. Beat the white Kghtly, pass 
the slices of roe through it, and cover them with seasoiied bread- 
crumbs. Fry them in hot fat till they are brightly browned {see 
Fried Whiting, January 17th) ; drain them on kitchen paper, and 
pour over them a little Dutch sauce (May 14th), or, if preferred, 
anchovy (July 17th) or parsley sauce (May 6th). Bread and Milk 
(January 25th). 

Luncheon. — Salad (March 13th); Sweet Macaroni (August 13th). 

Dinner. — Onion Soup. — Peel half a dozen good-sized onions and 
two potatoes. ]\Iince them finely, and put them into a stew-pan with 
a lump of dripping, and let them " sweat " for about ten minutes. 
They must not brown. Pepper them, pour over them about three 
pints of the liquor in which the beef was boiled, and add a lump of 
sugar, a strip of bacon-rind, and one or two outer sticks of celery. 
Let them simmer gently for about twenty minutes, or till they are 
tender. Bub the soup through a hair-sieve with the back of a 
wooden spoon, then return it to the stew-pan. Grate the crumb of 
a stale loaf into half a pint of boiling miUi ; stir this into the soup. 
Serve very hot. Beef Steak and Oyster Pie (March 26th) ; Potatoes 
(May 12th) ; Savoy (June 4th) ; Bice Pudding (February 24th) ; 
Cheese (June 8th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Be careful to dry the endive thoroughly after washing it. 

2. Turn and rub the pig's cheek and the beef. 

3. Put two table-spoonfuls of tapioca to soak in one pint of water 
for luncheon to-morrow. 



January 22nd 



Breakfast. 



Bloaters. 

Collared Tongiie. 

Buttered Toast. 

Dry Toast. 

Honey. 

Brown and White Bread and 

Butter. 
Corn Flour Milk. 



Luncheon. 

Bubble and Squeak. 
Apples and Tapioca, 



Dinner. 



Vermicelli Sotip. 
Steak i. la Bearuaise. 
Fried Potatoes. 
Brussels Sprotits. 
Newmarket Pudding. 
Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— A slice of Rump Steak not less than one inch thick, and weighinj? 
from three to three pounds and a half. The steak should not be cut from the 



40 A TEAR'S COOKERY. 



riimp very long before it is used, ainl, if the weather be favourable, before it 
is taken the meat should have been hung for some days. To choose steak, see 
Remarks on Marketing, January 1st. Apples, Potatoes, Brussels Sprouts, 
Savoy. 
For To-morrow.— Order, to come first thing in the morning, abi)ut four pounds 
of the thick Flank oi Beef (see January 10th) ; Pearl Barley ; Muffins. 

BiiEAKFAST. — Bio:iters (see January 3rd) ; Collared Tongue (Market- 
iilg, Jannaiy 2nd, and Note 2, January 3rd) ; Corn Flour j\Iilk 
(June 19th). 

Luncheon. — Bubble and Squeak. — Cut tlie remains of tlie boiled 
beef into thin slices, fat and lean together. If sufficient cabbage 
were left, mince it finely ; if there be not sufficient, boil a small savoy 
till done enough, drain, press it well, and cut it small. Fry the 
slices of meat in a frying-pan over a brisk fire with butter or dripping 
till they are hot through without being dry or hard. Put them on a 
hot dish and keep them hot till the cabbage is ready. Turn it over 
in the frying-pan till it is heated throughout. Pile it on a hot dish, 
put the pieces of meat round it, and serve immediately. If any other 
vegetables are left, such as turnips, carrots, or parsnips, they also 
may be made hot and served with the Bubble and Squeak. JSTo sauce 
will be required for this dish. Tapioca and Apples (February 18th). 

Dinner. — Vermicelli Sou]). — To be made of the bone stock 
already in the house, or with essence of beef (see March 22ud). 

Broiled Steak udth Bearnaise Sauce. — It will be necessary to have a 
clear bright fire for broiling the steak. Therefore, about tliree- 
quarters of an hour before it is to be cooked, clear the dust away 
from the bottom of the bars, and make up the fire with small coal 
mixed with coke or cinders that have been broken up. If the fire is 
blazing instead of being clear, throw a handful of salt upon it. If, 
however, the steak does not brown properly, make a flare by 
throwing a little piece of dripping upon the fire. Keep the steak 
in the warm kitchen for a couple of hours before it is broiled ; 
especially is this necessary if the weather is frosty. A gridiron 
ought to be kept specially for chops and steaks, another for fish, and, 
by rights, a third for bloaters. If the same utensil be used for every 
purpose, it is more than probable that the flavour of the steak will be 
spoiled. Make the gridiron hot over the fire, clean it well v/ith a 
piece of paper or rag, rub it over with mutton fat, and again make it 
hot. Season the steak with pepper and salt, lay it upon the gridiron, 
move it about for a few seconds for fear it sticks, and then turn it 
every two minutes till it is done enough. Be, of course, particularly 
careful not to stick a fork or anything else into the meat, as that 
would allow the gravy to escape. If a pair of steak-tongs is not at 
hand, put the fork into the fat. \\nien the steak is black on the 
outside, and when pressed with the side of a fork it feels firm, not 
hard to the touch, it is done enough. It is scarcely possible to say 
how long it will take, because the time required will vaiy with the 
state of the fire, the condition and thickne.^s of the meat, and the 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



41 



weather. Under favourable conditions it will be done enough, but 
with the gravy in it, in ten minutes, well done in twelve minutes, and 
in the condition known as " under-done " in eight minutes. When 
taking it from the gridiron stick a fork into the fat, and hold the 
steak up for a minute to let the fat drain from it, and lay it on a hot 
dish. Have the plates hot and the Bearnaise sauce (March 23rd) 
ready ; spread the sauce over the steak and serve iiiimexliately. If 
liked, a pat of fresh butter may be put under it and another upon 
it, while the juice of half a lemon and a table-spoonful of Harvey 
or Worcester sauce may be put with it ; the last, however, must loe 
heated separately in a cup in the oven. Or mattre cVlwtel butter 
(April 15th) may be rubbed over it, or, if preferred, onion (October 
14th), oyster (October 16th), or tomato (July 15th) sauce may be 
served separately in a tureen. Fried potatoes or fried onions form 
a suitable garnish for the dish. Fried Potatoes (February 2nd) ; 
Brussels Sprouts (June 4th) ; Newmarket Pudding (June 2nd) j 
Cheese (June 8th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Boil one of the pig's cheeks {see February 1st). 

2. Turn the beef, and turn and rub the pig's cheek. 

3. Ptemember to boil the vermicelli separately before adding to 
the soup, or it will spoil its clearness ; also to break it up slightly, so 
that it will not hang in strings when conveyed from the plate to the 
mouth. 

4. Soak the split peas in cold water all night. 

5. Make potted beef for breakfast of the remains of steak. 
(January 23rd.) 



January 23rd. 



Breakfast. 




Luncheon. 


Dinner. 


Potted Beef, made cl 


any 


Tripe. 


Scotch Broth. 


little pieces left 


from 


Stewed Rliuharb, with Milk 


Boiled Beef. 


Broiled Steak. 




or Cream. 


Turnips and Carrots. 


Boiled Pig's Cheek. 






Apple Gateau. 


Muffins. 






Cheese. 


Di-y Toast. 








Marmalade. 








Bread and Milk. 









Marketing. 

For the Day.— One pound and a half of dressed Tripe, perfectly fresh, thick fat, 
and as white as possible. The honeycomb is usually preferred. In London 
fresh tripe is generally to be obtained on a Friday. Half a bundle of Forced 
or Champagne Rhubarb. Beef ordered j-esterday to come first thing in the 
morning. Vegetables required for Scotch broth (March 3rd). 

For To-morrow.— A Tin of Pilchards. These fish are preserved and sold in tins, 
something like sardines. They constitute a pleasant variety for the breakfast 
table. 



42 A YEAB^S COOKERY. 



Breakfast. — Potted Beef. — There are almost sure to be some little 
pieces of steak left in tlie dish, and these will probably be sufficient 
to make a small jar of potted beef for breakfast. To make it, trim 
away all the fat and gristle and burnt outside portions. These can 
be cut away very sparingly. (The fat can afterwards be rendered for 
frying purposes.) Cut the lean into thin strips, and afterwards mince 
it very finely. If it can be passed through a sausage machine so much 
the better. Pound it in a mortar to a perfectly smooth paste, and as 
the pounding goes on keep adding the seasoning a little at a time. 
Half a pound of beef will need half a tea-spoonful of salt, a quarter 
of a tea-spoonful of pepper, three or four grates of nutmeg, half a tea- 
spoonful of anchovy essence, and the gravy carefully scraped out of 
the disL together with a piece of fresh butter, about the size of an 
egg, broken up small. If preferred, two ounces of cold boiled bacon 
fat (taken in this instance from the pig's cheek) can be pounded in 
the mortar, and used instead of butter. If too much gravy is used 
the meat mil not keep so well. AVhen the seasoning ingredients are 
thoroughly incorporated put the pulp into a covered jar, set this in a 
saucepan of boiling \\'ater, and let it remain until it is hot all through; 
take it off the fire, stir it occasionally till nearly cold, then press it 
firmly into small flat jars, and smooth the top over with a knife ; the 
next day pour on as much dissolved butter or mutton suet as wiU 
cover it. Be sure to keep it in a cool place. If this is done, and if 
paper is tied over it after it is made, it will keep good for some days. 
Small portions of beef, veal, ham, game, poultry, and fish can always 
be utilised in this way, and will afford an agreeable addition to the 
breakfast table. When potted beef is wanted, and there is no cold 
meat that can be used, it will have to be prepared specially for the 
purpose. For this take tender meat, the steak or part of the round. 
Cut it into small pieces, and spread a Httle beef dripping upon it ; 
lay it in an earthenware jar which has a closely-fitting lid, put 
a piece of bacon upon it, and pour in a very little cold water. A 
quarter of a pint of water will be sufficient for two pounds of beef. 
Put the lid on the pot, set it in a saucepan of boiling water, or 
in a moderate oven, and let it stew gently till tender, basting it occa- 
sionally. ^ Pour away the gravy, and let the beef get cold before 
potting it, then proceed as directed above. A cake of fat will 
settle on the top of that which is poured off, and this can be used 
for cooking purposes ; under it will be gravy, which wiU prove 
a useful addition to sauces and other preparations. The beef 
from which beef tea has been made is frequently potted. The 
more completely the gravy has been drawn from it the less 
valuable it is. ^Meat that is quite white and ragged is not worth 
potting ; if, however, there is any goodness at all left in it, season- 
ing can be added to make it palatable, and so it may serve as a 
relish, and that is what potted meat is intended for as much as 
anythi.ng. Pig's Cheek (February 1st) ; Muffins (January 30th) ; 
Bread and Milk (January 25th). 



A TEAKS COOKERY. 43 

Luncheon. — Tripe (December 4th) ; Onion Sauce (October 14tli) ; 
Stewed Rhubarb (May 19th). 

Dinner. — Scotch Broth (March 3rd), with the beef of which it 
is made for meat ; Apple Gateau (December 9th) ; Cheese (Juno Stli), 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Pastry had better be made on Saturday this week. As a pigeon 
pie is to be made for supper on Sunday night, it will be better fresh, 

2. Pour the remains of the broth into an earthenware jar, and put 
it in a cold place. It will be as good the second day as it is the first 

3. Turn the flank of beef, and turn and rub the pig's cheek. 



January 24th. 



Breakfast. 

Pilchards. 
Collared Tongiie. 
Buttered Toast. 
Dry Toast. 
Lemon Marmalade. 
Milk Toast, 



Luncheon. 



Scotcli Brotli. 
Beef. 



Dinner. 

stewed Eels, 

Civet of Rabbit. 

Potatoes, Boiled Onionii, 

or, if preferred. Greens. 
Newcastle Pudding. 
Cheese, 



Marketing. 



For the Day.— Two pounds of Silver Eels ; two moderate-sized Ostend Rabbits, 
The eels should, when bought, be actually living and moving briskly 
about. Sharp-nosed eels are the best, and they are finest when rather more 
than a half-crown piece in ch'cumference, with white bellies, and backs of a 
bright coppery hue. Yellow eels have a muddy taste. If the fishmonger is 
to skin the eels, ask him before doing so to pierce the spinal marrow just 
behind the head with a skewer. This will at once kill the creatures, and 
prevent the needless barbarity of skinning them alive. Rabbits should be 
treshly killed and young. If fresh, they will be stiflr, with the flesh white and 
dry ; if stale, the flesh will be slimy, and of a bluish tinge. Young rabbits 
have the claws smooth and sharp, the wool smooth, and the ears tender and 
easily torn. If the wool is rough, the claws blunt and rugged, and the ears 
tough, the creature is old. Apples, Potatoes, Onions, or Greens ; a pennyworth 
of German Yeast. 

For To-morrow.— A small Codfish, or the tail end of a large fish (see January 
1st and 6th); four plump young Pigeons; three pounds of tender Rump 
Steak (January 1st) ; a bunch of Rhubarb. The butcher shoxild be asked to 
cut off steaks imtil only three pounds are left, and then to take the meat off 
the bone in one piece, and send this for the purpose required. An addi- 
tional pound and a half of rump or buttock steak will be needed for the 
pigeon pie. A quarter of a pound of beef Kidney Suet ; one-pennyworth of 
Parsley. Herbs, &c., for forcemeat, should be in the house, as well as sponge 
biscuits and ratafias for cabinet pudding. The pigeons, if they are tame, 
should be freshly killed, and the dark coloured birds are believed to have the 
highest flavour. Wood pigeons are in season, however, in December and 
January. If they are chosen, they wUl be better for having been hung a few 
days. Potatoes, Greens ingredients for a salad. 

Breakfast. — Pilchards (iMarketing, January 23rd) ; Collared 
Tongue ; Milk Toast (June 17th). 

Luncheon.— Scotch Broth ; Beef, left yesterday. 



44 A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



DrNTNER. — Stewed Eels. — If the cook has to kill and skin the eels, 
she should first drive the skewer into the spinal marrow just behind 
the head, in order to kill it. She should remember not to cut off the 
creature's head in order to kill it, or it will continue to wriggle as 
though alive. The fish should be skinned immediately. To do this, 
cut through the skin round the neck, and turn it down about an inch ; 
then passing a skewer through the head, by which it can be firmly 
held, take hold of the skin ^vith a rough cloth, and draw it gently off. 
It will come away with ease and without injuring the flesh. After 
this, gut the eel without breaking the gall, cut off the bristles which 
run up the back, divide into pieces about two inches in length, and 
lay these in strong salt and water for one hour. This will entirely 
stop the quivering of the flesh, supposing this stiU continues, in fact 
or in imagination. Dry the pieces well, roll them in flour seasoned 
with pepper and salt, and fry them in a little good dripping till they 
are lightly browned. Let them drain till cold ; this will deprive them 
of the oily taste which often proves so objectionable. Put them into 
a clean stew-pan, with a bay leaf, an onion stuck with two cloves, 
a bunch of parsley, an inch of lemon-rind, and about half a pint of 
stock made from trimmings. Let them simmer gently from twenty 
to thirty minutes according to their thickness. Take them up, and 
keep them hot till the sauce is ready. Strain the gravy, thicken it 
with a little flour, add to it salt and cayenne, a few drops of essence 
of anchovy, and the juice of half a lemon ; let it simmer for ten 
minutes. If permitted, a glass of red wine may now be added to it. 
Arrange the pieces of eel on a dish, strain the sauce over them, and 
garnish with three-cornered sippets. Civet of Rabbit (December 
8th) ; Potatoes (May 12th) ; Boiled Onions (October 28th) ; Greens 
(June 4th) ; Newcastle Pudding (June 12th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Pastry is to be made to-day (April I7th) : the pigeon pie (May 
15th), one apple pie (August 7th), eight teacakes (August 26th), rice 
cake (August 2nd). 

2. Be particularly careful to preserve the rabbit-bones that are 
left. They will make excellent stock. 

3. Pot the remains of the collared tongue (Note 5, September 
26th). 

4. Turn the beef, and turn and nib the pig's cheek. 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



45 



Sunday, January 25th. 



Breakfast. 

Pilchards. 
Potted Tongue. 
Boiled Eggs. 
Hut Teacakes. 
Dry Toast. 
Brown and White 
Bread and Butter. 
Porridge. 



Dinner. 

Baked Cod. 

Eoast E-ump Steak. 

Potatoes. 

Greens. 

Cabinet Pudding. 

Cheese. 



Tea. 

Brown and White 
Bread and Butter. 
Jam. 
Bice Cake. 



Supper. 



Pigeon Pie. 
Salad. 

Stewed Rhubai'b, 
with MQk. 



Breakfast. — Pilcliards (Marketing, January 23rd) ; Potted 
Tongue (September 26th) ; Boiled Eggs (January 5th) ; Hot Teacakes 
(February 14th). 

Porridge. — When there are children in the family it is a good 
plan, whatever they may have for breakfast, to let them begin the 
meal either with oatmeal porridge or bread and milk. Porridge is 
wholesome and nourishing, and vnJll help to make them strong and 
hearty. Even grown-up people frequently enjoy a small portion of 
porridge served with treacle and milk. Oatmeal is either " coarse," 
medium," or "fine." Individual taste must determine which of 
these three varieties shall be chosen. Scotch people generally prefer 
the coarsest kind. The ordinary way of making porridge is the 
following : Put as much water as is likely to be required into a sauce- 
pan with a sprinkling of salt, and let the water boil. Half a pint of 
water vnW. make a single i)lateful of porridge. Take a knife (a 
" spurtle " is the proper utensil) in the right hand, and some Scotch 
or coarse oatmeal in the left hand, and sprinkle the meal in gradually, 
stirring it briskly all the time ; if any lumps form, draw them to the 
side of the pan and crush them out. When the porridge is sufficiently 
thick (the degree of thickness must be regulated by individual taste), 
draw the pan back a little, ptii on the lid, and let the contents simmer 
gently till wanted ; if it can have one hour's simmering, all the better, 
but in hundreds of families in Scotland and the North of England it 
is served when it has boiled for ten minutes or a quarter of an hour ; 
less oatmeal is required when it can boil for a long time, because the 
Bimmering swells the oatmeal, and so makes it go twice as far. During 
the boiling the porridge must be stirred frequently to keep it from 
burning to the saucepan, but each time this is done the lid must be 
put on again. When it is done enough it should be poured into a 
basin or upon a plate, and served hot, with sugar or treacle, and milk 
or cream. ^ The very best method that can be adopted for making 
porridge is to soak the coarse Scotch oatmeal in water for twelve 
hours or more (if the porridge is wanted for breakfast it may be put 
into a pie-dish over night and left till morning). As soon as the fire 
is lighted in the morning it should be placed on it, stirred occasion- 
ally, kept covered, and boiled as long as possible, although it may be 
served when it ha;s boiled for twenty minutes. When thus prepared 



16 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



it will be almost like a delicate jelly, and acceptable to the most 
fastidious palate. The proportions for porridge made in this way are 
a heaped table-spoonful of coarse oatmeal to a pint of water. It is 
scarcely necessary to give directions for making bread and milk, for 
every one knows how this is done. It may be said that the prepara- 
tion has a better appearance if the bread is cut very small before the 
boiling milk is poured on it, and also that the addition of a small 
pinch of salt takes away the insipidity. Rigid economists sometimes 
swell the bread with boiling water, then drain this off, and pour milk 
in its place- This, however, is almost a pity, for milk is so very good 
for children ; and though recklessness is seldom to be recommended, 
a mother might well be advised to be reckless about the amount of 
her milk bill, provided always that the quantity of milk be not 
wasted, and that the children have it. If it should happen that the 
little ones got tired of oatmeal porridge, or of bread and miU^, a 
variety might be permitted them in the form of rice and barley 
porridge (June 15th), rice milk (June 18th), milk porridge (June 
13th), and in summer-time plum porridge (August 31st) may be 
given them. 

Dinner. — Baked Cod (February 3rd) ; Roast Rump Steak : skewer 
the meat round firmly, and baste it frequently whilst it is being 
cooked (March 4th) ; Potatoes (May 12th) ; Greens (Cabbage. June 
4th) ; Cabinet Pudding (July 12th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 

Tea. — Rice Cake (August 2nd). 

SuppEE. — Pigeon Pie made on Saturday ; Stewed Rhubarb (May 
19th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Carefully preserve any remains of cod there may be. They can 
be scalloped for breakfast. 

2. Preserve the pigeon-bones and scrapings of the pie to make 
gravy for the savoury mince at luncheon to-morrow. 

3. Turn the beef, and turn and rub the pig's cheek. 



January 26tFi. 



Breakfast. 

Scalloped Cod. 

Pijr's Cheek. 

Toasted Teacakes. 

Brown aud White Bread aud 

Butter. 
Dry Toast. 
Bread and Milk. 



Luncheon. 

Savoury Meat Cake. 
Eggs stewed with Cheese. 



Dinner. 

Potato Puree. 

BoUed Leg of Mutton. 

Caper Sauce and Mashed 

Turnips, Carrots, and 

Potatoes. 
Roly-poly Pudding. 
Cheese. 



For the Day.— A well hvm^ 
Suet or Dripping for pud' 



Marketing. 

of Mutton, weighing about seven pounds ; 
g (June 25th) ; Turnips, Carrots, Potatoes. For 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 47 



Mutton, see January 8th. The best suet for puddinj? is the kidney fat of 

beef. 
For To-morrow.— Dried Haddock for breakfast. 

Breakfast. — Scalloped Cod. — Take auy remains tliere may be 
of the baked cod served on Sunday and of tbe stewed eels of 
Saturday. Break the flesh into little pieces, entirely free from skin 
and bone. Season with pepper and salt, and mix lightly in a 
si)oonfid of chopped parsley and a few drops of essence of anchovy ; 
moisten with a little melted butter or strong stock made of the bones 
of the cod. Butter haK a dozen scallop shells or deep oyster shells 
{8ee Marketing, January 2nd), and cover them with finely grated 
bread-crumbs. Divide the prepared fish into equal portions, one 
for each shell. Lay the fish upon the bread-crumbs, cover it again 
with bread-crumbs, and put little bits of butter here and there over 
the whole. Bake in a quick oven for a quarter of an hour or more, 
till the fish is hot and the crumbs brightly browned. Lay the shells 
on a hot dish covered with a napkin, and garnish with parsley. For 
another way, see January 7th. Pig's Cheek, boiled (January 22nd) ; 
Bread and Milk (January 25th) ; Teacakes (February 14th). 

Luncheon. — Savoury Meat CaJce. — Take all the scraps of meat 
left from the pigeon pie and from the steak, mince them finely 
with a large onion that has been boiled till tender. Take the same 
quantity by measure of finely grated bread-crumbs that there is of 
meat. jMoisten this with as much boiling stock as it will absorb, 
and mix all briskly together with a handful of meal, and pepper and 
salt to taste. Spread the mixture in a shallow dish well greased, 
lay little bits of dripping here and there on the top, and bake in a 
good oven. Serve with gravy made from pigeon-bones. Any kind 
of meat or fish, or a small portion of bullock's liver boiled and 
chopped small with the onions, may be used in this way, and 
will aff"ord an inexpensive and nourishing dish. Eggs stewed with 
Cheese (February 10th). 

Dinner. — Potato Puree. — Take the stock made of the rabbit- 
bones, Avith two pounds of potatoes, weighed after they have been 
peeled, a stick of celery, and the white part of two leeks ; if pre- 
ferred, two small onions may be used, but the leeks \\i\\ impart the 
more delicate flLivour. Shred all finely together. Melt a piece of 
butter about the size of a small egg in a stew-pan. Throw in the 
vegetal)les, cover them over, and let them sweat over the fire for a 
few minutes, being very careful that they do not get at all brown. 
Pour upon them a quart of the cold stock, and boil all gently 
together for about half an hour, till the vegetables are quite tender, 
then rub all through a fine hair-sieve. Put the pur^e into a clean 
stew-pan, and season it with salt. When it boils pour it into a hot 
soup tureen, and add half a pint of boiling cream, or milk if cream 
may not be afforded. Pick the leaves from two or three sprigs of 
parsley. Wash the herb in plenty of w^ater, chop it finely, then put 



48 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



it in tlie corner of a cloth, dip it into cold water, and wring it dry. 
This second washing lessens the acrid taste which parsley possesses. 
Sprinkle it into the hot soup and serve. When fresh chervil can be 
obtained, chervil is to be preferred to parsley. Boiled Leg of Mutton 
(February 23rd); Caper Sauce (March 19th); Mashed Turnips (Sep- 
tember 30th) ; Carrots, (July 6th) ; Potatoes (April 7th) ; Roly- 
poly Pudding (August 18th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Carefully preserve the stock in which the mutton was boiled. 

2. Turn and rub the pig's cheek. 

3. Boil the salted flank of beef according to the directions given 
in Kote 2, February 23rd, and put it under a weight. 

4. Put a cupful of hominy to soak all night in cold water. 



January 27th. 



Breakfast. 

Dried Haddock. 

Buttered Eggs. 

Hot Toast. 

Dry Toast. 

Brown and "White Bread and 

Butter. 
Boiled Hominy. 



Luncheon. 

ftracaroni and Bacon. 
Cornisli Pasties. 



Dinner. 

Six or eight Oysters ft* 

eacli person. 
Brown Bread, and Butter, 

with cut Lemon. 
Curried Mutton. 
Boiled Eice. 
Potatoes. 
Brussels Sprouts. 
Lemon Pudding. 
Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day. -Fresh Oysters. If natives may not be afforded, American or 
Portuguese oysters may be prociu-ed. The thin end of the Flank of Beef, not 
too fat, and weighing about ten pounds; Potatoes, Brussels Sprouts; six 
ounccd of beef Suet. 

For To-morrow.— Three pounds of the muscle of the leg of Beef. As the muscle 
which lies nearest the hoof is the portion required, it should be cutout whole, 
and will probably weigh from tv.'o to three pounds. Half a pouud of bacon in 
rashers. 



Breakfast. — Dried Haddock. — Either wash the haddock quickly 
and dry it, or nil:) it well mth a clean soft cloth. It is necessary to do 
this because a haddock is touched by a good many fingers — some of 
them jierhaps not very clean ones — before it is sent home to the 
customer. Gradually heat it through by laying it upon a gridiron 
over a slow clear fire. If preferred, toast it before the fire instead of 
broiling it. _ When done enough, put it skin downward.s upon a dish, 
and rub a little fresh butter over it just before sending it to table. 
Another way of preparing dried haddock is to lay it in a pie-dish that 
has been made liut by being rinsed with boiling water, pour more 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 49 



boiling water upon it to cover it, lay a plate on the dish to keep in 
the steam, and let it remain for five or ten minutes, according to the 
size. When hot throii^£,di it should be drained, laid on a dish, 
peppered, rubbed over with fresh butter, and served. If liked, a bay 
leaf, a little parsley, and a small sprig of thyme may be put into the 
water with it. When a haddock is prepared in this way care must be 
taken not to let it lie in the water too long, or it will acquire a sodden 
taste. Buttered Eggs (January 16th); Boiled Hominy (February 11th). 
liUNCHEOX. — Macaroni and BacGu. — Take the remains of the pig's 
cheek. It is probable that there waU be a portion which is scarcely 
fit to send to table. About two ounces of this may be taken for the 
macaroni, and the remainder can be used for breakfast. If none is 
left, one rasher of bacon, weighing about two ounces, may be used 
instead in each instance. Cut the bacon into small pieces. tYa,sh half 
a pound of Na])]es macaroni, break it up, and throw it into boiling 
water which has a lump of butter in it. Let it boil for twenty 
minutes, then throw the water away, and pour in its place a pint of 
nicely seasoned stock (February 13tli) ; let it boil till tender; when it 
is soft, ^dthout being broken, toss it lightly with a little pepper and 
salt and the chopped bacon, turn it upon a hot dish, and serve. The 
commoner the macaroni the more quickly it will be doi : 3 enough. Good 
macaroni, if covered A\dth stock, will take about half an hour ; it 
should, however, be looked at frequently, and on no account be 
allowed to get pulpy. Cornish pasties to be made of the broken 
remnants of mutton that cannot be taken oft' in slices for the curry 
(August 22nd). 

Dinner.— Curried Mutton (May 26th) ; Boiled Rice (July 21st) ; 
Potatoes (May 12th) ; Brussels Sprouts (June 4th) ; Lemon Pudding 
(August 12th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Boil the brine with an additional handful of salt, and lay the 
thin flank of beef in it. While the brine is being boiled, scald out the 
pan and dry it perfectly. 

2. Ptub and turn the pig's cheek. 

3. Trim and glaze the beef (March 21st). This dish wiU keep 
for two or three weeks in cold weather, and will be delicious to the 
last. It should be carved in thin slices. 

4. Prepare some bread-crumbs for breakfast to morrow. (JanuaiT 
2nd). ^ 

5. Put a breakfast-cupful of white haricot beans to soak in as 
much water as will cover them. 



so 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



Breakfast. 

Toasted Bacon. 
Scalloped Eggs. 
Buttered Toast. 
Dry Toast. 
Brown and Wliite 

and Butter. 
Fried Hominy. 



Bread 



January 28th, 

Luncheon. 

Pressed Beef. 
Endive Salad. 

Rice, with Stewed Apples 
and Beetroot. 



Dinner. 

Haricot Puree. 

Beef Stewed with Vesr- 

tables. 
Potatoes, Mashed. 
Custard Blancmange, 
Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day. — Endive ; Beetroot ; one pennyworth of small Salad ; Apples, 

Potatoes. 
For To-morrow.— Sheep's Kidneys, one for each person; Bacon, or not, as 

liked; a small Leg of Pork, one that Avill weigh seven or eight pounds (see 

January 6th) ; one tin of Sardines (see January 12th) ; one tin of preserved 

Peaches ; one pennyworth of Parsley, 



Beeakfast. — Scalloped Eggs. — Take about four table-spoonfuls 
of finely grated bread-crumbs, season them witli pepper and salt, and 
moisten them with gravy and a little milk or cream. Mince finely 
also the portion of pig's cheek which was put aside for the purpose 
{see Macaroni and Bacon, January 27th), and about a table-spoonful 
of parsley leaves. A small piece of onion may be added, if liked ; 
but it should be boiled before it is minced. Grease a small pie-dish, 
and line the bottom with the moistened crumbs, then sprinkle upon 
them the parsley and chopped bacon. Cover the dish, and put it in 
the oven, and let it remain until it is quite hot. ]\lean while, beat 
four eggs to a froth, and put with them a spoonfn.1 of melted butter, 
a spoonful of cream, and a little pepper and salt. Pour them gentlj?- 
upon the bacon, put the dish again into the oven without cover, and 
bake the eggs till they are set. They will take about five minutes. 
Serve very hot. If scallop-shells are at hand, they may be used 
instead of the pie-dish ; then the ingredients will have to be divided 
into equal portions, one for each shell ; and the shells maybe sent to 
table arranged on a dish, covered with a hot najjkin, and garnished 
with parsley. Toasted Bacon {see January 19th) ; Fried Hominy 
(February 12th). 

liUNCHEON, — Salad (March 13th). Eice with Stewed Apples and 
Beetroot. — Wash half a pound of rice, and put it into a saucepan 
with as much water or milk as will cover it. Let it boil gently 
till it is quite tender and has absorbed the liquor. If necessary, add 
a little more water or milk during the process of boiling. Whilst 
the rice is being cooked, put in another saucepan six large baking 
apples, peeled, cored, and sliced, six slices of beetroot a quarter of an 
inch thick, and as much water as will prevent burning. Simmer till 
the fruit is tender ; then sweeten to taste. Sweeten the rice, and 
flavour it with two or three drops o.f essence of almonds. Put it on 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



51 



a dish, and make a hole in the centre. Beat the apples till smooth, 
and put them in the hole in the rice. This is a pretty, inexpensive, 
and wholesome dish. Pressed Beef boiled (January 26th). 

Dinner.— Haricot Pur^e (March 9th) ; Stewed Beef with Vege- 
tables (March 17th) ; Mashed Potatoes (May 12th) ; Custard Blanc- 
mange (August 4th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Turn the beef in the brine. 

2. Turn and rub the pig's cheek. 

3. Be particularly carefid that the salad is dry before it is mixed. 



January 29th, 



Breakfast. 


Luncheon. 


Dinner. 


Sardines. 


Savoury Rice. 


Sole au Gratin. 


Broiled Kidneys. 


Baked Omelet. 


Roast Pork, with Apple 


Hot and Dry Toast. 




Sauce and Sage and Onion 


Marmalade. 




Stuffing. 


Brown and White Bread 




Browned Potatoes and 


and Butter. 




Cabbage. 


Porridge. 




Compote of Peaches from 

linned Fruit. 
Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— One large thick Sole [see January 3rd) ; Potatoes, Cabbage, 
Apples, Onions, Sage. 

For To-morrow.— One pint of split Peas, if these are not already in the house ; 
Kippered Salmon ; one Cow-heel from the tripe dealer ; two or three 
Muffins. Muffins are rather troublesome to make, and may be bought at a 
very cheap rate ; so they are not often made at home, excepting in country 
places. They are generally and rightly considered very indigestible ; yet 
some people are exceedingly fond of them, and will have them.. 



Breakfast. — Broiled Sheep's Kidneys are quite an epicure's dish, 
and also rather an expensive dish. They may be more economically 
prepared according to the recipes given (January 2nd and July 18th). 
When they are to be broiled, one will be required for each person. 
Pass a knife through each kidney from the rounded part, but do not 
quite separate the halves. Remove the skin and fat, and run a small 
metal or wooden skewer through the points and across the back, to 
keep them from curling up whilst they are broiling. Season them 
with pepper and salt, and oil them in every part. Lay them, the cut 
side downwards, upon a gridiron that has been made hot and rubbed 
over with mutton fat, over a bright, clear fire. At the end of four 
minutes turn them ; in as many more dish them. They will take 
from eight to ten minutes, according to the taste of the eaters. 
It is a very common fault to over-dress mutton kidneys, and thia 



52 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



makes them liard and indigestible. Even when wanted well done, 
they should always be cooked so that red gravy ^^dll run from them 
when they are cut. Have ready a little maitre dlwtel butter (April 
15th), about half a tea-spoonful for each kidney. Put the kidneys, 
the hollow side uppermost, on a very hot dish. Place the allotted 

Eortion of maitre d/hotel butter in each one, and serve quickly. A 
ttle toasted bacon will be found a great improvement to this dish. 
Sardines (January 12th) ; Porridge (January 2oth). 

LuNCHEOJf. — Savoury Rice (June 17th) ; Baked Omelet (August 
6th). 

Dinner. — Sole au Gratin (May 3rd) ; Roast Pork (March 4th) ; 
Apple Sauce (September 29th) ; Sage and Onion Stuffing (September 
29th) ; Goose Pudding, if liked (September 29th) ; Potatoes (May 
12th); Cabbage (June 4th); Compote of Peaches (April 11th); 
Cheese (June 8th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. As soon as the pork comes from the table, lift it upon a clean 
dish, and carefully preserve any gravy that may have run from it. 

2. Turn the beef, and rub the pig's cheek. 

3. If any sole is left, it may be made into fish cakes for breakfast ; 
and these will serve instead of the kippered salmon. {See January 
13th.) If the bones of the sole are not otherwise required, they may 
be stewed for an hour in as much water as will cover them ; and the 
stock thus made can be put mth the bones of the whiting to make 
fish stock for the lobster soup. 



January 30th, 



Breakfast. 


Luncheon. 


Dinner. 


Kippered Salmon or Fish 


Cow Heel, with Parsley 


Fried WTiiting. 


Cakes. 


Sauce. 


Shrimp Sauce. 


Pressed Beef. 


Stirabout Cheese. 


Pork Cutlets, with Apple 


Muffins. 




Sauce. 


Dry Toast. 




Colcannon. 


Honey. 




Baked Potatoes. 


Brown and "White Bread and 




Macaroni Pudding. 


Butter. 




Cheese. 


Bread and Milk. 







Marketing. 

For the Day.— Whiting, one for Ccach person [see Janxmry 17th) ; one pint of 
Shrimps : the shrimps mnst be very fresh ; one quart of Indian Meal. This 
meal is not kept by every corn factor, although it may generally be obtained by 
ordering. It docs not keep well, but is exceedingly wholesome and nourishing; 
Apples, Potatoes, Cabbage. 

For To-morrow.— Bloaters for each person (see Note, January 2nd); ask the 
butcher to send, first thing in the morning, a Sheep's Head, chopped half way 
through. Most butcliers kill on Friday, so that the head can be obtained 
perfectly fresh, which is most important. 



A YEAKS COOKEliY. 53 



Breakfast. — Kippered Salmon (Januaiy 9th) ; Fish Calces 
(January 13th) ; Beef boiled (January 26th) ; Bread and Milk 
(January 25th). Muffins. — Before toasting the muffins, slit them 
open with the fingers all round the edge to the depth of an inch ; 
hold them before a clear fire, and turn them eveiy minute till they 
are hot through. Tear them open, butter them liberally, put them 
on a hot plate, quarter them, and serve quickly. 

Luncheon. — Cow Heel, with Parsley Sauce (February 20th) ; 
Stirabout Cheese (August 1st). 

Dinner. — Fried Whiting (January I7th) — ShHmp Sauce. — Shell 
the shrimps quickly. Melt an ounce of butter in a small stew-pan, and 
mix smoothly with it half an ounce of flour. Beat it over the fire till 
smooth with the back of a wooden spoon, add a gill, or a quarter of a 
pint of cold water, and stir the sauce till it boils ; then add a pinch of 
cayenne, a few drops of anchovy, and half a gill of cream. Throw in 
the picked shrimps, and let them get hot through, but the sauce 
must not boil after they are added. If more convenient a gill and 
a half of water may be used instead of cream. 

Pork Cutlets, with A2)2^le Sauce. — Some people like pork better 
when it is cold than when it is hot. In tliis case it will be necessary 
only to put the meat on a clean dish, garnish it with parsley, and 
send it to table as it is. A little Brawn Sauce (January 15th) will 
doubtless be relished with it. If it is preferred that it should be 
re- dressed, cut the meat from the bone in neat slices, about a quarter 
of an inch thick. Prepare a tea-cupful of bread-crumbs, and season 
these with pepper, salt, a pinch of cayenne, and a very little gi'ated 
nutmeg. Partially dissolve, but do not oil, a slice of fresh butter, 
draw the slices of pork through the butter, cover them with the 
bread-crumbs, and place them in a tin dish ; mince a small onion 
finely, strew it over them, put a little butter on the top, and bake 
in a gentle oven till the onions are tender. Make a little good Apple 
Sauce (September 29th). Put it into the middle of a hot dish, 
arrange the cutlets neatly round it, and serve inmiediately. Col- 
cannon (August 11th) ; Baked Potatoes (May 4th); Macaroni Pudding 
(JMarch 27th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Turn and rub the pig's cheek ; turn the beef in the brine. 

2. Break up the bones of the leg of pork and stew them in stock 
(February 13th). This is for the pea soup for Feb. 2nd. 

3. If five or six whiting were used, the heads and bones may be 
used for fish stock. Cut up a carrot, an onion, and some celery. 
Fry in butter till lightly coloured, add the heads and bones of 
whiting, two anchovies, a pinch of herbs, two cloves, and two quarts 
of water. Stew gently and skim carefully till the liquor is reduced 
to three pints, then strain into a basin for use. 

4. Pjit six or eight Normandy pippins to soak in cold water. 



54 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



January 31st. 



Breakfast. 


Luncheon. 


Dinner. 


Bloaters. 


stew of Sheep's Head. 


Lobster Soup. 


Eggs ou the Dish. 


Normandy Pippins. 


Stewed Steak with Minoed 


Hot Buttered Toast. 




Vegetables. 


Dry Toast, 




Potatoes. 


Honey. 




Parson's Pudding. 


Brown and White Bread and 




Cheese. 


Butter. 






Corn Flour Milk. 







Marketing. 

For the Day.— Three pounds of tender Steak. {See Marketing, January 1st.) 
It should be cut evenly, and about one inch and a half thick. One tin of 
Preserved Lobster. For vegetables, see recipe January 31st. Potatoes. 

For To-morrow.— One large Capon (see that the giblets are sent home with 
the bird, and if possible procure an additional set) ; two pounds of best Pork 
Sausages (to be bought of a thoroughly respectable dealer) ; one tin of Potted 
Pheasant (Bovill's), {see January 7th); one pennyworth of Parsley; three 
heads of Celery for chicken salad. Potatoes; Broccoli. 



Breakfast. — Bloaters (January 3rd) ; Eggs on the Disli (De- 
cember 7th) ; Corn Flour Milk (June 19tli). 

Luncheon. — Shee2y's Head, Stewed. — Take out the brains of the 
sheep's head and throw them into cold water. Cleanse the head 
thoroughly. This is a most important and not particularly agreeable 
part of the business. The head should be washed in lukewarm 
water and with plenty of salt ; all the soft bones inside the head 
should be removed, and the blood and matter washed away from the 
nostrils, the throat, and the ears. The tongue also must be cut 
away, and the gums rubbed with salt. When finished the head 
must be laid in salted tepid water, and allowed to soak two hours. 
Take it out, drain it ; and in order that there may be no doubt about 
its cleanliness, put it into a saucepan with cold water slightly salted, 
bring it to a boil, then throw the water away. Tie the two halves 
of the head together in their original position, and put the head 
again to boil with two quarts of lukewarm water, a dessert-spoonful 
of salt, and a quarter of a tea-spoonful of pepper. At the same time 
put the tongue to boil in a separate saucepan, with strongly salted 
water, one clove, one peppercorn, and a few drops of vinegar. Skim 
the fat away as it rises, and let the head boil for an hour. At the end 
of this time put in two turnips, two carrots, three onions, three outer 
sticks of celery {see Note 2, January 1st), a bunch of parsley, and a 
sprig of thyme. Let the liquor boil up, put the lid again on the 
saucepan, draw it back, and let it simmer for one hour and a half. 
Wash the brains well in cold water, and remove the skin and fibres. 
Half an hour before the head is done enough put them with it into 
the saucepan, and let them boil for ten minutes. Whilst they are 
boiling mix smoothly together in a small saucepan over the tire a 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 65 



piece of good dripping or butter the size of a small kig^, and a dcsseit- 
spoonfid of fioiir. When thoroughly blended add gradually a quarter 
of a pint of the stock in which tlie head is being boiled. Take up 
the brains, cho}) them finely, aud put them with the sauce. Skin the 
tongue and trim it neatly. Put the head on a dish, with the tongue 
cut into halves. Mash the turnips, and put them in small heaps 
round the dish, with the carrot between the heaps. Serve very hot. 
If liked, the tongue and the brain sauce ^an be served on a separate 
dish, and either onion, caper, or parsley sauce may be poured over the 
head. Normandy Pippins (August 16th). 

Dinner. — Lobster Soup (May 20th). Stewed SteaJc. — Trim the steak, 
and cut away the skin and fat. Melt a slice of dripping or butter in 
a stew-pan, p^t in the steak, and when it is brown on one side turn 
it upon the other. ^ Whilst it is browning put a large table-spoonful 
of llour into a basin, with a salt- spoonful of salt, a salt-spoonful of 
pepper, half a grain of cayenne, and a tea-spoonful of freshly made 
mustard. Mix this very smoothly with a little cold water, and add 
very gradually a pint and a quarter of either water or stock. \^Tien 
the meat is brown pour the sauce over it. Procure a large carrot, a 
small turnip, an onion, and a stick of celery. Cut up the onion and 
celery {see Note 2, January 1st), aud put them with the meat. Scrape 
the carrot and peel the turnip, then cut the outer part of the two 
roots ilnto thin ribbons, and to do this peel them round and round 
with a sharp knife, very much as any one would do who was peeling 
an apple. Throw the inner portion left after peeKng into the sauce- 
pan with the steak. Stir the sauce occasionally, to keep it frum 
getting into lumps. When it boils draw it back a little, and let it 
simmer very gently for an hour and a half. Put the vegetable 
ribbons on a board, aud with a sharp knife shred them very finely, 
or, if preferred, cut them with a scoop into small balls. Boil them 
(each kind separately) until tender without being mashed, and drain 
them thoroughly. Cut the fat of the steak into small pieces, and 
bake it in a tin in the oven till it is brown and crisp. It is better 
not to stew the fat with the steak, because it makes the gravy 
greasy. Place the steak on a hot dish, and put the fat in a heap 
in the centre of it. Strain the gravy over it, aud throw away the 
vegetables that were stewed with the meat, because by this time 
they wiU be no good — all their flavour will have gone into the 
gravy. After draining the cut vegetables, place them in little heaps 
upon the steak, arranging them as prettily as possible. If any other 
vegetables are at hand they may be interspersed with the rest. Serve 
very hot. Potatoes (April 7th) ; Parson's Pudding (August 3rd) ; 
Cheese (June 8th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1, Boil the pig's cheek for breakfast. For directions how to boO 
it. see February 1st. 



56 A YEAR'S COOKERY. 

2. Turn the beef in the brine. 

3. Carefully preserve the sheep's head broth. 

4. Pastry is to be made to-day (April 17th) : one gooseberry pie, 
one plum pie (August 7th), both made of bottled fruit, tea-cakes 
(August 26th), sultana cake (August 2nd), baked custard tart 
(January 19th). 

5. Clean the giblets, scald them, and wash them in several waters, 
then put them in a cool place till the soup can be made. For 
directions, see Giblet Soup, February 1st. 



FRUITS IN SEASON SUITABLE FOR DESSERT 
IN JANUARY. 

Apples (Golden Knobs and Rennets) ; Oranges (St. Michael, Tan- 
gerine, and Malta); Bananas; Grapes; Melons; Pomeloes; Pears 
(for stewing) ; Shaddocks ; Nuts (Cobs, Filberts, Walnuts, Brazils, 
Almonds, Barcelonas) ; Raisins ; French Plums ; Figs ; Dates ; Crystal- 
lised Fruits ; Foreign Preserved Fruits. 



FEBRUARY. 



In February Seville oranges come into the market, therefore, 
about the latter end of February or some time in J\larch, marmalade 
should be made. The business should not be deferred too long, as' 
the oranges are best before they begin to shrivel. As marmalade, 
even of the best makers, is by no means equal to good home-made 
marmalade, it is worth while to make as much as will be wanted. 
The objection generally urged is that the process is so very trouble- 
some. The two recipes here given do not, however, involve an 
extraordinary amount of labour, and the result of each is excellent, 
having been proved and approved repeatedly. No. 2 has more 
consistency than No. 1, the latter being something like a golden 
jelly with a strong orange flavour. In No. 1, also, Seville oranges 
only are used. No. 2 can be made of sweet oranges only, or of a 
mixture of bitter and sweet fruit. In either case it is an improve- 
ment to put one lemon with each dozen oranges. 

No. 1. — Take any number of Se\dlle oranges of a medium size 
with dark smooth skins, and one lemon to each dozen oranges. 
Weigh them, then with a very sharp knife cut them into as thin 
slices as possible, removing the pips, but nothing' else. Put both 
juice and fruit into a large jar, and pour on two pints and a half of 
water to each pound of fruit. Let it stand all night. Next day 
turn it into a preserving pan and boil it till the rind is quite tender. 
In liome-made marmalade the rind is frequently hard. To prevent 
this it should be boiled till tender befure the sugar is put with it. 



A YEAR'S COOKERY, 



57 



It will take about two hours from the time it simmers equally all 
over. Remove it from the fire, and let it go cold, then weigh it 
again, and to each pound of stock put one pound and a half of loaf 
sugar. Boil again till the syrup will jelly, which will be in about 
twenty minutes. The addition of one or two lemons will greatly 
improve the flavour of this marmalade. 

No. 2. — Boil the oranges whole in plenty of water till they can 
be pierced quite easily with a pin. They vd]! take about three 
hours, but can scarcely be done too much. Peel the fruit, taking 
the skin in Large pieces, and preserving as much of the white as 
possible, and throw the skins into cold water. When all are peeled 
drain and put the skins to boil in plenty of cold water. As soon as 
they are on the point of boiling pour off the liquid and take fresh 
water, then boil for another hour, drain again thoroughly, and pre- 
serve the water. Bruise and squeeze the fruit to extract the juice, 
and throw the refuse into cold water. A pint will be sufficient for 
a dozen oranges. Just before it is wanted pour it through a jelly- 
bag, and preserve the liquid for making syrup. Lay the skin in 
folds, and cut it into thin shreds about an inch long. Measure the 
juice and weigh the shred peel, and to each pint of the former, as 
well as to each pound of the latter, allow a pound and a haK of loaf 
sugar, and a pint and a half of the liquid obtained from the squeezed 
fruit, the quantity being made up, if necessaiy, with the liquid in 
which the skins were last boiled. Boil sugar and liquid together 
for twenty minutes, add the juice, and boil again till the liquid 
forms a thick syi'up, being careful to remove the scum as it rises. 
Last of all, throw in the shred peel, and boil till the marmalade 
will jelly when a little is put on a plate. 



Sunday, February 1st. 



Breakfast. 


Dinner. 


Tea. 


Supper. 


Pig's Cheek. 


Giblet Soup. 


Brown and White 


Chicken Salad 


Potted Pheasant. 


A Large Capon, or 


Bread and Butter. 


(made of small 


Toast, Buttered and 


two Fowls Stuffed 


Greengage Jam. 


pieces left from 


Dried. 


Sausages. 


Sultana Cake. 


dinner). 


■Marmalade. 


Potatoes and Boiled 




Baked Custard Tart. 


3rown and WTiite 


Broccoli. 






Bread and Butter. 


Gooseberry Pie 






Milk Toast. 


made of Bottled 
Goosebei-ries. 

Cream if it may be 
allowed. 

Cheese. 







BiiEAKFAST. — A pig's cheek that had been dried after being pickled 
would need to lie in soak for awliile ; but if it were taken straight 
from pickle, as this would be, it would be necessary only to wash 
before cooking it. After washing put it into a saucepan, cover it 



58 A TEAKS COOKERY. 



with cold water, and let it boil gently till tender. In this instance 
the stock in which the pork bones were boiled may be used instead 
of water. A moderate-sized cheek taken straight out of the i^ickle 
would Jieed to boil gently for about two hours and a half ; a dried 
cheek half an hour longer. When done enough draw off the skin, 
shake bread-raspings over it through a strainer, and lightly cover it, 
and put it before the fire for five minutes or longer, till the crumbs 
are set. A pig's cheek boiled in this way is a very agreeable addi- 
tion to the breakfast table. Bread-raspings may be bought of the 
baker, a small bagful for twopence. These will need only to be 
crushed with a rolling-pin and passed through a fine wire sieve. Or 
they may be prepared at home, and bits of bread that would otherwise 
be w^asted may be used for the purpose. {See January 2nd.) W^®^^ 
wanted immediately pass stale crumb of bread through a wire sieve, 
and brown lightly in the oven. Potted Pheasant (January 7th) ; 
Milk Toast (June 17th). 

Dinner. — Gihlet Soiq). — Wash the giblets well in two or 
three waters, and scald them in boiling water, then scrape them till 
clean. Cut oft' the heads and throw them away ; skin the necks, 
which are sometimes very bloody, and divide each one into three 
pieces. Put the claws and the legs into boiling water, to loosen the 
outer skin, and draw this off entirely. The top skin of the gizzard 
nmst be cut through. There is a sort of pipe leading from one side 
to the other, and this must be cut from end to end. In cleaning 
the liver care must be taken not to break the gall-bag, or the soup 
will be made bitter. Divide the heart and liver into halves. Put 
the giblets into cold water, bring this to a boil, and throw the water 
away. Dry the giblets, and fry them in good batter or dripping 
till lightly browned, with two or three strips of bacon rind scalded 
and scraped, then throw them into cold water to free them from fat. 
Put them into a stew-pan with a large carrot, a leek, a small onion, 
a turnip, three or four outer sticks of celery, a bunch of parsley, 
a sprig of thyme, a bay leaf, a blade of mace, and two cloves. A 
sprig of basil and sweet marjoram may be added if liked, or half 
a tea-spoonful of savoury herbs may be used instead of the herbs 
named. These herbs may be brought ready mixed in bottles. Pour over 
aU about two quarts of stock made from bones. Bring this to a boil, 
skim it carefully, and boil it gently for two hours. Take out the 
giblets, and pick out such as will do to put into the soup ; trim them 
neatly, and put them aside. Throw the rest again into the stock, and 
boil for another hour. If thick giblet soup is wanted put a piece of 
brow^n thickening the size of a large a\ ;ilnut into a basin. Mix this 
with a little hot' stock to dissolve it, stir it into the soup, and keep 
stirring till it boils. Draw the saucepan back, and let it simmer 
gently' for twenty minutes to throw up the grease, and skim this 
carefully away. If brown thickening is not at hand a little may be 
made {see Roux, January 6th). Strain the soup into a hot tureen, 
add sDlt and cayenne to taste, and the pieces of giblets, and stir in 



A YEAKS COOKERY, 



half a tea-spoonful of lemon-juice and a glass of sherry. The latter 
may be omitted. Serve very hot. If clear giblet soup is wished 
it will have to be made earlier, to give time for clarifying it. To 
clarify Soup, see Julienne (April 9th) ; Capon stuffed with Veal 
Forcemeat (June 30th) ; Sausages (January 7th) ; Potatoes (April 
7th) ; Boiled Broccoli (April 25th) ; Fruit Pie (August 7th) ; Cheese 
(June 8th). 

Tea. — Sultana Cake (August 2nd). 

Supper. — Chicken Salad (August 30th); Baked Custard Tart 
(January 19th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. As soon as dinner is over pick away every morsel of meat 
from the chicken bones in as neat pieces as possible, and put them 
between two dishes, to keep them from getting dry. The chicken 
bones must be preserved ; they will make excellent soup. 

2. Put one pint of split peas to soak in as much water as will 
cover them, and throw away those that float — they are not good 

3. Peel and slice the potatoes for breakfast to-morrow [see 
February 2ncl). 

4. Turn and rub the thin flank of beef. 



Breakfast. 

Pressed Beef. 
Fried Potatoes. 
Buttered and Diy Toast. 
Brown and WMte Bread 

and Butte'* 
PoiTidge. 



February 2nd. 

Luncheon. 

Shepherd's Pie.made of the 
remains of Pressed Beef. 

Plum Pie, made on Satur- 
day, with a little milk. 



Dinner. 

Pease Soup. 
Kibs of Beef, Italian. 
Potatoes, Haricot Beans. 
Tinned Pine Apple, with 

Custard. 
Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— One Rib of Beef, taken from the middle ribs, boned, rolled, and 
weighing about four pounds ; or if preferred, a slice of tender Steak can be 
chosen, two inches tliick, and weighing about three poimds. (^See recipe 
below for the ingredients required.) One Tin Preserved Pine Apple; 
Potatoes. 



Beeakfast. — Fried Potatoes. — Take one good-sized potato for 
each person. Kidney potatoes are the best for the purpose. Peel 
and vvash them, and cut them the round way into slices, as thin as 
a shilling. As they are done, throw them into cold water, to free 
them from the potato flour. TJiey may, if liked, be prepared thus 
far over night. Put some fat into a saucepan and let it boil (Fried 
Fish, January 17th). Drain the potatoes, and dry them on a clean 
napkin ; put them, a few at a time, into a frying-basket, and plunge 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



them into the boiling fat. Let tliem remain till they are of a light 
brown colour. Turn them upon a dish covered with kitchen paper, 
let the fat again boil and put in another basketful of potatoes, and 
repeat until all are fried. Sprinkle salt and pepper over them, and 
serve. If a frying-basket is not at hand, the potatoes may be fried 
in the frying-pan, with enough fat to cover them completely. They 
must be done in sin^ie layers, and must be taken out carefully with 
a slice. If the fat is not boiling the potatoes will be greasy. Por- 
ridge (Januaiy 25th) ; Pressed Beef, left from January 30th. 

Luncheon. — Shepherd's Pie (January 12th) ; Plum Pie (August 
7th). 

Dinner. — Pease Soup (f oUow the directions given for making lentil 
soup, April 1st, substituting peas for lentils). Iiibs of Beef, Italian 
Fashion. — Put the rolled beef into a saucepan with a lump of drip- 
ping melted, and let it brown. When done upon one side, turn it to 
the other. Lift it up (of course being careful not to stick a fork into 
the fleshy part), and put it into a brown earthenware pan, not too 
large. Have ready a handful of parsley leaves, and the white part 
of two leeks cut into dice. Fry these in the fat in which the meat 
was browned, and when they are cooked without being at all burnt, 
drain them, and put them upon the beef. Add also two pickled 
gherkins chopped small, four cloves, and one or two outer sticks 
of celery cut into one-inch lengths. Pour over all a pint of the 
stock in which the chicken bones were stewed, and sprinkle a little 
pepper and salt over the meat. Cover the pan closely, and bake in 
a gentle oven for an hour and a half, then add a moderate-sized 
turnip and a carrot, cover again and bake for another hour. Take 
up the turnip and carrot ; cut them separately into dice, and toss 
them in a saucej^an over the fire with a small piece of butter. Put 
the meat on a hot dish, strain the gravy over it, and by way of 
garnish place the minced vegetables in Little heaps here and there 
upon it. Serve immediately upon hot plates. Potatoes (iMay 12th) ; 
Haricot Beans (June 20th) ; Pine Apple, tinned (April 8th) ; Custard 
(August 10th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Make a Semolina Mould for dinner to-morrow (Note 2, July 
23rd). 

2. Turn and rub the thin flank ol beel. 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



61 



Breakfast. 

Remains of Potted Phea- 
sant. 

Pig's Cheek. 

Hot Buttered and Dry 
Toast. 

Brown and White Bread 
and Butter. 

Bread and Milk. 



February 3rd. 

Luncheon. 

Rissoles (made of remains 

of beef). 
Baked Potatoes. 
Rice Boiled with Raisins. 



Dinner. 

Cod-fish Stuffed and Baked. 
Rabbit Pie. 
Potatoes. 
Stewed Celery. 
Semolina Mould- 
Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For tlie Day.— One moderate-sized and perfectly fresh Cod-fish, or if preferred, 
the tail end of a large fish (see January 1st and 6th). Ingredients for veal 
forcemeat, if not in the house (Jime 27th). One freshly killed young Ostend 
Rabbit (January 24th) ; a slice of Ham, weighing about three-quarters of a 
pound (January 3rd) ; Potatoes, Celery. 

For To-morrow.— Order to be sent first thing in the morning, from seven to 
eight pounds of the Top side of the Round of Beef. This is one of the most 
economical joints for family use, as it has not much fat, and very little bone. 
(See January 10th.) A fresh Leg of Pork may also be ordered, and pickled 
for boiling. (See Januarj' 6th. ) It is best and most delicate when weighing 
about four pounds, but if this is too small for the requirements of the 
family, it certainly should not weigh more than six poimds. To pickle it all 
that is necessary is to rub it every day with plenty of common salt, the hands 
being previously washed in cold water. Muffins for breakfast (see January 
29th> 

Breakfast. — Potted Pheasant (January 7tli) ; Pig's Cheek 
boiled (January 31st) ; Bread and Milk (January 25th). 

Luncheon. — Kissoles (January 6th) ; Baked Potatoes (May 4th). 
Rice Boiled ivith Raisins. — Take four ounces of good rice ; wash it in 
two or three waters, and pick out the discoloured grains. Mix it with 
a quarter of a pound of raisins, and tie in a well-floured cloth, leaving 
plenty of room for the rice to swell. If too much room is given the 
pudding will be watery, if too little it will be hard. Experience mil 
soon teach the cook the degree of looseness required. Put the 
pudding into a saucepan with plenty of cold water, bring it slowly 
to a boil, let it boil gently from an hour and a quarter to an hour 
and a half. Turn it out carefully, and send it to table with plain 
sweet sauce poured over it. If liked, one pound of baking apples 
cored and sliced can be used instead of the raisins. This is a 
palatable wholesome dish for nursery use. 

Dinner. — Cod-fish haked with Forcemeat. — Mince finely one 
ounce of the fat from the pig's cheek. Even if the cheek is nearly 
finished it is probable that this quantity can be picked from the 
bones. If cooked bacon-fat were not in the house, an ounce of finely 
shred beef suet could be used instead. Mix wdth the fat an equal 
quantity of finely grated bread- crimibs, and add half a tea-spoonful 
of chopped parsley, a very small pinch of dried thyme,* a few drops 
of the essence of anchovies, a little pepper and salt. Bind the force- 
meat together wi th a well-beaten egg. Make an incision down each 



62 A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



side of the "backbone of tlie fish, press the forcemeat in, and lay the 
fish in a tin baking-dish. Pour round it three-quarters of a pint of 
thin melted butter, which has been flavoured with anchovy and 
lemon-juice. Bake in a moderate oven till the flesh leaves the bone 
easily, and baste the fish frequently with the sauce. It will be done 
enough in about an hour ; remove it carefully to a hot dish, strain 
the sauce over it, sprinkle a few bread-raspings upon the top, and 
serve very hot. If preferred, the fish can be cooked according to the 
recipe given for Haddock Stuffed and Baked (September 4th). 
Rabbit Pie (September 11th) ; Potatoes (May 12th) ; Stewed Celery 
(December 2nd) ; Semolina Mould (Note 2, January 23rd) ; Cheese 
(June 8th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Carefully preserve any remains of cod-fish there may be, and 
make into fish cakes for breakfast {see January 13th) ; or prepare 
according to the recipe given January 7th. 

2. Make the hydropathic pudding for dinner to-morrow, and 
leave it in a cold place, with a weight on the top of it (June 16th). 

3. Strain the fat in which the rissoles are fried into a basin as 
soon as done with (February 19th). 

4. Boil the sheep's head broth. Soup can be made of it for 
Feb. 5th. 

5. Turn and rub the beef in the brine. 

6. Soak a cupful of green lentils in cold water. 



Breakfast. 



Fish Cakes. 
Savoury Eggs. 
Mufiins. 
Dry Toast. 



February 4th. 

Luncheon. | Dinner. 

Australian Mutton, coH, Smelts, 
with Pickles and Baked Top side of the Bound o! 
Potatoes. I Beef. 



Cake Pudding, made of 



Brown and White Bread broken bread, 

and Butter. 
Porridge. 



Yorkshire Pudding. 

Baked Potatoes. 

Lentils. 

Hydropathic Pudding. 

Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— One four-pound tin of Australian Mutton ; Smelts, one for each 
person and one over ; one pennyworth of Parsley. Smelts are delicious little 
fish, and are very generally used as a garnish for large fish, but they are very 
good served alone. They should be quite fresh, and when in this condition 
BmeU like cucumber. The bodies should be stitf and firm, the eyes bright, 
and the skin transparent. Potatoes. 

For To-morrow.— A lunch Tongue. Small tins are now sold about Is. 3d. each. 
They contain calves' tongues, and are excellent. A pennyworth of small 
Salad, and a bottle of Anchovies, if none are in the house. 

Breakfast. — Fish Cakes (January IStli) ; Savoury Eggs (January 
1st) ; Muffins (January 30th) ; Porridge (January 25th). 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 63 



Luncheon. — A%istralian Meat is at its best when served cold 
with pickles. It should be turned out of the tin very carefully, 
and the dripping that lies on it should be taken away, and will 
prove a valuable addition to the household stock of drip])ing to 
be used in cookery. When the ring dish that is made expressly 
for Australian meat is not at hand, the meat should be put upon 
an ordinary dish and garnished with parsley. The jelly should be 
preserved — it will make excellent gravy ; and in order that there 
may be no waste the tin should be rinsed with warm water for gravy. 
Baked Potatoes (^lay 4th). Gahe Pudding. — This pudding is both 
economical and wholesome, and is generally a favourite 'wdth the 
children. To make it, gather together a number of pieces of broken 
bread and put them into a bowl. Pour upon them as much boiling 
water as will cover them, put a plate upon the bowl, and let them 
soak until soft, then drain away the water. Beat them up Avith 
a fork until smooth, and take out any pieces that still remain doughy. 
Stir into the mass a good lump of dripping, a pinch of salt, a little 
grated nutmeg, moist sugar to taste, and a few picked and dried 
currants, or, if these are objected to, sultana raisins may be used. 
Grease a pie-dish, turn the mixture into it, and bake in a well -heated 
oven till the pudding is brightly browned on the top. A little jiim 
is a great improvement to this pudding, and wine sauce makes it 
seem very much better than it really is. It must not be drained 
too dry. 

Dinner. — Smelts. — Be particularly careful in cleaning these fish. 
Do not open them, but pull out the inside through the gills, and 
leave in the milt or roe, then wipe them lightly wdth a soft cloth, 
and dredge them with flour. Let them lie for an hour or two, then 
egg and bread them, or, if liked, simply dredge them once more with 
flour. Fry them till brightly browned, according to the directions 
already given for frying fish. {See January 17th.) The smelts may 
be neatly arranged, with the tails meeting in the centre of the dish, 
and with a wreath of fried parsley round them. It is very usual 
to serve them without sauce, but shrimp or anchovy sauce, and more 
than either, Tartar sauce, will be found to constitute a palatable 
accompaniment to them. If preferred, they may be baked instead 
of being fried. Top side of the round (March 4th) ; Yorkshire Pudding 
(December Srd) ; Baked Potatoes (May 4th) ; Lentils (March 2nd) ; 
Hydropathic Pudding (June 16th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. It is not likely that the whole of the Australian meat will be 
used. The remains must be carefully put away, and can be used for 
luncheon to-morrow. 

2. Turn and rub the leg of pork. 

3. Boil the stock made from the chicken bones. Very good soup 
may be made of it for Feb. 6th. 



64 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



4. Cleanse the small salad, and lay it on a cloth to dry ; also 
fillet the anchovies to be ready for breakfast, and put the fillets 
between two dishes. 

5. Turn and rub the beef in the brine. 



February 5lh. 



Breakfast. 

Ancbovies witli Hartl-ljoiled 

Eggs. 
Tongue. 

Buttered and Dry Toast. 
Honey. 
Brown and Wliite Bread 

and Butter. 
Milk Toast. 



Luncheon. 

Savoury Hasli of Australian 

Meat. 
Baked Batter Puddingr. 



Dinner. 

Parsnip Soup made of 
Sheep's Head Brotli. 

Cold Beef. 

Salad. 

Cutlets witli Piquanle 
Sauce. 

Fried Potatoes. 

Brussels Sprouts. 

Apple Gateau. 

Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— A Neck of Nutton ; Parsnips and Gherkins, if these are not (n 
the house ; Salad. The butcher should be asked to pare away as much of the 
fat from the mutton as he can. It is economical to buy the whole of the neck 
of mutton rather than the best end. The scras:? end can always be served 
separately. If asked to do so, the butcher will divide the cutlets. The best end 
of the neck wiU atford seven, three without bones and four with them. \i 
not Avanted im-7nediately, the neck should hang in a cool place. Potatoes, 
Brussels Sproutu, Apples, SpUt Peas. 

Breakfast. — Anchovies with hard-boiled eggs (January 18th); 
Lunch Tongue (January 2nd and 3rd) ; Milk Toast (June ITtli). 

Luncheon. — Savoury Hash of Australian Meat. — We will sup- 
pose there is a pound and a half of meat. Take a dessert-spoonful 
of chopped herbs, consisting of two-thirds parsley and one-third 
marjoram and thyme. Cut the meat into pieces convenient for 
serving, and sprinkle over each one a little pepper and salt, and a 
portion of the mixed herbs. Take half a pint of melted butter made 
of the jelly of the meat dissolved in stock or hot water, and thickened 
with a small nut of brown thickening ; and if this is not at hand, willi 
an ounce of butter and half an ounce of flour stirred over the fire 
together till brown. Let the gravy boil, then stir in two pickled 
gherkins finely minced. Put the meat into the gravy, and let it 
remain for five or six minutes till it is warmed through. Add a 
dessert-spoonful of Harvey or Worcester Sauce, and serve im- 
mediately. If the sauce is not sufficiently browned, a few drops of 
brown thickening may be added to it. 

Baked Batter Puddiiig.— Make. some batter according to the 
recipe given for batter in Toad in the Hole (January 15th). Grease 
a pie-dish and pour in the batter, and bake in a brisk oven. It will 
be done enough when the batter is set in the middle, and is coloured 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 65 



brightly, and will take about an hour and a half. It is usual to choose 
a dish that the batter will not quite fill, but the pudding will be more 
acceptable to many people if tlie batter is not more than three- 
quarters of an inch thick. Cold butter and sugar, or jam, may be 
served as accompaniments. A pleasing variety will be afforded by 
filling the dish half fuU of good baking apples cored and sliced before 
pouring the batter in. Or a thin layer of batter at the bottom of the 
dish may be first baked, and when it is set jam may be spread upon 
it, and the remainder of the batter poured upon this. 

Dinner. — Parsnip Soup (December 3rd) ; Beef — top side of the 
round left yesterday; Salad (March 13th); Cutlets, to be taken 
from the best end of the neck, with Piquant Sauce (April 30th); 
Potatoes (February 2nd) ; Brussels Sprouts (June 4th) ; Apple Gateau 
(September 24th); Cheese (June 8th). 

Things that must not be 'Forgotten. 

1. Turn and rub the leg of pork, 

2. On no account let the Australian meat hoil in the gravy. It is 
already rather over-cooked, and needs only to be warmed through. 

3. Make rissoles- for breakfast in the morning with the remains 
of the cold beef. {See January 6th.) 

4. Put two table-spoonfuls of tapioca in a basin with a pint of 
water to soak all night. 

5. Turn and rub the beef in the brine. 

6. Put a cupfiU of peas to soak all night in cold water. 



February 6th. 

Breakfast. Luncheon. I Dinner. 

Rissoles. j Stewed Giblets. Gravy Soup made of Stocfe 

Poached Eggs. Jam and Bread Pudding from Cliicken Bones. 



Hot Buttered and Dry 

Toast. 
Lemon Marmalade. 
Porridge, 



Boiled Pork. 
Pease Pudding. 
Cabbage and Potatoes. 
Tapioca and Apples. 
Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— Two sets of Chickens' or Ducks' Giblets (fresh). These may 
probably be procured for a few pence. The giblets consist of the head, neck, 
feet, gizzard, and liver of the birds. The whole or part of a large fresh Ox- 
cheek ; Cabbage, Potatoes, Apples. 

For To-morrow.— A tin of preserved Prawns. These prawns offer a pleasant 
variety for breakfast. They are economical because not very much can be 
used at once; and besides being used as a relish, they are useful for 
garnishing dishes ; or two or three chopped small and added to melted 
butter will make a good sauce for fish. The price at the present time is 
one shilling per tin. 



Breakfast. — Rissoles (January 6th). Poached Eggs. — Have 
ready a wide saucepan or frying-pan with gently boiling water, into 

F 



66 A YEAR'S COOKERY. 

wliicli a pincli of salt and a table-spoonful of vinegar have been 
thrown. Break the eggs separately into a ciip, and slip them one at 
a time carefully into the water. They must be kept apart, and there 
must be enough water to cover them. Keep the pan at the side of 
the stove, and on no account let the water boil_ fast, or the eggs wiU 
break. When the white is set, and the yoke is seen through a thin 
white covering, the eggs are done enough. Take them up carefully 
with an egg-slice, and be sure to drain them well. The vinegar in 
the water will make the eggs white, but if they are not drained 
thoroughly it will give them an acid taste. Trim away the loose 
untidy pieces of white that may hang about the eggs, and dish them 
either on a separate dish or, if preferred, with the rissoles. For 
Porridge, see January 25th. 

Luncheon. — Steioed Giblets. — Clean the giblets according to the 
directions already given (February 1st). When thoroughly washed, 
dry them well and roll them in dour. Put the gizzards and feet into 
a saucepan \vTLth half a pint of water or stock, and six peppercorns. 
Let them stew gently for three-quarters of an hour, then add the 
rest of the giblets, another pint of water, a small onion stuck with 
one clove, the red part of a large carrot scraped to pulp, a bunch of 
parsley, a sprig of thyme, a bay-leaf, and a stick of celery ; stew for 
an hour and a haK longer. Take out the herbs; put the giblets upon 
a dish: if necessary, add a little liquid browning to it, and serve very 
hot. This is an inexpensive, nourishing and appetising dish. For 
Browning, see January 2nd; Jam and Bread with Milk (February 
23rd). 

Dinner.— Gravy Soup (August 31st) ; Boiled Pork (February 
23rd) ; Pease Pudding (December 4th) ; Cabbages (June 4th); 
Potatoes (April 7th) ; Tapioca and Apples (February 18th) ; Cheese 
(June 8th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten, 

1. Wash one pound of prunes and throw away the water. Put 
them into a basin A\4th as much water as will cover them, and leave 
them to soak all night. 

2. Pastry is to be made to-day (April 17th) — cheese-cakes (Au- 
gust 18th), a few jam tartlets and a rhubarb pie (August 7th), 
Vienna bread (August 26th), rice cake (August 2nd). 

3. Roll tightly and boil the beef (February 23rd). Put it under 
a weight. 

4. Boil the brine with an additional handful of salt. See Brine 
(January 13th). 

5. Sprinkle a little salt on the cheek and leave it for two or three 
hours. Wash it thoroughly with plenty of salt, and take away the 
soft bone where the slime lodges. Wash it again and wipe it dry, 
and put it into the brine when this is cold. 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



67 



February 7th. 



Breakfast. 


Luncheon. 


Dinner. 


Tinned Prawns. 


Poor Man's Goose. 


Cabbage Soup. 


Cold Pork, witli Brawn 


Semolina Mould. 


Curried Eabbit. 


Sluice. 




Boiled Rice. 


Hot Buttered Toast. 




Potatoes. 


Vienna Bread. 




Stewed Endive. 


Brown and VVliite Bread 




Stewed Prunes. 


and Butter. 




Custard. 


Damson Jam. 




Cheese. 


Bread and Milk. 







Marketing. 

For the Day.— The Fry of a small Pig, about one and a half pounds. This must 
be perfectly fresh, or it will not be good. One good-sized Ostend Rabbit, to 
weigh about thi'ee and a half pounds ; a fine young Cabbage, with a good 
heart, for soup; Potatoes, Endive. 

For To-morrow.— One good-sized BriU {see January 9th) ; two fine Fowls, 
trussed for boiling ; three heads of Celery. Fowls will be very dear soon, 
therefore it will be well to have a couple while they are still to be had at a 
reasonable price. Fowls for boiling should have small but not black leg.'-, 
and the flesh should be as white as possible. One pound of Bacon, cut into 
thin rashers {see Bacon, January 3rd) ; two Bataviau Endives ; a small Beet- 
root ; one-pennyworth of Parsley ; quarter of a pint of picked Shrimps ; three- 
pennyworth of fresh Cream ; a couple of fresh unsalted Pig's Feet, ready 
cleaned by the butcher. The feet of large pigs will be better than those of 
small ones. .^ 

BuEAKFAST. — Tinned Prawns. — The prawns are contained in a 
bag inside the tin. Take them out carefully, and arrange the iDrawns 
on a dish covered with a hsh paper, and garnish with parsley. They 
look very pretty piled in a pyramid shape, and, if liked, a lemon or 
a piece of bread may be put in the midst of them to support them in 
their position. Pork, left yesterday; Brawn Sauce (January 15th); 
Vienna Bread, made yesterday ; Bread and Milk (January 25th). 

Luncheon. — Pig's Fry, or Poor Man^s Goose. — Scrub and wash 
well three pounds of potatoes. Put them into a saucepan with as 
much cold water as wlQ cover them, and bring the water to a boil. 
Take the potatoes up, peel them, and cut them into slices a quarter 
of an inch thick. Boil also a Spanish onion, and mince it finely, 
Mix together a tea-spoonful of salt, two salt-spoonfuls of pepper, and 
a tea-spoonful of dried sage. Wash and dry the fry, cut each part 
into moderately thin slices, and sprinkle a little of the seasoning over 
each slice. Grease a pie-dish, and fill it with alternate layers of 
potato and fry, being careful that potatoes shall constitute the first 
and the last layers. Fill the dish with stock or water, and lay a 
greased paper over the top, then bake in a moderate oven for about 
an hour and a half. If liked, a httle Apple Sauce can accompany 
this dish. Semolina Mould (July 23rd). 

Dinner. — Cabbage Soup. — Wash and trim the cabbage, shred it 
finely, and cut the shreds across, to shorten the filaments. Throw 
these into a quart of boiling water, and let them boil till tender. 
Put with them a quart of the Uquor in which the pork was boiled, 



38 



A YEAKS COOKERY . 



add pepper and salt, and a good-sized lump of sugar ; boil together 
and serve very hot. The soup ought to be thick with the shred 
cabbage. Curried Eabbit (July 16th) ; Boiled Eice (July 21st) ; 
Potatoes (May 12th); Stewed Endive (December 5th) ; Stewed Prunes 
(February 2Vth) ; Custard (August lOth) ; Cheese (June 8th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Sprinkle a little salt on he brill before putting it in the larder. 

2. Take up the weights from the beef ; trim and glaze it. The 
liquor in which it was boiled can be made into glaze (March 21st). 

3. Prepare the pig's feet for breakfast to-morrow. To do this 
wash them well in boiling water, and scrape off any hairs that may 
be left on. Put them into a saucepan with as much cold water as 
will cover them, and add an onion stuck with two cloves, a carrot, 
a little salt, six peppercorns, and a bay-leaf. Let the saucepan 
stand by the side of the fire, and keep the feet simmering gently 
till the bones can be drawn out easily. They will need to simmer 
nearly all day. ^Vhen done enough, split each one in halves, bone 
them, and let tliem_ get cold. Melt a little butter in a plate, pass 
each half through it, and cover with fine and perfectly dry bread- 
crumbs. In the evening when the fire is low, put the feet on a 
gridiron, place them over the fire, turn them occasionally, and let 
them remain until they are hot through and brightly browned. 
When cold they are ready for use, and will constitute a pleasant 
variety as a breakfast dish. Brawn Sauce may be served with them 
(January 15th). They should be neatly arranged on a dish covered 
with a napkin, and garnished with parsley. If quickly boiled the 
meat mil be hard and indigestible. The preparation of this dish 
requires time rather than trouble. 

4. If rice milk is to be used for breakfast instead of oatmeal 
porridge, partially prepare it over-night. (Note 3, June 17th.) 

5. Turn and rub the ox-cheek. 



s 


unday, February 8th. 


Breakfast. 


Dinner. 


Tea. 


Supper. 


Ham-ciired. Her- 


Brill, with Neapoli- 


Brown and White 


EoUed Beef. 


. rings. 


tan Sauce. 


Bread and Butter. 


Salad. 


Pig's feet, with 


Boiled Fowls, with 


Greengage Jam. 


Ehubarb Pie. 


Brawn Sauce. 


Egg Sauce. 


Eice Cake. 


Cheese. 


Vienna Bread. 


Toasted Bacon. 






Marmalade. 


Potatoes. 






Brown and White 


Stewed Celery. 






Bread and Butter. 


Jam Tartlets. 






Eice Milk. 


Stone Cream. 
Cheese. 







Beeakf AST.— Ham-cured Herrings (January 15th) ; Pig's Feet 
(Note 3, February 7th) j Brawn Sauce (January "i5th) ; Vienna Bread 
(August 26th) ; Rice Milk (June 18th). 



A YEAKS COOKERY. 



m 



Dinner. — BHll. — Boil the brill according to the directions already 
given in January 9th. If liked, Neapolitan Sauce can be served 
with it, instead of any of the sauces mentioned there. To make 
this sauce, put into.asmaL enamelled saucepan four shalots finely 
minced, a dessert-spoonful of bruised capers, five or six peppercorns, 
and the juice of a lemon. Stir these ingredients over the fire for 
three or four minutes, then add a cupful of stock made from bones, 
a pinch of cayenne, a small clove, half a bay-leaf, a small piece of 
mace, not quite half a blade. Simmer gently for twenty minutes, 
and pour out till cool. When it is wanted dissolve a piece of butter 
about the size of an egg in a separate stewpan. Mix with it over 
the fire a dessert-spoonful of flour, and work the paste with the back 
of a wooden spoon till quite smooth ; add the cooled liquor, and 
stir the sauce till it boils. Strain it, put it again into the saucepan, 
and let it boil, lift it from the fire, put in the shrimps, and stir in 
the cream. Add a few drops of anchovy essence, and, if liked, a few 
drops of lemon-juice, and serve immediately. Boiled Fowl, with 
Egg Sauce (September 6th) j Toasted Bacon (January 19th) ; Potatoes 
(May 6th) ; Stewed Celery (December 2nd) ; Jam Tartlets (August 
7th) ; Stone Cream (July 1st); Cheese (June 8th). 

Tea.— Eice Cake (August 2nd). 

Supper.— Rolled Beef, boiled on Feb. 6th ; Salad (March 13th) ; 
Fruit Pie (August 7th). ^ 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Be sure to take care of the bacon-rind (Januaiy 1st and Note 2, 
January 5th). 

2. Take care of the liquor the fowls were boiled in, and stew their 
bones in it for two or three hours. 

3. Preserve the stock in which the fish was boiled. 

4. Turn and rub the ox-cheek. 



February 9th 



Breakfast. 

Remains of Tmned Prawns 

(see Note 3 below) . 
Remains of Pig's Feet. 
Bro.wn Sauce. 
Hot Btittered Toast. 
Dry Toast. 
Watercress. 
Brown and "WTiite Bread and 

Butter. 
Porridge. 



Luncheon. 

RoUed Beef. 

Pickled Walnuts. 

Baked Potatoes and a little 

cold Butter. 
Baked Api)les with Sugar. 



Dinner. 

Victoria Soup (made oi 

chicken stock). 
Beef Olives. 
Potatoes. 
Cabbage. 
Golden Pudding. 
Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— Three pounds of tender Steak (see January 1st) ; half a pound 
of Beef Suet for the golden pudding ; or good dripping may be used instead. 



70 A YEARS COOKERY. 



For To-morrow.— A whole Scrag of Mutton. According to the usual method of 
cutting up sheep, the neck is divided into two halves. Get the hutcher to 
leave the part near the head whole. It will furnish an excellent and 
economical joint, weighing about three pounds. The meat must be perfectly 
fresh. One tin of preserved Tomatoes ; a bundle of dried Sprats ; half a dozen 
Muffins. 

BPtEAKFAST.— Tinned Prawns {see February 7tli); Pig's Feet 
(February 7th) ; BrawTi Sauce (January 15tli) ; Porridge (January 
25tli). 

Luncheon.— Beef, Boiled (February 6th). Baked Apples. — Take 
some good baking apples, one for each person and one or two over. 
Wipe them thoroughly, and -without paring them put them side by 
side in a shallow earthenware dish, not to touch each other. Put 
them into a cool oven and let them bake as gently and slowly as 
possible until cooked throughout. Take up, put them on a dish, and 
let them get cold. Before serving sift white sugar thickly over them. 
Baked Potatoes (May 4th). 

Dinner. — Victoria Soup, made of the liquor the chickens and the 
bones were boiled in, with bacon-rind. Take about three pints of the 
liquor in which the fowls were boiled. Put this in a stewpan with 
the crushed bones and remnants of the birds, two or three strips of 
bacon-rind, scalded and scraped (the remainder will be needed for 
the Tomato Pur6e to-morrow), an onion, two outer sticks of celery, 
or, wanting these, -as much celery seed as would lie on a three- 

f)enny piece (the seed must be tied in muslin), a small carrot, a bay- 
eaf, six peppercorns, a bunch of parsley, a sprig of th^nne, and three 
ounces of good rice that has been washed in two or three waters. 
Place the stewpan bj the side of the fire and let its contents simmer 
very gently for about an hour and a half till the rice is tender. Take 
it up, remove the bones and vegetables from the liquor, and rub 
the rice patiently through a fine hair sieve. Half an hour before it 
is to be served boil it once more, season it with a sufficiency of salt, 
pour it into the hot soup tureen, and stir into it a pint of boiling 
milk. If cream may be afi'orded the soup will, of course, be so much 
the better, but it will be very good and delicate made with milk. 
Fried bread may be sent to table on a separate dish. Beef Olives 
(September 5th) ; Potatoes (May 4th) ; Cabbage (June 4th) ; Golden 
Pudding (May 4th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Turn and rub the ox-cheek. 

2. When making the soup, preserve about half of the liquor for 
the stewed mutton to-morrow— it will be better than water. 

3. If any of the briU were left it may be served for breakfast 
instead of the prawns, which could then be used another day {sec 
Fish Caljes, January 13th). 



A YEAIVS COOKERY. Ti 



Breakfast. 



Dried Sprats. 

Rolled Beef. 

Honey. 

Hot Toast. 

Mufl&ns, 

Brown and White Bread and 

Butter. 
Bread and Milk. 



February lOth. 

I 



Luncheon. I Dinner 



Eissoles (made of remains of Tomato Pur^e. 

rolled beef). ' Stewed Mutton witli veget- 

Eggs stewed with Cheese, i ables. 

BroccoK. 

Potatoes. 

Piquant Sauce. 

The Guest's Pudding. 

Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— Capers and a quarter of a pound of Suet, if these are not in the 
house. Beef kidney suet is the best. It should be perfectly sweet and firm to 
the touch. Potatoes, Broccoli. 

For To-morrov/.— Four pounds of the Fillet of the Rump of Beef (see 
Marketing, January 2nd) ; a bag of Hominy. Hominy is beginning to be 
much used in England. Three sizes are sold; the middle size is the best. 
It furnishes excellent, nourishing, and inexpensive food. Dried Pears. 

Breakfast. — Dried Sprats (February 28th) ; Rolled Beef, 
Boiled (February 6tli) ; Muffins (January SOth) ;. Bread and Milk 
(January 25th). 

Luncheon. — Rissoles (January 6th). Eggs stewed with Cheese.-^ 
Melt an ounce of butter or sweet dripping in a saucepan over the 
fire. Take some eggs — one for each person ; break them separately 
into a cup, and turn them carefully into the pan, and do not let 
them touch each other. Sprinkle a little pepper and salt upon 
them ; and when they are just set firm, lift them upon a dish with 
an egg slice ; lay very thin slices of soft cheese upon them, and 
put the dish before the fire till the cheese is melted. Serve very 
not with brown bread and butter, and toasted bread as an accom- 
paniment. 

Dinner. — Tomato Pur^e (March 11th). Stewed Mutton with 
Vegetables. — Wash the joint quickly in cold water, dry it with a soft 
cloth, pepper and salt it, and dredge flour over it. Melt a large 
lump of dripping in a good-sized stewpan ; put in the meat, and 
when it is brown upon one side turn it to the other. Take it up ; 
put it into another stewpan, and pour over it as much boiling stock 
as will barely cover it. Let the stock boil up, then put ^dth it three 
onions, three carrots, three turnips, and a sprig of parsley ; place the 
lid on the saucepan and draw it back, and let its contents simmer 
very gently indeed for fully four hours. It should be looked at 
occasionally, and the vegetables should be taken out as soon as they 
are done enough. If allowed to simmer after they are done their flavour 
will go into the gravy, and this is not desirable, as they are to be 
served with the meat. When the mutton is perfectly tender pour the 
gravy from it ; put the liquor in a cold place to make the fat rise 
to the surface. Skim this off entirely, and thicken about a pint of 
the gravy with a little brown thickening {see January 6th). Strain it 



72 



A YEARS COOKERY. 



again over the mutton and let it stew very gently till the meat is 
once more hot through. Meantime, mince the vegetables stewed 
with the meat and saut6 them — that is, shake them for three or fonr 
minutes over the fire in a small saucepan with a piece of butter. 
Put the mutton on a dish, strain part of the sauce over it, and 
arrange the minced vegetables as a sort of wall round it. Chop three 
pickled gherkins finely ; put them with the remainder of the sauce 
and send this to table in a tureen. The meat should be cut off the 
bone in long slices. For a similar method, see January 14th. Potatoes 
(May 12th) ; Broccoli (April 25th) ; Guest's Pudding (April 14th) ; 
Cheese (June 8th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Brush the fillet of beef over with vinegar, sprinkle pepper and 
salt over it, and hang it in a cool larder. 

2. Turn and rub the ox-cheek in the brine. 

3. Wash a tea-cupfid of the hominy in plenty of water and rub it 
between the hands. Remove the grains that rise to the surface ; they 
are not good. "Wash it again in one or two waters ; drain it and let 
it soak till morning in a quart of water. A cover should be put over 
the dish which contains it. 

4. Put half a pound of dried pears or Normandy pippins to soak 
all night. 



February Nth, 



Breakfast: 


Luncheon. 


Dinner. 


Hominy. 


Liver and Bacon. 


Soles, filleted and rolled, 
with Maitre - d' Hotel 


Ox-eyes. 


Stewed Pears (di-ied like 


Hot Buttered Toast. 


Normandy Pippins). 


Sauce. 


Dry Toast. 




Eoast Fillet of Beef. 


Brown and White Bread 




Potatoes. 


and Butter. 




Broccoli. 


Marmalade. 




Lfeche Crfemo. 


(The hominy will take the 




Cheese. 


place of the porridge.) 







Marketing. 

For the Day.— One pound and a half of fresh Liver ; one pound of Streaky 
Bacon, cut into rashers ; half of this is for to-day, and half for to-morrow 
{see Marketing, January 3rd) ; a pair of moderate-sized but thick Soles (see 
January 3rd) ; half a pound of Ratafias ; a pennyworth of Parsley. 

For To-morrow.— Four Sheep's Kidneys, fine, plump, and perfectly fresh ; a 
well-kept Leg of Mutton (see January 8th). 



Breakfast. — Boiled Hominy. — As soon as the kitchen fire is 
lighted put a tea-spoonfiil of salt into the water with the hominy, and 
put it with the water in which it was soaked into a stewpan, and set 
it by the side of the fire to simmer gently. If there is any difficulty 
about cooking it over a gentle heat it will be safer to put it in a jar, 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



73 



and set this in a kettle of boiling water, for if allowed to boil quickly 
it will burn. It y/ili be done enough in about an hour ; when it has 
absorbed the liquid, it should be well stirred, turned into a dish, and 
eaten either with fresh butter, or melted butter sauce, or with sugar 
like rice. It is a good plan to make rather more than is wanted for 
the day, and what is left can be fried for breakfast to-morrow, or can 
be made into a cake. Ox-eyes (June 5th). 

LuNCHEOX. — Liver and Bacon (January 17th); Stewed Pears 
(same as Normandy Pippins, August 16th). 

Dinner.— Soles, filleted and rolled, with Maitre-d'Hotel Sauce 
(March 1st). Roast Fillet of Beef. — Bind a slice of fat bacon over 
the underside of the joint of beef, and roast it gently (March 4th). 
It should be underdone rather than otherwise ; pour round it good 
brown gravy thickened with roux to the consistency of cream. It 
is probable that a little gravy was left from the mutton yesterday, 
and this mixed with the gravy that runs from the meat will answer 
the purpose admirably. Potatoes (May 4th) ; Broccoli (April 25th) ; 
Leclie Creme (May 7th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 



Things that raust not be Forgotten. 

1. Take care of the bacon-rind. 

2. Cut the shank bone off the leg of mutton and stew it at once 
for gravy. {See Note 3, January 8th.) 

3. Turn and rub the ox-cheek. 

4. Wash a cupful of haricot beans and put them to soak in plenty 
of cold water. 

5. Make stock from fresh bones for the ox-tail soup on Feb. 13. 
{See February 13th.) 



February 12th, 



Breakfast. 


Luncheon. 


Dinner. 


Fried Hominy. 


Shepherd's Pie (made of 


Skate with Brown Butter. 


Kidneys and Bacon. 


remains of cold Beef). 


Roast Leg of Mutton. 


Hot Buttered Toast. 


Plain Rice Pudding without 


Yorkshire Pudding. 


Dry Toast. 


Eggs. 


Potatoes. 


Brown and Wiiite Bread 




Jerusalem Artichokes. 


and Butter. 




Haricot Beans. 


Marmalade. 




Vermicelli Pudding. 


(The hominy will take the 




Cheese. 


place of the pon-idge. ) 







Marketing. 

For the Day.— Two pounds of crimped Skate (January 10th) ; Potatoes, Arti- 
chokes. 

For To-morrow.— An Ox-tail ; a tin of Collared Tongue {see January 2nd, Note, 
January 3rd ; also Marketing, February 4th) ; one di-ied Haddock ; Water- 



74 A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



Breakfast. — Fried Hominy. — The cold hominy will be quite finn. 
Cut it into thick slices, flour these, and lightljr brush them over with 
the yolk of an e.gg. Fry them in hot fat, drain on paper, and serve 
hot. The hominy will be an agreeable accompaniment to the kidneys 
and bacon. Kidneys and Bacon {see January 2nd). 

Luncheon. — Shepherd's Pie (January 12th); Plain Rice Pudding 
(February 24th). 

DiNNEPw — STcate ivith Broivn Butter. — Wash the skate and put it 
into a saucepan with as much cold water as will barely cover it, and 
add salt and a little \dnegar. Let the water boil, skim it, draw the 
saucepan to the side of the fire, and simmer gently for about ten 
minutes. Five minutes before the fish is done enough, put the liver 
into the pan and boil it also. Take up the fish, drain it, put a little 
of the liver at each end ; have ready a little brown butter sauce, pour 
it over the fish, and serve immediately. It will be a great improve- 
ment to the appearance of the dish if a few sprigs of fried parsley are 
piled in the centre. To make the Brown Butter Sauce, put a good 
slice of fresh butter, from two to three ounces, into an omelet pan, 
and stir it over a quick fire till it is brown without being burnt. 
Skim off the froth, add salt and pepper, and take the butter from the 
fire. Boil a wine-glassful of vinegar very quickly till it is reduced to 
a table-spoonful. Mix the brown butter with this, and the sauce is 
ready. Common butter will do as well for this sauce as the best 
butter, as the fresh flavour is destroyed in cooking ; sometimes haU 
tarragon vinegar and half plain vinegar are used. Skate prepared 
thus tastes better than it looks. It is a great favourite with epicures. 
Ptoast Leg of ]\Iutton (March 4th) ; Yorkshire Pudding (November 
26th) ; Potatoes (April 7th) ; Jerusalem Artichokes (November 30th) ; 
Haricot Beans (June 20th); Vermicelli Pudding (August 1st); Cheese 
(June 8th). _ 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Turn and rub the ox-cheek. 

2. Preserve any gravy there may be left from the kidneys, to put 
with the liquor from the shank for gravy for the leg of mutton. 

3. As soon as the leg of mutton comes from the table put it away 
on a clean dish, and carefully preserve any gravy that may be left. 
If it is to be eaten cold to-morrow it should be carved neatly, or it 
will have a very unsightly appearance. 

4. If any hominy still remain, keep it to make a hominy cake to 
morrow. 



A YEARS COOKERY. 



75 



February 13th. 



Breakfast. 


' Luncheon. 


Dinner. 


Dried Haddock. 


Tripe and Onion Sauce. 


Ox Tail Soup. Stock made 


Collared Tongue. 


Plain Suet Pudding with 


from fresh, bones. 


Hot Buttered Toast. 


Jam, Treacle, or, if pre- 


Cold Mutton. (If tliis is 


Dry Toast. 


ferred, Gravy. 


objected to the mutton 


Brown and Wlnte Bread 




may be re-dressed. For 


and Butter. 




various Y/ays see Index. ) 


Watercress. 




Baked Potatoes. 


Porridge. 




Salad of Haricot Beans and 

Lettuce. 
Cottage Pliun Pudding. 
Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For tlie Day.— One pound and a half of fresh tiipe, as thick and white as can 
be procured. Salad : Two Lettuces, half an Eindive, a halfpennj-^vorth of 
Mustard and Cress, a halfpennyworth of boiled Beet-root. Suet if not in the 
house, or good dripping may be used instead. From ten to twelve pounds of 
the thin end of the Flank of Beef. Ask the butcher to supply a piece with as 
little fat as possible. Potatoes. 

For To-morrow.— Half a pound of Bacon, if this is not in the house. One dressed 
Cow-heel for Beef k la Mode. One pennyworth of Mustard and Cress. 



Beeakfast. — Collared Tongue (Note, January 3rd) ; Dried Had- 
dock (January 27tli) ; Porridge (January 25th). 

Luncheon. — Tripe and Onion Sauce (December 4tli) ; Plain Suet 
Pudding (May 13th). 

DiNNEE. — Ox-tail Soup (February 22nd). To Make Stock from 
Bones either Cooked or Uncooked. — Break the bones into small pieces; 
put them into a stewpan with cold water in the proportion of one 
quart of water to a pound of bones. Bring the water to a boil, and 
when it is nearly boiling throw in a little salt to raise the scum. 
Carefully remove this with an iron spoon as it rises, draw the stew- 
pan to the side of the fire, cover it closely, and let its contents simmer 
very gently for five hours, by which time it will be reduced to half 
the quantity. Strain the liquid through a sieve into a clean bowl 
' and leave it in a cool place till next day. Before using it skim away 
every particle of fat, and in pouring it out leave untouched the sedi- 
ment w^hich wiU most likely be at the bottom of the bowl. This 
liquor will constitute what is called " unflavoured stock." If it is 
to be used quickly the flavouring ingredients may be stewed with the 
bones, but if not it is best to add them afterwards — first, because the 
stock will keep longer without them ; and secondly, because the 
flavourers can then be varied to suit the kind of soup which is to be 
made from the stock. When the flavouring ingredients are added on 
the day they should be boiled for the last two hours only. One carrot, 
one small turnip, one leek, or failing this, one onion, one clove, two 
outer sticks of celery, or a quarter of a tea-spoonful of celery seed tied 
in muslin, one bay-leaf, a bunch of parsley, a sprig of thyme, half a 



76 A YEAR'S COOKERY. 

small blade of mace, and six peppercorns will be needed to flavour a 
quart of liquid, and a small knob of sugar will help to bring out the 
flavour. The vegetables will not be of any use afterwards, as aU their 
goodness will have gone into the stock, therefore if vegetables are 
wanted they must be cooked separately. It is not well to let the 
stock boil more than five hours, as if it did so it might taste unplea- 
santly of the pan. If there were not time to boil the stock in one 
day it should on no account be left in the saucepan all night, but 
rather it should be put into a bowl and finished the next day, and the 
stewpan should be well washed, scoured, and dried before the stock 
was put into it again. Stock thus made will in cool weather keep 
good for several days if kept in a cool place. In summer it should 
be boiled up every day, and the bowl which contains it should be 
washed and dried before it is turned into it again. AVhen white 
soups are wanted a white saucepan should be used, and the stock 
should be made of veal bones, or the liquor in which fowls, turkeys, 
and rabbits have been boiled. Brown soups can be made from 
beef and mutton bones also. The bones and trimmings that are 
left on plates and dishes should never be thrown away until they 
have been stewed in this way, and the cook should keep one stew- 
pan for the purpose of making stock ; an ordinary iron stewpan will 
serve the purpose admirably If bones are thrown away Mdthout 
stewing, good food wiU have been wasted. The soups given in 
this book are made of unflavoured stock, a supply of which ought 
to be constantly on hand. Its consumption \Ai\ vary with the 
tastes as well as the numbers of a family, and therefore it is scarcely 
possible to say when the supply from cooked bones will fall short. 
But if the cook should find that she is short of stock, she should pro- 
cure two-pennyworth of bones and make it so that she may never be 
without. A spoon that has been dipped in boiling water should be 
used to take the fat from the stock. Mutton, Roasted (February 
12th); Baked Potatoes (May 4th); Salad (March 13th); Cottage 
Plum Pudding (June 6th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Boil the ox-cheek and put it into a mould with seasoning 
(April 6th). 

2. Boil the brine with a little more salt, and when it is cold put the 
thin flank of beef into it. 

3. Pastry to be made to-day (April 17th) :— One Rhubarb Pie ; 
One Plum Pie (Bottled Fruit) (August 7th) ; One Baked Custard 
Tart (January 19th); Tea-cakes (August 26th) ; Hombiy Cake (Octo- 
ber 16thy 



A tEAICB COOKERY, 



n 



February 14th. 



Breakfast. 

Toasted Bacon. 

Collared Tongiie. 

Tea-cakes. 

Dry Toast. 

Brown and Wliite Bread 

and Butter. 
Mustard and Cress. 
Bread and Milk. 



Luncheon. 

Spicy Pie (made of the 

broken meat from the 

leg of mutton). 
Eemains of Cottage Plum 

Pudding, cut into slices 

and fried. 



Dinner. 

Six or eight Oysters for each 
person, with Brown Bread 
and Butter and a cut 
Lemon. 

Beef a la Mode. 

Potatoes ; Brussels Sprouts. 

Lemon Pudding. 

Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day,— Fresh Oysters. Anglo-Dutch, American, or Portuguese Oysters 
■will be found excellent, and are much lower in price than natives. About two 
pounds of Beef. Any part that is lean and tender will do, but it should be 
cut thick ; a piece from the buttock, or a portion of the thick flank, the clod, 
or sticking, or even some ox-cheek will answer the purpose Potatoes, 
Brussels Sprouts ; half a pound of beef Suet. 

For To-morrow.— One Guinea Fowl (or a pair of birds may be procured if 
necessary). Guinea fowls are in season from February to June, and offer 
a welcome substitute for game, which is scarce at the time. The bird should 
be well kept, and then is not unlike pheasant in taste and appearance. The 
flesh is both palatable and digestible. A slice of fat Bacon (cured without 
saltpetre if it can be procured) ; half a pound of " Julienne." Julienne consists 
of dried vegetables ready txu-ned for soups. It is sold by the pound, and will 
be found both economical and convenient. It may be obtained at the Italian 
warehouses, at about Is. 2d. per pound, and half a pomid will last for three 
or four months. A jar of Liebig's Extract of Meat ; one tin of preserved Pine- 
apple ; one-pennyworth of Parsley ; a little di'ied Tarragon if this is not at 
hand ; one tin of Turkey and Tongue for supper on Sunday evening ; a tin of 
Sardines for breakfast on Monday. 



Breakfast. — Toasted Bacon (January IQth) ; Collared Tongue 
(January 2nd). Tea-cakes, to serve. — Tea-cakes may either be made 
not in the oven, cut through the centre, buttered liberally, cut into 
quarters, and restored to their original form ; or they may be cut 
through the centre and toasted before being buttered. In either case 
they should be served very hot. If liked, they can be sent to table 
cold, in which case they are simply cut into fingers, buttered liberally, 
and piled crosswise on a plate. Bread and Milk (January 25th). 

Luncheon.— Spicy Pie (May 7th) ; Cold Pudding (March 6th). 

Dinner. — Beef a la Mode. — Wash the cow-heel and cut it into 
pieces. Cut the beef also into neat pieces and flour them well. 
Weigh the beef and the cow-heel, and afterwards allow one pint of 
liquid to each pound of meat. Melt an ounce of dripping in a frying- 
pan, and put in the meat and two large onions cut into slices. Fry 
for about ten minutes, and stir the pieces occasionally, being very 
careful that the onions do not burn, nor the pieces of meat stick to 
the bottom of the pan. Transfer both meat and onions to a stewpan, 
add the cow-heel, and gradually as much stock or water (boiling) as 
is required. Throw in also three carrots cut into slices, a bunch of 
parsley, a sprig of thyme, two bay-leaves, two allspice, six pepper- 
corns, two cloves, and a little salt. Mix two small table-spoonfuls 
of flour to a smooth paste with a little cold v/ater. Stir this into the 



78 



A YEAR'S COOKE BY. 



stewj and keep stirring till it boils, being careful to remove the scum aa 
it rises. Cover the stewpan closely, that there may be no evapora- 
tion, draw it back, and let its contents simmer very gently for three 
hours. Skim it every now and then, and before dishing it add 
pepper and salt if necessary. Put the meat upon a dish, pour the 
gravy over it, and garnish with the pieces of cow-heel and the carrots. 
It is an improvement to send to table separately about a dozen small 
onions of the same size, cooked apart and glazed. To prepare the 
onions cut off the ends, blanch them by putting them into boiling 
water for about twenty minutes, then drain and cool them, and take 
off the two outer skins. Put into a small saucepan a piece of butter 
the size of an egg, a table-spoonful of pounded white sugar, pepper 
and salt, and as much stock as will cover the onions. Let them boil 
gently till tender. Take them up, and boil the gravy quickly till it 
is reduced to a glaze. If the lid is left off the stewpan the gravy 
will reduce more quickly. Put the onions in the glaze, shake them 
in it till they are coated, and baste them every ten minutes till 
wanted. Onions glazed in this way form an excellent garnish for 
various meat dishes. Potatoes (May 12th) ; Brussels Sprouts (June 
4th) ; Lemon Pudding (August 12th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 

Things that must not bo Forgotten, 

1. Turn and rub the thin flank of beef. 

2. Preserve the bacon-rind for flavouring. 

3. Break up and stew the leg of mutton bone for stock {see 
February 13th). 

4. If there are any remains of the beef a la mode the meat will 
be excellent potted for breakfast, and the gravy will be a valuable 
addition to soup. 

5. If cream is to be permitted for the rhubarb pie on Feb. IGtliit 
should be ordered to-day. 



Sunday, February 15th, 



Breakfast. 


Dinner. 


Tea. 


Supper. 


Ox-cheek Brawn. 


Julienne Soup 


Tea-cakes. 


Preserved Turkey 


Boiled Eggs. 


(quickly made). 


Brown and White 


aud Tongue (Tin- 


Tea-cakes. 


Guinea Fowl. 


Bread and Butter, 


ned). 


Brown and White 


Brown Gravy. 


Damson Jam. 


Plum Pie. 


Bread aud Butter. 


Bread Saiice. 


Hominy Cake. 


Cheese. 


Porridge. 


Mashed Potatoes. 
Broccoli. 
Preserved Pine- 
apple. 
Custard. 








Cheese. 







Breakfast. — Ox-cheek Brawn (April 6th) ; Boiled Eggs (January 
5th} ; Tea-cakes (February 14th) ; Porridge (January 25th). 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



Dinner. — Julienne Soup quickly made. — Peel an onion, stick two 
cloves into it, and put it into a saucepan with about a quart of water, 
a dessert-spoonful of good gelatine, two outer sticks of celery, three 
peppercorns^ a pinch of mixed herbs tied in muslin, and anything else 
that is at hand that will help to make it tasty. Simmer gently till 
the water is flavoured, then strain the liquor, stir into it as much 
Liebig's Extract as will colour it and make it taste good, and thicken 
it very slightly by boiling in it a little arrowroot mixed to a smooth 
paste with water. Soak a dessert-spoonful of the Julienne in cold 
water for three-quarters of an hour. Pour off the water, put the 
vegetables into a saucepan with fresh cold salted water, and boil them 
like fresh vegetables. Put them with the soup, boil all together for a 
quarter of an hour, turn the whole into a heated soup-tureen, and 
serve immediately. Guinea Fowl (April 5th) ; Brown Gravy (October 
18th) ; Bread Sauce (October 18th) ; Mashed Potatoes (May 12th) ; 
Broccoli (April 25th) ; Tinned Pine-apple (April 8th) ; Custard 
(August 10th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 

Tea.— Tea-cakes (February 14th) ; Hominy Cake (October 16th). 

SuPPEE. — Preserved Turkey and Tongue {see Remarks on Potted 
Grouse, January 7th) ; Plum Pie (August 7th). 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Preserve the bones and remnants of the Guinea Fowl 
may be made of them for to-morrow. 

2. Turn and rub the beef. 



soup 



February 16th. 



Breakfast. 


Luncheon. 


Dinner. 


Sardines. 

Turkey and Tongue. 

Hot Buttered Toast. 

Dry Toast. 

Brown and White Bread and 

Butter. 
Milk Toast. 


Ox-clieek Brawn. 
Macaroni Cheese. 


Guinea Fowl Soup. 
Broiled Steak with Oyster 

Sauce, 
Fried Potatoes. 
Ehubarb Pie (a little Cream 

if permitted). 
Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— Half a pound of Pipe Macaroni, if it is not in the honse. Steak 
for Broiling (see January 22nd). One Tin of Oysters or, if preferred, one 
dozen large Oysters for Oyster Sauce ; Potatoes. 

For To-morrow.— One Tin of Potted Grouse (see January 7th). Fresh T\Tiiting 
for breakfast (see January 17th). 



Breakfast. — Sardines (January 12th) ; Turkey and Tongue 
(Potted Grouse, January 7th); Milk Toast (June 17th). 

Luncheon. — Ox-cheek Brawn (April 6th); Macaroni Cheese 
(March 20th). 

Dinner. — Guinea Fowl Soup. — Take the remains of the Guinea 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



Fowl ; pick the meat from the bones, and put it aside. Bruise the 
bones, and put them into a stewpan with the skin and trimmings, any 
forcemeat there may be, two or three strips of bacon-rind scalded and 
scraped, three outer sticks of celery that have been preserved for 
flavouring, a sprig of thyme, a shalot, a small onion stuck with two 
cloves, a bay-leaf, and six peppercorns. Pour over all about three 
pints of the stock made from the leg of mutton, bring the liquor to a 
■ boil, skim it carefully, and simmer it gently for t\YO hours. Minoc 
the meat, and pound it in a mortar with a slice of the crumb of bread 
soaked in-the stock; season it pleasantly with salt, pepper, and a little 
grated nutmeg. It will be smoother if it is pressed through a hair 
sieve after it is pounded, but the operation is rather tedious, and may 
be dispensed with. Strain the soup, return it to the saucepan, add 
the pounded meat mixed to a paste with a spoonful or two of cold 
water. Boil twenty minutes longer, season with pepper and salt if 
required, and serve very hot. A few drops of brown colouring can bo 
added if necessary. Broiled Steak (January 22nd) ; Oyster Sauce 
(October 16th) ; Fried Potatoes (February 2nd) ; Bhubarb Pie made 
on Friday ; Cheese (June 8th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Prepare the ground rice blanc-mange for dinner to-morrow 
(August 7th). 

2. Turn and rub the thin flank of beef. ■ 

3. Be careful to preserve about a pint and a lialf of the leg of 
mutton stock for the civet of rabbit to-morrow. 

4. Turn the potted grouse into a jar, and ornament it vdth a neatly- 
cut paper frill, for breakfast {see January 7th). 

5. Ask the fishmonger to prepare the whiting for frying — that is, 
skin them, and fasten their tails in their mouths. 

6. If hominy is to be used for breakfast it will need to be soaked 
(see Februaiy 10th). 



February 17th. 



Breakfast. 

Fried Wliitmg. 

Potted Grouse. 

Tea-cakes. 

Brown and "White Bread and 

Butter. 
Honey. 
Boiled Hominy. 



Luncheon. 

Slieplierd's Pie, made of 

remnants of Steak. 
Bra^vn. 
Baked Custard. 



Dinner. 

Baked Gui-uet. 

Civet of Eabbit. 

Stewed Celery. 

Potatoes. 

Ground Pice Blanc-mangc 

with Jam. 
Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— Gurnets or Gurnards, although tliey are at their best in October, 
will probably be still oliered for sale, and "uill attord a pleasant variety for 
the dinner-table for a few weeks later than this. The flesh is firm and well- 
flavoured. The freshness of gurnet is determined like that of other fish 
(aee January 3rd). A moderate-sized fish will be enough for two people. Two 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



81 



moderate-sized Rabbits, Oatend or Wild, whichever is preferred {see January 
24th) ; three heads of Celery ; quarter of a pound of Bacon, if this is not in the 
house {see January 3rd) ; Potatoes. 
For To-morrow.— A well -hung Shoulder of Mutton ; three pounds of Jerusalem 
Artichokes ; six-pennyworth of Spanish Onions ; if allowed, four-pennyworth 
Of Cream for Palestine Soup to-morrow. 

Breakfast. — Fried Wliiting (January 17th) ; Potted Grouse 
(January 7tli); Tea-cakes (February 14tli); Boiled Hominy (February 
nth). 

Luncheon. — Shepherd's Pie (January 12th) ; Brawn left yester- 
day ; Baked Custard (January 19th). 

Dinner.— ^a/t-ecZ Gurnet. — Cleanse the gurnets like other fish, 
being careful to cut away the fins and remove the gills. Fill the 
insides with good veal forcemeat (June 27th)) ; sew them up securely, 
and truss the fish with the tail in the mouth. Lay a good slice 
of fat bacon upon each, and lay them side by side in a baking 
dish or tin that has been well greased with dripping, and bake in a 
moderately hot oven till done enough. They will take about half 
an hour or more, according to size. Serve on a hot dish mthout a 
napkin, and pour the sauce round, but not over the giirnets. Good 
melted butter (July I7th), or maitre d'hotel sauce (May 6th), made 
acid -udth lemon-juice, chili \dnegar, or caper pickle, will be a suit- 
able accompaniment, or anchovy sauce (July 17th) may be preferred. 
Civet of Babbit (December 8th); Stewed Celery (December 2nd) ; 
Potatoes (May 12th) ; Ground Rice Blanc-mange (August 7th) ; 
Cheese (June 8th). • 

Tilings that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Put two table-spoonfuls of tapioca to soak all night in a pint of 
water, with three or four inches of very thin lemon-rind, cut without 
&ny of the white pith, v/hich is objectionable because it is bitter. 

2. Turn and rub the beef in the brine. 

3. Be careful to stew the rabbit bones for stock. 

4. If liked, the outer stalks only of the celery can be stewed, and 
ihe inner ones may be served with the cheese course. 



February 18th, 



Breakfast. 



■Remains of Potted Grouse. 

Savoury Eggs. 

Hot Buttered Toast, 

Dry Toast. 

Brown and White Bread and 

Butter. 
Fried Hominy. 



Luncheon. 

Rice and Cheese, 
Baked Omelet. 



Dinner. 



Palesti7ie Soui?. 

Shoulder of Mutton. 

Onion Sauce. 

Baked Potatoes. 

Greens. 

Tapioca and Apples. 

Cheese 



Marketing. 
For the Day.— Two pounds of good baking Apples; Potatoes, Grooiw; one 
pennyworth of Parsley. 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



For To-morrow.— Haricot Beans ; small Soles, "Slips" (see January 3rd) ; hali 
a pound of rashers of Bacon, if not in the house (see January 3rd). 

Breakfast.— Potted Grouse (January 7th); Savoury Eggs (January 
1st) ; Fried Hominy (February 12tli). 

Luncheon. — Bice and Cheese. — Cheese that has become too hard 
for the table may be used for this dish. It will need to be grated pn 
a coarse grater before being used. Wash a quarter of a pound of rice 
in two or three waters, put it in a saucepan mth plenty of cold 
water, and let the water boil. Pour it away, and in its place put 
three gills of milk, and simmer for about twenty minutes, or till the 
rice is . tender without being in a pulp, then season it with pepper 
and salt. Whilst the rice is simmering grate the cheese ; two ounces 
will be required for this quantity of rice. Grease a shallow dish, 
spread half the rice upon it, and sprinkle over this half the grated 
cheese, add the remainder of the rice and the rest of the cheese, and 
place little pieces of dripping here and there over the top. Put the 

Preparation in a hot oven till it is brightly browned, and serve vei7 
ot. Baked Omelet (August 6th). 
DiNNEE. — Palestine soup made of .the stock in which the rabbit 
bones were stewed (December 8th); Shoulder of Mutton (March 4th) ; 
Onion Sauce (October 14th) ; Baked Potatoes (May 4th) ; Greens 
(June 4th). Ta2noca and Apj^les. —Take half-a-dozen good-sized baking 
apples, peel, core, and cut them into quarters. . Piemove the lemon- 
rind, and put the tapioca and the water in which it was soaked into 
a saucepan, and stir it till it boils, and let it keep boihng for a few 
minutes till it is clear, and stir frequently, lest it should get lumpy, 
then sweeten it with a little white sugar. Put the quarters of apples 
into a pie-dish with two or three spoonfuls of cold water, some brown 
sugar, and two cloves. \\Tien slightly softened put them at the 
bottom of the saucepan, cover them with the tapioca, and let them 
simmer very gently till they are tender without being broken. Lift 
them upon a dish, colour the tapioca with a little cochineal, pour it 
over the fruit, and serve cold. If liked, large-grained sago can be, 
used instead of tapioca for this dish, and cinnamon or ginger can bei 
used instead of lemon-rind for flavouring. Primes or other fruit 
can, if preferred, be used instead of apples. Cheese (June 8tli). 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Turn and rub the beef in the brine. 

2. Put the mutton upon a clean dish as soon as it comes from the 
table. 

3. Before putting the pickles away, see tLat they are quite covered 
with vinegar. 

4. Put half a pint of haricot beans to soak all night in plenty 
of cold water. A little piece of soda the size of a nut niay be put 
rvith them to help to soften them. 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



83 



Breakfast. 

Baked Soles. 

Toasted Bacon. 

Hot Buttered Toast. 

Dry Toast. 

Marmalade. 

Brown and WUte Bread 

and Butter. 
Porridge. 



February 19th. 

Luncheon. 

Cold Mutton witli Pickles. 
Baked Potatoes. 
Jam and Bread. 



Dinner. 

Haricot Puree. 

Beef Steak k I'ltalienne. 

Broccoli. 

Potatoes. 

Ground Eice Pudding. 

Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— A large slice of Rump Steak, weighing from three to four 
pounds, and cut evenly not less than two inches thick (see January 22nd). 
Potatoes ; Broccoli. 

For To-morrow.— One large Neck of IMutton with as little fat as may he (se« 
Fehruary 5th). One cow-heel for luncheon to-morrow. Six pennyworth of 
Spanish Onions. A small tin of corned beef for breakfast. One peimyworth 
of Small Salad ; Anchovies. 

Breakfast. — Baked Soles (January 7th); Toasted Bacon (January 
loth); Porridge (January 25tli). 

LuNCHEOK — Mutton left yesterday ; Baked Potatoes (May 4tli). 

Dinner. — Haricot Pur6e (March 9th) ; Beef Steak a I'ltalienne 
(February 2nd) ; Broccoli (April 25th) ; Potatoes (April 7th) ; Ground 
Ptice Pudding (August 21st) ; Cheese (Juno 8th). 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Turn and rub the beef in the brine. 

2. Be careful to preserve the bacon rind for flavouring purposes. 

3. If any of the beef is left it may be potted and used for break- 
fast instead of the corned beef. 

4. Fillet the ancho\ies and prepare the cress for breakfast. {See 
January 18th). 

5. Be careful to render the fat left from the shoulders of mutton. 
Fat cooked and uncooked must be rendered down before it can be 
used. AVhen rendered it is better than common butter for pastry, 
puddings, and cakes, because common butter is made of no one but 
the makers thereof know what ; and it is better than lard for fry- 
ing purposes because it is not so greasy. To render it, cut it (both 
cooked and uncooked) into small pieces, and throw any skin or lean 
meat there may be with it into the stock-pot. Put it into an old 
but perfectly clean iron saucepan, cover it with cold water, and boil 
it quickly with the lid off the pan till the water has evaporated, that 
is, till the liquid fat looks like clear oil. Stir it frequently during 
the time to prevent it burning to the bottom of the pan ; draw it 
back, and let it continue to boil but very gently till the pieces of 
fat look diy and shrivelled, then let it cool for a few minutes, and 
pour it through an old sieve into a basin. If it were poiu-ed out 
while boiling it would crack the basin. All kinds of fat can be 



84 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



thus clarified ; beef and mutton fat, the fat skimmings of sauce- 
pans, and bacon fat, and they onlj'- need to be clarified once. The 
same fat can be used for frjdng purposes fcr a long time if passed 
through a fine strainer after being used. Fat should never be allowed 
to remain on the fire when not wanted. When it becomes impure 
it should be melted over the fire with an equal quantity of cold water, 
then boiled, poured out and allowed to go cold, when the impurities 
will sink to the bottom and should be scraped off with a knife. When 
the joints used in the household do not supply a sufficient quantity 
of fat for cooking purposes, fresh fat can be bought at a low price 
and rendered do^m. The best kind for the purpose is the ox flare 
or caul, or, better still, the twist, that is, the fat which comes from 
the top side of the round of beef.^ Not all butchers, however, can 
supply their customers with the twist. Both ox flare and twist yield 
a soft fat which is much better than hard fat for cakes and pastry. 
After fat is rendered, the "craps" or pieces that are left can be 
rubbed into flour instead of dripping for plain pudding. 



February 20th. 



Breakfast. 


Luncheon. 


Dinner. 


AncTiovies vnth Hard-boiled 


Cow Heel with Parsley 


Skate with Brown Butter 


Eggs. 


Sauce. 


Sauce. 


Corned Beef. 


Baked Batter Pudding. 


Irish Stew. 


Buttered Toast. 




Potatoes. 


Dry Toast. 




Apple Pie, 


Brown and ^VMte Bread 




Cheese. 


and Butter. 






Com Flour Milk. 







Marketing. 

For the Day.~Two pounds of Skate (see January 10th) ; Potatoes, Apples, 

bottled Red Currants ; German Yeast. 
For To-morrow.— Bloaters for breakfast, one for each person. 

Breakfast. — Anchovies with hard-boiled Eggs (January 18th) ; 
Corned Beef bought yesterday ; Corn Flour Milk (.June 19th). 

Luncheon. — Cow Heel with Parsley Sauce. — Wash the heel, split 
it, and soak it for an hour, put it into a saucepan with as much 
cold water as will quite cover it. Bring it to a boil, skim it carefully, 
then boil it gently for about four hours, or till the bones can be 
drawn out. Put it upon a dish without removing the skin, season it 
with pepper and salt, and cover it with parsley and butter. This 
dish wlien properly cooked is both wholesome and delicious. Baked 
Batter Pudding (February 5th). 

Dinner. — Skate with Brown Butter Sauce (Februaiy 12th) Irish 
Stew (March 10th). The best end only of the neck of mutton will 
be needed for this dish, the scrag end Avill be wanted for luncheon 
to-morrow ; Potatoes (May 6th) ; Apple Pie (August 7th) ; Cheese 
(June 8tli). 



A YEAKS COOKERY. 



83 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Turn and rub the beef in the brine. 

2. Pastry is to be made to-day (April IVth). An apple pie ; a 
red currant tart, made of bottled fruit (August 7th) ; a seed cake 
(August 14th), and tea-cakes (August 2Gth). 

3. Be careful to preserve the stock in which the cow-heel was 
boiled. It will be excellent for soup. 

4. ]\Iake the batter early in the day; it will be better for standing 
awhile. 

5. Keep the bloaters on a dish apart from other food. {See Note 3, 
January 1st.) 



February 21st. 



Breakfast. 

Bloaters. 

Corned Beef. 

Tea-cakes, Hot. 

Dry Toast. 

Marmalade. 

Brown and WMte Bread 

and Butter. 
Porridge. 



Luncheon. 

Scrag end of Neck of Mut- 
ton, with Eice. 
Cake Pudding. 



Dinner. 

Celery Soup. 

Sausages and Mashed 

Potatoes. 
Eoly-poly Pudding. 
Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— Two or three pounds of best Sausages, if these can be bought of 
a trustworthy dealer; If there is any doubt about the matter, buy two pounds 
of fresh Pork (March 18th) ; two or three heads of Celery ; one penny woi'th 
of Parsley ; half a poiuid (or less) of good beef Suet ; Potatoes. 

For To-morrow.— One good-sized Ox-tail ; two or three Ptarmigan. These birds, 
which, when plentiful, are usually sold at a reasonable price, are in season 
from Febi'uary to April. Birds that have been well kept should be chosen. 
Ptarmigan are not large (about the size of red grouse), and therefore it is 
well to have something tolerably satisfying with them. Ox-tail soup will 
answer this description. When the family is large, a dish of mutton cutlets 
can be provided as weU ; in this case two or three pounds of neck of mutton 
must be ordered (February 5th). If one bird more than is likely to be used at 
dinner can be procured, it may be made into a salad for supper. (See Game 
or Chicken Salad.) Three heads of French Lettuce ; a basket of small Salad ; 
a pennyworth of boiled Beet-i-oot ; four sheep's Kidneys and half a pound of 
streaky Bacon, if this is not in the house (.January 3rd); a tin of potted Hare, 
and a dried Haddock for brealcfast on Monday. 

Breakfast. — Bloaters (January 3rd) ; Corned Beef bought 
February 19th; Tea-cakes (February 14th); Porridge (January 25th). 

Luncheon.— >Scra(7 End of Neck of Mutton. — Joint the scrag, 
and lay it in a large ste\v pan, and pour over it three quarts of cold 
water. Bring the liquor to a boil, skim it carefully, and throw into 
it six ounces of well- washed rice, and let it simmer for an hour ; add 
three carrots, three onions, two turnips, eight peppercorns, and a 
little salt, and stew gently for two hours longer ; serve very hot. Cake 
Pudding {see February 4th). 

Dinner. — Celery Soup (December 3rd) ; Sausages (January 7th) ; 
Mashed Potatoes (^May 12th); Roly-poly Pudding (August 18th); 
Clieese (June SthV 



86 



A YEAKS COOKERY. 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Turn and rub the beef in the brine. 

2. In making the celery soup remember that the hearts can be 
eaten with cheese. The outer sticks only will need to be used for 
the celery soup . 

3. Preserve any liquid that may be left from stewing the neck of 
mutton . 

4. Ask the butcher to joint the ox-tail. 

5 . Put a teacupful of white haricot beans to soak in plenty of 
cold water. 

6. ]\Iake a little mayonnaise sauce for the salad to-morrow evening 
(August 30th). 



Sunday, February 22nd. 



Breakfast. 


Dinner. 


Tea. 


Supper. 


Sardines. 


Ox-tail Soup. 


Tea-cakes. 


Ptarmigan Salad. 


Kidneys and Bacon. 


Roast Ptarmigan. 


Brown and Wliite 


Eed Currant Tart. 


Tea-cakes. 


Brown Gravy. 


Bread and Butter. 


Cheese. 


Dry Toast. 


Bread Sauce. 


Mustard and Cress. 




Honey. 


Potatoes. 


Seed Cake. 




Brown and White 


Haricot Beans. 






Bread and Butter. 


Ciiocolate Pudding. 






Bread and Milk. 


Custard. 







Breakfast. — Sardines (January 12th) ; Kidneys and Bacon 
(January 2nd) ; Tea-cakes (February 14th) ; Bread and Milk (January 
25th). 

Dinner. — Ox-tail Soup. — Cut the tail into inch and a-half 
lengths. Trim away the fat, and fry the pieces in a stewpan, with a 
little dripping, for five minutes, or till they are brightly browned. 
Pour over them two quarts of stock or water. (In this instance, any 
stock left after stewing the scrag of mutton can be used.) Bring the 
liquor to a boil, and throw in a tea-spoonful of salt. Skim it carefully, 
and put with it a small carrot, a turnip, an onion, with two cloves, 
a blade of mace, half a small tea-spoonful of dried savoury herbs (or, 
wanting these, a bunch of parsley, a sprig of thyme, and a bay leaf), 
six peppercorns, and a stick of celery. Stew gently for two hours 
and a half. Strain the stock, and put the pieces of tail into cold 
water in order to set the fat, and so facilitate its removal. Melt an 
ounce and a half of butter in a small stewpan, stir in till smooth a 
table-spoonful of flour, and add the stock gradually. Let the soup 
simmer by the side of the fire for twenty minutes, and skim away the 
fat as it rises. Make the meat hot in the soup. Just before serving, 
add a spoonful of Hquid browning, a few drops of lemon juice, and a 
glass of port. Clear ox-tail is made just in the same way, but the 
thickening is omitted, and the soup is clarified, {see Clear Soup, 
July 30th). Boast Ptarmigan (Grouse, August (30th) ; Brown Gravy 
and Bread Sauce (October 18th); Mutton Cutlets, with Piquant Sauce 



A TEAR'S COOKERY, 



87 



(April 30tli) ; Potatoes (]\Iay 4tli) ; Haricot Beans (June 20th) ; 
Chocolate Pudding (July 24th) ; Custard (August 10th) ; Cheese 
(June 8th). 

Tea.— Tea-cakes (February 14th) ; Seed Cake (August 14th). 

Supper. — Ptarmigan Salad (August 30th) j Eed Currant Tart 
(August 7th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Be sure that the lettuce is perfectly dry before mixing the 
salad. 

2. Turn and rub the beef in the brine. 

3. If the legs of the birds are left they may be devilled for 
breakfast. 



February 23rd. 



Breakfast. 




Luncheon. 


Dinner. 


Dried Haddock. 




Australian Meat, Cold. 


Game Soup. 


Potted Hare. 




Pickles. 


Stewed Steak. 


Marmalade. 




Baked Potatoes. 


Potato Snow. 


Hot Buttered Toast. 




Jam and Bread, witli Milk. 


Cabbage. 


Dry Toast. 






Guest's Pudding. 


Brown and White 


Bread 




Cheese. 


and Butter. 








Milk Toast. 









Marketing. 

For the Day.— One two-pound tin of Australian meat ; three pounds of tender 
Buttock Steak (see January 1st) ; Potatoes, Cabbage ; a quarter of a pound 



of Suet 
For To-Morrow. 



-One dozen Scallops for breakfast. 



Breakfast. — Dried Haddock (January 27th) ; Potted Hare 
(January 7th) ; Milk Toast (June 17th). 

Luncheon. — Australian Meat, cold {see February 4th) ; Baked 
Potatoes (May 4th). Jam and Bread Pudding (economical). — Spread 
a little jam on slices of bread, cut about a quarter of an inch thick • 
lay them on a dish, and pour over them hot milk as much as will 
cover them. Let them soak awhile, and serve hot or cold. Tliis 
simple pudding is generally liked by children. 

DiNNEE. — Game Soup, made of bones and remains of Ptarmigan. 
This soup will have a peculiar but not disagreeable flavour. {See 
February 16th.) Stewed Steak (January 31st); Potato Snow (April 7th); 
Cabbage (June 4th); Guest's Pudding (April 14th); Cheese (June 8th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Prepare the scallops for breakfast to-morrow. Note 3, March 7th. 

2. Boil the beef. Scrape it with a knife and wash it quickly in 
cold water. Salt meat may be washed, because if that is done, and 
the brine recommended before has been used, soup can be made of 



88 



A YEARS COOKERY. 



tlie stock if that is wished.* Fresh meat must on no account be 
washed, as that would draw out the juices. Dry it well, and remove 
the bones. Cut it in half, and lay one piece on the top of the other. 
(The butcher could probably do this better than it could be done at 
home.) Bind tape round it to make it safe. Lay an old plate at the 
bottom of a stewpan, put in the meat, and pour over it as much luke- 
warm water as will quite cover it ; let it just boil. Skim the liquor, 
draw the saucepan back, and let the contents simmer very gently till 
the meat is done enough. It will take about five hours, or half an 
hour per pound. If it is to be eaten cold, it may be left in the liquor 
till it is cool, and then it should not be boiled quite so long. Put it 
between two dishes, lay a heavy weight on the topmost one, and leave 
it for twelve hours. Strain the liquid, pour it into an earthenware 
pan, and leave it till cold. When the fat has been taken from it, 
it may be boiled to glaze (March 21st). The water in which the 
meat is boiled is to be lukewarm, because the meat is salt ; it is used 
in order to extract some of the salt before hardening the outside of 
the meat. Fo^esh meat should be put into fast boiling water, boiled 
for four minutes to harden the outside, and so keep in the juices, and 
afterwards have a cupful of cold water added to lower the tempera- 
ture, then be simmered gently tiU done. For meat that is to be eaten 
hot and not pressed, less time will be required for boiling ; but the 
length of time depends upon the thickness as well as the size of the 
joint. As a general rule, a quarter of an hour per pound may be 
allowed for all meat but pork, which needs five minutes per pound 
extra. The meat must simmer, not boil, if it is to be tender. There 
is nothing so difficult as to persuade inexperienced cooks of this fact. 



February 24th. 

{Sup2^osed to be Shrove Tuesday.) 



Breakfast. 

ScaUops. 

Potted Hare. 

Buttered Toast. 

Dry Toast. 

Brown and Wliite Bread 

and Butter. 
Porridge. 



Luncheon. 

Savoury Hash of Australian 

Meat. 
Cold Potatoes Fried. 
Plain Eice Pudding. 



Dinner. 

Sole au Gratin. 
Eoast Loin of Mutton. 
Boiled Onions or Onion 

Sauce. 
Maslied Potatoes. 
Broccoli 
Pancakes with sugar, cut 

Lemons. 
Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— A pair of tliiek Soles (see January 3rd). A well-hung Loin of 
Mutton, about six pounds. Lemons, if not at hand ; Onions, Potatoes, Broccoli. 

For To-morrow.— About five pounds of good Salt Cod. Parsnips. A piece of 
the gammon of Bacon, weighing about four pounds. Muffins for breakfast 
(see January 29th). Half-a-dozen fresh Herrings (see January 3rd). The fish 
should be bright and silvery looking. The more scales they have, the fresher 
they are likely to be. 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 89 



Breakfast. — Scallops (Note 3, March 7tli) ; Potted Hare (January 
7th) ; Porridge (January 25th). 

LuxcHEOX. — Savoury Hash (February 5th). Cold Potatoes, browned 
(December 26th). Flain Eice^ Pudding. — Wash half a tea-cupful of 
rice, and throw away the grains that float. Drain the rice, put it 




Bread for Pancakes. 



into a pie-dish, and pour over it a quart of skim milk ; add a quarter 
of an inch of cinnamon or a little piece of lemon rind, and a piece 
of butter the size of a sixpence. Do not stir the pudding, but bake 
it in a moderate oven till it is covered with a bright brown skin, 
when it is ready to serve. It will take about an hour and a half. 




PAifCAKES Laib Over the Bread. 

DixxER.— Sole au Gratin (May 3rd) ; Eoast Loin of Mutton 
(March 4th) :_ Onion Sauce (October 14th); Potatoes (May 12th) ; 
Broccoli (April 25th). Pancakes. — Two pancakes may be allowed 
for each person. An ounce and a half of flour, one egg, and a 
quarter of a pint of milk will make about four pancakes, supposing 
a small frjdng-pan is used five or six inches in diameter. Put the 
flour into a bowl Tvith a little salt ; add the eggs and a spoonful of 
milk, and beat till quite smooth. Add the rest of the milk gradually, 



90 



A YEAKS COOKERY. 



and keep beating till tlie batter is light. The more the batter is 
beaten the better it will be, and it is best when made some hours 
before it is wanted. Wipe out the frying-pan, and melt a little drip- 
ping in it ; pour in enough batter to barely Jover the bottom of the 
pan, and set it over a clear fire. Loosen the edges of the pancake, 
jerking the pan occasionally to keep the batter from sticking. Turn 
one side of the pancake over with the point of a knife to see whether 
the under-side is browned, and if it is toss the pancake over and let 
the other side brown. Lay the pancake upon kitchen paper to free 
it from grease, sprinkle some sugar upon it, and squeeze lemon juice 
over tliis ; and as the pancakes are finished pile them on a hot dish, 
and keep them as hot as possible till they are to be served. Add a 
little fresh fat to the pan for each pancake. Sometimes it is preferred 
that the pancakes should lie open on the dish, and then the first one 
is placed upon a round piece of crumb of bread cut rather smaller 
than the pancake itself. This is to keep the pancake from sinking 
down in the middle. Cheese (June 8th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Wash the salt fish and put it to soak all night. If very salt, do 
this early in the day. 

2. Reduce the liquid in which the beef was boiled to glaze, and 
garnish the beef (March 21st). 

3. Make the batter for the pancakes some hours before they are 
to be fried. 

4. Prepare the herrings for breakfast to-morrow (August 20th). 

5. Make croquettes for breakfast of the remains of cold mutton. 
{See Rissoles, January 6th). 



February 25th. 

[Supposed to be Ash Wednesday.) 



Breakfast. 



Rolled Herrings. 

Croquettes. 

Muffins. 

Dry Toast. 

Brown and Wliite Bread 

and Butter. 
Bread and Milk. 



Luncheon. 

Pressed Beef. 

Baked Plum Pudding. 



Dinner. 



F'ult Fisli. 

Parsnips. 

Egg Sauce. 

Eoast Neck of Veal. 

Gammon of Bacon. 

Potatoes. 

Stewed Endive. 

Wyvern Puddings. 

Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— The best end of a Neck of Veal weighing about six pounds. 
Veal should be small, finely grained, with firm fat, of a pinkish-white colour. 
K the lean be flabby and discoloured, or in the least degree green, it is tainted. 
It should not be kept more than two or three days after it is killed, but if 
eaten too fresh it will be hard. A pennyworth of fresh Parsley ; a quarter of a 
pound of Beef Kidney Suet, half a Pig's Head and two Pig's Feet for BrawB 
(see Marketing, January 7th) ; Muffins {see January 29th). 



A YEARS COOKERY. 



91 



Breakfast. — Herrings (August 20th); Croquettes (January 6th); 
Muffins (January 30th) ; Bread and INIilk (January 25th). 

Luncheon. — Baked Flum Puddivfj. — Chop finely four ounces of 
good beef suet. Mix thoroughly in a bowl three-quarters of a pound 
of flour, a heaped tea-spoonful of baking powder, and a pinch of salt. 
Add the chopped suet, four ounces of stoned raisins, four ounces of 
picked and dried currants, four ounces of sugar, and two ounces of 
candied peel chopped small. Break an egg into a cup ; if perfectly fresh 
remove the speck, and beat the egg well with a table-spoonful of milk. 
Moisten the pudding with the mixture, and, if necessary, add more 
milk ; some flours require more moisture than others. It may be 
remembered, however, that the pudding when mixed should be very 
stiff — stiff enough for the knife to stand up in it. Grease a dripping- 
tin with dripping, put the mixture into it, and bake in a well-heated 
oven. It will be done enough in about an hour. Cut it into squares, 
sift white sugar over it, and serve. If preferred, dripping can be 
rubbed into the flour instead of adding chopped suet, and an 
additional tea-spoonful of baking-powder can be substituted for 
the (igg. Pressed Beef, prepared February 24th. 

Dinner. — Salt Fish (April 10th) ; Parsnips (September 30th) ; 
Egg Sauce (April 10th) ; Roast Neck of Veal (May 28th) ; Gammon 
of Bacon (iSIarch 30th) ; Potatoes (April 7th) ; Stewed Endive 
(December 5th) ; Wyvern Puddings (May 9th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Presei-ve the liquor in which the bacon has been boiled. A 
portion of it can be put with difterent kinds of stock to flavour it. 

2. For the pig's head, see Notes 1 and 2, January 7th. 

3. Prepare any remains of salt fish there may be for breakfast to- 
morrow (April 11th). 



February 26th. 



Breakfast. 

Salt Fish EeehaufE^. 

Pressed Beef. 

Muffins. 

Buttered Toast. 

Dry Toast. 

Browu and Wliite Bread 

and Butter. 
Honey. 
Porridge. 



Luncheon. 

Minced Veal. 

Slices of Bacon, Cold 

Broiled. 
Baked Apples, 



Dinner. 

Macaroni Soup. 
Curried Rabbit. 
Boiled Eice. 
Potatoes. 

NewTuarket Puddin^ 
Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— Two fine and fresh Ostend Rabbits {see January 21th) ; a quarter 
of a pound of pipe ]\Iacaroni, if not in the house ; Apples, Potatoes ; Sea 
Biscuits. 

For To-morrow.— Six or eight small Soles, "Slips" [see Jacuary 3rd); two- 
pennyworth of Watercress. 



92 A YJ^AR'S COOKERY. 



Breakfast.— Salt Fisli, R^chauff^ of (April llth) ; Pressed Beef, 
prepared February 24tb) ; Muffins (January 30th) ; Porridge (January 
25tli). 

Luncheon. — Minced Veal (May lltli). £aco7i made Hot — Cut 
the remains of the boiled bacon into tliin slices, sprinkle over these 
fine bread-crumbs that have been slightly seasoned with cayenne, 
put them on a wire toaster and make them hot through, then serve. 
Bacon warmed in this way is very good for breakfast. Baked Apples 
(February 9th). 

Dinner. — Macaroni Soup. — This soup is made of gravy soup, to 
which boiled macaroni has been added. For special occasions clear 
soup would be needed, and for this it would be necessary to clarify 
the soup (Clear Soup, April 9th). For every-day use, however, 
good well-flavoured stock will answer the purpose excellently. In 
this particular instance it wall have been made by stewing the veal 
and mutton bones with vegetables (Stock, February 13th). Macaroni 
should always be boiled separately before being put into soup, as 
the outside part is apt to be dirty, and the impurities can only be 
removed by bein^ dissolved. If the macaroni were boiled in plain 
water, it would impart a slightly insipid taste to the soup. It is 
best, therefore, to prepare a savoury stock for it by boiling one or 
two bacon bones or strips of bacon rind, a leek, and six peppercorns 
for half an hour in a quart of water. The macaroni will be done 
enough in about half an hour ; the time required, however, varies 
with the quality of the macaroni. It should be soft and tender 
without being pulpy. When sufficiently boiled it should be drained, 
washed once more in cold water, cut into small pieces about a 
quarter of an inch long, and put into the soup tureen. When ready 
to be served the hot soup can be strained over it. A quarter of a 
pound of macaroni is sufficient for three pints of soup. Curried 
Rabbit (July 16th) ; Pvice (July 21st) ; Potatoes (April 7th) ; New- 
market Pudding (June 2nd) ; Cheese (June 8th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Put the beef upon a clean dish, and keep it in a cool jDlace. It 
is to be used for supper on March 1st. 

2. Wash a pound of prunes, and put them to soak in a pint and 
a half of water. 

3. Put a breakfast-cupful of white haricot beans to soak in cold 
water to cover them. 

4. Clean the pig's head {see Note 2, January 8th) ; boil the brine 
in which the beef was pickled, and when it is cold put the head and 
feet into it. 

5. Boil some eggs hard for breakfast to-morrow. One egg may 
be allowed for each person. Prepare also (for five or six eggs) hah 
a teacupful of bread-crumbs. 

6. If any rice were left, put it on a separate dish, and be careful 
that the curry does not touch it. 



A YJ'JARS COOKERY. 



93 



February 27th. 



Breakfast. 

Small Soles, Baked. 

Devilled Eggs. 

Watercress. 

Buttered Toast. 

Dry Toast. 

Brown and White Bread 

and Butter. 
Biscuits and Milk. 



Luncheon. 

Liver and Bacon. 
Stewed Prunes. 



Dinner. 

Kidney Soup. 

Haricot Mutton. 

Haricot Beans. 

Potatoes. 

Boiled Eice Pudding, made 
of the remains of the rice 
left fi'om the curry. 

Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— One pound and a half of Sheep's Liver. (It is not probable that 
calf's liver can be procured, therefore sheep's liver must be used.) HaK a 
pound of streaky Bacon cut into rashers (see January 3rd) ; half an Ox 
Kidney, or two Sheep's Kidneys ; Potatoes. 

For To-morrow.— Two Ox-tails ; a good-sized, tender Neck of Mutton ; one tin 
of Devilled Turkey and Tongue. (Retail price. Is.) Dried Sprats, one bundle 
for each person ; a pennyworth of fresh German Yeast ; four-pennyworth of 
Cream for soup. 



Breakfast. — Baked Soles {see January 7tli). Devilled Eggs. — 
Cut tlie hard-boiled eggs into halves. Take out the yolks, put them 
into a basin, season them with a little salt and cayenne, and add 
bread-crumbs to make them crumbly. The quantity of cayenne 
must be regulated by individual taste ; the more there is used the 
more devilish the eggs will be. Cut a little piece off the ends of the 
eggs to make them stand ; fill the hollow places with the prepared 
yolk, piling it rather high. Place the eggs on a dish, and arrange the 
watercress betvv'een and around them. If liked, finely shred lettuce 
can be substituted for the watercress. This dish is both pretty and 
palatable. Biscuits and Milk (June 14th). 

LuNCHEOX. — Liver and Bacon (January I7th). Stcived Prunes.— 
Simmer the prunes gently in the water in which they were soaked 
for a couple of hours until they are quite soft. An inch of lemon 
rind and two cloves may be stev»'ed with them. Drain them, let 
them cool a little, and put them into a glass dish. Sweeten the 
syi-up, and thicken it slightly with corn-flour or arrowroot. Strain 
it over the fruit, and serve cold. Milk or custard is an excellent 
addition to this dish. 

Dinner. — Kidney aS'ow^.— Cut the kidney into thin slices, and these 
again into small pieces about half an inch square. Season them with 
I)epper and salt, and dredge flour over them. Wash and prepare one 
moderate-sized turnip, one large carrot, one small onion, and two outer 
sticks of celery, and cut all into small pieces. Melt a slice of drip- 
ping in a stewpan, put in the kidney, and stir it over the fire for a 
minute or two, then add the vegetables. Pour in two c[uarts of cold 
water and a bouquet garni — that is, a bunch of parsley, a sprig of 
thjnae. and a bay leaf tied together — and simmer all gently for 



M 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



two hours, being careful to remove the scum as it rises : then take 
out the herbs. Mix two tablespoonfuls of flour to a smooth paste 
with cold water, add a little of the boiling liquid, and turn the whole 
into the soup. Let it boil a minute or two ; then add a table-spoon- 
ful of ketchup, some liquid browning to make it a rich, deep colour, 
and a little pepper. Boil once more, and serve very hot. Haricot 
Mutton (made of the best end of the neck of mutton, April 13th) ; 
Haricot Beans (June 20th) ; Potatoes (May 4th) ; Rice Mould R6- 
cliauff6 (April 27th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Pastry is to be made to-day (April 17th) : one Rhubarb Pie ; 
one Gooseberry Pie, made of bottled gooseberries (August 7th); 
Lemon Cheese-cakes (August 18th), Vienna Bread (August 26th) \ 
Rice Cake (August 2nd). 

2. Turn the pig's head in the brine. 



February 28th. 



Breakfast. 


Luncheon. 


Dinner 


Dried Sprats. 


Scrag of Mutton stewed 


Potatoe Purge. 


Devilled Turkey and Tongue 


with Vegetables. 


Ox-tails Stewed. 


(tinned). 


Hasty Pudding. 


Maslied Potatoes. 


Mai-nialade. 




Turnips. 


Buttered Toast. 




Baked Omelet 


Dry Toast. 




Cheese. 


Brown and Wkite Bread 






and Butter. 






Porridge. 







Marketing. 

For the Day.— A pennyworth of Parsley ; Potatoes, Turnips, Vegetables for 
Mutton. 

For To-morrow.— Two well-hung Prairie Birds ; a pair of thick Soles, filleted 
(see January 3rd) ; one pound of streaky Bacon (half for Sunday and half 
for Monday morning) ; a quarter of a pound of Beef Suet ; one small tin of 
Sardines ; four heads of Celery, and a Beetroot. Since the facilities for con- 
vesang food from one part of the world to another have been increased, 
prairie birds which at one. time were a great rarity have become more common, 
and they may frequently at this time of the year be obtained at a very 
moderate price. Though small they are profitable, for the flesh is so firm that 
it goes a long way, and a couple of prairie birds would quite take the place of 
a pair of good-sized fowls. Prairie birds should be well kept before being 
cooked, and the same rules hold good in dressing them that are to be observed 
with partridges and pheasants. If it may be permitted, three-pennyworth of 
Cream for rhubarb tart. Potatoes, Apples. 



Breakfast. — Dried Sj^rats. — Grease the gridiron, make it hot, 
put the sprats on it, and broil them over a clear fire for two or three 
minutes. Pile them on a dish covered with a fish paper, and garnish 
them with parsley. They must be served very hoty or they will be 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 95 



comparatively worthless. Devilled Turkey and Tongue [see Remarks 
on Potted Grouse, Marketing, January Tth) ; Porridge (January 25th). 

Luncheon. — Scrag of Mutton stewed with Vegetables (see 
January 14th); Hasty Pudding (March 30th). 

Dinner. — Potatoe Pur6e (January 26th) ; Ox-tails Stewed (May 
8th); Potatoes (May 12th); Mashed Turnips (September 30th) ; Baked 
Omelet (August 6th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 



Things that must not be Forgetton. 

Pluck and truss the birds for to-morrow. Preserve the feathers 
and dry them for making pillows. To do this, cut away the hard 
quills, and put all the feathers into a large paper bag. Turn the top 
over securely to keep them from flying about, and whenever there is 
an opportunity put them in a cool oven or by the side of the stove 
when the fire is low, till all the life is baked out of them. They are 
ready to be put away when the stalks of the feathers can be scraped 
to fine white powder with the finger-nail. If when thus scraped the 
quill is sticky, the feathers need to be baked a little longer. They 
will take ten days or a fortnight if put into the oven every evening. 
A large bag should be made to keep the cured feathers in until a 
sufficient quantity have been collected for use. 



FKUITS IN SEASON" SUITABLE FOR DESSERT IN 
FEBRUARY. 

Apples ; Oranges (St . Michael, Tangerine, and Malta) ; Bananas \ 
Grapes ; Pomeloes ; Shaddocks ; Nuts (Filberts, Cobs, Walnuts, 
Brazils, Almonds, Barcelonas) ; Almonds and Raisins ; French 
Plums; Figsj Dates; Crystallised Fruits; Foreign Preserved Fruits. 



DISHES FOR LN^VALIDS. 

BROTHS. 



Beef Tea. — The roll of the blade-bone of beef is the best part 
for making beef tea; what is wanted is fresh-killed, lean, juicy meat. 
Take away every little bit of fat and bone, cut the meat into very 
small pieces, and pour cold water over it in the proportion of a pint 
of water to a pound of beef . Let it stand for an hour or two till the 
water is red and the meat is white ; turn it into a perfectly clean 
saucepan, place it on the fire, and just before it begins to simmer 
skim it once carefully ; put on the lid, and simmer for about a 
quarter of an hour. Strain it through a coarse colander to keep 
back the meat only . When cold, remove the fat, and stir the tea up 
before serving it, as the sediment is the most nutritious portion. It 
is better not to season the beef unless specially requested to do so, as 



96 A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



an invalid generally likes to season for himself. If a larger quantity 
of water is used, the tea should be simmered five or six hours . 

Beef Tea (another way). — Cut up the beef as before, pour cold 
water over it (a pint to a pound), and turn into a stone jar, wliich 
has a closely fitting lid ; put it into a saucepan of boiling water, the 
water to come half way up the jar, and let it simmer on the side of 
the fire fDr three hours. 

Beef Tea quickly made . — ^lince half a pound of beef, and put it 
into a saucepan with half a pint of water. Bring it to the boil, 
simmer for a few minutes, and serve . 

Veal Broth.— Cut a pound of knuckle of veal into small pieces, 
put these into a stewpan with three pints of water and half a tea- 
cupful of rice . Boil gently for an hour and a haK . If liked, to vary 
the flavour, a few parsley leaves, a sprig of thyme, and a lettuce leaf 
may be chopped small, and simmered A\dth the veal for five or six 
minutes, not longer, or the flavour will be spoilt ; or a small blade of 
mace, a sprig or two of parsley, and one of thyme and marjoram, can 
be used . 

Mutton Broth. — Take one pound of neck of mutton, as lean as 
can be procured, pour over it a quart of cold water, and simmer 
gently for four hours . When the broth is cold remove the fat, and 
make the broth hot before serving. If liked, half a teacupful of 
pearl barley can (after being boiled up once with half a pint of 
water and drained) be stewed with the broth and the white part of a 
chopped leek, and a small turnip can be simmered \\dth the meat. 

Chicken Broth . — Pluck the fowl, remove the inside, being careful 
not to break the gaU-bag, and skin the bird like a rabbit, and be 
careful to take away every bit of fat from both the inside and the 
outside. Remove the head and feet, wash the bird well, and cut it 
into neat pieces ; put these into a stewpan wdth two quarts of cold 
water. The liver and gizzard of the .fowl may be cut into slices and 
put with the rest. Stew gently for about two hours. Take out the 
pieces of fowl, and leave the broth until the next day ; take off the 
fat, warm again, and serve. Pepper and salt to be added by the 
nurse or invalid. If flavoured broth be desired, three or four slices 
of celery, a blade of mace, and a sliced onion may be stewed v/ith the 
meat. . The meat may be picked from the bones and potted. 

Barley Crea^n. — Take one pound of lean veal, cut it into dice, 
and pour over it a pint and a half of cold water. Put a heaped table- 
spoonful of pearl barley into a small saucepan with a teacupful of 
cold water. Bring it to a boil, then pour away the water, and throw 
the barley in with the veal, and simmer all gently together for an 
hour and a half. Strain the liquor, and pound the barley and the 
veal together, then force all the pulp through a hair sieve with the 
back of a wooden spoon. Keep moistening it with hot liquor to 
make it go through more easily. When wanted for use, add salt 
and a quarter of a pint of sweet cream- 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



97 





Sunday, March 1st. 




Breakfast. 


Dinner. 


Tea. 


Supper. 


Sardines. 

DevHled Tia-key. 

Vienna Bread. 

Dry Toast. 

Honey. 

Brown and WTiite 
Bread and But- 
ter. 

Pori'idge. 


Sole3,filleted,rolled, 

and baked. 
Prairie Birds. 
Bacon. 

Brown Gravy. 
Bread Sauce. 
Stewed Celery. 
Potatoes. 
Apple Gateau. 


Brown and "WTiite 
Bread and Butter. 
Vienna Bread. 
Orange Marmalade. 
Kice Cake. 


Pressed Beef. 
Celery and Beetroot 

Salad. 
Ehiibarb Pie. 



Breakfast. — Sardines (January 12th); Devilled Turkey served as 
Grouse (January 7tli) ; Vienna Bread (August 26th) ; Porridge 
(January 25th). 

DiN'NER. — Soles, Filleted, Rolled, and Baked. — Fillet the soles {see 
Filleted Soles, January 4th), smooth the fillets with a knife, and roll 
them up, with the white skin inside. Grease a baking-tin A^dth butter, 
stand the rolled fillets in this, and sprinkle over each one salt, 
white pepper, and a few drops of lemon-juice. Grease a piece of 
kitchen paper and lay it over the fish to keep it from browning, and 
put the tin in the oven for five, or at most ten, minutes. Drain the 
fillets on paper, put them on a hot dish, and garnish by placing 
different coloured heaps alternately on the top of each little roll. 
A piece of chili chopped small, a little chopped parsley, chopped egg- 
yolk, pink ham finely minced, or, when it is to be had, a little heap 
of chopped truffle, will answer the purpose. Pour maitre d'hotel 
sauce (May 6th) round the rolls, or, if preferred, brown butter sauce 
may be used (February 12th). The stock for maitre d'hotel sauce 
may be made by stewing the heads, taUs, and fins of the fish in a pint 
of cold water. 

Prairie Birds. — Cook these birds just like grouse (August 30th), 
and send rashers of bacon, brown gravy, and bread sauce to table 
with them. Bacon (July 19th) ; Gravy (October 18th) ; Bread Sauce 
(October 18th) ; Stewed Celery (December 2nd); Potatoes (May 12th) ; 
Apple Gateau (September 24tli) ; Cheese (June 8th). 

SUPPEE.— Celery and Beetroot Salad (March 13th). 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Stew the outer sticks of the celery, and reserve the inner por- 
tion for the salad to be served at supper. 

2. If the requirements of the family are so limited that the legs 
of the birds can be left untouched at dinner-time, they will be excel- 
lent devilled for breakfast. {See Devilled Drumsticks, January 14th.) 

3. If any boiled beetroot is left it should be covered with vinegar 
and preserved. It will keep for a long time, and will be excellent 
for sakds. 

4. Put a breakfast-cupful of German lentils to soak in plenty uf 
cold water. 



98 



A YEARS COOKERY. 



March 2nd 



Breakfast. 

Toasted Bacon. 

Toasted Eggs. 

Vienna Bread. 

Honey. 

Dry Toast. 

Brown and White Bread 

and Bntter. 
Bread and Milk. 



Lunclieon. 

Eissoles (made of remains 

of Pressed Beef). 
Tapiocp and Eice, baked. 



Dinner. 

Game Soup. 
Stewed Steak. 
Boiled Lentils. 
Potatoes. 
Gooseberry Tart, 
Cbeese. 



Marketing, 

For the Day.— Three pounds of tender Steak, cut evenly and about one and a 
half inches thick. {See Marketing, January 1st.) Potatoes. 

For To-morrow.— To be sent first thina: in the morning, four pounds thick 
Flank of Beef ; a bundle of Rhubarb. Scotch Barley and Dried Peas will be 
wanted. 



Breakfast. —Toasted Bacon and Toasted Eggs (January 19th) 3 
Vienna Bread (August 26tli) ; Bread and Milk (January 25th). 

Luncheon. — Eissoles (January 6th). Tapioca and Rice, Baked. 
— Wash half a tea-cupful of rice and liaK a tea-cupful of tapioca. 
Put them into a j^ie-dish, and pour over them about three pints 
of skim milk (^fresli milk is, of course, to be preferred). Place a 
small piece of butter the size of a threepenny-piece in the dish, 
and bake in a moderately-heated oven. When a brown skin covers 
tlie surface of the pudding it is done enough. It will take from one 
and a half to two hours. 

Dinner. — Game Soup, from the bones and trimmings of the 
prairie hen (February 16th). Stewed Steak (January 31st). Boiled 
Lentils. — Drain the lentils, and boil them in about three times their 
bulk of water. In about half an hour they will be tender without 
being broken at all. Drain them, and return them to the saucepan,, 
with a slice of fresh butter, a little pepper and salt, and a table- 
spoonful of vinegar. Shake them over the fire till they are quite 
hot, and serve immediately. To make them very good, melt an ounce 
of butter in a clean stewpan, and throw in a small onion finely 
chopped. Stir in a tea-spoonful of flour, add pepper and salt to 
taste, and sufficient stock and vinegar mixed to make a thick sauca 
Put in the lentils, and simmer for ten or fifteen minutes. Potatoes 
(April 7th) ; Gooseberry Tart (August 7th) ; Cheese (June Sth). 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. To malce Braivn. — Wash the pig's head lightly, cut off the- 
ears, and put them, with the pig's feet, in a small saucepan, and 
boil them for an hour and a half. Take them up, drain them, and 
put them, with the head, into a larger pan ; cover all with cold water, 
and boil for about two hours — less or more, according to the size 0/ 



A YEAR'S COOKERY, 



99 



the head, but they should boil until the flesh can be removed 
from the bones. Lift the head out, remove the bones, skin the 
tongue, bone the ears, and cut all into small pieces. Put the bones 
back into the saucepan with two pints of the liquor in which the 
head was boiled. Throw in a large onion cut into slices, two blades 
of mace, six cloves, six allspice, and a small tea-spoonful of pepper- 
corns, two bay leaves, and a sprig of thyme. Bring the liquor to a 
boi], then take off the lid and boil the stock quickly for half an hour, 
or until half a pint has boiled away. Strain it, put it back into the 
saucepan with the cut meat, boil up once more, taste it, and, if neces- 
sary, season it further ; put it into a wet mould (or into two moulds), 
and let it staiid till firm. Turn it out upon a dish, garnish with 

Earsley, and it is ready to serve. If liked, a pound or two of salted 
eef or of gammon of bacon can be boiled with the brawn, and the 
addition will be a great improvement. When a whole pig's head is 
taken the butcher may be asked to cut out the cheeks, ancl these can 
be cured and boiled separately. {See Januaiy 7th and 8th.) 

2. The brine must be thrown away after a pig's head has been 
pickled in it. 

3. Make a rhubarb mould for to-morrow (June 3rd). 

4. Put a tea- cupful of split peas to soak all night in cold water. 



March 3rd 



Breakfast. 

Ox Eyc3. 

Brawu, with. Brawn Sauce, 

Buttered Toast, 

Dry Toast, 

Brown and. Wliito Bread 

and Butter, 
Milk Toaat. 



Luncheon. 

Poor Man's Goose. 
Lemon Cheesecakes, 



Dinner. 

Scotch Broth. 
Boiled Beef. 
Potatoes. 
Ehubarb Mould. 
Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— About one pound and a half of the Fry of a small Pig (February 
7th) ; Potatoes and Vegetables for Scotch Broth (see recipe). 

For To-morrow.— Whdting (see Marketing, January 17th) ; a well-hung Leg of 
Mutton (January 8th). 



Bkeakfast.— Ox Eyes (June 5th) ; Brawn (March 2nd) ; Brawn 
Sauce (January 15th); Milk Toast (June 17th). 

Luncheon.— Poor Man's Goose (February 7th) ; Lemon Cheese- 
cakes (August 18th). 

Dinner. — Scotch Broth and Boiled Beef. — Take a tea-cupful of 
pearl barley, wash it well, ancl (supposing there are four pounds of 
beef) put it into a saucepan with four (piarts of cold water. Whilst 
it is heating prepare the vegetables— t]iat is, a moderate-sized 
cabbage, three leeks, a large turnip, and a large carrot, (^ut the 
cabbage into fine shreds and the turnip into dice. Trim away the 



100 



A YEARS COOKERY. 



green part and the outside leaves of the leeks, and cut the white part 

into small pieces. Throw the vegetables (excepting only the carrot) 
into cold water till they are wanted, and before using drain them. 
Scrape the carrot to pulp. When the water boils, put in the beef, and 
throw in all the vegetables. Boil for three minutes, then draw the 
stewpan back, and simmer all gently till the meat is tender. It will 
take about four hours altogether. When the meat is done enough — 
which it will be in about two hours — ^take it up and put it away, then 

Eut it back in time to get hot again before it is wanted. Serve the 
roth in a tureen, like soup, and serve the meat on a separate dish. 
If liked, mutton or lamb can be used instead of beef. Scotch broth, 
made hot, is as good the second day as it is the first. Potatoes 
(April Vth) ; Rhubarb Mould (June 3rd) ; Cheese (June 8th). 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 
Be particularly careful in making the Scotch broth to skim it 
frequently. Also remember to cover the Pig's Fry with paper before 
baking it. 



March 4th. 



Breakfast. 

Fried "WTiitIng, 

Brawn, with Brawn Sauce. 

Buttered Toast. 

Dry Toast. 

Honey. 

Brown and White Bread 

and Butter. 
Corn-flour Milk. 



Luncheon. 



ScotcL Broth. 
Beef. 



Dinner. 

stewed Eels. 
Roast Leg of Mutton, 
Yorkshire Pudding. 
Baked Potatoes. 
Turuip Tops. 
Lfeche Crenie. 
Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— Two pounds of Silyer Eels {see Marketing, January 2ith) ; half 
a pound of Ratafias ; a pennyworth of Parsley ; Potatoes, Turnip-tops. 

For To-morrow.— K Ham is not already in the house, a slice from the middle 
of a lately-cured Ham. 

Breakfast. — Fried Whiting (January 17th) ; Brawn (March 
2nd) ; Brawn Sauce (January 15th) ; Corn-flour Milk (June 19th). 

Luncheon. — Scotch Broth and Beef. — The beef may, if liked, be 
made hot in the soup, or, if preferred, it can be eaten cold with 
pickles. If broken remnants only are left, they may be made into 
croquettes. 

Dinner.— Stewed Eels (January 24th). Eoast Leg of Mutton. 
To Roast Meat. — Meat is best when it is roasted before an open fire, 
and that is about the only thing for which an open range is to be 
preferred. The first thing to be looked after is the fire, and this 
should be made up an hour before it is wanted. The dust must be 
thoroughly cleared out from the bottom of the grate, the hot coals 



^ YE Alt' S COOKERY. 101 



Enshecl to the front, and fresh coals put at the back. These should not 
e thrown on, but laid on with the fingers, the pieces being packed 
rather closely, but still arranged so that air can pass freely between 
them when the fire is clear, bright, and fierce. Just at the same 
time the hearth should be cleared up, and the cinders, mixed with a 
little coal-dust slightlj^ wetted, should be thrown at the back. The 
meat should now be looked over, and any unsightly jagged pieces 
there may be trimmed away. In a leg of mutton or lamb, the knuckle- 
bone should be cut off, and the piece of flank, as well as the thick 
piece of skin from the part near the loin, removed. In the sirloin ana 
ribs of beef, the soft pipe that runs down the bone should be cut out. 
If there is any doubt about the cleanliness of the joint, it should be 
well scraped, and wiped with a damp cloth. If it can be avoided, 
however, it should not be washed, as that draws aut its goodness. If, 
however, it is at all tainted, it should be washed quickly with vinegar 
and water, and wiped dry as quicldy as possible. The dripping-tin, 
with a large liunp of dripping in it, should be put before the fire a 
quarter of an hour before the meat is hung on the spit ; at the 
same time the meat-screen, if there be one, should be placed ready, 
and the meat should be so hung that the thickest part catches the 
heat from the centre of the fire. For the first five minutes or so the 
joint should be put near the fire, in order that the surface may be 
quickly hardened, and so the juice may be kept in ; afterwards the joint 
should be drawn back and roasted more slowly. An exception to 
this rule should be made with frozen meat, which should at first be 
hung at a distance from the fire and drawn gradually nearer. Basting 
with the dripping melted for the purpose should commence almost 
immediately after the joint is hung on the spit, and should be re- 
peated as frequently as possible, for on constant basting the excellence 
of a roasted joint greatly depends. Of course, it is the lean part that 
needs basting. Poultry and game need to be very well basted. The 
time required for roasting depends upon the quality, nature, and 
thickness of the meat, and its distance from the fire. As a general rule, 
brown meats should be allowed a quarter of an hour per pound and a 
quarter of an hour over ; white meats, twenty minutes to the pound 
and twenty minutes over ; but even brown meats, when they are 
boned, or when they are very solid, such as the topside of the round 
of^ beef, rolled ribs of beef, or rolled loin of mutton, need twenty 
minutes to the pound if they are to be well done. In deciding the 
time required for roasting, the thickness of meat should be con- 
sidered as well as its weight. If the joint is not a good colour, 
it may be drawn nearer again at the end, when a little salt (and 
salt only, not flour) may be sprinkled over it. All white meats 
are improved by being wrapped in greased paper before they are 
put down to the fire. This paper should be removed twenty 
minutes or so before the joint is taken down, in order that it may 
acquire colour. With regard to the dripping in the tin and the 
gravy to be served \vith roasted joints, see June 9th. For roasting, 



10? 



A YEARS COOKERY. 



or rather baking, joints in a close range, see March 9th. Yorkshire 
Pudding (November 26th) ; Baked Potatoes (May 4th) ; Turnip-tops 
(June 4th) ; L^che Creme (May 7th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 

Things: that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Stew the shank-bone to make gravy. 

2. Turn the dripping that was in the tin into a basin. It will be 
excellent for various purposes, and when cold will have some very 
good gravy underneath it. 



March 5th. 



Breakfast. 


Luncheon. 


Dinner. 


Fried Ham. 


stewed Ox Kidney. 


Sole au Gratin. 


Fried Eggs. 


Plain Suet Dumpling. 


Cold Mutton, 


Buttered Toast. 




Salad. 


Dry Toai^t. 




Baked Potatoes. 


Marmalade. 




Treacle Pudding. 


Brown and White Bread and 




Cheese. 


Butter. 






Porridge. 







Marketing. 

For the Day.— One rresh Ox Kidney ; a pair of good-sized thick Soles {see 
January 3rd) ; two Lettuces ; half an Endive ; a pennj^worth of Water- 
cress ; a half- pennyworth of small Salad; a pennyworth of boiled 
Beetroot ; half a pound of firm beef Suet ; Potatoes. 

For To-morrow.— Bloaters (one for each person will probably be sufficient); 
a Silvcrside of Beef, weighing about eight poimds (see January 13th) ; 
ingredients for making Brine {see January 13th). 

Breakfast. — Fried Ham. — Melt a little bacon fat or dripping 
in a frying-pan ; put in the ham, and fry it very gently till done 
enough. Turn it six or eight times during the process, or it will 
be hard. Fried Eggs. — When done enough, lift the ham upon a 
hot dish, and put a little more fat into the frying-pan. Break the 
eggs separately into a cup, then slip them dexterously into the hot 
fat, and fry them gently till set. As many eggs as the pan will 
contain may be put in at one time, provided always that they do not 
touch each other. The ham will be done enough in about ten 
minutes ; the eggs in about two minutes. Porridge (January 25th). 

Luncheon. — Stewed Ox Kidney (April 2nd) ; Plain Suet Dump- 
Hng (May 13th). 

Dinner. — Sole au Gratin (May 3rd) ; Mutton roasted yesterday ; 
Salad (March 13ch); Baked Potatoes (Muy 4th); Treacle Pudding 
(March 28th); Cheese (June 8th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Keep the bloaters apart from any other food. 

2. Make brine (January 13th), and when it is cold put the silver- 
side of beef into it. 



A YEAKS COOKERY. 



103 



3. If any beetroot is left, put it into a jar and cover it with 

vinegar. It will keep for some time, and may be used either for 
Balad or as pickle. 



March 6th. 



Breakfast. 


Luncheon. 


Dinner. 


Bloaters. 


Mutton Tarts, made of re- 


Half-a-dozen Oysters each, 


Brawn and TJrawu Sauce. 


mains of cold mutton. 


with Brown Bread and 


Buttered Toast. 


Eemains of Suet Dumpling 


Butter and cut Lemon. 


Dry Toast. 


toasted, and served with 


Boiled Eabbits. 


Bro'ivn and White Bread and 


Jam. 


Bacon. 


Butter. 




Onion Sauce. 


Marmalade. 




Mashed Potatoes. 


Bread and Milk. 




Town Pudding. 






Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.- Fresh Oysters (February 14th) ; a couple of Ostend Rabbits, 
trussed for boiling (January 21th) ; Bacon, about two pounds, to be boiled 
{see Marketing, January 3rd) ; Spanish Onions, Potatoes, Rhubarb, Apples ; 
German Yeast. 

For To-morrow.— A couple of fresh, unsalted Pig's Feet (February 7th) ; one 
tin of preserved Prawns. 

Breakfast. — Bloaters (January 3rd) ; Brawn (March 2nd) ; 
Brawn Sauce (January 15tb) ; Bread and Milk (January 25tli). 

Luncheon. — It is probable there will be only unsightly pieces of 
meat left on the mutton-bone ; tliese may be minced and made into 
mutton pies (January 3rd), or mutton tart (January 10th). {Set 
Note 4 below.) Ilemains of Suet DumiMng, Toasted. — Cut the 
dumpling into neat slices half an inch thick. Place these on the 
pins of a Dutch-oven, and toast them before the fire til! hot through 
and lightly browned. Or, if preferred, put them in a dripping-tin 
and make them hot in the oven. Serve on a hot dish, with treacle 
or jam. 

Dinner. — Boiled Rabhits. — If requested to do so, the poulterer will 
skin and truss the rabbits. Should he omit the business, however, 
proceed as follows : — Make a slit under the body, and take out all 
that is inside. Break the first joint, and cut round the skin of each 
leg. Begin to draw off the skin at the hind legs, and draw it over 
the fore legs, and, last of all, over the head. Tike out the eyes ; wasli 
the rabbits inside and out, and let them soak for ten minutes in luke- 
warm water. Wipe them well, and truss them, with the hind legs for- 
ward, the fore legs backward, the head fastened to the side by means 
of a skev/er passed through the ej'-es and body. Put the rabbits into 
boiling water, as much as wnll cover them ; let them boil up, skim 
the liquor, and simmer them gently till done enough. They will 
take from three-quarters or an hour to an hour. Lift them upon a 
hot dish, and cover them quite over with onion sauce, and serve 



104 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



more onion sauce in a tureen. The bacon may either be boiled to 
serve with the rabbit or it may be cut into rashers and toasted {see 
January 19th). Some cooks cut the rabbits into joints before 
sending them to table. Liver sauce may be substituted for onion 
sauce if the flavour of onions is disliked. Bacon (]\larch 30th) ; 
Onion Sauce (October 14th) ; Liver Sauce (December 22nd) ; Mashed 
Potatoes (May 12th); Town Pudding (December 3rd); Cheese (June 
8th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Turn the beef in the brine. 

2. Stew the mutton-bone in water for stock {see February 13th). 

3. Carefully preserve the liquor in which the rabbit was boiled. 

4. Pastry to be made to-day (April l/th). Rhubarb pie, apple 
pie, open jam tart (August 7th); also tea-cakes (August 26th), sultana 
cake (August 2nd). The trimmings of the pies can be used to make 
the mutton pies for luncheon to-day, and the apple balls for to- 
morrow (March 7th). 

5. Prepare the pig's feet for breakfast to-morrow {see Note, 
February 7th). 



March 7th. 



Breakfast. 

Tinned Prawns. 

Pigs' Feet, with Brawn 

Sauce. 
Tea-cakes. 
Dry Toast. 
Honey. 
Brown and Wliite Bread 

and Butter. 
Milk Porridge. 



Luncheon. 

Rabbit Gateau (made of tbe 
remnants of rabbit). 

Apple Balls (made witb 
trimmings of pastry). 



Dinner. 

CroUte avi Pot. 
Beef Stewed with 

tables. 
Potatoes. 
Ebubarb Pie. 
Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— Three pounds of the Muscle of the Leg of Beef, cut in one piece 
from large meat, (^ee Marketing, January 27th.) Potatoes. 

For To-morrow.— One penny^vorth of Parsley ; one dozen fresh Scallops, The 
fish are alive if they close their shells when touched. A good Sirloin of Beef 
(the fillet end is the best), weigliing about eight pounds (see January 10th) ; a 
fi'esh Cocoa-nut, or a small tin of Desiccated Cocoa-nut ; two Endive ; a 
pennyworth of Beetroot ; two pennyworth of Watercress ; and two penny- 
worth of small Salad ; a tin of Pi-eserved Peaches. For breakfast on 
Monday— one tin of Potted Pheasant ; a bottle of Anchovies, if the others 
were finished. Potatoes j Celery. 



Breakfast. — Tinned Prawns (February 7th) ; Pigs' Feet prepared 
last night ; Brawn Sauce (January 15th) ; Tea-cakes (February 14th) ; 
Tylilk Porridge (June 13th). 

Luncheon. — Rabbit (bateau (July 9th). Apple Balls.— V^^yq some 
large baking apples, apd core without dividing them. Ptoll out 



A YEARS COOKERY. 



105 



some pastry, and stamp two circles about four inches in diameter 
for each apple. Press one half on one side, the apple and the other 
half on the opposite side. Wet the edges, and join the two pieces 
securely, thus covering the apple entirely witli pastry. Lay the 
balls on a greased tin, and bake in a moderately-heated oven 
till the pastry is crisp. They will take about three-quarters of an 
hour. 

Dinner. — Croute au Pot (May 25th) ; Muscle of Beef stewed with 
Vegetables (March 17th); Potatoes (May 12th); Rhubarb Pie (Au- 
gust 7th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Turn the beef in the brine. 

2. Cut off the flap of the sirloin of beef, and put it in the brine. 

3. Prepare the scallops for breakfast to-morrow — it mil save 
time to-morrow morning. For this, open the shells and trim away 
the beards and the black portion, leaving only the yellow part and the 
white, which looks something like the flesh of a crab's claw. Wash the 
parts that are to be used, and drain them. Mince the meat, and mix with 
it a third of its bulk in finely-grated bread-crumbs, a liberal allowance 
of pepper and salt, and a little chopped parsley. A heaped table- 
spoonful of chopped parsley will suffice for a dozen scallops. Scour 
out the deeper scallop shells, wash and dry them, and allow one 
shell for three scallops. Butter the inside thickly, sprinkle bread- 
crumbs over ; put m the minced fish, cover it again with bread- 
crumbs, and lay little pieces of butter here and there on the top. Put 
the shells in a hot oven, or in a Dutch-oven before the fire, and let 
them remain until the preparation is brown on the surface and 
heated throughout. Serve (very hot) in the shells. Send vinegar to 
table with the fish. The scallop shells should be taken care of, as 
they can be used again and again for scalloped fish. 





Sunday, March 8th. 




Breakfast. 


Dinner. 


Tea. 


Supper. 


ScaUops. 


Potatoe Pur€e. 


Brown and White 


Cold Beef. 


Pigs' Feet, with 


Roast SMoin of 


Bread and Butter. 


Salad. 


Brawn Sauce. 


Beef, 


Preserved Peaches. 


Open Jam Tart. 


Tea-cakes. 


Mashed Potatoes. 


Sultana Cake. 


Cheese. 


Watercress. 


Stewed Celery. 






Dry Toast. 


Cocoa-unt Pudding. 






Brown and White 


Cheese. 






Bread and Butter. 








Milk Toast. 









Breakfast. — Scallops {see Note 3, March 7th) ; Pigs' Feet left 
from breakfast yesterday ; P'rawn Sauce (January 15th) ; Tea-cakes 
(February 14th) ; Milk Toast (June 17th). 



IOC A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



Dinner. — Potatoe Puree (January 26tli). Roast Sirloin of Beef. 
— To lloast, or, to speak correctly, to Bake meat in the oven of a 
Idtchener. — The majority of joints are never so good as when roasted 
before an open fire. This plan involves, however, such a waste of 
fuel that close ranges are now used, and what is very commonly 
called roasted meat is meat baked in an oven provided with a venti- 
lator, which allows the vapours given off by the meat to escape. 
Besides the ventilator, many ovens have a thermometer fastened- to 
them, by which the heat may be regulated. To bake meat, this should 
reach 240° Fahr. The method of heating the oven varies with the 
description of the range, full instructions being given by the makers 
who supply the article. To bake the meat, trim it neatly, and in the 
case of a sirloin of beef cut away the soft pipe that runs down the 
bone, and the superfluous suet, leaving it about an inch deep all 
along. In order to keep the tin and the meat from burning, a hot- 
v/ater tin is much to be preferred for baking meat. This tin is 
provided with an under-tin for holding warm water, on the top of 
which is a tray on which the meat-stand can be placed. In a corner of 
the tray there is a hole for the steam to escape. In filling the under- 
tin care should be taken to supply only as much water as will be suffi- 
cient to come just below the hole, but not to cover it. But whether this 
hot-water tin is used or not, there must be a raised stand upon which 
the meat can be laid, for if it is baked in its own dripping it will be 
sodden and quite spoilt. When the oven is hot enough, put the meat 
on the stand, the fat side uppermost, to begin with, and close the 
ventilator for about five minutes, till the surface of the meat is 
hardened, to keep in the juices. At the end of this time open the 
ventilator that the steam may escape, and baste the meat liberally 
every quarter of an hour. With the oven properly heated it will 
take ten minutes for every pound, and ten minutes over. Solid 
pieces of meat, however, such as rolled ribs of beef or the top side of 
the round, should be allowed a quarter of an hour to a pound, and a 
quarter of an hour over. When the meat is half cooked, turn it 
over. The reason for putting the fat part to the top first is that the 
upper part cooks more quickly, and, therefore, as the fat melts it 
drops down upon the lean under portion, and serves to' baste it. 
Joints that are not fat should be covered over with kitchen paper, 
upon which dripping has been thickly spread. Ten minutes before 
the joint is taken up sprinkle a little salt over it, baste it well, and 
then do not baste it any more, or the outer cut will taste greasy. 
Put the joint on a hot dish, and place it near the fire where it 
will keep hot. Pour the gravy round but not over it, and serve 
veiy hot. Gravy (June 9th) ; ]\Iashed Potatoes (J\lay 12th) ; Stewed 
Celery (December 2nd) ; Cocoa-nut Pudding (August 8tli) ; Cheese 
(June 8th). 

Tea.— Preserved Peaches (April lltli); Sultana Cake (August 
2nd). 

Sttpper.- Salad (March 13th) ; Open Jam Tart fAr.oust 7th). 



A YEAKS COOKERY. 



107 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Turn tlie beef in the brine. 

2. When preparing the salad, remember to keep half of tlie 
mustard and cress for breakfast on March 9th. 

3. Put a breakfast -cupful of white haricot beans to soak all night 
in cold water. 



March 9th 



Breakfast. 


Luncheon. 


Dinner. 


Anchovies, witli hard-boiled 


Flap of Beef, boiled with 


Haricot Pur^e. 


Eggs, 


Turnips and Carrots. 


" Croquettes, made of remains 


Potted Pheasant. 


Plain Sago Pudding. 


of Beef. 


Tea-cakes. 




Best end of Neck of Mutton, 


Dry Toast. 




roasted. 


Watercress. 




Baked Potatoes. 


Brown and White Bread 




Apple Pie. 


and Butter. 




Cheese. 


Porridge. 







Marketing. 

For the Day.— A whole Neck of Mutton, not too fat {see February 5th) ; Turnips, 

Carrots, Potatoes. 
For To-morrow.— A four-pound tin of Australian Mutton. 

Breakfast. — Potted Pheasant (January 7th) ; Anchovies, with 
hard-boiled Eggs (January 18th) ; Tea-cakes (February 14th) ; Por- 
ridge (January 25th). 

Luncheon, — Flap of Beef, cut from the Sirloin, boiled with 
Turnips and Carrots {see February 23rd). Plain Sarjo rudding. — 
Wash a tea-cupful of sago, put it into a dish, pour over it a pint of 
milk and a pint of water, and let it soak for half an hour. Put 
with it an inch or two of lemon-rind, or any suitable flavouring, 
and a little piece of butter the size of a threepenny-piece. Bake 
it in a gentle oven till done enough. It will take about two hours 
and a half. Send sugar to table with it. 

DiNNEPv,. — Haricot Puree. — Slice an onion, put it with the haricot 
beans, and boil them in three pints of water for four hours. Pass the 
liquid through a sieve, and nib the beans through with the back of a 
wooden spoon. Season the soup with pepper and salt, and make 
it hot ; put a pint and a half of boiling milk with it, and serve. 
Toasted bread cut into dice should be sent to table with the pur^e. 
Croquettes made of remains of Beef (Rissoles and Croquettes, January 
Cth) ; Best end of the Neck of Mutton, roasted (jMeat, to Roast, March 
4th) ; Baked Potatoes (May 4th) ; Apple Pie (Augaist 7th) ; Cheese 
(June 8th). 

Things that nmst not be Forgotten. 

1. Turn the beef in the brine. 

2. Stew the beef -bone in the liquor in which the flap of beef was 
boiled (February 13th). 



108 A YEAR'S COOKERY. 

3. Render down tlie unused fat of the beef {see February 19th). 

4. Wash a pound of prunes, and put them to soak in a pint of 
water. 



March lOth. 



Breakfast. 

Savoury Eggs. 

Potted Pheasant. 

Hot Toast. 

Dry Toast. 

Honey. 

Brown and WTiite Bread 

and Butter. 
Milk Toast. 



Luncheon. i Dinner. 

Australian Meat, cold, with I Skate, with Brown Butter 

Baked Potatoes. Sauce. 

Stewed Prunes. ; Irish Stew. 

Potatoes. 

Wyvem Puddings. 

Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— Two pounds of Crimped Skate (see January 10th). If it seem as 
though there would not be enough mutton for dinner, an additional scrag 
end of the Neck of Mutton may be bought ; Potatoes. 

For To-morrow.— A Tin of Sardines ; four Sheep's Kidneys, fine, plump, and 
perfectly fresh ; half a pound of Bacon (if not in the house) ; one tin of pre- 
served Tomatoes ; Muffins. (See Marketing, January 29th.) 

Breakfast. — Savoury Eggs (January 1st) ; Potted Pheasant {see 
Remarks on Potted Grouse, jNIarketing, January 7th) ; Milk Toast 
(June 17th). 

Luncheon. — Australian Meat, cold (Pebruary 4th) ; Baked 
Potatoes (May 4th) ; Stewed Prunes (February 27th). 

Dinner. — Skate, with Brown Butter Sauce (February 12th). 
Irish Stew. — Take the remains of the neck of mutton : there will 
probably be about three pounds. Trim away very nearly all the fat, 
cleanse the scrag end of the neck, and cut the meat into pieces 
convenient for serving. Weigh the trimmed meat ; pare some 
potatoes, and take twice the weight of the meat in pared potatoes. 
Take also six or eight onions, the quantity to be increased or di- 
minished according to taste. Skin them, cover them with boiling 
water for a few minutes, and cut them into slices crossways, so that 
they will fall into rings. Boil the potatoes for a quarter of an hour, 
drain them, and cut them in slices. Season the pieces of meat plen 
tifully with pepper and slightly with salt ; put them in a stewpan, 
cover them with cold water, and simmer very gently for haK an hour. 
Pour off the liquor into a basin, and let this stand, surrounded by 
cold water, till the grease rises and can be cleared from it. Irish 
stew ought not to be greasy, and by this means the grease can be 
removed. Cover the bottom of the pan with slices of potatoes and 
onions, put in the meat, v/ith additional pepper and salt if required, 
cover with potatoes and onions, and pack all rather closely together. 
Pour on the liquor (free from grease), with water to cover barely the 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



109 



topmost layer ; put the lid tightly on the stewpan, and simmer very 
gently for an hour and a half. The stew should taste decidedly 
peppery. It must not hoil in cooking. As, if it is properly cooked, 
the potatoes and onions will be almost reduced to a mash, it is likely 
that additional potatoes will be required for dinner. Potatoes (April 
7th) ; Wyvern Puddings (May 9th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Turn the beef in the brine. 

2. Take care of the fat cut from the neck of mutton ; it can be 
rendered do^vn for frying purposes, 

3. Before serving the Australian meat, carefully pick off the fat 
(to be melted down for frying), and take away the jelly, which will be 
a valuable addition to stock or gravy. 



March llth. 



Breakfast. 


Luncheon. 


Dinner. 


Sardines. 

Kidneys and Bacon. 

Muffins. 

Dry Toast. 

Marmalade. 

Brown and Wliite Bread and 

Butter. 
MUk Porridge. 


Savoiu-y Hash, of Australian 

Meat. 
Stewed Khubarb. 


Tomato Pur^e (made of 

preserved Tomatoes). 
Stewed Steak. 
Potatoes. 
Tui-nip Tops. 
Brown Bread Pudding. 
Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— Three pounds of tender Steak cut evenly, and an inch and a half 
thick. (Marketing, January 1st.) Rhubarb, Potatoes, and Turnip-tops. 

For To-morrow.— A tin of Collared Tongue (see Marketing, January 2nd and 
February ith) ; two-pennyworth of Watercress ; and a pennyworth of young 
Radishes ; Pai-sley, Apples, and Beetroot. 

Breakfast. — Sardines (January 12th) ; Kidneys and Bacon 
(January 2nd) ; Muffins (January 30th) ; Milk Porridge (June 13th). 

Luncheon. — Savoury Hash of Australian Meat (February 5th) : 
Stew*i Rhubarb (May 19th). 

Dinner. — Tomato Fiuree. — Mince finely a shalot and a small 
onion, and fry these with either a slice of bacon cut small or with 
one or two strips of bacon-rind, and the contents of a two-pound tin 
of preserved tomatoes. When fresh tomatoes are in season, half-a- 
dozen fresh tomatoes cut into slices should be used, and are, of 
course, to be preferred. Pass the tomatoes through a hair sieve. 
Boil about three pints of nicely-flavoured stock. When boiling, stir 
in two table- spoonfuls of crushed tapioca; keep stirring till the 
tapioca looks clear ; add the tomatoes ; make all hot together, season 
with pepper and a little salt, if required, and serve. Stewed Steak 



110 



A YEAE'S COOKERY, 



(January 31st); Potatoes (M?iy 12tli); Turnip Tops (June 4th); Brown 
Bread Pudding (July 20th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 



Tilings that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Turn the beef in the brine. 

2. Fiemember that the brown bread pudding can be made of 
broken pieces of broAvn bread, if there are any. 

3. Put the stalks of the watercress into water all night. 

4. If liked, the rice for luncheon to-morrow can be prepared over- 
night (January 2Sth). 

5. Leave a rasher of bacon for the macaroni on March 12th. 



March 12th. 



Breakfast. 

Collared ToHgue. 
V/atercress aud Eadislies. 
Hot Buttered Toast. 
Dry Toast. 
Brown and White Bread and 

Butter, 
Porridge. 



Luncheon. 

Macaroni and Bacon- 
Rice witli Apples aud Beet- 
root. 



Dinner. 

Fried Whiting. 

Boiled Silverside of Beef. 

Mashed Turnips. 

Carrots. 

Potatoes. 

Semolina Pudding. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— Whiting, one for each person (see January 17th) ; eight poxinds 
of the thin end of the Flank of Beef, cut as square as possible ; Turnips, 
Carrots, Potatoes. 

For To-morrow.— A tin of Oysters ; a pint of Split Peas. 

Breakfast. — Collared Tongue (see Marketing, January. 2nd). 

Watei'cress and young Radishes. — Cut the stalks off the watercress 
aiid lay it in a dish. Wash the radishes and take the tops off, scrape 
thft roots slightly, and slit each one twice across to make it look 
something like an open flower. ISIake a bed of watercress in a dish, 
lay the cut radishes on this, and place a small salt-cellar in the middle 
of the dish, which is now ready for the table. Watercress and radishes 
thus arranged have a very pretty efl"ect, and afford a pleasant variety 
for the breakfast-table. — Porridge (January 25th). 

Luncheon". — Macaroni and Bacon (January 27th) ; Bice with 
Apples and Beetroot (January 2Sth). 

Dinner. — Fried Whiting (January iVth); Boiled Silverside of 
Beef (February 23rd) ; Mashed Turnips (September 30th) ; Carrots 
(July 6th) ; Potatoes (April 7th). Semolina Pudding. — Put a pint 
and a half of milk into a saucepan with three table-spoonfuls 
of semolina. Put the saucepan on the fire, and stir the milk 
occasionally till it boils and the semolina swells. J^et it cool, then 
stir into it two well-beaten eggs, and add moist sugar to sweeten 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



Ill 



it. Butter a quart pie-dish, pour the mixture into it, grate a little 
nutmeg oyer the top, and bake in a well-heated oven. When the 
pudding is set, and a coloured skin forms on the top, it is done 
enougli. It will take about three-quarters of an hour. Cheese (June 
8th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Take the marrow out of the beef -bone when it comes from 
tal)le. It can be made into marrow toast for breakfast to-morrow. 

2. Boil the brine with an additional handful of salt, and when it 
is cold put the thin flank of beef into it. 

3. Put a brcalvfast-cupful of split peas to soak iu cold water all 
night. 



March 13th 



Breakfast. 

Marrow Toast. 

Collared Tougue. 

Di-y Toast. 

Brown aud White Bread 

and Butter. 
Marmalade. 
Bread and Milk. 



Luncheon. 

Scalloped Oysters (made of 

tinned Oysters). 
Baked Plum Pudding. 



Dinner. 

Pea Soup. 
Cold Beef. 
Salad. 

Baked Potatoes. 
Cocoa-nut Pudding. 
\ 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— A bundle of Rhubarb ; three heads of Lettuce ; one pennyworth 
of Beetroot ; a half-pennyworth of small salad ; Watercress ; one fine Cocoa- 
nut, or a tin of Desiccated Cocoa-nut, if there is none in the house ; Potatoes , 
Yeast. 

For To-morrow.— A good-sized dried Haddock ; a Melton Mowbray Pork Pie ; 
half or the whole of a Canadian Ham. If it be permitted, order three-penny- 
worth of Cream for the Rhubarb Pie on Sunday evening. 

Breakfast. — Marrow Toast (January 21st) ; Collared Tongue 
(January 2nd) ; Bread and Milk (January 25th). 

Luncheon. — Scalloped Oysters (April 27th); Baked Plum Pudding 
(February 25th). 

Dinner.— Pea Soup (Lentil Soup, April 1st). Beef, boiled yester- 
day. Salad. — Pick off any decayed portions there may be, cleanse the 
vegetables, drain and dry them. The excellence of a salad consists 
to a considerable extent on its being thoroughly dry. In a French 
kitchen the lettuces are not supposed to be washed at all ', they 
are picked to pieces, and each leaf is cleaned separately with a 
soft napkin. In England, however, it is too frequently the custom 
to let the salad lie in water for two or three hours before it is 
wanted, " to make it taste fresh," and the result is the utter ruin 
•jf the salad. If any moisture is allowed to hang about the 
leaves, the dressing, instead of coating the salad, will sink to the 
bottom of the bowl like a sauce, and the preparation wiU taste 



112 A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



hot and damp, instead of cool and refresliing. The easiest way of 
drying a salad when it must be washed (as is certainly the case 
very often) is to place it, a small portion at a time, in a clean dry 
towel, then drawing the four corners of the cloth together shake it 
well to make the moisture leave the vegetable and sink into the cloth. 
When thoroughly dried, the leaves may be arranged in the salad 
bowl, due care being taken to make them look as pretty as possible, 
by contrasting the colours. The dressing ought not to be mixed with 
the vegetables until the last moment ; indeed, many people prefer that 
the business should be performed by one of the family at the table. 
Salad-dressings of various kinds are sold ready prepared. Many of 
them are very good ; but as a rule they are expensive, and it will be 
found that the true epicure prefers the simple cruet-sauce to the best 
of them. This for a bowl of salad may be made as follows. Put into 
the salad-spoon a small spoonful of salt and half a tea-spoonful of 
pepper. Mix the ingredients to a paste with a little vinegar, then add 
more vinegar to make a brimming spoonful. Toss the salad lightly, 
but very thoroughly, in this for a minute or two ; then add three 
table-spoonfuls of fine Lucca oil. Toss the salad first ^^ith the oil and 
then with its appropriate garniture, and serve. The garniture must 
vary with the time of year, and with the nature of the salad. For 
endive salad a chajyon — that is, a crust of bread that has been rubbed 
with a clove of garlic — is excellent ; or, where garlic is objected to, 
two sliced tomatoes may be used instead. For celery salad, shalot 
and parsley can be used. For lettuce, a ravigote — that is, a sprinkling 
of chopped tarragon, chervil, burnet, and cliives — is better than any- 
thing else. Fortunately, the herbs are most easily to be obtained 
when the lettuce is in perfection. When they are not to be had, a 
little tarragon vinegar may be mixed with the French vinegar, and a 
shalot, or young onion, may be taken ; if a very mild onion flavour be 
preferred, chives can be used. Very superior salads may be made of 
almost all kinds of cold vegetables, such as cold boiled potatoes, 
cauliflower, Brussels sprouts, green peas, boiled aspai-agus, celery, 
French beans, Windsor beans, sea-kale, haricot beans, lentils, and 
beetroot. All that is necessary is to mix three or four kinds to- 
gether, slice them, and then toss them up lightly at the last moment 
with the cruet-sauce described above. The addition of cold meat, 
cut into thin slices, cold fish torn into flakes, anchovies, sardines, or 
bloaters filleted, or cold chicken or cold game cut into neat pieces, 
will be a great improvement to a salad. — Baked Potatoes (May 4th) ; 
Cocoa-nut Pudding (August 8th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Turn the flank of beef in the brine. 

2. Pastry is to be made to day (April 17th) : an open jam tart 
(August 7th), lemon cheese-cakes (August 18th), and rhubarb pie 
(August 7th) ] also tea-cakes (August 26th) and sultana cake (August 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



113 



2ud). Half a bundle of rhubarb will be enough for the pie ; tlie 
remainder may be kept till to-morrow, to make the rhubarb mould 
for Sunday. 

3. Wash a breakfast-cupful of German lentils, and put them in 
cold water to soak all ni^ht. 

4. Boil about half a Canadian ham (Note 4, May 27th), 



March 14th, 



Breakfast. 


Luncheon. 




Dinner. 


Dried Hadrlock, 


Bubble and Squeak. 




Fried WMting. 


Melton Mowbray Pork Pie. 


Remains of Baked 


Plum 


Sea Pie. 


Tea-cakes. 


Pudding cut into 


slices 


Potatoes. 


Di-y Toast. 


and toasted. 




Boiled LentUs. 


Ronev. 






Fig Pudding. 


Brown and White Bread and 






Cheese. 


Butter. 








Com Flour Milk. , 







Marketing. 

For the Day.— Fresh Whiting {see January 17th) ; two and a-half pounds of 
Buttock Steak (see Marketing, January 1st) ; quarter of a pound of Suet ; 
half a pound of Figs ; two or three baking Apples ; one-pennyworth of 
Parsley ; Potatoes ; Cabbage. 

For To-morrow.— A tin of Mock Turtle Soup ; a Fillet of Veal weighing about 
eight pounds (see February 25th). The fillet of veal is the thicJc part of the 
leg. The butcher will be prepared to take out the bone, and should send a 
piece of loose skin with the meat. Half a pound of Bacon, if this is not in 
the house (see January 3rd); two-pennyworth of Watercress; Dried Sprats 
for breakfast on Monday ; a bundle may be allowed for each person. 



Breakfast.— Dried Haddock (January 27th), bought March 13th ; 
Tea-cakes (February 14th) ; Corn Flour Milk (June 19th). 

Luncheon. — Bubble and Squeak {see January 22nd); Plum 
Pudding, served a second time {see Suet Dmnpling, March 6th). 

Dinner.— Fried Whiting {see January 17th). Sea P^>.— Cut the 
buttock steak into neat pieces, convenient for serving. If the meat 
is cut with the grain it will be more likely to be tender. Skin, wash, 
and cut into small pieces, a moderate-sized carrot, a moderate-sized 
turnip, and a small onion ; a couple of potatoes can be added if 
liked. If not wanted immediately, turn the vegetables into cold 
water. Put a layer of meat into a saucepan, sprinkle pepper and 
salt oyer, then put in the cut-up vegetables and the rest of the meat ; 
pour in as much cold water as will barely cover the meat ; put it 
on the fire to boil v/hile the crust is being made. If it should reach 
the boiling-point before the crust is ready, draw it back and let it 
simmer. To make the crust, skin the suet, free it from fibres, and 
chop it very finely. In many kitchens there is a mincing machine, 
which saves both time and labour in chopping suet. When this is 
not the case, and the suet has to be choi)ped with a knife, it is best 



114 



A YEARS COOKERY. 



to shred it first very finely, then turn tlie pieces round and cliop 
the suet a little at a time, using the knife as a lever — that is, keeping 
it down at the point, and raising the upper part only. When it gets 
sticky, a little flour should be sprinkled over it. In freeing the knife 
from suet, the fingers should not be drawn doivn the length of the 
blade, as that would cause the suet to come off in a lump that would 
have to be chopped over again. Rather it should be taken off with the 
fingers at once, and in small quantities. When the suet is chopped 
as fine as sifted bread-crumbs, rub it into three-quarters of a pound 
of flour, add a pinch of salt and a teaspoonful of baking powder, 
and make it into a stiff paste with cold water. Roll it out, and 
make it round to fit the saucepan ; lay it upon the beef ; put on the 
lid, and simmer the pie gently for an hour and a half. Pass^ the 
knife round it occasionally to keep it from burning. When it is 
done enough, put the meat and vegetables on a dish, cut the suet- 
crust in quarters and lay these on the top, pour the gravy over all, 
and serve. A Sea Pie is both wholesome and palatable, but its 
appearance is not very elegant. Potatoes (April 7th) ; Boiled Lentils 
(March 2nd) ; Fig Pudding (June 3rd) ; Cheese (June Sth). 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Turn and rub the beef in the brine. 

2. Prepare the rhubarb mould for dinner, and the stone cream 
for supper to-morrow evening (June 3rd and July 1st). 

3. Make the mayonnaise sauce for the Italian salad to-morrow. 
When made, it can be put into a clean, dry bottle, and corked closely ', 
it will keep for some time (August 30tli). ^ 

4. Also, to save time on Sunday evening, fillet the anchovies for 
the salad. They will not spoil if they are kept between two plates 
in a cool place. 



Sunday, March 15th. 



Breakfast. 


Dinner. 


Tea. 


Supper. 


Boiled Ham. 


Mock Turtle Soup 


Brown and "White 


Italian Salad. 


Poached Eggs on 


(from tinned 


Bread and Buttoi*. 


Stone Cream. 


Toast. 


soup). 


Damson Jam. 


Lemon Cheese- 


Dry Ton St. 


Fillet of Veal stuffed 


Tei-cakes. 


cakes. 


Tea-cakes. 


and roasted. 


Sultana Cake. 


Cheese and "Wateiw 


Brown and White 


Toasted Bacon. 




cress. 


Bread and Butter. 


Seakale. 






Porridge. 


Potatoes. 
Ehubai'h Mould. 
Cheese. 







Breakfast.— Boiled Ham (March 13tli); Poached Eggs on Toast 

(February 6th) ; Tea-cakes (February 14th) ; Porridge (January 25th). 

Dinner. — Mock ' Turtle Soup, from tinned Soiqy. — Take about 



A yJiJAH'S COOKERY. 



115 



three-quarters of a pint of stock made from bones; put it into a 
Btewpan with a piece of carrot, a pinch of aromatic seasoning (if 
at hand), a bunch of parsley, a small onion stuck with one clove, 
a bay leaf, one or two outer sticks of celery, or, wanting this, a 
pinch of celery-seed in muslin, a strip of bacon-rind scalded and 
scraped, and a little salt and cayenne ; simmer all together for about 
an hour, then strain the stock. Half an hour before the soup is to 
be served turn it out of the tin ; put it with the newly-flavoured 
stock into a fresh stewpan, and make it hot. Put the soup into a 
tureen ; taste it, and, if necessary, add a little more seasoning ; throw 
in a wine-glassful of sherry, and serve. The addition _ of _ the fresh 
liquor will correct the tinny taste, wliich is so very objectionable in 
preserved soups. If there should not be any stock in the house, 
water in which a spoonful of Liebig's extract of meat has been 
dissolved may be used instead. This recipe may be followed with 
all tinned soups. Fillet of Veal stuffed and baked (June 28th); 
Toasted Bacon (January 19th); Seakale (June 14th); Potatoes (May 
12th); Pvhubarb Mould (June 3rd); with custard if liked (August 
10th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 

Supper.— Italian Salad (April 26th) ; Stone Cream, made yester- 
day ; Lemon Cheese-cakes, made on March 13th. 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Turn the beef in the brine. 

2. When the veal is done with, put it upon a clean dish, and 
carefully preserve any stuffing, gravy, or bacon that may be left. 

3. Put a breakfast-cupful of German lentils to soak all night in 
cold water. 



March 16th. 



Breakfast. 


Luncheon. 


Dinner. 


Dried Sprats. 


Preser\-ed Tomatoes, vidth 


Lentil Soup. 


Boiled Ham. 


Gravy and Potatoes. 


Minced Veal. 


Tea-cakes. 


Plain rolled Puddin?, with 


Toasted Bacon. 


Dry Toast. . 


Jam, Treacle, or Marma- 


Potatoes. 


Marmalade. 


lade. 


Turnip Tops. 


Brown and Wliite Bread 




Open Jam Tart. 


and Butter. 




Cheese. 


Bread and Milk. 







Marketing. 

For the Day.— One two-pound tin of preserved Tomatoes; Potatoes, Turnip 

Tops. 
For To-morrow.— One tin of potted Grouse (January 7th) ; ha,lf a pound of 

Macaroni ; half a pound of Nornrandy Pippins, if they are not in the house ; 

and three pounds of muscle of Beef. (See Marketing, January 27th.) fUx or 

eight .small Soles, "Slips" (January 3rd.). 



116 



A YEARS COOKERY, 



Breakfast. — Dried Sprats (February 28tli) ; Boiled Ham (]May 
27tli) ; Tea-cakes (February 14tli) \ Bread and Milk {see January 
25tli). 

Luncheon. — Preserved Tomatoes. — Turn half the contents of a 
tin of preserved tomatoes into a frying-pan with plenty of salt and a 
slice of butter. Fry the tomatoes till they are done enough, and 
covered with rich gravy. Have ready three or four slices of toast, one 
for each person. Let these soak in the gravy, turn upon a dish, and 
serve very hot. Send baked potatoes to table in a tureen. Plain 
Rolled Pudding. — Put a pound of flour into a bowl. Add a pinch 
of salt and a teaspoonful of baking powder, and rub in haK a pound 
of sweet dripping. Stir in as much cold water as will make a stiff 
paste, roll it out, and then turn it over and over to make it in 
shape of a bolster. Cover it with a floured cloth, tie the ends 
securely, and plunge the pudding into fast-boiling water. Keep 
it boiling till enough ; it will take about an hour and a half. Let it 
cool a minute, turn it upon a hot dish, and send treacle, jam, or 
marmalade to table with it. 

Dinner. — Lentil Soup (April 1st); Minced Veal (May 11th); 
Toasted Bacon (January 19th) ; Potatoes (May 12tli) ; Turnip-tops 
(June 4th) ; Open Jam Tart, made on March 13th ; Cheese (June 8th). 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Turn the beef in the brine. 

2. Put the Normandy pippins to soak in cold water. 



March 17th. 



Breakfast. 




Luncheon. 


Dinner. 


Bated Slips. 




Macaroni and Ham. 


Salmon Shad. 


Potted Grouse. 




Normandy Pippins. 


Stewed Beef with Vege- 


Hot Buttered Toast. 






tables. 


Dry Toast. 






Potatoes. 


Marmalade. 






Wyvem Puddings. 


Brown aud WMte 


Bread 




Cheese. 


and Butter. 




■ 


Watercress. 


Biscuits and Milk. 









Marketing. 

For the Day.— A Shad weighing about four pounds. This fish is often to be had 
very cheap at this time of the year ; and very likely it is on this account that 
it is not so highly esteemed as it deserves to be. Its freshness is determined 
by the rules that hold good with other fish. Potatoes, Watercress, Vegetables 
for beef. 

For To-morrow.— Three-pennyworth of Cream for the potatqe pur6e ; Oranges 
for orange cream and comp6te ; Sardines for breakfast. Remember to buy a 
tin a size larger than will be needed for breakfast, as sardines will be needed 
for the llanibro salad on Wednesday. 



A YEAK& COOKERY. 



117 



' Breakfast. — Baked Slips (January 7th) ; Potted Grouse {see 
Marketing, January 7th) ; Biscuits and Milk (June 14th). 

LuxcHEON. — Macaroni and Ham (April 3rd) ; Normandy Pippins 
(August 16th). 

Dinner. — Salmon Shad. — Boil the shad just like salmon, and 
send anchovy (July 5th) sauce to table ydth. it; or, if it be pre- 
lerred, Qgg and bread-crumb it and fry it (j\Iarch 24th). Be care- 
ful that the roe is fried also. Stewed Beef with Verjetahles. — 
Leave the muscle of the leg of beef ordered yesterday in one 
piece. Season it with pepper and salt, put it in a stewpan, then 
proceed in all things according to the directions given in Mutton 
Stewed with Vegetables (January 14th). It must have fully three 
hours' gentle stewing, and should be tender without being ragged. 
Potatoes (April 7th); W^-vern Puddings (May 9th); Cheese (June 8th). 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Turn the beef in the brine. 

2. Wash two tablespoonfuls of tapioca, and put them to soak 
in cold water all night. 

3. Put half a pint of green or German lentils to soak all night. 
They should lie in soak for twenty-four hours. 

4. Make the orange cream for dinner to-morrow (December 6th). 
If more convenient, the garnish for the cream can be left until two 
or three hours before it is wanted. 

5. If possible, leave a little boiled ham for the Hambro salad 
to-morrow. 



March 18th 



Breakfast. 


Luncheon. 


Dinner. 


Sarcliues. 


Hambro Salad. 


Potatoe Pm-ee. 


Potted Grouse. 


Aijples, with Tapioca. 


Lentils and Sausages. 


Hot Toiist. 




Potatoes. 


Dry Toast. 




Orause Cream. 


Marmalade. 




Compote of Oranges. 


Ba-owu and "WMte Bread 




Cheese. 


and Butter. 






Porridge. 







Marketing. 

For the Da,y.— Three pounds of best Pork Sausages, or two and a-half pounds 
of fresh Pork, fat and lean together, from tlie chunip end of the fore loin 
(see recipe below). To choose pork see Jariuary Gth. Potatoes, Apples, 
Parsley. 

For To-morrow.— Bloaters ; one will probably be enough for each person. 
Apples, Potatoes, \Vatercre8s. 



118 A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



Breakfast. — Sardines {see Marketing, Jannary 12th) ; Potted 
Grouse {see ^Marketing, Jannary 7tli) ; Porridge (Jannary 25th). 

Luncheon. — Hambro Salad (August 8th) ; Apples, with Tapioca 
(February 18th). 

Dinner. — Potatoe Puree (Jannary 26th). Sausages as generally 
sold are composed of such very questionable ingredients that where 
it is at all practicable it is much the best to prepare them at home. 
If there is a sausage-machine in the house that will both mince the 
meat and fill the skins, this can easily be done ; but if not, the 
business is a troublesome one. The skins (especially if they are 
ordered beforehand) can be obtained of the pork-butcher, and they 
should be carefully v/ashed inside and out before being used. If more 
convenient, they can be dispensed with altogether, and the sausage- 
meat can be made into small balls, and floured lightly before being 
fried. The following is an excellent recipe for the preparation of 
home-made sausages :— Cut the meat from the bones, and stew the 
latter with as much water as will barely cover them till a strong gravy 
is obtained. Weigh the pork, and for each pound of lean take half a 
pound of fat. If the proportion of fat is too small, it can be increased ; 
but tastes vary very much on this point. Cut the meat into small 
pieces, and pass it through the machine. With each pound of meat 
put two tablespoonfuls of bread that has been rubbed through a 
wire sieve, and add a teaspoonful of salt, half a teaspoonful of pepper, 
and half a teaspoonful of dried sage, or, if liked, a mixture of sage 
an€l marjoram can be used. Mix the herbs and seasoning first with 
the bread-crumbs, and then add the whole to^ the meat, being care- 
ful to blend the ingredients thoroughly. Moisten the mince with a 
tablespoonful of gravy for each pound of meat, and it is ready 
either to be put into skins or made into balls. Sausages are always 
best when quite fresh. If they are bought ready made, they should 
be procured of a highly respectable dealer, for if purchased indiscri- 
minately they may be made of no one knows what. For Lentils and 
Sausages see April 4th ; Potatoes (May 12th) ; Orange Cream made 
yesterday ; Compote of Oranges (December 6th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 



Things that must not be Forgottcii. 

1. Turn the meat in the brine. 

2. Preserve any sausages that may be left. They can be used for 
luncheon to-morrow. 

3. Keep the bloaters apart from everything else. 

4. Wash one pound of prunes, and put them to soak in plenty of 
cold water. 



A YEARS COOKERY. 



119 



March 19th. 



Breakfast. 


Luncheon. 


Dinner. 


Bloaters. 


Toad in-tbe-hole. 


Kidney Soup. 


Buttered Eggs. 


Stewed Prunes. 


Boded Leg of Mutton; 


Buttered Toast. 




Caper Sauce. 


Dry Toast. 




Carrots, Mashed Parsnips. 


Watercress. 




Potatoes. 


Brown and White Bread 




Hayrick Puddings. 


and Butter. 




Cheese. 


Milk Toast. 







Marketing. 

For the Day.— Half an Ox Kidney ; a well-hung Leg of Mutton for dinner, and 
another one, small, plump, and freshly killed, to prepare for dinner on 
Sunday week. Potatoes, Carrots, Parsnips. It is probable that Turnips will 
be too old for mashing, or they might be used. 

For To-mo^f.'ro'W.— One tin of preserved Salmon; half a pint of Mushrooms. 
Forced mushrooms are usually to be had at a cheap rate at this time of year. 
One tin of Bovill's potted Partridge ; two-pennyworth of Radishes. 



Breakfast. — Bloaters (Janiiarj'- 3rd) ; Buttered Eggs (January 
16tli) ; Milk Toast (June 17tli). 

Luncheon.— Toad-in-tlie-liole, made of the remains of sausages 
(January 15tli) ; Stewed Prunes (February 27tli). 

Dinner. — Kidney Soup (February 27tli) ; Boiled Leg of Mutton 
{see February 23rd). Caper Sauce. — Take a good tablespoonful of 
capers, and bruise tliem well with a wooden spoon. Make half a 
pint of good melted butter (July 17th), and stir the mashed • capers 
into this. Taste the sauce ; if not sulSciently acid, add a little 
vinegar, and serve. Carrots (July 6th) ; Mashed Parsnips (Sep- 
tember 30th) ; Potatoes (May 12th). Hayrick Puddings. — Put two 
ounces of fresh butter into a small jar, and place this in a large bowl 
of hot water till tlie butter is nearly melted. The water must not 
go into the jar. Beat the melted butter to cream, and throw in 
gradually, whilst beating, two well-whisked eggs. Add, a little at a 
time, two ounces of fine flour, the grated rind of a fresh lemon, and 
two tablespoonfuls of sugar. Just before baking, stir in a small 
pinch of baking powder. Warm some dariole moulds, grease them 
inside with butter, three-parts fill them with the mixture, and bake 
in a well-heated oven till they are well risen and brown. They will 
take about twenty minutes. Lemon Syruj). — Squeeze the juice of 
a lemon into a small cupful of water, and boil it with five moderate- 
sized lumps of sugar till it is a clear thin syrup, then colour it with 
six drops of cochineal. Turn the puddings upon a hot dish, pour 
the sauce round them, and serve. The appearance of the dish 
will be improved if white sugar is sifted over, and if a little ring of 
angelica is placed upon each ]judding (July 12th). Cheese (June 8th) 



120 



A YEAKS COOKERY. 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Turn and rub tlie beef in the brine. 

2. Before putting away the bottle of capers, be careful to fill it up 
with fresh vinegar. This will help to presei-ve the flavour and pre- 
vent mould. 

3. Make a pickle with half a pint of -sdnegar, a quarter of a pint 
of water, one onion stuck -with six cloves, two bay-leaves, and a little 
salt and whole pepper. Put the fresh leg of mutton into this, and 
turn and rub it every day till wanted. 

4. Make a little mayonnaise for the salmon salad to-morrow 
(August 30th). 



March 20th. 



Breakfast. 


Luncheon. 


Dinner. 


Mushrooms. 


Salmon mth Salad (made of 


Skate with Brown Butter 


Potted Partridge. 


turned salmon). 


Sauce. 


Hot Buttered Toa^t. 


Macaroni Cheese. 


Cui-ried Mutton (made of 


Dry Toast. 




cold leg of mutton). 


Radishes. 




Boiled Eice. 


Brown and White Bread 




Turnip Tops. 


and Butter. 




Potatoes. 


Corn Flour Milk. 




Eed Currant Dumpliug 

(made of bottled fruit). 
Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— Two heads of Lettuce; apennyworthof Watercress; small Salad; 
two pounds of crimped skate (see January 10th); Turnip Tops, Potatoes, 
bottled Currants, Rhubarb ; German Yeast. 

Breakfast. — Stewed Mushrooms on Toast. — Pull out the stems of 
the mushrooms, and peel them. ]\Ielt a good slice of butter in a stew- 
pan, then add a teaspoonf ul of salt, half a teaspoonfnl of white pepper, 
and a very small pinch of powdered mace. Put in the mushrooms, 
the upper side downwards, and let them stew gently till they are 
tender ; they will take fifteen or twenty minutes. Take a slice of bread 
the size of the dish on which they are to be served. Toast it, or, better 
still, f ly it in butter ; turn the mushrooms upon it, and serve very hot. 
If liked, white sauce can be poured over the mushrooms. Piaclishes 
(March 12th). The green tops of the radishes can be used instead of 
watercress in the dish. Potted Partridge {see Potted Grouse, January 
7th); Corn Flour Milk (June 19th). 

Luncheon. — Salmon Salad. — Mix salmon with the salad (March 
13th), and use half the contents of the tin instead of fresh fish (Note 
4, March 19th). Macaroni Cheese. — Wash half a pound of Naples 
macaroni, drain it, throw it into boiling water with a lump of butter 
in it, and boil it for twenty minutes. Throw the water away ; pour 
upon it a pint of milk, and let it simmer gently till it is tender 
without being pulpy. (The time macaroni takes to boil depends 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



121 



upon the quality ; the commoner the kind, the sooner it will be done 
enough.) Grate two ounces of dry cheese. Parmesan cheese is the 
best for the purpose, but this is a convenient method of using the 
dry portions of other cheeses. Turn half the macaroni, milk and 
all, on a greased dish ; sprinkle pepper and salt and a grain or two 
of cayenne upon it, together with a little of the grated cheese, and 
repeat until the ingredients are used. Sprinkle grated cheese and 
a spoonful of bread-raspings on the top of all, and pour over half 
an ounce of melted butter. Brown the preparation in front of the 
fire, and serve very hot. 

Dinner. — Skate with Brown Butter Sauce (February 12th) ; 
Curried Mutton (May 26th); Bice for Curry (July 21st); Turnip Tops 
(June 4th) ; Potatoes (May 12th) ; Red Currant Dumpling, made of 
bottled fruit (July 19th) ; Cheese (June 8tli). 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Turn and rub the mutton in the pickle. 

2. Take up the beef, remove the bones, and roll the meat very 
tightly ; bind it with tape, and boil it till tender {see February 23rd). 
Leave it in the liquor off the fire for an hour, and put it between 
two dishes with a weight upon the top ; let it stand all night. 
Preserve the liquor to make glaze. 

3. Pastry is to be made to-day (April 17th) : a baked custard 
(January 19th), and a rhubarb pie (August 7th) ; a sultana cake 
(August 2nd) and a few Sally Lunns (August 26th) will also be wanted. 

4. ]\Iake fish cakes of what is left of the preserved salmon for 
breakfast to-morrow {see January 13th). 

5. Soak some hominy for breakfast to-morrow {see February 10th). 



March 21st. 



Breakfast. 

Fish Cakes. 

Potted Pai-tricTge. 

Sally Ltuius. 

Dry Toast. 

Brown and WMte Bread 

and Butter. 
Marmalade. 
Hominy. 



Luncheon. 

Beef Stew Economical. 
Jam and Bread. 



Dmner. 

Parsnip Soup (made of tlie 
liquor the mutton was 
boiled ia). 

Civet of Kabbit. 

Potatoes. 

Savoy, 

Lemon Pudding. 

Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— Two pounds o£ lean Steak (see January 1st) ; two plump Ostend 
Rabbits (see January 21th) ; one pennyworth of Parsley ; one tin of Oysters • 
a set of Pigs' Feet (see February 7th) ; Potatoes ; six ounces of Beef Suet. ' 

For To-morrow.— A tin of Pilchards (see Janiiary 23rd) ; a couple of Guinea 
Fowls (see February 14th) ; half a pound of streaky Bacon, if this is not in the 
house ; fresh Salad for supper ; two heads of Lettuce ; one-pennyworth of 
Beetroot ; two-pennyworth of AVatercress (half for breakfast) ; and one- 
pennyworth of small Salad ; Potatoes ; Scakale. 



122 A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



Bkeakfast. — Fish Cakes made yesterday ; Potted Partridge 
(January 7tli) j Sally Lunns (June 4tla) ; Hominy, boiled (February 
nth). 

Luncheon. — Beef Steiv Economical. — Cut the steak evenly, ^yith 
a sharp knife, into slices an inch thick. Brown them on both sides 
with a little dripping, dredge flour upon them, and put in the 
pan a large carrot, a turnip, an onion, and a bay-leaf. Pour in 
the liquor from the tinned oysters with as much stock or water as 
will cover the bottom of the pan, but not the meat. Cover the 
stewpan closely, and simmer the meat very gently for about an 
hour and a half, or till it is tender ; add pepper and salt to taste. 
Put the oysters into a basin and make them hot in the oven. Lay 
the meat on a dish, place the oysters upon it, and after freeing 
the gravy from fat, strain it over all. Serve very hot. If liked, 
mushrooms can be used instead of oysters. Jam and bread, or 
cheese and bread. 

Dinner, — Parsnip Soup (December 3rd) ; Civet of Pvabbit (De- 
cember 8th); Potatoes (May 12th); Savoy (June 4th); Lemon 
Pudding (August 12th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Turn and rub the mutton in the pickle. 

2. Make glaze of the liquor the beef was boiled in, and glaze 
the beef. To do this, first clear the liquor thoroughly from fat, and 
boil it quickly without having a lid on the saucepan, being careful 
to remove the scum as it rises. When it is reduced to about a 
quart turn it into a small stewpan and boil it again — but more gently 
— till it is a thick syrup. Try a little in a spoon, and if, when cold, 
it sets like a jelly, it is ready. When it reaches this stage it is 
in great danger of burning, and if it burns it is spoiled. Put it into a 
jar. Paint the meat with it, using for the purpose an ordinary gum- 
brush that has been soaked for a while in cold water. The glaze 
should be laid lightly on the surface of the meat, and when one 
coat is cold and stifl: a second may be given. Any glaze that isleft 
should be put into a small dry jar ; it will keep for a long time. 
When wanted, it should be melted as glue is; that is, the jar which 
contains it should be put into a saucepan surrounded liaK-way up 
with boiling water, and kept boiling till it is dissolved. An easy way 
of making glaze is to soak a spoonful of gelatine in cold water, and 
dissolve it in twice its bulk of strong, brown gravy. Or glaze may 
be bought ready-made in skins. This glaze, however, does not taste 
so well as home-made glaze. 

3. Pluck the Guinea Fowl for to-morrow, and preserve and cure 
the feathers {see February 2Sth). 

4. Preserve any cold hominy that may be left ; it can be fried for 
breakfast to-morrow. 

5. Prepare the Pigs' Feet for Breakfast (Note 3, February 7th). 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



123 



Sunday, March 22nd 



Breakfast. 


Dinner. 


Tea. 


Supper. 


Pilchards. 


Vermicelli Soup. 


Brown and White 


EoUed Beef. 


Pigs' Feet. 


Guinea-fowl roasted 


Bread and Butter. 


Salad. 


Sally Limns. 


Toasted Bacon. 


Plum Jam, 


Baked Custard. 


Dry Toast. 


Bread Sauce. 


Sultana Cake. 


Cheese. 


"Watercress. 


Potatoes, Seal-ale. 






Brown and White 


Queen's Pudding. 






Bread and Butter. 


Cheese. 






Fried Hominy. 









Breakfast. — Pilchards {see Sardines, January 12th) ; Pigs' Feet 
(February 7th) ; Sally Lunns (June 4th) ; Fried Hominy (Februaiy 
12th). 

Dinner. — Vermicelli Soup. — Take three ounces of vermicelli, 
break it lightly with the hands in order that it may be conveniently 
carried from the plate to the mouth. Put it into a saucepan of cold 
water, and set it over the fire for a few minutes to cleanse it 
thoroughly by dissolving the outside dust. Let it cool, then drain it 
and pour away the water. Have ready three pints of nicely-flavoured 
stock. Let it boil, then drop the vermicelli into it, and let it boil 
again for ten minutes, or till the vermicelli is tender ; stir it gently 
once or twice to keep the vermicelli from getting into lumps. Pro- 
perly Clear Soup should be used (July 30th), or Clear Soup quickly 
made (February 15th) ; but for ordinary consumption, stock made 
from bone, nicely flavoured, strained, and freed from fat, will answer 
the purpose very well. Pioasted Guinea Fowl (April 5th) ; Bacon 
(January 19th) ; Bread Sauce (October 18th) ; Potatoes O^ay 12th) ; 
Seakale (June 14th) ; Queen's Pudding (August 9tli) ; Cheese 
(June 8th). 

Tea. — Sultana Cake (August 2nd). 

Supper.— Rolled Beef. Put the glazed meat on a dish, and 
garnish it with parsley ; Salad (March 13th) ; Baked Custard Tart 
January 19th). 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Turn the mutton in the pickle. 

2. If the carver can quite conveniently leave the legs of the 
Guinea Fowl untouched, they may be devilled for breakfast {see 
January 14th) ; if not. Eggs on the Dish (December 7th) may be 
served instead. 

3. Take care of the bones and trimmings of the birds. Soup can 
be made of them for dinner to-morrow. 



124 



A YEARS COOKERY. 



March 23rd. 



Breakfast. 


Luncheon. 


Dinner. 


Devilled Drum - sticks or 


Rolled Beef, with baked 


Guinea Fowl Soup. 


Eggs ou the Dish. 


Potatoes and cold Butter. 


Steak h la B^amaise. 


Pigs' Feet. 


Plain Eice Pudding, 


Fried Potatoes. 


Buttered Toast. 




Ehubarb Pie. 


Dry Toast. 




Cheese. 


Bro-.\Ti and WMte Bread 






and Butter. 






Maj-malade. 






Porridge. 







Marketing. 

For the Day.— ^ slice of Rump Steak, not less than one inch thick, and 
weigliing from three to three and a-half pounds (see Janiiary 22nd) ; Potatoes. 

For To-morrov/.— Bloaters for breakfast. One for two persons svill probably 
be enough. One tin Collared Tongue {see January 2nd). 



Breakfast. — Devilled Drum-sticks (January 14tli) ; Eggs on the 
Dish (December 7th) ; Pigs' Feet (February 7th) ; Porridge (January 
25th). 

Luncheon.— Beef, Boiled (March 20th); Baked Potatoes (May 
4th) ; Plain Eice Pudding (February 24th). 

• _ Dinner.— Guinea Fowl Soup (February 16th) ; Steak h, la B^ar- 
naise. For broUing the steak (January 22nd). Bearnaise Sauce. — 
Allow one eg^ for two persons, and one ounce of butter for each 
e^^g. The yolks only of the eggs Avill be required ; the whites 
should be preserved, and can bo used for the lemon sponge to- 
morrow. Beat the jolks lightly, put them into a small stewpan, 
and stir them without ceasing till they begin to thicken. Take 
the pan oti' the fire, and put in one-third of the quantity of butter 
that is to \)Q used. Stir the sauce again over the fire for two 
minutes, when another third portion of the butter may be intro- 
duced off the fire. After simmering once more for two minutes, 
repeat the process for the third time. Take the sauce off the fire, 
add salt and pepper to taste, and when it has cooled for a minute 
or tv/o, stir in a little tarragon vinegar till it is sufiiciently acid 
to suit the palate. Have ready (for three eggs) a tablespoonful of 
finely-chopped tarragon, or, when this is not to be had, a table- 
spoonful of fresh green parsley, and mix this with the sauce. 
Just before serving the broiled steak spread the Bearnaise Sauce 
over the surface and serve very hot. Fried Potatoes (February 
2nd) ; Bhubarb Pie (August 7th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Turn the mutton in the pickle. 

2. Boil the brine with an additional handful of salt, wash the 
pan, and pour it back again. 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



125 



March 24th. 



Breakfast. 


. Luncheon. 


Dinner. 


Bloaters on Toast. 


Devilled Ej^gs. 


Filed Soles. 


Collared Tongue, 


Baked Plum Puddiu!?. 


Slioulder of Mutton. 


Hot Buttered Toast. 




Bi owned Potatoes. 


Dry Toast. 




Lemon Sponge. 


Mai-malade. 




Cheese. 


Brown and WMte Bread and 




Pulled Bread. 


Butter. 






Bread and Milk. 







Marketing. 

For the Day.— Two heads of Lettuce; a pair of Soles (January 3rd); a well- 
hung Shoulder of Mutton, not too fat ; a piece of Silvcrside of Beef, weighing 
about eight pounds ; Potatoes ; a quarter of a pound of good Beef Suet. 

For To-morrow.— A tin of Sardines ; two-pennyworth of Mustard and Cress. 



Beeakfast. — Bloaters on Toast. — Put the bloaters into boiling 
water, and let them simmer gently two or three minutes, till the skin 
can be taken off easily. Skin them, and lift the flesh from the bones in 
fillets. Brush these over with butter, and season them with pepper ; 
then lay them between slices of buttered toast ; cut them into neat 
squares ; put them in the oven for a fev^^ minutes, and serve very 
hot. Collared Tongue {see Note 2, January 3rd); Bread and Milk 
(January 25th). 

Luncheon.— Devilled Eggs (February 27th); Baked Plum Pudding 
(February 25th). 

Dinner. — Fried Soles. — Prepare the fish for frying three or four 
hours before it is wanted. Of late years, authorities have recom- 
mended that the fish should not be skinned, as so much nourishment 
and flavour lies in the skin. It is most usual, however, to remove 
the skin. When cleaning soles hold them up to the light ; if a dark 
streak can be seen at the side of the roes, the latter should be 
removed before frjdng; if not, they may be left. Wipe the fish 
with a soft cloth, and rub it all over with flour; then roll in a 
clean cloth, and leave it for an hour or two. If it is thoroughly dry 
it need not be covered with anything more than flour before it is 
fried ; but if preferred, it may either be egged and breaded, or dipped 
in a thin smooth batter of flour and water before frying. Large soles 
may either be filleted or cut through the bone into neat pieces. If 
fried whole, the fr^dng- basket would, of course, not be required for 
large flat fish— the frying-pan would rather be needed; but with 
this exception, when frying soles, th^ directions can be followed 
which are given for fried whiting (sei January I7th). It should 
be remembered, however, that the black or skinned side sho-iild 
first be placed downwards in the pan, and that in lifting it out of the 
pan the fork should be stuck into the fisli close to the head. When 
it is preferred that the sole should be egged and breaded instead 



126 



A YEARS COOKERY, 



of being floured, it is a convenience to use Ijrown bread-raspings 
instead of plain bread-crumbs, as, if this is done, the fish is sure 
to have a good appearance. Shoulder of Mutton {see March 4th and 
December 16th) ; Browned Potatoes (October 18th) ; Lemon Sponge 
(August 10th), to be made of the white's of eggs left from the 
B4ar]iaise Sauce ; Cheese (June 8th) ; Pulled Bread (August 27th). 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Turn the mutton in the pickle. 

2. Put the silverside of beef into the brine. 



March 25th. 



Breakfast. 

Sardines with Capers. 
Collared Tongue. 
Buttered Toast. 
Dry Toast. 
Mustard and Cress. 
Brown and White Bread and 

Butter. 
Porridge. 



Luncheon. 

Cold Shoulder of Mutton. 

Mint Sauce. 

Salad. 

Baked Apples. 



Dinner. 

Cr^cy Soup. 

Lancashii-e Hot Pot. 

Greens. 

Baked Batter with Jam. 

Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— Two heads of Lettuce, a pennyworth of Watercress, a half- 
pennyworth of small Salad, and a halfpennyworth of Beetroot; a small 
Neck of Mutton ; three Sheep's Kidneys ; a pennyworth of Parsley ; Mint, 
Apples, Potatoes, Greens ; a tin of Oysters ; Onions. 

For To-morrow.— A bottle of Anchovies, if they ai'C not in the house ; half 
a pound of Streaky Bacon, if not at hand. 

Breakfast. — Sardines with Capers (January 12th) ; Collared 
Tongue (Note 2, January 3rd) ; Porridge (January 25th). 

Luncheon. — Mutton, Roasted (March 24th). Mint Sauce.— ha 
sure that the mint is fresh and young. Pick the leaves from the 
stalks, wash them well, and dry them in a cloth. Chop them as fine 
as possible; then measure the mint; and for every even table- 
spoonful, allow half the quantity of pounded sugar. Mix the sugar 
and mint thoroughly, and let it lie for a couple of hours; then 
pour over it two table-spoonfuls of good vinegar for each table- 
spoonful of mint. The flavour of the mint will be more thoroughly 
extracted if it is allowed to lie with the sugar for a while without the 
vinegar. If it is considered that there is too large a proportion of 
sugar, less may be used ; but the sauce as thus made is very gene- 
rally approved. Salad (March 13th) ; Baked Apples (February 9th). 

DiNNEE. — Cr^cy Soup (January 5th). Lancashire Hot Pot. — 
Take the best end of the neck of mutton, the sheep's kidneys, a 
moderate-sized onion, and the tinned oysters; free the mutton 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



127 



almost entii'cly from fat, and cut it into neat chops. Take a mde 
brown earthenware stewpot, and fill it with alternate layers of the 
chops, the kidneys, cut into thin slices, some sliced potatoes, and the 
onion very finely minced. Before putting in the meat, season each piece 
with pepper and salt. Place whole potatoes over the topmost layer ; 
put in the liquor from the oysters, and add haK a pinfc of stock or 
water. Cover the stewpan closely, and bake it in a gentle oven for 
about three hours. If there is any danger that the dish will be too 
dry, add a little more stock. When the meat is tender lift it on a 
inot dish, and add the oysters, which have been made hot by being 
put upon a dish in the oven for a few minutes; pour the gravy 
over all, and serve very hot. The sliced potatoes should be dissolved 
in the gravy. Greens (June 4th) ; Baked Batter Pudding with Jam 
(February 5th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Turn and rub the mutton in the pickle. 

2. Turn and rub the beef in the brine. 

3. Take care of the fat from the neck of nlutton. It can either 
be melted down for frying purposes, or it may be used for making 
suet crust for puddings. 

4. Fillet half-a-dozen anchovies, and lay them between two plates 
ready for to-morrow morning. 

5. Mince very finely a little of the first cut of the collared tongue, 
and put it between dishes to keep moist. 



March 25th 



Breakfast. 

Mock Woodcock. 
Toasted Bacou. 
Dry Toast. 
Marmalade. 
Brown and White 

and Butter. 
Milk Toast. 



Bread 



Luncheon. 

Scrag end of Neck of Mut- 
ton with Eice. 
Stewed Ehubarb. 



Dinner. 

Milk Soup. 

Beef Steak and Mushroom 

Pie. 
Savoy, 
Potatoes. 

Chocolate Pudding. 
Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— A bundle of Rhubarb ; two povmds of Rump or Buttock Steak 
(see January 1st) ; half an Ox Kidney ; a quarter of a pint of Mushrooms ; a 
quarter of a pound of powdered Chocolate ; Potatoes ; Savoy. 

For To-morrow.— A tin of PraAvns ; a slice, half an inch thick, from the middle 
of a Canadian Ham, if this is not in the house ; a Cow Heel from the tripe 
shop ; two-pennyworth of Mustard and Cress ; a pennyworth of Watercress. 

Breakfast. — Mock Woodcock. — Beat two eggs and mix with them 
a table-spoonfid of cream. Warm the ancliovies before the fire, put 
them with the eggs into a small saucepan, and stir them briskly over 



12^ A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



the fire for a minute or two till tlie sauce thickens. Add the minced 
tongue, spread the preparation on toast, and serve immediately. 
Toa'sted Bacon (January 19th) ; Milk Toast (June 17tli). 

Luncheon.— Scrag end of Neck of Mutton with Rice (February 
21st) ; Stewed Rhubarb (May 19th). 

Dinner. — ^lilk Soup (January 3rd). Beef Steak and Mushroom 
PIq^ — Mix together on a plate a table-spoonful and a haK of flour, 
a heaped tea-spoonful of salt, and half a tea-spoonful of pepper. 
Take away the fat and the skin from the meat and kidney, and cut 
both into thin slices. Put a slice of kidney upon each slice of 
meat, dip the two into the seasoning mixture, and roll them into 
little rolls. Put a layer of the rolls at the bottom of a dish, put 
the mushrooms (chopped) upon them, and add the rest of the 
meat. Pour in stock or water to three-parts fill the dish. Make 
some good Rough Puff Pastry (May 29th) ; roll this out once till it 
is the third of an incli thick, and rather larger than the dish it is 
intended to cover. Cut off a strip all round the edge, and leave 
the oval piece in the middle the same size as the pie. Moisten 
the ed-e of the dish with water, lay the strip of paste on it, and 
stick the ends together with a little water. Brush the surface of 
the strip with water, cover the pie with paste, and press the edges 
together all round. Cut the edge of the pie evenly all round with 
a floured knife ; ornament the top with any paste that may be 
left, brush the top of the pie with ^"^^ make a hole in the centre 
to allow the steam to escape, and bake in a moderate oven. The 
pie should first be put in the hot part of the oven till the pastry 
rise-s and is firm, it should then be moved to the cooler part till 
the meat is done enough. It will take from two to three hours. 
If it is in danger of being too deeply coloured, a greased paper should 
be laid upon it. This method may be followed for all meat pies. 
Fresh rump steak, or the inside of a sirloin, or the tender part of the 
round, are the best portions that can be taken for a beef -steak pie, 
although a very good pie may be made of buttock steak. If liked, 
fresh oysters, or tinned oysters with their liquor, can be substituted 
for the mushrooms, or a few parboiled potatoes cut into slices can 
be introduced. It is always best to have a little good gravy boiling 
hot ready to be put into the pie through the hole in the top after 
it is baked. Savoy (June 4th); Potatoes (May 12tli) ; Chocolate 
Pudding (July 24th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Turn and rub the mutton in the pickle. 

2. Turn and rub the beef in the brine. 

3. Make the Ground Rice Mould for luncheon to-morrow (August 



7th). 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



129 



March 27th, 



Breakfast. 




Luncheon. 


Dinner. 


PrawiDs. 




Cow Heel, with Parsley 


Half a dozen Oysters each, 


FneJ Ham nnd Eggs. 




Sauce. 


with Brown Bread and 


Hot Buttered Toust. 




Ground Rice Mould, witli 


Butter and Cut Lemon. 


Dry Toast. 




Jam. 


Boiled Eabbits and Bacon. 


Mustard and Cress. 






Onion Sauce. 


Browu and Wliite 


Bread 




' Mashed Potatoes. 


and Butter. 






Macarom Pudding. 


Corn Flour Milk. 






Cheese and Watercress. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— Fresh Oysters (February 14th) ; two moderate-sized Ostend 
Rabbits (January 24th) ; hair" a pound of streaked Bacon, cat in rashers, if not 
in the house (see January 3rd) ; Potatoes ; Onions ; German Yeast ; Macaroni. 

For To-morrow.— A pennyworth of Radishes and a pennyworth of Watercress ; 
six pennyworth of Cream, half for the Palestine soup, and haLf for the goose- 
berry pie. 

Breakfast.— Prawns (Febmary 6tli and Vtli) ; Fried Ham and 
Eggs (March 5t]i) ; Corn Flour Milk (June 19tli). 

Luncheon.— Cow Heel, with Parsley Sauce (February 20th); 
Fvice Mould made yesterday. 

Dinner. — Oysters (February 14th) ; Boiled Rabbits (March 6th) ; 
Bacon (Januaiy 19th) ; Macaroni Pudding. — Break six ounces of 
macaroni into one-inch lengths, put these into a saucepan with 
plenty of hot water, and let them boil, without a lid on the saucepan, 
for twenty minutes. Drain away the water, and pour on a quart 
of milk, and add a slice of butter and three spoonfuls of sugar. 
Boil again till the macaroni is tender, without being at all pulpy. 
It will need about twenty minutes longer, but the time wiU vary with 
the quality of the macaroni. Let the mixture cool. Break two eggs 
into a bowl, grate a little nutmeg into them, and stir them lightly 
in with the macaroni and milk ; pour into a greased dish, and 
bake in a moderately-heated oven till the pudding is firm and of a 
light-brown colour. It will take about an hour. Onion Sauce 
(October 14th) ; Mashed Potatoes (May 12th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Turn and rub the mutton in the pickle. 

2. Turn and rub the beef in the brine. 

3. Pastry is to be made to-day (April 17th): one plum i)ie, one 
gooseberry pie, both made of bottled fruit (August 7tL) ; also rice 
cake (August 2nd), and Vienna bread (August 26th). 

4 Carefully preserve any little pieces of fried ham that may be 
left. They may be made into ham toast for breakfast to-morrow. 



130 



A YEAKS COOKERY. 



March 28th. 



Breakfast. 

Prawns. 

Ham Toast. 

Eadishes and Watercress. 

Di-y Toast. 

Brown and White Bread 

and Butter. 
Porridge. 



Luncheon. 

Gateau of Eabbit. 
Treacle Pudding. 



Dinner. 

Palestine Soup, made 

the Eabbit Stock. 
Pork k ritalienne. 
Browned Potatoes. 
Greens. 

Gooseberi-y Pie. 
Cheese. 



cl 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— A leg of snmll Pork, weighing not more tlmn four poiinds : 
qiiaiter of a poimd of best Kidney Suet for the treacle pudding ; three pounds 
of Jerusalem Artichokes for soup— artichokes will very likely be scarce now, 
as they are going out of season ; two pennyworth of Parsley, a larger quantity 
than usual will be needed because of the maitre d'hotel sauce; Potatoes, Greens. 

For To-morrow.— A pair of thick Soles (January 3rd) : four Sheep's Kidneys- 
fine, plump, and perfectly fresh; half a pound of rashers of Bacon, if tliis 
is not in the house ; one tin preserved Tomatoes ; two fresh Lettuces ; one 
pennyworth of Beetroot ; two pennyworth of small Salad ; half a pound of 
German Sausage for breakfast on March 30th. Very thick German sausage is 
not usually so good as that made of a small size. The former will not keep 
more than a day ; the latter, though more expensive, will keep for some time. 
Potatoes ; Sea Biscuits. 

BeeaK-FAST. — Prawns (February Vth) ; Ham Toast. — Take the 
remains of tlie dressed ham, weigh it, and supposing there is a 
quarter of a pound, proceed as follows : — Mince it as finely as possible, 
and put it into a small stewpan with two table-spoonfuls of the 
rabbit stock, one table-spoonful of cream (or of milk if cream is not 
to be had), a grate of nutmeg, and a grain of cayenne. Stir the mix- 
ture over a gentle fire till it is hot through. Have ready — toasted 
and buttered — a sUce of bread the size of the dish on which the 
mince is to be served, pour the mince upon this, and serve very hot, 
Porridge (January 25th). 

Luncheon. — Gateau of Ptabbit (July 9th). Treacle Pudding. 
— Clear the suet from skin and fibre, and chop it until it looks like 
fine oatmeal. Mix with it half a pound of fine flour, a tea-spoonful 
of moist sugar, an even tea-spoonful of baking powder, and half 
a pound of treacle. Add milk to make a thick batter. Grease a 
plain mould, pour in the mixture, and lay a greased paper on the 
top of the pudding. Steam for three hours. To Steam a Pudding 
put it into a saucepan which contains boiling water that will reach 
half way up the mould ; it must on no account be so high that the 
water can enter the mould or touch the paper ; and keep the water 
boiUng round it till done enough. If in any case the water touches 
the paper, it will absorb the moisture all through. The buttered 

Eaper keeps the condensed steam from falling into the pudding, 
iet the pudding stand a minute or two before turning it out, and 
send treacle sauce or sweet sauce to table with it (July 19tli). 

DiNNEPv.— Palestine Soup (December 8th); Pork a I'ltalienne 



A YEARS COOKERY. 



13] 



(December ISth); Browned Potatoes (October 18th); Greens (June 
4th) ; Gooseberiy Tart made yesterday ; Cheese (June 8th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Turn and rub the mutton in the pickle. 

2. Turn and nib the beef in the brine. 

3. Put a large breakfast-cupful of white haricot beans to soak 
all night in cold water. 

4. Make custard blancmange for dinner to-morrow (August 4th). 



Sunday, March 29th 



Breakfast. 


Dinner. 


Tea. 


Supper. 


Savoury Eggs. 


Filleted Soles, i la 


Brown and White 


Cold Sour Mutton. 


Kidneys and Bacon. 


■ Maitre d' Hotel. 


Bread and Butter. 


Haricot Salad. 


Vieuna Bread. 


Sour Mutton. 


Vienna Bread, 


Plum Pie. 


Dry Toast. 


Potato Snow. 


Strawberry Jam. 


Cheese. 


Brown and White 


"White Haricot 


Bice Cake. 




Bread and Butter. 


Beans. 






Biscuits and Milk. 


Custard Blanc- 
mange with 
Lemon Syrup. 




. 




Cheese. 


~ 





Breakfast. — Savoury Eggs (January 1st); Kidneys and Bacon 
(January 2nd) ; Biscuits and Milk (June 14th) ; Vienna Bread 
(August 26th). 

Dinner. — Filleted Soles ct la Maitre cV Hotel. — Follow the 
directions given for soles filleted, rolled, and baked (March 1st), 
but serve Maitre d'Hotel Sauce (May 6th) with the fish instead 
of Beurre Noir. Sour Mutton. — This is a German dish, but almost 
every one who tastes it likes it. _ Drain and wipe the mutton that 
has been in pickle, and roast it in the usual way. Half an hour 
before it is done enough, pour a cupful of the pickle into the tin 
with it, and baste the meat well with the liquor. In Germany this 
joint is always baked, and a couple of potatoes are put into the 
baking-tin to thicken the gravy. Potato Snow (April 7th) ; White 
Haricot Beans (June 20th) ; Custard Blancmange with Lemon Syrup 
(August 4th and March 19th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 

Tea. — Vienna Bread (August 26th) ; Rice Cake (August 2nd). 

Supper. — Haricot Salad. — Prepare the salad in the usual way 
{see March 13th); arrange it round a dish; toss the haricot beans 
in the same kind of sauce used for the lettuce; pile them in the 
centre of the dish, and serve. Plum Pie (August 7th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Turn and rub the beef iu the brine. 

2. Fillet the anchovies foi' breakfast to-morrow morning (January 
18th). 

3. When preparing the salad, leave a little small salad to bo 
sensed with the anchovies to-morrow. 



132 



A YEARS COOKERY. 



March 30th 



Breakfast. 

Anchovies and Hard-boiled 

Eggs. 
German Sausage. 
Vienna Bread. 
Dry Toast. 
Brown and White Bread and 

Butter. 
Porridge, 



Luncheon. 

Mutton k la Sauce Piquante. 
Hasty Pudding. 



Dinner. 

Tomato Puree. 

Boiled Salt Beef. 

Potatoes. 

Carrots. 

Parsnips. 

Apple Gateau. 

Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— Two pounds of Apples ; Potatoes, Carrots, Parsnips. 

For To-morrow.— Quarter of a pound of Normandy Pippins, if not in the house ; 

a piece of Gammon of Bacon, weighing about four pounds ; the whole or 

part of a large fresh Ox Cheek. 

Breakfast. — Anchovies and Hard-boiled Eggs (January 18th); 
German Sausage (June 6th) ; Vienna Bread (August 26th) ; Porridge 
(January 25th). 

Luncheon. — Mutton cb la Sauce Piquante. — Cut what is left on 
the leg of mutton into neat slices. IMince very finely a piece of 
garlic about the size of a small pea, and one shalot. Melt in a 
saucepan a piece of butter about the size of a walnut, throw in the 
garlic and shalot, and add a table-spoonful of flour. Mix all over the 
fire for a minute or two ; add a tea- spoonful of chopped parsley, a table- 
spoonful of vinegar, and a wine-glassful of stock, and boil together 
for a quarter of an hour. Put in the sliced meat ; let it get hot in 
the sauce, but it must not boil. Serve immediately with toasted 
sippets and pickled gherkins round the dish. Hasty Pudding. — 
Put as much milk as will be required into a saucepan with a pinch 
of salt. Let it boil up, then sprinkle flour slowly in with the left 
hand, at the same time stirring the pudding briskly with a spoon 
held in the right hand. If any lumps collect, draw them to the side 
of the fire and press them out with the back of the spoon. When 
the pudding is a thick paste, let it boil a minute or two longer, still 
stirring it, then put it into a pie-dish with a slice of fresh butter, and 
serve. Treacle or sugar and cream may be eaten with this iDudding. 
Hasty pudding may be eaten at breakfast instead of porridge. 

Dinner. — Tomato Pur6e (March 11th); Boiled Beef (February 
23rd) ; Carrots (July 6th) ; Parsnips (September 30th) ; Apple Gateau 
(September 24th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. If the bacon is very dry soak it for three or four hours. In any 
case wash it well and scrape the under part. Put it into a stewpan 
with the cold water and cover it ; bring it to the boil, skim, and simmer 
very gently for two hours, half an hour to the pound. Draw off the 
skin, sift bread-raspinga over the top, and the bacon is ready. It can 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



133 



be used for breakfast to-morrow morning. For bread-raspings see 
Remarks after Breakfast, January 2nd. 

2. Boil the brine ; let it go cold, then follow the directions given 
in Note 5, February 6th. 

3. Soak half a pound of Normandy pippins in cold water. 

4. \Vhen cutting the German sausage take a slice off the end, and 
put this in its place again before putting the sausage away ; it will 
then be kept from getting dry. 



March 31st. 



Breakfast. 



Boiled Bacon. 

Poaclied Eggs on Toast. 

Vienna Bread, 

Brown and White Bread 

and Butter. 
Marmalade, 
Porridge. 



Luncheon. 

Macaroni Cheese. 
Normandy Pippins. 
Milk. 



Dinner. 

Fried Smelts. 

Cold Beef. 

Mashed Potatoes. 

Salad. 

Golden Pudding. 

Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day. — Smelts, one for each person and one over (see Marketing 

February 4th) ; Parsley, Potatoes, Salad ; six ounces of Suet. 
For To-morrow.— One tin of Pilchards (January 23rd) ; a pennyworth ol 

Watercress. 

Bee AKF AST.— Bacon, boiled yesterday ; Poached Eggs (February 
6th) ; Vienna Bread (August 26th) ; Porridge (January 25th). 

Luncheon.— Macaroni Cheese (March 20th) ; Normandy Pippins 
(August 16th). 

Dinner. — Fried Smelts (February 4th). The beef boiled yester- 
day can be served cold with salad. Many people are particularly 
fond of cold boiled beef. Mashed Potatoes (May 12th) ; Carrots 
(July 6th); Golden Pudding (May 4th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Turn and rub the ox-cheek in the brine. 

2. Wash a pound of prunes, and put them to soak all night in 
cold water. 

3. Put a cupful of green lentils to soak in cold water. 



FRUITS IN SEASON SUITABLE FOR DESSERT 
IN MARCH. 

Apples ; Oranges ; Bananas ; Grapes ; Pomeloes ; Shaddocks ; 
Nuts (Filberts, Cobs, Walnuts, Bra^s, Almonds, Barcelonas) : 
Almonds and Raisins ; French Plums ; Figs ; Dates ; Crystallised 
Fruits ; Foreign Preserved Fruits. 



134 



A YEARS COOKERY. 



APEIL. 

Towards the end of April or at the beginning of May rhubarb 
jam may be made. It is best to preserve rhubarb at the latter end 
of the season, because then it does not contain so much water. Take 
as much rhubarb as may be thought right, peel it and cut it into small 
pieces. Weigh it, and with each pound of fruit take one pound of 
loaf sugar, the thin rind of half a lemon chopped fine, a quarter of an 
ounce of sweet almonds blanched and chopped fine, and a quarter of 
an ounce of butter. Bring the fruit slowly to the boil, add the 
sugar, stir it constantly and skim carefully ; then boil it rather 
quickly, till a little will set when it is put upon a plate. It will 
take about one hour and a half from the time it simmers equally 
all over. Just at the last stir in a Avine-glassful of whiskey for each 
seven pounds of fruit. Put the jam into jars, and tie these down in 
the usual way. 



Breakfast. 

Pilchards. 

Boiled BacoH. 

Hot Toast. 

Dry Toast. 

Watercress and Eadishes. 

Brown and White Bread 

and Butter. 
PoiTidge. 



April 1st. 

Luncheon. 

Buhble and Squeak. 
Stewed Prunes. 



Dinner. 

Lentil Soup. 
Stewed Ox-tails. 
Potatoes. 
Broccoli 

Wyvem Puddings. 
Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— Broccoli ; two Ox-tails (the butcher should be asked to send 
these home ready jointed); a pennyworth of Parsley; Potatoes, Broccoli, 
Carrots, Turnips, Onions. 

For To-morrow.— Scallops for breakfast (March 7th) ; German Sausage ; Fresh 
Rolls (September 3rd). 

Breakfast.— Pilchards (January 23rd) ; Bacon, Boiled (March 
30th) ; Radishes (March 12th) ; Porridge (January 25th). . 

Luncheon.— Bubble and Squeak (January 22nd), made of the 
unsightly remains of the boiled beef. Stewed Prunes (February 27th). 

Dinner.— Xe?^^^7 Soup.— Make the soup of the beef liquor, first 
tasting it to make sure that it will not be too salt. A little of the 
bacon liquor will be an improvement. Drain the lentils, and put 
them into a stewpan with the stock, and throw in two onions, two 
carrots, a turnip, a bunch of parsley, a pinch of savoury herbs, a bay 
leaf, and, more important than all, either half-a-dozen outer sticks 
of celery or half a tea-spoonful of bruised celery seed, and a crust of 
stale bread. Let the liquor boil, skim it occasionally to take off the 
dark film that keeps rising to the surface, and boil gently for about 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



135 



four hours till the lentils are thoroughly soft. Strain the soup 
through a mre sieve, take out the parsley, and rub everything else 
patiently through the sieve into a basin. Keep a small portion of 
the liquor hot wherewith to moisten the pulp now and then, and so 
make it go through niore easily. Boil the soup again before sending 
it to table, and serve it very hot.^ Add a few drops of sugar browning 
to improve its appearance. Stir it frequently whilst boiling it, to 
keep it from burning. Some people add a cupful of boihng milk 
to this soup. Stewed Ox-tails (May 8th) ; Potatoes (May 6th) ; 
Broccoli (April 25th) ; Wyvern Puddings (May 9th> ; Cheese 
(June 8th). 

Tilings that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Turn and rub the cheek in the brine. 

2. Put two table-spoonfuls of tapioca mth an inch or two of thin 
lemon-rind to soak all night in a pint of water. 

3. Make the hydropathic pudding for dinner to-morrow of bottled 
raspberries (June 16th). 



Breakfast. 

German Sausage. 

Scallops. 

Rolls. 

Dry Toast. 

Marmalade. 

Brown and White Bread 

and Butter. 
Porridge. 



April 2nd. 

Luncheon. 

stewed Ox Kidney. 
Tapioca and Apples. 



Dinner. 

Parsnip Soup. 

Chicken Saiit^ aux Cham. 

pignons (made of tinned 

chicken). 
Potatoes. 
Seakale. 

Hydropathic Pudding. 
Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— One fresh Ox Kidney ; a tin of Boiled Chicken ; a tin of Cham- 
pignons, or a few forced Mushrooms ; half a pound of thin rashers of streaky 
Bacon ; Potatoes, Seakale. 

For To-morrow.— About four pounds of the Fillet of the Rump of Beef. {See 
Marketing, January 2nd. ) 

Breakfast. — German Sausage (June 6th) ; Scallops (March 7th) ; 
Rolls (September 4th) ; Porridge (January 25th). 

Luncheon. — Steived Ox Kidney. — Take the core out of the 
kidney, and cut it into neat pieces. Put these into a saucepan wdth 
a quart of cold water ; add an onion stuck with two cloves, and a 
little pepper and salt ; simmer all gently together for about an hour 
and a half. Twenty minutes before the kidney is to be taken up 
melt an ounce of butter or dripping in a stewpan, stir in a table- 
spoonful of flour, and beat to a smooth paste with the back of a 
wooden spoon. Add gradually a little of the liquor from the kidney, 
pour it back into the pan, and boil together for a few minutes. Put 
in a few drops of sugar browning, and serve with toasted sippets round 



136 



A y EAR'S COOKEllY. 



the dish. Potatoes or boiled rice are excellent served with this dish. 
Tapioca and Apples (February 18th). 

DiNiSTEE. — Parsnip Soup, made of the rest of the bacon and beef 
liquor (December 3rd). Chicken Saute. — Put a gill of oil into a small 
stewpan, let it boil, then fry the ]neces of cooked chicken in it. 
They will take about six minutes. When brown they are ready for 
serving. Have ready the sauce and the rashers of bacon broiled and 
neatly rolled. Arrange the chicken and bacon in a circle round a 
dish, pour the sauce over them and in the centre, and serve. The 
sauce may be made as follows : — Shred as finely as possible a piece of 
garlic the size of a pea, a shallot, and five button mushrooms. 
Melt half an ounce of butter in a stewpan, stir in a dessert-spoonful 
of flour, and add a quarter of a pint of water and the same quantity 
of stock, and stir in the minced vegetables. Take the sauce ofl' the 
fire, add a table-spoonful of cream and a squeeze of lemon-juice, 
and serve. The sauce must not boil after the vegetables are added. 
Potatoes (May 6th) ; Seakale (June 14th) ; Hydropathic Pudding 
(June 16th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Turn and rub the cheek in the brine. 

2. Kemember to brush the fillet of beef with vinegar, 
keting, January 2nd.) 



{See Mar- 



Breakfast. 

Buttered Eggs. 

German Sausage. 

Hot Toast. 

Diy Toast. 

Honey. 

Brown and Wliite Bread 

and Butter. 
Porridge. 



April 3rd. 

Luncheon. 

Macaroni and Ham. 
Cake Pudding. 



Dinner. 

Cr^cy Soup. 

Fillet of Beef, Eoasted. 

Yorkshire Pudding. 

Baked Potatoes. 

Turnip-tops. 

Newmarket Pudding. 

Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— Half a pound of Naples Macaroni ; Potatoes, Turnip-tops. 
For To-morrow.— A dried Haddock ; a tin of Potted Grouse (January 7th). 

Breakfast. — Buttered Eggs (January 16th); German Sausage 
(June 6th) ; Porridge (January 25th). 

Luncheon. — Macaroni and Ham. — Either bacon or ham may be 
used for this dish, which is excellent. Boil half a pound of macaroni 
in slightly salted water for about an hour. AVhilst it is boiling, 
mince finely a quarter of a pound of meat from the gammon of 
bacon, and grate a quarter of a pound of Parmesan or other cheese. 
Drain the macaroni, and fill a plain mould (a cake-tin will answer the 
purpose) with alternate layers of macaroni, ham, and cheese, and 



A YEARS COOKERY. 



VS( 



flavour each layer witli pepper and salt. Beat two eggs, and mix 
them with a little milk. ^lelt an ounce of butter, throw it over the 
macaroni, and, lastly, throw the eggs and milk over all. Bake for 
half an hour in a moderate oven. Tie a napkin round the tin, and 
send the macaroni to table without turning it out. For economy's 
sake, one egg may be used and bread-crumbs substituted for the 
Parmesan. Cake Pudding (February 4th). 

DiNNEE. — Cr^cy Soup (January 5th); Fillet of Beef, Eoasted 
(February 11th or March 4th) j Yorkshire Pudding (November 26th) ; 
Baked Potatoes (May 4th) ; Turnip-tops (June 4th) ; Newmarket 
Pudding (June 2nd) ; Cheese (June 8th). 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Turn and rub the ox cheek in the brine. 

2. Put a breakfast-cupful of lentils to soak in cold water. 

3. Pastry is to be made to-day (April 17th) : open jam tart 
(August 7th), lemon cheesecakes (August 18th), apple pie (August 
7th) ; also make teacakes (August 26th) and Annie's cake (September 
25th). 

4. Put a tea-cupful of hominy to soak all night in cold water. 

5. If any beef be left it may be potted for breakfast, and used 
instead of the potted grouse (January 23rd). 



April 4th. 



Breakfast. 

Dried Haddock. 

Potted Grouse. 

Teacakes. 

Dry Toast. 

Brown and WMte Bread 

and Butter. 
Porridge. 



Luncheon. 

Baked Mackerel. 
Boiled Hominy. 



Dinner. 

Milk Soup. 
LentUs and Sausages. 
Potatoes, Fried. 
Vermicelli Pudding. 
Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— Three moderate-sized INIackerel. Mackerel can be bought at 
such a cheap rate that it is not so much thought of as it would be if it were 
dearer. It should be procured very fresh, as it quickly becomes tainted. 
When fresh, the skin is of a beautifxil sea-green colour, the eyes very bright, 
and the gills very red. The fish should be plump, but not over large. Three 
pounds of best Pork to make sausages (March 18th) ; two pennyworth of fresh 
Parsley: Potatoes. 

For To-morrow.— A slice of Ham, the third of an inch thick, if this is not in the 
house ; a quarter of a pound of Sorrel, a small Lettuce, and an ounce (that is, 
about a handful) of Chervil ; a pair of Guinea Fowls (see Marketing, Feb- 
ruary lUh) ; a slice of fat Bacon, it not at hanrh One pound of cold boiled 
new Potatoes, a sour Apple, the remains of the German Sausage, four 
Sardines, and a few Gherkins and Capers, will be required for the Russian 
Salad to-morrow evening. A small tin of Sardines ; two pennyworth of 
Vf atercress to garnish the Guinea Fowl ; Potatoes, Seakale. 



138 



A YEARS COOKERY. 



Breakfast. — Dried Haddock (January 27tli) ; Potted Grouse 
(January 7tli) ; Teacakes (February 14th) ; Porridge (January 25th). 

Luncheon. — Baked Mackerel (April 15th) ] Boiled Hominy 
(February 11th). 

Dinner.— Milk Soup (January 3rd) ; Lentils and Sausages. To 
make sausages, see March 18th. Fry or bake the sausages (January 
7th and December 13th). Boil the lentils (March 2nd). Cover the 
bottom of a dish with the lentils, arrange the sausages on the top, 
and serve very hot. Potatoes, Fried (February 2nd); Vermicelli 
Pudding (August 1st) ; Cheese (June 8th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Turn and rub the ox-cheek in the brine. 

2. If any hominy is left, preserve it. It can be fried for breakfast 
on April 6th. 

3. Pluck the guinea fowls, and prepare them for roasting to- 
morrow. Cure the feathers (February 28th). 

4. Make a little Mayonnaise sauce for the salad to-morrow (August 
30th). If this is put into a bottle and corked well down, it will 
keep for some weeks. It takes a good deal of making, therefore it 
will be well not to put it off till Sunday. 



Sunday, April 5th. 



Breakfast. 


Dinner. 


Tea. 


Supper. 


Fried Ham. 


inik Soup. 


Brown and Wliite 


Russian Salad. 


Fried Eggs. 


Guiuea Fowl. 


Bread and Butter. 


Apple Pie. 


Teacakes. 


Bread Sauce. 


Apple Jelly. 


Half of Lemon 


Dry Toast. 


Brown Gravy. 


Annie's Cake. 


Cheesecakes. 


Urown and White 


Potatoes. 




Cheese. 


Bread and Butter. 


Seakale. 






Porridge. 


Hayrick Puddings. 
Cheese. 







Breakfast. —Fried Ham (March 5th) ; Fried Eggs (March 5th) ] 
Teacakes (February 14th) ; Porridge (January 25th). 

Dinner.— Milk Soup (January 3rd). Guinea i^o^^Z.— Properly, a 
guinea fowl ought to be larded. The operation is not at all difficult, 
but if the cook is afraid of it she may dispense with it, and tie a 
slice of fat bacon over the breasts of the birds. It is best to tie 
a piece of greased paper also round the birds before putting them 
down to the fire; this paper can be removed ten minutes before 
the guinea fowls are taken up. For the rest, see June 30th. Brown 
gravy (October 18th) should be poured into the dish (not over the 
birds), and more may be sent to table in one tureen and bread sauce 
in another. The appearance of the birds will be improved if a 
little clear brown gravy be boiled quickly down to glaze (March 21st) 
and poured over them, and the dish may be garnished with water- 
cress. A fine young guinea fowl would need about tliirty-five 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



139 



minutes' roasting before a clear, quick fire. Bread Sauce (October 
18th); Potatoes (April 7tli) ; Seakale (June 14th); Hayrick Puddings 
(March 19th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 

Tea. — Annie's Cake (September 25th). 

Supper. — Russian Salad. — Pick four ounces of meat from the 
guinea fowl. (Cooked veal or any white meat might be used for this 
purpose.) Cut into small pieces one pound of cold boiled potatoes 
and four sardines, and mince finely a sour apple, pared and cored, and 
a tea-spoonful of capers. Slice thinly an inch of German sausage 
and six pickled gherkins. Put all these ingredients into a dish, mix 
them thoroughly ; then toss them up, just before serving, with a 
quarter of a pint of Mayonnaise sauce. Garnish with hard-boiled 
egg and strips of boiled beetroot. If more convenient, ham can be 
used instead of German sausage, and anchovies instead of sardines. 
Apple Pie (August 7th) ; Lemon Cheesecakes (August 18th). 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Turn and rub the ox-cheek in the brine. 

2. Preserve the bones and trimmings of the guinea fowl. 

3. If it can be managed without inconvenience, leave the legs of the 
guinea fowl untouched ; then devil them for breakfast (January 14th). 



April 6th, 



Breakfast, 


Luncheon. 


Dinner. 


Devilled Dinim -sticks or 


Beef Collops. 


Guinea Fowl Soup. 

Filets de Boeuf ^ la B^ax- 


Ham Toast. 


Lemon Cheesecakes. 


Sardines. 




naise. 


Fried Hominy. 




Mashed Potatoes. 


Dry Toast. 




Eoly-poly Pudding. 


Urown and Wlaite Uread 




Cheese. 


and Butter. 






Porridge. 







Marketing. 

For the Day.— The fillet end of the Sirloin of Beef. Choose a piece weighing 
about ten pounds, with a good undercut. If there is any difficulty in obtain- 
ing an undercut of a sufficient size (it is for dinner), a pound of Rump Steak 
can be obtained and used with it ; Potatoes ; six ounces of Suet (this can 
most likely be tr imm ed from the joint after the butcher has cut off as much 
as he wiU). 

For To-morrow.— Fresh Whiting (January 3rd). 

Breakfast.— Devilled Drum-sticks (January 14th) ; Ham Toast, 
made of remains of cook^ ham (March 28th) ; Sardines. The 
remainder of the tin opened for the salad may be put upon the 
breakfast table. Fried Hominy (February 12th) ; Porridge (January 
25th). 

Luncheon.— Take the undercut of the sirloin, and cut it out 
whole. Divide it into neat steaks half an inch thick ; trim these 



140 



A YEAR'S COOKERY, 



evenly, pepper them liglitly, rub them with oil, and leave them till 
wanted. Collect all the trimmings, mince them finely, and make 
Scotch coUops of it (January 9th). Lemon Cheesecakes (Augaist 18th). 
Dinner. — Guinea Fowl Soup (February 16th). Filets de Boeuf 
cl la Bearnaise. — Cook the fillets on a gridiron over a clear fire {see 
Broiled Steak, January 22nd). Turn them frequently; they will 
be done enough in about five minutes. Make a little B6arnaise 
sauce (March 23rd), and spread a portion of it upon each cutlet. Put 
mashed potatoes in the centre of a dish, arrange the fillets round it, 
and serve (May 12th). This dish may be varied in several ways. Oyster 
sauce (October 16th), tomato sauce (July 15th), or piquante sauce 
(May 5th) can be served with the steaks ; or maitre d'hotel butter 
(April 15th) can be melted upon them ; or, after being dished in a 
circle, carrots, French beans, boiled chestnuts, or a Mac6doine — that 
is, a mixture of vegetables neatly shaped and cooked— can be put 
into the centre. Of course, care must be taken to have a sauce and 
a garnish that are suited to each other. Roly-poly Pudding (August 
18th) j Cheese (June 8th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Ox-cheeh Braivn. — Wash the cheek, put it into plenty of cold 
water, and boil till the bones can be drawn out easily. It will take 
about four hours, more or less, according to its size. Take away 
the bones and prickly portions ; cut the meat into neat pieces, season 
with pepper and salt, and put it while hot into a brawn-tin. Place 
a weight upon it, let it stand all night, and in the morning it may 
be turned out and served for breakfast. 

2. Boil up the brine, scald and dry the pan, and pour the brine 
back again. 

3. Cut off the flap of beef. Let the brine get cold, then put the 
flap into it. 

4. Put a cupful of white haricot beans to soak all night in cold 
water. 



April 7th, 



Breakfast. 


Luncheon. 


Dinner. 


Fried WMting. 


Tomatoes on Toast. 


Haricot Pure'e. 


Ox-cheek Brawn. 


Rice and Cheese. 


Roast Beef. 


Hot Buttered Toast. 




Potato Snow. 


Dry Toast. 




Mashed Parsnips. 


Marmalade. 




Open Jam Tart. 
Cheese. 


Brown and White Bread 




and Butter. 






Milk Toast. 







Marketing. 
For the Day.— One two-pound tin of Preserved Tomatoes ; one pennyworth of 

Parsley ; Potatoes ; Parsnips. 
For To-morrow.— Bloaters (January 2nd). 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 141 

Breakfast. — Fried Wliiting (January 17tli); Brawn made yester- 
day ; Milk Toast (June I7tli). 

Luncheon. — Tomatoes on Toast (March 16tli) ; Rice and Cheese 
(February 18th). 

Dinner. — Haricot Pur^e (March 9th) ; Roast Beef (March 4th or 
March 8th). Potato Snoiv. — Boil or steam the potatoes in the usual 
way. Drain them, and put them at the side of the fire till they fall 
to pieces. Have ready a hot dish to receive them and a hot wire 
sieve. Rub them through the latter, letting tliem fall into the 
tureen in which they are to be served. Do not disturb the mass 
that falls, but send it to table as quickly as possible. If liked, it 
can be put before the fire for two or three minutes to brown the 
surface. To Boil Old Fotatoes.~Choo&e the potatoes as nearly of 
one size as possible, so that they may take the same time to cook. 
It is best to boil old potatoes in their jackets, and peel them after 
they are done enough. If they are diseased, however, they must be 
peeled in the first instance, and the eyes and black parts must 
be taken out with a sharp knife. In either case they should be 
thoroughly washed in cold water, and scnibbed with a scrubbing- 
brush. Careless cooks frequently peel potatoes without washing 
them, letting them drop as they are finished into the bowl that 
contains the skins, and they consider that they have done all 
that is necessaiy if they rinse the potatoes before putting them on 
to boil. By this means the potatoes become stained, and it is one 
reason why they so frequently look black when sent to table. If 
boiled in their jackets, put the potatoes into a saucepan with as much 
cold water as will cover them. Bring the water to a boil, sprinkle 
salt in (a tea-spoonful of salt to a quart of water), put the lid on 
closely, and simmer gently tiU a fork -will pierce through them 
easily. They will take from twenty minutes to three-quarters of an 
hour, according to their size and quality. Let them boil quickly for 
the last three minutes. Drain away the water, put a clean cloth 
over the potatoes in the pan, and put it at the side of the fire to 
let the moisture escape in steam. Draw off the skin without cutting 
the potato, and serve as quickly as possible. To boil potatoes with- 
out their jackets, cover them with cold water, and boil them, without 
salt, very gently — the slower the better. When they can be pierced 
through with a fork drain away the water, sprinl^le salt over them, 
and leave the pan uncovered by the side of the fire, shaking it 
occasionally to make the potatoes look floury. ]\Iashed Parsnips (Sep- 
tember 30th) ; Open Jam Tart (Augiist 7th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Keep the bloaters on a separate dish and away from all other 
food. 

2. Turn and rub the small piece of beef in the brine. 



142 



A YEAKS COOKERY. 



Breakfast. 

Bloaters. 

Ox Cheek like Tongue. 

Buttered Toast. 

Di-y Toast. 

BrowTi and White Bread 

and Butter. 
Porridge. 



April 8th. 

Luncheon. 

Shepherd's Pie (made of 

remains of Eoast Beef). 
Boiled Eice. 



Dinner. 

Crofite au Pot. 

Spanish Stew. 

Potatoes. 

Greens. 

Tinned Pineapple. 

Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— Two modei-ate-sized Ostend Rabbits (January 24th). The dealer 
should be asked to cut them up into neat pieces before sending them home. 
A tin of preserved Pineapple ; a pennyworth of Parsley ; Greens ; Potatoes ; 
half a pound of Bacon (January 3rd), 

For To-morrow.— A tin of Prawns (February 6th) ; a pennyworth of Water- 
cress; one tin of Potted Pheasant (see Remarks on Potted Grouse, January 7th). 

Breakfast. — Bloaters (January 3rd) ; Brawii (Note 1, April 6tli) ; 
Porridge (January 25tli). 

Luncheon.— Shepherd's Pie (January 12th); Boiled Rice (Feb- 
ruary 3rd). 

Dinner. — Croiite au Pot (May 25th). Spanish Stew. — Take a 
deep earthenware jar. Fill it with alternate layers of sliced onion 
and rabbit, and season each layer with a little pepper and salt. Lay 
slices of bacon on the topmost layer, and cover the stewpan securely 
by tying two or three folds of greased paper upon it. Put the jar 
almost up to its neck in a saucepan of boiling water, and keep it 
boiling for two hours and a half. It will not be necessary to leave 
any liquor in the jar with the rabbit, as the onions will yield 
sufficient moisture to stew the rabbit and to serve as gravy. If the 
onion flavour is objected to, the rabbits may be cooked in another 
way {see Index). Potatoes, Boiled (April 7th) ; Greens (June 4th). 
Tinned Fineapple. — Open the tin and draw oif the syrup. Boil it 
up with two or three lumps of sugar, and add a tea-spoon- 
ful of brandy. Let it cool. Arrange the slices of pineapple in a 
glass dish, pour the syrup over, and serve cold. The appearance of 
the fruit will be improved if a preserved cherry and a small ring of 
angelica be placed here and there on the dish. Cheese (June 8th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Turn and rub the beef in the brine. 

2. Do not attempt to clear soup the day before it is wanted. The 
stock may be made, but soup must be freshly clarified, or it will 
be cloudy. 

3. When making the stock (either of bones or fresh meat), be 
careful to remove the scum as it rises. If this is not done it will be 
difficult to clarify the soup. Also, before attempting to use the stock 
free it carefully from fat. It is supposed here that the stock is 



A YEARS COOKERY. 



143 



made from bones, and is to be clarified with raw beef. It might be 
80 made from fresh meat that it would need no clarification. (See 
Clear Soup made from Fresh Meat, July 30th.) 

4. Make the corn-flour blancmange for dinner to-morrow (.June 
15th). 



April 9th. 



Breakfast. 


Luncheon. 


Dinner. 


Prawns, 


Flap of Beef, Boiled, with 


Julienne. 


Potted Pheasant. 


Carrots. 


Eoast Leg of Mutton. 


Buttered Toast. 


Eice and Cheese. 


Yorkshire Pudding. 


Dry Toast. 




Potato Croquettes. 


Watercress. 




Tumip-tops. 


Brown and Wliite Bread 




Corn-flour Blancmange. 


and Butter. 




Cheese. 


Biscuits and Milk. 







Marketing. 
For the Day.— One pound of Shin of Beef to clarify the bone stock ; a well-hung 

Leg of Mutton (January 8th) ; Potatoes ; Tiu'nip-tops ; Yeast. 
For To-morrow.— Four pounds of salt Cod ; three or four Pigeons. Tame 

Pigeons can probably be obtained now ; they are better for being freshly 

killed (January 24th). A slice of Rump Steak ; Hot Cross Buns {see Note) ; 

half a pound of Bacon in rashers ; Potatoes ; Parsnips ; Horseradish. 

Breakfast. — Prawns (Febrviary Vtli) ; Potted Pheasant, see Re- 
marks on Potted Grouse (January 7th) ; Biscuits and Milk (June 
14th). 

Luncheon.— Flap of Beef, Boiled (February 23rd); Ptice and 
Cheese (February 18th). 

Dinner. — A^^e?wie (February 15th). — To make Clear Sou]:)^ 
take two or three pints of good stock (July 30th), well skimmed 
and free from fat. Half a pound of lean beef ^vill clarify one quart 
of stock. Cut the beef into very small pieces, and discard every 
particle of fat and sinew. Have ready a carrot cleaned and scraped 
to pulp, a turnip cut into dice, and the white part of a leek cut into 
small pieces. Put the stock (cold) into a stewpan, stir in the meat 
and vegetables, and keep stirring till the contents of the stewpan are 
on the point of boiling. As soon as this point is reached draw the 
saucepan back, skim the stocl^ carefully, and let it simmer by the 
side of the fire for twenty minutes. Strain it carefully through a 
napkin, pouring it in Avith a cup a little at a time. When it has gone 
through once pass it through a second time, and be careful not to 
disturb the sediment in the napkin, as this will act as a filter, and 
help to make the soup clear. In clearing soups and jellies it is not 
necessary that a jelly-bag shoidd be used. A perfectly clean cloth 
wrung out of boiling water, and fastened over the legs of a chair or 
stool turned upside down, will answer excellently for the purpose. 
(See figure.) If it is not thought desirable to use raw beef for clari- 
fying the soup, white of egg may be used instead ; but by the latter 



144 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



iDethod the soup will be impoverished, by the former it will be 
enriched. Clear soup forms the basis of many varieties of soup. 
Vegetables, neatly turned, fried in butter, and thrown into it, make 
it Julienne Soup • the same vegetables boiled in it, without frying, 
make it Soup a la Jardiniere. The addition to it of early spring 




Substitute for a Jelly Bag. 



vegetables makes Spring Soup, or Soup Printanier, and also Soup k 
la Mac(§doine. The introduction of homely vegetables, such as onions 
and cabbage, alter it into the Peasants' Soup— Soup a la Paysanne. 
Brussels sprouts thrown into it make it into Flemish Soup ; wliile 
two or three poached eggs laid gently in make it into Colbert's Soup. 
If crusts of bread are put in it becomes Croute au Pot ; if macaroni, 
it is Macaroni Soup ; if vermicelli is added, it is Vermicelli Soup 
The process of making this soup, however, involves a good deal of 
trouble, and this is a consideration in households where the number 
of servants is limited. Eoast Leg of Mutton (March 4th or March 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 145 



8th) ; Yorkshire Pudding (November 26th) ; Potato Croquettes 
[November 4th) ; Turnip-tops {see Cabbage, June 4th) ; Corn Flour 
Blanc-mange (June 15th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Put the salt fish to soak in cold water all night. 

2. Make the pigeon pie (May 15th) and also the rice mould for 
dinner to-morrow (October 7th). To-morrow is supposed to be Good 
Friday, therefore the pastry would be better made to-day : an apple 
pie (August 7th), and a currant cake (June 6th), besides the pigeon pie. 

3. Hot cross huns may be ordered of the baker, or they may be 
made at home. If the latter plan is adopted, an ounce of fresh 
German yeast will be required. Take three pounds of fine flour, mix 
a pinch of salt with it, and rub in eight ounces of good butter. Turn 
the yeast into a basin, and beat it up well with a table-spoonful of 
moist sugar till it is a liquid. Add a pint and a half of lukewarm 
water or milk and two well-beaten eggs, and mix all with the flour 
to make a batter. Sprinkle a little fiour over the dough, cover the 
bowl with a cloth, and let the dough rise before the fire for a couple 
of hours ; then knead it up well with ten ounces of sugar, half a 
pound of washed and dried currants, and a little grated nutmeg. 
Make the dough into buns. Lay these in rows on baking-tins, with an 
inch or two between each, cut them twice on the top with a knife to 
make the sign of a cross, and let them rise before the fire for ten 
minutes. Bake in a quick oven. This quantity will make about 
three dozen buns. The buns can be toasted and buttered, or made 
hot in the oven, like teacakes, before serving. 



April lOth. 

[Supposed to be Good Friday.) 



Breakfast. 



Prawns. 

Toasted Bacon, 

Hot Cross Buns, Toastrd 

and Buttered. 
Cold Buns, Buttered. 
Brown and White Bread 

and Butter. 
Marmalade. 
Com Flour Milk. 



Luncheon. | Dinner. 

Mutton Croquettes. Salt Fish. 

Sago Pudding. , Egg Sauce. 

Boiled Parsnips. 
Hashed Mutton. 
, Pigeon Pie. 
! Potatoes. 

Eice Mould, with Comp5t« 
! of Oranges. 
Cheese. 



Breakfast.— Prawns (February 7th) ; Toasted Bacon (January 
19th) ; Hot Cross Buns (Note 3, April 9th) ; Corn Flour Milk (June 
19th). 

LtJNCHEON. — Neat slices can be cut from the cold leg of mutton 
to make hash for dinner, and the unsightly remnants can be used 
for the croquettes (January 6th) ; Sago Pudding (March 9th). 

K 



116 



A YEARS COOKERY- 



Dinner.— /S'rt/^ Fish. — Take the fish out of the water in which 
it has been soaked, wash it well, and put it into a fish-kettle with 
plenty of cold water. Bring it gently to a boil, clear off* the scnm, 
and let it simmer till the flesh will leave the bone easily. A piece 
weighing three or four pounds will talie from half to three-quarters 
of an hour. Drain it, put it on a dish covered with a napkin, garnish 
with parsley and tufts of scraped horseradish. Send egg sauce to 
table in a tureen, and boiled parsnips as an accompaniment. Egg 
Smice. — Boil three eggs for ten minutes till they are hard. When 
cold, shell them and cut them up, first in slices and afterwards in 
dice. Have ready half a pint of melted butter, stir the Qgg into it, 
make it hot without allo-^ang it to boil, and serve. Boiled Parsnips 
(September 30th) ; Hashed Mutton (May 18th) ; Pigeon Pie (May 15th) ; 
Potatoes (May 12th); Pace Mould made yesterday (October 7th); 
Compote of Oranges (December 6th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Make stock of the leg of mutton bone (February 13tli). 

2. Boil the brine and scald the pan. 



Breakfast. 

Boiled Eggs. 

Potted Pheasant. 

Hot Buttered Toast. 

Dry Toast. 

Brown and WMte Bread 

and Butter. 
Porridge. 



April nth, 

Luncheon. 

Salt Cod E^chaiiff^. 
Brown Betty. 



Dinner. 

Vermicelli Soup. 
Stewed Steak. 
Baked Potatoes. 
Greens. 

Preserved Peacheai 
Custard. 
Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— Three pounds of tender Steak. It should be cut evenly, and be 
about an inch and a half thick (see Marketing, January 1st). One tin of Pre- 
served Peaches ; one pennyworth of Parslej; ; Potatoes, Greens, Turnips, 
Carrots, Onions, and a few baking Apples ; eight pounds of the middle cut 
of the Silverside of Beef. 

For To-morrow.— One two-pound tin of Preserved Tomatoes ; fore-quarter of 
Lamb ; quarter of a pound of Chocolate ; new Potatoes, a bunch of Mint, 
Watercress ; ingredients for Salad (IMarch 13th). A fore-quarter of lamb is 
the prime joint. It should be fresh, as, like all young meat, it taints quickly. 
The quality of the fore-quarter may be determined by the appearance of the 
jugular vein or vein of the neck. If this is blue and firm the animal is 
freshly killed, if yellow or green it is stale. The shoulder, too, should be 
examined. If this has but little flesh upon it the lamb is not fine. Lamb, 
like mutton, should have the lean clear and red, the fat firm and white. It 
should be thoroughly cooked. When it cannot be dressed immediately it 
should be examined frequently, and wiped to remove any moisture that may 
form on it. Sardines (January 12th); and Melton Mowbray Pork Pie for 
April 13th. 

Breakfast. — Boiled Eggs (January 5th); Potted Pheasant, see 
Remarks on Potted Grouse (January 7th) ; Porridge (January 25thy 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



117 



LuNCHEOK— iS'a/^ Cod EechauJ'e.—Take tlie remains of tlie salt 
cod left from yesterday. Put the flesh (freed from bone and skin) 
into a pie-dish, pour what was left of the egg sauce over it, and 
pepper it lightly. Mash a few potatoes with milk or butter, place 
these round the edge of the fish, and bake for about half an hour, 
or till the potatoes are brightly coloured. If there were no egg 
sauce left, fresh melted butter may be made to moisten the fish. 
Brown Betty (November 26th). 

Dinner. — Vermicelli Soup (March 22nd) ; stock made of Leg of 
Mutton bone (February 13th); Stewed Steak (January 31st) ; Baked 
Potatoes (iMay 4th) ; Greens (see Cabbage, June 4th). Preserved 
Peaches. — Follow in all respects the directions given for serving 
tinned pineapple (April 8th), but add two or three drops of essence ol 
almonds to the syrup before pouring it over the fruit. Custard 
(August 10th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Make potted beef of any little pieces of stewed beef that may 
be left (January 23rd). 

2. Put the silverside of beef into the brine. 

3. Chop the mint for mint sauce, and put sugar on it to draw 
out the flavour (March 25th). 





Sunday, April 12th. 




Breakfast. 


Dinner. 


Tea. 


Supper. 


Savoury Eggs, 
Potted Beef. 
Buttered Toast. 
Dry Toast. 
Watercress. 
Brown and Wliite 
Bread and Butter. 
Bread and Milk. 


Tomato Pur6e. 
Fore-quarter of 

Lamb. 
Mint Sauce. 
New Potatoes. 
Salad. 

Chocolate Pudding. 
Cheese. 


Brown and Wliite 
Bread and Butter. 
Strawberry Jam. 
CuiTant Cake. 


Cold Lamb. 
Mint Sauce. 
Potato Salad. 
Apple Pie. 



Breakfast.— Savoury Eggs (January 1st) ; Potted Beef made 
yesterday (January 23rd) ; Bread and Milk (January 25th). 

Dinner.— Tomato Pur^e (March 11th). Fore-quarter of Lamb 
(March 4th or March 8th). — When the lamb is ready for the table 
the shoulder should be raised from the ribs with a sharp knife, and 
a slice of butter, a sprinkling of salt, and a squeeze of lemon-juice 
thrown over the meat. After this the shoulder can be put back 
again, and the lamb served with a frilled paper fastened round the 
*hank. Mint Sauce (March 25th). JVew Potatoes.— Wsish the new 
potatoes in cold water, and scrape them with a knife. Put them 
into boiling water, sprinkle a little salt over them, put the lid on 
the pan, and boil them till the centre feels tender when pierced 
with a fork ; they will take about a quarter of an hour. Pour off 
all the water, lay a clean cloth over the potatoes, put the lid on 



148 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



again, and let the pan stand by the side of the fire till the potatoes 
are dry. Take them up, and serve on a hot dish. Potatoes d, la 
maitre d' hotel. Pour a little maitre d'hotel -sauce over the potatoes 
iDefore serving them. Salad (March 13th) ; Chocolate Pudding (July 
24th) ; Cheese (June 8th) . 

Tea.— Currant Cake (June 26th). 

Supper. — Potato Salad. — Cut any new potatoes that may be left 
from dinner into thin slices. Put these on a dish with a few salad 
leaves of any kind finely shred. Toss them up in the usual way 
with pepper, salt, oil, and vinegar. Sprinkle a little finely-minced 
parsley and shallot on the top, and garnish with beetroot, hard-boiled 
eggs cut into rings, tufts of watercress, small radishes, shred 
cucumber or nasturtium leaves and flowers, or whatever else may 
be convenient. If potatoes alone are made into salad, it will be 
better for being mixed half an hour before it is_ wanted. If salad 
leaves are put with it it, must not be mixed till the moment of 
serving. Abnost all vegetables plainly cooked are excellent served 
as a salad when cold. Potato salad is very good mixed with a few 
sardines or a herring. (See Russian Salad, April 5th.) Apple Pie 
(August 7th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Turn and rub the beef in the brine. 

2. Put a tea-cupful of white haricot beans to soak in cold water. 



Breakfast. 

Sardines. 
Melton Mowbray. 
Hot Buttered Toast. 
Dry Toast. 
Marmalade. 
Porridge. 



April 13th, 

Luncheon. 

Cold Lamb. 
Mint Sauce. 
Baked Omelette. 



Dinner. 

Mullagatawny Soup. 
Haricot Mutton. 
Hai-icot Beans. 
Maslied Potatoes. 
Eoly-poly Pudding. 
Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— A fine Neck of Mutton ; one pound of good Beef Suet. 

For To-morrow.— Dried Sprats (February 27th) ; a small tin of Corned Beef. 

Breakfast. — Sardines (January 12th) ; Pork Pie ordered April 
13th ; Porridge (January 25th). 

Luncheon. — Lamb served yesterday ; Mint Sauce (March 25th) ; 
Baked Omelette (August 6th). 

Dinner. — MuUagatawny Soup (January 16th). Haricot Mutton, 
— Take the best end of the neck of mutton, trim away most of the 
fat, and divide the meat into neat chops. Prepare also three turnips, 
three carrots, one onion, and the white part of two leeks. Cut these 
into any shape that may be preferred, and throw them into cold 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



149 



water till wanted. !Melt a little butter in a frying-pan, put in the 

chops, and fry tliem for a minute till they are lightly browned on 
each side. Take them up, and fry the vegetables in the same fat 
for a few minutes, and turn them about to keep them from changing 
colour. Dredge flour over the chops, put them in a stewpan, lay 
the fried vegetables upon them, and pour in gradually as much warm 
water or stock as will just cover the whole. Bring the liquor to 
a boil, then draw it to the side of the fire, and simmer it gently till 
the chops are tender. It will take about an hour and a half. Pour 
off most of the liquor, and put it in a basin surrounded by cold 
water to cool. Carefully take off all the fat, season the gravy with 
pepper and salt, and add a table-spoonful of walnut or mushroom 
ketchup and a few drops of sugar browming. Put it on the fire 
once more till very hot ; arrange the chops neatly on a dish, pour the 
gravy over them, and serve. Haricot Beans (June 20th) ; Mashed 
Potatoes (May 12th) ; Roly-poly Pudding (August 18th) ; Cheese 
(June 8th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Turn and rub the beef in the brine. 

2. Hang the scrag of mutton in a cool place. 



Breakfast. 

Dried Sprats. 

Corned Beef. 

Hot Buttered Toast. 

Dry Toast. 

Brown and Wliite Bread 

and Butter. 
Milk Toast. 



April 14th. 

Luncheon. 

Liver and Bacon. 
Fried Koly-poly. 



Dinner. 

Fried Salmon Shad. 
Mutton, stewed mtli vegei 

tables. 
Caper Sauce. 
Boiled Potatoes. 
Guest's Pudding. 
Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Bay.— A pound and a half of Calf's Liver; half a pound of streaky 
Bacon, cut into rashers (January 3rd) ; a Salmon Shad, weighing about four 
pounds (March 17th) ; Potatoes ; another Scrag of Mutton, if necessary. 

For To-morrow.— A tin of Pilchards (January 23rd) ; Muffins (see Marketing, 
January 29th) ; Sea Biscuits. 

Breakfast.— Dried Sprats (February 28th) ; Corned Beef bought 
yesterday ; Milk Toast (June I7th). 

Luncheon. — Liver and Bacon (January 17th) ; Roly-poly, sliced 
(:March 6th). 

Dinner. — Fried Salmon Shad (March 17tli). /i'au(/ of Mutiojit 
Stewed with Vegetables (February 10th). — If liked, to make variety, 
the meat can be taken up when done enough, brushed over with yolk 
of egg, have bread raspings sprinkled over it, and be browned in a 
Dutch oven before the fire, then served as before. Caper Sauce 
(March 19th) ; Boiled Potatoes (April 7th). Guest's Pudding.— Take 



150 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



eight ounces of bread-crumbs that have been passed through a wii-e 
sieve. Put haK of these into a bowl, and pour upon them half a 
pint of boiling mill^. Lay a plate on the top, and let them soak for 
a Mobile ; then add the remainder of the bread-crumbs, three ounces 
of crushed ratafias, four ounces of moist sugar, four ounces of 
chopped candied-peel, four ounces of chopped suet, the grated rind of 
a fresh lemon, a pinch of salt, and a tea-spoonful of baking powder. 
Mix the dry ingredients thoroughly, then add four eggs, one at a 
time, and stir the mixture well. Pom- the preparation into a buttered 
mould, lay a buttered paper on the top, and steam for two hours. 
{See Treacle Pudding, March 28th.) Let the pudding stand a minute 
or two, turn it out carefully, and serve with sweet sauce. If liked, 
half a pound of stale bread can be used instead of fresh bread- 
crumbs ; but if this were done, the bread would need to be beaten 
well with a fork after soaking, and any lumps there might be would 
have to be taken away. Also, for economy's sake, two eggs and a 
little more milk might be used instead of four eggs. Cheese (June 8th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Turn and rub the beef in the brine. 

2. Take care of any little remnants of bacon there may be. They 
can be used for luncheon to-morrow. 

3. If supper is taken, it will be well to substitute Australian meat 
for liver and bacon, as the latter would be rather indigestible taken 
at night. 

4. Put a cupful of green lentils to soak in plenty of cold water. 



April 15th, 



Breakfast. 


Luncheon. 


Dinner. 


Pilcliards. 


Baked Mackerel. 


Lentil Soup. 


Corned Beef. 


Macaroni and Bacon. 


Top side of the Kound of 


Muffins. 




Beef. 


Dry Toast. 




Yorkshire Pudding. 


Brown and Wliite Bread 




Mashed Potatoes. 


and Butter. 




Seakale. 


Biscuits and Milk. 




Leche Crfeme. 
Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— Three moderate-sized Mackerel (April 4th) ; half a pound of 
Macaroni ; the top side of the Round of Beef ; eight ounces of Ratafias ; two 
pennyworth of Parsley ; Potatoes, Seakale. 

For To-morrow.— Six or eight small Soles, Slips (January 3rd) ; two Sheep's 
Kidnevs, to he stewed with the pork kidney ; a Loin of Pork, weighing about 
five pounds. The butcher should be asked to joint it and score it as if it were 
to be cooked directly ; Muflins. 

Breakfast.— Pilchards (January 23rd) ; Curried Beef bought 
April 13th ; Muffins (January 30th) ; Biscuits and Milk (June 14th). 



f 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 151 



Luncheon. — Baked Mackerel — -Wash the mackerel in cold water, 
cut off the tails and heads, and open the fish down the back. Wipe 
them inside and out with a soft cloth, and lay them open, skin down- 
wards, in a well-greased baking-tin. Sprinkle salt and pepper on 
them, squeeze a little lemon-juice over, and cover them with a piece 
of well-greased kitchen paper to keep them from burning. Bake in 
a moderate oven for about twenty minutes or till done enough. 
Have ready two ounces of maitre d'hotel butter ; spread a portion 
of this upon each fish, and serve. Mackerel cooked thus is excellent, 
and is very quickly and easily prepared. To make Maitre cVHotel 
Butter, pick some parsley from the stems, wash it, and chop it finely. 
After chopping it, wash it a second time, by putting it in a corner of 
a cloth, dipping it in cold water, and wringing it dry. This second 
washing takes away the acrid taste which is so objectionable in 
uncooked parsley. Put the parsley on a plate with its bulk in fresh 
butter, a little pepper and salt, and a few drops of lemon-juice. 
Work the ingredients together with the point of a knife tiU the 
mixture is smooth and of the consistency of very thick cream, when 
it is ready for use. If the butter is made a little time before it is 
wanted, keep it in a cool place, as, if melted, it would turn oily and be 
spoilt. Macaroni and Bacon (January 27th), made of remains of bacon. 
Dinner. — Lentil Soup (April 1st); Eoast Beef (March 4tK or 
March 8th) ; Yorkshire Pudding (November 26th) ; Seakale (June 
14th) ; Mashed Potatoes, moulded (October 23rd) ; Leche Creme 
(May 7th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Turn and rub the beef in the brine. 

2. It was recommended on the 13th of JSIarch that a small 
Canadian ham should be procured. If this were done, and if it has 
been used since, it is probable that now it will be nearly finished. 
Instead of keeping it longer and allowing it to deteriorate in quality, 
it will be best to make Potted Ham of what is left. Cut off all the 
meat and weigh it, and for every pound of lean take a quarter of a 
pound of fat. Mince it finely, or, if practicable, pass it through a 
sausage machine, and put half a salt-spoonful of cayenne, a quarter 
of a nutmeg grated, and a pinch of pounded mace with each pound 
and a haK of meat. Mix the ingredients thoroughly, press the mince 
into a dish, and lay a greased paper on the top. Bake it for about 
twenty-five minutes, put it into small potting jars, in which it can be 
served, press it down very closely, and cover the top wdth a layer of 
melted lard. Store in a cool place. The ham will keep good for 
months. The ham bone will be a very valuable addition to the stock - 
pot. 

3. Make custard blancmange for dinner to-morrow. If this ia 
inconvenient, the blancmange can be made first thing in the morning. 
It will set at this time of the year if it is poured into very small 
moulds (August 4th). 



152 



A YEARS COOKERY. 



4 Make a pickle wdth a quart of vinegar, a quart of cold water, 
and thirty peppercorns. Tarragon vinegar is to be preferred, or a 
portion of tarragon vinegar mixed with plain vinegar may be used. 
Rub the pickling pan quickly across with garlic, rub the pork wdth 
powdered sage, and lay the meat in the pickle. Add three fresh 
sage leaves, and leave it for three days, turning and rubbing it every 
day. The kidney may be taken out and stewed for breakfast to- 
morrow. 



April 16th. 



Breakfast. 


Luncheon. 


Dinner. 


Baked Slips. 


Devilled Eggs. 


Skate au Beurre Noir. 


Stewed Kidney. 


Boiled Eice. 


Cold Beef. 


Muffins. 




Salad. 


Dry Toast. 




Potato Mould 


Brown and White Bread 




Custard Blancmange, with 


and Butter. 




Lemon Syrup. 


Marmalade. 




Cheese. 


Com Flotir Millr. 







Marketing. 

For the Day.— Two pounds of Skate (January 10th) ; two heads of Lettuce ; 

twopeunyw^orth of small Salad; a half -penny worth of boiled Beetroot ; one 

pennyworth of Watercress ; Potatoes. 
For To-morrow.— A Cow-heel for luncheon ; Gorgona Anchovies will be wanted 

for breakfast ; Rolls (September 4th). 

Breakfast. — Baked Slips (January 7th). Mutton or Porh Kidneys 
Stewed. — Skin the kidneys, and without cutting them take out 
the fat, then cut th-em, the round way, into slices the thickness 
of a penny piece. Mix in a plate two tea-spoonfuls of chopped 
parsley, half a tea-spoonful of powdered thyme, and a little salt, 

Sepper, and cayenne. Sprinkle this mixture over the sliced kidneys, 
[elt two ounces of butter in a pan, put in the kidneys, and let 
them brown quickly on both sides. Dredge a table-spoonful of flour 
over them, and hold them over the fire for a minute or two, shaking 
them well to keep them from burning. Pour on a quarter of a pint 
of stock, and add the juice of half a lemon and a table-spoonful 
of mushroom ketchup. Bring the liquor to the point of boiling, 
arrange tlie slices of kidney on a dish, let the gravy boil for one 
minute, then pour it over them. If liked, toasted sippets may be 
put round the dish. Muffins (January 30th) ; Corn Flour Milk 
(June 19th). 

Luncheon. — Devilled Eggs (February 27th) ; Boiled llice (Feb- 
ruary 3rd). 

Dinner. — Skate au Beurre Noir (February 12th) ; Beef, served 
yesterday ; Salad (March 13th) ; Potato Mould (October 23rd) ; 
Custard Blancmange (August 4th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 



A YEAKS COOKERY, 



153 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Turn and rub the beef in the brine. 

2. Turn and rub the pork in the pickle. 

3. Preserve half of the small salad and half of the watercress 
bought with the salad for breakfast to-morrow. Cleanse it over- 
night, and lay it on a cloth to drain. 

4. Fillet the anchovies for breakfast to-morrow (January 18th), 
and put the fillets between two dishes. 





April 17th. 


• 


Breakfast. 


Luncheon. 


Dinner. 


Anchovies, with Hard-boiled 

Eggs. 
Potted Ham. 
Hot EoUs. 
Dry Toast. 
Watercress. 
Brown and Wliite Bread 

and Butter. 
Porridge. 


Cow-heel, with Parsley 

Sauce. 
Apple Balls. 


Milk Soup. 

Beef, with Acid Sauce. 

Turnip-tops. 

Potatoes. 

Cottage Plum Pudding. 

Cheese. 



Marketing. 
For the Day.— Six or eight baking Apples ; Turnip-tops ; Potatoes ; German 

Yeast. 
For To-morrow.— Dried Haddock ; one tin of Collared Tongue. 

Breakfast. — Anchovies, with hard-boiled Eggs (January 18th) ; 
Potted Ham, made April 15th j Rolls (September 4th); Porridge 
(January 25th). 

Luncheon. — Cow-heel, with Parsley Sauce (February 20th) ; Apple 
Balls (March 7th). 

Dinner.— Milk Soup (January 3rd) ; Beef, w^ith Acid Sauce (De- 
cember 4th) ; Turnip-tops {see Cabbage, June 4th) ; Mashed Potatoes 
(May 12th); Cottage Plum Pudding (June 6th); Cheese (June 8th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Turn and rub the beef in the brine. 

2. Turn and rub the pork in the pickle. 

3. Wash a pound of prunes, and put them to soak in plenty of 
cold water. 

4. Pastry is to be made. Apple balls (March 7th) ; for luncheon to- 
day, minced meat tart (made of the broken remnants of beef) for 
luncheon to-morrow {see Mutton Tart, January 10th), rhubarb pie 
(August 7th), jam turnovers (September 25th) ; also make Annie's cake 
(September 25th) and Sally Lunns (August 2Gth). The kinds of pastry 
most frequently used in domestic cookery are — 1, Puff Paste (April 
24th) ; 2, Short Paste (June 19th) ; and 3, Suet Crust, for boiled 
puddmgs and dumplings (June 25th). The first of these is the most 



L54 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



difficult to make. It is suited for superior pastry of all kinds, vol-au- 

vents, patties, tarts, meat pies, &c. Short Crust is employed principally 
for fruit pies and tartlets. There is a variety named Rough Putt 
(May 29th), which is easier to make than real Puff Paste, and another 
variety named Flaky Crust (August 7th), excellent for pies and tarts. 
An attempt will be made in this book to describe clearly the method 
of making all these pastes. Fine wheat flour should always be 
employed in making pastry, and for Puff Paste and the best Short 
Crust it will be advisable to use Vienna flour for the purpose. This 
flour is expensive, and it is also difficult to obtain genuine in country 
places ; but it is so very superior to even the best English flour, 
and, moreover, it rises so well and is so fine and white, that it is 
not to be compared with any other. Butter, too, if it is used at all 
in making pastiy, should be good and sweet, for nothing imparts its 
own unpleasant taste to everything it comes near more decidedly 
than common butter. Salt butter is not objectionable if itis well 
washed before it is used, then squeezed in a cloth to free it from 
moisture. Slightly rancid butter may be washed first in new milk, 
and aftei-wards in cold water, to sweeten it. The way to wash butter 
is to knead it with the hands in the cold fluid, very much as bread is 
kneaded. Good beef dripping, clarified (Note 5, February 19th), makes 
very good Short Crust for common use, especially if a little baking 
powder is put with it. Soft dripping is, of course, to be preferred, 
such as is obtained from roasted joints or that made by rendering 
down soft fat, as the twist from the top side of the round or ox flare. 
Mutton dripping is not to be recommended for making pastry, 
although hard mutton fat is almost as good as suet for making 
puddings and boiled paste. A small portion of good firm lard mixed 
with either butter or dripping is veiy much liked by some cooks ; 
this, however, is a matter of taste. 

5. Put a cupful of green lentils to soak all night in cold water. 



April 18th. 



Breakfast. 


Luncheon. 


Dinner. 


Dried Haddock. 


Minced Meat Taxt. 


Potato Puree. 


Collared Tongue. 


Stewed Prunes. 


Pork, German way of cook- 


Sally Lunns. 




ing, to imitate Wild Boar. 


Dry Toast. 




Lentils. 


Brown and Wliite Bread 




Potatoes. 


and Butter. 




Hydropathic Pudding (made 


Marmalade. 




of bottled red currants). 


Bread and Milk. 




Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— Potatoes ; Bottled Fruit ; one pennyworth of Parsley. 

For To-morrow.— Half or the whole, according to the size, of a Calf's Head. It 
may be either with or without the skin ; it is more expensive and better with 
the skin. The butcher should be asked to prepare it for boiling. Half a 



A YEARS COOKERY. 



155 



dozen small Mackerel (April 4th) ; three or four pounds of Gammon of 
Bacon; Sardines (January 12th) ; a tin of Salmon ; a tin of preserved Pine- 
apple ; two Lettuces ; a pennyworth of small Salad ; a pennyworth of Beet- 
root ; two pennyworth of Watercress (half for breakfast); Potatoes, Greens. 
If it may be permitted, order three pennyworth of Cream, to be served with 
the rhubarb tart to-morrow evening. 

Breakfast. — Dried Haddock (January 27th) ; Collared Tongue 
(January 2nd) ; Sally Lunns, served like Teacakes (February 14tli) \ 
Bread and Milk (January 25tli). 

Luncheon. — Minced Meat Tart, made yesterday ; Stewed Prunes 
(February 27tli). 

Dinner. — Potato Pur^e (January 26tli). Pork, German fashion. — 
Take the pork out of the pickle, rub it over once more with powdered 
sage, cover the skin with greased kitchen paper, and roast or bake 
it in the usual way (March 4th or March 8th). Baste it with the 
pickle in which it was soaked. For sauce, take a cupful of the pickle, 
and make it hot in a saucepan ; throw a good-sized lump of sugar 
into it, thicken with flour and butter, and add a few dj'ops of sugar 
browning and a glassful of red wine. In cooking, allow twenty 
minutes for each pound of meat. Lentils (March 2nd, the second 
method); Potatoes, browned in a mould (October 23rd); Hydropathic 
Pudding (June 16th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Turn and rub the beef in the brine. 

2. As soon as the calf's head is delivered, take out the brains, and 
throw them into cold water until wanted. 

3. To save trouble on Sunday evening, make a little Mayonnaise 
sauce, put it into a bottle, and cork it closely (August 30th). 

4. Pickle half a dozen small mackerel (August 28th). 



Sunday, April 19th. 



Breakfast. 


Dinner. 


Tea. 


Supper. 


Sardines. 


Milk Soup. 


Brown and White 


Salmon Salad (made 


Cold Pork. 


Calf's Head. 


Bread and Butter. 


of tinned salmon). 


Brawn Sauce. 


Boiled Bacon. 


Diy Toast. 


Rhubarb Tart. 


Sally Lunns. 


Greens. 


Strawberry Jam. 


Cream. 


Dry Toast. 


Potato Snow. 


wdoinie's Cake. 


Cheese. 


Watercress. 


Tinned Pineapple. 






Brown and White 


Custard. 






Bread and Butter. 


Cheese. 






Milk Toast 









Breakfast. — Sardines (January 12th); Pork left yesterday. 
Brawn Sauce (January 15th) ; Sally Limns (August 26th) ; Milk 
Toast (June 17th). 

Dinner.— Milk Soup (January 3rd). Calfs Head.— Take out 
the tongue, and if the head is not already perfectly cleansed wash it 
thoroughly. Put it into boiling water for ten minutes to blanch it; 
take it up, jDut it into a stewpan with cold water to cover it, and bring 



156 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



it to the boil; skim the liquor carefully, draw the pan back, and 
simmer the head gently till it is done enough. It will take from two 
hours and a half to three hours, according to its size, and it will require 
boiling half an horn- longer with the skin on than without it. Remove 
the skin and fibres which hang about the brains, drain away the water, 
and put them into a stewpau with water to which a table-spoonful of 
vinegar has been added. Skim the liquor carefully, and boil for a 
quarter of an hour. Boil the tongue with the head (it should be 
put into the water three-quarters of an hour before the head is 
taken up), and when done enough trim and skin it. A short time 
before the head is to be served, chop the brains rather coarsely, put 
them into a saucepan, with half a cupful of good melted butter, a 
table-spoonful of chopped parsley, and three powdered sage leaves, if 
liked. Add pepper and salt to taste, and a few drops of lemon- 
juice, and simmer gently for a few minutes. Put the tongue, skinned, 
in the middle of a hot dish, pour the brain sauce round, and serve. 
Dish the head on a separate dish, and garnish with cut lemon and 
parsley, or with sprigs of boiled broccoli round it. ^ Send parsley 
sauce to table in a tureen, and serve ham, bacon, or pickled pork as 
an accompaniment. Boiled Bacon (March 30th) ; Greens (June 
4th) ; Potato Snow (April 7th) ; tinned Pineapple (April 8th) ; Custard 
(August 10th); Cheese (June 8th). 

Tea. — Annie's Cake (September 25th). 

Supper. — Salmon Salad {see Mayonnaise of Salmon, May 24th) ; 
Rhubarb Tart (August 7th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Turn and rub the beef in the brine. 

2. Preserve the liquor the calf's head was boiled in. 
Preserve also the liquor in which the bacon was boiled. 
Put a breakfast-cupful of split peas to soak all night in cold 



3. 

4. 
water. 

5. Turn the mackerel in the vinegar. 



Breakfast. 

Picliled Mackerel. 

Bacon made hot. 

Sally Ltmns. 

Dry Toast. 

Browu and "White Bread 

and Butter. 
Marmalade. 
Corn Flour Milk. 



April 20th, 

Luncheon. 

Minced Pork. 
Jam Turnovers. 



Dinner. 

Pease Soup. 

Calf's Head, Hashed. 

Boiled Bacon. 

White Broccoli, 

Potatoes. 

Semolina Pudding. 

Cheese. 



Marketing. 
For the Day.— A pound of Apples ; White Broccoli 



Potatoes, 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 157 



Breakfast. — Pickled Mackerel (August 28tli) ; Bacon left yester- 
day, made hot (February 26tli) ; Sally Lunns (June 4tli) ; Corn Flour 
Milk (June 19tli). 

Luncheon. — Minced Porh. — Carefully cut away every jDarticle 
of meat from tlie leg of pork, mince it finely, take away all the fat 
and skin, and weigh it. Rub a stewpan quickly across with garlic, 
melt a slice of butter in it, and, supposing there is one pound of meat, 
put in four apples and four onions that have been pared, cored, and 
chopped small. Stir them over a gentle fire for a minute or two, 
then add a gill of the gravy left from the pork, or, if there is none 
of this, substitute two table-spoonfuls of the liquor the calf's head 
was boiled in and a table-spoonful of vinegar. Season the minced 
pork with salt and pepper, and, supposing there is one pound of 
meat, add a spoonful of mustard and a dessert-spoonful of flour. Stir 
the mince into the sauce, and let it simmer gently till it is heated 
throughout, but it must not boil. Serve with toasted sippets round 
the dish. Jam Turnovers (September 25th). 

Dinner. — Pease Soiq^. — Follow in all respects the directions given 
(April 1st) for making Lentil Soup, remembering only that the brown- 
ing will not be required. The soup may be made of a mixture of 
the calf's head liquor and the bacon liquor. It wdll be found that 
this stock is very greasy, therefore it will be well, after skimming 
away the fat that has risen to the surface, to simmer the stock for 
awhile by the side of the fire to make it throw up the grease, and 
then to skim this away as it rises. Calfs Head, Hashed. — C!ut the 
remains of the calf's head into neat pieces convenient for serving. 
Season these lightly with pepper, salt, and cayenne, flavour them 
with a pinch of grated lemon-rind, and dredge them well with flour. 
Supposing there is one pound of meat, take a pint of the liquor in 
which the head was boiled. Melt a slice of fresh butter in a stew- 
pan, put in the meat, and shake it over the fire for a minute or 
two till the butter is absorbed. Add the liquor, a shallot finely 
minced, and a tea-spoonful of lemon-juice, and simmer all gently 
together for a quarter of an hour. The meat, of course, must not 
boil. Arrange the pieces of meat on a hot dish, pour the gravy 
over, and serve immediately. A glassful of sherry can be added, if 
liked. Boiled Bacon made hot {see Luncheon, February 26th) ; White 
Broccoli (April 25th) ; Potatoes (May 12th) ; Semolina Pudding (March 
12th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Turn and rub the beef in the brine. 

2. If there is still any calf's head left, make it into a mould for 
breakfast. Calfs Head Mould. — Cut the meat into small neat 
pieces. Make also a little clear savoury jelly. Soak a plain mould 
in cold water, put a little of the jelly into it, and let it stiffen. 
Arrange the pieces of meat in it, and to improve the appearance 
of the dish mix with the meat something that contrasts in colour. 



158 



A YEAR'S! COOKERY. 



such as sprigs of parsley, hard-boiled eggs cut into rings or slices 
of pink ham. Leave a space between the ingredients so that the 
jelly can run between them. Almost fill the mould with meat, pour 
in the jelly and set the mould in a cold place. When wanted, turn 
it out, and garnish it with parsley. It will be a very good breakfast 
dish. When there is no cold calf's head Australian cooked meat 
can be used as a substitute. To make the clear savoury jelly see 
November 14th. 

3. When making the soup, remember to leave a little of the Uquor 
for the hash and the calf's head mould. 



April 21st. 



Breakfast. 


Luncheon. 


Dinner. 


Calf's Head Mould. 


Collared Tongue. 


Fried Plaice. 


Ham Toast. 


Macaroni Cheese. 


Dutch Sauce. 


Hot Buttered Toast. 




Boiled Beef. 


Dry Toaat. 




Carrots. 


Marmalade. 




Mashed Parsnips. 


Brown Bread and Butter. 




Potatoes. 


Porridge. 




Brown Bread and Butter 

Pudding. 
Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— Half a pound of IVIacaroni ; a thick Plaice (January 3rd). Although 
plaice may be had almost all the year, it is at its best from now to the end 
of September. It is a cheap fish and but lightly esteemed ; indeed, a great 
culinary authority has said that the worst cookery could do plaice no wrong, 
and the best could not do it good. It must be acknowledged that small 
plaice does not form a very appetising dish, but the same cannot be said of 
thick plaice. Cooked according to the recipe given below it is excellent ; 
and if a little Dutch sauce may be allowed also it is almost sure to meet 
with approval. Carrots ; Parsnips ; two or three pounds of the belly piece 
of Pork. 

For To-morrow.— Half a bundle of Rhubarb ; Mustard and Cress. Order, to be 
sent to-morrow, from three to four pounds of a loin of Mutton ; the best 
end t© be preferred (January 3rd). The butcher should be asked to bone the 
joint. Sea Biscuits. 

Breakfast. — Calf's Head Mould, made yesterday ; Ham Toast, 
made of remains of boiled bacon {]\Iarch 28th) ; Porridge (January 
25th). 

Luncheon. — Collared Tongue left from Saturday; Macaroni 
Cheese (March 20th). 

Dinner. — Fried Plaice. — Fillet the plaice. If asked, the fish- 
monger will do this, or if there is any difficulty about it, do not try 
to skin the fish, but in all else proceed according to the directions 
given for filleting soles (January 4th). Cut the fillets into neat 
pieces about two inches wide, dry them well by laying them in a 
cloth for a while, then roll them in flour. Fry them in plenty of hot 
fat (January 13th and March 24th) till they are brightly browned 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



159 



all over, drain them on kitchen paper, serve them piled on a dish 
covered with a fish paper, and garnish with fried parsley. Care 
must be taken that the pieces of fish do not touch each other whilst 
frying. If preferred, the plaice can be egged and breaded, or dipped 
in batter before being fried. Dutch Sauce (May 14th). Boiled Beef. 
— Take the beef out of the brine, wash it quickly in cold water or 
wipe it with a cloth, and boil it (February 23rd). Carrots (July 6th) ; 
Mashed Parsnips (September 30th) ; Potatoes (April 7th) ; Brown 
Bread and Butter Pudding (July 20th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Boil the brine and scald the pan. 

2. Make the rhubarb mould for dinner to-morrow (June 3rd). 

3. Put the pork into the pickle. It will be ready" for boihng 
April 25th. If preferred, a piece of pork can be bought on that day 
ready pickled. 



April 22nd. 



Breakfast. 


Luncheon. 


Dinner. 


Boiled Eggs. 


Cold Beef. 


Scallops. 


Potted Ham. 


Salad. 


Rolled Loin of Mutton 


Mustard and Cress. 


Plain Eice Pudaing. 


Browned Potatoes. 


Hot Buttered Toast. 




Turnip-tops. 


Dry Toast. 




Rhubarb Mould. 


Brown and Wliite Bread 




Custard. 


and Butter. 




Cheese. 


Biscuits and Milk. 







Marketing. 

For the Day.— Two heads of Lettuce ; a pennyworth of Endive ; a pennyworth 
of Beetroot ; two pennyworth of Watercress (half for breakfast to-morrow) ; 
Scallops (March 7th and January 3rd) ; Turnip-tops ; Potatoes; a pennyworth 
of Parsley ; a square piece of the thin Flank of Beef, weighing eight or ten 
pounds. 

For To-morrow.— Bloaters (January 2nd) ; a quarter of a pound of Macaroni, if 
not in the house. 



Breakfast. — Boiled Eggs (January 5th) ; Potted Ham made April 
15tli; Biscuits and Milk (June 14tli). 

Luncheon.— Beef boiled (April 21st) ; Salad (March ISth) ; Plain 
Pace Pudding ^February 24tli). 

Dinner. — Scallops (Note 3, March 7th). Rolled Loin of Mutton. 
— !Mince the fillet of mutton, and mix with it its bulk in finely-grated 
bread-crumbs, an ounce of mutton suet chopped, a shallot finely 
minced, a tea-spoonful of chopped parsley, a little pepper and salt, 
a grate of nutmeg and tlie same of lemon-rind, and enough Qg^ to 
bind the mixture together. Spread the forcemeat equally over the 
inner side of the mutton, roll it neatly len.gthwise, bind it tightly 
with tape, flour it well, and roast or bake it, as most convenient 
(March 4th or March 8th). Rub the inside of a saucepan lightly 



160 



A YEARS COOKERY. 



with garlic, put in the mutton bones, and add a shallot, a piece of 
carrot, a stick of celery or a pinch of celery seeds, dnd a pint of 
water or stock. Stew gently for a couple of hours. Strain the gravy, 
thicken it with flour, add a few drops of sugar browning, a table- 
spoonful of ketchup, and (if permitted) the same of port. Put the 
meat on a dish, pour the gravy round, and serve. A few glazed 
onions will be an excellent garnish for this dish (February 14th.) 
Browned Potatoes (October 18th); Turnip-tops (June 4th); Rhubarb 
Mould made yesterday; Custard (August 10th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Put the thin flank of beef into the brine. 

2. Keep .the bloaters on a separate dish and apart from everything 
else in the larder. 

3. Turn and rub the pork in the pickle. 



Breakfast. 

Bloaters. 

Hot Buttered Toast. 

Dry Toast. 

Watercress. 

Brown and White Bread 

and Butter. 
Corn Flour Milk. 


April 23rd. 

Luncheon. 

Bubble and Squeak. 
Jam and Bread Pudding, 
Economical 


Dinner. 

Macaroni Soup. 

Rump Steak k la B6amaise. 

Potatoes Souffle6s. 

Wyvern Puddings. 

Cliee«e. 



Marketing. 
For the Day.— From three to three pounds and a half of Rump Steak (see 

Marketing, January 22nd). Potatoes. 
For To-morrow.— Half a pint of forced Mushrooms : German Sausage for 

breakfast ; one Ox-tail ; the scrag of a whole Neck of Mutton (see Marketing, 

February 9th j. 

Breakfast. — Bloaters (January 3rd) ; Scalloped Eggs (January 
28th) ; Corn Flour Milk (June 19th). 

Luncheon. — Bubble and Squeak (January 22nd) ; Jam and Bread 
Pudding, Economical (February 23rd). 

Dinner. — Macaroni Soup (February 26th); Broiled Steak k la 
B^arnaise (January 22nd) ; Sauce (March 23rd). Potatoes Soiifflees ; 
Potato Ghix>s. — Take fine kidney potatoes, wash them, peel them, 
and cut them into slices as thick as a penny piece. As they are 
turned out of hand throw them into a IdowI of cold water to free 
them from the potato-flour, which \\dll be likely to prevent their 
being successfully fried. Half fill an iron saucepan with clarified 
dripping ; put this on the fire. Drain the potatoes on a cloth, and 
when dry, put them, a few at once, into a wire basket. When the fat 
boils — that is, when it is still and a steam rises — put in the potatoes, 



A YEARS COOKERY. 



161 



and shake them to keep them from sticking together. Draw the 
saucepan back, and let them simmer for about five minutes, or until 
a little piece pressed between the finger and thumb feels quite 
tender. The fat will by this time have cooled considerably, therefore 
take the basket out, and make the fat boil again. Put the potatoes 
into it, draw it back once more, and in two minutes the slices will 
be ready, inflated, and of a beautiful golden brown colour. Dry 
them on paper, put them on a hot dish, sprinkle salt over them, and 
serve immediately. These are Potatoes Souffl^es. For a change, 
they may be peeled round and round into ribbons before being 
immersed in the fat ; then they will be Potato Chips. The French 
cut potatoes into plugs about two inches long and half an inch 
wide, and fry them as described above {see also Potatoes, Fried, 
February 2nd). Wyvern Puddings (May 9th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Carefully preserve any little pieces of rump steak that may be 
left. They can be made to-morrow into Cornish pasties (August 
22nd) and beef patties. 

2. Turn the beef and the pork in the brine. 



April 24th, 



Breakfast. 


Luncheon. 


Dinner. 


Stewed Muslirooms ou 


Comisli Pasties. 


Ox-tail Soup. 


Toast. 


Preserved Tomatoes, witli 


Scrag of Mutton, Stewed 


German Sausage. 


Gravy. 


with Vegetables. 


Dry Toast. 




Mashed Potatoes. 


Marmalade. 




Queen's Pudding. 


Brown and White Bread 




Cheese. 


and Butter. 






Bread and Milk. 







Marketing. 

For the Day.— One two-pound tin of Preserved Tomatoes ; a penny^vorth of 
fresh German Yeast ; about two-pennyworth of Ice from the fishuionger, if 
the weather is at all warm, for making puff paste. Carrots, Turmps, Potatoes. 

Tor To-morrow.— One tin of Pilchards (January 23rd) ; one dressed Cow-heel 
from the tripe shop, for Beef ^ la Mode. 

Breakfast.— Stewed Mushrooms on Toast (March 20th); Ger- 
man Sausage (June 6th) ; Bread and :Milk (January 25th). 

Luncheon.— Cornish Pasties, to be made with pastry to-day 
{August 22nd) ; Preserved Tomatoes, with Gravy (March IGth). 

Dinner. — Ox-tail Soup (February 22ud) ; Scrag of Mutton, 
Stewed with Vegetables (February 10th); Mashed Potatoes (May 
12th) ; Queen's Pudding (August 9th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Turn and rub the beef in the brine. 

2. Pastry is to be made to-day : Cornish pasties (xlugust 22n(l) 



162 A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



and meat patties (July 17th) made of the remnants of steak (a few 
scraps will be all the meat required for these) ; red-currant pie, of 
bottled fruit (August 7th) ; lemon cheesecakes (August 18th) ; also 
teacakes (August 26th) ; and plain seed cake (August 14th) may be 
made. To make Puff Paste. — Choose the coolest part of the kitchen 
for making the pastry, and a few minutes before commencing wash 
the hands in hot water to cool them. If there is not a refrigerator in 
the house, have a basin filled with ice put ready in a cool part of the 
larder. In cold weather the ice may be dispensed with. Take equal 
weights of sweet butter and Vienna flour (for an ordinary pie, ten or 
twelve ounces of butter will be enough for one pound of flour). 



\ 




J 



Pastry Folded over thk Bptter. 



Put the flour on a board, mix a little salt with it, and make it into a 
smooth paste with a few drops of lemon-juice and cold water. It 
must not be too stiff". Knead it well, and roll it about till it is like 
putty : this is to make it workable ; then leave it for about five. 
p™n^'i" f^^^^f ^ ^^ ^^^tter in a cloth till every drop of liquid is; 
U^^}lt ^?'^'\ The butter should be very cold ; but if the paste 
^noot P.. >''vf^.i ^^ ^V*i^'^' ^'^ ^^^''^^ i* "^ay be worked till 
out o L ^^^'^^ *^'' ^^'^^'^ ?f .*^ ^ «^^^^^ «l^^Pe- Roll the paste 
b ttr^ dSo.^ ""'^ ''^^ '' '' "^ ''''^' ^ «i^^ tl^at when the 

to mee ev^n v^^.^^^^ ^^' ^T ^""'1^' ^^^^^ P^«*^ ^^^ be folded over 
about the Xd of '^^^TlT-'? the middle. Roll it once till it is 
whe^t fs bal il fl^^^ thick and be careful to roll it straight, or 
pushed an ™ .f^l V^^ ^^ one-sided. It is to be rolled, not 
thei^^^^^^ the butter break thimigh 

sa^ biit Ho f>.\! ^ ^'**^^ flour over and under the paste when neces- 
sary , but do this very sparingly, or it will be mottled. Fold over 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



163 



one-third of the length, flatten this lightly with the rolling-pin, and 
fold the other third over the top. This operation is called (jiving a 
turn. Put the paste on ice, or, if this is not at hand, in a draught of 





air, to cool it, for a quarter of an hour. Put it aA'ain on the board, 
with the rough edges towards the cook, and give it two turns : that 
is, roll it and turn it over twice. Then put it again upon ice, and 
repeat until it has had seven turns. Leave it on ice once more for a 
few minutes, roll it till it is a quarter of an inch thick, and it is ready 



164 



A YEAKS COOKERY. 



for use. Paste prepared like this should puff up to at least five times 
its original height. In summer time the yolk of an Qgg may be mixed 
with the cold water to make the paste in the first instance, but in 
winter this may be dispensed with. It is easier to make puff paste 
on a marble slab than on a wooden board. It will be understood 
that in making puff paste the great object is to keep the butter and 
paste in separate layers, and it is for this that it is so necessary to 
cool the paste between the turns. When puff paste is intended for 
fruit tarts and cheesecakes, a little sifted white sugar can be added 
to the flour. {See Rough Puft; May 29th). 



April 25th, 



Breakfast. 



Pilchards. 

Beef Patties. 

Toasted Teacakes. 

Dry Toast. 

Brown and Wliite Bread 

and Butter. 
Porridge. 



Luncheon. 

Cauliflower au Gratin. 
Baked Plum Pudding. 



Dinner. 



Baked Mackerel. 

Beef h. la Mode. 

Onions. 

Potatoes. 

Baked Batter, with Jam. 

Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— A good-sized Cauliflower. The true cauliflower is out of season 
just now, but white Broccoli, which is often called by the same name, will 
answer the purpose excellently. A quarter of a pound of Beef Suet. Two 
moderate-sized Mackerel ; two pounds of tender lean Beef (February 14th) ; 
Onions ; Potatoes ; a pennyworth of Parsley. 

For To-morrow.— A two-pound tin of Preserved Tomatoes ; a pair of Prairie 
Birds (February 28th) ; half a pound of Rashers of Bacon, if not at hand ; 
Potatoes ; Asparagus. Anchovies and Olives will be needed ; also materials 
for a salad— Lettuce, Watercress, Beet-root, &c. ; a few Radishes and Water- 
cress may be ordered for breakfast. 

Breakfast.— Pilchards (January 23rd) ; Beef Patties made yes- 
terday ; Teacakes (February 14th) ; Porridge (January 25th). 

Luncheon.— C«//2^^ozfer and Broccoli, To Boil; Cauliflower au 
Gratin ; Sauce Blcmche.—BoH a cauliflower in the usual way. To do 
this, sprinkle a little salt over it, pour cold water upon it to dislodge 
the insects, cut the ends of the stalks (the tops would be likely to dis- 
colour the vegetable), and remove any withered leaves there may be. 
Lay the cauhflower, head downwards, in salted water for an hour, 
wash it in two or three waters, and examine it carefully to be sure 
there are no insects in it. Have ready a large saucepan full of 
looiling water, throw a table-spoonful of salt_ into this, let it boil a 
minute, and skim it carefully. Unless this is done the cauliflower 
will iDe a bad colour. Put in the cauliflower head downwards, and 
if it should turn over in the water turn it back, and pio not piit the 
lid on the saucejmn. Boil the vegetable gently till the centre of the 
flower is quite tender. It will take from fifteen to twenty-five 
minutes, according to the size. It will be necessary to turn it round 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 165 



and try it when it lias been boiling a certain length of time, as this 
is the only way of determining whether or not it is done enough. If 
it is left till the stalks are tender the flower may be boiled too much. 
Take it up with a slice, and it is ready to serve. Melted butter in a 
tureen may be sent to table with it ; or when it is wanted very good^ 
a little Sauce Blanche may be laid over it by table-spoonfuls to com- 
pletely cover the flower. This is made a.s follows : — Melt an ounce of 
butter in a small stewpan, stir in three-quarters of an ounce of flour, 
and beat the mixture over the fire with the back of a wooden spoon 
till it is quite smooth and well cooked. The sauce will not oil if the 
flour and butter be well cooked together. Add gradually half a pint 
of cold water, and keep stirring till the sauce is smooth. Stir in a 
pinch of salt and the yolk of an egg, and the sauce is ready. For 
Cauliflower au Gratin, boil the cauliflower as above directed. Have 
ready two ounces of gTated Parmesan. Mix in a stewpan half an 
ounce of butter and one ounce of flour • add gradually a quarter of 
a pint of cold water, and keep stirring till the sauce boils and 
thickens. Add a table-spoonful of cream, a little salt, and a small 
pinch of cayenne ; take the sauce off" the fire, and stir in one ounce of 
the grated cheese. Cut away the outside greeia leaves, and with a 
cloth squeeze the water from the cauliflower. Put it on a dish, lay 
the sauce upon it, sprinkle the rest of the cheese over it, and brown 
it before the fire. Serve very hot. The rind of cheese that has gone 
dry may be grated and used for this dish instead of Parmesan; 
indeed, it affords a very agreeable mode of using old pieces of cheese. 
Baked Plum Pudding (February 25th). 

Dinner. — Baked Mackerel (April 15th) ; Beef k la Mode (February 
14th) ; Onions, Glazed (February 14th) ; Potatoes (April 7th) ; Baked 
Batter Pudding, with Jam (February 5th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Turn the beef in the brine. 

2. Boil the Pickled Porh. To do this, put it into a saucepan, cover 
it with cold water, and bring it gently to the boil. Draw the pan 
back, and simmer gently for about twenty minutes to the pound, or 
more if very thick. The skin should be left on, and the pork served 
without bread raspings. 

3. Pluck the birds and cure the feathers (Note, February 28th). 

4. Make the Mayonnaise and bottle it (August 30th), and fillet the 
anchovies for supper to-morrow night. 

5. Make a mould of rice, and put it in a cool place (October 7th). 



166 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



Sunday, April 26th 



Breakfast. 


Dinner. 


Tea. 


Supper. 


Pilchards. 


Tomato Pur^e. 


Brown and White 


Italian Salad. 


Pickled Pork. 


Eoast Prairie Hens. 


Bread and Butter. 


Eed Currant Tart. 


Tea cakes. 


Fried Bacon. 


Teacakes. 


A Mould of Eice. 


Dry Toast. 


New Potatoes. 


Apple Jelly. 


Cheese. 


Brown and White 


Asparagus. 


Seed Cake. 




Bread and Butter. 


Oiled Butter. 


Lemon Cheese- 




Radishes and 


General Favourite 


cakes. 




"Watercress. 


Pudding. 






Milk Toast. 


Cheese. 







Beeakfast. — Pilchards (January 23rd); Pickled Pork, boiled 
yesterday ; Teacakes (February 14th) ; Radishes and Watercress 
(March 12th) ; Milk Toast (June 17th). 

Dinner. — Tomato Pur6e (]\Iarch 11th); Roast Prairie Hens 
(IVIarch 1st) ; Fried Bacon (Kidneys and Bacon, January 2nd). New 
Potatoes (April 12th) ; Asparagus (June 14th) ; Oiled Butter (June 
14th); General Favourite Pudding (May 17th); Cheese (June 8th). 

Tea. — Teacakes (February 14th) ; Seed Cake (August 14th) ; 
Lemon Cheesecakes (August 18th). 

Supper. — Italian Scdad. — An Italian salad may be made at any 
time of the year of any vegetable that is in season, or a suitable 
mixture of cooked vegetable may be taken for it. If lettuces and 
endive are used for it, let them be dried perfectly before being used. 
Shred the lettuce finely, and toss it lightly vnih. tarragon vinegar and 
salt. Place it on a dish that has been made as cool as possible, with 
a dozen filleted anchovies rolled in parsley and a tea-spoonful of 
capers. Just before serving toss the salad lightly with a quarter 
of a pint of mayonnaise (August 30th), garnish with boiled beet-root 
cut into strips and four hard-boiled eggs cut into quarters. Crown 
the whole with stoned olives, and serve. Red Currant Pie (August 
Vth) ; Rice Mould (October 7th). 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Turn the beef in the brine. 

2. If the legs of the birds are not wanted at dinner-time leave 
them untouched, and devil them for breakfast to-morrow (January 
14th). 

3. Asparagus is very good served by itself, when the meat is 
done with. If this plan is adopted, oiled butter (June 14th), or, 
better still, Dutch sauce (May 14th), should be served with it. 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



1C7 



April 27th. 



Breakfast. 


Luncheon. 


Dinner. 


Devilled Drum-sticks. 


Scalloped Oysters. 
R^cliaufl"^ of Rice Mould. 


Game Soup. 


Pickled Pork. 


Beef Steak k I'ltalienne 


Teacakes. 




Potatoes. 


Dry Toast. 




Brown Bread and Butter 


Marmalade. 




Pudding. 


iJrown and Wliite Bread 




Cheese. 


and Butter. 






Bread and Milk. 







Marketing. 

For the Day.— A tin of Preserved Oysters ; a slice of tender Steak two inches 

thick, and weighing about three pounds (January 10th) ; Potatoes ; Normandy 

Pippins. 
For To-morrow.— A small tin of Corned Beef ; a penny-worth of small Salad. 

Order a well-hung Shoulder of Mutton, to be sent to-morrow morning. 

Choose one that has not an undue proportion of fat. Muffins (January 29th). 

Breakfast. — Devilled Drum-sticks (January 14tli); Pickled Pork 
(Note 2, April 25tli) ; Teacakes (February 14tli); Bread and Milk 
(January 25tli). 

Luncheon. — Scalloped Oysters. — Open the tin, take out tlie 
oysters, put tliem on a dish in the oven, and let them get hot through. 
Strain the oyster liquor ; melt one ounce of butter in a small stew- 
pan, mix with it an ounce of flour, and work it to a smooth paste 
with the back of a wooden spoon. Add the oyster liquor and an 
equal measure of milk; stir the sauce till it boils and thickens. 
Season it with salt and cayenne, strain it over the oysters, and serve 
immediately. Send pepper and vinegar and a little brown bread 
and butter to table with this dish. Rechauffe of Rice Mould. — Beat 
up the rice with half a gill of milk, and add one beaten Qgg (or two 
eggs if a considerable portion of the rice were left), a spoonful of 
washed currants, and a little grated nutmeg. Press the rice into a 
mould, lay a buttered paper on the top, and steam it for an hour and 
a half (Treacle Pudding, March 28th). Serve with sweet sauce (July 
19th). 

r3iNNER. — Game Soup, made of the bones and trimmings of the 
prairie birds (February 16th); Beef Steak h. I'ltalienne (February 
2nd) ; Potatoes, Steamed (May 6th); Brown Bread and Butter Pud- 
din.g (July 20th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Turn and rub the beef in the brine. 

2. Put half a pound of Normandy pippins to soak in cold water. 

3. Carefully preserve any scraps of beef that may be left ; shep- 
herd's pie can be made of them for luncheon to-morrow (January 12th). 

4. Wash a breakfast-cupful of haricot beans, and put them to 
soak in cold water. Throw away any that float. 



168 



A YEAKS COOKERY. 



April 28th. 



Breakfast. 


Luncheon. 


Dinner. 


Savoury Eggs. 


Shepherd's Pie. 


Haricot Purde. 


Corned Beef. 


Normandy Pippins, with 


Roast Shoulder of Mutton, 


Muffins. 


Cold Milk. 


Browned Potatoes. 


Dry Toast. 




Seakale. 


Small Salad. 




Pancakes. 


Brown and White Bread 




Cheese. 


and Butter. 






Com Flour Milk. 







Marketing. 

For the Day.— Potatoes and Sea-kale. 

For To-morrow.— A tin of Mock-Turtle Soup ; Watercress; Anchovies ; Goose- 
berries. 



Breakfast. — Savoury Eggs (January 1st) ; Corned Beef, bought 
April 27th ; Muffins (January 30th) ; Corn Flour Milk (June 19th). 

Luncheon,— >S'Ae/?Aero?'« Pie (January 12th), Normandy Pippins 
(August 16th). 

Dinner. — Haricot Pur^e (March 9th) ; Pioast Shoulder of Mutton 
(March 4th and December 16th) ; Browned Potatoes (October 18th); 
Seakale (June 14th) ; Pancakes (February 24th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Turn and rub the beef in the brine. 

2. As soon as the mutton leaves the table put it upon a clean dish. 

3. Fillet half a dozen anchovies, and lay them between two plates 
ready for to-morrow morning. 



April 29th, 



Breakfast. 



Mock-Woodcock. 

Corned Beef. 

Watercress. 

Hot Toast. 

Dry Toast. 

Brown and White Bread 

and Butter, 
Gooseberry Fool. 



Luncheon. 

Hashed Mutton. 
Hasty Pudding, 



Dinner. 

Mock-Turtle Soup, 
Veal and Ham Pie. 
New Potatoes. 
Macaroni Pudding. 
Cheesa 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— Two pounds of Veal from the best end of the neck or the breast, 
and six ounces of mild Uam cut very thin ; if permitted, three or four Mush- 
rooms will be an improvement to the pie ; new Potatoes ; six ounces of 
Macaroni ; a pennyworth of Parsley ; three or four fresh Mackerel (April 4th). 

For To-morrow.— Three or fo\ir plump Sheep's Kidneys ; a pennyworth ot 
Radishes. 

Breakfast.— Mock- Woodcock (March 26th); Corned Beef, bought 
April 27th. Gooseberry Fool (June 24th) to bo taken with Bread 
and Butter. 



A YEAKS COOKERY. 



169 



Luncheon.— Hashed Mutton (May 18th) ; Hasty Pudding (]\Iarch 
30th). 

Dinner. — Mock-Turtle Soup (Llarch 15th). Veal and Ham Pie. 
— Cut the veal into slices the size of an oyster-shell and a quarter of 
an inch thick, and the ham into very thin rashers. Mix on a plate two 
tea-spoonfuls of salt, a tea-spoonful of white pepper, half a tea-spoon- 
ful of pounded mace, and half a tea-spoonful of grated lemon-rind. 
Fill the pie-dish with alternate layers of veal and ham, and sprinkle 
a portion of the seasoning over each layer of veal. Let ham form the 
uppermost layer. If it be allowed, put the- yolks of three or four 
. eggs, boiled hard, and four or five mushrooms between the " layers. 
Pour a very little cold vv^ater over the meat, line the edges of the dish 
with pastry, cover with a good crust, ornament according to fancy, 
make a hole for the steam to escape, and bake in a good oven. The 
pie will be done enough in about two hours and a half. As soon 
as the crust is risen and set, a greased paper must be laid over the 
pie, and it must be put in the coolest part of the oven. If mush- 
rooms and the yolks of eggs are allowed for this pie. Puff Paste 
(April 24th) will be the most suitable covering for it, or Rough Puff 
(May 29th) will answer excellently. For a plain family pie Short 
Crust (June 19th) will be sufficient. Boil the veal bones in slightly 
salted water for a couple of hours ; pour the liquor out, and free it 
from fat; make it boiHng hot, and just before the pie is to be served 
pour it in by means of a funnel. New Potatoes (April 12th) ; Maca- 
roni Pudding (March 27th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Turn and rub the beef in the brine. 

2. Pickle the mackerel bought to-day (August 28th). 

3. Put a cupful of hominy to soak all night in cold water (Feb- 
ruary 10th). 



Breakfast. 

Pickled Mackerel. 

Stewed Kidney. 

Radishes. 

Hot Buttered Toast. 

Dry Toast. 

Brown and Wliite Bread 

and Butter. 
Milk Toast. 



April 30th. 

Luncheon. 

Remains of VetJ and Ham 

Pie. 
Boiled Hominy. 



Dinner. 

Vermicelli Soup. 
Mutton Chops, with 

qtiante Sauce. 
Mashed Potatoes. 
Broccoli. 
Treacle Pudding. 
Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day. — About four pounds of the best end of a Loin of IMutton ; 
Potatoes ; Broccoli ; a jar of Liebig's Extract of Meat. Neck of mution 
cutlets are frequently objected to because they are so expensive; it will 
be found more profitable, therefore, to take them from the loin, and prepare 



170 A YEAKS COOKERY. 



- as recommended below. The butcher should be asked to cut off the top ol 
the loin, to be stewed separately. A qxiarter of a pound of firm sweet Suet. 
For To-morrow. — A slice of Ham from the middle of the leg ; Watercress. 

Breakfast. — Pickled Mackerel (August 28tli) ; Stewed Kidney 
(April 16th) ; Milk Toast (June I7tli). 

Luncheon, — Veal and Ham Pie served yesterday; Boiled Hominy 
(February llth). 

Dinner, — Vermicelli Sou]?. — The stock for this soup may be made 
by stewing the bones of the shoulder of mutton with vegetables, and 
adding a Httle extract of meat to the liquor (March 22nd), Mutton 
Cutlet Sy with Piquante Sauce. — It is often found that when mutton 
chops are sent to table the piece of meat in the middle is eaten • the 
rest is wasted. To prevent this, cut the meat out with as much fat 
as is likely to be used in one piece. Divide it into cutlets half an 
inch thick. The fillet or undercut of the loin should be taken out 
first of all, and may be formed into separate cutlets. Beat an egg. 
thoroughly, and mix with it a tea-spoonful of oil, a tea-spoonful of 
water, and a little pepper and salt. Have ready a tea-cupful of stale 
bread that has been rubbed through a wire sieve. Brush the cutlets 
over with the egg mixture, then cover them entirely with the bread- 
crumbs. Melt about an ounce of butter or clarified dripping in 
a frying-pan, lay in the cutlets, and pour two ounces of butter or 
fat over them. Cook them over a quick fire till done enough ; they 
will take about seven minutes. When brown on one side turn them 
to the other. Lift them out carefully, of course remembering not 
to stick the fork into the lean part, and free them from fat by 
pressing them between two folds of kitchen paper. Have ready 
half a pint of piquante sauce (May 5th). Put some mashed potatoes 
(May 12th) in a mound in the middle of a hot dish, arrange the cutlets 
round it, and with a table-spoon lay the sauce upon them. Serve 
very hot. If preferred, the chops can be cooked as above after 
being cut from the loin in the usual way, but there is less waste 
attending this method. Broccoli (Cauliflower, To Boil, April 25tli) 3 
Treacle Pudding (March 2Sth) ; Cheese (June 8th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Turn and rub the beef in the brine. 

2, If any hominy were left, preserve it, to be fried for luncheon 
to-morrow. 

3. Put a tea-cupful of green lentils to soak all night in cold water. 

4, Stew the top of the loin of mutton, to be served at luncheon 
to-morrow (Luncheon, May 1st). 



FRUITS IN SEASON SUITABLE FOR DESSERT IN APRIL. 

Apples (Golden Knobs and Rennets), Oranges, Bananas, Grapes, 
Nuts, Almonds and Raisins, French Plums, Figs, Dates, Crystallised 
Fruits, Foreign Preserved Fruits. 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 171 



DISHES FOR INVALIDS. 

PLAIN DRINKS. 

Toast Water. — This simple beverage is rarely well made. Take 
a slice of stale bread (crust is to be preferred, as the crumb will soon 
turn sour), toast it very slowly all through without burning it at all. 
Pour over it a quart of boiling water, and let it stand, covered, till 
cold. If liked, it may be flavoured with lemon-rind. 

Rice Water. — Valuable in diarrhoea. Wash a quarter of a pound 
of best Carolina rice, put it in a saucepan with a quart of water, 
and let it boil for ten minutes. Strain it off and add more water, 
and repeat until there is no more goodness in the rice. The liquor 
is ready to drink when cold. If liked, an inch of stick cinnamon 
or a piece of ginger may be boiled with the rice, or if the patient 
be not feverish a little cream may be added. A j)inch of salt is 
sometimes considered an improvement. 

Barley Wate)\ — Useful in colds, chest affections, hectic fever, 
and diseases of the bladder. There are two varieties — clear barley 
water and thick barley w^ater. For Clear Barley Water. — Wash a 
table-spoonful of pearl barley in two or three w\aters, put with it two 
lumps of sugar, the thin rind of one lemon, and the juice of half a 
one. Pour on it a quart of boiling water, and let it stand for tw^o 
hours or more. Strain and serve. If preferred, orange-rind and 
juice, currant jelly, or sliced liquorice can be used as a flavourer. 
Thick Barley Water. — Wash two ounces of barley, and put it in a 
ste^vpan with a quart of cold water. Boil gently for two hours. 
Strain it into a jug, put the thin rind of haK a lemon with it, and 
let it go cold. Take out the lemon-rind, sweeten to taste, and 
serve. 

Linseed Tea. — Used by patients suffering from diseases of the 
throat and chest, diarrhoea, dysentery, inflammation of the bowels, 
and inflammatory complaints. Take one ounce of linseed and half 
an ounce of sliced liquorice-root. Put these ingredients into a jug, 
pour over them a quart of boiling water, and place the vessel by 
the side of the fire for tw^o or three hours. Strain through muslin, 
and take a couple of spoonfuls occasionally. Sliced lemon and sugar- 
candy may be added to improve the flavour. 

Lemonade. — Pare off" the yellow rind of a fresh lemon, and be 
careful not to take any of the thick white pith, as that woidd make 
the lemonade bitter. Put this into a jug with the strained juice of 
two lemons and about an ounce of loaf sugar. Pour over all a pint 
and a half of boihng water, and let this stand till cold. Strain the 
liquor, and it is ready for use. 



172 



A YFAE'S COOKERY, 



May 1st. 



Breakfast. 




Luncheon. 


Dinner. 


Fried Ham, 




Top of tlie Loin of Mutton, 
Stewed, mtli Potatoes. 


stewed Eels. 


Pried Egps. 




Rolled Eibs of Beef. 


Watercress. 




Salad. 


Lentils. 


Hot Buttered Toast. 




Fried Hominy. 


Steamed Potatoes. 


Dry Toast. 






Lemon Pudding. 


Brown and White 


Bread 




Cheese. 


and Butter. 
Porridge. 









Marketing. 

For the Day.— Two pounds of Silver Eels (IVIarketing, January 21th) ; one or 
two ribs of Beef, boned and rolled. If asked to do so, the butcher will bone 
and roll the beef. Potatoes ; ingredients for a small Salad ; a penny- 
worth of fresh German Yeast ; six ounces of Suet. 

For To«morrow.— A tin of Sardines C January 12th) ; a tin of Potted Pheasant 
{see Remarks on Potted Grouse, January 7th) ; Preserved Oysters. 

Breakfast.— Fried Ham (March 5tli) ; Fried Eggs (March 5th) ; 
Ponddge (January 25th). 

Luncheon. — Loin of Mutton, Stewed. — Put the meat in a stewpan, 
fat downwards ; cover the pan closely, and fry gently till the fat is 
considerably melted. Take up the meat and pour off the fat, and 
put a gill of cold water with it. Let it stand till cold, then take the 
fat from the top, and put the gi'avy that is under it back into the 
stewpan with the meat, a small onion finely minced, and a little 
pepper and salt. Stew gently for half an hour. Let the meat go 
cold, and serve with salad and pickles. Salad (March 13th) ; Fried 
Hominy (February 12th). 

Dinner.— Stewed Eeels (January 24th) ; Rolled Eibs of Beef, 
Roasted (March 4th or March 8th) ; Lentils (March 2nd) ; Steamed 
Potatoes (May 6th) ; Lemon Pudding (August 12th) ; Cheese (June 
8th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Boil tlie beef that has been in the brine {see February 23rd). 

2. Boil the brine with an additional handful of salt, and scald the 
pan (January 13th). 

3. Pastry is to be made to-day (April 17th) : rhubarb pie (August 
7th) ; jam turnovers (September 25th) ; baked custard (January 
19th) ; also rice cake (August 2nd) ; and Vienna bread (August 
2Cth). 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



173 



May 2nd. 



Breakfast. 


Luncheon. 


Dinner. 


Sardines. 


Mackerel au Gratin. 


Milk Soup. 


Potted Pheasaut. 


Suet Dumpling, witli Jam. 


Cold Beef. 


Vienna Bread. 




Salad. 


Dry Toast. 
Marmalade. 




Baked Potatoes. 
Pickles. 


Brown and White Bread 




Cocoa-nut Pudding. 


and Butter. 




Cheese. 


Bread and Milk 







Marketing. 

For the Day.— Two moderate-sized Mackerel (April 4th) ; half a pound of fii-in 
Beef Kidney Suet ; two heads of Cabbage Lettuce ; a pennyworth of small 
Salad; a half -penny worth of boiled Beet-root; two-pennyworth of Watei'- 
cress (half of the last is for breakfast to-morrow) ; a good-sized Cocoa-nut 
or a tin of Desiccated Cocoa-nut ; Potatoes ; a pennyworth of Parsley. 

For To«morrow.— A pair of thick Soles (January 3rd); a Fore-quarter of 
Lamb ; Asparagus ; new Potatoes ; Mint, for sauce ; three-penny wortii of 
Cream, if permitted ; either a small tin of Mushrooms or two good-sized 
IMushrooms. 

For May 4th.— German Sausage. 



BiiEAKFAST. — Sardines (January 12t}i) ; Potted Pheasant {see Re- 
marks on Potted Grouse, January 7tli) ; Vienna Bread (August 26th) ; 
Bread and Milk (January 25th). 

Luncheon. — Mackerel au Gratin. — "Wash the fish in cold water 
and wipe them in a cloth. Cut off the heads and tails and open 
them down the back. Lay the mackerel on a board and draw out the 
bones. Be careful also to remove the dark substance which lies close 
to the backbone near the head, as this often imparts a bitter taste to 
the fish. Wash and pick a bunch of parsley ; chop it finely, fasten it 
in the corner of a cloth, dip it in cold water, and wring it dry. This 
second washing is intended to remove its acrid taste. Chop small a 
piece of onion the size of a large bean, mix it with the parsley, 
and add a dessert-spoonful of finely-grated bread-crumbs, a tea- 
spoonful of mixed herbs — lemon, thyme, and marjoram — a little 
pepper and salt, and a few drops of lemon-juice. Sprinkle the 
mixture upon the inner part of one mackerel, and lay the other 
mackerel upon it. Put the fish thus placed one on the top of the 
other in a greased tin ; lay small pieces of dripping here and there 
upon them, cover with a dish or greased paper, and bake in a 
moderate oven for half an hoin\ Baste occasionally with the 
dripping. Lift the fish carefully upon a hot dish and serve. Fresh 
herrings are very good dressed in this way. Suet Dumpling (May 
13tli). 

Dinner. — Milk Soup (January 3rd) ; Cold Beef left from yester- 
day ; Salad (March 13th) ; Baked Potatoes (May 4th) ; Cocoa-nut 
Pudding (August 8th) ; Cheese (June StK^ 



174 



A TEAR'S COOKERY. 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Hecluce the liquor in which the beef was boiled and glaze the 
beef (March 21st). 

2. Make rissoles for breakfast to-morrow of the cold beef left 
yesterday (January 6th). 

3. Chop the mint and put sugar upon it for mint sauce (March 
25th). 



Sunday, May 3rd. 



Breakfast. 


Dinner. 


Tea. 


Supper. 


Rissoles. 


Sole au Gratin. 


Vienna Bread. 


Pressed Beef. 


Potted Plieasant. 


Fore - quarter of 


Brown and White 


Potato Salad. 


Vienna Bread. 


Lamb. 


Bread and Butter. 


Rhubarb Tart. 


Dry Toast. 


Mint Sauce. 


Eice Cake. 


Cheese. 


Brown and White 


New Potatoes. 


Damson Jam. 




Bread and Butter. 


Asparagus. 






Watercress. 


Hayrick Puddings. 






Com Flour Milk. 


Cheese. 







Breakfast. — Eissoles (January 6th) ; Potted Pheasant (see Re- 
marks on Potted Grouse, January 7th) ; Vienna Bread (August 26th) ; 
Corn Flour Milk (June 19th). 

Dinner. — Sole au Gratin. — For a pair of soles mix on a plate a 
bunch of parsley washed in two waters (Mackerel au Gratin, May 
2nd), half a shallot, and either eight small mushrooms or two large 
ones, all chopped small. Ptub a slice of stale bread through a wire 
sieve, put the crumbs on a tin, and brown them in the oven. Wash 
the soles and dry them in a cloth. Cut off the outside fins with a 
sharp knife, nick through the skin across the head and tail, push 
the little finger up to loosen the skin, and draw it off on both 
sides. Grease a tin large enough to hold the fish side by side, 
sprinkle half the chopped mushroom on it, and add a little pepper and 
salt and a few drops of lemon-juice. Nick the soles in two or three 
places, and lay them, the nicked side uppermost, on the tin. Sprinkle 
the rest of the mixture upon them, with a little pepper and salt and 
a tea-spoonful of lemon-juice, and the browned bread-crumbs. Lay 
little pieces of butter here and there on the top, and pour over last 
of all a gill of strong stock that has been boiled till it is so much 
reduced that it will jelly when cold. Bake in a brisk oven for ten 
minutes or thereabout. When a steel knife will go easily through 
the thickest part of the fish they are done enough. Lift them carefully 
upon a clean hot dish, pour the sauce round, and serve. Fore-quarter 
of Lamb, Roasted (March 4th and April 12th) ; JNIint Sauce (March 
25th); New Potatoes (April 12th); Asparagus (Jane 14th); Hay- 
rick Puddings (March 19th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 

Tea. — Vienna Bread (August 26th) ; Rice Cake (August 2nd). 

Supper.— Beef boiled May 1st; Potato Salad (April 12th); Rhubarb 
Tart (August 7th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



175 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. If any new potatoes are left, excellent salad can be made by 
slicing them and tossing them up with ihe usual dressing. 

2. If any asparagus is left, make it into asparagus toast for 
breakfast to-morrow. 

3. As soon as the lamb comes from t&ble lay it upon a clean disL 



May 4th 



Breakfast. 


Luncheon. 


Dinner. 


Gennan Sausage. 


Press>?d Beef. 


Julienne, quickly made. 


Asparagus, with Eggs. 


Baked Potatoes. 


Cold Lamb. 


Vienna Bread. 


Baked Custard, 


Mint Sauce. 


Dry Toast. 




New Potatoes. 


iil•o^vn and Wiiite Bread 




Golden Pudding. 


and Butter. 




Clieese. 


Marmalade. 






MUk Toast 







lilarketing. 

For the Day.— One pound Kidnoy Suet for Puddings to-day and to-morrow ; 
Old Potatoes and New Potatoes. If there is no Mint Sauce left, a penny- 
worth of Mint. 

For To-morrow.— A quarter of a pound of streaky Bacon, in rashers ; Radishes, 

Breakfast. — German Sausage (June 6th). AsjmraguSj with Eggs. 
— Take the asparagus that is left, and cut all the green part into 
pieces the size of peas. Supposing there are a dozen heads of aspa- 
ragus, melt an ounce of butter in a stewpan, put with it a table- 
spoonful of cream or milk, a table-spoonful of gravy, a little pepper 
and salt, and three well-beaten eggs. Throw in the asparagus, stir 
the eggs cpickly over the fire for half a minute till they are set, pour 
the mixture upon a hot dish, garnish with toasted sippets, and serve 
very hot. Vienna Bread (August 26th) ; Milk Toast (June 17th). 

Luncheon. — Pressed Beef boiled May 1st. Baked Potatoes. — 
Choose large potatoes, and as much of one size as possible. Wash 
them in lukewarm water, and scrub them till thoroughly clean. Dry 
them with a cloth, and put them in a moderately heated oven. 
Turn them about occasionally, and bake them until they are done 
enough, that is, until a skewer will pierce them easily. Press each one 
till it bursts slightly, as that "will keep the potatoes from becoming 
heavy, and serve very hot on a dish covered with a napkin. They will 
take from one and a half to two and a half hours, according to their 
size and the heat of the oven. Baked Custard Tart (January 19th). 

Dinner. — Julienne, quickly made (February 15th) ; Lamb served 
yesterday ; Mint Sauce (March 25th) ; New Potatoes (April 12th). 
Golden Pudding. — Mix thoroughly together six ounces of finely-shred 
beef suet, a pinch of salt, half a pound of fine bread-crumbs, half a 
pound of marmalade. Add half a tea-spoonful of baking powder, 



176 



A YEAR'S COOKERY 



two eggs, and as much milk as is needed to make a stiff paste. 
Put the mixture into a greased mould, lay a buttered paper on the 
top, and steam for four hours (March 28th). Let the pudding stand a 
minute or two, turn it upon a hot dish, and serve with sweet sauce. 
A httle sherry is a very agreeable accompaniment. Cheese (June 8th). 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Lamb is so very delicious served cold that it seems a shame to 
warm it up in any way. Those, however, who object to cold meat 
may prefer (supposing there is any meat still left upon it) to have 
the bladebone devilled, grilled, and sei-ved with piquante sauce. 
For this it must be prepared over-night. Trim away the skin and 
fat, and score the meat deeply at half-inch distances. Supposing 
there is about a pound and a haK of meat on the bone, make a 
hot mixture by working together with the point of a knife a slice 
of butter, two tea-spoonfuls of mixed mustard, a tea-spoonful cf salt, 
and a salt-spoonful of cayenne. Eub this mixture into the scores. 
To-morrow all that will bf necessary will be to lay the meat on a grid- 
iron at a good height over a clear fire, and turn it frequently till it is 
hot through and a light brown colour. It will take about a quarter 
of an hour. 



May 5th 



Breakfast. 


Luncheon. 


Dinner. 


Toasted Bacon. 

Pressed Beef. 

Eadislies. 

Hot Buttered Toast. 

Dry Toast. 

Browu and White Bread 

and Butter. 
Gooseberry Fool. 


stewed Cheese. 
Jam Tumoverg. 


Milk Soup. 

Grilled Shoulder of Lamb. 

Piquante Sauce. 

Veal Rolls. 

Spinnch. 

New Potatoes. 

Guests' Pudding. 

Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day. - One poimd and a half of lean Veal, from the fillet or loin. If there 
is no lamb left, more veal than this will be needed (February 25th). Spinach ; 
New Potatoes ; Broccoli ; a quarter of a pound of Ratafias. 

For To-morrow.— Half a pound of Forced Mushrooms. 

Beeakfast.— Toasted Bacon (January 19th); Beef boiled May 1st; 
Gooseberry Fool (June 24th). 

Jj-u^c-REO^.— St eived Cheese. — Cut a quarter of a pound of cheese 
into thin sKces, and put it into a stewpan with as much ale as will 
barely cover it. Keep stirring it till it melts, then let it cool a minute, 
and stir in a spoonful of mustard and the yolk of one egg well beaten. 
Stir over the fire again for half a minute, pour the preparation upon 
a dish, stick three-cornered sippets of toast in the middle, and aU 
round, and serve very hot. Jam Turnovers (September 25th). 

Dinner.— Milk Soup (January 3rd) ; Grilled Shoulder of Lamb, 



jk YEARS COOKERY. 



177 



(Note, ^lay 4tli). Piqucmte Sauce. — Make a quarter of a pint of good 
melted butter. Stir in half a tea-spoonful of ancliovy sauce, and add 
a table-spoonful of vinegar, a dessert-spoonful of very finely chopped 
pickled gherkins, and the same of chopped capers, with a shallot finely 
chopped, if liked. Boil together, skim, and serve. Veal Rolls. — Cut 
the veal into thin slices, three or four inches long and two inches broad. 
Spread a little forcemeat (June 27th) over, roll each one neatly, and 
fasten it securely with twine. Melt a slice of butter in a stewpan, put 
in the rolls, and turn them about till they are browned all over. Barely 
cover them with stock or water, and simmer them very gently for an 
hour and a half. Thicken the gravy with bread-crumbs, arrange the 
rolls in a dish, strain the gravy over, and place round small tufts of 
broccoli, boiled and drained well. If convenient, sausage meat might 
be spread oyer the veal instead of forcemeat, and chopped parsley, 
shallot, allspice, pepper, and salt sprinkled over to flavour it. Spinach 
(May 10th) ; New Potatoes (April 12th) ; Guests' Pudding (April 
14th). Cheese (June 8th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Broken remnants of cheese, if not too diy, can be stewed instead 



of fresh cheese. 

2. Preserve the bacon-rind, 
soups. 



It will be valuable for flavouring 



Breakfast. 

Mushroom Toast. 

Devilled Eggs. 

Watercress. 

Dry Toast. 

Brown and Wliite Bread 

and Butter. 
Milk Poi-ridge. 



May 6th. 

Luncheon. 

Croquettes (made of rem- 
nants of beef). 
Stewed Ehubarb. 



Dinner. 

Fried Plaice. 

Neck of Mutton, with 

Maitre d' H6tel Sauce, 
steamed Potatoes. 
Tumip-tops. 
Macaroni Pudding. 
Cbeese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— A thick Plaice (April 21st); a Neck of Mutton, not too fat 
(February 5th) ; Potatoes; Turnip-tops ; half a bundle of Rhubarb; two 
pennyworth of Parsley. 

For To-morrow.— Bloaters (Note 2, January 2nd). Rolls (September 3rd). 

BuEAKFAST.— Mushroom Toast (March 20th) ; Devilled Eggs 
(February 27th) ; Milk Porridge (June 13th). 

Luncheon. — Croquettes {see Rissoles, January 6th) ; Stewed 
Rhubarb (May 19th). 

Dinner.— Fried Plaice (April 21st); Neck of Mutton, with 
Parsley Sauce (February 23rd). Parsley Sauce, called also Matire 
iV Hotel Sauce. — Wash a sprig or two of parsley, pick the leaves from 
tlie stalk, and chop them very finely. Put the parsley in the corner 
of a cloth, dip it in water, and wring it dry. This second washing 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



takes away the acrid taste. Melt one' ounce of butter in a small 
saucepan, stir in half an ounce of flour, and beat the mixture over 
the fire with the back of a wooden spoon till it is quite a smooth 
paste. Stir in gradually half a pint of cold water, and keep stirring 
till the sauce boils. Add a pinch of salt, and just before serving the 
sauce stir in the chopped parsley. Steamed Potatoes. — Old potatoes 
only can be steamed. Wash and scrub the potatoes, and, if liked, peel 
them. It is best, however, to steam them in their jackets, and peel 
them quickly when done enough. Fill the saucepan belonging to the 
steamer with water and put it on the fire. V/hen the water boils put 
the potatoes in the steamer, sprinkle a little salt over them, put the 
lid down closely, and place the steamer over the hot water. In about 
half an hour tiy the potatoes. If a skewer can be easily pierced 
through them they are done enough. If they have been peeled 
before being steamed, shake the steamer to make the potatoes 
floury. If they have not been peeled, skin them quickly and 
serve. Turnip-tops {see Cabbage, June 4th); Macaroni Pudding 
(March 27th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Keep the bloaters apart from all other food. 

2. Preserve the liquor in which the mutton was boiled ; it can be 
used for the soup to-morrow. 



Breakfast. 

Bloaters. 

Buttered Eggs. 

Rolls. 

Dry Toast. 

Honey. 

Brown and White Bread 

and Butter. 
Porridge. 



May 7th, 

Luncheon 

Spicy Pie. 
Seme Una Motild. 



Dinner. 

Mullagatawny Soup. 
Stewed Beef. 
Mashed Potatoes. 
Spring Cabbage. 
Lfeche Crfeme. - 
Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— Three pounds of tender Steak (Marketing, January 1st). It 
shoxild be cut evenly, and about an inch and a half thick. Half a pound of 
Ratafias; Potatoes; Cabbage. 

For To-morrow.— Dried Haddock ; a pennyworth of Mustard and Cress ; one 
four-pound tin of Australian Meat. 

Breakfast. — Bloaters (January 3rd) ; Buttered Eggs (January 
16th) ; Rolls (September 3rd) ; Porridge (January 25th). 

Luncheon. — S2ncy Pie. — Make a little plain pastry with three- 
quartei-s of a pound of flour, a pinch of salt, a quarter of a pound of 
clarified dripping, and half a tea-spoonful of baking-powder (Short 
Crust (June 19th). Cut the meat from the cold mutton, and keep the 
fat and lean separate. Throw the bones into the mutton liquor and 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



179 



stew them well to improve the stock. Mince the lean meat very finely, 
measure it ; mix thoroughly with it its bulk in fat, chopped finely, stoned 
and dried currants, chopped raisins, chopped apples, and moist sugar. 
Season with salt and a very little grated nutmeg. Put the mixture 
into a pie-dish, cover with pastry in the usual way, a.nd bake in a well- 
heated oven. Serve either hot or cold. Semolina Mould (July 23rd). 
Dinner. — MuUagatawny Soup (January 16th); Stewed Steak 
(January 31st) ; Mashed Potatoes (May 12th) ; Spring Cabbage (June 
4th.) Leche Creme.—Vwt a pint and a quarter of milk into a stewpan 
with two table-spoonfuls of powdered sugar, a pinch of salt, and four 
drops of ratafia flavouring. Make it hot over the fire, but do not let 
it boil. Mix two table-spoonfuls of flour to a smooth paste with a 
quarter of a pint of milk, and add the well-beaten yolks of three and 
the white of one Qgg. Stir a little of the warm milk with the eggs ; 
add the rest ; gradually return the whole to the saucepan, and stir 
till the mixture begins to thicken. Pour it gently upon six ounces 
of ratafias which have been laid at the bottom of a shallow dish ; 
arrange the remaining two ounces of ratafias on the toj^, and serve 
when cold. If liked, the yolks of two, instead of three, eggs can be 
used. Cheese (June 8th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. There are sure to be a few scraps of meat left from the stew at 
dinner ; make these into potted beef for breakfast (January 23rd). 

2. Put a breakfast-cupful of white haricot beans to soak all night 
in cold water. 

3. If convenient, make the custard blancmange for dinner 
to-morrow (August 4th). 

4. The white of Qgg left from the L^che Creme can be whisked to 
a firm froth and put into the sultana cake mixture to-morrow. 



May 8th. 



Breakfast. 


Luncheon. 


Dinner. 


Dried Haddock. 


Australian Meat, cold, with 


Fried Whitiu?. 


Potted Beef. 


Pickles. 


Stewed Ox-tails. 


Mustard and Cress. 


Baked Potatoes. 


Haricot Beans. 


Hot Toast. 


Plain Eice Pudding. 


Boiled Potatoes. 


Dry Toast. 




Custard Blancmange. 


Brown and White Bread 




Lemon S3 rup. 


and Butter. 




Cheese. 


Marmalade. 






Bread and Milk 







Marketing. 

For the Day.— Fresh Whiting, one for each person (January 3rd and 17th) ; two 
fine Ox-tails. The butcher should be asked to send these home ready jointed. 
Ox-tails may usually be bought at a cheaper rate in summer than in winter, 
because they will not keep so well. Three-quarters ^f a pound of Rump or 
Buttock Steak ; four plump young Pigeons (January 24th) ; a Leg of Mutton ; 
Potatoes. 



180 A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



Breakfast. — Dried Haddock (January 27tli) ; Potted Beef 
(January 23rd) ; Bread and Milk (January 25tli). 

LuNCHEOisr. — Australian ]\Ieat, cold (Februaiy 4tli) ; Baked Pota- 
toes (May 4tli) ; Plain Rice Pudding (February 24tli). 

Dinner. — Fried Whiting (January 17th). Stewed Ox-tails. — Wash 
the tails, divide them into joints, throw them into boiling water, and 
boil them for ten minutes. Drain them, and trim them neatly to 
make them look smooth and round. Put them into a stewpan with a 
carrot, an onion stuck with six cloves, a bunch of parsley, half a blade 
of mace, a few celery seeds tied in muslin, a dozen peppercorns, a 
spoonful of salt, and two cparts of stock or water. Let the liquor 
l3oil, skim it carefully, cover it closely, draw it to the side of the fire, 
and simmer gently for two hours, or till the pieces of tail are tender. 
Pour off the gravy, and put it into a basin surrounded with cold water, 
and remove the fat, which will rise to the surface. Take two good- 
sized carrots and two turnips, and cut them into neat shapes, balls or 
dice ; prepare also eight moderate-sized onions. Strain the stock, put 
it with the vegetables into a stewpan, season it with pepper and salt, and 
boil all together till the vegetables are done enough. Put the pieces of 
tail into a clean stewpan, and place the turned and boiled vegetables 
with them. Skim the sauce, and if it is not sufficiently rich and thick 
boil it down quickly to reduce it, or, if preferred, thicken it with 
brown thickening. When it is quite ready, pour it over the ox-tail, 
simmer all together for ten minutes, and serve neatly arranged in a 
hot dish. In summer time, when ox-tails may frequently be had at a 
low rate, they are very good served with green peas (July 12th). 
For this they should be cooked as described above, then laid in a 
circle on a dish, the peas being placed in the centre. The gravy 
should then be boiled till very thick and poured round the base. For 
variety's sake, dressed spinach, French beans, or mixed vegetables may 
be substituted for the peas, or mushrooms may be boiled in the gravy. 
Haricot Beans (June 20th) ; Boiled Potatoes (April 12th) ; Custard 
Blancmange (August 4th) ; Lemon Syrup (March 19tli) ; Cheese 
(June 8th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Carefully preserve any gravy that may be left from the ox-tail ; 
it will be a valuable addition to the savoury hash to-morrow. If any 
pieces of ox-tail were left they may be breaded, and served at break- 
fast to-morrow. 

2. Make the pickle for the sour mutton (March 19th), and put the 
leg of mutton into it. 

3. Pastry is to be made to day (April 17th) ; minced meat 
rolls, made of a portion of the Australian meat {see Sausage Rolls, 
(November 6tli) ; pigeon pie, for dinner to-morrow (May 15th) ; 
plum pie of bottled fruit (August 7th); also milk rolls (August 26th) ; 
and sultana cake (August 2nd). 



A YEAKS COOKERY. 



181 



May 9th. 



Breakfast. 


Luncheon. 


Dinner. 


Oc-tail, Grilled, if any were 


Savoury Hash of Austra- 


Potato Piu-ee. 


left ; if not, 


lian Meat. 


Pigeon Pie. 


Savoury Eggs. 


Kice and Cheese. 


Mashed Potatoes. 


Minced Meat Eolls. 




Greens. 


Dry Toast. 




Wyvem Puddings, 


Milk EoUs. 




Cheese. 


Marmalade. 






Brown and White Bread 






and Butter. 






Porridge. 







Marketing. 

For the Day.— Potatoes ; Greens ; a pennyworth of Parsley. 

For To-morrow.— Half a pound of Bacon, in rashers ; a pair of thick Solos 
(January 3rd) ; a fillet of Yeal, weighing about eight pounds (February 25th 
and March lith). See that the bone is sent with the veal, A good-sized tin 
of Sardines (January 12th); a pound of Swiss Ptoll; New Potatoes (two 
pounds more than are likely to be used at dinner) ; Spinach ; a tin of Collared 
Tongue ; Anchovies, Capers, and Gherkins will be wanted ; Watercress. 

Breakfast. — Savoury Eggs (January 1st) ; Minced Meat Eolls, 
Sausage Eolls (November 6tli) ; Milk Eolls (August 26tli) ; Porridge 
(January 25th). 

Luncheon.— Savoury Hash of Australian Meat (February 5th) ; 
Eice and Cheese (February 18th). 

Dinner.— Potato Pur6e (January 26th) ; Pigeon Pie (May 15th) ; 
Mashed Potatoes (May 12th); Greens {see Cabbage, June 4th). Wyvern 
Puddiiigs. — Make some batter two or three hours before dinner-time 
{see Toad in the Hole, January 15th). Grease some patty-pans, pour 
a little of the batter into each, and bake in a quick oven. Turn the 
puddings out of the tins, put a little jam upon each one, and serve. 
When it is decided to have Yorkshire pudding as an accompaniment 
to roast meat, the batter may be baked in small tins lO^e this instead 
of being cooked in the dri^jping-tin under the meat, and the puddings 
can then be neatly arranged round the joint. Cheese (June 8th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Put a cupful of hominy to soak all night in cold water. 

2. In serving the sardines at breakfast to-morroAv, remember to 
keep back four or six for the Eussian salad at night. 

3. If the mayonnaise made a fortnight ago were used entirely, 
make a little more and bottle it (August 30th). 

4. If any pigeon pie were left, it will be excellent served at break- 
fast to-morrow instead of the collared tongue. 

5. ]\Iake a ground rice mould (August 7th) for supper to-morrow 
evening. 

6. Turn and rub the mutton in the pickle. 

7. Stew the veal bone for white stock, to be used on May 11th. 



182 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



Sunday, May lOth. 



Breakfast. 


Dinner. 


Tea. 


Supper. 


Sardines. 


Soles, Filleted and 


Brown and White 


Russian Salad* 


Collared Tongue. 


EoUed, with Bro-mi 


Bread and Butter. 


Plum Pie. 


Milk Uolls. 


Butter. 


Strawberry Jam. 


Ground Eice 


Dry Toast. 


Eoast Fillet of 


Sultana Cake. 


Mould. 


"Watercress. 


Veal. 




Cheese. 


Erown and White 


Toasted Bacon. 






Bread and Butter. 


New Potatoes. 






nominy. 


Spinach. 

Raspberry Sand- 
wich Pudding. 
Cheese. 







Breakfast. — Sardines (January 12tli); Collared Tongue (January 
2nd); Milk Kolls (August 26th); Hominy (February 11th). 

Dinner. — Soles, Filleted and Rolled, with Brown Butter Sauce 
(March 1st and February 12th); Fillet of Veal (June 28th) ; Toasted 
Bacon (January 19th) ; New^ Potatoes (April 12th). Spinach.— 
Spinach sinks so much in boiling that it will require a good bowlful 
to make a dish. It needs to be washed in several waters, because, 
as it grows so near the ground, there is usually a good deal of grit in 
it. When it is being washed it should be lifted out of the water with 
the hands : by this means the grit sinks to the bottom of the pan. 
When thoroughly cleansed double each leaf together, and tear away 
the stalk and its continuation quite down the back of the leaf. Put 
the spinach with the water that clings to it into a large iron pan. 
Do not put on the lid, but keep stirring the spinach to prevent its 
burning. In a very short time it will have yielded sufficient water to 
do away Avdth any fear of this. Let it boil quickly till tender ; it will 
take from ten to fifteen minutes. Pour it into a colander and press 
the water from it with a vegetable presser or the back of a plate. 
Put it on a board and chop it as finely as possible, or, if it is wanted 
very good, rub it through a mre sieve. Melt an ounce of butter in a 
stewpan, add a little pepper and salt, a table-spoonful of cream, and 
the spinach, and keep stirring till thoroughly mixed and quite hot. 
Press the vegetable into a mould, turn upon a hot dish, and serve. 
If Hked, poached eggs can be laid upon it and fried sippets served 
round it. Sometimes a tea-spoonful of flour is mixed smoothly mth 
the butter before the cream is stirred in. Raspberry Sandwich 
Pudding (November 29th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 

Tea. — Sultana Cake (August 2nd). 

Supper. — Russian Salad (April 5th); Plum Pie (August 7th); 
Ground Rice Mould (August 7th). 



Things that must not be Forgotten, 

1. Preserve any hominy that may be left. 

2. Turn and rub the mutton in the pickle. 



A YEARS COOKERY. 



183 



Breakfast. 

Boiled Eggs. 

Collared Tongue. 

Hot Buttered Toast. 

Dry Toast. 

Honey. 

Brown and WMte Bread 

and Butter. 
Fried Hominy. 



May nth, 

Luncheon. 

Eice and Cheese. 
Hasty Pudding. 



Dinner. 

Victoria Soup. 
Minced Veal. 
Fried Bacon. 
New Potatoes. 
Cottage Plum Pudding. 
Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— Six ounces of Bacon in rashers (January 3rd) ; Potatoes ; six 

ounces of Suet. 
For To-morrow.— A quarter of a po\uid of German Sausage j one Cow's Heel ; 

Fillet of Beef (January 2nd). 

Bkeakfast. — Boiled Eggs (January 5th) ; Collared Tongue 
(January 2nd) ; Fried Hominy (February 12tli). 

Luncheon. — Rice and Cheese (February 18tli) ; Hasty Pudding 
(March 30th). 

Dinner. — Victoria Soup (February 9th). Minced Veal. — Take the 
remains of the fillet of veal, trim away the skin and nearly all the 
fat ; cut the meat into slices, then into strips, and then into very 
small squares. Do not, hoAvever, chop the meat. Mix with it a very 
small pinch of pounded mace and a grate or two of lemon-rind, and 
dredge flour thickly over it. Put the trimmings, skin, and bone into 
a saucepan with — supposing there is a pound and a half of meat — a 
pint and a half of the stock made from the veal bone, an inch of 
lemon-rind, two sprigs of parsley, and one of thyme. Cover closely, 
and stew gently for about an hour, till the gravy is strong and good. 
Let it go cold and free it from fat. Melt an ounce of butter in a 
stewpan, beat an ounce of flour smoothly with it, and add a quarter 
of a pint of the stock and the same of milk. Stir the sauce till it 
boils. Season it with salt and very slightly with pepper ; a spoonful 
or two of cream may be added, and is a great improvement. Put in 
the mince and make it hot through, but on no account let it boiL 
Turn it upon a hot dish and surround it with toasted sippets. 
Send strips of bacon to table with it. If preferred, minced veal 
may be coloured brown with a little brown thickening. Fried 
Bacon (January 2nd, Bacon fried with Kidneys) ; New Potatoes 
(April 12th) ; Cottage Plum Pudding (June 6th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 



Tljings that mnst not be Forgotten. 

1. Turn the mutton in the pickle. 

2. Put a cupful of haricot beans to soak all night in cold water. 

3. Brush the beef lightly over with vinegar, sprinkle pepper and 
salt over it, and hang it in a cool airy place (January 2nd). 



184 



A TEAM'S COOKERY. 



May 12th. 



Breakfast. 


Luncheon. 


Dinner. 


German Sausage. 


Cow's Heel, witli Parsley 


Haricot Purde. 


Eggs, with Browu Butter. 


Sauce. 


Fillet of Beef. 


Hot Buttered Toast. 


Elegant Economist's Pud- 


Broccoli. 


Dry Toast. 


ding. 


Mashed Potatoes. 


Marmalade. 




Brown Bread Pudding 


Brown and Wliite Bread 




Cheese. 


and Butter. 






Porridge. 







Marketing. 

For the Day.— Broccoli ; Potatoes. 

For To-morrow.— A Melton Mowbray Pork Pie ; Forced Mushrooms ; Water« 
cress ; a two-pound tin of Tomatoes ; half a pound of good Kidney Suet. 

Breakfast. — German Sausage (June 6th); Eggs, with Brown 
Butter (January 6th) ; Porridge (January 25th). 

Luncheon. — Cow's Heel, with Parsley Sauce (February 20th). 
Elegant Economist's Pudding. — Cut the remains of the cottage 
plum pudding into neat slices and lay them in a buttered pie-dish, 
pressing them down to make them adhere. Make as much custard 
as mil fill the dish; let it go cold. Pour it upon the pudding; 
cover the top with thin slices of pudding, and bake in a gentle 
ovep.. ^Vhen the custard is set the pudding is done enough. It will 
take from half an hour to an hour, according to its size. The custard 
may be plain or rich, according to taste (August 10th). 

Dinner. — Haricot Pur^e (March 9th) ; Fillet of Beef, Boasted 
(February 11th) ; Broccoli (Cauliflower, April 25th). Mashed Potatoes. 
— Boil or steam two pounds of potatoes, and when done enough rub 
them quickly through a wire sieve. Melt an ounce of butter in a 
stew[Dan, pour over it a quarter of a pint of milk, and add pepper 
and salt to taste. When the milk boils stir in the sifted potatoes, 
beat all briskly together over the fire for a minute or two, turn into a 
hot tureen, and serve. K liked, the potatoes can be pressed into a 
buttered mould, turned out in a shape, and browned before the fire or 
in a brisk oven. Late in the season, when old potatoes are full of 
eyes, to mash potatoes is to adopt one of the best methods of serving 
them {see also Potato Croquettes, November 4th). Brown Bread 
Pudding (July 20th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Turn the mutton in the pickle. 

2. Preserve the liquor in which the cow's heel was boiled. 
make very good stock. 



It will 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



185 



May 13th. 



Breakfast. 




Luncheon. 


Dinner. 


Pork Pie. 




Cold Beef. 


Tomato Pur^e. 


Muslirooms ou Toast. 




Salad. 


Leg of Lamb. 


V/atercress. 




Suet Pudding, with Jam, 


Mint Sauce. 


Hot Buttered Toast. 




Treacle, or Gravy. 


New Potatoes. 


Dry Toast. 






Spinach. 

Wyvem Puddings. 


Brown and White 


Bread 




and Butter. 






Cheese.? 


Com Flour Milk. 









Marketing. 

For the Day.— Two heads of Lettuce ; a half-pennyworth of boiled Beetroot ; a 
pennyworth of small Salad ; a half-pennyworth of Spring Onions ; a Leg ol 
Lamb ; New Potatoes ; Spinach ; a pennyworth of Parsley ; Mint for Sauce. 

For To-morrow.— A small tin of Corned Beef ; half a pint of Shrimps ; Radishes. 



Bkeakfast. — Pork Pie bought yesterday ; Muslirooms on Toast 
(March 20th) ; Corn Flour Milk (June 19th). 

Luncheon. — Salad (March 13th). Suet Puddincj. — Trim away all 
skin and fibre, and chop the suet as finely as possible. Put it mto a 
basin, and with haK a pound of suet mix thoroughly one pound of 
flour, a tea-spoonful of baking powder, and a pinch of salt. Add cold 
water to make a stiff paste. Wring a pudding-cloth out of boiling 
water, flour it well, and put the paste into it. Tie it securely with 
string, remembering to leave room for the pudding to swell, and 
plunge it into plenty of fast-boiling water. Boil for two hours, or 
longer if convenient. This pudding wdll be lighter if made ^dth 
equal portions of stale bread-crumbs and flour rather than with flour 
alone. For the sake of variety, a little grated lemon-rind and the 
juice of a lemon or a little grated ginger may be put with it to 
flavour it. 

Dinner. — Tomato Pur^e (March 11th); Leg of Lamb (March 4th); 
Mint Sauce (March 25th) ; New Potatoes (April 12th) ; Spinach 
(May 10th) ; Wyvern Puddings (May 9th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 



Things that must not be Forgotten, 

1. Turn and rub the mutton in the pickle. 

2. It is a very great improvement to saut^ new potatoes, and 
indeed almost all vegetables, before serving them. To do this, boil 
them in the usual way, melt a slice of butter in a saucepan, and toss 
the potatoes in it. 

3. Pot the shrimps for breakfast to-morrow (November 12th). 



186 



A YEAW& COOKERY, 



May 14th. 



Breakfast. 


Luncheon, 


Dinner, 


Potted Shrimps. 


Minced Lamb. 


Fried Plaice. 


Corned Beef. 


Plain Rice Puddiag. 


Dutch Sauce. 


Eadishes. 




BroUed Steak, with Maitw 


Hot Buttered Toast. 




d'Hotel Butter. 


Dry Toast 




Potato Snow. 


Brown and White Bread 




Semolina Pudding. 


and Butter. 




Cheese. 


Bread and Milk. 







Marketing. 
For the Day.— A thick Plaice (April 21st) ; a slice of Rump Steak, weighing from 

three to three pounds and a half {see Marketing, January 22nd) ; Potatoes, 
For To-morrow.— Four plump young Pigeons ; a quart of Gooseberries. 

Breakfast. — Corned Beef bouglit yesterday; Shrimps (November 
12tli) ; Bread and Milk (January 25th). 

Luncheon — Minced Lamh. — Cut the meat off the bone and weigh 
it. Break up the bone, and stew it with an onion and a piece of 
carrot till a strong gi'avy is obtained. Supposing there is a pound of 
meat, mix with it a tea-spoonful of salt, half a tea-spoonful of white 
pepper, a shallot finely minced, a tea-spoonful of chopped parsley, 
very little grated nutmeg, and a table-spoonful of flour. Pour three- 
quarters of a pint of gravy over this, and simmer it gently, stirring 
it frequently till it is hot through, but it must not boil. Garnish with 
toasted sippets. Minced lamb is very good served with boiled spinach. 
Most people would, however, prefer to have it cold rather than it 
should be warmed up in any way. Plain Eice Pudding (February 
24th). 

Dinner. — Fried Plaice (April 21st). Dutch Sauce.— R^dl Dutch 
sauce is thickened with yolk of Q,gg and no flour. Four yolks of 
eggs, two table-spoonfuls of cream or water, and two ounces of 
butter, a grate of nutmeg, and a little pepper and salt are put into a 
gallipot. This is put into a saucepan half full of cold water, placed 
over a gentle fire, and whisked briskly with a wooden spoon until it 
begins to thicken and look like rich cream, when it is taken off" the 
fire, and either lemon-juice or Tarragon or Chili vinegar to taste is 
stirred into it. Thus made, however, the sauce would be too expen- 
sive for every-day use, and a very excellent imitation of it may be 
made as follows : — Blend smoothly together haK a tea-spoonful of 
flour and an ounce of butter. Put the mixture into a gallipot, with a 
table- spoonful of water, another of Tarragon vinegar, and the yolk 
of an egg. Put the gallipot in a saucepan of cold water, place it on a 
gentle fire, and whisk till the sauce begins to thicken. If liked, add 
more vinegar or a little lemon-juice, and serve. However the sauce is 
made, it should be taken from the fire as soon as it is thick, and 
heated gently, or it will curdle. Broiled Steak (January 22nd) ; 
Maitre d'Hotel Butter (April 15th) ; Potato Snow (April 7th) ; Semo« 
Una Pudding (March 12th) ; Chees-e (June 8th). 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



187 



Things that must not be Forgo^yten. 

1. Turn and mb the mutton in the pickle. 

2. Preserve the remnants of the steak. 



May 15th. 



Breakfast. 



Boiled Eggs. 

Corned Beef. 

Hot Buttered Toast. 

Dry Toast. 

Brown and WMte Bread 

and Butter. 
Gooseben-y Fool. 



Luncheon. 

Shepherd's Pie. 
Jam and Bread Pudding 
Economical. 



Dinner. 



Milk Soup. 
Pigeon Pie. 
New Potatoes. 
Spring Cabbage. 
Lemon Pudding. 
Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— A Breast of Teal (February 25th). The butcher should be asked 
to bone the joint before sending it home. A thin slice of lean uncooked Ham ; 
a pound of Suet, for forcemeat and for the Lemon Pudding ; New Potatoes ; 
Spring Cabbage ; the whole or part of a fresh Ox Cheek ; two or three thin 
slices of Bacon, cured without saltpetre ; one pound and a half of Rump 
Steak, half an inch thick, or, if preferred, the same weight of lean Veal ; 
Gooseberries and Bottled Frvdt. 

For To-morrow.— Half an Ox Kidney, or three Sheep's Kidneys. Ask the 
butcher to send in the morning, well assorted, perfectly fresh, and weighing 
aboiit one pound and a half, a Lamb's Fry. In many places the fry is so much 
sought after that it is as well to speak for it beforehand. Half a pound of 
streaky Bacon in rashers ; Mustard and Cress. 

Breakfast. — Boiled Eggs (January 5th) ; Corned Beef left yester- 
day ; Gooseberry Fool (June 24th). 

Luncheon. — Shepherd's Pie, made of the scraps and trimmings of 
the broiled steak (January 12th) ; Jam and Bread Pudding, Eco- 
nomical (February 23rd). 

Dinner.— Milk Soup (January 3rd). Pigeon Pze.— Clean the 
pigeons, cut them in halves, and put iii each one a piece of maitre 
d'hotel butter that has been mixed with the livers parboiled and 
minced. Cut the steak, or, if it is preferred, the veal, into neat 
pieces, season these with salt and pepper, and place them at the 
bottom of the pie-dish. Over them lay the birds, cut in halves, and 
place the yolk of a hard-boiled egg between these. Lay a thin slice of 
bacon over each piece of pigeon, and half fill the dish with strong 
gravy made from bones. If permitted, a few mushrooms will greatly 
improve the flavour of the pie. Cover with pastry in the usual way. 
As this is a good pie, Puff Paste (April 24th), or, if this is too much 
trouble, Ptough Puff (May 29th), will answer excellently for it. When 
ornamenting the pie, scald and clean three of the feet, and place them 
in the hole at the top, in order to show what kind of pie it is. Brush 
over with yolk of egg, and bake in a well-heated oven. This pie should 
not, even in cold weather, be kept more than two days, as it quickly 
turns sour after it is baked. New Potatoes (April 12th) ; Spring 
Cabbage (June 4th); Lemon Pudding (August 12th); Cheese (June 8th). 



188 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Turn and rub the mutton in the pickle. 

2. If bacon or liam cured ■udthout saltpetre cannot easily be pro- 
cured, lightly boil the bacon before putting it in the pie. Unless this 
L5 done it may turn the contents of the pie red. 

3. Pastry is to be made to-day (April 17th) : the pigeon pie, a 
gooseberry and red currant tart (August Vth) from bottled fruit, 
lemon cheesecakes (August 18th) ; also sultana cake (August 2nd) 
and milk rolls (August 26th). If the season is early, fresh goose- 
berries may not be very expensive, and they may then be used. 

4. Clean the ox- cheek (Note 5, February 6th), also boil the brine, 
and let it go cold before using it again (January 13th). 

5. If any lemon pudding is left, it can be cut in slices, toasted, and 
served at luncheon. 

6. Boiled Veal. — Spread a thin layer of veal forcemeat over the 
inside of the breast of veal, sprinkle a table-spoonful of finely-chopped 
pickled gherkins over this, and lay the slice of ham on the top. Roll 
the veal very tightly, and bind it securely mth tape. Put it into a 
stewpan, with a plate under it to keep it from sticking, barely cover 
it with stock, and simmer it very gently for about three hours. Put it 
between two dishes, lay a heavy weight on the top, and let it go cold. 

7. If the bones are not required for making glaze, they should be 
stewed with the veal, and tlie stock may be used for soup. 



May 16th, 



Breakfast. 


Luncheon. 


Dinner, 


Remains ( f Pigeon Pie. 

Stewed Kidney. 

Milk;Eolls. 

Dry Toast. 

Brown and White Bread 

and Butter. 
Mustard and Cress. 
Milk Porridge. 


Lamb's Fry. 

Bacon. 

Sliced Lemon Pudding. 


Crdcy Soup. 

Chops. 

Piquante Sauce. 

Mashed Potatoes. 

Spinach. 

Vermicelli Pudding. 

Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— Three or four pounds of Loin Chops, as free from fat as pos- 
sible (April 30th) ; Potatoes ; Spinach ; a pennyworth of Parsley. Lamb's 
Fry to be sent in for Luncheon. 

For To-morrow.— A pair of thick Soles (January 3rd), filleted ; Potatoes; Spring 
Cabbage ; a tin of Sardines ; two heads of Lettuce ; a half -pennyworth of Beet- 
root ; a pennyworth of Radishes ; a half-pennyworth of Spring Onions ; four 
pennyworth of Finger Biscuits ; Sea Biscuits. 

Breakfast. — Pigeon Pie served yesterday ; Stewed Kidney (April 
2nd or April 16th); Milk Rolls (August 26th) ; Milk Porridge (June 
13th). 

Luncheon. — Lamb's Fry. — Look over the fry first thing in the 
morning, and if there are any hard gristly portions, such as the heart 



A TEAR'S COOKERY. 



189 



and the melt, trim tliem neatly, flour them, and turn them over in a 
frying-pan over the fire till they are lightly browned ; then put them 
into a pie-dish, barely cover them \dt\\ stock or water, and bake them 
in a moderate oven for a conple of hours. Turn them about occasion- 
ally, to keep them from sticking to the bottom of the dish. Twenty 
minutes before the fry is to be served dip the pieces in flour, and fry 
them gently in butter or dripping till done enough. They will take 
about a quarter of an hour. Take them up, drain them, and put all 
the fry together on a dish. Mix a dessert-spoonful of flour smoothly 
with a gill of the gravy from the dish ; pour this into the pan, and 
stir it till it boils and thickens ; add a little mushroom ketchup, 
pepper and salt, and a few drops of browning. Strain the sauce over 
the fry, and serve very hot. It is an improvement to roll the pieces 
of fry in Qgg and bread-crumb, or to dip them in frying batter (October 
22nd), before cooking them. Sliced Pudding (March 6th). 

Dinner. — Cr6cy Soup (January 5th). Mutton Chops. — Divide the 
loin into chops, trim away most of the fat (which may be melted 
down for frying or used to make a pudding), and dip the chops into 
^gg and bread-crumbs. Cook them as directed (April 30tli), and serve 
round mashed potatoes (]May 12th), with piquante sauce (May 5th) 
poured over them. Spinach (May 10th) \ Vermicelli Pudding (August 
1st) ; Cheese (June 8th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Turn and rub the mutton in the pickle. 

2. Turn and rub the cheek in the brine. 

3. Eemove the tape from the breast of veal, trim the ends evenly, 
and brush it over Avith glaze {see March 21st). 



Sunday, May 17th, 



Breakfast. 

Sardines. 
Rolled Veal. 
Milk Rolls. 
Dry Toast. 
Browu and WTiite 
Bread and Butter. 
Biscuits and Milk. 



Dinner. 

Fillets of Sole, 

Sautes. 
Roast Sour Mutton. 
Potato Snow. 
Spring Cabbage. 
General Favourite 

Pudding. 
Cheese. 



Tea, 

Brown and White 
Bread and Butter. 
Plum Jam. 
Sultana Cake. 



Supper. 

Cold Mutton. 
Salad. 

Gooseberry Tart. 
Lemon Cheese- 
cakes. 
Cheese. 



Breakfast. — Rolled Veal. — Put the veal on a clean dish, garnisli 
it with parsley, and cut it into very thin slices. It -will be excellent 
either as a breakfast, luncheon, or supper dish. Sardines (January 
12th) ; Milk Rolls (August 26th) ; Biscuits and Milk (June 14th). 

Dinner.— Sole Fillets of, Sautds (January 4th). Roast Sour Mutton 
(March 29th) ; Potato Snow (April 7th) ; Spring Cabbage (June 4th). 
General Favourite Pudding. — Spread a little strawberry jam very 
thinly over the finger biscuits, arrange them at the bottom of a dish, 



190 



A YEAR'S COOKERY, 



grate the rind of a lemon over tliem, and pour upon them half a pint 
of custard, made with a cupful of milk, the yolks of two eggs, and a 
little sugar. Let the biscuits soak for awhile. Whisk the whites of 
three eggs to a stiff froth, stir in lightly an ounce of sifted sugar, 
and as much finely-powdered and sifted arrowroot as will keep the 
eggs from falling. Lay the icing on the top of the pudding in broken 
masses, brown the top quickly in a hot oven or before the fire, and 
serve cold. The icing will take no harm if made an hour or two 
before it is wanted. 

Tea.— Sultana Cake (August 2nd). 

Supper.— Salad (March 13th); Goosberry Tart (August 7th); 
Lemon Cheesecakes (August 18th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Turn and rub the ox-cheek in the brine. 

2. Put the veal in a cool place as soon as it is done with. 



May 18th. 



Breakfast. 



Rolled Veal. 

Poacted Eggs on Toast. 

Milk Rolls. 

Dry Toast. 

Honey. 

Brown and WLite Bread 

and Butter. 
Bread and Milk. 



Luncheon. 

Haslied Mutton, 
Red Currant Tart. 



Dinner. 



! Croftte au Pot. 

j Boiled Aitchbone of Beef. 

' Carrots. 

! Summer Cabbage. 

Potatoes. 

Boiled Batter Pudding, 
witli Sweet Sauce. 

Cbeese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— Aitchbone of Beef. This joint is generally sold at a cheap rate, 
but it cannot be called economical, because it contains so much bone. When 
nicely cooked, however, it is very tender, and it is favoui-ed by many. 
Carrots ; Potatoes ; Summer Cabbage. 

For To-morrow.— A tin of Potted Grouse (January 7th) ; Bloaters (Note 2, 
January 2nd) ; threepennyworth of Cream. 

Breakfast. — Rolled Veal left yesterday ; Poached Eggs (February 
Cth) ; Milk Rolls (August 26th) ; Bread and Milk (January 25th). 

Luncheon. — Hashed Mutton. — Cut the meat from the bone in 
thin slices (if hash were made of boiled mutton the slices would have 
to be as thick again), trim them neatly, and put them aside. Break 
the mutton bone into three or four pieces. Slice two onions, and fry 
them in a little fat till they are lightly browned. Put them into a 
stewpan with a pint and a half of cold water, the mutton bones, and 
a turnip, and stew all gently together for an hour and a half. Strain 
the liquor into a basin, and set this in a pan of cold water, to make 
the fat rise ; skim it carefully, and put half a pint of the gravy back 
into the stewpan, with half a tea-spoonful of flour mixed smoothly 
with water to thicken it. Stir the sauce till it boils, then add the 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



191 



pieces of meat, a little pepper and salt, and a few drops of browning. 
Heat all very gently together by the side of the fire for half an hour, 
but on no account let the gravy boil, or the meat will be hard. Just 
before serving, stir in a tea-spoonful of sherry or a few drops of 
walnut vinegar, or any other flavouring that may be preferred. 
Arrange the slices of meat upon a dish, strain the sauce over them, 
garnish with toasted sippets, and serve. If a very small quantity 
of meat is on the mutton bone it will be well to mince instead of 
hashing it (January 20th) ; Red Currant Tart (August 7th). 

Dinner. — Croute au Pot (May 25th) ; Boiled Aitchbone of 
Beef (February 23rd) ; Carrots (July 6th) ; Summer Cabbage (June 
4th) ; Potatoes (May 12th). Boiled Batter Pudding. — Make some 
batter according to the recipe given for Toad-in-the-Hole (January 
15th), but use a spoonful or two less of milk, or the pudding may 
not turn out. Grease a pudding-basin that the batter will quite fill, 
and make it hot ; pour in the batter, sprinkle a little flour on the top, 
and tie securely over it a pudding-cloth that has been wiamg out of 
boiling water and floured. Place the basin in a saucejDan with plenty 
of boiling water, and keep boiling moderately fast for an hour and a 
half. Sometimes a spoonful of sugar, a grate or two of nutmeg, and 
a small piece of butter are added to the batter. Let the pudding 
stand two or three minutes before turning it out, garnish it with 
bright-coloured jelly, and send sweet sauce to table in a tureen. 
Sweet Sauce (July 19th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Turn and rub the ox-cheek in the brine. 

2. Stew the mutton bone again with the gravy that was not used 
and an additional quart of water. The goodness will not have been 
drawn from it with only one hour's simmering. 

3. Keep the bloaters apart from everything else in the larder. 

4. Wash a cupful of hominy, and put it to soak all night in cold 
water. 



May 19th. 



Breakfast. 


Luncheon. 


Dinner. 


Bloatox'^. 


Eolled Veal. 


Mackerel, k la Maltre 


Potted Grouse. 


Boiled Hominy, 


d'Hdtel. 


Hot Toast. 




Cold Beef. 


Dry Toast. 




Salad, 


Marmalade. 




Cucumber. 


Brown and Wiiite Bread 




Mashed Potatoes. 


and Butter. 




Stewed Rliubarb. 


Porridge. 




Cream. 






Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— A pair of moderate-sized Mackerel (April 4th) ; two heads of 
Lettuce; a half -pennyworth of Beetroot ; a pennyworth of Small Salad; two 



192 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



pennyworth of Watercress (lialf for breakfast to-morrow morning) ; a fresh 
Cucumber ; half a bundle of Rhubarb ; Potatoes, 
For To-morrow.— A tin of Preserved Lobster ; a tin of Pilchards ; Muffins 
(January 29th). 

BREAKFAST. — Bloaters (January 3rd); Potted Grouse (January 
7th) ; Porridge (January 25tli). 

Luncheon. — Kolled Yeal (Note 6, May 15th) ; Boiled Hominy 
(February Uth). 

Dinner. — Mackerel, a la Maitre d'Hotel (April 15th); Beef 
served yesterday; Salad (March 13th). Cucumber. — A cucumber 
may either be sent to table dressed (that is, peeled, cut into thin 
slices, seasoned with pepper and salt, then covered with one or 
two spoonfuls of vinegar and oil) or whole, on a dish covered with 
a napkin. In old-fashioned country-houses one or two small 
onions are sometimes sliced and mixed with the sli^ced cucumber. 
Mashed Potatoes (May 12th). Stewed Rhuharh. — Wash the rhubarb 
and cut it into three-inch lengths. For one pound of fruit make 
a syrup by boiling a quarter of a pint of water with six ounces of 
loaf sugar till clear. Put in the rhubarb and simmer it very gently 
till it is soft without having fallen. As the pieces become tender 
lift them one by one carefully into a glass dish, and when all are done 
pour the syrup out to cool. Add two or three drops of cochineal 
to the syrup to colour it, and pour it over the fruit. Early in the 
season the rhubarb need not be peeled, but when it gets old the 
skin must be removed. Champagne, or forced rhubarb, when it can 
be obtained, is the best for this dish. Stewed rhubarb is most 
delicious when a little cream is served with it. Cheese (June 8th). 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Turn and rub the ox-cheek in the brine. 

2. Watch the rhubarb very carefully when stemng it 
very quickly after it has once become tender. 



It falls 



Breakfast. 

Pilchards. 

Potted Grouse. 

Muffins. 

Dry Toast. 

Watercress. 

Brown and White Bread and 

Butter. 
Milk Toast. 



May 20th, 



Luncheon. 

Eissoles of Beef. 
Fried Hominy. 



Dinner. 

Lobster Soup. 

Eoast Shoulder of Mutton* 

Potatoes. 

Onions, Glazed. 

Broccoli. 

Gingerbread Pudding. 

Cbeese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— A well-kept Shoulder of Mutton, not too fat (January 17th) ; 
Onions ; Potatoes ; BroceoU ; a pennyworth of Parsley ; a pound of Beef 
Kidney Suet, part of it for to-day and part for to-morrow. 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



IW 



Breakfast. — Pilchards (January 23rd) ; Potted Grouse (January 
7th) ; Muffins (January 3(Jth) ; Milk Toast (June 17th). 

Luncheon. — Rissoles of the remains of Beef (January Gth) ; Fried 
Hominy (February 12th). 

DiNNEK. — Lobster Soup. — Take the stock made from the mutton 
bones (Note 2, May 18th), and stew it for an hour with a carrot, a 
turnip, a small onion, a very small pinch of celery-seed tied in 
muslin, and lialf a dozen peppercorns. Eub the soup through a 
sieve, and to each pint of liquor add a dessert-spoonful of corn- 
flour mixed smoothly with half a pint of milk. Stir the soup till 
it boils, then add pepper and salt to taste, and a quarter of a tea- 
spoonful of essence of anchovy. Break the yolk of an Qgg into the 
soup tureen, stir in the soup, and add the preserved lobster, cut into 
neat pieces. Let these stand for five or six minutes, and serve. The 
lobster must on no account boil in the soup. Pioast Shoulder of 
Mutton (December 16th) j Glazed Onions (February 14tli); Boiled 
Potatoes (April 7th) ; Broccoli (April 25th). Gingerbread Pudding. — 
Take six ounces of stale bread-crumbs that have been rubbed through 
a Avire sieve ; mix Avith them three ounces of flour, six ounces of 
finely-chopped beef suet, a tea-spoonful of powdered ginger, and a 
tea-spoonful of baking-powder. Dissolve two table-spoonfuLs of 
treacle in a gill of milk, add three drops of almond-flavouring, and 
make a smooth stift' paste by stirring the liquid into the dry ingre- 
dients. Turn the mixture into a buttered mould, lay a greased paper 
on the top, and steam the pudding for three hours. This pudding 
may be more easily, and rather more economically, made by rubbing 
a slice of beef dripping into flour instead of mixing bread-crumbs 
and flour with chopped suet. Cheese (June 8th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Turn and rub the ox-cheek in the brine. 

2. Pot what is left of the veal roll. It can be used for breakfast 
to-morrow. {See Potted Beef, January 23rd.) 



May 21st. 



Breakfast. 


Luncheon. 


Dinner. 


Potted Veal and Ham. 


Cauliflower au Gratin. 


Fried Whiting. 


Savoviry Eggs. 


Baked Plum Pudding. 


Minced Mutton Cakes, with 


Hot Buttered Toast. 




Tomato Sauce. 


Dry Toast. 




Calf's Liver and Bacon. 


Brown and Wliite Bread and 




New Potatoes. 


Butter. 




Spinach. 


Porridge. 




Guest's Pudding. 






Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For tlie iJay.— A large white Broccoli ; fresh Whiting (January 17th) ; a two- 
pound tin of Tomatoes ; one pound and a half of Calf's Liver ; one pound (if 



m 



A YEARS COOKERY. 



Streaky Bacon, cut into rashers (half for to-day and half for hreakfast to- 
morrow) ; New Potatoes ; Spinach. 
For To-morrow.— One Dried Haddock ; half a pound of Macaroni. 

Breakfast. — Potted Yeal and Ham, made yesterday. Savoury 
Eggs (January 1st); Porridge (January 25tli).^ 

Luncheon. — Cauliflower au Gratin (April 25tli); Baked Plum 
Pudding (February 25th). 

Dinner. — Fried Wliiting (January ITtli). Minced Mutton Cakes. — 
Cut tlie lean meat from the shoulder of mutton, and mince it according 
to the directions given (Januaiy 20th), being careful to stew the bones 
and trimmings until the gravy is so strong that it will jelly when* cold. 
If there is any difficulty about this, dissolve a tea-spoonful of gelatine 
in the gra^y. Put only so much gravy with the meat as will bind it 
together : four table-spoonfuls will be enough for one pound of mince. 
Spread the mince upon a dish, and when it is cold and stiff form it into 
cakes about two inches in diameter. Flour these lightly and brush 
them over with egg and bread-crumb ; let them lie for an hour, and 
then repeat the operation. Put them into a frying-basket, plunge them 
into boiling fat, and let them remain till brightly browned {see Fish 
(i^akes, January 13th). They will be done enough in from six to ei.ght 
minutes. Drain them on kitchen paper, arrange them round a dish, 
and pour tomato sauce into the centre (July 15th). Liver and Bacon 
(January 17th); New Potatoes (April 12th); Spinach (May 10th); 
Guest's Pudding (April 14th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Turn and rub the ox-cheek. 

2. Preserve any bacon that may be left. It can be used for 
luncheon to-morrow. 

3. If any pudding were left at luncheon it can be sliced and 
toasted for to-morrow. 

4. Preserve one or two rashers of bacon for braising the loin of 
lamb. 



Breakfast. 

Dried Haddock. 

Fried Bacon. 

Hot Buttexed Toast. 

Dry Toast. 

Brown and White Bread and 

Butter. 
Bread and MDk. 



May 22nd 



, Luncheon. 

Macaroni and Bacon. 
Sliced Pudding. 



Dinner. 

Potato Piuee. 

Loin of Lamb, Braised. 

Spinach. 

New Potatoes. 

Roly-poly Pudding. 

Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— A Loin of Lamb, or, if this is not sufficient for t!ie requirements 
of the family, a Saddle of Lamb— that is, two loins joined together. Be sure 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



195 



that the butcher joints the meat. Spinach ; New Potatoes ; half a pound of 
Beef Suet for to-day and to-morrow. 
For To-morrow.— Half a pound of Forced Mushrooms; a pennyworth of 

Watercress. 

Breakfast.— Dried Haddock (January 27th) ; Fried Bacon 
(January 2nd) ; Bread and Milk (January 25tli). 

Luncheon. — Macaroni and Bacon (January 27th); Sliced Pud- 
ding (March 6th). 

Dinner. — Potato Pur^e (January 26th). Loin of Lamh, Braised. 
— Take a close-fitting and thick stewpan, just large enough to hold the 
meat. Put two or three thin slices of bacon at the bottom of the pan, 
and add a table-spoonful of chopped mint and a table-spoonful of 
lemon-juice. Put in the lamb, lay a slice or two of bacon on the top, 
and add half a pint of stock or as much as will about half cover the 
meat. Simmer very gently indeed for an hour and a half, and when 
the meat is half cooked turn it over. Take it up, drain it, and keep 
it hot. Take the fat off the gravy, and boil it quickly to reduce it. 
When it is very strong season it with pepper and salt, put the lamb 
in it for a few minutes to make it hot, and serve it with the gravy 
strained over it. Spinach (May 10th) ; New Potatoes (April 12th) ; 
Koly-poly Pudding (August 18th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Boil the ox-cheek (April 6th). Press it between two dishes and 
place a heavy weight on the upper one. 

2. Pastry is to be made to-day (April 17th) : rhubarb pie, open jam 
tart (August 7th), jam turnovers (September 25th), rice cake (August 
2nd), scones (August 26th). 

3. Make a ground rice mould for dinner to-morrow (August 7thX 



May 23rd. 



Breakfast. 

Mock Tongue (Ox-cheek). 

Stewed Mushrooms. 

Scoues. 

Dry Toast. 

Brown and White Bread and 

Butter. 
Milk Toast. 



Luncheon. 

Scotch Collopa. 
Baked Batter Pudding, 



Dinner. 

Fried Plaice. 

Dutch Sauce. 

stewed Savoury Beef. 

Mashed Potatoe.s. 

Ground Rice Mould, with 

Red Currant Jam. 
Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— Fresh Sheep's Hearts: one will probably be sufficient for two per- 
sons. A thick Plaice (April 21st) ; about four pounds of the Leg of Mutton 
piece, or a small piece of the Round of Beef. Brush the beef quickly over 
with vinegar before cooking it. Potatoes ; a pennyworth of Parsley. 

For To-morrow.— A Cabbage Lettuce ; an ounce of Chervil ; three-pennyworth 
of Cream ; half or the whole of a Calf's Head ; four pounds of Gammon of 
Bacon ; IST ew Potatoes ; Broccoli ; Sea-kale ; half a pound of Ratafias, for 
Mountain Pudding ; a tin of Preserved Salmon of a good brand ; Ingredients' 
for a Salad, with additional Watercress for breakfast. 



196 



A YEARS COOKERY. 



Breakfast. — Stewed Mushrooms (March 20th). Scones (August 
26th). — Make the scones hot m the oven, open and butter them- 
Milk Toast (June 17th). 

Luncheon. — Sheep's Hearts (July 2nd). Baked Batter 
Pudding (February 5th) may be eaten either with the meat and 
gravy or separately with sugar or jam. 

Dinner. — Fried Plaice (April 21st) ; Dutch Sauce (May 14th), 
Stewed Savoury Beef. — Cut two thin slices from the gammon of bacon, 
and- lay one under and one upon the beef. Grease an earthenware 
jar with a close-fitting lid, put in the beef, and throw in a bunch of 
parsley, liaK a blade of mace, two cloves, and six peppercorns. Pour 
over all three-quarters of a pint of stock or cold water, lay a slice of 
dripping on the beef, fasten down the jar, and set it in a moderately- 
heated oven. Let it stew gently for two hours, and baste it occasion- 
ally with the liquor. "When the meat is done enough pour off the 
gravy, strain it, and free it from fat. Make it hot in a saucepan, 
thicken it by stirring into it a tea-spoonful of flour mixed smoothly 
with a little cold water, season it with pepper and salt, and stir into 
it a table-spoonful of finely-chopped pickled gherkins. Put the meat 
on a dish, pour the gravy over, and serve ^^^th red currant jelly as 
an accomjianiment. This dish is very good cold. Mashed Potatoes 
(May 12th); Ground Eice Mould (August 7th) made yesterday; 
Cheese (June 8tli). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. If any savoury stew is left, put it upon a clean dish and serve 
for breakfast to-morrow. 

2. Throw the caK's brains into water as soon as they come in. 

3. Make a little mayonnaise and bottle it closely, to serve with the 
mayonnaise of salmon to-morrow evening (August 30th). 

4. Peel and slice five or six potatoes and throw them into cold 
water, ready to be fried to-morrow morning. They will not be much 
trouble, and will be a very agreeable addition to the brealdast-table. 



Sunday, May 24th. 



Breakfast. 


Dinner. 


Tea. 


Suppei 


Cold Beef. 


Milk Soup. 


Brown and White 


Mayonnaise c 


Fried Potatoes. 


Calf's Head, with 


Bread and Butter. 


Salmon. 


Watercress. 


Biuiu Sauce. 


Strawberry Jam. 


Rhubarb Tart. 


Scones. 


Boiled Bacon. 


Rice Cake. 


Cream. 


Dry Toast. 


New Potatoes. 




Cheese. 


Brown and Wliite 


Sea-kale. 






Bread and Butter. 


Mountain Pudding. 






Milk Porridge. 


Cheese. 







Breakfast.— Beef served yesterday. Fried Potatoes (February 
2nd, May 23rd) ; Milk Porridge ^June 13t1i). 



A YEARS COOKERY 



m 



Dinner. — Milk Soup (January 3rd) ; CaK's Head, Boiled (April 
19tli); Boiled Bacon (March SOth) ; New Potatoes (April 12th) ; Broccoli 
(April 25th); fSea-kale (June 14th); Mountain Pudding (September 
20th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 

Tea.— Rice Cake (August 2nd). 

Supper. — Mayonnaise of Salmon. — Dry the salad in th^ usual 
way (March 13th), and shred it finely. Take the salmon out of the 
tin and break it into neat pieces. Put a layer of salad upon a dish, 
and place the inferior pieces of salmon on the top ; then repeat in 
alternate layers until the salmon and salad are used, being careful to 
put the most presentable pieces of fish where they will be seen. Pour 
a small portion of the sauce over the different layers, so that it may 
penetrate through the mass, but leave plenty of sauce for the top. 
Garnish with hard-boiled eggs, olives, beet-root, or anything else that 
may be at hand. Just before serving pour the mayonnaise sauce 
(August 3()th) over the top of the salad, sprinkle half a tea-spoonful 
of chopped parsley over all, and the salad is ready. A very pretty 
way of garnisliing the salad is to cut the beet-root into thin strips, 
and with these to make a kind of open lattice-work round the lower 
part of the salad, to place hard-boiled eggs cut into quarters len^gth- 
wise over this, and to ornament the summit of the pile with olives. 
Salad and maj^onuaise can be arranged in this way with fresh pickled 
salmon, lobsters, fresh and preserved, filleted herrings, and cold 
dressed fish of various kinds. A very excellent mayonnaise of salmon 
may be prepared by boiling a salmon whole, placing it on a dish with 
lettuce-hearts round it, and mayonnaise sauce as an accompaniment. 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. If any mayonnaise sauce is left, bottle it and cork it closely. 

2. The liquor in which the calf's head was boiled is so greasy 
that it will be best made into lentil or pease soup on May 26th. 



May 25th, 



Breakfast. 


Luncheon. 


Dinner. 


Oold Boiled Bacon. 


Macaroni and Ham. 


Croftte an Pot. 


Mock Tongue (Ox-cheek). 


Jam Turnovers. 


Boiled Leg of Mutton. 


Scones. 




Caper Sauce. 


Drv Toast. 




Young Carrots. 


Brown and White Bread and 




Mashed Potatoes. 


Butter. 




Open Jam Tart. 


Corn Flour MUk. 




Custards. 
Cheese. 



Marketing. 
For the Day.— A plump Leg of Mutton ; 3-oung Carrots ; Potatoes. 
For To-inorrow.— Bespeak a Lamb's Fry ; one pound of Jimerican Dried Apples 
(chips)— see Note 1, on next page ; Mustard and Cress. 



198 A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



Breakfast. — Bacon served with the Calfs Head yesterday. 
Mock Tongue served the day before yesterday. Scones (May 23rd) ; 
Corn Flour Milk (June 19th). 

Luncheon. — Macaroni and Ham, made of a portion of the boiled 
gammon (April 3rd). In making the mould preserve a portion of 
ham for the ham toast to-morrow. Jam Turnovers (September 25th). 

Dinner. — Croute au Pot. — Strictly speaking, Croiite au Pot is 
clear soup with crusts and homely vegetables thrown into it. The 
process of making clear soup is, however, too troublesome for daily 
use (July 30th), and an excellent soup, which is literally Croute au Pot, 
may be made as follows : — Take two-pennyworth of bones, cooked or 
uncooked ; break them into small pieces, and put them into a stew- 
pan with two quarts of cold water. When the liquor approaches the 
boiling point throw in a little salt to raise the scum, and skim with 
an iron spoon. Meantime, prepare in the usual way two carrots, 
a turnip, two leeks or one good-sized onion, a pinch of mijLed 
savoury herbs or, wanting these, a bunch of parsley, a sprig of 
thyme, and a bay-leaf, a little celery-seed, fifteen peppercorns, and, last 
of all, three stale crusts of bread toasted brown. Throw these 
ingredients into the soup, let it boil up again, skim it once more, 
draw it back, and let it simmer gently for two hours. If convenient, 
the laones might with advantage be stewed longer, but two hours will 
be enough for the vegetables. Take out the bones, strain the liquor 
into a IdowI, and rub the vegetables and the bread thxough a hair 
sieve. Keep a little of the liquor hot : it wdll help to moisten the 
pulp and make it go through the sieve more easily. Mix the pulp 
with the liquor, return it to the stewpan, and let it boil ; then add 
two or three drops of browning if necessary, and the soup is ready to 
serve. If a dozen pea-shells, or better still, a cupful of green peas 
can be added to the soup, its flavour will be improved. Soup made 
in this way and mthout the bread may be thickened with flour or corn- 
flour (a table-spoonfid to a pint), mixed to a smooth paste with water 
and stirred into the soup, and boiled for a few minutes till the flour is 
cooked. It is then called Brown Sou]). The majority of people 
would, however, much prefer a soup thickened with bread rather 
than flour, and the method is convenient because it enables the cook 
to use profitably pieces of bread that would otherwise be wasted. 
Not too much bread must be used, however, or the soup will taste 
pappy. Boiled Leg of Mutton (February 23rd) ; Caper Sauce (March 
19th); Carrots (July 6th); Mashed Potatoes (May 12th); Custard 
(August 10th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 
1. Dried Apples, imported from America and sold by grocers, are 
excellent for cooking purposes when properly prepared, and they are 
much more economical than fresh fruit. Wash one pound of chips, 
and put them with a quart of water into the oven when it is cool and 
uot wanted for other purposes. Let them stew for twelve hours (they 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



199 



can remain in the oven all night), and they arc ready to be sweetened, 
flavoured, and used. 

2. Wash two table-spoonfuls of tapioca and soak it in water all night. 

3. Soak a cupful of green lentils in cold water. 

4. Make a mould for breakfast of the remains of the calf's head 
(April 20th). 



Breakfast. 

Calf's Head Mould. 

Ham Toast. 

Dry Toast. 

Brown and Wliite Bread and 

Butter, 
Mustard and Cress. 
Bread and Milk. 



May 26th, 

Lunelle on. 

Lamb's Fry. 
Tapioca and Apples. 



Dinner. 

Lentil Soup. 

Curried Mutton (made ol 

cold Boiled Mutton) . 
Boiled Rice. 
Treacle Pudding. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— A fresh Lamb's Fry ; a quarter of a pound of fresh Beef Suet ; 
if hams were not cured at home in the season, a sugar-cured Ham, weighing 
about twelve pounds (September 17th) ; a piece of the thin flank of Beef, 
weighing from eight to ten poxmds. 

Breakfast.— Calf's Head Mould (April 20th); Ham Toast (March 
28th) ; Bread and Milk (January 25th). 

Luncheon. — Lamb's Fry (May 16th); Tapioca and Apples (Feb- 
ruary 18th). 

Dinner. — Lentil Soup (April 1st). Curried Mutton. — Curry may 
be made either of fresh or cooked meat. Veal, chicken, rabbits, and 
similar meats, are particularly suited to this mode of cookery. To 
curry fresh meat, see July 16th. For cooked meat proceed as follows : 
— Cut the meat from the cold mutton into small neat pieces, and trim 
away the skin and gristle, but not the fat. Leave on the bone the 
broken remnants of meat : they can be minced for luncheon 
to-morrow. Peel six good-sized onions and chop them small; 
then fry them in a little butter or dripping till they are lightly 
browned. Take them up with a slice, and fry in the same fat 
two sour apples that have oeen pared and chopped smalh When 
these are soft drain away the fat, return the onions to the stew- 
pan, pour on a pint of the liquor in which the mutton was boiled, and 
simmer gently till the onions and apples are perfectly tender, then 
rub them through a hair sieve. Mix smoothly with the pulp a 
dessert-spoonful of Captain White's curry-paste, a tea-spoonful of 
curry-powder, a dessert-spoonful of ground rice, and a few drops of 
browning. Stir in the pint of liquor, and boil the same over the 
fire, stirring it frequently, till it is thick and smooth like very thick 
gruel. Taste it, and if it is not sufficiently acid add a few drops of 
lemon-juice. Draw the pan back, put in the slices of meat, cover 
them with the sauce, and let them heat gently by the side of the fire 



200 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



for half an hour. The liquid must on no account boil, or the meat 
will be hard. Just before serving hold it over the fire for a minute 
to make it hot (but still, do not let it boil), put it on a dish, pile the 
rice round it like a wall, and serve. The sauce for curry should 
not be liquid, but thick. If apples are not at hand, green goose- 
berries or lemon-juice will supply the acidity required. The addition 
of a little freshly-grated cocoa-nut or grated Brazil nuts gives s 
pleasant variety of flavour. Good curry, if ^ accompanied, as it 
should be, by rice, boiled so that every grain is separate, does not 
need potatoes with it. To boil rice for curries, see July 21st. 
Curry is an excellent dish for hot weather, and is highly esteemed 
in hot countries. Treacle Pudding ( ^March 28th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Boil up the brine, or, if necessary, make fresh brine (January 
13th), and lay the flank of beef in it. 

2. Cut ofl" one-third of the sugar-cured ham and soak it all night 
in cold water. If very dry, a ham should be soaked for twenty-four 
hours. 



May 27th, 



Breakfast. 


Luncheon. 


Dinner. 


Buttered Eggrs. 

Calf's Head Mould. 

Hot Buttered Toast. 

Dry Toast. 

Houey. 

Brown andWTiite Bread and 

Butter. 
Milk Porridge. 


Minced Mutton. 
Plain Rice Pudding. 


Sole au Gnitiu. 
Stewed Steak. 
Maslied Potatoes. 
Turnip-tops. 
Hayrick Puddings. 
Clieese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— A pair of thick fresh Soles (January 3rd) ; three pounds of tender 
Steak, cut evenly and about an inch and a half thick (see Marketing, January 
1st) ; Potatoes ; Turnip-tops ; one-pennyworth of Parsley. 

For To-inoi*row.— A keg or a bottle of Anchovies, if there are none in the house; 
Muffins (January 29th). 

Breakfast. — Buttered Eggs (January 16th); Milk Porridge 
(June 13th). 

LuxcHEON.— MTicecZ Muttou (January 20th) ; Plain Rice Pudding 
(February 24th). 

Dinner.— Sole au Gratin (May 3rd); Stewed Steak (January 
3l8t); Mashed Potatoes (May 12th)- Turnip-tops {see Cabbage, June 
4th) ; Hajaick Puddings (March 19th); Cheese (June 8th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Preserve any little pieces of steak that may be left ; they caa 
be used for the Shepherd's Pie to-morrow. 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



201 



2. Fillet the anchovies and prepare the stock for anchovy toast 
to-morrow (January 8th). 

3. jSIalve tlie rhubarb mould for dinner to-morrow (June 3rd). 

4. Boil the piece of ham. To do this, trim, scrape, and brush it 
well, and put it in a stewpan with plenty of cold water to cover it. 
Let it heat slowly, skim it carefully; after boiling for two minutes 
draw it back, and simmer it very gently but continuously till done 
enough. A piece of ham will take about half an hour to the pound 
from the time the water boils ; a whole ham of a good size would 
need six hours, a small ham about four hours. When the meat can 
be pierced easily with a skewer and the skin will peel off readily it 
IS done enough. If it is to be eaten cold, it is an improvement to 
leave it in the liquor till half cold. This, however, must not lead to 
its being left in the saucepan all night. Draw off the skin, trim the 
ham, and shake bread-raspings (January 2nd and February 1st) over 
it. Put it in the oven or before the fire to set the crumbs, and the 
ham is ready to serve. The flavour of the ham will be improved 
if a carrot or even a little celery-seed and a bunch of herbs are boiled 
with it. It wdll be remembered that a ham should be soaked for 
awhile before it is boiled (Note 2, ]\lay 2Gth). 

5. Turn and rub the beef in the brine. 



May 28th. 



Breakfast. 


Luncheon. 


Dinner. 


Anchovy Toast. 


Shepherd's Pie. 


Vermicelli Soup. 


Boiled Ham. 


Hasty Pudding. 


Neck of Veal, Rolled and 


Muffins. 




Roasted. 


Dry Toast. 




Spinach. 


Brown and White Bread and 




New Potatoes. 


Butter. 




Rhubarb Mould. 


Corn Flour Milk. 




Custard. 
Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— Five pounds of the best end of a Neck of Veal (Feb. 25th). ' Ask 

the butcher to cut it for rolling, and bone the joint. Potatoes ; Spinach. 
For To-morrow.— A four-pound tin of Australian Meat ; a bottle of Preserved 

Raspberries. 

Breakfast. — Anchovy Toast (January 8th); Ham boiled yes- 
terday; Muflans (January 30th); Corn Flour Milk (June 19th). 

Luncheon. — Shepherd's Pie, made of remnants of steak and cold 
mashed potatoes, if there be any (January 12th); Hasty Pudding 
(March 30th). 

Dinner.— Vermicelli Soup (March 22nd). Neck of Veal, Rolled 
and Roasted. — Lay the boned veal flat on the table, and sprinkle upon 
it a little chopped parsley and powdered thyme, with pepper and salt 
or, if preferred, spread forcemeat upon it. Jiay thin slices of the 



202 



A YEARS COOKERY. 



fatty part of the ham upon it, roll it very tightly, and bind it with 
tape. Rub it over with bacon fat and roast it before a clear fire, 
basting it frequently (March 4tli). It will take about half an hour 
to the pound. Take two or three strips of bacon-rind and fry them 
with the veal bones. Put them into a stewpan, pour over them a 

Eint and a half of stock or water, and let them simmer gently for an 
our. Put in a bunch of i^arsley and a sprig of thyme, half an inch 
of lemon-rind, and half a small blade of mace, and simmer again till 
the gravy is considerably reduced. Strain it and free it from fat. 
Stir into it a tea-spoonful of corn-flour mixed smoothly with water, 
and boil it, stirring it all the time, for two or three minutes till 
thick. Add a little sugar browning and two table-spoonfuls of 
cream, if it is to be had, with pepper and salt to taste. Put the 
meat in a tin before the fire, and baste it with its gra^y for about ten 
minutes. Put it on a hot dish, strain the gravy over it, and garnish 
with sliced lemon. Spinach (May 10th); New Potatoes (April 12th); 
Custard (August 10th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Reserve a little of the gravy made from the bones for Veal 
Cake to be made to-morrow. To make it, cut the veal into neat 
slices, and take an equal number of slices of lean ham. Arrange 
the meat in layers in a mould, and put hard-boiled eggs cut in 
slices, with a sprinkling of chopped parsley, pepper, and salt between 
each layer. Fill the mould with the gravy, bake in the oven for 
about half an hour, and turn the shape out when cold. Garnish the 
cake with parsley, and serve. 

2. Wash a pound of prunes, and put them to soak in cold water 
all night. 

3. Make hydropathic pudding of the bottled raspberries, for dinner 
to-morrow (June 16th). 

4 Turn and rub the beef in the brine. 



May 29th 



Break! ast. 


Luncheon. 


Dinner. 


Boiled Eggs. 


Australian Meat, 


Cold. 


Fried Plaice. 


Boiled Ham. 


Baked Potatoes. 




Colt's Liver and Bacon. 


Hot Buttered Toast. 


Pickle. 




Mutton Cliops, Stewed io 
their own Gravy. 


Dry Toast. 


Stewed Prunes. 




Brown and Wliite Bread and 






New Potatoes. 


Butter. 






Spring Cabbages. 


Milk Toast. 






Hydropathic Pudding. 
Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— A thick Plaice (April 21st and January 3rd) ; a pound and a 
half of Calf's Liver ; half a pound of Streaky Bacon, cut into rashers. As it 
18 possible that the liver will be too much for the digestion of some of the 



A YEAR'S COOKERY, 203 



diners, it will be well to have also a dish of Mutton Chops stewed in their own 
gravy. The chops, as many as may he required, will he best taken from the 
loin. New Potatoes; Spring Cabbages; one-pennyworth of fresh German 

For To-morrow.— Two-pennyworth of Watercress. 



Beeakfast. — Boiled Eggs (January 5th); Boiled Ham (Note 4, 
May 27th) ; Milk Toast (June 17th). 

Luncheon. — Australian Meat, Cold (February 4tli) ; Baked Pota- 
toes (May 4tli) ; Stewed Prunes (February 27th). 

Dinner. — Fried Plaice (April 21st); Calf's Liver and Bacon 
(January 17th). Mutton Ghoj^s, Stewed in their oxon Gravy. — Trim 
away the fat entirely, dip each chop quickly in and out of cold 
water, sprinkle pepper lightly upon it, and dredge it well on both 
sides with flour. For each chop that is to be cooked put a table- 
spoonful of water or broth into a thick iron saucepan, lay the chops 
side by side in a single layer, put on the lid, and simmer as gently as 
possible, but without ceasing, for an hour and a half. Turn them 
over when half cooked. Just before serving throw a tea-spoonful 
of chopped parsley into the gravy. If the gravy should be dried up, 
another spoonful or two of water may be added, but there will not be 
much fear of this if the chops are gently stewed. Chops prepared in 
this way are tender and easily digested, and suitable for invalids. 
New Potatoes (April 12th) ; Spring Cabbages (June 4th) ; Hydro- 
pathic Pudding (June 16th); Custard (August 10th); Cheese (June 
8th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Make a veal cake of the remains of the dressed veal (Note 1, 
May 28th). 

2. Turn and rub the beef in the brine. 

3. Pastry is to be made to-day : gooseberry pie of bottled goose- 
berries, or of fresh gooseberries if the season is an early one (August 
7th) ; lemon cheesecakes (August 18th) \ treacle tart (August 7th) ; 
also Vienna bread (August 26th) ; Annie's cake (September 25th). 
Rough Puff Paste. — Many housekeepers would consider puff paste 
(April 24tli) too troublesome to make, as well as too expensive, 
and, it might be added, too indigestible to be used excepting on 
very special occasions. When this is the case the directions 
given in the following recipe may be followed, and the pastry 
will be found excellent, being suited for superior pies, tarts, and 
tartlets. Put half a pound of fine flour (Vienna flour if it is 
allowed) upon a board, with six ounces of butter, and chop the 
butter in the flour with a knife. A dexterous cook may break, 
not rub, the butter in the flour. Make a well in the centre of 
the flour, and drop into it half a tea-spoonful of lemon-juice, a 
pinch of salt, and the yolk of an e^g. The latter may be omitted. 
Mix the pastry^ lightly with water; the water should be added 
gradually and mixed in with the fingers. Keep the board and the 



204 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



hand floured, to prevent the pastry sticking to it. The pastry 
should not be too stiff, or it will not be light. Flour the rolling- 
pin and give the pastry three good rolls, and after each roll fold 
the pastry over in half and turn the rough edges to the front. If 
the pastry bladders or cracks as it is rolled, it is a sign that it is good. 
To make a pie, moisten the edge of the dish, and lay on it a strip 
of paste three-quarters of an inch thick. Moisten the edge again, 
and roll the paste for the top, but much thinner than for the 
strip. Brush the top, but not the sides, of the pastry over with 
yolk of egg, and bake it in a well-heated but not fierce oven. The 
oven must not be fierce because the pastry is to rise ; if too hot 
it would stiffen the surface at once without giving it a chance of 
rising. When the pastry is done enough the pie should be put in 
the top or cooler part of the oven to cook the inside. An easy way 
of making Puff Paste is to brush white of egg over the paste between 
the turns. 

4. Boil the piece of ham that is in the house (Note 4, May 27th). 



May 30th. 



Breakfast. 


Luncheon. 


Dinner. 


Eggs on the Dish. 


Australian Savoury Hash. 


Pickled Salmon. 


Boiled Ham. 


Treacle Tart. 


Chicken Saut^ aiix Cham- 


Vienna Bread. 




pignons. 


Dry Toast. 




New Potatoes. 


Brown and White Bread and 




Cabhasre. 


Butter. 




Golden Pudding. 


Watercress. 




Cheese. 


Porridge. 







Marketing. 

For the Day.— Half a pound of Mushrooms, or, failing these, a small tin of 
Champignons ; a tin of Preserved Salmon ; a two-pound tin of Roast 
Chicken ; six ounces of Beef Suet ; a pennyworth of Parsley. 

For To-morrow.- A pair of thick Soles (January 3rd) ; the fishmonger should 
be asked to fillet the fish. A Fore-quarter of Lamb (April 11th); four 
moderate-sized fresh Mackerel (April Ith) ; two-pennyworth of young Mint ; 
New Potatoes ; materials for the Salad on Sunday night ; Spinach ; a bunch 
of Asparagus ; a tin of Preserved Peaches. Order also three pennyworth of 
Cream for the Gooseberry Pie. 

Breakfast.— Veal Cake (May 28th); Ham boiled May 29th; 
Vienna Bread (August 26th) ; Porridge (January 25th). 

Luncheon. — Savoury Hash of Australian 'Meat (February 5th) ; 
Treacle Tart (August 7th), made yesterday. 

Dinner. — Pickled Salmon. — To pickle preserved salmon, take the 
Dalmon out of the tin an hour or two before it is wanted, divide it 
into neat pieces (this will make it look more like fresh salmon), 
and pour over it a pickle made of equal parts of vinegar and 
water, boiled with peppercorns, and allowed to go cold. When the 



A TEAM'S COOKERY. 



205 



salmon is to be served put the pieces on a dish, pour a little of 
the liquor round, and garnish with curled endive. Fresh salmon 
that has been cooked may be pickled in the same way, but it 
should lie at least twelve hours covered with vinegar. Uncooked 
salmon should be lifted in good-sized pieces from the bone, laid 
in an earthen pan, sprinkled over with salt, covered with vinegar, 
tied down securely, and baked m a gentle oven till done enough, 
then left in the pickle till wanted. A dozen peppercorns or more 
should _ be placed in the dish with it. Chicken Saut^ aux 
Champignons (April 2nd); New Potatoes (April 12th); Cabbage 
(June 4th) ; Golden Pudding (May 4th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Turn and rub the beef in the brine. 

2. Pickle the mackerel for breakfast to-morrow (August 28th). 



Sunday, May 31st. 



Breakfast. 


Dinner. 


Tea. 


Supper. 


Pickled Mackerel. 


Soles, Filleted at.1 


Brown and White 


Cold Lamb. 


Boiled Ham. 


Rolled, with 


Bread and Butter. 


Mint Sauce. 


Vienna Bread. 


Brown Butter. 


Damson Jam. 


Salad. 


Dry Toast. 


Eoast Quarter of 


Annie's Cake. 


Gooseberry Tart. 


Marmalade. 


Lamb, with Mint 




Cream. 


Brown and White 


Sauce. 




Cheese. 


Bread and Butter, 


New Potatoes. 






Porridge. 


Spinach. 
Asparagns. 
Dutch Sauce. 
Tinned Peaches. 
Custard. 








Cheese. 







Breakfast.— Veal Cake (May 28th) ; Pickled Mackerel (August 
28th) ; Ham boiled May 29th ; Vienna Bread (August 26th) ; Porridge 
(January 25th). 

Dinner.— Soles, Filleted, Rolled, and Baked (March 1st), with 
Brown Butter Sauce (February 12th) ; Roast Quarter of Lamb 
(March 4th and April 12th); Mint Sauce (March 25th); New 
Potatoes (April 12th) ; Spinach (May 10th) ; Asparagus (June 14th) ; 
Dutch Sauce (^lay 14tli) ; Preserved Peaches (April 11th) ; Custard 
(August lOth) ; Cheese (June 8th). 

Tea. — Annie's Cake (September 25th). 

Supper.— Salad (March 13th) ; Gooseberry Pie (August 7th). 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Turn and rub the beef in the brine. 

2. If any mackerel is left, return it to the pickle and keep it 
covered. 



206 A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



3. If there is enough meat on the ribs of lamb to supply what is 
wanted for supper, leave the shoulder of lamb untouched ; it can be 
served at dinner to-morrow. 

4. Put aside a few heads of asparagus for breakfast. 



FRUITS SUITABLE FOR DESSERT IN MAY. 

Apples, Oranges, Grapes, Nuts (Filberts, Brazils, Barcelonas, 
Almonds), Raisins, French Plums, Figs, Dates, Crystallised Fruits, 
Foreign Preserved Fruit. 



DISHES FOR INVALIDS. 

SPOON MEAT. 



Water Gruel (No. 1). — Mix a table-spoonful of oatmeal into a 
smooth paste with a little cold water, and add gradually a pint of 
boiling water. Boil for a quarter of an hour, stirring all the time ; 
season with salt or sugar, according to taste, strain, and serve. If 
the gruel is not well boiled it will produce flatulency. 

Watei' Gruel (No. 2). — Mix a table-spoonful of patent groats to a 
smooth paste with water, add a pint of boiling water, and stir over 
the fire for ten minutes^ season, and serve. Gruel is more nourishing 
when made with milk instead of water. 

Saffo. — Soak a table-spoonful of sago for a couple of hours, to take 
away the earthy taste. If there is not time for this it may be dis- 
pensed with. Boil it in a pint of water, stirring it all the time, till it 
is quite transparent. Pour it into a basin, sweeten it with sugar, and 
flavour it with brandy or wine, if approved, or with a little orange- 
flower water. If liked, a little orange or lemon-rind may be boiled 
with the sago, which may be made with milk instead of water. 

Tapioca. — This is prepared like sago. 

Arroivroot. — Mix a dessert-spoonful of arrowroot to a smooth 
paste with a Little water, pour upon it half a pint of boiling water 
or milk, and stir it over the fire for a minute or two till it is on the 
point of boiling ; sweeten and flavour to taste, and serve. . 

Rice Gruel. — Mix a table-spoonful of ground rice to a smooth 

Easte with water, add a pint of cold water, and boil well for half an 
our. Sweeten and flavour to taste. Two or three table-spoonfuls of 
cranberries may be added to rice gruel, if approved. 

Panada. — Take the crumb of half a stale i)enny loaf, pour a pint 
of water upon it, and boil it for five minutes. Beat it till smooth, 
put with it a piece of butter, a little sugar and grated nutmeg, and a 
little black currant jelly, if liked, with as much more water as is 
agreeable ; stir it over the fire for ten minutes, and serve. Sometimes 
the white meat from the breast of a roasted chicken is chopped, 
pounded iu a mortar, and mixed with the soaked bread ; or the 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



2m 



flesh of game, young pheasant, partridge, or rabbit, is substituted 
for that of the chicken. 

Thick Milk. — Mix a good table-spoonful of corn-flour with a pint 
of cold milk, and boil for twenty minutes ; sweeten to taste, add a 
spoonful of brandy and two or three drops of vanilla, and serve. 

Savoury Custard. — Mix a dessert-spoonful of corn-flour to a 
smooth paste with water, and add half a pint of either beef tea or 
mutton or chicken broth. Stir over the fire for five minutes, add salt, 
and serve. For another Savoury Custard, see July 30th. 

Cocoa made from Cocoa-nibs. — See January 18th. 



June 1st. 



Breakfast. 

Asparagus on Toast. 
Pickled Mackerel. 
Vienna Bread. 
BrowTi and White Bread and 

Butter. 
Honey. 
Bread and Milk. 



Luncheon. 

Minced Ham. 
Toasted Sippets. 
Lemon Cheesecakes. 



Dinner. 

S:1gO Soup. 

Cold Shoulder of Lamb. 
Cucumber. 
Fresh Salad. 
Wyveru Puddings. 
Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— A tin of Sardines (January 12th) ; a collared Tongue (January 
2nd) ; a pound of American dried Apples, " chips " ; a Cucumber. As soon as 
a Cucumber is brought in, it should be put (the stalk end downwards) into a 
jug of cold water. 



Breakfast. — Asparagus with Eggs (May 4th) ; Pickled Mackerel 
(August 28th) ; Vienna Bread (August 26th) ; Bread and Milk 
(January 25th). 

Luncheon. — Minced Ham (made of the scraps cut from the 
boiled ham). — Prepare the ham as for ham toast (March 28th). Put 
the mince on a dish, garnish with toasted sippets, and send baked 
potatoes to table with it. Lemon Cheesecakes (August 18th). 

Dinner. — Sago Soup. — Wash two ounces of the best pearl sago in 
plenty of water, and boil it with a quart of good stock till transparent. 
Season with salt, a pinch of cayenne, a lump of sugar, and as much 
powdered mace as would lie on a threepenny-piece ; squeeze a few 
drops of leinon-juice into it, add a glass of sherry, if i)erinitted, and 
serve. Lamb served yesterday ; Cucumber (May 19th) ; Potato 
Salad (April 12th) ; Wyvern Puddings (May 9th); Cheese (June 8th). 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Turn and rub the beef in the brine. 

2. Prepare the apple chips (^^ote 1, May 25th) ; stew them with the 
sliced beet-root after they have been taken from the jar. 



A YEAKS COOKERY. 



June 2nd. 



Breakfast. 

Sardines. 

Collared Tongue. 

Hot Toast. 

Dry Toast. 

Marmalade. 

Brown and White Bread and 

Butter. 
Milk Porridge. 



Luncheon. 

Eggs, Stewed with Cheese. 
Rice, with Apples and Beet- 
root. 



Dinner. 

Potato Soup. 

Broiled Steak, k la B^ar- 

naise. 
Fried Potatoes. 
Ne-svmarket Pudding. 
Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— A slice of Rump Steak, not less than one inch thick, and weighing 
from three to three and a half pounds (Marketing, January 22nd) ; Kidney 
Potatoes ; Apples ; Beetroot, 

For To-morrow.— A quart of fresh green Goosebei-ries ; Muffins (January 29th). 

Breakfast. — Sardines (January 12th); Collared Tongue (January 
2nd) ; Milk Porridge (June lath). 

Luncheon. — Eggs, Stewed with Cheese (February 10th) ; Rice, 
with Apples and Beet-root (January 28th). 

Dinner. — Potato Pur^e (January 26th) ; Broiled Steak (January 
22nd) ; B^arnaise Sauce (March 23rd) ; Fried Potatoes (February 2nd). 
Newmarket Pudding. — (!lut some slices of very thin bread and butter, 
and ^dth them three-parts fill a buttered pie-dish, and sprinkle a few 
washed currants between the layers. Make as much custard as will 
fill the dish, sweeten it, and flavour it pleasantly by boiling the milk 
with a strip of thin lemon-rind, a bay-leaf, or a small piece of 
stick cinnamon. With a pint of milk put the yolks of two eggs and 
the white of one and a tea-spoonful of corn-flour. If more eggs 
are permitted the pudding will be correspondingly improved, and 
then the corn-flour may be omitted. Bake in a well-heated oven 
till the custard is set and the pudding is lightly browned upon the 
siurface. A very pleasant variety of this pudding may be made by 
spreading a little marmalade upon the slices of bread instead of 
sprinkling currants between the layers. The name of the pudding 
will then be changed to Marmalade Bread and Butter Pudding. 
Cheese (June 8tli). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Turn and rub the beef in the brine. 

2. ]\Iake rissoles of any scraps of broiled steak that may be left 
(January 6th). They can be made to-night, and will be easily fried 
in the morning for breakfast. Also make the Gooseberry Fool (June 
24th), 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



June 3rd, 



209 



Breakfast. 

Beef Rissoles. 

Collared Tongue. 

Muffins. 

Dry Toast. | 

Brown and Wliite Bread and | 

Butter. 
Goosebei-ry Fool. | 



Luncheon. 

Savoury Meat Cake. 
Baked Plum Pudding 



Dinner. 

Fried Wliiting'. 

Loin of Mutton, Boned, 

Stuffed, and Rolled. 
Mashed Potatoes. 
Broccoli. 
Fig Pudding. 
Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— Half a pound of ??ood Beef Suet, half for the baked plum and half 
for the fig pudding ; fresh Whiting (January 17th); a Loin of Mutton, with 
as little fat as possible (the butcher should be asked to bone the joint) ; half a 
pound of Figs ; a pennyworth of Parsley ; Potatoes ; Broccoli. 

For To-morrow.— Six or eight small Soles, "slips" (see Marketing, January 3rd); 
one tin of Potted Grouse (January 7th) ; Sally Lunns ; half a bundle of 
Rhubarb. 

Breakfast. — Eissoles (January 6tli) ; Collared Tongue (January 
2nd) ; Muffins (January 30tli) ; Gooseberry Fool (June 24tli). 

Luncheon. — Savoury Meat Cake, Economical (January 26tli): 
Baked Plum Pudding (February 25tli). 

Dinner.— Fried AVhiting (January ITtli) ; Loin of Mutton, Bonsd 
and Pt oiled (April 22nd) ; Mashed Potatoes (May 12tli) ; W liite 
Broccoli (April 25th). Fig Pudding. — Cut the figs into thin slices 
and chop them finely. Chop finely a quarter of a pound of suet and 
two ounces of apples, weighed after being peeled and cored ; rub a 
quarter of a pound of stale bread through a wire sieve ; grate as 
much ginger as would fill a salt-spoon, and as much nutmeg as 
would thinly cover a threepenny-piece. Put a quarter of a pound of 
flour mto a bowl, mix the ingredients already mentioned thoroughly 
with it, and add a pinch of salt, a tea-spoonful of baking-powder, and 
two ounces of raw sugar. Beat up an e^g, and mix about haK a pint of 
milk with it; stir it, and bind the mixture together to a stiff batter. 
Turn the pudding into a greased mould that it will quite fill. Cover it 
with a cloth wrimg out of boiling water and floured, and plunge it into 
plenty of fast-boiling water. Keep it boiling gently for four hours. 
if the water boils away, add more boiling. Turn it upon a hot dish, 
and send sweetened sauce (July 19th) to table with it. Cheese 
(June 8th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Turn and rub the beef in the brine. 

2. The remains both of the baked plum pudding and of the fig 
pudding should be preserved, and can be used at luncheon to- 
morrow. 

3. Make a Rhuharh Moidd for dinner to-morrow. Wash (this time 
of the year), skin, and cut into short lengths as much rhubarb as wiU 

o 



no 



A TEAR'S COOKERY. 



fill a quart basin. Boil this gently with a gill of water, a pound of 
loaf sugar, and the strained juice and grated rind of half a lemon. 
Stir it occasionally, to prevent burning, until it has falljen. Soak half 
an ounce of gelatine in water Vv^hile the rhubarb is boiling, then dis- 
solve it with two table-spoonfuls of boiling water. Stir it into the 
rhubarb, beat it briskly for a minute or two, and add three or four 
drops of almond flavouring, and three or four drops of cochineal to 
colour it. Turn it into a mould that has been soaked in cold water, 
and put it in a cool place to set. Serve it on a glass dish, with cream, 
Devonshire cream, or custard as an accompaniment. 



June 4th, 



Breakfast. 

Baked Slips, 

Potted Grouse. 

Sally Lunns. 

Dry Toast. 

Brown and White Broad and 

Butter. 
Porridge. 



Luncheon. 

Mutton "k la Sauce Piquante. 
Sliced Padding. 



Dinner. 

Mackerel & la Maitre 

d'Hdtel. 
Beef Stewedwith Vegetable* 
New Potatoes. 
Cabbage. 
Rhubarb Mould. 
Custard. 
Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— Two or three moderate-sized Fresh Mackerel; about three 
pounds, in one piece, of the Muscle of the Leg of Beef (January 27th) ; New 
Potatoes ; Spring Cabbage. 

For To-morrow.— A pennyworth of Watercress. 



Breakfast. — Baked Slips (January 7th). Potted Grouse (January 
7th). Sally Lunns. — Prepare the Sally Lunns in all things like the 
tea-cakes (February 14th), remembering only to split them into 
three instead of into halves. Porridge (January 25th). 

Luncheon. — Mutton h, la Sauce Piquante, made of the remains of 
mutton served June 3rd (]\Iarch 30th) ; Sliced Pudding (March 6th). 

Dinner. — Mackerel, Baked, a la Maitre d'Hotel (April 15th); 
Maitre d'Hotel Sauce (May 6tli); Beef a la Jardiniere (March 
17th) ; New Potatoes (April 12th). Cahhage {Savoys, Greens, and 
Brussels Sjjrouts). — Trim away the outer leaves, cut the cabbage 
into halves through the heart, put these into a bowl, sprinkle 
a little salt upon them, and pour water gently into the crevices 
to dislodge the insects. Pour cold water all over them, and 
let them lie in it for an hour ; then wash them in two or three 
waters, and drain them in a colander. Have ready a saucepan with 
plenty of fast-boiling water in it ; throw salt into this, in the proportion 
of a table-spoonful to half a gallon of water. If the vegetables are 
old or stale a very little carbonate of soda — as much as would 
barely cover a threepenny-piece — may be added also ; but this is 
not necessary when the vegetables are young and freshly gathered 



A YEAR'fi COOKERY. 



211 



Put in the cabbage, press it down occasionally, and boil till tender. 
Do not put the lid on the saucepan during the ivhole time. Wlien done 
enough, turn it into a colander, press the water from it with the back 
of a plate, and put it into a hot tureen. Score it several times 
across the top with a knife, sprinkle pepper and salt over it, and 
serve. A small cabbage will be done enough in about twenty 
minutes ; a large one will take from half to three-quarters of an 
hour. Savoys, Turnip-tops, and Brussels sprouts may be cooked in 
the same way : that is, trimmed and cleansed, then thrown into 
plenty of fast-boiling water, and boiled with the lid off the pan till 
done enough. Sprouts, however, should be kept whole and drained 
lightly, and they should not be pressed or cut across. Khubarb 
Mould (June 3rd) ; Custard (August 10th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Turn and rub the beef in the brine. 

2. Remember that the cabbage water must not be poured down 
the sink or down any drain belonging to the house. The best way of 
getting rid of it is to pour it on the ground outside. 



June 5th, 



Breakfast. 

Ox Eyes. 

Potted Grouse. 

Hot Buttered Toast. 

Dry Toast. 

Brown and White Bread and 

Butter. 
Com Flour Milk* 



Luncheon. 



Swiss Stew. 
Baked Omelet. 



Dinner. 

Croflte au Pot. 
Veal and Ham Pie. 
New Potatoes, 
Gooseberry Fool. 
Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— Two pounds of Veal for the pie, one pound for the S^viss Stew ; 

six ounces of mild Ham ; a quart of fi-esh green Gooseberries ; a pennyrs'orth 

of German Yeast ; Potatoes. 
For To-morrow.— A tin of Pilchards ; half a pound of German Sausage ; two 

good-sized Ox-tails, ready jointed ; six ounces of good Beef Suet. 



Breakfast. — Ox Eyes. — Take some stale bread and cut it into 
slices three-quarters of an inch thick. Stamp these into rounds with 
the top of a tea-cup, and out of the middle of each one take a smaller 
round the size of the top of an egg-cup. Butter a dish that can be 
put into the oven, lay the rings in, then cover them with milk or 
cream (if sour creain is at hand it is to be preferred), and let them 
soak till soft. Drain away the milk and put a raw egg into the 
middle of each ring, sprinkle a little pepper and salt upon them, and 
put a tea-spoonful of milk on each e,gg. Bake in a hot oven until the 
whites are set, but they must not brown. If the dish on which they 
are baked cannot be sent to table, take the ox eyes up carefully with 



212 



A YEAKS COOKERY. 



a slice, lay them on a liot disli, and garnish with watercress. Potted 
Grouse (January 7th) ; Corn Flour Milk (June 19th). 

Luncheon. — Siviss Steiv. — Cut a pound of veal into neat pieces, 
season these with pepper and salt, and brown them in a little dripping 
in a stewpan. Wash and pare six large potatoes, and one onion ; cut 
them into halves, let them boil for a few minutes, then drain them, 
and put them with the veal. Mince the onion, and put it also with 
the meat, and add a tea-spoonful of vinegar, and a pint and a half of 
stock. Cover the pan closely, and simmer gently for an hour ; thicken 
the gravy with flour, let it boil up, put a table-spoonful of ketchup 
with it, and serve. Baked Omelet (August 6th). 

Dinner. — Croute an Pot (Maj^ 25th) ; Veal and Ham Pie (April 
29th); New Potatoes (April 12th); Gooseberry Fool (June 24th); 
Cheese (June 8th). " 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Boil the beef (February 23rd), and lay it between two dishes 
with a weight upon it. 

2. Preserve the liquor to make glaze to-morrow. 

3. Pastry (April 17th) is to be made to-day : Veal and ham pie 
(April 29th) ; red currant pie of bottled fruit (August 7th) ; jam 
turnovers (September 25th); also a plain cake (June 26th); and 
teacakes (August 26th). 



June 6th 



Breakfast. 


Luncheon. 


Dinner. 


PUcliarcls. 


Macaroni Cheese. 


Vermicelli Soup. 


Germau Sausage. 


Jam and Bread Pudding, 


Stewed Ox-tails. 


Teacakes. 


Economical. 


New Potatoes. 


Di-y Toast. 




Greens. 


Brown and Wliite Bread and 




Cottage Plum Pudding. 


Butter. 




Clieese. 


Marmalade. 






Porridge. 







Marketing, 

For the Day.— Half a pound of Naples Macaroni ; Potatoes ; Greens ; a penny- 
worth of Parsley ; three ounces of Vermicelli. 

For To-morrow.— A moderate-sized but thick Turbot. Moderate-sized fish are 
the best. The under-side should be of a yellowish- white colour. Tui'bot vnW 
keep for a day if lightly salted. If Lobster Sauce is wanted, a small hen 
Lobster or a little Spawn. Fishmongers generally keep the spawn on hand 
corked dowoi, and, if asked to do so, wiU send a little with the fish. A young 
Goose. Michaelmas is generally considered the time for geese, but young 
or green geese are excellent also at tliis time of the year, and they are less 
expensive than at Michaelmas. Potatoes ; Lentils ; a tin of Preserved Pine- 
. apple ; two pennyworth of Watercress, half for breakfast ; a Dried Had- 
" dock ; two Lettuces ; a half -penny worth of Beetroot, and the same of small 
Salad ; a small sugar-cured Ham (September 17th). 

Breakfast. — Pilchards (January 23rd). German Sausage. — To 
serve the German sausage, cut it into thin slices, arrange them neatly 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



2Y6 



on a dish, and garnish with parsley. Teacakes (February l4th); 
Porridge (January 25th). 

Luncheon. — Macaroni Cheese (March 20th); Jam and Bread 
Pudding, Economical (February 23rd). 

Dinner. — Vermicelli Soup (March 22nd) ; Stewed Ox-tails (May 
8th); New Potatoes (April 12th). Greens. — Follow in all respects 
the directions given for boiling cabbage (June 4th). Cottage Plum 
Pudding. — Chop very finely six ounces of beef suet, free from skin 
and sinew. Put it into a bowl, and mix with it a pinch of salt, a 
quarter of a pound of currants, picked and dried, a quarter of a 
pound of chopped raisins, two tea-spoonfuls of baking-powder, six 
ounces of flour, two ounces of stale bread that has been rubbed 
through a wire sieve, a quarter of a nutmeg grated, and three ounces 
of moist sugar. Mix the ingredients thoroughly, then make them 
into a stiff paste with two well-beaten eggs and a little milk. Wring 
a cloth out of boiling water, flour it well, turn the pudding into it, 
tie it securely, and leave room for swelling; plunge it into boiling 
water, and keep boiling for four hours. Half these quantities will be 
sufficient for a small family. Cheese (June 8th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Make the mayonnaise sauce for to-morrow, if there is none in 
the house (August 30th); bottle it, and cork it closely. 

2. Glaze the beef (March 21st). 

3. Soak a cupful of green lentils in water all night. 



Sunday, June 7th. 



Breakfast. 


Dinner. 


Tea. 


Supper. 


Pilchards. 


Boiled Turbot. 


Brown and White 


Pressed Beef. 


Fried Ham. 


Lobster Sauce or 


Bread and Butter. 


Salad. 


Tried Eggs. 


Dutch Sauce. 


Apple JeUy. 


Red Currant Tart. 


Teacakes. 


Green Goose. 


PLain Cake. 


Cheese. 


Dry Toast. 


Gooseberry Sauce. 






Watercress. 


New Potatoes. 






Brown and WTiite 


Green Lentils. 






Bread and Butter. 


Tinned Pineapple. 






Porridge. 


Cheese. 







Breakfast.— Pilchards (January 23rd) ; Fried Ham ; for this, 
take a slice, a third of an inch thick, from the middle of the hum 
bought yesterday (March 5th) ; Fried Eggs (March 5th) ; Teacakes 
(February 14th) ; Porridge (January 25th). 

Dinner. — Boiled Turbot. — Empty and cleanse the fish. To pre- 
pare turbot for boiling, scrape it from tail to head, rub a little salt on, 
wash it in two or three waters, dry it with a cloth, and rub it 
over either with lemon-juice or vinegar: this is to make it white. 
Tf there are any red spots, rub them with salt and lemon-juice. 
Leave on the fins, as they, with the gelatinous skin, are considered the 



214 .4 YEAR'S COOKERY. 



tit-bits. Make a slit through the middle of the dark side of the fish, 
to keep the white side from breaking. Place the fish on the drainer, 
and put it in plenty of boiling water, well salted and skimmed. Let 
it boil, then djaw it back, and simmer very gently till the fish is done 
enough. A moderate-sized fish will take about twenty minutes. 
Watch and skim if required. As soon as the fiesh seems to shrink 
from the bone it is done, and should be taken up immediately, as it 
will soon spoil. If not wanted immediately, it can be left on the 
drainer over the kettle, with a cloth laid over it. Serve, the white 
side up, on a hot dish covered with a napkin, and garnish with 
parsley and cut lemon ; or, if lobster sauce is served with it, a little 
lobster coral may be used for garnishing. All fish, with one excep- 
tion, may be boiled according to the directions given here : that is, 
cleaned, put into boiling salted water, boiled one minute, then drawn 
back, and simmered gently till done enough. The exception is 
mackerel, which should be put into warm, not boiling, water, for 
fear of breaking the skin. Sauces for Turhot — Lobster, Dutch, 
anchovy, shrimp, oyster, and maitre d'hotel sauces are all 
suitable accompaniments to boiled turbot ; the kind should be 
made to suit taste and convenience. Lobster sauce is perhaps 
generally preferred ; and, as already stated, a little s]xiwn can 
frequently be obtained of the fishmonger, for making it. This is not 
always the case, however, and a mistress who endeavours to provide 
for the wants of the household with a due regard \o economy 
would perhaps think it extravagant to buy a lobster for no other 
purpose than to make sauce. Jb'rom a moderate-sized hen lobster 
both lobster butter for sauce, and lobster salad might be made. 
Lobster butter, though best when fresh, will keep for a time, and 
as lobsters containing coral and spawn cannot always be had, the 
cook, when she does get any, should make a supply, so that lobster 
sauce can be made when wanted. Lobster Butter is made with both 
coral and spawn. The small beads lying under the body of the 
lobster are spawn, the deep red portions in the neck and down the 
back are coral. To make lobster butter, put the spawn on a tin 
and bake it gently for a few minutes, then pound both seeds and 
coral in a mortar with about twice the quantity of butter, and 
season with cayenne. Be careful to break the seeds. As the butter 
is precious, care should be taken not to waste even a little 
bit of it, and therefore the mortar should be carefully scraped 
out, either with a silver knife or with a piece of raw potato cut 
into the shape of a wedge. Rub the butter through a hair sieve 
with the back of a wooden spoon, and it is ready for use. To make 
Lobster Sauce^ melt an ounce of butter in a small stewpan over the 
fire. Stir in half an ounce of flour, and beat the mixture to a smooth 
paste with the back of a wooden spoon. Pour in the third of a pint 
of cold water, and stir the sauce over the fire till it thickens. Add 
pepper and salt, and a table-spoonful of cream. Boil the sauce 
again, take it off the fire, and stir in enough lobster butter to 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



215 



colour it brightly. Add a few drops of lemon-juice, and serve. If 
it is to be had, a little of the lobster flesh, chopped small, can be 
stirred into the sauce, and will be considered an improvement. 
It is, however, oftener absent than present, as the meat is generally 
wanted for other purposes. Dutch Sauce (May 14th). Anchovy 
Sauce (July 17th) ; Shrimp Sauce (January 30th) ; Oyster Sauce 
(October 16th) ; Maitre d'Hotel Sauce (May 6th). Green Goose. 
— Proceed as for Roast Goose (September 29th), but do not stufi 
the bird. Season it, however, liberally inside with pepper and salt. 
Goosehemj Sauce. — Boil unripe gooseberries, drain them, and rub 
them through a sieve. Add a pat of butter to the pulp, season with 
sugar and salt if liked, and serve. This sauce is often served with 
mackerel. New Potatoes (April 12th); Lentils (March 2nd); Tinned 
Pineapple (April 8th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 

Tea.— Plain Cake (June 26th). 

Supper. — Beef, boiled (June 5th) ; Salad (March 13th) ; Red Cur- 
rant Tart (August 7th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Preserve any cold turbot that may be left. Excellent fish cakes 
may be made of it for luncheon to-morrow. 

2. Put half a pound of Normandy pippins to soak all night in 
cold water. 

3. Also put a cupful of haricot beans to soak in cold water. 



June 8th, 



Breakfast. 

Dried Haddock. 

Pressed Beef. 

Toasted Teacakes. 

Dry Toast. 

Marmalade. 

Brown and White Bread and 

Butter. 
Com Flour Milk. 



Luncheon. 

Fisli Cakes. 
Normandy Pippins. 



Dinner. 

Oyster Soup (made of the 
liquor the turbot was 
boiled in and tinned 
oysters). 

Haricot Mutton. 

Haricot Beans. 

Young Carrots. 

New Potatoes. 

Pancakes. 

Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— A tin of Preserved Oysters ; three or four pounds of Chops from 
the Loin for Haricot Mutton ; Young Carrots ; New Potatoes ; the middle 
cut of the Silverside of Beef, weighing about eight pounds. 

For To-morrow.— Anchovies, if not in the house ; Radishes ; Watercress. 



Breakfast. — Dried Haddock (January 27th); Eeef, boiled (June 
5th) ; Toasted Teacakes (February 14th) ; Corn Flour ^lilk (June 
19th). 

Luncheon. — Fish Cakes (January 13th} ; Normandy Pippins 
(August IGth). 



216 



A YEAKS COOKERY. 



Dinner. — Oyster Soup (October 1st); Haricot Mutton (April 
13tli) ; Young Carrots (July 6th); Haricot Beans (June 20tli) ; 
New Potatoes (April 12tli); Pancakes (February 24tli). Cheese, To 
serve. — Cheese may either be brought upon the table whole or cut ; 
or, better still, it may be cut before dinner into small square pieces 
and handed round by the waiter. Fresh sweet butter, formed into 
small pats, balls, or rolls, and garnished with parsley ; pulled 
bread (August 27th), rolls, biscuits, or rusks, with watercress, celery, 
salad, radishes, or cucumber, should always be sent to table with 
cheese. If this be done, and if care and judgment be exercised in 
the selection of the cheese, the course may be made most enjoyable. 
Foreign cheeses have become very popular of late (Roquefort, 
Camembert, Gorgonzola, Neiifchatel, and Gruyere), and afford a 
most agreeable change even from the time-honoured Stilton. Small 
portions of two or three different kinds of cheese may be handed on 
the same salver. When cheese becomes hard and dry it should on 
no account be wasted, as it may be used in various ways (Index : 
Cheese, Dry, To Use). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Boil the brine with an additional handful of salt. A\Tien cold, 
put the silverside of beef into it. 

2. Make mutton pies for breakfast to-morrow of scraps of mutton 
that may be left (January 3rd). 

3. If any haricot beans remain from dinner, let them be put aside 
to make haricot salad, to be served with the pressed beef at luncheon 
to-morrow. 

4. Wash a tea-cupful of small tapioca, and let it soak all night in a 
pint of cold water. 

5. Soak also a cupful of green lentils. 



June 9th. 



Breakfast. 


Luncheon. 


Dinner. 


Mock Woodcock. 


Tressed Beef. 


Croflte au Pot. 


Mutton Pies. 


Plain Tapioca Pudding. 


Polled Ribs of Beet 


Radishes and Watercress. 




New Potatoes. 


Hot Buttered Toast. 




Cauliflower. 


Dry Toast. 




Lemon Pudding. 


BrowTi and White Bread and 




Cheese. 


Butter. 






Bread and Milk. 







Marketing. 

For the Day.— About eight pounds of the Ribs of Beef (January 10th), boned 
and rolled ; six ounces of Beef Suet ; Potatoes ; Lemons ; Cauliflower. 

For To-morrow.— Half a dozen fresh INIackercl of a moderate av/.Q (April 4Lh) ; 
half a pound of Bacon in rashers ; a two-pouiirt tin of Preserved Tomatoes ; a 
bottle of Preserved Raspberries ; Mustard and Cress for breakfast. Order 
three pennyworth of Cream for to-morrow. 



A YEARS COOKERY. 217 



Breakfast,— Mock Wocxicock (March 26th) ; Mutton Pies (Jan- 
uary 3rd) ; Radishes (^larch 12th) ; Bread and ^Milk (January 25th). 

Luncheon. — Plain Tapioca Pudding. — Put the tapioca, with 
the water in which it was soaked and a pint of milk, into a 
greased pie-dish. Throw into it half an inch of stick cinnamon 
or five or six inches of thin lemon-rind, and add a piece of butter 
about the size of a threepenny-piece. Bake in a gentle oven until 
the tapioca is transparent and the pudding is covered with a brown 
skin. It will take about three hours. Serve with sugar or jam. 

Dinner.— Croute au Pot (May 25th) ; Rolled Ribs of Beef, Roasted 
(March 4th or 8th). Gravy. — Roasted joints should be served with a 
little brown, clear, bright gravy, as free from fat as it can be 
obtained. If the gvnYj that belongs to the joint is to be served, 
the cook should, when the meat is sufficiently roasted, take up 
the dripping-tin and carefully and slowdy pour away the fat. As 
soon as brown sediment begins to run away as well as fat she 
should stop, and pour about a charter of a pint more of boiling 
water into the tin, stirring and scraping well those parts where the 
gravy has dried and become hard. When the liquor looks dark 
and rich, she should strain it through a fine strainer into a 
small stewpan, and make it hot, without absolutely allowing it 
to boil, put a pinch of salt with it, and pour it into the dish but 
not over the joint. Two or three table-spoonfuls of gravy only 
should be thus served, however, as it is most objectionable for the 
carver to have very much gravy in the dish, and the juices which 
run from the meat w4ien it is ^ut will add to the quantity as well 
as improve the Ciuahty of that which is provided. Many cooks 
pour half the gravy at their disposal into the dish, and send the 
rest in hot a few minutes later, and this course is to be recom- 
mended. Gravy will be stronger if stock instead of w^ater be 
stirred into the dripping-tin, and very often ^ what is called " gravy 
beef" is purchased to make it with. This is as extravagant as it 
is unnecessary. In a house where meat is used daily the cook can 
always, if she likes, put on one side scraps and trimmings to make 
gravy. Stock, made for the purpose beforehand, can be used instead 
of the sediment in the dripping-tin, which sediment may be allowed 
to go cold, and be used the next time gravy is wanted ; the obvious 
advantage being that in both instances the gravy can be served 
perfectly free from fat. Stock for beef gravy may be made as 
follows :— Slice a small onion, and fry it very Hghtly in a little 
butter. Pour upon it half a pint of water, and add a small pinch 
of celery-seed, a sprig of parsley, a strip of bacon-rind scalded and 
scraped,"^ and a small piece of turnip, together with scraps of meat 
or bone (the shank bone of a leg of mutton is excellent for making 
gravy). Simmer gently^ and skim carefully, till the liquor is reduced 
one-half, then strain it into a basin ; when cold, free it entirely from 
fat, and make it hot wlien wanted. Of course, if lifpior from boiled 
meat can be substituted for water in a case like this, so much the 



218 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



better. This flavoured stock would do very well for beef, but not 
for mutton ; mutton and lamb should have a tasteless gravy. New 
Potatoes (April 12th); Cauliflower (April 25th); Lemon Pudding 
(August 12tli) ; Cheese (June 8th). 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Turn and rub tlie beef in tlie brine. 

2. Pickle the mackerel for breakfast to-morrow (August 28th). 

3. See that the butcher sends home the fresh bones taken from the 
rolled beef. They must be stewed for stock (February 13th). 

4. Make the Hydropathfc Pudding for dinner to-morrow (June 
IGth). 



June lOth. 



Breakfast. 


Luncheon. 


Dinner. 


Pickled Mackerel. 


Shepherd's Pie. 


Tomato Pur^o. 


Toasted Bacon, 


Custard Sippets. 


Cold Rolled Beef. 


Miistai-d and Cress. 




Salad. 


Hot Toast. 




New Potatoes. 


Dry Toast. 




Raspberry Hydropathic 


Brown and W hite Bread and 




Pudding. 


Butter. 




Cream. 


Bread and Milk. 




Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— Two htads of Lettuce ; a pennyworth of Watercress ; a half- 
jieiinyworth of boiled Beetroot; a half-pennyworth of small Salad; New 
l*()tatoes : a pennyworth of Parsley. 

For To-morrow.— A tin of Bovill's Potted Hare (see Remarks on Potted Grouse, 
January 7th) ; Mufiins (January 29th). 

Breakfast. — Pickled Mackerel (August 28th) ; Toasted Bacon 
(January 19tli); Bread and Milk (January 25th). 

Luncheon. — Shepherd's Pie, made of the remains of the pressed 
beef (January 12th). Custard Sij^jjets. — Break an egg into a plate, beat 
it well, and put with it the third of a pint of milk, sugar and 
flavouring to taste. Cut stale bread, as much as may be required, 
into slices half an inch thick, divide them into neatly-shaped 
pieces, and soak them in the custard. Take them up_ before they 
are soft enough to break, lay them in a clean cloth with a cupful 
of flour, and shake the corners of the cloth to throw the flour over 
them, and so coat them with it. Put them carefully on a hair sieve, 
and shake it to free them from superfluous flour, and fry them in 
a frying-pan half -filled with hot fat till they are lightly browned on 
both sides. Lay them between two pieces of kitchen paper to free 
them from grease, sift white sugar thickly over them, and serve hot. 

Dinner.— Tomato Pur^e (March 11th); Salad (March 13th); 
New Potatoes (April 12th) ; Raspberry Hydropathic Pudding (June 
16th) Cheese (June 8th). 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



2ii) 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Turn and rub the beef in the brine. 

2. Turn the pieces of mackerel in the vinegar. If this is done 
daily the fish will keep for three or four days. 

3. Make the ground rice mould for luncheon to-morrow (August 
7th). 

4. Wash and soak a large cupful of hominy (Note 3, February 
10th). 



June Nth. 



Breakfast. 

Boiled Eggs. 

Potted Hare. 

Muffins. 

Dry Toast. 

Brown and White Bread and 

Butter. 
Boiled Hominy. 



Luncheon. 

Pickled Mackerel. 
Ground Rice Mould, 
Apple Jelly. 



witli 



Dinner. 

Fried Halibut. 
Eoast Leg of Lamb. 
Mint Sauce. 
New Potatoes. 
Broccoli. 
Leche Cr^me. 
Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— As many slices of Halibut, an inch thick, as are likely to be 
required. Halibut is a most excellent fish, and it is astonishing that it is not 
more popular than it is. In the north of England, indeed, it is valued 
according to its deserts ; but in the south of England it is but httle known, 
excepting to Jews, with whom it is a great favourite. Very likely it is held 
in low estimation because it is cheap. It grows to an enormous size, but 
those fish are the best which weigh from tliirty to forty pounds. It may be 
cooked in various ways, but the one which is least to be recommended is 
boiling. Fishmongers would be glad to get it if they were asked for it and 
thought there was a chance of selling it, because in spring and summer it is 
generally brought abundantly to market. In choosing it, remember that the 
same rules hold good with it as with other fish. A Leg of Lamb ; half a 
pound of Ratafias ; New Potatoes ; Broccoli ; Mint. 

For To-morrow.— A tin of Sardines (January 12th) j half a pound of 
Mushrooms. 

Breakfast.— Boiled Eggs (January 5tli) ; Potted Hare {see Potted 
Grouse, January 7th); Muffins (January 30th); Boiled Hominy 
(February 11th). 

Luncheon. — Pickled Mackerel (August 28th). Ground Rice 
Mould (August Vth).— Turn the mould upon a glass dish, and 
garnish it with bright-coloured jelly or jam. 

Dinner.— Fried Halibut (June 23rd); Roast Leg of Lamb 
(March 4th); Gravy (June 9th); Mint Sauce (March 25th); New 
Potatoes (Ar-ril 12th)'; White Broccoli (April 25th); L^che Creme 
(May 7th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Preserve any fish that may be left. It can be made into a fish 
pie for luncheon to-morrow. 

2. Turn and rub the beef in the brine. 

3. The remains of boiled hominy can be fried for breakfast 
to-morrow. 



220 



A YEAKS COOKERY. 



Breakfast. 

Sardines. 

Stewed Muskrooms. 

Dry Toast. 

Marmalade. 

Brown andWliite Bread and 

Butter. 
Fried Hominy. 



June 12th, 



Luncheon. 

Fish Pie. 
Cold Lamb. 
Mint Sauce. 
Potato Salad. 



Dinner. 

Lobster Soup, of 

Lobi-ter. 
Beef Steak Pie. 
Potatoes. 
Greens. 

Newcastle Pudding. 
Cheese. 



Fr/?ah 



Marketing; 

For the Day.— Two pounds of Rump or Buttock Steak (January 1st) ; half an 
Ox Kidney ; a quarter of a pint of Mushrooms ; a small fresh Lobster (see 
remarks on Lobster Butter, June 7th) ; a pennyworth of German Yeast for 
Scones, or Baking-powder (August 2nd) may be used; Potatoes; Greens; 
Gooseberries. 

For To-morrow.— Order a Lamb's Fry ; a pennyworth of Watercress. 



Breakfast. — Sardines (January 12tli); Stewed Muslirooms 
(March 20tli); Fried Hominy (February 12tli). 

Luncheon. — Fish Pie (see Cod Pie, January 2nd); Lamb and 
Mint Sauce served yesterday ; Potato Salad (April 12th). 

Dinner. — Lobster Soup. — Follow the recipe given May 20th, but 
use fresh lobster instead of tinned lobster, and stock made from 
rolled beef bone instead of fish stock. Beef Steak Pie (March 26th) ; 
Potatoes (April 12th); Greens {see Cabbage, To Boil, June 4th). 
Newcastle Pudding. — Butter the inside of a pint basin, and fill it 
with thin slices of stale bread and butter which have had white 
sugar and grated lemon sprinkled upon each slice. Make a custard 
by mixing half a pint of new milk with two well-beaten eggs. 
Flavour this also with lemon. Pour the custard over the bread, 
lay a buttered paper on the top, and steam it very gently for about 
an hour {see Treacle Pudding, March 28th). Turn out carefully, and 
serve with fruit or lemon syrup (March 19th). If liked, a more 
delicate pudding may be made by using sponge biscuits instead of 
bread, and then one Qgg only will be required for the custard. 
Cheese (June 8th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Turn and rub the beef in the brine. 

2. Make potted beef of any little pieces of meat that may be left 
in the pie (January 23rd). 

3. Pastry is to be made to-day (April 17th) : beef -steak pie 
(March 26th), green gooseberry pie, of fresh fruit (August 7th), 
open jam tart (August 7th); also scones (August 26th) ard seed cake 
(August 14th). 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



221 



June 13th, 



Breakfast. 

Potted Beef. 

Buttered Eggs. 

Scones. 

Dry Toast. 

Watercress. 

Brown and White Bi'ead and 

Butter. 
Milk Porridge. 



Luncheon. 

Cauliflower au Gratin. 
Baked Plum Pudding. 



Dinner. 

Milk Soup; 
Lamb's Pry. 
Bacon. 
Potatoes. 
Spring Cabbage. 
Open Jam Tart. 
Plain Eice Pudding. 
Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— A large Cauliflower ; a quarter of a, pound of Beef Suet ; a good- 
sized Lamb's Fry ; one pound of Bacon in strips ; Potatoes ; Spring Cabbage ; 
a pennyworth of Parsley. 

For To-morrow.— One or two Leverets are probably needed for a dish, but 
of course tliis must depend upon the requirements of the family. Like 
hares, leverets should be kept for awhile before being dressed. They may 
generally be bought ready for cooking, but if it is preferred to hang them 
at home it should be remembered that they will not keep long in warm 
weather. A leveret may be known by the knob on the first joint of the fore- 
leg. Two or three sets of Chickens' or Ducks' Giblets; Half a pound of 
French Chocolate ; four plump Sheep's Kidneys ; a tin of Collared Tongue 
(January 2nd) ; three heads of Lettuce ; a pennyworth of boiled Beetroot ; a 
pennyworth of Watercress ; a half-pennyworth of Small Salad ; Potatoes ; 
Cauhflower ; Asparagus ; Gherkins ; half a pint of Mushrooms, or a smaU 
tin of Champignons : Capers and Anchovies or Sardines will be needed for 
Russian ISalad; one pound of Sea Biscuits. 



Breakfast. — Potted Beef (January 23rd) ; Buttered Eggs 
(January 16th). Milk Porridge. — Boil a pint of milk. AVhilst it 
is boiling mix a table-spoonful of oatmeal smoothly with a little 
cold milk, stir the boiling milk into this, and boil it for ten 
minutes, stirring it all the time. Add a pinch of salt or a little 
sugar, if preferred, and eat with bread and butter. 

Luncheon. — Cauliflower au Gratin (April 25th); Baked Plum 
Pudding (February 25th). 

Dinner.— Milk Soup (January 3rd) ; Lamb's Fry (May 16th); 
Bacon (Liver and Bacon (January 17th); Potatoes (April 12th); 
Cabbage (June 4th) ; Open Jam Tart (August 7th) ; Plain Rice Pud- 
ding (February 24th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. When the lamb's fry is cooked, and before sending to table, put 
aside a little of the sweetbread for Russian salad to-morrow evening. 

2. If mayonnaise is not in the house, make a little and bottle it 
closely (August 30th). 

3. Turn and rub the beef in the brine. 

4. Remember that old dry cheese may be used for the cauliflower 
au gratin. 

5. Clean and blanch the giblets, so as to keep them sweet (Feb. 1st). 

6. Put the white ends of the asparagus one inch deep in cold 
water till wanted- 



222 



A YEARS COOKERY. 



Sunday, June 14th. 



Breakfast. 


Dinner. 


Tea. 


Supper. 


Fried Kidneys and 


Giblet Soup. 


Brown and White 


Russian Salad. 


Bacon. 


Civet of Leveret, 


Bread and Butter. 


Gooseberry Pie. 


Watercress. 


Potatoes. 


Apple Jelly. 


Cream. 


Scones. 


Cauliflowers. 


Seed Cake. 


Cheese. 


Dry Toast. 


Asijaragns and 






Brown and White 


Dutch Sauce. 






Bread and Butter. 


Chocolate Pudding. 






Biscuits and Milk. 


Custard. 
Cheese. 







Breakfast.— Fried Kidneys and Bacon (January 2nd) ; Scones 
(May 23rd). Biscuits and Milk. — Break up as many sea biscuits as 
are likely to be needed. Put them into a bowl, and pour boiling 
water on them to cover them ; put a plate over them, and let them 
soak for about ten minutes. Drain away the water ; put milk in 
its place and a little sugar, and serve. This dish may be served 
for the children's breakfast as a change from porridge or bread and 
milk. 

Dinner. — Giblet Soup (February 1st). Civet of Leveret. — Sup- 
posing there is one leveret, trim a quarter of a pound of bacon, and 
soak it in water for a few minutes to extract the salt. Divide the 
leveret into neat joints. Cut the bacon into inch-square pieces and 
fry them • take them up, and fry the leveret in the bacon fat. Now 
take up the leveret, put back the bacon, and add an onion, a shallot, 
a small carrot, a small turnip, a bunch of parsley, a sprig of thyme, 
and a bay-leaf. Turn all over in the frying-pan a few times ; add the 
pieces of leveret, half a pint of mushrooms neatly trimmed and 
sliced, and as much stock as will cover the meat. Let the gravy 
boil, then draw the saucepan back, and stew gently till the pieces of 
leveret are tender. They will take about an hour and a half. Add 
a table-spoonful of flour mixed to a smooth paste with water, and 
season mth salt and pepper. Put the meat on a dish ; boil the sauce, 
skim it carefully, stir a glass of dark Avine into it, strain it over the 
leveret, and serve. Potatoes (April 12th); Cauliflower (April 25th). 
Asj^aragus. — To boil AsjKtragus and Sealxde. — Asparagus is best 
when freshly cut. Scrape the stems slightly and throw them into 
cold water as they are done, but do not keep them in more than a 
minute or two. Cut the white ends evenly, to make the stalks the 
same length, and tie them in bundles with tape or rag, as twine 
would be likely to cut the stalks. Choose a stewpan large enough 
to hold the asparagus without bending the stalks. Half fill it 
with water, throw a little salt into it, skim it, and when it boils 
quickly put in the asparagus. Leave the lid off the pan, and boil 
gently tiU tender. Asparagus will need to boil from twenty to thirty 
minutes, according to the thickness, and it should be taken up as 
soon as it is done enough, or it will lose colour and flavour. Drain it, 
and lay it on a round of toast half an inch thick, well browned on both 



A YEARS COOKERY, 



223 



sides, and that has been dipped into the asparagus water. Send rich 
Melted Butter (July 17th), Oiled Biitter (that is, butter melted but not 
allowed to brown, then poured away from the curd that settles at the 
bottom, and slightly salted), Dutch sauce (May 14th), Mayonnaise 
Sauce (August 30th), or Brown Butter Sauce (February 12tli), to table 
with it. Asparagus is frequently served by itself after the joint. 
Sauce should never be poured over asparagus, but served in a tureen. 
Seakale is boiled just like asparagus, though it needs only to be 
washed and trimmed before it is boiled. When very young it will be 
done enough in about twenty minutes; large seakale will require 
boiling from half an hour to three-quarters. Melted butter may, 
if liked, be poured over the seakale in the tureen. Chocolate 
Pudding (July 24th) ; Custard (August 10th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 

Tea. — Seed Cake (August 14th). 

Supper. — Russian Salad (April 5th) ; Gooseberry Pie (August 7th). 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Turn and rub the beef in the brine. 

2. Preserve all the bones and trimmings of the leveret. Excellent 
soup may be made of them for to-morrow. 

3. If any asparagus is left it can be cooked with eggs for breakfast 
to-morrow, instead of savoury eggs (May 4th). 



June 15th, 



Breakfast. 

Savoury E?gs. 

Collared Tongue. 

Scones. 

Di-y Toast. 

Brown and White Bread and 

Butter. 
Milk PoiTidge. 



Luncheon. 

Macaroni and Tongue. 
Cake Pudding. 



Dinner. 

Leveret Soup. 

Boiled Beef. 

Young Carrots. 

Potatoes. 

Corn-flour Blancmange. 

Lemon Syi-up. 

Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— Half a pound of Macaroni ; Carrots; Potatoes; an Ox-cheek. 
For To-morrow.— Six or eight small Soles, " Slips," for breakfast (Janviary 3rd); 
Watercress. Order three pennyworth of Cream. 

Breakfast.— Savoury Eggs (January 1st); Collared Tongue 
(January 2nd) ; Scones (May 23rd) ; Milk Porridge (June 13th). 

Luncheon. — Macaroni and Tongue. — Follow the recipe given for 
macaroid and ham (April 3rd), using a slice of collared tongue 
instead of ham. Cake Pudding (February 4th). 

Dinner. — Leveret Soiq^- — Follow in all respects the directions 
given for making hare soup (January 19th). Boiled Beef (February 
23rd) ; Young Carrots (July 6th) ; Potatoes (April 12th). Corn- 
flow Blancmange. — Measure one pint of milk ; put two ounces 



224 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



of corn-flour into a basin, and mix it smoothly with a little of the 
cold milk. Put what is left of the milk, with an ounce of sugar, 
into a saucepan, and make it hot without letting it boil. ^Mix the 
corn-flour with it, and stir it well till it thickens, and five minutes 
afterwards put two or three drops of almond or vanilla flavouring 
v/ith the corn-flour ; turn it into a damp mould, and put it into a cool 
place till wanted. Serve it upon a glass dish, and garnish it with jam 
or with a compote of fresh fruit (August 5th). If the mould is 
flavoured with lemon, lemon syrup coloured with cochineal may be 
poured round it. Lemon Syrup (March 19th); Cheese (June 8th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Cleanse the ox-cheek {see Note 5, February 6th). _ 

2. Boil the brine, and when it is cold put the cheek into it. 

3. j\Iake a rhubarb mould (June 3rd) for dinner to-morrow. 

4. When the beef comes from table, take the marrow from the 
bone. 

5. Put a cupful of green lentils to soak in cold water all night. 

6. Make Rice amlBarleij Porridge ioT breakfast. To do this, wash 
a quarter of a pound of rice and a quarter of a pound of Scotch 
barley, and stew them very gently in two quarts of water till they 
are quite soft. They will take two or three hours. Turn into a dish, 
and before serving them to-morrow boil up again with a little milk, 
and sugar or treacle to taste. If a little cream can be served with 
this porridge it will be very agreeable. 

7. See Note 2, January 3rcl. 



June 16th 



Breakfast. 

Marrow Toast. 

Baked Slips. 

Dry Toast. 

Watercress. 

Brown and Wliite Bread and 

Butter. 
Eice and Barley Porridge. 



Luncheon, 

Cold Boiled Beef. 

Salad. 

Plain Sago Pudding. 



Dinner, 

Lentil Soup. 

Mutton Chops, with 

Piquante Sauce. 
Potatoes. 
Ehubarb Mould. 
Cream. 
Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— Two heads of Lettuce ; a half -pennyworth of Beetroot ; ditto of 
Small Salad ; a pennyworth of Endive ; three or four pounds of the best end 
of a Loin of Mutton (Marketing, April 30th) ; Potatoes. 

For To-morrow.— Bottled Red Currants. 

Beeakfast. — Marrow Toast (January 21st) ; Baked Slips 
(January 7th) ; Porridge made yesterday. 

Luncheon.— Beef served yesterday ; Salad (March 13th) ; Plain 
Sago Pudding (March 9th). 



A TEAKS COOKERY. 



225 



Dinner. — Lentil Soup (April 1st), to be made of the beef liquor 
if it is not too salt; Mutton Chops, with Piquante Sauce (April 
30th); Rhubarb Mould (June 3rd) ; Potatoes (April 12th); Cheese 
(June 8th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Turn and rub the cheek in the brine. 

2. Make hydropathic red currant pudding for dinner to-morrow. 
Il/jdropathic Pudding may be made with fruit of all kinds, fresh or 
bottled. If fresh fruit is used, it must be stewed with water and 
sugar until it is about as much cooked as it would be in a fruit pie. 
If bottled hvQ% is used, the syru^) only should be boiled with 
sugar, and the fruit simmered in it for a minute or two. Take some 
stale iDread, Cut a round piece the size of half-a-crown and lay it at 
the bottom of a basin, and arrange around it strips or fingers of 
bread about half an inch wide, remembering to leave a space the 
width of the finger between the strips. When the fruit is ready, 
and while it is still hot, put it in a spoonful at a time, so as not to 
displace the bread, and, as a further means to this end, put the 
heavier part of the fruit — the pulp and skin and stones, if there are 
any— at the bottom of the mould, and the juice last of all. Cover 
the top entirely with stale bread cut into very small dice ; lay a 
plate on the pudding, put a weight on the plate, preserving the 
juice that rises above the plate, and set the pudding in a cool 
place till wanted. If it is well pressed down it will turn out in a 
shape, and will be found an excellent pudding. This dish is thus 
named because it is served at the hydropathic establishments as a 
substitute for fruit pies and tarts, as pastry is not considered 
wholesome. In cold weather it will turn out if it is made three or 
four hours before it is wanted, but in warm weather it needs to 
be made overnight. 

3. Preserve the bones from the mutton chops. Stewed with the 
bones from the breast of veal served to-morrow, they will make 
(excellent stock (February 13th). 



June 17th, 



Breakfast. 


Luncheon. 


Dinner. 


Fried Ham. 


Bubble aud Squeak. 


Fried Plaice. 


Tried Eggs. 
Dry Toast. 


Savoury Eice. 


Dutcb Sauce. 

Rolled Breast cf Veal. 


Marmalade, 




Potatoes. 


Brown and Wliite Bread 




Spinach. 


aud Butter. 




Hydropathic Eed Ciu-rant 
Pudding. 


Milk Toast 








Cream or Custard. 






Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— A thick Plaice (April 21st) ; the fishmonger should be asked to 
fillet the fish, A Breast of Veal ; the butcher should be asked to bone th« 



226 A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



meat. One pound of Bacon, cut into rashers (half for to-day and half for to- 
morrow) ; Suet, for forcemeat ; Potatoes ; Spinach ; a pennyworth of Parsley. 
Ham bought Jmie 6th is supposed to be in the house. 
For To-moiTOW.— A tin of Prawns. 



Breakfast.— Fried Ham (March 5tli) ; Fried Eggs (March 5th). 
Milk Toast— Tosist lightly and butter as much stale bread as is 
likely to be needed. Have ready boiling milk to fill the dish. 
Season it with salt ; stir a small piece of butter in till melted ; 
lay the toast on a flat dish, pour the milk over, and serve. The 
children might, for a change, like to have marmalade spread on the 
toast instead of butter. 

Luncheon.— Bubble and Squeak (January 22nd). _ Savoury Rice. 
— Wash a small tea-cupful of rice, drain it, and put it into a stewpan, 
with an onion, a carrot, a pint of nicely-flavoured stock, and a small 
piece of butter. Let it stew gently till it has absorbed the liquor. 
Make a custard with three-quarters of a pint of milk and one Q,gg. 
Put this with the rice, add a table-spoonful of chopped parsley, a 
shallot finely minced, and season with pepper and salt. Put the rice 
into a buttered dish, and bake in a gentle oven till it is covered with 
a brown skin. The rice will be very good if it is simply boiled in the 
stock till tender, and then served. 

Dinner.— Fried Plaice (April 21st) ; Dutch Sauce (May 14th). 
Rolled Breast of Veal. — Lay the boned breast on a table, and spread 
veal forcemeat evenly upon it (June 27th). Roll it up very tightly, 
and bind it round and round with tape. Wrap it in a greased paper, 
and bake it in a moderate oven. Baste it frequently over the 
paper. Half an hour before it is taken up remove the paper, that 
it may brown. Serve it on a hot dish, and garnish it with thin 
slices of fried bacon and cut lemon. Pour a little brown gravy 
(June 28th) over it, and send more to table in a tureen. Half an hour 
per pound should be allowed for baking. Potatoes (April 12th); 
Spinach (May lOth) ; Pudding made yesterday ; Custurd (August 
10th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Turn and rub the ox-cheek in the brine. 

2. Stew the mutton and veal bones for stock. 

3. Partially prepare the rice milk for breakfast. Wash half & 
pound of rice, and put it into a saucepan, with a little salt and a 
quart of water. Let it boil very gently for an hour and a quarter.. 
Turn it into a bowl, and leave it till morning. 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



227 



June 18th. 



Breakfast. 

Prawus. 

Collared Tongue. 

Hot Buttered Toast. 

Dry Toast. 

Houey. 

Brown and White Bread and 

Butter. 
Rice Milk. 



Luncheon. 

Baked Mackerel, k laMaitre 

d' Hotel. 
Gingerbread Pudding. 



Dinner, 

Victoria Soup. 
Minced Veal. 
Fried Bacon. 
Potatoes. 
Cauliflower. 
Wyvern Puddings. 
Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— Two moderate-sized Mackerel (April 4th) ; Potatoes ; Cauli- 
flower. 

For To-morrow.— A dried Haddock; a quarter of a pound of German 
Sausage. Order a Lamb's Fry and four plump young Pigeons. Mustard 
and Cress. 

Breakfast. — Prawns (February "7tli) ; Collared Tongue served 
June ]5tL Rice Milk. — ^^Take the rice that has been already boiled 
in water. Let it boil up in a pint and a haK of milk, sweeten it to 
taste with honey or sugar, and serve. 

Luncheon.— Baked Mackerel (April 15th) ; Gingerbread Pudding 
(May 20th). 

Dinner.— Victoria Soup (February 9th) ; Minced Veal (May 
11th); Fried Bacon (January 2nd); Potatoes (April 12th); 
Cauliflower (April 25th); Wyvern Puddings (May 9th); Cheese 
(June 8th). 



Things that must not be Forgotteno 

1. Turn and rub the ox-cheek in the brine. 

On no account allow the mince to boil in the gravy. 



June 19th. 



Breakfast. 



Dried Haddock. 

German Sausage. 

Hot Buttered Toast. 

Dry Toast. 

Mustard and Cress. 

Brown and White Bread and 

Butter. 
Corn-flour Milk. 



Luncheon. 

Lamb's Fry. 

Plain Rolled Pudding, with. 
Treacle. 



Dinner. 



Cre'cy Soup. 
Pigeon Pie. 
Potatoes. 
Spring Cabbage. 
Queen's Pudding, 
Cheese. 



Marketing. 
For the Day.— A Lamb's Fry ; a pound and a half of Rump Steak, an inch 

thick, for the pigeon pie; Potatoes; Spring Cabbage; a pennyworth of 

fresh German Yeast. 
For To-morrow.— A tin of Bovill's Potted Pheasant ; a tin of Pilchards ; a 

Cow's Heel, from the tripe shop. 



228 A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



Breakfast. — Dried Haddock (January 27tli) ; German Sausage 
(June 6tli). Corn-flour Milk. — Put a little lemon-rind or a laurel- 
leaf into a pint of milk, and set it by the side of the fire till it 
is nicely flavoured, then bring it to the boil. Beat two table- 
spoonfuls of flour to a smooth paste with half a tea-cupful of 
milk, and add two well-beaten eggs. Stir the boiling milk into 
the corn-flour, return the whole to the saucepan, let the preparation 
boil once more, and stir it over the fire five minutes afterwards. 
Sweeten with honey, sugar, or treacle, and serve. 

Luncheon. — Lamb's Fry (May 16th) ; Plain Rolled Pudding 
(March 16th). 

Dinner. — Cr(5cy Soup (January 5th); Pigeon Pie (May 15th); to 
be made with pastry to-day; Potatoes (April 12th) ; Spring Cabbage 
(June 4th) ; Queen's Pudding (August 9th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Turn and rub the ox-cheek in the brine. 

2. Pastry is to be made to-day (April 17th); Pigeon pie (May 
I5th); jam tarts (August 7th); lemon cheesecakes (August 18th)- 
open jam tart (August 7th) ; also Vienna bread (AugTist 26th) ; and 
rice cake (August 2nd). Rough PufF Paste (May 29th) vdll be 
v^ery good for the pigeon pie. What is called Short Crust is very 
good for pies and tarts. The difi'erence between Puff Paste and 
Short Crust is this : in Puff Paste the butter and flour are not 
mixed together, but are kept separate in thin layers. In Short 
Crust the butter and flour are intermixed by kneading. Short 
Crust is of two qualities: one for superior pastry, and the other 
for household pastry. To Make Superior Short Crust. — Put six 
ounces of flour on a board, and rub four ounces of butter into it till 
it looks like fine oatmeal. Mix in a very small pinch of salt and an 
ounce of fine white sugar. Make a well in the centre of the flour, and 
put into it the yolk of an Qgg, two drops of lemon-juice, and a large 
table-spoonful of cold water. Yolk of Qgg and lemon-juice help to 
make the paste workable. Mix the whole to a smooth stiff paste with 
two fingers ; knead the paste lightly, and keep the board and the 
fingers floured, to prevent their being sticky. Fold the paste over, 
and roll it once only to the size and thickness that is needed. 
Economical Short Crust. — Put a pound of flour into a bowl, with a 
pinch of salt and a heaped tea-spoonful of baking-powder ; mix 
thoroughly, then rub in six ounces of clarified di'ipping ; add water 
to make a stiff paste, roll out once, and use. 

3. Put a cupful of white haricot beans to soak all night ix\ coIU 
water. 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



June 20th. 



Breakfast. 

Pilcliards. 

Potted Pheasant. 

Vienna Bread. 

Dry Toast. 

Brown and White Bread au d 

Butter. 
Oatmeal Porridge. 



Luncheon. 

Cow's Heel, with Parsley 

Sauce. 
Custard Sippets. 



Dinner. 

Croflte au Pot. 
Haricot Mutton. 
Haricot Beans. 
Potatoes. 

Roly-poly Pudding. 
Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— The best end of a neck of Mutton ; six ounces of Beef Suet, for 

roly-poly ; a pennyworth of Parsley. 
For To-morrow.— A rather small Turbot ; ask the fishmonger to fillst the fish 

before sending it home (January 3rd and June 6th). Half a pint of 

Shrimps, for sauce ; a couple of Ducklings ; Green Peas, if not too expensive. 

Choose ducldings with plump, firm breasts. A tin of Salmon, or a pound or 

two of Fresh Salmon, for supper ; Ingredients for Salad. 

Breakfast. — Pilchards (January 23rd) ; Potted Pheasant 
Uee Potted Grouse, January 7th) ; Vienna Bread (August 26th) ; 
Oatmeal Porridge (January 25th). 

Luncheon. — Cow's Heel, with Parsley Sauce (February 20th) ; 
Custard Sippets (June 10th). 

Dinner. — Croiite au Pot (May 25th) ; Haricot Mutton (April 
13th). Haricot Beans, Boiled. — ^Drain the beans, and put them 
in a saucepan with plenty of cold water, slightly salted. Let them 
boil gently till tender, but not pulpy. They will take about two 
hours. Pour away the water, and let the beans stand by the fire a 
minute or two, shaking them once or twice, to dry them. Put a little 
piece of butter with them and a little pepper and salt, and serve 
them as hot as possible. For a change, the beans when drained 
may be put into a stewpan, with a slice of butter, pepper, salt, a 
table-spoonful of lemon-juice, and a table-spoonful of chopped 
parsley; or an ounce of butter may be melted, mixed smoothly 
with half an ounce of flour, a quarter of a pint of stock or water, 
and a table-spoonful of parsley, and the beans may be shaken over 
the fire in this sauce. Still another change may be made by chop- 
ping one or two onions very finely, then frying them in a little 
butter, mixing them with the boiled beans, and moistening the 
whole with a spoonful or two of gravy. It must not be for- 
gotten that any haricot beans that are left will be excellent served 
as a salad. If it should happen that they have not been soaked over- 
night, they may still be prepared for dinner, care being taken to 
throw half a cupful of cold water in with them every half hour 
whilst they are boiling. In this case they will not need to boil much 
longer than they would if soaked. Potatoes (April 12th) ; Ptoly-poly 
Pudding' (August 18th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 



230 



A YEARS COOKERY. 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Turn and rub tlie ox-clieek in the brine. 

2. Boil what remains of the Canadian ham {see Note 4, May 
27th). 

3. Cleanse the goose giblets (February 1st) ; and fry them in a little 
butter ; this will keep them good till June 22nd. 

4. Soak a breakfast-cupful of hominy in water all night (Feb- 
ruary 10th). 

5. Preserve the liquor in which the cow-heel is boiled for soup on 
June 22nd. 



Sunday, June 21st, 



Breakfast. 


Dinner. 


Tea. 


Supper. 


Boiled Eggs. 


Filleted Tiirbot. 


Brown and White 


Pickled Salmon. 


Boiled Ham. 


Shrimp or Lobster 


Bread Pudding. 


Salad. 


Vienna Bread. 


Sauce. 


Damson Jam. 


Open Jam Tart. 


Dry Toast. 


Roast Ducklings. 


Cheesecakes. 


Cheese. 


Brown and VVliite 


New Potatoes. 






Bread and Butter. 


Green Peas or 






Marmalade. 


Spinach. 






Boiled Hominy. 


Hayi-ick Puddings. 
Cheese. 







Breakfast.— Boiled Egg.s (January 5th) ; Ham boiled yesterday; 
Vienna Bread (August 26th) ; Boiled Hominy (February 11th). 

Dinner. — Filleted Turbot. — Divide the fillets into neat pieces 
about the size of two fiingers, dry them, season them, pepper and salt 
them, and put them, side by side, in a frying-pan, with a slice of 
butter melted and a tea-spoonful of lemon-juice. Put them over the 
fire for a few minutes, and turn them over when they are half cooked. 
They w^ll take about ten minutes. Drain them on kitchen paper ; 
arrange them in a circle on a dish, pour the shrimp sauce over 
them, and place a little fried parsley (January 13th) in the 
centre. If more convenient, the fillets can be baked in the oven. 
Shrimp Sauce (January 30th) ; Lobster Sauce (June 7th) ; Boast 
Ducklings (July 26th); New Potatoes (April 12th); Green Peas 
(July 12th) ; Spinach (May 10th) ; Hayrick Puddings (March 19th) ; 
Cheese (June 8th). 

Tea. — Lemon Cheesecakes (August 18th). 

SUPPEP.— Pickled Salmon (May 30th) ; Salad (March 13th) ; Open 
Tart Jam (August 7th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. When the pickled salmon is brought from the table, put it in 
the vinegar till wanted again. 

2. Preserve any hominy that may be left ; it can be fried for 
breakfast to-morrow. 



A YEARS COOKERY. 



231 



June 22nd, 



Breakfast. 


Luncheon. 


Dinner. 


Pickled Salmon, 


Cauliflower au Gratin. 


Gravy Soup. 


BoUed Ham. 


Lemon Cheesecakes. 


Braised Loin of Lamb. 


Vienna Breaxi. 


Rice Pudding. 


New Potatoes. 


Dry Toast. 




Spinach. 


Honey. 




Queen's Pudding. 


Brown and Wliite Bread and 




Cheese. 


Butter. 






Fried Hominy. 







Marketing. 

For the Day.— A large Cauliflower or White Broccoli ; a Loin of Lamb (May 
22nd) ; New Potatoes ; Spinach ; six or eight pounds of the thin Flank 
of Beef, cut square, and with as little fat as possible. 

Breakfast. — Pickled Salmon (May SOth) ; Ham, boiled (June 
20tli) ; Vienna Bread (August 26th) ; Fried Hominy (February 12tli). 

Luncheon. — Cauliflower au Gratin (April 25tli) ; Lemon Cheese- 
cakes (August 18th) ; Eice Pudding (February 24th). 

Dinner. — Gravy Soup (August 31st) ; Braised Loin of Lamb 
(May 22nd); New Potatoes (April 12th); Spinach (May 10th); 
Queen's Pudding (August 9th); Cheese (June 8th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Take up the ox-cheek and boil it (April 6th). 

2. BoU the brine (January 13th) ; let it go cold, then put the thin 
flank of beef into it. 

3. If the boiled ham is nearly finished, cut the meat from the 
bone, mince it as finely as possible, and put it between two plates to 
keep it moist, ready for to-morrow morning. 



June 23rd. 



Breakfast. 



Ox-cheek. 

Ham Toast. 

Dry Toast. 

Brown and White Bread and 

Butter. 
Marmalade. 
Milk Porridge. 



Luncheon. 

Eargs, Stewed with Cheese. 
Baked Batter Pudding, with 
Jam. 



Dinner, 



Hfthhut Cutlets. 
Rolled Steak, with Force- 
meat. 
Potatoes. 
Cabbage. 

Macaroni Pudding. 
Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— About four pounds of Halibut from a large fish ; ask the 

fishmonger to divide the fish into slices three-quarters of an inch thick 

(June 11th). A slice of Beef, weighing about three pounds, and from an inch 

to an inch and a half thick, cut from the middle of the rump ; a quarter of a 

Sound of Suet, for forcemeat; Potatoes; Cabbage; six ounces of Naples 
lacaroni. 
For To-naorrow.— A pennyworth of Watercress. (Sea Biscuits if lequired). 



232 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



Breakfast.— Ox-clieek (April 6tli) ; Ham Toast (March 28tli) ; 
Milk Porridge (June 13tli). 

Luncheon. — Eggs, Stewed with Cheese (Februaiy loth) ; Baked 
Batter Pudding (February 5th). 

Dinner. — Halibut Cutlets. — Dry the fish and flour it well. Put it 
into a frying-pan half full of boiling fat, and when it is done enough 
upon one side turn it to the other with a slice. It will take from ten 
to twelve minutes. Drain it upon paper, and serve, with brown 
iDutter sauce (February 12th) poured over it. If liked, the slices can 
be dipped in a thin batter of flour and water, or they can be sprinkled 
over with lemon-juice before being fried. Rolled Steak. — Lay the steak 
flat on the table, season it with pepper and salt, and lay at one end a 
roll of nicely-flavoured forcemeat {see June 27th). Roll the steak 
tightly round and round, and bind it securely across and at _ the 
ends with twine, to prevent the forcemeat escaping. ^Melt a little 
butter in a stewpan, put in the steak, and turn it about till it is 
browned equally all over. Pour upon it as much stock as will half 
cover it, and stew it gently for two hours. Turn it over when it 
is half cooked. Thicken the gravy by adding a table-spoonful of 
corn-flour mixed to a smooth paste with water ; boil the sauce, and 
add a few drops of sugar browning, and pepper and salt to taste. 
Put the rolled beef on a hot dish, strain part of the gravy over it 
and the rest into a tureen, and serve very hot. If liked, the meat 
can be covered with a greased paper and baked in the oven, instead of 
being stewed. It will then need to be basted well, and twenty minutes 
before it is served the greased paper will have to be removed, and 
the beef floured and basted, in order to brown it. Twenty minutes 
per pound must be allowed for roasting. Potatoes (April 12th) ; Cab- 
bage (June 4th) ; Macaroni Pudding (March 27th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Turn and rub the thin flank of beef in the brine. 

2. Save any halibut that may be left for fish cakes to-morrow. 

3. Piemember when boiling the cabbage to ijour the cabbage 
water not down the sink, but upon the ground outside the house. 

June 24th. 



Breakfast. 


Luncheon. 


Dinner. 


Buttered Eggs. 

Ox-cheek. 

Hot Toast. 

Dry Toast. 

Watercress, 

Brown and Wliite Bread and 

Butter. 
Biscuits and Milk. 


Fisli Pie. 
Gooseberry Fool, 


Potato Soup. 

Loin of Mutton, Boned, 

Rolled, and Stuii'ed. 
Potatoes. 
Cauliflower. 
Golden Pudding. 
Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— One povmd of Green Gooseberries; Old Potatoes, to mash for the 
fish pie and potato soup; the best end of a not very fat Loin of j\Iutton; the 



A YEARS COOKERY. 



23.3 



butcher should be asked to bone the joint. Cauliflower ; New Potatoes ; six 
ounces of Beef Suet, f oi* pudding ; a pennyworth of Parsley. 
For To-morrow.— A tin of Sardines (Janviary 12th) ; Potted Hare {see Potted 
Grouse, January 7th) ; Muffins (January 29th). 

Bee AKFAST.— Buttered Eggs (January 16tli); Ox-clieek (April 
6tli) ; Biscuits and Milk (June 14tli). 

Luncheon. — Fisli Pie {see Cod Pie, January 2ud). Gooseberry 
Fool. — Take the tops and tails from the gooseberries, and put them 
into a stewpan, with a cupful of cold water and half a pound of 
sugar. Let them stew gently until quite soft. Ptub them through a 
colander or coarse sieve with the back of a wooden spoon, so as 
to get the pulp and keep back the skins, _ which must be thrown 
away. Let the pulp go quite cold, then mix with it gradually cold 
milk, to make the pulp the thickness of cream. Taste, and add 
more sugar if not sufficiently sweet for the taste, but the fool will be 
more refreshing if slightly acid. This dish, though old-fashioned, is 
very wholesome and a general favourite. It is very palatable and 
generally acceptable served with bread and butter as a breakfast dish 
for children. If a richer dish is required, cream, or half cream and 
half milk, may be used instead of milk only; but the preparation is 
excellent made with milk only. 

Dinner. — Potato Soup (January 26th) ; Loin of Mutton, Boned 
and Boiled (April 22nd) ; Potatoes (April 12th) ; Cauliflower (April 
25th) ; Golden Pudding (May 4th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Turn and rub the beef in the brine. 

2. Prepare the rice and barley porridge for breakfast (Note 6, 
June 15th). 

June 25th. 



Breakfast. 


Luncheon. 


Dinner. 


Sardines. 


Cold Mutton. 


Boiled Brill. 


Potted Hare. 


Salad. 


Neapolitan Sauce. 
Beef-steak Pudding, witb 


Muffins. 


Stewed Rhubarb. 


Dry Toast. 




Mushrooms. 


Brown and White Bread and 




Potatoes. 


Butter. 




Custard Blancmange. 


Marmalade. 




Almond Syrup. 


Rice and Barley Porridge. 




Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— Two heads of Lettuce ; a half -penny worth of Beetroot, a half- 
pennyworth of Small Salad ; a pennyworth of Watercress ; half a bundle of 
Rhubarb; a Brill (January 9th) ; two pounds of tender Steak and half an 
Ox Kidney (see January 1st). The undercut of a sirloin of beef would mako 
an excellent pudding, or instead of buttock steak a tender slice from a round 
might be taken, though it would be well to beat it lightly with the rolling-pin 
before cutting it up. Besides kidneys, a dozen mushrooms, fresh oysters, 
when they are in season (or, for economy's sake, tinned oysters), or chopped 
ehallot and parsley, may be added to beef-steak pudding or pie ; or, when 



231 A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



game is plentiful, the addition of a partridge or a grouse, well cleaned and 
cut in pieces, will be found a great improvement, l^cef Suet for the pudding, 
six, eight, or ten ounces, according to the degree of richness required. 
For To-morrow.— Four fresh Mackerel. Order to be sent in the morning a 
Shoulder of Mutton, not too fat (January 17th). 

Breakfast. — Sardines (January 12th) ; Potted Hare (see Potted 
Grouse, January 7tli); Muffins (January 30tli); Pice and Barley 
Porridge (Note 6, June 15th). 

Luncheon. — Mutton served yesterday ; Salad (ISIarch 13th) ; 
Stewed Rhubarb (May 19th). 

Dinner. — Boiled Brill (January 9th) • Neapolitan Sauce (Feb- 
ruary 8th). Beefsteak Puddiiig.— Put the meat, with only a small 
allowance of fat, on a board, trim away the skin, and cut it into neat 
slices convenient for serving. Flour the pieces well, and season each 
one with pepper and salt. If mushrooms are used, they should have 
the stems cut away and be skinned, and, if large, be cut into neat 
pieces, then rinsed quickly in cold water, drained, and laid between 
the folds of a soft cloth to dry. If oysters are used, they should be 
put into a ste"«T3an, with their liquor, and barely brought to the boil. 
The liquor should then be strained from them to be mixed with the 
gravy from the pudding, and the beards and hard parts of the oysters 
should be cut away. Parsley or shallot should be finely chopped. 
To onake Suet Crust for Meat Puddings, Roly-poly Puddings, 
Fruit Dumplings, dx. — Weigh one pound of flour, and also six, 
eight, or ten ounces of suet, whichever is approved. Very good 
suet crust may be made with six ounces of suet if a tea-spoonful 
of baking-powder is also introduced. Of course the larger the quan- 
tity of suet used the richer will be the pastry. Trim away all the 
skin and chop the suet (March 14th). Mix it with the flour, add a 
pinch of salt and baking-powder, if it is to be used ; then mix in 
thoroughly enough cold water to make a sti^ paste. Sprinkle flour 
on the board and on the rolling-pin, to keep the paste from sticking. 
Take one-third of the pastry and set it aside for the cover. Choose a 

Eudding-basin that will hold about three pints (one with a rim is to 
e preferred). Pvoll the pastry till it is twice the size of the ^ top of 
the pudding and about a third of an inch thick. Line the basin with 
the paste, and with a floured knife trim it evenly with the edge of the 
basin. Put in the meat, with the kidney, mushrooms, oysters, or 
whatever is to be used, and pour in with it a small cupful of gravy or 
water, and wet the edge of the basin with cold water. _ Lay on the 
cover and press the edges well together. Wring a i)udding-cloth out 
of boiling water, flour it well, lay it over the top of the basin, and 
tie it on firmly round the rim. Turn the corners back and pin 
them over the top, plunge the pudding into boiling water, and keep 
it boiling until done enough. This pudding, which will be a good- 
sized one, will take four hours to boil ; a smaller pudding will 
need three hours and a half. When taken up, and before at- 
tempting to turn the pudding out, hold the bottom of the basin in 
cold water for half a minute, put a dish on the top, and turn the 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



235 



basin gently over. These instructions may be followed in making 
all kinds of boiled fruit dumplings, substituting, of course, fruit and 
sugar for the meat and gravy. Potatoes (April 12th) ; Custard 
Blancmange (August 4th). Almond Syrup— lsidk.Q a syrup by boiling 
together loaf sugar and water, and flavour it by adding two or three 
drops of essence of almonds. Cheese (June 8th). 

Things that nmst not be Forgotten. 

1. If any beef-steak pudding is left, carefully preserve it ; it wiU 
be excellent warmed up for luncheon to-morrow. 

2. Pickle the mackerel bought this morning (August 28th). 

3. Turn and rub the beef in the brine. 



June 26th. 



Breakfast. 


Luncheon. 


Dinner. 


Pickled Mackerel. 


Beef-steak Pudding, 


Bisqiie Soup. 


Potted Hare. 


warmed. 


Roast Shoulder of Mutton. 


Hot Buttered Toast. 


Savoury Kice. 


Onion Sauce. 


Dry Toast. 




New Potatoes. 


iJrown and White Bread and 




Cauliflower. 


Butter. 




Newmarket Pudding. 


Marmalade. 




Cheese. 


Bread and Milk. 







Marketing. 

For the Day. — A small Crab ; Potatoes ; Cauliflower; Onions; Gooseberries; 

bottled Cherries. 
For To-morrow.— Half a pint of Mushrooms. 

Breakfast. — Pickled Mackerel (August 28th) ; Potted Hare 
{see Potted Grouse, January 7th) ; Bread and Milk (January 25th). 

Luncheon. — Beef-steak Pudding, ivarmed. — Butter the inside of 
a small clean basin, and lay the cold pudding in it. Tie a cloth 
over the top, and place a plate on that. Put the basin in a stewpan 
one-third filled with boiling water ;_ cover the pan, and steam the 
pudding till it is quite hot. It will take about an hour. Serve 
on a hot dish, with a little fresh gravy, if it is to be had. 
Savoury Ptice (June 17th). 

Dinner.— Bisque Soup (October 17th) ; Boast Shoulder of jMutton 
(March 4th); Gravy (June 9th) ; Onion Sauce (October 14th); New 
Potatoes (April 12th) ; Cauliflower (April 25th) ; Newmarket Pud- 
ding (June 2nd) ; Cheese (June 8th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Turn and rub the beef in the brine. 

2. When the mackerel is taken from the breakfast-table, turn it 
over in the vinegar before putting it away. If this is done, and if it 
is kept in a cool place, it will keep for several days. 

3. Pastry is to be made to-day (April 17th): Gooseberry pie, 



236 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



cherry pie of bottled fruit (August 7th), treacle tart ; also scones 
(August 26th) and plain cake. A very Good Cheap Ca/je may 
be made as follows: — Put a pound of flour into a bowl, with a 
pinch of salt and a dessert-spoonful of baking-powder. Rub 
in four ounces of butter, dripping, or lard, the latter being the 
least desirable. A mixture of butter and dripping is to be pre- 
ferred. When the flour looks like fine oatmeal, and is quite 
free from lumps, add four ounces of moist sugar, half a pound 
of currants picked and dried, an ounce of candied peel chopped 
small, and a quarter of a nutmeg grated. Mix thoroughly and 
beat to a stiff paste with milk or water. One great secret of 
making plain cakes light is to mix them stiffiy, as both sugar and 
shortening when melted help to moisten the cake. Very much, too, 
depends upon the baking. Small cakes should be put into a brisk 
oven to begin with, to make them rise, but the heat should not be 
increased after they^ have begam to bake, or the outer portions will be 
burnt while the inside is pasty. Large cakes need a moderate oven, 
in order that they may be baked through. A cake is done enough 
when a skewer plunged into the centre of it comes out clean. When 
done enough, the cake should be turned out of the tin and put on its 
side, leaning against something till cold. This will keep it from be- 
coming heavy. (To clean Currants, see Note 4, December 7th). 

4. Bone the beef, roll it very tightly, and boil it (February 23rd). 
Put it under a weight. 



June 27th. 



Breakfast. 



Savoury Eggs. 

Muslu-ooms on Toast. 

Scones. 

Dry Toast. 

Brown and Wliite Bread 

and Butter. 
Milk Toast. 



Luncheon. 

Cold Shoulder of Mutton. 

Salad. 

Treacle Tart. 



Dinner. 



Milk Soup. 

Liver and Bacon. 

Potatoes. 

Cabbages. 

Boiled Rbubarb Pudding. 

Clieese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— Materials for Salad both for luncheon to-day and supper to- 
morrow night: Lettuce Salad for the one, and Potato Salad for the other. 
One pound and a half of Calf's Liver ; one pound of Streaky Bacon (half for 
to-day and half for to-morrow) ; Potatoes ; Cabbages ; half a pound of Suet 
for rhubarb pudding and for forcemeat ; Parsley. 

For To-morrow.— Plump Sheep's Kidneys (one for each person) ; a thick pair of 
Soles, filleted (January 3rd) ; a Fillet of Veal, weigliing about eight pounds 
(March 14th) ; Anchovies, if not in the house ; Sponge Biscuits and Lemon 
required ; Watercress ; Dried Haddock for June 29th ; Potatoes ; Spinach. 

Breakfast. — Savoury Eggs (January 1st); Mushrooms on Toast 
(March 20th); Scones (May 23rd) ; Milk Toast (June 17th). 

Luncheon". — Mutton served yesterday ; Salad (March 13th) ; 
Treacle Tart (August 7th). 

Dinner. — ]\lilk Soup (January 3rd) ; Liver and Bacon (January 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



IVtli); Potatoes (April 12th); Cabbages (June 4th). Boiled Rhuharh 
Pudding. — Follow the directions given for making beef-steak 
pudding (June 25th), substituting rhubarb (skinned and cut into 
one inch lengths) for the meat, and sugar for the flavourings. 
Cheese (June 8th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Boil the liquor in which the meat was boiled. Glaze and brush 
the beef over with this (March 21st). 

2. To save time to-morrow, prepare the Forcemeat for the Veal to- 
day. For this take half a pound of bread-crumbs that have been 
rubbed through a colander. Put with them three table-spoonfuls 
of finely-chopped suet, a table-spoonful of chopped parsley, a tea- 
spoonful of powdered thyme, a little piece of lemon-rind about the 
size of a thumb-nail, finely chopped, and a little pepper and salt. 
Put the mixture in a cool place, and leave it till wanted. Before 
using it bind it together with a beaten egg, but this should not be 
put in until to-morrow. 

3. Fillet the anchovies, and prepare the stock for anchovy toast 
to-morrow (January 8th). 

4. Partially prepare the rice milk for breakfast to-morrow (Note 3, 
June 17th). 

_ 5. Stew the veal bone, to make gravy for the joint. A little of 
this stock may be used for the anchovy toast {see Gravy for Veal, 
June 28th). 

Sunday, June 28th. 



Breakfast. 


Dinner. 


Tea. 


Supper. 


Ancliovy Toast. 


Soles, Filleted, 


Brown and White 


Rolled Beef. 


Broiled Kidneys. 


Eolled,and Baked, 


Bread and Butter. 


Salad. 


Scones. 


witli Brown But- 


Damson Jam. 


Cherry Pie. 


Dry Toast. 


ter Sauce. 


Plain Cake. 


Cheese. 


Watercress. 


Eoast Fillet of Veal. 






Brown and "Wlute 


Fried Bacon. 






Bread and Butter. 


Potatoes. 






EiceMilk. 


Spinach. 

General Favourite 

Pudding. 
Cheese. 







Breakfast.— Anchovy Toast (January 8th); Broiled Kidneys 
(January 29th) ; Scones (May 23rd) • Rice Milk (June 18th). 

Dinner.— Soles, Filleted, Rolled, and Baked (March 1st) ; Brown 
Butter Sauce (February 12th). Fillet of Veal, Baked or Roasted.— 
Put the forcemeat into the space from which the bone was taken; 
cut the flap slightly with a sharp knife, and lay forcemeat under it. 
Skewer the joint into a good round shape, bind it firmly with 
tape, lay the loose skin (usually sent for the purpose by the butcher) 
over the forcemeat and over the fat. Flour the fillet, put it into a 
bnking-tin with deep sides, and lay a greased paper over it. Baste it 



238 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



frequently over the paper. Let it bake twenty minutes to the pound 
and twenty minutes over. When done enough, take off the paper 
and let it brown, if required. Remove the tape, skewers, and loose 
skin, and put in a silver skewer to keep the meat in shape. Pour 
thick brown gravy over the veal, and garnish with strips of bacon, 
toasted, and sliced lemon. A fillet of veal is better to be baked 
than roasted, because it is so difficult to keep in the stuffing when 
the joint is hung on the spit. GravTj for Veal. — Break the veal 
bone into several pieces, iind put these into a stewpan with a 
•quart of cold water, a bunch of parsley, a small sprig of thyme, 
a square inch of thin lemon-rind, a blade of mace, and six pepper- 
corns. Cover closely, and stew gently for an hour and a half, or till 
the liquor is reduced to a pint. Strain it into a bowl, and let it go 
cold. So far the gravy can be made the day before it is wanted. 
Melt an ounce of butter in a small stewpan, beat into it an ounce 
of flour and half a pint of stock previously freed from fat. Stir it 
till it boils. Pour off the fat from the pan in which the veal was 
baked, keeping back the brown sediment. Pour in the sauce, and 
scrape the brown gravy from the bottom of the pan. Return the 
sauce to the stewpn, add salt to taste, and a few drops of sugar 
browning, if required; strain the gravy over the meat, and serve. 
I'ried Bacon (January 2nd) ; Potatoes (April 12th) ; Spinach (May 
10th); General Favourite Pudding (May 17th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 

Tea.— Plain Cake (June 26th). 

Supper.— Beef, boiled (June 26th) ; Salad (March 13th) ; Cherry 
Pie (August 7th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Be careful not to put too much lemon into the forcemeat. _ The 
quantity named in the recipe, though small, will be quite sufficient ; 
and many people strongly object to it. 

2. If a little of the stock made from the veal bone can be pre- 
served, it mil serve to make gravy for the chickens on June 30th, 
then the chicken giblets can be made into soup. 



Breakfast. 

Dried Haddock. 

Boiled Eggs. 

Scones. 

Hot Buttered Toast. 

Dry Toast. 

Honey. 

Brown and Wliite Bread and 

Butter. 
Oatmeal Porridge. 



June 29th. 



Luncheon. 



Rolled Beef. 
Potato Salad. 
Gooseberry Pie, 



Dinner. 

Vermicelli Soup. 

Minced Veal. 

Fried Bacon. 

Potatoes. 

Hydropathic Pudding of 

Easpberries and Red 

Cui-rants. 
Cbeese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— Bivcon, if required; Potatoes; Bottled Raspberries and Red 
("Juxrants. 



A YEARS COOKERY. 



239 



For To-morrow.— Sardines (January 12th) ; a large fine Fowl or a couple of 
Chickens. Poultry should now begin to be reasonable in price, and will be 
cheaper a:i the summer advances. They are cheapest in October and Novem- 
ber. Young poultry are known by theii* smooth legs, pliable feet, and fine, 
white, clean-looldng skin. They should be plump and heavy. White-legged 
fowls are generally considered the best for boiling, while those with black legs 
are preferred for roasting. In cool weather a fowl should hang for a day or 
two before being cooked, but care must be taken that it does not become 
tainted. The flesh will be firmer if it is plucked the night before it is cooked. 
If the poulterer is to truss the birds, ask him to prepare them for roasting. 
Order a Lamb's Fry for to-morrow. Three-quarters of a pound of Beef Suet. 

Breakfast. — Dried Haddock (January 27th) ; Boiled Eggs 
(January 5tli) ; Scones (^Slay 23rd) ; Oatmeal Porridge (January 25th). 

Luncheon. — Beef, boiled (June 26th) ; Potato Salad (April 12th). 

Dinner. — Vermicelli Soup (March 22nd) ; Minced Veal (May 
11th); Fried Bacon (January 2nd) ; Potatoes (April 12th); Hydro- 
pathic Pudding (June 16th); Cheese (June 8th). 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. If any cold potatoes were left at dinner yesterday, let them be 
used for the potato salad. 

2. Peel and slice the potatoes, and throw them into cold water, 
ready for to-morrow (February 2nd). 

3. Pluck the fowl for to-morrow, and remember to draw the 
feathers out without turning them backward, and so tearing the skin 
(February 28th). 

June 30th. 



Breakfast. 

Sardines. 

Rolled Beef. 

Fried Potatoes. 

Hc>t Toast. 

Dry Toast. 

Marmalade. 

Brown and White Bread 

and Batter. 
Bread and Milk. 



Luncheon. 



Lamb's Fry. 

Plain Suet 

Gravy. 



Pud<liag, with 



Dinner. 

Potato Piu-^e. 
Roast Chickens. 
Bacon. 
Bread Sauce. 
Potatoes. 
Cabbage. 
Lemon Pudding, 
Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— Lamb's Fry, and Fowl, or a couple of Chickens, ordered yester- 
day, to be trussed for roasting ; half a pound of Bacon ; Potatoes ; Cabbage. 

For To-morrow.— A Bath Chap; a quarter of a pound of German Sausage; 
MufSns (January 29th) ; two fine Ox-tails (April 1st). 

Breakfast. — Sardines (January 12th) ; Fried Potatoes (February 
2nd) ; Bread and Milk (January 25th). 

Luncheon. — Lamb's Fry (May 16th) ; Plain Suet Pudding (May 
13th) : this can be served with the fry, if liked. 

Dinner. — Potato Pur6e (January 26th). Chicken or Fowl, 
Roasted. — Skewer the fowi firmly, flour it well, and cover it with 



240 A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



well-greased kitchen-paper. Put it, neck do\viiwards, to a clear fire, 
and baste it frequently with butter or dripping. A chicken would 
take about half an hour ; a large fowl one hour. If two fowls are 
roasted together they should be placed back to back on the spit, and 
the backs should be turned to the fire for a minute or two before 
serving. Large fowls are frequently stuffed with veal forcemeat 
(June 27th) or sausage meat (March 18th), as they "go further" 
when thus prepared. Bro^n gravy, made of stock or of the giblets, 
and bread (October 18th), or oyster (October 16th) sauce should be 
served with the fowls. Bacon rolls (July 19th) may be used to 
garnish the dish. Potatoes (April 12th) ; Cabbage (June 4th) ; Lemon 
Pudding (August 12th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Soak and boil the Bath chap (Note 1, August 25th). 

2. Preserve the remains of the rolled beef. 

3. Scald the giblets. If necessary, make them into gravy 
(October 18th), or use them for soup to-morrow (February 1st). 



FRUITS IN SEASON SUITABLE FOR DESSERT IN JUNE. 

Oranges and Apples (going out); Apricots (from France). 
Towards the end of the month, Cherries, Strawberries, Black, 
Red, and White Currants, Black, Red, and White Grapes, and 
West Indian Pineapples. 

PRESERVING FRUIT. 

At the latter end of June or the early part of July, Gooseberries, 
Strawberries, Currants (Red, White, and Black), and Raspberries 
may be preserved. The precise time must depend upon the state 
of the weather. When the season is early and the weather dry, it is 
wise to take advantage of the opportunity and boil the fruit, because 
the weather may break, and jam made from wet fruit will not keep. 

Fruit for preserving should be fine in quality, sound, fresh, dry, 
and free from dust. It should be prepared ^\T.th as little handling as 
possible, and care should be taken not to bruise it. The sugar used 
for it should be of superfine quality, and should be in lumps, not 
powder. There is no economy in using common sugar for jams. The 
difterence in price between it and refined sugar is quite made up for 
by the larger amount of scum thrown up by the inferior sugar. The 
different kinds of fruit may be boiled alone or in suitable combina- 
tions. The following mixtures are to be recommended : — Strawberries 
and Raspberries, Strawberries and Red or White Currants, Raspberries 
and Red Currants, Raspberries and Rhubarb, Raspberries and Goose- 
berries, Raspberries and Cherries, and Blackberries and Apples are 
alno very good boiled together. In each instance double the quantity 
of raspberries is taken to that of the accompanying fruit. 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 241 



The method of making ordinary jam with these fruits is very 
much the same for each. The fruit should first be weighed, then 
boiled alone till it bubbles equally all over. It should be well 
skimmed, though not too early, as that would cause waste. The 
sugar should then be added, and the jam boiled till a little put 
upon a plate will set. Both the colour and the flavour of the fruit 
will be better preserved if the fruit is boiled first, AVhen an open 
range is used, the preserving-pan should on no account be placed flat 
upon the fire, as that would be sure to make the jam burn. The fruit 
also should be well stirred from the sides and . bottom of the pan ; 
especially should this be done after the sugar is added. Wh^n two 
kinds of fruit are used together, such as rhubarb and raspberries, the 
harder kind (in the instance named, the rhubarb) should be boiled 
longer than the kind which falls easily. 

^ As to the proportionate weight of sugar to be used, that must vary 
with the nature of the fruit. Acid fruit, such as rhubarb and green 
gooseberries, requires one pound of sugar to one pound of fruit. 
Strawberries, raspberries, currants, and cherries, and most plums, 
need three-quarters of a pound of sugar to one pound of fruit; 
indeed, cherries, raspberries, and black currants, when no water 
is used, are often boiled with half their weight in sugar. Damsons, 
too, are an acid fruit, and they are boiled with equal weights of 
fruit and sugar ; but with them it is best to allow a tablespoonful 
of water to each pound of fruit. If too large a proportion of sugar 
is used the jam will set more quickly, and will not need to boil 
away so much, but the delicate flavour of the fruit will be lost, and 
the jam will be likely to candy on the surface with keeping. 

When jam is sufficiently boiled it should be turned into perfectly 
sound jars or glasses (the latter are the best, because in them any 
deterioration in the quality of the jam can be at once perceived). A 
little tissue-paper dipped in spirit of wine should then be laid on 
the fruit, and the glass should either be tied down securely or be 
covered with gummed paper, or else with paper dipped in white of 
egg ' and the jam should be stored in a cool, dry, airy place. 

Ked, Black,^ or White Currant Jelly. — Take dry, clean fruit. 
Put it into a jar, cover it closely, set it in a saucepan three-parts 
filled with cold water, and let it simmer till the juice flows freely. 
Pour the fruit into a jelly-bag to drain away the juice, but do not 
squeeze the fruit. Measure it, and put it into a preserving-pan, 
with a pound of sugar (in lumps) to a pint of juice, and boil till a 
little put upon a plate will set. Carefully skim it during the boiling. 
Put it into small jars for keeping. If this jelly is thought too 
sweet, a smaller proportion of sugar can be used. The jam will 
then need to boil a little longer. Blackberry or Raspberry Jelly 
can be made in this way. If the fruit is not squeezed, it can be 
boiled for every-day use with half the weight of sugar. It must, 
however, be used right away ; it will not keep. 



242 



A YEARS COOKERY. 



Breakfast. 

Bath Cliap. 

German Sausage. 

Muffins. 

Dry Toast. 

Mustard and Cress. 

Brown and Wliite Bread 

and Butter. 
Corn-flour Milk. 



July 1st. 

Luncheon. 

Baked Mackerel. 
Spiced Pie, made of rem- 
nants of Beef. 



Dinner. 

Giblet Soup. 
Stewed Ox-tails. 
Potatoes. 
Greens. 
Stone Cream. 
Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— Two fresh Mackerel (April -Ith) ; Potatoes ; Greens ; a square 
piece of Brisket of Beef, -weighing about eight pounds : a sugar-cured Ham, 
weighing about twelve pounds. 

For To-morrow.— Watercress. 

Breakfast. — Bath Chap (August 25th) ; German Sausage (June 
6th) ; Muffins (January 30th) ; Corn-flour Milk (June 19th). 

Luncheon. — Baked Mackerel (April 15th); Spiced Pie (May Vth). 

Dinner. — Giblet Soup (February 1st) ; Stewed Ox-tails (May 8th); 
Potatoes (April 12th); Cabbage Greens (June 4th). Stone Cream.. — 
Make a pint of blancmange with gelatine (December 11th), or corn- 
flour (June 15th). Put two stale sponge biscuits sliced at the bottom 
of a glass dish, and lay a little good jam upon them.^ Grate the rind 
of a lemon upon them, and squeeze on them the strained juice. Cover 
the dish with the blancmange while it is still in a liquid condition, 
and let it stand in a cool place till stift". Ornament it with knobs of 
the same jam that is spread on the cakes, or, if preferred, garni'sh 
it with blanched almonds. The substitution of cream for milk in the 
blancmange will make this into a very superior dish. Cheese (June 8tli). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Soak a cupful of hominy in water (Note 3, February 10th). 

2. Be careful not to pour the cabbage water down any of the 
drains belonging to the house, but get rid of it by pouring it on the 
ground outside. 

July 2nd. 

Breakfast. i 

Bath Chap. 
Scalloped. Eggs. 
Hot Buttered Toast. 
Dry Toast. ! 

Brown and White Bread 
and Butter. j 

Marmalade. 
Boiled Hominy. ' 

Marketing. 

For the Day.— A pound and a half of Buttock Steak (January 1st) ; five or six 
Tomatoes ; fresh tomatoes may probably now be procm-ed, and they will, of 



Luncheon 

Scotch Collops. 
Yorkshire Pudding, 
in tins. 


Based 


Dinner. 

Tomato Pm-^e. 

Breast of Lamh, Stewed 

■with Mushrooms. 
Green Peas. 
New Potatoes. 
Brown Bread Pudding. 
Cheese. 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



243 



course, be much better than the tinned fruit. A Breast of Lamb ; half a pint, 
or a tin of ]\Iushrooms ; Green Peas ; New Potatoes ; two or three rashers of 
Fat Bacon, if not in the house. 
For To-morrow.— A tin of Collared Tongue ; Watercress. 

Breakfast. — Scalloped Eggs (January 28tli); Boiled Hominv 
(February lltli). 

Luncheon. — Scotch Collops (January 9tli). Batter Pudding, 
baked in Tins. — Follow tlie recipe given for Wyvern puddings (May 
9tli), and instead of putting jam on tlie pudding serve them with the 
gravy. 

Dinner. — Tomato Pur^e (March 11th); Breast of Lamb, Stewed 
with Mushrooms. — Draw out the bones from the lamb. j\Ielt a little 
butter in a saucepan, put in the meat, and turn it about till it is 
equally browned all over. Sprinkle a little salt and pepper over it, 
and put with it a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, a shallot, or a small 
onion finely minced, and the mushrooms. Pour in stock to barely 
cover the meat, and simmer very gently for an hour. Ten minutes 
before the meat is taken up add a few drops of lemon-juice to the 
gravy. Put the lamb on a hot dish, place the mushrooms round it, 
and strain the gravy over all : serve immediately. Green Peas 
(July 12th); New Potatoes (April 12th); Brown Bread Pudding 
(July 20th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Boil the brine, with an additional handful of salt, and lay the 
brisket of beef in it. 

2. Make a ground rice shape for dinner to-morrow (August 7th). 



July 3rd 



Breakfast. 


Luncheon. 


Dinner. 


Collared Tongue. 

Watercress. 

Hot Buttered Toast. 

Brown and White Bread 

and Butter. 
Pi-ied Houiiny. 


Macai-oni and Bacou. 
Gooseberry FooU 


Boiled Brill. 

Shrimp Sauce. 

Veal, simply Braised. 

Spinach. 

Potatoes. 

Ground Rice Shape, with 

Red Currant Jelly. 
Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— A quart of Gooseberries ; a thick BriU (January 9th) ; half a 
pint of picked, or one pint of unpicked, Shrimps ; a slice from the FiUet 
of Veal, about four inches thick, and weighing about four pounds ; ask the 
butcher to remove the bone. Spinach ; Potatoes ; a pennyworth of fresh 
Yoast ; Macaroni. 

For To-morrow.— Bespeak half an Ox-kidney for to-morrow. 

Breakfast.— Collared Tongue (Januaiy 2nd) ; Fried Hominy 
(February 12th). 



244 



A YEAR'S COOKER ¥. 



Luncheon. — Macaroni and Bacon (January ^7tli) ; Gooseberry 
Fool (June 24tli). 

Dinner. — Boiled Brill (January 9tli) ; Shrimp Sauce (January 
Both). Veal^ simply Braised. — Cut away the skin, bind the veal into 
a compact piece with tape, and flour it well. Melt a small slice of 
butter in a stewpan, put in the veal, and fry it till it is brown on one 
side, then turn it upon the other. Take it up, and put into the stew- 
pan a large carrot cut into slices, an onion, a bunch of parsley, a 
sprig of thyme, a bay-leaf, half a blade of mace, and half a dozen 
peppercorns, (iover the vegetables with one or two thin slices of fat 
bacon, lay the meat on the top, and pour in as much stock or water 
as will just cover the vegetables without touching the veal. Lay a 
round of buttered paper on the meat. Cover the stewpan closely, 
put it at the side of the stove, and let the veal cook as slowly as 
possible for quite four hours. Baste it frequently with the liquor, in 
order that it may absorb the flavour of the vegetables. When done 
enough take it up and keep it hot. Strain the gravy, and boil it 
quickly for a few minutes till it is thick and smooth. If necessary, 
add salt to it, but possibly the bacon will have supplied all that is 
required. Add a few drops of browning if necessary, pour the sauce 
over the meat, and serve. The meat should be tender and mellow, 
but not at all ragged. This dish will look very pretty garnished with 
a Macedoine or mixture of turned cooked vegetables. _ This is rather 
troublesome to prepare at home, but may be bought in a tin ready 
prepared and needing only to be made hot. Ground Kice Shape 
made yesterday ; Cheese (June 8th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Turn and rub the beef in the brine. 

2. If any brill is left, lift it from the bone ; it can be used to make 
fish cakes (January 13th) for luncheon to-morrow. 

3. Pastry may be made to-day (April 17th) : Cherry pie, goose- 
berry pie (August 7th), jam turnovers (September 25th), soda cake 
(August 14th), scones (August 26th). If any sour milk is in the house 
it may be used to make scones. 



Breakfast. 

Fried Ham. 

Fried Eggs. 

Scones. 

Dry Toast. 

Honey. 

Browu and "WMte Bread 

and Butter. 
Milk Pon-idge. 



July 4th, 

Luncheon. 

Fi>]i Cakes. 
Veal Eissoles. 



Dinner. 

Kidney Soup. 
Mutton Chops, witli 

quante Sauce. 
BroccoK. Potatoes. 
Rothe Griitze. 
Clieese. 



Pi- 



Marketing. 
For the Day.— Half an Ox Kidney ordered yesterday ; Mutton Chops (IVlarket. 
ing, April 30th) ; a pound of Red CurrantB, and half a pound of Raspberries ; 



A YEARS COOKERY. 



245 



Broccoli, Potatoes. Old potatoes will be requii-ed for the fish cakes ; a penny- 
^vorth of Parsley. Ham bought July 1st. 
For To-morrow.— About four pounds of the middle cut of a Salmon. Salmon 
when good has the gills and flesh red, the body stiff, the scales bright, the 
eyes prominent, and the belly firm and thick. The redness of the gills is 
not alone to be relied upon as a sign of the goodness of the fish, as this 
appearance is frequently given artificially. A couple of Ducks. Young 
ducks have the breast phmip and firm and the skin clear and fresh-looking. 
If the breast is lean and flabby it may be suspected that the bird is old. 
Green Peas, new Potatoes. ]\Iaterials for a salad : two lettuces, a half -penny- 
worth of beetroot, a half-pennyworth of small Salad, two pennyworth of 
Watercress, half for breakfast ; one pound of fresh Strawberries ; a quarter 
of a pound of Bacon in rashers ; Sea Biscuits if not in the house ; and a tin 
of Potted Grouse (January 7th) ; Dried Haddock for July 6th. 

Breakfast. — Fried Ham (March 5th) ; Fried Eggs (March 5th) ; 
Scones (May 23rd) ; Milk Porridge (June 13th). 

Luncheon. — Fish Cakes (January 13th). Veal Rissoles. — ^lince 
very finely all that remains of the cold veal, and mix with the mince 
one-fourth of its bulk in cooked bacon or ham, and also in bread-crumbs 
that have been rubbed through a colander. Add three or four drops 
of essence of anchovy, a little pepper and salt, and a table-spoonful of 
finely-chopped parsley. Moisten the mixture, and bind it together 
with beaten &gg and a little of the gravy that the veal was stewed in. 
Make up the preparation into balls the size of walnuts, flour these 
lightly, and fry them to a light brown colour. Serve them wdth a 
little of the veal gravy if there be any left. 

Dinner, — Kidney Soup (February 27th) ; Mutton Chops, with 
Piquante Sauce (April 30th) ; Cauliflower (April 25th) ; Potatoes 
(April 12th) ; Rothe Griitze (December 10th) ; (Dheese (June 8th). 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Turn and rub the beef in the brine. 

2. ]\Iake a strawberry gateau for supper to-morrow night {see 
Oherry Gateau, July 11th). 

3. Salt the short bones of the chops and put them aside ; they can 
be stewed with the scrag of mutton served July 6th. 



Sunday, July 5th. 



Breakfast. 


Dinner. 


Tea. 


Supper. 


Devilled Eggs. 


Boiled Salmon. 


Plum Jam. 


Pickled Salmon. 


Toasted Bacon. 


Anchovy Sauce. 


Soda Cake. 


Salad. 


Scones. 


Roast Ducks. 




Strawberry Gateau 


Dry Toast. 


Green Peas. 




Clieese. 


Watercress. 


New Potatoes. 






Brown and White 


Cherry Pie. 






Bread and Butter. 


Cheese. 






Biscuits and Milk. 









Breakfast.— Devilled Eggs (February 27tli) ; Toasted Bacon 
(January 19th); Scones (May 23rd) ; Biscuits and Milk (June 14th). 



246 



A YUAB'iS COOKERY, 



Dinner. — Boiled Salmon. — Scrape the scales from the fish, clean 
it, and be careful that no blood is left in it. Put it into boiling 
salted water, that has had a little vinegar or lemon-juice put 
into it, let it boil two minutes, then draw it back, and simmer it 
gently till done enough. It will take from six to ten minutes per 
pound, according to the thickness of the fish. When the flesh leaves 
the bones easily it is done enough. Take it up immediately; if too 
much boiled it will be tasteless and colourless. If it is not wanted 
on the instant it may be kept on the fish drainer across the fish 
kettle with a thick cloth laid upon it. Put it on a napkin or fish 
paper, garnish with parsley and cut lemon, and send anchovy sauce 
to table with it. If preferred, shrimp (January 30th) or Dutch sauce 
(May 14th) may be used instead of anchovy sauce. Anchovy Sauce 
{see Melted Butter, July 17th). Lemon-juico or vinegar is put into 
the water to set the colour of the salmon. Roast Duck (July 26th) ; 
Green Peas (July 12th) ; New Potatoes (April 12th) ; Cherry 
Pie (August 7th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 

Tea.— Soda Cake (August 14th). 

Supper.— Pickled Salmon (May 30th); Salad (March 13th); Straw- 
berry Gateau {see Cherry Gateau, July 11th). 

Things that must not be Forgotton. 

1. As soon as the salmon leaves the table, lift the flesh from the 
bone in neat pieces ; put these in a dish, and cover them with vinegar 
They can be served at supper. 

2. Turn and rub the beef in the brine. 



Breakfast. 

Dried Haddock. 

Potted Grouse. 

Scones. 

Dry Toast. 

Brown and White 

and Butter, 
Milk Toast. 



Bread 



July 6th. 

Luncheon. 

Scrag of Mutton with Bice. 
Gooseberry Fool, 



Dinner. 

Crodte au Pot. 

Boiled Neck of Mutton with 

Maitre d' Hotel Sauce. 
Potatoes, 
Young CaiTots. 
Viennoise Pudding. 
Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For The Day.— A fine Neck of Mutton not too fat. (Be sure that the butcher 
joints the meat.) The Scrag is to be served at luncheon, the best end is for 
dinner. A quart of Green Gooseberries. Old Potatoes, Young Carrots. 

For To-morrow.— Half a Pound of Macaroni, (Marketing, January 1st.) A 
pennyworth of small Salad. Anchovies if not in the house. A pound of 
Red CurranOs ; half a pound of Raspberries ; Cream. 



Breakfast. — Dried Haddock (January 27th); Potted Grouse 
(January 7th) ; Scones (May 23rd) ; Milk Toast (June 17th). 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 247 



Lu^^CHEON. — Scrag of Mutton with Rice (February 21st). The 
short bones of the chops served July 4th may be stewed with this. 
Gooseberry Fool (June 24th). 

Dinner.— CroLite au Pot (May 25th) • Boiled Neck of Mutton 
(February 23rd). A neck of mutton should, after boiling five minutes, 
simmer for fifteen minutes per pound, and fifteen minutes over. 
Maitre d'Hotel Sauce (May 6th). Potatoes (April 12th). Carrots, 
To Boil. — Young carrots should be simply washed before boiling, 
then rubbed with a clean cloth when they are tender. Old carrots 
should be washed, scraped with a knife, and cut either to the 
shape of young carrots or to a fancy shape. After preparing the 
carrots throw them into plenty of boiling water lightly salted, 
and let them boil till tender. Quite young carrots will be done 
enough in about twenty minutes, old carrots will take from three- 
quarters of an hour to an hour and a half. When tender drain 
them and put them into a stewpan with enough stock to barely 
cover them, a lump of sugar, and a slice of fresh butter. Boil the 
sauce quickly, with the lid off the pan, till it is thick and coats the 
carrots. Shake them in the glaze, and serve. Viennoise Pudding. — 
Take five ounces of stale bread, and cut it into very small pieces. 
Pour a glass of sherry on this if permitted, and with the wine milk 
that has been coloured darkly with sugar browning (January 2nd) 
to make a pint. If a superior pudding is required, a mixture of milk 
and cream may be used, but there must be a pint of liquid altogether. 
Let the bread soak for awhile, then beat it well with a fork, and add 
three ounces of sultana raisins, three ounces of moist sugar, two 
ounces of candied peel chopped small, the grated rind of a lemon. 
Mix thoroughly. Beat the yolks of one, two, three, or four eggs in a 
bowl, and add them to the pudding. If one or two eggs only are used 
a tea-spoonful of flour should be stirred into the pudding to bind it 
together, or it will not turn out. Put the mixture into a well- 
buttered mould, lay a round of buttered paper on the top, and 
steam it (Treacle Pudding, March 28th) for an hour and a half. 
When it is firm in the centre it is done enough. Let it stand a minute 
before turning it out. Sweet sauce or brandy sauce may be served 
with this. Cheese (June 8th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Turn and rub the beef in the brine. 

2. Boil the neck of mutton in the liquor used for the scrag of 
mutton, and preserve any that may be left. 

3. Make the rothe griitze for to-morrow (December 10th). 

4. See Note 4 (January 17th). 

5. Partially prepare the rice and barley porridge for breakfast to- 
morrow. (Note 6, June 15th.) 

6. Save the whites of the eggs used for the pudding ; cover them 
and keep them in a cool place till AVeduesday. The Plaice at 
Luncheon can be egged with them, then covered with bread-crumbs 



248 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



instead of being floured only before frying. Or, if preferred, they can 
be \\ liisked and stirred into the Wy vern puddings just before they 
are 1 -aked 



July 7th. 



Breakfast. 


Luncheon. 


Dinner. 


Anchovies and Hard-boiled 


Bailed Mackerel. 


Sliced HaUbut. 


Eggs. 


Italian Macaroni. 


Loin of Lamb, braised, with 


Potted Grouse, 




Tomatoes. 


Hot Buttered Toast. 




New Potatoes, Spinach. 


Dry Toast. 




Eotbe Grtttze. 


Marmalade. 




Cheese. 


Brown and White Bread 






and Butter. 






Rice and Barley Poiridge. 







Marketing. 

For Tlie Day.— Two moderate-sized fresh Mackerel (April 4th) ; as many slices 
of Halibut an inch thiclc as are likely to be required (June 11th). A Loin 
of Lamb (Marketing, May 22nd). Half a dozen Tomatoes. Foreign tomatoes 
are not usually expected until August, and English tomatoes mitil September, 
but for the last year or two very fine Lisbon tomatoes have been brought into 
the London market by the end of June. New Potatoes ; Spinach. 

For To-morrow.— A dozen fresh Herrings (January 3rd), soft roed fish are to be 
preferred; a pound of Bacon in rashers, half for breakfast, and half for the 
Rabbit; a pennyworth of Mustard and Cress. 

Breakfast. — Anchovies and Hard-boiled Eggs (January 18th) ; 
Potted Grouse (January 7th) ; Rice and Barley Porridge (June 15th). 

Luncheon. — Baked Mackerel (April 1 5th). Italian Macaroni— Vnt 
the half pound of macaroni into two quarts of boiling water with a 
tea-spoonful of salt and half the quantity of pepper, and let it simmer 
for twenty minutes or longer if required. It should be tender when 

Eressed between the finger and tliumb. Drain it well, and put it 
ack into the ste^^qDan with half a pint of stock or milk (in Italy 
stock is used), and simmer it for two or three minutes. Have ready 
grated a quarter of a pound of cheese, mixed Parmesan and Gruyere, 
if they are to be had, if not, any mild dry English or American 
cheese can be used. Put half the cheese into the macaroni, shake it 
about, add a slice of butter and shake again, then put in the rest 
of the cheese, and when this also is thoroughly mixed serve 
immediately. 

Dinner.— Fried Halibut (June 23rd) ; Loin of Lamb, braised 
(May 22nd). The Tomatoes may be baked by themselves, and may 
be either placed round the lamb as a garnish, or served on a separate 
dish. Baked Tomatoes. — Cut off the stalks and put the tomatoes 
into a greased pie-dish, sprinkle a little pepper and salt over them, 
and cover the top with finely-grated bread-crumbs. Bake in a 
moderate oven for about half an hour till the tomatoes are quite soft. 
If preferred; the tomatoes can be cut into thick slices before being 



A YEAE'S COOKERY. 



249 



baked New Potatoes (April 12tli) ; Spinach (Ma,y 10th) ; Rothe 
Griitze made yesterday. Cheese (June 8th). 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Turn and rub the beef in the brine. 

2. Pickle the herrings for breakfast to-morrow (August 20th). 

3. Partially prepare the rice milk for breakfast (Note 3, June 
17th). 



July 8th, 



Breakfast. 


Luncheon. 


Dinner. 


Pickled Hei-rings. 


Fried Plaice. 


Vermicelli Soup. 


Mustard Sauce. 


Datcli Sauce. 


Baked Eabbit. 


Toasted Bacon. 


China Cliilo. 


Potatoes. 


Hot Buttered Toast. 


Eice Boiled for Curry. 


Cauliflower. 


Dry Toast. 




Wyvern Puddings. 


Brown and Wliite Bread 




Cheese. 


and Butter. 






Mustard and Cress. 






Eice Milk. 







Marketing. 

For the Day — A thick Plaice (April 21st) ,- a pair of tame Rabbits. Ostend 
Rabbits have by this time gone out of season, but Tame Rabbits are to be had 
in summer time, and furnish excellent food. To choose Rabbits, see January 
24th. A pound and a half of Mutton, taken from the Loin or Neck ; 
Potatoes ; Cauliflowers ; a pennyworth of Parsley ; two Lettuces and Green 
Peas for China Chilo. 

For To-morrow.— Fine plump Sheep's Kidneys, one for each person ; a penny- 
worth of Watercress ; six oimces of firm Beef Suet, for Roly-poly Pudding. 

Bee AKF AST.— Pickled Herrings, prepared last evening. When 
serving the herrings put them on a glass dish, pour a little of the 
vinegar round, and garnish Avith parsley. Mustard Sauce. — Make a 
little maitre d'hotel sauce (May 6th) ; stir a tea-spoonful of mixed 
mustard into it, and serve. The pickled herrings will be very good 
without sauce. Toasted Bacon (January 19th); Rice Milk (June 
18th). 

LuNCHEOX.— Fried Plaice (April 21st) ; Dutch Sauce (May 14th). 
China Chilo. — Cut the meat from the bones in the loin of mutton, 
and retain a small portion only of the fat. Mince the meat finely, 
and wash and shred the lettuces. Put the meat into a stew^an with 
the shred lettuces, a pint of freshly-shelled green peas, a slice of 
sweet butter, a little pepper and salt, and a quarter of a pint of stock 
or Avater. Stir the ingredients over a gentle fire till hot, then cover 
the stewpan closely, draw it back, and let its contents simmer very 
gently for two hours. Boil a cupful of rice as for curry. Put the 
preparation on a dish, place the rice round it, and serve very hot. 
If liked, a large onion finely minced, or a small cucumber cut into 
dice, or a few mushrooms may be stewed with the vegetal )les; and 



250 



A YEARS COOKERY. 



when green peas are not in season, carrots, turnips, French beans, or 
cauliflower sprigs may be used in their place. 

Dinner. — Vermicelli Soup (]\Iarch 22nd). Baked Babbit. — Skin, 
and empty the rabbits, and cut thorn into neat joints, convenient for 
serving. Pepper these lightly, and put them side by side (not one on 
the top of another) into a baking-tin, and lay a rasher of bacon upon 
each one. Bake in a moderate oven till the rabbit is sufficiently 
cooked. It will take about an hour and a half. Put the pieces of 
rabbit on a dish, garnish w4th the bacon, pour the gravy over all, and 
serve. The heads of the rabbits need not be put on the dish, but the 
flesh can be picked off to put ^^dth the remains of the rabbit in the 
gateau to-morrow, and the bones stewed wdll make excellent stock. 
Potatoes (xlpril 12th) ; Cauliflower (April 25th) ; Wyvern Puddings 
(May 9th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Turn and rub the beef in the brine. 

2. Prepare and slice the potatoes, and throw them into cold water, 
to be ready for frying to-morrow morning (February 2nd). 



Breakfast. 

Broiled Kidnej-s. 

Fried Potatoes. 

Hot Buttered Toast. 

Dry Toast. 

Brown and White Bread 

and Butter. 
Watercress. 
Oatmeal Porridge. 



July 9th. 

Luncheon. 

Eabbit Gateau. 
Comp6te of Cherries. 



Dinner. 

Sole au Gratin. 
Veal Stew Piquante 
New Potatoes, 
Green Peas. 
Roly-poly Pudding. 
Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— One pound of Kentish Cherries ; a slice of Veal from the Fillet, 
weighing two and a half or three pounds ; a small Cucumber ; a Lettuce ; 
New Potatoes ; Green Peas. 

For To-morrow.— A pint of freshly-boiled Shrimps ; a small tin of Corned Beef. 
Bespeak a Lamb's Fry for to-morrow. 

Breakfast. — Broiled Kidneys (January 29th); Fried Potatoes 
(February 2nd) ; Oatmeal Porridge (January 25th). 

Luncheon. — Babbit Gdteau. — Take the remains of baked rabbit, 
pick all the meat from the bones, and leave out the hard outer skin 
and the sinews, which will be a valuable addition to the stock-pot. 
Weigh the meat, put a slice of bacon with it, if there is any, and 
mince all finely together. Take half the weight in stale crumb of 
bread ; soak this in milk, squeeze it dry, and pound it with the 
minced rabbit; season with pepper and salt. Bind the mixture 



A YEARS COOKERY. 



251 



together vrith yolk of egg, and at the last moment mix in the white 
of egg beaten to a stiff froth. Turn the preparation into a plain tin 
moiUd well buttered, put a greased paper on the top, and steam the 
gateau for an hour and a half as puddings are steamed (March 28th). 
Take half a pint of nicely flavoured stock (this can be made with a 
portion of the rabbit bones if necessary) ; thicken it by boiling in it 
a dessert-spoonful of corn-flour mixed smoothly with a little cold 
water ; add a few drops of sugar broMoiing, and a glass of sherry, if 
permitted. Turn the gateau on a dish, pour the gravy round, and 
serve. Cold meat of different kinds can be served a second time in 
this way. Compote of Cherries (August 5th). 

Dinner. — Sole au Gratin (May 3rd) ; Veal Stew Piquante (October 
2nd) -New Potatoes (April 12th) ; Green Peas (July 12th); Roly- 
poly Pudding (August 18th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Turn and rub the beef in the brine. 

2. Shell the shrimps overnight, and put them between 
dishes. 



two 



Breakfast. 

Buttered Shrimps. 

Corned Beef. 

Hot Buttered Toast. 

Dry Toast. 

Honey. 

Brown and White Bread 

ml Butter. 
Corn Flour MUk. 



July lOth. 



Luncheon. 

Lamb's Fry. 
Boiled Kice, 



Dinner. 

Boiled Brill. 
Neapolitan Sauce. 
Scotch Hotch Potch. 
Hayrick Puddings. 
Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— A Lamb's Fry (May 16th) ; a moderate-sized Brill (January 
9th) ; three to four pounds of a Loin of INIutton divided into neat chops. 
Procm-e a loin with as little fat as possible. If preferred, a neck of mutton 
or the ribs of lamb may be chosen. Plenty of vegetables for the hotch potch : 
young Turnips, young Carrots, a lettuce, a good-sized Cauliflower, a w^hite- 
nearted Cabbage, and some young Onions, together with about two pecks 
of Green Peas. There should be as many mixed vegetables as will fill a quart 
measure or more, and three pints of freshly-shelled green peas. The excel- 
lence of hotch potch consists in the presence of a superabundance of peas. 
New Potatoes ; a pennyworth of German Yeast. 

For To-morrow.— A tin of Sardines (January 12th). Order four pennyworth of 
Cream, if pei-mitted. 



Breakfast. — Buttered Shrimps (July 23rd) ; Corned Beef, bought 
yesterday ; Corn Flour Milk (June 19th). 

Luncheon.— Lamb's Fry (May 16th); Boiled Kice (February 3rd). 

Dinner. — Boiled Brill (January 9th) ; Neapolitan Sauce (February 
8th), Scotch Hotch Potch. — Prepare the mixed vegetables, all but 



252 



A TEAKS COOKERY. 



the carrots, cut them up and shred them finely, and put with them 
a handful of parsley chopped small. Put them into a stewpan with 
four quarts of boiling stock or water, and add the yellow part only 
of three young carrots finely grated, a pint and a half of green peas, 
or half the quantity provided, and the loin or neck of mutton cut 
into neat chops. If lamb is preferred it should be kept whole. Boil 
gently for an hour and a half, season with pepper and salt, add the 
rest of the peas, boil half an hour longer, and serve. The cutlets 
should be put into the tureen with the hotch potch. This dish is 
called a soup, but it is much more like a stew. Of course, if 
thought well, it can be served as a soup, and meat can be sent to 
table after it is removed. Hayrick Puddings (March 19th) ; Cheese 
(June 8th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Cut the brisket of beef that has been in salt in two pieces, 
tie one half securely on the top of the other, and boil it till tender, 
then press it under a weight (February 23rd). 

2. Pastry is to be made to-day (April 17th) : red currant pie of 
bottled fruit (August 7th) ; jam turnovers (September 25th) ; also 
teacakes (August 26th), and good currant cake (June 26th). 



July nth. 



Breakfast. 


Luncheon. 


Dinner. 


Sardines. 


Fisli Pie (made of remains 


Potato Pui-ee. 


Corned Beef. 


of Brill). 


Calf's Liver and Bacon. 


Teacakes. 


Hotch Potch made hot. 


Potatoes. Cabbage-Greens. 


Drv Toast. 


Jam Turnovers. 


Eed Currant Pie. 


Browu and White Bread 




Cream. 


aud Butter. 




Cheese, 


Marmalade. 






Bread and Milk. 







Marketing. 

For the Day.— A pound and a half of Calf's Liver : half a pound of streaky 
Bacon cut into rashers ; a pennyworth of Parsley : Potatoes, Greens. 

For To-morrow.— Fresh Strawberries, and half a pint of milk for each child 
for breakfast ; Watercress ; four or five Tomatoes ; a moderate-sized but 
thick Turbot, with a little Lobster Spawn, if Lobster Sauce is required ; two 
Leverets (June 13Mi) ; three-quarters of a pound of Bacon in rashers— half a 
poimd of this is for bx-eakfast ; half a pint of Mushrooms, or, if these are 
not to be had, a small tin of Champignons ; Green Peas, New Potatoes ; 
eight stale sponge fingers and three or four Ratafias. Materials for a 
salad : Lettuce, Beetroot, and Endive ; a pound of Cherries for the gateau ; 
if permitted, order half a pint of double cream for the g-ateau. A Ham 
bought July 1st is supposed to be in cut. 



Breakfast. ^ Sardmes (January 12th); Corned Beef, bought 
July 9th ; Teacakes (February 14th) ; Br'^ad and Milk (January 25th). 



A YEARS COOKERY. 



253 



Ltincheon. — Fish Pie {see Cod Pie, January 2nd) ; Hotch Potcli 
served yesterday ; Jam Tnrnovers (September 25th). 

Dinner. — Potato Purde (January 26th) ; Calf's Liver and Bacon 
(January 17th) ; Potatoes (April 12th) ; Cabbage Greens (June 4th) ; 
Red Currant Pie (August 7th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Glaze the beef (March 21st). 

2. Do not pour the cabbage water down any of the drains of the 
house. 

3. Make the Cherry Gateau for supper to-morrow. Soak one 
ounce of gelatine in a cupful of water for an hour. Remove the 
stalks and stones from one pound of cherries. Boil a quarter of a 
pound of loaf sugar in half a pint of water for ten minutes ; throw 
in the cherries, and let them boil for ten minutes. Dissolve the 
gelatine in a little of the syrup, add it to the cherries, throw in a 
few cherry kernels, and colour the gateau with cochineal. Put the 
preparation into a damp mould which has a gallipot fixed in the 
centre. When wanted turn it into a glass dish, and put a little 
crtam or custard (August 10th) in the place which was occupied by 
the gallipot. Various fruits may be used instead of cherries. 

4. Carefully preserve any cold turbot that may be left, and 
make fish cakes of it for breakfast to-morrow (January 13th). 



Sunday, July 12th, 



Breakfast. 



aud 



Fisli Cakes. 
Tomatoes 

Bacon. 
Toasted Teacakes. 
Dry Toast. 
Watercress. 
Brown and White 

Bread and Butter. 
Strawberries with 

Cold Milk, and 

Bread and Butter. 



Dinner. 

Boiled Turbot. 
Lobster Sauce. 
Civet of Leveret. 
Green Peas. 
New Potatoes. 
Cabinet Pudding, 
Cheese. 



Tea. 

Bi'own and White 
Bread and Butter. 
Strawberry Jam. 
Cake. 



Supper. 

Pressed Beef. 

Salad. 

Cheri-y Gateau. 

Cheese. 



Breakfast. — Fish Cakes (January 13th). Tomatoes and Bacon. 
— Cut the stalks from the tomatoes, and if liked, cut them into thick 
slices ; or they may be left whole. Fry the bacon very gently over a 
slow fire till it is done enough. Lift it upon a hot dish and gently 
fry the tomatoes till tender in the fat that has run from the bacon. 
They will be done enough in a few minutes. Put them on the dish 
with the bacon, and serve immediately. Teacakes (February 14th) ; 
Strawberries bought yesterday. 

Luncheon. — Boiled Turbot (June 7th) ; Lobster Sauce (June 
7th); Civet of Leveret (June 14th). Green Peas. — Peas are best 



254 A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



when young and freshly shelled. Put plenty of water with a pinch 

of salt into a saucepan. When it is quite boiling put in the shelled 
peas and let them boil till almost tender. If liked, two or three sprigs 
of mint can be boiled wdth them. The lid must not on any account 
be placed on the saucepan. The peas will be done enough in from 
fifteen to twenty minutes, according to their age and size. It is 
best to try them now and then, as if boiled till they break they will - 
be spoilt. Drain them well, and put them into a shallow pan with 
a slice of butter the size of a walnut for a tureen full of peas. 
Sprinkle a tea-spoonful of white sugar and a pinch of salt over them, 
and shake them over the fire to coat them with the butter. Turn 
into a tureen and serve. If the peas are old, or have been long 
gathered, a very small pinch of carbonate of soda may be put into 
the water in which they are boiled ; but this is not necessary, and 
is better to be omitted when the peas are young and freshly shelled. 
Potatoes (April 12th.) Cabinet Pudding.— Choose a pint mould, 
or if a larger pudding is required, increase the -quantities of the 
ingredients proportionately to the size. Butter the mould and 
ornament it inside according to taste. Angelica cut into strips, 
preserved cherries and pistachio kernels make a very pretty garnish 
for sweet dishes of all kinds, the dark green of the angelica and 
the lighter green of the pistachios contrasting very effectively with 
the bright colour of the cherries. These ingredients are generally 
avoided iDCcause they are regarded as expensive. If carefully used, 
however, it would be found that half a pound of each would suflice 
for the moderate requirements of a family for five or six months. 
The cherries and pistachios must be kept separate in covered jars, 
and the angelica must be kept in a cool place excluded from the air. 
The pistachios before being used must be blanched as almonds are, 
that is, they must be put into a saucepan T\dth the cold water and 
heated gently till on the point of boiling, when the skins can be 
easily slipped off, leaving the beautiful green kernel exposed to view. 
Half a dozen kernels, half an inch of angelica, and a dozen cherries, 
would make a plain pudding or blancmange look quite a superior 
dish. Break the biscuits and ratafias into moderate-sized pieces. 
After ornamenting the buttered mould put in the biscuit, carefully, 
not to disturb the ornamentation, and pour gently in a custard 
made of two-thirds of a pint of milk, the yolks <)t two, and the white 
of one, egg. Sweeten to taste and flavour ^dth vanilla or almond. 
Lay a round of buttered kitchen paper on the top of the pudding, 
and steam it till it is firm in the centre. (Treacle Pudding, March 
28th.) It will take about three-quarters of an hour, and the water 
should be boiled gently. Let it stand a minute, turn it carefully upon 
a hot dish, and pour a little good sauce round it. If the pudding is 
preferred cold, boil the custard and mix an o<unce of dissolved 
gelatine with it. Cheese (June 8th). 

Tea.— Currant Cake (June 26th). 

Supper— Salad (March 13th). Whipped Cieam (December 12lli). 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



255 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1 . The white of e,gg that is not used will be a valuable addition 
to the batter pudding to-morrow. 

2. Preserve the liquor in which the turbot is boiled. Fish soup 
can be made of it for to-morrow. 

3. Put a cupful of green lentils to soak all night in cold water. 



July I3th, 



Breakfast. 


Luncheon. 


Dinner. 


Fried Ham. 


Fish Cakes. 


Fish Soup, Simple. 


Fried Eggs. 


Baked Batter Pudding. 


Eoast Ribs of Beef, Rolled 


Teacakes. 




Boiled Lentils. 


Dry Toast. 




Potatoes. 


Honey. 




Newmarket Pudding. 


brown and White Bread 




Cheese. 


and Butter. 






Corn Floiir MUk. 







Marketing. 

For the Day.— One or two ribs of Beef, according to the requirements of the 
family. The butcher should be asked to bone the meat, roll it, and skewer 
it firmly. Potatoes ; two pounds of old potatoes will be wanted for the fish 
cakes ; a fresh Ox Tongue. If this is not to be procured immediately it can 
be ordered of the butcher and pickled as soon as convenient. A tongue is 
never so good as when boiled straight out of the pickle. 

For To-morrow.— A pennyworth of Watercress. 

Breakfast.— Fried Ham (March 5th) ; Fried Eggs (March 5th) ; 
Teacakes (February 14th) ; Corn Flour Milk (June 19th). 

Luncheon. — Fish Cakes (January 13th) ; Baked Batter Pudding 
(February 5th). 

Dinner. — Fish Soup, Simple. — Take the bones, head, and all that 
is left of the turbot, after using the flesh for fish cakes, and stew 
them for two hours in about three pints of the liquor the fish was 
boiled in. Strain the soup, and return it to the ste^v|3an with two 
table-spoonfuls of well-washed rice, an onion stuck with one clove, 
and half a blade of mace, and simmer again for half an hour. Season 
the soup with pepper and salt, and mix a large breakfast-cupful of 
boiling milk with the liquor, and pour it into the tureen. Have 
ready a table-spoonful of well-washed and finely-chopped parsley, 
throw it into the tureen at the last moment, and serve very hot. 
Roast Ptibs of Beef. (To Roast Meat, March 4th) ; Gravy (June 9th) ; 
Potatoes (April 12th) ; Lentils (March 2nd) ; Newmarket Pudding 
(June 2nd) ; Cheese (June 8th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Trim the tongue, rub it well all over with salt, put it on an 
earthenware dish, and let it lie for twenty -four hours. This is to 
clear it of slime. 



256 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



2. Potted Leveret. — Pick every particle of meat from the bonea 
of the leveret. Mince it finely, and pound it till smooth, and take 
out all sinew and outside skin. Season the meat agreeably with 
pepper and salt, and sparingly with pounded mace and pounded 
cloves. Moisten the meat with butter whilst pounding it, press it 
into a potting pot, and cover it with clarified butter. It will be 
excellent for breakfast or luncheon. The bones, skin, and gravy 
tliat remain can be made into soup {see Hare Soup, January 19th). 

3. Put a cupful of hominy to soak all night in cold water 
(February 10th). 



July 14th. 



Breakfast. 


Luncheon. 


Dinner. 


Egsrs in Brown Butter. 


Baked Mackerel. 


Leveret Soup. 


Potted Leveret. 


Savom-y Eice. 


Cold Beef. 


Teacakes. 




Salad. 


Dry Toast. 




Potatoes. 


Brown and Wliite Bread 




Pancakes. 


and Butter. 




Cheese. 


Watercress. 






Boiled Hominy. 







Marketing. 

For the Day.— Two moderate-sized Mackerel (April 4tli) ; a fine Lettuce, hall 
an Endive, a half-pennyworth of Beetroot, Watercress, small Onions ; a small 
plump Leg of Mutton. 

For To-morrow.— A dozen fresh Herrings with soft roes ; one pound of 
Tomatoes, or, if more convenient, a small bottle of Preserved Tomatoes, can 
be procured instead of the fresh fruit. The Ham to ba boiled to-morrow ia 
understood to be already in the house. 

Breakfast. — Eggs in Brown Butter (January 6th) ; Potted 
Leveret made yesterday ; Teacakes (February 14th) ; Boiled Hominy 
(February 11th). 

Luncheon. — Baked Mackerel (April 15th) ; Savoury Kice (June 
17th). 

Dinner. — Leveret Soup {see Hare Soup, January 19th); Beef 
roasted July 13th ; Salad (March 13th) ; Potatoes (April 12th) ; Pan- 
cakes (February 24th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Boil the brine with an additional handful of salt, and let it 
go cold. 

2. Drain away the slime from the ox tongue, wash it lightly, and 
put it in the brine. Be careful to cover it well. It must be turned 
and rubbed every day for a fortnight or more. 

3. Make a pickle for sour mutton (March 19th), and put the leg 
of mutton into it. 

4. Make the batter for the pancakes an hour or two before it is 
wanted- 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



257 



5. Pickle the herrings, and leave them in a dish covered with 

vinegar (August 20th). 

6. Prepare the tomato sauce for breakfast to-morrow. It can be 
made hot in the morning (July 15th). 



July 15th. 



Breakfast. 




Luncheon, 


Dinner. 


Pickled HeiTiugs. 




Boiled Ham. 


Fried Plaice. 


Eggs in Sunsliine. 




Broad Beaus. 


Dutch Sauce. 


Hot Buttered Toast. 




Maitre d'Hotel Sauce. 


Chicken Fricasseed. 


Dry Toast. 




Suet Pudding. 


Potatoes. 


Marmalade. 






Cauliflower. 


Brown and Wliite 


Bread 




Brown Bread and Butter 


and Butter. 






Pudding. 


Fried Hominy. 






Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— About half a peck of Broad or Windsor Beans ; two pennyworth 
of Parsley ; a thick Plaice (April 21st) ; a couple of plump young Chickens 
(June 20th) ; a quarter of a pound of firm Kidney Suet ; Potatoes ; Cauli- 
llower. 

For To-morrow.— Muffins (January 29th) ; half a pound of Naples Macaroni. 
Order for to-morrow one or a couple of tame Rabbits. A quarter of a pint of 
Cream, for the curry. 

Breakfast. — Eggs in Sunshine. — Take an earthenware dish that 
will stand the fire and also that can be sent to table. Butter it well, 
sprinkle a little salt upon it, break into it as many eggs as are 
required, and put it on the top of the range, or in the oven for a 
couple of minutes till the eggs are set. Plave rea,dy some good 
tomato sauce, pour it over the eggs, and serve.^ If preferred, the 
tomatoes can be simply baked (July 7th) and laid on the eggs. To 
rnahe Tomato Sauce. — Take half a dozen ripe tomatoes. Trim away 
the stalks, scoop out the seeds, cut the fruit in slices, and put th^m 
in a stewpan, with a quarter of a pint of water, an ounce of butter, 
and a little pepper and salt. If liked, a sliced onion, a bay-leaf, 
and a pinch of thyme can be added. Simmer gently with the 
stewpan well covered for about three-quarters of an hour, or till 
the tomatoes are quite tender. Stir tliem frequently, or they will 
burn- Rub them through a sieve. ISIelt an ounce of butter in a 
stewpan, and mix smoothly with it half an ounce of flour. Beat 
it over the fire wdth the back of a wooden spoon till it is well cooked. 
Take the pan off the fire, add gradually the tomato purde, and a gill 
of stock. Return the sauce to the ste\\q^an, boil again till thick, and 
serve. Tomato Sauce from Preserved Tomatoes. — If preserved 
tomatoes are to be used instead of fresh tomatoes, proceed exactly 
as directed above, using the pulp from the bottle instead of the 
pur6e that has been rubbed through a sieve. If the shallot flavour 
is liked, one or two sliced shallots, a bay-leaf, and a sprig of thyme, 



258 



A YEARS COOKERY. 



can be stewed with the sauce, and removed before serving. Half 
these quantities will be enough for breakfast. Fried Hominy (Feb- 
ruary 12th). 

Luncheon. —Boiled Ham (Note 4, May 27th) ; Broad Beans. 
— Follow the recipe given for boiling green peas (July 12th). Young 
beans will be done enough in twenty minutes, old ones will need to 
boil half an hour or more. Maitre , d'Hotel Sauce (May 6th) ; Plain 
Suet Dumpling (May 13th). 

Dinner.— Fried Plaice (April 21st) ; Dutch Sauce (May 14th) ; 
Chicken Fricasseed (July 28th) ; Potatoes (April 12 th) ; Cauliflower 
(April 25th) ; Brown Bread and Butter Pudding (July 20th) ; Cheese 
(June 8th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Turn and rub the tongue in the brine. 

2. Turn and rub the mutton in the pickle. 

3. Turn over the herrings in the vinegar. 

4. Make hydropathic red currant pudding for to-morrow (June 
i6th). 



Breakfast. 

Pickled Herrings 

Boiled Ham. 

Muffins. 

Dry Toast. 

Brown and Wliite Bread 

and Butter. 
Milk Porridge. 



July 16th, 

Luncheon. 

Scotch CoUops. 
Italian Macaroni. 



Dinner. 

Gravy Soup. 

Tame Rabbits, Ciu'ried. 

Boiled Eice. 

Potatoes. 

Hydropathic Red Currant 

Padding. 
Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Bay.— A pound and a half of Buttock Steak (Januari' 1st) ; one pound 
■ o£ Red Ciin'auts. 

For To-morrow.— A tin of Sardines (January 12th) ; Sea Biscuits. Wlien the 
v/cather is very hot, cold meat is often preferred to hot meat. If this is 
the case, the Le.c; of Lamb which is intended for dinner to-morrow may he 
bought and cooked to-day, then put into a meat safe, and salad can be 
served instead of green peas. 



BiiEAKFyVST. — Pickled Herrings (August 20th); Boiled Ham 
(Note 4, May 27th) ; Muffins (January 30th) ; Milk Porridge (June 
13th). 

Luncheon. — Scotch Collops (January 9th) ; Italian Macaroni 
(July 7th). 

Dinner. — Gravy- Soup (September 22nd), stock made of chicken 
bones. Tame Rabbits Curried. — The quantities given are for one 
rabbit. Skin the rabbit, wash it quickly, _ and cut it into neat 
joints convenient for serving. Dry them in a cloth. Pare and 
chop small two onions. Fry them in a good slice of butter or sweet 
dripping, and when they are brown, without being at all burnt. 



A YEAKS COOKERY. 



259 



take them up, and fry tlie pieces of rabbit in the same fat. Turn 
them about for about ten minutes and let them be equally fried all 
over. Take them up, and let them drain. Put the fried onions in 
a stewpan with a sour apple chopped small (or half a dozen green 
gooseberries, if more convenient), and a pint of stock. Mix in a basin 
a dessert-spoonful of Captain White's curry paste, a tea-spoonful of 
curry powder, half a tea-spoonful of salt, and a dessert-spoonful of 
ground, rice. Beat this to a smooth pasjte with a little stock, stir it 
into the sauce, and simmer till the onions are soft, then rub the 
whole carefully through a hair sieve. Return the sauce to the stew- 
pan, add the pieces of rabbit, and simmer as gently as possible for 
two hours. At the end of that time stir in a quarter of a pint of 
cream. Lift the curry off the fire, taste it, if not sufficiently acid 
add a little lemon-juice, and serve with boiled rice round the dish. A 
pound and a half of lean veal or a chicken can be substituted for the 
rabbit in this recipe. Boiled Eice (July 21st); Potatoes (May 12th): 
Hydropathic Red Currant Pudding (June 16th); Cheese (June 8th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Turn and rub the tongue in the brine. 

2. Turn and rub the mutton in the pickle. 

3. Pick the meat from the ham-bone and pot the ham for breakfast 
to-morrow (April 15th) ; cooked ham will not need to be baked. 

4. Wash a tea-cupful of large sago, and let it soak all night in a 
pint and a half of cold water. 



July I7th, 



Breakfast. 


Luncheon. 


Dinner. 


Sarcliiies. 


Meat Patties. 


Soles Tried. 


Potted Ham. 


Sago Mould. 


Ancliovy Sauce 


Hot Toast. 




Roast Leg of Lamb. 


Brown and White Bread 




Mint Saiice. 


and Butter. 




Potatoes. 


Marmalade. 




Green Peas. 


Biscuits and Milk. 




Devonsliire Jnnket. 
Fresli Strawberries. 






Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For tine Day.— A pair of thick Soles ; a plump Leg of Lamb ; fresh Mint ; New 
Potatoes; Green Peas ; a bottle of prepared Rennet fi'om the chemist's : half 
a pint of Red Currants for the sago ; fresh Strawberries ; a pennyworth of 
fresli German Yeast ; Cherries, for the pie. 

For To-morrow.— Anchovies, if not' in the house; three or four plump 
Sheep's Kidneys; one pound of Vienna Flour; a pennyworth of SmaU 
Salad. 

Breakfast. — Sardines (January 12th) ; Potted Ham (April 15th); 
Biscuits and Milk (June 14th). 

Luncheon. — Meat Patties. — Collect the remnants of meat from 



260 A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



the fricasseed chickens, the potted ham, and th« Scotch colloi>o. 
Trim away the skin, and mince the meat as finely as possible. For 
three-quarters of a pound of meat melt an ounce of butter in a 
stewjoan, and stir in smoothly an ounce of flour, and afterwards a 
quarter of a pint of strong stock made from the chicken bones. 
When the sauce is thick add half the quantity of cream, if it is to 
be had ; if not, milk must be used, and season with pepper and salt 
to taste, and a very little grated nutmeg. Take the pan off the 
fire and mix the mince with the sauce. If three or four mush- 
rooms or champignons can be added the mince will be all the 
nicer. Turn the preparation on a dish, cover it with greased 
paper, and let it remain till cold. When the pastry (April 17th) 
is being made to-day take as much as is likely to be required, roll 
it out to the thickness of an eighth of an inch, and stamp it with a 
cutter into rounds two inches in diameter. Gather the trimmings, 
roll them again, and stamp them with the same cutter until there 
are as many rounds as are required. Place a spoonful of the 
mince on the centre of one half of the rounds, moisten the pastry 
round the edge vvibh water, and lay the other rounds evenly on 
the top. Press the rounds together "v\dth the top of a cutter, 
brush them over-mth egg, place them on a greased baking- tin, 
and bake in a well-heated oven till the pastry is done enough. 
Scrape a little of the pastry off the bottom of each patty, and serve 
hot on a dish covered with a napkin. If liked, fruit can be sub- 
stituted for the mincemeat in this recipe. Sago JMould (October 8th). 
Dinner. — Soles, Fried (]March 24th). Anchovi/ Sauce. — Stir a 
table-s]^oonful of anchovy sauce into half a pint of melted butter. 
To make Melted Butter.— '^sloM an ounce of butter in a small sauce- 
pan. Draw the pan back, and mix in gradually half an ounce of 
flour. Cook the paste for a minute, beating it all the time with the 
back of a wooden spoon. If this is done the sauce will not be likely 
to oil ; then add half a pint of cold water, a little at a time, and 
stir the sauce till it boils. Boil for three minutes, and serve. This 
sauce forms the basis of many sauces. Eoast Leg of Lamb (March 
4tli); INIint Sauce (March 25th) ; Potatoes (April 12th) ; Green Peas 
(July 12th); Devonshire Junket (September I7th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Turn and rub the tongue in the brine. 

2. Turn and rub the mutton in the pickle. 

3. Pastry is to be made to-day (April 17th) : Meat patties, cherry 
pie (August 7th), also Sally Lunns (August 26th), and Annie's cake 
(September 25th). 

4 Make a semolina mould for luncheon to-morrow (July 23rd). 

5. Prepare the anchovies and the small salad for breakfast to- 
morrow {see Note 4, January 17th). 

6. Partially prepare the rice and barley porridge for to-morrow 
(Note 6, June 15th). 



A YEARS COOKERY, 



263 



July 18th. 



Breakfast. 


Luncheon. 


Dinner. 


Anchovies and Hard-boiled 


Cold Lamb. 


Milk Soxxp. 


Eggs. 


Mint Sauce. 


Norman Haricot. 


Stewed Kidneys. 


Semolina Mould. 


Green Peas. 


Sally Tiiums. 




Custard Blancmange, with 


Dry Toast. 




Compote of Cherries. 


iJrown and Wiiite Bread 




Cheese. 


and Butter. 






Honey. 






Eice and Barley Porridge. 







Marketing. 

For the Day.— Half a peck of Peas ; one pound of Cherries ; a slice of lean 
Veal from the fillet, weighing from two to three poimds, or, if preferred, 
Veal Cutlets can be taken from the neck or loin ; one pound of Bacon in 
rashers (half of tliis is for breakfast to-morrow). 

For To-morrow.— Small Soles, " SUps " (see January 3rd) ; two pounds or more 
of the tail end of a lai-ge Salmon, The tail end is the cheapest part of the 
fish. A little more should be procured than is likely to be wanted for 
dinner, as Salnxon I\Iayonnaise is to be served for supper. A couple of 
Chickens ; Potatoes ; Cauliflower ; one poxmd of Red Currants ; a dozen 
Apricots, if cheap ; ingredients for Salad, two Lettuces, Small Salad, &c. ; 
six ounces or more of firm Kidney Suet for the Fruit Dumpling ; Bloaters, 
for July 20th. 

Breakfast. — Anchovies and Hard-boiled Eggs (January 18tli). 
Stewed Kidneys (April 16tli) ; Sally Lunns (June 4tli) ; Rice and 
Barley Porridge (June 15tli). 

Luncheon. — Lamb served yesterday ; Mint Sauce (March 25tli) ] 
Semolina Mould (July 23rd). 

Dinner. — Milk Soup (January 3rd); Norman Haricot (August 
24tli) ; Green Peas (July 12tli) ; Custard Blancmange (August 4tli) ; 
Compote of Cherries (August 5tli) ; Cheese (June 8th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Turn the tongue in the brine and the mutton in the pickle. 

2. Make mayonnaise for supper to-morrow night (August 30th). 



Sunday, July 19th. 



Breal£fast. 

Baked Slips. 
Toasted Bacon. 
Sally Limus. 
Dry Toast. 
Browii aud White 
Bread and Butter. 
Milk Toast. 



Dinner. 

Salmon Cutlets. 

Boiled Chickens, 
with Golden Eain. 

EoUed Bacon. 

Potatoes. 

French Beans. 

Eed Ctu-rant Dump- 
ling. 

Sweet Sauce. 

Cheese. 



Tea. 

Brown and White 
Bread and Butter. 

Compote of Apri- 
cots. 

Annie's Cake. 



Supper. 

Mayonnaise of 

Salmon. 
Chen-y Pie. 
Cheese, 



Breakfast. — Baked Slips (January 7th) ; Toasted Bacon 
(January 19th) ; Sally Lunns (June 4th) ; Milk Toast (June 17th), 



262 A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



Dinner. — Salmon Cutlets. — Divide the salmon into neat rounda 
a quarter of an inch thick, and about three inches across. Dip 
each one in a mixture of flour and curry powder, and fry the 
cutlets in hot fat till they are lightly browned (Januaiy 17th). 
They will be best done in a frying-basket, but they can also be 
cooked by being put into a frying-pan with a slice of butter 
melted, being turned over when half done. Mince half a shallot 
fiaelj^, fry it in a little butter, and sprinkle over it a table- 
spoonful of flour and another of cuny powder. Add half a pint 
of stock, and stir the sauce till it thickens, and throw in a large 
table-spoonful of mixed pickles finely chopped. Arrange the cutlets 
in a dish, pour the sauce upon them, and serve. If preferred, the 
salmon cutlets can be egged and breaded, or even floured simply, 
then fried in fat, and accompanied by Anchovy (July 17th), Shrimp 
(January 30th), Caper (March 19th), Dutch (May 14th), or Bdarnaise 
Sauce (March 23rd). Boiled Fowls, with Golden Kain (September 
6th). Rolled Bacon. — Cut some bacon into very thin slices about 
three inches long and an inch and a half wide, roll them up, and 
fasten them with a small skewer to keep them in shape. Lay 
them on a tin, and put them in the oven till sufiiciently cooked ; 
they will take five or six minutes. Hemove the skewer, and serve 
them round the chickens. Potatoes (April 12th) ; French Beans 
(August 16th). Red Currant Diimplwr/. — ]Make this pudding, and 
all boiled fruit puddings, according to the recipe given for beef-steak 
pudding (June 25th), substituting red currants, or any other fruit, 
with a little sugar and water, for the meat and gravy. If much sugar 
is put into the pudding it will be heavy. Boil from two hours and 
a quarter to two hours and three-quarters, according to the size of 
the pudding and the hardness of the fruit. Serve with powdered 
white sugar or sweet sauce. Siceet Sauces- for Puddings. — A very 
plain sauce may be made by adding sugar to melted butter (July 
17th), while the addition of wine or brandy would turn this into 
Wine Sauce or Brandy Sauce. A slightly superior sauce may be 
made by following the recipe for melted butter, but using milk 
instead of water, and flavouring the sauce with nutmeg, vanilla, 
or lemon ; and the addition of the beaten yolk of an Qgg, stirred 
in after the sauce has cooled for a minute, would still further 
enrich this sauce. A very good sauce for simple dry pudding:! 
is made by pouring half a pint of boiling water upon a dessert- 
spoonful of arrowroot mixed to a smooth paste with cold water, then 
adding sugar, lemon-juice, and nutmeg to taste. Cheese (June 8th). 

Tea. — Compote of Apricots (August 5th) ; Annie's Cake (Sep- 
tember 25th). 

SuprER. — Mayonnaise of Salmon (May 24th); Cherry Pie 
(August 7th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 
1. Turn and rub the tongue in the brine and the mutton in the piclda 



A YEARS COOKERY. 



2fi3 



July 20th. 



Breakfast. 


Luncheon. 


Dinner. 


Egg's on the Dish. 


Chicken Kromeskiee. 


Fried Plaice. 


Bloaters. 


Easpberry Fool. 


Dutch Sauce. 


Sally Liiuns. 




Hotch-potch. 


Dry Toast. 




Brown Bread Pudding. 


Brown and White Bread 




Cheese. 


and Butter. 






Honey. 






Corn-flour Milk. 







Marketing. 

For the Day.— One pound of Raspberries. If these are not procurable, green 
gooseberries, strawberries, or rliubarb may be used instead. A thick Plaice 
(April 21st) ; materials for Hotch-potch (Marketing, July 10th) ; four fresh 
Mackerel. 

For To-morrow.— A quarter of a pound of Bacon in rashers ; three or four 
fresh Tomatoes. 

Beeakfast. — Eggs on the Dish (December 7th); Bloaters (January 
3rd) ; Sally Lunns (June 4th) ; Corn-flour Milk (June 19th). 

Luncheon. — Chicken Kromeskies (July 29th). Raspberry Fool, — 
Proceed as directed for Gooseberry Fool (June 24th). 

Dinner.— Fried Plaice (April 21st) ; Dutch Sauce (May 14th) ; 
Hotch-potch (July 10th). Brown Bread Pudding. — Collect the pieces 
of stale brown bread there may be in the house, break them up into 
very small pieces, and put as many as will weigh 6 ozs. in a basin. 
Pour upon them the third of a pint of boiling milk, place a plate 
on the basin, and let the bread soak till soft. Squeeze the pudding 
dry, beat it well with a fork, and take out any hard pieces there may 
be in it ; then add two ounces of good brown sugar, the grated rind 
of a large fresh lemon, and twenty drops of Vanilla essence. Mix 
thoroughly, and add two well-beaten eggs. Put the mixture into a 
pint mould that has been well buttered, place a piece of greased 
paper on the top, and steam it for an hour and a quarter. Turn 
it on a hot dish, and serve. For a superior pudding, the yolks of 
four eggs and the whites of two may be used, and a little cream 
may be put with the milk. When two eggs only are used, the 
I)udding must be squeezed dry before the eggs are added, or it 
will not turn out. This pudding will be much improved if a little 
whip sauce is poured round it. Whi2:> Sauce. — Put the yolks of 
two eggs into a gallipot, with a dessert-spoonful of sifted sugar, a 
glass of common white wine (orange wine will do for the purpose), 
the grated rind of a lemon, and a very small piece of cinnamon. 
Set the gallipot in a small stewpan which has in it hot water to 
the depth of two inches, put it on the fire, and whisk the sauce till 
it comes to a thick froth, then pour it round the pudding. If 
preferred, fruit syrup and a Httle milk may be used instead of wine. 
This sauce must not be allowed to boil. Cheese (June 8th), 



264 



A YEARS COOKERY. 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Turn and rub the tongue in the brine and the mutton in the 
pickle. 

2. Pickle the mackerel for breakfast to-morrow (August 28th). 



July 21st. 



Breakfast. 



Pickled Mackerel. 
Tomatoes and Bacon. 
Hot Buttered Toast. 
Dry Toast. 
Brown and White Bread 

and Butter. 
Milk Toast. 



Luncheon. 

Remains of Hotcli-iiotch. 
Devilled Eggs. 



Dinner. 



Soles, Rolled and Baked, 
with Brown Butter Sauce. 
Curried Veal. 
Boiled Rice. 
Red Rice. 
Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— A pair of thick Soles, filleted (January 3rd) ; a slice of lean Veal 
from the Fillet, weighing from two and a half to three pounds; a pound and 
a half of Red Currants and a pottle of Raspberries for the pudding. 

For To-morrow.— A small tm of Corned Beef; Mulllns (January 29th) ; half a 
pound of Naples Macaroni (January 1st). 

Breakfast. — Pickled Mackerel (August 28th); Tomatoes and 
Bacon (July 12th) ; Milk Toast (June 17th). 

Luncheon. — Hotch Potch served yesterday ; Devilled Eggs 
(February 27tli). 

Dinner. — Soles, Ptolled and Baked (March 1st); Bro^Ti Butter 
Sauce (February 12th). Curried Veal. — Follow in all respects the 
recipe given for Curried Ptabbit (July 16th). Eice Boiled for Cv^rry. 
— Patna rice is the best for this purpose. Wash the rice well two or 
three times in cold water to take away the raw taste from it. Pick 
away the discoloured grains, and throw it into plenty of fast-boiling 
water slightly salted, and let it boil quickly until a grain feels tender 
when taken between the thumb and finger. It will take fifteen or 
twenty minutes, and should on no account be allowed to boil until it 
forms a pulpy mass, as it is an object to keep the grains separate. 
Drain it in a colander, and let cold water run on it a minute or 
two to separate the grains. Dry the stewijan near the fire, put the 
rice into it, let it stand on the range with the lid half on, and shake 
it occasionally till it is dry and quite hot. Pile it round the curry 
like a wall, and serve. Ked Bice (December 10th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Turn the tongue in the brine and the mutton in the pickle. 

2. Turn the pieces of mackerel in the pickle, and keep in a cool 
place. If this is done, the fish Avill keep for three or four days. 

3. Take care of any rice that may be left. Very good pudding 
can be made of it for to-morrow. 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



265 



Breakfast. 

Pickled Mackerel. 

Corned Beef. 

Muffins. 

Dry Toast. 

Brown and White Bread 

and Butter. 
Oatmeal Porridge. 



July 22nd. 

Luncheon. 

Macaroni k la Milanaise, 
Baked Plum Pudding. 



I Dinner. 

1 Crcfite au Pot. 
! Soiu' Miitton. 

Potatoes. 

French. Beans. 

Rice Mould. 

Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— A quarter of a poniKl of Beef Suet ; French Beans ; a penny- 
worth of Parsley ; a pennyworth of Mint ; a pound of ripe Tomatoes. 

For To-morrow.— Half a pint of freshly boiled picked Shrimps. If the shrimps 
are not quite fresh they will not be good to-morrow. Watercress; fresh 
Fruit for breakfast. 

Breakfast.— Pickled Mackerel (August 28th) ; Corned Beef 
bought yesterday ; Muffins (January 30th) ; Oatmeal Porridge (January 
25th). 

Luncheon.— J/a^a?'o?^^ a la Milanaise.— Follow the recipe given 
for Italian macaroni (July 7th), Have ready a little tomato sauce 
(July 15th), and just before serving the macaroni pour the tomato 
sauce over it. One or two mutton cutlets will be very good served 
with this dish. If preferred, to save trouble, the tomatoes can be 
baked (July 7th). Baked Phmi Pudding (February 25th). 

DiNl^fER.— Croute au Pot (May 25th) ; Sour ]\Iutton (i\Iarch 29th) ; 
Potatoes (April 12th^ ; French Beans (August 16th) ; Rice IMould 
(April 27th) ; Cheese '(June 8th). 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Turn and rub the tongue in the brine. 

2. Put the shrimps in a cool place and cover them with muslin. 



July 23rd 



Breakfast. 

Battered Shrimps. 

Corned Beef. 

Hot Buttered Toast. 

Dry Toast. 

Brown and White Bread 

and Batter. 
Watercress. 
Fresh Fruit with Milk. 



Luncheon. 

stuffed Tomatoes. 
Toad-in-ths-Hole. 



Dinner. 

Hahbnt Cutlets. 

Cold Mutton. 

Salad. 

Cucumber. 

New Potatoes. 

Newmarket Pudding. 

Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— Five or six large ripe Tomatoes ; a pound and a half of Buttock 
Steak ; three or four pounds of Halibut (Marketing, June 2.3rd) : a fresh 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



cucumber ; a Lettuce ; a half -pennyworth of Beet-root ; a half -pennyworth of 
young Onions ; Potatoes. 
For To-morrow.— Four plump young Kidneys; half a pound of Bacon in 
rashers ; Mustard and Cress. 

BiiEAKFAST. — Buttered Shrimps. — Melt an ounce of butter in a 
saucepan, and mix an ounce of flour smoothly with it. Add 
gradually half a pint of stock, and stir the sauce till it thickens. 
Put in the shrimps, and let them simmer for a minute or two, but not 
boil. Toast a round of bread, and butter it well, pour the i^reparation 
upon it, and serve very hot. If liked, milk or cream can be used 
instead of stock. 

Luncheon. — Stuffed Tomatoes. — Make a savoury forcemeat by 
mixing together a slice of the corned beef, finely minced, and an 
ounce of lean ham, half a shallot chopped small, a table-spoonful of 
chopped parsley, two table-spoonfuls of bread-crumbs, two or three 
mushrooms, if they are to be had, and a little butter. Bind the 
forcemeat together with the yolk of an egg. Take a slice from the 
stalk end of the tomatoes ; scoop out the seeds without breaking 
the fruit, and fill the vacant place with the mince. Shake brown 
bread-raspings (January 2nd) on the top, put the tomatoes, side by 
side, in a greased baking-tin, invert a dish over them to cover 
them, and bake in a brisk oven for about a quarter of an hour 
till they are cooked. If liked, a little brown gravy may be served 
round the tomatoes, but they are very good without. ^ Toad-in-the- 
Hoie (January 15th). Use the buttock steak for this dish. 

Dinner. — Halibut Cutlets (June 23rd) ; Mutton served yester- 
day. If hot meat is preferred, see Index. In hot weather cold meat 
and salad often proves very acceptable. Salad (March 13th) ; Cucumber 
(May 19th) ; New Potatoes (April 12th) ; Newmarket Pudding (June 
2nd) ; Cheese (June 8th). 



Tilings that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Turn the tongue in the brine. 

2. Make a Semolina Moidd for luncheon to-morrow. Mix two 
table-spoonfuls of semolina with cold milk, and add more milk to 
make the quantity up to one pint. Put the mixture into a saucepan, 
stir it without ceasing for ten minutes, and then draw it back and let 
it simmer for an hour, stirring it occasionally. ^ Sweeten it to taste, 
and turn it into a damp mould. To-morrow it can be turned out, 
and will be very good eaten with jam or sugar and cream. 

3. When preparing the watercress for breakfast, put aside a sprig 
or two for the salad. 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



2fi7 



July 24th. 



Breakfast. 


Luncheon. 


Dinner. 


Fried Kidneys and Bacon. 


Mutton, Minced. 


BoHed Brill. 


Mustard and Cress. 


Semolina Mould, with 


Neapolitan Sauce. 


Hot Buttered Toast. 


Rhubarb Jam, 


Fricassee of CMcken. 


Dry Toast. 




Bacon Eolls. 


Brown and WMte Bread 




Cauliflower. 


and Biitter. 




Potatoes. 


Corn-flour Milk. 




Chocolate Pudding. 
Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— A moderate-sized Brill (January 9th) ; quarter of a pint of picked 
Shrimps, for sauce; one or two plump Chickens; quarter of a poimd of 
Streaky Bacon; Cauliflower; Potatoes; half a pound of best French 
Chocolate. 

For To-morrow.— Muffins (January 29th) ; half a pound of Red Currants for 
juice. The Kam is supposed to be in the house. 



Beeakfast. — Kidneys and Bacon (January 2nd) ; Corn-flour 
Milk (June lOth). 

LuisrcHEON. — Cut all the meat from the leg of mutton, mince it, and 
serve with sippets (January 20th) ; Semolina Mould make yesterday. 

Dinner. — Boiled Brill (January 9th) ; Neapolitan Sauce (Feb- 
ruary 8th) ; Fricassee of Chicken (July 28th); Bacon PvoUs (July 
19th) ; Cauliflower (April 25th) ; Potatoes (April 12th). Chocolate 
Padding. — BoU half a pound of grated chocolate in one-third of a 
pint of milk for ten minutes. Stir in when hot an ounce of butter 
and an ounce and a half of sugar, and when cool add the yolks of 
two eggs. Beat the whites of the eggs to a froth, and break them in 
lightly just before steaming the pudding. Butter the inside of a 
mould with the fingers, and sprinkle two ounces of powdered rusks 
upon the butter. Put in the chocolate, lay a buttered paper on the 
top of the pudding, and steam it for an hour and a quarter. (Treacle 
Pudding, March 28th). Turn out carefully, and serve with a pint of 
good custard (August 10th) round the pudding. Cheese (June 8th). 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Turn and rub the tongue in the pickle. 

2. Pastry is usually made on Friday, but as a pigeon pie is to be 
made for Sunday, and as it will not keep well for more than a day or 
so, it will be better to defer the business until to-morrow. 

3. JMake the sago mould for luncheon to-morrow, and let it stand 
in a cool place till wanted (October 8th). 



A YE Alts COOKERY. 



Breakfast. 

Fried Ham. 

Fried Eggs. 

Muffins. 

Dry Toast. 

Brown and Wliite 

and Butter. 
Bread and Milk. 



Bread 



July 25th, 

Lunckeon. 

Rice and Cheese. 
Sago MoiUd. 



Dinner. 

Soles an Gratin. 
Veal, Stewed. 
Green Peas, 
Young Carrots. 
Potatoes. 

Viennoise Pudding. 
Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— A pair of thick Soles (January 3rd); three or four pounds of 
the Loin, Neck, or Breast of Veal; Green Peas; Young Carrots; New 
Potatoes ; three pliunp Young Pigeons ; a slice of Beef or Veal (May 15th). 

For To-morrow.— A moderate-sized Turbot, filleted (June 6th) ; a couple of 
Ducks (Jul}' 4th); Green Peas ; Endive; ingredients for a Salad ; six ounce3 
of firm Beef Suet ; one or two pairs of Lambs' Sweetbreads ; Bacon. 



Breakfast.— Fried Ham (March 5tli) ; Fried Eggs (March 5th) ; 
Muffins (January 30th) ; Bread and ^lilk (January 25th). 

Luncheon. — Bice and Cheese (February 18th); Sago Mould made 
yesterday. 

Dinner. — Soles au Gratin (May 3rd). Veal Stewed. — Divide the 
veal into chops or neat pieces convenient for serving. Melt a slice of 
butter in a stewpan, put in the veal, which has been peppered, salted, 
and dredged with Hour, and let it fry until it is lightly coloured upon 
both sides. Pour in gradually boiling stock or water to cover it, and 
let the meat simmer very gently for an hour. Put with it a dozen 
young carrots, half a dozen young onions, if the flavour is liked, 
a bunch of parsley, a sprig of thyme, and a little pepper and salt. 
Then simmer till the vegetables are done enough. Place the meat 
and vegetables upon a dish, put with the sauce two ripe tomatoes 
broken small, and a little mushroom ketchup. Boil the sauce two 
or three minutes (if not sufficiently acid add a little lemon-juice), 
pour it round the meat, and serve. Send new potatoes (April 12th) 
and green peas (July 12th) to table as accompaniments to this dish. 
Viennoise Pudding (July 6th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Turn and rub the tongue in the brine. 

2. Put a cupful of hominy to soak (February 10th). 

3. Wash and trim the sweetbreads, and boil them gently till they 
are firm in as much stock as will cover them (Note 3, July 4th). 

4. Pastry is to be made to-day (April 17th) : a pigeon pie (May 
15th) and a cherry pie (August 7th) ; also teacakes (August 26th), 
and rice cake (August 2nd). 

5. The custard blancmange may be made for supper to-morrow 
night (August 4th), 



A YEAR'S COOKERY, 



239 



Sunday, July 26th, 



Breakfast. 


Dinner. 


Tea, 


Supper. 


Lambs' Sweet- 


FiUeted Turbot. 


Brown and White 


Pigeon Pie. 


breads. 


Roast Ducklings. 


Bread and Butter, 


Salad. 


Eolled Bacon. 


Green Peas. 


Strawben-y Jam. 


Custard Blanc- 


Teacakes. 


Cken-y Pie. 


Eice Cake. 


mange. 


Dry Toast. 


Cheese. 




Lemon Syrup. 


Llarmalade. 






Cheese. 


Brown and Wbite 








Bread and Butter. 








Boiled Hominy. 









Breakfast. — Lambs' Sweetbreads (July 4tli) ; Bacon Rolls (Jiily 
19tii); Teacakes (February 14tli); Boiled Hominy (February 11th). 

Dinner.— Filleted Turbot _ (June 21st). Boast DucMmr/s.—Stuii 
the ducks with sage and onion stuffing such as is used for roa.st 
goose (September 29th). If this is objected to, it can be omitted. 
Put the birds down to a brisk clear fire, and baste them well till 
done enough. Send them to table Mdth good brown gravy (made by 
stewing the necks, gizzards, and livers with onions) poured round 
but^ not over them (September 29th). Besides green peas, stewed 
endive, young turnips tossed in butter, and any kind of salad may 
be served as an accompaniment. BotJi ducks and ducklings should 
be well cooked. Ducklings require fully haK an hour's roasting ; 
ducks about one hour. Green Peas (July 12th) ; Stewed Endive 
(December 5th) • Cherry Pie (August 7th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 

Tea. — Pvice Cake (August 2nd). 

Supper.— Pigeon Pie (May 15th) ; Salad (^larch 13th) ; Custard 
Blancmange made yesterday ; Lemon Syrup (March 19th). 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Turn and rub the tongue in the brine. 

2. Carefully preserve any fish and sauce that may be left 



Breakfast. 

Remains of Pigeon -Pie. 

Boiled Eggs. 

Teacakes. 

Dry Toast. 

Brown and White Bread 

and Butter. 
Fried Hominy. 



July 27th, 

Luncheon. 

Fish Pie. 

Baked Batter Pudding. 



Dinner. 

Potato Puree. 

Eolled Loin of Mutton. 

Potatoes, 

French Beans. 

Treacle Puddiiig, 

Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— About thrco ponnd.s of the best end of a Loin of Mutt on; 
Potatoes ; French Beans ; four ounces of Beef Suet for the treacle puddinjf. 



270 A YEARS COOKERY. 



When the weather is hot, it is very desirable that the purchase of large j oints 
should be avoided, and that no more meat should be procui-ed than is likely 
to be immediately used. In cold weather beef and mutton are made more 
tender by being kept for awhile, but in hot weather meat taints quickly, and 
therefore it is not safe to keep it. Young meat, such as veal and lamb, is 
better for being freshly killed. In hot \\^eather it is important that all pipes 
and veins should be cut away from meat as soon as it comes into the housCf 
and the joint should either be put into the meat-safe or covered with muslin 
and hung till wanted in a cool airy place. Many cooks pepper the joint to 
keep away the flies. It is better not to lay it on a dish, as the pressure 
might cause taint on the under part. If meat must be kept for a day or two, 
it should be examined frequently, say twice a day, and if there is any sign 
that it is likely to become decomposed, it should be washed in vinegar and 
water and cooked as soon as possible ; or if this is inconvenient, it may, 
after washing, be plunged into boiling water which has a little piece of 
charcoal in it, boiled quickly for four minutes, dried thoroughly, and hung 
up again. Meat that is slightly tainted should be washed m water in which 
a little permanganate of potash, enough to redden the liquid, has been dis- 
solved. This can be procured for threepence or fourpence of any chemist. If 
the meat is ^ery decidedly tainted it should not be used, as it is sure to 
be unwholesome. In hot weather cold meat is very generally preferred to 
hot meat, therefore Beef, Mutton, or Lamb may with advantage be cooked 
and served cold, rather than be kept when it is not likely to keep. 
For To-morrow.— A tin of Sardines (January 12th). 

Breakfast. — Pigeon Pie served yesterday ; Boiled Eggs (January 
5th) ; Teacakes (February 14tli) ; Fried Hominy (February 12tli). 

LuxcHEON. — Fish Pie (January 2nd) ; Baked Batter Pudding 
(February 5th). 

Dinner. — Potato Puree (January 26th) ; Polled Loin of Mutton 
(April 22nd) ; Potatoes (April 12tli) ; French Beans (August 16th) ; 
Treacle Pudding (March 28th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Boil the tongue. A tongue^ is_ never so good as when cooked 
straight from the pickle. Wash it in one or two waters, put it in a 
pan with cold water, bring it slowly to a boil, and simmer it gently 
till done. It will take from three and a half to four hours, but it 
should lie tried occasionally, and if the skin will peel off easily it 
is a sign that it is sufficiently boiled. It should be skinned whilst 
hot. The most economical way of serving it is to roll it tightly with 
the tip of the tongoie turned inside, and press it into a round cake-tin 
or jar, and put a plate with a heavy weight on the top of it. When 
]irepared in this Avay the root and all can be used. If liked, the 
liquor in which it is boiled can be made into glaze and brushed 
over the sides of the tongue (March 21st). If it is not convenient 
to cook the tongue at once, it should be himg to dry in a cool place, 
and wrapped in cotton when dry. 

2. If the brine can be used again, it will be well to pickle another 
tongue, as the liquor can scarcely be used for beef after the tongue 
has been in it 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



u\ 



July 28th. 



Breakfast. 


Luncheon. 


Dinner. 


Sardines. 


Cold Mutton. 


Milk Soup. 


Rolled Tongue. 


Salad. 


Fowl Fricasseed. 


Teacakes. 


Macaroni Cheese. 


Potatoes. 


Dry Toast. 




French Beans. 


Brown and Wliite Bread 




Leche Crfeme. 


and Butter. 




Cheese. 


Maraialade. 






Milk Porridge. 







Mai'keting. 

For the Day.— A Cos Lettuce ; small Salad ; Watercress ; Beetroot ; half a 
pound of Naples Macaroni (January 1st) ; French Beans ; IVIint ; Parsley ; a 
plump young Fowl ; half a pint of fresh IMushrooms or a tin of Champignons ; 
half a poimd of Tomatoes ; New Potatoes ; Ratafias. 

For To-morrow.— Order a Tame Rabbit to be sent in the morning. 



Breakfast. — Sardines (January 12tli) ; Eolled Tongue, boiled 
yesterday ; Teacakes (February 14th); Milk Porridge (June 13tli). 

Luncheon. — Mutton roasted yesterday ; Salad (March 13th) ; 
Macaroni Cheese (March 20th). 

Dinner. — ;Milk Soup (January 3rd). Fowl Fricasseed. — Draw 
the fowl, and cut it into small, neat joints convenient for serving. 
Put these into a stewpan, with shallot, two or three strips of bacon- 
rind scalded and scraped, or an ounce of lean ham, two cloves, two 
small carrots, a bouquet garni (that is, a bunch of parsley, a sprig of 
tliyme, and a bay-leaf tied together), and half a blade of mace. Pour 
over all enough stock to barely cover the fowl, add pepper and salt, 
and simmer gently for half an hour. At the end of that time put 
the pan on one side, drain the stock into a basin, and when it is 
cold free it from grease. INIeantime wash and peel the mushrooms, 
and put them into a separate stewpan, with a small slice of butter, 
a squeeze of lemon-juice, and haK a gill of cold water. Let them 
boil once and turn them upon a plate. If champignons are used this 
may be omitted. Melt two ounces of butter in a stewpan, and mix 
smoothly with it one ounce and a haK of flour, add the chicken 
stock and the trimmings from the mushrooms, and simmer all 
gently together, skimming the sauce when necessary till it is 
reduced to a pint. Put the cliicken and the mushrooms into a 
clean saucepan, strain the stock over them, add a quarter of a 
pint of milk, or cream, if it is permitted, with pepper and salt 
to taste, and simmer all gently together till very hot without boil- 
ing. Put the meat on a dish, pour the sauce over, and garnish 
with sippets. Cold chicken may be fricasseed in tlie same way, but 
it will not need the preliminary boiling. Potatoes (April 12th) ; 
French Beans (August 16th); Lcche Creme (May Ttli) ; Cheese 
(June 8th). 



272 



A YEARS COOKERY. 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Preserve any cold chicken that may be left. 

2. Take only one or two sprigs of the watercress for the salad. 
Preserve the rest for breakfast to-morrow. 

3. Make a corn-flour blancmange for luncheon to-morrow (June 
15th). 

July 29th. 



Breakfast. 


Luncheon. 


Dinner. 


Buttered Eggs. 


Chicken Kromeskies. 


Filleted Sole Saiit^. 


Rolled Tougue. 


Corn-floivr Blancmange. 


Anchovj' Sauce. 


Hot Toast. 




Tame Eabbit, Cimied. 


Dry Toast. 




Boiled Rice. 


Brown and Wliite Bread 




Potatoes. 


and Butter. 




Cabbage. 


Watercress. 




Queen's Pudding. 


Biscidts and Milk. 




Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— A small piece of fat Bacon; a pair of thick Soles, fllleted 
(.January 3rd) ; one or a pair of tame Rabbits, cut into neat joints ; Potatoes ; 
Cabbage ; a dozen fresh Herrings. 

For To-moiTOW.— A pennyworth of Small Salad. 

Breakfast. — Buttered Eggs (January 16th) ; Tongue boiled day 
before yesterday ; Biscuits and Milk (June 14th). 

Luncheon. — Chicken Kromesldes. — Kromeskies can be made with 
any kind of cooked poultry, game, fish, veal, or mutton, \yhen 
mutton is used, the addition of a few oysters, fresh or tinned, is an 
improvement. They afford an excellent means of j^resenting cooked 
meat in an agreeable form. They are not really troublesome to make 
when once the process is understood. Boil the bacon and let it go 
cold. Cut all the meat from the chicken bones, mince it finely, and 
season it with pepper and salt if required. Supposing there is a 
quarter of a pound of meat, melt an ounce of butter in a stew^Dan, 
mix it with an ounce of flour, and add one giU of liquor. It is 
probable that in this case there will be a little cold sauce that can be 
used, or if there is none milk can be taken. Stir the mixture 
over the fire till it is smooth and very stiff, then add the mincemeat ; 
turn the preparation upon a plate, and put it on one side to get 
cold. Cut some slices, about three inches long and two wide, and as 
tliin as it is possible, from the fat bacon. Make some Frying Batter 
as follows : — Put a quarter of a pound of flour into a bowl, with a 
pinch of salt, and mix it very smoothly with a gill of lukewarm 
water, then add two table-spoonfuls of salad oil ; this will make tlie 
batter smooth instead of leathery. Just before it is to be used beat 
the whites of two eggs to a firm froth, and dash this, not stir it, 
lightly in. The yolks of the eggs can be used for the pudding. 
Spread a spoonful of the forcemeat upon each piece of bacon, and 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



273 



roll it securely to the shape of a cork. Half fill a stewpan with 
clarified dripping, and put it on the fire till it boils, that is, till it is 
still and a light blue smoke rises from it. When the fat is ready, 
take the kromeskies, one at a time, in a spoon ; dip them into the 
batter, and put them at once, with the batter that is in the spoon 
with them, into the boiling fat. When the batter is lightly browned, 
that is, in less than a minute, the kromeskies will be done enough. 
Lay them as they are done on kitchen-paper to free them from 
grease, and when all are fried put them on a dish covered with a 
fish-paper, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. The kromeskies 
will not be good if the bacon is not cut thin. The batter, directions 
for making which are given, can be used for any kind of fruit fritters. 
Corn Flour Blancmange (June 15th). 

Dinner. — Filleted Sole Saut6 (January 4th) ; Anchovy Sauce 
(July 17th) ; Rabbit, Curried (July 16th) ; Rice, Boiled (July 21st) ; 
Potatoes (April 12th) ; Cabbage (June 4th) ; Queen's Pudding (August 
9th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Pot the remains of the boiled tongue (Note 5, September 26th). 

2. Cleanse the salad, and partially prepare the anchovies (Note 4, 
January 17th). 

3. Pickle the fresh herrings (August 20th). 

4. Prepare the rice and barley for breakfast (Note 6, June 15th). 

5. Soak a cupful of white haricot beans in cold water all night. 



July 30th, 



Breakfast. 


Luncheon. 


Dinner. 


Ancliovies and Hard-ltoaed 


Bated Mackerel. 


Clear Soup, with Savoiiry 


Eggs. 


Gingerbread Pudding. 


Custard. 


Potted Tongiie. 




Norman Haricot, with Pota- 


Hot Blattered Toast. 




toes. 


Dry Toast. 




Haricot Beans. 


Brovm and White Bread 




Viennoise Pudding. 


and Butter. 




Whip Sauce. 


Rice and Barley. 




Cheese. 



Marketing, 

For the Day.— Two moderate-sized Mackerel (April ifh) ; two pounds of Shin 
of Beef, to make stock from fresh meat. If preferred, half beef and half veal 
can be used. Carrots ; Turnip ; Onion ; Leek ; Celery-seed. Bouquet garni. 
A slice of lean Veal from the fillet, weighing about three pounds (February 
25th) ; Potatoes. 

For To-morrow.— Three or four ripe Tomatoes ; half a pound of Bacon. Order 
two Ox-tails. These are usually cheap at this time of the year, because they 
will not keep. Four pennyworth of Cream, or a tin of Devonshire Cream, if 
permitted. 



Breakfast. — Anchovies and Hard-boiled Eggs (January 18th); 
Potted Tongue (Note 5, September 2.6th) j Rice and Barley (June 15th). 



2^4 A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



Luncheon.— Baked Mackerel (April 15tli) ; Gingerbread Pudding 
(May 20tli). 

Dinner. — Clear Soup may be made from fresh meat stock, or by 
using Liebig's Extract of Meat without any stock (Feb. 15th), or it 
may, with care and skill, be made from fresh meat without needing 
clarification. Clear ^ovj? made at once from Fresh Meat. — Allow 
a pint of water for each pound of beef and one pint over. For 
brown soup shin of beef is usually taken, though finer soup would 
be made from buttock steak ; for white soup knuckle of veal is 
required, and a slice of lean ham is an improvement to both. Cut 
the meat, free from fat, into small pieces, and lay these at the 
bottom of a stewpan, with a slice of fresh butter. Cover the 
pan, and let the meat brown on both sides, but be careful to move 
it about, that it may not stick to the pan. Add enough hot water 
to cover the meat, and boil this quickly, still keeping the pan 
covered, till it is reduced to a kind of brown gum, then add cold 
water, a little at a time, bringing the liquor gently to the point of 
boiling ; skim it most carefully until the right quantity of water is 
used. The gradual addition of the cold water will help the scum to 
rise. Add the vegetables (scalded) and flavouring ingredients ; draw 
the pan back, and simmer gently for about three hours. Strain the 
liquor through a jelly-bag without squeezing the meat at all, put the 
stock into a bowl, and when it is cool free it from fat, and pour it 
away from any sediment that may have settled at the bottom. The 
meat will be very good served with vegetables. ':To make Stock 
from Fresh Meal. — Take beef or veal, or a mixture of both, and 
allow the usual proportions — a pint to a pound and a pint oyer. 
Take away every particle of fat, and cut the meat into small dice. 
Put these into a stewpan, pour on the requisite quantity of cold 
water, and add a little salt. Put on the lid, bring the Kquor quickly 
to a boil, skim it carefully, throw in the vegetables, and simmer 
gently for five hours, still skimming the liquor occasionally. A 
carrot, a turnip, a leek, a bunch of parsley, a sprig of thyme, a bay- 
leaf, two or three sticks of celery, and a pinch of herbs will be 
required for three pints of water. Strain the liquor through a sieve 
into a bowl, and when cold remove the fat from the top. The meat 
can be boiled again with fresh vegetables. If clear soup is to be 
made from stock thus prepared it must be clarified either with raw 
beef, as directed for Clear Soup or Julienne (April 9th), or, if 
this is considered too expensive, with white of eggs only. For 
this the whites of the eggs must be whisked with a little cold 
water and stirred into the soup while it is lukewarm, and vvhisked 
till on the point of boiling. It should then be drawn back, 
boiled gently for twenty minutes, allowed to stand for twenty 
minutes, and strained through a jelly-bag. The white of one 
egg will probably be sufficient for a pint and a half of soup. 
White of ^gg., however, impoverishes soup, raw beef enriches it, so 
the latter is much superior to the former. Soup should be clarified 



A YEAR'S COOKERY, 



275 



the same day that it is to be used, as it goes cloudy with keeping. 
Savoury Custard is very good served in_ Clear Soup. To make this, 
take the yolks of two eggs and the white of one ; whisk them, and 
put with them a gill of the clear soup. Turn the custard into a but- 
tered gallipot, cover the top with buttered paper, and place it in a 
saucepan with hot water two or three inches deep. The water must 
not touch the paper. Steam the custard very gently till it is set ; it 
will take about a quarter of an hour. If it is allowed to boil quickly 
the custard will be full of little holes instead of being smooth. Let 
it go cold, then cut it into thin slices with a sharp knife. Shape 
these into small circles or diamonds, place them in the soup, and 
serve. Norman Haricot (August 24th) ; Potatoes (April 12th) ; 
Haricot Beans (June 20th) ; Yienjioise Pudding (July 6th) ; Whip 
Sauce (July 20th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Turn the herrings in the vinegar. 

2. Partially prepare the rice milk for breakfast (Note 3, June 
17th). 



Breakfast. 



Pickled Herrings. | 
Tomatoes and Bacon. 

Hot Buttered Toast. j 
Dry Toast. 

Brown and WMte Bread! 

and Butter. I 

Kice Milk. i 



July 31st. 

Luncheon. 

Minced Veal. 
Custard Sippets. 



Dinner. 

Salmon Cutlets. 

Stewed Ox-tails. 

Potatoes. 

French. Beans. 

Devonshire Junket. 

Cream. 

Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— About a pound and a half of the tail-end of a moderate-sized 
Sahuon. This is the cheapest part of the fish. Potatoes ; French Beans ; Ox- 
tails and Cream, ordered yesterday. 

For To-morrow.— A tin of Potted Grouse. 

Breakfast. — Tomatoes and Bacon (July 12th) ; Rice Milk (June 
18th). 

Luncheon. — Minced Veal (May 11th); Custard Sippets (June 
10th). 

Dinner. — Salmon Cutlets (July 19th) ; Stewed Ox- tails (May 
8th) ; Potatoes (April 12th) ; French Beans (August 16th) ; Devon- 
shire Junket (September 17th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Turn the herrings in the pickle. 

2. Pastry is to be made to-day (April 17th) : Red Currant Tart 
(August 7th) ; and Beef -steak and Mushroom Pie (March 26th); also 
Scones (August 26th) ; and Rice Cake (August 2nd). 



276 A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



FRUITS IN SEASON SUITABLE FOR DESSERT IN 
JULY. 

Pine-apples, Apricots, Cherries, Currants (Black, Red, and Wliite), 
Greengages,- Jersey Grapes, Plums, Raspberries, Strawberries. 



HERBS. 

Herbs sliould be gathered and dried in the following months :— 
Chervil, Elder Flowers, Fennel, and Parsley : ]\Iay, June, and July • 
Mint, Orange Thyme, and Burnet : June and July ; Knotted 
Marjoram and Winter Savory : about the end of July ; Thyme and 
Lemon Thyme, and Summer Savory and Tarragon : July and 
August ; Basil : August ; Sage : August and September. 

Herbs are in best condition for drying just before they begin to 
flower. They should be gathered on a dry day, but not in the heat 
of the sun. The more quickly they are dried the more effectually 
will their flavour be preserved. It is a good plan to put them before 
the fire, being careful that they do not burn. When quite dry the 
leaves should be picked off the stalks, rubbed to powder, and passed 
through a wire sieve, then put into small dry bottles, and corked 
closely till wanted. When all the herbs are dried, a most excellent 
aromatic seasoning may be made as follows : — 

Arojiiatic Herbaceous Seasoning. — Take three ounces of basil, three 
ounces of marjoram, two ounces of winter savory, three ounces of 
thyme, one ounce of dried bay-leaves, two ounces of ground cloves, 
two ounces of white pepper, one ounce of powdered mace, one ounce 
of grated nutmeg, half an ounce of cayenne pepper, half an ounce of 
grated lemon-peel, and two cloves of garlic. Pound all the ingre- 
dients together in a mortar, sift them through a w^ire sieve, put into 
small dry bottles, and cork for use. This mixture \nW. be found most 
excellent for flavouring soups and sauces, a small pinch being suffi- 
cient for a quart of liquor. It is scarcely possible to improve upon 
this mixture. It is most important that genuine spices should be 
provided, and to secure this it is best to grind the ingredients at 
home. When this is not practicable they should be purchased of a 
first-class dealer. 

Tarragon Vinegar should be made in July. Pick the fresh leaves 
off the stalks, put them into a bottle, and cover them with vinegar. 
Let them remain four or six weeks, then strain the vinegar, put it 
into small bottles, and cork it securely. Two or three drops of this 
vinegar will prove a valuable addition to salad dressings and to 
mayonnaise sauce. 

Walnuts should be pickled and Walnut Ketchup should be made 
from the beginning to the middle of July. The earliest walnuts are 
the best ; as the season advances the fruit gets v/oody. Prick each 
walnut quite through with a large darning-needle. The hands should 
be covered with a cloth while this is done, or they wiU be deeply 



A YEARS COOKERY. 



277 



stained. Make enough brine (made of salt dissolved in boiling water) 
to cover them. The brine should be so strong that it will float an 
egg^ and should go cold before the "walnuts are put into it. Place a 
board on the fruit to keep it under ; let the walnuts He in the brine 
for nine days, and make fresh brine every third day. Drain the 
walnuts, and turn them about in the sun till they go l)lack. Put 
them into a jar and pour over them hot vinegar to cover them 
Spices should be boiled in the vinegar : two ounces of wliole pepper, 
one ounce of whole ginger, three or four cloves, and a blade of mace 
to each quart of vinegar. Tie the jars down securely, and store in a 
dry place. The walnuts may be used at the end of a month, though 
it would be best to leave them untouched for six months. At the 
end of that time the vinegar may be drained off and used as ketchup, 
and the jars filled up with fresh vinegar. They should in all cases 
be looked at now and then, and fresh vinegar to cover the walnuts 
entirely added when necessary. 



Breakfast. 

Pickled Herrings. 

Potted Grouse. 

Scones. 

Dry Toast. 

Brown and Wliite Bread 

and Butter. 
Mamialade. 
Milk Toast. 



August 1st. 

Luncheon. 

Scrag of Miitton, with Eice. 
Stirabout Ctieese. 



Dinner. 

Milk Soup. 

Beef- steak Pie. 

Potatoes. 

Cabbages. 

Vermicelli Pudding. 

Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— The scrag end of a Neck of Mvitton ; two pounds of Ritmp or 
Buttock Steak (January 1st) ; half an Ox Elidney ; a quarter of a pint of 
Mushrooms or a small tin of Champignons ; Saltpetre for the butter ; a pint 
of Indian Meal (JMarketing, January 30th) ; Potatoes ; Cabbages ; a penny- 
worth of Parsley . 

For To-morrow.— A moderate-sized Turbot (June 6th) ; half a pint of Picked 
Shrimps or Lobster Spawn ; a Fore-quarter of Lamb (April 11th) ; Beans ; 
Potatoes ; ingredients for a Salad ; lilint ; a pound and a half of Red 
Currants, and half a pound of Raspberries. Half a small Ham is supposed to 
be in the house. A Uttle best Kidney Suet for the pudding on August 3rd, and 
Watercress for the devilled eggs ; two or three pounds of Apples. Some- 
times apple? that have been blown from the trees, windfalls, are to be bought 
at a cheap rate at this time of the year. K this is the case, a few can be 
procured to make Parson's Pudding for August 3rd. If not, Treacle Pudding 
(March 28th) may be substituted for the Parson's Pudding. 



Breakfast. — Pickled Herrings (Angnst 20th) ; Potted Grouse 
(January 7th) ; Scones (May 23rd) ; Milk Toast (June I7th). 

Luncheon. — Scrag of Mutton, Stewed with Pace (February 21st). 
Stirabout Cheese. — Put into a saucepan a pint of milk, a pint of water, 
and a little salt. Boil, then with one hand sprinkle two ounces of 



278 



A YE Airs COOKERY. 



Indian meal into the liquid, and stir briskly with a knife held in the 
other hand till the mixture is smooth and thick. Simmer gently for 
an hour and stir frequently. Add an ounce of butter or dripping, a 
spoonful of mustard, and two ounces of grated cheese. Turn upon 
a hot dish and serve. This preparation, wlien cold, may be cut into 
slices and fried. ' Cheese that has become too dry to be used in the 
ordinary way maybe taken for this dish. 

Dinner.— Milk Soup (January 3rd) ; Beef -steak Pie (March 
2Cth) ; Potatoes (April 12th) ; Cabbage (June 4th). Vermicelli 
Pudding. — Flavour a ])int and a quarter of milk with lemon, cinna- 
mon, or vanilla, and drop into it whe^i boiling four ounces of vermi- 
celli ; crush it slightly with one hand whilst sprinkling it in, and stir 
it to keep it from gathering in lumps or burning. Let it boil gently, 
stirring it frequently, till it is tender and very thick. Pour it into a 
bowl, sweeten it to taste, stir a lum.p of butter into it, and when it is 
cool add two eggs, lightly beaten. Turn it into a buttered pie-dish, 
and bake it in a moderately-heated oven till it is brown on the top. 
A tea-spoonful of brandy and a little cream will improve the pudding, 
or, for economy's sake, one Qgg may be used instead of two, and the 
butter may be omitted. Cheese (June 8th). 

Thiags that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Boil the ham for breakfast to morrow (Note 4, May 27th). 

2. Put the suet into the flour-bin and cover it with flour till 
wanted. It will keep there better than anj'^vhere else. It should 
be remembered that if treacle pudding is to be made a quarter of a 
pound of suet will be suflicient ; for parson's pudding six ounces of 
suet will be needed. 

3. Jvlake Ptothe Grtitze for dinner to-morrow (December 10th). 



Sunday, August 2nd 



Breakfast. 


Dinner. 


Tea. 


Supper. 


Savoiuy Ei?2:s. 


Boiled Tui-bot. 


Brown and Wliitc 


Cold Lamb. 




Slirimp or Lobster 


Bread and Butter. 


Salad. 


Seoues. 


Sai;ce. 


Apple Jelly. 


Bed Currant Tart. 


Dry Toast. 


Qixarter of Lamb. 


Kice Cake. 


Clieese. 


Brown and WTiite 


Mint Sauce. 






Bread and Butter. 


Potatoes. 






Marmalade. 


Cauliflowers 






Corn-fl^iu- Milk. 


Eotlie Griitze. 
Clieese. 







Breakfast.— Savoury Eggs (January 1st) ; Ham boiled yes- 
terday •, Scones (May 23rd) ; Corn-flour Milk (June 19th). 

Dinner.— Boiled Turbot (June 7th) ; Shrimp Sauce (January 
30th) ; Lobster Sauce (June 7th) ; Boast Lamb (:\Iarch 4th and 
April 12th); Mint Sauce (March 25th); Potatoes (April 12th); 
Cauliflower (April 25th) ; Ilothe Grutze (December 10th) ; Cheese 
(June 8th). 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 279 

Tea. — For the Rice Calce, whicli was supposed to be made last 
Friday, proceed as follows : — Eub eiglit ounces of fresh butter into 
one pound of flour, add a pinch of salt, three heaped tea-spoonfuls of 
baking-powder (the recipe for making this is given below), a pound 
of ground rice, six ounces of sugar, a pound of picked and dried 
currants, and two ounces of candied peel chopped small. Mix the dry- 
ingredients thoroughly. Add two well-beaten eggs and milk to make 
a stiti paste. Put the mixture into two small tins lined with buttered 
paper, and bake in a well-heated oven. When a notched skewer 
pushed to the bottom of the cake comes out quite clean the cakes are 
done enough. They will take a little more than an hour to bake. When 
turned out of the tin, cakes should be at once turned on their sides or 
on a sieve till cool. If left in the tin they will be likely to be made 
heavy. To make a plain Sultana Cake, weigh ten ounces of flour, 
and rub into it four ounces of butter or clarified dripping, add two 
ounces of moist sugar, four ounces of picked sultanas, a tea-spoonful 
of grated lemon-rind, one ounce of candied peel finely chopped, and 
two tea-spoonfuls of baking-powder ; mix the dry ingredients 
thoroughly, stir in one egg beaten up with a little milk, just sufficient 
to moisten the cake, and bake as before. If cakes are made too moist 
in mixing they are sure to be heavy when baked. For a Sultana 
Cake that is a little richer, but still plain and wholesome, take eight 
ounces of flour, a pinch of salt, one ounce of candied peel, a tea- 
spoonfid of grated lemon-rind, a tea-spoonful of baking-powder, 
four ounces of butter or dripping, four ounces of sugar, and four 
ounces of sultanas. Mix the dry ingredients, then moisten with two 
eggs and about two table-spoonfuls of milk. When eggs are put into 
cakes of this description it is best to stir in the yolks with the milk 
or water that is used to moisten the liquid, to whisk the whites to a 
firm froth, and to stir this lightly into the cake just before it is put 
into the tin in which it is to be baked. 

To make Baldng-'poicdev. — Take an equal hulk of tartaric acid, 
carbonate of soda, and either ground rice or corn-flour. Mix the 
ingredients thoroughly, and rub the powder through a wire sieve. 
As a general rule a tea-spoonful of this powder is required for each 
pound of dry ingredients used. When baking-powder is used the 
pastry or cake that it is intended to lighten should be baked as soon 
•as possible after it is moistened. 

Supper.— Salad (March 13th) ; Eed Currant Tart (August 7th). 



Tilings that must not be Forgotten. 

1 Carefully preserve any cold fish that may be left ; it can be 
used for luncheon to-morrow. Cold potatoes also should be preserved ; 
they can be used both for the fish cakes and for the potato salad. 



A YEAKS COOKERY. 



Breakfast. 

Devilled Eggs. 

Boiled Ham. 

Scones. 

Dry Toast. 

BrowQ and "White Bread 

and Bxitter. 
Bread and lyiilk. 



August 3rd. 

Luncheon. 

Fish Cakes. 

Plain Eice Pudding. 



Dinner. 

Potato Piu-de. 

Cold Lamb. 

Mint tauce. 

Salad. 

Parson's Pudding. 

Cheese. 



Breakfast. — Devilled Eggs (February 27tli); Ham boiled day 
before yesterday ; Scones (May 23rd) ; Bread and Milk (January 
25tli). 

Luncheon". — Fish Cakes (January 13tli) ; Plain Eice Pudding 
(February 24th). 

Dinner. — Potato Puree (January 26tli) ; Lamb served yesterday ; 
Mint Sauce (March 25th); Potato Salad (April 12th). Parson's 
Piuhling. — Make some good suet crust (June 25th) ; roll this out as 
for Pioly-poly Pudding (August 18th), and spread over the surface 
a mixture made of apples, pared, cored, and chopped small, picked 
and washed currants, and a little moist sugar. Sprinkle finely- 
chopped suet on the top, roll the pudding up, fasten the ends 
securely, put it in a floured cloth, and boil it like roly poly pudding, 
serving with sweet sauce (July 19tli). This pudding is generally liked 
by children. Cheese (June 8tli). 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Make a semolina mould for luncheon to-morrow (July 23rd). 

2. Put a cupful of hominy to soak all night in cold water (February 
lOth). ____^,__^ 

August 4th. 



Breakfast. 


Luncheon. 


Dinner. 


Ham on Toast. 


stewed Pigeons. 


Fillets of Sole Sautt^.?. 


Boiled Egs?s. 


Semoliua Mould. 


Ribs of Beef, Rolled. 


Buttered Toast. 




Browned Potatoes. 


Dry Toast. 




Cabbage. 


Brown and White Bread 




Macaroni Pudding. 


and Butter. 




Cheese. 


Marmalade. 






Boiled Hominy. 







Marketing. 

For the Bay.— Tlirce plump young Pigeons (January 24th) ; three-quarters of a 
pound of Bacon in rashers, half for to-day and half for to-morrow; a pair of 
thick Soles, filleted (.Ta,nuary 3rd) ; one rib of Beef to weigh about six pounds ; 
the butcher should be asked to bone and roll the meat. Six ounces of pipe 
Macaroni (January 1st) ; Potatoes ; Cabbage ; a peck of Peas. 

For To-morrow.— About four plump fresh Sheep's Kidneys ; Watercress ; a 
pint of fresh Fruit of any kind to make juice for the cold sago. 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 281 



Breakfast. — Ham on Toast (March 28th) ; Boiled Eggs (January 
5th) ; Boiled Hominy (February 11th). 

Luncheon". — Steived Pigeons. — When peas are plentiful and pigeons 
are cheap, a verj^ excellent dish may be made by stewing them together 
as follows : — Pluck three plump young pigeons, and truss 'them with 
their legs inside. Cut half the bacon bought this morning into very 
small pieces, throw these into a stewpan with a piece of butter the 
size of a walnut, and shake them over the fire for a minute. Put the 
pigeons upon them breast downwards, and turn these about till they 
are equally and lightly browned all over. Take them up, and mis a 
table-spoonful of Hour smoothly wdth the bacon and butter, and beat 
the paste over the fire with the back of a wooden spoon till it is well 
cooked. Add gradually a pint of stock or water, and throw in a 
bunch of parsley. Let the sauce boil, add the pigeons, a quart of 
freshly-shelled green peas, a small lump of su.gar, and a little pepper ; 
simmer all gently together for three-quarters of an hour. Place the 
pigeons on a dish, put the sauce and peas round them, and serve. 

Dinner. — Fillets of Sole Saut6s (January 4th) -, Ptibs of Beef, Polled 
and Roasted (March 4th or March 8th) ; Browned Potatoes (October 
18th) ; Cabbage (June 4th) ; Macaroni Pudding (March 27th) ; Cheese 
(June 8th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Do not forget to stew the beef bones. Excellent stock may be 
made from them. 

2. Preserve any boiled hominy that may be left ; it can be fried 
for breakfast to-morrow. 

3. Prepare the Custard Blancmange for dinner to-morrow. Soak 
an ounce of gelatine in a cupful of cold Avater for an hour. Make a 
pint of custard, either plain or rich (August 10th). Stir the soaked 
gelatine in this whilst it is hot tiU it is dissolved. Oil some 
small moulds of various sizes, fill them with the custard, and put 
them in a cool place till wanted. When they are to be served, turn 
the shapes upon a glass dish, pour around them a little brightly- 
coloured fruit syrup or lemon syrup (March 19th), place a ring of 
angelica or a preserved cherry upon each mould, and serve. If 
preferred, a compote of fresh fruit, such as white currants, red 
currants, cherries, or strawberries, can be used instead of the syrup 
(August 5th). When very small moulds are used the blancmange can, 
for the sake of convenience, be made the day that they are to be 
served ; but of course it is safer, especially in hot weather, to let them 
stand some hours to stiffen. 

4. ]\[ake for luncheon to-morrow a mould of cold sago with fruit 
juice (October 8th). 



282 



A YEAKS COOKERY. 



August 5th. 



Breakfast. 


Luncheon. 


Dinner. 


Fried Kidneys and Bacon. 


Scotcli Collops. 


Fried Plaice. 


Buttered Toast. 


Sago Mould. 


Dutch Sauce. 


Dry Toast. 




Beef, with Acid Sauce. 


Brown and WJiite Bread 




Potatoes. 


and Butter. 




Cauliflowers. 


Watercress. 




Custard Blancmansre. 


Fried Hominy. 




Compote of Fresh Fruit. 
Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— One pound and a hjilf of Buttock Steak (January 1st) ; a thick 
Plaice (April 21st) ; Potatoes ; Cauliflowers ; a pint of fresh Fruit for the 
compote ; a pennyworth of Parsley ; Saltpetre for the butter, if wanted 
(Augnst 27th). 

For To-morrow.— Half a pint of freshly-boiled picked Shrimps ; a tin of CoUared 
Tongue (January 2nd). 



Breakfast. — Fried Kidneys and Bacon (January 2nd); Fried 
Hominy (February 12tli). 

Luncheon.— Scotch Collops (January 9tli) ; Sago Mould (October 
8tli). 

DiNNEE.— Fried Plaice (April 21st) ; Dutcli Sauce (May 14tli) ; Beef, 
with Acid Sauce (December 4th); Potatoes (May 12tli) ; Cauliflowers 
(April 25th).^ Comjwte of Fresh Fruit. — A compote consists simply 
of fresh fruit boiled in syrup until it is cooked sufficiently, but has 
not lost either its original shape or colour. Compotes are whole- 
sonie and elegant preparations, and are much superior to stewed fruit 
as it is usually served. To prepare a compote it is necessary to have 
a clear syrup, made by boiling together loaf sugar and water. The 
fruit, sound, ripe, and fresh, should be thrown into this syrup when it 
is boiling, and simmered gently for a while, the time varying with the 
nature of the fruit. The preparation should always be removed from 
the fire as soon as the fruit is done enough, and before it has 
time to fall. The fruit itself should then be lifted into a glass dish, 
and the syrup boiled a minute or tvro longer ; but it should always be 
allowed to cool before it is poured into the dish. The quantity of 
sugar used must of course depend upon the acidity of the fruit, and a 
sufficiency must be used, or the syrup will not look bright and clear. 
Apples, hard pears, strawberries, raspberries, plums of all kinds, 
cherries, red, white, and black currants, apricots, nectarines, peaches, 
and blackberries are all excellent made into compotes. Properly 
nmde compotes will keep for tvvo or three days, and if there is any 
sign that they are becoming spoilt they may be restored by being 
boiled for a minute or two. Superior compotes are excellent as 
dessert dishes, and fruit preserved in tliis way may be used to garnish 
sweet dishes of various kinds. Cheese (June 8th). 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



283 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Put tlie shrimps in a cool place, and cover them with muslin. 

2. Preserve any broken remnants of beef there may be. Kissolea 



can be made of them to-morrow. 



August 6th, 



Breakfast. 

Battered Shrimijs. 

Collared Tongue. 

Hot Buttered Toast. 

Dry Toast. 

Browu and \Vliite Bread 

and Butter. 
Milk Porridu^e. i 



Luncheon, 

Baked MackereL 
Kissoles. 



Dinner. 

Tomato Puree. 

Ctuiied CMckeu. 

Rice. 

New Potatoes. 

Baked Omelette, 

Clieese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— A couple of fresli moderate-sized IMackerel ; tv/o pounds of ripe 
Tomatoes ; one Capon or a pair of Chickens (June 29th). Those who keep 
fowls, and who find it necessary to Idll an old bird from time to time, may 
render it as tender when cooked as a young chicken by adopting the follow- 
ing method. Pluck the bird wliilst still warm, wrap it in plenty of vine- 
leaves, then in an old napkin, and buiy it for about twenty-four hours, not in 
damp ground but in good earth. Take it up, and stew it gently in a small 
quantity of water. New Potatoes. 

For To-morrow.— A quarter of a pound of German Sa;isage ; Sea Biscuits, if 
not in the house ; one Cow-heel, dressed, from the tripe shop ; JMuitins 
(January 29th). 

BREAKFAST.'^Buttered Shrimps (July 23rd) ; Collared Tongue 
bought yesterday ; Milk Porridge (June 13th). 

LuKCHEON. — Baked Mackerel (April 15th) ; Piissoles made of 
remnants of Beef (January 6th). 

Dinner. — Tomato Pur6e (^larch 11th) ; Curried Chiclen. — 
Follow the directions given for curr;ying rabbit (July 16th). Rice, 
Boiled, for Curry (July 21st) ; New Potatoes (April 12th). Baked 
Omelette. — Break two eggs or more in a bovvl, and whisk them lightly; 
add sugar and flavouring to taste. Take a small omelette-pan, or 
wanting this, if two eggs are used, a round cake tin that is kept 
exclusively for this purpose, and that measures about four inches 
across, may be used. Put a slice of butter in this and let it get boil- 
ing hot. Whisk the eggs till the last moment, pour them into the 
pan, and bake in a very brisk oven. The omelette will be done 
enough in five or six minutes. An omelette-pan should never be 
v^'ashed, but wiped out with a dry cloth. If it is washed, the next 
omelette that is baked or fried in it will almost certainly be a failure. 
Cheese (June 8th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. If the legs of the chicken can be preserved, they may be devilled 
for breakfast to-morrow 



284 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



August 7th, 



Breakfast. 


Luncheon. 


Dinner. 


Devilled Drumsticks. 


Beef k la Mode. 


Fried Hake. 


German Saiisage. 


Treacle Tart. 


Mutton Chops, with Pi. 


Muffins. 




quante Sauce. 


Dry Toast. 




Potatoes. 


Brown and WMte Bread 




Prencli Beans. 


and Butter. 




Brown Bread and Buttef 


Biscuits and Milk. 




Pudding. 






Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— Two pounds of lean Beef ; "buttock steak, the clod or sticking or an 
ox-cheek may be used. About three pounds of Hake, cut into slices about halt 
an inch thick. _ Hake is a most excellent fish, that is not valued as it ought to 
be, because it is cheap. It is a large vrest country fish, very often sold under 
the name of Devonshire or White Salmon, and it may be cooked in any of the 
ways recommended for salmon or for cod. The most economical way of 
bujdng it for a family is to purchase a whole fish, weighing about twelve 
pounds, then salt the tail end, which can be boiled the next day, and cut the 
thick part into steaks. Sometimes it can be obtained fresh and crimped like 
cod, and then it is really very superior. In choosing it, the same rules hold 
good with this fish as with others (January 3rd). About three pounds of 
the best end of a Neck of Mutton ; Potatoes ; French Beans ; a penny- 
worth of German Yeast. 

For To-morrow.— A tin of Sardines ; Watercress. 

Breakfast. — Devilled Dmmsticks (January 14tli) ; German 
Sausage (June 6tli) ; Muffins (January 30tli) ; Biscuits and Milk 
(June 14tli). 

Luncheon.— Beef h. la Mode (February 14tli) ; Treacle Tart {see 
below). 

Dinner. — Fried Hale. — Follow the directions given for Fried 
Cod (January 1st). Mutton Chops, with Piquante Sauce (April 30th) ; 
Potatoes (May 12th); French Beans (August IGth); Brown Bread 
Pudding (July 20th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Take care of one or two slices of German sausage for the 
Hambro' salad on Sunday evening. 

2. Make a Ground Rice Mould for luncheon to-morrow. Take four 
ounces of ground rice, one quart of milk, three ounces of white sugar, 
and_ any flavouring that may be preferred, lemon-rind, almond, or 
vanilla essence. Put a pint and a half of the milk into a saucepan 
with the sugar and flavourings, and with the half -pint that remains 
mix the rice to a smooth paste. Stir the rice into the milk when the 
latter boils, and let it boil quickly, stirring it all the time till it leaves 
the saucepan with the spoon. Pour it into a quart mould of china or 
tin that has been soaking in cold water for a few minutes, and put it 
in a cool place till wanted. Serve on a glass dish, with treacle, jam, 
or a compote of fresh fruit round it (August 5th). If preferred, the 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



shape can be made of whole rice instead of ground rice ; then the 
rice would be put into the milk when cold, and would be simmered 
gently till soft. It would need to be well beaten before being turned 
into the mould. 

3. Pastry (April 17th) and rolls are to be made to-day : Green- 
gage Pies, Vienna Bread (August 26th), and Sultana Cake (August 
2nd). Fruit Pies are made in the same way, whatever kind of fruit is 
used. The fruit, properly prepared, is put into a pie-dish and heaped 
up in the middle, and moist sugar, more or less according to the 
acidity of the fruit, is sprinkled over it. Apples or other fruits that 
are not fully ripe, and so are not likely to fall well, are often partially 
baked at this stage. The pastry is then rolled out to the shape of the 
pie-dish, but larger, and about a quarter of an inch thick. A strip of 
paste rather larger than the edge of the dish should be cut from the 
rolled I3astry, the edge of the dish should be moistened with water, 
the strip of paste laid on it being pressed down lightly with the 
fingers. The strip of pastry can now be moistened again, the cover 
laid on the pie, and the pastry pressed down with the fingers at the 
inner part of the edge. The edges are then to be cut evenly all round, 
and ornamented according to taste, and a slit can be made in the 
pastry at the side of the pie, with the blade of a small knife, to allow 
the steam to escape. The pie is now ready for the oven, which should 
be well heated, and it will be done enough when the pastry is set and 
of a light brown colour. Superior pies look better when glazed, and 
for this all that is necessary is to brush the surface of the pie quickly 
over with cold water, and to sprinkle powdered white sugar over it 
before putting it in the oven. When fruit is likely to be very juicy, 
a small cup or jar should be placed bottom uppermost in the middle 
of the pie to keep the juice from boiling over. Pies are made with 
the pastry over the fruit, Taints with the pastry under the fruit. 
Tarts are of all sizes and shapes, and are usually baked in tins. In 
most cases it is best to bake the pastry before filling it, and to prick a 
few holes in the bottom of the tart, or lay a crust of bread on it, to 
keep the pastry down and in shape. When, however, a cover is to be 
placed over it, as, for instance, in cranberry tart, the fruit must be put 
in its place at first, though even then it is sometimes weU to stew it a 
little, and let it cool before laying it on the pastry. Treacle Tart is 
made_ by^ lining a tin with pastry, spreading treacle over it, and 
covering it with two or three layers of pastry rolled out exceedingly 
thin, each layer having treacle spread over it. A covering of pastry 
is placed on the top, and the tart is ready for the oven. 

For both pies and tarts a light crust is always to be preferred. 
Puff paste (April 24th) is the best for superior pies and tarts, though 
good short crust (June 19th) is also excellent for the purpose. When 
puff-paste is regarded as being either too troublesome to make or too 
rich for digestion, what may be called Flaky Crust will be a very 
good substitute for it. To make this, put haK a pound of flour 
into a bowl, with a pinch of salt, half a tea-spoonful of sifted 



286 



A YEARS COOKERY. 



sugar, and half a tea-spoonful of baking-powder (August 2nd) ; mix 
all thoroughly, and make into a stif paste by stirring in the white of one 
egg whisked to a stiff froth and a little water. Weigh a quarter of a 
pound of butter or clarified dripping, and divide this into two 
portions. Roll out the pastry to the thickness of a ciuarter of an 
inch, spread one portion of the butter evenly over it, and dredge flour 
upon this. Fold the paste in three, turn it round with the edges to 
the front, and roll it again. Spread the remainder of the butter pver 
it, dredge flour on it again, and roll it to the shape that is required. 
Bake in a brisk oven. Sometimes this pastry is made by rubbing the 
butter into the flour, as for short crust, rolling the paste out three or 
four times, and brushing it over with white of egg each time it is 
rolled. 

4. Partially prepare the rice milk (Note 3, June 17tli). 



August 8th, 



Breakfast. 

Collared Tongue. 

Buttered Eggs. 

Vienna Bread. 

Dry Toast. 

Brown and White Bread 

and Butter. 
Eice Milk. 



Lunciieon. 

Beef a la Mode. 
Groiuid Eice Mould. 



Dinner. 

Soles, Filleted and Rolled, 
with Brown Butter Sauce. 
Loin of Lamb, Braised. 
New Potatoes. 
Peas. 

Cocoa-nut Pudding. 
Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— A pair of thick Soles (January 3rd) ; a Loin of Lamb ; Potatoes ; 

Green Peas, if they are to be had ; Parsley ; a fresh Cocoa-nut, or a small 

tin of Desiccated Cocoa-nut ; half a pint of Mushrooms. 
For To-morro-w.— Half a dozen small fresh Mackerel (April ith) ; a tin of 

Bovills Potted Pheasant ; the tail end, or, if preferred, a cut from the middle, 

of a moderate-sized Salmon ; Shrimps for sauce ; a small Cucumber for 

garnish ; a fillet of Veal (March 14th) : half a pound of Bacon in rashers ; 

Ingredients for forcemeat (June 27th); Potatoes; Broccoli; Apples, Lettuce, 

Endive, &c., for Hambro' Salad (see below). 



Breakfast. — Collared Tongue (Note, January 3rd) ; Buttered 
Eggs (January 16th) ; Vienna Bread (August 26th); Kice Milk (June 
18th). 

Luncheon. — Beef k la Mode and Rice Mould prepared yesterday. 

Dinner. — Soles, Filleted, Rolled, and Baked (March 1st) ; Brown 
Butter Sauce (February 12th) ; Loin of Lamb, Braised (May 22nd) ; 
New Potatoes (April 12th) ; Green Peas (July 12th). Cocoa-nut 
Pudding. — Take one cupful of grated cocoa-nut or of desiccated cocoa- 
nut, pour upon it a pint of boiling milk, let it soak for awhile ; put 
it in a saucepan, bring it again to the boil, and add rather less than a 
pint of cold milk and a table-spoonful of corn-flour mixed to a smootli 
paste Avith a quarter of a gill of milk. Stir the mixture and let it 
l)oil again. Pour it out, and when cool add three well-beaten eggs 



A TEAR'S COOKERY. 



287 



and sugar to taste. Pour into a buttered dish, and bake m a 
moderate oven for about three-quarters of an hour. If fresh cocoa- 
nut is used the milk of the nut may be added to the pudding when 
it is cooL Cheese (June 8th), 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Pickle the mackerel for breakfast to-morrow (August 28th). 

2. Hamhro' Salad will be required for supper to-morrow evening. 
It may be partially prepared to-day, that is, the ingredients may be 
collected, and the anchovies may be filleted and laid between two 
dishes. To prepare the salad, cleanse the lettuce and endive, dry it 
thoroughly, and shred it finely. Put it in a salad bowl, and mix with 
it half a dozen fiUeted anchovies, a small slice of the boiled salmon 
torn into flakes, two or three slices of German sausage finely minced, 
a few slices of cold boiled potatoes, and a sour apple chopped smaU. 
Toss the whole lightly and thoroughly together at the moment of 
serving with the ordinary salad dressing, oil, vinegar, pepper, and 
salt (March 13th), sprinkle a spoonful of minced German sausage on 
the top, garnish with hard-boiled eggs, and serve. Strictly speaking, 
kippered salmon and grated Hambro' beef ought to enter into the 
composition of this salad, but when they are not at hand ingredients 
of a hke character may take their place. 



Sunday, August 9th. 



Breakfast. 


Dinner. 


Tea. 


Supper. 


Potted Pheasant. 


Boiled Salmon. 


Brown and White 


Hamhro' Salad. 


Pickled Mackerel. 


Fillet of Veal, 


Bread and Butter. 


Greengage Pie. 


Vieuua Bread. 


Stuffed and 


Vienna Bread. 


Clieese. 


Dry Toast. 


Baked. 


Strawberry Jam. 


Pulled Bread. 


Brown and. White 


Bacon EoUs. 


Sultana Cake. 




Bread and Butter. 


Potatoes. 






Llilk Toast. 


Cauliflower. 
Queen's Pudding, 
with Sugar Icing. 
Cheese. 







Breakfast. — Potted Pheasant {see Potted Grouse, January 7th) ; 
Pickled Mackerel (August 28th) ; Vienna Bread (August 26th) ; Milk 
Toast (June 17th). 

Dinner. — Boiled Salmon (July 5th) ; Shrimp Sauce (January 
30th), 'Caper Sauce (^larch 19th), or better still, Dutch Sauce 
(j\Iay 14th) or B^arnaise (March 23rd), are greatly to be preferred. 
Fillet of Veal, Stuffed and Baked (June 28th); Bacon Eolls 
(July 19th); Potatoes (May 12th); Cauliflower (April 25th). 
Queen's Pudding, ^ with Sugar Icing. — Bub some stale bread 
through a -ware sieve until half a pint of bread-crumbs have been 
obtained Put these into a bowl, pour upon them a pint of boiling.' 



288 



A YEARS COOKERY. 



milk, add tlie grated rind of a lemon, three table-spoonfuls of white 
sugar, an ounce of butter, and the beaten yolks of two eggs (the 
whites of the eggs should be put aside; they will be wanted presently) 
Butter a small pudding-dish, or, if preferred, line it with pastry, pou? 
in the mixture, and bake in a well-heated oven till it is set and nicely 
browned. Put the two whites of eggs upon a plate, and m hisk them 
until the froth can be cut in two with a knife. After they are 
whisked mix about a spoonful of_ sifted arrowroot with them to keep 
the froth firm, add as much white sugar as will sweeten the icing, 
and place it in broken lumps on the top of the pudding. Put it in 
the oven till lightly browned on the top, and it is ready to serve. 
Cheese (.June 8th). 

Tea. — Vienna Bread (August 26th) ; Sultana Cake (August 2nd). 

Supper. — Hambro' Salad (August 8th) ; Pie (August 7 th) ; Pulled 
Bread (August 27th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. If any salmon is left, pickle it as soon as possible after it leaves 
the table (May 30th). 

2. Turn over the mackerel in the vinegar. 

3. Put a cupful of white haricot beans to soak all night in cold 
water. 



Breakfast. 

PicMecl Salmon. 

Potted Pheasant. 

Hot Buttered Toast. 

Dry Toast. 

Brown and Wliite Bread 

and Biitter. 
Marmalade. 
Oatmeal Porridgo. 



August lOth. 

Luncheon. 

Chops, Stewea in their own 

Gravy 
Lemon Sponge. 



Dinner. 

Haricot Purde. 
Minced Veal. 
Bacon Rolls. 
Potatoes. 
Cabbage. 

Chocolate Pudding. 
Custard. 
Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Bay.— Two pounds and a half, or more, of Mutton Chops from the loin ; 
three-quarters of a pound of Bacon (half of this is for dinner and half for 
breakfast to-morrow) ; Potatoes : Cabbage ; half a pound of French Chocolate. 

For To-morrow.— Three or four French or Globe Artichokes (these may have 
to be ordered) ; a Lamb's Fry (Marketing, May loth) ; Tomatoes. 

Breakfast. — Pickled Salmon (May 30th); Potted Grouse (January 
7th) ; Oatmeal Porridge (January 25th), 

Luncheon. — Chops, Stewed in their own Gravy (May 29th). 
Lemon Sponge, — Custard is to be made later in the day. For this 
the yolks of the eggs only will be needed, and therefore the whites 
may be utilised by making them into Lemon Sponge. This dish is a 
pretty and inexpensive one for a supper or cold collation.^ Soak an 
ounce of isinglass or gelatine, and the rind of two lemons thinly pared, 



A YEARS COOKERY. 289 

in a pint of cold water for an hour. Take out the rind, dissolve the gela- 
tine over the fire, and add three-quarters of a pound of loaf sugar, and 
the juice of three lemons. Let all boil together for three or four 
minutes, pour out the mixture, and let it remain till it is cold and 
beginning to set. ^^^lisk the whites of the two eggs, the yolks of 
which are to be used for the custard pudding, add them to the 
mixture, and whisk again for about half an hour till the preparation 
becomes of the consistence of sponge. Pile it lightly in a glass dish, 
leaving it rocky in appearance, sprinkle hundreds and thousands on 
the top, and serve. 

Dinner. — Haricot Pur^e (March 9th); Minced Veal (May 
11th); Bacon Eolls (July 19th)- Potatoes (April 12th); Cabbage 
(June 4th) ; Chocolate Pudding (July 24th). 

CiLstard that is to be served in glasses as an accompaniment to 
fruit or sweet dishes may be made with cream or milk and with 
eggs, varying in number from one to eight or nine. The richer the 
custard the more likely it is to curdle in making. A moderately good 
custard may be made as follows : — Boil a pint of milk, sweeten it to 
taste, but if any essence is to be used for flavouring do not put this 
in until the custard is made. Almond, lemon, vanilla, orange, or 
brandy are the flavourings usually chosen. A few drops of vanilla 
essence and a spoonful of brandy are very good together. If lemon 
or orange flavour be chosen, the very thin rind of the fruit should Ije 
boiled in the milk till it tastes pleasantly. While the milk is boiling 
beat three eggs lightly, pour the boiling milk upon them, put them 
into an enamelled saucepan, and stir the custard over a slow fire till 
it begins to thicken. Draw it quite back so that it cannot even 
simmer, and let it remain, stirring it occasionally, for about a quarter 
of an hour. By letting it remain at a gentle heat in this way and 
stirring it well the custard will be considerably enriched. Pour it 
out, stir it now and then to keep it from skinning on the surface, 
and when cold it is ready. If almond flavour has been used, a few 
almonds, blanched and finely shred, may be sprinkled over it in the 
glasses, or nutmeg may be grated on the surface. A plain custard 
may be made with a pint of milk, one Q,gg^ and a tea-spoonful of flour 
or corn-flour. The thickening ingredients should be mixed to a 
smooth paste with cold milk, then added to the boiling milk, and 
after being boiled up and cooling a minute, the two should be mixed 
with a beaten 'dgg and the mixture boiled. (Cheese June 8th). 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Turn the mackerel in the vinegar. 

2. If any cabbage is left it should be preserved, as Colcaunon can 
l)e made of it for dinner to-morrow. 



290 



A YEARS COOKERY. 



Breakfast. 

Potted Pheasant. 

Fried Bacou and Tomatoes. 

Buttered Toast. 

Dry Toast. 

Brown and Wliite Bread 

and Butter. 
Corn-floiu- Milk. 



August Nth. 



Luncheon. 

Lamb's Fry. 
Boiled Artichokes. 
Dutch Sauce. 



Dinner. 

Croflte au Pot. 

Eoast Shoulder of Mutton 

Mint Sauce, 

Colcannon. 

Comp6te of Plums. 

Custard. 

Cheese. 



Marketing- 

For the Day.— A Shoulder of Mutton, not too fat ; a pint of Greengages ; Cab- 
bage, if noue Avere left yesterday ; Mint ; Potatoes. 

For To-morrow.— A small tin of Corned Beef; Anchovies, if none ars in the 
house ; a pennyworth of Small Salad. 



Grouse, January 
Corn-flour Milk 



BREAKFAST. — Potted Plicasant {see Potted 
7tli) ; Fried Bacon and Tomatoes (July 12tli) 
(June 19tli). 

Luncheon. — Lamb's Fry (May 16tb). Boiled Articholces. — Soak 
tlie artichokes for awhile in strong salt and water, cut the stalks even, 
trim away the lower leaves, and cut a little piece off the ends of the 
others. Put the artichokes, stalk uppermost, into quickly-boiling 
salted water. Leave the lid off the saucepan, and boil the artichokes 
until the leaves can be drawn out easily. They Avill take from half 
an hour to an hour, according to their size and age. Send them 
to table on a hot dish, with Dutch sauce (May 14th) as an accom- 
paniment. The thick, juicy part of the leaves and the bottom or part 
that lies under the choke are the only portions of this vegetable 
that are eaten, and tliey are delicious. JSTo more agreeable dish 
for supper or luncheon need be desired than boiled artichokes and 
Dutch sauce. 

Dinner. — Croilte au Pot (May 25t]i) ; lloast Shoulder of Mutton 
(March 4th and December IGth) ; ]\iint Sauce (March 25th). Col- 
caniwii. — Take equal quantities of cold boiled cabbage or savoy and 
cold boiled potatoes. Crush the potatoes and chop the cabbage finely, 
then put both into a ste^vl)an, with a slice of butter or dripping and 
a little pepper and salt. Stir all briskly together over the fire till the 
vegetables are well mixed. Grease a basin with dripping, press the 
mixture into it, and put it in the oven till the vegetables are ver> 
hot throughout ; turn upon a dish, and serve. Compote of Plums 
(August 5th) ; Custard (August 10th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 



Things that must not be Forgotten, 

1. Prepare the anchovies as far as possible for breakfast to-inorrow 
(Note 4, January 17th). 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



291 



2. Shalots come into the market some time in August. Purchase 
a few, say a pound, put them in an onion bag, and hang them m a 
cool dry place. They will keep till spring, and are constantly 
wanted in cookery. 



August 12th 



Breakfast. 


Luncheon. 


Dinner. 


Anchovies and Hard-boiled 


Toad in the Hole. 


Hake Cutlets, Fi-ied. 


Eggs. 


Caidiflower au Gratia. 


Cold Shoulder of Mutton, 


Corned Beef. 




Potatoes. 


Buttered Toast. 




Salad. 


Dry Toast. 




Lemon Pudding. 


Brown and Wliite Bread 




Cheese. 


and Butter. 






Bread and Milk. 







Marketing. 

For the Day.— A pound and a half of Mutton for the Toad in the Hole ; a large 
Cauliflower ; three pounds taken from the middle of a good-sized Hake : ask 
the fishmonger to cut this into slices half an inch thick (August 7th) ; Potatoes; 
a Cos Lettuce; a half-penny worth of Small Salad; a half -penny worth of 
Beetroot and young Onions ; six ounces of good Beef Suet ; Parsley. 

Foi" To-morrow.— Bloaters, one for each person ; a quarter of a pomid of Pipe 
Macaroni ; order for to-morrow an Ox Ivitiney ; Muffins (January 29th). 



Breakfast. — Anchovies and Hard-boiled Eggs (January 18th); 
Corned Beef bought yesterday • Bread and Milk (January 25th). 

Luncheon. — Toad in the Hole (January 15th); Cauliflower au 
Gratin (April 25th). 

DiNNEii. — Fried Hake {see Fried Cod, January 1st) ; Mutton served 
yesterday {see Cold Mutton, July 23rd); Salad (March 13th); Potatoes 
(April 12th). Lemon Pu'Iding. — Shred a quarter of a pound of beef 
suet very finely. Mix with it half a pound of bread-crumbs, quarter 
of a pound of sugar, thethin rind of two large lemons chopped small, 
and a pinch of salt. Mix thoroughly ; moisten with two well-beaten 
eggs and the strained juice of two lemons. Turn the mixture into a 
buttered mould that it will fill, tie a floured cloth over the top, plunge 
it into boiling water, and keep it boiling for two h'a *>. Let it stand 
a minute, turn it out, and serve Avith sweet sauce (July 19th), or with 
a little sherry, if permitted. If preferred, one Qgg and a tea-spoonful 
of baking-powder may be used instead of two eggs ; then a little 
water will be required to moisten the pudding. Cheese (June 8th). 



Tilings that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Remember to keep the bloaters in the larder apart from all 
other food. 



292 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



2. Preserve any remains of liake that there may be ; fish cakes 
can be made of them for dinner to-morrow. 

3. Put a large cupful of hominy to soak all night in cold water 
(February 10th). 



Breakfast. 

Bloaters ou Toast. 

Coi-ued Beef. 

Miifiins. 

Dry Toast. 

Brown and Wliite Bread 

and Butter. 
Boiled Hominy. 



August 13th, 



Luncheon. 

stewed Ox Kidney. 
Sweet Macaroni. 



Dinner. 

Fish Cakes. 

Fowl, Stewed witli Toma- 
toes. 
Potatoes. 
Freucli Beans. 
Newcastle Pudding. 
Clieese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— One pound of Bacon in rashers (January 3rd), half for dinner 
to-day and half for breakfast to-morrow. One larj^e Fowl or a couple of 
Chickens, accordina: to the requirements of the family. For one fowl 
half a pound of Tomatoes and three or four Mushrooms, or a tin of 
Champignons. Pofcitoes ; French Beans ; Saltpetre for the butter, if there is 
none in the house (August 27th). 

For To-morrow.— Order to be sent in the morning a couple of Leverets and 
three plump young Pigeons (January 2ith). 



Beeakfast. — Bloaters on Toast (Marcli 24th); Corned Beef served 
yesterday; Muffins (January 30th); Boiled Hominy (February lltli). 

Luncheon. — Stewed Ox Kidney (April 2nd). ISweet Macaroni. — 
Boil a quarter of a pound of macaroni in water till tender, but not at 
all broken. Drain it, put with it half a pint of cream or milk, three 
ounces of sugar, and any flavouring that may be chosen. Let it 
simmer again until it is quite thick, and stir it occasionally to keep 
it from burning, but be careful not to break the macaroni. Turn it 
upon a dish and serve. A compute of fresh fruit or a little preserved 
fruit is a very ])leasant accompaniment to sweet macaroni. 

Dinner. — Fish Cakes (January 13th) ; Fowl, Stewed with Toma- 
toes (September 12th) ; Potatoes (April 12th) ; French Beans (August 
IGtli) ; Newcastle Pudding (June 12th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 



Things that must not bo Forgotten. 
1. Preserve any hominy that may be left; it can be fried for 



breakfast to-morrow 
2. If the legs of 1 
to-morrow (Janu»*iy 14th). 



2. If the legs of the fowls were not used, devil thorn for breakfast 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



293 



Breakfast. 

Devilled Drumsticks. 

Toasted Bacon. 

Hot Biittered Toast. 

Dry Toast. 

Brown and Wliite Bread 

and Butter. 
Fried Hominy. 



August 14th. 



Luncheon. 

stewed Pigeons. 
Stuffed Tomatoes. 



Dinner. 

Fried Wliiting. 
Civet of Leverets. 
Potatoes. 
Cabbage. 

Semolina Pudding. 
Cheese. 



Marketing, 

For the Day.— A pair of Leverets (June 13th) and three Pigeons ordered yester- 
day ; half a dozen ripe Tomatoes; fresh Whiting (January 17th); Potatoes; 
Cabbage; one ounce of fresh German Yeast; half a pound of Bacon; Fruit 
for Pies. 

For To-morrow.— A tin of Sardines ; a quarter of a pound of German Sausage ; 
Watercress. 



Breakfast.— Devilled Drumsticks (January 14tli); Toasted 
Bacon (January 19th) ; Fried Hominy (February 12th). 

Luncheon.— Stewed Pigeons (August 4th); Stuffed Tomatoes 
(July 2.3rd). 

Dinner.— Fried Whiting (January 17th) ; Civet of Leverets (June 
14th) ; Potatoes (May Gth) ; Cal:tl):ige (June 4th) ; Semolina Pudding 
(March 12th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Preserve all that is left of the leverets ; very good soup may 
be made of it for to-morrow. 

2. Pastry is to be made to-day (April 17th) ; Plum Pies (August 
7th) and open Jam Tart (August 7tli) ; also Scones (August 26th), 
and plain Soda Cahe. — Rul) six ounces of butter or clarified dripi»ing 
into one pound of flour ; add a pinch of salt, a tea-spoonful of mixed 
spice, a table-spoonful of caraway seeds or a table-spoonful of picked 
and dried currants, and six ounces of moist sugar. Mix thoroughly ; 
add a tea-spoonful of vinegar, and half a pint of milk in which a tea- 
spoonful of carbonate of soda has been dissolved. Turn the mixture 
into a tin lined with greased paper, and bake in a moderate oven. A 
richer cake may be made by substituting eggs for a little of the milk. 
Seed Galce. — Follow the directions given for Sultana Cake (August 
2nd), but substitute a table-spoonful of caraway seeds for the 
raisins. Good Soda Bnns may be made as follows : — Piub six ounces 
of butter or clarified dripping into a pound of flour ; add six ounces 
of sugar and tw^o ounces of candied peel chopped small. Dissolve a 
quarter of a tea-spoonful of carbonate of soda in about a table-spoon- 
ful of warm milk ; stir this into the flour, and drop in, one at a time, 
the yolks of four and the whisked whites of two eggs. Grease a 



294 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



baking-tin, put the batter on it in lumps, and bake in a quick oven. 
Light Buns, quickly made. — Mix half a tea-spoonful of tartaric acid, 
half a tea-spoonful of carbonate of soda, and a pinch of salt with a 
pound of flour ; rub in two ounces of butter, and add four ounces of 
currants, two ounces of sugar, and half a tea-spoonful of caraway 
seeds. Mix one egg with half a pint of milk, make a hole in the flour, 
pour in the milk, and beat together vdth a knife ; drop in lumps on a 
greased tin, and bake in a quick oven. N.B. — The oven for cakes 
should l:»e brisk at the commencement, but it should not be increased 
afterwards. 



August 15th. 



Breakfast. 


Luncheon, 


Dinner. 


Sardines. 


Scotcli Collops. 


Leveret Soup. 


Gernaiu Sausage. 


Plain Suet Pudding. 


Loin of Lamb, Braised. 


Scones. 




Potatoes. 


Dry Toast. 




Cauliflower. 


Watercress. 




Hajrick Puddings. 


Brown and White Brea<l 




Cheese. 


and Butter. 






Milk Porridge. 







Markecmg. 

For the Day.— Beef for Scotch Collops (January 9th) ; half a pound of Suet ; a 
Jjoiuof Lamb; Potatoes; Cauliflower; Parsley; Sea liiscuits. 

For To-morrow.— Plump Sheep's Kidneys, one for each person ; one moderate 
sized Turbot (June 6th) ; Shrimps or Lobster Spawn ; one good-sized Capon or 
a pair of Fowls, as required ; in.nredients for Veal P^orcemeat (June 27tli) ; one 
Lettuce ; a half -penny worth of Small Salad ; a half-pennyworth of Beetroot ; 
order four pennyworth of Cream for Normandy Pippins, if permitted; or, 
belter still, a little Devonshire Cream ; Potatoes ; French Beans ; a tin of 
potted Grouse for breakfast (January 7th). 

Breakfast. — Sardines (January 12th) ; German Sausage (June 
Gth) ; Scones (May 23rd) • Milk Porridge (June 13th). 

Luncheon. — Scotch Collops (January 9th) ; Plain Suet Pudding 
(May 13th). 

Dinner. — Leveret Soup (see Hare Soup, January 19th) ; Loin of 
Lamb, Braised (May 22nd); Potatoes (April 12th); Cauliflower 
(April 25th) ; Playrick Puddings (March 19tli) ; Cheese (June 8th). 



Things tliat must not be Forgotten. 

1. Pluck the fowl to-day and prepare the forcemeat, but do not 
stuff it (February 28th and June 27tli). 

2. Soak half a pound of Normandy pippins all night in a pint and 
a b;ilf of water. 

3. Make a little mayonnaise for the chicken salad to-morrow 
evening (August 30th). 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



29P 



Sunday, August 16th. 


Breakfast. 


Dinner. 


Tea. 


Supper. 


Devilled Eggs. 


Boiled Tnrbot. 


Brown and White 


Chicken Salad, 


Broiled Sheep's 


Shrimp or Lobster 


Bread and Butter. 


Pliun Pie. 


Kidneys. 


Sauce. 


Scones. 


Cheese. 


Scones. 


Fowl, Stuffed and 


Strawbei-ry Jam. 




Diy Toast. 


Eoasted. 


Seed Cake. 




BiowTi and Wliite 


Bread Sauce. 






Bread and Butter. 


Brown Gravy. 






Marmalade. 


Potatoes. 






Biscnits and Milk. 


French Beans. 
NoiTuandy Pippins. 








Cheese. 







Breakfast. — Devilled Eggs (February 27tli); Broiled Sheep's 
Kidneys (January 29tli) ; Scones (May 23rd) ; Biscuits and Milk 
(June 14th). 

DiNNEE. — Boiled Turbot (June 7th) : Shrimp Sauce (January 
30th) ; Lobster Sauce (June 7th) ; Fowl, Stuffed and Roasted (June 
30th); Brown Gravy (October 18th); Bread Sauce (October 18th); 
Potatoes (April 12th). French or Kidney Beans. — Cut off the stalks 
and draw away the fibre that runs down both sides ; cut the beans 
into thin strips lengthwise, and throw them into cold water 
till they are to be cooked. Have ready plenty of fast-boiling 
water slightly salted. Drain the beans, throw them into the 
boilin,^ water, and boil them rather quickly, ivith the lid off the 
pan, till they are tender. If young they will be done enough in a 
quarter of an hour; if large and old they will want half an hour 
Oi" more. Drain them in a colander, and serve in a hot tureen. It 
is a very great improvement to saut6 the beans before serving them, 
that is, to melt a slice of butter in a saucepan and shake the beans in 
it over the fire till they are coated with the butter. A pinch of salt 
and a tea-spoonful of white sugar should be sprinkled over them 
whilst they are in the pan. Beans thus j^repared are served 
in France as a separate course. When fresh beans are not to be 
had, tinned beans may be used, and will be found excellent. 
JVormandy Pijyjyins. — Put the pippins, with the water in v/hich 
they were soaked, into a pie-dish, and with them the thin rind of a 
large lemon and two ounces of loaf sugar. Place them in a gentle 
oven, and bake for about an hour and a half ; then add another two 
oun:;es of sugar, and bake again, still very gently, till the apples are 
tender. Strain the syrup, put with it the juice of the lemon, a few 
drops of cochineal, and a glass of port. Place the apples on a glass 
dish, pour the syrup (when cool) over them, and serve cold. Devon- 
shire cream is a great improvement to this dish, and if a spoonful be 
put on each apple its appearance will be improved. If Devonshire 
cream is not to be had, two or three blanched almonds may be stuck 
into the apples, and thick cream may be served as an accompaniment. 
If the pippins are quickly baked they will burst in cooking, and they 



•2P6 



A YH All's COOKERY. 



ought to be kej^t whole. Dried pears may he prepared in thp same 
way, and one or two cloves may be stewed in tlie syrnp with them. 
Cheese (June Sth). 

Tea. — Scones (May 23rd) ; Seed Cake (August 14th). 

Supper. — Chicken Salad (August 30th) ; Plum Pie (August 7th). 



Things that must not bo Forgotten. 

1. If any mayonnaise is left, put it into a bottle, cork it closely, 
and it w-ill keep for some time. 

2. If any beetroot is left, cut it into slices, cover it w4th vinegar, 
and it can be used the next time salad is w^anted. 

3. Pick the flesh from the turbot as soon as it leaves the table, and 
boil a little rice to make kedgeree for breakfast to-morrov/ (January 
10th). 



August 17th, 



Breakfast. 



Kcilg'eree. 

Potted Grouse. 

Hot Battered Toast. 

Dry Toast. 

Brown and Wliite Bread! 

and Bntter. 
Marmalade. 
Milk Porridge. 



Luncheon. 

Ecrqrs, Stewed with Chonso. 
Cake Pudding. 



Dinner. 



Croftte an Pot. 

Le;j of Lamb. 

Mint Sauce. 

Potatoes. 

Green Peas, if they are to 

be had. 
Macaroni Pudding. 
Clieese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— A phimp Leg of Lamb ; Mint ; Potatoes ; Green Peas. 
For To-morrow.— Half a pound of Mushrooms ; Small Salad, for breakfast ; 
three pennyworth of Cream ; a spoonful of Lobster Spawn. 



Breakfast. — Kedt^cree (January 10th) ; Potted Grouse (January 
7th) ; Milk Porridge (June 13th). _ 

Luncheon. — Eggs, Stewed with Cheese (February 10th) ; Cake 
Pudding (February 4th). 

Dinner. — CroCite au Pot (^lay 25th) ; Roast Leg of Lamb (March 
4th); Mint Sauce (March 25th); Potatoes (April 12th); Green Peas 
(July 12Lh) ; Macaroni Pudding (March 27th) ; Clieese (Juno sth). 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Partially prepare the rice and barley porridge (Note ,6, June 
1 5th). 

2. Put the lamb on a clean dish as soon as it leaves the table. 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



29? 



August 18th. 



Breakfast. 


Luncheon. 


Diniier, 


Mnshrooins on Toast. 


Cold Lamb. 


Bisque Soui>. 


E!?gs on the Dish. 


Mint Sauce. 


Cun-ied Veal. 


Hot Buttered Toast. 


Salad. 


Boiled Eice. 


Dry Toast. 


Coiiipoln of Pluma. 


French Beans. 


Mustard aud Cress. 




Eoly-poly Pudding. 


Brown and White Brejid 




Cheese. 


aud Butter. 






Eice and Barley Porridge. 







Marketing. 

For the Day.— A large Lettuce, Beetroot, Watercress, &c. ; Plums for com- 
pote ; a moderate-sized Crab. Moderate-sized fish arc the best. If the crab 
feels light it is not good. Crabs are at their best from April to October. A 
pound and a half or more of Veal Cutlet for curry ; French Beans ; six ounces 
of Beef Suet for roly-poly pudding ; a small, plump Leg of Mutton for 
pickling ; Fi-esh Fruit for tlie Kothe Griitze. 

For To-morrow.— Small Soles for breakfast (Januai-y 3rd) ; order a Lamb's Fry 
for to-morrow. 



Breakfast. — Mushrooms on Toast (March 20th) ; Eggs on the 
Dish (December 7th) ; Rice and Barley Porridge (June 15th). 

Luncheon. — liainb served yesterday ; Mint Sauce (March 25th) ; 
Salad (March l3tli) ; Compote of Plums (August 5th). 

Dinner. — Bisque Soup (October 17th). Curried Veal. — Follow 
tlie recipe for Curried Ptabbit (July 16tli), and substitute the veal for 
the ral:)bit. Boiled Ptice (July 21st) ; French Beans (August IGth). 
Rohj-x>oly Puddinrj. — Make some suet crust with one pound of 
flour (June 25th), roll it out till it is moderately thin, and let it be 
longer than broad ; spread jam over it to within half an inch of the 
edge all round, wet the edges, roll the pudding up to make it like a 
bolster, press the edges together, and roll it in a cloth that has been 
wrung out of boiling water and floured. Tie the ends of the cloth 
securely close to the pudding, plunge it into boiling water, and keep 
it boiling without ceasing for an hour and a half. Let it cool a minute, 
turn it upon a dish, and send sweet sauce (July 19th) to table with 
it. _ If preferred, treacle can be substituted for the jam in this recipe. 
It is a good plan to i)ut an old plate under the pudding in the sauce- 
pan, to keep it from sticking to the pan. Cheese (June 8t]i). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. ^lake some pickle (;^Larch 19th) and put the leg of mutton 
into it. 

2. Put a cupful of green lentils to soak all niglit in cold water. 

3. Lemon Gheesecctkes. — It is a good thing to have on hand some 
lemon paste for making lemon cheesecakes. This should be made 
when there is a convenient opportunity. If kept in a cool place it 
will remain good for years. The following is the recipe : — Grate the 
rinds of two large lemons upon a coarse grater, and clean the grater 
with as mnny bread-crumbs, and no more, as will take off all the rind. 



298 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



Add Iialf a pound of white sugar and tlie juice of one of tlie lemons. 
Beat six eggs, turn tliem into a jar with the grated lemon mixture 
and a quarter of a pound of butter ; put the jar into a saucepan with 
two or three inches of boiling water, place it on the fire, and stir the 
lemon mixture till it is as thick as honey. It may either be used at 
once or kept till wanted. When it is to be used, line some patty-pans 
with pastry, half fill them with the mixture, and bake in a quick oven. 
4. Make Rothe Griitze for dinner to-morrow (December 10th). 



August 19th. 



Breakfast. 


Luncheon. 


Dinner. 


Potted Grouse. 


Lamb's Fry. 


Baked Whiting. 


Baked Slips. 


Baked Batter Pudding. 


Koast Beef. 


Hot Buttered Toast. 




Lentils. 


Dry Toast. 




Browned Potatoes 


Browu and White Bread 




Rothe Griitze. 


and Butter. 




Cheese. 


Mn.rmalade. 






Milk Toast. 







Marketing. 



For the Day.— Lamb's Fry, ordered yesterday ; three or four AVhiting (.Tannary 
17th). Whiting can be obtained at this time of the year, and may be chosen 
for the sake of variety, but it is at its best from October to jMarcli. A Sirhun 
of Beef weighing about eight pounds ; Potatoes ; three or four small Mush- 
rooms or a small tin of Champignons ; I'arsley. 

For To-morrow.— A Collared Tongue (January 2nd) ; a pint of Plums for 
breakfast. Ask the poulterer to prescr^•e two or three sets of Giblets for 
to-morrow ; tliey can be stewed for hincheon. Duck's, Goose, or Fowl's 
Giblets may all be used. Watercress. Grouse {sec August 29th). 



Breakfast. — Potted Grouse served day before yesterday ; Baked 
Slips (January 7th) ; Milk Toast (June 17th). 

Luncheon. — Lamb's Fry (May 16th) ; Baked Batter Pudding 
(February 5th). 

Dinner. — Baked Whiting. — Scale, empty, and wash the whiting, 
then lay them in a cloth to dry them thoroughly. Mince the mush- 
rooms, and have ready a table-spoonful of chopped parsley and a 
little salt and cayenne. Butter a baking-tin rather thickly, sprinkle 
half the parsley and mushrooms in it, and lay the whiting on the top. 
Season tliem with salt and cayenne, squeeze the juice of a lemon over 
them, add what remains of the parsley and mushroom, and cover the 
fish with sifted bread-crumbs that have been browned in the oven. 
Put a slice of butter, broken into small pieces, here and there upon 
the fish, pour over it about half a gill of strong stock, to which a 
spoonful of slierry can be added if liked, and bake in a brisk oven 
till the fish is done enough. It will take from ten to fifteen minutes. 
Put the whiting on a hot dish, strain the gravy over, and serve. Pioast 
Beef (March 4th); Lentils (March 2nd); Potatoes (April 12th); 
Custard l^lancmango (August 4th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 



A YEARS COOKERY. 



Ka 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Turn and rub the mutton in tlie pickle. 

2. Prepare tlie plum porridge for breakfast to-morrow (August 31st). 

3. Alake a corn-flour blancmange for dinner to-morrow (June 
15th). 



August 20th. 



Breakfast. 


Luncheon. 


Dinner. 


Savom-y Etrgs. 


stewed Giblets. 


Macaroni Soup. 


CoUared Tougaie. 


Savoui-y Rice. 


Cold Beef. 


Hot Buttered Toast. 




Salad. 


Dry Toast. 




Potatoes. 


Brown and Wliite Bread 




Corn-flour Blancmange. 


and Butter, 




Lemon Syrup. 


Watercress. 




Clieese. 


Phun Pon-idge. 







Marketing. 

For the Day.— Giblets ordered j^esterday; a fine Cos Lettuce; "Watercress; 
yoiing Onions ; lladishes ; Beetroot ; Potatoes ; Macaroni for soup ; Salt- 
petre (August 27th) ; a dozen fresh Herrings, half soft and lialf hard roes. 

For To-morrow.— Half a poiond of Bacon in rashers ; Rhubarb. 

Breakfast. — Savoury Eggs (January 1st); Collared Tongite 
(January 2nd) ; Plum Porridge (August 31st). 

LuNCHEOK — Stewed Giblets (February Gtli) ; Savoury llice (June 
l7tL). 

Dinner. — Macaroni Soup (February 26tli); Beef served yester- 
day; Salad (March 13tli); Potatoes (May 12tli); Corn-fllour Blanc- 
mange (June 15tli) ; Lemon Syrup (March 19th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Turn and rub the mutton in the pickle. 

2. Make the rhubarb mould (June 3rd) for luncheon. 

3. Pickle the Fresh Herrings. — Cut off the heads and tails of the 
fish, scrape and wash them well, and split each one in halves, taking 
out the bones. Rub each half with pepper, salt, and mustard, and 
grate a very small quantity of nutmeg on each. Poll the halves 
separately, and pack them in a stone jar (one that would hold three 
pounds of jam or marmalade would be about the right size). Pound 
the soft roes of the hsh, and mix them with half a pint of vinegar 
and as much water as would cover the herrings. Put a couple of 
bay-leaves on the top of all, cover the jar tightly, and bake in a 
gentle oven for about an hour. When the fish is cold it is ready to 
serve, and will be most excellent for either breakfast, luncheon, or 
supper. The lish should be turned in the vinegar every day, and will 
keep good for three or four days even in summer. To serve these 
herrings, place them on a dish, with two or three parsley-leaves on 
each small roll. Pour a little of the gravy into the dish. 



FOO 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



Breakfast, 

Pickled Herrings. 

Toasted liaeon. 

Hot Buttered Toast. 

Dry Toast. 

Bi'own and WMte Bread and 

Butter. 
Oatmeal Porridge. 



August 2Jst. 



Luncheon. 

Croquettes. 
Eluibarb Mould. 
Milk. 



Dinner. 

MidlJcratawney Soup, 
Chops, with Piquante 

Sauce. 
French Beans. 
Fried Potatoes. 
Ground Rice Pudding 
Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— Three to foiir pounds of the best end of a Loin of Mutton (April 

30tli) ; Plums ; French Beans ; Potatoes ; a pennyworth of German Yeast. 
For To-morrow.— Lambs' Sweetbreads ; Fillet of Beef (January 2nd). 



Breakfast. — Pickled Herrings (August 20tli); Toasted Bacon 
(January 19th) ; Porridge (January 25th). 

Luncheon. — Croquettes, made of the remains of the cold beef 
(Ptissoles, January 6th) ; Pihubarb Mould (June 3rd). 

Dinner. — Mulligatawney Soup (stock made of beef bones, Feb- 
ruary 13th), (January IGtli) ; Chops, witli Piquante Sauce (April 
30th) ; French Beans (August 16th) ; Fried Potatoes (February 2nd). 
Ground Eire Pudding. — Flavour a quart of milk by heating it gently 
witli some thinly-cut lemon-rind, a little l)it of cinnamon, or a couple 
of laurel-leaves. When ])lcasantly flavoured, take out tlie flavouring 
ingredient and boil the milk. Mix four ounces of ground rice smoothly 
with a little cold milk, add this to the boiling milk, and stir till thick. 
Put the rice into a bowl, let it cool, then mix with it a little sugar, 
a piece of butter the size of a nut, and two well-beaten eggs. Turn 
into a buttered dish, and bake in a gentle oven. If the oven is hot, 
the pudding will be watery. A spoonful of brandy will improve the 
pudding, and an additional Qgg will enrich it. Cheese (June 8th). 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Turn and rub the mutton in the pickle. 

2. Partially prepare the lambs' sweetbreads for breakfast to- 
morrow (Oct, 22nd). 

3. Turn the herrings in the vinegar. 

4. Pastry is to be made to-day (April 17th); Plum Pies (August 
7th) ; also Teacakes (August 26th) and Annie's Cake (September 
25th). 

5. Stew the top of the loin of mutton for luncheon to-morrow 
(May 1st). 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



301 



August 22nd. 



Breakfast. 


Luncheon. 


Dinner. 


Lambs* Sweetbreads. 


Pickled Hei-riugs. 


Milk Soup. 


Collared Tongue. 


To]) of the Loin of Mutton, 


FiUet of Beef. 


Teacakes. 


Stewed- 


Potatoes. 


Dry Toast. 


Salad. 


Cauliflower. 


Brown and Wliite Bread 




Plum Pie. 


and Butter. 




Cheese. 


Marmalade. 






Com-floiir Milk. 







Marketing. 

For the Day.— Potatoes ; Cauliflower ; Lettuce ; small Salad ; Beetroot ; young 
Onions. 

For To-morrow.— Three or four Red Mullet. This fish may be had all the year, 
but it is at its best at the time when it is cheapest, that is, from July to 
October. It is very variable in price. Generally fish is chosen for its fresh- 
ness, but red miillet is better for bein^ kept a short tLme. It is called the 
woodcock of the sea, and its liver is esteemed a delicacy, while next to tho 
liver stands the head. When taken out of the water it is of a beautiful rose- 
colour. It is rarely more than twelve inches long. Ajar of Anchovy Paste ; 
a Fore-quarter of Lamb (April 11th) ; ]VIint ; French Beans ; Potatoes; ingre- 
dients for a Salad ; French Chocolate ; three pennyworth of Cream, if per- 
mitted ; a pound of Plimis for the gateau. 



Breakfast. — Lambs' Sweetbreads (Oct 22iicl); Collared Tongue 
(January 2iid); Teacakes (February 14tli); Corn-flour Milk (June 19tli). 

LuNCiiEOK — Pickled Herrings (August 20th) ; Stewed Mutton 
(May 1st) ; Salad (March 13th). 

Dinner. — Milk Soup (January 3rd) ; Roast Fillet of Beef (Feb- 
ruary 11th); Potatoes (May 12th); Cauliflower (April 25th); Plum 
Pie (August 7th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Turn and rub the mutton in the pickle. 

2. Make a plum gateau for supper to-morrow evening (July 11th). 

3. Cut all the meat from the cold beef, and make Cornish Pasties 
for breakfast to-morrow. They may be made and baked, then 
warmed in the oven for breakfast, or, if preferred, they can be 
eaten cold. Cut up the beef into small pieces, and season it with 
jxipper and salt. Wash and peel a few potatoes, half boil them, 
then cut them up also. Make some short crust (June 19th) with 
flour, dripping, and baking-powder. Roll this out till it is about 
a quarter of an inch thick, and divide it into small squares about 
five inches across. Put a little meat and potato upon each square, 
moisten the edges, and fold the jiastry over the meat, then press the 
edges securely together. Bake till the pastry is done enough. Some- 
times turnips are substituted for potatoes in Cornish Pasties. 



302 



A YUAB'S COOKERY. 



Sunday, August 23rd. 



Breakfast. 


Dinner. 


Tea. 


Supper. 


Anchovy Paste. 


Ked Mullet, Baked. 


Brown and Wliite 


Cold Lamb. 


Coruisli Pasties. 


Roast Quarter of 


Bread and Butter. 


Mint Saiice. 


Toasted Toacakes. 


Lamb. 


Teacakes. 


Salad. 


Dry Toast. 


Mint Sauce. 


Raspberry and Red 


Plum Gateau. 


Browu and White 


Potatoes. 


Ciu-rant Jam. 


Cheese. 


Bread and Butter. 


French Beans. 


Annie's Cake. 




Bread and Milk. 


Chocolate Pudding. 

Custard. 

Cheese. 







Breakfast. — Ancliovy Paste bouglit yesterday ; Cornish Pasties 
(x\ugust 22ud); Teacakes (February 14tli) ; Bread and Milk (January 
25tli). 

Dinner. — Bed Mullet, Baked. — Pted mullet may be broiled or 
baked, but it should never be boiled, or the liver, which is the titbit 
v,dth epicures, will be lost. Wash and dry the iisli, but do not either 
scale or open it. Cut off the fins, and carefully take out the gills, with 
the small thread-like intestine that will adhere to them. Oil some 
sheets of ungiazed paper, one for each fish, and bake them for two 
or three minutes to harden them. Put a piece of fresh butter in each 
paper case, and sprinkle pepper and salt upon it. Lay the fish on the 
butter, put a little butter upon it, fold the paper over, and fasten the 
ends securely. Put the fish thus fastened in paper into a baking- 
tin, and bake them in a moderate oven. They will be done enough 
in about half an hour. They may be served in the paper or not, 
as approved, but they look better A\ithout the paper. A little 
lemon-juice should be squeezed over them. For sauce, take a quarter 
of a pint of melted butter (July 17th). Stir into this the gravy in 
the pan, add salt and cayenne, a glass of sherry, and a tea-spoonful 
of essence of anchovies. Boil up once, and serve in a tureen. Ptoast 
Quarter of Lamb (^larch 4th and x\pril 12th) ; Mint Sauce (INIarch 
25th) ; Potatoes (A])ril 12th) ; French Beans (August 16th) ; Choco- 
late Pudding (July 24th) ; Custard (August 10th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 

Tea.— Teacakes (February 14th); Annie's Cake (September 25th). 

Supper.— Salad (March 13th) ; Plum Gateau (July 11th). 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Turn and rub the mutton in the pickle. 

2. Put a cupful of hominy to soak all night in cold water 
(February 10th). 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



sas 



August 24th, 



Breakfast. 


Luncheon. 


Dinner. 


Anchovy Paste. 


Cold Lamb. 


Pried Plaice. 


Poachea Eggs. 


Salad. 


Dutch Sauce. 


Teacakes. 


Boiled Kice, with Raisins. 


Norman Haricot. 


Dry Toast. 




Canliflower. 


Brown aud White Bread 




Young Carrots. 


and Butter. 




Cottage Plum Pudding. 


Marmalade. 




Cheese. 


Boiled Hominy. 







Marketing. 
For the Day — IMaterials for a Salad ; a thick Plaice (April 21st) ; about three 

pounds of lean Veal from the fiUct; new Potatoes ; Cauliflowers; a slice of 

lean Ham ; yoimg Carrots ; six ounces of Suet. 
For To-morrow.— A dried Haddock; four ripe Tomatoes; half a pound of 

Bacon (Januaiy 3rd); a quarter of a pound of Macaroni;' Mustard and 



Breakfast. — Anchovy Paste served yesterday ; Poached Eggs 
(February 6th) ; Teacakes (February 14th) ; Boiled Hominy (Feb- 
ruary 11th). 

^ Luncheon. — Lamb served yesterday ; Salad (March 13th); Boiled 
Rice, with llaisins (February 3rd). 

Dinner.— Fried Plaice (April 21st) ; Dutch Sauce (May 14th). 
Norman Haricot. — Cut the veal into neat pieces convenient for 
serving, and about half an inch thick. Brown them on both sides in 
a frying-pan with a little dripping, and with them the ham, also cut 
into neat pieces. Take them up, and pour a pint of stock or water 
into the pan in which they were fried, scrape the pan with a spoon to 
get {fU the gravy, and let the water boil up. Put the meat into a 
stewpan, in a single layer, if possible ; pour the gravy over it, and add 
a bunch of parsley, a sprig oi thyme, and a bay-leaf. Let the veal 
simmer very gently by the side of the lire for about three-quarters of 
an hour. Take two pounds of small new potatoes, wash and scrape 
them, throw them into boiling water, and let the water boil up once. 
Take them up, put them upon the veal, and simmer again until the 
potatoes are tender. Skim the fat from the gravy, taste it, and add 
pepper and salt if required. Thicken it with a little corn-flour mixed 
smoothly with water, and add a little lemon-juice if liked, and 
browning if necessary. Put the veal on a hot dish, garnish with the 

Eotatoes, and serve. Young carrots (July 6th), or, when they can be 
ad, green peas (July 12th), are excellent as an accompaniment to 
this dish. Cauliflower (April 25th) ; Cottage Plum Pudding (June 
6th) j Cheese (June 8th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Turn and rub the nuitton in the pickle. 

2. Put a cupful of white haricot beans to soak all night in cold 
water. 



sai 



A YEARS COOKERY. 



3. Preserve any boiled hominy that may be left ; it can be fried 
Cor breakfast to-morrow. 



August 25th, 



Breakfast. 


Luncheon. 


Dinner. 


Dried Haddock. 


Baked Mackerel. 


Fresh Hen-ings. 


Toiuatoes and Bacon. 


Macaroni and Mushrooms. 


Mustard Sauce. 


Hot Buttered Toast. 




Sovrr Mutton. 


Dry Toast. 




Potatoes. 


Brown and White Bread 




Haricot Beans. 


and Bntter. 




Cocoa-nut Pudding. 


Mustard and Cress. 




Cheese. 


Fried Hominy. 







Marketing. 

For the Day.— Half a pound of Mushrooms ; two moderate-sized fresh Mackerel 
(April <lth) ; fresh Herrings. One may be allowed for eacli person. The her- 
rings should be bright and silvery, and should have their scales uninjured ; 
choose plump fish. In this instance the soft-rood fish are to be preferred. 
Potatoes ; a tin of desiccated Cocoa-nut. 

For To-morrow.— A tin of Sardines (January 12th) ; a Bath Chap, that is, a 
pig's cheek cui-ed like bacon ; speak for two sets of fresh Giblets for to- 
morrow ; Watercress ; a pound of Fresh Fruit. 



Breakfast. — Dried Haddock (January 27tli) ; Tomatoes and 
Bacon (July 12tli) ; Fried Hominy (February 121 h). 

Luncheon. — Baked Mackerel (April 15th). Macaroni and 
MusJirooms. — Boil a quarter of a pound of macaroni in a pint and a 
half of water, with a little pepper and salt, for twenty minutes, or till a 
little piece can be crushed between the thumb and finger. Drain the 
macaroni, put it into a clean stewpan, pour a quarter of a pint of stock 
over it, with an ounce of butter and an ounce of grated cheese. Stir 
it over a gentle fire for five minutes ; turn on a hot dish. Have ready 
the mushrooms, put them on the macaroni, and serve. To prepare 
the mushrooms, wash and skin them, cut them into slices, and put 
them into a stewpan, with an ounce of butter and a little pepper and 
salt. Toss them over the fire for ten minutes ; take them up, and they 
are ready. 

DiNNEii. — Fresh Herrings, with Mustard Sauce (September 15th) ; 
Sour Mutton (March 29tli) ; Potatoes (Api'il 12th) ; Haricot Beans 
(June 20th) ; Cocoa-nut Pudding (August 8th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Soak the bath chap in cold water for three or four hours, then 
boil it according to the directions already given for pig's cheek 
(February 1st). 

2. Prepare the sago mould for luncheon to-morrow (October 8th). 



A YEARS COOKERY. 



305 



August 26th, 



Breakfast. 


LuDcheon. 


Dinner. 


Sf.rdines. 


Cold Mutton. 


Giblet Soup. 


Bath Chap. 


Salad. 


Pigeon Pie. 


Hot Buttered Toast. 


Sa-o, with Fruit Juioe. 


French Beans. 


Dry Toast. 




Potatoes. 


Biowu and White Bread 




Wyvern Pudding's. 


and Butter. 




Cheese. 


Watercress. 






Biscuits and MUk. 







Marketing. 

For the Day.— Materials for Salad ; fom' plump young Pigeons ; a pound and a 
halt" of lean Veal from the leg or the lohi ; French Beans ; Potatoes ; fresii 
German Yeast ; Carbonate of Soda and Cream of Tartar, for scones. 

Breakfast.— Sardines (January 12tli) ; Bath Chaps (February 
1st) ; Biscuits and Milk (June 14th). 

Luncheon. — Mutton, served yesterday; Salad (March 13th); Sago 
Mould (October 8th). 

Dinner. — Giblet Soup (February 1st) ; P.ii,^eon Pie (May 15th). 
Rough Putf Paste (May 2yth) will be excellent for this pie. Kidney 
Beans (August 16th) ; Potatoes (April 12th) ; Wyvern Puddings 
(?flay 9th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. The remnants of the cold mutton can 1 )e minced, and, with the 
trimmings of the pastry, made into a mutton tart (January 10th) for 
luncheon to-morrow. 

2. If a little additional pastry were made, a plum pie (August 
7th) could be made for dinner to-morrow, 

3. Preserve any pigeon pie tliat may be left ; it can be used for 
breakfast to-morrow. 

4 As pastry is on hand, and the oven will be hot, it may perhaps 
be wished to make a few scones or tcacakes for breakfast. In hot 
weather, milk that his gone sour (as it is very likely to do) may be 
either put into pastry or made into scones. If there is no sour milk, 
a pint extra could be taken, and kept all night for the purpose. If 
kept in a warm place it would be almost sure to have turned by 
morning. Scones with Sour Milk (real Scotch recipe). — Mix thoroughly 
a pound and a half of flour, a pinch of salt, a heaped tea-spoonful of 
carbonate of soda, and the same of cream of tartar. JMix to a light 
paste with a pint of sour milk, knead the dough a little, roll it out till 
about a third of an inch thick, and cut it into three-cornered pieces, 
each side being about four inches long. Put the scones on a floured 
tin, and bake in a quick oven. Scones made ivith BaldiKj-jKmder.— 
Hub four ounces of butter or clarified dripping into a pound of flour, 
and add a pinch of salt and a dessert-spoonful of baking-powder, 
U 



306 A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



Make into a rather stiff paste with milk, roll out, and make up as 
above. If liked, tliis paste can be rolled and made into horns, like 
Vienna bread. Milk Rolls made with Bahing-j^oivder. — Rub two 
ounces of butter into a pound of flour, and add a small pinch of salt 
and a heaped tea-spoonful of baking-powder (August 2nd). Stir in milk 
to make a smooth, stiff, elastic dough, but do not handle it more than 
is necessary. Divide it into balls, and bake immediately in a brisk 
oven. When half baked, brush the rolls with milk. This dough may 
be made into twists or half moons, like Vienna bread. Vienna Bread. 
— Take one pound of Vienna flour, one pound of best biscuit flour, 
and a pinch of salt. Choose a bowl not over large ; one that will hold 
three times the quantity of flour will be right. Hub in two ounces 
of butter, dissolve an ounce of German yeast by mixing it with a 
spoonful of sugar, add gradually a pint of lukewarm milk and two 
well-beaten eggs. ]\Iix the liquid with the flour, and knead well till 
the dough is smooth and lithe. Score it with a knife, cover it v/ith a 
clean towel, leave it in a warm place, where it is free from a 
current of air, and cover it with a cloth. In summer-time it will 
very likely be all right on the kitchen table ; in winter it would 
be better to stand on the fender, but it must not be in a draught. 
It will probably rise suffi-ciently in two hours or a little more. 
Make it into plaits, rolls, or crescents, brush the top with beaten 
e;gg, and bake in a quick oven. To make a crescent or horn, 
as it is sometimes called, roll the dough into a kind of equi- 
lateral triangle. Of course, it is not necessary to be very exact. 
Roll the pastry up, beginning at one of the sides, by doing which 
the middle part will be thicker than the sides, then draAv the two 
ends of the roll towards one another, to make a Idnd of crescent. 
TeacaJces. — Rub six ounces of butter, or three ounces of butter and 
three ounces of lard, into two pounds of flour, and add a pinch of salt. 
Dissolve rather less than an ounce of fresh German yeast with half 
a pint of lukewarm water. Put the flour into a bowl that will hold 
about three times the ciuantity, scoop a hole in the middle of it with- 
out leaving the bottom of the bowl uncovered, and pour in the 
dissolved yeast. Draw a little of the flour in from the sides, and stir 
it into the liquor to make a thin batter ; sprinkle flour over this, cover 
the bowl, and leave it in a warm place, as in Vienna Bread. 
When bubbles begin to break through the flour it is ready. Beat 
two eggs, mix them with about two table-spoonfuls of milk, and knead 
all well together, adding as much lukewarm milk as will make a lithe 
smooth dough. Score this with a knife, cover the bowl with a cloth, 
and leave it till well risen. Divide it into ten pieces, roll these into 
cakes the size of a saucer, put them on a baking-tin before the fire for 
a few minutes, and bake in a quick oven. They must on no account 
be turned over in baking. In Yorkshire, where teacakes are very 

Eopular, currants are often added to the dough, but they should not 
e worked in till the dough has risen. A quarter of a pound of 
currants would be enough for this quantity of flour. Sally Lunns,-^ 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



307 



Take an ounce of fresh German yeast, a pound and a half of flour, a 
quarter of a pound of butter, two eggs, and a pinch of salt. Put the 
flour into a bowl and mix the salt with it. Put the butter and milk 
into a saucepan over the fire, and stir till the butter is melted. The 
milk should be rather more than lukewarm. Mix the yeast ^^ith 
sugar till it is liquid, add the milk gradually, and stir this into the 
flour. Throw in the eggs lightly beaten, and knead to a smooth 
dough. Divide the dough into four portions, put them into greased 
round tins, cover them over, and put them in a warm place to rise. 
When they have risen to almost three times their original size, bake 
in a quick oven. N.B. — If in the recipes given above Vienna flour, 
or a portion of Vienna flour, be permitted the rolls w411 be lighter and 
whiter. Vienna flour is about double the price of the best biscuit 
flour. It is used for superior cakes and pastry. 



August 27th. 



Breakfast. 


Luncheon. 


Dinner. 


Eemains of Pigeon Pie. 


Mutton Tavt. 


Boiled Brill. 


Batli Chap. 


Plain Ptice Pudding. 


Dutch Sauce. 


Teacakes. 




Leg of Lamb, Boasted. 


Dry Toast. 




Mint Sauce. 


lirown and White liread 




Potatoes. 


and Butter. 




Cauliflower. 


Milk Toast. 




Phun Pie. 
Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day. -A Brill (January 9th) ; a plump Leg of Lamb (April 11th) ; Mint '» 

Potatoes ; Cauliflower. 
For To-morrow.— Three or four fresh Sheep's Kidneys ; a quarter of a pound of 

Bacon in rashers; a plump Chicken, or two, as required (June 29th and 

August 6th). 

Breakfast. — Pigeon Pie and Bath Chap, served yesterday ; Tea- 
cakes (February 14th) ; Milk Toast (June 17th). 

LuNCHEOX.— Mutton Tart (January 10th); Plain Eice Pudding 
(February 24th). 

Dii^XEE.— Boiled Brill (January 9th) ; Dutch Sauce (May 14th) ; 
Ptoast Lamb (March 4th) ; Mint Sauce (March 25th) ; Potatoes (Apri 
_12th) ; Cauliflower (April 25th) ; Cheese (June 8th). Pulled Bread 
is very much liked with cheese. To make this take a newly-baked 
loaf of bread, rem.ove the crust, and pull the cmmb lightly and 
quickly into rough pieces about three inches long. Bake these in a 
gentle oven till they are crisp and of a light brown colour. 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Make a stone cream for dinner to-morrow (July 1st). 

2. As soon as the lamb is taken from table put it on a clean dish, 

3. Partially prepare the rice milk (Note 3, June 17th). 



308 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



4. Pluck tlie fowls, and hang them in a cool larder (February 28tli). 

5. To Keep Butter in Hot Weather. — in very hot weather it ia 
often found difficult to keep butter firm. Ice keeps it right, but ico 
is not always to be had, and when this is the case the following 
method may be adopted. Dissolve half a tea-spoonful of saltpetre in 
a i)int of water, and put this in a pie-dish. Place the butter in a 
jar, and put the jar in the dish containing the saltpetre water. Lay 
a clean cloth over the batter, and let the corners rest in the saltpetre 
water. Keep the butter in as cool and dark a place as can be found, 
and change the water every day. If butter tastes rancid, wash it well 
first with new milk and afterwards with cold water. Fresh butter 
keeps well when kept in water that has tartaric acid dissolved in it. 
A dessert-spoonful of acid may be allowed for a gallon of water. 



August 28th. 



Breakfast. 



Fried Kidneys and Bacon. 

Batli Chap. 

Teacakes. 

Dry Toast. 

Brown Bread and Butter. 

Marmalade. 

Rice Milk. 



Lunelle on. 

Cold Lamb. 

Salad. 

Custard Sippet3. 



Dinner. 

Salmon Cutlets. 
Cliicken Pudding. 
Potatoes. 
Baked Tomatoes. 
Stone Cream. 
Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— IMaterials for Salad. About a pound and a half of the tail end of 
a Salmon. This part is chosen because it is the cheapest. Half a dozen ripe 
Tomatoes ; a slice of lean Ham ; Potatoes ; six or eight fresh Mackerel "with 
soft roes (April 4th) ; a pennyworth of German Yeast. 

For To-morrow.— Half a poimd of Mushrooms ; Plums and Apples. 



Breakfast. — Fried Kidneys and Bacon (January 2nd) ; Bath 
Chap, served yesterday ; Teacakes (February 14th) ; Rice Milk (June 
18th). 

Luncheon. — Lamb, served yesterday; Salad (March 13th); Custard 
Sippets (June 10th). 

Dinner. — Salmon Cutlets (July 19th). Chicken Pudding. — Empty 
the crop, take out the inside, and divide the chickens into neat 
pieces. Line a pudding-basin with good suet crust (June 25th) ; 
arrange the pieces of cliicken neatly inside, interspersed M-ith the 
ham, v/hich has been also neatly divided. Season with pepper and 
salt, and pour over all a little strong gravy, made of the chicken 
giblets. Cover in the usual way (June 25th). The addition of one or 
two sheep's kidneys will greatly improve this dish, as \\i\\ also a few 
mushrooms, or, when they are in season, a few oysters. The pudding 
should be long and gently boiled. Potatoes (April 12th); Baked 
Tomatoes (July 7th) ; Stone Cream (July 1st) ; Cheese (June 8th). 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



309 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Preserve the chicken bones ; they will be a valuable addition 
to the stock-pot. 

2. Pastry is to be made to-day (April 17th) : PI urn and apple pie 
(August 7tli); lemon cheesecakes (August ISth) ; custard tart 
(January 19th); also seed cake (August 14th) and Vienna bread 
(August 26th). 

3. PicMed Mackerel. — The mackerel should be pickled at once. Cut 
the heads and tails off the fish, clean them, and be careful to remove 
the brown substance which sticks to the backbone near the head, as 
this may make the fish taste bitter. Loosen the backbone by pressing 
it with the thumb and finger of the right hand whilst holding the 
mackerel in the left hand, and take the bone out whole. Divide tlie 
flesh and the roe into neat pieces convenient for serving. Take a 
stone jar, put in a few pieces of fish, then season with pepper and salt, 
pour vinegar over, and add a shalot and a bay-leaf. Put in the rest 
of the fish, pepper and salt it again, and pour vinegar over all. Put 
the lid on the jar, cover it with paper, tie it on tightly, and bake in a 
gentle oven for two hours. Turn the fish on a dish, remove the herbs, 
garnish with fennel and parsley, and serve. For economy's sake one- 
fourth of water can be put with the vinegar. Mackerel thus prepared 
should be turned in the liquor every day, and if kept in a cool place 
will keep a week. 

4. Partially prepare the plum porridge for breakfast to-morrow 
(August 31st). 



August 29th, 



Breakfast. 

Pickled Mackerel. 

Muslu'oouis ou Toast. 

Vienna Bread. 

Dry Toast. 

Brown and WMte Bread 

and Butter. 
Plum Porridge. 



Luncheon. 

Scrag of Mutton, Stewed 

with Rice. 
Hasty Pudding. 



Dinner. 

Boiled Hake. 
Stewed Steak. 
Fried Potatoes. 
Young Carrots. 
Vermicelli Puddiug. 
Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— Two or three pounds of the Scrag of IMutton ; about three pounds 
of fresh Hake (August 7th) ; Steak for stewing (January 31st) ; Potatoes ; 
Carrots. 

For TO'inorrow.— Two or three pounds of Salmon (July 4th) ; a couple of Ducks 
(July Ith) ; Sage and Onions, for stuiiing; Beans ; Potatoes ; a plump young 
Chicken, for chicken salad (.June 29th), or the Grouse bought August 19th 
maybe used; materials for a Salad; a pound of Plums. Grouse shooting 
commences on the 12th of August, but the birds should be allowed to hang 
as long as possible before they are cooked. Grouse is usually regarded by 
epicures as the finest of all winged game. It is so uncertain in price that if 
it has to be purchased it can scarcely be placed in the list of provisions which 



310 A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



are at the disposal of the economical housekeeper Sometimes, however, 
owing to exceptional circmnstances, it is to be had for a reasonable price, 
and then it proves a welcome addition to the daily fare. Watercress ; Fruit 
for Cream {see Note 2, below). Bloaters (January 29th) ; and a tin of 
Collared Sheep's Tongue for breakfast on August 31st. 

Beeakfast. — Pickled Mackerel (August 28tli); Mushrooms on 
Toast (March 20th); Vienna Bread (August 26th); Plum Porridge 
(August 31st). 

Luncheon. — Scrag of ^Mutton, Stewed with Eice (February 21st) ; 
Hasty Pudding (March 30th). 

DiNNEPw — Boiled Hake {see Salmon, Boiled, July 5th); Stewed 
Steak (January 31st); Fried Potatoes (February 2nd); Carrots (July 
6th); Vermicelli Pudding (August 1st) ; Cheese (June 8th). 



Things that must not be Forgotten, 

1. Pluck the ducks and the chicken or grouse, and cure the 
feathers (February 28th). 

2. Make the Straivherry Cream for supper to-morrow night. This 
can be made either with fresh fruit (one pint for half a pint of cream) 
or with jelly (two good table-spoonfuls to half a pint of cream). The 
same recipe may be followed in making creams of other fruit, such as 
raspberries, red currants, apricots, &c. Fresh fruit should have sugar 
sprinkled over it for an hour or two to make the juice flow freely, and 
if it is at all hard it should be gently stewed. When jelly is used 
instead of fresh fruit a little lemon -juice should be added. Soak an 
ounce of gelatine in a cupful of milk for an hour. Dissolve the jelly, 
boil it with an ounce of sugar, and put the gelatine witli it. Put the 
half pint of cream in a bowl. Whisk it in a cool place till it begins 
to thicken, then stop yrhisking it immediately, or it will curdle. 
Put the whipped cream mth the fruit, and stir the mixture lightly 
together. Scald a mould with hot water, then rinse it out with 
cold water. Pour the mixture into it, and put it in a cool place 
or upon ice till stiff. When fresh fruit is used it should be rubbed 
through a hair sieve, and the pulp only should be taken. If liked, 
custard can be substituted for the fruit juice, and so Italian Cream 
can be made. For the custard half a pint of milk, the yolks of three 
and the white of one Qgg, and a little sugar will be required (August 
10th). 

3. Make the mayonnaise (August 30th) for supper to-morrow 
night. 

4. Make the plums into a compote for to-morrow (August 5th). 

5. Roast the grouse or the chicken, and leave it till to-morrow to 
be made into a salad (June 30th and Note 1, August 30th). If 
preferred, the grouse could be roasted and served hot for dinner, and 
the remains, if there were any, could be made into a salad. In this 
case it would be necessary to provide something else for dinner, as a 
brace of grouse alone would not go very far. 



A YEAIVS COOKEILY. 



311 



Sunday, August 30th. 



Breakfast. 


Dinner. 


Tea. 


Supper. 


Pickled Mackerel. 


Boiled Salmon. 


Brown and White 


Chicken or Grouse 


Eg?s in Brown 


Caper Sauce. 


Bread aud Butter. 


Salad. 


Butter. 


Eoast Ducks. 


Compote of Plums. 


Strawberry Cream. 


Vienna Bread. 


French Beans. 


Seed Cake. 


Lemon Cheese- 


Dry Toast. 


Potatoes. 




cakes. 


Brown and White 


Plum Pie. 




Cheese. 


Bread and Butter. 


Cheese. 






"Watercress. 








Porridge. 









Breakfast. — Pickled Mackerel (August 28tli) ; Eggs in Brown 
Butter (January 6tli) ; Vienna Bread (August 26tli) ; Porridge 
(January 25tli). 

Dinner. — Boiled Salmon (July 5tli) ; Caper Sauce (March loth) ; 
Eoast Ducks (July 26tli) ; French Beans (August 16th) ; Potatoes 
(April 12th) ; Plum Pie (August 7th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 

Tea. — Conipote (August 5th) ; Seed Cake (August 14th). 

Supper. — Chicken or Grouse Salad. — Cut the grouse into neat 
joints. Boil three or four eggs hard, and provide materials for a 
salad (whatever may be in season), maj^onnaise sauce, and one or two 
pickled gherkins. Prepare the salad, and dry it thoroughly (]\[arch 
13th), but do not dish it till a few minutes before it is to be served. 
Put a little of the shred salad on a dish, and toss it in a spoonful or two 
of the mayonnaise. Pile the inferior joints of the game on this, add 
more salad, and repeat until the ingredients are used. Pour mayon- 
naise over all, and garnish the salad with hard-boiled eggs cut into 
quarters, and gherkins cut into thin sHces, or anchovies filleted. If 
chervil or tarragon is to be had, a little may be chopped and thrown 
over the thick sauce at the last moment, or, if preferred, a spoonful of 
tarragon vinegar can be used in making the mayonnaise. Chicken 
Salad is made exactly in the same way. Chicken salad is exceedingly 
good made with celery instead of lettuce, or with a mixture of the 
two. Strawberry Cream (August 29th). 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. If it is preferred that the grouse should be roasted and served 
hot, proceed as follows. Roast Grouse. — Let the birds hang as long 
as possible. Pluck them, and handle them very lightly in doing so, 
draw them, and wipe them inside and out with a damp cloth, but do 
not wash them. Truss them firmly, put them down to a sharp clear 
fire, and baste them liberally all the time. Soak a slice of toast 
in the dripping-tin and serve them on this. Send brown gravy 
(October 18th) and bread sauce (October 18th) to table with them 
They will take about half an hour to roast. 

2. Pickle any remains of salmon there may be (May 30th). 



312 A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



3. Preserve the bones and remains of cliicken or grouse for making 
soup. 

4. Mayonnaise Sauce. — Take a round-bottomed bowl, not over 
large, put into it tlie yolk of an egg and beat it for two or three 
minutes, tlien drop pure salad oil into it, one drop at a time, and beat 
the sauce well between every addition till the sauce is thick and dark, 
and looks something like beeswax. Now put in a few drops of vinegar, 
then oil again, until as much sauce is made as is recjuired. Stir in 
more vinegar, a little at a time, to make the sauce taste pleasantly, 
and add salt, pepper, and a very small pinch of sugar. The sauce 
when finished, should be a firm creamy substance. A very good sauce 
may be made witli the yolk of one Qgg., a quarter of a pint of oil, and 
two table-spoonfuls of vinegar, but if this quantity would not be 
suflicient, a pint of oil with vinegar in proportion might be put with 
one Qgg. A few drops of lemon-juice would help to make it look 
creani}^, and a little tarragon vinegar would improve the taste. It 
may be noted that mayonnaise sauce will keep for a long time if it is 
put into a bottle, closely corked, and kept in a cool place. The secret 
of making mayonnaise sauce is to i)ut in the oil in drops only at the 
beginning, beating well between every addition till the mixture 
becomes thick, and also to beat the sauce one way. If it were stirred 
first one way and tlien another, it would curdle. It should be mixed 
in a cool place, and the oil should be cold, otherwise the sauce would 
not thicken. If, notwithstanding all precautions, the sauce should 
curdle, the addition of a raw egg-yolk or of a small lump of ice, or 
something that is cold, will remedy the mischief. Mayonnaise sauce 
is so delicious and so universally popular that it is worth making, even 
though it is a little troublesome. The reason why so many cooks fail 
in making it is that they cannot believe that it is necessary to attend 
to the small details mentioned above. This sauce is especially suited 
for chicken, game, and fish salads of all kinds, and for serving with 
cold fish. Another very superior sauce, Tartar Sauce, is made just 
in the same way, only it is indispensable that tarragon vinegar should 
be used for it, and one or two spoonfuls of chopped pickle of some 
kind (gherkins to be preferred) must be stirred in after it is made ; a 
spoonful of chopped chervil and tarragon should also be added after 
the sauce is made, but if they are not to be had, chopped parsley may 
be used instead. 

6. Make custard blancmange for dinner to-morrow (August Itli), 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



313 



August 3Ist. 



Breakfast. 


Lunclieon. 


Dinner. 


Bloaters on Toast. 


Pickled Salmon. 


Gravy Soup. 


Collared Sheep's Tongixes. 


Baked Custard Tart. 


Koast Shoulder of Mutton 


Vienna Bread. 




Mint Sauce. 


Dry Toast. 




Potatoes. 


Brown and Whit« Bread 




Vesetable Marrow. 


and Butter. 




Custard Blajicmange. 


Marmalade. 




Cheese. 


Bread and Milk. 







Marketing. 

For the Day.— A Shoulder of Mutton (not very fat) ; Potatoes ; Vegetable 

]Marrow ; iNIiut. 
For To-morrow.— A tin of potted Grouse ; a quart of any kind of red Plums 

for Porridge, and Fruit for the Rothe Grlitze. 

Breakfast. — Bloaters on Toast (March 24tli) ; Collared Sheep's 
Tongues, bought day before yesterday ; Vienna Bread (August 26th) ; 
Bread and YiiYk (January 25th). 

Luncheon. — Pickled Salmon (May 30th) ; Custard Tart (January 
19th). 

DiNNEPv. — Gravy Soup. — Follow the recipe given for guinea fowl 
soup (February 16th), using the chicken bones or meat bones instead 
of the bones and trimmings of game. Ptoast Shoulder of ]\lutton 
(December 16th) ; Mint Sauce (March 25th) ; Potatoes (April 12th) ; 
Vegetable Marrow (September 3rd) ; Custard Blancmange (August 
4th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Make a Bothe Grlitze mould for to-morrow (December 10th). 

2. Partially prepare the Plum Porridge for breakfast to-morrow. 
For this, put the jjlums into a ste^vpan, with half a pint of water, two 
ounces of sugar, and a small piece of cinnamon. Boil gently to a 
pulp, tJien rub the whole through a colander into a basin. So far the 
porridge can be prepared over night. In the morning mix about a 
pint, of cold milk with the pulp, add a little more sugar if the porridge 
is not sweet enough, and serve with bread as an accompaniment. All 
kinds of fresh summer fruit can be served in this way for brealvfast, 
and will be generally approved by the young folks. 



FRUITS SUITABLE FOR DESSERT IN AUGUST. 

Gooseberries, Currants (Pved, "White, and Black), Cherries, 
Strawberries, Raspberries, French Melons, Apricots (from France), 
Greengages, Jersey and Lisbon Grapes, English Hot-house Grapes, 
Nectarines, Mulberries, Peaches, Plums, West India Pine-apples, 
Pears, last year's Nuts. 



314 A YE Airs COOKERY. 



PICKLES. 

Indian Piclde : a very convenient Fickle for Family Use. — Take a 
quantity of any vegetables that can be procured. Cauliflowers, not 
too much grown, w^hite cabbage, young carrots, cucumbers, beetroot, 
French beans, &c., are suitable for this purpose. Prepare the vege- 
tables, by cutting away the outer leaves of the cauliflower and dividing 
it into small branches, cutting the cabbage into very thin shreds, 
stringing the beans, skinning the onions, slicing the beetroot, 
trimming and scraping the carrots. Make a brine strong enough to 
float an ^gg., throw the vegetables into it, and let them boil one 
minute ; drain them, and dry them perfectly by shaking a few at a 
time lightly in a soft cloth. Take as much vinegar as will entirely 
cover them, and boil it for five minutes with spices in the following 
proportion ; to two quarts of vinegar, one ounce of whole ginger, 
one ounce of long pepper, one ounce of black peppercorns, and t^yo 
cloves of garlic. Mix separately with a little cold vinegar in a basin 
an ounce of turmeric, and an ounce of flour of mustard, and stir this 
into the vinegar whilst it is boiling. Mix the vegetables thoroughly, 
and put them into an unglazed jar, and pour the vinegar, boiling, over 
them : it must entirely cover them. Cover closely, and keep in a 
cool place. Keep adding any ve^^etables that are in season, remem- 
bering always to boil them in brine for a minute and to dry them 
before putting them with the rest. Nasturtium seeds, radish 
pods, chilies, gherkins, and celery cut in lengths will be suitable 
additions. As the vinegar becomes absorbed more must be poured 
in, but it must be boiled and allowed to go cold before it is put with 
the pickle. The preparation can be used in about a fortnight, but it 
will improve with being kept. 

Fielded Onions. — Take the smallest onions that can be obtained. 
Those called Pteading onions are the best for this purpose. They 
must be quite ripe and dry, and are in the best condition for the 
purpose just after they have been harvested. Be careful not to use 
a steel knife in peelirig them, as that would spoil their colour. _ With 
a silver knife take oft the two outer skins, when the onion will look 
clear and white. Put them, as fast as they are ready, into perfectly 
dry pickling glasses, and cover them with cold vinegar. Tie them 
down closely and store ; they can be used in three wrecks, and will be 
found excellent. It is a good plan to stand near the fire when peeling 
onions, or if the eyes water very much the onions can be thrown 
into hot water. It is best not to do this if it can be helped. 

Fielded Red Cahhage. — This pickle may be made in August or 
September. Choose a cabbage "with a firm heart and of a deep red 
colour. Strip away the outer leaves and cut the cabbage into very thin 
shreds. Spread these on a dish, sprinkle salt well over them, and leave 
them for twenty-four liours. Squeeze the salt entirely from them. The 
more thoroughly this is done the better will be the colour of the cab- 
bage. Put them in a jar, cover with cold boiled vinegar, leave the 



A YEAIVS COOKERY. 



815 



pickle for twenty-four hours, then tie closely, and store in a cool place. 
This pickle should be quickly used. It deteriorates with keeping. 



Breakfast. 

Boiled Eggs. 

Potted Grouse. 

Buttered Toast. 

Dry Toast. 

Brown and WMte Bread 

and Butter. 
Plum Porridge. 



September 1st. 

Luncheon. 

Cold Shoulder of Mutton. 

Salad. 

Sago and Eice Pudding. 



Dinner. 



Baked Ilake. 
Neck of Veal, 

EoUed. 
Potatoes. 
CaiLliflower. 
Eotlie Griitze. 
Cheese. 



Boued anl 



Marketing. 
For the Day.— Materials for a Salad ; about tliree pounds of Hake, cut from tho 

middle of the fish ; four or five pounds of the Neck or Loin of Veal (February 

25th) ; Potatoes ; Cauliflower. 
For To-morrow.— Two Lambs' Sweetbreads ; half a pound of Bacon (January 

3rd) ; four ripe Tomatoes ; Mustard and Cress ; Muffins (January 29th). 

Breakfast. — Boiled Eggs (January 5th) ; Potted Grouse (January 
Ttli) ; Plum Porridge (August 31st). 

Luncheon. — Mutton, served yesterday; Salad (March 13th). 
Sago and Rice Puddinr/.—TakQ half sago and haK rice, and -pvo- 
ceed as for plain rice pudding (February 24th). 

Dinner. — Balked Hahe. — Wash the fish in salt and water, rub it 
over with vinegar, and let it lie for an hour, then roll it in a cloth, 
and leave it to dry. Take a thick slice of stale bread, and rub it 
through a wire sieve. Put two ounces of the sifted crumbs upon a 
plate, and mix with them a little pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg, a 
pinch of mixed herbs, and a pinch of grated lemon-rind. Brush the 
fish with beaten Q,gg, and sprinkle half the crumbs over it. Put it on 
a drainer in a deep baking-dish to raise it, pour round, but not over 
it a cupful of water and a wine-glassful of vinegar, and add a shalot 
finely minced, and a small carrot — or, if preferred, a few onions 
and potatoes — cut into slices. Place the dish in a moderate oven, 
and bake the fish for about an hour, basting it frequently with 
clarified dripping. When haK cooked, turn it and strew the re- 
mainder of the crumbs over it. When done enough, put it on a 
hot dish, garnish with lemon and parsley, and send anchovy sauce 
(July 17th) or caper sauce (March 19th) to table vdth it. A piece 
from the middle of a cod may be cooked in this way. Neck of Veal, 
Boned and Ptolled (^lay 28th) ; Potatoes (April 12th) ; Cauliflower 
(April 25th) ; Rothe Griitze (December 10th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Partially prepare the sweetbreads for to-morrow (October 22nd). 

2. If any fish is left let it be made into fish cakes (January 13th) 
or scalloped (January 7th) for brealdast to-morrow, and used instead 
of the bacon and tomatoes (July 12th), 



S16 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



September 2nd. 



Breakfast. 



Lambs' Sweetbreads. 

Bacon aud Tomatoes. 

MuiBns. 

Dry Toast. 

Brown aud Wliite Bread 

and Butter. 
Mustard aud Cress. 
Com-floiu- Milk. 



Luncheon. 

Minced Veal. 
Custard Sii)pets. 



Dinner, 



Boiled Brill. 

Sbiimp Sauce. 

Boiled Leg of Mutton. 

Caper Saiice. 

Young Carrots. 

Mashed Tua-nips. 

Potatoes. 

General Favourite Pudding. 

Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— A Brill (January 9th), Shrimps for Sauce; a pkmip Leg of 

Mntlon; Turnips; Carrots; Parsley; Potatoes. 
For To-morrow.— Gorgona Anchovies, if not in the house ; a pennyworth of 

Small Salad. 



Breakfast. — Lambs' Sweetb reads (October 22ncl) ; Bacon and 
Tomatoes (July 12tli) ; Muffins (Januaiy 30tli) ; Com-Hour Milk 
(June 19tli). 

Luncheon. — Minced Veal (May lltli) ; Custard Sippets (June 
lOth). 

Dinner. — Boiled Brill (January 9tli) ; Shrimp Sauce (January 
30tli) ; Boiled Leg of Mutton (February 23rd) ; Caper Sauce (]\f arch 
19th) ; Young Carrots (July Gth) ; Mashed Turnips (September 
30th); Potatoes (May 12th); General Favourite Pudding (JMay 17th); 
Cheese (June 8th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Preserve the liquor in which the leg of mutton is boiled. 

2. Fillet the anchovies, and prepare the small salad for breakfast 
to-morrow (January 18th). 

3. Put a cupful of hominy to soak in cold water all night 
(February 10th). 



September 3rd. 



Breakfast. 


Luncheon. 


Dinner. 


Potted Grouse. 


stewed Ox Kitlnoy. 


Hcrriugs, v?ith Mustard 


Anchovies aud Hard-boiled 


Plaiu Suet Pudding. 


Sauce. 


Eggs. 




Ciu-ried Mutton. 


Hot Buttered Toast. 




Boiled Rice. 


Dry Toast. 




Vegetable Marrow. 


Bvovni and White Bread 




Brown Bread Pudding. 


aud Butter. 




Cheese. 


Boiled Honiiuy. 







Marketing. 
For the Day.— A fresh Ox Kidney; half a pound of Suet; six or eight fresh 
Herrings (August 25th) j a Vegetable ]\Tarro\v. These vegetables may be kejD? 
far into the winter by simply hanging them in a dry place. 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



317 



For To-morroTV.— A two-pound tin of Spiced Beef ; order Rolls to be sent in the 
morninj^ from the baker's. If requested to do so, the baker will send hot rolls 
early in the morning for breakfast. 

Breakfast. — Potted Grouse (January 7tli) ; Anchovies and Hard- 
boiled Eggs (January 18th) ; Boiled Hominy (February 11th). 

Luncheon. — Stewed Ox Kidney (April 2nd); Plain Suet Pudding 
(May 13th). 

Dinner. — Herrings, with Mustard Sauce (September 15th) ; 
Curried Mutton (May 26tli) ; Boiled Bice (July 21st). VegetaUe 
Marrow, Boiled. — Pare the rind off thinly. If the marrow is 
laige, cut it in halves or quarters, and scoop out the seeds before 
boiling ; if it is small, this may be done after boiling. Put the 
vegetable into plenty of boiling water slightly salted ; bring it to the 
boiling point, skim the water, then put on the lid and boil till the 
marrow is tender. A small marrow will take from fifteen to twenty 
minutes, a large marrow from half to three-quarters of an hour. 
Have ready a slice of toast, dip it into the boiling water, and put 
it on a dish. Take up the marrovv^ with a slice, drain it, put it on 
the toast, and serve. Send melted butter (July 17th) to table as an 
accompaniment. Brown Bread Pudding (July 20th) ; Cheese (June 
8th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Preserve any hominy that may be left ; it can be fried for 
breakfast to-morrow. 

2. Be sure to boil the mutton liquor. 



September 4th, 



Breakfast. 



Savoury Omelette. 

Spiced Beef. 

Hot Rolls. 

Dry Toast. 

Brown and White Bread 

and Butter. 
Fried Hominy. 



Luncheon. 

Lamb's Fry. 

Jam and Bread, with Milk. 



Dinner. 

Haddock, Stuffed 

Baked. 
Roast Lamb. 
Tomato Sauce. 
Potatoes. 

Viennoise Pudding. 
Cheese. 



and 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— A Lamb's Fit ; a good-sized Haddock. Haddock is an excellent 
fish, its llesh being firm,, delicate, and rich. It is at its best from August to 
December. The larger fish are to be preferred. The haddock has on it two 
black spots, one on each side, which are said to be the marks left by St. 
Peters finger and thumb when he took the tribute-money out of its mouth. 
Its freshness is determined by the rules which hold good with other fish 
(January 3rd). xV quarter of a pound of Suet ; a Leg of Lamb (April 11th) ; 
half a dozen ripe Tomatoes ; a pennyworth of Yeast. 

For To-morrow.— Small Soles (" slips") for breakfast (January 3rd). 

Breakfast. — Savoury Omelette. — This is a very good breakfast 
dish, and easily made whenever the process is understood. It i.' 



318 A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



important to keep a pan for omelettes only, which pan should never 
be washed, but should be well wiped with a clean cloth each time it is 
used. Take chopped parsley to fill a tea-spoon, and three eggs. Beat 
the eggs for two seconds, and mix with theni the parsley and a little 
pepper and salt. Hub the omelette-pan with a shalot, then melt an 
ounce of butter in it over a bright clear fire. Pour the eggs upon the 
hot butter, stir them quickly with a wooden spoon, and shake the 
Dan to keep the eggs from sticking. As soon as the mixture begins 
to thicken, raise the handle of the pan, and let the omelette remain at 
the opposite side till it is brown. Turn it over quickly, and put it on 
a hot dish. The outside should be of a golden colour, and the inside 
quite soft. Serve immediately. Spiced Beef, bought yesterday. Hot 
Rolls are sent in hot from the baker's. They need only to be split 
open, buttered, put together again, then placed on a hot dish ano' 
covered with a hot napkin. Fried Hominy (February 12th). 

Luncheon.— Lamb's Fry (May IGtli) j Jam and Bread, with Milk 
(February 23rd). 

Dinner.— i/afZt/o(^^, Stntfed and BaJced.—Moke a little good 
forcemeat with a quarter of a pound of bread-crumbs, a quarter of 
a pound of chopped suet, a little pepper and salt, a table-spoonful of 
chopped parsley, and a dessert -spoonful of mixed herbs chopped 
small. Bind together with a beaten egg or with milk. _ Empty and 
clean the haddock, wash it, and dry it thoroughly. Fill it with the 
forcemeat, and sew it up. Put it into a greased dripping-tin nearly 
its own size, dredge flour upon it, and place little pieces of butter or 
clarified dripping here and there upon it ; put it into a moderate 
Dven and bake it, basting it frequently till done enough. It will take 
from half to three-quarters of an hour, according to size. Serve it on 
a hot dish without sauce, if liked, or with anchovy sauce (July 17th) 
or brown butter sauce (February 12th). Roast Lamb (March 4th) ; 
Tomato Sauce (July 15th) ; Potatoes (April 12th) ; Viennoise Pudding 
(July 6th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. If any haddock is left, free it from skin and bones, tear it into 
flakes, put it into a pie-dish, and moisten it with sauce or _ melted 
butter. (3over it thickly with bread-crumbs, place little pieces of 
butter here and there upon it. To-morrow morning bake it in a 
moderate oven till the surface is browned. Serve for breakfast pn the 
dish in which it was baked ; send melted butter to table mth it, and 
serve walnut pickle as an accompaniment. 

2. Pastry is to be made to-day (x\pril 17th) : Plum Pie (August 
7th), Treacle Tart (August 7th); also Sally Lunns (August 26th) 
and Plain Currant Cake (June 26th). 

3. Put a cupful of haricot beans to soak all night in cold water. 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



September 5th. 



319 



Breakfast. 

Baked Slips. 

Haddock Pie. 

Sally Limns. 

Dry Toast. 

Brown and White Bread 

and Batter. 
Milk Poi-ridge. 



Luncheon, 



Cold Lamb. 
Salad. 
Treacle Tart. 



Dinner. 

Soup for the Shah. 

Beef OKves. 

Potatoes. 

Haricot Beans. 

Boiled Plum Pudding (mads 

of fresh fruit). 
Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— Materials for a Salad (]\Iarch 13th) ; a good-sized Vegetable 
Marrow ; about two pounds of tender Steak (January 1st) ; two or three slices 
of Bacon ; six ounces or more of Beef Suet for the boiled pudding ; a pound 
and a half of Plums ; Parsley ; Potatoes. 

For To-morrow.— A pair of plmnp young Fowls (June 29th) ; two additional sets 
of Giblets, if they can be procured; it is not likely that these can be bought 
on Monday when they are to be used; half a pound of Bacon; a moderate- 
sized fresh Turbot (June 6th) ; picked Shrimps for sauce ; a dozen fresh 
Herrings (August 25th) ; Potatoes for dinner and for a Salad ; Vegetable 
Marrow ; Cocoa-nut or desiccated Cocoa-nut ; a pound of Plums for porridge ; 
Sardines ; a sour Apple and Gherkins wanted for the Russian Salad ; a Shoulder 
of Mutton for Monday. If the weather is hot this purchase should be deferred. 

Beeakfast. — Baked Slips (January 7tli) ; Haddock Pie (Note 1, 
September 4th) ; Sally Lunns (June 4th) ; Milk Porridge (June 13th). 

Luncheon. — Lamb, served yesterday; Salad (March 13th); 
Treacle Tart (August 7th). 

DiNNEE. — Soup for the Shah, made of the liquor the leg of mutton 
was boiled in (September 17th). Beef Olives. — Divide the steak into 
thin slices, about four inches long and three wide ; put a tea-spoonful 
of forcemeat in the middle of each piece, roll it, and tie it securely 
with twine. Put a little butter in a stewpan, and fry the olives, turn- 
ing them about, till they are equally browned all over. Pour upon 
them enough stock or water to make gravy, cover the pan, and stew 
very gently for two hours. Pour off the gravy, thicken it with brown 
thickening (January 6th), and add a wine-glassful of claret or a 
little ketchup, if liked, and let it boil up again. Ptemove the twine, 
put the rolls in the centre of a hot dish, pour the gravy over them, 
place the boiled haricot beans round (June 20th), and serve very hot. 
If preferred, a large cauliflower can be boiled separately, and sprigs 
of the same can be placed round the meat instead of the beans. The 
forcemeat can be made with two ounces of bread-crumbs, two ounces 
of chopped suet, a dessert-spoonful of chopped parsley, a small tea- 
spoonful of mixed marjoram and thyme, and a little pepper and salt. 
Boiled Plum Pudding (made of fresh fruit, July 19th) : Cheese (June 
6th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Pickle the herrings bought this morning (August 20th). 

2. Make the plum porridge for breakfast (August 31st). 



320 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



3. Make a Stone Cream for supper on Sunday night (July 1st), 
riuck and draw the fowls, to be ready for dinner ; trim and boil 
all the git)iets (February 1st) ; unless this is done they will not 
keep until Monday, when they are to be made into soup. When 
a fowl is drawn, one should be able to put the fingers right through 
the body of the bird. Preserve and dry the feathers (February 28th). 

4. iiake a quarter of a pint of mayonnaise for the Russian salad 
(Angust 30th). 



Sunday, September 6th, 



Breakfast. 


Dinner. 


Tea. 


1 Supper. 


Pickled Hen-iui?s. 


Boiled Tnrbot. 


Brown and White 


, Russian Salad. 


Buttered Eggs. 


Shrimp Sauce. 


Bread and Butter. 


Stone Cream. 


Sally Luims. 


Fowl, with Golden 


Gooseberry Jam. 


Cheese. 


Dry Toast. 


Eain. 


Plain Cmi-ant Cake. 


1 


Brown and White 


Bacon Eolls. 






Bread and Butter. 


Potatoes. 




• 


Plum Poi-ridge. 


Vegetable Marrow. 
Cocoa-mat Pudding. 




1 




Cheese. 




I 



Breakfast. — Buttered Eggs (January 16th); Pickled Herrings 
(z\ugust 20th); Sally Lunns (June 4th); Plum Porridge (August 
31st). 

Dinner. — Boiled Turbot (June 7th) ; Shrimp Sauce (January 
30th). Boiled Foivis, laith Golden Bain. — Truss the fowls firmly 
for boiling. Put them breast downwards into fast-boiling water, 
which has in it a carrot, an onion, and a bunch of herbi3. Boil 
for one minute, then draw the saucepan back and simmer very 
gently for about three-quarters _ of an hour, or for an hour if the 
birds are large. In this particular instance the birds are to be 
covered entirely with sauce, therefore it does not signify very 
much whether or not they are very white when boiled; otherwise 
they would look a better colour if they were wrapped in kitchen 
paper, thickly buttered, whilst boiling. It is evident, however, 
th::t. the liquor could be more satisfactorily used if the paper were 
omitted. To mahe the Sauce. — Boil two eggs for ten minutes, let 
them go cold, then throw the white part into cold water to preserve 
the colour, and leave the yolks untouched. Melt an ounce of butter 
in a ste^vpan, stir in, off* the fire, an ounce of flour, and beat the 
mixture till smooth with the baclc of a wooden spoon. Add half a 
pint of milk, and stir the sauce over the fire till it thickens ; then add 
a gill of cream, and the white of egg cut into dice. Let the sauce 
boil again, and be careful not to stir it, so that the egg white may not 
be crushed or broken. Take up the fowls, drain them well, and put the 
sauce upon them. Do this carefully with a spoon, so as to cover them 
in every part ; rub the yolks of the eggs through a wire sieve upon the 
breasts of the birds to make the golden rain, and serve. Bacon Polls 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



321 



(July 19th) ; Potatoes (May 6tli) ; Vegetable Marrow (Septembei 
3rd) ; Cocoa-nut Pudding (August 8tli) ; Cheese (June 8th). 

Tea.— Plain Currant Cake (June 2Gth). 

buppER. — Kussian Salad (April 5th) ; Stone Cream (July Ist). 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. The Russian salad can be made with a little of the flesh of the 
boiled chicken, sardines, and a slice of bacon instead of ham. 

2. If the legs of the chicken are not used, devil them for breakfast 
to-morrow ; they will have to be x^repared over night (January 14th). 

3. Carefully preserve the chicken bones ; they will greatly improve 
tlie stock. 



September 7th. 



Breakfast. 

Sardines. 

Devilled Drumsticks. 

Sally Limns. 

Dry Toast. 

Brown and WMte Bread and 

Butter. 
Milk Toast. 



Luncheon. 

Chicken Kromeskies ; 

Croquettes, made 

Spiced Beef. 
Baked Batter Pudding. 



I Dinner. 

or Giblet Soup. 
of Eoast Shoulder of Mutton. 
I Mint Sauce. 

Potatoes. 
! Beans. 

I Brown Bread Pudding. 
Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— Mint ; Potatoes ; Beans. 

For To-morrow.— Rolls for breakfast (September 3rd); half a pint of fiiU-grown 
JMushrooms ; a Saddle of Mutton. If the weather be favourable, this joint 
may be hung for nearly a fortnight, and cooked on Sunday week. It should, 
however, be looked at every day, and cooked earUer if it wiU not keep. 

Bp.eakfast. — Sardines {see Marketing, January 12th) ; Devilled 
Drumsticks (January 14th); Sally Limns (June 4th); Milk Toast 
(June 17th). 

Luncheon. — Chicken Kromeskies (July 29th) or Croquettes {see 
Pdssoles, January 6th) ; Baked Batter Pudding (February 5th). 

DiNNEfi. — Giblet Soup (February 1st) ; Boast Slioulder of Mutton 
(December 16th); Mint Sauce (March 25th); Potatoes (May 4th); 
Beans (August 16th) ; Brown Bread Pudding (July 2()th) ; Cheese 
(June 8th). 



Things that must not be Forgotten, 

1. Put a cupful of green lentils to soak all night in cold water. 

2. Partially prepare the rice milk for breakfast (see Note 3, June 
17th). 

3. As soon as the roast mutton leaves the table i)ut it on a clean 
dish, and preserve any gravy there may be. 



322 



A YEARS COOKERY. 



September 8th. 



Breakfast. 



Mtislu'ooms and Bacon. 

Devilled Eggs. 

Hot Eolls. 

Dry Toast. 

Browu and Wliite Bread and 

Butter. 
Rice Milk. 



Luncheon. 

Cold Mutton. 

Salad. 

Hasty Pudding. 



Dinner. 

Boiled Hake. 
Dutch Sauce. 
Rolled Ribs of Beef. 

Lentils. 
Potatoes. 
Town Pudding. 
Clieese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— INIaterials for a Salad (March 13th) ; about three poimds of Hake 
(Augiist 7th) ; one or two Ribs of Beef. The butcher should be asked to bone 
and roll the joint, and fasten it firmly. The bones should of course be sent 
with the meat, and they may be stewed for stock. Two pounds of Apples for 
Town pudding. 

For To-morrow — A dozen fresh Herrings (August 25th) ; half soft and half 
hard roes. Watercress ; IMuffins (January 29th) ; a small bottle of pre- 
served Tomatoes ; a pint of Blackberries, and two or three Apples. 

Breakfast. — Mushrooms and Bacon. — Cleanse the musliiooma 
thorouglily. Fry the bacon very gently. When it is almost done enough 
put in the mushrooms, and fry them also. Lift the bacon on a hot 
dish as soon as it is sufficiently cooked. Sprinkle pepper and salt on 
the mushrooms^ and place them in the centre of the dish. Serve 
very hot. Devilled Eggs (February 27th) ; Rice Milk (June 18th). 

Luncheon.— Salad (March 13th) ; Hasty Pudding (March 30th). 

Dinner. — Boiled Hake {ste Boiled Salmon, July 5th) ; Dutch 
Sauce (May 14th). Boiled hake is slightly insipid, therefore it 
requires a piquant sauce to be served with it. Rolled Ribs of Beef 
(March 4th) ; Lentils (March 2nd) ; Potatoes (May 6th) ; Town 
Pudding (December 3rd) ; Cheese (June 8th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Make a corn -flour blancmange for luncheon to-morro w( June 15th). 

2. Boil the blackberries and apples together, ^\dth a little sugar, 
and make a hydropathic pudding for dinner to-morrow (June IGth). 

3. Pickle the herrings for breakfast to-morrow (August 20th). 



September 9th. 



Breakfast. 


Luncheon. 


Dinner. 


Pickled Herrings. 


Minced Mntton, with 


Potato Puree. 


Watercress. 


Poached Eggs. 


Cold Beef. 


Muffins 


Corn-flour Blaucmaugo. 


Salad. 


Dry Toast. 


Lemon Syrup. 


Potatoes. 


Brown and White Bread and 




Hvdropatliic Blackberry 


Butter. 




Pudding. 


Honey. 




Clieese. 


Porridge. 







Marketing. 

For the Day.— Materials for a Salad ; Potatoes. 

For To-morrow.— A moderate-sized fresh Haddock ; a pound of Plains ; speak 
for a Lamb's Fry to-morrow. 



A YEAR'S COOKER v. 



323 



Breakfast. — Pickled Herrings (August 20tli) ; Muffins (January 
30th) ; Porridge (January 25tli). 

Luncheon. — Minced Mutton (January 20tli) ; Corn-flour Blanc- 
mange (June 15tli) ; Lemon Syrup (March 19th). 

Dinner. — Potato Puree (January 26th) ; Beef served yesterday ; 
Salad (March IStli) ; Potatoes (May 12th) ; Hydropathic Pudding 
(June 16th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Prepare the haddock for breakfast to-morrow : that is, clean 
it, cut off the head, and remove the skin, rub it all over with salt, 
and hang it in an airy place. The cook must not imagine that 
the skin can be left on the fish. 

2. j\Iake the plums into a compote for luncheon to-morrow 
(August 5th). 

3. Pot any remains of cold beef there may be (January 23rd). 



September lOth, 



Breakfast. 


Luncheon. 


Dinner. 


Rizzared Haddock. 


Lamb's Fry. 


Boiled Brill. 


Potted Beef. 


Comi^ote of Plums. 


Anchovy fcaiice. 


Hot Buttered Toa.st. 




Loin of Lamb, Braised. 


Dry Toast. 




Baked Tomatoes. 


Browu and White Bread and 




Potatoes. 


Butter. 




Beans. 


Bread and Milk. 




Cottage Plum Pudding. 
Cheese. 



Marketing. 
For the Day.— A Lamb's Fry ordered yesterday ; a moderate-sized Brill 

(.January yth and January 3rd) ; a Loin of Lamb (May 22nd) ; Tomatoes ; 

Potatoes ; French Beans ; six ounces of Beef Suet. 
For To-morrow.— Half a pound of Bacon in rashers (January 3rd) ; Mustard 

and Cress. 

Breakfast. — Rizzared Raddock — Rub the haddock all over with 
oil or dissolved butter, dredge flour upon it, and broil it over a clear 
fire. Put a little butter upon it, and serve very hot. Potted Beef 
(January 23rd) ; Bread and Milk (January 25th). 

Luncheon.— Lamb's Fry (May 16th) ; Compote of Plums (August 
5th). 

Dinner —Boiled Brill (January 9th) ; Anchovy Sauce (July 17th) ; 
Loin of Lamb Braised (May 22nd) ; Baked Tomatoes (July 7th) ; 
Potatoes (April 7th) ; Beans (August 16th) ; Cottage Plum Pudding 
(June 6th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. If any fish is left, make it into hsh cakes for breakfast to- 
morrow (January 13th). 

2. If any of the compote remain, put it at once away. It will 
keep for two or three days. 



324 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



September llth 



Breakfast. 



Eisli Cakes. 
Toasted Bacon. 
Hot Buttered Toast. 
Dry Toast. 
Mustard and Cress. 
Bro^vn and Wliite Bread and 

Butter. 
Corn-flour Milk. 



Luncheon. 

Beef Collops. 

Slices of Plum Pudding, 
Warmed. 



Dinner. 



stewed Eels. 
Rabbit Pie. 
Potatoes. 
Cabbage. 

Macaroni Pudding. 
Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— A pound and a half of Buttock Steak (January 1st) ; a pound and 
a half of Eels (January 24tli) ; a plump young Rabbit (January 2ith) ; three- 
quarters of a pound of lean Veal ; a quarter of a pound of mild Bacon cut 
into thin slices ; Potatoes ; Cabbage, 

For To-morrow.— A Bath Chap : that is, a pig's cheek cured like bacon ; a 
pound of Plums ; a plump Chicken, or two Chickeus if one will not be suf- 
ficient ; Apples for pies. 

Breakfast. — Fish Cakes (January 13th) ; Toasted Bacon (January 
19th); Corn-flour Milk (June 19th). 

Luncheon. — Scotch Collops (January 9th) ; Cold Pudding warmed 
up (March 6th). 

Dinner. — Stewed Eels (January 24th). Rabbit Pie. — Cut the 
rabbit into small neat pieces, keep out the breast bone and bone 
the legs. Cut the veal also into thin pieces two inches square, and 
divide the bacon into strips. Scald and scrape the bacon-rind, and 
put it into a saucepan wdth the bones and breast of the rabbit. 
Cover with cold w^ater, and add salt, pepper, an onion, and half a 
blade of mace. Simmer gently for gravy. Put the veal, rabbit, apd 
slices of ijacon in layers into a pie-dish, and season 'each layer with 
pepper, salt, grated nutmeg, and grated lemon-rind. The dish must 
not be over full, or the rabbit will be dry. Half a small lemon 
grated and an eighth part of a nutmeg grated will be suflicient for 
this quantity. Pour in half a pint of the stock, then line the edges 
with pastry, and cover with pastry according to the directions given 
for making beef-steak pie (IMarch 26th). Bake in a WTll-heated oven 
for an hour and a half or two hours. As soon, as the pastry has 
risen and is set, lay a sheet of paper over it, to prevent its 
acquiring too much colour. Rough puff paste (May 29th) would be 
excellent for this x)ie, or, if preferred, short crust (June 19tl\) might 
be made instead. In winter, when veal is expensive, two young 
rabbits might be used instead of one rabbit and the veal cutlet. 
Strain the gravy, and before serving the pie pour this in by 
means of a funnel placed in the hole of the crust. Babbit pie is 
very good eaten cold. Potatoes (May 6tli) ; Cabbage (June 4th) ; 
:Macaroni Pudding (March 27th) ; Cheese (June Sth). 

Things that must not ba Forgotten. 
1. Soak the Bath chap and boil it for breakfast to-morrow (Note 1, 
August 25th). 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



325 



2. Pastry is to be made to-day (April iVtli) : Two apple pies 
(August 7th) and rabbit pie \ also light buns, quickly made (August 
14th) ; scones, if there is any sour milk (August 26th), or teacakes 
(August 2Gth), and soda cake (August 14th). 

3. Make plum porridge for breakfast to-morrow (August 31st), 

4. Pluck the cliicken and hang it in a cool place. Dry the feathers 
(Note 1, February 28th). 



September 12th, 



Breakfast. 


Luncheon. 


Dinner. 


Egars on the Dish. 


Eabbit Gateau. 


Croute au Pot. 


Bath Chap. 


Suet Divrn Idling, with Jain. 


Stewed Chicken, with 


Teacakes. 




Tomatoes and Mush- 


Dry Toast. 




rooms. 


Brown and White Bread 




Potato Snow. 


and Butter. 




Cabbage. 


Pliun Poi-ridge. 




Apple Pie. 
Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— Half a pound of Suet; three or four Tomatoes ; half a poirnd of 

?>Iushrooius ; Potatoes ; Cabbage ; Parsley. 
For To-morrow.— A tin of I'otted Pheasant ; a pair of tliick Soles (January 3rd) ; 

Fore-Quarter of Lamb (April 11th) ; Mint ; Vegetable Marrow ; Potatoes ; 

Apples, for a compote; materials for a Salad (March 13th); Tomatoes for 

breakfast on Monday. 



Breakfast. — Eggs on the Dish (December 7th); Bath Chap 
(August 25th); Teacakes (February 14th); Plum Porridge (August 3Lst). 

Luncheon. — Eabbit Gateau, made of the remnants of the rabbit 
pie (July 9th). If there is enough of it, the pie will be excellent 
served cold. Suet Dumpling, with Jam (May 1.3th). 

Dinner. — Croilte au Pot (May 25th). Stewed Chicl:en, iviih 
Tomatoes and. Mushrooms. — Draw the chicken, and cut it into neat 
piecesv Take a good-sized saucepan and melt a good slice of sweet 
butter in it. Throw in an onion finely minced and the red part 
of a carrot scraped, and stir over the fire for three minutes. Put in 
the pieces of chicken, season them with salt and pepper, and fry 
them in the butter, moving them occasionally to keep them from 
sticking to the pan. When lightly browned pour upon them a pint 
and a half of stock (made from the rabbit bones), add four moderate- 
sized tomatoes cut into halves, and a table-spoonful of corn-floui* 
mixed to a smooth paste with a little cold water. Stir the sauce till 
it boils, draw it back, and let it simmer gently for half an hour. 
Clean the mushrooms and cut them into thin slices ; add a table- 
spoonful of coarsely chopped parsley, and simmer again for a quarter 
of an hour. Put the pieces of chicJcen on a hot dish, pour the sauce 
over, garnish with fried bread, and serve. Potato Snow (April 7th); 
Cabbage (June 4th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 



326 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



Things that must not bo Forgotten. 

1. Preserve one musliroom from those that are stewed with the 
chicken for the sole an gratin to-morrow. 

2. Soak a large cni»fnl of hominy in cold water all night. 

3. 'Make a compote of apples for snpper to-morrow night (August 
5th). Apples should be pared, cut into halves, and cored, before 
being stewed in the syrup. A little lemon-juice may be put with 
them. 

Sunday, September 13th. 



Breakfast. 

Potted Pheasant. 
Batli Cliap. 
Teacakes. 
Dry Toast. 
Brown and Wliice 
Bread and Butter. 
Boiled Hominy. 



Dinner. 

Sole an Gratin. 
Quarter of Lamb. 
Mint Sauce. 
Vegetable Man'ow. 
Potatoes. 
Hayrick Pudding. 
Cheese. 



Tea. 

•Brown and White 
Bread and Butter. 
Cold Teacakes. 
Sti-awhei-ry Jam. 
Soda Cake. 



Supper. 

Cold Lamb. 

Salad. 

Compote of Apples. 

Cheese. 



Breakfast. — Potted Pheasant (]\Iarketing, see Remarks on Potted 
Grouse, January 7th) ; Bath Chap (August 25th) ; Teacakes (February 
14th) ; Boiled Hominy (February 11th). 

Dinner. — Sole au Gratin (May 3rd) ; Roast Quarter of Lamb 
(April 12th) ; Mint Sauce (March 25tli), Vegetable Marrow (Sep- 
tember 3rd) ; Potatoes (May 12th) ; Hayrick Puddings (March 19th) ; 
Cheese (June 8tli). 

Tea.— Soda Cake (August 14th). 

Supper. — Salad (March 13th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Preserve any hominy that may be left ; it can be fried for 
breakfast to-morrow. 

2. Cold P(jtatoes left to-day may be used for the salad to-morrow. 



September 14th, 



Breakfast. 




Luncheon. 


Dinner. 


Boiled Eggs. 




Cold Lamb. 


Tomato Purde. 


Potted Pheasant. 




Mint Sance. 


Broiled Steak k la Bdar- 


Teacakes. 




Potato Salad. 


naise. 


Dry Toast. 




Macaroni and Bacon. 


Fried Potatoes 


Brown and White 


Bread 




Lfeche Crfeme. 


and Butter. 






Cheese. 


Marmalade. 








Fried Hominy. 









Marketing. 
For the Day.— Half a pound of INlacaroni (January 1st) ; half a dozen ripe 

Tomatoes ; a slice of Rump Steak, not less than an inch thick (January 22nd) ; 

Potatoes ; half a pound of ratafias. 
Foi* To-morrow.— Four plump Sheep's Kidneys; half a pound of Bacon in 

rashers (January 3rd) ; Mustard and Cresa. 



A YKAIVS COOKERY. 



327 



Breakfast. — Boiled Eggs (January 5tli) ; Potted Pheasant {see 
Potted Grouse, January 7th) ; Teacakes (February 14th) ; Fried 
Hominy (Feluaiary 12th). 

LuNcnEON. — Lamb and Mint Sauce served yesterday; Potato 
Salad (April 12th) ; Macaroni and Bacon ; the remains of the Bath 
Chap may be used for this (January 27th). 

Dinner.— Tomato Pur^e (March 11th); Broiled Steak h. la 
B^arnaise (January 22nd) ; Fried Potatoes (February 2ud) ; Leche 
Creme (May 7th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Carefully preserve any little pieces of steak that may be left. 

2. If preferred, Swiss Role can be substituted for ratafins in the 
pudding. 



September !5th. 



Breakfast. 


Luncheon. 


Dinner. 


Fried Kidneys and Bacon. 


Shepherd's Pie. 


Herrings, with Mustard 


Hot Buttered Toast. 


Gingerbread Pudding. 


Sauce. 


Dry Toast. 




Boiled Leg of Mutton. 


Brown and Wliite Bread 




Caper Sauce. 


and Butter. 




Carrots. 


Mustard and Cress. 




Mashed Turnips. 


]\Iilk Porridge. 




Potatoes. 

Newmarket Pudding. 
Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— Fresh Herrings (August 25th) : choose fish with soft roes ; allow 

one fish for each person, and one over. A plump, well-kept Leg of Mutton 

(January 8th) ; Potatoes; Carrots; Turnips. 
For To-morrow.— Bloaters : one for two persons will probably be enough ; a 

tin of Collared Tongue (January 2nd); Rolls for breakfast (September 3rd); 

Sea Biscuits, if not in the house ; order half an Ox Kidney to be sent in the 

morning. 

Breakfast. — Fried Kidneys and Bacon (January 2nd) ; Milk 
Porridge (June 13th). 

Luncheon. — Shepherd's Pie, made of the remnants of broiled 
steak (January 12th) ; Gingerbread Pudding (May 2()th). 

Dinner. — Herrincfs, with Mnstard Sauce. — Scale and empty the 
herrings, cut off their heads and tails and open them, take_ out the 
backbone carefully, and lay them flat ; pepper and salt the inside of 
the fish, and draw them through a little salad oil that has been poured 
into a dish. Let them he for an hour, then put on a greased gridiron, 
and broil them over a gentle but clear fire till they are done enough, 
turning them frequently. They will take about a quarter of an hour. 
Fry the roes separately in a little fat. Put the herrings on a dish with 
the fried roes, squeeze a little lemon-juice over them, and serve them 
very hot, with a little mustard sauce (July 8th) in a tureen. Boiled 



328 



A YEARS COOKERY. 



Leg of ]\rntton (KeT)rnary 23i-d) ; Caper Sauce (^larcli 19th) ; Carrots 
(July 6t]i) ; jMashed Turnips (September SOtli) ; Newmarket Pud- 
ding (June 2nd) ; Cheese (June 8th). 



Things that must not be Forgotten. - 

1. Keep the bloaters apart from all other food. 

2. Make the Apple ALould for dinner to-morrow. Put an ounce of 
gelatine to soak in a cupful of water. Pare, core, and slice two 
pounds of good baking-apples, put them into a stewpan with water to 
cover them, and let them simmer gently till soft. Stir in the soaked 
gelatine till dissolved, and add sugar to taste, with a little lemon-juice, 
if liked. Beat the mixture till smooth, put it into a damp mould, and 
set it in a cool place. Serve with cream or custard. 

3. Preserve the liquor that the leg of mutton was boiled in. 



September 16th. 



Breakfast. 



Bloaters on Toast. 

Collared Tongue. 

Hot Rolls. 

Dry Toast. 

Brown and Wliite Bread 

and Bntter. 
Mustard and Cress. 
Biscuits and Milk. 



Luncheon. 

Minced Mutton. 
Slices of Ging-erbread Pud- 
ding, Toasted. 



Dinner. 



Kidney Soup. 
CuiTied Mutton. 
Boiled Rice. 
Kidney Beans. 
Apple Mould. 
Custard. 
Choose. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— Half an Ox Kidney, ordered yesterday ; Beans ; a dozen fresh 

Herrings with soft roes (August 25tli) ; Parsley. 
For To-morrow.— Muffins ; Watercress. 

Breakfast. — Bloaters on Toast (March 24th) ; Collared Tongue 
{see Marketing, January 2nd) ; Hot PvoUs (September 4th) ; Biscuits 
and Milk (June 14th). 

Luncheon.— Minced Mutton (January 20th). Neat slices can be 
cut from the cold boiled leg of mutton and curried for dinner. The 
unsightly broken pieces that remain can be minced for luncheon. 
The bone should of course be broken up and stewed for stock 
(February 13th). Slices of Gingerbread Pudding, Toasted {see Remains 
of Pudding, Toasted, ]\Iarch Oth). 

Dinner. — Kidney Soup (February 27th) ; Curried Mutton (May 
26th) ; Boiled Pvice (July 21st) ; Kidney Beans (August 16th) ; Apple 
Mould (September 15th) ; Custard (August 10th); Cheese (June 8th). 



I 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 
1. Pickle the fresh herrings as soon as possible after they come in 
(August 20th). 



A YEA IIS COOKERY. 



329 



2. Partially prepare tlie rice and barley porridge for breakfast 
(Note 6, June 15tli). 

3. Pot a cupful of haricot beans to soak all nlglit in cold water. 

4. 8tew the bones of the leg of mutton in the liquor in \\hich it 
was boiled ; the stock can be used for the soup to-morrow. 



September 17th. 



Breakfast. 



Pickled Herring. 

Collared Tongue. 

Muffins. 

Dry Toast. 

Brown and Wliite Bread 

and Butter. 
Watercress. 
Eice and Barley Porridge. 



Luncheon. 

Boef Stew, Economical. 
Boiled Rice. 



Dinner. 

Soup for tlie Shah. 
Roast Sirloin of Beef. 
Haricot Beans. 
Potatoes. 

Devonshire Junket. 
Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— Two pounds of lean Steak {see Marketing, January 1st) ; three 
or four Mushrooms ; a large Vegetable Marrow ; a Sirloin of Beef, weighing 
about eight pounds : choose meat with a good undercut (January 10th) ; 
Potatoes ; a small bottle of pi-epared Rennet : tJiis can be bought of any 
chemist. 

For To-morrow.— A Canadian Ham, sugar cured. These hams, which can be 
bought at a very cheap rate (6d. per pound), are excellent for every day uss, 
though of course they are not so delicious as those cured at honie, A plump 
young Fowl, or two Fowls if required; order Rolls for breakfast (September 
4th). 

Breakfast.— Pickled Herrings (August 20th) ; Collared Tongue 
(January 2nd) ; Muffins (January 30th) ; llice and Barley Porridge 
(June 15tli). 

Luncheon. — Beef Stew, Economical (March 21st) ; Boiled Rice 
(February 3rd). 

Dinner. — Soiijy for the Shah. — Pare, core, and quarter the vege- 
table marrow, put it into a stewjjan with as much stock as will cover 
it, and add an onion sliced, a small piece of butter, and a little pepper 
and salt. Let it simmer gently till quite soft, then rub it through u 
sieve, and mix with the pur6e a pint of stock, or a little more if it is 
very thick : this will depend on the size of the marrow ; throw a lump 
of sugar into it, and make it very hot. Have ready a pint of boiling 
milk, and add this to the soup at the last moment. If it is liked, in 
order to enrich the soup, the yolk of an egg may be put into the 
tureen and sliglitly beaten, a spoonful of soup may then be stirred in 
quickly, and the rest added gradually. Soup for the Shah derives its 
name from the fact that the vegetable marrow is believed to have 
been brought originally from Persia. When they are in season, a 
table-spoonful of green peas may be boiled separately, and thrown 
into the soup at the last moment. These Avill represent the jewels 
Orientals delight in. Roast Sirloin of Beef (March 4th) ; Haricot Beans 



330 



A YEARS COOKERY. 



(June 20th) ; Potatoes (INIay 6th). Devonshire Junket. — Heat a quart 
of milk till it is lukewarm. Meanwhile, put half a tea-spoonful of 
powdered cinnamon and a tal^le-spoonful of sugar into a cup, pour on 
a wine-glassful of Ijrandy, and stir till the sugar is dissolved. Add 
this to the milk, put it into the dish in which it is to be served, and 
stir in a table-spoonful of the prepared rennet. In three or four hours 
it will be firm and ready to be served. If it can be procured, a little 
clotted cream should be spread on the top of the junket, and wJiite 
sugar sifted over that. Sometimes fresh fruit is eaten with this dish. 
Cheese (June 8th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Cut the flap off the sirloin of beef, and sprinkle salt over it if 
the weather be warm. 

2. Turn the herrings in the vinegar, and put them in a cool place. 

3. Cut a good-sized piece from the Canadian ham, and boil it for 
breakfast to-morrow (Note 4, ]\Iay 27th). 

4. Pluck the chicken and hang it in a cool larder ; dry the feathers 
(February 28th). 



September 18th. 



Breakfast. 



Pickled Herrings. 

Boiled Ham. 

RoUs. 

Dry Toast. 

BroHTi and Wliite Bread and 

Butter. 
Marmalade. 
Milk Toast. 



Luncheon. 

Flap of Beef, Boiled witli 

Carrots aud Tiiruips. 
Eice R^chaiilfe. 



Dinner. 



Filleted Hake. 

Fricassee of Chickea. 

Potatoes. 

Baked Tomatoes. 

Chocolate Pudding. 

Custard. 

Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— A piece of Hake, "weighing about two pounds, from the middle 
of the fish (August 7th) ; Potatoes ; Tomatoes ; Turnips ; Carrots ; an ounce 
of German Yeast ; Plimis. 

For To-morrow.— Watercress ; six or eight small Soles : " Slips " (January 
3rd). 

Breakfast. — Pickled Herrings (August 20th); Boiled Ham (May 
2Vth) ; Rolls (September 4th) ; Milk Toast (June 17th). 

Luncheon. — Flap of Beef, Boiled (February 23rd) ; Turnips (Sep- 
temljer 30th) ; Carrots (July 6th) ; Rice Rdchautte (April 27th). 

Dinner. — Filleted Hake (July 19th). Follow this recipe, sub- 
stituting only hake for the salmon. Chicken, Fricasseed (July 28th) ; 
Potatoes (April 7th) ; Baked Tomatoes (July 7th) ; Chocolate Pudding 
(July 24th) ; Custard (August 10th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Preserve the chicken bones and the liquor the beef was boiled in. 

2. Pastry is to be made to-day (April 17th) : Plum Pies (August 



A YE Arcs COOKERY. 



331 



7tli) and Treacle Tart (August Vth) ; also Milk Eolls (August 26tli) and 
llice Cake (August 2nd). 

3. Partially prepare the rice milk for breakfast {see Note 3, June 

4. Soak a cupful of white haricot beans in cold water all night. 



September 19th, 



Breakfast. 


Lunclieon. 


Dinner. 


Baked Slips. 


Liver and Bacon. 


Boiled Brill and Aucliovy 


Boiled Ham. 


Treacle Tart. 


Sauce 


Milk Eolls. 




Sea Pie. 


Dry Toast. 




Potatoes. 


Brown aad White Bread and 




Mashed Turnips. 


Butter. 




Guest's Pudding. 


Watercress. 




Cheese. 


Eice Milk. 







Marketing. 

For the Day.— A ponnd and a half of Calf's Liver ; half a pound of Streaky 
Bacon (January 3rd) ; a thick Brill (January 9th) ; two pounds and a half of 
Buttock Steak (see Marketing, January 1st) ; Turnips ; Potatoes ; Parsley ; 
ten ounces of firm Suet. 

For To-morrow.— A pair of moderate-sized thick Soles (January 3rd). The 
Saddle of Mutton that has been hanging since last Tuesday week will pro- 
bably now be ready for the spit. A pound of Plums; Potatoes; Scarlet 
Runners ; three or four Tomatoes ; a fresh Haddock ; Sardines for Monday ; 
half an Endive, and a pennyworth of Beet-root to garnish the haricot salad ; 
half a pound of Bacon for Monday. 

Breakfast, — Baked Slips (January 7th) ; Boiled Hani (May 
27th) ; Milk Bolls (August 26th) ; Bice Milk (June 18th). 

Luncheon. — Liver and Bacon (January 17th) ; Treacle Tart 
(August 7th). 

Dinner. — Boiled Brill and Anchovy Sauce (January 9th and July 
17th) ; Sea Pie (March 14th) ; Potatoes (April 7th) ; Mashed Turnips 
(September 30th) ; Guest's Pudding (April 14th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. If the boiled ham is almost finished, cut all that is left from 
the bone, then mince it, and put it between two i^lates to keep it 
moist till morning. 

2. Follow the directions given Note 1, September 9th. 

3. Boil the haricot beans (June 2()-th), drain them, and put them 
away. They are intended for haricot salad to-morrow night. 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



Sunday, September 20th. 



Breakfast. 


Dinner. 


Tea. 


Supper. 


Ham Toast. 


Soles, Filleted, 


Brown and Wliite 


Cold Mutton. 


Rizzared ITaddock. 


Eolled.and Baked, 


Bread and Butter. 


Haricot Salad. 


Milk Rolls. 


witli Brown But- 


Milk Rolls. 


Sliced Tomatoes. 


Dry Toast. 


ter Sauce. 


Apple Jelly. 


Damson Pie. 


Brown and White 


Eoast Saddle of 


Eico Cake. 


Clieese. 


Bread and Butter, 


Mutton. 






Plum Porridge. 


Venison Sauce. 
Scarlet Eunners. 
Potatoes. 

Mountain Pudding 
Clieese. 







Breakfast. — Ham Toast (Marcli 28th) ; Rizzared Haddock 
(September lOtli) ; Milk Rolls (August 2GtIi) ; Plum Porridge 
(August 31st). 

Dinner. — Soles, Filleted, Rolled, and Baked (March 1st) ; BroA\Ti 
Butter Sauce (February 12th) ; Roast Saddle of Mutton (March 
4th). Venison Sauce. — Melt two table-spoonfuls of red currant jelly, 
and mix with it a table-spoonful of port or claret. Heat in a small 
saucepan, and serve very hot. Potatoes (May 6th) ; Scarlet Runners 
{see Kidney Beans, August 16th). ILonnlain Pudding. — Butter a 
pie-dish and line it with ratafias, and grate the rind of a lemon 
over them. Mix two ounces of flour with a little cold milk to a 
smooth paste, and add cold milk gradually to make a pint. Boil 
this for ten minutes, stirring all the time. Pour the mixture gently 
over the ratafias, and soak for ten minutes. Beat the whites of the 
eggs to a stifi:' froth. Stir two ounces of sifted sugar to this, and add a 
little corn-flour or arrowroot to make the icing stifl". Arrange it 
on the pudding in five or six little mounds to imitate mountains, and 
put the pudding in the oven till the^se are lightly browned. Serve 
cold. This icing will take no harm -if it is made two or three hours 
before it is wanted. Cheese (June 8th). 

Tea.— Milk Rolls (August 26th) and Rice Cake (August 2nd). 

Supper, — Haricot Salad (March 20th). Sliced Tomatoes. — Prepare 
these an hour or so before they are wanted. Rub a small dish with 
cut garlic or shalot ; cut the tomatoes into thin slices, lay these on 
the dish, and sprinkle i^lenty of salt and a very little pepper over 
them. Pour a little oil and vinegar over all. Plum Pie (zVugust 7th) 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. As soon as the mutton leaves the table put it on a clean dish. 

2. If any beans vrere left at dinner they can be added to the 
Haricot Salad. 



I 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



333 



September 21st. 



Breakfast. 


Luncheon. 


Dinner. 


Toasted Bacon 


Shepherd's Pie, 


Miilligatawney Soup. 


Sardines. 


Sweet Macaroni. 


Cold Mutton and Salad, or. 


Milk Rolls. 




if prefen-ed. Hash ii la 


Dry Toast. 




Sauce Piquante. 


Brown and White Bread and 




Potatoes. 


Butter. 




Vegetable Marrow. 


Oatmeal Porridge. 




Boiled Batter Pudding. 
Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— Half a pound of Macaroui ; materials for Salad, if required ; 

Potatoes ; Vegetable Marrow. 
For To-morrow.— A tin of Corned Beef ; one pound of ripe Tomatoes. 

Breakfast, — Toasted Bacon (January 19th) ; Sardines (January 
12th) ; Milk Rolls (August 26th) ; Porridge (January 25th). 

Luncheon. — ShejyhercVs Pie (January 12th). — This can be made 
of remnants of meat left from the sea pie. Sweet Macaroni (August 
13th). 

Dinner. — Mulligatawney Soup (January 16th) ; Salad (March 
13th) ; Cold I\Ieat \ la Sauce Piquante (March 30th) ; Potatoes 
(April 7th) ; Vegetable ]\Iarrow (September 3rd) ; Boiled Batter 
Pudding (T^Iay 18th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Partially prepare a little tomato sauce, to be ready for breakfast 
to-morrow (July 15th). If preferred, the tomatoes can be baked 
(July 7th). 

2. Stew the mutton bones in the stock made from the chicken 
bones ; gravy soup can be made of it to-morrow. 



September 22nd 



Breakfast. 



Eggs in Sunshine. 

Corned Beef. 

Hot Buttered Toast. 

Dry Toast. 

Brown and White Bread and 

Butter. 
Bread and Milk. 



Iiuneheon. 

Veal EoUs. 
Compote of Plums. 



Dinner. 



Gravy Soup. 

Beef-steak and Muslu oom 

Pie. 
Mashed Potatoes. 
Newcastle Pudding. 
Cheese. 



Marketing. 
For the Day.— Two and a half or three pounds of lean Veal fi'om the fiUet or 

loin ; a (luarter of a pound of Suet for forcciaeat ; two pounds of Rump or 

Buttock Steak {January 1st); luilf an Ox Kidney; a quarter of a pint of 

Mushi'oonis ; one pound of Plums ; Potatoes. 
For To-morrow.— A Cow Heel ; hot PvoUs for breakfast ; four-pennyworth of 

Cream. 



A YEARS COOKERY. 



Breakfast. — Eggs in Sunshine (July 15th) ; Corned Beef pro- 
cured yesterday ; Bread and Milk (January 25thi 

Luncheon. — Yeal Bolls (May 5th) ; Compote of Plums (August 
5th). 

Dinner. — Gravy Soup. — Take any bones that there may be or 
stock made from bones, also two or three strips of bacon-rind scalded 
and scraped. Weigh them, and over three pounds of bones put two 
quarts of cold water. Bring the liquor to a boil and skim it weR, 
then put into it two carrots scraped and cut into slices, two turnips, 
an onion stuck with two cloves, a bunch of parsley, a sprig of thyme, 
a bay-leaf, a blade of mace, and fifteen peppercorns. Simmer gently 
and skim carefully for two hours. Strain the stock, add salt to taste, 
and dissolve haK a spoonful of Liebig's extract of meat in it. If it is 
not sufficiently browned, add a few drops of sugar browning ; boil up 
again, and serve. If liked, two or three vegetables can be boiled 
separately and put into the soup. Beef-steak and Mushroom Pie 
(March 26th) ; :Mashed Potatoes (May 12th) ; Newcastle Pudding 
(June 12th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Rough puff paste will be excellent for the beef -steak pie (May 
29th). 

2. Put a cupful of hominy to soak all night in cold water (Feb- 
ruary 10th). 



Breakfast. 



Eggs oil tlie Dish. 

Corned Beef. 

Hot Rolls. 

Dry Toast. 

Brown and White Bread and 

Butter. 
Boiled Hominy. 



September 23rd 

I 



Luncheon. i Dinner. 



Cow Heel, with Parsley I Baked Halibut. 



Sance. 
Custard Sippets. 



Norman Hai-icot. 
Young Carrots. 
Wyvern Puddings. 
Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— Two or three pounds of lean Veal for the Norman haricot; 

three or four slices of Halibut (Jmie 11th) ; Carrots; Potatoes. 
For To-morrow.— ]\Iuffiiis (January 29th) ; Apples ; a slice to be taken from the 

middle of tlie Canadian Ham bought September 17th ; a pound of Plums for 

hydropathic pudding. 

Breakfast. — Eggs on the Dish (December 7th) ; Corned Beef left 
from yesterday ; Piolls (September 4th) ; Boiled Hominy (February 

nth). 

Luncheon. — Cow Heel, with Parsley Sauce (February 20th); 
Custard Sippets (June 10th). 

Dinner. — Halibut Cutlets (June 23rd); Norman Haricot (August 
24th); Young Carrots (July 6th); Wyvern Puddings (May 9th); 
Cheese (June 8th). 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



33ii 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Be careful to preserve any hominy that may be left ; it can be 
fried for breakfast to-morrow. Also preserve any cold fish that may 
be left for fish cakes to-morrow. 

2, Garlic comes into the market in September. It should be kept 
like shalots (August 11th). 



September 24th. 



Breakfast. 



Fried Ham. 

Fried Eggs. 

Muffins. 

Dry Toast. 

Brown and White Bread 

and Butter. 
Fried Hominy. 



Luncheon. 

Fisli Cakes. 
Treacle Pudding. 



Dinner. 



I Boiled Hake. 
I Caper Sauce. 
I Loin of Lamb, Braised, 
I Baked Tomatoes. 
I Apple Gateau. 
Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— Half a pound of good Beef Suet for the two puddings; about 
three pounds of Hake (Augusi 7th) ; a Loin of Lamb (Marketing, May 22nd) ; 
a pound of Ripe Tomatoes ; one pound of Apples ; Parsley. 

For To-morrow.— A tin of Collared Tongue (January 2nd) ; a Cow Heel for beef 
k la mode ; a pint of Blackberries for the hydi-opathic pudding. 

Breakfast. — Fried Ham (March 5th) ; Fried Eggs (March 5th) ; 
I\Iufiins (January 30th) ; Fried Hominy (February 12th). 

Luncheon. — Fish Cakes, made of cold potatoes and the remnants 
of halibut (January 13th) ; Treacle Pudding (March 28th). 

DiNNEii. — Boiled Hake. — Proceed as for boiled salmon (July 
5th) ; Caper Sauce (March 19th) ; Loin of Lamb, Braised (May 
22nd) ; Baked Tomatoes (July 7th). Ajyjyle Gateau. — Take some 
stale bread and rub it through a wire sieve. Weigh six ounces of the 
crumbs, and put with them six ounces of sugar, four ounces of suet 
chopped small, the grated rind of one lemon, half a pound of apples, 
weighed after being pared, cored, and chopped, two table-spoonfuls 
of flour, half a spoonful of baking-powder, the strained juice of two 
lemons, and three, or if preferred, two eggs. Put the mixture into a 
greased tin mould, and steam it for three hours (Treacle Pudding, 
March 28th). Let the pudding stand two or three minutes before 
turning it out, and serve it with sweet sauce (July 19th). Cheese 
(June 8th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Boil a table-spoonful of rice, as for curry (July 21st). 

2. Take care of any hake that may be left; kedgeree can be 
made for breakfast to-morrow. 

3. Make a hydropathic pudding (June 16th) for dinner to-morrow 
with the blackberries bought in the morning. 



336 



A YEARS COOKERY. 



September 25th. 



Breakfast. 




Lunclieon. 


Dinner. 


Kedgeree. 




Beef k la Mode. 


Haddock, Stuif ed and 


Rolled Tongue. 




Jam Turnovera. 


Baked. 


Hot Buttered Toast. 






Ciu-ried Rabbit. 


Dry Toast. 






Boiled Rice. 


Browu and White 


Bread 




Cauliflowers. 


and Butter. 






Hydropathic Pudding 


Milk Porridge. 






Custard. 
Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— Two pounds of lean Beef, cut in a thick slice (February Utli); a 
good-sized fresh Haddock (September ith) ; four ounces of liecf Suet ; two 
moderate-sized Ostend Ilabbits (January 21th) ; Caulillowers ; a pennyworth 
of German Yeast ; Apples and Damsons for pies. 

For To-morrow.— A tin of Sardines (January 12th) ; Sea Biscuits, if not in the 
house. 

Breakfast. — Kedgeree (January lOtb) ; Eolled Tongue (January 
2iid) ; Milk Porridge (June 13tli). 

Luncheon. — Beef a la Mode (February 14tli). Jam Turnovers. — 
These can be made with the pastry to-day. Take the trimmings of 
the pastry, and roll it out to the thickness of a quarter of an inch. 
Stamp it -into rounds with a small saucer ; spread a Httle jam upon 
one half, moisten the edges with water, and turn the other half over. 
Press the edges of pastry together, brush them over with water, 
sprinkle a little white sugar on the top, and bake on tins in a brisk 
oven. If liked, fresh fruit can be used instead of jam, but if it is of 
a kind that will not fall easily it should be partially stewed before 
being put into the pastry. 

Dinner. — Haddock, Stuffed and Baked (September 4th) ; Curried 
Rabbit (July 16th) ; Boiled Rice (July 21st) ; Cauliflowers (April 
25th); Hydropathic Pudding (June 16th); Custard (August 10th) ; 
Cheese (June 8th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Pastry is to be made to-day (April 17th) : Apple and Damson or 
Blackberry Pies (August 7th), Jam Turnovers, above ; also Teacakes 
(August 26th) and Annie's Cake. — Put two pounds of flour into a bowl, 
and mix with it a salt-spoonful of salt and six heaped tea-spoonfuls 
of baking-powder (August 2nd). Rub in one pound of butter or 
clarified dripping, and add a pound of sugar, half a pound of raisins, 
a pound and a half of currants, four ounces of mixed peel chopped 
small, and half a tea-spoonful of grated nutmeg. JMoisten with four 
eggs well beaten and a little milk. Turn into tins lined with paper, 
and bake in a well-heated oven. This quantity will make two good- 
Blzed cakes. 

2. Soak a cupful of green lentils all night in cold water. 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



337 



September 26th. 



Breakfast. 


Luncheon. 


Dinner. 


Sardines. 


Eal.bit Gateau. 


Croftte au Pot. 


Rolle.l Tongne. 


Apple Pie. 


Ribs of Beef, Boned and 


Tearakcs. 




Rolled. 


Dry Toast. 




Lentils. 


Brown ami AVhitc Bread 




Browned Potatoes. 


aud Butter. 




Newmarket Pudding. 


Manna lade. 




Cheese. 


Biscuits aud Milk. 







Marketing. 

For the Day.— Two Ribs of Beef, boned and rolled (Sept ember 8th) ; Potatoes. 

Jiuy also a piece of the Silverside of fi'esh Beef, weighing eight or ten 

pounds. 
For To-morrow.— A pair of thick Soles (January 3rd); a dried Haddock; a 

couple of Ducks (July 4th) ; Ingredients for a Salad ; Apples for apple mould; 

I'arsley. If permitted, order a little Cream for supper to-morrow. Ajarol 

Anchovy Paste. 

Breakfast. — Sardines (January 12th) ; Piolled Tongue (January 
2nd) ; Biscuits and Milk (June 14th). 

Luncheon. — Rabbit Gateau, made of the flesh of the cold rabbit 
picked from the bones (July 9th) ; Apple Pie (August Tth). 

Dinner. — Croute au Pot (May 25th) ; Ribs of Beef, Boned and 
RoUed (March 4tli or 8th) ; Lentils (March 2nd) ; Browned Potatoes 
(October 18th) ; Newmarket Pudding (June 2nd); Cheese (June 8th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Make a littl 'jrine (January 13th), and lay the silverside of 
beef in it. 

2. Stew the bones of the beef for stock (February 13th). 

3. Pluck the ducks, and scald the giblets for gravy. 

4. Partially prepare the rice and barley porridge for breakfast to- 
morrow (Note 6, June 15th). 

5. With the remnants of the collared tongue make Potted Tuncjue 
for breakfast to-morrow. Take all that remains of the tongue, trim 
away and scrape off any dark unsightly portions. Cut the rest into 
thin slices and chop it small, then pound it in a mortar till quite 
smooth. Whilst pounding keep adding the flavouring ingredients, 
pepper and cayenne, salt, if' required, mustard, and very little grated 
nutmeg, with dissolved fresh butter to make the preparation mellow. 
Press the meat into a small potting jar, cover it with dissolved butter, 
and it is ready. 

6. ^lake the apple mould (September 15th). 



338 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



Sunday, September 27th. 



Breakfast. 

Drierl Hadiloclc. 

Potted TongTie. 

Teacakes. 

Dry Toast. 

Brown and White 

Bread and Butter. 
Marmalade. 
Rice and Barley 

Porridge. 



Dinner. 

Sole, Fillets of, 

Santas. 
Maitre d'Hotol 

Sauce. 
Boast Ducks. 
Vegetable Marrow. 
Damson or Black- 

IteiTy Pie. 
Cream Ckeese. 



I Tea. 

: Brown and White 
j Bread and Butter. 
: Teacakes. 

Strawberry Jam 

Annie's Cake 



Supper. 

Cold Eoast Eibs of 

Beef. 
Salad. 

Apple Mould. 
Cream Cheese. 



Breakfast. — Dried Haddock (January 27th); Potted Tongue 
(Note 5, September 26th) ; Teacakes (February 14th) ; Rice and 
Barley Porridge (June 15th), 

DiNNEii. — Fillets of Sole Saut(5s (January 4th) ; ISIaitre d'Hotel 
Sauce (May 6th) ; Roast Ducks (July 26th) ; Vegetable Marrow 
(September 3rd) ; Damson Pie (August 7th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 

Tea. — Annie's Cake (September 25th). 

Supper. — Salad (March 13th) ; Apple Mould (September 15th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Turn and rub the beef in the brine. 

2. Pat a cupful of white haricot beans to soak all night in cold 
water. 



September 28th. 



Breakfast. 



Ancliovy Paste. 

Eggs in Brown Butter. 

Teacakes. 

Dry Toast. 

Brown and White Bread 

and Butter. 
Honey. 
Milk Toast. 



Luncheon. 

Beef Kissoles. 
Macai-oni Cheese. 



Dinner. 



Haricot Puree. 

Chicken, Fidcassded. 

Potatoes. 

Beans. 

Vieunoise Pudding. 

Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— Half a pound of Macaroni (January 1st) ; one, or if the require- 
ments of the family call for it, two plump Fowls ; Potatoes ; Beans. 

For To-morrow.— Half a pound of Mushrooms ; a potmd of Blackberries cr 
other fruit ; half a pound of Bacon ; Multins (January 29th) ; bespeak an 
Ox Kidney ; also order a freshly-killed yountr Goose. The breast should be 
plump, the skin white, the feet yellow and pliable. If a set of Chicken 
Giblets can be procured to-morrow, in addition to the goose giblets, the soup 
on Wednesday will be so much the better. 

Breakfast. — Anchovy Paste, bought the day before yesterday ; 
Eggs in Brown Butter (January 6th) ; Teacakes (February 14th) ; 
Milk Toast (June 17th). ^ 

Luncheon. — Beef Rissoles, made of the remnants of the cold ribti 
of beef (January 6th) ; IMacnroni Cheese (March 20th). 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



339 



Dinner. — Haricot Purde (March 9th) ; Chicken, Fricasseed (July 
28th) ; Potatoes (May 12th) ; Beans (August 16th) ; Vien noise 
Pudding (July 6th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Stew the chicken bones for stock (February 13th). 

2. It should be remembered that Viennoise pudding can he made 
witJi stale bread instead of fresh bread-crumbs. 

3. Turn and rub the beef in the brine. 



September 29th. 



Breakfast. 


Luncheon, 


Dinner. 


Anchovy Paste. 

Mushrooms and Bacon. 

Muffins. 

Dry Toast. 

Brown and White Broad 

and Butter. 
Honey. 
Compote of Blackberries, 

with Milk. 


stewed Ox Kidney. 
Stirabout Cheeso. 


Cod's Head and Shoulders. 

Oyster Sauce. 

Eoast Goose, with Sage 

and Onion Stuffing. 
Apple Sauce. 
Savom-y Pudding. 
Potatoes. 
Cabbages. 
Baked Batter Pudding, with 

Jam. 
Cheese. 







Marketing. 

For the Day.— Cod's Head and Shoulders (January 6th) ; a dozen fresh Oysters, 
or, if preferred, a tin of Oysters; Ox Kidney, ordered yesterday; a little 
Indian Meal, if this is not in the house ; Sage ; Onions ; Apples ; a large fresh 
Lemon ; Potatoes ; Cabbages ; a set of Giblets in addition to the goose giblets; 
if they can be procured ; a pound of Blackberries or other fruit for juice. 

For To-morrow.— A tin of Potted Grouse; Bloaters for breakfast; Rolls 
(September 3rd) ; Watercress. 



Breakfast.— Anchovy Paste, served yesterday • IMushrooms and 
Bacon (September 8th) ; Muffins (January 30th) ; Comi)ote of Fresh 
Fruit (August 5th), to be taken mth bread and butter and milk. 

liUNCHEON. — Stewed Ox Kidney (April 2nd) , Stirabout Cheese 
(August 1st). 

Dinner. — Cod's Head and Shoulders (December 6th) ; Oyster 
Sauce (October 16th). Roast Goose, with Sage and Onion Stuffing : — 
Pluck the goose carefiilly, remove the quill sockets, and singe off the 
little hairs that may remain by holding a lighted paper close to the skin. 
Draw the bird, and wash and wipe it inside and out ; truss it firmly, 
with the legs and pinions fastened close to the body. Fill it witli 
sage and onion stuffing, and put a fresh lemon in the centre of the 
stuffing. The lemon should have had the thin yellow rind taken off, 
leaving untouched the thick white skin that lies under it. This white 

Eith will absorb the objectionable flavour from the onion, and should 
e taken out and throwTi away before the goose is sent to table. Tie 
the openings of the bird securely, fasten a greased paper on the breast 



340 A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



of the bird, put it neck downwards to a clear brisk fire, and baste it 
liberally with good dripping till done enough. It is a sign that it is 
done when the steam draws to the tire (March 4th), It must be well 
roasted. Lift it on a hot dish, take out the skewers, and remove the 
lemon ; pour a little brown gravy round it, and send more gravy and 
apple sauce to table with it. A small goose will require to be roasted 
about an hour and three-quarters, a large one two hours or two hours 
and a haK. Brown Gravy for the Boast Goose. — Slice an onion, chop 
it small, and fry it in a little butter till lightly browned. Pour over 
it a little more than a pint of stock made from bones (February 13th), 
and add a bunch of parsley, a blade of mace, six peppercorns, a 
spoonfiU of sugar browning (January 2nd), and a little salt. jSIix a 
dessert-spoonful of Hour to a smooth paste with a little cold water, 
and stew the gravy gently for an hour or more till it is good and of 
the thickness of cream. If there is no stock in the house, the giblets 
can be stewed for gravy (see Brown Gravy from Giblets, October 
18th). Sage and Onion Stuffincf. — Peel four large onions, put them 
into a saucepan with plenty of cold water, and let them boil till 
tender. Drain them well, chop them till small, and mix with them 
four table-spoonfuls of bread-crumbs, four fresh sage-leaves chopped, 
or six dry ones powdered, and a little pepper and salt. Aj^ple Sauce 
for Goose. — Pare, core, and cut into small pieces two or three pounds 
of baking apples. The ciuantity must be regulated by the require- 
ments of the family. Put them into a saucepan with two or three 
spoonfuls of water, cover them closely, and simmer very gently till 
the apples are quite soft. Shake the pan occasionally to keep the 
fruit from burning. When done enough, beat them to pulp, add a 
small piece of butter and a little sugar, but not enough to remove the 
acidity of the apples ; serve in a tureen. Savoury Pudding is in some 
places considered a suitable accompaniment both to roast goose and 
roast pork. It is an excellent dish, besides being an economical one, 
seeing that it makes the goose " go " further. To make it, break into 
small pieces as much bread as will fill a pint basin, and pour over it as 
much boiling milk as it will absorb : that will be a little more than a 
pint. Cover the dish, and let the bread soak till soft. Beat it Avell 
with a fork, and remove any hard lumps there may be. Put with it 
four good-sized onions boiled and chopped, a quarter of a pound of 
chopped suet, a tea-spoonful of powxlered sage, a table-spoonful of 
oatmeal, and plenty of pepper and salt. _ ]\Iix thoroughly, and add 
two well-beaten eggs; acid a little more milk if necessary ; the pudding 
should be a thick batter. Pour it into a greased dripping-tin that it 
will cover to the thickness of about three-quarters of an inch, bake it 
in the oven for about haK an hour, then put it under the goose, and 
turn it about till it is brightly browned all over ; let it stand a minute, 
cut into squares, and serve it as Yorkshire pudding is served ivifh the 
goose. It will take about an hour and a half in all to cook it properly. 
Potatoes (^lay 12th) ; Cabbages (June 4th) ; Baked Batter, with Jans 
(February 5th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



3U 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. If the giblets do not need to be stewed for gravy, clean them as 
soon as possible (Februaiy 1st), and put them into boiling water for 
five minutes. This will preserve them for awhile, 

2. Make a sago mould for dinner to-morrow (October 8th). 

3. liemember to keep the bloaters apart from all other food. 

4. Preserve the liquor in which the cod was boiled. 

5. Partially prepare the rice milk for breakfast to-morrow (Note 
3, June 17th). 

6. Turn and rub the beef in the brine. 



September 30th. 



Breakfast. 



Bloaf CIS on Toast. 

Potted Grouse. 

Hot Eolls. 

Dry Toast. 

Brown aiid WLitu Bread 

aud Butter. 
Watercress. 
Rice Milk. 



I Luncheon. 

j Hashed Goose. 
Savoiu-y Puddiii;^ made liot 
wanting this, Custai-d Sip 
pets. 



Dinner. 



Giblet Soup. 

Boiled Leg of Muttou. 

Caper Sauce. 

Mashed Tui-uips. 

Potatoes. 

Cold Sago, with Fridt Juict-. 

Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— A plump Leg of IMutton ; Turnips ; Potatoes ; Parsley. 
For To-morrow.— Three or four ripe Tomatoes for breakfast ; order four-penny- 
worth of Cream for the soup to-morrow. 

Breakfast. — Bloaters on Toast (March 24th); Potted Grouse 
(January 7th) ; Hot Rolls (September 4th) ; Rice Milk (June 18th). . 

Luncheon. — Hashed Goose. — Prepare the gravy for this dish as 
early as possible, as it should have time to get cold before being used. 
Divide what is left of the roast goose into neat pieces. Put the 
stuffing on a separate dish, and just before it is wanted make it hot 
in the oven. Draw off the skin of the goose, put it, with the bones 
and trimmings, into a saucepan, and pour over it the brown gravy left 
yesterday, with additional stock or water to make about a pint and a 
ciuarter. Add a sliced onion, half a blade of mace, and a bunch of 
parsley, and stew gently for about an hour. MLx a dessert-spoonful 
of flour to a smooth paste with a httle cold water, stir this into the 
gravy, and boil the sauce a cparter of an hour longer till it is thick 
and smooth. Strain it, put it aside, and when cold remove the fat 
that rises to the surface. If there is not time for it to go cold, put it 
in a basin and set it in cold Avater, as that will make the fat rise to 
the surface quickly. Arrange the pieces of goose in a saucepan, 
sprinkle pepper and salt over them, pour as much gravy over them as 
will abncst, but not quite, cover thcin, and heat the hash very gently 
V)y the side of the fire, without once allowing it to boil. When it is 
hot through, put the meat on a dish, pour the sauce over it, arrange 
the stufling (made hot) in heaps round it, garnish with sippets, and 



312 A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



serve. Savoury Pudding (September 29th) ; Custard Sippets (June 
10th). 

Dinner. — Giblet Soup (February Ist) ; Boiled Lc.g: of Mutton 
(February 23rd) ; Caper Sauce (March 19th) ; Potatoes" (April 7th) ; 
Mashed Turnips. To Boil Turnips. — Wash and brush the turnips in 
cold water. Pare away the thick skin, cutting down till a line can be 
seen a little way in. This outer part is stringy and bitter to the 
taste, and should be rejected Throw the turnips into cold water till 
they are to be cooked. If very large, cut them in halves, throw them 
into plenty of boiling water, -put the lid on the pan, and boil till 
tender. Take them up, put them into a stewpan, cover them with 
stock, add a tea-spoonful of sugar, and boil quickly till the sauce 
is reduced to a glaze. Shake the pan that the turnips may be coated 
with the glaze, and serve. The time they will take will depend upon 
their age ; young turnips will be done enough in half an hour or 
less ; fully-grown turnips will need about an hour's boiling ; very 
old turnips no amount of boiling will make tender. To Mash 
Turni2:>s. — Drain the boiled turnips, and squeeze the water from them, 
mash them well ; put them into a saucepan with a small lump of 
butter, pepper and salt to taste, and a spoonful or two of cream or 
milk Turn all over the fire till quite hot, and serve. Parsnips may 
be both boiled and mashed in the same way, but in preparing them, 
it will be necessary to scrape them only, not to pare them. Cold Sago, 
with Fruit Juice (October 8th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Preserve the liquor in which the leg of mutton was boiled. 

2. Be careful that the pieces of goose do not boil in the gravy ; 
they must simmer only. 

3. Prepare a cupful of bread-crumbs for breakfast to-morrow. 

4. Turn and rub the beef in the brine. 



FRUITS SUITABLE FOR DESSERT IN SEPTEMBER. 

Grapes, Plums, INIelons, Mulberries, Blackberries, Nectarines, 
Apples, Apricots, Peaches, Pomegranates, Pears, Cob Nuts, Filberts, 
Walnuts, Hazel Nuts, Figs. 



KETCHUP. 



Mashroom Ketchup. — Choose mushrooms that are large, fully 
ripe, perfectly fresh, and gathered in dry weather. If they are taken 
in wet weather or soon after rain the ketchup will not keep. Cut otf 
the ends of the stalks, look the mushrooms over, and throw aside any 
that are worm-eaten or decayed. Break the mushrooms into small 
pieces, put them into an earthen pan, and mix them well with salt, in 
the proportion of three-quarters of a pound of salt to a peck of 



A YEARS COOKERY. 



343 



muslirooms. Let them stand for three days, and turn them over 
every now and then with a wooden spoon. Drain the liquor from 
them without pressure, put the juice into a very clean stewpan, and 
let it simmer for half an hour. Pour it out and leave it till next day; 
strain it again, and with everj'' pint of the li(|Uor add a quarter of a 
tea-spoonful of mace, the same quantity of powdered ginger, and half 
the ciuantity of cayenne. Simmer half an hour longer. Let the 
ketchup stand till quite cold, pour it off free from sediment, put the 
clear liquor into perfectly dry, but cold, quart bottles, and put a 
dessert-spoonful of brandy into each bottle. Cork securely with new 
and sound corks, cut these level with the top of the bottle, and seal 
them over to thoroughly exclude the air. Sometimes a spoonful of 
Lucca oil is poui-ed into the ketchup to preserve it. The mushrooms 
that were left after the clear liquor was poured off may have a little 
more salt sprinkled over them, then be put into a cool oven for a 
night, after which the juice can be well pressed from them, and this, 
with the sedhnent left after the juice was strained, can be boiled and 
flavoured highly with a quarter of an ounce each of black pepper, 
Jamaica pepper, cloves, and bruised ginger, with three anchovies 
chopped small and a spoonful of port to every quart of ketchuj). 
This will afford a liquor which, though thick and inferior to the other 
in flavour, will yet be very useful for flavouring stews and hashes. 



Breakfast. 

Fried Tomatoes. 

Mutton CoUops. 

Buttered Toast. 

Dry Toast. 

Brown and Wliite Bread and 

Butter. 
Marmalade. 
Oatmeal Porridge. 



October 1st. 

Luncheon. 

Toad-iu-the-Hole. 
Cauliflower au Gratiu. 



Dinner. 

Oyster Soup. 
Curried Mutton. 
Boiled Eice. 
Vegetable Mariow. 
Golden Pudding. 
Clieese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— One pound of Buttock Steak for Toad-in-the-hole ; a lari^^c Cauli- 
flower: Vcf^'etable Marrow; six ounces of Beef Suet; a tin of Oysters or a 
dozen fresh Oysters. 

For To-morrow.— A dried Haddock ; order a fine Ox-lail. 



Breakfast. — Mutton Catlaps, with Tomatoes. — Cut half a dozen 
thin slices from the cold mutton. Break an egg- into a plate and 
beat it lightly. Drav*^ the slices of mutton through it and toss them 
in the bread-crumbs, ^vllicll have been nuxed with a tea-spoonful of 
flour and a little pepper and salt. ]Melt a slice of butter in a fryiug- 
pan, put in the collojis, and cook them very gently. Wlien they are 
brown uv)on one side turn them to the other. Cut the tomatoes into 
slices about half an inch thick. Take up the coUops, put them on a 
hot dish, and fry the tomatoes in the same fat. In three or four 



344 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



minutes tliey Avill be done. Put tliem round tlie collops, sprinkle a 
few bread-crumbs over tliem, and serve. Porridge (January 25th). 

Luncheon. — Toad-in-tlie-Hole (January 15tli) ; CauliHower au 
Gratin (April 25th). 

Dinner. — Ouster Soiq?. — Take the liquor in which the cod was 
boiled, or, if this is not available, the liquor in which the leg of 
mutton was boiled can be used. Throw a small onion, a little salt, 
and about a dozen peppercorns into it, and boil it till it is considerably 
reduced. Skim it well and strain it. Put about a quart of it back 
into the stewpan, with a bay-leaf and the strained liquor from a tin 
of oysters. The oysters themselves may be put on a dish in the oven 
to be made hot. Stir in two table-spoonfuls of flour mixed to a 
smooth paste with water. Let the liquor boil, put with it the cream 
ordered yesterday, which has been boiled sejiarately, and add a 
tea-spoonful of anchovy essence. Place the oysters in a hot soup 
tureen, ])our thy soup over them, and serve. If fresh oysters are 
allowed for this soup, jnit the liquor from the shells with the quart of 
stock, beard the oysters, and stew the beards to extract the flavour. 
Strain, thicken, flavour, and boil the soup as before directed. Just 
before serving the soup hold a metal strainer in the boiling stock to 
make it hot, put the oysters in this, let the liquor boil around them 
for about three seconds, then turn them into the soup tureen, and 
pour the soup over them. Curried Mutton. — Use the i-emains of 
the cold boiled leg of mutton for this dish (May 26th). Boiled llice 
(July 21st) ; Vegetable Marrow (September 3rd) ; Golden Pudding 
(May 4th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Turn and rub the beef in the brine. 

2. Boil up the liquor in which the leg of mutton was boiled. 



October 2nd, 



Breakfast. 


Luncheon. 


Dinner. 


Diied Haddock. 


stewed Ox-tail. 


Fillets of Sole Sautds. 


Potted Groiise. 


Browu Betty. 


Rlaitre d' Hotel Sauce. 


Hot Buttered Toast. 




Veal Stew Piquaute. 


Di-y Toast. 




Bacou Rolls. 


Biowu aud White Bread 




Potato Snow. 


aud Butter. 




Cabbage. 


Houey. 




Wyvern Puddings. 


Bread and Milk. 




Cheese. 



Marketing. 

FortheDay.-0.\-tail, ordci-ed yesterday; a pair of thick Soles; from two to 

three pomuls o£ lean Veal from the loin or fillet ; Apple.s; small Cucumber ; 

a Lettuce ; Potatoes; Cabbage; Parsley; a pennyworth of German Yeast ; 

Plums. 
For To-morrow.— Small Soles, "Slips," for breakfast; order a pound aud a hsiU 

of Calf's Liver. 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



345 



Bjieakfast. — Dried Haddock (January 27111); Potted Grouse 
(January 7tli) ; Bread and ]\lilk (January 25tli). 

Luncheon. — Stewed Ox-tail (May 8tli) ; Brown Betty (November 
26tli). 

DiNNEE. — Fillets of Sole Saut6s (January 4tli) ; Maitre d'llotel 
Sauce (May Gth). Veal Steio Piquante. — Cut the veal into neat 
pieces about an inch square. Peel, slice, and flour the cucumber, 
and shred the lettuce finely. Season the veal with pepper and salt, 
flour it well, and fry it in a little butter or clarified dripping until it 
is lightly browned. Fry with it the cucumber and the lettuce, and 
turn the ingredients over in the pan to keep them from burning. 
Put them into a saucepan, pour boiling stock or water over to barely 
cover them, and simmer very gently indeed for an hour, or till the 
veal is tender. Add a few drojts of lemon-juice, and serve very hot. 
When they are in season, a pint of freshly-shelled green peas stewed 
with the meat is an improvement. Bacon llolls (July 19th) ; Potato 
Snow (A])ril 7th); Cabbage (June 4th); Wyvern Puddings (May 9th); 
Cheese (June Sth). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Turn and rub the beef in the brine. 

2. JMake a Plum Gateau for luncheon to-morrow {see Cherry 
Gateau, July 11th). 

3. Pastry is to be made to-day (April 17th) : Apple Pie, Damson 
Pie (August 7th) ; also Milk PioUs (August 26th) and Lemon Cheese- 
cakes (August ISth). 

4. Put a cupful of hominy to soak all night in cold water 
(February 10th). 



October 3rd. 



Breakfast. 



Luncheon. 



Dinner. 



]}aked Slips. 


Liver and Bacou. 


Mock Turtle Soup. 


Buttered Eggs. 


Baked Potatoes. 


Civet of Eabbit. 


Milk lioUs. 


Pliuii Gateau. 


Potatoes. 


Dry Toast. 




Freucli Beans. 


BrowTi and White Bread 




Kice Gateau, with Compote 


and Butter. 




of Blackberries. 


Boiled Hominy. 




Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— Liver, ordered yesterday ; half a povuid of Bacon ; a tin of Mock 
Turtle Soup; one Rood-sized, or if necessary, a couple of Rabbits (January 
2nh) ; Potatoes ; French Beans ; Blackberries to serve with the rice ; a dozen 
fresh Herrings, half soft and half hard rocs. 

For To-morrow.— Three or four pounds from the middle of a good-sized Cod 
(January 1st) ; a pair of plump Fowls ; materials for Stutting; half a pound of 
Ratafias ; a tin of Sardines; a quarter of a pound of German Sausage ; Pota- 
toes ; Vegetable Marrow ; Capers, Gherkins, and Potatoes will be wanted for 
the Russian salad. 



316 



A YEARS COOKERY. 



Breakfast. —Baked Slips (January 7th); Buttered Eggs 
(January 16tli) ; Milk llolls (August 26tli); Boiled Hominv 
(February lltli). 

Luncheon. — Liver and Bacon (January 17th) ; Baked Potatoes 
(May 4th) ; Plum Gateau (July 11th). 

Dinner. — Mock Turtle Soup, from tinned soup (March 15th) ; 
Civet of Rabbit (December 8th) ; Potatoes (May 12th) ; French 
Beans (August 16th). Eice Gateau. — Take four ounces of best 
Carolina rice and wash it well; if this is done it will not be so 
likely to burn. Put it in a saucepan with as much water as will 
cover it, bring it to the boil, and simmer it gently till tlie water is 
aljsorbed, then pour upon it a pint of milk, throw in the thinly-cut 
rind of half a lemon, add a lump of butter, and simmer gently till the 
rice is quite soft. Put it in a basin, and take out the lemon-rind. 
Beat the rice well with the back of a wooden spoon, sweeten it, and 
let it go colcL Break two eggs, and put the whites on a separate 
dish. Stir the yolks unbeaten into the rice. Butter a plain mould, 
throw a handful of finely-grated bread-crumbs into it ; whisk the 
whites of the eggs to a firm froth, at the last moment stir them 
lightly into the rice, pour the mixture into the mould, and bake in a 
hot oven. It will be ready in a little less than an hour. Let it stand 
a minute or two, turn it out, and serve. The Compote of Blacii- 
berries (August 5th) may either be served in a glass disli separately, 
or may be poured round the gateau. Cheese (June 8th), 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Turn and rub the beef in the brine. 

2. Preserve any hominy that may be left ; it can be fried for 
breakfast to-morrow. 

3. Pickle the fresh herrings bought this morning (August 20th). 

4. Pluck the fowls carefully, ready for to-morrow, and leave them 
in a cool larder. Preserve and dry the feathers (Note 1, February 
28th). 

5. If there is no mayonnaise in the house, make a little for the 
Russian salad to-morrow night (August 30th). 



Sunday, October 4th 


. 


Breakfast. 

Pickled Herriugs. 
Boiled Eggs. 
Milk Rolls. 
Dry Toast. 
Llarmaliule. 
Brown and Wliite 
Bread aud Butter. 
Fried Hominy. 


Dinner. 

Baked Cod. 
Koast Fowls. 
Browu Gravy. 
Bread Sauce. 
Potiito Snow. 
Vegetable Marrow. 
Leclie Creme. 
Cheese. 


Tea. 

Brown aud White 
Bread and Butter. 

Black Cun-ant Jam. 

Milk Kolls. 

li e ni o n Cheese- 
cakes. 


Supper. 

Russian Salad. 
Fruit Pie. 
Cheese. 


Breakfast. - 


- Pickled Herrin 


gs (August 20th 


); Boiled Eggs 



A YEAIVS COOKERY. 



347 



(January 5th) ; ISIilk Rolls (August 26tli) ; Fried Hominy (February 
12tli). 

Dinner. — Baked Cod {see Baked Hake, September 1st)' 
Roast Fowls (June 30tli) ; Brown Gravy, made from the fowl 
giblets (October 18th) ; Bread Sauce (October 18th) ; Potato Snow 
(April 7th) ; Vegetable Marrow (September 3rd) ; L^che Cremc 
(May 7th) : Cheese (June 8th). 

Tea. — Lemon Cheesecakes (August 18th). 

SUPPEE.— Russian Salad (April 5th) ; Fruit Pie (August 7th), 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. If the legs of the fowls can be preserved, devil them for break- 
fast to-morrow (January 14th). 

2. Turn and rub the beef in the brine. 

3. Put a cupful of white haricot beans to soak all night in cold 
water. 

4. Preserve the chicken bones ; they will be a valuable addition 
to any stock there may be in the house. 

5. Turn the herrings in the vinegar. 



October 5th. 



Breakfast. 


Luncheon. 


Dinner. 


Devilled Drumsticks. 


Australian Meat, Cold. 


Victoria Soup. 


Pickled Herrings. 


Baked Potatoes. 


Boiled Beef. 


Sardines. 


Plain Eice Pudding. 


Carrots. 


Milk Rolls. 




Tirrmps. 


Dry Toast. 




Haricot Beans. 


brown and White Bread and 




Potatoes. 


Bvitter. 




Cocoa-nut Pudding. 


Honey. 




Cheese. 


Com-floiir Milk. 







Marketing. 

For the Day.— A foiir-pound. tin of Australian Meat; Carrots; Turnips; 
Potatoes ; a small tin of Desiccated Cocoa-nut ; Damsons or Blackbcrricd 
for a pudding. 

For To-morrow.— Partridges are now in full season, but they are so uncertain 
in price that they can scarcely be said to be at the disposal of the strictly 
economical housekeeper. They sliould be well kept before being cooked ; if 
dressed when freshly killed they would be flavourless and hard. The length 
of time that they are to be kept, and tlieir condition when cooked, must 
depend, however, upon the weather and tlie taste of those who have to eat 
them. Young birds are to be preferred, with dark coloured bills and yellow 
legs. Muitins (January 29th). 

Breakfast. — Devilled Drumsticks (January 14th) ; Pickled 
Herrings (August 20th) ; Sardines — the remains of tlie tin opened 
on Sunday night ; Milk Rolls (August 2Gtli) ; Corn-flour Milk (June 
19th). 

Luncheon. — Australian Meat, Cold (FeLruary 4th) ; Baked 
Potatoes (May 4th) ; Plain Rice Pudding (February 24th). 



MS 



A YEARS COOKERY. 



DiNNEii. — Victoria Soup, tlie chicken bones to be stewed in the 
Rtcck (February ^i\\).— Boiled i?e</ (February 23rd).— Wash and boil 
the beef that has been in pickle. Carrots (July 6th) ; Turnips (Sep- 
tember 3C)th) ; Haricot Beans (June 20th) ; Potatoes (May 12th) ; 
Cocoa-nut Pudding (August 8th) ; Cheese (June Sth). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Take the pieces of marrow from the beef bone in as large 
pieces as possible ; marrow toast can be made of them for breakfast 
to-morrow (January 21st). 

2. Put a cupful of green lentils to soak all night in cold water. 

3. Make a mock calf's head mould with the remains of the Aus- 
'ralian meat (x4pril 2()th). 

4. INIalie a hydropathic jiudding for dinner to-morrow with the 
fresh fruit bought this morning (June 16th). 

5. Boil the brine and let it go cold (January 13th). 



October 6th. 



Breakfast. 


Luncheon. 


Dinner. 


Man-ow Toast. 


Scotch Collops. 


Lentil Soup. 


CaK's Head Mould. 


Baked Apj^les. 


Cold Beef. 


Muffins. 




Salad. 


Dry Toast. 




Roast Partridges. 


Bro^vu aud TVTiite Bread and 




Brown Gravy. 


Butter. 




Brown Crumbs. 


Houey. 




Bread Sauce. 


Milk Porridge. 




Potato Snow. 
Hydi-opathic Pudding. 
Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— A pound and a half of Buttock Steak (January 1st) ; materials 
for a Salad ; Potatoes ; Apples ; a square piece of the thiu Flank of Beef, 
Aveig'hing about eight pounds. 

For To-morrow.— A tin of Prawns ; Watercress. 

Breakfast. — Marrow Toast (January 21st) ; Calf's Head Moidd 
April 20th) made j^esterday ; Muffins (January 30th) ; Milk Porridge 
(June 13th). 

Luncheon.— Scotch Collops (January 9th) ; Baked Apples (Feb- 
ruary 9th). 

Dinner. — Lentil Soup (April 1st) ; Cold Beef cooked yesterday ; 
Salad (March 13th). Roast Fartridge. — In England partridges are 
almost always roasted. Pluck and draw the birds, and wipe them 
inside and out. Cut off the head and truss the l>ird, with the thighs 
drawn close to the breast, and the legs erect. If liked, tic a slice of fat 
bacon over the breast to keep it moist, but be careful to remove this 
before sending the bird to table. Spit the partridge, put it down to a 
clear bright tire, and begin to baste it at once with good dripping, and 



A YEARS COOKERY. 349 



baste it every two or three minutes. Small birds will be done enough 
in about twenty-five minutes, large birds will require thirty-five 
minutes. Five minutes before the bird is taken up substitute butter 
for the dripping in basting, take off the bacon, and dredge a little 
Hour on the breast. Serve it immediately ; if it is kept hot in the 
oven or anything of that kind it will most likely be spoilt ; send 
gcK)d l)rown gravy and bread sauce (October 18th), and bread-crumbs 
on a separate dish, to table with it. Grav// for Game should be (lood. 
and will of course need to be made a long time before the birds are 
put down to the fire. It is therefore worth while to allow a little 
gravy beef for this purpose, and if any trimmings of chicken bones 
are at hand so much the better. Take half a pound of lean beef (or 
half veal and half beef may be used), cut them eat into small pieces, 
put it in a saucepan with a slice of butter and a minced onion, and 
move it about till brown ; put with it a bay-leaf, two cloves, six 
peppercorns, a bunch of parsley, a piece of carrot, and a pinch of 
bruised celery-seed tied in muslin; add also a dessert-spoonful of 
corn-hour mixed to a smooth paste with water. Stir the sauce till it 
boils, cover it closely, draw it to the side, and simmer it gently for an 
hour or more till it is strong. Strain, let it cool, free it from fat, add 
a little sugar browning if necessary, and salt to taste. When wanted, 
boil it, put a spoonful or two of sherry into it, pour a little of it 
round the birds, and serve the rest in a hot tureen. Bread'Crumhs 
for Game. — These can, for convenience, be made some time before 
they are required, then made hot in the oven. Take some stale 
crumb of bread, rub it through a wire sieve, and crumble it. 
There must be plenty of crumbs to cover a small dish. Then 
take a piece of butter about the size of an ^gg^ throw it into an 
enamelled stewpan, put in the crumbs, and stir them till they begin 
to colour. Draw them back, and keep stirring till they are 
brown. Put them on blotting-paper before the fire to free them 
from grease, and toss them about with a fork. When heating them 
for use, they must not be allowed to remain in the oven till they are 
hard, or they will be spoilt. Bread Sauce (October 18th) ; Potato 
Snow (April 7th); Hydropathic Pudding made yesterday (June 
Ifith) ; Cheese (June 8th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Carefully preserve the bones and trimmings of the game, with 
any gravy that may be left; excellent soup can be made of it for 
to-morrow. 

2. The remains of the cold beef can be made into Bubble and 
Squeak for luncheon to-morrow. 

3. Put the flank of beef into the brine. 



350 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



October 7th. 



Breakfast. 

Ox Eves. 

Calf's Head Monkl. 

Hot Buttered Toast. 

Dry Toast. 

Brown and Wliite Bread 

and Butter. 
Watercress. 
Biscuits and Milk. 



Luncheon. 

Bubble and Squeak. 
Sweet Macaroni. 



Dinner. 



I Game Soup. 
Loin of Mutton, Boned ond 

Rolled. 
Potatoes. 
Kidney Beans. 
Lemon Dumplings. 
Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— A large Cabbage ; half a pound of Macaroni ; about four pounds 
of the best end of a Loin of Mutton ; the butcher should be asked to bone 
tlie joint. Potatoes ; Kidney Beans ; six ounces of Beef Suet. 

For To-morrow.— A tin of Prawns ; a small sugar-cured Ham ; Mustard and 
Cress ; the Fillet of the rump of Beef (Marketing, January 2nd) ; Fresh Rolls 
for breakfast (September 3rd); order four-pennyworth of Cream for horse- 
radish sauce ; Sea Biscuits. 

BiiEAKFAST. — Ox Eyes (June 5tli) ; Calf's Head Mould left from 
yesterday (April 20tli) ; Biscuits and Milk (June 14tli). 

Luncheon. — Bubble and Squeak (January 22nd) ; Sweet Maca- 
roni (August 13th). 

Dinner. — Game Soup (February 16tli) ; Loin of Mutton, Boned 
and Rolled (April 22nd) ; Potatoes (May 12tli) ; Kidney Beans 
(August IGtli). Lemon Dumplings. — Follow the recipe given for 
lemon pudding (August 12th). Instead of putting the mixture into 
one large moidd, butter a number of cups or small moulds. Lay a 
greased paper on the top of each one, and put them into a shallow 
stewpan, and pour boiling water round them to reach half-way up the 
sides. Put on the cover, and steam the puddings for three-quarters 
of an hour or more, according to the size of the moulds. The dump- 
lings should be set in the middle. Let them stand a minute, turn 
them upon a dish, sift white sugar upon them, and send wine sauce 
(July 19th) to table with them. Cheese (June 8th). 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Turn and rub the beef in the brine. 

2. Boil three or four pounds of the ham for breakfast to-morrow 
(May 27th). 

3. Partially prepare the rice and barley porridge for breakfast. 
(Note 6, June 15th). 

4. Make a Rice Mould for dinner to-morrow. Wash six ounces 
of Carolina rice, and put it into a brown earthenware dish, with a 
pint and a half of milk, and a piece of butter the size of a small nut. 
Place a cover on the top, and put the dish in a dripping-tin with 
boiling water in it. Set it in the oven, and keep the water boiling 
round it till the rice is quite tender and has absorbed the milk If 



A YEARS COOKERY. 



35] 



necessary, add a little more milk — this will depend on the quality of 
the rice. It will take two or three hours. Add sugar to taste, and 
any seasoning that may be preferred —almond, lemon, or vanilla. 
The rice should be stiff, but not hard. Beat it well with a wooden 
spoon till it is quite smooth, then pack it lightly in a damp mould, 
and put it in a cool place all night. AVhen it is to be served, turn 
it upon a glass dish, and pour round it a little lemon or other fruit 
syrup (March 19th), oi- a compote of any fresh fruit (August 5th). If 
preferred, garnish it with jam, or with orange garnish and syrup 
(December 6th). If more convenient, the rice can be simmered in 
a stewpan, but it is much better done in this way. 

5. Brush the fillet of beef over with a table-spoonful of vinegar, 
sprinkle pepper and salt on it, and hang it in a cool, airy place. 



October 8th, 



Breakfast. 


Luncheon. 


Dinner. 


Tinned. Pi-awus. 


Mutton Croquettes. 


Gurnet StuHed and Baketl. 


Boiled Ham. 


Stuffed Tomatoes. 


Fillet of Beef. 


Breakfast EoUs. 


Eice aud Cheese. 


Horse-radish Sauce. 


Dry Toast. 




Yorkshire Pudding. 


Brown and White Bread 




Potatoes. 


aud Bntter. 




Vegetable Marrow. 


Mustard and Cress. 




Rice Mould. 


Biscuits and Milk. 




Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— Two or n>ore Gurnets (February 17th). Gurnets are at their best 
in October ; half a dozen ripe Tomatoes ; Potatoes ; Vegetable Marrow ; a 
young root of Horse-radish. 

For To-morrow.— A tin of Sardines (January 12th) ; a pound of Blackberries or 
Damsons for fi'uit juice. 



Breakfast.— Tinned Prawns (February 7th); Ham boiled 
yesterday (Note 4, May 27th) ; Rolls (September 4th) ; Biscuits and 
Milk (June 14th). 

Luncheon.— Mutton Croquettes (Rissoles, January 6th) ; Stuffed 
Tomatoes (July 23rd) ; Rice and Cheese (February 18th). 

Dinner.— Baked Gurnet (February 17th) ; Fillet of Beef (Febru- 
ary 11th) ; Horse-radish Sauce (December 3rd); Potatoes (May 6th); 
Vegetable Marrow (September 3rd) ; Rice Mould made yesterday 
(October 7th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Turn and rub the beef in the brine. 

2. Make uSar/o Mould, luith Fruit Juice, for luncheon to-morrow, 
-Put the fruit into a brown jar, sprinkle a little moist sugar on it, 



a5? 



YEARS COOKERY. 



and put it in a large ste^vpan half full of boiling water or into a cool 
oven till the juice flows freely. Wash a tea-cupful of sago (large sago 
is to be preferred), soak it for an hour in a pint and a half of cold 
water, then put it into a saucepan, and stir it till it boils. Draw it 
back and simmer it gently, stirring it frequently till it looks clear 
and is thick. Put half a pint of the fruit juice with it, boil toge- 
ther for a few minutes, and add sugar to taste. Pour the preparation 
into a damp mould, and leave it in a cool place till to-morrow. When 
wanted, tui-n it upon a glass dish, sift white sugar over it, and pour 
milk or, if it will be allowed, cream round it. 



October 9th, 



Breakfast. 

Sardiues. 

Boiled Ham. 

Hot Toast. 

Dry Toast. 

Brown aud "WTiite Broad 

and Butter. 
MaiTnalade. 
INIi Ik Toast 



Luncheon. 

SliepTierd's Pie. 

Sago, with Fruit Juice. 

Milk or Cream. 



Dinner. 

Boiled Brill. 

Dutch Sauce. 

Voal and Ham Pie. 

Potatoes. 

Cabbage. 

Pancakes. 

Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— A good-sized Brill (January 3rd and Janiiary 9th) ; two pounds of 
lean Veal from the best end of the Neck or the Breast ; six ounces of mild 
Ham ; three or foiu: IMushrooms ; Potatoes ; Cabbage ; German Yeast. 

For To-morrow.— Half a dozen small Soles, " Slips," for breakfast. 



Breakfast. — Sardines (January 12th) ; Ham (boiled the day 
before yesterday) ; Milk Toast (June 17th). 

Luncheon. — Shepherd's Pie, made of the remains of the roast 
beef (January 12th) ; Sa.sjo, with Fruit Juice (October 8th). 

Dinner. — Boiled Brill (January 9th) ; Dutch Sauce (May 14th) ; 
Veal and Ham Pie (April 29tli) ; Potatoes (April Ttli) ; Cabbage 
(June 4th) ; Pancakes (February 24th) ; Cheese (June 8th), 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Turn and rub the beef in the brine. 

2. Pastry is to be made to-day : Veal and ham pie (April 29th), 
open jam tart (August 7th), lemon cheesecake (Aug-ust 18th), light 
tea-buns (August 14th), teacakes (August 26th). 

3. Partially prepare the rice milk for breakfast '."Note 3, June 17tbX 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



353 



October lOth. 



Breakfast. 


Luncheon. 


Dinner. 


Baked SUps. 


Tripe k la Coutance. 


Cr^cy Soup. 


Ham Toast. 


Lemon Cheesecakes. 


Roast Leg of Pork 


Teacakes. 




Tomato Sauce. 


Dry Toast. 




Potatoes. 


Honey. 




Greens. 


Brovra and White Bread 




Apple Gateau. 


and Butter. 




Cheese. 


Eice Milk. 







Marketing. 

For the Day.— A pound and a half of the thin part of dressed Tripe ; a fresh lep; 

of Pork. Pork is best for roasting when it weighs six or sev'en pounds. Half 

a dozen fnrsh Tomatoes ; Potatoes ; Greens ; Apples. 
For To-morrow.— A moderate-sized Tnrbot; a pint of Shrimps; a Shoulder of 

INIutton, not too fat (January 17th) ; Mint ; Potatoes ; Beans ; materials for a 

Salad. 



Breakfast. — Bakea S]ips (January 7tli) ; Ham Toast (March 
28th) ; Teacakes (February 14th) ; Rice Milk (June 18th). 

Luncheon. — Tripe '^ la Coutanoe (October 23rd) ; Lemon Cheese- 
cakes (August 18th). 

Dinner. — Cr«§cy Soup (January 5th). Boast Leg of Pork. — Cut 
through the skin, but no deeper, in strips half an inch apart. Hub 
dripping or salad oil all over it before putting it to the fire, and 
baste it well whilst it is being roasted (JSIarch 4th). When it is 
about two parts cooked brush it over again with oil. Pour a little 
brown gravy over it, and send more to table in a tureen. Apple 
sauce (September 29th) or tomato sauce (July 15th) are suitable 
accompaniments. Pork should be well cooked, and therefore from 
twenty to twenty-five minutes should be allowed for each pound of 
meat. In some parts of the country savoury pudding (September 
29th) is served with roast pork. Sage and onion are sent to table 
in a separate dish. Mashed Potato Mould (Octoljer 2:3rd) ; Greens 
^June 4tli) ; Apple Gateau (September 24th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

\. Turn and rub the beef in the brine. 

2. Put the roast pork on a clean dish as soon as it leaves the 
table. 

3. Make a corn-flour blancmange for supper to-morrow night 
(June loth). 



35-1 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



Sunday, October llth, 



Breakfast. 

Savoiu-y Egg-s. 
Cold Pork. 
Brawn Sauce. 
Teacakes. 
Dry Toast. 
Brown and White 
Bread and Butter. 
Honey. 
Biscuits and Milk. 



imp 



Dinner. 

Turbot and Slir 

Sauce. 
Eoast Slio '.Ider of 

Mutton. 
Mint Sauce. 
Potatoes. 
Beans. 

Cabinet Pudding. 
Clieose. 



Tea. 

Brown and "White 
Bread and Butter. 
Greengage Jam. 
Light Tea-Buns. 



Supper. 

Cold Mutton. 
Salad. 
Pickle. 

Open Jam Tart. 
Corn-flour Blanc- 
mange. 



Breakfast. — Savoury Eggs (January 1st) ; Cold Pork cooked 
yesterday ; Ijrawn Sauce (January 15th) ; Teacakes (February 14tli) ; 
feiscuits and Milk (June 14tli). 

Dinner. — Boiled Turbot (June 7tli) ; Slirimp Sauce (January 
30th) ; Roast Shoulder of Mutton (March 4th) ; Mint Sauce (March 
25th); Potatoes (April 7th) ; Beans (August 16th) ; Cabinet Pudding 
(July 12th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 

Tea.— Light Tea-Buns (August 14th). 

Supper. — Salad (March 13th) ; Open Jam Tart (August 7th) ; 
Corn-flour Blancmange (June 15th). 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Turn and rub the beef in the brine. 

2. Put a cupful of green lentils to soak all night in cold water. 

3. Partially prepare the rice and barley porridge (Note 6, June 
15th). 



October 12th, 



Breakfast. 

Fried Ham. 

Pried Eggs. 

Teacakes. 

Dry Toast. 

Brown and White Bread 

and Butter. 
Rice and Biudey Porridge. 



Luncheon. 

Scalloped Fish. 
Wy vem Puddings. 



Dinner. 



Lentil Soup. 
Tomato Beef. 
Potatoes. 
Town Puddinj 
Cheese. 



Marketing. 

Foi- the Day.— Thi-ee pounds of leau Beef cut in steaks ; Half a dozen ripe Toma- 
toes ; Potatoes ; Apples ; six ounces of fii'ni Suet. 

For To-morrow.— A tin of Collared Tongue (January 2nd) ; Anchovies ; small 
Salad ; a plump young Fowl, or two Fowls if required. 

Breakfast. — Fried Ham, a slice taken from the ham bought on 
the 7th of October (March 5th) ; Fried Eggs (March 5th) ; Teacakes 
(FelH'uary 14th) ; Rice and Barley Porridge (June 15th). 

Luncheon.— Scalloi^ed Fish : take the remains of the Turbot, 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



355 



and follow the recipe given for Cod (January 7th) ; Wyvern Puddings 
(May 9th). 

Dinner. — Lentil Soup (April 1st). Tomato Beef. — Cut the 
tomatoes into slices ; butter the inside of a stewpan, cover the 
bottom with sliced tomatoes, lay on a portion of the beef, and put 
tomatoes and beef in alternate layers until both are used. Coyer the 
pan closely, place it at the side of the fire, and let its contents simmer 
gently for an hour and a haK. Add pepper and salt, and serve on a 
hot dish. Potatoes (May 6th) ; Town Pudding (December 3rd) ; 
Cheese (June 8th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Turn and rub the beef in the brine. 

2. Cleanse the small salad, and lay it on a cloth to drain, to be 
ready for breakfast ; also hllet the anchovies, and put the fillets 
between two dishes. 

3. Pluck the fowl and hang it in a cold larder ; dry the feathers 
(February 28th) ; clean the giblets, and afterwards throw them 
into boiling water for five minutes. This will help to keep them. 



October 13th 



Breakfast. 


Luncheon. 


Dinner. 


Anchovies and Hard-boiled 


Ham and Macaroni, 


Herrings and Mustard 


Eggs. 


Custard Sippets, 


Sauce. 


Collared Tongue. 




Fricassee of Fowl, 


Hot Buttered Toast. 




Potatoes. 


Dry Toast. 




General Favom-ite Pudding, 


Brown and White Bread 




Cheese. 


and Butter. 






Milk Toast. 







Marketing. 

For the Day — Half a pound of Macaroni ; Fresh Herrings. One for each 
person and one over (August 25th) ; Potatoes ; half a pint of Mushrooms, 
or a small tin of Champignons for the Fowl ; fom--penny worth of Finger 
Biscuits ; Quinces (see Note 4). 

For To-morrow.— Watercress ; Muffins (January 29th). 

Breakfast. — Anchovies and Hard-boiled Eggs (January 18th) ; 
Collared Tongue (January 2nd) ; Milk Toast (June 17th). 

Luncheon. — Ham and Macaroni (April 3rd) ; Custard Sippets 
(June 10 th). 

Dinner. — Herrings and Mustard Sauce (September 15th) ; Fricassee 
of Fowl (July 28th) ; Potato Snow (April 7th) ; General Favourite 
Pudding (May 17th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 



Things that must not be Forgotten- 

1. Turn and rub the beef in the brine. 

2. Preserve any chicken that may be left 



356 



A TEAE'S COOKERY. 



3. Prepare the rice milk (Note 3, June 17tli). 

4. — Quinces come into the market in October. This fruit mixed 
with apples makes a most delicious pie or pudding. It can be pre- 
served as follows : — Peel the fruit and divide into quarters. Weigh it 
and allow three pounds of sugar and a gill of water to five pounds of 
fruit. Put sugar, water, and fruit into pint jars, tie brown paper on 
tlie top, place the jars in boiling water and simmer gently for three 
hours. Let the fruit go cold, tie it down tightly, and mix a portion 
with apples when pies are being made. Quinces thus prepared will 
not keep very long. 



October 14th. 



Breakfast. 


Luncheon. 


Dinner. 


Collared Tong-ue. 


Cliickeu Kromeskies. 


Potato Pm-^e. 


Eggs in Brown Butter. 


Baked Plum Pudding. 


Boiled Rabbits. 


MuSLns. 




Onion Sauce. 


Dry Toast. 




Rasliers of Bacon. 


Watercress. 




Potatoes. 


Eice Milk. 




Cabbage. 
Chocolate Pudding. 






Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— A couple of plump young Ostend Rabbits (January 24th) ; half a 
pound of JJacon in rashers ; Potatoes ; Cabbage ; a cake of French Chocolate ; 
a small plump Leg of INIutton, to be put in piclde for sour mutton ; a quarter 
of a pound of suet. 

For To-morrow.— Three or four Bloaters ; order the muscle of the Leg of Beef 
(January 27th) ; a freshly-killed yoimg Hare may be bought to-day (January 
Sth), and hung in a cool airy place till Sunday week, or any more convenient 
time. 



Breakfast. — Collared Tongue left from yesterday ; Eggs in 
Brown Butter (January 6th) ; Muffins (January 30th) ; Rice j\Iilk 
(June 18th). 

Luncheon.— Chicken Kromeskies, made of the remains of the 
Fricasseed Chicken (July 29th) ; Baked Plum Pudding (February 
25th). 

Dinner. — Potato Pur6e (January 26th); Boiled Rabbits (March 
6th). Onion Sauce. — Take four good-sized onions, peel them, cut 
them into quarters, put them into a saucepan with plenty of cold 
water to cover them, and let them boil gently till quite tender. Take 
them up, drain them well, and chop them small. Boil three-quarters 
of a pint of milk with a thin slice of lemon-rind. Mix a dessert- 
spoonful of flour to a smooth paste with water, add this to the milk, 
and stir the sauce till it boils. Put in the onions, take out the lemon- 
rind, add pepper and salt to taste, and move the saucei3an to the side 
of the fire to keep the sauce hot till it is wanted. If the lemon 
tlavour is objected to, the rind can be omitted, but many people 



A YEARS COOKERY. 



357 



regard it as an improvement. Rolled Bacon (July 19th) ; Potatoes 
Mashed (Mayl2tli); Cabbage (June 4th) ; Chocolate Pudding (July 
24th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Turn and rub the beef in the brine. 

2. Make a pickle (Note 3, March 19th), and put the leg of mutton 
into it. 

3. Preserve any cold rabbit that may be left. Also take care of 
the liquor the rabbits were boUed in. There should be excellent 
stock from the chicken bones and the rabbit liquor. 

4. Put a cupful of hominy to soak all night in cold water. 

5. Keep the bloaters apart from all other food, 

6. Pot the remains of the collared tongue for breakfast to-morrow 
(Note 5, September 26th). 



October 15th 



Breakfast. 


Luncheon. 


Dinner. 


Bloaters on Toast. 

Potted Tongue. 

Hot Buttered Toast. 

Dry Toast. 

Brown and Wliite Bread 

and Butter. 
Honey. 
Boiled Hominy, 


Rabbit Gateau. 

Suet Pudding, with. Jam. 


Victoria Soup. 

Muscle of Beef Stewed with 

Vegetables. 
Potatoes. 
Stone Cream. 
Cheese. 



Marketing. 
For the Day.— Half a pound of firm Kidney Suet ; Potatoes. 
For To-morrow.— Three or four plump Sheep's Kidneys ; half a pound of Bacon 

in rashers ; Rolls for Breakfast (September 3rd) ; order to be sent in three or 

foui' plump young Pigeons, trussed for boiling. 

Breakfast.— Bloaters on Toast (March 24th); Potted Tongue 
made yesterday (September 26th) ; Boiled Hominy (February 11th). 

Luncheon.— Piabbit Gateau (July 9th) ; Suet Pudding, with Jam 
(May 13th). 

Dinner. — Victoria Soup (February 9th) ; Beef a la Jardiniere 
CMarch 17th) ; Potatoes (May 6th) ; Stone Cream (July 1st); Cheese 
(June 8th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Turn and rub the beef in the brine. 

2. Turn and rub the mutton in the pickle. 

3. Put a large cupful of haricot beans to soak all night in cold 
water. 

4. If any hominy is left, preserve it ; if not, soak a tea-cupful in 
cold water. Hominy cake is to be made to-morrow. 



358 



A YEAR'S COOKERY, 



October 16th, 



Breakfast. 


Luncheon. 


Dinner. 


Broiled Kidneys and Bacon. 

Hot Eolls. 

Dry Toast. 

Brown and White Bread 

and Butter. 
Oatmeal Ponridge. 


stewed Pigeons. 
Rice and Cheese. 


Cod's Head and Shonlders. 

Oyster Sauce. 

Eoast Leg of Mutton. 

Haricot Beaus. 

Browned Potatoes. 

Hayinck Puddings. 

Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— About six pounds of Cod's' Head and Shoulders (see Note 4 below) ; 

a tin of Oysters, or a dozen large fresh Oysters ; a Avell-liung Leg of Mutton 

(January 8th) ; Potatoes ; French Beans ; a pennyT\'orth of German Yeast ; 

Pork, rf or fresh sausage (March ISth), or a pound of good Pork Sausages ; 

Quinces ; this fruit mixed with apples makes one of the most delicious of pies. 
For To-morrow.— Watercress; three-pennyworth of Cream for the Bisque Soup. 

Breakfast. — Broiled Kidneys (January 29th) ; Toasted Bacon 
(January 19th); Hot Rolls (September 4th); Porridge (January 25th). 

Luncheon. — Stewed Pigeons (August 4th) ; Boil French^ Beans 
separately, and substitute them for the peas in this recipe. Rice and 
Cheese (February 18th). 

Dinner. — Cod's Head and Shoulders (December 6th). 0>/ster 
Sauce (with fresh oysters). — In opening the oysters, be careful to 
preserve all the liquor. Put this liquor into a saucepan with a third 
of a pint of milk, take off the beards of the oysters, and throw them 
into the liquor. Simmer gently for a little while to draw the flavour 
from the beards, then strain the milk into a basin. ISIelt an ounce 
of butter in a small stew-pan, mix half an ounce of flour smoothly 
with it, stir in the flavoured milk. Keep stirring till the sauce boils, 
then add a tea-spoonful of anchovy sauce. Have ready a stewpan 
with plenty of boiling water in it. Make a metal strainer hot by 
holding it in the water for a minute. Put in the oysters, and let 
them remain in the water for about three seconds. Turn them into 
a very hot sauce tureen, pour the sauce over them, and serve 
immediately. If a table-spoonful of cream may be permitted, the 
sauce will be much richer. Ouster Sauce (with tinned oysters). -;- 
Open the tin, strain off the liquor, and put the oysters on a dish in 
the oven to get hot. Mix the liquor with a quarter of a pint of milk, 
melt two ounces of butter in a saucepan, stir in an ounce of flour, and 
add the milk. When the sauce boils put in a tea-spoonful of anchovy 
sauce and the oysters. Serve in a hot tureen. It is probable that the 
contents of a whole tin will not be required for the sauce. When this 
is the case, half a tin may be used with half the liquor, and scalloped 
oysters (April 27th) for breakfast or luncheon may be made of the 
remainder. If covered entirely with the liquor the oysters will keep 
for a day or two, even though the tin is opened. Roast Leg of 
Mutton (March 4th) ; Haricot Beans (June 20th) ; Browned Potatoes 
(October 18th) ; Hayrick Puddings (March 19th) ; Cheese (June 
8th). 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



359 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Turn and rub tlie mutton in tlie pickle. 

2. Boil the beef that has been in pickle (February 23rd). 

3. Pastry is to be made to-day (April 17th). Apple and Quince 
pies (October 13th) ; also sausage rolls with the trimmings of the 
pastry (November 6th) ; Vienna bread (August 26th), and Ilominy 
6'(//v^— Take a breakfast-cu])ful of boiled hominy, a breakfast-cupful 
of Hour, a pinch of salt, a slice of butter melted, half a tea-spoonful 
of baking powder, and two eggs. Work the mixture with the fingers 
till smooth, put it in a greased mould, and bake in a quick oven. 

4. When the family is moderately large, it is economical to buy a 
large whole cod instead of part of one, then cut off the tail end, salt 
it, and the second day fry it in slices. A whole fish can generally be 
bought for twopence a pound less than the head and shoulders, or 
the middle of the fish. 

5. Boil the remainder of the ham (Note 4, May 27th). 



October 17th. 



Breakfast. 



Devilled Eggs. 

Sausage Rolls. 

Vienna Bread. 

Dry Toast. 

Brown and White Bread 

and Butter. 
Watercress. 
Corn Flour Milk. 



Luncheon. 

Minced Mutton. 
Small Suet Dumplings. 



Dinner. 



Bisque Soup. 

Mutton a la Sauce 

Piquante. 
Potatoes. 

Vegetable Marrow. 
Newcastle Pudding. 
Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— A quarter of a pound of Suet for dumplings ; a moderate-sized 
Crab (August 18th) ; a spoonful of Lobster spawn from the fishmonger ; Pota- 
toes ; Vegetable Marrow. 

For To-morrow.— A pair of Soles (January 3rd) ; a pair of fine Fowls (June 29th) ; 
materials for Forcemeat ; ingredients for Salad (March 13th) ; Potatoes ; 
Celery ; a quarter of a pound of Bacon for Bacon rolls ; IMustard and Cress for 
breakfast ; Tomatoes for Tomato Sauce if liked. 

Breakfast. — Devilled Eggs (February 27th) ; Sausage Eolls 
made yesterday (November 6th) ; Vienna Bread (Augiist 26th) ; Corn 
Flour Milk (June 19th). 

Luncheon. — Minced jMutton (January 20th). Neat slices can be 
cut from the cold leg of mutton for dinner, and the broken remnants 
can be minced for luncheon. Small Suet Dumplings. — Mix th^ 
pudding according to the recipe given (May 13th). Let it be very 
stiff ; divide it into balls about the size of an Qgg. Drop these from 
the point of a fork into fast-boiling water, and boil them about half 
an hour. Serve them with the mutton, or with sugar or jam if 
preferred* 

Dinner. — Bisque Sonp. — Crack the claws of the crab, and take 
out all the meat, tear it into shreds with two forks, and put it aside, 



SCO 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



between two dishes, in a cool place. Pick all the rest of the meat 
from the crab, and put with it half its bulk of rice which has been 
boiled separately for the purpo.se. Pound it well, juit stock or boiling 
water with it to make it of the consistency of ^ery thick cream, and 
1 ub it through a hair sieve. When wanted, make it very hot, but do 
not let it reach the boiling point ; boil the cream ordered yesterday, 
and stir it into the soup, add a spoonful of lobster butter (June 7th), to 
colour the soup, and serve. If lobster butter cannot be had, the soup 
will taste as good as if it were there, but it will not look so well. 
Mutton k la Sauce Piquante (]\Iarch 30th) ; Potatoes, Mashed (May 
12th); Vegetable Marrow (September 3rd); Newcastle Pudding (June 
12th) ; Cheese (June 8tli). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Turn and rub the mutton in the pickle, 

2. Glaze the beef that was boiled yesterday (March 21st). 

3. Pluck the fowls, and hang them in a cool larder ; clean the 
giblets (February 1st), and throw them into boiling water for five 
minutes. Sauce for the birds can be made of them for to-morrow. 

4. Dry the feathers of the poultry (Note, February 28th). 

5. Buy three or four pounds of fresh pork (January 6tli) ; the 
spring or belly piece, or the hand, will be most suitable for the pur- 
pose. Make a brine by dissolving a pound of salt and half an ounce 
of salt prunella, pounded, in a gallon of water. Let this boil for one 
minute, and vdien cold put in the pork. It can be taken out and 
boiled in four days if liked, or if preferred it can remain in the pickle 
for ten days, then be hung up to dry. The brine can be used again 
and again if it is boiled occn,nonally. When a scum is seen on the 
top, it is getting weak, and should be boiled with a little more salt. 
Pork is very good boiled from the pickle. To boil it, see April 25th. 

6. Preserve any fish that may be left. It can be warmed for 
breakfast. 

7. Make custard blancmange for dinner to-morrow (August 4th). 



Sunday, October 18th. 



Breakfast. 


Dinner. 


Tea. 


Supper. 


Scalloped Cod. 


Sole a la Horly. 


Brown and Wnite 


Cold Beef. 


Boiled Ham. 


'J'omato Sauce. 


Bread and Butter. 


Salad. 


Vienna Bread. 


Iloast Fowls. 


Greengage Jam. 


Apple and Quiuca 


Dry Toast. 


Bacon Rolls. 


Hominy Cake. 


Pie. 


Brown and White 


Brown Gravy. 






Bread and Butter. 


Bread Sauce. 






Mustard and Cress. 


Browned Potatoes. 






Bread and Milk. 


Stewed Celery. 
Custard Blano 

mange. 
Lemon Syrup. 








Cheese. 







Breakfast. — Scalloped Cod (January 7th) ; Ham boiled the day 



A TEAR'S COOKERY. 361 



h.efore yesterday (Note 4, May 27th) ; Vienna Bread (August 26th) ; 
Bread and ISIilk (January 25th). 

Dinner. — Sole a la Horiy. — Fish, fowl, and the whiter sorts of 
game are excellent dressed h la Horly. When once the process is 
understood, it is not very difficult, and it possesses this advantage ; 
one sole dressed thus will go as far as a pair of soles dressed in the 
ordinary way. Fillet the sole, and divide the fillets into fingers about 
an inch wide. Squeeze the juice of a large fresh lemon into a plate, 
and put with it a bunch of parsley and a slice of onion, both chopped 
small, and a little pepper and salt. Lay the pieces of fish in this, and 
let them lie for a couple of hours ; turn them about two or three times 
in the marinade. Drain them, and dry them well by rolling them in 
a cloth. Have ready a little frying-batter (July 29th); this will be 
better if it is made two or three hours before it is wanted. Half fill 
a stewpan with clarified dripping (February 19th). Put it on the 
fire, and let it remain till it is so hot that it is quite still, and a blue 
smoke rises from it. Take the pieces of sole one at a time, dip them 
into the batter, take them out with a table-spoon, and turn the fish with 
as much batter as can be held in a spoon into the boiling fat. Let it 
remain for less than a minute, till it is a light golden brown colour. 
Have close at hand a dish covered with blotting-pai)er or kitchen- 
paper, put the fish fried in batter on this to free it from grease, take 
out any little pieces of batter that may remain with a skinimer, and 
finish all the pieces of fish in the same way. Pile on a dish, cover 
with a napkin, and garnish with fried parsley. Tomato Sauce 
(July 15th) is the proper accompaniment to this dish, but it may be 
well dispensed with. Eoast Fowls (June 30th), Broiun (Jravij made 
from Gihlets. — Clean the giblets thoroughly (February 1st), Peel 
and mince finely two small onions ; fry these and the giblets in a slice 
of butter or dripping, and turn them al)0ut till all are brightly 
browned. Put them into a stewpan with a bunch of parsley, a sprig 
of thyme, a bay leaf, a blade of mace, two cloves, eight peppercorns, 
and two or three strips of bacon -rind, scalded and scraped. Pour 
over all rather more than a pint of hot stock or water. Cover closely, 
and stew gently for about an hour and a half. Thicken the gravy 
with a little brown thickening (January 6th); or failing this, by 
stirring into it a dessert-spoonful of corn flour mixed smoothly with 
a little cold water ; add some sugar browning if necessary. Strain 
the gravy, free it from fat, pour a little of it round the birds, and send 
the rest to table in a hot tureen. Bread Sauce. — Prepare some bread- 
crumbs by rubl;)ing stale bread through a wire sieve. Supposing 
there is half a pint of bread-crumbs, put them into about half a pint 
of milk. As much milk is required as the bread will soak up. Cover 
for ten minutes, then put the bread and milk into a saucepan with a 
whole onion skinned and six peppercorns. Stir the sauce over the 
fire till it boils, then add a pinch of salt and about an ounce of 
butter, and stir till the butter is dissolved. Take out the onion and 
peppercorns, add four table-spoonfuls of milk, or cream if it may be 



362 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



permitted, boil once more, and serve. It is a mistake to make this 
sauce very long before it is wanted. Browned Potatoes,. — "Wash and 
peel the potatoes, and partly boil tlieni in the usual Avay (April 7th). 
When they are half cooked, take them up, drain them, and put them 
in the dripping-tin under the meat. Let them remain until they are 
cooked tlu-ough, and equally browned all over. They will take about 
three-quarters of an hour. If it is not convenient to put them under 
the meat, they may be baked in a brisk oven till brown, being basted 
occasionally with dripping. Put them on kitchen paper to free them 
from fat before serving them. Stewed Celery (December 2nd) ; 
Custard Blancmange made yesterday (August 4th) ; Lemon Syrup 
(March 19th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 

Tea.— Hominy Cake (October 16th). 

Supper. — Beef prepared yesterday ; Salad (March 13th) ; Apple 
and Quince Pie made the day before yesterday. 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Turn and rub the mutton in the pickle. 

2. If the legs of the fowls have been left, prepare them for devil- 
ling at breakfast (January 14th). 

3. Be sure to preserve the bones and trimmings of the fowls ; they 
will be a valuable addition to the stock-pot. 



October 19th, 



Breakfast. 




Luncheon. 


Dinner, 


Devilled DrumsticlvS. 




Pressed Beef. 


Croate au Pot. 


Boiled Ham. 




Lettnee Salad, with Toma- 


stewed Steak. 


Vienna Bread. 




toes. 


Mashed Potatoes. 


Dry Toast. 




Stewed Cheese. 


Vegetable Marrow. 


Brovni and Wliite 


Bread 




Apple Pie. 


and Butter. 






Cheese. 


Marmalade. 








Milk Porridge. 









Marketing. 

For the Day.— A fine Lettuce; Onions; a Small Salad; three ripe Tomatoes; 
Potatoes; Vegetable Marrow; three pounds of tender Steak (Marketing, 
January 1st), to be cut evenly and about an inch and a half thick. 

For To-morrow.— Order a Neck of Mutton, not too fat ; Muffins (January 29th) ; 
Sea Biscmts, if not in the house. 

Breakfast. — Devilled Drumsticks (January 14th) ; Ham, served 
yesterday ; Vienna Bread (August 26th) ; Milk Porridge (June 13th). 

Luncheon. — Pressed Beef, served yesterday ; Lettuce Salad with 
Tomatoes (March 13th) : two or three tomatoes are a most excellent 
addition to a salad ; Stewed Cheese (May 5th). 

Dinner.— Croiite au Pot (May 25th) ; Stewed Steak (January 
31st) ; Mashed Potatoes (May 12th) ; Vegetable Marrow (September 
3rd) ; Apple Pie (August 7th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 



A YEARS COOKERY. 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Turn and rub tlie mutton in the pickle. 

2. Preserve any steak tliat may be left ; rissoles or croquettes can 
be made of it for luncheon to-morrow, 

3. IMake a ground rice mould for to-morrow (August Vth). 

4. Cut off all the meat from the ham bone and pot it for brealdast 
(April 15th). 



October 20th. 



Breakfast. 


Luncheon. 


Dinner. 


Boileil Eggs. 


Rissoles. 


Milk Soup. 


Potted Ham. 


Ground Eice Mould. 


Baked Eabbit, witli Bacon, 


Miiflius. 




Potatoes. 


Dry Toast. 




Boiled Onions. 


Brown and Wliite Bread 




Cottage Plum Pudding. 


and Butter. 




Cheese. 


Honey. 






Biscuits and Milk. 







Marketing. 

For the Day.— One or, if required, two fresh young Rabbits ; half a pound of 
Bacon in rashers ; Potatoes ; Onions ; six ounces of firm Beef Suet. 

For To-morrow.— Rolls (September 3rd) ; a dozen fresh Herrings with soft roes 
(August 25th) ; a bottle of Red Currants for the hydropathic pudding ; W^ater- 
cress ; order a fine Ox-tail. 



Breakfast. — Boiled Eggs (January 5th) ; Potted Ham (Apri' 
15th); Muffins (January 30th) ; Biscuits and Milk (June 14th). 

Luncheon. — Rissoles made of the remains of the stewed steak 
(January 6th) ; Ground Rice Mould (i^ugust 7th). 

DiNNEE. — Milk Soup (January 3rd) ; Baked Rabbit, with Bacon 
(July 8th) ; Potato Snow (April 7th) ; Boiled Onions (October 28th) ; 
Cottage Plum Pudding (June 6th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 



Things that must not be Forgotten, 

1. Turn and rub the mutton in the pickle. 

2. Make a hydropathic pudding with the bottled red currants for 
dinner to-morrow (June 16th). 

3. Partially prepare the rice and barley porridge for breakfast to- 
morrow (Note 6, June 15th). 

'1. Pickle the herrings bought this morning (August 20th). 
5, Put a cupful of green lentils to soak all night in cold water. 



364 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



October 21st, 



Breakfast. 


Luncheon. 


Dinner. 


Pickled Herriugs 


stewed Ox-tail. 


Sole an Gratin. 


Potted Ham. 


Jam aud Bread Pudding 


Sour Mutton. 


Hot Rolls. 


(Economical). 


Lentils. 


Dry Toast. 




Maslied Potatoes. 


Brown aud WMte Bread 




Hydi-opathic Pudding. 


and Butter. 




Cheese. 


Watercress; 






Eice aud Barley Porridge. 







Marketing. 

For the Day.— A fine Ox-tail ordered yesterdaj' ; a pair of tLick Soles (January 

3rd) ; Potatoes. 
For To-morrow.— Mustard and Cress for brealcf ast. 

Breakfast. — Fielded Herrings (August 20tli), prepared yes- 
terday ; Potted Ham (April 15tli) ; Hot Rolls (September 4tli) ; 
liice and Barley Porridge (June 15tli). 

Luncheon. — Stewed Ox-tail (May 8tli) ; Jam and Bread Pudding 
(Economical) (February 23rd). 

Dinner.— Sole au Gratin (May 3rd) ; Sour Mutton (^Slarcli 29th); 
j\[ashed Potatoes (May 12tli) ; Lentils (^larch 2nd) ; Hydropathic 
Pudding (June IGth) made yesterday ; Cheese (June 8th). 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Turn the herrings in the vinegar. 

2. Boil the pork that has been in pickle (April 25th). 

3. Preserve the brine in which the pork was pickled. 



October 22nd. 



Breakfast. 


Luncheon. 


Dinner, 


Herrings. 


Scotch Collops. 


Oyster Soup. 


Pickled Pork. 


Macaroni k la Milan aise. 


Cold Mutton. 


Hot Buttered Toast. 




Salad. 


Dry Toast. 




Potato Snow. 


Browu and White Bread 




Apple Fritters. 


and Butter. 




Custard. 


Mustard and Cress. 




Cheese. 


MUk Toast. 







Marketing. 

For the Day.— A pound and a half of Buttock Steak (January 1st) ; half a pound 
of Ivlcicavoni ; a tin of preserved Oysters, or a dozen fresh Oysters ; two 
pounds of tlie Shin of Beef to make stock for clear soup ; ingredients for 
Salad ; Potatoes ; Apples ; two or three ripe Tomatoes ; a fresh Ox-Tongue. 

For To-morrow.— A jar of Anchovy Paste. Pheasants are now in season. 
Like partridges and grouse they are very uncertain in price, but may some- 
times be obtained on reasonable terms. Especially is this the case when they 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 365 



are quite ready for the spit. They should never be cooked Avhcn fresh, 
although the length of time that they should be kept must depend upon 
individual taste. In French kitchens the rule is that the bird is not ready for 
the spit until, having been hung up by the tail, it drops down. In this 
condition it would most likely be considered too far gone for the taste of 
ordinary people. The degree of Irighness which the bird has obtained may 
be discovered by examining the vent. If the bird when sent in is sufficiently 
high it can be cooked to-morrow. If it wants hanging longer it must be kept 
for a few days. 

Breakfast. — Herrings (August 20tli); Pickled Pork, boiled 
yesterday ; Milk Toast (June 17tli). 

Luncheon. — Scotch CoUops (January 9tli). Macaroni a la 
Milanaise (July 22nd). 

Dinner. — Oyster Soup (October 1st) ; Cold Mutton, left yester- 
day ; Salad (March 13th) ; Potato Snow (April 7th). Apple Fritters. 
— Cut the apples into rounds as thin as possible, stamp out the cores, 
pare away the skin, put them in a dish, pour over them a wine- 
glass of brandy, and sprinkle sugar and grated lemon-rind over them. 
Let them lie in this for an hour. HaK hll a good-sized saucepan with 
clarified dripping. Make it quite hot, and when it is still and a blue 
smoke rises from it, dip each slice separately into the batter, take it 
out in a table-spoon, and dip it with the batter that is in the spoon 
with it into the boiling fat. Turn it over lightly with a fork, and 
when the fritter is crisp and lightly browned it is done enough. _ Put 
it on kitchen paper to free it from grease, and fry all the slices in the 
same way. Sift white sugar on, and serve. Peaches, oranges, and 

{)inc-api3les are frequently prepared in the same way, and are excel- 
ent. Peaches are cut into quarters, oranges into halves, and i)ine- 
apples into slices, the skins being removed in every instance before 
the fruit is put into the brandy or liquor. To make Frying Batter 
for fruit fritters, see July 29th ; Custard (August 10th) ; Cheese 
(June 8th). LamVs Siveethreads. — Wash and trim the sweetbreads 
overnight, and boil them gently till firm in stock. To improve their 
taste, boil with them four young onions and half a blade of mace. 
They will take about half-an-hour, or perhaps a little less. Drain 
them well. Thus far they may be prepared overnight. _ In the 
morning flour them, brush them mth Q,gg^ and roll them in bread- 
crumbs seasoned with pepper and salt. Fry three or four rashers 
of bacon very slowly (January 2nd). AVhen done, put them on a hot 
dish, put a piece of butter in the pan with the fat, and fry the sweet- 
breads until browned. Lamb's sweetbreads form a superior breakfast 
dish. 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Partially prepare the rice milk for breakfast to-morrow (Note 
3, June 17th). 

2. Free the ox-tongue from slime (July 13th). 

3. Make stock from tha fresh meat bought this morning (July 30th). 



366 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



October 23rd. 



Breakfast. 

Ajichovy Paste. 

Piclded'Pork. 

Hot Buttered Toast. 

Dry Toast. 

Brown aud Wliite Bread 

and Butter. 
Mannalade. 
Rice :BIilk. 



Luncheon. 

Tripe a la Coutance. 
Rice Pudding. 



Dinner. 

Clear' Soup, witli Savoury 

Custard. 
Eoast Pheasant. 
Brown Gravy. 
Bread Sauce. 
Potato Mould. 
Bed Cabbage. 

General Favourite Pudding. 
Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— One pound and a half of the thin part of Tripe. Thick tripe is 
generally preferred, but it would not answer for the mode of cooking in- 
tended. Half a pound of lean Bacon ; half a pon-nd of lean Beef to clarify the 
soup: aline Ked Cabbage; Potatoes; four-pennyworth of Sponge Biscuits; 
four Mushrooms ; German Yeast. 

For To-morrow.— Watercress. 

Breakfast. — Anchovy Paste, bought yesterday; Pickled Pork, 
served yesterday ; Rice Milk (June 18th). 

Luncheon. — Trijye a la Coutance. —The French artisans' way of 
dressing tripe. Wash the tripe in cold water, put it into a saucepan 
with cold water to cover it, bring it to the boil, then take it out and 
dry it well in a soft cloth. Cut it into pieces two inches wide and 
four inches long, and cut the bacon into thin slices the same size as 
the tripe. INIince finely a shalot, a small onion, and two or three 
sprigs of parsley. Take the tripe and sprinkle pepper and salt, and 
a little of the mince over each slice ; lay a slice of bacon on the top, 
roll the two together, and be careful that the ends are straight and 
even, so that the little rolls can stand on end. Fasten the rolls either 
with twine or with a needle and thread. Put a pint of stock or water 
in a stewpan, wash and scrape a carrot, and cut it into pieces with a 
small onion, and four mushrooms. Stand the tripe round the inside 
of the stewpan, put the vegetables in the middle with two or three 
peppercorns. Bring the liquor to a boil, draw the pan back, and let 
its contents simmer gently for two hours. Take up the tripe and 
strain the gravy. Piub the carrot through a wire-sieve and keep the 

Eulp hot, but do not shake it up, as it will look like red rice when it 
as just fallen. ^lelt an ounce of butter in a small stewpan, mix an 
ounce of flour smoothly with it, and stir it over the fire till it is 
brown. Add the strained stock and stir the sauce till it boils, then 
flavour with a spoonful of ketchup, and a few drops of lemon-juice. 
Place the pieces of tripe round a dish, and pour the sauce round the 
edge. The appearance of this dish is much improved if cooked 
vegetables ;^>re placed in the centre of the tripe. It must be re- 
membered that the twine must not be removed from the rolls as soon 
as they are taken from the stock, or they will fall. When tripe is 
not so nice as usual, it should be rubbed with salt before being boiled 
in cold water. Plain Rice Pudding (February 24th). 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



367 



Dinner. — Clear Soup, with Savoury Custard (July 30tli). Roast 
Pheasant. — Pheasants may be trussed, roasted, and served in the 
same \A'ay as partridges (October 6th), A pheasant would need to 
roast from three-quarters to one hour. Gravy (October 6th) , Bread 
Sauce (October 18th). Potato Mould. — Mash j^otatoes in the usual 
way (May 12th), then press them lightly into a handsome mould that 
has been well buttered inside in every part. Turn the mould out, 
and brown it equally all over either in the oven or before the fire. If 
liked, the mould can have brown bread raspings sprinkled over the 
inside of the mould before the potatoes are put in it. Mashed pota- 
toes may also be pressed with a small mould, then browned before 
being served. Red Cabhage, Stewed. — Excellent served with game 
of all kinds or with fried pork cliops. Cut up a firm moderate- 
sized red cabbage as for piclvling. Wash and drain it, and jmt it in a 
stewpan with a little pepper and salt and two ounces of butter. 
Cover the stewpan closely, and stew the cabbage for two hours 
General Favourite Pudding (May 17th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Wash the tongue quickly in cold water, and put it into the 
brine in which the beef was pickled. 

2. If it can be done, leave the legs of the pheasant untouched and 
prepare them to be devilled for breakfast to-morrow. Pheasant's legs 
are excellent devilled (January 14th). 

3. Pastry is to be made to-day (April 17th): Apple and quince 
pies (August 7th), lemon cheesecakes (August 18th); also soda cake 
(August 14th), and Sally Lunns (Augaist 26th). 

4. Put a cupful of white haricot beans to soak all night in cold 
water. 



October 24th. 



Breakfast. 


Luncheon. 


Dinner. 


Devilled Drumsticks. 


Salmi of Pheasant. 


Baked Hake. 


Savoury Eggs. 


Custard Sippets. 


Brown Butter Sauce. 


Sally Lunns. 




Eibs of Beef, Boned and 


Dry Toast. 




Eolled. 


Browu and WMte Bread 




Haricot Beans. 


and Butter. 




Mashed Poiafoes. 


Watercress. 




Wyvem Puddings. 


Porridge. 




Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— Three or four slices of Hake : the slices to be cut about half au 
inch thick; two ribs of Beef, boned and rolled (September 8th); Celery; 
Potatoes ; Apples. 

For To-morrow.— Four Bloaters ; a tin of Collared Tongue (January 2nd) ; a 
pair of thick Soles ; Potatoes ; Celery ; a pound of Runip Steak to serve with 
the hare ; materials for a Salad ; a quarter of a pound of Beef Suet and two 
ounces of raw lean Ham for forcemeat ; Sardines for Monday. 



368 A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



BreakfA-ST. — Devilled Drumsticks (January 14tli) ; Savoury 
Eggs (January 1st) ; Sally Lunns (June 4th) ; Porridge (January 
25th). 

Luncheon, — Salmi of Pheasant. — Cut the remains of the gamt' 
into very neat pieces, and lay these, free from every particle of skin 
and fat, between two dishes till wanted. Collect all the bones and 
trimmings of the game, and put them, with a bay-leaf and one or two 
strips of bacon-rind, to stew in any gravy that may have been left. 
If there is no gravy, put the bones into ordinary stock, and add some 
strips of bacon-rind, an onion stuck with two cloves, a piece of 
carrot, a smaller piece of turnip, two or three sticks of celery, a 
bunch of parsley, and three peppercorns. Stew till the gravy is 
strong and pleasantly flavoured. Strain it and, if necessary, boil it 
again with a small piece of brown thickening (January 6th), or, 
wanting this, with a tea-spoonful of corn-flour mixecl smoothly 
with cold water and a few drops of browning (January 2nd). ISIake 
the gravy hot, season it Avith salt and pepper if required, put in the 
pieces of game, let them heat gently by the side of the fire, and on no 
account allow them to reach the boiling point. Ten minutes before 
they are to be served put a wine-glassful of good brown sherry or 
Madeira with them. Arrange the birds neatly in the centre of the 
dish, let the sauce boil up, and pour it on them, and garnish with 
crumbs of bread fried in hot fat and drained. Custard Sippets (June 
10th). 

DiNNEPv. — Baked Hake (September 1st) ; Brown Butter Sauce 
(February 12th). Hibs of Beef, Boned and Rolled. — Roast the beef, 
and serve it w^ith gravy in the usual way (j\Iarcli 4th) ; Haricot 
Beans (June 20th); "Mashed Potatoes (May 12th); Wyvern Puddings 
(May 9th) ; Cheese (June Sth). 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Make the aj)ple mould for dinner to-morrow (September 1.5th). 

2. Keep the bloaters apart from all other food. 

3. For convenience the hare may be skinned and emptied to-day. 

4. If any haricot beans are left, they may with advantage be 
.'eserved for the salad to-morrow evening. 

5. Be sure that the ingredients for hare forcemeat are in the house 
(sec recipe, October 2.5th I 



A YEAR'S COOKEEV. 



369 



Sunday, October 25th. 



Breakfast. 


Dinner. 


Tea. 


Supper. 


Bloaters on Toast, 


Soles-Filleted, 


Brown and White 


Cold Beef, Koasted 


Collared Tongue. 


Rolled,and Baked. 


Bread and Butter. 


Yesterday. 


Sally Lunns. 


Maitre d ' Hotel 


Soda Cake. 


Salad. 


Dry Toast. 


Sauce. 


Lemon Cheese- 


Apple and Quince 


Brown and "White 


Jugged Hare, 


cakes. 


Pie. 


Bread and Butter. 


Eed Currant Jelly. 




Cheese. 


Honey. 


Potao MoiUd. 






Corn-Flour Milk. 


Stewed Celery, 
Apple Mould. 
Custard. 








Cheese, 







Breakfast, — Bloaters on Toast rMarcli 24tli) ; Collared Tongue, 
bouglit yesterday (January 2nd) ; Sally Lunns (June 4th) ; Corn- 
flour Milk (June 19th). 

DiNNEE. — Soles — Filleted, Rolled, and Baked (^March 1st); Maitre 
d'Hotel Sauce (May 6th), Jugged Rare. — This is really the best 
way of cooking a hare. Make the hare forcemeat (see recipe given 
below), "Skin and empty the hare, and wipe it inside and out with a 
damp cloth. Cut it into neat pieces about the size of a small egg, and 
turn these about in a frying-pan over the fire with a little dripping 
till they are equally browned all over. Drain them from the fat, 
and put them into a wide-mouthed earthen jar ; pour a glass of 
port upon them, cover the jar closely, and let the hare soak in the 
wine for twenty minutes. Cut the steak, bought yesterday, into very 
thin slices two inches long and an inch and a half wide. Spread a 
little forcemeat upon each slice, roll it neatly, and fasten witli a small 
skewer, ^ Fry the rolls in the fat till they also are brown, then put 
them with the hare. Have ready some good bone stock, strongly 
flavoured with onions. Pour a little of this into the pan in which 
the hare and the pieces of meat were fried, scrape the bottom to 
obtain all the flavour and gravy, pour the stock over the hare, aclding 
more stock to cover it entirely. Throw in six cloves, tAvo bay-leaves, 
an inch of stick cinnamon, tlie juice of half a lemon, and a little pepper 
and salt. Sprinkle a table-spoonful of forcemeat over all. Put the lid 
again on the jar, place it up to its neck in a stewj^an of boiling water, 
and keep the water boiling round it for an hour and a half. Make all 
that remains of the forcemeat into balls the size of marbles. Fry 
them in hot fat, and put them into the jar a few minutes before the 
hare is served. Thicken the gravy with a little arrowroot. Put 
the pieces on a hot dish, i)lace the forcemeat balls round, pour a 
little gravy over the meat, and send the rest to table in a tureen. 
Send red currant jelly as an accompaniment. If more convenient, 
the jar containing the hare can be placed in the oven in a dripping- 
tin filled with boiling water, care being taken to keep up the supply 
of water round the jar. When this plan is adopted the hare will 
need to be cooked two hours and a half instead of one hour and a 

Y 



370 



A YEARS COOKERY. 



half. The jar chosen for this purpose must be of a good size, as it ia 
important that the pieces of hare should not be closely packed, but 
that there should be plenty of room for the gravy to run between the 
pieces of meat. It should have a tightly-fitting cover belonging to it, 
and if this is not at hand, two or three folds of brown paper must be 
tied over it. Where the family is small the beef in this recipe may 
be omitted. It will, however, make the hare go much furtJier, and 
excellent soup can be made of the remains. To make Hare Forcemeat^ 
mince finely a quarter of a pound of beef suet and two ounces of raw 
lean ham. Mix, and add a tea-spoonful of chopped parsley and a 
tea-spoonful of mixed savoury herbs. If dried herbs are used, such 
as are sold in bottles at the grocer's, two tea-spoonfuls will be re- 
quired. Add about two inches of thin lemon-rind, chopped very 
small, five ounces of fine bread-crumbs, and a little pepper and salt. 
Bind the mixture together with the yolks of two eggs. Potato Mould 
(October 23rd) ; Stewed Celery (December 2nd) ; Apple Mould 
(September 15 th), made yesterday ; Custard (August 10th) ; Cheese 
(June 8th). 

Tea. — Soda Cake (August (14th) ; Lemon Cheesecakes (August 
18th). 

SUPPEE. — Beef, served October 24th ; Salad (^larch 13th) ; Apple 
and Quince Pie (August 7th). 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Carefully preserve every bit of the bare that is left ; the 
remnants can he, turned to good purpose to-mr.vrow. 

2. When putting the collared tongue in the larder, lay the slice- 
first cut off on the top. This will keep the meat from getting dry. 



October 26th. 



Breakfast. 

Sardines. 

Collared Tongue. 

Sally Lunns. 

Dry Toast. 

Brown and White Bread and 

Butter. 
MarmaLide. 
Bread and Milk. 



Luncheon. 

Rissoles. 
Hasty Pudding. 



Dinner. 

Hare Soup. 

Fricassee of Chicken . 

Potato Snow. 

Salsify. 

Brown Bread Pudding 

Cheese , 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— One or, if required, two plump Fowls; half a pint of INIushroomg, 
or, failing these, a small tin of Champignons ; Potatoes ; Salsify. This vege- 
table is something like horseradish in appearance, but white. It is sold in 
bundles, and comes into the market in October and remains till May. It ia 
not very well known, although much liked by those who do know it. 

For To-morrow. -A four-pound tir. of Australian Meat. 



A TEAR'S COOKERY. 



371 



Breakfast. — Sardines (January 12th) ; Collared Tongue (January 
2nd) ; Sally Lunns (June 4tli) -, Bread and Milk (January 25tli). 

Luncheon. — Rissoles (January 6th) : made from the remains of 
the cold beef. Hasty Padding (March 30th). 

Dinner. — Hare Soup (January 19th) ; Fricassee of Chicken (July 
28th) ; Potato Snow (April 7th). Boiled Salsify. — Wash the roots 
and brush them gently, and scrape away the outside skin. Cut them 
into three-inch lengths. Lay them in cold w^ater if they are not to 
be cooked immediately. Put them into plenty of boiling water which 
has salt and a little lemon-juice in it, and boil them till tender. They 
will need to boil haK an hour if small and young, and an hour if thick. 
When a fork mil pierce them easily they are done. Drain them, put 
them into a tureen, and serve them with good melted butter (July 
17th), or better still Avith Sauce Blanche (April 25th). Cold boiled 
salsify is very good served as a salad, or the boiled roots may be 
dipped in frying Batter _ (October 22nd), and fiied like apple 
fritters. When prepared in this way they are a very good garnish 
for boiled fish. Brown Bread Pudding (July 20th) ; Cheese (June 
8th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Pot all that remains of the collared tongue for breakfast 
to-morrow (Note 5, September 26th). 

2. Make a rice mould for dinner to-morrow (October 7th). 

3. Put a cupful of hominy to soak all night in cold water. 



October 27th, 



Breakfast. 

Potted Tongue. 

Eggs on the Dish. 

Hot Buttered Toast. 

Dry Toast. 

Brown and White Bread 

and Butter. 
Boiled Hominy. 



Luncheon. 

Savoury Stew of Australian 

Meat. 
Baked Apples. 



Dinner. 

Herrings au Gratin 

Civet of Rabbit. 

Potatoes. 

Spinach. 

Rice Mould with Jam, 

Custard. 

Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— Fresh Herrings (January 3rd). One may be allowed for each 
person, and one over (August 25th). A plump young Rabbit, or two, if 
required (January 24th) ; Potatoes ; Apples ; Spinach. 

For To-morrow.— Half a pound of Bacon; a well-hung Shoulder of Mutton, 
not too fat ; Muffins (January 29th). 



Breakfast. — Potted Tongue (September 26tli); Eggs on the 
Dish (December 7th) ; Boiled Hominy (February 11th). 

Luncheon. — Savoury Hash of AustraUan Meat (February 5th). 



372 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



Use haK of the meat in the tin for this dish. Baked Apples (February 
9th). 

Dinner. — Fresh Herrings an Gratin. — Follow the recipe for 
Mackerel an Gratin (May 2nd), substituting fresh herrings for 
mackerel. Civet of Rabbit (December 8th) ; Potatoes (May 12th) ; 
Spinach (May 10th) ; Rice Mould (October 7tli), made yesterday ; 
Custard (August 10th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Make mock calfs-head mould for breakfast with the remains 
of the Australian mutton (April 20th). 

2. Preserve all that remains of the boiled hominy. 



October 28th. 



Breakfast. 

Mock Calfs-Heaa Mould. 
Toasted Bacon. 

Dry Toast. 

Brown and White Bread 

and Butter. 
Honey. 
Fried Hominy. 



Luncheon. 

EaLbit made hot. 
Cake Pudding. 



Dinner. 

Croflte au Pot. 
Shoulder of Mutton. 
Browned Potatoes. 
Boiled Onions. 
Baked Batter Pudding with 

Jam. 
Cheese. 



Marketing. 

-Shoulder of Mutton, ordered yesterday 



Potatoes ; Onions ; 



For the Day. 

Parsley. 
For To-morrow.— Dried Haddock ; Rolls (September 3rd) ; Watercress, 



Breakfast.— Mock Calf s-Head Mould (April 20th) ; Toasted 
Bacon (January 19th) ; Muffin's (January 3()th) ; Fried Hominy 
(February 12th). 

Luncheon. — Rabbit made hot (November 13th) ; Cake Pudding 
(February 4th). 

Dinner. — Croiite au Pot (May 25th) ; Eoast Shoulder of Mutton 
(December 16tli) ; Browned Potatoes (October 18th). Boiled Onions, 
Onion Sauce (October 14th) is a very usual accompaniment to roast 
shoulder of mutton. Sometimes for a change onions boiled whole 
are served instead. Skin the onions, and j)ut them into a saucepan 
with boiling water to cover them. Put the lid on the pan, and let 
them stew gently till they are tender but not broken. When a 
skewer will pierce them through easily they are done. Lift them out, 
one by one carefully, drain them in a colander, put them on a hot 
dish, sprinkle pepper and salt upon them, and put a small piecer of 
butter upon each just before serving. Baked Batter Pudding with 
Jam (February 5th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 



A YEAKS COOKERY. 



373 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Put haH a pound of Normandy pippins to soak all night in 
cold water. 

2. Kemember that the rabbit bones wdll be a valuable addition 
to the stock-pot. 

3. If any cold potatoes are left they may be preserved for the 
salad to-morrow. 

4 Make a semolina mould for dinner to-morrow (July 23rd). 



October 29th. 



Breakfast. 


Luncheon. 


Dinner. 


Dried Haddock. 


Cold Mutton. 


Boiled Hake. 


Calt's-Hcad Mould. 


Potato Salad. 


Shrimp Sauce. 


Hot Rolls. 


Normandy Pippins. 


BroUed Steak. 


Dry Toast. 




Oyster Sauce. 


Brown and V\Tiite Bread 




Potatoes. 


and Biitter. 




Semolina Mould. 


Watercress. 




Cheese. 


Milk Porridge. 







Marketing. 

For tlie Day.— Three or four pounds of Hake (August 7th) ; a pint of Shrimps, 
or a quarter of a pint of Picked Shrimps ; a sUce of tender Rump Steak, not 
less than an inch thick (Marketing January 22nd) ; a dozen large Oysters, or a 
tin of Oysters ; Potatoes ; Apples ; Parsley. 

For 'To-iaorrow.— Three plump fresh Sheep's Kidneys ; Mustard and Cress ; 
Sea Biscuits, if not in the house. 



Breakfast. — Dried Haddock (January 27th); Calfs-Head Mould 
(April 20th); Hot Rolls (September 4th); Milk Porridge (June 
13th). 

Luncheon. — Cold ]\Iutton, roasted yesterday ; Potato Salad 
(April 12th); Stewed Normandy Pippins (August 16th). 

Dinner. — Boiled Hake. — Boil the hake according to the directions 
given for cod's head and shoulders (December 6th). It, will need to 
boil about eight miiuites to the pound. Shrimp Sauce (January 
30th) ; Broiled Steak (January 22nd) ; Oyster Sauce (October 16th) ; 
Potatoes (May 12th); Semolina Mould (July 23rd) ; Cheese (June 8th). 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Turn and rub the tongue in the pickle. 

2. Preserve any hake that may be left. 

3. Wash a cupful of prunes, and put them to soak in cold water 
all night. 

4. If any little pieces of broiled steak are left pot them for break- 
fast to-morrow (Potted Beef, January 23rd). 



574 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



October 30th 



Breakfast. 

Broiled Sheep's Kidueys (£i 

la Maitre d'Hotel). 
Potted Beef. 
Hot Buttered Toast. 
Dry Toast. 
Mustard and Cress. 
Biscuits and Milk. 



Luncheon. 

Fish Pie. 
Stewed Prunes. 



Dinner. 

Fried Plaice. 
Dutch Sauce. 
Oyster Patties. 
Cui'ried Fowl. 
Boiled Rice. 
Apple Gateau. 
Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— A Thick Plaice (April 21st) ; a plump Fowl, or two Fowls ii 
required ; one dozen large fresh Oysters, for Oyster Patties ; Apples ; Pota- 
toes ; a Bath Chap ; German Yeast. Fowls and'Ducks are cheap now. 

For To-morrow.— Order a well-hung Leg of Mutton (January 8th), and a fine 
Ox-Tail to be sent first thing in the morning. 



Breakfast. — Broiled Sheep's Kidneys (January 29tli); Maitre 
d'Hotel Butter (April 15tli) ; Potted Beef (January 23rd) ; Biscuits 
and Milk (June 14tli). 

Luncheon. — Fish Pie, made of the cold Hake ; see Cod Pie 
(January 2nd) ; Stewed Prunes (February 27th). 

Dinner. — Fried Plaice (April 21st); Dutch Sauce (May 14th). 
Ciirried Fold. — Follow the recipe for Curried Babbit (July 16th), 
substituting a fowl for the rabbit ; Boiled Piice (July 21st) ; Apple 
Gateau (September 24tli) ; Cheese (June 8th). 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Soak and boil the bath chap (Note 1, August 25th), 

2. Partially prepare the rice and barley porridge (Note 6, June 
15th). 

3. Put a cupful of green lentils to soak all night in cold water. 

4. Pastry is to be made to day. Baked Custard Tart (January 
19th) ; Apple and Quince Pies (August 7th and October 13th). 
Oyster Pa«ie5.— Make a little good Puff Paste (April 24th). If 
it is not convenient to make the paste, a dozen small vol au 
vent cases may be bought of the confectioner. These will need 
to be made hot in the oven a few minutes before they are to be 
served, then filled with the prepared oysters, which should also 
be hot. If puff' paste is made at home, roll it out till it is the 
third of an inch thick. Take two round cutters, one two inches and 
a half across, the other an inch and a half across. Dip them into 
flour ; stamp six rounds of the larger size, and press the smaller cutter 
into the centre of each one of these to the depth of the sixth of an 
inch. Ivoll out the trimmings of pastry, and stamp six of the smaller 
rounds ; bake them separately. "When the cases are baked, scoop out 
the centre piece from the large rounds. FiU the vacant place with 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



375 



the prepared oysters, place the smaller rounds on the top to make a 
sort of lid, and serve on a dish covered with a hot napkin. To Fre- 
■nare the Oysters. — Open the shells carefully, and preserve all the 
liquor. Cut off the beards, and put them and the liquor into a stew- 
pan with a quarter of a blade of mace, an inch of thin lemon-rind, a 
grain of white pepper, and a morsel of cayenne. Boil for three or 
four minutes, or till the gravy tastes pleasantly, then strain it, and 
put with it a few drops of lemon-juice. Thicken the liquor with a 
little corn-flour ) cut the bearded oysters into small pieces. Put 
these into the boiling sauce, let them boil for half a minute, let the 
sauce cool a minute, add a table-spoonful of very thick cream, and it is 
ready for use. Teacakes (August 26th) ; and Light Tea-buns (August 
14th), can also be made. 



October 31st. 



Breakfast. 

Ox Eyes. 

Bath Chap. 

Teacakes. 

Dry Toast. 

Brown and White Bread 

and Butter. 
Marmalade. 
Rice aud Barley Porridge. 



Luncheon. 

stewed-Ox Tails. 
Jam and Bread Pudding, 
Economical. 



Dinner. 

Giblet Soup. 

Roast Leg of Mutton. 

Yorkshire Pudding. 

LentUs. 

Mashed Potatoes. 

Apple Fritters. 

Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— One, or if necessary, Iavo fine Ox Tails, ordered yesterday; Leg o/ 
Mutton, ordered yesterday ; Potatoes ; Apples ; Parsley. 

For To-morrow.— Buy one or two sets of Giblets in addition to the Goose Giblets 
sent with the Goose for to-morrow ; a plump young Goose (September 28th) ; 
a pair of thick Soles (January 3rd) ; Apples ; Potatoes ; Onions ; Bottled Red 
Currants for Pudding; four pennyworth of Cream; Sage and Onion for 
Stuffing; materials for a Salad for to-morrow evening; Sardines for 
Monday. 

Breakfast.— Ox-Eyes (June 5th) ; Bath Chap (Note 1, August 
25th) ; Teacakes (February 14th) ; Eice and Barley Porridge (June 
iSth). 

Luncheon.— Stewed Ox-Tail (May 8th); Jam and Bread Pud- 
ding, Economical (February 2.3rd). 

Dinner.— Giblet Soup (February 1st); Eoast Leg of Mutton 
(^March 4th) ; Lentils (March 2nd) ; Yorkshire Pudding (November 
26th) ; ISIashed Potatoes (May 12th) ; Apple Fritters (October 22nd) ; 
Cheese (June 8th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Make the hydropathic pudding for dinner to-morrow (June 



I6th). 



876 A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



2. Pluck the goose ready for to-morrow, and diy the feathers. 
(Note, February 28th). 

3. Partially prepare the rice milk for breakfast to-morrow. (Note 3, 
June 17th). 



FRUITS SUITABLE FOR DESSERT IN OCTOBER. 

Apples : Ribstons, King Pippins, Blenheim Oranges, Orange 
Pippins, &c. ; Grapes, Melons, Medlars, Blackberries, October 
Peaches, Pomegranates, Pomeloes, Plums, Pears, Shaddocks, Cobs, 
Filberts, Walnuts, Hazel Nuts, Crystallised Fruits. 



OCTOBER. 

Tomato Store Sance. — This sauce should be made in October. 
Be sure that the tomatoes are ripe and red, and that they have been 
gathered on a dry day. Put as many as are to be, used into an 
earthern jar, and bake them in a gentle oven till they are soft, then 
rub them through a fine sieve. With every pound of pulp put a 
quart of vinegar, an ounce of salt, and the same of white pepper, 
haK an ounce of cayenne, and half an ounce of finely-minced shalot. 
Mix thoroughly, boil gently till the sauce is as thick as cream, and 
stir frequently to prevent burning, then put it into wide-mouthed 
and perfectly dry bottles, cork it closely, and keep it in a cool airy 
place. Where tomatoes are liked and used to any extent it is best 
to make sauce for home consumptipn. 

Hams, to Cure. — Hams, especially Canadian hams, may now be 
bought at a very cheap rate. These hams are excellent for ordinary 
]inrposes, and it is a good plan to keep one ahvays in the house, 
" in cut," as it is caDed. Siig;u'-cured hams cannot, however, compare 
in flavour with home-cured hams, which are a real delicacy, and 
would prove a welcome addition to any table. The recipe given 
below has been proved again and again year after year with most 
satisfactory results. 

Procure three or four legs of fresli jiorlf, or one leg of porlc if 
liked. Take away the bone which lies on that pai't of the leg which 
has been cut from the loin. This can be very easily removed, and 
should certainly be cut away, as the ham mil keep better without 
it. Weigh the hams, and for each fourteen pounds of meat allow 
half a pound of salt, a quarter of a pound of sugar, a quarter of a 
pound of treacle, one ounce of ground pepper, half an ounce of 
ground allspice, and half an ounce of salt prunella. First rub the 
salt into the meat, and be particularly careful to cover the shank 
bone. Do this for two days. The third and fourth days pour oif 
the brine and carefully preserve it. The fifth day rub in the 
remainder of the dry ingredients. Measure the brine which was 



A YEAKS COOKERY. 



377 



preserved, and boil it witli three times the quantity of water and 
the proportion of treacle. Put the hams rind side downwards into 
a deep earthern pan, and turn and rub them in the pickle every- 
day for five of six weeks, according to their size, but always leave 
tliem in the pan the rind side downwards. Boil the brine three or 
four times during this period. At the end of the time wash the 
hams lightly to free them from the pickle, which has a dark and 
rather unpleasant look, and hang them in a cool airy place to dry. 
They will be ready in about a month. If it is preferred that they 
should be smoked, there is almost sure to be a confectioner or 
provision dealer in the neighbourhood who would let theni hang 
with his own hams for "a consideration" — fourpence or sixpence 
each ham. In many parts they are, however, preferred unsmoked. 
When done wrap each ham in a cotton bag, and hang it in a cool 
airy situation tiU wanted. The same pickle may be used for tongues 
after the hams are finished. 

Hams are best to be cured before the weather is frosty ; and 
anyhow the business should not be undertaken later than February. 
Two or three hams can very well be cured in the same pan if every 
day the position is changed, the top one being put to the bottom. 
For a small family it would be found that hams weighing from ten 
to twelve pounds would prove most profitable. To boil hams, sec 
Note 4, May 2'7th. 



Sunday, November 1st. 



Breakfast. 


Dinner. 


Tea. 


Supper. 


DcTilled Eggs. 


Filleted Soles 


Bro-svn and White 


Cold Mutton. 


B;i.tli Chaj). 


Saiit.'s. 


Bread and Butter, 


Salad. 


Teacakes, 


Brown Butter Sance. 


Damson Jam. 


Baked Custai-d Tart. 


Dry Toast. 


Roast Goose with 


Light Tea-buns, 




Brown and White 


Sage and Onion 






Bread aud Butter. 


Stuffing, 






Eice Milk. 


Brown Gravy, 
Apple Sauce. 
Potato Mould. 
Brussels Spronts. 
Apple and Quince 
Pic. 








Cheese. 







Breakfast, — Devilled Eggs (Februarv 27th) ; Bath Chap (August 
25th) ; Teacakes (February 14th) ; Rice Milk (June 18th), 

Dinner. — Filleted Soles Sautes (January 4th); Brown Butter 
Sauce (February 12th) ; Pioast Goose (September 29th) ; Gravy 
(September 29th) ; Apple Sauce (September 29th) ; Potato Mould 
(October 23rd) ; Brussels Sprouts {see Cabbage, June 4th) ; Apple 
and Quince Pie (August 7th); Cheese (June 8th). 

Tea. — Light Tea buns (August 14tli). 



378 



A YEjLWS cookery. 



Supper. — Cold Mutton roasted yesterday ; Salad (March 13tli) ; 
Baked Custard Tart (January 19tli). 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Before putting the goose away, put together and preserve all 
the gravy, stuffing, &c., that is in the dish ^vith it. 

2. Put a cupful of white haricot beans to soak all night in cold 
water. 



November 2nd. 



Breakfast. 


Luncheon. 


Dinner. 


Sardines. 


Goose Hasli. 


Palestine Soup. 


Mutton Collops. 


Baked Batter Pudding. 


Baked Kabbit with Bacon. 


Teacakes. 




Haricot Beans. 


Dry Toast. 




Potato Snow- 


Brown and Wliite Bread 




Lemon Pudding. 


and Butter. 




Cheese. 


Honey. 






Milk Toast. 







Marketing. 

For the Day.— Three pounds of Jerusalem Artichokes ; a fine Rabbit, or two if 
required ; a pound of Bacon in rashers, half for to-day, and half for to-morrow ; 
six ounces of Suet ; Potatoes ; a Hand of fresh Pork (January 6th). 

For To-morrow.— Watercress. 



Breakfast. — Sardines (January 12th) ; Mutton Collops. If any 
meat still remains on the cold leg of mutton, cut it into neat slices, 
and proceed as directed (October 1st) : the tomatoes may be omitted ; 
Teacakes (February 14th) ; Milk Toast (June 17th). 

Luncheon. — Goose Hash (September 30th) ; Baked Batter Pud- 
ding (February 5th). 

Dinner. — Palestine Soup (December 8th); Baked Rabbit with 
Bacon (July 8th) ; Potato Snow (April 7th) ; Haricot Beans (June 
20th) ; Lemon Pudding (August 12th) ; Cheese (June 8tL). 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Preserve all that remains of the baked rabbit. 

2. Turn and rub the tongue in the brine. 

3. If any haricot beans are left, they may be served with the 
rabbit gateau to-morrow. 

4. Boil the pork brine, and put the hajid of pork into it. 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



379 



November 3rd. 



Breakfast. 


Luncheon. 


Dinner. 


Poached Eggs. 

Bacon. 

Hot Buttered Toast. 

Dry Toast. 

Brown and WMte Bread 

and Butter. 
Watercress. 
Oatmeal Porridge. 


Eabbit Gateau. 
Haricot Beans. 
Kice and Cheese. 


Sole au Gratin. 

Beef Stewed witli Onions. 

Baked Potatoes. 

Nottingham Pudding. 

Cheese. 



Marketing. 



For the Day.— A pair of thick Soles (January 3rd) ; two'poimds of tender lean 
Steak (January 1st) ; Apples ; Potatoes ; Unions ; a dozen fi-esh Herrings. 

For To-morrow.— Order half a fresh Ox-Kidney to be sent in good time in the 
morning; Mustard and Cress; Muffins (January 29th). 



Breakfast. — Poached Eggs (February 6tli); Bacon (January 
19th) ; Porridge (January 25th). 

Luncheon. — Rabbit Gateau (July 9th), made of the cold rabbit ; 
Haricot Beans (Note 3, November 2nd) ; Rice and Cheese (February 
18th). 

Dinner. — Sole au Gratin (j\Iay 3rd). BeefSteived ivith Onions. — 
Rub the inside of a stewpan with good dripping. Pepper the steak, 
and salt it lightly. Lay it in the pan, and with it four large Spanish 
onions cut into thin slices. Cover the saucepan closely, place it at 
the side of the fire, and let it simmer gently for two hours. Put the 
steak on a dish, place the onions upon it, and pour the gravy over 
all. It will be found that the onions will yield sufficient gravy, so 
that there will be no occasion to put any sauce in the pan. _ Those 
who are very partial to the flavour of onions wdll like this dish; 
others had better avoid it. Baked Potatoes (May 4th). Nottingham 
Pudding. — Make a little good batter {see Toad in the Hole, January 
15th). Peel and core haK a dozen good baking apples. Fill the 
hollow in the middle Avith sugar, and sprinkle powdered cinnamon or 
nutmeg on the top. Place the apples in a buttered dish, pour the 
batter round them, and bake in a good oven. Cheese (June 8th). 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. The batter ^\dll be better if made some hours before it is 
wanted. 

2. Pickle the fresh herrings bought this morning (August 20th). 

3. Preserve any beef that may be left. 

4 Turn and rub the ox-tongue in the brine. 



380 



A YEAIVS COOKERY. 



November 4th, 



Breakfast. 


Luncheon. 


Dinner. 


Pickled Hen-ings. 

Buttered Eggs. 

Muffins. 

Dry Toast. 

Brown and White Bread 

and Butter, 
Mustard and Cress. 
Bread and Milk. 


Shepherd's Pie. 
Baked Omelet. 


Kidney Soup. 

Loin of Mutton, Stuffed and 

Eolled. 
BoUed Parsnips. 
Potatoes. 
Rice Gateau. 
Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— Half an Ox- Kidney, ordered yesterday ; about four pounds of the 
best end of a Loin of Mutton. The butcher should be asked to bone the joint. 
Parsnips : Potatoes ; Parsley, 

For To-morrow.— A tin of Potted Grouse (January 7th). 



Beeakfast. — Pickled Herrings (August 20tli) ; Buttered Eggs 
(January 16tli) ; Muffins (January 30th) ; Bread and Milk (January 
25tli). 

Luncheon. — Shepherd's Pie (January 12th) ; Baked Omelet 
(August 6 th). 

DiNNEii. — Kidney Soup (February 27th) ; Loin of Mutton, Stuffed 
and Rolled (April 22nd) ; Boiled Parsnips (September 30th). Potato 
Croquettes. — This is an excellent and tasteful way of serving potatoes. 
Take as many potatoes as are likely to be required, wash, scrub, 
and peel them. Supposing there is one pound of potatoes, boil 
them in the usual way (April 7th), and rub them whilst hot through 
a wire sieve. ]Melt half an ounce of butter in a stewpan, put in a 
dessert-spoonful of milk, and add the sifted potato. j\Iix smoothly 
over the fire, then put the stew[)an on one side, and add the 
yolk of a fresh Qgg lightly beaten, a table-spoonful of chopped 
parsley, and a little pe])per and salt. Spread the mixture on a 
plate, and let it stand till cold. Half fill a deep stewpan w^ith 
clarified dripping, and put it on the fire to boil ; it is boiling when it 
has ceased bubbling, is quite still, and a blue smoke rises from it. 
Form the potato mixture into balls, brush them over mth the white 
of the egg which has been beaten on a plate, and roll them in finely- 
sifted bread-crumbs. Put them in a frying-basket, plunge them into 
the hot fat, and let them remain till they are brightly browned. 
They will be done in about two minutes. _ Arrange them on a dish, 
cover Avith a hot napkin, and garnish with fried parsley (January 
13th). Sometimes a little flour is taken in the hands to help to form 
the croquettes. This should be done very sparingly, or the croquettes 
will burst in frying. Eice Gateau (October 3rd) ; Cheese (June 8th) 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Turn the herrings over in the vinegar. 

2. Turn and rub the ox-tongue. 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



a?l 



November 5th 



Breakfast. 


Luncheon. 


Dinner, 


Potted Gi-onse. 


Minced Mutton with 


Baked Hake. 


Pickled Herrings. 


Po;ielied Eggs. 


Anchovy Sauce. 


Hot Buttered Toast. 


Cauliflower au Gratin, 


Eump Steak and 


Diy Toast. 




Pie 


Brown and White Bread 




Mashed Potatoes. 


and Butter. 




Macaroni Pudding. 


Marmalade. 




Cheese. 


Corn-Flour Milk. 







Oyster 



Marketing. 



For the Day.— Two pounds of Riimp or Buttock Steak (January 1st) ; half an 

Ox-Kidney ; a tin of preserved Oysters ; six ounces of Macaroni ; Potatoes ; 

Cauliflowers. Late Autumn Cauliflowers last till they are cut oflF by frost, 

then their place is taken by White Broccoli. 
For To-morrow.— A well-hung Neck of Mutton, not too fat ; Rolls (September 

3rd). Order a Fore-loin of small freshly-killed Pork. 



Breakfast. — Potted Grouse (January Vtli) ; Pickled Herrings 
(August 20tli) ; Corn-Flour Milk (June 19th). 

Luncheon. — Minced Mutton (January 20th); Cauliflower au 
Gratin- (April 25th). 

Dinner. — Baked Hake (September' 1st) ; Anchovy Sauce (July 
17th); Beef Steak and Oyster Pie (March 26th). A little rough 
Puff Pastry (May 29th) may be made specially for this pie ; half 
the. tin of oysters will probably be sufficient for the pie. Mashed 
Potatoes (May 12th); Macaroni Pudding (March 27th); Cheese (June 
8th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Soak a large cupful of hominy in cold water. 

2. If any herrings are still left turn them over in the vinegar. 

3. In the north of England, Parkin is made for the Fifth of 
November, "Bon-fire JSTight." Very good Parkin may be made as 
follows : — Mix half an ounce of ginger and half a pound of sugar ^^ith 
four pounds of fine oatmeal • rub a pound of butter into this and 
add about two ounces of canclied lemon finely chopped. Warm some 
treacle in a jar and stir this into the oatmeal to make a stiff paste. 
Put the preparation into greased patty pans and bake in a very slow 
oven. If liked, a little milk can be mixed with the warmed treacle. 
Keep the cakes in a tin box excluded from the air. Superior Parkin, 
called Oldham Farlin, is made as follows : — Mix together in a bowl 
three and a half pounds of flour and two pounds of oatmeal. Hub 
into this two pounds of butter, and add two pounds of sugar, two 
ounces of ginger, an ounce of ground mace, six ounces of candied 
lemon finely chopped, a small nutmeg grated, and a table-spoonful of 
carbonate of soda. ISIix thoroughly. Warm three pounds and a half 



382 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



of treacle slightly; stir a gill of cream into it, and add the dry 
ingredients. Leave the mixture to stand all night. Put it into a 
well-buttered dripping-tin, let it rise before the fire for awhile, then 
bake in a moderate oven. This Parkin will improve with keeping for 
three or four weeks. 



November 6th. 



Breakfast. 




Luncheon. 


Dinner. 


Potted Grouse. 




The Sera? of the Neck of 


Cr^cy Soup. 


Scalloped Oysters. 




Mutton stewed with Vege- 


Mutton Chops with Sauce 


Hot RoUs. 




tables. 


Piquante. 


Dry Toast. 




Sweet Macaroni. 


Carrots and Turnips. 


Brown and White 


Bread 




Mashed Potatoes. 


and Butter. 






Stone Cream. 


Honey. 

Boiled Hominy. 






Cheese. 









Marketing. 

For the Day.— The Neck of Mutton ordered yesterday ; the Fore-loin of Pork 

ordered yesterday— half of this is for Sausages to make Sausage Rolls. 
For To-morrow.— A pint of Shrimps to be potted for breakfast ; Watercress. 



Breakfast. — Potted Grouse (January 7th) ; Scalloped Oysters, 
made of the oysters left in the tin after making the Beef Steak 
Pie (April 27th) ; Hot Bolls (September 4th) ; Boiled Hominy (Feb- 
ruary 11th). 

Luncheon. — Scrag of Mutton stewed with vegetables (January 
14th) ; Sweet Macaroni (August 13th). 

Dinner. — Cr^cy Soup (January 5th) ; Mutton Chops with Sauce 
Piquante (April 30th) ; Carrots (July 6th) ; Mashed Turnips (Sep- 
tember 30th) ; Stone Cream (July 1st) ; Cheese (June 8th). 



Things that must not be Forgotten, 

1. Preserve any hominy that may be left. It can be fi'ied for 
breakfast to-morrow. 

2. Marinade for Porh. — Cut about four pounds from the best end 
of the loin of pork. Bub an earthen pan twice across with garlic. 
Put into it a shalot finely minced, a table -spoonful of chopped 
parsley, six peppercorns, a dessert-spoonful of salt, and a quarter of a 
pint of salad oil. Bub the mixture well into every part of the pork, 
lay the meat in the pickle, cover the pan, and leave it for two days. 

3. Make sausages of the remainder of the loin of pork (March 
18th). If the sauaages which are wanted for sausage roUs can be 
procured of a respectable dealer, this business can be omitted. 

4. Pastry is to be made to-day (April 17th). Jam Tarts (August 
7th) ; Lemon Cheese-cakes (August 18th). Sausage Rolls. — Boll the 
pastry to the thickness of one-eighth of an inch, and cut it into pieces 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



3>$3 



BIX inclies square. Plunge the fresh sausages into fast-boiling water, 
let them boil a few minutes, then remove the skins, slit them in halves 
lengthwise, and lay a half in the centre of each square. Fold the paste 
over the roll, join it neatly in the centre, and press the ends of the 
paste together. Place the rolls on a greased baking-tin, brush them 
over with egg, and bake them in a well-heated oven. Bake for about 
a quarter of an hour. Sausage rolls can be made of cooked or un- 
cooked meat, or tinned meat finely minced, nicely seasoned with 
pepper and salt, and flavoured with a small onion and a pinch of 
chopped sage-leaves to half a pound of meat. When they are made of 
uncooked meat the rolls will need to be baked longer than when 
cooked meat is used. Teacakes (August 26th) and light tea-buns 
(August 14tb) may also be made. 



November 7th. 



Breakfast. 

Eggs in Brown Butter. 

Sausage Eolls, 

Teacakes. 

Dry Toast. 

Brown and White Bread 

and Butter. 
Marmalade. 
Fried Hominy. 



Luncheon. 

Toad in the Hole. 
Eice with Apples and Beet- 
root, 



Dinner. 

Croflte au Pot. 
Curried Eabbit. 
Eice. 

Scorzonera. 
Pancakes. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— A pound and a half of Steak, or the short bone of Mutton. (If 
any meat were left yesterday it can be used, and this need not be bought.) A 
fine j^oung Rabbit, or two if required (January 24th) ; Apples ; Potatoes ; 
Beetroot; Scorzonera. These roots are in season at the same time that 
Salsify is— that is, from October to May. They are for all practical purposes the 
same thing, and have the same taste, but Scorzonera is black and Salsify is 
white. Neither of the two is to be had at all times ; but when they are, they 
wUl be foimd excellent and delicate in flavour. 

For To-morrow.— Three or four Bloaters (January 2nd) ; a large thick Sole, 
fiheted (January 3rd) ; a pint of Chestnuts ; three pounds of Brussels Sprouts ; 
Potatoes ; a quarter of a pound of French Chocolate ; a tin of Prawns for 
Monday. 



Beeakfast. — Eggs in Brown Butter (January 6th); Sausage 
Bolls (November 6th); Teacakes (February 14th); Fried Hominy 
(February 12th). 

Luncheon. — Toad in the Hole (January 15th) ; Bice with Apples 
and Beetroot (January 28th). 

DiNNEE. — Crotite au Pot (May 25th); Curried Babbit (July 
16th)-; Boiled Bice (July 21st) ; Scorzonera— follow the recipe given 
for Salsify (October 26th) ; Pancakes (February 24th) ; Cheese (June 
8th). 



384 



A YEAE'S COOKERY. 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Turn and mb the loin of pork. 

2. Make a ground rice mould (August Vtli) for supper to-morrow 
night. 

3. Keep the bloaters apart from all other food. 

4. Turn the ox-tongue in the pickle. 



Sunday, November 8th. 



Breakfast. 


Dinner. 


Tea. 


Supper. 


Bloaters ou Toast. 


Sole k la Horly. 


Brown and White 


Cold Pork. 


Sausage Eolls. 


Pork, cooked in the 


Bread and Butter. 


Lemon Cheeso^ 


Teacakes, 


French way. 


Teacakes. 


cakes. 


Erowii and White 


Potato Mould. 


Strawberry Jam. 


Jam Tarts. 


Bread and Butter. 


Chestnuts^and Brus- 


Light Bans, 


Ground Eice Mould. 


Milk PoiTidge. 


sels Sprouts. 
Chocolate Pudding. 
Custard. 








Cheese. 







Breakfast. — Bloaters on Toast (]\Iarch 24th) ; Sausage Rolls 
(November 6th) ; Teacakes (February 14th) ; Milk Porridge (June 
13th). 

Dinner. — Sole h, la Horly (October 18tli). Porh, cooked in the 
French ivay. — Take the loin of pork out of the marinade in which 
it has been lying since November 6th. Put it to the fire and roast 
it well, basting it frequently, and during the last half-hour with the 
oil in which it was marinaded. Serve it on a hot dish with brown 
gravy round it, and with a sauce made as follows in a tureen : — Chop 
small an apple and a moderate-sized onion ; fry them in butter till 
they are tender, then crush them to pulp, mix a tea-cupful of stock 
with them, and add a little salt and cayenne, a spoonful of mustard, 
a spoonful of sugar, and the juice of a lemon. Stir the sauce over the 
fire till it boils, add a spoonful of cognac if liked, and serve. Potato 
Mould (October 23rd). Chestnuts and Brussels Sjyjrmfs. — Peel the 
outer skin from the chestnuts, put them into boiling water for a few 
minutes, throw them into cold water, and remove the second skin. 
Wipe them dry, put them into a saucepan, pour over them good stock 
to cover them, and stew them gently till they are tender without 
being at all broken. The time they will take will vary from twenty 
minutes to three-quarters of an hour, according to their quality, ^ A 
bay-leaf, two or three strips of bacon-rind, and an inch of lemon-rind, 
with pepper and salt, should be added to the gravy in which they are 
stewed. Take out the chestnuts, strain the gra^7■, and thicken it with 
brown thickening or corn-flour (January 6th). It ought to be like 
very thick cream. Free it from fat, and add a few drops of broT\aiing 
(January 2nd) if necessary. Have some Brussels Sprouts boiled 
Beparately in the usual way (June 4th) ; chain them well, put them 



A YEARS COOKERY, 



385 



and the boiled chestnuts into the sauce, heat gently, and serve 
together in a hot vegetable tureen. This dish is seldom seen, though 
it is exceedingly popular with all who have tried it. Chocolate 
Pudding (July 24th) -Custard (August 10th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 
Tea. — Teacakes (February 14th) ; Light Buns (August 14th), 
Supper. — Lemon Cheesecakes (August 18th); Jam Tarts (August 
7th) ; Ground Rice Mould (August 7th). 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. The fat in which the sole is fried must be so hot that it is still 
when the fish is put into it. 

2. Put the pork on a clean dish as soon as it leaves the table. 

3. Turn the ox-tongue in the pickle. 



November 9th, 



Breakfast. 

Prawns. 

Boiled Eggs. 

Teacakes. 

Dry Toast. 

Brown and White Bread 

and Butter. 
Marmalade. 
Biscuits and Milk. 



Luncheon. 

Minced Pork. 
Savoury Eice. 



Dinner. 

Mullagatawny Soup. 

Boiled Neck of Mutton, 

Maitre d'Hotel Sauce. 

Mashed Potato^jti'. 

Carrots. 

Turnips. 

Boiled Batter Pudding, 

Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— A well-hung good-sized Neck of Mutton, not too fat (February 

5th) ; Potatoes ; Carrots ; Turnips ; Parsley. 
For To-morrow.— Bloaters. Allow one for each person. 

Breakfast, — Prawns (February 7th) ; Boiled Eggs (January 5th) ; 
Teacakes (February 14th) ; Biscuits and Milk (June 14th), 

Luncheon. — Minced Pork (April 20th) ; Savoury Rice (June 
17th). 

Dinner. — Mullagatawny Soup (January 16th) ; Boiled Neck of 
Mutton (February 23rd) — the best end only to be used ; Maitre d'Hotel 
Sauce (May 6th) ; Mashed Potatoes (May 12th) ; Carrots (July 6th) ; 
Turnips (September 30th); Boiled Batter Pudding (May 18th) j 
Cheese (June 8th), 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Partially prepare the rice and barley porridge for breakfast to- 
morrow (Note 6, June 15th). 

2. Keep the bloaters apart from all other food. 

3. Put a cupful of green lentils to soak all night in cold water. 

4. Turn the ox-tongue in the pickle. 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



November lOth 



Breakfast. 



Bloaters. 

Devilled Eggs. 

Teacakes. 

Dry Toast. 

Brown and "WTiite Bread 

and Butter. 
Honey. 
Eice and Barley Porridge. 



Luncheon. 

Scrag-end of Mutton boiled 

■with Rice. 
Custai-d Sippets. 



Dinner. 

Fried Sprats. 

Eoast Sirloin of Beef. 

Lentils. 

Potato Motdd. 

Salsify. 

Apple Custard. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— Fresh Sprats. The brighter and more silvery-looking they are, 
the fresher thej^ will bo. Sprats are supposed to come in on Lord IMayor's Day. 
They are at their best in November and December. A Sirloin of Beef (INIarch 
7th) ; Potatoes ; Apples ; Onions ; Salsify. Buy a little more than is Ukely to 
be wanted for to-day's dinner. 

For To-morrow.— A Cow-IIeel from the tripe-shop. 



Breakfast. — Bloaters (January 3rd) ; Devilled Eggs (February 
27tli) ; Teacakes (February 14tli) ; Ptice and Barley Porridge 
(June .15tli). 

Luncheon. — Boil with rice the scrag-end of the Mutton cooked 
yesterday (February 21st) ; Custard Sippets (June 10th). 

Dinner. — Fried Sprats. — Half fill a saucepan with frying-fat 
(February 19th). Put it on the fire to boil. ]\Ieantime wash the 
sprats quickly, lift them out of the water with the fingers and lay 
them on a sieve to drain. Put a cupful of flour into a cloth, throw 
the sprats into it, a few at a time, and shake the corners of the cloth 
so as to toss the sprats in the flour without handling them. Put a 
few at a time into a frying basket, and when the fat is so hot that it 
is still., fry as directed (January 17th), In less than two minutes, when 
they are lightly browned, they will done enough. Dry on paper and 
serve very hot. This is the best way of cooking sprats. They may 
also be broiled or j^icUed like herrings (August 20th). To Broil Sprats, 
run a long wire through the heads, dredge the fish with flour, put 
them on a gridiron that has been rubbed with mutton-fat, and broil 
them o^er a clear fire. Roast Sirloin of Beef (March 4th or 
March 8th) ; Lentils (March 2nd) ; Potato Mould (October 23rd) ; 
Salsify (October 26th). Apple Custard. — Pare, core, and cut in 
slices six or eight large apples. Put them into a stew-pan mth 
a very little cold water, cover them, and stew them to pulp. 
Put with them a table-spoonful of preserved quince {see Note 4, 
October 13th), or, wanting this, a tea-spoonful of grated lemon- 
rind, and add sugar to taste. Let the mixture get cold ; pour 
over it a pint of custard (August 10th), grate nutmeg on the top, 
and bake in a gentle oven. When the custard is set the pudding is 
done enough. . It will be better cold than hot. Cheese (June 8th), 



A YEARS COOKERY. 387 



Tilings that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Boil the shoulder of pork that has been in pickle (Note 2, 
April 25th). 

2. Put the beef on a clean dish as soon as it leaves the table, and 
preserve any red gravy that may be in the dish. 

3. Preserve any salsify that may be left. It can be fried in batter 
(July 29th) and used to garnish the boiled cod to-morrow. It will 
be a great improvement. 

4. Put a cupful of white haricot beans to soak all night in cold 
water. 

5. Turn the ox- tongue in the pickle. 



Breakfast. 

Prawns. 

Pickled Pork. 

Hot Buttered Toast. 

Di-y Toast. 

Brown and White Bread 

and Butter. 
Marmalade. 
Milk Toast. 



November Nth. 

I 



Luncheon. 1 Dinner. 



Cow-Heel with Parsley i Boiled Cod. 



Sauce. 
Ciu-rant Dumplings 



Salsify. 
Oyster Sauce. 
Beef Hash. 

Mashed Potatoes. 
Haricot Beans. 
Town Pudding. 
Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— Half a pound of good Beef Suet ; three or four pounds from the 
middle of a Cod, or from six to eight nounds of the head and shoulders ; a 
dozen large Oysters, or a tin of Preserved Oysters ; Potatoes ; Apples ; Parsley. 

For To-morrow.— Mustard and Cress for Breakfast. 

Breakfast. — Prawns (served November 9th) ; Pickled Pork (April 
25th), boiled yesterday. Milk Toast (June 17th). 

LuNCiiEOX. — Cow Heel with Parsley (February 20th). Currant 
Dumplings. — Make the inixture as for baked plum pudding (February 
25th). Divide it into pieces the size of an egg, and without laying 
them in a cloth drop them into fast-boiling water. Boil quickly for 
about half an hour, and move them about at first to keep them from 
sticking to the bottom. Sift sugar over and serve with lemon-juice. 
Of course, if preferred, the mixture can be boiled all together in a cloth, 
but in that case it will need to boil much longer. 

Dinner. — Boiled Cod (December 6th); Fried Salsify (October 
26th); Frying Batter (July 29th); Oyster Sauce (October 16th). 
Beef Hash, Economical. — Cut the beef into rather thin slices ; lay 
these in a saucepan and pour the meat gravy, or, wanting this, a little 
nicely-flavoured stock, upon them ; there should not be enough gravy 
to cover the meat. Add a small piece of butter rolled in flour, and 
simmer very gently for about half an hour, or until the meat is hot 
through. It must on no account boil Serve on a hot dish with the 
gravy poured over. The flavour of the dish may be varied by 



S88 



A YEARS COOKER 7. 



sprinkling a little minced pickle over the meat in the saucepan. The 
majority of people would perhaps prefer to have beef, especially when 
it has been properly carved, served cold with pickles and salad, rather 
than to have it warmed in this or any other way. There are others, 
and especially children, who have a very decided objection to cold 
meat, and this is a convenient and excellent though homely way of 
warming it up. Mashed Potatoes (May 12th) ; Haricot Beans (June 
20th) ; Town Pudding (December 3rd) ; Cheese (June 8th). 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Preserve the liquor in which the cod was boiled. 

2. If any fish is left, pick the flesh from the bones and make fish- 
cakes for breakfast (January 13th). 

3. Partially prepare the rice-milk for breakfast (Note 3, June ITth). 

4. Turn the ox-tongue in the pickle. 



November 12th. 



Breakfast. 


Luncheon. 


Dinner. 


Fish Cakes. 


Rissoles. 


Lobster Soup. 


Pickled Pork. 


Baked Omelet. 


Boiled Rabbit. 


Hot Buttered Toast. 




Onion Sauce. 


Dry Toast. 




Bacon Rolls. 


Brown and WTiite Bread 




Mashed Potatoes. 


and Butter. 




Stewed Celery. 


M\Tstard and Cress. 




Hayi-ick Puddings. 


Rice Milk. 




Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— A small fresh Lobster or a tin of Preserved Lobster ; a pair of 
plump, fresh, yomig Rabbits, trussed for boiling (January 24th) ; a pound of 
streaky Bacon in rashers, half for to-day and half for to-morrow ; Potatoes ; 
Onions ; Celery. Jelly is to be made for supper on Svmday night. If it is to 
be made of calf 's-feet stock, the feet must be bought and stewed to-day. If 
gelatine is to be used, Saturday will be early enough to think about it. Ex- 
cepting for the use of invalids, jelly is not often made of stock. The recipe 
for making calf's-feet stock is given under Jelly (November lith). 

For To-morrow.— A quart of fresh Shrimps, to be potted for breakfast ; a fine 
plump Capon ; Watercress. Buy a freshly-kiUed Hare and hang it (January 
8th). It is intended for dinner on Sunday week. 

Breakfast.— Fish Cakes (January 13th); Pickled Pork (April 
25th) served yesterday ; Rice Milk (June 18th). 

Luncheon. — Rissoles. After slices have been cut from the beef 
tor the hash, it will be found that a quantity of broken meat can 
still be cut from the bones, and this can be made into croquettes or 
rissoles (January 6th). Baked Omelet (August 6th). 

Dinner. — Lobster Soup (May 20th) ; Boiled Rabbits (March 6th): 
Onion Sauce (October 14th) ; Bacon Rolls (July 19th) ; Mashed 
Potatoes (]\Iay 12th) ; Stewed Celery (December 2nd) ; Hayrick 
Puddings (March 19th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



389 



Things that must not bo Forgotten. 

1. Carefully preserve the liquor in which the rabbits were boiled 

2. Break up the beef bone and stew it for stock (February 13th). 
Remember also to render down any fat that may be left. 

3. As soon as the rabbit leaves the table, divide it into joints, put 
these into an earthen jar, cover them with the sauce, and set the jar 
in a cool place. 

4. Potted Shrimps. — Shell the shrimps, put them in a dish, 
sprinkle a tea-spoonful of white pepper and a pinch of salt over 
them, and place little pieces of butter here and there on them. Put 
them in the oven till they are hot, but not dry. Press them into 
jars, and when cold cover them wdth clarified butter. If preferred, 
they can be pounded in a mortar, but they are very good done in this 
way. 

5. Turn the ox-tongue in the pickle. 



November 13th. 



Breakfast. 


Luncheon, 


Dinner. 


Potted Shrimps. 


Rabbit made hot. 


Palestine Soup. 


Pickled Pork. 


Apple Balls. 


Capon, Stivffed and Roasted. 


Hot Buttered Toast. 




Brown Gravy. 


Dry Toast. 




Bread Sauce. 


Brown and White Bread 




Potato Snow. 


and Butter. 




Brussels Sprouts. 


Watercress. 




Guest's Pudding. 


Porridge. 




Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— Half a pound of chopped Suet ; three poimds of Jerusalem 
Artichokes ; Potatoes ; Brussels Sprouts ; Apples ; half a Pig's Head, and 
two Pig's Feet for brawn. If liked, the cheek can be cut away and pickled 
separately (Marketing, January 7th), or it may be put with the brawn, to 
which it will be a valuable addition. FoTir plump young Pigeons; and a 
pound and a half of tender Steak for the pigeon pie (May loth). 

For To-morrow.— Watercress. 

Breakfast. — Potted Shrimps, prepared yesterday (Note 4, 
November 12th) ; Pickled Pork (April 25th), boiled November 10th ; 
Porridge (January 25th). 

Luncheon. — Rahhit made Hot in the Sauce. — Cut the rabbit into 
neat pieces, put them into an earthen jar, and pour over them sauce 
or gravy that is left, to moisten them. Cover the jar closely, and 
put it into a large saucepan of boiling water. Keep the water boil- 
ing round it till the meat and sauce are quite hot, then put it on a 
dish, pour the sauce over, and serve. Poultry, game, or meat warmed 
in this way is almost as good as when freshly cooked. It is best for 
the rabbit or bird to be cut into joints and placed in the jar with 
the sauce whilst still warm, but it may also be done when it is cold 
Apple Balls (March 7th). 



390 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



Dinner. — Palestine Soup (December 8th) ; Capon, Stuffed and 
Roasted. — Proceed in all respects as for a fovyl stuffed and roasted, 
but allow a longer time for roasting (June 30th). Bro^m Gravy 
(October 18th) ; Bread Sauce (October 18th) ; Potato Snow (April 
7th) j Brussels Sprouts {see Cabbage, June 4th) ; Guest's Pudding 
(April 14th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Boil and roll the ox-tongue (July 27th). 

2. Boil the brine in which the tongue was pickled, and leave it to 
get cold. 

3. Follow the directions given in Notes 1 and 2, January 7tL 

4. Pastry (April 17th) is to be made to-day ; Pigeon Pie (May 
15th) for breakfast to-morrow; Apple Balls (March 7th) may be made 
with the trimmings of the pastry ; also make Scones (August 26th) 
and Soda Cake (August 14th). 

5. If the legs of the capon were left untouched, prepare them for 
devilling for breakfast to-morrow (January 14th). If they are not 
available, the roUed tongue can be used instead. 

6. Put a cupful of green lentils to soak all night in cold water. 



November 14th 



Breakfast. 


Luncheon. 


Dinner. 


Pigeon Pie. 


Scotcli Collops. 


Crodte au Pot. 


Devilled Drumsticks. 


Norfolk Dumplings, 


Sausages and Lentils. 


Scones. 




Baked Potatoes. 


Dry Toast. 




Wyveru Puddings. 


Urown and WMte liread 




Clieese. 


and Butter. 






Watercress. 






Corn-flour Milk. 







Marketing. 

For the Day.— A ponnd and a half of buttock Steak ; three pounds of best 

Pork Sausages, or fresh Pork to make the same (March ISth) ) ; Potatoes ; a 

small plump L.es of jMutton to put in pickle ; Macaroni. 
For To-morrow.— A good-sized Brill (January 3rd and 9th) ; a well-hung Leg of 

Mutton ; half a pound of Ratafias ; Potatoes ; Brussels Sprouts ; three heads 

of Celery, 

Breakfast. — Pigeon Pie (May 15th), made yesterday ; Devilled 
Drumsticks (January 14th) ; Scones (August 26th) ; Corn-flour Milk 
(June 19th). 

Luncheon. — Scotch Collops (January 9th). Norfolk Dumplings 
(made without yeast). — Real Norfolk Dumplings are of dough made 
v^'ith yeast. Fresh yeast is not, however, always to be procured in 
towns, and very good dough may be quickl}^ and easily made with 
baking powder. The dough should not be mixed until the last thingr 



A yEAKS COOKERY. 391 

before it is to be boiled. Put a pound of flour into a bowl, and mix 
with it a pinch of salt, and a tea-spoonful of baking-powder (August 
2nd). Mix water with it to make it into a light firm dough. Knead 
it quickly, and not too much, with floured hands, make it into ball fa 
about the size of a small Qgg, plunge these into boiling water, and 
boil quickly until done ; they will take about twenty minutes. If 
preferred they can be placed in a single layer_ on a steamer above 
boiling water, and steamed instead of being boiled. Serve with the 
meat and gravy, or with treacle or sugar. To make Bread without 
Yeast. — Mix the dough as already described, make it up quickly in 
small loaves or twists ; lay these on a floured baking-tin, and bake 
in a well-heated oven till a knife pushed into the centre of the loaf 
comes out bright and clean. This bread, which is very easily made, is 
excellent, but it soon gets dry. 

Dinner. — Croiite au Pot (May 25th) ; Sausages and Lentils 
(April 4th) ; Baked Potatoes (May 4th) ; Wyvern Puddings (May 
9th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Cleanse the pig's head and the feet (Note 2, January 8th). Lay 
them in the brine which was previously used for the ox-tongue, and 
turn and rub them every day for eight or nine days. When the 
brine has been used for this purpose it must be thro^vn away, as 
nothing else must be put in it after it has been used for a pig's head. 

2. Make the pickle for the mutton (Note 3, March 19th), and put 
the mutton into it. 

3. Make a mould of Wine Jelly for supper to-morrow night. In 
making Jelly from Gelatine it should be remembered that the only 
safe rule for all times and seasons is an ounce of gelatine to a pint 
of liquid. At the same time, when the weather is cold, the moulds 
are moderate in size, and the gelatine is good, nearly double the 
quantity may be used. Soak the gelatine in a basin with half a 
pint of water for an hour. Mix half a pint of boiling water with 
it, and stir it until dissolved. If necessary stir it over the fire for 
a minute or two. Let it get quite cool, then put it in a rathc^r small 
stewpan with the very thin rind of one fresh lemon that has been 
wiped with a soft cloth, the strained juice of the lemon, an ounce 
of loaf sugar, two cloves, and half an inch of stick cinnamon. 
When lemons are dear, a little citric acid the size of haK a nutmeg 
may be used to flavour. Break an ^gg^ and put the yolk aside. 
It can be used for the Dutch sauce to-morrow, or if a dark jelly 
is wanted it can be put with the rest. Beat the white lightly, 
wipe clean and crush the egg-shell. Stir both the white and the 
crushed sliell into the jelly, put the saucepan on the fire, and whisk 
the jelly till it rises in the pan. As soon as this point is reached stop 
stirring at once, put the lid on the pan, draw it to the side of the fire, 
and let it stand for twenty minutes. Make the jelly-bag hot by 
wringing it out of clean boiling water, put a pan or basin under it. 



392 A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



and pass the jelly carefully tlirougli it three or four times. The cnist 
that will have formed at the top must on no account be disturbed, 
and the jelly must be poured gently upon it, a little at a time. It 
will act as a sort of filter, and help to make the jelly clear. Wlien 
there is not a jelly-bag and stand at hand, a very effectual though 
simple substitute may be made out of a kitchen stool and a clean 
napkin {see April 9th). When the liquid is bright and clear add a wine- 
glassful of sherry and a table-spoonful of brandy, pour it into a 
damp mould, and put it in a cool place. A jelly made with these 
proportions can be varied in all sorts of ways. Various liqueurs can 
be used for flavouring instead of sherry or brandy, fruit juices cdn be 
added instead of water, and the jelly of course is named after the 
special flavourer. Thus, jelly flavoured with orange-rind and juice 
is orange jelly, and with maraschino is maraschino jelly. 

Fruit and other additions are very often put into clear jelly, and 
they improve the appearance as well as the taste of the preparation. 
The fruits most suitable for the purpose are purple and white grapes, 
strawberries, cherries, raspberries, red and white currants, peaches, 
and apricots for summer-time ; apples, pears, oranges, and preserved 
fruits, such as pine-apples, apricots, greengages, &c., for winter. 
Soft fruits, such as grapes, red currants, strawberries, and raspberries, 
may be put into the jellj^ as they are. Hard fruits should be cooked 
gently in syrup before being laid in the jelly, and large fruits should 
be cut into even-sized pieces. In preparing dishes of this kind a 
little jelly should be first poured into the mould to the depth of a 
quarter of an incL When this is set, a layer of fruit may be arranged 
upon it, and a spoonful or two of jelly should he poured in to keep 
the fruit in its place. When this also is set, jelly should be poured in 
again to cover the fruit to the thickness of a quarter of an inch ; this 
too being allowed to set before a further addition is made. ^ After this 
the mould can be filled up to within three-quarters of an inch of the 
top, with alternate layers of fruit, with jelly enough to keep it in its 

{)iace, and jelly to cover it to the depth of a quarter of an inch, each 
ayer being allowed to set firmly before another one is put in. When 
putting in the fruit, care should be taken to contrast the colours 
prettily. It is astonishing what effective and delicious jellies can be 
made in this way for a very trifling cost. 

When Savoury or Aspic Jelly is to be made, such as is used to 
garnish salad or to make calfs-head mould or similar dishes, the 
gelatine is soaked, dissolved, and clarified as before, but savoury 
instead of sweet flavours are boiled with the liquid. If a pint of 
jelly is required, the pan may be rubbed across twice ^ with a clove 
of garlic, and then the liquid may be poured in, and with_ it a small 
piece of clean leek, a piece of turnip, a piece of carrot, an inch or two 
of celery, a shalot, half a blade of mace, a very small sprig of tarragon 
and chervil, two cloves, twelve peppercorns, and a little salt. The 
juice of a lemon, or a table-spoonful of vinegar, should also be added ; 
the first is to be preferred. Jelly of this kind may be put into a round 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



mould, and a gallipot may be placed in the centre to keep it hollow. 
Then when the jelly is turned out various savoury preparations may 
be put in the middle, and very pretty dishes will be produced. 

If the jelly is to be made of Calf's Foot Stock, proceed as follows: 
— Make the stock the day before the jelly is to be made. Wash two 
calf's feet and cut each into four pieces. Put these in a stewpan with 
cold water to cover them, and let them boil (this is to blanch 
them). Take out the feet and wash them again in cold water. Pour 
away the water they were boiled in before, rinse out the pan, and 
put the pieces into it again with five pints of fresh cold water. Let 
this boil, skim it occasionally (if it is not well skimmed the jelly will 
not be clear), draw the pan back, and simmer the liquid gently for 
five hours. When it is reduced to one quart put a hair sieve over a 
basin and strain the stock Put it aside and let it get quite cold. 
Next day skim the fat off the top with an iron spoon that has been 
dipped in hot water, and dab the stock with a cloth that has been 
dipped in hot water. Put it into the pan free from sediment, and 
clarify it according to the method adopted for gelatine jelly, remem- 
bering that the ingredients mentioned there are intended for a ^^m^ 
of liquid, and here is a quart of stock. Calf's -foot jelly is of course 
very much more nourishing than jelly made of gelatine. The moulds 
for jelly should be rinsed first in hot and afterwards in cold water. 

4. Make a little mayonnaise (August 30th) for the celery salad to- 
morrow evening. 

Sunday, November 15th. 



Breakfast. 


Dinner. 


Tea. 


Supper. 


Savourv Eggs. 


Boiled Brill. 


Brown and White Cold Mutton. 


Rolled Tongue. 


Dutch Sauce, 


Bread ?ud Butter. Celery Salad. 


Scones. 


Eoast Leg of Mut- 


Scones. Wine Jelly. 


Dry Toast. 


ton. 


Damson Jam. Cheese. 


Brown and White 


Potato Snow. 


Soda Cake. 




Bread and Butter. 


Brussels Sprouts 






Bread and Milk. 


Lfeche Creme 








Cheese. 







Breakfast. —Savoury Eggs (January 1st) ; Rolled Tongue (July 
27th) ; Scones (August 26th) ; Bread and Milk (January 25th). 

Dinner.— Boiled Brill (January 9th) ; Dutch Sauce (May 14th) ; 
Roast Leg of Mutton (March 4th) ; Potato Snow (April 7th) ; 
Brussels Sprouts (June 4th) ; Leche Creme (May 7th) ; Cheese 
(June 8th). 

Tea. — Scones (May 23rd), Soda Cake (August 14th), made on 
Friday. 

Supper. — Celery Salad. — Be sure that the celery is perfectly dry 
{see Salad, March 13th). Cut the white stallis into one-inch lengths, 
toss them lightly in a little mayonnaise sauce (August 30th), and pour 
mayonnaise on the surface. Garnish with boiled beet-root, and the 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



white of tliree liard-boiled eggs cut into rings ; rub the yolks of the 
eggs through a wire sieve upon the surface of the salad, and sprinkle 
a little chopped parsley on the top. Celery salad is very good with 
thin slices of German sausage or pink ham put round it. Jelly made 
yesterday. 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Turn and rub the mutton in the pickle. 

2. Rub the pig's cheek and the feet, and turn them over in the brine. 

3. If any cold fish is left, preserve it. It can be scalloped for 
breakfast to-morrow. 

4. Put a cupful of hominy to soak all night in cold water . 

5. The outer sticks of celery left from the salad can be left for 
celery soup on Tuesday. 



November 16th, 



Breakfast. 

Scalloped Fish.. 

EoUed Tongiie. 

Scones. 

Dry Toast. 

Brown and White 

and Butter. 
Marmalade. 
Boiled Hominy. 



I Luncheon. 

j Toad in the Hole. 
Sweet Macaroni. 



Bread 



Dinner. 

Milk Soup. 

Italian Ribs of Beef. 

Mashed Potatoes. 
Stewed Endive. 
Apple Dumpling , 
Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— Half a pound of jNIacaroni ; one Rib of Beef, weighing about four 
pounds, taken from the middle ribs, to be boned and rolled ; six, or if preferred, 
eight ounces of fii-m Kidney Suet (sec Suet Crust, Jime 25th) ; Potatoes, 
Endive, Apples ; a piece of the silverside of the Rump of Beef, weighing about 
eight pounds. 

For To-morrow.— A tin of Oysters ; Watercress ; half a pound of Bacon in 
rashers (January 3rd) ; RoUs (September ith). 

Breakfast. — Scalloped Fish : made of the remains of the Brill 
(January 7th) ; PtoUed Tongue (July 27th), boiled last Friday \ 
Scones (August 26th) ; Boiled Hominy (February 11th). 

Luncheon. — Toad in the Hole (January 15th). This can be made 
of the meat left on the leg of mutton, and if any sausages were left 
on Saturday, they can be put in also. Sweet Macaroni (August 
13th). 

Dinner. — Milk Soup (January 3rd) ; Italian Eibs of Beef (Febru- 
ary 2nd) ; Mashed Potatoes (May 12th) ; Stewed Endive (December 
5th) ; Apple Dumphngs (July 19th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Turn and rub the mutton in the pickle. 

2. Rub the pig's feet and the pig's head, and turn them over m 
the brine. 



A YEARS COOKERY. 



395 



3. If any little pieces of steak are left, pot them for breakfast to- 
morrow (January 23rd). 

4. Preserve any hominy that may be left ; it can be fried for 
breakfast to-naorrow. 

5. ]Make fresh brine (January 13th) if necessary, and put the 
silverside of beef in it. 



November 17th. 



Breakfast. 


Luncheon. 


Dinner. 


Potted Beef. 


Scalloped Oysters. 


Celery Soup. 


Toasted Bacon, 


Macaroni and Tongue. 


Pork Chops witli Tomato 


Hot EoUs, 




Sauce. 


Dry Toast. 




Browned Potatoes. 


Brown and White Bread 




Stewed Red Cabbage. 


and Butter. 




Eothe Grtitze or Ecd Rice. 


Watercress. 




Cheese. 


Pried Hominy. 







Marketing. 

For the Day.— Half a pound of Macaroni (January 1st) ; about four pounds oi 
Pork Chops, from the Loin or Neck (January Gth) ; the best Chops are from 
the Kidney end of the Loin ; the Chops shovild be about half an inch thick ; 
three or four pounds of Fresh Pork to put in pickle. 

For To-morrow.— A sugar-cured Ham, if Ham is not already in the house 
(September 17th), for to-morrow ; a couple of plump young Fowls (June 29th, 
or August 6th). 



Breakfast. — Potted Beef (January 23rd) ; Toasted Bacon (Janu- 
ary 19tli) ; Hot Rolls (September 4tk) ; Fried Hominy (February 
12tli). 

Luncheon. — Scalloped Oysters (April 27th). Macaroni and 
Tongue. — Follow the recipe given for macaroni and ham (April 3rd), 
but substitute the tongue that is still left for ham. 

Dinner. — Celery Soup (December 3rd). Porh Ghops^ Broiled or 
Fried. — Trim the chops neatly, and cut away part of the fat. Grease 
the gridiron, and make it hot ; lay the chops on it, at a good height 
over a clear fire, and turn them every two minutes till they are done. 
They will take about twenty-five minutes, as they must be done 
through. Season them with pepper and salt, and if liked, add a little 
powdered sage or tarragon. If liked, the chops can be fried instead 
of being broiled ; they should then be put into a frying-pan with some 
good dripping made hot, fried gently, and turned occasionally, until 
done enough ; they would be ready in about haK an hour. Tomato 
Sauce (July 15th) ; Apple Sauce (September 29th) ; Bro\^^l Gravy 
(September 29th); and Piquante Sauce (May 5th), are all suitable 
accompaniments to broiled pork chops. Potatoes, Browned (October 
18th) ; Stewed Pted Cabbage (October 23rd) ; Ptothe Grutze or lied 
Hice (December 8th) ] Cheese (June 8th). 



396 



A YEARS COOKERY. 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Turn and rub the mutton in the pickle. 

2. Turn the pig's feet and head in the brine. 

3. Put the fresh pork into the brine from which the hand of pork 
was taken last Tuesday. 

4. Pluck the fowls and hang them in a cool larder ; dry the 
feathers (Note, February 28th). 

5. Turn and rub the beef in the brine. 



November 18th. 



Breakfast. 

Pned Ham. 

Fried Eggs. 

Hot Buttered Toast. 

Dry Toast. 

Broini and White Bread 

and Butter. 
Honey. 
Milk Porridge. 



Luncheon. 


Dinner. 


Australian Meat, 


Cold. 


Fried WMting. 


Pickles. 




Boiled Fowl with Maltre 


Baked Potatoes, 




d'Hotel Sauce. 


Stewed Cheese. 




Bacon Rolls. 
Potato Snow. 
Broccoli. 
Treacle Pudding. 






Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— A four-pound tin of Australian Meat ; Fresh Whiting (January 
17th) to be sent home ready for frying; a quarter of a pound of Bacon in 
rashers ; a quarter of a pound of Suet ; Potatoes ; Broccoli ; Parsley. 

For To-morrow.— A Dried Haddock; three pounds of Jerusalem Artichokes 
for Soup ; Watercress. 



Breakfast. — Fried Ham (March 5th) : for this a slice is to be 
taken from the middle of the sugar-cured ham ; Fried Eggs (March 
6th) ; Milk Porridge (June 13th). 

Luncheon.— Australian Meat (February 4th) ; Baked Potatoes 
(May 4th) ; Stewed Cheese (May 5tli). 

Dinner.— Fried Whiting (January 17th) ; Boiled Foivls with 
Maitre d^ Hotel Sauce. — Boil the fowls according to the method recom- 
mended (September 6th). Make some Maitre d'Hotel Sauce (May 
6th), pour half of it over the breast of the bird, and send the re- 
mainder to table in a turet)n. Garnish the dish with bacon rolls 
(July 19th) and branches of boiled broccoli (April 25th). Celery Sauce 
(December 12th) ; Oyster Sauce (October 16th) or Egg Sauce (April 
10th), may, if preferred, be substituted for the Maitre d'Hotel Sauce 
in this recipe. Potato Snow (April 7th) ; Treacle Pudding (March 
28th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Turn and rub the mutton in the pickle. 

2. Turn the feet and the head in the brine. 

3. It is not likely that the Australian meat will be finished at 



A YEAR'S COOKERY, 



■m 



luncheon to-day. Put all that remains on a clean dish in a cool 
larder. 

4. Turn and rub the beef in the brine. 

5. Partially prepare the rice-milk (Note 3, June 17th). 

6. Preserve the liquor in which the fowls were boiled. 



November 19th. 



Breakfast. 


Luncheon 




Dinner. 


Dried Haddock. 

Devilled Eggs. 

Hot Buttered Toast, Dry 

Toast. 
Watercress. 
Browu and White Bread 

and Butter. 
Rice mik. 


Chicken Sautfe aux 

pignons. 
Plata Rice Pudding. 


Cham- 


Palestine Soup. 

Eoast Shoulder of Mutton. 

Browned Potatoes. 

Cabbages. 

Newcastle Pudding. 

Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— A well-hung Shoulder of Mutton, not too fat; Potatoes: 

Cabbages ; a small tin of Champignons. 
For To-morrow.— A tin of Sardines (January 12th) ; Small Salad. 



Breakfast. — Dried Haddock (January 27th) ; Devilled Eggs 
(February 27th) ; Pace Milk (June 18th). 

Luncheon. — Chicken Saut6 aux Champignons (April 2nd) ; Plain 
Rice Pudding (February 24th). 

Dinner. — Palestine Soup (December 8th) ; Roast Shoulder of 
Mutton (March 4th) • Browned Potatoes (October 18th); Cabbagea 
(June 4th) ; Newcastle Pudding (June 12th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Turn and rub the mutton in the pickle. 

2. Turn the pig's head and the feet in the brine, 

3. Boil half of the sugar-cured ham (Note 4, ]\Iay 27th). 

4. Turn and rub the beef in the brine. 



November 20th. 



Breakfast. 

Sardines. 

Boiled Ham. 

Hot Buttered Toast. 

Dry Toast. 

Brown and Wliite Bread 

and Butter. 
Small Salad, 
Porridge. 



Luncheon. 



Boiled Tripe. 
Onion Sauce. 
Treacle Tart. 



Dinner. 

Half a dozen Oysters foi 

each Person. 
Lemon Jiiice and Brown 

Bread and Butter. 
Civet of Rabbit. 
Mashed Potatoes. 
Stewed Celery. 
Town Pudding. 
Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— A pound and a half of Dressed Tripe (Marketing, January 23rd) ; 
Fresh Oysters (Marketing, February 14th) ; u plump young Rabbit (January 



A YEAKS COOKERY. 



24th), or two Rabbits if required; half a pouncl of Bacon in Rashers; 

Potatoes ; Celery ; Apples ; Onions ; six ounces of Suet. 
For To-morrow.— Order to be sent in the morning a square piece of the thin 
flank of Beef, weighing about eight pounds. 



Bkeakf AST. -^Sardines (January 12tli) ; Boiled Ham (May 27th) ; 
Porridge (January 25tli). 

Luncheon. — Boiled Tripe (December 4tli) with Onion Sauce; 
Treacle Tart (August 7th), to be made with the pastry to-day. 

DiNNEES. — HaK a dozen Oysters (February 14th) ; Civet of 
Rabbit (December 8th) ; Mashed Potatoes (May 12th) ; Stewed Celery 
(December 2nd) ; Town' Pudding (December 3rd) : Cheese (June 8th). 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Turn and rub the silverside of beef in the brine, the mutton in 
the pickle, and also the pig's head and feet. 

2. Pastry is to be made to-day (April 17th) ; Apple Pies (August 
7th ; Treacle Tart (August 7th) ; Baked Custard Tart (January 19th); 
also Sally Lunns (August 26th), and Cake. Hitherto the recipes 
given have been for very plain, wholesome cakes. When superior 
cakes are wanted the following recipe will be found excellent and 
not expensive :— Gateau Turc with Coffee Icing. — Break four eggs 
into a basin, and put ^\ith them two ounces of white sugar. Have on 
the fire plenty of boiling water in a pan of such a size that the basin 
can rest on the top of it. Put the basin over the water, draw the 
pan back a little way, and whisk the eggs and the sugar till the 
mixture froths, which it will do in about twenty minutes. Take the 
basin oif the fire and stir in lightly four ounces of Vienna flour. Pour 
the iDatter into a cake tin lined with paper, and bake in a good oven. 
Coffee Icing for this CaZrd— Beat two ounces of butter to cream and 
work in four ounces of white sugar. Add clear, strong coffee (January 
11th), to make a stiff paste. Put this on the cake with an icing tube 
and dry in a cool oven. 



November 21st. 



Breakfast. 


Luncheon. • 


Dinner. 


Boiled Ham. 


Rabbit made Hot. 


Victoria Soup. 


Buttered Eggs. 


SUces of Cold Pudding 


Boiled Silverside of Beet 


Sally Lunus. 


Toasted. 


Mashed Parsnips. 


Dry Toast. 




Carrots. 


Brown and Wliite Bread 




Potatoes. 


and Butter. 




Apple Fie. 


Marmalade. 




Cheese. 


Bread and Milk. 







Marketing. 

For the Day.— Parsnips ; Carrots ; Potatoes ; Parsley. 

For To-morrow.— Bloaters, one for each person, and one over ; three pounds o/ 



A YEARS COOKERY. 



399 



Jerusalem Artichokes. The hare which was bought on the 12th of November 
will probably be sufficiently high, and may be cooked to-morrow. Ingredients 
for forcemeat (see Forcemeat for Hare, October 2oth) ; a quarter of a pound 
of fat Baoon : Potatoes : Brussels Sprouts. 



Breakfast. — Ham, boiled November 19tli ; Buttered Eggs 
(January 16tli) ; Sally Lunns (June 4tli) j Bread and Milk (January 
25tli). 

Luncheon.— Rabbit made Hot (November lath) ; Cold Pudding 
Toasted (]\Iarcli 6tli> 

Dinner. — Victoria Soup (February 9tli) ; Boiled Silverside of 
Beef (February 23rd) ; Mashed Parsnips (September 30tli) ; Carrots 
(July Gtii) ; Potatoes (April 7tli) ; Apple Pie (August 7tli) j Cheese 
(June 8th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Turn and rub the mutton in the pickle, and the pig's head and 
feet in the brine. 

2. Keep the bloaters apart from everything else in the larder. 

3. Prepare the red rice for dinner to-morrow (December 10th). 

4. As soon as the boiled beef leaves the table take the marrow 
from the bone in as large pieces as possible ; it can be made into 
marrow toast for breakfast. 

5. Skin the hare ready for to-morrow. To do this, cut a slit under 
the body, and take out the inside, break the legs at the first joint, 
cut the skin round the legs, and beginning at the hinder legs draw 
the skin off over the body, the fore-legs, and head. In doing this 
use a knife when necessary. Cut off the feet, skin the ears, preserv- 
ing them and the tail, and take out the eyes. Wipe the hare inside 
and out, and if any parts look bloody, pierce them with a skewer, 
and wash them with tepid water. 



Sunday, November 22nd 



Breakfast. 

Bloaters. 
Marrow Toast. 
Sally Limns. 
Dry Toast. 
Brown and White 
Bread and Butter. 
Com-flonx Milk. 



Dinner. 

Palestine Soup. 
Roast Hare. 
Red' Currant Jelly. 
Potato Snow. 
Brussels Sprouts. 
Red Rice. " 
Cheese. 



Tea. 

Brown and Wliite 
Bread and Butter. 
Gateau Tare. 
Strawberry Jam, 



Supper. 

Cold Beef. 
Potato Salad. 
Baked Custard Tart. 
Cheese. 



Breakfast. — Bloaters (January 3rd); Marrow Toast (January 
21st) ; Sally Lunns (june 4th) ; Corn-flour Milk (June 19th). 

Dinner. — Palestine Soup (December 8th). Roast Hare. — Hare is 
naturally such dry meat that it is much better jugged (October 25th) 



400 A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



than roasted. When, however, the latter method of cooking it is 

E referred proceed as follows : — Make some forcemeat (October 25th), 
11 the body with this, and sew it securely with soft cotton. Truss 
it with the hind legs forward and the fore legs back, and put a 
skewer down the mouth, and one in each ear to keep the head firmly 
in its right position. Put slices of fat bacon over the back to keep it 
moist, and put the hare in a dripping tin, put dripping on it, and 
place it in a moderately heated, not a sloiu, oven. (Roast hare is 
generally baked hare. It is so difficult to roast a hare equally in 
every part when it is hung before the fire, that cooks usually prefer 
to avoid the difficulty by putting it in the oven.) Baste it frequently 
to keep the skin moist. The time it will take to bake depends upon 
its size. A small hare would be done enough in an hour and a 
quarter, a large one would require two hours. Towards the last baste 
the hare with a little butter instead of dripping. Take it up, remove 
the skewers, and put it on a hot dish. Pour the fat from the tin, 
have ready some good gravy, made as directed at the end of this 
recipe, pour it into the tin, stir it well in the pan, pour it into a 
saucepan, boil it, strain a small quantity over the hare, and send the 
rest to table in a tureen. Red currant jelly should be served as an 
accompaniment. Gravy for Roast Hare. — Mince finely two moderate- 
sized onions, and fry them in a little dripping. Pour a pint and a 
haK of stock upon them, and add the liver and heart of the hare, if 
these are perfectly siveet, a bunch of parsley, a sprig of thyme, a bay- 
leaf, half an inch of cinnamon, and two cloves, half a blade of mace, 
and an inch of thin lemon-rind. Cover closely, and stew gently for 
an hour and a half. Strain the gravy, free it from fat, thicken it with 
a dessert-spoonful of corn-flour mixed to a smooth paste with cold 
water, and add a little browning, a glass of port, and pepper and salt 
to taste. Boil up once more, and serve. Potato Snow (April 7th) ; 
Brussels Sprouts (June 4th) ; Red Rice (December 10th) ; Cheese 
(June 8th). 

Tea. — Gateau Turc (November 20th), made on Friday. 
Supper. — Beef boiled (November 21st) ; Potato Salad (April 12th); 
Baked Custard Tart (January 19th). 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Turn and rub the mutton in the pickle, and the pig's head and 
feet in the brine. 

2. Put a cupful of hominy to soak all night in cold water. 

3. Soak a cupful of green lentils in cold water all night 



A YEARS COOKERY. 



m 



November 23rd. 



Breakfast. 



Ham Toast. 
Boiled E^gs. 

Sally Lunns. , 

Dry Toast. | 

Brown and Wliite Bread and 
Butter. j 

Marmalade. 
Boiled Hominy. 



Luncheon. 

Anstralian Meat, Cold. 
Baked Potatoes. 
Comp6te of Apples. 



Dinner. 



Hare Soup. 

Sour Mutton. 

Lentils. 

Potatoes. 

Cottage Plum Pudding. 

Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— A four pound tin of Australian Meat ; six ounces of Beef Suet ; 

Potatoes ; Apples. 
For To-morrow.— A tin of Sardines (January 12th) ; half a pound of prunes ; 

about eight pounds of the thin end of the flank of Beef ; Mufllns (January 

29th). 

Breakfast. — Ham Toast made of the boiled ham cut from the 
bone (March 28th) ; Boiled Eggs (January 5th) ; Sally Lunns 
(June 4th); Boiled Hominy (February 11th). 

Luncheon. — Australian Meat Cold (February 4th) ; Baked Pota- 
toes (May 4th) ; Compote of Apples (Note 3, September 12th). 

Dinner. — Hare Soup (January 19th) ; Sour Mutton (March 29th); 
Lentils (^larch 2nd) ; Potatoes (May 12th) ; Cottage Plum Pudding 
(June 6th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Wash the prunes and put them to soak all night in cold 
water. 

2. Preserve any cold hominy that may be left ; it can be fried 
for breakfast to-morrow. 

3. Boil the brine from which the silverside of beef was taken, and 
put the thin flank of beef into it. 

4. Make brawn of the pig's head and the pig's feet (March 2nd). 



Breakfast. 

Sardines. 

Brawn. 

Brawn Sauce. 

Muffins. 

Dry Toast. 

Brown and Wliito 

and Butter. 
Pried Hominy, 



November 24th. 



Bread 



Luncheon. 

Savoiiry Hash of Australian 

Meat. 
Stewed Prunes, 



Dinner. 



Fried Cod. 
Oyster Sauce. 
Cold Mutton. 
Celery Salad. 
Baked Potatoes. 
Pickles. 
Eice Gateau. 
Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— Four or five slices, half an iiich thick, from the middle of a largo 
Cod ; a dozen Oysters, or a tin of preserved Oysters ; Celery ; Potatoes. 
AA 



402 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



For To-morrow.— A tin of Prawns (February 6th) ; Hot Ilolls (September 3rdj ; 
Watercress 

Breakfast. — Sardines (January 12tli) ; Brawn (March 2nd), 
made yesterday ; Brawn Sauce (January 15tli) ; Muffins (January 
SOth) ; Fried Hominy (February 12tli). 

Luncheon. — Savoury Hash of Australian Meat (February 5th) ; 
Stewed Pranes (February 27th). 

Dinner. — Slices of Cod Fried (January 1st) ; Oyster Sauce 
(October 16th) ; Mutton, roasted yesterday ; Celery Salad (November 
15th); Baked Potatoes (May •4th); Rice Gateau (October 3rd); 
Cheese (June 8th). 

Tilings that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Preserve any fish and fish sauce that may be left, cod pie or fish 
cakes can be made of it for luncheon to-morrow. 

2. Turn and rub the flank of beef in the brine. 



November 25th. 



Breakfast. 



5t. 


Luncheon. 


Dinner. 


Fish Cakes. 


Skate with Browu Battel 




stewed Ox Kiduey. 


Sauce. 




Suet Dumplings. 


Broiled Steak ^ la B^aruaise. 
Fried Potatoes. 
Broccoli. 


e Bread 




Newcastle Pudding. 
Cheese. 



Prawns. 
Brawn. 
Brawn Sauce. 
Hot Rolls. 
Dry Toast. 
Brown and "V\ 

and Butter. 
Watercress. 
Milk Porridge. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— A fresh Ox Kidney ; a quarter of a pound of Suet ; about two 

pounds of Crimped Skate (January 10th and 3rd) ; a slice of Rump Steak an 

inch thick (January 22nd) ; Potatoes ; Broccoli ; Parsley. 
For To-morrow.— Order to be sent in the morning the top side of the Round 

of Beef (February 3rd) ; INIustard and Cress ; three-pennyworth of Cream 

for the Potato Pur^e, if permitted ; Sea Biscuits. 



Breakfast. — Prawns (February 7th) ; Brawn (March 2nd) ; 
Brawn Sauce (January 15th) ; Hot Rolls (September 4th) ; Milk 
Porridge (June 13th). 

Luncheon.— Fish Cakes (January 13th) ; Stewed Ox Kidney 
(April 2nd) ; Suet Dumplings (October 17th). 

Dinner. — Skate with Brown Butter Sauce (February 12tlj) ; 
Broiled Steak (January 22nd) ; B^arnaise Sauce (March 23rd) ; Fried 
Potatoes (February 2nd) ; Broccoli (April ^5th) : Newcastle Pudding 
(June 12th) ; Cheese (June 8th). " " ' ^ 



A YEARS COOKERY. 403 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Turn and rub the flank of beef in the brine 

2. Preserve any little pieces of steak that may be left. 

3. Put a cupful of white haricot beans to soak all night in cold 
water. 



November 26th. 



Breakfast. 




1 Luncheon. | 


Dinner. 


Prawns. 




Shepherd's Pie. i 


Potato Puree, 


Eggs on the Dish. 




Custard Sippets. i 


Top side of the Roimd ol 


Hot Buttered Toast. 






Beef. 


Dry Toast. 




' 1 


Yorkshire Pudding. 


Brown and White 


Bread 




Haricot Beans. 


and Butter. 
Marmalade. 




1 
1 


Potato Mould. 
Brown Betty. 


Biscuits: and Milk. 




1 


Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— Top side of the Round ordered yesterday ; Potatoes ; Apples. 
For To-morrow.— A dried Haddock ; a tin of potted Grouse ; a fine Ox Tail ; 
Watercress. 

Breakfast. — Prawns (February 7th) ; Eggs on the Dish (December 
7th) ; Biscuits and Milk (June 14th). 

Luncheon. — Shepherd's Pie, made of the remnants of Steak 
(January 12th) ; Custard Sippets (June 10th). 

Dinner. — Potato Pur^e (January 26th) ; Top side of the Round 
of Beef (February 3rd, and March 4th). Yorlcshire Pudding. — Make 
some batter according to the recipe given with Toad in the Hole 
(January 15th), or if a richer batter is required, allow two eggs to 
three table-spoonfuls of flour, instead of one %gg to two table- 
spoonfuls of flour. Remember always that the batter will be much 
lighter if it is made some hours before it is wanted. Let the tin 
in which the pudding is to be baked get hot through, and be well 
greased by being placed under the roasting joint. Pour the batter 
into it to the thickness of a quarter of an inch, and cook it under the 
joint before the fire, turning it about that it may be equally browned 
on all sides. When it is done enough, cut it into three inch squares, 
and serve these on a separate dish at the same time as the pudding. 
Yorkshire pudding as made in Yorkshire is thin, and browned on 
one side only, according to the method described here. Yorkshire 
pudding served in other parts of the country is half an inch thick, 
and is sometimes browned on both sides, being occasionally turned 
over when it is browned on the uppermost surface. Sometimes it is 
baked in the oven under a baking joint instead of before the fire 
under a roasting one. When this plan is adopted, it is an improve- 
ment to bake the batter in small tins, after the fashion of Wyvern 
Puddings (May 9th), instead of putting it in one large tin. The 



404 



A YEAR'S COOKERY, 



small puddings thus made may, if liked, be placed on the dish round 
the joint. Haricot Beans (June 20th) ; Potato Mould (October 23rd), 
Brown Betty. — Pare, core, and slice six or eight large baking-apples, 
and prepare a large cupful of fine bread-crumbs. Butter a pie-dish, 
place a thin layer of bread-crumbs to cover the bottom of the dish, 
and put a layer of apples on this. Grate a little lemon-rind, or if 
preferred put a clove with the fruit, sprinkle sugar upon it, and lay 
two or three knobs of butter on the top. Fill the dish with these 
alternate layers of crumbs, apples, sugar, and butter, remembering 
that crumbs should form the uppermost layer. Pour a cuijful of 
water on the top, and bake the pudding slowly for an hour and a half 
or more, according to the quality of the apples. The pudding is done 
enough when the apples have fallen, and the crumbs on the surface 
are brown. Of course a spoonful or two of prepared quince would 
,2:reatly improve this pudding. Cheese (June 8th). 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Turn and rub the flank of beef in the brine. 

2. As soon as the beef leaves the table put it on a clean dish, and 
\ lace it in the larder. 

3. If any haricot beans are left, preserve them. They will make a 
very good salad for dinner to-morrow. 



Breakfast. 



November 27th. 



Luncheon. 



Dried Haddock. 

Potted Grouse. 

Hot Buttered Toast. 

Dry Toast. 

Brown aud White Bread 

and Butter. 
Porridge. 



Toad in the Hole. 
Jam Turnoyers. 



Dinner. 



Ox Tail Soup. 

Beef with Sharp Sauce. 

Potatoes. 

Broccoli. 

Apple Pie. 

Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— A pound and a half of tender steak for Toad in the Hole ; Apples ; 

Potatoes ; Broccoli ; German Yeast ; a pound and a half of Sausages, or fresh 

Pork to make the same (March 18th), for Sausage RoUs. 
For To-morrow.— Half a pound of Macaroni. 



Breakfast. — Dried Haddock (January 27th) ; Potted Grouse 
(January 7th) ; Porridge (January 25tli). 

Luncheon. — Toad in the Hole (January 15th) ; Jam Turnovers 
made to-day. 

Dinner.— Ox Tail Soup (February 22nd) ; Beef with Sharp 
S.auce made of cold roast beef (December 4th); Potatoes (May 12th) ; 
Brocf^oli (A.pril 25th) ; Apple Pie made to-day. Cheese (June 8th). 



A YEAKS COOKERY. 



405 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Turn and rub tlie beef in the brine. 

2. Pastry is to be made to-day (April ITtli) ; Apple Pies (August 
7th) ; Jam Turnovers (September 25th) ; and Sausage Piolls 
(November 6th). Also Teacakes (August 26th) may be made ; Seed 
Cake (August 14th). 



November 28th. 



Breakfast. 



Potted Grouse. 

Sausage Kolls. 

Teacakes. 

Dry Toast. 

Brown and WTiite Bread 

and Butter. 
Milk Toast. 



Luncheon, 

Rissoles. 
Italian Macaroni, 



Dinner, 

Croflte au Pot. 

Spanish Stew. 

Potatoes. 

Savoy. 

Hayrick Pudding. 

Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— One, or if necessary two, Ostend Rabbits (January 24th) ; Onions'; 
Potatoes ; Savoy. 

For To-morrow.— A moderate-sized Turbot (June 6th). Turbot is best and 
cheapest in the summer months. Nevertheless, if desired, it can usually be 
obtained all the year round. A shoulder of Mutton, not too fat ; Potatoes ; 
Brussels Sprouts ; materials for a Salad ; half a pound of Raspberry Sand- 
wich, or Swiss Roll ; and sis ounces of good Suet ; Sea Biscuits ; a small com- 
pact leg of Pork to be pickled. 

Breakfast. — Potted Grouse (January 7th) ; Sausage Rolls made 
yesterday. Teacakes (February 14th); Milk Toast (June 17th). 

Luncheon. — Rissoles made of the broken remnants of the top 
side of the Round of Beef (January 6th) ; Itahan Macaroni (July 
7th). 

Dinner.— Crotite au Pot (May 25th) ; Spanish Stew (April 8th) ; 
Potatoes (Aprd 7th) ; Savoy (June 4th) ; Hayrick Puddings (March 
19th); Cheese (June 8th). 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Turn and rub the beef in the brine, 

2. The pudding for to-morrow can very well be made to-day, to 
save trouble on Sunday. 

3. Very good stock can be made by stewing the bones and trim- 
mings of the rabbit. 

4. Rub the leg of pork all over, and very thoroughly, with salt. 



406 



A YEARS COOKERY. 



Sunday, November 29th. 



Breakfast. 


Dinner. 


Tea. 


Supper. 


Eggs in. Brown But- 


Boiled Turbot. 


Brown and White 


Cold Mutton. 


ter. 


B^arnaise Sauce. 


Bread and Butter. 


Salad 


Sausage Rolls. 


Eoast Shoulder of 


Plvun Jam. 


Pickles. 


Teacakes. 


Mutton. 


Seed Cake. 


Apple Pie. 


Dry Toast, 


Potatoes. 




Cheese. 


Brown and White 


Brussels Sprouts. 






Bread and Butter. 


Raspberry Sand- 






Biscuits and Milk. 


wich Pudding. 
Cheese. 







Breakfast. — ^Eggs in Brown Butter (January 6tli); Sausage 
Rolls made on Friday ; Teacakes (February 14th) ; Biscuits and Milk 
(June 14th). 

Dinner. — Boiled Turbot (June 7th) ; B^arnaise Sauce (March 
23rd) ; Roast Shoulder of Mutton (March 4th) ; Potatoes (May 12th) ; 
Brussels Sprouts (June 4th). Raspberry Sandivich Pudding. — Follow 
the recipe given for Leche Crfeme (May 7th) ; but substitute Swiss 
Roll cut into slices for the ratafias. Cheese (June 8th). 

Tea.— Seed Cake (August 14th). 

Supper.— Salad (March 13th) ; Apple Pie (August 7th). 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Turn and rub the beef in the brine. 

2. Put a large cupful of hominy to soak in cold water. 

3. Pi-eserve the liquor in which the turbot was boiled, 

4. Turn and rub the leg of pork. 



November 30th. 



Breakfast. 

Fried Ham. 

Fried Eggs. 

Teacakes. 

Brown and White 

and Butter. 
Boiled irominy. 



Luncheon. 

Minced Mutton. 
Baked Batter Pudding. 



Bread 



Dinner. 



Fish Soup. 
Stewed Steak. 
Potato Snow. 
Jerusalem Ai-tichokes, 
Apple Custard. 
Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— Three pounds of tender steak, cut about an inch and a half thick. 
Potatoes, Apples, Jerusalem Artichokes. 

For To-morroiv.— Bloaters. One for every two persons will probably be suffi- 
cient. Watercress. 



Breakfast.— Fried Ham (March 5th) ; Fried Eggs (March 5th) ; 
Teacakes (February 14th) ; Boiled Hominy (February 11th). 

Luncheon.— Minced Mutton (January 20th) ; Baked Batter 
Pudding (February 5th). 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 407 



DiNXER.— Fisli Soup (July 13tli) ; Stewed Steak (January 31st) • 
Potato Snow (April Tth). Jerusalem Articho/ccs. — Wash, brush, and 
pare the artichokes. Put them into a saucepan with sufficient cold 
water, slightly salted, to cover them. Let the w^ater boil, skim it 
well, and boil the artichokes gently till they are tender. The lid 
should be kept on the pan. Drain the artichokes, and serve them 
with melted butter poured over them. If the artichokes are left in 
the pan after they are done enough they will turn black. Apple 
Custard (November 10th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Turn and rub the beef in the brine. 

2. Turn and rub the pork in the liquor that has run from it. 

3. Preserve any boiled hominy that may be left. It can be fried 
for breakfast to-morrow. 

4. Put a cupful of green lentils to soak all night in cold water. 

5. Preserve the remains of stewed steak and pot the meat for 
breakfast to-morrow (January 23rd). 



FRUITS IN SEASON SUITABLE FOR DESSERT IN 
NOVEMBER. 

Apples, Pears, Shaddocks, Pomeloes, Pomegranates, Grapes, 
Melons, Cobs, Filberts, Walnuts, Chestnuts, Brazils, Barcelonas, 
Medlars, Dried and Crystallised Fruits. 



NOVEMBER. 



A^yple Jam and Apj^le Jelly. — The best time for making apple 
jelly IS about the middle of November. Almost all kinds of apples 
can be used for the purpose, though if a clear white jelly is wanted 
Colvilles, or orange pippins should be chosen ; if red jelly is preferred 
very rosy-cheeked apples should be taken, and the skins should be 
boiled with the fruit. Apple jam is made of the fruit after the 
juice has been drawn off for jelly. Economical housekeepers will 
find that very excellent apple jeUy can be made of apple parings, so 
that when apples in any quantity have been used for pies and tarts, 
the skins can be stewed in sufficient water to cover them, and when 
the liquid is strongly flavoured it can be strained and boiled with 
sugar to a jelly. To make apple jelly pare, core, and slice the apples 
and put them into a preserving pan with enough water to cover them. 
Stir them occasionally and stew gently till the apples have fallen, 
then turn all into a jelly-bag and strain away the juice, but do not 
squeeze or press the pulp. Measure the liquid and allow a pound of 
sugar to a pint of juice. Put both juice and sugar back into the pre- 
serving pan, and if liked, add one or two cloves tied in muslin, or two 



408 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



or three inches of lemon-rind. Boil gently and skim carefully for 
al30ut half an hour, or till a little of the jelly put upon a plate will 
set. Pour it while hot into jars, and when cold and stiff cover down 
in the usual way. If yellow jelly is Avanted a pinch of saffron tied in 
muslin should be boiled with the juice. To make appte jam, weigh 
the apple pulp after the juice has been drawn from it. Eub it through 
a hair-sieve, and allow one pound of sugar to one pint of pulp, and 
the grated rind of a lemon to three pints of pulp. Boil all gently 
together till the jam will set when a little is put on a plate. Apple 
jam is sometimes flavoured with vanilla instead of lemon. 



DISHES FOR INVALIDS. 

MEATS. 

Mutton Chop or Rump Steal- Steived. — Trim away nearly all the 
fat, and put the chop in a jar that has a closely-fitting cover. Place 
this in a saucepan of water and keep the water simmering round it 
till the meat is tender. It will take about an hour and a half. For 
another method see May 29th. 

Minced Meat. — Raw mutton, beef, poultry, and game can all be 
minced. Cut away all the fat, and skin, and sinew, and mince the 
flesh finely. Sprinkle a little salt upon it, put it into a delicately 
clean saucepan, and heat it very slowly by the side of the fire. 
When hot through it is done enough. It must on no account boil or 
it will be hard. Cooked meat should never be warmed up for invalids. 
Raw rump steak scraped to pulp is often ordered for weakness, 

Pdultrjj and Game of all kinds, when ordered for invalids, should 
be cooked and served in the usual way. 

Fish should, as a rule, be plainly boiled and served with plain 
melted butter. 



December 1st. 



Breakfast. 


Luncheon. 


Dinner. 


Bloaters, 


Scotch Collops. 


Fried Whiting. 


Potted Beef. 


Rice with Apples and Beet- 


Lentils and Sausages. 


Hot Buttered Toast. 


root. 


Potatoes. 


Dry Toast, 




Golden Pudding. 


Brown and White Bread 




Cheese. 


and Butter. 






Water Cress. 






Pried Hominy, 







Marketing. 

For the Day.— A pound and a half of Buttock Steak (January 1st) ; Fresb 
Whiting (January 17th) ; three pounds of best Pork Sausages, or fresh Pork 
to make the same (March 18th) ; six ounces of Suet ; Apples ; Beetrcot ; 
Potatoes. 

For To-morrow.— A pint of freshly-boiled shrimps. 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



408 



Breakfast. — Bloaters on Toast (^farch 24tb) ; Potted Beef 
(January 23rd) ; Fried Hominy ^February 12tli). 

Luncheon. — Scotch CoUops (January 9tli) ; Rice with Apples and 
Beetroot (January 2Sth). 

Dinner. — Fried Whiting (January ITth) ; Lentils and Sausages 
^April 4th) ; Potatoes (May 12th) ; Golden Pudding (May 4th) ; 
Cheese (June 8th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Turn and rub the beef in the brine. 

2. Turn the pork over and rub it in the liquor that is around it. 

3. Pot the shrimps for breakfast to-morrow (November 12th). 
4 Partially prepare the rice milk (Note 3, June 17th). 



December 2nd 



Breakfast. 


Luncheon. 


Dinner. 


Potted Shrimps. 

Eggs on the Dish. 

Hot Buttered Toast. 

Dry Toast. 

Brown and White Bread 

and Butter. 
EiceMilk. 


stewed Giblets. 
Cake Pudding. 


Cr^cy Soup. 
Eoast Capon. 
Brown Gravy. 
Bread Sauce. 
Mashed Potatoea. 
Stewed Celery. 
Rice Gateau. 
Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day Two sets of Giblets in addition to those of the Capon ; a plump 

Capon (June 29th); Potatoes; Carrots; Celery. 
For To-morrow.— A sugar-cured Ham if this is not in the house ; half a pound 

of Macaroni ; Fillet of Beef (January 2nd). 

Breakfast. — Potted Shrimps (November 12th) ; Eggs on the Dish 
Pecember 7th) ; Rice Milk (June 18th). 

Luncheon. — Stewed Giblets (February 6th) ; Cake Pudding 
(February 4th). 

Dinner:— Cr4cy Soup (January 5th) ; Roast Capon (June 30th) ; 
Brown Gravy (October 18th) ; Bread Sauce (October 18th) ; Mashed 
Potatoes (May 12th). Steived Celery. — Cooked Celery has _ within 
the last year or two risen very much in popular estimation for 
its purifying and nourishing qualities. Indeed, it has been declared 
by a well-known member of the medical profession, that the regular 
use of celery not only purifies the blood but makes rheumatism im- 
possible. Celery is an exceedingly palatable dish and economical 
also. The strict economist, when preparing it, may cut away the 
outermost stalks and tlie leaves to be used for flavouring purposes, or 
for making soup ; stew the coarser stalks that remain, to be served as 
a vegetable ; and send the roots and the more delicate stalks to table 



410 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



to be eaten raw mtli cheese or to be made into a salad. To Stew 
Celery : First, wash it well and trim it. Put it into a saucepan with 
boiling water, and let it boil for five minutes ; drain it and put it 
into a stewpan with stock to cover it, and stew it gently for about 
half an hour, or till it is tender. Thicken the gravy with flour and 
butter, and add pepper and salt and a few drops of browning to make 
it a good colour. Boil a quarter of an hour longer and serve the 
celery with the sauce poured over it. If liked white stock may be 
used instead of flavoured brown stock, and a cupful of milk may be 
added when the sauce is thickened. Rice Gateau (October 3rd) ; 
Cheese (June 8th). 

Things that must not toe Forgotten. 

1. Turn and rub the beef in the brine. 

2. Turn and rub the leg of pork in the liquor. 

3. Cut the sugar-cured ham in half; soak, then boil a portion 
(Note 4, May 27th). 

4. Stew the bones and trimmings of the capon. They will make 
valuable stock for the celery soup to-morrow. 

5. Brush the beef over with a table-spoonful of vinegar, pepper it 
lightly, and hang it in a cool airy place. 



December 3rd, 



Breakfast. 

Savoury Eggs. 

Boiled Ham. 

Hot Blattered Toast. 

Dry Toast. 

Brown and White Bread 

and Butter. 
Porridge. 



Luncheon. 

Ham and Macaroni. 
Cust-ard Sippets. 



Dinner. 

Celery Soup. 

Fillet of Beef Roasted. 

Horseradish Saixce. 

Yorkshire Pudding. 

Potatoes. 

Broccoli. 

Town Pudding. 

Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— Horseradish ; Potatoes ; Apples ; Celery if required ; six ounces 

of good Suet. 
For To-morrow.— Normandy Pippins ; Split Peas. 



Breakfast. — Savoury Eggs (Januaiy 1st) ; Ham boiled yester- 
day ; Porridge (January 25th). 

Luncheon. — Ham and Macaroni (April 3rd) ; Custard Sippets 
(June 10th). 

Dinner. — Celery Soup. — Wash a dozen or more outer sticks of 
celery and boil them till quite tender in as much of the stock made 
from the capon bones as ^^'ill cover them. Stew with them two good- 
sized onions and some strips of bacon rind scalded and scraped- 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 411 

Drain the celery and preserve the liquor. Take out the onions and 
the bacon rind, and rub the celery through a sieve. Melt two ounces 
of butter in a stewpan, mix a dessert-spoonful of corn-flour and a 
dessert-spoonful of flour smoothly with it, add a little of the liquor 
and the celery pulp. Boil a few minutes, and stir the _ soup to keep 
it from getting into lumps, add more liquor to make it as _ thick as 
cream, and season with pepper, salt, and a spoonful of white sugar. 
Pour a pint of boiling milk into the tureen, mix in the soup, and 
serve very hot with crusts of bread cut into dice and fried in a 
separate dish. If there is no white stock in the house water should 
be used instead, for stock is not really needed, and brown stock 
would spoil the colour of the soup. If a little cream were allowed 
the soup would, of course, be much improved ; or as a substitute for 
cream the yolk of an egg mixed with a little milk might be put into 
the tureen and the soup added gradually after wards._ Parsnij) Soup, 
also very good, may be made in the same way, or, if preferred, like 
Cr^cy Soup (January 5th) ; Fillet of Beef Roasted (February 11th). 
Horseradish Sauce. — Grate a young root of horseradish very finely ; 
put with it a pinch of salt and a little more than a table-spoonful of 
vinegar, or as much as will moisten the whole. Add two table- 
spoonfuls of milk or cream, mix well and serve. Some people 
would consider it an improvement if a • large table-spoonful of 
mixed mustard were added. This sauce should be served cold. 
Yorkshire Pudding (November 26th) ; Potatoes (April 7th) ; Broccoli 
(April 25th). Toivn Pudding. — Chop six ounces of suet finely. Mix 
with it half a pound of fine bread crumbs, half a pound chopped apples, 
weighed after being pared and cored, six ounces of moist sugar, and a 
little grated lemon rind. Press the mixture lightly into a buttered 
mould, tie a floured cloth over the top and boil the pudding for four 
hours. It will not need any moisture. Let it stand a minute or two, 
turn it out carefully, and send wine sauce (July 19th) to table with it. 
Cheese (June 8th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Turn and rub the beef in the brine. 

2. Turn and rub the pork in the liquor that surrounds it. 

3. Put six or eight Normandy pippins to soak all night in cold 
water. 

4. Wash a pint of split peas and pui them to soak all night in cold 
neater, and take away any that float or are discoloured. 



412 



A YEAR'S COOKERY, 



December 4th 



Breakfast. 



Boiled Ham. 

Eggs in Brown Butter. 

Hot Buttered Toast. 

Dry Toast. 

Browu aud Wliite Bread and 

Butter. 
Bread and ivrillr . 



Luncheon. 

Boiled Tripe and Ouions. 
Normandy PiiDpins. 



Dinner. 

Brown Soup. 
Boiled Leg of Port. 
Pease Pudding. 
Potatoes. 
Cabbage. 

Newmarket Pudding. 
Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— A pound and a half of dressed Tripe (see Marketing, January 
23rd). If sufficient beef remains this can be dispensed ^vith. Potatoes; 
Cabbage ; Onions ; German Yeast. 

For To-morrow.— Whiting for Breakfast. The fish must be perfectly fresh, 
and must be put into a cool larder till wanted. Order four or five pounds oi 
the Loin of Mutton. The butcher should be asked to bone the joint. 

Breakfast. — Ham boiled December 2nd ; Eggs in BrownButter 
(January 6tli) ; Bread and Milk (January 25th). 

Luncheon. — Boiled Tripe. — Put the dressed tripe into a stewpan 
with boiled water to cover it, and bring the water to a boil ; this is 
done to blanch it. Take it up, scrape it well to cleanse it, and cut it 
into neat pieces. Put it -back into the saucepan with a pint and a 
half of milk, and six good-sized onions cut into quarters. Let the 
milk boil, then draw the saucepan back, and let its contents simmer 
for fully two hours, or till the tripe is quite tender when probed with 
a fork. Take up the tripe and the onions. Mix a table-spoonful of 
flour to a smooth paste with cold water. Stir this into the milk till 
it thickens. Chop the onions, mix them with the sauce, and return 
the tripe to it also for a minute to get hot. Put the tripe on a hot 
dish, pour the sauce over, and serve. If sufficient cold meat 
were left from yesterday Beef ivith Acid Sauce might be served 
instead of the tripe. For this, cut the cold beef into neat 
slices, and put them between two dishes till wanted. Supposing 
there is a pound of meat, peel and chop small two good- 
sized onions ; fry them in a little dripping, dredge a table-spoonful 
of flour upon them, and pour on half a pint of stock, and a table- 
spoonful of vinegar. Add salt and pepper, a lump of sugar, and a 
spoonful of mixed mustard. Simmer the sauce till it is smooth and 
thick. Twenty minutes before the dish is to be served put in the 
pieces of beef, and let them get hot through, but the sauce must on 
no account boil after they are put in. If one or two champignons 
can be stewed with the sauce, so much the better. Normandy Pippins 
(August 16th). 

Dinner. — Brown Soup {see Croiite au Pot, May 25th). Boiled Leg 
of Pork. — Put the pork on the fire in lukewarm water, bring it to 
the boil, let it boil for five minutes, then draw it back and simmer 
very gently for twenty minutes per lb. and twenty minutes over. If 
liked, instead of cabbage, carrots, turnips, or parsnips may be served 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



413 



with the pork. Some people like to have the vegetables boiled in 
the liquor with the pork. If not too salt the liquor can be used for 
making pea soup, or lentil soup ; but it is scarcely suitable for any- 
other kind of soup. Pease Pudding is an acceptable accompaniment 
to this dish. For this drain the peas that were soaked overnight, tie 
them loosely in a cloth, put them in cold water over the fire, and boil 
them for fully two hours, or till tender. Rub them through a sieve, 
mix with them a knob of butter or dripping, a teaspoonful of sugar, 
pepper and salt, and a well-beaten ^gg. Tie the pudding tightly in 
a floured cloth, plunge it into boiling water, and boil quickly for an 
hour. Pease Pudding is very good with boiled beef. Potatoes (April 
7th) ; Cabbage (June 4th) ; Newmarket Pudding (June 2nd) ; Cheese 
(June 8th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Boil the beef that has been in pickle, and press it between two 
dishes (February 23rd). 

2. If any pease pudding were left, it can be used for making pea 
soup to-morrow instead of boiling fresh peas. If there is no peas 
pudding, potato pur^e (January 26th) can be made instead. 

3. Pastry is to be made to-day. Apple and Quince pies (August 
7th) ; Jam Turnovers (September 25th) ; also Sally Lunns (June 4th) ; 
and Seed Cake (August 14th), 

4. If the boiled ham is nearly finished, cut all the meat from the 
bone, mince it finely, and put it between two dishes in a cool place. 



December 5th. 



Breakfast. 


Luncheon. 


Dinner. 


Fried Whiting. 


Cold Pork. 


Pea Soup. 


Ham Toast. 


Brawn Sauce. 


Loin of Mutton Boned and 


Sally Liinns. 


Baked Potatoes. 


Rolled. 


Dry Toast. 


Savoury Kice. 


Potatoes. 


Brown and White Bread 




Stewed Endive. 


and Butter. 




Wyvem Pudding. 


Marmalade. 




Cheese. 


Corn-flour Milk. 







Marketing. 

-Loin of IMutton ordered yesterday ; Potatoes 



two heads of 



For the Day. 

Endive. 

For To-morrow,— A couple of fine Ducks (July 4th) ; Cod's Head and Shoulders 
weighing about six pounds (January 1st and 6th ; see also Note 4, October 
16th) ; a dozen fresh Oysters, or a tin of preserved Oysters ; eight Oranges ; 
Onions ; Sa,ge-leaves ; Apples ; Potatoes ; Brussels Sprouts ; Chestnuts ; 
Celery; a tin of Potted Pheasant; a quarter of a pound of Bacon in 
rashers ; a neck of ]\Iutton ; two pounds of firm Kidney Suet for the 
Pliim Pudding and Mincemeat to be made on Wednesday. 

Breakfast.— Fried Whiting (January 17th) ; Ham Toast, made 
of the remnants of dressed ham (March 28th); Sally Lunns ■ (June 
4th) ; Corn-flour Milk (June 19th). 



414 



A YEAKS COOKERY. 



Luncheon. — Pork served (December 4th); Brawn Sauce (January 
15th) ; Baked Potatoes (May 4th) ; Savoury Rice (June 17th). 

Dinner. — Pea Soup {see Lentil Soup, April 1st) ; Loin of Mutton 
boned and rolled (April 22nd) ; Potatoes (May 6th). Stewed Endive. 
— Pick away the outer leaves, and wash the endive well Put it into 
boiling water, and boil it like cabbage (June 4th) for a quarter of an 
hour, or till it is tender. Press the water from it, chop it finely, and 
salt it. Melt an ounce of butter in a stewpan, mix an ounce of flour 
smoothly with it, and add the chopped endive. Stir and toss it well 
over the fire, and add gradually a gill of cream, or broth if liked, and 
keep stirring it till the sauce is incorporated with the endive. 
Sprinkle a little white sugar on it, add a little butter at the last 
moment, and serve. Endive has a peculiar taste which is not liked 
by every one. Wyvern Puddings (May 9th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Glaze the beef boiled yesterday (March 21st). 

2. Pluck the ducks to be ready for cooking to-morrow. 

3. Put a large cupful of hominy to soak all night in cold water. 

4. Hang the neck of mutton in a cool larder till Monday. 

5. Make a little custard for supper to-morrow (August 10th). 

6. Cleanse and scald the ducks' giblets. Gravy can be made of 
them to-morrow. 

7. Make orange cream with orange garnish for supper to-morrow 
evening (December 6th). 

8. Clear the suet from skin and fibre and chop it till it looks like 
fine oatmeal. Put it into a jar, cover with flour and leave it in a cool 
larder. To chop suet, see Sea Pie (March 14th). 



Sunday, December 6th 



Breakfast. 


Dinner. 


Tea. 


Supper. 


Toasted Bacon. 


Cod's Head and 


Brown and White 


Pressed Beef. 


Potted Pheasant. 


Shoulders. 


Bread and Butter. 


Celery Salad. 


Sally Liinus. 


Oyster Sauce. 


Apple Jelly. 


Apple Pie. 


Dry Toast. 


Roast Ducks. 


Seed Cake. 


Custard. 


Brown and White 


Potato Snow. 




Cheese. 


Bread and Butter. 


Chestnuts and Brus- 






Boiled Hominy. 


sels Sproiits. 
Orange Cream with 

Garnish. 
Cheese. 







Breakfast. — Toasted Bacon (January 19th) ; Potted Pheasant 
{see Potted Grouse, January 7th); SaUy Lunns (June 4th) ; Boiled 
Hominy (February 11th). 

Dinner. — GocVs Head and Shoidders. — When the fish is sent in 
rub a little salt over the inside and the thick part. Next day, just 
before it is to be dressed, wash it quickly, cut oft' the gills and the 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 415 



ends of tbe fins, scrape off the scales without injuring the skin, and 
wipe the inside "wath a cloth dipped in vinegar. Dry the fish, put it 
on the drainer, and plunge it into plenty of well-salted boiling water, 
that has had half a gill of vinegar thrown into it. Boil the fish 
gently (skimming the liquor now and then) till it is done enough, 
which it will be when the eyes start and the flesh will leave the bone; 
it will take about half an hour. It can be kept hot on the drainer, if 
it is not to be served at once, but it will spoil if left in the water. 
Boil the liver and the roe in a separate saucepan, they will be wanted 
to garnish the fish ; or if preferred, cut lemon and horseradish or 
parsley may be used instead ; the liver must not be boiled Avith the 
fish. Send Oyster Sauce (October 16th) to table as an accom- 
paniment. Eoast Ducks (July 26th) ; Potato Snow (April 7th) ; 
Chestnuts and Brussels Sprouts (November 8th). Orange Cream 
and Garnish (prepared yesterday). — Peel four oranges, and put the 
rind in a pint of milk for an hour. Meantime soak three-quarters of 
an ounce of gelatine in two table-spoonfuls of milk. Boil the flavoured 
milk with four table -spoonfuls of sugar, stir in the gelatine, strain the 
cream, and let it go cold. As soon as the cream begins to set, add 
the strained juice of the oranges ; this must not be put in before the 
cream is quite cold. Whisk the cream till it is in bubbles, pour it 
into a damp mould, and put it into a cool place till wanted. Orange 
Garnish. — Pdnse the orange rind already used, it will still have flavour. 
When clear, throw it into half a pint of water, and simmer it till the 
liquor tastes pleasantly. Strain it, and boil it with loaf sugar to a 
clear syrup. Cut two or three of the strips of orange rind into shreds 
and throw them into the syrup. When the cream is turned upon a 
dish, garnish it with the shredded rind, and pour the orange syrup 
over it. If liked, the cream can be poured into a mould with a 
gallipot placed in the middle ; a weight could be put on this to keep 
it down. Of course, when turned out, the cream would be hollow in 
the centre, and this vacancy might be filled with a Compote of 
Oranges, prepared as follows : — Peel four oranges, and divide each 
orange into ten pieces. Pour over the fruit a little thick syrup made 
as directed for Orange Garnish. Let it soak for four hours, and it is 
ready for use. Or, instead of pouring syrup over the fruit, sprinkle 

Eowdered white sugar over the oranges, let them remain for three 
ours, then pour in three table-spoonfuls of brandy, or if preferred, 
port wine, and the compote is ready. Cheese (June 8th). 
Tea.— Seed Cake (August 14th). 

Supper. — Beef boiled December 4th; Celery Salad (Novembei 
15th) ; Apple Pie (August 7th); Custard (August 10th). 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. If any fish or oyster sauce is left, preserve it. It can be made 
into cod pie for luncheon to-morrow. ^ 

2. Preserve also the remains of boiled hominv. 



416 



A YEAR'S COOKERY, 



December 7th. 



Breakfast. 


Luncheon. 


Dinner, 


Eggs on the Dish- 
Potted Pheasant. 
Sally Lunns. 
Dry Toast. 

Brown and White Bread 
and Butter. 


Cod Pie. 
Minced Mutton. 


Crolite au Pot. 
Irish Stew. 
Potatoes. 

Macaroni Pudding. 
Cheese. 


Fried Hominy. 







Marketing. 

For the Day.— Potatoes ; a quarter of a pound of Macaroni. 
For To-morrow.— Three pounds of Jerusalem Artichokes ; order four penny- 
worth, of Cream for to-morrow. 



Breakfast. — Eggs on the Dish. — When there is a close stove in 
use, these can be easily prepared. With an open range, the oven 
wonld need to be used for it. Butter a tin or earthenware dish that 
^vill stand the fire, that can be sent to table, and that has upright 
sides to keep the eggs from spreading. Butter the inside, and break 
the eggs in carefully to preserve them unbroken. Put the dish on the 
top of the stove for a couple of minutes till the whites are set ; 
sprinkle pepper and salt over, and serve. Potted Pheasant {see 
Potted Grouse, January 7th) ; Sally Lunns (June 4th) ; Fried Hominy 
(February 12th). 

Luncheon. — Cod Pie (January 2nd) ; Minced Mutton, made of 
the cold mutton left on Saturday if there were any (January 20th). 

Dinner. — Croilte au Pot (May 25th) ; Irish Stew, made of the 
best end of the neck of mutton bought on Saturday (March 10th) ; 
the scrag end is to be served at luncheon to-morrow. Potatoes (j\[ay 
12th) ; Macaroni Pudding (March 27th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Take one or, if necessary, two shces, the third of an inch thick, 
from the ham already in cut. 

2. Hang the scrag end of mutton in a cool larder. 

3. Make a corn-flour blancmange for dinner to-morrow (June 
15th). 

4. If the plum pudding and the mincemeat are to be made on 
Wednesday, prepare a pound and a half of currants, if there are none 
in the house cleaned and dried. It is a convenient plan to wash 
currants always as soon as they come in from the grocer. If they 
are washed in small quantities when wanted, they are frequently 
either left moist, thus making the pudding or cake hea^^, or they are 
dried quicldy before the fire, thus destroying their flavour. Wash 
the currants in cold water, drain them, sprinkle a little flour upon 
them, rub them, a few at a time, dry in a cloth, then put a small 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 417 



quantity at once at the moutli of a cool oven. When quite dry, turn 
tliem over, pick out any stones there may be, and put them into a jar 
till wanted. 



December 8th. 



Breakfast. i Luncheon. 

Fried Ham. I Scrag end of Mutton Stewed 

Fried Eggs. | with Vegetables, 

Sally Luuns. i Baked Omelet, 

Dry Toast. 

Brown and Wliite Bread 

and Bntter. 
Milk Porridge. 



Dinner. 



Palestine Soup, 
Civet of Eabbit. 
Mashed Potatoes. 
Stewed Celery. 
Corn-flour Blancma uge. 
Lemon Syrup. 
Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— One fine Ostend Rabbit or two Rabbits, if necessary ; Potatoes ; 
Celery ; a small tin of Champignons ; half a poimd of Bacon. If one Rabbit 
only is required, part of the Bacon is for breakfast to-morrow. 

Foi' To-morrow.— Fresh Sheep's Kidneys, one for each pex-son ; Sea Biscuits ; a 
loin of Pork to be pickled for December 11th. 

Breakfast. — Fried Ham (March 5th) ; Fried Eggs (March 5th) ; 
Sally Lunns (June 4th) ; Milk Porridge (June 13th). 

Luncheon. — Scrag end of Mutton (January 14th) ; Baked Omelet 
(August 6th). 

Dinner. — Palestine Soup. — Wash and pare the artichokes and put 
them into a stew^an with a slice of butter, two or three strips of 
bacon rind, and two bay leaves. Cover the pan closely and let the 
artichokes sweat for ten minutes or less. Shake the x")an once or 
t^dce to keep them from sticking. Pour on cold water to cover the 
artichokes, and boil them gently till soft. Pub them through a sieve, 
mix the liquor in which they were boiled \^dth them, and add boiling 
milk to make the pur^e like gruel. Season mth pepper and salt. 
Make the soup hot. Heat the cream separately, and mix the two 
at the moment of serving. If there is any stock made from rabbit 
bones or chicken bones it can be used instead of water. ^ Pveally, 
however, stock is not needed, and the soup is Avhiter when it is not 
used. If the artichokes are old a little sugar should be put with 
them. Civet of Rahhit. — Wash, dry, and cut up one moderate-sized 
rabbit into neat pieces. Cut up a quarter of a pound of bacon also 
into neat rashers. Fry the bacon gently, take it up, and fry the 
rabbit in the same fat. Take up the rabbit, put back the bacon, and 
add an onion, a shallot, a small carrot, a small turnip, a bunch of 
parsley, a sprig of thyme, and a bay leaf. Turn all over in the fat for 
two or three minutes, put back the pieces of rabbit, and add a dozen 
champignons and a pint of stock ; some of that left from the scrag of 
mutton will answer excellently. Season the civet with pei)per and 
salt, and put with it a table-spoonful of flour mixed smoothl^^ witli 
water. Stir it till it boils and simmer for half an hour, or till the 



♦18 



A YEARS COOKERY. 



rabbit is tender. Add a glass of claret and a lump of sugar. Put the 
pieces of rabbit on a dish, pour the sauce over, and serve. Mashed 
Potatoes (May 12th) ; Stewed Celery (December 2nd) ; Corn-tiour 
Blancmange made yesterday; Lemon Syrup (March 19th); Cheese 
(June 8th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Be sure to stew the rabbit bones and trimmings. They will 
make deliciously flavoured stock. 

2. If preferred, milk can be used instead of cream in making the 
Palestine soup. Cream, however, is a very great improvement. 

3. Make a pickle (April 15th), and put the pork into it. 



December 9th 



Breakfast. 

Broiled Kidneys. 

Toasted Bacon. 

Hot Buttered Toast. 

Dry Toast, 

Brown and Wliite Bread 

and Butter. 
Biscuits and MUk. 



Luncheon. 



stewed Giblets. 
Lemon Dumplings. 



Dinner. 

Skate with Brown Butter 

Sauce. 
Boiled Aitchbone of Beef. 
Mashed Turaips. 
Carrots. 
Potatoes. 
Apple Gateau. 
Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— Two sets of fresh Giblets ; half a pound of Suet ; two pounds of 
crimped Skate (January 10th) ; Aitchbone of Beef (May 18th) ; Turnips, Cari'Ots, 
Potatoes ; materials for Plum Puddings and Mince Pies (see Recipes). 

For To-morrow.— Speak for a Cow Heel ; Rolls for breakfast (September 3rd). 



Breakfast. — Broiled Kidneys (January 29th) ; Toasted Bacon 
(January 19th) ; Biscuits and Milk (June 14th). 

Luncheon.— Stewed Giblets (February 6th) ; Lemon Dumplings 
(October 7th). 

Dinner. — Skate with Bro\\m Butter Sauce (February 12th); Boiled 
Aitchbone of Beef (February 23rd); Mashed Turnips (September 
30th) ; Carrots (July 6th) ; Potatoes (April 7th) ; Apple Gateau (Sep- 
tember 24th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Partially prepare the ricG and barley porridge for breakfast 
(Note 6, June 15th). 

2. Turn and rub the pork in the pickle. 

3. Boil the piece of ham that remains (Note 4, May 27th). 

4. See Note 1, February 17th. 

5. It is wise to make the plum puddings and mince-meat earlv in 
December, as suet is very dear at Christmas time. Good plum 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



419 



puddings will keep for twelve montlis. Many housekeepers make 
naK a dozen puddings, boil these, and hang them up till wanted. The 
quantities here given will make a good pudding for about a dozen 
persons. If five or six puddings are to be made the quantities will 
of course need to be proportionately increased. 

Christmas Plum Puddi7ig. — Take some stale crumb of bread, and 
rub it through a wire sieve until there are three-quarters of a pound 
of iDread crumbs ; put these into a bowl, with a quarter of a pound of 
flour and a tea-spoonful of salt, add three-quarters of a pound of the 
chopped suet, and also a pound and a half of muscatel raisins, haK a 
pound of currants (M ote 4, December 7th), picked and dried, six ounces 
of candied peel (orange, citron, and lemon mixed), six or eight bitter 
almonds blanched and pounded, and a table-spoonful of moist sugar. 
Prepare the raisins by cutting each one in halves and removing the 
pips, and the candied peel by slicing it very thinly. Mix these diy 
ingredients thoroughly. Whisk eight good eggs well, stir them into 
the pudding, and add a wine-glassful of brandy. A little milk may 
be put in also if required, but the pudding should be barely moistened, 
or it will be heavy. Take a new stout pudding cloth that has been 
boiled in water ; wring it dry, flour it, and tie the pudding securely 
in it, leaving room for it to swell. Plunge the pudding into boiling 
water, and keep plenty of water boiling round it _ for eight hours. 
When it is necessary to add water, take care that it is boiling. _ After 
taking up the pudding hang it in the cloth in which it was boiled. If 
placed on a dish it will probably be heavy. To make the pudding 
ready for use boil it for a couple of hours till hot through. It should 
stand five minutes after being taken out of the water before it is 
turned out. For a cheaper, but very good plum pudding, see Cottage 
Plum Pudding (June 6th). The plainer pudding will be best made 
when it is wanted. To make mince-meat for pies, see December 23rd. 

6. Put a cupful of haricot beans to soak all night in cold water. 



December lOth 



Breakfast. 


Luncheon. 


Dinner. 


Devilled Eggs. 


Cow Heel with Parsley 


Crecy Soup. 


Boiled Ham. 


Sauce. 


Cold Beef. 


Rolls. 


Apples and Tapioca. 


Potato Salad. 


Dry Toast. 




Mutton Chops Stewed. 


Brown and WMte Bread 




Haricot Beans. 


and Butter. 




Cheese. 


Marmalade. 






Rice and Barley Porridge. 







Marketing. 

For the Day.— Cow Heel ordered yesterday ; two or three pounds of Mutton 

Chops from the hest end of the loin ; Potatoes ; Apples. 
For To-morrow.— A dried Haddock ; "Watercress. 



420 



A YEARS COOKERY. 



Breakfast.— Devilled Eggs (February 27tli) ; Ham boiled yester- 
day : Eolls (September 4th) ; Kice and Barley Porridge (June 15th). 

Luncheon. — Cow Heel with Parsley Sauce (February 20tTi) ; 
Apples and Tapioca (February 18th). 

Dinner. — Cr^cy Soup (January 5th); Beef served December 
9th ; Potato Salad (April 12th) ; Mutton Chops, stewed in their own 
gravy (May 29tli); Haricot Beans (June 20th). Red Rice {Rothe 
Griitze. — A Danish dish. This may be made either with the juice 
of fresh fruit or with dissolved red currant jelly, or raspberry jam. 
It is best when fresh raspberries are used for it. Take a pint and 
a half of red currants and half a pound of raspberries with a quart of 
water. Stew the currants gently till the juice flows freely, add the 
raspberries just before the currants are ready. Strain the juice 
measured, sweeten it to taste, and add corn-flour or ground rice in the 
same quantity as for a Blancmange (June 15th), or a Mould (Augaist 
7th). Pour the preparation into a damp mould. When cold, turn it 
upon a glass dish and serve cream -vvith it, if permitted. To make 
red rice with jam, stew the contents of a pound jar of raspberry jam 
with enough water to fill a quart mould. Strain the juice, sweeten 
it, put a few drops of lemon juice with it, add cochineal to colour 
it, and proceed as before. Cheese (June 8th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Turn and rub the pork in the pickle. 

2. Make a blancmange for dinner to-morrow. {See the recipe 
December 11th.) 

3. Soak a cupful of lentils all night in cold water. 



December Nth 



Breakfast. 

Dried Haddock. 

Boiled Ham. 

Hot Buttered Toast. 

Dry Toast. 

Brown and White Bread 

and Butter. 
Watercress. 
Milk Toast. 



Luncheon. 

Sheep's Head. 

Baked Batter Pudding. 



Dinner. 

Fillets of Sole Saut^a. 
German Pork. 
Baked Potatoes. 
Lentils. 
Blancmange. 
Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— A Sheep's Head ; a pair of thick Soles (January 3rd) ; Potatoes : 
Red Cabbage ; German Yeast ; Bottled Cherries. Order Cream if allowed 
(see December 12th). 

For To-morrow.— Sardines (January 12th) ; half a pound of Macaroni. 



Breakfast. — Dried Haddock (January 27th) ; Ham boiled (De- 
cember 9th) ; Milk Toast (June 17th). 

Luncheon. — Sheep's Head (January 31st) ; Baked Batter Pud- 
ding (February 5th). 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



421 



Dinner. — Sole, Fillets of, Saut6s (January 4tli) ; Pork, German 
way of cooking (April ISth) ; Baked Potatoes (May 4th) ; Lentils 
(March 2nd). Blancmange. — Soak an ounce of gelatine for an hour 
in a quarter of a pint of milk. Blanch ten bitter almonds and six 
sweet ones. Put these, with three inches of lemon rind, into a pint 
and a quarter of milk for a couple of hours, then pour the milk into a 
stewpan and add a little loaf sugar. Boil the milk, pour it upon the 
soaked gelatine, and strain the mixture into a jug. Let it stand, 
stirring it occasionally till cold. Pour the blancmange into a damp 
mould carefully, so as to keep back any sediment there may be, and 
let it stand till set. If cream, or half cream and half milk, be per- 
mitted, the blancmange will be much improved ; Cheese (June 8th). 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Pastry is to be made to-day (April 17th) ; open jam tart and 
cherry pie made of bottled fruit (August 7th) ; Scones (August 26th) ; 
Gateau Turc (November 2uth). 

2. Partially prepare the rice milk for breakfast {see Note 3, June 
17th). 

3. Cut all that remains from the ham bone. Ham toast, and ham 
and macaroni mould may be made of it to-morrow. 



December 12th. 



Breakfast. 

Sardines. 

Ham Toast. 

Scones. 

Dry Toast. 

Brown and "White Bread 

and Butter. 
Rice Milk. 



Luncheon. 



Ham and Macaroni. 
Custard Sippets. 



Dinner. 

Potato Puree. 

Pork Cutlets with Appla 

Sauce. 
Baked Potatoes. 
Stewed Celery. 
Brown Bread Pudding. 
Cheese. 



Marketing. 
For the Day.— Potatoes ; Apples ,* Celery; half apoiind of Macaroni. 
For To-morrow.— Bloaters. A pair of thick Soles (January 3rd) ; a couple of 

Fowls (June 29th) ; a quarter of a pound of Bacon in rashers ; Potatoes ; 

Apples ; Celery ; Brussels Sprouts ; two pounds of good Pork Sausages, or 

meat to make the same (March 18th) ; a foiir pound tin of AustraUan Meat, 

and a tin of Collared Tongue for Monday. 

Breakfast. — Sardines (January 12th) : Ham Toast (March 28th) j 
Scones (May 23rd) ; Rice Milk (June 17th). 

Luncheon. — Ham and Macaroni (April 3rd); Custard Sippets 
(June 10th). 

DiNNEE. — Potato Pur^e (January' 26th) ; Pork Cutlets with 
Apple Sauce (January 30th) ; Baked Potatoes (May 4th) ; Stewed 
Celery (December 2nd) ; Brown Bread Pudding (July 20th) ; Cheese 
f June 8th). 



422 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Pluck the fowls for dinner to-morrow, and cure tlie feathers 

(February 28th). 

2. Make an apple mould for dinner to-morrow (September 15th). 

3. Prepare the Whi2)2Md Cream^ if this is to be allowed. The 
cream will be firmer if made the day before it is wanted. Put half 
a pint of double cream — that is, cream that has stood twenty-four 
hours— into a cold basin, sweeten and flavour it, and whisk it in a 
cold place with an ordinary whisk till it froths on the top. Skim 
off this froth and lay it at once on a fine sieve, and whisk again until 
the cream is finished. Take away the liquid that drains from the 
froth and reserve it for the celery sauce. When the froth has thus 
stood for some hours it will be ready for piling in the centre of a dish, 
or for any purpose of a similar kind. If the cream becomes very 
thick whilst it is being whisked, put a spoonful of cold water with it. 
The same remedy should be adopted if the cream should "turn," or 
become slightly cracked : this mischance frequently occurs, especially 
in hot weather. The quantity of whipped cream may be increased 
by beating the w^hite of an ^g^, to froth and adding it to the cream 
before beginning to whisk it. 

4. The Celery Sauce may be partly made to-day to save time to- 
morrow. Proceed as for celery soup (December 3rd), decreasing the 
proportions for the quantity required. Celery Sauce should be 
thicker than soup ; it should be of the consistency of very thick gruel. 
The outer sticks of three or four heads of celery will be needed to 
make sauce for a pair of fowls. When it is made of the outer sticks 
of celery a little cream should be stirred in to enrich and whiten it. 
The best part of the celery will be wanted for chicken salad. This 
sauce is spoiled by a mixture of seasoning. 



Sunday, December 13th 



Breakfast. 


Dinner. 


Tea. 


Supper. 


Bloaters. 


Sole an Gratin. 


Brown and White 


Chicken Salad. 


Poached Eggs on 


Boiled Fowls. 


Bread and Butter. 


Cherry Pie. 


Toast. 


Celery Sauce. 


Strawberry Jam, 


Cheese. 


Scones, 


Baked Sausages, 


Gateau Turc. 




Dry Toast. 


Potatoes. 






Brown and White 


Bi-ussels Sprouts. 






Bread and Bvitter. 


Apple Mould. 






Corn-flour Milk. 


Whipped Cream. 
Cheese. 







Breakfast. — Bloaters (January 3rd) ; Poached Eggs on Toast 
(February 6th) ; Scones (May 23rd; ; Corn-flour Milk (June 19th). 

Dinner. — Sole au Gratin (ISIay 3rd). Boiled Foivls ivith Celery 
Sauce. — Follow the recipe given (September 6th), but use celery 
instead of egg sauce. Pour a little of the sauce over the birds and 
send the rest to table in a tureen. Baked Sausages. — Sausages are 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



excellent baked instead of being fried. They should be put into a 
greased dripping tin and cooked in a gentle oven for about an hour 
and a half, when they will be done through without being burnt. For 
Gravy, see Liver and Bacon, January 17th; Potatoes (May 12th); 
Brussels Sprouts (June 4th) ; Apple Mould (September 15th) ; 
Whipped Cream (December 12th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 

Tea. — Gateau Turc (November 20th). 

Supper. — Chicken Salad made of the remains of boiled Fowl, and 
the Celery reserved from Celery Sauce (August 30th) ; Cherry Pie 
(August 7th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1 , Preserve the liquor the fowls were boiled in, and also the bonea 
and trimmings of the fowls. 

2. Put a cupful of German lentils to soak all night in cold water. 



Breakfast. 



December 14th. 



Collared Tongue. 

Toasted Bacon. 

Scones. 

Dry Toast. 

Brown and White Bread 

and Butter. 
Milk Toast. 



Luncheon. 

Australian Meat, Cold. 
Baked Potatoes. 
Savoury Rice. 



Dinner. 



Gravy Soup. 
Stewed Steak. 
Potatoes. 
Boiled Lentils. 
Apple Dumpling. 
Clieese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— Three pounds of tender Steak (January 1st), cut evenly, and 

about one and a half inches thick ; half a pound of Suet ; Potatoes ; Apples. 
For To-morrow.— A di-ied Haddock. 



Breakfast. — Collared Tongue (Note 2, January 3rd) ; Toasted 
Bacon (January 19th) ; Scones (May 23rd) ; Milk Toast (June 17th). 

Luncheon. — Australian Meat (February 4tb) ; Baked Potatoes 
(May 4th) ; Savoury Rice (June 17th). 

Dinner. —Gravy Soup (September 22nd) ; Stewed Steak (January 
31st) ; Potatoes (April 7th) ; Boiled Lentils (^Slarch 2nd) ; Apple 
Dumpling {see Red Currant Dumpling, July 19th) ; Cheese (June 
8th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Put half a pound of prunes to soak all night in cold water. 



left 



2. Reserve any pieces of steak, and any cold potatoes that may b« 



424 



A YEAE'S COOKERY. 



December 15th. 



Breakfast* 



Dried Haddock. 
Collared Tongue. i 

Hot Buttered Toast. j 

Dry Toast, ! 

Brown and White Bre^d I 
and Butter. I 

Oatmeal Porridge, I 



Luncheon. 

Savoury Hasli of Australian 

Meat. 
Stewed Prunes. 



Dinner. 



Croflte an Pot. 
Civet of Rabbit. 
Potatoes. 
Stewed Celery. 
Leche Cveme. 
Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— One fine Ostcnd Rabbit, or two Rabbits if required (January 

2J:th) ; half a pound of Ratafias ; Potatoes ; Celery. 
For To-morrow.— INIuffins (January 29th) ; half a pound of Macaroni ; Dried 

Sprats, a bundle for each person; a well-hiuig Shoulder of Mutton, not 

too fat. 



Breakfast. — Dried Haddock (January 27tli) ; Collared Tongue 
(Note 2, January 3rd) ; Porridge (January 25tli). 

LuNCHEOis. — Savoury Hash made of the remains of Australian 
Meat (February 5th) ; Stewed Prunes (February 27th), 

Dinner. — Croilte au Pot (May 25th) ; Civet of Rabbit (December 
8th) ; Potatoes (April 7th); Stewed Celery (December 2nd) ; Leche 
Creme (May 7th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Excellent stock can be made of the rabbit bones. 

2. Pot all that is left of the collared tongue ; it can be served at 
breakfast to-morrow (Note 5, September 26th). 



December 16th 



Breakfast. 


Luncheon. 


Dinner. 


Potted Tongue. 


Scotch Collops. 


Haddock Stuffed and Baked, 


Dried Sprats. 
Muffius. 


Italian Macaroni. 


Roast Shoulder of Mutton, 
Brown Gravy. 


Dry Toast. 




Potatoes. 


JBrown and White Bread 




Savoys. 


and Butter. 




Rice Gateau, 


Marmaliide. 




Cheese. 


Bread ajid Milk. 







Marketing. 

For the Day. — A pound and a half of Buttock Steak (January 1st) ; a 
good-sized fresh Haddock (September 4th) ; a quarter of a pound of Suet; 
Potatoes ; Onions ; Savoys. 

For To-morrow.— Small Soles "Slips" for breakfast (January 3rd); Hominy, ii 
not in the house (February 10th). 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



425 



Breakfast. — Potted Tongue (September 26tli) • Dried Sprats 
(February 28th) ; Muffins (January SOth) ; Bread and Milk (January 
25th). 

Luncheon. — Scotch Collops (January 9th) ; Italian ^lacaroni 
(July 7th). 

Dinner. — Haddock Stuffed and Baked (September 4th). Roast 
Should or of Mutton. — When the family is small, a shoulder of mutton 
may, with advantage, be served hot twice. The first day, roast, and 
serve it in the usual way (jSIarch 4th), and get the carver to cut the 
meat from the shank end, not higher than that part of the joint where 
the bone juts out. The next day trim away the fat on the outer edge 
to make the joint a neat oval shape. Remove the skin, brush the 
surface of the meat with beaten ^dgg., and sprinkle nicely seasoned 
bread-crumbs thickly over it. Bake it in a moderately heated oven 
till it is hot through. It will take about an hour and a quarter. 
Make some good Avell-flavoured brown gravy of stock (October 6th) ; 
pour a little of this round the joint, and send the rest to table in a 
tureen. Potatoes Browned (October 18th) ; Savoy (June 4th) ; 
Rice Gateau (October 3rd) ; Cheese (June Sth). 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Put a large cupful of hominy to soak all night in cold water. 

2. Soak also a cupful of white haricot beans in cold water. 



December 17th. 



Breakfast. 



Baked Slips. 

Boiled Eggs. 

Hot Buttered Toast. 

Diy Toast. 

Brown and WMte Bread 

and Butter. 
Boiled Hominy. 



Luncheon. 



stewed Giblets. 
Rice and Clieese. 



Dinner. 

Haricot Puree. 
Shoulder of Mutton. 
Brown Gravy. 
Boiled Broccoli. 
Potato Snow. 
Apple Gateau. 
Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— Two, or if required, three, sets of Fowls' or Ducks' Giblets : these 
must be quite fresh ; Broccoli ; Potatoes ; Apples ; a quarter of a pound 
of Suet. 

For To-morrow.— A tin of Sardines (January 12th) ; Potted Grouse (January 
7th) ; a two pound tin of Tomatoes ; Watercress. 

Breakfast. — Baked Slips (January 7th) ; Boiled Eggs (January 
5th) ; Boiled Hominy (February 11th). 

Luncheon. — Stewed Giblets (February 6th) ; Rice and Cheese 
(February 18th). 

Dinner.— Haricot Pur6e (March 9th) ; Shoulder of Mutton 
(December 16th) ; Broccoli (April 25th); Potato Snow (April 7th); 
Apple Gateau (September 24th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 



426 A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



Thinj2:3 that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Preserve any boiled liominy that may be left. 

2. Render down all that is left of mutton fat (February 19th> 



December 18th. 



Breakfast. , Luncheon, , Dinner. 



Sardines. Toad in the Hole. 

Potted Grouse, I Tomatoes on Toast, 

Hot Buttered Toast. | 

Dry Toast. 

Brown and "Wliite Bread 

and Butter. 
Fried Hominy. 



Sliced Cod. 
Pork k ritalienne. 
Stewed Celery. 
Potato Mould. 
Apple Pie. 
Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— One pound and a half of Buttock Steak ; three or four slices of 
Cod (-January 1st) ; a small Leg of fresh Pork, weighing not more than four 
pounds ; Celery ; Potatoes ; Apples ; a pennyworth of German Yeast. 

For To-morrow.— Watercress. If a turkey is to be cooked on Christmas Day, it 
should, if the weather be cold, be bought at once, and allowed to hang in a 
cool larder ; a young plump bird should be chosen. Hen birds are to be 
preferred for boiling, cock birds for roasting. Suet for the Forcemeat should 
also be bought. If a Sirloin of Beef is to be served on Christmas Day, it 
should be ordered of the butcher in good time. A Hare for the Sunday after 
Christmas Day. 



Breakfast, — Sardines (January 12th) ; Potted Grouse (January 
7th) ; Fried Hominy (February 12th). 

Luncheon, — Toad in the Hole (January 15th) ; Tomatoes on 
Toast (March 16th) ; half the contents of the tin will probably be 
sufficient for this dish. 

Dinner. — Sliced Cod (January 1st). Pork a V Italienne. — Roast 
the pork in the usual way (March 4th), and serve it with sauce 
a ritalienne prepared as follows : — Rub a small saucepan with garlic, 
melt an ounce of butter in it, and throw in two shallots finely minced. 
Shake them over the fire till soft, then dredge a dessert-spoonful of 
flour over them, and add a quarter of a pint of stock, a table-spoonful 
of vinegar, a tea-spoonful of bruised capers, half a spoonful of mixed 
mustard, six peppercorns, and six drops of anchovy essence. Simmer 
the sauce gently for a quarter of an hour, strain it, put a spoonful of 
sherry into it, and serve in a tureen. Stewed Celery (December 
2nd); Potato Mould (October 23rd) ; Apple Pie, made to-day. Cheese 
(June 8th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Put a cupful of German lentils to soak all night in cold water. 

2. Partially prepare the rice milk for breakfast to-morrow (Note 
3, June 17th). 

3. Pastry is to be made to day (April 17th) ; Apple and Quince 
Pies (August 7th); also Seed Cake (August 14th), Vienna Bread 
(August 26th). 



A YEAIVS COOKERY. 



427 



December 19th. 



Breakfast, 



Eggs in Sunshine. 

Potted Grouse. 

Vienna Bread. 

Dry Toast. 

Brown and White Bread 

and Butter. 
Watercress. 
Bice and Barley Porridge. 



Luncheon. 

Minced Pork. 

Yorkshire Pudding baked 
in tins. 



Dinner. 



CrecytSoup. 

Sausages and Lentils. 

Potatoes. 

Brown Bread Pudding. 

Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— Three pounds of the best Pork Sausages, or fresh Pork to make 

the same : Potatoes ; Carrots. 
For To-morrow.— Fresh Sheep's Kidneys ; two ribs of Beef, boned and ro'led 

(January 10th) ; Jerusalem Ailichokes ; Potatoes; Endive; materials for a 

salad for supper on Sunday; six ounces of firm Suet; a Melton Mowbray 

Pork Pie for Monday. 



Breakfast. — Eggs in Sunsliine (July 15tli). This can be made 
of the remains of tinned tomatoes. Potted Grouse (January 7th) ; 
"Vienna Bread (iVugust 26th) ; Bice and Barley Porridge (June 15th). 

Luncheon. — J>Iinced Pork (April 20th) ; Yorkshire Pudding 
(November 26th). 

Dinner, — Cr6cy Soup (January 5th); Sausages and Lentils 
(April 4th) ; Potatoes (October 23rd) ; Brown. Bread Pudding (July 
20th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. To save time to-morrow, stew the artichokes to-day and rub 
them through a sieve. 

2. For the same purpose chop the suet and prepare the bread- 
crumbs for the Golden Pudding. 

3. The remains of cold pork or of any cold meat may be made 
into a mould for breakfast, following the recipe given for CaK's Head 
Mould (April 20t]i). 



Sunday, December 20th 



Breakfast. 

Broiled Kidneys, 
Savoury Eggs. 
Vienna Bread. 
Dry Toast. 
Brown and White 
Bread and Butter. 
Milk Porridge. 



Dinner. 

Palestine Soup. 
Rolled Ribs of Beef. 
Mashed Potatoes. 
Stewed Endive. 
Golden Pudding. 
Cheese. 



Tea. 

Vienna Bread. 
Brown and Wliite 
Bread and Butter. 
Plum Jam. 
Seed Cake. 



Supper. 



Cold Beef. 
Salad. 
Apple Pie, 
Clxeese. 



Breakfast. — Broiled Kidneys (January 29th) ; Savoury Eggs 
(January 1st) ; Vienna Bread (August 26th) ; Milk Porridge (June 
I3th). 



42S A YUAR'S COOKERY. 

DiNNEE. — Palestine Soup (December 8th); Roast Beef (March 
4th) ; Mashed Potatoes (Alay 12th) ; Stewed Endive (December 5th); 
Gokien Pudding (May 4th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 

Tea.— Vienna Bread (August 26th) • Seed Cake (August 14th). 

SuppEii.— Salad (March 13th) ; Apple Pie (August 7th). 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Put any Golden Pudding that may be left on a clean dish. It 
can be served at luncheon to-morrow. 

2. If there is any mashed potato remaining it also should be 
preserved 



December 21st. 



Breakfast. i Luncheon. 

Melton Mowbray Pork Pie. I Shepherd's Pie. 



Eggs on the Dish, 

Vienna Bread. 

Dry Toast. 

Brown and Wliite Bread 

and Butter. 
Milk Toast. 



Golden Pudding Rechauif6. 



Dinner. 



Croftte au Pot. 

Whole Neck of Mxitton 

stewed with Vegetables. 
Potato Snow. 
Lemon Pudding. 
Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— A whole Scrag of Mutton (February 9th) ; Turnips ; Carrots ; 

Potatoes ; Onions ; six ounces of Suet. 
For To-morrow.— Bloaters ; half a pound of German Sausage ; Watercress. 

Breakfast. — Pork Pie bought on Saturday ; Eggs on the Dish 
(December 7th) ; Vienna Bread (August 26th) ; Milk Toast (June 
17th). 

Luncheon. — Shepherd's Pie (January 12th); Golden Pudding 
(March 6th). 

Dinner.— Croilte au Pot (May 25th) ; ISIutton Stewed (February 
10th); Potato Snow (April 7th); Lemon Pudding (August 12th); 
Cheese (June 8th). 

Things that must not be 5'orgotten. 

1. If any mutton be left it can be cut from the bone, and minced 
for luncheon to-morrow. 

2. Be sure to keep the bloaters apart from everything else in the 
larder. 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



429 



December 22nd. 



Breakfast 


Luncheon. 


Dinner. 


Bloaters. 


Miuced Mutton. 


Baked Cod. 


German Sausage. 


Custard Sippets, 


Boiled Eabbit. 


Hot Buttered Toast. 




Liver Sauce. 


Dry Toast. 




Bacon Kolls. 


Brown and White Bread 




Potatoes. 


and Butter. 




Baked Batter Pudding 


Watercress. 




with Jam. 


Corn-flour Milk. 




Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— About three pounds of Cod from the middle of the flsh ; two fine 
Ostend Rabbits (January 24th) ; a pound of Bacon in rashers ; Potatoes. 

For To-morrow.— A Bath Chap ; Anchovies, if not in the house ; MulHns ; a 
pennyworth of small Salad. 

Breaktast. — Bloaters on Toast (March 24th) ; German Sausage 
(June 6th) ; Corn-flour Milk (June 19th). 

Luncheon. — Minced Mutton (January 20th) ; Custard Sippets 
(June 10th). 

DiNNEE. — Baked Cod {see Baked Hake, September 1st). Boiled 
Rabbits (March 6th). Liver Sauce. — Onion sauce (October 14th) is 
usually served with boiled rabbit, but when the flavour of onion is 
objected to liver sauce may be taken instead. Of course the livers 
must be perfectly sweet, but so also must be the rabbits. Wash the 
livers, boil them gently for half an hour, then chop them finely, or 
rub them through a sieve. Season the pulp with pepper and salt. 
IMelt an ounce of butter in a small stewpan, mix half an ounce of 
flour smoothly with it, and add the third of a pint of milk and water. 
Stir the sauce till it boils, add the chopped liver, and serve. When 
good sauce is wanted, milk alone may be used instead of milk and 
water, or two or three table-spoonfuls of cream may be stirred into 
the sauce. Bacon Rolls (July 19th) ; Potatoes (May 12th) ; Baked 
Batter Pudding (February 5th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 



Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Preserve the liquor in which the rabbits were boiled. Excellent 
souj) may be made from it. 

2. Soak and boil the Bath chap for breakfast (Note 1, August 
25th). 

3. Fillet the anchovies, and pick and dry the small salad (Note 4, 
January 17th). 

4. Take care of any cold fish that may be left. 

5. Soak two table-spoonfuls of tapioca in water. 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



December 23rd. 



Breakfast. f Luncheon. 

Bath Cliap. I Fish Cakes. 

AnchoAries and Hard-boiled , Tapioca and Appleg. 

Eggs. 
Mviffins. 
Dry Toast. 
Brown and White Bread 

and Butter, 
Porridge. 



Dinner. 



Celery Soup. 
Irish Stew. 
Potatoes. 

Newmarket Pudding. 
Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— A Neck of Mutton, not too fat ; Potatoes ; Apples. 
For To>morrow.— Dried Haddock. 

Breakfast. — Bath Chap (Note 1, August 25th) ; Anchovies and 
hard-boiled Eggs (January 18th) ; Muffins (January 30th) ; Porridge 
(January 25 th). 

Luncheon. — Fish Cakes made of the cold baked Cod (Januaiy 
13th) ; Tapioca and Apples (February 18th). 

Dinner. — Celery Soup (December 3rd) ; Irish Stew (March lOth); 
Potatoes (April 7th); Newmarket Pudding (June 2nd); Cheese 
(June 8th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Put a cupful of green lentils to soak all night in cold water. 

2. If the mincemeat is not already made (December 9th), make it, 
and mince pies to-day. To make Mince Meat. — Chop a pound ot 
suet till it looks like oatmeal, put with it four ounces of lean beef 
that has been gently stewed till tender, then minced, a pound of 
muscatel raisins, stoned and chopped, three-quarters of a pound of 
currants, a pound of moist sugar, four ounces of mixed candied peel 
finely shred, a lemon freed from the white pith and chopped small, 
one pound of apples chopped, a tea-spoonful of mixed spice, made up 
of powdered cinnamon, powdered cloves, and grated nutmeg, a glass 
of brandy, and a glass of port ; the brandy and port should be added 
List of all. Mince meat that is to be kept some days should be put 
into a stone jar, and have a brandied paper placed on the top. It 
should be stirred up every three days, and kept in a cool place. To 
make Mince Pies. — ]\Iake^ a little rough Puff Paste (iMay 29th), roll 
this out till very thin, with it line some small patty pans that have 
been well buttered, moisten the edges with water, place a spoonful of 
the mince in the middle, and cover this with pastry again. Press the 
edges together, ornament them by pressing the prongs of a small fork 
upon them, and make a slit in the middle of the patty to allow the 
steam to escape. Bake in a moderate oven. Before serving the 
mince pies, remember to make them very hot 



A YEARS COOKERY. 



431 



December 24th 



Breakfast. 



Bath Chap. 

Dried Haddock. 

Hot Buttered Toast. 

Drj' Toast. 

Browu and White Bread 

and Butter. 
Bread and Milk. 



Luncheon. 

Poor Man's Gk)0se. 
Baked Apples. 



Dinner, 



Lentil Soup. 
Cui-ried Fowl. 
Boiled Eice. 
Greens. 

Marmalade Bread and But- 
ter Pudding. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— A pound and a half of Pig's Fry (February 7th) ; a gtiod-slzed 
Fowl, or two Fowls, if required ; Apples ; Potatoes ; Greens, 

For To-morrow.— The Sirloin of Beef ordered some days ago ; three pounds of 
fresh Pork Sausages ; Chestnuts ; Artichokes ; Potatoes ; Brussels Sprouts ; 
Celery ; a Pork Pie for breakfast to-morrow ; the Turkey is supposed to be in 
the house ; haK a pound of IMacaroui; six pennyworth of Cream for the Soup. 

Breakfast. — Bath Chap (Note 1, August 25th) ; Dried Haddock 
(January 27th) ; Bread and Milk (January 25th). 

Luncheon. — Poor Man's Goose (February 7th) ; Baked Apples 
(February 9th). 

Dinner. — Lentil Soup (April 1st) ; Curried Fowl (see Curried 
Babbit, July 16th); Boiled Rice (July 21st); Greens (June 4th); 
Marmalade Bread and Butter Pudding (June 2nd); Cheese (June 8th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Put a cupful of hominy to soak all night in cold water. 

2. Pluck and truss the turkey ready for to-morrow. 

3. If pastry and breakfast cakes are wanted, they should be made 
to-day. Fruit Pies (August 7th) ; Teacakes (August 26th). 

4. It very often happens that plum pudding and mince pies are 
too rich for the digestive powers of one or two of the Christmas guests. 
When this is likely to be the case, a simpler dish such as Apple 
Mould (September 15th), may be provided, and this should be made 
to-day. 

December 25th: 

{Christmas Bay,) 



Breakfast. 


Luncheon. 


Dinner. 


Meltou Mowbray. 


Macaroni and Bacon, 


Palestine Soup. 


Buttered Eggs. 


Stewed Cheese. 


Roast Turkey. 


Teacakes. 




Sausages. 


Drv Toast. 




Potatoes. 


Brown and White Bread 




Brussels Sprouts and Chest. 


and Butter. 




nuts. 


Boiled Hominy. 




Plum Pudding. 
Mince Pies. 
Apple Mould. 






Cheese. 



Breakfast. — Pork Pie bought yesterday; Buttered Eggs (January 
I6th) ; Teacakes (February 14th) ; Boiled Hcminy (February 1.1th). 



432 A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



Luncheon. — Macaroni and Bacon (January 27tli) ; Stewed Cheese 
(]\Iay 5th). 

Dinner. — Palestine Soup (December 8th). Eoast Turkey. — Stuff 
the breast of the Turkey with good veal forcemeat (June 27th). Tie 
a buttered paper over the breast, and hang it with the legs up before 
a clear fire. Baste it well (unless this is done, the flesh is apt to be 
dry), and roast it till the steam draws to the fire. Half an hour 
before it is done enough, remove the paper, and rub a little butter 
upon it. Send good Brown Gravy (October 18th), Bread Sauce 
(October 18th), and Baked Sausages (December 13th) to table. It 
is scarcely possible to say how long the bird would take to roast, 
because turkeys vary so very much in size. A small turkey would 
need an hour and a half, a moderate sized one, two hours and a half, 
a large bird would take four or five hours. If preferred, the turkey 
may be stufi'ed with Chestnut Forcemeat instead of Veal Forcemeat, 
and then Chestnut Sauce will be required. To make Chestnut Force- 
meat. — Prepare about half the quantity of veal stufling that would be 
otherwise needed. Take four or five dozen chestnuts, according to 
the size of the bird ; haK of these will be for forcemeat, and half for 
sauce. Cut the skins, and fry the nuts in a little butter until they 
can be easily peeled ; boil them in gravy till quite tender. Mix half 
the quantity, whole, with the veal forcemeat, and stuff the turkey in 
the usual way. To make Chestnut Sauce. — Mix the boiled chestnuts 
that remain with about half a pint of good brown gravy, and rub them 
through a wire sieve. Make the sauce hot without letting it boil, add 
half a spoonful of white sugar, and a glass of sherry if permitted, and 
serve. Roast Turkey Glazed (]\Iarch 21st), makes a very handsome 
dish for a supper or a cold collation. Boiled TurTcey. — In England, 
turkeys are frequently boiled, instead of being roasted. The instruc- 
tions given for boiling fowls may be followed (September 6th). The 
time required must vary with the size of the bird. In this case, 
Celery Sauce (December 12th), or White Sauce is served with it. To 
make White Sauce. — Melt an ounce of butter in a small saucepan, and 
mix three-quarters of an ounce of flour smoothly with it ; add half a 
pint of white stock (made by stewing rabbit or chicken bones), and 
add a small carrot, three button mushrooms, washed, peeled, and cut 
into slices, and an ounce of lean ham, or two strips of bacon rind, 
scalded and scraped. Stir the sauce till it boils, draw it to the side 
of the stove, and let it simmer gently for twenty minutes. Skim the 
fat off as it rises ; strain the sauce through a napkin, put it back into 
the saucepan, and let it boil again ; add a quarter of a pint of cream, 
and the sauce is ready. These quantities will make about three- 
quarters of a pint of sauce. Potatoes (April 7th) ; Brussels Sprouts 
and Chestnuts (November 8th) ; Plum^ Pudding (December 9th). 
Let the pudding stand ten minutes after it is taken out of the water. 
Turn it upon a dish, cut a piece out of the top, and just before putting 
the dish upon the table, pour haK a wine-glassful of brandy into the 
hole, and set this alight. The brandy should be lighted at thQ vpry 



A YEARS COOKERY. 433 



last moment, not only because it quickly goes out, and also for fear of 
accidents. Mince Pies (December 23id) ; Apple Mould (September 
ioth) ; Cheese (June 8th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Ample provision is usually made for Christmas Day. In order 
to prevent waste, everything that is left should, as soon as done with 
be put in the larder to be dealt with to-morrow. 

2. If the legs of the turkey were left, prepare them for deviUing 
(January 14th), they can be served at breakfast to-morrow. 



December 26th. 



Luncheon. I Dinner. 



Breakfast. 

Devilled Dnimsticks. 

Sausages. 

Teacakes. 

Dry Toast. 

Brown and WMte Bread ■ Elegant Economist's Pud- 

and Butter. I ding. 

Pried Hominy. j Cheese. 



Kromeskies. | Gravy Soup. 

Jam and Bre"d Pudding Turkey Saut6 aux Cliam- 
(Econom^ical) | pignons. 

1 Cold Potatoes Browned. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— A small tin of Champignons ; half a pound of Bacon cut into 

thin rashers (January 3rd) ; Oranges. 
For To-morrow.— Sardines ; Sea Biscuits; Potatoes; Brussels Sprouts ; Celery : 
four pennyworth of Cream ; materials for Beef Steak and Oyster Pie for 
supper on Sunday (March 26th) ; Red Currant Jelly, if not at hand ; the Hare 
is supposed to be already in the house ; order for December 28th a well-hung 
Leg of Mutton (January 8th) ; a tin of Preserved Oysters ; and a Collared 
Tongue (January 2nd) ; a quarter of a pound of Suet, if not in the house ; 
Turnips ; Carrots ; Potatoes. 

Breakfast. — DeviUed Drumsticks (January 14th) ; Sausages. 
Put any sausages that were left yesterday on a clean dish, and garnish 
with parsley. If preferred, they can be made into Sausage RoUs for 
to-morrow (November 6th) ; Teacakes (February 14th) ; Fried 
Hominy (February 12th). 

Lu-SCHEON.—Kromeskies.—Cvit all the meat from the cold turkey. 
Preserve the neat slices, and put them between two dishes till it is 
time to prepare them for dinner. The broken remnants can be made 
into Kromeskies (July 29th). The bones and trimmings can be stewed 
for gravy sotip to be served at dinner. Jam and Bread Pudding, 
Economical (February 23rd); to be made of pieces of bread that 
are left. 

Dinner.— Gravy Soup (September 22nd) ; Turkey, Saut^ aux 
Champignons (see Chicken Saut6, April 2nd). Cold Potatoes 
Browned.— Cold potatoes boiled whole may be cut into slices, laid in 
a tin slightly greased with dripping, and browned in a quick oven. 
The brisker the oven the better for this purpose. Elegant Econo- 
mist's Pudding (May 12th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 

CO 



iM 



A YEARS COOKERY. 



Things that must not bs Forgotten. 

1. If preferred, Turkey Salad (August 30tli) can be made instead 
of the dishes mentioned aljove ; or the recipe given for Rabbit 
(November 13th) can be follov/ed. 

2. Make the Beef Steak and Oyster Pie (March 26th), and an 
Orange Cream (December 6th), for su])peT to-morrow. 



Scones 



(August 26th) and Gateau Turc (November 20th) may also be made. 



Sunday, December 27th 



Breakfast. 


Dinner. 


Tea. 


Supper. 


Savoury Eggs. 
Sardines. 
Scones. 
Dry Toast. 
Brown and White 
Bread and Butter. 


Celery Soup. 
Jugged Hare, 
Red Currant Jelly. 
Potatoes. 
Brussels Sprouts. 
Vieuuoise Pudding. 
Cheese. 


Scones. 

B)-own and Whits 
Bread and Butter. 
Damson Jam. 
Gateau Turc. 


Beef Steak and 

Oyster Pie. 
Potato Salad. 
Orange Cream. 
Cheese. 


Milk Porridge. 







Breakfast. — Savoury Eggs (January 1st) ; Sardines (January 
12th) ; Scones (May 23rd) ; Milk Porridge (June 13th). 

Dinner. — Celery Soup (December 3rd) ; Jugged Hare (October 
25th) ; Potatoes (May 12th) ; Brussels Sprouts (June 4th) ; Viennoise 
Pudding (July 6th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 

Tea.— Scones (May 23rd) ; Gateau Turc (November 20th). 

Supper.— Beef Steak Pie (^^farch 26th) ; Potato Salad (April 
1 2th) ; Orange Cream (December 6th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Cold potatoes may be used for the potato salad. 

2. Carefully preserve aU the hare that is left. 



December 28th. 



Brea]?^fast. 


Luncheon. 


Dinner. 


Collared Tongue. 


Scalloped Oysters. 


Hare Soup. 


Eggs in Brown Butt-: ■ 


Cake Pudding. 


Boiled Leg of Mutton 


Scones. 




Caper Sauce. 


Dry Toast. 




Potatoes. 


Brown and White Bread 




Mashed Turnips, 


and Butter. 




Carrots. 


Biscuits and Milk. 




Guest's Pudding. 






Cheese. 



Breakfast. — Collared Tongue (January 2nd) ; Eggs in Brown 
Butter (January 6th) ; Scones (May 23rd) ; Biscuits and Milk (June 
14th). 

Luncheon.— Scalloped Oysters (April £7th); Cake Pudding 
(February 4th). 

Pinner.— Hare Soup (January 19th); Boiled J,eg of Mutton 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



435 



(February 23rd) ; Caper Sauce (March 19th) ; Potatoes (May 12 th) ; 
Turnips (September 30th) ; Carrots (July 6th) ; Guest's Pudding 
(April 14th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Be sure that the capers left in the bottle are covered with vinegar. 

2. Partially prepare the rice and barley porridge for breakfast 
(Note 6, June 15th). 



December 29th. 



Breakfast. 



Colliu-ed ToDjiTue. 

Poached Eggs ou Toast. 

Scones. 

Dry Toast. 

Brown and White Bread 

and Butter. 
Rice and Barley Porridge. 



Luncheon. 

Scotch Collops. 
Eiee with Apples and Beet- 
root. 



DiDuer. 



Baked Cod. 

Curried Mutton, 

Boiled Rice. 

Savoy. 

Queen's Pudding. 

Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— About four pounds from the middle of a Cod ; a pound and a half 

of lean Beef ; Savoy ; Apples ; Beetroot. 
For To-morrow.— Half a pound of Bacon in rashers (January SrdJ. 

Breakfast. — Collared Tongue (January 2nd) ; Poached Eggs on 
Toast (February 6th) ; Scones (May 23rd) ; Ptice and Barley Porridge 
(June 15th). 

Luncheon. — Scotch Collops (January 9th); Ptice with Apples and 
Beetroot (January 28th). 

Dinner. — Baked Cod (see Baked Hake, September 1st) ; Curried 
Mutton (May 26th) ; Boiled Rice (July 21st) ; Savoy (June 4th) ; 
Queen's Pudding (August 9th) ; Cheese (June 8th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. If any mutton still remains after slices have been cut off foi 
curry, let it be minced for luncheon to-moiTOW. 

2. Partially prepare the rice milk (Note 3, June 17thX 



December 30th, 



Breakfast. 

Toasted Bacon. 
Eggs on the Dish. 
Hot Buttered Toast. 
Dry Toast. 
Brown and White 

and Butter. 
Eice Milk. 



Luncheon. 

Minced Mutton. 
Custard Sippets, 



Bread 



Einner. 

Croflte au Pot. 
Spanish Stew. 
Potatoes. 
Brussels Sprouts. 
Lemon Pudding. 
Cheese. 



Marketing. 

For the Day.— One fine Rabbit (January 2!th), or two Rabbits, if required; 

Onions ; Potatoes ; Brussels Sprouts ; six.oauces of firm Suet. 
For To-morrow.— Dried Sprats, one bdndle lor each person ; iVIuffins (Januarj 

29tli). 



136 A YEAR'S COOKERY. 

Breakfast. — Toasted Bacon (January 19th) ; Eggs on the Dish 
(December 7th) ; Rice Milk (June 17th). 

Luncheon. — Minced Mutton (January 20th) ; Custard Sippets 
(June 10th). 

Dinner. — Croute au Pot, made of the liquor the leg of mutton 
was boiled in (^lay 25th); Spanish Stew (April 8th) ; Potatoes (April 
7 th) ; Brussels Sprouts (June 4th) ; Lemon Pudding (August 12th) : 
Cheese (June 8th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. Make Custard Blancmange for dinner to-morrow (August 4th). 

2. Pveniember that the mince must not boil in the gravy. 



December 31st. 



Breakfast. 


Luncheon. 


Dinner. 


Dried Sprats. 


Rabbit made Hot. 


Milk Soup. 


Ox Eyes. 


Macaroni Clieese. 


Broiled Steak. 


Muffius. 




Bearnaise Sauce. 


Dry Toast. 




Fried Potatoes. 


Browu and WMto Bread 




Custard Blancmauj,'e. 


and Butter. 




Lemon Syrup. 


Marmalade. 




Cheese. 


Milk Toast. 







Marketing. 
For the Day.— Half a pound of Macaroni ; Rump Steak (Marketing, January 

22nd) ; Potatoes ; Brussels Sprouts. 

Bkeakfast — Dried Sprats (February 28th) ; Ox Eyes (June 
5th) ; Muffins (January 30th) ; Milk Toast (June 17th). 

Luncheon. — Eabbit made hot (November 13th) ; Macaroni 
Cheese (March 20th). 

Dinner. — Milk Soup (January 3rd) ; Broiled Steak (January 
22nd) ; B6arnaise Sauce (March 23rd) ; Fried Potatoes (February 
2nd); Custard Blancmange (August 4th); Lemon Syrup (March 19th); 
Cheese (June 8th). 

Things that must not be Forgotten. 

1. If any little pieces of steak are left, they can either be made 
into Potted Beef (January 23rd), oi made into a Shepherd's Pie for 
luncheon to-morrow (January 12th). 

2. The fat in which the potatoes are fried must be boiling or the 
potatoes will be greasy. 

FRUITS IN SEASON SUITABLE FOR DESSERT IN 
DECEMP.ER. 

Oranges, Apples, Pears, Bananas, Grapes, Melons, Pomegranates, 
Pomeloes, Shaddocks, Cobs, Walnuts, Brazils, Almonds, Barcelonaa, 
Dried Fruits. 



APPENDIX. 



FOOD FOR INVALIDS. 



There are few homes into which sickness does not enter sooner or 
later, and when the misfortune occurs, a demand is made on the 
resources and knowledge of the housekeeper, to p'^ovide food that 
shall sustain and nourish the enfeebled frame of the invalid, repair 
the waste caused by illness, tempt the languid and capricious appetite, 
and be simple and easy of digestion without being insipid and un- 
attractive. It is astonishing how difficult even clever managers some- 
times find it to furnish, for any length of time, suitable food for the 
sick, and so often has this difficulty been experienced that it has been 
said that cookery for the sick is an art by itself, quite distinct from 
ordinary cookery. Condiments and spices are almost always for- 
bidden in these cases ; food must be simple, light, easy to digest, and 
very nourishing, and yet it must be varied, for a mixed diet is as 
necessary for an invalid as it is for the healthy. The difference 
between a rapid and a tardy convalescence very often depends almost 
entirely upon whether or not suitable food is given in sufficient 
quantity and properly prepared. Therefore, although a few sugges- 
tions for Invalid Diet have already been given in this volume, it has 
been deemed advisable to comply with a request frequently made, 
and in this new edition of "A Year's Cookery" to add to the number 
of preparations suitable for the sick and for the convalescent. 

Food that is intended for an invalid should always be made to 
look inviting, so that it shall tempt the eye as well as the palate. All 
appointments should be daintily bright and clean ; the napkin should 
be spotless, the silver and glass should be polished till they sparkle, 
and it is well worth while to bring out the best china for the invalid's 
tray, in order to give everything a festive look. 

Whatever is intended to be served hot for an invalid should be 
very hot, and to prevent its going cold in its passage from the kitchen 
to the bed-room, the dish which contains it should be put on a hot- 
water dish, or over a bowl of boiling water, and covered. 

Whatever is intended to be cold should be very cold, being left in 
the ice box or in a cool place until the moment before serving. Fresh 
fruits, and especially the more perishable sorts, such as strawberries 
and grapes, will be much more refreshing if put on a plate over a 
bowd filled with chopped ice. 

Teachers of nursing almost always insist very strongly on the fact, 
that onlj'^ a small quantity of food should be oflfered to the sick at one 



438 A YEARS COOKERY. 



time, because a quantity of food is calculated to disgust the invalid. 
Acting OR this advice it is to be feared that convalescents do not always 
get as much as they require. Excepting when the stomach is very 
sensitive, as after recovery from typhoid, for instance, and when there 
is great difficulty of digestion, it is safer to err on the side of giving 
too much food, than on the side of giving too little. When food can 
be taken in small quantities only, it ought to_ be taken at short 
intervals, and as much food as can be properly digested is generally 
needed. A doctor ought to be asked how much food he wishes the 
patient to have in twenty-four hours. 

When people are very ill something warm to drink (a cup of tea 
or a glass of milk) should be given quite early, about five or six o'clock 
in the morning, then the breakfast is more likely to be enjoyed when 
it comes. Very few sick people can take solid food first thing. A 
very sick person, unless the doctor gives other orders, should be fed 
at least once in two hours ; a convalescent, who is not yet able to take 
regular meals, should have food at intervals of three hours. Beef tea, 
mutton broth, and similar preparations are not foods, they are stimu- 
lants, and should be regarded as extras rather than as meals. It 
should not be supposed that when a convalescent has had beef tea he 
has had a meal. 

An invalid ought never to be allowed to get faint for want of 
food. If anything occurs to prevent the preparation of an expected 
meal, something else, a cup of beef tea, or a little milk, should be 
given to ward off f aintness. 

Excepting in cases of exhaustion, or when the doctor especially 
orders that food should be given at certain intervals, an invalid should 
never be wakened to be fed. Sleep is one of the best of restoratives. 
At the same time, during a long sleep food should always be prepared, 
so that it may be ready when the patient wakes. 

In the day time food should never be kept in the room where the 
sick person lies. In the night, however, something to drink must be 
put where it can be taken if needed. 

Water. — In almost all illnesses cold water is allowed to be given. 
Water that has been boiled and allowed to go cold may always be 
drunk with safety, but it is very flat and tasteless. The flatness will 
be to some extent removed if the water is passed through a filter. To 
keep water cold it should be put in a stone jar or jug, the vessel being 
wrapped in a coarse cloth kept constantly wet. 

Ice is often a necessity in a sick-room. Unless, however, the nurse 
is quite sure that it is pure, it should not be put into the drinking 
water. A small tiuantity can be best kept by putting it wrapped in 
flannel into a colander or strainer, or similar dish, which will allow 
the water that melts to drain away, then covering it closely. Ice may 
be quite easily broken into chips by putting the point of a darning 
needle or of a strong pin near the edge of a lump, and tapping the 
head slightly. 

Milk. — We have Miss Nightingale's authority for saying, that 



FOOD FOR INVALIDS. 439 

"milk, and the preparations of milk, are most important articles of 
food for the sick," and that there is nearly as much nourishment in 
half a pint of milk as there is in a quarter of a pound of meat. Also, 
there is no doubt that physicians of the present day value milk most 
highly, and in certain diseases they rely on it entirely. Yet there 
is no article of food that needs more care to keep it in good condition, 
for of all foods it takes up impurities most easily. Milk should not 
be left in the can with the cover tightly closed, but should be put 
into an open vessel, and disturbed as little as possible. In cases of 
diarrhoea it should be boiled and allowed to go cold before being 
drunk. Many doctors would say that in all cases milk should be 
boiled before being drunk. If the cream is to be taken off, the milk 
should be put in a closet opening out of a warm room in winter, and 
in a cool cellar in summer, because to rise well cream must either be 
quite warm (55° to 60) or very cold. Milk that is to be used without 
the cream being taken off should be kept at 45° to 50° and stirred 
often. 

A great many people, when ordered to take milk, object to do so, 
because they have found that it disagrees with them, and lies heavy 
on the stomach, to use a common phrase. To prevent this the milk 
should be largely diluted either with water or whey, or mth lime 
water. Milk is indeed so apt to form into clots on the stomach that 
undiluted it is to be regarded as solid food. Mixed with lime water 
it is particularly valuable in cases of obstinate nausea. The propor- 
tion of lime water usually allowed is four tablespoonfuls of milk to 
one of lime water. The proportion of water or whey is two-thirds of 
the bulk of the milk. Lime water can be bought of the druggist. 
Soda water is sometimes substituted for lime water. 

To mahe Whey. — Make a pint of milk lukewarm, stir into it a 
dessertspoonful of essence of rennet, and leave it in a warm place till 
the milk is firm. Boil it, when the curd will separate and can be 
removed, and the whey will be ready for use. Sometimes milk is 
rendered less objectionable to a patient by flavouring it with cinnamon, 
or a few drops of vanilla. 



LIQUID FOODS. 
Broths and Soups. 

In very serious illness, when the patient cannot or is not allowed 
to swallow solid foods, reliance must be placed entirely on liquid 
foods. For these the following suggestions are made. Eecipes for 
Beef Tea, Veal Broth, Mutton Broth, Chicken Broth, and Barley 
Cream will be found on pages 95-6 of this work. 

Beef Juice. — Mince finely a quarter of a pound of fresh raw lean 
beef. Add to it gradually a quarter of a pint of cold water, and 
squeeze it with the back of a silver spoon. Let it stand a few 



440 A YEAMS COOKER V. 

minutes, then press it throuoh a fine wire sieve, add salt, and serve. 
The doctor should be asked if this proportion of Avater is allowable. 

If undiluted beef juice is wanted, cut lean raw beef into thin 
strips, and squeeze in a lemon squeezer. The juice that runs from 
uncooked beef can, of course, be used for this purpose. As much as 
is wanted at one time, and no more, should be made, for beef juice 
will not keep. 

One way of extracting beef juice is_ to cut the meat in squares ; 
place these in a bottle or jar, and set in a pan of boiling water for 
three hours. 

A little Liebig's Extract stirred into undiluted beef juice wuU 
take away the objectionable taste ; a few drops of colouring will 
remove the objectionable colour. 

Beef juice made at home is better and cheaper than any of the 
extracts of meat sold. 

i?de/Je//.y.— Prepare beef tea or beef juice in the usual way, and 
either boil with it a pound of knuckle of veal chopped, or add a tea- 
spoonful of soaked gehitine to each quarter of a pint of tea. The 
gelatine should be boiled until dissolved, and stirred into the beef 
tea, which may be left till firm. Beef jelly spread on toast or thin 
bread-and-butter is sometimes liked. 

Chicken Jelly may also be made of chicken broth stiftened with 
gelatine. 

Chichen and Bice Broth.—Stir tAvo tablespoonfuls of cooked rice 
and a beaten egg into a cupful of hot chicken broth. Stir over the 
fire for a minute, but do not let the soup boil. 

Mutton and Rice Broth.— Make mutton broth in the usual way, 
and allow two tablespoonfuls of boiled rice to a cupful of liquid. 
Stir in an egi? beaten up wdth two table-spoonfuls of milk, and, if 
liked, add a little finely-chopped parsley. As there is always a little 
doubt whether parsley in broth Avill be approved, it is safest to chop 
the parsley and send it up separately. 

Chicken Milk. — Clean a chicken carefully, and cut it into small 
pieces, breaking the bones thoroughly. Put it into an enamelled 
saucepan, Avith two or three peppercorns and a little salt, and the white 
part of a head of celery ; cover it wdth cold water, bring it slowly to the 
boil, then let it simmer gently for four hours or more. Strain into a 
bowl and leave till cold, when the broth should form a stiff, clear 
jelly. Carefully remove the fat from the top by wiping this jelly 
with a napkin which has been dipped into hot water and squeezed 
dry. Take equal quantities of the jelly and uiilk, put into an 
enamelled pan, boil up three times, and strain into a cup. Serve 
either hot or cold, Avith tiny slips of dry toast. 

Chicken Broth made from Giblets. — For the sake of economy 
chicken broth is frequently made from the giblets of the birds, that is, 
the feet, throat, gizzard, and liver. When this is done, the chicken itself 
can lae used to make tAvo separate dishes. Excellent results can in 
this Avay be obtained. Cleanse the giblets thoroughl}^ and be particu- 



FOOD FOB INVALIDS. 441 

larly careful to skin the feet, first pouring boiling water over them, 
and letting tliem lie in it for about a minute, to loosen the skin. 
Put the cleansed giblets into a small saucepan, with a pint of cold 
w^ater, adding, if approved, a sprig of parsley, a small onion, a slice 
of carrot, and a little celery. Simmer very gently for two hours, 
then strain for use. This broth should be a jelly when cold. It may 
be flavoured with a tablespoonful of sherry and a squeeze of lemon- 
juice, or it may have a little sago, rice, or tapioca boiled in it. 

Veal and Tapioca Broth. — Break into small pieces a pound of 
knuckle of veal and simmer in a quart of water until the liquid is 
reduced to one-half. Strain and skim. Turn into a clean saucepan, 
with two tablespoonfuls of soaked tapioca, and stew half an hour. 
Salt to taste. When the tapioca is clear, take off the fire, add an egg 
lightly beaten, and three tablespoonfuls of cream. Stir over the fire 
for two minutes, to set the ^g^., and serve. On no account must 
the broth boil after the egg is added. 

Sometimes, when solid food is not allowed, a little soup is sup- 
porting to the invalid by w^ay of variety. Clear soup made from 
meat only is generally acceptable, and it is very nourishing. In- 
structions for making it will be found on page 274 of this VN^ork, and 
it is to be remembered that the recipe may be followed, and a very 
small quantity of soup can be made, if vrater and all other ingre- 
dients are reduced in the same proportion. For the rest, almost 
any simple soup is available, if only it is made of good materials that 
are nourishing. It is not always necessary to have meat for soups. 
Sometimes, when the patient is tired of broths, the nourishing 
element may be obtained from milk or eggs. Here are suggestions : — 

Celery Soup. — Wash a single head of celery ; cut it up and boil 
it in as much salted water as will cover it. When quite tender rub 
it through a sieve. Mix a dessertspoonful of flour to a smooth 
paste with a little cold water, and pour on it three quarters of a pint 
of hot milk. Season with pepper and salt, add the celery-pulp, and 
a quarter of a pint of cream. Boil up once and serve. It liked, this 
soup may be flavoured wdth nutmeg. 

Artichoke Soup may be made in the same way. Half a bay-leaf 
and a little lean ham, or the bone of a rasher, should be boiled with 
the artichokes. 

Asparagus ^S'o^^p.— Follow the recipe given for celery soup. Cut 
off and put aside the points of the asparagus, throw them into the 
soup, and let them boil till tender, just before serving. 

Onion Soup.— Boil a large onion with two ounces of stale crumb 
of bread. Cook till the onion is tender. Kub the whole through a 
sieve, add a pint of hot milk, season with pepper and salt, and serve. 
Onions are to be used with caution for invalids. Sometimes they 
do good, sometimes they hinder digestion, but in this soup they are 
likely to be as little harmful as can be expected. 

It is most important that soups and broths should never be sent 
to an invalid with globules of grease floating on the surface. Any- 



442 A YEAR'S COOKERY. 

thing of the sort would be very likely to offend a fastidious taste. 
It is generally quite easy to remove fat from broth by skimming. 
If the liquid is allowed to go cold, the fat can be skimmed off with a 
spoon, and, should small particles still remain, pieces of thin blotting- 
paper should be laid for a few seconds on the surface of the broth, 
and to these the grease will adhere. As the pieces of paper, one 
after another, become charged with grease, they should be removed 
until no more grease remains. When broth is hot, to plunge the 
vessel which contains it into cold water for a few minutes will cause 
the fat to rise quickly. 

Broth on Toast. — Cut a slice of stale bread about half an inch 
thick ; take off the crust and toast lightly on both sides. Lay the 
toast in a soup-plate, pour over a cupful of any hot soup, set in the 
oven for a few minutes, and serve hot. 

A Poached Egg laid in half a pint of hot clear soup furnishes a 
very agreeable meal for an invalid. 



SOLID FOODS. 
Fish. 

White flat fish are generally regarded as most suitable food 
for invalids, being less rich, and consequently more digestible than 
round fish, such as salmon, mackerel, and cod. As a rule, the 
simpler modes of cooking are to be preferred to the more elaborate 
ones, and rich sauces are to be avoided. Boiling, broiling, and frying 
are the processes most frequently approved. When fish is to be 
boiled, only a small quantity of water (enough to cover) should be 
used ; much water makes the fish insipid. If the fish can be boiled 
in stock instead of Avater, so much the better ; when fish is filleted, 
the bones may be used to make a little stock for this purpose. 
Well-boiled fish is almost always acceptable. Fried fish, too, is very 
good. It need not be in the least greasy if plenty of fat is used, 
if the fat is made quite hot, and if the fish be laid on grease xtaper 
before being served. 

Oysters are frequently recommended for the use of invalids. 
When fine and fresh, they are best eaten raw, with pepper and 
lemon-juice, and a little brown bread-and-butter. Or, to make 
variety, they may be prepared as follows : — 

Roast Oysters. — Wash the shells well, then lay them, deep shell 
downwards, on the bar of the stove, or on the shovel placed on the 
coals over a clear fire. When the shells open the oysters are done. 
Have ready pepper, lemon -juice, and thin brown bread-and-butter, and 
serve immediately in the shells. When there is an open fire in the 
sick-room, an invalid will sometimes quite enjoy having oysters 
cooked thus in his presence, and they can be served quite hot. 

Stewed Oysters. — Open half a dozen oysters carefully, to save as 



FOOD FOR INVALIDS. 443 

much as possible of the oyster broth. Put with the hitter enough 
milk to cover the oysters ; then scald the oysters in the milk and 
broth, and remove them from the fire the moment the broth begins 
to boil. Strain off the oysters, and thicken the sauce with a level 
dessertspoonful of flour for every gill of liquor. Stir and cook well, 
and add a tablespoonful of cream and a little pepper. Mince the 
oysters, stir thefti into the sauce, cover closely, and cook gently by 
the side of the fire for three minutes, but on no account let the 
preparation boil. Oysters thus prepared may, if liked, be served on 
toast. 

Scalloped Oysters. — Prepare three oysters according to the above 
recipe, reducing every ingredient proportionately. Take a scallop 
shell, butter it inside and line it with fine bread-crumbs. Put in the 
mixture, shake bread-crumbs over the top, and make hot in the 
oven. Serve in the shell. 

A sole, daintily cooked, is almost invariably welcomed by a con- 
valescent. A variety of recipes for cooking the same will be found 
on referring to the Index. 

^Ieats. 

If an invalid has arrived at the stage of convalescence when solid 
food is allowed, the difficulty of providing variety of diet has very 
much diminished, yet it cannot be said that the choice of food is 
even yet very large. Pork and veal must, of course, be avoided ; 
they are not easy of digestion. Beef, also, is known not to be as 
readily digested as is mutton ; and rabbits and similar food are 
generally forbidden. The mode of cooking meat, too, is often a 
subject of doubt. Almost all authorities agree that meats which are 
boiled, broiled, roasted, or stewed, are more wholesome than meats 
which are fried. Frying is understood to be objectionable, because 
fat, in which the meat is cooked, produces an excess of the volatile 
acids, and this renders the food unsuitable for invalids. If, how- 
ever, fried food is required, the portion thus cooked must on no 
account become greasy or burnt. It is quite easy to avoid greasi- 
ness, if a sufficient quantity of fat be employed, and if this is 
quite hot before the meat is put into it. When fried foods are 
greasy, the reason almost always is that the fat was not hot enough. 

Muttrm Chop. — When a small portion of animal food has to be 
provided, a mutton chop is always the first thing thought of, and, 
fortunately, it can be served in so many ways that, in itself, it 
furnishes alDundant scope for variety. A chop taken from the middle 
of the loin is the best. A. portion from the chump end is too large ; 
the best end consists largely of bones and fat, and is not sufficiently 
meaty. Having procured the chop, be careful to trim it neatly 
before cooking it. It may be prepared according to one of the 
following recipes : — 

Mutton Gliop Broiled. — Have a clear, hot fire, without smoke. 
The best fire for broiling is made from cinders. If, about twenty 



444 A YEAR'S COOKERY. 

minutes before the chop is to be broiled, a layer of cinders be put 
upon the fire, these will probably have burnt through by the time 
the chop is to be cooked. If a fire is not clear at the last moment, 
throw a little salt or sugar upon it, this will make it so. Grease 
the bars of the gridiron, lay the chop upon it, and set it over the 
fire. Let the outside brown, then turn it and brown the other 
sides, and turn every minute till the chop is done. On no account 
stick a fork into the meat, as this would let out the gravy. Have 
ready a very hot plate ; put the chop upon it, and serve instantly. 
A chop from the middle of the loin, Avhich weighs about six ounces 
when trimmed, will probably be done in eight minutes. When 
calculating the time, however, allowance will have to be made for 
the taste of the invalid. Some people like meat rare, some like 
it well done. Sauce or butter should be sent up separatelj^ ; it is 
not wise to put any garnish upon a broiled chop. If approved, 
before being broiled, the chop may be dusted with pepper, but it must 
not be salted. 

Chop Stewed.- — Trim the fat entirely from a thick mutton chop, 
dip it in cold water, pepper it lightly, and dredge it with flour. 
Put it into a small earthenware jar with a closely-fitting lid, put 
three or four spoonfuls of water with it, cover it, and set it in a 
saucepan of water to stew gently for an hour and a half. Turn 
over when half-cooked. Carefully skim the gravy, and serve very 
hot. If necessary, another spoonful of gravy may be added; and 
for this purpose stock will be much better than water. 

Chop ivith Oysters. — Beard half a dozen oysters, and stew the 
beards and trimmings in the oyster broth, to which has been added 
a small cupful of water, until the liquor is reduced to half. 
Strain and let it go cold. Trim a chop, and let it be entirely 
free from fat. Put it in a delicately clean saucepan ; pour the 
oyster broth over it, and simmer very gently for ten minutes. 
Mix a teaspoonful of flour to a smooth paste with cold water, and 
add gradually a cupful of milk. Season delicately with a little salt, 
pepper, and a suspicion of nutmeg ; put the milk with the chop, and 
add the bearded oysters. Let all stew together very gently two or 
three minutes longer, and serve. 

Welsh Chop. — Put the white part of three good-sized leeks in 
water, and boil. Throw away the water ; cover with fresh salted 
water, and boil till tender. The result of changing the water will 
be that the leeks will be rendered mellow. When thoroughly soft 
chop them finely or rub them through a sieve ; put them into a clean 
stewpan, with pepper and salt, and a gill of cream, and stir the puree 
over the fire till thick and smooth. A little butter may be added if 
approved. Have ready a daintily stewed choj). Spread the pre- 
jDared leeks on toast, put the chop on the top, and serve. 

If liked, onion-pulp may be used instead of leek -pulp. 

Pleasant accompaniments to a chop are a few green peas, a little 
potato mashed with cream, a few sprigs of cauliflower, or a single 



FOOD FOR INVALIDS. 445 

tomato baked. To cook the latter, cut a slice from the top and take 
out the i)ulp without breaking the skin. Mix with the pulp a few 
breadcrumbs, a little butter, pepper, salt, and a tiny pinch of sugar ; 
return to the tomato case and bake. Or the tomato may be plainly 
baked. 

Fried potatoes are, of course, most excellent accompaniments to a 
chop ; but potatoes are not always allowed by the doctor. 

Minced Mutton. — When mutton is to be minced for the use of an 
invalid, it is a good plan to tie three chops together, and cook the 
three ; then use that which was in the centre, and which will be 
moist and full of gravy, for mincing. The two chops on the 
outside will be excellent also, and will be enjoyed by healthy folk ; 
but they will not be as succulent and nourishing as the other will be. 

Fillets of Beef. — When beef is preferred to mutton, the tenderest 
part which can be chosen is the under-cut of the rump, known as 
fillet steak. A slice, half an inch thick, should be neatly trimmed 
from skin and fat, and, if broiled or very gently stewed, will be sure 
to be satisfactory. 

Foultry and Game are always regarded as suitable to the needs 
of the sick. When provided, they may be plainly cooked in the usual 
way. It is to be noted, however, that it is always possible to divide 
a bird and cook the portions differently, thus making two dishes 
instead of one. This plan is to be preferred to that of cooking the 
bird whole and serving it the second time cold or " warming it up." 
Cold meat, or meat made hot a second time, should never be given 
to invalids. 

To Cook a Foivl for an Invalid. — Divide the bird into two 
halves by cutting it down the middle with a sharp knife. The 
jjortions may be prepared in any of the following ways : — 

Broiled Chicken, if successfully managed, will be found ex- 
cellent, but it rec^uires care. Unless the bird is quite young, it 
should be partially cooked in the oven before being placed on the 
gridiron, otherwise it will be underdone in parts. Pick and singe 
the chicken, and divide it evenly quite through ; then cleanse it 
thoroughly, remove the trail, cut off the head and neck, and the first 
joints of the feet, and if it is necessary to wash the bird, be sure to 
dry it perfectly afterwards with a clean napkin. This being done, 
put the half chicken in good position and make it as flat as possible, 
so that the heat of the fire may reach every part equally. Nothing 
looks worse than to see a broiled chicken sprawling in the dish, 
therefore aim at placing it neatly. A little while before it is to be 
cooked, oil it all over, or brush it over with warm butter, then put 
it on the gridiron over a clear fire, bones downwards, and keep it 
well basted. Turn it three or four times during the process of 
cooking, and begin to turn when the gravy begins to ooze out. 
Sprinkle with pepper and salt, and serve. It will take about twenty- 
five minutes. The bird will be much more easily cooked in a hanging 
grill placed in front of the tire than it will on a gridiron over the fire. 



44(5 A YEAR'S COOKERY. 

When chicken cannot be conveniently broiled over or before the 
fire, it may be baked in the oven in imitation of broiling ; and there 
are nurses who think that a chicken thus cooked is more wholesome 
than chicken broiled in the ordinary way. Divide the chicken, 
or, if liked, simply take a wing and part of the breast from a young 
chicken. Should there be any doubt as to the tenderness of the 
bird, lay the piece on a gridiron or toaster, set over a pan of boiling 
water, cover it, and let it steam for half an hour before broiling. 
This done, lay it in a clean, warm dripping-tin, put it in a moderately 
hot oven, and turn it two or three times, and baste it all over by 
rubbing it with butter tied in muslin each time it is turned. 

A piquant sauce for serviiig with broiled or roast chicken may 
be made by mixing together two teaspoonfuls of melted butter with 
one tablespoonful of vinegar, one saltspoonful of mustard, the same 
of white sugar, and a little pepper and salt. Heat to the point of 
boiling, pour over the chicken, and cover closely five minutes before 
serving. 

Boiled Chicken. — Some people think that it would be impossible to 
boil less than a whole chicken to produce a satisfactory result. A 
half, or even a quarter of a fowl can, however, be prepared thus, and 
so both monotony and waste can be avoided. If possible, get a little 
second stock or veal broth to cover the chicken. If this is not at 
hand, an onion, a carrot, a bunch of herbs, and a few strips of bacon 
rind put into the water will help to give flavour. Bring the stock to 
the boil, put in the meat, boil for a minute, then draw the pan back 
and simmer gently until the chicken is tender. When it is dished, 
pour over it a little green parsley sauce, golden rain, or any sort of 
white sauce, and garnish with bacon rolls. {See p. 262.) If liked, 
the chicken can be taken up, and a sauce may be made by adding 
to one cupful of the stock in wliich it was boiled four tablespoonfuls 
of milk and a beaten egg. Stir the sauce over the fire for a minute 
or two, but do not let it boil, and serve while hot. 

Fillets of Chicken. — Cut as many neat slices of meat from the 
breast of a fowl as it is thought that the invalid can eat. Trim them 
neatly and press them with the flat side of a knife that has been 
dipped in cool water, and put them in a shallow tin. Season them 
with salt and a squeeze of lemon-juice, and lay a sheet of greased 
kitchen paper over them. Bake in a moderate oven for a few 
Ininutes till the meat is sufficiently cooked. If the fillets are cut 
carefully, the fowl from which they are taken can be boiled or 
roasted another time. 

Minced Chicken on Toast. — Stew part of a chicken till tender. 
Take the meat from the bones, and cut it with a sharp knife into 
small, neat pieces. Strain half a cupful of the stock in which 
the chicken was stewed, thicken it with a little flour, and add an 
equal measure of milk. Season pleasantly, and stir the sauce over the 
fire until it boils ; then put in the mince, let it remain by the side of 
the fire till hot through, and pour over a slice of lightly buttered toast. 



FOOD FOB INVALIDS. 447 

Stewed Chicken. — Take a half or a quarter of chicken that has 
been neatly trimmed. Melt a good tablespoonful of bacon fat in 
a stew[)an which has a closely-fitting lid ; put in the portion of 
meat and turn it over and about till it is well browned all over. 
Add half a gill of good stock, cover the saucepan closely, draw it 
back, and cook as gently as possible for an hour. Take up the 
meat, clear the fat from the gravy (it ^vill rise more readily if set 
in a basin of cold water), make it hot once more, and serve poured 
over the bird. 

Steivecl rigeon ivith Green Peas.— A daintily cooked pigeon is a 
very suitable dish for an invalid. It is most important, however, 
that the bird should be young and freshly killed. House pigeons 
are generally understood to be the best, and they very quickly lose 
their flavour. Clean the bird carefully, and put inside it a force- 
meat ball made of breadcrumbs, butter, chopped parsley, pepper 
and salt. Take a stewpan which has a closely-fitting lid ; melt in 
this a piece of butter the size of a large egg, and put in a slice of 
uncooked bacon cut into dice, and the bird, breast downwards, 
and let it roast gently, turning it from time to time, xit the end of 
about three quarters of an hour, or when the pigeon is browned 
equally all over, and is almost cooked, drain away the fat; put in its 
place a quarter of a pint of stock, and when this boils, put in half a 
pint of freshly-shelled green peas. Stew very gently until the peas 
are tender, and serve. If it is desired to make the pigeon more 
tasty, a bouquet and a few carrots turned the shape of small balls 
may be stewed with the bird. 

If there is a fear that pigeon cooked according to the above method 
would be too rich for the invalid, the bird may be cut into quarters 
and stewed until tender in stock, without being browned in butter. 
The broth may then be thickened with flour, enriched by the 
addition of an egg and a little milk, and poured over the pigeon. 
Peas can be served as an accompaniment. Of course, the condition 
of the invalid and the orders of the doctor must always be con- 
sidered when making choice of a dish. 

An excellent dish for one person may also be made of the fillets 
of a pigeon. The fillets, it will be understood, consist of the meat 
from each side of the breast cut out with a sharp knife from the 
breastbone to the wing. A pigeon, when cooked whole, does not 
furnish very much meat, and this is an easy way of getting the best 
of what there is. After the fillets are removed, the carcase of the 
pigeon can be stewed for sauce. The fillets should be flattened with 
a cutlet bat, egged, and breaded twice, then fried in hot fat. 

Broiled Pigeons make a very excellent dish. Clean a plump 
young pigeon and split it in two. Make the pieces flat, oil them all 
over, then lay on a greased gridiron over a low fire, the bones down- 
wards. Baste well, and turn when the gravy begins to ooze out. 
Put each half on a slice of buttered toast. 

Sweetbreads, being very delicate and easy of digestion, are generally 



us A YEAR'S COOKERY. 

regarded as suitable for the use of invalids. Either a lamb's sweet- 
bread or a calf's sweetbread may be used for this purpose. However 
they are to be prepared, they should be used very fresh, and they 
should be laid for an hour in cold water as soon as they are pro- 
cured. At the end of this time, put them into a saucepan, 
cover them with cold water ; bring this to a boil, and simmer for 
five minutes. Drain, put into cold water again, and, when quite 
cold, peel away the skin and remove the gristle. 

A sweetbi-ead of a fair size will probably be large enough for 
more than one dish for an invalid. The whole of it should be 
parboiled in the first instance. Here are two or three ways of 
treatment after being divided :— 

The Easiest Way of CooJdng a Sweetbread. — After parboiling and 
skinning the sweetbread, cut it into small pieces. Make some good, 
well-flavoured white sauce as thick as cream ; put in the sweetbread 
and stew gently for twenty minutes, and shake the pan occasionally. 
Add a little lemon-juice at the last moment, and serve on squares of 
toast. 

Sweethread Cutlets. — Parboil the sweetbread, lay in cold water, 
and peel it. Dry well, then cut into neat slices. Dust the slices 
with flour, brush with Qgg, and roll in breadcrumbs, and fry until 
well browned. Serve in a circle round a mound of green peas or 
French beans, and serve white sauce or tomato sauce as an accom- 
paniment. 

As sweetbread is rather insipid in itself, it is always advisable to 
try to impart flavour to it by cooking it in stock flavoured with 
onion, herbs, mushrooms, lemon-rind, or some other strongly- tasting 
ingredient. Bacon rolls are excellent served with it. 

A pleasant change may be obtained by stewing sliced sweetbread 
in oyster broth, and adding cream and thickening thereto as for 
oyster sauce. 

Vegetables and Fruits. 

Vegetables are generally a very necessary addition to the diet 
of an invalid. Green peas, beans, celery, cauliflower, seakale, 
asparagus, onions, and spinach are all allowable when they are to 
be had, and tomatoes, raw or cooked, are a never-failing resource. 
Potatoes are not always advisable. The doctor should be consulted 
before they are provided. If approved, however, they are generally 
acceptable, especially when daintily fried. Recipes for cooking all 
these vegetables in various ways may be found by referring to the 
index. 

Vegetable Puree. — When vegetables are required for health, and 
there is a difficulty about digesting them, they are sometimes pre- 
pared as a puree with milk, and in this form are both nourishing 
and easy of "^digestion. To make vegetable puree, boil the veget- 
able in the usual way, and drain it well to get the water from it. 
Cover it with milk, and let it simmer for a quarter of an hour, then 



FOOD FOR INVALIDS. 449 

rub as much as possible through a fine hair sieve, season with salt 
and pepper, and serve. Lettuces, green peas, French beans, cauli- 
flower, cabbage, carrots, turnips, onions, and asparagus may all be 
prepared thus ; and, if milk is not agreeable to the patient, whey or 
thin gruel may be substituted for it. 

Fruits. — Fresh fruit, especially grapes and oranges, are often a 
most cooling and beneficial addition to the invalid's diet. When 
there is a fear that raw fruit will not agree, almost all fruits can be 
made into purees, following the recipe given for puree of vegetables. 
For the most part, however, the fruits should be boiled in water, then 
rubbed through a sieve, and milk should be added to make the 
puree thin enough for drinking. When fruit is rubbed through a 
very fine sieve, the skin, seeds, cores, and hard portions, which are 
likely to be specially difficult of digestion, are kept back. When the 
puree is daintily sweetened it constitutes a most acceptable and 
delicious food. 

Eggs. 

Eggs are amongst the most valuable of our resources for the use 
of invalids. They are most wholesome and altogether nourishing, 
and they can be served in all sorts of ways. Of course, it is im- 
portant that they should be freshly laid. 

There are one or two ways of testing the condition of eggs in this 
respect. 

When absolutely fresh, the larger end feels warmer than the other 
when put to the lips. 

Put the Qgg in the hollow of the hand, and bend the fingers 
round it to make a sort of frame, then hold up the hand to the light, 
shut one eye, and look at the sun through the Qgg with the other. 
If clear and transparent throughout it is probably good. Fresh eggs 
are more transparent in the centre, old eggs at the ends. 

Fill a quart basin with water and dissolve therein a large table- 
spoonful of salt. Put in the egg. If it sinks it will probably be 
good ; if it floats it will be bad ; if it swims it will be stale. 

It is generally taken for granted that an egg which is to be 
served to an invalid should be lightly cooked, as being more easily 
digested. Recipes for difl'erent modes of preparing eggs will be 
found by referring to the index. Soft-boiled eggs, buttered 
eggs, devilled eggs, eggs in brown butter, in sunshine, and on the 
dish, poached eggs, savoury eggs, and eggs with asparagus, and 
baked omelette, are all suitable for invalid use. In addition, the 
following recipes may be acceptable : — 

Eggs and Apples. — Bake two apples, and, when soft, remove the 
skin and core and beat to pulp. Sweeten with sugar, and, if liked, 
flavour with lemon-rind or nutmeg. Add a teaspoonful of butter 
and a well-beaten egg. Put the preparation in a buttered cup, bake 
in a gentle oven till set, and serve warm. 

Egg Beaten Up with Wine or Milk. — Break an egg and take out 



450 A YEAR'S COOKERY. 

the speck. Beat the white till stiff, add the yolk, and beat again. 
Sweeten with a dessertspoonful of white sugar, and either a teaspoon- 
ful of brandy, a tablespoonful of sherry, or three tablespoonfuls of 
milk. An egg prepared thus and served with a biscuit is an ex- 
cellent restorative in debility. 

White of Egg and Milk.—{Oi use in cases of diarrhoea, when 
solid food is forbidden). Beat the white of an egg and mix with it a 
tumblerful of milk, a teaspoonful of brandy, and half a tumblerful 
of soda-water. To be repeated every two hours. 

Egg i/e??io??rtr7e.— Shake together in a bottle the white of an egg, 
a tumblerful of cold water, the juice of half a small lemon, and a 
teaspoonful of white sugar. Or, 

Beat a whole egg lightly, and add a tumblerful of strong, sweet 
lemonade. 

Egg /S'ow;^— Beat an egg and stir it into a breakfastcupful of hot 
broth of any kind. Season with salt and pepper, and serve with dry 
toast, made without crust, and cut into fingers. 

Egg Gruel. — Beat an egg, add pepper and salt, and pour on, 
stirring briskly the while, a teacupful of boiling water. 

Egg Punch. — Beat the yolk of an egg with a teaspoonful of sugar, 
and add a tablespoonful of brandy. Fill the glass with half a pint of 
fresh milk, and, last of all, add the white of egg beaten stiff. 

Egg and Coffee.— \i>iiY the beaten yolk of an egg into a cupful 
of good coffee, and dilute with boiling milk. The addition of an 
egg makes coffee much more nourishing. 

Egg Cordial. — (Very sustaining, and easily retained by a weak 
stomach). Take the white of an egg, beat it to a froth, and add a 
tablespoonful of cream and a tablespoonful of brandy. Mix 
thoroughly. 

Egg Drink. — Mix a tablespoonful of the best arrowroot with a 
little cold water to a smooth paste. Add two tablespoonfuls of 
white sugar, the juice of a large lemon, and the whites of two eggs 
which have been Avhisked with a little water. Add boiling water 
to make up the quantity to three pints, boil up once quickly, and 
stir till boiling. 

The above recipe is by Dr. Bullen, former House Physician to 
St. Bartholomew's Hospital. Speaking of it. Dr. Bullen says, "This- 
drink is somewhat thick, and is often much liked by persons who 
complain of soreness and dryness of the throat." 

Puddings, Custards, Jellies, and Cereal Preparations. 

Spoon Pudding. — Mix a teaspoonful of flour smoothly with a. 
little cold water ; add a beaten egg, a pinch of salt, and a teacupful 
of milk. Stir well, turn into a teacup which has been greased well 
inside, lay a round of greased paper on the top, and steam gently 
half an hour. Turn out, and serve with a tablespoonful of sherry. 

Sponge Cake Pudding. — Take a penny sponge cake, or a slice of 
stale sponge cake that will be equivtJient tliercto, and crumble over 



FOOD FOB INVALIDS. 451 

a wire sieve. Pour on a quarter of a pint of boiling milk, and 
beat with a fork. Sweeten, and, when cool, add a whole ^^g 
which has been whisked to a froth. Butter a cup, pour in the 
batter, lay a greased paper on the top, and steam till the pudding is 
firm in the centre. Turn out, sift white sugar over, and serve with a 
little wine. 

Tapioca, Rice, Sago, Semolina, Ground Rice, Vermicelli, Macaroni, 
may all be made into excellent light puddings for the use of an 
invalid. Such puddings are very wholesome when eaten with fruit. 

Cnstard Pudding. — Boil half a pint of milk with a bruised laurel 
leaf, and pour it, when boiling, upon a well-beaten egg. Sweeten 
with two good- sized lumps of sugar, pour the custard into a basin, 
put a round of greased paper on the top, and set in a saucepan of 
boiling water, to steam gently until firm in the centre. Serve with 
stewed fruit. 

Ccd-e Pudding. — An invalid tired of milk puddings might like 
cake pudding for a change. Chop a little suet till it is as fine as 
sand, and be most careful that no skin or fibre is left therein. Mix 
thoroughly three dessertspoonfuls of the suet with three of flour, 
three of fine breadcrumbs, three of sugar. Beat an egg, and mix it 
with three dessertspoonfuls of milk, and stir into the pudding. 
Turn into a small greased basin, put a round of paper on the top, 
set in a saucepan containing boiling water to come half-way up 
the basin, and steam for an hour. 

Cake Custaoxl. — Pour a glass of sherry over a penny sponge 
cake, or a slice of any light, dry cake, and let it soak, basting it 
occasionally until it will absorb no more. Make a custard with one 
egg and half a pint of milk. Sweeten and flavour, pour over the 
cake, and serve. 

Rice Cream. — Soak half an ounce of gelatine in water. Throw 
an ounce of Carolina rice _ into boiling water and boil for five 
minutes. Drain, and boil in a pint of milk till tender. Rub it 
through a sieve, and stir the pulp thus obtained into the milk that 
remained in the saucepan with it. Dissolve the gelatine, mix it 
with the milk, and sweeten and flavour to taste. Stir the cream 
occasionally till cold, and, before turning it into a damp mould, put 
with it a quarter of a pint of cream that has been whisked till 
firm. Rice thus prepared, and flavoured with a laurel leaf and a 
tablespoonful of brandy, is excellent. 

_ Or, soak a quarter of an ounce of gelatine. Boil half a pint of 
milk, pour it upon a well-beaten egg, and add sugar and flavouring. 
Stir into it an ounce of rice that has been boiled in milk till tender. 
A spoonful of cold rice pudding beaten with a spoonful of cream or 
milk might be used for this purpose. Dissolve the gelatine, 
stir it into the rice custard, being careful that the dissolved gelatine 
and the custard are about the same temperature, and turn into a 
damp mould. 

Semolina Cream. — Soak an ounce of Semolina in a gill of milk, 



452 A YEARS COOKERY. 

then boil it in half a pint of milk till tender. Dissolve half an ounce 
of gelatine, which has been soaked in water to cover it, in half 
a pint of milk, add sugar, flavouring, and, at the last moment, two 
tablespoonfuls of whipped cream. If cream is not to be had, the 
white of an egg whisked till firm may be substituted. When the 
cream is beginning to set, put it into a damp mould, and turn out for 
serving. 

Semolina, it should be remembered, is a very valuable product, 
very nourishing and sustaining, and rich in flesh-forming and bone- 
forming material. It is, therefore, particularly excellent for sick 
children. 

Jellies. 

Jellij. — A great many people have an idea that, although it may 
be allowable to make jellies and creams of prepared gelatine for 
householcl use, it is most necessary to stew down calves' feet when 
making jelly for an invalid. The truth is, however, that gelatine, 
whether it is obtained from calves' feet or from any other source, 
possesses very little nutritive value. It simply affords a medium 
for the presentation of food in an acceptable form ; and its use- 
fulness depends upon what is put with it rather than on the nature 
of the stiffening material. Yet food in the form of jelly is often 
liked by invalids who care for nothing else. Therefore, jelly can 
on no a"ccount be banished from the list of foods suitable for the sick 
and convalescent. 

CoJFee Jelly.— Book half an ounce of gelatine in half a pint of 
water, and, when dissolved, stir in a breakfastcup of strong, clear 
coffee. Sweeten to taste, and serve when firm. Jelly thus made 
would not be at all nourishing ; it would simply be reviving, and 
might serve to awaken the appetite. Yet it has sometimes proved 
to be very acceptable, especially when a tablespoonful of cognac is 
put with it. If made with milk instead of water, as it easily 
might be, it would be much more nourishing, and it could be still 
further enriched by the addition of a little cream, or whipped cream 
may be served with coffee jelly. 

Tea Jellij is also refreshing. It is made by substituting strong 
tea for coffee. 

Blancmange made from Cow-Reel.— Vrocme a dressed cow-heel 
from the tripe shop and cut it up into small pieces. Put it into a 
jar with a quart of milk, cover closely, and set it in a slow oven for 
three hours. Strain, sweeten, and flavour to taste, and, when cold, 
turn into a damp mould. 

Ta^noca Jelly.—Sook half a cupful of pearl tapioca in two cup- 
fuls of water overnight. Turn into a double saucepan, or put in a 
jar and set in a saucepan of water, and cook gently till clear. 
Add sugar to taste, and a little more water if too thick, and when 
taken oflf the fire, strain into it the juice of a lemon. Serve cold, 
with cream or milk. 



FOOD FOR INVALIDS. 453 

Red Tapioca. — Prepare the tapioca as in the last recipe, and, 
instead of lemon-juice, stir in a cupful of strawberry-juice, or red 
currant-juice, or raspberry and red currant-juice mixed. If liked, 
cooked apricots and their juice, grated pineapple and its juice, sliced 
bananas and orange-juice, or a few grapes can be introduced into 
the tapioca just before moulding. In fact, quite a series of accept- 
able dishes may be made from this recipe. The puddings should 
in every case be accompanied by cream or milk. 

Tapioca Custard.— Soak half a cupful of pearl tapioca overnight 
in slightly salted water that will barely cover it. Next day turn 
into a double saucepan with two cups of milk, and cook gently, 
stirring frequently. When the tapioca is clear and quite tender, 
pour the preparation upon the yolks of two eggs, which have been 
beaten with two tablespoon fuls of castor sugar. Mix well, then stir 
over the fire for a minute or two to cook the eggs. Turn into 
tumblers, and serve cold. 

Tcqnoca Cream. — Stew a brimming tablespoonful of small tapioca 
in half a pint of milk ; sweeten and flavour with cinnamon, and set 
away to cool. Just before serving add a gill of cream, which has 
been whipped till firm, and a tablespoonful of brandy, if approved. 
Serve with stewed fruit. 

Arrowroot Blancmange. — Blanch and bruise a quarter of an 
ounce of sweet almonds and five bitter ones, and boil them in half 
a pint of milk. Mix two heaped teaspoonfuls of Bermuda arrow- 
root very smoothly with a little cold milk, and strain the boiling 
milk over the paste, stirring to mix well. Add a teaspoonful of 
sugar, and return the preparation to the saucepan. Stir it over the 
fire for a minute or two, and serve cold. If liked, the almonds 
can be omitted, and when the arrowroot has cooled somewhat, a 
little lemon-juice can be stirred in. 

Jelly of Fresh Fruit. — Draw out and sweeten agreeably the juice 
of any kind of fruit. Add the juice of a lemon, and half an ounce 
of soaked and dissolved gelatine for each pint of juice. Mould 
when beginning to set. 

Sujierior Gruel. — Many invalids object very much to gruel. They 
acknowledge its value, but find it very distasteful. When made as 
follows, it is really very excellent : — Take half a teacupful of coarse 
Scotch oatmeal, mix it smoothly with about a pint and a half of 
water, pour it into a saucepan, and set it by the side of the fire 
to stew gently for a considerable time-^two or three hours. Stir 
it frequently. Rub the preparation through a sieve, and keep back 
portions that will not go through. Boil the gruel, put with it an 
equal measure of boiling milk, season to taste, and serve. 

For recipes for Spoon Diet, and Drinks for Invalids, refer to 
the index. 



INDEX 



Acid Sauce, Beef with, 412. 

Almond Syrup, 235. 

Anchovies, To fillet {see Royal 

Sandwiches), 11. 
Anchovies, To keep, 12. 
Anchovy Butter, 17. 

Sauce, 260. 

Angelica for Garnishing, 254. 
Annie's Cake, 336. 
Apple Balls, 104 

Compote, 326 

Custard, 386. 

Fritters, 365. 

Gateau, 335. 

• Jam, 407. 

Jelly, 407. 

Mould, 328. 

Sauce, 340._ 

Apples and Tapioca, 82. 

, Baked, 70. 

, Dried, 198. 

Stewed with Rice and 

Beetroot, 50. 
April, Dessert Fruits for, 170. 
Aromatic Herbaceous Seasoning, 

276. 
Arrowroot, 206. 
Artichokes, Globe, Boiled, 290. 

, Jerusalem, 407. 

Asparagus, 222. 

Served Alone, 166. 

with Eggs, 175. 

Aspic Jelly, 392. 

August, Dessert Fruits for, 213. 



Australian Meat, Cold, 63. 
, Savoury Hash of, 64. 



B 



Bacon and Kidneys, Fried, 3. 

and Liver, 31. 

and Macaroni, 49. 

and Tomatoes, 253. 

, To Free from Saltpetre, 

188. 

, Best way of Buying, 6. 

, Boiled, 132. 

, Fat, to Dse {see Eggs in 

Brown Butter), 13. 

made Hot, 92. 

Rind to be saved, 2. 

, Rolled, 262. 

, Toasted, 35. 

, To. Choose, 6. 

Bake, To, 106. 

Baked Apples, 70. 

Cod {see Baked Hake), 

315 

' with Forcemeat, 61. 

Custard Tarts, 35. 

Gurnet, 81. 

Hake, 315. 

Mackerel, 151. 

Omelette, 283. 

Potatoes, 175. 

Rabbit, 250. 

Red Mullet, 302. 

Rice and Tapioca, 98. 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



455 



Baked Sausages, 422. 


Beetroot with Rice and Stewed 


Soles (" Slips "), 15. 


Apples, 50. 


Tomatoes, 248. 


Biscuits and Milk, 222. 


Whiting, 298. 


Bisque Soup, 329. 


Barley, Cream, 96. 


Black, Red, or White Currant 


Water, 171. 


Jelly, 241. 
Blanche Sauce, 165. 


Water, Thick, 171. 


Batter, Frying, 272. 


Blancmange, 421. 


Pudding, Baked, 64. 


-, Corn-flour, 223. 


Baked in Tins, 243. 


Custard, 281. 


, Boiled, 191. 


Bloaters, Broiled, 6. 


Beans, Broad, 258. 


to be kept separate, 5. 


, French, 295. 


on Toast, 125. 


, Kidney, 295. 


Boiled Brm, 19. 


, Haricot, 229. 


Eggs, 10. 


, To Saute, 295. 


Fowls, 320. 


Bearnaise Sauce, 124. 


Lentils, 98. 


Beef, a la Mode, 77. 


Meat, 87. 


, Fillet of the Kump of, 3. 


Onions, 372. 


, Fillet of Roasted, 73. 


Ox Tongue, 270. 


Hash, Economical, 387. 


Rabbits, 103. 


, Potted, 42. 


Rice, with Raisins, 61. 


, Pressed {see Beef, To Boil), 


Salmon, 246. 


87. 


Tripe, 412. 


, Olives, 319. 


Turbot, 213. 


, Ribs of, Boned and Rolled, 


Turkey, 432. 


120. 


Turnips, 342. 


, Ribs of, Italian fashion, 


Bone Stock, 75. 


60. 


Braised Veal, 244. 


, Rolled, 121. 


Brawn, 98. 


, Savoury Stewed, 196. 


of Ox Cheek, 140. 


Stew, Economical, 122. 


Sauce, 29. 


Stewed with Onions, 379. 


, To prepare Pig's Head and 


Stewed with Vegetables a 


Feet for, 18. 


la .Jardiniere, 117. 


Bread Crumbs, To Store for 


Tea, 95. 


Use, 4. 


quickly made, 96. 


for Game, 349. 


, Thin Flank of, 38. 


Raspings, 4, 58. 


, To Choose, 20. 


made without Yeast, 391. 


, Tomato, 355. 


, Pulled, 307. 


with Acid Sauce, 412. 


Sauce, 361. 


Beef Steak- and Mushroom or 


, Stale, can be used for : — 


Oyster Pie, 128. 


Apple Gateau, 335. 


Pudding, 234. 


Brown Bread Pudding, 263. 


Warmed, 235. 


Cake Pudding, 63. 


Beetroot, Remains of, To use. 


CroMe au Pot, 198. 


103. 


Cre9y Soup, 11. 



456 



INDEX. 



Bread, Stale, can be used for 
{continued) : — 

Custard Sippets, 218. 

Fig Pudding, 209. 

Guest's Pudding, 149. 

Hydropathic Pudding, 225. 

Jam and Bread Pudding, 87. 

Lentil Soup, 134. 

Macaroni Cheese, 120. 

Newcastle Pudding, 220. 

Newmarket Pudding, 208. 

Onion Soup, 39. 

Preserved Tomatoes, IIG. 

Sausages on Toast, 16. 

Savoury Meat Cake, 47. 

Pudding, 340. 

Scalloped Cod, 47. 

Scallops, 105. 

Viennoise Pudding, 247. 
Bread, Vienna, 306. 
Breakfast Dishes : — 

Anchovies and Hard-boiled 
Eggs, 34. 

Anchovy Toast, 17. 

Asparagus with Eggs, 175. 

Baked Soles (Slips), 15. 

Biscuits and Milk, 222. 

Bloaters on Toast, 125. 

, Broiled, 6. 

Boiled Eggs,' 10. 

Broiled Sheep's Kidneys, 51. 

Buttered Eggs, 30. 

Calf s-head Mould, 157. 

Cocoa, 33. 

Cod's Roe, 39. 

Cod, Scalloped, 16, 47. 

Collared Tongue (see Market- 
ing), 3. 

Corned Beef {see Marketing), 
83. 

Corn-flour Milk, 228. 

Cornish Pasties, 301. 

Devilled Drumsticks, 27. 

Eggs, 93. 

Salmon, 37. 

Lamb, 176. 

Dried Haddock, 48. 



Breakfast Dishes {continued) : — 
Dried Sprats, 94. 
Eggs in Brown Butter, 13. 

on the Dish, 416. 

Fried Bacon {see Kidneys and 

Bacon), 3. 
Fried Kidneys and Bacon, 3. 

Potatoes, 59. 

Haddock Pie, 318. 
Ham-cured Herrings, 28. 
Ham Toast, 130. 
Hot Rolls, 318. 
Kippered Salmon, 19. 
Lambs' Sweetbreads, 365. 
Marrow Toast, 38. 
Milk Porridge, 221 

Toast, 226. 

Mock Woodcock, 127. 

Muffins, 53. 

Mushrooms and Bacon, 322. 

Mutton Pies, 6. 

Oatmeal Porridge, 45. 

Ox-Eyes, 211. 

Pickled Herrings, 299. 

Mackerel, 309. 

Pig's Cheek, 57. • 

Feet, 68. 

Pilchards, 41. 
Pork Pie, 13. 
Plum Porridge, 313. 
Potted Beef, 42. 

Grouse, 15. 

Hare, 20. 

Shrimps, 389. 

Rice and Barley Porridge, 224. 
Rice Milk, 226, 227. 
Rissoles, 13. 
Rizzared Haddock, 323. 
Rolled Veal, 188, 189. 
Royal Sandwiches, 11. 
Sally Lunns, 210, 306. 
Sausage Rolls, 382. 
Savoury Eggs, 1. 
Omelette, 317. 
Scallops, 105. 
Scalloped Eggs, 50. 
Scones, 196. 



A YEARS 


COOKERY. 457 


Breakfast Dishes {contimied) : — 


C 


Sprats, Broiled, 386. 




, Fried, 386. 


Cabbage, Red, Stewed, 367. 


Stewed Mushrooms on Toast, 


Cabbage-water, To get rid of, 


120. 


211. 


Tinned Prawns, 67. 


Cabbages, To boil, 210. 


Toasted Bacon, 35. 


(cabinet Pudding, 254. 


Tomatoes on Toast, 116. 


Cake, Annie's, 336. 


Watercress and Young Rad- 


, Cheap and Good, 236. 


ishes, 110. 


Pudding, 63. 


Breast of Lamb Stewed with 


, Savoury Meat, 47. 


Mushrooms, 243. 


, Rice, 279. 


Breast of Veal, Rolled, 226. 


, Sultana, 279. 


Brill, Boiled, 19. 


, Gateau Turc, 398. 


, To choose, 18. 


Cakes, Fish, 24. 


Broccoli, To boil, 164. 
Broiled Bloaters, 6. 


, , Oven for, 236. 


Calfs-foot Jelly, 393. 


Pork Chops, 395. 

Sheep's Kidneys, 51. 


Stock, 393. 


Calf's-head, 155. 


Sprats, 386. 


, Hashed, 157. 


Steak, 40. 


Mould, 157. 


Broken Bread, Remarks on, 4. 


Caper Sauce, 119. 


Brown Betty, 404. 


Capers, To preserve, 120. 


Butter, Eggs in, 13. 


Capon, Stuffed and Roasted, 


Sauce, 74. 


300. 


Gravy for Roast Goose, 


Carrots, To boil, 247. 


340. 


Cauliflower au Gratin, 164. 


frnm niVilnt" ''fil 


, To boil, 164. 




Bread Pudding, 263. 


Celery Salad, 393. 


Soup {see Crotite au Pot), 


Sauce, 422. 


198. 


Soup, 410. 


Browned Potatoes, 362. 


, Stewed, 409. 


Browning, 5. 


Stalks to be saved, 2. 


Brussels Sprouts, 210. 


Cheap Dishes, not including 
Rechauffe's :— 


and Chestnuts, 384. 


Bubble and Squeak, 40. 


Australian Meat, 63. 


Buns, Hot Cross, 145. 


Baked Plum Pudding, 91. 


, Light, 294. 


Beef, a la Mode, 77. 


, Soda, Good, 293. 


Boiled Hominy, 72. 


Butter, Anchovy, 17. 


Lentils, 98. 


, Melted, 260. 


Bone Stock, 75. 


, Lobster, 214. 


Brawn, 98. 


, Oiled, 223. 


Cabbage Soup, 67. 


, To keep, in Hot Weather, 


Cake Pudding, 63. 


308. 


, Cheap and Good, 236. 


Buttered Eggs, 30. 


Cod-fish baked with Force- 


Shrimps, 266. 


meat, 61. 



458 



INDEX. 



Cheap Dishes, not including 

Rechauffes {continued) : — 
Cow-heel with Parsley Sauce, 

84. 
Dried Sprats, 94. 
Eggs Stewed with Cheese, 71. 
Fried Hake, 284. 

Homin}^, 74. 

Plaice, 158. 

Haricot Puree, 107. 

Hasty Pudding, 132. 

Jam and Bread Pudding, 87. 

Lentil Soup, 134. 

Liver and Bacon, 31. 

Glutton, Scrag of, with Bice, 

■85. 
■ Stewed with Vegetables, 

27, 71, 149. 
Norfolk Dumplings, 390. 
Pease Pudding, 413. 
Pig's Fry, or Poor Man's Goose, 

67. 
Plain Bice Pudding, 89. 

Boiled Pudding, 116. 

Sago Pudding, 107 

Preserved Tomatoes, 116. 
Bice Boiled with Baisins, 61. 
with Stewed Apples 

and Beetroot, 50. 

and Cheese, 82. 

Savoury Hash of Australian 

Meat, 64. 
Sheep's Head, Stewed, 54. 
Stewed Beef with Vegetables, 

117. 

Giblets, 66. 

Prunes, 93. 

Stirabout Cheese, 277. 
Tapioca and Bice, Baked, 

98. 
Tripe k la Coutance, 366. 

, Boiled, 412. 

Cheese and Bice, 82. 

, Macaroni, 120. 

, Stewed, 176. 

, Stirabout, 277. 

, To serve, 216. 



Cheese, Dry, To use (see Macaroni 

Cheese, 120 ; and Cauliflower 

au Gratin, 164). 
Cheesecakes, Lemon, 297. 
Cherry Gateau, 253. 
Chestnut Forcemeat, 432. 

Sauce, 432. 

Chestnuts and Brussels Sprouts, 

384. 
Chicken Boiled, 320. 

Broth, 96. 

, Curried, 283. 

, Fricassee, 271. 

Kromeskies, 272. 

— Pudding, 308. 

, Boasted, 239. 

Salad, 311. 

Saute au Champignons, 136. 

Stewed with Tomatoes and 

Mushrooms, 325. 
Chicory Browning, 5. 
China Chilo, 249. 
Chocolate Pudding, 267. 
Chops, Mutton, 189. 
Christmas Plum Pudding, 419. 
Civet of Leveret, 222. 

Babbit, 417. 

Clear Soup, 143, 274. 

from Fresh Meat, 274. 

Cocoa, 33. 

Cocoanut Pudding, 286. 

Cod, Baked (see Baked Hake), 

315. 

, , wdth Forcemeat, 61. 

, Fried, 2. 

Pie, 4. 

, Salt, Bechauffe, 147. 

, Scalloped, 16, 47. 

, To choose, 12. 

Cod's Head and Shoulders, 414. 

Boe for Breakfast, 39. 

Colcannon, 290. 

Cold Cod, To use (see Cod Pie), 

4. 
, Bechauffe of (see 

Kedgeree, 21 ; and Scalloped 

Cod, 16). 



A YEARS COOKERY. 



459 



Cold Meat, RechaufFes of {see 
Kissoles or Croquettes), 13. 

Mulligatawny Soup, 39. 

Mutton Pies, 6. 

Rabbit Gateau, 250. 

Toad-in-tlie-Hole, 29. 

Cold Potato {see Fish Cakes), 
24. 

Cod Pie, 4. 

Browned Potatoes, 362. 
Cold Potatoes browned, 433. 
Collared Tongue, To carve, 7. 
Collops, Scotch, 19. 
Compote of Apples, 326. 

of Fresh Fruit, 282. 

of Oranges, 415. 

Cook, Daily Duties of, 2. 
Collops, Mutton, with Tomatoes, 

343. 
Corn-flour Blancmange, 223. 

Milk, 228. 

Cornish Pasties, 301. 
Cottage Plum Pudding, 213. 
Cow-heel with Parsley Sauce, 

84. 
Cream, Italian, 310. 

, Orange, 415. 

, Stone, 242. 

, Strawberry, 310. 

, Whipped, 422. 

Cre9y Soup, 11. 
Crimped Skate, 20, 74. 
Croquettes {see Rissoles), 13. 

, Potato, 380. 

Croilte au Pot, 198. 
Crust, Flaky, 285. 
Cucumber, To serve, 192. 
Curing Hams, 376. 
Currant Dumplings, 387. 
Curried Chicken, 383. 

Fowl, 374. 

Mutton, 199. 

Rabbit, 258. 

Veal, 264. 

Carry, Rice Boiled for, 264. 
Custard, 289. 
, Apple, 286. 



Custard, Blancmange, 281. 

, Savoury, 275, 307. 

Sippets, 218. 

— - Tart, Baked, 35. 
Cutlets, Halibut, 232. 

, Pork, with Apple Sauce, 

53. 
, Salmon, 262. 



D 



Daily Duties of Mistress, 4. 

. of Cook, 2. 

Dessert Fruits for January, 56. 

for February, 95. 

„ March, 133. 

„ April, 170. 

„ May, 206. 

„ June, 240. 

„ July, 276. 

„ August, 313. 

„ September, 342. 

„ October, 376. 

„ November, 407. 

„ December, 436. 

Devilled Drumsticks, 27. 

Eggs, 93. 

Lamb, 176. 

Salmon, 37. 

- — Sauce, 27. 
Devonshire Junket, 330. 
Dishes for Invalids :— 

Broths, 95. 

Plain Drinks, 171. 

Meats, 408. 

Spoon Meat, 206. 
Dried Apples (Chips), 198. 

Cherries for garnishing, 254 

Haddock, 48. 

Sprats, 94. 

Ducklings, Roasted, 269. 
Dumplings, Currant, 387. 
, Fruit {see Red Currant 

Dumplings), 262. 



460 



IJSDEX. 



Dumplings, Lemon, 350. 

, Norfolk, 390. 

, Suet (Small), 359. 

Dutch Sauce, 186. 



E 



Eels, Stewed, 44. 
Egg Sauce, 146, 320. 
Eggs, Boiled, 10. 

, Buttered, 30. 

, Devilled, 93. 

, Fried, 102. 

in Brown Butter, 13. 

in Sunshine, 257. 

on the Dish, 416. 

, Poached, 65. 

■ , Savoury, 1. 

■ , Scalloped, 50. 

Stewed with Cheese, 51. 

with Asparagus, 175. 

Elegant Economist's Pudding, 
184. 



F 



Fat for general use, 83. 

Scraps, Use of, 2. 

Feathers, To dry, 95. 
February, Dessert Fruits for, 95. 
Fig Pudding, 209. 
Filets de Boeuf k la Bearnaise, 

140. 
Fillet of Beef, Roasted, 73. 
of Veal, Baked or Ptoasted, 

237. 

of the Rump of Beef, 3. 

Filleted Soles, k la Maitre 

d'Hotel, 131. 

Sautes, 9. 

Turbot, 230. 



Fish : — 

Anchovies, 34. 

Anchovy Toast, 17. 

Bloaters, Broiled, 6. 

on Toast, 125. 

Brill, Boiled, 19. 

Cod-fish baked with Force- 
meat, 61. 

, Baked {see Baked Hake), 

315. 

, Fried, 2. 

Pie, 4. 

, Scalloped, 16, 47. 

Cod's Head and Shoulders, 
414. 

Roe, 39. 

Devilled Salmon, 37. 

Fish, Fried, 32. 

Flat Fish, Filleted, 9. 

Gurnet, Baked, 81. 

Haddock, Dried, 48. 

Pie, 318. 

, Rizzared, 323. 

, Stufi"ed and Baked, 

318. 

Hake, Baked, 315. 

, Boiled, 373. 

, Fried, 284. 

Halibut Cutlets, 232. 

Herrings, Fresh, au Gratin, 
372. 

, , Pickled, 299. 

, Ham-cured, 28. 

with Mustard Sauce, 

327. 

Kedgeree, 21. 

Mackerel au Gratin, 173. 

, Baked, 151. 

, Pickled, 309. 

Oysters, Scalloped, 167. 

Pilchards, 41. 

Plaice, Fried, 158. 

Prawns, 65. 

Red Mullet, Baked, 302. 

Salmon, Boiled, 246. 

Cutlets, 262. 

, Kippered, 19. 



A YEAR'S 


COOKERY. 461 


Fish {continued) : — 


Forequarter of Lamb, 147. 


Salmon, Mayonnaise of, 197. 


Fowl or Chicken, Fricasseed, 


, Pickled, 204. 


271. 


Shad, 117. 


Fowl or Chicken, Roasted, 239. 


Salt Fish, 146. 


Fowls, Boiled, 320, 396, 422. 


Cod Rechauffe, 147. 


, Curried, 374. 


Scallops, 105. 


Fragments of Meat Stewed for 


Skate with Brown Butter, 


Stock, 2. 


74. 


to be Saved, 2. 


Smelts, 63. 


French Beans, 295. 


Soles, Baked, 15. 


Method of Cooking Pork, 


, Filleted a la Maitre 


384. 


d'Hotel, 131. 


Fresh Fruit, Compote of, 282. 


, Filleted, Rolled, and 


Fresh Herrings, 88. 


Baked, 97. 
, Filleted— Sautes, 9. 


i-» -n fl -iir* 4--I >T / rt^-jyn l\/l r\ i-» iT-z^nr^i 1 


au Gratin), 173. 


, Fried, 125. 


Fricassee of Fowl, 271. 


, h la Horly, 361. 


Fritters, Apple, 365. 

Fruit Dumplings, Suet Crust for, 


au Gratin, 174. 


Sprats, Dried, 94. 


234. 


, Broiled, 386. 


Juice with Sago Mould, 


, Fried, 386. 


351. 


Stewed Eels, 44. 


Pies, 285. 


Turbot, Boiled, 213. 


, Preserving, 240. 


, Filleted, 230. 


Frying Batter, 272. 


Whiting, Baked, 298. 




, Fried, 32. 




Fish Cakes, 24. 




, Cold {see Rechauffes). 




— for Invalids, 408. 


G 


, To choose, 1, 6. 




, To Egg - and - Bread- 


Game, Breadcrumbs for, 349. 


crumb, 9. 


, Gravy for, 349. 


, Salt, 146. 


Garlic, To store, 335. 


Soup, Simple, 255. 


Garnish, Orange, 415. 


■ Stock, 53. 


Guteau, Apple, 335. 


, Supply of, 6. 


of Cherries, and other 


, To fry, 32. 


Fruits, 253. 


, To saute, 9. 


of Rabbit, 250. 


Flaky Crust, 285. 


of Rice, 346. 


Flour, Vienna, 307. 


Turc with Coffee Icing, 


Food for Invalids (s^'f' Appendix). 


398. 


Fool, Gooseberry, 233. 


Gelatine Jelly, 391. 


, Raspberry, 263. 


General Favourite Pudding, 189. 


Forcemeat, Chestnut, 432. 


German Pickle for Pork, 1.52. 


for Hare, 370. 


German Sausage, To keep Moist, 


for Veal, 237. 


133. 



462 



INDEX. 



Fowls), 



340. 



German Sausage, To serve, 212. 
Method of Cooking Pork, 

155. 
Giblet Soup, 58. 
Giblets, Brown Gravy made 

from, 361. 

, Stewed. 66. 

Gingerbread Pudding, 193. 

Glaze, 122. 

Glazed Onions {see Beef k la 

Mode), 78. 
Globe Artichokes, 290. 
Golden Pudding, 175. 
Rain {see Boiled 

320. 
Gooseberry Fool, 233. 
Gooseberry Sauce, 215. 
Goose, Green, 215. 

, Hashed, 341. 

, Brown Gravy for, 

, Boasted, 339. 

, Apple Sauce for, 340. 

, Brown Gravy for, 340. 

, Sage and Union Stuffing 

for, 340. 
Gravy, 217. 
, Brown, for Roast Goose, 

340. 
, Brown, from Giblets, 

361. 

for Game, 349. 

for Boast Hare, 

for Veal, 238. 

Soup, 313, 334. 

Green Goose, 215. 

Peas, 253. 

Greens, To boil, 210. 
Ground Bice Mould, 

Pudding, 300. 

Grouse, Potted, 15. 

• , Boasted, 311. 

Salad, 311. 

Gruel (two ways), 20ft 
Guest's Pudding, 149. 
Guinea Fowl, 138. 

Soup, 79. 

Gurnet, Baked, 81. 



399. 



284. 



H 



Haddock, Dried, 48. 

Pie, 318. 

, Stuffed and baked, 318. 

, Bizzared, 323. 

Hake, Baked, 315. 

, Boiled, 373. 

, Fried, 284. 

Halibut Cutlets, 232. 

Ham and Macaroni, 136. 

Hambro' Salad, 287. 

Ham-cured Herrings, 28. 

Ham, Fried, 102. 

, Minced, 207. 

, To free from Saltpetre, 

188. 

, Potted, 151. 

Toast, 130. 

Hams, To cure, 376. 

, To boil, 201. 

Hare Forcemeat, 370. 

- — Gra\^, 400. 

, Jugged, 369. 

, Boast, 399. 

Soup, 35. 

, Suitable weather for hang- 
ing, 17. 

— — , To choose, 17. 

, To hang, 17. 

, To skin, 399. 

Haricot Beans, 229. 

Mutton, 148. 

, Norman, 303. 

Puree, 107. 

Salad, 131. 

Hashed Beef (Economical), 387. 

Calf's Head, 157. 

Goose, 341. 

Mutton, 190. 

Hasty Pudding, 132. 

Head and Shoulders of Cod, 
414. 

Herbs, To dry, 276. 

Herbaceous Seasoning, Aromatic, 
276. 

Herrings, Fresh, 88. 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



403 



Herrings, Fresh, au Gratin {see 
Mackerel au Gratin), 173. 

, , Pickled, 299. 

with Mustard Sauce, 327. 

Hominy Cake, 359. 

, To boil, 73. 

, To fry, 74. 

, To soak, 72. 

Horseradish Sauce, 411. 

Hotch Potch, Scotch, 251. 

Hot Cross Buns, 145. 

Hot Pot, Lancashire, 126. 

Hot Polls, 318. 

Hot Weather, To keep Butter in, 
308. 

, To preserve Meat in, 

270. 

Hydropathic Pudding, 225. 



Meats, Fish, &c. {continued) : — 

Mutton Chops, Stewed in 
their own Gravy, 203. 

Rump Steak, Stewed, 408, 
Spoon Meats : — ■ 

Arrowroot, 206. 

Cocoa, 33. 

Gruel {see Water Gruel, two 
ways), 206. 

Panada, 206. 

Thick Milk, 207. 

Pace Gruel, 206. 

Sago, 206. 

Savoury Custard, 207, 275. 

Tapioca, 206. 
Italian Cream, 310. 



Icing Sugar for Puddings, 287. 
Indian Pickle, 314. 
Invalid's Dishes : 
Broths : — 

Barley Cream, 96. 

Beef Tea, 95. 

ciuickly made, 

96. 

Chicken Broth, 96. 

Mutton Broth, 96. 

Veal Broth, 96. 
Drinks : — 

Barley Water, Clear, 171. 

, Thick, 171. 

Lemonade, 171. 

Linseed Tea, 171. 

Rice and Toast Water, 171. 
Food {see Appendix). 
Meats, Fish, &c. :— 

Fish, 408. 

Game, 408. 

]\rinced Meat, 408. 

Mutton Chops, Stewed, 408. 



Jam and Bread Pudding, 87. 
Jam, Apple, 407. 

Turnovers, 336. 

January, Dessert Fruits for, 

56. 
Jelly, Apple, 407. 

, Aspic, 392. 

, Black Currant, 241. 

, Calf's-foot, 393. ' 

, Fruit, 392. 

, Gelatine, 391. 

, Maraschino, 392. 

, Orange, 392. 

, Red Currant, 241. 

, Savoury, 492. 

, Wine, 391. 

, WTiite Currant, 241. 

Jerusalem Artichokes, 407. 
Jugged Hare, 369. 
Julienne, 143. 

Soup quickly made, 79. 

July, Dessert Fruits for, 276. 
June, Dessert Fruits for, 240. 
Junket, Devonshire, 330. 



4f;4 



INDEX. 



Kedgeree, 21. 
Ketchup, Mushroom, 342. 
— , Wahiut, 276. 
Kidney Beans, 295. 

, Ox, stewed, 135. 

Soup, 93. 

Kidneys and Bacon, Fried, 3. 

, Broiled, 51. 

, Sheep's, To choose, 1. 

- — , Stewed, 152. 

, Pork, Stewed, 152. 

Kippered Salmon, Broiled, 19. 

, Purchase of, 17 

Kromeskies, 272. 



Lamb, Breast of, stewed with 
Mushrooms, 243. 

, Devilled, 176. 

, Forequarter of, 147 

, Minced, 186. 

Lamb's Fry, 188. 

Sweetbreads, 365. 

Lancashire Hot Pot, 126. 

Leche Cr,eme, 179. 

Leg of Mutton, To choose, 17. 

Lemonade, 171. 

Lemon Cheesecakes, 297. 

Dumplings, 350. 

Pudding, 291. 

Sponge, 288. 

Syrup, 119. 

Lentils and Sausages, 1 38. 

, Boiled, 98. 

Lentil Soup, 134. 
Leveret, Civet of, 222. 

, Potted, 256. 

Soup, 223. 

Light Buns, 294. 
Linseed Tea, 171. 
Liver and Bacon, 31. 



Liver Sauce, 429. 
Lobster Butter, 214. 

Sauce, 214. 

Soup, 193. 

Loin of Mutton, To choose, 6. 
of Pork, 12. 



M 



Macaroni a la Milanaise, 265. 

and Bacon, 49. 

„ Ham, 136. 

„ Mushrooms, 304. 

„ Tongue, 223. 

Cheese, 120. 

, Italian, 248. 

Pudding, 129. 

Soup, 92. 

, Sweet, 292. 

, To buy, 1. 

Mackerel au Gratin, 173. 

, Baked, 151. 

, Pickled, 309. 

, Pickled, To keep good, 235. 

Maitre d' Hotel Butter, 151. 

Sauce, 177. 

Maraschino Jelly, 392. 
March, Dessert Fruits for, 133. 
.Marinade for Pork, 382. 
Marketing :— 

Apples, Dried (chips), 198. 

Bacon, 6. 

Baker's Rolls, 317. 

Beef, 20. 

, Aitchbone of, 190. 

, Fillet of the Rump of, 

3. 

, for Beef a la Mode, 77. 

, Muscle of the Leg of, 

48. 

, Thin flank of, 37. 

, Top-side of the Rouud 

of, 61. 

, Ribs of, 20. 



A YEARS COOKERY. 



4Gr 



Marketing {continued) : — 

Beef, Silver-side of, 24. 

, Sir] 

Brill, 18. 

Broccoli, 164. 

Calf's Head, 154. 

Canadian Ham, 329. 

Cauliflower, 164. 

Cod, 12. 

, Economical way of buy- 
ing, 359. 

Crabs, 297. 

Cucumber, To keep fresh, 
207. 

Ducks, 245. 

Eels, 43. 

Fish, 1, 6. 

Fowls, 67. 

German Sausage, 130. 

Giblets, 65. 

Goose, 338. 

Green Geese, 212. 

Grouse, 309. 

, Potted, 15. 

Guinea Fowls, 77. 

Gurnets, 80. 

Haddock, 317. 

Hake, 284. 

Halibut, 219. 

Cutlets, 231. 

Ham {see Bacon), 6. 

Hare, 17. 

Herrings, Fresh, 88, 304. 

Hominy, 71. 

Indian Meal, 52. 

Italian Beef, Meat for, 59. 

Julienne, 77. 

Kippered Salmon, 17. 

Lamb, 146. 

, Forequarter of, 146. 

Lamb's Fry, 187. 

Leverets, 221. 

Lobster Spawn, 212. 

Lunch Tongues, Small, 62. 

Mackerel, 137. 

Meat, when tender, 1. 

Mushrooms, Forced, 119. 

E E 



Marketing {contumed) : — 
Mutton Cutlets, 169. 

, Neck of, 31, 64. 

, Leg of, 17. 

, Loin of, 12. 

, Saddle of, 19. 

, Scrag of, whole, 70. 

Muffins, 51. 

Ox Flare, To render, for Fat 
{see Note 5, page 83). 

Tails, 179. 

Tongue, 255. 

Oysters, 48, 77. 
Parsley, 6. 
Partridges, 347. 
Pheasants, 23, 364. 
Pigeons, 143. 
Pig's Feet for Brawn, 15. 

for Breakfast, 67. 

Fry, 67. 

Head for Brawn, 15. 

Pilchards, 41. 
Plaice, 158. 
Pork, 12. 

, Loin of, 12. 

, Leg of, 61. 

Poultry, 239. 

Prairie Birds, 94. 

Prawns, Tinned, 65. 

Ptarmigan, 85. 

Babbits, 43. 

Red Mullet, 301. 

Rump Steak for Broiling, 39. 

for Roasting, 43. 

Salmon, 245. 
Salsify, 370. 
Sardines, 23. 
Scallops, 104. 
Shad, 116. 
Sheep's Head, 52. 

• Kidneys, 1. 

Skate, 20. 
Smelts, 62. 
Soles, 6. 
Sprats, 386. 
Suet, 1, 71. 
Tomatoes, 248. 



4C6 



INDEX. 



Marketing {continued) : — 

Tongues, Tinned, 3. 

Tripe, 41. 

Turbot, 212. 

Turkey, 426. 

Twist, To render, for Fat, 
84. 

Veal, 90. 

, Fillet of, 113. 

Whiting, 31. 

Wood Pigeons, 43. 
Marmalade Bread and Butter 

Pudding, 208. 
Marrow Toast, 38. 
Masked Parsnips, 342. 

Potatoes, 184. 

Turnips, 342. 

May, Dessert Fruits for, 206. 
Mayonnaise of Salmon, 197. 

Sauce, 312. 

Meat-cake, Savoury, 47. 
Meat, Cold {see Rechauffes). 
, Fragments of, stewed for 

Stock, 2. 

in Hot Weather, 270. 

Patties, 259. 

Puddings, Suet Crust for, 

234. 

, Tainted, 270. 

To bake, 106. 

, To boil, 87. 

, To make tender, 1. 

, To pickle, 26. 

■; To roast, 100. 

, when tender, 1. 

Meats, Potted, To serve {see Pot- 
ted Grouse), 15. 
Melted Butter, 260. 
Milk and Biscuits, 222. 

, Corn-flour, 228. 

Porridge, 221. 

Ptice, 226, 227. 

Rolls, 306. 

Soup, 7. 

, Thick, 207. 

Toast, 226. 

Minced Ham, 207. 



Minced Lamb, 186. 

Meat, 430. 

Meat for Invalids, 408. 

:Mutton, 37. 

Cakes, 194. 

Pork, 157. 

Veal, 183. 

Mince Pies, 430. 
Mint Sauce, 126. 
Mistress, The Daily Duties of 

the, 4. 
Mock Turtle Soup, 114. 

Woodcock, 127. 

Monday, Marketing on, 10. 
Mould, Apple, 328. 

of Calf's Head, 157. 

of Ground Rice, 284. 

of Rice, 350. 

of Sago wdth Fruit Juice, 

351. 

of Semolina, 266. 

Moulds for Jelly, To prepare, 

393. 
Mountain Pudding, 332. 
Muffins, 53. 

Mulligatawny Soup, 30. 
Muscle of Beef {see Stewed Beef 

with Vegetables), 117. 
Mushroom Ketchup, 342. 
Mushrooms and Bacon, 322. 

on Toast, 120. 

, Stewed, with Breast of 

Lamb, 243. 

and Macaroni, 304. 

and Tomatoes stewed with 

Chicken, 325. 
Mustard Sauce, 249. 
]Mutton a la Sauce Piquante, 

132. 

"Broth, 96. 

Cakes, Minced, 194. 

^— Chops, 189. 

stewed for Invalids, 

408. 
in their own gravy, 

203. 
, Cold {see Rechauftes). 



A YEAR'S 


COOKERY. 467 


Mutton Collops with Tomatoes, 

343. 
, Curried, 199. 





Oatmeal Porridge, 45. 


Cutlets v*^ith Piquante 


October, Dessert Fruits for, 


Sauce, 170. 


376. 


, Haricot, 148. 


Oiled Butter, 223. 


, Hashed, 190. 


Oldham Parkin, 381. 


Kidneys, stewed, 152. 


Old Potatoes, To boil, 141. 


, Leg of. To choose, 17. 


Olives, Beef, 319. 


, Loiu of, To choose, 6. 


Omelette, Baked, 283. 


, Loin of, boned and rolled, 


, Savoury, 317. 


159. 


Tin, To clean, 28. 


- — , Minced, 37. 


Onion Sauce, 356. 


, Neck of, To choose. 31. 


Soup, 39. 


Pies, 6. 


Onions, Boiled, 372. 


, Saddle of, To choose. 


, Pickled, 314. 


19. 


with Stewed Beef, 379. 


, Scrag of, stewed with Vege- 


Orange Cream, 415. 


tables, 27, 71, 149. 


Garnish, 415. 


, Scrag of, with Rice, 85. 


Jelly, 392. 


, Shank of, To stew, 18. 


Marmalade, 56, 57. 


- — , Shoulder of. Roast, 425. 


Oranges, Compote of, 415. 


, Sour, 131. 


Oven for Cakes, 236. 


stewed with Vegetables, 


Ox-Cheek Brawn, 140. 


27. 


Eyes, 211. 


Tart, 21. 


Kidney, Stewed, 135. 


, Top of the Loin of, stewed, 


Tail Soup, 86. 


172. 


, Stewed, 180. 




Tongue, Boiled, 270. 




Oyster Sauce with Fresh Oys- 




ters, 358. 




with Tinned Oysters, 


N 


358. 




Patties, 374. 


Neapolitan Sauce, 69. 

Neck of Veal rolled and roasted, 


Soup, 344. 


Shells, Use of, 3. 


201. 


Oysters, Scalloped, 157. 


Newcastle Pudding, 220. 




Newmarket Pudding, 208. 




New Potatoes, To boil, 147. 




, To saute, 185. 




Norfolk Dumplings, 390. 


P 


Normandy Pippins, 295. 




Norman Haricot, 303. 


Palestine Soup, 417. 


Nottingham Pudding, 379. 


Panada, 206. 


November, Dessert Fruits for. 


Pancakes, 89. 


407. 


Parkin, 381. 



468 



INDEX. 



Parkin, Oldham, 381. i 

Parsley Sauce, 177. \ 

, To keep, 6. 

, To fry, 25. ' 

, Use of, 6. 

Parsnips, Boiled, 342. 

, Mashed, 342. 

Soup, 411. 

Parson's Pudding, 280. 
Partridge, Roast, 348. 
Pasties, Cornish, 301. 
Pastry : — 

Flaky Crust, 285. 

Kinds of, 153. 

Puff Paste, 162. 

Pvough Puff Pastry, 203. 

Short Crust (two kinds), 228. 

Suet Crust, 234. 

To be made regularly, 5. 
Patties of Meat, 259. 

■ , Oyster, 374. 

Peaches, Preserved, 147. 
Peas, Green, 253. 
Pease Pudding, 413. 

Soup, 157. 

Pheasant, Roasted, 367. 

, Salmi of, 368. 

Soup, 28. 

Pheasant's Legs, Devilled, 27. 

, To choose, 23. 

, To hang, 23. 

Pickle for Sour Mutton, 120. 

for Fresh Pork, 360. 

for Pig's Cheek, 18. 

, German, for Pork, 152. 

, Indian, 314. 

or Brine for Meat, 26. 

Pickled Herrings, 299. 

Mackerel, 309. 

. , To keep Good, 235. 

Onions, 314. 

Pork, Boiled, 165. 

Red Cabbage, 314. 

Salmon, 204. 

Walnuts, 276. 

Pie, Beef Steak and Mushrooms 
or Oysters, 128. 



Pie, Cod, 4. 

, Pigeon, 187. 

, Rabbit, 324. 

, Sea, 113. 

, Shepherd's, 23. 

, Spicy, 178. 

, Veal and Ham, 169. 

Pies, Fruit, 285. 

, Mince, 430. 

, Mutton, 6. 

Pigeons, Stewed, 281. 
Pig's Brains, 16. 

Cheek, To boil, 57. 

Cheek, To prepare, 16. 

Feet for Breakfast, 68. 

Feet, To clean, 16, 18. 

Fry, or Poor Man's Goose, 

67. 

Head, To clean, 16, 18. 

Head and Feet, To prepare 

for Brawm, 18. 
Pine Apple, Tinned, 142. 
Pippins, Normandy, 295. 
Piquante Sauce, 170, 177. 

Stew of Veal, 345. 

Pistachios for Garnishing, 254. 
Plaice, Fried, 158. 
Plum Porridge, 313. 

Pudding for Christmas, 

418. 

, Baked, 91. 

Poached Eggs, 65. 
Pork a la Italienne, 426. 

cooked French method, 

384. 

Chops, Broiled or Fried, 

395. 
Cutlets with Apple Sauce, 

53. 

, Fresh, To pickle, 360. 

, German fashion, 155. 

Kidneys, Stewed, 152. 

, Leg of. To pickle, 61. 

, To roast, 353. 

, Loin of, 12. 

, Marinade for, 382. 

, Minced, 157. 



A YEAR'S 


COOKERY. 469 


Pork, Pickled, To boil, 165. 


Puddings (continued) : — 


Pie, To serve, 13. 


Batter, Baked in tins, 243. 


, To choose, 12. 


Boiled, 191. 


Porridge, MHk, 221. 
, Oatmeal, 45. 


Beef Steak, 234. 


Bread-and-Butter, Marmalade, 


, Plum, 313. 


208. 


, Rice and Barley, 224. 


Brown Betty, 404. 


Potato Chips, 160. 


Brown Bread, 263. 


Croquettes, 380. 


Cabinet, 254. 


Mould, 367. 


Cake, 63. 


Salad, 148. 


Chicken, 308. 


Snow, 141. 


Chocolate, 267. 


Soup or Puree, 47. 


Cocoanut, 286. 


Potatoes a la Maitre d'Hotel, 


Cottage Plum, 213. 


148. 


Elegant Economist's, 184. 


, Baked, 175. 


Fig, 209. 


, Browned, 362. 


General Favourite, 189. 


Cold, browned, 433. 


Gingerbread, 193. 


, Cold (see Cod Pie, 4 j Shep- 


Golden, 175. 


herd's Pie, 23) 


Ground Rice, 300. 


, Fried, 59. 


Hasty, 132. 


, Mashed, 184. 


Hayrick, 119. 


, New, To boil, 147. 


Hydropathic, 225. 


, New, To saute, 185. 


Jam and Bread, 87. 


, Old, To boil, 141. 


Lemon, 291. 


Soufflees, 160. 


Macaroni, 129. 


, Steamed, 178. 


Mountain, 332. 


Potted Beef, 42. 


Newcastle, 220. 


Grouse, 15. 


Newmarket, 208. 


Ham, 151. 


Parson's, 280. 


Leveret, 256. 


Pease, 413. 


Meats, To serve {see Potted 


Plain Rice, 89 


Grouse), 15. 


RoUed, 116. 


Shrimps, 389. 


Tapioca, 217. 


Tongue, 337. 


Plum, Baked, 91. 


Poultry for Invalids, 408. 


, for Christmas, 418. 


Powder, Baking, 279. 


Queen's, 287. 


Prawns, Tinned, 67. 


Raspberry Sandwich, 406. 


Prairie Birds, 97. 


Rhubarb, Boiled, 237. 


Preserved Peaches, 147. 


Mould, 209. 


Tomatoes, 116. 


Rice and Sago, 315. 


Preserving Fruit, 240. 


Roly-Poly, 297. 


Pressed Beef {see recipe for Boil- 


Sago, 107. 


ing Beef), 87. 


Savoury, 340. 


Prunes, Stewed, 93. 


Semolina, 110. 


Puddings :— 


Suet, 185. 


Batter, Baked, 64. 


Town, 411. 



470 



INDEX. 



Puddings 

Treacle, 130. 

Vermicelli, 278. 

Viennoise, 247. 

Wyvern, 18] . 

Yorkshire, 403. 
Puddings, Sauces for, 262. 

, To steam, 130. 

Pulled Bread, 307. 



Q 

ueen's Pudding, 287. 
uinces for Pies, 356. 



Rabbit, Baked, 250. 

, Boiled, 103. 

Bones, To stew, 2. 

, Civet of, 417. 

, Curried, 258. 

■ Gateau, 250. 

made Hot in Sauce, 389. 

Pie, 324. 

, Spanisli Stew of, 142. 

Radishes and Watercress, 110. 
Raisins with Boiled Rice, 61. 
Raspberry Fool, 263. 

Sandwich Pudding, 406. 

Rechauffes : — 

Bacon made Hot, 92. 

Beef, Hashed, Economical, 
387. 

Beef Steak Pudding Warmed, 
235. 

Cod Pie, 4. 

Scallop, 16, 47. 

, Salt, 147. 

Cold Meats, To re-dress. Cro- 
quettes {see Rissoles, 13) ; 



Rechauffes {continued) : — 

Kromeskies, 272 ; Rissoles, 
13 ; Hash, 387; Meat Cake, 
as in Fish Cake, 24 ; Gateau, 
as in Rabbit Gateau, 250 ; 
Patties, 259 ; Potted Meats, 
15 ; Meat made Hot in Sauce, 
389. 

China Chilo, 249. 

Elegant Economist's Pudding, 
184. 

Fish Cake, 24. 

Fowl, Fricasseed, 271. 

Kedgeree, 21. 

Kromeskies, 272. 

Lamb, Devilled, 176. 

, Minced, 186. 

INIutton a la Sauce Piquante, 
132. 

, Hashed, 190. 

, Loin of, Stewed, 172. 

, Minced, 37. 

Pies, 6. 

Tart, 21. 

Rabbit Gateau, 250. 

made Hot in Sauce, 389. 

Rice Mould, 167. 

Rissoles {see Croquettes), 13. 

Salmon, Pickled, 204. 

Savoury Meat Cake, 47. 

Suet Dumpling toasted, 103. 

Shepherd's Pie, 23. 

Spicy Pie, 178. 

Veal Cake, 202. 

, Minced, 183. 

Red Cabbage, Pickled, 314. 

, Stewed, 367. 

Red Currant Dumpling, 262. 

Jelly, 241. 

Red Mullet, Baked, 302. 

Red Rice {see Rothe Griitzo), 

420. 
Rhubarb Jam, 134. 

Mould, 209. 

, Pudding, Boiled, 237. 

, Stewed, 192. 

Ribs of Beef, 20. 



A YEAR'S 


COOKERY. 471 


Ribs of Beef, Italian Fashion, 60. 


Rolled Loin of IMutton with 


Rice and Barley Porridge, 224. 


Forcemeat, 159. 


„ Cheese, 82. 


Steak, 232. 


„ Sago Pudding, 315. 


Veal, 188. 


„ Tapioca, Baked, 98. 


Rolls, Hot, 318. 


, Boiled, for Curry, 264. 


Rolls of Veal, 177. 


, Boiled with Raisins, 6.1. 


Roly-Poly Pudding, 297. 


Cake, 279. 


, Suet Crust for, 234. 


Gateau, 346. 


Rothe Griitze, 420. 


Gruel, 206. 


Rough Puff Paste, 203. 


Milk, 226, 227. 


Roux, 14. 


Mould, 350. 


Quickly made, 15 


Rechauffe of, 167. 


Royal Sandwiches, 11. 


Pudding, Plain, 89. 


Rump Steak, Broiled, 40. 


, Savoury, 226. 


, Roasted, 46. 


Water, 171. 


, Stewed for Invalids. 


^with Stewed Apples and 


408. 


Beetroot, 50. 


Russian Salad, 139. 


Rissoles, 13. 




of Veal, 245. 




, to free from Grease, 14. 




Rizzared Haddock, 323. 




Roast Ducklings, 269. 


s 


Fillet of Beef, 73. 




Fowl or Chicken, 239. 


Saddle of Mutton, To choose, 19. 


Goose, 339. 


Sage and Onion Stuffing, 340. 


, Apple Sauce for. 


Sago, 206. 


340. 


and Rice Pudding, 315. 


, Brown Gravy for, 


Mould with Fruit Juice, 


340. 


351. 


, Sage and Onion Stuff- 


Soup, 207. 


ing for, 340. 


Pudding, 107. 


, Savoury Pudding to 


Salad, 111. 


serve with, 340. 


, Celery, 393. 


Grouse, 311. 


, Hambro', 287. 


Hare, 399. 


, Haricot, 131. 


, Gravy for, 400. 


— — , Italian, 166. 


Partridge, 348. 


of Chicken or Grouse. 3 1 1 


Pheasant, 367. 


, Potato, 148. 


Pork, Leg of, 353. 


, Salmon, 120. 


Shoulder of Mutton, 425. 


, Russian, 139. 


To, 100. 


, To serve, 210. 


■ Turkey, 432. 


Sally Lunns, 306. 


Rolled Bacon, 262. 


Salmi of Pheasant, 368. 


Beef, 121. 


Salmon, Boiled, 246. 


Breast of Veal, 226. 


Cutlets, 262. 


' Pudding, Plain, 116. 


, Devilled, 37. 



472 



INDEX. 



Salmon, Kippered, Broiled, 19. 

, Purchase of, 17. 

■ , ^Mayonnaise of, 197. 

Salad, 120. 

, Pickled, 204. 

Salsify, 371. 

Salt Cod Ptechauffe, 147. 
Salt Fish, Boiled, 146. 
Sardines, To serve, 23. 
Sauce : — 

Anchovy, 260. 

Apple, 340. 

Bearnaise, 124. 

Blanche, 165. 

Brawn, 29. 

Bread, 361. 

Caper, 119. 

Celery, 422. 

Chestnut, 432. 

Dutch, 186. 

Egg, 146. 

, Golden Rain, 320. 

Gooseberry, 215. 

Horseradish, 411. 

Liver, 429. 

Lobster, 214. 

Maitre d'Hotel, 177. 

Mayonnaise, 312. 

Melted Butter, 260. 

Mint, 126. 

Mustard, 249. 

Neapolitan, 69. 

Onion, 356. 

Oyster, 358 

Parsley, 177. 

Piquante, 177. 

Shrimp, 53. 

Tartar, 312. 

Tomato, 257- 

Store, 376. 

Venison, 332. 

Whip, 263. 

White, 432. 
Sauces for Turbot, 214. 

, Sweet, for Puddings, 262. 

Sausage Rolls, 382. 
Sausages, 118. 



Sausages and Lentils, 138. 

, Baked, 422. 

, Fried, 16. 

on Toast, 16. 

Savoury Beef, Stewed, 196. 

Custard, 207, 275. 

Eggs, 1. 

Hash of Australian Meat, 

64. 

Jelly, 392. 

Omelette, 317. 

Pudding, 340. 

Rice, 226. 

Savoys, 210. 
Scallops, 105. 
Scalloped Cod, 16, 47. 

Eggs, 350. 

Oysters, 167. 

Scones, To serve, 196. 

with Baking Powder, 305. 

wdth Sour Milk, 305. 

Scotch Broth, 99. 

CoUops, 19. 

Hotch Potch, 251. 

Scrag End of Mutton with Rice, 

85. 
Sea Kale, 223. 

Pie, 113. 

Semolina Mould, 266. 

Pudding, 110. 

September, Dessert Fruits for, 

342. 
Shad or Salmon Shad, 117. 
Shah, Soup for the, 329. 
Shallots, To store, 291. 
Shank of Mutton, To stew, 18. 
Sheep's Kidneys, Broiled, 51. 

, To choose, 1. 

Head, Stewed, 54. 

Shepherd's Pie, 23. 

Short Crust, Economical, 228. 

, Superior, 228. 

Shrimp Sauce, 53. 
Shrimps, Buttered, 266. 

, Potted, 389. 

Sippets, Custard, 218. 
Skate, 20. 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



473 



Skate, Crimped, 20. 

with Brown Butter, 74. 

Skin and Bones of Fish, Use of, 

10. 
Sliced Tomatoes, 332. 
Smelts, 63. 
Soda Buns, Good, 293. 

Cake, 293. 

Sole k la Horly, 361. 

au Gratin, 174. 

, Cold {see Cod Pie, Fish 

Cakes, Scalloped Cod, &c.), 4. 

. Fillets of. Saute, 9. 

■ , To fillet, 9. 

, Filleted a la Maitre d'Hotel, 

131. 
, Filleted, Rolled, and Baked, 

97. 

, To choose, 6. 

, "Slips," Baked, 15 

, Fried, 125. 

Soup : — 

A la Jardiniere, 144. 

Artichoke {see Palestine Soup), 
147. 

Bisque, 359. 

Cabbage, 67. 

Celery, 410. 

Clear {see Soup, To Clarify), 
143. 

, from Fresh ]^.Ie:\t, 

274. 

Colberts, 144. 

Croute au Pot, 198. 

Cre9y, 11. 

Fish, Simple, 255. 

For the Shah, 329. 

Game {see Guinea Fowl), 
79. 

Giblet, 58. 

Gravy, 313, 334. 

Guinea Fowl, 79. 

Hare, 35. 

Haricot, 107- 

Julienne, 144 

, quickly made, 79. 

Kidney, 93. 



Soup {continved) : — 

Lentil, 134. 

Leveret, 223. 

Lobster, 193. 

Macaroni, 92. 

Macedoine, 144. 

Milk, 7. 

Mock Turtle (Tinned), 114. 

Mulligatawny, 30. 

Onion, 39. 

Ox-tail, 86. 

Oyster, 344. 

Palestine, 417. 

Parsnip, 411. 

Pease, 157. 

Potato, 47. 

Sago, 207. 

Spring, 144. 

Tinned, 114. 

Tomato, 109, 

Vermicelli, 123. 

Victoria, 70. 
Sour Mutton, 131. 

, Pickle for, 120. 

Spanish Stew, 142. 
Spicy Pie, 178. 
Spinach, 182. 
Sprats, Broiled, 386. 

, Dried, 94. 

, Fried, 386. 

, Pickled {see Pickled Her- 
rings), 299. 
Steak, Broiled, 40. 

, Rolled, 232. 

, To choose, 1. 

, Stewed, 55. 

Steamed Potatoes, 178. 
Steam, To, a Pudding, 130. 
Stew, Irish, 108. 

, Piquante of Veal, 345. 

, Spanish, 142. 

, Swiss, 212. 

Stewed Apples and Rice with 

Beetroot, 50. 

Beef with Onions, 59. 

Beef with Vegetables k la 

Jardiniere, 117. 



474 



INDEX. 



Stewed Celery, 409. 






Cheese, 176. 




T 


Chicken with Tomatoes and 


Tapioca, 206. 


Mushrooms, 325. 




and Apples, 82. 


Eels, 44. 




and Bice baked, 98. 


Endive, 414. 




Pudding, Plain, 217. 


Eggs with Cheese, Vl. 




Tarragon Vinegar, 276. 


Giblets, 66. 




Tart, Baked Custard, 35. 


— — Mushrooms, 120. 




, Mutton, 21. 


Mutton with Vegetables, 


71, 


Tartar Sauce, 312. 


149, 270. 




Tarts, Various, 285. 


Ox-kidney, 135. 




Tea, 8. 


Ox-tails, 180. 




Teacakes, 306. 


Pigeons, 281. 




, To serve, 77. 


Prunes, 93. 




Tea-cosy, 9. 


Pvhubarb, 192. 




Tea-pot, To keep clean, 8. 


Sheep's Head, 54. 




Thickening, 14. 


■ Steak, 55. 




quicklv made, 15. 


Veal, 268. 




Thick Milk," 207. 


Stirabout Cheese, 277. 




Tinned Meats {see Australian 


Stock, Fish, 53. 




Meats), 63. 


, Calf's-foot, 393. 




Peaches, 147. 


from Bones, 75. 




Pine Apple, 142. 


from fresh Meat, 274. 




Prawns, 67. 


Stone Cream, 242. 




Tongues, 3. 


Store Sauce, Tomato, 376. 




Toad-in-the-Hole, 29. 


Strawberry Cream, 310. 




Toast, Anchovy, 17. 


Stuffed Tomatoes, 266. 




, Marrow, 38. 


Stuffing for Goose, 340. 




, Milk, 226. 


"Suet Dumplings, Remains 


of, 


, Sausages on, 16. 


toasted, 103. 




Water, 171. 


Pudding, 185. 




Toasted Bacon, 35 


, To choose, 6. 




Tomato Beef, 355. 


, To chop {see Sea Pie), 


Puree, 109. 


113. 




Sauce from fresh Tomatoes, 


, To keep, 278. 




257. 


Sugar Browning, 5. 




Sauce from preserved To- 


Icing for Puddin 


gs. 


matoes, 257. 


287. 




Store Sauce, 376. 


Sultana Cake, 279. 




Tomatoes and Bacon, 253. 


Sunday, Meals for, 8. 




and Mushrooms stewed, 


Sweetbreads, Lambs', 365. 




Chicken with, 325. 


Sweet Macaroni, 292. 




, Baked, excellent, 248. 


Sauces for Puddings, 


on Toast {see Tomatoes, Pre- 


262. 




served), 116. 


Syrup, Almond, 235 




, Sliced, 332. 


, Lemon, 119. 




, Stuffed, 266. 



A YEAR'S COOKERY. 



475 



Tomatoes with Mutton Collops, 


Vegetables : — 


343. 


Artichokes, Globe, Boiled, 290. 


Tongue, Collared, 3. 


, Jerusalem, 407. 


, To carve, 7. ^ 


Asparagus, 222. 


— — and Macaroni, 223. 


Beans, French or Kidney, 295. 


' , Potted, 337. 


, Broad or Windsor, 258. 


, To boil, 270. 


, Haricot, 229. 


Town Pudding, 411. 


Beetroot, Remains of, 29G 


Treacle Pudding, 13 


Brussels Sprouts, To boil, 210 


Tart, 285. 


Cabbage, To boil, 210. 


Tripe, Boiled, 412. 


, Red, Stewed, 367. 


a la Coutance, 366. 


Carrots, To boil, 247. 


Turbot, Boiled, 213. 


Celery, Stewed, 409. 


, Filleted, 230. 


Colcannon, 290. 


, Sauces for, 214. 


Endive, Stewed, 414. 


Turkey, Boiled, 432. 


Greens, To boil, 210. 


, Boast, 432. 


Onions, Boiled, 372. 


Turnips, To boil, 342. 


Parsnips, Boiled, 342. 


, To masb, 342. 


, Mashed, 342. 


Turnovers, Jam, 336. 


Peas, Green, 253. 




Potato Chips, 160. 




Croquettes, 380. 




Snow, 141. 




Potatoes, Baked, 175. 


V 


, Browned, 362. 




, Cold, browned, 433. 


Veal and Ham Pie, 169. 


, Fried, 59. 


, Breast of, Boiled, 226. 


, Mashed, 184, 367. 


Broth, 96. 


Soufflees, 160. 


Cake, 202. 


, Steamed, 178. 


, Curried, 264. 

, Fillet of. Baked or Roasted, 


Salsify, 371. 


Savoys, To boil, 210. 


237. 


Scorzonera, 383. 


Forcemeat, 237. 


Sea Kale, 223. 


■ , Gravy for, 238. 


Tomatoes, Baked, excellent 


, Minced, 183. 


248. 


. Neck of, Rolled and 


, Sliced, 332. 


Roasted, 201. 


, Stuffed, 266. 


Rissoles, 245. 


Turnips, Boiled, 342. 


, Rolled, 188. 189. 


, Mashed, 342. 


Rolls, 177. 


Venison Sauce, 332. 


Simply braised, 244. 

Stew Piquante, 345. 


Vermicelli for Rissoles, 14 


for Pudding, 278. 


, Stewed, 268. 


Soup, 123. 


V^egetable Marrow, Boiled, 317. 


Victoria Soup, 70. 


' 1 To store for use, 


Vienna Bread, 306. 


316. 


Flour, .307. 



476 INDEX. 


Viennoise Pudding, 247. 


White Sauce, 432. 


Vinegar, Tarragon, 276. 


Whiting, Baked, 298 




, Fried, 32. 




, To choose, 31. 




Windsor Beans (see Broad Beans), 


W 


258. 


Walnut Ketchup, 276. 


Wine, Jelly, 391. 
Woodcock, Mock, 127. 


Walnuts, Pickled, 276. 


Wyvern Puddings, 181, 


Waste, To prevent, 2, 4. 




Watercress and young Radishes, 




110. 




Whipped Cream, 422. 


Y 


Whip Sauce, 263. 




White Currant Jelly, 241. 


Yorkshire Pudding, 403. 



PSINTKD BY CASSBLL AND COMPANT, LIMITED, LA BELLE SAUVAr.E, LONDON, B.<X 

20.10l>2 



Selections from Cassell ^ Company's Publications, 

KllustratEtr, yine-^rt, atttr otljer Volumes. 

Abbeys and Churches of England and Wales, The: Descriptive, 
Historical, Pictorial, ijeries II. 21s. 

A Blot of Ink. Translated from the French by Q and Paul Fbancke. 
5S. 

Adventure, The World ef. Fully Illustrated. In Three Vols. gs. eacli. 

Africa and its Explorers, The Story of. By Dr. Robert Brown, 
F.L.S. lUustrated. Vol, I., 73. 6d. 

Agrarian Tenures. By the Rt. Hon. G. Shaw-Lefevre, M P. los. 6d. 

Anthea. By Cecils Cassavetti (a Russian). A Sensational Story, 
bastd on authentic facts of the time of the Greek War of Independence, 
los. 6d. 

Arabian Nights Entertainments, Cassell's Pictorial. 109. 6d. 

Architectural Drawing. By R. Phen^ Spiers. Illustrated. los. 6d. 

Art, The Magazine of. Yearly Vol. With 12 Photogravures, Etchings, 
&c., and about 400 Illustrations. i6s. 

Artistic Anatomy. By Prof. M. Duval. Cheap Edition. 3s. 6d. 

Atlas, The Universal. A New and Complete General Atlas of the 
World, with 117 Pages of Maps, handsomely produced in Colours, and 
a Complete Index to about 125,000 Names. Cloth, 30s. net ; or half- 
morocco, 35s. net. 

Bashkirtseff, Marie, The Journal of. Cheap Edition. 7s. 6d. 

Bashkirtseff, Marie, The Letters of. 7s. 6d. 

Beetles, Butterflies, Moths, and Other Insects, By A. W. Kap?el, 
F.L.S., F.E.S., and W. Egmont Kirby. With is Coloured Plates. 
as. 6d. 

Biographical Dictionary, Cassell's New. 7s. 6d. 

Birds' Nests, Eggs, and Egg-Collecting. By R. Keakton. Illus- 
trated with 16 Coloured Plaies. 5s. 

Blue Pavilions, The. By Q, Author of "Dead Man's Rock," &c. 6s. 

Bob Lovell's Career. A Story of American Railway Life. By Edward 
S. Ki.Lis. 5a. 

Breechloader, The, and How to Use It. By W. W. Greener. 2s. 

British Ballads. With 275 Original Illustrations. In Two Vols. 15s. 

British Battles on Land and Sea. By James Grant. With about 
600 Illustrations. Three Vols., 4to, £1 7s.; Library Edition, £1 los. 

British Battles, Recent. Illustrated. 410, gs. ; Library Edition, los. 

Butterflies and Moths, European. With 61 Coloured Plates. 353. 

Canaries and Cage-Birds, The Illustrated Book of. With 56 Fac- 
simile Coloured Plates, 35s. Half-morocco, £2 5s. 

Carnation Manual, The. Edited and Issued by the National Carnation 
and Picotee Society (Southern Section). 3s. 6d. 

Cassell's Family Magazine. Yearly Vol. Illustrated, ga. 

Cathedrals, Abbeys, and Churches of England and Wales. 
Descriptive, Historical, Pictorial. Po/>uIar Edition. Two Vols. 25s. 

Celebrities of the Century. Cheap Edition. los. 6d. 

Cities of the World. Four Vols. Illustrated. 7s. 6d. each 

Civil Service, Guide to iimployment in the. 3s. 6d. 

Climate and Health Resorts. By Dr Burnev Yeo 7s. 6d. 

Clinical Manuals for Practitioners and Students of Medicine. A 
List of Volumes to warded post iree on application to the Publishers. 

Colonist's Medical Handbook, The. By E. A. Bakton.M.R.C.S. 2s.6d. 

Colour. By Prof. A. H. Church. With Coloured Plates. 3s. 6d. 

5G. 5-93 



Selections from Cassell ^ Company s Publications. 

ColumDus, The Career of. By Charles Elton, Q.C. ios. 6d. 

Commercial Botany of the Nineteenth Century. 3s. 6d. 

Cookery, A Year's. By Phyllis Browne. 3s. 6d. 

Cookery, Cassell's Shilling. 384 pages, limp cloth, is. 

Cookery, Vegetarian. By A. G. Payne, is. 6d. 

Cooking by Gas, The Art of. By Marie J. Sugg. Illustrated. 3s. 6d. 

Cotta- e Gardening, Poultry, Bees, Allotments, Food, House, 

Window and Town Gardens. Edited by W. Robinson, F.L.S., 

Author of "The English Flower Garden." Fully Illustrated. First 

Half yearly Volume. Cloth, 2S. 6d. 
Countries of the World, The. By Robert Brown, M.A., Ph.D., &c. 

Complete in Six Vols., with about 750 Illustrations. 4to, 7s. 6d. each. 
Cyclopaedia, Cassell's Concise. Brought down to the latest date. With 

about 600 Illustrations. Cheap Edition, 7s. 6d. 
Cyclopaedia, Cassell's Miniature. Containing 30,000 subjects. Cloth, 

2s.6d. ; half-roxburgh, 4s. 
Daughter of the South, A ; and Shorter Stories. By Mrs. Burton 

Harrison. 4s. 
Dickens, Character Sketches from. First, Second, and Third Series. 

With Six Original Drawmgs in each by F. Barnard. 2IS. each. 
Dick Whittington, A Modern. By James Payn. In One Vol., 6s. 
Dog, Illustrated Book of the. By Vero Shaw, B.A. With 28 Coloured 

Plates. Cloth bevelled, 35s. ; half-morocco, 45s. 
Domestic Dictionary, The. Illustrated. Cloth, 7s. 6d. 
Dore Bible, The. With 200 Full-page Illustrations by Dor6. 15s. 
Dore Gallery, The. With 250 Illustrations by Dor6. 410, 42s. 
Dore's Dante's Inferno. Illustrated by Gustave Dor6. With Intro- 
duct on by A. J. Butler. Cl-th gilt or buckram, 7s. 6d. 
Dore's Milton's Paradise Lost. Illustrated by Dor6. 4to, 213. 
Dr. Dumany's Wife. A Novel. By Maurus JcSkai. 6s. 
Dulce Domum. Rhymes and Songs for Chil.lren Edi'ed bv John 

•■armhr, Author of " .aude.imus," &c. Old N .tation ^nd Words. 5s. 

_N.B.— The words of the songs in "Dulce Domum" (with the Airs both 

in Tonic sol- a and Old Notation) can be had in Two Parts, 6d. each. 
Earth, Our, and its Story. By Dr. Robert Brown, F.L.S. With 

Coloured Plates and numerous Wood Engravings. Three Vols. gs. each. 
Edinburgh, Old and New. With 600 Illustrations. Three Vols. gs. each. 
Egypt: Descriptive, Historical, and Picturesque. By Prof G. Ebers. 

With 800 Original Engravings. Popular Edition. In Two Vols. 42s. 
Electricity in the Service of Man. Illustrated, gs. 
Electricity, Practical. By Prof. W. E. Ayrton. 7s. 6d. 
Encyclopaedic Dictionary, The. In Fourteen Divisional Vols., xos.6d. 

each ; or Seven Vols., half-morocco, 21s. each ; half-russia, 25s. 
England, Cassell's Illustrated History of. With 2,000 Illustrations. 

Ten Vols., 410, gs. each. Revised Edition. Vols. I. to VI. gs. each. 
English Dictionary, Cassell's. Giving definitions of more than 

100,000 Words and Phrases. Cloth, 7s. 6d. Cheap Edition. 3s. 6d. 
English History, The Dictionary of. Cheap Edition. los. 6d. 
English Literature, Dictionary of. By W. Davenport Adams 

Cheap Edition, 7s. 6d. ; Roxburgh, los. 6d. 
English Literature, Library of. By Prof Henry Morley. Complete 

in Five Vols., 7s. 6d. each. 



Selections from Cassell ^ Company's Publications. 

English Literature, Morley's First Sketch of. Revised Edition. 7s. 6d. 
English Literature, The Story of. By Anna Buckland. 3s. 6d. 
English Writers. By Prof. Henry Morley. Vols. L to IX. 5s. each. 
iEsop's Fables. Illustrated by Ernest Griset. Cloth, 3s. 6d. 
Etiquette of Good Society, is. ; cloth, is. 6d. 

Europe, Cassell's Pocket Guide to. Edition for 1893. Leather, 6s. 
Fairway Island. By Horace Hutchinson. With 4 Full-page Plates. 5s. 
Faith Doctor, The. A Novel. By Dr. Edward Eggleston. 6s. 
Family Physician, The. By Eminent Physicians and Surgeons. 

Neiu and Revised Edition. Cloth, 2is. ; Roxburgh, 25s. 
Father Stafford. A Novel. By Anthony Hope. 6s. 
Field Naturalist's Handbook, The. By the Revs. J. G. Wood and 

Theodore Wood. Cheap Edition. 2s. 6d. 
Fig^ier's Popular Scientific 'Works. With Several Hundred Illustra- 

tif^ns in each. Newly Revised and Corrected. 3s. 6d. each. 
The Human Race. | Mammalia. | Ocean World. 

The Insect World. Reptiles and Birds. 

World before the Deluge. The Vegetable World. 
Flora's Feast. A Masque of Flowers. Penned and Pictured by Walter 

Crane. With 40 Pages in Colours. 5s. 
Football, The Rugby Union Game. Edited by Rev. F. Marshall. 

Illustrated. 7s. 6d. 
Fraser,^ John Drummond. By Philalethes. A Story of Jesuit 

Intrigue in the Church of England. 5s. 
Garden Flowers, Familiar. By Shirley Hibberd. With Coloured 

Plates by F. E. Hulmk, F.L.S. Complete in Five Series. I2s. 6d. each. 
Gardening, Cassell's Popular. Illustrated. Four Vols. 5s. each. 
George Saxon, The Reputation of. By Morley Roberts. 5s. 
Gilbert, Elizabeth, and her Work for the Blind. By Frances 

Martin. 2s. 6d. 
Gleanings from Popular Authors. Two Vols. With Original Illus- 
trations. 4to, gs. each. Two Vols, in One, 15s. 
Gulliver's Travels. With 88 Engravings by Morten. Cheap Edition, 

Cloth, 3s. 6d. ; cloth gilt, 5s. 
Gun and its Development, The. By W. W. Greener. With 500 

Illustrations. IDS. 6d. 
Health at School. By Clement Dukes, M.D., B.S. 7s. 6d. 
Heavens, The Story of the. By Sir Robert Stawell Ball, LL.D., 

F.R.S., F.R.A.S. With Coloured Plates. Popular Edition. I2s. 6d. 
Heroes of Britain in Peace and War. With 300 Original Illus- 
trations. Cheap Edition. Two Vols., 3s. 6d. each ; or Two Vols, in 

One, cloth gilt, 7s. 6d. 
Hiram Golf's Religion; or, the "Shoemaker by the Grace 01 

God." 2s. 
History, A Foot-note to. Eight Years of Trouble in Samoa. By 

Robert Louis Stevenson. 6s. 
Historic Houses ofthe United Kingdom. Profusely Illustrated. los. 6d. 
Hors de Combat ; or. Three Weeks in a Hospital. Founded on 

Facts. By Gertrude & Ethel Armitage Southam. Illustrated. 5s. 
Horse, The Book of the. By Samuel Sidney. With 28 Fac-simile 

Coloured Plates. Enlarged Edition. Demy 4to, 35s . ; half-morocco, 45s. 
Houghton, Lord : The Life, Letters, and Friendships of Richard 

Monckton Milnes, First Lord Houghton. By T. Wemyss 

Reid. In Two Vols., with Two Portraits. 32s. 
Household, Cassell's Book of the. Complete in Four Vols. 5s. each. 

Four Vols, in Two, half morocco, 25s. 
Hygiene and Public Health. By B. Arthur Whiteleggb, M.D. 7s. 6d. 



Selections from Cassell f Company's Publications. 

India, CasseU's History of. By James Grant. With about 400 

Illustrations. Two Vols., gs. each. One Vol., 15s. 
In-door Amusements, Card Games, and Fireside Fun, CasseU's 

Book of. Cheap Edition. 2S. 
Into the Unknown: A Romance of South Africa. By Lawrence 

Fletcher. 4s. 
"I Saw Three Ships," and other Winter's Tales. By Q, Author of 

"Dead Man's Rock," &c, 6s. 
Island Nights' Entertainments. By R. L. Stevenson. Illustrated, 6s. 
Italy from the Fall of Napoleon I. in 1815 to 1890. By J. W. Probyn. 

New attd Cheaper Edition. 3s. 6d. 
Joy and Health. By Martellius. 3s. 6d. Edition de Luxe, 7s. 6d. 
Kennel Guide, The Practical. By Dr. Gordon Stables, is. 
Khiva, A Ride to. By Col. Fred. Burnaby. is. 6d. 
" La Bella," and Others. Being Certain Stories Recollected by Egerton 

Castle, Author of " Consequences." 6s. 
Ladies' Physician, The, By a London Physician. 6s. 
Lady's Dressing-room, The. Translated from the French of Baroness 

Staffe by Lady Colin Campbell. 3s. 6d. 
Leona. By Mrs. Molesworth. 6s. 
Letts's Diaries and other Time-saving Publications published 

exclusively by Casskll & Company. {A list free on applicatioti.) 
Little Minister, The. By J. M. Barrie. One Vol. 6s. 
Locomotive Engine, The Biography of a. By Henry Frith. 5s. 
Loftus, Lord Augustus, The Diplomatic Reminiscences of, 1837- 

1862. With Portrait. Two Vols., 32s. 
London, Greater. By Edward Walford. Two Vols. With about 

400 Illustrations, gs. each. 
London, Old and New^. Six Vols., each containing about 200 

Illustrations and Maps. Cloth, gs. each. 
London Street Arabs. By Mrs. H. M. Stanley. Illustrated, 5s. 
Mathew, Father, His Life and Times. By F.J, Mathew, 2s. 6d, 
Medicine Lady, The. By L. T. Meade. In One Vol., 6s. 
Medicine, Manuals for Students of. {A List forwarded post free.) 
Modern Europe, A History of. By C. A. Fyffe, M.A. Complete in 

Three Vols., with full-page Illustrations, 7s. 6d. each. 
Mount Desolation. An Australian Romance. By W. Carlton D awe, 5s. 
Music, Illustrated History of. By Emil Naumann. Edited by the 

Rev. Sir F. A. Gore Ouseley, Bart. Illustrated, Two Vols. 31s. 6d. 
Musical and Dramatic Copyright, The Law of. By Edward 

Cutler, Thomas Eustace Smith, and Frederic E, Weatherly, 

Barristers-at-Law. 3s. 6d. 
Napier, Life and Letters of the Rt. Hon. Sir Joseph, Bart,, LL.D,, 

&c. ByA, C, EwALD, F.S.A, New and Revised Edition, 7s. 6d. 

National Library, CasseU's, In Volumes. Paper covers, 3d, ; cloth, 
6d. (A Complete List of the Vohinies post free on application.) 

Natural History, CasseU's Concise, By E, Perceval Wright, 
M.A., M.D., F.L.S. With several Hundred Illustrations, 7s. 6d. 

Natural History, CasseU's New. Edited by Prof, P, Martin 
Duncan, M,B,, F.R.S., F.G.S. Complete in Six Vols. With about 
2,000 Illustrations, Cloth, gs. each. 



Selections from Cassell ^ Company's Ptchlications. 

Nature's Wonder Workers. By Kate R. Lovell. Illustrated. 3s. 6d. 
Nursing for the Home and for the Hospital, A Handbook of. 

By Catherine J. Wood. Cheap Edition, is. 6d. ; cloth, 2s. 
Nursing of Sick Children, A Handbook for the. By Catherine 

J. Wood. 2s. 6d. 
O'DriscoH's W^eird, and other Stories. By A. Werner. 5s. 
Odyssey, The Modern ; or, Ulysses up to Date. Cloth gilt, los. 6d. 
Ohio, The New. A Story of East and West. By Edward Everett 

Hale. 6s. 
Oil Painting, A Manual of. By the Hon. John Collier. 2s. 6d. 
Orchid Hunter, Travels and Adventures of an. By Albert 

MiLLicAN, Fully Illustrated. 12s. 6d. 
Our Own Country. Six Vols. With 1,200 Illustrations. 7s. 6d. each- 
Out of the Jaws of Death. By Frank Barrett. In One Vol., 6s. 
Painting, The English School of. Cheap Edition. 3s. 6d. 
Painting, Practical Guides to. With Coloured Plates :— 
Marine Painting. 5s. 



Animal Painting. 53. 
China Painting. 5s. 
Figure Painting. 7s. 6d. 
Elementary Flower Paint- 
ing. 3s. 



Tree Painting. 5s. 
Water-Colour Painting. 5s. 
Neutral Tint. 5s. 
Sepia, in Two Vols., 3s. each ; or 

in One Vol., 5s. 
Flowers, and How to Paint 

Them. 5s. 



Peoples of the World, The. In Six Vols. By Dr. Robert Brown. 

Illustrated. 7s. 6d. each. 
Perfect Gentleman, The. By the Rev. A. Smvthe- Palmer, D.D. 3s. 6d. 
Phillips, Watts, Artist and Playwright. By Miss E. Watts 

Phillips. With 32 Plates. 105. 6d. 
Photography for Amateurs. By T. C. Hepworth. Enlarged and 

Revised Edition. Illustrated, is. ; or cloth, is. 6d. 
Phrase and Fable, Dictionary of. By the Rev. Dr. Brewer. Cheap 

Editioft, Enlarged, cloth, 3s. 6d. ; or with leather back, 4s. 6d. 
Physiology for Students, Elementary. By A. T. Schofield, M.D., 

M.R.C.S., &c. Illustrated. 7s. 6d. 
Picturesque America. Complete in Four Vols., with 48 E.xquisite Steel 

Plates and about 800 Original Wood Engravings. £2 2s. each. 
Picturesque Canada. With 600 Original Illustrations. Two Vols. £6 6s. 

the Set. 
Picturesque Europe. Complete in Five Vols. Each containing 

13 Exquisite Steel Plates, from Original Drawings, and nearly 200 

Original Illustrations. Cloth, £3i; half-morocco, £31 los. ; morocco 

gilt, £52 los. Popular Edition. In Five Vols., i8s. each. 
Picturesque Mediterranean.The. With Magnificent Original Illustrations 

by the leading Artists of the Day. Complete in Two Vols. £2 2s. each. 
Pigeon Keeper, The Practical. By Lewis Wright. Illustrated. 3s. 6d. 
Pigeons, The Book of. By Robert Fulton. Edited and Arranged by 

L. Wright. With 50 Coloured Plates, 31s. 6d. ; half-morocco, £2 2s. 
Pity and of Death, The Book of. By Pierre Lotl Translated by 

T. P. O'Connor, M.P. 5s. 
Playthings and Parodies. Short Stories by Barry Pain. 5s. 
Poems, Aubrey de Vere's. A Selection. Edited by J. Dennis. 3s. 6d, 
Poetry, The Nature and Elements of. By E. C. Stedman. 6s. 
Poets, Cassell's Miniature Library of the. Price is. each Vol. 
Portrait Galley, The Cabinet. First, Second, and Third Series, each con- 

Uining 36 Cabinet Photographs of Eminent Men and Womer With 

Biographical Sketches. 15s. each. 



Selections from Cassell ^ Company's Publications. 



Poultry Keeper, The Practical. By L, Wright. Illustrated. 3s. 6d. 

Poultry, The Book of. By Lewis Wright. Popular Edition. los. 6d. 

Poultry, The Illustrated Book of. By Lewis Wright. With Fifty 
Coloured Plates. New and Revised Edition. Cloth, 31s. 6d. 

Queen Summer ; or, The Tourney of the Lily and the Rose. With Forty 
Pages of Designs in Colours by Walter Crane. 6s. 

Queen Victoria, The Life and Times of. By Robert Wilson. Com- 
plete in Two Vols. With numerous Illustrations, gs. each. 

Rabbit-Keeper, The Practical. By Cuniculus. Illustrated. 3s. 6d. 

Raffles Haw, The Doings of. By A. Conan Doyle. 5s. 

Railway Guides, Official Illustrated. With Illustrations, Maps, &c. 
Price IS. each ; or in cloth, 2S. each. 



Great Eastern Railway. 
Great Northern Railway. 
London, Brighton and South 

Coast Railwav. 
London and North-Western 

Railway. 
Rovings of a Restless Boy, The 

trated. 5s. 
Railway Library, Cassell's. Crown 8vo, boards, 2S. each. 



Great Western Railway. 
London and South-Western 

Railway. 
Midland Railway. 
South-Eastern Railway. 
By Katharine B. Foot. Illus- 



The Phantom City. By w. Westall. 
Jack Gordon, Knight Errant, 

Gotham, 1883. By Barclay 

North. 
The Diamond Button. By Barclay 

North. 
Another's Crime. By Julian Haw- 
thorne. 
The yoke of the Thorah. By 

Sidney Luska. 
Who is John noman? By Charles 

Henry Beckett. 
The Tragedy of brinkwatbr. By 

Martha l. Moodey. 
AN American Pexman. By Julian 

Hawthorne. 
Section 658; or, the Fatal Letter. 

By Julian Hawthorne. 
The Brown Stone Boy. By W. H. 

Bishop. 
A Tragic Mystery. By Julian 

Hawthorne. 
The Great Bank Robbery. By 

Julian Hawthorne. 

Memoir. Compiled from his Diary. 



Metzerott, Shoemaker. By Kath- 
arine P. woods. 

David Todd. By David Maclure. 

The Astonishing History of troy 
Town. By Q. 

The Admirable Lady Biddy Fane. 
By Frank Barrett. 

Commodore JLNK. ByG. Manville 
Fenn. 

St. cuthbert's Tower. By Flor- 
ence Warden. 

The Man with a Thumb. By Bar- 
clay North. 

BY right not Law. By R. 
Sherard. 

Within Sound of the Weir. By 
Thomas St. E. Hake. 

Under a Strange Mask. By Frank 
Barrett. 

The coombsberrow Mystery. By 
James Colwall. 

Dead Man's Rock. By g. 

A Queer Race. By W. Westall. 

Captain Trafalgar. By Westall 
and Laurie. 

Redgrave, Richard, C.B., R.A. 
By F, j\I. Redgrave, ids. 6d. 

Rivers of Great Britain : Descriptive, Historical, Pictorial. 

The Royal River : The Thames, from Source to Sea. Popular 

Edition, i6s. 
Rivers of the East Coast. With highly finished Engravings. 
Popular Edition, i6s. 

Robinson Crusoe, Cassell's New Fine-Art Edition of. With 
upwards of 100 Original Illustrations. 7s. 6d. 

Romance, The World of. Illustrated. Cloth, gs. 

Russo-Turkish "War, Cassell's History of. With about 500 Illus- 
trations. Two Vols. gs. each. 

Salisbury Parliament, A Diary of the. By H. W. Lucy. Illustrated 
by Harry Furniss. 21s. 

Saturday Journal, Cassell's. Yearly Volume, cloth, 7s. 6d. 

Scarabaeus. The Story of an African Beetle. By the Marquise Clara 
Lanza and James Clarence Harvey. Cloth, 5s. 



Selections from Cassell f Company's Publications. 



Science for All. Edited by Dr. Robert Brown. Revised Edition. 

Illustrated. Five Vols. gs. each. 
Science, The Year Book of. Edited by Prof. Bonney, F.R.S. 7s. 6d. 
Sculpture, A Primerof. By E.Roscoe Mullins. With Illustrations. 2s.6d. 
Sea, The: Its Stirring Story of Adventure, Peril, and Heroism. 

By F. Whymper. With 400 Illustrations. Four Vols. 7s. 6d. each. 
Shadow of a Song, The. A Novel. By Cecil Harley. 5s. 
Shaftesbury, The Seventh Earl of, K.G., The Life and Work of. By 

Edwin Hodder. Cheap Edition. 3s. 6d. 
Shakespeare, The Plays of. Edited by Professor Henry Morley. 

Complete in Thirteen Vols., cloth, 21s. ; half-morocco, cloth sides, 42s. 
Shakespeare, Cassell's Quarto Edition. Containing about 600 Illus- 
trations by H. C. Selous. Complete in Three Vols., cloth gilt, £3 3s. 
Shakespeare, Miniature. Illustrated. In Twelve Vols., in box, 12s.; 

or in Red Paste Grain (box to match), with spring catch, 2is. 
Shakspere, The International. Edition de Luxe. 

"KING HENRY VIII." Illustrated by Sir James Linton, P.R.L 
{Price OH application.') 

"OTHELLO." Illustrated by Frank DiCKSEE, R. A. £3 los. 

" KING HENRY IV." Illustrated by Eduard Gkutzner. £3 lOS. 

"AS YOU LIKE IT." Illustrated by Emile Bayaru. £3 los. 

"ROMEO AND JULIET." Illustrated by F. Dicksee, R.A. Is now 
out of print, and scarce. 
Shakspere, The Leopold. With 400 Illustrations. Cheap Edition. 

3s. 6d. Cloth gilt, gilt edges, 5s. ; Roxburgh, 7s. 6d. 
Shakspere, The Royal. With Steel Plates and Wood Engravings. 

Three Vols. 15s. each. 
Sketches, The Art of Making and Using. From the French o' 

G. Fkaipi'NT. By Clara Bel!.. With 50 Llustratims. 2s. 6d. 
Smuggling Days and Smuggling 'Ways ; or, The Story of a Lost 

Arc. By Commander the Hon. Henry N. Shore, R.N. With 

numerous Plans and Drawings by the Author. 7s. 6d. 
Snare of the Fowler, The. By Mrs. Alexander. In One Vol., 6s. 
Social Welfare, Subjects of. By Sir Lyon Playfair, K.C.B. 7s. 6d. 
Sports and Pastimes, Cassell's Complete Book of. Cheap Edition. 

With more than qoo Illustrations. Medium 8vo, 992 pages, cloth, 3s. 6d. 
Squire, The. Bv Mrs. Parr. In One Vol., 6s. 
Standard Library, Cassell's. Cloth, 2s. each. 



Shirley. 



Comngsby. 
Mary Barton. 
Tue Antiquary. 
Nicholas Nickleby 

(Two Vols.). 
Jane Ejrre. 
Wutherlng Heights. 
Dombey and Son 

( 1 wo Vols.). 
The Pralrte. 
Night and Morning. 
Kemlwoi th. 
Ingoldsby Legends. 
Tower of London. 
The Pioneers. 
Charles O'MaUey. 
Barnaby Rudge. 
Cakes and Ale. 
The King's Own. 
People I have Met. 
The Pathfinder. 
Evelina. 
Scott's Poems. 
Last of the Barons. 
Star-Land, 



of Mr. 



Adventures 

Ledbury. 
Ivanhoe. 
Oliver Twist. 
Selections from Hood's 

Works. 
Longfellow's Prose 

works. 
Sense and Sensibility. 
Lytton's Plays. 
Tales, Poems, and 

Sketches. Bret Harte. 
Martin Chuzziewit 

(Two Vols.). 
The Prince of trie 

House of David. 
Sher can's Plays. 
Uncle Tom's Cabin. 
Deerslayer. 
Rome and the Early 

Christians. 
The Trials of Mar- 
garet Lyndsay. 
Harry Lorrequer. 
Eugene Aram. 
By Sir R. S. Ball, LL.D., &c. Illustrated. 6s. 
Storehouse of General Information, Cassell's. With Wood EngraT- 
ings, Maps, and Coloured Plates. In Vols., 5s. each. 



Jack Hinton. 
Poe's "Works. 
Old Mortality. 
The Hour and the Man. 
Handy Andy. 
Scarlet Letter. 
Piekwiek (Two Vols.). 
Last of the Mohicans. 
Pride and Prejudice. 
YeUowplush Papers. 
Tales of the Borders, 
last Day of t^almyra. 
Washington Irving's 

Sketeh-Book. 
The Talisman. 
Rienzi. 

Old (Curiosity Shop. 
Heart of Midlothian. 
Last Days of Pompeii. 
American Humour. 
Sketches by Boz. 
Maoauiay'a Lays and 

Essays. 



Selections from Cassell ^- Company's Publications. 

Story of Francis Cludde, The. By Stanley J. Weyman. 6s. 

Story Poems. For Young and Old. Edited by E. Davenport. 3s. 6d. 

Successful Life, The. By An Elder Brother 3s. 6d. 

Sybil Knox ; or. Home Again : a Story of To-day. By Edward 
E. Hale, Author of " East and West," he. 6s. 

Teachmg in Thr-e Continents. By W. C. Grasby, 6s. 

Tenting on the Plains; or, General Custer in Kansas and Texas. 
By Elizabeth B. Custer. Illustrated. 5s. 

Thackeray, Character Sketches from. Six New and Original Draw- 
ings by Frederick Barnard, reproduced in Photogravure. 21s. 

The " Short Sf^ry " Library. 



Eleven Possible Cases. By Various 

Authors. 6s. 
Felicia. By Miss FaNNYMurfreh. Bs. 
The Poet's Audience, and Delilah. 

By Clara Savile Clarke. 5s. 
Cheap Illustrated Editions. Cloth, 



3SI oughts and Crosses. By Q. 5s, 
Ottothe Knight, &c. By Octave 

ThaneT. 5s. 
Fourteen ' o One. &c. By Eliza- 
beth Stuart Phelps. 53. 
The "Treasure Island" Series. 
3s. 6d.each. 
Kine Solonon's Mines. By H. I The Splendid Sour. By Q. 

Rider Haggard. | The Master 01 Ballanti-ae. By 

Kidn ipped. By R. L. STEVENSON, Robert Louis Stevenson. 

Treasure Island. By Robert The Blaok Arrow. By Robert 

Louis STEVENSON. I LOUIS STEVENSON. 

Tiny Luttrell. By E. W. Hornung, Author of " A Bride from the Bush." 

Crown 8vo, cloth gilt, Two Vols. 21s. 
Trees, Familiar, By G. S. Boulger, F.L.S. Two Series. With 40 

full-page Coloured P ates by W. H. J. Boot, 12s. 6d. each. 
"Unicode": the Universal Telegraphic Phrase Book. Desk or 

Pocket Edition. 2s. 6d. 
United States, Cassell s History of the. By the late Edmund 

Ollier. With 600 Illustrations. Three Vols. gs. each. 
Universal History, Cassell's Illustrated. Four V^ols. gs. each. 
Verses Grave and Gay. By Ellen Thorneycroft Fowler. 3s. 6d. 
Vision of Saints, A, By Lewis Morris. Edition de Luxe. With 20 

Full-page Illustrations. 2is. 
Waterloo Letters. Edited by Major-General H. T. Siborne, late 

Colonel R.E. With numerous Maps and Plans of the Battlefield. 2is. 
Wild Birds, Familiar. By W. Swaysland. Four Senes. With 40 

Coloured Plates in each. I2S. 6d. each. 
Wild Flowers, Familiar. By F. E. Hulme, F.L.S., F.S.A. Five 

Series. With 40 Coloured Plates in each. 12s. 6d. each. 
Wood, Rev. J. G., Life of the. By the Rev. Theodore Wood. 

Extra crown 8vo, cloth. Cheap Edition. 5s. 
^Vork. The Illustrated Journal for Mechanics. Vol, IV., for 1893, 6s. 6d. 
TVorld of Wit and Humour, The. With 400 Illustrations. 7s. 6d. 
World of W^onders. Two Vols. With 400 Illustrations. 7s. 6d. each. 
Wrecker, The. By Robert Louis Stevenson and Lloyd Osbourne, 

Illustrated. 6s. 
Yule Tide. Cassell's Christmas Annual, is. 

Zero, the Slaver : A Romance of Equatorial Africa. By Lawrence 
Fletcher. 4s. 



ILL US TRA TED MA GA ZINES. 
The Quiver. Enlarged Series. Monthly, 6d. 
CasfteIVs Family Magazine. Monthly, 7d. 
**Z>ittJe Folks" Magazine. Monthly, 6d. 
The Magazine of Art. Monthly, is. 

" Churns.^* Illustrated Paper for Bovs. Weekly, id. ; Monthly, 6d. 
CnfixclVs fiatti.riiai/ Journal. Weekly, id.; Monthly, bd. 
Work. Weekly, id.'; Monthly, 6d. 
Cassell's Complete Catalogte, containing particulars of upwards of 
One Thousand Volumes, will be sent post free on application. 
CASSELL & COMPANY, Limited, Ludgate Hill, London. 



Seleetions from Cassell <fc Company's Publications, 



gibles antr fteli^ious Morks. 

Bible, Cassell's Illustrated Family. With 900 Illustrations. Leather. 

gilt edges, £2 los. 
Bible Educator, The. Edited by the Very Rev, Dean Plumptre, D.D., 

With Illustrations, Maps, &c. Four Vols., cloth, 6s. each. 
Bible Student in the British Museum, The, By the Rev. J. G. 

KiTCHiN, M.A. New and Revised Edition, is, 4d. 
Biblewomen and Nurses. Yearly Volume. Illustrated. 3s. 
Bunyan's Pilgrim's Progress. Illustrated throughout. Cloth, 3s. 6d, ; 

cloth gilt, gilt edges, 5s. 
Child's Bible, The. With 200 Illustrations. 150^^ Thottsand. 7s. 6d. 
Child's Life of Christ, The. With 200 Illustrations. 7s, 6d. 
"Come, ye Children." Illustrated. By Rev. Benjamin Waugh. 5s. 
Conquests of the Cross. With numerous Illustrations. Complete in 

Three Vols. gs. each. 
Dore Bible. With 238 Illustrations by Gustave Dor^. Small folio, 

best morocco, gilt edges, £15. Popular Edition. With 200 Illus- 
trations. 15s. 
Early Days of Christianity, The. By the Ven. Archdeacon Farrar, 

D.D., F.R.S. Library Edition. Two Vols., 24s. ; morocco, £2 2s. 

Popular Edition. Complete in One Volume, cloth, 6s.; cloth, gilt 

edges, 73. 6d. ; Persian morocco, los. 6d. ; tree-calf, 15s. 
Family Prayer-Book, The. Edited by Rev. Canon Garbett. M.A., 

and Rev. S. Martin. Extra crown 4to, cloth, 5s. ; morocco, i8s. 
Gleanings after Harvest. Studies and Sketches by the Rev. John R. 

Vernon, M.A. Illustrated. 6s. 

"Graven in the Rock." By the Rev. Dr. Samuel Kinns, F.R.A.S., 
Author of " Moses and Geology." Illustrated. I2S. 6d. 

"Heart Chords." A Series of Works by Eminent Divines. Bound in 
cloth, red edges, One Shilling each. 

MV BTBLE. By the Right Rev. W. BOYD 
Carpenter. Bishop of Ripon. 

My Father. By the Right Rev. ASH 



TON OXENDEN, late Bishop of Mont- 
real. 

MV WORK FOR GOD. By the Right 
Rev. Bishop COTTERILU 

MY OBJECT IN LIFE. By the Ven. 
' - O.D. 



Archdeacon FARRAR, D 
My ASPIRATIONS. By the Rev. G 

Matheson, D.D. 
My Emotional Life. By tha Rev, 

Preb. CHADWick, D.D. 
My body. By the Rev. Prof. W. G 

BLAIKIE, D.D. 



MY Growth in divine Life. By the 

Rev. Preb. REYNOLDS. M.A. 
My SOUL. By the Rev. P, B, POWER, 

M.A. 
MY HEREAFTER. Bv the Very Rev. 

Dean BlCKERSTETH. 
MY WALK WITH GOD. By the Very 

Rev. Dean MONTGO.MERY. 



MY AIDS TO THE DIVINR LIFE. By 
the Very Rev. Dean BOYLE. 

MY SOURCES OF STRENGTH. By the 
Rev. E.E. JENKINS, M.A., Secretary 
of Wesleyan Missionary Society. 

Helps to Belief. A Series of Helpful Manuals on the Religious 
Difficulties of the Day. Edited by the Rev. Teignmouth Shore, M.A., 
Canon of Worcester. Cloth, is. each. 

creation. By Dr. H. Goodwin, the late . Miracles. By the Rev. Brownlow 

Lord Bishop of Carlisle. [ Maitland, M.A. 

THE DIVINITY OF OUR LORD. By PRAYER. By the Rev. T. Teignmouth 

the Lord Bishop of Derrv. I Shore, M.A. 

The Morality of the Old Testa- 1 The atonement. By William Connor 

MENT. By the Rev. Newman Magee, D.D., Late Archbishop of 

Smyth. D.D. York. 

Holy Land and the Bible, The. By the Rev. C. Gkikik, D.D., LL.D. 
(Edin.). Two Vols., 24s. Illustrated Edition, One Vol., 21s, 

« SB 5-93 



Selections from Cassell ^ Company's Publications. 

Lectures on Christianity and Socialism. By th Right Rev. Alfred 
Barry, D.D. Cloth, 3s. 6d. 

Life of Christ, The. By the Ven. Archdeacon Farrar, D.D., F.R.S. 
Library Edition. Two Vols. Cloth, 24s. ; morocco, 42s. Cheap 
Illustrated Edition. Cloth, 7s. 6d. ; cloth, full gilt, gilt edges, 
10s. 6d. Popular Edition, in One Vol., 8vo, cloth, 6s. ; cloth, 
gilt edges, 7s. 6d. ; Persian morocco, gilt edges, los. 6d. ; tree-calf, 15s. 

Marriage Ring, The. By William Landels, D.D. New and 
Cheaper Edition. 3s. 6d. 

Morning and Evening Prayers for Workhouses and other Institutions. 
Selected by Louisa Twining. 2s. 

Moses and Geology ; or, The Harmony of the Bible with Science. 
By the Rev. Samuel Kinns, Ph.D., F.R.A.S. Illustrated. New 
Edition on Larger and Superior Paper. 8s. 6d. 

My Comfort in Sorrow. By Hugh Macmillan, D.D. is. 

New Light on the Bible and the Holy Land. By B. T. A. Evetts, 
M.A. Illustrated. 2is. 

New Testament Commentary for English Readers, The. Edited 
by the Rt. Rev. C. J. Ellicott, D.D., Lord Bishop of Gloucester 
and Bristol. In Three Volumes. 2 is. each. Vol. I.— The Four Gospels. 
Vol. II.— The Acts, Romans, Connihians, Galatians. Vol. III. — The 
remaining Books of the New Testament. 

New Testament Commentary. Edited by Bishop Ellicott. Handy 
Volume Edition. St. Matthew, 3s. 6d. St. Mark, 3s. St. Luke, 
3s. 6d. St. John, 3s. 6d. The Acts of the Apostles, 3s. 6d. Romans, 
2S. 6d. Corinthians I. and II., 3s. Galatians, Ephesians, and Philip- 
pians, 3s. Colossians, Thessalonians, and Timothy, 3s. Titus, 
Philemon, Hebrews, and James, 3s. Peter, Jude, and John, 3s. 
The Kevelation, 3s. An Introduction to the New Testament, 3s. 6d. 

Old Testament Commentary for English Readers, The. Edited 
by the Right Rev. C. J. Ellicott, D.D., Lord Bishop of Gloucester 
and Bristol. Complete in Five Vols. 21s. each. Vol. I.— Genesis to Num- 
bers. Vol. II. — Deuteronomy to Samuel II. Vol. III. — Kings I. to 
Esther. Vol. IV.— Job to Isaiah. Vol. V. -Jeremiah to Malachi. 

Old Testament Commentary. Edited by Bishop Ellicott. Handy 
Volume Edition. Genesis, 3s. 6d. Exodus, 3s. Leviticus, 3s. 
Numbers, 2s. 6d. Deuteronomy, 2s. 6d. 

Protestantism, The History of. By the Rev. J. A. Wylib, LL.D. 
Containing upwards of 600 Original Illustrations. Three Vols. gs. each. 

Quiver Yearly Volume, The. With about 600 Original Illustrations. 
7s. 6d. 

Religion, The Dictionary of. By the Rev. W. Benham, B.D. 
Cheap Edition. los. 6d. 

St. George for England ; and other Sermons preached to Children. By 
the Rev. T. Teignmouth Shore, M.A., Canon ot Worcester. 5s. 

St. Paul, The Life and Work of. By the Ven. Archdeacon Farrar, 
D.D., F.R.S., Chaplain-in-Ordinary to the Queen. Library Edition. 
Two Vols., cloth, 24s. ; calf, 42s. Illustrated Edition, complete 
in One Volume, with about 300 Illustrations, £1 is. ; morocco, £2 2S. 
Popular Edition. One Volume, 8vo, cloth, 6s. ; cloth, gilt edges, 
7s. 6d. ; Persian morocco, los. 6d. ; tree-calf, 15s. 

Shall We Know One Another in Heaven ? By the Rt. Rev. J. C. 
RvLE, D.D., Bishop of Liverpool. Cheap Etition. Paper covers, 6d. 

Signa Christi. By the Rev. James Aitchison. 5s, 

"Sunday," Its Origin, History, and Present Obligation. By the 
Ven. Archdeacon Hessev, D.C.L. Fifth Edition. 7s. 6d. 

Twilight of Life, The. Words of Counsel and Comfort for the 
Aged. By the Rev. John Ellerton, M.A. is. 6d. 



Selections from Cassell ^ Company's Publications. 

(Biiucational Morhs atitr ^tittienta' ittanuala. 

Agricultural Text-Books, Cassell's. (The " Downton " Series.) Edited 

by John Wrightson, Professor of Ag. Iculture. Fully Illustrated, 

2s. 6d. each. Farm Crops. — By Prof. Wkightson. Soils and 
Manures.— By J. M. H. Munro, D.Sc. (London), F.I.C, F.C.S. 

Live Stock.— By Prof. Wrightson. 
Alphabet, Cassell's Pictorial. 3s. 6d. 
Arithmetics, The Modern School. By George Ricks, B.Sc. Lond. 

With Test Cards. {List on application.) 
Atlas, Cassell's Popular. Containing 24 Coloured Maps. 2s. 6d. 
Book-Keeping. By Theodore Jones. For Schools, 2s. ; cloth, 33. 

For the Million, 2S. ; cloth, 3s. Books for Jones's System, 2s. 
Chemistry, The Public School. By J. H. Anderson, M. A. 2s. 6d. 
Classical Texts for Schools, Cassell's, [A List post free on application.) 
Cookery for Schools. By Lizzie Heritage. 6d. 
Copy-Books, Cassell's Graduated. Eighteen Books. 2d. each. 
Copy-Books, The Modern School. Twelve Books. 2d. each. 
Drawing Copies, Cassell's Modern School Freehand. First Grade, 

IS. ; Second Grade, 2S. 
Drawing Copies, Cassell's " New Standard." Complete in Fourteen 

Books. 2d., 3d., and i,A. each. 
Energy and Motion. By William Paice, M.A. Illustrated, is. 6d. 
Euclid, Cassell's. Edited by Prof. Wallace, M.A. is. 
Euclid, The First Four Books of. New Edition. In paper, 6d. ; cloth, gd. 
Experimental Geometry. By Paul Bert. Illustrated, is. 6d. 
French, Cassell's Lessons in. New and Revised Edition. Parts I. 

and II., each 2s. 6d. ; complete, 4s. 6d. Key, is. 6d. 
French-English and English-French Dictionary. Entirely New 

and Enlarged Edition. 1,150 pages, 8vo, cloth, 3s. 6d. 
French Reader, Cassell's Public School. By G. S. Conrad. 2s. 6d. 
Gaudeamus. Songs for Colleges and Schools. Editedby John Farmer. 

5s. Words only, paper covers, 6d. ; cloth, gd. 
German Dictionary, Cassell's New (German-English, English- 
German). Cheap Edition. Cloth, 3s. 6d. 
Hand-and-Eye Training. By G. Ricks, B.Sc. 2 Vols., with 16 Coloured 

Plates in each Vol. Cr. 4to, 6s. each. Cards for Class Use, 5 sets, is. each. 
Historical Cartoons, Cassell's Coloured. Size 45 in. x 3? in., 2s. 

each. Mounted on canvas and varnished, with rollers, 5s. each. 
Historical Course for Schools, Cassell's. Illustrated throughout. 

I. — Stories from English History, is. II. — The Simple Outline of 

English History, is. 3d. III. — The Class History of England, 2s. 6(1 
Latin Dictionary, Cassell's New. (Latin- English and English- Latin.) 

Revised by J. R. V. Marchant, M.A., and J. F. Charles, B.A. 

Cloth, 3s. 6d. 
Latin Primer, The First. By Prof. Postgate. is. 
Latin Primer, The New. By Prof. J. P. Postgate. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d. 
Latin Prose for Lower Forms. By M. A. Bayfield, M.A. zs. 6d. 
Laundry Work (How to Teach It). By Mrs. E. Lord. 6d. 
Laws of Every-Day Life. By H. O. Arnold-Forster, M.P. is. 6d. 

Special Edition on Green Paper for Persons with Weak Eyesight. 2S. 
Little Folks' History of England. Illustrated, is. 6d. 
Making of the Home, The. By Mrs. Samuel A. Barnett. is. 6d. 
Map-Building Series, Cassell's. Outline Maps prepared by H. O. 

Arnold-Forster, M.P. Per Set of Twelve, is. 
Marlborough Books: — Arithmetic Examples, 3s. French Exercises, 

3s. 6d, French Grammar. 2s. 6d. German do. , 3s. 6d. 
Mechanics and Machine Design, Numerical Examples in Practical. 

By R. G. Blainb, M.E. New and Revised Edition. With 69 Diagrams. 

Cloth, 2s. fid. 



Selections from Cassell if Company s Publications. 

Mechanics for Young Beginners, A First Book of. By the Rev. 
J. G. Easton, M.A. 4s. 6d. 

" Model Joint" Wall Sheets, for Instruction in Manual Training. By 
S. Barter. Eight Sheets, as. 6d. each. 

Natural History Coloured Wall Sheets, Cassell's New. 18 
Subjects. Size 39 by ^i in. Mounted on rollers and varnished. 3s. each. 

Object Lessons from Nature. By Pi of. L. C. Miall, F.L.S. Fully 
Illustrated. Ne7v and Enlar°;ed Edition. Two Vols., is. 6d. each. 

Perspective, The Principles of By G. Tkobridge. Illustrated. Paper, 
IS. 6d. ; cloth, 2S. 6d. 

Physiology for Schools. By A. T. Schofield, M.D., M.R.C.S.,&c. 
Illustrated. Cloth, is. gd. ; Three Parts, paper covers, 5d. each ; or 
cloth limp, 6d. each. 

Poetry Readers, Cassell's New. Illustrated. 12 Books, id. each ; or 
complete in one Vol., cloth, is. 6d. 

Popular Educator, Cassell's NEW. With Revised Text, New Maps, 
New Coloured Plates, New Tj^pe, &c. In 8 Vols., 5s. each; or in 
Four Vols., half-morocco, 50s. the set. 

Readers, Cassell's "Higher Class." {List on application.^ 

Readers, Cassell's Readable. Illustrated. {List on application.') 

Readers for Infant Schools, Coloured. Three Books. 4d. each. 

Reader, The Citizen. By H. O. Arnold-Forster, M.P. Illustrated. 
IS. 6d. Also a Scottish Edition^ cloth, is. 6d. 

Reader, The Temperance. By Rev. J. Dennis Hird. Cr. 8vo, is. 6d. 

Readers, The *' Modern School" Geographical. {List on application.) 

Readers, The " Modern School." Illustrated. [List on application.) 

Reckoning, Howard's Anglo-American Art of. By C. Frushbr 
Howard. Paper co\'ers, is. ; cloth, as. New Edition, 5s. 

Round the Empire. By G. R. Parkin. Fully Illustrated, is. 6d. 

Science Applied to Work. By J. A. Bower, is. 

Science of Everyday Life. By J. A. Bower. Illustrated, is. 

Shade from Models, Common Objects, and Casts of Ornament, 
How to. By W. E. Sparkes. With 25 Plates by the Author. 3s. 

Shakspere's Plays for School Use. 5 Books. Illustrated. 6d. each. 

Spelling, A Complete Manual of. By J. D. Morell, LL.D. is. 

Technical Manuals, Cassell's. Illustrated throughout:— 

Handrailing and Staircasing, 3s. 6d.— Bricklayers, Drawing for, 3s.— 
Building Construction, as. — Cabinet-Makers, Drawing for, 3s. — 
Carpenters and Joiners. Drawing for, 3s. 6d.— Gothic Stonework, 3s.— 
Linear Drawing and Practical Geometry, as.— Linear Drawing and 
Projection.— The Two Vols, in One, 3s. ed.— Machinists and Engineers, 
Drawing for, 4s. 6d.— Metal-Plate Workers, Drawing for, 3s.— Model 
Drawing, 3s.— Orthographical and Isometrical Projection, as.— Practical 
Perspective, 3s.— Stonemasons, Drawing for, 3s.— Applied Mechanics, 
by Sir R. S. Ball, LL.D., as.- Systematic Drawing and Shading, as. 

Technical Educator, Cassell's. Revised Edition. Four Vols. 5s. each. 

Technology, Manuals of. Edited by Prof. Ayrton, F.R.S., and 
Richard Wormell, D.Sc, M.A. Illustrated throughout :— 
The Dyeing of Textile Fabrics, by Prof. Hummel, 5s.— Watch and 
Clock Making, by D. Glasgow, Vice-President of the British Horo- 
logical Institute, 4s. 6d.— Steel and Iron, by Prof. W. H. Greenwood 
F.C.S., M.I.C.E., &c., 5s.— Spinning Woollen and Worsted, by W. s' 
B. McLaren, M. P., 4s. 6d.— Design in Textile Fabrics, by T. R. Ashen- 
hurst, 4S. 6d.— Practical Mechanics, by Prof. Perry, M.E., 3s. 6d — 
Cutting Tools Worked by Hand and Machine, by Prof. Smith, 3s. 6d. 

Things New and Old ; or, Stories from English History. By 

H. O. Arnold-Forster, M.P. Fully Illustrated, and stronglv bound 

in Cloth. Standards I. & II., gd. each; Standard III., xs. : 

Standard IV., is. 3d. ; Standards V., VI., & VII., is. 6d. each. 

This World of Ours. By H. O. Arnold-Forster, M.P. Illusd 3s. 6d. 



Selections from Cassell ^ Company's Publications. 



gooks for ^0UIt0 ^£OplE. 

"Little Folks " Half-Yearly Volume. Containing 432 4to pages, with 
about 200 Illustrations, and Pictures in Colour. Boards, 3s. 6d. ; cloth, 5s. 

Bc-Peep. A Book for the Little Ones. With Original Stories and Verses. 
Illustrated throughout. Yearly Volume. Boards, 2s.6d. ; cloth, 3s. 6d. 

Bashful Fifteen. By L. T. Meade. Illustrated. 3s. 6d. 

T he Peep of Day. Cassell's Ilhistrated Editien. 2s. 6d. 

Maggie Steele's Diary. By E. A. Dillwyn. zs. 6d. 

A Bundle of Tales. By Maggie Browne (Author of " Wanted— a 
King," &c.), Sam Browne, and Aunt Ethel. 3s. 6d. 

Fairy Tales in other Lands. By Julia Goddard. Illustrated. 3s. 6d. 

Pleasant Work for Busy Fingers. By Maggie Browne. Illustrated. 5s. 

Born a King. By Frances and Mary Arnold-Forster. (The Life of 
Alfonso XIII., the Boy King of Spain.) Illustrated, is. 

Cassell's Pictorial Scrap Book. In Si.v Sectional Vols., paper boards, 
3s. 6d. each. 

Schoolroom and Home Theatricals. By Arthur Waugh. Illus- 
trated. 2s. 6d. 

Magic at Home. By Prof. Hoffman. Illustrated. Cloth gilt, 5s. 

Little Mother Bunch. By Mrs. Molesworth. Illustrated, Cloth, 3s. 6d. 

I ictures of School Life and Boyhood. Selected from the best Authors. 
Edited by Percy Fitzgerald, M.A. 2s. 6d. 

Heroes of Every-day Life. By Laura Lane. With about 20 Full- 
page Illustrations. Cloth. 2S. 6d. 

Books for Young People. Illustrated. Cloth gilt, 5s. each. 
The Champion of Odin; or. 
Viking Life in the Days of 
Old. By J. Fred. Hodgetts. 

Under Bayard's Banner. By Henry Frith. 

Books for Young People. Illustrated. 3s. 6d. each. 

*Polly : A New-Fashioned GirL By 
L. T. .Meade. 



Bound by a Spell; or. The Hunted 
■Witch of the Forest. By the 
Hon. Mrs. Greene. 



* X'he White House at Inch Gow. 

By Mrs. Pitt. 
»A Sweet Girl Graduate. By L. T. 

Meade. 
*The King's Command: A Story 
for Girls. By Maggie Symington. 
Lost in Samoa, a Tale of Adven- 
ture in the Navigator Islands. By 
Edward S. EUis. 
Tad; or, " Getting Even " with 
Him. By Edward S. EUis. 
*The Palace Beautifva. By L. T. 
Meade. 

* Alio procurable in stiperior binding, 5b. eaUi. 
Crown 8vo Library. Cheap Editions. Gilt edges, 2s. 6d. each. 



"Follow My Leader," By Talbot 

Barnes Reed. 
•The Cost of a Mistake. By Sarah 

Pitt. 
•a World of Girla: The Story of 

a School. By L T. Meade. 
Lost among White Africans. By 

David Ker. 
For Fortune and Glory : A Story of 

the Soudan War. By Lewis 

Hough. 



Kambles Round London. By C. 

L. Mat^aux. Illustrated. 
Around and About Old England. 

By C. L. Mat^aux. Illustrated. 
Paws and Claws. By one of the 

Authors of " Poems written for a 

Child." Illustrated. 
Decisive Events in History. 

Bv I'homas Archer. With Original 

Illustrations. 
The True Bobinson Crusoes. 

Cloth gilt 
Seeps Abroad for Folks at Home. 

Utostiatsd tiiroBghout 



Wild Adventures in Wild Places. 

By T)c. Gordon Stabks. R.N. lUus- 

trated. 
Modern Explorers. By Thomas 

Frost. Illustraied. Neiv and Cfuaper 

Eaition. 
Early Explorers. By Thnmas Frost. 
Home Chat with our Young Folks. 

Illustrated throughout. 
Jimgle, Peak, tuia Plain. lUustrated 

throughout. 
The England of Shakespeare. By 

E. Goadby. With Full-page Illus- 



Selections from Cassell ^ Company s Publications. 



The "Cross and Crown" Series 
Freedom's Sword : A Story of the 

Days of Wallace and Bruce. 

By Annie S. Swan. 
Strong to Suffer: A Story of 

the Jews. By E. Wynne. 
Heroes of the I idian Empire; 

or. Stories ot Valo !r and 

Victory. By Ernest Foster. 
In Letters of Flame : A Story 

of the Waldenses. By C. L. 

Mat^aux. 



Illustrated. 



23. 6d. each. 
Triumph. 



By 



Through Trial to 

Madeline B. Hunt. 
By Fire and Sword: A Storv of 

the Huguenots. By Tliomas 

Archer. 
Adam Hepburn's Vow: A Tale of 

Kirk and Covenant, By Annie 

S. Swan. 
No. XIII.; or. The Story of the 

Lost Vestal. A Tale of Early 

Christian Days. By Emma Marshall. 

Each Book containing 208 pages, with 



"Golden Mottoes" Series, The 

Four full-page Original Illustrations. Crown 8vo, cloth gilt, 2S. each, 
the 



By Sarah 
By Helen 



Honovir is my Guide." By Jeanie 

Heriiig (Mrs. Adams-Acton). 
Aim at a Sure End." By Emily 

Searchfield. 
He Conquers who Endures." By 

the Author of "May Cunningham's 

Trial," &c. 



"Nil Desperandum." By 
Rev. F. Langbridge, M.A. 

"Bear and Forbear.' 

Pitt. 
"Foremost if I Can.' 
Atteridge. 

Cassell's Picture Story Books. Each containing about Sixty Pages of 
Pictures and Stories, &c. 6d. each. 
Little Talks. Daisy's Story Book. 

Bright Stars. Dot's Story Book. 

Nursery Toys. A Nest of Stories. 
Pet's Posy. Good-Night Stories. 

Chats for Small Chatterers. 



Tiny Tales. 



Auntie's Stories. 
Birdie's Story Book. 
Little Chimes. 
A Sheaf of Tales. 
Dewdrop Stories. 



Cassell's Sixpenny Story Books. All Illustrated, and containing 

Interesting Stories by well-known writers. 



The Smuggler's Cave. 
Little Lizzie. 

Little Bird, Life and Adven- 
tures of 
Luke Barnicott. 



The Boat Club. 

LitUe Piokles. 

The Elc heater College Boys. 

My First Cruise. 

The Little Peacemaker* 



The Delft J ug. 

Cassell's Shilling Story Books. All Illustrated, and containing Interest- 
ing Stories. 



Bunty and the Boys. 
The Heir of Elmaale. 
The Mystery at Shoncliff 

School. 
Claimed at Last, and Key's 

Reward. 
Thorns and Tangles. 
The Cuckoo in the Robin's Nest. 
John's Mistake. 
The History of Five Little 

Pitchers. 
Diamonds in the Sand. 

Illustrated Books for the Little Ones. Containing interesting Stories. 
All Illustrated, is. each ; cloth gilt, is. 6d. 



Surly Bob. 
The Giant's Cradle. 
Shag and Doll. 
Aunt Lucia's Locket. 
The Magic Mirror. 
The Cost of Revenge. 
Clever Frank. 
Among the Redskins, 
The Ferryman of BriU. 
Harry MaxwelL 
A Banished Monarch. 
Seventeen Cats. 



Firelight Stories. 
Sunlight and Shade. 
Rub-a-Dub Tales. 
Fine Feathers and Fluffy Fur. 
Scrambles and Scrapes. 
Tittle Tattle Tales. 
Up and Down the Garden. 
All Sorts of Adventures. 
Our Sunday Stories. 
Our Holiday Hours. 
Albums for Children. 3s. 6d. each. 

The Album for Home, Sohool, ( Picture Album of All Sorts 
ana Pla:?-. Containing Stories by | Full-page lUustrations. 

The Chlt-Chat AJbum. lUustratod 



Indoors and Out. 

Some Farm Friends. 

Wandering Ways. 

Dumb Friends. 

Those Golden Sands. 

Little Mothers & their Children. 

Our Pretty Pets. 

Our Sohoolday Hours. 

Creatures Tame. 

Creatures Wild. 



With 



Popular Authors. Illustrated. 
My Own Album of Animals. 



With Fnll-page Illustrations. 



throughout 



Selections from Cassell # Company s Publications* 



"Wanted— a King " Senes. Illustrated. 3s. 6d. each. 
Great Orandmanima. By Georgina M. Synge, 
Robi >'b Ride. By Ellinor Davenport Adams. 

Wanted-aKms; ; or. How Merie se the Nursery Rbymes to BlglitB. 
By Maggie Browne. With Original Designs by Harry Fumiss. 
The World's Workers. A Series of New and Original Volumes. 
With Portraits printed on a tint as Frontispiece, is. each. 



Charles Haddon Spurgeon. By 
G. HoLDEN Pike. 

Dr. Arnold of Rugby. By Rose 
E. Selfe. 

The Earl of Shaftesbury. By 
Henry Frith. 

Sarah Robinson, Agnes Wes- 
ton, and Mrs. Meredith. By 

E. M. Tomkinson. 

Thomas A. Edison and Samuel 

F. B. Morse. By Dr. Denslow 
and J. Marsh Parker. 

Mrs. Somerville and Mary Car- 
penter. By Phjllis Browne. 

General Gordon. By the Rev. 
S. A. Swaine. 

Charles Dickens. By his Eldest 
Daughter. 

Sir Titus Salt and George 
Moore. By J. Burnley. 

David Livingstone. 



Florence Nightingale, Catherine 
Marsh, Frances Ridley Haver- 
gal, Mrs. Ranyard ("L. N. R."). 
By Lizzie Alldridge. 

Dr. Guthrie, Father Mathew, 
Elihu Biirritt, George Livesey. 
Brjohn W. Kirton, LL.D. 

Sir Henry HavelocSi and CoUn 
CampbeU Lord Clyde. By E. C. 
Phillips. 

Abraham Lincoln. By Ernest Foster. 

George MuUer and Andrew Reed. 
By E. R. Pitman. 

Richard Cobden. By R. Cowing. 

Benjamin Franklin. By E. M. 
Tomkinson. 

Handel. By Eliza Clarke. [Swaine. 

Turner the Artist. By the Rev. S. A. 

George and Robert Stephenson. 
By C. L. Mat^aux. 

By Robert Smiles. 



••• The above Works (exUiuUng RICHARD COBDEN anrf CHARLES HADDON 
Spurgeon) can also bt had Three in One Vol., doth, gilt edges, y. 

Library of Wonders. Illustrated Gift-books for Boys. Paper, is.; 
cloth, IS. 6d. 

Wonderful Adventures. I Wonders of Bodily Strength 

Wonaeriul Escapes. | and Skill. 

Cassell's Eighteenpenny Story Books. Illustrated. 

"' "' Faith's Father. 



Wee Willie Winkie. 

XTps ana Downs of a Donkey's 

Life. 
Three Wee Ulster Lassies. 
Up the Ladder. 

Dick's Hero; and other Stories. 
The Chip Boy. 
Raggles, Baggies, and the 

imperor. 
Roses from Thorns. 
Gift Books for Young People. 

Original Illustrations in each. 
The Boy Hunters of Kentucky. 

By Edward S. Ellis. 
Red Feather: a Taie of the 

American Frontier. By 

Edward S. EUis. 
Seeking a City. 
Rhoda's Reward; or. "If 

Wishes were Horses." 
Jack Marston's Anchor. 
Frank's Life-Battle; or. The 

Three Friends. 
Fritters. By Sarah Pitt. 
The Two Hardcastles. By Made- 
line Bonavia Hunt. 



Cassell's Two-Shilling Story Books. Illustrated, 



Land and Sea. 
The Young Berringtona. 
J elf and Leff. 
Tom Morris's Error. 
Wortii more than Gold. 
"Through Flood— Through Fire;" 

and other Stories. 
The Girl with the Golden Looks. 
Stones of the Olden Time. 

By Popular Authors. With Four 
Cloth gilt, IS. 6d. each. 

Major Monk's Motto. By the Rev. 

r. Langbridge. 
Trixy. By Maggie Symington. 
Rags and Rainbows: A Story of 

Thanksgiving. 
Uncle William's Charges; or, The 

Broken Trust. 
Pretty Pink's Purpose; or, The 

Little Street Merchants. 
Tim Thomson's TriaL By George 

Weatherly. 
Ursula's StumbUng-Block. By Julia 

Goddard. 
Ruth's Life-Work. By the Rev. 

Joseph Johnson. 



Stories of the Tower. 
Mr. Burke's Nieces. 
May Cunningham's Trial. 
Tbe Top of tne Ladder : How to 

Reaoli it. 
LitUe Flotsam. 
Madge and Her Friends. 
The children of the Court. 
Maid Maijory. 
Peggy, and other Tales. 



The Four Cats of the Tippertons. 

Marion's Two Homes. 

Little Folks' Sunday Book. 

Two Fourpenny Bits. 

Poor Nelly. 

Tom Heriot. 

Through Peril to Forton*. 

Aunt Tabitha's Waifs. 

In Mischief Again. 



Selections from Cassell ^ Company's Publications. 



Bound in 



For Queen aaid King. 
Esther Weac. 
Three Homes. 
"Workii^g to Win. 
Perils Afloat and Brigands 
Ashore. 



Cheap Editions of Popular Volumes for Young People. 
cloth, gilt edees, 2S. 6d. each. 
In Quest of Gold; or. Under 

the Whang a Falls. 
On Board the Esmeralda; or, 

Martin Lei h'e bog. 
The Romance of Invention : 

Vignettes from the Annals 

of Indusiry and Science. 

The " Deerfoot " Series. By Edward S. Ellis. With Four full-page 
Illustrations in each Book. Cloth, bevelled boards, 2s. 6d. each. 
The Hunters of the Ozark. | The Camp in the Mountains, 
ahe Last War Trail. 

The "Log Cabin" Series. By Edward S. Ellis. With Four Full- 
page Illustrations in each. Crown 8vo, cloth, as. 6d. each. 

The Lost Trail. | Camp-Fire and Wigwam. 

Footprints in the Forest. 



The "Great River" Series. By Edward S. Ellis. Illustrated. 
Crown ovo, cloth, bevelled boards, 2S. 6d. each. 

Down the Mississippi. J Lost in the Wilds. 

Up the Tapajos; or, Aaven tares in Brazil. 



The " Boy Pioneer " Series. By Edward S, 
page Illustrations in each Book, 



Ned in the Woods. A Tale of 
E*rly Day« iu the WesL 
Ned in the Block House. 



Ellis. With Four Full- 
Crown 8vo, cloth, 28. 6d. each. 

A Tale of Indian 



Ned on the Biver 
River Warfare. 
Story of Pioneer Life in Kftntucky. 



The "World in Pictures." Illustrated throughout as. 6d. each. 

1 he Eastern Wondsrland (Japan). 
OUmpses of South Amenoa. 
Hound Ainoa. 

The Land of lemplsB (India). 
The iBies of the Faoiflo. 



A Ramble Hound France. 
All the Russias. 
Chats about Q-ermany. 
The Land of the Pyramids 
(Egypt). 



Peeps into China. 



Half-Crown Story Books. 
Little Hinges. 
Margaret's Snemy. 
Pen's Perplexities. 
Notable Shipwrecks. 
Golden Days. 
Wonders of Common Things. 

Books for the Little Ones. 

Rhjrmes for the Young Folk. 
By William Allingham. Beautifully 
IllustratecL 3s. 6d. 

The History Scrap Book. With 
nearly i.ooo Engravings. Cloth' 
7s. 6d- 



Truth will Out. 

Soldier and Patriot (Oeerffe Wasb- 

mgton). 
The Young Man In the Battle of 

Life. By the Rev. Or. Landels. 
At the South Pole. 



My Diary. With i2 Coloured Plates 

and 366 Woodcuts. Is. 
The Sunday Scrap Book. With 

Several Hundred Illustrations. Paper 

boards, 3s. 6d. ; cloth, gUt edges, 6s. 
The Old Fairy Tales. With Original 

Illustrations. Boards, Is.: cloth, 

Is.od. 



•^ 



Cassell & Company's Complete Catalogue will be sent post 

free on application to 



CASSELL & COMPANY, Ltmithd, Luxate Hill, Londotx. 



BOSTON PUBLIC LIBRARY 



3 9999 05493 413 6 



Boston Public Library 
Central Library, Copley Square 

Division of 
Reference and Research Services 



The Date Due Card in the pocket indi- 
cates the date on or before which this 
book should be returned to the Library. 

Please do not remove cards from this 
pocket. 



■^■>'^:''¥'^ 






»*-*^v 






\.C^x''^ 



