
- ^^ .^' # 
j/il /^piy 



llSii^ 



<'IP 






LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 




Q0Qm57DS4fl 



f 







LIBRARY OF uuNGRESS. 
CV^^^ 



Shelf -_-..yi.5l'i. 

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA. 



THE 



COLUMBIAN COOK BOOK 



CONTAINING 



Reliable -E^ule^ for pLAif^ and 

pANCY f OOKINQ. 



CAREFULLY TESTED AND ARRANGED. 



By ,/ 



MRS, JANE PUTNAM CHAUVEN. 



i 



ST. PAUL. MINNESOTA: 

J. W. Cunningham & Co.. Printers. 

1892. 






^t^ 



\'o 



(.^^^ 



Copyrighted by 

JANE PUTNAM CHAUVEN. 

1892. 



PKEFACE. 




^HE rules given in this Cook Book have been tested, 
and if carefully followed, I am confident will 
give satisfaction. All I need say as an introduction to 
this little work, is that it was compiled at the earnest 
solicitation of many friends, who were kind enough to 
think that after an experience of more than a score of 
years I might prepare a work that would prove useful 
to many persons interested in the art of cooking, espec- 
ially to young housekeepers. 

JANE PUTNAM CHAUVEN. 



A copv of thiis book will be sent, 
postage paid, to any address on re = 
ceipt of 50 cents Address 

IS/Irs. Jane Piatnan:i Cbataven, 

898 Iglebart Street, 

St. Patil, Vlinn. 



BREAD, ROLLS, RUSKS AND BISCUITS. 

Good Bread. 

The first requisite for good bread is, good flour, second 
good yeast; the third, endurance. Fleischmann's com- 
pressed yeast is perfectly reliable. Bread should be mixed 
up warm ; be careful not to scald the yeast ; good kneading 
is very necessary. The heat of the oven should be mod- 
erate when the bread is put to bake ; an ordinary sized 
loaf of bread with the oven at proper temperature will 
bake in an hour, some test the oven heat by putting in a 
little flour, if it browns in five minutes it is ready for 
bread. There are several methods of testing bread to 
know when it is done ; a loaf of bread when done will not 
burn the hand, if it does the bread should be replaced in 
the oven. After baking, bread should be taken from th& 
oven and placed where it will be exposed to the air. 

Bread. — No. 1. 

Pour gradually one quart boiling water on one pint 
flour, stir to keep smooth, when cool, add one cake Fleisch- 
mann's compressed yeast dissolved in one-half cup water, 
let stand until very light, then add flour to make a stiff 
sponge, with one teaspoon salt; as soon as sponge rises it 
is ready for kneading, and after being worked until it 
does not stick to the hands it is of proper consistency. 



6 BREAD. 

and may be divided into loaves, put in pans to rise for 

baking. 

Bi'ead io he made up in day time. 

Bread.— No. 2. 
Put three pints hot water into bread bowl with large 
tablespoon lard, two teaspoons salt, when cool stir in suf- 
ficient flour to make stiff batter, beat smoothly, then add 
one cake of Fleischmann's compressed yeast dissolved in 
one-half cup warm water, set to rise, when light work in 
enough flour to form a dough, then turn out upon a floured 
bread board and knead twenty minutes to one-half hour, 
return to the greased bread bowl and let rise till very 
light, then knead again, divide in loaves, and put in pans 
to rise for baking, when risen to top of pans, bake from 
forty-five to sixty minutes. 

Bread. — No. 3. 

Dissolve one teaspoon salt, one tablespoon of lard or 
butter, mixed in one quart hot water, when cool add one 
cake Fleischmann's compressed yeast dissolved in one cup 
warm water, sift three and one-half quarts flour in a pan 
(you may not need it quite all) then stir some of the 
flour into the water until a stiff batter and beat until 
smooth, now take the spoon out and with the hands 
work in sufficient flour to form a dough, turn out upon a 
floured bread board and knead twenty minutes, one-half 
hour is better as it will make the bread closer grained, 
return to the greased bread bowl to rise over night; in 
the morning knead one-half hour, divide into loaves, put 
in pans to rise for baking; when sufficiently light bake 
from forty-five to sixty minutes, according to size of loaves. 

My Bread, J. P. C. 

In following this rule you can use milk or half milk 
;and water, all are good. 



BREAD. i 

Bread. — No. 4, 

Early in the morning take one cake Fleischmann's com- 
pressed yeast dissolved in one pint warm water, stir in 
flour sufficient to make stiff batter, cover and set near a 
fire to rise, when light take another pint of warm water 
and teaspoon salt, pour this on the sponge, and sift into 
the bowl six cups flour or as much as will be required to 
make a dough that may be worked with the hand, knead 
the dough twenty minutes, divide in loaves, put in pans 
to rise for baking, cover to keep warm, when risen suf- 
ficiently, bake. 

Potato Bread. — No. 1. 

Boil one pint sliced potatoes, in three pints water, mash, 
pour over the potatoes the water in which they were 
boiled, stir in one large tablespoon lard, four tablespoons 
flour, two teaspoons salt, when cool enough add one cake 
Fleischmann's compressed yeast dissolved in one-half cup 
water then work in flour enough to make a stiff dough, 
turn out upon a floured bread board and knead one-half 
hour, let rise over night; in the morning knead one-half 
hour, divide in loaves, rise and bake. 

Poiaio Bread.— No. 2. 

Pare and boil two potatoes, mash fine, mix in one tea- 
spoon salt, one tablespoon butter, two pints warm water, 
when cool add one cake Fleischmann's yeast dissolved in 
three tablespoons water and flour enough to make a batter, 
let rise, when light make up into stiff dough, knead well 
and let stand until very light, then knead again, divide in 
loaves, put in pans. When raised enough bake. Make 
up this bread in day time. 



8 BREAD, YEAST. 

Salt-Rising Bread. 

Day before baking, about noon, pour one cup of boil- 
ing milk over three-fourths cup corn meal, and beat 
smoothly ; set in a warm place. Next morning, early, take 
a pitcher and put in one cup flour, a scant half -teaspoon 
salt, teaspoon sugar, then pour in the corn meal and milk 
and sufficient warm water to make a batter, beat smoothly 
and leave the spoon in the pitcher; cover with folded cloth; 
set pitcher in deep vessel of warm w^ater, sufficient to come 
near top of pitcher. Keep water same temperature. When 
light, sift some flour in bread bowl, work in a little lard, 
add half teaspoon salt, pour in the sponge with one pint 
warm water ; mix into a dough little harder than for bis- 
cuits, knead well and divide into two loaves; put in pans 
to rise, when light brush a little melted lard over each 
loaf and bake from fifty to sixty minutes. When this 
bread is taken from the oven it must not be covered; set 
the loaves where the air will get around them a little. 
When cold wrap them in a cloth slightly dampened; put 
in tin box or stone jar. 

Yeasi. 

Half-pint yellow corn, roasted to a light brown; one 
pint hops, loose measure; five potatoes, medium size; three 
tablespoons salt, tv/o-thirds cap sugar. Put the corn, hops 
and potatoes in a kettle with two quarts water, boil thor- 
oughly and strain through a colander, then add the salt and 
sugar; when cool add one cake Fleischmann's yeast, dis- 
solved in water. 

Good Yeast 

Two large handfuls of loose hops, three quarts water, 
six medium-sized potatoes, pared, boiled and mashed; half 
teacup salt, two tablespoons sugar, two tablespoons flour, 



BREAD, ROLLS. 9 

mixed in little cold water; two cakes Fleischinann's com- 
pressed yeast, dissolved in a little warm water. 

Graham Bread. — No. 1. 

Take two quarts white flour, dissolve two cakes Fleisch- 
mann's compressed yeast in two and one-half pints water, 
one cup brown sugar, one level tablespoon salt. Let rise 
over night. In the morning work in Graham flour to 
make stiff dough, let rise then mold in loaves, put in well 
greased pans to rise for baking. 

Graham Bread. — No. 2. 

Two quarts Graham flour, one-half cap molasses, two 
teaspoons vinegar, one teaspoon soda dissolved in water, 
and w^et the whole with cold water, just enough for a stiff 
batter. Bake one hour in moderate oven and you will 
have a delicious loaf of bread. 

Our Grand Ma's Breakfast Rolls. 

Take three cups of warm milk, three-fourths cup lard 
and butter mixed, one cake Fleischmann's compressed yeast 
dissolved in half cup warm water, teaspoon salt, one Qgg 
beaten, mix with flour enough to make a stiff dough, let 
this rise over night ; in the morning roll out in a sheet the 
same as for biscuits, cut with with cake cutter, prick with 
fork, put on pans slightly greased, and bake twenty or 
twenty-five minutes. 

Tea Rolls.— No. 1. 

In morning beat two eggs, have almost boiling one pint 
new milk, pour it on the eggs and mix well, add one table- 
spoon butter and one of lard, when cool stir in one cake 
Fleischmann's compressed yeast dissolved in half cup warm 
water, w^ork in flour to make stiff dough, which may take 



10 ROLLS. 

two quarts. Let rise till afternoon then make into rolls, 
put in greased pans, giving time to rise, and bake in time 
for tea. These are delicious. 

Tea Rolls. —No. 2. 

Put one pint milk to boil with two tablespoons butter. 
As soon as milk commences to boil stir in flour as though 
making mush, beating all the time to keep smooth; when 
a thick batter remove from fire, stir in one pint cold milk, 
let cool, then add one cake Fleischmann's compressed yeast, 
dissolved in a little warm water, one teaspoon salt; work 
in flour to form a dough; knead on floured bread board 
until it ceases to stick to the hand. Let raise till after- 
noon, then roll out half-inch thick, lift from the board 
and let shrink all that it will, cut with a round or oval 
cutter, put a bit of softened butter on one edge and fold 
over, letting the edges come together. Pat them close to- 
gether in the pan, cover well with several thicknesses of 
cloth, and let them rise more than double their bulk, then 
bake in oven hot enough to brown instantly, and thus 
check any further rising in the oven. As soon as they 
come from the oven, put a teaspoon butter in a cloth, twist 
the edges together and rub the cloth over the hot rolls; 
the butter will melt through the cloth and give a gloss to 

the rolls. 

Tea Rolls.— No. 3. 

Boil one pint new milk with a piece of butter the size 
of an Qgg', then stir, ivhile hot, in flour to make a batter, 
and when about milk warm put in one cake of Fleisch- 
mann's yeast dissolved in half cup water; let rise, and 
when light mix in suflicient flour to make a soft dough. 
Let stand till very light, then roll out in a sheet half-inch 
thick, cut in narrow strips, let rise and bake. These are 
very light and nice. 



RUSK, BISCUIT. . 11 

Rusks. — No. 1. 

Dissolve two cakes Fleischmann's compressed yeast in 
three cups of milk that has been scalded and cooled; two 
tablespoons butter, and one of lard, one teaspoon salt, one 
and three-fourth cups sugar, two eggs ; mix with sufficient 
flour to make dough, not too stiff; set in warm place to 
rise over night. In the morning knead, and make out in 
rusk, put in greased pans to rise, when light bake from 
twenty-five to thirty-five minutes. 

Louise's Rusk. — No. 2. 

One large coffee-cup warm milk, half cup lard, one tea- 
spoon salt, three well-beaten eggs, one small cup sugar, 
two cakes Fleischmann's compressed yeast, dissolved in 
two or three tablespoons water. Use flour enough to make 
smooth dough; stand until very light, then knead it in 
the form of biscuits, put them in greased tins and let them 
rise; prick the top of each one when light enough; bake 
in moderate oven. 

Siveet Bread. 

One quart new milk, half cup butter, one tablespoon 
lard, teaspoon salt, two cups sugar, one nutmeg. Dis- 
solve two cakes Fleischmann's compressed yeast in half 
cup warm water; mix with flour to make dough as for 
bread ; rise over night. In the morning knead a few min- 
utes, then make out in any shape desired, round or long 
loaves, but have them small ; when light, bake. 

Bedten Biscuit. 

One quart flour, one teaspoon salt, one tablespoon each 
of butter and lard, one Qgg,\ mix with sweet milk; beat 
for half hour; cut out, prick with fork and bake in hot 
ven. 



12 BISCUIT. 

Milk Biscuit. 

One quart flour, one tablespoon lard, one teaspoon salt, 
enough new milk to make a stiff dough; work well; beat 
with a rolling pin half hour; make in biscuit and bake 
quickly. 

Cold Water Biscuit 

Three pints flour, two tablespoons butter, teaspoon salt, 
mix with cold water; beat half an hour; roll out, prick 
with fork and bake in hot oven. 

Aunt Harriet's Cream Biscuit. 

One quart flour, two heaping teaspoons Snow Flake 
baking powder, two tablespoons butter, one pint thick 
sweet cream, half teaspoon salt. The dough should be 
very soft; roll thin, prick with a fork and bake quickly. 

Eddies Biscuit. 

One quart flour, two heaping teaspoons Snow Flake 
baking powder, two tablespoons butter and one of lard, 
half teaspoon salt, enough water to make a soft dough, 
roll thin and bake quickly for about ten minutes. 

Biscuit, 

One quart flour, two heaping teaspoons Snow Flake 
baking powder, one tablespoon butter, one of lard, half 
teaspoon salt, one pint water or sweet milk, handle as 
little as possible, roll thin, prick with a fork, and bake 
quickly. If wished plainer, use one tablespoon shorten- 
ing. 

Whipped Biscuit. 

Two eggs, half pint milk, one and half cups flour, half 
teaspoon salt, one tablespoon soft butter, one teaspoon 
Snow Flake baking powder. Beat the eggs until light 



BISCUIT, WAFERS, SHORT CAKE. 13 

and add them to the milk, put butter, salt and baking 
powder into the flour and with an egg beater whip the 
whole until well mixed, then add milk and eggs, still 
mixing with the egg beater. Turn into gem pans and 
bake in quick oven twenty minutes. 

Spoon Biscuit. 

One quart sour milk or butter milk, one teaspoon soda, 
a little salt, two tablespoons butter or sweet melted lard, 
and flour enough for a stiff batter, drop in a hot gem pan 
and bake in a quick oven. 

Wafers. — No. 1. 

Four cups flour, two tablespoons butter, half teaspoon 
salt, mix with sweet milk into stiff dough, roll out as thin as 
writing paper. Sprinkle flour over the baking pan, lay 
them in carefully and bake quickly. 

Wafers. — No. 2. 

Rub a teaspoon of butter into a pint of sifted flour, add 
two pinches salt, and with the white of an egg and a little 
warm milk mix into a smooth paste. Beat half hour with 
Tolling pin, form into little round balls ( size of a pigeon's 
^gg) and roll to the size of a saucer, sprinkle on the pans 
a little flour, and bake with care. These may be made 
of oatmeal. 



STRAWBERRY SHORT CAKE. 



Strawberry Short Cake. 

Make a crust with one tablespoon lard and two of but- 
ter; mix as for biscuits; roll in two sheets, spread the 
under one with butter, place the other on top, and bake. 
When baked separate layers and place mashed, and sweet- 



14 SHOKT CAKE, PUFFS, MUFFINS. 

eued, fruit between and on top ; or the crust can be baked 
in one piece and split and buttered after baking. Peach, 
orange and rhubarb shortcakes are very nice. Serve 
with cream. 

Sweet Short Cake. 

Beat a lump of butter, size of an egg, to a cream, add 
one cup sugar, two eggs, whites and yolks beaten separ- 
ately; one cup sweet milk, and flour enough to make a& 
stiff as cake. Bake in two jelly tins and spread mashed 
sweetened strawberries between layers, and on top whole 
berries with sugar sprinkled over them. Serve with 
mashed berries sweetened. 



PUFFS, MUFFINS AND WAFFLES. 



Graham Puffs. 

Beat one Qgg, then add one pint milk, one pint Graham 
flour, and a pinch of salt, one teaspoon Snow Flake baking 
powder, one tablespoon sugar. Drop in hot greased gem 
pans, and bake in hot oven. 

Graham Muffins. 

Three cups sour milk, half cup molasses, three small 
teaspoons soda, little salt; mix in one quart Graham 
flour, and bake in muffin rings. 

Corn Muffins. 

One cup corn meal, half cup flour, one tablespoon sugar, 
one and a half teaspoons Snow Flake baking powder, one 
beaten Qgg, one and a half cups sweet milk, a little salt. 
Bake in muffin rings. 



MUFFINS, WAFFLES. 15 

Wheat Muffins. 

Three eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately; one 
pint sweet milk, one tablespoon melted butter, two tea- 
spoons Snow Flake baking powder, flour enough to stifiPen. 

Raised Muffins. 

Mix one pint milk that has been scalded and cooled, 
half teaspoon salt, one cake Fleischmann's compressed 
yeast, dissolved in a little water, flour enough to make 
stiff batter. Raise over night; in the morning pour in 
mufiin rings, half full and bake. 

Buitermilk Muffins. 

Beat two eggs very light, mix with them one pint but- 
termilk, one tablespoon each of melted butter and lard, 
one teaspoon salt, same of soda, one quart flour ; beat well 
together. Have the mufiin moulds heated, grease well, 
fill the moulds half full and bake. 

Crumpets. 

Melt one small tablespoon lard, add to it one egg, one 
and a half cups milk; beat well; add half teaspoon salt, 
one teaspoon sugar, one and a half teaspoons Snow 
Flake baking powder, sifted with two and a half cups of 
flour. Bake in mufiin rings in hot oven, at once, for fif- 
teen or twenty minutes. This makes six crumpets. 

Spanish Buns. 

One pint milk, two eggs, two tablespoons butter, two of 
sugar, half teaspoon salt, two and half teaspoons Snow 
Flake baking powder; stir in flour until it just drops 
from the spoon. Beat until smooth. Bake in gem pans 
or patty pans. J. P. C. 



16 WAFFLES, BUCKWHEAT CAKES. 

Waffles. ( Very fine. ) 

One quart milk, two teaspoons Snow Flake baking 
powder mixed in flour, enough to make rather a thin bat- 
ter; one cup melted butter, six eggs beaten separately 
and whites added last; salt. Bake at once. 

Waffles. 

One quart sour milk, four tablespoons melted butter 
four eggs, two teaspoons soda well dissolved in the milk; 
one quart flour, a little salt. -Beat well and bake. 

Breakfast Waffles. 

Take three pints of milk, one tablespoon butter, put to- 
gether in a pan on the stove until the butter melts, add 
four well-beaten eggs, one teaspoon salt, one cake of 
Fleischmann's compressed yeast dissolved in two table- 
spoons warm water, and three pints flour. Let rise over 
night. In the moruing, stir in one level teaspoon soda 
dissolved in a little warm water. If waflle batter is too 
thick, thin a little. If liked, grate in little nutmeg, don't 
use sugar, it has a tendency to make waflle batter heavy. 



BATTER CAKES, f HITTERS, CORN MEAL 

AND MUSH. 



Buckwheat Cakes. 

Make a smooth thin batter of buckwheat and warm 
water. For a quart of water allow teaspoon salt, half cake 
Fleischmann's compressed yeast dissolved in the water. 
Let rise over night; in the morning add quarter teaspoon 
soda dissolved in little water. If batter is too thick, thin 
with little warm water. Bake on a greased griddle. 



GRIDDLE CAKES. 17^ 

Indian Griddle Cakes. 

Scald one pint of Indian meal, do not make it too wet,, 
add one coffee cup sour milk, teaspoon salt, buttermilk i& 
better if you have it. Stir in the milk one teaspoon soda, add 
small cup flour and beat well. If the batter should be 
too thick add more sour milk. Bake well on a hot 
griddle. 

Mother s Batter Cakes. 

One quart milk, four cups flour, two teaspoons Snow 
Flake baking powder, one teaspoon salt ; add the yolks of 
four beaten eggs and one tablespoon melted butter; beat 
to a smooth batter then add the whipped white of four 
eggs and stir gently. Bake on a greased griddle. 

Sister Kate's Flannel Cakes. 

One quart milk scalded with one tablespoon butter. 
When cool, pour the milk over two or three beaten eggs, 
and add one quart flour ; beat to a smooth batter and add, 
if convenient, two tablespoons mashed potatoes, one tea- 
spoon salt, stir in one cake of Fleischmann's compressed 
yeast dissolved in little water. Set to rise over night; in 
morning, just before baking, put in small teaspoon soda 
dissolved in a tablespoon warm water. If the batter needs 
thinning add little milk. 

Crumb Cakes. 

Put some bread crumbs to soak in a quart of sour milk, 
rub through a sieve and add four well beaten eggs, two 
teaspoons soda, one tablespoon melted butter and enough 
corn meal to make thick. Add Salt. 

Pan Cakes. 
One pint flour, six eggs, one teaspoon each of Snow 



18 FKITTERS, CORN BREAD. 

Flake baking powder and salt; make thin batter with two 
cups milk. Rub a little butter over the bottom of a hot 
frying pan, pour in a ladleful of batter and bake quickly, 
Keep warm and serve with maple syrup. 

Rice Cakes. • ■ 

One cup of rice boiled in one quart sweet milk, one 
pint flour, a teaspoon salt, three eggs. Beat well and 
bake on greased griddle. 

Fr {tiers. — No. 1. 

Beat two eggs very light with one cup milk, one tea- 
spoon salt, and two cups flour. Beat hard and drop a 
spoonful at a time in boiling lard sufficient to cover them. 
Serve with maple syrup. 

Friiters. — No. 2. 

One and half pints of flour, one pint sweet milk, six 
eggs, teaspoon salt, one pint milk, or cream if you have 
it. Drop in hot lard. Fruit, vegetables or oysters may 
be added to this batter. 

Fritters. — No. 3. 

One pint sweet milk, two eggs beaten very light, salt 
spoon salt, four cups flour, with one and half teaspoons 
Snow Flake baking powder. Drop in hot lard. Batter 
for fritters is best made up several hours before using. 

Corn Bread. — No. 1. 

One cup flour, three cups corn meal, three eggs, one 
and half cup butter, two teaspoons Snow Flake baking 
powder; one pint milk and little salt. 

For Annie. 



CORN BREAD, MUSH. 19 

Corn Bread. — No. 2. 

Two cups meal, one cup flour, half cup lard, two tea- 
spoons Snow Flake baking powder, two eggs, one cup 
milk, one of water, a little salt. Bake in quick oven. 

Virginia Corn Bread. 

Dissolve one and half teaspoons butter in one and three- 
fourths pints boiling milk; into this scald one pint corn 
meal, when cool add half cup wheat flour, a little sugar, 
half teaspoon salt and one beaten egg. Mix well together 
and bake in tins well greased. 

Johnny Cake. 

One tablespoon butter, one cup corn meal, one cup flour, 
one Qgg, one cup sour milk, one level teaspoon soda. 

Barley Mush. 

To one quart boiling water and a pint of milk add six 
table spoons of barley meal. Boil one hour slowly. 

Corn Meal Mush. 
One quart boiling water, one tea cup sifted corn meal, 
sift in gradually or mix with cold water and pour in the 
boiling water ; salt, and boil half hour, stiring to keep 
from burning. 

Oat Meal Mush. 

Boil a pint of water, add teaspoon salt ; stir in oat meal 
until thick, boil slowly half hour. Serve with cream and 
sugar or butter. 



SOUPS. 

Soup stock. 

Take five pounds of lean beef, wash and put in cold 
water without salt, let come to a boil, skim. Add little 
salt and very little cold water. Let boil six or eight hours, 
add little pepper, strain and let cool and remove the 
grease. This stock will keep some time. To prepare 
soup from this, cut off a slice of the jelly, add water, 
seasoning or whatever is desired ; boil and skim. 

Tomato Soup. 

Six average tomatoes, peeled and sliced fine in one 
quart boiling water, when this boils add half teaspoon 
soda, when this stops foaming add one pint milk, rolled 
cracker, butter, salt and pepper. 

Potato Soup. 

Two quarts boiling water, one tablespoon of rice, two 
good sized potatoes and half onion sliced thin, two tea- 
spoons butter, salt and pepper to taste. Boil twenty 
minutes. 

Amber Soup. 

Stock. — Take one knuckle of veal, one small carrot, one 
small onion, one small turnip. Simmer the day before 



SOUP. 21 

wanted slowly for nine hours, strain, and let stand over 
night. 

For the Soup. — Remove every particle of fat. Have a 
cup of tapioca in soak for an hour; take two quarts stock 
and cook slowly with the tapioca an hour, salt to taste, 
just before serving add half cup cream. 

Beef Soup. 

Take a shank of beef with plenty of meat on it and boil 
five or sis hours the day before using. The next day 
skim off the grease, put the jelly in the soup kettle and 
one hour before serving add turnips, carrots, onions and 
cabbage chopped fine, in quantity desired. A little celery 
improves it. Season with pepper and salt; add a few 
drop dumplings and three tablespoons rice. 

Noodle Soup. 

Two quarts soup stock, one large tomato, half of an 
onion, half bunch celery. Cook all together slowly one 
and half hours and strain; then add noodles about twelve 
minutes before serving. 

Noodles for Soup. 

Three eggs beaten, two tablespoons of water, pinch of 
salt. Add flour to make a stiff dough, roll thin, sprinkle 
over flour, roll into tight roll, cut into thin slices and let 
dry an hour before putting into soup, 

Duinplings for Soup. 

One pint of flour, one teaspoon Snow Flake baking 
powder, one &^g, small piece of butter, salt, milk enough 
to mix stiff. Drop from a spoon and boil twenty 
minutes. 



22 BEEF TEA. 

Force Meat for Soups. 

Kub the yolks of four hard boiled eggs smooth in a 
bow], moistening to a paste with a few spoons of the soup. 
Mix with these a handful of bread crumbs and the chop- 
ped meat, and make into small balls. 

Browning for Soups. 

A good half cup white sugar, a piece of butter the size 
of a hickory nut one pint boiling water; heat a sauce pan, 
put in the sugar and butter and let it brown, taking care 
that it does not burn, then pour in one pint boiling water. 
Bottle for use. 

Beef Tea. 

Take one pound of lean beef chopped fine, (at market) 
pour over it one pint of cold water let it stand an hour. 
Then set it on back of the range and let simmer slowly 
three-quarters of an hour. Strain and salt when used. 



fISH. 

Baked, Boiled, Fried and Stewed. 

Fish should be properly cleaned on a dry table and 
using as little cold water as possible, wipe dry and rub 
well with salt, place on ice until needed. 

To boil fish put in boiling salted water, with a table- 
spoon vinegar, and simmer slowly, over half hour. Salmon 
will take about an hour. In frying be careful to have 
the fish completely covered with boiling hot lard, or part 
lard and beef fat. In baking fish put in a pan on a rack 
and put little water in bottom of the pan ; if this is not 
convenient put in baking pan with plenty lard and beef 
fat, or all lard, water is apt to make the fish break in tak- 
ing out. If you use water add little vinegar. 

Baked Fish.— No. 1. 

Make a dressing of bread crumbs, butter, salt and pep- 
per ; mix with one Qgg. Fill the fish, sew up, lay in bak- 
ing pan with plenty of lard or beef drippings, do not use 
any water, baste with little melted butter. Bake from 
fifty to sixty minutes; serve with celery sauce. 

Baked Fish. — No. 2. 

Fill fish with a stuffing made of one pint bread crumbs, 
two tablespoons melted butter, one raw Qgg, pepper, salt 
and two teaspoons celery seed. Fill the pan half full of 
water, put the fish on sticks laid cross-wise so that it may 



24 FISH. 

not be in the water, cover with an inverted pan and bake 
one and half hours. Sauce: One tablespoon butter 
beaten smoothly with one tablespoon flour and one cup 
boiling water, stir constantly until it boils, then add salt, 
pepper and one chopped hard boiled egg; pour over the 
fish when done and serve. 

Boiled Salmon. 

Sew up in a cloth cover with warm water and salt, let 
simmer until done which will be about twenty minutes for 
every pound. Take from the cloth, have ready a hot dish 
and lay the fish on it, remove as much of the skin as you 
can, garnish with slices of lemon, and serve with drawn 
butter, or some other nice fish sauce. 

Fried Fish. — No. 1. 

When cleaned and dried, dip in Indian meal or flour. 
Fry slowly in lard or beef fat, sufiicient to cover the fish, 
add pepper and more salt if needed. When brown turn 
over and brown. When done serve. 

F7^ied Fish. — No. 2. 

Cut in pieces; beat up the yolks of several eggs, dip in 
the fish, roll in grated cracker, have ready boiling lard, 
drop fish in boiling lard and fry. 

Fried Fish.— No. 3. 

Have the lard boiling hot, and enough to cover the fish. 
Cut the fish up in small pieces, dredge with corn meal or 
flour; fry on both sides until brown. 

Fried Mackerel. 

Soak and wipe dry, sprinkle with cracker dust or corn 
meal. Fry brown in hot lard; serve with melted butter 
and chopped parsley. 



FISH, OYSTERS. 25 

Stewed Fish. 

Put any kind of fresh or canned fisli to boil. Stew one 
onion, three fourths tea cup butter, one tablespoon vinegar 
together. Mix the yolks of four hard boiled eggs, the 
juice of two lemons, one tablespoon cracker dust, and boil. 
When done put in salt and pepper. Pour over the fish. 

Creamed Fish. 

Boil any fresh or canned fish; pick to pieces; mix iu 
one quart milk or half cream, two tablespoons flour, one 
onion, one cup butter, salt to taste. Set on the fire and 
stir until thick, then put a layer of the mixture in a deep 
pan over it, spread crackers and butter. Do this until 
the dish is full. Bake brown, half hour. 

Cod Fish Balls. 

One pint minced cold codfish, two mashed potatoes, the 
yolks of three eggs, season with pepper and salt. Form 
in cakes and fry in lard. 

To Pickle Trout for Tea. 

Cut the fish in pieces, put in an earthern baking pan, 
season with salt, a few cloves, and little cayenne pepper, 
pour on a cup of vinegar and bake three-quarters of an 
hour. Pour the liquor over the fish and eat cold. 



OYSTERS 



Oyster Soup. 

One quart oysters, two pints milk, one pint water and 
the strained liquor from the oysters; one tablespoon 
cracker dust, or flour made to a smooth paste with little 



26 OYStERS. 

milk ; a piece of butter the size of an egg, salt and pepper 
to taste, a few pieces of chopped celery if liked. Mix 
milk, water, the liquor and butter together in a porcelain 
kettle, then add one tablespoon cracker dust or flour 
mixed to a smooth paste with little milk. Soon as it 
reaches the boiling point, throw in the oysters, then add 
salt and pepper and remove from lire immediately, and 
turn into a warm soup tureen. By no means let the 
oysters boil, or they will shrivel. Do not put oysters in 
until you are ready to serve the soup. 

Oyster Pie. 

Put rich paste in a deep pan. Put in the oysters, sea- 
son with butter, pepper and salt, add crushed crackers, 
and pour in the oyster liquor. When full cover the pan 
with paste and bake brown. 

Scalloped Oysters. 

Take one quart oysters and their liquor, put on the 
stove, in a sauce pan, until they are scalding hot (do not 
boil one instant. ) Have ready a buttered baking dish 
with two cups bread crumbs in it; on this put all the 
oysters and liquor, two tablespoons butter, salt and pep- 
per to taste, cover w4th one and half cups of crumbs, 
three-fourths cup butter, little more salt and pepper on 
top of all. Bake until brown. 

Scalloped Oysters ivith Bice. 

Put three cups rice to soak over night in tepid water. 
Next day add three-fourths pint of oyster juice or broth, 
a few celery leaves and water enough to cover, boil until 
tender; while warm mix half cup butter; when cool beat 
an egg and add one cup milk to the egg, stir into the 
rice adding salt and pepper to taste with a dash of cayenne. 



OYSTERS. 27 

Drain the oysters and add to the rice with all the juice or 
broth from the quart which may drip through, if any (the 
oysters may be chopped if liked. ) Cover the top of the 
pan with half cup butter, broken in small pieces and little 
sweet milk. Bake from thirty-five to forty-five minutes. 

Fried Oysters. 

Select the largest, put them in a colander to drain, then 
in beaten eggs and then in cracker crumbs; fry in equal 
parts of butter and lard until they are brown. They are 
very good dipped in corn meal instead of crumbs. 

Lobster Croquettes. 

Two cups finely chopped lobster, half teaspoon salt, one 
of mustard, a trifle cayenne; mix with one cup cream 
sauce. Make into croquettes, roll in beaten egg and 
cracker crumbs and fry in hot lard. 



MEATS. 

BEEF. 

Rule for Boiling. — Fresh meat should be placed in a 
kettle of boiling water and kept where it will boil slowly, 
but constantly until done. Salt meat should always be 
put in cold water, so it may freshen in cooking. Allow 
twenty minutes to the pound for fresh, and thirty-five for 
salt meats. 

Rule for Roasting. — Keep the meat at a moderate dis- 
tance from the fire. See that it is kept continually turned 
and well basted, as much depends upon attention tc this. 

Rule for Baking. — Place in a pan on a tripod or blocks 
of wood to keep out of the fat, and put in a hot oven. 
Allow fifteen minutes to the pound for beef, mutton and 
veal, and twenty minutes to the pound for pork and lamb. 
When done the roast should be a rich brown. Remove 
from oven, sift evenly over with fine salt and it is ready 
to serve. 

Rule for Broiling. — The best way to cook a steak is to 
broil it over moderately hot coals, turning often and bas- 
ting with butter. Another convenient way : Have a fry- 
ing pan hot, grease the bottom but have no surplus fat, 
put in the steak and as soon as it browns, turn it, keep 
turning it every minute or two, till the outside is cooked 
this will keep in the juices. Then cover it and let it cook 



BEEF. 29 

about three minutes, turn it and let it cook for three 
minutes more. If it is not a very thick steak it will 
be clone sufficiently by this time. If it is turned often at 
■first it cannot be distinguished from a broiled steak. When 
taken from the fire baste with butter and season with salt 
and pepper. 

Rule for Frying Steak. — Frying is properly cooking in 
lard or butter sufficient to cover the meat, and should be 
boiling hot. The secret of success is frying in haste. 

Another way is, to use just enough butter, lard or drip- 
pings, sufficient to cook the steak. 

Pot Roast of Beef 

Take a stone pot, must be shallow enough to stand in 
oven, rinse the meat, gash a little with a knife, put it into 
the pot, if closely crowded all the better, sprinkle well with 
salt and pepper, cover with a lid, and put a brick on the 
plate to hold it down. Put no water in the pot, and allow 
no escape of steam while roasting. Bake in moderate 
oven four or five hours, according to size of roast. 

Roai^it Beef 

The best pieces for roasting are the first and second 
•cut of the sirloin. The next to be preferred are the first 
<3ut of the rib and the back of the rump. Dredge with 
fiour, salt and pepper, place in dripping pan with little 
water, baste often. If a large piece of beef of ten or 
twelve pounds, allow fifteen minutes to every. pound; a 
small piece ten minutes to every pound. Make a gravy 
of the dripping, after carefully skimming off all the grease 
pour the remainder into a saucepan, mix a little brown 
ilour carefully, so as not to have any lumps, and stir into 
the liquid while hot, boil three minutes and it is ready to 
serve. 



30 BEEF. 

Poiied Beef. 

Boil a shank of beef till tender in salt water, slip out 
the bone and leave to cool, chop the meat very fine and 
boil in the liquor from which it was taken, adding pepper^ 
spice and celery. Pour in a dish, when cool it is ready 
for use. 

Meat Pie. 

Line a dish, as for ordinary meat pies, cut up any cold 
meat, put in a layer of meat, then one of onions and a few 
sliced potatoes, previously boiled, then a layer of meaty 
season with salt and pepper, dredge in some flour, put on 
water enough to make a gravy, then a top crust. Bake 
an hour. 

Beef Loaf. 

Take two pounds of lean beef, chop fine, add a small 
slice of pickled pork, chopped fine, two eggs well beaten ^ 
four soda crackers rolled, salt and pepper to taste, and 
one teaspoon butter. Make into a loaf and bake. . 

Dressed Tongue. 

Put a corned tongue in water to soak for ten hours,, 
change the water twice, then boil until tender, split it, 
stick in a few cloves, one onion cut up, a little thyme, 
add some browned flour. Have the tongue covered with 
water in which mix the ingredients, add three hard boiled 
eggs chopped fine and a glass of wine. Send to table 
garnished with hard boiled eggs, 

Fresh Beef Tongue. 

Put a tongue in water sufficient to cover it and let sim- 
mer six hours, or until tender, then remove the skin- 
Slice when cold. 



BEEF. 31 

Broiled Beef Steak. 

Put a choice steak over a hot clear fire on a buttered 
gridiron, turn when colored, when donelay ona hot dish, 
season with salt, pepper and butter; cover for a moment 
then serve. 

Fried Beef Steak.— No. 1. 

Sprinkle with pepper and salt, then dredge with flour 
on both sides. Have ready a hot frying pan, with equal 
parts of butter and lard or beef dripping sufficient, laying 
in the steak. When done sift powdered crackers over 
and serve. 

Fried Beef Steak.— No. 2. 

Pound the steak and fry in plenty of butter and lard, 
when steak is done take out, and sprinkle with salt and 
pepper, cover while making the gravy. For the gravy? 
take one good tablespoon flour and with the back of the 
spoon mix ingredients until smooth and brown, being 
careful not to have too hot. Pour in enough warm water 
(not hot) to make a nice thick gravy, then add half cup 
sweet milk, salt and pepper, and let boil two or three 
minutes then pour into gravy bowl and pour little over 
the steak. 

Hamburg Steak, 

To each pound of ground beef take one-fourth pound 
of chopped beef suet, cut some onion very fine, mix in, 
season with salt and pepper to taste, make in small cakes 
and fry, with flour sprinkled on both sides, in beef suet 
and butter or lard. 

French Beef Steak. 

Cut up steak in small pieces, fry in butter or whatever 
you wish, add water enough to cover and stew gently 



32 BEEF. 

two and half hoars, when nearly done season with salt 
and pepper, chopped onion and parsley. When done re- 
move from vessel, then take tablespoon of flour mixed 
with a little water to a smooth thin paste, then stir into 
broth to make gravy, after which, pour over steak and 
serve. 

Boiled Corned Beef. 

Put piece of corned beef in plenty of cold water, cook 
fifteen minutes to the pound; when over half done put in 
turnips, when both beef and turnips are done, dish up the 
beef and lay the sliced turnips around it. If you like 
beef fresh, change the water a second time, while boiling. 

Corned Beef for Tea. 

Boil until soft enough to pull the bones out, place in 
an earthern dish and pour over it the water in which it 
was boiled. After removing fat, place a plate on it, and 
a heavy weight, have suflicient water so that when the 
weights are on it will come to the top of the meat. Let 
stand until cold, flien cut in thin slices and it is ready 
for use. 

Beefstecdi with Onions. 

Pound the steak and fry in equal parts of butter and 
lard, then add salt and pepper, now dredge flour over it 
and add one cup boiling water. Drain the onions, which 
have been boiled, cut them up and put into pan, having 
taken out the steak, add a lump of butter and little more 
flour, stir and when the onions are brown and thoroughly 
heated put in the steak. 

Hash. 

Chop equal quantities of cold boiled beef and potatoes, 
add some salt, pepper and a little water and cook in a 



BEEF. 33 

frying pan with butter about the size of hickory nut. To 
one pint each of beef and potatoes add one or two thinly 
sliced onions, cook slowly from twenty minutes to half 
hour. If it gets too dry add little more warm water. 

Spiced Beef. 

Five pounds of shank boiled five hours with celery 
seed, drain off, then chop the meat very fine, add pepper 
and salt to taste and put in a cloth on a platter, cover 
with a cloth and press it. 

Liver and Onions. 

Slice the liver thin and soak in salt and water, cut up 
several onions and put in the frying pan with little water, 
when tender put in a spoon of lard and fry until onions 
are brown, take them up and set to keep warm. Fry the 
liver in the pan, adding more lard; pour the onions over 
and serve. 

Grated Ham Sandiciches. 

Cut a good sized piece from the thick portion of a ham, 
that has been boiled, season with spice, mustard and celery 
seed. Spread on thin bread and butter. 

Tongue Sandiciches. 

Grate one pound of cold boiled tongue, mix with it a 
tablespoon mustard, a little pepper, the mashed yolk of a 
hard boiled egg, two tablespoons butter, one grated nut- 
meg and the juice of one lemon. Split and butter some 
nice biscuit, and spread the mixture between. 

VEAL. 

Roast Veal. — No. 1. 

Take a loin of veal, make a stuffing the same as for 
turkey, fill the fat with the dressing and secure it firmly 



34 VEAL. 

OD to the loin, rub the veal over with salt, pepper and 

butter, put in a pan with little hot water, baste frequently, 

letting it cook until thoroughly clone and serve with brown 

gravy. 

Roast Veal. — No. 2. 

Take the breast, rub well with pepper, salt and butter, 

dredge with flour, and put in a pan with a pint of boiling 

water, a slice of fat bacon, minced onion, place in a very 

hot oven, baste, and cook done. Thicken the gravy with 

mashed potatoes. 

Veal Loaf. 

Three pounds of raw veal cutlet, chopped fine, two 
slices of salt pork chopped, two eggs, three teaspoons of 
salt, one of pepper, two slices of bread crumbed fine, half 
cup cream or milk. Make into a loaf, dredge with flour 
and bake three hours. It is nice to put hard boiled eggs 
through the loaf. 

Veal Marble. 

Boil a beef tongue the day before it is to be used, and 
a like number of pounds of lean veal, grind separately in 
sausage cutter or chop as fine as possible; season tongue 
powdered sweet herbs, a teaspoon mustard and a pinch of 
<3loves; season veal same, adding salt, pack in alternate 
spoonfuls irregularly as possible in bowls or jars well 
buttered, press very hard as you go on, smooth top and 
.cover with melted butter, when cool, close the vessels. 
Keep in cool place, turn out whole and cut in slices. 

Veal Oysters. 

Cut veal into pieces, the size of large oysters, pound 
well and dip into beaten Qgg^ then into rolled cracker and 
fry in hot lard, as oysters. A most delicious manner of 
vcooking veal. Lulu. 



VEAL. 35 

Veal Cuileis. 

Dip in beaten egg, when you have sprinkled a liitle 

pepper and salt over them, then roll in fine bread crumbs 

and fry in lard. Add water to the gravy and thicken 
with flour and pour over the meat. 

Veal Fricassee. 

Take piece of veal from the breast or ribs, cut it in 
thin pieces about three inches square and put it over the 
fire in enough water to make plenty of grav}^, After it 
boils, skim. Add a chopped onion, some leaves or stalks 
of celery, tied in a bunch and let it cook slowly one and 
half hours or little longer. Just before taking it up, add 
•a tablespoon butter and one of flour, creamed together. 
After removing the meat add little chopped parsley. 
Chicken can be cooked in the same way. 

Fried Calf's Liver. 

Cut in slices and soak in salt water, season with salt, 
pepper and sweet herbs. Dredge with flour and drop in 
boiling lard. 

Meai Jelly. 

A knuckle of veal, one pound of beefsteak from the 
round, three pints of water cold, boil after skimming, five 
or six hours, then take out the meat and separate it from 
the bones and gristle, cut it into small pieces, with knife 
and fork return it to the liquor, season with salt and pep- 
per adding celery salt if liked; heat once more and pour 
into a mould. 

Veal Salad. 

Boil lean veal until tender, chop quite fine, chop two 
or three hard boiled eggs and mix with it, take cabbage 



36 CHICKEN. 

or lettuce chopped fine, mix with salad dressing and gar- 
nish. 



eHieKEN. 



Roast Chicken. 

Prepare a full-grown chicken, fill with dressing the 
same as for turkey; rub a little lard over the chicken^ 
place in dripping pan with little water, salt, and butter or 
lard. Bake an hour or more, according to size of chicken. 
Baste two or three times w^ith butter and water, afterward 
with their own gr'avy. Stew the giblets in a little water, 
when you have removed the fowl to a hot dish, pour this 
into the drippings, boil up once, add the giblets chopped 
fine, thicken with brown fiour, boil again and send to table 
in a gravy boat. 

Fried Chicken. 

Cut chicken in pieces, then wipe dry, have in a pan 
some butter and lard mixed, dust some flour over each 
piece, season with salt and pepper, then fry slowly, till 
brown on both sides. Take them up, put a little water 
and milk in a pan and some butter rolled in flour to- 
thicken gravy and more pepper and salt if needed. Young 
spring chickens are only suitable for frying. 

Baked Chicken. — No. 1. 

Cut up the chicken, salt, and dip in flour, have a drip- 
ping pan with plenty of boiling lard, into which lay the 
chicken and put on the bottom of a well heated oven, as 
soon as brown turn over the other side and brown, moisten 
a little flour with water, stir in to make gravy. Veal or 
lamb chops are nice cooked in this way. 



CHICKEN. 37 

Baked Chicken. — No. 2. 

Split the chicken, put in dripping pan, put in the stove 
without water. When half done take out the chicken and 
with salt, pepper and butter, return to oven to brown. 

Roast Turkey. 

Have your dressing prepared, fill the skin of the crop 
and also the inside, sew it up, put it in the oven, and 
roast moderately three hours. Dressing — Take bread 
crumbs, put in a small piece of butter, or a little cream, 
with sage or chopped onion, pepper and salt, one egg, a 
small quantity of flour, moistened with milk. 

Pressed Chicken. 

Take two chickens, boil in as little water as possible 
until they shall drop from the bones, cut it with a knife 
and fork, then put it back in the kettle, adding plenty of 
butter, pepper and salt, heat it thoroughly, slice a hard 
boiled egg, and place it in the bottom of a dish, pour it 
on hot, place a weight upon it and put away to cool. It 
will come out in a form. 

A nice icay to cook Chicken. 

Cut the chicken up, put in a pan, and cover it over 
with water letting it stew as usual and when done make a 
thickening of cream or milk and flour, adding a piece of 
butter, pepper and salt. Have baked a couple of short- 
cakes, made as for pie crust, rolled thin and cut in 
squares. This is much better than chicken pie and more 
simple to make. The crust should be laid in a dish, next 
to the chicken, and gravy poured over all. 

Mother'' s Chicken Salad. 
The best meat of two chickens, minced fine, twice as 

4 



68 CHICKEN, DUCK^ QUAIL. 

much minced celery, five hard boiled eggs, four large 
spooDS melted butter rubbed with the yolks, and the 
whites minced fine. Mix thoroughly with this one and a 
half teaspoons mustard; salt and pepper to taste, moisten 
the whole with one cup cream or chicken broth and a lit- 
tle vinegar — make pretty moist. In absence of celery use 
cabbage. Veal salad can be made in the same way. 

Chicken Pie. 

Joint the chicken, put in a kettle, cover with water, and 
let boil until tender, then cut them in small pieces, re- 
moving the bones. Line a dish with pastry made of six 
cups flour, one teaspoon Snow Flake baking powder, one 
cup lard, one of water, half teaspoon salt. Sprinkle some 
flour over the crust, on the bottom of the dish. Sprinkle 
salt, pepper and more flour on the top, also bits of butter. 
Pour as much of the chicken liquid as necessary over the 
whole, then spread on the remainder of the crust. Put 
bits of butter over the top and bake. 

Roast Duel'. 

Prepare and roast like other poultry. Put in a quick 
oven and roast from thirty-five to forty minutes. If liked 
rare, half an hour. 

Prairie Chicken. ' 

Lard the breast and legs, skewer and tie into shape, 
sprinkle with salt, rub little butter upon the breast; 
dredge with flour. Cook in quick oven twenty minutes, 
if liked rare; thirty, if well done. 

Quail. 

Split, clean and wash the quail. Broil on a buttered 

gridiron over a lively fire, taking care they do not scorch, 

Lat first; season, put a bit of butter on each and serve hot. 



MUTTON, PORK. 39 

MUTTON. 



Roast Mutton. 

The leg of mutton with the bone removed and stuffed 
like poultry is very nice baked. Put the mutton in a pan 
a little warm, set in the stove and bake slowly, baste with 
butter, salt and pepper; just before dishing put some 
chopped horseradish over it, a little ground mustard if 
liked, and sprinkle with grated crackers. Serve with 
mint sauce. Bake about three hours. 

Lamb Chops. 

Take lamb chop pounded, dip in a preparation of eggs, 
a little parsley and salt, then roll in powdered crackers 
and fry same as oysters, only keep well covered while 
cooking, and you will find it good. 

Boast Lamb. 

The hind quarter is the most desirable. Pat in a pan, 
dredge with flour, pepper, salt and any kind of herbs you 
may prefer ; put in a hot oven, pour in little water and 
baste with butter, make a rich sauce. Serve with mint 
sauce and walnut catsup. 

Boiled Leg of Lamb. 

Kub with salt a leg of lamb or mutton, tie in a linen 
cloth and boil slowly two or three hours. 



PORK. 



Boast Pork.— No. 1. 

Make deep incisions in the roast. Boil some potatoes, 
mash them fine, put in butter, pepper, salt and minced 



40 PORK. 

onion; with this dressing fill the incisions, put in the 
stove and bake slowly three hours. Make brown gravy ; 
serve with apple sauce. 

Roast Pork. — No. 2. 

Take a large roast, cover with grated bread, pepper, 
salt, butter, onions, sage and thyme. Place in a pan with 
water, when nearly done, lay all around some nice cook- 
ing apples, when done dish your pork with the apples 
around it; pour the gravy over it. The roast should be 
kept covered the first two hours as the bread would get 
too much baked. 

To Boil Ham. 

Wash and scrape the ham thoroughly; boil it slowly 
for three or four hours, according to its size; remove it 
from the water, skin it, put it on the grate of your roast- 
ing pan and let it stand in a moderate oven for an hour, 
then take it out and dust the fat thickly with fine bread 
crumbs. Return it to the oven until the crumbs are 

brown. 

Fried Ham. 

Put a little butter and lard mixed, in frying pan. 
Slice the ham very thin and fry, take out and pour in one 
cup water. Make a thickening of a small tablespoon flour 
and one cup rich milk into a smooth batter, pour into the 
water and cook until the gravy is thick. Pour over ham, 
add salt and pepper. 

Ham Toast. 

Mince fine the lean of boiled ham, beat the yolks of 
two eggs and with a little cream and a lump of butter, mix 
with the ham. Put in a skillet and stir until thick, have 
ready some slices of toast buttered and lay spoonfuls of 
the ham on them. 



PORK. 



41 



Ham Balls. 

Take odg and half cups of bread crumbs, and mix with 
two beaten eggs, chop fine, one pint ham bits and mixing 
altogether; form in balls and fry. 

Fried Pork Steak. 
Fry in butter, season with salt and pepper; flavor with 
some powdered sage. 

Sparerihs Baked. 
Put in dripping pan with little water, season with salt 
and pepper.^ Bake half hour. 

Boast Tenderloins. 

Take three pounds fresh tenderloins, have them split. 
Boil a small measure of white onions, flavor with sage, 
pepper and salt, chop and tie up in the loins. Serve with 
a brown gravy. 

Pork must be well cooked. 

Baked Pig. 
Take a six weeks old pig, score in squares and rub all 
over with lard, make a dressing of two quarts cornmeal 
rolled and mixed in boiling water, add to it one cup but- 
ter, pepper, salt and thyme. Fill the pig with it and sew 
up, put in a deep pan with hot water, baste frequently 
until brown and crisp. Serve with baked apples. 

Breakfast Sausage. 
One pound sausage, one tablespoon pounded crackers, 
two eggs well beaten, work and make into cakes. Drop 
each into a plate of pounded crackers ; put in hot frying 
pan with little lard or butter and fry on both sides. 

Sausage Bolls. 
Plain paste as for pie, roll the sausages in separate 
pastes. Bake in the oven till brown. 



42 PORK, COLD MEAT. 

Sausage Seasoyiing. 

Three even teaspoons powdered sage, one and half even 
teaspoons salt, one even teaspoon pepper to each pound 
meat. 

Scrapple. {Splendid.) 

Take two hogs' heads and cook tender, hash fine, add 
one teacup of liquor they were boiled in, to each head, 
pepper, salt and sage to taste. Thicken it with half corn- 
meal the other half flour, as stiff as you can stir it with 
a strong spoon. Pack in a crock until cold then slice 
and fry a nice brown. 

Cold Meat Croquettes. 

One pint cold chopped meat, one half pint milk, one tea- 
spoon salt, a little pepper, one tablespoon butter, two 
tablespoons flour, a little onion juice. Mix butter and 
flour together and add to the boiling milk, stir until it 
thickens, then add the salt and meat, Which must be chop- 
ped fine. Set away to cool, and when cool beat one egg 
to dip the croquettes in after they have been rolled into 
shape, then roll in crumbs and fry. Any kind of cold 
meat can be used in this way ; veal is very nice. 

Cold Meats. 

Take the remains of cold ham, mutton or roast beef, 

chop fine with hard boiled eggs, two heads of lettuce, a 

bit of onion ; season with pepper, salt and vinegar ; serve 

cold. 

Pot Pourri. 

Take cold chicken (or any cold meat), chop fine and 
put in a stew pan with warm water, pepper, salt and min- 
ced onions, cook half hour, put in baking pan with grated 
bread crumbs, and teacup cream or milk. Bake brown. 



SAUCE FOR MEAT AND FISH. 

Italian Sauce. 

Put a lump of butter in a stew pan with some mush- 
rooms, parsley, onions and one laurel leaf, cut fine- set 
over the fire for some time; shake in a little flour, moisten 
with a glass of white wine, the same of soup stock, with 
salt and pepper. Boil half hour. Serve with any meats. 

Onion Sauce. 
Boil one pint milk, season, add tablespoon batter and 
one of flonr moistened .sitli cold milk; when thick put in 
some chopped pieces of onion already cooked. 

Draion Butter. 
Half teacup butter, two tablespoons of flour, rub to- 
gether and stir into one pint boiling water. 

Melted Butter. 
Two large tablespoons butter cut into small pieces, put 
in stew pan with large tablespoon flour and a cup of new 
milk; shake over the fire until it begins to simmer, then 
let boil. It should be as thick as cream. 
Sauce for Fish.— No. 1. 

Butter the size of a walnut, put into one pint milk, 
thicken with flour; let it first simmer then boil, add two 
hard boiled eggs chopped fine, salt and pepper to taste. 



44 SAUCES FOK MEATS. 

If you wish lobster sauce add quarter can of lobster chop- 
ped fine. 

Sauce for Fish. — No. 2. 

Two hard boiled eggs, two cold boiled potatoes grated, 
one teaspoon grated onion, one teaspoon made mustard, 
one of salt, little pepper, four teaspoons salad oil, two tea- 
spoons vinegar; strain through a sieve. This is nice for 

baked or boiled 'fish. 

Egg Sauce. 

, Boil four eggs hard, first chop half the whites, then 
put in the yolks and chop altogether, put in one cup but- 
ter, let boil; add juice of one lemon if liked; season with 
thyme, salt, pepper and chopped parsley. 

MaUre cVHofe Sauce. 

Add to one cup of fresh made drawn butter, the juice 
of one small lemon, chopped parsley, minced onions and 
thyme, cayenne pepper and salt; beat while simmering. 
Serve with meat or fish. 

Game Sauce. 

Take veal soup or gravy, squeeze in the juice of sev- 
eral large oranges, a glass of wine, tablespoon currant 
jelly ; let boil. For wild ducks or wild goose. 

Celery Sauce. 

Chop several large bunches of celery, stew in water 
until tender, add one tablespoon vinegar, a little salt and 
pepper, pour in teacup cream and let simmer. To^be ser- 
ved with boiled meats or wild fowls. 

Mint Sauce. 

Three tablespoons of vinegar, two of mint, one of white 
sugar, one of salt ; mix ten minutes before using. To be 
served with spring lamb. 



SAUCES FOE MEATS. 45 

Salmon Salad. 

Take one can of salmon, drain the fish and pick it to 
pieces, removing all the bones and pieces of skin. Chop 
•double the quantity of celery, lettuce or cabbage and mix 
with it; use mayonaise dressing and garnish with sliced 
lemons. 

Caramel Coloring. 

Put into a sauce pan (porcelain) one cup sugar and 
tablespoon water, stir it constantly over the fire until it 
has turned a bright darkish brown color, being very care- 
ful not to let it burn or blacken, then add a teacup of 
water and little salt; let it boil a few minutes longer, cool 
and strain. Put away in a close corked bottle and it is 
always ready for coloring soups or gravies. 



VEGETABLES. 



All green vegetables must be washed thoroughly in 
cold water and dropped into water which has been salted^ 
and is just beginning to boil. If the water boils a long 
time before the vegetables are put in, it loses all its gases^ 
The vegetables will not look green nor have a fine flavor. 

The time of boiling green vegetables depends very 
much upon the age, and how long they have been gathered. 
The younger and more freshly gathered the more quickly 
they are cooked. 

The following is a time table for cooking: 

Potatoes boiled 30 minutes- 
Potatoes baked 45 minutes. 

Sweet Potatoes boiled 45 minutes. 

Sweet Potatoes baked 1 hour. 

Squash boiled 25 minutes- 
Squash baked 45 minutes- 
Green Peas boiled 20 to 40 minutes- 
Shell Beans boiled 1 hour- 
String Beans boiled 1 to 2 hours.. 

Green Corn 25 minutes to 1 hour. 

Asparagus 15 to 20 minutes- 
Spinach 1 to 2 hours- 

Tomatoes fresh 1 hour. 

Tomatoes canned 30 minutes- 
Cabbage 45 minutes to 2 hours. 

Cauliflower 1 to 2 hours- 
Dandelions , 2 to 3 hours- 
Beet Greens 1 hour- 
Onions 1 to 2 hours- 
Beets 1 to 5 hours- 
Turnips White 45 minutes to 1 hour- 
Turnips Yellow 30 minutes to 2 hours- 

Parsnips 1 to 2 hours. 

Carrots 1 to 2 hours- 



VEGETABLES. ' 47 

Twni Over Potatoes . 

Take two cups mashed potatoes and mould with the 
hands into a flat round cake, if necessary adding flour to 
make it moulding consistency. Put in any kind of 
chopped meat, and a lump of butter the size of a hickory 
nut, turn over the sides of the cake and pinch the edges 
as you would a turn over pie. Fry in hot lard, after dip- 
ping in egg; and bread crumbs. You can use chopped 
oysters if wished. 

Potato Puffs. 

Two cups mashed potatoes, one cup milk, two table- 
spoons melted butter, two eggs well beaten, little nutmeg 
if liked. Stir in butter first, then eggs, milk and salt; 
pour in buttered dish and bake in quick oven till brown. 

Scalloped Potato. 

Pare and slice thin potatoes, let them stand in cold 
water two hours, sprinkle a buttered dish with cracker 
crumbs, then a layer of potatoes, some bits of butter, 
pepper and salt, so on until the dish is filled; having 
crumbs and butter on top. 

Saratoga Potatoes. 

Pare and slice very thin potatoes, let them stand one 
hour in water with a piece of alum the size of a pea, wipe 
dry and fry in very hot lard, a light brown. Salt while 
hot. 

Potato Balls. 

Take one pint mashed potatoes highly seasoned with 
salt, pepper, celery salt, chopped parsley and butter, and 
moisten with a little hot milk; beat one Qgg light, add 
part of it to the potato, shape into smooth round balls, 
brush over with the remainder of the egg and bake on a 



48 VEGETABLES. 

buttered tin till brown. Be careful and not get them too 
moist. These can also be fried in beef drippings. 

Stewed Pofafoes. 

Pare and slice potatoes, put them in a sauce pan with 
milk enough to cover them, let them boil till done, thicken 
with little flour smoothed in cold milk, add a good piece 
of butter, a little salt and pepper to taste. A little finely 
chopped parsley may be added. 

Baked Poicdoes. — No. 1. 

Put in a hot oven ; when done pierce with a fork to let 
steam escape. 

Baked Potatoes. — No. 2. 

Bake and when they are done, cut lengthwise and put 
between butter, salt and pepper, close together and 
serve hot. 

Baked Potatoes. — No. 3. 

Pare and boil ten minutes in salt water, put in a pan 
and place in the oven. Baste with pork or beef drip- 
pings. 

Fried Potatoes. — No. 1. 

Take cold boiled potatoes, peel and slice thin; fry in 
butter or drippings until brown; season with salt and 
pepper. 

Fried Potatoes. — No. 2. ' 

Take cold boiled potatoes, slice thin put a piece of but- 
ter in skillet and when hot put in potatoes with little hot 
water, add pepper and salt; when nearly done add a little 
milk. 



» VEGETABLES. ' 49 

Stewed Tomatoes. 

Peel and chop tomatoes, season with salt and pepper, 
minced onion and a little sugar. Put in a sauce pan and 
stew ; add a few broken pieces macaroni and butter. 

Raw Tomatoes. 

Pare with a sharp knife and slice a plateful of ripe 
tomatoes; set on ice; pour over a dressing of vinegar, 
olive oil, pepper and salt with a tablespoon sugar. 

Hot Slaic. 

Chop cabbage fine, sprinkle over with flour, put a 
small piece of butter over the fire to melt; salt and pep- 
per the cabbage and put in the pan with the butter. Mix 
half cup cream, half cup vinegar, one egg, one tablespoon, 
mustard, teaspoon sugar and heat thoroughly. Serve 
warm. 

Cold Slaw 

One cup milk or cream, one cup vinegar, one small cup- 
sugar, three eggs beaten very light, a lump of butter the 
size of an egg, one heaping teaspoon mustard, pepper and 
salt. Cook until like custard, when cool, pour over cabbage 
cut very fine. A little chopped celery is an improvement. 

To Boil Cabbage. 

Wash and cut up a head of cabbage; drain after soak- 
ing and put in a pot with a piece of fat bacon, season 
with red pepper. Boil until done. 

Cauliflower. 

Kemove the outside leaves, cut in pieces, put in boiling- 
water ; simmer two hours. Drain and serve with melted 
butter. 



50 VEGETABLES. 

Cabbage Souffle. 

Chop cabbage small and boil in salted water until ten- 
der, drain off water, pressing with a spoon. To two 
quarts of boiled cabbage allow four eggs beaten separate- 
ly, one tea cup butter, one of rich milk, salt and pepper 
to taste; mix well; bake twenty minutes in buttered 
baking dish; serve hot. For small family halve this. 

Mrs. W. P. A., Mt. Vernon, Ohio. 

Stewed Beefs. 

Wash three large beets, without breaking the skin or 
cutting off the tops or roots too closely, boil them an hour 
in a little salt and water, peel and slice them and boil an- 
other hour in the following sauce: Mix together in a 
saace pan, over the fire, one large tablespoon of butter 
and also one of flour, the same of vinegar, stir in a pint 
of boiling water, season with pepper and salt to taste. 

Beefs. 

Wash them, put on to boil without cutting the roots; 
boil one hour or until tender, then slice and dress with 
melted butter. Sprinkle with sugar before serving if 
liked. 

Snajj Beans. 

Boil in salt and water until tender; drain and serve 
with butter, cream and pepper. 

Cymlings. 

Peel and boil, run through a colander ; season with 
salt, pepper, cream and butter. Cook very slowly. 

Stewed Celery, 

Cut in small pieces and stew; when tender add cream, 
butter and a little flour. Season to taste. 



VEGETABLES. 51 

Stewed Mushrooms. 

Peel fresh mushrooms, sprinkle with pepper and salt, 
put in a sauce pan with a little water and a tablespoon of 
butter, let boil ten minutes, pour in pint of cream or rich 
milk, thicken with flour. 

Asparagus. 

Scrape the stems, tie in bunches, throw into boiling 
water and boil twenty minutes. Have slices of bread 
toasted and dish the asparagus on it, pour over melted 
butter. Asparagus may be boiled, stirred in butter and 
fried. 

Scalloped Onions, Caulifloiver or Aspargus. 

Boil either vegetables until tender, then put in baking 
dish, and pour over sauce made of one tablespoon of but- 
ter rubbed into one and half tablespoons flour, pour over it 
one pint hot milk and cook until like custard. Bake half 
hour; cut cauliflower or asparagus into small pieces, be- 
fore pouring over the sauce. 

Egg Plant. 

Peel and cut the plant in slices less than half an inch 
thick; immerse in salt and water over an hour, drain and 
dip each slice in beaten Qg§^ and bread crumbs, and fry 
brown. 

Parsnip Balls. 

Boil in salted water till very tender, mash and season 
with butter, pepper and salt, add a little flour and two 
well-beaten eggs; form into small balls and fry in hot 
lard. 



52 VEGETABLES. 

Baked Tomatoes. 

Take six large ripe tomatoes, skin and cut into small 
pieces, spread a layer in the bottom of bake dish, season 
well, put a layer of coarse bread crumbs over the toma- 
toes, with plenty of butter; continue this until the dish is 
full, having bread crumbs on top. . Bake one hour. Can- 
ned tomatoes can be used, but do not bake so long. Sliced 
onions cooked in this way are very nice. 

Turnips. 

Boil and mash ; season with cream, butter, pepper and 
salt. Turnips are nice boiled with fresh pork. 

Baked Corn. 

Fill a baking dish with corn, cut or scraped from the 
cob; cover the corn with milk; season with butter, pep- 
per and salt. Bake two hours. 

Green Coryi Cake. 

Six ears of grated corn, the yolks of two eggs, a little 
salt, three rolled crackers; grease the griddle, drop from 
the spoon and bake twenty minutes. 

Carrots. 

Scrape the carrots, slice very thin and boil in salt and 
water three-quarters of an hour, drain off the water and 
add one cup milk, a little pepper, butter and salt and two 
teaspoons cornstarch. Return to stove and cook for five 
minutes before serving. 

Succotash. 

Boil one quart lima or string beans until tender, cut 
down the middle the grains of one dozen ears corn, and 
scrape. Drain off water from beans, add the corn, season 



SALADS. 53 

with salt, pepper and a good lump of butter. If too dry, 
add little cream or milk. Cook twenty minutes after 
adding the corn. 

Minced Spinach. 

Wash spinach carefully and boil until tender, drain or 
rub thi'ough a colander or chop fine; then put in frying 
pan a good lump of butter, the spinach, salt and pepper 
to taste; when hot put in three tablespoons cream. Gar- 
nish with hard boiled eggs. 

Baked Beayis. 

Soak one quart beans over night, pour ofiP the water 
and cook in fresh water until they crack open, then put 
into a deep earthen dish, cover with water add one teacup 
sweet milk, put in the center of dish half pound of par- 
boiled pork, which should be scored across the rind. 
Bake slowly four hours, keep covered with water until 
two-thirds done, then allow them to bake brown. 



SALADS. 



Potato Salad. 

Boil potatoes; when cold slice them thin, add an onion 
chopped fine, season with salt and pepper; moisten with 
vinegar and sweet oil ; twice as much vinegar as oil, added 
gradually. Place it in a dish lined with lettuce. Keep 
cool till wanted. 

Salad Dressing. 

Two tablespoons mustard, one of butter, one teas[)Oon 
salt, one tablespoon flour, one of sugar, yolks of two eggs 



54 TOMATO SALAD. 

beaten, one and half teacups vinegar, three tablespoons 
of cream or milk. Mix mustard, sugar, flour, salt in a 
little cold water, pour on eggs vinegar and butter; set 
over liot water. Just before taking up add cream and 
when taken from heat beat with egg beater. 

Mrs. L. H. C. 

Mayonaise Dressing. 

Yolks two hard boiled eggs and one raw, half teaspoon 
salt, a dash of cayenne pepper, half teaspoon dry mustard, 
one teaspoon powdered sugar, half cup olive oil, one table- 
spoon vinegar. Mash the cooked yolks, add raw one and 
mix until perfectly smooth, then add the salt, pepper, sugar 
and mustard; mix and work again, then the oil a few 
drops at a time, stirring all the while; then the vinegar 
by degrees. Those who object to olive oil can use instead 
one tablespoon melted butter and cream enough to make 
half teacupful. 

Cabbage Salad. 

One quart chopped cabbage, three hard boiled eggs, 
cut fine, put in a dish with layers of salt and pepper be- 
tween. Take one tablespoon butter, two teaspoons of 
sugar, one of flour, half teaspoon mustard, one cup of 
vinegar and one raw egg, stir all together and let come 
to a boil, pour on the cabbage and mix well. Lettuce or 
celery chopped is nice prepared in this way. 

Tomato Salad. 

Peel with a sharp knife and cut six large tomatoes in 
slices. Take one tablespoon of oil, one of vinegar, tea- 
spoon of mustard, salt and pepper; mix and pour over the 
tomatoes. 



TOAST 55 

Buffered Toasf. 

Toast bread to a delicate brown, dip in boiling water, 
containing a little salt; spread with butter and keep hot. 

Cream Toast 

Toast slices of bread thin, lay in a covered dish and pour 
boiling water over; pour the water off and let drain. Put 
one pint rich sweet milk or cream on the stove in a quart 
cup, add three tablespoons butter, two beaten eggs and a 
tablespoon flour or cornstarch, little salt. Let boil up 
once and pour over the toast. 

Ham Toast. 

Mince some cold boiled ham very fine, stir in a pint of 
cream with pepper, mustard, butter and two eggs. Boil 
and pour over nicely brown toast. Set in oven to drv. 

Welsh Bare Bif. 

Grate one pint cheese, sprinkle on it half teaspoon 
mustard, one-fourth teaspoon salt and a sprinkle of cay- 
enne. Heap this on slices of buttered toast; put in the 
hot oven for a few moments and when the cheese beo-ins 
to melt, serve at once. 

Cheese Fondu. 

One cup rolled crackers, one cup milk, three-fourths 
cup chopped cheese, two eggs, whites and yolks beaten 
separately. Bake about twenty minutes in a quick oven ; 
serve immediately. 

FranJc's German Pan Calces. 

Three eggs, half cup cream, a very little flour, a pinch 
of salt. Put in a greased pan and bake. 



56 OMELET, RICE, MACARONI. 

Baked Omelet. — No. 1. 

Beat six eggs very light without separating yolks from 
whites, add half cup milk, one tablespoon melted butter, 
salt to taste, and pepper if desired. Pour into a buttered 
dish, bake until high and brown; serve instantly. 

A plain Omelet. 

Melt one tablespoon butter in a hot pan ; beat together 
four eggs, a tablespoon of milk and a scant teaspoon salt, 
pour this mixture into the hot pan and shake vigorously 
until the Qg^g begins to thicken. Let the bottom brown 
then run a knife around the edge, fold the omelet and 
turn on a hot dish. 

Rice. 

Pick and wash in warm water, put in a sauce pan, cover 
with boiling water, boil fifteen minutes and salt; place a 
lump of butter in the middle and send to the table. 

Macaroni tvith Tomatoes. 

Take one quart of beef soup and ]^ut twelve sticks of 
macaroni in it; boil twenty minutes or until the liquor is 
absorbed; lay in a buttered baking dish, slice one dozen 
tomatoes and spread over the top, cover with one cup but- 
ter, then sprinkle with cracker dust and grated cheese. 
Bake until tomatoes are done. 

Macaroni ivith Oysters. 

Boil one pound macaroni, pour off the water; put in a 
buttered dish a layer of macaroni and oysters alternately, 
a Id butter, pepper and salt, then put grated crackers over 
the top and bits of butter and pour in a cup milk. Bake 
half hour. 



fICKLES. 

French Pickles. 

One colander of sliced green tomatoes, one quart sliced 
onions, one colander of pared and sliced cucumbers, two 
handfuls salt; let all stand twenty 4our hours, then drain 
through a sieve; add half ounce of celery seed, one table- 
spoon tumeric, one pound brown sugar, two tablespoons 
mustard seed, a little cayenne pepper, one gallon vinegar. 
Simmer slowly two or three hours. 

Mustard Picldes. 

Two quarts cucumbers, two quarts green tomatoes, two 
quarts small onions, two quarts cauliflower; soak in a 
weak brine over night, drain, and cook each separately 
till tender. For the paste: one gallon vinegar, one large 
cup flour, one pound mustard, three cups sugar; stir the 
paste until it boils, then pour it over the vegetables. Put 
in jars, keep covered tightly. 

Pickled Cucumbers. 

Wash and wipe the cucumbers and place in stone jars. 
To one gallon of the best cider vinegar, add one teacup 
salt, two red peppers cut fine, one-fourth pound white 
mustard seed, one-fourth ounce ginger-root, a piece of 
alum the size of a butternut, teacup of horseradish root 
not grated, two onions cut in several pieces, cloves or 
other spices may be added if desired. Bring the ingredi- 
ents to a boil, pour over the cucumbers, cover closely and 
they are finished. 



58 PEPPER MANGOES. 

Pickled Eggs. 

Put a few black pepper kernels and two small cayenne 
peppers into enough cider vinegar to cover the eggs; 
break up some sticks of cinnamon and put into a thin 
piece of muslin with a few whole cloves and allspice, tie 
them up and put into the vinegar; while this is cooking 
boil your eggs ten minutes, take out and put in cold 
water, when cold peel and put in a small jar and pour the 
hot vinegar over them; leave the bag of spices in the 
vineofar. When cold cover with cloth first, then with 
paper tied over them. In a week they will be ready for 
use. Serve in slices. 

Tomato Catsup. 

Take tomatoes when fully ripe, wash and slice them, 
put into a jar in alternate layers of tomatoes and salt, let 
them stand four days stirring each day to prevent fer- 
mentation. On the fifth day put into a porcelain kettle, 
boil until reduced to half. To each quart add one tea- 
spoon of mace, two of cloves, two of black pepper, half 
teaspoon cayenne if liked. Bottle and cork tight. 

Currant Catsup. 

Five pounds currants freed from stems, five cups brown 
sugar, one pint vinegar, one tablespoon each of cloves and 
cinnamon, one teaspoon salt. Boil one hour; keep in 
sealed jars in a cool place. 

Pepper Mangoes. 
Take large green peppers, cut a slit in the side, take 
out the seeds and let stand in strong salt brine twenty- 
four hours ; take out and stuff with chopped cabbage, sea- 
son with salt, mustard seed and celery seed; tie together 
again, put in stone jar and cover with scalded vinegar. 
Let stand at least one month. 



©AKE-MAKING. 



Table of WeigMs and Measures. 

1 quart flour 1 pound. 

2 cups butter 1 pound. 

2 cups granulated sugar 1 pound. 

2 cups heaping powdered sugar , , 1 pound. 

1 pint of finely chopped meat packed solidly 1 pound. 

The cup used for these measures must hold half pint. 

Liquids. 

4 tablespoons equal 1 wine glass or half gill. 

8 tablespoons '. equal 1 gill. 

16 tablespoons equal 1/2 pint. 

12 tablespoons equal 1 teacup. 

16 tablespoons equal 1 coffee-cup. 

2 gills equal V2 pint. 

2 pints equal 1 quart. 

4 quarts equal 1 gallon. 

In cake-making use only the best materials. Eggs 
will beat more quickly if placed in cold water a short 
time. Grease cake pans with lard; line the bottom and 
sides of cake tins with paper. Measure the flour before 
sifting unless otherwise stated ; sift the baking powder 
with part of the flour two or three times. 

I can very well recommend the Snow Flake baking 
powder as it makes a very close grained cake, which has . 
the advantage over many others. For measuring ingredi- 
ents use half pint cups. 

In mixing cake the butter and sugar should be beaten 
together until they look like cream ; use a wooden spoon. 
Beat the eggs, yolks and whites separately and add the 



60 OVEN HEAT. 

strained yolks to the butter and sugar, then the whites; 
next add half the milk and when this is well mixed, half 
the flour, then rest of the milk and the remainder of the 
flour containing the baking powder; flavor. This is a 
good rule to follow unless otherwise directed. 

In making fruit cake put in the spices after the butter 
and sugar have been beaten to a cream, mix well ; add the 
fruit after the cake is all mixed. 

To mix velvet sponge cake beat the whites of eggs and 
put into bowl in which you make the cake, then put in 
the strained and beaten yolks and beat lightly together; 
add the sugar and beat thoroughly, now put in part of the 
flour, beating well, stir in half of the boiling water then 
add the rest of the flour containing baking powder beat- 
ing gently and flavor, adding lastly the balance of the hot 
water. Bake immediately. 

In mixing sponge cake proceed as above leaving out 
the water, being careful to beat in gently the flour con- 
taining baking powder. 

Too much care cannot be given to the preparation of 
the oven. The oven may be tested by holding the hand 
inside for twenty or twenty-five seconds, if the heat can 
be borne that length of time the oven is in good order. 
AVhen placed in the stove the cake should be covered 
with a brown paper cap; care should be taken not to re- 
move cake from the oven till done. Test with a knitting 
needle, if the dough does not adhere it is done. 

A few Rules to Test Oven Heat 

Try the oven every ten minutes with a piece of white 
paper; if too hot the paper will blaze up or blacken. 
When the paper becomes a dark brown the oven is fit for 
small pastry; when light brown the color of really nice 
pastry it is ready for tarts, etc. ; when the paper turns 



LOAF CAKES. 



()1 



dark yellow you can bake bread, large meat pies or large 
pound cakes, while if it is just tinged, the oven is fit for 
sponge cake, meringues, etc. 



LOAF CAKES. 



Lady Cake No. 1. 

Two cups white sugar, three cups flour, three-fourths 
cup butter, whipped whites of ten eggs ; flavor with extract 
almond ; one and one-half teaspoons Snow Flake baking 
powder. Bake in square but not very deep tins. Flavor 
the frosting with one-half teaspoon extract vanilla. 

Lady Cake No. 2. 

Two cups sugar, whites of seven eggs, a scant cup 
butter, one cup sweet milk, one cup corn starch, two cups 
flour, two tea spoons Snow Flake baking powder. Flavor 
with one teaspoon extract almond. 

White Delicate Cake. 

Two cups granulated sugar, one-half cup butter, one 
cup cold water, three cups flour, two teaspoons corn starch, 
one tablespoon good whiskey, two teaspoons Snow Flake 
bakiDg powder. The whites of four or five eggs, flavor 
with one teaspoon extract vanilla, lemon or almond. 

Angels Food. 

One and half tumblers of pulverized sugar, one tumbler 
of flour, sift before measuring, whites thirteen eggs ; sift 
flour and sugar thirteen times, of tener the better ; teaspoon 
lemon and vanilla together, tablespoon fresh cream tartar. 
Bake sixty minutes. Alice C. 



62 MARBLE CAKE. 

Brides'' Cake 

Half cup butter, one and half cups sugar, half cup milk, 
whites of six eggs, two and half cups flour, one and a half 
teaspoons Snow Flake baking powder. Flavor with twenty 
drops extract almond. If you wish the cake larger double 
the quantity of ingredients. 

Angel Cake. 

Whites of eleven eggs, one and half tumblers granulat- 
ed sugar, one tumbler flour, half teaspoon extract vanilla. 
Beat the whites very stiff in a large platter; sift sugar 
four times, the last time sift in one teaspoon cream tartar. 
Add the sugar gradually, to the beaten whites, beating 
constantly until it is all mixed in, then add the vanilla. 
Sift in the flour and stir as lightly as possible, bake about 
forty minutes in a moderate oven, when done turn upside 
clown and let cool; then run a knife round the edge and 
tube until it will slip out. The tumbler to hold a little 
more than two gills; ice when cool. Tins made purposly 
for this cake can be obtained. 

Marble Cake. 

White Part. — One cup white sugar, half cup butter, 
half cup milk, whites of three eggs, one and half teaspoons 
Snow Flake baking powder, two cups flour ; flavor to taste. 

Dark Part. — Half cup brown sugar, quarter cup butter, 
half cup molasses, quarter cup milk, half nutmeg, one tea- 
spoon cinnamon, quarter teaspoon cloves, yolks of three 
eggs, two cups flour, one and half teaspoon baking powder. 
Putin cake pan; the dark and light batter in alternate 
tablespoons. 

Cup Cake. 

One cup butter, two of sugar, three and half cups flour, 



FRUIT CAKE. 63 

two teaspoons Sdow Flake baking powder, one cup milk, 
four eggs. Flavor with grated nutmeg. 

BuUer-Cup Cake. 

Yolks three eggs, half cup butter, one cup sugar, one 
and half cups flour, one even teaspoon Snow Flake bak- 
ing powder, one teaspoon vanilla. 

Daisy Cake. 

Whites three eggs, half cup butter, one cup sugar, one 
and half cups flour, one even teaspoon Snow Flake bakino- 
powder, one teaspoon extract lemon. These two cakes 
should be made at the same time; the white cake may 
be frosted with yellow frosting and the butter cup cake 
with white frosting for which see rules for frosting. 

Columbian Pound Cake 1892. 

One and half cups butter, two cups granulated sugar, 
nine eggs, four cups flour, one wine glass of brandy, one 
teaspoon extract lemon, two teaspoons Snow Flake baking 
powder sifted three times with tlie flour. Bake from 
sixty to seventy minutes in moderate oven. 

Annie''s Pound Cake. 

Two cups sugar, one and a quarter cups butter, seven 
eggs, half cup water, half cup brandy or whiskey, one 
teaspoon extract lemon, four cups flour, two teaspoons 
Snow Flake baking powder sifted with the flour three 
times. 

WhUe Fruit Cake. 

One cup butter, two cups whit(i sugar, one cup milk, 
three and half cups flour, save out little to flour the fruit, 
two teaspoons Snow Flake baking powder sifted with 



64 IMPERIAL CAKE. 

part of the flour, whites of seven eggs; beat altogether 
before adding the fruit. Take two cups seeded and chop- 
ped raisins, two of chopped figs, one cup blanched al- 
monds, half cup citron, little cocoanut if desired. Flavor 
with lemon. Bake slowly in moderate oven. 

Fruit Cake. — No. 1. 

One cup butter, two and half cups sugar, six eggs, one 
and half nutmegs, one teaspoon cloves, one of extract 
vanilla, one tablespoon cinnamon, four tablespoons molas- 
ses, one wine glass of brandy, one of sherry wine, four 
cups flour, take out little for flouring fruit, two table- 
spoons of currant jelly or grape jam, five cups seeded 
raisins, one cup currants, one cup sliced citron, one cup 
shell bark kernels, roll rather fine. Dissolve soda the 
size of a large pea in two or three teaspoons warm coffee^ 
stir this into the molasses and add to the batter just be- 
fore putting in the fruit. When all mixed bake two hours- 
ill a moderate oven. 

FruU Cake. — No. 2. 

Two scant cups butter, three cups brown sugar, six 
eggs, four cups seeded raisins, one cup currants, half cup 
citron, half cup molasses, half cup sour milk, half nutmeg, 
one tablespoon ground cinnamon, one teaspoon cloves, 
one teaspoon mace, one wine glass good whiskey, four 
cups sifted flour, one level teaspoon soda dissolved in the 
sour milk, two tablespoons flour for mixing fruit. A lady 
says: "Best recipe of all." 

Imperial Cake. 

Two cups sugar, one and half cups butter, four cups 
flour with two teaspoons Snow Flake baking powder, one 
cup blanched almonds chopped fine, two cups seeded 



CREAM SPONGE CAKE. 65 

raisins, one cup citron sliced fine, one nutmeg, one wine 
glass whiskey or brancly. This cake will keep for 
months. 

Walnut Cake. 

One and half cups sugar, half cup butter, half cup milk, 
three eggs, one and hrJf teaspoon Snow Flake baking 
powder, two cups flour, one cup walnut meats, vanilla 
-flavoring. Add the nut meats broken very fine, last. 

Sponge Cake. 

Two cups sugar, two cups flour, ten eggs, two teaspoons 
Snow Flake baking powder, one teaspoon extract lemon; 
bake in deep pan from thirty to thirty-five minutes. 

Velvet Sponge. 

Four eggs, two cups sugar little scant, two cups flour, 
two teaspoons Snow Flake baking powder, seven table- 
spoons boiling water; flavor with teaspoon extract lemon, 
or vanilla. Excellent. 

Mary's Drop Sponge Cake. 

One cup sugar, one cup flour, four eggs, one small tea- 
spoon Snow Flake baking powder, beat the yolks and 
sugar together; add the whites and flavoring to taste. 
For Lady Fingers they are baked in long narrow strips and 
are nice frosted with chocolate frosting. 

Cream Sponge Cake. 

Two cups sugar, one of cream, two of flour, four eggs, 
one teaspoon Snow Flake baking powder and teaspoon 
-extract lemon. 



66 MAESHMALLOW CAKE. 

LAYER CAKES, 



Ice Cream Cake No. 1.. 

Half cup butter, two cups sugar, one cup milk, three 
cups flour, two teaspoons cornstarch, two teaspoons Snow 
Flake baking powder, whites of five eggs, twenty drops 
extract almond. Bake in two long pans. Filling — boil 
three cups sugar in twelve tablespoons water, until it wall 
gum in cold water; then pour it slowly over the beaten 
whites of three eggs, beating all the time. Flavor with 
half teaspoon extract vanilla ; spread while warm between. 
Make the top layer the thickest. • 

Ice Cream Cake No. 2. 

Make white cake and. bake in jelly cake tins. Filling — 
One pint w^hipped cream, sweeten and flavor to taste, chop 
fine two cups blanched almonds, stir in the cream and put 
in thick layers, betw^een the cake. 

Marshmallow Cake. 

Half cup butter, two cups powdered sugar, three cups 
sifted flour, two teaspoons Snow Flake baking powder, 
half cup milk, whites of five eggs, half teaspoon vanilla. 
Bake in jelly cake tins. Filling — Make boiled icing of one 
cup sugar, five tablespoons water and the beaten whites of 
two eggs. Put in a moderate oven, quarter pound marsh- 
mallo'ws, when thoroughly softened (care must be taken 
they do not brown )^beat them into the icing. The marsh- 
mallows should be added before the icing cools. Use no 
flavoring. Spread between layers, plain icing for the top. 

M. P. A., Mt. Yernon, Ohio. 

English Walnut. 
Three eggs, four tablespoons butter, two cups sugar, 



WHITE MOUNTAIN CAKE. 67 

one cup milk, three of flour, two teaspoons Snow Flake 
baking powder, flavor to taste; bake in three layers. 
Frosting — Four whites of eggs, nine teaspoons pulverized 
sugar, to each white beat about five minutes, one pound 
English walnuts, save out enough whole half pieces to put 
on top and take the rest and chop fine and put in two-thirds 
of the icing, put between layers. This frosting is also 
nice put in white cake if preferred. Hickory nuts can 
be used. 

Fig Cake. 

White Part. — Two cups sugar, two-thirds cup butter, 
two-thirds cup milk, three cups sifted flour, two teaspoons 
Snow Flake baking powder, whites of eight eggs, mix and 
bake in two layers. 

Yellow Pari. — One cup sugar, half cup butter, half cup 
milk, yolks of seven eggs and one whole one, one and half 
cups flour, one teaspoon baking powder ; flavor with cinna- 
mon. Put half the yellow batter into a pan corresponding 
to the pans the white cakes were baked in, put over this 
batter a layer of figs cut in halves. Dust a little flour 
over, put in rest of the batter and bake. When done put 
the gold cake between the two white layers with a little 
icing between each of the layers, ice the whole cake if 

desired. 

White Mountain Cake. 

Two cups sugar, whites eight eggs, two-thirds cup but- 
ter, half cup milk, one cup cornstarch, one cup flour, one 
and half teaspoons Snow Flake baking' powder, one tea- 
spoon extract lemon. Bake in jelly cake tins. Frosting — 
Two cups grated cocoanut steeped in half cup new milk 
until tender; beat whites of four eggs, one cup white 
sugar, one tablespoon cornstarch; add the steeped cocoa- 
nut, stir altogether and spread over the cakes; pile up 



68 MAPLE SUGAR CAKE. 

alternately cocoanut and cakes until the cakes are all 
used, and last spread the remaining cocoanut over the top 
and sides of the cake and sprinkle dry cocoanut. over all. 
Mrs. H, D. McC, Ft. Madison, Iowa. 

Cream Cake. 

One and half cups pulverized sugar, half cup butter, 
half small cup of milk, whites of five eggs beaten stiff, 
two good cups flour, two small teaspoons Snow Flake bak- 
ing powder. Flavor with half teaspoon vanilla. Bake in 
pie tins and cut in two for filling. 

Filling. — One large cup cream, small tablespooii corn- 
starch, one tablespoon sugar, cooked in water. When cool 
and done add half cup cream beaten stiff', any flavoring; 
stir well and put between cake. For the frosting make 
boiled icing of one cup sugar and one Qgg. 

Chocolate Cake. 

Two cups sugar, one of butter, the yolks of five eggs 
and whites of two, one cap milk, three and half cups 
flour, two teaspoons Snow Flake baking powder: flavor to 
taste. 

Mixture for Filling. — The whites of three eggs, one 
and half cups sugar, three tablespoons grated chocolate, 
one teaspoon extract vanilla. Beat well and spread be- 
tween the layers and on top. 

Maple Sugar Cake. 

Two cups brown sugar, half cup butter, half cup milk, 
two and half cups flour, one teaspoon Snow Flake baking 
powder, three eggs. 

Filling. — Six tablespoons shaved maple sugar; add very 
little water and boil until it strings from spoon ; when 
cool add the white of one egg whipped and one or two 
tablespoons chocolate; use this between the layers. 



SPONGE CAKE. 69 

Neapoliian CaJxe. 

White Part, — Two cups sugar, two tablespoons butter, 
two cups flour, whites six eggs, two teaspoons Snow Flake 
baking powder, one grated cocoanut, one cup citron chop- 
ped fine, two cups blanched almonds cut in very thin 
slices. Flavor with one teaspoon extract almond. Bake 
in three jelly cake pans. 

Dark Part. — One cup sugar, half cup butter, two cups 
flour, two teaspoons baking powder, yolks six eggs; add 
two cups seeded raisins, half cup each citron and figs, one 
teaspoon cloves, one nutmeg, one wine glass of good 
whiskey. Bake in jelly pans. 

Icing. — Three cups sugar, six tablespoons hot water, 
boil till brittle and stir in the whites of three e^Q-s, add 
half teacup each of minced almonds and grated cocoanut, 
spread alternately on the dark and white cake and put 
together. Ice the top with plain icing. This is elegant. 

Lemon Sponge Cake. 

Six eggs, three cups sugar, four cups sifted flour, two 
teaspoons Snow Flake baking powder, one cup cold water, 
one lemon. Mix quickly; bake in jelly pans, six layers. 

Filling. — Two grated lemons, juice and rind, half cup 
butter, two cups sugar and the whites of six eggs, let 
boil a few minutes, spread when cool. Orange can be 
used the same way. 

Almond Sponge Cake. 

Whites of ten eggs, one goblet of flour, one and half 
goblets sugar, one teaspoon cream tartar. Bake in two 
jelly cake tins. Sift the sugar once; flour and cream 
tartar four times. For the custard. — One cup cream or 
milk; boil it and stir in three well beaten yolks, two 



70 SMALL CAKES. 

tablespoons sugar, one teaspoon cornstarch dissolved in 
cold milk. Boil until thick; when cool add one cup of 
blanched almonds chopped fine, saving out two dozen to 
put on top. After putting the cream between the cakes 
ice the top with one egg, a small cup of sugar and a very 
little bitter almond, then ornament with whole almonds. 

Roll Jelly Cake. 

Four eggs, one cup sugar, one cup flour, one teaspoon 
Snow Flake baking powder, small teaspoon extract lemon. 
This will make two cakes, spread thin on long tins. As 
soon as baked turn from tins and spread over jelly, roll 
immediately in damp cloth. 



SMALL CAKES. 



Aunt' ElizcCs Jumbles No. 1. 

Half cup lard, half cup butter, two cups sugar, beat to 

a cream, add the beaten yolks of three eggs, into this grate 

a little nutmeg, add to this one cup sour milk in which 

one teaspoon soda has been dissolved. Stir in the beaten 

whites of eggs, then work in sufficient flour to make a soft 

dough, it may take six cups, roll out and cut with cake 

cutter. 

Jumbles No. 2. 

One cup butter, two cups sugar, beaten to a cream, four 
eggs, three-quarters cup sweet milk, one teaspoon extract 
vanilla, three teaspoons Snow Flake baking powder. Flour 
enough to make a soft dough, roll thin and bake in hot 

oven. 

Spiced Gingerbread. 

One cup sugar, cne cup molasses, three-fourths cup 



DOUGHNUTS. 71 

batter, two eggs, two teaspoous Snow Flake Baking pow- 
der, half cup coffee, two teaspoons extract ginger, two tea- 
spoons cinnamon, one of cloves. Flour for rather a stiff 

batter. Mabel W. 

Gingerbread of 1827. 

One cup sugar, one cup molasses, half cup lard, three 
eggs, small teaspoon cloves, one teaspoon extract of gin- 
ger, one teaspoon soda dissolved in half cup warm coffee, 
and flour to made as thick as pound cake. 

Sponge Gingerbread. 

One cup molasses, one cup brown sugar, one cup sour 
milk, two eggs, half cup lard, one teaspoon extract of 
ginger, one teaspoon soda dissolved in the milk, three and 
a half to four cups flour. 

Ginger Cakes. 

Three eggs, one and half cups molasses, one and half 
cups sugar, half cup lard, halt' cup sour milk, a good tea- 
spoon soda dissolved in the milk, two teaspoons extract of 
ginger; work well with sufficient flour to roll out; cut in 

cakes. 

Ginger Snaps. 

One large cup butter and lard mixed, one coffee cup 
sugar, one cup molasses, half cup water, one tablespoon 
ginger, one of cinnamon, one teaspoon cloves, one teaspoon 
soda dissolved in hot water. Flour for pretty stiff dough. 
Boll out thin. 

Doughnuis No. 1. 

One and half small tea-cups butter, four cups light 
brown sugar, four eggs beaten separately, one large pint 
sour milk, one teaspoon soda dissolved in the milk, a little 
grated nutmeg. Mix like pound cake. 

Mrs. S. a, St. PaaL 



72 FILLINGS FOR CAKES. 

Douglinuis No. 2. 

Two cups sugar, two teaspoons butter, three eggs, one 
cup sour milk, teaspoon soda, spice to taste. Flour to roll. 

Jimmy^s Donglmids. 

One and half cups sugar, one tablespoon butter, one cup 
milk, two eggs, one and half teaspoons Snow Flake baking 
powder, little nutmeg. Flour to roll; fry in hot lard. 
These are nice. 

NecVs Donghnids. 

One cup sugar, two tablespoons butter, three eggs, two 
teaspoons Snow Flake baking powder, one cup milk, nut- 
meg to taste. 



FILLINGS FOR CAKES. 



FruU Filling. 

Four tablespoons of very fine chopped citron, four 
tablespoons of finely chopped seeded raisins, half cup 
blanched almonds chopped fine, also two tablespoons finely 
chopped figs. Beat the whites of three eggs to a stiff 
froth adding half cup sugar, then mix into this the whole 
of the chopped ingredients. Put it between the layers of 
cake when the cake is hot so that it will cook the Qgg a 
little. This will be found delicious. 

Peach Cream Filling. 

Cut peaches in thin slices, or chop; prepare cream by 
whipping and sweetening. Put a layer of peaches be- 
tween layers of cake and pour cream over each layer and 



FILLINGS. 73 

over the top. Bananas, strawberries and other fruits 
may be used in the same way; mashing strawberries and 
sprinkling with powdered sugar. 

Chocolate Filling. 

Bakers chocolate square, yolks two eggs, one cup sugar, 
one-third cup boiled milk. Stir the chocolate and sugar 
into the boiling milk, then add the eggs well beaten; sim- 
mer ten minutes. Flavor with extract vanilla. Let it 
cool before using. 

Cream Filling. 

One pint cream beaten stiff, six tablespoons sugar, 
whites of two eggs beaten stiff; mix. Flavor with vanilla. 



ICINGS AND SAUCES fOR ©AKES AND 
PUDDING. ICE CREAM. 



Boiled Icing. — No. 1. 

Boil one cup granulated sugar with four tablespoons 
hot water until it drops from the spoon in threads, have 
ready the beaten white of one o^gg and pour the syrup 
over it slowly, beating all the time; flavor. Put on cake 
while warm. 

Boiled Icing. — No. 2. 

Dissolve two cups sugar in three tablespoons water and 
boil until brittle. Beat the whites of four eggs, pour over 
the hot sugar and stir; flavor and use while hot. 

Chocolafe Icing. 

Melt three tablespoons chocolate dissolve in little water, 
boil in two cups sugar, in which stir the whites of three 
eggs, well beaten. Flavor with vanilla to taste. 

Icing for Cake. 

To the white of one Qgg, beaten, stir six tablespoons 
powdered sugar. Cake must be cold before being used. 

Almond Icing. 

Whites of three eggs beaten to a froth, one cup blanch- 
ed almonds chopped fine, ten tablespoons pulverized sugar. 
Flavor with bitter almonds. 



SAUCES. 75 

Cocoanut Iciyig. 

Whites of three eggs, twelve tablespoons sugar, one 
grated cocoanut. Beat sugar and eggs together; spread 
on the cake and sprinkle the cocoanut over thickly This 
will make a whiter frosting than stirring in the cocoanut. 

Orange Icing. 

^ Whites of two eggs, twelve tablespoons sugar, two 
oranges grated. 

Water Icing. 

Two cups sugar, add water enough to form a thick 
paste; beat well; if too thin add more sugar, a pinch of 
cream tartar. 

Yellow Frosting. 

Yolk of one ^gg^ ten tablespoons sugar cr enough to 
stiffen. Flavor with vanilla. 

Pmhliug Sauce. — No. 1. 

Whites two eggs, two-thirds cup sugar, beaten together ; 
add teacup boiling milk. Flavor to taste. 

Pudding Sauce. — xVo. 2. 

Mix the yolks of four eggs, four tablespoons sugar, 
one of flour, two cups milk; set on fire and stir until thick. 
Flavor with nutmeg. 

Cold Sauce. 

One cup butter, one cup sugar, beaten to a froth. 
Flavor to suit taste. 

Brandy Sauce. 

Beat the yolks of five eggs with one cup sugar until 
light, add quarter cup butter that has been beaten to a 



76 SAUCES. 

cream, add one pint boiling water; stir until it thickens, 
take from fire and add half cup brandy. 

Caramel Sauce. 

Put one cup sugar in a small frying pan and stir on 
the fire until a dark brown. Add a cup boiling water 
and simmer about twenty minutes. 

Lemon Sauce. 

One large cup sugar, nearly half cup butter, one ^gg, 
one lemon, juice and half the grated rind, one nutmeg, 
three tablespoons boiling water, cream, butter and sugar, 
beat in the egg whipped lightly, the lemon and nutmeg, 
beat hard ten minutes; add one spoon at a time boiling 
water, put in tin pail and set within the uncovered top of 
tea kettle, which must be kept boiling until the steam 
heats the sauce very hot, but not to boiling. Stir con- 
stantly. 

Hard Sauce. 

The whipped whites of six eggs, add two cups sugar, 

half cup creamed butter. Flavor with extract rose or to 

taste. 

Foaming Sauce. 

Whites three eggs, melt a tea cup sugar in little water, 
let boil, stir in one glass of wine and then the eggs. 

Wine Sauce. — No. 1. 

Ten tablespoons of water, six of sugar, eight of wine, 
four of butter; stir to a cream then add little boiling 
water just before wanted for the table. 

Wine Sauce. — No. 2. 

One cup butter, yolks of two beaten eggs, nine table- 
spoons of brown sugar, two glasses of wine. Let simmer 
on fire a short time. 



WHIPPED CREAM. 77 

Cream Sauce. 

One pint cream, one cup sugar, tablespoon butter, one 
glass wine. Beat altogether. 

Rock Cream. 

Boil one cup rice till soft, in milk sweetened with white 
sugar and pile on a dish, lay on it in different places 
square pieces of currant jelly. Beat the whites of five 
eggs with little powdered sugar, flavor with vanilla, add 
to this when beaten two tablespoons rich cream. 

Jelly Cream. 

Beat the whites of six eggs to a froth, add gradually 

six tablespoons powdered sugar, beating not less than 

thirty minutes, then beat in one cup jelly, cut in small 
pieces, serve in glass dishes. 

Whipped Cream. 

One pint sweet cream, sweetened to taste, one te'aspoon 
vanilla or other flavoring. Put the cream in a bowl and 
beat with a wheel egg beater until thick ; then sweeten and 
flavor, the cream will beat better if cold. The whites of 
three eggs beaten to a stiff froth, may be added. This 
makes a lovely dessert. Different jellies or fruit may be 
served with it. 

Frosted Custard. 

Make custard, let cool and pile on it, cocoanut grated 
and powdered sugar. Eat with lemon jelly cake. 

Substitute for Cream. 

Boil three-fourths pint sweet milk, beat the yolk of 
one egg and a level teaspoon flour, with sugar enough to 
make the cream very sweet; when the milk boils stir this 



78 ICE CREAM. 

into it and let it cool. Flavor to taste. This is almost 
as good as rich cream for puddings. 

Suhstitufe for Cream for Coffee. 

Beat well the yolks of two eggs and stir tiiem into one 
pint milk, add a little sugar about tablespoon ; place over 
fire stirring in one direction until it is the consistency of 
cream. After it is cold add some cream if you have it. 

Ice Cream. — No. 1. 

Take three quarts milk, one quart cream, four cups 
sugar, six eggs; scald the milk in a kettle of water, add 
one tablespoon flour to each quart of milk; yolks of the 
eggs well beaten and the sugar; when cold the whites of 
the eggs whipped to a froth, also cream beaten. Strain 
the whole and flavor to taste. 

Ice Cream. — No. 2. 

Take four quarts cream, four cups sugar, stir well to- 
gether, add half teaspoon bitter almonds and extract 
vanilla to taste. Strain and freeze. 

Ice Cream. — No. 3. 

One quart cream, one cup sugar, whites of five eggs, 
beat altogether; flavor with vanilla and freeze. 

Strawberry Ice Cream. 

Two quarts cream, two of ripe strawberries and three 
cups sugar; let stand two hours and strain, add another 
cup sugar then freeze. 

Peach Ice Cream. 

Take ripe peaches, to each quart after being mashed, 
add one pint cream, one pint milk, half box gelatine, dis- 
solved and mixed in. Sweeten to taste and freeze. 



ICE CREAM. 79 

Caramel Ice Cream. 

Put two pints of brown sugar in a skillet and stir until 
dissolved, mix in one pint boiling milk, cool and strain, 
pour it in two quarts cream. Some like little vanilla 
flavoring. 

Banana Ice Cream. 

One quart cream, six bananas, one and half cups sugar, 
the beaten yolks of three eggs, one pint water. Boil the 
sugar and water together twenty minutes, rub the bananas 
through a seive and add to the boiling syrup, add also 
the yolks of eggs and cook for six minutes, stirring all the 
time. Take from the fire and place in a pan of cold water, 
beat the mixture ten minutes. If cold at that lenofth of 
time, add the cream and freeze. For May. 



BOILED, BAKED AND STEAMED 
PUDDING. 



Quick Puff Pudding. 

Sift togetlier, one pint flour, one heaping teaspoon Snow^ 
Flake baking powder, a little salt, add milk enough ta 
make a stiff batter. Place in a steamer, five well greased 
cups, put in each one a spoonful of batter, then one of 
berries, apples or any other sauce convenient, cover witli 
another spoonful batter, steam half hour. Eat with the 
following sauce. 

Sauce — To one pint boiling water add one tea cup sugar^ 
tablespoon butter, pinch salt, tablespoon cornstarch, dis- 
solved in cold water, flavor with nutmeg or vanilla and boil 
half hour. 

Bciked Cusicird. 

One quart milk, six eggs, one cup sugar, vanilla to 
taste. Boil the milk; when nearly cool add the sugar,, 
eggs and flavoring. Bake in pudding dish in a slow oven 
till done. Try it by slipping a spoon handle into the 
edge; If the milk does not follow the spoon the custard is 
set and remove at once from the oven. J. W. C 

Bice Pudding. 

Boil one and half cups rice, then add three cups milk, 
three fourths cup sugar, half glass wine, quarter cup 
butter, half cup seeded raisins, half of sliced citron. 



PUDDINGS. 81 

Beat five eggs, leave out the whites of three and mix in; 
pour over half cup brandy, put in pan and bake one hour. 
Make a meringue of the three whites whipped to a froth, 
and three tablespoons sugar flavored with nutmeg. Eat 
without sauce. 

Delicious Pudding. 

One quart milk, one pint bread crumbs, one cup white 
sugar, yolks of four eggs, small piece of butter, a little 
salt. Bake as a custard, cover with any kind of fruit, 
then beat the whites to a cream, add tablespoon sugar, 
spread over and brown. 

Orange Pudding. 

Pare and slice four large oranges, take out the seeds, 
put in bottom of pudding dish with a cup of sugar ; boil 
one pint of milk, and stir in two tablespoons cornstarch 
wet with a little cold milk; add yolks of two eggs, beaten 
with half cup of sugar; boil one minute and pour over 
oranges. Make a meringue of whites of two eggs, three 
tablespoons powdered sugar; brown slightly. If you 
want a large pudding double the quantity. 

Cocoanui Pudding. 

One cup sugar, five eggs, one quart milk, one cocoanut 
grated. Boil the milk and add the eggs, well beaten and 
the sugar and cocoanut. Bake till set ; if more convenient 
jou can use one and half cups dessicated cocoanut and 
lialf cup sugar. 

Prune Pudding. 

Stew one and half pounds prunes, take out the seeds and 
•chop rather fine. Beat the whites of six eggs, add one 
.cup white sugar, gradually beating all the time, then stir 



82 PUDDINGS. 

in the chopped prunes, bake twenty minutes. Serve cold 
with whipped cream aud wine. Delicious. 

Peach Pudding. 

Fill a pudding dish with whole peaches pared, pour 
over them, two cups water, cover closely and bake until 
peaches are tender, then drain off the juice from the 
peaches, let stand until cool. Add to the juice one pint 
milk, four well beaten eggs, a small cup of flour with one 
teaspoon Snow Flake baking powder mixed in it, one cup 
sugar, one tablespoon melted butter and a little salt. Beat 
well three or four minutes and pour over peaches, bake 
until a rich brown. Serve with cream. 

Peach Tapioca Pudding. 

One dozen peaches, one cup tapioca, one cup white 
sugar. Soak tapioca in cold water three hours; put on 
the stove until it boils. Add the sugar, pare and slice the 
peaches, sprinkle with sugar and pour the tapioca over 
them. Bake slowly one hour. Serve wdth cream. 

Coitage Pudding. 

One cup sugar, one of milk, one tablespoon butter, two 
eggs, one and half teaspoons Snow Flake baking powder; 
bake in one loaf in buttered tin. Sauce: — One cup sugar, 
half cup butter, half cup wine, one egg, cream, butter and 
sugar; add the egg and beat very light. 

Graham Pudding. 

One cup sugar, one cup sweet milk, one cup chopped 
raisins, two scant cups Graham flour, one egg, one and 
half teaspoons Snow Flake baking powder, nutmeg, one 
teaspoon salt. Steam three hours; serve with lemon 
sauce. 



PUDDINGS. 83 

Plum Pudding. — No. 1. 

Nine eggs, three cups stoned raisins, one cup currants, 
half cup citron, cut fine; flour the fruit; one tablespoon 
brown sugar, three cups sweet milk, flour to make thick 
batter, two and half teaspoons Snow Flake baking powder, 
a little salt, half nutmi^g, two tablespoons chopped suet. 
Boil in pudding bag five hours and leave space of six 
inches to swell. Before putting mixture into the bag 
rinse it in cold water and flour well inside. When pud- 
ding is done plunge into cold water for an instant, then 
remove the cloth. Serve with brandy sauce. 

Plum Pudding. — No. 2. 

Four eggs, one cup chopped suet, two cups seeded 
raisins, one cup currants, half cup sugar, two and half 
cups flour, one cup sweet milk, one and half teaspoons 
Snow Flake baking powder, pinch of salt, one teaspoon 
cinnamon, quarter teaspoon cloves, half nutmeg grated. 
Put all the ingredients in a bowl with the yolks of eggs 
well beaten. Add part of the whites and flour alternately. 

Cream Pudding. 

One pint sour cream, one pint stoned raisins, half cup 
citron, three well beaten eggs, half nutmeg, pinch of salt, 
one level teaspoon soda dissolved in the cream, one cup 
brown sugar, flour to make stitf batter, three tablespoons 
good whiskey. Boil steadily one and half hours. Serve 
with brandy sauce. 

Harry s Cherry Pudding. 

Four eggs, half cup butter, one pint milk, flour to make 
thick batter, one and half teaspoons Snow Flake baking 
powder, half teaspoon salt, one cup stoned cherries. Boil 
in pudding bag and eat with sauce. 



84 ROLLY POOLY. 

Baked Dumplings. 

One quart flour, two teaspoons Snow Flake baking pow- 
der, half teaspoon salt, mixed together. Add one large 
tablespoon butter and lard mixed and enough sweet milk 
or water to make a soft dough, roll out into thin sheets, 
Pare and quarter some good tart apples. Put each 
quarter on a square of dough, sprinkle over it sugar and 
press the edges together firmly. Place in a deep pan 
and put a bit of butter on each. Fill the pan with water 
(boiling) just leaving top of dumplings uncovered. Serve 
with sweetened cream or hard sauce. These are little 
beauties. 

Apple Pudding. 

One quart chopped apples, one pint flour, in which has 
been sifted one heaping teaspoon Snow Flake baking 
powder, half teaspoon salt, one pint new milk, four eggs. 
Bake and serve with sauce. 

Flour Pudding. 

One pint milk, four eggs, whites and yolks beaten 
separately, two even cups of flour, one and half teaspoons 
Snow Flake baking powder, half teaspoon salt; bake in 
buttered dish three-quarters of an hour. Serve as soon as it 
is taken from oven, eat with sweetened cream and nutmeg. 

Orange Roily Poohj. 

Make a light paste as for apple dumplings, roll out in 
a long sheet and lay sweet oranges peeled, sliced and seed- 
ed thickly all over it, sprinkle with white sugar and roll 
up closely, folding down the ends to secure the syrup. 
Boil in a pudding cloth one and half hours. Eat with 
lemon sauce. 



CREAMED BANANAS. 85 

A Summer Day Desseri. 

Slice half dozen bananas,* pour over them the juice of 
one lemon, well sweetened with pulverized sugar. 

May. 

Creamed Bananas. 

Slice the bananas and strew with sugar, whip one cup of 
cream very light, whip the white of 'an egg to stiff froth. 
Put Qgg and cream together with a tablespoon sugar ; pour 
over the bananas. Peaches are nice served the same 
way. 

7 



fUFF PASTES A|JD PIES. 

Puff Pasfe. 

Four Clips sifted flour, two of Inittei folded in a cloth 
and pressed to remove the moisture: sift the flour on a 
board in the centre, squeeze the juice of a lemon and add 
the beaten yolk of an ^gg, stir and pour^in ice water until 
the paste is stiff; roll out smooth, spread the butter over 
half the paste, lay the other half over and put on ice fif- 
teen minutes, then roll out and double in three parts, on 
which spread butter and fold over; handle as little as 
possible and keep on ice until ready to use. 

Plain Pie Crust. 

Four cups flour, one cup lard, ^half teaspoon salt, one 
small teaspoon Snow Flake baking powder, water to make 
into stiff dough. 

Pule for an Under Crusf. 

A good rule for pie requiring only an under crust: three 
large tablespoons of flour sifted, rubbing into it a large 
tablespoon of cold butter or part butter and part lard and 
a pinch of salt, mixing with cold water enough to form a 
smooth paste and rolled quite thin. 

An casu Meihod for One Pie. 

One heaping cup flour, half teaspoon Snow Flake bak- 
ing powder, half teaspoon salt, quarter cup lard, quarter 
cup butter: mix salt with flour and rub in lard; mix stiff 
with cold water, roll out ; put the butter on the paste in 



PIES. 87 

pieces the size of beans and sprinkle with flour. Fold 
over and roll to fit the plate. For Emma. 

Lemon Pie. — Xo. 1. 

Juice and rind of two lemons, two cups sugar, six eggs, 
two cups milk, two tablespoons flour: smooth the flour in 
little milk, scald the rest of the milk and add to it the 
thickening. Beat the yolks of the eggs and sugar to- 
gether, add these to the milk. Add the grated rind and 
juice of the lemons. Bake in deep plates lined with 
undercrust; when done frost with the beaten whites mix- 
ed with four tablespoons sugar. Brown the frosting 
lightly. 

Lemon Pie. — Xo. 2. 

Two soda crackers, two lemons, one and half cups 
sugar, two eggs, one and half cups boiling water. EoU 
crackers fine, place in bowl, pour on boiling water, cover 
with plate; when cold add eggs beaten, sugar, grated 
rind of one, and juice of both lemons. Bake between two 
crusts in a quick oven twenty-five minutes. 

Cream Pie — Xo. 1. 

One pint cream, yolks of three eggs, seven tablespoons 
sugar, one teaspoon butter, one small teaspoon cornstarch, 
whites of five eggs and five dessert spoons of powdered 
sugar for meringue, vanilla flavoring, stir butter and sugar 
together, beat the cornstarch into the yolks of the eggs 
until smooth, then stir these two compounds together. 
Add one teaspoon vanilla and lastly put in the cream, 
little at a time stirring well between. Fill a shell of puff 
paste and bake until set over with meringue, return to the 
oven to bake a delicate brown. 

Cream Pie — Xo. 2. 

Two eggs, one cup maple sugar grated and stirred to- 



88 PIES. 

gether. Acid as much sweet cream as pie dish will hold; 
bake with one crust. 

Orange Pie. 

Beat one cup full of powdered sugar and large table- 
spoon butter together, moisten two even tablespoons of 
cornstarch with a little cold milk and then stir into it one 
cup boiling milk, cook and stir one moment, then pour it 
quickly on the butter and sugar, add the grated yellow 
rind and the juice of an orange, mix and add one &gg well 
beaten. Peel another large orange, cut into thin slices, 
and then cut each slice into four pieces, line a pie-plate 
with light paste and bake in quick oven until done. Stir 
the orange slices quickly into the custard mixture, fill the 
baked crust with this, and place in a quick oven a few 
minutes to brown. While it is browning, beat the whites 
of two eggs until light, add two tablespoons of powdered 
sugar and beat until stitf, spread this over the pie, dust 
thickly with powdered sugar and stand again in the oven 
until lightly colored. 

Ciisfard Fie. 

Four eggs, one quart of milk, one tablespoon flour, half 
cup sugar. Bake with under crust only. 

Peach Pie. 

Take ripe peaches, w^ash and wipe, but do not pare them, 
cut in half, but do not extract stones, place between two 
crusts with plenty of sugar. The flavor is very fine. 

Cream Peach Pie. 

Pare ripe peaches and remove the stones, have pie dishes 
lined with a good paste, fill with the peaches, strew these 
with sugar and lay the upper crust on lightly, slightly 



PIES. 89 

buttering the lower crust around the edge of pie; when 
the pie is done, lift the cover and pour in a cream made 
thus: one small cup milk heated, whites of two eggs 
whipped and stirred into the milk, one tablespoon sugar, 
half teaspoon cornstarch wet in milk, boil three minutes, 
put in the hot pie when the cream is cold, replace the crust 
and set by to cool. Eat fresh. 

Gooseherrij Pie. 

Line pie-tin w^ith paste, sprinkle with little flour, then 
sugar, fill with gooseberries and make very sweet with 
sugar on top, cover with crust and bake. 

Cocoanid Pie. 

One cup white sugar, two cups new milk, three table- 
spoons flour, one cocoanut grated fine, two eggs, one table- 
spoon butter; flavor with nutmeg; bake with one crust. 
For two pies. 

Pumpkin Pie. 

One pint stewed pumpkin, three eggs; sweeten with 
sugar to taste, one pint cream or rich milk, a little salt, 
season wdth cinnamon and ginger. Bake with one crust. 

Cracker Pie. 

One lemon, one cup chopped raisins, one of water, one 
cup rolled crackers, scald the raisins, add one cup sugar 
and bake in puff paste. 

Mince Pie. 

Take one and half pints chopped boiled meat, two and 
a half pints chopped apples, one and half pints of sugar, 
three-fourths of a pint of vinegar, half pint of broth in 
which the meat was boiled, a large half pint raw beef suet 
finely chopped, half pint brandy, two cups of seeded raisins. 



90 CUSTARDS, BOILED. 

five teaspoons ground cinnamon and three-fourths tea- 
spoon ground cloves ; mix all well together. It is well only 
to put in half the brandy when mixing then add one or two 
tablespoons in each pie just before it is baked. For six 
pies. 



eUSTARDS BOILED. 



Boiled Custard. 

One quart new milk, six eggs, one cup sugar, one tea- 
spoon vanilla. Heat the milk boiling hot, beat the sugar 
and eggs, pour the boiling milk over them, and return to 
the fire, let boil, stir to keep from burning, when thick 
pour in a bowl to cool. Fill custard cups and cover with 
meringue made by whipping the whites of three eggs 
wath currant jelly. 

Sahyllon. 

Yolks of ten eggs or more, four tablespoons sherry wine 
to an egg, two tablespoons sugar to an egg. Mix and boil 
in a double kettle stirring constantly. Serve in small 
cups with white cake. 

Orange Cusiard. 

Peal and cut in small pieces four large oranges, put in 
a dish with one cup sugar, beat the yolks of three eggs, 
half cup sugar and two tablespoons cornstarch, pour this 
in one quart boiling milk, when it thickens, set away to 
cool, then stir in the oranges; beat the whites to a froth 
and pour over top. Serve cold. 



JELLIES, MARMALADES AND 

JAMS. 



Quince Jelly. 

Take one and half dozen quinces, cut in slices and pour 
cold water over them and let boil till nearly done, then 
add one dozen sour juicy apples pared and cut up. When 
quinces and apples are soft, strain through a jelly bag; 
now measure to each pint of the strained juice one pint 
of sugar. Set aside the sugar, put the juice on the fire 
and boil twenty minutes, then add the sugar and boil fif- 
teen or twenty minutes. Put in jelly glasses and cover 
when cold. 

Currant Jcllfj. — Ko. J. 

Stem the currants, put in a kettle and mash, add one 
teacup of water to every gallon of currants; soon as fruit 
is soft strain. Allow to each pint of juice one pint of 
sugar, boil the juice twenty minutes then stir in the sugar 
and boil twenty minutes. This jelly keeps any length of 
time; the water prevents it from being so strong. 

Currant Jelly. — No. 2. 

Wash currants, mash in a porcelain dish, squeeze 
through jelly bag, rinse out bag, run the juice through 
again without squeezing, then to every pint of juice, add 
one pint sugar; while boiling skim and boil twenty min- 
utes. An excellent jelly is made by taking one- third 



92 PEACH MARMALADE. 

currants, two-thirds red raspberries and .proceeding as 
above. 

Blackberry, Strawberry or Raspberry Jelly. 

Crush the berries, strain the juice with one pint sugar 
to a pint of juice, boil. 

Cranberry Jelly. 

Put cranberries in a kettle with very little water, stew 
till soft, then strain, add one pint of sugar to each pint of 
jelly. Boil twenty minutes. 

Blackberry or Raspberry Ja^n. 

Boil the berries with a very little water, add one pint of 
currant or plum juice to a gallon of berries, when thor- 
oughly done, add one pint of sugar to every pint of fruit ; 
boil until thick If tart juice is not used in the berries, 
take only three quarters pint of sugar to one pint of fruit. 

Quince Marmalade. 

Take equal quantities of quinces and good sour apples, 
pare and core each, quarter quinces, put in kettle, cover 
well with water and boil till moderately soft, add apples 
and cook until all is soft; boil the parings and good cores 
in separate water until done, strain into fruit; next press 
the whole through a colander, now measure, and take one 
pint of sugar to each pint of fruit, return to the fire and 
boil slowly half an hour, then stir in sugar and boil one 
hour, moderately. Put in glass JRrs. You will find this 
excellent. Many persons do not boil their fruit long 
enough to keep well. 

Peach Marmalade. 
Take the fruit, wipe and cut out defects, put in a kettle 



PEACH ^L\RMALADE. 95 

and cover with water, and let boil gently until soft, then 
remove from fire, take out the seeds and pass the fruit 
through a colander, then measure ; to each pint of fruit 
take one pint of sugar, return fruit to the fire, boil gently 
half an hour, then add the sugar and boil from three- 
quarters to an hour. Put in small glass or stone jars, 
cover with three thicknesses of white paper, the first dip- 
ped in brandy or whiskey, sprinkle thickly on top layer 
with sugar to prevent moulding. Cover the whole tightly. 
This is very fine. 



DESSERTS. 



Banana Pudding. 

Half box gelatine, two cups sugar, one quart milk, five 
bananas, desolve gelatine in cup cold water, thin the gela- 
tine with little hot milk, strain it and add the rest of the 
milk. Let it simmer upon back of the stove ten minutes, 
pour into a bowl to cool. Stir the bananas which must be 
pealed and cut in small pieces into the mixture after it 
has cooled, (but not stiffened.) Make the day before it 
is to be used, to give time to harden. Serve with one 
pint whipped cream, sweetened if desired. 

Bidiercnp Jelly. 

Half box gelatine soaked in one cup cold water, heat 
one pint milk and stir the gelatine in, beat the yolks of 
three eggs with one heaping cup of sugar and a small 
pinch of soda. Flavor with teaspoon extract vanilla, boil 
three minutes, whip the white of an Qgg and beat into the 
jelly. Serve with plain or whipped cream. 

Snow Custard. 

Take half package gelatine, three eggs, tw^o cups sugar 
and juice of a lemon, soak the gelatine in cup cold water, 
add one pint boiling water, stir until dissolved, add sugar 
and lemon juice, beat the wdiites of the eggs and when the 
mixture is cold whip in the whites, spoonful at a time, 
when stiff' put into small cups to mould. When firm turn 
out, make a custard and pour over; flavor with vanilla. 



BLANC MANGE. 95 

Strawberry Cream. 

One quart strawberries, half package gelatine, one pint 
cream, one large cup sugar, half cup hot water, mash the 
berries, then add sugar and mash sugar and berries to- 
.^ether, let them stand some time, whip the cream to a 
froth. Have the gelatine soaked in cold water to cover, 
strain juice from berries, getting as much as possible 
through muslin. Now dissolve the gelatine in hot water 
and strain into berries, place the basin in another of ice 
water and stir until it begins to thicken, then add whipped 
<?ream, put into moulds to harden. 

Fruit Jetty. 

Pare and slice six oranges very thin and six bananas 
-and orange in layers in a charlotte russe mould. Make a 
jelly of half .box of gelatine soaked in half pint cold water, 
then add half pint of boiling water and the juice of three 
lemons, sweeten to taste, pour this jelly over the fruit 
when partly cooled and §et in cool place to harden. 

Strawberry Ch artotte. 

One quart milk, yolks six eggs, three-quarters cup 
sugar, flavor to taste, scald the milk, beat the eggs and 
sugar and stir into the milk and cook until it thickens, 
taking care that it does not crack. Place slices of sponge 
<jake in a glass dish, then a layer of ripe strawberries, 
sprinkled w4th sugar, another layer of cake, then another 
•of berries with sugar. When the custard is cold, pour it 
over the cake and berries, beat the whites of the eggs to 
a stiff froth, add sugar and put over the top and decorate 
with ripe strawberries. 

Cornstarch Btanc Mange. 
One quart milk, four tablespoon cornstarch wet in little 
<;old water, four eggs well beaten, separately, one cup sugar. 



96 ,CHAKLOTTE BUSSE. 

vanilla or nutmeg flavoring, quarter teaspoon salt. Heat 
the milk to boiling, stir in the cornstarch, boil five 
minutes (in a farina kettle,) then add the yolks with the 
sugar, boil two minutes longer stirring all the while; re- 
move the mixture from the fire and beat in the whipped 
whites. Pour into a mould wet with cold water, set in a 
cold place, eat with sugar and cream. 

Bavarian Cream. 

Whites of six eggs, beaten very light, one quart whip- 
ped cream, half box gelatine soaked one hour in cold 
water, dissolve in little hot water, flavor with one teaspoon 
extract vanilla. Beat eggs and cream together, and sugar 
to sweeten, flavor, then add gelatine; beat until it begins 
to thicken, and pour into moulds. Serve very cold with 

cream. 

Apple Snow. 

Pare, core and bring to a boil in as little water as pos- 
sible six tart apples, cool and strain, add the well whipped 
whites of three eggs, sweeten to taste and beat until a dish 
of snow is the result, flavor to suit taste, serve with sweet- 
ened cream or make a castard of the yolks, sugar and one 
pint rich milk or cream, if at hand. Place in a dish and 
drop the froth in large flakes. 

Charlotte Riisse. 

One pound lady fingers, one quart sweet cream, three- 
quarters cup powdered sugar, tw^o teaspoons vanilla, split 
and trim the cakes and fit neatly in the bottom and sides- 
of two quart moulds; whip the cream to a stiff froth after 
it has been sweetened and flavored, fill the moulds, lay the 
cakes closely together on the top and set on ice till need- 
ed. The edges of the cake may be moistened with little 
jelly, that the shape may be more easily retained. 



SYRUPS, SHER.BETS, ETQ. 

Sarsaprilla Syrup. 

One-lialf pound of Honduras sarsaparilla, and one ounce 
of Sassafras bark ; boil in two gallons of water four hours, 
strain and add enough water to ruake one gallon, then add 
eight pounds of sugar and five ounces of tartaric acid, mix 
thoroughly, boil two or three minutes and bottle. Put two 
tablespoons of the syrup in two-thirds of a glass of ice 
water, add little soda and drink while foaming. 

A Summer Drink. 

Three and a half pints of brown sugar, half pint molas- 
ses, three pints boiling water, boil these together, skim 
and add two ounces of tartaric acid; set it away to cool. 
When cool add one ounce of essence of sassafras, and bot- 
tle. A tablespoon or more in a glass of water will make 
an agreeable drink. Fill the glass two-thirds full and 
foam it with a little soda. 

Currant Shrub. 

Heat the currants till soft, and strain ; to one quart of 
juice add two cups sugar, boil fifteen minutes, skimmhig 
carefully. Bottle tight or seal in cans. 

Lemon Sherbet. 

The juice of five lemons, one pint of sugar, one quart 
water, one tablespoon gelatine, soak the gelatine in little 
of the water; boil one cup full of the water and dissolve 
the gelatine in it. Mix together the sugar, water, gelatine 
and lemon juice, strain and freeze. 



98 MAESHMALLOWS. 

Orange Sherbet. 

One and half pints of sugar, three pints water, the juice 
of ten oranges, boil the sugar and water together, twenty- 
five minutes, add the orange juice, strain and freeze. 

Straivherry Sherbet. 

One and half pints strawberry juice, one pint sugary 
one and half pints water, the juice of two lemons, boil 
water and sugar together for twenty minutes, add the 
lemon and strawberry juice, strain and freeze. 

Frozen Peaches. 

One can of peaches, one heaping pint of granulated 

sugar, one quart water, two cups whipped cream ; boil the 

sugar and water together twelve minutes, then add the 

peaches and cook twenty minutes longer. Rub througli a 

sieve and when cool, freeze. When the dasher is taken 

out, stir in the whipped cream with large spoon, cover 

and set away until serving time. It should stand one 

hour. 

Orangeade. 

Take thin skinned oranges, squeeze the juice through a 

sieve, to every pint of juice add three cups sugar, boil it 

and skim as long as scum rises, then take it off and bottle. 

A little of this makes a delicious drink in a glass of ice 

water. 

Marsh77i allows. 

Dissolve half pound gumarabic in one pint of water and 
add two cups sugar, place over the fire, stirring constantly 
until the syrup is dissolved and all of the consistency of 
honey, add gradually the whites of four eggs well beaten, 
stir the mixture until it becomes somewhat thin and does 



BEVERAGES. 99 

not adhere to the iiDgers. Flavor to taste, pour into a 
tin slightly dusted with powdered starch, when cool divide- 
into small squares. 

Chocolate Caramels. 

Two goblets brown sugar, one of water, two tablespoons- 
vinegar, little butter, half cup Baker's chocolate, boil until 
hard, flavor in tins. Do not stir while boiling. 

Hickory Nut Candy. 

Three cups sugar, half cup milk, boil ten minutes and 
stirred white. Then add one and half cups hickory nut 
meats, turn into a tin, lined with buttered paper. When 
cold cut in squares. 

Sugar Candy. 

Six cups sugar, one cup vinegar, one cup water, table- 
spoon butter put in at the last w^ith one teaspoon soda 
dissolved in hot water. Boil without stirring half hour 
or until it crisps in cold water. Pull white with the tips 
of the finofers. Flavor to taste. 



BEVERAGES. 



Cocoa. 



Six tablespoons cocoa to each pint of water, as much 
milk as water, sugar to taste; rub cocoa smooth in little 
cold water. Have ready on fire pint boiling water, stir in 
grated cocoa paste. Boil twenty minutes, add milk and 
boil five minutes more, stirring often. Sweeten in cups- 
to suit different tastes. 



100 COFFEE, TEA. 

Coffee. 

Take one tablespoon coffee to each person, and one for 
the pot, one pint water to every tablespoon, mix the coffee 
with little egg and cold water, put into the coft'ee pot and 
pour boiling water over it and boil twenty minutes. To 
settle coffee pour out a cupful and back to boiler, let 
stand a moment. 

Tea. 

Take one teaspoon to each pint boiling water, scald the 
tea pot and put in the tea, pour little boiling water on it 
and let stand a few minutes to steep, then pour over suf- 
ficient water. If oolong and green tea are used let it 
simmer a short time. 



JVIISCEbbANEOUS. 

Meat Cakes. 

One cup chopped meat, one onion chopped, one cup 
bread crumbs, two tablespoons melted butter, six of milk, 
one egg, salt and pepper; mix well together, roll into 
round cakes and fr}^ in fat. Use cold veal, beef or pork. 

Cousin J. P. 

Boiled Flank of Beef. 

Wash the flank, salt and pepper it, spread over a dress- 
ing, made as for poultry; roll this up and tie firmly, then 
sew up in a cloth. Lay it on a plate in an iron pot, cover 
with six quarts boiling water, boil gently six hours. 
When done remove the cloth but not the twine until the 
meat is entirely cold. Slice thin for lunch or tea. 

Baked Onions. 

Slice onions and boil, then place alternately bread 
crumbs and onions till dish is filled, season with plenty 
butter, salt and pepper, one cup milk. Bake till brown. 

Scalloped Meed. 

Almost any kind of meat or poultry may be boiled until 
tender. Chop and season to taste, place in a dish with 
alternate layers of bread crumbs and bits of butter. Have 
the upper layer of crumbs, pour over meat liquor or water 
enough to moisten, bake till brown. 

Rich Nut Cake. 

One and half cups sugar, half cup butter, one of milk, 



102 MISCELLANEOUS. 

half cup cornstarch, three cups flour, two teaspoons Snow 
Flake bakmg powder, whites of six eggs. Flavor with 
twenty drops almond, bake in layers. Filling — Make a 
rich cream of the yolks of the eggs, one cup milk, one tea- 
spoon cornstarch dissolved in little milk, half cup sugar. 
When it is boiled to the consistency of cream set aside to 
cool, then mix through it a pound of walnuts broken in 
small pieces, spread between layers of cake. 

Chocolaie Blanc Mange. 

Quart of milk, half box of gelatine soaked in one cup 
water, four tablespoons Baker's chocolate, grated, rubbed 
smooth in little milk, three eggs, extract vanilla to taste. 
Heat milk until boiling then add other ingredients, boil 
five minutes. Pour into mould. Serve cold with sugar 
and cream. 

Caramels. 

Equal quantities of milk, molasses and Baker's choco- 
late. Put little butter in sauce pan and boil like candy. 

A Mistake 

In saying that berries should never be washed, particu- 
larly strawberries, which are liable to have more or less 
sand. They must be carefully washed in cold water, and 
drained immediately. This does not impair the flavor in 
the least. Try it. 

When buying Chocolate and Cocoa be sure and call for 
Walter Baker's. 



TjHINGS TO K|^OW. 

To prevent juice niuning from pies, take a strip of 
muslin, one inch wide and long enough to go around the 
pie and lap, wet the cloth in cold water and lay it around 
like a binding, half upon the pie and half upon the plate, 
pressing it either side, when the pie is baked remove cloth. 
Another way: — Make a small opening in the upper crust 
and insert a little roll of brown paper perpendicularly. 
The steam will escape as from a chimney, all the juice 
will be retained. Another: — Cut a narrow strip of crust 
for the edge of pie, dip it in \\^ater and put it between two 
crusts pressing the upper one down. This forms a paste 
which joins the crusts and prevents the juice from escap- 
ing. All juicy pies should be baked as soon as they are 
filled and in a quick oven. 

To make steak tender, lay it on a fiat dish in a mixture 
of three tablespoons salad oil and one of vinegar and let 
it remain half hour on each side, then fry. 

Eai^ins may be seeded quickly by scaldiug them. 

Never allow fresh meats to remain in pa[)er, it absorbs 
the juice. 

Salt will curdle new milk; in making custards, gravies^ 
etc. the salt should not be added until the dish is prepared. 

Salt is good for cleaning marble, wash basius, sink 
fixtures and the like. 

Glassware that have liatl milk in them should never be 
put in hot water. 

Too much salt in bread will stop fermentation. 



104 THINGS TO KNOW. 

A small cup of mashed potatoes are nice in corncakes 
when eggs are scarce. 

Milk for custard pies should always be scalded and 
cooled, before putting in the crust. 

A small piece of ginger root in the lard will prevent 
doughnuts from soaking fat. 

Always put a pinch of soda in milk that is to be boiled, 
as an acid is formed by boiling. 

A little sulphate potassa added to preserves prevents 
fermentation. 

A piece of charcoal put in pot of boiling cabbage will 
do away with the strong odor. 

When you boil cabbage tie a bit of dry bread in a bag 
and put it in the kettle. You will not be troubled with 
the usual disagreeable odor. 

AVhen beaten eggs al'e to be mixed with hot milk as in 
making custards or gravies, dip the hot milk into the 
beaten eggs a spoonful at a time, stirring well each time 
until the eggs are well thinned, then add both together. 

A solution of washing soda is excellent for solid plated 
or nickel-ware for cleaning. Hub thoroughly dry. 

Colgate's Dermal Skin Soap is excellent for keeping 
the hands soft and smooth. 

Cure For Diphtheria. 

Put one teaspoon of flour of sulphur into a wine glass 
of water and stir with the finger instead of a spoon. 
When well mixed give it as a gargle. 

For Burns and Scalds 

Pure vaseline is excellent; also, lime water and linseed 
oil, equal portions; either one should be kept in a con- 
venient place. 



INDEX. 



pagh; 

A Mistake 102 

Asparagtis • 51 

Baked Onions 101 

Bananas, Creamed 85 

Beans 50 

Beans, Baked 53 

Beets 50 

Beef Tea 22 

Boiled Flank of Beef 101 

Biscuit 11 

Aunt Harriet's Cream 11 

Beaten 11 

Cold Water 11 

Itddie's 11 

Milk 11 

Whipped 11 

Spoon IH 

Bread, No. 1 5 

No. 2 

No. 3 ^ 

No. 4. 7 

Corn. No. 1 18 

No. 2 19 

JohntiA' Cake 19 

Vir^rinia Corn 19 

Graham, No. 1 9 

No. 2 9 

Potato. No. 1 7 

No. 2 7 

Salt Rising 8 

Sweet Bread 11 

Burns and Scalds 104 

Cakes, Laj'er — Almond Sponge... 69 

Chocolate 68 

Cream 68 

English Walnut 66 

Fig 67 

lee Cream Cake 66 

Lemon Spoijgc 69 

Marshmallow Cake 66 

Maple Sugar Cake 68 

Neapolitan 69 

Roll Jelly 70 

White Mountain 67 

Cakes. Loaf — Angels Food 61 

Angel Cake 62 

Annie's Pound 63 

Brides 62 

Buttercup 63 

Columbian Pound 63 

Cup 62 

Cream Spong? 65 

Daisy 63 

Fruit 64 

Imperial 64 



PAGE 

Cakes, Loaf— Cont/nuecf. 

Lady 64 

Marble 62 

MarA^'s Drop Sponge 65 

Rich'Nut 101 

Sponge 65 

Velvet Sponge 65 

Walnut 65 

White Delicate 61 

White Fruit 63 

Cakes, Small — Doughnuts 72 

Ginger Cakes 71 

Ginger Snaps 71 

Gingerl)read 71 

Jumbles 70 

Spiced Gingerbread 70 

Cake Making 59 

Table of Weights and Meas- 
ures 59 

Cabbage 49 

Carrots 52 

Caramels 102 

Catsup, Currant 58 

Tomato 58 

Cauliflower 49 

Caramel Coloring 45 

Celery 50 

Chicken, Baked, No. 1 36 

Baked. No. 2 37 

Fried 36 

. Nice Way to Cook 37 

Pressed 36 

Roast 36 

Cheese Fondu 55 

Chicken Fie 38 

Chicken, Prairie 38 

Chicken Salad 37 

Chocolate Blanc Mange 102 

Corn, Baked 52 

Corn C akes 52 

Creams. lellv 77 

Rock..: 77 

Whipped 77 

Substitute for 77 

Crumb Cakes 17 

Crumpets 15 

Custard 90 

Custard Frosted 77 

Cymblings — 50 

Cocoa 99 

Coff"ee 100 

Desserts r. 94 

Ajiple Snow 96 

Bavarian Cream 96 

P.Miiana Pudding 94 

Buttercup Jelly 94 



106 



INDEX. 



PAGE 

Desserts— Cont/noed. 

Cornstarch Blanc Mange... 95 

Charlotte Russe Jb 

Fruit Jelly ^^ 

Snow Custard........... ;J* 

Strawberry Charlotte Jo 

Dtiek, Koast.. •• f (^ 

Dyphthcria, Cure for i^^* 



Egg Plant, 



51 



18 
75 



Jellies, Marmalades and Jams. 
Lobster Croquetts 



Mush 



Fish, Baked, No. 1 23 

Baked. No. 2 ^J 

Boiled Salmon ^* 

Creamed Fish -» 

Codfish Balls f5 

Fried Fish, No. 1 ^"^ 

No. 2 -'4- 

No. 3 24 

" Mackerel ^^ 

Stewed Fish -«2 

To Pickle Trout --^^ 

Fillings for Cakes, Chocolate ^w 

Cream ^;; 

Fruit ;- 

Peach Cream ^2 

Fritters 

Frosting, Yellow 

Graham PufTs ^f. 

Griddle Cakes ^^ 

Buckwheat ^»_' 

Indian ^4 

Mother's Batter j^ ^ 

Sister Kate's Flannel 1' 

Ice Cream Jf 

Banana 'f 

Caramel i,-' 

Peach i^ 

Strawberry l^ 

Icings— Almond ^* 

Boiled l2 

Chocolate '^ 

Cocoanut ^^ 

Orange ^^ 

Water ^o 

Icing for Cake '* 

91 



27 



Macaroni 

with Oysters 
Marshm allows 



with Tomatoes 5G 



Meat Cakes }^} 

M iscellaneous 

Meats, Beef 

Mutton 

Pork ^;! 

Veal i^^ 

Meat Jelly 

'• Cold 

Muffins ^ 

Buttermilk ^"^ 



PAGE 
... 19 



Barley ^^ 

Corn Meal |^ 

Oat Meal }^ 

Mushrooms ''^ 

Omelet. Baked ^^ 

IMain ^^ 

Onions ^2. 

Orange Roly Poly »* 

Oysters, Fried ^^ 

Pie ^" 

Scalloped .■ • ■■•■ 26 

Scalloped with Rice 2b 

Soup i2 

Pan Cakes, German »•' 

Parsnip Rolls '^^ 

Pickles— Cucumber -^^ 

French ^1. 

Mustard ' 

Pickled Eggs.. 
Ties- Cracker. 

Cream 

Cream Peach °^ 

Custard ^^ 

Cocoanut '^ 

Gooseberry ^^ 

Lemon • ^/ 

Mince »^ 

Orange ^° 

Peach ^° 

Pumpkin 



6 

9.S 



101 

28 
3'.) 



35 
42 
14 



C orn . 



14 



Graham • ^f 

Raised }'^ 

Wheat ^^ 



58 
89 

87 



89 

58 



Pepper Mangoes *'^ 

Potatoes 7/, 



42 
84 
SO 
81 
82 



Pot Pourri 

Pudding— Apple 

Baked Custard 

Cocoanut 

Cottage 2^ 

Cream ^i 

Delicious °^ 

Flour 25 

Graham ^q 

Harry's Cherry '^^ 

Orange '^^ 

Peach Tapioc 

Peach 

Plum 

Prune 

Rice 

Quick PutT 

Roly Poly 

Puft" Paste 



82 
82 
83 
81 
80 
80 
84 
86 



Quail 



38 



56 

18 
9 



Rice 

Rice Cakes 

Rolls ;■■■■;; r>^'l.+ 

Our Grandma's Breaktast 

Rolls 

Tea Rolls, No 1 ^ 

" No. 2 19 

" No. 3 

Rusks 

Rusks, No. 1 



9 



10 
11 
11 



Louisa's Rusks, No. 2 H 

Salads. Cabbage ^y^ 

Potato ■"^'^ 



INDEX. 



107 



PAGK 

Salads — Continued. 

Tomato 54 

Dressing: r>3 

Mayonaise 54- 

Sal m on 45 

Sauce, Brandy 75 

Caramel 76 

Cold 75 

Cream 77 

Hard 76 

Foaming 76 

Lem on 76 

Pudding 75 

Wine 76 

Sauce for Meat and Fish 42 

C elery 44 

Drawn Butter 43 

Egg 44 

Game 44 

Italian 43 

Maitre d'Hote 44 

Melted Butter 43 

Mint 44 

Scalloped Meat 101 

Short Cake, Strawberry 13 

Sweet Short Cake 14 

Soups, Amber 20 

Beef 21 

Brow^ning for 22 

Dumplings for * 21 

Force Meat lor 22 

Noodle 21 

Noodles for 21 

Tomato 20 

Soup Stock 20 



PAGE 

Succotash _ 52 

Sugar Candy 99 

Sjjanish Buns ; 15 

Spinach, Minced ; ', 53 

Syrups, Sherbets &c " 97 

A Summer Drink 97 

Chocolate Caramels 99 

Currant Shrub 97 

Frozen Peaches 98 

Hickory Nut Candy 99 

Lemon Sherbet 97 

Orange Sherbet 9S 

Orangeade 98 

Strawberry Sherbet 98 

Tea 100 

Things to Know 103 

Toast — Buttered 55 

Cream 55 

Ham 55 

Tomatoes 4.9 

Baked .' 52 

Turnips ..: 52 

Turkey, Roast 37 

Vegetables 46 

Wafers 13 

W affles 16 

Breakfast 16 

Verv fine 16 

Welsh Rarebit 55 

Yeast 8 



Cocoas 



MADE BY THE 

DUTCH 
PROCESS 

are "Treated with Carbonate of Soda, Magnesia, 
Potash or Bicarbonate of Soda." 

The use of chemicals can be readily 
detected by the peculiar odor from newly 
opened packages, and also from a glass 
of water in which a small quantity of 
chemically treated cocoa has been placed 
and allowed to remain for several days. 

For more than One Hundred Years 
the house of Walter Jiaker & Co. 
have made their Cocoa l*reparations 
ABSOLUTELY PUHE , using ^'O 
Patent Process, A.lhalies , or Dyes. 



W. BAKER & CO., Dorchester, Mass. 



THE ONLY 



"^ BAKING POWDER ^ 

NO AMMONIA. NO ALUM 




GDABAN- 
TEED. 



USED EXCLUSIVELY BY THE TJ. S. GOVEENMENT. 



Headouarters department of Dakota,! 

Office ChierCommissary of Siibsistance, > 

St. Paul, Minn., Dec. 28, 1891. ) 

^"•gR^'-rercrosf one"co^v"orthe contract niade with you for SNOW 
FLAKE Baking Powder. R-P-^ftilly,^^^.^^^^ ^^^^ ^^^ 

THOS. C. SULLIVAN. 
Lieut. Col. and A. C. G. S., Chief C. S. 




'>«^ 



mm, 



