LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 



LETTERS 



TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 



BY 

MARIE HANSEN-TAYLOR 

K 
(MRS. BAYARD TAYLOR) 



" And true philosophers, methinks, 

Who love all sorts of natural beauties, 
Should love good victuals and good drinks." 

THACKERAY 



LONDON 
SAMPSON LOW, MARSTON, & COMPANY 

Limited 



FETTER LANE, FLEET STREET, E.C, 
1892 



AGRIC. 
LIBRARY 



Copyright, 1892, by Charles Scribner's Sons, 
for the United States of America. 



Printed by Berwick & Smith, 
Boston, Masa., TJ.S.A. 



HENRY MORSE 



DEDICATED 

TO 



LILIAN BAYARD TAYLOR KILIANI 



512525 



CONTENTS 



LETTER I 

PAGE 

Introductory How to choose meat Meat must be kept until fit 
for use Length of time necessary for keeping meat Impor- 
tance of the kitchen fire I 



LETTER II 

What Liebig did for the advance of cookery On the subject of 
economy About marketing Food is needed to counteract 
the daily waste of the human body The chemistry of food 
The daily rations necessary Nutritive value of food-materials 
C. Voit's estimate of a full ration We eat too much meat. . 6 



LETTER III 

How to boil meat and make soup How to make a broth preserving 
all the nutrients of meat Recipe for ordinary soup-liquor How 
to make a good soup, and save the meat for use Liebig's way of 
using his meat extract for soup Amber-colored broth Occa- 
sional additions to soup 14 



LETTER IV 

About soup in general Rumford soup Soups divided into three 
classes Soups made of cereals Accessories to soups 20 

LETTER V 

Vegetable soups Water soups Soups of meat puree Sweetbread 

and calf s brains soup Two ancient recipes 30 

vii 



Vlll CONTENTS 

LETTER VI 

PAGE 

About salting food The qualities of pure salt Salt assists diges- 
tion Salt will raise the temperature of boiling water The use, 
value, and abuse of spices Buy spices and herbs whole How 
to preserve herbs How to keep lemon and orange peels 
Grades of nourishment in meats, and their different food-values 
The juices of meat must be kept intact How to broil a beef- 
steak, showing the principle of the art of cooking meat How to 
roast beef How to stew or braise meat Recipe Time required 
for roasting other kinds of meat Respective value of different 
cuts of beef Filet of beef & la jardiniere What to do with 
remnants of beef Beef en matelote 40 

LETTER VII 

Waste material in food-matters, and loss of weight in cooking Recipe 
for duck a la Portiigaise About veal Recipes About mutton 

Recipes 49 

LETTER VIII 

General remarks about pork Roast pork with Cumberland sauce 

Other recipes About ham A mustard and a horseradish 
sauce, both cold How to boil ham and beef tongue, and what to 
do with the remnants About poultry and how to buy How to 
cook chickens and game Other recipes How to fry parsley 
What to do with remnants of poultry Stewed turkey Devilled 
drumsticks Duck Pigeons Stuffings for poultry 59 

LETTER IX 

The usefulness of ragotits Some recipes How to make sauces 

Recipes for sauces Ragout in pastry shell ; in ring of crou- 
tons; in rice-ring Three cold sauces 69 

LETTER X 

Difference between frying and saztte'mg How to fry How to make 
croquettes Recipe of a batter About gelatine, and the nutri- 
tive value of gelatinous substances What these substances are 

The uses of meat-jelly Recipes Meat jellies for invalids.. 76 



CONTENTS IX 

LETTER XI 

PAGE 

About rice, and how to cook it The pilaff Various recipes for it 
Risotto Recipes for baked rice About macaroni, and how to 
boil it Recipes , 84 

LETTER XII 

Recipe for stufato a V Italienne with macaroni Other recipes for 
macaroni About mushrooms, and how to cook them About 
truffles 91 

LETTER XIII 

The value of vegetables in nutrition About potatoes How to boil, 
steam, and bake them Mashed potatoes Various recipes 98 

LETTER XIV 

Food-values of vegetables Green peas A dish of mixed vegetables 

String-beans Lima beans Kohlrabi Spinach Sorrell 
Cauliflower Asparagus Brussels sprouts Cabbage Savoy 
cabbage Red cabbage 106 

LETTER XV 

Carrots Turnips Salsify Celery root Parsnips Root-vegeta- 
bles mixed Beets Sweet potatoes Corn Egg-plant Squash 

Tomatoes Onions Chestnuts Macedoine of vegetables. . . 1 18 



LETTER XVI 

Food-values of fish How to cook fish Court-bouillon for boiling 
fish Striped bass Sauce hollandaise for fish Two recipes for 
pike Cod and haddock Mustard sauce for fish Salmon 
Parsley sauce Sauce oenoise Sauce remoulade Flounder 
a la Joinville How to broil fish Fish steak sauted Mack- 
erel Bloaters How to use remnants of fish Bouille-abaisse 
Matelote Fish in jelly 128 



CONTENTS 



LETTER XVII 

PAGE 

Cured cod, and how to treat it Codfish balls Oysters, and the 
different ways of cooking them Oyster sauce How to cook 
clams Clam chowder How to boil a lobster Various recipes 
for lobster Lobster sauce Lobster butter Frogs' legs 139 



LETTER XVIII 

General remarks about salads How to prepare lettuce, and to make 
a French dressing About dressing herb salads More substan- 
tial salad dressings Three different mayonnaise dressings 
Combinations in salads How to pickle beets Cabbage salads 
Rules to follow for salads of boiled vegetables An excellent 
combination salad, and how to treat cucumbers 147 



LETTER XIX 

Various ways of making potato salad A Portuguese salad Italian 
salad An appetizer Venetian fish salad Salmon salad 
Lobster salad Salad of boiled vegetables Salad a la Nostiz 
A Dumas salad Chicken salad Other meat salads Tomato 
salads 157 



LETTER XX 

Food-value of eggs Ways of cooking eggs, and how to do it 
How to make omelets Stirred eggs Roman fritata Pan- 
cakes Pancakes filled with meat Farcied eggs About cheese 
Some recipes 164 



LETTER XXI 

Valuation of food-matters for light desserts The most economical 
dessert Sweet pancakes Desserts served in cups Recipe for 
Mount Blanc Snow crime Raspberry foam Rodgrod 
Whipped cream; how to make it, and its uses Russian creme 
Chocolate bavaroise How to use gelatine Russian rice 
Macedoine of fruit Apple pudding White of egg pudding 
Custard pudding Lemon pudding Rice pudding Wine 
sauce Fruit sauces Claret sauce 1 73 



CONTENTS XI 

LETTER XXII 

PAGE 

Rules for baking cake German drop cakes Israel cake Jenny 
Lind cake Lightning cake Sponge cake Sand cake Choc- 
olate cake Vienna cake Two nice cake fillings Cake icings 
and ornamenting Small cakes Chocolate tarts Portuguese 
drop cakes Sugar wafers Macaroons Filet de vent Kisses 

Meringues Bouchees Candied fruit and orange peel 182 

LETTER XXIII 

Rules for putting up stores of preserves Sour cherries and black- 
hearts put up air-tight Jam of raspberries and blackberries 
Raspberry sirup Jellies of raspberries, blackberries, and currants 

How to put up peaches Brandy peaches Quinces Two 
kinds of pickled cucumbers Pickled cabbage Sweet pickles 
Tomato catsup Tarragon vinegar 192 

LETTER XXIV 

Suggestions for an evening entertainment Pickled oysters Sand- 
wiches, and how to make them Three recipes for mixed butter 

Salted almonds Tea punch Cardinal punch Snow punch 

Ambrosia Almond milk Four menus for luncheons Four 
menus for dinners , 201 

INDEX.. . 211 



LETTERS : TO'k-' : V6tJ^'G HOUSEKEEPER 



LETTER I 

'L'utile, pour moi, c'est le beau. 

CHARLES JOBEY. 

SO you are going to begin housekeeping? And as I prom- 
ised you a friend's advice whenever this event should 
occur, I am ready to keep my promise. With the 

J. . Introductory. 

exception that I have the advantage over you of 
being older, and therefore, of course, so much the wiser, our 
cases are almost parallel. We have not been raised in luxury ; 
we both have married worthy men, who have to use their 
brains and energy to provide for bread and butter, and, since 
our natures " cry for it," a great deal more in addition. Your 
husband like mine furnishes the means for a modest but com- 
fortable living, and you and I are bound in return to see that 
the waste of force and brain-power he is obliged to undergo is 
day by day restored, and his vitality kept unimpaired by those 
chemicals of which our mortal frame is made up, and which 
we call food. 

Now do not think that what you have undertaken is mere 
play. It is, on the contrary, a tolerably severe task and a 
great pleasure at the same time when you see that your efforts 
are succeeding. 

Do you believe that a morning's work can be done comfort- 
ably on a gruel breakfast? Do you think a stomach would not 
rebel against a continued diet of roast beef and chops ? If you 
wish your husband to be nervously debilitated by and by, dis- 
heartened and the reverse of cheerful, give him breakfasts with- 

i 



2 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

out substance and dinners without variety. Be they cooked as 
well as you please, that will not tend to mend matters in the long 
run. 

Your task being not eay; I am l goitig-tb;be a severe teacher. 
I require of you, my pupil, from the start 'that, being a house- 
keeper, you devote each dy;sr>m;of:yDur best thinking to 
the bill of fare and the meals to be served. ' I do not think it 
waste of time. Try it, and you will feel satisfied with the 
result. With all that science and experience contribute nowa- 
days, cooking is more of an art than ever, for an art it has 
been considered ever since people became civilized. Nor is 
it a peculiarly feminine occupation. There have been male 
cooks always, some of them famous, as we know, and there 
are not a few among men of genius and distinction who have 
given more or less attention to culinary accomplishments. In 
Plato's opinion it brought no dishonor to a philosopher in case 
of necessity to cook his own meal ; and Baronius, a cardinal 
and learned theologian of the Middle Ages, took pride in the 
preparation of meals, writing over his mantelpiece with his 
own hand : " Caesar Baronius, permanent cook." Richelieu, 
also, and Mazarin, his successor, looked closely into the details 
of their cuisines. Rousseau was an expert in cooking eggs in 
various styles, while Lamartine, the poet, was taught by his 
tutor, the Abbe" Dumont, to cook a plain dinner. Our own 
countryman, Rumford, who was made a count in Germany, 
invented the soup which is called by his name, benefiting 
thereby the poorer classes of the people. And who has not 
heard of the amiable and refined Brillat-Savarin ? You must 
acknowledge, my friend, that we have a galaxy of renowed ex- 
amples before us, whom to follow we need not be ashamed. 
But, if an art, cooking is also a study, and my advice would be 
to make it a study first and an art afterward. This implies that 
you are not to take what I say, or what the cook-books (a whole 
host of them) tell you, according to the letter, but that you will 
have to catch the spirit of it all, and do as it directs. In this 
way the intelligent way you will become the inventor, the 
true artist, the benefactor. 



LETTER I 3 

This is my first injunction : To provide for your meals buy 
the best of materials; it is the cheapest, because it goes 
furthest in nourishing. This is especially true of the most 
important of all food, meat; inasmuch as the flesh of all 
the higher animals furnishing food contains nearly all the sub- 
stances of which the human frame is made up. For this reason 
you must know how to distinguish between good and bad meat. 
In giving you the requisite indications I follow Dr. Wiel, whose 
" Diaetetisches Kochbuch " has been my teacher in many 
respects : i, Meat when of a pale red color shows HOW to choose 
that the animal had been ailing; 2, when of a meat - 
deep purple that it died (was not slaughtered) ; 3, when 
healthy and well-fed the color is of a dark pink ingrained with 
white, which is fat ; 4, the fat of a healthy animal is of a pure 
white, and hard ; 5, the fat of a sickly one is of a yellowish white, 
and soft and watery to the touch. It follows that you have 
to do your own marketing yourself. 

The two principal ingredients of the meat are the muscular 
fibre and the juice. In the latter is contained the albumen, 
which is of so much value in restoring us from day to day. 
The fibre, however, determines the relative nutritive properties 
of the meat. In this respect well-fed beef is highest in rank. 
And of the beef again it is the loin and sirloin which are the most 
nutritious parts as well as the easiest to digest. The poorest 
pieces are the flank, neck, and shank. Their nutritive value is 
about ten times less than that of the loin, sirloin, rib piece, 
and rump. The remaining parts are inferior to the latter and 
superior to the former ; they are of more or less relative value ; 
in the hands of an intelligent cook, however, the least nutritive 
piece even may be turned into good and palatable food. You 
must learn that even the best piece of meat is not fit for roast- 
ing or stewing unless it has been kept for some 

. r 11 m -i Meat must be 

time alter slaughtering, lo give it the necessary kept tin fit for 
tenderness it has to pass through a certain pro- 
cess, which in reality is the first degree of decomposition. In 
this way an acid the lactic acid is developed, which tends 
to soften the fibre otherwise tough. This process, however, 



4 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

can take place only with meat kept at a temperature above 
freezing-point. If meat is frozen it has to be thawed gradually 
and then put to use at once, or it will soon be beyond the 
proper stage of ferment. The time necessary for the right 
sort of decomposition to set in is longer or shorter according 
to the different kinds of meat and the seasons. In summer 
beef is ready for use in one or two days, while in 

The time neces- * ' 

sary for keeping winter it takes about a week. Veal and lamb 
take two days in summer, and four to six in 
winter; mutton, one to two in summer, and three to six in 
winter ; venison, four in summer, and ten to twelve in winter ; 
poultry, one to two days in summer, and four days at least in 
winter ; game, from one to twelve days. If at any time you 
should be obliged to use a piece of meat while it is still too 
fresh, you may remedy the case by pouring over it some 
boiling hot vinegar, then wiping it dry with a clean towel 
before putting it into your pan. 

This leads me to the kitchen fire, the importance of which is 
so little appreciated by our kitchen maids. The best of mate- 
. importance of rial is apt to be spoiled and made tasteless by 
the kitchen fire. e j t h er too hot or too slow a fire. A well-regu- 
lated fire is absolutely necessary in preparing good and nutri- 
tious food. It ought to be made a special study by each house- 
keeper, who, in turn, ought to instruct her servant. It is a 
known fact that water, after getting to the boiling point /. <?. 
showing an agitated surface does not increase in temperature. 
As soon as this point is reached a slackening fire will do the 
same service as a lively one. The lesson to be derived from 
this is one of economy. The importance of the right sort of 
fire in preparing different kinds of food was known in ancient 
times. Some curious works have come down to us written 
by Greek cooks of old. One of them says : " You must 
see to the strong, the medium, and the slow fire according 
to the dishes you wish to prepare " ; and then he adds : 
" Nor is he the genuine cook who handles the pan, swings 
the ladle or the meat-knife, or who serves up a delicacy; 
but he it is who knows to keep the right measure, and 



LETTER I 5 

gives the necessary temperature to each dish of food he 
cooks." 

Well, we have made a beginning of what we have to learn. 
We will proceed step by step, until we reach the top of the 
ladder, only to find that there is no end to the pursuit of knowl- 
edge even in the matter of cooking. 



LETTER II 

Je crois qu'il est tres bon de r6v61er aux hommes 
Les secrets de se bien rfourrir. 

CHARLES JOBEY. 

YOU never had the benefit of a cooking-school? Neither 
had I. By-the-bye, I found out the other day that cooking- 
schools are by no means a modern institution ; for during the 
reign of Louis XIV. of France Madame de Sable" distinguished 
herself among the court ladies all dabbling in cookery by 
establishing a cooking-school, where the Duke of Larochefou- 
cauld was counted one of her best pupils. 

I was going to say that although our cooking-schools are ex- 
cellent, and are doing a great deal of good, a woman of common 
intelligence and good sense may never come near one, and yet 
become a good cook and housekeeper by the grace of her own 
ingenuity. Necessity and love of home combining, she will 
soon make herself acquainted with the first rudiments of cook- 
ing, and then her own experiences will teach her more and more. 
It is astonishing how many cook-books have been published of 
every size and kind. Still, many as there are, new and old, 
I think there is room for more of them ; for cooking is gradually 
passing into a new phase by the help of modern chemistry. It 
L iebi did was ^iebig who first called public attention to the 
for the advance chemical process performed in every kitchen for 
the purpose of restoring the daily waste of the 
human body ; who taught us in his " Chemische Briefe " how to 
roast meat, and why the piece of meat which has furnished us 
with a good broth is devoid of nutriment. Others have followed 
him, and intelligent housekeepers are beginning to see that they 
have to study in order to become adequate providers for their 
families. In my opinion the cook-books of the future will have 
6 



LETTER II 7 

to take cognizance of the practical side of chemistry as demon- 
strated by modern scholars. 

I touched on the subject of economy in my last in speaking 
of the kitchen fire, and now mean to impress upon O n the subject 
your mind that in this word "economy," when ofeconom y- 
coupled with intelligence, you have the key to the secret how 
to have a better table with restricted means than many a 
family paying large sums for no end of provisions. In the first 
place, it is absolutely wrong to be wasteful, and in the second 
place it is not ladylike to be so. This may comfort you when 
your servant, as ignorant persons are apt to do, will confound 
in her mind meanness with economy. Do not allow yourself to 
be troubled in the least by such a doubt on her part, for it is a 
matter of false pride to be influenced thus as long as you know 
better. Nor will you be able to carry out the principle of 
economy without making your servant your assistant. You will 
have to teach her imperatively that you will allow no waste of 
any kind that no particle of food is to be thrown Some ways of 
away without your orders. Food, if left over, be it economizing. 
ever so small in quantity, is to be put on clean platters, and set 
away for your inspection next day. In this way, for instance, I 
have often made of little remnants of different kinds of cooked 
food the most palatable of soups. Bones left over, cooked or 
not, ought to be cracked, and added to the contents of the soup- 
kettle. The superfluous fat of a roast is better trimmed off 
when raw, and prepared for future use by cutting it in squares, 
and rendering or " trying it out." Have the clean drippings 
poured through a fine sieve into a bowl, and set away in a cool 
place. The fat left after the meat has been served may be ap- 
propriated to the same purpose, but it is inferior in quality. 
The drippings of different kinds of meat are better kept sepa- 
rate. Mutton drippings are only fit to use when fresh. If 
cooked up with a slice of onion, they are delicious to fry pota- 
toes with. The fat taken from a chicken and rendered is nearly 
as good as butter for cooking purposes. 

I want also to call your attention to the bread-box. Pieces 
will accumulate in it, and may be used up in different ways the 



8 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

nice pieces for various dishes, of which later ; the odds and ends 
to dry in the oven, and roll into crumbs for breading chops, etc. 

Parsley, celery leaves and stalks, pieces of raw carrot left 
over, may be dried, and kept each separate for future use. 

These are merely hints on which to enlarge for yourself. 

In marketing, look out for the best material. I said before 

that it is the cheapest, because it contains the most nutriment ; 

therefore, it goes the furthest to satisfy the appetite. 

About marketing. * , 

When you buy you should well calculate your needs 
as to quantity. When brought home, all articles not for imme- 
diate use should be taken care of at once and stored in proper 
places. The next thing is to use your marketing in such a way 
as to make the most of it. Even the best materials will be in- 
sufficient to nourish if not put to their proper uses. To attain 
this, each article of food has to be prepared in such a way as 
to preserve intact the nutriments contained in it as much as 
The way to pre- possible, and care has also to be taken to bring 
pare food. out j ts particular flavor ; this makes food palatable 

and favors digestion. Too much heat will dry up the juiciest 
of meat. The wrong kind of spice, or too much of it, will kill 
the delicate flavor of animal or vegetable food, and rob it of its 
wholesome nature. 

Nor is it a matter of indifference what kind of food you pro- 
vide, and in what way you combine the different kinds. There 
Food is needed * s a certam amount of waste going on in our 
to counteract bodies day by day, which must be replaced by the 

the daily waste . J J , . , , 

of the human same elements which have been spent, and which 
are contained in the foods provided by nature. 
These elements, and the manner in which they are distributed 
in our foods, are a matter for you to study, in order to become 
the judicious provider for your family. 

There are two classes of nutrients which concern us mostly. 
(i) The plastic materials, so called because they build up and 
The chemistry repair the organs of the human body, and renew 
of food. the life-giving blood. (2) The heat and breath 

producing materials the fuel by which the human machine is 
kept going. Of the former the chief element is nitrogen, 



LETTER II 



which is furnished by the albumen in animal substances, by 
the gluten in cereals, and legumin in vegetables ; by casein in 
milk, etc. They are classed by the name of albuminoids, or 
protein. The second class consist chiefly of carbon and 
hydrogen, and are summed up as carbohydrates. They are 
contained in sugar, starch, dextrin, alcohol, water, and in the 
fats of animals and vegetables. The fats, however, are often 
classed by themselves, and further on, in giving you the daily 
rations of food as set down by the latest investigations, you 
will find special mention made of them. 

There is still another and equally important class of ele- 
ments 'anorganic substances such as sulphur, lime, phos- 
phorus, potassium, calcium, sodium chloride (common salt), 
ircn and other minerals, which enter into the composition of 
our blood and bones. Either one of these three (or four) 
classes of nutrients without the others will fail to nourish man 
or beast. But it is the first and second class which principally 
concern us, the fats being contained and distributed among the 
animal and vegetable food-materials in such a way as to need 
but small attention, while the anorganic and mineral substances 
are to be found so wisely mixed with the albuminoids and 
carbohydrates that we may let them take care of themselves. 

Most scholars agree that for every part of albuminoids there 
must be four parts of carbohydrates in our daily food. Next 
we have to know how much of either of these The rat j ons 
food-elements is necessary to nourish human necessar y dai| y- 
beings each day. The following is now generally accepted as 
being the daily rations on an average for persons of different 
sex and ages : 





Albuminoids. 


Fats. 


Carbohydrates. 


For children up to i^ years . 
For children from 6-15 years 
For a man 


Ounces. 
0.7 to 1.3 
2.5 to 2.9 

A 2 


Ounces. 
I to 1.6 
1.2 to 1.9 

2 


Ounces. 
2.3 to 3.3 
8.6 to 14.4 
17.6 


For a woman 


q q 


I c; 


14 4. 


For an aged man .... 
For an aged woman . . . 


3-5 
2.9 


2.4 
1.9 


12.5 

9-3 



10 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

This is meant for persons who work but moderately. A per- 
son of leisure would need less albuminoids ; a laboring man or 
woman would need more. Besides, there have to be consid- 
ered the condition of health, the calling and temperament of 
the persons in question, as well as the climate and the seasons. 
It follows that a table may be loaded with luxurious dishes and 
delicacies, and yet fail to nourish properly those feasting on 
them. Unless they are so chosen as to yield in their combi- 
nation the right proportion of the nutrients required to repair 
the daily wastes of the human body, they will do harm instead 
of good. 

You might say, " How comes it, then, that mankind is still 
in existence, since the science of the kitchen was unknown 
heretofore ? " It is, indeed, a fact to be wondered at when we 
consider the barbarities practised in the way of feeding and 
cooking even to the present day. There are two things, how- 
ever, in favor of man : one is the toughness of his frame, 
which seems to be able to stand a good deal of abuse ; the 
other is that mysterious guide called instinct, which led people 
from the start to find out what is good for them and what not. 
But instinct, somehow, seems to beat its retreat when civili- 
zation advances triumphantly, and neither you nor I would fare 
well or be satisfied to rely always on that sort of leadership, 
when science is holding up her torch-light to show us the 
"how" and "why." Just think of all the persons we know, 
young and old, ailing of no one knows what of mysterious 
troubles called anaemia, dyspepsia, liver complaint, etc. ! 
Who knows but that such persons are either half-starved or 
over-fed, for which ailments no physician can aid them ? 

I would advise you to study this subject earnestly. There 
is many a spare hour in which to do it. And it pays. There 
are books to teach you books which treat of the kitchen as a 
laboratory for preparing the chemical compounds necessary to 
preserve and foster life, but which so far, I am afraid, have not 
found many readers among our sex. Meanwhile the hints I 
give you may help a- little to pave the way. 

The following will furnish you with a rough estimate of the 



LETTER II 11 

nutritive values we have in our principal food-materials as to 
nitrogen (albuminoids) and carbon (carbohydrates). 

These values may be divided into three different classes : 
First, food in which nitrogen and carbon are combined the 
class to be rated as the highest; second, food Nutritivevalue8 
which contains chiefly nitrogen, and therefore has m food-mate- 
to be complemented by articles of the third class ; 
third, food which chiefly consists of carbon, and has to be 
complemented by food of the second class. Here follows a 
list to choose from according to the above values : 

Food of the first class : Fat meat ; beef-tea made without 
heat ; milk ; fat oysters ; all unbolted flour, and gruel and 
bread made thereof; dried beans, peas and lentils; cabbages, 
especially cauliflower ; kale, spinach, lettuce, string beans, and 
green peas ; onions and leeks ; mushrooms ; tea, coffee, and 
chocolate. 

Food of the second class : Lean meat ; eggs ; fresh fish ; 
lean oysters and clams ; cured fish, especially cod, herring, 
salmon, and sardines ; cheese made of milk. 

Food of the third class : Salt pork, very fat ; wheat bread ; 
wheat flour, corn meal ; sugar ; rice, sago, barley, farina, corn- 
starch ; macaroni, vermicelli ; potatoes, sweet potatoes, turnips, 
carrots, parsnips ; fruit ; fermented beverages. 

Your task is to select from these three classes of food your 
materials and combine them in such a way as to give you, as 
nearly as possible, the correct proportions of albuminoids and 
carbohydrates demanded to supply the daily rations for the 
persons you have to provide for. In doing so, however, you 
have to bear in mind that what you buy is not food consisting 
of pure albuminoids and carbohydrates, but materials more or 
less mixed with refuse, like the bones and sinews of meat ; and 
that in addition you have the mineral matters and the water, 
all of which tell in weight. C. Voit, the great c ^.^ ^._ 
physiologist of Munich, says that a full-grown mate of a full 
person to get his full ration of albuminoids needs 
at least 8.2 ounces of meat a day, of which there are bones 
about 0.6 ounce, fat 0.7 ounce, and pure muscle 6.9 ounces. 



12 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

He adds that the latter may be replaced by poultry, or fish, 
and also either entirely or in part by cheese, and dishes 
prepared with milk or milk and egg. 

I follow him also in stating that of the whole amount of food 
not more than one-third ought to consist of animal matters 
the other two-thirds having to be made up from vegetable 
produce. A purely vegetable diet would require a considerably 
larger amount of albuminoids than is given in the table of daily 
rations, because the digestive properties of the nitrogen of 
vegetable food are from one-fourth to one-third less than 
those of the same substance in animal food. 

It remains for me to give you an idea of the percentages of 
the different nutrients in the food-materials with which we have 
to work. But I prefer to do this as I go along, mentioning 
their proportionate values when I come to deal separately with 
the cooking materials and the preparing of them. 

I may remark here that on the whole we eat too much meat. 
We would fare better if we relied for our animal food more 
We eat too much on the products of the dairies. This cannot be 
preached enough to persons of moderate means, 
inasmuch as the dairies furnish us with a larger quantity of 
nutrients for the same money than meat does. Although your 
circumstances and mine are not so much restricted as to 
impose on us real privations, it is comfortable to know that, 
in reducing our butcher's bill and favoring the dairyman, we 
get a pleasant substitute for the same amount of nourishment, 
and at the same time are practising the virtue of economy. 
This method, moreover, helps us to a greater variety in our 
meals ; and variety of necessity promotes the appetite and aids 
digestion. You might succeed in putting on your table each 
day the exact amount of albuminoids combined with the right 
proportion of carbohydrates, and fail at the same time to satisfy 
the appetite of the consumer. Food, after being eaten, has to 
be assimilated taken up by the system in such a way as to 
serve its purpose ; and to attain this effect in many cases the 
eye needs to be tempted as well as the stomach. Both easily 
tire if the same things are continually set before them. And 



LETTER II 13 

there is the palate also, which is as severe a critic as you would 
wish to have. Therefore, you must have variety in your daily 
fare ; it must look well ; it must taste well ; in short, your food 
must be cooked and served in the best possible way. 

The cooking of it is what concerns us most at present. I am 
ready to step into the kitchen with you in my next. 



LETTER III 

L'appetit vient en mangeant. 

FIRST of all you wish to know how to boil meat, and make 
the most of it for soup. Suppose you have bought a piece 
of meat for this purpose, and. want to get from it as good a 
broth as possible. What we do first is to cleanse 
nSi and' it. We do so by rubbing it off with a clean towel. 

make soup. Jf splinters Q f bone> sand? etc>j haye to fa re- 

moved, we scrape it with a clean but dull knife. In extreme 
cases it may be rinsed quickly with water ; but be sure never 
to immerse your meat. If you do, the surface of it will be 
robbed of its best juices. These we want as much as possible 
to preserve for our broth. To this end we take a soup-kettle 
with a tight- fitting lid, which we fill with cold water, and in this 
water we put the meat, adding a little salt. In allowing the 
water to get hot gradually the blood with the albumen and the 
mineral matters are extracted from the meat and imparted to 
the water. As soon as the latter reaches the boiling point the 
kettle has to be removed to a place where it will merely " smile " 
as the French term it ; which means, of course, that it must 
simmer or boil gently. After a while we see a brown scum 
rising; this is the albumen, which coagulates in the boiling 
water and thus is lost as a nutrient. Consequently, meat or 
soup broth is not of great nutritive value. It is merely a stim- 
ulant on account of the so-called " extractives " in it, of which 
gelatine (or glue) is also a part, and, as such, important in the 
process of nutrition. The gelatine in the broth is the result of 
continued boiling, and proceeds from the tendons, bones, and 
gristle, or what is called the connective tissue of the meat. 
These extractives give the aroma to the broth. 
14 



LETTER III 15 

The scum, or albumen, when coming to the surface, has to 
be removed by a skimmer in order to get a clear broth. To 
leave it in would make the soup 'unsightly, and besides albu- 
men, when coagulated, is not easily digested. The meat which 
remains after all the good is drawn out is worthless, and if 
eaten will not be digested, even by a healthy stomach. Since 
this meat is refuse, I advise cutting it into small pieces before 
putting it in the soup-kettle, adding the bones separately. In 
this way there is no doubt of the meat yielding in the course 
of several hours all it contains. I must not forget to mention 
that for broth but only for broth meat freshly Tomakesou 
butchered is the best. And, now, before pro- get meat freshly 

, , . ... butchered. 

ceedmg to tell you when to add the vegetables, 
which are to increase the flavor of the soup-liquor, and the 
proportions, I will stop and give you the recipe for making a 
broth which preserves all the nutrients of the meat and for 
cases of debility, sickness, or convalescence is invaluable. It 
is made without fuel of any kind. 

Take three ounces of freshly butchered meat of the best sort, 
without fat or sine\v (either beef or fowl) ; chop it fine, put it 
in a china bowl, and cover it with water which 
has been boiled and become cold (or better, dis- 
tilled water from the druggist's), until one inch ^Vmeat 
above the meat. Then add a pinch of salt, and 
five to six drops of muriatic acid ; stir well this mixture by 
means of a small glass spoon ; cover up the bowl and let it re- 
main in a cool place for three to four hours. At the end of 
that time strain the liquid, which has a pale red color, through 
a hair sieve ; pour over the meat some more of the water, 
while pressing it down with a wooden ladle, until it gets 
entirely discolored and you have liquor sufficient to fill a 
large teacup quite full. This is enough for one portion. Two 
such cups are the most a person ought to take during one day. 
It is in liquid form the same as the meat itself. 

I return now to the ordinary soup-liquor, and will sum up 
the whole for you thus : 

Take of lean meat freshly butchered one pound, of bones 



16 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

one pound ; cut the meat in large dice \ crack the bones ; put 
Red efor a ^ ^ n ^ sou P'kettle holding a little over three 

the ordinary quarts ; fill up with cold water nearly full ; add 
one saltspoonful of salt. Heat slowly, allowing it 
to simmer or boil gently ; skim off the scum that rises. After 
one hour add two more saltspoonfuls of salt, and continue boil- 
ing until the liquor is clear. Then add your vegetables : a small 
carrot or a piece of a large one, a parsley root, the half of a 
celery root (the turnip-rooted), one or two of the large celery 
leaves, one small leek (it is more delicate than onion), half a 
turnip. Allow it to boil one hour longer, or until the vege- 
tables are done, when strain through a fine sieve; allow the fat 
to settle on top, and skim it off with care. 

Some housekeepers are in favor of making their soup-liquor 
the day before it is to be used, in order to remove the fat more 
readily. Except for economy's sake, or to save time, I prefer 
to cook it the same day I want to use it, because in reheating 
the broth some of its flavor is certainly lost. With clean sheets 
of blotting paper the remaining traces of the soup-grease are 
easily and thoroughly removed. The brown paper of the gro- 
cers will also do it. 

See that your soup-kettle is always tightly covered, lest the 
aroma of your soup escape with the steam. I will add, for the 
benefit of your economical propensities, that the soup-vegeta- 
bles, by not being overdone, may be put to some further use. 
They have given, to be sure, their best properties to the broth, 
but in exchange they have taken to themselves the broth which 
has entered their cells. 

For the benefit of the German middle classes, who make 
a meal of their soup, in which the meat and a vegetable 
are boiled, Dr. Wiel, in his " Diaetetisches Kochbuch," gives a 
recipe for "a better piece of meat, and yet a good soup." 
The sum of what he says is this : 

Divide your meat into two portions, one containing all the 
sinewy parts, and the bones with the meat next to them, while 
the other must be a piece of solid meat. Chop the meat of 
the first portion, split the bones, and pour cold water over it. 



LETTER III 17 

For one pound of meat take three quarts of water, which will 
give you about one quart of good strong broth 
in the end. After putting in sufficient salt, some g^ tou^and 
muriatic acid (from the druggist's) must be added. ;** e u e meat 
For one pound of meat about six drops, no 
more. Allow to stand in a cold place for a couple of hours ; 
during this time the water will extract all the strength of the 
meat. Then heat it gradually, and when it comes to a boil, 
and not before, put in the second portion of solid meat, after 
tying it up tight with strong twine. By this process less of the 
surface of the meat is exposed, and the boiling water produces 
an impenetrable crust by coagulation, thus preventing the loss 
of the nutritive juices. Allow the whole to boil gently until 
the meat is tender. Put your vegetables in after the broth has 
been skimmed. 

It is well to know this recipe for economical purposes. A 
piece of meat boiled in this way makes a good dish for break- 
fast, either as a hash, a stew, or in the shape of croquettes. It 
may also serve to help out on the kitchen table. For econ- 
omy's sake also, I would advise you (since we want a soup to 
begin dinner with) not to buy soup-meat oftener than twice a 
week. If a first-class broth is not needed do not exhaust the 
whole of your soup-meat and bones. Drain off the liquor 
wanted for the day, refill the kettle with water, adding such 
scraps of meat, cooked or raw, as have been left over or cannot 
be used in other ways ; add bones also if you have them. 
Always crack the latter. Add some more salt and cook up. 
Let stand over until next day when fresh vegetables can be put 
in after it has come to a boil. I have often made a third edi- 
tion by adding Liebig's meat extract. This you may always 
do if your broth is not of sufficiently good quality. Only be 
sure not to take too much of it. Meat extract containing 
all the extractives, but not the albumen of the meat is a stim- 
ulant rather than a nutritive, and as such is fulfilling an impor- 
tant part in the process of nutrition. As a stimulant, however, 
it is powerful enough to affect the heart if taken in too large 
a quantity. A heaped teaspoonful is sufficient for a quart 



18 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

of soup; or, take a lump the size of a dried bean for a 
plateful. 

This may be the proper time to make you acquainted with 
the way Liebig himself had the meat extract used in his own 
household, instead of broth made of fresh meat : 

Take two quarts of cold water ; put in it either half a pound 

of cracked marrow-bones or one ounce of beef suet, and such 

vegetables as are handy ; boil until the latter are 

u!fng^is w meat f done, which takes about one hour. Now strain 

mS f ou ^ e h*} 11 ^, anc ^ ac ^^ half an ounce good weight of 

meat extract, and the necessary salt. This is 

soup-liquor sufficient for seven persons. 

The flavor of broth can be improved or varied by taking dif- 
ferent kinds of meat at the same time ; as, for instance, adding 
a slice of ham to veal, or a piece of liver to beef. If amber- 
Amber-coiored colored broth is wanted the vegetables may be 
broth. sliced thin and fried brown with a very little butter 

before being added to the liquor in the soup-kettle. Fat meat 
is not the proper kind for the soup-pot. An old chicken 
makes an excellent soup of delicate flavor. Venison, game, 
and pigeons make as nourishing a soup as can be. In Catholic 
countries a good soup is made of various fish. But even water 
soups can be made exceedingly palatable. A good way to im- 
prove both the taste and nutritive value of soup, is to add one 
or more eggs. In doing so care has to be taken to prevent 
curdling. Beat up the egg thoroughly with a tablespoonful of 
either water, milk, or cream ; add slowly a ladleful of the hot 
soup after removing it from the fire, stirring all the while. 
Then add this to the soup, stirring also ; or, better, pour it into 
the soup-tureen, and add the soup to it while stirring. In 
using the whole egg we have the benefit of the white, which 
being largely albumen increases the nutritive value of the soup ; 
but in using the yolk merely, a velvety smoothness of the soup 
is attained, which is marred by the white of the egg. There- 
fore, you may choose between the two as you judge best. 
Whenever I take the yolk and not the white, I am in the habit 
of saving the latter, and using it with another egg, or with 



LETTER III 19 

two, for croquettes, pancakes, etc. When I have as many as 
three or four whites, I use them for making a delicate white- 
of-egg pudding of which hereafter. 

A small remnant of a vegetable dish added to a soup it 
must harmonize, to be sure, with the rest is a good thing 
often ; but the best vegetable to add is tomato, occasional addi- 
which never spoils a rice, macaroni, vermicelli, tions to soup> 
or vegetable soup. Another very nice addition is "roses" of 
cauliflower, or bits of asparagus boiled until just done in the soup 
itself. In this way they impart their flavor and best properties 
to the soup ; which is not so much the case if boiled by them- 
selves in salt water, unless the water is added to the soup with 
them. Certain soups are also improved by some minced pars- 
ley, which had better be put into the tureen just before the 
soup is poured in, or it might lose its aromatic property. In 
the south of Germany they add cives cut very fine ; but this is 
a matter of individual taste. Bread is often added too. Cut 
some of your stale pieces into either small dice or thin well- 
shaped slices ; have ready a hot frying-pan ; put in a very small 
bit of butter, or pork drippings (chicken fat is very good), and 
after it is done hissing put in your bread, tossing or stirring it 
frequently, until of a rich yellow or brown on all sides ; keep 
hot and dry, and either add to the soup-tureen the last moment, 
or have it served and handed around separately. 

I might go on indefinitely to theorize in this fashion about 
soups, and teach you the "composing " of them without giving 
you a single recipe. I will, however, stop short, and give you 
some detailed samples in my next. 



LETTER IV 

Je vis de bonne soupe et non de beau langage, MOLIERE. 

THE soup is, according to Brillat-Savarin, our philosopher of 
the kitchen, " la premiere consolation de Pestomac besoi- 
gneux " the prime comfort of the eager stomach. The French, 
About soup Germans, and Italians have it on their table every 

in general. ^ av to b e gj n dinner with. As for their poor it is 

often all they have for their mid-day meal. The middle classes 
are apt to make their soup the nucleus of their dinner by 
adding the rest of the meal to the soup-pot and serving it on 
separate dishes. In the south of Germany soup is eaten at 
dinner and at supper by many a family of the upper classes 
a custom which seems to be very old elsewhere, if we are to 
judge from a French proverb dating centuries back, which 
says : 

Without his soup at eve and morn 
Is my good Christian all forlorn. 1 

I said before that soup-liquor is more of a stimulant than 
a nutrient. It is owing to the substances you add that, as 
soup, it becomes more or less nourishing. The following ex- 
ample will demonstrate to you how nourishing it can be made 
by study. The recipe is called 

Rumford Soup from its inventor, and is composed on the 
principle of getting what is necessary to nourish in the cheapest 
way. It was for his merit in bettering the condition of the 
poorer classes that Benjamin Thompson, an American, was 
made Count Rumford by the Prince- Elector of Bavaria in the 



" Soupe le soir, soupe le matin, 
C'est 1'ordinaire du bon chretien." 



20 



LETTER IV 21 

beginning of the century. Being a scholar in national economy 
he found out by means of chemical researches how to obtain 
nourishment at lowest cost. It is by the Rumford Soup that he 
is now chiefly remembered. There are several versions of this 
soup. I have tried the following, and found it not only satisfy- 
ing to the appetite but also palatable. 

Soak three cups of dried peas over night ; put them to cook 
with plenty of cold water ; when they come to a boil add three- 
quarters of a pound of fresh pork, one cup of R ec ipefor 
barley, and the necessary salt. Now get ready Rumford Soup, 
four large potatoes, peel, wash, and slice them, and add them 
to the above about half an hour before meal-time. Allow at 
least three hours for peas and barley to get pulpy and for the 
pork to get done. Add boiling water if necessary to thin the 
soup, but it ought to be rather thick. When done remove the 
pork, cut it in dice and set it away in the covered tureen in a 
warm place. Pour the soup in a colander and strain, rubbing 
it through with a potato-masher. Heat up again the strained 
soup, add some minced parsley to the pork in the tureen and 
serve your soup over it. 

Now let us see what nutrients we have in this recipe. The 
following table will show it : 

ALBUMINOIDS. FATS. CARBOHYDRATES. 

Peas 23 percent. 2 percent. 52 percent. 

Barley 7.5 per cent. i per cent. 76 per cent. 

Potatoes 2 percent. o percent. 20.7 per cent. 

Fat pork (bones excepted) . . 14.5 per cent. 37.5 per cent. o per cent. 

Total 47 percent. 40.5 per cent. 148.7 per cent. 

In adding the fat to the carbohydrates you will find that the 
total is pretty nearly as one to four, which is the proportion 
necessary to give proper nourishment and keep the system in 
a healthy condition. 

Since charity is a virtue to be practised in every household, 
you will remember this recipe when a poor man or woman, or 
whole family, is to be fed. Only see that they get enough of 
the ingredients to make up as near as possible the ration each 
person needs every day. I would advise to put this soup on 



22 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

your own table now and then when you happen to have but a 
slender steak to follow, or perhaps a dish made of some rem- 
nant of the day before some croquettes, or a stew and no 
roast. For, mind you, we please ourselves (our husbands in- 
cluded) in this, that we do not ape the wealthy in a profusion 
of meats and courses, which would soon exhaust our funds and 
the capabilities of our husbands to furnish them. We are of 
one opinion in this, as you have assured me, that a simple meal, 
as long as it supplies the needful nourishment, is a comfort all 
around, if only prepared with care and served "with grace," 
as Brillat-Savarin ordains for the pheasant. It saves both time 
and labor. It promotes health and cheerfulness. 

To be able to select the soup best suited for the day it is 
well to consider our subject under three different heads : 
Soups divided soups made of preparations of cereals, those 
into three classes. ma( j e o f vegetables, and those made from animal 
substances. Fish soups, although properly included in the 
latter class, I will leave out for the present. 

For the first kind of soups we have chiefly wheat flour, farina, 
barley, sago, rice, vermicelli. These are rich in starch, which 
belongs to the carbohydrates, as you know, and take rank in 
this way : 

ALBUMINOIDS. FATS. CARBOHYDRATES. 

Wheat flour 10 per cent. I per cent. 75.2 per cent. 

Farina 10 percent. I percent. 75.2 per cent. 

Vermicelli 9 per cent. 0.5 per cent. 76.5 per cent. 

Rice 8 per cent. i per cent. 76.5 per cent. 

Barley 7.5 per cent. i per cent. 76 per cent. 

Of the vegetables as nutrients there is not much to say, their 
value as such ranking rather low, with the exception of dried 
peas, beans, and lentils. These three are valuable, as the fol- 
lowing shows : 

ALBUMINOIDS. FATS. CARBOHYDRATES. 

Peas 23 per cent. 2 per cent. 52 per cent. 

Beans 23 per cent. 2 per cent. 53.3 per cent. 

Lentils 25.5 per cent. 2 per cent. 54 per cent. 

But valuable as they are, they require good digestive capacity, 
and therefore may be kept in reserve, while preference is given 



LETTER IV 23 

to the more delicate although less nutritious vegetables for 
soups. 

The third kind of soups those consisting of animal sub- 
stances are the most nourishing if made of chopped meat, 
such as beef, venison, chicken, pigeon, game, sweetbread, calf s 
brain, etc. 

Of each of these three kinds of soups you may borrow for 
the other two. You can add, for instance, vegetables to the 
cereal products ; or animal matter to a vegetable soup ; or you 
may mix ingredients belonging to all three classes of soups. 
Only take care that each substance is in harmony with the 
other, and that the whole is agreeable to the eye as well as to 
the taste. 

To begin with the starchy matters, it is a safe rule to take a 
tablespoonful for each person of either farina, barley, rice, etc. 
They are added to the boiling liquor while stirring Soups made 
to prevent the forming of lumps. Boil gently. ofcereals - 
As to time, farina takes about fifteen minutes to get done ; 
sago, about five minutes, or until clear; barley, from one to 
two hours to get properly cooked. Rice takes about half an 
hour in soup. It has to be washed and scalded beforehand. 
Vermicelli, according to thickness, takes from five to forty 
minutes to get done. 

I will remark here that I always mean my recipes for three 
persons, unless differently stated. I begin with some plain 
soup : 

Farina Soup. Take the finest wheat farina, measure off 
your quantity (a tablespoonful for each person) ; stir gradually 
into your boiling liquor (about half a pint for a person) ; cover 
up, and let boil for fifteen minutes, stirring the soup every now 
and then with a spoon. Have the yolk of one egg beaten up 
with a tablespoonful of cream (or milk) ; add this at the last 
moment, proceeding as told before. 1 Salt to taste. This soup 
ought to be of a creamy smoothness. 

Flour Soup No. i. Mix two tablespoonfuls of flour with a 

1 See p. 18. 



24 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

little cold water, and stir until quite smooth ; add to it gradu- 
ally, and stirring all the while, one and a half pints of boiling 
broth; flavor with a little lemon peel, which remove before 
serving ; put on to boil for ten minutes ; then add butter the 
size of a walnut and the yolk of an egg beaten up with some 
cream or milk. Salt to taste ; add a sprinkle of grated nutmeg. 
Flour Soup No. 2. Take butter, one and a half ounces 
(or size of small egg) ; melt, and stir into it two tablespoonfuls 
of flour. When bubbling up add little by little one and a half 
pints of broth, stirring until quite smooth ; add one teaspoonful 
of minced parsley and one egg beaten up in two tablespoonfuls 
of thick cream. Salt to taste. 

To this soup as well as to those follqwing you can make ad- 
ditions of cauliflower, green peas, asparagus, if they happen to 
be handy, or whatever else you see fit. Remember also the 
proportions mentioned before and apply them to the following 
recipe. This is of French origin : 

Velvety Soup (Potage Veloute) . Take pearl sago (the 
best), stir it into your boiling broth, and cook until clear; add 
one yolk for each person (two will do for three persons), beat 
it up with cream. Salt to taste. 

Omelet Soup. Make a pancake batter of one egg, milk, 
flour, a little salt, and a sprinkle of either minced parsley or 
cives, which bake thin and not too brown in a buttered frying- 
pan ; when done, put on a bread-board and cut into very nar- 
row strips ; put into the soup-tureen, and serve over them a 
clear broth. 

If you have mutton for the foundation of your soup, rice or 
barley will be best to use. Take rather more than usual of the 
soup vegetables for this broth, especially celery root and leaves ; 
also a clove, a bay leaf, and a few pepper seeds. 

Barley Soup No. i. Take pearl barley; stir into boiling 
water nearly one pint to three tablespoonfuls to which 
add a small piece of butter, a little salt, and turnip-rooted 
celery cut into small dice ; cook gently (covered up) for about 
two hours, seeing that the barley gradually takes up all the water, 
but do not let it get dry. When done add your broth to it ; let 



LETTER IV 25 

come to a boil, and serve over one or two eggs beaten up 
with cream or milk. 

Barley Soup No. 2. Take the coarse-grained barley; do 
as before, leaving out the celery root. After the barley is 
about half done add the meat-liquor, and finish cooking it 
until quite soft. Rub through a wire sieve, add egg and 
cream, and serve over crisply fried bread, or little bread balls, 
of which later. 

All these soups may be served without the egg, if the broth 
is a first-rate one. 

Rice-flour Soup. Take one ounce of rice flour (two table- 
spoonfuls) ; stir until smooth in one gill of cold soup-liquor ; 
add to it one and a half pints of the boiling liquor, and cook 
for ten minutes, stirring all the while. Add now two or three 
tablespoon fuls of cream (hot), a sprinkle of white pepper 
or nutmeg, and salt to taste. After poured into the tureen 
put on top of the soup some custard, which is made in the 
following way : 

Custard for Soups. Take two whole eggs and one yolk; 
beat well with one gill of cold soup-liquor (water will do), a 
pinch of salt, and a dash of grated nutmeg ; pour into an 
earthen bowl or mug, place into a cooking-vessel with hot 
water, and allow it to be heated until the eggs have set, and no 
longer. Take out a spoonful at a time ; or turn out the cus- 
tard and cut it into small, equally long strips by means of a 
fluted knife. 

This custard may be added to other soups, especially when 
clear and made of vegetables. 

The above recipe for rice-flour soup is a German one. I 
have an English recipe which is the same, but leaves out the 
custard, flavors the soup with a saltspoonful of curry-powder, 
and a squeeze of lemon. 

A very good and showy soup is the following : 

Soup with Moulded Rice. Have a first-rate beef broth, 
amber-colored and clear. Take of rice, well washed and 
scalded, six ounces ; of butter, three ounces ; put into one 
quart of boiling broth, which may be of inferior quality (water 



26 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

will do also) ; see that the liquid is salted exactly right ; boil 
covered up for half an hour ; then set uncovered in a hot place 
until all the liquid left is evaporated, when you empty the rice 
into a deep mould. Press it down to have it take the shape of 
the mould. Set it in a moderately warm place for a while, and 
when ready to serve turn the rice out of the mould on a hot 
plate. Dust all over it some grated Parmesan cheese. Or 
have the cheese handed around separately, and pour over the 
rice some melted crayfish butter, garnishing its base or not with 
either shrimps, crayfish tails, buttonhole mushrooms, or forcemeat 
balls, or with all of these. Have the rice handed around with 
each plate of broth from the tureen. It is rice enough for six 
persons. 

The scarlet-colored butter made of crayfish or sweet water 
crab, comes handy in tiny tin boxes. Although an expensive 
article, a small quantity will go very far both to color and to 
flavor ; and put away in a cool place this butter will keep, after 
the box has been opened, for weeks. The crayfish tails are 
also imported, ready for use, in small glass jars. 

I will give you only one more recipe of this kind of soups, 
a vermicelli soup, to which we gave the name : 

Potage aux Voyageurs (Travellers' Soup). 1 Take either 
chicken or veal broth ; cook vermicelli in it, of the thick 
kind, until soft, but not so that it falls to pieces. When done 
beat up one or more yolks of egg in half a cupful of cream ; 
add to the soup with a squeeze of lemon juice, and serve 
with grated Parmesan cheese. If you take a tablespoonful of 
sour instead of sweet cream, you will not need the lemon 
juice. 

Before I proceed I will make you acquainted with some 
accessories to soups, which are apt to improve especially the 

Accessories vegetable soups, and often are the most nutri- 
to soups. t j ous p arts O f them< 

Since you will need bread for nearly all of the following 
recipes, I remind you that to be economical every piece and 

1 See Bayard Taylor's " Travels in Greece," p. 218. 



. LETTER IV 27 

chip of bread has to be saved, and kept for future use in a 
clean jar or box. The slices can be cut into any shape required, 
whilst the odds and ends after accumulation are to be put on 
the back of the stove or range to get perfectly dry, which makes 
them fit to be rolled into fine crumbs, by means of the rolling- 
pin. They ought to be kept in a covered glass or porcelain 
jar until needed. Just now we want some thick slices of stale 
bread to add let us say to a green pea soup. 

Golden Dice. Cut bread into large dice ; beat up one egg 
in a few tablespoonfuls of milk, to which add a bit of salt ; soak 
the bread in it for half an hour, then fry it until of a fine yellow 
in hot lard. Skim out of the lard on a piece of brown paper 
placed on a colander. 

Cheese Crusts {croutons). Cut some thin slices of bread 
into round or oval shaped pieces ; dip the upper side into 
melted butter, and cover thickly with grated Parmesan or 
Swiss cheese ; place these pieces on a sheet iron baking-pan 
or a pie-dish, and put into the oven until of a deep yellow. 
They are handed with the soup. 

I was present at a dinner where the croutons were dry-toasted 
on the under side, while on top the bread was spread with fresh 
butter covered with grated cheese. They were handed with a 
Julienne soup. 

Next we have forcemeat and bread balls. The latter are the 
easiest made, and the more economical additions to soups as 
well as to fricassees, etc. 

Bread Balls. Take two ounces of butter, and melt it ; add 
four to five tablespoonfuls of fine bread-crumbs, a saltspoonful 
of salt, a little nutmeg or pepper ; mix, then add one whole 
egg and one yolk ; mix again, and stir until smooth and light. 
Form little balls the size of hickory nuts, and drop them either 
into boiling water salted or the boiling soup. Cover up, and 
allow to boil from ten to fifteen minutes. 

It is always best to try one ball first by cooking it before the 
rest. If it cooks to pieces some more bread-crumbs, if too hard 
a tablespoonful of cream (sour is the best), has to be added. 
This rule holds good with all the recipes for balls and dumplings. 



28 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

Sponge Balls. Take the whites of two eggs and put them 
into a teacup ; fill it up with milk, and pour the contents into 
a stew-pan ; add one teacupful of flour and one ounce of 
butter (or size of an egg) ; stir well over the fire until the 
batter is thick and smooth ; set it to cool, after which stir into 
it the two yolks, a few pinches of salt, a pinch of mace (if 
liked), and drop into the boiling soup a teaspoonful at a time. 
Cook from eight to ten minutes. 

Marrow Balls. Take two ounces of beef suet; soak in 
water for one hour to whiten it ; chop fine ; melt it over the 
fire, and strain into a large bowl. When nearly cooled off stir 
it with a spoon until creamy ; drop into it the yolk of an egg 
and, after stirring a while, a whole egg, half a saltspoonful of 
salt, half a teaspoonful of minced onion, and one teaspoonful 
of minced parsley ; at the last add three tablespoonfuls of fine 
bread-crumbs. Form into balls as big as a walnut by means of 
two spoons, which dip into boiling water every now and then. 
Place the balls one beside the other on a flat pie-dish which has 
been buttered previously. When ready to put them into the 
boiling water, or soup, heat the dish. The balls will drop easily 
into the cooking-vessel. Boil gently for about ten to fifteen 
minutes. 

Forcemeat Balls. Take half a pound of raw veal (or 
chicken) ; mince very fine ; soak two ounces of bread (no 
crust) in milk; when soft put it in a clean towel and squeeze 
until dry ; add two ounces of butter and the yolks of two eggs, 
pound the whole in a mortar, and force through a fine sieve ; 
season with salt, white pepper, and nutmeg, and form into 
almond-shaped balls by taking a teaspoonful of it, heaped full, at 
a time, shaping it at the top into a point, and smoothing it 
down by means of a knife dipped in water. Cook about ten 
minutes in soup-liquor. 

Ham Dumplings. Proceed as above, taking raw ham in- 
stead of veal, and season with either minced onion or parsley, 
instead of nutmeg, leaving out the salt. Do not take the 
trouble to force it through a sieve, but stir until smooth and 
light. Form rather large balls about the size of a small egg 



LETTER IV 29 

and cook for twenty minutes to half an hour. They must be 
as light as sponge when cut with the spoon, and are very good 
in a soup of clear broth. This is a recipe from Bavaria, south- 
ern Germany. 

To-day's lesson having been long enough, I will stop here 
to continue in my next letter the chapter on soups. 



LETTER V 

They are very different thoughts born within man well nourished and 
man miserable and hungry. DR. J. N. VON NUSSBAUM. 

YOU are right, my teachings are tinctured to some extent 
by what I learned during the years I spent in Germany. I 
there became acquainted with the thrifty spirit of the better 
classes of the people, and with their ways of making a great deal 
out of a very little. The French in this respect do the same. 
Give them poor materials, and they will set before you a dainty 
meal. We, who have the best of everything, ought to do 
equally well, if not better. 

Of a great number of recipes for vegetable soups which 

I have at my command, I will select some typical ones, 

leaving it to you to vary and improve on them. 

Vegetable soups. _ / J 

ror you understand that it is not my inten- 
tion to write for you a regular cook-book. After you become 
familiar with the spirit of the art of cookery, you will continue 
after the beginning you have made to teach yourself far 
better than any one else could do it. 

Julienne Soup. Take one carrot, a quarter of a white 
turnip, a quarter of a celery-root, half a parsnip, one small leek, 
about four leaves of a head of lettuce, and a quarter of the 
tender inside of a head of Savoy cabbage. Cut all this in nar- 
row strips, about two inches long, stew for half an hour in one 
ounce of butter ; but see that it does not get brown or stick to 
the vessel. Then add one quart of good, clear broth and boil 
the vegetables in it gently for one hour. According to the 
season, you may add to the foregoing vegetables some heads 
of asparagus, tender green peas, and string beans, cooked sepa- 
rately. Observe that this soup, after adding the broth to the 
30 



LETTER V 31 

vegetables done in butter, has to boil very gently to prevent 
the broth from getting cloudy. Serve with this soup some 
browned bread, or, if preferred, serve it over some boiled rice. 
A heaped tablespoonful of the latter will be sufficient for the 
above quantity of soup. 

There is a general belief that herbs eaten in springtime are 
especially wholesome. The following recipe, taking this into 
account, is termed : 

Easter Soup. Gather the young sprouts and leaves of wild 
herbs when their first shoots appear, such as dandelion, sheep- 
sorrel, yarrow, nettle, lady's-mantle {Alchemilla vulgaris), 
strawberry leaves, etc. Take a handful of each ; rinse repeat- 
edly in cold water and drain in a colander. Do not squeeze 
them, lest you lose some of their juices. Chop fine ; put into 
some good broth, and boil gently for about half an hour. Mix 
butter the size of a walnut with a teaspoonful of flour and drop 
it into half a cup of boiling cream or milk. When cooking has 
dissolved it, add it to the soup. Serve with poached eggs on 
top, or the custard the recipe of which I gave you in my 
last. 

Carrot Soup. Take two large carrots, one small turnip, 
half a celery root, one leek ; boil in water which has been 
salted, adding butter the size of half an egg. When soft, drain 
and work through a sieve with a potato-masher. Add this pulp 
to the soup-liquor. 

This soup is improved by an addition of rice. The latter in 
combination with Savoy cabbage is excellent if the whitish part 
of the inside head only is taken, and cut into fine shreds. 

Asparagus Soup. Take half a pound of fresh asparagus, 
cut off the heads, and boil separately in salted water until done, 
which will be in about fifteen minutes. Cut the rest into small 
pieces, throw them into boiling broth (which need not be of 
the best) and cook gently for one hour. Then pass through 
a fine colander ; put it back on the fire to boil up. Add the 
asparagus heads, and the yolks of one or two eggs beaten up in 
half a cup of cream. 

Green Pea Soup. Take half a pint of large green peas, and 



32 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

a handful of both spinach leaves and parsley (which serve as 
coloring-matter). Cook the whole in some weak broth until 
quite soft ; rub through a fine colander ; put back on the fire, 
and let it come to a boil ; add a piece of butter the size of a 
walnut, and a handful of small green peas cooked separately. 
Some roses of cauliflower may be added ; or some of the little 
balls I gave you the recipes for. 

An Italian soup, called Risi-pisi, consists of green peas 
pulped through a sieve and mixed with boiled rice. 

Corn Soup. Take a couple of ears of corn ; grate off the 
top skin of the grains all around them and by means of a tin 
spoon scoop out the milk and what is left of the grains. Stir 
the pulp thus obtained into boiling broth, and allow it to cook 
about an hour. Add a small lump of butter rolled in flour, and 
half a cup of cream or milk. 

Some tomato, either fresh or left over from a previous meal, 
is a good addition to corn soup. To make it still better, take 
Tomato, com, I GSS of the corn, and add half a dozen okra pods 
and okra for soup. S \[ CG ^ thin. Leave off the flour, and take of 
cream but one teaspoon, mixed with the yellow of an egg. 

A tomato soup without any accessories but milk, butter, salt, 
pepper, and cracker-crumbs is a very simple affair, and very 
good, indeed, but I would class it rather with the water soups. 
Tomato soup with rice is excellent when milk is left out, and a 
good broth is used instead of water. 

The following I consider a very good recipe : 

Tomato Soup. Take about ten tomatoes ; cut them in 
pieces ; cook them with a quarter of a pound of ham, one 
onion in which stick a clove, a sprig of parsley, two pepper- 
corns, half a bay leaf (no salt on account of the ham) ; after 
half an hour drop into it butter size of a walnut mixed with a 
heaped teaspoonful of flour ; allow to dissolve while boiling, 
and rub through a wire sieve. Salt to taste. Add to a broth 
in which two or three teaspoonfuls of either very fine vermi- 
celli or starlets of vermicelli have been cooked. 

Tomato and okra seem to have been specially designed by 
nature to complement each other, the acid liquid of the one 



LETTER V 33 

being in accordance with the glutinous and grassy insipidity of 
the other. In the Southern States people found Tomato and 
this out long ago, and the result has been the okra combined - 
gumbo soup. There are a great many varieties of recipes for 
this soup, most of them of an extravagant character. Okra 
grows readily in our gardens North, and makes a first-rate soup 
in combination with a "Julienne," an addition of tomato, and 
a bunch of thyme, sweet marjoram, and parsley, the bunch be- 
ing removed before serving the soup. The following is a 
Georgia recipe for a plain 

Gumbo Soup. Take fresh tomatoes and okra in equal quan- 
tities, slice them ; cook gently in some beef liquor for several 
hours ; season to taste. Boil rice separately, and serve with the 
soup. 

Black Bean Soup. Soak over night one teacupful of black 
Mexican beans. Next day put them on to boil in three pints 
of cold water (if the water is hard add a pinch of baking soda, 
which will make it soft), and add any scraps of pork or ham 
you happen to have on hand. Add the salted meat after the 
water is tepid. Be careful in salting this soup. After the beans 
come to a boil add one small onion, and one clove. When 
quite done pulp the beans through a colander fine enough to 
retain the skins. Add more water, or some soup-liquor, if too 
thick. Serve over one or two hard-boiled eggs cut in quarters, 
and half a lemon sliced. If liked, add a tablespoonful of sherry 
at the last moment. 

The taste of this soup very much resembles that made of turtle. 

We have got now as far as the bean, pea, and lentil soups 
all three of them very nourishing. You may use for them 
either broth or water, just as your judgment leads soups made 
you to do. If broth, scraps of meat left over, or of P ulse - 
a ham bone, will be sufficient for it ; but water will serve as 
well. It seems to me, therefore, that I might introduce the 
water soups here rather then later, since the best- 
tasting of them are made of vegetables. To begin 
with I have to give you two different recipes for an excellent 
foundation of a water soup. 



34 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

Imitation Broth No. i . Take one pint of dried peas ; pick 
out the bad ones and wash ; put them to boil with three pints 
Foundation for of water, and a saltspoonful of salt. When quite 
water soups. soft> pulp them through a colander. Use this 

liquid at discretion for the foundation of soups. 

Imitation Broth No. 2. Cook peas as above and strain 
them before they get soft, or rather as soon as the water turns 
yellow. Add to the latter such vegetables as carrot, turnip, 
onion, celery root, after they have been sliced and browned in 
a tablespoonful of butter, or fat. Add salt, and allow fully an 
hour to boil. If liked, a " bouquet," or bunch of thyme and 
parsley, some pepper seeds, and a small bay leaf may be added 
with the vegetables. The strained peas may be used up in some 
other way. 

Another flavoring is obtained by adding the shavings and 
fibrous parts of asparagus. They ought, therefore, to be saved 
at the right season, dried, and put away carefully in the store 
closet. 

Recipe No. i I found in a German cook-book, " The 
Perfect Lenten Fare," written by a " cook for many years " in 
a Catholic vicarage. She says this pea broth is the foundation 
for all lenten soups. 

To make soup without meat, of either dried peas, beans, 
or lentils you wash them first, then soak them over night, and 

HOW to make P ut t ^ iem on tne stov e at an early hour, with 
a good soup plenty of cold water. (Remember that hard water, 
for cooking purposes, has to be made soft by 
adding a pinch of baking soda.) Do not let them get dry, 
but replenish the water if not sufficient. Pulse takes from 
two to three hours to get thoroughly done. To raise it to 
the proper standard of nourishment, the addition of fat is 
needed. Pork drippings are the best for this purpose. Both 
pea and lentil soups are improved by adding an hour before 
meal-time some soup-vegetables, sliced and browned in fat. 
If the soup, after being rubbed through a colander, lacks con- 
sistency, a little flour mixed with butter may be added to 
thicken it. The lentil soup is improved by some lemon juice 



LETTER V 35 

or vinegar, which by softening the cellulose, or woody particles 
of this highly nourishing vegetable, helps the digestive powers 
to perform the heavy task imposed upon them by it. 

Bean soup does not need the additional vegetables. If 
liked, a small onion and a slice of bacon cut in little dice may 
be fried crisp in a hot pan, and added to the soup after it has 
been rubbed through the colander. 

All three soups are improved by serving them over bits of 
bread fried crisp in butter or fat. A sausage cooked, skinned, 
and cut into thick slices is also a pleasant addition. 

In contrast to the above vegetables potatoes have but little 
alimentary value. Still, a soup made of them is often con- 
venient, and palatable. 

Potato Soup. Take either cooked potatoes left over, and 
grate them, or peel, slice, and cook raw potatoes in salted 
water until quite soft. Add to the water a little bunch of 
sweet marjoram, an onion, and a small celery root. If grated 
potatoes are used which have been cooked before, stir them 
into the boiling liquid at the very last, and allow to boil up 
once or twice. For this sort of soup, imitation broth No. 2 is 
in order. The soup made of raw potatoes has to be rubbed 
through a colander. Add minced parsley to it, if sweet mar- 
joram is not liked. One or two eggs beaten up in some milk 
or cream will greatly improve the nourishing quality of a 
potato soup. 

By a simple process easily divined, a good many of the 
recipes for soups I have given you can be turned into water 
soups. Therefore, I will only add two more recipes. 

A Green Soup. Take one handful of garden sorrel and one 
of spinach the stripped leaves only. Wash them well; 
chop them, but not too fine, with a sprig of parsley and a few 
lettuce leaves ; toss them over the fire in hot butter the size of 
half an egg ; then add one quart of boiling water, salt, a slice 
of stale bread, one onion, one clove, and (if convenient) a 
couple of pistachio nuts peeled and cut into shreds. Allow all 
this to boil gently for one hour, and no longer. Then rub the 
whole through a sieve, and add two eggs with some cream. 



36 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

Serve either over some browned bread or some of the little 
bread balls mentioned before. Or leave away the latter as 
well as the egg, and serve the egg custard with this soup. 

Pea-pod Soup. Put to boil three pints of water ; fill the 
kettle up to the water's edge with the well-washed pods of 
fresh peas after the latter have been removed ; add one table- 
spoonful of drippings, some salt, and a few pepper seeds ; also 
some thyme, parsley, and celery leaves. Cook until the pods 
are quite soft, when strain off the liquid into another pot, and 
pound the pods in a mortar to a pulp. Now put the latter 
back into the sieve and rub through into the liquid. Heat up 
again, and add either some of the peas cooked separately or 
some young carrots sliced and cooked beforehand ; or serve 
over browned bread, etc., according to your own judgment. 

The lesson of economy this soup teaches is evident. 

We have come at last to the soups I have enumerated as 
those of the third kind. They are made chiefly of meat hashed 
Sou s mad vcr ^ ^ ne ' ^^ ^^ generally called by the French 

of chopped term puree. There are a great many varieties. 

If you mean to be economical, you will use for 
them remnants of meat. Trim it off the bones carefully, 
remove all fat and sinew, and chop it as fine as possible. The 
bones, of course, you will crack and add to the kettle in which 
the broth is simmering. Take the minced meat, toss it a few 
times over the fire in a little very hot butter. This is the thick- 
ening for your soup, which you may serve either white or 
brown, according to the meat you use. If white, you take half 
a cup of cream or milk ; drop into it, when boiling, butter and 
flour rubbed into a ball ; cook it until dissolved and smooth ; 
then add the yolks of one or two eggs, beaten up. Put the 
hashed meat into the tureen first, then the whitening with the 
egg, and at last the broth, being careful to mix the whole grad- 
ually and thoroughly. Minced parsley may be added. If the 
soup is to be brown, take butter and flour of equal quantity, 
mix it in a very hot iron pan, and continue stirring over the fire 
until evenly brown. Add enough of the broth a little at a 
time, and stirring well to make a thick brown batter ; add 



LETTER V 37 

this to the broth for your soup, let it boil up a few times, see- 
ing that it is smooth, then add your minced meat, and serve. 
With the white as well as the brown soup, an addition of either 
forcemeat, bread, or egg balls is in place. 

The above gives you the generalization of this kind of very 
nourishing soups, to which I will add some special recipes. I 
begin with a soup which " Mademoiselle Francoise " (the pseu- 
donym of a lady known in French society) invented for her 
frequent guest, Offenbach, the composer, after his years and 
labors began to tell on his health. 

Raw Meat Soup. Take a good beef broth ; boil in it some 
pearl sago ; when done, add the yolk of an egg mixed with a 
tablespoonful of tepid broth .and a little grated Parmesan cheese. 
At the very last, when already in the tureen, add, while stirring 
carefully, some raw beef free of all fat and sinew, which previ- 
ously has been chopped very fine. 

The most delicate of this kind of soups is the chicken puree, 
which goes by the name of soupe a la reine. Of the different 
recipes I know of, I select the following as being, in my opinion, 
the best, and at the same time the most practical one. 

Chicken Puree Soup (or Soupe a la Reine) . Boil an old 
hen in two quarts of water with a saltspoonfal of salt, the usual 
vegetables, one bay leaf and about six white pepperseeds. 
When the meat is quite tender, take it off the bones, remove 
the skin and tendons ; chop it first very fine, then pound it to 
a pulp in a mortar with a little butter and six blanched almonds. 1 
Meanwhile set on to boil three ounces of Carolina rice in the 
chicken liquor, freed of fat. When the rice is thoroughly soft, 
which will be in about an hour, mix with it the chicken pulp, and 
rub the whole through a wire sieve. This soup must have the 
consistency of thick cream. If too thick, add some handy soup 
liquor, or water, or milk. You may also add some yolk of egg, 
but it would change the color, which ought to be white. If 
you wish this soup to be particularly nice, take merely the 
white meat for the thickening, separating it from the dark 

1 See p. 207. 



68 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

meat, and using the latter for some forcemeat balls. The above 
is sufficient for from six to eight persons. 

Game Puree Soup. Take the bones and meat of any cooked 
game ; also the heads, necks, and giblets of the same ; stew in 
plenty of water, with a thin slice of fat bacon, an onion, half a 
small carrot, one bay leaf, and a few black pepper seeds. When 
quite soft remove the meat to a chopping-bowl and allow the 
rest to stew a while longer. Chop the meat, then pound it to a 
pulp in a mortar. Brown a scant tablespoonful of flour in but- 
ter the size of a walnut ; add it to the liquor which you strain 
off the bones, then add the pounded meat, and as much more 
broth (or water) necessary to give to your soup the proper con- 
sistency. Rub the whole through a wire sieve and serve over 
browned slices of bread. 

Sweetbread Soup. Blanch and skin one sweetbread. 1 Melt 
a piece of butter the size of a walnut, and when hot put into 
it the sweetbread with a pinch of salt, and one small onion, 
whole. Cover it up, and simmer over a slow fire until tender, 
which will be in about fifteen minutes. Then take out the 
sweetbread, and cut it into small dice. Remove the onion, 
and stir into the hot butter one tablespoonful of flour. When 
well mixed add some light-colored broth, either chicken or 
veal ; let it boil for several minutes, stirring all the while to 
prevent its getting lumpy. Add the sweetbread, and last of all 
the yolk of an egg beaten up in a few tablespoonfuls of cream. 

If you leave out the onion, this is a first-rate soup for an 
Soup for invalid. The next one, although very good, I 

an invalid. would not recommend for this purpose, owing 

to the large percentage of fatty substance contained in the 
brain. 

Calf 's Brain Soup. Soak a calf's brain for fifteen minutes 
in tepid water ; then pull off the skin ; heat butter the size of a 
walnut in a frying-pan ; put in it the brain, and stir it with a 
spoon until like mush ; dust over it some flour, and allow it to 
simmer, stirring all the time, for about five minutes longer. 

1 See p. 72. 



LETTER V 39 

Thin it with broth, rub it through a fine sieve, and put it back 
on the fire to boil up. Add some egg and cream, and serve 
over pieces of bread which have been fried crisp. 

To conclude this matter of soups, I want to give you for your 
edification play after work a sample of what our fore- 
fathers considered a fine bruce (broth) or soup. An English 
manuscript of the XV. century has the following : 

Take the intestines of a pig, and boil them gently ; cut them 
into bits, and put them in a pot with some good broth ; then 
take some white leek, peel it, and cut it into 

,, . XT i i i Two old recipes. 

small pieces. Now with some chopped onions 
add it to the former, and set on to boil the whole. Dip bread 
in some broth, and make it tasty with blood and vinegar ; put 
it into a pot, allow it to boil up with pepper and cloves, and 
send the whole to the table. With it was served an entire 
pig's head. 

Another recipe says : Take powdered rice and cook with 
milk of almond until thick ; take also gizzards of capons or 
hens, pound them in a mortar, mix with the former, put the 
whole into a pot, adding powdered cinnamon and cloves ; and 
dust some sandalwood over the whole. 

Might this be the progenitor of our chicken puree soup ? I 
leave it for you to solve. 



LETTER VI 

Too little can always take more, 
But too much can never restore. 

What say you to a piece of beef and mustard ? 

SHAKESPEARE. 

YOU ask me for a rule in salting. This is slightly embarrassing, 
for there is really no rule to rely upon. Salt is a mineral 
(chloride of sodium) which exists in all animal substances as 
_..,. , . . well as in all vegetable matters. But it does not 

Difficulties in . 

regard to the enter into them in equal proportions. There- 
fore one kind of food needs more, another less 
salt added in cooking. Fat meat, for instance, has to be salted 
more than lean meat ; and of all kinds of meat, venison and 
other game has to be salted most sparingly on account of the 
larger percentage of salt contained in the flesh already. Of the 
vegetables, all grains and those rich in starch possess very little 
salt, while spinach, for instance, has 0.6 per cent, beans have 
0.4, and figs 0.8 per cent of salt. 

Another difficulty in giving rules about salting is the differ- 
ence in the salt we buy. It is either good, i.e. pure salt, or 
bad, which means adulterated. The latter, of course, does not 
The qualities serve its full purpose. Good salt must be of a 
of pure salt. p ure S p ar kii n g w hite ; its taste must not be bitter ; 
it must not be moist, nor pack into lumps ; it must dissolve in 
water without any visible sediment, for which trial you take one 
part of salt to three of water. Salt, if adulterated, is mostly 
mixed with gypsum (sulphate of lime), which, when added in 
quantities above five per cent changes the appearance of the 
salt to a dull white. If you dissolve this salt in water, the 
latter will remain cloudy. It is more easily tested when 
coarse, than when fine. 
40 



LETTER VI 41 

It is safe in all cases to salt but slightly at first. More can 
be easily added if necessary, while an overdose of salt is diffi- 
cult and often impossible to remedy. Any kind of food if 
salted too much is spoiled. Not only is it unpleasant to the 
taste, but it also has lost its wholesome properties. For scald- 
ing vegetables or boiling macaroni you may safely take a scant 
tablespoonful of salt to every quart of water ; but in most other 
cases your taste has to judge how much or how little salt a dish 
of food needs. 

Aside from making food palatable, salt helps to digest it on 
account of its dissolvent property. It assists especially to 
liquefy fatty and albuminous substances, which salt assists 
then are more readily absorbed by the system. d| s estion - 
It is also well to know that salted water requires a higher tem- 
perature to reach the boiling-point. Thus it is a saitwiii raise 
means, by increase of heat, to render any tough- J^onhT" 
ness of fibre softer and tenderer. boiling-point 

Salt, therefore, is the one seasoning cookery cannot spare. 
This accounts for the value attached to it in all ages, and by all 
nations. Aborigines have gone to war for it. 
Homer sings of it as the divine, the noblest of of salt in 
flavors ; and in England, during the Middle Ages, past ages< 
the salt-cellar was a standard of rank. It stood in the centre 
of the table, and a gentleman sitting at the upper half thought 
himself too good to drink to one sitting at the same table 
"below the salt." A meal without salt who would relish 
it? The best, however, of all dinners is the one where the 
"Attic salt" is not lacking either. 

You have noticed that in all my recipes for broth and soups 
spice is used but sparingly. I mean by it, especially the exotic 
spices, the immoderate use of which is hurtful, The use and 
while a little of it, and of the right sort, im- value of spices, 
proves the flavor of a dish, and, like salt, helps digestion by 
promoting the secretion of the gastric juice. Therefore, a weak 
digestion is often benefited by the addition to food of pepper, 
allspice, cloves, ginger, nutmeg, cinnamon, etc. each where 
it belongs, and in small quantities ; while spice in excess will 



42 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

always work harm in the long run by irritating the mucous mem- 
TOO much spice brane, oftentimes causing malignant dyspepsia, 
is hurtful. Besides, the art of cooking goes begging as soon 

as you overcharge your soups, gravies, etc., with spice. It 
makes all food taste alike in destroying the particular flavor of 
each kind. In following, for instance, most of the English 
recipes for soups, you will have generally a taste of something 
hot burning your palate and stomach alike ; but you are hardly 
able to distinguish any other ingredients except an overdose of 
spice. 

I would warn you not to buy your spice, nor your herbs, in 
a powder. Buy them whole, and highest priced, to get them 
Buy spices and pure. They will be the cheapest in the end. 
herbs whole. jf kept in tight-fitting boxes, and ground in a 
spice- mill when needed, spices will always have their fresh aro- 
matic properties, and serve their purpose well. 

Herbs, like thyme, sage, sweet marjoram, etc., I buy in 
market when fresh from the ground. After rinsing them well, 
HOW to pre- an ^ removing what is imperfect, I dry them with 
a clean towel, and hang them up in a dry place, 
stems upward, and surrounded by a clean sheet of paper, which 
is left open below. The latter prevents the dust settling on 
them. When they are quite dry I tie the paper up all around, 
only to be opened when a sprig is needed. 

With parsley and celery leaves I do differently. I dry them 
in a cool oven, and then rub them to a powder. In order to 
remove the stems remaining, I sift the latter through a fine 
wire sieve. It is quite economical to provide for parsley in this 
way as long as cheap. It is also very convenient to have it at 
hand in the shape of a powder, instead of having to mince it, 
although the dry article is not equal to the fresh in flavor. 

Of lemons and oranges, when the juice is used for cooking, 

I cut off the peel with a sharp knife, quite thin, to be put in 

corked bottles each kind by itself with some 

now to keep J 

lemon and good brandy. More peel may be added at any 

orange peels. . , , a f - . 

time. This makes a pleasant flavoring for fruit 
sauces, puddings, and other desserts. In peeling be careful 



LETTER VI 43 

not to cut off any of the white underlying the outer yellow. 
It is of a bitter taste, and, in addition, prevents the aromatic 
oil of the peel from yielding its aroma. The juice of a sour 
orange is often preferable to lemon juice for cooking purposes. 
It imparts a most delicate flavor even to sauces accompanying 
dishes of meat or vegetables. 

You are anxious, however, to have me tell you about meat 
the staple article of food whenever the question of good 
nourishment is concerned. Of all meat, beef is Gradesof 
the highest in order. Next to it come venison nourishment 
and pigeon, especially squab, which is invaluable 
for the sick and persons of weak digestive power. But, to 
give you a clear estimate of the different grades of nutritives 
in meats, it will be necessary to figure them out in percentages. 
The following tables will show you that the fatter the meat is 
the more its large percentage of water is reduced and replaced 
by substance. 

WATER. ALBUMINOIDS. FATS. MINERAL MATTERS. 

Lean beef 76.5 21.0 1.5 i.o 

Middling fat beef 72.5 21.0 5.5 i.o 

Very fat beef 55.5 17.0 26.5 i.o 

Lean veal 78.0 20.0 i.o i.o 

Fat veal 72.5 19.0 7.5 i.o 

Middling fat mutton 76.0 17.0 6.0 i.o 

Fat mutton 48.0 15.0 36.0 i.o 

Lean pork 72.0 20.0 7.0 i.o 

Fat pork 47.0 14.5 37.5 i.o 

Chicken middling fat 75.0 20.0 4.0 i.o 

Venison 75.5 22.5 i.o i.o 

I have demonstrated to you that meat when used for the 
purpose of making broth or soup has to be treated so as to ex- 
tract its juices, leaving the fibre as refuse. The The - uicesof 
opposite treatment is necessary for all meats which meat must 

* be kept intact. 

are to serve as roasts, steaks, cutlets, stews, etc. 
With these the utmost care has to be taken that none of the 
juices leak out of the meat. They must be kept intact. If 
not, so much of the nourishment contained in the meat as will 
escape is waste material and loss to the individual to be fed. 



44 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

In order to show you how to proceed I will begin with a broiled 
beefsteak : 

Get a porterhouse steak an inch thick of about one to one 

and a half pounds. If of a well-fed ox, it contains more 

nourishment in proportion than a lower-priced 

How to broil . - , r . , . 

a beefsteak piece of the same weight. See that your fire is 
Itratt p gthe m n ~ bright and clear of smoke. Have your gridiron 

il mt a CU 



meat meant take a. long-haired brush kept for such purposes 

for food. . .. . 7 

only, dip it into the oil, and grease with it gridiron 
and steak. Have the dish hot in which to serve the latter, and 
place on it a piece of fresh butter the size of a walnut. Put your 
gridiron and meat on the fire, not so near as to burn it, and yet 
near enough for the meat to become seared over and browned in 
two or three minutes. Then turn it and allow the other side to 
get brown as quickly. In this way the albumen on the outside 
of the meat, by coming in contact with the heat, coagulates, 
and furnishes a crust through which the meat-juice cannot 
escape; it stays inside, and thus is kept intact. Place the 
steak on the dish ready to receive it ; put some salt on the 
upper side, and a sprinkle of pepper if preferred ; then turn 
this side downward to come in contact with the butter ; turn it 
back again and serve it at once. With this recipe you have the 
principle to apply to all meats meant for food. 

The roast is managed in the same way. Take a rib piece. 
Have the butcher cut it as short as he is willing to do. Or 
HOW to have him take the bones out (which you use for 

soup) and roll it up, fastening it tight with twine. 
Do not use skewers ; they make unsightly holes, and allow the 
juice to escape. Have your oven thoroughly hot. Put a tea- 
spoonful of butter, or as much suet dripping, into your meat- 
pan, and when melted and very hot, put in your roast, and 
place in the oven. Brown it on all sides as rapidly as possible 
to form that impenetrable thin crust; inside of which the par- 
ticles of water contained in the meat will develop into steam. 
This in its turn permeates the meat-fibre, softens the muscle, 
and cooks the meat in its own juices. As soon as this crust is 



LETTER VI 45 

formed the heat of the oven has to be slackened. To prevent 
the outside from burning or drying up, a little melted butter has 
to be kept in readiness with which to baste the meat from time 
to time. It takes fifteen minutes for every pound of beef to 
have the roast done rare. A quarter of an hour before it is 
done sprinkle with salt. Do not do it earlier ; for salt, being a 
dissolvent, softens the outside and extracts the juices. When 
the roast is done put it on a hot dish, clear the pan of fat, add 
a little boiling water or beef broth (one saltspoonful of Liebig's 
extract dissolved is an excellent addition) and a little salt ; let 
it boil up while loosening with a spoon the brown deposit at- 
tached to the bottom and sides of the pan. Take care not to 
dilute it too much. Strain through a fine wire sieve, and serve 
this gravy with the meat. If you should prefer your roast 
without any other gravy than the juice running out in carving 
which is the very best you could have the made gravy can be 
kept over and used afterward in various ways, as, for instance, 
in hash or soup. I have purposely given you the recipe for 
roasting in the oven, and not on the spit before the fire. Al- 
though the latter is decidedly the best, the former can produce 
as good and nourishing a roast, if strictly done in the above 
way. It is the easiest way for young housekeepers who cannot 
afford to keep an experienced cook. 

Be sure never to stick a fork into any kind of meat which is 
to appear on the table. By making holes for the juices to leak 
out, the nourishing: properties of the meat will be r 

' o r r ^ Precaution in 

reduced. I keep a pair of meat tongs in my the handling 

... e- t ii- i i -i of meat. 

kitchen for handling and turning steaks and cut- 
lets. For turning or lifting larger pieces of meat take two 
wooden ladles. 

If for any reason you wish to use a lower-priced or indiffer- 
ent piece of meat, you will do best to stew or braise it, observ- 
ing the same principles as before. Use for it a HOW to stew 
stewing-pot with a tight-fitting lid. Brown the or braise meat 
meat first on all sides in hot butter or fat. The highest 
temperature of fat is three times as hot as boiling water. 
The latter (or boiling broth) being added after the meat is 



46 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

browned will lower the heat in which the meat cooks consider- 
ably, which is necessary to steam the inside of the meat until 
tender. After adding the liquid allow it to boil up a few times ; 
then secure the lid of the cooking-vessel as tightly as possible 
and remove the latter to a place where the temperature is kept 
somewhat below the point of boiling where the contents will 
merely simmer. If allowed actually to boil, the juices inside 
the meat will dry up and the meat will be tough. From the 
time your meat begins to simmer, it will take from half an 
hour to one hour for each pound to get tender. A small piece 
will get done relatively sooner than a large piece. I will give 
you here a recipe of Mile. Francoise's for braised beef. 

Take four slices of fat bacon; brown them slightly in an 
iron pot; remove them, and brown in the fat remaining a 
Recipe for piece of beef (about four pounds of the round) 

braised beef. on a n s ^ QSf Then, take the bacon, place two of 
the slices underneath and two above the beef. Have in readi- 
ness one tablespoonful of chopped mushrooms, one teaspoon- 
ful each of minced onion, parsley, chervil, and sweet basil ; 
moisten all this with either a wineglassful of cooking sherry or 
a small cupful of broth. Add the whole to the meat, cover it 
up tightly, and let it simmer very slowly for from four to five 
hours. Be sparing with the salt on account of the salted pork. 
The liquid remaining in the pot, after the meat is taken out, 
will make a sauce to be served with it by adding some browned 
flour or roux, and some whole mushrooms, after the sauce has 
been passed through a wire sieve. 

I have given you these three recipes to show the principal 
methods to be followed in cooking meats. Keep in your mind 
the law laid down in them and apply it to all other kinds of meat. 

The time, however, which is required for cooking the differ- 
ent meats is not the same for all. Mutton has to be cooked 
Time required niore than beef; roast it fully twenty minutes for 
oTheTkfndf each pound, and five minutes more each pound 
of meat be- for a large leg of mutton. Veal and pork must be 
well done to be wholesome ; you may safely take 
half an hour for each pound, but twenty-five minutes only when 



LETTER VI 47 

your roast is a loin. Chicken and turkey require twenty min- 
utes each pound, but spring chickens are done in fifteen min- 
utes, and so are all small birds. Pigeons and partridges require 
half an hour, prairie chickens three-quarters of an hour. 

I now return to the beef, than which for nourishment, if 
properly treated, there is nothing better. The rib piece, by 
which I demonstrated to you the principle at the Respective 
base of roasting, is surpassed in succulence by the value of differ- 

... , . -, ii. , ent cuts of beef. 

sirloin and the filet, or tenderloin respectively 
the outer and inner parts of the loin. The filet, bare 0f all 
bone, by itself, is sold disproportionately high in price in the 
large cities, and therefore is not recommendable for small 
households like yours and mine. But, after all, you might 
some day have occasion for a filet-roast, and will then be glad 
to have the following recipe for filet of beef a la jardiniere. 
For this piece of meat, eight minutes' cooking for Rec| e for 
each pound is sufficient, if meant to be rare: fiietofbeef 

. . . , -IT-. 11 a la jardiniere. 

otherwise ten minutes each pound. Remove both 
fat and skin the latter very carefully, with a sharp-pointed 
knife, so as not to cut into the flesh. Lard it on top as closely 
as possible in several rows. Have a dripping-pan hot, melt in 
it some butter a piece the size of an egg for every two 
pounds. When right hot put in your filet and brown it rapidly 
on all sides. Then continue to roast with moderate heat. 
Baste frequently with the butter in the pan. Sprinkle with 
some salt when in the oven half an hour, and finish basting 
with a cupful of cream. If preferred, a few spoonfuls of beef 
broth can be added to the butter in the pan, instead of basting 
with cream. Take the fat off the gravy, strain it, and serve it 
poured over the filet. Surround the latter with different kinds 
of vegetables, as young carrots, green peas, Brussels sprouts, 
" roses " of cauliflower, chestnuts, mushrooms, etc. Arrange 
them in little bunches, or bouquets, each kind by itself, and if 
tomatoes are in season divide each bouquet by a large stuffed 
tomato. 

It is very likely that you will nave part of the filet left over, 
of which remnant you wish to make the most. This is the 



48 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

special way in which I use up cold beefsteak or roast beef: 
Scorch a scant tablespoonful of flour in a table- 
UiJ* Remnants spoonful of drippings ; add soup liquor sufficient 
and^oSbeef to ma ^ e a thick sauce, stirring all the while until 
smooth ; add salt and pepper, a teaspoonful of 
lemon juice, and as much, or more, of mushroom catsup. 
When ready add the meat, either cut in dice or in thin slices, 
and stir until completely immersed in the sauce ; cover up 
tightly, and set either on a vessel of boiling water, or on a 
place where the meat gets heated through, but does not boil. 
In fifteen minutes it will be ready to serve. Another way is 
this, which is given by Alexandre Dumas, who was never hap- 
pier than when able to don the white apron and cook a meal 
for one or more friends : 

For "beef en matelotte" peel some small onions and put 
them in a saucepan with some butter ; place them over a slow 
Recipe for beef nre until of a light brown ; dust over them a table- 
enmateiotte. spoonful of flour, and continue to cook slowly. 
After the flour is of the same color as the onions, add a glassful 
of claret (or a tablespoonful of orange juice), half as much 
broth, a few mushrooms, some salt, pepper, and a bouquet of 
one bay leaf and a sprig of thyme. Allow the whole to stew 
for a little while, then pour it over slices of cooked beef, and 
place for half an hour where the meat will be kept hot, and be 
saturated with the sauce without boiling. 

In the foregoing you have means to prove the truth of 
what the famous Dr. von Nussbaum of Munich, Germany 
wrote : " All our thinking and doing is far greater in value 
when we are well nourished, than it is when we are poorly fed 
and not our real selves in consequence." 



LETTER VII 

Is not veal a calf? 
Good pasture makes fat sheep. 



SHAKESPEARE. 



YOU wish to know how much meat for roasts to provide for 
your usual meals as well as for company. Before giving 
you my opinion, I must remind you that there is waste mate- 
rial in what you x buy, which tells in weight but Waste material 
does not count as food. Water is waste material, in food matters - 
and so are bones. Then, also, meat when cooked weighs less 
than when you bought it ; the loss in weight is different in boil- 
ing and roasting. When boiled, beef loses 15, Lossofweight 
mutton and turkey 16, chicken is-J. and ham 6 in boiling 

, , . - . , and roasting. 

per cent; when roasted, beef loses 19^, mutton 
24^-, turkey 2o|-, lamb 22^-, duck 27-^, and chicken 14 per cent 
in weight. Considering all this, and that the larger your roast 
the juicier and better it is apt to be, I would advise, for a 
household of three, never to provide less than four pounds for 
roasting beef, mutton, and veal, and to take one-half pound 
more for each guest who dines with you. Of steaks, chops, 
and cutlets, as a general rule half a pound is sufficient for each 
person. In case of company for dinner, when you will have 
other courses besides, a large chicken or a capon is sufficient 
for six persons, a turkey for a company of ten to twelve, a 
duck but for three to four persons. The latter reminds me of 
a recipe quoted in C. Monselet's " Gastronomic." 

It is equally good for a tame or a wild duck, and is called 
" duck a la Portugaise" Take the heart, gizzard, Recipe for 
and liver, and mince them with three shallots (a duck a /a 

11 /- i . 11 . Portugaise. 

small onion if you cannot get the shallots) ; mix 
with a teaspoonful of salt and half as much black pepper; 

49 



50 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

add a piece of table butter size of an egg and mix the whole 
with a silver fork. Then introduce the mixture into the inside 
of the duck, and sew it up at both ends. Take a large napkin, 
fold it in three thicknesses, roll your duck up in it and fasten 
it tightly all over with twine. Put it into boiling water well 
salted, and cover it up. Let it boil for thirty minutes if a tame 
duck, but thirty-five minutes if a wild one. Remove both twine 
and napkin and serve on a hot dish with pieces of lemon for 
a garnish. 

I mention this only by the way ; and since variety is the spice 
of life, you will not object. Later on I intend saying more of 
poultry, but first I mean to talk to you about the kinds of meat 
on which we depend chiefly for ordinary use. 

Veal is much less nourishing than well-fed beef. It has less 
muscle, about one-third less iron, and is poorer in alkalies. If, 
General remarks however, the animal is not too young, and has 
about veal. been well cared for, it furnishes the table with a 

variety of food which in the hands of a clever cook may be 
turned into a great many pleasant surprises. La Reyniere, who 
wrote the famous " Almanac des Gourmands," calls the calf 
"the chameleon of the kitchen," on account of the number 
of different dishes into which it can be turned. The ten- 
derest parts of the calf are the loin, with the kidneys attached, 
and the breast. The latter is cheaper than either the loin or 
leg, and therefore an economical piece of meat. It may be 
stuffed and roasted ; or stewed, and served with a white 
sauce ; or made into a delicious " roulade " for slicing when 
cold. In case you have a loin of veal, and you wish to make 
the most of it, you can use the kidneys for a savory breakfast 

dish in the following way : When the roast is 
of re vea! a kid d nejs. aljout half-done, remove the kidneys embedded in 

their fat. Mince them with one shallot (or a bit 
of onion) and a sprig of parsley; melt a teaspoonful of but- 
ter in a skillet, add the mince when the butter is hot ; cover 
it and allow it to stew for about fifteen minutes over a very 
moderate fire, shaking the skillet with its contents from time 
to time to prevent the latter from burning. Add a pinch or 



LETTER VII 51 

two of salt to the mince, and after you take it off the fire a 
little white pepper and a few drops of lemon juice. Set aside 
until next morning, when add one egg, and mix it in well. 
Now cut some slices of bread, brown them slightly in a little 
butter, then spread over one side of them the prepared kid- 
neys, about half an inch thick ; dust over them some grated 
Parmesan cheese, and over it some fine bread-crumbs. Sprinkle 
over the whole some melted butter, place the slices on a tin 
dish, and put them in a quick oven to get a light brown on top. 
Serve hot. 

A roast is not always desirable for a small family. Veal cutlets 
have the same nourishing properties, if prepared in the right 
way. The cutlets from the loin are the best, but 

, _ , , , , Veal cutlets. 

those cut from the leg may be made just as savory, 
and are the cheapest. Have the butcher cut you one pound 
off the leg in slices one-third of an inch (half a finger's width) 
thick. Divide this meat into pieces as large as the 

- , , . . Veal cutlets 

palm of your hand. Remove skin and bone, a ia parmen- 
pound the cutlets with the flat side of a kitchen mre ' 
knife, and turn them in some flour. Then heat a teaspoonful 
of butter in a saucepan and throw in a teaspoonful of minced 
onion. When the latter begins to turn yellow put in your cut- 
lets, one beside the other, and add a few small slices of thinly 
cut ham. Let all get brown first on one side and then on the 
other. Sprinkle a very little salt over the veal, add some pep- 
per, and a few squeezes of lemon juice. When the ham is 
tender take it out and cut the lean in as many small diamond- 
shaped pieces as you have cutlets, and keep hot. Add a little 
water to the cutlets, cover them up and allow to simmer 
on a slow fire until quite tender, adding more liquid if 
necessary. Serve them on a bed of mashed potatoes, place a 
piece of ham on every cutlet and pour the gravy around the 
potatoes. 

When in Carlsbad, Austria, I learned from the bill of fare 
that this dish was called veal cutlet d la parmentiere. After 
giving you this particular recipe in which you have the base 
for cooking veal cutlet, I leave it to you to vary according to 



52 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

your own good judgment. You might have peas instead of 
potatoes ; or you might leave out the ham and 

Vienna Schnitzel. r 

garnish the cutlets with capers and slices of lemon, 
serving the vegetable separately. The latter way is called 
Vienna Schnitzel. 

If parts of cooked or roasted veal are left over, you may use 
it to advantage for a baked hash, called miroton: Chop fine 

the veal and, if on hand, some fat ham or bacon. 

Miroton of veal. . 

Mince a slice of onion and a few sprigs of pars- 
ley. Take bread-crumbs, about a third of the amount of 
chopped meat ; soak them in milk, and squeeze dry by means 
of a clean towel. Add some salt and white pepper, and one egg 
beaten light beforehand. Mix well all these ingredients, then 
warm but do not cook them in a saucepan. Now taste 
the hash, and see that it is right in salt and spice. Put it into 
a deep dish, well buttered, and bake it in a quick oven. It 
ought to turn out whole. A tomato or a caper sauce served 
with it will greatly improve this dish. 

A great delicacy are the sweetbreads. They are both nour- 
ishing and easily digested, therefore invaluable for the sick. 
But, unfortunately, they are so high-priced in our 
large cities (even in the country butchers no 
longer throw them away, as they used to do) that 
they belong to the luxuries. A calf's head also is not cheap ; 
it, however, furnishes us with enough material to permit even 
an economical housewife to purchase it now and then. Beside 
the meat and skin there are the brains and the tongue for use. 
Since all gelatinous matter and the calf s head has a great 
deal of it is not easily digested, the addition of a slight acid 
is necessary either in the preparation of such matter or in 
what is served with it. To increase the nutritive properties of 
calf s head, eggs are a first-rate complement. 
Recipes for ^ have two recipes which I would recommend 

call's head. \)oth f or their simplicity and wholesomeness. 

After the head has been properly scraped and cleaned 
(which the butcher generally does), have it split in halves, 
giving particular orders not to split the tongue as well. Soak 



LETTER VII 53 

the whole in cold water for about two hours, then remove the 
brain and set it aside. Put the halves, with the tongue, on the 
fire, with cold water to cover it ; add salt in moderate quantity ; 
add one or two pounds of beef bones, if you wish to make 
your dish particularly nourishing. After the scum is removed 
add two carrots, one turnip-rooted celery, one onion, a bunch 
of parsley, eight white pepper seeds, and half a cup of vinegar. 
Allow to boil slowly until soft, which will be in about two hours. 
Now take the fleshy parts off the bone, also the ears, and peel 
the tongue (unless you wish to save it for a special dish later 
on, when it will keep fresher in its skin). Cut all this into 
nicely shaped pieces and set to keep warm as much of it as 
you wish to use for your dish presently. The rest you cover up 
with some of the strained liquor and set away. In cold weather 
it will keep for weeks. It can be used in various fashions, for 
soups, ragouts, etc. ; or it may be baked. 

Although the brains may be used for a soup or fried in a 
batter, etc., I propose that you should use them for a dish of 
"baked calf s head." Take as much as about half of the above 
cooked head. Cut the pieces rather small. After the brains 
have been well soaked in salted water, scald them in boiling 
water, and remove all skins and veins ; then mash them through 
a sieve, mix them with a cupful of cream, half a teaspoonful of 
flour, two eggs well beaten, a saltspoonful of salt and a sprinkle of 
nutmeg. Butter a dish in which to serve it, put in it the pieces 
of calf's head and pour over them the above mixture. Bake in 
the oven until brown, and serve the following anchovy sauce 
with it : Take a teaspoonful of butter ; when hot mix it with a 
scant teaspoonful of flour ; add gradually and stirring all the 
while about half a pint of the liquid in which the calf's head 
has been boiled, or any other broth (water even will do). 
When well mixed add four sardines out of brine, which have to 
be well washed and bones removed beforehand. Or, if more 
convenient, add instead half a teaspoonful of anchovy paste. 
Add also one small onion, the peel of a quarter-lemon, and allow 
the whole to boil from half an hour to one hour. Put through 
a wire sieve, then add some lemon juice and a tablespoonful of 



54 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

capers ; set it again on the fire, and as soon as it comes to the 
boiling-point stir in the yolks of two eggs beaten up either in a 
little cooking wine or cream. Serve in a boat. 

The other recipe is called calf's head en tortue. Use for 
it, we will say, the other half of the calf's head you have in 
readiness. If you wish to use the tongue as well, peel it and 
slice it evenly. Set it to get warm in some of its own liquid. 
After that prepare a sauce in this way : Melt a piece of butter the 
size of an egg, mix with it one teaspoonful of flour ; then stir 
into it half a pint or more of the liquid in which the head has 
been boiled, and which, of course, has been strained. Let it 
bubble up and stir over a moderate fire until quite smooth. 
Then add half a teaspoonful of Liebig dissolved in a little boil- 
ing water, and the prepared pieces of the calf s head. Have 
the whites of three hard-boiled eggs chopped fine ; add them 
and a tablespoonful of capers. Put the whole on a moderate 
fire and, stirring repeatedly, allow it to simmer for five minutes 
longer. At the very last add the juice of half a lemon and a 
saltspoonful of white pepper. Stir to get it well mixed in and 
remove from the fire. Serve in a hot dish, placing the nicest 
pieces in the middle, with skin uppermost, the tongue, if used, 
in a circle next to them ; pour over it some of the sauce ; and 
serve the rest in a boat. Garnish with slices of lemon and 
parsley, or water-cress. 

To be economical you will save the tongue for a breakfast 
dish. It will suffice for two, if the calf was a large one. It is 
Breakfast ^^ mce P re P are d thus \ After the tongue is boiled, 

dish of calf s and the skin peeled off, cut it in two lengthwise, 
turn the halves in sweet oil or melted butter, then 
in some fine bread-crumbs which have been mixed with a little 
salt and some minced parsley. Broil them over a bright fire 
until they are light brown. 

To make a roulade of veal, take the breast. Have your 
butcher take out the bones. Then separate the upper from 
A rouiade tne lower part in such a way that both hang 

of veai. together and form one thin square piece when 

opened out. Lay it, inside uppermost, on a meat-board, and 



LETTER VII 55 

dust it over with salt and pepper. Now make a forcemeat in 
the following way : Take half a pound of veal freed from fat 
and skin and mince very fine. Take also some suet, and mince 
it as fine as possible. Mix the two, and add half a teaspoonful 
of minced shallot (or onion) which previously has been steeped 
in hot butter until yellow ; also two eggs well beaten, a sprinkle 
of grated nutmeg, and a saltspoonful of salt. Mix the whole 
thoroughly and spread part of it over your veal to the thickness 
of half a finger's width. Cover this layer of forcemeat with 
oblong strips (about half an inch thick) of fat bacon, boiled 
ham or tongue, and red beets, some parsley leaves, small 
gherkins, and slices of hard-boiled eggs. Arrange all this 
tastefully as to colors and distances. Then spread over the 
whole another layer of forcemeat, which press down to secure 
the pieces underneath. Have a flat surface. Now roll up the 
meat so as to have the filling all inside. Roll it tight, sew it 
together with needle and thread, and string it around with 
twine. Take broth enough from the soup-pot to cover the 
rolled meat. Place a tight-fitting lid on the stew-pan in which 
you cook the meat, and boil it over a gentle fire for about 
three hours. When tender take it out of the liquor, put it 
between two boards, and place a heavy weight (a flat-iron, for 
instance) on top. Let it remain over night, and the next day 
it will be fit for slicing. As long as you cannot afford boned 
turkey, this is a good substitute when you have 
company for tea or luncheon. If the slices are 
arranged in a ring, and the centre filled either with 
a mayonnaise salad or a slightly acid meat-jelly 1 
broken up in small pieces, it makes a very palatable and at 
the same time ornamental dish. 

Mutton is easier to digest than veal, if the meat is of a young 
and well-fed animal. In boiling or roasting mut- General re _ 
ton or lamb, a bouquet of thyme and sweet marks about 
marjoram should be added, which improves the 
flavor of the meat. A leg of mutton can bear even a button 
of garlic. 

1 See p. 79. 



56 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

To boil a leg of mutton, crush to a coarse powder a twig of 
thyme, a bay leaf, and six black pepper seeds ; chop coarsely an 
Reci e for onion and a clove of garlic ; mix the whole and 

boiling a leg add a teaspoonful of salt. Rub this mixture into 
the outside of the mutton, lap the latter tightly 
around with a napkin, and sew it up with thread and needle. 
Place it in a pot with a tight-fitting lid, and no more than 
cover it with boiling water. Add to the latter a teaspoonful of 
salt and the same vegetables as for soup-liquor, with the addi- 
tion of some thyme and sweet marjoram. Do not let it boil 
violently. A leg of about seven pounds ought to be done in 
one hour and three-quarters to two hours. Take the napkin 
off just before serving. A puree of white turnips or a white 
caper sauce is a fit accompaniment. 

The loin makes a savory roast. Add an onion cut in two and 

a bouquet of sweet marjoram and thyme after the roast has 

taken color. But the best roast of mutton is the 

Loin of mutton. - ., ._, ... . . . , . 

saddle. This is the two loins without being sep- 
arated. Have the butcher trim off the flaps, the tail, and the 
shoulder-blades. It requires a brisk oven and ten to fifteen 
TO roast minutes roasting for each pound. Add the bou- 

a saddle of quet required for mutton and an onion. Peel off 

the skin which covers the top of the saddle when 
nearly done (about twenty minutes before) ; sprinkle the fat 
which remains with salt, then with melted butter, and cover it 
all over with finely sifted bread-crumbs. Now continue the 
roasting, top part uppermost, until done, when the meat ought 
to be covered with a crisp brown crust. Garnish this delicious 
roast with small potatoes browned in butter, and small glazed 
onions, 1 all of one size. Have it accompanied by green peas. 
Apply the same process to a quarter of spring 

lamb, than which there is nothing more delicious. 

The cheapest pieces of mutton are the shoulder and the 

breast. As to the former, let the butcher take out the bones, 

which, of course, you use for soup. Put bits of bacon here 

1 See p. 125. 



LETTER VII 57 

and there over the inside of the meat, and sprinkle over it some 
salt, black pepper, minced parsley, and a little crushed thyme. 
Roll the meat up tightly and fasten it with 

. i-ii Recipe for 

twine. Put it into a stew-pan, in which has been a shoulder of 
heated a tablespoonful of butter. Brown it 
rapidly on all sides. Then add boiling water enough to cover 
it about half. Salt but slightly, and put around the meat a few 
onions, some carrots and turnips, a bay leaf, one or two cloves, 
a bunch of parsley, and thyme. As soon as the whole comes to 
a boil, remove from the top of the stove to the oven, and allow 
it to stew there slowly until done. Place the meat on a hot 
dish and arrange the vegetables around it. Add a scant table- 
spoonful of flour to the liquor remaining in the pan. Let it 
boil for five minutes, while stirring ; taste if it needs salt, and 
pour this gravy over the meat. 

A breast of mutton you may treat in the same way, or you 
may boil it with soup vegetables and salt until tender ; then 
drain it, turn it first in melted butter, and after- _ 

/ . Recipe for 

wards in a mixture of bread-crumbs, minced * breast of 
shallots and parsley, salt and pepper, over which 
you sprinkle some more melted butter. Place the whole be- 
tween a double gridiron and broil it until light brown over a 
quick fire. 

Mutton chops are always best when broiled. Apply the same 
principle to them as I demonstrated in regard to beefsteak. 
If you wish them extra fine, do as follows : Broiled 
Mince a small onion, and as much as a tea- muttonch P s - 
spoonful of parsley for about four chops. Mix both with a 
scant tablespoonful of olive oil, and rub your chops with this 
mixture. Place one upon another, and leave standing for five 
minutes. Broil them over a bright fire, sprinkling with salt and 
pepper when done. Or in this way : Turn your chops first in 
melted butter, and then in part bread-crumbs and part grated 
Parmesan cheese, the two mixed together. Then broil. 

The kidneys also furnish you with a good breakfast or lunch- 
eon dish. Divide them into halves, but so as to let them 
hang together. Dust over them salt and pepper, and turn them 



58 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

well in bread-crumbs. Then broil them over a quick fire 
until light brown. Be careful not to expose them to the heat 
Breakfast to ^ on & : ^ey niust be soft and juicy. Have ready 

dish of mut- a mixture of fresh butter and minced parsley (to 

ton kidneys. ... . . . . 

which you may add tarragon and cives, all minced 
very fine) ; form the mixture into little balls as large as a 
pill ; put one inside of each kidney ; squeeze a few drops of 
lemon juice on each, and double up the halves. Serve while 
hot. 

I give you in all these recipes only an outline of what can 
be done with meat. You understand that it is for you to en- 
large on them, and apply the rudimentary rules to all other 
dishes on which you wish to try your skill. It is the " spirit of 
cookery," which I principally want to instil into you. 



LETTER VIII 

I am one that am nourished by my victuals, and would fain have meat. 

SHAKESPEARE. 

I HAVE come now to the most despised of animals the pig, 
which in spite of all the ignominy heaped on it, lavishes on 
MS an abundance of acceptable gifts in the shape 
of pork, ham, sausages, etc. Grimod de la Rey- ^ 
niere, in fact, calls the pig " V animal encydope- 
digue par excellence" and in an old German 
cook-book of the XVI. century we read, " If a sow were feath- 
ered and would fly over a fence, she would be superior to all 
poultry and birds of the air." But pork of all meats is hardest 
to digest. This is chiefly owing to its toughness of fibre, which 
resists mastication, and thus causes larger particles of food 
to be conveyed to the stomach than is otherwise the case. 
There is, however, a great difference in pork according to what 
the animal has been fed on. The sweeter its food was the 
better the meat will be, and the healthier at the same time. 
Pigs fed on chestnuts are considered the best. The ancient 
Greeks ate pigs' livers only if the animals had been fed on 
figs, and wine made of honey. And the " Edda " tells us that 
the heroes in Walhalla are treated by Odin with meat of wild 
boar, who is the progenitor of the pig. All this goes to show 
how much pork, and all derived from it, has been esteemed in 
all times and ages. 

Nevertheless you would hardly treat your dinner guests with 
a dish of pork, but rather keep it for the family meal. A rib 
roast, if tender is, indeed, succulent and deli- 

Roasted pork. 

cious of flavor. Always roast it with an onion cut 

into halves, and a clove stuck in each half. Sprinkle plenty of 

salt over the upper crust of fat, and let it get well done, with- 

59 



60 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

out drying up the juices. Some people like a layer of brown 
bread-crumbs put over the top of the roast after it is done. 
Sprinkle over it a little fine sugar, a pinch of ground cloves, 
and lastly some melted butter. Put it once more in the oven 
to take color. A Cumberland sauce goes well with this roast. 
Recipe for Cum- To make it, pour the fat from the pan in which 

berland sauce. the pork hag been roaste( i j an d %&& to t h e brOWtt 

sediment in the bottom of it half a cup of broth, a wineglass- 
ful of claret, a tablespoonful of French mustard, and as much 
of currant jelly. Let the whole boil up, and strain through a 
fine sieve. If any fat remains skim it off the top. 

A filet or tenderloin of pork is an inexpensive piece of meat 
inasmuch as there is no waste. Take either the pair of them 
HOW to roast smce tnev are excellent for slicing and eating 
tenderloin cold or only one if it is large, which will be 

of pork. . 

sufficient for your dinner of three. It must be 
well skinned and not entirely bare of fat. Boil a cupful of 
vinegar with one small onion sliced, one slice of lemon, one 
bay leaf, one sage leaf, one sprig of thyme, six black pepper 
seeds, one clove, for five minutes. Pour it boiling hot all 
over your pork, turning it in this liquid a few times. Have a 
piece of butter the size of a walnut heated beforehand in a 
small dripping-pan, and when hot put in the filet, browning it 
quickly on all sides. Then continue to roast slowly for about 
one hour, adding a spoonful of the strained vinegar from time 
to time, to keep the bottom of the pan moist. Sprinkle with 
salt and baste frequently. A quarter of an hour before it is 
done, pour over your meat a gill of thick cream. Baste it a 
few times. This helps to make the sauce ; remove all but a 
little of the fat on it, and serve either poured over the filet or 
in a boat. 

A very economical roast is the spring or the foreloin of pork. 
Let the butcher remove the bones, and prepare the following 
Reci e for stuffing i Cut two French rolls into thin slices, 

stuffed fore- pour over them a cupful of boiling milk ; let soak 
a while and get cool. Then add three eggs, half 
a teaspoonful of salt, a teaspoonful of minced onion, as much 



LETTER VIII 61 

of minced parsley, a slight sprinkle of grated nutmeg, and beat 
the whole until light and smooth. Fill this stuffing in the in- 
side of the meat, where the bones have been taken out, and 
secure it by sewing the edges of the meat together. Roast it 
in the usual way. 

If you wish to cook pork chops, I would recommend to 
have them well pounded on both sides, then turned in bread- 
crumbs, in an egz beaten up and salted, and 

, , , , , . . Pork chops. 

once more in bread-crumbs, saute 1 them in a 
little hot butter, shaking them frequently to prevent their scorch- 
ing. They take from twenty minutes to half an hour to get 
done, and must be of a light brown on both sides. 

A favorite with all of us is the ham, and for good reasons. 
Although in the process of curing some of its nutritive juices are 
lost, it is made fitter for digestion by means of the 

, -. . About ham. 

salt entering and sottenmg the tough fibres and tis- 
sues. If not too large, a ham, even for a small family, is no piece 
of extravagance. In cool weather it will keep for a week after 
being cooked, and will help out in many ways. You know how 
nice it is when cold and sliced. Served with a green salad it 
makes a nice dish for lunch or supper. It may also be served 
with a cold sauce made in this way : Take about an ounce 
of lump sugar, rub into it the outside of half an A sauce for 
orange and squeeze over it two tablespoonfuls of cold ham - 
its juice. When the sugar is melted, add to it a heaped tea- 
spoonful of French mustard, two tablespoonfuls of salad oil, 
and as much good vinegar. Mix thoroughly. Or serve with 
your cold ham the following horseradish sauce : Take two 
tablespoonfuls of sweet cream ; one tablespoonful of best vine- 
gar, half a teaspoonful of sugar, and as much of Recipefor 
salt. Beat it up, and add as much grated horse- horseradish 
radish as it will take to make a thick sauce. You 
may also combine these two sauces, by leaving out the cream 
and mustard. They both go equally well with cold corned beef, 
with boiled fish, and poultry. 

i See p. 76. 



62 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

In case you wish to serve your boiled ham heated over, I 
propose the following way : Cut it into even slices, soak 
Boiled ham them in cold milk for about half an hour, then 

heated over. w jp e fa em ^ r y t Make a brown roux? add to it 
some broth (or water if you have none), a little lemon peel, a 
blade of mace, and six black pepper seeds. Let all this boil 
slowly for half an hour, when strain and add a wineglassful of 
port wine or sherry. Put the sliced ham into this sauce, place 
it over boiling water, cover it up, and let it get hot. Serve it 
in a rice-ring 2 dusted over with grated Parmesan cheese, if you 
choose to do so. 

You may also mince some of the lean part of your boiled 

ham, and serve it dusted over a dish of boiled macaroni ; or, 

in layers between boiled rice, and baked au gratin 

Other ways , J ' 

of using up i.e. browned on top and served in the dish 

baked in. There are, in fact, so many different 
kinds of nice dishes to be made of ham that in mentioning 
some of them I forgot that I have not told you as yet how 
to boil a ham which is quite important to know. Buy only 
the best of ham, and then do not soak it in water over 
HOW to boil night, as a good many cook-books tell you, but 
a ham. have j t was h e d and scrubbed with a brush 

in lukewarm water. Put it on the fire in cold water, which 
must cover it entirely. Have a tight-fitting lid for the pot in 
which you cook it. Let it come to a boil very slowly, then 
change the water for fresh which is boiling when poured over. 
Place the pot now where the water will not boil, but merely 
simmer. The ham is done when the skin, being lifted at the 
end, will pull off easily. It will take from four to five hours to 
cook a small ham. 

To roast a ham, cook it as above, and after the skin has been 
HOW to peeled off, put it in a dripping-pan with a bottle- 

roast a ham. ^ o f p r i me c id e r, and place it in a moderately 
hot oven for another hour. Baste it occasionally with the 
liquor in the bottom of the pan. 

l See p. 70. 2 See p. 73. 



LETTER VIII 63 

Speaking of ham, I am reminded that of cured food a 
boiled beefs tongue is a very good thing to have now and 
then, although it is less economical and not nearly How to 
as wholesome as ham. Beef tongue is extremely bo ' ! a ton ue - 
fat, and there is the root of it, which counts in weight and is 
nearly all refuse. In boiling a tongue do as in boiling ham, 
with the one exception that a tongue is better for being soaked 
over night. If any cold tongue is left over, it will serve for a 
breakfast dish, done in the following way, given by Dumas : 

Cut your boiled tongue into very thin slices ; take the dish 
in which it is to be served, put in a few tablespoonfuls of broth 
(or a saltspoonful of Liebig) and a few drops of A break 
vinegar or lemon juice. Have a mince made of fast dish of 

111 tit/ \ cold tongue 

pickled cucumbers, parsley, shallot (or onion), 
chervil, some black pepper, salt, and bread-crumbs. Spread a 
thin layer of this mixture first, then a layer of sliced tongue, 
and so on, finishing with the mince. Dust over the whole 
some bread-crumbs, and put in a quick oven for about ten to 
fifteen minutes, to heat through and get brown on top. Just 
before serving, moisten it with a little more broth (or water). 

I have come now to poultry, and particularly chickens, than 
which there is nothing more delicate and wholesome in the 
way of meat. I am not going here into details Aboutpoultry 
about drawing, singeing, and trussing poultry. You '" general, and 

.,,_,,,...,. . , , how to buy. 

will find that described m every practical cook- 
book. But I will give you a few hints, which may be valuable, as 
to making the most of the poultry you buy and of the great variety 
of dishes furnished by the barn-yard. When marketing, see 
that your chickens have flexible bones, that a duck's bill is not 
too hard to the touch, and that the feet are of a light yellow. 
You are sure, then, that both chickens and ducks are young. 
A young turkey has a more delicate skin than an old one ; nor 
are the flaps about its head of so dark a red. The barn- 
yard pigeons, if young, have very small heads, thick bills, a light 
skin, and a delicate yellowish down about head and breast and 
underneath their wings. An old fowl or old pigeons furnish an 
excellent broth for soup. Remember this in case of sickness. 



64 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

If you have a chicken which is not very fat, you may tie 
some thin slices of fat bacon or salted pork over its breast, and 
lay another couple of slices underneath while roasting. In re- 
spect to pigeons, squabs, and game in general, this process is 
invariably the best, since all birds lack in fat. They are best 
enveloped all around in slices of bacon, which Konig, in his 
famous " Geist der Kochkunst," calls their habit. 

If you have a very young chicken, it is best to split it down 

the back and broil it. It is also good dredged with flour and 

browned in an iron pan in some hot butter, first on 

About cook- 
ing young the outer side, then on the inner, sprinkling with 

salt after the former is turned uppermost. When 
done and removed to a hot platter, pour a little cream into the 
frying-pan to boil up and mix with the brown deposit in it ; 
salt it slightly, add a few drops of lemon juice, and pour over 
the chicken. Serve it trimmed with bunches of parsley, either 
fresh or fried crisp in some boiling lard. I have had the 
breasts of a large chicken served in this way for two persons, 
while I kept the rest of the chicken for stewing on another 
day. 

The flavor of a young roasted chicken is greatly improved if 
you place inside it a piece of fresh butter the size of a walnut, 
and with it a bouquet of parsley and a small onion. If you 
like, you may also add the giblets to it, sprinkled with salt. I 
must not omit to tell you that the inside of poultry, after being 
drawn, ought always to be rubbed with some salt. 

Not merely a good, but also a good-looking dish is the fol- 
lowing : Take a well-prepared chicken, put it in a stew- 
A dish of P ot w ^ f ur ounces of washed rice, half a dozen 

stewed chicken mushrooms if you will go to this extravagance 
a sprinkle of salt, a blade of mace, four ounces 
of butter, and enough boiling water to cover the whole. Cover 
with a tight-fitting lid, and allow to boil over a moderate fire 
until chicken and rice are tender. Add more water if needed ; 
or substitute beef broth for water, if you have it on hand, 
which will make the dish more nourishing. The liquid must 
nearly all have been taken up by the rice. Remove the mace, 



LETTER VHI 65 

and serve the chicken with the rice around it. Garnish the dish 
with an outside rim of roses of cauliflower boiled in salt water. 
A fricassee of chicken is stewed chicken of a higher order. 
The following is a good recipe for it : Divide a chicken into 
four parts, put it in a pint and a half of boiling Reci e for 
water, to which add a piece of butter the size of a fricassee 

. of chicken. 

walnut, an onion cut in two, a few sprigs ot pars- 
ley, half a bay leaf, and a teaspoonful of salt. Allow it to stew 
gently until the chicken is done, when remove and strain the 
liquor all but a little, in which you keep the chicken hot. 
Bring the strained liquor again to a boil, when drop into it two 
ounces of butter kneaded into a ball with one tablespoonful of 
flour. Let it boil five minutes when the ball will be dissolved ; 
then beat into it the yolks of one or two eggs which have 
been mixed with a little milk. If too thick, add some of the 
broth left on the chicken. At the very last add the juice of 
half a lemon, a very little white pepper, and another piece of 
butter the size of a walnut. Stir the same vigorously over the 
fire until quite hot again, but do not let it boil. If you wish to 
make it very nice you may add some button mushrooms, or 
a dozen oysters, or some crayfish tails. But should you think 
this too extravagant, you merely add some wheels of oyster- 
plant (salsify) which have been cooked by themselves in salt 
and water. This vegetable harmonizes very well with the sauce 
and chicken. Have rice or macaroni served with it. 

In the south of Germany, and especially at Vienna, a favorite 
way of cooking young chickens is to fry them in lard. They 
are called Backhaendl (baked cocks), in true 

v Backhaendl, 

Viennese dialect, and are delicious. The 
haendl or cocks must not be older than two months, and well 
fed. Cut them into four parts; first, lengthwise, then re- 
moving the spine, divide each half so as to have the breast 
and wing and second joint and drumstick each by itself. 
Take two eggs for two chickens, add to them two tablespoon- 
fuls of water and a saltspoonful of salt, and mix. Dredge the 
chickens first with flour, then turn them in the egg, and after 
that in fine bread-crumbs. The latter must be of bread one 



66 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

day old, when it will not take up fat as much as crumbs 
from staler bread. Lay all the pieces thus prepared on a 
platter, side by side, and put a deep pan on the fire with one 
pound of lard (or half lard and half butter). Heat, it until a 
thin piece of bread, when thrown in, will turn light brown in 
a few seconds. Then put into it one half of the chicken, 
and shake the pan gently until the chicken turns to a rich yel- 
lowish brown, which ought to be in two or three minutes. 
Remove the chicken with a skimmer to some blotting-paper. 
Repeat the same procedure with the other half of the chicken, 
after which throw into the hot lard a handful of 

Fried parsley. . T ...... 

parsley. In one or two minutes it will be as crisp 

as the chicken ; skim it out of the fat on to the paper. Dust 

over it some fine salt, and serve on top of the chicken. Green 

peas are the vegetable best suited to accompany this dish. 

Remnants of poultry may be done up to advantage in various 

styles, either cut into small pieces and heated 

Various uses of . 

remnants of m 3. white sauce, or as croquettes, or a ragout, 

poultry. i j i j 

or a salad with mayonnaise dressing, etc. 

A turkey you will provide but for special occasions. I think 

it worth while to give you for a trial the following, which is the 

very recipe for cooking a turkey as fancied by and served to 

the late German Emperor Wilhelm I. : Take a 

Stewed turkey. . , ........... . 

deep oval pan with tight-fitting lid, large enough 
for the turkey to fit in. Heat half a pound of butter in it, and 
when hot put in the turkey. Add half a pound of ham cut in 
pieces, a plateful of sliced onion, and one pint of boiling water. 
Allow to stew slowly from two to three hours. Put the gravy 
through a sieve, and pour it over the turkey. Serve macaroni 
with it. 

The turkey drumsticks, if left over, you may serve up the 
second time " devilled." Make a cut down the side, take out 
Devilled the bones and cartilage carefully, dip in melted 

butter ; dust the inside over with salt and pepper, 
sprinkle it with lemon juice, and spread some mustard over 
the whole. Broil over a quick fire for a few minutes, and serve 
hot. 



LETTER VIII 67 

I have given you already a recipe for a duck. If you prefer 
to roast it, it is best to stuff it with a chestnut filling. Pigeons 
you may stuff and roast ; or you may fricassee them, 

J , 3 .* ' About a duck. 

adding some forcemeat balls to the sauce. When 
you serve them with boiled rice, proceed in the following way : 
Cut your pigeons into quarters, and saute them to a light 
brown in some butter. Then add a slice of onion 

...... , About pigeons. 

minced, the juice of one or two tomatoes strained 
through a sieve, salt, a little white pepper, a bouquet of parsley, 
and a little broth (or water). Stew them, cov- pj ge ons 
ered up, until tender. Serve them on top of some Wlth rice> 
boiled rice, and pour the gravy over the whole. 

I add a few recipes for the stuffing of poultry. The follow- 
ing you may use both for chicken and turkey : Take two 
French rolls, soak, and squeeze dry ; beat until About various 
light with two whole eggs and the yolk of one egg. stuffing 

TV?- u T JJ 4. 1,1 c i r J for poultry. 

Mince the liver ; add a tablespoonful of minced 
onion and as much parsley, a teaspoonful of salt, a little 
ground mace, and two ounces of butter, which melt. Mix 
the whole thoroughly, and heat, but do not let it come to the 
point of boiling. To this stuffing you may add also as much 
as one pound of sausage-meat, which makes it rich, and im- 
parts a flavor in harmony with poultry. 

A chestnut stuffing for either turkey or duck is made thus : 
Take a dozen large chestnuts, boil, peel and mash them. 
Cook the liver of your turkey or duck ; mince it very fine ; 
add a tablespoonful of minced ham, a teaspoonful of minced 
shallots (or onion), as much both of minced lemon peel and 
salt, a very little white pepper, two ounces of melted butter, 
two tablespoonfuls of grated bread, and the yolks of two eggs. 
Mix the whole thoroughly. 

A stuffing of oysters, to which you add bread-crumbs, melted 
butter, and a little ground mace and minced parsley, is perhaps 
the most delicious of all stuffings for either chicken or turkey, 
with the exception of truffles an ingredient by far too ex- 
pensive for any sensible mortal to think of in a country like 
ours, devoid of this precious fungus. 



68 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

I will close with a stuffing for pigeons, and then release you 
for to-day. For three pigeons take one ounce and a half of 
bread, soak it in milk, and press it dry ; pour over it two ounces 
of melted butter ; add to it the minced livers of the pigeons, a 
slice of onion, and a few sprigs of parsley minced, a scant tea- 
spoonful of salt, a sprinkle of grated nutmeg, and three eggs. 
Mix well and fill it into the breasts of the pigeons from the 
neck, by means of a teaspoon. 



LETTER IX 

Thy spirit be thy guide. 

FRIEDRICH VON SALLET. 

THERE is one branch of cookery which I might call the flower 
of the culinary art. This is the making of ragouts and their 
attendant sauces. An ordinary cook has not the 
faintest idea how to produce them; it requires 
both taste and study to achieve success in this 
line. I want you to devote your best mind to the 
production of ragouts and sauces, since they may be adapted 
at the same time to the requirements of a luxurious dinner and 
of a modest one, as I am going to show you. Suppose you 
have a remnant of chicken left, too insignificant to put on 
the table either cold or warmed up. Take it, every scrap of 
it, except the skin, and cut it in tiny pieces squares if possi- 
ble. If the liver has been saved, so much the better ; cut it 
in tiny squares likewise, and set both aside. Now make a thick 
white sauce (of which later), which you flavor with some an- 
chovy paste as large as a pea, and a sprinkle of lemon juice. 
With this sauce you mix your meat. Then pour a teaspoonful 
of olive oil in a saucer, brush it over the inside of some scallop- 
shells (one for each person), fill the latter with your ragout, 
which must be quite hot, sprinkle some dry bread-crumbs 
over it, and then some grated cheese. Put a few flakes of table 
butter on top of each ; place the shells in a sheet-iron pan, and 
brown them in a quick oven, which will take about five minutes. 
They must be watched, lest the ragout dry up. Serve the 
shells immediately over a folded napkin on a china dish. 

They make a nice appetizer when eaten between the soup 
and meat course ; and they furnish the best and nicest way of 
using up meat as well as fish. 

69 



70 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

Now you can take the same recipe and, for a special occasion, 
turn it into a 

Salpicon Royal. Cut into small dice the breast of a chicken, 
some sweetbreads and mushrooms, all cooked beforehand ; 
add a bechamel sauce, in which some crayfish butter has 
been melted ; pour this mixture either into shells of pastry or 
small paper cases, and serve hot. Or, more luxurious still, 
prepare a 

Salpicon a la Conde. Take equal parts of prepared sweet- 
breads, the reddest of beef tongue, the blackest of truffles ; cut 
them into small dice, and moisten well with a thick white sauce 
flavored with lemon juice and mushroom. 

The term "salpicon" is generally applied to a ragout fin, 
the ingredients of which are cut into fine squares. A ragout 
always requires a savory or piquant sauce, and 
mostly is composed of mixed materials, which, 
however, have to be so assorted that they blend 
harmoniously. The greatest care must be be- 
stowed on the sauce which completes the whole. It is either 
a brown or a white sauce, according to the solids used. If 
remnants of cooked beef, mutton, or venison are to be turned 
into a ragout, a brown sauce is required ; for veal, poultry, fish, 
etc., a white sauce is needed. The foundation of a sauce is 
flour and butter mixed, which is called a roux. The propor- 
tions are one spoonful of butter to one spoonful of flour. Melt 
the butter, mix it with the flour, and stir over the fire a few 
minutes only, if the sauce is to be white. Do not allow it to 
HOW sauces ta ^c color. For brown sauce, set this mixture on 
are made. tne back of the stove until it turns to a rich brown. 

Stir it frequently, and do not allow it to become attached to 
the bottom of the pan (one of sheet-iron is best) or to get 
black in any part. Now, to get the consistency of sauce, add 
to the roux the liquid required. Add it lukewarm and little 
by little, stirring all the while in one direction ; thus you avoid 
getting lumps. When properly thinned, stir over the fire until 
it begins to boil ; then set it on the side of the stove and allow 
it to continue boiling gently until the flour is cooked, which 



LETTER IX 71 

will be in about fifteen minutes. To keep the mixture for use 
later in the day, put it in a saucepan with tight-fitting lid, which 
you place in an open pan filled to reach three-quarters up the 
saucepan with boiling water. This you put on a place where 
the latter will keep boiling hot, but not boil. The liquid to be 
added to the roux varies as to the sauce to be made. A 
white sauce requires either a clear, mildly flavored veal or 
chicken broth, or it is made with milk and cream, sometimes 
with the addition of an egg. A brown sauce ought always to 
be more or less piquant ; the broth used may either be of beef 
or from scraps and bones of dark meat, flavored with spice, 
onions, pickles, or other accessories of the kind. 

Professional cooks keep " stock " on hand for the making of 
sauces, but this is far too expensive a way for you and me. 
The contents of the soup-pot are all we need, and, by adding 
afterward to the above white or brown sauces the condiments 
needed to suit the kind of food they are to accompany or form 
a whole with, we can make with ingenuity as good a sauce 
without stock, as the best of professional cooks can with stock. 
A brown sauce, however, can always be improved in looks as 
well as in regard to its nourishing qualities by adding to it at 
the last moment some of Liebig's extract. 

With the plain white and brown sauce you can manage to 
produce pretty nearly any kind of sauce that you will need. 
If you wish to serve some slices left from cooked beef, mutton, 
or tongue, the following is a good recipe for a 

Brown Ragout Sauce. Prepare your sauce in the way 
demonstrated, then add one onion, one bay leaf, one clove, 
four allspice, six black pepper seeds, a bouquet of parsley, 
summer savory or sweet basil, and continue to let it boil gently 
for. half an hour longer, stirring from time to time. Strain 
through a wire sieve, and half an hour before serving add some 
lemon juice or a little vinegar, and either capers, slices of 
pickled cucumbers, or mushrooms or, if preferred, all three 
of them. At the last you add the meat, which must be fully 
covered with sauce. Cover it up tight and place it over boil- 
ing water, where the meat will get heated, and blend with the 



72 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

sauce without coming to a boil. Cooked meat heated over 
must never boil, or it will get tough. 

Of white sauces the bechamel is the most useful. The 
original one, invented by Louis XIV.'s famous chef, M. 
Bechamel, is a very elaborate one, of which there are many 
descendants of high and low degree. The latter, however, are 
by no means to be despised. I have, in fact, a special fond- 
ness for the following one, which I recommend to you for its 
simplicity, tastiness, and wholesome as well as nourishing prop- 
erties. 

Plain Bechamel Sauce. Make a roux as for white sauce, 
substitute milk for broth, add one onion, a flake of mace, 
and a bunch of parsley. Let boil for fifteen minutes, then 
strain. 

This is a very good sauce for poultry, sweetbread, and ham, 
and also for certain vegetables. For a ragout or a salpicon, 
take half milk and half veal (or chicken) broth, and flavor 
with a few mushrooms instead of mace and parsley. 

I can recommend also the following 

Sauce Allemande. Make a white sauce with either chicken 
or veal broth, add to it one onion, half a slice of raw ham cut in 
squares, a few white pepper seeds, the peel of one quarter 
lemon ; allow it to boil for half an hour, when strain and flavor 
with lemon juice. 

To this sauce, as to any other, you may add any accessory 
which serves your purpose, if you merely take care that noth- 
ing incongruous enters into your dish. I use it for a 

Mixed Ragout in a Pastry Shell (vol au vent) . Take two 
calves' tongues ; boil them in your soup-pot. When done, 
peel the skin and trim off the roots. Prepare one or two 
sweetbreads in the following way : Wash them well, put them 
in a saucepan, cover with cold water, let them simmer not 
boil for one hour until they are well blanched. Meanwhile 
put water on to boil in another saucepan, and throw into the 
boiling water the blanched sweetbreads; let them boil for a 
few minutes, removing the scum which rises ; then put them 
into cold water, and after they get cool take them out and 



LETTER IX 73 

trim off the skin and cartilage. Both tongues and sweetbreads 
are now ready for use. Cut them into slices and put them 
into the above sauce, which must be rather thick; keep hot 
over boiling water. Add some mushrooms, either canned or 
fresh. 1 If you wish to make this ragout first-rate, you add at 
the very last some forcemeat balls boiled in broth. Serve the 
whole in a shell of pastry, with a cover of the same, which you 
can order of a baker or confectioner, heating it in an oven for 
five minutes before use. 

You can also dress the ragout inside a rim of croutons. 
Take slices of stale bread, cut off the crust, shape it either in 
square, triangular, or circular pieces, throw them Howto 
into boiling lard until they are of a deep yellow, make a ring 

, / r i i of croutons. 

when remove them to a piece of blotting paper to 
drain off the grease. Have ready a mixture of white of egg 
and flour, by means of which you fasten the lower edges of the 
croutons to the rim of your dish (which must be slightly warm) 
so as to form an inclosure for the ragout to be poured and 
served in. 

You may also serve a ragout in either a rice or a potato 
rim ; this is, however, a somewhat tedious process. I therefore 
prefer for a change to make a rim of boiled rice How 
in a plain way, by boiling the rice until quite thick make a plain 
and soft, then filling it hot into a well-buttered 
ring-shaped mould made of tin. Now, by pressing the rice 
down, it can be turned out on a warm dish, and is ready at 
once to be filled with anything you please. 

I have been writing at length on the subject of these mixed 
dishes, because I consider them a very valuable chapter in 
cookery. Far from being unwholesome if composed of whole- 
some food, they, on the contrary, are apt to tempt even a 
delicate and dainty stomach, and by their nutritious contents 
to benefit a reduced system. Then, what a field for invention 
these dishes are, and with what comparatively small expense 
they furnish the showiest and most palatable entrees for a 
company dinner ! 

1 See p. 96. 



74 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

Since I am writing on sauces, I will add here a few more 
cold sauces for serving with both cold and warm meat. They 
also have the advantage of keeping for days after they are 
made. The simplest is the 

Maitre d'Hotel Sauce or Butter. Take four ounces (four 
tablespoonfuls) of the freshest butter and either one teaspoon- 
ful each of minced parsley and tarragon or, if the latter cannot 
be had, two teaspoonfuls of parsley. Beat the butter with a 
wooden spoon, mixing well with it the minced herbs, and add- 
ing gradually the juice of one lemon. Add a little salt if the 
butter is not much salted already or add a flavor of anchovy 
paste, which gives an agreeable piquancy to the butter. A 
spoonful of this butter heaped on a broiled steak or fish is very 
good. It can also be used as a beautiful garnish for a dish of 
either meat or fish by putting as many small egg-shaped lumps 
of this butter as there are persons, inside of curled lettuce 
leaves ; place them here and there on the edge of the dish. 

An excellent appetizer, when desirable, is the 

Sauce Tartare. Chop very fine two shallots, mince also 
some tarragon and chervil, and mix with one heaped teaspoon- 
ful of French mustard and the yolks of two eggs, to which add 
one teaspoonful of vinegar, one tablespoonful of oil, a little 
white pepper and salt, stirring all the time in one direction. 
If you notice that the sauce begins to curdle, add a little more 
vinegar. Taste to see whether it is sufficiently salted ; if too 
much salted, remedy it by adding a little more mustard and 
oil. 

This is Alexandre Dumas' recipe. 

A more pretentious sister to our excellent mint sauce is 
this: 

Herb Sauce (Sauce a la Ravigote). Chop fine equal parts 
of chervil, pimpernel, water-cress, cives, parsley, and tarragon. 
Mix with them the hard-boiled yolks of two eggs, add one 
scant tablespoonful each of French mustard and oil, a teaspoon- 
ful of vinegar, some white pepper and salt, and stir for half 
an hour. 

I do not mention the sauce mayonnaise ; I will do so 



LETTER IX 75 

when I come to speak about salads. For the present you have 
quite enough matter to try your hand on. But let me advise 
you, before I close this letter, to use for your sauces always the 
best of butter ; otherwise all your trouble will be in vain. I 
have for that statement, outside of my own experience, such an 
authority as Gouffe". 



LETTER X 

Dost them know the art 

Of butter and of lard ? 

In finger-tips canst feel 

How much pepper and salt to deal ? 

WHEN I told you about the cooking of meat by means of 
boiling, roasting, stewing, and broiling, I made no mention 
of frying, or sauteing. I kept it in store for a separate demon- 
stration. For to fry as it should be done, is not only a 
difficult process, but in regard to a rational diet, it is un- 
desirable to indulge in fried food more than occasionally. In 
case the distinction between frying and sautemg should not be 
quite clear to your mind, I will explain here that the latter 
means browning in a small quantity of fat, while 
brtw r cen C fry- the former requires immersion into hot fat. Fat, 
teuton which is capable of a temperature three times as 

hot as boiling water, answers well to perform the 
urgent office of cementing at the very start the outside of 
the meat (or some other food-matter), in order to preserve 
the nourishing and juicy substances within. But the nature 
of the fat itself, which of necessity becomes a part of the food 
fried or sauteed, causes the latter to become somewhat more 
hard to digest. I would, therefore, class a friture as a 
relish, in order to distinguish it from necessary food. Of 
the two, frying and saufemg, the former is preferable, inas- 
much as the process, if carried out correctly, causes much less 
fat to attach to the object than will adhere in the slower 
process of saufemg. The latter, in fact, is only admissible if 
the pan is thoroughly heated beforehand, and the fat, after 
being put in it, is made so hot as to surround the food 
instantly with a sort of crust. If this were not done, the fat 
76 



LETTER X 77 

would penetrate through the pores into the inside, destroy 
the juices, and make the food unpalatable, as well as decidedly 
unwholesome. 

It is with the manner of frying, or immersing, that I wish to 
make you particularly acquainted. For some of the greatest 
triumphs of culinary art are to be gained by it. In 
the first place you want a deep casserole of good 
metal, and then the right sort of fat. Leaf lard, and suet ren- 
dered, or half and half of each, are equallygood. Take a large 
enough quantity of it to fully immerse what you wish to fry. 
Let it melt and get hot. To know when the right temperature 
is reached, watch and see when the air above it begins 
to waver. Then take a small piece of bread sliced thin, 
and throw it into the fat. If it sizzles and takes color in 
about five seconds, immerse at once the substance to be fried. 
Brillat-Savarin calls this the " surprise," and your whole success 
depends on its taking place at the right moment. If your fat 
begins to smoke, that moment is past already : you will then 
have to remove your casserole with the fat from the fire, add 
some fresh lard or suet, and watch again for the exact moment. 
After the surprise is effected, you slacken your fire to prevent 
the food from carbonizing. When the friture turns to a 
golden brown, and rises to the surface, it is time to remove it 
with a strainer-ladle to a piece of blotting paper, which you 
place on a warm plate. All superfluous fat will enter into the 
paper and leave the friture dry and crisp. For frying you 
may use almost any kind of cooked meat or vegetable, and 
fish when raw. Cereals, if fried, have to be cooked before- 
hand, but not so farinaceous food made of dough. Some of 
the finest fritures are croquettes, for which remnants of poul- 
try, veal, beef, fish, etc., may be appropriated. The founda- 
tion of croquettes is a thick sauce, for which take H ow to make 
a gill of sweet cream, butter the size of half an egg, croquettes. 
one tablespoonful of flour, a little white pepper, salt, and a 
piece of lemon peel. I do not repeat how a sauce of this sort 
is made ; you know it already. When done, add to it, cut into 
tiny squares, whatever material you wish to use. Set it on ice 



78 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

to get cold. Then take as much as a tablespoonful of it at a 
time, mould it into pear-shaped or cylindrical forms, by rolling 
it lightly on a baking-board with your hand. After your 
croquettes are all formed, roll them in fine bread-crumbs, then 
in a beaten egg slightly salted, and once more in bread-crumbs, 
when they will be ready for immersion. Remember what I 
said about bread-crumbs apropos of fried chickens in my last. 

Croquettes of sweetbread are among the most delicate. 
Calfs brains are best fried in batter, when they are very 
good indeed. Treat them like sweetbreads, 1 and boil them 
with an onion, a few pepper seeds, one bay leaf, and a little 
vinegar in salt and water. Divide them into pieces as large as 
an egg, and make the following batter : Beat over the fire 
until hot one cupful of milk, one whole egg, the 

Recipe of a batter. 

yolk of another egg, half a saltspoonful of salt, 
and one tablespoonful of olive oil. Let it get cool, when add 
sufficient flour to make the batter thick, but not stiff. Stir 
until smooth. The same batter also serves for fried vegetables ; 
as, for instance, roses of cauliflower, pieces of squash, etc. 
Even flowers may be fried in it. The vegetables, as I said, 
have to be boiled beforehand. As to flowers, I found it 
stated in some German cook-book, that " white roses, elder- 
berry-blossoms, and nettles," fried in batter, are very good ; 
but I will not vouch for it. I myself have eaten in Italy, while 
staying in a primitive place among the Apennines, a friture of 
pumpkin-blossoms, and acknowledge that I quite relished it. 

There remains now for me to tell you something about that 
particular substance in the flesh of animals which is called 

glue or gelatine. It is derived principally from 

About gelatine. r , * 

the tissue, the cartilage or gristle, the tendons and 
bones. But the bones, skins, and fins of fish also furnish 
gelatine. It is extracted from meat or fish by prolonged boil- 
ing in water at the highest possible temperature. The latter is 
reached by preventing the steam from escaping from the pot in 
which the gelatinous matter is being boiled, and by the addition 
of salt. 2 

k < iSeep. 72. 2 See p. 41. 



LETTER X 79 

Now, as to the use of glue or gelatine for nutritive purposes, 
the scholars are somewhat at variance. Some authorities hold 
that, although gelatine is rich in nitrogen (two parts 
of gelatine are equivalent to one of albumen), it is aiityof tlve 
hard to digest, and, therefore, as good as useless f^'a^ 
for the organic building up of the system. Others, 
on the contrary, claim that gelatine, if it does not build up, has, 
at least, the valuable property of economizing the albuminoids 
demanded by the animal system, so that a minimum of them 
in connection with gelatine is well calculated for a time to pro- 
vide proper nutrition. These same authorities claim also that 
gelatine, because easily dissolved, is easily assimilated. In order 
not to be lost between these opposing teachings, I think it best 
to be on the safe side, and follow the precept of adding to a 
dish rich in gelatine (like calf s head, etc.) a slight Acid acts 
acid, acting as a dissolvent. If gelatinous sub- as a dissolvent 
stances are used for a jelly, make it just stiff enough 
to stand, which will render it more palatable, and easier to 
digest, than when surcharged with them. 

To make meat-jelly or aspic, you have at your service the 
skin, nose, and ears of a calf's or a pig's head, the feet of both 
calf and pig, the skin of pork or a boiled ham, Substances 
the wing-ends, legs, and feet of poultry, etc. Such yielding mate- , 

11 ui J I- J- i_ rialforjelly. 

a jelly will enable you to produce plain dishes, as 
well 2& plats de gout, highly fanciful and ornamental dishes. It 
is used, also, for garnishing, and, when broken up into irregular 
pieces, is very effective. Meat by itself will like- The uses of 
wise yield up the gelatine contained in its cellular meat -J el| y- 
tissue, if boiled long enough for the process to take place. The 
meat in this case will be quite worthless, but the jelly will be of 
the best and most nutritious, albeit the most expensive. I 
will give you first a recipe for aspic, and later two for jelly. 

For aspic, to make it economical, take a couple of calfs 
feet, and any odd pieces of raw veal and beef, as R ec i P e for 
well as remnants of bones or gristle which you a *P' c - 
may have on hand. Bring it to the fire with three pints of cold 
water and a teaspoonful of salt. Skim well, and let it boil for 



80 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

three hours. Then add to it one small celery root, one small 
onion, half a carrot, a bouquet of parsley, one bay leaf, and six 
black pepper seeds. Allow to boil for about an hour longer, 
or until the meat of the calf s feet is ready to drop off the 
bones. Now strain it through a hair sieve, and let it stand over 
night. The next morning remove all the fat which may have 
collected on top, and test it as to its consistency. If it should 
not have jellied sufficiently, you will have to boil it a while 
longer ; if it is too stiff, add more water, and test it once 
more. To clear the jelly, dissolve it, and when nearly boiling, 
add to it the whites of two eggs, beaten to a slight foam, and 
How te the crushed egg-shells. Stir until it begins to boil, 

clear broth then remove it to the side of the stove, cover it 

up, and let it remain there without boiling for 
about half an hour. It is now ready to receive whatever 
acid and additional spice ( powdered, of course) you might 
wish to add. The juice of a lemon or a sour orange will 
make it pleasantly acid. Tarragon vinegar also gives it a 
pleasant flavor. By adding spice and acid the last moment, 
their characteristic flavor will be preserved, while, if allowed 
to participate in the process of boiling, their fine aroma- 
would evaporate into the air. To give your jelly a good 
color, add also at the last moment two saltspoonfuls of Liebig, 
and see that it dissolves and mixes evenly with the liquid. 
Now cover a colander with a clean napkin, place it on a bowl 
large enough to hold your jelly, filter the latter through the 
napkin, and repeat this process if the jelly is not quite clear 
the first time. 

This jelly will keep for at least a week in winter, if kept in 
a cool place. But, in case it should begin to show specks of 
mould on its surface, it may be purified and saved for use by 
melting and bringing it to a boil. The scum then rising to the 
surface will have to be carefully skimmed off, and the liquid 
poured into a clean vessel for preservation. Broken up (as I 
said before) into small lozenge-shaped pieces, aspic or meat- 
jelly is a delicious accompaniment of cold sliced chicken or 
veal and, in fact, any kind of meat. 



LETTER X 81 

A very nice dish, either for luncheon or supper, is chicken in 
jelly. To make it economical, and yet preserve all the nutri- 
tives pertaining to it, do as follows : Boil the Recipe 
chicken whole with just enough (boiling) water for chicken 
to cover it. Add salt, and the vegetables and 
spice as for aspic. When the chicken is tender, remove it 
from the pot to a meat-board, cut the meat off the bones, and 
divide it into small pieces. Then take the bones, break them 
up with a cleaver, add the head and feet of the chicken, and 
put them back into the chicken broth. Let them boil for an 
hour longer, when you had better test it by taking out a spoon- 
ful, which you put on ice in a saucer. If it jellies when cold, 
you stop the boiling ; if not, you allow it to boil a while longer, 
until you obtain the desired result. Taste it now, to see 
whether salt or spice ought to be added. A slight addition of 
lemon juice is desirable, but not necessary. If your liquor is not 
muddy-looking, you need not clear it. Strain it over the pieces 
of chicken, which you place in a mould. They must be cov- 
ered and no more. After turning it out on a flat dish to be 
served, you may trim it with sprigs of parsley, lettuce leaves, 
#nd slices of lemon. The choicest accompaniment for chicken 
in jelly is a mayonnaise celery or lettuce salad. 

Once your aspic is made, you may appropriate part of it for 
embedding meat of any kind, as, for instance, slices of cold 
roast beef, veal, pork filet, or any remnants which you wish to 
serve the second time in disguise. To make Howto 
these dishes more fanciful, you put your mould on make a/j/at 
ice and fill it half an inch deep with liquid aspic. 
After this is tolerably, but not quite firm, you arrange upon it a 
pattern of either slices of lemon, sprigs of parsley, capers or 
wheels of pickled cucumbers, pieces of cured and boiled 
tongue, slices of hard-boiled eggs, etc., according to choice 
and taste. This pattern shows when the jelly is turned out 
of the mould. Now pour some more of the liquid jelly into the 
mould, and when nearly firm, place a layer of meat well arranged 
on top of it, and so on until the mould is almost, but not quite 
full. Let it stand on ice for two hours before turning it out. 



82 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

The latter way, to be sure, is troublesome, and you will not 
often resort to it, but it goes to show what can be done, after 
all, with comparatively small means, if we want to make some 
extra exertion to please the guests we entertain. 

It is often convenient to have on hand something special for 
slicing down cold. For this purpose I recommend to you the 
Recipe for following recipe for head-cheese : Take a calf's 

head-cheese. head, and boil it in salt and water until quite 
tender ; then take it out, and after it is somewhat cool cut the 
meat into dice. Boil in another pot four calf s feet and one 
pound of pork, in just enough water to cover the whole. Add 
one onion, one bay leaf, the peel of one lemon, a dozen black 
pepper seeds, three cloves, a sprig of tarragon, half a pint of 
vinegar, and a teaspoonful of salt. When done cut the meat 
into dice and mix with those of the head. Now filter the 
liquor in which the calf's feet and pork have been cooked over 
the meat. Stir the whole until well mixed, put it in several 
small forms, and when cold set it away for future use. 

The remaining space of this letter I will devote to the prom- 
ised recipes for meat-jelly. They are both given by Dr. Wiel. 
The following he recommends for enriching gravies and soups, 
and to eat with cold meat. He finishes by designating it as " an 
invaluable refreshment for fever-patients ! " 

Take three ounces of butter ; put in a large cooking-vessel, 
and let it melt, when add to it first one pound of lean ham 
TWO recipes sliced, then four pounds of lean, gristly beef, the 
for meat-jeiiy. same amount of gristly veal, and, if you should 
have it on hand, any bones or extremities of poultry. Add 
also three carrots, one yellow turnip, one celery root, three 
large onions each stuck with two cloves, a large sprig of tarra- 
gon, one teaspoonful of white pepper seeds, and a blade of 
mace. Add but little salt (about a teaspoonful) at first, since 
the ham is salted. If not sufficient, salt can be added, but re- 
member that it cannot be taken away. Allow all this to cook 
for about half an hour, while moving the contents of the vessel 
to and fro from time to time. As soon as a light brown sedi- 
ment is noticeable in the bottom of the vessel, add cold water 



LETTER X 83 

enough to cover up completely the meat and vegetables. Let 
the whole boil now uninterruptedly over a moderate fire for 
five hours. Skim well, and filter through a napkin. An addi- 
tion, at the last, of a scant tablespoonful of Liebig increases 
the piquancy and nutritiousness of the jelly. In cold weather 
it will keep for a long while. 

I have tried this recipe over and over again, and found it 
delicious. But I have never made any more at a time than 
half the quantity, which is all that is required for ordinary pur- 
poses. 

The second recipe is Dr. Wiel's jelly for persons suffering 
with stomach complaint. 

Take four calf s feet, two pounds of beef, and an old fowl. 
Boil them for a whole afternoon in five quarts of water, to 
which add half an ounce of salt. Skim well. An hour before 
it is done add a small pike. Drain, and let get cool over night. 
Next morning take off the fat, melt the jelly, and clear it with 
the whipped whites of six eggs and the crushed egg-shells. 
When as clear as wine, filter it, and add a good half ounce of 
Liebig. Put the jelly in small moulds (or bowls) and set it 
away in a cold place. 

This makes a large quantity. For one person about a fourth 
of all ingredients is more than sufficient. 

In my next I hope to get done with meat, of which you may 
be tired already. 



LETTER XI 

Enough is as good as a feast. 

YOU are right, my friend, man cannot live by meat alone, but 
needs to complement it by juicy vegetables. Still, I want 
you to be patient for another little space, and let me tell you 
first of some more mixed dishes, wherein you have combined 
foods which complement each other, and which, therefore, as 
good as represent a whole dinner in themselves, containing all 
the food-matters necessary to sustain a healthy organism. They 
are invaluable where time and money have to be saved. I 
mean the combination of rice, or macaroni, with meat and 
other substances rich in albuminoids. 

You remember that rice contains 8 per cent only of albumi- 
noids, 76.5 of carbohydrates, and i of fat, to which I add here 
the volume of water, 13 per cent. Rice, in con- 
sequence, is deficient in albuminoids, which have 



to C c'oSk1t h w to be replaced by food rich in them, but poor in 
carbohydrates. The ancients knew this. Ask 
your husband, and he will tell you that in the old Indian epos 
" Ramayana " there is mention made of a cousin to our rice 
pudding, dear to our grandmothers and little children. It is 
called there "krisharah," and was made of rice, milk, sugar, 
and cardamon seeds, boiled thick. We would hardly want to 
make a dinner of it, but what I can highly recommend to you 
for this purpose is the pilaff (or pillaw) of old Persian origin. 
It is to-day one of the best dishes you get in the Orient. 

Before I proceed to explain to you the pilaff, I have to say 

something more about rice itself and the way to cook it. We 

are favored by producing in the United States the best of all 

the different kinds of rice the Carolina rice. Its seeds are 

84 



LETTER XI 85 

of a pure white, long and narrow, and almost transparent. The 
East India rice is only third in quality, the Italian rice being 
superior to it. The most inferior of all is the Brazilian rice. 
I advise you by all means to buy only our excellent domestic 
Carolina rice. It is not only better in taste, but also richer in 
nourishment. Now, rice before being cooked has to be washed 
in cold water at least twice, then drained, put in a china vessel 
and scalded by pouring over it some boiling water, in which it 
is to remain for about fifteen minutes ; then drain again. To 
cook it, throw it into boiling water, one quart for one quarter- 
pound of rice, and two teaspoonfuls of salt for this quantity. 
Allow it to boil rapidly for twenty minutes, then drain the water 
off and remove the rice, uncovered, to the 'back of the stove, 
where it must remain about fifteen minutes to get dry. In 
this way the seeds remain entire, and do not impart to the 
water their mealy substance and sweetness of taste. To see 
whether the rice is sufficiently done, take a seed and press it 
between your fingers ; if it flattens easily, the rice is fit to drain. 
Do not stir it, it would spoil the looks of it ; each seed ought 
to remain separate and intact. Thus prepared, it is ready for 
use in various ways. If you wish to serve the rice cooked 
merely as a vegetable, add to the water in which you boil it a 
piece of butter the size of half an egg for the above quantity. 

For the genuine pilaff you need rice, and either mutton or 
chicken, and you boil the rice in water only five minutes, in 
order to finish it in the juice of the meat. There Jhe genuine 
is a great variety of recipes to choose from ; I piiaff; and a 

r- t i i / 11 recipe for it. 

give you first, because very simple, the following 
"Oriental pilaff": 

Take two pounds of mutton (either breast or loin), cut it 
into squares the size of walnuts ; put it in a stew-pan over a 
slow fire ; cover it up tightly and allow it to stew in its own fat 
until brown, adding from time to time a few drops of water to 
prevent scorching. Add pepper and salt, a little thyme, and 
one onion. Meanwhile parboil half a pound of rice, and, 
after draining it, set away to dry. Remove the mutton when 
quite tender, by means of a skimmer, into another vessel. 



86 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

Keep hot and well covered. Then substitute the rice for the 
meat, and let it stew slowly until done and saturated with the 
juice and fat of the mutton. Serve on a hot dish, the rice first 
and the meat on top of it. 

This same recipe may be followed, by taking chicken instead 
of mutton, with this difference, that the chicken is browned 
first in butter, then stewed by covering it with water, and that 
the thyme is omitted. 

Of all the many variations on the same theme, I give you 
the following one as well worth trying. It is by M. Casimir, 
chef of the Maison d'Or of Paris, and is called "Turkish pilaff" : 

Take a chicken, divide it into pieces, stew it with butter, 
some chopped onions, thyme, and bay leaves. When it is of a 
various other deep yellow, add a quarter-pound of well-washed 
recipes for pilaff. Carolina rice. Put it over a slow fire, and allow 
the rice to swell and absorb the chicken broth. Add some 
salt, pepper, a pinch of cayenne, and nutmeg. Cut a few par- 
boiled tomatoes into dice, and add them also. Moisten the 
pilaff with good veal consomme and allow the whole to stew 
for twenty minutes longer. Add a piece of good butter and a 
tablespoonful of veal suet, then take out the pieces of chicken 
from under the rice, heap the pilaff on a dish, and put the 
chicken on top. 

You will notice that here the rice is called " pilaff " aside 
from the meat. This agrees with my recollection of the pilaff 
we used to have served at Athens, which, being in close prox- 
imity to Turkey, is half Oriental in its customs and habits. 
Our pilaff consisted of rice heaped up, dry and yet moist, and 
having the aroma of the meat broth in which it had been 
steeped. It was besides highly colored a deep orange hue, 
which seemed to be the combined effect of tomato and saffron. 
And this puts me in mind of a recipe for " le pilau" in verse, 
by Mery (I found it in Monselet's "Gastronomic "), which he 
ends by saying : 

"Add last of all, to perfume and color the rice, 
The finest saffron then of a truth you will have 
A pilaff for Mahomet in Paradise I " 



LETTER XI 87 

Based on the same principle and similar to the pilaff is the 
Italian rice dish called risotto. 

After the rice has been properly scalded and dried, put it on 
the fire with a piece of butter until it begins to turn slightly 
yellow. Then add to it, little by little, some Recipe for 
chicken broth flavored with onion. Wait between r ' sotto> 
each addition of broth until the rice has taken up every drop 
of what has been put on already. Continue this until the rice 
is sufficiently done and fully saturated with the meat-liquor. 
Then mix it with bits of poultry, particularly liver, or whatever 
else of suitable accessories you wish to use. Serve it heaped 
up in a dish and dust over it some grated Parmesan cheese ; or 
you may also mix some of the cheese with the rice at the last 
moment. It always looks well to cut the meat in dice for this 
dish. It is excellent also made with pigeon or sweetbread, 
or both sweetbread and chicken. You may also add to the 
chicken, boiled ham and mushrooms cut either in little squares 
or narrow strips, and then call your rice a la Milanaise. The 
most luxurious way would be to add bits of truffles. 

I return, however, to daily common sense, and give you a 
plain recipe, in case you have some ham left over, and wish to 
use it in a new shape. It is called baked rice. 

Take some boiled rice, let it get cool ; mix it with a table- 
spoonful of melted butter, one or two eggs well-beaten before- 
hand, some boiled ham chopped fine, and some Re cipesfor 
grated cheese. Put the whole in a buttered form, baked rice> 
dust over it some more cheese, and bake it in a good oven. 
After about fifteen to twenty minutes, try with the clean straw 
of a broom, which you stick into the middle of your dish, and 
see whether it comes out without anything adhering to it. If 
so, the egg is done ; and when the egg is done, your dish is 
done. 

You may prepare the above in a still simpler fashion thus : 
Take one quarter-pound of rice, which you boil with a piece of 
butter, and a small onion stuck with one clove. When done 
and dry, remove the onion, and mix the rice by means of two 
silver forks with six ounces of boiled ham, either chopped or 



88 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

cut in little squares (or narrow strips) . Mix just before serv- 
ing, set it in the oven for five minutes in order to heat it over, 
and heap it on a hot dish. 

The giblets of poultry, especially the liver, harmonize well 
with boiled rice steeped in butter. They will have to be 
minced, and then mixed with the rice. To vary, you may 
either moisten your rice with tomato sauce, or have the sauce 
served with the rice and giblets separately. 

There are more recipes I might give you, but I will rather 
leave it to your ingenuity to improve on the foregoing, and 
invent your own variations, in order to devote the remaining 
portion of my letter to macaroni, which is as useful in nour- 
ishing, if not quite as digestible, as rice. The best macaroni 
General re- comes from Italy, where it originated and is the 

marks about national dish. The best macaroni, again, in 
Italy is the Neapolitan. I have heard it said 
there is something in the quality of the flour raised in Italy which 
makes the Italian macaroni so superior to that made in other 
countries. Whether this is true or not I do not know, but it is 
a fact that the French and German macaroni does not compare 
with the Italian, and that there is none superior to the Neapoli- 
tan. It is not even higher-priced than its imitations, when 
bought of one of our Italian grocers. Its percentage of car- 
bohydrates is 76.5, the same as rice, while it is slightly richer 
in albuminoids, containing 9 per cent. In fat it is poorer, 
having only 0.5 per cent. Its percentage of water is the same. 
(13.0) as rice. On account of the lack of fat it is even more 
in need of butter and cheese than rice is. The cheese, espe- 
cially, heightens the nutritive quality of macaroni, by adding 
the casein to its floury substance. La Reyniere, in his famous 
"Almanac of the Kitchen," says that macaroni is one of the 
most nutritious entremets, if neither butter nor cheese is spared. 
Then he adds, that if one must needs be economical he may 
take of Swiss cheese and Parmegiano (Parmesan cheese) half and 
half, since only the keenest gourmets will notice this stratagem. 

When I have macaroni to accompany a roast of beef I use 
cheese but moderately, since the meat supplies abundantly the 



LETTER XI 89 

lacking albuminoids. I prepare it in this case in the plain 
way I learned in Italy when I was young. But first of all I 
have to tell you how to boil the macaroni, be- Ho wto 
cause a great deal depends on this. The cook- bo1 ' macaroni - 
books generally tell you to boil it for fifteen or twenty min- 
utes, but I have found that this leaves it tough and raw in 
taste ; nor is it the length of time it is boiled in Italy. 
Have plenty of water in a deep pot (two quarts for half a 
pound), add salt enough to have the water taste, let it come to 
a sharp boil ; then put in your macaroni, which you break 
in pieces as long as you like, and see that the boiling takes 
place again quickly, and continues without interruption until 
it is done, which will be in not less than three-quarters of an 
hour, if the macaroni is of the large-piped kind ; if of the 
thin kind called spaghetti it will be done in slightly less time. 
I have for this as good an authority as Dumas on my side. 
To test it you have to try a piece of the macaroni between 
your fingers ; if it mashes easily, it is done ; you can also tell 
by the taste. Do not let it boil too long, else it will give its 
best nutritives to the water, getting reduced to an almost worth- 
less paste. For the same reason never wash it before boiling. 
As soon as done, drain on a sieve, and use at once. There 
are ever so many ways in which to serve it, each one more 
appetizing than the other. Macaroni presents, in fact, an 
open field to an inve'ntive genius. Proof of this is that such 
creative spirits as Dumas, Rossini, and others, bestowed their 
tender cares on macaroni, and were as proud of their successes 
in that line as of their masterpieces in literature and music. 
You are waiting, however, for my " Italian recipe for plain 
macaroni " : 

After it is boiled and drained put a layer of macaroni 
in a deep dish, heated beforehand; sprinkle with browned 
butter, and then with grated cheese ; add another |ta|jan 
layer, sprinkle with butter and cheese, and con- recipe for 

macaroni. 

tinue until all the macaroni is used up. Do not 
cover the dish, and serve at once. The proportions are gen- 
erally two ounces of cheese and a quarter-pound of butter for 



90 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

half a pound of macaroni ; but you may take less of butter 
and cheese if you choose. Simple as this recipe is, I have 
rarely found a cook who could prepare the dish as it should 
be. There is judgment required to get the right proportions of 
macaroni, butter, and cheese. If you have not got them in 
your hands and eyes, no recipe can teach you. If to accom- 
pany veal or poultry, which is less nutritious than beef, it is 
best to have a " macaroni with gravy " (al sugo). 

After the macaroni is ready for use, return it to the pot 
and add a meat gravy, which is quickest made by reducing to 
about a cupful (by sharp boiling) some broth made of a slice 
each of beef and veal, a few scraps of ham, and a bouquet of 
herbs, one onion, one clove, and a few pepper seeds. Shake 
the macaroni until it is thoroughly moistened with this gravy ; 
then serve in a hot dish, accompanied by grated cheese. 

If a sufficient quantity of a dish of macaroni is left over, 
you will do well to serve it for luncheon the following day in 

this way : Take one-half can of tomatoes and put 
A luncheon them on to boil with one saltspoonful of salt, a few 

macaroni black pepper seeds, a bouquet of parsley, and one 

Tauce! 0171 ^ small onion stuck with one clove. Let boil for 

fifteen minutes, then add a heaped teaspoonful of 
butter which you have mixed with a teaspoonful of flour and 
formed into a ball ; allow to boil until this is dissolved, which 
is sufficient time to cook the flour. Now pass the whole 
through a wire sieve, and take of it what you need to moisten 
well your macaroni. Heat the sauce over again, then add the 
macaroni. If the latter is in a lump it will fall apart when 
getting warm in the sauce. Do not let it boil, but set it covered 
up on a hot place until thoroughly heated through. The tomato 
sauce which is left will keep for several days, and is very useful 
also as an addition to either mutton, chicken, rice, or a soup. 

I intended to devote this single letter to rice and macaroni, 
but I see how unjust to my theme I was ; I have only begun on 
the latter, and my time is up for to-day. Still, I consider it so 
important a subject, and I have such delicious recipes in store 
for you, that I will venture to crowd them into my next. 



LETTER XII 

La decouverte d'un mets nouveau fait plus pour le bonheur du genre 
humain, que la decouverte d'une etoile. 

BRILLAT-SAVARIN. 

THERE are accords and discords in the composition of 
human food. As to macaroni, there is a striking harmony 
in its union with the sweetest of butter and the spiciest of 
Parma cheese. Now add to these the white meat and liver 
of chicken, and fresh mushrooms ; moisten the whole with a 
tomato sauce, and you will have almost an ambrosial symphony. 
In this strain, at least, the praises are sounded of the dishes 
of macaroni the great Rossini used to have served to his en- 
thusiastic guests. He, however, when asked about the secret 
of his culinary composition, was said to be mute " like Jupiter 
Olympus." Why macaroni should have such great attractions 
for musical genius I cannot tell, but we learn also that La- 
blache, the great singer, was an expert in macaroni, and that 
he took his secret with him to the grave. Then there was 
Isouard, the composer, who invented the stuffed macaroni 
pipes, and who used to prepare with his own hands the stuff- 
ing, which consisted of beef suet, venison, goose liver, truffles, 
and oysters. Rossini, however, it appears, was not always as 
close-mouthed as stated, for, if we are to believe " Mile. Fran- 
coise," she is in possession of a recipe in Rossini's own hand- 
writing for a dish of macaroni of which she partook at his 
villa at Passy, in company with Auber and Meyerbeer. I give 
you this recipe here as published in her " One Hundred Rec- 
ipes." It is called stufato a Fitalienne, with macaroni. 

Cover the bottom of a stew-pot with half a pound of 
chopped bacon ; when melted, brown in it four to five large 
onions chopped fine. This done, remove the onions with a 



92 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

skimmer, put them in a teacup, and fill it up with hot water ; 
Recipe for then set aside. Take from four to five pounds of 

85*****" the round of beef > p und St wel1 on a11 sides with 

macaroni. a WO oden mallet, and lard it with square strips 

of bacon half an inch wide, which have been turned over and 
over in a mixture of salt, pepper, three cloves powdered, and a 
minced clove of garlic. When thus prepared, put the beef into 
the hot fat left in the stew-pot, and roast it uncovered on the 
top of the stove, slowly for two hours. It must be of a nice 
brown all over. Then add to the meat the onion water, a 
pound of the knuckle of veal, and one cupful of thick tomato 
sauce ; cover the pot with a sheet of paper, and then with the 
pot-lid, and allow it to continue to stew very slowly for four 
hours longer. Meanwhile boil your macaroni (we will say 
half a pound) in salted water ; drain and serve in layers, each 
of which you cover with part of the gravy left in the stew-pot 
after the meat has been taken out and the fat removed, and 
with plenty of grated Parmesan cheese. Meat and macaroni 
are, of course, served together. 

I give you now the recipe of Alexandre Dumas for " mac- 
aroni a la menagere" (of the good housewife) : Boil your 
Reci e for macaroni for three-quarters of an hour in salted 

macaroni a \a water with a piece of butter and an onion stuck 

menagere. . , , . ,, . , 

with a clove. Drain well, put it in a casserole 
with a little butter, plenty of grated cheese, half Gruyere and 
half Parmesan, a sprinkle of nutmeg and coarsely ground pepper, 
a few teaspoonfuls of cream, and allow the whole to saute for a 
couple of minutes ; then serve. 

For "macaroni au gratin" fill a buttered dish with the 
above macaroni, dust over it some sifted bread-crumbs and 
Macaroni some grated cheese, and put it in the oven for fif- 

eu gratin. teen m i nu tes to get light brown on top. Serve in 

the same dish. This is also Dumas' recipe. You can improve 
it by adding some boiled ham chopped fine. 

If you have some meat-liquor to spare, you can enrich both 
the flavor and nutritiousness of your macaroni by using the 
broth instead of water. In that case you put it first in salted 



LETTER XII 93 

water and allow it to boil for ten minutes. Then you drain 
and put it into the boiling broth, which ought to be no more 
than sufficient to be absorbed by the macaroni at the time it 
is done. Shake it occasionally to prevent its getting attached 
to the bottom of the pot. . 

Cook it in this way for preparing the following dish : Have 
ready soaked for .a couple of hours half a cupful of dried 
mushrooms (which are to be found at the Italian Another Italian 
groceries), and boil for fifteen minutes in the dish of macaroni - 
same water it has been soaking in. Use some chicken 
broth for boiling half a pound of macaroni called spaghetti, 
until properly done in the above way. Take the giblets of a 
chicken, which you have cooked previously with an onion, six 
pepper seeds, and one clove ; chop them fine, as well as some 
small remnants of chicken meat, if you should have it. Make 
a tomato sauce of about half a canful, and have it hot. Add a 
piece of good butter, size of an egg, to the cooked spaghetti; 
mix it thoroughly ; then add the mushrooms and a few table- 
spoonfuls of the water in which they have cooked ; next add the 
chopped meat and one ounce of grated Parmesan cheese ; and 
lastly the tomato sauce, of which you stir into the whole just 
enough to moisten and bind it sufficiently. Place it in the 
oven with the door open for about ten minutes, then serve in 
a deep dish previously heated. This is quite a meal in itself, 
and very good. If you have it the day after you dined on a 
chicken, you will find this dish a very economical one. Ap- 
propriate the bones and giblets to furnish you with the broth 
for the macaroni, and then stomach, heart, and liver, with 
some remnants of the meat, are ready at hand for your needs. 
I will add, lest you should not know, that while it takes an hour or 
more to cook the stomach and heart of a chicken, the liver will be 
done in five to ten minutes. More cooking would make it tough. 

I call the above macaroni a la milanaise ; it is, however, a 
recipe of my own, concocted from hearing enthusiastically 
described a similar dish served at an Italian restaurant. I 
have made it a number of times, and have been always success- 
ful in pleasing whoever happened to dine at my table. 



94 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

I now will give you a recipe for a macaroni pie for five 

persons : Boil half a pound of macaroni in salted water ; 

drain ; mix with five ounces of raw pork chopped 

Macaroni pie. 

fine, five ounces of raw ham cut into tiny squares, 
one ounce and a half of grated Parmesan cheese, and two 
ounces of melted butter in which a teaspoonful of minced 
shallot (or onion) has been sauted until yellow. Take a deep 
pie-dish, butter it and dust it over with fine cracker-crumbs. Line 
this dish with puff-paste, and fill it with the above after mixing 
it well. Cover the whole with puff-paste, and bake in a moder- 
ately hot oven from one hour to one hour and a half. A gill 
of cream added to the macaroni just before putting it inside 
the crust, is a good addition. After the pie is baked turn 
it out on a hot dish, and serve either with a tomato or a 
white sauce. 

An equally good and rather simpler recipe for baked maca- 
roni is the following : Boil half a pound of macaroni in salted 

water : drain, and let it get cool. Meanwhile, 

Baked macaroni. ' 

take four ounces of butter, beat it to a cream, add 
very gradually, stirring continuously in one direction, two 
whole eggs, a gill of thick cream slightly sour, half a cupful of 
cooked ham chopped fine, a saltspoonful of salt, half a tea- 
spoonful of minced onion, two tablespoonfuls of grated cheese. 
Last of all add the cooked macaroni. Pour this into a but- 
tered baking-dish and bake half an hour. Turn out and serve. 
A dish for Any portion of it left over may be cut into thick 

slices on the following day, and sauted a light 
brown. It makes a nice dish for luncheon, especially when 
served with tomatoes or green salad. 

To believe an Italian enthusiast on macaroni, it is the most 
difficult thing in the whole art of cookery to produce a dish of 
perfect macaroni. He exclaims, " If you only knew what 
juices of meat, purees of tomato, delicate creamy paste, and 
what point of cooking, what constant watching and minute 
care this complicated dish exacts, you would never resort to 
those piteous counterfeits which bring discredit on the French 
cuisine the first one of the whole world ! " 



LETTER XII 95 

I quote this, not to discourage, but rather to spur you on, 
and show what culinary genius may accomplish in any country 
in the world, whether in France, Italy, or America. 

In conclusion to my lessons on rice and macaroni, I have to 
say something special in regard to mushrooms, the flavor of 
which is essential for the production of a dish of About 
either when of the highest order. Mushrooms, if mushrooms - 
not found sprouting wild, are the product of painstaking cult- 
ure and are correspondingly expensive to buy. They are 
light, however, in weight, and a quarter of a pound will be 
sufficient for your purposes. The cultivated mushrooms are 
inferior to the wild ones in flavor and aroma, but they have 
this great advantage, that you can be sure they are genuine, 
while in gathering them in copse or field, you are always 
in danger of confounding them with poisonous fungi, unless 
your botanical knowledge and experience are a sufficient 
safeguard. There are a large number of eatable fungi growing 
wild, and their flavor is in most cases particularly spicy and 
agreeable. But in our country we only know the mushroom, 
which is one of the most delicate of eatable fungi. When 
I was in the mountains of Thuringia, Germany, in summer 
time, some little peasant girls came to offer me for sale several 
kinds of strange-looking fungi, which they said were very good 
to eat. On my asking them how they came to know that they 
were not poisonous, they replied : "We learn that from our 
schoolmaster ; he teaches us. He shows us which are the 
good and which the bad ones." My trust in the schoolmas- 
ter's teachings, and the intelligence of the pupils, did not mis- 
lead me ; every one of these fungi was good and wholesome. 

The wild mushroom (Agaricus campestris} is apt to sprout 
up suddenly after a warm shower on meadows where cattle, 
and especially horses, have been pasturing. They also appear 
sometimes on the grassy bottom of a woodland, where it edges 
out toward the open field. The mushroom comes up like a 
little white ball, or button, and is at its best before it grows up 
to have much of a stalk, which will be in a very short time, 
since in the course of a day it passes through all the stages 



96 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

from childhood to old age. It is all over white at first. Later 
on, a white skin, ringed around the upper part of the stalk, 
frees itself from the edge of the vaulted top, or button, and 
the latter shows a lining of pinkish scales, which become 
darker and at last black. As the mushroom grows older, the 
outside of the top gradually spreads and flattens out. Its sur- 
face is silky to the touch, and sometimes is covered with tiny, 
hardly perceptible scales. The flesh of the stalk and top 
is of a solid texture and exhales a peculiarly agreeable odor. 1 
There is a toadstool, Agaricus muscarius, and a globular agaric 
very similar to the mushroom, which are both poisonous. It is 
said that both an onion and a silver spoon will turn black if 
cooked with poisonous fungi ; but I am afraid this is more of a 
legend than of truth. 

The danger of confounding the poisonous and the eatable fungi 
is so much the more to be regretted, since the latter are not 
merely highly palatable, but also very nourishing. They have, 
in fact, pretty much the same nutritive properties as meat. 
On an average, they have as much as 3 to 8 per cent of pure 
nitrogen, besides being rich in alkalies and phosphoric acid. 

The canned mushrooms, which come either in tin or glass, 
are not to be compared with the fresh ones. The most deli- 
How to cook cious way to cook the latter is to put them in a 
mushrooms. saucepan with a little butter, a taste of vinegar, an 
onion halved, a few pepper seeds, a little salt, and to let them 
stew for just five minutes. They must be served at once, with 
all their juice. If they are to be added to a sauce, they may 
be done in the same way ; and be sure to add their strained 
liquor likewise. 

I have, however, not told you as yet how to prepare the 
How-to pre- mushrooms for cooking: Peel off carefully the 
pare mushrooms thin, silky skin covering them on the outside, and 

for cooking, . , n t i 

scrape away with a small knife or teaspoon the 
scales visible underneath the top. Now, since mushrooms are 

1 The stalk, which must never be hollow, is eaten as well as the cap when 
young, but had better be omitted after old age has set in. If the mushroom 
has become wormy it is not fit for use. 






LETTER XII 97 

a luxury, we must make the most of them on those rare 
occasions when we indulge in purchasing them. Therefore, 
take the skins and scrapings, wash them in cold 

. ... What to do 

water, dram them, and dry them either in the sun with the skins 
or in the oven after the fire gets low, and put a 
them away either in a clean paper bag or a glass jar. They 
will serve as a mushroom flavoring for soups, sauces, ragouts, 
etc. Soak them in water over night before you use them, and 
then simmer them in the same water for about an hour. 
Strain, and use the water only, which will be of a rich brown 
color. 

Of the truffle, which is the costliest of all fungi, I have not 
much to say, because it is in reality out of the reach of people 
like you and me. Nor need we care : for the 

tri 1.11 11 i About truffles. 

truffles, which have to be brought to our country 
from over the ocean, are generally of a very poor and adulter- 
ated kind. Truffles grow as much as one foot deep underground 
in France, Italy, and Germany, where sometimes dogs and some- 
times pigs are used to " hunt " them up. Those of Pe"rigord 
in France are considered the best. The recipes say, cook 
them in wine, or in champagne. Brillat-Savarin calls the truffle 
le diamant de la cuisine, and, to hear him and others, you might 
think that a pheasant and even a turkey are not fit to be eaten, 
unless stuffed with this precious growth. 

Have I been digressing too much? Or will you charitably 
consider this little deviation as my introduction to the vege- 
tables, of which you will think it high time to speak ? 



LETTER XIII 

'Twas thought one hundred years ago 

Good food for pigs (and that was all), 
But now the gentry love them so, 

The big, and eke the small. 

GERMAN FOLK SONG. 

OUR forefathers, the Anglo-Saxons, knew in the dark ages 
that vegetables by themselves are poor food. They 
liked them best accompanied by milk, butter and cheese how 
correct the guide of instinct ! In our enlightened times we 
have sure knowledge that vegetables are not able to nourish 
man, unless complemented by other foods which contain what 
they lack. On the other hand, also, vegetables are neces- 
sary in connection with animal substances, since they furnish 
the acids, the alkalies, and mineral matters of which the latter 
contain but a scant measure. Vegetables are, in fact, indispen- 
sable to a healthy diet. Their mild acids act as a dissolvent 
on the albumen, often so hard to digest in its solid form, i.e. 
after being cooked ; and green vegetables in 

The value of 111 

vegetables their cooling and refreshing effect are invaluable 

in nutrition. ,, j-ir Ta_t-j 1.1 

as a part of our daily fare. Last, but not least, 
they are pleasing to the eye, as well as to the palate, since with 
their gayer colors they are apt to relieve the sober hues of the 
meats. Therefore, we may gladly be content with their pov- 
erty in albuminoids and carbohydrates which is accentuated 
by their enormous percentage of water as long as we do 
not neglect to complement them by those nutrients they lack. 

Of all vegetables, those styled pulse (shelled beans, dried 
peas, lentils) are the most nutritious 1 so much so that they 
furnish with very slight additions all that is needed to nourish a 

1 See p. 22. 
98 



LETTER XIH 99 

person. In their unripe state we know them as string-beans 
and green peas. Lentils, on account of their indigestibility, 
we will not take into account here. 

Next to them in rank, but indeed far inferior, come potatoes. 
They are, in reality, as " feeders " not the cheap food they are 
commonly thought to be. This is chiefly owing 

. . J . f . J , 3 About potatoes. 

to their large percentage of water, i.e. refuse. 
They contain 75.5 per cent of it. You see, it leaves but little for 
the food-matter, which consists of 2 per cent albuminoids, 20.7 
per cent carbohydrates, and no fat at all. This poor showing ac- 
counts for the immoderate use of tea or coffee among the poorer 
classes who feed on potatoes. Their craving for the lacking 
nourishment leads them instinctively to make up for it in the 
best way they can. You will know from this, that potatoes 
are not worth their money, unless they are accompanied by 
that kind of food which supplies the nitrogen they are 
devoid of. Yet despite all this, potatoes are a general favor- 
ite on our tables, and their prosaic nature does not prevent 
their being transformed into a variety of very nice dishes. The 
chapter on potatoes in the literature of cookery is quite a volu- 
minous one, but I intend chiefly to tell you how to treat pota- 
toes in boiling, roasting, and steaming, and then to give you a 
few nice recipes not commonly known. You would smile, very 
likely, at my wanting to teach you how to boil potatoes 
"such a simple affair" if you had not complained that your 
potatoes were not always what they should be, sometimes 
watery instead of dry, and then again soapy rather than mealy. 
Even poor potatoes can be made to be the proper thing if 
properly cooked. Only you must know how. 

To boil potatoes, wash them very clean through several 
waters ; any dirt remaining will enter into the potato through 
the medium of the water. Wash them only just Howtoboii 
before boiling them. Cut away an inch wide of p tatoes - 
the skin around the middle of each potato ; this facilitates the 
escape of their poisonous substance called solanine, which is 
next to the inside of the skin, and is most hurtful in potatoes 
not entirely ripe, or in those sprouting toward spring. It is 



100 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

this poison which causes the obnoxious smell of the water in 
which potatoes have been boiled. Although they get done 
sooner by being put on to boil in cold water, it is advisable to 
put them into hot, or boiling water, because it saves as much 
as possible of their small amount of nitrogenous substance. 
Boil them in plenty of water and keep the steam in by covering 
the pot tightly. Add some salt after they are half done. They 
need a half-hour's boiling. Try them by sticking in a fork ; if 
soft all through, remove them at once ; if you allow them to 
boil longer than needful, they will take up more water than they 
need to soften them and will get watery. Pour off all the 
water and put them, with the pot-lid slightly to one side, on a 
hot place for a short while to get entirely dry. Serve them at 
once in a folded napkin. Another way to boil potatoes is to 
peel the potatoes, have them very clean, put them in boiling 
water, salted, and cover them tightly. They will be done in 
about twenty-five minutes. Pour the water off at once ; do as 
before to have them dry. 

To steam potatoes, peel them, and when very clean put them 
Howto in a colander over boiling water; cover tightly 

steam potatoes. w j t h a \[^ an( } i eave them until done. 

To bake potatoes, wash them very clean, dry them with a 
towel and lay them in a good oven. They will need about one 
HOW to bake hour to get done. By baking them the water 
potatoes. evaporates, and you get all the nutriment they 

contain. They are also the most wholesome, since in baking 
a part of their starch is already turned into sugar, and thus 
some of the work to be done by digestion is performed before- 
hand. 

For mashed potatoes, take potatoes boiled as in second 
recipe ; add a good-sized piece of butter, some salt, if needed, 
Afewvari- ^^ while mashing them, a little hot cream or 

eties of mashed milk from time to time. Work them over and 
over with the masher until quite smooth. If you 
take cream instead of milk, you will need less butter. A very 
wholesome variety is made with the addition of green herbs : 
Take one half of spinach leaves, the other half equal parts of 



LETTER XIII 101 

sorrel, chervil, parsley, and tarragon (the latter is optional) ; par- 
boil them with a little good broth,, but so .that they, keep their 
green color. Then chop theiri, taJdi-jg; care to savVtheir juices, 
and mix them into your mashed .potatoes,, ipwjaich jtou omit 
cream or milk. Another varjefy^ , jfcei ' following V Press your 
mashed potatoes through a colander into the dish they will be 
served in. They are called a la neige. Mashed potatoes 
ought always to be served at once, but most particularly the 
latter kind. 

If you have boiled potatoes left over, a very nice way to use 
them a second time is this : Grate them into the dish they are 
to be served in, put bits of butter here and there, Mashed pota . 
and dust a little fine salt over them; then put ioesau 8 ratin> 
them in a hot oven for five minutes. 

New potatoes, boiled either in their skins and then peeled, or 
peeled first and then boiled, are excellent served with a plain 
bechamel sauce 1 poured over them. Or chop . 

f A few other 

some parsley, heat it in some melted butter, and varieties of po - 
when it bubbles up take it off the fire and pour it 
over the potatoes ready for serving. 

For roasted potatoes, take either small potatoes, raw, of an 
even size, and peel them ; or scoop little balls out of large 
potatoes, with the help of a potato-cutter. Pour Howtoroast 
boiling water over them, cover them up, and leave potatoes on 
them standing for ten minutes. Then drain them, 
put them in a large colander, and put them on a hot place till 
they are dry. Put butter in a pan, about two ounces for one 
quart of potatoes, and when very hot put in the potatoes, one 
beside the other. Sprinkle some salt over them. Cover them 
up at first, giving them a toss from time to time. When get- 
ting too hot, leave off the cover, shake them frequently, and 
turn them when brown on the under side. Finish them on a 
slow fire. It will take from one to one and a half hours be- 
fore they are done. If you wish them glazed, dust some fine 
sugar over them after they are tender. These potatoes are 
very nice for garnishing. 

1 See p. 72. 



102 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

From the untold number of recipes I know of, I select the 
following ones ! 

Potato Pudding witfc CUvaesef. 4- Take one quarter-pound of 
potatoes* boiled -in, their skins^ peej them, and, when they are 
entirety cold, grate thent * add.on.e eunce of grated cheese, one- 
half ounce of butter, and one-half pint of milk. Put all this 
in a stew-pan, and stir over the fire until it turns into a stiff 
mixture. Then pour it into a deep dish, let it get cold ; add 
the yolk of one egg one scant tablespoonful of cream, and 
beat the whole for a while in one direction. At last add the 
stiff snow of the white of an egg. Butter a mould, dust it over 
with fine cracker-crumbs, fill into it the above, and bake in a 
slow oven. Serve as soon as done. 

Potato Croquettes. Take butter the size of an egg, beat it 
to a cream ; add gradually two eggs, one teaspoonful of flour, 
one saltspoonful of salt, and six heaped tablespoonfuls of 
grated potatoes which have been boiled and then peeled. 
Form this mass into sausage-shaped croquettes the size of a 
large thumb ; turn them in beaten egg, then in fine bread c/r 
cracker-crumbs, and fry them in plenty of hot lard until of a 
golden yellow. 

Potato Noodles. Take six large potatoes, boil them, peel 
them, and place them while hot on a baking-board ; mash 
them with a rolling-pin. To one heaped soupplateful of them 
add a good sprinkle of salt, two tablespoonfuls of flour, and 
one egg. Make a stiff dough of it, which you manipulate 
with your hands, until a long sausage-like roll about one and a 
half inches in diameter is formed. This you cut into sections 
of a finger's width, and these again you lightly roll with the 
tips of your fingers until the ends are rounded off, by which 
process the noodles get slightly longer and thinner. Now take 
a large iron frying-pan, put into it nearly three tablespoonfuls 
of lard, and when very hot put in your noodles side by side ; 
let them get brown first on one side, and then on the other, 
turning them with a fork. Take them out with a skimmer, and 
place them on a piece of blotting-paper before serving. This 
is a favorite dish in the south of Germany, and, when success- 



LETTER XIII 103 

ful, as nice as any Saratoga potatoes. They can also be warmed 
over the following day by putting them in a hot oven for a few 
minutes before serving. 

Another delightful dish of the same origin is the following, 
called " potato balloons." Make a thin batter of two cupfuls 
of flour, half a pint of milk, the yolks of two egers. 

, ' r i r i -n n 1i Potato balloons. 

and a saltspoonful of salt. Beat it well ; then add 
six potatoes which have been boiled the day before and grated 
while warm. Add also at the last moment the stiff snow of 
the two whites of egg. Take a spoonful at a time to drop into 
plenty of boiling hot lard. It will form into balls, which are to 
turn to a deep yellow before you remove them with a skimmer 
to be served immediately. 

I never throw away a single potato which is left over ; there 
is always some use for it. If even one or two only are left, I 
grate them and use them to thicken a soup. If How to use po _ 
more, they can be sauted the next morning for tatoes left over - 
breakfast, or cut into dice and heated up with hot milk, to 
which some salt and a piece of butter has been added. By put- 
ting them in a hot oven and allowing the milk to be partly 
absorbed by the potatoes, this makes a very good plain 
dish. 

Another way is to transform them into "potatoes a la maitre 
d' hotel" : Cut your boiled potatoes into slices, fry them in hot 
lard, then put them into a stew-pan with some Potatoes a ia 
fresh butter, chopped parsley, salt, pepper, and a ma ' ltre d ' h tel - 
few squeezes of lemon juice. Let the whole get hot, and leave 
it on the fire until well commingled ; then add a very little hot 
cream, and serve. This latter is Alexander Dumas' recipe, 
which warrants its excellence. You can also do the way I 
learned in Switzerland and have " potatoes with cheese." Slice 
some potatoes rather thin. Put them in layers into p t a t es with 
a buttered dish, alternating with layers of thinly cheese - 
sliced cheese, finishing with the latter. Put small pieces of 
butter on top. Bake in a slow oven until of a light brown. 
The cheese underneath ought to be no more than just 
dissolved. 



104 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

If you wish for one reason or another to render a dish of 
potatoes more nourishing than ordinary, select either one of the 
two following recipes : 

Potatoes stewed in Milk. Peel raw potatoes and cut them 
into slices ; put them in a saucepan, cover them up with milk, 
add salt (a teaspoonful to a quart of milk) , and boil them slowly 
until done. Be careful not to let the slices drop to pieces. 
Meanwhile take some butter two ounces (or size of an egg), 
for two pounds of potatoes add to it half an onion (whole), 
and half a tablespoonful of flour ; mix over the fire, and when 
quite smooth add the milk strained from the potatoes. Cook, 
while stirring, for about five minutes, when you will have a 
thickish sauce which you strain through a sieve over your po- 
tato slices. Should your sauce be too thick, add a little more 
milk, and some salt if necessary. Place the whole over the fire 
once more, and let it get hot, without boiling, shaking the con- 
tents of the saucepan every few seconds. 

Potatoes in Broth. Take a neck piece of beef weighing 
about a pound and a half. Put it on to cook with boiling water, 
and treat it the way I have taught you. 1 When done, put it in 
another pot with a little of its liquor, and keep it warm. Have 
ready some potatoes boiled in their skins, but not quite done. 
Peel and slice them, and put them into the beef broth with the 
addition of a few onions thinly sliced (the latter are not 
essential and can be omitted). Cook them until entirely 
done, when add some minced parsley. Do not stir, but 
toss the stew-pot so as to mix the contents. Serve with some 
of the broth poured over the potatoes. Surround the latter 
with the boiled beef sliced down. Have the dish accom- 
panied by French mustard and cucumber pickles. 

Both these recipes are well to remember on days when not 
much attention can be paid to cooking. But the best of the 
kind is the following, which in regard to nutrients gives you in 
itself all that is required for a whole meal. Dr. Hermann 
Klencke, from whose book on domestic chemistry I take the 

1 See p. 17. 



LETTER XIII 105 

recipe, says this dish represents "nourishment of the highest 
order." To prepare it, you will have to take a stew- 
pot with a well-fitting lid, which you make air- and ^presenting 
steam-tight by tying a folded and dampened towel ^I" 1316 * 6 
right over and around the crack between pot and 
lid, closing it up thereby completely. Before you do this, put 
into your pot alternate layers of sliced raw potatoes and slices 
of uncooked mutton. Sprinkle each layer with a little salt, 
pepper, and minced shallots (or onions, but shallots are pref- 
erable). Begin with a layer of potatoes and finish in the same 
way when about three inches from the top, to leave room for the 
swelling of the food. Finally add a scanty gill of cold water, 
and close your pot as described. Put the latter into another 
and larger pot in which a sufficient amount of water is boiling 
to reach up to three-quarters of the height of the inside pot. 
Now cover up the larger pot with a lid. Let it remain boiling 
from two and a half to three hours, then take out the inside 
pot, and allow it to get cooled off somewhat before removing 
towel and lid. If you should open the pot at once, before the 
steam had time to condense and form itself into a liquid, a 
large part of the food-aroma would escape with the steam, and 
the food-matter would become dry. The contents of the pot, 
when served, will contain all the nutrients of meat and potatoes, 
without loss of anything. Each will complement the other, and 
satisfy both palate and appetite. The juice surrounding the 
dish is the pure juice of the meat, and better than any broth 
can be. 

With this plain but excellent dish I will close my lesson on 
potatoes ; for I know how anxious you are to have a variety 
of vegetables from which to choose for your table. 



LETTER XIV 



Sameness in one's food brews mischief. 



DR. WIEL. 



I WILL now tell you of vegetables more delicate, which are 
chiefly valuable on account of the various mineral matters 
and alkalies contained in them. To give you a 
comparative idea of their food-values, I will formu- 
late for reference a table of those vegetables which have been 
analyzed. 



Vegetables and 
their food-values. 





Albumi- 
noids. 


Fats. 


Carbo- 
hydrates. 


Water. 


Cellu- 
lose. 


Mineral 
Matters. 


Green Peas 


6. 4 


o. =; 


12. I 


78. o 


2. O 


. O 


String Beans (very young) 
String Beans (older) . . 
Kohlrabi 


5-5 
3- o 
3. o 


0.5 
o. o 
o. o 


7- o 
6- 5 
8. o 


84. o 
89. o 
86. o 


2. 
I. 
2. O 


. O 
. 
. o 


Cauliflower 


2 ^ 


o o 


4. ^ 


QI O 


o 


. o 


Spinach 


2. C 


o ^ 


6. o 


88. o 


. O 


. o 


Asparagus 


2. O 


o. o 


2. 5 


94- 


. O 


, d 


Cabbage 


2 O 


o o 


^. o 


QO O 


2 O 


. o 


Carrots (young ones) . . 
Turnips 


I. O 
I. O 


0. 

o. o 


9. o 
7. 5 


88. o 
80. 5 


. O 
. O 


. 

. o 

















If you deduct the percentage of water all these vegetables 
contain, you will know how small the amount is of their dry 
substance in every hundred parts, and how necessary it is to 
make good their shortcomings by combining them with com- 
plementing nutrients. The elements of which they are com- 
posed have to be economized so much the more because of 
their small proportions. Their relatively large percentage of 
mineral matters is most essential for supplying vital power 
to the blood, and helping thus to restore day by day the waste 
106 



LETTER XIV 107 

of our system. Therefore, like meat, they cannot afford to lose 
any of their nutritive substances. Consequently we must not 
keep them soaking in water, nor put them on to boil in cold 
water. In regard to onions, cabbage, and string-beans, it is 
advisable to throw away the first water, after they have boiled 
up once or twice ; it renders them more wholesome, inasmuch 
as these vegetables contain some sulphuric gases inimical to 
digestion, which thus are got rid of. In all available cases, 
however, I am in favor of serving the vegetables with the liquid 
they are cooked in, for only in this way can we get the whole 
benefit of their delicate and volatile mineral constituents, and 
preserve their original and characteristic flavor. 

The worst vegetables in the world are those prepared by 
English rules, when they are boiled in water until done, and 
the latter is thrown away, after having extracted all the good 
the vegetable food contained, leaving it insipid and flat-tasting. 
It was this style of vegetables which made a German author, 
Ludvvig Boerne, who was condemned to a life of exile, say 
that they reminded him of Etruscan vases, the designs of which 
showed only the first and rudest principles of art an expres- 
sion almost too good for that sort of misused food. 

We will see now how to make the best of it. You notice 
that among the vegetables enumerated in our table, green 
peas make the best show as to nutrients. They are also the 
most digestible of them all, if not too old. In 

About peas, 

our country they are generally too mature when and how to 
picked for use. To get the best they contain 
and have them tender, cook them as follows : After they are 
rinsed in cold water put them in a saucepan in which a little 
butter has been melted ; let them stew for several minutes, 
shaking them a few times to prevent their sticking to the bottom ; 
sprinkle with a little salt ; add some boiling water from time 
to time not more than just enough to keep them moist. 
This water must be for the most part absorbed, and the rest 
served with the peas. If thrown away, the best of the latter 
would be thrown away with it. Shake them occasionally, to 
have all the peas come in contact with the liquid. They 



108 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

ought to be done in fifteen to twenty minutes, if young. If 
your water is hard, add a saltspoonful of baking-soda to it in the 
beginning. Serve the peas with a piece of fresh butter on top. 

I will mention here that, in order to preserve the beautiful 
green of peas, string beans, spinach, etc., it is necessary to cook 
them uncovered, and to add salt to them as soon as put on 
to boil. 

Green peas need no accessories of parsley or mint, as French 
and German cookery prescribe. They are of such fine and 
delicate flavor that any kind of spice, be it exotic or herby, 
would merely deteriorate them. 

It is a curious circumstance, which might interest you, that, 
although the ancients knew them as pulse, peas were unknown 
for culinary purposes in their green state until the time of 
Louis XIV., when they at once enraptured the court circles. 
Madame de Maintenon writes at the time (1696) : "The sub- 
ject of peas continues: the impatience to eat them; the 
pleasure to have eaten them ; and the delight to eat them 
again, are the three points our princes talk about for the last 
few days. It is a fashion, a craze ! " 

They have continued favorites ever since, and deserve it. 
Now let us see what they agree with and what are their com- 
plements. They assort with asparagus, cauliflower, young 
squash, and young carrots, in which they find increase of their 
mineral and other values, besides harmonizing with them in 
taste ; while lamb, mutton, and poultry not only are in harmony 
with, but complement peas in regard to fats and albuminoids. 
To obtain a dish of almost perfect composition you might do 
as follows : 

Take a round platter, place in the middle of it a fine head of 

cauliflower boiled in salted water with the addition of a piece 

of butter the size of half an egg. Encircle it with 

composed a wreath of green peas, which in turn you sur- 

of vegetables round by a rim of boiled rice. Put outside of it 

and meat. * 

a circle of boiled carrots cut into wheels, and 
surround the whole either with lamb chops, or stewed sweet- 
breads. 



LETTER XIV 109 

Next to green peas come string beans when quite young, which, 
however, if maturer, are surpassed in their nutritive quali- 
ties by kohlrabi, a vegetable introduced from stringbeans 
Germany. Cook string beans thus : String them and how to ' 

- ,,..-. , , cook them. 

from each end twice, i.e. four times altogether. 
For nothing is more disagreeable than to eat beans not 
entirely freed of their strings. Wash them very well through 
several waters, rubbing them through your hands to get rid 
of parasites which are apt to cling to them, and are invisible 
to the naked eye. This done, you cut them slantwise into 
pieces an inch wide, and parboil them as stated before ; then 
drain and put them into boiling mutton or beef broth enough 
to cover them. They need more or less boiling according to 
their kind or age ; not less than one hour. Some need two 
hours, some even more ; but I would say the latter are not 
fit to eat because too hard to digest. By slow boiling and 
evaporation the most of the liquid ought to disappear ; the rest 
must be served with the beans. They need more fat than 
peas, not having any themselves. Serve them with beef, mut- 
ton, or pork. 

In the tables at my disposal some of our most favored vege- 
tables are missing. I cannot, therefore, give you the nutritive 
values of Lima beans and some others, but I judge from the 
mealiness of the Lima bean that it must have a large percentage 
of carbohydrates. Cook them in boiling water, slightly salted. 
Do not take any more water than will cook them, HOW to cook 
and when tender add a little hot milk, in which a Lima beans - 
good-sized piece of butter has been melted. Add some salt. 
Leave them standing in a hot place for a short while to get 
saturated with the milk. 

Kohlrabi are only fit to eat when quite young ; later they con- 
tain much fibrous matter which is indigestible. Peel them, 
halve them, cut them into thin slices, parboil in HOW to cook 
salted water, and drain them. Stew them slowly kohlrabi - 
in some light-colored broth. When they begin to get tender 
add the heart of the green leaves growing at the top of the 
kohlrabi, after cutting them into shreds. They are of fine 



110 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

flavor, and will color the dish slightly green. When done, 
drain the vegetable and use the liquid in which they have 
cooked for a bechamel sauce, which you pour over your kohl- 
rabi. Let them get right hot in it, and serve. 

Taking into consideration the downward ratio of nitrogenous 

substance which is the guiding standard I have next to 

mention spinach, then cauliflower, cabbage, aspar- 

About spinach. , . _,. f 

agus, carrots, and turnips. Ihe two latter show 
more carbohydrates owing to the sugar contained in them 
than any of the foregoing, except green peas. Spinach is a 
highly valuable vegetable because of its mineral matters, espe- 
cially iron and lime. Therefore, you must be most careful not 
to waste its precious juices by throwing away the water it is 
cooked in, or pressing its leaves before chopping it fine. Some, 
indeed, prefer not to chop it at all, and they are no doubt 
right; but table fashion will have it chopped. 

For a puree of spinach, pick the leaves over carefully, omit- 
ting the coarse and thick-ribbed ones ; wash them several times, 
A puree throw them in plenty of boiling water, well salted ; 

of spinach. j eave them in a few moments, then drain, and 

cool them off in cold water, from which drain them again. Now 
chop them very fine in a wooden bowl. Take a saucepan, put 
in a piece of butter, and when hot add to it your spinach. Stew 
very gently in its own juice, merely adding a little boiling 
water, if necessary, to prevent scorching. When done, which 
will be in about one-half hour, the spinach ought to have suffi- 
cient consistency to serve it heaped up in a dish, or to use it 
as a garnish around any kind of meat. 

If spinach is served as a course by itself, a garnish of croutons, 
or quarters of hard boiled eggs, or both is in place. A puree 
Spinach as an of spinach is suitable for an entremets a course 
entremets. between the roast and dessert and as such is 

nice accompanied by either poached eggs, or pancakes * rolled up. 

A cupful of spinach puree left over will furnish you with 
material for a spinach pudding on the following day. 

1 See p. 169. 



LETTER XIV 111 

Take butter the size of half an egg, and when melted and 
hot, add to it a slice of onion and some parsley, both minced ; 
one stale French roll, of which the crust is A S p inac h 
grated off, and which has been soaked in milk P uddm g- 
and pressed dry. Mix well over a moderate fire, and let 
it stew for about five minutes. Have some remnants of 
cooked meat chopped fine half a cupful is sufficient 
and beat the yokes of four eggs until light. Add both meat 
and yokes to the foregoing. Taste it, and see that it is salted 
just right. Finally, add the whites of the four eggs beaten to 
a stiff snow. 1 Put the whole into a well-buttered pudding 
form, and either steam it, covered up in a vessel with boiling 
water for one hour, or bake it in a moderate oven until by 
inserting a broom-straw nothing will adhere to the latter when 
pulled out. 

This excellent dish requires a sauce for serving with it. A 
white sauce with a flavor of lemon juice answers the purpose. 
An addition to it of mushrooms is, of course, better. Still 
better is a thickening of coarsely chopped chicken, cooked 
beforehand. 

Spinach will bear warming up the next day ; although I do 
not quite agree with the French canon, who ate spinach only after 
it had been cooked up for six consecutive days, with the addi- 
tion, each time, of a fresh lump of butter. This canon's name 
was Chevrier, who also invented the hermetically closed stew- 
pot. 

A very pleasant combination is that of spinach and sorrel ; 
especially, in spring, when the young leaves of the latter are 
not as acid as the later growth. Sorrel by itself is a delight- 
fully refreshing vegetable for those who like the So ^ 
acidity of it. You treat it exactly like spinach, but 
to bind it, add the yoke of an egg beaten up in a little cream, 
at the last moment. 

To boil cauliflower, put it upside down into cold water strongly 
salted ; this destroys the insects apt to vegetate between the 

1 See p. 183. 



112 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

roses or flowerets. Leave the head in but a short time, then 

rinse it off, and put it into boiling water slightly salted, top 

downward. See that it is fully covered with water, 

Cauliflower. , , .,. . , ' ,,,-, 

and boiling continuously. It will be done in 
twenty to thirty minutes. It gets tasteless if you cook it after 
it is tender, which you can test with a larding-needle thrust 
through the middle. Lift it out carefully, and place it on a 
platter, then pour over it a bechamel sauce for which you use 
some of the water it was boiled in. Or you may use the fol- 
A sauce for lowing sauce : For a small head of cauliflower 

cauliflower. take ha jf a p int Q f the water j n ^^ it Was 

boiled (or the same amount of veal broth) ; add to it two 
ounces of butter, a teaspoonful of flour, a taste of nutmeg, and 
the yokes of two eggs beaten beforehand. Stir the whole over 
the fire until it just comes to a boil, and no longer. Continue 
to stir for several minutes after you have taken it off the fire, 
to avert all danger of curdling. 

To cook cauliflower with cheese, take a dish and moisten 

it with a thick bechamel sauce ; dust over it some grated 

Parmesan cheese ; then arrange on it a layer of 

Cauliflower au . v/j ? -i j i c \ i 

gratin, with large flowerets of cauliflower boiled beforehand, 
and spread over them more of the sauce, and 
cheese thickly sprinkled ; put in a hot oven until of a golden 
yellow, and serve in the same dish. 

A head of cauliflower divided into its different roses before 
Cauliflower, being boiled, and then served on the same dish 
with lobster. w ifa b ii e( i lobster, produces a good effect, and 
tastes well. Serve it with an herb sauce, 1 to which add the 
minced coral of the lobster. 

Cauliflower served with either pigeons, chickens, veal cut- 
lets, or roast beef, is a good combination. 

To prepare asparagus for boiling, shave off with a sharp 

knife the fine outside fibres, beginning below the 

head downward, and cut away the woody end 

below. Do it just before needed. Rinse in cold water, then tie 

i See p. 74. 



LETTER XIV 113 

the stalks together by the dozen, and put them in plenty of 
boiling water slightly salted. They ought to be done in twenty 
minutes. If left boiling too long, they will harden, and, more- 
over, lose their flavor together with their delicate mineral mat- 
ters, which render asparagus so valuable. Remove the strings 
after they are placed on the dish they are to be served in. 
Have with them some melted butter, or a bechamel sauce 
made slightly acid, and thickened with the yoke of one or more 
eggs. A sauce Hollandaise^ agrees well with them. But 
whatever sauce you make, always use for it some of the water 
in which the asparagus was boiled, because it absorbs part of 
its flavor and wholesome properties. 

There is a great deal of difference in asparagus, for it is 
very particular as to the soil in which it grows. It likes 
sandy soil much better than clayey soil, and fashions itself 
accordingly. In southern Germany the asparagus of Ulm on 
the Danube is especially famous ; but at the town itself the 
highest priced is that grown on the left bank of the river, 
because superior to the asparagus grown on the opposite bank. 

When asparagus begins to appear, and is high in price, the 
thin kind, which is cheapest, may be appropriated with advan- 
tage for a dish of asparagus en petits pois (in shape Asparaguses 
of peas). Cut the asparagus into sections as large P etits P is - 
as full-grown peas. Cook them in salted water, drain them 
when tender, and take the water to make a sauce in this way : 
Melt a tablespoonful of butter, mix with half a tablespoonful of 
flour, to which add, when bubbling, asparagus water sufficient 
to make a slightly thick sauce. Add the yolks of one or two 
eggs at the last moment. Pour this sauce over your asparagus, 
and allow it to stand in a warm place covered up for about 
ten minutes before serving. 

Asparagus assorts best with the more delicate kinds of meat, 
but it is also acceptable with boiled ham. 

Among the cabbages, Brussels sprouts are the aristocratic 
branch of the family. They are a very sweet and delicate 

1 See p. 131. 



114 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

vegetable. Take the little roses, rinse them in cold water, and 
throw them into boiling water salted. Let them boil up once, 
Brussels an( l no m ore. Drain and pour cold water over 

s P routs - them ; then melt a small piece of butter, in which 

you stew them gently until tender. If they should get too dry, 
add a very little beef broth. They go with any kind of dark 
meat, as well as with boiled ham or tongue. They are deli- 
cious, accompanied by boiled chestnuts, either as a, puree or 
whole as a garnish. 1 

To boil cabbage, cut the heads into quarters, taking out 
the stalks inside. Treat it like cauliflower in cleansing it. 
Boil it in broth ; that obtained from pork is the 
best, for cabbage needs plenty of fat to make 
it digestible. The most economical way is to stew it with ribs 
of pork, covering both meat and cabbage with boiling water, and 
cooking them gently for two hours, allowing the water gradually 
An economical to be absorbed and serving the pork on top of the 
dish - cabbage. By adding a few small sausages, which 

also garnish well, this dish, followed by a pudding or some 
sweet pancakes, is quite a dinner for days when time is precious. 

For cabbage, au gratin, I use what is left over, and put it in 
a buttered china dish ; then I pour over it a white sauce mixed 
Cabbage w^h the yolk of an egg. On top of it I put a thin 

au gratin. layer of fine bread or cracker-crumbs, over which 

I dust some grated cheese. A few flakes of butter distributed 
over the whole, finish the dish, which has to be put in a hot 
oven to get brown. It is served in the same dish it is baked in. 

A more delicate kind, and much more to be recommended, 
is Savoy cabbage. It is especially good prepared in the follow- 
ing way : 

Take young and firm heads, and after removing the coarser 
outside leaves, cleanse them well, and parboil them. Then 
Savoy cabbage cut them in halves, take out the woody insides, 
Wlth rice> and fill them with rice cooked in boiling water for 

five minutes. Put a good-sized piece of butter in a stew-pan, 

1 See pp. 125, 126. 



LETTER XIV 115 

and when hot put in your halves, rice uppermost, side 
by side. Put some bits of butter on top of the rice, 
and dust over the whole a little salt. Let it stew, with 
the addition of some beef broth, until quite tender, then 
serve carefully, either by itself, or around your dish of 
meat. 

To prepare a stuffed head of cabbage is more troublesome, 
but pays well. For it you may take either kind, but Savoy cab- 
bage is preferable. Take a large head. Boil it 

Stuffed cabbage. 

whole in salted water until the outside leaves get 
tender. Then pour off the water, taking care not to injure the 
head. Place it on a meat-board, and carefully unfold the leaves 
turning them backward leaf by leaf, until you get to the 
heart. Remove it as well as the hard inside part. Chop the 
tender leaves of the heart, and add to the stuffing, which you 
make of two ounces of fat pork and two ounces of beef, both 
chopped fine (any remnants of meat partly fat will do) ; one 
ounce of butter beaten to a cream ; l the yolks of two eggs ; a 
teaspoonful of minced onion ; a scant teaspoonful of salt ; the 
same of minced parsley ; one French roll soaked in milk and 
pressed dry. Mix the egg and bread, and add them to the 
butter ; add the other ingredients last, and heap up the whole 
in the centre of the cabbage head. Turn back now each leaf 
in its proper place, thus enveloping the stuffing and reshaping 
the entire head. Now take a baking-pan, heat in it a piece of 
butter the size of an egg, place the cabbage in it, and bake in 
a moderately hot oven. Baste from time to time, and add a 
little water when there is danger of scorching. It will take 
from two to three hours to get done. Serve on a round 
platter, and pour over it the gravy which will be in 
the bottom of the pan. Besides, you may serve with this 
dish a white sauce, made slightly piquant by the addition 
of a small amount of anchovy paste and lemon juice. 
The head is to be carved in sections cut, like a cake, from 
the centre towards the outer circumference. 

l See p. 183. 



116 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

The famous "Bombe a la Sardanapale" which was served 
one day to Frederick the Great, of Prussia, by his chef Sieur 
Noels, was nothing more nor less than a stuffed cabbage head, 
with slices of cooked ham and bacon underneath and on 
top of it, and a small sausage folded up in each leaf. The 
king was as great a gourmet as he was a great leader, 
and felt so delighted with this surprise prepared by his 
chef, that he wrote and dedicated to him a poem of 137 
lines. 

Red cabbage is finer and more delicate than the white kind. 

In Germany it is cooked in the way which follows, when it is 

served with partridges in their proper season. It 

Red cabbage. 

is very good, also, with roasted pork, or boiled 
ham. Cut a large head, or two small ones, into quarters, 
and after removing the hard parts, shred fine with a sharp 
knife. Put it in a stew-pan, in which a tablespoonful of lard, 
or the same amount of pork-drippings, has been heated. 
Cover it up, and let it stew over a moderate fire, shaking it and 
tossing it from time to time, for half an hour. Then add half 
a cupful of beef broth, and an hour later a wineglassful of cider- 
vinegar and twice as much claret. Add also a teaspoonful of 
salt and the same amount of granulated sugar, and continue 
stewing until quite tender. The longer you boil this dish of 
cabbage, the better it will be ; only be sure and do not add 
the vinegar and wine too long before serving, since they lose 
by cooking. If you prefer not to use wine, you will have to 
double the quantity of vinegar, and increase that of sugar also. 
The claret, however, gives this dish a special flavor, which is 
very pleasant. I can also recommend adding a Baldwin or 
Spitzenberg apple peeled, cored, and quartered half an 
hour before the cabbage is done. 

In many families the great objection to boiled cabbage 
is the odor which it is apt to send to the upper regions 
of the house. I have already mentioned that cabbage gets 
rid of some of the obnoxious gases if parboiled before cook- 
ing it. But, to fully prevent any odor penetrating further 
than the pot in which the cabbage is being cooked, place 



LETTER XIV 117 

over it a towel folded treble or quadruple. I can vouch for 
its effectiveness. 

Here I am at the end of my letter and a whole string of 
vegetables waiting for me to discourse on. You have, however, 
plenty on hand now, to secure a variety for your table until I 
continue the theme in my next. 



LETTER XV 

Dis-moi ce que tu mange, et je te dirai ce que tu es. 

BRILLAT-SAVARIN. 

I BEGIN at once with the root vegetables, which contain 
the least nourishment. Still, they come in for their share 
of usefulness also. Carrots make the best show among 
them. Next I would place salsify or oyster plant, 
which is certainly the most agreeable of all the 
roots. Carrots are generally discarded as a vegetable by 
themselves, but if treated in the proper way they are both 
palatable and wholesome as long as they are not too old. 
Scrape them clean with a sharp knife, and rinse them in water. 
If quite young cut the carrots into little wheels, but if grown 
large cut them first into thin wheels and then into narrow 
strips. Put them into boiling water, barely enough to cover 
them, and add a piece of butter as soon as they begin to boil. 
Allow the liquid to soak in gradually. They will be done in 
an hour's time, if young. Add some minced parsley and 
serve. You may cook turnips in the same way as carrots, merely 
cutting them thicker ; or stew them in mutton broth, leaving out 
the butter, and omit in any case the parsley. To press the water 
out of boiled turnips is to rob them of all the good which is 
in them. They are about the poorest vegetable as it is, and 
though for the sake of variety I allow them on my table, it is only 
when cooked in the following manner, which I learned in Italy. 
Cut them into slices, stew them in water, adding 
a little butter and salt. When tender drain off 
what liquid is left and use it for a sauce, which you make of a 
heaped teaspoonful of flour and the same of butter. Now 
grease a dish, put in a layer of the sliced turnips, dust with 
pepper and spread some of the sauce over it, then another 
US 



LETTER XV 119 

layer of turnips, and so on until they are used up. Dust some 
grated Parmesan cheese over the top, and put flakes of butter 
here and there. Bake in the oven until light brown and serve 
in the same dish. 

I have also eaten cucumbers cooked in this way, and found 
them very good. They were quartered and had the seeds 
taken out. 

Salsify is invaluable in winter, when fresh vegetables are 
scarce. It is both delicate and easily digested. One might 
call it the winter asparagus. To have it of a pure ^^ 
white, throw it into cold water made slightly acid 
by the addition of some vinegar. Add also a teaspoonful of 
flour to it. Before you do this, however, you have to scrape 
off the black outside. Cut the roots into pieces one inch long. 
Leave them in the above water for a little while before you 
throw them into the boiling water. To make Sa | si f y d /a 
"salsify a la poulette" boil your salsify in water P ulette - 
with a little salt and butter. It needs one hour to get tender. 
Then drain and put in a sauce made of chicken broth and 
white roux in the usual way. At the very last add the yellow 
of two eggs, beaten up with some cream. A slight addition of 
lemon juice is an improvement. Have the same quantity of 
small pieces of boiled chicken as you have of salsify, and add 
it also to the sauce. You can, of course, leave out the chicken 
if you want to use it for something else. Or you can make 
your sauce with cream instead of broth, and leave out the 

egg- 

You know that salsify fritters are similar to fried oysters in 
taste, hence the name of oyster plant. They are, of course, 
not nearly as wholesome as the vegetable when 
merely boiled or stewed, yet, if sauted with care, 
they are not any more risky for a sound digestion than other 
food cooked in fat. For fritters, boil the salsify until soft ; 
drain, and mash it with the addition of a lump of butter, salt 
and pepper. (To a dozen roots take a tablespoonful of butter.) 
Form into small cakes, turn them in flour, and fry them in 
butter or lard. 



120 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

The root vegetables all need to be complemented by fat 
meat. 

A highly medicinal root is celery, i.e. the soup or turnip- 
rooted celery. According to Liebig, it contains the astonishing 
amount of sixteen to twenty per cent of mineral 
matters and alkalies in one hundred parts of its 
dry substance. Its taste is a peculiarly spicy one, very agreeable 
to some persons and distasteful to others. It is certainly very 
wholesome when young, and devoid of coarse woody fibres. To 
eat celery root as a vegetable, have it well scraped and cleaned 
and thrown into the boiling liquor for soup, to which it will 
impart its flavor at the same time. When nearly tender remove 
from the soup-pot, cut into slices, and put them to stew in 
either some broth or cream (a gill to two good-sized roots). 
If cream is used a teaspoonful of butter, mixed with a little 
flour, will have to be added. Serve with the liquid around 
them. 

Parsnips, like carrots, contain a good deal of sugar. In the 

case of carrots, parsley mollifies their sweetish taste ; parsley, 

however, is out of harmony with parsnips : they 

Parsnips. * J 

need cream, and are better in taste for being 
boiled in slightly salted water which throw away until 
tender. Then, prepare a cream or plain bechamel sauce, and 
allow the parsnips, which you have cut either into wheels or 
thick strips, to be steeped in this sauce for a while before serv- 
ing. -Parsnips are best, perhaps, as a frititrel Or, take one 
A dish of parsnip, one small celery root, and half a dozen 

mixed roots. salsify roots j cut them into even dice and stew 
with a piece of veal and a few slices of salt pork or bacon, in a 
little water. Serve the veal in the middle of a dish, and the 
vegetables around it. The juice remaining in the stew-pot will 
serve to be poured over the whole. A squeeze from a sour 
orange added to it will improve this dish. 

The root containing the most sugar is the beet. There are 
several varieties, of which I prefer for a vegetable the dark red 

1 See p. 77. 



LETTER XV 121 

kind. When quite young they are very tender and delicious. 
Later in the year and in the winter the large red beets will 
make a nice salad. To preserve their color, you 
must prevent their " bleeding " by carefully keeping 
intact their skin, and not interfering with their tops and tails 
before they are cooked. Wash them very clean, put them into 
plenty of salted and boiling water, and let them boil for one to 
three hours, according to size. Test one of your roots with a 
skewer to see if tender to the core. Drain, peel, place in a 
hot dish, and pour over them some melted butter. Slice them 
if they are not very young and small. In Italy they put the 
beets in the oven after the bread has been baked, and leave 
them in until tender. They are best in this way. 

I will say a few words here about sweet potatoes. I have 
not seen them analyzed, but judge from their components of 
starch and sugar that their nutritive properties 

Sweet potatoes. 

might be slightly superior to the common or 
white potato. It is to be regretted, therefore, that they are 
heavy to digest, and, in the same measure, decrease in. value as 
food ; for only in so far as we digest food are we nourished by 
it. Boil or bake sweet potatoes as directed about white pota- 
toes. They need, however, a longer time to get done. They 
are nice cut into slices lengthwise after being boiled and 
sauted until light brown. 

Green corn and egg-plant ought both to have good nourish- 
ing properties, if we consider how they satisfy one's appetite. 
The former, after being freed of its husks and 

,...._- . .. Green corn. 

tassels, is done in fifteen to twenty minutes after 
being put into boiling water salted, and allowed to boil unin- 
terruptedly. 

For corn fritters which also taste a good deal like fried 
oysters grate the green corn off the cob, and for half a pint 
of it take the volk of one ess. a heaped table- 

i r Corn friers. 

spoonful of flour, a tablespoonful of cream, and a 
saltspoonful of salt. Mix well, and saute in lard, dropping into 
it a tablespoonful at a time. 

For canned corn take half a cupful of cream (or milk) for 



122 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

half a can. When it boils, add butter the size of half an egg, 
mixed with a teaspoonful of flour. When dissolved pour it 
over the corn, which you heat in a separate sauce-pan. Let 
the whole simmer together for a few minutes. 

In summer, when you do not care for much meat, egg-plant 
furnishes you with a nice breakfast dish. Cut it into slices 
Egg-plant, about B. quarter of an inch thick ; sprinkle each 

aauteed. s ji ce w j t h sa i t . h ea p up the slices, one above the 

other ; put a board on top, and press it down by the weight of 
a heavy flatiron. Let them remain thus for about an hour, 
when most of their bitter flavor will have oozed out. Now 
turn each slice in some flour, and saute in a little hot butter or 
drippings to a dark brown, first on one side, then on the other. 
Serve very hot. 

For baking egg-plant take either one large or two small 
ones. Pare them, cut them into thick slices, and boil in salted 
Egg-plant, water until quite soft. Then drain and mash 

them. Add half a cupful of bread-crumbs soaked 
in milk, a scant tablespoonful of butter, a teaspoonful of minced 
parsley, half as much of minced onion, a little pepper, and salt 
to taste. Beat together, and put into a buttered ^ra&Vz-dish. 
Cover the top with bread-crumbs, and bake until nice and 
brown. 

Before speaking of our great favorite the tomato I will 
hurriedly mention the summer squash, sometimes called patty- 
pan squash, on account of its shape. Although 
not much more than water, squash, for a change, 
is quite refreshing. When it is very young and tender, you 
need not pare it, nor take out the seeds. Wash your squashes, 
and quarter them ; cover them with boiling water, slightly 
salted, and boil them until they mash easily, which will be in 
about half an hour. Then put them into a sieve, and, with a 
large and flat spoon, press the water out of them. Return 
them to the stew-pan with a good-sized piece of butter, a little 
salt, and some cream, if you choose. They need a good deal 
of butter to make them palatable. 

Now for tomatoes, this always welcome and refreshing vege- 



LETTER XV 123 

table. Like the potato, it belongs to the family of night- 
shades ; but how different from that common-place relative 
it is, both in nature and in looks, drawing nurture 

. .. . Tomatoes and the 

and color from the rays of the sun, while the various ways of 

i ,1 i j j cooking them. 

meaner cousin is sticking to the clod and 
vegetating in darkness. The sunny offspring, to be sure, 
does not give us nearly the amount of actual food we get 
from the darkling ; but what other vegetable is there so cool- 
ing on hot summer days, so refreshing always, whether summer 
or winter, so much so, as to tempt us to call it a fruit rather 
than a vegetable ? 

If you pour boiling water over the tomatoes and allow them 
to stand awhile, you can easily remove their skins. Then take 
each between your hands, and press out some of the watery 
inside and as many of the hard seeds as possible. Don't rob 
them of too much of their juice; it contains highly valuable 
mineral matters and the very acid which produces their refresh- 
ing and cooling effect. Put your tomatoes prepared in the 
above way into a skillet, and allow them to cook twenty min- 
utes, no longer. Add plenty of salt, and shortly before they 
are done a good-sized piece of butter and a sprinkle of pepper. 
If you like them thickened, add some water-cracker dust or 
fine bread-crumbs. 

To bake tomatoes, cut them into halves and place them, with 
end downward, side by side on a layer of bread-crumbs in a 
buttered gratin-dish. Sprinkle with plenty of salt and a little 
white pepper. Cover up with a layer of bread-crumbs, and 
put over it as many little pieces of butter as you have halves of 
tomatoes. Bake them in a moderate oven for from half to 
three-quarters of an hour. 

Fried tomatoes are most delicious for breakfast or supper. 
I have eaten them in perfection in southern Pennsylvania and 
Delaware, where there is a wealth of rich cream. Cut the 
tomatoes into rather thick slices. Have some hot butter, or 
the best beef drippings, in a large frying-pan ; put your slices 
into it, one beside the other, and saute until brown on both 
sides. Then pour over them plenty of rich cream to make a 



124 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

gravy. When bubbling up, remove the tomato slices carefully 
with a skimmer into a hot platter. Do not heap them up, but 
place them side by side. Now take the yolks of two or three 
eggs, beaten up in a little cream, which you have gotten ready 
beforehand, and stir into the cream gravy after it has been 
removed from the stove. After stirring it well, replace it on 
the stove for a few minutes to get hot, without boiling, stirring 
all the time. At last pour it over the tomatoes, and serve. 

It was Grimod de la Reyniere who invented stuffed toma- 
toes. I give you his own famous recipe : Make an opening at 
the stem end of the tomatoes, press the latter, so as to relieve 
them as much as possible of their seeds without injury to their 
shape. Fill into the cavity thus obtained a stuffing of either 
sausage meat or chopped meat of any kind, or of different 
meats. Mix with this stuffing a soup^on of garlic (or rather 
rub the dish in which you mix the stuffing with the inside of a 
clove of garlic), some minced parsley, shallot, and tarragon. 
Put the tomatoes side by side into a buttered gratin-&\s\\, which 
they must fill out. Dust bread-crumbs over the top to cover 
the whole ; place bits of butter on it, one for each tomato. 
Bake in a hot oven for about half an hour. The top ought to 
be of a light brown. 

Stewed tomatoes left over can be served again in many ways. 
They may be added to rice, or macaroni, or eaten with eggs, 
or added to a soup or a hash. They are always in place, with 
whatever meat or cereals you serve them ; and they are pre- 
eminently suited to go with eggs in any shape. 

To make my list of vegetables complete I must not omit 

onions. If you like them, you will do well to have them now 

and then with roast poultry. Boil them in two 

waters, salted. Throw away the first water after 

they have boiled about five minutes, and renew it. They will 

be milder in taste this way. Boil them for an hour or more, 

until they are perfectly tender. Drain them. Boil some cream, 

to which add a piece of butter, salt, and pepper, and pour over 

the onions for a dressing. Steep them in it for a little while. 

Then serve. Or, make a puree of them, by chopping them fine 



LETTER XV 125 

after they are boiled and tender, which moisten with the same 
dressing, adding to it a little thickening of flour. 

For a garnish of roast duck or beefsteak, do as follows : 
Take a dozen small onions, all of one size. Be careful in peel- 
ing not to cut them too close at the root end, or they may fall 
to pieces in cooking. Boil them in the above manner for half 
an hour, then drain, and put them in a sauce-pan with butter 
the size of a walnut, a scant teaspoonful of sugar, two or three 
tablespoonfuls of good broth, and a little salt. Keep them over 
a lively fire for about ten minutes, shaking the sauce-pan fre- 
quently to prevent scorching. Then remove them to a mod- 
erate fire, and let them stew until they become brown and 
glazed over. They must be perfectly tender. 

I would be at the end of enumerating the different vegetables 
for table use were it not for my classifying chestnuts with them 
rather than with fruit. In our country we have chestnuts and 
not yet made such use of them in connection with howto usethem - 
meat or other vegetables as is done in Europe. One reason 
for it, no doubt, is the high price paid for the large imported 
chestnuts, and the tediousness of peeling for cooking purposes 
the puny little ones growing wild on this continent. The chest- 
nut, on account of its mealiness (starch) and sweetness (sugar), 
is very much like the sweet potato in its compounds. Its 
flavor, however, is far superior, and its fibre much more deli- 
cate. In the south of Europe, where chestnuts grow large and 
abundantly, they are part of the daily food of the common 
people. On the Isle of Corsica the latter make them serve as 
bread, and speak of the bread tree when they mean the chest- 
nut tree. 

Chestnuts assort especially well with cabbage, Brussels sprouts, 
and other greens. They need fat to make them easier of diges- 
tion. For a garnish do as follows : Peel the chestnuts, throw 
them into boiling water, cover them up and allow to stand for 
five minutes. Then remove the inner skin by rubbing it off 
with a clean towel, and throw the peeled chestnuts into cold 
water. Drain and rub dry with another towel ; then put them 
into a sauce-pan side by side with a little salt, a good sprinkle 



126 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

of granulated sugar, a small piece of butter, and broth half an 
inch deep. Cover them up well, shake them from time to 
time, and cook over a moderate fire until they are light brown 
and tender. 

They make a very nice puree by preparing them as above, 
and cooking them until quite tender in broth sufficient to cover 
them (veal or chicken broth is best). Then mash them well, 
adding some boiling hot cream, a good-sized piece of butter, 
and a little salt. This puree is particularly good with duck, 
mutton, and meat croquettes. 

Before closing I will repeat what I indicated in the begin- 
ning when speaking of vegetables : that two or more of 
different kinds will make with ingenuity and judgment, 
a most appetizing-looking mixed vegetable dish, 1 or what 
is called a macedoine. It will give you some extra trouble, 
to be sure, and also cause a certain expense. But once in a 
while, for some desired guests, you would take this upon your- 
self willingly, and the effect produced will repay you. At the 
time of spring and early summer, when vegetables are freshest 
and in plenty, a macedoine is in its proper place : Take only 
A macedoine the best and freshest you can get : carrots, turnips, 
of vegetables. green peas, asparagus, string-beans or any other 
vegetables which will match. Cut the roots into fancy shapes, 
the beans into lozenges, the asparagus into one-and-a-half- 
inch pieces. Cook each by itself in salted water until just 
done. Drain them ; put a good-sized piece of butter into a 
stewing-pan ; when melted, put in your vegetables and stir 
them gently over a not too lively fire. There must not be any 
more butter than sufficient to encase with it the vegetables. 
When they are thoroughly heated, moisten them with some 
thick bechamel sauce and serve them heaped up, pyramid- 
shaped, on a hot dish. 

This is Dumas' recipe, on which you may improve by stew- 
ing each vegetable, after parboiling it, in butter and a little 
water, except asparagus and cauliflower, which you boil in 

i See also filet of beef, p. 47. 



LETTER XV 127 

some broth. Then you might either mix your vegetables in 
the above way, or what would look nicer arrange them 
wreath-like, each vegetable by itself, as demonstrated before ; 
or in different sections around some kind of meat, or a head 
of cauliflower. By adding stewed mushrooms, shrimps, or lob- 
ster claws, you will raise it to a first-class dish. 

If from the abundance of vegetables at your command you 
make wise selections, and have a variety for your daily fare 
accompanied by well-assorted meat, you will not run the 
danger of being reproached one day by a squib like that of the 
boy averse to turnips : 

Turnips, turnips day by day, 
Drove me surely off and away. 
If for dinner mother had 
Meat, good meat, at home I'd staid. 



LETTER XVI 

So many fishes of so many features. 



Du BARTAS. 



YOU have reminded me in good time that I have not said 
anything as yet about fish. It is not equivalent to beef, 
and hardly as nourishing as the lower grades of meat ; still, it 
contains nutritives enough to warrant using it in place of meat. 
It also produces a pleasant change in one's diet, 

Food value of fish. .... f 

and is enticing to the appetite, often much more 
so than meat is. Then, it offers a variety incomparable to the 
latter. The Neapolitans, who eat everything living or breathing 
within the briny deep, call \\.frutti di mare (fruit of the sea), a 
fit figure of speech, it seems to me, for shell-fish of any sort. 
In thinking about the abounding food offered by sea and river 
salt and sweet water and the succulent meals to be de- 
rived therefrom, one might rather wish for the strict Lenten fare 
of former times. We owe many a first-rate recipe to those days. 
To make it clear to you what nutrients you have in different 
kinds of fish, I again give you a table : 

ALBUMINOIDS. FATS. WATER. MINERAL MATTERS. 

Pike 18.5 0.5 80.0 1.0 

Salmon 16.0 6.5 76.5 i.o 

Codfish 17.0 0.4 81.0 1.6 

Eel 13.0 28.5 57.3 1.0 

Green herring 17.8 10.3 70.0 1.9 

Pickled herring 19.0 18.0 46.4 16.5 

Smoked salmon 24.2 12.3 51.5 12.0 

Sardines, salted 23.0 3.0 54.0 20.0 

Salted codfish 30.0 0.4 49.6 20.0 

Dried codfish, not salted. . 80.0 i.o 17.5 1.5 

Smoked herring 21.0 8.5 69.3 1.5 

You will notice that fresh fish contains a larger percentage 
of water than does meat, while cured fish makes a strikingly 
128 



LETTER XVI 129 

good show of albuminoids and mineral matters. The latter, 
however, are largely owing to the salt used in preserving them. 
The highest percentage of nutrients is found in dried codfish, 
and both it and herring furnish the greatest amount of nour- 
ishment for the least amount of money. They have, however, 
to be accompanied by an adequate percentage of carbohy- 
drates to satisfy the demands of the human system. Thus the 
poorer classes of Europe instinctively eat their salted herring 
with potatoes ; while in this country we have the codfish-balls, 
consisting of part potatoes. 

You will also notice the large percentage of fats which is 
found in some fish, especially eel. Fish of that sort is harder 
to digest, and on that account not rated as high for nourishing 
a tender stomach as fish less fat (for instance, pike), even if 
their nitrogenous substance should be of a lower grade. 

Fish is either boiled, broiled, baked, or fried. In all cases 
it is to be treated on the same principle as meat. When put 
to boil in cold water, fish, like meat, will part with 

. ' . .11 How to cook fish. 

its best substances, which will go to enrich the 
water it is cooked in. To make a soup of it or a fish-jelly 
(which is very delicate), this would be the right way; but to 
boil fish which is to be eaten, it is necessary to put it into boil- 
ing water. To know the right moment when a fish is done, is 
not such an easy affair as you might think. It depends not 
merely on the size of the fish, but also on its kind, on the 
nature of the water it has lived in, on the time passed since it 
was killed, and on the water in which it is boiled. An under- 
done fish is disgusting, while an over-done one is tasteless and 
mostly tough. After fifteen minutes from the time a fish has 
been put on the fire, one has to be on the watch. If the fish 
is small or thin, it most likely will not stand a second's longer 
cooking. If large, it may need half an hour to be well done, 
or even more. Experience and a certain fine instinct have to 
guide you. One sign and a pretty safe one is to try a fin. 
If it gives way easily to a slight pull, the fish is done. Fish, 
like meat which is to be dished up, has to be kept simmering 
rather than boiling after its first immersion in lively boiling 



130 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

water. After it is cleaned, it must not be kept soaking in 
cold water. Some salt-water fishes are better for sprinkling 
them with salt inside and outside for about one hour before 
cooking them. The salt, of course, has to be washed off again. 
Be sure that your fish is always as fresh as possible. It decom- 
poses quickly, and then is very harmful. Never buy a fish 
whose eyes are dull-looking, or the gills of which are not of a 
fine red color. It is best, of course, when put on the fire as 
soon as caught and killed ; but this luxury is within the reach 
of but a minority of people. 

To boil fish, well-salted water with the addition of a cupful 
of vinegar is generally the right medium. In some cases, how- 
ever, the addition of a bouquet of herbs, an onion, and a little 
spice is preferable. A good recipe for this "cradle " of boiled 
fish, as Grimod de la Reyniere calls it, is the following : 

Court-Bouillon to boil Fish in. For three pints of water 
take one-half pint of cider vinegar, one large carrot, two onions, 
two cloves, one teaspoonful of pepper seeds, two bay leaves, and 
enough salt to make it strongly taste of it (about three table- 
spoonfuls). When it boils put in your fish. 

Keep this in mind, and all I have said before, and you will 
be able to boil pretty nearly all kinds of fish without trouble. 
Fish is nice enough boiled whole, well garnished, and served 
with potatoes and a good sauce ; but it is pleasant to vary the 
method, for the sake of which I proceed to give you some 
special recipes which will enable you to diversify the process by 
applying the given methods to other kinds of fish, or to alter 
them according to your needs and likings. A few of them 
will be convenient for breakfast. I take for granted, of course, 
that you get your fish of the fish dealer, well prepared and 
cleaned. 

Striped Bass, stuffed and baked. Make a stuffing of one 
stale breakfast roll, one tablespoonful of butter, the roes of the 
fish (or if it has none, of a carp or some other sweet-water 
fish), two eggs, a teaspoonful of minced parsley, and a salt- 
spoonful of salt. Soak the roll in milk, and press it until dry 
in a napkin ; melt the butter, and pour it over the bread. Mix 



LETTER XVI 131 

well ; then add the eggs, stir until light, after which you add 
the roes chopped beforehand, the parsley, and salt. Try a 
little of this stuffing by putting it into boiling water for five 
minutes. If too soft, add some bread-crumbs, if too stiff, a 
little cream. Fill it into the fish, and sew it up. Now put 
a tablespoonful of butter into a dripping-pan, slice one onion, 
one carrot, one celery root, and add to it some bunches of 
parsley ; arrange so as to make a bed of them for the fish to 
lie on, and cover the latter up with a sheet of paper buttered 
on both sides. Bake for one hour in a slow oven, adding a 
little water from time to time, and baste the fish frequently. 
When done, lift it on a hot platter, carefully remove the stitches, 
and garnish with parsley, pieces of lemon, and anything else 
your taste dictates. Serve it with a sauce ; we 
will say a Hollandaise. To make it, put the yolks Hoiiandaise 
of two eggs into a skillet, which you place in a 
vessel with boiling water. Add a cupful of the liquid left in 
the fish-pan, after it has been strained and the fat taken off. 
Stir all the while with a wire whisk. Cut a tablespoonful of 
butter into little pieces, and add them one by one ; salt to 
taste ; put in a sprinkle of nutmeg, and the juice of half a 
lemon, if liked. Stir until thick ; do not let it curdle, and serve 
as soon as done. 

In the same way you can bake red-snapper, carp, shad, and 
lake-pike. 

The best lake-pike I have ever eaten was in Switzerland, 
near the lake of Geneva. I asked for the recipe, and here 
it is : 

Stewed Pike. Take a good-sized fish ; put it whole into a 
fish-kettle with about a quart of good rich broth, two onions, 
each stuck with one clove, a bunch of parsley, and four or five 
thick slices of bread as large as the palm of your hand. Cover 
it up well. When half done that is, in about a quarter of 
an hour from the time it began to boil add a pint and a half 
of some good white wine (cold). When entirely done, place 
the fish carefully on a hot platter, remove onions and parsley 
from the liquor in which the fish was boiling, and add to it the 



132 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

yolks of about three eggs beaten light in a little cream (or 
milk). Do not let it curdle, and do not break up the bread 
any more than you can help. Put the latter around the fish 
by means of a cake-lifter, and pour as much of the sauce over 
it as the dish will hold. The rest you serve in a boat. I have 
cooked shad this way, and also found it delicious. 

By boiling pike simply in salted water, you can have a very 
pretty dish, if you put the tail of the fish into its mouth, thus 
shaping it into a ring. You have to do this when 
raw, before putting the fish into boiling water. In 
this case you need, of course, a round pot in which to boil your 
fish. When done, serve it on a round platter, and fill the space 
inside the ringed fish with small round potatoes cooked in salted 
water. Pour over them some melted butter, in which a table- 
spoonful of minced parsley has been cooked for one or two 
seconds. 

Boil codfish or haddock in salted water, with the addition 
only of a little vinegar. Of cod the tail-piece is the favorite 
part. It is nicest served whole, with oyster sauce. 
haddock; how to For stewed codfish, cut a small cod into three or 
stew ' four equal-sized pieces, wash them in salt water, 
and put them into a kettle with no more water than will cling 
to them. Add a blade of mace, a wineglassful of white cook- 
ing-wine, and two tablespoonfuls of butter divided in halves, 
one of them having a scant tablespoonful of flour rubbed into 
it. Add salt to taste, and at the very last a little white pepper 
(powdered). Let it cook slowly and well-covered for fifteen 
to twenty minutes, and serve the fish and sauce in the same 
dish. 

For a sauce to accompany either pike, cod, or haddock, I 
would recommend a mustard sauce. It is made simply by 

mixing and stirring over the fire two tablespoon- 
Mustard sauce. r i r i i i r i r T- i 

fuls of butter and one tablespoonful of French 
mustard, until just before the point of boiling. 

For boiled salmon take a middle piece, because there is 
little waste. Two pounds will be sufficient for eight persons. 
Take a heaped tablespoonful of butter, work one heaped tea- 



LETTER XVI 133 

spoonful of flour into it, and place it in the hollow side of the 
fish. Tie a napkin around it with twine, and boil it covered 
up with court-bouillon, to which add some wine, 

... i j i 11 / c i Boiled salmon 

if you wish to indulge in such luxury (for, accord- with parsley 
ing to Grimod, salmon which he called the s 
prince of the sea is somewhat addicted to the use of spirits, 
and only cares for the best) . Your salmon needs about twenty- 
five minutes' gentle boiling. Take it out of the napkin, place 
it in the middle of a platter, and garnish with the finest sprigs 
of curled parsley you can get, to which you may add some 
pieces of lemon, little potato balls, lobster claws, or anything 
harmonizing in taste and color. Serve it with a 

Parsley Sauce. Take the yolks of two eggs, half a table- 
spoonful of flour, two tablespoonfuls of rninced parsley, and one 
heaped tablespoonful of butter. Melt the butter, put in the 
rest and stir, with a little water, until quite smooth ; then add 
gradually, stirring all the while, three-quarters of a pint of the 
boiling-hot liquor in which the fish has been cooked. Allow 
to boil up just once, and serve in a boat. 

Another most delicious sauce for salmon is the following, the 
recipe of which I owe to the wife of the landlord at Bad Gries- 
bach, in the Black Forest,. Germany. She called Sauce G noise 
it sauce Genoise. Chop the lower tail-end of a for salmon - 
salmon into several pieces, and saufe it in a little butter, with 
the addition of one small onion, half a carrot (both sliced), a 
little bunch of parsley, half a bay leaf, two pepper seeds, one 
clove, and a mite of garlic. Take it off the fire before it gets 
brown ; pour off the butter, add one pint of good red wine, one 
salted sardine, and let it boil continuously for a quarter of an 
hour. Then pass the whole through a wire sieve, stir into it a 
piece of butter the size of half an egg, and serve. If a salted 
sardine cannot be had, a little anchovy paste added at the last 
will do instead. 

If any cooked salmon is left over, use it next day in this 
way : Divide it into nicely trimmed pieces, saute A | unc hcon dish 
them quickly on both sides in a little hot butter, of salmon - 
then serve them with a cold 



134 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

Sauce Remoulade. Take the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs ; 
when cold, press them flat with a spoon, and stir them with a 
teaspoonful of vinegar until smooth. Add little by little one 
tablespoonful of olive oil and two tablespoonfuls of French 
mustard, then one teaspoonful of minced onion, two teaspoon- 
fuls of minced parsley, a pinch of white pepper, salt to taste, 
and, if not sufficiently sour, the juice of a lemon. This sauce 
will keep for days. 

Filet of Flounder a la Joinville is an extremely nice dish. 
Take two flounders, skin them, and cut the flesh off the bones 
with a sharp-pointed knife. Divide it into eight filets, which 
you roll up into eight little turbans. Fasten each with a wooden 
toothpick, to be removed before serving. Stew them slowly in 
one tablespoonful of butter, to which add a wineglassful of 
cider champagne, one small onion, a little lemon juice, three 
pepper seeds, and a pinch of salt. When done (in about fif- 
teen minutes) take out your filets carefully with a skimmer and 
arrange them on a hot dish. Place a button mushroom, heated 
in its own liquor, on top of each turban. Now throw a ball of 
butter and flour the size of half an egg into the boiling liquid, 
and when dissolved strain this sauce. Pour some of it around 
the filets and serve the rest in a boat. A very nice addition is 
to have some oysters cooked in their own juice with which to 
trim the filets. You may also color your sauce with a table- 
spoonful of melted crayfish or lobster butter. 1 

Fried fish is very good turned in salted flour, or salted egg 

and bread-crumbs, and then put into boiling hot fat to get 

brown. But most fish are really too fat to be 

To broil fish. - . . . f , , ., i 

treated in this way ; they are much better broiled, 
as, for instance, shad, if not too large, mackerel, and eel. 
In broiling you follow the same rule I gave you for broiling 

meat, merely seeing that the fire is rather slow 

Broiled mackerel. , _ , . . ... . . 

and keeping the fish roasting on it until thoroughly 
done. Mackerel is best in the spring. The Spanish mackerel, 
coming up from the Southern States, is the most delicious, 

1 See p. 146. 



LETTER XVI 135 

but also the most expensive. Even the common kind is very 
acceptable when broiled. Wipe it dry with a towel after 
washing it. Rub the inside with some salt and pepper ; brush 
the fish on both sides with some olive oil (or melted butter) ; 
wrap it in a piece of white paper which is well oiled or but- 
tered, and put it on the gridiron. It will take from twenty 
to twenty-five minutes to get done. Then remove the paper, 
put the fish on a hot dish, and serve it with maitre d'hdtel 
butter 1 spread over the top. 

To broil bloaters, soak them in half milk, half water, for an 
hour ; then pull off the skin. Wrap them in buttered paper 
and broil on a slow fire for five minutes on each 

. , , . . , . , , i n Broiled bloaters. 

side ; or divide them down the middle, remove 
the bones, put them on a flat dish, and pour on them some 
olive oil. At the time for serving put them on the gridiron and 
keep them on the fire for one or two minutes on each side. 

A halibut steak turned in salted Indian meal, Fish steak 
and sauteed in hot lard, is a nice dish, espe- saut ^ ed - 
cially when served with oyster sauce. 

As it is a matter of importance to an economical house- 
keeper to know what to do with remnants of fish, HOW to use 
I mention the following ways in which to use mnantsoffish. 
fish left over : 

No. i. Butter a dish ; put into it in alternate layers thinly 
sliced boiled potatoes and fish picked into small pieces. 
Spread over each layer some plain bechamel sauce. Dust 
bread-crumbs over the top, and put in the oven to get brown 
for ten or fifteen minutes. Serve in the same dish. 

No. 2. Remove carefully skin and bone of boiled fish; 
cut it into nice little pieces and pile it up pyramid-shape on a 
flat dish. Now pour over it a bechamel sauce, made with cream 
or milk, to which a saltspoonful of anchovy paste has been 
added. Dust over the whole some grated Parmesan cheese, 
and sprinkle with melted butter. Put in a quick oven for a few 
minutes, or until of a nice brown color. 

i See p. 74. 



136 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

No. 3. Put mashed potatoes rim-like in a dish ; place some 
nice large pieces of boiled fish in the middle ; drop flakes 
of butter between the pieces here and there ; pour over it some 
thick cream, and dust it over with two-thirds bread-crumbs 
and one-third grated cheese. Put it into the oven to get 
heated and take color. 

No. 4. To a cupful of shredded fish take a cupful of 
mashed potatoes. Put both into a wooden bowl, and work 
them to a paste with a potato masher, adding to it successively 
one egg, a tablespoonful of butter, and a cupful of milk. Add 
salt to taste, and continue working the whole until quite light. 
Fill it into a buttered gratin-d\$h and bake in a quick oven 
until light brown. Serve it either with a green salad, French 
dressing, or with a sauce of your choosing. 

No. 5. After your cooked fish is freed of all bones and 
skin, cut it into small dice, and put these into shells. Make a 
white roux, thin it with broth and a little white wine (which 
may be replaced by lemon or orange juice) ; add salt, a sprinkle 
of white pepper, a little minced parsley, and a few mushrooms 
also minced. Cover up the fish with this sauce, put on top of 
each shell a flake of butter, and put in the oven for five minutes. 

There are some excellent French ways of stewing fish which 

we might appropriate to our use. Famous among them is the 

Bouille-abaisse of Southern France, which inspired 

Bouille-abaisse. . . x 

1 hackeray to write his ballad of that name. But 
this dish, after all, seems to have been more a convivial memory 
than a real enthusiasm, or he would have done better in describ- 

" A sort of soup, or broth, or brew, 
Or hotchpotch of all sorts of fishes, 
That Greenwich never could outdo." 

It sounds much more appetizing when we read of it in Me"ry's 
long poem, given by Monselet, which begins : 

" Pour le vendredi maigre, un jour, certaine abbesse 
D'un couvent marseillais crea la bouille-abaisse, 
Et jamais ce bienfait n'a trouve des ingrats 
Chez les peuples marins, qui n'aiment point le gras. 
Ce plat est un poeme." 



LETTER XVI 137 

[For a Friday's fast one day the abbess gocd 
Of a convent in Marseilles created bouille-abaisse, 
And the boon she conferred is remembered with praise 
By the men of the sea, who are partial to fish. 
The dish is a poem. ] 

Then he goes on and describes in the most enticing man- 
ner how, at first, a wonderful coulis is made of numerous little 
fish and spice, and how, in this carefully prepared liquor, 
about half a dozen different kinds of fish are cooked and 
then served. The vulgarized recipes for bouille-abaisse are 
nothing compared to it, and, on the whole, since we do not 
live on the borders of the Mediterranean, we had better leave 
this dish alone, and turn to the simpler and less expensive 
matelote, for which I will give you two different recipes to 
choose from. 

Bliiefish en Matelote. Cut the fish into pieces, put it into 
a stew-pan, add a bay leaf, six pepper seeds, a sprinkle of salt, 
one clove, and pour over it sufficient cheap claret to cover the 
fish. Let it come to a boil as quickly as possible. Meanwhile 
take a dozen small onions and saute them in butter until turned 
light brown. Take also a dozen small button mushrooms, a 
saltspoonful of salt, a sprinkle of pepper, a teaspoonful of 
lemon juice and the juice of the mushrooms; add all this to 
the onions, and allow the whole to stew until about three- 
quarters done. Now, when the fish has come to a boil, skim 
it, and add to the liquor about a tablespoonful of butter, and 
as much of flour, both kneaded into a ball. This makes the 
sauce, which must neither be too thin, nor too thick, but have 
the right consistency. After the butter and flour have dis- 
solved, you add the onions, the mushrooms, and their liquor to 
the sauce, and allow the whole to simmer until the pieces of 
fish are quite done. You may add some shrimps at the last. 
Serve the pieces of fish wreath-wise on a round dish, and pour 
the sauce over it and into the centre. You may cook other 
kinds of fish in the same way. Or make a matelote of several 
kinds of fish. Take one fat, and the other lean, as for instance 
pike and whitefish, or salmon-trout and shad. 



138 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 



Matelote of Perch. Melt some butter in a stew-pan, and 
add some minced parsley and onion, and then your fish. Pour 
over it a pint of cider champagne, and when nearly done add 
a dozen or more oysters, a dozen clams, and some shrimps if 
you choose ; then let the whole simmer until done. This is 
a French recipe (called matelote normande), as is also the 
foregoing one. 

I end this letter with a recipe for fish in jelly, which is well 

worth the trouble of trying. I have found it useful many 

a time, when I wanted a pretty dish other than 

Fish in jelly. L J 

meat on my tea or luncheon table. You can 
make this dish also of remnants of boiled fish, if they are 
left in good shape. Cut your fish into thick slices and boil 
them with several onions, pepper seeds, a bay leaf, salt, and 
some vinegar. When done and cool, arrange the pieces in a 
mould, placing in the bottom of the latter first of all some thin 
slices of lemon. Allow the liquor in which the fish was boiled 
to continue cooking, with head and tail of the fish added. 
After an hour's lively boiling strain it, add a cupful of good 
broth in which you have dissolved a heaped saltspoonful of 
Liebig, and the juice of half a lemon. Taste it if salt is needed. 
Place a tablespoonful of it on ice to see if it will jelly. If not, 
add some gelatine to stiffen it. Clear it, 1 and pour over the 
fish in your mould. If you should be able to procure some 
branches of fresh tarragon, you will produce a very pretty effect 
by arranging them inside your mould, but outside of the fish, 
in the form of a light wreath. This you do before you fill up 
the mould with your jelly. The tarragon in addition will add 
its flavor to the dish. 

Of all the wealth of the fish-market, and the abundance of 
good recipes, I have shown you but a glimpse. You will learn 
by experience, and, to guide you on the road to it, I believe 
I have told you what is needful. 

1 See p. 80. 



LETTER XVII 

A dish that I do love to feed upon. 

SHAKESPEARE. 

I WOULD rather commence at once to tell you of shell-fish 
a delightful subject if my conscience would let me. For 
I have not given you any instruction as yet about the prosaic, 
but very useful, cured cod. To prepare it for use, Cured cod 
put it in cold water (skin upward, to allow the and HOW to 
salt to leave the fish), which change a few times, 
and soak for from twelve to twenty-four hours, according to 
the thickness of the fish. To cook it, put it in plenty of cold 
water (no salt), and place it on the stove, where it will get hot 
very slowly. It must not boil, or it will be tough. When quite 
hot, move the pot with the fish to a place still further removed 
from the fire, and let it steep there for half an hour longer. If 
the piece is from a fine large cod, it is to be served whole with 
a sauce Hollandaise. 1 At a New England coast town I have 
eaten it thus cooked, when it was exceedingly nice. It was 
served with two sauces, one of drawn butter, and the other 
consisting of the pure fat rendered from salt pork, cut in small 
dice, and the cracklings left in. Besides, there were the 
mealiest of potatoes (cooked in salted water), sliced beets in 
vinegar, and hard-boiled eggs. It was a perfect meal. 

In a Capuchin monastery in southern Germany, dried codfish, 
after being freshened and cooked, is served with onions cut fine 
and fried in butter until yellow, and with a puree of dried peas. 

You may also shred salt codfish, after being cooked, into 
small pieces, and treat it like recipe No. 4 for using up rem- 
nants of fish. 2 

i See p. 131. 2 See p. 136. 

139 



140 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

For Codfish Balls, chop even quantities of cooked fish and 
potatoes. Cut fat salt pork into dice, and render until partly 
melted ; then chop fine what is left of them and mix with the 
fish and potatoes. Form into balls and fry in the fat rendered 
from the pork scraps. This recipe will also make a nice hash. 
I owe it likewise to a good New England housewife. 

What has been said in praise of codfish as a nutrient cannot 
be said in favor of oysters ; and yet who would be willing to do 
without this "fruit of the sea"? Their large percentage of 
water (from 80 to 85 per cent) is the reason why oysters rank 
low in this respect. Still they make a show of about equal 
percentages of albuminoids and carbohydrates a little more 
perhaps of the former than the latter and a very fair show as 
to fat and mineral matter in proportion to them. If eaten in 
quantities they do very well for nutriment. They are easily 
digested if eaten raw, but less so when cooked. Oysters, there- 
fore, ought never to be more than just made hot ; the longer 
they stay on the fire the more the albumen they contain will 
harden, and be apt to interfere with a comfortable digestion. 

Oysters may be cooked in so many different styles, and are 
so easily gotten ready, that they are most convenient, and at 
the same time always welcome, for helping out 
when an unexpected guest comes to share a meal 
with us, or when provisions happen to run short for 
our daily fare. They are so delicious in taste and 
flavor that I would prefer to have them cooked mostly in their 
own liquor ; and if spice is to be used, to take a blade of mace 
only, since it seems to harmonize better with the aroma of the 
oyster than other kinds of spice. The addition of a little lemon 
juice, however, is to be recommended, since a slight acid helps 
to digest the albumen. 

The one way in which the flavor of the oyster when exposed 
to heat is preserved almost intact, is to roast them. To do 
this, get them on the half-shell with whatever juice they have, 
and place them side by side on a gridiron over a bright fire. 
Leave them on it just long enough to get hot and plump ; then 
serve on their shells. The next best way is to pan them. 



LETTER XVII 141 

Take the oysters with the juice that will adhere to them and 
put them in a shallow pan, in which a piece of butter has been 
melted. Put them in a moderately hot oven, and leave them in 
it until the beards begin to curl ; then serve. Always taste the 
oysters to see whether salt is needed. For broiled or panned 
oysters, a slight dusting over with white pepper might be liked. 

For tea or supper a dish of scalloped oysters is very nice. 
Drain your oysters, and see that no fragments of shell are left 
clinging to them. Take a gratin-dish. ; butter it ; put in a thin 
layer of rather coarse bread-crumbs, then a layer of the oys- 
ters with some bits of butter, some more bread-crumbs, and 
so on, until the oysters are all used up. Put a thick layer of 
crumbs on the top and sprinkle with melted butter. If the 
oysters appear rather dry, add some of their juice before put- 
ting on the top layer of crumbs. Some substitute a small 
wineglassful of sherry for the oyster liquor ; but this is a matter 
of taste. Bake the oysters in a moderately hot oven for about 
one hour. 

To make a plain oyster stew, boil and skim the oyster liquor 
first. Add a thickening of flour and butter rubbed together, 
or one of cracker-dust, adding the butter afterwards. Some 
like milk added to the juice of the oysters, and some do not. 
By adding milk you increase, of course, the nourishing proper- 
ties of the oyster stew. After the liquid is ready, put in 
your oysters, and let them get hot. If you intend to have a 
more perfect oyster stew, proceed in this way : Cut the 
beards off two dozen oysters. Sprinkle some lemon juice over 
the latter. Put the juice of the oysters and the beards on to 
boil, and skim well ; then add a blade of mace, a few pepper 
seeds and the peel of half a lemon shaved off; let it boil slowly 
for half an hour from the time it was put on the fire ; then 
strain the liquid and when boiling again put in a scant table- 
spoonful of butter, into which as much flour has been rubbed. 
Add also half a pint of cream (or milk) made hot beforehand. 
When the butter and flour is dissolved and the sauce quite 
smooth, put in your oysters. Allow them to get hot, but do 
not let them boil, and serve at once. 



142 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

If you wish to fry oysters, take large ones, drain them, turn 
them first in some flour, then in an egg beaten up, and lastly 
in some bread or cracker crumbs. Throw them into some boil- 
ing hot lard and leave in only long enough to turn light brown. 

For broiling oysters also take large ones ; turn them in bread- 
crumbs, and put them on a well-greased, double wire gridiron. 
Have a bright coal fire, and broil them for one or two minutes, 
first on one side, then on the other. Have a hot dish, with a 
piece of butter melting on it, to receive them, and serve at once. 

For an oyster fricassee proceed as for the oyster stew second 
in number, with this difference, that you. add the yolks of two 
or three eggs, beaten up beforehand, to the liquid, and stir it 
over the fire until it thickens. Add also a little lemon juice. 
Do not let it boil, or it will curdle. This recipe you may use 
likewise for oysters on scallop-shells. Strew bread-crumbs over 
the oysters and sauce with which you have filled your shells, 
and place them in the oven to brown on top. Or fill with 
them some puff-paste patties, which are exceedingly nice. 
You may serve an oyster stew on pieces of toast, which makes 
a nice breakfast dish. If you have some 'oyster liquor left, 
thicken it with flour and butter rubbed together, add milk or 
cream, and pour it over some hot toast for breakfast or lunch- 
eon. If you wish to keep the oyster liquor until the following 
day, be sure and scald it, or it will not keep. You may also 
add it to a soup made of broth. If cooked oysters are left 
over, they give a pleasant flavor to a hash made of meat, if 
chopped fine with it. 

For oyster sauce, make a bechamel with the juice of the 
oysters and add some cream. Season with a little 

Oyster sauce. , , . -111 

mace and white pepper, and when done put in 
some oysters, taking care that they do not harden. 

Clams have the advantage of being fit to eat when oysters 
are not. They afford a good broth, especially for invalids ; 

but clams themselves are hard to digest, unless 

Clams. 

they are boiled just two or three minutes, and 
then even the soft part only is fit to eat. A clam chowder 
is delicious when made as I once ate it in New England. 



LETTER XVII 143 

Clam Chowder. Take a quarter of a pound of fat salt 
pork, cut it into small dice, and put it on the fire until brown 
and crisp. Chop a small onion, and throw into the pork fat 
to turn yellow. Have ready a soup-plateful of raw potatoes 
very thinly sliced. Put them into a deep stew-pan, strain over 
them the fat from the pork, and add the liquor from a quart of 
clams. Boil slowly until the potatoes are quite done. Mean- 
while take your clams and boil them for three minutes and no 
longer in one pint of water, adding one teaspoonful of salt. 
Drain them; but keep the water. Cut off the hard part of 
the clams and chop, then put them back into the strained 
water, and let boil for at least a quarter of an hour longer ; 
then drain them again, adding the water to the potatoes and 
clam liquor, and throwing away the hard part of the clams. 
Take their soft parts, and chop them also, but coarsely. Add 
a gill of boiling milk (or cream) to the potatoes, half a 
dozen water crackers, and lastly the chopped clams (soft 
parts). Season with pepper if you like, and a little powdered 
thyme. 

A lobster furnishes you with a very ornamental and palatable 
dish. To boil a lobster, have a large kettle three-quarters full 
of boiling water ; add four onions halved, a large Ho w to boii a 
bouquet of parsley, twenty pepper seeds, two bay lobster> 
leaves, salt at the rate of one heaped tablespoonful to every 
quart of water. Put in your lobster. Do it quickly, head 
foremost, which will kill it and end its torture at once. Let 
it boil for fifteen to twenty-five minutes, according to its size. 
When done, take it out, twist off the claws and tail, cleave 
into halves (lengthwise) body and tail, and remove from the 
latter the dark, stringy vein called " lady-fingers," which is 
poisonous. Crack the claws on their lower sides and be care- 
ful not to disfigure them. Thus prepared, you may serve the 
lobster hot or cold, scalloped, as salad, croquettes, or in 
various other ways. If you wish to serve the lobster whole, 
you reconstruct it from its separate pieces, masking the flaws 
with sprigs of parsley. Serve it on a folded napkin in the 
middle of an oval platter ; garnish with parsley laid wreath- 



144 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

like around, and have either a tartar sauce or a mayonnaise 
accompany it. 1 

I will now give you some specified recipes for dishes made 
of lobster. 

Lobster Cutlets. Take the meat of a boiled lobster and 
pound it in a mortar with one ounce and a half of butter (size 
of an egg), a saltspoonful of salt, half as much white pepper, 
and the coral of the lobster (if there is any). When it has 
turned to a smooth paste, it is ready to be formed into small 
cutlets, with a small lobster claw stuck in each. Dip into a 
beaten-up egg, and then turn them in some fine bread-crumbs. 
Repeat this after a minute or two, then saute the cutlets in hot 
butter, and serve them as a course by themselves. 

Lobster Stew. Cut the meat of a boiled lobster into 
slices, put it into a stew-pan with a saltspoonful of salt, a 
teaspoonful of French mustard, a tablespoonful of good cider 
vinegar, and two ounces of butter. Cover it up, and allow 
to stew over a moderate fire for about six minutes. Then add 
a wineglassful of white wine, and let stew another four to five 
minutes. At the last, sprinkle over with white pepper, then 
serve, and garnish with parsley and slices of lemon. 

Lobster Fricassee. Cut a boiled lobster into pieces about 
an inch square, and break up the shells- into little pieces by 
means of pestle and mortar. Melt and make hot three ounces 
of butter ; add to it the shells, and when the whole bubbles up 
stir into it a heaped tablespoonful of flour. After it thickens, 
add broth sufficient to give it the consistency of a sauce, and 
let all boil slowly for half an hour, then strain through a hair 
sieve. Return it to the fire, add the meat of the lobster and 
the yolks of two eggs beaten up in a little cream. Stir over 
the fire until hot, but do not let it come to a boil. You may 
add to the sauce some asparagus points cooked beforehand in 
salted water, or some balls made of bread-crumbs 2 or fish; or 
both, balls and asparagus. The fish balls you make in this 
way : Take three tablespoonfuls of bread-crumbs ; moisten 

1 See pp. 74 and 153. 2 See p. 27. 



LETTER XVII 145 

them with broth, and stir over the fire until bubbling up. Then 
remove from the fire, and mix into them about six ounces of 
cooked fish freed from skin and bones, one whole 

i i n r i 11 Fish balls. 

egg and the yolk of another one, some salt and 
pepper, a little grated nutmeg, and a teaspoonful of minced 
parsley. Make a thick and smooth paste of all this by working it 
over and over with a wooden pestle. Then form into little balls, 
which boil in some broth for about five minutes, or until done. 

Baked Lobster. Chop the meat of a boiled lobster. Chop 
also two or three shallots (or a slice of onion) and put into 
three ounces of melted and boiling hot butter. Then remove 
to the side of the stove, and let the shallots simmer until soft, 
when you add the chopped lobster, a saltspoonful of salt, a 
sprinkle of pepper, a teaspoonful of minced parsley, a little 
minced tarragon, if you have any ; and, lastly, four eggs beaten 
light beforehand. Stir and mix over the fire, without allowing 
it to boil. Put this mixture into a buttered gratin-dish, cover 
it with bread-crumbs, sprinkle with melted butter, and bake 
in a moderately hot oven. You may serve with it a sauce Hol- 
landaise * colored with some of the lobster coral. Should you 
have the right number of lobster-shells one for each person 
fill them with the mixture, and bake it in them. 

Creamed Lobster. Chop the meat of the boiled lobster, put 
it into a sauce-pan, add a saltspoonful of salt, half as much 
white pepper, a tablespoonful of white wine, and as much vinegar. 
Let it get hot, then add one ounce of butter (size of half an egg) 
mixed with a heaped teaspoonful of flour and a gill of cream. 
Stir the whole over the fire, allowing it to cook gently for ten min- 
utes. You may serve this also in lobster-shells, but do not bake. 

Lobster is delicious with a mayonnaise sauce, and as a salad. 
But I defer giving you the recipe for it until I talk to you about 
salads in general and in particular. I will add, however, the 
recipe for a 

Lobster Sauce. Chop very fine the coral of a boiled lob- 
ster, together with two anchovies. Moisten it with some broth, 

i See p. 131. 



146 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

and add a piece of butter the size of a walnut. Rub it through 
a hair sieve. Take as much of the coral as will give a fine red 
color to a bechamel sauce. Flavor with a little lemon juice, and 
add to it a heaped tablespoonful of the lobster meat cut into 
small dice. If you cannot procure any anchovies, take anchovy 
paste the size of a large pea. What is left of the 

Lobster butter. 

lobster coral you may mix with some more melted 
butter and set away for further use. It will do instead of cray- 
fish butter which I recommended to you for some recipes. 

Now, before closing my lesson on fish, I want to say some- 
thing about a generally discarded amphibians, the frog, of 
Fro s 1 i e s which the hind legs alone come in question. They 
are said to be nourishing and very easily digested. 
Dr. Wiel, who was a famous specialist for diseases of the 
stomach, recommends them highly for invalid diet, either 
stewed or in soup. I give you the following recipe for stewed 
frogs' legs, which I take from a German cook-book devoted to 
Lenten fare : 

Remove the toes of the frogs' legs and wash them clean. 
Make a sauce of butter and flour, thinned with water and fla- 
vored with lemon peel and juice. Put the frogs' legs into this 
sauce and let them stew until tender. When done, add the 
yolks of two eggs. 

They are also good this way : Cook the frogs' legs until 
tender in some water, to which you add salt, a bunch of thyme, 
an onion, and a little vinegar. Do not use any more water 
than just enough to cover them. Strain the liquid and pour 
over the frogs' legs before you serve them. Sau/e some 
bread-crumbs in a little butter, and, when brown, spread them 
on the top. 

You may also treat them as a friture, either dipping them 
in batter, 1 or merely turning them in egg and fine bread-crumbs, 
before frying them. But, of course, cooked in this way they 
are less digestible. 

" Basta!" says the Italian "enough for to-day." 

1 See p. 78. 



LETTER XVIII 



Let olives, endives, mallows light 
Be all my fare. 

HORACE. 

Eat cress, and have more wit. 

GREEK PROVERB. 

I AM glad to hear that now you think yourself prepared with 
all my teachings to give a dinner party. There is, how- 
ever, one thing more which you have first to learn, and that is 
to plan and dress a salad. I have a long lesson in store for 
you, a pleasant task, for I count it a very important part 
of culinary art, and a delightful accomplishment, to make a 
salad in perfection. 

There are raw, cooked, and mixed salads. But lettuce is 
the salad par excellence, and cannot be recommended suffi- 
ciently for its refreshing, its wholesome, and cool- Genera , re _ 
ing qualities. Cooked vegetables, fish, and meats, marks about 
when made into salads, either by themselves or 
mixed, can be made very tempting ; but for a healthy diet I 
would recommend only the green salads and the cooked vege- 
tables simply dressed. They yield material for a large variety 
of salads and give you an opportunity for testing your talent. 

In our country, with its succulent vegetables, green salad is 
not yet introduced as generally as it deserves. During our hot 
summers especially it ought to be part of the principal meal, at 
least. Brillat-Savarin says : " Salad refreshes without debili- 
tating, and comforts without irritating. I am in the habit of 
saying that it is rejuvenating." We find, however, a much 
earlier appreciation of salad the lactuca of the Romans 
in Greek authors, where it is praised as soothing, fortifying the 
stomach, and favoring sleep. 



148 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

This latter, by the by, reminds me of a little incident occur- 
ring years ago. It was June time. We lived in the country 
and had a guest at our table, a distinguished pioneer and 
general. At dinner I had served with the roast a lettuce salad, 
which was fresh from the garden, and prepared and dressed 
with my own hands, as I thought, in the most tempting way. 
But, when offered, our guest declined to take it, remarking that' 
the opium contained in the lettuce leaves was apt to make him 
inopportunely drowsy. This was news to me ; nor do I find it 
stated anywhere that opium really exists in lettuce. The milky 
juice of the stem, because resembling that of poppies, se&ms to 
have led to this belief. This juice, most likely, is the vehicle 
for the nutritives contained in salad, and the fresher the latter, 
the juicier and consequently the more nutritious it is. Accord- 
ing to Liebig, lettuce has of alkalies 23 to 24 per cent of its 
dry substances. But when we consider that it has 94 parts of 
water in every 100, we cannot place it very high as a nutritive. 
Its usefulness, like that of other green and vegetable salads, lies 
in another direction, as indicated above ; while the defect of it, 
and of all of them, is easily remedied, if we add the nutri- 
ents they are deficient in. The best accompaniment, there- 
fore, for green salad is eggs in any form you please ; and is 
there a prettier sight, on the table, than a dish full of green 
curly leaves of lettuce set off with quarters of hard-boiled 
eggs? 

Aside from lettuce, we have herbs for salad. An old parch- 
ment volume of 1691, in my possession, enumerates sixty-two 
kinds of them for a famous herb salad. I would not want you 
to go to that extent ; nor would you be able to procure most 
of them in our days. I merely wish to call your attention to 
certain tender herbs which our markets now afford. They are 
principally water-cress, peppergrass, field salad, borage, chicory, 
dandelion, and they make a nice salad each by itself, as well as 
intermixed ad libitum. With the exception of dandelion they 
also garnish beautifully every kind of salad. The latter in its 
wild state makes a wholesome salad in the spring, when the 
first fresh shoots appear on meadows and fields, and you dig 



LETTER XVIII 149 

for the plant deep enough to get part of the root. The tender, 
clover-like leaf of the oxalis (pxalis acetosella}, which is to 
be found in the woods during the summer, will also furnish 
you with a slightly acid and refreshing salad. The following 
herbs are what the French call "fournitures de salade " 
(trimmings for salad): water-cress, peppergrass, chervil, chives, 
tarragon, pimpernel (garden burnet), balm-mint and borage. 
Add to all these the orange- tinted flowers of nasturtium and 
the blue blossoms of borage, which you may either make into 
a salad by themselves, dressing them with oil, vinegar, and 
salt, or use for a garnish, and you must acknowledge that 
you never need be in trouble about having an enticing and 
even artistic dish of salad on your table. The Italians, who 
are extremely fond of salad, use for it almost anything green 
they can find. When in Northern Italy once in early spring, 
I met during my walk a little black-eyed peasant girl rilling her 
apron full of the sprouting shoots of clematis growing on a 
hedge. I curiously inquired the purpose of it, to which she 
replied, " 'Per far insalata" (to make salad of). But the 
French were the first to excel in salad-making. Many a distin- 
guished Frenchman prided himself on his proficiency in this 
art ; and let me tell you here of my belief that it takes the 
fine sensibilities of a gentleman or a lady to make a really good 
salad. Ordinary cooks and servants are incapable of compre- 
hending even the first principles of it. When the French Revo- 
lution drove the aristocrats from their country, some of them 
made their living, and even their fortunes like D'Albignac 
by the making of salads. 

" Tu sais que pour la salade 
J'ai les soins d'un emigre " 
(You know I have for the salad 
The emigrant's cares), 

writes Monselet in " Le diner que je veuxfaire " (the dinner I 
want to devise). 

To dress a salad is not as easy a task as you might think. 
The so-called " French dressing," of oil, vinegar, and salt, seems 



150 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

to be such a simple affair ; but unless you take each of these 
elements in exactly the right proportion to each other and the 
salad to be dressed, the result will not be the desired one. 
To be an expert, you have to divine by instinct how much 
to take of each. I never allow a servant even 
HOW to prepare to touch the leaves of the salad I have served at 

lettuce for salad, 

and how to table, for to have the salad to perfection the touch 
' must be light, the fingers to trim and arrange 



must be nimble. First take leaf by leaf, throwing 
away the outside and coarse ones, and removing all imperfec- 
tions of those fit for use ; then put them in a deep dish full of 
cold water to rinse them, one by one, transferring them at the 
same time into a large colander. This done, take the latter 
with both hands and toss the leaves lightly up and down in it, 
which will free them from the water clinging to them. Now 
put the colander on a plate and remove the whole to the re- 
frigerator ; but do not let it come in contact with the ice, which 
would chill the salad to such a degree as to rob it of its char- 
acteristic flavor. There you leave it standing for an hour, or 
until near dinner-time, when it will have turned deliciously 
crisp. Then take up once more leaf after leaf, dividing the 
larger ones carefully into halves and arranging them in a salad- 
bowl, wreath within wreath, like a full-blown rose. It will 
depend on your skill and inspiration to vary your salad by 
intermingling or garnishing it with one or more herbs of a 
darker green, the white and yellow of eggs, the tender pink of 
radishes, the pale green of thinly sliced cucumbers, the flowers 
of nasturtium, etc. Suppose you have done this to your sat- 
isfaction, you put your salad-bowl once more in the refriger- 
ator, with distinct orders to leave it there until the time comes 
for placing it on the table, to be dressed dexterously with your 
own hands, to the delight of your husband and your guests, if 
guests there be. As to the dressing itself. I have told you 
already that instinct will have to teach you more than any 
recipe can do, but, in a general sense, I can recommend the 
following proportions for a plain French dressing : Take, for 
a heaped soup-plateful of salad, a heaped saltspoonful of salt, 



LETTER XVIII 151 

three tablespoonfuls of oil, and one tablespoonful of vinegar. 
Put the salt in your spoon first, then the oil (which must be of 
the best) ; mix the two with your salad-fork, and pour over 
the salad ; then mix with the latter, and after adding the vine- 
gar, mix again thoroughly. If the vinegar is not very sharp, 
add the juice of half a lemon. A sprinkle of white pepper 
mixed in with the oil is also recommendable, as well as a slight 
addition of mushroom catsup mixed in with the vinegar. 
Whenever I want to add some other ingredients to the plain 
dressing, I mix them beforehand with the vinegar needed, and 
pour the mixture, ready for use, in the empty vinegar-cruet of 
the caster. 

If you wish to dress your lettuce salad with mayonnaise, it 
is best to put the latter in the bottom of the salad-bowl and to 
arrange the salad on top of it, allowing the sauce to show in 
the centre. In that case you have but to mix the salad after 
it comes to the table. I will give you some recipes for mayon- 
naise and other salad sauces by and by. 

A salad of herbs endives (of which the escarol is the best 
kind), water-cresses, dandelion, and field (or corn) salad is 
always at its best when merelv dressed with salt, 

* *., ' About the dress- 

vmegar, and oil. Endives are improved by put- m g of herb 
ting them into warm (not hot) water for a short s 
time, then rinsing them in cold water. It somewhat lessens their 
bitter flavor. Dandelion ought always to be a salad by itself. 
Its bitter and pungent flavor does not harmonize with any other 
herb or vegetable. Tarragon vinegar, substituted for plain vine- 
gar, is the only deviation in the above dressing which is per- 
mitted. Field (or corn) salad does not allow as much oil as 
other salads do. It is improved by the addition of a cooked 
potato, grated and mixed into the plain dressing. Water-cresses 
are spoiled by too much vinegar ; they bear but a sprinkle of it. 
A famous firm of gardeners in Germany, who make the culture 
of water-cresses one of their specialties, give the following direc- 
tions for dressing them : Pick and rinse them two or three hours 
before meal-time. Shake them dry, and squeeze the juice of 
half a lemon over a quart of them. Add one tablespoonful 



152 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

of oil, and a small onion minced fine. No vinegar. Mix well 
and let stand in a cool place until served. 

Apart from the exceptions stated, you may, of course, vary 
your dressing as much as the composition of your salads. I 
More substantial will gi ye vou n ow a small number of varied salad 
dressings. dressings or sauces to use at your own discretion. 

I begin with the -oft repeated, because never to be forgotten, 
recipe of Sydney Smith : 

" Two boiled potatoes pressed through kitchen sieve 
Smoothness and softness to the salad give. 
Of mordant mustard add a single spoon, 
Distrust the condiment that bites too soon; 
But deem it not, thou man of herbs, a fault 
To add a double quantity of salt. 
Three times the spoon with oil of Lucca crown, 
And once with vinegar procured from town; 
The flavor needs it, and your poet begs 
The pounded yellow of two well-boiled eggs. 
Let onion atoms lurk within the bowl, 
And scarce suspected animate the whole. 
And lastly, o'er the flavored compound toss 
A magic spoonful of anchovy sauce; 
Then, though green turtle fail, though venison's tough, 
And ham and turkey are not boned enough, 
Serenely full, the epicure may say, 
4 Fate cannot hurt me I have dined to-day.' " 

This recipe, in its quaint form, gives you the base for other 
varieties of salad dressing when you lack time to make a 
mayonnaise, and yet wish to have something more than a plain 
dressing. A very excellent variety is the following : 

Take two or three hard-boiled eggs, rub them to a paste, 
and add gradually about five tablespoonfuls of oil, one tea- 
spoonful of French mustard, a sprinkle of white pepper, three 
to four tablespoonfuls of vinegar, and either a tablespoonful of 
minced cives, or capers. You may also leave out the mustard, 
take less oil and vinegar, and add half a cupful of cream. 

A very excellent dressing, also, is the following : 

Take the yolks of one hard-boiled and one raw egg, one tea- 
spoonful of French mustard, one saltspoonful of salt, three to 



LETTER XVIII 153 

four tablespoonfuls of oil, one tablespoonful each of cider and 
of tarragon vinegar, half a teaspoonful each of anchovy essence 
and mushroom catsup, and one heaped tablespoonful of minced 
parsley, chervil, pimpernel (garden burnet) and tarragon mixed. 
Stir until perfectly smooth. The herbs you may omit, if you 
choose. 

The mayonnaise dressing or sauce has to be prepared with 
greater care to make it a success. For a fish or meat salad 
I prefer the following mayonnaise : Boil four eggs 

-i- i i Three different 

for fifteen minutes ; put them in cold water, and mayonnaise 
when cool take the yolks and mash them to a d 
paste. Now take two ounces of freshest butter ; let it get soft 
enough to beat it to a cream (always beating in the same 
direction) . Add to it, little by little, the above egg ; and 
afterward, also very gradually, the raw yolks of three eggs, 
stirring vigorously all the time. See that the raw eggs are not 
cold, lest your butter should curdle. If it does, add the raw 
yolk of another egg. Add salt and vinegar (or lemon juice) 
to taste. If the mixture has not enough consistency, add some 
olive oil, drop by drop. 

Another very excellent recipe is this : Take four raw yolks 
and put them into a porcelain dish. Place this dish on ice. 
Stir into the yolks half a pint of olive oil by taking a teaspoon- 
ful at a time and allowing it to mix drop by drop with the egg. 
Just as soon as the latter begins to thicken, add a few drops 
of lemon juice ; then proceed to mix in another teaspoonful 
of oil and more of the lemon juice, until all the oil is absorbed. 
The occasional adding of the lemon juice prevents the curdling 
of the sauce. Add salt to taste, and, if you like, a little tarragon 
vinegar. Keep in a cold place until used. 

For a quickly made mayonnaise I can recommend the fol- 
lowing recipe : 

Take the yolks of two eggs and the juice of half a lemon. 
Stir until thickening, when add salt, oil, and vinegar in pro- 
portions given above. If made in this way you need not 
be particular about adding the oil drop by drop : be care- 
ful only not to add it in larger quantities than a teaspoonful 



154 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

at a time. This is the best mayonnaise dressing for green 
salads. 

All these recipes you had better follow closely at first, until 
by and by you may vary them at your needs, or as your 
inspiration leads you. 

A slight addition of wine is often a great improvement. 
Some experts also will put a small piece of brown or rye bread 
in the bottom of the dish to give a peculiar flavor to the 
salad, and for those who like a taste of onion, or garlic, you 
may either rub the bread or the sides of the salad-dish with a 
slice of onion or a bit of garlic. These little fine touches, and 
how and when to apply, you have to learn by yourself. This 
is the case also in regard to mixed salads, for which I will give 
you a few recipes merely as suggestions upon which to produce 
your own variations and "compositions." 

I begin with some plain ones and keep the more elaborate 
recipes for the last : Take some endives, well blanched ; sepa- 
rate the branches from the stem, cleanse and rinse well, then 
put in warm water for a short time. Drain well, and arrange 
in the centre of a salad-bowl. Then surround it with water- 
cress dressed beforehand in the shape of a wreath. Finish the 
dish with an outside rim of beet salad. 

The latter ought to be always at hand in your store-closet. 
In winter, when green salad is scarce, beets can be resorted to. 
combinations in They make a salad, either by themselves, or in 
salads, and how combination with potatoes, celery root, meat, or 

to pickle beets. _ . _, . . . . . , , . 

fish. Take for this purpose the large, dark red 
beets, and boil them as indicated in my instructions on vege- 
tables. 1 When cool, peel them and cut them into slices a 
quarter of an inch thick. Have a stone jar ready, and place 
into it your beets layer-wise, putting between each layer a few 
scraps of horse-radish, and two or three black pepper seeds. 
Pour boiling vinegar enough over the whole to cover it. It will 
keep for months, if put in a cool place. When needed for use, 
take out with a silver fork the desired number of slices, and dress 
with salt, vinegar, and oil. 

1 See p. 121. 



LETTER XVIII 155 

A combined beet and celery root salad is very palatable. 
Boil the latter, after cleansing it well, in slightly salted water. 
Do not let it get too tender. Drain and remove all specks and 
fibrous matter on the outside. Cut into slices like beets, and 
pour over them while still warm a dressing of a good deal of 
oil and vinegar, and a sprinkle of pepper and salt. If kept in 
a cool place, this salad will keep for two or three days. 

Celery root, on the other hand, combines well with red 
cabbage, which you shred as fine as possible after removing 
the thick ribs. Mix into it a plain dressing. Do About ca bba g e 
it a few hours before use, which will improve the salads> 
salad. Heap up the cabbage in the middle of a dish, and let 
the wheels of celery root form the outer rim. This, also, is a 
nice winter salad, when green things fail or are too high- 
priced. 

A cheap salad is made of white cabbage. Take a firm head 
only. For a family of three, one-quarter of it will be sufficient 
to make a good dishful. Shred it fine, and, if very young, 
dress it a couple of hours before meal-time with a plain dress- 
ing. Some boiled potatoes sliced and minced with it are a 
good addition. You may also combine white and red cabbage 
in different rims, and have the potato salad in the centre. In 
winter, when cabbage is old, it is better to scald the white 
cabbage by pouring over it some boiling water, in which to 
leave it for about fifteen minutes. Then drain the water off, 
and pour over your shredded cabbage, while still warm, the 
mayonnaise dressing quickly made, for which I gave you 
the recipe. This is a slight variation on the " cold slaw " (the 
proper name in Dutch is koolsla), known among our country 
population, especially in Pennsylvania. 

Other vegetables, also, may be appropriated for salads after 
they are boiled. Some roses of cauliflower left over, some 
asparagus, string-beans, even carrots, green peas, 
and dried beans, you may use, either by them- forsaiad, and 
selves or in combination, for an attractive-looking 
salad. Be sure, however, to have all these vegetables dressed 
a while beforehand, in order to have them impregnated by 



156 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

their dressing. If you omit this, they will taste flat. And 
never have them icy cold. It kills their flavor. A certain 
medium between cold and warm favors them best. Keep the 
latter rules in mind, also, for potato salad, for which I will give 
you some recipes in my next letter. For the present I close 
with one more recipe and a very good one for a com- 
bination salad, which will at the same time teach you a few 
more things. 

Take cucumbers, string-beans, and lettuce of equal propor- 
tions. Peel and slice cucumbers from the stem downward. 
When you get near the end, taste it to see that it 

An excellent J 

combination is not bitter ; it is generally the end only which is 

salad, and how , 1-11 r > i ni- 

to treat apt to be so, while the rest is perfectly good. Slice 

them very thin. Do not follow the old-fashioned 
way of salting the slices and extracting the juice. The latter 
is the only really useful and digestible part of the cucumber and 
the very substance of it which is so refreshing and cooling 
when eaten. The rest is merely fibrous matter. On account 
of its highly cooling quality, the cucumber sometimes causes 
catarrh of the stomach ; therefore do not increase this danger 
by chilling it through contact with ice, but rather alleviate it 
by a free use of pepper. Use cucumbers only which you 
know are fresh, and prepare them just before dinner. The 
string-beans must be fresh also and very young. String them 
well on both sides, and, after washing them, throw them 
into boiling water, slightly salted, and boil until just tender. 
Then drain, and cut into lozenge-shaped pieces one or two 
inches long. Dress them while warm with oil, salt, and vinegar. 
Do it a couple of hours before meal-time, and when arranging 
your salad for the table remove the beans to the salad-bowl 
without their dressing. Stir into the latter one or two grated 
potatoes boiled the day before, and use it with some additional 
oil, salt, and vinegar for the dressing of your well-arranged 
dishful of the above ingredients. 



LETTER XIX 

Let none assume the art of entertaining at table, 
If he has not penetrated into the secret of tastes. 

HORACE. 

WHEN I began to tell you about salads, I meant to have 
done with them in one letter. But very soon I found 
that to do it justice, and instruct you thoroughly, another letter 
would have to be written. If I read your mind rightly, you 
will submit to this infliction with grace I hope, maybe, with 
gladness. 

Now, to lose no time, I at once proceed to teach you how 
to make the homely potato salad, which during the last thirty 
years has found so many friends in our country. 

, *_ f i c 11 Various ways of 

It serves as a base for a number of excellent making a potato 
combinations. There are two ways of making 
a potato salad : one is to have it in distinct slices, when 
you have to make it of cold boiled potatoes ; the other is to 
slice and dress the potatoes while hot, which is rather apt to 
break up the slices into smaller fragments. The latter method 
renders the salad mellower, and certainly wholesomer than the 
former. Yet this is rather a matter of taste. It is my way of 
doing. In either case you have to take potatoes of a certain 
firmness I mean not too mealy and boil them in their 
jackets. When drained, peel and slice them into a rather flat 
dish, and pour over them enough of hot meat broth to moisten 
them. It gives them a better flavor, and makes them more 
nourishing. Cover them up and let them steep for about five 
minutes. Have a little onion minced fine, add it to the 
potatoes, and dress the latter now with plenty of vinegar, oil, 
pepper, and salt. Add the vinegar before the oil. To mix the 
salad without breaking it up too much, place a platter over 



158 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

the dish which holds the salad, and give it a good tossing. 
Then remove the salad into the dish you mean to serve it 
in, and trim it according to your fancy. To vary the dress- 
ing, add a teaspoonful of French mustard, or some capers, or 
both. Or replace half of the vinegar by as much claret. In 
that case, beets cut in small dice are a good addition. So are, 
at another time, white celery stalks cut into shreds. A sprinkle 
of minced parsley will accentuate the color and flavor. Part 
of a salt herring, skinned and boned, and cut into small dice, 
will give to potato salad a pleasant piquancy, as will also pickled 
cucumbers cut into shreds. There are, in fact, very few things 
which you cannot add to a potato salad. This makes it an 
economical one, since remnants of food will serve for its 
composition. 

Potatoes are necessary also for an Italian and a Portuguese 
A Portuguese salad. For the latter take stewed mushrooms, 
salad< boiled potatoes, and raw tomatoes. Cut into thin 

slices ; dress with oil, salt, and pepper, and add last of all a 
small glassful of sherry, but no vinegar. 

The following is one of a number of recipes for "Italian 
salad " : Take boiled potatoes, sour apples, pickled cucumbers, 

An Italian salad aiK * CO k e d VCa ^ ( OnG CU P ^ eacn ) j Cut mt 

small dice. Add half a cupful of beets, three 
hard-boiled eggs, and ten anchovies, also cut into dice. Mix 
all this with one and a half cupfuls of oil, one small glassful of 
sherry, one to two tablespoonfuls of tarragon vinegar, salt, and 
pepper. Cover up the whole and allow it to stand in a cool 
place for about three hours ; then mix it once more thoroughly, 
put it in your salad-dish and garnish with anchovies, pickles, 
capers, and corned beef or ham cut into even shreds. 

The following is an excellent appetizer : Take the breast 

An a etizer ^ * roast cmc ^ en one sa ^ herring, one anchovy, 
some boiled ham or tongue, and two hard-boiled 
eggs ; chop fine and dress with oil and vinegar. 

I must not fail to give you the recipe for a real sardine salad. 
The sardines needed for it are the salted ones, which come in 
little kegs and are sold by weight. For a large dishful of salad 



LETTER XIX 159 

take half a pound of them. Soak them in water for about an 
hour, changing the water several times. Then divide them 
into halves by pulling them apart from head downward, remov- 
ing the spine. Take about half of the filets thus obtained, and 
cut them into narrow strips an inch and a half long. The rest 
you roll up turban-shaped, and set aside for garnishing. Take 
also small gherkins, pickled mushrooms, crayfish-tails (which 
come in little glass jars), smoked salmon, some mixed pickles, 
and cut them likewise into strips. Add capers, and mix the 
whole with oil and vinegar. Heap it up on a salad-dish, and 
garnish with small triangles of smoked salmon, the sardines 
rolled up, capers, pickled cherries, stoned olives, and pickled 
oysters, 1 finishing at the base with a rim of boiled tongue cat 
in imitation of cocks' combs, alternating with thin slices of 
lemon similarly frayed. 

As a sample fish salad I will give you a Venetian one : Take 
two herrings out of brine, and after they have been well soaked, 
skin and bone them ; take also one pound of Venetian fish 
pickled eel, half a pound of salted sardines, which salad> 
soak and then halve, and cut all this into small dice. Mix 
with part of a mayonnaise sauce. Now take the middle piece 
of a cauliflower, a handful of tiny green peas, about as much 
of small string-beans, and boil in salted water until done. Take 
half a carrot, and a small celery root, slice them, and with a 
tube cut them into cylindrical pieces as large as your peas. 
Boil them also until tender. Then drain, and cool them off in 
cold water, drain again, and dress all these vegetables with oil, 
salt, and vinegar. Now heap up your mayonnaise salad in the 
centre of a dish, cover it up with more mayonnaise sauce, and 
trim it all over with your vegetables, arranging them symmetri- 
cally and well assorted as to color. Place the cauliflower on 
the very top, and garnish the edge of the salad with quarters 
of hard-boiled eggs, allowing their whites only to show. 

Now, suppose you take boiled salmon (canned will do pretty 
nearly as well) instead of salt and pickled fish, as above, and you 

1 See p. 201. 



160 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

will have an extremely nice variation. Salmon harmonizes par- 
ticularly well with mayonnaise, and if you relieve it by a rim 
A salmon salad ^ C S P> green lettuce leaves, and inside of it 
put a border of broken-up amber-colored aspic, 
you will have a most refined as well as a beautiful-looking 
dish of salad. By adding to a mayonnaise for salmon a little 
anchovy paste or essence, you will give it a slight piquancy, 
well in accord with that fish. Instead of salmon, any other 
kind of cooked fish will do for a salad ; and a sauce tartare, 
ravigote l or remoulade 2 will serve instead of a mayonnaise. 

If you wish to try a lobster salad, ask your fish dealer for a 
female lobster. Take the eggs, which will give a fine flavor 

A lobster salad. and color to ^ our dressing, pound them in a 
mortar with as much oil as they will take up, 
and add them either to a mayonnaise or the following dress- 
ing : Rub to a paste the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs, add 
three tablespoonfuls of oil, one tablespoonful of tarragon vine- 
gar, a teaspoonful of English mustard, two or three minced 
shallots, a teaspoonful of minced tarragon leaves, salt to taste, 
and a sprinkle of white pepper. If not acid enough add some 
lemon juice, and stir the whole until thoroughly mixed and 
smooth. Cut your lobster into small pieces, saving some of 
the claws for garnishing, dust them over with a very little salt 
and white pepper, and pour over them some tarragon vinegar. 
Let them stand for about an hour ; then heap up on a flat dish, 
pour the dressing (which meanwhile has been kept on ice) 
over and around the lobster. Then trim, using crisp lettuce, 
or endive, stoned olives, slices of hard-boiled eggs, tiny pickled 
cucumbers, capers, etc., etc. I might suggest here also for an 
outer rim to use nasturtium flowers arranged wreath-like, and 
leave it for you to go on improving on this suggestion. 

You know already how good a salad can be made of cooked 
vegetables. You may dress it plain or with a mayonnaise. In 
the latter case I advise to have the dressing served separately, 
while the vegetable's are kept in a marinade of lemon juice and 

1 See p. 74. 2 See p. 134. 



LETTER XIX 161 

salt for about an hour's time, and then drained, previous to 
serving. In Switzerland the carrots boiled with the meat are 
frequently served as a plain salad with the bouilli, cooked vegetable 
the boiled beef, and eaten while still warm. They salads - 
are quite good. But a plain vegetable salad served to us at 
a cosey little restaurant at Paris, at a time when the Anglo- 
Saxons had not invaded its secluded precincts, was by far a 
superior one. It consisted of green peas, carrots, and celery 
root, the two latter cut into very small dice, which were 
arranged in three sections of a circle, running to a point in 
the centre. A mayonnaise would have completely hidden this 
pretty effect of geometry and color ; but it might have been 
a tasty accessory, if it had been served with it. We, however, 
did not miss it, for it was palatable enough without. I would 
suggest to improve this salad, by placing some roses of cauli- 
flower put together like the centre of a head in the middle, 
and then having the other vegetables start from this centre 
piece, widening towards the rim of the dish. You might try 
this some day when you have some cauliflower left over. Then, 
in winter, when an open can of vegetables will keep for several 
days, you might take some green peas from one can, some 
string-beans from another, some asparagus tops from a third, 
a carrot from the soup-kettle, and a boiled potato from the 
day before, cut and trim it all in the right shape, and you 
would have a salad in a very short time, and at little expense. 

Still another variation is the salad a la Nostiz, called after 
a German nobleman : Take equal quantities of asparagus tops 
and roses of cauliflower, about half the quantity of young 
string-beans cut into lozenge-shaped pieces, and as much of 
carrots and celery root, cut into small dice. Boil all these in 
salted water until tender, drain and cover them with vinegar 
and oil dressing, then set them aside for an hour. Take 
meanwhile about half a dozen heads of lettuce and remove all 
the leaves, making use only of their firm and white hearts. 
Dress them separately with plain French dressing. Put them in 
the centre of a salad-dish, and arrange around them the 
cooked vegetables. Garnish the whole with hard-boiled eggs 



162 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

cut into quarters, and with claws of lobster. Cover with a 
mayonnaise sauce. 

The Dumas, father and son, have been inventors of salads. 
To the Japanese salad of the younger Dumas is attached both 
literary and culinary celebrity. It belongs to the extravagant 
ones, which are not within the scope of my advice. But as a 
A Dumas salad ^ r sam P^ e ^ a Dumas salad I give you this 
recipe : Take one egg for each person, and boil 
hard the number needed. Rub the yolks to a paste ; chop 
the whites, and mix both with a spoonful of minced chervil. 
Add some French mustard dissolved in a little vinegar, oil, 
pepper, and salt. Cut into fine shreds a pickled cucumber, an 
anchovy or two, a small red beet, to which add some capers. 
Finally have some crisp lettuce washed and well drained, mix 
all together and serve. 

Of all meat salads, that made of chicken or turkey is the 
best. To be economical, however, you can take part veal or, 
Chicken salad better still, rabbit, and mix with the former. It 
will hardly be detected. Take equal parts of 
meat cooked tender and cut into dice. Cut celery stalks into 
thin pieces. Keep some of the tender white celery leaves for 
garnishing. Mix the meat and celery, add a good sprinkle of 
salt, a little white pepper, and the juice of a lemon. Let stand 
for about two or three hours in a cool place. Make a thick 
mayonnaise, adding some cream at the last to make it as white 
as possible. Take a few tablespoonfuls of it to mix with the 
salad, which heap on a dish, and cover with the rest of the 
mayonnaise. Garnish with celery and lettuce leaves, beets, 
stoned olives, capers, little pickled cucumbers, or anything else 
that will be pleasing. 

Any other cold meat will make a nice salad. You can mix 
with it almost any pickled fish, cucumbers, beets, as well as 
other varieties of potatoes, herbs, mushrooms, etc. A bit of dark 
meat salad. meat i e f t over j s S p eec ijiy transformed into a nice 
salad by cutting it into small dice or thin shreds, and making 
a dressing for it of a saltspoonful of mustard, a tablespoonful 
of sour cream, two tablespoonfuls of vinegar, some pepper, 



LETTER XIX 163 

salt, a bit of minced onion, minced tarragon, and any other 
herb you may have at hand. Trim with peppergrass or water- 
cress if convenient. 

I was about to close, when it occurred to me that in all these 
pages I have mentioned tomatoes but once (in the Portu- 
guese salad). It does not require, to be sure, any especial art 
to slice tomatoes, and pour over them a plain dressing or a 
mayonnaise. Still, it would seem to me that I ought to give 
you a few hints about making a perfect tomato salad. Select 
firm ripe tomatoes of equal size. Pour boiling T 

o Tomato salad. 

water over them, and after a few minutes change 
to cold water. Peel them, and cut out the hard parts of the 
stem with a sharp, pointed knife. Then place the tomatoes on 
ice to get thoroughly cold, and, just before serving, slice them 
with a very sharp knife, and not too thin. Place the slices in 
a glass dish, sprinkle them thick with salt and some pepper, and 
pour over them oil and vinegar in great moderation. In the 
South of Europe the bottom and sides of the dish in which 
tomato salad is served are rubbed with the inside of a halved 
clove of garlic. A mixed salad of tomatoes and lettuce has 
found great favor of late years, and is so delightful to look at 
that we often do not realize the actual incongruity between 
the two as to flavor and taste. Their union is improved, how- 
ever, by the binding quality of a thick mayonnaise. A very 
pretty way to serve the three combined is to take a flat dish, 
place the skinned and cold tomatoes on it whole, each on some 
crisp leaves of lettuce curling around it, while the top of the 
tomato is hooded with a teaspoonful of thick mayonnaise. 

If, after all the foregoing, you are in need of a deep breath 
of relief, I am ready to grant it by closing this long chapter on 
salads. 



LETTER XX 



Man cannot accomplish much on an empty stomach. 

GERMAN PROVERB. 

YOU have been waiting patiently all this while for a lesson on 
eggs, this very important article of food. For its corn- 
Food value of ponents are not very different from those of fairly 
eggs - well-fed beef. In the white we get mostly albu- 

minous substance, in the yolk chiefly the fat contained in the 
egg. The minerals are principally sulphur and phosphate of 
lime. But I had better give you a little table to make it more 
comprehensible and exact : 

ALBUM. CARBOH. FATS. WATER. MINERALS. 

Eggs (whole) . . 12.5 o.o 12.0 74.5 i.o 

Whites i i.o o.o o.o 87.5 0.5 

Yolks 16.0 o.o 30.0 51.5 i.o 

Dr. Wiel says that a man can hold his own on a daily diet of 
eight eggs and four-fifths of a pound of bread. This ought to 
be taken into consideration by the provider of a family. Eggs 
are also easily digested, if not cooked too much. 
Jh?eh*to*cek They are best when boiled soft. A good diges- 
t gg d S d how tion, however, can manage even hard-boiled eggs. 
The former need three minutes' boiling if put into 
boiling water ; the latter five minutes. If you wish them neither 
too soft nor too hard, allow them four minutes. Eggs to be 
used for mayonnaise or to be stuffed, have to be boiled ten to 
fifteen minutes. All this, however, is no sure guide in cold 
weather, unless the eggs have been allowed to remain in a warm 
place for a while beforehand, to take off the chill. 

Try your eggs as to freshness before you boil them ; put 
them into cold water, and if they sink to the bottom they are 
164 



LETTER XX 1G5 

fresh. An egg more than a week old will not sink, but swim 
on top. Wash and clean them before boiling. This is very 
important, because the dirt clinging to them will enter the 
inside through the many small pores of the shell. When in 
doubt as to their freshness, it is best to open your eggs and 
use them for poaching, frying, scrambling, etc. They will thus 
furnish you with the daintiest of breakfast dishes. 

To poach eggs take a wide, flat stew-pan and put into it one 
quart of water, one cupful of vinegar, one tablespoonful of salt ; 
when it comes to a boil, open your eggs one by one into a cup ; 
drop them into the boiling water ; but not more than two or 
three at a time. Take a spoon, and try to keep each egg in 
shape, by pushing the whites toward the yolk. As soon as the 
whites are firm, take out the eggs carefully with a skimmer. 
Place each on a slice of buttered toast. Now, if you have a 
tomato sauce at hand, and pour it around the eggs and toast, 
you will have a most delicious dish to serve. But you may 
also pour hot milk over the toast, in which some butter has 
been melted, and, of course, omit the tomato sauce. 

Fried eggs are best and nicest done in little egg-moulds, 
which are made for the purpose. They come in pairs or 
threes, and so on up to six and more. I have a mould of six, 
and if I have fewer eggs to fry, I fill the other forms with 
water. Put a tiny little piece of butter in each mould, drop 
in the eggs, and, while cooking, loosen the whites at the edges 
every few seconds to prevent the under side from getting too 
much done. Sprinkle the eggs with salt and pepper, if you 
like. As soon as the whites are firm, take out the eggs with a 
spoon. They are nice with spinach, sorrel, and green salads, 
the acids of the two latter, especially, helping to digest the 
albuminous matter of the egg, each one complementing the 
other in a very desirable and palatable way. 

For "panned eggs," take a porcelain pie-plate, butter it, 
pour in thick cream enough to fill it half full, drop in some 
egffs (four or five) side by side ; place on each _ 

v ' J Panned eggs. 

yolk a few capers ; dust over them some minced 

parsley (or cives) and some fine bread-crumbs, and put flakes 



166 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

of butter here and there. Place in the oven and let the eggs 
get firm and slightly brown on top. 

For "eggs on shells," butter some scallop-shells, fill them 
partly full with smoked salmon or bloaters cut in small dice, 

and drop an egg on top of each without break- 
Eggs on shells. . *" 

ing the yolk. Put in the oven until the whites 
have set, and serve at once. 

And now you want to try your hand at an omelet. This is 
no easy undertaking, but I do not see why you should be less 
HOW to make an successful than others who have tried and come 
omelet. ou |. victorious. First of all, have a good, brisk 

fire, and a frying-pan well heated,. Break your eggs into 
a basin, add a small pinch of salt, and a teaspoon ful 
of cream (or milk) for each one. Whisk them until whites 
and yolks are mixed ; it makes the omelet light. Put a piece 
of butter (very fresh) the size of half an egg for every three or 
four eggs into your pan, and when sizzling hot pour in your 
eggs. Be quick now, and shake your pan with one hand, 
while with the other, holding a silver fork, you turn up the egg 
which is coagulating. When every part is equally cooked and 
creamy, you allow the eggs at the bottom to get firm, but not 
brown. To prevent the latter you have to keep shaking the 
pan, and with it the omelet, which must stay creamy on top. 
Then with a spatula you turn one-half of the omelet over the 
other half and, placing a hot plate over your pan, you toss 
your omelet upside down into the middle of the plate. Thus 
you will have the omelet " charnue et doree " (fleshy and golden 
yellow), of which a French poet sings. 

This plain omelet you can diversify in very many ways, of 
which I mention a few to indicate how to do it. Make thus 
A variety of an omelet ciux fines herbes : Mince some parsley, 
omelets. tarragon, and shallots or parsley and cives 

and mix with your eggs. Or chop fine equal quantities of 
spinach, sorrel, parsley, chervil, and cives ; saute them for a 
few minutes in a little butter, let them get cool, and then 
add your eggs before making the omelet. For an omelet 
with bloaters, skin and take the bones out of a fine Yarmouth 



LETTER XX 167 

bloater ; cut the flesh in tiny dice. Mix it with some parsley 
and one shallot minced, which slightly saute beforehand in 
a little butter. Then moisten the whole with one tablespoonful 
of brown gravy, heat it up and place it in the middle of your 
omelet before turning it over. 

Here is an omelet with bacon : For four eggs take two 
ounces of breakfast bacon, cut it into small dice, saute it until 
light brown, and mix with your eggs before baking. And here 
is an omelet with tomatoes a la Proven<;ale : Take two middle- 
sized, very firm tomatoes, and cut them into dice. Put one 
teaspoonful of minced onion into a frying-pan in which you 
have heated one teaspoonful of butter and one of olive oil. 
As soon as the onion turns yellow, add the tomatoes. Cook 
them on a quick fire until their watery substance is somewhat 
reduced; then season them with salt and pepper, and lastly 
add a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, with a taste of garlic 
(the latter to be obtained by rubbing the board, on which the 
parsley is chopped, with the inside of a clove of garlic). Make 
an omelet of five eggs for the above. The recipe says to take 
olive oil for it, but in our country I prefer to take butter. Put 
the tomato in the middle of the omelet, and take care when 
you fold it that the rims are closed tightly. Serve it on an 
oval dish, with parsley or water-cress around. 

After you have mastered these different omelets, you will be 
able, with a little thought, to make any other kind you wish, 
only taking care that the ingredients blend. Such are : ham, 
kidneys, mushrooms (all cut into small dice), green peas, 
asparagus points, and others. All these, suitable for omelets, 
will do also for stirred (or scrambled) eggs. I prefer the 
latter to the former for every-day fare, because they are quicker 
done can, in fact, be cooked in a chafing-dish at table, where 
they are best, because served as soon as done. 

Stirred eggs also are more wholesome than omelet, which 
requires more butter to get it perfected, and does not permit 
the same creamy consistency of the egg all through 
it. This is the recipe for stirred eggs : Break the 
eggs into a bowl, add a little pinch of salt and a scant table- 



168 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

spoonful of milk for each egg. Give it two vigorous beats for 
each egg, with a spoon ; melt a little butter about the size 
of a small hazel-nut for each egg in a hot pan; pour in 
your eggs, and with a spoon loosen them from the bottom as 
soon as they begin to thicken ; do it only in one direction, 
toward the handle of the pan (which you hold with your left 
hand), and each time in another place. In this way your eggs 
turn out in large flakes, as they should. Remove them from the 
fire just before the eggs are all coagulated and while some liquid 
is left. Unless you catch- this very moment, your eggs will be 
either too soft or too hard for perfection. Whatever ingredi- 
ents you wish to add you mix with your eggs while raw ; or 
put them into the melted butter first, and then pour in the 

egg- 

A nice way to serve stirred eggs is to heap them in the 
middle of a platter, and garnish them all around with thin 
slices of smoked salmon, which have been dipped into melted 
butter and then allowed to saute slightly on a slow fire. 

After you have mastered the omelet, it will be easy for you 
to produce a nice, tender Roman fritata and wafer-like pan- 
A Roman cakes. Here are the recipes : For fritata, whisk 

five or six eggs until light ; add two tablespoonfuls 
of raw ham cut in small dice or chopped coarsely, some 
minced parsley, or parsley and cives. Pour the mixture into a 
hot pan, in which a good-sized piece of butter has been heated. 
Shake to prevent its sticking, and when slightly brown on one 
side, turn it with the help of a warm plate, and brown also on 
the other side. The fritata ought to be thick, not thin like a 
pancake ; the pan, therefore, must be of small circumference 
for the quantity given above. 

As for the pancakes, a small iron frying-pan is the best to 
bake them in. To make four or five pancakes, take half a pint 
of milk, three eggs, about four tablespoonfuls of flour, and a 
little salt. If the batter is too thin, add a little more flour. 
Whisk until light. Put a piece of butter the size of a walnut 
into your pan, and when quite hot, pour into it about a cupful 
of the batter. Shake it ; and from time to time lift it at the 



LETTER XX 169 

edges with the round point of a knife to prevent its sticking. 
When light brown on the lower side, give the cake a toss with 
the pan to fling it upside down, this is the correct 

. . Pancakes. 

way ; but as long as you have not practised it, you 
had better turn your cake with the help of a plate. Slip 
another little piece of butter about half the quantity as 
before under the turned cake and let it get light brown. 
Put it on a hot plate, and place it where it will keep hot. Put 
the other cakes on top of it as they are finished, and serve. 
If you wish your pancakes sweet, add a tablespoonful of sugar 
to the above quantity. This recipe is a first-rate one. You 
can make very good pancakes, however, by taking but one or 
two eggs for the same amount. I have even made them 
in winter with a few heaped tablespoonfuls of clean snow 
and no egg at all. They were pale, to be sure, but light 
and good. 

A very nice dish for breakfast or luncheon is the follow- 
ing : 

Pancakes Filled with Meat. Mix, for pancakes, three-quar- 
ters of a pint of flour, three eggs, two tablespoonfuls of olive 
oil (the very best), a little salt, one tablespoonful of brandy, 
and half milk, half water, to set a batter not too 

i f i 11 11 i /- Pancakes 

thin. After beating it well allow it to stand for fined with 
two or three hours. When baked let the pancakes 
get cold. Meanwhile take some remnants of any kind of meat 
(or of several kinds), chop them fine; mince one small onion 
(or a shallot), some parsley, and a little cives. Take a little 
piece of butter, heat it in a pan ; put in the onion first, and 
when it gets light brown, add the meat, parsley, and cives. 
Stir until hot. Allow this hash, too, to get cold. Then spread 
one or two tablespoonfuls of it on each pancake and roll it up 
so as to make it look like a sausage. Now heat some butter 
in a pan, put the rolled pancakes in, side by side, and brown 
them slowly all around. Do it only just before serving, allow- 
ing about fifteen to twenty minutes to saute them. They must 
be very hot when served. They are excellent with a tomato 
sauce, or even with plain stewed tomatoes. 



170 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

For a mere relish I can recommend the following : 
Farcied Eggs a la Fauvel. Boil eggs hard ; put them in 
cold water; they will shell better. Take them out before 
_ . , quite cold, and when shelled, cut off the tips in 

Farcied eggs. * . , , 

order to stand them up ; then cut them into 
halves, take out the still warm yolks ; mash them ; mix them 
with some oil, a very little vinegar, season with salt and 
pepper, add a taste of onion, and a little minced parsley. The 
mixture must be stiff and smooth. Fill it back into the whites 
and serve nicely garnished. I call them "Fauvel" after an 
American boy in England, who taught me this recipe. 

There is one combination that of eggs and cheese in 

favor of which I can merely say that it is a very 

About cheese. J J . . J 

palatable one. For, although rich in nutriments, 
as the following table will show you, it seems somehow to 
be in league with nightmares. 

ALBUM. CARBOH. FATS. WATER. MINERALS. 

Cheese, rich 25,0 2.2 29.0 39.2 4.6 

" middling rich . 27.2 1.5 23.7 43.2 4.4 

" least rich 30.0 5.1 13.4 46.5 5.0 

Although cheese is prized as a digester, it is equally certain 

that " cheese digests everything but itself." If, however, a kind 

is used which is neither too rich nor too poor (such 

A fondue. ^ 

as Parmesan, Gruyere, Chester, or our American 
imitation of the latter), and great care is taken to cook it no 
more than just to melt it, the dishes made partly of cheese 
may be partaken of with impunity by persons of tolerably good 
digestion. I give you a few recipes because your husband, 
like other men of intellect, may be fond of such piquant deli- 
cacies : For a fondue take three eggs, beat them well ; add 
two ounces of grated Gruyere, one ounce of melted butter, and 
one tablespoonful of cream. Pour the butter into the cream 
to cool it, before adding to the cheese and eggs. After it is 
well mixed, pour the whole into a china gratin-dish or into 
little paper boxes and put into a slow oven until of the 
firmness of custard. Serve immediately. 



LETTER XX 171 

This is not the famous fondu of Brillat-Savarin, which you 
find in most cook-books of modern date, but equally good if 
done with due care. 

To Toast Cheese. Take three eggs, a cupful of milk, and a 
teaspoonful of flour ; beat and mix well. Melt a small piece 
of butter in a skillet ; put in about two ounces of n 

Toasted cheese. 

cheese cut into thin slices ; pour the above mix- 
ture over it (it ought just to cover the cheese) and stir over a 
slow fire until the cheese is melted and the mixture has thick- 
ened. You can do this in a chafing-dish at the table, which 
will insure its success. In Chester County, Penn., I have eaten 
this dish mixed with "cottage cheese" (curds), instead of 
flour, which is a great improvement. In this case more of 
the cottage cheese and less of the real cheese is to be 
taken. 

For ramequins, put a tablespoonful of butter into a gratin- 
dish, then a layer of bread cut into thin slices ; on top of it 
put a layer of sliced cheese, and over the whole , 

. - , - Hamequms. 

pour a mixture of three eggs and a cupful of milk. 
Bake in the oven until light brown on top. It needs very little 
heat underneath and ought to brown in fifteen minutes. It is 
delicious if the oven is in the right condition. 

You would not wish me to continue, and give you all the 
543 different dishes made of eggs which Grimod invented, or 
tell you how J. J. Rousseau excelled in cooking eggs in various 
ways, nor of the dish of eggs the Duke of Soubise placed 
before Louis XV., which cost him 75 louts (for. I hear you 
say, " Oh, no, please do not." 

I might now leave you to your own devices altogether ; for I 
believe you are equipped sufficiently with material to furnish 
your table so as to please a capricious as well as a rational 
stomach, and at the same time provide what is needed to keep 
the physical and spiritual man alive and in good condition. 
But I have said nothing as yet of desserts, and although in my 
opinion fruit is the best dessert at all times, to which ices 
and cream may be added on special occasions, you do wish 
to know of, at least, a restricted number of light desserts. 



172 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

Some of them are quite wholesome. They also are the means 
of adding agreeably to the necessary variety in our daily 
food, and as such, as well as in an economical view, are 
even to be recommended. For to-day, however, I will not 
keep your attention any longer, but close this already too am- 
plified epistle. 



LETTER XXI 

Lo, as at English feasts, so I regreet 

The daintiest last, to make the end most sweet. 

SHAKESPEARE. 

IF I am opposed to pies and heavy puddings, it is principally 
for hygienic reasons. But, aside from this, I deem them 
wasteful, inasmuch as the outlay for their production far ex- 
ceeds the nourishment derived from them for the human sys- 
tem. To make good pies and all the old-fashioned English 
puddings, we need much butter, suet, raisins, almonds, and 
similar fruit, all of which is high-priced, and sure to tax one's 
digestive powers. And you know that only such food nour- 
ishes as is properly digested. It is different, however, with the 
lighter kinds of farinaceous food, and all the delightful trifles I 
comprise under the head of light desserts. To prepare them 
we use milk, eggs, cereals, and fresh fruit, all of them nourish- 
ing, pleasant to the palate, and easily digested. If any fat is 
needed for their production, it is butter, and not much of it. 
You will remember that in indicating to you the daily rations 
for adults, I mentioned Professor C. Voit's dictum, that the 
required 6.9 ounces of pure muscle (meat) can be Valuation of food . 
replaced by dairy produce and eggs. I would matters for light 
advise that, especially in hot summer weather, a 
more frequent use should be made of this sort of diet. To 
give you a comparative idea of the food-values you would thus 
deal with, I note down the following schedule : 



ALBUM. 

Eggs 12.5 

Milk (new) 3.4 

" (skimmed) 3.1 

Butter 0.6 



CARBOH. 


FATS. 


WATER - MATTERS. CELLULOSE. 


O.O 


I2.O 


74-5 


I.O 


0.0 


4.8 


3-6 


87.5 


0.7 


0.0 


4.8 


0.7 


90.7 


0.7 


o.o 


0.6 


83.3 


14-5 


I.O 


0.0 








173 





174 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

ALBUM. CARBOH. FATS. WATER. MATTE'RS CELLULOSE. 

Wheat flour. ... 10.5 72.5 1.5 14.5 i.o 0.5 

" bread . . 7.0 55.2 0.5 36.0 I.o 0.3 

Cornstarch i.o 83.6 15.0 0.4 

Farina li.O 71.5 1.5 15.0 0.5 0.5 

Rice 8.0 76.5 i.o 13.0 i.o 0.5 

Sugar 99.0 i.o 

Fruit (fresh) ... 0.5 lo.o 85.0 0.5 4.0 

" (dried)... 2.5 55.0 i.o 30.0 1.5 lo.o 

You will find some repetitions in the above, while other sub- 
stances are added to aid you in gaining a clearer valuation of 
The most eco- tne foods employed in the following recipes. I 
nomicai dessert. \) e g{ n w ith the simplest and at the same time 
the most economical of all desserts with a German recipe 
for Arme Ritter, poor knights, dating from the middle ages, 
when it sometimes was also called " Beggar-man." Let us sup- 
pose that since then it has gained by transformation ; but, at 
any rate, I never saw it go begging when placed on the family 
table. I make it when slices of stale bread have accumulated 
in the bread-box. I shape them as evenly as possible, and 
not larger than the palm of my hand. Then I place them side 
by side on some large platters, and pour over them a thin bat- 
ter consisting of milk, one egg, a pinch of salt, and a little flour, 
about a scant tablespoonful for a pint of milk, but no more 
than the bread will take up. This batter I beat with an egg- 
beater, and take one-half of it in which to soak the slices of 
bread for about half an hour ; then I turn the slices with the 
cake-lifter, and pour the rest of the batter over them. After 
another half-hour's soaking they are ready to be browned in a 
large frying-pan by means of a little butter over a brisk fire. 
The pan and butter must be hot before putting in the bread. 
Put in as many at a time as the pan will hold ; turn them 
as soon as they are of a golden brown underneath, and 
brown them on the other side as well, adding a little more 
butter. When done, heap them on a hot dish, dust some 
sugar over them, and serve with a fruit sauce or some stewed 
fruit. 



LETTER XXI 175 

Another simple dessert is pancakes. I have already given 
you a recipe for them in my last, when speaking about eggs. 1 
They may be served with powdered sugar and p an cakes; HOW 
lemons quartered, the juice to be eaten squeezed to serve them - 
on the sugared pancakes ; or with stewed fruit, as well as a 
fruit sauce ; or you may spread some fruit jelly or jam on each 
cake separately, and roll it up by means of a silver fork. You 
then serve them lying side by side. 

Some of the most delicate of desserts are made and served in 
cups. There are cups on purpose for them, but small coffee- 
cups will do instead. For a custard take as many Desserts served 
cupfuls of milk as you have cups to fill. Place in CU P S - 
the milk over a moderate fire, and when it begins to boil add 
for each cup a scanty tablespoonful of sugar and a few drops 
of almond essence. Take also one egg for each cup, beat 
light, and stir into the milk. Now fill your cups and place 
them into a bain-marie, i.e. in a shallow pan, which you fill 
with boiling water from the tea-kettle, up to three-quarters the 
height of the cups. Cover the pan with a second one, and 
leave it standing where the water keeps boiling moderately. 
When the surface of the mixture begins to thicken, which will 
be in about ten minutes, you quickly remove the pan from the 
fire and take the cups out of the water ; for, if the water is 
allowed to boil too rapidly or too long, the custards will be 
spoiled. Serve cold. 

For coffee crime in cups take three-quarters of a pint of 
milk, let it come to a boil, then pour into it two ounces of 
ground mocha. Cover up and put in a warm place, where it 
will draw not boil. Leave it there for about ten minutes, 
then strain, and add the yolks of five eggs beaten light before- 
hand, and two ounces of sugar. Beat the whole vigorously, 
fill into cups, and finish in the bain-marie. For chocolate 
creme take two and a half ounces of chocolate, one pint of 
milk, four eggs, and two and a half ounces of sugar. Let 
the chocolate dissolve in the hot milk, and proceed as before. 

1 See p. 168. 



176 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

When you happen to have saved the whites of three eggs, 
try this dessert, which I will call Mount Blanc : Take one pint 
Recipe for of milk and put it on to boil. Meanwhile beat 

Mount Blanc. y OUr three wn i tes to a st {ff snow g^ff- enough for 

a spoon to stand in it upright. 1 When the milk boils, add one 
ounce of sugar, some vanilla essence, and one and a half 
ounces of cornstarch dissolved in a little milk. Stir over the 
fire until large bubbles make their appearance. Remove from 
the fire, and mix into it the snow of the whites, not by stirring, 
which would undo it, but by mixing it from side to side. Fill 
into a mould previously dipped into cold water, and set away 
to get cold. Turn it out on a dish, and serve with either a 
fruit or a wine sauce. 

Here is a snow creme, quickly made : Take one pint of 

cream, the whites of two eggs, two tablespoonfuls of sweet 

Snow creme white wine (or one of arrack), sugar to taste, a 

pinch of grated lemon or orange peel, and beat 

the whole until stiff. Fill into glass cups or stem glasses. 

Another delicacy which you serve in glasses, is raspberry 
Raspberry foam f am - Take three tablespoonfuls of raspberry 
syrup or jelly, the whites of six eggs, and three 
tablespoonfuls of sugar. Beat with the egg-beater until quite 
stiff. Then fill into glasses and serve. This is sufficient for 
ten persons. 

In berry time you will find the following a very acceptable 
recipe : Take one pint of juice squeezed either from raspber- 

Recipe for a " CS Or IQ ^ Currants J a <ld four OUllCCS of SUgar, 

very delicate and water sufficient to make altogether one quart 
of liquid. Let it come to a boil, then stir into it 
one cupful of fine farina, soaked previously in cold water, the 
superfluous water being poured off. Stir well, to avoid lumps, 
and keep stirring until the farina is done (about five to ten 
minutes) . Fill into a mould dipped in cold water, and when 
cool set on ice. Serve with cream. If wanted particularly 
nice, fill into a ring mould, and when turned out heap some 

1 See p. 183. 



LETTER XXI 177 

whipped cream up in the centre. This recipe hails from Den- 
mark, where it is called Rodgrod, red groats. 

Some of the finest dessert dishes are made with the addition 
of whipped cream. In the cities it can be bought at the 
confectioners, but the best is always made at home. You 
need for it fresh cream, not over a day old. Put ., 

f j > Whipped cream, 

it in a large bowl or tureen, and set it on the ice and how to make 
for at least one hour. Then beat with an egg- 
whip, and as the foam forms remove it with a skimmer into a 
colander which has been placed over another bowl. Return the 
liquid cream which drops into the latter to the cream you whip, 
and continue in this way until all your cream has turned to 
foam. If the cream should not get as stiff as desirable, add to 
it a pinch of pulverized gum tragacanth bought at a reliable 
druggist's. It eases the whipping considerably, and does not 
detract from the taste of the cream. If you wish, you may 
now sweeten your whipped cream and flavor it. To do the 
latter there is vanilla, grated chocolate, fruit marmalade or 
jelly, fresh raspberries or strawberries, etc., which A dish of 
you mix with your cream by stirring gently, whipped cream 
Such flavored cream is a nice dessert in itself, 
when heaped up pyramid-like on a dish and served with fruit 
or cake. One pint of cream will make whips enough for six 
persons. A very pretty dish is obtained, for instance, in this 
way : Heap berries up in a crystal bowl, dust sugar over them 
freely, and then cover them up with sweetened whipped cream 
(take five ounces of sugar for one pint of cream). Put on the 
ice for one or two hours, and before serving garnish with a rim 
of extra large berries. 

To make a Russian crane you also need whipped cream. 
Take three tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar and two eggs. 
Put in a large bowl and stir for half an hour, Recipe for 
when it will be quite thick. Add one tablespoon- Russian cr * me ' 
ful of best brandy (or arrack), and one pint of whipped cream. 
Mix gently, and serve at once. This is enough for five or six 
persons. 

For a chocolate bavaroise (or creme) take one pint of milk, 



178 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

boil with half a pound of chocolate and a quarter of a pound 
of sugar. Flavor with vanilla. When cold acid one ounce of 
chocolate gelatine, which previously has been dissolved in 

bavaroiae. water. Whip until the mixture begins to stiffen, 

then add a pint or a little more of whipped cream, which stir 
into it lightly. Put on ice. 

As to gelatine, it is a pretty safe rule to take one cupful to 
one and a half of cold water for every ounce of gelatine. 

Proportions for ^ x tne two > anc ^ P ut m a warm place. Stir from 
the use of time to time until the gelatine is quite dissolved. 

For stiffening a pint of liquid you generally need 
a scant ounce of gelatine in summer, while during the cold 
season a little over half an ounce is sufficient. This rule 
applies especially to jellies. For a creme less will do. 

To vary, I will now give you a recipe for Russian rice. 
Take a quarter of a pound of rice. You will remember how to 

boil it, with all the seeds left whole, and yet 

Kussian rice. ' ' J 

tender. 1 When you have thus cooked it in water 
(no salt), put it on a sieve to get dry and cold. Then transfer 
it to a crystal dish. Take a quarter of a pound of sugar, 
moisten it with a gill of water, and boil it until a thickish sirup 
is obtained (about fifteen to twenty minutes). When some- 
what cool add to it a wineglassful of Jamaica rum, or arrack, 
and pour over the rice in the glass dish. Garnish with pre- 
served or canned fruit, peaches, apricots or cherries, or 
with different kinds of fruit. 

A very pretty dessert dish is a macedoine of fruit. You 
will very likely make it only when you expect invited guests. 

It will be then worth the trouble. You can do it 
ke a in different ways. Take either fresh, or canned, 



or preserved fruit ; and you may make it with a 
jelly or without. Anyway, take the prettiest fruit 
at your command, and of different colors. Stone the cherries, 
leave the berries whole, but cut the larger fruit into nice pieces, 
either in halves, quarters, or halved quarters. Put all your 

l See p. 85. 



LETTER XXI 179 

fruit into a deep dish, pour over it a bottle of a light white 
wine, and set aside. Now take half a pound of sugar, and 
cook with one glassful of water until it makes a thick sirup. 
If your fruit is fresh, drop it little by little into the boiling 
sirup, and let it simmer for a little while ; if canned or pre- 
served, drop it in after the sirup has been removed from the 
fire, and merely let it steep for a while. Then take out the 
fruit with a skimmer, put into a large bowl, pour over it the 
wine in which previously it has soaked, and finally add the 
sirup. Let stand for four hours, when put in a vessel filled 
with ice, to chill thoroughly, and when served add small pieces 
of ice to the macedoine. This is Mademoiselle Frangoise's 
recipe. 

I will give you another one made with jelly. Take three- 
quarters of a pound of sugar, and cook it with half a pint of 
water for fifteen minutes. Add the grated peel of three lemons, 
and their juice ; a pint and a half of California Marsala, and 
two ounces of gelatine. Put through a flannel bag until clear. 
Have a mould ready packed in ice, pour in some of the jelly ; 
when stiff, add a layer of fruit ; pour in some more jelly ; let it 
get stiff; add more fruit, and so on until all is used up. Finish 
with jelly, and turn out when ready to be served. If you 
take fresh fruit for this dish, do not cook it; if canned or 
preserved fruit, see that it is well drained of its juice. Save 
the latter, and use it, when you have occasion, for fruit sauces, 
jellies, etc. 

If made with preserved fruit, you might put as a first layer 
(after the jelly) some macaroons, as a second some candied 
orange peel arranged in a star-like pattern, and as a third layer 
slices of quince or any other dark red fruit. 

It will take some time before you have tried all these 
recipes. If you are successful, you will be able hereafter to 
avail yourself of any other recipe which may strike your 
fancy. A little practice is all you need. I will add now 
merely a few more recipes for baked puddings of a light kind. 

This apple pudding is exceedingly delicate : Peel, core, 
and quarter some tart apples. Boil them with a little water 



180 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

until soft. Mash them with a spoon, and take as much of 
them as will make a quarter of a pound. Add the same 
A light apple weight of butter and sugar while still hot. Then, 
puddmg. after it gets cool, mix with it three eggs beaten to 

a foam, and the grated peel of one lemon. Butter a pudding- 
form, dust it over with powdered sugar, and fill into it your 
mixture. The form must be high enough to allow the rising of 
the pudding. Bake in a quick oven for about half an hour. 
Try by inserting a straw (or a wooden toothpick) into the 
centre. If nothing attaches to it when pulled out, the baking 
is done. Remember this for other occasions. Serve at once. 

For a white of egg pudding take four whites and beat them 
to a stiff snow. Now mix two tablespoonfuls of apricot (or 
White of egg some other) marmalade with an ounce and a half 
pudding. O f SU gar, and add it carefully to the snow. Fill 

the whole into a buttered china dish, and bake in a slow oven 
for about half an hour. Serve immediately in the dish baked in. 

For a simple custard pudding take one pint of milk, stir 
into it gradually one tablespoonful of flour, the yolks of six 

Custard pudding. C ^ S beatCn l *& ht > SU ^ T tO taStC > E flavoring of 

vanilla or lemon, and a teaspoonful of brandy. 
Finally mix with it a teaspoonful of melted butter (which may 
be warm, but must not be hot), and pour into a buttered dish. 
Bake in a moderately hot oven. 

A lemon pudding also is a simple affair. Take for it a quar- 
ter of a pound of sugar, and mix with the yolks of five eggs, 

stirring continually. When quite foamy add 

Lemon pudding. * * J 

quickly the juice ot one lemon, and then the 
whites of the eggs, beaten to a stiff snow. Put into a buttered 
form, which it must not fill any more than three-quarters, since 
the mixture will rise considerably. Bake about fifteen to 
twenty minutes, and serve at once. 

Finally, I give you this recipe for a rice pudding: Take a 
quarter of a pound of rice, and boil it in a pint of milk until 
thick. Meanwhile beat half a pound of butter to a cream, 1 

1 See p. 183. 



LETTER XXI 181 

add one by one the yolks of eight eggs, a quarter of a pound 
of sugar, the grated peel of half a lemon, and last of all the rice, 
which must be cold. When thoroughly mixed, 

* ' Rice pudding. 

add the whites of the eggs beaten to a snow. 
Bake in a buttered form, and turn out on a cake- plate. Serve 
warm with a fruit sauce. This is a very nice pudding. It may 
also be made of farina instead of rice. 

I must not close this letter before giving you a few recipes 
for the sauces mentioned. For a wine sauce, take one whole 
ecrg and the yolks of two. a heaped teaspoonful , 

J A wine sauce. 

of flour, two ounces of sugar, and half a pint of 

white wine. Beat with an egg-whip over the fire until just 

before the point of boiling. Serve hot or cold, as you please. 

A very simple sauce is made by first sweetening some cream, 
then adding the juice of a lemon, which will thicken the cream. 

For fruit sauces, the easiest way is to take home-made fruit 
sirup, and thin it with cold water. Or, if the sauce is to be 
hot, thin the sirup first with water, and when it , 

^ r ^ r Frult SauCeS - 

comes to a boil add a teaspoonful of cornstarch 

dissolved in water. Stir while boiling until the cornstarch is 

done, which will be in two or three minutes. 

This last recipe for a claret sauce is excellent : Take one 
tablespoonful of powdered sugar, as much of C|aret oauce 
raspberry or currant jelly, and one glassful of 
claret. Stir until it slightly thickens. But do not put it on the 
fire. 

From the almost endless number of nice recipes for light 
desserts, I have chosen for you what I consider easy for a be- 
ginner, and withal good and wholesome. May it give you as 
much pleasure to carry out these recipes as it gave me pleasure 
to write them down. 



LETTER XXII 

Wouldst thou both eat thy cake and have it ? 

SHAKESPEARE. 

ONE thing brings forth another. Therefore, when I made 
up my mind to teach you some simple desserts, I as 
much as bound myself to add a lesson about cakes, since 
some of the former do seem to call for some kind of cake to 
complete the course. It is also, in fact, a great convenience 
for a hospitably inclined housewife to have cake ready at all 
hours. If put in a porcelain crock well covered, or in a tin 
box, cake of all sorts will keep for days and weeks, and is 
always at hand to be offered to unexpected guests, or ready for 
any other emergency. To produce good cake is, however, an 
art by itself, and not so easy as people generally suppose. But 
if you set about to do it methodically, and are observant of 
certain strict rules, there is no reason why you should not in 
time excel in it as well as in the other culinary branches. 
Only do not devote to the baking of cakes any more time than 
is necessary to keep yourself reasonably well supplied. For 
cake, as your judgment will tell you after all my teachings, is 
not actual food ; it is merely one of those pleasant auxiliaries 
by which we bring variety into the routine of our indispensable 
fare. 

As to the rules, the flour to be used must be the finest and 
best. See that it is dry, and yet not so dry as to make it 
Rules for baking seem like dust when taken up in your hand and 
cake - allowed to sift through your fingers. Flour, if 

kept in a damp place, or a warm one, will spoil easily, and thus 
be unfit to use. Get the other ingredients also of the purest 
and best. Your sugar likewise has to be dry and well pow- 
dered ; your butter must be the freshest, and if too much 
182 



LETTER XXH 183 

salted will have to be worked over in cold water, in order to 
sweeten it. Break each egg separately into a cup before using 
it, so as to test its freshness. Be careful in breaking eggs and 
separating the yolks and whites, for any particle of the former 
mixed with the latter will prevent these from getting stiff when 
whipped. To whip the whites to a snow, put them into a deep 
bowl or, better still, into an open-mouthed pitcher. By then 
using an egg-beater and plying it without stopping, a stiff snow 
will readily form. Test its stiffness by introducing a table- 
spoon : if it will stand up by itself, your snow is just right. 
Do not touch it again until mixed into the cake batter. It is 
better to have one person stir the batter, and another whip the 
whites, and have the snow done the minute it is wanted. But 
if this is impracticable, whip your snow before you stir your 
batter, and set it in a basin of cold water to keep. When a 
recipe tells you to beat butter to a cream, do as follows : 
Weigh your butter first, then put it in the dish in which your 
cake is to be stirred. Place it near the stove for about an 
hour beforehand to get soft, but do not let it melt. Use a flat 
wooden spoon with a long handle for stirring, and do it vigor- 
ously in one and the same direction, until the butter is white 
and foamy. When adding eggs, let them have about the same 
temperature as the butter, or the latter might curdle. To fur- 
ther avoid this, add one egg at a time, alternating with a spoon- 
ful of sugar, and mix thoroughly before adding the next. Beat 
all cake batter in one direction, and with uniform alacrity. 
Your success depends a good deal on this. The snow of the 
whites is not added until the last moment. Do not stir it in, 
but mix from the sides of the vessel toward the middle by gen- 
tle strokes. The batter when finished must be baked at once. 
Another important factor in baking is the fire. It ought to be 
looked after at least an hour beforehand, and be in such a 
condition as to need no handling during the time of baking. 
Most cakes need a moderately hot oven, and some even a 
cool one. A good old test is, to put a piece of thick paper 
into the oven, to shut the door, and open it again after five 
minutes. If the paper is light brown, the oven is moderately 



184 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

hot ; and if yellow, the oven is cool. Now, as to forms for bak- 
ing, it is advisable to have one or, better, two sheet-iron pans 
with low rims, just fitting into your oven, for small cakes either 
to be put directly upon them or for holding a number of small 
cake moulds ; besides, to have a round tin form with a 
straight rim an inch to an inch and a half high, and another 
one with a rim as high as your forefinger. Lastly, have one of 
copper (or tin) fluted and turban-shaped. Your forms must 
be kept immaculately clean, perfectly dry, and, to receive the 
cake batter, must be well buttered inside and dusted over 
either with cracker-dust or powdered sugar, except when 
directed otherwise. For buttering the form, I first melt a 
little butter, then I use a soft painter's brush (kept for this sole 
purpose) to give the form a coating of the butter. Get ready 
your form (or forms) before beginning with the cake, so as to 
have no delay when the latter is to be baked. After the bak- 
ing is done, do not turn out your cake until it has stood a while 
to cool off, or it might not come out unharmed. Even when 
turned out, do not let it get cold all at once, for fear it might 
settle down. Keep all these rules in your mind, for I shall not 
reiterate them. 

The recipes I have selected for your benefit are mostly old 
and tried ones, handed down in the family for generations. 
They are the most wholesome, too, as far as cake goes. The 
first, a very simple one, is associated with mother's and grand- 
mother's cake-box, readily opened to the sesame of bright eyes 
begging and little chubby hands outstretched. I will call the 
German drop recipe German drop cakes. Take half a pound 
cakes - of sugar, half a pound of flour, two eggs, and the 

yolks of another two. Beat sugar and eggs together for half an 
hour, then add the flour, and stir until thoroughly mixed. In- 
stead of all wheat flour, you may take half and half wheat flour 
and cornstarch, which will make the cakes somewhat more deli- 
cate. Have ready a sheet-iron pan, give it a very thin coating 
of butter, and from a teaspoon drop upon it little heaps of 
batter. Have sufficient space between them, for they will run 
and get, at least, double the original size. Bake in a slow 



LETTER XXII 185 

oven in about half an hour. They must not get brown, but 
look a pale yellow. Loosen them with the blade of a knife 
after they have somewhat cooled off, and let them get quite 
cold on a platter before removing them to the cake-box. They 
will keep for a month. 

Another cake which may be kept for a long time is Israel 
cake. Take for it half a pound of butter, half a pound of 
sugar, half an ounce of cornstarch, three-quarters |srae| cake 
of a pound of wheat flour (both good weight), and 
three eggs. Beat the butter to a cream, add eggs and sugar, 
and the flour at the very last. Stir for half an hour. The batter 
ought to be rather stiff. Butter a shallow pan ; fill into it the 
batter, which smooth evenly with the blade of a knife, then 
dust over it some sugar, and, if you wish it, some almonds cut 
into fine shreds. Bake in a slow oven for about half an hour. 
The cake must be of a light yellow. Cut it into squares, or 
strips an inch and a half by three inches, while warm. 

A plain cake made very quickly is called Jenny Lind cake. 
The reason why it was called after the great singer is not evi- 
dent to me. That it should have been because Jenny Und cakg 
she was plain of features, I am not willing to be- 
lieve ; let us rather suppose that her sweet and simple nature 
suggested it. Take for this cake, two cups of flour, one and a 
half of sugar, a half a cup of butter, one of cream, two eggs, 
one teaspoonful of baking powder. Mix the latter with the 
flour. Beat the butter to a cream, and add the rest in quick 
succession. Stir until light, and bake in a deep form, and in a 
hot oven for about half an hour. 

This latter cake would be much more deserving the name 
of the following, called Lightning cake. Take a quarter of 
a pound of butter ; beat to a cream ; add one Lightning cake> 
after the other a quarter-pound of sugar, the yolks 
of three eggs, a quarter-pound of flour, a flavoring of lemon 
peel, and the stiff snow of the whites of three eggs. Put into 
a round form and bake a quarter of an hour. When cold, 
powder sugar over the cake, and ornament it with preserved 
fruit. Or cover it with icing, of which later. You also may 



186 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

bake two such cakes, place one on top of the other, and spread 
jelly or marmalade between. A little later I will give you the 
recipe of another layer cake ; but first I wish to make you 
acquainted with a most excellent sponge cake and a sand 
cake, so called from its fine crumbly texture. 

For Sponge cake take half a pound of sugar, the yolks of ten 

eggs, and stir for half an hour. Add the grated peel of half a 

lemon (or any other flavoring), and a quarter of 

Sponge cake. \ * 

a pound of cornstarch, and lastly the stiff snow 
of five eggs. Bake in a high form in a moderately hot oven, 
for from half to three-quarters of an hour. The top must feel 
firm and dry to the touch. 

For Sand cake, which will keep in good condition for many 
days, take half a pound of butter ; beat to a cream, when add 

Sand cake ^ Y ^ 8 f ^ ve e gg s an & na lf a pound of SUgaF. 

Stir for half an hour, and then add gradually half 
a pound of cornstarch, one sherry-glassful of Jamaica rum, the 
grated peel of half a lemon, and lastly the stiff snow of three 
eggs. Bake like the sponge cake. It is best made a couple 
of days before cutting it. 

This Chocolate cake also is very good : Take a quarter of 

a pound of butter, beat to a cream, add the yolks of six eggs, 

a half a pound of sugar, and stir for half an hour. 

Chocolate cake. 

Then add a quarter of a pound of grated choco- 
late, two tablespoonfuls of cocoa powder, some vanilla flavoring, 
four scant ounces of cornstarch, and at last the stiff snow of 
the six whites of egg. Bake in a form like the preceding 
cakes, but have the oven hot. It will take about three-quarters 
of an hour before it is done. 

Now for the layer cake, which I deem an extra good one. 
Its name is Vienna cake. Take for it one pound of butter, 
Vienna cake beaten to SL cream, the yolks of seven eggs, and 
seven whole eggs. Add one yolk and one whole 
egg at a time, and after all are mixed in, add gradually one 
pound of sugar. Stir for half an hour, then add one pound of 
the finest possible wheat flour, and the grated peel of one 
lemon. This cake requires a hot oven. Baked in a large, 



LETTER XXII 187 

round, and shallow form, it will make four to five layers, each 
baked separately until of a light brown. You might, however, 
divide the above amount of batter into six or eight smaller 
layers (for which of course smaller forms are required two 
being put in the oven at one time), and thus make two layer 
cakes with different filling and icing for each. After the layers 
are cold, trim them so as to fit nicely one on top of the other, 
and if too much browned in places, shave off what is objec- 
tionable. Now spread a thin layer of fruit jelly or marma- 
lade (raspberry is the nicest), or some other kind of filling, 
between each layer of cake, and finish the top with icing. 
Spread it evenly over the entire outside of the cake, except, of 
course, its bottom. You are now no longer bound by strict 
rules, weights, and measures. Your fancy comes into play to 
select, decorate, and even invent. You may make a cake fill- 
ing of any of the whipped creams I have indicated to you in 
my last letter. Or you may use for it the cremes I gave you 
the recipes for, adding, perhaps, a little gelatine to prevent 
their running. But, mind you, the creams will not keep any 
longer than a day or two. After that they will get sour. 
You might also take some of the icing you mean to use and 
fill your cake with it. I will speak about icings presently, 
but wish to give you first the recipes for two particularly nice 
fillings. 

The first is a Nut filling : Take two ounces of sugar, and 
make a boiled sirup of it with three tablespoonfuls of water, 
to which add three ounces of walnuts (or hazel- Two n j ce ca |< e 
nuts), peeled and pounded fine in a mortar, with fillin g s - 
the addition of a tablespoonful of cream. Add half a tea- 
spoonful of vanilla essence, and one ounce of candied orange 
peel minced. Stir until thick. 

The second is an Orange filling, for which take the peel of 
one orange, cut off very thin and soak it in the juice squeezed 
from the orange for fifteen minutes. Remove the peel, and add 
the juice to two ounces of sugar; add the yolks of two eggs, 
beaten to a foam. Add also one teaspoonful of flour, and 
one gill of white wine. Stir the whole over the fire until it 



188 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

thickens. Then let get somewhat cool, and mix with it the 
stiff snow of one white of egg. 

A simple icing is made by taking two ounces of powdered 
sugar and one white of egg, stirring both together for fifteen 
Cake icings and minutes. Add either lemon, orange, or any 
ornamenting. other kind of fruit juice, according to your 
fancy. When done, spread it over your cake in a thin 
sheet, and put in a place where it will dry. A Chocolate icing is 
easiest made thus : Take a quarter of a pound of chocolate, 
break up, and soften in a warm place ; mix with two ounces 
of sugar and, stirring well, gradually add the whites of two 
eggs. 

To ornament your cakes after they are iced, you take one 
or more kinds of preserved or candied fruit, arrange them in 
patterns, with leaves cut out of candied citron or orange rind. 
Add, if you will go to that extent, some beading and 
arabesquing of icing (of a different color if you prefer) by 
putting a teaspoonful at a time into a funnel-shaped paper bag, 
with an opening about as large as a pinhead. 

To make the most of my remaining space, I now give you 
in quick succession a number of recipes of small cakes and 
Small cakes or tidbits, which you may ornament likewise as 
tarts< your fancy leads you. First of all I will mention 

that you may use the recipes for sponge and sand cakes 
to make pretty little tarts, baked in small tin or copper 
moulds, which come with raised patterns. The only difference 
I would counsel is, to take all the whites for the snow, instead 
of part of them. It will make the tarts lighter. For that 
reason you must be particular not to fill the moulds more than 
three-quarters full. After turning out the tarts, ice them, and 
dust over them, before the icing hardens, some chopped pista- 
chio-nuts (or almonds). This is merely in the way of a sug- 
gestion. 

For Chocolate tarts take a quarter of a pound of sugar, an 
ounce and a half of grated chocolate, and the yolks of six 
eggs. Stir for a quarter of an hour; add three ounces of 
cornstarch and the whites beaten to a snow. 



LETTER XXII 189 

Portuguese Drop Cake. Take butter, eggs, sugar, and 
flour, of equal weight. Beat the butter to a cream, add the 
eggs, sugar, and flour. Stir for half an hour, and drop in little 
heaps size of a walnut on a sheet-iron pan, which previously 
you slightly dust over with flour. Then take a preserved 
cherry for each drop cake, place it in the centre, and press 
down far enough to fix it in its place. Bake in a moderately 
hot oven. 

Sugar Wafers. Take sugar the weight of two eggs, and 
flour the weight of one egg. Stir the sugar with the addition 
of three eggs for a quarter of an hour, then add the flour and 
half a teaspoonful of minced orange peel, or candied orange 
flowers. Put in little heaps on a very thinly buttered sheet- 
iron pan, three inches apart. Dust them over with granulated 
sugar, and bake in a moderately hot oven. Remove them from 
the pan while hot, and bend them over a rounded stick in the 
shape of a scroll. Or shape them like a cornucopia and fill 
with whipped cream just before serving. 

To make Macaroons take half a pound of blanched and 
skinned almonds, of which five or six may be bitter. Pound 
them to a paste in a mortar with the addition 
of the whites of three eggs. Add to this paste 
ten ounces of sugar, and stir for a quarter of an hour. Put 
in little round or oblong heaps on a sheet of white paper dusted 
over with flour. Dust granulated sugar over them, and bake 
in a slow oven. 

Filets de Vent. Take six ounces of sugar, the white of one 
egg, the grated peel of half a lemon (or some vanilla flavor- 
ing), and stir until like a thick icing. Bake in little heaps on 
paper, and in a slow oven. 

Kisses. Take one tablespoonful of sugar to every white 
of one egg ; flavor with cinnamon, vanilla, lemon, or whatever 
you choose. Beat with a spoon until quite light. Drop in tiny 
heaps on a sheet of white paper, and bake in a very cool oven. 
They must not brown, but get hard on top. 

Meringues. Proceed in the same way, with this difference : 
beat the whites to a stiff snow first, then add the sugar little by 



190 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

little. Put oval heaps the size of half an egg on paper. 
Have a board underneath the paper, and place both board and 
paper into a very slow oven to bake the meringues. After 
they get glazed on top, which will be in about twenty-five to 
thirty minutes, remove them from the paper, and if not hollow 
inside, take out from below what is soft with a teaspoon. Fill 
the space left with fruit jelly, or whipped cream flavored. 
Put two and two together, and serve. 

Little bits of cake or confectionery are called bouchees (mouth- 
fuls). They make a nice show and are not difficult to get up. 
Especially, if you should happen to have some 
remnants of sand cake, or any other kind of a rather 
solid texture. Cut them into slices three-quarters of an inch 
thick, spread with marmalade or some other filling, place two 
and two together, cut into pieces about an inch and a half 
square, or into lozenges, and cover over with icing. Dust 
minced pistachio-nuts, almonds, or candied orange peel on 
top, or garnish in some other way. 

For bouchees of another kind take the yolks of three eggs, add 
seven teaspoonfuls of sugar, and three heaped tablespoonfuls of 
flour. Stir until foamy, then add the snow of the three whites. 
Rub flour over a baking-board and roll out to a thin sheet. 
Rub flour also over the rolling-pin you use. Then take a sherry 
glass, dip it into flour, and cut out round pieces, which you bake 
on buttered paper. Place two and two upon each other, with 
a filling between, and cover with a thick chocolate icing. Or 
fill with raspberry jelly, and cover with icing made with rasp- 
berry sirup thickened by mixing with sugar sirup. Dip the 
bouchees into it, and put in the oven for about two minutes to 
dry. 

I would count candied fruit also as bouchees. It is easily made, 
and, both by itself as well as for ornamenting, is a great delicacy 
HOW to candy f r those who like sweets. But you understand 
fruit - that all this is a luxury, in which to indulge only 

occasionally. Take any kind of fresh fruit, divide those which 
are too large into halves, and boil in water until tender. Drain, 
and make a sirup a pint of water to a pound of sugar which 



LETTER XXII 191 

boil until by dipping a wooden skewer into cold water, then into 
the boiling sirup and back again into the cold water, you can 
whirl the sirup sticking to the skewer into a globule, which will 
crack in breaking off. In this sirup you drop your fruit, allow- 
ing it to boil up a few times. Then remove from the fire, and let 
the fruit remain in the sirup for twenty-four hours, when place 
the fruit side by side on a wide colander by means of a skim- 
mer. Dust powdered sugar over it, and set the colander in a 
lukewarm oven over night. When dry, the fruit is done. For 
nuts, oranges, and chestnuts, you do somewhat differently. The 
oranges you divide into sections, the walnuts you cut into halves, 
the chestnuts you boil and peel ; and one like the other you 
merely immerse into the sirup described, then take them out 
again, and put aside for the sugar to dry. 

To candy orange peel, take the whole thickness. Cut into 
even sections before peeling ; boil in water until tender, then 
put into cold water, and let it remain in it for two or candied orange 
three hours. Drain, and for each half a pound of peel< 
peel take ten ounces of sugar. Add water to the latter, and 
boil for about five minutes, then pour over the peel, and let 
stand over night. On the following day boil peel and sirup 
until the former gets transparent, and the latter thick. Remove 
the peel on to some paper, and let it get dry. You may also 
put it into glass jars, pour the sirup over it, and keep it tied up. 
In any case, save the sirup ; it will do you good service for one 
thing or another. 

Will this do for you? There are hundreds more of nice 
recipes for cakes and sweetmeats, but too much of a good thing 
is merely embarrassing. Therefore I close this subject. 



LETTER XXIII 

O, 'tis most sweet. 

SHAKESPEARE. 

IN the last two letters I made mention more than once of 
preserves, especially jellies, marmalades, and sirup, neces- 
sary for carrying out certain recipes for cake and light desserts. 
I deem it good policy to have a store laid in of those pre- 
serves, each kind in its season, and home-made. It is done 
with comparatively little expense, and, moreover, they are far 
better than those bought at the dealers'. I will give you here 
a restricted number of recipes for putting up fruit ; as many 
as I think you will need for the present. They are recipes 
well-tried many a time over. First of all, however, I have to 
Rules for putting en J oin on y ou the following precepts : For putting 
up stores of ' up any kind of stores, be sure that the strictest 

preserves. IT -i 

cleanliness prevails in regard to the food you 
use, as well as to everything coming in contact with it. The 
more rigidly this rule is carried out, the more certain you 
will be to exclude all germs disastrous to your complete suc- 
cess. See that your preserving-kettle be porcelain-lined, and 
never used for any other purpose. Your skimmer also ought 
to be of porcelain, and the spoon you use of shining silver. 
Whatever it is you put up must be of the freshest and best. 
Cleanse it carefully, and drain it well after washing in cold 
water. The sugar also must be. the best and purest, and if 
vinegar is used, buy only prime cider vinegar which is neither 
too mild nor too strong. If a recipe calls for sirup in which 
to cook the fruit, you prepare it by putting a pint of water to 
every pound of sugar into your preserving-kettle. Put it on 
the fire and, stirring from time to time, let it come to a boil. 
Take off the scum that rises, and continue to do so until your 
sugar is clear, when it will be ready for further use. 
192 



LETTER XXIII 193 

Have your glassware for receiving your preserves ready at 
hand when they are done. It also will have to be scrupulously 
clean, and dry at the same time. I put my glass jars or jelly- 
glasses in a place where they will get thoroughly hot, and fit to 
receive the boiling fruit, when intended to be put up air-tight. 
You must make sure, however, that no draft of cool air 
strikes the glass, or it will crack in spite of former care. Wipe 
the edges of it clean with a towel dipped into hot water ; then 
secure the lids to keep out the air, and after the glass gets cool 
tighten the screws once more. 

The first of all fresh fruit are strawberries, but they are diffi- 
cult to preserve on account of their volatile aroma, which 
makes them so delicious when eaten fresh from the vines. 
They are not the fruit for you to waste time and money on. 
When cherries come, however, get some of the Sour cherries put 
dark, sour kind, and put them up air-tight. They U P *"-*** 
are delicious as a compote in winter, and far more whole- 
some than fruit put up in the over-sweet, old-fashioned 
way. Stone your fruit, then weigh it, and for every pound of 
it take half a pound of sugar. Put both together into your 
kettle, and place over a moderate fire. Let boil for about 
twenty minutes, stirring from time to time, and taking off the 
scum which rises. If you have more juice than needed for 
filling your jars with fruit, add to every pint of juice which is 
left half a pound more of sugar ; boil it for a minute or two 
longer, and fill into bottles, which seal up. It makes an excel- 
lent pudding sauce, and will do for some desserts, when fruit 
sirup is mentioned. 

To put up blackhearts I can recommend the following : 
Take them whole, merely removing the stems, and for every 
three pounds of cherries take one pound of sugar eiackhearts put 
and one cupful of vinegar. When boiling, watch U P air - t! g ht - 
the cherries, and just as soon as they get tender, which will be 
in about ten or fifteen minutes, take them off the fire, skim, 
and fill them hot into air-tight jars. They ought to look plump 
and natural. They are delicious for use in winter. You can 
put up plums the same way, if they are fully ripe. If you wish 



194 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

them perfect, you peel them before cooking. By pouring boil- 
ing water over the plums, and letting them remain in it until 
you can bear your hand in the water, the skins will peel off 
without much trouble. 

After cherry time we have raspberries, blackberries, and cur- 
rants to gather in for future use. The following recipe is 
Raspberry and equally good for raspberry and for blackberry 
blackberry jam. j am . r f a k e three-quarters of a pound of sugar 
for every pound of berries. Put over a slow fire, and allow to 
boil for twenty minutes from the time boiling commences. 
Fill hot into air-tight jars. The raspberry jam is improved by 
taking part currants, one-third of the latter and two-thirds of 
raspberries. 

To make raspberry sirup squeeze the berries through a nap- 
kin until all the juice is extracted. Boil the latter for fifteen 
HOW to make minutes, skimming continually, and then add one 
raspberry sirup, pound of sugar for every pint of juice. Let boil 
up once with the sugar, and take off the fire. Fill into bottles, 
cork up, and seal. This sirup retains all the flavor of the ber- 
ries, and is delicious as a beverage, mixed with water, and for 
cooking purposes. For jelly you proceed in the 
berries, bS' same way, except that you allow the juice to boil 
cuSs and f r frdty two mm utes longer after the sugar has been 
added. Fill in jelly-glasses ; cover them loosely 
with sheets of white paper, and let the jelly get firm. Then cut 
round pieces of white paper to fit into the apertures of the 
glasses. Moisten these pieces with brandy, and place directly 
over the jelly. Finally, paste white paper over the tops of the 
glasses, and your jelly is ready to store away. Blackberry jelly, 
which is very good and wholesome, is made in the same way. 
For currant jelly I can recommend this recipe : Squeeze all the 
juice out of some red currants, and for every pint of it take 
one pound of sugar. Choose the best granulated, and pound 
it in a mortar to a powder. Pass it through the finest sieve 
you can procure, so as to be quite sure that no coarse particles 
remain. Then put the sugar in a deep porcelain bowl, and 
into a heated oven to get dry and hot, but not so hot as 



LETTER XXIII 195 

to melt. When quite hot, take it out and, while stirring the 
sugar incessantly, pour your juice into it by degrees, a small 
quantity at a time. As soon as the juice is all absorbed and 
the sugar entirely dissolved, the jelly will be ready to fill into 
glasses, and to be put away. If done carefully this jelly sur- 
passes every other kind in color and flavor. It will keep as 
long as three years. I will mention here that it is a good plan 
to mark all your preserves with your name, what kind it is, and 
the date, especially the latter. 

When peaches make their appearance in plenty, I counsel 
you to buy several basketfuls at a time, and select the most 
perfect ones for putting up " fresh," while of the H ow to put up 
specky or inferior ones you make a thin marma- P eaches - 
lade, or rather a compote, for which I have my own recipe. 
Free the peaches of their skins and stones. The perfect ones 
you cut into halves, and make a sirup for them. To every 
pound of fruit you take one-quarter of a pound of sugar, and 
to every pound of the latter a very scanty pint of water. 
After the sirup is clear, drop into the boiling liquid your halves 
of peaches, and allow them to boil up just once. Then remove 
the kettle from the fire, and as quickly as possible drop your 
fruit, piece by piece, into your hot jars, fill them up with the 
sirup, and screw the lids down on them. Peaches done in 
this way will have almost the full aroma of the fresh fruit, when 
opened in winter. The same is the case with finely flavored 
pears, which I peel, cut into halves, take out the cores, but 
let the stems remain on the corresponding halves. Then I 
proceed in the same manner as stated in regard to peaches. 
I have done even cantelope in this way with success. 

For the peach marmalade you proceed thus : After your 
fruit is peeled and stoned you cut it into small pieces, which 
may be as irregular as you please. Then weigh it, and for 
every pound of it take one-quarter of a pound of sugar, pro- 
vided the peaches are fully ripe. If not, take two ounces more 
of sugar for each pound of fruit. Put the latter into a tureen 
and mix it with your sugar. Put in a cool place until the next 
day. Open four peach stones out of every dozen stones you 



196 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

have taken from your fruit, and take out the kernels. Free 
them of their brown skins, which you can do easily after hav- 
ing scalded them with boiling water. Keep the kernels until 
you put your sugared peaches over the fire next morning. 
Then add them to the peaches, which will have plenty of juice 
of their own by this time. Boil them over a moderate fire for 
twenty minutes, stirring and skimming frequently. Fill into 
air-tight jars. This mild preserve has never failed to find 
favor when placed on my table. 

I add a first-rate recipe for brandy peaches, of which you 
might do well to put up a half-gallon jarful. Accompanied 
A recipe for by ice-cream they furnish you with a choice des- 
brandy peaches. sert course f or a ii tt i e dinner party. Take fruit 
which is fully ripe, and yet firm and speckless. Pour boiling 
water over it, and leave it covered over for a few minutes. 
Then take out one peach after another, and with a clean crash 
towel rub as much of the skin off as you can without seriously 
breaking it. Have ready some large, open-mouthed glass jars, 
fill them with your peaches, sprinkling granulated sugar over 
them sufficient to cover them slightly. Put a thick sprinkling 
of sugar on top, and then fill the jars up with the best white 
California brandy. Screw up air-tight, and set away. 

Tedious as it is to put up quinces, I consider them fully 
worth the trouble they cause, and would advise you to try the 
following way of making a fine preserve of sliced quinces, a 
jelly, and a stiff marmalade, all out of the same fruit at the same 
HOW to preserve time. Peel your quinces, quarter and core them, 
quinces. keing careful to save the seeds. Take all the 

perfect parts and divide in even slices. Make a sirup, taking 
equal parts of sugar and fruit, and when ready drop into the 
boiling liquid the sliced quinces. Cook slowly, and skim well. 
When the quinces turn red and look clear, they are done. 
Remove them with a skimmer, and put into jars. Boil the 
sirup until thick, and almost like a jelly, when pour over the 
fruit, and screw up the jars. Some add a lemon sliced thin, 
and freed from all seeds, to the quinces as soon as they begin 
to turn red. This is a matter of taste. While the slices are 



LETTER XXIII 197 

cooking, take a second kettle or pan, put into it the parings, 
cores, and seeds, add water sufficient to cover them. When 
perfectly soft strain through a clean napkin. Meanwhile cut 
up all remaining imperfect parts of your quinces into small 
pieces, and when your kettle is empty put them in, add the 
liquor drained from cores and parings, and cook until quite 
soft. Drain again, mash the quince through a sieve, weigh it, 
and put once more into your kettle. Add sugar, three-quarters 
of a pound to a pound of the quince, and a cupful of the 
drained liquor for every pound of fruit. Boil until thick, stir- 
ring pretty much all the time to prevent scorching. Fill into 
cups and glasses. It will turn out firm, and, eaten with cream, 
is delicious. Now have your kettle cleaned, in order to make 
your jelly. Take the remaining liquor from parings, etc., and 
for every pint of it add one pound of sugar. Boil, skimming 
frequently, until it jellies. Test it by letting a drop from your 
spoon fall on a cold plate. If it turns into jelly remove your 
kettle from the fire at once. Quinces jelly easily ; be careful, 
therefore, to watch the right moment, lest your jelly should 
turn to sirup. 

I believe this is all you will need of sweet preserves, with- 
out running the risk of being extravagant. There are but a 
few recipes for pickles which I would like you to know. The 
material for them is cheap, and you will not find the like of 
these pickles in any market. Aside from being refreshing 
when eaten with meat, they will serve you for making and 
trimming salads and various dishes. They are of the wholesome 
kind, too, not overcharged with hot spice. The recipe for 
pickled beets I gave you before, when speaking about salads. 1 
I now have for you 

The Sea-captain's Pickled Cucumbers. You will find them 
the best you ever ate. For fifty cucumbers take half a 
pint of salt. Put into a vessel large enough to hold them ; 
add the salt, and pour boiling water over them sufficient to 
cover them up. Let stand over night, then wipe them dry, 

i See p. 154. 



198 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

and arrange in large stone jars or crocks. Boil vinegar suf- 
ficient to cover your cucumbers. Just before it comes to 
a boil throw in your spice, viz. for every two quarts of vinegar 
half an ounce of mace, one ounce of black pepper seeds, one 
ounce of mustard seeds, and a quarter of a horseradish root 
cut into slices. Pour vinegar and spices over your cucumbers 
boiling hot, and when cold tie up and keep in a cool place. 
The following is a recipe for 

Tarragon Gherkins. Take cucumbers not larger than 
your little finger, wash them, and rub them all over with a fine 
brush, then put them in brine strong enough to bear an egg, 
for twenty-four hours, when drain, and dry them with a clean 
towel. Arrange them in either glass or small stone jars layer- 
wise, and put between each layer about half a dozen black pepper 
seeds and a sprig of tarragon. You may also add a bit of summer 
savory, and some shallots, or tiny onions whole, but this is not 
necessary. Now boil vinegar and pour it over the cucumbers 
boiling hot. Lay a few shavings of horseradish on top of each 
jar ; it will help to keep the pickles. Tie paper over them 
when cold, and in a week try a pickle. If lacking in salt, add 
some to the vinegar. They will keep all winter if kept in a 
cool place. 

A good old-fashioned relish, which looks appetizing in a glass 
dish, and will also serve as part of a mixed winter salad, is 

Pickled Cabbage. Take a firm head of cabbage. Cut it into 
the thinnest shreds, as for salad ; then chop fine. Put into a 
large bowl, and mix a heaped tablespoonful of salt with it. Let 
stand over night ; and next morning drain well. Mince one 
small onion ; chop two red bull-nose peppers (of which first 
remove the seeds) ; add one tablespoonful of white and one 
of black mustard seed, a sprinkle of celery seed, a few 
whole cloves, and a dozen or more black pepper seeds. Mix 
all this with the chopped cabbage ; pack into a stone jar ; cover 
the whole with a cabbage leaf, and fill up with boiling hot 
vinegar. 

I add the recipe for a very nice sweet pickle, to eat with 
cooked ham or any other kind of salt or cured meat. 



LETTER XXIII 199 

Spiced Pumpkin. Peel the pumpkin, remove the seeds, and 
cut the marrow into pieces about half an inch wide, two inches 
long, and as thick as wide. Cover with vinegar in a porcelain 
vessel. Let stand over night in a cool place. The following 
day drain off the vinegar, and throw it away. Then take half a 
pound of sugar and four tablespoonfuls of vinegar for every 
pound of pumpkin, and place on the stove to boil until the 
latter begins to look clear and glassy. Add the following spice 
before it is quite done : three cloves, a small stick of cinnamon, 
and the peel of half a lemon for every pound of pumpkin. 
Put into glass jars, and if the sirup is not thick enough when 
the pumpkin is done, cook it a while longer, before pouring it 
over the latter. The rinds of watermelon may be done in the 
same way, after peeling off the hard green outside. 

Of the various catsups which can be made at home, I coun- 
sel you to make but the following, since it is easiest, and better 
than any you buy. 

Tomato Catsup. After washing ripe tomatoes, scald and 
peel them ; then measure, and for half a peck of them take 
one scant cupful of salt, two roots of horseradish grated, one 
ounce each of black and white mustard seed ; four red peppers, 
three onions, one ounce of nasturtiums, all chopped fine ; half 
an ounce of celery seed, one teaspoonful each of ground black 
pepper and cloves ; and one tablespoonful of ground cinna- 
mon. Press off the juice of the tomatoes, and add to the latter 
all the other ingredients. After mixing thoroughly, pour over 
the whole one quart of vinegar \ fill into bottles, and cork and 
seal well. You will notice that no cooking is needed to make 
this catsup. You may leave out the nasturtiums, if more con- 
venient, and also the celery seed, since some people object to 
the latter. 

There is one more item you might add to your stores, 
and that is tarragon vinegar, since you can make it with little 
trouble so much cheaper than you buy it. 

Tarragon Vinegar. Take a quart bottle, fill it with the best 
cider vinegar, and add about five ounces of tarragon leaves, 
after having stripped them off their stems, and dried in a warm 



200 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

but shady spot. If you choose, you may also add a teaspoon- 
ful of salt, a few shallots, and a little pimpernel. In France 
they add instead, some lemon peel and a few cloves. But this 
as good as neutralizes the flavor of tarragon. Your vinegar 
once prepared, you cork your bottle, and put it for a fortnight 
in a place where it will be exposed to the sun. After that time 
filter your vinegar through a clean piece of flannel or linen, and 
put it away, tightly corked, for use. 

It seems to me that now I might safely leave you to your- 
self. You have succeeded already, with the help I lent you in 
these letters, in giving a dinner party, which has delighted every 
one permitted to be your guest ; your husband, I am told, looks 
well and cheerful, thanks to his wife's art, and his purse, as you 
write to me, is not the loser for the good fare on your table. 
Well, my friend, is there anything still to add to my teachings ? 
I will await your answer. 



LETTER XXIV 

Unsightly dishes always spoil 

The most delicious morsel, 

Serve it, though modestly, with grace : 

Your guests will sup with pleasure. 

YOUR wish is granted : I will give you all the assistance I 
can, to get up an evening entertainment which does not 
overstep your means, and yet will please the most fastidious of 
your friends. I will suggest to you various dishes and relishes 
the cost of which is moderate, while it remains for you to act 
on these suggestions, and with your taste and skill to make the 
most of them, not forgetting to serve your menu in the most 
tempting manner possible. No pains must be spared, of course, 
but head and hands be devoted to the task. 

I have always found that pickled oysters were welcome at 
evening parties. Panned or scalloped oysters also are very 
nice but, they require the presence of a good _ 

, . , , ., . , Pickled oysters. 

cook in the kitchen, while pickled oysters can be 
made a day or so before the entertainment. I have here for 
yon a very good recipe : To pickle a hundred oysters, drain 
off the liquor ; put it on the fire to boil ; remove the scum 
rising, and when clear add the necessary salt (which you must 
prove by tasting), a teacupful of vinegar, a tablespoonful of 
black pepper seeds, and two or three blades of mace. Let 
boil up, then add the oysters after having picked them over 
carefully to remove fragments of shell. Let simmer for five 
minutes, and put either in glass jars or a large tureen covered 
up. Serve in a large glass bowl. 

I merely need to remind you here of the mixed salads 
chicken, Italian, lobster, etc. which you have learned to 
make by this time. The chef-d'oeuvre which, I am sure, you 

201 



202 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

will produce, is a fit centre-piece for your table, and will serve 
you better than an expensive mass of flowers. Now you have 
oysters and a salad ; and, to set off these two chief dishes, I 
counsel to have several plates with sandwiches of different 
kinds, both inviting to the eye and appetizing to the palate. 
It is about as much of an art to make the sandwiches I mean 
as it is to compose a salad. But, after once mastering the art, 
you will never be at a loss to give your supper or lunch table 
an enticing aspect. 

To prepare yourself for these sandwiches you have to go to 
Sandwiches, and work in several wa ys. First of all you have the 
tluSm 10 mal * e cn i ce f several kinds of mixed butter for spread- 
ing them, which can be made days beforehand, 
since that sort of preparation will keep. Here are three 
recipes. 

Mustard Butter. Take two tablespoonfuls of mustard (I 
would choose the French) for every piece of butter the size of 
an egg. See that the butter is soft not hard and work 
the two ingredients together, by means of a stone mortar and 
pestle, until perfectly blended. The two following you work 
in the same way. 

Anchovy Butter. Take one teaspoonful of anchovy paste 
to butter the size of an egg. If you should find that the 
anchovy flavor were not predominant enough, add a little 
more paste. 

Sardine and Herb Butter combined is the best looking, as 
well as the best flavored of the three. The ingredients are 
salted sardines three ounces, butter a quarter of a pound, 
minced parsley a scant tablespoonful, and minced tarragon a 
teaspoonful. Wash the sardines well, but do not soak them ; 
split them and remove the bones ; then cut them into fine 
strips, and finally chop them as fine as possible. Mix and rub 
together all the ingredients until thoroughly blended. 

The two latter kinds of butter, when spread on bread, are 
palatable enough without anything else. But, used as a founda- 
tion or envelope for meat, fish, salad, etc., all three kinds will 
lend a delightfully piquant flavor to either substance. 



LETTER XXIV 203 

Next, order your bread the day before you need it, lest it 
will be too spongy to slice down nicely. Order some long, 
round loaves of French bread, and some square and oblong 
loaves of home-made (or Vienna) bread. The former, when 
sliced, will furnish you with small, disk-like pieces, surrounded 
by a crisp brown crust, which many persons like. For those 
who do not, you will have the other kind of bread, of which 
you may trim off the crust, after slicing it. All slices must, of 
course, be as thin as possible. I would, however, take part 
of the trimmed slices, and toast them slightly on the under side. 
I will tell you later for what purpose. The slices from the 
home-made bread are too large to use whole. Therefore, cut 
them either crosswise, so as to form two triangular pieces, 
or lengthwise, which will give you two oblong ones. Now 
butter some with butter pure and simple, and some with one 
or another kind of mixed butter ; and then set about to finish 
them in different ways, something for the individual taste of 
each guest. Have ready boiled tongue, ham, veal, etc., all 
chopped up fine, and each by itself. Make use of boiled or 
roasted meat you may have on hand. In the large cities you 
can buy any quantity of cooked ham, tongue, etc., which saves 
work. Or buy the potted meats, of which some, however, 
are very highly spiced. With them you can do nothing more 
than spread over buttered bread. But the chopped meat 
you may heap up on the latter ; and you may mix it with a 
mayonnaise, or a sauce ravigote} thickened by a little gelatine. 
Then, provide some capers, pickled cucumbers, both chopped 
fine, some olives (of the small kind), some hard-boiled eggs, 
grated cheese, and, if you will take the additional trouble, 
some amber-colored aspic, either chopped or cut into dice, 
and use for garnishing. Cut the eggs into slices ; keep the 
rings of whites thus obtained intact, excepting the end pieces, 
which you mince ; and rub the yellow into fine crumbs. All 
this and more which I have not mentioned is your material 
with which to do what you please, provided you produce the 

1 See p. 74. 



204 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

most enticing and satisfactory bouchees your guests have ever 
tasted. I will suggest a way of doing it. Have two large 
round plates and two smaller ones; have each covered with 
a fringed napkin or doily. Put in the centre of the large 
plates (or dishes), respectively, a little pyramid of olives and 
pink radishes. Surround them with disk-like pieces of buttered 
bread. Put in the centre of each of these pieces a ring of 
white of egg (hard-boiled), and in the centre of it some minced 
tongue, while on the outside you rim the white of egg with the 
crumbled yolk, with a caper set on top of it in short intervals, 
like so many beads. Put, also, a caper in the very centre, on 
top of the minced tongue. These sandwiches you surround 
by others of triangular shape. It takes two rows of them to 
form a ribbon-like rim : the first row you place point outward ; 
the second row point inward (toward the centre of the plate). 
Have the first row of triangles toasted on the under side ; 
spread caviare on the upper side, and place upon it one-half 
of a thin slice of lemon. For the second row of triangles, I 
advise ham and white of egg, both minced and kept separate, 
so as to form two smaller triangles on each of the larger trian- 
gles of bread. (Do not forget that each piece of bread must 
first of all be buttered.) Around this double row I would 
place a band of oblong pieces of bread, toasted on the under 
side, spread with fresh butter on top, and the latter covered 
with grated cheese of two kinds ; for instance, Gruyere on one 
slice and Chester on the next. Take a knife, and with it 
smooth over and press down all minced and chopped ingredi- 
ents, so as to make them cling to the buttered bread. Finally, 
garnish with a few sprigs of tarragon, little bunches of water- 
cress, or a wreath of smilax and some stray flowers of migno- 
nette, and your sandwiches will look tempting enough even 
for a person who has dined. The two smaller plates I would 
fill with doubled sandwiches, i.e. two and two put together, 
the inside of each piece of bread being spread with mixed 
butter of one kind or the other. Between these two covers 
I would put some chopped meat, either by itself, or mixed 
with a mayonnaise, or with the simple addition of some 



LETTER XXIV 205 

chopped pickles. Arrange these sandwiches symmetrically, 
one above the other, either forming a high square, or an 
octagon, or pyramid. Garnish with greens, and a flower here 
and there. 

If you think your guests would like to treat themselves to 
an indigestion by following the fashion and munching some 
salted almonds, which certainly are very palatable, Reci p e for 
I will be your accomplice, and give you here the salted almonds - 
recipe : Take the best and largest almonds in market. 
Scald them with boiling water ; let stand until cool, when the 
brown skins will pull off readily. Wash them in cold water, 
put on a clean towel, and rub them dry. For a pint of them, 
take two teaspoonfuls of olive oil (or of melted butter) ; mix 
and put them on a shallow sheet-iron pan ; distribute evenly, 
and dust them over with a tablespoonful of salt. Place them 
in a slow oven ; and, after about five to ten minutes, stir them 
up, add another tablespoonful of salt, and put back in the 
oven until they have turned slightly brown. Stir again, and 
remove on a sheet of paper, to get cool. 

You now will have to deliberate whether it might be best for 
you to order ice-cream for \hQfatale of your entertainment, or 
to get up yourself a sweet and yet cooling dish. If not in a 
position to get a really good ice-cream, I would rather do the 
latter. For this purpose I recommend to you a macedoine of 
fruit, for which I gave you more than one recipe. 1 To accom- 
pany it, have some nice cake, or bouchees of cake, and be 
sure to choose some in which you have succeeded before. Or 
have simply some sweet wafers, which you buy in small tin 
boxes. Now, if you add to all this a cooling beverage, you 
may consider your menu complete for the evening. I know 
of several rather inexpensive beverages, the recipes of which 
might be of use to you now and on future occasions. They 
are the following : 

Tea Punch. Take five heaped teaspoonfuls of black tea. 
Have your teapot hot before you put it in. Pour over it 

i See p. 178. 



206 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

enough boiling water to cover. Allow to draw for three min- 
utes, then fill up with boiling water. Let draw for two min- 
utes, and pour through a tea sieve into a pitcher which will 
hold two quarts. Fill the teapot up with boiling water again 
and again, allowing it each time to draw for two or three min- 
utes, until your pitcher is full. Meanwhile, heat a bottle of 
California table claret (which need not cost any more than 
twenty cents a bottle), until just before boiling; put half a 
pound of sugar into the punch-bowl, add the peel and juice 
of one lemon, and pour over it the hot claret and the tea. 
Finally, add half a pint of arrack. This economical punch is 
equally good cold or hot. If you wish it cold, set it in ice for 
several hours before serving. 

Cardinal Punch. Take three bottles of light Rhine or 
Moselle wine, and pour it over a small soup- plateful of fresh 
fruit which has been sugared for about an hour beforehand. 
The best fruit to take is either oranges, peaches, pineapple, or 
strawberries the three former to be divided into even slices. 
Add sugar to taste. Do not sweeten too much about one 
pound of sugar altogether. Let stand, covered up, for two 
hours, then add half a bottle of cheap claret. Put in ice to 
chill thoroughly, and when being served add the recipe says 
a bottle of champagne, which I convert into a bottle of 
Apollinaris kept on ice. The latter has the same sparkling 
effect, and the punch does not lose by it in quality. 

Snow Punch. Take two pounds of sugar, and boil with 
one quart of water for twenty minutes ; then pour over the 
peels of three oranges shaved off very thin ; cover up, and 
let stand for one hour. Add the juice of four lemons, and 
pour through a hair sieve. Put into a covered vessel and pack 
in ice and salt for several hours. Before serving, add the 
whites of six eggs, and whip until quite foamy, when finally 
add, still whipping, six tiny glassfuls of Jamaica rum or mara- 
schino cordial. Serve from a bowl, or in glasses filled in the 
pantry. 

Ambrosia. Take one quart of milk, add vanilla extract suf- 
ficient to give it a pleasant flavor, half a wineglassful of cherry 



LETTER xxrv 207 

brandy (Kirsch), half a small pineapple cut into very small 
pieces, and sugar to taste. Let stand covered up and on ice 
for three hours. This drink is served in small glasses at court 
parties in Berlin. 

A very refreshing drink also, when kept on ice, is Almond 
Milk. To make it, take one pound of sweet and one dozen 
bitter almonds. Scald, skin, and drop them into . 

7 L Almond milk. 

cold water. Dram, and pound them, with the 
addition of some water, in a mortar until in very small frag- 
ments. Put them into a bowl and mix with cold water to the 
consistency of thin mush. Let stand for about fifteen minutes, 
then squeeze the liquid through a very clean napkin (there 
must be no starch or indigo in it) . Put more water on the 
almonds ; let stand, and squeeze again. Add the liquid you 
obtain to the former. The almonds are now of no further 
use. Sweeten the almond milk to taste, and flavor with 
orange-flower essence, rose water, or vanilla. By adding a 
little fresh milk, the color is improved. 

But if you will not go to the extent of all this trouble and 
expense, a beverage made simply of raspberry juice or sirup 
mixed with water, and chilled on ice, is also an agreeable and 
refreshing drink. 

Now, before ending my advisory correspondence on the art 
of cooking, which has taken a larger scope than I at first 
intended, I will note down, for your guidance, a few menus 
for small lunch and dinner parties, keeping in view the limited 
means you have to deal with, in league with your art. 



MENUS FOR LUNCHEONS 

No. i 

Amber-colored broth, in cups, with cheese crusts. 

Lobster cutlets. 
Salpicon royal, on shells. 

Chicken croquettes, with celery salad, mayonnaise dressing. 
Coffee creme, in cups, with small cakes. 



208 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 



NO. 2 

Velvety soup, in cups. 
Minced veal kidneys on sauteed bread. 

Risotto. 

Backhaendl (fried chicken), with fried parsley. 
Salad of lettuce, string-beans, and beets, 

French dressing. 
Snow creme, with bouchees of cake. 



No. 3 

Raw-meat soup, in cups. 

Oyster patties. 

Sweetbreads stewed in sauce allemande. 

Chicken in jelly, with green salad, French dressing. 

Raspberry water ice, with sweet wafers. 



No. 4 

Chicken puree soup, in cups. 

Eggs on shells. 

Beefsteak with mushrooms in brown sauce. 
Meringues rilled with whipped cream. 



MENUS FOR DINNERS 



No. i 

Flour soup No. I., with asparagus tips. 
Boiled salmon, with sauce genoise, small potatoes, 

pickled gherkins (or cucumber salad). 

Ragout of sweetbreads in a ring of croutons. 

Cauliflower surrounded by green peas, boiled rice, 

and broiled lamb chops. 
Roast chickens stuffed with oysters, lettuce salad, 

French dressing. 

Russian creme, with macaroons. 

Neufchdtel cheese, crackers. 

Fruit. 

Coffee. 



LETTER XXIV 209 



NO. 2 

Green pea soup, with dice of custard. 
Ringed pike, small potatoes with melted butter and parsley, 

mustard sauce. 

Macaroni a la Milanaise. 

Roast beef, small roasted potatoes, 

puree of spinach. 

Game birds, with green salad, French dressing. 

Raspberry foam, with sugar wafers. 

Edam cheese, crackers. 

Fruit. 

Coffee. 



No. 3 

Julienne soup, with marrow balls. 
Panned oysters on shells. 

Chicken fricassee. 
Saddle of mutton, mashed potatoes with green herbs, 

chestnut puree, currant jelly. 

Cauliflower with boiled lobster, sauce ravigoie. 

Salad of lettuce and water-cress, 

French dressing. 

Macedoine of fruit, with small sponge cakes. 

frontage de Brie, crackers. 

Fruit. 

Coffee. 



No. 4 

Soup with moulded rice. 
Striped bass, stuffed and baked, potatoes, 

sauce hollandaise. 

Mixed ragout in pastry shell. 

Filet of beef a la jardiniere. 

Scalloped oysters, green salad, French dressing. 

Ice-cream, bouchees. 

Gorconzola, crackers. 

Fruit. 

Coffee. 



210 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

I leave it to your judgment to change or modify these menus 
in relation to the guests you are going to entertain. You will 
not have less than three and no more than nine at table a 
number between that of the Graces and the Muses (according 
to the old saying), and they will be either intimate friends, or 
friends farther removed whom you wish to compliment. Your 
bill of fare will have to be regulated to suit these different cir- 
cumstances. 

And now I have, indeed, come to the end. 

For my farewell I present you with a motto full of wisdom 
to put over your kitchen mantel : 

" Es kommt alles auf die Bereitung an, 
Sagte Hans, und spickte eine Kroete." 

(It all depends on how it's done, 
Quoth Jack, a-larding of a toad.) 



INDEX 



Acid dissolves gelatine, 79. 
Albuminoids, in general, 9 ; in daily 
rations, 9 ; in Rumford Soup, 21 ; 

in various soups, 22 ; in various 
meats, 43 ; in rice, 84; in vege- 
tables, 106 ; in different fish, 128 ; 

in eggs, 164; in cheese, 170; 

in light desserts, 174. 
Almonds, salted, 205 ; milk, 207. 
Ambrosia, 207. 

Anorganic substances, 9. 

Anne Ritter, 174. 

Asparagus, soup, 31 ; shavings, dried, 
34; how to cook , 113; difference 
in , 113 ; en petits pois, 113 ; 
combines well with, 113. 

Aspic, uses of, 79; recipe for , 79; 

in a. plat de gout, 79. 



B 

Backhaendl. See Chicken. 

Baked rice, 87; potatoes, 100; 
lobster, 145. 

Baking. See Cake. 

Balls, bread, 27; sponge , 28; mar- 
row , 28 ; forcemeat , 28 ; cod- 
fish , 140 ; fish for lobster fricas- 
see, 145. 

Barley, nutritive value, n ; soup No. 
i, 24; soup No. 2, 25. 

Baronius, Cardinal, 2. 

Batter for frying, 78. 

Bavarian recipe for ham dumplings, 28 ; 

for potato noodles, 102 ; 

for potato balloons, 103. 

Bavaroise. See Creme. 



Beans, dried, nutritive value, n ; string 
.nutritive value, n ; black or Mexi- 
can soup, 33 ; dried soup, 34 ; 
to cook string , 109 ; to cook Lima 
, 109. 

Bechamel, 72. 

Beef, roast, 44; braised, 46; value 
of different cuts of , 47 ; filet of 
a la jardiniere, 47 ; how to use rem- 
nants of , 48 ; en matelote, 48 ; 
loss in weight, 49; stufato a I'ita- 
lienne, with macaroni, 92. 

Beefsteak, how to broil, 44 ; to use rem- 
nants of , 48. 

Beef-tea, nutritive value, n. 

Beets, as a vegetable, 121 ; how to 
pickle , 154. 

Beverages, fermented, nutritive value, 
ii. 

Blackberry jam, 194; j e lly, 194- 

Bloaters. See Herring. 

Bluefish en matelote, 137. 

Boil, how to, meat, 14; mutton, 56; 
ham, 62; tongue, 63; rice, 
85; macaroni, 89; cauliflower, 
112; fish, 130; lobster, 143; 
loss of weight in boiling, 49. 

Bombe a la Sardanapale, 116. 

Bones, left over, 7 ; waste material, 

49- 

Bouchees, 190. 

Bouille-abaisse, 136. 

Braise, how to, meat, 45 ; beef, 46. 

Bread-box, the, 7; stale added to 
soups, 19 ; as accessories to soups, 
27; balls, for soup, 27; wheat , 
nutritive value, n ; 174 ; for sand- 
wiches, 203. 

Breast of mutton. See Mutton. 

211 



212 



INDEX 



Brillat-Savarin, 2; on soup, 20; on 
serving pheasant, 22 ; on the truffle, 
97; about salad, 147. 

Broil, how to, beefsteak, 44 ; oysters, 
142. 

Broth without fuel, 15 ; amber-colored 
, 18 ; imitation No. i, 34 ; imi- 
tation No. 2, 34; old recipes for 
, 39 ; how to clear for aspic, 80 ; 
potatoes in , 104. 

Brussels sprouts, how to cook, 114. 

Butter, lobster, 146; nutritive value, 
174 ; for cake, 182 ; to beat to 
a cream, 183 ; mustard , 202 ; an- 
chovy , 202 ; sardine and herb , 
202. 



Cabbage, nutritive value, n; to boil 
, 114; an economical dish, 114; 
augratin, 114 ; Savoy , with rice, 
114; stuffed , 115; red , 116; 
how to avoid the smell of , 116; 
pickled , 198. 

Cake, to keep, 182; rules for baking , 
181 ; 182; German drop , 184; Is- 
rael , 185 ; Jenny Lind , 185 ; 
lightning , 185; sponge , 186; 
sand , 186 ; chocolate , 186 ; Vi- 
enna , 186; fillings for , 187; 
icing and ornamenting , 188 ; small 
, 188, see also tarts ; Portuguese 
drop , 189; sugar wafers, 189; 
macaroons, 189; filets de vent, 189; 
kisses, 189 ; meringues, 190 ; bou- 
chees, 190. 

Calf s brain soup, 38 ; head, 52 ; 
head, baked, 53 ; head en tortue, 
54; tongue, 54; head-cheese, 
82. 

Candied fruit, 190 ; orange peel, 191. 

Carbohydrates, in general, 9 ; in 
daily rations, 9 ; in Rumford Soup, 
21 ; in various soups, 22 ; in va- 
rious meats, 43 ; in rice, 84 ; in 
vegetables, 106 ; in eggs, 164 ; 
in cheese, 170; in light desserts, 
174. 



Cardinal punch, 206. 

Carrots, raw, left over, 8 ; , nutritive 
value, ii ; soup, 31 ; how to cook 
, 118. 

Cauliflower, nutritive value, n; 
added to soup, 19 ; how to boil , 
112; sauce for , 112; au gratin, 
112; with lobster, 112. 

Celery, left over, 8; how to dry 
leaves for winter use, 42 ; root as 
a vegetable, 120. 

Cellulose, in vegetables, 106 ; in light 
desserts, 174. 

Cheese, nutritive value, 11; crusts, 
with soup, 27; composition of , 
170 ; a fondue, 170 ; toasted , 171 ; 
ramequins, 171. 

Cherries, sour, put up air-tight, 193 ; 
blackhearts, air-tight, 193. 

Chestnut stuffing, 67 ; about , 125 ; 
as a garnish, 125 ; puree of chestnuts, 
126. 

Chevrier, how he ate spinach, in. 

Chicken, puree soup, 37; loses in 
weight, 49 ; how to buy , 63 ; how 
to cook young , 64; stewed 
with rice, 64 ; fricassee of , 65 ; 
young fried in lard (Backhaendl), 
65 ; remnant of as ragout, 69 ; 
in jelly, 81; as pilaff, 86 ; salad, 
162. 

Chocolate, nutritive values, 11; 
creme, 175; 178; cake, 186; 
tarts, 188. 

Chops, mutton, see Mutton ; pork , 
see Pork. 

Clams, nutritive value, n; 142; 
chowder, 143. 

Claret sauce, 181. 

Cod, nutritive value, n, 130; , boiled 
and stewed, 132 ; various ways of pre- 
paring salt , 139 ; fish balls, 140. 

Coffee, nutritive value, 11 ; creme, 

175- 

Convalescents. See Sickness. 

Cooking, a severe task, i ; an art, 2 ; 
not confined to women, 2; Lie- 
big's influence on ,6; principles 



INDEX 



213 



of meat demonstrated, 44; ra- 
gouts a valuable chapter of , 73. 

Cooking-school, during reign of Louis 
XIV., 6. 

Corn, meal, nutritive value, n ; 
meal, n; soup, 32; green , 
121 ; fritters, 121 ; canned , 122. 

Cornstarch, nutritive value, n ; 174. 

Court-Bouillon to boil fish in, 130. 

Cream, to make whipped, 177 ; whipped 
and fruit, 177. 

Creme, coffee, in cups, 175 ; chocolate 
, 175 ; snow , 176 ; Russian , 
177 ; chocolate , or bavaroise, 178. 

Croquettes, how to make, 77; potato 
, 102. 

Croutons, in soups, 27 ; for ragouts, 

73- 

Cucumbers as a vegetable, 119 ; 
salad, 156 ; sea-captain's pickled cu- 
cumbers, 197 ; tarragon gherkins, 
198. 

Currant jelly, 194. 

Custard for soup, 25 ; in cups for 
dessert, 175 ; pudding, 180. 

Cutlets, veal, 51. 



Dairy, favor the, 12. 

Danish recipe for rodgrod, 176. 

Desserts, food value of light, 174; the 
most economical of , 174 ; in 
cups, custard, 175; coffee creme, 
175 ; chocolate creme, 175 ; Mount 
Blanc, 176; raspberry foam, 176; 
rodgrod, 176; whipped cream with 
fruit, 177; Russian rice, 178; some 
ways to make a macedoine of fruit, 
179. See also Cremes, Puddings. 

Dressing, plain, "French," for salad, 
150; Sydney Smith's for salad, 
152 ; two more , 152 ; three recipes 
for mayonnaise , 153 ; slight vari- 
ation of , 154. 

Drumsticks, devilled, 66. 

Duck, loses in weight, 49 ; a la Por- 
tugaise, 49 ; how to buy , 63. 



Dumas' recipe for beef en matelote, 

48 ; for a breakfast dish of cold 

tongue, 63 ; for sauce tartare, 

74; two recipes for macaroni, 

92; for potatoes a la maitre 
d' hotel, 103 ; for macedoine of 
vegetables, 126 ; salad, 162. 

Dumont, Abbe, 2. 

Dumplings, ham, 28. 



Eggs, nutritive value, n; 164; to boil 
, 164 ; test your eggs before using, 
165 ; poached , 165 ; fried , 165 ; 
panned , 165 ; on shells, 166 ; 
an omelet, 166 ; various omelets, 166 ; 
omelet with bacon, 167 ; various ac- 
cessories to omelets, 167 ; stirred , 
167; Roman fritata, 168; pancakes, 
169 ; pancakes filled with meat, 169 ; 
farcied , 170 ; and cheese, 170 ; 
171 ; expensive dishes, 171 ; pancakes 
for dessert, 175 ; white of egg pud- 
ding, 180 ; for cake, 183. 

Egg-plant, sautez&, 122 ; au gratin, 

122. 

Emperor William I. of Germany liked 
a dish of stewed turkey, 66. 

English recipe for rice-flour soup, 25 ; 
soups too much spiced, 42. 



Farina, nutritive value, n ; 174 ; soup, 

23- 

Fat, how to use, 7 ; taken off soup- 
liquor, 16. 

Fats, in general, 9 ; in daily rations, 
9 ; in Rumford Soup, 21 ; in vari- 
ous soups, 22; in various meats, 
43 ; in rice, 84 ; in vegetables, 
106 ; in different fish, 128 ; in 
eggs, 164; in cheese, 170; in 
light desserts, 174. 

Filet of beef, 47 ; of pork, 60 ; of 
flounder, 134. 

Filets de vent, 189. 



214 



INDEX 



Filling, nut, for cake, 187 ; orange , 
187. 

Fire, importance of, 4; for baking 
cake, 183. 

Fish, nutritive value, n ; food value 
of , 128 ; nutritive value of differ- 
ent kinds of , 128; 129; how to 
cook , 129 ; to boil , 130 ; Court- 
Bouillon to boil in, 130; to broil 
, 134; steak, 135; five recipes 
for using remnants of , 135 ; 136 ; 
Bouille-abaisse, 136 ; in jelly, 138 ; 

balls for lobster fricassee, 145 ; 
salad, 159. 

Flounder, filet of, a la Joinville, 

134. 

Flour, unbolted, nutritive value, n ; 
, wheat, ii ; 174; soup No. i, 
23 ; soup No. 2, 24 ; for cake, 
182. 

Food, how to prepare, 8 ; , two classes 
of, 8 ; , chemistry of, 9 ; , daily 
rations of, 9 ; , nutritive values of 
different, n; , necessary amount 
according to Voit, n ; .variety very 
important, 12; value of soups, 22; 
salt contained in , 40 ; waste ma-" 
terial in , 49. 

Forcemeat balls, 28. 

Forms for baking cake, 184. 

Franfoise's, Mile., recipe for raw meat 

soup, 37 ; for braised beef, 

46; gives a recipe of Rossini, 

91 ; for macedoine of fruit, 

179. 

French excel in salad dressing, 149. 

French recipe for soup, 24 ; two 

for matelotes offish, 137; 138. 

Fricassee of chicken. See Chicken. 

Fritata. See Eggs. 

Frogs' legs, three recipes, 146. 

Fruit, nutritive value, n, 174; whipped 
cream with , 177 ; macedoine of , 
179 ; sauce, 181 ; to candy , 190 ; 

preserves, see 192. 

Fry, difference between and saute, 
76 ; how to , 77 ; batter for , 78 ; 

oysters, 142. 



Game, puree soup, 38. 

Gelatine, in general, 78 ; nutritive qual- 
ity of , 79; dissolved by acids, 79; 
substances yielding , 79 ; in what 
proportions to use , 178. 

Georgia recipe for gumbo soup, 33. 

German recipe for rice-flour soup, 25 ; 

for Lenten soup, 34 ; South 

recipe for sauce genoise with salmon, 
133 ; South way of preparing cod- 
fish, 139; for frogs' legs, 146; 

for Arme Ritter, 174 ; drop 

cakes, 184. 

Golden dice in soups, 27. 

Gouffe, 75. 

Greek cooks, ancient, 4. 

Gumbo soup, 33. 

H 

Haddock, boiled and stewed, 132. 

Ham dumplings, 28 ; loses in weight, 
49 ; , general remarks, 61 ; sauce 
for cold , 61 ; how to use boiled 
, 62 ; boiled , 62 ; roast , 62. 

Head-cheese. See Calf. 

Herbs, how to preserve, 42; for 
salads, 148, 149 ; dressing of salad, 

I 5 I - 
Herring, nutritive value, n; 130; 

broiled bloaters, 135. 
Horseradish sauce. See Sauce. 



Invalids. See Sickness. 

Israel cake, 185. 

Italian soup, 32; recipe for maca- 
roni, 89; another macaroni dish, 
93 ; enthusiast on macaroni, 94 ; 
salad, 158. 



Jenny Lind'cake, 185. 
Julienne soup, 30. 



INDEX 



215 



K 



Kale, nutritive value, n. 

Kidneys, veal, 50 ; , mutton, 58. 

Kisses, 189. 

Klencke, Dr. Hermann, gives a recipe 

for a dish containing an entire meal, 

105. 
Kohlrabi, to cook, 109, 



Lamartine, 2. 

Lamb loses in weight, 49; spring , 
56. 

La Reyniere's descriptive name for 
calf, 50 ; descriptive name for pig, 
59 ; on macaroni, 88 ; recipe for 
stuffed tomatoes, 124 ; on salmon, 

133- 
Larochefoucauld, Duke of, pupil in 

cooking-school, 6. 
Leeks, nutritive value, n. 
Leg of mutton. See Mutton. 
Lemon peel, how to preserve for use, 

42 ; pudding, 180. 
Lentils, nutritive value, n; soup, 

34- 

Lettuce, nutritive value, n. See Chap- 
ter on Salads. 

Liebig's influence on cooking, 6; 
recipe for making broth with his 
extract, 18. 

Lightning cake, 185. 

Lobster, cauliflower with, 112; how to 
boil a , 143; cutlets, 144; 
stew, 144 ; fricassee, 144 ; baked 
145 ; creamed , 145 ; sauce, 
146 ; butter, 146 ; salad, 160. 

Loin of mutton, see Mutton ; tender 
of pork, 60 ; fore of pork, 60. 



M 

Macaroni, nutritive value, u; general 
remarks, 88; how to boil , 89; 
Italian recipe for , 89 ; al sugo, 
go; with tomato, 90; praises of 



, 91 ; slufato & ritalienne, with , 
gi t 92; a la menagere, 92; au 
gratin, 92 ; , another dish, 93 ; 
pie, 94 ; baked , 94. 

Macaroons, 189. 

Macedoine of vegetables, 126; of 
fruit, 179. 

Mackerel, broiled, 134. 

Maintenon, Madame de, writes of peas, 
108. 

Marketing, buy the best material, 8. 

Marrow balls, 28. 

Mazarin, Cardinal, 2. 

Meat, how to buy, 3 ; relative value of 
different pieces, 3; the best, cheap- 
est, 3 ; how long should be hung, 
4; fat .nutritive value, n ; lean 
, nutritive value, n; we eat too 
much , 12; Dr. Wiel's recipe for 
good soup and , 16 ; Liebig's ex- 
tract of in soup, 17 ; soups of 
chopped , 36 ; 37 ; 38 ; relative 
value of different kinds of , 43; 
principle involved in preparing , 
43 ; precautions in handling , 45 ; 
stewed or braised , 45 ; 46 ; time 
for roasting , 46 ; jelly, see As- 
pic; two recipes of Dr. Wiel for 

jelly for invalids, 82 ; 83 ; dish of 
vegetables and , 108 ; salads, 
162. 

Men cooks, 2. 

Menus for luncheons, 207, 208 ; for 
dinners, 208, 209. 

Meringues, 189. 

Mery on bouille-abaisse, 136. 

Mexican beans. See Beans. 

Milk, nutritive value, II ; 174. 

Mineral matters, in food, 9 ; in vari- 
ous meats, 43 ; in vegetables, 106 ; 

in spinach, no; in fish, 128; 

in eggs, 164 ; in cheese, 170 ; 
in light desserts, 174. 

Monselet, recipe for duck a la Portu- 
gaise, 49 ; on salad, 149 ; quotes 
Mery's poem on bouille-abaisse, 136. 

Motto for kitchen, 210. 

Mount Blanc dessert, 176. 



216 



INDEX 



Mushrooms, nutritive value, n ; gen- 
eral remarks, 95 ; description of 
champignon, or edible , 96; how 
to cook , 96 ; how to prepare , 
96 ; what to do with scrapings, 97. 

Mustard sauce, 132; butter, 202. 

Mutton loses in weight, 49; general 
remarks, 55 ; boiled , 56 ; roast , 
56 ; shoulder of , 57 ; breast of , 
57; chops, 57; kidneys, 58; 
as pilaff, 85 ; a dish which is a 
meal in itself, 105. 



N 



New England recipe for boiled cod- 
fish, 139 ; for codfish balls, 

140. 

Nut filling for cake, 187. 



Okra, 32. 

Omelet soup, 24 ; , for recipes, see 
Eggs. 

Onions, nutritive value, n ; , stewed, 
124; puree of , 125; as a gar- 
nish for a roast, 125. 

Orange, peel, how to preserve for use, 
42 ; filling for cake, 187 ; to candy 

peel, 191. 
Oriental pilaff, 85. 

Oysters, nutritive value, n ; stuffing, 
67 ; general remarks, 140 ; roast , 
140 ; panned , 141 ; scalloped , 
141 ; stew, 141 ; fried , 142 ; 
broiled , 142; fricassee, 142; 

sauce, 142; pickled , 201. 
Oyster plant. See Salsify. 



Pancakes, 169; 175. 

Panned oysters, 141. 

Parsley, left over, 8 ; added to soup, 
19 ; how to preserve for winter 
use, 42 ; fried , 66 ; sauce, 133. 



Parsnips, nutritive value, n ; how to 
cook , 1 20. 

Peaches, in halves, 195; marma- 
lade, 105 ; brandy , 196. 

Peas, dried, nutritive value, n ; , 
green, nutritive value, n ; green 
soup, 32 ; dried soup, 34 ; 
pod soup, 36 ; to cook green , 107 ; 
historical, 108. 

Perch, matelote of, 138. 

Pickled cucumbers, 197; cabtage, 
198 ; oysters, 201. 

Pie, macaroni, 94; indigestible and 
wasteful, 173. 

Pigeons, how to buy, 63; how to cook 
, 67 ; with rice, 67 ; stuffing for 
.68. 

Pike, nutritive value, 130; , stewed, 
131 ; , ringed, 132. 

Pilaff. See Rice. 

Plat de go&t. See Aspic. 

Plato's opinion, 2. 

Poor family, to feed, 21. 

Pork, salt, nutritive value, n ; general 
remarks, 59 ; roast , 59 ; filet of 
, 60 ; foreloin of , 60 ; chops, 
61. 

Portuguese, salad, 158 ; drop cakes, 
189. 

Potage veloute. See Velvety Soup, 24 ; 

aux voyageurs, 26. 

Potatoes, nutritive value, n ; , sweet, 
ii ; 121 ; soup, 35; general re- 
marks, 99; how to boil , 99; to 
steam , 100 ; to bake , 100 ; some 
kinds of mashed , 101 ; mashed 
au gratin, 101 ; other dishes, 101 ; 
roast , 101 ; pudding with cheese, 
102; croquettes, 102; noodles, 
102; balloons, 103; remnants of 
, 103 ; a la maitre d 'hotel, 103 ; 

stewed in milk, 104; in broth, 
104 ; a dish which contains a whole 
meal, 105 ; salads, 157 ; 158. 

Poultry, in general and how to buy, 63 ; 

remnants of , 66 ; stuffings for , 

67. 
Preserving, rules for, 192. 



INDEX 



217 



Pudding, spinach, in ; , English, in- 
digestible, 173; apple , 180; white 
of egg , 180 ; custard , 180 ; lemon 
, 180; rice , 181. 

Pulse. See Beans, Peas, and Lentils. 

Pumpkin, spiced, 199. 

Punch, tea, 205 ; cardinal ,206; snow 
, 206 ; ambrosia , 206. 

Puree, 36 ; chicken soup, 37 ; game 
soup, 38; of spinach, no; 
of onions, 124 ; of chestnuts, 126. 



Quinces, preserved, 196; 197. 



Ragotit, the principle demonstrated, 69 ; 

difference between salpicon and , 

70; brown sauce, 71; mixed 

in pastry shell, 72. 
Raspberry, foam, 176; jam, 194; 

sirup, 194 ; jelly, 194. 
Red cabbage. See Cabbage. 
Remnants, how to use economically, 7 ; 

of vegetables in soups, 27 ; of 
roast beef and beefsteak, 48; of 
boiled ham, 62; of tongue for 
breakfast, 63 ; of poultry, 66 ; 
as rago&ts, 69 ; fried in batter, 78 ; 

of macaroni, 94; of potato, 
103; of spinach as spinach pud- 
ding, in; of tomatoes, 124; 
of salmon, 135 ; of fish, 135 ; 136 ; 
138 ; of oysters, 142 ; in salads, 
see Salads. 

Rice, nutritive value, ii ; 174; flour 
soup, 25 ; soup with moulded , 25 ; 
stewed chicken with , 64; pigeons 
with ,67; a ring, 73; general 
remarks, 84 ; how to boil , 85 ; Ori- 
ental pilaff, 85; Turkish pilaff, 86; 
risotto, 87; baked , 87; Russian 
, 178 ; pudding, 181. 

Richelieu, Cardinal, 2. 

Risi-pisi, 32. 

Risotto. See Rice. 



Roast, how to, beef, 44 ; loss of weight 
in ,49; mutton, 56; pork, 
59; tenderloin of pork, 60; 
ham, 62 ; potatoes, 101 ; oys- 
ters, 140. 

Rodgrod, 176. 

Rossini's praises of macaroni, 91 ; stu- 
fato a I'italienne, 91. 

Roulade of veal, 54 ; instead of boned 
turkey, 55. 

Rousseau, expert in cooking eggs, 2. 

Rumford, invented a soup, 2; recipe 
for it, 21. 



Sable 1 , Madame de, establishes a cook- 
ing-school, 6. 

Saddle of mutton. See Mutton. 

Sago, nutritive value, n. 

Salad, general remarks, 147; opium 
in , 148 ; herbs for , 148 ; 149 ; 
how to make a plain lettuce , 150 ; 
dressing of herb , 151 ; combina- 
tions of , 154; 155; cabbage , 
155; vegetables for , 155; excel- 
lent combination , 156 ; cucumber 
, 156 ; potato , 157 ; 158 ; Portu- 
guese , 158 ; Italian , 158 ; an 
appetizer, 158 ; real sardine , 159 ; 
Venetian fish , 159; salmon , 
160 ; lobster , 160 ; two vegetable 
, 161 ; Dumas , 162 ; chicken , 
162; other kinds of meat , 162; 
tomato , 163. 

Salmon, nutritive value, n ; 130 ; boiled 
, 133; two sauces for , 133; 
left over, 133 ; salad, 160. 

Salpicon royal, 70 ; a la Conde, 70. 

Salsify, how to cook, 119; a la pou- 
lette, 119; fritters, 119. 

Salt is contained in most foods, 40; 
adulteration of , 40 ; how to , 41 ; 
assists digestion, 41; raises 
boiling-point of water, 41 ; in his- 
tory, 41. 

Sand cake, 186. 

Sandwiches, 202 ; 203 ; 204. 



218 



INDEX 



Sardines, nutritive value, n ; 130; real 

salad, 159 ; butter, 202. 
Sauce, Cumberland, 60; for cold 

ham, see Ham; horseradish , 61; 
how is made, 70; stock for , 
71 ; brown ragout , 71 ; plain 
bechamel , 72 ; allemande, 72 ; 

maltre d'hbtel, 74 ; tartar e, 74 ; 
herb , 74; for spinach pudding, 
in; for cauliflower, 112; hol- 
landaise, for fish, 131 ; mustard , 
132 ; parsley, 133 ; genoise, 133 ; 

remoulade, 134; oyster , 142; 
lobster , 146 ; mayonnaise , see 
Dressing ; wine , 181 ; fruit , 181 ; 
claret , 181. .^ 

Sausage stuffing, 67. 

Savoy cabbage. See Cabbage. 

Scalloped oysters, 141. 

Shoulder of mutton. See Mutton. 

Sickness, old fowl for broth, 63; two 
recipes for meat-jelly, 82 ; 83 ; frogs' 
legs, 146. 

Snow punch, 206. 

Sorrel with spinach as a vegetable, 
in. 

Soup, how to make broth for, 14 ; 
recipe for ordinary liquor, 16; 
Dr. Wiel's recipe for , 16 ; made 
of Liebig's extract, 18; adding egg 
to , 18 ; remnants added to , 
19 ; Rumford , 21 ; recipe for fa- 
rina , 23; for flour No. i, 23; 
for flour No. 2, 24 ; velvety , 24 ; 
omelet , 24 ; barley No. I, 24 ; 
barley No. 2, 25 ; rice-flour , 25 ; 
custard for , 25 ; with moulded 
rice, 25; travellers' , 26; accesso- 
ries to , 27 ; vegetable , 30 ; Ju- 
lienne , 30; Easter , 31; carrot 
, 31 ; asparagus , 31 ; green pea 
, 32; Italian , 32; corn , 32; 
okra , 32 ; tomato , 32 ; gumbo 
, 33 ; black bean , 33 ; made 
of pulse, 33 ; 34 ; water , 34 ; po- 
tato , 35; green , 35 ; pea-pod , 
36; of chopped meat, 36 ; 37; 38; 
raw meat , 37 ; chicken puree , 



37 ; game puree , 38 ; sweetbread 

, 38 ; calf s brain , 38. 
Spaghetti. See Macaroni. 
Spice, use sparingly, 41; too much 

hurtful, 42 ; buy whole, 42 ; how 

to keep , 42. 
Spiced pumpkins, 190. 
Spinach, nutritive value, n ; or 

green soup, 35 ; about , no ; puree 

of , no; as an entremets, no; 

pudding, in ; warmed up, n i ; 

and sorrel, in. 

Sponge, balls, for soup, 28 ; cake, 186. 

Squash, to cook, 122. 

Stewed, mutton, see Braised; tur- 
key, 66; potatoes in milk, 104. 

Striped bass, stuffed and baked, 130. 

Stufato a I' italienne. See Macaroni. 

Stuffings, for poultry, 67 ; for pigeons, 
68. 

Sugar, nutritive value, n; 174; for 
cake, 182. 

Sweetbread, soup, 38 ; , 52. 

Swiss recipe, potatoes with cheese, 103 ; 
, stewed pike, 131. 

Sydney Smith's recipe for salad dress- 
ing, 152. 



Tarragon, gherkins, 198 ; vinegar, 

199. 

Tarts, 188 ; chocolate , 188. 
Tea, nutritive value, 11 ; punch, 205. 
Thackeray, poem on douille-abaisse, 

136- 

Thompson, Benjamin. See Rumford. 
Tomato, soup, 32; macaroni with , 

90 ; belongs to nightshades, 123 ; 

stewed , 123 ; baked , 123 ; fried 

, 123 ; stuffed , 124 ; left over, 

124 ; salad, 163 ; catsup, 199. 
Tongue, how to boil, 63 ; breakfast dish 

of cold , 63. 
Truffles, 97. 
Turkey, loses in weight, 49 ; roulade of 

veal instead of , 55 ; how to buy , 

63 ; stewed , 66. 
Turkish pilaff, 86. 



INDEX 



219 



Turnips, nutritive value, n; how to 
cook , 118. 



Veal, general remarks, 50; kidneys, 
50; cutlets, 51; a la parmen- 
tiere, 51; miroton of ,52; roulade 

of 54- 

Vegetables, value in nutrition, 98 ; nu- 
tritive value of , 106; dish of 
and meat, 108 ; dish of mixed roots, 
120; macedoine of , 126; in 
salads, see Salads. 

Venetian fish salad, 159. 

Vermicelli, nutritive value, n ; soup, 
26. 

Vienna Schnitzel. See Veal Cutlet. 
cake, 186. 



Voit, C., sets down daily rations, II. 
Vol au vent. See Ragotit. 

W 

Water, as refuse matter, n ; soups, 
34 ; salt raises the boiling-point of , 
41 ; waste material, 49 ; large per- 
centage of in potatoes, 99 ; in veg- 
etables, 106; in different fish, 128; 
in eggs, 164 ; in cheese, 170 ; in light 
desserts, 174. 

Wiel, Dr., how to buy meat, 3 ; recipe 
for better meat and good soup, 16; 
two recipes for meat-jelly, 82; 83; 
recommends frogs' legs, 146 ; about 
eggs, 164. 

Wine sauce, 181. 



Typography by J. S. Gushing & Co., Boston, U.S.A. 
Presswork by Berwick & Smith, Boston, U.S.A. 



ST. DUNSTAN'S HOUSE, FETTER LANE, 

LONDON, E.G. 1892. 

Select List of Books 

in all Departments of 

Literature 



PUBLISHED BY 



Sampson %ow, flfcarston & Company 



ABBEY and PARSONS, Quiet 
Life, from drawings ; motive by- 
Austin Dobson, 31s. 6d, 

ABBOTT, CHARLES C., Waste 

Land Wanderings, 10s. 6d. 

ABERDEEN, EARL OF. See 

Prime Ministers. 

ABNEY, CAPT., Thebes and its 
Greater Temples, 40 photos. 63s. 

and CUNNINGHAM, 

Pioneers of the Alps, new ed. 21s. 

About in the World. See Gentle 
Life Series. 

Some Fellows, from my 

note-book, by "an Eton boy," 
2s. 6d. ', new edit. Is. 

ADAMS, CHARLES K., Histori- 
cal Literature, 12s. 6d. 

ADDISON, Sir Roger de Cov- 
erley, from the " Spectator," 6s. 

AGASSIZ, ALEX.., Three Cruises 
of the " Blake," illust. 2 vols. 42s. 

ALBERT, PRINCE. See Bayard 
Series. 

ALCOTT, L. M. Jo's Soys, 
a sequel to " Little Men," 5s. 

Life, Letters and Journals, 

by Ednah D. Cheney, 6s. 

Lulu's Library, a story 

for girls, 3s. Gd. 

Old-fashioned Thanksgiv- 
ing Day, 3s. 6d. 

Proverb Stones, 3*. Qd. 



ALCOTT, L. M., Recollections 

of my Childhood's Days, 3s. 6d. 

Silver Pitchers, 3s. 6d. 

Spinning-wheel Stories, 5s. 

See also Low's Standard 

Series and Rose Library. 
ALDAM, W. H., Flies and Ny- 

mahing, with actnal specimens on 

cardboard, 63s. 

ALDEN, W. L. See Low's 

Standard Series. 
ALFORD, LADY MARIAN, 

Needlework as Art, 21s. ; 1. p. 84s. 
ALGER, J. G., Englishmen in 

the French Revolution, 7s. 6d, 
Amateur Angler in Dove Dale, 

a three weeks' holiday, by E. M. 

Is. 6d., Is. and 5s. 
ANDERSEN, H. C., Fairy 

Tales, illust. in colour by E. V. B. 

25s., new edit. 5s. 
Fairy Tales, illust. by 

Scandinavian artists, 6s. 
ANDERSON, W., Pictorial 

Arts of Japan, 4 parts, 168*. j 

artist's proofs, 252s. 
ANDRES, Varnishes, Lacquers, 

Siccatives, fy Sealing-wax, 12s. 6d. 
Angler's strange Experiences, by 

Cotewold Isys, new edit., 3s. 6d. 
ANNESLEY, C., Standard 

Opera Glass, the plots of eight/ 

operas, 3rd edit., 2. 6d. 



A Select List of Books 



Annual American Catalogue of 
Books,. 1886-89, each 10s. 6d., half 
morocco, 14s. 

1890, cloth, 15s., half 

morocco, cloth sides, 18s. 

Antipodean Notes ; a nine 
months' tour, by Wanderer, 7s. Qd. 

APPLETON, European Guide, 
new edit., 2 parts, 10s. each. 

ARCHER, W., English Drama- 
tists of To-day, 8s. Qd. 

ARLOT'S Coach Painting, from 
the French by A. A. Fesquet, 
6s. 

ARMYTAGE, HON. MRS., Wars 

of Queen Victoria's Reign, 5s. 
ARNOLD, E., Birthday Book ; 

by Kath. L. and Constance 

Arnold, 4s. Gd. 
E. L. L., Summer Holiday 

in Scandinavia, 10s. Qd. 
On the Indian Hills, 

Coffee Planting, fyc., 2 vols. 24s. 
R., Ammonia and Ammo- 
nium Compounds, illust. 5s. 
Artistic Japan, text, woodcuts, 

and coloured plates, vols. I. -VI., 

15s. each. 

ASBJORNSEN, P. C., Round 

the Yule Log, 7s. Qd. ; new edit. 5s. 
ASHE, R. P., Two Kings of 

Uganda; six years in Eastern 

Equatorial Africa, 6s. ; new edit. 

3s. 6cZ. 
Uganda, England's latest 

Charge, stiff cover, Is. 

ASHTON, F. T,, Designing 

fancy Cotton and Woollen Cloths, 

illust. 50s. 
ATCHISON, C. C., Winter 

Cruise in Summer Seas ; "how I 

found " health, 16s. 

ATKINSON, J. B. Overtook. 

See Great Artists. 
ATTWELL, Italian Masters, 
especially in the National Gal- 
lery, 3*. 6d. 



AUDSLEY, G. A., Chroma- 

lithography, 44 coloured plates 
and text, 63s. 

Ornamental Arts of Japan, 

2 vols. morocco, 23Z. 2s. ; four 
parts, 15Z. 15*. 

W. and G. A., Ornament 

in all Styles, 31*. Qd. 

AUERBACH, B., Brigitta (B. 

Tauchnitz), 2s. j sawed, Is. 6d. 
On the Height (B. 

Tauchnitz), 3 vols. 6s. ; sewed, 

4s. Qd. 
Spinoza (B. Tauchnitz), 

2 vols. 4s. 

AUSTRALIA. SeeP.Countries. 
AUSTRIA. See F. Countries. 
Autumn Cruise in the ^Egean, 

by one of the party. See " Fitz- 

patrick." 

BACH. See Great Musicians. 
BACON. See English Philoso- 
phers. 

DELiA,Biograyhy t 10s. Qd. 

BADDELEY, W. ST. CLAIB, 

Love's Vintage; sonnets and 

lyrics, 5s. 

Tchay and Chianti, a 

short visit to Itussia and Finland, 
5s. 

Travel-tide, 7s. Qd. 

BAKER, JAMES, John Westa- 
cott, new edit. 6s. and 3s. Qd. 

BALDWIN, J., Story of Sieg- 
fried, illust. 6s. 

Story of Roland, illust. 6s. 

Story of the Golden Age, 

illust. 6s. 

J. D., Ancient Amwica, 



illust. 10s. Qd. 
Ballad Stories. See Bayard 

Series. 
Ballads of the Cid, edited by 

Rev, Gerrard Lewis, 3s. 6d. 
BALLANTYNE, T., Essays. 

See Bayard Series. 



In all Departments of Literature. 



BALLIN, ADA S., Science of 

Dress, illust. 6s. 
BAMFOKD, A. J., Turbans 

and Tails, 7s. Qd. 
BANCROFT, G., History of 

America, new edit. 6 vols. 73s. Qd. 
BarUzon Painters, by J. W. 

Mollett I. Millet, T. "Rousseau, 

and Diaz, 3s. Qd. II. Corot, 

Daubigny and Dupre, 3s. 6d. j 

the two in one vol. 7s. Qd. 
BAKING-GOULD. SeeForeign 

Countries. 
BAELOW, A., Weaving, new 

edit. 25s. 

P. W.,Kaipara, NewZ.,s. 

W., Matter and Force, 

12s. 

BARRETT. See Gr. Musicians. 
BARROW, J., Mountain 

Ascents, new edit. 5s. 
BASSETT, Legends of the Sea, 

7s. 6d. 
BATHGATE, A., Waitaruna, 

New Zealand, 5s. 
Bayard Series, edited by the 

late J. Hain Friswell j flexible 

cloth extra, 2s. Gd. each. 
Chevalier Bayard, by Berville. 
De Joinville, St. Louis. 
Essays of Cowley. 
Abdallah, by Laboullaye. 
Table-Talk of Napoleon. 
Vathek, by Beckf ord. 
Cavalier and Puritan Songa. 
Words of Wellington. 
Johnson's Rasselas. 
Hazlitt's Round Table. 
Browne's Eeligio Medici. 
Ballad Stories of the Affections, by 

Robert Buchanan. 
Coleridge's Christabel, &c. 
Chesterfield's Letters. 
Essays in Mosaic, by T. Ballan- 

tyne. 

My Uncle Toby. 
Rochefoucauld, Reflections. 
Socrates, Memoirs from Xenophon. 
Prince Albert's Precepts. 



BEACONSFIELD, Public Life, 
3s. 6d. 

See also Prime Ministers. 

BEAUGRAND, Young Natu- 

ralists, new edit. 5s. 
BECKER, A.L., First German 

Boole, Is. ; Exercises, Is. ; Key to 

both, 2s. 6d. ; German Idioms, 

Is. Qd. 

BECKFORD. See Bayard Series. 
BEECHER, H. W., Biography, 

new edit. 10s. Qd. 
BEETHOVEN. See Great 

Musicians. 
BEHNKE, E., Child's Voice, 

3s. Qd. 
BELL, Oleah, Witchcraft in the 

West Indies, 2s. Qd. 

BELLENGER & WITCOMB'S 

French and English Conversations, 

new edit. Paris, bds. 2s. 
BENJAMIN, Atlantic Islands 

as health, fyc., resorts. 16s. 
BERLIOZ. See Gr. Musicians. 
BERVILLE. See Bayard Series. 
BIART, Young Naturalist, 

new edit. 7s. Qd. 
Involuntary Voyage, 7s. 6d. 

and 5s. 
Two Friends, translated by 

Mary de Haute ville, 7s. 6d. 

See also Low's Standard Books. 
BICKERSTETH, ASHLEY, 

B.A., Outlines of Roman History, 

2s. 6<Z. 

E. H., Exon., Clergyman 

in his Home, Is. 

From Tear to Year, 

original poetical pieces, morocco 
or calf, 10s. Qd. ; padded roan, 6s. ; 
roan, 5s. ; cloth, 3s. Qd. 

Hymnal Companion, full 

lists post free. 

Master's Home Call, new 

edit. Is. 

Octave of Hymns, sewn, 3d., 



with music, Is. 



A Select List of Books 



BICKERSTETH, E. H., Exon., 

Reef, Parables, &o., illast. 7s. Gd. 
and 2s. Gd. 

Shadowed Home, n. ed. 5s. 

BIGELOW, JOHN, France and 
the Confederate Navy, .an inter- 
national episode, 7s. 6d. 

BILBROIJGH, 'Twixt France 
and Spain, 7s. 6cf. 

BILLROTH, Care of the Sick, 6s. 

BIRD, F. J., Dyer's Companion, 
42s. 

F. S., Land of Dykes and 

Windmills, 32s. Gd. 

H.E., Chess Practice, 2s.6d. 

BISHOP . See Nursing Record 
Series. 

BLACK, ROBERT, Horse Racing 
in France, 14s. 

W., Donald Ross of 

Heimra, 3 vols. 31s. Gd. 

Novels, new and uniform 
edition in monthly vols. 2s. Gd. ea. 

' See Low's Standard Novels. 

BLACKBURN, C. F., Cata- 
logue Titles, Index Entries, &c. 14s. 

H., Art in the Mountains, 

new edit. 5s. 

Artists and Arabs, 7s. Qd. 

Breton Folk, new issue, 

10s. Gd. 

Harz Mountains, 12s. 

Normandy Picturesque, 

. 16s. 

Pyrenees, illust. by Gus- 
tavo Dore, new edit. 7s. Qd. 

BLACKMORE,R.D., Georgics, 

4s. 6d. ; cheap edit. 1*. 
Lorna Doone, edit, de luxe, 

35s., 31s. Gd. & 21s. 

Lorna Doone, illust. by 

W. Small, 7s. 6d. 

Springhaven, illust. 12s. ; 

new edit. 7s. Gd. & 6s. 
See also Low's Standard 

Novell. 



BLAIKIE, How to get Strong, 
new edit. 5s. 

Sound Bodies for our Boys 

and Girls, 2s. 6d. 

BLOOMFIELD. See Choice 

Editions. 
Bobby, a Story, by Vesper, Is. 

B OCK, Head Hunters of Borneo, 

36s. 

Temples $ Elephants, 21s. 

BONAPARTE, MAD. PATTER- 

SON, Life, 10s. Gd. 
BONWICK, JAMES, Colonial 

Days, 2s. 6d. 
Colonies, Is. ea. ; 1 vol. 5s. 

Daily Life of the Tos- 

manians, 12s. 6d. 

First Twenty Years of 

Australia, 5s. 

Last of the Tasmanians, 1 6s. 

Port Philip, 21s. 

Lost Tasmanian Race, 4s. 

BOSANQIJET, C., Blossoms 

from the King's Garden, 6s. 

Jehoshaphat, Is. 

Lenten Meditations, I. 

Is. Gd. ; II. 2s. 
Tender Grass for Lambs, 

2s. Gd. 
BOULTON, N. W. Rebellions, 

Canadian life, 9*. 

BOURKE, On the Border with 
Crook, illust., roy. 8vo, 21s. 

SnakeDance of Arizona, 21s. 

BOUSSENARD. See Low's 
Standard Books. 

BOWEN, F., Modern Philo- 
sophy, new ed. 16s. 

BOWER. See English Philo- 
sophers. 

Law of Electric Lighting, 

12s. Gd. 

BOYESEN, H. H., Against 
Heavy Odds, 5*. 

History of Norway, 7*. Qd. 



In all Departments of Literature, 



BOYESEFT, ModernViUngs, 6s. 
Boy's Froissart, King Arthur, 

Mabinogian, Percy, see " Lanier." 
BRAD SHAW, New Zealand 

as it is, 12s. 6rf. 

New Zealand of To-day, 1 4*. 

BRANNT, Fats and Oils, 35s. 

Soap and Candles, 35s. 

Vinegar, Acetates, 25s. 

Distillation of Alcohol, 

12s. 6d. 

Metal Worker's Receipts, 



12s. 6d. 

Metallic Alloys, 12s. 6d. 
and WAHL, Techno- 



Chemical Receipt Book, 10s. 6d. 
BRASSEY, LADY, Tahiti, 21s. 
FREMONT. See Low's Stan- 
dard Novels. 
BRETON, JULES, Life of an 

Artist, an autobiography, 7s. 6d. 
BRISSE, Menus and Recipes, 

new edit. 5s. 
Britons in Brittany, by G. H. F. 

2s. 6d. 
BROCK- ARNOLD. See Great 

Artists. 
BROOKS, NOAH, Boy Settlers, 

6s. 
BROWN, A. J., Rejected of 

Men, 3s. 6cZ. 
A. S. Madeira and Canary 

Islands for Invalids, 2s. 6d. 
Northern Atlantic, for 



travellers, 4s. 6d. 
ROBERT. See 



Low's 

Standard Novels. 
BROWNE, LENNOX, and 

BEHNKE, Voice, Song, fy Speech, 

15s. ; new edit. 5s. 

Voice Use, 3s. Qd. 

Sm T. See Bayard Series. 

BRYCE, G., Manitoba, 7s. 6d. 
Short History of the 

Canadian People, 7*. 6d. 



BUCHANAN, E. See Bayard 

Series. 
BULKELEY, OWEN T., Lesser 

Antilles, 2s. 6d. 

BUNYAN. See Low's Stan- 
dard Series. 

BURDETT-COUTTS, Brook- 

field tud, 5s. 

BURGOYNE, Operations in 
Egypt, 5s. 

BURNABY, F. See Low's 
Standard Library. 

MRS., High Alps in Win- 
ter, 14s. 

BURNLEY, JAMBS, History of 

Wool, 21s. 

BUTLER, COL. Sm W. F M 

Campaign of the Cataracts, 18s. 

Red Cloud, 7s. 6d. $ 5s. 

See also Low's Standard 

Books. 
BUXTON, ETHEL M. WILMOT, 

Wee Folk, 5s. 

See also Illust Text Books. 

BYNNER. See Low's Stan- 

dard Novels. 

CABLE, G. W.,Bonaventure, 5s. 

CADOGAN, LADY A., Drawing- 
room Comedies, illust. 10s. 6d., 
acting edit. 6d. 

Illustrated Games of 

Patience, col. diagrams, 12s. Qd. 

New Games of Patience, 

with coloured diagrams, 12s. 6d. 

CAHUN. See Low's Standard 
Books. 

CALDECOTT, RANDOLPH, 

Memoir, by H. Blackburn, new 
edit. 7s. 6d. and 5s. 

Sketches, pict. bds. 2s. Qd. 

CALL, ANNIE PAYSON, Power 
through Repose, 3s. 6d. 

CALLAN, H., M.A., Wander- 
ings on Wheel and Foot through 
Europe, Is. 6cZ. 

Cambridge Trifles, 2*. 6& 



A Select List of Books 



Cambridge Staircase, 2s. 6d. 
CAMPBELL, LADY COLIN, 

Book of the Running Brook, 5s. 
T. See Choice Editions. 

CANTERBURY, ARCHBISHOP. 

See Preachers. 
CARLETOX, WILL, City 

Ballads, illust. 12s. Gd. ' 

City Legends, ill. 12s. Gd. 

Farm Festivals, ill. 12s. 6^. 

See also Rose Library. 

CARLYLE, Irish Journey in 

1849, 7s. Gd. 

CARNEGIE, ANDREW, Ameri- 
can Four-in-hand in Britain, 

10s. Gd. ', also Is. 

Round the World, 1 Os. Qd. 

Triumphant Democracy, 

6s. j new edit. Is. Gd. ; paper, Is. 
CAROVE, Story without an 

End, illust. by E. V. B., 7s. Gd. 
Celebrated Racehorses, 4 vols. 

126s. 
CALIBRE. See Low's Stan- 

dard Books. 

Changed Cross, &c., poems, 2s. Qd. 
Chant-book Companion to the 

Common Prayer, 2s. ; organ ed. 4s. 
CHAPIN, Mountaineering in 

Colorado, 10s. Gd. 
CHAPLIN, J. G., Bookkeeping, 

2s. Gd. 
CHATTOCK, Notes on Etching 

new edit. 10s. Gd. 
CHERUBIM. See Great 

Musicians. 

CHESTERFIELD. See Ba- 
yard Series. 

Choice Editions of choice booJcs, 
illustrated by C. W. Cope, E.A., 
T. Creswick, R.A., E. Duncan, 
Birket Foster, J. 0. Horsley, 
A.R.A., G. Hicks, R. Redgrave, 
R.A., 0. Stonehouse, F. Tayler, 
G. Thomas, H, G. Townsend, 



Choice Editions continued. 
E. H. Wehnert, Harrison Weir, 
&c., cloth extra gilt, gilt edges, 
2s. Gd. each ; re-icsue, Is. each. 

Bloomfield's Farmer's Boy. 

Campbell's Pleasures of Hope. 

Coleridge's Ancient Mariner. 

Goldsmith's Deserted Village. 

Goldsmith's Vicar of Wakefield. 

Gray's Elegy in a Churchyard. 

Keats' Eve of St. Agnes. 

Milton's Allegro. 

Poetry of Nature, by H. Weir. 

Rogers' Pleasures of Memory. 

Shakespeare's Songs and Sonnets. 

Elizabethan Songs and Sonnets. 

Tennyson's May Queen. 

Wordsworth's Pastoral Poems. 

CHREIMAN, Physical Culture 

of Women, Is. 

CLARK, A., A Dark Place of 

the Earth, 6s. 

Mrs. K. M., Southern 

Cross Fairy Tale, 5s. 

CLARKE, C. C., Writers, 
and Letters, 10s. Gd. 

PERCY, Three Diggers, Gs. 

Valley Council; from T. 

Bateman's Journal, 6s. 

Classified Catalogue of ^English- 
printed Educational Works, 3rd 
edit. 6s. 

Claude le Lor rain. See Great 
Artists. 

CLOUGH, A. H., Plutarch's 

Lives, one vol. 18s. 
COLERIDGE, C. R., English 

Squire) Gs. 
S. T. See Choice Editions 

and Bayard Series. 

COLLINGWOOD, H. See 

Low's Standard Books. 
COLLINSON, Adm. SIR R., 

H.M.8. Enterprise in Search of 

Franklin, 14s. 

CONDER, J., Flowers of Japan; 
Decoration, coloured Japanese 
Plates, 42s. nett. 



In alt Departments of Literatiire. 



CORREGGIO. See Great 

Artists. 

COWLEY. See Bayard Series. 
COX, DAVID. See Great Artists. 
COZZENS, F., American 

Yachts, pfs. 211. ; art. pfs. 311. 10s. 

See also Low's Standard 

Books. 

CRADDOCK. See Low's 

Standard Novels. 

CREW, B. J., Petroleum, 21s. 
CRISTIANI, R. S., Soap and 

Candles, 42s. 

Perfumery, 25s. 

CROKER, MRS. B. M. See 

Low's Standard Novels. 
CROUCH, A. P., Glimpses of 

Feverland (West Africa), 6s. 

On a Surf-bound Coast, 

7s. Gd. ; new edit. 5s. 

CRUIKSHANK, G. See 

Great Artists. 
CUDWORTH, W., Abraham 

Sharp, 26s. 
CUMBERLAND, STUART, 

Thought-reader's Thoughts, IQs. Gd. 
See also Low's Standard 

Novels. 
CUNDALL, F. See Great 

Artists. 
J., Shakespeare, 3s. Qd., 

5s. and 2s. 

CURTIN, J., Myths of the Rus- 
sians, 10s. Gd. 

CURTIS, C. B., Velazquez and 
Murillo, with etchings, 31s. Gd. 
and 63s. 

GUSHING, W., Anonyms, 2- 
vols. 52s. 6d. 

Initials and Pseudonyms, 
25s. ; ser. II., 21s. 

CUTCLIFFE, H. C., Trout 

Fishing, new edit. 3s. 6d. 
DALY, MRS. D., Digging, 
Squatting, <$fc., in N. 8. Australia, 

123. 



D'ANVERS, N., Architecture 
and Sculpture, new edit. 5s. 

Elementary Art, Archi- 

tectiire, Sculpture, Painting, new 
edit. 10s. Gd. 

-Elementary History of 

Music, 2s. 6d. 
Painting, by F. Cundall, 

6s. 
DAUDET, A., My Brother 

Jack, 7s. 6d. j also 5s. 
Port Tarascon, by H. 

James, 7s. 6d. j new edit. 5s. 
DAYIES, C., Modern Whist, 

4s. 
DAVIS, C. T., BricTcs, Tiles, 

Sfc., new edit. 25*. 
Manufacture of Leather, 

52s. Gd. 

Manufacture of Paper, 28s. 

Steam Boiler Incrustation, 

8s. Gd. 
G. B., International Laiv t 

10s. Gd. 

DAWIDOWSKY, Glue, Gela- 
tine, frc., 12s. Gd. 
Day of my Life, by an Eton boy, 

new edit. 2s. Gd. ; also Is. 
DEJOIFVILLE. See Bayard 

Series. 
DE LEON, EDWIN, Under the 

Stars and Under the Crescent, 

2 vols. 12s. ; new edit. 6s. 
DELLA ROBBIA. See Great 

Artists. 
Denmaa^k and Iceland. See 

Foreign Countries. 

DENNETT, R. E., Seven Years 

among thv Fjort, 7s. Gd. 
DERRY (Bishop of). See 

Preachers. 

DE WINT. See Great Artists. 
DIGGLE, J. W., Bishop Fra- 

ser's Lancashire Life, new edit. 

12s. Gd. ; popular ed. 3.?. Gd. 

Sermons for Daily Life, 5s 



8 



A Select List of Books 



DOBSON, AUSTIN, Hogarth, 

with a bibliography, /fee., of 
prints, illust. 24s. ; 1. paper 52s. 6d. 

See also Great Artists. 

DODGE, MRS., Hans Brinker, 
the Silver Skates, new edit. 5s., 
3s. 6cL. 2s. 6d. ; text only, Is. 

DONKIN, J. G., Trooper and 
Redskin ; N. W. mounted police, 
Canada, 8s. 6d. 

DONNELLY, IGNATIUS, Atlan- 
tis, the Antediluvian World, new 
edit. 12s. 6d. 

Ccesar's Column, authorized 

edition, 3s. 6d. 

Doctor Huguet, 3s. 6d. 

Great Cryptogram, Bacon's 

Cipher in Shakespeare, 2 vols. 
30*. 

RagnaroJc : the Age of 

Fire and Gravel, 12s. Gd. 

DORK, GUSTAVB, Life and Re- 
miniscences, by Blanche Roose- 
velt, fully illust. 24s. 

DOS PASSOS, J. R., Law of 

Stockbrokers and Stock Exchanges, 
35s. 
DOUDNEY, SARAH, Godiva 

Durleigh, 3 vols. 31s. 6d. 
DOUGALL, J. D., Shooting 

Appliances, Practice) $"c., 10s. 6<i.j 

new edit. 7f. 6d. 
DOUGHTY, H. M., Friesland 

Meres and the Netherlands, new 

edit, illust. 10s. 6rf. 
DOVETON, F. B., Poems and 

Snatches of Songs, 5s. ; new edit. 

3s. 6d. 
DU CHAILLU, PAUL. See 

Low's Standard Books. 
DUNCKLEY ("Verax.") See 

Prime Ministers. 

DUNDERDALE, GEORGE, 

Prairie and Bush, 6s. 
Durer. See Great Artists. 
DYKES, J. OSWALD. See 

Preachers. 



Echoes from the Heart, 3*. 6d 
EDEN, C. H. See Foreign 

Countries. 
EDMONDS, C., Poetry of the 

Anti-Jacobin, new edit. 7s. 6<I. 

and 21s. 
Educational Catalogue. See 

Classified Catalogue. 

EDWARDS, American Steam 

Engineer, 12s. 6d. 

Modern Locomotive En- 
gines, 12s. Qd. 

Steam Engineer's Guide, 

12s. 6d. 

H. SUTHERLAND. See 

Great Musicians. 

M. B., Dream of Millions, 

&c., Is. 

See Low's Standard Novels. 

EGGLESTON, G. GARY, Jug- 
gernaut, 6s. 

Egypt. See Foreign Countries. 

Elizabethan Songs. See Choice 
Editions. 

EMERSON, DR. P. H., East 

Coast Yarns, Is. 

English Idylls, new ed. 2s. 

Naturalistic Photography, 

new edit. 5s. 
Pictures of East Anglian 

Life ; plates and vignettes, 105s. 

and 147s. 
and GOODALL, Life on 

the Norfolk Broads, plates, 126s. 

and 210s. 
Wild Life on a Tidal 

Water, copper plates, ord. edit. 
25s. ; edit, de luxe, 63s. 
- R. W., by G. W. COOKE, 

8s. 6d. 

Birthday Booh, 3s. 6d. 

In Concord, a memoir, 

7*. 6d. 
English Catalogue, 1863-71, 

42s. ; 1872-80, 42s. j 1881 -U, 

52s. 6d. j 5s. yearly. 



In all Departments of Literature. 



English Catalogue) Index vol. 

1837-56, 26s. j 1856-76, 42s.;- 

1874-80, 18s. 
Etchings, vol. v. 45s. ; vi., 

25s. ; vii., 25s. ; viii., 42s. 
English Philosophers, edited by 

E. B. Ivan Miiller, M.A., 3s. 6cZ. 

each. 

Bacon, by Fowler. 
Hamilton, by Monck. 
Hartley and James Mill, by Bower. 
Shaftesbury& Hutcheson ; Fowler. 
Adam Smith, by J. A. Farrer. 

ERCKMANN-CHATRIAN. 

See Low's Standard Books. 

ERICHSON, Life, by W. C. 

Church, 2 vols. 24s. 
ESMARCH, F., Handbook of 

Surgery, 24s. 
Essays on English Writers. 

See Gentle Life Series. 
EVANS, G. E., Repentance of 

Magdalene Despar, <Sfc., poems, 

5s. 
S. & F., Upper Ten, a 

story, Is. 

W. E., Songs of the Birds, 

n. ed. 6s. 

EVELYN, J., An Inca Queen, 

5s. 
JOHN, Life of Mrs. Godol- 

phin, 7s. 6d. 

EVES, C. W., West Indies, 

n. ed. 7s. 6cL 
FAIRBAIRN, A. M. See 

Preachers. 
Familiar Words. See Gentle 

Life Series. 
FARINI, G. A., Kalahari 

Desert, 21s. 
FARRAR, C. S., History of 

Sculpture, $"c., 6s. 

MAURICE, Minnesota, 6. 
FAURIEL, Last Days of the 

Consulate, 10s. 6d. 

FAY", T., Three Germany*, 2 
Tola. 35s. 



FEILDEN, H. ST. J., Some 

Public Schools, 2s. 6d. 
Mrs., My African Home, 

7s. 6d. 
FENN, G. MANVILLE. See 

Low's Standard Books. 
FENNELL, J. G., Book of the 

Roach, n. ed. 2s. 

FFORDE, B., Subaltern, Police- 
man, and the Little Girl. Is. 

Trotter, a Poona Mystery , 

Is. 

FIELD, MAUNSELL B., Memo- 
ries, 10s. 6ci. 

FIELDS, JAMES T., Memoirs, 

12s. 6d. 

- Yesterdays with Author 8 t 

16s. ; also 10s. 6d. 
Figure Painters of Holland. 

See Great Artists. 
FINCK, HENRY T., Pacific 

Coast Scenic Tour, 10s. 6d. 
FITCH, LUCY. See Nursing 

Record Series, Is. 
FITZGERALD. See Foreign 

Countries. 
PERCY, Book Fancier, 5*. 

and 12s. 6d. 

FITZPA.TRICK, T., Autumn 

Cruise in the ^Egean, 10s. 6d 

Transatlantic Holiday, 
10s. 6d. 

FLEMING, S., England and 
Canada, 6s. 

Foreign Countries and British 
Colonies, descriptive handbooks 
edited by F. S. Pulling, M.A. 
Each volume is the work of a 
writer who has special acquaint- 
ance with the subject, 3s. 6d. 

Australia, by Fitzgerald. 

Austria-Hungary, by Kay. 

Denmark and Iceland, by B. C.Otte". 

Egypt, by S. L. Poole. 

France, by Miss Eoberts. 

Germany, by L. Sergeant. 

Greece, by 3. Baring Gould. 



IO 



A Select List of Books 



Foreign Countries, &c. cont. 

Japan, by Mossman. 

Pern, by R. Markham. 

Kussia, by Morfill. 

Spain, by Webster. 

Sweden and Nor\A r ay, by Woods. 

West Indies, by C. H. Eden. 

FOREMAN", J., Philippine 

Islands, 21s. 
FOTHERINGHAM, L. M., 

Nyassaland, 7s. 6d. 
FOWLER, Japan, China, and 

India, 10s. Qd. 

ERA ANGELICO. See Great 

Artists. 

ERA BARTOLOMMEO, AL- 
BERTINELLI, and ANDREA 
DEL SARTO. See Great Artists. 

FRANC, MAUD JEANNE, Seat- 
rice Melton, 4s. 

Emily's CJioice, n. ed. 5s. 

Golden Gifts, 4s. 

Hall's Vineyard, 4s. ' 

Into the Light, 4s. 

John's Wife, 4s. 

Little Mercy; for better, 

/or worse, 4s. 

Marian, a Tale, n. ed. 5s. 

Master of Ralston, 4s. 

Minnie's Mission, a Tem- 
perance Tale, 4s. 

No longer a Child, 4s. 

Silken Cords and Iron 
Fetters, a Tale, 4s. 

Two Sides to Every Ques- 
tion, 4s. 

Vermont Vale, 5s. 

A plainer edition is published at 
2s. 6d. 

France. See Foreign Countries. 
FRANCIS, F., War, Waves, 

and Wanderings, 2 vols. 24s. 

See also Low's Staridard 

Series. 

Frank's Ranche ; or, My Holi- 
day in the Rockies, n. od. 5, 



FRANKEL, JULIUS, Starch 
Glucose, Sec., 18*. 

FRASER, BISHOP, Lancashire 
Life, n. ed. 12s. Qd.; popular ed. 
3s. 6d. 

FREEMAN, J., Melbourne Life, 

lights and shadows, 6s. 
FRENCH, F.,/fowe Fairies and 

Heart Flowers, illust. 24s. 
French and English Birthday 

BooJc, by Kate D. Clark, 7s. 6d. 
French Revolution, Letters from 

Paris, translated, 10s. Gd. 
Fresh Woods and Pastures New, 

by the Author of "An Angler's 

Days," 5s., Is. 6d., Is. 
FRIEZE, Dupre, Florentine 

Sculptor, 7s. Qd. 
FRISWELL, J. H. See Gentle 

Life Series. 
Froissart for Boys, by Lanier, 

new ed. 7s. Gd. 
FliOIJDE, J. A. See Prime 

Ministers. 
Gainsborough and Constable. 

See Great Artists. 
GASPARIN, Sunny Fields and 

Shady Woods, 6s. 
GEFFCKEN, British Empire, 

7s. 6d. 

Generation of Judges, n. e. 7s.6d. 
Gentle Life Series, edited by J. 

Ham Friswell, sm. 8vo. 6s. per 

vol.; calf extra, 10s. 6d. ea.; 16mo, 

2s. Qd., except when price is given. 
Gentle Life. 
About in the World. 
Like unto Christ. 
Familiar Words, 6s. ; also 3s. 6d. 
Montaigne's Essays. 
Sidney's Arcadia, 6s. 
Gentle Life, second series. 
Varia; readings, 10s. 6d. 
Silent hour ; essays. 
Half-length Portraits. 
Essays on English Writers. 
Other People's Windows, 6s. &2s. 6d. 
A Man's Thoughts. 



In all Departments of Literature. 



ii 



George Eliot, by G. W. Cooke, 
10s. Qd. 

Germany. See Foreign Coun- 
tries. 

GESSI, ROMOLO PASHA, Seven 

Years in the Soudan, 18s. 

GHIBERTI & DONATELLO. 
See Great Artists. 

GILES, E., Australia Twice 
Traversed, 1872-76, 2 vols. 30s. 

GILL, J. See Low's Readers. 

GILLESPIE, W. M., Survey- 
ing, n. ed. 21s. 

Giotto, by Harry Quilter, illust. 
15s. 

See also Great Artists. 

GIRDLESTONE, C., Private 

Devotions, 2s. 
GLADSTONE. See Prime 

Ministers. 
GLENELG, P., Devil and the 

Doctor, Is. 
GLOVER, R., Light of the 

World, n. ed., 2s. Qd. 
GLTJCK. See Great Musicians. 
Goethe's Faustus, in orig. rhyme, 

by Huth, 5s. 
Prosa, by C. A. Buchheim 

(Low's German Series), 3s. 6d. 

GOLDSMITH, 0., She Stoops 
to Conquer, by Austin Dobson, 
illust. by E. A. Abbey, 84s. 

See also Choice Editions. 

GOOCH, EANNY C., Mexicans, 
16s. 

GOODALL, Life and Land- 
scape on the Norfolk Broads, 126s. 
and 210s. 

. : &EMERSON, Pictures of 

East Anglian Life,5 5s. and 7 7s. 

GOODMAN, E. J., The Best 
Tour in Norway, 6s. 

N. & A., Fen Skating, 5s. 

GOODYEAR,W. H., Grammar 
of the Lotus, Ornament and Sun 
Worship, 63s, nett. 



GORDON, J. E. H., Physical 
Treatise on Electricity and Mag- 
netism. 3rd ed. 2 vols. 42s. 

Electric Lighting, 18$. 

School Electricity, 5s. 

Mrs. J". E. H., Decorative 

Electricity, illust. 12s. 

GOWER, LORD RONALD, Hand- 
book to the Art Galleries of Belgium 
and Holland, 5s. 

Northbrook Gallery, 63s. 

and 105s. 

Portraits at CastleHoivard. 

2 vols. 126s. 

See also Great Artists. 

GRAESSI, Italian Dictionary, 
3s. Qd.-, roan, 5s. 

GRAY, T. See Choice Eds. 

Great Artists, Biographies, 
illustrated, emblematical bind- 
ing, 3s. 6d. per vol. except where 
the price is given. 

Barbizon School, 2 vols. 

Claude le Lorrain. 

Correggio,2s. Qd. 

Cox and De Wint. 

George Cruikshank. 

Delia Eobbia and Cellini, 2s. Qd. 

Albrecht Diirer. 

Figure Paintings of Holland. 

Fra Angelico, Masaccio, &c. 

Fra Bartolommeo, &c. 

Gainsborough and Constable. 

Ghiberti and Donatello, 2s. Qd. 

Giotto, by H. Quilter, 15s. 

Hogarth, by A, Dobson. 

Hans Holbein. 

Landscape Painters of Holland. 

Land seer. 

Leonardo da Vinci. 

Little Masters of Germany, by 
Scott ; ed. de luxe, 10s. 6d. 

Mantegna and Francia. 

Meissonier, 2s. Qd. 

Michelangelo. 

Mulready. 

Murillo, by Minor, 2s. 6d. 

Overbeck. 

Raphael. 



12 



A Select List of Books 



Great Artists continued. 

Rembrandt. 

Reynolds. 

Romney and Lawrence, 2s. 6<J. 

Rubens, by Kett. 

Tintoretto, by Osier. 

Titian, by Heath. 

Turner, by Monkhouse. 

Vandyck and Hals. 

Velasquez. 

Vernet & Delaroche. 

Watteau, by Mollett, 2s. 6<Z. 

Wilkie, by Mollett. 

Great Musicians, edited by 
F. Hueffer. A series of bio- 
graphies, 3s. each : 

Bach, by Poole. 

Beethoven. 

*Berlioz. 

Cherufcini. 

English Church Composers. 

*Gliick. 

Handel. 

Haydn. 

*Marcello. 

Mendelssohn. 

Mozart. 

*Palestrina and the Roman School. 

Purcell. 

Rossini and Modern Italian School. 

Schubert. 

Schumann. 

Richard Wagner. 

Weber. 

* Are not yet published. 

Greece. See Foreign Countries. 

GRIEB, German Dictionary, n. 
ed. 2 vols. 21s. 

GRIMM, H., Literature, 8s. 6d. 

GROHMANN, Camps in the 

Rockies, 12s. 6d. 

GROVES, J. PERCY. See 

Low's Standard Books. 
GUIZOT, History of England, 

illust. 3 vols. re-issue at 10s. 6d. 

per vol. 
History of France, illust. 

tissue, 8 vols. 105. 6d. each. 

Abridged by Q-. Masson, 6*. 

GUYON, MADAME, Life, Qs. 



HADLEY, J., Roman Law, 
7s. 6d. 

Half-length Portraits. See 
Gentle Life Series. 

HALFORD, F. M., Dry Fly- 
fishing, n. ed. 25s. 

Floating Flies, 15s. & 30o-. 

HALL, How to Live Long, 2s. 

HALSEY, F. A., Slide Valve 
Gears, 8s. 6d. 

HAMILTON. See English 
Philosophers. 

E. Fly-Jlshing, 6s. and 

10s. 6cZ. 

Riverside Naturalist, 14s. 



HAMILTON'S Mexican Hand- 
loolf, 8s. 6(2. 

HANDEL. See Great Musi- 
cians. 

HANDS, T., Numerical Exer- 
cises in Chemistry, 2s. 6d. ; with- 
out ans. 2s.; ans. sep. Gd. 

Handy Guide to Dry-fly Fishing , 
by Cotswold Isys, Is. 

Handy Guide Boole to Japanese 
Islands, 6s. 6d. 

HARDY, A. S., Passe-rose, 6s. 

THOS. See Low's Stand- 
ard Novels. 

HARKUT, F., Conspirator, 6s. 

HARLAND, MARION, Home 
Kitchen, 5s. 

Harper's Young People, vols. 
I. VII. 7s. 6d. each ; gilt 8*. 

HARRIES, A. See Nursing 

Record Series. 

HARRIS, W. B., Land of the 

African Sultan, 10s. 6d. ; 1. p. 

31s. 6d. 
HARRISON, MARY, Modern 

Cookery, 6s. 

Skilful Cook, n. ed. 5s. 

MRS. B. Old-fashioned 

Fairy Book, 6s. 
W., London Houses, Illust. 

n. edit. Is. 64., 65. net ; & 2s. 6d. 



In all Departments of Literature. 



HARTLEY and MILL. See 
English Philosophers. 

HATTON, JOSEPH, Journalistic 

London, 12s. 6d. 
See also Low's Standard 

Novels. 
HAWEIS, TL.R.,Broad Church, 

6s. 
Poets in the Pulpit, 'lOs.Qd. 

new edit. 6s. ; also 3s. 6d. 

Mrs., Housekeeping, 2s. 6d. 

Beautiful Houses, is., new 

edit. 1*. 

HAYDN. See Great Musicians. 
HAZLITT, W., Hound TaUe, 

2s 6d. 

.HEAD, PERCY K. See Illus. 

Text Books and Great Artists. 
HEAED, A.F., Russian Church, 

16s. 

ITEARN, L., Youma, 5s. 
HEATH, F. G., Fern World, 

12s. 6d., new edit. 6*. 
GERTRUDE, Tell us Why, 

2s. Gd. 
HELDMANN, B., Mutiny of 

the " Leander," 7s. 6d. and 5s. 

See also Low's Standard 
Books for Boys. 

HENTY, G. A., Hidden Foe, 
2 vols. 21s. 

See also Low's Standard 

Books for Boys. 

RICHMOND, Australiana, 
5s. 

HERBERT, T., Salads and 

Sandwiches, Gd. 
HICKS, C. S., Our Boys, and 

what to do with Them; Merchant 

Service, 5s. 
Yachts, Boats, and Canoes, 

10s. Gd. 
HIGGINSON, T. W., Atlantic 

Essays, 6s. 
History of the U.S., illust. 

145. 



HILL, A. STAVELEY, From 
Home to Home in N.-W. Canada, 
21s., new edit. 7s. Gd. 

G-. B., Footsteps of John- 
son, 63s, ; edition de luxe, 147s. 

HINMAN, R., Eclectic Physi- 
cal Geography, 5s. 

Hints on proving Wills without 
Professional Assistance, n. ed. Is. 

HOEY, Mrs. CASHEL. See 
Low's Standard Novels. 

HOFFER, Caoutchouc $ Gutta 
Percha, 12s. 6d. 

HOGARTH. See Gr. Artists. 

HOLBEIN. See Great Artists. 

HOLDER, CHARLES F., Ivory 
King, 8s. 6d. 

Living Lights, 8s. 6d. 

Marvels of Animal Life, 
8s. 6d. 

HOLM, SAXE, Draxy Miller, 

2s. Gd. and 2s. 
HOLMES, 0. WENDELL, Before 

the Curfew, 5s. 

Over the Tea Cups, Qs. 

Iron Gate, fyc., Poems, Qs. 

Last Leaf, 42s. 

Mechanism in Thought 

and Morals, Is. 6d. 
Mortal Antipathy, 8s. Gd., 

2s. and Is. 
Our Hundred Days in 

Europe, new edit. 6s. ; 1. paper 

15s. 

Poetical Works, new edit., 
2 vols. 10s. Gd. 

Works, prose, 10 vols. ; 
poetry, 4 vols. ; 14 vols. 84s. 
Limited large paper edit., 14 vols. 
294s. nett. 

See also Low's Standard 
Novels and Rose Library. 

HOLUB, E., South Africa, 

2 vols. 42s. 

HOPKINS, MANLEY, Treatise 
on the Cardinal Numbers, 2t, 6d. 



A Select List of Books 



Horace in Latin, with Smart's 
literal translation, 2s. Gd. j trans- 
lation only, Is. Gd. 

HOR.ETZKY, C., Canada on 

the Pacific, 5s. 
Solo and ivhere to Fisli in 

Ireland, by H. Regan, 3s. 6d. 
HOWARD, BLANCHE W., Tony 

the Maid, 3s. Gd. 
See also Low's Standard 

Novels. 
HOWELLS, W. D., Suburban 

Sketches, 7s. 6d. 
Undiscovered Country, 

3s. Gd. and Is. 

HOWORTH, H. H., Glacial 
Nightmare, 18s. 

Mammoth and the Flood, 

18s. 

HUDSON, N. H., Purple Land 
that England Lost; Banda Orien- 
tal 2 vote. 21*. : 1 vol. 6s. 

HUEFFER. E. See Great 
Musicians. 

HUGHES, HUGH PRICE. See 

Preachers. 
HUME, F., Creature of the 

Night, Is. 
Humorous Art at the Naval 

Exhibition, Is. 

HUMPHREYS, JENNET, Some 
Little Britons in Brittany, 2s. 6d. 

Hundred Greatest Men, new 
edit, one vol. 21s. 

HUNTINGDON, The Squire's 
Nieces, 2s. Gd. (Playtime Library.) 

HYDE, Hundred Years by 
Post, Is. 

Hymnal Companion to the 
Boole of Common Prayer, separate 
lists gratis. 

Iceland. See Foreign Countries. 

Illustrated Text-Boohs of Art- 
Education, edit, by E. J. Poynter, 
R.A., illnst. 5s. each. 

Architecture, Classic and Early 
Christian. 



Illust. Text-Books continued. 

Architecture, Gothic and Renais- 
sance. 

German, Flemish, and Dutch 
Painting. 

Painting, Classic and Italian. 

Painting, English and American. 

Sculpture, modern. 

Sculpture, by G. Redford. 

Spanish and French artists. 

INDERWICK, F. A., Inter- 

regnum, 10s. Gd. 
Sidelights on the Stuarts, 

new edit. 7s. Gd, 
INGELOW, JEAN. See Low's 

Standard Novels. 
INGLIS, Our New Zealand 

Cousins, 6s. 
" Sport and Work on the 

Nepaul Frontier, 21s. 
Tent Life in Tiger Land, 

18s. 
IRVING, W., Little Britain, 

10s. Gd. and 6s. 

Works, " Geoffrey Cray- 
on " edit. 27 vols. 161. 16s. 
JACKSON, J., Handwriting 

in Relation to Hygiene, 3d. 

New Style Vertical Writing 

Copy-Books, Series I. 18, 2d. 

and Id. each. 
New Code Copy-Books, 

22 Nos. 2d. each. 
Shorthand of Arithmetic, 

Companion to all Arithmetics, 

1*. 6d. 

L., Ten Centuries of Euro- 
pean Progress, with maps, 12s. Gd. 
JAMES, CROAKE, Law and 

Lawyers, new edit. 7s. Gd. 

HENRY. See Daudet, A. 

JAMES and MOLD'S French 

Dictionary , 3s. 6d. cloth ; roan, 5s. 
JAMES, German Dictionary, 

3s. Gd. cloth j roan 5s. 
JANVIER, Aztec Treasure 

House, 7s. Gd. j new edit. 5*. 



In all Departments of Literature. 



Japan. See Foreign Countries. 
JEFFERIES, RICHARD, Ama- 
ryllis at the Fair, 7s. Gd. 

Bevis, new edit. 5s, 

JEPHSON, A. J. M., Emin 

Pasha relief expedition, 21s. 
JERDON. See Low's Standard 

Series. 
JOHNSTON, H.K.,The Congo, 

21s. 
JOHNSTON-LAVIS, H. J., 

South Italian Volcanoes, 15s. 
JOHNSTONE, D. L., Land of 

the Mountain Kingdom, new edit. 

3s. 6d. and 2s. Gd. 
JONES, MBS. HERBERT, San- 

dringham, Past and Present, 

illust., new edit. 8s. Gd. 
JULIEN, F., Conversational 

French Reader, 2s. Gd. 
English Student's French 

Examiner, 2s. 

First Lessons in Conversa- 
tional French Grammar, n. ed. Is. 
French at Home and at 

School, Book I. accidence, 2s. j 

key, 3s. 

Petit es Lemons de Conver- 
sation et de Orammaire, n. ed. 3s. 
Petites Lemons, with 

phrases, 3s. Gd. 
Phrases of Daily Use, 

separately, Gd. 
KARR, H. W. SETON, Shores 

and Alps of Alaska, 16s. 

KARSLAND, VEVA, Women 

and their Work, Is. 

KAY. See Foreign Countries. 

KENNEDY, E. B., Blacks and 
Bushrangers, new edit. 5s., 3s. Gd. 
and 2s. Gd. 

KERR, W. M., Far Interior, 
the Cape, Zambesi, fyc., 2 rols. 32s. 

KERSHAW, S. W., Protest- 
ants from France in their English 
Home, Gs. 

KETT, C. W., Rulens, 3s. Gd. 



Khedives and Pashas, 7s. 6d. 

KILNER, E. A., Four Welsh 

Counties, 5s. 
King and Commons. See Cavalier 

in Bayard Series. 
KINGSLEY, R. G., Children 

of Westminster Abbey, 5s. 

KINGSTON. See Low's 

Standard Books. 
KIPLING, RUDYARD, Soldiers 

Three, fyc., stories, Is. 
Story of the Gadsuys, new 

edit. 1*. 
In Black and White, &c., 

stories, Is. 

Wee Willie Wirikie, $c., 

stories, Is. 

Under the Deodars, c. y 

stories, Is. 

Phantom Rickshaw, $c., 

stories, Is. 
*%* The six collections of storied 

may also be had in 2 vols. 3s. 6cZ. 

each. 
Stories , Library Edition, 

2 vols. 6s. each. 

KIRKALDY, W. G., David 

Kirkaldy's Mechanical Testing, 84s. 

KNIGHT, A. L., In the Web 

of Destiny, 7s. 6d. 

E. F., Cruise of the Fal- 

con, new edit. 3s. 6d. 

E. J., Albania and Monte- 
negro, 12s. 6d. 

V. C., Church Unity, 5s. 

KNOX, T. W., Soy Travellers, 
new edit. 5s. 

KNOX-LITTLE, W. J., Ser- 

mons, 3s. Gd. 

KUNHARDT, C. P., Small 

Yachts, new edit. 50s. 

Steam Yachts, 16s. 

KWONG, English Phrases, 21s. 
LABOULLAYE, E., Abdalldh, 

2s. Gd. 
L ALANNE, Etching, 1 2s. 6d. 



i6 



A Select List of Books 



LAMB, CHAS., Essays of Elia, 
with designs by C. O. Murray, 6s. 

LAMBERT, Angling Litera- 
ture, 3s. 6d. 

Landscape Painters of Holland. 
See Great Artists. 

LANDSEER. See Great Ar- 
tists. 

LANGLEY, S. P., New Astro- 
nomy, 10s. 6d. 

LANIER, S., Boy's Froissart, 
7s. Gd.; King Arthur, 7s. 6d. ; 
Malinogion, 7s. 6d. ; Percy, 7s. fid. 

LANSDRLL, HENRY, Through 
Siberia, 1 v. 15s. and 10s. 6d. 

Russia in Central Ana, 

2 vols. 42s. 

Through Central Asia, 12s. 

LARD EN, W., School Course 
on Heat, n. ed. 5s. 

LAURIE, A., Secret of the 
Magian, the Mystery of Ecbatana, 
illus. 6s. See also Low's Standard 
Books. 

LAWRENCE, SERGEANT, Auto- 
biography, 6s. 

andROMNEY. See Great 

Artists. 

LA YARD, MRS., West Indies, 
2s. 6d. 

LEA, H. C., Inquisition, 3 vols. 
42s. 

LEARED, A., Marocco, n. ed. 
16s. 

LEAYITT, New World Trage- 
dies, 7s. fid. 

LEFFINGWELL, W. B., 

Shooting, 18s. 
Wild Fowl Shooting, 

10s. 6d. 
LEFROY, W., DEAN. See 

Preachers. 

LELAND, 0. G., Algonquin 
Legends, 8s. 

LEMON, M., Small House ovtr 
the Water, Gt. 



Leo XIII. Life, 18s. 

Leonardo da Vinci. See Great 

Artists. 
Literary Works, by J. P. 

Eichter, 2 vols. 252s. 
LIEBER, Telegraphic Cipher, 

42s. nett. 
Lilce unto CJirist. See Gentle 

Life Series. 

LITTLE, ARCH. J., Yang-tse 

Gorges, n. ed., 10s. 6d. 
Little Masters of Germany. See 

Great Artists. 
LONGFELLOW, Miles Stan- 

dish, illus. 21s. 
Maidenhood, with col. pi. 

2s. 6d. ; gilt edges, 3s. 6d. 
Nuremberg, pliotogr. illu. 

31s. 6d. 
Song of Hiawatha, illust. 

21s. 
LOOMIS, E., Astronomy, n. ed. 

8.?. 6d. 
LORNE, MARQUIS OP, Canada 

and Scotland, 7s. 6d. 

Palmerston. See Prime 

Ministers. 

Louis, St. See Bayard 

Series. 
Low's French Headers, edit, by 

C. F. Clifton, I. 3d., II. 3d., lit. 

6d. 
German Series. See 

Goethe, Meissner, Sandars, and 

Schiller. 

London Charities, annu- 
ally, Is. 6d. ; sewed, Is. 

Illustrated Germ. Primer t 

Is. 

Infant Primers, I. illus. 

3d. ; II. illns. 6d. and 7d. 

Pocket Encyclopcedia, with 

plates, 3s. 6d. ; roan, 4s. 6d. 

headers, I., 9d. ; II., 

III., Is.; IV., Is. 3d.;V.,.l. 
VI., U 6d. 



In all Departments of Literature. 



Low's Select Parchment Series. 
Aldrich (T. B.) Friar Jerome's 

Beautiful Book, 3s. Qd. 
Lewis (Rev. Gerrard), Ballads of 

the Cid, 2s. 6d. 
Whittier (J. G.) The King's Missive. 

3s. 6d. 
Low's Stand. library of Travel 

(except where price is stated), per 

volume, 7s. 6d. 

1. Butler, Great Lone Land; also 
3s. 6d. 

2. Wild North Land. 

3. Stanley (H. M.) Coomassie, 
3s. Qd. 

4. How I Fonnd Livingstone ; 

also 3s. 6d. 

5. Through the Dark Con- 
tinent, 1 vol. illust., 12s. Qd. j also 
3*. 6d. 

8. MacGahan (J. A.) Oxtts. 

9. Spry, voyage, Challenger. 

10. Burnaby's Asia Minor, 10s. 6cZ. 

11. Schweinfurth's Heart of Africa, 
2 vols. 15s. ; also 3s. 6d. each.i 

12. Mar shall (W.) Through America. 

13. Lansdell (H). Through Siberia, 
10s. 6d. 

14. Coote, South by East, 10s. 6d. 

15. Knight, Cruise of the Falcon, 
also 3s. 6d. 

16. Thomson (Joseph) Through 
Masai Land. 

19. Ashe (R. P.) Two Kings of 
Uganda, 3s. 6<Z. 

Low's Standard Novels (except 
where price is stated), 6s. 

Baker, John Westacott. 

Black (W.) Craig Royston. 

Daughter of Heth. 

House Boat. 

Tn Far Lochaber. 

In Silk Attire. 

Kilmeny. 

Lady Siverdale'a Sweet- 
heart. 

New Prince Fortunatus. 

Penance of John Logan. 

Stand Fast, Craig Eoyston ! 

Sunrise. 

Three Feathers. 



Low's Stand. Novels continued 
Blackmore (R. D.) Alice Lorraine. 

Christowell. 

Clara Vaughan. 

Cradock No well. 

Cripps the Carrier. 

Ereme, or My Father's Sins. 

Kit and Kitty. 

Lorna Doone. 

Mary Anerley. 

Sir Thomas Upmore. 

Springhaven. 

Bremont, Gentleman Digger. 
Brown (Robert) Jack Abbott's Log. 
Bynner, Agnes Surriage. 

Begum's Daughter. 

Cable (G. W.) Bona venture, 5s. 
Coleridge (C. R.) English Squire. 
Craddock, Despot of Broomsedge. 
Croker (Mrs. B. M.) Some One Else. 
Cumberland (Stuart) Vasty Deep. 
De Leon, Under the Stars and 

Crescent. 

Edwards (Miss Betham) Half-way. 
Eggleston, Juggernaut. 
French Heiress in her own Chateau. 
Gilliat (E.) Story of the Dragon- 

nades. 
Hardy (A. S.) Passe-rose. 

(Thos.) Far from the Madding. 

Hand of Ethelberta. 

Laodicean. 

Mayor of Casterbridge. 

Pair of Blue Eyes. 

Return of the Native. 

Trumpet -Major. 

Two on a Tower. 

Harkut, Conspirator. 

Hatton (J.) Old House at Sand. 

wich. 

Three Recruits. 

Hoey (Mrs. Cashel) Golden Sorrow. 

Out of Court. 

Stern Chase. 

Howard (Blanche W.) Open Door. 
Ingelow (Jean) Don John. 

John Jerome, 5s. 

Sarah de Berenger. 

Lathrop, Newport, 5s. 

Mac Donald (Geo.) Adela Cathcart. 

Guild Court. 



i8 



A Select List of Books 



Low's Stand. Novels continued. 

Mac Donald (Geo.) Mary Marston. 

Orts. 

Stephen Archer, &c. 

The Vicar's Daughter. 

Weighed and Wanting. 

Macmaster, Our Pleasant Vices. 

Macquoid (Mrs.) Diane. 

Musgrave (Mrs.) Miriam. 

Osborn, Spell of Ashtaroth, 5s. 

Prince Maskilofl'. 

Riddell (Mrs.) Alaric Spenceley. 

Daisies and Buttercups. 

Senior Partner. 

Struggle for Fame. 

Russell (W. Clark) Betwixt the 
Forelands. 

Frozen Pirate. 

Jack's Courtship. 

John Holdsworth. 

Little Loo. 

My Watch Below. 

Ocean Free Lanoe. 

Sailor's Sweetheart. 

Sea Queen. 

Strange Voyage. 

The Lady Maud. 

Wreck of the Grosvenor. 

Steuart, Kilgroom. 

Stockton (F. R.) Ardis Claverden. 

Bee-man of Orn, 5s. 

Hundredth Man. 

The late Mrs. Null. 

Stoker, Snake's Pass. 

Stowe (Mrs.) Old Town Folk. 

Poganuc People. 

Thomas, House on the Scar. 

Thomson, Ulu, an African Ro- 
mance. 

Tourgee, Murvale Eastman. 

Tytler (S.) Duchess Frances. 

Vane, From the Dead. 

Wallace (Lew.) Ben Hur. 

Warner, Little Journey in the 
World. 

Woolson (Constance Fenimore) 
Anne. 

East Angles. 

For the Major, 5s. 

Jupiter Lights. 

See also Sea Stories. 



Low's Stand. Novels, new issue 
at short intervals, 2s. Qd. and 2s. 
Blackmore, Alice Lorraine. 

Christowell. 

Clara Vaughan. 

Cripps the Carrier. 

Kit and Kitty. 

Lorna Doone. 

Mary Anerley. 

Tommy Upmore. 

Cable, Bonaventure. 

Croker, Some One Else. 

Cumberland, Vasty Deep. 

Do Leon, Under the Stars. 

Edwards, Half-way. 

Hardy, Laodicean. 

Madding Crowd. 

Mayor of Casterbridgo. 

Trumpet-Major, 

Two on a Tower. 

Hatton, Old House at Sandwich. 

Three Recruits. 

Hoey, Golden Sorrow. 

Out of Court. 

Sfcern Chase. 

Holmes, Guardian Angel. 

Ingelow, John Jerome. 

Sarah de Berenger. 

Mao Donald, Adela Cathcart. 

Guild Court. 

Stephen Archer. 

Vicar's Daughter. 

Oliphant, Innocent. 

Riddell, Daisies and Buttercups. 

Senior Partner. 

Stockton, Bee-man of Orn, 5s. 

Dusantes. 

Mrs. Leeks and Mrs. Aleshino. 

Stowe, Dred. 

Old Town Polk. 

Poganuc People.' 

Thomson, Ulu. 

Walford, Her Great Idea, &c., 
Stories. 

Low's German Series, a gradu- 
ated course. See " German." 

Low's Readers. See English 
Reader and French Reader. 

Low's Standard Books for Soys, 
with numerous illustrations, 
2s. 6d. each ; gilt edges, 3s. 6d. 



In all Departments of Literature. 



Low's Stand. Books for Boys 

continued. 
Adventures in New Guinea : the 

Narrative of Louis Tregance. 
Biart (Lucien) Adventures of a 

Young Naturalist. 

My Rambles in the New World. 

Boussenard, Crusoes of Guiana. 
Gold Seekers, a sequel to the 

above. 
Butler (Col. Sir Wm., K.C.B.) Red 

Cloud, the Solitary Sioux : a Tale 

of the Great Prairie. 
Cahun (Leon) Adventures of Cap- 
tain Mago. 

Blue Banner. 

Celiere, Startling Exploits of the 

Doctor. 
Chaillu (Paul du) Wild Life under 

the Equator. 
Collingwood (Harry) Under the 

Meteor Flag. 

Voyage of the Aurora. 

Cozzens (S. W.) Marvellous Country. 
Dodge (Mrs.) Hans Brinker; or, 

The Silver Skates. 
Du Chaillu (Paul) Stories of the 

Gorilla Country. 
Erckmann - Chatrian, Brothers 

Rantzau. 

Fenn(G.Manville) Off to the Wilds. 
Silver Canon. 
Groves (Percy) Charmouth Grange; 

a Tale of the 17th Century. 
Heldmann (B.) Mutiny on Board 

the Ship Leander. 
Henty (G. A.) Cornet of Horse : a 

Tale of Marlborough's Wars. 
Jack Archer: a Tale of the 

Crimea. 
Winning his Spurs : a Tale of 

the Crusades. 
Johnstone (D. Lawson) Mountain 

Kingdom. 

Kennedy (E. B.) Blacks and Bush- 
rangers in Queensland. 
Kingston (W. H. G.) Ben Burton ; 

or, Born and Bred at Sea. 

Captain Mugford ; or, Our 
Salt and Fresh Water Tutors. 

Dick Cheveley. 

Heir of Kilfinnan, 



Low's Stand. Books for Boys 

continued. 
Kingston (W. H. G.) Snowshoea 

and Canoes. 

Two Supercargoes. 

With Axe and Rifle on. the 

Western Prairies. 
Laurie (A.) Conquest of the Moon. 
New York to Brest in Seven 

Hours. 
MacGregor (John) A Thousand 

Miles in the Rob Roy Canoe on 

Rivers and Lakes of Europe. 
Maclean (H. E.) Maid of the Ship 

Golden Age. 
Meunier, Great Hunting Grounds 

of the World. 

Muller, Noble Words and Deeds. 
Perelaer, The Three Deserters; 

or, Ran Away from the Dutch. 
Reed (Talbot Baines) Sir Ludar : a 

Tale of the Days of the Good 

Queen Bess. 
Rousselet (Louis) Drummer-boy : a 

Story of the Time of Washington. 

King of the Tigers. 

Serpent Charmer. 

Son of the Constable of 

France. 

Russell (W. Clark) Frozen Pirates. 
Stanley, My Kalulu Prince, King 

and Slave. 
Winder (F. H.) Lost in Africa. 

Low's Standard Series of Books 
by popular writers, cloth gilt, 
2s. ; gilt edges, 2s. 6d. each. 

Alcott (L. M.) A Rose in Bloom. 

An Old-Fashioned Girl. 

Aunt Jo's Scrap Bag. 

Eight Cousins, illust. 

Jack and Jill. 

5 Jimmy's Cruise. 

| Little Men. 

! LittleWomen and LittleWomen 

Wedded. 
J Lulu's Library, illust. 

Shawl Straps. 

Silver Pitchers. 

Spinning- Wheel Stories. 

Under the Lilacs, illust. 

-Work and Beginning Again, ill. 



20 



A Select List of Books 



Low's Stand. Series continued. 
Alden ( W. L.) Jimmy Brown, illust. 

Trying to Find Europe. 

Bunyan (John) Pilgrim's Progress, 

(extra volume), gilt, 2s. 
De Witt (Madame) An Only Sister. 
Francis (Francis) Eric and Ethel, 

illust. 

Holm (Saxe) Draxy Miller's Dowry. 
Jerdon (Gert.) Keyhole Country, 

illnst. 
Robinson (Phil) In My Indian 

Garden. 

Under the Punkah. 

Roe (E. P.) Nature's Serial Story. 
Saintine, Picciola. 
Samuels, Forecastle to Cabin, illust. 
Sandeau (Jules) Seagull Eock. 
Stowe (Mrs.) Dred. 

Ghost in the Mill, &o. 

My Wife and I. 

We and our Neighbours. 

See also Low's Standard Series. 
Tooley (Airs.) Life of Harriet 

Beecher Stowe. 
Warner (C. Dudley) In the Wilder- 

ness. 

My Summer in a Garden. 

Whitney (Mrs.) A Summer in Leslie 

Goldthwaite's Life. 

Faith Garfcney's Girlhood. 

Hitherto. 

Real Folks. 

The Gayworthys. 

We Girls. 

The Other Girls : a Sequel. 

*#* A new illustrated list of books 
for boys and girls, with, portraits 
of celebrated authors, sent post 
free on application. 

LOWELL, J. R, Among my 

Books, Series I. and II., 7s. Qd. 

each. 
My Study Windows y n. ed. 

Is. 
. Vision of Sir Launfal. 

illus. 63s. 

MACDONALD, A., Our Scep- 
tred Isle, 3s. 6d. 
D., Oceania, 6s. 



MACDONALD, GEO., Castle 
Warlock, a Homely Romance, 3 
vols. 31s. 6d. 

1 See also Low's Standard 

Novels. 

SIR JOHN A., Life. 

MACDOWALL, ALEX. B., 

Curve Pictures of London, Is. 
MACGAHAN, J. A., Oxus, 

7s. 6d. 

MACGOUN, Commercial Cor- 
respondence, 5s. 
MACGREGOR, J., Rob Eoy in 

the Baltic, n. e*d. 3s. 6d. and 2s. 6d. 
Rob Roy Canoe, new edit., 

3s. 6d. and 2s. 6d. 
Yawl Mob Roy, new edit., 

3s. 6d. and 2s. 6d. 

MACKENNA, Brave Men in 

Action, 10s. 6(2. 
MACKENZIE, SIR MORELL, 

Fatal Illness of Frederick the 

Noble, 2s. 6d. 
MACKINNON and SHAD- 

BOLT, South African Campaign, 

50s. 

MACLAREN,A. See Preachers. 
MACLEAN, H. E. See Low's 

Standard Books. 
MACMASTER. See Low's 

Standard Novels. 
MACMURDO, E., History of 

Portugal, 21s.; II. 21s. ; III. 21s. 
MAHAN, A. T., Influence of 

Sea Power on History, 18s. 
Maid of Florence, 10s. Qd. 
MAIN, Jfa&.tHighJAjfa 10s. 6d. 

See also Burnaby, Mrs. 

MALAN, A. N., Cobbler of Cor- 

nikeranium, 5s. 
C. F. DE M., Eric and 

Connie's Cruise, 5s. 
Man's TJwugrhts. See Gentle 

Life Series. 
MANLEY, J. J., Fish and 

Fishing, 6s, 



In all Departments of Literature. 



21 



MANTEGNA and FRANCIA. 

See Great Artists. 
MARCH, F. A., Comparative 

Anglo-Saxon Grammar, 12s. 
Anglo-Saxon Reader, 

7s. 6d. 
MARKHAM, ADM., Naval 

Career, 14s. 
Whaling Cruise, new edit. 

7s. 6d. 
C. R., Peru. See Foreign 

Countries. 

Fighting Veres, 18s. 

War Between Peru and 

Chili, 10s. 6d. 
MARSH, G. P., Lectures on 

the English Language, 18s. 
Origin and History of the 

English Language, 18s. 
MARSHALL, W". G., Through 

America, new edit. 7s. 6d. 
MARSTON, E., How Stanley 

wrote " In Darkest Africa," Is. 
See also Amateur Angler, 

Frank's Kanche, and Fresh 

Woods. 
W., Eminent Actors, n. ed. 

6s. 

MARTIN, J. W., Fkrf Fish- 

ing and Spinning, new edit. 2s. 
Massage. See Nursing Record 
Series. 

MATTHEWS, J. W., Incwadi 

Yami, Us. 

MAURY, M. F., Life, 12s. 6d. 
Physical Geography and 

Meteorology of the Sea, new ed.'6s. 
MEISSNER, A. L., Children's 

Own German Book (Low's Series), 

Is. 6d. 

First German Header 
(Low's Series), Is. 6d. 

Second German Reader 
(Low's Series), U 6d. 

MEISSONIER. See Great 
Artiits. 



MELBOURNE, LORD. See 

Prime Ministers. 

MELIO, G. L., Swedish Drill, 
Is. 6cZ. 

MENDELSSOHN Family, 
1729-1847, Letters and Journals, 
2 vols. 30s. ; new edit. 30s. 

See also Great Musicians. 

MERRIFIELD, J., Nautical 

Astronomy, 7s. Qd. 

MERRYLEES, J., Carlsbad, 

7s. 6d. and 9s. 

MESNEY,W., Tung7cing,3s. 6d. 
Metal Workers' Recipes and 

Processes, by W. T. Brannt, 12s. Qd. 
MEUNIER, Y. See Low's 

Standard Books. 
Michelangelo. See Great Art- 

MILFORD, P. Ned Stafford's 

Experiences, 5s. 
MILL, JAMES. See English 

Philosophers. 

MILLS, J., Alternative Elemen- 
tary Chemistry, Is. 6d. 
Chemistry Based on the 

Science and Art Syllabus, 2s. 6d. 
Elementary Chemistry, 

answers, 2 vols. Is. each. 
MILTON'S Allegro. See 

Choice Editions. 
MITCHELL, D.G.(Ik. Marvel) 

English Lands, Letters and Kings, 

2 yols. 6s. each. 
Writings, new edit, per 

vol. 5s. 

MITFORD, J., Letters, 3s. 6d. 
Miss, Our Village, illust. 

5s. 

Modern Etchings, 63s. & 3U.66?. 
MOLLETT, J. W., Dictionary 

of Words in Art and Archceology, 

illust. 15s. 
Etched Examples, 31s. Qd. 

and 63s. 
See also Great Artists. 



22 



A Select List of Books 



MONCK. See English Philo- 
sophers. 
MONEY, E., The Truth About 

America, 5s. ; new edit. 2s. 6d. 
MONKHOUSE. See G. Artists. 
Montaigne's Essays, revised by 

J. Hain Friswell, 2s. Gd. 

See Gentle Life Series. 

MOORE, J. M., New Zealand 

for Emigrant, Invalid, and Tourist, 

5s. 
MORFILL, W. R., Russia, 

3s. Gd. 
MORLEY, HENRY, English 

Literature in the Reign of Victoria, 

2s. 6d. 
Five Centuries of English 

Literature, 2s. 
MOESE, E. S., Japanese Homes, 

new edit. 10s. Gd. 
MORTEN, Hospital Life, Is. 
MOETIMER, J., Chess Players 

Pocket-Book, new edit. Is. 

MORWOOD,V.S., Our Gipsies, 

18s. 
MOSS, F. J., Great South Sea, 

8s. Gd. 

MOSSMAN, S., Japan, 3s. Gd. 
MOTTI, PIETRO, Elementary 

Russian Grammar, 2s. Gd. 
Russian Conversation 

Grammar, 5s. ; Key, 2s. 
MOTILE, H. C. G., Sermons, 

3s. Gd. 

MOXLEY, West India Sana- 
torium, and Barbados, 3s. Gd. 
MOXON,W., PilocereusSenilis, 

3s. Gd. 

MOZART, 3s. Gr. Musicians. 
MULLER,E. See Low's Stand- 

ard Books. 
MULLIN, J.P., Moulding and 

Pattern Malting, 12s. Gd. 
MULREADY, 3s. Gd. Great 

Artists. 
MURILLO. See Great Artists. 



MUSGRAVE, MRS. See Low's 
Standard Novels. 

SavageLondon, n. e. 3s. Gd. 

My Comforter, $c., Religious 

Poems, 2s. Gd. 

Napoleon I. See Bayard Series. 
Napoleon /. and Marie Louise, 

7s. Gd. 
NELSON, WOLFRED, Panama, 

6s. 

Nelson'sWords andDeeds, 3s. Gd. 
NETHERCOTE, Pytchley 

Hunt, 8s. Gd. 
New Democracy, Is. 
New Zealand, chromos, by Bar- 

raud, 168. 

NICHOLSON, British Asso- 
ciation ^YorTc and Workers, Is. 
Nineteenth Century, a Monthly 

Review, 2s. 6cL per No. 
NISBET, HUME, Life and 

Nature Studies, 6s. 
NIXON, Story of the Transvaal, 

12s. Gd. 
Nordenskiold' s Voyage, trans. 

21s. 
NORDHOFF, C., California, 

new edit. 12s. Gd. 
N ORRIS, RACHEL, Nursing 

Notes, 2s. 
NORTH, W., Roman Fever, 

25s. 

Northern Fairy Tales, 5s. 
NORTON, C. L., Florida, 5s. 
NORWAY, G., How Martin 

Drake Found his Father illus. 5s. 
NUGENT'S French Dictionary, 

new edit. 3s. 

Nuggets of the Gouph, 3s. 
Nursing Record Series, text 

books and manuals. Edited by 

Charles F. Rideal. 
1. Lectures to Nurses on Antiseptics 

in Surgery. By E. Stanraore 

Bishop. With coloured plates, 

2s. 



In all Departments of L^terat^t,re. 



Nursing Record Series contin. 

2. Nursing Notes. Medical and 
Surgical information. For Hos- 
pital Nurses, &c. With illustra- 
tions and a glossary of terms. 
By Rachel Norris (nee Williams), 
late Acting Superintendent of 
Eoyal Victoria Military Hospital 
at Suez, 2s. 

3. Practical Electro-Therapeutics. 
By Arthur Harries, M.D., and 
H. Newman Lawrence. With 
photographs and diagrams, Is. 6d. 

4. Massage for Beginners. Simple 
and easy directions for learning 
and remembering the different 
movements. By Lucy Fitch, 
Is. 

O'BRIEN, Fifty Years of Con- 
cession to Ireland, vol. i. 16s. ; 
vol. ii, 16s. 

Irish Land Question, 2s. 

OGDEN, JAMES, Fly - tying, 
2s. 6cL 

O'GEADY, Bardic Literature 
of Ireland, Is. 

History of Ireland, vol. i. 

7s. Gd. ; ii. 7s. 6d. 

Old Masters in Photo. 73s. Qd. 

Orient Line Guide, new edit. 
2s. Gd. 

OKLEBAE, Sancta Christina, 
5s. 

Other People's Windows. See 
Gentle Life Series. 

OTTfi, Denmark and Iceland, 
3s. Gd. Foreign Countries. 

Our Little Ones in Heaven, 5s. 

Out of School at Eton, 2s. 6d. 

OVEEBECK. See Great Art- 
ists. 

OWEN, DOUGLAS, Marine In- 
surance, 15s. 

Oxford Days, by a M.A., 2s. Qd. 

PALGEAVE, Chairman's 

Handbook, new edit. 2s. 

Oliver Cromwell, 10s. Qd. 



PALLISEE, China Collector's 

Companion, 5s. 

History of Lace, n. ed. 21s. 

CANTON, Homes ofTaste,2s.Gd. 
PAEKE, Emin Pasha Relief 

Expedition, 21s. 

PAEKEE, E. H., Chinese Ac- 
count of the Opium War, Is. Qd. 
PAESONS, J., Principles of 

Partnership, 31s. Gd. 
T. P., Marine Insurance, 

2 vols. 63s. 
PEACH, Annals of Swainswick) 

10s. Qd. 

Peel. See Prime Ministers. 
PELLESCHI, G., Gran Chaco, 

8s. Qd. 
PENNELL, H. C., Fishing 

Tackle, 2s. 

Sporting Fish, 15s, & 30s. 

Penny Postage Jubilee, Is. 
PEEEY, NOHA, Another Flock 

of Girls, illus. by Birch & Cope- 
land, 7s. Gd. 

Peru, 3s. 6d. Eoreign Countries. 
PHELPS, E. S., Struggle for 

Immortality, 5s. 
SAMUEL, Life, by W. M. 

Phelps and Forbes-Robertson, 

12s. 

PHILLIMOEE, C. M., Italian 

Literature, new. edit. 3s. 6d. 
PHILLIPPS, W. M., English 

Elegies, 5s. 
PHILLIPS, L. P., Dictionary 

of Biographical Reference, new. 

edit. 25s. 
W., Law of Insurance, 2 

vols. 73s. 6d. 
PHILPOT, H. J., Diabetes 

Mellitus, 5s. 

Diet Tables, Is. each. 

Picture Gallery of British Art. 

I. to VI. 18s. each. 
Modern Art, 3 vols. 31s. 6d. 

each. 



A Select List of Books 



PINTO, How I Crossed Africa, 
2 vols. 42s. 

Playtime Library. See Hum- 
phrey and Huntingdon. 

Pleasant History of Reynard the 
Fox, trans, by T. Eoscoe, illus. 
7s. 6<Z. 

POCOCK, R., Oravesend His- 
torian, 5s. 

POE, by E. C. Stedman, 3s. Qd. 

Raven, ill. by G. Dore, 63s. 

Poems of the Inner Life, 5s. 

Poetry ' of Nature. See Choice 
Editions. 

Poetry of the Anti- Jacobinfls. Qd. 

and 21s. 

POOLE, Somerset Customs and 

Legends, 5s. 
S. LANE, Egypt, 3s. 6d. 

Foreign Countries. 
POPE, Select Poetical Works, 

(Bernhard Tauchnitz Collection), 

2s. 
PORCHER, A., Juvenile 

French, Plays, Is. 
Portraits of Racehorses, 4 vols. 

126s. 
POSSELT, Structure of Fibres, 

63s. 

Textile Design, illust. 28s. 

POYNTEK. See Illustrated 

Text Books. 

Preachers of the Age, 3s. Qd. ea. 
Living Theology, by His Grace the 

Archbishop of Canterbury. 
The Conquering Christ, by Rev. A. 

Maclaren. 
Verbum Crucis, by the Bishop of 

Derry. 
Ethical Christianity, by H. P. 

Hughes. 
Sermons, by Canon W. J. Knox- 

Little. 

Light and Peace, by H. E. Reynolds. 
Faith and Duty, by A. M. Fairbairn. 
Plain Words on Great Themes, by 

J. 0. Dykes. 
Sermons, by the Bishop of Ripon. 



Preachers of the Age continued. 

Sermons, by Rev. C. H. Spurgeon. 

Agonice Christi, by Dean Lefroy, of 
Norwich. 

Sermons, by H. C. G. Moule, M.A. 

Volumes will follow in quick succes- 
sion by other ivell-known men. 

Prime Ministers, a series of 
political biographies, edited by 
Stuart J. Reid, 3s. 6<L each. 

1. Earl -of Beaconsfield, by J. An- 
thony Froude. 

2. Viscount Melbourne, by Henry 
Dunckley ("Verax"). 

3. Sir Robert Peel, by Justin 
McCarthy. 

4. Viscount Palmerston, by the 
Marquis of Lome. 

5. Earl Russell, by Stuart J. Reid. 

6. Right Hon. W. E. Gladstone, by 
G. W. E. Russell. 

7. Earl of Aberdeen, by Sir Arthur 
Gordon. 

8. Marquis of Salisbury, by H. D. 
Traill. 

9. Earl of Derby, by George Saints- 
bury, 

* # * An edition, limited to 250 copies, 

is issued on hand-made paper, 

medium 8vo, bound in half vellum, 

cloth sides, gilt top. Price for the 

9 vols. 41. 4s. nett. 
Prince Maskiloff. See Low's 

Standard Novels. 
Prince of Nursery Playmates, 

new edit. 2s. 6<Z. 
PRITT, T. K, Country Trout 

Flies, 10s. 6d. 

Reynolds. See Great Artists. 
Purcell. See Great Musicians. 
QUILTER, H., Giotto, Life, 

Sec. 15s. 
RAMBAUD, History of Russia, 

new edit., 3 vols. 21s. 
RAPHAEL. See Great Artists. 
REDFORD, Sculpture. See 

Illustrated Text-books. 
REDGRAVE, Engl. Painter*, 

10$. 6d. and 125. 



In all Departments of Literature. 



REED, SIR E. J., Modern Ships 

of War, 10s. Gd. 
T. B., Roger Ingleton, 

Minor, 5s. 
Sir Ludar. See Low's 

Standard Books. 
REID, MAYNE, CAPT., Stones 

of Strange Adventures, illust. 5s. 
STUART J. See Prime 

Ministers. 
T. WEMYSS, Land of the 

Bey, 10s. Gd. 
Remarkable Bindings in British 

Museum, 168s. j 94s. Gd.; 73s. 6d. 

and 63s. 

REMBRANDT. See Great Art- 
ists. 

Reminiscences of a Boyhood, 6s. 
REMUSAT, Memoirs, Vols. I. 

and II. new ed. 16s. each. 

Select Letters, 16s. 

REYNOLDS. See Gr. Artists. 
HENRY R., Light fy Peace, 

fyc. Sermons, 3s. Gd. 

RICHARDS, J. W., Alumi- 
nium, new edit. 21s. 
RICHARDSON, Choice of 

Books, 3*. Gd. 

RICHTER, J. P., Italian Art, 
42s. 

See also Great Artists. 

RIDDELL. See Low's Stand- 
ard Novels. 

RIDEAL, Women of the Time, 
Us. 

RIFFAULT, Colours for 

Painting, 31s. Gd. 

BUS, How the Other Half 

Lives, 10s. Gd. 

RIPON, BP. OF. See Preachers. 
ROBERTS, Miss, France. See 

Foreign Countries. 
W., English Bookselling, 

earlier history, 7s. Gd. 
ROBIDA, A., Toilette, coloured, 

7*. Gd, 



S. See Choice 



ROBINSON, " Romeo " Coates, 

7s. Gd. 

Noah's Ark, n. ed. 3s. Gd. 

Sinners fy Saints, 10s. Gd. 

See also Low's Standard 

Series. 
Wealth and its Sources, 

5s. 
W. C., Law of Patents, 

3 vols. 105s. 
ROCHEFOUCAULD. See 

Bayard Series. 

ROCKSTRO, History of Music, 
new ed. 14s. 

RODRIGUES, Panama Canal, 
5s. 

ROE, E. P. See Low's Stand- 
ard Series. 

ROGERS, 

Editions. 

ROLFE, Pompeii, 7s. Qd. 

Romantic Stories of the Legal 
Profession, 7s. Gd. 

ROMNEY. See Great Artists. 

ROOSEVELT, BLANCHE R. 
Home Life of Longfellow, 7s. Qd. 

ROSE, J., Mechanical Drawing, 
16s. 

Practical Machinist, new 

ed. 12s. Gd. 

Key to Engines, 8s. Qd. 

Modern Steam Engines, 

31s. Gd. 

Steam Boilers, 1 2s. Qd. 

Rose Library. Popular Litera- 
ture of all countries, per vol. Is., 
unless the price is given. 

Alcott (L. M.) Eight Cousins, 2s. ; 
cloth, 3s. Gd. 

Jack and Jill, 2s. ; cloth, 5s. 

Jimmy's cruise in the Pina- 
fore, 2s. ; cloth, 3s. Gd. 

Little Women. 

Little Women Wedded ; Nos. 

4 and 5 in 1 vol. cloth, 3s. Gd. 

Little Men, 2*. ; cloth gilt, 

3s. 6cl. 



A Select List of Books 



Rose Library continued. 
Alcott (L. M.) Old-fashioned Girls, 

2s.; cloth, 3s. Gd. 

Rose in Bloom, 2s. j cl. 3s. 6d. 

Silver Pitchers. 

Under the Lilacs, 2s. ; cloth, 

3s. 6d. 
Work, A Story of Experience, 

2 vols. in 1, cloth, 3s. 6d. 
Stowe (Mrs.) Pearl of Orr's Island. 

Minister's Wooing. 

We and Our Neighbours, 2s. 

My Wife and I, 2s. 

Dodge (Mrs.) Hans Brinker, or, 

The Silver Skates, Is. j cloth, 5s. ; 

3s. 6d. ; 2s. 67,. 

Lowell (J. R.) My Study Windows. 
Holmes (Oliver Wendell) Guardian 

Angel, cloth, 2s. 
Warner (C. D.) My Summer in a 

Garden, cloth, 2s. 
Stowe (Mrs.) Dred, 2s. ; cloth gilt, 

3s. Qd. 
Carleton (W.) City Ballads, 2 vols, 

in 1, cloth gilt, 2s. Qd. 
Legends, 2 vols. in 1, cloth 

gilt, 2s. 6cZ. 
Farm Ballads, 6cZ. and 9cL ; 3 

vols. in 1, cloth gilt, 3s. 6cZ. 
Farm Festivals, 3 vols. in 1, 

cloth gilt, 3s. 6d. 
Farm Legends, 3 vols. in 1, 

cloth gilt, 3s. Qd. 
Clients of Dr. Bernagius, 2 vols. 
Howells (W. D.) Undiscovered 

Country. 
Clay (C. M.) Baby Rue. 

Story of Helen Troy. 

Whitney (Mrs.) Hitherto, 2 vols. 

cloth, 3s. 6cL 

Fawcett (E.) Gentleman of Leisure. 
Butler, Nothing to Wear. 
ROSS, MARS, Cantabria, 21s. 
ROSSINI, &c., See Great 

Musicians. 

Rothschilds, by J". Reeves,7s. Qd. 
Roughing it after Gold, by Rux, 

new edit. Is. 
ROUSSELET. See Low's 

Standard Books. 



ROWBOTHAM, F. J., Prairie 

Land, 5s. 

Royal Naval Exhibition, a sou- 
venir, illus. Is. 

RUBENS. See Great Artists. 

RUGGLES, H. J., Shakespeare's 
Method, 7s. 6cL 

RUSSELL, &.W.K., Gladstone. 
See Prime Ministers. 

W. CLARK, Mrs. Dines' 

Jewels, 2s. 6d. 

Nelson's. Words and Deeds, 

3s. 6d. 

Sailor's Language, illus. 
3s. Qd. 

See also Low's Standard 

Novels and Sea Stories. 

W. HOWARD, Prince of 

Wales' Tour, illust. 52s. 6d. and 
84s. 

Russia. See Foreign Countries. 
Saints and their Symbols, 3s. 6d. 
SAINTSBURY, G., Earl of 

Derby. See Prime Ministers. 
SAINTINE, Picciola, 2s. Qd. 

and 2s. See Low's Standard 

Series. 
SALISBURY, LORD. See Prime 

Ministers. 

SAMUELS. See Low's Stan- 
dard Series. 

SA.^DAUS,German Primer, Is. 

SANDEAU, Seagull Rock, 2s. 
and 2s. 6d. Low's Standard Series. 

SANDLANDS, How to Develop 
Vocal Power, Is. 

S AUEiR, European Commerce, 5s. 

Italian Grammar (Key, 

2s.), 5s. 

Spanish Dialogues, 2s. Gd. 
Spanish Grammar (Key, 

2s.), 5s. 
Spanish Reader, new edit. 

8s. 6d. 
SAUNDERS, J., Jaspar Deane t 

10s. Gd. 



In all Departments of Literature. 



SCHAACK, M. J., Anarchy, 
16s. 

SCHAUERMANN, Ornament 

for technical schools, 10s. Qd. 
SCHEKER, Essays in English 

Literature, by G. Saintsbury, 6s. 
SCHERR, English Literature, 

history, 8s. 6d. 

SCHILLER'S Prosa, selections 

byBuchheim. Low' s Series 2s. 6cJ. 
SCHUBERT. See Great Musi- 

cians. 
SCHUMANN. See Great 

Musicians. 
SCHWEINFURTH. See Low's 

Standard Library. 
Scientific Education of Dogs, 6s. 
SCOTT, LEADER, Renaissance 

of Art in Italy, 31s. 6d. 
See also Illust. Text-books. 

SIR GILBERT, Autobio- 
liography, 18s. 

W. B. See Great Artists. 

SELMA, ROBERT, Poems, 5s. 
SERGEANT, L. See Foreign 

Countries. 

Shadow of tJie Rock, 2s. 6d. 
SHAFTESBURY. See English 

Philosophers. 

SHAKESPEARE, ed. by R. G. 

White, 3 vols. 36s. ; edit, de luxe, 
63*. 

Annals ; Life fy Worlt, 2s. 

Hamlet, 1603, also 1604, 

Is. 6d. 

Hamlet, by Karl Elze, 

12s. 6d. 

Heroines, by living paint- 
ers, 105s. ; artists' proofs, 630s. 

Macbeth, with etchings, 
105s. and 52s. 6d. 

Songs and Sonnets. See 
Choice Editions. 

i Taming oj the Shrew, 
adapted for drawing-room, paper 
' wrapper, Is, 



SHEPHERD, British School of 
Painting, 2nd edit. 5s. ; 3rd edit, 
eewed, Is. 

SHERIDAN,#^aZs, col. plates, 
52s. 6d. nett ; art. pr. 105s. nett. 

SHIELDS, G. 0., Big Game 

of North America, 21s. 
Cruisings in the Cascades, 

10s. 6d. 
SHOCK, W. H., Steam Boilers, 

73s. 6d. 
SIDNEY. See Gentle Life 

Series. 
Silent Hour. See Gentle Life 

Series. 
SIMKIN, Our Armies, plates in 

imitation of water-colour (5 parts 

at Is.), 6s. 
SIMSON, Ecuador and the 

Putumayor, 8s. 6d. 
SKOTTOWE, Hanoverian 

Kings, new edit. 3*. 6d. 
SLOANE, T. 0., Home Experi- 
ments, 6s. 
SMITH, HAMILTON, and 

LEGEOS' French Dictionary, 2 

vols. 16s., 21s., and 22s. 
SMITH, EDWARD, GoUbett, 2 

vols. 24s. 

G., Assyria, 18s. 

Chaldean Account of 

Genesis, new edit, by Sayce, 18s. 
GERABD. See Illustrated 

Text Books. 
T. ROGEE. See Illustrated 

Text Books. 

Socrates. See Bayard Series. 
SOMERSET, Our Village Life, 

5s. 

Spain. See Foreign Countries. 
SPAYTH, Draught Player, 

new edit. 12s. 6d. 
SPIERS, French Dictionary, 

2 vols. 18s., half bound, 2 vols., 

21s. 
SPRY. SeeLow'sStand.Library. 



28 



A Select List of Books 



SPURGEON, C. H. See 

Preachers. 
STANLEY, H. M., Congo, 2 

vols. 42s. and 21s. 
In Darkest Africa, 2 vols., 

42s. 

Emin's Rescue, Is. 

See also Low's Standard 

Library and Low's Standard 

Books. 

START, Exercises in Mensura- 
tion, 8d. 
STEPHENS, F. G., Celebrated 

Flemish and French Pictures, 

with notes, 28s. 

See also Great Artists. 

STERNE. See Bayard Series. 
JSTERRY, J. ASHBT, Cucumber 

Chronicles, 5s. 

STEUART, J. A., Letters to 

Living Authors, new edit. 2s. Gd. ; 

edit, de luxe, 10s. 6d. 
See also Low's Standard 

Novels. 
STEVENS, J. W., Practical 

Workings of the Leather Manu- 
facture, illust. 18s. 
T., Around the World on 

a Bicycle, over 100 illust. 16s. ; 

part II. 16s. 
STEWART, DUGALD, Outlines 

of Moral Philosophy, 3s. 6d. 
STOCKTON, F. R., Casting 

Away of Mrs. Leeks, Is. 

The Dusantes, a sequel, Is. 

Merry Chanter, 2s. Qd. 

Personally Conducted, 

illust. by Joseph Pennell, 7s. Gd. 
Rudder Grangers Abroad, 

2s. 6eZ. 

Squirrel Inn, illust. 6*. 

Story of Viteau, illust. 5s. 

new edit. 3s. Gd. 

Three Burglars, Is. & 2s. 

See also Low's Standard 

Novels. 



STORER, F. H., Agriculture, 

2 vols., 25s. 
STOWE, EDWIN. See Great 

Artists. 
MRS., Flowers and Fruit 

from Her Writings, 3s. Gd. 
Life . . . her own Words 

. . . Letters and Original Composi- 
tion, 15s. 
Life, told for boys and 

girls, by S. A. Tooley, 5s., new 

edit. 2s. 6d. and 2s. 
Little Foxes, cheap edit. 

Is. j 4s. Gd. 

Minister's Wooing, Is. 

Pearl of Orr's Island, 

3s. Gd. and Is. 

Uncle Tom's Cabin, with 

126 new illust. 2 vols. 18s. 

See also Low's Standard 

Novels andLow's Standard Series, 

STRACHAN, J., New Guinea, 
12s. 

STRANAHAN, French Paint- 
ing, 21s. 

STRICKLAND, F., Engadine, 
new edit. 5s. 

STUTFIELD, El Maghreb, 
ride through Morocco, 8s. Gd. 

SUMNER, C., Memoir, new 
edit. 2 vols. 36s. 

Sweden and Norway. See 
Foreign Countries. 

Sylvanus Redivlvus, 10s. (5d. 

SZCZEPANSKI, Technical 

Literature, a directory, 2s 
TAINE, H. A., Originen, 
I. Ancient Regime, French K evo- 
lution, 3 vols. ; Modern Begime, 
vol. I. 16s. 

TAYLOR, H., English Consti- 
tution, 18s. 
R. L., Analysis Tables, Is. 

Chemistry, Is. Gd. 

Techno-Chemical Receipt Book, 

10*. 6ci. 



In all Departments of Literature. 



29 



TENNYSON. See Choice 

Editions. 
Ten Years of a Sailor's Life, 

7.<. 6d. 
THAUSING, Malt and Beer, 

45s. 



,5r#M$ Angling 
Flies, 5s. 

Thomas a Kempis Birthday - 
Book, 3s. 6d. 

- Daily Text- Book, 2s. 6d. 

- See also Gentle Life Series. 
THOMAS, BERTHA, House on 

the ibcar, Tale of South Devon, 6s. 
THOMSON, JOSEPH. SeeLow's 
Standard Library and Low's 
Standard Novels. 

- W., Algebra, 5s. ; without 
Answers, 4s. fid. ; Key, Is. 6d. 

THORNTON, W. PUGIN, 

Heads, and what they tell us, Is. 
THORODSEN, J. P., Lad and 

Lass, 6s. 
TICKNOR, G., Memoir, new 

edit., 2 vols. 21s. 

TILESTON, MARY W., Daily 

Strength, 4s. 6 /. 
TINTORETTO. See Great 

Artists. 

TITIAN. See Great Artists. 
TODD, Life, by J. E. Todd, 12s. 
TOURGEE. See Low's Stand- 

ard Novels. 

TOY, C. H., Judaism, Us. 
Tracks in Norway, 2s., n. ed. Is. 
TRAILL. See Prime Ministers. 
Transactions of the Hong Kong 

Medical Society, vol. I. 12*. 6d. 
TROMHOLT, Aurora Borealis, 

2 vols., 30s. 

TUCKER, Eastern Europe, 15s. 
TUCKERMAN, B., English 

Fiction, 8s. 6cZ. 

- Lafayette, 2 vols. 12s. 
TURNER, J. M. W. See Gr. 

Artists, 



TYSON, Arctic Adventures, 25s. 

TYTLER, SARAH. See Low's 
Standard Novels. 

M. C., American Litera- 
ture, vols. I. and II. 24s. 

UPTON, II., Dairy Farming, 
2s. 

Valley Council, by P. Clarke, 6s. 

YANDYCK and HALS. See 

Great Artists. 
YANE, DENZIL, Lynn's Court 

Mystery, Is. 
See also Low's Standard 

Novels. 

Vane, Young Sir Harry, 18s, 
YELAZQUEZ. See Gr. Artists. 
and MURILLO, by C. B. 

Curtis, with etchings, 31s. 6d. and 

63s. 
YERE, Sin F., Fighting Veres, 

18s. 
YERNE, J., Works by. See 

page 31. 
Vernet and Delaroche. See 

Great Artists. 

YERSCHUUR, G., At the An- 
tipodes, 7s. Qd. 
YIGNY, Cinq Mars, with 

etchings, 2 vols. 30s. 
YINCENT, F., Through and 

through the Tropics, 10s. 6d. 
MRS. H., 40,000 Miles 

over Land and Water, 2 vols. 21*. ; 

also 3s. 6d. 
YIOLLET-LE-DUC, Architec 

ture, 2 vols. 31*. 6d. each. 
WAGNER. See Gr. Musicians. 
WALERY, 'Our Celebrities, 

vol. II. part i., 30s. 

WALFORD, MRS. L. ?. See 

Low's Standard Novels. 
WALL, Tombs of the Kings 

of England, 21s. 
WALLACE, L.,BenHur,2s.6d. 

Boyhood of Christ, 15s. 

See also Low's Stand.Novs, 



'A Select List of Books. 



WALLACE, E. , Rural Economy 
of Australia and New Zealand, 
illnst. 21s. net*. 

WALLER, C. H., Names on 
the Gates of Pearl, 3s. 6d. 

Silver Sockets, 6s. 

WALTON, Angler, Lea and 
Dove edit, by B,. B. Marston, 
with photos., 210s. and 105s. 

Wallet-book, 21s. & 42.?. 

T. H., Coal-mining, 25s. 

WARNER, C. D., Their Pil- 
grimage, illust, by C. S. Reinhard, 
7s. 6d. 

' See also Low's Standard 
Novels and Low's Standard Series. 

WARKEN, W. F., Paradise 
Found, Cradle of the Human Race, 
illust. 12s. 6d. 

WASHBURNE, Recollections 
(Siege of Paris, $*c.), 2vols. 36s. 

WATTEAU. See Great Artists. 

WEBER. See Great Musicians. 

WEBSTER, Spain. See Foreign 
Countries and British Colonies. 

WELLINGTON. See Bayard 
Series. 

WELLS, H. P., Salmon Fisher- 
man, 6s. . 

Fly-rods and Tackle, 

10.?. 6d. 

J. W., Brazil, 2 vols. 

32s. 

WENZEL, Chemical Products 
of the German Empire, 25s. 

West Indies. See 
Countries. 

WESTGARTH, Australasian 
Progress, 12s. 

WESTOBY, Postage Stamps; 
a descriptive Catalogue, 6s. 

WHITE, RHODA E., From In- 
fancy to Womanhood, 10s. 6d. 

R. GRANT, England with- 
out and within, new ed. 10s. 6d. 

Every. day Englishes. 6d. 



Foreign 



WHITE, R. GRANT, Studies in 

Shakespeare, 10s. 6cL 
Words and their Uses, 

new edit. 5s. 
W., Our English Homer, 

Shakespeare and his Plays, 6s. 

WHITNEY, MRS. See Low's 

Standard Series. 
WHITTIER, St. Gregory's 

Guest, 5s. 
Text and Verse for Every 

Day in the Year, selections, Is. 6d. 
WHYTE, Asia to Europe, 12s. 
WIKOFF,Four Civilizations, 6s. 
WILKES, G., Shakespeare, 16s. 
WILKIE. See Great Artists. 
WILLS, Persia as it is, 8s. Qd. 
WILSON, Health for the People, 

7s. 6d. 
WINDER, Lost in Africa. See 

Low's Standard Books. 
WINSOR, J., Columbus, 21s. 
History of America, 8 vols. 

per vol. 30s. and 63s. 
WITTHAUS, CJiemistry, 16s. 
WOOD, Sweden^ and Norway. 

See Foreign Countries. 
WOLLYS, Vegetable Kingdom, 

5s. 
WOOLSEY, Communism and 

Socialism, 7s. Gd. 
International Law, 6th ed. 

18s. 
Political Science, 2 vols. 

30s. 

WOOLSON, C. FENIMORE. 

See Low's Standard Novels, 
WORDSWORTH. See Choice 

Editions. 

Wreck of the " Grosvenor," 6d. 
WRIGHT, H., Friendship of 

Ood, 6s. 

T., Town of Cowper, 6s. 

WKIGIMY, Algiers Illust. 45s 
Written to Order, 6s. 



BOOKS BY JULES VERNE. 



LARGE CROWN 8vo. 


( Containing 350 to 600 pp. 
j and from 50 to 100 
(. full-page illustrations. 


Containing the wnole of the 
text with some illustrations. 


WORKS. 


Handsome 
cloth bind- 
ing, gilt 
edges. 


Plainer 
-binding, 
plain 
edges. 


Cloth 
binding, gil 
edges, 
smaller 
type. 


Limp cloth. 


20,000 Leagues under the Sea. 
Parts I. and II 


. s. d. 
j 10 6 

10 6 
10 6 

j 10 6 

10 6 
10 6 
7 6 

} .76 

7 6 
} 7_6 

} 7~6 

) 22 6 

( 7 6 
( 7 6 
) 7 6 
7 6 
7 6 
7 6 

I 7C 
) 7 6 

\ 76 

) 76 
5 

7 6 

^76 
) 7 6 
7 6 
7 6 
10 6 
7 6 
7 6 
7 6 
6 
7 6 
6 
6 
6 


s. d. 
5 

5 
5 

5 

5 
5 
3 6 

3 6 
3 6 
3 6 

3 6 

10 6 
3 6 
3 6 
3 6 
3 6 
3 6 
3 6 

3 6 
3 6 

3 6 
3 6 
3 6 
3 6 

3 6 
3 6 
3 6 
3 6 
5 
3 6 
' 3 6 
3 6 
3 6 
3 6 


s. d. 
3 6 

3 6 
3 6 

(2vols., 
i 2s. ea. 
3 6 
3 6 
2 

2 

2 
(20 
[20 
2 
2 
(36 
(20 
6 
2 
2 
2 
2 
2 
2 

2 
2 

2 
2 
2 
2 

2 
2 
2 
2 
3 6 
2 
2 


s. d. 
2 

2 

2 
2vols., ") 
Is. ea.j 
2 
2 
1 

1 

1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
(20 
1 1 
3 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 

1 
1 

1 
1 
1 
1 

1 
1 
1 
1 
2volsl each 
1 
1 




The Fur Country .... 


The Earth to the Moon and a 
Trip round it 


Michael Strogoff 


Dick Sands, the Boy Captain . 
Five Weeks in a Balloon . . . 
Adventures of Three English- 
men and Three Russians . . 
Round the World in Eighty Days 
|A Floating City . .... 


[The Blockade Runners. . . . 
[Dr. Ox's Experiment .... 
[A Winter amid the Ice . . . 
[Survivors of the " Chancellor " . 
Martin Paz 


JThe Mysterious Island, 3 vols. : 
I. Dropped from the Clouds 
II. Abandoned 


1 III. Secret of the Island . . 
fThe Child of the Cavern . . . 
[The Begum's Fortune .... 
[The Tribulations of a Chinaman 
[The Steam House, 2 vols.: 
I. Demon of Cawnpore . . 
II. Tigers and Traitors . . . 
The Giant Raft, 2 vols.: 
I. 800 Leagues on the Amazon 
II. The Cryptogram .... 
[The Green Ray 


[Godfrey Morgan 


Keraban the Inflexible: 
I. Captain of the "Guidara" 
[ II. Scarpante the Spy . . . 
[The Archipelago on Fire . . . 
phe Vanished Diamond . . . 
Mathias Sandorf 


Lottery Ticket 


ffhe Clipper of the Clouds . . 
{North against South .... 
Adrift in the Pacific .... 
{The Flight to France .... 
(The Purchase of the North Pole 
|L Family without a Name . . 
Cesar Gascabel 



I CELEBRATED TRAVELS AND TRAVELLERS. 3 vols. 8vo, 600 pp., 100 full-page illustrations, 7. 
kilt edges, 9. each : (1) THE EXPLORATION OF THB WORLD. (2) THB GREAT NA.VICUTOM o> 
EIGHTH KNTU CBNXVKY, (S) TUB GBBAT EXPLOBEBB Of SHE NINETEENTH 



PERIODICAL PUBLICATIONS 



OF 



Sampson %ow> flDarston a Company 



SCRIBNER'S MAGAZINE. 

A Superb Illustrated Monthly. Price One Shilling. 

Containing Contributions from the pens of many well-known Authors, 

among whom may be mentioned Thomas Bailey Aldrich, Sir Edwin 

Arnold, Andrew Lang, Sarah Ornie Jewett, H. M. Stanley, Robert Louis 

Sterenson, R. H. Stoddard, Frank E. Stockton. 

THE NINETEENTH CENTURY. 

A MONTHLY REVIEW, Edited t?y JAMES KNOWLES. 

Price Half- a- Crown. 

Amongst the contributors the following representative names may be 
mentioned : Lord Tennyson, the Eight Hon. W. B. Gladstone, Cardin .1 
Manning, Mr. J. A. Fronde, Mr. Euskin, Mr. G. A. Watts, E.A., Earl 
Grey, the Earl of Derby, Lord Acton, Mr. Herbert Spencer, Mr. Frederick 
Harrison, Mr. Algernon C. Swinburne, Mr. Leslie Stephen, Professor 
Huxley, Sir Theodore Martin, Sir Edward Hamley, Professor Goldwin 
, Smith, and Sir Samuel Baker. 

THE PUBLISHERS' CIRCULAR, 

AND 

BOOKSELLERS' RECORD OF BRITISH & FOREIGN LITERATURE. 
WEEKLY. Every Saturday. Price Three -Halfpence. 

SUBSCRIPTION. 

Inland Twelve Months (post free) 8s. 6d. 

Countries in the Postal Union ... ,, Us. Qd. 

THE FISHING GAZETTE. 

H Journal for Hnolers. 

Edited by R. B. MARSTON, Hon. Treas. of the Fly Fishers' Club. 
Published Weekly, price 2d. Subscription, 10s. 6d. per annum. 

The Gazette contains every week Twenty folio pages of Original Articles 

on Angling of every kind. The paper has recently been much enlarge.! 

and improved. 

" Under the editorship of Mr. R. B. Marston the Gazette has attained a high stftcrt- 
ing." Daily Newt. " An excellent paper." The World. 



LONDON: SAMPSON LOW, MARSTON & COMPANY, LIMITED, 
ST. DUNSTAN'I HOUSK, FETTER LINK, FLEET STREET, E.G. 



Accessions 




Shelf No. 



Ref ei\ >d 



fh- ^r. ij . /^/-^ 



Hrli-tvpe PT'.nttno Co. 






Boston Public Library 

Do not .-rite In this book or mark It with pen or 
, Penalties for so doing are imposed by the 
pencil, lenaiues uu f Massachusetts. 

Revised Laws of the_Commorn^ of Massach 

This hook .aas issued to the borro.oer on the dat^ 
]ast staivped below. 



FORM 



NO. 609 : 1.26.32; 



LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 



LETTERS 



TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 



BY 

MARIE HANSEN-TAYLOR 

(MRS. BAYARD TAYLOR) 



And trae philosophers, methinks, , 

Who love all sorts of natural beauties, 
Should love good victuals and good drinks." 

Thackeray 



LONDON 
SAMPSON LOW, MARSTON, & COMPANY 

Limited 

%i. gttnstan's ^ottse 

Fetter Lane, Fleet Street, E.C, 

1892 






Hvtvr, 



^^,mi 



h. 



Copyright, 1S92, by Cljarles Sciibner's Sons, 
for the United States of America. 



Printed by Berwick & Smith, 
Boston, Mass., U.S.A. 



DEDICATED 

TO 

LILIAN BAYARD TAYLOR KILIANI 



CONTENTS 



LETTER I 

PAGE 



Introductory  How to choose meat  Meat must be kept until fit 
for use  Length of time necessary for keeping meat  Impor- 
tance of the kitchen fire i 



LETTER II 

What Liebig did for the advance of cookery  On the subject of 
economy  About marketing  Food is needed to counteract 
the daily waste of the human body  The chemistry of food  
The daily rations necessary  Nutritive value of food-materials  
C. Voit's estimate of a full ration  We eat too much meat 



LETTER III 

How to boil meat and make soup  How to make a broth preserving 
all the nutrients of meat  Recipe for ordinary soup-liquor  How 
to make a good soup, and save the meat for use  Liebig's way of 
using his meat extract for soup  Amber-colored broth  Occa- 
sional additions to soup 14 

LETTER IV 

About soup in general  Rumford soup  Soups divided into three 
classes  Soups made of cereals  Accessories to soups 20 

LETTER V 

Vegetable soups  Water soups  Soups of meat pu7'ee  Sweetbread 
and calf's brains soup  Two ancient recipes 30 



VIU CONTENl-S 



LETTER VI 

PAGE 

About salting food  The qualities of pure salt  Salt assists diges- 
tion  Salt will raise the temperature of boiling water  The use, 
value, and abuse of spices  Buy spices and herbs whole  How 
to preserve herbs  How to keep lemon and orange peels  
Grades of nourishment in meats, and their different food-values  
The juices of meat must be kept intact  How to broil a beef- 
steak, showing the principle of the art of cooking meat  How to 
roast beef  How to stew or braise meat  Recipe  Time required 
for roasting other kinds of meat  Respective value of different 
cuts of beef  Filet of beef h la jardiniere  What to do with 
remnants of beef  Beef en fuatelote 40 



LETTER VH 

Waste material in food-matters, and loss of weight in cooking  Recipe 
for duck a la Portiigaise  About veal  Recipes  About mutton 

 Recipes 49 

LETTER Vni 

General remarks about pork  Roast pork with Cumberland sauce 

 Other recipes  About ham  A mustard and a horseradish 
sauce, both cold  How to boil ham and beef tongue, and what to 
do with the remnants  About poultry and how to buy  How to 
cook chickens and game  Other recipes  How to fry parsley  
What to do with remnants of poultry  Stewed turkey  Devilled 
drumsticks  Duck  Pigeons  Stuffings for poultry 59 

LETTER IX 

The usefulness oi ragoi'cts  Some recipes  How to make sauces 

 Recipes for sauces  Ragoid in pastry shell ; in ring of crou- 
tons ; in rice-ring  Three cold sauces 69 

LETTER X 

Difference between frying and satitcmg  How to fry  How to make 
croquettes  Recipe of a batter  About gelatine, and the nutri- 
tive value of gelatinous substances  What these substances are 

 The uses of meat-jelly  Recipes  Meat jellies for invalids.. 76 



CONTENTS IX 

LETTER XI 

PAGE 

About rice, and how to cook it  The pilaff  Various recipes for it  
Risotto  Recipes for baked rice  About macaroni, and how to 
boil it  Recipes 84 

LETTER XII 

Recipe for stufato a V Italien7ie with macaroni  Other recipes for 
macaroni  About mushrooms, and how to cook them  About 
truffles 91 

LETTER XIII 

The value of vegetables in nutrition  About potatoes  How to boil, 
steam, and bake them  Mashed potatoes  Various recipes 98 

LETTER XIV 

Food-values of vegetables  Green peas  A dish of mixed vegetables 

 String-beans  Lima beans  Kohlrabi  Spinach  Sorrell  
Cauliflower  Asparagus  Brussels sprouts  Cabbage  Savoy 
cabbage  Red cabbage 106 

LETTER XV 

Carrots  Turnips  Salsify  Celery root  Parsnips  Root-vegeta- 
bles mixed  Beets  Sweet potatoes  Corn  Egg-plant  Squash 

 Tomatoes  Onions  Chestnuts  Macedoine of vegetables. . . 118 

LETTER XVI 

Food-values of fish  How to cook fish  Court-bouillon for boiling 
fish  Striped bass  Sauce hollandaise for fish  Two recipes for 
pike  Cod and haddock  Mustard sauce for fish  Salmon  
Parsley sauce  Smice genoise  Sauce rejiwidade  Flounder 
a la Joiijville  How to broil fish  Fish steak sautetA  ]\Iack- 
erel  Bloaters  How to use remnants of fish  Bouille-abaisse 

 Matelote  Fish in jelly 1 28 



X CONTENTS 

LETTER XVII 

PAGE 

Cured cod, and how to treat it  Codfish balls  Oysters, and the 
different ways of cooking them  Oyster sauce  How to cook 
clams  Clam chowder  How to boil a lobster  Various recipes 
for lobster  Lobster sauce  Lobster butter  Frogs' legs 139 

LETTER XVIII 

General remarks about salads  How to prepare lettuce, and to make 
a French dre'ssing  About dressing herb salads  More substan- 
tial salad dressings  Three different mayonnaise dressings  
Combinations in salads  How to pickle beets  Cabbage salads 

 Rules to follow for salads of boiled vegetables  An excellent 
combination salad, and how to treat cucumbers 147 

LETTER XIX 

Various ways of making potato salad  A Portuguese salad  Italian 
salad  An appetizer  Venetian fish salad  Salmon salad  
Lobster salad  Salad of boiled vegetables  Salad a la Nostiz  
A Dumas salad  Chicken salad  Other meat salads  Tomato 
salads 157 

LETTER XX 

Food-value of eggs  Ways of cooking eggs, and how to do it  
How to make omelets  Stirred eggs  \<ovc\z.xi fritata  Pan- 
cakes  Pancakes filled with meat  Farcied eggs  About cheese 

 Some recipes 1 64 

LETTER XXI 

Valuation of food-matters for light desserts  The most economical 
dessert Sweet pancakes  Desserts served in cups  Recipe for 
Mount Blanc  Snow crime  Raspberry foam  Rodgrod  
Whipped cream; how to make it, and its uses  Russian crhne  
Chocolate bavnroise  How to use gelatine  Russian rice  
Mac'edoine of fruit  Apple pudding  White of egg pudding 

 Custard pudding  T-emon pudding  Rice pudding  Wine 
sauce  Fruit sauces  Claret sauce 173 



CONTENTS XI 



LETTER XXII 

PAGE 

Rules for baking cake  German drop cakes  Israel cake  Jenny 
Lind cake  Lightning cake  Sponge cake  Sand cake  Choc- 
olate cake  Vienna cake  Two nice cake fillings  Cake icings 
and ornamenting  Small cakes  Chocolate tarts  Portuguese 
drop cakes  Sugar wafers  Macaroons  Filet de vent  Kisses 
 Meringues  Boiukees  Candied fruit and orange peel 182 



LETTER XXIII 

Rules for putting up stores of preserves  Sour cherries and black- 
hearts put up air-tight  Jam of raspberries and blackberries  
Raspberry sirup  Jellies of raspberries, blackberries, and currants 

 How to put up peaches  Brandy peaches  Quinces  Two 
kinds of pickled cucumbers  Pickled cabbage  Sweet pickles  
Tomato catsup  Tarragon vinegar 192 

LETTER XXIV 

Suggestions for an evening entertainment  Pickled oysters  Sand- 
wiches, and how to make them  Three recipes for mixed butter 

 Salted almonds  Tea punch  Cardinal punch  Snow punch 

 Ambrosia  Almond milk  Four menus for luncheons  Four 
menus for dinners 201 

INDEX 211 



LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 



LETTER I 

'L'utile, pour moi, c'est le beau. 



Charles Jobey. 



SO you are going to begin housekeeping ? And as I prom- 
ised you a friend's advice whenever this event should 
occur, I am ready to keep my promise. With the 

\ 11 r Introductory. 

exception that I have the advantage over you of 
being older, and therefore, of course, so much the wiser, our 
cases are almost parallel. We have not been raised in luxury ; 
we both have married worthy men, who have to use their 
brains and energy to provide for bread and butter, and, since 
our natures " cry for it," a great deal more in addition. Your 
husband like mine furnishes the means for a modest but com- 
fortable living, and you and I are bound in return to see that 
the waste of force and brain-power he is obhged to undergo is 
day by day restored, and his vitality kept unimpaired by those 
chemicals of which our mortal frame is made up, and which 
we call food. 

Now do not think that what you have undertaken is mere 
play. It is, on the contrary, a tolerably severe task  and a 
great pleasure at the same time when you see that your efforts 
are succeeding. 

Do you believe that a morning's work can be done comfort- 
ably on a gruel breakfast ? Do you think a stomach would not 
rebel against a continued diet of roast beef and chops ? If you 
wish your husband to be nervously debilitated by and by, dis- 
heartened and the reverse of cheerful, give him breakfasts with- 

I 



-J LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

out substance and dinners without variety. Be they cooked as 
well as you please, that will not tend to mend matters in the long 
run. 

Your task being not easy, I am going to be a severe teacher. 
I require of you, my pupil, from the start that, being a house- 
keeper, you devote each day some of your best thinking to 
the bill of fare and the meals to be served. I do not think it 
waste of time. Try it, and you will feel satisfied with the 
result. With all that science and experience contribute nowa- 
days, cooking is more of an art than ever, for an art it has 
been considered ever since people became civilized. Nor is 
it a peculiarly feminine occupation. There have been male 
cooks always,  some of them famous, as we know,  and there 
are not a few among men of genius and distinction who have 
given more or less attention to culinary accomplishments. In 
Plato's opinion it brought no dishonor to a philosopher in case 
of necessity to cook his own meal ; and Baronius, a cardinal 
and learned theologian of the INIiddle Ages, took pride in the 
preparation of meals, writing over his mantelpiece with his 
own hand : " Caesar Baronius, permanent cook." Richelieu, 
also, and Mazarin, his successor, looked closely into the details 
of their cuisines. Rousseau was an expert in cooking eggs in 
various styles, while Lamartine, the poet, was taught by his 
tutor, the Abbe Dumont, to cook a plain dinner. Our own 
countryman, Rumford, who was made a count in Germany, 
invented the soup which is called by his name, benefiting 
thereby the poorer classes of the people. And who has not 
heard of the amiable and refined Brillat-Savarin ? You must 
acknowledge, my friend, that we have a galaxy of renowed ex- 
amples before us, whom to follow we need not be ashamed. 
But, if an art, cooking is also a study, and my advice would be 
to make it a study first and an art afterward. This implies that 
you are not to take what I say, or what the cook-books (a whole 
host of them) tell you, according to the letter, but that you will 
have to catch the spirit of it all, and do as it directs. In this 
way  the intelligent way  you will become the inventor, the 
true artist, the benefactor. 



LETTER I 3 

This is my first injunction : To provide for your meals buy 
the best of materials ; it is the cheapest, because it goes 
furthest in nourishing. This is especially true of the most 
important of all food, meat ; inasmuch as the flesh of all 
the higher animals furnishing food contains nearly all the sub- 
stances of which the human frame is made up. For this reason 
you must know how to distinguish between good and bad meat. 
In giving you the requisite indications I follow Dr. Wiel, whose 
" Diaetetisches Kochbuch " has been my teacher in many 
respects ; i, Meat when of a pale red color shows How to choose 
that the animal had been ailing; 2, when of a '^^^^ 
deep purple that it died (was not slaughtered) ; 3, when 
healthy and well-fed the color is of a dark pink ingrained with 
white, which is fat ; 4, the fat of a healthy animal is of a pure 
white, and hard ; 5, the fat of a sickly one is of a yellowish white, 
and soft and watery to the touch. It follows that you have 
to do your own marketing yourself. 

The two principal ingredients of the meat are the muscular 
fibre and the juice. In the latter is contained the albumen, 
which is of so much value in restoring us from day to day. 
The fibre, however, determines the relative nutritive properties 
of the meat. In this respect well-fed beef is highest in rank. 
And of the beef again it is the loin and sirloin which are the most 
nutritious parts as well as the easiest to digest. The poorest 
pieces are the flank, neck, and shank. Their nutritive value is 
about ten times less than that of the loin, sirloin, rib piece, 
and rump. The remaining parts are inferior to the latter and 
superior to the former ; they are of more or less relative value ; 
in the hands of an intelligent cook, however, the least nutritive 
piece even may be turned into good and palatable food. You 
must learn that even the best piece of meat is not fit for roast- 
ing or stewing unless it has been kept for some 

c 1 1  rr-.   1 Meat must be 

tmie alter slaughtermg. To give it the necessary kept tin f it for 
tenderness it has to pass through a certain pro- ''^^' 
cess, which in reality is the first degree of decomposition. In 
this way an acid  the lactic acid  is developed, which tends 
to soften the fibre otherwise tough. This process, however, 



4 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

can take place only with meat kept at a temperature above 
ireezing-point. If meat is frozen it has to be thawed gradually 
and^then put to use at once, or it will soon be beyond the 
proper stage of ferment. The time necessary for the right 
sort of decomposition to set in is longer or shorter according 
to the different kinds of meat and the seasons. In summer 
^, ,. beef is readv for use in one or two davs, while in 

The time neces- _ _ ^ ' ' 

sary for keeping wlntcr it takcs about a week. Veal and lamb 

meat. , , . t r   

take two days m summer, and four to six m 
winter ; mutton, one to two in summer, and three to six in 
winter ; venison, four in summer, and ten to twelve in winter ; 
poultry, one to two days in summer, and four days at least in 
winter ; game, from one to twelve days. If at any time you 
should be obliged to use a piece of meat while it is still too 
fresh, you may remedy the case by pouring over it some 
boihng hot vinegar, then wiping it dry with a clean towel 
before putting it into your pan. 

This leads me to the kitchen fire, the importance of which is 
so little appreciated by our kitchen maids. The best of mate- 
importance of rial is apt to be spoiled and made tasteless by 
the kitchen fire, githej- ^oo hot or too slow a fire. A well-regu- 
lated fire is absolutely necessary in preparing good and nutri- 
tious food. It ought to be made a special study by each house- 
keeper, who, in turn, ought to instruct her servant. It is a 
known fact that water, after getting to the boiling point  /. e. 
showing an agitated surface  does not increase in temperature. 
As soon as this point is reached a slackening fire will do the 
same sen-ice as a lively one. The lesson to be derived from 
this is one of economy. The importance of the right sort of 
fire in preparing different kinds of food was known in ancient 
times. Some curious works have come down to us written 
by Greek cooks of old. One of them says : " You must 
see to the strong, the medium, and the slow fire according 
to the dishes you wish to prepare " ; and then he adds : 
" Nor is he the genuine cook who handles the pan, swings 
the ladle or the meat-knife, or who serves up a delicacy ; 
but he it is who knows to keep the right measure, and 



I 



LETTER I O 

gives the necessary temperature to each dish of food he 
cooks." 

Well, we have made a beginning of what we have to learn. 
We will proceed step by step, until we reach the top of the 
ladder, only to find that there is no end to the pursuit of knowl- 
edge  even in the matter of cooking. 



LETTER II 

Je crois qu'il est tres bon de reveler aux hommes 
Les secrets de se bien nourrir. 

 Charles Jobey. 

YOU never had the benefit of a cooking-school? Neither 
had I. By-the-bye, I found out the other day that cooking- 
schools are by no means a modern institution ; for during the 
reign of Louis XIV. of France Madame de Sabl^ distinguished 
herself among the court ladies  all dabbling in cookery  by 
establishing a cooking-school, where the Duke of Larochefou- 
cauld was counted one of her best pupils. 

I was going to say that although our cooking-schools are ex- 
cellent, and are doing a great deal of good, a woman of common 
intelligence and good sense may never come near one, and yet 
become a good cook and housekeeper by the grace of her own 
ingenuity. Necessity and love of home combining, she will 
soon make herself acquainted with the first rudiments of cook- 
ing, and then her own experiences will teach her more and more. 
It is astonishing how many cook-books have been published of 
every size and kind. Still, many as there are, new and old, 
I think there is room for more of them ; for cooking is gradually 
passing into a new phase by the help of modern chemistry. It 
,.j was Liebisf who first called public attention to the 

What Liebig did ^ ^ i  i 

for the advance chcmical proccss performed m every kitchen for 
coo ery. ^^^ purposc of rcstoHng the daily waste of the 

human body ; who taught us in his " Chemische Briefe " how to 
roast meat, and why the piece of meat w^hich has furnished us 
with a good broth is devoid of nutriment. Others have followed 
him, and intelligent housekeepers are beginning to see that they 
have to study in order to become adequate providers for their 
families. In my opinion the cook-books of the future will have 
6 



LETTER II Y 

to take cognizance of the practical side of chemistry as demon- 
strated by modern scholars. 

I touched on the subject of economy in my last in speaking 
of the kitchen fire, and now mean to impress upon on the subject 
your mind that in this word "economy," when of economy. 
coupled with intelligence, you have the key to the secret how 
to have a better table with restricted means than many a 
family paying large sums for no end of provisions. In the first 
place, it is absolutely wrong to be wasteful, and in the second 
place it is not ladylike to be so. This may comfort you when 
your servant, as ignorant persons are apt to do, will confound 
in her mind meanness with economy. Do not allow yourself to 
be troubled in the least by such a doubt on her part, for it is a 
matter of false pride to be influenced thus as long as you know 
better. Nor will you be able to carry out the principle of 
economy without making your servant your assistant. You will 
have to teach her imperatively that you will allow no waste of 
any kind  that no particle of food is to be throv/n some ways of 
away without your orders. Food, if left over, be it economizing. 
ever so small in quantity, is to be put on clean platters, and set 
away for your inspection next day. In this way, for instance, I 
have often made of little remnants of different kinds of cooked 
food the most palatable of soups. Bones left over, cooked or 
not, ought to be cracked, and added to the contents of the soup- 
kettle. The superfluous fat of a roast is better trimmed off 
when raw, and prepared for future use by cutting it in squares, 
and rendering or " trying it out." Have the clean drippings 
poured through a fine sieve into a bowl, and set away in a cool 
place. The fat left after the meat has been served may be ap- 
propriated to the same purpose, but it is inferior in quality. 
The drippings of different kinds of meat are better kept sepa- 
rate. Mutton drippings are only fit to use when fresh. If 
cooked up with a slice of onion, they are delicious to fry pota- 
toes with. The fat taken from a chicken and rendered is nearly 
as good as butter for cooking purposes. 

I want also to call your attention to the bread-box. Pieces 
will accumulate in it, and may be used up in different ways  the 



8 LETrERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

nice pieces for various dishes, of which later ; the odds and ends 

to dry in the oven, and roll into crumbs for breading chops, etc. 
Parsley, celery leaves and stalks, pieces of raw carrot left 

over, may be dried, and kept  each separate  for future use. 
These are merely hints on which to enlarge for yourself 
In marketing, look out for the best material. I said before 

that it is the cheapest, because it contains the most nutrim.ent ; 
therefore, it ffoes the furthest to satisfy the appetite. 

About marketing. , , , -, -.i i i i 

A V hen you buy you should well calculate your needs 
as to quantity. When brought home, all articles not for imme- 
diate use should be taken care of at once and stored in proper 
places. The next thing is to use your marketing in such a way 
as to make the most of it. Even the best materials will be in- 
sufficient to nourish if not put to their proper uses. To attain 
this, each article of food has to be prepared in such a way as 
to preserve intact the nutriments contained in it as much as 
The way to pre- possiblc, and carc has also to be taken to bring 
pare food. q^^ jj.^ particular flavor ; this makes food palatable 

and favors digestion. Too much heat will dry up the juiciest 
of meat. The wrong kind of spice, or too much of it, will kill 
the delicate flavor of animal or vegetable food, and rob it of its 
wholesome nature. 

Nor is it a matter of indifference what kind of food you pro- 
vide, and in what way you combine the different kinds. There 
^ _, . ^ _, is a certain amount of waste G^oincr on in our 

Food rs needed . '-' *-" 

to counteract bodlcs day by day, which must be replaced by the 

the daily waste , i  i i i i ^  ^ 

of the human samc elements which have been spent, ana which 
^^^' are contained in the foods provided by nature. 

These elements, and the manner in which they are distributed 
in our foods, are a matter for you to study, in order to become 
the judicious provider for your family. 

There are two classes of nutrients which concern us mostly. 
(i) The plastic materials, so called because they build up and 
The chemistry repair the organs of the human body, and renew 
of food. the hfe-giving blood. (2) The heat and breath 

producing materials  the fuel by which the human machine is 
kept going. Of the former the chief element is nitrogen, 



LETTER II 



which is furnished by the albumen in animal substances, by 
the gluten in cereals, and legumin in vegetables ; by casein in 
milk, etc. They are classed by the name of albuminoids, or 
protein. The second class consist chiefly of carbon and 
hydrogen, and are summed up as carbohydrates. They are 
contained in sugar, starch, dextrin, alcohol, water, and in the 
fats of animals and vegetables. The fats, however, are often 
classed by themselves, and further on, in giving you the daily 
rations of food as set down by the latest investigations, you 
will find special mention made of them. 

There is still another and equally important class of ele- 
ments  anorganic substances  such as sulphur, lime, phos- 
phorus, potassium, calcium, sodium chloride (common salt), 
iron and other minerals, which enter into the composition of 
our blood and bones. Either one of these three (or four) 
classes of nutrients without the others will fail to nourish man 
or beast. But it is the first and second class which principally 
concern us, the fats being contained and distributed among the 
animal and vegetable food-materials in such a way as to need 
but small attention, while the anorganic and mineral substances 
are to be found so wisely mixed with the albuminoids and 
carbohydrates that we may let them take care of themselves. 

Most scholars agree that for every part of albuminoids there 
must be four parts of carbohydrates in our daily food. Next 
we have to know how much of either of these jhe rations 
food-elements is necessary to nourish human necessary daily. 
beings each day. The following is now generally accepted as 
being the daily rations on an average for persons of different 
sex and ages :  



For children up to i^ years . 
For children from 6-15 years 

For a man 

For a woman 

For an aged man .... 
For an ag^ed woman , . , 



Albuminoids. 


Fats. 


Carbohydrates. 


Ounces. 


Ounces. 


Ounces. 


0.7 to 1.3 


I to 1.6 


2.3 to 3.3 


2.5 to 2.9 


1.2 to 1.9 


8.6 to 14.4 


4.2 


2 


17.6 


3-3 


1-5 


14.4 


3-5 


2.4 


12.5 


2.9 


1.9 


9-3 



10 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

This is meant for persons who work but moderately. A per- 
son of leisure would need less albuminoids ; a laboring man or 
woman would need more. Besides, there have to be consid- 
ered the condition of health, the calling and temperament of 
the persons in question, as well as the climate and the seasons. 
It follows that a table may be loaded with luxurious dishes and 
delicacies, and yet fail to nourish properly those feasting on 
them. Unless they are so chosen as to yield in their combi- 
nation the right proportion of the nutrients required to repair 
the daily wastes of the human body, they will do harm instead 
of good. 

You might say, " How comes it, then, that mankind is still 
in existence, since the science of the kitchen was unknown 
heretofore ? " It is, indeed, a fact to be wondered at when we 
consider the barbarities practised in the way of feeding and 
cooking even to the present day. There are two things, how- 
ever, in favor of man : one is the toughness of his frame, 
which seems to be able to stand a good deal of abuse ; the 
other is that mysterious guide called instinct, which led 'people 
from the start to find out what is good for them and what not. 
But instinct, somehow, seems to beat its retreat when civili- 
zation advances triumphantly, and neither you nor I would fare 
well or be satisfied to rely always on that sort of leadership, 
when science is holding up her torch-light to show us the 
" how " and " why." Just think of all the persons we know, 
young and old, ailing of no one knows what  of mysterious 
troubles called anaemia, dyspepsia, liver complaint, etc. ! 
Who knows but that such persons are either half-starved or 
over-fed, for which ailments no physician can aid them ? 

I would advise you to study this subject earnestly. There 
is many a spare hour in which to do it. And it pays. There 
are books to teach you  books which treat of the kitchen as a 
laboratory for preparing the chemical compounds necessary to 
preserve and foster life, but which so far, I am afraid, have not 
found many readers among our sex. Meanwhile the hints I 
give you may help a little to pave the way. 

The following will furnish you with a rough estimate of the 



LETTER II 11 

nutritive values we have in our principal food-materials as to 
nitrogen (albuminoids) and carbon (carbohydrates). 

These values may be divided into three different classes : 
First, food in which nitrogen and carbon are combined  the 
class to be rated as the hisrhest ; second, food 

. ^ . . Nutritive values 

which contams chiefly nitrogen, and therefore has in food-mate- 
to be complemented by articles of the third class ; 
third, food which chiefly consists of carbon, and has to be 
complemented by food of the second class. Here follows a 
list to choose from according to the above values :  

Food of the first class : Fat meat ; beef-tea made without 
heat ; milk ; fat oysters ; all unbolted flour, and gruel and 
bread made thereof; dried beans, peas and lentils; cabbages, 
especially cauliflower ; kale, spinach, lettuce, string beans, and 
green peas ; onions and leeks ; mushrooms ; tea, coffee, and 
chocolate. 

Food of the second class : Lean meat ; eggs ; fresh fish ; 
lean oysters and clams ; cured fish, especially cod, herring, 
salmon, and sardines ; cheese made of milk. 

Food of the third class : Salt pork, very fat ; wheat bread ; 
wheat flour, corn meal; sugar; rice, sago, barley, farina, corn- 
starch ; macaroni, vermicelli ; potatoes, sweet potatoes, turnips, 
carrots, parsnips ; fruit ; ferm.ented beverages. 

Your task is to select from these three classes of food your 
materials and combine them in such a way as to give you, as 
nearly as possible, the correct proportions of albuminoids and 
carbohydrates demanded to supply the daily rations for the 
persons you have to provide for. In doing so, however, you 
have to bear in mind that what you buy is not food consisting 
of pure albuminoids and carbohydrates, but materials more or 
less mixed with refuse, like the bones and sinews of meat ; and 
that in addition you have the mineral matters and the water, 
all of which tell in weio;ht. C. Voit, the Sfreat 

* ' *^ C. Voit's esti- 

physiologist of Munich, says that a full-grown mate of a fuii 
person to get his full ration of albuminoids needs 
at least 8.2 ounces of meat a day, of which there are bones 
about 0.6 ounce, fat 0.7 ounce, and pure muscle 6.9 ounces. 



12 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

He adds that the latter may be replaced by poultry, or fish, 
and also either entirely or in part by cheese, and dishes 
prepared with milk or milk and egg. 

I follow him also in stating that of the whole amount of food 
not more than one-third ought to consist of animal matters  
the other two-thirds having to be made up from vegetable 
produce. A purely vegetable diet would require a considerably 
larger amount of albuminoids than is given in the table of daily 
rations, because the digestive properties of the nitrogen of 
vesfctable food are from one-fourth to one-third less than 
those of the same substance in animal food. 

It remains for me to give you an idea of the percentages of 
the different nutrients in the food-materials with which we have 
to work. But I prefer to do this as I go along, mentioning 
their proportionate values when I come to deal separately with 
the cooking materials and the preparing of them. 

I may remark here that on the whole we eat too much meat. 
We would fare better if we relied for our animal food more 
We eat too much ou the products of the dairies. This cannot be 
^^^^- preached enough to persons of moderate means, 

inasmuch as the dairies furnish us with a larger quantity of 
nutrients for the same money than meat does. Although your 
circumstances and mine are not so much restricted as to 
impose on us real privations, it is comfortable to know that, 
in reducing our butcher's bill and favoring the dairyman, we 
get a pleasant substitute for the same amount of nourishment, 
and at the same time are practising the virtue of economy. 
This method, moreover, helps us to a greater variety in our 
meals ; and variety of necessity promotes the appetite and aids 
digestion. You might succeed in putting on your table each 
day the exact amount of albuminoids combined with the right 
proportion of carbohydrates, and fail at the same time to satisfy 
the appetite of the consumer. Food, after being eaten, has to 
be assimilated  taken up by the system in such a way as to 
serve its purpose ; and to attain this effect in many cases the 
eye needs to be tempted as well as the stomach. Both easily 
tire if the same things are continually set before them. And 



LETTER II 13 

there is the palate also, which is as severe a critic as you would 
wish to have. Therefore, you must have variety in your daily 
fare ; it must look well ; it must taste well ; in short, your food 
must be cooked and served in the best possible way. 

The cooking of it is what concerns us most at present. I am 
ready to step into the kitchen with you in my next. 



LETTER III 

L'appetit vient en mangeant. 

FIRST of all you wish to know how to boil meat, and make 
the most of it for soup. Suppose you have bought a piece 
of meat for this purpose, and want to get from it as good a 
broth as possible. What we do first is to cleanse 

How to boil . ,,..., , , 

meat and it \v e do SO by rubbmg It on with a clean towel, 

ma e soup. j^ spUuters of boue, sand, etc., have to be re- 

moved, we scrape it with a clean but dull knife. In extreme 
cases it may be rinsed quickly with water ; but be sure never 
to immerse your meat. If you do, the surface of it will be 
robbed of its best juices. These we want as much as possible 
to preserve for our broth. To this end we take a soup-kettle 
with a tight-fitting lid, which we fill with cold water, and in this 
water we put the meat, adding a little salt. In allowing the 
water to get hot gradually the blood with the albumen and the 
mineral matters are extracted from the meat and imparted to 
the water. As soon as the latter reaches the boiling point the 
kettle has to be removed to a place where it will merely " smile " 
as the French term it ; which means, of course, that it must 
simmer or boil gently. After a while we see a brown scum 
rirjing ; this is the albumen, which coagulates in the boiling 
water and thus is lost as a nutrient. Consequently, meat or 
soup broth is not of great nutritive value. It is merely a stim- 
ulant on account of the so-called " extractives " in it, of which 
gelatine (or glue) is also a part, and, as such, important in the 
process of nutrition. The gelatine in the broth is the result of 
continued boiling, and proceeds from the tendons, bones, and 
gristle, or what is called the connective tissue of the meat. 
These extractives give the aroma to the broth. 
H 



LETITR III 15 

The scum, or albumen, when coming to the surface, has to 
be removed by a skimmer in order to get a clear broth. To 
leave it in would make the soup unsightly, and besides albu- 
men, when coagulated, is not easily digested. The meat which 
remains after all the good is drawn out is worthless, and if 
eaten will not be digested, even by a healthy stomach. Since 
this meat is refuse, I advise cutting it into small pieces before 
putting it in the soup-kettle, adding the bones separately. In 
this way there is no doubt of the meat yielding in the course 
of several hours all it contains. I must not forget to mention 
that for broth  but only for broth  meat freshly _ , 

J 'To make soup, 

butchered is the best. And, now, before pro- get meat freshly 
ceeding to tell you when to add the vegetables, 
which are to increase the flavor of the soup-liquor, and the 
proportions, I will stop and give you the recipe for making a 
broth which preserves all the nutrients of the meat and for 
cases of debility, sickness, or convalescence is invaluable. It 
is made without fuel of any kind. 

Take three ounces of freshly butchered meat of the best sort, 
without fit or sinew (either beef or fowl) ; chop it fine, put it 
in a china bowl, and cover it with water which 
has been boiled and become cold (or better, dis- b rh pr^SrvIng 
tilled water from the druggist's), until one inch g'^ts'^ot meat 
above the meat. Then add a pinch of salt, and 
five to six drops of muriatic acid ; stir well this mixture by 
means of a small glass spoon ; cover up the bowl and let it re- 
main in a cool place for three to four hours. At the end of 
that time strain the liquid, which has a pale red color, through 
a hair sieve ; pour over the meat some more of the water, 
while pressing it down with a wooden ladle, until it gets 
entirely discolored and you have liquor sufficient to fill a 
large teacup quite full. This is enough for one portion. Two 
such cups are the most a person ought to take during one day. 
It is in liquid form the same as the meat itself. 

I return now to the ordinary soup-liquor, and will sum up 
the whole for you thus :  

Take of lean meat freshly butchered one pound, of bones 



16 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

one pound ; cut the meat in large dice ; crack the bones ; put 
- . . all in a soup-kettle holding a little over three 

Recipe for . 

the ordinary quarts ; fill up with cold water nearly full ; add 

one saltspoonful of salt. Heat slowly, allowing it 
to simmer or boil gently ; skim off the scum that rises. After 
one hour add two more saltspoonfuls of salt, and continue boil- 
ing until the liquor is clear. Then add your vegetables : a small 
carrot or a piece of a large one, a parsley root, the half of a 
celery root (the turnip-rooted), one or two of the large celery 
leaves, one small leek (it is more delicate than onion), half a 
turnip. Allow it to boil one hour longer, or until the vege- 
tables are done, when strain through a fine sieve; allow the fat 
to settle on top, and skim it off with care. 

Some housekeepers are in favor of making their soup-liquor 
the day before it is to be used, in order to remove the fat more 
readily. Except for economy's sake, or to save time, I prefer 
to cook it the same day I want to use it, because in reheating 
the broth some of its flavor is certainly lost. With clean sheets 
of blotting paper the remaining traces of the soup-grease are 
easily and thoroughly removed. The brown paper of the gro- 
cers will also do it. 

See that your soup-kettle is always tightly covered, lest the 
aroma of your soup escape with the steam. I w^ill add, for the 
benefit of your economical propensities, that the soup-vegeta- 
bles, by not being overdone, may be put to some further use. 
They have given, to be sure, their best properties to the broth, 
but in exchange they have taken to themselves the broth which 
has entered their cells. 

For the benefit of the German middle classes, who make 
a meal of their soup, in which the meat and a vegetable 
are boiled. Dr. Wiel, in his " Diaetetisches Kochbuch," gives a 
recipe for ^' a better piece of meat, and yet a good soup." 
The sum of what he says is this :  

Divide your meat into two portions, one containing all the 
sinewy parts, and the bones with the meat next to them, while 
the other must be a piece of solid meat. Chop the meat of 
the first portion, split the bones, and pour cold water over it. 



LETTER III 17 

For one pound of meat take three quarts of water, which ^^^ll 
give you about one quart of good strong broth 
in the end. After putting in sufficient salt, some goo'd s^up.^'and 
muriatic acid (from the druggist's) must be added. JoJ'^se^ "^^^^ 
For one pound of meat about six drops, no 
more. Allow to stand in a cold place for a couple of hours ; 
during this time the water will extract all the strength of the 
meat. Then heat it gradually, and when it comes to a boil, 
and not before, put in the second portion of sohd meat, after 
tying it up tight with strong twine. By this process less of the 
surface of the meat is exposed, and the boiling water produces 
an impenetrable crust by coagulation, thus preventing the loss 
of the nutritive juices. Allow the whole to boil gently until 
the meat is tender. Put your vegetables in after the broth has 
been skimmed. 

It is well to know this recipe for economical purposes. A 
piece of meat boiled in this way makes a good dish for break- 
fast, either as a hash, a stew, or in the shape of croquettes. It 
may also serve to help out on the kitchen table. For econ- 
omy's sake also, I would advise you (since we want a soup to 
begin dinner with) not to buy soup-meat oftener than twice .a 
week. If a first-class broth is not needed do not exhaust the 
whole of your soup-meat and bones. Drain off the liquor 
wanted for the day, refill the kettle with water, adding such 
scraps of meat, cooked or raw, as have been left over or cannot 
be used in other ways ; add bones also if you have them. 
Always crack the latter. Add some more salt and cook up. 
Let stand over until next day when fresh vegetables can be put 
in after it has come to a boil. I have often made a third edi- 
tion by adding Liebig's meat extract. This you may alwayo 
do if your broth is not of sufficiently good quality. Only be 
sure not to take too much of it. Meat extract  containing 
all the extractives, but not the albumen of the meat  is a stim- 
ulant rather than a nutritive, and as such is fulfilling an impor- 
tant part in the process of nutrition. As a stimulant, however, 
it is powerful enough to affect the heart if taken in too large 
a quantity. A heaped teaspoonful is sufficient for a quart 



18 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

of soup ; or, take a lump the size of a dried bean for a 
plateful. 

This may be the proper time to make you acquainted with 
the way Liebig himself had the meat extract used in his own 
household, instead of broth made of fresh meat :  

Take two quarts of cold water ; put in it either half a pound 

of cracked marrow-bones or one ounce of beef suet, and such 

vegetables as are handy ; boil until the latter are 

uifn/hls'^meaf douc, whicli takcs about one hour. Now strain 

extract for ^j^g liquid, aud add half an ounce good weight of 

making soup. t. ? o o 

meat extract, and the necessary salt. This is 
soup-liquor sufficient for seven persons. 

The flavor of broth can be improved or varied by taking dif- 
ferent kinds of meat at the same time ; as, for instance, adding 
a slice of ham to veal, or a piece of liver to beef. If amber- 
Amber-coiored colorcd broth is Wanted the vegetables may be 
^'^^- sliced thin and fried brown with a very htde butter 

before being added to the liquor in the soup-kettle. Fat meat 
is not the proper kind for the soup-pot. An old chicken 
makes an excellent soup of delicate flavor. Venison, game, 
and pigeons make as nourishing a soup as can be. In Catholic 
countries a good soup is made of various fish. But even water 
soups can be made exceedingly palatable. A good way to im- 
prove both the taste and nutritive value of soup, is to add one 
or more eggs. In doing so care has to be taken to prevent 
curdHng. Beat up the egg thoroughly with a tablespoonful of 
either water, milk, or cream ; add slowly a ladleful of the hot 
soup after removing it from the fire, stirring all the while. 
Then add this to the soup, stirring also ; or, better, pour it into 
the soup-tureen, and add the soup to it while stirring. In 
using the whole- egg we have the benefit of the white, which 
being largely albumen increases the nutritive value of the soup ; 
but in using the yolk merely, a velvety smoothness of the soup 
is attained, which is marred by the white of the egg. There- 
fore, you may choose between the two as you judge best. 
Whenever I take the yolk and not the white, I am in the habit 
of saving the latter, and using it with another egg, or with 



LETTER III 19 

two, for croquettes, pancakes, etc. When I have as many as 
three or four whites, I use them for making a dehcate white- 
of-egg pudding  of which hereafter. 

A small remnant of a vegetable dish added to a soup  it 
must harmonize, to be sure, with the rest  is a good thing 
often ; but the best vegetable to add is tomato, occasional addi- 
which never spoils a rice, macaroni, vermicelli, ^'oi^s to soup. 
or vegetable soup. Another very nice addition is "roses" of 
cauhflower, or bits of asparagus boiled until just done in the soup 
itself. In this way they impart their flavor and best properties 
to the soup ; which is not so much the case if boiled by them- 
selves in salt water, unless the water is added to the soup with 
them. Certain soups are also improved by some minced pars- 
ley, which had better be put into the tureen just before the 
soup is poured in, or it might lose its aromatic property. In 
the south of Germany they add cives cut very fine ; but this is 
a matter of individual taste. Bread is often added too. Cut 
some of your stale pieces into either small dice or thin well- 
shaped slices ; have ready a hot frying-pan ; put in a very small 
bit of butter, or pork drippings (chicken fat is very good), and 
after it is done hissing put in your bread, tossing or stirring it 
frequently, until of a rich yellow or brown on all sides ; keep 
hot and dry, and either add to the soup-tureen the last moment, 
or have it served and handed around separately. 

I might go on indefinitely to theorize in this fashion about 
soups, and teach you the "composing " of them without giving 
you a single recipe. I will, however, stop short, and give you 
some detailed samples in my next. 



LETTER IV 

Je vis de bonne soupe et non de beau langage.  Moliere. 

THE soup is, according to Brillat-Savarin, our philosopher of 
the kitchen, " la premiere consolation de I'estoraac besoi- 
gneux"  the prime comfort of the eager stomach. The French, 
About soup Germans, and Italians have it on their table every 

in general. ^^y |-q begin dinner with. As for their poor it is 

often all they have for their mid-day meal. The middle classes 
are apt to make their soup the nucleus of their dinner by 
adding the rest of the meal to the soup-pot and serving it on 
separate dishes. In the south of Germany soup is eaten at 
dinner and at supper by many a family of the upper classes  
a custom which seems to be very old elsewhere, if we are to 
judge from a French proverb dating centuries back, which 
says :  

Without his soup at eve and morn 

Is my good Christian all forlorn. ^ 

I said before that soup-liquor is more of a stimulant than 
a nutrient. It is owing to the substances you add that, as 
soup, it becomes more or less nourishing. The following ex- 
ample will demonstrate to you how nourishing it can be made 
by study. The recipe is called 

Rumford Soup from its inventor, and is composed on the 
principle of getting what is necessary to nourish in the cheapest 
way. It was for his merit in bettering the condition of the 
poorer classes that Benjamin Thompson, an American, was 
made Count Rumford by the Prince-Elector of Bavaria in the 

1 " Soupe le soir, soupe le matin, 
C'est I'ordinaire du bon chretien." 
20 



LETTER IV 21 

beginning of the century. Being a scholar in national economy- 
he found out by means of chemical researches how to obtain 
nourishment at lowest cost. It is by the Rumford Soup that he 
is now chiefly remembered. There are several versions of this 
soup. I have tried the following, and found it not only satisfy- 
ing to the appetite but also palatable. 

Soak three cups of dried peas over night ; put them to cook 
with plenty of cold water ; when they come to a boil add three- 
quarters of a pound of fresh pork, one cup of Recipe for 
barley, and the necessary salt. Now get ready ^^'^^"i Soup. 
four large potatoes, peel, wash, and slice them, and add them 
to the above about half an hour before meal-time. Allow at 
least three hours for peas and barley to get pulpy and for the 
pork to get done. Add boiling water if necessary to thin the 
soup, but it ought to be rather thick. When done remove the 
pork, cut it in dice and set it away in the covered tureen in a 
warm place. Pour the soup in a colander and strain, rubbing 
it through with a potato-masher. Heat up again the strained 
soup, add some minced parsley to the pork in the tureen and 
serve your soup over it. 

Now let us see what nutrients we have in this recipe. The 
following table will show it :  

Albuminoids. Fats. Carbohydrates. 

Peas 23 percent. 2 percent. 52 percent. 

Barley 7.5 per cent. i per cent. 76 per cent. 

Potatoes 2 percent. o percent. 20.7 per cent. 

Fat pork (bones excepted) . . 14.5 per cent. 37.5 per cent. o per cent. 

Total 47 percent. 40.5 per cent. 148.7 per cent. 

In adding the fat to the carbohydrates you will find that the 
total is pretty nearly as one to four, which is the proportion 
necessary to give proper nourishment and keep the system in 
a healthy condition. 

Since charity is a virtue to be practised in every household, 
you will remember this recipe when a poor man or woman, or 
whole family, is to be fed. Only see that they get enough of 
the ingredients to make up as near as possible the ration each 
person needs every day. I would advise to put this soup on 



OD 



LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 



your own table now and then when you happen to have but a 
slender steak to follow, or perhaps a dish made of some rem- 
nant of the day before  some croquettes, or a stew and no 
roast. For, mind you, we please ourselves (our husbands in- 
cluded) in this, that we do not ape the wealthy in a profusion 
of meats and courses, which would soon exhaust our funds and 
the capabilities of our husbands to furnish them. We are of 
one opinion in this, as you have assured me, that a simple meal, 
as long as it supplies the needful nourishment, is a comfort all 
around, if only prepared with care and served "with grace," 
as Brillat-Savarin ordains for the pheasant. It saves both time 
and labor. It promotes health and cheerfulness. 

To be able to select the soup best suited for the day it is 
well to consider our subject under three different heads : 
Soups divided soups made of preparations of cereals, those 
into three classes, made of vcgctablcs, and those made from animal 
substances. Fish soups, although properly included in the 
latter class, I will leave out for the present. 

For the first kind of soups we have chiefly wheat flour, farina, 
barley, sago, rice, vermicelli. These are rich in starch, which 
belongs to the carbohydrates, as you know, and take rank in 
tliis way :  

Albuminoids. Fats. Carbohydrates. 

Wheat flour lo per cent. i per cent. 75.2 per cent. 

Farina 10 per cent. 1 per cent. 75.2 per cent. 

Vermicelli 9 per cent. 0.5 per cent. 76.5 per cent. 

Rice 8 per cent. 1 per cent. 76.5 per cent. 

Barley 7.5 per cent. i percent. 76 percent. 

Of the vegetables as nutrients there is not much to say, their 
value as such ranking rather low, with the exception of dried 
peas, beans, and lentils. These three are valuable, as the fol- 
lowing shows :  

Albuminoids. Fats. Carbohydrates. 

Peas 23 per cent. 2 per cent. 52 per cent. 

Beans 23 per cent. 2 per cent. 53.3 per cent. 

Lentils 25.5 per cent, 2 per cent. 54 per cent. 

But valuable as they are, they require good digestive capacity, 
and therefore may be kept in reserve, while preference is given 



LETTER IV 23 

to the more delicate although less nutritious vegetables for 
soups. 

The third kind of soups  those consisting of animal sub- 
stances  are the most nourishing if made of chopped meat, 
such as beef, venison, chicken, pigeon, game, sweetbread, calf s 
brain, etc. 

Of each of these three kinds of soups you may borrow for 
the other two. You can add, for instance, vegetables to the 
cereal products ; or animal matter to a vegetable soup ; or you 
may mix ingredients belonging to all three classes of soups. 
Only take care that each substance is in harmony with the 
other, and that the whole is agreeable to the eye as well as to 
the taste. 

To begin with the starchy matters, it is a safe rule to take a 
tablespoonful for each person of either farina, barley, rice, etc. 
They are added to the boihng liquor while stirring s^^pg ^ade 
to prevent the forming of lumps. Boil gently, of cereals. 
As to time, farina takes about fifteen minutes to get done ; 
sago, about five minutes, or until clear; barley, from one to 
two hours to get properly cooked. Rice takes about half an 
hour in soup. It has to be washed and scalded beforehand. 
Vermicelli, according to thickness, takes from five to forty 
minutes to get done. 

I will remark here that I always mean my recipes for three 
persons, unless differently stated. I begin with some plain 
soup :  

Farina Soup.  Take the finest wheat farina, measure off 
your quantity (a tablespoonful for each person) ; stir gradually 
into your boiling liquor (about half a pint for a person) ; cover 
up, and let boil for fifteen minutes, stirring the soup every now 
and then with a spoon. Have the yolk of one egg beaten up 
with a tablespoonful of cream (or milk) ; add this at the last 
moment, proceeding as told before.^ Salt to taste. This soup 
ought to be of a creamy smoothness. 

Flour Soup No. i.  Mix two tablespoonfuls of flour with a 

1 See p. i8. 



24 






liuie cold water. 



serriTisr : 



: =rr .izrll ci::e 5~^:I>l; add to itgradn- 

is of boiiiag 

- ve before 

itter the 

o with some 

" noting. 

r . _r i _: 1^ :  r : o^mces 

(or ssse ci saxaSi egg) ; mdt, an : : : r : : niuls 

of floor. When babbfii^ np ad \ i 

pints ofhrothyStnnngimtil qoitf J 

of minced peoslej and xie ^g : T T : : r^_ .s 

of duck cxeani. Salt to taste. 

To ths soap as wdl as to diose foflowin^ joo can make ad- 
ditians of canMower, green peas, a^joiagos, if the j happen to 
be ^T*"^. or w katgiei ' el??' 's-?^ see fit. Reajer^ber slso the 
r: -~ ~tz:_:zti isd sppHj i-ie~ : t : r 

--- s : -^._T 

V ^ :jtfa,ai: 

ooe v: ; : rson (two wfll do : : rr t: v i: 

dilt to taste. 



n 



fice; cookge: 
-. bailejgia: 



1 up) for about 

ill the water, 

T- toit; let 



LETTER T 2B 

come to a boO, and serre orer one or tvo i^ggs beatioi 19 
with cream or milk. 

Barlej Soap "So 2  " ' ^ - r-fiaiiied bariey; do 

as before, leairiDg lira* the boilej is 

aboiat half done a ish cxxrikcag; it 

until quite sof - egg and 

cream, and ser : - / - -- _: -- -sead baHs^ 

of nhidi later. 

All these soc" it i;:^- :-t t:: e Ixodi 

is a fiist-rate on r 

Rjee4loor So^-. T;>r :-r ::-:r :f :. ;- r: - -.:!e- 

^KXMifiils) ; stir : 

add to it one a ^ : .: 

fjr ten minntes ; - r 

tablespoonfiiils : 7 t : 

or natm^ an ; t: :r . : t. 

pot on tc^ of : ; .It : :_r 

following way :  

Costard for S ; 1; E ,  T;>t r :. ; 

beat well - : - : 1 

jHUch of s 1 : _ : 7 r 7: : . 

earthen b'l . //- . ;;::.- 7 -it. \ : 

water, a:i 1 _ . . : v : /  : . ^ . : . : . r : . . : ; t ' ; ^ _ ; 

longer. Take ont 

taid and cot it intc ; : : ^ i :;: ^ : 1 

floiled knife. 

This costard mi r :^^r_ :: ::.ir: ;:: ri;::._ itz. 

dear and made of T^etabies. 

The above recipe for r: r^ ;: : ; 1 ~7; - " 7 
hare an Engfrdi recipe w.\ . 
costard, flavois the soap wii-i 1 5 - . : : ; : - 
and a squeeze of lemon. 

A very good and showy ? " ' : = : f " r  

Saatp with MoeldPti R: r  H :e?f brofih, 

amber-cok^red and clear. 7 t tl and 

scalded, six ounces ; : : : ac 

quart of boiling bioth, . i:er 



26 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

will do also) ; see that the liquid is salted exactly right ; boil 
covered up for half an hour ; then set uncovered in a hot place 
until all the liquid left is evaporated, when you empty the rice 
into a deep mould. Press it down to have it take the shape of 
the mould. Set it in a moderately warm place for a while, and 
when ready to serve turn the rice out of the mould on a hot 
plate. Dust all over it some grated Parmesan cheese. Or 
have the cheese handed around separately, and pour over the 
rice some melted crayfish butter, garnishing its base or not with 
either shrimps, crayfish tails, buttonhole mushrooms, or forcemeat 
balls, or with all of these. Have the rice handed around with 
each plate of broth from the tureen. It is rice enough for six 
persons. 

The scarlet-colored butter made of crayfish or sweet water 
crab, comes handy in tiny tin boxes. Although an expensive 
article, a small quantity will go very far both to color and to 
flavor ; and put away in a cool place this butter will keep, after 
the box has been opened, for weeks. The crayfish tails are 
also imported, ready for use, in small glass jars. 

I will give you only one more recipe of this kind of soups,  
a vermicelli soup, to which we gave the name :  

Potage aux Voyageurs (Travellers' Soup).^  Take either 
chicken or veal broth ; cook vermicelli in it, of the thick 
kind, until soft, but not so that it falls to pieces. When done 
beat up one or more yolks of egg in half a cupful of cream ; 
add to the soup with a squeeze of lemon juice, and serve 
with grated Parmesan cheese. If you take a tablespoonful of 
sour instead of sweet cream, you will not need the lemon 
juice. 

Before I proceed I will make you acquainted with some 
accessories to soups, which are apt to improve especially the 
Accessories vegetable soups, and often are the most nutri- 

to soups. tjQ^jg p^j-ts of them. 

Since you will need bread for nearly all of the following 
recipes, I remind you that to be economical every piece and 

1 See Bayard Taylor's " Travels in Greece," p. 218. 



LETTER IV 27 

chip of bread has to be saved, and kept for future use in a 
clean jar or box. The shoes can be cut into any shape required, 
whilst the odds and ends after accumulation are to be put on 
the back of the stove or range to get perfectly dry, which makes 
them fit to be rolled into fine crumbs, by means of the rolling- 
pin. They ought to be kept in a covered glass or porcelain 
jar until needed. Just now we want some thick slices of stale 
bread to add  let us say  to a green pea soup. 

Golden Dice.  Cut bread into large dice ; beat up one egg 
in a few tablespoonfuls of milk, to which add a bit of salt ; soak 
the bread in it for half an hour, then fry it until of a fine yellow 
in hot lard. Skim out of the lard on a piece of brown paper 
placed on a colander. 

Cheese Crusts {croutons).  Cut some thin slices of bread 
into round or oval shaped pieces ; dip the upper side into 
melted butter, and cover thickly with grated Parmesan or 
Swiss cheese ; place these pieces on a sheet iron baking-pan 
or a pie-dish, and put into the oven until of a deep yellow. 
They are handed with the soup. 

I was present at a dinner where the ci-outons were dry-toasted 
on the under side, while on top the bread was spread with fresh 
butter covered with grated cheese. They were handed with a 
Juhenne soup. 

Next we have forcemeat and bread balls. The latter are the 
easiest made, and the more economical additions to soups as 
well as to fricassees, etc. 

Bread Balls.  Take two ounces of butter, and melt it ; add 
four to five tablespoonfuls of fine bread-crumbs, a saltspoonful 
of salt, a httle nutmeg or pepper ; mix, then add one whole 
egg and one yolk ; mix again, and stir until smooth and light. 
Form little balls the size of hickory nuts, and drop them either 
into boiling water salted or the boiling soup. Cover up, and 
allow to boil from ten to fifteen minutes. 

It is always best to try one ball first by cooking it before the 
rest. If it cooks to pieces some more bread-crumbs, if too hard 
a tablespoonful of cream (sour is the best), has to be added. 
This rule holds good with all the recipes for balls and dumplings. 



28 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

Sponge Balls.  Take the whites of two eggs and put them 
into a teacup ; fill it up with milk, and pour the contents into 
a stew-pan ; add one teacupful of flour and one ounce of 
butter (or size of an egg) ; stir well over the fire until the 
batter is thick and smooth ; set it to cool, after which stir into 
it the two yolks, a few pinches of salt, a pinch of mace (if 
liked), and drop into the boiling soup a teaspoonful at a time. 
Cook from eight to ten minutes. 

Marrow Balls.  Take two ounces of beef suet; soak in 
water for one hour to whiten it ; chop fine ; melt it over the 
fire, and strain into a large bowl. When nearly cooled off stir 
it with a spoon until creamy ; drop into it the yolk of an egg 
and, after stirring a while, a whole egg, half a saltspoonful of 
salt, half a teaspoonful of minced onion, and one teaspoonful 
of minced parsley ; at the last add three tablespoonfuls of fine 
bread-crumbs. Form into balls as big as a walnut by means of 
two spoons, which dip into boiling water every now and then. 
Place the balls one beside the other on a flat pie-dish which has 
been buttered previously. When ready to put them into the 
boiling water, or soup, heat the dish. The balls will drop easily 
into the cooking-vessel. Boil gently for about ten to fifteen 
minutes. 

Forcemeat Balls.  Take half a pound of raw veal (or 
chicken) ; mince very fine ; soak two ounces of bread (no 
crust) in milk ; when soft put it in a clean towel and squeeze 
until dry ; add two ounces of butter and the yolks of two eggs, 
pound the whole in a mortar, and force through a fine sieve ; 
season with salt, white pepper, and nutmeg, and form into 
almond-shaped balls by taking a teaspoonful of it, heaped full, at 
a time, shaping it at the top into a point, and smoothing it 
down by means of a knife dipped in water. Cook about ten 
minutes in soup-liquor. 

Ham Dumplings.  Proceed as above, taking raw ham in- 
stead of veal, and season with either minced onion or parsley, 
instead of nutmeg, leaving out the salt. Do not take the 
trouble to force it through a sieve, but stir until smooth and 
light. Form rather large balls  about the size of a small egg  



LETTER IV 29 

and cook for twenty minutes to half an hour. They must be 
as hght as sponge when cut with the spoon, and are very good 
in a soup of clear broth. This is a recipe from Bavaria, south- 
ern Germany. 

To-day's lesson having been long enough, I will stop here 
to continue in my next letter the chapter on soups. 



LETTER V 

They are very different thoughts born within man well nourished and 
man miserable and hungry. Dr. J. N. von Nussbaum. 

YOU are right, my teachings are tinctured to some extent 
by what I learned during the years I spent in Germany. I 
there became acquainted with the thrifty spirit of the better 
classes of the people, and with their ways of making a great deal 
out of a very little. The French in this respect do the same. 
Give them poor materials, and they will set before you a dainty 
meal. We, who have the best of everything, ought to do 
equally well, if not better. 

Of a great number of recipes for vegetable soups which 

I have at my command, I will select some typical ones, 

leaving it to you to vary and improve on them. 

Vegetable soups. ^  / ,,..' 

roT you understand that it is not my inten- 
tion to write for you a regular cook-book. After you become 
familiar with the spirit of the art of cookery, you will continue 
 after the beginning you have made  to teach yourself far 
better than any one else could do it. 

Julienne Soup.  Take one carrot, a quarter of a white 
turnip, a quarter of a celery-root, half a parsnip, one small leek, 
about four leaves of a head of lettuce, and a quarter of the 
tender inside of a head of Savoy cabbage. Cut all this in nar- 
row strips, about two inches long, stew for half an hour in one 
ounce of butter ; but see that it does not get brown or stick to 
the vessel. Then add one quart of good, clear broth and boil 
the vegetables in it gently for one hour. According to the 
season, you may add to the foregoing vegetables some heads 
of asparagus, tender green peas, and string beans, cooked sepa- 
rately. Observe that this soup, after adding the broth to the 
30 



LETTER V 31 

vegetables done in butter, has to boil very gently to prevent 
the broth from getting cloudy. Serve with this soup some 
browned bread, or, if preferred, serve it over some boiled rice. 
A heaped tablespoonful of the latter will be sufficient for the 
above quantity of soup. 

There is a general behef that herbs eaten in springtime are 
especially wholesome. The following recipe, taking this into 
account, is termed :  

Easter Soup.  Gather the young sprouts and leaves of wild 
herbs when their first shoots appear, such as dandelion, sheep- 
sorrel, yarrow, nettle, lady's-mantle {^Alchemilla vulgaris) ^ 
strawberry leaves, etc. Take a handful of each ; rinse repeat- 
edly in cold water and drain in a colander. Do not squeeze 
them, lest you lose some of their juices. Chop fine ; put into 
some good broth, and boil gently for about half an hour. Mix 
butter the size of a walnut with a teaspoonful of flour and drop 
it into half a cup of boihng cream or milk. When cooking has 
dissolved it, add it to the soup. Serve with poached eggs on 
top, or the custard the recipe of which I gave you in my 
last. 

Carrot Soup.  Take two large carrots, one small turnip, 
half a celery root, one leek ; boil in water which has been 
salted, adding butter the size of half an Qgg. When soft, drain 
and work through a sieve with a potato-masher. Add this pulp 
to the soup-liquor. 

This soup is improved by an addition of rice. The latter in 
combination with Savoy cabbage is excellent if the whitish part 
of the inside head only is taken, and cut into fine shreds. 

Asparagus Soup.  Take half a pound of fresh asparagus, 
cut off the heads, and boil separately in salted water until done, 
which will be in about fifteen minutes. Cut the rest into small 
pieces, throw them into boiling broth (which need not be of 
the best) and cook gently for . one hour. Then pass through 
a fine colander ; put it back on the fire to boil up. Add the 
asparagus heads, and the yolks of one or two eggs beaten up in 
half a cup of cream. 

Green Pea Soup.  Take half a pint of large green peas, and 



32 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

a handful of both spinach leaves and parsley (which serve as 
coloring-matter). Cook the whole in some weak broth until 
quite soft ; rub through a fine colander ; put back on the fire, 
and let it come to a boil ; add a piece of butter the size of a 
walnut, and .a handful of small green peas cooked separately. 
Some roses of cauliflower may be added ; or some of the little 
balls I gave you the recipes for. 

An Italian soup, called Risi-pisi, consists of green peas 
pulped through a sieve and mixed with boiled rice. 

Corn Soup.  Take a couple of ears of corn ; grate off the 
top skin of the grains all around them and by means of a tin 
spoon scoop out the milk and what is left of the grains. Stir 
the pulp thus obtained into boiling broth, and allow it to cook 
about an hour. Add a small lump of butter rolled in flour, and 
half a cup of cream or milk. 

Some tomato, either fresh or left over from a previous meal, 
is a good addition to corn soup. To make it still better, take 
Tomato,.com. l^ss of the com, and add half a dozen okra pods 
and okra for soup. sUccd thiu. Lcave off the flour, and take of 
cream but one teaspoon, mixed with the yellow of an egg. 

A tomato soup without any accessories but milk, butter, salt, 
pepper, and cracker-crumbs is a very simple affair, and very 
good, indeed, but I would class it rather with the water soups. 
Tomato soup with rice is excellent when milk is left out, and a 
good broth is used instead of water. 

The following I consider a very good recipe :  

Tomato Soup.  Take about ten tomatoes ; cut them in 
pieces ; cook them with a quarter of a pound of ham, one 
onion in which stick a clove, a sprig of parsley, two pepper- 
corns, half a bay leaf (no salt on account of the ham) ; after 
half an hour drop into it butter size of a walnut mixed with a 
heaped teaspoonful of flour; allow to dissolve while boiling, 
and rub through a wire sieve. Salt to taste. Add to a broth 
in which two or three teaspoonfuls of either very fine vermi- 
celli or starlets of vermicelli have been cooked. 

Tomato and okra seem to have been specially designed by 
nature to complement each other, the acid liquid of the one 



LETTER V 33 

being in accordance with the glutinous and grassy insipidity of 
the other. In the Southern States people found Tomato and 
this out long ago, and the result has been the oi^acomjned. 
gumbo soup. There are a great many varieties of recipes for 
this soup, most of them of an extravagant character. Okra 
grows readily in our gardens North, and makes a first-rate soup 
in combination with a "Julienne," an addition of tomato, and 
a bunch of thyme, sweet marjoram, and parsley, the bunch be- 
ing removed before serving the soup. The following is a 
Georgia recipe for a plain 

Gumbo Soup.  Take fresh tomatoes and okra in equal quan- 
tities, slice them ; cook gently in some beef liquor for several 
hours ; season to taste. Boil rice separately, and serve with the 
soup. 

Black Bean Soup.  Soak over night one teacupful of black 
Mexican beans. Next day put them on to boil in three pints 
of cold water (if the water is hard add a pinch of baking soda, 
which will make it soft), and add any scraps of pork or ham 
you happen to have on hand. Add the salted meat after the 
water is tepid. Be careful in salting this soup. After the beans 
come to a boil add one small onion, and one clove. When 
quite done pulp the beans through a colander fine enough to 
retain the skins. Add more water, or some soup-liquor, if too 
thick. Serve over one or two hard-boiled eggs cut in quarters, 
and half a lemon sliced. If liked, add a tablespoonful of sherry 
at the last moment. 

The taste of this soup very much resembles that made of turtle. 

We have got now as far as the bean, pea, and lentil soups 
 all three of them very nourishing. You may use for them 
either broth or water, just as your judgment leads soups made 
you to do. If broth, scraps of meat left over, or o^p^'^e- 
a ham bone, will be sufficient for it ; but water avIU serve as 
well. It seems to me, therefore, that I might introduce the 
water soups here rather then later, since the best- , 

' . Water soups. 

tastmg of them are made ot vegetables. To begui 

with I have to give you two different recipes for an excellent 

foundation of a water soup. 



34 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

Imitation Broth No. i.  Take one pint of dried peas ; pick 
out the bad ones and wash ; put them to boil with three pints 
Foundation for of Water, and a saltspoonful of salt. When quite 
water soups. gQ^^^ p^^jp thej-Q through a colander. Use this 

liquid at discretion for the foundation of soups. 

Imitation Broth No. 2.  Cook peas as above and strain 
them before they get soft, or rather as soon as the water turns 
yellow. Add to the latter such vegetables as carrot, turnip, 
onion, celery root, after they have been sUced and browned in 
a tablespoonful of butter, or fat. Add salt, and allow fully an 
hour to boil. If Hked, a " bouquet," or bunch of thyme and 
parsley, some pepper seeds, and a small bay leaf may be added 
with the vegetables. The strained peas may be used up in some 
other way. 

Another flavoring is obtained by adding the shavings and 
fibrous parts of asparagus. They ought, therefore, to be saved 
at the right season, dried, and put away carefully in the store 
closet. 

Recipe No. i I found in a German cook-book, " The 
Perfect Lenten Fare," written by a " cook for many years " in 
a Catholic vicarage. She says this pea broth is the foundation 
for all lenten soups. 

To make soup without meat, of either dried peas, beans, 

or lentils you wash them first, then soak them over night, and 

put them on the stove at an early hour, with 

How to make /- , i ,-r^ i i i i 

a good soup plenty of cold water. (Remember that hard water, 

^^ ^^" for cooking purposes, has to be made soft by 

adding a pinch of baking soda.) Do not let them get dry, 
but replenish the water if not sufficient. Pulse takes from 
two to three hours to get thoroughly done. To raise it to 
the proper standard of nourishment, the addition of fat is 
needed. Pork drippings are the best for this purpose. Both 
pea and lentil soups are improved by adding an hour before 
meal-time some soup-vegetables, sliced and browned in fat. 
If the soup, after being rubbed through a colander, lacks con- 
sistency, a little flour mixed with butter may be added to 
thicken it. The lentil soup is improved by some lemon juice 



LETTER V 35 

or vinegar, which by softening the cellulose, or woody particles 
of this highly nourishing vegetable, helps the digestive powers 
to perform the heavy task imposed upon them by it. 

Bean soup does not need the additional vegetables. If 
liked, a small onion and a slice of bacon cut in little dice may 
be fried crisp in a hot pan, and added to the soup after it has 
been rubbed through the colander. 

All three soups are improved by serving them over bits of 
bread fried crisp in butter or fat. A sausage cooked, skinned, 
and cut into thick slices is also a pleasant addition. 

In contrast to the above vegetables potatoes have but little 
alimentary value. Still, a soup made of them is often con- 
venient, and palatable. 

Potato Soup.  Take either cooked potatoes left over, and 
grate them, or peel, slice, and cook raw potatoes in salted 
water until quite soft. Add to the water a little bunch of 
sweet marjoram, an onion, and a small celery root. If grated 
potatoes are used which have been cooked before, stir them 
into the boiling liquid at the very last, and allow to boil up 
once or twice. For this sort of soup, imitation broth No. 2 is 
in order. The soup made of raw potatoes has to be rubbed 
through a colander. Add minced parsley to it, if sweet mar- 
joram is not liked. One or two eggs beaten up in some milk 
or cream will greatly improve the nourishing quality of a 
potato soup. 

By a simple process easily divined, a good many of the 
recipes for soups I have given you can be turned into water 
soups. Therefore, I will only add two more recipes. 

A Green Soup.  Take one handful of garden sorrel and one 
of spinach  the stripped leaves only. Wash them well ; 
chop them, but not too fine, with a sprig of parsley and a few 
lettuce leaves ; toss them over the fire in hot butter the size of 
half an egg ; then add one quart of boiling water, salt, a slice 
of stale bread, one onion, one clove, and (if convenient) a 
couple of pistachio nuts peeled and cut into shreds. Allow all 
this to boil gently for one hour, and no longer. Then rub the 
whole through a sieve, and add two eggs with some cream. 



36 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

Serve either over some browned bread or some of the little 
bread balls mentioned before. Or leave away the latter as 
well as the egg, and serve the egg custard with this soup. 

Pea-pod Soup.  Put to boil three pints of water ; fill the 
kettle up to the water's edge with the well-washed pods of 
fresh peas after the latter have been removed ; add one table- 
spoonful of drippings, some salt, and a few pepper seeds ; also 
some thyme, parsley, and celery leaves. Cook until the pods 
are quite soft, when strain off the liquid into another pot, and 
pound the pods in a mortar to a pulp. Now put the latter 
back into the sieve and rub through into the liquid. Heat up 
again, and add either some of the peas cooked separately or 
some young carrots sliced and cooked beforehand ; or serve 
over browned bread, etc., according to your own judgment. 

The lesson of economy this soup teaches is evident. 

We have come at last to the soups I have enumerated as 

those of the third kind. They are made chiefly of meat hashed 

very fine, and are e^enerallv called by the French 

Soups made / i '' 

of chopped term puree. There are a great many varieties. 

If you mean to be economical, you will use for 
them remnants of meat. Trim it off the bones carefully, 
remove all fat and sinew, and chop it as fine as possible. The 
bones, of course, you will crack and add to the kettle in which 
the broth is simmering. Take the minced meat, toss it a few 
times over the fire in a little very hot butter. This is the thick- 
ening for your soup, which you may serve either white or 
brown, according to the meat you use. If white, you take half 
a cup of cream or milk ; drop into it, when boihng, butter and 
flour rubbed into a ball; cook it until dissolved and smooth; 
then add the yolks of one or two eggs, beaten up. Put the 
hashed meat into the tureen first, then the whitening with the 
egg, and at last the broth, being careful to mix the whole grad- 
ually and thoroughly. Minced parsley may be added. If the 
soup is to be brown, take butter and flour of equal quantity, 
mix it in a very hot iron pan, and continue stirring over the fire 
until evenlv brown. Add enousfh of the broth  a little at a 
time, and stirring well  to make a thick brown batter ; add 



LETTER V 37 

this to the broth for your soup, let it boil up a few times, see- 
ing that it is smooth, then add your minced meat, and serve. 
With the white as well as the brown soup, an addition of either 
forcemeat, bread, or egg balls is in place. 

The above gives you the generahzation of this kind of very 
nourishing soups, to which I will add some special recipes. I 
begin with a soup which " Mademoiselle Frangoise" (the pseu- 
donym of a lady known in French society) invented for her 
frequent guest, Offenbach, the composer, after his years and 
labors began to tell on his health. 

Raw Meat Soup.  Take a good beef broth ; boil in it some 
pearl sago ; when done, add the yolk of an egg mixed w^ith a 
tablespoonful of tepid broth and a little grated Parmesan cheese. 
At the very last, when already in the tureen, add, while stirring 
carefully, some raw beef free of all fat and sinew, which previ- 
ously has been chopped very fine. 

The most delicate of this kind of soups is the chicken pureey 
which goes by the name of soupe a la reine. Of the different 
recipes I know of, I select the following as being, in my opinion, 
the best, and at the same time the most practical one. 

Chicken Puree Soup (or Soupe a la Reine).  Boil an old 
hen in two quarts of water with a saltspoonful of salt, the usual 
vegetables, one bay leaf and about six white pepperseeds. 
When the meat is quite tender, take it off the bones, remove 
the skin and tendons ; chop it first very fine, then pound it to 
a pulp in a mortar with a httle butter and six blanched almonds.^ 
Meanwhile set on to boil three ounces of Carolina rice in the 
chicken liquor, freed of fat. When the rice is thoroughly soft, 
which will be in about an hour, mix with it the chicken pulp, and 
rub the whole through a wire sieve. This soup must have the 
consistency of thick cream. If too thick, add some handy soup 
liquor, or water, or milk. You may also add some yolk of egg^ 
but it would change the color, which ought to be white. If 
you wish this soup to be particularly nice, take merely the 
white meat for the thickening, separating it from the dark 

1 See p. 207. 



38 LETITRS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

meat, and using the latter for some forcemeat balls. The above 
is sufficient for from six to eight persons. 

Game Puree Soup.  Take the bones and meat of any cooked 
game ; also the heads, necks, and giblets of the same ; stew in 
plenty of water, with a thin slice of fat bacon, an onion, half a 
small carrot, one bay leaf, and a few black pepper seeds. When 
quite soft remove the meat to a chopping-bowl and allow the 
rest to stew a while longer. Chop the meat, then pound it to a 
pulp in a mortar. Brown a scant tablespoonful of flour in but- 
ter the size of a walnut ; add it to the liquor which you strain 
off the bones, then add the pounded meat, and as much more 
broth (or water) necessary to give to your soup the proper con- 
sistency. Rub the w^-hole through a wire sieve and serve over 
browned slices of bread. 

Sweetbread Soup.  Blanch and skin one sweetbread.^ Melt 
a piece of butter the size of a walnut, and when hot put into 
it the sweetbread with a pinch of salt, and one small onion, 
whole. Cover it up, and simmer over a slow fire until tender, 
which will be in about fifteen minutes. Then take out the 
sweetbread, and cut it into small dice. Remove the onion, 
and stir into the hot butter one tablespoonful of flour. When 
well mixed add some hght-colored broth,  either chicken or 
veal ; let it boil for several minutes, stirring all the while to 
prevent its getting lumpy. Add the sweetbread, and last of all 
the yolk of an egg beaten up in a few tablespoonfuls of cream. 

If you leave out the onion, this is a first-rate soup for an 
So^Jpfor invalid. The next one, although very good, I 

an invalid. would not rccommcnd for this purpose, owing 

to the large percentage of fatty substance contained in the 
brain. 

Calf's Brain Soup.  Soak a calf's brain for fifteen minutes 
in tepid water ; then pull off the skin ; heat butter the size of a 
walnut in a frying-pan ; put in it the brain, and stir it with a 
spoon until like mush ; dust over it some flour, and allow it to 
simmer, stirring all the time, for about five minutes longer. 

1 See p. 72. 



LETTER V 39 

Thin it with broth, rub it through a fine sieve, and put it back 
on the fire to boil up. Add some egg and cream, and serve 
over pieces of bread which have been fried crisp. 

To conclude this matter of soups, I want to give you for your 
edification  play after work  a sample of what our fore- 
fathers considered a fine bruce (broth) or soup. An English 
manuscript of the XV. century has the following :  

Take the intestines of a pig, and boil them gently ; cut them 
into bits, and put them in a pot with some good broth ; then 
take some white leek, peel it, and cut it into 

 XT <.!, u 1  '^'^ '^ recipes. 

small pieces. Now with some chopped onions 
add it to the former, and set on to boil the whole. Dip bread 
in some broth, and make it tasty with blood and vinegar ; put 
it into a pot, allow it to boil up with pepper and cloves, and 
send the whole to the table. With it was served an entire 
pig's head. 

Another recipe says : Take powdered rice and cook with 
milk of almond until thick ; take also gizzards of capons or 
hens, pound them in a mortar, mix w^ith the former, put the 
whole into a pot, adding powdered cinnamon and cloves ; and 
dust some sandalwood over the whole. 

Might this be the progenitor of our chicken puree soup ? I 
leave it for you to solve. 



LETTER VI 



Too little can always take more, 
But too much can never restore. 

What say you to a piece of beef and mustard ? 

 Shakespeare. 

YOU ask me for a rule in salting. This is slightly embarrassing, 
for there is really no rule to rely upon. Salt is a mineral 
(chloride of sodium) which exists in all animal substances as 
well as in all vesjetable matters. But it does not 

Difficulties in . ,  . . _,, 

regard to the cntcr mto them m equal proportions. There- 
mg 00 . |-^^^ ^^^g kind of food needs more, another less 
salt added in cooking. Fat meat, for instance, has to be salted 
more than lean meat ; and of all kinds of meat, venison and 
other game has to be salted most sparingly on account of the 
larger percentage of salt contained in the flesh already. Of the 
vegetables, all grains and those rich in starch possess very httle 
salt, while spinach, for instance, has 0.6 per cent, beans have 
0.4, and figs 0.8 per cent of salt. 

Another difficulty in giving rules about salting is the differ- 
ence in the salt we buy. It is either good, i.e. pure salt, or 
bad, which means adulterated. The latter, of course, does not 
The qualities scR^c its fuU purposc. Good Salt must bc of a 
of pure salt. p^j.^ sparkling white ; its taste must not be bitter ; 

it must not be moist, nor pack into lumps ; it must dissolve in 
water without any visible sediment, for which trial you take one 
part of salt to three of water. Salt, if adulterated, is mostly 
mixed with gypsum (sulphate of lime), which, when added in 
quantities above five per cent changes the appearance of the 
salt to a dull white. If you dissolve this salt in water, the 
latter will remain cloudy. It is more easily tested when 
coarse, than when fine. 
40 



LETTER VI 41 

It is safe in all cases to salt but slightly at first. More can 
be easily added if necessary, while an overdose of salt is diffi- 
cult and often impossible to remedy. Any kind of food if 
salted too much is spoiled. Not only is it unpleasant to the 
taste, but it also has lost its wholesome properties. For scald- 
ing vegetables or boiling macaroni you may safely take a scant 
tablespoonful of salt to every quart of water ; but in most other 
cases your taste has to judge how much or how Uttle salt a dish 
of food needs. 

Aside from making food palatable, salt helps to digest it on 
account of its dissolvent property. It assists especially to 
hquefy fatty and albuminous substances, which sait assists 
then are more readily absorbed by the system, digestion. 
It is also well to know that salted water requires a higher tem- 
perature to reach the boiling-point. Thus it is a saitwiii raise 
means, by increase of heat, to render any tough- t^^^lTth^^' 
ness of fibre softer and tenderer. boiiing-point 

Salt, therefore, is the one seasoning cookery cannot spare. 
This accounts for the value attached to it in all ages, and by all 
nations. Aborigines have gone to war for it. 

TT  r  1 T  1 11 High value 

Homer smgs of it as the divme, the noblest of of salt in 
flavors ; and in England, during the Middle* Ages, p^^^^^^- 
the salt-cellar was a standard of rank. It stood in the centre 
of the table, and a gentleman sitting at the upper half thought 
himself too good to drink to one sitting at the same table 
*' below the salt." A meal without salt  who would relish 
it? The best, however, of all dinners is the one where the 
"Attic salt" is not lacking either. 

You have noticed that in all my recipes for broth and soups 
spice is used but sparingly. I mean by it, especially the exotic 
spices, the immoderate use of which is hurtful, jhe use and 
while a little of it, and of the right sort, im- value of spices, 
proves the flavor of a dish, and, like salt, helps digestion by 
promoting the secretion of the gastric juice. Therefore, a weak 
digestion is often benefited by the addition to food of pepper, 
allspice, cloves, ginger, nutmeg, cinnamon, etc.  each where 
it belongs, and in small quantities ; while spice in excess will 



42 LEITERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

always work harm in the long run by irritating the mucous mem- 
Too much spice brane, oftentimes causing malignant dyspepsia, 
is hurtful. Besides, the art of cooking goes begging as soon 

as you overcharge your soups, gravies, etc., with spice. It 
makes all food taste alike in destroying the particular flavor of 
each kind. In following, for instance, most of the English 
recipes for soups, you will have generally a taste of something 
hot burning your palate and stomach alike ; but you are hardly 
able to distinguish any other ingredients except an overdose of 
spice. 

I would warn you not to buy your spice, nor your herbs, in 
a powder. Buy them whole, and highest priced, to get them 
Buy spices and purc. They will be the cheapest in the end. 
herbs whole. jf j^gp^ {^i tight-fitting boxcs, and ground in a 

spice- mill when needed, spices will always have their fresh aro- 
matic properties, and serve their purpose well. 

Herbs, like thyme, sage, sweet marjoram, etc., I buy in 
market when fresh from the ground. After rinsing them well, 
How to pre- ^.nd rcmoving what is imperfect, I dry them with 

serve herbs. ^ clcan towcl, and hang them up in a dry place, 

stems upward, and surrounded by a clean sheet of paper, which 
is left open below. The latter prevents the dust settling on 
them. When they are quite dry I tie the paper up all around, 
only to be opened when a sprig is needed. 

With parsley and celery leaves I do differently. I dry them 
in a cool oven, and then rub them to a powder. In order to 
remove the stems remaining, I sift the latter through a fine 
wire sieve. It is quite economical to provide for parsley in this 
way as long as cheap. It is also very convenient to have it at 
hand in the shape of a powder, instead of having to mince it, 
although the dry article is not equal to the fresh in flavor. 

Of lemons and oranges, when the juice is used for cooking, 
I cut off the peel with a sharp knife, quite thin, to be put in 
^ , , corked bottles  each kind by itself  with some 

How to keep -' 

lemon and good brandy. More peel may be added at any 

time. This makes a pleasant flavoring for fruit 

sauces, puddings, and other desserts. In peeling be careful 



LETTER VI 43 

not to cut off any of the white underlying the outer yellow. 
It is of a bitter taste, and, in addition, prevents the aromatic 
oil of the peel from yielding its aroma. The juice of a sour 
orange is often preferable to lemon juice for cooking purposes. 
It imparts a most delicate flavor even to sauces accompanying 
dishes of meat or vegetables. 

You are anxious, however, to have me tell you about meat 
 the staple article of food whenever the question of good 
nourishment is concerned. Of all meat, beef is ^ ^ 

' (trades of 

the highest in order. Next to it come venison nourishment 
and pigeon, especially squab, which is invaluable 
for the sick and persons of weak digestive power. But, to 
give you a clear estimate of the different grades of nutritives 
in meats, it will be necessary to figure them out in percentages. 
The following tables will shov/ you that the fatter the meat is 
the more its large percentage of water is reduced and replaced 
by substance. 

Water. Albuminoids. Fats. Mineral Matters. 

Lean beef 76.5 21.0 1.5 i.o 

Middling fat beef 72.5 21.0 5.5 i.o 

Very fat beef 55.5 17.0 26.5 1.0 

Lean veal 78.0 20.0 1.0 1.0 

Fat veal 72.5 19.0 7.5 1.0 

Middling fat mutton 76.0 17.0 6.0 1.0 

Fat mutton 48.0 15.0 36.0 1.0 

Lean pork 72.0 20.0 7.0 1.0 

Fat pork 47.0 14.5 37.5 1.0 

Chicken middling fat 75.0 20.0 4.0 1.0 

Venison 75.5 22.5 1.0 1.0 

I have demonstrated to you that meat when used for the 
purpose of making broth or soup has to be treated so as to ex- 
tract its juices, leavinar the fibre as refuse. The ^, . . 

' ' *-" The juices of 

opposite treatment is necessary for all meats which meat must 

, , be kept intact. 

are to serve as roasts, steaks, cutlets, stews, etc. 
With these the utmost care has to be taken that none of the 
juices leak out of the meat. They must be kept intact. If 
not, so much of the nourishment contained in the meat as will 
escape is waste material and loss to the individual to be fed. 



44 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

In order to show you how to proceed I will begin with a broiled 
beefsteak :  

Get a porterhouse steak an inch thick of about one to one 
and a half pounds. If of a well-fed ox, it contains more 
nourishment in proportion than a lower-priced 
abrefsteak piccc of thc samc wcight. See that your fire is 
strS'rflthe"'""* bright and clear of smoke. Have your gridiron 
principle of the ]^q^ Pour a little of thc best olive oil into a cup, 

art of cooking _ '^ ' 

meat nneant take a long-haircd brush kept for such purposes 

only, dip it into the oil, and grease with it gridiron 
and steak. Have the dish hot in which to serve the latter, and 
place on it a piece of fresh butter the size of a walnut. Put your 
gridiron and meat on the fire, not so near as to burn it, and yet 
near enough for the meat to become seared over and browned in 
two or three minutes. Then turn it and allow the other side to 
get brown as quickly. In this way the albumen on the outside 
of the meat, by coming in contact with the heat, coagulates, 
and furnishes a crust through which the meat-juice cannot 
escape ; it stays inside, and thus is kept intact. Place the 
steak on the dish ready to receive it ; put some salt on the 
upper side, and a sprinkle of pepper if preferred ; then turn 
this side downward to come in contact with the butter ; turn it 
back again and serve it at once. With this recipe you have the 
principle to apply to all meats meant for food. 

The roast is managed in the same way. Take a rib piece. 
Have the butcher cut it as short as he is willing to do. Or 
How to have him take the bones out (which you use for 

roast beef. soup) and roU it up, fastening it tight with twine. 

Do not use skewers ; they make unsightly holes, and allow the 
juice to escape. Have your oven thoroughly hot. Put a tea- 
spoonful of butter, or as much suet dripping, into your meat- 
pan, and when melted and very hot, put in your roast, and 
place in the oven. Brown it on all sides as rapidly as possible 
to form that impenetrable thin crust, inside of which the par- 
ticles of water contained in the meat will develop into steam. 
This in its turn permeates the meat-fibre, softens the muscle, 
and cooks the meat in its own juices. As soon as this crust is 



LETTER VI 45 

formed the heat of the oven has to be slackened. To prevent 
the outside from burning or drying up, a little melted butter has 
to be kept in readiness with which to baste the meat from time 
to time. It takes fifteen minutes for every pound of beef to 
have the roast done rare. A quarter of an hour before it is 
done sprinkle with salt. Do not do it earlier ; for salt, being a 
dissolvent, softens the outside and extracts the juices. When 
the roast is done put it on a hot dish, clear the pan of fat, add 
a little boiling water or beef broth (one saltspoonful of Liebig's 
extract dissolved is an excellent addition) and a little salt ; let 
it boil up while loosening with a spoon the brown deposit at- 
tached to the bottom and sides of the pan. Take care not to 
dilute it too much. Strain through a fine wire sieve, and serve 
this gravy with the meat. If you should prefer your roast 
without any other gravy than the juice running out in carving  
which is the very best you could have  the made gravy can be 
kept over and used afterward in various ways, as, for instance, 
in hash or soup. I have purposely given you the recipe for 
roasting in the oven, and not on the spit before the fire. Al- 
though the latter is decidedly the best, the former can produce 
as good and nourishing a roast, if strictly done in the above 
way. It is the easiest way for young housekeepers who cannot 
afford to keep an experienced cook. 

Be sure never to stick a fork into any kind of meat which is 
to appear on the table. By making holes for the juices to leak 
out, the nourishing properties of the meat will be  ,. . 

' oil Precaution in 

reduced. I keep a pair of meat tongs in my the handling 
kitchen for handling and turning steaks and cut- 
lets. For turning or lifting larger pieces of meat take two 
wooden ladles. 

If for any reason you wish to use a lower-priced or indiffer- 
ent piece of meat, you will do best to stew or braise it, observ- 
ing the same principles as before. Use for it a How to stew 
stewing-pot with a tight-fitting hd. Brown the o^ braise meat. 
meat first on all sides in hot butter or fat. The highest 
temperature of fat is three times as hot as boiling water. 
The latter (or boihng broth) being added after the meat is 



46 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

browned will lower the heat in which the meat cooks consider- 
ablv, which is necessary to steam the inside of the meat until 
tender. After adding the liquid allow it to boil up a few times ; 
then secure the lid of the cooking-vessel as tightly as possible 
and remove the latter to a place where the temperature is kept 
somewhat below the point of boiling  where the contents will 
merely simmer. If allowed actually to boil, the juices inside 
the meat will dry up and the meat will be tough. From the 
time your meat begins to simmer, it will take from half an 
hour to one hour for each pound to get tender. A small piece 
will get done relatively sooner than a large piece. I will give 
you here a recipe of Mile. Frangoise's for braised beef. 

Take four slices of fat bacon ; brown them slightly in an 
iron pot ; remove them, and brown in the fat remaining a 
Recipe for piccc of becf (about four pounds of the round) 

braised beef. q^ ^j| sidcs. Then take the bacon, place two of 
the slices underneath and two above the beef. Have in readi- 
ness one tablespoonful of chopped mushrooms, one teaspoon- 
ful each of minced onion, parsley, chervil, and sweet basil ; 
moisten all this with either a wineglassful of cooking sherry or 
a small cupful of broth. Add the whole to the meat, cover it 
up tightly, and let it simmer very slowly for from four to five 
hours. Be sparing with the salt on account of the salted pork. 
The liquid remaining in the pot, after the meat is taken out, 
will make a sauce to be served with it by adding some browned 
flour or roux, and some whole mushrooms, after the sauce has 
been passed through a wire sieve. 

I have given you these three recipes to show the principal 
methods to be followed in cooking meats. Keep in your mind 
the law laid down in them and apply it to all other kinds of meat. 

The time, however, which is required for cooking the differ- 
ent meats is not the same for all. Mutton has to be cooked 
. . more than beef ; roast it fully twenty minutes for 

Time required ^ ' ' 

for roasting cach pound, and five minutes more each pound 

of meat be- for a large leg of mutton. Veal and pork must be 

" ^^ ' well done to be wholesome ; you may safely take 

half an hour for each pound, but twenty-five minutes only when 



LETTER VI 47 

your roast is a loin. Chicken and turkey require twenty min- 
utes each pound, but spring chickens are done in fifteen min- 
utes, and so are all small birds. Pigeons and partridges require 
half an hour, prairie chickens three-quarters of an hour. 

I now return to the beef, than which for nourishment, if 
properly treated, there is nothing better. The rib piece, by 
which I demonstrated to you the principle at the ^ 

' ' ^ KespecTive 

base of roasting:, is surpassed in succulence by the vaiueof differ- 

, \,. 11- -1 ent cuts of beef. 

sirloin and the filet, or tenderlom  respectively 
the outer and inner parts of the loin. The filet, bare of all 
bone, by itself, is sold disproportionately high in price in the 
large cities, and therefore is not recommendable for small 
households like yours and mine. But, after all, you might 
some day have occasion for a filet-roast, and will then be glad 
to have the following recipe for filet of beef a la jardiniere. 
For this piece of meat, eight minutes' cooking for p^^. ^ ^^^ 
each pound is sufficient, if meant to be rare: fiietofbeef 

, . . 1 1 -n, 11^'^ jardiniere. 

Otherwise ten minutes each pound. Remove both 
fat and skin  the latter very carefully, with a sharp-pointed 
knife, so as not to cut into the flesh. Lard it on top as closely 
as possible in several rows. Have a dripping-pan hot, melt in 
it some butter  apiece the size of an egg for every two 
pounds. When right hot put in your filet and brown it rapidly 
on all sides. Then continue to roast with moderate heat. 
Baste frequently with the butter in the pan. Sprinkle with 
some salt when in the oven half an hour, and finish basting 
with a cupful of cream. If preferred, a few spoonfuls of beef 
broth can be added to the butter in the pan, instead of basting 
with cream. Take the fat off the gravy, strain it, and serve it 
poured over the filet. Surround the latter with different kinds 
of vegetables, as young carrots, green peas, Brussels sprouts, 
" roses " of cauliflower, chestnuts, mushrooms, etc. Arrange 
them in little bunches, or bouquets, each kind by itself, and if 
tomatoes are in season divide each bouquet by a large stuffed 
tomato. 

It is very likely that you will nave part of the filet left over, 
of which remnant you wish to make the most. This is the 



48 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

Special way in which I use up cold beefsteak or roast beef: 

Scorch a scant tablespoonful of flour in a table- 

JJJfh^rlmnants spoouful of drippings ] add soup liquor sufficient 

of beefsteak ^q make a thick sauce, stirrinsr all the while until 

and roast beef. ' ^ 

smooth ; add salt and pepper, a teaspoonful of 
lemon juice, and as much, or more, of mushroom catsup. 
When ready add the meat, either cut in dice or in thin slices, 
and stir until completely immersed in the sauce ; cover up 
tightly, and set either on a vessel of boiling water, or on a 
place where the meat gets heated through, but does not boil. 
In fifteen minutes it will be ready to serve. Another way is 
this, which is given by Alexandre Dumas, who was never hap- 
pier than when able to don the white apron and cook a meal 
for one or more friends :  

For "beef e7i matelotte^^ peel some small onions and put 
them in a saucepan with some butter ; place them over a slow 
Recipe for beef ^^e uutil of a light browu ; dust over them a table- 
en mateiotte. spoonful of flour, and coutiuuc to cook slowly. 
After the flour is of the same color as the onions, add a glassful 
of claret (or a tablespoonful of orange juice), half as much 
broth, a few mushrooms, some salt, pepper, and a bouquet of 
one bay leaf and a sprig of thyme. Allow the whole to stew 
for a little while, then pour it over slices of cooked beef, and 
place for half an hour where the meat will be kept hot, and be 
saturated with the sauce without boiling. 

In the foregoing you have means to prove the truth of 
what the famous Dr. von Nussbaum  of Munich, Germany  
wrote : " All our thinking and doing is far greater in value 
when we are well nourished, than it is when we are poorly fed 
and not our real selves in consequence." 



LETTER VII 

Is not veal a calf? 
Good pasture makes fat sheep. 



Shakespeare. 



YOU wish to know how much meat for roasts to provide for 
your usual meals as well as for company. Before giving 
you my opinion, I must remind you that there is waste mate- 
rial in what you buy, which tells in weight but vvaste material 
does not count as food. Water is waste material, '" ''' -matters. 
and so are bones. Then, also, meat when cooked weighs less 
than when you bought it ; the loss in weight is different in boil- 
ing and roasting. When boiled, beef loses 15, L33of weight 
mutton and turkey 16, chicken i^^, and ham 6 in boiling 

^ -, , r , I and roasting. 

per cent; when roasted, beef loses 19^, mutton 
24I-, turkey 2o|-, lamb 22I-, duck 27I-, and chicken 14 per cent 
in weight. Considering all this, and that the larger your roast 
the juicier and better it is apt to be, I would advise, for a 
household of three, never to provide less than four pounds for 
roast'ng beef, mutton, and veal, and to take one-half pound 
more for each guest who dines with you. Of steaks, chops, 
and cutlets, as a general rule half a pound is sufficient for each 
person. In case of company for dinner, when you will have 
other courses besides, a large chicken or a capon is sufficient 
for six persons, a turkey for a company of ten to twelve, a 
duck but for three to four persons. The latter reminds me of 
a recipe quoted in C. Monselet's '' Gastronomic." 

It is equally good for a tame or a wild duck, and is called 
*' duck a /a Por/uoraise.'^ Take the heart, dzzard,  . , 

<^ > o 7 Recipe for 

and liver, and mince them with three shallots (a duck a /a 

11  T 1 1 n \  Portugaise. 

small onion if you cannot get the shallots) ; mix 
with a teaspoonful of salt and half as much black pepper; 

49 



50 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

add a piece of table butter size of an egg and mix the whole 
with a silver fork. Then introduce the mixture into the inside 
of the duck, and sew it up at both ends. Take a large napkin, 
fold it in three thicknesses, roll your duck up in it and fasten 
it tightly all over with twine. Put it into boiling water well 
salted, and cover it up. Let it boil for thirty minutes if a tame 
duck, but thirty-five minutes if a wild one. Remove both twine 
and napkin and serve on a hot dish with pieces of lemon for 
a garnish. 

I mention this only by the way ; and since variety is the spice 
of life, you wall not object. Later on I intend saying more of 
poultry, but first I mean to talk to you about the kinds of meat 
on which we depend chiefly for ordinary use. 

Veal is much less nourishing than well-fed beef. It has less 
muscle, about one-third less iron, and is poorer in alkalies. If, 
General r-marks howcvcr, the animal is not too young, and has 
about veal. bccu wcll carcd for, it furnishes the table with a 

variety of food which in the hands of a clever cook may be 
turned into a great many pleasant surprises. La Reyniere, who 
wrote the famous " Almanac des Gourmands," calls the calf 
" the chameleon of the kitchen," on account of the number 
of different dishes into which it can be turned. The ten- 
derest parts of the calf are the loin, with the kidneys attached, 
and the breast. The latter is cheaper than either the loin or 
leg, and therefore an economical piece of meat. It may be 
stuffed and roasted ; or stewed, and served with a white 
sauce ; or made into a delicious " roulade " for slicing when 
cold. In case you have a loin of veal, and you wish to make 
the most of it, you can use the kidneys for a savory breakfast 
dish in the following way : When the roast is 
o/veaI"!/neJs. about half-douc, rcuiovc the kidneys embedded in 
their fat. Mince them with one shallot (or a bit 
of onion) and a sprig of parsley; melt a teaspoonfiil of but- 
ter in a skillet, add the mince when the butter is hot ; cover 
it and allow it to stew for about fifteen minutes over a very 
moderate fire, shaking the skillet with its contents from time 
to time to prevent the latter from burning. Add a pinch or 



LETTER VII 51 

two of salt to the mince, and after you take it off the fire a 
little white pepper and a few drops of lemon juice. Set aside 
until next morning, when add one egg, and mix it in well. 
Now cut some slices of bread, brown them slightly in a little 
butter, then spread over one side of them the prepared kid- 
neys, about half an inch thick ; dust over them some grated 
Parmesan cheese, and over it some fine bread-crumbs. Sprinkle 
over the whole some melted butter, place the slices on a tin 
dish, and put them in a quick oven to get a light brown on top. 
Serve hot. 

A roast is not always desirable for a small family. Veal cutlets 
have the same nourishing properties, if prepared in the right 
w^ay. The cutlets from the loin are the best, but 
those cut from the leg may be made just as savory, 
and are the cheapest. Have the butcher cut you one pound 
off the leg in slices one-third of an inch (half a finger's width) 
thick. Divide this meat into pieces as large as the 
palm of your hand. Remove skin and bone, a la parmen- 
pound the cudets with the flat side of a kitchen ^'^''^' 
knife, and turn them in some flour. Then heat a teaspoonful 
of butter in a saucepan and throw in a teaspoonful of minced 
onion. When the latter begins to turn yellow put in your cut- 
lets, one beside the other, and add a ie\Y small slices of thinly 
cut ham. Let all get brown first on one side and then on the 
other. Sprinkle a very little salt over the veal, add some pep- 
per, and a few squeezes of lemon juice. When the ham is 
tender take it out and cut the lean in as many small diamond- 
shaped pieces as you have cutlets, and keep hot. Add a little 
water to the cutlets, cover them up and allow to simmer 
on a slow fire until quite tender, adding more liquid if 
necessary. Serv^e them on a bed of mashed potatoes, place a 
piece of ham on every cutlet and pour the gravy around the 
potatoes. 

When in Carlsbad, Austria, I learned from the bill of fare 
that this dish was called veal cutlet a la pir7?icnHere. After 
giving you this particular recipe in which you have the base 
for cooking veal cutlet, I leave it to you to vary according to 



52 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

your own good judgment. You might have peas instead of 
potatoes ; or you misrht leave out the ham and 

Vienna 5c/'/7/(ze/. . , , < . , , ,. ^, 

garnish the cutlets with capers and slices of lemon, 
serving the vegetable separately. The latter way is called 
Vienna Schnitzel. 

If parts of cooked or roasted veal are left over, you may use 
it to advantage for a baked hash, called mii-oton: Chop fine 

the veal and, if on hand, some fat ham or bacon. 

Af/rofo/J of veal. r  i r  r 

Mince a slice of onion and a few sprigs of pars- 
ley. Take bread-crumbs, about a third of the amount of 
chopped meat ; soak them in milk, and squeeze dry by means 
of a clean towel. Add some salt and white pepper, and one ^gg 
beaten light beforehand. Mix well all these ingredients, then 
warm  but do not cook  them in a saucepan. Now taste 
the hash, and see that it is right in salt and spice. Put it into 
a deep dish, well buttered, and bake it in a quick oven. It 
ought to turn out whole. A tomato or a caper sauce served 
with it will greatly improve this dish. 

A great delicacy are the sweetbreads. They are both nour- 
ishing and easily digested, therefore invaluable for the sick. 

But, unfortunately, they are so high-priced in our 
?iId^cSf?head large cities (even in the country butchers no 

longer throw them away, as they used to do) that 
they belong to the luxuries. A calf's head also is not cheap ; 
it, however, furnishes us with enough material to permit even 
an economical housewife to purchase it now and then. Beside 
the meat and skin there are the brains and the tongue for use. 
Since all gelatinous matter  and the calf's head has a great 
deal of it  is not easily digested, the addition of a slight acid 
is necessary either in the preparation of such matter or in 
what is served with it. To increase the nutritive properties of 
calf s head, eggs are a first-rate complement. 
Recipes for ^ \i2i\^ two recipcs which I would recommend 

calf's head. ^Qo^Cci for their simplicity and wholesomeness. 

After the head has been properly scraped and cleaned 
(which the butcher generally does), have it spUt in halves, 
giving particular orders not to split the tongue as well. Soak 



LETTER VII 53 

the whole in cold water for about two hours, then remove the 
brain and set it aside. Put the halves, with the tongue, on the 
fire, with cold water to cover it ; add salt in moderate quantity ; 
add one or two pounds of beef bones, if you wish to make 
your dish particularly nourishing. After the scum is removed 
add two carrots, one turnip-rooted celery, one onion, a bunch 
of parsley, eight white pepper seeds, and half a cup of vinegar. 
Allow to boil slowly until soft, which will be in about two hours. 
Now take the fleshy parts off the bone, also the ears, and peel 
the tongue (unless you wish to save it for a special dish later 
on, when it will keep fresher in its skin) . Cut all this into 
nicely shaped pieces and set to keep warm as much of it as 
you wish to use for your dish presently. The rest you cover up 
with some of the strained liquor and set away. In cold weather 
it will keep for weeks. It can be used in various fashions, for 
soups, ragouts, etc. ; or it may be baked. 

Although the brains may be used for a soup or fried in a 
batter, etc., I propose that you should use them for a dish of 
"baked calf s head." Take as much as about half of the above 
cooked head. Cut the pieces rather small. After the brains 
have been well soaked in salted w^ater, scald them in boiling 
water, and remove all skins and veins ; then mash them through 
a sieve, mix them with a cupful of cream, half a teaspoonful of 
flour, two eggs well beaten, a saltspoonful of salt and a sprinkle of 
nutmeg. Butter a dish in which to serve it, put in it the pieces 
of calf's head and pour over them the above mixture. Bake in 
the oven until brown, and serve the following anchovy sauce 
with it : Take a teaspoonful of butter ; when hot mix it with a 
scant teaspoonful of flour ; add gradually and stirring all the 
while about half a pint of the liquid in which the calf's head 
has been boiled, or any other broth (water even will do). 
When well mixed add four sardines out of brine, which have to 
be well washed and bones removed beforehand. Or, if more 
convenient, add instead half a teaspoonful of anchovy paste. 
Add also one small onion, the peel of a quarter-lemon, and allow 
the whole to boil from half an hour to one hour. Put through 
a wire sieve, then add some lemon juice and a tablespoonful of 



54 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

capers ; set it again on the fire, and as soon as it comes to the 
boiUng-point stir in the yolks of two eggs beaten up either in a 
little cooking wine or cream. Serve in a boat. 

The other recipe is called calf's head en tortue. Use for 
it, we will say, the other half of the calf's head you have in 
readiness. If you wish to use the tongue as well, peel it and 
slice it evenly. Set it to get warm in some of its own liquid. 
After that prepare a sauce in this way : Melt a piece of butter the 
size of an egg, mix with it one teaspoonful of flour ; then stir 
into it half a pint or more of the liquid in which the head has 
been boiled, and which, of course, has been strained. Let it 
bubble up and stir over a moderate fire until quite smooth. 
Then add half a teaspoonful of Liebig dissolved in a little boil- 
ing water, and the prepared pieces of the calfs head. Have 
the whites of three hard-boiled eggs chopped fine ; add them 
and a tablespoonful of capers. Put the whole on a moderate 
fire and, stirring repeatedly, allow it to simmer for five minutes 
longer. At the very last add the juice of half a lemon and a 
saltspoonful of white pepper. Stir to get it well mixed in and 
remove from the fire. Serve in a hot dish, placing the nicest 
pieces in the middle, with skin uppermost, the tongue, if used, 
in a circle next to them ; pour over it some of the sauce ; and 
serve the rest in a boat. Garnish with slices of lemon and 
parsley, or water-cress. 

To be economical you will save the tongue for a breakfast 
dish. It will suffice for two, if the calf was a large one. It is 
very nice prepared thus : After the tongue is boiled, 
dish of calf's and the skni peeled off, cut it ni two lengthwise, 
"^"^' turn the halves in sweet oil or melted butter, then 

in some fine bread-crumbs which have been mixed with a little 
salt and some minced parsley. Broil them over a bright fire 
until they are light brown. 

To make a roulade of veal, take the breast. Have your 
butcher take out the bones. Then separate the upper from 
h roulade ^^c lower part in such a way that both hang 

o^^ea'- together and form one thin square piece when 

opened out. Lay it, inside uppermost, on a meat-board, and 



LETTER VII 55 

dust it over with salt and pepper. Now make a forcemeat in 
the following way : Take half a pound of veal freed from fat 
and skin and mince very fine. Take also some suet, and mince 
it as fine as possible. Mix the two, and add half a teaspoonful 
of minced shallot (or onion) which previously has been steeped 
in hot butter until yellow ; also two eggs well beaten, a sprinkle 
of grated nutmeg, and a saltspoonful of salt. Mix the whole 
thoroughly and spread part of it over your veal to the thickness 
of half a finger's width. Cover this layer of forcemeat with 
oblong strips (about half an inch thick) of fat bacon, boiled 
ham or tongue, and red beets, some parsley leaves, small 
gherkins, and slices of hard-boiled eggs. Arrange all this 
tastefully as to colors and distances. Then spread over the 
whole another layer of forcemeat, which press down to secure 
the pieces underneath. Have a flat surface. Now roll up the 
meat so as to have the filling all inside. Roll it tight, sew it 
together with needle and thread, and string it around with 
twine. Take broth enough from the soup-pot to cover the 
rolled meat. Place a tight-fitting lid on the stew-pan in which 
you cook the meat, and boil it over a gentle fire for about 
three hours. When tender take it out of the liquor, put it 
between two boards, and place a heavy weight (a flat-iron, for 
instance) on top. Let it remain over night, and the next day 
it will be fit for slicing. As long as you cannot afford boned 
turkey, this is a good substitute when you have 
company for tea or luncheon. If the slices are ^e^a'i'to take 
arranged in a ring, and the centre filled either with bo^^^J^^rkl 
a mayonnaise salad or a slightly acid meat-jelly^ 
broken up in small pieces, it makes a very palatable and at 
the same time ornamental dish. 

Mutton is easier to digest than veal, if the meat is of a young 
and well-fed animal. In boilins^ or roasting mut-  

<-' o General re- 

ton or lamb, a bouquet of thyme and sweet marks about 
marjoram should be added, which improves the 
flavor of the meat. A leg of mutton can bear even a button 
of garlic. 

1 See p. 79. 



56 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

To boil a leg of mutton, crush to a coarse powder a twig of 
thyme, a bay leaf, and six black pepper seeds ; chop coarsely an 
 . , onion and a clove of garlic ; mix the whole and 

Recipe for . , 

boiling a leg add a teaspoonful of salt. Rub this mixture into 
the outside of the mutton, lap the latter tightly 
around with a napkin, and sew it up with thread and needle. 
Place it in a pot with a tight-fitting lid, and no more than 
cover it with boiling water. Add to the latter a teaspoonful of 
salt and the same vegetables as for soup-liquor, with the addi- 
tion of some thyme and sweet marjoram. Do not let it boil 
violently. A leg of about seven pounds ought to be done in 
one hour and three-quarters to two hours. Take the napkin 
off just before serving. A puree of white turnips or a white 
caper sauce is a fit accompaniment. 

The loin makes a savory roast. Add an onion cut in two and 

a bouquet of sweet marjoram and thyme after the roast has 

taken color. But the best roast of mutton is the 

Loin of mutton. ^ , ... . . . , , . 

saddle. 1 his is the two loins without being sep- 
arated. Have the butcher trim off the flaps, the tail, and the 
shoulder-blades. It requires a brisk oven and ten to fifteen 

minutes roasting for each pound. Add the bou- 

To roast ^ ^ 

a saddle of quct Tcquircd for mutton and an onion. Peel off 

the skin which covers the top of the saddle when 
nearly done (about twenty minutes before) ; sprinkle the flit 
which remains with salt, then with melted butter, and cover it 
all over with finely sifted bread-crumbs. Now continue the 
roasting, top part uppermost, until done, when the meat ought 
to be covered with a crisp brown crust. Garnish this delicious 
roast with small potatoes browned in butter, and small glazed 
onions,^ all of one size. Have it accompanied by green peas. 
Apply the same process to a quarter of spring 

Spring lamb. -, , , ,  i i  i  j v  

lamb, than which there is nothing more delicious. 

The cheapest pieces of mutton are the shoulder and the 

breast. As to the former, let the butcher take out the bones, 

which, of course, you use for soup. Put bits of bacon here 

1 See p. 125. 



LETTER VII 57 

and there over the inside of the meat, and sprinkle over it some 
salt, black pepper, minced parsley, and a little crushed thyme. 
Roll the meat up tightly and fasten it with  . 

. . yj J ^ 1  1 1 Recipe for 

twine. Put it mto a stew-pan, ni which has been a shoulder of 
heated a tablespoonful of butter. Brown it 
rapidly on all sides. Then add boiling water enough to cover 
it about half. Salt but slightly, and put around the meat a few 
onions, some carrots and turnips, a bay leaf, one or two cloves, 
a bunch of parsley, and thyme. As soon as the whole comes to 
a boil, remov^e from the top of the stove to the oven, and allow 
it to stew there slowly until done. Place the meat on a hot 
dish and arrange the vegetables around it. Add a scant table- 
spoonful of flour to the liquor remaining in the pan. Let it 
boil for five minutes, while stirring ; taste if it needs salt, and 
pour this gravy over the meat. 

A breast of mutton you may treat in the same way, or you 
may boil it with soup vegetables and salt until tender; then 
drain it, turn it first in melted butter, and after-  . , 

' Recipe for 

wards in a mixture of bread-crumbs, minced a breast of 
shallots and parsley, salt and pepper, over which 
you sprinkle some more melted butter. Place the whole be- 
tween a double gridiron and broil it until light brown over a 
quick fire. 

Mutton chops are always best when broiled. Apply the same 
principle to them as I demonstrated in regard to beefsteak. 
If you wish them extra fine, do as follows : Broiled 
Mince a small onion, and as much as a tea- "^"^^" ^hops. 
spoonful of parsley for about four chops. Mix both with a 
scant tablespoonful of olive oil, and rub your chops with this 
mixture. Place one upon another, and leave standing for five 
minutes. Broil them over a bright fire, sprinkling with salt and 
pepper when done. Or in this way : Turn your chops first in 
melted butter, and then in part bread-crumbs and p:irt grated 
Parmesan cheese, the two mixed together. Then broil. 

The kidneys also furnish you with a good breakfast or lunch- 
eon dish. Divide them into halves, but so as to let them 
hang together. Dust over them salt and pepper, and turn them 



5S LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

well in bread-crumbs. Then broil them over a quick fire 
until light brown. Be careful not to expose them to the heat 
Breakfast ^*^^ ^"^"^ * ^^^^^ Hiust be soft and juicy. Have ready- 

dish of mut- a mixture of fresh butter and minced parsley (to 

ton kidneys. j . n  , 

which you may aad tarragon and cives, all mmced 
very fine) ; form the mixture into little balls as large as a 
pill ; put one inside of each kidney ; squeeze a few drops of 
lemon juice on each, and double up the halves. Serve while 
hot. 

I give you in all these recipes only an outline of what can 
be done with meat. You understand that it is for you to en- 
large on them, and apply the rudimentary rules to all other 
dishes on which you wish to try your skill. It is the "spirit of 
cookery," which I principally want to instil into you. 



LETTER VIII 

I am one that am nourished by my victuals, and would fain have meat. 

 Shakespeare. 

I HAVE come now to the most despised of animals  the pig, 
which in spite of all the ignominy heaped on it, lavishes on 
MS an abundance of acceptable gifts in the shape 
of pork, ham, sausages, etc. Grimod de la Rey- remar'ks 
niere, in fact, calls the pig " V animal encyclope- Jn3?hepig 
dique par excellence,^'' and in an old German 
cook-book of the XVI. century we read, ^' If a sow were feath- 
ered and would fly over a fence, she would be superior to all 
poultry and birds of the air." But pork of all meats is hardest 
to digest. This is chiefly owing to its toughness of fibre, which 
resists mastication, and thus causes larger particles of food 
to be conveyed to the stomach than is otherwise the case. 
There is, however, a great difference in pork according to what 
the animal has been fed on. The sweeter its food was the 
better the meat will be, and the healthier at the same time. 
Pigs fed on chestnuts are considered the best. The ancient 
Greeks ate pigs' livers only if the animals had been, fed on 
figs, and wine made of honey. And the " Edda " tells us that 
the heroes in Walhalla are treated by Odin with meat of wild 
boar, who is the progenitor of the pig. All this goes to show 
how much pork, and all derived from it, has been esteemed in 
all times and ages. 

Nevertheless you would hardly treat your dinner guests with 
a dish of pork, but rather keep it for the family meal. A rib 
roast, if tender is, indeed, succulent and deli- 

f. ^ , ,   1  Roasted pork. 

cious of flavor. Always roast it with an onion cut 
into halves, and a clove stuck in each half. Sprinkle plenty of 
salt over the upper crust of fat, and let it get well done, with- 

59 



60 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

out dr}nng up the juices. Some people like a layer of brown 
bread-crumbs put over the top of the roast after it is done. 
Sprinkle over it a little fine sugar, a pinch of ground cloves, 
and lastly some melted butter. Put it once more in the oven 
to take color. A Cumberland sauce goes well with this roast. 
Recipe for Cum- To make it, pour the fat from the pan in which 
beriand sauce. ^]^g pQj-]^ j^^g l^ggj-j loastcd, and add to the brown 

sediment in the bottom of it half a cup of broth, a wineglass- 
ful of claret, a tablespoonful of French mustard, and as much 
of currant jelly. Let the whole boil up, and strain through a 
fine sieve. If any fat remains skim it off the top. 

A filet or tenderloin of pork is an inexpensive piece of meat 
inasmuch as there is no waste. Take either the pair of them 
^, , ,  since they are excellent for slicing and eating 

How to roast ^ _ . . 

tenderloin cold  or Only One if it is large, which will be 

sufficient for your dinner of three. It must be 
well skinned and not entirely bare of fat. Boil a cupful of 
vinegar with one small onion sliced, one slice of lemon, one 
bay leaf, one sage leaf, one sprig of thyme, six black pepper 
seeds, one clove, for five minutes. Pour it boihng hot all 
over your pork, turning it in this liquid a few times. Have a 
piece of butter the size of a walnut heated beforehand in a 
small dripping-pan, and when hot put in the filet, browning it 
quickly on all sides. Then continue to roast slowly for about 
one hour, adding a spoonful of the strained vinegar from time 
to time, to keep the bottom of the pan moist. Sprinkle with 
salt and baste frequently. A quarter of an hour before it is 
done, pour over your meat a gill of thick cream. Baste it a 
few times. This helps to make the sauce ; remove all but a 
little of the fat on it, and serve either poured over the filet or 
in a boat. 

A very economical roast is the spring or the foreloin of pork. 
Let the butcher remove the bones, and prepare the following 
 . , stuffing : Cut two French rolls into thin slices. 

Recipe for '^ 

stuffed fore- pour ovcr them a cupful of boihng milk ; let soak 

oin o por . ^ while and get cool. Then add three eggs, half 

a teaspoonful of salt, a teaspoonful of minced onion, as much 



LETTER Vni 61 

of minced parsley, a slight sprinkle of grated nutmeg, and beat 
the whole until light and smooth. Fill this stuffing in the in- 
side of the meat, where the bones have been taken out, and 
secure it by sewing the edges of the meat together. Roast it 
in the usual way. 

If you wish to cook pork chops, I would recommend to 
have them well pounded on both sides, then turned in bread- 
crumbs, in an egg beaten up and salted, and 
once more in bread-crumbs. Saiite^ them in a 
little hot butter, shaking them frequently to prevent their scorch- 
ing. They take from twenty minutes to half an hour to get 
done, and must be of a light brown on both sides. 

A favorite with all of us is the ham, and for good reasons. 
Although in the process of curing some of its nutritive juices are 
lost, it is made fitter for dis^estion by means of the 

, . . , 1 /-I 1  About ham. 

salt entermg and softenmg the tough fibres and tis- 
sues. If not too large, a ham, even for a small family, is no piece 
of extravagance. In cool weather it will keep for a week after 
being cooked, and will help out in many ways. You know how 
nice it is when cold and sliced. Served with a green salad it 
makes a nice dish for lunch or supper. It may also be served 
with a cold sauce made in this way : Take about an ounce 
of lump sugar, rub into it the outside of half an a sauce for i 
orange and squeeze over it two tablespoonfuls of ^"''^ *^^'^- 
its juice. When the sugar is melted, add to it a heaped tea- 
spoonful of French mustard, two tablespoonfuls of salad oil, 
and as much good vinegar. JNIix thoroughly. Or serve with 
your cold ham the following horseradish sauce : Take two 
tablespoonfuls of sweet cream ; one tablespoonful of best vine- 
gar, half a teaspoonful of sugar, and as much of ^ ^; ^ f^^ ' 
salt. Beat it up, and add as much grated horse- horseradish 
radish as it will take to make a thick sauce. You 
may also combine these two sauces, by leaving out the cream 
and mustard. They both go equally well with cold corned beef, 
with boiled fish, and poultry. 

1 See p. 76. 



62 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

In case you wish to serv^e your boiled ham heated over, I 
propose the following way : Cut it into even slices, soak 
Boiled ham them iu cold milk for about half an hour, then 

heated over. .^^,jpg them dry. Make a brown roux} add to it 

some broth (or water if you have none), a little lemon peel, a 
blade of mace, and six black pepper seeds. Let all this boil 
slowly for half an hour, when strain and add a wineglassful of 
port wine or sherry. Put the sHced ham into this sauce, place 
it over boiling water; cover it up, and let it get hot. Serve it 
in a rice-ring ^ dusted over with grated Parmesan cheese, if you 
choose to do so. 

You may also mince some of the lean part of your boiled 

ham, and serve it dusted over a dish of boiled macaroni ; or, 

in layers between boiled rice, and baked au gratin 

Oiher ways , , i  i i  i 

of using up  I.e. browned on top and served m the dish 

01 e ham. baked in. There are, in fact, so many different 

kinds of nice dishes to be made of ham that in mentioning 
some of them I forgot that I have not told you as yet how 
to boil a ham  which is quite important to know. Buy only 
the best of ham, and then do not soak it in water over 
How to boil i^ight, as a good many cook-books tell you, but 

^ ^^^- have it washed and scrubbed with a brush 

in lukewarm water. Put it on the fire in cold water, which 
must cover it entirely. Have a tight-fitting lid for the pot in 
which you cook it. Let it come to a boil very slowly, then 
change the water for fresh which is boiling when poured over. 
Place the pot now where the water will not boil, but merely 
simmer. The ham is done when the skin, being lifted at the 
end, will pull off easily. It will take from four to five hours to 
cook a small ham. 

To roast a ham, cook it as above, and after the skin has been 
How to peeled off, put it in a dripping-pan with a bottle- 

roast a ham. f^jj ^f pj-i^ie cidcr, and place it in a moderately 

hot oven for another hour. Baste it occasionally with the 
liquor in the bottom of the pan. 

1 See p. 70. 2 See p. 73. 



LETTER \Tir 63 

Speaking of ham, I am reminded that of cured food a 
boiled beefs tongue is a very good thing to have now and 
then, although it is less economical and not nearly h^^ ^^ 
as wholesome as ham. Beef tongue is extremely ^oii a tongue. 
fat, and there is the root of it, which counts in weight and is 
nearly all refuse. In boiling a tongue do as in boiling ham, 
with the one exception that a tongue is better for being soaked 
over night. If any cold tongue is left over, it will serve for a 
breakfast dish, done in the following way, given by Dumas :  

Cut your boiled tongue into very thin slices ; take the dish 
in which it is to be served, put in a few tablespoonfuls of broth 
(or a saltspoonful of Liebig) and a few drops of ^ (^^^^^_ 
vinegar or lemon juice. Have a mince made of fast dish of 

' 11 ^ 1 1 in ' -x '^''^ tongue 

pickled cucumbers, parsley, shallot (or onion), 
chervil, some black pepper, salt, and bread-crumbs. Spread a* 
thin layer of this mixture first, then a layer of sliced tongue, 
and so on, finishing with the mince. Dust over the whole 
some bread-crumbs, and put in a quick oven for about ten to 
fifteen minutes, to heat through and get brown on top. Just 
before semng, moisten it with a little more broth (or water). 

I have come now to poultry, and particularly chickens, than 
which there is nothing more delicate and wholesome in the 
way of meat. I am not Sfoing here into details ,, ^ ,^ 

' DO About poultry 

about dra-winsf, sincreinsr, and trussing poultry. You " general, and 

^^^ r 1 ^ > -, j   i i how to buy. 

Will find that descnbea m every practical cook- 
book. But I will give you a few hints, which may be valuable, as 
to making the most of the poultry you buy and of the great variety 
of dishes furnished by the barn-yard. When marketing, see 
that your chickens have flexible bones, that a duck's bill is not 
too hard to the touch, and that the feet are of a light yellow. 
You are sure, then, that both chickens and ducks are young. 
A young turkey has a more delicate skin than an old one ; nor 
are the flaps about its head of so dark a red. The barn- 
yard pigeons, if young, have very small heads, thick bills, a light 
skin, and a delicate yellowish down about head and breast and 
underneath their wings. An old fowl or old pigeons furnish an 
excellent broth for soup. Remember this in case of sickness. 



64 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

If you have a chicken which is not very fat, you may tie 
some thin shces of fat bacon or salted pork over its breast, and 
lay another couple of slices underneath while roasting. In re- 
spect to pigeons, squabs, and game in general, this process is 
invariably the best, since all birds lack in fat. They are best 
enveloped all around in slices of bacon, which Konig, in his 
famous "Geist der Kochkunst," calls their habit. 

If you have a very young chicken, it is best to split it down 
the back and broil it. It is also good dredged with flour and 
^ , , browned in an iron pan in some hot butter, first on 

About COOK- ' ] 

ing young the outcr sidc, then on the inner, sprinkling with 

ch ic kcnSi 

salt after the former is turned uppermost. When 
done and removed to a hot platter, pour a little cream into the 
frying-pan to boil up and mix with the brown deposit in it ; 
salt it slightly, add a few drops of lemon juice, and pour over 
the chicken. Serve it trimmed with bunches of parsley, either 
fresh or fried crisp in some boiling lard. I have had the 
breasts of a large chicken served in this way for two persons, 
while I kept the rest of the chicken for stewing on another 
day. 

The flavor of a young roasted chicken is greatly improved if 
you place inside it a piece of fresh butter the size of a walnut, 
and with it a bouquet of parsley and a small onion. If you 
like, you may also add the giblets to it, sprinkled with salt. I 
must not omit to tell you that the inside of poultry, after being 
drawn, ought always to be rubbed with some salt. 

Not merely a good, but also a good-looking dish is the fol- 
lowing : Take a well-prepared chicken, put it in a stew- 
. .. . , pot with four ounces of washed rice, half a dozen 

A disn of ^ ' 

stewed chicken mushrooms  if you will go to this extravagance 
 a sprinkle of salt, a blade of mace, four ounces 
of butter, and enou2:h boilinsj water to cover the whole. Cover 
with a tight-fitting lid, and allow to boil over a moderate fire 
until chicken and rice are tender. Add more water if needed ; 
or substitute beef broth for water, if you have it on hand,t^g^ 
which wnll make the dish more nourishing. The liquid must 
nearly all have been taken up by the rice. Remove the mace, 



LETTER VIII 65 

and serve the chicken with the rice around it. Garnish the dish 
with an outside rim of roses of cauliflower boiled in salt water, 
A fricassee of chicken is stewed chicken of a higher order. 
The following is a good recipe for it : Divide a chicken into 
four parts, put it in a pint and a half of boiling ^^^. ^ ^^^ 
water, to which add a piece of butter the size of a fricassee 

. . - . - of chicken. 

walnut, an onion cut in two, a few sprigs of pars- 
ley, half a bay leaf, and a teaspoonful of salt. Allow it to stew 
gently until the chicken is done, when remove and strain the 
liquor all but a little, in which you keep the chicken hot. 
Bring the strained liquor again to a boil, when drop into it two 
ounces of butter kneaded into a ball with one tablespoonful of 
flour. Let it boil five minutes when the ball will be dissolved ; 
then beat into it the yolks of one or two eggs which have 
been mixed with a little milk. If too thick, add some of the 
broth left on the chicken. x\t the very last add the juice of 
half a lemon, a very little white pepper, and another piece of 
butter the size of a walnut. Stir the same vigorously over the 
fire until quite hot again, but do not let it boil. If you wish to 
make it very nice you may add some button mushrooms, or 
a dozen oysters, or some crayfish tails. But should you think 
this too extravagant, you merely add some wheels of oyster- 
plant (salsify) which have been cooked by themselves in salt 
and water. This vegetable harmonizes very well with the sauce 
and chicken. Have rice or macaroni served with it. 

In the south of Germany, and especially at Vienna, a favorite 
way of cooking young chickens is to fry them in lard. They 
are called Backhaendl (baked cocks), in true 

-rr- T 1 1 IT- rr-i Backhaendl. 

Viennese dialect, and are delicious. Ihe 
haendl or cocks must not be older than two months, and well 
fed. Cut them into four parts ; first, lengthwise, then re- 
moving the spine, divide each half so as to have the breast 
and wing and second joint and drumstick each by itself. 
Take two eggs for two chickens, add to them two tablespoon- 
fuls of water and a saltspoonful of salt, and mix. Dredge the 
chickens first with flour, then turn them in the ^gg, and after 
that in fine bread-crumbs. The latter must be of bread one 



C6 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

day old, when it will not take up fat as much as crumbs 
from staler bread. Lay all the pieces thus prepared on a 
platter, side by side, and put a deep pan on the fire with one 
pound of lard (or half lard and half butter). Heat it until a 
thin piece of bread, when thrown in, will turn light brown in 
a few seconds. Then put into it one half of the chicken, 
and shake the pan gently until the chicken turns to a rich yel- 
lowish brown, which ought to be in two or three minutes. 
Remove the chicken with a skimmer to some blotting-paper. 
Repeat the same procedure with the other half of the chicken, 
after which throw into the hot lard a handful of 

Fried parsley. , ...,,, 

parsley. In one or two mmutes it will be as crisp 
as the chicken ; skim it out of the fat on to the paper. Dust 
over it some fine salt, and serve on top of the chicken. Green 
peas are the vegetable best suited to accompany this dish. 

Remnants of poultry may be done up to advantage in various 
 . , styles, either cut into small pieces and heated 

Various uses of _ ' ' _ ' 

remnants of in a whitc saucc, or as croquettes, or a ragotU, 

^^' or a salad with mayonnaise dressing, etc. 

A turkey you will provide but for special occasions. I think 

it worth while to give you for a trial the following, which is the 

very recipe for cooking a turkey as fancied by and served to 

the late German Emperor Wilhelm I. : Take a 

Stswsd turksv. 

deep oval pan with tight-fitting lid, large enough 
for the turkey to fit in. Heat half a pound of butter in it, and 
when hot put in the turkey. Add half a pound of ham cut in 
pieces, a plateful of sliced onion, and one pint of boiling water. 
Allow to stew slowly from two to three hours. Put the gravy 
through a sieve, and pour it over the turkey. Serve macaroni 
with it. 

The turkey drumsticks, if left over, you may serve up the 
second time " devilled." Make a cut down the side, take out 
Devilled ^^^ bones and cartilage carefully, dip in melted 

drumsticks. buttcr ; dust the inside over with salt and pepper, 

sprinkle it with lemon juice, and spread some mustard over 
the whole. Broil over a quick fire for a few minutes, and serve 
hot. 



LETTER VIII 67 

I have given you already a recipe for a duck. If you prefer 
to roast it, it is best to stuff it with a chestnut fiUing. Pigeons 
you may stuff and roast ; or you may fricassee them, 

, ,. r 11, 1 -.TT, About a duck. 

addmg some forcemeat balls to the sauce. When 
you serve them with boiled rice, proceed in the following way : 
Cut your pigeons into quarters, and saute them to a light 
brown in some butter. Then add a slice of onion 

. . . About pigeons. 

mmced, the juice of one or two tomatoes stranied 
through a sieve, salt, a little white pepper, a bouquet of parsley, 
and a little broth (or water). Stew them, cov- pigeons 
ered up, until tender. Serve them on top of some ^'^'^ '^'^' 
boiled rice, and pour the gravy over the whole. 

I add a few recipes for the stuffing of poultry. The follow- 
ing you may use both for chicken and turkey : Take two 
French rolls, soak, and squeeze dry; beat until ,, , 

' ' ^ ' ' About various 

hght with two whole e^sfs and the yolk of one eger. stuffing 

^T- 1 V J J i_i ri r  J for poultry. 

Mmce the liver ; add a tablespoonful of minced 
onion and as much parsley, a teaspoonful of salt, a little 
ground mace, and two ounces of butter, which melt. Mix 
the whole thoroughly, and heat, but do not let it come to the 
point of boiling. To this stuffing you may add also as much 
as one pound of sausage-meat, which makes it rich, and im- 
parts a flavor in harmony with poultry. 

A chestnut stuffing for either turkey or duck is made thus : 
Take a dozen large chestnuts, boil, peel and mash them. 
Cook the liver of your turkey or duck ; mince it very fine ; 
add a tablespoonful of minced ham, a teaspoonful of minced 
shallots (or onion), as much both of minced lemon peel and 
salt, a very Httle white pepper, two ounces of melted butter, 
two tablespoonfuls of grated bread, and the yolks of two eggs. 
Mix the whole thoroughly. 

A stuffing of oysters, to which you add bread-crumbs, melted 
butter, and a little ground mace and minced parsley, is perhaps 
the most delicious of all stuffings for either chicken or turkey, 
with the exception of truffles  an ingredient by far too ex- 
pensive for any sensible mortal to think of in a country like 
ours, devoid of this precious fungus. 



6S LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

I ^^^ll close with a stuffing for pigeons, and then release you 
for to-day. For three pigeons take one ounce and a half of 
bread, soak it in milk, and press it dry ; pour over it two ounces 
of melted butter ; add to it the minced livers of the pigeons, a 
slice of onion, and a few sprigs of parsley minced, a scant tea- 
spoonful of salt, a sprinkle of grated nutmeg, and three eggs. 
INIix well and fill it into the breasts of the pigeons from the 
 i'^tw* neck, by means of a teaspoon. 



LETTER IX 

Thy spirit be thy guide. 

 Friedrich Von Sallet. 

THERE is one branch of cookery which I might call the flower 
of the culinary art. This is the making of 7'agoiUs and their 
attendant sauces. An ordinary cook has not the 
faintest idea how to produce them ; it requires art^st^c,"se!^ei ^ 
both taste and study to achieve success in this aisoeconomu 

' cal purposes. 

line. I want you to devote your best mind to the 
production of 7'agoiits and sauces, since they may be adapted 
at the same time to the requirements of a luxurious dinner and 
of a modest one, as I am going to show you. Suppose you 
/ have a remnant of chicken left, too insignificant to put on 
the table either cold or warmed up. Take it, every scrap of 
it, except the skin, and cut it in tiny pieces  squares if possi- 
ble. If the liver has been saved, so much the better ; cut it 
in tiny squares likewise, and set both aside. Now make a thick 
white sauce (of which later), which you flavor with some an- 
chovy paste as large as a pea, and a sprinkle of lemon juice. 
With this sauce you mix your meat. Then pour a teaspoonful 
of olive oil in a saucer, brush it over the inside of some scallop- 
shells (one for each person), fill the latter with your ragout, 
which must be quite hot, sprinkle some dry bread-crumbs 
over it, and then some grated cheese. Put a few flakes of table 
butter on top of each ; place the shells in a sheet-iron pan, and 
brown them in a quick oven, which will take about five minutes. 
They must be watched, lest the ragout dry up. Serve the 
shells immediately over a folded napkin on a china dish. 

They make a nice appetizer when eaten between the soup 
and meat course ; and they furnish the best and nicest way of 
using up meat as well as fish. 

69 



) 



70 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

Now you can take the same recipe and, for a special occasion, 
turn it into a 

Salpicon Royal.  Cut into small dice the breast of a chicken, 
some sweetbreads and mushrooms, all cooked beforehand ; 
add a bechamel sauce, in which some crayfish butter has 
been melted ; pour this mixture either into shells of pastry or 
small paper cases, and serve hot. Or, more luxurious still, 
prepare a 

Salpicon a la Conde.  Take equal parts of prepared sweet- 
breads, the reddest of beef tongue, the blackest of truffles ; cut 
them into small dice, and moisten well with a thick white sauce 
flavored with lemon juice and mushroom. 

The term '' salpicon " is generally applied to a ragoiU fin, 

the ingredients of which are cut into fine squares. A I'agoiit 

always requires a savory or piquant sauce, and 

i^^a^nJih^i^"^"" mostly is composed of mixed materials, which, 

requisites of howcvcr, havc to be so assorted that they blend 

a ragout. ' -' 

harmoniously. The greatest care must be be- 
stowed on the sauce which completes the whole. It is either 
a brown or a white sauce, according to the solids used. If 
remnants of cooked beef, mutton, or venison are to be turned 
into a ragoiU, a brown sauce is required ; for veal, poultry, fish, 
etc., a white sauce is needed. The foundation of a sauce is 
flour and butter mixed, which is called a ronx. The propor- 
tions are one spoonful of butter to one spoonful of flour. Melt 
the butter, mix it with the flour, and stir over the fire a few 
minutes only, if the sauce is to be white. Do not allow it to 
How sauces take color. For brown sauce, set this mixture on 

are made. ^j^g back of the stovc Until it tums to a rich brown. 

Stir it frequently, and do not allow it to become attached to 
the bottom of the pan (one of sheet-iron is best) or to get 
black in any part. Now, to get the consistency of sauce, add 
to the roiix the liquid required. Add it lukewarm and little 
by little, stirring all the while in one direction ; thus you avoid 
getting lumps. When properly thinned, stir over the fire until 
it begins to boil ; then set it on the side of the stove and allow 
it to continue boiling gently until the flour is cooked, which 



LETTER IX 71 

will be in about fifteen minutes. To keep the mixture for use 
later in the day, put it in a saucepan with tight-fitting Hd, which 
you place in an open pan filled to reach three-quarters up the 
saucepan with boiling water. This you put on a place where 
the latter will keep boiling hot, but not boil. The liquid to be 
added to the roux varies as to the sauce to be made. A 
white sauce requires either a clear, mildly flavored veal or 
chicken broth, or it is made with milk and cream, sometimes 
with the addition of an ^gg. A brown sauce ought always to 
be more or less piquant ; the broth used may either be of beef 
or from scraps and bones of dark meat, flavored with spice, 
onions, pickles, or other accessories of the kind. 

Professional cooks keep " stock " on hand for the making of 
sauces, but this is far too expensive a way for you and me. 
The contents of the soup-pot are all we need, and, by adding 
afterward to the above white or brown sauces the condiments 
needed to suit the kind of food they are to accompany or form 
a whole vWth, we can make with ingenuity as good a sauce 
without stock, as the best of professional cooks can with stock. 
A brown sauce, however, can always be improved in looks as 
well as in regard to its nourishing qualities by adding to it at 
the last moment some of Liebig's extract. 

With the plain white and brown sauce you can manage to 
produce pretty nearly any kind of sauce that you will need. 
If you wish to serve some slices left from cooked beef, mutton, 
or tongue, the following is a good recipe for a 

Brown Ragout Sauce.  Prepare your sauce in the way 
\ demonstrated, then add one onion, one bay leaf, one clove, 
four allspice, six black pepper seeds, a bouquet of parsley, 
summer savory or sweet basil, and continue to let it boil gently 
for half an hour longer, stirring from time to time. Strain 
through a wire sieve, and half an hour before serving add some 
lemon juice or a little vinegar, and either capers, slices of 
pickled cucumbers, or mushrooms  or, if preferred, all three 
of them. At the last you add the meat, which must be fully 
covered with sauce. Cover it up tight and place it over boil- 
ing water, where the meat will get heated, and blend with the 



I J LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

sauce without coming to a boil. Cooked meat heated over 
must never boil, or it will get tough. 

Of white sauces the bechamel is the most useful. The 
original one, invented by Louis XIV. 's famous chef, M. 
Bechamel, is a very elaborate one, of which there are many 
descendants of high and low degree. The latter, however, are 
by no means to be despised. I have, in fact, a special fond- 
ness for the following one, which I recommend to you for its 
simplicity, tastiness, and wholesome as well as nourishing prop- 
erties. 

)' Plain Bechamel Sauce.  Make a roiix as for white sauce, 
substitute milk for broth, add one onion, a flake of mace, 
and a bunch of parsley. Let boil for fifteen minutes, then 
strain. 

This is a very good sauce for poultry, sweetbread, and ham, 
and also for certain vegetables. For a ragout or a salpicon, 
take half milk and half veal (or chicken) broth, and flavor 
with a few mushrooms instead of mace and parsley. 

I can recommend also the following 

Sauce Allemande.  Make a white sauce with either chicken 
or veal broth, add to it one onion, half a slice of raw ham cut in 
squares, a few white pepper seeds, the peel of one quarter 
lemon ; allow it to boil for half an hour, when strain and flavor 
with lemon juice. 

To this sauce, as to any other, you may add any accessory 
which serves your purpose, if you merely take care that noth- 
ing incongruous enters into your dish. I use it for a 

Mixed Ragoiit in a Pastry Shell {vol au venf).  Take two 
calves' tongues ; boil them in your soup-pot. When done, 
peel the skin and trim off the roots. Prepare one or two 
sweetbreads in the following way : Wash them well, put them 
in a saucepan, cover with cold water, let them simmer  not 
boil  for one hour until they are well blanched. Meanwhile 
put water on to boil in another saucepan, and throw into the 
boiling water the blanched sweetbreads ; let them boil for a 
few minutes, removing the scum which rises ; then put them 
into cold water, and after they get cool take them out and 



LETTER IX 73 

trim off the skin and cartilage. Both tongues and sweetbreads 
are now ready for use. Cut them into shoes and put them 
into the above sauce, which must be rather thick ; keep hot 
over boihng water. Add some mushrooms, either canned or 
fresh.^ If you wish to make this 7'agotit first-rate, you add at 
the very last some forcemeat balls boiled in broth. Serve the 
whole in a shell of pastry, with a cover of the same, which you 
can order of a baker or confectioner, heating it in an oven for 
five minutes before use. 

You can also dress the ragoiU inside a rim of croutons. 
Take shoes of stale bread, cut off the crust, shape it either in 
square, triangular, or circular pieces, throw them 
into boihng lard until they are of a deep yellow, ^f^ake a ring 

, , . . , , . of croutons, 

when remove them to a piece of blottmg paper to 
drain off the grease. Have ready a mixture of white of tgg 
and flour, by means of which you fasten the lower edges of the 
croutons to the rim of your dish (which must be slightly warm) 
so as to form an inclosure for the ragout to be poured and 
served in. 

You may also serve a ragout in either a rice or a potato 
rim ; this is, however, a somewhat tedious process. I therefore 
prefer for a change to make a rim of boiled rice ,, 

f . '^ . How to 

in a plain way, by boiling the rice until quite thick make a plain 
and soft, then filling it hot into a well-buttered ' ^ ^'"^' 
ring-shaped mould made of tin. Now, by pressing the rice 
down, it can be turned out on a warm dish, and is ready at 
once to be filled with anything you please. 

I have been writing at length on the subject of these mixed 
dishes, because I consider them a very valuable chapter in 
cookery. Far from being unwholesome if composed of whole- 
some food, they, on the contrary, are apt to tempt even a 
delicate and dainty stomach, and by their nutritious contents 
to benefit a reduced system. Then, what a field for invention 
these dishes are, and with what comparatively small expense 
they furnish the showiest and most palatable entrees for a 
company dinner ! 

1 See p. 96. 



<4 LEITERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

Since I am ^^Titing on sauces, I will add here a few more 
cold sauces for serving with both cold and warm meat. They 
also have the advantage of keeping for days after they are 
made. The simplest is the 

Maitre d'Hotel Sauce or Butter.  Take four ounces (four 
tablespoonfuls) of the freshest butter and either one teaspoon- 
ful each of minced parsley and tarragon or, if the latter cannot 
be had, two teaspoonfuls of parsley. Beat the butter with a 
wooden spoon, mixing well with it the minced herbs, and add- 
ing gradually the juice of one lemon. Add a little salt if the 
butter is not much salted already  or add a flavor of anchovy 
paste, which gives an agreeable piquancy to the butter. A 
spoonful of this butter heaped on a broiled steak oi; fish is very 
good. It can also be used as a beautiful garnish for a dish of 
either meat or fish by putting as many small egg-shaped lumps 
of this butter as there are persons, inside of curled lettuce 
leaves ; place them here and there on the edge of the dish. 

An excellent appetizer, when desirable, is the 
/ Sauce Tartare.  Chop very fine two shallots, mince also 
some tarragon and chervil, and mix with one heaped teaspoon- 
ful of French mustard and the yolks of two eggs, to which add 
one teaspoonful of vinegar, one tablespoonful of oil, a little 
white pepper and salt, stirring all the time in one direction. 
If you notice that the sauce begins to curdle, add a little more 
\4negar. Taste to see whether it is sufficiently salted ; if too 
much salted, remedv it bv adding a little more mustard and 
oil. 

This is Alexandre Dumas' recipe. 

A more pretentious sister to our excellent mint sauce is 
this : 

Herb Sauce {Sauir a la Raingote).  Chop fine equal parts 
of chervil, pimpernel, water-cress, cives, parsley, and tarragon. 
Mix with them the hard-boiled yolks of two eggs, add one 
scant tablespoonful each of French mustard and oil, a teaspoon- 
ful of \'inegar, some white pepper and salt, and stir for half 
an hour. 

I do not mention the sauce mayonnaise ; I will do so 



LETTER IX 75 

when I come to speak about salads. For the present you have 
quite enough matter to try your hand on. But let me advise 
you, before I close this letter, to use for your sauces always the 
best of butter ; otherwise all your trouble will be in vain. I 
have for that statement, outside of my own experience, such an 
authority as Gouff^, 



LETTER X 

Dost thou know the art 

Of butter and of lard ? 

In finger-tips canst feel 

How much pepper and salt to deal ? 

WHEN I told you about the cooking of meat by means of 
boiling, roasting, stewing, and broiling, I made no mention 
of frying, or sautemg. I kept it in store for a separate demon- 
stration. For to fry as it should be done, is not only a 
difficult process, but in regard to a rational diet, it is un- 
desirable to indulge in fried food more than occasionally. In 
case the distinction between frying and sauteixig should not be 
quite clear to your mind, I will explain here that the latter 

means browning in a small quantity of fat, while 
betwl^Jn^fry- the fomicr rcquircs immersion into hot fat. Fat, 

S3ui?ng- which is capable of a temperature three times as 

hot as boiling water, answers well to perform the 
urgent office of cementing at the very start the outside of 
the meat (or some other food-matter), in order to preserve 
the nourishing and juicy substances within. But the nature 
of the fat itself, which of necessity becomes a part of the food 
fried or satite^<\j causes the latter to become somewhat more 
hard to digest. I would, therefore, class a friture as a 
relish, in order to distinguish it from necessary food. Of 
the two, frying and saiitemg, the former is preferable, inas- 
much as the process, if carried out correctly, causes much less 
fat to attach to the object than will adhere in the slower 
process of j-^///<?'ing. The latter, in fact, is only admissible if 
the pan is thoroughly heated beforehand, and the fat, after 
being put in it, is made so hot as to surround the food 
instantly with a sort of crust. If this were not done, the fat 
76 



LETTER X 77 

would penetrate through the pores into the inside, destroy 
the juices, and make the food unpalatable, as well as decidedly 
unwholesome. 

It is with the manner of frying, or immersing, that I wish to 
make you particularly acquainted. For some of the greatest 
triumphs of culinary art are to be gained by it. In 

.1 r ^ -. . r , How to fry. 

the first place you want a deep casserole of good 
metal, and then the right sort of fat. Leaf lard, and suet ren- 
dered, or half and half of each, are equally "good. Take a large 
enough quantity of it to fully immerse what you wish to fry. 
Let it melt and get hot. To know when the right temperature 
is reached, watch and see when the air above it begins 
to waver. Then take a small piece of bread sliced thin, 
and throw it into the fat. If it sizzles and takes color in 
about five seconds, immerse at once the substance to be fried. 
Brillat-Savarin calls this the "surprise," and your whole success 
depends on its taking place at the right moment. If your fat 
begins to smoke, that moment is past already : you will then 
have to remove your casserole with the fat from the fire, add 
some fresh lard or suet, and watch again for the exact moment. 
After the surprise is effected, you slacken your fire to prevent 
the food from carbonizing. When the friiui-e turns to a 
golden brown, and rises to the surface, it is time to remove it 
with a strainer-ladle to a piece of blotting paper, which you 
place on a warm plate. All superfluous fat vvill enter into the 
paper and leave the frittp-e dry and crisp. For frying you 
may use almost any kind of cooked meat or vegetable, and 
fish when raw. Cereals, if fried, have to be cooked before- 
hand, but not so farinaceous food made of dough. Some of 
the finest frituj-es are croquettes, for which remnants of poul- 
try, veal, beef, fish, etc., may be appropriated. The founda- 
tion of croquettes is a thick sauce, for which take How to make 
a gill of sweet cream, butter the size of half an ^gg, croquettes. 
one tablespoonful of flour, a httle white pepper, salt, and a 
piece of lemon peel. I do not repeat how a sauce of this sort 
is made ; you know it already. When done, add to it, cut into 
tiny squares, whatever material you wish to use. Set it on ice 



78 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

to get cold. Then take as much as a tablespoonful of it at a 
time, mould it into pear-shaped or cylindrical forms, by rolling 
it lightly on a baking-board with your hand. After your 
croquettes are all formed, roll them in fine bread-crumbs, then 
in a beaten egg slightly salted, and once more in bread-crumbs, 
when they will be ready for immersion. Remember what I 
said about bread-crumbs api-opos of fried chickens in my last. 

Croquettes of sweetbread are among the most delicate. 
Calfs brains are best fried in batter, when they are very 
good indeed. Treat them hke sweetbreads,^ and boil them 
with an onion, a few pepper seeds, one bay leaf, and a Httle 
vinegar in salt and water. Divide them into pieces as large as 
an egg, and make the following batter : Beat over the fire 
until hot one cupful of milk, one whole e'^^, the 

Recipe of a batter.  -- , i ir i r i ? ^ 

yolk of another egg, half a saltspoonful of salt, 
and one tablespoonful of olive oil. Let it get cool, when add 
sufficient flour to make the batter thick, but not stiff. Stir 
until smooth. The same batter also serves for fried vegetables ; 
as, for instance, roses of cauliflower, pieces of squash, etc. 
Even flowers may be fried in it. The vegetables, as I said, 
have to be boiled beforehand. As to flowers, I found it 
stated in some German cook-book, that "white roses, elder- 
berry-blossoms, and nettles," fried in batter, are very good ; 
but I will not vouch for it. I myself have eaten in Italy, while 
staying in a primitive place among the Apennines, a frUiiJ-e of 
pumpkin-blossoms, and acknowledge that I quite relished it. 

There remains now for me to tell you something about that 

particular substance in the flesh of animals which is called 

glue or gelatine. It is derived principally from 

About gelatine. , . , .,  ^ \ i i 

the tissue, the cartilage or gristle, the tendons and 
bones. But the bones, skins, and fins of fish also furnish 
gelatine. It is extracted from meat or fish by prolonged boil- 
ing in water at the highest possible temperature. The latter is 
reached by preventing the steam from escaping from the pot in 
which the gelatinous matter is being boiled, and by the addition 
of salt.2 

1 See p. 72. 2 See p. 41. 



LETTER X 79 

Now, as to the use of glue or gelatine for nutritive purposes, 
the scholars are somewhat at variance. Some authorities hold 
that, although gelatine is rich in nitrogen (two parts 
of gelatine are equivalent to one of albumen), it is quality Jf "'^ 
hard to digest, and, therefore, as good as useless f^j^b^s\a c"es. 
for the organic building up of the system. Others, 
on the contrary, claim that gelatine, if it does not build up, has, 
at least, the valuable property of economizing the albuminoids 
demanded by the animal system, so that a minimum of them 
in connection with gelatine is well calculated for a time to pro- 
vide proper nutrition. These same authorities claim also that 
gelatine, because easily dissolved, is easily assimilated. In order 
not to be lost between these opposing teachings, I think it best 
to be on the safe side, and follow the precept of adding to a 
dish rich in gelatine (like calf s head, etc.) a slight ^^.^ ^^^^ 
acid, acting as a dissolvent. If gelatinous sub- as a dissolvent 
stances are used for a jelly, make it just stiff enough 
to stand, which will render it more palatable, and easier to 
digest, than when surcharged with them. 

To make meat-jelly or aspic, you have at your service the 
skin, nose, and ears of a calf's or a pig's head, the feet of both 
calf and pis:, the skin of pork or a boiled ham, _ ^ ^ 

i o? r 7 Substances 

the wing-ends, legs, and feet of poultry, etc. Such yielding mate- 
a jelly will enable you to produce plain dishes, as ^'^ ^^^ ^' 
well z.^ plats lie goiit,  highly fanciful and ornamental dishes. It 
is used, also, for garnishing, and, when broken up into irregular 
pieces, is very effective. Meat by itself will like- The uses of 
wise yield up the gelatine contained in its cellular "^eat-jeiiy. 
tissue, if boiled long enough for the process to take place. The 
meat in this case will be quite worthless, but the jelly will be of 
the best and most nutritious, albeit the most expensive. I 
will give you first a recipe for aspic, and later two for jelly. 

For aspic, to make it economical, take a couple of calfs 
feet, and any odd pieces of raw veal and beef, as Recipe for 
well as remnants of bones or gristle which you ^p'^- 
may have on hand. Bring it to the fire with three pints of cold 
water and a teaspoonful of salt. Skim well, and let it boil for 



80 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

three hours. Then add to it one small celery root, one small 
onion, half a carrot, a bouquet of parsley, one bay leaf, and six 
black pepper seeds. Allow to boil for about an hour longer, 
or until the meat of the calfs feet is ready to drop off the 
bones. Now strain it through a hair sieve, and let it stand over 
night. The next morning remove all the fat which may have 
collected on top, and test it as to its consistency. If it should 
not have jellied sufficiently, you will have to boil it a while 
longer ; if it is too stiff, add more water, and test it once 
more. To clear the jelly, dissolve it, and when nearly boiling, 
add to it the whites of two eggs, beaten to a slight foam, and 
i_i^^^^ the crushed egg-shells. Stir until it begins to boil, 

clear broth then rcmovc it to the side of the stove, cover it 

'^^ " up, and let it remain there without boiling for 

about half an hour. It is now ready to receive whatever 
acid and additional spice ( powdered, of course) you might 
wish to add. The juice of a lemon or a sour orange will 
make it pleasantly acid. Tarragon vinegar also gives it a 
pleasant flavor. By adding spice and acid the last moment, 
their characteristic flavor will be preserved, while, if allowed 
to participate in the process of boiling, their fine aroma 
would evaporate into the air. To give your jelly a good 
color, add also at the last moment two saltspoonfuls of Liebig, 
and see that it dissolves and mixes evenly with the liquid. 
Now cover a colander with a clean napkin, place it on a bowl 
large enough to hold your jelly, filter the latter through the 
napkin, and repeat this process if the jelly is not quite clear 
the first time. 

This jelly wdll keep for at least a week in winter, if kept in 
a cool place. But, in case it should begin to show specks of 
mould on its surface, it may be purified and saved for use by 
melting and bringing it to a boil. The scum then rising to the 
surface will have to be carefully skimmed off, and the liquid 
poured into a clean vessel for preservation. Broken up (as I 
said before) into small lozenge-shaped pieces, aspic or meat- 
jelly is a delicious accompaniment of cold sHced chicken or 
veal and, in fact, any kind of meat. 



LETTER X 81 

A very nice dish, either for luncheon or supper, is chicken in 
jelly. To make it economical, and yet preserve all the nutri- 
tives pertaining to it, do as follows : Boil the p^^, 
chicken whole with just enough (boiling) water for chicken 
to cover it. Add salt, and the vegetables and 
spice as for aspic. When the chicken is tender, remove it 
from the pot to a meat-board, cut the meat off the bones, and 
divide it into small pieces. Then take the bones, break them 
up with a cleaver, add the head and feet of the chicken, and 
put them back into the chicken broth. Let them boil for an 
hour longer, when you had better test it by taking out a spoon- 
ful, which you put on ice in a saucer. If it jellies when cold, 
you stop the boiling ; if not, you allow it to boil a while longer, 
until you obtain the desired result. Taste it now, to see 
whether salt or spice ought to be added. A slight addition of 
lemon juice is desirable, but not necessary. If your liquor is not 
muddy-looking, you need not clear it. Strain it over the pieces 
of chicken, which you place in a mould. They must be cov- 
ered and no more. After turning it out on a flat dish to be 
served, you may trim it with sprigs of parsley, lettuce leaves, 
and slices of lemon. The choicest accompaniment for chicken 
in jelly is a mayonnaise celery or lettuce salad. 

Once your aspic is made, you may appropriate part of it for 
embedding meat of any kind, as, for instance, slices of cold 
roast beef, veal, pork filet, or any remnants which you wish to 
serve the second time in dissruise. To make ^ , 
these dishes more fanciful, you put your mould on make ap/af 
ice and fill it half an inch deep with liquid aspic. 
After this is tolerably, but not quite firm, you arrange upon it a 
pattern of either slices of lemon, sprigs of parsley, capers or 
wheels of pickled cucumbers, pieces of cured and boiled 
tongue, slices of hard-boiled eggs, etc., according to choice 
and taste. This pattern shows when the jelly is turned out 
of the mould. Now pour some more of the liquid jelly into the 
mould, and when nearly firm, place a layer of meat well arranged 
on top of it, and so on until the mould is almost, but not quite 
full. Let it stand on ice for two hours before turning it out. 



82 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

The latter way, to be sure, is troublesome, and you will not 
often resort to it, but it goes to show what can be done, after 
all, with comparatively small means, if we want to make some 
extra exertion to please the guests we entertain. 

It is often convenient to have on hand something special for 
slicing down cold. For this purpose I recommend to you the 
Recipe for followiug rccipc for hcad-checse : Take a calf s 

head-cheese. head, and boil it in salt and water until quite 
tender ; then take it out, and after it is somewhat cool cut the 
meat into dice. Boil in another pot four calf's feet and one 
pound of pork, in just enough water to cover the whole. Add 
one onion, one bay leaf, the peel of one lemon, a dozen black 
pepper seeds, three cloves, a sprig of tarragon, half a pint of 
vinegar, and a teaspoonful of salt. When done cut the meat 
into dice and mix with those of the head. Now filter the 
liquor in which the calf's feet and pork have been cooked over 
the meat. Stir the whole until well mixed, put it in several 
small forms, and when cold set it away for future use. 

The remaining space of this letter I will devote to the prom- 
ised recipes for meat-jelly. They are both given by Dr. Wiel. 
The following he recommends for enriching gravies and soups, 
and to eat v^ith cold meat. He finishes by designating it as " an 
invaluable refreshment for fever-patients ! " 

Take three ounces of butter ; put in a large cooking-vessel, 
and let it melt, when add to it first one pound of lean ham 
Two recipes sUccd, thcu four pouuds of lean, gristly beef, the 

for meat-jelly. same amouut of gristly veal, and, if you should 
have it on hand, any bones or extremities of poultry. Add 
also three carrots, one yellow turnip, one celery root, three 
large onions each stuck with two cloves, a large sprig of tarra- 
gon, one teaspoonful of white pepper seeds, and a blade of 
mace. Add but little salt (about a teaspoonful) at first, since 
the ham is salted. If not sufficient, salt can be added, but re- 
member that it cannot be taken away. Allow all this to cook 
for about half an hour, while moving the contents of the vessel 
to and fro from time to time. As soon as a light brown sedi- 
ment is noticeable in the bottom of the vessel, add cold water 



LETTER X 83 

enough to cover up completely the meat and vegetables. Let 
the whole boil now uninterruptedly over a moderate fire for 
five hours. Skim well, and filter through a napkin. An addi- 
tion, at the last, of a scant tablespoonful of Liebig increases 
the piquancy and nutritiousness of the jelly. In cold weather 
it will keep for a long while. 

I have tried this recipe over and over again, and found it 
delicious. But I have never made any more at a time than 
half the quantity, which is all that is required for ordinary pur- 
poses. 

The second recipe is Dr. Wiel's jelly for persons suffering 
with stomach complaint. 

Take four calf s feet, two pounds of beef, and an old fowl. 
Boil them for a whole afternoon in five quarts of water, to 
which add half an ounce of salt. Skim well. An hour before 
it is done add a small pike. Drain, and let get cool over night. 
Next morning take off the fat, melt the jelly, and clear it with 
the whipped whites of six eggs and the crushed egg-shells. 
When as clear as wine, filter it, and add a good half ounce of 
Liebig. Put the jelly in small moulds (or bowls) and set it 
away in a cold place. 

This makes a large quantity. For one person about a fourth 
of all ingredients is more than sufficient. 

In my next I hope to get done with meat, of which you may 
be tired already. 



LETTER XI 

Enough is as good as a feast. 

YOU are right, my friend, man cannot live by meat alone, but 
needs to complement it by juicy vegetables. Still, I want 
you to be patient for another litde space, and let me tell you 
first of some more mixed dishes, wherein you have combined 
foods which complement each other, and which, therefore, as 
good as represent a whole dinner in themselves, containing all 
the food-matters necessary to sustain a healthy organism. They 
are invaluable where time and money have to be saved. I 
mean the combination of rice, or macaroni, with meat and 
other substances rich in albuminoids. 

You remember that rice contains 8 per cent only of albumi- 
noids, 76.5 of carbohydrates, and i of fat, to which I add here 
the volume of water, 13 per cent. Rice, in con- 
SarkTabout sequcucc, is deficient in albuminoids, which have 

rice, and how ^q ^q rcplaccd by food rich in them, but poor in 

to cook it. 1 ' 1  A 1 

carbohydrates. The ancients knew this. Ask 
your husband, and he will tell you that in the old Indian epos 
"Ramayana" there is mention made of a cousin to our rice 
pudding, dear to our grandmothers and little children. It is 
called there '' krisharah," and was made of rice, milk, sugar, 
and cardamon seeds, boiled thick. We would hardly want to 
make a dinner of it, but what I can highly recommend to you 
for this purpose is the pilaff (or pillaw) of old Persian origin. 
It is to-day one of the best dishes you get in the Orient. 

Before I proceed to explain to you the pilaff, I have to say 

something more about rice itself and the way to cook it. We 

are favored by producing in the United States the best of all 

the different kinds of rice  the Carolina rice. Its seeds are 

84 



LETTER XI 85 

of a pure white, long and narrow, and almost transparent. The 
East India rice is only third in quality, the Itahan rice being 
superior to it. The most inferior of all is the Brazilian rice. 
I advise you by all means to buy only our excellent domestic 
Carolina rice. It is not only better in taste, but also richer in 
nourishment. Now, rice before being cooked has to be washed 
in cold water at least twice, then drained, put in a china vessel 
and scalded by pouring over it some boiling water, in which it 
is to remain for about fifteen minutes ; then drain again. To 
cook it, throw it into boiling water, one quart for one quarter- 
pound of rice, and two teaspoonfuls of salt for this quantity. 
Allow it to boil rapidly for twenty minutes, then drain the water 
off and remove the rice, uncovered, to the back of the stove, 
where it must remain about fifteen minutes to get dry. In 
this way the seeds remain entire, and do not impart to the 
water their mealy substance and sweetness of taste. To see 
whether the rice is sufficiently done, take a seed and press it 
between your fingers ; if it flattens easily, the rice is fit to drain. 
Do not stir it, it would spoil the looks of it ; each seed ought 
to remain separate and intact. Thus prepared, it is ready for 
use in various ways. If you wish to serve the rice cooked 
merely as a vegetable, add to the water in which you boil it a 
piece of butter the size of half an egg for the above quantity. 

For the genuine pilaff you need rice, and either mutton or 
chicken, and you boil the rice in water only five minutes, in 
order to finish it in the juice of the meat. There ^, 

^ The genuine 

is a great variety of recipes to choose from ; I piiaff; and a 
give you first, because very simple, the following 
"Oriental pilaff": 

Take two pounds of mutton (either breast or loin), cut it 
into squares the size of walnuts ; put it in a stew-pan over a 
slow fire ; cover it up tightly and allow it to stew in its own fat 
until brown, adding from, time to time a few drops of water to 
prevent scorching. Add pepper and salt, a little thyme, and 
one onion. Meanwhile parboil half a pound of rice, and, 
after draining it, set away to dry. Remove the mutton when 
quite tender, by means of a skimmer, into another vessel. 



86 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

Keep hot and well covered. Then substitute the rice for the 
meat, and let it stew slowly until done and saturated with the 
juice and fat of the mutton. Serve on a hot dish, the rice first 
and the meat on top of it. 

This same recipe may be followed, by taking chicken instead 
of mutton, with this difference, that the chicken is browned 
first in butter, then stewed by covering it with water, and that 
the thyme is omitted. 

Of all the many variations on the same theme, I give you 
the following one as well worth trying. It is by M. Casimir, 
chef of the IMaison d'Or of Paris, and is called "Turkish pilaff" : 

Take a chicken, divide it into pieces, stew it with butter, 
some chopped onions, thyme, and bay leaves. When it is of a 
Various other dccp ycllow, add a quarter-pound of well-washed 
recipes for pilaff. Carohna rice. Put it over a slow fire, and allow 
the rice to swell and absorb the chicken broth. Add some 
salt, pepper, a pinch of cayenne, and nutmeg. Cut a few par- 
boiled tomatoes into dice, and add them also. Moisten the 
pilaff with good veal consouime and allow the whole to stew 
for twenty minutes longer. Add a piece of good butter and a 
tablespoonful of veal suet, then take out the pieces of chicken 
from under the rice, heap the pilaff on a dish, and put the 
chicken on top. 

You will notice that here the rice is called "pilaff" aside 
from the meat. This agrees with my recollection of the pilaff 
we used to have serv^ed at Athens, which, being in close prox- 
imity to Turkey, is half Oriental in its customs and habits. 
Our pilaff consisted of rice heaped up, dry and yet moist, and 
having the aroma of the meat broth in which it had been 
steeped. It was besides highly colored a deep orange hue, 
which seemed to be the combined effect of tomato and saffron. 
And this puts me in mind of a recipe for " le pilau''' in verse, 
by Mery (I found it in Monselet's "Gastronomic "), which he 
ends by saying :  

"Add last of all, to perfume and color the rice, 
The finest saffron  then of a truth you will have 
A pilaff for Mahomet in Paradise ! " 



LETTER XI 87 

Based on the same principle and similar to the pilaff is the 
Italian rice dish called risotto. 

After the rice has been properly scalded and dried, put it on 
the fire with a piece of butter until it begins to turn slightly 
yellow. Then add to it, httle by little, some Recipe for i 
chicken broth flavored with onion. Wait between '''^^"' 
each addition of broth until the rice has taken up every drop 
of. what has been put on already. Continue this until the rice 
is sufficiently done and fully saturated with the meat-liquor. 
Then mix it with bits of poultry, particularly liver, or whatever 
else of suitable accessories you wish to use. Serve it heaped 
up in a dish and dust over it some grated Parmesan cheese ; or 
you may also mix some of the cheese with the rice at the last 
moment. It always looks well to cut the meat in dice for this 
dish. It is excellent also made with pigeon or sweetbread, 
or both sweetbread and chicken. You may also add to the 
chicken, boiled ham and mushrooms cut either in little squares 
or narrow strips, and then call your rice a la Milaiiaise. The 
most luxurious way would be to add bits of truffles. 

I return, hov/ever, to daily common sense, and give you a 
plain recipe, in case you have some ham left over, and wish to 
use it in a new shape. It is called baked rice. 

Take some boiled rice, let it get cool ; mix it with a table- 
spoonful of melted butter, one or two eggs well-beaten before- 
hand, some boiled ham chopped fine, and some Recipes for 
grated cheese. Put the whole in a buttered form, ^^'^^'^ '''=- 
dust over it some more cheese, and bake it in a good oven. 
After about fifteen to twenty minutes, try with the clean straw 
of a broom, which you stick into the middle of your dish, and 
see whether it comes out without anything adhering to it. If 
so, the ^gg is done ; and when the tgg is done, your dish is 
done. 

You may prepare the above in a still simpler fashion thus : 
Take one quarter-pound of rice, which you boil with a piece of 
butter, and a small onion stuck with one clove. When done 
and dry, remove the onion, and mix the rice by means of two 
silver forks with six ounces of boiled ham, either chopped or 



88 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

cut in little squares (or narrow strips). Mix just before serv- 
ing, set it in the oven for five minutes in order to heat it over, 
and heap it on a hot dish. 

The giblets of poultry, especially the liver, harmonize well 
with boiled rice steeped in butter. They will have to be 
minced, and then mixed with the rice. To vary, you may 
either moisten your rice with tomato sauce, or have the sauce 
served with the rice and giblets separately. 

There are more recipes I might give you, but I will rather 
leave it to your ingenuity to improve on the foregoing, and 
invent your own variations, in order to devote the remaining 
portion of my letter to macaroni, which is as useful in nour- 
ishing, if not quite as digestible, as rice. The best macaroni 
^ , comes from Italy, where it originated and is the 

General re- ' ' ^ 

rr.arks about national dish. The best macaroni, again, in 

Italy is the Neapolitan. I have heard it said 
there is something in the quality of the flour raised in Italy which 
makes the Italian macaroni so superior to that made in other 
countries. Whether this is true or not I do not know, but it is 
a fact that the French and German macaroni does not compare 
with the Italian, and that there is none superior to the Neapoli- 
tan. It is not even higher-priced than its imitations, when 
bought of one of our Itahan grocers. Its percentage of car- 
bohydrates is 76.5, the same as rice, while it is slightly richer 
in albuminoids, containing 9 per cent. In fat it is poorer, 
having only 0.5 per cent. Its percentage of water is the same. 
(13,0) as rice. On account of the lack of ht it is even more 
in need of butter and cheese than rice is. The cheese, espe- 
cially, heightens the nutritive quality of macaroni, by adding 
the casein to its floury substance. La Reyniere, in his famous 
"Almanac of the Kitchen," says that macaroni is one of the 
most nutritious cntrc7Jiets, if neither butter nor cheese is spared. 
Then he adds, that if one must needs be economical he may 
take of Swiss cheese and Parmegiano (Parmesan cheese) half and 
half, since only the keenest gourmets will notice this stratagem. 
When I have macaroni to accompany a roast of beef I use 
cheese but moderately, since the meat supplies abundantly the 



LETTER XI 89 

lacking albuminoids. I prepare it in this case in the plain 
way I learned in Italy when I was young. But first of all I 
have to tell you how to boil the macaroni, be- How to 
cause a great deal depends on this. The cook- '='' "macaroni. 
books generally tell you to boil it for fifteen or twenty min- 
utes, but I have found that this leaves it tough and raw in 
taste ; nor is it the length of time it is boiled in Italy. 
Have plenty of water in a deep pot (two quarts for half a 
pound), add salt enough to have the water taste, let it come to 
a sharp boil ; then put in your macaroni,  which you break 
in pieces as long as you like,  and see that the boihng takes 
place again quickly, and continues without interruption until 
it is done, which will be in not less than three-quarters of an 
hour, if the macaroni is of the large-piped kind ; if of the 
thin kind called spaghetti it will be done in slightly less time. 
I have for this as good an authority as Dumas on my side. 
To test it you have to try a piece of the macaroni between 
your fingers ; if it mashes easily, it is done ; you can also tell 
by the taste. Do not let it boil too long, else it will give its 
best nutritives to the water, getting reduced to an almost worth- 
less paste. For the same reason never wash it before boiling. 
As soon as done, drain on a sieve, and use at once. There 
are ever so many ways in which to serve it, each one more 
appetizing than the other. Macaroni presents, in fact, an 
open field to an inventive genius. Proof of this is that such 
creative spirits as Dumas, Rossini, and others, bestowed their 
tender cares on macaroni, and were as proud of their successes 
in that line as of their masterpieces in literature and music. 
You are waiting, however, for my '' Itahan recipe for plain 
macaroni " :  

After it is boiled and drained put a layer of macaroni 
in a deep dish, heated beforehand ; sprinkle with browned 
butter, and then with Gfrated cheese ; add another  ,. 

' _ c5 y Italian 

layer, sprinkle with butter and cheese, and con- recipe for 

1 11 1   ! x-x macaroni. 

tmue until all the macaroni is used up. Do not 
cover the dish, and serve at once. The proportions are gen- 
erally two ounces of cheese and a quarter-pound of butter for 



90 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

half a pound of macaroni ; but you may take less of butter 
and cheese if you choose. Simple as this recipe is, I have 
rarely found a cook who could prepare the dish as it should 
be. There is judgment required to get the right proportions of 
macaroni, butter, and cheese. If you have not got them in 
your hands and eyes, no recipe can teach you. If to accom- 
pany veal or poultry, which is less nutritious than beef, it is 
best to have a '' macaroni with gravy " (^al si/go). 

After the macaroni is ready for use, return it to the pot 
and add a meat gravy, which is quickest made by reducing to 
about a cupful (by sharp boiling) some broth made of a slice 
each of beef and veal, a few scraps of ham, and a bouquet of 
herbs, one onion, one clove, and a few pepper seeds. Shake 
the macaroni until it is thoroughly moistened with this gravy ; 
then serve in a hot dish, accompanied by grated cheese. 

If a sufficient quantity of a dish of macaroni is left over, 

you will do well to serve it for luncheon the following day in 

this way : Take one-half can of tomatoes and put 

A luncheon them on to boil with one saltspoonful of salt, a few 

dish of , , , T 1 r 1 T 

macaroni black pcppcr sccds, E bouquct of parsley, and one 

si'uce""'*'' small onion stuck with one clove. Let boil for 

fifteen minutes, then add a heaped teaspoonful of 
butter which you have mixed with a teaspoonful of flour and 
formed into a ball ; allow to boil until this is dissolved, which 
is sufficient time to cook the flour. Now pass the whole 
through a wire sieve, and take of it what you need to moisten 
well your macaroni. Heat the sauce over again, then add the 
macaroni. If the latter is in a luaip it will fall apart when 
getting warm in the sauce. Do not let it boil, but set it covered 
up on a hot place until thoroughly heated through. The tomato 
sauce which is left will keep for several days, and is very useful 
also as an addition to either mutton, chicken, rice, or a soup. 

I intended to devote this single letter to rice and macaroni, 
but I see how unjust to my theme I was ; I have only begun on 
the latter, and my time is up for to-day. Still, I consider it so 
important a subject, and I have such delicious recipes in store 
for you, that I will venture to crowd them into my next. 



LETTER XII 

La decouverte d'un mets nouveau fait plus pour le bonheur du genre 
humain, que la decouverte d'une etoile. 

 Brillat-Savarin. 

THERE are accords and discords in the composition of 
human food. As to macaroni, there is a striking harmony 
in its union with the sweetest of butter and the spiciest of 
Parma cheese. Now add to these the white meat and hver 
of chicken, and fresh mushrooms ; moisten the whole with a 
tomato sauce, and you will have almost an ambrosial symphony. 
In this strain, at least, the praises are sounded of the dishes 
of macaroni the great Rossini used to have served to his en- 
thusiastic guests. He, however, when asked about the secret 
of his culinary composition, was said to be mute " like Jupiter 
Olympus." Why macaroni should have such great attractions 
for musical genius I cannot tell, but we learn also that La- 
blache, the great singer, was an expert in macaroni, and that 
he took his secret with him to the grave. Then there was 
Isouard, the composer, who invented the stuffed macaroni 
pipes, and who used to prepare with his own hands the stuff- 
ing, which consisted of beef suet, venison, goose liver, truffles, 
and oysters. Rossini, however, it appears, was not always as 
close-mouthed as stated, for, if we are to believe " Mile. Fran- 
goise," she is in possession of a recipe in Rossini's own hand- 
writing for a dish of macaroni of which she partook at his 
villa at Passy, in company with Auber and Meyerbeer. I give 
you this recipe here as published in her *'One Hundred Rec- 
ipes." It is called sfufato a ntalienne, with macaroni. 

Cover the bottom of a stew-pot with half a pound of 
chopped bacon ; when melted, brown in it four to five large 
onions chopped fine. This done, remove the onions with a 

91 



92 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

skimmer, put them in a teacup, and fill it up with hot water ; 
Recipe for then sct asidc. Take from four to five pounds of 

^ennf^'Jxh^^'" ^he rouud of beef, pound it well on all sides with 
macaroni. ^ wooden mallet, and lard it with square strips 

of bacon half an inch wide, which have been turned over and 
over in a mixture of salt, pepper, three cloves powdered, and a 
minced clove of garlic. When thus prepared, put the beef into 
the hot fat left in the stew-pot, and roast it uncovered on the 
top of the stove, slowly for two hours. It must be of a nice 
brown all over. Then add to the meat the onion water, a 
pound of the knuckle of veal, and one cupful of thick tomato 
sauce ; cover the pot with a sheet of paper, and then with the 
pot-lid, and allow it to continue to stew very slowly for four 
hours longer. Meanwhile boil your macaroni (we will say 
half a pound) in salted water ; drain and serve in layers, each 
of which you cover with part of the gravy left in the stew-pot 
after the meat has been taken out and the fat removed, and 
with plenty of grated Parmesan cheese. Meat and macaroni 
are, of course, served together. 

I give you now the recipe of Alexandre Dumas for " mac- 
aroni a la mhiagere " (of the good housewife) : Boil your 
 . , macaroni for three-quarters of an hour in salted 

Recipe for ^ 

macaroni a la watcr wlth a piccc of buttcr and an onion stuck 
with a clove. Drain well, put it in a casserole 
with a little butter, plenty of grated cheese, half Gruyere and 
half Parmesan, a sprinkle of nutmeg and coarsely ground pepper, 
a few teaspoonfuls of cream, and allow the whole to sauie for a 
couple of minutes ; then serve. 

For '^ macaroni an graiin,'^ fill a buttered dish with the 
above macaroni, dust over it some sifted bread-crumbs and 
Macaroni somc grated cheese, and put it in the oven for fif- 

au gratin. ^^^j^ miuutcs to get light brown on top. Serve in 

the same dish. This is also Dumas' recipe. You can improve 
it by adding some boiled ham chopped fine. 

If you have some meat-liquor to spare, you can enrich both 
the flavor and nutritiousness of your macaroni by using the 
broth instead of water. In that case you put it first in salted 



LETTER XII 95 

I quote this, not to discourage, but rather to spur you on, 
and show what cuhnary genius may accompHsh in any country 
in the world, whether in France, Italy, or America. 

In conclusion to my lessons on rice and macaroni, I have to 
say something special in regard to mushrooms, the flavor of 
which is essential for the production of a dish of About 
either when of the highest order. Mushrooms, if "^^shrooms. 
not found sprouting wild, are the product of painstaking cult- 
ure and are correspondingly expensive to buy. They are 
light, however, in weight, and a quarter of a pound will be 
sufficient for your purposes. The cultivated mushrooms are 
inferior to the wild ones in flavor and aroma, but they have 
this great advantage, that you can be sure they are genuine, 
while in gathering them in copse or field, you are always 
in danger of confounding them with poisonous fungi, unless 
your botanical knowledge and experience are a sufficient 
safeguard. There are a large number of eatable fungi growing 
wild, and their flavor is in most cases particularly spicy and 
agreeable. But in our country we only know the mushroom, 
which is one of the most delicate of eatable fungi. When 
I was in the mountains of Thuringia, Germany, in summer 
time, some little peasant girls came to offer me for sale several 
kinds of strange-looking fungi, which they said were very good 
to eat. On my asking them how they came to know that they 
were not poisonous, they replied : "We learn that from our 
schoolmaster ; he teaches us. He shows us which are the 
good and which the bad ones." My trust in the schoolmas- 
ter's teachings, and the intelligence of the pupils, did not mis- 
lead me ; every one of these fungi was good and wholesome. 

The wild mushroom {Agaric us campestris) is apt to sprout 
up suddenly after a warm shower on meadows where cattle, 
and especially horses, have been pasturing. They also appear 
sometimes on the. grassy bottom of a woodland, where it edges 
out toward the open field. The mushroom comes up like a 
little white ball, or button, and is at its best before it grows up 
to have much of a stalk, which will be in a very short time, 
since in the course of a day it passes through all the stages 



96 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

from childhood to old age. It is all over white at first. Later 
on, a white skin, ringed around the upper part of the stalk, 
frees itself from the edge of the vaulted top, or button, and 
the latter shows a lining of pinkish scales,- which become 
darker and at last black. As the mushroom grows older, the 
outside of the top gradually spreads and flattens out. Its sur- 
face is silky to the touch, and sometimes is covered with tiny, 
hardly perceptible scales. The flesh of the stalk and top 
is of a solid texture and exhales a peculiarly agreeable odor.-^ 
There is a toadstool, Agaricus muscaj'ius, and a globular agaric 
very similar to the mushroom, which are both poisonous. It is 
said that both an onion and a silver spoon will turn black if 
cooked with poisonous fungi ; but I am afraid this is more of a 
legend than of truth. 

The danger of confounding the poisonous and the eatable fungi 
is so much the more to be regretted, since the latter are not 
merely highly palatable, but also very nourishing. They have, 
in fact, pretty much the same nutritive properties as meat. 
On an average, they have as much as 3 to 8 per cent of pure 
nitrogen, besides being rich in alkalies and phosphoric acid. 

The canned mushrooms, which come either in tin or glass, 
are not to be compared with the fresh ones. The most deli- 
How to cook cious way to cook the latter is to put them in a 
mushrooms. sauccpan with a little butter, a taste of vinegar, an 

onion halved, a few pepper seeds, a little salt, and to let them 
stew for just five minutes. They must be served at once, with 
all their juice. If they are to be added to a sauce, they may 
be done in the same way ; and be sure to add their strained 
liquor likewise. 

I have, however, not told you as yet how to prepare the 
mushrooms for cooking^ : Peel off carefully the 

How to pre- . . 

pare mushrooms thin, silky skin covcring them on the outside, and 
or coo mg. scrapc away with a small knife or teaspoon the 

scales visible underneath the top. Now, since mushrooms are 

1 The stalk, which must never be hollow, is eaten as w'ell as the cap when 
young, but had better be omitted after old age has set in. If the mushroom 
has become wormy it is not fit for use. 



LETTER XII 97 

a luxury, we must make the most of them on those rare 
occasions when we indulge in purchasing them. Therefore, 
take the skins and scrapinsfs, wash them in cold 

, . , 1 1 ,  ,  , What to do 

v/ater, dram them, and dry them either m the sun with the skins 
or in the oven after the fire gets low, and put ^" scrapings, 
them away either in a clean paper bag or a glass jar. They 
will serve as a mushroom flavoring for soups, sauces, ragoiUs, 
etc. Soak them in water over night before you use them, and 
then simmer them in the same water for about an hour. 
Strain, and use the water only, which will be of a rich brown 
color. 

Of the truffle, which is the costliest of all fungi, I have not 
much to say, because it is in reality out of the reach of people 
like you and me. Nor need we care ; for the 

ff.' 1  1 1 11 1 About truffles. 

truffles, which have to be brought to our country 
from over the ocean, are generally of a very poor and adulter- 
ated kind. Truffles grow as much as one foot deep underground 
in France, Italy, and Germany, where sometimes dogs and some- 
times pigs are used to '' hunt " them up. Those of Perigord 
in France are considered the best. The recipes say, cook 
them in wine, or in champagne. Brillat-Savarin calls the truffle 
le diamant de Li cuisine, and, to hear him and others, you might 
think that a pheasant and even a turkey are not fit to be eaten, 
unless stuffed with this precious growth. 

Ha^-e I been digressing too much? Or will you charitably 
consider this little deviation as my introduction to the vege- 
tables, of which you will think it high time to speak? 



LETTER XIII 

'Twas thought one hundred years ago 

Good food for pigs (and that was all), 
But now the gentry love them so, 

The big, and eke the small. 

 German Folk Song. 

OUR forefathers, the Anglo-Saxons, knew in the dark ages 
that vegetables by themselves are poor food. They 
liked them best accompanied by milk, butter and cheese  how 
correct the guide of instinct ! In our enlightened times we 
have sure knowledge that vegetables are not able to nourish 
man, unless complemented by other foods which contain what 
they lack. On the other hand, also, vegetables are neces- 
sary in connection with animal substances, since they furnish 
the acids, the alkalies, and mineral matters of which the latter 
contain but a scant measure. Vegetables are, in fact, indispen- 
sable to a healthy diet. Their mild acids act as a dissolvent 
on the albumen, often so hard to digest in its solid form, i.e. 
after beincr cooked ; and g-reen vegetables in 

The value of ^ ? o o ^ 

vegetables their cooliug and refreshing effect are invaluable 

in nutrition. . , ., - -, , , 

as a part of our daily fare. Last, but not least, 
they are pleasing to the eye, as well as to the palate, since with 
their gayer colors they are apt to relieve the sober hues of the 
meats. Therefore, we may gladly be content with their pov- 
erty in albuminoids and carbohydrates  which is accentuated 
by their enormous percentage of water  as long as we do 
not neglect to complement them by those nutrients they lack. 

Of all vegetables, those styled pulse (shelled beans, dried 
peas, lentils) are the most nutritious^  so much so that they 
furnish with very slight additions all that is needed to nourish a 

1 See p. 22. 
98 



LETTER XIII 99 

person. In their unripe state we know them as string-beans 
and green peas. Lentils, on account of their indigestibility, 
we will not take into account here. 

Next to them in rank, but indeed far inferior, come potatoes. 
They are, in reality, as " feeders " not the cheap food they are 
commonly thought to be. This is chiefly owing 

... , r  r About potatoes. 

to their large percentage of water, t.e, refuse. 
They contain 75.5 per cent of it. You see, it leaves but little for 
the food-matter, which consists of 2 per cent albuminoids, 20.7 
per cent carbohydrates, and no fat at all. This poor showing ac- 
counts for the immoderate use of tea or coffee among the poorer 
classes who feed on potatoes. Their craving for the lacking 
nourishment leads them instinctively to make up for it in the 
best way they can. You will know from this, that potatoes 
are not worth their money, unless they are accompanied by 
that kind of food which suppHes the nitrogen they are 
devoid of. Yet despite all this, potatoes are a general favor- 
ite on our tables, and their prosaic nature does not prevent 
their being transformed into a variety of very nice dishes. The 
chapter on potatoes in the literature of cookery is quite a volu- 
minous one, but I intend chiefly to tell you how to treat pota- 
toes in boiling, roasting, and steaming, and then to give you a 
few nice recipes not commonly known. You would smile, very 
likely, at my wanting to teach you how to boil potatoes  
"such a simple affair"  if you had not complained that your 
potatoes were not always v.-hat they should be, som.etimes 
watery instead of dry, and then again soapy rather than mealy. 
Even poor potatoes can be made to be the proper thing if 
properly cooked. Only you must know hoAV. 

To boil potatoes, wash them very clean through several 
waters ; any dirt remaining will enter into the potato through 
the medium of the water. Wash them only just Howtoboii 
before boiling them. Cut away an inch wide of Potatoes. 
the skin around the middle of each potato ; this facilitates the 
escape of their poisonous substance called solanine, which is 
next to the inside of the skin, and is most hurtful in potatoes 
not entirely ripe, or in those sprouting toward spring. It is 



100 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

this poison which causes the obnoxious smell of the water in 
which potatoes have been boiled. Although they get done 
sooner by being put on to boil in cold water, it is advisable to 
put them into hot, or boiling water, because it saves as much 
as possible of their smalb amount of nitrogenous substance. 
Boil them in plenty of water and keep the steam in by covering 
the pot tightly. Add some salt after they are half done. They 
need a half-hour's boihng. Try them by sticking in a fork ; if 
soft all through, remove them at once ; if you allow them to 
boil longer than needful, they will take up more water than they 
need to soften them and will get watery. Pour off all the 
water and put them, with the pot-lid slightly to one side, on a 
hot place for a short while to get entirely dry. Serve them at 
once in a folded napkin. Another way to boil potatoes is to 
peel the potatoes, have them very clean, put them in boiling 
water, salted, and cover them tightly. They will be done in 
about twenty-five minutes. Pour the water off at once ; do as 
before to have them dry. 

To steam potatoes, peel them, and when very clean put them 
How to i^ 3. colander over boiling water; cover tightly 

steam potatoes. y,[^]^ ^ jj^ ^^(^ Icavc them uutil donc. 

To bake potatoes, wash them very clean, dry them with a 
towel and lay them in a good oven. They will need about one 
How to bake hour to get douc. By baking them the water 
potatoes. evaporates, and you get all the nutriment they 

contain. They are also the most wholesome, since in baking 
a part of their starch is already turned into sugar, and thus 
some of the work to be done by digestion is performed before- 
hand. 

For mashed potatoes, take potatoes boiled as in second 

recipe ; add a good-sized piece of butter, some salt, if needed, 

and while mashin<T them, a little hot cream or 

A few van- _ "^ _ ' 

eties of mashed milk from time to time. Work them over and 
^ ^^' over with the masher until quite smooth. If you 

take cream instead of milk, you will need less butter. A very 
wholesome variety is made with the addition of green herbs : 
Take one half of spinach leaves, the other half equal parts of 



LETTER XIII 101 

sorrel, chervil, parsley, and tarragon (the latter is optional) ; par- 
boil them with a little good broth, but so that they keep their 
green color. Then chop them, taking care to save their juices, 
and mix them into your mashed potatoes, in which you omit 
cream or milk. Another variety is. the following : Press your 
mashed potatoes through a colander into the dish they will be 
served in. They are called a la neige. Mashed potatoes 
ought always to be served at once, but most particularly the 
latter kind. 

If you have boiled potatoes left over, a very nice way to use 
them a second time is this : Grate them into the dish they are 
to be served in, put bits of butter here and there. Mashed pota- 
and dust a httle fine salt over them; then put ^o" aw c^ra^vj, 
them in a hot oven for five minutes. 

New potatoes, boiled either in their skins and then peeled, or 
peeled first and then boiled, are excellent served with a plain 
bechamel sauce ^ poured over them. Or chop ., ,, 

 'A few olner 

some parsley, heat it in some melted butter, and varieties of po- 

, .11,, 1  rr 1 ^ T  tato dishes. 

when It bubbles up take it off the fire and pour it 
over the potatoes ready for serving. 

For roasted potatoes, take either small potatoes, raw, of an 
even size, and peel them ; or scoop little balls out of large 
potatoes, with the help of a potato-cutter. Pour ^ow to roast 
boiling water over them, cover them up, and leave po:atoes on 

, , . - . rr-.! 1  1 ^'^P *^ stove. 

them, standing for ten minutes. Ihen drain them, 
put them in a large colander, and put them on a hot place till 
they are dry. Put butter in a pan,  about two ounces for one 
quart of potatoes,  and when very hot put in the potatoes, one 
beside the other. Sprinkle some salt over them. Cover them 
up at first, giving them a toss from time to time. When get- 
ting too hot, leave off the cover, shake them frequently, and 
turn them when brown on the under side. Finish them on a 
slow fire. It will take from one to one and a half hours be- 
fore they are done. If you wish them glazed, dust some fine 
sugar over them after they are tender. These potatoes are 
very nice for garnishing. 

1 See p. 72. 



102 LErrERS to a young housekeeper 

From the untold number of recipes I know of, I select the 
following ones : 

Potato Pudding with Cheese.  Take one quarter-pound of 
potatoes boiled in their skins, peel them, and, when they are 
entirely cold, grate them ; add one ounce of grated cheese, one- 
half ounce of butter, and one-half pint of milk. Put all this 
in a stew-pan, and stir over the fire until it turns into a stiff 
mixture. Then pour it into a deep dish, let it get cold ; add 
the yolk of one egg one scant tablespoonful of cream, and 
beat the whole for a while in one direction. At last add the 
stiif snow of the white of an egg. Butter a mould, dust it over 
with fine cracker-crumbs, fill into it the above, and bake in a 
slow oven. Serve as soon as done. 

Potato Croquettes.  Take butter the size of an egg, beat it 
to a cream ; add gradually two eggs, one teaspoonful of flour, 
one saltspoonful of salt, and six heaped tablespoonfuls of 
grated potatoes which have been boiled and then peeled. 
Form this mass into sausage-shaped croquettes the size of a 
large thumb ; turn them in beaten egg, then in fine bread or 
cracker-crumbs, and fry them in plenty of hot lard until of a 
golden yellow. 

Potato Noodles.  Take six large potatoes, boil them, peel 
them, and place them while hot on a baking-board ; mash 
them with a rolling-pin. To one heaped soupplateful of them 
add a good sprinkle of salt, two tablespoonfuls of flour, and 
one egg. ]\Iake a stiff dough of it, which you manipulate 
with your hands, until a long sausage-like roll about one and a 
half inches in diameter is formed. This you cut into sections 
of a finger's width, and these again you lightly roll with the 
tips of your fingers until the ends are rounded ofl", by which 
process the noodles get slightly longer and thinner. Now take 
a large iron frying-pan, put into it nearly three tablespoonfuls 
of lard, and when very hot put in your noodles side by side ; 
let them get brown first on one side, and then on the other, 
turning them with a fork. Take them out with a skimmer, and 
place them on a piece of blotting-paper before serving. This 
is a favorite dish in the south of Germany, and, when success- 



Potato balloons, k 



LETTER XIII ' 103 

ful, as nice as any Saratoga potatoes. They can also be warmed 
ov^er the following day by j^utting them in a hot oven for a few 
minutes before serving. 

Another delightful dish of the same origin is the following, 
called " potato balloons." Make a thin batter of two cupfuls 
of flour, half a pint of milk, the yolks of two eggs, 
and a saltspoonful of salt. Beat it well ; then add 
six potatoes which have been boiled the day before and grated 
while warm. Add also at the last moment the stiff snow of 
the two whites of egg. Take a spoonful at a time to drop into 
plenty of boiling hot lard. It will form into balls, which are to 
turn to a deep yellow before you remove them with a skimmer 
to be served immediately. 

I never throw away a single potato which is left over ; there 
is always some use for it. If even one or two only are left, I 
grate them and use them to thicken a soup. If How-to use po- 
more, they can be sauteed the next morning for ^^^^ '^ ''^^- 
breakfast, or cut into dice and heated up with hot milk, to 
which some salt and a piece of butter has been added. By put- 
ting them in a hot oven and allowing the milk to be partly 
absorbed by the potatoes, this makes a very good plain 
dish. 

Another way is to transform them into '^potatoes a la maifre 
d'' hotel"" : Cut your boiled potatoes into slices, fry them in hot 
lard, then put them into a stew-pan with some Potatoes a /a 
fresh butter, chopped parsley, salt, pepper, and a "^^''^'^^ d'hotei. 
few squeezes of lemon juice. Let the whole get hot, and leave 
it on the fire until well commingled ; then add a very little hot 
cream, and serve. This' latter is Alexander Dumas' recipe, 
which warrants its excellence. You can also do the way I 
learned in Switzerland and have " potatoes with cheese." Slice 
some potatoes rather thin. Put them in layers into Potatoes with / 
a buttered dish, alternating with layers of thinly '^^^^s- 
sliced cheese, finishing with the latter. Put small pieces of 
butter on top. Bake in a slow oven until of a light brown. 
The cheese underneath ought to be no more than just 
dissolved. 



104 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

If you wish for one reason or another to render a dish of 
potatoes more nourishing than ordinary, select eitlier one of the 
two following recipes :  

Potatoes stewed in Milk.  Peel raw potatoes and cut them 
into slices ; put them in a saucepan, cover them up with milk, 
add salt (a teaspoonful to a quart of milk), and boil them slowly 
until done. Be careful not to let the slices drop to pieces. 
^Meanwhile take some butter  two ounces (or size of an egg), 
for two pounds of potatoes  add to it half an onion (whole), 
and half a tablespoonful of flour ; mix over the fire, and when 
quite smooth add the milk strained from the potatoes. Cook, 
while stirring, for about five minutes, when you will have a 
thickish sauce which you strain through a sieve over your po- 
tato slices. Should your sauce be too thick, add a little more 
milk, and some salt if necessary. Place the whole over the fire 
once more, and let it get hot, without boiling, shaking the con- 
tents of the saucepan every few seconds. 

Potatoes in Broth.  Take a neck piece of beef weighing 
about a pound and a half. Put it on to cook with boiling water, 
and treat it the way I have taught you.^ When done, put it in 
another pot with a httle of its liquor, and keep it warm. Have 
ready some potatoes boiled in their skins, but not quite done. 
Peel and slice them, and put them into the beef broth with the 
addition of a few onions thinly sliced (the latter are not 
essential and can be omitted). Cook them until entirely 
done, when add some minced parsley. Do not stir, but 
toss the stew-pot so as to mix the contents. Serve with some 
of the broth poured over the potatoes. Surround the latter 
with the boiled beef sliced down. Have the dish accom- 
panied by French mustard and cucumber pickles. 

Both these recipes are well to remember on days when not 
much attention can be paid to cooking. But the best of the 
kind is the following, which in regard to nutrients gives you in 
itself all that is required for a whole meal. Dr. Hermann 
Klencke, from whose book on domestic chemistry I take the 

1 See p. 17. 



LETTER XIII 105 

recipe, says this dish represents " nourishment of the highest 
order." To prepare it, you will have to take a stew- 
pot with a well-fitting lid, which you make air- and representing 
steam-tight by tying a folded and dampened towel ^g"^'^'^^ 
right over and around the crack between pot and 
lid, closing it up thereby completely. Before you do this, put 
into your pot alternate layers of sliced raw potatoes and slices 
of uncooked mutton. Sprinkle each layer with a little salt, 
pepper, and minced shallots (or onions, but shallots are pref- 
erable). Begin with a layer of potatoes and finish in the same 
way when about three inches from the top, to leave room for the 
swelling of the food. Finally add a scanty gill of cold water, 
and close your pot as described. Put the latter into another 
and larger pot in which a sufficient am.ount of water is boiling 
to reach up to three-quarters of the height of the inside pot. 
Now cover up the larger pot with a lid. Let it remain boiling 
from two and a half to three hours, then take out the inside 
pot, and allow it to get cooled off somewhat before removing 
towel and lid. If you should open the pot at once, before the 
steam had time to condense and form itself into a liquid, a 
large part of the food-aroma would escape with the steam, and 
the food-matter would become dry. The contents of the pot, 
when served, w^ill contain all the nutrients of meat and potatoes, 
without loss of anything. Each will complement the other, and 
satisfy both palate and appetite. The juice surrounding the 
dish is the pure juice of the meat, and better than any broth 
can be. 

With this plain but excellent dish I will close my lesson on 
potatoes ; for I know how anxious you are to have a variety 
of vegetables from which to choose for your table. 



LETTER XIV 



Sameness in one's food brews mischief. 



 Dr. Wiel. 



I WILL now tell you of vegetables more delicate, which are 
chiefly valuable on account of the various mineral matters 
Vegetables and ^^^ alkalics Contained in them. To give you a 
their food-values, comparative idea of their food-values, I will formu- 
late for reference a table of those vegetables which have been 
analyzed. 



Green Peas 

String Beans (very young) 
String Beans (older) . . 

Kohlrabi 

Cauliflower 

Spinach 

Asparagus 

Cabbage 

Carrots (young ones) . . 
Turnips 



Albumi- 
noids. 



6.4 

5- 5 
3- o 
3- o 

2-5 

2.5 
2. o 
2. o 

I. o 
I. o 



Fais. 



o- 5 
0.5 
o. o 
o. o 
o. o 

o. 5 
o. o 
o. o 
o. o 
o. o 



Carbo- 
hydrates. 



12. 

7. 



6. 5 

8. o 

4. 5 

6. o 



Water. 



78. o 
84. o 

89. o 
86. o 
91. o 
88. o 
94. c 

90. o 
88. o 
89-5 



Cellu- 
lose. 



1. o 

2. o 



Mineral 
Matters. 



I. o 



1. c 

2. O 



I. O 



If you deduct the percentage of water all these vegetables 
contain, you will know how small the amount is of their dry 
substance in every hundred parts, and how necessary it is to 
make good their shortcomings by combining them with com- 
plementing nutrients. The elements of which they are com- 
posed have to be economized so much the more because of 
their small proportions. Their relatively large percentage of 
mineral matters is most essential for supplying vital power 
to the blood, and helping thus to restore day by day the waste 
106 



LETTER XIV 107 

of our system. Therefore, like meat, they cannot afford to lose 
any of their nutritive substances. Consequently we must not 
keep them soaking in water, nor put them on to boil in cold 
water. In regard to onions, cabbage, and string-beans, it is 
advisable to throw away the first water, after they have boiled 
up once or twice ; it renders them more wholesome, inasmuch 
as these vegetables contain some sulphuric gases inimical to 
digestion, which thus are got rid of. In all available cases, 
however, I am in favor of serving the vegetables with the liquid 
they are cooked in, for only in this way can we get the whole 
benefit of their dehcate and volatile mineral constituents, and 
preserve their original and characteristic flavor. 

The worst vegetables in the world are those prepared by 
English rules, when they are boiled in water until done, and 
the latter is thrown away, after having extracted all the good 
the vegetable food contained, leaving it insipid and flat-tasting. 
It was this style of vegetables which made a German author, 
Ludwig Boerne, who was condemned to a life of exile, say 
that they reminded him of Etruscan vases, the designs of which 
showed only the first and rudest principles of art  an expres- 
sion almost too good for that sort of misused food. 

We will see now how to make the best of it. You notice 
that among the vegetables enumerated in our table, green 
peas make the best show as to nutrients. They are also the 
most dii^estible of them all, if not too old. In 

About peas, 

our country they are generally too mature when and how to 
picked for use. To get the best they contain 
and have them tender, cook them as follows : After they are 
rinsed in cold water put them in a saucepan in which a little 
butter has been melted ; let them stew for several minutes, 
shaking them a few times to prevent their sticking to the bottom ; 
sprinkle with a little salt ; add some boiling water from time 
to time  not more than just enough to keep them moist. 
This water must be for the most part absorbed, and the rest 
served with the peas. If thrown away, the best of the latter 
would be thrown away with it. Shake them occasionally, to 
have all the peas come in contact with the liquid. They 



lOS LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

ought to be done in fifteen to twenty minutes, if young. If 
your water is hard, add a saltspoonful of baking-soda to it in the 
beginning. Serve the peas with a piece of fresh butter on top. 

I will mention here that, in order to preserve the beautiful 
green of peas, string beans, spinach, etc., it is necessary to cook 
them uncovered, and to add salt to them as soon as put on 
to boil. 

Green peas need no accessories of parsley or mint, as French 
and German cookery prescribe. They are of such fine and 
delicate flavor that any kind of spice, be it exotic or herby, 
would merely deteriorate them. 

It is a curious circumstance, which might interest you, that, 
although the ancients knew them as pulse, peas were unknown 
for culinary purposes in their green state until the time of 
Louis XIV., when they at once enraptured the court circles. 
Madame de Maintenon writes at the time (1696) : "The sub- 
ject of peas continues:  the impatience to eat them; the 
pleasure to have eaten them ; and the delight to eat them 
again, are the three points our princes talk about for the last 
few days. It is a fashion, a craze ! " 

They have continued favorites ever since, and deserve it. 
Now let us see what they agree with and what are their com- 
plements. They assort with asparagus, cauliflower, young 
squash, and young carrots, in which they find increase of their 
mineral and other values, besides harmonizing with them in 
taste ; while lamb, mutton, and poultry not only are in harmony 
with, but complement peas in regard to fats and albuminoids. 
To obtain a dish of almost perfect composition you might do 
as follows :  

Take a round platter, place in the middle of it a fine head of 

cauliflower boiled in salted water with the addition of a piece 

of butter the size of half an egg. Encircle it with 

composed ^ wrcath of green peas, which in turn you sur- 

of vegetables rouud by a rim of boiled rice. Put outside of it 

and meat. -' 

a circle of boiled carrots cut into wheels, and 
surround the whole either with lamb chops, or stewed sweet- 
breads. 



LETTER XrV 109 

Next to green peas come string beans when quite young, which, 
however, if maturer, are surpassed in their nutritive quaU- 
ties by kohlrabi,  a vesfetable introduced from _, . ^ 

-' ' o string beans, 

Germany. Cook string beans thus : String them and how to 

- ,,..-. , , cook them. 

from each end twice, i.e. four tunes altogether. 
For nothing is more disagreeable than to eat beans not 
entirely freed of their strings. Wash them very well through 
several waters, rubbing them through your hands to get rid 
of parasites which are apt to cling to them, and are invisible 
to the naked eye. This done, you cut them slantwise into 
pieces an inch wide, and parboil them as stated before ; then 
drain and put them into boiling mutton or beef broth enough 
to cover them. They need more or less boiling according to 
their kind or age ; not less than one hour. Some need two 
hours, some even more ; but I would say the latter are not 
fit to eat because too hard to digCot. By slow boiling and 
evaporation the most of the liquid ought to disappear; the rest 
must be served with the beans. They need more fat than 
peas, not having any themselves. Serve them with beef, mut- 
ton, or pork. 

In the tables at my disposal some of our most favored vege- 
tables are missing. I cannot, therefore, give you the nutritive 
values of Lima beans and some others, but I judge from the 
mealiness of the Lima bean that it must have a large percentage 
of carbohydrates. Cook them in boiling water, slightly salted. 
Do not take any more water than will cook them. How to cook 
and when tender add a little hot milk, in which a ^"^^ '^'^^"^ 
good-sized piece of butter has been melted. Add some salt. 
Leave them standing in a hot place for a short while to get 
saturated with the milk. 

Kohlrabi are only fit to eat when quite young ; later they con- 
tain much fibrous matter which is indigestible. Peel them, 
halve them, cut them into thin sHces, parboil in How to cook 
salted water, and drain them. Stew them slowly ^^^^^^^- 
in some light-colored broth. When they begin to get tender 
add the heart of the green leaves growing at the top of the 
kohlrabi, after cutting them into shreds. They are of fine 



110 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

flavor, and will color the dish slightly green. When done, 
drain the vegetable and use the liquid in which they have 
cooked for a bechai7iel sauce, which you pour over your kohl- 
rabi. Let them get right hot in it, and serve. 

Taking into consideration the downward ratio of nitrogenous 

substance  which is the guiding standard  I have next to 

mention spinach, then cauliflower, cabbage, aspar- 

About spinach, ^ . , 

agus, carrots, and turnips. Ihe two latter show 
more carbohydrates  owing to the sugar contained in them  
than any of the foregoing, except green peas. Spinach is a 
highly valuable vegetable because of its mineral matters, espe- 
cially iron and lime. Therefore, you must be most careful not 
to waste its precious juices by throwing away the water it is 
cooked in, or pressing its leaves before chopping it fine. Some, 
indeed, prefer not to chop it at all, and they are no doubt 
right ; but table fashion will have it chopped. 

For di puree of spinach, pick the leaves over carefully, omit- 
ting the coarse and thick-ribbed ones ; wash them several times, 
y^ _y^gg throw them in plenty of boiling water, well salted ; 

of spinach. leavc them in a few moments, then drain, and 

cool them off in cold water, from which drain them again. Now 
chop them very fine in a wooden bowl. Take a saucepan, put 
in a piece of butter, and when hot add to it your spinach. Stew 
very gently in its own juice, merely adding a little boiling 
water, if necessary, to prevent scorching. When done, which 
will be in about one-half hour, the spinach ought to have suffi- 
cient consistency to serve it heaped up in a dish, or to use it 
as a garnish around any kind of meat. 

If spinach is served as a course by itself, a garnish of croutons^ 
or quarters of hard boiled eggs, or both is in place. A puree 
Spinach as an of spinach is Suitable for an entremets  a course 
eniremeu. bctwecn the roast and dessert  and as such is 

nice accompanied by either poached eggs, or pancakes ^ rolled up. 

A cupful of spinach puree left over will furnish you with 
material for a spinach pudding on the following day. 

1 See p. 169. 



LETTER XIV 111 

Take butter the size of half an egg, and when melted and 
hot, add to it a slice of onion and some parsley, both minced ; 
one stale French roll, of which the crust is a spinach 
grated off, and which has been soaked in milk p^^^mg. 
and pressed dry. Mix well over a moderate fire, and let 
it stew for about five minutes. Have some remnants of 
cooked meat chopped fine  half a cupful is sufficient  
and beat the yokes of four eggs until hght. Add both meat 
and yokes to the foregoing. Taste it, and see that it is salted 
just right. Finally, add the whites of the four eggs beaten to 
a stiff snow.^ Put the whole into a well-buttered pudding 
form, and either steam it, covered up in a vessel with boihng 
water for one hour, or bake it in a moderate oven until by 
inserting a broom-straw nothing will adhere to the latter when 
pulled out. 

This excellent dish requires a sauce for serving with it. A 
white sauce with a flavor of lemon juice answers the purpose. 
An addition to it of mushrooms is, of course, better. Still 
better is a thickening of coarsely chopped chicken, cooked 
beforehand. 

Spinach will bear warming up the next day ; although I do 
not quite agree with the French canon, who ate spinach only after 
it had been cooked up for six consecutive days, with the addi- 
tion, each time, of a fresh lump of butter. This canon's name 
was Chevrier, who also invented the hermetically closed stew- 
pot. 

A very pleasant combination is that of spinach and sorrel ; 
especially, in spring, when the young leaves of the latter are 
not as acid as the later growth. Sorrel by itself is a delight- 
fullv refreshiner vegetable for those who hke the ^ 

Sorrel. 

acidity of it. You treat it exactly like spinach, but 

to bind it, add the yoke of an egg beaten up in a little cream, 

at the last moment. 

To boil cauliflower, put it upside down into cold water strongly 
salted ; this destroys the insects apt to vegetate between the 

1 See p. 183. 



112 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

roses or flowerets. Leave the head in but a short time, then 
rinse it off, and put it into boiUng water shghtly salted, top 
downward. See that it is fully covered with water, 
and boiling continuously. It will be done in 
twenty to thirty minutes. It gets tasteless if you cook it after 
it is tender, which you can test with a larding-needle thrust 
through the middle. Lift it out carefully, and place it on a 
platter, then pour over it a bechamel sauce for which you use 
some of the water it was boiled in. Or you may use the fol- 
A sauce for lowiug saucc : For a small head of cauhflower 

cauliflower. ^^^ j^^jf ^ pij^|. q{ ^j-jg water in which it was 

boiled (or the same amount of veal broth) ; add to it two 
ounces of butter, a teaspoonful of flour, a taste of nutmeg, and 
the yokes of two eggs beaten beforehand. Stir the whole over 
the fire until it just comes to a boil, and no longer. Continue 
to stir for several minutes after you have taken it off the fire, 
to avert all danger of curdling. 

To cook cauliflower with cheese, take a dish and moisten 
it with a thick bechamel sauce ; dust over it some grated 
Parmesan cheese ; then arrange on it a layer of 
g^'^im, Tith large flowerets of cauliflower boiled beforehand, 

'^'^^^^' and spread over them more of the sauce, and 

cheese thickly sprinkled ; put in a hot oven until of a golden 
yellow, and serve in the same dish. 

A head of cauliflower divided into its different roses before 
Cauliflower, being boiled, and then served on the same dish 

with lobster. ^y\,^ boilcd lobstcr, produces a good efl"ect, and 

tastes well. Serve it with an herb sauce,^ to which add the 
minced coral of the lobster. 

Cauliflower served with either pigeons, chickens, veal cut- 
lets, or roast beef, is a good combination. 

To prepare asparagus for boiling, shave ofl" with a sharp 

knife the fine outside fibres, beginning below the 

sparagu . head downward, and cut away the woody end 

below. Do it just before needed. Rinse in cold water, then tie 

1 See p. 74. 



LETTER XIV 113 

the stalks together by the dozen, and put them in plenty of 
boiling water slightly salted. They ought to be done in twenty 
minutes. If left boiling too long, they will harden, and, more- 
over, lose their flavor together with their delicate mineral mat- 
ters, which render asparagus so valuable. Remove the strings 
after they are placed on the dish they are to be served in. 
Have with them some melted butter, or a bechamel sauce 
made slightly acid, and thickened with the yoke of one or more 
eggs. A satice Hollandaise^ agrees well with them. But 
whatever sauce you make, always use for it some of the water 
in which the asparagus was boiled, because it absorbs part of 
its flavor and wholesome properties. 

There is a great deal of difference in asparagus, for it is 
very particular as to the soil in which it grows. It likes 
sandy soil much better than clayey soil, and fashions itself 
accordingly. In southern Germany the asparagus of Ulm on 
the Danube is especially famous ; but at the town itself the 
highest priced is that grown on the left bank of the river, 
because superior to the asparagus grown on the opposite bank. 

When asparagus begins to appear, and is high in price, the 
thin kind, which is cheapest, may be appropriated with advan- 
tage for a dish of asparagus en petits pois (in shape Asparagus e/7 
of peas). Cut the asparagus into sections as large P-'^'^-' P'^'^- 
as full-grown peas. Cook them in salted water, drain them 
when tender, and take the water to make a sauce in this way : 
IVIelt a tablespoonful of butter, mix with half a tablespoonful of 
flour, to which add, when bubbling, asparagus water sufficient 
to make a slightly thick sauce. Add the yolks of one or two 
eggs at the last moment. Pour this sauce over your asparagus, 
and allow it to stand in a warm place covered up for about 
ten minutes before serving. 

Asparagus assorts best with the more delicate kinds of meat, 
but it is also acceptable with boiled ham. 

Among the cabbages, Brussels sprouts are the aristocratic 
branch of the family. They are a very sweet and delicate 

1 See p. 131. 



114 LETl'ERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

vegetable. Take the little roses, rinse them in cold water, and 
throw them into boiling water salted. Let them boil up once, 
Brussels ^.nd no morc. Drain and pour cold water over 

P^"^- them ; then melt a small piece of butter, in which 

you stew them gently until tender. If they should get too dry, 
add a very little beef broth. They go with any kind of dark 
meat, as well as with boiled ham or tongue. They are deli- 
cious, accompanied by boiled chestnuts, either as 2, puree or 
whole as a garnish.^ 

To boil cabbage, cut the heads into quarters, taking out 
the stalks inside. Treat it like cauliflower in cleansing it. 
Boil it in broth ; that obtained from pork is the 
best, for cabbage needs plenty of fat to make 
it digestible. The most economical way is to stew it with ribs 
of pork, covering both meat and cabbage with boiling water, and 
cooking them gently for two hours, allowing the water gradually 
An economical to bc absorbcd and serving the pork on top of the 
^^^^- cabbage. By adding a few small sausages, which 

also garnish well, this dish, followed by a pudding or some 
sweet pancakes, is quite a dinner for days when time is precious. 

For cabbage, au gratin, I use what is left over, and put it in 
a buttered china dish ; then I pour over it a white sauce mixed 
Cabbage v^^lh. the yolk of an ^gg. On top of it I put a thin 

au gravn. layer of fine bread or cracker-crumbs, over which 

I dust some grated cheese. A few flakes of butter distributed 
over the whole, finish the dish, which has to be put in a hot 
oven to get brown. It is served in the same dish it is baked in. 

A more delicate kind, and much more to be recommended, 
is Savoy cabbage. It is especially good prepared in the follow- 
ini< wav :  

Take young and firm heads, and after removing the coarser 
outside leaves, cleanse them well, and parboil them. Then 
Savoy cabbage cut them in halvcs, take out the woody insides, 
^'^^ "" and fill them with rice cooked in boihng water for 

five minutes. Put a good-sized piece of butter in a stew-pan, 

1 See pp. 125, 126. 



LETl'ER XIV 115 

and when hot put in your halves, rice uppermost, side 
by side. Put some bits of butter on top of the rice, 
and dust over the whole a little salt. Let it stew, with 
the addition of some beef broth, until quite tender, then 
serve carefully, either by itself, or around your dish of 
meat. 

To prepare a stuffed head of cabbage is more troublesome, 
but pays well. For it you may take either kind, but Savoy cab- 
bage is preferable. Take a large head. Boil it 

... , , -11 -11 Stuffed cabbage, 

whole m salted water until the outside leaves get 
tender. Then pour off the water, taking care not to injure the 
head. Place it on a meat-board, and carefully unfold the leaves 
 turning them backward leaf by leaf, until you get to the 
heart. Remove it as well as the hard inside part. Chop the 
tender leaves of the heart, and add to the stuffing, which you 
make of two ounces of fat pork and two ounces of beef, both 
chopped hne (any remnants of meat partly fat will do) ; one 
ounce of butter beaten to a cream ; ^ the yolks of two eggs ; a 
teaspoonful of minced onion ; a scant teaspoonful of salt ; the 
same of minced parsley ; one French roll soaked in milk and 
pressed dry. Mix the egg and bread, and add them to the 
butter ; add the other ingredients last, and heap up the whole 
in the centre of the cabbage head. Turn back now each leaf 
in its proper place, thus enveloping the stuffing and reshaping 
the entire head. Now take a baking-pan, heat in it a piece of 
butter the size of an egg, place the cabbage in it, and bake in 
a moderately hot oven. Baste from time to time, and add a 
little water when there is danger of scorching. It will take 
from two to three hours to get done. Serve on a round 
platter, and pour over it the gravy which will be in 
the bottom of the pan. Besides, you may serve with this 
dish a white sauce, made slightly piquant by the addition 
of a small amount of anchovy paste and lemon juice. 
The head is to be carved in sections cut, like a cake, from 
the centre towards the outer circumference. 

1 See p. 183. 



116 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

The famous "Bombe a la Sardanapale^^^ which was served 
one day to Frederick the Great, of Prussia, by his chef Sieur 
Noels, was nothing more nor less than a stuffed cabbage head, 
with slices of cooked ham and bacon underneath and on 
top of it, and a small sausage folded up in each leaf. The 
king was as great a gourmet as he was a great leader, 
and felt so delighted with this surprise prepared by his 
chef, that he wrote and dedicated to him a poem of 137 
lines. 

Red cabbage is finer and more delicate than the white kind. 

In Germany it is cooked in the way which follows, when it is 

served with partridsres in their proper season. It 

Red cabbage. . , i  , i , ,-11 

IS very good, also, with roasted pork, or boiled 
ham. Cut a large head, or two small ones, into quarters, 
and after removing the hard parts, shred fine with a sharp 
knife. Put it in a stew-pan, in which a tablespoonful of lard, 
or the same amount of pork-drippings, has been heated. 
Cover it up, and let it stew over a moderate fire, shaking it and 
tossing it from time to time, for half an hour. Then add half 
a cupful of beef broth, and an hour later a wineglassful of cider- 
vinegar and twice as much claret. Add also a teaspoonful of 
salt and the same amount of granulated sugar, and continue 
stewing until quite tender. The longer you boil this dish of 
cabbage, the better it will be ; only be sure and do not add 
the vinegar and wine too long before serving, since they lose 
by cooking. If you prefer not to use wine, you will have to 
double the quantity of vinegar, and increase that of sugar also. 
The claret, however, gives this dish a special flavor, which is 
very pleasant. I can also recommend adding a Baldwin or 
Spitzenberg apple  peeled, cored, and quartered  half an 
hour before the cabbage is done. 

In many families the great objection to boiled cabbage 
is the odor which it is apt to send to the upper regions 
of the house. I have already mentioned that cabbage gets 
rid of some of the obnoxious gases if parboiled before cook- 
ing it. But, to fully prevent any odor penetrating further 
than the pot in which the cabbage is being cooked, place 



LETTER XrV 117 

over it a towel folded treble or quadruple. I can vouch for 
its eiiectiveness. 

Here I am at the end of my letter  and a whole string of 
vegetables waiting for me to discourse on. You have, however, 
plenty on hand now, to secure a variety for your table until I 
continue the theme in my next. 



 



LETTER XV 

Dis-moi ce que tu mange, et je te dirai ce que tu es. 

 Brillat-Savarin. 

I BEGIN at once with the root vegetables, which contain 
the least nourishment. Still, they come in for theis share 
of usefulness also. Carrots make the best show among 
them. Next I would place salsify or oyster plant, 

Carrots. i  i   i , ^ ^ r ^^ , 

which IS certamly the most agreeable of all the 
roots. Carrots are generally discarded as a vegetable by 
themselves, but if treated in the proper way they are both 
palatable and wholesome as long as they are not too old. 
Scrape them clean with a sharp knife, and rinse them in water. 
If quite young cut the carrots into httle wheels, but if grown 
large cut them first into thin wheels and then into narrow 
strips. Put them into boihng water, barely enough to cover 
them, and add a piece of butter as soon as they begin to boil. 
Allow the liquid to soak in gradually. They will be done in 
an hour's time, if young. Add some minced parsley and 
serve. You may cook turnips in the same way as carrots, merely 
cutting them thicker ; or stew them in mutton broth, leaving out 
the butter, and omit in any case the parsley. To press the water 
out of boiled turnips is to rob them of all the good which is 
in them. They are about the poorest vegetable as it is, and 
though for the sake of variety I allow them on my table, it is only 
when cooked in the following manner, which I learned in Italy. 
Cut them into slices, stew them in water, adding 
a little butter and salt. When tender drain off 
what liquid is left and use it for a sauce, which you make of a 
heaped teaspoonful of flour and the same of butter. Now 
grease a dish, put in a layer of the sliced turnips, dust with 
pepper and spread some of the sauce over it, then another 
ii8 



LETTER XV 119 

layer of turnips, and so on until they are used up. Dust some 
grated Parmesan cheese over the top, and put flakes of butter 
here and there. Bake in the oven until light brown and serve 
in the same dish. 

I have also eaten cucumbers cooked in this way, and found 
them very good. They were quartered and had the seeds 
taken out. 

Salsify is invaluable in winter, when fresh vegetables are 
scarce. It is both delicate and easily digested. One might 
call it the winter asparagus. To have it of a pure 

  1 T ^ ^ ^ ^  ^ Salsify. 

white, throw it into cold water made slightly acid 
by the addition of some vinegar. Add also a teaspoonful of 
flour to it. Before you do this, however, you have to scrape 
off the black outside. Cut the roots into pieces one inch long. 
Leave them in the above water for a little while before you 
throw them into the boihng water. To make saisify a la 
"salsify a la poulette,^'' boil your salsify in water p^^'^^^^- 
with a little salt and butter. It needs one hour to get tender. 
Then drain and put in a sauce made of chicken broth and 
white 7'oux in the usual way. At the very last add the yellow 
of two eggs, beaten up with some cream. A slight addition of 
lemon juice is an improvement. Have the same quantity of 
small pieces of boiled chicken as you have of salsify, and add 
it also to the sauce. You can, of course, leave out the chicken 
if you want to use it for something else. Or you can make 
your sauce with cream instead of broth, and leave out the 

^%%' 

You know that salsify fritters are similar to fried oysters in 
taste, hence the name of oyster plant. They are, of course, 
not nearly as wholesome as the vegetable when 
merely boiled or stewed, yet, if saute^A with care, ^ ^' ^ 
they are not any more risky for a sound digestion than other 
food cooked in fat. For fritters, boil the salsify until soft ; 
drain, and mash it with the addition of a lump of butter, salt 
and pepper. (To a dozen roots take a tablespoonful of butter.) 
Form into small cakes, turn them in flour, and fry them in 
butter or lard. 



120 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

The root vegetables all need to be complemented by fat 
meat. 

A highly medicinal root is celery, i.e. the sonp or turnip- 
rooted celery. According to Liebig, it contains the astonishing 
amount of sixteen to twenty per cent of mineral 
eeryroo. mattcrs and alkalies in one hundred parts of its 

dry substance. Its taste is a peculiarly spicy one, very agreeable 
to some persons and distasteful to others. It is certainly very 
wholesome when young, and devoid of coarse woody fibres. To 
eat celery root as a vegetable, have it well scraped and cleaned 
and thrown into the boiling liquor for soup, to which it will 
impart its flavor at the same time. When nearly tender remove 
from the soup-pot, cut into slices, and put them to stew in 
either some broth or cream (a gill to two good-sized roots). 
If cream is used a teaspoonful of butter, mixed with a little 
flour, will have to be added. Ser\'e with the liquid around 
them. 

Parsnips, like carrots, contain a good deal of sugar. In the 

case of carrots, parsley mollifies their sweetish taste ; parsley, 

however, is out of harmony with parsnips : they 

Parsnips. , ' , ,  r i  

need cream, and are better m taste for bemg 
boiled in slightly salted water  which throw away  until 
tender. Then, prepare a cream or plain bechamel sauce, and 
allow the parsnips, which you have cut either into wheels or 
thick strips, to be steeped in this sauce for a while before serv- 
ing. Parsnips are best, perhaps, as a fritiire} Or, take one 
A dish of parsnip, one small celery root, and half a dozen 

mixed roots. salsify Toots ; cut them into even dice and stew 

with a piece of veal and a few slices of salt pork or bacon, in a 
little water. Sen-e the veal in the middle of a dish, and the 
vegetables around it. The juice remaining in the stew-pot will 
serve to be poured over the whole. A squeeze from a sour 
orange added to it will improve this dish. 

The root containing the most sugar is the beet. There are 
several varieties, of which I prefer for a vegetable the dark red 

1 See p. 77, 



/ 



LETTER XV 121 

kind. When quite young they are very tender and delicious. 
Later in the year and in the winter the large red beets will 
make a nice salad. To preserve their color, you 
must prevent their " bleeding " by carefully keeping 
intact their skin, and not interfering with their tops and tails 
before they are cooked. Wash them very clean, put them into 
plenty of salted and boiling water, and let them boil for one to 
three hours, according to size. Test one of your roots with a 
skewer to see if tender to the core. Drain, peel, place in a 
hot dish, and pour over them some melted butter. Slice them 
if they are not very young and small. In Italy they put the 
beets in the oven after the bread has been baked, and leave 
them in until tender. They are best in this v/ay. 

I will say a few words here about sweet potatoes. I have 
not seen them analyzed, but judge from their components of 
starch and sugar that their nutritive properties 

. , , TIT  1 Sweet potatoes. 

might be slightly superior to the common or 
white potato. It is to be regretted, therefore, that they are 
heavy to digest, and, in the same measure, decrease in value as 
food ; for only in so far as we digest food are we nourished by 
it. Boil or bake sweet potatoes as directed about w4iite pota- 
toes. They need, however, a longer time to get done. They 
are nice cut into slices lengthwise  after being boiled  and 
saute^A until light browm. 

Green corn and egg-plant ought both to have good nourish- 
ing properties, if we consider how they satisfy one's appetite. 
The former, after being freed of its husks and 
tassels, is done in fifteen to twenty minutes after 
being put into boiling water salted, and allowed to boil unin- 
terruptedly. 

For corn fritters  which also taste a good deal like fried 
oysters  grate the green corn off the cob, and for half a pint 
of it take the yolk of one eg2f, a heaped table- 

c ^ c a 1 , c\ c 1 Corn fritters. 

spoontul ot rlour, a tablespooniul of cream, and a 

saltspoonful of salt. Mix well, and saute in lard, dropping into 

it a tablespoonful at a time. 

For canned corn take half a cupful of cream (or milk) for 



\' 



122 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

half a can. When it boils, add butter the size of half an egg, 
mixed with a teaspoonful of flour. When dissolved pour it 
over the corn, which you heat in a separate sauce-pan. Let 
the whole simmer together for a few minutes. 

In summer, when you do not care for much meat, egg-plant 
furnishes you with a nice breakfast dish. Cut it into slices 
Egg-plant, about 3. quarter of an inch thick ; sprinkle each 

sauieed. slicc with salt ; heap up the slices, one above the 

other ; put a board on top, and press it down by the weight of 
a heavy flatiron. Let them remain thus for about an hour, 
when most of their bitter flavor will have oozed out. Now 
turn each slice in some flour, and sczi/Je in a little hot butter or 
drippings to a dark brown, first on one side, then on the other. 
Serve very hot. 

For baking egg-plant take either one large or two small 
ones. Pare them, cut them into thick slices, and boil in salted 
Egg-plant, water until quite soft. Then drain and mash 

eu gratin. them. Add half a cupful of bread-crumbs soaked 

in milk, a scant tablespoonful of butter, a teaspoonful of minced 
parsley, half as much of minced onion, a little pepper, and salt 
to taste. Beat together, and put into a buttered ^ratin-dish. 
Cover the top wath bread-crumbs, and bake until nice and 
brown. 

Before speaking of our great favorite  the tomato  I will 
hurriedly mention the summer squash, sometimes called patty- 
pan squash, on account of its shape. Although 
^"^^ ' not much more than water, squash, for a change, 

is quite refreshing. When it is very young and tender, you 
need not pare it, nor take out the seeds. Wash your squashes, 
and quarter them ; cover them with boiling water, slightly 
salted, and boil them until they mash easily, which will be in 
about half an hour. Then put them into a sieve, and, with a 
large and flat spoon, press the water out of them. Return 
them to the stew-pan with a good-sized piece of butter, a little 
salt, and some cream, if you choose. They need a good deal 
of butter to make them palatable. 

Now for tomatoes, this always welcome and refreshing vege- 



LETTER XV 123 

table. Like the potato, it belongs to the family of night- 
shades ; but how different from that common-place relative 
it is, both in nature and in looks, drawing nurture 

Tomatoes and the 

and color from the rays of the sun, while the various ways of 

,  1  i ^1 1 J J cooking them. 

meaner cousm is sticking to the clod and 
vegetating in darkness. The sunny offspring, to be sure, 
does not give us nearly the amount of actual food we get 
from the darkling ; but what other vegetable is there so cool- 
ing on hot summer days, so refreshing always, whether summer 
or winter, so much so, as to tempt us to call it a fruit rather 
than a vegetable ? 

If you pour boihng water over the tomatoes and allow them 
to stand awhile, you can easily remove their skins. Then take 
each between your hands, and press out some of the w^atery 
inside and as many of the hard seeds as possible. Don't rob 
them of too much of their juice; it contains highly valuable 
mineral matters and the very acid which produces their refresh- 
ing and cooling effect. Put your tomatoes prepared in the 
above way into a skillet, and allow them to cook twenty min- 
utes, no longer. Add plenty of salt, and shortly before they 
are done a good-sized piece of butter and a sprinkle of pepper. 
If you like them thickened, add some water-cracker dust or 
fine bread-crumbs. 

To bake tomatoes, cut them into halves and place them, with 
end downward, side by side on a layer of bread-crumbs in a 
buttered gratin-dish.. Sprinkle with plenty of salt and a little 
white pepper. Cover up with a layer of bread-crumbs, and 
put over it as many little pieces of butter as you have halves of 
tomatoes. Bake them in a moderate oven for from half to 
three-quarters of an hour. 

Fried tomatoes are most dehcious for breakfast or supper. 
I have eaten them in perfection in southern Pennsylvania and 
Delaware, where there is a wealth of rich cream. Cut the 
tomatoes into rather thick slices. Have some hot butter, or 
the best beef drippings, in a large frying-pan ; put your slices 
into it, one beside the other, and saute until brown on both 
sides. Then pour over them plenty of rich cream to make a 



124 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

gravy. When bubbling up, remove the tomato shces carefully 
with a skimmer into a hot platter. Do not heap them up, but 
place them side by side. Now take the yolks of two or three 
eggs, beaten up in a little cream, which you have gottem ready 
beforehand, and stir into the cream gravy after it has been 
removed from the stove. After stirring it well, replace it on 
the stove for a few minutes to get hot, without boiling, stirring 
all the time. At last pour it over the tomatoes, and serve. 

It was Grimod de la Reyniere who invented stuffed toma- 
toes. I give you his own famous recipe : Make an opening at 
the stem end of the tomatoes, press the latter, so as to relieve 
them as much as possible of their seeds without injury to their 
shape. Fill into the cavity thus obtained a stuffing of either 
sausage meat or chopped meat of any kind, or of different 
meats. Mix with this stuffing a soup(;on of garlic (or rather 
rub the dish in which you mix the stuffing with the inside of a 
clove of garlic), some minced parsley, shallot, and tarragon. 
Put the tomatoes side by side into a buttered gratin-^v^, which 
they must fill out. Dust bread-crumbs over the top to cover 
the whole ; place bits of butter on it, one for each tomato. 
Bake in a hot oven for about half an hour. The top ought to 
be of a light brown. 

Stewed tomatoes left over can be served again in many ways. 
They may be added to rice, or macaroni, or eaten with eggs, 
or added to a soup or a hash. They are always in place, with 
whatever meat or cereals you serve them ; and they are pre- 
eminently suited to go with eggs in any shape. 

To make my list of vegetables complete I must not omit 
onions. If you like them, you will do well to have them now 
and then with roast poultry. Boil them in two 
waters, salted. Throw away the first water after 
they have boiled about five minutes, and renew it. They will 
be milder in taste this way. Boil them for an hour or more, 
until they are perfectly tender. Drain them. Boil some cream, 
to which add a piece of butter, salt, and pepper, and pour over 
the onions for a dressing. Steep them in it for a little while. 
Then serve. Or, make 2. puree of them, by chopping them fine 



LETTER XV 125 

after they are boiled and tender, which moisten with the same 
dressing, adding to it a Httle thickening of flour. /" 

For a garnish of roast duck or beefsteak, do as follows : 
Take a dozen small onions, all of one size. Be careful in peel- 
ing not to cut them too close at the root end, or they may fall 
to pieces in cooking. Boil them in the above manner for half 
an hour, then drain, and put them in a sauce-pan with butter 
the size of a walnut, a scant teaspoonful of sugar, two or three 
tablespoonfuls of good broth, and a little salt. Keep them over 
a lively fire for about ten minutes, shaking the sauce-pan fre- 
quently to prevent scorching. Then remove them to a mod- 
erate fire, and let them stew until they become brown and 
glazed over. They must be perfectly tender. 

I would be at the end of enumerating the different vegetables 
for table use were it not for my classifying chestnuts with them 
rather than with fruit. In our country we have chestnuts and 
not yet made such use of them in connection with ^'^^'^ ^^e them. 
meat or other vegetables as is done in Europe. One reason 
for it, no doubt, is the high price paid for the large imported 
chestnuts, and the tediousness of peeling for cooking purposes 
the puny little ones growing wild on this continent. The chest- 
nut, on account of its medliness (starch) and sweetness (sugar), 
is very much Hke the sweet potato in its compounds. Its 
flavor, however, is far superior, and its fibre much more deli- 
cate. In the south of Europe, where chestnuts grow large and 
abundantly, they are part of the daily food of the common 
people. On the Isle of Corsica the latter make them serve as 
bread, and speak of the bread tree when they mean the chest- 
nut tree. 

Chestnuts assort especially well with cabbage, Brussels sprouts, 
and other greens. They need fat to make them easier of diges- 
tion. For a garnish do as follows : Peel the chestnuts, throw 
them into boiling water, cover them up and allow to stand for 
five minutes. Then remove the inner skin by rubbing it off 
with a clean towel, and throw the peeled chestnuts into cold 
Water. Drain and rub dry with another towel ; then put them 
into a sauce-pan side by side with a little salt, a good sprinkle 



126 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

of granulated sugar, a small piece of butter, and broth half an 
inch deep. Cover them up well, shake them from time to 
time, and cook over a moderate fire until they are light brown 
and tender. 

They make a very nice puree by preparing them as above, 
and cooking them until quite tender in broth sufficient to cover 
them (veal or chicken broth is best). Then mash them well, 
adding some boiling hot cream, a good-sized piece of butter, 
and a little salt. This puree is particularly good with duck, 
mutton, and meat croquettes. 

Before closing I will repeat what I indicated in the begin- 
ning when speaking of vegetables : that two or more of 
different kinds will make with ingenuity and judgment, 
a most appetizing-looking mixed vegetable dish,^ or what 
is called a maccdoitie. It will give you some extra trouble, 
to be sure, and also cause a certain expense. But once in a 
while, for some desired guests, you would take this upon your- 
self willingly, and the effect produced will repay you. At the 
time of spring and early summer, when vegetables are freshest 
and in plenty, a macedoine is in its proper place : Take only 
A macedoine the bcst and frcshcst you can get : carrots, turnips, 
of vegetables. grecu pcas, asparagus, string-beans or any other 
vegetables which will match. Cut the roots into fancy shapes, 
the beans into lozenges, the asparagus into one-and-a-half- 
inch pieces. Cook each by itself in salted water until just 
done. Drain them ; put a good-sized piece of butter into a 
stewing-pan ; when melted, put in your vegetables and stir 
them gently over a not too lively fire. There must not be any 
more butter than sufficient to encase with it the vegetables. 
When they are thoroughly heated, moisten them with some 
thick bechamel sauce and serve them heaped up, pyramid- 
shaped, on a hot dish. 

This is Dumas' recipe, on which you may improve by stew- 
ing each vegetable, after parboiling it, in butter and a little 
water, except asparagus and cauliflower, which you boil in 

1 See also filet of beef, p. 47. 



LETTER XV 127 

some broth. Then you might either mix your vegetables in 
the above way, or  what would look nicer  arrange them 
wreath-like, each vegetable by itself, as demonstrated before ; 
or in different sections around some kind of meat, or a head 
of cauliflower. By adding stewed mushrooms, shrimps, or lob- 
ster claws, you will raise it to a first-class dish. 

If from the abundance of vegetables at your command you 
make wise selections, and have a variety for your daily fare 
accompanied by well-assorted meat, you will not run the 
danger of being reproached one day by a squib Uke that of the 
boy averse to turnips :  

Turnips, turnips day by day, 
Drove me surely off and away. 
If for dinner mother had 
Meat, good meat, at home I'd staid. 



LETTER XVI 

So many fishes of so many features. 



DU Bartas. 



YOU have reminded me in good time that I have not said 
anything as yet about fish. It is not equivalent to beef, 
and hardly as nourishing as the lower grades of meat ; still, it 
contains nutritives enough to warrant using it in place of meat. 
It also produces a pleasant change in one's diet. 

Food value of fih. , . ^ . . / .  , ' 

and IS enticing to the appetite, often much more 
so than meat is. Then, it offers a variety inconii)arable to the 
latter. The Neapolitans, who eat everything living or breathing 
within the briny deep, call \\.frutti di mare (fruit of the sea), a 
fit figure of speech, it seems to me, for shell-fish of any sort. 
In thinking about the abounding food offered by sea and river 
 salt and sweet water  and the succulent meals to be de- 
rived therefrom, one might rather wish for the strict Lenten fare 
of former times. We owe many a first-rate recipe to those days. 
To make it clear to you what nutrients you have in different 
kinds of fish, I again give you a table :  

Albuminoids. Fats. Water. Mineral Matters. 

Pike 1S.5 05 80.0 i.o 

Salmon 16.0 6.5 76.5 i.o 

Codfish ... 17.0 0.4 81.0 1.6 

Eel 13.0 28.5 57.3 1.0 

Green herrinfj 17.8 10.3 70.0 1.9 

Picklerl herring 19.0 18.0 46.4 16.5 

Smoked salmon 24.2 12.3 51.5 12.0 

Sardines, salted 23.0 3.0 540 20.0 

Salted codfish ... 30.0 0.4 49 6 200 

Dried codfish, not salted. . 80.0 I.O 17.5 1.5 

Smoked herring 21.0 8.5 69.3 1.5 

You will notice that fresh fish contains a larger percentage 
of water than does meat, while cured fish makes a strikingly 
128 



LETTER XVI 129 

good show of albaminoids and mineral matters. The latter, 
however, are largely owing to the salt used in preserving thera. 
The highest percentage of nutrients is found in dried codfish, 
and both it and herring furnish the greatest amount of nour- 
ishment for the least amount of money. They have, howe^-er, 
to be accompanied by an adequate percentage of carbohy- 
drates to satisfy the demands of the human system. Thus the 
poorer classes of Europe instinctively eat their salted herring 
with potatoes ; while in this country we have the codfish-balls, 
consisting of part potatoes. 

You will also notice the large percentage of fats v.; - 's 
found in some fish, especially eel. Fish of that sort is r.ir-^tr 
to digest, and on that account not rated as high for nourishing 
a tender stomach as fish less fat (for instance, pike), even if 
their nitrogenous substance should be of a lower grade. 

Fish is either bo: led, broiled, baked, or fried. In all cases 
it is to be treated on the same principle as meat, ^^^len put 
to boil in cold water, fish, like meat, will part with 

-^ , , I t - ^ -11  t 1 ^o** 'to cook *:th. 

Its best substances, which will go to ennch the 
water it is cooked in. To make a soup of it or a fish-jelly 
(which is very delicate), this would be the right way; but to 
boil fi^ which is to be eaten, it is necessar)- to put it into boil- 
ing water. To know the right moment when a fish is done, is 
not such an easy a^ir as you might think. It depends not 
merely on the size of the fish, but also on its kind, on the 
nature of the water it has lived in, on the time passed since it 
was killed, and on the water in which it is boiled. An tmder- 
done fish is disgusting, while an over-done one is tasteless and 
mostly tough. After fifteen minutes from the time a fish has 
been put on the fire, one has to be on the watch. If the fish 
is small or thin, it most likely will not stand a second's longer 
coDking. If large, it may need half an hour to be well done, 
or even more. Experience and a certain fine instinct have to 
guide you. One sign  and a pretty safe one  is to try a fin. 
If it gives way easily to a slight pull, the fish is done. Fish, 
like meat which is to be dished up, has to be kept simmering 
latber tiian boiling after its first immersion in lively boiling 



130 LETFERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

water. After it is cleaned, it must not be kept soaking in 
cold water. Some salt-water fishes are better for sprinkling 
them with salt inside and outside for about one hour before 
cooking them. The salt, of course, has to be washed off again. 
Be sure that your fish is always as fresh as possible. It decom- 
poses quickly, and then is very harmful. Never buy a fish 
whose eyes are dull-looking, or the gills of which are not of a 
fine red color. It is best, of course, when put on the fire as 
soon as caught and killed ; but this luxury is within the reach 
of but a minority of people. 

To boil fish, well-salted water with the addition of a cupful 
of vinegar is generally the right medium. In some cases, how- 
ever, the addition of a bouquet of herbs, an onion, and a httle 
spice is preferable. A good recipe for this "cradle " of boiled 
fish, as Grimod de la Reyniere calls it, is the following :  

Court-Bouillon to boil Fish in.  For three pints of water 
take one-half pint of cider vinegar, one large carrot, two onions, 
two cloves, one teaspoonful of pepper seeds, two bay leaves, and 
enough salt to make it strongly taste of it (about three table- 
spoonfuls). When it boils put in your fish. 

Keep this in mind, and all I have said before, and you will 
be able to boil pretty nearly all kinds of fish without trouble. 
Fish is nice enough boiled whole, well garnished, and served 
with potatoes and a good sauce ; but it is pleasant to vary the 
method, for the sake of which I proceed to give you some 
special recipes which will enable you to diversify the process by 
applying the given methods to other kinds of fish, or to alter 
them according to your needs and likings. A few of them 
will be convenient for breakfast. I take for granted, of course, 
that you get your fish of the fish dealer, well prepared and 
cleaned. 

Striped Bass, stuffed and baked.  Make a stuffing of one 
stale breakfast roll, one tablespoonful of butter, the roes of the 
fish (or if it has none, of a carp or some other sweet-water 
fish), two eggs, a teaspoonful of minced parsley, and a salt- 
spoonful of salt. Soak the roll in milk, and press it until dry 
in a napkin ; melt the butter, and pour it over the bread. Mix 



LETTER XVI 131 

well ; then add the eggs, stir until light, after which you add 
the roes chopped beforehand, the parsley, and salt. Try a 
little of this stuffing by putting it into boiling water for five 
minutes. If too soft, add some bread-crumbs, if too stiff, a 
little cream. Fill it into the fish, and sew it up. Now put 
a tablespoonful of butter into a dripping-pan, slice one onion, 
one carrot, one celery root, and add to it some bunches of 
parsley ; arrange so as to make a bed of them for the fish to 
lie on, and cover the latter up with a sheet of paper buttered 
on both sides. Bake for one hour in a slow oven, adding a 
little water from time to time, and baste the fish frequently. 
When done, lift it on a hot platter, carefully remove the stitches, 
and garnish with parsley, pieces of lemon, and anything else 
your taste dictates. Serve it with a sauce : we ^ 

. , Sauce 

will say a HoUandaise. To make it, put the yolks Hoiiandaise 
of two eggs into a skillet, which you place in a 
vessel with boiling water. Add a cupful of the liquid left in 
the fish-pan, after it has been strained and the fat taken off. 
Stir all the while with a wire whisk. Cut a tablespoonful of 
butter into little pieces, and add them one by one ; salt to 
taste ; put in a sprinkle of nutmeg, and the juice of half a 
lemon, if liked. Stir until thick ; do not let it curdle, and serve 
as soon as done. 

In the same way you can bake red-snapper, carp, shad, and 
lake-pike. 

The best lake-pike I have ever eaten was in Switzerland, 
near the lake of Geneva. I asked for the recipe, and here 
it is :  

Stewed Pike.  Take a good-sized fish ; put it whole into a 
fish-kettle with about a quart of good rich broth, two onions, 
each stuck with one clove, a bunch of parsley, and four or five 
thick slices of bread as large as the palm of your hand. Cover 
it up well. When half done  that is, in about a quarter of 
an hour from the time it began to boil  add a pint and a half 
of some good white wine (cold). When entirely done, place 
the fish carefully on a hot platter, remove onions and parsley 
from the liquor in which the fish was boiling, and add to it the 



132 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

yolks of about three eggs beaten light in a little cream (or 
milk). Do not let it curdle, and do not break up the bread 
any more than you can help. Put the latter around the fish 
by means of a cake-lifter, and pour as much of the sauce over 
it as the dish will hold. The rest you serve in a boat. I have 
cooked shad this way, and also found it delicious. 

By boiling pike simply in salted water, you can have a very 

pretty dish, if you put the tail of the fish into its mouth, thus 

shaping^ it into a rin^^. You have to do this when 

Ringed pike. i r  ^ r ^  i -t 

raw, before puttmg the fish mto boihng water. In 
this case you need, of course, a round pot in which to boil your 
fish. When done, serve it on a round platter, and fill the space 
inside the ringed fish with small round potatoes cooked in salted 
water. Pour over them some melted butter, in which a table- 
spoonful of minced parsley has been cooked for one or two 
seconds. 

Boil codfish or haddock in salted water, with the addition 
only of a little vinegar. Of cod the tail-piece is the favorite 
part. It is nicest ser\'ed whole, with oyster sauce. 
haddock; how to For stcwcd codfish, cut a Small cod into three or 
four equal-sized pieces, wash them in salt water, 
and put them into a kettle with no more water than will cling 
to them. Add a blade of mace, a wineglassful of white cook- 
ing-wine, and two tablespoonfuls of butter divided in halves, 
one of them having a scant tablespoonful of flour rubbed into 
it. Add salt to taste, and at the very last a little white pepper 
(powdered). Let it cook slowly and well-covered for fifteen 
to twenty minutes, and serve the fish and sauce in the same 
dish. 

For a sauce to accompany either pike, cod, or haddock, I 
would recommend a mustard sauce. It is made simply by 
mixing and stirring over the fire two tablespoon- 
fuls of butter and one tablespoonful of French 
mustard, until just before the point of boiling. 

For boiled salmon take a middle piece, because there is 
little waste. Two pounds will be sufficient for eight persons. 
Take a heaped tablespoonful of butter, work one heaped tea- 



LETTER XVI 133 

Spoonful of flour into it, and place it in the hollow side of the 
fish. Tie a napkin around it with twine, and boil it covered 
up with court-bouillon, to which add some wine, 

.. ., .,,. ,, , f. , Boiled salmon 

if you Wish to indulge in such luxury (for, accord- with parsley 
ing to Grimod, salmon  which he called the ^^^^^' 
prince of the sea  is somewhat addicted to the use of spirits, 
and only cares for the best). Your salmon needs about twenty- 
five minutes' gentle boiling. Take it out of the napkin, place 
it in the middle of a platter, and garnish with the finest sprigs 
of curled parsley you can get, to which you may add some 
pieces of lemon, little pofato balls, lobster claws, or anything 
harmonizing in taste and color. Serve it with a 

Parsley Sauce.  Take the yolks of two eggs, half a table- 
spoonful of flour, two tablespoonfuls of minced parsley, and one 
heaped tablespoonful of butter. Melt the butter, put in the 
rest and stir, with a little water, until quite smooth ; then add 
gradually, stirring all the while, three-quarters of a pint of the 
boiling-hot liquor in which the fish has been cooked. Allow 
to boil up just once, and serve in a boat. 

Another most delicious sauce for salmon is the following, the 
recipe of which I owe to the wife of the landlord at Bad Gries- 
bach, in the Black Forest,. Germany. She called g^y^e Genoise 
it sauce Genoise. Chop the lower tail-end of a ^^ salmon. 
salmon into several pieces, and satite it in a little butter, with 
the addition of one small onion, half a carrot (both sliced), a 
little bunch of parsley, half a bay leaf, two pepper seeds, one 
clove, and a mite of garlic. Take it off the fire before it gets 
brown ; pour off the butter, add one pint of good red wine, one 
salted sardine, and let it boil continuously for a quarter of an 
hour. Then pass the whole through a wire sieve, stir into it a 
piece of butter the size of half an ^gg, and serve. If a salted 
sardine cannot be had, a little anchovy paste added at the last 
will do instead. 

If any cooked salmon is left over, use it next day in this 
way : Divide it into nicely trimmed pieces, saute ^ luncheon dish 
them quickly on both sides in a Httle hot butter, o^ salmon. 
then sei-ve them with a cold 



134 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

T Sauce Remoulade.  Take the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs ; 
when cold, press them flat with a spoon, and stir them with a 
teaspoonful of vinegar until smooth. Add little by little one 
tablespoonful of olive oil and two tablespoonfuls of French 
mustard, then one teaspoonful of minced onion, two teaspoon- 
fuls of minced parsley, a pinch of white pepper, salt to taste, 
and, if not sufficiently sour, the juice of a lemon. This sauce 
will keep for days. 

Filet of Flounder a la Joinville is an extremely nice dish. 
Take two flounders, skin them, and cut the flesh off the bones 
with a sharp-pointed knife. Divide it into eight filets, which 
you roll up into eight little turbans. Fasten each with a wooden 
toothpick, to be removed before serving. Stew them slowly in 
one tablespoonful of butter, to which add a wineglassful of 
cider champagne, one small onion, a little lemon juice, three 
pepper seeds, and a pinch of salt. When done (in about fif- 
teen minutes) take out your filets carefiilly with a skimmer and 
arrange them on a hot dish. Place a button mushroom, heated 
in its own liquor, on top of each turban. Now throw a ball of 
butter and flour the size of half an egg into the boiling liquid, 
and when dissolved strain this sauce. Pour some of it around 
the filets and serve the rest in a boat. A very nice addition is 
to have some oysters cooked in their own juice with which to 
trim the filets. You may also color your sauce with a table- 
spoonful of melted crayfish or lobster butter.^ 

Fried fish is very good turned in salted flour, or salted egg 

and bread-crumbs, and then put into boiling hot fat to get 

brown. But most fish are really too fat to be 

To broil fish. , . , . . , , i -i i 

treated m this way ; they are much better broued, 
as, for instance, shad, if not too large, mackerel, and eel. 
In broiling you follow the same rule I gave you for broiling 

meat, merely seeing that the fire is rather slow 

Broiled mackerel. , . i /- i   -i i 11 

and keepmg the fish roastmg on it until thoroughly 
done. Mackerel is best in the spring. The Spanish mackerel, 
coming up from the Southern States, is the most delicious, 

1 See p. 146. 



LETTER XM 135 

but also the most expensive. Even the common kind is verv 
acceptable when broiled. Wipe it dry with a towel after 
washing it. Rub the inside with some salt and pepper ; bnish 
the fish on both sides with some olive oil (or melted butter) ; 
wTap it in a piece of white paper which is well oiled or but- 
tered, and put it on the gridiron. It ^^^ll take from twenty 
to twenty-five minutes to get done. Then remove the paper, 
put the fish on a hot dish, and serve it with viaitre d^hotel 
butter ^ spread over the top. 

To broil bloaters, soak them in half milk, half water, for an 
hour; then pull otf the skin. Wrap them in buttered paper 
and broil on a slow fire for five minutes on each 

., J--J 1 J 1 -in Broiled bloaters. 

side ; or diviae them down the middle, remove 
the bones, put them on a flat dish, and pour on them some 
olive oil. At the time for serving put them on the gridiron and 
keep them on the fire for one or two minutes on each side. 

A halibut steak turned in salted Indian meal, psh steak 
and saiifetd in hot lard, is a nice dish, espe- ^---^- 
cially when sensed with oyster sauce. 

As it is a matter of importance to an economical house- 
keeper to know what to do with remnants of fish. How to use 
I mention the followin2r wavs in which to use remnants of fish, 
fish left over :  

No. I.  Butter a dish : put into it in alternate layers thinly 
sliced boiled potatoes and fish picked into small pieces. 
Spread over each layer some plain bechamel sauce. Dust 
bread-crumbs over the top, and put in the oven to get brown 
for ten or fifteen minutes. Ser\-e in the same dish. 
/ Wo. 2.  Remove carefiilly skin and bone of boiled fish; 
cut it into nice little pieces and pile it up pyramid-shape on a 
flat dish. Now pour over it a bechamel sdiuct, made with cream 
or milk, to which a saltspoonful of anchovy paste has been 
added. Dust over the whole some grated Parmesan cheese, 
and sprinkle with melted butter. Put in a quick oven for a few 
minutes, or until of a nice brown color. 

1 See p. 74. 



136 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

No. 3.  Put mashed potatoes rim-like in a dish ; place some 
nice large pieces of boiled fish in the middle ; drop flakes 
of butter between the pieces here and there ; pour over it some 
thick cream, and dust it over with two-thirds bread-crumbs 
and one-third grated cheese. Put it into the oven to get 
heated and take color. 

No. 4.  To a cupful of shredded fish take a cupful of 
mashed potatoes. Put both into a wooden bowl, and work 
them to a paste with a potato masher, adding to it successively 
one egg, a tablespoonful of butter, and a cupful of milk. Add 
salt to taste, and continue working the whole until quite light. 
Fill it into a buttered gra/in-dish. and bake in a quick oven 
until light brown. Serve it either with a green salad, French 
dressing, or with a sauce of your choosing. 

No. 5.  After your cooked fish is freed of all bones and 
skin, cut it into small dice, and put these into shells. Make a 
white roiix, thin it with broth and a little white wine (which 
may be replaced by lemon or orange juice) ; add salt, a sprinkle 
of white pepper, a little minced parsley, and a few mushrooms 
also minced. Cover up the fish with this sauce, put on top of 
each shell a flake of butter, and put in the oven for five minutes. 

There are some excellent French ways of stewing fish which 

we might appropriate to our use. Famous among them is the 

BouiUe-abaisse of Southern France, which inspired 

Bouille-abaisse. ^,, ,  ^  ^ ^^ ^ r ^ t-. 

J hackeray to write his ballad of that name. But 
this dish, after all, seems to have been more a convivial memory 
than a real enthusiasm, or he would have done better in describ- 

o  "A sort of soup, or broth, or brew, 

Or hotchpotch of all sorts of fishes, 
That Greenwich never could outdo." 

It sounds much more appetizing when we read of it in Mary's 
long poem, given by Monselet, which begins :  

" Pour le vendredi maigre, un jour, certaine abbesse 
D'un couvent marseillais crea la bouille-abaisse, 
Et jamais ce bienfait n'a trouve des ingrats 
Chez les peuples marins, qui n'aiment point le gras. 
Ce plat est un poeme."  



J 



LETTER XVI 137 

[For a Friday's fast one day the abbess good 
Of a convent in Marseilles created bouille-abaisse, 
And the boon she conferred is remembered with praise 
By the men of the sea, who are partial to fish. 
The dish is a poem.  ] 

Then he goes on and describes in the most enticing man- 
ner how^ at first, a wonderful coulis is made of numerous little 
fish and spice, and how, in this carefully prepared liquor, 
about half a dozen different kinds of fish are cooked and 
then served. The vulgarized recipes for bouille-abaisse are 
nothing compared to it, and, on the whole, since we do not 
live on the borders of the Mediterranean, we had better leave 
this dish alone, and turn to the simpler and less expensive 
matelote, for which I will give you two different recipes to 
choose from. 

Bluefish en Matelote.  Cut the fish into pieces, put it into 
a stew-pan, add a bay leaf, six pepper seeds, a sprinkle of salt, 
one clove, and pour over it sufficient cheap claret to cover the 
fish. Let it come to a boil as quickly as possible. Meanwhile 
take a dozen small onions and saute them in butter until turned 
light brown. Take also a dozen small button mushrooms, a 
saltspoonful of salt, a sprinkle of pepper, a teaspoonful of 
lemon juice and the juice of the mushrooms; add all this to 
the onions, and allow the whole to stew until about three- 
quarters done. Now, when the fish has come to a boil, skim 
it, and add to the liquor about a tablespoonful of butter, and 
as much of flour, both kneaded into a ball. This makes the 
sauce, which must neither be too thin, nor too thick, but have 
the right consistency. After the butter and flour have dis- 
solved, you add the onions, the mushrooms, and their liquor to 
the sauce, and allow the whole to simmer until the pieces of 
fish are quite done. You may add some shrimps at the last. 
Serve the pieces of fish wreath-wise on a round dish, and pour 
the sauce over it and into the centre. You may cook other 
kinds of fish in the same way. Or make a matelote of several 
kinds of fish. Take one fat, and the other lean, as for instance 
pike and whitefish, or salmon-trout and shad. 



138 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

Matelote of Perch.  Melt some butter in a stew-pan, and 
add some minced parsley and onion, and then your fish. Pour 
over it a pint of cider champagne, and when nearly done add 
a dozen or more oysters, a dozen clams, and some shrimps if 
you choose ; then let the whole simmer until done. This is 
a French recipe (called matelote normajide), as is also the 
foregoing one. 

I end this letter with a recipe for fish in jelly, which is well 

worth the trouble of trying. I have found it useful many 

a time, when I wanted a pretty dish other than 

Fish in jelly. ' i / i i ir 

meat on my tea or luncheon table. You can 
make this dish also of remnants of boiled fish, if they are 
left in good shape. Cut your fish into thick slices and boil 
them with several onions, pepper seeds, a bay leaf, salt, and 
some vinegar. When done and cool, arrange the pieces in a 
mould, placing in the bottom of the latter first of all some thin 
slices of lemon. Allow the liquor in which the fish was boiled 
to continue cooking, with head and tail of the fish added. 
After an hour's lively boiling strain it, add a cupful of good 
broth in which you have dissolved a heaped saltspoonful of 
Liebig, and the juice of half a lemon. Taste it if salt is needed. 
Place a tablespoonful of it on ice to see if it will jelly. If not, 
add some gelatine to stiffen it. Clear it,^ and pour over the 
fish in your mould. If you should be able to procure some 
branches of fresh tarragon, you will produce a very pretty effect 
by arranging them inside your mould, but outside of the fish, 
in the form of a light wreath. This you do before you fill up 
the mould with your jelly. The tarragon in addition will add 
its flavor to the dish. 

Of all the wealth of the fish-market, and the abundance of 
good recipes, I have shown you but a glimpse. You will learn 
by experience, and, to guide you on the road to it, I beUeve 
I have told you what is needful. 

1 See p. 80. 



LETTER XVII 

A dish that I do love to feed upon. 

 Shakespeare. 

I WOULD rather commence at once to tell you of shell-fish  
a delightful subject  if my conscience would let me. For 
I have not given you any instruction as yet about the prosaic, 
but very useful, cured cod. To prepare it for use, ^^^^^ ^^^ 
put it in cold water (skin upward, to allow the and how to 
salt to leave the fish), which change a few times, 
and soak for from twelve to twenty-four hours, according to 
the thickness of the fish. To cook it, put it in plenty of cold 
water (no salt), and place it on the stove, where it will get hot 
very slowly. It must not boil, or it will be tough. When quite 
hot, move the pot with the fish to a place still further removed 
from the fire, and let it steep there for half an hour longer. If 
the piece is from a fine large cod, it is to be served whole with 
a sauce Hollandaise} At a New England coast town I have 
eaten it thus cooked, when it was exceedingly nice. It was 
served with two sauces, one of drawn butter, and the other 
consisting of the pure fat rendered from salt pork, cut in small 
dice, and the cracklings left in. Besides, there were the 
mealiest of potatoes (cooked in salted water), sliced beets in 
vinegar, and hard-boiled eggs. It was a perfect meal. 

In a Capuchin monastery in southern Germany, dried codfish, 
after being freshened and cooked, is served with onions cut fine 
and fried in butter until yellow, and with a puj-ee of dried peas. 

You may also shred salt codfish, after being cooked, into 
small pieces, and treat it like recipe No. 4 for using up rem- 
nants of fish.^ 

1 See p. 131. 2 See p. 136. 

139 



140 LEITERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

For Codfish Balls, chop even quantities of cooked fish and 
potatoes. Cut fat salt pork into dice, and render until partly 
melted ; then chop fine what is left of them and mix with the 
fish and potatoes. Form into balls and fry in the fat rendered 
from the pork scraps. This recipe will also make a nice hash. 
I owe it likewise to a good New England housewife. 

What has been said in praise of codfish as a nutrient cannot 
be said in favor of oysters ; and yet who would be willing to do 
without this ''fruit of the sea"? Their large percentage of 
water (from So to 85 per cent) is the reason why oysters rank 
low in this respect. Still they make a show of about equal 
percentages of albuminoids and carbohydrates  a little more 
perhaps of the former than the latter  and a very fair show as 
to fat and mineral matter in proportion to them. If eaten in 
quantities they do very well for nutriment. They are easily 
digested if eaten raw, but less so when cooked. Oysters, there- 
fore, ought never to be more than just made hot ; the longer 
they stay on the fire the more the albumen they contain will 
harden, and be apt to interfere with a comfortable digestion. 

Oysters may be cooked in so many different styles, and are 

so easily gotten ready, that they are most convenient, and at 

the same time always welcome, for helping out 

Se^different whcn an uncxpcctcd guest comes to share a meal 

ways of cook- ^yjt;]^ ^g or whcn Drovisions happen to run short for 

ing them. ' ^ , , . . . , 

our daily fare. They are so delicious in taste and 
flavor that I v\'Ould prefer to have them cooked mostly in their 
own liquor ; and if spice is to be used, to take a blade of mace 
only, since it seems to harmonize better with the aroma of the 
oyster than other kinds of spice. The addition of a httle lemon 
juice, however, is to be recommended, since a slight acid helps 
to diu^est the albumen. 

The one way in which the flavor of the oyster when exposed 
to heat is preserved almost intact, is to roast them. To do 
this, get them on the half-shell with whatever juice they have, 
and place them side by side on a gridiron over a bright fire. 
Leave them on it just long enough to get hot and plump ; then 
serve on their shells. The next best way is to pan them. 



LETTER XVII 141 

Take the oysters with the juice that will adhere to them and 
put them in a shallow pan, in which a piece of butter has been 
melted. Put them in a moderately hot oven, and leave them in 
it until the beards begin to curl ; then serve. Ahva)'s taste the 
oysters to see whether salt is needed. For broiled or panned 
oysters, a slight dusting over with white pepper might be liked. 

For tea or supper a dish of scalloped oysters is very nice. 
Drain your oysters, and see that no fragments of shell are left 
clinging to them. Take a gra/i/i-dish ; butter it ; put in a thin 
layer of rather coarse bread-crumbs, then a layer of the oys- 
ters with some bits of butter, some more bread-crumbs, and 
so on, until the oysters are all used up. Put a thick layer of 
crumbs on the top and sprinkle with melted butter. If the 
oysters appear rather dry, add some of their juice before put- 
ting on the top layer of crumbs. Some substitute a small 
wineglassful of sherry for the oyster liquor ; but this is a matter 
of taste. Bake the oysters in a moderately hot oven for about 
one hour. 

To make a plain oyster stew, boil and skim the oyster liquor 
first. Add a thickening of flour and butter rubbed together, 
or one of cracker-dust, adding the butter afterwards. Some 
like milk added to the juice of the oysters, and some do not. 
By adding milk you increase, of course, the nourishing proper- 
ties of the oyster stew. After the liquid is ready, put in 
your oysters, and let them get hot. If you intend to have a 
more perfect oyster stew, proceed in this way : Cut the 
beards off two dozen oysters. Sprinkle some lemon juice over 
the latter. Put the juice of the oysters and the beards on to 
boil, and skim well ; then add a blade of mace, a few pepper 
seeds and the peel of half a lemon shaved off; let it boil slowly 
for half an hour from the time it was put on the fire ; then 
strain the liquid and when boiling again put in a scant table- 
spoonful of butter, into which as much flour has been rubbed. 
Add also half a pint of cream (or milk) made hot beforehand. 
When the butter and flour is dissolved and the sauce quite 
smooth, put in your oysters. Allow them to get hot, but do 
not let them boil, and serve at once. 



142 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

If you wish to fry oysters, take large ones, drain them, turn 
them first in some flour, then in an egg beaten up, and lastly 
in some bread or cracker crumbs. Throw them into some boil- 
ing hot lard and leave in only long enough to turn light brown. 

For broiling oysters also take large ones ; turn them in bread- 
crumbs, and put them on a well-greased, double wire gridiron. 
Have a bright coal fire, and broil them for one or two minutes, 
first on one side, then on the other. Have a hot dish, with a 
piece of butter melting on it, to receive them, and serve at once. 

For an oyster fricassee proceed as for the oyster stew second 
in number, with this difference, that you add the yolks of two 
or three eggs, beaten up beforehand, to the liquid, and stir it 
over the fire until it thickens. Add also a little lemon juice. 
Do not let it boil, or it will curdle. This recipe you may use 
likewise for oysters on scallop-shells. Strew bread-crumbs over 
the oysters and sauce with which you have filled your shells, 
and place them in the oven to brown on top. Or fill with 
them some puff-paste patties, which are exceedingly nice. 
You may serve an oyster stew on pieces of toast, which makes 
a nice breakfast dish. If you have some oyster liquor left, 
thicken it with flour and butter rubbed together, add milk or 
cream, and pour it over some hot toast for breakfast or lunch- 
eon. If you wish to keep the oyster liquor until the following 
day, be sure and scald it, or it will not keep. You may also 
add it to a soup made of broth. If cooked oysters are left 
over, they give a pleasant flavor to a hash made of meat, if 
chopped fine with it. 

For oyster sauce, make a bechamel with the juice of the 
oysters and add some cream. Season with a little 

Oyster sauce. i i  111 

mace and white pepper, and when done put m 
some oysters, taking care that they do not harden. 

Clams have the advantage of being fit to eat when oysters 

are not. They afford a good broth, especially for invalids ; 

but clams themselves are hard to digest, unless 

they are boiled just two or three minutes, and 

then even the soft part only is fit to eat. A clam chowder 

is delicious when made as I once ate it in New England. 



LETTER XVII 143 

Clam Chowder.  Take a quarter of a pound of fat salt 
pork, cut it into small dice, and put it on the fire until brown 
and crisp. Chop a small onion, and throw into the pork fat 
to turn yellow. Have ready a soup-plateful of raw potatoes 
very thinly sliced. Put them into a deep stew-pan, strain over 
them the fat from the pork, and add the liquor from a quart of 
clams. Boil slowly until the potatoes are quite done. Mean- 
while take your clams and boil them for three minutes and no 
longer in one pint of water, adding one teaspoonful of salt. 
Drain them; but keep the water. Cut off the hard part of 
the clams and chop, then put them back into the strained 
Water, and let boil for at least a quarter of an hour longer ; 
then drain them again, adding the water to the potatoes and 
clam liquor, and throwing away the hard part of the clams. 
Take their soft parts, and chop them also, but coarsely. Add 
a gill of boiling milk (or cream) to the potatoes, half a 
dozen water crackers, and lastly the chopped clams (soft 
parts). Season with pepper if you like, and a little powdered 
thyme. 

A lobster furnishes you with a very ornamental and palatable 
dish. To boil a lobster, have a large kettle three-quarters full 
of boiling water ; add four onions halved, a large How to boii a 
bouquet of parsley, twenty pepper seeds, two bay '"'^ster. 
leaves, salt at the rate of one heaped tablespoonful to every 
quart of water. Put in your lobster. Do it quickly, head 
foremost, which will kill it and end its torture at once. Let 
it boil for fifteen to twenty-five minutes, according to its size. 
When done, take it out, twist off the claws and tail, cleave 
into halves (lengthwise) body and tail, and remove from the 
latter the dark, stringy vein called ''lady-fingers," which is 
poisonous. Crack the claws on their lower sides and be care- 
ful not to disfigure them. Thus prepared, you may serve the 
lobster hot or cold, scalloped, as salad, croquettes, or in 
various other ways. If you wish to serve the lobster whole, 
you reconstruct it from its separate pieces, masking the flaws 
with sprigs of parsley. Serve it on a folded napkin in the 
middle of an oval platter ; garnish with parsley laid wreath- 



Hke around, and have either a tartar sance or a mayonnaise 
accompanT it} 

I will now give joa some specified recipes tor dishes made 
of lobster. 

Lobster Cutlets.  Take the meat of a boQed lobster and 
pound it in a mortar with one ounce and a half of butter (size 
of an ^g), a saltspoonfol of salt, half as much white pepper, 
and the coral of the lobster (if there is any). When it has 
turned to a smooth paste, it is ready to be formed into small 
cudets, with a small lobster daw stuck in each. Dip into a 
beaten-up egg, and then turn them in some fine bread-crumbs. 
Repeat this after a minute or two, then saMe the cutlets in hot 
butter, and sene them as a course by themselves- 

Lobster Stew.  Cut the meat of a boiled lobster into 
sUces, put it into a stew-pan with a saltspoonfiil of salt, a 
teaspoonful of French mustard, a tablespoonfiil of good cider 
Tinegar, and two ounces of butter. Cover it up, and allow 
to stew over a moderate fire for about six minutes. Then add 
a wineglassfiil of white wine, and let stew another four to five 
minutes. At the last, sprinkle over with white pepper, then 
serve, and garnish with parsley and slices of lemoiL 

Lobster Fricassee.  Cut a boiled lobster into pieces about 
an inch square, and break up the sheUs into Utde pieces by 
means of pesde and mortar. Melt and make hot three ounces 
of butter ; add to it the shells, and when the whole bubbles up 
stir into it a heaped tablespoonfid of flour. Alter it thickens, 
add brodi sufficient to give it the consistency of a sauce, and 
let all boil slowly for half an hour, then strain through a hair 
sieve. Return it to the fire, add the meat of the lobster and 
the yolks of two eggs beaten up in a Utde cream. Stir over 
the fire until hot, but do not let it come to a boiL Vou may 
add to the sauce some asparagus points cooked beforehand in 
salted water, or some balls made of bread-crumbs' or fish ; or 
lK>th, balls and asparagus. The fish balls you make in this 
way: Take three tablespoonfiils of bread-crumbs; moistea 

1 See pp. 74 and 153. < See p. t^. 



LETTER XVII 145 

them with broth, and stir over the fire until bubbling up. Then 
remove from the fire, and mix into them about six ounces of 
cooked fish freed from skin and bones, one whole 

,,,,-, , , Fish balls. 

es:^: and the volk of another one, some salt and 
pepper, a little grated nutmeg, and a teaspoonful of minced 
parsley. Make a thick and smooth paste of all this by working it 
over and over with a wooden pestle. Then form into little balls, 
which boil in some broth for about five minutes, or until done. 

Baked Lobster.  Chop the meat of a boiled lobster. Chop 
also two or three shallots (or a slice of onion) and put into 
three ounces of melted and boiling hot butter. Then remove 
to the side of the stove, and let the shallots simmer until soft, 
when you add the chopped lobster, a saltspoonful of salt, a 
sprinkle of pepper, a teaspoonful of minced parsley, a little 
minced tarragon, if you have any ; and, lastly, four eggs beaten 
light beforehand. Stir and mix over the fire, without allowing 
it to boil. Put this mixture into a buttered ^i;^/v7////-dish, cover 
it with bread-crumbs, sprinkle with melted butter, and bake 
in a moderately hot oven. You may serve with it a sauce IIol- 
landdise ^ colored with some of the lobster coral. Should you 
have the right number of lobster-shells  one for each person 
 fill them with the mixture, and bake it in them. 

Creamed Lobster.  Chop the meat of the boiled lobster, put 
it into a sauce-pan, add a saltspoonful of salt, half as much 
white pepper, a tablespoonful of white wine, and as much vinegar. 
Let it get hot, then add one ounce of butter (size of half an Q:^g) 
mixed with a heaped teaspoonful of flour and a gill of cream. 
Stir the whole over the fire, allowing it to cook gently for ten min- 
utes. You may serve this also in lobster-shells, but do not bake. 

Lobster is delicious with a mayonnaise sauce, and as a salad. 
But I defer giving you the recipe for it until I talk to you about 
salads in general and in particular. I will add, however, the 
recipe for a 

Lobster Sauce.  Chop very fine the coral of a boiled lob- 
ster, together with two anchovies. Moisten it with some broth, 

1 See p. 131. 



146 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

and add a piece of butter the size of a walnut. Rub it through 
a hair sieve. Take as much of the coral as will give a fine red 
color to a bechamel sauce. Flavor with a little lemon juice, and 
add to it a heaped tablespoonful of the lobster meat cut into 
small dice. If you cannot procure any anchovies, take anchovy 
paste the size of a larsre pea. What is left of the 

Lobster butter. >- ... 

lobster coral you may mix with some more melted 
butter and set away for further use. It will do instead of cray- 
fish butter which I recommended to you for some recipes. 

Now, before closing my lesson on fish, I want to say some- 
thing about a generally discarded amphibiam,  the frog, of 
which the hind legs alone come in question. They 
are said to be nourishing and very easily digested. 
Dr. Wiel, who was a famous specialist for diseases of the 
stomach, recommends them highly for invalid diet, either 
stewed or in soup. I give you the following recipe for stewed 
frogs' legs, which I take from a German cook-book devoted to 
Lenten fare :  

Remove the toes of the frogs' legs and wash them clean. 
Make a sauce of butter and flour, thinned with water and fla- 
vored with lemon peel and juice. Put the frogs' legs into this 
sauce and let them stew until tender. When done, add the 
yolks of two eggs. 

They are also good this way : Cook the frogs' legs until 
tender in some water, to which you add salt, a bunch of thyme, 
an onion, and a little vinegar. Do not use any more water 
than just enough to cover them. Strain the liquid and pour 
over the frogs' legs before you serve them. Saute some 
bread-crumbs in a httle butter, and, when brown, spread them 
on the top. 

You may also treat them as a friture, either dipping them 
in batter,^ or merely turning them in egg and fine bread-crumbs, 
before frying them. But, of course, cooked in this way they 
are less digestible. 

'' Basta !'' says the Italian  " enough for to-day." 

1 See p. 78. 



LETTER XVIII 

Let olives, endives, mallows light 
Be all my fare^ 

 Horace. 

Eat cress, and have more wit. 

 Greek Proverb. 

I AM glad to hear that now you think yourself prepared with 
all my teachings to give a dinner party. There is, how- 
ever, one thing more which you have first to learn, and that is 
to plan and dress a salad. I have a long lesson in store for 
you,  a pleasant task,  for I count it a very important part 
of culinary art, and a delightful accomplishment, to make a 
salad in perfection. 

There are raw, cooked, and mixed salads. But lettuce is 
the salad pa7' excellence, and cannot be recommended suffi- 
ciently for its refreshing, its wholesome, and cool- ^ 

-' _ *->' ' General re- 

ing qualities. Cooked vegetables, fish, and meats, marks about 
when made into salads, either by themselves or 
mixed, can be made very tempting ; but for a healthy diet I 
would recommend only the green salads and the cooked vege- 
tables simply dressed. They yield material for a large variety 
of salads and give you an opportunity for testing your talent. 

In our country, with its succulent vegetables, green salad is 
not yet introduced as generally as it deserves. During our hot 
summers especially it ought to be part of the principal meal, at 
least. Brillat-Savarin says : " Salad refreshes without debili- 
tating, and comforts without irritating. I am in the habit of 
saying that it is rejuvenating." We find, however, a much 
earlier appreciation of salad  the lactuca of the Romans  
in Greek authors, where it is praised as soothing, fortifying the 
stomach, and favoring sleep. 

147 



14S LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

This latter, by the by, reminds me of a little incident occur- 
ring years ago. It was June time. We lived in the country 
and had a guest at our table,  a distinguished pioneer and 
general. At dinner I had served with the roast a lettuce salad, 
which was fresh from the garden, and prepared and dressed 
with my own hands,  as I thought, in the most tempting way. 
But, when offered, our guest declined to take it, remarking that 
the opium contained in the lettuce leaves was apt to make him 
inopportunely drowsy. This was news to me ; nor do I find it 
stated anywhere that opium really exists in lettuce. The milky 
juice of the stem, because resembling that of poppies, sesms to 
have led to this belief. This juice, most likely, is the vehicle 
for the nutritives contained in salad, and the fresher the latter, 
the juicier and consequently the more nutritious it is. Accord- 
ing to Liebig, lettuce has of alkalies 23 to 24 per cent of its 
dry substances. But when we consider that it has 94 parts of 
water in every 100, we cannot place it very high as a nutritive. 
Its usefulness, like that of other green and vegetable salads, lies 
in another direction, as indicated above ; while the defect of it, 
and of all of them, is easily remedied, if we add the nutri- 
ents they are deficient in. The best accompaniment, there- 
fore, for green salad is eggs in any form you please ; and is 
there a prettier sight, on the table, than a dish full of green 
curly leaves of lettuce set off with quarters of hard-boiled 
eggs? 

Aside from lettuce, we have herbs for salad. An old parch- 
ment volume of 1691, in my possession, enumerates sixty-two 
kinds of them for a famous herb salad. I would not want you 
to go to that extent ; nor would you be able to procure most 
of them in our days. I merely wish to call your attention to 
certain tender herbs which our markets now afford. They are 
principally water-cress, peppergrass, field salad, borage, chicory, 
dandelion, and they make a nice salad each by itself, as well as 
intermixed ad lib Hum. With the exception of dandelion they 
also garnish beautifully every kind of salad. The latter in its 
wild state makes a wholesome salad in the spring, when the 
first fresh shoots appear on meadows and fields, and you dig 



LEFIER XVIII 149 

for the plant deep enough to get part of the root. The tender, 
clover-Hke leaf of the oxalis {oxalis acetosella), which is to 
be found in the woods during the summer, will also furnish 
you with a slightly acid and refreshing salad. The following 
herbs are what the French call ^^fournitures de salade " 
(trimmings for salad): water-cress, peppergrass, chervil, chives, 
tarragon, pimpernel (garden burnet), balm-mint and borage. 
Add to all these the orange-tinted flowers of nasturtium and 
the blue blossoms of borage, which you may either make into 
a salad by themselves, dressing them with oil, vinegar, and 
salt, or use for a garnish, and you must acknowledge that 
you never need be in trouble about having an enticing and 
even artistic dish of salad on your table. The Italians, who 
are extremely fond of salad, use for it almost anything green 
they can find. When in Northern Italy once in early spring, 
I met during my walk a little black-eyed peasant girl filling her 
apron full of the sprouting shoots of clematis growing on a 
hedge. I curiously inquired the purpose of it, to which she 
replied, '' Per far insalata^^ (to make salad of). But the 
French were the first to excel in salad-making. Many a distin- 
guished Frenchman prided himself on his proficiency in this 
art ; and let me tell you here of my belief that it takes the 
fine sensibilities of a gentleman or a lady to make a really good 
salad. Ordinary cooks and servants are incapable of compre- 
hending even the first principles of it. When the French Revo- 
lution drove the aristocrats from their country, some of them 
made their living, and even their fortunes  like D'Albignac  
by the making of salads. 

"Tu sais que pour la salade 
J'ai les soins d'un emigre " 
(You know I have for the salad 
The emigrant's cares), 

writes Monselet in " Le diner que je veux faire " (the dinner I 
want to devise). 

To dress a salad is not as easy a task as you might think. 
The so-called " French dressing," of oil, vinegar, and salt, seems 



150 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

to be such a simple affair ; but unless you take each of these 
elements in exactly the right proportion to each other and the 
salad to be dressed, the result will not be the desired one. 
To be an expert, you have to divine by instinct how much 
to take of each. I never allow a servant even 
How to prepare to touch the Icavcs of the salad I have served at 

lettuce for salad, 

and how to table, for to have the salad to perfection the touch 

dressing.^ ^'" must bc light, the fingers to trim and arrange 
must be nimble. First take leaf by leaf, throwing 
away the outside and coarse ones, and removing all imperfec- 
tions of those fit for use ; then put them in a deep dish full of 
cold water to rinse them, one by one, transferring them at the 
same time into a large colander. This done, take the latter 
with both hands and toss the leaves lightly up and down in it, 
which will free them from the water cHnging to them. Now 
put the colander on a plate and remove the whole to the re- 
frigerator ; but do not let it come in contact with the ice, which 
would chill the salad to such a degree as to rob it of its char- 
acteristic flavor. There you leave it standing for an hour, or 
until near dinner-time, when it will have turned deliciously 
crisp. Then take up once more leaf after leaf, dividing the 
larger ones carefully into halves and arranging them in a salad- 
bowl, wreath within wreath, like a full-blown rose. It will 
depend on your skill and inspiration to vary your salad by 
intermingling or garnishing it with one or more herbs of a 
darker green, the white and yellow of eggs, the tender pink of 
radishes, the pale green of thinly sliced cucumbers, the flowers 
of nasturtium, etc. Suppose you have done this to your sat- 
isfaction, you put your salad-bowl once more in the refriger- 
ator, with distinct orders to leave it there until the time comes 
for placing it on the table, to be dressed dexterously with your 
own hands, to the delight of your husband and your guests, if 
guests there be. xA.s to the dressing itself, I have told you 
already that instinct will have to teach you more than any 
recipe can do, but, in a general sense, I can recommend the 
following proportions for a plain French dressing : Take, for 
a heaped soup-plateful of salad, a heaped saltspoonful of salt, 



LETTER XVIII 151 

three tablespoonfuls of oil, and one tablespoonful of vinegar. 
Put the salt in your spoon first, then the oil (which must be of 
the best) ; mix the two with your salad-fork, and pour over 
the salad ; then mix with the latter, and after adding the vine- 
gar, mix again thoroughly. If the vinegar is not very sharp, 
add the juice of half a lemon. A sprinkle of white pepper 
mixed in with the oil is also recommendable, as well as a slight 
addition of mushroom catsup mixed in with the vinegar. 
Whenever I want to add some other ingredients to the plain 
dressing, I mix them beforehand with the vinegar needed, and 
pour the mixture, ready for use, in the empty vinegar-cruet of 
the caster. 

If you wish to dress your lettuce salad with mayonnaise, it 
is best to put the latter in the bottom of the salad-bowl and to 
arrange the salad on top of it, allowing the sauce to show in 
the centre. In that case you have but to mix the salad after 
it comes to the table. I will give you some recipes for mayon- 
naise and other salad sauces by and by. 

A salad of herbs  endives (of which the escarol is the best 
kind), water-cresses, dandelion, and field (or corn) salad  is 
always at its best when merely dressed with salt, 

' . ' About the dress- 

vinegar, and oil. Endives are miproved by put- ing of herb 
ting them into warm (not hot) water for a short 
time, then rinsing them in cold water. It somewhat lessens their 
bitter flavor. Dandelion ought always to be a salad by itself. 
Its bitter and pungent flavor does not harmonize with any other 
herb or vegetable. Tarragon vinegar, substituted for plain vine- 
gar, is the only deviation in the above dressing which is per- 
mitted. Field (or corn) salad does not allow as much oil as 
other salads do. It is improved by the addition of a cooked 
potato, grated and mixed into the plain dressing. Water-cresses 
are spoiled by too much vinegar ; they bear but a sprinkle of it. 
A famous firm of gardeners in Germany, who make the culture 
of water-cresses one of their specialties, give the following direc- 
tions for dressing them : Pick and rinse them two or three hours 
before meal-time. Shake them dry, and squeeze the juice of 
half a lemon over a quart of them. Add one tablespoonful 



152 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

of oil, and a small onion minced fine. No vinegar. Mix well 
and let stand in a cool place until served. 

Apart from the exceptions stated, you may, of course, vary 
your dressing as much as the composition of your salads. I 
More substantial will givc you uow a Small nuuibcr of varied salad 
dressings. drcssiugs or sauccs to use at your own discretion. 

I begin with the -oft repeated, because never to be forgotten, 
recipe of Sydney Smith :  

* Two boiled potatoes pressed through kitchen sieve 
Smoothness and softness to the salad give. 
Of mordant mustard add a single spoon, 
Distrust the condiment that bites too soon; 
But deem it not, thou man of herbs, a fault 
To add a double quantity of salt. 
Three times the spoon with oil of Lucca crown, 
And once with vinegar procured from town; 
The flavor needs it, and your poet begs 
The pounded yellow of two well-boiled eggs. 
Let onion atoms lurk within the bowl, 
And  scarce suspected  animate the whole. 
And lastly, o'er the flavored compound toss 
A magic spoonful of anchovy sauce; 
Then, though green turtle fail, though venison's tough. 
And ham and turkey are not boned enough. 
Serenely full, the epicure may say, 
' Fate cannot hurt me  I have dined to-day.' " 

This recipe, in its quaint form, gives you the base for other 
varieties of salad dressing when you lack time to make a 
mayonnaise, and yet wish to have something more than a plain 
dressing. A very excellent variety is the following :  

Take two or three hard-boiled eggs, rub them to a paste, 
and add gradually about five tablespoonfuls of oil, one tea- 
spoonful of French mustard, a sprinkle of white pepper, three 
to four tablespoonfuls of vinegar, and either a tablespoonful of 
minced cives, or capers. You may also leave out the mustard, 
take less oil and vinegar, and add half a cupful of cream. 

A very excellent dressing, also, is the following :  

Take the yolks of one hard-boiled and one raw egg, one tea- 
spoonful of French mustard, one saltspoonful of salt, three to 



LETTER XVIII 153 

four tablespoonfuls of oil, one tablespoonful each of cider and 
of tarragon vinegar, half a teaspoonful each of anchovy essence 
and mushroom catsup, and one heaped tablespoonful of minced 
parsley, chervil, pimpernel (garden burnet) and tarragon mixed. 
Stir until perfectly smooth. The herbs you may omit, if you 
choose. 

The mayonnaise dressing or sauce has to be prepared with 
greater care to make it a success. For a fish or meat salad 
I prefer the followinsr mavonnaise : Boil four esrsfs 

r rr  i  11 i Three different 

for fifteen mmutes ; put them m cold water, and mayonnaise 
when cool take the yolks and mash them to a '^^^'''s^- 
paste. Now take two ounces of freshest butter ; let it get soft 
enough to beat it to a cream (always beating in the same 
direction). Add to it, httle by httle, the above egg; and 
afterward, also very gradually, the raw yolks of three eggs, 
stirring vigorously all the time. See that the raw eggs are not 
cold, lest your butter should curdle. If it does, add the raw 
yolk of another egg. Add salt and vinegar (or lemon juice) 
to taste. If the mixture has not enough consistency, add some 
olive oil, drop by drop. 

Another very excellent recipe is this : Take four raw yolks 
and put them into a porcelain dish. Place this dish on ice. 
Stir into the yolks half a pint of olive oil by taking a teaspoon- 
ful at a time and allowing it to mix drop by drop with the egg. 
Just as soon as the latter begins to thicken, add a few drops 
of lemon juice ; then proceed to mix in another teaspoonful 
of oil and more of the lemon juice, until all the oil is absorbed. 
The occasional adding of the lemon juice prevents the curdling 
of the sauce. Add salt to taste, and, if you like, a little tarragon 
vinegar. Keep in a cold place until used. 

For a quickly made mayonnaise I can recommend the fol- 
lowing recipe :  

Take the yolks of two eggs and the juice of half a lemon. 
Stir until thickening, when add salt, oil, and vinegar in pro- 
portions given above. If made in this way you need not 
be particular about adding the oil drop by drop : be care- 
ful only not to add it in larger quantities than a teaspoonful 



154 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

at a time. This is the best mayonnaise dressing for green 
salads. 

All these recipes you had better follow closely at first, until 
by and by you may vary them at your needs, or as your 
inspiration leads you. 

A slight addition of wine is often a great improvement. 
Some experts also will put a small piece of brown or rye bread 
in the bottom of the dish to give a peculiar flavor to the 
salad, and for those who like a taste of onion, or garhc, you 
may either rub the bread or the sides of the salad-dish with a 
slice of onion or a bit of garlic. These little fine touches, and 
how and when to apply, you have to learn by yourself. This 
is the case also in regard to mixed salads, for which I will give 
you a few recipes merely as suggestions upon which to produce 
your own variations and "compositions." 

I begin with some plain ones and keep the more elaborate 
recipes for the last : Take some endives, well blanched ; sepa- 
rate the branches from the stem, cleanse and rinse well, then 
put in warm water for a short time. Drain well, and arrange 
in the centre of a salad-bowl. Then surround it with water- 
cress dressed beforehand in the shape of a wreath. Finish the 
dish with an outside rim of beet salad. 

The latter ought to be always at hand in your store-closet. 
In winter, when green salad is scarce, beets can be resorted to. 
^ ,. . . They make a salad, either by themselves, or in 

Combinations in ^ , ' ' 

salads, and how Combination with potatoes, celery root, meat, or 
o pic e ees. ^^^ Take for this purpose the large, dark red 
beets, and boil them as indicated in my instructions on vege- 
tables.^ When cool, peel them and cut them into slices a 
quarter of an inch thick. Have a stone jar ready, and place 
into it your beets layer-wise, putting between each layer a few 
scraps of horse-radish, and two or three black pepper seeds. 
Pour boiling vinegar enough over the whole to cover it. It will 
keep for months, if put in a cool place. When needed for use, 
take out with a silver fork the desired number of slices, and dress 
with salt, vinegar, and oil. 

1 See p. 121. 



LETTER XVIII 155 

A combined beet and celery root salad is very palatable. 
Boil the latter, after cleansing it well, in slightly salted water. 
Do not let it get too tender. Drain and remove all specks and 
fibrous matter on the outside. Cut into slices like beets, and 
pour over them while still warm a dressing of a good deal of 
oil and vinegar, and a sprinkle of pepper and salt. If kept in 
a cool place, this salad will keep for two or three days. 

Celery root, on the other hand, combines well with red 
cabbage, which you shred as fine as possible after removing 
the thick ribs. Mix into it a plain dressing. Do ^bout cabbage 
it a few hours before use, which will improve the ^^'^^s. 
salad. Heap up the cabbage in the middle of a dish, and let 
the wheels of celery root form the outer rim. This, also, is a 
nice winter salad, when green things fail or are too high- 
priced. 

A cheap salad is made of white cabbage. Take a firm head 
only. For a family of three, one-quarter of it will be sufficient 
to make a good dishful. Shred it fine, and, if very young, 
dress it a couple of hours before meal-time with a plain dress- 
ing. Some boiled potatoes sliced and minced with it are a 
good addition. You may also combine white and red cabbage 
in different rims, and have the potato salad in the centre. In 
winter, when cabbage is old, it is better to scald the white 
cabbage by pouring over it some boiling water, in which to 
leave it for about fifteen minutes. Then drain the water off, 
and pour over your shredded cabbage, while still warm, the 
mayonnaise dressing quickly made, for which I gave you 
the recipe. This is a slight variation on the " cold slaw " (the 
proper name in Dutch is koo/sla), known among our country 
population, especially in Pennsylvania. 

Other vegetables, also, may be appropriated for salads after 
they are boiled. Some roses of cauliflower left over, some 
asparagus, strinff-beans, even carrots, green peas, 

,,*'.' ^ '  , , , Boiled vegetables 

and dried beans, you may use, either by them- forsaiad, and 
selves or in combination, for an attractive-looking 
salad. Be sure, however, to have all these vegetables dressed 
a while beforehand, in order to have them impregnated by 



156 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

their dressing. If you omit this, they will taste flat. And 
never have them icy cold. It kills their flavor. A certain 
medium between cold and warm favors them best. Keep the 
latter rules in mind, also, for potato salad, for which I will give 
you some recipes in my next letter. For the present I close 
with one more recipe  and a very good one  for a com- 
bination salad, which will at the same time teach you a few 
more things. 

Take cucumbers, string-beans, and lettuce of equal propor- 
tions. Peel and slice cucumbers from the stem downward. 
,, ^ When you s^et near the end, taste it to see that it 

An excellent _ . . 

combination is Dot bitter : it is generally the end only which is 

salad, and how , i -i ,  r ^ i 

to treat apt to DC SO, whilc the rest is perfectly good. Slice 

them very thin. Do not follow the old-fashioned 
way of salting the slices and extracting the juice. The latter 
is the only really useful and digestible part of the cucumber and 
the very substance of it which is so refreshing and cooling 
when eaten. The rest is merely fibrous matter. On account 
of its highly cooling quality, the cucumber sometimes causes 
catarrh of the stomach ; therefore do not increase this danger 
by chilling it through contact with ice, but rather alleviate it 
by a free use of pepper. Use cucumbers only which you 
know are fresh, and prepare them just before dinner. The 
string-beans must be fresh also and very young. String them 
well on both sides, and, after washing them, throw them 
into boiling water, slightly salted, and boil until just tender. 
Then drain, and cut into lozenge-shaped pieces one or two 
inches long. Dress them while warm with oil, salt, and vinegar. 
Do it a couple of hours before meal-time, and when arranging 
your salad for the table remove the beans to the salad-bowl 
without their dressing. Stir into the latter one or two grated 
potatoes boiled the day before, and use it with some additional 
oil, salt, and vinegar for the dressing of your well-arranged 
dishful of the above ingredients. 



LETTER XIX 

Let none assume the art of entertaining at table, 
If he has not penetrated into the secret of tastes. 

 Horace. 

WHEN I began to tell you about salads, I meant to have 
done with them in one letter. But very soon I found 
that to do it justice, and instruct you thoroughly, another letter 
would have to be written. If I read your mind rightly, you 
will submit to this infliction with grace  I hope, maybe, with 
gladness. 

Now, to lose no time, I at once proceed to teach you how 
to make the homely potato salad, which during the last thirty 
years has found so many friends in our country. 

1 r n Various ways of 

It serves as a base for a number of excellent making a potato 
combinations. There are two ways of making 
a potato salad : one is to have it in distinct slices, when 
you have to make it of cold boiled potatoes ; the other is to 
slice and dress the potatoes while hot, which is rather apt to 
break up the slices into smaller fragments. The latter method 
renders the salad mellower, and certainly wholesomer than the 
former. Yet this is rather a matter of taste. It is my way of 
doing. In either case you have to take potatoes of a certain 
firmness  I mean not too mealy  and boil them in their 
jackets. When drained, peel and slice them into a rather flat 
dish, and pour over them enough of hot meat broth to moisten 
them. It gives them a better flavor, and makes them more 
nourishing. Cover them up and let them steep for about five 
minutes. Have a little onion minced fine, add it to the 
potatoes, and dress the latter now with plenty of vinegar, oil, 
pepper, and salt. Add the vinegar before the oil. To mix the 
salad without breaking it up too much, place a platter over 

157 



15S LETTERS TO A VOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

the dish which holds the salad, and give it a good tossing. 
Then remove the salad into the dish you mean to serve it 
in, and trim it according to your fancy. To vary the dress- 
ing, add a teaspoonful of French mustard, or some capers, or 
both. Or replace half of the vinegar by as much claret. In 
that case, beets cut in small dice are a good addition. So are, 
at another time, white celery stalks cut into shreds. A sprinkle 
of minced parsley will accentuate the color and flavor. Part 
of a salt herring, skinned and boned, and cut into small dice, 
will give to potato salad a pleasant piquancy, as will also pickled 
cucumbers cut into shreds. There are, in fact, very few things 
which you cannot add to a potato salad. This makes it an 
economical one, since remnants of food will serve for its 
composition. 

Potatoes are necessary also for an Italian and a Portuguese 
A Portuguese salad. For the latter take stewed mushrooms, 
"'^'^^ boiled potatoes, and raw tomatoes. Cut into thin 

slices ; dress with oil, salt, and pepper, and add last of all a 
small glassful of sherry, but no vinegar. 

The following is one of a number of recipes for "Italian 
salad " : Take boiled potatoes, sour apples, pickled cucumbers, 
. ., .. , , and cooked veal (one cup of each) ; cut into 
small dice. Add half a cupful of beets, three 
hard-boiled eggs, and ten anchovies, also cut into dice. Mix 
all this with one and a half cupfuls of oil, one small glassful of 
sherry, one to two tablespoonfuls of tarragon vinegar, salt, and 
pepper. Cover up the whole and allow it to stand in a cool 
place for about three hours ; then mix it once more thoroughly, 
put it in your salad-dish and garnish with anchovies, pickles, 
capers, and corned beef or ham cut into even shreds. 

The following is an excellent appetizer : Take the breast 
of a roast chicken, one salt herrinsj, one anchovv, 

An appetizer. ^ '=" _ ' ' 

some boiled ham or tongue, and two hard-boiled 
eggs ; chop fine and dress with oil and vinegar. 

I must not fail to give you the recipe for a real sardine salad. 
The sardines needed for it are the salted ones, which come in 
little kegs and are sold by weight. For a large dishful of salad 



LETTER XIX 159 

take half a pound of them. Soak them in water for about an 
hour, changing the water several times. Then divide them 
into halves by pulling them apart from head downward, remov- 
ing the spine. Take about half of the filets thus obtained, and 
cut them into narrow strips an inch and a half long. The rest 
you roll up turban-shaped, and set aside for garnishing. Take 
also small gherkins, pickled mushrooms, crayfish-tails (which 
come in little glass jars), smoked salmon, some mixed pickles, 
and cut them likewise into strips. Add capers, and mix the 
whole with oil and vinegar. Heap it up on a salad-dish, and 
garnish with small triangles of smoked salmon, the sardines 
rolled up, capers, pickled cherries, stoned olives, and pickled 
oysters,^ finishing at the base with a rim of boiled tongue cut 
in imitation of cocks' combs, alternating with thin slices of 
lemon similarly frayed. 

As a sample fish salad I will give you a Venetian one : Take 
two herrings out of brine, and after they have been well soaked, 
skin and bone them ; take also one pound of Venetian fish ^ 
pickled eel, half a pound of salted sardines, which "'^'^ 
soak and then halve, and cut all this into small dice. Mix 
with part of a mayonnaise sauce. Now take the middle piece 
of a cauliflower, a handful of tiny green peas, about as much 
of small string-beans, and boil in salted water until done. Take 
half a carrot, and a small celery root, slice them, and with a 
tube cut them into cylindrical pieces as large as your peas. 
Boil them also until tender. Then drain, and cool them off in 
cold water, drain again, and dress all these vegetables with oil, 
salt, and vinegar. Now heap up your mayonnaise salad in the 
centre of a dish, cover it up with more mayonnaise sauce, and 
trim it all over with your vegetables, arranging them symmetri- 
cally and well assorted as to color. Place the cauliflower on 
the very top, and garnish the edge of the salad with quarters 
of hard-boiled eggs, allowing their whites only to show. 

Now, suppose you take boiled salmon (canned will do pretty 
nearly as well) instead of salt and pickled fish, as above, and you 

1 See p. 20I. 



IGO LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

will have an extremely nice variation. Salmon harmonizes par- 
ticularly well with mayonnaise, and if you relieve it by a rim 
. , , _, of crisp, green lettuce leaves, and inside of it 

A salmon salad. i ' o j 

put a border of broken-up amber-colored aspic, 
you will have a most refined as well as a beautiful-looking 
dish of salad. By adding to a mayonnaise for salmon a Httle 
anchovy paste or essence, you will give it a slight piquancy, 
well in accord with that fish. Instead of salmon, any other 
kind of cooked fish will do for a salad ; and a sauce ta7'tare, 
ravigote ^ or remoulade ^ will serve instead of a mayonnaise. 

If you wish to try a lobster salad, ask your fish dealer for a 

female lobster. Take the eggs,  which will give a fine flavor 

^ , ^ ^ , ^ and color to your dressinsr,  pound them in a 

A lobster salad. . -' . '' 

mortar with as much oil as they will take up, 
and add them either to a mavonnaise or the followinsr dress- 
ing : Rub to a paste the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs, add 
three tablespoonfuls of oil, one tablespoonful of tarragon vine- 
gar, a teaspoonful of English mustard, two or three minced 
shallots, a teaspoonful of minced tarragon leaves, salt to taste, 
and a sprinkle of white pepper. If not acid enough add some 
lemon juice, and stir the whole until thoroughly mixed and 
smooth. Cut your lobster into small pieces, saving some of 
the claws for garnishing, dust them over with a very little salt 
and white pepper, and pour over them some tarragon vinegar. 
Let them stand for about an hour ; then heap up on a flat dish, 
pour the dressing (which meanwhile has been kept on ice) 
over and around the lobster. Then trim, using crisp lettuce, 
or endive, stoned olives, slices of hard-boiled eggs, tiny pickled 
cucumbers, capers, etc., etc. I might suggest here also for an 
outer rim to use nasturtium flowers arranged wreath-like, and 
leave it for you to go on improving on this suggestion. 

You know already how good a salad can be made of cooked 
vegetables. You may dress it plain or with a mayonnaise. In 
the latter case I advise to have the dressing served separately, 
while the vegetables are kept in a marinade of lemon juice and 

1 See p. 74. 2 See p. 134. 



LETTER XIX 161 

salt for about an hour's time, and then drained, previous to 
servinsr. In Switzerland the carrots boiled with the meat are 
frequently served as a plain salad with the bouilli, cooked vegetable 
the boiled beef, and eaten while still warm. They ^^'^"^" 
are quite good. But a plain vegetable salad served to us at 
a cosey little restaurant at Paris, at a time when the Anglo- 
Saxons had not invaded its secluded precincts, was by far a 
superior one. It consisted of green peas, carrots, and celery 
root, the two latter cut into very small dice, which were 
arranged in three sections of a circle, running to a point in 
the centre. A mayonnaise would have completely hidden this 
pretty effect of geometry and color; but it might have been 
a tasty accessory, if it had been served with it. We, however, 
did not miss it, for it was palatable enough without. I w^ould 
suggest to improve this salad, by placing some roses of cauli- 
flower  put together like the centre of a head  in the middle, 
and then having the other vegetables start from this centre 
piece, widening towards the rim of the dish. You might try 
this some day when you have some cauliflower left over. Then, 
in winter, when an open can of vegetables will keep for several 
days, you might take some green peas from one can, some 
string-beans from another, some asparagus tops from a third, 
a carrot from the soup-kettle, and a boiled potato from the 
day before, cut and trim it all in the right shape, and you 
would have a salad in a very short time, and at little expense. 

Still another variation is the salad a la Nosfiz,  called after 
a German nobleman : Take equal quantities of asparagus tops 
and roses of cauliflower, about half the quantity of young 
string-beans cut into lozenge-shaped pieces, and as much of 
carrots and celery root, cut into small dice. Boil all these in 
salted water until tender, drain and cover them with vinegar 
and oil dressing, then set them aside for an hour. Take 
meanwhile about half a dozen heads of lettuce and remove all 
the leaves, making use only of their firm and white hearts. 
Dress them separately with plain French dressing. Put them in 
the centre of a salad-dish, and arrange around them the 
cooked vegetables. Garnish the whole with hard-boiled eggs 



102 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

cut into quarters, and with claws of lobster. Cover with a 
mayonnaise sauce. 

The Dumas, father and son, have been inventors of salads. 

To the Japanese salad of the younger Dumas is attached both 

literary and culinary celebrity. It belongs to the extravagant 

ones, which are not within the scope of my advice. But as a 

f-iir sample of a Dumas salad I orive you this 

A Dumas salad. , -^ o y 

recipe : Take one egg for each person, and boil 
hard the number needed. Rub the yolks to a paste ; chop 
the whites, and mix both with a spoonful of minced chervil. 
Add some French mustard dissolved in a little vinegar, oil, 
pepper, and salt. Cut into fine shreds a pickled cucumber, an 
anchovy or two, a small red beet, to which add some capers. 
Finally have some crisp lettuce washed and well drained, mix 
all together and serve. 

Of all meat salads, that made of chicken or turkey is the 
best. To be economical, however, you can take part veal or, 
_^. , , , better still, rabbit, and mix with the former. It 

Chicken salad, _ ' ' 

will hardly be detected. Take equal parts of 
meat cooked tender and cut into dice. Cut celery stalks into 
thin pieces. Keep some of the tender white celery leaves for 
garnishing. Mix the meat and celery, add a good sprinkle of 
salt, a little white pepper, and the juice of a lemon. Let stand 
for about two or three hours in a cool place. Make a thick 
mayonnaise, adding some cream at the last to make it as white 
as possible. Take a few tablespoonfuls of it to mix with the 
salad, which heap on a dish, and cover with the rest of the 
mayonnaise. Garnish with celery and lettuce leaves, beets, 
stoned olives, capers, little pickled cucumbers, or anything else 
that will be pleasing. 

Any other cold meat will make a nice salad. You can mix 
Avith it almost any pickled fish, cucumbers, beets, as well as 
other varieties of potatocs, hcrbs, mushrooms, etc. A bit of dark 
meat salad. meat Icft ovcr is speedily transformed into a nice 

salad by cutting it into small dice or thin shreds, and making 
a dressing for it of a saltspoonful of mustard, a tablespoonful 
of sour cream, two tablespoonfuls of vinegar, some pepper, 



LErrER XIX 163 

salt, a bit of minced onion, minced tarragon, and any other 
herb you may have at hand. Trim with peppergrass or water- 
cress if convenient. 

I was about to close, when it occurred to me that in all these 
pages I have mentioned tomatoes but once (in the Portu- 
guese salad). It does not require, to be sure, any especial art 
to slice tomatoes, and pour over them a plain dressing or a 
mayonnaise. Still, it would seem to me that I ought to give 
you a few hints about making a perfect tomato salad. Select 
firm ripe tomatoes of equal size. Pour boilinsr ^ 

^ ^ . Tomato salad. 

water over them, and after a few minutes change 
to cold water. Peel them, and cut out the hard parts of the 
stem with a sharp, pointed knife. Then place the tomatoes on 
ice to get thoroughly cold, and, just before serving, sUce them 
with a very sharp knife, and not too thin. Place the slices in 
a glass dish, sprinkle them thick with salt and some pepper, and 
pour over them oil and vinegar in great moderation. In the 
South of Europe the bottom, and sides of the dish in which 
tomato salad is served are rubbed with the inside of a halved 
clove of garlic. A mixed salad of tomatoes and lettuce has 
found great favor of late years, and is so delightful to look at 
that we often do not realize the actual incongruity between 
the two as to flavor and taste. Their union is improved, how- 
ever, by the binding quality of a thick mayonnaise. A very 
pretty way to serve the three combined is to take a flat dish, 
place the skinned and cold tomatoes on it whole, each on some 
crisp leaves of lettuce curling around it, while the top of the 
tomato is hooded with a teaspoonful of thick mayonnaise. 

If, after all the foregoing, you are in need of a deep breath 
of relief, I am ready to grant it by closing this long chapter on 
salads. 



Carboh. 


Fats. 


Water. 


M 


IXERALS. 


o.o 


I2.0 


74-5 




I.O 


O.O 


O.O 


87.5 




0-5 


O.O 


30.0 


51-5 




1.0 



LETTER XX 



Man cannot accomplish much on an empty stomach. 

 German Proverb. 

YOU have been waiting patiently all this while for a lesson on 
eggs,  this very important article of food. For its com- 
Food value of ponents are not very different from those of fairly 
^s^^- well-fed beef. In the white we get mostly albu- 

minous substance, in the yolk chiefly the fat contained in the 
egg. The minerals are principally sulphur and phosphate of 
lime. But I had better give you a little table to make it more 
comprehensible and exact :  

Album. 
Eggs (whole) .. 12.5 

Whites 1 1.0 

Yolks 16.0 

Dr. Wiel says that a man can hold his own on a daily diet of 
eight eggs and four-fifths of a pound of bread. This ought to 
be taken into consideration by the provider of a family. Eggs 
are also easily digested, if not cooked too much, 
wh'ich^o'^'cook'" They are best when boiled soft. A good diges- 
tf^do tt""^ ^'^ ^^^^' however, can manage even hard-boiled eggs. 
The former need three minutes' boiling if put into 
boiling water ; the latter five minutes. If you wish them neither 
too soft nor too hard, allow them four minutes. Eggs to be 
used for mayonnaise or to be stuffed, have to be boiled ten to 
fifteen minutes. All this, however, is no sure guide in cold 
weather, unless the eggs have been allowed to remain in a warm 
place for a while beforehand, to take off the chill. 

Try your eggs as to freshness before you boil them ; put 
them into cold water, and if they sink to the bottom they are 
164 



LEITER XX 1G5 

fresh. An egg more than a week old will not sink, but swim 
on top. Wash and clean them before boiling. This is very- 
important, because the dirt chnging to them will enter the 
inside through the many small pores of the shell. When in 
doubt as to their freshness, it is best to open your eggs and 
use them for poaching, frying, scrambling, etc. They will thus 
furnish you with the daintiest of breakfast dishes. 

To poach eggs take a wide, flat stew-pan and put into it one 
quart of water, one cupful of vinegar, one tablespoonful of salt; 
when it comes to a boil, open your eggs one by one into a cup ; 
drop them into the boiling water ; but not more than two or 
three at a time. Take a spoon, and try to keep each egg in 
shape, by pushing the whites toward the yolk. As soon as the 
whites are firm, take out the eggs carefully with a skimmer. 
Place each on a slice of buttered toast. Now, if you have a 
tomato sauce at hand, and pour it around the eggs and toast, 
you will have a most delicious dish to serve. But you may 
also pour hot milk over the toast, in which some butter has 
been melted, and, of course, omit the tomato sauce. 

Fried eggs are best and nicest done in little egg-moulds, 
which are made for the purpose. They come in pairs or 
threes, and so on up to six and more. I have a mould of six, 
and if I have fewer eggs to fry, I fill the other forms with 
water. Put a tiny little piece of butter in each mould, drop 
in the egg^, and, while cooking, loosen the whites at the edges 
every few seconds to prevent the under side from getting too 
much done. Sprinkle the eggs with salt  and pepper, if you 
like. As soon as the whites are firm, take out the eggs with a 
spoon. They are nice with spinach, sorrel, and green salads, 
the acids of the two latter, especially, helping to digest the 
albuminous matter of the egg, each one complementing the 
other in a very desirable and palatable way. 

For ''panned eggs," take a porcelain pie-plate, butter it, 
pour in thick cream enough to fill it half full, drop in some 
eggs (four or five) side by side : place on each  

^ ^ ^ J ^ r Panned eggs. 

yolk a few capers ; dust over them some minced 

parsley (or cives) and some fine bread-crumbs, and put flakes 



166 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

of butter here and there. Place in the oven and let the eggs 

get firm and slightly brown on top. 

For *' eggs on shells," butter some scallop-shells, fill them 

partly full with smoked salmon or bloaters cut in small dice, 

, ,, and drop an esfCf on top of each without break- 
Eggs on shells. ^ '-'^ , ^ 

ing the yolk. Put in the oven until the whites 
have set, and serve at once. 

And now you want to try your hand at an omelet. This is 
no easy undertaking, but I do not see why you should be less 
How -to make an successful than othcrs who have tried and come 
omelet. q^|. yictorious. First of all, have a good, brisk 

fire, and a frying-pan well heated. Break your eggs into 
a basin, add a small pinch of salt, and a teaspoonful 
of cream (or milk) for each one. Whisk them until whites 
and yolks are mixed ; it makes the omelet light. Put a piece 
of butter (very fresh) the size of half an egg for every three or 
four eggs into your pan, and when sizzling hot pour in your 
eggs. Be quick now, and shake your pan with one hand, 
while with the other, holding a silver fork, you turn up the egg 
which is coagulating. When every part is equally cooked and 
creamy, you allow the eggs at the bottom to get firm, but not 
brown. To prevent the latter you have to keep shaking the 
pan, and with it the omelet, which must stay creamy on top. 
Then with a spatula you turn one-half of the omelet over the 
other half and, placing a hot plate over your pan, you toss 
your omelet upside down into the middle of the plate. Thus 
you will have the omelet ^^ charniie et doree " (fleshy and golden 
yellow), of which a French poet sings. 

This plain omelet you can diversify in very many ways, of 
which I mention a few to indicate how to do it. Make thus 
A variety of ^^^ omclet aiix fiiies herbes : Mince some parsley, 

^'^^'^^^^ tarragon, and shallots  or parsley and cives  

and mix with your eggs. Or chop fine equal quantities of 
spinach, sorrel, parsley, chervil, and cives ; saute them for a 
few minutes in a little butter, let them get cool, and then 
add your eggs before making the omelet. For an omelet 
with bloaters, skin and take the bones out of a fine Yarmouth 



LETTER XX 167 

bloater; cut the flesh in tiny dice. ]\Iix it with some parsley 
and one shallot minced, which slightly satite beforehand in 
a little butter. Then moisten the whole with one tablespoonful 
of brown gravy, heat it up and place it in the middle of your 
omelet before turning it over. 

Here is an omelet with bacon : For four eggs take two 
ounces of breakfast bacon, cut it into small dice, saute it until 
light brown, and mix with your eggs before baking. And here 
is an omelet with tomatoes a la Proveiiqale : Take two middle- 
sized, very firm tomatoes, and cut them into dice. Put one 
teaspoonful of minced onion into a frying-pan in which you 
hav^e heated one teaspoonful of butter and one of olive oil. 
As soon as the onion turns yellow, add the tomatoes. Cook 
them on a quick fire until their watery substance is somewhat 
reduced ; then season them with salt and pepper, and lastly 
add a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, with a taste of garlic 
(the latter to be obtained by rubbing the board, on which the 
parsley is chopped, with the inside of a clove of garhc). Make 
an omelet of five eggs for the above. The recipe says to take 
olive oil for it, but in our country I prefer to take butter. Put 
the tomato in the middle of the omelet, and take care when 
you fold it that the rims are closed tightly. Serve it on an 
oval dish, with parsley or water-cress around. 

After you have mastered these different omelets, you will be 
able, with a little thought, to make any other kind you wish, 
only taking care that the ingredients blend. Such are : ham, 
kidneys, mushrooms (all cut into small dice), green peas, 
asparagus points, and others. All these, suitable for omelets, 
will do also for stirred (or scrambled) eggs. I prefer the 
latter to the former for every-day fare, because they are quicker 
done  can, in fact, be cooked in a chafing-dish at table, where 
they are best, because served as soon as done. 

Stirred eggs also are more wholesome than omelet, which 
requires more butter to get it perfected, and does not permit 
the same creamy consistency of the &gg all through 
it. This is the recipe for stirred eggs : Break the '"^ ^^^^" 
eggs into a bowl, add a little pinch of salt and a scant table- 



f 



168 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

Spoonful of milk for each ^%%. Give it two vigorous beats for 
each egg, with a spoon ; melt a little butter  about the size 
of a small hazel-nut  for each t%% in a hot pan ; pour in 
your eggs, and with a spoon loosen them from the bottom as 
soon as they begin to thicken ; do it only in one direction, 
toward the handle of the pan (which you hold with your left 
hand), and each time in another place. In this way your eggs 
turn out in large flakes, as they should. Remove them from the 
fire just before the eggs are all coagulated and while some liquid 
is left. Unless you catch this very moment, your eggs will be 
either too soft or too hard for perfection. Whatever ingredi- 
ents you wish to add you mix with your eggs while raw ; or 
put them into the melted butter first, and then pour in the 

per or 

A nice way to serve stirred eggs is to heap them in the 
middle of a platter, and garnish them all around with thin 
slices of smoked salmon, which have been dipped into melted 
butter and then allowed to saute slightly on a slow fire. 

After you have mastered the omelet, it will be easy for you 
to produce a nice, tender Roman /r/Az/a and wafer-like pan- 
A Roman cakcs. Here are the recipes : Yoxfritata, whisk 

fr'tata. ^^y^ qj. gjx eggs until light ; add two tablespoonfuls 

of raw ham cut in small dice or chopped coarsely, some 
minced parsley, or parsley and cives. Pour the mixture into a 
hot pan, in which a good-sized piece of butter has been heated. 
Shake to prevent its sticking, and when slightly brown on one 
side, turn it with the help of a warm plate, and brown also on 
the other side. The fritata ought to be thick, not thin like a 
pancake ; the pan, therefore, must be of small circumference 
for the quantity given above. 

As for the pancakes, a small iron frying-pan is the best to 
bake them in. To make four or five pancakes, take half a pint 
of milk, three eggs, about four tablespoonfuls of flour, and a 
litde salt. If the batter is too thin, add a litde more flour. 
Whisk until light. Put a piece of butter the size of a walnut 
into your pan, and when quite hot, pour into it about a cupful 
of the batter. Shake it ; and from time to time hft it at the 



LETTER XX 169 

edges with the round point of a knife to prevent its sticking. 
When hght brown on the lower side, give the cake a toss with 
the pan to flin^ it upside down,  this is the correct 

^ , , ,  1  Pancakes. 

way ; but as long as you have not practised it, you 
had better turn your cake with the help of a plate. Slip 
another little piece of butter  about half the quantity as 
before  under the turned cake and let it get light brown. 
Put it on a hot plate, and place it where it will keep hot. Put 
the other cakes on top of it as they are finished, and serv^e. 
If you wish your pancakes sweet, add a tablespoonful of sugar 
to the above quantity. This recipe is a first-rate one. You 
can make very good pancakes, however, by taking but one or 
two eggs for the same amount. I have even made them 
in winter with a few heaped tablespoonfuls of clean snow 
and no egg at all. They were pale, to be sure, but light 
and good. 

A very nice dish for breakfast or luncheon is the follow- 
ing: 

Pancakes Filled with Meat.  Mix, for pancakes, three-quar- 
ters of a pint of flour, three eggs, two tablespoonfuls of olive 
oil (the very best), a little salt, one tablespoonful of brandy, 
and half milk, half water, to get a batter not too 

1   11 IT  ^ r Pancakes 

thin. After beating it well allow it to stand for fined with 
two or three hours. When baked let the pancakes "^^^ ' 
get cold. Meanwhile take some remnants of any kind of meat 
(or of several kinds), chop them fine ; mince one small onion 
(or a shallot), some parsley, and a little cives. Take a htde 
piece of butter, heat it in a pan ; put in the onion first, and 
when it gets light brown, add the meat, parsley, and cives. 
Stir until hot. Allow this hash, too, to get cold. Then spread 
one or two tablespoonfuls of it on each pancake and roll it up 
so as to make it look like a sausage. Now heat some butter 
in a pan, put the rolled pancakes in, side by side, and brown 
them slowly all around. Do it only just before serving, allow- 
ing about fifteen to tw^enty minutes to sai/te them. They must 
be very hot when served. They are excellent with a tomato 
sauce, or even with plain stewed tomatoes. 



170 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

For a mere relish I can recommend the following :  
Farcied Eggs a la Fauvel.  Boil eggs hard ; put them in 
cold water ; they will shell better. Take them out before 
quite cold, and when shelled, cut off the tips in 

Farcied eggs, ^ ' ' ' . 

order to stand them up ; then cut them mto 
halves, take out the still warm yolks ; mash them ; mix them 
with some oil, a very little vinegar, season with salt and 
pepper, add a taste of onion, and a little minced parsley. The 
mixture must be stiff and smooth. Fill it back into the whites 
and serve nicely garnished. I call them "Fauvel" after an 
American boy in England, who taught me this recipe. 

There is one combination  that of eggs and cheese  in 

favor of which I can merely say that it is a very 

About cheese. ' ' , , 

palatable one. For, although rich m nutrn-nents, 
as the following table will show you, it seems somehow to 
be in league with nightmares. 

Album. 

Cheese, rich 25.0 

" middling rich . 27.2 
" least rich 30,0 

Although cheese is prized as a digester, it is equally certain 

that " cheese digests everything but itself." If, however, a kind 

^ , is used which is neither too rich nor too poor (such 

A fondue. '' . 

as Parmesan, Gruyere, Chester, or our American 
imitation of the latter), and great care is taken to cook it no 
more than just to melt it, the dishes made partly of cheese 
may be partaken of with impunity by persons of tolerably good 
digestion. I give you a few recipes because your husband, 
like other men of intellect, may be fond of such piquant deli- 
cacies : For a fondue take three eggs, beat them well ; add 
two ounces of grated Gruyere, one ounce of melted butter, and 
one tablespoonful of cream. Pour the butter into the cream 
to cool it, before adding to the cheese and eggs. After it is 
well mixed, pour the whole into a china ^r^//;z-dish  or into 
little paper boxes  and put into a slow oven until of the 
firmness of custard. Serve immediately. 



Carboh. 


Fats. 


Water. 


Minerals. 


2.2 


29.0 


39-2 


4.6 


1-5 


237 


43-2 


4.4 


5-1 


134 


46.5 


5-0 



LETTER XX 171 

This is not the famous fondu of Brillat-Savarin, which you 
find in most cook-books of modern date, but equally good if 
done with due care. 

To Toast Cheese.  Take three eggs, a cupful of milk, and a 
teaspoonful of flour ; beat and mix well. Melt a small piece 
of butter in a skillet ; put in about two ounces of ^ , _, ^ 

' ^ Toasted cheese. 

cheese cut into thin slices ; pour the above mix- 
ture over it (it ought just to cover the cheese) and stir over a 
slow fire until the cheese is melted and the mixture has thick- 
ened. You can do this in a chafing-dish at the table, which 
will insure its success. In Chester County, Penn., I have eaten 
this dish mixed with "cottage cheese" (curds), instead of 
flour, which is a great improvement. In this case more of 
the cottage cheese and less of the real cheese is to be 
taken. 

For ramequins, put a tablespoonful of butter into a gratin- y 
dish, then a layer of bread cut into thin slices \ on top of it 
put a layer of sliced cheese, and over the whole  

^ -' ' Ramequins. 

pour a mixture of three eggs and a cupful of milk. 
Bake in the oven until light brown on top. It needs very little 
heat underneath and ought to brown in fifteen minutes. It is 
delicious if the oven is in the right condition. 

You would not wish me to continue, and give you all the 
543 difl"erent dishes made of eggs which Grimod invented, or 
tell you how J. J. Rousseau excelled in cooking eggs in various 
ways, nor of the dish of eggs the Duke of Soubise placed 
before Louis XV., which cost him 75 /ouis d'or. I hear you 
say, " Oh, no, please do not." 

I might now leave you to your own devices altogether ; for I 
believe you are equipped sufficiently with material to furnish 
your table so as to please a capricious as well as a rational 
stomach, and at the same time provide what is needed to keep 
the physical and spiritual man alive and in good condition. 
But I have said nothing as yet of desserts, and although in my 
opinion fruit is the best dessert at all times, to which ices 
and cream may be added on special occasions, you do wish 
to know of, at least, a restricted number of light desserts. 



172 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

Some of them are quite wholesome. They also are the means 
of adding agreeably to the necessary variety in our daily 
food, and as such, as well as in an economical view, are 
even to be recommended. For to-day, however, I will not 
keep your attention any longer, but close this already too am- 
phfied epistle. 



LETTER XXI 

Lo, as at English feasts, so I regreet 

The daintiest last, to make the end most sweet, 

 Shakespeare. 

IF I am opposed to pies and heavy puddings, it is principally 
for hygienic reasons. But, aside from this, I deem them 
wasteful, inasmuch as the outlay for their production far ex- 
ceeds the nourishment derived from them for the human sys- 
tem. To make good pies and all the old-fashioned English 
puddings, we need much butter, suet, raisins, almonds, and 
similar fruit, all of which is high-priced, and sure to tax one's 
digestive powers. And you know that only such food nour- 
ishes as is properly digested. It is different, however, with the 
lighter kinds of farinaceous food, and all the delightful trifles I 
comprise under the head of light desserts. To prepare them 
we use milk, eggs, cereals, and fresh fruit,  all of them nourish- 
ing, pleasant to the palate, and easily digested. If any fat is 
needed for their production, it is butter, and not much of it. 
You will remember that in indicating to you the daily rations 
for adults, I mentioned Professor C. Voit's dictum^ that the 
required 6.9 ounces of pure muscle (m.eat) can be valuation of food- 
replaced by dairy produce and e^crs. I would matters for light 

^ 1 desserts. 

advise that, especially m hot summer weather, a 
more frequent use should be made of this sort of diet. To 
give you a comparative idea of the food-values you would thus 
deal with, I note down the following schedule :  

Album. Carboh. Fats. Water, matters Cellulose. 

Eggs 12.5 0.0 12.0 74.5 i.o 0.0 

Milk (new) .... 3.4 4.8 3.6 87.5 0.7 0.0 

" (skimmed) 3.1 4.8 0.7 90.7 0.7 0.0 

Butter 0.6 0.6 %i.i 14.5 1.0 0.0 

173 



174 LETTERS TO A VOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

Album. Carboh. Fats. Water, m.^ters Cellulose. 

Wheat flour 10.5 72.5 1.5 14.5 i.o 0,5 

" bread . . 7.0 55.2 0.5 36.0 i.o 0.3 

Cornstarch 1.0 83.6 15.0 0.4 

Farina 1 1.0 71.5 1. 5 15.0 0.5 0.5 

Rice 8.0 76.5 1,0 13.0 I.O 0.5 

Sugar 99.0 1.0 

Fruit (fresh) ... 0.5 lo.o 85.0 0.5 4.0 

" (dried)... 2.5 55.0 1.0 30.0 1.5 lO.O 



You will find some repetitions in the above, while other sub- 
stances are added to aid you in gaining a clearer valuation of 
The most eco- the foods employed in the following recipes. I 
nomicai dessert, 'begin with the simplest and at the same time 
the most economical of all desserts  with a German recipe 
for Arme Ritter, poor knights, dating from the middle ages, 
when it sometimes was also called " Beggar- man." Let us sup- 
pose that since then it has gained by transformation ; but, at 
any rate, I never saw it go begging when placed on the family 
table. I make it when slices of stale bread have accumulated 
in the bread-box. I shape them as evenly as possible, and 
not larger than the palm of my hand. Then I place them side 
by side on some large platters, and pour over them a thin bat- 
ter consisting of milk, one egg, a pinch of salt, and a little flour, 
 about a scant tablespoonful for a pint of milk, but no mort 
than the bread will take up. This batter I beat with an egg- 
beater, and take one-half of it in which to soak the slices of 
bread for about half an hour ; then I turn the slices with the 
cake-lifter, and pour the rest of the batter over them. After 
another half-hour's soaking they are ready to be browned in a 
large frying-pan by means of a little butter over a brisk fire. 
The pan and butter must be hot before putting in the bread. 
Put in as many at a time as the pan will hold ; turn them 
as soon as they are of a golden brown underneath, and 
brown them on the other side as well, adding a little more 
butter. When done, heap them on a hot dish, dust some 
sugar over them, and serve with a fruit sauce or some stewed 
fruit. 



LETl'ER XXI 175 

Another simple dessert is pancakes. I have already given 
you a recipe for them in my last, when speaking about eggs.^ 
They may be served with powdered sugar and Pancakes: how 
lemons quartered, the juice to be eaten squeezed ^o serve them. 
on the sugared pancakes ; or with stewed fruit, as well as a 
fruit sauce ; or you may spread some fruit jelly or jam on each 
cake separately, and roll it up by means of a silver fork. You 
then serve them lying side by side. 

Some of the most dehcate of desserts are made and served in 
cups. There are cups on purpose for them, but small coffee- 
cups will do instead. For a custard take as many Desserts served 
cupfuls of milk as you have cups to fill. Place '" ^'^'^^ 
the milk over a moderate fire, and when it begins to boil add 
for each cup a scanty tablespoonful of sugar and a few drops 
of almond essence. Take also one egg for each cup, beat 
light, and stir into the milk. Now fill your cups and place 
them into a bain-marie, i.e. in a shallow pan, which you fill 
with boiling water from the tea-kettle, up to three-quarters the 
height of the cups. Cover the pan with a second one, and 
leave it standing where the water keeps boiling moderately. 
When the surface of the mixture begins to thicken, which will 
be in about ten minutes, you quickly remove the pan from the 
fire and take the cups out of the water ; for, if the water is 
allowed to boil too rapidly or too long, the custards will be 
spoiled. Serve cold. 

For coffee creme in cups take three-quarters of a pint of 
milk, let it come to a boil, then pour into it two ounces of 
ground mocha. Cover up and put in a warm place, where it 
will draw  not boil. Leave it there for about ten minutes, 
then strain, and add the yolks of five eggs beaten light before- 
hand, and two ounces of sugar. Beat the whole vigorously, 
fill into cups, and finish in the bain-ma7'ie. For chocolate 
creme take two and a half ounces of chocolate, one pint of 
milk, four eggs, and two and a half ounces of sugar. Let 
the chocolate dissolve in the hot milk, and proceed as before. 

1 See p. i68. 



176 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

When you happen to have saved the whites of three eggs, 
try this dessert, which I will call Mount Blanc : Take one pint 
Recipe for o( milk and put it on to boil. Meanwhile beat 

Mount Blanc. your three whites to a stiff snow  stiff enough for 
a spoon to stand in it upright.^ When the milk boils, add one 
ounce of sugar, some vanilla essence, and one and a half 
ounces of cornstarch dissolved in a little milk. Stir over the 
fire until large bubbles make their appearance. Remove from 
the fire, and mix into it the snow of the whites, not by stirring, 
which would undo it, but by mixing it from side to side. Fill 
into a mould previously dipped into cold water, and set away 
to get cold. Turn it out on a dish, and serve with either a 
fruit or a wine sauce. 

Here is a snow cj-hiie, quickly made : Take one pint of 

cream, the whites of two eggs, two tablespoonfuls of sweet 

white wine (or one of arrack), sugar to taste, a 

Snow creme. ^ ^ / ^ o 7 

pinch of grated lemon or orange peel, and beat 
the whole until stiff. Fill into glass cups or stem glasses. 

Another delicacy which you serve in glasses, is raspberry 
o , , foam. Take three tablespoonfuls of raspberry 

Raspberry foam. _ ^ r j 

syrup or jelly, the whites of six eggs, and three 
tablespoonfuls of sugar. Beat with the egg-beater until quite 
stiff. Then fill into glasses and serve. This is sufficient for 
ten persons. 

In berry time you will find the following a very acceptable 
recipe : Take one pint of juice squeezed either from raspber- 
D . , ries or red currants : add four ounces of surar. 

Recipe for a ^ of 

very delicate and watcr sufficicnt to make altogether one quart 

dessert. . ,. . , , . , , , ... 

of liquid. Let it come to a boil, then stir into it 
one cupful of fine farina, soaked previously in cold water, the 
superfluous water being poured off. Stir well, to avoid lumps, 
and keep stirring until the farina is done (about five to ten 
minutes). Fill into a mould dipped in cold water, and when 
cool set on ice. Serve with cream. If wanted particularly 
nice, fill into a ring mould, and when turned out heap some 

1 See p. 183. 



LETTER XXI 177 

whipped cream up in the centre. This recipe hails from Den- 
mark, where it is called Rodgrod,  red groats. 

Some of the finest dessert dishes are made with the addition 
of whipped cream. In the cities it can be bought at the 
confectioners, but the best is always made at home. You 
need for it fresh cream, not over a day old. Put ,^, 

' / _ Whipped cream, 

it in a larsfe bowl or tureen, and set it on the ice and how to make 

 .it. 

for at least one hour. Then beat with an egg- 
whip, and as the foam forms remove it with a skimmer into a 
colander which has been placed over another bowl. Return the 
liquid cream which drops into the latter to the cream you whip, 
and continue in this way until all your cream has turned to 
foam. If the cream should not get as stiff as desirable, add to 
it a pinch of pulverized gum tragacanth bought at a reliable 
druggist's. It eases the whipping considerably, and does not 
detract from the taste of the cream. If you wish, you may 
now sweeten your whipped cream and flavor it. To do the 
latter there is vanilla, grated chocolate, fruit marmalade or 
jelly, fresh raspberries or strawberries, etc., which a j; . ^ 
you mix with your cream by stirring gently, whipped cream 
Such flavored cream is a nice dessert in itself, 
when heaped up pyramid-like on a dish and served with fruit 
or cake. One pint of cream will make whips enough for six 
persons. A very pretty dish is obtained, for instance, in this 
way : Heap berries up in a crystal bowl, dust sugar over them 
freely, and then cover them up with sweetened whipped cream 
(take five ounces of sugar for one pint of cream). Put on the 
ice for one or two hours, and before serving garnish with a rim 
of extra large berries. 

To make a Russian crane you also need whipped cream. j 
Take three tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar and two eggs. 
Put in a large bowl and stir for half an hour, Recipe for 
when it will be quite thick. Add one tablespoon- '^''''"" '''""'' 
ful of best brandy (or arrack), and one pint of whipped cream. 
Mix gently, and serve at once. This is enough for five or six 
persons. 

For a chocolate l?ava7vise (or crane) take one pint of milk, y 



178 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

boil with half a pound of chocolate and a quarter of a pound 
of sugar. Flavor with vanilla. AMien cold add one ounce of 
Chocolate gelatine, which previously has been dissolved in 

bavaroise. water. Whip until the mixture begins to stiffen, 

then add a pint or a little more of whipped cream, which stir 
into it lightly. Put on ice. 

As to gelatine, it is a pretty safe rule to take one cupful to 
one and a half of cold water for every ounce of gelatine. 
-, ^. , Mix the two, and put in a warm place. Stir from 

Proportions for ^ . 

the use of tluic to tiuic Until the gelatine is quite dissolved. 

For stiffening a pint of liquid you generally need 
a scant ounce of gelatine in summer, while during the cold 
season a little over half an ounce is sufficient. This rule 
applies especially to jellies. For a C7'hne less will do. 

To vary, I will now give you a recipe for Russian rice. 

Take a quarter of a pound of rice. You will remember how to 

boil it, with all the seeds left whole, and yet 

Russian rice. ' ' ^ 

tender.^ When you have thus cooked it in water 
(no salt), put it on a sieve to get dry and cold. Then transfer 
it to a crystal dish. Take a quarter of a pound of sugar, 
moisten it with a gill of water, and boil it until a thickish sirup 
is obtained (about fifteen to twenty minutes). When some- 
what cool add to it a wineglassful of Jamaica rum, or arrack, 
and pour over the rice in the glass dish. Garnish with pre- 
served or canned fruit,  peaches, apricots or cherries,  or 
with different kinds of fruit. 

A very pretty dessert dish is a macedoine of fruit. You 
will very likely make it only when you expect invited guests. 

It will be then worth the trouble. You can do it 
wS^ t^ mak^ a iH different ways. Take either fresh, or canned, 
Vxlt^'""^ ^ or preserved fruit ; and you may make it with a 

jelly or without. Anyway, take the prettiest fruit 
at your command, and of different colors. Stone the cherries, 
leave the berries whole, but cut the larger fruit into nice pieces, 
 either in halves, quarters, or halved quarters. Put all your 

1 See p. 85. 



LETTER XXI 179 

fruit into a deep dish, pour over it a bottle of a light white 
wine, and set aside. Now take half a pound of sugar, and 
cook with one glassful of water until it makes a thick sirup. 
If your fruit is fresh, drop it little by Httle into the boiling 
sirup, and let it simmer for a little while ; if canned or pre- 
served, drop it in after the sirup has been removed from the 
fire, and merely let it steep for a while. Then take out the 
fruit with a skimmer, put into a large bowl, pour over it the 
wine in which previously it has soaked, and finally add the 
sirup. Let stand for four hours, when put in a vessel filled 
with ice, to chill thoroughly, and when served add small pieces 
of ice to the macedoine. This is Mademoiselle Fran9oise's 
recipe. 

I will give you another one made with jelly. Take three- 
quarters of a pound of sugar, and cook it with half a pint of 
water for fifteen minutes. Add the grated peel of three lemons, 
and their juice ; a pint and a half of California Marsala, and 
two ounces of gelatine. Put through a flannel bag until clear. 
Have a mould ready packed in ice, pour in some of the jelly; 
when stiff, add a layer of fruit ; pour in some more jelly ; let it 
get stiff; add more fruit, and so on until all is used up. Finish 
with jelly, and turn out when ready to be served. If you 
take fresh fruit for this dish, do not cook it ; if canned or 
preserved fruit, see that it is well drained of its juice. Save 
the latter, and use it, when you have occasion, for fruit sauces, 
jellies, etc. 

If made with preserved fruit, you might put as a first layer 
(after the jelly) some macaroons, as a second some candied 
orange peel arranged in a star-like pattern, and as a third layer 
slices of quince or any other dark red fruit. 

It will take some time before you have tried all these 
recipes. If you are successful, you will be able hereafter to 
avail yourself of any other recipe which may strike your 
fancy. A little practice is all you need. I will add now 
merely a few more recipes for baked puddings of a light kind. 

This apple pudding is exceedingly delicate : Peel, core, 
and quarter some tart apples. Boil them with a little water 



180 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

until soft. Mash them with a spoon, and take as much of 
them as will make a quarter of a pound. Add the same 
A light apple Weight of butter and sugar while still hot. Then, 
pudding. after it gets cool, mix with it three eggs beaten to 

a foam, and the grated peel of one lemon. Butter a pudding- 
form, dust it over with powdered sugar, and fill into it your 
mixture. The form must be high enough to allow the rising of 
the pudding. Bake in a quick oven for about half an hour. 
Try by inserting a straw (or a wooden toothpick) into the 
centre. If nothing attaches to it when pulled out, the baking 
is done. Remember this for other occasions. Serve at once. 

For a white of egg pudding take four whites and beat them 
to a stiff snow. Now mix two tablespoonfuls of apricot (or 
White of egg somc Other) marmalade with an ounce and a half 
pudding. Qf sugar, and add it carefully to the snow. Fill 

the whole into a buttered china dish, and bake in a slow oven 
for about half an hour. Serve immediately in the dish baked in. 

For a simple custard pudding take one pint of milk, stir 
into it gradually one tablespoonful of flour, the yolks of six 
^ , _, ^^ e2f2:s beaten lidit, sugar to taste, a flavorinsj of 

Custard pudding. ^'=' O ? o > o 

vanilla or lemon, and a teaspoonful of brandy. 
Finally mix with it a teaspoonful of melted butter (which may 
be warm, but must not be hot), and pour into a buttered dish. 
Bake in a moderately hot oven. 

A lemon pudding also is a simple affair. Take for it a quar- 
ter of a pound of sugar, and mix with the yolks of five eggs, 

stirrine: continually. When quite foamy add 

Lenrion pudding. "^^ ^ ^ ' 

quickly the juice ol one lemon, and then the 
whites of the Cizors, beaten to a stiff snow. Put into a buttered 
form, which it must not fill any more than three-quarters, since 
the mixture will rise considerably. Bake about fifteen to 
twenty minutes, and serve at once. 

Finally, I give you this recipe for a rice pudding: Take a 
quarter of a pound of rice, and boil it in a pint of milk until 
thick. Meanwhile beat half a pound of butter to a cream,^ 

1 See p. 183. 



LETTER XXI ISl 

add one by one the yolks of eight eggs, a quarter of a pound 
of sugar, the grated peel of half a lemon, and last of all the rice, 
which must be cold. When thoroughly mixed, . 

*-" ^ ' Rice pudding. 

add the whites of the eggs beaten to a snow. 
Bake in a buttered form, and turn out on a cake- plate. Serve 
warm with a fruit sauce. This is a very nice pudding. It may 
also be made of farina instead of rice. 

I must not close this letter before giving you a few recipes 
for the sauces mentioned. For a wine sauce, take one whole 
eofGr and the yolks of two, a heaped teaspoonful . 

^o J ? 1 X ^ wine sauce. 

of flour, two ounces of sugar, and half a pint of 

white wine. Beat with an egg-whip over the fire until just 

before the point of boiling. Serve hot or cold, as you please. 

A very simple sauce is made by first sweetening some cream, 
then adding the juice of a lemon, which will thicken the cream. 

For fruit sauces, the easiest way is to take home-made fruit 
sirup, and thin it with cold water. Or, if the sauce is to be 
hot, thin the sirup first with water, and when it ^ ., 

' r 7 Fruit sauces. 

comes to a boil add a teaspoonful of cornstarch 

dissolved in water. Stir while boiling until the cornstarch is 

done, which will be in two or three minutes. 

This last recipe for a claret sauce is excellent : Take one 
tablespoonful of powdered sugar, as much of ^^^^^^ ^^^^^ 
raspberry or currant jelly, and one glassful of 
claret. Stir until it slightly thickens. But do not put it on the 
fire. 

From the almost endless number of nice recipes for Hght 
desserts, I have chosen for you what I consider easy for a be- 
ginner, and withal good and wholesome. May it give you as 
much pleasure to carry out these recipes as it gave me pleasure 
to write them down. 



LETTER XXII 

Wouldst thou both eat thy cake and have it ? 

 Shakespeare. 

ONE thing brings forth another. Therefore, when I made 
up my mind to teach you some simple desserts, I as 
much as bound myself to add a lesson about cakes, since 
some of the former do seem to call for some kind of cake to 
complete the course. It is also, in fact, a great convenience 
for a hospitably inclined housewife to have cake ready at all 
hours. If put in a porcelain crock well covered, or in a tin 
box, cake of all sorts will keep for days and weeks, and is 
always at hand to be offered to unexpected guests, or ready for 
any other emergency. To produce good cake is, however, an 
art by itself, and not so easy as people generally suppose. But 
if you set about to do it methodically, and are observant of 
certain strict rules, there is no reason why you should not in 
time excel in it as well as in the other culinary branches. 
Only do not devote to the baking of cakes any more time than 
is necessary to keep yourself reasonably well supplied. For 
cake, as your judgment will tell you after all my teachings, is 
not actual food ; it is merely one of those pleasant auxiliaries 
by which we bring variety into the routine of our indispensable 
fare. 

As to the rules, the flour to be used must be the finest and 
best. See that it is dry, and yet not so dry as to make it 
Rules for baking sccm like dust whcu taken up in your hand and 
cai<e. allowed to sift through your fingers. Flour, if 

kept in a damp place, or a warm one, will spoil easily, and thus 
be unfit to use. Get the other ingredients also of the purest 
and best. Your sugar likewise has to be dry and well pow- 
dered ; your butter must be the freshest, and if too much 
182 



LETTER XXII 183 

salted will have to be worked over in cold water, in order to 
sweeten it. Break each egg separately into a cup before using 
it, so as to test its freshness. Be careful in breaking eggs and 
separating the yolks and whites, for any particle of the former 
mixed with the latter will prevent these from getting stiff when 
whipped. To whip the whites to a snow, put them into a deep 
bowl or, better still, into an open-mouthed pitcher. By then 
using an egg-beater and plying it without stopping, a stiff snow 
will readily form. Test its stiffness by introducing a table- 
spoon : if it will stand up by itself, your snov/ is just right. 
Do not touch it again until mixed into the cake batter. It is 
better to have one person stir the batter, and another whip the 
whites, and have the snow done the minute it is wanted. But 
if this is impracticable, whip your snow before you stir your 
batter, and set it in a basin of cold water to keep. When a 
recipe tells you to beat butter to a cream, do as follows : 
Weigh your butter first, then put it in the dish in which your 
cake is to be stirred. Place it near the stove for about an 
hour beforehand to get soft, but do not let it melt. Use a flat 
wooden spoon with a long handle for stirring, and do it vigor- 
ously in one and the same direction, until the butter is white 
and foamy. When adding eggs, let them have about the same 
temperature as the butter, or the latter might curdle. To fur- 
ther avoid this, add one egg at a time, alternating with a spoon- 
ful of sugar, and mix thoroughly before adding the next. Beat 
all cake batter in one direction, and with uniform alacrity. 
Your success depends a good deal on this. The snow of the 
whites is not added until the last moment. Do not stir it in, 
but mix from the sides of the vessel toward the middle by gen- 
tle strokes. The batter when finished must be baked at once. 
Another important factor in baking is the fire. It ought to be 
looked after at least an hour beforehand, and be in such a 
condition as to need no handling during the time of baking. 
Most cakes need a moderately hot oven, and some even a 
cool one. A good old test is, to put a piece of thick paper 
into the oven, to shut the door, and open it again after five 
minutes. If the paper is light brown, the oven is moderately 



184 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

hot ; and if yellow, the oven is cool. Now, as to forms for bak- 
ing, it is advisable to have one or, better, two sheet-iron pans 
with low rims, just fitting into your oven, for small cakes either 
to be put directly upon them or for holding a number of small 
cake moulds ; besides, to have a round tin form with a 
straight rim an inch to an inch and a half high, and another 
one with a rim as high as your forefinger. Lastly, have one of 
copper (or tin) fluted and turban-shaped. Your forms must 
be kept immaculately clean, perfecdy dry, and, to receive the 
cake batter, must be well buttered inside and dusted over 
either with cracker-dust or powdered sugar, except when 
directed otherwise. For buttering the form, I first melt a 
little butter, then I use a soft painter's brush (kept for this sole 
purpose) to give the form a coating of the butter. Get ready 
your form (or forms) before beginning with the cake, so as to 
have no delay when the latter is to be baked. After the bak- 
ing is done, do not turn out your cake until it has stood a while 
to cool off, or it might not come out unharmed. Even when 
turned out, do not let it get cold all at once, for fear it might 
setde down. Keep all these rules in your mind, for I shall not 
reiterate them. 

The recipes I have selected for your benefit are mostly old 
and tried ones, handed down in the family for generations. 
They are the most wholesome, too, as far as cake goes. The 
first, a very simple one, is associated with mother's and grand- 
mother's cake-box, readily opened to the sesame of bright eyes 
begging and litde chubby hands outstretched. I will call the 
German drop recipc German drop cakes. Take half a pound 
"'<" of sugar, half a pound of flour, two eggs, and the 

yolks of another two. Beat sugar and eggs together for half an 
hour, then add the flour, and stir until thoroughly mixed. In- 
stead of all wheat flour, you may take half and half wheat flour 
and cornstarch, which will make the cakes somewhat more deli- 
cate. Have ready a sheet-iron pan, give it a very thin coating 
of butter, and from a teaspoon drop upon it little heaps of 
batter. Have sufficient space between them, for they will run 
and get, at least, double the original size. Bake in a slow 



LETTER XXII 185 

oven in about half an hour. They must not get brown, but 
look a pale yellow. Loosen them with the blade of a knife 
after they have somewhat cooled off, and let them get quite 
cold on a platter before removing them to the cake-box. They 
will keep for a month. 

Another cake which may be kept for a long time is Israel 
cake. Take for it half a pound of butter, half a pound of 
suarar, half an ounce of cornstarch, three-quarters , , , 

*-" ' ' " Israel cake, 

of a pound of wheat flour (both good weight), and 
three eggs. Beat the butter to a cream, add eggs and sugar, 
and the flour at the very last. Stir for half an hour. The batter 
ought to be rather stiff. Butter a shallow pan ; fill into it the 
batter, which smooth evenly with the blade of a knife, then 
dust over it some sugar, and, if you wish it, some almonds cut 
into fine shreds. Bake in a slow oven for about half an hour. 
The cake must be of a light yellow. Cut it into squares, or 
strips an inch and a half by three inches, while warm. 

A plain cake made very quickly is called Jenny Lind cake. 
The reason why it was called after the great singer is not evi- 
dent to me. That it should have been because , , ., , 

Jenny Lmd cake. 

she was plain of features, I am not willing to be- 
lieve ; let us rather suppose that her sweet and simple nature 
suggested it. Take for this cake, two cups of flour, one and a 
half of sugar, a half a cup of butter, one of cream, two eggs, 
one teaspoonful of baking powder. Mix the latter with the 
flour. Beat the butter to a cream, and add the rest in quick 
succession. Stir until hght, and bake in a deep form, and in a 
hot oven for about half an hour. 

This latter cake would be much more deserving the name 
of the following, cafled Lightning cake. Take a quarter of 
a pound of butter ; beat to a cream ; add one , . ^, . 

^ -^ ^ Lightning cake. 

after the other a quarter-pound of sugar, the yolks 
of three eggs, a quarter-pound of flour, a flavoring of lemon 
peel, and the stiff snow of the whites of three eggs. Put into 
a round form and bake a quarter of an hour. \Vhen cold, 
powder sugar over the cake, and ornament it with preserved 
fruit. Or cover it with icing, of which later. You also may 



186 LETTERS TO A YOUXG HOUSEKEEPER 

bake two such cakes, place one on top of the other, and spread 
jelly or marmalade between. A little later I will give you the 
recipe of another layer cake ; but first I wish to make you 
acquainted with a most excellent sponge cake and a sand 
cake, so called from its fine crumbly texture. 

For Sponge cake take half a pound of sugar, the yolks of ten 

eggs, and stir for half an hour. Add the grated peel of half a 

lemon (or any other flavoring;), and a quarter of 

Sponge cake. ^ ' ^'' ' 

a pound of cornstarch, and lastly the stiff snow 
of five eggs. Bake in a high form in a moderately hot oven, 
for from half to three-quarters of an hour. The top must feel 
firm and dry to the touch. 

For Sand cake, which will keep in good condition for many 
days, take half a pound of butter ; beat to a cream, when add 

the yolks of five eggs and half a pound of sugar. 

Stir for half an hour, and then add gradually half 
a pound of cornstarch, one sherry-glassful of Jamaica rum, the 
grated peel of half a lemon, and lastly the stiff snow of three 
eggs. Bake like the sponge cake. It is best made a couple 
of days before cutting it. 

This Chocolate cake also is very good : Take a quarter of 
a pound of butter, beat to a cream, add the yolks of six eggs, 
^, , , a half a pound of su<j;ar, and stir for half an hour. 

Chocolate cake. ' 07 

Then add a quarter of a pound of grated choco- 
late, two tablespoonfuls of cocoa powder, some vanilla flavoring, 
four scant ounces of cornstarch, and at last the stiff snow of 
the six whites of t.gg. Bake in a form like the preceding 
cakes, but have the oven hot. It will take about three-quarters 
of an hour before it is done. 

Now for the layer cake, which I deem an extra good one. 
Its name is Vienna cake. Take for it one pound of butter, 

beaten to a cream, the yolks of seven esrsrs, and 

Vienna cake. ' ' ^'^ ' 

seven whole eggs. Add one yolk and one whole 
^^g at a time, and after all are mixed in, add gradually one 
pound of sugar. Stir for half an hour, then add one pound of 
the finest possible wheat flour, and the grated peel of one 
lemon. This cake requires a hot oven. Baked in a large. 



LETTER XXII 187 

round, and shallow form, it will make four to five layers, each 
baked separately until of a light brown. You might, however, 
divide the above amount of batter into six or eight smaller 
layers (for which of course smaller forms are required  two 
being put in the oven at one time), and thus make two layer 
cakes with different filling and icing for each. After the layers 
are cold, trim them so as to fit nicely one on top of the other, 
and if too much browned in places, shave off what is objec- 
tionable. Now spread a thin layer of fruit jelly or marma- 
lade (raspberry is the nicest), or some other kind of filhng, 
between each layer of cake, and finish the top with icing. 
Spread it evenly over the entire outside of the cake, except, of 
course, its bottom. You are now no longer bound by strict 
rules, weights, and measures. Your fancy comes into play to 
select, decorate, and even invent. You may make a cake fill- 
ing of any of the whipped creams I have indicated to you in 
my last letter. Or you may use for it the cremes I gave you 
the recipes for, adding, perhaps, a little gelatine to prevent 
their running. But, mind you, the creams will not keep any 
longer than a day or two. After that they will get sour. 
You might also take some of the icing you mean to use and 
fill your cake with it. I will speak about icings presently, 
but wish to give you first the recipes for two particularly nice 
fillings. 

The first is a Nut filling : Take two ounces of sugar, and 
make a boiled sirup of it with three tablespoonfuls of water, 
to which add three ounces of walnuts (or hazel- jwo nice cake 
nuts), peeled and pounded fine in a mortar, with ^'"'"gs- / 

the addition of a tablespoonful of cream. Add half a tea- 
spoonful of vanilla essence, and one ounce of candied orange 
peel minced. Stir until thick. 

The second is an Orange filling, for which take the peel of 
one orange, cut off very thin and soak it in the juice squeezed 
from the orange for fifteen minutes. Remove the peel, and add 
the juice to two ounces of sugar; add the yolks of two eggs, 
beaten to a foam. Add also one teaspoonful of flour, and 
one gill of white wine. Stir the whole over the fire until it 



1S8 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

thickens. Then let get somewhat cool, and mix with it the 
stiff snow of one white of egg. 

A simple icing is made by taking two ounces of powdered 
sugar and one white of egg, stirring both together for fifteen 
Cake icings and miuutes. Add either lemon, orange, or any 
ornamenting. other kind of fruit juice, according to your 
fancy. When done, spread it over your cake in a thin 
sheet, and put in a place where it will dry. A Chocolate icing is 
easiest made thus : Take a quarter of a pound of chocolate, 
break up, and soften in a warm place ; mix with two ounces 
of sugar and, stirring well, gradually add the whites of two 
eggs. 

To ornament your cakes after they are iced, you take one 
or more kinds of preserved or candied fruit, arrange them in 
patterns, with leaves cut out of candied citron or orange rind. 
Add, if you will go to that extent, some beading and 
arabesquing of icing (of a different color if you prefer) by 
putting a teaspoonful at a time into a funnel-shaped paper bag, 
with an opening about as large as a pinhead. 

To make the most of my remaining space, I now give you 
in quick succession a number of recipes of small cakes and 
Small cakes or tidbits, which you may ornament likewise as 
^^^- your fancy leads you. First of all I will mention 

that you may use the recipes for sponge and sand cakes 
to make pretty little tarts, baked in small tin or copper 
moulds, which come with raised patterns. The only difference 
I would counsel is, to take all the whites for the snow, instead 
of part of them. It will make the tarts lighter. For that 
reason you must be particular not to fill the moulds more than 
three-quarters full. After turning out the tarts, ice them, and 
dust over them, before the icing hardens, some chopped pista- 
chio-nuts (or almonds). This is merely in the way of a sug- 
gestion. 

For Chocolate tarts take a quarter of a pound of sugar, an 
ounce and a half of grated chocolate, and the yolks of six 
eggs. Stir for a quarter of an hour ; add three ounces of 
cornstarch and the whites beaten to a snow. 



LETTER XXII 189 

Portuguese Drop Cake.  Take butter, eggs, sugar, and 
fioiir, of equal weight. Beat the butter to a cream, add the 
eggs, sugar, and flour. Stir for half an hour, and drop in little 
heaps size of a walnut on a sheet-iron pan, which previously 
you slightly dust over with flour. Then take a preserved 
cherry for each drop cake, place it in the centre, and press 
down far enough to fix it in its place. Bake in a moderately 
hot oven. 

Sugar Wafers.  Take sugar the weight of two eggs, and 
flour the weight of one egg. Stir the sugar with the addition 
of three eggs for a quarter of an hour, then add the flour and 
half a teaspoonful of minced orange peel, or candied orange 
flowers. Put in little heaps on a very thinly buttered sheet- 
iron pan, three inches apart. Dust them over with granulated 
sugar, and bake in a moderately hot oven. Remove them from 
the pan while hot, and bend them over a rounded stick in the 
shape of a scroll. Or shape them like a cornucopia and fill 
with whipped cream just before serving. 

To make Macaroons take half a pound of blanched and 
skinned almonds, of which five or six may be bitter. Pound 
them to a paste in a mortar with the addition 

. Macaroons. 

01 the whites of three eggs. Add to this paste 
ten ounces of sugar, and stir for a quarter of an hour. Put 
in little round or oblong heaps on a sheet of white paper dusted 
over with flour. Dust granulated sugar over them, and bake 
in a slow oven. 

Filets de Vent.  Take six ounces of sugar, the white of one 
egg, the grated peel of half a lemon (or some vanilla flavor- 
ing), and stir until like a thick icing. Bake in little heaps on 
paper, and in a slow oven. 

Kisses.  Take one tablespoonful of sugar to every white 
of one egg ; flavor with cinnamon, vanilla, lemon, or wdiatever 
you choose. Beat with a spoon until quite light. Drop in tiny 
heaps on a sheet of white paper, and bake in a very cool oven. 
They must not brown, but get hard on top. 

Meringues.  Proceed in the same way, with this difference : 
beat the whites to a stiff snow first, then add the sugar Uttle by 



190 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

4 

little. Put oval heaps the size of half an egg on paper. 
Have a board underneath the paper, and place both board and 
paper into a very slow oven to bake the meringues. After 
they get glazed on top, which will be in about twenty-five to 
thirty minutes, remove them from the paper, and if not hollow 
inside, take out from below what is soft with a teaspoon. Fill 
the space left with fruit jelly, or whipped cream flavored. 
Put two and two together, and serve. 

Little bits of cake or confectionery are called houchees (mouth- 

fuls). They make a nice show and are not difficult to get up. 

Especially, if you should happen to have some 

Bouchees. -^ rii ii--ir i 

remnants oi sand cake, or any other land of a rather 
solid texture. Cut them into slices three-quarters of an inch 
thick, spread with marmalade or some other filling, place two 
and two together, cut into pieces about an inch and a half 
square, or into lozenges, and cover over with icing. Dust 
minced pistachio-nuts, almonds, or candied orange peel on 
top, or garnish in some other way. 

For boucJiees of another kind take the yolks of three eggs, add 
seven teaspoonfuls of sugar, and three heaped tablespoonfuls of 
flour. Stir until foamy, then add the snow of the three whites. 
Rub flour over a baking-board and roll out to a thin sheet. 
Rub flour also over the rolling-pin you use. Then take a sherry 
glass, dip it into flour, and cut out round pieces, which you bake 
on buttered paper. Place two and two upon each other, with 
a filling between, and cover with a thick chocolate icing. Or 
fill with raspberry jelly, and cover with icing made with rasp- 
berry sirup thickened by mixing with sugar sirup. Dip the 
bouchees into it, and put in the oven for about two minutes to 
dry. 

I would count candied fruit also as boitchees. It is easily made, 
and, both by itself as well as for ornamenting, is a great delicacy 
How to candy ^o^ thosc who Hkc swccts. But you understand 
^'"'^- that aU this is a luxury, in which to indulge only 

occasionally. Take any kind of fresh fruit, divide those which 
are too large into halves, and boil in water until tender. Drain, 
and make a sirup  a pint of water to a pound of sugar  which 



LETTER XXII 191 

boil until by dipping a wooden skewer into cold water, then into 
the boiling sirup and back again into the cold water, you can 
whirl the sirup sticking to the skewer into a globule, which will 
crack in breaking off. In this sirup you drop your fruit, allow- 
ing it to boil up a few times. Then remove from the fire, and let 
the fruit remain in the sirup for twenty-four hours, when place 
the fruit side by side on a wide colander by means of a skim- 
mer. Dust powdered sugar over it, and set the colander in a 
lukewarm oven over night. When dry, the fruit is done. For 
nuts, oranges, and chestnuts, you do somewhat differently. The 
oranges you divide into sections, the walnuts you cut into halves, 
the chestnuts you boil and peel ; and one like the other you 
merely immerse into the sirup described, then take them out 
again, and put aside for the sugar to dry. 

To candy orange peel, take the whole thickness. Cut into 
even sections before peeling; boil in water until tender, then 
put into cold water, and let it remain in it for two or candied orange 
three hours. Drain, and for each half a pound of p^^'' 
peel take ten ounces of sugar. Add water to the latter, and 
boil for about five niinutes, then pour over the peel, and let 
stand over night. On the following day boil peel and sirup 
until the former gets transparent, and the latter thick. Remove 
the peel on to some paper, and let it get dry. You may also 
put it into glass jars, pour the sirup over it, and keep it tied up. 
In any case, save the sirup ; it will do you good service for one 
thing or another. 

Will this do for you? There are hundreds more of nice 
recipes for cakes and sweetmeats, but too much of a good thing 
is merely embarrassing. Therefore I close this subject. 



LETTER XXIII 

O, 'tis most sweet. 

 Shakespeare. 

IN the last two letters I made mention more than once of 
preserves,  especially jellies, marmalades, and sirup, neces- 
sary for carrying out certain recipes for cake and light desserts. 
I deem it good policy to have a store laid in of those pre- 
serves, each kind in its season, and home-made. It is done 
with comparatively little expense, and, moreover, they are far 
better than those bought at the dealers'. I will give you here 
a restricted number of recipes for putting up fruit ; as many 
as I think you will need for the present. They are recipes 
well-tried many a time over. First of all, however, I have to 
s for ttin Giijoii^ oi^ 7^^ the following precepts : For putting 
up stores of up any kind of stores, be sure that the strictest 

cleanliness prevails in regard to the food you 
use, as well as to everything coming in contact with it. The 
more rigidly this rule is carried out, the more certain you 
will be to exclude all germs disastrous to your complete suc- 
cess. See that your preserving-kettle be porcelain-lined, and 
never used for any other purpose. Your skimmer also ought 
to be of porcelain, and the spoon you use of shining silver. 
Whatever it is you put up must be of the freshest and best. 
Cleanse it carefully, and drain it well after washing in cold 
water. The sugar also must be the best and purest, and if 
vinegar is used, buy only prime cider vinegar which is neither 
too mild nor too strong. If a recipe calls for sirup in which 
to cook the fruit, you prepare it by putting a pint of water to 
ev^ry pound of sugar into your preserving-kettle. Put it on 
the fire and, stirring from time to time, let it come to a boil. 
Take off the scum that rises, and continue to do so until your 
su:^ar is clear, when it will be readv for further use. 
192 



LETTER XXIII 193 

Have your glassware for receiving your preser\^es ready at 
hand when they are done. It also will have to be scrupulously 
clean, and dry at the same time. I put my glass jars or jelly- 
glasses in a place where they will get thoroughly hot, and fit to 
receive the boiling fruit, when intended to be put up air-tight. 
You must make sure, however, that no draft of cool air 
strikes the glass, or it will crack in spite of former care. Wipe 
the edges of it clean with a towel dipped into hot water ; then 
secure the lids to keep out the air, and after the glass gets cool 
tighten the screws once more. 

The first of all fresh fruit are strawberries, but they are diffi- 
cult to preserve on account of their volatile aroma, which 
makes them so delicious when eaten fresh from the vines. 
They are not the fruit for you to waste time and money on. 
When cherries come, however, get some of the sour cherries put 
dark, sour kind, and put them up air-tight. They "p air-tight. 
are delicious as a compote in winter, and far more whole- 
some than fruit put up in the over-sweet, old-fashioned 
way. Stone your fruit, then weigh it, and for every pound of 
it take half a pound of sugar. Put both together into your 
kettle, and place over a moderate fire. Let boil for about 
twenty minutes, stirring from time to time, and taking off the 
scum which rises. If you have more juice than needed for 
filling your jars with fruit, add to every pint of juice which is 
left half a pound more of sugar ; boil it for a minute or two 
longer, and fill into bottles, which seal up. It makes an excel- 
lent pudding sauce, and will do for some desserts, when fruit 
sirup is mentioned. 

To put up blackhearts I can recommend the following : 
Take them whole, merely removing the stems, and for every 
three pounds of cherries take one pound of sugar Blackhearts put 
and one cupful of vinegar. When boiling, watch ''p air-tight. 
the cherries, and just as soon as they get tender, which will be 
in about ten or fifteen minutes, take them off the fire, skim, 
and fill them hot into air-tight jars. They ought to look plump 
and natural. They are delicious for use in winter. You can 
put up plums the same way, if they are fully ripe. If you wish 



194 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

them perfect, you peel them before cooking. By pouring boil- 
ing water over the plums, and letting them remain in it until 
you can bear your hand in the water, the skins will peel off 
without much trouble. 

After cherry time we have raspberries, blackberries, and cur- 
rants to gather in for future use. The following recipe is 
Raspberry and cqually good for raspbcrry and for blackberry 
blackberry jam. jam; Take thrcc-quarters of a pound of sugar 
for every pound of berries. Put over a slow fire, and allow to 
boil for twenty minutes from the time boiling commences. 
Fill hot into air-tight jars. The raspberry jam is improved by 
taking part currants, one-third of the latter and two-thirds of 
raspberries. 

To make raspberry sirup squeeze the berries through a nap- 
kin until all the juice is extracted. Boil the latter for fifteen 
How to make miuutcs, skimmiug continuall}^, and then add one 
raspberry sirup. pound of sugar for cvcry pint of juice. Let bo'il 
up once with the sugar, and take off the fire. Fill into bottles, 
cork up, and seal. This sirup retains all the flavor of the ber- 
ries, and is delicious as a beverage, mixed with water, and for 
cooking purposes. For jelly you proceed in the 
berr?es,bia?k^" samc way, cxccpt that you allow tlie juice to boil 
^Zlanis ^"*^ ^^^ ^^^^y ^^^^ minutes longer after the sugar has been 

added. Fill in jelly-glasses ; cover them loosely 
with sheets of v/hite paper, and let the jelly get firm. Then cut 
round pieces of white paper to fit into the apertures of the 
glasses. Moisten these pieces with brandy, and place directly 
over the jelly. Finally, paste white paper over the tops of the 
glasses, and your jelly is ready to store away. Blackberry jelly, 
which is very good and wholesome, is made in the same way. 
For currant jelly I can recommend this recipe : Squeeze all the 
juice out of some red currants, and for every pint of it take 
one pound of sugar. Choose the best granulated, and pound 
it in a mortar to a powder. Pass it through the finest sieve 
you can procure, so as to be quite sure that no coarse particles 
remain. Then put the sugar in a deep porcelain bowl, and 
into a heated oven to get dry and hot, but not so hot as 



LETTER XXIII 195 

to melt. When quite hot, take it out and, while stirring the 
sugar incessantly, pour your juice into it by degrees, a small 
quantity at a time. As soon as the juice is all absorbed and 
the sugar entirely dissolved, the jelly will be ready to fill into 
glasses, and to be put away. If done carefully this jelly sur- 
passes every other kind in color and flavor. It will keep as 
long as three years. I will mention here that it is a good plan 
to mark all your preserves with your name, what kind it is, and 
the date, especially the latter. 

When peaches make their appearance in plenty, I counsel 
you to buy several basketfuls at a time, and select the most 
perfect ones for putting up " fresh," while of the How to put up 
specky or inferior ones you make a thin marma- peaches. 
lade, or rather a compote, for which I have my own recipe. 
Free the peaches of their skins and stones. The perfect ones 
you cut into halves, and make a sirup for them. To every 
pound of fruit you take one-quarter of a pound of sugar, and 
to every pound of the latter a very scanty pint of water. 
After the sirup is clear, drop into the boiling liquid your halves 
of peaches, and allow them to boil up just once. Then remove 
the kettle from the fire, and as quickly as possible drop your 
fruit, piece by piece, into your hot jars, fill them up with the 
sirup, and screw the lids down on them. Peaches done in 
this way will have almost the full aroma of the fresh fruit, when 
opened in winter. The same is the case with finely flavored 
pears, which I peel, cut into halves, take out the cores, but 
let the stems remain on the corresponding halves. Then I 
proceed in the same manner as stated in regard to peaches. 
I have done even cantelope in this way with success. 

For the peach marmalade you proceed thus : After your 
fruit is peeled and stoned you cut it into smaU pieces, which 
may be as irregular as you please. Then weigh it, and for 
every pound of it take one-quarter of a pound of sugar, pro- 
vided the peaches are fully ripe. If not, take two ounces more 
of sugar for each pound of fruit. Put the latter into a tureen 
and mix it with your sugar. Put in a cool place until the next 
day. Open four peach stones out of every dozen stones you 



196 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

have taken from your fruit, and take out the kernels. Free 
them of their brown skins, which you can do easily after hav- 
ing scalded them with boiling water. Keep the kernels until 
you put your sugared peaches over the fire next morning. 
Then add them to the peaches, which will have plenty of juice 
of their own by this time. Boil them over a moderate fire for 
twenty minutes, stirring and skimming frequently. Fill into 
air-tight jars. This mild preserve has never failed to find 
favor v/hen placed on my table. 

I add a first-rate recipe for brandy peaches, of which you 
might do well to put up a half-gallon jarful. Accompanied 
A recipe for by ice-crcam they furnish you with a choice des- 

brandy peaches. ^^^^ course for a Httlc diuucr party. Take fruit 
which is fully ripe, and yet firm and speckless. Pour boiling 
water over it, and leave it covered over for a few minutes. 
Then take out one peach after another, and with a clean crash 
towel rub as much of the skin off as you can without seriously 
breaking it. Have ready some large, open-mouthed glass jars, 
fill them with your peaches, sprinkling granulated sugar over 
them sufficient to cover them slightly. Put a thick sprinkling 
of sugar on top, and then fill the jars up with the best white 
California brandy. Screw up air-tight, and set away. 

Tedious as it is to put up quinces, I consider them fully 
worth the trouble they cause, and would advise you to try the 
following way of making a fine preserve of sliced quinces, a 
jelly, and a stiff marmalade, all out of the same fruit at the same 
How to preserve time. Pccl your quiuccs, quarter and core them, 
quinces. bciug carcful to save the seeds. Take all the 

perfect parts and divide in even slices. Make a sirup, taking 
equal parts of sugar and fruit, and when ready drop into the 
boiling liquid the sliced quinces. Cook slowly, and skim well. 
When the quinces turn red and look clear, they are done. 
Remove them with a skimmer, and put into jars. Boil the 
sirup until thick, and almost like a jelly, when pour over the 
fruit, and screw up the jars. Some add a lemon sliced thin, 
and freed from all seeds, to the quinces as soon as they begin 
to turn red. This is a matter of taste. While the slices are 



LETTER XXIII 197 

cooking, take a second kettle or pan, put into it the parings, 
cores, and seeds, add water sufficient to cover them. When 
perfectly soft strain through a clean napkin. Meanwhile cut 
up all remaining imperfect parts of your quinces into small 
pieces, and when your kettle is empty put them in, add the 
liquor drained from cores and parings, and cook until quite 
soft. Drain again, mash the quince through a sieve, weigh it, 
and put once more into your kettle. Add sugar, three-quarters 
of a pound to a pound of the quince, and a cupful of the 
drained liquor for every pound of fruit. Boil until thick, stir- 
ring pretty much all the time to prevent scorching. Fill into 
cups and glasses. It will turn out firm, and, eaten with cream, 
is delicious. Now have your kettle cleaned, in order to make 
your jelly. Take the remaining liquor from parings, etc., and 
for every pint of it add one pound of sugar. Boil, skimming 
frequently, until it jellies. Test it by letting a drop from your 
spoon fall on a cold plate. If it turns into jelly remove your 
kettle from the fire at once. Quinces jelly easily ; be careful, 
therefore, to watch the right moment, lest your jelly should 
turn to sirup. 

I believe this is all you will need of sweet preserves, with- 
out running the risk of being extravagant. There are but a 
few recipes for pickles which I would like you to know. The 
material for them is cheap, and you will not find the like of 
these pickles in any market. Aside from being refreshing 
when eaten with meat, they will serve you for making and 
trimming salads and various dishes. They are of the wholesome 
kind, too,  not overcharged with hot spice. The recipe for 
pickled beets I gave you before, when speaking about salads.^ 
I now have for you 

The Sea-captain'vS Pickled Cucumbers.  You will find them 
the best you ever ate. For fifty cucumbers take half a 
pint of salt. Put into a vessel large enough to hold them ; 
add the salt, and pour boiling water over them sufficient to 
cover them up. Let stand over night, then wipe them dry, 

1 See p. 154. 



19S LETTERS TO A YOl'XG HOUSEKEEPER 

and arrange in large stone jars or crocks. Boil %'inegar suf- 
ficient to cover your cucumbers. Just before it comes to 
a boil throw in your spice, viz. for ever)' two quarts of vinegar 
half an ounce of mace, one ounce of black pepj>er seeds, one 
ounce of mustard seeds, and a quarter of a horseradish root 
cut into slices. Pour vinegar and spices over your cucumbers 
boiling hot, and when cold tie up and keep in a cool place. 
The follov^-ing is a recipe for 

Tarrag^on Gherkins.  Take cucumbers not larger than 
your liiile finger, wash them, and rub them all over with a fine 
brush, then put them in brine strong enough to bear an egg, 
for twent}--four hours, when drain, and dry them with a clean 
towel. Arrange them in either glass or small stone jars layer- 
wise, and put between each layer about half a dozen black pepper 
seeds and a sprig of tarragon. You may also add a bit of summer 
savory, and some shallots, or tiny onions whole, but this is not 
necessar}-. Now boil vinegar and f>our it over the cucumbers 
boihng hoL Lay a few shanngs of horseradish on top of each 
jar ; it will help to keep the pickles. Tie paper over them 
when cold, and in a week tr>' a pickle. If lacking in salt, add 
some to the vinegar. They will keep all winter if kept in a 
cool place. 

A good old-fashioned relish, which looks appetizing in a glass 
dish, and will also sene as part of a mixed winter salad, is 

Pickled Cabbage.  Take a firm head of cabbage. Cut it into 
the ijiinnest shreds, as for salad ; then chop fine. Put into a 
large bowl, and mix a heaped tablespoonful of salt with it Let 
stand over night ; and next morning drain well. Mince one 
small onion ; chop two red bull-nose peppers ( of which first 
remove the seeds); add one tablespoonfiil of white and one 
of black mustard seed, a sprinkle of celery seed, a few 
whole cloves, and a dozen or more black pepper seeds. Mix 
all this with the chopped cabbage ; pack into a stone jar ; cover 
the whole \\-ith a cabbage leaf, and fill up with boiling hot 
\Tnegar. 

I add the recipe for a ven.' nice sweet pickle, to eat with 
cooked ham or anv other kind of salt or cured meat 



LE7TER XXIII 190 

Spiced Pumpkin.  Peel the pumpkin, remove the seeds, and 
cut the marrow into pieces about half an inch wide, two inches 
long, and as thick as wide. Cover with vinegar in a porcelain 
vessel. Let stand over night in a cool place. The following 
day drain off the vinegar, and throw it away. Then take half a 
pound of sugar and four tablespoonfuls of vinegar for every 
pound of pumpkin, and place on the stove to boil until the 
latter begins to look clear and glassy. Add the following spice 
before it is quite done : three cloves,-a small stick of cinnamon, 
and the peel of half a lemon for every pound of pumpkin. 
Put into glass jars, and if the sirup is not thick enough when 
the pumpkin is done, cook it a while longer, before pouring it 
over the latter. The rin Is of watermelon may be done in the 
same way, after peeling off the hard green outside. 

Of the various catsups which can be made at home, I coun- 
sel you to make but the following, since it is easiest, and better 
than any yon buy. 

Tomato Catsup.  After washing ripe tomatoes, scald and 
peel them ; then measure, and for half a peck of them take 
one scant cupful of salt, two roots of horseradish grated, one 
ounce each of black and white mustard seed ; four red peppers, 
three onions, one ounce of nasturtiums, all chopped fine; half 
an ounce of celery seed, one teaspoonful each of ground black 
pepper and cloves ; and one tablespoonful of ground cinna- 
mon. Press off the juice of the tomatoes, and add to the latter 
all the other ingredients. After mixing thoroughly, pour over 
the whole one quart of vinegar ; fill into bottles, and cork and 
seal well. You will notice that no cooking is needed to make 
this catsup. You may leave out the nasturtiums, if more con- 
venient, and also the celery seed, since some people object to 
the latter. 

There is one more item you might add to your stores, 
and that is tarragon vinegar, since you can make it with little 
trouble so much cheaper than you buy it. 

Tarragon Vinegar.  Take a quart bottle, fill it with the best 
cider vinegar, and add about five ounces of tarragon leaves, 
after having stripped them off their stems, and dried in a warm 



200 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

but shady spot. If you choose, you may also add a teaspoon- 
ful of salt, a few shallots, and a little pimpernel. In France 
they add instead, some lemon peel and a few cloves. But this 
as good as neutralizes the flavor of tarragon. Your vinegar 
once prepared, you cork your bottle, and put it for a fortnight 
in a place where it will be exposed to the sun. After that time 
filter your vinegar through a clean piece of flannel or linen, and 
put it away, tightly corked, for use. 

It seems to me that now I might safely leave you to your- 
self. You have succeeded already, with the help I lent you in 
these letters, in giving a dinner party, which has delighted every 
one permitted to be your guest ; your husband, I am told, looks 
well and cheerful, thanks to his wife's art, and his purse, as you 
write to me, is not the loser for the good fare on your table. 
Well, my friend, is there anything still to add to my teachings ? 
I will await your answer. 



LETTER XXIV 

Unsightly dishes ahvays spoil 

The most delicious morsel, 

Serve it, though modestly, with grace : 

Your guests will sup with pleasure. 

YOUR wish is granted : I will give you all the assistance I 
can, to get up an evening entertainment which does not 
overstep your means, and yet will please the most fastidious of 
your friends. I will suggest to you various dishes and relishes 
the cost of which is moderate, while it remains for you to act 
on these suggestions, and with your taste and skill to make the 
most of them, not forgetting to serve your menu in the most 
tempting manner possible. No pains must be spared, of course, 
but head and hands be devoted to the task. 

I have always found that pickled oysters were welcome at 
evening parties. Panned or scalloped oysters also are very 
nice ; but, they require the presence of a good .,,_, 

, .  Pickled oysters. 

cook in the kitchen, while pickled oysters can be 
made a day or so before the entertainment. I have here for 
you a very good recipe : To pickle a hundred oysters, drain 
off the liquor ; put it on the fire to boil ; remove the scum 
rising, and when clear add the necessary salt (which you must 
prove by tasting), a teacupful of vinegar, a tablespoonful of 
black pepper seeds, and two or three blades of mace. Let 
boil up, then add the oysters after having picked them over 
carefully to remove fragments of shell. Let simmer for five 
minutes, and put either in glass jars or a large tureen covered 
up. Serve in a large glass bowl. 

I merely need to remind you here of the mixed salads  
chicken, Italian, lobster, etc.  which you have learned to 
make by this time. The clief-croeuvi'i which, I am sure, you 

20 1 



202 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

will produce, is a fit centre-piece for your table, and will sen'e 
you better than an expensive mass of flowers. Now you have 
oysters and a salad ; and, to set off these two chief dishes, I 
counsel to have several plates with sandwiches of different 
kinds, both inviting to the eye and appetizing to the palate. 
It is about as much of an art to make the sandwiches I mean 
as it is to compose a salad. But, after once mastering the art, 
you will never be at a loss to give your supper or lunch table 
an enticing aspect. 

To prepare yourself for these sandwiches you have to go to 
c . . . work in several ways. First of all you have the 

Sandwiches, and _ _ ' ^ 

how to make choicc of scvcral kiuds of mixed butter for spread- 
ing them, which can be made days beforehand, 
since that sort of preparation will keep. Here are three 
recipes. 

Mustard Butter.  Take two tablespoonfuls of mustard (I 
would choose the French) for every piece of butter the size of 
an tgg. See that the butter is soft  not hard  and work 
the two ingredients together, by means of a stone mortar and 
pestle, until perfectly blended. The two following you work 
in the same way. 

Anchovy Butter.  Take one teaspoonful of anchovy paste 
to butter the size of an egg. If you should find that the 
anchovy flavor were not predominant enough, add a little 
more paste. 

Sardine and Herb Butter combined is the best looking, as 
well as the best flavored of the three. The ingredients are 
salted sardines three ounces, butter a quarter of a pound, 
minced parsley a scant tablespoonful, and minced tarragon a 
teaspoonful. Wash the sardines well, but do not soak them ; 
split them and remove the bones ; then cut them into fine 
strips, and finally chop them as fine as possible. Mix and rub 
together all the ingredients until thoroughly blended. 

The two latter kinds of butter, when spread on bread, are 
palatable enough without anything else. But, used as a founda- 
tion or envelope for meat, fish, salad, etc., all three kinds will 
lend a delightfully //^//^/z/ flavor to either substance. 



LETTER XXIV 205 

chopped pickles. Arrange these sandwiches symmetrically, 
one above the other, either forming a high square, or an 
octagon, or pyramid. Garnish with greens, and a flower here 
and there. 

If you think your guests would like to treat themselves to 
an indigestion by following the fashion and munching some 
salted almonds, which certainly are ver)"" palatable, Recipe for 
I %\all be your accomphce, and give you here the ^''^^ aimonds. 
recipe : Take the best and largest almonds in market. 
Scald them with boiling water ; let stand until cool, when the 
brown skins will pull off readily. Wash them in cold water, 
put on a clean towel, and rub them dry. For a pint of them, 
take two teaspoonfuls of olive oil (or of melted butter) ; mix 
and put them on a shallow sheet-iron pan ; distribute evenly, 
and dust them over with a tablespoonfiil of salt. Place them 
in a slow oven ; and, after about five to ten minutes, stir them 
up, add another tablespoonful of salt, and put back in the 
oven until they have turned slightly brown. Stir again, and 
remove on a sheet of paper, to get cool. 

You now will have to deliberate whether it might be best for 
you to order ice-cream for \ht finale of your entertainment, or 
to get up yourself a sweet and yet cooling dish. If not in a 
position to get a really good ice-cream, I would rather do the 
latter. For this purpose I recommend to you a macedoine of 
fruit, for which I gave you more than one recipe.^ To accom- 
pany it, have some nice cake, or bouchees of cake, and be 
sure to choose some in which you have succeeded before. Or 
have simply some sweet wafers, which you buy in small tin 
boxes. Now, if you add to all this a cooling beverage, you 
may consider your menu complete for the evening. I know 
of several rather inexpensive beverages, the recipes of which 
might be of use to you now and on future occasions. They 
are the following :  

Tea Punch.  Take five heaped teaspoonfuls of black tea. 
Have your teapot hot before you put it in. Pour over it 

1 See p. 178. 



206 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

enough boiling water to cover. Allow to draw for three min- 
utes, then fill up with boiling water. Let draw for two min- 
utes, and pour through a tea sieve into a pitcher which will 
hold two quarts. Fill the teapot up with boiling water again 
and again, allowing it each time to draw for two or three min- 
utes, until your pitcher is full. Meanwhile, heat a bottle of 
California table claret (which need not cost any more than 
twenty cents a bottle), until just before boiling; put half a 
pound of sugar into the punch-bowl, add the peel and juice 
of one lemon, and pour over it the hot claret and the tea. 
Finally, add half a pint of arrack. This economical punch is 
equally good cold or hot. If you wish it cold, set it in ice for 
several hours before serving. 

Cardinal Punch.  Take three bottles of light Rhine or 
Moselle wine, and pour it over a small soup- plateful of fresh 
fruit which has been sugared for about an hour beforehand. 
The best fruit to take is either oranges, peaches, pineapple, or 
strawberries  the three former to be divided into even slices. 
Add sugar to taste. Do not sweeten too much  about one 
pound of sugar altogether. Let stand, covered up, for two 
hours, then add half a bottle of cheap claret. Put in ice to 
chill thoroughly, and when being served add  the recipe says 
a bottle of champagne, which I convert into  a bottle of 
Apollinaris kept on ice. The latter has the same sparkling 
effect, and the punch does not lose by it in quality. 

Snow Punch.  Take two pounds of sugar, and boil with 
one quart of water for twenty minutes ; then pour over the 
peels of three oranges shaved off very thin ; cover up, and 
let stand for one hour. Add the juice of four lemons, and 
pour through a hair sieve. Put into a covered vessel and pack 
in ice and salt for several hours. Before serving, add the 
whites of six eggs, and whip until quite foamy, when finally 
add, still whipping, six tiny glassfuls of Jamaica rum or mara- 
schino cordial. Serve from a bowl, or in glasses filled in the 
pantry. 

Ambrosia.  Take one quart of milk, add vanilla extract suf- 
ficient to give it a pleasant flavor, half a wineglassful of cherry 



LETTER XXIV 207 

brandy (Kirsch), half a small pineapple cut into very small 
pieces, and sugar to taste. Let stand covered up and on ice 
for three hours. This drink is served in small glasses at court 
parties in Berlin. 

A very refreshing drink also, when kept on ice, is Almond 
Milk. To make it, take one pound of sweet and one dozen 
bitter almonds. Scald, skin, and drop them into ,, , ,, 

' ' > Almond milk. 

cold water. Drain, and pound them, with the 
addition of some water, in a mortar until in very small frag- 
ments. Put them into a bowl and mix with cold water to the 
consistency of thin mush. Let stand for about fifteen minutes, 
then squeeze the liquid through a very clean napkin (there 
must be no starch or indigo in it). Put more water on the 
almonds ; let stand, and squeeze again. Add the liquid you 
obtain to the former. The almonds are now of no further 
use. Sweeten the almond milk to taste, and flavor with 
orange-flower essence, rose water, or vanilla. By adding a 
little fresh milk, the color is improved. 

But if you will not go to the extent of all this trouble and 
expense, a beverage made simply of raspberry juice or sirup 
mixed with water, and chilled on ice, is also an agreeable and 
refreshing drink. 

Now, before ending my advisory correspondence on the art 
of cooking,  which has taken a larger scope than I at first 
intenaed,  I will note down, for your guidance, a few menus 
for small lunch and dinner parties, keeping in view the limited 
means you have to deal with, in league with your art. 



MENUS FOR LUNCHEONS 

No. I 

Amber-colored broth, in cups, with cheese crusts. 

Lobster cutlets. 

Salpicon royal, on shells. 

Chicken croquettes, with celery salad, mayonnaise dressing. 

Coffee crime, in cups, with small cakes. 



?08 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 



No. 2 

Velvety soup, in cups. 

Minced veal kidneys on sautetd. bread. 

Risotto. 

Backhaendl (fried chicken), with fried parsley. 

Salad of lettuce, string-beans, and beets, 

French dressing. 

Snow creme, with bonchees of cake. 



No. 3 

Raw-meat soup, in cups. 

Oyster patties. 

Sweetbreads stewed in sauce allemande. 

Chicken in jelly, with green salad, French dressing. 

Raspberry water ice, with sweet wafers. 



No. 4 

Chicken puree soup, in cups. 

Eggs on shells. 

Beefsteak with mushrooms in brown sauce. 

Meringues filled with whipped cream. 



MENUS FOR DINNERS 

No. I 

Flour soup No. i., with asparagus tips. 

Boiled salmon, with sauce genoise, small potatoes, 

pickled gherkins (or cucumber salad). 

Ragoiit of sweetbreads in a ring of crouto7is. 

Cauliflower surrounded by green peas, boiled rice, 

and broiled lamb chops. 

Roast chickens stuffed with oysters, lettuce salad, 

French dressing. 

Russian crhne, with macaroons. 

Neufchdtel cheese, crackers. 

Fruit. 

Coffee. 



LETTER XXIV 209 



No. 2 



Green pea soup, with dice of custard. 

Ringed pike, small potatoes with melted butter and parsley, 

mustard sauce. 

^Macaroni a la iMiianaise. 

Roast beef, small roasted potatoes, 

puree of spinach. 

Game birds, with green salad, French dressing. 

Raspberry foam, with sugar wafers. 

Edam cheese, crackers. 

Fruit. 

Coffee. 



No. 3 

Julienne soup, with marrow balls. 

Panned oysters on shells. 

Chicken fricassee. 

Saddle of mutton, mashed potatoes with green herbs, 

chestnut piwee, currant jelly. 

Cauliflower with boiled lobster, sauce ravigote. 

Salad of lettuce and water-cress, 

French dressing. 

Macedoine of fruit, with small sponge cakes. 

Frontage de Brie, crackers. 

Fruit. 

Coffee. 



No. 4 

Soup with moulded rice. 

Striped bass, stuffed and baked, potatoes, 

sauce hollandaise. 

Mixed ragoiit in pastry shell. 

Filet of beef a la jardiniere. 

Scalloped oysters, green salad, French dressing. 

Ice-cream, boiichees. 

Corconzola^ crackers. 

Fruit. 

Coffee. 



210 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

I leave it to your judgment to change or modify these menus 
in relation to the guests you are going to entertain. You will 
not have less than three and no more than nine at table  a 
number between that of the Graces and the Muses (according 
to the old saying), and they will be either intimate friends, or 
friends farther removed whom you wish to compliment. Your 
bill of fare will have to be regulated to suit these different cir- 
cumstances. 

And now I have, indeed, come to the end. 

For my farewell I present you with a motto full of wisdom 
to put over your kitchen mantel :  

" Es kommt alles auf die Bereitung an, 
Sagte Hans, unci spickte eine Kroete." 

(It all depends on how it's done, 
Quoth Jack, a-larding of a toad.) 



INDEX 



Acid dissolves gelatine, 79. 
Albuminoids, in general, 9 ;  in daily 
rations, 9;  in Ruraford Soup, 21; 

 in various soups, 22 ;  in various 
meats, 43 ;  in rice, 84 ;  in vege- 
tables, 106;  in different fish, 128; 

 in eggs, 164;  in cheese, 170; 

 in light desserts, 174. 
Almonds, salted, 205 ;  milk, 207. 
Ambrosia, 207. 

Anorganic substances, 9. 

Arme Ritter, 174. 

Asparagus, soup, 31 ;  shavings, dried, 
34; how to cook  , 113; difference 
in  , 113 ;  en petits pais, 113 ;  
combines well with, 113. 

Aspic, uses of, 79 ; recipe for  , 79 ; 

 in a plat de gout, 79. 

B 

Backhaendl. See Chicken. 

Baked rice, 87 ;  potatoes, 100 ;  
lobster, 145. 

Baking. See Cake, 

Balis, bread, 27; sponge  , 28; mar- 
row  , 28; forcemeat  , 28; cod- 
lish  , 140 ; fish  for lobster fricas- 
see, 145. 

Barley, nutritive value, 11 ;  soup No. 
I, 24;  soup No. 2, 25. 

Baronius, Cardinal, 2. 

Batter for frying, 78. 

Bavarian recipe for ham dumplings, 28 ; 

for potato noodles, 102 ; 

for potato balloons, 103. 

Bavaroise. See Creme. 



Beans, dried, nutritive value, 11 ; string 
 , nutritive value, 11 ; black or Mexi- 
can  soup, 33 ; dried  soup, 34; 
to cook string  , 109 ; to cook Lima 
 , 109. 

Bechamel, 72. 

Beef, roast, 44 ;  braised, 46 ; value 
of different cuts of  ,47; filet of  
a la jardiniere, 47; how to use rem- 
nants of  , 48 ;  en matelote, 48 ; 
loss in weight, 49; stufato a I'lta- 
lieiute, with macaroni, 92. 

Beefsteak, how to broil, 44 ; to use rem- 
nants of  , 48. 

Beef-tea, nutritive value, 11. 

Beets, as a vegetable, 121 ; how to 
pickle  , 154. 

Beverages, fermented, nutritive value, 
II. 

Blackberry jam, 194;  jelly, 194. 

Bloaters. See Herring. 

Bluefish en matelote, i^j. 

Boil, how to, meat, 14;  mutton, 56; 
 ham, 62;  tongue, 63;  rice, 
85;  macaroni, 89;  cauliflower, 
112;  fish, 130;  lobster, 143; 
loss of weight in boiling, 49. 

Bo in be a la Sardanapale, 116. 

Bones, left over, 7 ;  waste material, 
49. 

Bouchees, 190. 

Bouille-abaisse, 136. 

Braise, how to, meat, 45 ;  beef, 46. 

Bread-box, the, 7 ; stale  added to 
soups, 19 ;  as accessories to soups, 
27 ;  balls, for soup, 27 ; wheat  , 
nutritive value, 11 ; 174;  for sand- 
wiches, 203. 

Breast of mutton. See Mutton. 



211 



212 



INDEX 



Brillat-Savarin, 2; on soup, 20; on 
serving pheasant, 22 ; on the truffle, 
97; about salad, 147. 

Broil, how to, beefsteak, 44 ;  oysters, 
142. 

Broth without fuel, 15 ; amber-colored 
 , 18; imitation  No. i, 34; imi- 
tation  No. 2, 34; old recipes for 
 , 39 ; how to clear  for aspic, 80 ; 
potatoes in  , 104. 

Brussels sprouts, how to cook, 114. 

Butter, lobster, 146 ; nutritive value, 
174 ;  for cake, 182 ; to beat  to 
a cream, 183; mustard  , 202; an- 
chovy  , 202 ; sardine and herb  , 
202. 



Cabbage, nutritive value, 11; to boil 
 , 114; an economical dish, 114; 
 au gratiii, 114 ; Savoy  , with rice, 
114; stuffed  , 115; red  , 116; 
how to avoid the smell of  , 116; 
pickled  , 198. 

Cake, to keep, 182; rules for baking  , 
181; 182; German drop  , 1S4; Is- 
rael  , 185 ; Jenny Lind  , 185 ; 
lightning  , 185; sponge  , 186; 
sand  ,186; chocolate  ,186; Vi- 
enna  , 186 ; fillings for  , 187 ; 
icing and ornamenting  , 188 ; small 
 , i83, see also tarts ; Portuguese 
drop  , 189; sugar wafers, 189; 
macaroons, iZg\ Jilets de vent, 189; 
kisses, 189 ; mer'utgues, 190 ; bou- 
chees, 190. 

Calf s brain soup, 38 ;  head, 52 ;  
head, baked, 53 ;  head en tortue, 
54 ;  tongue, 54 ;  head-cheese, 
82. 

Candied fruit, 190;  orange peel, 191. 

Carbohydrates, in general, 9;  in 
daily rations, 9 ;  in Rumford Soup, 
21 ;  in various soups, 22 ;  in va- 
rious meals, 43 ;  in rice, 84 ;  in 
vegetables, 106 ;  in eggs, 164 ;  
in cheese, 170;  in light desserts, 
174. 



Cardinal punch, 206. 

Carrots, raw, left over, 8 ;  , nutritive 
value, II ;  soup, 31 ; how to cook 
 , 118. 

Cauliflower, nutritive value, 11;  
added to soup, 19 ; how to boil  , 
112; sauce for  , 112;  au gratin, 
112;  with lobster, 112. 

Celery, left over, 8 ; how to dry  
leaves for winter use, 42 ;  root as 
a vegetable, 120. 

Cellulose, in vegetables, 106 ;  in light 
desserts, 174, 

Cheese, nutritive value, 11;  crusts, 
with soup, 27 ; composition of  , 
170 ; a fo)idue, 170 ; toasted  , 171 ; 
ramequ'uis, 171. 

Cherries, sour, put up air-tight, 193; 
blackhearts, air-tight, 193. 

Chestnut stuffing, 67 ; about  , 125 ;  
as a garnish, 125 ; puree of chestnuts, 
126. 

Chevrier, how he ate spinach, iii. 

Chicken, puree soup, 37 ;  loses in 
weight, 49 ; how to buy  , 63 ; how 
to cook young  , 64; stewed  
with rice, 64 ; fricassee of  , 65 ; 
young  fried in lard {Backhaendl), 
65 ; remnant of  as ragout, 69 ;  
in jelly, 81 ;  as pilaff, 86 ;  salad, 
162. 

Chocolate, nutritive values, 11 ;  
creine, 175 ; 178 ;  cake, 186 ;  
tarts, 188. 

Chops, mutton, see Mutton; pork  , 
see Pork. 

Clams, nutritive value, 11; 142;  
chowder, 143. 

Claret sauce, 181. 

Cod, nutritive value, 11, 130;  , boiled 
and stewed, 132 ; various ways of pre- 
paring salt  , 139;  fish balls, 140. 

Coffee, nutritive value, 11 ;  crane, 

175- 

Convalescents. See Sickness. 

Cooking, a severe task, i ;  an art, 2 ; 
 not confined to women, 2; Lie- 
big's influence on  , 6; principles 



INDEX 



213 



of  meat demonstrated, 44; ra- 
godts a valuable chapter of  , 73. 

Cooking-school, during reign of Louis 
XIV., 6. 

Corn, meal, nutritive value, 11 ;  
meal, 11;  soup, 32; green  , 
121 ;  fritters, 121 ; canned  , 122. 

Cornstarch, nutritive value, 11 ; 174. 

Court-Bouillon to boil fish in, 130. 

Cream, to make whipped, 177 ; whipped 
 and fruit, 177. 

Creme, coffee, in cups, 175 ; chocolate 
 , 175 ; snow  , 176 ; Russian  , 
177; chocolate  , ex bavaroise, 178. 

Croquettes, how to make, 77; potato 
 , 102, 

Croutons, in soups, 27 ;  for ragouts, 

73- 

Cucumbers as a vegetable, 119 1  
salad, 156; sea-captain's pickled cu- 
cumbers, 197 ; tarragon gherkins, 
193. 

Currant jelly, 194. 

Custard for soup, 25 ;  in cups for 
dessert, 175 ;  pudding, 180. 

Cutlets, veal, 51. 

D 

Dairy, favor the, 12. 

Danish recipe for rodgrod, 176. 

Desserts, food value of light, 174; the 
most economical of  , 174 ;  in 
cups, custard, 175 ; coffee crime, 
175 ; chocolate creme, 175 ; Mount 
Blanc, 176 ; raspberry foam, 176 ; 
rodgrod, 176 ; whipped cream with 
fruit, 177 ; Russian rice, 178 ; some 
ways to make a macedoine of fruit, 
179. See also Cremes, Puddings. 

Dressing, plain, " French," for salad, 
150; Sydney Smith's  for salad, 
152; two more  ,152; three recipes ' 
for mayonnaise  , 153 ; slight vari- 
ation of  , 154. 

Drumsticks, devilled, 66. 

Duck, loses in weight, 49;  a la Por- 
tugaise, 49 ; how to buy  , 63. 



Dumas' recipe for beef en matelote, 

48 ; for a breakfast dish of cold 

tongue, 63 ; for sauce tartare, 

74; two recipes for macaroni, 

92; for potatoes a la inaltre 

d' hotel, 103 ;   for 7nacedoine of 
vegetables, 126 ;  salad, 162. 

Dumont, Abbe, 2. 

Dumplings, ham, 28. 



Eggs, nutritive value, 11; 164; to boil 
 , 164 ; test your eggs before using, 
165 ; poached  , 165 ; fried  , 165 ; 
panned  , 165;  on shells, 166; 
an omelet, 166 ; various omelets, 166 ; 
omelet with bacon, 167 ; various ac- 
cessories to omelets, 167 ; stirred  , 
167; Roman fritata, 168; pancakes, 
169; pancakes filled with meat, 169; 
farcied  , 170;  and cheese, 170; 
171 ; expensive dishes, 171 ; pancakes 
for dessert, 175 ; white of egg pud- 
ding, 180;  for cake, 183. 

Egg-plant, saziie&d., 122;  au gratin, 
122. 

Emperor William I. of Germany liked 
a dish of stewed turkey, 66. 

English recipe for rice-flour soup, 25 ; 
 soups too much spiced, 42. 



Farina, nutritive value, 11 ; 174 ;  soup, 

23- 

Fat, how to use, 7 ;  taken off soup- 
liquor, 16. 

Fats, in general, 9 ;  in daily rations, 
9 ;  in Rumford Soup, 21 ;  in vari- 
ous soups, 22;  in various meats, 
43 ;  in rice, 84 ;  in vegetables, 
ic6 ;  in different fish, 128 ;  in 
eggs, 164 ;  in cheese, 170 ;  in 
light desserts, 174. 

Filet of beef, 47 ;  of pork, 60 ;  of 
flounder, 134. 

Filets de vent, 189. 



214 



INDEX 



Filling, nut, for cake, 187; orange, 

187. 

Fire, importance of, 4;  for baking 
cake, 183. 

Fish, nutritive value, 11; food value 
of  , 128; nutritive value of differ- 
ent kinds of  , 128; 129; how to 
cook  , 129 ; to boil  , 130 ; Court- 
Bouillon to boil  in, 130; to broil 
 , 134 ;  steak, 135 ; five recipes 
for using remnants of  , 135 ; 136 ; 
Bouille-abaisse, 136 ;  in jelly, 138 ; 

 balls for lobster fricassee, 145 ;  
salad, 159. 

Flounder, filet of, a la Joinville, 

134. 

Flour, unbolted, nutritive value, 11 ; 
 , wheat, 11; 174;  soup No. i, 
23;  soup No. 2, 24;  for cake, 
182. 

Food, how to prepare, 8 ;  , two classes 
of, 8;  , chemistry of, 9;  , daily 
rations of, 9 ;  , nutritive values of 
different, 11;  , necessary amount 
according to Voit, 11 ;  .variety very 
important, 12;  value of soups, 22; 
salt contained in  , 40; waste ma- 
terial in  , 49. 

Forcemeat balls, 28. 

Forms for baking cake, 184. 

Francoise's, Mile., recipe for raw meat 

soup, 37 ; for braised beef, 

46; gives a recipe of Rossini, 

91 ; for macedoine of fruit, 

179. 

French excel in salad dressing, 149. 

French recipe for soup, 24 ; two 

for matelotes offish, 137; 138. 

Fricassee of chicken. See Chicken. 

Fritata. See Eggs. 

Frogs' legs, three recipes, 146. 

Fruit, nutritive value, 11, 174; whipped 
cream with  , 177 ; macedoine of  , 
179 ;  sauce, 181 ; to candy  , 190 ; 

 preserves, see 192. 

Fry, difference between  and saute, 
76 ; how to  , 77 ; batter for  , 78 ; 

 oysters, 142. 



G 



Game, /r<?> soup, 38. 

Gelatine, in general, 78 ; nutritive qual- 
ity of  , 79; dissolved by acids, 79; 
substances yielding  , 79 ; in what 
proportions to use  , 178, 

Georgia recipe for gumbo soup, 33. 

German recipe for rice-flour soup, 25 ; 

for Lenten soup, 34 ; South  

recipe for sauce genoise with salmon, 
133 ; South  way of preparing cod- 
fish, 139; for frogs' legs, 146; 

for Arme Ritter, 174 ;  drop 

cakes, 184. 

Golden dice in soups, 27. 

Gouffe, 75. 

Greek cooks, ancient, 4. 

Gumbo soup, 33. 

H 

Haddock, boiled and stewed, 132. 

Ham dumplings, 28 ;  loses in weight, 
49 ;  , general remarks, 61 ; sauce 
for cold  , 61 ; how to use boiled 
 , 62 ; boiled  , 62 ; roast  , 62. 

Head-cheese. See Calf. 

Herbs, how to preserve, 42 ;  for 
salads, 148, 149 ; dressing of  salad, 

151- 
Herring, nutritive value, 11; 130; 

broiled bloaters, 135. 
Horseradish sauce. See Sauce. 

I 

Invalids. See Sickness. 

Israel cake, 185. 

Italian soup, 32;  recipe for maca- 
roni, 89; another  macaroni dish, 
93;  enthusiast on macaroni, 94; 
 salad, 158. 



Jenny Lind cake, 185. 
Julienne soup, 30. 



INDEX 



2io 



K 



Kale, nutritive value, ii. 

Kidneys, veal, 50 ;  , mutton, 58. 

Kisses, 189. 

Klencke, Dr. Hermann, gives a recipe 

for a dish containing an entire meal, 

105. 
Kohlrabi, to cook, 109. 



Lamartine, 2. 

Lamb loses in weight, 49 ; spring  , 

56. 
La Reyniere's descriptive name for 
calf, 50 ;  descriptive name for pig, 
59;  on macaroni, 88 ;  recipe for 
stuffed tomatoes, 124 ;  on salmon, 

133- 
Larochefoucauld, Duke of, pupil in 

cooking-school, 6. 
Leeks, nutritive value, 11. 
Leg of mutton. See Mutton. 
Lemon peel, how to preserve for use, 

42 ;  pudding, 180. 
Lentils, nutritive value, 11;  soup, 

34- 

Lettuce, nutritive value, 11. See Chap- 
ter on Salads. 

Liebig's influence on cooking, 6;  
recipe for making broth with his 
extract, 18. 

Lightning cake, 185. 

Lobster, cauliflower with, 112; how to 
boil a  , 143;  cutlets, 144;  
stew, 144 ;  fricassee, 144 ; baked 
 145 ; creamed  , 145 ;  sauce, 
146 ;  butter, 146 ;  salad, 160. 

Loin of mutton, see Mutton ; tender  
of pork, 60 ; fore  of pork, 60. 

M 

Macaroni, nutritive value, 11; general 
remarks, 88 ; how to boil  , 89 ; 
Italian recipe for  , 89 ;  al siigo, 
90;  with tomato, 90; praises of 



 , 91 ; stufato a Vitalienne, with  , 
91, 92;  a la menagere, 92;  au 
g?atin, 92;  , another dish, 93 ;  
pie, 94 ; baked  , 94. 

Macaroons, 189. 

Macedoitte of vegetables, 126 ;  of 
fruit, 179. 

Mackerel, broiled, 134. 

Maintenon, Madame de, writes of peas, 
108. 

Marketing, buy the best material, 8. 

Marrow balls, 28. 

Mazarin, Cardinal, 2. 

Meat, how to buy, 3 ; relative value of 
different pieces, 3 ; the best, cheap- 
est, 3 ; how long  should be hung, 
4; fat  , nutritive value, 11; lean 
 , nutritive value, 11; we eat too 
much  , 12 ; Dr. Wiel's recipe for 
good soup and  , 16 ; Liebig's ex- 
tract of  in soup, 17 ; soups of 
chopped  , 36 ; 2)T> 3^ ; relative 
value of different kinds of  , 43 ; 
principle involved in preparing  , 
43 ; precautions in handling  , 45 ; 
stewed or braised  , 45 ; 46 ; time 
for roasting  , 46 ;  jelly, see As- 
pic ; two recipes of Dr. Wiel for 

 jelly for invalids, 82 ; 83 ; dish of 
vegetables and  , 108 ;  salads, 
162. 

Men cooks, 2. 

Menus for luncheons, 207, 208 ;  for 
dinners, 208, 209. 

Merit7gues, 189. 

Mery on bouille-abaisse, 136. 

Mexican beans. See Beans. 

Milk, nutritive value, 11 ; 174. 

Mineral matters, in food, 9 ;  in vari- 
ous meats, 43 ;  in vegetables, 106 ; 

 in spinach, no;  in fish, 128; 

 in eggs, 164 ;  in cheese, 170 ;  
in light desserts, 174. 

Monselet, recipe for duck a la Portu- 
gaise, 49 ;  on salad, 149 ; quotes 
Mery's poem on bouille-abaisse, 136. 

Motto for kitchen, 210. 

Mount Blanc dessert, 176. 



216 



INDEX 



Mushrooms, nutritive value, ii; gen- 
eral remarks, 95 ; description of 
champignon, or edible  , 96; how 
to cook  , 96 ; how to prepare  , 
96; what to do with scrapings, 97. 

Mustard sauce, 132;  butter, 202. 

Mutton loses in weight, 49; general 
remarks, 55 ; boiled  , 56; roast  , 
56; shoulder of  ,57; breast of  , 
57;  chops, 57;  kidneys, 58; 
 as pilaff, 85 ; a dish which is a 
meal in itself, 105. 



N 



New England recipe for boiled cod- 
fish, 139; for codfish balls, 

140, 

Nut filling for cake, 187. 



Okra, 32. 

Omelet soup, 24 ;  , for recipes, see 
Eggs. 

Onions, nutritive value, 11 ;  , stewed, 
124; puree of  , 125;  as a gar- 
nish for a roast, 125. 

Orange, peel, how to preser\'e for use, 
42 ;  filling for cake, 187 ; to candy 

 peel, 191, 
Oriental pilaff, 85. 

Oysters, nutritive value, 11 ;  stuffing, 
67 ; general remarks, 140 ; roast  , 
140 ; panned  , 141 ; scalloped  , 
141 ;  stew, 141 ; fried  , 142 ; 
broiled  , 142;  fricassee, 142; 

 sauce, 142; pickled  , 201. 
Oyster plant. See Salsify. 



Pancakes, 169; 175. 

Panned oysters, 141. 

Parsley, left over, 8 ;  added to soup, 
19; how to preserve  for winter 
use, 42 ; fried  , 66 ;  sauce, 133. 



Parsnips, nutritive value, 11 ; how- to 
cook  , 120. 

Peaches, in halves, 195;  marma- 
lade, 105 ; brandy  , 196. 

Peas, dried, nutritive value, 11;  , 
green, nutritive value, 11 ; green  
soup, 32 ; dried  soup, 34 ;  
pod soup, 36 ; to cook green  , 107 ; 
historical, 108. 

Perch, matelote of, 138. 

Pickled cucumbers, 197;  cabbage, 
198 ;  oysters, 201. 

Pie, macaroni, 94;  indigestible and 
wasteful, 173. 

Pigeons, how to buy, 63; how to cook 
 , 67 ;  with rice, 67 ; stuffing for 
,68. 

Pike, nutritive value, 130 ;  , stewed, 
131 ;  , ringed, 132. 

Pilaff. See Rice. 

Plat de goiit. See Aspic. 

Plato's opinion, 2. 

Poor family, to feed, 21. 

Pork, salt, nutritive value, 11 ; general 
remarks, 59; roast  , 59; filet of 
 , 60 ; foreloin of  , 60 ;  chops, 
61. 

Portuguese, salad, 158 ;  drop cakes, 
189. 

Potage veloute. See Velvety Soup, 24 ; 

 aux voyageurs, 26. 

Potatoes, nutritive value, 11 ;  , sweet, 
11; 121;  soup, 35; general re- 
marks, 99; how to boil  , 99; to 
steam  , 100 ; to bake  , 100 ; some 
kinds of mashed  , loi ; mashed  
au gratin, loi ; other  dishes, loi ; 
roast  , loi ;  pudding with cheese, 
102;  croquettes, 102;  noodles, 
102;  balloons, 103; remnants of 
 , 103 ;  a la maitre d 'hotel, 103 ; 

 stewed in milk, 104;  in broth, 
104; a dish which contains a whole 
meal, 105;  salads, 157; 158. 

Poultry, in general and how to buy, 63 ; 

remnants of  , 66 ; stuthngs for  , 

67. 
Preserving, rules for, 192, 



INDEX 



217 



Pudding, spinach, iii ;  , English, in- 
digestible, 173; apple  , 180; white 
of egg  ,180; custard  ,180; lemon 
 , 180; rice  , iSi. 

Pulse. See Beans, Peas, and Lentils. 

Pumpkin, spiced, 199. 

Punch, tea, 205 ; cardinal  ,206; snow 
 , 206 ; ambrosia  , 206. 

Puree, 36; chicken  soup, 37; game 
 soup, 38;  of spinach, no;  
of onions, 124 ;  of chestnuts, 126. 



Quinces, preserved, 196; 197. 

R 

RagoUt, the principle demonstrated, 69 ; 

difference between salpicon and  , 

70 ; brown  sauce, 71 ; mixed  

in pastry shell, 72. 
Raspberry, foam, 176;  jam, 194;  

sirup, 194;  jelly, 194. 
Red cabbage. See Cabbage. 
Remnants, how to use economically, 7 ; 

 of vegetables in soups, 27 ;  of 
roast beef and beefsteak, 48 ;  of 
boiled ham, 62;  of tongue for 
breakfast, 63 ;  of poultry, 66 ;  
as ragouts, 69 ;  fried in batter, 78 ; 

 of macaroni, 94;  of potato, 
103 ;  of spinach as spinach pud- 
ding, III;  of tomatoes, 124;  
of salmon, 135;  offish, 135; 136; 
138 ;  of oysters, 142;  in salads, 
see Salads, 

Rice, nutritive value, 11 ; 174;  flour 
soup, 25 ; soup with moulded  , 25 ; 
stewed chicken with  , 64 ; pigeons 
with  ,67; a  ring, 73; general 
remarks, 84 ; how to boil  , 85 ; Ori- 
ental pilaff, 85; Turkish pilaff, 86; 
risotto, 87 ; baked  , 87 ; Russian 
 , 178;  pudding, 181. 

Richelieu, Cardinal, 2. 

Risi-pisi, 32. 

Risotto, See Rice. 



Roast, how to, beef, 44 ; loss of weight 
in  ,49;  mutton, 56;  pork, 
59;  tenderloin of pork, 60;  
ham, 62 ;  potatoes, loi ;  oys- 
ters, 140. 

Rodgrod, 176. 

Rossini's praises of macaroni, 91 ; stu- 
fato a I'italienne, 91. 

Roulade of veal, 54; instead of boned 
turkey, 55. 

Rousseau, expert in cooking eggs, 2. 

Rumford, invented a soup, 2; recipe 
for it, 21. 



Sable, Madame de, establishes a cook- 
ing-school, 6. 

Saddle of mutton. See Mutton. 

Sago, nutritive value, 11. 

Salad, general remarks, 147 ; opium 
in  , 148 ; herbs for  , 148 ; 149 ; 
how to make a plain lettuce  , 150 ; 
dressing of herb  , 151 ; combina- 
tions of  , 154; 155; cabbage  , 
155 ; vegetables for  , 155 ; excel- 
lent combination  , 156; cucumber 
 , 156 ; potato  , 157 ; 158 ; Portu- 
guese  , 158 ; Italian  , 158 ; an 
appetizer, 158 ; real sardine  , 159 ; 
Venetian fish  , 159; salmon  , 
160 ; lobster  , 160 ; two vegetable 
 , 161; Dumas  , 162; chicken  , 
162 ; other kinds of meat  , 162 ; 
tomato  , 163. 

Salmon, nutritive value, II ; 130; boiled 
 , 133 ; two sauces for  , 133 ;  
left over, 133 ;  salad, 160. 

Salpicon royal, 70 ;  a la Conde, 70. 

Salsify, how to cook, 119;  a la pou- 
lette, 119;  fritters, 119. 

Salt is contained in most foods, 40; 
adulteration of  , 40 ; how to  , 41 ; 
 assists digestion, 41 ;  raises 
boiling-point of water, 41 ;  in his- 
tory, 41. 

Sand cake, 186. 

Sandwiches, 202 ; 203 ; 204. 



218 



INDEX 



Sardines, nutritive value, ii ; 130 ; real 

 salad, 159 ;  butter, 202. 
Sauce, Cumberland, 60;  for cold 

ham, see Ham; horseradish  , 61; 
how  is made, 70; stock for  , 
71 ; brown ragout  , 71 ; plain 
bechamel  , 72 ;  alletnande, 72 ; 

 maitre d' hotel, 74 ;  tartare, 74 ; 
herb  , 74 ;  for spinach pudding, 
111;  for cauliflower, 112;  hol- 
la7idaise, for fish, 131 ; mustard  , 
132 ; parsley  , 133 ;  gmoise, 133 ; 

 remoulade, 134 ; oyster  , 142 ; 
lobster  , 146 ; mayonnaise  , see 
Dressing ; wine  , 181 ; fruit  , 181 ; 
claret  , 181. 

Sausage stuffing, 67. 

Savoy cabbage. See Cabbage. 

Scalloped oysters, 141. 

Shoulder of mutton. See Mutton. 

Sickness, old fowl for broth, 63 ; two 
recipes for meat-jelly, 82 ; 83 ; frogs' 
legs, 146. 

Snow punch, 206. 

Sorrel with spinach as a vegetable, 
III. 

Soup, how to make broth for, 14; 
recipe for ordinary  liquor, 16; 
Dr. Wiel's recipe for  , 16 ;  made 
of Liebig's extract, 18 ; adding egg 
to  , 18 ; remnants added to  , 
19 ; Rumford  , 21 ; recipe for fa- 
rina  , 23; for flour  No. i, 23; 
for flour  No. 2, 24 ; velvety  , 24 ; 
omelet  , 24; barley  No. i, 24; 
barley  No. 2, 25 ; rice-flour  , 25 ; 
custard for  , 25 ;  with moulded 
rice, 25 ; travellers'  , 26 ; accesso- 
ries to  , 27 ; vegetable  , 30 ; Ju- 
lienne  , 30; Easter  , 31; carrot 
 , 31 ; asparagus  , 31 ; green pea 
 , 32; Italian  , 32; corn  , 32; 
okra  , 32 ; tomato  , 32 ; gumbo 
 , 33 ; black bean  , 33 ;  made 
of pulse, 33 ; 34 ; water  , 34 ; po- 
tato  , 35; green  , 35 ; pea-pod  , 
36 ;  of chopped meat, 36 ; 37 ; 38 ; 
raw meat  , 37 ; chicken puree  , 



37 ; game pnree  , 38 ; sweetbread 

 , 38 ; calf s brain  , 38. 
Spaghetti. See Macaroni. 
Spice, use sparingly, 41; too much  

hurtful, 42 ; buy  whole, 42 ; how 

to keep  , 42. 
Spiced pumpkins, 190. 
Spinach, nutritive value, 11 ;  or 

green soup, 35 ; about  , no; puree 

of  , no;  as an entremets, no; 

 pudding, in;  warmed up, in; 

 and sorrel, in. 

Sponge, balls, for soup, 28 ;  cake, 186. 

Squash, to cook, 122, 

Stewed, mutton, see Braised ;  tur- 
key, 66; potatoes  in milk, 104. 

Striped bass, stuffed and baked, 130. 

Stiifato a I'italienne. See Macaroni. 

Stuffings, for poultry, 67 ;  for pigeons, 
68. 

Sugar, nutritive value, n; 174;  for 
cake, 182. 

Sweetbread, soup, 38 ;  , 52. 

Swiss recipe, potatoes with cheese, 103 ; 
, stewed pike, 131. 

Sydney Smith's recipe for salad dress- 
ing, 152. 



Tarragon, gherkins, 198;  vinegar, 

199. 
Tarts, 188 ; chocolate  , 1S8. 
Tea, nutritive value, n ;  punch, 205. 
Thackeray, poem on bouille-abaisse, 

136. 
Thompson, Benjamin. See Rumford. 
Tomato, soup, 32; macaroni with  , 

90;  belongs to nightshades, 123; 

stew^ed  , 123 ; baked  , 123 ; fried 

 , 123 ; stuffed  , 124;  left over, 

124 ;  salad, 163 ;  catsup, 199. 
Tongue, how to boil, 63 ; breakfast dish 

of cold  , 63. 
Truffles, 97. 
Turkey, loses in weight, 49 ; roulade of 

veal instead of  , 55 ; how to buy  , 

63 ; stewed  , 66. 
Turkish pilaff, 86. 



INDEX 



219 



Turnips, nutritive value, ii ; how to 
cook  . Ii8. 



Veal, general remarks, 50;  kidneys, 
50;  cutlets, 51;  a la parmen- 
tiere, 51; mirotoii of  ,52; roulade 

of  54. 

Vegetables, value in nutrition, 98; nu- 
tritive value of  , 106 ; dish of  
and meat, 108 ; dish of mixed roots, 
120 ; macedoine of  , 126 ;  in 
salads, see Salads. 

Venetian fish salad, 159. 

Vermicelli, nutritive value, 11 ;  soup, 
26. 

Vienna Schnitzel. See Veal Cutlet.  
cake, 186. 



Voit, C, sets down daily rations, 11. 
Vol au vent. See Ragout. 

W 

Water, as refuse matter, 11;  soups, 
34 ; salt raises the boiling-point of  , 
41 ;  waste material, 49 ; large per- 
centage of  in potatoes, 99 ; in veg- 
etables, 106; in different fish, 128; 
in eggs, 164 ; in cheese, 170 ; in light 
desserts, 174. 

Wiel, Dr., how to buy meat, 3 ; recipe 
for better meat and good soup, 16; 
two recipes for meat-jelly, 82 ; 83 ; 
recommends frogs' legs, 146; about 
eggs, 164. 
I Wine sauce, 18 1. 



Typography by J. S. Gushing & Co., Boston, U.S.A. 
Presswork by Berwick & Smith, Boston, U.S.A. 



St. Dunstan's House, Fetter Lane, 

London, E.G. 1892. 

Select List of Books 

in all Departments of 

Literature 

PUBLISHED BY 

Sampson Xow, flDar^ton d Company, Xb. 



ABBEY and PAESONS, Quiet 
Life, from drawings ; motive hj 
Austin Dobson, 31s. 6d. 

ABBOTT, Charles C, Waste 

Land Wanderings, 10s. 6d. 

ABERDEEN, Earl of. See 

Prime Ministers. 
ABNET, Capt., Thebes and its 

Greater Temples, 40 photos. 63s. 

and CUNNINGHAM, 

Pioneers of the Alps, new ed. 21s. 

About in the World. See Gentle 

Life Series. 
 Some Fellows, from my 

note-book, by "an Eton boy," 

2s. Qd. ; new edit. Is. 
ADA]\IS, Charles K., Histori- 
cal Literature, 12s. Qd. 
ADDISON, Sir Boger de Cov- 

erley, from the " Spectator/' 6s. 
AGASSIZ, Alex., Three Cruises 

of the ''Blake," illust. 2 vols. 42s. 
ALBEET, Prince. See Bayard 

Series. 
ALCOTT, L. M. Jo's Boys, 

a seqnel to " Little Men," 5s. 
Life, Letters and Journals, 

by Ednah D. Cheney, 6s. 

Lulu's Library, a story 

for girls, 3s. 6d. 

' Old-fashioned Thanksgiv- 
ing Bay, 3s. 6d. 
 ~ Proverb Stories, 3s. Qd. 



ALCOTT, L. M., Recollections 

of my Childhood's Days, 3s. 6d. 

Silver Pitchers, 'Ss. 6d. 

Spinning-wheel Stories, 5s. 

See also Low's Standard 

Series and Rose Library. 
ALDAM, W. H., Flies and Fly- 

malcing, with actual specimens on 

cardboard, 63s. 
ALDEN, W. L. See Low's 

Standard Series. 
ALFOED, Lady Marian, 

Needleworlc as Art, 21s. ; 1. p, 84s. 
ALGEE, J. G., Englishmen in 

the French Revolution, 7s. Qd. 
Amateur Angler in Dove Dale, 

a three weeks' holiday, by E. M. 

Is. 6^^., Is. and 5s. 
ANDEESEN, H. C, Fairy 

Tales, illust. in colour by E. Y. B. 

25s., new edit. 5s. 
Fairy Tales, illust. by 

Scandinavian artists, Qs. 
ANDEESON, W., Pictorial 

Arts of Japan, 4 parts, 168s. ; 

artist's proofs, 252s. 
ANDEES, Varnishes, Lacquers, 

Siccatives, ^ Sealing-wax, 12s. 6d. 
Angler's strange Experiences, by 

Cotswold Isys, new edit., 3s. 6d. 
ANNESLEY, C, Standard 

Opera Glass, the plots of eighty 

operas, 3rd edit., 2$. 6(2. 



A Select List of Books 



Annual American Catalogue of 
Eoots,. 1886-89, each 10s. 6ci., half 
morocco, 145. , 

1890, cloth, 15s., half 

morocco, cloth sides, 185. 

Antipodea7i Notes; a nine 
months' totir, by Wanderer, 7s. 6d. 

APPLETON, European Guide, 
new edit., 2 parts, 10s. each. 

ARCHER, W., English Drama- 
tists of To-day, 8s. Qd. 

ARLOT'S Coach Painting, from 
the French bj A. A. Fesquet, 
6s. 

AR^IYTAGE, Hox.Mrs., Wars 

of Queen Victoria's Reign, 5s. 
ARNOLD, E., Birthday Book ; 

by Kath. L. and Constance 

Arnold, 4s. 6cZ. 
E. L. L., Summer Holiday 

in Scandinavia, 10s. 6d. 

On the Indian Sills, 



Coffee Planting, ^c, 2 vols. 24s. 
R., Ammonia and Ammo- 



nium Compoicnds, illust. 5s. 
Artistic Japan, text, woodcuts, 
and coloured plates, vols. I.-VI., 
15s. each. 

ASBJORXSEN, P. C, Rou7id 

the Yule Log, 7s. Qd.  new edit. 5s. 
AS FIE, R. P., Tiuo Kings of 

Uganda; six years in Eastern 

Equatorial Africa, Qs. ; new edit. 

3s. Gel. 
Uganda, England^ s latest 

Charge, stiff cover, Is. 
ASHTOX, F. T., Designing 

fancy Cotton and Woollen Cloths, 

illust. 50s. 
ATCHISON, C. C, Winter 

Cruise in Summer Seas ; "how I 

found " health, 16s. 
ATKINSON, J. B. Overbeck, 

See Great Artists. 
ATT WELL, Italian Masters, 
especially in the National Gal- 
lery, 3. 6d 



AUDSLEY, G. A., Chromo- 
lithography, 44 coloured plates 
and text, 63s. 

Ornam7ital Arts of Japan, 

2 vols, morocco, 23Z. 2s. ; four 
parts, 15Z. 15*. 

W. and G. A., Ornament 



in all Styles, 3ls. 6d. 
AUERBACH, B., Brigitta (B. 
Tauchnitz), 2s. j sawed. Is. 6cZ. 

On the Height (B. 

Tauchnitz), 3 vols. 6s. ; sewed, 
4s. 6d. 

Spinoza (B. Tauchnitz), 

AUSTRALIA. SeeE.Countries. 

AUSTRIA. See F. Countries. 

Autumn Cruise in the ^gean, 

^ by one of the party. See '* Fitz- 
patrick." 

BACH. See Great Musicians. 

BACON. See English Philoso- 
phers. 

Tf eJjT A,Biograp)hy, 10s. 6d. 

BADDELEY, W. St. Clair, 
Love's Vintage ; sonnets and 
lyrics, 5s. 

Tchay and Chianti, a 

short visit to Russia and Finland, 
5s. 

Travel-tide, 7s. 6d. 



BAKER, James, John Westa- 
cott, new edit. 6s. and 3s. 6d. 

BALDWIN, J., Story of Sieg- 
fried, illust. 6s. 

Story of Roland, illust. 65. 

Story of the Golden Age, 

illust. 6s. 

J. D., Ancient America, 



illust. 10s. 6d. 
Ballad Stories. See Bayard 

Series. 
Ballads of the Cid, edited by 

Eev. Gerrard Lewis, 3s. 6d. 
BALL ANT YNE, T., Essays. 

See Bayard Series. 



In all Departments of Literature, 



BALLIN, Ada S., Science of 
Dress, illust. Qs. 

BAMFORD, A. J., Turbans 

and Tails, 7s. 6d. 

BANCROFT, G., History of 
America, new edit. 6 vols, 73s. 6d. 

Barhizon Painters, by J. W. 
Mollett  I. Millet, T. Eousseau, 
and Diaz, 3s. Qd. II. Corot, 
Daubigny and Dupre, 3s. Qd. ; 
the two in one vol. 7s. Qd. 

BARING-GOULD. SeeForeign 

Countries. 

BARLOW, A., Weaving, new 

edit. 25s. 

P. 'W .,Kaipara, NetoZ.,6s. 

W., Matter and Force, 

12s. 
BARRETT. See Gr. Musicians. 
BARROW, J., Mountain 

Ascents, new edit. 5s. 
BASSETT, Legends of the Sea, 

7s. 6d. 
BATHGATE, A., Waitaru?ia, 

New Zealand, 5s. 
Baya.rd Series, edited by the 

late J. Hain Friswell ; flexible 

cloth extra, 2s. Qd. each. 
Chevalier Bayard, by Berville, 
De Joinville, St. Louis. 
Essays of Cowley. 
Abdallah, by Laboullaye, 
Table-Talk of Napoleon. 
Vathek, by Beckf ord. 
Cavalier and Puritan Songs. 
"Words of Wellington. 
Johnson's Easselas. 
Hazlitt's Bound Table. 
Browne's Religio Medici. 
Ballad Stories of the Affections, by 

Robert Buchanan. 
Coleridge's Christabel, &c. 
Chesterfield's Letters. 
Essays in Mosaic, by T. Ballan- 

tyne. 
My Uncle Toby. 
Rochefoucauld, Reflections. 
Socrates, Memoirs from Xenophon. 
Prince Albert's Precepts. 



BEACONSFIELD, PuUic Life, 
3s. Qd. 

See also Prime Ministers. 

BEAUGRAND, Young Natu- 
ralists, new edit. 5s. 

BECKER, A.L., First German 
Booh, Is. ; Exercises, Is. ; Key to 
hoth, 2s. Qd. ; German Idioms, 
Is. Qd. 

BECKFORD. SeeBayard Series. 

BEECHER, H. W., Biography, 
new edit. 10s. Qd. 

BEETHOVEN. See Great 
Musicians. 

BEHNKE, E., Child's Voice, 

3s. Qd. 
BELL, Oheah, Witchcraft in the 

West Indies, 2s. Qd. 

BELLENGER & WITCOMB'S 

French and English Conversations, 

new edit. Paris, bds. 2s. 
BENJAMIN, Atlantic Islands 

as health, ^c, resorts. 16s. 
BERLIOZ. See Gr. Musicians. 
BERVILLE. See Bayard Series. 
BIART, Young Naturalist, 

new edit. 7s. Qd. 
Involuntary Voyage, 7s.Gd. 

and 5s. 

Two Friends, translated by 



Mary de Hauteville, 7s. Qd. 
See also Low's Standard Books. 
BICKERSTETH, Ashley, 
B. A., Outlines of Roman History, 
2s. Qd. 

E. H., Exon., Clergyman 

in his Home, Is. 

From Year to Year, 

original poetical pieces, morocco 
or calf, 10s. Qd. ; padded roan, Qs. ; 
roan, 5s. ; cloth, 3s. Qd. 

Hymnal Companion, full 



lists post free. 

Mastefs Home Call, new 



edit. Is. 

-  Octave cf Hymns, sewn, 3tZ , 
with music, Is. 



A Select List of Books 



BICKERSTETH, E. H., Exon., 
Reef, Parables, &o., illast. 7s. 6d. 
and 2s. 6d. 

Shadowed Honie^ n. ed. 5^. 

BIGELOW, John, France and 

the Confederate Navy, .an inter- 
national episode, 7s. 6d. 
BILBROUGH, 'Twixt France 

and Spam, 7s. 6d. 

BILLROTH, Care of the Sick, 6s. 
BIRD, F. J., Dyer's Companion, 
42s. 

F. S., Land of Dykes and 



Windmills, 12s. Qd. 
 'K.Yi. , Chess Practice, 2s.Qd. 



See ^NTursing Record 



BISHOP. 
Series. 

BLACK, Robert, Horse Racing 

in France, 14s. 
 W., Donald Ross of 

Heimra, 3 vols. 31s. 6d. 

Novels, new and uniform 



edition in montlilj vols. 2s. 6c7. ea. 
 SeeLow's Standard Novels. 
BLACKBURN, C. F., Cata- 

logue Titles, Index Entries, Sfc. lis. 
H., Art in the Mountains, 



new edit. 5s. 
   Artists and Arabs, 7s. 6d, 

Breton Folk, new issue, 

10s. 6d. 

Harz Mountains, 12s. 

Normandy Picturesque, 

16s. 

Pyrenees, illust. by Gus- 

tave Dore, new edit. 7s. Qd. 

BLACKMORE.R.D., Georgics, 

4s. 6d. ; cheap edit. \s. 

Lorna Doone, edit, de luxe, 

35s., 31s. 6d. & 21s. 

Lorna Doone, iUust. by 



W. Small, 7s, Qd. 
 Springhaven, illust. 12s. ; 

new edit. 7s. Qd. & 6s. 
 See also Low's Standard 

Novels. 



BLAIKIE, How to get Strong, 
new edit. 5s. 

Sound Bodies for our Boys 

and Girls, 2s. 6d. 

BLOOMFIELD. See Choice 

Editions. 
Bobby, a Story, by Vesper, Is. 

B OCK, Head Hunters of Borneo, 
36s. 

Temples ^ Elephants, 21s. 

BONAPARTE, Mad. Patter- 
son, Life, 10s. Qd. 

BONWiCK, James, Colonial 
Bays, 2s. Qd. 

Colonies, Is. ea. ; 1 vol. 5s. 

Daily Life of the Tas- 

manians, 12s. 6d. 

First Twenty Years of 



Australia, 5s. 

Last of the Tasmanians, 1 6s. 

Port Philip, 21s. 

Lost Tasmanian Race, 4s. 



BOSANQUET, C, Blossoms 
from the King's Garden, 6s. 

Jehoshaphaty Is. 

Lenten Meditations, I. 

Is, Qd. ; II. 2s. 

Tender Grass for Lambs, 



2s. Qd. 
BOULTON, N. W. Rebellions, 

Canadian life, 9s. 
BOURKE, On the Border with 

CrooTc, illust., roy. 8vo, 21s. 

SnakeDanceofArizona,21s. 

BOUSSENARD. See Low's 

Standard Books. 
BOWEN, F., 3Iodern Philo- 
sophy, new ed. 16s. 
BOWER. See English Philo- 

Bophers. 
Law of Electric Lighting, 

12s. 6d. 
BOYESEN, H. H., Against 

Heavy Odds, 5s. 
History of Nonoay, 7s. 6^. 



In all Departments of Literature, 



BOYESEN, ModernVikings, 6s. 

Boy^s Froissart, King Arthur, 

Malinogian, Percy, see ** Lanier." 

BRADSHAW, JVew Zealand 

as it is, 12s. 6d. 

New Zealand of To- day, 1 4. 

BRANNT, Fats and Oils, 35s. 

Soap and Candles, Sds. 

Vinegar, Acetates, 25s. 

Distillation of Alcoliol, 

125. Qd. 
Metal Worker's Receipts, 

12s. 6d. 

Metallic Alloys, 12s. M. 

and WAHL, Techno- 



Chemical Receipt Book, 10s. Qd. 

BRASSEY, Lady, Tahiti, 21s. 

BREMONT. See Low's Stan- 
dard Norels. 

BRETOX, Jules, Life of an 

Artist, an autobiography, 7s. 6d. 
BRISSE, Menus and Recipes, 

new edit. 5s. 
Britons in Brittany, by G. H. F. 

2s. Gd. 
BROOK- ARNOLD. See Great 

A T*f"1 Q r Q 

BROOKS, Noah, Boy Settlers, 

Qs. 
BROWN, A. J., Rejected of 

Men, 3 s. Qd. 
A. S. Madeira and Canary 

Islands for Invalids, 2s. 6d. 

Northern Atlantic, for 



travellers, 4s. 6cZ. 
Robert. See 



Low's 

Standard Norels. 
BROWNE, Lennox, and 

BEHNKE, Voice, Song, ^ Speech, 

15s. ; new edit. 5s. 

Voice Use, 3s. Qd. 

Sir T. See Bayard Series. 

BRYCE, G., Manitoba, 7s. ed. 
Short History of the 

Canadicijn People, 7s, 6d, 



BUCHANAN, R. See Bayard 

Series. 

BULKELEY, Owen T., Lesser 
Antilles, 2s. 6d. 

BUNYAN. See Low's Stan- 

dard Series. 
BURDETT-COUTTS, Brook- 

field Stud, 5s. 

BURGOYNE, Operations in 

Egypt, 5s. 

BURNABY, F. See Low's 

Standard Library. 
Mrs., High Alps in Win- 

ier 14s 
BURNLEY, James, History of 

Wool, 21s. 

BUTLER, Col. Sir W. F., 

Campaign of the Cataracts, ISs. 

Bed Cloud, 7s. 6d. ^ 5s. 

See also Low's Standard 

Books. 

BUXTON, Ethel M. Wilmot, 

Wee Folk, 6s. 

See also Illust. Text Books. 

BYNNER. See Low's Stan- 
dard Novels. 

CABLE, G. W.,Bonaventure, 5s 

CADOGAN, Lady A., Drawing- 
rooin Comedies, illust. 10s. 6d., 
acting edit. Qd. 

Illustrated Games of 

Patience, col. diagrams, 12s. Qd. 
 New Games of Patience, 



with coloured diagrams, 12s. Qd. 

CAHUN. See Low's Standard 
Books. 

CALDECOTT, Randolph, 
Memoir, by H. Blackburn, new 
edit. '7s. Qd. and 5s. 

Sketches, pict. bds. 2s. 6(f. 

CALL, Annie Payson, Powor 
through Repose, 3s. Qd. 

CALLAN, H., M.A., Wander- 
ings on Wheel and Foot throug\ 
Europe, Is. Qd. 

Camln'idge Trifles, 2s. 6i. 



A Select List of Books 



CambHdge Staircase, 2s. Qd, 
CAISIPBELl^, Lady Colin, 

Booh of the Running Brooh, 5s. 

T. See Choice Editions. 

CANTEKBURY, Archbishop. 

See Preachers. 
CARLETOX, Will, City 

Balladsy illust. 125. 6cl. 

City Legends, ill. 12c^. 6r?. 

Farm Festivals, ill. 12-5. Qd. 

See also Rose Library. 

CARLYLE, Irish Journey in 
18i9, 7s. 6cZ. 

CARNEGIE, Andrew, Ameri- 
can Foxcr-m-hand in Britain, 
lOs. 6d. ; also Is. 

Round the World, ] 0.^. Qd. 

Triumphant Democracy, 

6s. J new edit. Is. Qd. ; paper, Is. 

CAROV:^, Story without an 
End, illust. by E. V. B., 7s. 6d. 

Celebrated Racehorses, 4 vols. 
126s. 

CELI^RE. See Low's Stan- 
dard Books. 

Changed Cross, &c., poems, 2s.Qd. 

Chant-hook Companion to the 
Common Prayer, 2s. ; organ ed. 4s. 

CHAPIN, Mountaineering in 
Colorado, 10s. Qd. 

CHAPLIN, J. G., Bookkeeping, 
2s. 6d. 

CHATTOCK, Notes on Etching 
ne"w edit. 10s. Qd. 

CHERUBINI. See Great 
Musicians. 

CHESTERFIELD. See Ba- 
yard Series. 

Choice Editions of choice hooks, 
illustrated by C. W. Cope, R.A., 
T. Creswick, R.A., E. Duncan, 
Birket Foster, J. C. Horsley, 
A.R.A. , G. Hicks, R. Redgrave, 
R.A., C. Stonehouse, F. Tayler, 
G. Thomas, H. G. Townsend, 



Choice Editions  continued. 

E. H. Wehnert, Harrison Weir, 
&c., cloth extra gilt, gilt edges, 
2s. 6cZ. each ; re-issue, Is. each. 

Bloomfield's Farmer's Boy. 

Campbell's Pleasures of Hope. 

Coleridge's Ancient Mariner. 

Goldsmith's Deserted Village. 

Goldsmith's Vicar of Wakefield. 

Gray's Elegy in a Churchyard. 

Keats' Eve of St. Agnes. 

Milton's Allegro. 

Poetry of Nature, by H. Weir. 

Rogers' Pleasures of Memory. 

Shakespeare's Songs and Sonnets, 

Elizabethan Songs and Sonnets. 

Tennyson's May Queen. 

Wordsworth's Pastoral Poems. 

CHREIMAN, Physical Culture 
of Women, Is. 

CLARK, A., A Dark Place of 

the Earth, 6s. 

Mrs. K. M., Southern 

Cross Fairy Tale, 5s. 

CLARKE, C. C, Writers, 
and Letters, 10s. 6d. 

Percy, Three Diggers, 6s. 

Valley Council; from T. 

Bateman's Journal, 6s. 

Classified Catalogue of English- 
printed Educational Works, 3rd 
edit. 6s. 

Claude le Lorrain. See Great 

A. T* i" 1 ^ i"^ 

CLOUGH, A. H., Plutarch's 

Lives, one vol. 18s. 
COLERIDGE, C. R., English 

Squire, 6s. 
S. T. See Choice Editions 

and Bayard Series. 

COLLINGWOOD, H. See 

Low's Standard Books. 
COLLINSON, Adm. Sir R., 
H.M.S. Enterprise in Search of 
PranMin, 14s. 

CONDER, 3., Flowers of Japan; 
Decoration, coloured Japanese 
Plates, 42s. nett. 



In all Departments of Literature. 



CORREGGIO. See Great 
Artists. 

COWLEY. See Bayard Series. 

COX, David. See Great Artists. 

COZZENS, F., American 

Yachts, pfs. 211. ; art. pfs. 31Z. 10s. 

See also Low's Standard 

Books. 

CRADDOCK. See Low's 

Standard Novels. 
CREW, B. J., Petroleum, 2U-. 
CRISTIANI, R. S., Socq^ and 

Candles J 42s. 

Perfumery, 25s. 

CROKER, Mrs. B. M. See 

Low's Standard Novels. 
CROUCH, A. P., Glimpses of 

Feverland (West Africa), 6s. 

On a Surf-hound Coast, 

7s. 6 J. ; new edit. 5s. 

CRUIKSHANK G. See 

Great Artists. 
CUDWORTH, W., AbraJiam 

Sharp, 26s. 

CUMBERLA]S"D, Stuart, 

Thought-reader' s Thoughts, \0s. Qd. 
  See also Low's Standard 

Novels. 
CUKDALL, F. See Great 

Artists. 

 J., Shakespeare^ 3s. Gt?., 
5s. and 2^. 

CURTIN, J., Myths of the Bus- 

sians, 10s. 6d. 

CURTIS, C. B., Velazquez and 
Murillo, with etchings, 31s. 6c?. 
and 63s. 

CUSHIXG, W., Anomjms, 2 
vols. 52s. 6d. 

 Initials and Pseudonyms, 
25s. ; ser. II., 21s. 

CUTCLIFFE, H. C, Trout 

Fishing, new edit. 3s. 6c?. 

DALY, Mrs. D., Digging, 
Squatting, Sfc, in N, S. Australia, 
12s. 



D'ANVERS, N., Architecture 

and Sculpture, new edit. 5s. 

Elementary Art, Archi- 

lecture, Sculpture, Painting, new 
edit. 10s. 6d. 

Elementary History of 



Music, 2s. 6cZ. 

Painting, by F. Cundall, 



Gs. 
DAUDET, A., My Brother 

Jach, 7s. 6d. ; also 5s. 
Port Tarascon, by H. 

James, 7s. 6d. ; new edit. 5s. 
DAA^IES, C, Modern Whist, 

4s. 
DAVIS, C. T., BricJcs, Tiles, 

^c, new edit. 25s. 
Manufacture of Leather^ 

52s. Qd. 

Manufacture of Paper, 28s. 

Steam Boiler Incrustation^ 



8s. Qd. 

G. B., International Laio, 



10s. Qd. 
DAWIDOWSKY, Glue, Gela- 

tine, ^c, 12s. Gd. 
Day of my Life, by an Eton boy, 

new edit. 2s. 6cZ. ; also Is. 
DE JOmVILLE. See Bayard 

Sris 
DE LEON, Edwin, Vnder the 

Stars and Under the Crescent, 

2 vols. 123. ; new edit. Qs. 
DELLA ROBBIA. See Great 

Artists. 
Denmark and Iceland. See 

Foreign Countries. 
DENNETT, R. E., Seven Years 

among the Fjort, 7s. 6d. 
DERRY (Bishop of). See 

PrcSiCliGrs 

DE WINT. See Great Artists. 

DIGGLE, J. W., Bishop Era- 
ser's Lancashire Life, new edit. 
12s. 6d. ; popular ed. 3*. 6d. 

Sermons for Daily Life, 5s 



8 



A Select List of Books 



DOBSOX, Austin, Hogarth, 

with a bibliography, ;fcc., of 
prints, illust. 2-4s.; 1. paper 52s. Qd. 

See also Great Artists. 

DODGE, Mrs., Hans Brinker, 
the Silver Skates, new edit. 5s., 
3s. 6d.. 2s. 6d. ; text only, Is. 

DOXKII^, J. G., Troojyer and 
Fedskin; IST. W. mounted police, 
Canada, 8s. 6d. 

D0:N^NELLY, Ignatitjs, Atlan- 
tis, the Antediluvian World, new 
edit. 12s. 6d. 

 Ccesar's Column, authorized 

edition, 3s. 6d. 

Doctor Huguet, 35. GcZ. 

Great Crijptogram, Bacon's 



Cipher in Shakespeare, 2 vols. 
30s. 

Ragnarolc : the Age of 



Fire and Gravel, 12s. Qd. 

DORE, GUSTAVE, Life and Re- 
miniscences, by Blanche Roose- 
velt, fully illust. 24s. 

DOS PASSOS, J. R., Law of 
Stockbrokers and Stock Exchanges, 
35s. 

DOUDNEY, Sarah, Godiva 
Durleigh, 3 vols. 31s. 6d. 

DOUGALL, J. D., Shooting 

Appliances, Practice, ^c, 10s. 6d.; 

new edit. 7s. 6c?. 
DOUGHTY, H. M., Friesland 

Meres and the Netherlands, new 

edit, illust. 10s. ed. 
DOVETOX, F. B., Poems and 

Snatches of Songs, 6s. ; new edit. 

3.?. 6d. 
DU CHAILLU, Paul. See 

Low's Standard Books. 
DUXCKLEY C'Yerax.") See 

Prime Ministers. 

DUXDERDALE, George, 

Prairie and Busk, 6s. 
Durer. See Great Artists. 
DYKES, J. Oswald. See 

Preachers. 



Echoes from the Heart, 3s. Qd. 

EDEN, C. H. See Foreign 
Countries. 

EDMONDS, C, Roetrij of the 
Anti-Jacolin, new edit. 7s. 6c?. 
and 21s. 

Educational Catalogue. See 
Classified Catalogue. 

EDWARDS, American Steam 

Engineer, 12s. Qd. 
Modern Locomotive En- 
gines, 12s. Qd. 

Steam Engineer's Guide, 



12s. Qd. 

H. Sutherland. 



See 
Great Musicians. 

M. B., Dream of Millions, 



^"c, Is. 
See Low's StandardNovels. 



EGGLESTON, G. Gary, Jug- 

gernaut, 6s. 
^Uypt- See Foreign Countries. 
Elizabethan So7igs. See Choice 

Editions. 

EMERSON, Dr. P. H., East 

Coast Yarns, Is. 

English Idylls, new ed. 25. 

Naturalistic Photography, 

new edit. 5s. 

Pictures of East Anglian 



Life ; plates and vignettes, 105s. 
and 147s. 

and GOODALL, Life on 



the Norfolk Broads, plates, 126s. 
and 210s. 

Wild Life on a Tidal 



Water, copper plates, ord. edit. 

25s. ; edit, de luxe, 63s. 
R. W., by G. W. COOKE, 

8s. Qd. 

Birthday Pooh, 3s. 6d. 

In Concord, a memoir, 

7s. 6d. 
English Catalogue, 1863-71, 

42s.; 1872-80, 42s. j 1881-9, 

52s. 6d. i 5s. yearly. 



In all Departments of Literature, 



English Catalogue, Index vol. 
1837-56, 26s. J 1856-76, 42s.; 
1874-80, 18s. 

Etchings, vol. v. 45s. ; vi.^ 

25s. ; vii., 25s. ; viii., 42s. 

English Philosophers, edited by 
E. B. Ivan Miiller, M.A., 3s. M. 
each. 

Bacon, by Fowler. 

Hamilton, by Monck. 

Hartley and James Mill, by Bower. 

Shaftesbury & Hutcbeson ; Fowler. 

Adam Smith, by J. A. Farrer. 

ERCKMANJN-CHATRIAK 

See Low's Standard Books. 
ERICHSON, Life, by W. C. 

Church, 2 vols. 24s. 

ESMA.RCH, F., Handbook of 

Surgerij, 24s. 
Essays on English Writers. 

See Gentle Life Series. 
EVANS, G. E., Repentance of 

Magdalene Despar, Sfc, poems, 

5s. 
S. & F., Upper Ten, a 

story. Is. 
W. E., Songs of the Birds, 

n. ed. 6s. 
EVELYIST, J., An Inca Queen, 

5s. 
^ John, Ldfe of Mrs. Godol- 

phin, 7s. 6d. 

EVES, C. W., West Indies, 
n. ed. 7s. 6d. ' 

FAIRBAIRN, A. M. See 

Preachers. 
Familiar Words. See Gentle 

Life Series. 
EARINI, G. A., Kalahari 

Desert, 21s. 
EARRAR, C. S., History of 

Sculpture, Sfc, 6s. 

Maurice, Minnesota, 65. 

FAURIEL, Last Days of the 

Consulate, 10s. Qd. 

FAY", T., Hiree Germany s, 2 
vols. 355. 



FEILDEN, H. St. J., Some 

Public Schools, 2s. 6d, 

Mrs., My African Home. 

7s. 6d. 

FENJ^, G. Manville. See 
Low's Standard Books. 

FEN:N'ELL, J. G., BooJc of tlie 
Roach, n. ed. 2s. 

FFORDE, B., Subaltern, Police- 
man, and the Little Girl, Is. 

Trotter, a Poona Mystery, 

Is. 

FIELD, Maunsell B., Memo- 
ries, lOs. Qd. 

FIELDS, James T., Memoirs. 
12s. Gd. 

 Yesterdays with Author s^ 

16s. ; also lOs. Qd. 

Figure Painters of Holland. 
See Great Artists. 

FINCK, Henry T., Pacific 
Coast Scenic Tour, 10s. 6d. 

FITCH, Lucy. See Nursing 
Record Series, Is. 

FITZGERALD. 

Countries. 

Percy, Book Fancier^ 5s. 

and 12s. Gd. 

FITZPATRICK, T., Autumn 
Cruise in the JEgean, 10s. 6(Z 

Transatlantic Holiday, 

10s. 6(Z. 

FLEMING, S., England and 
Canada, Qs. 

Foreign Countries and British 
Colonies, descriptive handbooks 
edited by F. S. Pulling, M.A. 
Each volume is the work of a 
writer who has special acquaint- 
ance with the subject, 3s. Qd. 

Australia, by Fitzgerald. 

Austria-Hungary, by Kay. 

Denmark and Iceland, by E. C. Ott^. 

Egypt, by S. L. Poole. 

France, by Miss Roberts. 

Germany, by L. Sergeant. 

Greece, by S. Baring Gould. 



See Foreign 



12 



A Select List of Books 



Great Artists  continued, 

Eembrandt. 

Reynolds. 

Eomney and Lawrence, 2s. Qd. 

Rubens, by Kett. 

Tintoretto, by Osier. 

Titian, by Heath. 

Turner, by Monkhouse. 

Vandyck and Hals. 

Yelasquez. 

Vernet & Delaroclie. 

Watteau, by Mollett, 2s. Qd. 

Wilkie, by Mollett. 

Great Musicians, edited by 
F. Hueffer. A eeriea of bio- 
graphies, 3s. each :  

Bach, by Poole. 

Beethoven. 

*Berlioz. 

Cherubini. 

English Church Composers. 

Gluck. 

Handel. 

Haydn. 

*Marcello. 

Mendelssohn. 

Mozart. 

*Palestrina and the Roman School. 

Purcell. 

Rossini and Modern Italian School. 

Schubert. 

Schumann. 

Richard Wagner. 

Weber. 

* Are not yet puhlished. 

Greece. See Foreign Countries. 

GRIEB, German Dictionary, n. 
ed. 2 vols. 21s. 

GRIMM, H., Literature, 8s. Qd. 

GROHMANN, Cam^s in the 
RocJcies, 12s. 6d. 

GROVES, J. Percy. See 

Low's Standard Books. 
GUIZOT, History of England, 
illust. 3 vols, re-issue at 10s. 6d. 
per vol. 

History of France, illust. 



re-issue, 8 vols. 10s. Qd. each. 
Abridged by G. Masson, 5s. 



GUYON, Madame, Lifey 6s. 



HADLEY, J., Roman Law, 

7s. 6d. 

Half-length Portraits. See 
Gentle Life Series. 

HALFORD, F. M., Dry Fly- 
fishing, n. ed. 25s. 

Floating Flies, 15s. & 30s. 

HALL, Hoto to Live Long, 2s. 

HALSEY, F. A., Slide Valve 
Gears, 8s. Qd. 

HAMILTON. See English 
Philosophers. 

E. Fly-fishing, Qs. and 

10s. Qd. 

Riverside Naturalist, 14s. 



HAMILTON'S Mexican Hand- 
hook, 8s. 6d. 

HANDEL. See Great Musi- 
cians. 

HANDS, T;, Numerical Exer- 
cises in Chemistry, 2s. 6d. ; with- 
out ans. 2s. ; ans. sep. 6d. 

Haiidy Guide to Dry-fly Fishing , 
by Cotswold Isys, Is. 

Handy Guide Booh to Japanese 
Islands, 6s. 6d. 

HARDY, A. S., Passe-rose, 6s. 
Thos. See LoVs Stand- 
ard Novels. 
HARKUT, F., Conspirator, 6s. 

HARLAND, Marion, Home 

Kitchen, 5s. 
Harper's Young People, vols. 

I. VII. 7s. 6d. each; gilt 8*. 
HARRIES, A. See Nursing 

Record Series. 

HARRIS, W. B., Land of the 
African Sultan, 10s. 6d. j 1. p. 
31s. 6d. 

HARRISON, Mary, Modern 

CooTcery, Qs. 

Skilful CooTc, n. ed. 5s. 

Mrs. B. Old-fashioned 

Fairy Book, 6s. 

W. , London Houses, Illust. 



n. edit. Is. 6d., Qs. net ; & 2s. 6d, 



In all Departments of Literature, 



n 



HARTLEY and MILL. See 

Euglish Philosophers. 

HATTON, Joseph, JournaXutic 

London, 12s. 6d. 
See also Low's Standard 

Novels. 

IlAWElS,'H..'R.,Broad Church, 
6s. 

 Poets in the FulpitJlOs.Qd. 
new edit. 6s, j also 3s. 6d. 

Mis., Housekeeping, 2s. 6d. 

Beautiful Houses, 4s., new 

edit. Is. 
HAYDN. See Great Musicians. 
HAZLITT, W., Round Table, 

2s 6d. 

HEAD, Percy R. See Illus. 

Text Books and Great Artists. 
HEARD, A.F., Russian Church, 

16s. 
HEARN, L., Youma, bs. 
HEATH, F. G., Fern World, 

12s. 6cZ., new edit. Qs. 
' Gertrude, Tell us Why, 

2s. ed. 
HELDMANI^, B., Mutiny of 

the *' Leander," 7s. 6d. and 5s. 
^^ See also Low's Standard 

Books for Boys. 
HENTY, G. A., Hidden Foe, 

2 vols. 21s. 
 See also Low's Standard 

Books for Boys. 

Richmond, Australiana, 

5s. 

HERBERT, T., Salads and 

Sandwiches, 6d. 

HICKS, C. S., Our Boys, and 

what to do with Them; Merchant 

Service, 5s. 
~ Yachts, Boats, and Canoes, 

10s. 6d. 
HIGGINSON, T. W., Atlantic 

Essays, 6s. 

History of the U.S., illust. 

lis. 



HILL, A. Staveley, From 
Home to Home in N.-W, Canada, 
21s., new edit. 7s. 6d. 

^^ G. B., Footsteps of John- 
son, 63s, ; edition de luxe, 147*. 

HINMAK, R., Eclectic Physi- 
cal Geography, 6s. 

Hints on proving Wills without 
Professional Assistance, n, ed. Is. 

HOEY, Mrs. Cashel. See 
Low's Standard Novels. 

HOFEER, Caoutchouc 4' Gutta 

Percha, 12s. Gd. 
HOGARTH; See Gr. Artists. 
HOLBEIN. See Great Artists. 
HOLDER, Charles F., Ivory 

King, 8s. Qd. 

Living Lights, 8^. 6c?. 

Marvels of Animal Life, 

8s. Gd. 
HOLM^ Saxe, Draxy Miller, 

2s. Gd. and 2s, 
HOLMES, 0. Wendell, Before 

the Curfew, 5s. 

Over the Tea Cups, 6s. 

Iron Gate, ^'c. Poems, 6. 

Last Leaf, 42^. 

Mechanism in Thought 

and Morals, Is. Gd. 

 Mortal Antipathy, 8s. 6t?., 



2s. and Is. 

Our Hundred 

Europe, new edit. Gb. 
15s. 



Days in 
1 1. paper 



Poetical Works, new edit., 

2 vols. 10s. Gd. 

Works, prose, 10 vols. ; 

poetry, 4 vols.; 14 vols. 84s. 
Limited large paper edit., 14 vols. 
294s. nett. 

See also Low's Standard 



Novels and Rose Library. 

HOLUB, E., South Afnca, 

2 vols. 42s. 
HOPKINS, Manley, Treatise 
on the Cardinal Numbers, Zs, Qd, 



14 



A Select List of Books 



Horace in Lati7i, with Smart's 
literal translation, 2s. 6d. ; trans- 
lation only, Is. 6d. 

HORETZKY, C, Canada on 

the Pacific, 5s. 
Soto arid tvhere to Fish in 

Ireland, by H. Hegan, 3s. 6d. 

HOWARD, Blanche W., To7uj 

the Makl, 3s. 6d. 
See also Low's Standard 

Novels. 
HOWELLS, W. D., Suburban 

Sketches, 7s. 6d. 
Undiscovered Country, 

3s. fid. and Is. 

HOWORTH, H. H., Glacial 

Nightmare, 18s. 

Mammoth and the Floods 



18s. 

HUDSO:^r, N. H., Purple Land 
that England Lost ; Banda Orien- 
tal 2 vols. 21s. : 1 vol. 6s. 

HUEFFER. E. See Great 
Musicians. 

HUGHES, Hugh Price. See 

r^T p fi. r* n (-* T* s 

HUME, F., Creature of the 

Night, Is. 

Humorous Art at the Naval 

Exhibition, Is. 

HUMPHREYS, Jennet, Some 

Little Britons in Brittany, 2s. fid. 
Hundred Greatest Men, new 

edit, one vol. 21s. 
HUNTINGDON, The Squire's 

Nieces, 2s. 6d. (Playtime Library.) 
HYDE, Hundred Years by 

Post, is. 
HymT\al Companion to the 

Booh of Common Prayer, separate 

lists gratis. 
Iceland. See Foreign Countries. 
Hlustrated Text-Books of Art- 
Education, edit, by E. J. Poynter, 

R.A., illust. 5s. each. 
Architecttire, Classic and Early 

Christian. 



Illust. Text-Boohs  continued. 

Architecture, Gothic and Renais- 
sance. 

German, Flemish, and Dutch 
Painting. 

Painting, Classic and Italian. 

Painting, English and American. 

Sculpture, modern. 

Sculpture, by G. Redford. 

Spanish and French artists. 

INDERWICK, F. A., Inter- 

regnum., 10s. 6d. 
Sidelights on the Stuarts, 

new edit. 7s. 6d. 
INGELOW, Jean. See Low's 

Standard Novels. 
INGLIS, Our Neio Zealand 

Cousins, 6s. 
Sport and Work on tlie 

Nepaul Frontier, 21s. 
Tent Life in Tiger Land, 

18s. 
IRVING, W., Little Britain, 

10s. 6d. and 6s. 
Works, " Geoffrey Cray- 
on" edit. 27 vols. 161. 16s. 
JACKSON, J._, Handioriting 

in Relation to Hi/giene, 3d. 
Neio Style Vertical Writing 

Coptz-Boolis, Series I. 1  8, 2d, 

and Id. each. 
New Code Copy-Books^ 

22 Nos. 2d. each. 

Shorthand of Arithmetic, 



Companion to all Arithmetics, 

Is. 6d. 

L., Ten Centuries of Euro- 



pean Progress, with maps, 12s. 6d. 
JAMES, Croake, Law and 

Laiuyers, new edit. 7s. 6d. 

Henry. See Daudet, A. 

JAMES and MOL:e'S Fre7ich 

Dictionary , 3s. 6d. cloth ; roan, 5s. 
JAMES, German Dictionary ^ 
3s. 6d. cloth ; roan 5s. 

JANVIER, Aztec Treasure 
House^ 7s, 6d. j new edit. 5*. 



In all Departments of Literature, 



15 



Japan, See Foreign Countries. 

JEFFERIES, Richard, Ama- 
ryllis at the Fair, 7s. 6d. 

Bevis, new edit. 5s. 

JEPHSOiST, A. J. M., Emin 
Pasha relief expedition, 21s. 

JERDOX. See Low's Standard 
Series. 

JOHXSTON, H.H., The Congo, 
21s. 

JOH:N'STOIT-LAyiS, H. J., 

South Italian Volcanoes, 15s. 
JOHNSTONE, D. L., Land of 

the Mountain Kingdom, new edit. 

3s. Qd. and 2s. Qd. 
JONES, Mrs. Herbert, San- 

dyringham, Past and Present, 

illust., new edit. 8s. 6d. 
JULIEN, F., Conversational 

French Reader, 2s. 6d. 
' English Student's French 

Examiner, 2s. 
  First Lessons in Conversa- 
tional French Grammar, n.ed. Is, 
French at Home and at 

School, Book I. accidence, 2s. ; 

key, 3s. 

I* elites Legons de Conver- 
sation et de Grammaire, n. ed. 3s. 
 JPetites Legons, with 



phrases, 3s. Qd. 
Phrases of 



Daily Use, 
separately, 6d. 
KARR, H. W. Seton, Shores 

and Alps of Alas'ka, 16s. 

KARSLAND, Veva, Women 

and their WorJc, Is. 
KiiY. See Foreign Countries. 
KENNEDY, E. B., Blacks and 

Bushrangers, new edit. 5s., 3s. 6d. 

and 2s. 6d. 
KERR, W. M., Far Interior, 

the Cape, Zambesi, S^c, 2 vols. 32s. 
KERSHAW, S. W., Protest- 

ants from France in their English 

Home, 6s. 

KETT, C, W., Eubens, Ss. Qd, 



Khedives and Pashas, 7s. 6d. 

KILNER, E. A., Four Welsh 
Counties, 5s. 

Finland Commons. See Cavalier 
in Bayard Series. 

KINGSLEY, R. G., Children 

of Westminster Abhey, 5s. 

KINGSTON. See Low's 
Standard Books. 

KIPLING, RuDYARD, Soldiers 
Three, 8)'c., stories, Is. 

Story of the Gadshys, new 

edit. Is. 
Li Black and White, &c., 

stories. Is. 

Wee Willie WinMe, ^'c, 

stories, Is. 

Under the Deodars, ^'c.y 

stories, Is. 

Phantom Rickshaw, ^-c, 

stories, Is. 
*^* The six collections of sicries 

may also be had in 2 vols. 3s. Qd,. 

each. 
Stories, Library Edition, 

2 vols. 6s. each. 
KIRKALDY, W. G., David 

Kir^'aldy' s Mechanical Testing, Sis. 

KNIGHT, A. L., In the Web 

of Destiny, 7s. 6d. 

E. F., Cruise of the Fal- 
con, new edit. 3.. 6d. 

E. J.^ Albania and Monte- 
negro, 12s. 6d. 

y. C, Church Unity, 5s. 

KNOX, T. W., Boi/ Travellers, 
new edit. 5s. 

KNOX-LITTLE, W. J., Ser- 

mons, 3s. 6cZ. 

KUNHARDT, C. P., Small 

Yachts, new edit. 50s. 

Steam Yachts, 16s. 

KWONG, English Phrases, 21s. 
LABOULLAYE, E., Abdallah, 

2s. 6d. 
LALANNE, Etching, 12s. Qd, 



i6 



A Select List of Books 



LAMB, Chas., Essay a of Elia, 
with designs by C. 0. Murray, 6s. 

LAMBERT, Angling Liter a-- 
ture, 3s. 6d. 

Landscape Painters of Holland. 
See Great Artists. 

LANDSEER. See Great Ar- 
tists. 

LANGLEY, S. P., New Astro- 

no7ny, 10s. 6d. 
LANIER, S., Boy's Froissart^ 

7s. 6d. ; King Arthur, 7s. 6d. ; 

2Iahinogion, 7s. 6d. ; Percy, 7s. Gd. 
LAiS^SDKLL, Henry, through 

Siberia, 1 v. 15s. and 10s. 6d. 
Russia in Central Asia, 

2 vols. 42s. 

Tlirough Central Asia^ 12s. 



LARD EN, W., School Course 

on Seat, n. ed. 5s. 
LAURIE, A., Secret of the 

Magian, the Mystery of Echatana, 

illus. 6s. See also Low's Standard 

Books. 
LAWRENCE, Sergeant, Auto- 

liography, 6s. 
andROMNEY. See Great 

Artists. 

LAYARD, Mrs., West Indies, 

2s. 6d. 
LEA, H C, Inquisition, 3 vols. 

42s. 

LEARED, A., Marocco, n. ed. 

16s. 
LEAVITT, Mw World Trage- 

di"s, 7s. f>d. 

LEFFINGWELL, W. B., 

dhooting, 18s. 
 ^ W^ild Fowl Shooting, 

lOs. 6d. 
LEFROY, W., Dean. See 

Preachers. 

LELAND, C. G., Algonquin 

Legends, 8s. 

LEMON, M., Sjuall House over 
the Water, 6s. 



Leo XIII. Life, 18s. 

Leonardo da Vinci. See Great 
Artists. 

Literacy Woi'Jcs, by J. P. 

Eichter, 2 vols. 252s. 

LIEBER, Telegraphic Cipher, 

42s. nett. 
Like unto Christ. See Gentle 

Life Series. 
LITTLE, Arch. J., Yang-tse 

Gorges, n. ed., 10s. 6d. 
Little Masters of Germany. See 

LONGFELLOW, Miles Stan- 

dish, illus. 21s. 
  Maidenhood, with col. pi. 

2s. 6d. ; gilt edges, 3s. 6d. 
Nuremberg, photogr. illu. 

31s. Qd. 

Song of Hiawatha, illust. 



21s. 



LOOMIS, E., Astronomy, n. ed. 

8>\ &d. 
LORNE, Marquis op, Canada 

and Scotland, 7s. 6d. 

Palmerston. See Prime 

Ministers. 

Louis, St. See Bayard 

Series. 
Lo?v's French Readers, edit, by 

C. F. Clifton, I. 3d., II. 3d., III. 

6d. 

 German Series. See 
Goethe, Meissner, Sandars, and 
Schiller. 

London Cliarities, annu- 



ally, Is. Qd. ; sewed. Is. 

Illustrated Germ. Primer, 

Is. 

Infant Primers, I. illus. 



dd. ; II. illus. 6d. and 7d. 

Pocket Encyclopcedia, with 



plates, 3s. 6d. ; roan, 4s. 6d. 

Readers, I., 9d. ; II., 10c?.; 



III., Is. ; IV., Is. 3d. i Y.,l8. id.; 
YI., U 6i. 



In all Departments of Literature. 



17 



hole's Select Parchment Series, 

Aldrich (T. B.) Friar Jerome's 

Beautiful Book, 3s. Qd. 
Lewis (Rev. Gerrard), Ballads of 

the Cid, 2s. 6d. 
Whittier (J. G.) The King's Missive. 

3s. 6d. 

Low^s Stand. Library of Travel 
(except where price is stated), per 
volume, 7s. Qd. 

1 . Butler, Great Lone Land ; also 
3s. Qd. 

2. Wild North Land. 

3. Stanley (H. M.) Coomassie, 



3s 
4. 



Gd. 



How I Found Livingstone ; 
also 3s. Qd. 
5. Throuffli the Dark Con- 
tinent, 1vol. illust., 12s. Qd. j also 
3.9. Qd. 

8. MacGahan (J. A.) Oxus. 

9. Spry, voyage, Challenger. 

10. Burnaby's Asia Minor, 10s. Qd. 

11. Schweinfurth's Heart of Africa, 
2 vols. 15s. ; also 3s. Qd. each.! 

12. Marshall (W.) Through America. 

13. Lansdell (H). Through Siberia, 
10s. Qd. 

14. Coote, South by East, 10s. Qd, 

15. Knight, Cruise of the Falcon^ 
also 3s. Qd. 

(Joseph) Through 



16. Thomson 
Masai Land. 

19. Ashe (E. 
Uganda, 3s, 



P.) 
Qd. 



Two Kings of 



Low's Standard Novels (except 
where price is stated), Qs. 

Baker, John Westacott. 

Black (W.) Craig Royston, 

Daughter of Heth. 

House Boat. 

In Far Lochaber. 

In Silk Attire. 

Kilmeny. 

 Lady Siverdale's Sweet- 
heart. 

New Prince Fortunatus. 

 Penance of John Logan. 

Stand Fast, Craig Royston I 

Sunrise. 

-=-^ Three Feathers. 



Lota's Stand. Novels  continued 

Blackmore (R. D.) Alice Lorraine. 

Christowell. 

Clara Vaughan. 

Cradock No well. 

Cripps the Carrier. 

Ereme, or My Father's Sins. 

Kit and Kitty. 

Lorna Doone. 

Mary Anerley. 

Sir Thomas Upmore. 

Springhaven. 

Bremont, Gentleman Digger. 
Brown (Robert) Jack Abbott's Log. 
Bynner, Agnes Surriage. 

Begum's Daughter. 

Cable (G. W.) Bonaventure, 5s. 
Coleridge (C. R.) English Squire. 
Craddock, Despot of Broomsedge. 
Croker (Mrs. B. M.) Some One Else. 
Cumberland (Stuart) Vasty Deep. 
De Leon, Under the Stars and 

Crescent. 

Edwards (Miss Betham) Half-way. 

Eggleston, Juggernaut. 

French Heiress in her own Chateau. 

Gilliat (E.) Story of the Dragon- 
nades. 

Hardy (A. S.) Passe-rose. 

(Thos.) Far from the Madding. 

Hand of Ethelberta. 

Laodicean. 

Mayor of Casterbridge. 

Pair of Blue Eyes. 

Return of the Native. 

Trumpet-Major. 

Two on a Tower. 

Harkut, Conspirator. 

Hatton (J.) Old House at Sand- 
wich. 

Three Recruits. 

Hoey (Mrs. Cashel) Golden Sorrow. 

Out of Court. 

Stern Chase. 

Howard (Blanche W.) Open Door. 

Ingelow (Jean) Don John, 

John Jerome, 5s. 

Sarah de Berenger. 

Lathrop, Newport, 5s. 

Mao Donald (Geo.) Adela Cathcart. 

 Guild Court. 



i8 



A Select List of Books 



Xow's Sta7id. Novels  continued. 

Mac Donald (Geo.) Mary Marston. 

Orts. 

Stephen Archer, &c. 

The Vicar's Daughter. 

"Weighed, and Wanting. 

Macmaster, Our Pleasant Vices. 

Macquoid (Mrs.) Diane. 

Mnsgrave (Mrs.) Miriam. 

Osborn, Spell of Ashtaroth, 5s. 

Prince Maskiloff. 

Eiddell (Mrs.) Alaric Spenceley. 

Daisies and Buttercups. 

Senior Partner. 

   Struggle for Fame. 

Russell (W. Clark) Betwixt the 
Forelands. 

Frozen Pirate. 

Jack's Courtship. 

  John Holdsworth. 

Little Loo. 

My Watch Below. 

Ocean Free Lance. 

Sailor's Sweetheart, 

Sea Queen. 

' Strange Voyage. 

The Lady Maud. 

Wreck of the Grosvenor. 

Steuart, Kilgroora. 

Stockton (F. E.) Ardis Claverden. 

Bee-man of Orn, 5s. 

Hundredth Man. 

The late Mrs. Null. 

Stoker, Snake's Pass. 

Stowe (Mrs.) Old Town Folk. 

 Poganuc People. 

Thomas, House on the Scar. 

Thomson, XJlu, an African Ro- 
mance. 

Tourgee, Murvale Eastman. 

Tytler (S.) Duchess Frances. 

Vane, From the Dead, 

Wallace (Low.) Ben Hur. 

W^arner, Little Journey in the 
World. 

Woolson (Constance Fenimore) 
Anne. 

East Angles. 

For the Major, 5s. 

Jupiter Lights. 

See also Sea Stories, 



Loto's Stand. Novels, new issue 
at short intervals, 2s. 6d. and 2s. 

Blackmore, Alice Lortaine. 

Christowell. 

Cka-a Vaughan. 

Cripps the Carrier, 

Kit and Kitty. 

Lorna Doone. 

Mary Anerley. 

Tommy Upmore. 

Cable, Bonaventure. 

Croker, Some One Else. 

Cumberland, Vasty Deep. 

De Leon, Under the Stars, 

Edwards, Half-way. 

Hardy, Laodicean. 

Madding Crowd. 

Mayor of Casterbridgo. 

Trumpet- Major, 

Two on a Tower. 

Hatton, Old House at Sandwich. 

Three Recruits. 

Hoey, Golden Sorrow. 

Out of Court. 

Stern Chase. 

Holmes, Guardian Angel. 

Ingelow, John Jerome. 

Sarah de Berenger. 

Mac Donald, Adela Cathcarfc. 

Guild Court. 

Stephen Archer. 

Vicar's Daughter. 

Oliphant, Innocent. 

Riddell, Daisies and Buttercnpg. 

Senior Partner. 

Stockton, Bee-man of Orn, 5s. 

Dusantes. 

Mrs. Leeks and Mrs. Aleshino, 

Stowe, Dred. 

Old Town Folk. 

Poganuc People.' 

Thomson, Ulu. 

Walford, Her Great Idea, &c., 
Stories. 

Low^s German Series, a gradu- 
ated course. See " German." 

LoiD^s Headers. See 
Reader and French Reader 

Loio's Standard Boolcs for Soys, 
with numerous illustrations, 
2s. 6d. each ; gilt edges, 3s. 6d. 



English 



In all Departments of Literature, 



19 



Loxo's Stand. Boohs for Boys  

continued. 
Adventures in Xew Guinea : the 

Narrative of Louis Tregance. 
Biart (Lucien) Adventures of a 

Young Naturalist. 

My Eambles in the New "World. 

Boussenard, Crusoes of Guiana. 
 Gold Seekers, a sequel to the 

above. 
Butler (Col. Sir Wm., K.C.B.) Bed 

Cloud, the Solitary Sioux : a Tale 

of the Great Prairie. 
Cahun (Leon) Adventures of Cap- 
tain Mago. 

Blue Banner. 

Celiere, Startling Exploits of the 

Doctor. 
Chaillu (Paul du) Wild Life under 

the Equator. 
Collingwood (Harry) Under the 

Meteor Flag. 

Voyage of the Aurora, 

Cozzens (S.W.) Marvellous Country. 
Dodge (Mrs.) Hans Brinkerj or, 

The Silver Skates. 
Du Chaillu (Paul) Stories of the 

Gorilla Country. 
Erckmann - Chatrian, Brothers 

Rantzau. 
renn(G.Manville) Off to the Wilds. 
  Silver Canon. 
Groves (Percy) Charmouth Grange; 

a Tale of the 17th Century. 
Heldmann (B.) Mutiny on Board 

the Ship Lea'ivler. 
Henty (G. A.) Cornet of Horse : a 

Tale of Marlborough's Wars. 
Jack Archer J a Tale of the 

Crimea. 
. Winning his Spurs : a Tale of 

the Crusades. 
Johnstone (D. Lawson) Mountain 

Kingdom. 
Kennedy (E. B.) Blacks and Bush- 
rangers in Queensland. 
Kingston (W. H. G.) Ben Burton j 

or, Born and Bred at Sea. 
Captain Mugford ; or, Our 

Salt and Fresh Water Tutors. 

Dick Cheveley. 

 Heir of Kilfinnan. 



Loio^s Stand. Books for Boys  
continued. 

Kingston (W. H. G.) Snowshoes 
and Canoes. 

Two Supercargoes. 

With Axe and Pvifle on the 

Western Prairies. 
Laurie (A.) Conquest of the Moon. 
New York to Brest in Seven 

Hours. 
MacGregor (John) A Thousand 

Miles in the Roh Roy Canoe on 

Rivers and Lakes of Europe. 
Maclean (H. E.) Maid of the Ship 

Golden Age. 
Meunier, Great Hunting Grounds 

of the World. 
Muller, Noble Words and Deeds. 
Perelaer, The Three Deserters ; 

or, Ban Away from the Dutch. 
Reed (Talbot Baines) Sir Ludar : a 

Tale of the Days of the Good 

Queen Bess. 
Eousselet (Louis) Drummer-boy : a 

Story of the Time of Washington. 

King of the Tigers. 

Serpent Charmer. 

Son of the Constable of 

France. 
Russell (W. Clark) Frozen Pirates. 
Stanley, My Kalulu  Prince, King 

and Slave. 
Winder (F. H.) Lost in Africa. 

Loio's Standard Series of Books 
by popular writers, cloth gilt, 
25. ; gilt edges, 2s. 6d. each. 

Alcott (L. M.) A Rose in Bloom. 

An Old- Fashioned Girl. 

Aunt Jo's Scrap Bag. 

Eight Cousins, illust. 

Jack and Jill. 

Jimmy's Cruise. 

Little Men. 

Little Women and LittleWomen 

Wedded. 

Lulu's Library, illust. 

Shawl Straps. 

Silver Pitchers. 

Spinning- Wheel Stories. 

Under the Lilacs, illust. 

 Work and Beginning Again, ill. 



20 



A Select List of Books 



Low's Staiul. Series  continued, 
Alden (W. L.) Jimmy Brown, illust. 

Trying to Find Earope. 

Bunyan (John) Pilgrim's Progress, 

(extra volume), gilt, 2s. 
De Witt (Madame) An Only Sister. 
Pi-ancia (Francis) Eric and Ethel, 

illust. 
Holm (Saxe) Draxy Miller's Dowry. 
Jerdon (Gert.) Keyhole Country, 

illust. 
Robinson (Phil) In My Indian 

Garden. 

Under the Punkah. 

Roe (E. P.) Nature's Serial Story. 
Saintine, Picciola. 
Samuels, Forecastle to Cabin, illust. 
Sandeau (Jules) Seagull Rock. 
Stowe (Mrs.) Dred. 

Ghost in the Mill, &o, 

My Wife and I. 

We and our Neighbours. 

See also Low's Standard Series. 
Tooley (Mrs.) Life of Harriet 

Beecher Stowe. 
Warner (C. Dudley) In the Wilder- 
ness. 

My Summer in a Garden. 

Whitney (Mrs.) A Summer in Leslie 

Goldthwaite's Life. 
   Faith Gartney's Girlhood. 

Hitherto. 

Real Folks. 

The Gayworthys. 

TVe Girls. 

The Other Girls : a Sequel. 

A new illustrated list of hooTcs 

for hoys and girls, with portraits 

of celebrated authors, sent post 

free on application. 

LOWELL, J. R, Among my 
Books, Series I. and II., 7s. 6d. 
each. 

My Study Windows ^ n. ed. 



*** 



Is. 

 -^ Vision 
illus. 63s. 



of Sir Launfal, 



MACDONALD, A., Our Scep- 
tred Isle, 3s. Qd. 
 D., Oceania J 6. 



MACDONALD, Geo., Casile 
Warloclc, a Homely Romance, 3 
vols. 31s. 6d. 

See also Low's Standard 

Novels. 

Sir John A., Life. 

MACDOWALL, Alex. B., 
Curve Pictures of London, Is. 

MACGAHAN, J. A., Oxus, 
7s. 6d. 

MACGOUN, Commercial Cor- 
respondence, 5s. 

MAGGKEGOR, J., Rot Roy in 
the Baltic, n. ed. 3s. 6d. and 2s. 6d. 

Roh Roy Canoe, new edit., 

3s. 6d. and 2s. 6d. 

Yawl Rob Roy, new edit., 

3s. 6d. and 2s. 6d, 

MACKENNA, Brave Men in 



SlE MOEELL, 

of Frederick the 



Action, 10s. 6d. 

MACKENZIE, 

Fatal Illness 
Nolle, 2s. 6d. 

MACKINNON and SHAD- 
BOLT, South African Campaign, 
50s. 

MACLAREN,A. See Preachers. 

MACLEAN, H. E. See Low's 
Standard Books. 

]\IACMASTER. See Low's 
Standard Novels. 

MACMURDO, E., History of 

Portugal, 2ls. ; II. 21s.; III. 21s. 
MAHAN, A. T., Influence of 

Sea Power on History, 18s. 
Maid of Florence, lOs. 6d. 
MAIN, MBS.,High Life, 10s. Sd. 

See also Burnaby, Mrs. 

MALAN, A. N., Cobbler of Cor- 

nikeranium, 5s. 
C. F. DE M., Eric and 

Connie's Cruise, 5s. 
Man's Thoughts. See Gentle 

Life Series. 

MANLEY, J. J., Fish and 

Fishing, 6s, 



In all Departments of Literature, 



21 



MANTEGNA and FRANCIA. 

See Great Artists. 

MARCH, r. A., Comparative 
Anglo-Saxon Grammar, 12s. 

Anglo-Saxon Reader, 



Adm., Naval 



See Foreign 



7s. Qd. 

MARKHAM, 

Career, lis. 

Whaling Cruise, new edit. 

7s. Qd. 

C. R.,Pe77^. 

Countries. 
' Fighting Veres, I85. 

War Between F&ru and 

Chili, 10s. 6d. 

MARSH, G. P., Lectures on 
the English Language, 18s. 

Origin and History of the 

English Language, 18s. 

MARSHALL, W. G., Through 
America, new edit. 7s. Qd. 

MARSTOX, E., How Stanley 
wrote " In Darlcest Africa," Is. 

 See also Amateur Angler, 

Frank's Eanche, and Fresh 
Woods. 

W., Eminent Actors, n. ed. 

6s. 

MARTI:N", J. W., Float Fish- 
ing and Spinning, new edit. 2s. 

Massage. See Nursing Record 
Series. 

MATTHEWS, J. W., Incioadi 

Yami, 1-is. 

MAURY, M. F., Ufe, \2s. 6d. 

^ Physical Geography and 

Meteorology of the Sea, new ed.',6s. 
MEISSNER, A. L., Children's 

Own German Booh (Low's Series), 

Is. 6d. 
 ^ First German Reader 

(Low's Series), Is. 6d. 
Second German Reader 

(Low's Series), Is. 6d. 
MEISSONIER. See 

Artists. 



Great 



MELBOURNE, Lord. See 

Prime Ministers. 
MELIO, G. L., Swedish Drill, 

Is. fid. 

MENDELSSOHN Family, 
1729-1817, Letters and Journals, 
2 vols. 30s. ; new edit. 30s. 

See also Great Musicians. 

l^FERRIFIELD, J., Nautical 

Astronomy, 7s. Qd. 
MERRYLEES, J., Carlsbad, 

7s. Qd. and 9s. 
MESNEY,W., TungJcing,3s. 6d. 
Metal Worlhers* Recipes and 

Processes, by W. T. Brannt, 12s. 6tZ. 
MEUNIER, V. See Low's 

Standard Books. 
Michelangelo. See Great Art- 
ists. 
MILFORD, P. Ned Stafford's 

Experiences, 5s. 
MILL, James. See English 

Philosopliers. 
MILLS, J., Alternative FUemen- 

tary Chemistry, Is. 6d. 
Chemistry Based on the 

Science and Art Syllabus, 2s. Gd. 
Elementary Chemistry, 

answers, 2 vols. Is. each. 
MILTON'S Allegro. See 

Choice Editions. 
MITCHELL, D.G.(Ik. Marvel) 

English Lands, Letters and Kings, 

2 vols. 6s. each. 

Writings, new edit, per 

vol. 5s. 

MITFORD, J., Letters, 3s, 6d. 
Miss, Our Village, illust. 

5s. 
Modern Etchings, 63s. & 3 Is. 6c?. 
MOLLETT, J. W., Dictionary 

of Words in Art and Archceology, 

illust. 15s. 

- Etched Examples, 31s. 6d. 
and 63s. 

See also Great Artists. 



22 



A Select List of Books 



MONCK See English Philo- 

.- so pliers. 
]\rONEY, E., The Truth About 

A-neric(7, 5s. ; new edit. 25. 6d. 
MONKHOUSE. See G. Artists. 
Montaigne's Eesays, revised by 

J. Hain Friswell, 2s. 6cZ. 

See Gentle Life Series. 

MOORE, J. M., New Zealand 

for Emijrant, Invalid, and Tourist, 

OS. 

MORFILL, ^Y. R., Mussia, 

3s. 6d. 
MORLEY, Henry, mglish 

Literature in the Reign of Victoria, 

2s. 6d. 

Five Centuries of English 

Literature, 2s. 
MORSE, E. ^.,JaiDanes3 Homes, 

new edit. 10s. Qd. 

MORTEN, Hospital Life, U. 
MORTIMER, J., Chess Players 

Pockct-Book, new edit. Is, 
MORWOOD,y.S., Our Gipsies, 

18s. 
MOSS, F. J., Great South Sea, 

8s. Gd. 
MOSSMAX, S., Japan, 3s. 6cZ. 
MOTTI, PiETRo, Elementarij 

Russian Grammar, 2s. 6d. 
Buss i an Conversation 

Grarnma/r, os. ; Key, 2s. 

MOULE, H. C. G., Sermons, 

3s. Qd. 
:M0XLEY, West India Sana- 

tormm, and Barbados, 3s. 6cZ. 

MOXOXjW., Pilocereus Senilis, 
3s. Gd. 

MOZART, 2>s. Gr. Musicians. 

MULLER,E. See Low's Stand- 
ard Books. 

MULLIN, J. P., Moulding and 
Pattern Making, 12s. Gd. 

MULREADY, 2>s. Gd, Great 
Artists. 

MURILLO. See Great Artists. 



MUSGRAYE, Mrs. See Low's 
Standard Novels. 

 SavageLondon, n. e. 3s. Qd. 



My Comforter, Sfc, Religious 

Poems, 2s. Gd. 
Napoleon I. See Bayard Series. 
Napoleon /. and Marie Louise, 

Is. Gd. 
NELSOi^, WoLFRED, Panama, 

Gs. 
Nelson' sW or ds and Deeds, 3s. Gd, 
NETHERCOTE, Pytchley 

Hunt, 8s. Qdj. 
New Democracy, Is. 
New Zealand, chromos, by Bar- 
rand, 168?. 
NICHOLSO:^', British Asso- 

ciation Work and ^Vorkers, Is. 
Nineteenth Century, a Monthly 

Review, 2s. Gd. per No. 
NISBET, Hume, Life and 

Nature Studies, Gs. 
NIXOX, Story of the Transvaal, 

12s. Gd. 
Nords7isJcidld' s Voyage, trans. 

21s. 
JN'ORDHOFF, C, California, 

new edit. 12s, Gd. 
NORRIS, Rachel, Nursing 

Notes, 2s, 
NORTH, W., Boman Fever, 

25s. 
Northern Fairy Tales, 5s. 
NORTON, C. L., Florida, 5g. 
NORWAY, G., How Martin 

Drake Found his Father, illus. 5s. 

NUGENT' S French Dictionary, 

new edit. 3s. 
Nuggets of the Goup)h, Ss. 
Nursing Becord Series, text 

books and manuals. Edited by 

Charles F. Rideal. 
1. Lectures to Nurses on Antiseptics 

in Surgery. By E. Stanmore 

Bishop. With coloured plates, 

2s. 



In all Departments of Literature, 



23 



Nursing Record Series  contin. 

2. Nursing Notes. Medical and 
Surgical information. For Hos- 
pital Nurses, fcc. With illustra- 
tions and a glossary of terms. 
By Kachel Norris {nee Williams), 
late Acting Superintendent of 
Royal Victoria Military Hospital 
at Suez, 2s. 

3. Practical Electro-Therapeutics. 
Bj Arthur Harries, M.D., and 
H. Newman Lawrence. With 
photographs and diagrams. Is. Qd. 

4. Massage for Beginners. Simple 
and easy directions for learning 
and remembering the different 
movements. By Lucy Fitch, 
Is. 

O'ERIEN, Fifty Years of Con- 
cession to Ireland, vol. i. 16s. ; 
vol. ii. 16s. 

 Irish Land Question, 2s. 

OGDEN, James, Fly - tying, 

2s. Qd. 
0'GRADY_, Bardic Literature 

of Ireland, Is. 
History of Ireland, vol. i. 

7s. 6d. ; ii. 7s. 6d, 
Old Masters in Photo. 73s. ^d. 
Orient Line Guide, new edit. 

2s. Qd. 
ORLEBAE, Sancta Christina, 

5s. 
Otlier People's Windows. See 

Gentle Life Series. 
OTTE, Denmark and Iceland, 

3s. 6d. Foreign Countries. 
Our Little Ones in Heaven, 5s. 
Out of School at Eton, 2s. 6d. 
OVERBECK. See Great Art- 
ists. 
OWEN, Douglas, Marine In- 

surance, 15s. 
Oxford Days, by a M.A., 2s. 6d. 
PALGEAVE, Chairman's 

Handbook, new edit. 2s. 
Oliver Cromtoell^ lOs. 6cZ. 



PALLISER, China Collector's 
Companion, 5s. 

History of Lace, n. ed. 21s. 

PANTONjJTomes ofTaste,2s.6d. 
PARKE, Fmin Pasha Relief 

Expedition, 21s. 
PARKER, E. H., Chinese Ac- 

count of the Opium War, Is. Qd. 
PARSONS, J., Principles of 

PartnersMp, 31s. 6c7. 
T. p., Marine Insurance^ 

2 vols. 63s. 
V^AGH, A7inaJs of SivainswicTc, 

lOs. Qd. 
Peel. See Prime Ministers. 
PELLESCHI, G., Gran Chaco, 

8s. Qd. 
PENNELL, H. C., Fishing 

Tackle, 2s. 

S]Jorting Fish, 15s, & 30s. 

Penny Postage Jubilee, Is. 
PERRY, Nora, Another Flock 

of Qirls, illus. by Birch & Cope- 
land, 7s. 6d. 
Peru, 3s. ^d. Foreign Countries. 
PHELPS, E. S., Struggle for 

Immortality, 5s. 
Samuel, Life, by W. M. 

Phelps and Forbes-Eobertson, 

12s. 
PHILLIMORE, C. M., Italian 

Literature, new. edit. 3s. Qd. 
PHILLIPPS, W. M., English 

Elegies, 5s. 
PHILLIPS, L. P., Dictionary 

of Biographical Reference, new. 

edit. 25s. 
"W., Latv of Insurance, 2 

vols. 73s. 6d. 
PHILPOT, H. J., Diabetes 

Mellitus, 5s. 

Diet Tables, Is. each. 

Picture Gallery of British Art. 

I. to VI. 18s. each. 
Modern Art, 3 vols. 31s. 6d. 

each. 



24 



A Select List of Books 



PINTO, How I Crossed Africa^ 
2 vols. 425. 

Playtime Library. See Hum- 
phrey and Huntingdon. 

Pleasant History of Reynard the 
FoXy trans, by T. Koscoe, illus. 
7s. 6d. 

POCOCK, E., Oravesend His- 
torian, 5s. 

POE, by E. C. Stedman, 3s. Gd. 

Raven, ill. by G. Dore, 63i>. 

Poems of the Inner Life, bs. 

Poetry of Nature. See Choice 

Editions. 
Poetry of the Anti-Jacobin,7s. Qd. 
and 21s. 

POOLE, Somerset Customs and 

Legends, 5s. 
S. Lane, Egypt, 2>s. 6cZ. 

Foreign Countries. 
POPE, Select Poetical Works, 

(Bernhard Tauolinitz Collection), 

2s. 
POKCHER, A., Juvenile 

French Plays, Is. 
Portraits of Racehorses, 4 vols. 

126s. 
POSSELT, Structure of Fibres, 

63s. 

Textile Design, illust. 28^?. 

POTNTER. See Illustrated 

Text Books. 
Preachers of the Age, 3s. 6(i. ea. 
Living Theology, by His Grace the 

Archbishop of Canterbury. 
The Conquering Christ, by Rer. A. 

Maclaren. 
Verhum Crucis, by the Bishop of 

Derry. 
Ethical Christianity, by H. P. 

Hughes. 
Sermons, by Canon W. J. Knox- 

Little. 
Light and Peace, by H. R. Reynolds. 
Faith and Duty, by A. M. Fairbairn. 
Plain Words on Great Themes, by 

J. 0. Dykes. 
Sermons, by the Bishop of Ripoa. 



Preachers of the Age  continued. 

Sermons, by Rev. C. H. Spurgeon. 

AgonicB Christi, by Dean Lefroy, of 
Norwich. 

Sermons, by H. C. G. Moule, M.A. 

Volumes will follow in quick succes- 
sion by other ivell-Tcnown men. 

Prime Ministers, a series of 
political biographies, edited by 
Stuart J. Reid, 3s. 6d. each. 

1. Earl of Beaconsfield, by J. An- 
thony Froude. 

2. Yisconnt Melbourne, by Henry 
Dunckley (" Verax"). 

3. Sir Robert Peel, by Justin 
McCarthy. 

4. Viscount Palmerston, by the 
Marquis of Lorne. 

5. Earl Russell, by Stuart J. Reid, 

6. Right Hon. W. E. Gladstone, by 
G. W. E.Russell. 

7. Earl of Aberdeen, by Sir Arthur 
Gordon. 

8. Marquis of Salisbury, by H. D. 
Traill. 

9. Earl of Derby, by George Saints- 
bury. 

*^* An edition, limited to 250 copies, 
is issued on hand-made paper, 
medium 8vo, hoxmd in half vellum, 
cloth sides, gilt top. Frice for the 
9 vols. 41. 4.?. nett. 

Prince Maskiloff. See Low's 
Standard Novels. 

Prince of Nursery Playmates, 
new edit. 2s. Qd. 

PRITT, T. K, Country Trout 

Flies, 10s. 6d. 
Reynolds. See Great Artists. 
Purcell. See Great Musicians. 
QUIETER, H., Giotto, Life, 

Sfc. 15s. 
RAMBAUD, History of Russia, 

new edit., 3 vols. 21s. 
RAPHAEL. See Great Artists. 
REDFORD, Sculpture. See 

Illustrated Text-books. 

REDGRAVE, Engl. Painters^ 
10s. ed. and 12, 



I 



tn all Deparlmenls of Literalure. 



25 



EEED, Sir E. J., Modern Ships 
of War, 10s. 6cZ. 

' T. B., Roger Inglefon, 

Minor, 5 s. 
Sir Ludar, See Low's 

Standard Books. 
REID, Matxe, Capt., Stories 

of Strange Adventures, illust. 5s. 
Stuart J. See Prime 

Ministers. 

T. Wemyss, Land of the 



Bey, 10s. 6d. 
RemarJcable Bindings in British 

Museum, 168s,; 94s. 6(Z.j 73s. Qd. 

and 63s. 
REMBRAIS^DT. See Great Art- 

ists. 
Reminiscences of a Boyhood, Qs. 
REMUSAT, Memoirs, Vols. I. 

and II. new ed. 16s. each. 

Select Letters, 1 6s. 

REYNOLDS. See Gr. Artists. 
Henry R., Light ^' Peace, 

Sfc. Sermons, 3s. 6c?. 

RICHARDS, J. W., Alumi- 

nium-, new edit. 21s. 

RICHARDSON", Choice of 

BooTcs, 3.S. Qd. 

RICHTER, J. P., Italian Art, 
42s. 

See also Great Artists. 

RIDDELL. See Low's Stand- 
ard Novels. 

RIDEAL, Women of the Time, 
Us. 

RIFEAULT, Colours for 

Painting, 31s. Gd. 
RIIS, Holu the Other Half 

Lives, 10s. 6d. 
RIPON, Bp. of. See Preachers. 
ROBERTS, Miss, France. See 

Foreisrn Countries. 

W., English Bookselling, 

earlier history, 7s. 6d. 

ROBIDA, A., Toilette, coloured, 
7s. 6d 



ROBINSON,  Romeo " Coates, 
7s. 6d. 

Noah's ArJc, n. ed. 3s. 6d. 

Sinners ^ Saints, 10s. ^d. 

See also Low's Standard 



Series. 



5s. 



Wealth and its Sources, 



S. See Choice 



AY. C, Laio of Patents, 

3 vols. lOos. 
ROCHEFOUCAULD. See 

Bayard Series. 

ROCKSTRO, History of Music, 
new ed. 14s. 

RODRIGUES, Panama Canal, 
5s 

ROE, E. P. See Low's Stand- 
ard Series. 

ROGERS, 
Editions. 

ROLFE, Pompeii, 7s. Gd. 

Romantic Stories of the Legal 
Profession, 7s. 6d. 

ROMNEY. See Great Artists. 

ROOSEVELT, Blanche R. 

'Home Life of Longfellow, Is. Qd. 

ROSE, J., Mechanical Draicing, 
16s. 

Practical Machinist, new 

ed. 12s. Qd. 

Key to Engines, 8s. Qd. 

Modern Steam Engines, 

31s. Qd. 

Steam Boilers, 1 2s. Gd. 

Rose Library. Popular Litera- 
ture of all countries, per vol. \s., 
unless the price is given. 

Alcott (L. M.) Eight Cousins, 2s. ; 
cloth, 3s. Qd. 

Jack and Jill, 2s. ; cloth, 5s. 

Jimmy's cruise in the Pina- 
fore, 2s. ; cloth, 3s. Qd. 

Little Women. 

Little Women Wedded ; Nog. 

4 and 5 in 1 vol. cloth, 3s. Qd. 
Little Men, 2s. j cloth gilt, 

3. Qd. 



26 



A Select List of Books 



Hose Library  continued. 

Alcott (L. M.) Old-fashioned Girls, 

25.; cloth, 3s. 6J. 

Rose ia Bloom, 2s. ; cl. 3s. Qd. 

Silver Pitchers. 

Under the Lilacs, 2s. j cloth, 

3s. 6cL 
Work, A Story of Experience, 

2 vols, in 1, cloth, 3s. 6cL 
Stowe (^Irs.) Pearl of Orr's Island. 

Minister's Wooing. 

We and Our Neighbours, 2s. 

My Wife and I, 2s. 

Dodge (Mrs.) Hans Brinker, or. 

The Silver Skates, Is. j cloth, 5s. ; 

35. 6cZ. ; 2s. 6 L 
Lowell (J. R.) My Study Windows. 
Holmes (Oliver Wendell) Guardian 

Angel, cloth, 2s. 
Warner (C. D.) My Summer in a 

Garden, cloth, 2s. 
Stowe (Mrs.) Dred, 2s. ; cloth gilt, 

3s. Qd. 
Carleton (W.) City Ballads, 2 vols, 

in 1, cloth gilt, 2s. 6c7. 
Legends, 2 vols, in 1, cloth 

gilt, 2s. 6cZ. 
Farm Ballads, Qd. and 9cZ. ; 3 

vols, in 1, cloth gilt, 3s. Qtl. 
Farm Festivals, 3 vols, in 1, 

cloth gilt, 3s. 6cZ. 
Farm Legends, 3 vols, in 1, 

cloth gilt, 3s. 6c7. 
Clients of Dr. Bernagius, 2 vols. 
Howells (W. p.) Undiscovered 

Country. 
Clay (C. M.) Baby Ptue. 

Story of Helen Troy. 

Whitney (Mrs.) Hitherto, 2 vols. 

cloth, 3s. 6c7. 
Fawcett (E.) Gentleman of Leisure. 
Butler, Nothing to Wear. 
ROSS, Mars, Cantab ria, 21s. 
ROSSIXI, &c., See Great 

Mnsicians. 
Rothschilds, by J. Reeves,7s. 6d. 

Roughing it after Gold, by Rux, 
new edit. Is. 

ROUSSELET. See Low's 
Standard Books. 



ROWBOTHAM, F. J., Prairie 
Land, 5s. 

Royal Naval Exhibition, a sou- 
venir, illus. Is. 

RUBENS. See Great Artists. 

RUGGLES, H. J., Shakespeare's 
Method, 7s. 6d. 

RUSSELL, G.W.E.,Gladstone. 
See Pi-ime Ministers. 

W. Clark, Mrs, Dijies' 

Jewels, 2s. Qd. 

Nelson's, Words and Deeds, 



3s. 6d. 

Sailor's Language, illus. 



3s. Qd. 
See also Low's Standard 



Novels and Sea Stories. 

W. Howard, Prince of 



Wales* Tour, illust. 52s. Qd. and 

84s. 
Russia. See Foreign Countries. 
Saints and their Symbols, 3^. Qd. 
SAINTSBURY, G., Earl of 

Derhy. See Prime Ministers. 
SAIXTINE, Picciola, 2s. U. 

and 2s. See Low's Standard 

Series. 
SALISBURY, Lord. See Prime 

Ministers. 

SAMUELS. See Low's Stan- 
dard Series. 
SANDARS,(rer??^a?^ Primer, Is. 
SANDEAU, Seagull Roch, 2s. 

and 2s. Gd. Low's Standard Series. 
SANDLANDS, How to Develop 

Vocal Power, Is. 
SA'UK'R,EuropeanComme7'ce,5s. 
Italian Grammar (Key, 

2s.), 5s. 

Spanish Dialogues, 2s. 6d: 

Spanish Grammar (Key, 

2s.), 5s. 
Spanish Reader, new edit. 

3s. 6d. 
SAUNDERS, J., Jaspar Deane, 

lOs. 6d. 



In all Departments of Literature, 



27 



SCHAACK, M. J., Anarchy, 
16s. 

SCHAUERMANN, Omameiit 

for technical schools, 10s. 6cl. 
SCHERER, Essays in Englisli 

Literature, by G. Saintsbury, Qs. 
SCHERR, JEnglish Literature, 

history, 8s. 6d. 
SCHILLER'S Prosa, selections 

byBuchheim. Low's Series 2.s.6(Z. 
SCHUBERT. See Great Musi- 
cians. 
SCHUMAN:N". See Great 

Musicians. 
SCHWEmFURTH. See Low's 

Standard Library. 
Scientific Educatioii of Dogs, Qs. 
SCOTT, Leader, Renaissance 

of Art in Italy, 31s. 6d. 
 See also Illust. Text-books. 
Sir GiLBEier, Autohio- 

hiography, 18s. 

W. B. See Great Artists. 

SELMA, Robert, Poems, 5s. 
SERGEANT, L. See Foreign 

Conntries. 
Shadow of the Bock, 2s. 6d. 
SHAFTESBURY. SeeEngHsh 

Philosophers. 

SHAKESPEARE, ed. by R. G. 

White, 3 vols. 36s. ; edit, de luxe, 

635. 

Annals ; Life Sf Work, Is. 

Hamlet, 1603, also 1604, 

75. 6i. 
  Hamlet, by Karl Elze, 

12s. Qil. 
' Heroines, by living paint- 

ers, 105s. ; artists' proofs, 630^. 
  Macbeth, with etchings, 

105s. and 52s. 6d. 
Songs and Somiets. See 

Choice Editions. 
Taming oj the Shrew y 

adapted for drawing-room, paper 

wrapper, Is, 



SHEPHERD, British School of 
Painting, 2nd edit. 5s.; 3rd edit, 
sewed. Is. 

SHERIDAiS",i2iy?s, col. plates, 
52s. 6(i. nett; art. pr. 105s. nett. 

SHIELDS, G. 0., Big Game 
of North America, 21s. 

Cruising s in the Cascades^ 

10s. 6cZ. 

SHOCK, W. H., Steam Boilers, 

73s. 6d. 
SIDNEY. See Gentle Life 

Series. 
Silent Hour. See Gentle Life 

Series. 
SIMKIN, Our Armies, plates in 

imitation of water-colour (5 parts 

at Is.), Qs. 
SIMS0:N', Ecua<:lor and the 

Putumavor, 8s. 6d. 
SKOTTOWE, Hanoverian 

Kings, new edit. 3-5. 6d. 

SLOANE, T. 0., HomeExperi^ 

vients Qs. 
SMITH, "HAMILTON, and 

LEGROS' French Dictionary, 2 

vols. 16s., 21s., and 22s. 
SMITH, Edward, Cohhett, 2 

vols. 24:S. 

G., Assyria, 18s. 

Clialdean Account of 

Genesis, new edit, by Sayce, 18s. 
Gerard. See Illustrated 



Text Books. 

T. Roger. See Illustrated 



Text Books. 
Socrates. See Bayard Series. 
SOMERSET, Our Village Life, 

5s. 
Spain. See Foreign Countries. 
SPAYTH, Draught Player, 

new edit. 12s. 6cL 
SPIERS, French Dictionary, 

2 vols. 18s., half bound, 2 vols., 

21s. 
SPRY. See Low's Stand. Library. 



28 



A Select List of Books 



SPURGEON, C. H. See 

Preachers. 
STANLEY, H. M., Congo, 2 

vols. 42s. and 21s. 
In Darkest Africa, 2 vols., 

42s. 

Emin^s Rescue, Is. 

See also Low's Standard 

Library and Low's Standard 

Books. 
START, Exercises in Mensura- 
tion, 8d. 
STEPHENS, F. G., Celebrated 

Flemish and French Pictures, 

with notes, 28s. 

See also Great Artists. 

STERNE. See Bayard Series. 
STERRY, J. AsHBY, Cucumber 

Chronicles, 5s. 

STEUART, J. A., Letters to 

Living Authors, new edit. 2s. 6(2. j 

edit, de hixe, 10s. Qd. 
See also Low's Standard 

Novels. 
STEVENS, J. W., Practical 

Workings of the Leather Manu- 
facture, illust. 18s. 
T., Around the World on 

a Bicycle, over 100 illust. 16s. j 

part II. 16s. 
STEWART, DuGALD, Outlines 

of Moral Philosophy, 3s. 6d. 
STOCKTON, F. R., Castinr/ 

Away of 2Irs. LecTcs, Is. 

The Dusantes, a sequel, Is. 

Merry Chanter, '2 s. 6cZ. 

Personally Conducted, 

illust. by Joseph Pennell, 7s. 6/. 
Budder Grangers Abroad, 



2s. 6(Z. 

Squirrel Inn, illust. 6*. 

Story of Viteau, illust. t)s. 



new edit. 3s. 6(Z. 

Three Burglars, \s. & Is. 

See also Low's Standard 

Novels. 



STORER, F. H., Agriculture, 
2 vols., 25s. 

STOWE, Edwin. See Great 

Artists. 
Mrs., Flowers and Fruit 



from Her Writings, 3s. 6d, 

Life . . . her oion Words 

. . . Letters and Original Composi- 
tion, 15s. 

Life, told for boys and 

girls, by S. A. Tooley, 5s., new 
edit. 2s. Gd. and 2s. 

Little Foxes, cheap edit. 

Is. ; 4s. 6d. 

Minister's Wooing, \s. 

Pearl of Orr's Island, 

3s. Qd. and Is. 
Uncle Tom's Cabin, with 

126 new illust. 2 vols. 18s. 
See also Low's Standard 



Novels andLow's Standard Series, 
STRACIIAN, J., New Guinea, 

12s. 

STRANAHANT, French Paint- 

ing, 21s. 

STRICKLAND, F., Engadine, 

new edit. 5s. 

STUTFIELD, El Maghreb, 
ride through Morocco, 8s. Qd. 

SUMNER, C, Memoir, new 
edit. 2 vols. 36s. 

Sweden and Noncay. See 
Foreign Countries. 

Sylvanus Bedivivus, 10s. i5d. 

SZCZEPANSKI, Technical 
Literature, a directory, 2s. 

TAINE, H. A., Origines, 
I. Ancient Regime, French Revo- 
lution, 3 vols. ; Modern Eegime, 
vol. I. 16s. 

TAYLOR, H., English Consti- 

tution, 18s. 

R. L., Analysis Tables, 1. 

Chemistry, Is. 6d. 

Techno- Chemical Beceipt Book, 
10s. 6(2. 



In all Departments of Literature. 



29 



TENNYSOIT. See Choice 

Editions. 
Ten Years of a Sailor's Life, 

7s. 6d. 
THAUSING, Malt and Beer, 

1B.EAKST0N,BriHsh Angling 

Flies, 5s. 
Thomas a Kempis Birthday - 

Boole, 3s. Qd. 
 Daily Text- Book, 2s. Qd. 

See also Gentle Life Series. 

THOMAS, Bertha, House on 

the bear, Tale of South Devon, 6s. 
THOMSON, Joseph. SeeLow's 

Standard Library and Low's 

Standard Novels. 
"W., Algehra, 6s. ; without 

Answers, 4s. 6cZ. ; Key, Is. 6d. 

THORNTON, W. PuGiN, 

Heads, and what they tell us, Is. 

THOKODSEN, J. P., Lad and 

Lass, 6s. 
TICKNOR, G., Memoir, new 

edit., 2 vols. 21s. 

TILESTON, Mary W., Daily 

Strength, 4s. 6f. 
TINTORETTO. See Great 

TITIAN. See Great Artists. 

TODD, Life, by J. E. Todd, 12s. 

TOURGEE. See Low's Stand- 
ard Novels. 

TOY, C. H., Judaism, lis. 

Tracks in Norway, 2s., n. ed. \s. 

TRAILL. See Prime Ministers. 

Transactions of the Hong Kong 
Medical Society, vol. I. 12s. 6d. 

TROMHOLT, Aurora Borealis, 

2 vols., 30s. 
TUCKER, Eastern Europe, 15s. 
TUCKERMAN, B., English 

Fiction, 8s. Qd. 
' Lafayette, 2 vols. 12s. 
TURNER, J. M. W. See Gr. 

Artists. 



TYSON, Arctic Adventures, 25s. 
TYTLER, Sarah. See Low's 

Standard Novels. 

 M. C, American Liter a- 

t^ire, vols. I. and II. 24s. 
UPTON_, H., Dairy Farming, 

2s. 
Valley Council, by P. Clarke, Qs. 

YANDYCK and HALS. See 

Great Artists, 
VANE, Denzil, Lynn's Court 

Mystery, Is. 
See also Low's Standard 

Novels. 
Vaiie, Young Sir Harry , 18s. 
VELAZQUEZ. See Gr. Artists. 
and MURILLO, by C. B. 

Curtis, with etchings, 31s. Qd. and 

63s. 
VERE, Sir F., Fighting Veres, 

18s. 
VERNE, J., Works hy. See 

page 31. 
Vernet and Delaroche. See 

Great Artists. 

VERSCHUUR, G., At the An^ 

tipodes. Is. Qd. 
VIGNY, Cinq Mars, with 

etchings, 2 vols. 30s. 
VINCENT, F., Through and 

through the Tropics, 10s. 6d. 
Mrs. H., 40,000 Miles 

over Land and Water, 2 vols. 21s. ; 

also 3s. 6d. 
VIOLLET-LE-DUC, Architec- 

ture, 2 vols. 31s. 6d. each. 
WAGNER. See Gr. Musicians. 
WALERY, Our Celebrities, 

vol. II. part i., 30s. 
WALFORD, Mrs. L. B. See 

Low's Standard Novels. 
WALL, Tomhs of the Kings 

of England, 21s. 
WALLACE, L.,BenHur, 2s. 6d, 

Boyhood of Christ, 15s. 

 ' See also Low's Stand.Novs. 



;o 



'A Select List of Books, 



WALLACE, R. , Rural Economy 
of Australia and New Zealand, 
illnst. 21s. nett. 

WALLER, C. H., Names on 
the Gates of Pearl, o$. 6d. 

  Silver Sockets, 6s. 

WALTOJS", Angler, Lea and 
Dove edit, by K. B. Marston, 
with pliotos., 210s. and 105s. 

Wallet-hook, 21s. & 4.2s. 

 T. H., Coal-mining, 25s. 

WARNER, C. D., Their Pil- 
grimage, illust, by C. S. Eeinhard, 
7s. Qd. 

See also Low's Standard 

Novels and Low's Standard Series. 
WARREN, W. F., Paradise 

Found, Cradle of the Human Race, 

illust. 12s. 6d. 
WASHBURNE, Recollections 

{Siege of Paris, ^c.), 2 vols. 36s. 
WATTE AIT. See Great Artists. 
WEBER. See Great Musicians. 
'WEBSTER, SjMin. See Foreign 

Countries and British Colonies. 
WELLINGTON. . See Bayard 

SGriGs. 

WELLS, H. P., Salmon Fisher- 
man, 6s. 

 Fly-rods and Tackle, 
10s. 6d. 

J. W., Brazil, 2 vols. 

32s. 
WENZEL, Cliemiecd Products 

of the German Empire, 25s. 
West Indies. See 

Countries. 

WESTGARTH, Australasian 

Progress, 12s. 
WESTOBY, Postage Stamps; 

a descriptive Catalogue, 6s. 
WHITE, Rhoda E., From In- 

fancy to Womanhood, 10s. 6d. 
R. Grant, England tvith- 

out and within, new ed. 10s. 6d. 
Every -day English^ \0s. 6d. 



Foreign 



WHITE, R. Grant, Studies in 
Shakespeare, 10s. 6d. 

Words and their Uses, 

new edit. 5s. 

W., Our English Homer ^ 

Shakespeare and his Plays, 6s. 

WHITNEY, Mrs. See Low's 

Standard Series. 
WHITTIER, St. Gregory's 

Guest, 5s. 
Text and Verse for Every 

Bay in the Year, selections, Is. 6d, 
WHYTE, Asia to Europe, 12s. 
A\^IKOFF,i^ow?' Civilizations, 6s. 
WILKES, G., Shakespeare, \6s. 
WILKIE. See Great Artists. 
WILLS, Persia as it is, 8s. 6d, 
WILSON, Health for the People, 

7s. 6d. 
WINDER, Lost in Africa. See 

Low's Standard Books. 
WINSOR, J., Columbus, 21s. 
History of America, 8 vols, 

per vol. 30s. and 63s. 
WITTHAUS, Cliemistry, 16s. 
WOOD, Sweden and Norway, 

See Foreign Countries. 
WOLLYS, Vegetable Kingdomy 

5s. 
WOOLSEY, Communism and 

Socialism, 7s. 6d. 
International Law, 6th ed. 

18s. 
Political Science, 2 vols. 

30s. 

WOOLSON, C. Fenimore. 

See Low's Standard Novels. 
WORDSWORTH. See Choice 

Editions. 
TVreck of the " Grosvenor" 6d. 
WRIGHT, H., Friendship of 

God, 6s. 

T., Town of Cowper, 68. 

Wm.(MMY, Algi&rs Illust. 45s, 
Written to Order, 6s. 



BOOKS BY JULES VERNE. 



Lahqe Cfiowy 8to. 



WORKS. 



20,000 Leagues under the Sea. 

Parts I. and II 

Hector Servadac 

The Fur Country 

The Earth to the Moon and a 

Trip round it 

Michael Strogoff 

Dick Sands, the Boy Captain . 
Five Weeks in a Balloon . . . 
Adventures of Three English- 
men and Three Russians . . 
Round the World in Eighty Days 

A Floating City 

The Blockade Runners . . . . 
Dr. Ox's Experiment . . . . 
A Winter amid the Ice . . . 
BurviYors of the "Chancellor". 

Ilartin Paz 

[The Mysterious Island, 3 vols. : 

I. Dropped from the Clouds 

II. Abandoned 

III. Secret of the Island . . 
The Child of the Cavern . . . 
The Begum's Fortune . . . . 
The Tribulations of a Chinaman 
The Steam House, 2 vols.: 
I. Demon of Cawnpore . . 

II. Tigers and Traitors . . . 
The Giant Raft, 2 vols.: 
I. 800 Leagues on the Amazon 

II. The Cryptogram . . . . 

The Green Ray 

Godfrey Morgan 

Keraban the Inflexible:  

I. Captain of the " Guidara " 

II. Scarpante the Spy 
The Archipelago on Fire 
The Yanished Diamond 
Mathias Sandorf . . . 
Lottery Ticket .... 
j The Clipper of the Clouds 
I North against South 
Adrift in the Pacific . 
The Flight to France . 
The Purchase of the North Pole 
A, Family without a Name 
Cesar Cascabel 



Containing 350 to 600 pp 

and from 50 to 100 
full-pag e illn strationa. 

Plainer 

binding, 

plain 

ed^es. 



Handsome 
cloth bind- 
ing, gilt 



s. d. 

10 6 

10 6 

10 6 

10 6 

10 6 

10 6 

7 6 

7 6 

7 6 

7 6 



7 6 



22 

7 

n 
I 

7 
7 
7 

7 



7 6 

7 6 

7 6 

7 6 

5 
7 6 

7 6 

7 6 

7 6 

7 6 

10 6 

7 6 

7 6 

7 6 

6 

7 6 
6 
6 
6 



s. d. 
5 



3 6 
3 6 



3 6 

10 6 
3 6 



3 6 

3 6 

3 6 

3 6 

3 6 

3 6 



Containing the whole of the 
text with some illustrations. 



Cloth 

binding, gilt 

edges, 

smaller 

type. 



s. d. 
3 6 

3 6 
3 6 

(2yols., 

(. 2s. ea. 

3 6 

3 6 

2 

2 

2 
(20 
[20 

2 

2 
(36 
(20 

6 

2 

2 

2 

2 

2 

2 



2 

2 

2 

2 

2 

2 








3 6 
2 
2 



Limp clotli. 



s. d, 
2 



2 

2 
2vola., 

l5. ea 

2 

2 

1 

1 



:] 



1 
1 
1 
1 
1 

(20 

I 1 
3 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 



1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 



2Tol3l each 



Gelbbeated Teavels akd Teaveilees. 3 ^ols. Syo, 600 pp., 100 full-page illustrations, 7. 6d., 
p:.t edges, 9. each: (1) The ExpLOEATiOir of thb Woeld. (2) The Geeat Navisatom o xhi 

ElGHTBKlfXH CsjTTyET, (3) Thb GbBAX ExpLOBEBS 01 XHB NlITEIBBITTH CbJTXXTBX. 



PERIODICAL PUBLICATIONS 

OF 

Sampson Xow, fIDaraton a Company?, X5 



SCRIBNER'S MAGAZINE. 

A Superb Illustrated Monthly. Price One Shilling. 

Containing Contributions from the pens of many well-known Authors, 

among whom may be mentioned Thomas Bailey Aldrich, Sir Edwin 

Arnold, Andrew Lang, Sarah Orme Jewett, H. M. Stanley, Robert Louis 

Sterenson, E. H. Stoddard, Frank R. Stockton. 

THE NINETEENTH CENTURY. 

A MONTHLY REVIEW. Edited by JAMES KNOWLES. 

Price Half- a -Crown. 

Amongst the contributors the following representative names may be 
mentioned :  Lord Tennyson, the Right Hon. W. E. Gladstone, Cardinal 
Manning, Mr. J. A. Froude, Mr. Ruskin, Mr. G. A.^ Watts, R.A., Earl 
Grey, the Earl of Derby, Lord Acton, Mr. Herbert Spencer, Mr. Frederick 
Harrison, Mr. Algernon C. Swinburne, Mr. Leslie Stephen, Professor 
Huxley, Sir Theodore Martin, Sir Edward Hatnley, Professor Goldwiu 
Smith, and Sir Samuel Baker. 

THE PUBLISHERS' CIRCULAR, 

AND 

BOOKSELLERS' RECORD OF BRITISH & FOREIGN LITERATURE. 
WEEKLY. Every Saturday. Price Three-Halfpence. 

SUBSCRIPTION. 

Inland Twelve Months (post free) 8s. Gd. 

Countries in the Postal Union ... ,, ,, ,, lis. Od. 

THE FISHING GAZETTE. 

H Journal tor Buglers^ 

Edited by R. B. MARSTON, Hon. Treas. of the Fly Fishers' Club. 

Published Weekly, price 2d. Subscription, 10s. 6d. per annum. 

The Gazette contains every week Twenty folio pages of Original Articles 
on Angling of e7ery kind. The paper has recently been much enlarged 

and improved. 

" Under the editorship of Mr. R. B. Marston the Qazette has attained a high stand- 
ing."  Daily New. " An excellent paper."  The World. 



London: SAMPSON LOW, MARSTON & COMPANY, Limited, 
St. Dunstan's Housi, Fettbr Lanb, Fleet Street, E.G. 



BOSTON PUBLIC LIBRARY 

Illllllllll , 

3 9999 05987 722 3 



Boston Public Library 
Central Library, Copley Square 

Division of 
Reference and Research Services 



The Date Due Card in the pocket indi- 
cates the date on or before which this 
book should be returned to the Library. 

Please do not remove cards from this 
pocket. 



Ol JUL 27 



a 



'^Z9' 



ni ^-4- j^_^ 



KiStr ^^ 



S-MN 28 



B.NOV 24 



SyMAY 24 




^# 




^i^itna o ic 





/ 



A<u*,(^ssi()iis 




Sholt' No. 






-'"^Ai 



"^fftiT^typ^Prt^nnJ^ 



V, 



y 







m 



A 



LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 



LETTERS 



TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 



BY 



MARIE HANSEN-TAYLOR 

(MRS. BAYARD TAYLOR) 



"And true philosophers, methinks, 

Who love all sorts of natural beauties, 
Should love good victuals and good drinks." 

Thackeray 



NEW YORK 

CHARLES SCRIBNER'S SONS 

1892 



n.H. 



COPYRIGHT, 1892, BY 
CHARLES SCRIBNER'S SONS. 



DEDICATED 

TO 

iJHg Qauj5f)tet 
LILIAN BAYARD TAYLOR KILIANI 



CONTENTS 



LETTER I 

PAGE 

Introductory  How to choose meat  Meat must be kept until fit 
for use  Length of time necessary for keeping meat  Impor- 
tance of the kitchen fire I 

LETTER II 

What Liebig did for the advance of cookery  On the subject of 
economy  About marketing  Food is needed to counteract 
the daily waste of the human body   The chemistry of food  
The daily rations necessary  Nutritive value of food-materials  
C. Voit's estimate of a full ration  We eat too much meat 6 

LETTER III 

How to boil meat and make soup  How to make a broth preserving 
all the nutrients of meat  Recipe for ordinary soup-liquor  How 
to make a good soup, and save the meat for use  Liebig's way of 
using his meat extract for soup  Amber-colored broth  Occa- 
sional additions to soup 14 

LETTER IV 

About soup in general  Rumford soup  Soups divided into three 
classes  Soups made of cereals  Accessories to soups 20 

LETTER V 

Vegetable soups  Water soups  Soups of meat puree  Sweetbread 

and calfs brains soup  Two ancient recipes 30 

vii 



Vin CONTENTS 

LETTER VI 

PAGE 

About salting food  The qualities of pure salt  Salt assists diges- 
tion  Salt will raise the temperature of boiling water  The use, 
value, and abuse of spices  Buy spices and herbs whole  How 
to preserve herbs  How to keep lemon and orange peels  
Grades of nourishment in meats, and their different food-values  
The juices of meat must be kept intact  How to broil a beef- 
steak, showing the principle of the art of cooking meat  How to 
roast beef  How to stew or braise meat  Recipe  Time required 
for roasting other kinds of meat  Respective value of different 
cuts of beef  Filet of beef h la Jardiniere  What to do with 
remnants of beef  Beef en inatelote 40 

LETTER Vn 

Waste material in food-matters, and loss of weight in cooking  Recipe 
for duck a la Portugaise  About veal  Recipes  About mutton 

 Recipes 49 

LETTER Vni 

General remarks about pork  Roast pork with Cumberland sauce 

 Other recipes  About ham  A mustard and a horseradish 
sauce, both cold  How to boil ham and beef tongue, and what to 
do with the remnants  About poultry and how to buy  How to 
cook chickens and game  Other recipes  How to fry parsley  
W^hat to do with remnants of poultry  Stewed turkey  Devilled 
drumsticks  Duck  Pigeons  Stuffings for poultry 59 

LETTER IX 

The usefulness of rago-Ats  Some recipes  How to make sauces 

 Recipes for sauces  Ragoiit in pastry shell ; in ring of crou- 
tons ; in rice-ring  Three cold sauces 69 

LETTER X 

Difference between frying and saut'emg  How to fry  How to make 
croquettes  Recipe of a batter  About gelatine, and the nutri- 
tive value of gelatinous substances  What these substances are 

 The uses of meat-jelly  Recipes  Meat jellies for invalids.. 76 



CONTENTS IX 



LETTER XI 

PAGB 

About rice, and how to cook it  The pilaff  Various recipes for it  
Risotto  Recipes for baked rice  About macaroni, and how to 
boil it  Recipes 84 



LETTER XII 

Recipe for stufato a Pltalienne with macaroni  Other recipes for 
macaroni  About mushrooms, and how to cook them  About 
truffles 91 



LETTER XIII 

The value of vegetables in nutrition  About potatoes  How to boil, 
steam, and bake them  Mashed potatoes  Various recipes 98 



LETTER XIV 

Food-values of vegetables  Green peas  A dish of mixed vegetables 
 String-beans  Lima beans  Kohlrabi  Spinach  Sorrell  
Cauliflower  Asparagus  Brussels sprouts  Cabbage  Savoy 
cabbage  Red cabbage 106 



LETTER XV 

Carrots  Turnips  Salsify  Celery root  Parsnips  Root-vegeta- 
bles mixed  Beets  Sweet potatoes  Corn  Egg-plant  Squash 
 Tomatoes  Onions  Chestnuts  Macedoine of vegetables. . . 1 18 



LETTER XVI 

Food-values of fish  How to cook fish  Court-bouillon for boiling 
fish  Striped bass  Sauce hollandaise for fish  Two recipes for 
pike  Cod and haddock  ^Mustard sauce for fish  Salmon  
Parsley sauce  Sauce genoise  Sauce reinoulade  Flounder 
a la Joiiiville  How to broil fish  Fish steak sattte&di.  Mack- 
erel  Bloaters  How to use remnants of fish  Bouille-abaisse 
 Matelote  Fish in jelly 128 



CONTENTS 



LETTER XVn 

PAGE 

Cured cod, and how to treat it  Codfish balls  Oysters, and the 
different ways of cooking them  Oyster sauce  How to cook 
clams  Clam chowder  How to boil a lobster  Various recipes 
for lobster  Lobster sauce  Lobster butter  Frogs' legs 139 



LETTER XVIII 

General remarks about salads  How to prepare lettuce, and to make 
a French dressing  About dressing herb salads  More substan- 
tial salad dressings  Three different mayonnaise dressings  
Combinations in salads  How to pickle beets  Cabbage salads 

 Rules to follow for salads of boiled vegetables  An excellent 
combination salad, and how to treat cucumbers 147 

LETTER XIX 

Various ways of making potato salad  A Portuguese salad  Italian 
salad  An appetizer  Venetian fish salad  Salmon salad  
Lobster salad  Salad of boiled vegetables  Salad a la A'ostiz  
A Dumas salad  Chicken salad  Other meat salads  Tomato 
salads 157 

LETTER XX 

Food-value of eggs  Ways of cooking eggs, and how to do it  
How to m.ake omelets  Stirred eggs  Roman y;-//^:/^  Pan- 
cakes  Pancakes filled with meat  Fai'cied eggs  About cheese 

 Some recipes 164 

LETTER XXI 

Valuation of food-matters for light desserts  The most economical 
dessert  Sweet pancakes  Desserts served in cups  Recipe for 
Mount Blanc  Snow crhne  Raspberry foam  Rodgrod  
Whipped cream; how to make it, and its uses  Russian c7-eme  
Chocolate bavaroise  How to use gelatine  Russian rice  
Macedoine of fruit  Apple pudding  White of egg pudding 

 Custard pudding  Lemon purlding  Rice pudding  Wine 
sauce  Fruit sauces  Claret sauce 1 73 



CONTEN'l^ XI 



LETTER XXII 

PAGE 

Rules for baking cake  German drop cakes  Israel cake  Jenny 
Lind cake  Lightning cake  Sponge cake  Sand cake  Choc- 
olate cake  Vienna cake  Two nice cake fillings  Cake icings 
and ornamenting  Small cakes  Chocolate tarts  Portuguese 
drop cakes  Sugar wafers  IMacaroons  Filet de vent  Kisses 
 Meringues  Boiuhees  Candied fruit and orange peel 182 



LETTER XXIII 

Rules for putting up stores of preserves  Sour cherries and black- 
hearts put up air-tight  Jam of raspberries and blackberries  
Raspberry sirup  Jellies of raspberries, blackberries, and currants 

 How to put up peaches  Brandy peaches  Quinces  Two 
kinds of pickled cucumbers  Pickled cabbage  Sweet pickles  
Tomato catsup  Tarragon vinegar 192 

LETTER XXIV 

Suggestions for an evening entertainment  Pickled oysters  Sand- 
wiches, and how to make them  Three recipes for mixed butter 

 Salted alm.onds  Tea punch  Cardinal punch  Snow punch 

 Ambrosia  Almond milk  Four menus for luncheons  Four 
menus for dinners 20I 

INDEX 211 



LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

LETTER I 

'L'utile, pour moi, c'est le beau. 

 Charles Jobey. 

SO you are going to begin housekeeping? And as I prom- 
ised you a friend's advice whenever this event should 
occur, I am ready to keep my promise. With the 

. , -r , 1 J r Introductory. 

exception that I have the advantage over you of 
being older, and therefore, of course, so much the wiser, our 
cases are almost parallel. We have not been raised in luxury ; 
we both have married worthy men, who have to use their 
brains and energy to provide for bread and butter, and, since 
our natures '' cry for it," a great deal more in addition. Your 
husband like mine furnishes the means for a modest but com- 
fortable living, and you and I are bound in return to see that 
the waste of force and brain-power he is obliged to undergo is 
day by day restored, and his vitality kept unimpaired by those 
chemicals of which our mortal frame is made up, and which 
we call food. 

Now do not think that what you have undertaken is mere 
play. It is, on the contrary, a tolerably severe task  and a 
great pleasure at the same time when you see that your efforts 
are succeeding. 

Do you believe that a morning's work can be done comfort- 
ably on a gruel breakfast ? Do you think a stomach would not 
rebel against a continued diet of roast beef and chops ? If you 
wish your husband to be nervously debilitated by and by, dis- 
heartened and the reverse of cheerful, give him breakfasts with- 



J LETTERS TO A VOUXG HOUSEKEEPER 

out substance and dinners without variety. Be they cooked as 
well as you please, that will not tend to mend matters in the long 
run. 

Your task being not easy, I am going to be a severe teacher. 
I require of you, my pupil, from the start that, being a house- 
keeper, you devote each day some of your best thinking to 
the bill of fare and the meals to be served. I do not think it 
waste of time. Try it, and you will feel satisfied with the 
result. With all that science and experience contribute nowa- 
days, cooking is more of an art than ever, for an art it has 
been considered ever since people became civihzed. Nor is 
it a peculiarly feminine occupation. There have been male 
cooks always,  some of them famous, as we know,  and there 
are not a few among men of genius and distinction who have 
given more or less attention to culinary accomplishments. In 
Plato's opinion it brought no dishonor to a philosopher in case 
of necessity to cook his own meal ; and Baronius, a cardinal 
and learned theologian of the Middle Ages, took pride in the 
preparation of meals, writing over his mantelpiece with his 
own hand: '' Cssar Baronius, permanent cook." Richelieu, 
also, and Mazarin, his successor, looked closely into the details 
of their cuisines. Rousseau was an expert in cooking eggs in 
various styles, while Lamartine, the poet, was taught by his 
tutor, the Abbe Dumont, to cook a plain dinner. Our own 
countryman, Rumford, who was made a count in Germany, 
invented the soup which is called by his name, benefiting 
thereby the poorer classes of the people. And who has not 
heard of the amiable and refined Brillat-Savarin ? You must 
acknowledge, my friend, that we have a galaxy of renowed ex- 
amples before us, whom to follow we need not be ashamed. 
But, if an art, cooking is also a study, and my advice would be 
to make it a study first and an art afterward. This implies that 
you are not to take what I say, or what the cook-books (a whole 
host of them) tell you, according to the letter, but that you will 
have to catch the spirit of it all, and do as it directs. In this 
way  the intelligent way  you will become the inventor, the 
true artist, the benefactor. 



LETTER I 3 

This is my first injunction : To provide for your meals buy 
the best of materials ; it is the cheapest, because it goes 
furthest in nourishing. This is especially true of the most 
important of all food, meat ; inasmuch as the flesh of all 
the higher animals furnishing food contains nearly all the sub- 
stances of which the human frame is made up. For this reason 
you must know how to distinguish between good and bad meat. 
In giving you the requisite indications I follow Dr. Wiel, whose 
" Diaetetisches Kochbuch " has been my teacher in many 
respects : i, Meat when of a pale red color shows How to choose 
that the animal had been ailing ; 2, when of a '^^^*- 
deep purple that it died (was not slaughtered) ; 3, when 
healthy and well-fed the color is of a dark pink ingrained with 
white, which is fat ; 4, the fat of a healthy animal is of a pure 
white, and hard ; 5, the fat of a sickly one is of a yellowish white, 
and soft and watery to the touch. It follows that you have 
to do your own marketing yourself. 

The two principal ingredients of the meat are the muscular 
fibre and the juice. In the latter is contained the albumen, 
which is of so much value in restoring us from day to day. 
The fibre, however, determines the relative nutritive properties 
of the meat. In this respect well-fed beef is highest in rank. 
And of the beef again it is the loin and sirloin which are the most 
nutritious parts as well as the easiest to digest. The poorest 
pieces are the flank, neck, and shank. Their nutritive value is 
about ten times less than that of the loin, sirloin, rib piece, 
and rump. The remaining parts are inferior to the latter and 
superior to the former ; they are of more or less relative value ; 
in the hands of an intelligent cook, however, the least nutritive 
piece even may be turned into good and palatable food. You 
must learn that even the best piece of meat is not fit for roast- 
ing or stewinsf unless it has been kept for some 

 r 11  r^  ' ^ Meat must be 

time alter slaughtermg. lo give it the necessary kept tin fit for 
tenderness it has to pass through a certain pro- 
cess, which in reality is the first degree of decomposition. In 
this way an acid  the lactic acid  is developed, which tends 
to soften the fibre othenvise tough. This process, however, 



4 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

can take place only with meat kept at a temperature above 
freezing-point. If meat is frozen it has to be thawed gradually 
and then put to use at once, or it will soon be beyond the 
proper stage of ferment. The time necessary for the right 
sort of decomposition to set in is longer or shorter according 
to the different kinds of meat and the seasons. In summer 
_ ,. beef is ready for use in one or two days, while in 

The Time neces- _ - ^ ' 

sary for keeping wiutcr it takcs about a week. Veal and lamb 
take two days in summer, and four to six in 
winter ; mutton, one to two in summer, and three to six in 
winter ; venison, four in summer, and ten to twelve in winter ; 
poultry, one to two days in summer, and four days at least in 
winter ; game, from one to twelve days. If at any time you 
should be obliged to use a piece of meat while it is still too 
fresh, you may remedy the case by pouring over it some 
boiling hot vinegar, then wiping it dry with a clean towel 
before putting it into your pan. 

This leads me to the kitchen fire, the importance of which is 
so little appreciated by our kitchen maids. The best of mate- 
importance of rial is apt to be spoiled and made tasteless by 
the kitchen f.re. eithej- ^-qq hot or too slow a fire. A well-regu- 
lated fire is absolutely necessary in preparing good and nutri- 
tious food. It ought to be made a special study by each house- 
keeper, who, in turn, ought to instruct her servant. It is a 
known fact that water, after getting to the boiling point  /. e, 
showing an agitated surface  does not increase in temperature. 
As soon as this point is reached a slackening fire will do the 
same service as a lively one. The lesson to be derived from 
this is one of economy. The importance of the right sort of 
fire in preparing different kinds of food was known in ancient 
times. Some curious works have come down to us written 
by Greek cooks of old. One of them says : " You must 
see to the strong, the medium, and the slow fire according 
to the dishes you wish to prepare " ; and then he adds : 
" Nor is he the genuine cook who handles the pan, swings 
the ladle or the meat-knife, or who serves up a dehcacy ; 
but he it is who knows to keep the right measure, and 



LETTER I O 

gives the necessary temperature to each dish of food he 
cooks." 

Well, we have made a beginning of what we have to learn. 
We will proceed step by step, until we reach the top of the 
ladder, only to find that there is no end to the pursuit of knowl- 
edge  even in the matter of cooking. 



LETTER II 

Je crois qu'il est trfes bon de reveler aux hommes 
Les secrets de se bien nourrir. 

 Charles Jobey. 

YOU never had the benefit of a cooking-school? Neither 
had I. By-the-bye, I found out the other day that cooldng- 
schools are by no means a modern institution ; for during the 
reign of Louis XIV. of France Madame de Sabl^ distinguished 
herself among the court ladies  all dabbling in cookery  by 
establishing a cooking-school, where the Duke of Larochefou- 
cauld was counted one of her best pupils. 

I was going to say that although our cooking-schools are ex- 
cellent, and are doing a great deal of good, a woman of common 
intelligence and good sense may never come near one, and yet 
become a good cook and housekeeper by the grace of her own 
ingenuity. Necessity and love of home combining, she will 
soon make herself acquainted with the first rudiments of cook- 
ing, and then her own experiences will teach her more and more. 
It is astonishing how many cook-books have been published of 
every size and kind. Still, many as there are, new and old, 
I think there is room for more of them ; for cooking is gradually 
passing into a new phase by the help of modern chemistry. It 
. , . ,. , was Liebig who first called public attention to the 

What Liebig did ^ . Z . , . , . 

for the advance chcmical proccss performed m every kitchen for 
coo ery. ^^^ purposc of rcstoriug the daily waste of the 

human body ; who taught us in his " Chemische Briefe " how to 
roast meat, and why the piece of meat which has furnished us 
with a good broth is devoid of nutriment. Others have followed 
him, and intelligent housekeepers are beginning to see that they 
have to study in order to become adequate providers for their 
families. In my opinion the cook-books of the future will have 
6 



LETTER II 



to take cognizance of the practical side of chemistry as demon- 
strated by modern scholars. 

I touched on the subject of economy in my last in speaking 
of the kitchen fire, and now mean to impress upon on the subject 
your mind that in this word "economy," when of economy, 
coupled with intelligence, you have the key to the secret how 
to have a better table with restricted means tjaan many a 
family paying large sums for no end of provisions.  In the first 
place, it is absolutely wrong to be wasteful, and in the second 
place it is not ladylike to be so. This may comfort you when 
your servant, as ignorant persons are apt to do, will confound 
in her mind meanness with economy. Do not allow yourself to 
be troubled in the least by such a doubt on her part, for it is a 
matter of false pride to be influenced thus as long as you know 
better. Nor will you be able to carry out the principle of 
economy without making your servant your assistant. You will 
have to teach her imperatively that you will allow no waste of 
any kind  that no particle of food is to be thrown some ways of 
away without your orders. Food, if left over, be it economizmg. 
ever so small in quantity, is to be put on clean platters, and set 
away for your inspection next day. In this way, for instance, I 
have often made of little remnants of different kinds of cooked 
food the most palatable of soups. Bones left over, cooked or 
not, ought to be cracked, and added to the contents of the soup- 
kettle. The superfluous fat of a roast is better trimmed off 
when raw, and prepared for future use by cutting it in squares, 
and rendering or " trying it out." Have the clean drippings 
poured through a fine sieve into a bowl, and set away in a cool 
place. The fat left after the meat has been served may be ap- 
propriated to the same purpose, but it is inferior in quality. 
The drippings of different kinds of meat are better kept sepa- 
rate. Mutton drippings are only fit to use when fresh. If 
cooked up with a slice of onion, they are delicious to fry pota-^ 
toes -with. The fat taken from a chicken and rendered is nearly 
as good as butter for cooking purposes. 

I want also to call your attention to the bread-box. Pieces 
will accumulate in it, and may be used up in different ways  the 



8 LETIERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

nice pieces for various dishes, of which later ; the odds and ends 

to dry in the oven, and roll into crumbs for breading chops, etc. 
Parsley, celery leaves and stalks, pieces of raw carrot left 

over, may be dried, and kept  each separate  for future use. 
These are merely hints on which to enlarge for yourself 
In marketing, look out for the best material. I said before 

that it is the cheapest, because it contains the most nutriment ; 
therefore, it ffoes the furthest to satisfy the appetite. 

About marketing. ' ^ , i , ,, i , i 

When you buy you should well calculate your needs 
as to quantity. When brought home, all articles not for imme- 
diate use should be taken care of at once and stored in proper 
places. The next thing is to use your marketing in such a way 
as to make the most of it. Even the best materials will be in- 
sufficient to nourish if not put to their proper uses. To attain 
this, each article of food has to be prepared in such a way as 
to preserve intact the nutriments contained in it as much as 
The way to pre- possiblc, and carc has also to be taken to bring 
pare food. q^|- j|-g particular flavor ; this makes food palatable 

and favors digestion. Too much heat will dry up the juiciest 
of meat. The wrong kind of spice, or too much of it, will kill 
the delicate flavor of animal or vegetable food, and rob it of its 
wholesome nature. 

Nor is it a matter of indifference v/hat kind of food you pro- 
vide, and in what way you combine the difl'erent kinds. There 
^ J . _, _, is a certain amount of waste soius, on in our 

Food IS needed . '-' ^ 

to counteract bodlcs day by day, which must be replaced by the 

the daily waste . i  i i i i i  i 

of the human samc clcmcnts which have been spent, and which 
^'^^' are contained in the foods provided by nature. 

These elements, and the manner in which they are distributed 
in our foods, are a matter for you to study, in order to become 
the judicious provider for your family. 

There are two classes of nutrients which concern us mostly, 
(i) The plastic materials, so called because they build up and 
The chemistry repair the organs of the human body, and renew 
of food. the life-giving blood. (2) The heat and breath 

producing materials  the fuel by which the human machine is 
kept going. Of the former the chief element is nitrogen, 



LETTER II 



9 



which is furnished by the albumen in animal substances, by 
the gluten in cereals, and legumin in vegetables ; by casein in 
milk, etc. They are classed by the name of albuminoids, or 
protein. The second class consist chiefly of carbon and 
hydrogen, and are summed up as carbohydrates. They are 
contained in sugar, starch, dextrin, alcohol, water, and in the 
fats of animals and vegetables. The fats, however, are often 
classed by themselves, and further on, in giving you the daily 
rations of food as set down by the latest investigations, you 
will find special mention made of them. 

There is still another and equally important class of ele- 
ments  anorganic substances  such as sulphur, lime, phos- 
phorus, potassium, calcium, sodium chloride (common salt), 
iron and other minerals, which enter into the composition of 
our blood and bones. Either one of these three (or four) 
classes of nutrients without the others will fail to nourish man 
or beast. But it is the first and second class which principally 
concern us, the fats being contained and distributed among the 
animal and vegetable food-materials in such a way as to need 
but small attention, while the anorganic and mineral substances 
are to be found so wisely mixed with the albuminoids and 
carbohydrates that we may let them take care of themselves. 

Most scholars agree that for every part of albuminoids there 
must be four parts of carbohydrates in our daily food. Next 
we have to know how much of either of these jhe rations 
food-elements is necessary to nourish human necessary daily, 
beings each day. The following is now generally accepted as 
being the daily rations on an average for persons of different 
sex and ages :  





Albuminoids. 


Fats. 


Carbohydrates. 


For children up to li years . 
For children from 6-15 years 

For a man 

For a woman 

For an aged man .... 
For an aged woman . . . 


Ounces. 
0.7 to 1.3 
2.5 to 2.9 

4.2 

3-3 

3-5 

2.9 


Ounces. 

I to 1.6 

1.2 to 1.9 

2 

I-S 
2.4 

1-9 


Ounces. 

2.3 to 3.3 
8.6 to 14.4 

17.6 

14.4 

12.5 
9-3 



10 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

This is meant for persons who work but moderately. A per- 
son of leisure would need less albuminoids ; a laboring man or 
woman would need more. Besides, there have to be consid- 
ered the condition of health, the calling and temperament of 
the persons in question, as well as the climate and the seasons. 
It follows that a table may be loaded with luxurious dishes and 
delicacies, and yet fail to nourish properly those feasting on 
them. Unless they are so chosen as to yield in their combi- 
nation the right proportion of the nutrients required to repair 
the daily wastes of the human body, they will do harm instead 
of good. 

You might say, " How comes it, then, that mankind is still 
in existence, since the science of the kitchen was unknown 
heretofore ? " It is, indeed, a fact to be wondered at when we 
consider the barbarities practised in the way of feeding and 
cooking even to the present day. There are two things, how- 
ever, in favor of man : one is the toughness of his frame, 
which seems to be able to stand a good deal of abuse ; the 
other is that mysterious guide called instinct, which led people 
from the start to find out what is good for them and what not. 
But instinct, somehow, seems to beat its retreat when civili- 
zation advances triumphantly, and neither you nor I would fare 
well or be satisfied to rely always on that sort of leadership, 
when science is holding up her torch-light to show us the 
"how" and "why." Just think of all the persons we know, 
young and old, ailing of no one knows what  of mysterious 
troubles called anaemia, dyspepsia, liver complaint, etc. ! 
Who knows but that such persons are either half-starved or 
over-fed, for which ailments no physician can aid them ? 

I would advise you to study this subject earnestly. There 
is many a spare hour in which to do it. And it pays. There 
are books to teach you  books which treat of the kitchen as a 
laboratory for preparing the chemical compounds necessary to 
preserve and foster life, but which so far, I am afraid, have not 
found many readers among our sex. Meanwhile the hints I 
give you may help a little to pave the way. 

The following will furnish you with a rough estimate of the 



LETTER II  11 

nutritive values we have in our principal food-materials as to 
nitrogen (albuminoids) and carbon (carbohydrates). 

These values may be divided into three different classes : 
First, food in which nitrogen and carbon are combined  the 
class to be rated as the hidiest ; second, food 

 r 1 Nutritive values 

which contams chiefly nitrogen, and therefore has in food-mate- 
to be complemented by articles of the third class ; 
third, food which chiefly consists of carbon, and has to be 
complemented by food of the second class. Here follows a 
list to choose from according to the above values :  

Food of the first class : Fat meat ; beef-tea made without 
heat ; milk ; fat oysters ; all unbolted flour, and gruel and 
bread made thereof; dried beans, peas and lentils; cabbages, 
especially cauliflower ; kale, spinach, lettuce, string beans, and 
green peas ; onions and leeks ; mushrooms ; tea, coffee, and 
chocolate. 

Food of the second class : Lean meat ; eggs ; fresh fish ; 
lean oysters and clams ; cured fish, especially cod, herring, 
salmon, and sardines ; cheese made of milk. 

Food of the third class : Salt pork, very fat ; wheat bread ; 
wheat flour, corn meal ; sugar ; rice, sago, barley, farina, corn- 
starch ; macaroni, vermicelli ; potatoes, sweet potatoes, turnips, 
carrots, parsnips ; fruit ; fermented beverages. 

Your task is to select from these three classes of food your 
materials and combine them in such a way as to give you, as 
nearly as possible, the correct proportions of albuminoids and 
carbohydrates demanded to supply the daily rations for the 
persons you have to provide for. In doing so, however, you 
have to bear in mind that what you buy is not food consisting 
of pure albuminoids and carbohydrates, but materials more or 
less mixed with refuse, like the bones and sinews of meat ; and 
that in addition you have the mineral matters and the water, 
all of which tell in wei2:ht. C. Voit, the ereat 
physiologist of ]\Iunich, says that a full-grown mate of a fuii 
person to get his full ration of albuminoids needs 
at least 8.2 ounces of meat a day, of which there are bones 
about 0.6 ounce, fat 0.7 ounce, and pure muscle 6.9 ounces. 



12 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

He adds that the latter may be replaced by poultry, or fish, 
and also either entirely or in part by cheese, and dishes 
prepared with milk or milk and egg. 

I follow him also in stating that of the whole amount of food 
not more than one-third ought to consist of animal matters  
the other two-thirds having to be made up from vegetable 
produce. A purely vegetable diet would require a considerably 
larger amount of albuminoids than is given in the table of daily 
rations, because the digestive properties of the nitrogen of 
vegetable food are from one-fourth to one-third less than 
those of the same substance in animal food. 

It remains for me to give you an idea of the percentages of 
the different nutrients in the food-materials with which we have 
to work. But I prefer to do this as I go along, mentioning 
their proportionate values when I come to deal separately with 
the cooking materials and the preparing of them. 

I may remark here that on the whole we eat too much meat. 
We would fare better if we relied for our animal food more 
We eat too much o^ the products of the dairies. This cannot be 
'^^^^' preached enough to persons of moderate means, 

inasmuch as the dairies furnish us with a larger quantity of 
nutrients for the same money than meat does. Although your 
circumstances and mine are not so much restricted as to 
impose on us real privations, it is comfortable to know that, 
in reducing our butcher's bill and favoring the dairyman, we 
get a pleasant substitute for the same amount of nourishment, 
and at the same time are practising the virtue of economy. 
This method, moreover, helps us to a greater variety in our 
meals ; and variety of necessity promotes the appetite and aids 
digestion. You might succeed in putting on your table each 
day the exact amount of albuminoids combined with the right 
proportion of carbohydrates, and fail at the same time to satisfy 
the appetite of the consumer. Food, after being eaten, has to 
be assimilated  taken up by the system in such a way as to 
serve its purpose ; and to attain this effect in many cases the 
eye needs to be tempted as well as the stomach. Both easily 
tire if the same things are continually set before them. And 



LETTER n IS 

there is the palate also, which is as severe a critic as you would 
wish to have. Therefore, you must have variety in your daily 
fare ; it must look well ; it must taste well ; in short, your food 
must be cooked and serv^ed in the best possible way. 

The cooking of it is what concerns us most at present. I am 
ready to step into the kitchen with you in my next. 



LETTER III 

L'appetit vient en mangeant. 

FIRST of all you wish to know how to boil meat, and make 
the most of it for soup. Suppose you have bought a piece 
of meat for this purpose, and want to get from it as good a 
broth as possible. What we do first is to cleanse 

How to boil  Ti' 1 1 1 1   rr  1 1 1 

meat and it. U C do SO by TUbbUlg it Oil With SL CieSUl tOWCl. 

soup. j^ splinters of bone, sand, etc., have to be re- 

moved, we scrape it with a clean but dull knife. In extreme 
cases it may be rinsed quickly with water ; but be sure never 
to immerse your meat. If you do, the surface of it will be 
robbed of its best juices. These we want as much as possible 
to preserve for our broth. To this end we take a soup-kettle 
with a tight-fitting lid, which we fill with cold water, and in this 
water we put the meat, adding a little salt. In allowing the 
water to get hot gradually the blood with the albumen and the 
mineral matters are extracted from the meat and imparted to 
the water. As soon as the latter reaches the boihng point the 
kettle has to be removed to a place where it will merely " smile " 
as the French term it ; which means, of course, that it must 
simmer or boil gently. After a while we see a brown scum 
rising ; this is the albumen, which coagulates in the boiling 
water and thus is lost as a nutrient. Consequently, meat or 
soup broth is not of great nutritive value. It is merely a stim- 
ulant on account of the so-called " extractives " in it, of which 
gelatine (or glue) is also a part, and, as such, important in the 
process of nutrition. The gelatine in the broth is the result of 
continued boihng, and proceeds from the tendons, bones, and 
gristle, or what is called the connective tissue of the meat. 
These extractives give the aroma to the broth. 



LETTER III 15 

The scum, or albumen, when coming to the surface, has to 
be removed by a skimmer in order to get a clear broth. To 
leave it in would make the soup unsightly, and besides albu- 
men, when coagulated, is not easily digested. The meat which 
remains after all the good is drawn out is worthless, and if 
eaten will not be digested, even by a healthy stomach. Since 
this meat is refuse, I advise cutting it into small pieces before 
putting it in the soup-kettle, adding the bones separately. In 
this way there is no doubt of the meat yielding in the course 
of several hours all it contains. I must not forget to mention 
that for broth  but only for broth  meat freshly ^ 

^ -'To make soup, 

butchered is the best. And, now, before pro- get meat freshly 
ceeding to tell you when to add the vegetables, 
which are to increase the flavor of the soup-liquor, and the 
proportions, I will stop and give you the recipe for making a 
broth which preserves all the nutrients of the meat and for 
cases of debility, sickness, or convalescence is invaluable. It 
is made without fuel of any kind. 

Take three ounces of freshly butchered meat of the best sort, 
without fat or sinew (either beef or fowl) ; chop it fine, put it 
in a china bowl, and cover it with water which 
has been boiled and become cold (or better, dis- broth^prl^erllng 
tilled water from the drusrsjist's), until one inch aii^henutn- 

^^ ^/ ents of meat. 

above the meat. Then add a pinch of salt, and 
five to six drops of muriatic acid ; stir well this mixture by 
means of a small glass spoon ; cover up the bowl and let it re- 
main in a cool place for three to four hours. At the end of 
that time strain the liquid, which has a pale red color, through 
a hair sieve ; pour over the meat some more of the water, 
while pressing it down with a wooden ladle, until it gets 
entirely discolored and you have liquor sufficient to fill a 
large teacup quite full. This is enough for one portion. Two 
such cups are the most a person ought to take during one day. 
It is in liquid form the same as the meat itself. 

I return now to the ordinary soup-liquor, and will sum up 
the whole for you thus :  

Take of lean meat freshly butchered one pound, of bones 



16 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

one pound ; cut the meat in large dice ; crack the bones ; put 
o . , all in a soup-kettle holding a little over three 

Recipe for . 

the ordinary Quarts ; fill up with cold Water nearly full ; add 

SOUp-liquor. r ^ r ^ tt i i ii   

one saltspoontul of salt. Heat slowly, allowing it 
to simmer or boil gently ; skim off the scum that rises. After 
one hour add two more saltspoonfuls of salt, and continue boil- 
ing until the liquor is clear. Then add your vegetables : a small 
carrot or a piece of a large one, a parsley root, the half of a 
celery root (the turnip-rooted), one or two of the large celery 
leaves, one small leek (it is more delicate than onion), half a 
turnip. Allow it to boil one hour longer, or until the vege- 
tables are done, when strain through a fine sieve; allow the fat 
to settle on top, and skim it off with care. 

Some housekeepers are in favor of making their soup-liquor 
the day before it is to be used, in order to remove the fat more 
readily. Except for economy's sake, or to save time, I prefer 
to cook it the same day I want to use it, because in reheating 
the broth some of its flavor is certainly lost. With clean sheets 
of blotting paper the remaining traces of the soup-grease are 
easily and thoroughly removed. The brown paper of the gro- 
cers will also do it. 

See that your soup-kettle is always tightly covered, lest the 
aroma of your soup escape with the steam. I will add, for the 
benefit of your economical propensities, that the soup-vegeta- 
bles, by not being overdone, may be put to some further use. 
They have given, to be sure, their best properties to the broth, 
but in exchange they have taken to themselves the broth which 
has entered their cells. 

For the benefit of the German middle classes, who make 
a meal of their soup, in which the meat and a vegetable 
are boiled. Dr. Wiel, in his " Diaetetisches Kochbuch," gives a 
recipe for "a better piece of meat, and yet a good soup." 
The sum of what he says is this :  

Divide your meat into two portions, one containing all the 
sinewy parts, and the bones with the meat next to them, while 
the other must be a piece of solid meat. Chop the meat of 
the first portion, split the bones, and pour cold water over it. 



LETTER III 17 

For one pound of meat take three quarts of water, which will 
give you about one quart of good strong broth 
in the end. After putting in sufficient salt, some go^o'd soup.^and 
muriatic acid (from the druggist's) must be added, fo^'ugg^ "^^^^ 
For one pound of meat about six drops, no 
more. Allow to stand in a cold place for a couple of hours ; 
during this time the water will extract all the strength of the 
meat. Then heat it gradually, and when it comes to a boil, 
and not before, put in the second portion of solid meat, after 
tying it up tight with strong twine. By this process less of the 
surface of the meat is exposed, and the boiling water produces 
an impenetrable crust by coagulation, thus preventing the loss 
of the nutritive juices. Allow the whole to boil gently until 
the meat is tender. Put your vegetables in after the broth has 
been skimmed. 

It is well to know this recipe for economical purposes. A 
piece of meat boiled in this way makes a good dish for break- 
fast, either as a hash, a stew, or in the shape of croquettes. It 
may also serve to help out on the kitchen table. For econ- 
omy's sake also, I would advise you (since we want a soup to 
begin dinner with) not to buy soup-meat oftener than twice a 
week. If a first-class broth is not needed do not exhaust the 
whole of your soup-meat and bones. Drain off the liquor 
wanted for the day, refill the kettle with water, adding such 
scraps of meat, cooked or raw, as have been left over or cannot 
be used in other ways ; add bones also if you have them. 
Always crack the latter. Add some more salt and cook up. 
Let stand over until next day when fresh vegetables can be put 
in after it has come to a boil. I have often made a third edi- 
tion by adding Liebig's meat extract. This you may always 
do if your broth is not of sufficiently good quality. Only be 
sure not to take too much of it. IMeat extract  containing 
all the extractives, but not the albumen of the meat  is a stim- 
ulant rather than a nutritive, and as such is fulfilling an impor- 
tant part in the process of nutrition. As a stimulant, however, 
it is powerful enough to affect the heart if taken in too large 
a quantity. A heaped teaspoonful is sufficient for a quart 



18 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

of soup ; or, take a lump the size of a dried bean for a 
plateful. 

This may be the proper time to make you acquainted with 
the way Liebig himself had the meat extract used in his own 
household, instead of broth made of fresh meat :  

Take two quarts of cold water ; put in it either half a pound 
of cracked marrow-bones or one ounce of beef suet, and such 
vegetables as are handy ; boil until the latter are 
liifrS'g^h^s'^meat douc, which takcs about one hour. Now strain 
mll^? ^sou ^^^ liquid, and add half an ounce good weight of 

meat extract, and the necessary salt. This is 
soup-hquor sufficient for seven persons. 

The flavor of broth can be improved or varied by taking dif- 
ferent kinds of meat at the same time ; as, for instance, adding 
a slice of ham to veal, or a piece of liver to beef. If amber- 
Amber-coiored colorcd broth is Wanted the vegetables may be 
^'^^- sliced thin and fried brown with a very little butter 

before being added to the liquor in the soup-kettle. Fat meat 
is not the proper kind for the soup-pot. An old chicken 
makes an excellent soup of delicate flavor. Venison, game, 
and pigeons make as nourishing a soup as can be. In Catholic 
countries a good soup is made of various fish. But even water 
soups can be made exceedingly palatable. A good way to im- 
prove both the taste and nutritive value of soup, is to add one 
or more eggs. In doing so care has to be taken to prevent 
curdling. Beat up the egg thoroughly with a tablespoonful of 
either water, milk, or cream ; add slowly a ladleful of the hot 
soup after removing it from the fire, stirring all the while. 
Then add this to the soup, stirring also ; or, better, pour it into 
the soup-tureen, and add the soup to it while stirring. In 
using the whole egg we have the benefit of the white, which 
being largely albumen increases the nutritive value of the soup ; 
but in using the yolk merely, a velvety smoothness of the soup 
is attained, which is marred by the white of the egg. There- 
fore, you may choose between the two as you judge best. 
Whenever I take the yolk and not the white, I am in the habit 
of saving the latter, and using it with another egg, or with 



LETTER III 19 

two, for croquettes, pancakes, etc. When I have as many as 
three or four whites, I use them for makmg a dehcate white- 
of-egg pudding  of which hereafter. 

A small remnant of a vegetable dish added to a soup  it 
must harmonize, to be sure, with the rest  is a good thing 
often ; but the best vegetable to add is tomato, occasional addi- 
which never spoils a rice, macaroni, vermicelli, ^'"^ ^ ^^p- 
or vegetable soup. Another very nice addition is "roses" of 
cauliflower, or bits of asparagus boiled until just done in the soup 
itself. In this way they impart their flavor and best properties 
to the soup ; which is not so much the case if boiled by them- 
selves in salt water, unless the w^ater is added to the soup with 
them. Certain soups are also improved by some minced pars- 
ley, which had better be put into the tureen just before the 
soup is poured in, or it might lose its aromatic property. In 
the south of Germany they add cives cut very fine ; but this is 
a matter of individual taste. Bread is often added too. Cut 
some of your stale pieces into either small dice or thin well- 
shaped slices ; have ready a hot frying-pan ; put in a very small 
bit of butter, or pork drippings (chicken fat is very good), and 
after it is done hissing put in your bread, tossing or stirring it 
frequently, until of a rich yellow or brown on all sides ; keep 
hot and dry, and either add to the soup-tureen the last moment, 
or have it served and handed around separately. 

I might go on indefinitely to theorize in this fashion about 
soups, and teach you the "composing " of them without giving 
you a single recipe. I will, however, stop short, and give you 
some detailed samples in my next. 



LETTER IV 

Je vis de bonne soupe et non de beau langage.  Moliere. 

THE soup is, according to Brillat-Savarin, our philosopher of 
the kitchen, " la premiere consolation de I'estomac besoi- 
gneux"  the prime comfort of the eager stomach. The French, 
About soup Germans, and Italians have it on their table every 

in general. ^^y ^q begin dinner with. As for their poor it is 

often all they have for their mid-day meal. The middle classes 
are apt to make their soup the nucleus of their dinner by 
adding the rest of the meal to the soup-pot and serving it on 
separate dishes. In the south of Germany soup is eaten at 
dinner and at supper by many a family of the upper classes  
a custom which seems to be very old elsewhere, if we are to 
judge from a French proverb dating centuries back, which 
says :  

Without his soup at eve and morn 

Is my good Christian all forlorn. ^ 

I said before that soup-liquor is more of a stimulant than 
a nutrient. It is owing to the substances you add that, as 
soup, it becomes more or less nourishing. The following ex- 
ample will demonstrate to you how nourishing it can be made 
by study. The recipe is called 

Rumford Soup from its inventor, and is composed on the 
principle of getting what is necessary to nourish in the cheapest 
way. It was for his merit in bettering the condition of the 
poorer classes that Benjamin Thompson, an American, was 
made Count Rumford by the Prince-Elector of Bavaria in the 

1 " Soupe le soir, soupe le matin, 
C'est I'ordinaire du bon chretien." 
20 



LETTER IV 21 

beginning of the centur}\ Being a scholar in national economy 
he found out by means of chemical researches how to obtain 
nourishment at lowest cost. It is by the Rumford Soup that he 
is now chiefly remembered. There are several versions of this 
soup. I have tried the following, and found it not only satisfy- 
ing to the appetite but also palatable. 

Soak three cups of dried peas over night ; put them to cook 
with plenty of cold water ; when they come to a boil add three- 
quarters of a pound of fresh pork, one cup of Recipe for 
barley, and the necessary salt. Now get ready R^'^^o''^ Soup. 
four large potatoes; peel, wash, and slice them, and add them 
to the above about half an hour before meal-time. Allow at 
least three hours for peas and barley to get pulpy and for the 
pork to get done. Add boihng water if necessary to thin the 
soup, but it ought to be rather thick. When done remove the 
pork, cut it in dice and set it away in the covered tureen in a 
warm place. Pour the soup in a colander and strain, rubbing 
it through with a potato-masher. Heat up again the strained 
soup, add some minced parsley to the pork in the tureen and 
serve your soup over it. 

Now let us see what nutrients we have in this recipe. The 
following table will show it :  

Albuminoids. Fats. Carbohydrates. 

Peas 23 percent. 2 percent. 52 percent. 

Barley 7.5 per cent, i percent. 76 percent. 

Potatoes 2 per cent. o per cent. 20.7 per cent. 

Fat pork (bones excepted) . . 14.5 per cent. 37.5 per cent. o per cent. 

Total 47 per cent. 40.5 per cent. 148.7 per cent. 

In adding the fat to the carbohydrates you will find that the 
total is pretty nearly as one to four, which is the proportion 
necessary to give proper nourishment and keep the system in 
a healthy condition. 

Since charity is a virtue to be practised in every household, 
you will remember this recipe when a poor man or woman, or 
whole family, is to be fed. Only see that they get enough of 
the ingredients to make up as near as possible the ration each 
person needs every day. I would advise to put this soup on 



22 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

your own table now and then when you happen to have but a 
slender steak to follow, or perhaps a dish made of some rem- 
nant of the day before  some croquettes, or a stew and no 
roast. For, mind you, we please ourselves (our husbands in- 
cluded) in this, that we do not ape the wealthy in a profusion 
of meats and courses, which would soon exhaust our funds and 
the capabilities of our husbands to furnish them. We are of 
one opinion in this, as you have assured me, that a simple meal, 
as long as it supplies the needful nourishment, is a comfort all 
around, if only prepared with care and served "with grace," 
as Brillat-Savarin ordains for the pheasant. It saves both time 
and labor. It promotes health and cheerfulness. 

To be able to select the soup best suited for the day it is 
well to consider our subject under three different heads : 
So-jps divided soups made of preparations of cereals, those 
into three classes, j^ade of Vegetables, and those made from animal 
substances. Fish soups, although properly included in the 
latter class, I will leave out for the present. 

For the first kind of soups we have chiefly wheat flour, farina, 
barley, sago, rice, vermicelli. These are rich in starch, which 
belongs to the carbohydrates, as you know, and take rank in 
this way :  

Albuminoids. Fats. Carbohydrates. 

\\Tieat flour lo per cent l per cent. 75.2 per cent. 

Farina 10 per cent. i per cent, 75.2 per cent. 

Vermicelli 9 per cent. 0.5 per cent. 76.5 per cent. 

Rice 8 percent. i percent. 76.5 per cent. 

Barley 7.5 per cent. i percent. 76 percent. 

Of the vegetables as nutrients there is not much to say, their 
value as such ranking rather low, with the exception of dried 
peas, beans, and lentils. These three are valuable, as the fol- 
lowing shows :  

ALBUMiNoros. Fats. CARnoimjRATES. 

Peas 23 per cent. 2 per cent. 52 per cent. 

Beans 23 per cent 2 per cent 53.3 per cent 

Lentils 25.5 per cent. 2 per cent 54 per cent 

But valuable as they are, they require good digestive capacity, 
and therefore may be kept in reser\^e, while preference is given 



LETTER IV 23 

to the more delicate although less nutritious vegetables for 
soups. 

The third kind of soups  those consisting of animal sub- 
stances  are the most nourishing if made of chopped meat, 
such as beef, venison, chicken, pigeon, game, sweetbread, calf s 
brain, etc. 

Of each of these three kinds of soups you may borrow for 
the other two. You can add, for instance, vegetables to the 
cereal products ; or animal matter to a vegetable soup ; or you 
may mix ingredients belonging to all three classes of soups. 
Only take care that each substance is in harmony with the 
other, and that the whole is agreeable to the eye as well as to 
the taste. 

To begin with the starchy matters, it is a safe rule to take a 
tablespoonful for each person of either farina, barley, rice, etc. 
They are added to the boiling liquor while stirring s^^jps ^^^^ 
to prevent the forming of lumps. Boil gently, o^ "reals. 
As to time, farina takes about fifteen minutes to get done ; 
sago, about five minutes, or until clear ; barley, from one to 
two hours to get properly cooked. Rice takes about half an 
hour in soup. It has to be washed and scalded beforehand. 
Vermicelli, according to thickness, takes from five to forty 
minutes to get done. 

I will remark here that I always mean my recipes for three 
persons, unless diiferently stated. I begin with some plain 
soup :  

Farina Soup.  Take the finest wheat farina, measure off 
your quantity (a tablespoonful for each person) ; stir gradually 
into your boihng liquor (about half a pint for a person) ; cover 
up, and let boil for fifteen minutes, stirring the soup every now 
and then with a spoon. Have the yolk of one egg beaten up 
with a tablespoonful of cream (or milk) ; add this at the last 
moment, proceeding as told before.^ Salt to taste. This soup 
ought to be of a creamy smoothness. 

Flour Soup No. i.  Mix two tablespoonfuls of flour with a 

1 See p. i8. 



24 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

little cold water, and stir until quite smooth ; add to it gradu- 
ally, and stirring all the while, one and a half pints of boiling 
broth ; flavor with a little lemon peel, which remove before 
serving ; put on to boil for ten minutes ; then add butter the 
size of a walnut and the yolk of an egg beaten up with some 
cream or milk. Salt to taste ; add a sprinkle of grated nutmeg. 
Flour Soup No. 2.  Take butter, one and a half ounces 
(or size of small egg) ; melt, and stir into it two tablespoonfuls 
of flour. When bubbling up add little by little one and a half 
pints of broth, stirring until quite smooth ; add one teaspoonful 
of minced parsley and one egg beaten up in two tablespoonfuls 
of thick cream. Salt to taste. 

To this soup as well as to those following you can make ad- 
ditions of cauliflower, green peas, asparagus, if they happen to 
be handy, or whatever else you see fit. Remember also the 
proportions mentioned before and apply them to the following 
recipe. This is of French origin :  

Velvety Soup (Po/age Veloute) .  Take pearl sago (the 
best), stir it into your boiling broth, and cook until clear; add 
one yolk for each person (two will do for three persons), beat 
it up with cream. Salt to taste. 

Omelet Soup.  Alake a pancake batter of one egg, milk, 
flour, a little salt, and a sprinkle of either minced parsley or 
cives, which bake thin and not too brown in a buttered frying- 
pan ; when done, put on a bread-board and cut into very nar- 
row strips ; put into the soup-tureen, and serve over them a 
clear broth. 

If you have mutton for the foundation of your soup, rice or 
barley will be best to use. Take rather more than usual of the 
soup vegetables for this broth, especially celer}^ root and leaves ; 
also a clove, a bay leaf, and a few pepper seeds. 

Barley Soup No. i.  Take pearl barley; stir into boiling 
water  nearly one pint to three tablespoonfuls  to which 
add a small piece of butter, a little salt, and turnip-rooted 
celery cut into small dice ; cook gently (covered up) for about 
two hours, seeing that the barley gradually takes up all the water, 
but do not let it get dry. When done add your broth to it ; let 



LETTER IV 25 

come to a boil, and serve over one or two eggs beaten up 
with cream or milk. 

Barley Soup No. 2.  Take the coarse-grained barley ; do 
as before, leaving out the celery root. x^fter the barley is 
about half done add the meat-liquor, and finish cooking it 
until quite soft. Rub through a wire sieve, add egg and 
cream, and serve over crisply fried bread, or little bread balls, 
of which later. 

All these soups may be served without the egg, if the broth 
is a first-rate one. 

Rice-flour Soup.  Take one ounce of rice flour (two table- 
spoonfuls) ; stir until smooth in one gill of cold soup-liquor ; 
add to it one and a half pints of the boiling liquor, and cook 
for ten minutes, stirring all the while. Add now two or three 
tablespoonfuls of cream (hot), a sprinkle of white pepper 
or nutmeg, and salt to taste. After poured into the tureen 
put on top of the soup some custard, which is made in the 
following way :  

Custard for Soups.  Take two whole eggs and one yolk; 
beat well with one gill of cold soup-liquor (water will do), a 
pinch of salt, and a dash of grated nutmeg ; pour into an 
earthen bowl or mug, place into a cooking-vessel with hot 
water, and allow it to be heated until the eggs have set, and no 
longer. Take out a spoonful at a time ; or turn out the cus- 
tard and cut it into small, equally long strips by means of a 
fluted knife. 

This custard may be added to other soups, especially when 
clear and made of vegetables. 

The above recipe for rice-flour soup is a German one. I 
have an English recipe which is the same, but leaves out the 
custard, flavors the soup with a saltspoonful of curry-powder, 
and a squeeze of lemon. 

A very good and showy soup is the following :  

Soup with Moulded Rice.  Have a first-rate beef broth, 
amber-colored and clear. Take of rice, well washed and 
scalded, six ounces ; of butter, three ounces ; put into one 
quart of boiling broth, which may be of inferior quality (water 



26 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

will do also) ; see that the liquid is salted exactly right ; boil 
covered up for half an hour ; then set uncovered in a hot place 
until all the liquid left is evaporated, when you empty the rice 
into a deep mould. Press it down to have it take the shape of 
the mould. Set it in a moderately warm place for a while, and 
when ready to serve turn the rice out of the mould on a hot 
plate. Dust all over it some grated Parmesan cheese. Or 
have the cheese handed around separately, and pour over the 
rice some melted crayfish butter, garnishing its base or not with 
either shrimps, crayfish tails, buttonhole mushrooms, or forcemeat 
balls, or with all of these. Have the rice handed around with 
each plate of broth from the tureen. It is rice enough for six 
persons. 

The scarlet-colored butter made of crayfish or sweet water 
crab, comes handy in tiny tin boxes. Although an expensive 
article, a small quantity will go very far both to color and to 
flavor ; and put away in a cool place this butter will keep, after 
the box has been opened, for weeks. The crayfish tails are 
also imported, ready for use, in small glass jars. 

I will give you only one more recipe of this kind of soups,  
a vermicelli soup, to which we gave the name :  

Potage aux Voyageurs (Travellers* Soup).^  Take either 
chicken or veal broth ; cook vermicelli in it, of the thick 
kind, until soft, but not so that it falls to pieces. When done 
beat up one or more yolks of egg in half a cupful of cream ; 
add to the soup with a squeeze of lemon juice, and serve 
with grated Parmesan cheese. If you take a tablespoonful of 
sour instead of sweet cream, you will not need the lemon 
juice. 

Before I proceed I will make you acquainted with some 
accessories to soups, which are apt to improve especially the 
Accessories Vegetable soups, and often are the most nutri- 

to soups. tJQ^jg p^j-i-g Qf them. 

Since you will need bread for nearly all of the following 
recipes, I remind you that to be economical every piece and 

1 See Bayard Taylor's " Travels in Greece," p. 218. 



LETTER IV 27 

chip of bread has to be saved, and kept for future use in a 
clean jar or box. The slices can be cut into any shape required, 
whilst the odds and ends after accumulation are to be put on 
the back of the stove or range to get perfectly dry, which makes 
them fit to be rolled into fine crumbs, by means of the rolling- 
pin. They ought to be kept in a covered glass or porcelain 
jar until needed. Just now we want some thick slices of stale 
bread to add  let us say  to a green pea soup. 

Golden Dice.  Cut bread into large dice ; beat up one egg 
in a few tablespoonfuls of milk, to which add a bit of salt ; soak 
the bread in it for half an hour, then fry it until of a fine yellow 
in hot lard. Skim out of the lard on a piece of brown paper 
placed on a colander. 

Cheese Crusts (^croutons).  Cut some thin slices of bread 
into round or oval shaped pieces ; dip the upper side into 
melted butter, and cover thickly with grated Parmesan or 
Swiss cheese ; place these pieces on a sheet iron baking-pan 
or a pie-dish, and put into the oven until of a deep yellow. 
They are handed with the soup. 

I was present at a dinner where the croutons were dry-toasted 
on the under side, while on top the bread was spread with fresh 
butter covered with grated cheese. They were handed with a 
Julienne soup. 

Next we have forcemeat and bread balls. The latter are the 
easiest made, and the more economical additions to soups as 
well as to fricassees, etc. 

Bread Balls.  Take two ounces of butter, and melt it ; add 
four to five tablespoonfuls of fine bread-crumbs, a saltspoonful 
of salt, a Uttle nutmeg or pepper; mix, then add one whole 
egg and one yolk ; mix again, and stir until smooth and light. 
Form little balls the size of hickory nuts, and drop them either 
into boiling water salted or the boiling soup. Cover up, and 
allow to boil from ten to fifteen minutes. 

It is always best to try one ball first by cooking it before the 
rest. If it cooks to pieces some more bread-crumbs, if too hard 
a tablespoonful of cream (sour is the best), has to be added. 
This rule holds good with all the recipes for balls and dumplings. 



28 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

Sponge Balls.  Take the whites of two eggs and put them 
into a teacup ; fill it up with milk, and pour the contents into 
a stew-pan ; add one teacupful of flour and one ounce of 
butter (or size of an egg) ; stir well over the fire until the 
batter is thick and smooth ; set it to cool, after which stir into 
it the two yolks, a few pinches of salt, a pinch of mace (if 
liked), and drop into the boiling soup a teaspoonful at a time. 
Cook from eight to ten minutes. 

Marrow Balls.  Take two ounces of beef suet ; soak in 
water for one hour to whiten it ; chop fine ; melt it over the 
fire, and strain into a large bowl. When nearly cooled off stir 
it with a spoon until creamy ; drop into it the yolk of an egg 
and, after stirring a while, a whole egg, half a saltspoonful of 
salt, half a teaspoonful of minced onion, and one teaspoonful 
of minced parsley ; at the last add three tablespoonfuls of fine 
bread-crumbs. Form into balls as big as a walnut by means of 
two spoons, which dip into boiling water every now and then. 
Place the balls one beside the other on a flat pie-dish which has 
been buttered previously. When ready to put them into the 
boiling water, or soup, heat the dish. The balls wifl drop easily 
into the cooking-vessel. Boil gently for about ten to fifteen 
minutes. 

Forcemeat Balls.  Take half a pound of raw veal (or 
chicken) ; mince very fine ; soak two ounces of bread (no 
crust) in milk ; when soft put it in a clean towel and squeeze 
until dry ; add two ounces of butter and the yolks of two eggs, 
pound the whole in a mortar, and force through a fine sieve ; 
season with salt, white pepper, and nutmeg, and form into 
almond-shaped bafls by taking a teaspoonful of it, heaped full, at 
a time, shaping it at the top into a point, and smoothing it 
down by means of a knife dipped in water. Cook about ten 
minutes in soup-liquor. 

Ham Dumplings.  Proceed as above, taking raw ham in- 
stead of veal, and season with either minced onion or parsley, 
instead of nutmeg, leaving out the salt. Do not take the 
trouble to force it through a sieve, but stir until smooth and 
light. Form rather large balls  about the size of a small egg  



LETTER IV 29 

and cook for twenty minutes to half an hour. They must be 
as hght as sponge when cut with the spoon, and are very good 
in a soup of clear broth. This is a recipe from Bavaria, south- 
ern Germany. 

To-day's lesson having been long enough, I will stop here 
to continue in my next letter the chapter on soups. 



LETTER V 

They are very different thoughts born within man well nourished and 
man miserable and hungry.  Dr. J. N. voN Nussbaum. 

YOU are right, my teachings are tinctured to some extent 
by what I learned during the years I spent in Germany. I 
there became acquainted with the thrifty spirit of the better 
classes of the people, and with their ways of making a great deal 
out of a very little. The French in this respect do the same. 
Give them poor materials, and they will set before you a dainty 
meal. We, who have the best of everything, ought to do 
equally well, if not better. 

Of a great number of recipes for vegetable soups which 

I have at my command, I will select some typical ones, 

leaving it to you to vary and improve on them. 

Vegetable soups.  ^ / . , . . ^ 

ror you understand that it is not my inten- 
tion to write for you a regular cook-book. After you become 
familiar with the spirit of the art of cookery, you will continue 
 after the beginning you have made  to teach yourself far 
better than any one else could do it. 

Julienne Soup.  Take one carrot, a quarter of a white 
turnip, a quarter of a celery-root, half a parsnip, one small leek, 
about four leaves of a head of lettuce, and a quarter of the 
tender inside of a head of Savoy cabbage. Cut all this in nar- 
row strips, about two inches long, stew for half an hour in one 
ounce of butter ; but see that it does not get brown or stick to 
the vessel. Then add one quart of good, clear broth and boil 
the vegetables in it gently for one hour. According to the 
season, you may add to the foregoing vegetables some heads 
of asparagus, tender green peas, and string beans, cooked sepa- 
rately. Observe that this soup, after adding the broth to the 
30 



LETTER V 31 

vegetables done in butter, has to boil very gently to prevent 
the broth from getting cloudy. Serve with this soup some 
browned bread, or, if preferred, serve it over some boiled rice. 
A heaped tablespoonful of the latter v/ill be sufficient for the 
above quantity of soup. 

There is a general belief that herbs eaten in springtime are 
especially wholesome. The following recipe, taking this into 
account, is termed :  

Easter Soup.  Gather the young sprouts and leaves of wild 
herbs when their first shoots appear, such as dandelion, sheep- 
sorrel, yarrow, nettle, lady's-mantle (^Alchemilla vulgaris^ ^ 
strawberry leaves, etc. Take a handful of each; rinse repeat- 
edly in cold water and drain in a colander. Do not squeeze 
them, lest you lose some of their juices. Chop fine ; put into 
some good broth, and boil gently for about half an hour. Mix 
butter the size of a walnut with a teaspoonful of flour and drop 
it into half a cup of boiling cream or milk. When cooking has 
dissolved it, add it to the soup. Serve with poached eggs on 
top, or the custard the recipe of which I gave you in my 
last. 

Carrot Soup.  Take two large carrots, one small turnip, 
half a celery root, one leek ; boil in water which has been 
salted, adding butter the size of half an egg. When soft, drain 
and work through a sieve with a potato-masher. Add this pulp 
to the soup-liquor. 

This soup is improved by an addition of rice. The latter in 
combination with Savoy cabbage is excellent if the whitish part 
of the inside head only is taken, and cut into fine shreds. 

Asparagus Soup.  Take half a pound of fresh asparagus, 
cut off the heads, and boil separately in salted water until done, 
which will be in about fifteen minutes. Cut the rest into small 
pieces, throw them into boiling broth (which need not be of 
the best) and cook gently for one hour. Then pass through 
a fine colander ; put it back on the fire to boil up. Add the 
asparagus heads, and the yolks of one or two eggs beaten up in 
half a cup of cream. 

Green Pea Soup.  Take half a pint of large green peas, and 



32 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

a handful of both spinach leaves and parsley (which serve as 
coloring-matter). Cook the whole in some weak broth until 
quite soft ; rub through a fine colander ; put back on the fire, 
and let it come to a boil ; add a piece of butter the size of a 
walnut, and a handful of small green peas cooked separately. 
Some roses of cauliflower may be added ; or some of the little 
balls I gave you the recipes for. 

An Italian soup, called Risi-pisi, consists of green peas 
pulped through a sieve and mixed with boiled rice. 

Corn Soup.  Take a couple of ears of corn ; grate off the 
top skin of the grains all around them and by means of a tin 
spoon scoop out the milk and what is left of the grains. Stir 
the pulp thus obtained into boiling broth, and allow it to cook 
about an hour. Add a small lump of butter rolled in flour, and 
half a cup of cream or milk. 

Some tomato, either fresh or left over from a previous meal, 
is a good addition to corn soup. To make it still better, take 
Tomato, corn, l^ss of thc com, and add half a dozen okra pods 
and okra for soup, gliced thiu. Lcavc off the flour, and take of 
cream but one teaspoon, mixed with the yellow of an egg. 

A tomato soup without any accessories but milk, butter, salt, 
pepper, and cracker-crumbs is a very simple affair, and very 
good, indeed, but I would class it rather with the water soups. 
Tomato soup with rice is excellent when milk is left out, and a 
good broth is used instead of water. 
. The following I consider a very good recipe :  

Tomato Soup.  Take about ten tomatoes; cut them in 
pieces ; cook them with a quarter of a pound of ham, one 
onion in which stick a clove, a sprig of parsley, two pepper- 
corns, half a bay leaf (no salt on account of the ham) ; after 
half an hour drop into it butter size of a walnut mixed with a 
heaped teaspoonful of flour ; allow to dissolve while boiling, 
and rub through a wire sieve. Salt to taste. Add to a broth 
in which two or three teaspoonfuls of either very fine vermi- 
celli or starlets of vermicelh have been cooked. 

Tomato and okra seem to have been specially designed by 
nature to complement each other, the acid liquid of the one 



LETTER V 33 

being in accordance with the glutinous and grassy insipidity of 
the other. In the Southern States people found Tomato and 
this out long ago, and the result has been the oi<^a combined. 
gumbo soup. There are a great many varieties of recipes for 
this soup, most of them of an extrav^agant character. Okra 
grows readily in our gardens North, and makes a first-rate soup 
in combination with a "Julienne," an addition of tomato, and 
a bunch of thyme, sweet marjoram, and parsley, the bunch be- 
ing removed before serving the soup. The following is a 
Georgia recipe for a plain 

Gumbo Soup.  Take fresh tomatoes and okra in equal quan- 
tities, slice them ; cook gently in some beef liquor for several 
hours ; season to taste. Eoil rice separately, and serve with the 
soup. 

Black Bean Soup.  Soak over night one teacupful of black 
Mexican beans. Next day put them on to boil in three pints 
of cold water (if the water is hard add a pinch of baking soda, 
which will make it soft), and add any scraps of pork or ham 
you happen to have on hand. Add the salted meat after the 
water is tepid. Be careful in salting this soup. After the beans 
come to a boil add one small onion, and one clove. When 
quite done pulp the beans through a colander fine enough to 
retain the skins. Add more water, or some soup-liquor, if too 
thick. Serve over one or two hard-boiled eggs cut in quarters, 
and half a lemon sliced. If liked, add a tablespoonful of sherry 
at the last moment. 

The taste of this soup very much resembles that made of turtle. 

We have got now as far as the bean, pea, and lentil soups 
 all three of them very nourishing. You may use for them 
either broth or water, just as your judgment leads soups made 
you to do. If broth, scraps of meat left over, or o^p^'^e. 
a ham bone, will be sufficient for it ; but water will serve as 
well. It seems to me, therefore, that I might introduce the 
water soups here rather then later, since the best- 

r 1 T r 11 rr-. 1  Water soups. 

tastmg or them are made of vegetables. 1 o begm 

with I have to give you two different recipes for an excellent 

foundation of a water soup. 



34 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

Imitation Broth No. i .  Take one pint of dried peas ; pick 
out the bad ones and wash ; put them to boil with three pints 
Foundation for of Water, and a saltspoonful of salt. When quite 
water soups. ^qC^^ p^^jp tj^gni through a colander. Use this 

liquid at discretion for the foundation of soups. 

Imitation Broth No. 2.  Cook peas as above and strain 
them before they get soft, or rather as soon as the water turns 
yellow. Add to the latter such vegetables as carrot, turnip, 
onion, celery root, after they have been sliced and browned in 
a tablespoonful of butter, or fat. Add salt, and allow fully an 
hour to boil. If hked, a " bouquet," or bunch of thyme and 
parsley, some pepper seeds, and a small bay leaf may be added 
with the vegetables. The strained peas may be used up in some 
other way. 

Another flavoring is obtained by adding the shavings and 
fibrous parts of asparagus. They ought, therefore, to be saved 
at the right season, dried, and put away carefully in the store 
closet. 

Recipe No. i I found in a German cook-book, " The 
Perfect Lenten Fare," written by a " cook for many years " in 
a Catholic vicarage. She says this pea broth is the foundation 
for all lenten soups. 

To make soup without meat, of either dried peas, beans, 

or lentils you wash them first, then soak them over night, and 

put them on the stove at an early hour, with 

How to make -^ r i i /-r-. i i i j 

a good soup plenty of cold water. (Remember that nard water, 

' ^" '^' for cooking purposes, has to be made soft by 

adding a pinch of baking soda.) Do not let them get dry, 
but replenish the water if not sufficient. Pulse takes from 
two to three hours to get thoroughly done. To raise it to 
the proper standard of nourishment, the addition of fat is 
needed. Pork drippings are the best for this purpose. Both 
pea and lentil soups are improved by adding an hour before 
meal-time some soup-vegetables, sliced and browned in fat. 
If the soup, after being rubbed through a colander, lacks con- 
sistency, a little flour mixed with butter may be added to 
thicken it. The lentil soup is improved by some lemon juice 



LETTER V 35 

or vinegar, which by softening the cellulose, or woody particles 
of this highly nourishing vegetable, helps the digestive powers 
to perform the heavy task imposed upon them by it. 

Bean soup does not need the additional vegetables. If 
liked, a small onion and a slice of bacon cut in little dice may 
be fried crisp in a hot pan, and added to the soup after it has 
been rubbed through the colander. 

All three soups are improved by serving them over bits of 
bread fried crisp in butter or fat. A sausage cooked, skinned, 
and cut into thick slices is also a pleasant addition. 

In contrast to the above vegetables potatoes have but little 
alimentary value. Still, a soup made of them is often con- 
venient, and palatable. 

Potato Soup.  Take either cooked potatoes left over, and 
grate them, or peel, slice, and cook raw potatoes in salted 
water until quite soft. Add to the water a little bunch of 
sweet marjoram, an onion, and a small celery root. If grated 
potatoes are used which have been cooked before, stir them 
into the boiling liquid at the very last, and allow to boil up 
once or twice. For this sort of soup, imitation broth No. 2 is 
in order. The soup made of raw potatoes has to be rubbed 
through a colander. Add minced parsley to it, if sweet mar- 
joram is not liked. One or two eggs beaten up in some milk 
or cream will greatly improve the nourishing quality of a 
potato soup. 

By a simple process easily divined, a good many of the 
recipes for soups I have given you can be turned into water 
soups. Therefore, I will only add two more recipes. 

A Green Soup.  Take one handful of garden sorrel and one 
of spinach  the stripped leaves only. Wash them well ; 
chop them, but not too fine, with a sprig of parsley and a few 
lettuce leaves ; toss them over the fire in hot butter the size of 
half an egg ; then add one quart of boiling water, salt, a slice 
of stale bread, one onion, one clove, and (if convenient) a 
couple of pistachio nuts peeled and cut into shreds. Allow all 
this to boil gently for one hour, and no longer. Then rub the 
whole through a sieve, and add two eggs with some cream. 



36 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

Serve either over some browned bread or some of the little 
bread balls mentioned before. Or leave away the latter as 
well as the egg, and serve the egg custard with this soup. 

Pea-pod Soup.  Put to boil three pints of water ; fill the 
kettle up to the water's edge with the well-washed pods of 
fresh peas after the latter have been removed ; add one table- 
spoonful of drippings, some salt, and a few pepper seeds ; also 
some thyme, parsley, and celery leaves. Cook until the pods 
are quite soft, when strain off the liquid into another pot, and 
pound the pods in a mortar to a pulp. Now put the latter 
back into the sieve and rub through into the liquid. Heat up 
again, and add either some of the peas cooked separately or 
some young carrots sliced and cooked beforehand ; or serve 
over browned bread, etc., according to your own judgment. 

The lesson of economy this soup teaches is evident. 

We have come at last to the soups I have enumerated as 

those of the third kind. They are made chiefly of meat hashed 

very fine, and are generally called by the French 

Soups made ^ \  ^ ' . . 

of chopped term puree. Ihere are a great many varieties. 

'"^^  If you mean to be economical, you will use for 

them remnants of meat. Trim it olT the bones carefully, 
remove all fat and sinew, and chop it as fine as possible. The 
bones, of course, you will crack and add to the kettle in which 
the broth is simmering. Take the minced meat, toss it a few 
times over the fire in a little very hot butter. This is the thick- 
ening for your soup, which you may serve either white or 
brown, according to the meat you use. If white, you take half 
a cup of cream or milk ; drop into it, when boiling, butter and 
flour rubbed into a ball ; cook it until dissolved and smooth ; 
then add the yolks of one or two eggs, beaten up. Put the 
hashed meat into the tureen first, then the whitening with the 
^%%, and at last the broth, being careful to mix the whole grad- 
ually and thoroughly. Minced parsley may be added. If the 
soup is to be brown, take butter and flour of equal quantity, 
mix it in a very hot iron pan, and continue stirring over the fire 
until evenly brown. Add enough of the broth  a little at a 
time, and stirring well  to make a thick brown batter; add 



LETTER V 37 

this to the broth for your soup, let it boil up a few times, see- 
ing that it is smooth, then add your minced meat, and serve. 
With the white as well as the brown soup, an addition of either 
forcemeat, bread, or egg balls is in place. 

The above gives you the generalization of this kind of very 
nourishing soups, to which I will add some special recipes. I 
begin with a soup w^hich " Mademoiselle Frangoise " (the pseu- 
donym of a lady known in French society) invented for her 
frequent guest, Offenbach, the composer, after his years and 
labors began to tell on his health. 

Raw Meat Soup.  Take a good beef broth ; boil in it some 
pearl sago ; when done, add the yolk of an egg mixed with a 
tablespoonful of tepid broth and a little grated Parmesan cheese. 
At the very last, when already in the tureen, add, while stirring 
carefully, some raw beef free of all fat and sinew, which previ- 
ously has been chopped very fine. 

The most delicate of this kind of soups is the chicken puree^ 
which goes by the name of soupe a la reine. Of the different 
recipes I know of, I select the following as being, in my opinion, 
the best, and at the same time the most practical one. 

Chicken Puree Soup (or Soupe a la Reine).  Boil an old 
hen in two quarts of water with a saltspoonful of salt, the usual 
vegetables, one bay leaf and about six white pepperseeds. 
When the meat is quite tender, take it off the bones, remove 
the skin and tendons ; chop it first very fine, then pound it to 
a pulp in a mortar with a little butter and six blanched almonds.^ 
Meanwhile set on to boil three ounces of Carolina rice in the 
chicken liquor, freed of fat. When the rice is thoroughly soft, 
which will be in about an hour, mix with it the chicken pulp, and 
rub the whole through a wire sieve. This soup must have the 
consistency of thick cream. If too thick, add some handy soup 
liquor, or water, or milk. You may also add some yolk of egg, 
but it would change the color, which ought to be white. If 
you v/ish this soup to be particularly nice, take merely the 
white meat for the thickening, separating it from the dark 

1 See p. 207. 



38 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

meat, and using the latter for some forcemeat balls. The above 
is sufficient for from six to eight persons. 

Game Puree Soup.  Take the bones and meat of any cooked 
game ; also the heads, necks, and giblets of the same ; stew in 
plenty of water, with a thin slice of fat bacon, an onion, half a 
small carrot, one bay leaf, and a few black pepper seeds. When 
quite soft remove the meat to a chopping-bowl and allow the 
rest to stew a while longer. Chop the meat, then pound it to a 
pulp in a mortar. Brown a scant tablespoonful of flour in but- 
ter the size of a walnut ; add it to the hquor which you strain 
off the bones, then add the pounded meat, and as much more 
broth (or water) necessary to give to your soup the proper con- 
sistency. Rub the whole through a wire sieve and serve over 
browned slices of bread. 

Sweetbread Soup.  Blanch and skin one sweetbread.^ Melt 
a piece of butter the size of a walnut, and when hot put into 
it the sweetbread with a pinch of salt, and one small onion, 
whole. Cover it up, and simmer over a slow fire until tender, 
which will be in about fifteen minutes. Then take out the 
sweetbread, and cut it into small dice. Remove the onion, 
and stir into the hot butter one tablespoonful of flour. When 
well mixed add some light-colored broth,  either chicken or 
veal ; let it boil for several minutes, stirring all the while to 
prevent its getting lumpy. Add the sweetbread, and last of all 
the yolk of an egg beaten up in a few tablespoonfuls of cream. 

If you leave out the onion, this is a first-rate soup for an 
Soup for invalid. The next one, although very good, I 

an invalid. would not rccommcnd for this purpose, owing 

to the large percentage of fatty substance contained in the 
brain. 

Calf's Brain Soup.  Soak a calfs brain for fifteen minutes 
in tepid water ; then pull off the skin ; heat butter the size of a 
walnut in a frying-pan ; put in it the brain, and stir it with a 
spoon until like mush ; dust over it some flour, and allow it to 
simmer, stirring all the time, for about five minutes longer. 

1 See p. 72. 



LETTER V 39 

Thin it with broth, nib it through a fine sieve, and put it back 
on the fire to boil up. Add some egg and cream, and serve 
over pieces of bread which have been fried crisp. 

To conclude this matter of soups, I want to give you for your 
edification  play after work  a sample of what our fore- 
fathers considered a fine bruce (broth) or soup. An English 
manuscript of the XV. century has the following :  

Take the intestines of a pig, and boil them gently ; cut them 
into bits, and put them in a pot with some good broth ; then 
take some white leek, peel it, and cut it into 

 . XT  I 1 1  "''^0 '^ recipes. 

small pieces. jNow with some chopped onions 
add it to the former, and set on to boil the whole. Dip bread 
in some broth, and make it tasty with blood and vinegar ; put 
it into a pot, allow it to boil up with pepper and cloves, and 
send the whole to the table. With it was served an entire 
pig's head. 

Another recipe says : Take powdered rice and cook with 
milk of almond until thick ; take also gizzards of capons or 
hens, pound them in a mortar, mix with the former, put the 
whole into a pot, adding powdered cinnamon and cloves ; and 
dust some sandalwood over the v/hole. 

Might this be the progenitor of our chicken puree soup ? I 
leave it for you to solve. 



LETTER VI 

Too little can always take more, 
But too much can never restore. 

What say you to a piece of beef and mustard ? 

 Shakespeare. 

YOU ask me for a rule in salting. This is slightly embarrassing, 
for there is really no rule to rely upon. Salt is a mineral 
(chloride of sodium) which exists in all animal substances as 
well as in all vegetable matters. But it does not 

Difficulties in ... , . rni 

regard to the enter Hito them m equal proportions. 1 here- 
saitingoffoo . ^^^^ ^^^ \i\xid of food nccds morc, another less 

salt added in cooking. Fat meat, for instance, has to be salted 
more than lean meat ; and of all kinds of meat, venison and 
other game has to be salted most sparingly on account of the 
larger percentage of salt contained in the flesh already. Of the 
vegetables, all grains and those rich in starch possess very little 
salt, while spinach, for instance, has 0.6 per cent, beans have 
0.4, and figs 0.8 per cent of salt. 

Another difficulty in giving rules about salting is the differ- 
ence in the salt we buy. It is either good, i.e. pure salt, or 
bad, which means adulterated. The latter, of course, does not 
The qualities scrve its full purposc. Good salt must be of a 
of pure salt. p^^j.^ sparkling white ; its taste must not be bitter ; 

it must not be moist, nor pack into lumps ; it must dissolve in 
water without any visible sediment, for which trial you take one 
part of salt to three of water. Salt, if adulterated, is mostly 
mixed with gypsum (sulphate of lime), which, when added in 
quantities above five per cent changes the appearance of the 
salt to a dull white. If you dissolve this salt in water, the 
latter will remain cloudy. It is more easily tested when 
coarse, than when fine. 
40 



LETl^ER VI 41 

It is safe in all cases to salt but slightly at first. More can 
be easily added if necessary, while an overdose of salt is diffi- 
cult and often impossible to remedy. Any kind of food if 
salted too much is spoiled. Not only is it unpleasant to the 
taste, but it also has lost its wholesome properties. For scald- 
ing vegetables or boiling macaroni you may safely take a scant 
tablespoonful of salt to every quart of water ; but in most other 
cases your taste has to judge how much or how Httle salt a dish 
of food needs. 

Aside from making food palatable, salt helps to digest it on 
account of its dissolvent property. It assists especially to 
liquefy fatty and albuminous substances, which sait assists 
then are more readily absorbed by the system, ^'g^stion. 
It is also well to know that salted water requires a higher tem- 
perature to reach the boiling-point. Thus it is a saitwiii raise 
means, by increase of heat, to render any tough- JJre^oHhe'^' 
ness of fibre softer and tenderer. boiiing-point. 

Salt, therefore, is the one seasoning cookery cannot spare. 
This accounts for the value attached to it in all ages, and by all 
nations. Aborigines have gone to war for it. 

r  1 T  r ^'S*^ value 

Homer suigs oi it as the aivme, the noblest of of salt in 
flavors ; and in England, during the Middle Ages, ''^^^ ^^^^' 
the salt-cellar was a standard of rank. It stood in the centre 
of the table, and a gentleman sitting at the upper half thought 
himself too good to drink to one sitting at the same table 
*' below the salt." A meal without salt  who would relish 
it? The best, however, of all dinners is the one where the 
^'Attic salt" is not lacking either. 

You have noticed that in all my recipes for broth and soups 
spice is used but sparingly. I mean by it, especially the exotic 
spices, the immoderate use of which is hurtful, jhe use and 
while a little of it, and of the right sort, im- value of spices. 
proves the flavor of a dish, and, like salt, helps digestion by 
promoting the secretion of the gastric juice. Therefore, a weak 
digestion is often benefited by the addition to food of pepper, 
allspice, cloves, ginger, nutmeg, cinnamon, etc.  each where 
it belongs, and in small quantities ; while spice in excess will 



42 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

always work harm in the long run by irritating the mucous mem- 
Too much spice branc, oftcntimcs causing malignant dyspepsia. 
IS hurtful. Besides, the art of cooking goes begging as soon 

as you overcharge your soups, gravies, etc., with spice. It 
makes all food taste alike in destroying the particular flavor of 
each kind. In following, for instance, most of the English 
recipes for soups, you will have generally a taste of something 
hot burning your palate and stomach alike ; but you are hardly 
able to distinguish any other ingredients except an overdose of 
spice. 

I would warn you not to buy your spice, nor your herbs, in 
a powder. Buy them whole, and highest priced, to get them 
Buy spices and purc. They will be the cheapest in the end. 
herbs whole. jf j^gp^ j^ tight-fitting boxcs, and ground in a 

spice- mill when needed, spices will always have their fresh aro- 
matic properties, and serve their purpose well. 

Herbs, like thyme, sage, sweet marjoram, etc., I buy in 
market when fresh from the ground. After rinsing them well, 
How to pre- ^^d rcmoving what is imperfect, I dry them with 

serve herbs. ^ clcan towcl, and hang them up in a dry place, 

stems upward, and surrounded by a clean sheet of paper, which 
is left open below. The latter prevents the dust settling on 
them. When they are quite dry I tie the paper up all around, 
only to be opened when a sprig is needed. 

With parsley and celery leaves I do differently. I dry them 
in a cool oven, and then rub them to a powder. In order to 
remove the stems remaining, I sift the latter through a fine 
wire sieve. It is quite economical to provide for parsley in this 
way as long as cheap. It is also very convenient to have it at 
hand in the shape of a powder, instead of having to mince it, 
although the dry article is not equal to the fresh in flavor. 

Of lemons and oranges, when the juice is used for cooking, 
I cut off the peel with a sharp knife, quite thin, to be put in 
L, , , corked bottles  each kind by itself  with some 

How to keep ' 

lemon and good brandy. More peel may be added at any 

time. This makes a pleasant flavoring for fruit 

sauces, puddings, and other desserts. In peeling be careful 



LETTER VI 43 

not to cut off any of the white underlying the outer yellow. 
It is of a bitter taste, and, in addition, prevents the aromatic 
oil of the peel from yielding its aroma. The juice of a sour 
orange is often preferable to lemon juice for cooking purposes. 
It imparts a most delicate flavor even to sauces accompanying 
dishes of meat or vegetables. 

 You are anxious, however, to have me tell you about meat 
 the staple article of food whenever the question of good 
nourishment is concerned. Of all meat, beef is ^ , 

' (jrades of 

the highest in order. Next to it come venison nourishment 
and pigeon, especially squab, which is invaluable 
for the sick and persons of weak digestive power. But, to 
give you a clear estimate of the different grades of nutritives 
in meats, it will be necessary to figure them out in percentages. 
The following tables will show you that the fatter the meat is 
the more its large percentage of water is reduced and replaced 
by substance. 

Water. Albuminoids. Fats. Mineral Matters. 

Lean beef 76.5 21.0 1.5 i.o 

Middling fat beef 72.5 21.0 5.5 i.o 

Very fat beef 55.5 17.0 26.5 1.0 

Lean veal 78.0 20.0 1.0 1.0 

Fat veal 72.5 19.0 7.5 1.0 

Middling fat mutton 76.0 17.0 6.0 1.0 

Fat mutton 48.0 15.0 36.0 1.0 

Lean pork 72.0 20.0 7.0 1.0 

Fat pork 47.0 14.5 37.5 1.0 

Chicken middling fat 75.0 20.0 4.0 1.0 

Venison 75.5 22.5 1.0 1.0 



I have demonstrated to you that meat when used for the 
purpose of making broth or soup has to be treated so as to ex- 
tract its juices, leaving^ the fibre as refuse. The ^^ . . 

' ' *-" The juices of 

opposite treatment is necessary for all meats which meat must 

, . be kept intact. 

are to serve as roasts, steaks, cutlets, stews, etc. 
With these the utmost care has to be taken that none of the 
juices leak out of the meat. They must be kept intact. If 
not, so much of the nourishment contained in the meat as will 
escape is waste material and loss to the individual to be fed. 



44 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

In order to show you how to proceed I will begin with a broiled 
beefsteak :  

Get a porterhouse steak an inch thick of about one to one 
and a half pounds. If of a well-fed ox, it contains more 
nourishment in proportion than a lower-priced 
a beefsteak piece of the samc weight. See that your fire is 
stS'rTlthr^"* bright and clear of smoke. Have your gridiron 
principle of the \^q^ pour 3. litUc of the best olive oil into a cup, 

art of cooking _ ^' 

meat nneant take 3. loug-haired brush kept for such purposes 

only, dip it into the oil, and grease with it gridiron 
and steak. Have the dish hot in which to ser\^e the latter, and 
place on it a piece of fresh butter the size of a walnut. Put your 
gridiron and meat on the fire, not so near as to burn it, and yet 
near enough for the meat to become seared over and browned in 
two or three minutes. Then turn it and allow the other side to 
get brown as quickly. In this way the albumen on the outside 
of the meat, by coming in contact with the heat, coagulates, 
and furnishes a crust through which the meat-juice cannot 
escape ; it stays inside, and thus is kept intact. Place the 
steak on the dish ready to receive it ; put some salt on the 
upper side, and a sprinkle of pepper if preferred ; then turn 
this side downward to come in contact Avith the butter ; turn it 
back again and serve it at once. With this recipe you have the 
principle to apply to all meats meant for food. 

The roast is managed in the same way. Take a rib piece. 
Have the butcher cut it as short as he is willing to do. Or 
How to have him take the bones out (which you use for 

roast beef. soup) and roll it up, fastening it tight with twine. 

Do not use skewers ; they make unsightly holes, and allow the 
juice to escape. Have your oven thoroughly hot. Put a tea- 
spoonful of butter, or as much suet dripping, into your meat- 
pan, and when melted and very hot, put in your roast, and 
place in the oven. Brown it on all sides as rapidly as possible 
to form that impenetrable thin crust, inside of which the par- 
ticles of water contained in the meat will develop into steam. 
This in its turn permeates the meat-fibre, softens the muscle, 
and cooks the meat in its own juices. As soon as this crust is 



/ 



LETFER VI 45 

formed the heat of the oven has to be slackened. To prevent 
the outside from burning or drying up, a Httle melted butter has 
to be kept in readiness with which to baste the meat from time 
to time. It takes fifteen minutes for every pound of beef to 
have the roast done rare. A quarter of an hour before it is 
done sprinkle with salt. Do not do it earlier ; for salt, being a 
dissolvent, softens the outside and extracts the juices. When 
the roast is done put it on a hot dish, clear the pan of fat, add 
a little boiling water or beef broth (one saltspoonful of Liebig's 
extract dissolved is an excellent addition) and a little salt ; let 
it boil up while loosening with a spoon the brown deposit at- 
tached to the bottom and sides of the pan. Take care not to 
dilute it too much. Strain through a fine wire sieve, and serve 
this gravy with the meat. If you should prefer your roast 
without any other gravy than the juice running out in carving  
which is the very best you could have  the made gravy can be 
kept over and used afterward in various ways, as, for instance, 
in hash or soup. I have purposely given you the recipe for 
roasting in the oven, and not on the spit before the fire. Al- 
though the latter is decidedly the best, the former can produce 
as good and nourishing a roast, if strictly done in the above 
way. It is the easiest way for young housekeepers who cannot 
afford to keep an experienced cook. 

Be sure never to stick a fork into any kind of meat which is 
to appear on the table. By making holes for the juices to leak 
out, the nourishing properties of the meat will be  ,. . 

' oil Precaution in 

reduced. I keep a pair of meat tongs in my the handling 
kitchen for handling and turning steaks and cut- 
lets. For turning or lifting larger pieces of meat take two 
wooden ladles. 

If for any reason you wish to use a lower-priced or indiffer- 
ent piece of meat, you will do best to stew or braise it, observ- 
ing the same principles as before. Use for it a How to stew 
stewing-pot with a tight-fitting hd. Brown the or braise nneat. 
meat first on all sides in hot butter or fat. The highest 
temperature of fat is three times as hot as boiling water. 
The latter (or boiling broth) being added after the meat is 



46 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

browned will lower the heat in which the meat cooks consider- 
ably, which is necessary to steam the inside of the meat until 
tender. After adding the liquid allow it to boil up a few times ; 
then secure the lid of the cooking-vessel as tightly as possible 
and remove the latter to a place where the temperature is kept 
somewhat below the point of boiling  where the contents will 
merely simmer. If allowed actually to boil, the juices inside 
the meat will dry up and the meat will be tough. From the 
time your meat begins to simmer, it will take from half an 
hour to one hour for each pound to get tender. A small piece 
will get done relatively sooner than a large piece. I will give 
you here a recipe of Mile. Frangoise's for braised beef. 

Take four slices of fat bacon ; brown them slightly in an 
iron pot ; remove them, and brown in the fat remaining a 
Recipe for piccc of bccf (about four pounds of the round) 

braised beef. qj-^ ^j| sidcs. Then take the bacon, place two of 

the slices underneath and two above the beef. Have in readi- 
ness one tablespoonful of chopped mushrooms, one teaspoon- 
ful each of minced onion, parsley, chervil, and sweet basil ; 
moisten all this with either a wineglassful of cooking sherry or 
a small cupful of broth. Add the whole to the meat, cover it 
up tightly, and let it simmer very slowly for from four to five 
hours. Be sparing with the salt on account of the salted pork. 
The liquid remaining in the pot, after the meat is taken out, 
will make a sauce to be served with it by adding some browned 
flour or roux, and some whole mushrooms, after the sauce has 
been passed through a wire sieve. 

I have given you these three recipes to show the principal 
methods to be followed in cooking meats. Keep in your mind 
the law laid down in them and apply it to all other kinds of meat. 

The time, however, which is required for cooking the differ- 
ent meats is not the same for all. Mutton has to be cooked 
T-. . . more than beef; roast it fully twenty minutes for 

Time required ' ' ' 

for roasting cach pound, and five minutes more each pound 

of meat be- for a large leg of mutton. Veal and pork must be 

well done to be wholesome ; you may safely take 

half an hour for each pound, but twenty-five minutes only when 



LETTER VI 47 

your roast is a loin. Chicken and turkey require twenty min- 
utes each pound, but spring chickens are done in fifteen min- 
utes, and so are all small birds. Pigeons and partridges require 
half an hour, prairie chickens three-quarters of an hour. 

I now return to the beef, than which for nourishment, if 
properly treated, there is nothing better. The rib piece, by 
which I demonstrated to you the principle at the _, 

-' -t ' Respective 

base of roastinsf, is surpassed in succulence by the value of differ- 

... , , ' , ^ 1 , . -1 ent cuts of beef. 

sirlom and the nlet, or tenderlom  respectively 
the outer and inner parts of the loin. The filet, bare of all 
bone, by itself, is sold disproportionately high in price in the 
large cities, and therefore is not recommendable for small 
households like yours and mine. But, after all, you might 
some day have occasion for a filet-roast, and will then be glad 
to have the following recipe for filet of beef a la jaj-diniere. 
For this piece of meat, eiofht minutes' cooking; for  . , 

i^ ' o o Recipe for 

each pound is sufficient, if m.eant to be rare: fiietofbeef 

, . . , 1 -n. 11 a \a jardiniere. 

otherwise ten minutes each pound. Remove both 
fat and skin  the latter very carefully, with a sharp-pointed 
knife, so as not to cut into the flesh. Lard it on top as closely 
as possible in several rows. Have a dripping-pan hot, melt in 
it some butter  a piece the size of an ^gg for every two 
pounds. When right hot put in your filet and brown it rapidly 
on all sides. Then continue to roast with moderate heat. 
Baste frequently with the butter in the pan. Sprinkle with 
some salt when in the oven half an hour, and finish basting 
with a cupful of cream. If preferred, a few spoonfuls of beef 
broth can be added to the butter in the pan, instead of basting 
with cream. Take the fat off the gravy, strain it, and serve it 
poured over the filet. Surround the latter with different kinds 
of vegetables, as young carrots, green peas, Brussels sprouts, 
" roses " of cauliflower, chestnuts, mushrooms, etc. Arrange 
them in little bunches, or bouquets, each kind by itself, and if 
tomatoes are in season divide each bouquet by a large stuffed 
tomato. 

It is very likely that you will nave part of the filet left over, 
of which remnant you wish to make the most. This is the 



48 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

Special way in which I use up cold beefsteak or roast beef: 

Scorch a scant tablespoonful of flour in a table- 

ilith^rlmnants spoonful of dripplugs ; add soup liquor sufficient 

of beefsteak ^q make 3. thick sauce, stirring; all the while until 

and roast beef. ' ^ 

smooth ; add salt and pepper, a teaspoonful of 
lemon juice, and as much, or more, of mushroom catsup. 
When ready add the meat, either cut in dice or in thin slices, 
and stir until completely immersed in the sauce ; cover up 
tightly, and set either on a vessel of boiling water, or on a 
place where the meat gets heated through, but does not boil. 
In fifteen minutes it will be ready to serve. Another way is 
this, which is given by Alexandre Dumas, who was never hap- 
pier than when able to don the white apron and cook a meal 
for one or more friends :  

For "beef en inatelotte'^ peel some small onions and put 
them in a saucepan with some butter ; place them over a slow 
Recipe for beef ^^e uutil of a light brown \ dust over them a table- 
en mateiotte. spoouful of flour, and contiuuc to cook slowly. 
After the flour is of the same color as the onions, add a glassful 
of claret (or a tablespoonful of orange juice), half as much 
broth, a few mushrooms, some salt, pepper, and a bouquet of 
one bay leaf and a sprig of thyme. Allow the whole to stew 
for a little while, then pour it over slices of cooked beef, and 
place for half an hour where the meat will be kept hot, and be 
saturated with the sauce without boiling. 

In the foregoing you have means to prove the truth of 
what the famous Dr. von Nussbaum  of Munich, Germany  
wrote : " All our thinking and doing is far greater in value 
when we are well nourished, than it is when we are poorly fed 
and not our real selves in consequence." 



LETTER VII 

Is not veal a calf ? 
Good pasture makes fat sheep. 



 Shakespeare. 



YOU wish to know how much meat for roasts to provide for 
your usual meals as well as for company. Before giving 
you my opinion, I must remind you that there is waste mate- 
rial in what you buy, which tells in weight but vvaste material 
does not count as food. Water is waste material, '"^'^ matters. 
and so are bones. Then, also, meat when cooked weighs less 
than when you bought it ; the loss in weight is different in boil- 
insf and roasting. When boiled, beef loses is, , r  u* 

o o ' J' Loss of weight 

mutton and turkey i6, chicken 13+, and ham 6 in boiiing 

1 1 r 1 " 1 ^"<^ roasting. 

per cent; when roasted, beef loses ig^f mutton 
24I-, turkey 2o|-, lamb 2 2|-, duck 27^, and chicken 14 per cent 
in weight. Considering all this, and that the larger your roast 
the juicier and better it is apt to be, I would advise, for a 
household of three, never to provide less than four pounds for 
roasting beef, mutton, and veal, and to take one-half pound 
more for each guest who dines with you. Of steaks, chops, 
and cutlets, as a general rule half a pound is sufficient for each 
person. In case of company for dinner, when you will have 
other courses besides, a large chicken or a capon is sufficient 
for six persons, a turkey for a company of ten to twelve, a 
duck but for three to four persons. The latter reminds me of 
a recipe quoted in C. Monselet's " Gastronomic." 

It is equally good for a tame or a wild duck, and is called 
*' duckd /a P(j/'/i/o^(7tse.^^ Take the heart, e^izzard, _, . , 

/'^ 7 o 7 Recipe for 

and liver, and mince them with three shallots (a duck a la 
11  -r 1 t 11 V  Portugaise. 

small onion 11 you cannot get the shallots) ; mix 
with a teaspoonful of salt and half as much black pepper; 

49 



/ 



50 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

add a piece of table butter size of an egg and mix the whole 
with a silver fork. Then introduce the mixture into the inside 
of the duck, and sew it up at both ends. Take a large napkin, 
fold it in three thicknesses, roll your duck up in it and fasten 
it tightly all over with twine. Put it into boiling water well 
salted, and cover it up. Let it boil for thirty minutes if a tame 
duck, but thirty-five minutes if a wild one. Remove both twine 
and napkin and serve on a hot dish with pieces of lemon for 
a garnish. 

I mention this only by the way ; and since variety is the spice 
of life, you will not object. Later on I intend saying more of 
poultry, but first I mean to talk to you about the kinds of meat 
on which we depend chiefly for ordinary use. 

Veal is much less nourishing than well-fed beef. It has less 
muscle, about one-third less iron, and is poorer in alkalies. If, 
General r'=marks howevcr, thc animal is not too young, and has 
about veal. bccu wcU carcd for, it furnishes the table with a 

variety of food which in the hands of a clever cook may be 
turned into a great many pleasant surprises. La Reyniere, who 
wrote the famous "Almanac des Gourmands," calls the calf 
" the chameleon of the kitchen," on account of the number 
of different dishes into which it can be turned. The ten- 
derest parts of the calf are the loin, with the kidneys attached,^ 
and the breast. The latter is cheaper than either the loin or^[ 
leg, and therefore an economical piece of meat. It may be 
stuffed and roasted ; or stewed, and served with a white 
sauce ; or made into a delicious " roulade " for slicing when 
cold. In case you have a loin of veal, and you wish to make 
the most of it, you can use the kidneys for a savory breakfast 
dish in the following way : When the roast is 
o/veafk-dtieys. about half-douc, rcmove the kidneys embedded in 
their fat. ]\Iince them with one shallot (or a bit 
of onion) and a sprig of parsley; melt a teaspoonful of but- 
ter in a skillet, add the mince when the butter is hot ; cover 
it and allow it to stew for about fifteen minutes over a very 
moderate fire, shaking the skillet with its contents from time 
to time to prevent the latter from burning. Add a pinch or 



LETTER VII 51 

two of salt to the mince, and after you take it off the fire a 
little white pepper and a few drops of lemon juice. Set aside 
until next morning, when add one egg, and mix it in well. 
Now cut some slices of bread, brown them slightly in a little 
butter, then spread over one side of them the prepared kid- 
neys, about half an inch thick ; dust over them some grated 
Parmesan cheese, and over it some fine bread-crumbs. Sprinkle 
over the whole some melted butter, place the slices on a tin 
dish, and put them in a quick oven to get a light brown on top. 
Serve hot. 

A roast is not always desirable for a small family. Veal cutlets 
have the same nourishing properties, if prepared in the right 
way. The cutlets from the loin are the best, but 

, ^ , 1 1 1  Veal cutlets. 

those cut from the leg may be made just as savory, 
and are the cheapest. Have the butcher cut you one pound 
off the leg in slices one-third of an inch (half a finger's width) 
thick. Divide this meat into pieces as lartre as the 

1 1 -n. 1  11 V^^' cutlets 

palm of your hand. Remove skm and bone, a/aparmen- 
pound the cutlets with the flat side of a kitchen 
knife, and turn them in some flour. Then heat a teaspoonful 
of butter in a saucepan and throw in a teaspoonful of minced 
onion. When the latter begins to turn yellow put in your cut- 
lets, one beside the other, and add a few small slices of thinly 
cut ham. Let all get brown first on one side and then on the 
other. Sprinkle a very little salt over the veal, add some pep- 
per, and a few squeezes of lemon juice. When the ham is 
tender take it out and cut the lean in as many small diamond- 
shaped pieces as you have cutlets, and keep hot. Add a little 
water to the cutlets, cover them up and allow to simmer 
on a slow fire until quite tender, adding more liquid if 
necessary. Serve them on a bed of mashed potatoes, place a 
piece of ham on every cutlet and pour the gravy around the 
potatoes. 

When in Carlsbad, Austria, I learned from the bill of fare 
that this dish was called veal cutlet a Ii pirmenficre. After 
giving you this particular recipe in which you have the base 
for cooking veal cutlet, I leave it to you to vary according to 



o2 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

your own good judgment. You might have peas instead of 
potatoes ; or you misrht leave out the ham and 

W\enn3. Schnitzel, ^ . , , , . , i ^^ r^ 

garnish the cutlets with capers and slices of lemon, 
serving the vegetable separately. The latter way is called 
Vienna Schnitzel. 

If parts of cooked or roasted veal are left over, you may use 

it to advantage for a baked hash, called miroton: Chop fine 

the veal and, if on hand, some fat ham or bacon. 

A^/roio/7 of veal. .... i /-  r 

Mmce a slice of onion and a few sprigs of pars- 
ley. Take bread-crumbs, about a third of the amount of 
chopped meat ; soak them in milk, and squeeze dry by means 
of a clean towel. Add some salt and white pepper, and one ^g^ 
beaten light beforehand. Mix well all these ingredients, then 
warm  but do not cook  them in a saucepan. Now taste 
the hash, and see that it is right in salt and spice. Put it into 
a deep dish, well buttered, and bake it in a quick oven. It 
ought to turn out whole. A tomato or a caper sauce served 
with it will greatly improve this dish. 

A great delicacy are the sweetbreads. They are both nour- 
ishing and easily digested, therefore invaluable for the sick. 

But, unfortunately, they are so high-priced in our 
fiTcfcSfThead large citics (even in the country butchers no 

longer throw them away, as they used to do) that 
they belong to the luxuries. A calf's head also is not cheap ; 
it, however, furnishes us w4th enough material to permit even 
an economical housewife to purchase it now and then. Beside 
the meat and skin there are the brains and the tongue for use. 
Since all gelatinous matter  and the calf's head has a great 
deal of it  is not easily digested, the addition of a slight acid 
is necessary either in the preparation of such matter or in 
what is served with it. To increase the nutritive properties of 
calf s head, eggs are a first-rate complement. 
Recipes for ^ havc two recipcs which I would recommend 

calf's head. both for their simplicity and wholesomeness. 

After the head has been properly scraped and cleaned 
(which the butcher generally does) , have it split in halves, 
giving particular orders not to split the tongue as well. Soak 



LETTER VII 53 

the whole in cold water for about two hours, then remove the 
brain and set it aside. Put the halves, with the tongue, on the 
fire, with cold water to cover it ; add salt in moderate quantity ; 
add one or two pounds of beef bones, if you wish to make 
your dish particularly nourishing. After the scum is removed 
add two carrots, one turnip-rooted celery, one onion, a bunch 
of parsley, eight white pepper seeds, and half a cup of vinegar. 
Allow to boil slowly until soft, which will be in about two hours. 
Now take the fleshy parts ofl" the bone, also the ears, and peel 
the tongue (unless you wish to save it for a special dish later 
on, when it will keep fresher in its skin). Cut all this into 
nicely shaped pieces and set to keep warm as much of it as 
you wish to use for your dish presently. The rest you cover up 
with some of the strained liquor and set away. In cold weather 
it will keep for weeks. It can be used in various fashions, for 
soups, ragouts, etc. ; or it may be baked. 

Although the brains may be used for a soup or fried in a 
batter^ etc., I propose that you should use them for a dish of 
"baked calf's head." Take as much as about half of the above 
cooked head. Cut the pieces rather small. After the brains 
have been well soaked in salted water, scald them in boiling 
water, and remove all skins and veins ; then mash them through 
a sieve, mix them with a cupful of cream, half a teaspoonful of 
flour, two eggs well beaten, a saltspoonful of salt and a sprinkle of 
nutmeg. Butter a dish in which to serve it, put in it the pieces 
of calf's head and pour over them the above mixture. Bake in 
the oven until brown, and serve the following anchovy sauce 
with it : Take a teaspoonful of butter ; when hot mix it with a 
scant teaspoonful of flour ; add gradually and stirring ah the 
while about half a pint of the liquid in which the calf's head 
has been boiled, or any other broth (water even will do). 
When well mixed add four sardines out of brine, which have to 
be well washed and bones removed beforehand. Or, if more 
convenient, add instead half a teaspoonful of anchovy paste. 
Add also one small onion, the peel of a quarter-lemon, and allow 
the whole to boil from half an hour to one hour. Put through 
a wire sieve, then add some lemon juice and a tablespoonful of 



I 



54 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

capers ; set it again on the fire, and as soon as it comes to the 
boiUng-point stir in the yolks of two eggs beaten up either in a 
httle cooking wine or cream. Serve in a boat. 

The other recipe is called calf's head en tortue. Use for 
it, we will say, the other half of the calf s head you have in 
readiness. If you wish to use the tongue as well, peel it and 
slice it evenly. Set it to get warm in some of its own liquid. 
After that prepare a sauce in this way : Melt a piece of butter the 
size of an egg, mix with it one teaspoonful of flour ; then stir 
into it half a pint or more of the liquid in which the head has 
been boiled, and which, of course, has been strained. Let it 
bubble up and stir over a moderate fire until quite smooth. 
Then add half a teaspoonful of Liebig dissolved in a httle boil- 
ing water, and the prepared pieces of the calf s head. Have 
the whites of three hard-boiled eggs chopped fine ; add them 
and a tablespoonful of capers. Put the whole on a moderate 
fire and, stirring repeatedly, allow it to simmer for five minutes 
longer. At the very last add the juice of half a lemon and a 
saltspoonful of white pepper. Stir to get it well mixed in and 
remove from the fire. Serve in a hot dish, placing the nicest 
pieces in the middle, with skin uppermost, the tongue, if used, 
in a circle next to them ; pour over it some of the sauce ; and 
serve the rest in a boat. Garnish with slices of lemon and 
parsley, or water-cress. 

To be economical you will save the tongue for a breakfast 
dish. It will suffice for two, if the calf was a large one. It is 
very nice prepared thus : After the tongue is boiled, 
dish of calf's and the skin peeled off, cut it m two lengthwise, 
"^'^^" turn the halves in sweet oil or melted butter, then 

in some fine bread-crumbs which have been mixed with a little 
salt and some minced parsley. Broil them over a bright fire 
until they are light brown. 

To make a roulade of veal, take the breast. Have your 
butcher take out the bones. Then separate the upper from 
k roulade ^^c lowcr part in such a way that both hang 

o^^*'- together and form one thin square piece when 

opened out. Lay it, inside uppermost, on a meat-board, and 



LETTER Vn 55 

dust it over with salt and pepper. Now make a forcemeat in 
the following way : Take half a pound of veal freed from fat 
and skin and mince very fine. Take also some suet, and mince 
it as fine as possible. Mix the two, and add half a teaspoonful 
of minced shallot (or onion) which previously has been steeped 
in hot butter until yellow ; also two eggs well beaten, a sprinkle 
of grated nutmeg, and a saltspoonful of salt. Mix the whole 
thoroughly and spread part of it over your veal to the thickness 
of half a finger's width. Cover this layer of forcemeat with 
oblong strips (about half an inch thick) of fat bacon, boiled 
ham or tongue, and red beets, some parsley leaves, small 
gherkins, and slices of hard-boiled eggs. Arrange all this 
tastefully as to colors and distances. Then spread over the 
whole another layer of forcemeat, which press down to secure 
the pieces underneath. Have a flat surface. Now roll up the 
meat so as to have the filling all inside. Roll it tight, sew it 
together with needle and thread, and string it around with 
twine. Take broth enough from the soup-pot to cover the 
rolled meat. Place a tight-fitting hd on the stew-pan in which 
you cook the meat, and boil it over a gentle fire for about 
three hours. When tender take it out of the liquor, put it 
between two boards, and place a heavy weight (a flat-iron, for 
instance) on top. Let it remain over night, and the next day 
it will be fit for slicing. As long as you cannot afford boned 
turkey, this is a good substitute when you have 
company for tea or luncheon. If the slices are ve^fotake 
arranged in a ring, and the centre filled either with bo^nSturkey 
a mayonnaise salad or a slightly acid meat-jelly^ 
broken up in small pieces, it makes a very palatable and at 
the same time ornamental dish. 

Mutton is easier to digest than veal, if the meat is of a young 
and well-fed animal. In boiling or roasting mut- ,, 

c5 o General re- 

ton or lamb, a bouquet of thyme and sweet ma^ks about 
marjoram should be added, which improves the 
flavor of the meat. A leg of mutton can bear even a button 
of garlic. 

1 See p. 79. 



t 



56 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

To boil a leg of mutton, crush to a coarse powder a twig of 
thyme, a bay leaf, and six black pepper seeds ; chop coarsely an 
 . , onion and a clove of srarlic ; mix the whole and 

Recipe for '^ 

boiling a leg add a teaspoonful of salt. Rub this mixture into 

the outside of the mutton, lap the latter tightly 
around with a napkin, and sew it up with thread and needle. 
Place it in a pot with a tight-fitting lid, and no more than 
cover it with boiling water. Add to the latter a teaspoonful of 
salt and the same vegetables as for soup-liquor, with the addi- 
tion of some thyme and sweet marjoram. Do not let it boil 
violently. A leg of about seven pounds ought to be done in 
one hour and three-quarters to two hours. Take the napkin 
off just before serving. A puree of white turnips or a white 
caper sauce is a fit accompaniment. 

The loin makes a savory roast. Add an onion cut in two and 
a bouquet of sweet marjoram and thyme after the roast has 
taken color. But the best roast of mutton is the 
saddle. This is the two loins without being sep- 
arated. Have the butcher trim off the flaps, the tail, and the 
shoulder-blades. It requires a brisk oven and ten to fifteen 
minutes roastinsj for each pound. Add the bou- 

T roast *-" ^ . ,  

a saddle of quct required for mutton and an onion. Peel off 

the skin which covers the top of the saddle when 
nearly done (about twenty minutes before) ; sprinkle the fat 
which remains with salt, then with melted butter, and cover it 
all over with finely sifted bread-crumbs. Now continue the 
roasting, top part uppermost, until done, when the meat ought 
to be covered with a crisp brown crust. Garnish this dehcious 
roast with small potatoes browned in butter, and small glazed 
onions,^ all of one size. Have it accompanied by green peas. 

Apply the same process to a quarter of spring 

pring am . Jamb, than which there is nothing more delicious. 

The cheapest pieces of mutton are the shoulder and the 

breast. As to the former, let the butcher take out the bones, 

which, of course, you use for soup. Put bits of bacon here 

1 See p. 125. 



LETTER VII 57 

and there over the inside of the meat, and sprinkle over it some 
salt, black pepper, minced parsley, and a little crushed thyme. 
Roll the meat up tightly and fasten it with  . , 

. Recipe for 

twine. Put it mto a stew-pan, m which has been a shoulder of 
heated a tablespoonfui of butter. Brown it 
rapidly on all sides. Then add boiling water enough to cover 
it about half. Salt but slightly, and put around the meat a few 
onions, some carrots and turnips, a bay leaf, one or two cloves, 
a bunch of parsley, and thyme. As soon as the whole comes to 
a boil, remove from the top of the stove to the oven, and allow 
it to stew there slowly until done. Place the meat on a hot 
dish and arrange the vegetables around it. Add a scant table- 
spoonful of flour to the liquor remaining in the pan. Let it 
boil for five minutes, while stirring ; taste if it needs salt, and 
pour this gravy over the meat. 

A breast of mutton you may treat in the same way, or you 
may boii it with soup vegetables and salt until tender; then 
drain it, turn it first in melted butter, and after-  . ^ 

' Recipe for , 

wards in a mixture of bread-crumbs, minced a breast of | 

shallots and parsley, salt and pepper, over which 
you sprinkle some more melted butter. Place the whole be- 
tween a double gridiron and broil it until light brown over a 
quick fire. 

Mutton chops are always best when broiled. Apply the same 
principle to them as I demonstrated in regard to beefsteak. 
If you wish them extra fine, do as follows : Broiled 
Mince a small onion, and as much as a tea- "lutton chops, 
spoonful of parsley for about four chops. Mix both with a 
scant tablespoonfui of olive oil, and rub your chops with this 
mixture. Place one upon another, and leave standing for five 
minutes. Broil them over a bright fire, sprinkling with salt and . 
pepper when done. Or in this way : Turn your chops first in f 
melted butter, and then in part bread-crumbs and part grated 
Parmesan cheese, the two mixed together. Then broil. 

The kidneys also furnish you with a good breakfast or lunch- 
eon dish. Divide them into halves, but so as to let them  
hang together. Dust over them salt and pepper, and turn them f 



58 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

well in bread-crumbs. Then broil them over a quick fire 

until light brown. Be careful not to expose them to the heat 

too long : they must be soft and juicy. Have ready 

D < ccL KT2L SX 

dish of mut- a mixture of fresh butter and minced parsley (to 

ton kidneys. i  i i i i  n  i 

which you may aaa tarragon and cives, all minced 
very fine) ; form the mixture into little balls as large as a 
pill ; put one inside of each kidney ; squeeze a few drops of 
lemon juice on each, and double up the halves. Serve while 
hot. 

I give you in all these recipes only an outline of what can 
be done with meat. You understand that it is for you to en- 
large on them, and apply the rudimentary rules to all other 
dishes on which you wish to try your skill. It is the "spirit of 
cookery," which I principally want to instil into you. 



LETTER VIII 

I am one that am nourished by my victuals, and would fain have meat. 

 Shakespeare. 

1HAVE come now to the most despised of animals  the pig, 
which in spite of all the ignominy heaped on it, lavishes on 
VIS an abundance of acceptable gifts in the shape 
of pork, ham, sausages, etc. Grimod de la Rey- remarks 
niere, in fact, calls the pig " P animal encydope- and^thrptg. 
dique par excellence^'' and in an old German 
cook-book of the XVI. century we read, " If a sow were feath- 
ered and would fly over a fence, she would be superior to all 
poultry and birds of the air." But pork of all meats is hardest 
to digest. This is chiefly owing to its toughness of fibre, which 
resists mastication, and thus causes larger particles of food 
to be conveyed to the stomach than is otherwise the case. 
There is, however, a great difference in pork according to what 
the animal has been fed on. The sweeter its food was the 
better the meat will be, and the healthier at the same time. 
Pigs fed on chestnuts are considered the best. The ancient 
Greeks ate pigs' livers only if the animals had been fed on 
figs, and wine made of honey. And the "Edda" tells us that 
the heroes in Walhalla are treated by Odin with meat of wild 
boar, who is the progenitor of the pig. All this goes to show 
how much pork, and all derived from it, has been esteemed in 
all times and ages. 

Nevertheless you would hardly treat your dinner guests with 
a dish of pork, but rather keep it for the family meal. A rib 
roast, if tender is, indeed, succulent and deli-  

. . Roasted pork. 

cious of flavor. Always roast it with an onion cat 
into halves, and a clove stuck in each half. Sprinkle plenty of 
salt over the upper crust of fat, and let it get well done, with- 

59 



60 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

out drying up the juices. Some people like a layer of brown 
bread-crumbs put over the top of the roast after it is done. 
Sprinkle over it a little fine sugar, a pinch of ground cloves, 
and lastly some melted butter. Put it once more in the oven 
to take color. A Cumberland sauce goes well with this roast. 
Recipe for Cum- To make it, pour the fat from the pan in which 
beriand sauce. ^j^g p^j.], j^^g ^^^^^ roastcd, and add to the brown 

sediment in the bottom of it half a cup of broth, a wineglass- 
ful of claret, a tablespoonful of French mustard^ and as much 
of currant jelly. Let the whole boil up, and strain through a 
fine sieve. If any fat remains skim it off the top. 

A filet or tenderloin of pork is an inexpensive piece of meat 
inasmuch as there is no waste. Take either the pair of them 
How to roast  since they are excellent for shcing and eating 
tenderloin coM  or Only One if it is lareje, which will be 

of pork. . '  ' 

sufficient for your dmner of three. It must be 
well skinned and not entirely bare of fat. Boil a cupful of 
vinegar with one small onion sliced, one slice of lemon, one 
bay leaf, one sage leaf, one sprig of thyme, six black pepper 
seeds, one clove, for five minutes. Pour it boiling hot all 
over your pork, turning it in this liquid a few times. Have a 
piece of butter the size of a walnut heated beforehand in a 
small dripping-pan, and when hot put in the filet, browning it 
quickly on all sides. Then continue to roast slowly for about 
one hour, adding a spoonful of the strained vinegar from time 
to time, to keep the bottom of the pan moist. Sprinkle with 
salt and baste frequently. A quarter of an hour before it is 
done, pour over your meat a gill of thick cream. Baste it a 
few times. This helps to make the sauce ; remove all but a 
little of the fat on it, and serve either poured over the filet or 
in a boat. 

A very economical roast is the spring or the foreloin of pork. 
Let the butcher remove the bones, and prepare the following 
e . ( stuffing : Cut two French rolls into thin slices, 

Recipe for ^ ' 

stuffed fore- pour ovcr them a cupful of boihng milk ; let soak 

a while and get cool. Then add three eggs, half 

a teaspoonful of salt, a teaspoonful of minced onion, as much 



f 



LETTER VIII 61 

of minced parsley, a slight sprinkle of grated nutmeg, and beat 
the whole until light and smooth. Fill this stuffing in the in- 
side of the meat, where the bones have been taken out, and 
secure it by sewing the edges of the meat together. Roast it 
in the usual way. 

If you wish to cook pork chops, I would recommend to 
have them well pounded on both sides, then turned in bread- 
crumbs, in an esfSf beaten up and salted, and  , 

 u 1 U C .'1 ^u  Pork chops. 

once more m bread-crumbs. ^<2///6'^ them m a 
little hot butter, shaking them frequently to prevent their scorch- 
ing. They take from twenty minutes to half an hour to get 
done, and must be of a light brown on both sides. 

A favorite with all of us is the ham, and for good reasons. 
Although in the process of curing some of its nutritive juices are 
lost, it is made fitter for digestion by means of the 

. , 1 /-I 1  About ham. 

salt entermg and softenmg the tough fibres and tis- 
sues. If not too large, a ham, even for a small family, is no piece 
of extravagance. In cool weather it will keep for a week after 
being cooked, and will help out in many ways. You know how 
nice it is when cold and shced. Served with a green salad it 
makes a nice dish for lunch or supper. It may also be served 
with a cold sauce made in this way : Take about an ounce 
of lump sugar, rub into it the outside of half an ^ sauce for 
orange and squeeze over it two tablespoonfuls of ^^^ ^^"^ 
its juice. When the sugar is melted, add to it a heaped tea- 
spoonful of French mustard, two tablespoonfuls of salad oil, 
and as much good vinegar. Mix thoroughly. Or serve with 
your cold ham the following horseradish sauce : Take two 
tablespoonfuls of sweet cream ; one tablespoonful of best vine- 
gar, half a teaspoonful of sugar, and as much of p^^. ^ ^^^ 
salt. Beat it up, and add as much grated horse- horseradish ^ 

radish as it will take to make a thick sauce. You 
may also combine these two sauces, by leaving out the cream 
and mustard. They both go equally well with cold corned beef, 
with boiled fish, and poultry. 

1 See p. 76, 



62 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

In case you wish to sen^e your boiled ham heated over, I 
propose the following way : Cut it into even slices, soak 
Boiled ham them in cold milk for about half an hour, then 

heated over. wipe them dry. Make a brown roux^ add to it 

some broth (or water if you have none), a Uttle lemon peel, a 
blade of mace, and six black pepper seeds. Let all this boil 
slowly for half an hour, when strain and add a wineglassful of 
port wine or sherry. Put the sHced ham into this sauce, place 
it over boiling water, cover it up, and let it get hot. Serve it 
in a rice-ring " dusted over with grated Parmesan cheese, if you 
choose to do so. 

You may also mince some of the lean part of your boiled 

ham, and serve it dusted over a dish of boiled macaroni ; or, 

in layers between boiled rice, and baked au gratiii 

Other ways . , i  i t i 

of using up  I.e. browned on top and served m the dish 

baked in. There are, in fact, so many different 
kinds of nice dishes to be made of ham that in mentioning 
some of them I forgot that I have not told you as yet how 
to boil a ham  which is quite important to know. Buy only 
the best of ham, and then do not soak it in water over 
How to boil night, as a good many cook-books tell you, but 

^ ^^^- have it washed and scrubbed with a brush 

in lukewarm water. Put it on the fire in cold water, which 
must cover it entirely. Have a tight-fitting lid for the pot in 
which you cook it. Let it come to a boil very slowly, then 
change the water for fresh which is boiling when poured over. 
Place the pot now where the water will not boil, but merely 
simmer. The ham is done when the skin, being lifted at the 
end, will pull off easily. It will take from four to five hours to 
cook a small ham. 

To roast a ham, cook it as above, and after the skin has been 
How to peeled off, put it in a dripping-pan with a bottle- 

roastaham. ^| ^f pj-i^ie cidcr, and place it in a moderately 

hot oven for another hour. Baste it occasionally with the 
liquor in the bottom of the pan. 

1 See p. 70. 2 See p. 73. 



LETTER VIII 63 

Speaking of ham, I am reminded that of cured food a 
boiled beefs tongue is a very good thing to have now and 
then, although it is less economical and not nearly How to 
as wholesome as ham. Beef tongue is extremely boii a tongue. 
fat, and there is the root of it, which counts in weight and is 
nearly all refuse. In boiling a tongue do as in boiling ham, 
with the one exception that a tongue is better for being soaked 
over night. If any cold tongue is left over, it will serve for a 
breakfast dish, done in the following way, given by Dumas :  

Cut your boiled tongue into very thin slices ; take the dish 
in which it is to be served, put in a few tablespoonfuls of broth 
(or a saltspoonful of Liebig) and a few drops of ^ ^^^^^^ 
vinesrar or lemon iuice. Have a mince made of fast dish of 

,,,,.. X cold tongue 

pickled cucumbers, parsley, shallot (or onion), 
chervil, some black pepper, salt, and bread-crumbs. Spread a 
thin layer of this mixture first, then a layer of sliced tongue, 
and so on, finishing v/ith the mince. Dust over the whole 
some bread-crumbs, and put in a quick oven for about ten to 
fifteen minutes, to heat through and get brown on top. Just 
before serving, moisten it with a little more broth (or water). 

I have come now to poultry, and particularly chickens, than 
which there is nothing more delicate and wholesome in the 
way of meat. I am not going here into details ^^^^^ ^ 
about drawincr, sinG^eins:, and trussing poultry. You in general, and 

,, ^ -. , n -, -I   T ^ how to buy. 

will find that descnbed in every practical cook- 
book. But I will give you a few hints, which may be valuable, as 
to making the most of the poultry you buy and of the greatvariety 
of dishes furnished by the barn-yard. When marketing, see 
that your chickens have flexible bones, that a duck's bill is not 
too hard to the touch, and that the feet are of a light yellow. 
You are sure, then, that both chickens and ducks are young. 
A young turkey has a more delicate skin than an old one ; nor 
are the flaps about its head of so dark a red. The barn- 
yard pigeons, if young, have very small heads, thick bills, a light 
skin, and a delicate yellowish down about head and breast and 
underneath their wings. An old fowl or old pigeons furnish an 
excellent broth for soup. Remember this in case of sickness. 



/ 



64 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

If you have a chicken which is not very fat, you may tie 
some thin shces of fat bacon or salted pork over its breast, and 
lay another couple of slices underneath while roasting. In re- 
spect to pigeons, squabs, and game in general, this process is 
invariably the best, since all birds lack in fat. They are best 
enveloped all around in slices of bacon, which Konig, in his 
famous "Geist der Kochkunst," calls their habit. 

If you have a very young chicken, it is best to split it down 

the back and broil it. It is also good dredged with flour and 

browned in an iron pan in some hot butter, first on 

About cook- . 1 1 , . -IT -1 

ing young the outer side, then on the mner, sprmkhng with 

salt after the former is turned uppermost. When 
done and removed to a hot platter, pour a little cream into the 
frying-pan to boil up and mix with the brown deposit in it ; 
salt it slightly, add a few drops of lemon juice, and pour over 
the chicken. Serve it trimmed with bunches of parsley, either 
fresh or fried crisp in some boiling lard. I have had the 
breasts of a large chicken served in this way for two persons, 
while I kept the rest of the chicken for stewing on another 
day. 

The flavor of a young roasted chicken is greatly improved if 
you place inside it a piece of fresh butter the size of a walnut, 
and with it a bouquet of parsley and a small onion. If you 
like, you may also add the giblets to it, sprinkled with salt. I 
must not omit to tell you that the inside of poultry, after being 
drawn, ought always to be rubbed with some salt. 

Not merely a good, but also a good-looking dish is the fol- 
lowing : Take a well-prepared chicken, put it in a stew- 

, , , pot with four ounces of washed rice, half a dozen 

A aisn of ^ 

stewed chicken mushrooms  if you Will go to this cxtravagaiice 
 a sprinkle of salt, a blade of mace, four ounces 
of butter, and enough boiling water to cover the whole. Cover 
with a tight-fitting lid, and allow to boil over a moderate fire 
until chicken and rice are tender. Add more water if needed ; 
or substitute beef broth for water, if you have it on hand, 
which will make the dish more nourishing. The liquid must 
nearly all have been taken up by the rice. Remove the mace, 



LETTER VIII 65 

and serve the chicken with the rice around it. Garnish the dish 
with an outside rim of roses of cauliflower boiled in salt water. 
A fricassee of chicken is stewed chicken of a higher order. 
The following is a good recipe for it : Divide a chicken into 
four parts, put it in a pint and a half of boiling ^^^. ^^^^ 
water, to which add a piece of butter the size of a fricassee 

, . . ^ . - of chicken. 

walnut, an onion cut in two, a few sprigs of pars- 
ley, half a bay leaf, and a teaspoonful of salt. Allow it to stew 
gently until the chicken is done, when remove and strain the 
liquor all but a little, in which you keep the chicken hot. 
Bring the strained Hquor again to a boil, when drop into it two 
ounces of butter kneaded into a ball with one tablespoonful of 
flour. Let it boil five minutes when the ball will be dissolved ; 
then beat into it the yolks of one or two eggs which have 
been mixed with a little milk. If too thick, add some of the 
broth left on the chicken. At the very last add the juice of 
half a leraon, a very little white pepper, and another piece of 
butter the size of a walnut. Stir the same vigorously over the 
fire until quite hot again, but do not let it boil. If you wish to 
make it very nice you may add some button mushrooms, or 
a dozen oysters, or some crayfish tails. But should you think 
this too extravagant, you merely add some wheels of oyster- 
plant (salsify) which have been cooked by themselves in salt 
and water. This vegetable harmonizes very well with the sauce 
and chicken. Have rice or macaroni served with it. 

In the south of Germany, and especially at Vienna, a favorite 
way of cooking young chickens is to fry them in lard. They 
are called Backhaendl (baked cocks), in true 
Viennese dialect, and are delicious. The 
haendl or cocks must not be older than two months, and well 
fed. Cut them into four parts ; first, lengthwise, then re- 
moving the spine, divide each half so as to have the breast 
and wing and second joint and drumstick each by itself. 
Take two eggs for two chickens, add to them two tablespoon- 
fuls of water and a saltspoonful of salt, and mix. Dredge the 
chickens first with flour, then turn them in the tgg, and after 
that in fine bread-crumbs. The latter must be of bread one 



I 



66 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

day old, when it will not take up fat as much as crumbs 
from staler bread. Lay all the pieces thus prepared on a 
platter, side by side, and put a deep pan on the fire with one 
pound of lard (or half lard and half butter). Heat it until a 
thin piece of bread, when thrown in, will turn light brown in 
a few seconds. Then put into it one half of the chicken, 
and shake the pan gently until the chicken turns to a rich yel- 
lowish brown, which ought to be in two or three minutes. 
Remove the chicken with a skimmer to some blotting-paper. 
Repeat the same procedure with the other half of the chicken, 
after which throw into the hot lard a handful of 

Fried parsley. , ^ ...,,, 

parsley. In one or two mmutes it will be as crisp 
as the chicken ; skim it out of the fat on to the paper. Dust 
over it some fine salt, and serve on top of the chicken. Green 
peas are the vegetable best suited to accompany this dish. 

Remnants of poultry may be done up to advantage in various 
 , , styles, either cut into small pieces and heated 

Various uses of , ' ' ^ 

remnants of in a whitc saucc, or as croquettes, or a ragotU, 

^^^ '^' or a salad with mayonnaise dressing, etc. 

A turkey you will provide but for special occasions. I think 

it worth while to give you for a trial the following, which is the 

very recipe for cooking a turkey as fancied by and served to 

the late German Emperor Wilhelm I. : Take a 

StGwsd turksv. 

deep oval pan with tight-fitting lid, large enough 
for the turkey to fit in. Heat half a pound of butter in it, and 
when hot put in the turkey. Add half a pound of ham cut in 
pieces, a plateful of sliced onion, and one pint of boiling water. 
Allow to stew slowly from two to three hours. Put the gravy 
through a sieve, and pour it over the turkey. Serve macaroni 
with it. 

The turkey drumsticks, if left over, you may serve up the 
second time " devilled." Make a cut down the side, take out 
Devilled the bones and cartilage carefully, dip in melted 

drumsticks. buttcr ; dust the inside over with salt and pepper, 

sprinkle it with lemon juice, and spread some mustard over 
the whole. Broil over a quick fire for a few minutes, and serve 
hot. 



{ 



LETTER VIII 67 

I have given you already a recipe for a duck. If you prefer 
to roast it, it is best to stuff it with a chestnut filUng. Pigeons 
you may stuff and roast : or you may fricassee them, 

11- r 1 11 1 -.TT, About a duck. 

addmg some forcemeat balls to the sauce. \v hen 
you serve them with boiled rice, proceed in the following way : 
Cut your pigeons into quarters, and saute them to a light 
brown in some butter. Then add a shoe of onion 

, , . . ^ . , About pigeons. 

mmced, the juice oi one or two tomatoes stramed 
through a sieve, salt, a httle white pepper, a bouquet of parsley, 
and a little broth (or water). Stew them, cov- pigeons 
ered up, until tender. Serve them on top of some ^'^^ ^'^" 
boiled rice, and pour the gravy over the whole. 

I add a few recipes for the stuffing of poultry. The follow- 
ing you may use both for chicken and turkey : Take two 
French rolls, soak, and squeeze dry : beat until ,^ ^ 

' ' ^ ' ^ About various 

light with two whole eggs and the yolk of one tgg. stuffing 
Mince the liver ; add a tablespoonful of minced 
onion and as much parsley, a teaspoonful of salt, a little 
ground mace, and two ounces of butter, which melt. Mix 
the whole thoroughly, and heat, but do not let it come to the 
point of boiling. To this stuffing you may add also as much 
as one pound of sausage-meat, which makes it rich, and im- 
parts a flavor in harmony with poultry. 

A chestnut stuffing for either turkey or duck is made thus : 
Take a dozen large chestnuts, boil, peel and mash them. 
Cook the liver of your turkey or duck ; mince it very fine ; | 
add a tablespoonful of minced ham, a teaspoonful of minced / 
shallots (or onion), as much both of minced lemon peel and 
salt, a very little white pepper, two ounces of melted butter, 
two tablespoonfuls of grated bread, and the yolks of two eggs. 
Mix the whole thoroughly. 

A stuffing of oysters, to which you add bread-crumbs, melted 
butter, and a little ground mace and minced parsley, is perhaps . 
the most dehcious of all stuffings for either chicken or turkey, I 
with the exception of truffles  an ingredient by far too ex-  
pensive for any sensible mortal to think of in a country like 
ours, devoid of this precious fungus. 



68 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

I will close with a stuffing for pigeons, and then release you 
for to-day. For three pigeons take one ounce and a half of 
bread, soak it in milk, and press it dry ; pour over it two ounces 
of melted butter ; add to it the minced livers of the pigeons, a 
slice of onion, and a few sprigs of parsley minced, a scant tea- 
spoonful of salt, a sprinkle of grated nutmeg, and three eggs. 
Mix well and fill it into the breasts of the pigeons from the 
neck, by means of a teaspoon. 



LETTER IX 



Thy spirit be thy guide. 

 Friedrich Von Sallet. 



THERE is one branch of cookery which I might call the flower 
of the cuUnary art. This is the making of ragotUs and their 
attendant sauces. An ordinary cook has not the 
faintest idea how to produce them; it requires artistic" s'eJ^es* 
both taste and study to achieve success in this aisoeconomi- 

-' cal purposes, 

line. I want you to devote your best mind to the 
production of 7-agouts and sauces, since they may be adapted 
at the same time to the requirements of a luxurious dinner and 
of a modest one, as I am going to show you. Suppose you 
have a remnant of chicken left, too insignificant to put on 
the table either cold or warmed up. Take it, every scrap of 
it, except the skin, and cut it in tiny pieces  squares if possi- 
ble. If the liver has been saved, so much the better ; cut it 
in tiny squares likewise, and set both aside. Now make a thick 
white sauce (of which later), which you flavor with some an- 
chovy paste as large as a pea, and a sprinkle of lemon juice. 
With this sauce you mix your meat. Then pour a teaspoonful 
of olive oil in a saucer, brush it over the inside of some scallop- 
shells (one for each person), fill the latter with your ragout^ 
which must be quite hot, sprinkle some dry bread-crumbs 
over it, and then some grated cheese. Put a few flakes of table 
butter on top of each ; place the shells in a sheet-iron pan, and 
brown them in a quick oven, which will take about five minutes. 
They must be watched, lest the ragout dry up. Serve the 
shells immediately over a folded napkin on a china dish. 

They make a nice appetizer when eaten between the soup 
and meat course ; and they furnish the best and nicest way of 
using up meat as well as fish. 

69 



70 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

Now you can take the same recipe and, for a special occasion, 
turn it into a 

Salpicon Royal.  Cut into small dice the breast of a chicken, 
some sweetbreads and mushrooms, all cooked beforehand ; 
add a bechamel sauce, in which some crayfish butter has 
been melted ; pour this mixture either into shells of pastry or 
small paper cases, and serve hot. Or, more luxurious still, 
prepare a 

Salpicon a la Conde.  Take equal parts of prepared sweet- 
breads, the reddest of beef tongue, the blackest of truffles ; cut J 
them into small dice, and moisten well with a thick white sauce ' 
flavored with lemon juice and mushroom. 

The term '' salpicon" is generally applied to a ragout fin, 

the ingredients of which are cut into fine squares. A ragoiU 

always requires a savory or piquant sauce, and 

i^^a^ncftri^"^"" mostly is composed of mixed materials, which, 

requisites of howevcr, havc to be so assorted that they blend 

a ragcut. ' ' 

harmoniously. The greatest care must be be- 
stowed on the sauce which completes the whole. It is either 
a brown or a white sauce, according to the solids used. If 
remnants of cooked beef, mutton, or venison are to be turned 
into a ragout, a brown sauce is required ; for veal, poultry, fish, 
etc., a white sauce is needed. The foundation of a sauce is 
flour and butter mixed, which is called a roux. The propor- 
tions are one spoonful of butter to one spoonful of flour. Melt 
the butter, mix it with the flour, and stir over the fire a few 
minutes only, if the sauce is to be white. Do not allow it to 
How sauces take color. For brown sauce, set this mixture on 

are marie. ^]^g back of thc stovc uutil it tums to a rich brown. 

Stir it frequently, and do not allow it to become attached to 
the bottom of the pan (one of sheet-iron is best) or to get 
black in any part. Now, to get the consistency of sauce, add 
to the roux the liquid required. Add it lukewarm and little 
by little, stirring all the while in one direction ; thus you avoid 
getting lumps. When properly thinned, stir over the fire until 
it begins to boil ; then set it on the side of the stove and allow 
it to continue boiling gently until the flour is cooked, which 



LETTER IX 71 

will be in about fifteen minutes. To keep the mixture for use 
later in the day, put it in a saucepan with tight-fitting lid, which 
you place in an open pan filled to reach three-quarters up the 
saucepan with boiling water. This you put on a place where 
the latter will keep boiling hot, but not boil. The liquid to be 
added to the roux varies as to the sauce to be made. A 
white sauce requires either a clear, mildly flavored veal or 
chicken broth, or it is made with milk and cream, sometimes 
with the addition of an tgg. A brown sauce ought always to 
be more or less piquant ; the broth used may either be of beef 
or from scraps and bones of dark meat, flavored with spice, 
onions, pickles, or other accessories of the kind. 

Professional cooks keep "stock" on hand for the making of 
sauces, but this is far too expensive a way for you and me. 
The contents of the soup-pot are all we need, and, by adding 
afterward to the above white or brown sauces the condiments 
needed to suit the kind of food they are to accompany or form 
a whole with, we can make with ingenuity as good a sauce 
without stock, as the best of professional cooks can with stock. 
A brown sauce, however, can always be improved in looks as 
well as in regard to its nourishing qualities by adding to it at 
the last moment some of Liebig's extract. 

With the plain white and brown sauce you can manage to 
produce pretty nearly any kind of sauce that you will need. 
If you wish to serve some slices left from cooked beef, mutton, 
or tongue, the following is a good recipe for a 

Brown Ragout Sauce.  Prepare your sauce in the way 
demonstrated, then add one onion, one bay leaf, one clove, 
four allspice, six black pepper seeds, a bouquet of parsley, 
summer savory or sweet basil, and continue to let it boil gently 
for half an hour longer, stirring from time to time. Strain 
through a wire sieve, and half an hour before serving add some 
lemon juice or a little vinegar, and either capers, slices of 
pickled cucumbers, or mushrooms  or, if preferred, all three 
of them. At the last you add the meat, which must be fully 
covered with sauce. Cover it up tight and place it over boil- 
ing water, where the meat will get heated, and blend with the 



7U LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

sauce without coming to a boil. Cooked meat heated over 
must never boil, or it will get tough. 

Of white sauces the bechamel is the most useful. The 
original one, invented by Louis XIV. 's famous chef, M. 
Bechamel, is a very elaborate one, of which there are many 
descendants of high and low degree. The latter, however, are 
by no means to be despised. I have, in fact, a special fond- 
ness for the following one, which I recommend to you for its 
simplicity, tastiness, and wholesome as well as nourishing prop- 
erties. 

Plain Bechamel Sauce.  Make a roux as for white sauce, 
substitute milk for broth, add one onion, a flake of mace, j 
and a bunch of parsley. Let boil for fifteen minutes, then ' 
strain. 

This is a very good sauce for poultry, sweetbread, and ham, 
and also for certain vegetables. For a ragout or a sa/picon, 
take half milk and half veal (or chicken) broth, and flavor 
with a few mushrooms instead of mace and parsley. 

I can recommend also the following 

Sauce Allemande.  Make a white sauce with either chicken 
or veal broth, add to it one onion, half a slice of raw ham cut in 
squares, a few white pepper seeds, the peel of one quarter 
lemon ; allow it to boil for half an hour, when strain and flavor 
with lemon juice. 

To this sauce, as to any other, you may add any accessory 
which serves your purpose, if you merely take care that noth- 
ing incongruous enters into your dish. I use it for a 

Mixed Ragout in a Pastry Shell {vol au vent) .  Take two 
calves' tongues ; boil them in your soup-pot. When done, 
peel the skin and trim off the roots. Prepare one or two 
sweetbreads in the following way : Wash them well, put them 
in a saucepan, cover with cold water, let them simmer  not 
boil  for one hour until they are well blanched. Meanwhile 
put water on to boil in another saucepan, and throw into the 
boiling water the blanched sweetbreads ; let them boil for a 
few minutes, removing the scum which rises ; then put them 
into cold water, and after they get cool take them out and 



LETTER IX 73 

trim off the skin and cartilage. Both tongues and sweetbreads 
are now ready for use. Cut them into slices and put them 
into the above sauce, which must be rather thick ; keep hot 
over boihng water. Add some mushrooms, either canned or 
fresh. ^ If you wish to make this ragotU first-rate, you add at 
the very last some forcemeat balls boiled in broth. Serve the 
whole in a shell of pastry, with a cover of the same, which you 
can order of a baker or confectioner, heating it in an oven for 
five minutes before use. 

You can also dress the ragoiU inside a rim of croutons. 
Take slices of stale bread, cut off the crust, shape it either in 
square, triangular, or circular pieces, throw them ^^^ 
into boiling lard until they are of a deep yellow, make a ring 

, , . - , , . of croutons, 

when remove them to a piece of blottmg paper to 
drain off the grease. Have ready a mixture of white of tgg 
and flour, by means of which you fasten the lower edges of the 
croutons to the rim of your dish (which must be slightly warm) 
so as to form an inclosure for the j'agout to be poured and 
served in. 

You may also serve a ragout in either a rice or a potato 
rim ; this is, however, a somewhat tedious process. I therefore 
prefer for a chansje to make a rim of boiled rice ,, 

f . ^ How to 

in a plain way, by boiling the rice until quite thick make a plain 
and soft, then filling it hot into a well-buttered ^"^^ ^'"^' 
ring-shaped mould made of tin. Now, by pressing the rice 
down, it can be turned out on a warm dish, and is ready at 
once to be filled with anything you please. 

I have been writing at length on the subject of these mixed 
dishes, because I consider them a very valuable chapter in 
cookery. Far from being unwholesome if composed of whole- 
some food, they, on the contrary, are apt to tempt even a 
delicate and dainty stomach, and by their nutritious contents 
to benefit a reduced system. Then, what a field for invention 
these dishes are, and v/ith what comparatively small expense 
they furnish the showiest and most palatable entrees for a 
company dinner ! 

1 See p. 96. 



4 4 LEITERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

Since I am writing on sauces, I will add here a few more 
cold sauces for serving with both cold and warm meat. They 
also have the advantage of keeping for days after they are 
made. The simplest is the 

Maitre d'Hotel Sauce or Butter.  Take four ounces (four 
tablespoonfuls) of the freshest butter and either one teaspoon- 
ful each of minced parsley and tarragon or, if the latter cannot 
be had, two teaspoonfuls of parsley. Beat the butter with a 
wooden spoon, mixing well with it the minced herbs, and add- 
ing gradually the juice of one lemon. Add a little salt if the 
butter is not much salted already  or add a flavor of anchovy 
paste, which gives an agreeable piquancy to the butter. A 
spoonful of this butter heaped on a broiled steak or fish is very 
good. It can also be used as a beautiful garnish for a dish of 
either meat or fish by putting as many small egg-shaped lumps 
of this butter as there are persons, inside of curled lettuce 
leaves ; place them here and there on the edge of the dish. 

An excellent appetizer, when desirable, is the 

Sauce Tartare.  Chop very fine two shallots, mince also 
some tarragon and chervil, and mix with one heaped teaspoon- 
ful of French mustard and the yolks of two eggs, to which add 
one teaspoonful of vinegar, one tablespoonful of oil, a little 
white pepper and salt, stirring all the time in one direction. 
If you notice that the sauce begins to curdle, add a little more 
vinegar. Taste to see whether it is sufficiently salted ; if too 
much salted, remedy it by adding a little more mustard and 
oil. 

This is Alexandre Dumas* recipe. 

A more pretentious sister to our excellent mint sauce is 
this : 

Herb Sauce {Sauce a la Ravigote),  Chop fine equal parts 
of chervil, pimpernel, water-cress, cives, parsley, and tarragon. 
Mix with them the hard-boiled yolks of two eggs, add one 
scant tablespoonful each of French mustard and oil, a teaspoon- 
ful of vinegar, some white pepper and salt, and stir for half 
an hour. 

I do not mention the sauce mayonnaise ; I will do so 



LETTER IX 75 

when I come to speak about salads. For the present you have 
quite enough matter to try your hand on. But let me advise 
you, before I close this letter, to use for your sauces always the 
best of butter ; otherwise all your trouble will be in vain. I 
have for that statement, outside of my own experience, such an 
authority as Gouffe. 



LETTER X 

Dost thou know the art 

Of butter and of lard ? 

In finger-tips canst feel 

How much pepper and salt to deal ? 

WHEN I told you about the cooking of meat by means of 
boiling, roasting, stewing, and broiling, I made no mention 
of frying, or saufnng. I kept it in store for a separate demon- 
stration. For to fry as it should be done, is not only a 
difficult process, but in regard to a rational diet, it is un- 
desirable to indulge in fried food more than occasionally. In 
case the distinction between frying and sai/^e'mg should not be 
quite clear to your mind, I will explain here that the latter 
means browning in a small quantity of fat, while 
betwi"n'^fry- thc formcr requires immersion into hot fat. Fat, 
saufe?ng which is Capable of a temperature three times as 

hot as boiling water, answers well to perform the 
urgent office of cementing at the very start the outside of 
the meat (or some other food-matter), in order to preserve 
the nourishing and juicy substances within. But the nature 
of the fat itself, which of necessity becomes a part of the food 
fried or sautetd, causes the latter to become somewhat more 
hard to digest. I would, therefore, class a friture as a 
relish, in order to distinguish it from necessary food. Of 
the two, frying and sautemg, the former is preferable, inas- 
much as the process, if carried out correctly, causes much less 
fat to attach to the object than will adhere in the slower 
process of sautevc\g. The latter, in fact, is only admissible if 
the pan is thoroughly heated beforehand, and the fat, after 
being put in it, is made so hot as to surround the food 
instantly with a sort of crust. If this were not done, the fat 
76 



LETTER X 77 

would penetrate through the pores into the inside, destroy 
the juices, and make the food unpalatable, as well as decidedly 
unwholesome. 

It is with the manner of frying, or immersing, that I wish to 
make you particularly acquainted. For some of the greatest 
triumphs of culinary art are to be rained by it. In 

1^1 1 ^ r -. How to fry. 

the first place you want a deep casserole of good 
metal, and then tlie right sort of fat. Leaf lard, and suet ren- 
dered, or half and half of each, are equally*good. Take a large 
enough quantity of it to fully immerse what you wish to fry. 
Let it melt and get hot. To know when the right temperature 
is reached, watch and see when the air above it begins 
to waver. Then take a small piece of bread sliced thin, 
and throw it into the fat. If it sizzles and takes color in 
about five seconds, immerse at once the substance to be fried. 
Brillat-Savarin calls this the " surprise," and your whole success 
depends on its taking place at the right m.oment. If your fat 
begins to smoke, that moment is past already : you will then 
have to remove your casserole with the fat from the fire, add 
some fresh lard or suet, and watch again for the exact moment. 
After the surprise is effected, you slacken your fire to prevent 
the food from carbonizing. When the friiiire turns to a 
golden brown, and rises to the surface, it is time to remove it 
with a strainer-ladle to a piece of blotting paper, which you 
place on a warm plate. All superfluous fat will enter into the 
paper and leave the friture dry and crisp. For frying you 
may use almost any kind of cooked meat or vegetable, and 
fish when raw. Cereals, if fried, have to be cooked before- 
hand, but not so farinaceous food made of dough. Some of 
the finest fiitures are croquettes, for which remnants of poul- 
try, veal, beef, fish, etc., may be appropriated. The founda- 
tion of croquettes is a thick sauce, for which take How to make 
a gill of sweet cream, butter the size of half an &gg, croquettes. 
one tablespoonful of flour, a little white pepper, salt, and a 
piece of lemon peel. I do not repeat how a sauce of this sort 
is made ; you know it already. When done, add to it, cut into 
tiny squares, whatever material you wish to use. Set it on ice 



78 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

to get cold. Then take as much as a tablespoonful of it at a 
time, mould it into pear-shaped or cylindrical forms, by rolling 
it lightly on a baking-board with your hand. After your 
croquettes are all formed, roll them in fine bread-crumbs, then 
in a beaten egg slightly salted, and once more in bread-crumbs, 
when they will be ready for immersion. Remember what I 
said about bread-crumbs apropos of fried chickens in my last. 

Croquettes of sweetbread are among the most delicate. 
Calfs brains are best fried in batter, when they are very 
good indeed. Treat them like sweetbreads/ and boil them 
with an onion, a few pepper seeds, one bay leaf, and a little 
vinegar in salt and water. Divide them into pieces as large as 
an tgg, and make the following batter : Beat over the fire 
until hot one cupful of milk, one whole egg, thei- 
ecipeo a a er. ^^^^^ ^^ auothcr tgg, half a saltspoouful of salt,/ 

and one tablespoonful of olive oil. Let it get cool, when adc^'. 
sufficient flour to make the batter thick, but not stiff. Stir; 
until smooth. The same batter also serves for fried vegetables ; 
as, for instance, roses of cauliflower, pieces of squash, etc. 
Even flowers may be fried in it. The vegetables, as I said, 
have to be boiled beforehand. As to flowers, I found it 
stated in some German cook-book, that " white roses, elder- 
berry-blossoms, and nettles," fried in batter, are very good ; 
but I will not vouch for it. I myself have eaten in Italy, while 
staying in a primitive place among the Apennines, a fritin-e of 
pumpkin-blossoms, and acknowledge that I quite rehshed it. 

There remains now for me to tell you something about that 

particular substance in the flesh of animals w^hich is called 

glue or gelatine. It is derived principally from 

out ge a ine. ^^^ tlssuc, the Cartilage or gristle, the tendons and 
bones. But the bones, skins, and fins of fish also furnish 
gelatine. It is extracted from meat or fish by prolonged boil- 
ing in water at the highest possible temperature. The latter is 
reached by preventing the steam from escaping from the pot in 
which the gelatinous matter is being boiled, and by the addition 
of salt.2 

1 See p. 72. 2 See p. 41. 



LETTER X 79 

Now, as to the use of glue or gelatin-e for nutritive purposes, 
the scholars are somewhat at variance. Some authorities hold 
that, although gelatine is rich in nitrogen (two parts 
of gelatine are equivalent to one of albumen), it is qua^nty of "'^ 
hard to digest, and, therefore, as good as useless piatmous 

o ' ' 7 D substances. 

for the organic building up of the system. Others, 
on the contrary, claim that gelatine, if it does not build up, has, 
at least, the valuable property of economizing the albuminoids 
demanded by the animal system, so that a minimum of them 
in connection with gelatine is well calculated for a time to pro- 
vide proper nutrition. These same authorities claim also that 
gelatine, because easily dissolved, is easily assimilated. In order 
not to be lost betv/een these opposing teachings, I think it best 
to be on the safe side, and follow the precept of adding to a 
dish rich in gelatine (like calf s head, etc.) a slight . . . 

" ^^ ' / o Acid acts 

acid, acting as a dissolvent. If gelatinous sub- as a dissolvent 
stances are used for a jelly, make it just stiff enough  ^^ ^ "'^" 
to stand, which will render it more palatable, and easier to 
digest, than when surcharged with them. 

To make meat-jelly or aspic, you have at your service the 
skin, nose, and ears of a calf's or a pig's head, the feet of both 
calf and pis:, the skin of pork or a boiled ham, ^ , 

* ^ 1 r Substances 

the wing-ends, legs, and feet of poultry, etc. Such yielding mate- 
a jelly v/ill enable you to produce plain dishes, as ^'^ ^^^^ ^' 
well diS plafs de goiU,  highly fanciful and ornamental dishes. It 
is used, also, for garnishing, and, when broken up into irregular 
pieces, is very effective. Meat by itself will like- jhe uses of 
wise yield up the gelatine contained in its cellular rneat-jeiiy. 
tissue, if boiled long enough for the process to take place. The 
meat in this case will be quite worthless, but the jelly will be of 
the best and most nutritious, albeit the most expensive. I 
will give you first a recipe for aspic, and later two for jelly. 

For aspic, to make it economical, take a couple of calf's 
feet, and any odd pieces of raw veal and beef, as Recipe for 
well as remnants of bones or gristle which you ^^P'^- 
may have on hand. Bring it to the fire with three pints of cold 
water and a teaspoonful of salt. Skim well, and let it boil for 



80 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

three hours. Then add to it one small celery root, one small 
onion, half a carrot, a bouquet of parsley, one bay leaf, and six 
black pepper seeds. iVllow to boil for about an hour longer, 
or until the meat of the calf's feet is ready to drop off the 
bones. Now strain it through a hair sieve, and let it stand over 
night. The next morning remove all the fat which may have 
collected on top, and test it as to its consistency. If it should 
not have jellied sufficiently, you will have to boil it a while 
longer ; if it is too stiff, add more water, and test it once 
more. To clear the jelly, dissolve it, and when nearly boiling, 
add to it the whites of two eggs, beaten to a slight foam, and 
u ^ the crushed eoCT-shells. Stir until it begins to boil, 

How to c50 O } 

clear broth thcu rcmovc it to thc side of the stove, cover it 

up, and let it remani there without boiling for 
about half an hour. It is now ready to receive whatever 
acid and additional spice ( powdered, of course) you might 
wish to add. The juice of a lemon or a sour orange will 
make it pleasantly acid. Tarragon vinegar also gives it a 
pleasant flavor. By adding spice and acid the last moment, 
their characteristic flavor will be preserved, while, if allowed 
to participate in the process of boiling, their fine aroma 
would evaporate into the air. To give your jelly a good 
color, add also at the last moment two saltspoonfuls of Liebig, 
and see that it dissolves and mixes evenly with the liquid. 
Now cover a colander with a clean napkin, place it on a bowl 
large enough to hold your jelly, filter the latter through the 
napkin, and repeat this process if the jelly is not quite clear 
the first time. 

This jelly will keep for at least a week in winter, if kept in 
a cool place. But, in case it should begin to show specks of 
mould on its surface, it may be purified and saved for use by 
melting and bringing it to a boil. The scum then rising to the 
surface will have to be carefully skimmed off, and the liquid 
poured into a clean vessel for preservation. Broken up (as I 
said before) into small lozenge-shaped pieces, aspic or meat- 
jelly is a delicious accompaniment of cold sliced chicken or 
veal and, in fact, any kind of meat. 



LETTER X 81 

A very nice dish, either for luncheon or supper, is chicken in 
jelly. To make it economical, and yet preserve all the nutri- 
tives pertaining to it, do as follows : Boil the ^^^.^^ 
chicken whole with just enough (boiling) water fo^r chicken 
to cover it. Add salt, and the vegetables and 
spice as for aspic. When the chicken is tender, remove it 
from the pot to a meat-board, cut the meat off the bones, and 
divide it into small pieces. Then take the bones, break them 
up with a cleaver, add the head and feet of the chicken, and 
put them back into the chicken broth. Let them boil for an 
hour longer, when you had better test it by taking out a spoon- 
ful, which you put on ice in a saucer. If it jellies when cold, 
you stop the boiling ; if not, you allow it to boil a while longer, 
until you obtain the desired result. Taste it now, to see 
whether salt or spice ought to be added. A slight addition of 
lemon juice is desirable, but not necessary. If your liquor is not 
muddy-looking, you need not clear it. Strain it over the pieces 
of chicken, which you place in a mould. They must be cov- 
ered and no more. After turning it out on a flat dish to be 
served, you may trim it with sprigs of parsley, lettuce leaves, 
and sHces of lemon. The choicest accompaniment for chicken 
in jelly is a mayonnaise celery or lettuce salad. 

Once your aspic is made, you may appropriate part of it for 
embedding meat of any kind, as, for instance, slices of cold 
roast beef, veal, pork filet, or any remnants which you wish to 
serve the second time in disguise. To make ^^^^^ 
these dishes more fanciful, you put your mould on make a/3/at 

^ . de gout. 

ice and fill it half an inch deep with liquid aspic. 
After this is tolerably, but not quite firm, you arrange upon it a 
pattern of either shoes of lemon, sprigs of parsley, capers or 
wheels of pickled cucumbers, pieces of cured and boiled 
tongue, slices of hard-boiled eggs, etc., according to choice 
and taste. This pattern shows when the jelly is turned out 
of the mould. Now pour some more of the liquid jelly into the 
mould, and when nearly firm, place a layer of meat well arranged 
on top of it, and so on until the mould is almost, but not quite 
full. Let it stand on ice for two hours before turning it out. 



82 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

The latter \vay, to be sure, is troublesome, and you will not 
often resort to it, but it goes to show what can be done, after 
all, with comparatively small means, if we want to make some 
extra exertion to please the guests we entertain. 

It is often convenient to have on hand something special for 
slicing down cold. For this purpose I recommend to you the 
Recipe for followiug rccipe for head-cheese : Take a calf's 

head-cheese. head, and boil it in salt and water until quite 
tender ; then take it out, and after it is somewhat cool cut the 
meat into dice. Boil in another pot four calf's feet and one 
pound of pork, in just enough water to cover the whole. Add 
one onion, one bay leaf, the peel of one lemon, a dozen black 
pepper seeds, three cloves, a sprig of tarragon, half a pint of 
vinegar, and a teaspoonful of salt. When done cut the meat 
into dice and mix with those of the head. Now filter the 
hquor in which the calf's feet and pork have been cooked over 
the meat. Stir the whole until well mixed, put it in several 
small forms, and when cold set it away for future use. 

The remaining space of this letter I will devote to the prom- 
ised recipes for meat-jelly. They are both given by Dr. Wiel. 
The following he recommends for enriching gravies and soups, 
and to eat with cold meat. He finishes by designating it as " an 
invaluable refreshment for fever-patients ! " 

Take three ounces of butter ; put in a large cooking-vessel, 
and let it melt, when add to it first one pound of lean ham 
Two recipes sUccd, thcu four pouuds of Icau, gristly beef, the 

for meaT-jeiiy. same amouut of gristly veal, and, if you should 
have it on hand, any bones or extremities of poultry. Add 
also three carrots, one yellow turnip, one celery root, three 
large onions each stuck with two cloves, a large sprig of tarra- 
gon, one teaspoonful of white pepper seeds, and a blade of 
mace. Add but httle salt (about a teaspoonful) at first, since 
the ham is salted. If not sufficient, salt can be added, but re- 
member that it cannot be taken away. Allow all this to cook 
for about half an hour, while moving the contents of the vessel 
to and fro from time to time. As soon as a light brown sedi- 
ment is noticeable in the bottom of the vessel, add cold water 



( 



LETTER X 83 

enough to cover up completely the meat and vegetables. Let 
the whole boil now uninterruptedly over a moderate fire for 
five hours. Skim well, and filter through a napkin. An addi- 
tion, at the last, of a scant tablespoonfal of Liebig increases 
the piquancy and nutritiousness of the jelly. In cold weather 
it will keep for a long while. 

I have tried this recipe over and over again, and found it 
delicious. But I have never made any more at a time than 
half the quantity, which is all that is required for ordinary pur- 
poses. 

The second recipe is Dr. Wiel's jelly for persons suffering 
with stomach complaint. 

Take four calf s feet, two pounds of beef, and an old fowl. 
Boil them for a whole afternoon in five quarts of water, to 
which add half an ounce of salt. Skim well. An hour before 
it is done add a small pike. Drain, and let get cool over night. 
Next morning take off the fat, melt the jelly, and clear it with 
the whipped whites of six eggs and the crushed egg-shells. 
When as clear as wine, filter it, and add a good half ounce of 
Liebig. Put the jelly in small moulds (or bowls) and set it 
away in a cold place. 

This makes a large quantity. For one person about a fourth 
of all ingredients is more than sufficient. 

In my next I hope to get done with meat, of which you may 
be tired already. 



LETTER XI 

Enough is as good as a feast. 

YOU are right, my friend, man cannot live by meat alone, but 
needs to complement it by juicy vegetables. Still, I want 
you to be patient for another little space, and let me tell you 
first of some more mixed dishes, wherein you have combined 
foods which complement each other, and which, therefore, as 
good as represent a v/hole dinner in themselves, containing all 
the food-matters necessary to sustain a healthy organism. They 
are invaluable where time and money have to be saved. I 
mean the combination of rice, or macaroni, with meat and 
other substances rich in albuminoids. 

You remember that rice contains 8 per cent only of albumi- 
noids, 76.5 of carbohydrates, and i of fat, to which I add here 

the volume of water, 13 per cent. Rice, in con- 
ma?ks^ibout sequence, is deficient in albuminoids, which have 

rice, and how ^q |^g replaced by food rich in them, but poor in 

carbohydrates. The ancients knew this. Ask 
your husband, and he will tell you that in the old Indian epos 
"Ramayana" there is mention made of a cousin to our rice 
pudding, dear to our grandmothers and litde children. It is 
called there ''krisharah," and was made of rice, milk, sugar, 
and cardamon seeds, boiled thick. We would hardly want to 
make a dinner of it, but what I can highly recommend to you 
for this purpose is the pilaff (or pillaw) of old Persian origin. 
It is to-day one of the best dishes you get in the Orient. 

Before I proceed to explain to you the pilaff, I have to say 

something more about rice itself and the way to cook it. We 

are favored by producing in the United States the best of all 

the different kinds of rice  the Carohna rice. Its seeds are 

84 



LETTER XI 85 

of a pure white, long and narrow, and almost transparent. The 
East India rice is only third in quality, the Italian rice being 
superior to it. The most inferior of all is the Brazilian rice. 
I advise you by all means to buy only our excellent domestic 
Carolina rice. It is not only better in taste, but also richer in 
nourishment. Now, rice before being cooked has to be washed 
in cold water at least twice, then drained, put in a china vessel 
and scalded by pouring over it some boihng water, in which it 
is to remain for about fifteen minutes ; then drain again. To 
cook it, throw it into boiling water, one quart for one quarter- 
pound of rice, and two teaspoonfuls of salt for this quantity. 
Allow it to boil rapidly for twenty minutes, then drain the water 
off and remove the rice, uncovered, to the back of the stove, 
where it must remain about fifteen minutes to get dry. In 
this way the seeds remain entire, and do not impart to the 
water their mealy substance and sweetness of taste. To see 
whether the rice is sufficiently done, take a seed and press it 
between your fingers ; if it flattens easily, the rice is fit to drain. 
Do not stir it, it would spoil the looks of it ; each seed ought 
to remain separate and intact. Thus prepared, it is ready for 
use in various ways. If you wish to serve the rice cooked 
merely as a vegetable, add to the water in which you boil it a 
piece of butter the size of half an egg for the above quantity. 

For the genuine pilaff you need rice, and either mutton or 
chicken, and you boil the rice in water only five minutes, in 
order to finish it in the iuice of the meat. There ^^ 

' The genuine 

is a great variety of recipes to choose from ; I piiaff; and a 

- , .,,-,,. recipe for it. 

give you first, because very simple, the following 
"Oriental pilaff": 

Take two pounds of mutton (either breast or loin), cut it 
into squares the size of walnuts ; put it in a stew-pan over a 
slow fire ; cover it up tightly and allow it to stew in its own fat 
until brown, adding from time to time a few drops of water to 
prevent scorching. Add pepper and salt, a little thyme, and 
one onion. Meanwhile parboil half a pound of rice, and, 
after draining it, set away to dry. Remove the mutton when 
qiite tender, by means of a skimmer, into another vessel. 



SQ LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

Keep hot and well covered. Then substitute the rice for the 
meat, and let it stew slowly until done and saturated with the 
juice and fat of the mutton. Serve on a hot dish, the rice first 
and the meat on top of it. 

This same recipe may be followed, by taking chicken instead 
of mutton, with this difference, that the chicken is browned 
first in butter, then stewed by covering it with water, and that 
the thyme is omitted. 

Of all the many variations on the same theme, I give you 
the following one as well worth trying. It is by M. Casimir, 
chef of the Maison d'Or of Paris, and is called "Turkish pilaff" : 

Take a chicken, divide it into pieces, stew it with butter, 
some chopped onions, thyme, and bay leaves. When it is of a 
Various other dccp ycUow, add a quarter-pound of well-washed 
recipes for pilaff. Carolina ricc. Put it over a slow fire, and allow 
the rice to swell and absorb the chicken broth. Add some 
salt, pepper, a pinch of cayenne, and nutmeg. Cut a few par- 
boiled tomatoes into dice, and add them also. Moisten the 
pilaff with good veal consomme and allow the whole to stew 
for twenty minutes longer. Add a piece of good butter and a 
tablespoonful of veal suet, then take out the pieces of chicken 
from under the rice, heap the pilaff on a dish, and put the 
chicken on top. 

You will notice that here the rice is called " pilaff " aside 
from the meat. This agrees with my recollection of the pilaff 
we used to have served at Athens, which, being in close prox- 
imity to Turkey, is half Oriental in its customs and habits. 
Our pilaff consisted of rice heaped up, dry and yet moist, and 
having the aroma of the meat broth in which it had been 
steeped. It was besides highly colored a deep orange hue, 
which seemed to be the combined effect of tomato and saffron. 
And this puts me in mind of a recipe for ^' le pilau'' in verse, 
by Mery (I found it in Monselet's "Gastronoraie "), which he 
ends by saying :  

"Add last of all, to perfume and color the rice, 
The finest saffron  then of a truth you will have 
A pilaff for Mahomet in Paradise ! " 



LETTER XI 87 

Based on the same principle and similar to the pilafF is the 
Italian rice dish called I'isotto. 

After the rice has been properly scalded and dried, put it on 
the fire with a piece of butter until it begins to turn slightly 
yellow. Then add to it, little by Httle, some Recipe for 
chicken broth flavored with onion. Wait between '"'^"^' 
each addition of broth until the rice has taken up every drop 
of what has been put on already. Continue this until the rice 
is sufficiently done and fully saturated with the meat-liquor. 
Then mix it with bits of poultry, particularly liver, or whatever 
else of suitable accessories you wish to use. Serve it heaped 
up in a dish and dust over it some grated Parmesan cheese ; or 
you may also mix some of the cheese with the rice at the last 
moment. It always looks well to cut the meat in dice for this 
dish. It is excellent also made with pigeon or sweetbread, 
or both sweetbread and chicken. You may also add to the 
chicken, boiled ham and mushrooms cut either in little squares 
or narrow strips, and then call your rice a la Milanaise. The 
most luxurious way would be to add bits of truffles. 

I return, however, to daily common sense, and give you a 
plain recipe, in case you have some ham left over, and wish to 
use it in a new shape. It is called baked rice. 

Take some boiled rice, let it get cool ; mix it with a table- 
spoonful of melted butter, one or two eggs well-beaten before- 
hand, some boiled ham chopped fine, and some Recipes for 
grated cheese. Put the whole in a buttered form, '^^^^'^ ^'^- 
dust over it some more cheese, and bake it in a good oven. 
After about fifteen to twenty minutes, try with the clean straw 
of a broom, which you stick into the middle of your dish, and 
see whether it comes out without anything adhering to it. If 
so, the egg is done ; and when the tgg is done, your dish is 
done. 

You may prepare the above in a still simpler fashion thus : 
Take one quarter-pound of rice, which you boil with a piece of 
butter, and a small onion stuck with one clove. When done 
and dry, remove the onion, and mix the rice by means of two 
silver forks with six ounces of boiled ham, either chopped or 



88 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

cut in little squares (or narrow strips). Mix just before serv- 
ing, set it in the oven for five minutes in order to heat it over, 
and heap it on a hot dish. 

The giblets of poultry, especially the liver, harmonize well 
with boiled rice steeped in butter. They will have to be 
minced, and then mixed with the rice. To vary, you may 
either moisten your rice with tomato sauce, or have the sauce 
sen'ed with the rice and giblets separately. 

There are more recipes I might give you, but I will rather 
leave it to your ingenuity to improve on the foregoing, and 
invent your own variations, in order to devote the remaining 
portion of m.y letter to macaroni, which is as useful in nour- 
ishing, if not quite as digestible, as rice. The best macaroni 
-, , comes from Italy, where it originated and is the 

General re- ' ' '-' 

marks about national dish. The best macaroni, again, in 

Italy is the Neapolitan. I have heard it said 
there is something in the quaUty of the flour raised in Italy which 
makes the Itahan macaroni so superior to that made in other 
countries. Whether this is true or not I do not know, but it is 
a fact that the French and German macaroni does not compare 
with the Italian, and that there is none superior to the Neapoli- 
tan. It is not even higher-priced than its imitations, when 
bought of one of our Italian grocers. Its percentage of car- 
bohydrates is 76.5, the same as rice, while it is slightly richer 
in albuminoids, containing 9 per cent. In fat it is poorer, 
having only 0.5 per cent. Its percentage of water is the same. 
(13.0) as rice. On account of the lack of fat it is even more 
in need of butter and cheese than rice is. The cheese, espe- 
cially, heightens the nutritive quality of macaroni, by adding 
the casein to its floury substance, ^a. Reyniere, in his famous 
" Almanac of the Kitchen," says that macaroni is one of the 
most nutritious enfreme/s, if neither butter nor cheese is spared. 
Then he adds, that if one must needs be economical he may 
take of Swiss cheese and Parmegiano (Parmesan cheese) half and 
half, since only the keenest gourmets will notice this stratagem. 
When I have macaroni to accompany a roast of beef I use 
cheese but moderately, since the meat supplies abundantly the 



LETTER XI 89 

lacking albuminoids. I prepare it in this case in the plain 
way I learned in Italy when I was young. But first of all I 
have to tell you how to boil the macaroni, be- How to 
cause a great deal depends on this. The cook- '''' ^^^a-^o"'- 
books generally tell you to boil it for fifteen or twenty min- 
utes, but I have found that this leaves it tough and raw in 
taste; nor is it the length of time it is boiled in Italy. 
Have plenty of water in a deep pot (two quarts for half a 
pound), add salt enough to have the water taste, let it come to 
a sharp boil ; then put in your macaroni,  which you break 
in pieces as long as you like,  and see that the boihng takes 
place again quickly, and continues without interruption until 
it is done, which will be in not less than three-quarters of an 
hour, if the macaroni is of the large-piped kind ; if of the 
thin kind called spaghetti it will be done in slightly less time. 
I have for this as good an authority as Dumas on my side. 
To test it you have to try a piece of the macaroni between 
your fingers ; if it mashes easily, it is done ; you can also tell 
by the taste. Do not let it boil too long, else it will give its 
best nutritives to the water, getting reduced to an ahnost worth- 
less paste. For the same reason never wash it before boiling. 
As soon as done, drain on a sieve, and use at once. There 
are ever so many ways in which to serve it, each one more 
appetizing than the other. Macaroni presents, in fact, an 
open field to an inventive genius. Proof of this is that such 
creative spirits as Dumas, Rossini, and others, bestowed their 
tender cares on macaroni, and were as proud of their successes 
in that Xvhq as of their masterpieces in literature and music. 
You are waiting, however, for my '' Itahan recipe for plain 
macaroni " :  

After it is boiled and drained put a layer of macaroni 
in a deep dish, heated beforehand ; sprinkle with browned 
butter, and then with cfrated cheese : add another ,, ,. 

' o -' Italian 

layer, sprinkle with butter and cheese, and con- recipe for 

.,  , . . , T-^ macaroni. 

tmue until all the macaroni is used up. Do not 
cover the dish, and serve at once. The proportions are gen- 
erally two ounces of cheese and a quarter-pound of butter for 



90 LETTERS TO A YOUXG HOUSEKEEPER 

half a pound of macaroni ; but you may take less of butter 
and cheese if you choose. Simple as this recipe is, I have 
rarely found a cook who could prepare the dish as it should 
be. There is judgment required to get the right proportions of 
macaroni, butter, and cheese. If you have not got them in 
your hands and eyes, no recipe can teach you. If to accom- 
pany veal or poultry, which is less nutritious than beef, it is 
best to have a '' macaroni with gravy " (a/ sugo). 

After the macaroni is ready for use, return it to the pot 
and add a meat gravy, which is quickest made by reducing to 
about a cupful (by sharp boiling) some broth made of a slice 
each of beef and veal, a few scraps of ham, and a bouquet of 
herbs, one onion, one clove, and a few pepper seeds. Shake 
the macaroni until it is thoroughly moistened with this gravy ; 
then serve in a hot dish, accompanied by grated cheese. 

If a sufficient quantity of a dish of macaroni is left over, 

you will do well to serve it for luncheon the following day in 

this way : Take one-half can of tomatoes and put 

A luncheon them ou to boil with one saltspoonful of salt, a few 

dish of 

macaroni black pcppcr sccds, a bouquet of parsley, and one 

sa'uce. ^ small ouion stuck with one clove. Let boil for 

fifteen minutes, then add a heaped teaspoonful of 
butter which you have mixed with a teaspoonful of flour and 
formed into a ball ; allow to boil until this is dissolved, which 
is sufficient time to cook the flour. Now pass the whole 
through a wire sieve, and take of it what you need to moisten 
well your macaroni. Heat the sauce over again, then add the 
macaroni. If the latter is in a lump it wiU fall apart when 
getting warm in the sauce. Do not let it boil, but set it covered 
up on a hot place until thoroughly heated through. The tomato 
sauce which is left will keep for several days, and is very useful 
also as an addition to either mutton, chicken, rice, or a soup. 

I intended to devote this single letter to rice and macaroni, 
but I see how unjust to my theme I was ; I have only begun on 
the latter, and my time is up for to-day. Still, I consider it so 
important a subject, and I have such delicious recipes in store 
fur you, that I will venture to crowd them into my next. 



LETTER XII 

La decouverte d'un mets nouveau fait plus pour le bonheur du genre 
humain, que la decouverte d'une etoile. 

 Brillat-Savarin. 

THERE are accords and discords in the composition of 
human food. As to macaroni, there is a striking harmony 
in its union with the sweetest of butter and the spiciest of 
Parma cheese. Now add to these the white meat and Hver 
of chicken, and fresh mushrooms ; moisten the whole with a 
tomato sauce, and you will have almost an ambrosial symphony. 
In this strain, at least, the praises are sounded of the dishes 
of macaroni the great Rossini used to have served to his en- 
thusiastic guests. He, however, when asked about the secret 
of his culinary composition, was said to be mute " like Jupiter 
Olympus." Why macaroni should have such great attractions 
for musical genius I cannot tell, but we learn also that La- 
blache, the great singer, was an expert in macaroni, and that 
he took his secret with him to the grave. Then there was 
Isouard, the composer, who invented the stuffed macaroni 
pipes, and who used to prepare with his own hands the stuff- 
ing, which consisted of beef suet, venison, goose liver, truffles, 
and oysters. Rossini, however, it appears, was not always as 
close-mouthed as stated, for, if we are to beheve " Mile. Fran- 
Qoise," she is in possession of a recipe in Rossini's own hand- 
writing for a dish of macaroni of which she partook at his 
villa at Passy, in company with Auber and Meyerbeer. I give 
you this recipe here as pubhshed in her ''One Hundred Rec- 
ipes." It is called stufato a rifalienfie, with macaroni. 

Cover the bottom of a stew-pot with half a pound of 
chopped bacon ; when melted, brown in it four to five large 
onions chopped fine. This done, remove the onions with a 

91 



92 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

skimmer, put them in a teacup, and fill it up with hot water ; 
Recipe for thcu sct asldc. Take from four to five pounds of 

enneXhh^^"' ^he rouud of beef, pound it well on all sides with 
macaroni. ^ woodeu mallet, and lard it with square strips 

of bacon half an inch wide, which have been turned over and 
over in a mixture of salt, pepper, three cloves powdered, and a 
minced clove of garlic. When thus prepared, put the beef into 
the hot fat left in the stew-pot, and roast it uncovered on the 
top of the stove, slowly for two hours. It must be of a nice 
brown all over. Then add to the meat the onion water, a 
pound of the knuckle of veal, and one cupful of thick tomato 
sauce ; cover the pot with a sheet of paper, and then with the 
pot-lid, and allow it to continue to stew very slowly for four 
hours longer. Meanwhile boil your macaroni (we will say 
half a pound) in salted water ; drain and serve in layers, each 
of which you cover with part of the gravy left in the stew-pot 
after the meat has been taken out and the fat removed, and 
with plenty of grated Parmesan cheese. Meat and macaroni 
are, of course, served together. 

I give you now the recipe of Alexandre Dumas for " mac- 
aroni a la vienagere " (of the good housewife) : Boil your 
 . , macaroni for three-quarters of an hour in salted 

-Recipe for ^ 

macaroni a la Water with a piccc of butter and an onion stuck 
menagere. ^^.^j^ ^ clovc. Drain wcll, put it in a casserole 

with a little butter, plenty of grated cheese, half Gruyere and 
half Parmesan, a sprinkle of nutmeg and coarsely ground pepper, 
a few teaspoonfuls of cream, and allow the whole to saufe for a 
couple of minutes ; then serve. 

For " macaroni au grating'' fill a buttered dish with the 
above macaroni, dust over it some sifted bread-crumbs and 
Macaroni somc grated cheese, and put it in the oven for fif- 

au gratin. ^^^^ minutcs to get light brown on top. Serve in 

the same dish. This is also Dumas' recipe. You can improve 
it by adding some boiled ham chopped fine. 

If you have some meat-liquor to spare, you can enrich both 
the flavor and nutritiousness of your macaroni by using the 
broth instead of water. In that case you put it first in salted 



LETTER XII 93 

water and allow it to boil for ten minutes. Then you drain 
and put it into the boiling broth, which ought to be no more 
than sufficient to be absorbed by the macaroni at the time it 
is done. Shake it occasionally to prevent its getting attached 
to the bottom of the pot. 

Cook it in this way for preparing the following dish : Have 
ready soaked for a couple of hours half a cupful of dried 
mushrooms (which are to be found at the Italian Another Italian 
groceries), and boil for fifteen minutes in the dish of macaroni, 
same water it has been soaking in. Use some chicken 
broth for boiling half a pound of macaroni called spaghetti, 
until properly done in the above way. Take the giblets of a 
chicken, which you have cooked previously with an onion, six 
pepper seeds, and one clove ; chop them fine, as well as some 
small remnants of chicken meat, if you should have it. Make 
a tomato sauce of about half a canful, and have it hot. Add a 
piece of good butter, size of an ^gg, to the cooked spaghetti; 
mix it thoroughly ; then add the mushrooms and a few table- 
spoonfuls of the water in which they have cooked ; next add the 
chopped meat and one ounce of grated Parmesan cheese ; and 
lastly the tomato sauce, of which you stir into the whole just 
enough to moisten and bind it sufficiently. Place it in the 
oven with the door open for about ten minutes, then serve in 
a deep dish previously heated. This is quite a meal in itself, 
and very good. If you have it the day after you dined on a 
chicken, you will find this dish a very economical one. Ap- 
propriate the bones and giblets to furnish you with the broth 
for the macaroni, and then stomach, heart, and liver, with 
some remnants of the meat, are ready at hand for your needs. 
I will add, lest you should not know, that while it takes an hour or 
more to cook the stomach and heart of a chicken, the liver will be 
done in five to ten minutes. More cooking would make it tough. 

I call the above macaroni a la viilanaise ; it is, however, a 
recipe of my own, concocted from hearing enthusiastically 
described a similar dish served at an Italian restaurant. I 
have made it a number of times, and have been always success- 
ful in pleasing whoever happened to dine at my table. 



f 



94 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

I now will give you a recipe for a macaroni pie for five 

persons : Boil half a pound of macaroni in salted water ; 

drain : mix with five ounces of raw pork chopped 

Macaroni pie. ^ - r ^   

line, five ounces of raw ham cut mto tmy squares, 
one ounce and a half of grated Parmesan cheese, and two 
ounces of melted butter in which a teaspoonful of minced 
shallot (or onion) has been sa/z/c-ed until yellow. Take a deep 
pie-dish, butter it and dust it over with fine cracker-crumbs. Line 
this dish with puff-paste, and fill it with the above after mixing 
it well. Cover the whole with puff-paste, and bake in a moder- 
ately hot oven from one hour to one hour and a half. A gill 
of cream added to the macaroni just before putting it inside 
the crust, is a good addition. After the pie is baked turn 
it out on a hot dish, and serve either with a tomato or a 
white sauce. 

An equally good and rather simpler recipe for baked maca- 
roni is the following : Boil half a pound of macaroni in salted 

water : drain, and let it get cool. Meanwhile, 

Baked macaroni. . , T . 

take four ounces of butter, beat it to a cream, add 
very gradually, stirring continuously in one direction, two 
whole eggs, a gill of thick cream slightly sour, half a cupful of 
cooked ham chopped fine, a saltspoonful of salt, half a tea- 
spoonful of minced onion, two tablespoonfuls of grated cheese. 
Last of all add the cooked macaroni. Pour this into a but- 
tered baking-dish and bake half an hour. Turn out and serve. 
A dish for Any portiou of it left over may be cut into thick 

luncheon. sliccs ou the followiug day, and sau/eed a light 

brown. It makes a nice dish for luncheon, especially when 
served with tomatoes or green salad. 

To beheve an Italian enthusiast on macaroni, it is the most 
difficult thing in the whole art of cookery to produce a dish of 
perfect macaroni. He exclaims, *' If you only knew what 
juices of meat, pii7'ees of tomato, delicate creamy paste, and 
what point of cooking, what constant watching and minute 
care this complicated dish exacts, you would never resort to 
those piteous counterfeits which bring discredit on the French 
cuisi?ie  the first one of the whole world ! " 



LETTER XII 95 

I quote this, not to discourage, but rather to spur you on, 
and show what cuHnary genius may accomphsh in any country 
in the world, whether in France, Italy, or America. 

In conclusion to my lessons on rice and macaroni, I have to 
say something special in regard to mushrooms, the flavor of 
which is essential for the production of a dish of About 
either when of the highest order. Mushrooms, if mushrooms. 
not found sprouting wild, are the product of painstaking cult- 
ure and are correspondingly expensive to buy. They are 
light, however, in weight, and a quarter of a pound will be 
sufficient for your purposes. The cultivated mushrooms are 
inferior to the wild ones in flavor and aroma, but they have 
this great advantage, that you can be sure they are genuine, 
while in gathering them in copse or field, you are always 
in danger of confounding them with poisonous fungi, unless 
your botanical knowledge and experience are a sufficient 
safeguard. There are a large number of eatable fangi growing 
wild, and their flavor is in most cases particularly spicy and 
agreeable. But in our country we only know the mushroom, 
which is one of the most delicate of eatable fungi. When 
I was in the mountains of Thuringia, Germany, in summer 
time, some little peasant girls came to offer me for sale several 
kinds of strange-looking fungi, which they said were very good 
to eat. On my asking them how they came to know that they 
were not poisonous, they replied : "We learn that from our 
schoolmaster ; he teaches us. He shows us which are the 
good and which the bad ones." My trust in the schoolmas- 
ter's teachings, and the intelligence of the pupils, did not mis- 
lead me ; every one of these fungi was good and wholesome. 

The wild mushroom {^Agai-icus campestris) is apt to sprout 
up suddenly after a warm shower on meadows where cattle, 
and especially horses, have been pasturing. They also appear 
sometimes on the grassy bottom of a woodland, where it edges 
out toward the open field. The mushroom comes up like a 
little white ball, or button, and is at its best before it grows up 
to have much of a stalk, which will be in a very short time, 
since in the course of a day it passes through all the stages 



96 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

from childhood to old age. It is all over white at first. Later 
on, a white skin, ringed around the upper part of the stalk, 
frees itself from the edge of the vaulted top, or button, and 
the latter shows a lining of pinkish scales, which become 
darker and at last black. As the mushroom grows older, the 
outside of the top gradually spreads and flattens out. Its sur- 
face is silky to the touch, and sometimes is covered with tiny, 
hardly perceptible scales. The flesh of the stalk and top 
is of a solid texture and exhales a peculiarly agreeable odor.^ 
There is a toadstool, Agaricus 7nuscarms, and a globular agaric 
very similar to the mushroom, which are both poisonous. It is 
said that both an onion and a silver spoon will turn black if 
cooked with poisonous fungi ; but I am afraid this is more of a 
legend than of truth. 

The danger of confounding the poisonous and the eatable fungi 
is so much the more to be regretted, since the latter are not 
merely highly palatable, but also very nourishing. They have, 
in fact, pretty much the same nutritive properties as meat. 
On an average, they have as much as 3 to 8 per cent of pure 
nitrogen, besides being rich in alkalies and phosphoric acid. 

The canned mushrooms, which come either in tin or glass, 
are not to be compared with the fresh ones. The most deli- 
How to cook cious way to cook the latter is to put them in a 
mushrooms. sauccpan witli a little butter, a taste of vinegar, an 

onion halved, a few pepper seeds, a little salt, and to let them 
stew for just five minutes. They must be served at once, with 
all their juice. If they are to be added to a sauce, they may 
be done in the same way ; and be sure to add their strained 
liquor likewise. 

I have, however, not told you as yet how to prepare the 
mushrooms for cookinoj : Peel off carefully the 

How to pre- ..... . , , . , , 

pare mushrooms thm. Silky skui covcrmg them on the outside, and 
or coo mg. scrapc away with a small knife or teaspoon the 

scales visible underneath the top. Now, since mushrooms are 

1 The stalk, which must never be hollow, is eaten as well as the cap when 
young, but had better be omitted after old age has set in. If the mushroom 
has become wormy it is not fit for use. 



LETTER XII 97 

a luxury, we must make the most of them on those rare 
occasions when we indulge in purchasing them. Therefore, 
take the skins and scrapinsrs, wash them in cold 

... 1 J 1  , -1 What to do 

water, dram them, and dry them either m the sun with the skins 
or in the oven after the fire gets low, and put ^" scrapings. 
them away either in a clean paper bag or a glass jar. They 
will serve as a mushroom flavoring for soups, sauces, ragoiits, 
etc. Soak them in water over night before you use them, and 
then simmer them in the same water for about an hour. 
Strain, and use the water only, which will be of a rich brown 
color. 

Of the truffle, which is the costhest of all fungi, I have not 
much to say, because it is in reality out of the reach of people 
Hke you and me. Nor need we care : for the 

rrt 1-11 11 1 About truffles. 

truffles, which have to be brought to our country 
from over the ocean, are generally of a very poor and adulter- 
ated kind. Truffles grow as much as one foot deep underground 
in France, Italy, and Germany, where sometimes dogs and some- 
times pigs are used to " hunt " them up. Those of Perigord 
in France are considered the best. The recipes say, cook 
them in wine, or in champagne, Brillat-Savarin calls the truffle 
le diamant de Li cuisine, and, to hear him and others, you might 
think that a pheasant and even a turkey are not fit to be eaten, 
unless stuffed with this precious growth. 

Have I been digressing too much ? Or will you charitably 
consider this little deviation as my introduction to the vege- 
tables, of which you will think it high time to speak ? 



LETTER XIII 

'Twas thought one hundred years ago 

Good food for pigs (and that was all), 
But now the gentry love them so, 

The big, and eke the small. 

 German Folk Song. 

OUR forefathers, the Anglo-Saxons, knew in the dark ages 
that vegetables by themselves are poor food. They 
liked them best accompanied by milk, butter and cheese  how 
correct the guide of instinct ! In our enlightened times we 
have sure knowledge that vegetables are not able to nourish 
man, unless complemented by other foods which contain what 
they "lack. On the other hand, also, vegetables are neces- 
sary in connection with animal substances, since they furnish 
the acids, the alkalies, and mineral matters of which the latter 
contain but a scant measure. Vegetables are, in fact, indispen- 
sable to a healthy diet. Their mild acids act as a dissolvent 
on the albumen, often so hard to digest in its sohd form, i.e. 
after beinsr cooked ; and orreen vesretables in 

The value of ^ . . 

vegetables their cooUug and refreshing effect are invaluable 

as a part of our daily fare. Last, but not least, 
they are pleasing to the eye, as well as to the palate, since with 
their gayer colors they are apt to relieve the sober hues of the 
meats. Therefore, we may gladly be content with their pov- 
erty in albuminoids and carbohydrates  which is accentuated 
by their enormous percentage of water  as long as we do 
not neglect to complement them by those nutrients they lack. 

Of all vegetables, those styled pulse (shelled beans, dried 
peas, lentils) are the most nutritious^  so much so that they 
furnish with very slight additions all that is needed to nourish a 

1 See p. 22. 



LETl'ER XIII 99 

person. In their unripe state we know them as string-beans 
and green peas. Lentils, on account of their indigestibiUty, 
we will not take into account here. 

Next to them in rank, but indeed far inferior, come potatoes. 
They are, in reality, as " feeders " not the cheap food they are 
commonly thous-ht to be. This is chiefly owinej 

, . % * ^ . .  About potatoes. 

to their large percentage of Avater, i.e. refuse. 
They contain 75.5 per cent of it. You see, it leaves but little for 
the food-matter, which consists of 2 per cent albuminoids, 20.7 
per cent carbohydrates, and no fat at all. This poor showing ac- 
counts for the immoderate use of tea or coffee among the poorer 
classes who feed on potatoes. Their craving for the lacking 
nourishment leads them instinctively to make up for it in the 
best way they can. You will know from this, that potatoes 
are not worth their money, unless they are accompanied by 
that kind of food which supplies the nitrogen they are 
devoid of. Yet despite all this, potatoes are a general favor- 
ite on our tables, and their prosaic nature does not prevent 
their being transformed into a variety of very nice dishes. The 
chapter on potatoes in the literature of cookery is quite a volu- 
minous one, but I intend chiefly to tell you how to treat pota- 
toes in boiling, roasting, and steaming, and then to give you a 
few nice recipes not commonly known. You would smile, very 
likely, at my wanting to teach you how to boil potatoes  
"such a simple affair"  if you had not complained that your 
potatoes were not always what they should be, sometimes 
watery instead of dry, and then again soapy rather than mealy. 
Even poor potatoes can be made to be the proper thing if 
properly cooked. Only you must know how. 

To boil potatoes, wash them very clean through several 
waters ; any dirt remaining will enter into the potato through 
the medium of the water. Wash them only just How to boil 
before boiling them. Cut away an inch wide of p^a^es. 
the skin around the middle of each potato ; this facilitates the 
escape of their poisonous substance called solanine, which is 
next to the inside of the skin, and is most hurtful in potatoes 
not entirely ripe, or in those sprouting toward spring. It is 



100 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

this poison which causes the obnoxious smell of the water in 
which potatoes have been boiled. Although they get done 
sooner by being put on to boil in cold water, it is advisable to 
put them into hot, or boiling water, because it saves as much 
as possible of their small amount of nitrogenous substance. 
Boil them in plenty of water and keep the steam in by covering 
the pot tightly. Add some salt after they are half done. They 
need a half-hour's boiling. Try them by sticking in a fork ; if 
soft all through, remove them at once ; if you allow them to 
boil longer than needful, they will take up more water than they 
need to soften them and will get watery. Pour off all the 
water and put them, with the pot-lid slightly to one side, on a 
hot place for a short while to get entirely dry. Serve them at 
once in a folded napkin. Another way to boil potatoes is to 
peel the potatoes, have them very clean, put them in boiling 
water, salted, and cover them tightly. They will be done in 
about twenty-five minutes. Pour the water off at once ; do as 
before to have them dry. 

To steam potatoes, peel them, and when very clean put them 
i^Q^^g in a colander over boiling water; cover tightly 

steam potatoes. ^^,[^^1. a lid and Icavc them until done. 

To bake potatoes, wash them very clean, dry them with a 
towel and lay them in a good oven. They will need about one 
How to bake ^^'^^^ to get douc. By baking them the water 
potatoes. evaporates, and you get all the nutriment they 

contain. They are also the most wholesome, since in baking 
a part of their starch is already turned into sugar, and thus 
some of the work to be done by digestion is performed before- 
hand. 

For mashed potatoes, take potatoes boiled as in second 

recipe ; add a good-sized piece of butter, some salt, if needed, 

and while mashinGj them, a little hot cream or 

A few van- "-^ . , , 

eties of mashed milk froui tuTie to tunc. \\ ork them over and 
potatoes. ^^^^ ^^.^j^ ^j^^ masher until quite smooth. If you 

take cream instead of milk, you will need less butter. A very 
wholesome variety is made with the addition of green herbs : 
Take one half of spinach leaves, the other half equal parts of 



LETTER XIII 101 

sorrel, chervil, parsley, and tarragon (the latter is optional) ; par- 
boil them with a little good broth, but so that they keep their 
green color. Then chop them, taking care to save their juices, 
and mix them into your mashed potatoes, in which you omit 
cream or milk. Another variety is the following : Press your 
mashed potatoes through a colander into the dish they will be 
ser\'ed in. They are called a la neige. IMashed potatoes 
ought always to be served at once, but most particularly the 
latter kind. 

If you have boiled potatoes left over, a very nice way to use 
them a second time is this : Grate them into the dish they are 
to be served in, put bits of butter here and there, Mashed pota- 
and dust a little fine salt over them; then put toes au ^rai/V?. 
them in a hot oven for five minutes. 

New potatoes, boiled either in their skins and then peeled, or 
peeled first and then boiled, are excellent served with a plain 
bechamel sauce ^ poured over them. Or chop . , ,, 

 '^ A few other 

some parsley, heat it in some melted butter, and varieties of po- 
when it bubbles up take it off the fire and pour it 
over the potatoes ready for serving. 

For roasted potatoes, take either small potatoes, raw, of an 
even size, and peel them ; or scoop little balls out of large 
potatoes, with the help of a potato-cutter. Pour ^ow to roast 
boiling water over them, cover them up, and leave potatoes on 

1 ^ r  rr^i 1  1 top of StOve. 

them standing tor ten minutes, i hen drain them, 
put them in a large colander, and put them on a hot place till 
they are dry. Put butter in a pan,  about two ounces for one 
quart of potatoes,  and when very hot put in the potatoes, one 
beside the other. Sprinkle some salt over them. Cover them 
up at first, giving them a toss from time to time. When get- 
ting too hot, leave off the cover, shake them frequently, and 
turn them when brown on the under side. Finish them on a 
slow fire. It will take from one to one and a half hours be- 
fore they are done. If )'ou wish them glazed, dust some fine 
sugar over them after they are tender. These potatoes are 
very nice for garnishing. 

1 See p. 72. 



102 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

From the untold number of recipes I know of, I select the 
following ones : 

Potato Pudding with Cheese.  Take one quarter-pound of 
potatoes boiled in their skins, peel them, and, when they are 
entirely cold, grate them ; add one ounce of grated cheese, one- 
half ounce of butter, and one-half pint of milk. Put all this 
in a stew-pan, and stir over the fire until it turns into a stiff 
mixture. Then pour it into a deep dish, let it get cold ; add 
the yolk of one egg one scant tablespoonful of cream, and 
beat the whole for a while in one direction. At last add the 
stiff snow of the white of an egg. Butter a mould, dust it over 
with fine cracker-crumbs, fill into it the above, and bake in a 
slow oven. Serve as soon as done. 

Potato Croquettes.  Take butter the size of an egg, beat it 
to a cream ; add gradually two eggs, one teaspoonful of flour, 
one saltspoonful of salt, and six heaped tablespoonfuls of 
grated potatoes which have been boiled and then peeled. 
Form this mass into sausage-shaped croquettes the size of a 
large thumb ; turn them in beaten egg, then in fine bread or 
cracker-crumbs, and fry them in plenty of hot lard until of a 
golden yellow. 

Potato Noodles.  Take six large potatoes, boil them, peel 
them, and place them while hot on a baking-board ; mash 
them with a rolling-pin. To one heaped soupplateful of them 
add a good sprinkle of salt, two tablespoonfuls of flour, and 
one egg. Make a stiff dough of it, which you manipulate 
with your hands, until a long sausage-like roll about one and a 
half inches in diameter is formed. This you cut into sections 
of a finger's width, and these again you lightly roll with the 
tips of your fingers until the ends are rounded off, by which 
process the noodles get slightly longer and thinner. Now take 
a large iron frying-pan, put into it nearly three tablespoonfuls 
of lard, and when very hot put in your noodles side by side ; 
let them get brown first on one side, and then on the other, 
turning them with a fork. Take them out with a skimmer, and 
place them on a piece of blotting-paper before serving. This 
is a favorite dish in the south of Germany, and, when success- 



LETTER XIII 103 

ful, as nice as any Saratoga potatoes. They can also be warmed 
over the following day by jDutting them in a hot oven for a few 
minutes before serving. 

Another delightful dish of the same origin is the following, 
called " potato balloons." Make a thin batter of two cupfuls 
of flour, half a pint of milk, the yolks of two eggs, 
and a saltspoonful of salt. Beat it well ; then add 
six potatoes which have been boiled the day before and grated 
while warm. Add also at the last moment the stiff snow of 
the two whites of egg. Take a spoonful at a time to drop into 
plenty of boiling hot lard. It will form into balls, which are to 
turn to a deep yellow before you remove them with a skimmer 
to be sensed immediately. 

I never throw away a single potato which is left over ; there 
is always some use for it. If even one or two only are left, I 
grate them and use them to thicken a soup. If How to use po- 
more, they can be sau^eed the next morning for ^^'^^ '^^ ''^''- 
breakfast, or cut into dice and heated up with hot milk, to 
which some salt and a piece of butter has been added. By put- 
ting them in a hot oven and allowing the milk to be partly 
absorbed by the potatoes, this makes a very good plain 
dish. 

Another way is to transform them into ^^ potatoes a la viait7-e 
d'hotcV : Cut your boiled potatoes into shoes, fry them in hot 
lard, then put them into a stew-pan with some Potatoes a la 
fresh butter, chopped parsley, salt, pepper, and a "^'^'^''^ d'hotei. 
few squeezes of lemon juice. Let the whole get hot, and leave 
it on the fire until well commingled ; then add a very little hot 
cream, and serve. This latter is Alexander Dumas' recipe, 
which warrants its excellence. You can also do the way I 
learned in Switzerland and have " potatoes with cheese." Slice 
some potatoes rather thin. Put them in layers into Potatoes with 
a buttered dish, alternating \nth layers of thinly '=""^- 
sliced cheese, finishing with the latter. Put small pieces of 
butter on top. Bake in a slow oven until of a light brown. 
The cheese underneath ought to be no more than just 
dissolved. 



10-4 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

If you wish for one reason or another to render a dish of 
potatoes more nourishing than ordinary, select either one of the 
two following recipes :  

Potatoes stewed in Milk.  Peel raw potatoes and cut them 
into slices ; put them in a saucepan, cover them up with milk, 
add salt (a teaspoonful to a quart of milk) , and boil them slowly 
until done. Be careful not to let the slices drop to pieces. 
]\Ieanwhile take some butter  two ounces (or size of an egg), 
for two pounds of potatoes  add to it half an onion (whole), 
and half a tablespoonful of flour ; mix over the fire, and when 
quite smooth add the milk strained from the potatoes. Cook, 
while stirring, for about five minutes, when you will have a 
thickish sauce which you strain through a sieve over your po- 
tato slices. Should your sauce be too thick, add a little more 
milk, and some salt if necessary. Place the whole over the fire 
once more, and let it get hot, without boiling, shaking the con- 
tents of the saucepan every few seconds. 

Potatoes in Broth.  Take a neck piece of beef weighing 
about a pound and a half. Put it on to cook with boiling water, 
and treat it the way I have taught you.^ When done, put it in 
another pot with a little of its liquor, and keep it warm. Have 
ready some potatoes boiled in their skins, but not quite done. 
Peel and slice them, and put them into the beef broth with the 
addition of a few onions thinly sliced (the latter are not 
essential and can be omitted). Cook them until entirely 
done, when add some minced parsley. Do not stir, but 
toss the stew-pot so as to mix the contents. Serve with some 
of the broth poured over the potatoes. Surround the latter 
with the boiled beef sliced down. Have the dish accom- 
panied by French mustard and cucumber pickles. 

Both these recipes are well to remember on days when not 
much attention can be paid to cooking. But the best of the 
kind is the following, which in regard to nutrients gives you in 
itself all that is required for a whole meal. Dr. Hermann 
Klencke, from whose book on domestic chemistry I take the 

1 See p. 17. 



LETTER XIII 105 

recipe, says this dish represents "nourishment of the highest 
order." To prepare it, you will have to take a stew- 
pot with a well-fitting lid, which you make air- and representing 
steam-tight by tying a folded and dampened towel ^5j"^'^^^ 
right over and around the crack between pot and 
lid, closing it up thereby completely. Before you do this, put 
into your pot alternate layers of sliced raw potatoes and slices 
of uncooked mutton. Sprinkle each layer with a little salt, 
pepper, and minced shallots (or onions, but shallots are pref- 
erable). Begin with a layer of potatoes and finish in the same 
way when about three inches from the top, to leave room for the 
swelling of the food. Finally add a scanty gill of cold water, 
and close your pot as described. Put the latter into another 
and larger pot in which a sufficient amount of water is boiling 
to reach up to three-quarters of the height of the inside pot. 
Now cover up the larger pot with a lid. Let it remain boiling 
from two and a half to three hours, then take out the inside 
pot, and allow it to get cooled off somewhat before removing 
towel and lid. If you should open the pot at once, before the 
steam had time to condense and form itself into a Hquid, a 
large part of the food-aroma would escape with the steam, and 
the food-matter would become dry. The contents of the pot, 
when served, will contain all the nutrients of meat and potatoes, 
without loss of anything. Each will complement the other, and 
satisfy both palate and appetite. The juice surrounding the 
dish is the pure juice of the meat, and better than any broth 
can be. 

With this plain but excellent dish I wnll close my lesson on 
potatoes; for I knov/ how anxious you are to have a variety 
of vegetables from which to choose for your table. 



LETTER XIV 



Sameness in one's food brews mischief. 



 Dr. Wiel. 



1WILL now tell you of vegetables more delicate, which are 
chiefly valuable on account of the various mineral matters 
Vegetables and ^^^ alkalies Contained in them. To give you a 
their food-values, comparative idea of their food-values, I will formu- 
late for reference a table of those vegetables which have been 
analyzed. 



Green Peas 

String Beans (very young) 
String Beans (older) . . 

Kohlrabi 

Cauliflower 

Spinach 

Asparagus 

Cabbage 

Carrots (young ones) . . 
Turnips 



Albumi- 
noids. 



2. O 
2. O 
I. O 
I. O 



Fats. 



o- 5 
o. 5 
o. o 
o. o 
o. o 

o- 5 
o. o 
o. o 
o. o 
o. o 



Carbo- 
hydrates. 



Water. 



78. o 
84. o 

89. o 
86. o 
91. o 
88. o 
94. o 

90. o 
88. o 
89.5 



Cellu- 
lose. 



2. o 

2. o 

1. o 

2. O 
I. O 
I. O 

1. O 

2. O 
I. O 
I. O 



Mineral 
Matters. 



I. O 
I. o 



If you deduct the percentage of water all these vegetables 
contain, you will know how small the amount is of their dry 
substance in every hundred parts, and how necessary it is to 
make good their shortcomings by combining them with com- 
plementing nutrients. The elements of which they are com- 
posed have to be economized so much the more because of 
their small proportions. Their relatively large percentage of 
mineral matters is most essential for supplying vital power 
to the blood, and helping thus to restore day by day the waste 
106 



LETTER XIV 107 

of our system. Therefore, like meat, they cannot afford to lose 
any of their nutritive substances. Consequently we must not 
keep them soaking in water, nor put them on to boil in cold 
water. In regard to onions, cabbage, and string-beans, it is 
advisable to throw away the first water, after they have boiled 
up once or twice ; it renders them more wholesome, inasmuch 
as these vegetables contain some sulphuric gases inimical to 
digestion, which thus are got rid of. In all available cases, 
however, I am in favor of serving the vegetables with the liquid 
they are cooked in, for only in this way can we get the whole 
benefit of their delicate and volatile mineral constituents, and 
pre5er\'e their original and characteristic flavor. 

The worst vegetables in the world are those prepared by 
English rules, when they are boiled in water until done, and 
the latter is thrown away, after having extracted all the good 
the vegetable food contained, leaving it insipid and flat-tasting. 
It was this style of vegetables which made a German author, 
Ludwig Boeme, who was condemned to a life of exile, say 
that they reminded him of Etruscan vases, the designs of which 
showed only the first and rudest principles of art  an expres- 
sion alm.ost too good for that sort of misused food. 

We will see now how to make the best of it. You notice 
that among the vegetables enumerated in our table, green 
peas make the best show as to nutrients. They are also the 
most dii^estible of them all, if not too old. In 

^ , ' , About psas, 

our country they are generally too mature when and how to 
picked for use. To get the best they contain 
and have them tender, cook them as follows : After they are 
rinsed in cold water put them in a saucepan in which a little 
butter has been melted ; let them stew for several minutes, 
shaking them a few times to prevent their sticking to the bottom ; 
sprinkle with a little salt ; add some boiling water from time 
to time  not more than just enough to keep them moist. 
This water must be for the most part absorbed, and the rest 
sensed with the peas. If thrown away, the best of the latter 
would be thrown away with it. Shake them occasionally, to 
have all the peas come in contact with the liquid. They 



108 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

ought to be done in fifteen to twenty minutes, if young. If 
your water is hard, add a saltspoonful of baking-soda to it in the 
beginning. Serve the peas with a piece of fresh butter on top. 

I will mention here that, in order to preserve the beautiful 
green of peas, string beans, spinach, etc., it is necessary to cook 
them uncovered, and to add salt to them as soon as put on 
to boil. 

Green peas need no accessories of parsley or mint, as French 
and German cookery prescribe. They are of such fine and 
delicate flavor that any kind of spice, be it exotic or herby, 
would merely deteriorate them. 

It is a curious circumstance, which might interest you, that, 
although the ancients knew them as pulse, peas were unknown 
for culinary purposes in their green state until the time of 
Louis XIV., when they at once enraptured the court circles. 
Madame de Maintenon writes at the time (1696) : "The sub- 
ject of peas continues:  the impatience to eat them; the 
pleasure to have eaten them ; and the delight to eat them 
again, are the three points our princes talk about for the last 
few days. It is a fashion, a craze ! " 

They have continued favorites ever since, and deserv^e it. 
Now let us see what they agree with and what are their com- 
plements. They assort with asparagus, cauliflower, young 
squash, and young carrots, in which they find increase of their 
mineral and other values, besides harmonizing with them in 
taste ; while lamb, mutton, and poultry not only are in harmony 
with, but complement peas in regard to fats and albuminoids. 
To obtain a dish of almost perfect composition you might do 
as foflows :  

Take a round platter, place in the middle of it a fine head of 

cauliflower boiled in salted water with the addition of a piece 

of butter the size of half an egg. Encircle it with 

composed ^ wreath of green peas, which in turn you sur- 

of vegetables round by a rim of boiled rice. Put outside of it 

and meat. ' 

a circle of boiled carrots cut into wheels, and 
surround the whole either with lamb chops, or stewed sweet- 
breads. 



LETTER XrV 109 

Next to green peas come string beans when quite young, which, 
however, if maturer, are surpassed in their nutritive quali- 
ties by kohlrabi,  a vesretable introduced from _, . , 

J ^ ^ _ string beans, 

Germany. Cook string beans thus : String them and how to 

... , cookthenn. 

from each end twice, i.e. lour tuiies altogether. 
For nothing is more disagreeable than to eat beans not 
entirely freed of their strings. Wash them very well through 
several waters, rubbing them through your hands to get rid 
of parasites which are apt to cling to them, and are invisible 
to the naked eye. This done, you cut them slantwise into 
pieces an inch wide, and parboil them as stated before ; then 
drain and put them into boihng mutton or beef broth enough 
to cover them. They need more or less boihng according to 
their kind or age ; not less than one hour. Some need two 
hours, some even more ; but I would say the latter are not 
fit to eat because too hard to digest. By slow boiling and 
evaporation the most of the liquid ought to disappear ; the rest 
must be served with the beans. They need more fat than 
peas, not having any themselves. Serve them with beef, mut- 
ton, or pork. 

In the tables at my disposal some of our most favored vege- 
tables are missing. I cannot, therefore, give you the nutritive 
values of Lima beans and some others, but I judge from the 
mealiness of the Lima bean that it must have a large percentage 
of carbohydrates. Cook them in boiling water, slightly salted. 
Do not take any more water than will cook them. How to cook 
and when tender add a little hot milk, in which a '-'"'^ ^^^"^ 
good-sized piece of butter has been melted. Add some salt. 
Leave them standing in a hot place for a short while to get 
saturated with the milk. 

Kohlrabi are only fit to eat when quite young ; later they con- 
tain much fibrous matter which is indigestible. Peel them, 
halve them, cut them into thin slices, parboil in How to cook 
salted water, and drain them. Stew them slowly ^^^'^''- 
in some light-colored broth. When they begin to get tender 
add the heart of the green leaves growing at the top of the 
kohlrabi, after cutting them into shreds. They are of fine 



110 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

flavor, and will color the dish slightly green. When done, 
drain the vegetable and use the liquid in which they have 
cooked for a bechamel sauce, which you pour over your kohl- 
rabi. Let them get right hot in it, and serve. 

Taking into consideration the downward ratio of nitrogenous 

substance  which is the guiding standard  I have next to 

mention spinach, then cauliflower, cabbasfe, aspar- 

About spinach. ^ ' . r^, , , 

agus, carrots, and turnips, ihe two latter show 
more carbohydrates  owing to the sugar contained in them  
than any of the foregoing, except green peas. Spinach is a 
highly valuable vegetable because of its mineral matters, espe- 
cially iron and lime. Therefore, you must be most careful not 
to waste its precious juices by throwing away the water it is 
cooked in, or pressing its leaves before chopping it fine. Some, 
indeed, prefer not to chop it at all, and they are no doubt 
right ; but table fashion will have it chopped. 

For 3i puree of spinach, pick the leaves over carefully, omit- 
ting the coarse and thick-ribbed ones ; v/ash them several times, 
f^ p^jr-ee throw them in plenty of boiling water, well salted ; 

of spinach. leavc them in a few moments, then drain, and 

cool them off in cold w^ater, from which drain them again. Now 
chop them very fine in a wooden bowl. Take a saucepan, put 
in a piece of butter, and when hot add to it your spinach. Stew 
very gently in its own juice, merely adding a little boiling 
water, if necessary, to prevent scorching. When done, which 
will be in about one-half hour, the spinach ought to have sufii- 
cient consistency to serve it heaped up in a dish, or to use it 
as a garnish around any kind of meat. 

If spinach is served as a course by itself, a garnish of croutons^ 
or quarters of hard boiled eggs, or both is in place. A puree 
Spinach as an of spiuach is Suitable for an enh-emets  a course 
eniremets. between the roast and dessert  and as such is 

nice accompanied by either poached eggs, or pancakes ^ rolled up. 

A cupful of spinach puree left over will furnish you with 
material for a spinach pudding on the following day. 

1 See p. 169. 



LETTER XIV 111 

Take butter the size of half an egg, and when melted and 
hot, add to it a slice of onion and some parsley, both minced ; 
one stale French roll, of which the crust is ^ spinach 
grated off, and which has been soaked in milk p^^d'"g- 
and pressed dry. Mix well over a moderate fire, and let 
it stew for about five minutes. Have some remnants of 
cooked meat chopped fine  half a cupful is sufficient  
and beat the yokes of four eggs until light. Add both meat 
and yokes to the foregoing. Taste it, and see that it is salted 
just right. Finally, add the whites of the four eggs beaten to 
a stiff snow.^ Put the whole into a well-buttered pudding 
form, and either steam it, covered up in a vessel with boiling 
water for one hour, or bake it in a moderate oven until by 
inserting a broom-straw nothing will adhere to the latter when 
pulled out. 

This excellent dish requires a sauce for serving with it. A 
white sauce with a flavor of lemon juice answers the purpose. 
An addition to it of mushrooms is, of course, better. Still 
better is a thickening of coarsely chopped chicken, cooked 
beforehand. 

Spinach will bear warming up the next day ; although I do 
not quite agree with the French canon, who ate spinach only after 
it had been cooked up for six consecutive days, with the addi- 
tion, each time, of a fresh lump of butter. This canon's name 
was Chevrier, who also invented the hermetically closed stew- 
pot. 

A very pleasant combination is that of spinach and sorrel ; 
especially, in spring, when the young leaves of the latter are 
not as acid as the later growth. Sorrel by itself is a delight- 
fully refreshing vegetable for those who like the 
acidity of it. You treat it exactly like spinach, but 
to bind it, add the yoke of an egg beaten up in a little cream, 
at the last moment. 

To boil cauliflower, put it upside down into cold water strongly 
salted ; this destroys the insects apt to vegetate between the 

1 See p. 183. 



112 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

roses or flowerets. Leave the head in but a short time, then 
rinse it off, and put it into boiUng water shghtly salted, top 
downward. See that it is fully covered with water, 
and boiling continuously. It will be done in 
twenty to thirty minutes. It gets tasteless if you cook it after 
it is tender, which you can test with a larding-needle thrust 
through the middle. Lift it out carefully, and place it on a 
platter, then pour over it a bechamel sauce for which you use 
some of the water it was boiled in. Or you may use the fol- 
A sauce for lowiug saucc : For a small head of cauliflower 

cauliflower. ^^|.g |^^|f ^ pj^t of the watcr in which it was 

boiled (or the same amount of veal broth) ; add to it two 
ounces of butter, a teaspoonful of flour, a taste of nutmeg, and 
the yokes of two eggs beaten beforehand. Stir the whole over 
the fire until it just comes to a boil, and no longer. Continue 
to stir for several minutes after you have taken it off the fire, 
to avert all danger of curdling. 

To cook cauliflower with cheese, take a dish and moisten 
it with a thick bechamel sauce ; dust over it some grated 
Parmesan cheese ; then arrange on it a layer of 
pSr/'o,rith large flowerets of cauliflower boiled beforehand, 

cheese. ^^^ spread over them more of the sauce, and 

cheese thickly sprinkled ; put in a hot oven until of a golden 
yellow, and serve in the same dish. 

A head of cauliflower divided into its different roses before 
Cauliflower, being boiled, and then served on the same dish 

with lobster. ^^\^ boiled lobster, produces a good effect, and 

tastes well. Serve it with an herb sauce,^ to which add the 
minced coral of the lobster. 

Cauliflower served with either pigeons, chickens, veal cut- 
lets, or roast beef, is a good combination. 

To prepare asparagus for boiling, shave off with a sharp 

knife the fine outside fibres, beginning below the 

sparagus. ^^^^ downward, and cut away the woody end 

below. Do it just before needed. Rinse in cold water, then tie 

1 See p. 74. 



LETTER XIV 113 

the Stalks together by the dozen, and put them in plenty of 
boiling water slightly salted. They ought to be done in twenty- 
minutes. If left boiling too long, they will harden, and, more- 
over, lose their flavor together with their delicate mineral mat- 
ters, which render asparagus so valuable. Remove the strings 
after they are placed on the dish they are to be served in. 
Have with them some melted butter, or a bechamel sauce 
made slightly acid, and thickened with the yoke of one or more 
eggs. A sauce Hollandaise^ agrees well with them. But 
whatever sauce you make, always use for it some of the water 
in which the asparagus was boiled, because it absorbs part of 
its flavor and wholesome properties. 

There is a great deal of difference in asparagus, for it is 
very particular as to the soil in which it grows. It likes 
sandy soil much better than clayey soil, and fashions itself 
accordingly. In southern Germany the asparagus of Ulm on 
the Danube is especially famous ; but at the town itself the 
highest priced is that grown on the left bank of the river, 
because superior to the asparagus grown on the opposite bank. 

When asparagus begins to appear, and is high in price, the 
thin kind, which is cheapest, may be appropriated with advan- 
tage for a dish of asparagus en peiits pois (in shape Asparagus 
of peas). Cut the asparagus into sections as large P='^'^ P^ 
as full-grown peas. Cook them in salted water, drain them 
v/hen tender, and take the water to make a sauce in this Avay : 
Melt a tablespoonful of butter, mix with half a tablespoonful of 
flour, to which add, when bubbling, asparagus water sufficient 
to make a slightly thick sauce. Add the yolks of one or two 
eggs at the last moment. Pour this sauce over your asparagus, 
and allow it to stand in a warm place covered up for about 
ten minutes before servnnsr. 

Asparagus assorts best with the more delicate kinds of meat, 
but it is also acceptable with boiled ham. 

Among the cabbages, Brussels sprouts are the aristocratic 
branch of the family. They are a very sweet and dehcate 

1 See p. 131. 



js en 

')OiS. 



114 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

vegetable. Take the little roses, rinse them in cold water, and 
throw them into boiling water salted. Let them boil up once, 
Brussels ^i^d 1^0 more. Drain and pour cold water over 

^P^"""^*- them ; then melt a small piece of butter, in which 

you stew them gently until tender. If they should get too dry, 
add a very little beef broth. They go with any kind of dark 
meat, as well as with boiled ham or tongue. They are deli- 
cious, accompanied by boiled chestnuts, either as 2. puree or 
whole as a garnish.^ 

To boil cabbage, cut the heads into quarters, taking out 
the stalks inside. Treat it like cauliflower in cleansing it. 
Boil it in broth ; that obtained from pork is the 
best, for cabbage needs plenty of fat to make 
it digestible. The most economical way is to stew it with ribs 
of pork, covering both meat and cabbage with boiling water, and 
cooking them gently for two hours, allowing the water gradually 
An economical to bc absorbed and serving the pork on top of the 
^'^^- cabbage. By adding a few small sausages, which 

also garnish well, this dish, followed by a pudding or some 
sweet pancakes, is quite a dinner for days when time is precious. 

For cabbage, au gratin, I use what is left over, and put it in 
a buttered china dish ; then I pour over it a white sauce mixed 
Cabbage with the yolk of an egg. On top of it I put a thin 

au gratin. layer of fine bread or cracker-crumbs, over which 

I dust some grated cheese. A few flakes of butter distributed 
over the whole, finish the dish, which has to be put in a hot 
oven to get brown. It is served in the same dish it is baked in. 

A more delicate kind, and much more to be recommended, 
is Savoy cabbage. It is especially good prepared in the folio w- 
ino[ wav :  

Take young and firm heads, and after removing the coarser 
outside leaves, cleanse them well, and parboil them. Then 
Savoy cabbage cut them in halvcs, take out the woody insides, 
with rice. ^j^j ^Y\ them with rice cooked in boiling water for 

five minutes. Put a good-sized piece of butter in a stew-pan, 

1 See pp. 125, 126. 



LETITR XIV 115 

and when hot put in your halves, rice uppermost, side 
by side. Put some bits of butter on top of the rice, 
and dust over the whole a little salt. Let it stew, with 
the addition of some beef broth, until quite tender, then 
serve carefully, either by itself, or around your dish of 
meat. 

To prepare a stuffed head of cabbage is more troublesome, 
but pays well. For it you may take either kind, but Savoy cab- 
bage is preferable. Take a larere head. Boil it 

^ ^ -1 1  1 1 stuffed cabbage. 

whole in salted water until the outside leaves get 
tender. Then pour off the water, taking care not to injure the 
head. Place it on a meat-board, and carefully unfold the leaves 
 turning them backward leaf by leaf, until you get to the 
heart. Remove it as well as the hard inside part. Chop the 
tender leaves of the heart, and add to the stuffing, which you 
make of two ounces of fat pork and two ounces of beef, both 
chopped fine (any remnants of meat partly fat will do) ; one 
ounce of butter beaten to a cream ; ^ the yolks of two eggs ; a 
teaspoonful of minced onion; a scant teaspoonful of salt; the 
same of minced parsley ; one French roll soaked in milk and 
pressed dry. Mix the egg and bread, and add them to the 
butter ; add the other ingredients last, and heap up the whole 
in the centre of the cabbage head. Turn back now each leaf 
in its proper place, thus enveloping the stuffing and reshaping 
the entire head. Now take a baking-pan, heat in it a piece of 
butter the size of an egg, place the cabbage in it, and bake in 
a moderately hot oven. Baste from time to time, and add a 
little water v/hen there is danger of scorching. It will take 
from two to three hours to get done. Serve on a round 
platter, and pour over it the gravy which will be in 
the bottom of the pan. Besides, you may serve with this 
dish a white sauce, made slightly piquant by the addition 
of a small amount of anchovy paste and lemon juice. 
The head is to be carved in sections cut, like a cake, from 
the centre towards the outer circumference. 

1 See p. 183. 



116 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

The famous ''Bonibe a la Sardanapale^^'' which was served 
one day to Frederick the Great, of Prussia, by his chef Sieur 
Noels, was nothing more nor less than a stuffed cabbage head, 
with slices of cooked ham and bacon underneath and on 
top of it, and a small sausage folded up in each leaf. The 
king was as great a gourmet as he was a great leader, 
and felt so delighted with this surprise prepared by his 
chef, that he wrote and dedicated to him a poem of 137 
lines. 

Red cabbage is finer and more delicate than the white kind. 

In Germany it is cooked in the way which follows, when it is 

served with partridges in their proper season. It 

Red cabbage. . , ,  , i i i -i i 

IS very good, also, with roasted pork, or boiled 
ham. Cut a large head, or two small ones, into quarters, 
and after removing the hard parts, shred fine with a sharp 
knife. Put it in a stew-pan, in which a tablespoonful of lard, 
or the same amount of pork-drippings, has been heated. 
Cover it up, and let it stew over a moderate fire, shaking it and 
tossing it from time to time, for half an hour. Then add half 
a cupful of beef broth, and an hour later a wineglassful of cider- 
vinegar and twice as much claret. Add also a teaspoonful of 
salt and the same amount of granulated sugar, and continue 
stewing until quite tender. The longer you boil this dish of 
cabbage, the better it will be ; only be sure and do not add 
the vinegar and wine too long before serving, since they lose 
by cooking. If you prefer not to use wine, you will have to 
double the quantity of vinegar, and increase that of sugar also. 
The claret, however, gives this dish a special flavor, which is 
very pleasant. I can also recommend adding a Baldwin or 
Spitzenberg apple  peeled, cored, and quartered  half an 
hour before the cabbage is done. 

In many families the great objection to boiled cabbage 
is the odor which it is apt to send to the upper regions 
of the house. I have already mentioned that cabbage gets 
rid of some of the obnoxious gases if parboiled before cook- 
ing it. But, to fully prevent any odor penetrating further 
than the pot in which the cabbage is being cooked, place 



LETTER XIV 117 

over it a towel folded treble or quadruple. I can vouch for 
its effectiveness. 

Here I am at the end of my letter  and a whole string of 
vegetables waiting for me to discourse on. You have, however, 
plenty on hand now, to secure a variety for your table until I 
continue the theme in my next. 



LETTER XV 

Dis-moi ce que tu mange, et je te dirai ce que tu es. 

 Brillat-Savarin. 

I BEGIN at once with the root vegetables, which contain 
the least nourishment. Still, they come in for their share 
of usefulness also. Carrots make the best show among 
them. Next I would place salsify or oyster plant, 

Carrots. i  i   ^ ^ ^ ^ r ^^ i 

which IS certamly the most agreeable of all the 
roots. Carrots are generally discarded as a vegetable by 
themselves, but if treated in the proper way they are both 
palatable and wholesome as long as they are not too old. 
Scrape them clean with a sharp knife, and rinse them in water. 
If quite young cut the carrots into little wheels, but if grown 
large cut them first into thin wheels and then into narrow 
strips. Put them into boiling water, barely enough to cover 
them, and add a piece of butter as soon as they begin to boil. 
Allow the liquid to soak in gradually. They will be done in 
an hour's time, if young. Add some minced parsley and 
serve. You may cook turnips in the same way as carrots, merely 
cutting them thicker ; or stew them in mutton broth, leaving out 
the butter, and omit in any case the parsley. To press the water 
out of boiled turnips is to rob them of all the good which is 
in them. They are about the poorest vegetable as it is, and 
though for the sake of variety I allow them on my table, it is only 
when cooked in the following manner, which I learned in Italy. 
Cut them into slices, stew them in water, adding 
a little butter and salt. When tender drain off 
what liquid is left and use it for a sauce, which you make of a 
heaped teaspoonful of flour and the same of butter. Now 
grease a dish, put in a layer of the sliced turnips, dust with 
pepper and spread some of the sauce over it, then another 
ii8 



LETTER XV 119 

layer of turnips, and so on until they are used up. Dust some 
grated Parmesan cheese over the top, and put flakes of butter 
here and there. Bake in the oven until light brown and serve 
in the same dish. 

I have also eaten cucumbers cooked in this way, and found 
them very good. They were quartered and had the seeds 
taken out. 

Salsify is invaluable in winter, when fresh vegetables are 
scarce. It is both delicate and easily digested. One might 
call it the winter asparagus. To have it of a pure 
white, throw it into cold water made slightly acid 
by the addition of some vinegar. i\dd also a teaspoonful of 
flour to it. Before you do this, however, you have to scrape 
off the black outside. Cut the roots into pieces one inch long. 
Leave them in the above water for a little while before you 
throw them into the boiling water. To make saisifya/a 
" salsify <3; hi poulette,'"' boil your salsify in water 9^'^^^^- 
with a little salt and butter. It needs one hour to get tender. 
Then drain and put in a sauce made of chicken broth and 
white I'oicx in the usual way. At the very last add the yellow 
of two tggi, beaten up with some cream. A slight addition of 
lemon juice is an improvement. Have the same quantity of 
small pieces of boiled chicken as you have of salsify, and add 
it also to the sauce. You can, of course, leave out the chicken 
if you want to use it for something else. Or you can make 
your sauce with cream instead of broth, and leave out the 

You know that salsify fritters are similar to fried oysters in 
taste, hence the name of oyster plant. They are, of course, 
not nearly as wholesome as the vegetable when 
merely boiled or stewed, yet, if sau/etd v^ith care, ^ ^' ^ 
they are not any more risky for a sound digestion than other 
food cooked in fat. For fritters, boil the salsify until soft ; 
drain, and mash it with the addition of a lump of butter, salt 
and pepper. (To a dozen roots take a tablespoonful of butter.) 
Form into small cakes, turn them in flour, and fry them in 
butter or lard. 



120 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

The root vegetables all need to be complemented by fat 
meat. 

A highly medicinal root is celery, i.e. the soup or turnip- 
rooted celery. According to Liebig, it contains the astonishing 
amount of sixteen to twenty per cent of mineral 
e ery roo . matters and alkalies in one hundred parts of its 

dry substance. Its taste is a peculiarly spicy one, very agreeable 
to some persons and distasteful to others. It is certainly very 
wholesome when young, and devoid of coarse woody fibres. To 
eat celery root as a vegetable, have it well scraped and cleaned 
and thrown into the boiling liquor for soup, to which it will 
impart its flavor at the same time. When nearly tender remove 
from the soup-pot, cut into slices, and put them to stew in 
either some broth or cream (a gill to two good-sized roots). 
If cream is used a teaspoonful of butter, mixed with a little 
flour, will have to be added. Serve with the liquid around 
them. 

Parsnips, like carrots, contain a good deal of sugar. In the 
case of carrots, parsley mollifies their sweetish taste ; parsley, 
however, is out of harmony with parsnips : they 
need cream, and are better in taste for being 
boiled in slightly salted water  which throw away  until 
tender. Then, prepare a cream or plain bechamel sauce, and 
allow the parsnips, which you have cut either into wheels or 
thick strips, to be steeped in this sauce for a while before serv- 
ing. Parsnips are best, perhaps, as a friture} Or, take one 
;^d;shof parsnip, one small celery root, and half a dozen 

mixed roots. salsify roots ; cut them into even dice and stew 

with a piece of veal and a few slices of salt pork or bacon, in a 
little water. Serve the veal in the middle of a dish, and the 
vegetables around it. The juice remaining in the stew-pot will 
serve to be poured over the whole. A squeeze from a sour 
orange added to it will improve this dish. 

The root containing the most sugar is the beet. There are 
several varieties, of which I prefer for a vegetable the dark red 

1 See p. ']']. 



LETTER XV 121 

kind. When quite young they are very tender and delicious. 
Later in the year and in the winter the large red beets will 
make a nice salad. To preserve their color, you 
must prevent their " bleeding by carefully keeping 
intact their skin, and not interfering with their tops and tails 
before they are cooked. Wash them very clean, put them into 
plenty of salted and boiling water, and let them boil for one to 
three hours, according to size. Test one of your roots with a 
skewer to see if tender to the core. Drain, peel, place in a 
hot dish, and pour over them some melted butter. Slice them 
if they are not very young and small. In Italy they put the 
beets in the oven after the bread has been baked, and leave 
them in until tender. They are best in this way. 

I will say a few words here about sweet potatoes. I have 
not seen them analyzed, but judge from their components of 
starch and sugar that their nutritive properties 

... 1  1 I  1 Sweet potatoes. 

might be slightly superior to the common or 
white potato. It is to be regretted, therefore, that they are 
heavy to digest, and, in the same measure, decrease in value as 
food ; for only in so far as we digest food are we nourished by 
it. Boil or bake sweet potatoes as directed about white pota- 
toes. They need, however, a longer time to get done. They 
are nice cut into slices lengthwise  after being boiled  and 
sautetd until light brown. 

Green corn and egg-plant ought both to have good nourish- 
ing properties, if we consider how they satisfy one's appetite. 
The former, after being freed of its husks and 
tas.sels, is done in fifteen to twenty minutes after 
being put into boiling water salted, and allowed to boil unin- 
terruptedly. 

For corn fritters  which also taste a good deal like fried 
oysters  grate the green corn off the cob, and for half a pint 
of it take the yolk of one egg, a heaped table- 
spoonful of flour, a tablespoonful of cream, and a 
saltspoonful of salt. Mix well, and saute in lard, dropping into 
it a tablespoonful at a time. 

For canned corn take half a cupful of cream (or milk) for 



122 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

half a can. When it boils, add butter the size of half an egg, 
mixed with a teaspoonful of flour. When dissolved pour it 
over the corn, which you heat in a separate sauce-pan. Let 
the whole simmer together for a few minutes. 

In summer, when you do not care for much meat, egg-plant 
furnishes you with a nice breakfast dish. Cut it into slices 
Egg-plant, about a quarter of an inch thick ; sprinkle each 

sauteed. slice with Salt ; heap up the slices, one above the 

other ; put a board on top, and press it down by the weight of 
a heavy flatiron. Let them remain thus for about an hour, 
when most of their bitter flavor will have oozed out. Now 
turn each slice in some flour, and saufe in a little hot butter or 
drippings to a dark brown, first on one side, then on the other. 
Serve very hot. 

For baking egg-plant take either one large or two small 
ones. Pare them, cut them into thick slices, and boil in salted 
Egg-plant, water until quite soft. Then drain and mash 

au gratin. them. Add half a cupful of bread-crumbs soaked 

in milk, a scant tablespoonful of butter, a teaspoonful of minced 
parsley, half as much of minced onion, a little pepper, and salt 
to taste. Beat together, and put into a buttered ^;'^//;/-dish. 
Cover the top with bread-crumbs, and bake until nice and 
brown. 

Before speaking of our great favorite  the tomato  I will 
hurriedly mention the summer squash, sometimes called patty- 
pan squash, on account of its shape. Although 
^"^^^ ' not much more than water, squash, for a change, 

is quite refreshing. When it is very young and tender, you 
need not pare it, nor take out the seeds. Wash your squashes, 
and quarter them ; cover them with boiling water, slightly 
salted, and boil them until they mash easily, which will be in 
about half an hour. Then put them into a sieve, and, with a 
large and flat spoon, press the water out of them. Return 
them to the stew-pan with a good-sized piece of butter, a httle 
salt, and some cream, if you choose. They need a good deal 
of butter to make them palatable. 

Now for tomatoes, this always welcome and refreshing vege- 



LETTER XV 123 

table. Like the potato, it belongs to the family of night- 
shades ; but how different from that common-place relative 
it is, both in nature and in looks, drawing nurture 

Tomatoes and the 

and color from the rays of the sun, while the various ways of 

, 1  > .1 ^ J J cooking them. 

meaner cousm is sticking to the clod and 
vegetating in darkness. The sunny offspring, to be sure, 
does not give us nearly the amount of actual food we get 
from the darkling ; but what other vegetable is there so cool- 
ing on hot summer days, so refreshing always, whether summer 
or winter, so much so, as to tempt us to call it a fruit rather 
than a vegetable ? 

If you pour boiling water over the tomatoes and allow them 
to stand awhile, you can easily remove their skins. Then take 
each between your hands, and press out some of the watery 
inside and as many of the hard seeds as possible. Don't rob 
them of too much of their juice; it contains highly valuable 
mineral matters and the very acid which produces their refresh- 
ing and cooling effect. Put your tomatoes prepared in the 
above way into a skillet, and allow them to cook twenty min- 
utes, no longer. Add plenty of salt, and shortly before they 
are done a good-sized piece of butter and a sprinkle of pepper. 
If you like them thickened, add some water-cracker dust or 
fine bread-crumbs. 

To bake tomatoes, cut them into halves and place them, with 
end downward, side by side on a layer of bread-crumbs in a 
buttered gra/in-dish. Sprinkle with plenty of salt and a little 
white pepper. Cover up with a layer of bread-crumbs, and 
put over it as many little pieces of butter as you have halves of 
tomatoes. Bake them in a moderate oven for from half to 
three-quarters of an hour. 

Fried tomatoes are most deHcious for breakfast or supper. 
I hav^e eaten them in perfection in southern Pennsylvania and 
Delaware, where there is a wealth of rich cream. Cut the 
tomatoes into rather thick slices. Have some hot butter, or 
the best beef drippings, in a large frying-pan ; put your slices 
into it, one beside the other, and sau/e until brown on both 
sides. Then pour over them plenty of rich cream to make a 



12-4 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

gravy. When bubbling up, remove the tomato sHces carefully 
with a skimmer into a hot platter. Do not heap them up, but 
place them side by side. Now take the yolks of two or three 
eggs, beaten up in a little cream, which you have gottem ready 
beforehand, and stir into the cream gravy after it has been 
removed from the stove. After stirring it well, replace it on 
the stove for a few minutes to get hot, without boiling, stirring 
all the time. At last pour it over the tomatoes, and serve. 

It was Grimod de la Reyniere who invented stuffed toma- 
toes. I give you his own famous recipe : Make an opening at 
the stem end of the tomatoes, press the latter, so as to relieve 
them as much as possible of their seeds without injury to their 
shape. Fill into the cavity thus obtained a stuffing of either 
sausage meat or chopped meat of any kind, or of different 
meats. Mix with this stuffing a soup<;on of garlic (or rather 
rub the dish in which you mix the stuffing with the inside of a 
clove of garlic), some minced parsley, shallot, and tarragon. 
Put the tomatoes side by side into a buttered ^;'^//;z-dish, which 
they must fill out. Dust bread-crumbs over the top to cover 
the whole ; place bits of butter on it, one for each tomato. 
Bake in a hot oven for about half an hour. The top ought to 
be of a light brown. 

Stewed tomatoes left over can be served again in many ways. 
They may be added to rice, or macaroni, or eaten with eggs, 
or added to a soup or a hash. They are always in place, with 
whatever meat or cereals you serve them ; and they are pre- 
eminently suited to go with eggs in any shape. 

To make my list of vegetables complete I must not omit 
onions. If you like them, you will do well to have them now 
and then with roast poultry. Boil them in two 
waters, salted. Throw away the first water after 
they have boiled about five minutes, and renew it. They will 
be milder in taste this way. Boil them for an hour or more, 
until they are perfectly tender. Drain them. Boil some cream, 
to which add a piece of butter, salt, and pepper, and pour over 
the onions for a dressing. Steep them in it for a Httle while. 
Then serve. Or, make z. puree of them, by chopping them fine 



LETTER XV 125 

after they are boiled and tender, which moisten with the same 
dressing, adding to it a Httle thickening of flour. 

For a garnish of roast duck or beefsteak, do as follows : 
Take a dozen small onions, all of one size. Be careful in peel- 
ing not to cut them too close at the root end, or they may fall 
to pieces in cooking. Boil them in the above manner for half 
~an hour, then drain, and put them in a sauce-pan with butter 
the size of a walnut, a scant teaspoonful of sugar, two or three 
tablespoonfuls of good broth, and a little salt. Keep them over 
a lively fire for about ten minutes, shaking the sauce-pan fre- 
quently to prevent scorching. Then remove them to a mod- 
erate fire, and let them stew until they become brown and 
glazed over. They must be perfectly tender. 

I would be at the end of enumerating the different vegetables 
for table use were it not for my classifying chestnuts with them 
rather than with fruit. In our country we have chestnuts and 
not yet made such use of them in connection with ^^^^ usethenn. 
meat or other vegetables as is done in Europe. One reason 
for it, no doubt, is the high price paid for the large imported 
chestnuts, and the tediousness of peeling for cooking purposes 
the puny little ones growing wild on this continent. The chest- 
nut, on account of its mealiness (starch) and sweetness (sugar), 
is very much like the sweet potato in its compounds. Its 
flavor, however, is far superior, and its fibre much more deli- 
cate. In the south of Europe, where chestnuts grow large and 
abundantly, they are part of the daily food of the common 
people. On the Isle of Corsica the latter make them serve as 
bread, and speak of the bread tree when they mean the chest- 
nut tree. 

Chestnuts assort especially well with cabbage, Brussels sprouts, 
and other greens. They need fat to make them easier of diges- 
tion. For a garnish do as follows : Peel the chestnuts, throw 
them into boiling water, cover them up and allow to stand for 
five minutes. Then remove the inner skin by rubbing it off 
with a clean towel, and throw the peeled chestnuts into cold 
Vvater. Drain and rub dry with another towel ; then put them 
into a sauce-pan side by side with a little salt, a good sprinkle 



120 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

of granulated sugar, a small piece of butter, and broth half an 
inch deep. Cover them up well, shake them from time to 
time, and cook over a moderate fire until they are light brown 
and tender. 

They make a very nice puree by preparing them as above, 
and cooking them until quite tender in broth sufficient to cover 
them (veal or chicken broth is best). Then mash them well, 
adding some boiling hot cream, a good-sized piece of butter, 
and a little salt. This puree is particularly good with duck, 
mutton, and meat croquettes. 

Before closing I will repeat what I indicated in the begin- 
ning when speaking of vegetables : that two or more of 
different kinds will make with ingenuity and judgment, 
a most appetizing-looking mixed vegetable dish,^ or what 
is called a macedoine. It will give you some extra trouble, 
to be sure, and also cause a certain expense. But once in a 
while, for some desired guests, you would take this upon your- 
self willingly, and the effect produced will repay you. At the 
time of spring and early summer, when vegetables are freshest 
and in plenty, a macedoine is in its proper place : Take only 
A macedoine the bcst and frcshcst you can get : carrots, turnips, 
of vegetables. grecn pcas, asparagus, string-beans or any other 
vegetables which will match. Cut the roots into fancy shapes, 
the beans into lozenges, the asparagus into one-and-a-half- 
inch pieces. Cook each by itself in salted water until just 
done. Drain them ; put a good-sized piece of butter into a 
stewing-pan ; when melted, put in your vegetables and stir 
them gently over a not too lively fire. There must not be any 
more butter than sufficient to encase with it the vegetables. 
When they are thoroughly heated, moisten them with some 
thick bechainel sauce and serve them heaped up, pyramid- 
shaped, on a hot dish. 

This is Dumas' recipe, on which you may improve by stew- 
ing each vegetable, after parboiling it, in butter and a little 
water, except asparagus and cauliflower, which you boil in 

1 See also filet of beef, p. 47. 



LETTER XV 127 

some broth. Then you might either mix your vegetables in 
the above way, or  what would look nicer  arrange them 
wTeath-like, each vegetable by itself, as demonstrated before ; 
or in different sections around some kind of meat, or a head 
of cauliflower. By adding stewed mushrooms, shrimps, or lob- 
ster claws, you will raise it to a first-class dish. 

If from the abundance of vegetables at your command you 
make wise selections, and have a variety for your daily fare 
accompanied by well-assorted meat, you will not run the 
danger of being reproached one day by a squib hke that of the 
boy averse to turnips :  

Turnips, turnips day by day, 
Drove me surely off and away. 
If for dinner mother had 
Meat, good meat, at home I'd staid. 



LETTER XVI 

So many fishes of so many features. 



 Du BARTAS. 



YOU have reminded me in good time that I have not said 
anything as yet about fish. It is not equivalent to beef, 
and hardly as nourishing as the lower grades of meat ; still, it 
contains nutritives enough to warrant using it in place of meat. 
It also produces a pleasant change in one's diet, 

Food value of fish. .... . - , 

and IS enticmg to the appetite, often much more 
so than meat is. Then, it offers a variety incomparable to the 
latter. The Neapolitans, who eat everything living or breathing 
within the briny deep, call \X. frufti di mare (fruit of the sea), a 
fit figure of speech, it seems to me, for shell-fish of any sort. 
In thinking about the abounding food offered by sea and river 
 salt and sweet water  and the succulent meals to be de- 
rived therefrom, one might rather wish for the strict Lenten fare 
of former times. We owe many a first-rate recipe to those days. 
To make it clear to you what nutrients you have in different 
kinds of fish, I again give you a table :  

Albuminoids. Fats. W.\ter. Mineral Matters. 

Pike 18.5 0.5 80.0 i.o 

Salmon 16.0 6.5 76.5 I.o 

Codfish 17.0 0.4 81.0 1.6 

Eel 13.0 28.5 57.3 I.o 

Green herring 17.8 10.3 70.0 I.9 

Pickled herring 19.0 18.0 46.4 16.5 

Smoked salmon 24.2 12.3 51.5 I2.0 

Sardines, salted 23.0 3.0 540 20.0 

Salted codfish 30.0 0.4 49. 6 20.0 

Dried codfish, not salted. . 80.0 1.0 17.5 I.5 

Smoked herring 21.0 8.5 69.3 I.5 

You will notice that fresh fish contains a larger percentage 
of water than does meat, while cured fish makes a strikingly 
128 



LETTER XVI 129 

good show of albuminoids and mineral matters. The latter, 
however, are largely owing to the salt used in preserving them. 
The highest percentage of nutrients is found in dried codfish, 
and both it and herring furnish the greatest amount of nour- 
ishment for the least amount of money. They have, however, 
to be accompanied by an adequate percentage of carbohy- 
drates to satisfy the demands of the human system. Thus the 
poorer classes of Europe instinctively eat their salted herring 
with potatoes ; while in this country we have the codfish-balls, 
consisting of part potatoes. 

You will also notice the large percentage of fats which is 
found in some fish, especially eel. Fish of that sort is harder 
to digest, and on that account not rated as high for nourishing 
a tender stomach as fish less fat (for instance, pike), even if 
their nitrogenous substance should be of a lower grade. 

Fish is either boiled, broiled, baked, or fried. In all cases 
it is to be treated on the same principle as meat. When put 
to boil in cold water, fish, like meat, will part with 

, 1 1  1 -11  1 1 How to cook fish. 

Its best substances, which will go to enrich the 
water it is cooked in. To make a soup of it or a fish -jelly 
(which is very delicate), this would be the right way; but to 
boil fish which is to be eaten, it is necessary to put it into boil- 
ing water. To know the right moment when a fish is done, is 
not such an easy affair as you might think. It depends not 
merely on the size of the fish, but also on its kind, on the 
nature of the water it has lived in, on the time passed since it 
was killed, and on the water in which it is boiled. An under- 
done fish is disgusting, while an over-done one is tasteless and 
mostly tough. After fifteen minutes from the time a fish has 
been put on the fire, one has to be on the watch. If the fish 
is small or thin, it most likely will not stand a second's longer 
cooking. If large, it may need half an hour to be well done, 
or even more. Experience and a certain fine instinct have to 
guide you. One sign  and a pretty safe one  is to try a fin. 
If it gives way easily to a slight pull, the fish is done. Fish, 
hke meat which is to be dished up, has to be kept simmering 
rather than boiling after its first immersion in lively boihng 



130 LETFERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

water. After it is cleaned, it must not be kept soakmg in 
cold water. Some salt-water fishes are better for sprinkling 
them with salt inside and outside for about one hour before 
cooking them. The salt, of course, has to be washed off again. 
Be sure that your fish is always as fresh as possible. It decom- 
poses quickly, and then is very harmful. Never buy a fish 
whose eyes are dull-looking, or the gills of which are not of a 
fine red color. It is best, of course, when put on the fire as 
soon as caught and killed ; but this luxury is within the reach 
of but a minority of people. 

To boil fish, well-salted water with the addition of a cupful 
of vinegar is generally the right medium. In some cases, how- 
ever, the addition of a bouquet of herbs, an onion, and a little 
spice is preferable. A good recipe for this ''cradle " of boiled 
fish, as Grimod de la Reyniere calls it, is the following :   

Court-Bouillon to boil Fish in.  For three pints of water 
take one-half pint of cider vinegar, one large carrot, two onions, 
two cloves, one teaspoonful of pepper seeds, two bay leaves, and 
enough salt to make it strongly taste of it (about three table- 
spoonfuls). When it boils put in your fish. 

Keep this in mind, and all I have said before, and you will 
be able to boil pretty nearly all kinds of fish without trouble. 
Fish is nice enough boiled whole, well garnished, and served 
with potatoes and a good sauce ; but it is pleasant to vary the 
method, for the sake of which I proceed to give you some 
special recipes which will enable you to diversify the process by 
applying the given methods to other kinds of fish, or to alter 
them according to your needs and likings. A few of them 
will be convenient for breakfast. I take for granted, of course, 
that you get your fish of the fish dealer, well prepared and 
cleaned. 

Striped Bass, stuffed and baked.  Make a stuffing of one 
stale breakfast roll, one tablespoonful of butter, the roes of the 
fish (or if it has none, of a carp or some other sweet-water 
fish), two eggs, a teaspoonful of minced parsley, and a salt- 
spoonful of salt. Soak the roll in milk, and press it until dry 
in a napkin ; melt the butter, and pour it over the bread. Mix 



LETTER XVI 131 

well ; then add the eggs, stir until light, after which you add 
the roes chopped beforehand, the parsley, and salt. Try a 
little of this stuffing by putting it into boiling water for five 
minutes. If too soft, add some bread-crumbs, if too stiff, a 
little cream. Fill it into the fish, and sew it up. Now put 
a tablespoonful of butter into a dripping-pan, slice one onion, 
one carrot, one celery root, and add to it some bunches of 
parsley ; arrange so as to make a bed of them for the fish to 
lie on, and cover the latter up with a sheet of paper buttered 
on both sides. Bake for one hour in a slow oven, adding a 
little water from time to time, and baste the fish frequently. 
When done, lift it on a hot platter, carefully remove the stitches, 
and garnish with parsley, pieces of lemon, and anything else 
your taste dictates. Serve it with a sauce ; we ^ 

^ . Sauce 

will say a Hollandaise. To make it, put the yolks Hoiiandaise 
of two eggs into a skillet, which you place in a 
vessel with boiling water. Add a cupful of the liquid left in 
the fish-pan, after it has been strained and the fat taken off. 
Stir all the while with a wire whisk. Cut a tablespoonful of 
butter into little pieces, and add them one by one ; salt to 
taste ; put in a sprinkle of nutmeg, and the juice of half a 
lemon, if liked. Stir until thick ; do not let it curdle, and serve 
as soon as done. 

In the same way you can bake red-snapper, carp, shad, and 
lake-pike. 

The best lake-pike I have ever eaten was in Switzerland, 
near the lake of Geneva. I asked for the recipe, and here 
it is :  

Stewed Pike.  Take a good-sized fish ; put it v/hole into a 
fish-kettle with about a quart of good rich broth, two onions, 
each stuck with one clove, a bunch of parsley, and four or five 
thick slices of bread as large as the palm of your hand. Cover 
it up well. When half done  that is, in about a quarter of 
an hour from the time it began to boil  add a pint and a half 
of some good white wine (cold). When entirely done, place 
the fish carefully on a hot platter, remove onions and parsley 
from the Hquor in which the fish was boiling, and add to it the 



132 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

yolks of about three eggs beaten light in a little cream (or 
milk). Do not let it curdle, and do not break up the bread 
any more than you can help. Put the latter around the fish 
by means of a cake-lifter, and pour as much of the sauce ever 
it as the dish will hold. The rest you serve in a boat. I have 
cooked shad this way, and also found it delicious. 

By boiling pike simply in salted water, you can have a very 

pretty dish, if you put the tail of the fish into its mouth, thus 

shaping it into a ring. You have to do this when 

Ringed pike. ^ r  ^ e- -i  ^ ^ t 

raw, before puttmg the fish mto boihng water. In 
this case you need, of course, a round pot in which to boil your 
fish. When done, serve it on a round platter, and fill the space 
inside the ringed fish with small round potatoes cooked in salted 
water. Pour over them some melted butter, in which a table- 
spoonful of minced parsley has been cooked for one or two 
seconds. 

Boil codfish or haddock in salted water, with the addition 
only of a little vinegar. Of cod the tail-piece is the favorite 
part. It is nicest served whole, with oyster sauce, 
haddock; how to For stcwcd codfish, cut a small cod into three or 
01 an stew. ^^^^^ cqual-sizcd pieces, wash them in salt water, 
and put them into a kettle with no more water than will cling 
to them. Add a blade of mace, a wineglassful of white cook- 
ing-v/ine, and two tablespoonfuls of butter divided in halves, 
one of them having a scant tablespoonful of flour rubbed into 
it. Add salt to taste, and at the very last a little white pepper 
(powdered). Let it cook slowly and well-covered for fifteen 
to twenty minutes, and serve the fish and sauce in the same 
dish. 

For a sauce to accompany either pike, cod, or haddock, I 
would recommend a mustard sauce. It is made simply by 
mixing and stirring over the fire two tablespoon- 
fuls of butter and one tablespoonful of French 
mustard, until just before the point of boiling. 

For boiled salmon take a middle piece, because there is 
little waste. Two pounds will be sufficient for eight persons. 
Take a heaped tablespoonful of butter, work one heaped tea- 



LETTER XVI 133 

spoonful of flour into it, and place it in the hollow side of the 
fish. Tie a napkin around it with twine, and boil it covered 
up with court-bouillon, to which add some wine, 

.- . , . , , . , , ,. , Boiled salmon 

if you wish to indulge in such luxury (for, accord- with parsley 
ing to Grimod, salmon  which he called the ^^'"^^' 
prince of the sea  is somewhat addicted to the use of spirits, 
and only cares for the best) . Your salmon needs about twenty- 
five minutes' gentle boiling. Take it out of the napkin, place 
it in the middle of a platter, and garnish with the finest sprigs 
of curled parsley you can get, to which you may add some 
pieces of lemon, little pofato balls, lobster claws, or anything 
harmonizing in taste and color. Serv^e it with a 

Parsley Sauce.  Take the yolks of two eggs, half a table- 
spoonful of flour, two tablespoonfuls of minced parsley, and one 
heaped tablespoonful of butter. Melt the butter, put in the 
rest and stir, with a little water, until quite smooth ; then add 
gradually, stirring all the while, three-quarters of a pint of the 
boiling-hot liquor in which the fish has been cooked. Allow 
to boil up just once, and serve in a boat. 

Another most delicious sauce for salmon is the foUowinsf, the 
recipe of which I owe to the wife of the landlord at Bad Gries- 
bach, in the Black Forest,. Germany. She called gay^g Genoise 
it sauce Genoise, Chop the lower tail-end of a ^'' salmon. 
salmon into several pieces, and saute it in a little butter, with 
the addition of one small onion, half a carrot (both sliced), a 
little bunch of parsley, half a bay leaf, two pepper seeds, one 
clove, and a mite of garlic. Take it off the fire before it gets 
brown ; pour off the butter, add one pint of good red wine, one 
salted sardine, and let it boil continuously for a quarter of an 
hour. Then pass the whole through a wire sieve, stir into it a 
piece of butter the size of half an ^gg, and serve. If a salted 
sardine cannot be had, a little anchovy paste added at the last 
will do instead. 

If any cooked salmon is left over, use it next day in this 
way : Divide it into nicely trimmed pieces, saute ^ luncheon dish 
them quickly on both sides in a little hot butter, o^ salmon, 
then serve them with a cold 



/ 



134 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

Sauce Remoulade.  Take the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs ; 
when cold, press them flat with a spoon, and stir them with a 
teaspoonful of vinegar until smooth. Add little by little one 
tablespoonful of olive oil and two tablespoonfuls of French 
mustard, then one teaspoonful of minced onion, two teaspoon- 
fuls of minced parsley, a pinch of white pepper, salt to taste, 
and, if not sufficiently sour, the juice of a lemon. This sauce 
will keep for days. 

Filet of Flounder a la Joinville is an extremely nice dish. 
Take two flounders, skin them, and cut the flesh off the bones 
with a sharp-pointed knife. Divide it into eight filets, which 
you roll up into eight little turbans. Fasten each with a wooden 
toothpick, to be removed before serving. Stew them slowly in 
one tablespoonful of butter, to which add a wineglassful of 
cider champagne, one small onion, a little lemon juice, three 
pepper seeds, and a pinch of salt. When done (in about fif- 
teen minutes) take out your filets carefully with a skimmer and 
arrange them on a hot dish. Place a button mushroom, heated 
in its own liquor, on top of each turban. Now throw a ball of 
butter and flour the size of half an egg into the boiling liquid, 
and when dissolved strain this sauce. Pour some of it around 
the filets and serve the rest in a boat. A very nice addition is 
to have some oysters cooked in their own juice with which to 
trim the filets. You may also color your sauce with a table- 
spoonful of melted crayfish or lobster butter.^ 

Fried fish is very good turned in salted flour, or salted egg 

and bread-crumbs, and then put into boiling hot fat to get 

brown. But most fish are really too fat to be 

To broil fish. , . , . , , , i -i i 

treated m this way ; they are much better broiled, 
as, for instance, shad, if not too large, mackerel, and eel. 
In broiling you follow the same rule I gave you for broiling 

meat, merely seeing that the fire is rather slow 

Broiled mackerel. , , . i /- ,   >-i -i i i 

and keeping the fish roasting on it until thoroughly 
done. Mackerel is best in the spring. The Spanish mackerel, 
coming up from the Southern States, is the most delicious, 

1 See p. 146. 



LETTER XVI 135 

but also the most expensive. Even the common kind is very 
acceptable when broiled. Wipe it dry with a towel after 
washing it. Rub the inside with some salt and pepper ; brush 
the fish on both sides with some olive oil (or melted butter) ; 
wrap it in a piece of white paper which is well oiled or but- 
tered, and put it on the gridiron. It will take from twenty 
to twenty-five minutes to get done. Then remove the paper, 
put the fish on a hot dish, and serve it with maitre d'hotel 
butter ^ spread over the top. 

To broil bloaters, soak them in half milk, half water, for an 
hour ; then pull off the skin. Wrap them in buttered paper 
and broil on a slow fire for five minutes on each 

. , ,. . T , , in Broiled bloaters. 

Side ; or divide them down the middle, remove 
the bones, put them on a flat dish, and pour on them some 
olive oil. At the time for serving put them on the gridiron and 
keep them on the fire for one or two minutes on each side. 

A halibut steak turned in salted Indian meal, pjsh steak 
and sautetdi in hot lard, is a nice dish, espe- 3"^^^<^- 
cially when served with oyster sauce. 

As it is a matter of importance to an economical house- 
keeper to know what to do with remnants of fish, How to use 
I mention the following ways in which to use remnants of fish. 
fish left over :  

No. I.  Butter a dish ; put into it in alternate layers thinly 
sliced boiled potatoes and fish picked into small pieces. 
Spread over each layer some plain bechamel sauce. Dust 
bread-crumbs over the top, and put in the oven to get brown 
for ten or fifteen minutes. Serve in the same dish. 

No. 2.  Remove carefully skin and bone of boiled fish; 
cut it into nice little pieces and pile it up pyramid-shape on a 
fiat dish. Now pour over it a bechamel sauce, made with cream 
or milk, to which a saltspoonful of anchovy paste has been 
added. Dust over the whole some grated Parmesan cheese, 
and sprinkle with melted butter. Put in a quick oven for a few 
minutes, or until of a nice brown color. 

1 See p. 74. 



136 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

No. 3.  Put mashed potatoes rim-like in a dish ; place some 
nice large pieces of boiled fish in the middle ; drop flakes 
of butter between the pieces here and there ; pour over it some 
thick cream, and dust it over with two-thirds bread-crumbs 
and one-third grated cheese. Put it into the oven to get 
heated and take color. 

No. 4.  To a cupful' of shredded fish take a cupful of 
mashed potatoes. Put both into a wooden bowl, and w^ork 
them to a paste with a potato masher, adding to it successively 
one egg, a tablespoonful of butter, and a cupful of milk. Add 
salt to taste, and continue working the whole until quite light. 
Fill it into a buttered gm/i/i-dish. and bake in a quick oven 
until light brown. Serve it either with a green salad, French 
dressing, or with a sauce of your choosing. 

No. 5.  After your cooked fish is freed of all bones and 
skin, cut it into small dice, and put these into shells. Make a 
white roux, thin it with broth and a little white wine (which 
may be replaced by lemon or orange juice) ; add salt, a sprinkle 
of white pepper, a little minced parsley, and a few mushrooms 
also minced. Cover up the fish with this sauce, put on top of 
each shell a flake of butter, and put in the oven for five minutes. 

There are some excellent French ways of stewing fish, which 

we might appropriate to our use. Famous among them is the 

Boidlle-abaisse of Southern France, Avhich inspired 

Bouille-abaisse. ,, ,  ^  ^ ^^ ^ r ^ t-i, 

1 hackeray to write his ballad of that name. But 
this dish, after afl, seems to have been more a convivial memory 
than a real enthusiasm, or he would have done better in describ- 

^  "A sort of soup, or broth, or brew, 

Or hotchpotch of all sorts of fishes, 
That Greenwich never could outdo." 

It sounds much more appetizing when we read of it in Mary's 
long poem, given by Monselet, which begins :  

" Pour le vendredi maigre, un jour, certaine abbesse 
D'un couvent marseillais crea la bouille-abaisse, 
Et jamais ce bienfait n'a trouve des ingrats 
Chez les peuples marins, qui n'aiment point le gras. 
Ce plat est un poeme."  



LETTER XVI lot 

[For a Friday's fast one clay the abbess gocd 
Of a convent in Marseilles created bouille-abaisse^ 
And the boon she conferred is remembered with praise 
By the men of the sea, who are partial to fish. 
The dish is a poem.  ] 

Then he goes on and describes in the most enticing man- 
ner how^ at first, a wonderful coidis is made of numerous htde 
fish and spice, and how, in this carefully prepared liquor, 
about half a dozen different kinds of fish are cooked and 
then served. The vulgarized j*ecipes for bouille-abaisse are 
nothing compared to it, and, on the whole, since we do not 
live on the borders of the Mediterranean, we had better leave 
this dish alone, and turn to the simpler and less expensive 
matelote, for which I will give you two different recipes to 
choose from. 

Bluefish en Matelote.  Cut the fish into pieces, put it into 
a stew-pan, add a bay leaf, six pepper seeds, a sprinkle of salt, 
one clove, and pour over it sufficient cheap claret to cover the 
fish. Let it come to a boil as quickly as possible. Meanwhile 
take a dozen small onions and saute them in butter until turned 
light brown. Take also a dozen small button mushrooms, a 
saltspoonful of salt, a sprinkle of pepper, a teaspoonful of 
lemon juice and the juice of the mushrooms; add all this to 
the onions, and allow the whole to stew mitil about three- 
quarters done. Now, when the fish has come to a boil, skim 
it, and add to the Hquor about a tablespoonful of butter, and 
as much of flour, both kneaded into a ball. This makes the 
sauce, which must neither be too thin, nor too thick, but have 
the right consistency. After the butter and flour have dis- 
solved, you add the onions, the mushrooms, and their liquor to 
the sauce, and allow the whole to simmer until the pieces of 
fish are quite done. You may add some shrimps at the last. 
Serve the pieces of fish wreath-wise on a round dish, and pour 
the sauce over it and into the centre. You may cook other 
kinds of fish in the same way. Or make a matelote of several 
kinds of fish. Take one fat, and the other lean, as for instance 
pike and whitefish, or salmon-trout and shad. 



138 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

Matelote of Perch.  Melt some butter in a stew-pan, and 
add some minced parsley and onion, and then your fish. Pour 
over it a pint of cider champagne, and when nearly done add 
a dozen or more oysters, a dozen clams, and some shrimps if 
you choose ; then let the whole simmer until done. This is 
a French recipe (called matelote 7ior??iande) , as is also the 
foregoing one. 

I end this letter with a recipe for fish in jelly, which is well 
worth the trouble of trying. I have found it useful many 
^. , . . ,, a time, when I wanted a pretty dish other than 

Fish in jilly. ^ ' 

meat on my tea or luncheon table. You can 
make this dish also of remnants of boiled fish, if they are 
left in good shape. Cut your fish into thick slices and boil 
them with several onions, pepper seeds, a bay leaf, salt, and 
some vinegar. When done and cool, arrange the pieces in a 
mould, placing in the bottom of the latter first of all some thin 
slices of lemon. Allow the liquor in which the fish was boiled 
to continue cooking, with head and tail of the fish added. 
After an hour's lively boiling strain it, add a cupful of good 
broth in which you have dissolved a heaped saltspoonful of 
Liebig, and the juice of half a lemon. Taste it if salt is needed. 
Place a tablespoonful of it on ice to see if it will jelly. If not, 
add some gelatine to stiffen it. Clear it,^ and pour over the 
fish in your mould. If you should be able to procure some 
branches of fresh tarragon, you will produce a very pretty effect 
by arranging them inside your mould, but outside of the fish, 
in the form of a light wreath. This you do before you fill up 
the mould with your jelly. The tarragon in addition will add 
its flavor to the dish. 

Of all the wealth of the fish-market, and the abundance of 
good recipes, I have shown you but a glimpse. You will learn 
by experience, and, to guide you on the road to it, I believe 
I have told you what is needful. 

1 See p. 80. 



LETTER XVII 

A dish that I do love to feed upon. 

 Shakespeare. 

I WOULD rather commence at once to tell you of shell-fish  
a delightful subject  if my conscience would let me. For 
I have not given you any instruction as yet about the prosaic, 
but very useful, cured cod. To prepare it for use, ^^^^^ ^^^ 
put it in cold water (skin upward, to allow the and how to 
salt to leave the fish), which change a few times, 
and soak for from twelve to twenty-four hours, according to 
the thickness of the fish. To cook it, put it in plenty of cold 
water (no salt), and place it on the stove, where it will get hot 
very slowly. It must not boil, or it will be tough. When quite 
hot, move the pot with the fish to a place still further removed 
from the fire, and let it steep there for half an hour longer. If 
the piece is from a fine large cod, it is to be served whole with 
a sauce Hollafidaise} At a New England coast town I have 
eaten it thus cooked, when it was exceedingly nice. It was 
ser\'ed with two sauces, one of drawn butter, and the other 
consisting of the pure fat rendered from salt pork, cut in small 
dice, and the cracklings left in. Besides, there were the 
mealiest of potatoes (cooked in salted water), sliced beets in 
vinegar, and hard-boiled eggs. It was a perfect meal. 

In a Capuchin monastery in southern Germany, dried codfish, 
after being freshened and cooked, is served with onions cut fine 
and fried in butter until yellow, and with a puree of dried peas. 

You may also shred salt codfish, after being cooked, into 
small pieces, and treat it like recipe No. 4 for using up rem- 
nants of fish.^ 

1 See p. 131. 2 See p. 136. 

139 



140 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

For Codfish Balls, chop even quantities of cooked fish and 
potatoes. Cut fat salt pork into dice, and render until partly 
melted ; then chop fine what is left of them and mix with the 
fish and potatoes. Form into balls and fry in the fat rendered 
from the pork scraps. This recipe will also make a nice hash. 
I owe it likewise to a good New England housewife. 

What has been said in praise of codfish as a nutrient cannot 
be said in favor of oysters ; and yet who would be willing to do 
without this "fruit of the sea"? Their large percentage of 
water (from So to 85 per cent) is the reason why oysters rank 
low in this respect. Still they make a show of about equal 
percentages of albuminoids and carbohydrates  a little more 
perhaps of the former than the latter  and a very fair show as 
to fat and mineral matter in proportion to them. If eaten in 
quantities they do very well for nutriment. They are easily 
digested if eaten raw, but less so when cooked. Oysters, there- 
fore, ought never to be more than just made hot ; the longer 
they stay on the fire the more the albumen they contain will 
harden, and be apt to interfere with a comfortable digestion. 

Oysters may be cooked in so many different styles, and are 
so easily gotten ready, that they are most convenient, and at 
the same time always welcome, for helping out 
S?differen*t whcn an uncxpectcd guest comes to share a meal 
ways of cook- y.^^]^ ^g^ qj. ^y^en provisions happen to run short for 
our daily fare. They are so delicious in taste and 
flavor that I would prefer to have them cooked mostly in their 
own liquor ; and if spice is to be used, to take a blade of mace 
only, since it seems to harmonize better with the aroma of the 
oyster than other kinds of spice. The addition of a little lemon 
juice, however, is to be recommended, since a slight acid helps 
to digest the albumen. 

The one way in which the flavor of the oyster when exposed 
to heat is preserved almost intact, is to roast them. To do 
this, get them on the half-shell with whatever juice they have, 
and place them side by side on a gridiron over a bright fire. 
Leave them on it just long enough to get hot and plump ; then 
serve on their shells. The next best way is to pan them. 



LETTER XVII 141 

Take the oysters with the juice that will adhere to them and 
put them in a shallow pan, in which a piece of butter has been 
melted. Put them in a moderately hot oven, and leave them in 
it until the beards begin to curl ; then serve. Always taste the 
oysters to see whether salt is needed. For broiled or panned 
oysters, a slight dusting over with white pepper might be liked. 

For tea or supper a dish of scalloped oysters is very nice. 
Drain your oysters, and see that no fragments of shell are left 
clinging to them. Take a gra/in-dish ; butter it ; put in a thin 
layer of rather coarse bread-crumbs, then a layer of the oys- 
ters with some bits of butter, some more bread-crumbs, and 
so on, until the oysters are all used up. Put a thick layer of 
crumbs on the top and sprinkle with melted butter. If the 
oysters appear rather dry, add some of their juice before put- 
ting on the top layer of crumbs. Some substitute a small 
wineglassful of sherry for the oyster liquor ; but this is a matter 
of taste. Bake the oysters in a moderately hot oven for about 
one hour. 

To make a plain oyster stew, boil and skim the oyster liquor 
first. Add a thickening of flour and butter rubbed together, 
or one of cracker-dust, adding the butter afterwards. Some 
like milk added to the juice of the oysters, and some do not. 
By adding milk you increase, of course, the nourishing proper- 
ties of the oyster stew. After the liquid is ready, put in 
your oysters, and let them get hot. If you intend to have a 
more perfect oyster stew, proceed in this way : Cut the 
beards off two dozen oysters. Sprinkle some lemon juice over 
the latter. Put the juice of the oysters and the beards on to 
boil, and skim well ; then add a blade of mace, a few pepper 
seeds and the peel of half a lemon shaved off; let it boil slowly 
for half an hour from the time it was put on the fire ; then 
strain the liquid and when boiling again put in a scant table- 
spoonful of butter, into which as much flour has been rubbed. 
Add also half a pint of cream (or milk) made hot beforehand. 
When the butter and flour is dissolved and the sauce quite 
smooth, put in your oysters. Allow them to get hot, but do 
not let them boil, and serve at once. 



142 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

If you wish to fry oysters, take large ones, drain them, turn 
them first in some flour, then in an egg beaten up, and lastly 
in some bread or cracker crumbs. Throw them into some boil- 
ing hot lard and leave in only long enough to turn light brown. 

For broiling oysters also take large ones ; turn them in bread- 
crumbs, and put them on a well-greased, double wire gridiron. 
Have a bright coal fire, and broil them for one or two minutes, 
first on one side, then on the other. Have a hot dish, with a 
piece of butter melting on it, to receive them, and serve at once. 

For an oyster fricassee proceed as for the oyster stew second 
in number, with this difference, that you add the yolks of two 
or three eggs, beaten up beforehand, to the liquid, and stir it 
over the fire until it thickens. Add also a little lemon juice. 
Do not let it boil, or it will curdle. This recipe you may use 
likewise for oysters on scallop-shells. Strew bread-crumbs over 
the oysters and sauce with which you have filled your shells, 
and place them in the oven to brown on top. Or fill with 
them some puff-paste patties, which are exceedingly nice. 
You may serve an oyster stew on pieces of toast, which makes 
a nice breakfast dish. If you have some oyster liquor left, 
thicken it with flour and butter rubbed together, add milk or 
cream, and pour it over some hot toast for breakfast or lunch- 
eon. If you wish to keep the oyster liquor until the following 
day, be sure and scald it, or it will not keep. You may also 
add it to a soup made of broth. If cooked oysters are left 
over, they give a pleasant flavor to a hash made of meat, if 
chopped fine with it. 

For oyster sauce, make a bechamel with the juice of the 
oysters and add some cream. Season with a little 
ys er sauce. xi\-2iQ.Q aud whitc pepper, and when done put in 
some oysters, taking care that they do not harden. 

Clams have the advantage of being fit to eat when oysters 

are not. They afford a good broth, especially for invalids ; 

but clams themselves are hard to digest, unless 

they are boiled just two or three minutes, and 

then even the soft part only is fit to eat. A clam chowder 

is delicious when made as I once ate it in New England. 



LETTER XVII 143 

Clam Chowder.  Take a quarter of a pound of fat salt 
pork, cut it into small dice, and put it on the fire until broAvn 
and crisp. Chop a small onion, and throw into the pork fat 
to turn yellow. Have ready a soup-plateful of raw potatoes 
very thinly sliced. Put them into a deep stew-pan, strain over 
them the fat from the pork, and add the liquor from a quart of 
clams. Boil slowly until the potatoes are quite done. Mean- 
while take your clams and boil them for three minutes and no 
longer in one puit of water, adding one teaspoonful of salt. 
Drain them; but keep the water. Cut off the hard part of 
the clams and chop, then put them back into the strained 
water, and let boil for at least a quarter of an hour longer ; 
then drain them again, adding the water to the potatoes and 
clam liquor, and throwing away the hard part of the clams. 
Take their soft parts, and chop them also, but coarsely. Add 
a gill of boiling milk (or cream) to the potatoes, half a 
dozen water crackers, and lastly the chopped clams (soft 
parts). Season with pepper if you like, and a little powdered 
thyme. 

A lobster furnishes you with a very ornamental and palatable 
dish. To boil a lobster, have a large kettle three-quarters full 
of boiling water ; add four onions halved, a large How -to boii a 
bouquet of parsley, twenty pepper seeds, two bay '^s^er. 
leaves, salt at the rate of one heaped tablespoonful to every 
quart of water. Put in your lobster. Do it quickly, head 
foremost, which will kill it and end its torture at once. Let 
it boil for fifteen to twenty-five minutes, according to its size. 
When done, take it out, twist off the claws and tail, cleave 
into halves (lengthwise) body and tail, and remove from the 
latter the dark, stringy vein called *' lady-fingers," which is 
poisonous. Crack the claws on their lower sides and be care- 
ful not to disfigure them. Thus prepared, you may serve the 
lobster hot or cold, scalloped, as salad, croquettes, or in 
various other ways. If you wish to serve the lobster whole, 
you reconstruct it from its separate pieces, masking the flaws 
with sprigs of parsley. Serve it on a folded napkin in the 
middle of an oval platter ; garnish with parsley laid wreath- 



144 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

like around, and have either a tartar sauce or a mayonnaise 
accompany it.^ 

I will now give you some specified recipes for dishes made 
of lobster. 

Lobster Cutlets.  Take the meat of a boiled lobster and 
pound it in a mortar with one ounce and a half of butter (size 
of an egg), a saltspoonful of salt, half as much white pepper, 
and the coral of the lobster (if there is any). When it has 
turned to a smooth paste, it is ready to be formed into small 
cutlets, with a small lobster claw stuck in each. Dip into a 
beaten-up egg, and then turn them in some fine bread-crumbs. 
Repeat this after a minute or two, then sau/e the cutlets in hot 
butter, and serve them as a course by themselves. 

Lobster Stev/.  Cut the meat of a boiled lobster into 
slices, put it into a stew-pan with a saltspoonful of salt, a 
teaspoonful of French mustard, a tablespoonful of good cider 
vinegar, and two ounces of butter. Cover it up, and allow 
to stew over a moderate fire for about six minutes. Then add 
a wineglassful of white wine, and let stew another four to five 
minutes. At the last, sprinkle over with white pepper, then 
serve, and garnish with parsley and slices of lemon. 

Lobster Fricassee.  Cut a boiled lobster into pieces about 
an inch square, and break up the shells into little pieces by 
means of pestle and mortar. ]\Ielt and make hot three ounces 
of butter ; add to it the shells, and when the whole bubbles up 
stir into it a heaped tablespoonful of flour. After it thickens, 
add broth sufficient to give it the consistency of a sauce, and 
let all boil slowly for half an hour, then strain through a hair 
sieve. Return it to the fire, add the meat of the lobster and 
the yolks of two eggs beaten up in a little cream. Stir over 
the fire until hot, but do not let it come to a boil. You may 
add to the sauce some asparagus points cooked beforehand in 
salted water, or some balls made of bread-crumbs^ or fish; or 
both, balls and asparagus. The fish balls you make in this 
way : Take three tablespoonfuls of bread-crumbs ; moisten 

1 See pp. 74 and 153. 2 See p. 27. 



LETTER XVII 145 

them with broth, and stir over the fire until bubbling up. Then 
remove from the fire, and mix into them about six ounces of 
cooked fish freed from skin and bones, one whole 
egg and the yolk of another one, some salt and 
pepper, a little grated nutmeg, and a teaspoonful of minced 
parsley. Make a thick and smooth paste of all this by working it 
over and over with a wooden pestle. Then form into little balls, 
which boil in some broth for about five minutes, or until done. 

Baked Lobster.  Chop the meat of a boiled lobster. Chop 
also two or three shallots (or a slice of onion) and put into 
three ounces of melted and boiling hot butter. Then remove 
to the side of the stove, and let the shallots simmer until soft, 
when you add the chopped lobster, a saltspoonful of salt, a 
sprinkle of pepper, a teaspoonful of minced parsley, a httle 
minced tarragon, if you have any ; and, lastly, four eggs beaten 
light beforehand. Stir and mix over the fire, without allowing 
it to boil. Put this mixture into a buttered ^rafin-di^h, cover 
it with bread-crumbs, sprinkle with melted butter, and bake 
in a moderately hot oven. You may serve with it a sauce Hol- 
landaise ^ colored with some of the lobster coral. Should you 
have the right number of lobster-shells  one for each person 
 fill them with the mixture, and bake it in them. 

Creamed Lobster.  Chop the meat of the boiled lobster, put 
it into a sauce-pan, add a saltspoonful of salt, half as much 
white pepper, a tablespoonful of white wine, and as much vinegar. 
Let it get hot, then add one ounce of butter (size of half an ^gg) 
mixed with a heaped teaspoonful of flour and a gill of cream. 
Stir the whole over the fire, allowing it to cook gently for ten min- 
utes. You may serve this also in lobster-shells, but do not bake. 

Lobster is delicious with a mayonnaise sauce, and as a salad. 
But I defer giving you the recipe for it until I talk to you about 
salads in general and in particular. I will add, however, the 
recipe for a 

Lobster Sauce.  Chop very fine the coral of a boiled lob- 
ster, together with two anchovies. Moisten it with some broth, 

1 See p. 131. 



146 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

and add a piece of butter the size of a walnut. Rub it through 
a hair sieve. Take as much of the coral as will give a fine red 
color to a /^cr/iamc/ sauce. Flavor with a little lemon juice, and 
add to it a heaped tablespoonful of the lobster meat cut into 
small dice. If you cannot procure any anchovies, take anchovy 
Lobster butter P^'^^^^ ^hc sizc of a large pea. AV hat is left of the 
lobster coral you may mix with some more melted 
butter and set away for further use. It will do instead of cray- 
fish butter which I recommended to you for some recipes. 

Now, before closing my lesson on fish, I want to say some- 
thing about a generally discarded amphibiam,  the frog, of 
Fro s' le s '^vhich the hind legs alone come in question. They 
are said to be nourishing and very easily digested. 
Dr. Wiel, who was a famous specialist for diseases of the 
stomach, recommends them highly for invalid diet, either 
stewed or in soup. I give you the following recipe for stewed 
frogs' legs, which I take from a German cook-book devoted to 
Lenten fare :  

Remove the toes of the frogs' legs and wash them clean. 
Make a sauce of butter and flour, thinned with water and fla- 
vored with lemon peel and juice. Put the frogs' legs into this 
sauce and let them stew until tender. When done, add the 
yolks of two eggs. 

They are also good this way : Cook the frogs' legs until 
tender in some water, to which you add salt, a bunch of thyme, 
an onion, and a little vinegar. Do not use any more water 
than just enough to cover them. Strain the liquid and pour 
over the frogs' legs before you serve them. Saute some 
bread-crumbs in a little butter, and, when brown, spread them 
on the top. 

You may also treat them as a friture, either dipping them 
in batter,^ or merely turning them in egg and fine bread-crumbs, 
before frying them. But, of course, cooked in this way they 
are less digestible. 

^^ Bastal'" says the Italian  "enough for to-day." 

1 See p. 78. 



LETTER XVIII 

Let olives, endives, mallows light 
Be all my fare. 

 Horace. 

Eat cress, and have more wit. 

 Greek Proverb. 

I AM glad to hear that now you think yourself prepared with 
all my teachings to give a dinner party. There is, how- 
ever, one thing more which you have first to learn, and that is 
to plan and dress a salad. I have a long lesson in store for 
you,  a pleasant task,  for I count it a very important part 
of culinary art, and a delightful accomphshment, to make a 
salad in perfection. 

There are raw, cooked, and mixed salads. But lettuce is 
the salad par excellence, and cannot be recommended suffi- 
ciently for its refreshing, its wholesome, and cool- ^ 

-' _ _ ^' ' General re- 

ing qualities. Cooked vegetables, fish, and meats, marks about 
when made into salads, either by themselves or 
mixed, can be made very tempting ; but for a healthy diet I 
would recommend only the green salads and the cooked vege- 
tables simply dressed. They yield material for a large variety 
of salads and give you an opportunity for testing your talent. 

In our country, with its succulent vegetables, green salad is 
not yet introduced as generally as it deserves. During our hot 
summers especially it ought to be part of the principal meal, at 
least. Brillat-Savarin says: "Salad refreshes without debili- 
tating, and comforts without irritating. I am in the habit of 
saying that it is rejuvenating." We find, however, a much 
earlier appreciation of salad  the lactuca of the Romans  
in Greek authors, where it is praised as soothing, fortifying the 
stomach, and favoring sleep. 

147 



148 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

This latter, by the by, reminds me of a little incident occur- 
ring years ago. It was June time. We lived in the country 
and had a guest at our table,  a distinguished pioneer and 
general. At dinner I had served with the roast a lettuce salad, 
which was fresh from the garden, and prepared and dressed 
with my own hands,  as I thought, in the most tempting way. 
But, when offered, our guest declined to take it, remarking that 
the opium contained in the lettuce leaves was apt to make him 
inopportunely drowsy. This was news to me ; nor do I find it 
stated anywhere that opium really exists in lettuce. The milky 
juice of the stem, because resembling that of poppies, seems to 
have led to this belief This juice, most likely, is the vehicle 
for the nutritives contained in salad, and the fresher the latter, 
the juicier and consequently the more nutritious it is. Accord- 
ing to Liebig, lettuce has of alkalies 23 to 24 per cent of its 
dry substances. But when we consider that it has 94 parts of 
water in every 100, we cannot place it very high as a nutritive. 
Its usefulness, like that of other green and vegetable salads, lies 
in another direction, as indicated above ; while the defect of it, 
and of all of them, is easily remedied, if we add the nutri- 
ents they are deficient in. The best accompaniment, there- 
fore, for green salad is eggs in any form you please ; and is 
there a prettier sight, on the table, than a dish full of green 
curly leaves of lettuce set off with quarters of hard-boiled 
eggs? 

Aside from lettuce, we have herbs for salad. An old parch- 
ment volume of 1691, in my possession, enumerates sixty-two 
kinds of them for a famous herb salad. I would not want you 
to go to that extent ; nor would you be able to procure most 
of them in our days. I merely wish to call your attention to 
certain tender herbs which our markets now afford. They are 
principally water-cress, peppergrass, field salad, borage, chicory, 
dandelion, and they make a nice salad each by itself, as well as 
intermixed ad libifum. With the exception of dandelion they 
also garnish beautifully every kind of salad. The latter in its 
wild state makes a wholesome salad in the spring, when the 
first fresh shoots appear on meadows and fields, and you dig 



LETl'ER XVIII 149 

for the plant deep enough to get part of the root. The tender, 
clover-hke leaf of the oxalis {oxa/is acetosella), which is to 
be found in the woods during the summer, will also furnish 
you with a slightly acid and refreshing salad. The following 
herbs are what the French call ^^fournitures de salade " 
(trimmings for salad): water-cress, peppergrass, chervil, chives, 
tarragon, pimpernel (garden burnet), balm-mint and borage. 
Add to all these the orange-tinted flowers of nasturtium and 
the blue blossoms of borage, which you may either make into 
a salad by themselves, dressing them with oil, vinegar, and 
salt, or use for a garnish, and you must acknowledge that 
you never need be in trouble about having an enticing and 
even artistic dish of salad on your table. The Italians, who 
are extremely fond of salad, use for it almost anything green 
they can find. AVhen in Northern Italy once in early spring, 
I met during my walk a little black-eyed peasant girl filling her 
apron full of the sprouting shoots of clematis growing on a 
hedge. I curiously inquired the purpose of it, to which she 
replied, ^^ Per far insalata'^ (to make salad of). But the 
French were the first to excel in salad-making. Many a distin- 
guished Frenchman prided himself on his proficiency in this 
art ; and let me tell you here of my belief that it takes the 
fine sensibiHties of a gentleman or a lady to make a really good 
salad. Ordinary cooks and servants are incapable of compre- 
hending even the first principles of it. When the French Revo- 
lution drove the aristocrats from their country, some of them 
made their living, and even their fortunes  like D'Albignac  
by the making of salads. 

" Tu sais que pour la salade 
J'ai les soins d'un emigre " 
(You know I have for the salad 
The emigrant's cares), 

writes Monselet in "Z*? diner que je veiix faii-e^'' (the dinner I 
want to devise). 

To dress a salad is not as easy a task as you might think. 
The so-called " French dressing," of oil, vinegar, and salt, seems 



150 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

to be such a simple affair ; but unless you take each of these 
elements in exactly the right proportion to each other and the 
salad to be dressed, the result will not be the desired one. 
To be an expert, you have to divine by instinct how much 
to take of each. I never allow a servant even 
How to prepare to touch the Icavcs of the salad I have served at 

lettuce for salad, 

and how to table, for to have the salad to perfection the touch 

dkess^mg.'^ ^'" must bc light, the fingers to trim and arrange 
must be nimble. First take leaf by leaf, throwing 
away the outside and coarse ones, and removing all imperfec- 
tions of those fit for use ; then put them in a deep dish full of 
cold water to rinse them, one by one, transferring them at the 
same time into a large colander. This done, take the latter 
with both hands and toss the leaves lightly up and down in it, 
which will free them from the water chnging to them. Now 
put the colander on a plate and remove the whole to the re- 
frigerator ; but do not let it come in contact with the ice, which 
would chill the salad to such a degree as to rob it of its char- 
acteristic flavor. There you leave it standing for an hour, or 
until near dinner-time, when it will have turned deliciously 
crisp. Then take up once more leaf after leaf, dividing the 
larger ones carefully into halves and arranging them in a salad- 
bowl, wreath within wreath, like a full-blown rose. It will 
depend on your skill and inspiration to vary your salad by 
intermingling or garnishing it with one or more herbs of a 
darker green, the white and yellow of eggs, the tender pink of 
radishes, the pale green of thinly sliced cucumbers, the flowers 
of nasturtium, etc. Suppose you have done this to your sat- 
isfaction, you put your salad-bowl once more in the refriger- 
ator, with distinct orders to leave it there until the time comes 
for placing it on the table, to be dressed dexterously with your 
own hands, to the delight of your husband and your guests, if 
guests there be. As to the dressing itself, I have told you 
already that instinct will have to teach you more than any 
recipe can do, but, in a general sense, I can recommend the 
following proportions for a plain French dressing : Take, for 
a heaped soup-plateful of salad, a heaped saltspoonful of salt, 



LETTER XVIII 151 

three tablespoonfals of oil, and one tablespoonful of vinegar. 
Put the salt in your spoon first, then the oil (which must be of 
the best) ; mix the two with your salad-fork, and pour over 
the salad ; then mix with the latter, and after adding the vine- 
gar, mix again thoroughly. If the vinegar is not very sharp, 
add the juice of half a lemon. A sprinkle of white pepper 
mixed in with the oil is also recommendable, as well as a slight 
addition of mushroom catsup mixed in with the vinegar. 
Whenever I want to add some other ingredients to the plain 
dressing, I mix them beforehand with the vinegar needed, and 
pour the mixture, ready for use, in the empty vinegar-cruet of 
the caster. 

If you^ wish to dress your lettuce salad with mayonnaise, it 
is best to put the latter in the bottom of the salad-bowl and to 
arrange the salad on top of it, allowing the sauce to show in 
the centre. In that case you have but to mix the salad after 
it comes to the table. I will give you some recipes for mayon- 
naise and other salad sauces by and by. 

A salad of herbs  endives (of which the escarol is the best 
kind), water-cresses, dandelion, and field (or corn) salad  ig 
always at its best when merely dressed with salt, 

,.,_,,. . , , About the dress- 

vmegar, and oil. li,ndives are improved by put- ing of herb 
ting them into warm (not hot) water for a short 
time, then rinsing them in cold water. It somewhat lessens their 
bitter flavor. Dandelion ought always to be a salad by itself. 
Its bitter and pungent flavor does not harmonize with any other 
herb or vegetable. Tarragon vinegar, substituted for plain vine- 
gar, is the only deviation in the above dressing which is per- 
mitted. Field (or corn) salad does not allow as much oil as 
other salads do. It is improved by the addition of a cooked 
potato, grated and mixed into the plain dressing. Water- cresses 
are spoiled by too much vinegar ; they bear but a sprinkle of it. 
A famous firm of gardeners in Germany, who make the culture 
of water-cresses one of their specialties, give the following direc- 
tions for dressing them : Pick and rinse them two or three hours 
before meal-time. Shake them dry, and squeeze the juice of 
half a lemon over a quart of them. Add one tablespoonful 



152 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

of oil, and a small onion minced fine. No vinegar. Mix well 
and let stand in a cool place until served. 

Apart from the exceptions stated, you may, of course, vary 
your dressing as much as the composition of your salads. I 
More substantial ^^'i^^ gi^c you uow a Small numbcr of varied salad 
dressings. drcssiugs or sauccs to use at your own discretion. 

I begin with the "oft repeated, because never to be forgotten, 
recipe of Sydney Smith :  

" Two boiled potatoes pressed through kitchen sieve 
Smoothness and softness to the salad give. 
Of mordant mustard add a single spoon, 
Distrust the condiment that bites too soon; 
But deem it not, thou man of herbs, a fault 
To add a double quantity of salt. 
Three times the spoon with oil of Lucca crown, 
And once with vinegar procured from town; 
The flavor needs it, and your poet begs 
The pounded yellow of two well-boiled eggs. 
Let onion atoms lurk within the bowl, 
And  scarce suspected  animate the w^hole. 
And lastly, o'er the flavored compound toss 
A magic spoonful of anchovy sauce ; 
Then, though green turtle fail, though venison's tough, 
And ham and turkey are not boned enough, 
Serenely full, the epicure may say, 
' P'ate cannot hurt me  I have dined to-day.' " 

This recipe, in its quaint form, gives you the base for other 
varieties of salad dressing when you lack time to make a 
mayonnaise, and yet wish to have something more than a plain 
dressing. A very excellent variety is the following :  

Take two or three hard-boiled eggs, rub them to a paste, 
and add gradually about five tablespoonfuls of oil, one tea- 
spoonful of French mustard, a sprinkle of white pepper, three 
to four tablespoonfuls of vinegar, and either a tablespoonful of 
minced cives, or capers. You may also leave out the mustard, 
take less oil and vinegar, and add half a cupful of cream. 

A very excellent dressing, also, is the following :  

Take the yolks of one hard-boiled and one raw egg, one tea- 
spoonful of French mustard^ one saltspoonful of salt, three to 



LETTER XVIII 153 

four tablespoonfuls of oil, one tablespoonful each of cider and 
of tarragon vinegar, half a teaspoonful each of anchovy essence 
and mushroom catsup, and one heaped tablespoonful of minced 
parsley, chervil, pimpernel (garden burnet) and tarragon mixed. 
Stir until perfectly smooth. The herbs you may omit, if you 
choose. 

The mayonnaise dressing or sauce has to be prepared with 
greater care to make it a success. For a fish or meat salad 
I prefer the following mayonnaise : Boil four eofofs 

r rr  i  11 1 Three different 

for fifteen mmutes ; put them m cold water, and mayonnaise 
when cool take the yolks and mash them to a '^^^'"^s- 
paste. Now take two ounces of freshest butter ; let it get soft 
enough to beai: it to a cream (always beating in the same 
direction). Add to it, little by little, the above egg; and 
afterward, also very gradually, the raw yolks of three eggs, 
stirring vigorously all the time. See that the raw eggs are not 
cold, lest your butter should curdle. If it does, add the raw 
yolk of another egg. Add salt and vinegar (or lemon juice) 
to taste. If the mixture has not enough consistency, add some 
olive oil, drop by drop. 

Another very excellent recipe is this : Take four raw yolks 
and put them into a porcelain dish. Place this dish on ice. 
Stir into the yolks half a pint of olive oil by taking a teaspoon- 
ful at a time and allowing it to mix drop by drop with the egg. 
Just as soon as the latter begins to thicken, add a few drops 
of lemon juice ; then proceed to mix in another teaspoonful 
of oil and more of the lemon juice, until all the oil is absorbed. 
The occasional adding of the lemon juice prevents the curdling 
of the sauce. Add salt to taste, and, if you like, a little tarragon 
vinegar. Keep in a cold place until used. 

For a quickly made mayonnaise I can recommend the fol- 
lowing recipe :  

Take the yolks of two eggs and the juice of half a lemon. 
Stir until thickening, when add salt, oil, and vinegar in pro- 
portions given above. If made in this way you need not 
be particular about adding the oil drop by drop : be care- 
ful only not to add it in larger quantities than a teaspoonful 



154 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

at a time. This is the best mayonnaise dressing for green 
salads. 

All these recipes you had better follow closely at first, until 
by and by you may vary them at your needs, or as your 
inspiration leads you. 

A slight addition of wine is often a great improvement. 
Some experts also will put a small piece of brown or rye bread 
in the bottom of the dish to give a peculiar flavor to the 
salad, and for those who like a taste of onion, or garlic, you 
may either rub the bread or the sides of the salad-dish with a 
slice of onion or a bit of garlic. These little fine touches, and 
how and when to apply, you have to learn by yourself. This 
is the case also in regard to mixed salads, for which I will give 
you a few recipes merely as suggestions upon which to produce 
your own variations and "compositions." 

I begin with some plain ones and keep the more elaborate 
recipes for the last : Take some endives, well blanched ; sepa- 
rate the branches from the stem, cleanse and rinse well, then 
put in warm water for a short time. Drain well, and arrange 
in the centre of a salad-bowl. Then surround it with water- 
cress dressed beforehand in the shape of a wreath. Finish the 
dish with an outside rim of beet salad. 

The latter ought to be always at hand in your store-closet. 
In winter, when green salad is scarce, beets can be resorted to. 
^ , . . They make a salad, either by themselves, or in 

Combinations \n ' ' ' ' 

salads, and how Combination with potatoes, celery root, meat, or 
pic e ees. ^^^ Take for this purpose the large, dark red 
beets, and boil them as indicated in my instructions on vege- 
tables.^ When cool, peel them and cut them into slices a 
quarter of an inch thick. Have a stone jar ready, and place 
into it your beets layer-wise, putting between each layer a few 
scraps of horse-radish, and two or three black pepper seeds. 
Pour boiling vinegar enough over the whole to cover it. It will 
keep for months, if put in a cool place. When needed for use, 
take out with a silver fork the desired number of shces, and dress 
with salt, vinegar, and oil. 

1 See p. 121. 



LETTER XVIII 155 

A combined beet and celery root salad is very palatable. 
Boil the latter, after cleansing it well, in slightly salted water. 
Do not let it get too tender. Drain and remove all specks and 
fibrous matter on the outside. Cut into slices like beets, and 
pour over them while still warm a dressing of a good deal of 
oil and vinegar, and a sprinkle of pepper and salt. If kept in 
a cool place, this salad will keep for two or three days. 

Celery root, on the other hand, combines well with red 
cabbage, which you shred as fine as possible after removing 
the thick ribs. Mix into it a plain dressing. Do About cabbage 
it a few hours before use, which will improve the s^'^<^s- 
salad. Heap up the cabbage in the middle of a dish, and let 
the wheels of celery root form the outer rim. This, also, is a 
nice winter salad, when green things fail or are too high- 
priced. 

A cheap salad is made of white cabbage. Take a firm head 
only. For a family of three, one-quarter of it will be sufficient 
to make a good dishful. Shred it fine, and, if very young, 
dress it a couple of hours before meal-time with a plain dress- 
ing. Some boiled potatoes sliced and minced with it are a 
good addition. You may also combine white and red cabbage 
in different rims, and have the potato salad in the centre. In 
winter, when cabbage is old, it is better to scald the white 
cabbage by pouring over it some boiling water, in which to 
leave it for about fifteen minutes. Then drain the water off, 
and pour over your shredded cabbage, while still warm, the 
mayonnaise dressing quickly made, for which I gave you 
the recipe. This is a slight variation on the " cold slaw " (th.e 
proper name in Dutch is koolsla), known among our country 
population, especially in Pennsylvania. 

Other vegetables, also, may be appropriated for salads after 
they are boiled. Some roses of cauliflower left over, some 
asparagus, strinsf-beans, even carrots, green peas, 

\ . . ' ^ ' . , , , Boiled veffetables 

and aried beans, you may use, either by them- for saiad, and 
selves or in combination, for an attractive-looking 
salad. Be sure, however, to have all these vegetables dressed 
a while beforehand, in order to have them impregnated by 



156 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

their dressing. If you omit this, they will taste flat. And 
never have them icy cold. It kills their flavor. A certain 
medium between cold and warm favors them best. Keep the 
latter rules in mind, also, for potato salad, for which I will give 
you some recipes in my next letter. For the present I close 
with one more recipe  and a very good one  for a com- 
bination salad, which will at the same time teach you a few 
more things. 

Take cucumbers, string-beans, and lettuce of equal propor- 
tions. Peel and slice cucumbers from the stem downward. 
When you sret near the end, taste it to see that it 

An excellent -  . . i, , i  i  

combination is uot bittcr j it IS generally the end only which is 

to treat" ^ apt to be SO, while the rest is perfectly good. Slice 
cucumbers. ^j^^^^^ ^.^^^ ^j^-^^^ -j^^ ^^^ ^qJ^^^^, ^^^ oM-fashioued 

wav of salting the slices and extracting the juice. The latter 
is the only really useful and digestible part of the cucumber and 
the very substance of it which is so refreshing and cooling 
when eaten. The rest is merely fibrous matter. On account 
of its highly cooling quality, the cucumber sometimes causes 
catarrh of the stomach ; therefore do not increase this danger 
by chilling it through contact with ice, but rather alleviate it 
by a free use of pepper. Use cucumbers only which you 
know are fresh, and prepare them just before dinner. The 
string-beans must be fresh also and very young. String them 
well on both sides, and, after washing them, throw them 
into boiling water, shghtly salted, and boil until just tender. 
Then drain, and cut into lozenge-shaped pieces one or two 
inches long. Dress them while warm with oil, salt, and vinegar. 
Do it a couple of hours before meal-time, and when arranging 
your salad for the table remove the beans to the salad-bowl 
without their dressing. Stir into the latter one or two grated 
potatoes boiled the day before, and use it with some additional 
oil, salt, and vinegar for the dressing of your well-arranged 
dishful of the above ingredients. 



LETTER XIX 

Let none assume the art of entertaining at table, 
If he has not penetrated into the secret of tastes. 

 Horace. 

WHEN I began to tell you about salads, I meant to have 
clone with them in one letter. But very soon I found 
that to do it justice, and instruct you thoroughly, another letter 
would have to be written. If I read your mind rightly, you 
will submit to this infliction with grace  I hope, maybe, with 
gladness. 

Now, to lose no time, I at once proceed to teach you how 
to make the homely potato salad, which during the last thirty 
years has found so many friends in our country. 

, . Various ways of 

it serves as a base lor a number of excellent making a potato 
combinations. There are two ways of making 
a potato salad : one is to have it in distinct slices, when 
you have to make it of cold boiled potatoes ; the other is to 
slice and dress the potatoes Avhile hot, which is rather apt to 
break up the slices into smaller fragments. The latter method 
renders the salad mellower, and certainly wholesomer than the 
former. Yet this is rather a matter of taste. It is my way of 
doing. In either case you have to take potatoes of a certain 
firmness  I mean not too mealy  and boil them in their 
jackets. When drained, peel and slice them into a rather flat 
dish, and pour over them enough of hot meat broth to moisten 
them. It gives them a better flavor, and makes them more 
nourishing. Cover them up and let them steep for about five 
minutes. Have a little onion minced fine, add it to the 
potatoes, and dress the latter now with plenty of vinegar, oil, 
pepper, and salt. Add the vinegar before the oil. To mix the 
salad without breaking it up too much, place a platter over 

157 



158 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

the dish which holds the salad, and give it a good tossing. 
Then remove the salad into the dish you mean to serve it 
in, and trim it according to your fancy. To vary the dress- 
ing, add a teaspoonful of French mustard, or some capers, or 
both. Or replace half of the vinegar by as much claret. In 
that case, beets cut in small dice are a good addition. So are, 
at another time, white celery stalks cut into shreds. A sprinkle 
of minced parsley \nll accentuate the color and flavor. Part 
of a salt herring, skinned and boned, and cut into small dice, 
will give to potato salad a pleasant piquancy, as will also pickled 
cucumbers cut into shreds. There are, in fact, very few things 
which you cannot add to a potato salad. This makes it an 
economical one, since remnants of food will serve for its 
composition. 

Potatoes are necessary also for an Italian and a Portuguese 
A Portuguese salad. For the latter take stewed mushrooms, 
**'^^- boiled potatoes, and raw tomatoes. Cut into thin 

slices ; dress with oil, salt, and pepper, and add last of all a 
small glassful of sherry, but no vinegar. 

The following is one of a number of recipes for "Italian 
salad " : Take boiled potatoes, sour apples, pickled cucumbers, 
* .^. . J and cooked veal (one cup of each) ; cut into 

An Italian salad. ^ * ' ^ 

small dice. Add half a cupful of beets, three 
hard-boiled eggs, and ten anchovies, also cut into dice. Mix 
all this with one and a half cupfuls of oil, one small glassful of 
sherry, one to two tablespoonfuls of tarragon vinegar, salt, and 
pepper. Cover up the whole and allow it to stand in a cool 
place for about three hours ; then mix it once more thoroughly, 
put it in your salad-dish and garnish with anchovies, pickles, 
capers, and corned beef or ham cut into even shreds. 

The following is an excellent appetizer : Take the breast 
of a roast chicken, one salt herrinsr, one anchovy, 

An appet. zer. ' 11 -i j 

some boiled ham or tongue, and two hard-boiled 
eggs ; chop fine and dress with oil and vinegar. 

I must not fail to give you the recipe for a real sardine salad. 
The sardines needed for it are the salted ones, which come in 
little kegs and are sold by weight. For a large dishful of salad 



LETTER XIX 159 

take half a pound of them. Soak them in water for about an 
hour, changing the water several times. Then divide them 
into hakes by pulHng them apart from head downward, remov- 
ing the spine. Take about half of the filets thus obtained, and 
cut them into narrow strips an inch and a half long. The rest 
you roll up turban-shaped, and set aside for garnishing. Take 
also small gherkins, pickled mushrooms, crayfish-tails (which 
come in litde glass jars), smoked salmon, some mixed pickles, 
and cut them likewise into strips. Add capers, and mix the 
whole with oil and vinegar. Heap it up on a salad-dish, and 
garnish with small triangles of smoked salmon, the sardines 
rolled up, capers, pickled cherries, stoned oHves, and pickled 
oysters,^ finishing at the base with a rim of boiled tongue cat 
in imitation of cocks' combs, alternating with thin slices of 
lemon similarly frayed. 

As a sample fish salad I will give you a Venetian one : Take 
two herrings out of brine, and after they have been well soaked, 
skin and bone them : take also one pound of Venetian fish 
pickled eel, half a pound of salted sardines, which ^'^^- 
soak and then halve, and cut all this into small dice. Mix 
with part of a mayonnaise sauce. Now take the middle piece 
of a cauliflower, a handful of tiny green peas, about as much 
of small string-beans, and boil in salted water until done. Take 
half a carrot, and a small celery root, slice them, and with a 
tube cut them into cylindrical pieces as large as your peas. 
Boil them also until tender. Then drain, and cool them off in 
cold water, drain again, and dress all these vegetables with oil, 
salt, and vinegar. Now heap up your mayonnaise salad in the 
centre of a dish, cover it up with more mayonnaise sauce, and 
trim it all over with your vegetables, arranging them symmetri- 
cally and well assorted as to color. Place the cauliflower on 
the very top, and garnish the edge of the salad with quarters 
of hard-boiled eggs, allowing their whites only to show. 

Now, suppose you take boiled salmon (canned will do pretty 
nearly as well) instead of salt and pickled fish, as above, and you 

1 See p. 20I. 



100 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

will have an extremely nice variation. Salmon harmonizes par- 
ticularly well with mayonnaise, and if you relieve it by a rim 
, _, of crisp, ffreen lettuce leaves, and inside of it 

A salmon salad. . 

put a border of broken-np amber-colored aspic, 
you will have a most refined as well as a beautiful-looking 
dish of salad. By adding to a mayonnaise for salmon a little 
anchovy paste or essence, you will give it a slight piquancy, 
well in accord with that fish. Instead of salmon, any other 
kind of cooked fish will do for a salad ; and a sauce farfajr, 
ravigote ^ or remoulade ^ will serve instead of a mayonnaise. 

If you wish to try a lobster salad, ask your fish dealer for a 
female lobster. Take the eggs,  which will give a fine flavor 
. , , , , and color to your dressing^,  pound them in a 

A loDster salad. -^ i i 

mortar with as much oil as they will take up, 
and add them either to a mayonnaise or the following dress- 
ing : Rub to a paste the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs, add 
three tablespoonfuls of oil, one tablespoonful of tarragon vine- 
gar, a teaspoonful of English mustard, two or three minced 
shallots, a teaspoonful of minced tarragon leaves, salt to taste, 
and a sprinkle of white pepper. If not acid enough add some 
lemon juice, and stir the whole until thoroughly mixed and 
smooth. Cut your lobster into small pieces, saving some of 
the claws for garnishing, dust them over with a very little salt 
and white pepper, and pour over them some tarragon vinegar. 
Let them stand for about an hour ; then heap up on a flat dish, 
pour the dressing (which meanwhile has been kept on ice) 
over and around the lobster. Then trim, using crisp lettuce, 
or endive, stoned olives, slices of hard-boiled eggs, tiny pickled 
cucumbers, capers, etc., etc. I might suggest here also for an 
outer rim to use nasturtium flowers arranged wreath-like, and 
leave it for you to go on improving on this suggestion. 

You know already how good a salad can be made of cooked 
vegetables. You may dress it plain or with a mayonnaise. In 
the latter case I advise to have the dressing served separately, 
while the vegetables are kept in a marinade of lemon juice and 

1 See p. 74. 2 See p. 134. 



LETTER XIX 161 

salt for about an hour's time, and then drained, previous to 
serving. In Switzerland the carrots boiled with the meat are 
frequently served as a plain salad with the i?ouilli, cooked vegetable 
the boiled beef, and eaten while still warm. They sa'^^^s, 
are quite good. But a plain vegetable salad served to us at 
a cosey little restaurant at Paris, at a time when the Anglo- 
Saxons had not invaded its secluded precincts, was by far a 
superior one. It consisted of green peas, carrots, and celery 
root, the two latter cut into very small dice, which were 
arranged in three sections of a circle, running to a point in 
the centre. A mayonnaise would have completely hidden this 
pretty effect of geometry and color ; but it might have been 
a tasty accessory, if it had been served with it. We, however, 
did not miss it, for it was palatable enough without. I would 
suggest to improve this salad, by placing some roses of cauli- 
flower  put together like the centre of a head  in the middle, 
and then having the other vegetables .start from this centre 
piece, widening towards the rim of the dish. You might try 
this some day when you have some cauliflower left over. Then, 
in winter, when an open can of vegetables will keep for several 
days, you might take some green peas from one can, some 
string-beans from another, some asparagus tops from a third, 
a carrot from the soup-kettle, and a boiled potato from the 
day before, cut and trim it all in the right shape, and you 
would have a salad in a very short time, and at little expense. 

Still another variation is the salad a la Nostiz,  called after 
a German nobleman : Take equal quantities of asparagus tops 
and roses of cauliflower, about half the quantity of young 
string- beans cut into lozenge-shaped pieces, and as much of 
carrots and celery root, cut into small dice. Boil all these in 
salted water until tender, drain and cover them with vinegar 
and oil dressing, then set them aside for an hour. Take 
meanwhile about half a dozen heads of lettuce and remove all 
the leaves, making use only, of their firm and white hearts. 
Dress them separately with plain French dressing. Put them in 
the centre of a salad-dish, and arrange around them the 
cooked vegetables. Garnish the whole with hard-boiled eggs 



1G2 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

cut into quarters, and with claws of lobster. Cover with a 
mayonnaise sauce. 

The Dumas, father and son, have been inventors of salads. 

To the Japanese salad of the younger Dumas is attached both 

literary and culinary celebrity. It belongs to the extravagant 

ones, which are not within the scope of my advice. But as a 

, . fair sample of a Dumas salad I give you this 

A Dumas salad. ^ j i -i 

recipe : Take one egg for each person, and boil 
hard the number needed. Rub the yolks to a paste ; chop 
the whites, and mix both with a spoonful of minced chervil. 
Add some French mustard dissolved in a little vinegar, oil, 
pepper, and salt. Cut into fine shreds a pickled cucumber, an 
anchovy or two, a small red beet, to which add some capers. 
Finally have some crisp lettuce washed and well drained, mix 
all together and serve. 

Of all meat salads, that made of chicken or turkey is the 
best. To be economical, however, you can take part veal or, 
^^ , , _, better still, rabbit, and mix with the former. It 

Chicken salad. ' 

will hardly be detected. Take equal parts of 
meat cooked tender and cut into dice. Cut celery stalks into 
thin pieces. Keep some of the tender white celery leaves for 
garnishing. IMix the meat and celery, add a good sprinkle of 
salt, a Httle white pepper, and the juice of a lemon. Let stand 
for about two or three hours in a cool place. Make a thick 
mayonnaise, adding some cream at the last to make it as white 
as possible. Take a few tablespoonfuls of it to mix with the 
salad, which heap on a dish, and cover with the rest of the 
mayonnaise. Garnish with celery and lettuce leaves, beets, 
stoned olives, capers, little pickled cucumbers, or anything else 
tliat will be pleasing. 

Any other cold meat will make a nice salad. You can mix 
with it almost any pickled fish, cucumbers, beets, as well as 
other varieties of potatoes, hcrbs, mushrooms, etc. A bit of dark 
meat salad. meat left over is speedily transformed into a nice 

salad by cutting it into small dice or thin shreds, and making 
a dressing for it of a saltspoonful of mustard, a tablespoonful 
of sour cream, two tablespoonfuls of vinegar, some pepper. 



LETTER XDC 163 

salt, a bit of minced onion, minced tarragon, and any other 
herb you may have at hand. Trim with peppergrass or water- 
cress if convenient. 

I was about to close, when it occurred to me that in all these 
pages I have mentioned tomatoes but once (in the Portu- 
guese salad). It does not require, to be sure, any especial art 
to slice tomatoes, and pour over them a plain dressing or a 
mayonnaise. Still, it would seem to me that I ought to give 
you a few hints about making a perfect tomato salad. Select 
firm ripe tomatoes of equal size. Pour boihns: ^ , ^ 

'^ * *- Tomato salad. 

water over them, and after a few minutes change 
to cold water. Peel them, and cut out the hard parts of the 
stem with a sharp, pointed knife. Then place the tomatoes on 
ice to get thoroughly cold, and, just before ser\'ing, slice them 
with a very sharp knife, and not too thin. Place the slices in 
a glass dish, sprinkle them-thick with salt and some pepper, and 
pour over them oil and vinegar in great moderation. In the 
South of Europe the bottom and sides of the dish in which 
tomato salad is served are rubbed with the inside of a halved 
clove of garUc. A mixed salad of tomatoes and lettuce has 
found great favor of late years, and is so delightful to look at 
that we often do not realize the actual incongniity between 
the two as to flavor and taste. Their union is improved, how- 
ever, by the binding quality of a thick mayonnaise. A very 
pretty way to serve the three combined is to take a flat dish, 
place the skinned and cold tomatoes on it whole, each on some 
crisp leaves of lettuce curling around it, while the top of the 
tomato is hooded \\'ith a teaspoonful of thick mayonnaise. 

If, after all the foregoing, you are in need of a deep breath 
of relief, I am ready to grant it by closing this long chapter on 
salads. 



LETTER XX 

Man cannot accomplish much on an empty stomach. 

 German Proverb. 

YOU have been waiting patiently all this while for a lesson on 
eggs,  this very important article of food. For its corn- 
Food value of ponents are not very different from those of fairly 
^ss- well-fed beef. In the white we get mostly albu- 

minous substance, in the yolk chiefly the fat contained in the 
egg. The minerals are principally sulphur and phosphate of 
lime. But I had better give you a little table to make it more 
com.prehensible and exact :  

Album. Carboh. Fats. Water. Minerals. 

Eggs (whole) . . 12.5 0.0 12.0 74.5 i.o 

Whites 1 1.0 0.0 0.0 87.5 0.5 

Yolks 16.0 0.0 30.0 51.5 1.0 

Dr. Wiel says that a man can hold his own on a daily diet of 
eight eggs and four-fifths of a pound of bread. This ought to 
be taken into consideration by the provider of a family. Eggs 
are also easily digested, if not cooked too much. 
wwh\o7o\k'^ They are best when boiled soft. A good diges- 
to^do tt"^ ^^ ^^^^ however, can manage even hard-boiled eggs. 
The former need three minutes' boiling if put into 
boilinsr water ; the latter five minutes. If vou wish them neither 
too soft nor too hard, allow them four minutes. Eggs to be 
used for mayonnaise or to be stuffed, have to be boiled ten to 
fifteen minutes. All this, however, is no sure guide in cold 
weather, unless the eggs have been allowed to remain in a warm 
place for a while beforehand, to take off the chill. 

Try your eggs as to freshness before you boil them ; put 
them into cold water, and if they sink to the bottom they are 
164 



LETTER XX 



1G5 



fresh. An egg more than a week old will not sink, but swim ' 
on top. Wash and clean them before boiling. This is very 
important, because the dirt chnging to them will enter the 
inside through the many small pores of the shell. When in 
doubt as to their freshness, it is best to open your eggs and 
use them for poaching, frying, scrambling, etc. They will thus 
furnish you with the daintiest of breakfast dishes. 

To poach eggs take a wide, flat stew-pan and put into it one 
quart of water, one cupful of vinegar, one tablespoonful of salt ; 
when it comes to a boil, open your eggs one by one into a cup ; 
drop them into the boiling water ; but not more than two or 
three at a time. Take a spoon, and try to keep each egg in 
shape, by pushing the whites toward the yolk. As soon as the 
whites are firm, take out the eggs carefully with a skimmer. 
Place each on a slice of buttered toast. Now, if you have a 
tomato sauce at hand, and pour it around the eggs and toast, 
you will have a most delicious dish to serve. But you may 
also pour hot milk over the toast, in which some butter has 
been melted, and, of course, omit the tomato sauce. 

Fried eggs are best and nicest done in little egg-moulds, 
which are made for the purpose. They come in pairs or 
threes, and so on up to six and more. I have a mould of six, 
and if I have fewer eggs to fry, I fill the other forms with 
water. Put a tiny little piece of butter in each mould, drop 
in the eggs, and, while cooking, loosen the whites at the edges 
every few seconds to prevent the under side from getting too 
much done. Sprinkle the eggs with salt  and pepper, if you 
like. As soon as the whites are firm, take out the eggs with a 
spoon. They are nice with spinach, sorrel, and green salads, 
the acids of the two latter, especially, helping to digest the 
albuminous matter of the egg, each one complementing the 
other in a very desirable and palatable way. 

For "panned eggs," take a porcelain pie-plate, butter it, 
I pour in thick cream enough to fill it half full, drop in some 
f esfofs (four or five) side by side ; place on each  . 

^'-' ^ ' J }  ^ Panned eggs. 

yolk a few capers ; dust over them some minced 

parsley (or cives) and some fine bread-crumbs, and put flakes 



166 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

of butter here and there. Place in the oven and let the eggs 

get firm and slightly brown on top. 

For " eggs on shells," butter some scallop-shells, fill them 

partly full with smoked salmon or bloaters cut in small dice, 

, ,, and drop an esfsf on top of each without break- 
Eggs on shells. ^ *-"= . ' 

ing the yolk. Put in the oven until the whites 
have set, and serve at once. 

And now you want to try your hand at an omelet. This is 
no easy undertaking, but I do not see why you should be less 
How to make an succcssful than Others who have tried and come 
"''*' out victorious. First of all, have a good, brisk 

fire, and a frying-pan well heated. Break your eggs into 
a basin, add a small pinch of salt, and a teaspoonful 
of cream (or milk) for each one. Whisk them until whites 
and yolks are mixed ; it makes the omelet Hght. Put a piece 
of butter (very fresh) the size of half an egg for every three or 
four eggs into your pan, and when sizzling hot pour in your 
eggs. Be quick now, and shake your pan with one hand, 
while with the other, holding a silver fork, you turn up the egg 
which is coagulating. When every part is equally cooked and 
creamy, you allow the eggs at the bottom to get firm, but not 
brown. To prevent the latter you have to keep shaking the 
pan, and with it the omelet, which must stay creamy on top. 
Then with a spatula you turn one-half of the omelet over the 
other half and, placing a hot plate over your pan, you toss 
your omelet upside down into the middle of the plate. Thus 
you will have the omelet ^^ charnue ei doree " (fleshy and golden 
yellow), of which a French poet sings. 

This plain omelet you can diversify in very many ways, of 
which I mention a few to indicate how to do it. Make thus 
A variety of ^^^ omclct aicx fiiies kcrbes : Mince some parsley, 

omelets. tarragon, and shallots  or parsley and cives   

and mix with your eggs. Or chop fine equal quantities of 
spinach, sorrel, parsley, chervil, and cives ; saicte them for a 
few minutes in a little butter, let them get cool, and then 
add your eggs before making the omelet. For an omelet 
with bloaters, skin and take the bones out of a fine Yarmouth 



LETTER XX 167 

bloater; cut the flesh in tiny dice. Mix it with some parsley 
and one shallot minced, which slightly saute beforehand in 
a little butter. Then moisten the whole with one tablespoonful 
of brown gravy, heat it up and place it in the middle of your 
omelet before turning it over. 

Here is an omelet with bacon : For four eggs take two 
ounces of breakfast bacon, cut it into small dice, saute it until 
light brown, and mix with your eggs before baking. And here 
is an omelet with tomatoes a la Proveti^aie : Take two middle- 
sized, very firm tomatoes, and cut them into dice. Put one 
teaspoonful of minced onion into a frying-pan in which you 
have heated one teaspoonful of butter and one of olive oil. 
As soon as the onion turns yellow, add the tomatoes. Cook 
them on a quick fire until their watery substance is somewhat 
reduced ; then season them with salt and pepper, and lastly 
add a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, with a taste of garlic 
(the latter to be obtained by rubbing the board, on which the 
parsley is chopped, with the inside of a clove of garhc). Make 
an omelet of five eggs for the above. The recipe says to take 
olive oil for it, but in our country I prefer to take butter. Put 
the tomato in the middle of the omelet, and take care when 
you fold it that the rims are closed tightly. Serve it on an 
oval dish, with parsley or water-cress around. 

After you have mastered these different omelets, you will be 
able, with a Httle thought, to make any other kind you wish, 
only taking care that the ingredients blend. Such are : ham, 
kidneys, mushrooms (all cut into small dice), green peas, 
asparagus points, and others. All these, suitable for omelets, 
will do also for stirred (or scrambled) eggs. I prefer the 
latter to the former for every-day fare, because they are quicker 
done  can, in fact, be cooked in a chafing-dish at table, where 
they are best, because serv^ed as soon as done. 

Stirred eggs also are more wholesome than omelet, which 
requires more butter to get it perfected, and does not permit 
the same creamy consistency of the egg all through 
it. This is the recipe for stirred eggs : Break the ^ ^^^^" 
eggs into a bowl, add a little pinch of salt and a scant table- 



168 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

Spoonful of milk for each egg. Give it two vigorous beats for 
each egg, with a spoon; melt a little butter  about the size 
of a small hazel-nut  for each egg in a hot pan; pour in 
your eggs, and with a spoon loosen them from the bottom as 
soon as they begin to thicken ; do it only in one direction, 
toward the handle of the pan (which you hold with your left 
hand), and each time in another place. In this way your eggs 
turn out in large flakes, as they should. Remove them from the 
fire just before the eggs are all coagulated and while some liquid 
is left. Unless you catch this very moment, your eggs will be 
either too soft or too hard for perfection. Whatever ingredi- 
ents you wish to add you mix with your eggs while raw ; or 
put them into the melted butter first, and then pour in the 

egg. 

A nice way to serve stirred eggs is to heap them in the 

middle of a platter, and garnish them all around with thin 

slices of smoked salmon, which have been dipped into melted 

butter and then allowed to sai//e slightly on a slow fire. 

After you have mastered the omelet, it will be easy for you 
to produce a nice, tender Roman/r//*^/*^ and wafer-like pan- 
A Roman cakcs. Here are the recipes : Yox fritata, whisk 

friiata. f^^g qj- gj^ eggs until light ; add two tablespoonfuls 

of raw ham cut in small dice or chopped coarsely, some 
minced parsley, or parsley and cives. Pour the mixture into a 
hot pan, in which a good-sized piece of butter has been heated. 
Shake to prevent its sticking, and when slightly brown on one 
side, turn it with the help of a warm plate, and brown also on 
the other side. The fritata ought to be thick, not thin like a 
pancake ; the pan, therefore, must be of small circumference 
for the quantity given above. 

As for the pancakes, a small iron frying-pan is the best to 
bake them in. To make four or five pancakes, take half a pint 
of milk, three egg?>, about four tablespoonfuls of flour, and a 
httle salt. If the batter is too thin, add a little more flour. 
Whisk until light. Put a piece of butter the size of a vwilnut 
into your pan, and when quite hot, pour into it about a cupful 
of the batter. Shake it ; and from time to time hft it at the 



LETTER XX 169 

edges with the round point of a knife to prevent its sticking. 
When light brown on the lower side, give the cake a toss with 
the pan to fling it upside down,  this is the correct 

, , , . , . Pancakes. 

way; but as long as you have not practised it, you 
had better turn your cake with the help of a plate. SHp 
another little piece of butter  about half the quantity as 
before  under the turned cake and let it get light brown. 
Put it on a hot plate, and place it where it will keep hot. Put 
the other cakes on top of it as they are finished, and serve. 
If you wish your pancakes sweet, add a tablespoonful of sugar 
to the above quantity. This recipe is a first-rate one. You 
can make very good pancakes, however, by taking but one or 
two eggs for the same amount. I have even made them 
in winter with a few heaped tablespoonfuls of clean snow 
and no egg at all. They were pale, to be sure, but light 
and good. 

A very nice dish for breakfast or luncheon is the follow- 
ing: 

Pancakes Filled with Meat.  Mix, for pancakes, three-quar- 
ters of a pint of flour, three eggs, two tablespoonfuls of olive 
oil (the very best), a little salt, one tablespoonful of brandy, 
and half mflk, half water, to get a batter not too 
thin. After beating it well allow it to stand for fiiied with 
two or three hours. When baked let the pancakes "^^^ ' 
get cold. Meanwhile take some remnants of any kind of meat 
(or of several kinds), chop them fine ; mince one small onion 
(or a shallot), some parsley, and a little cives. Take a little 
piece of butter, heat it in a pan ; put in the onion first, and 
when it gets light brown, add the meat, parsley, and cives. 
Stir until hot. i\llow this hash, too, to get cold. Then spread 
one or two tablespoonfuls of it on each pancake and roll it up 
so as to make it look like a sausage. Now heat some butter 
in a pan, put the rolled pancakes in, side by side, and brown 
them slowly all around. Do it only just before serving, allow- 
ing about fifteen to twenty minutes to sai/^e them. They must 
be very hot when served. They are excellent with a tomato 
sauce, or even with plain stewed tomatoes. 



170 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

For a mere relish I can recommend the following :  
Farcied Eggs a la Fauvel.  Boil eggs hard ; put them in 
cold water ; they will shell better. Take them out before 
^ . , quite cold, and when shelled, cut off the tips in 

Farcied eggs. ^ ' ^ 

order to stand them up ; then cut them into 
halves, take out the still warm yolks ; mash them ; mix them 
with some oil, a very little vinegar, season with salt and 
pepper, add a taste of onion, and a little minced parsley. The 
mixture must be stiff and smooth. Fill it back into the whites 
and serve nicely garnished. I call them "Fauvel" after an 
American boy in England, who taught me this recipe. 

There is one combination  that of eggs and cheese  in 

favor of which I can merely say that it is a very 

About cheese. ' ' ^ 

palatable one. For, although rich in nutriments, 
as the following table will show you, it seems somehow to 
be in league with nightmares. 

Album. 

Cheese, rich 25.0 

" middling rich . 27.2 
" least rich 30.0 

Although cheese is prized as a digester, it is equally certain 
that " cheese digests everything but itself." If, however, a kind 
, ^ , is used which is neither too rich nor too poor (such 

A fondue. ^ ^ . 

as Parmesan, Gruyere, Chester, or our American 
imitation of the latter), and great care is taken to cook it no 
more than just to melt it, the dishes made partly of cheese 
may be partaken of with impunity by persons of tolerably good 
digestion. I give you a few recipes because your husband, 
like other men of intellect, may be fond of such piquant deli- 
cacies : For a fondue take three eggs, beat them well ; add 
two ounces of grated Gruyere, one ounce of melted butter, and 
one tablespoonful of cream. Pour the butter into the cream 
to cool it, before adding to the cheese and eggs. After it is 
well mixed, pour the whole into a china ^/-^////-dish  or into 
little paper boxes  and put into a slow oven until of the 
firmness of custard. Serve immediately. 



Car BOH. 


Fats. 


Water. 


Minerals. 


2.2 


29.0 


39-2 


4.6 


1-5 


237 


43.2 


4.4 


5-1 


13-4 


46.5 


50 



LETTER XX 171 

This is not the famous fondu of Brillat-Savarin, which you 
find in most cook-books of modern date, but equally good if 
done with due care. 

To Toast Cheese.  Take three eggs, a cupful of milk, and a 
teaspoonful of flour ; beat and mix well. Melt a small piece 
of butter in a skillet ; put in about two ounces of ^ , . ^ 

' ^ Toasted cheese. 

cheese cut into thin slices ; pour the above mix- 
ture over it (it ought just to cover the cheese) and stir over a 
slow fire until the cheese is melted and the mixture has thick- 
ened. You can do this in a chafing-dish at the table, which 
will insure its success. In Chester County, Penn., I have eaten 
this dish mixed with "cottage cheese" (curds), instead of 
flour, which is a great improvement. In this case more of 
the cottage cheese and less of the real cheese is to be 
taken. 

For rafneqtn?is, put a tablespoonful of butter into a gratin- 
dish, then a layer of bread cut into thin slices ; on top of it 
put a layer of sliced cheese, and over the whole  

^ -' ' Ramequins. 

pour a mixture of three eggs and a cupful of milk. 
Bake in the oven until light brown on top. It needs very little 
heat underneath and ought to brown in fifteen minutes. It is 
dehcious if the ov^en is in the right condition. 

You would not wish me to continue, and give you all the 
543 different dishes made of eggs which Grimod invented, or 
tell you how J. J. Rousseau excelled in cooking eggs in various 
ways, nor of the dish of eggs the Duke of Soubise placed 
before Louis XV., which cost him 75 /oi/is d'or. I hear you 
say, " Oh, no, please do not." 

I might now leave you to your own devices altogether ; for I 
believe you are equipped sufficiently with material to furnish 
your table so as to please a capricious as well as a rational 
stomach, and at the same time provide what is needed to keep 
the physical and spiritual man alive and in good condition. 
But I have said nothing as yet of desserts, and although in my 
opinion fruit is the best dessert at all times, to which ices 
and cream may be added on special occasions, you do wish 
to know of, at least, a restricted number of light desserts. 



172 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

Some of them are quite wholesome. They also are the means 
of adding agreeably to the necessary variety in our daily 
food, and as such, as well as in an economical view, are 
even to be recommended. For to-day, however, I will not 
keep your attention any longer, but close this already too am- 
phfied epistle. 



LETTER XXI 

Lo, as at English feasts, so I regreet 

The daintiest last, to make the end most sweet. 

 Shakespeare. 

IF I am opposed to pies and heavy puddings, it is principally 
for hygienic reasons. But, aside from this, I deem them 
wasteful, inasmuch as the outlay for their production far ex- 
ceeds the nourishment derived from them for the human sys- 
tem. To make good pies and all the old-fashioned English 
puddings, we need much butter, suet, raisins, almonds, and 
similar fruit, all of which is high-priced, and sure to tax one's 
digestive powers. And you know that only such food nour- 
ishes as is properly digested. It is different, however, with the 
lighter kinds of farinaceous food, and all the delightful trifles I 
comprise under the head of light desserts. To prepare them 
we use milk, eggs, cereals, and fresh fruit.  all of them nourish- 
ing, pleasant to the palate, and easily digested. If any fat is 
needed for their production, it is butter, and not much of it. 
You will remember that in indicating to you the daily rations 
for adults, I mentioned Professor C. Voit's dictum, that the 
required 6.9 ounces of pure muscle (meat) can be valuation of food- 
replaced by dairy produce and eggs. I would matters for light 
advise that, especially in hot summer weather, a 
more frequent use should be made of this sort of diet. To 
give you a comparative idea of the food-values you would thus 
deal with, I note down the following schedule :  

Album. 

Eggs 12.5 

Milk (new) 3.4 

" (skimmed) 3.1 

Butter 0.6 



Carboh. 


Fats. 


Water. 


Mix. 
Matters. 


Cellulc 


0.0 


12.0 


74-5 


I.O 


0.0 


4.8 


3-6 


87.5 


0.7 


0.0 


4.8 


0.7 


90.7 


0.7 


0.0 


0.6 


^11 


14.5 


1.0 


0.0 



174 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

Album. Carboh. Fats. Water, Arrl.iE'j,s Cellulose. 

^^^^eat flour.... 10.5 72.5 1.5 14,5 i.o 0.5 

" bread . . 7.0 55.2 0.5 36.0 i.o 0.3 

Cornstarch 1.0 83.6 15.0 0.4 

Farina 1 1.0 71,5 1.5 15.0 0.5 0.5 

Rice 8.0 76.5 1,0 13.0 1.0 0,5 

Sugar 99.0 1.0 

Fruit (fresh) ... 0.5 lo.o 85.0 0.5 4.0 

" (dried) ... 2.5 55.0 I.o 30,0 1.5 lo.o 

You will find some repetitions in the above, while other sub- 
stances are added to aid you in gaining a clearer valuation of 
The most eco- the foods employed in the following recipes. I 
nomicai dessert, begin with the simplcst and at the same time 
the most economical of all desserts  with a German recipe 
for Arme Ritfer, poor knights, dating from the middle ages, 
when it sometimes was also called " Beggar-man." Let us sup- 
pose that since then it has gained by transformation ; but, at 
any rate, I never saw it go begging when placed on the family 
table. I make it when slices of stale bread have accumulated 
in the bread-box. I shape them as evenly as possible, and 
not larger than the palm of my hand. Then I place them side 
by side on some large platters, and pour over them a thin bat- 
ter consisting of milk, one egg, a pinch of salt, and a little flour, 
 about a scant tablespoonful for a pint of milk, but no mort 
than the bread will take up. This batter I beat with an egg- 
beater, and take one-half of it in which to soak the slices of 
bread for about half an hour ; then I turn the slices with the 
cake-lifter, and pour the rest of the batter over them. After 
another half-hour's soaking they are ready to be browned in a 
large frying-pan by means of a little butter over a brisk fire. 
The pan and butter must be hot before putting in the bread. 
Put in as many at a time as the pan will hold ; turn them 
as soon as they are of a golden brown underneath, and 
brown them on the other side as well, adding a little more 
butter. When done, heap them on a hot dish, dust some 
sugar over them, and serve with a fruit sauce or some stewed 
fruit. 



LETl'ER XXI 175 

Another simple dessert is pancakes. I have already given 
you a recipe for them in my last, when speaking about eggs.^ 
They may be served with powdered sugar and Pancakes: how 
lemons quartered, the juice to be eaten squeezed ^o serve them. 
on the sugared pancakes ; or with stewed fruit, as well as a 
fruit sauce ; or you may spread some fruit jelly or jam on each 
cake separately, and roll it up by means of a silver fork. You 
then serve them lying side by side. 

Some of the most delicate of desserts are made and served in 
cups. There are cups on purpose for them, but small coffee- 
cups will do instead. For a custard take as many Desserts served 
cupfuls of milk as you have cups to fill. Place '" ^^p^- 
the milk over a moderate fire, and when it begins to boil add 
for each cup a scanty tablespoonful of sugar and a few drops 
of almond essence. Take also one egg for each cup, beat 
light, and stir into the milk. Now fill your cups and place 
them into a bain-marie, i.e. in a shallow pan, which you fill 
with boiling water from the tea-kettle, up to three-quarters the 
height of the cups. Cover the pan with a second one, and 
leave it standing where the water keeps boiling moderately. 
When the surface of the mixture begins to thicken, which will 
be in about ten minutes, you quickly remove the pan from the 
fire and take the cups out of the water ; for, if the water is 
allowed to boil too rapidly or too long, the custards will be 
spoiled. Serve cold. 

For coffee crhne in cups take three-quarters of a pint of 
milk, let it come to a boil, then pour into it two ounces of 
ground mocha. Cover up and put in a warm place, where it 
will draw  not boil. Leave it there for about ten minutes, 
then strain, and add the yolks of five eggs beaten light before- 
hand, and two ounces of sugar. Beat the whole vigorously, 
fill into cups, and finish in the hain-maj'ie. For chocolate 
creme take two and a half ounces of chocolate, one pint of 
milk, four eggs, and two and a half ounces of sugar. Let 
the chocolate dissolve in the hot milk, and proceed as before. 

1 See p. i68. 



176 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

When you happen to have saved the whites of three eggs, 
try this dessert, which I will call Mount Blanc : Take one pint 
Recipe for of milk and put it on to boil. Meanwhile beat 

Mount Blanc. your three whites to a stiff snow  stiff enough for 
a spoon to stand in it upright.^ When the milk boils, add one 
ounce of sugar, some vanilla essence, and one and a half 
ounces of cornstarch dissolved in a little milk. Stir over the 
fire until large bubbles make their appearance. Remove from 
the fire, and mix into it the snow of the whites, not by stirring, 
which would undo it, but by mixing it from side to side. Fill 
into a mould previously dipped into cold water, and set away 
to get cold. Turn it out on a dish, and serve with either a 
fruit or a wine sauce. 

Here is a snow crcme, quickly made : Take one pint of 

cream, the whites of two eggs, two tablespoonfuls of sweet 

white wine (or one of arrack), susrar to taste, a 

Snow creme. ^ / ^ o 7 

pinch of grated lemon or orange peel, and beat 
the whole until stiff. Fill into glass cups or stem glasses. 

Another delicacy which you serve in glasses, is raspberry 
 , , foam. Take three tablespoonfuls of raspberry 

Raspberry foam. ^ , r j 

syrup or jelly, the whites of six eggs, and three 
tablespoonfuls of sugar. Beat with the egg-beater until quite 
stiff. Then fill into glasses and serve. This is sufficient for 
ten persons. 

In berry time you will find the following a very acceptable 
recipe : Take one pint of juice squeezed either from raspber- 
_, . . ries or red currants ; add four ounces of sugar, 

Recipe for a _ ^ o 7 

very delicate and watcr Sufficient to make altogether one quart 

of liquid. Let it come to a boil, then stir into it 
one cupful of fine farina, soaked previously in cold water, the 
superfluous water being poured off. Stir well, to avoid lumps, 
and keep stirring until the farina is done (about five to ten 
minutes). Fill into a mould dipped in cold water, and when 
cool set on ice. Serve with cream. If wanted particularly 
nice, fill into a ring mould, and when turned out heap some 

1 See p. 183. 



LETTER XXI 177 

whipped cream up in the centre. This recipe hails from Den- 
mark, where it is called Rodgrod,  red groats. 

Some of the finest dessert dishes are made with the addition 
of whipped cream. In the cities it can be bought at the 
confectioners, but the best is always made at home. You 
need for it fresh cream, not over a day old. Put ,.,, . . 

' - _ Whipped cream, 

it in a larsre bowl or tureen, and set it on the ice and how to make 

^ .it. 

for at least one hour. Then beat with an egg- 
whip, and as the foam forms remove it with a skimmer into a 
colander which has been placed over another bowl. Return the 
liquid cream which drops into the latter to the cream you whip, 
and continue in this way until all your cream has turned to 
foam. If the cream should not get as stiff as desirable, add to 
it a pinch of pulverized gum tragacanth bought at a reliable 
druggist's. It eases the whipping considerably, and does not 
detract from the taste of the cream. If you wish, you may 
now sweeten your whipped cream and flavor it. To do the 
latter there is vanilla, grated chocolate, fruit marmalade or 
jelly, fresh raspberries or strawberries, etc., which ,. 
you mix with your cream by stirring^ i^ently. whipped cream 

o 1 n ^   -. "=.*.:. and fruit. 

Such flavored cream is a nice dessert m itself, 
when heaped up pyramid-like on a dish and served with fruit 
or cake. One pint of cream will make whips enough for six 
persons. A very pretty dish is obtained, for instance, in this 
way : Heap berries up in a crystal bowl, dust sugar over them 
freely, and then cover them up with sweetened whipped cream 
(take five ounces of sugar for one pint of cream). Put on the 
ice for one or two hours, and before serving garnish with a rim 
of extra large berries. 

To make a Russian crhne you also need whipped cream. 
Take three tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar and two eggs. 
Put in a large bowl and stir for half an hour. Recipe for 
when it will be quite thick. Add one tablespoon- ^"''''" ^'^'"' 
ful of best brandy (or arrack), and one pint of whipped cream. 
IMix gently, and serve at once. This is enough for five or six 
persons. 

For a chocolate bavai'oise (or crenie) take one pint of milk, 



178 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

boil with half a pound of chocolate and a quarter of a pound 
of sugar. Flavor with vanilla. When cold add one ounce of 
Chocolate gelatine, which previously has been dissolved in 

bavaro.se. water. Whip until the mixture begins to stiffen, 

then add a pint or a little more of whipped cream, which stir 
into it lightly. Put on ice. 

As to gelatine, it is a pretty safe rule to take one cupful to 

one and a half of cold water for every ounce of gelatine. 

Mix the two, and put in a warm place. Stir from 

Proportions for '  _  

the US3 of time to time until the gelatine is quite dissolved. 

For stiffening a pint of liquid you generally need 
a scant ounce of gelatine in summer, while during the cold 
season a little over half an ounce is sufficient. This rule 
applies especially to jellies. For a ci-hne less will do. 

To vary, I will now give you a recipe for Russian rice. 
Take a quarter of a pound of rice. You will remember how to 
 . boil it, with all the seeds left whole, and yet 

Russian rice. ' , , . . 

tender.-^ When you have thus cooked it m water 
(no salt), put it on a sieve to get dry and cold. Then transfer 
it to a crystal dish. Take a quarter of a pound of sugar, 
moisten it with a gill of water, and boil it until a thickish sirup 
is obtained (about fifteen to twenty minutes). When some- 
what cool add to it a wineglassful of Jamaica rum, or arrack, 
and pour over the rice in the glass dish. Garnish with pre- 
served or canned fruit,  peaches, apricots or cherries,  or 
with different kinds of fruit. 

A very pretty dessert dish is a maccdoine of fruit. You 
will very likely make it only when you expect invited guests. 

It will be then worth the trouble. You can do it 
wMc'h to make a iH different ways. Take either fresh, or canned, 
rnacedome of ^j, preserved fruit ; and you may make it with a 

jelly or without. Anyway, take the prettiest fruit 
at your command, and of different colors. Stone the cherries, 
leave the berries whole, but cut the larger fruit into nice pieces, 
 either in halves, quarters, or halved quarters. Put all your 

1 See p. 85. 



LETTER XXI 179 

fruit into a deep dish, pour over it a bottle of a light white 
wine, and set aside. Now take half a pound of sugar, and 
cook with one glassful of water until it makes a thick sirup. 
If your fruit is fresh, drop it little by little into the boiling 
sirup, and let it simmer for a little while ; if canned or pre- 
served, drop it in after the sirup has been removed from the 
fire, and merely let it steep for a while. Then take out the 
fruit with a skimmer, put into a large bowl, pour over it the 
wine in which previously it has soaked, and finally add the 
sirup. Let stand for four hours, when put in a vessel filled 
with ice, to chill thoroughly, and when served add small pieces 
of ice to the macedoine. This is ^Mademoiselle Frangoise's 
recipe. 

I will give you another one made with jelly. Take three- 
quarters of a pound of sugar, and cook it with half a pint of 
water for fifteen minutes. Add the grated peel of three lemons, 
and their juice ; a pint and a half of California Marsala, and 
two ounces of gelatine. Put through a flannel bag until clear. 
Have a mould ready packed in ice, pour in some of the jelly; 
when stiff, add a layer of fruit ; pour in some more jelly ; let it 
get stiff; add more fruit, and so on until all is used up. Finish 
with jelly, and turn out when ready to be served. If you 
take fresh fruit for this dish, do not cook it ; if canned or 
preserved fruit, see that it is well drained of its juice. Save 
the latter, and use it, when you have occasion, for fruit sauces, 
jellies, etc. 

If made with preserved fruit, you might put as a first layer 
(after the jelly) some macaroons, as a second some candied 
orange peel arranged in a star-like pattern, and as a third layer 
slices of quince or any other dark red fruit. 

It will take some time before you have tried all these 
recipes. If you are successful, you will be able hereafter to 
avail yourself of any other recipe which may strike your 
fancy. A little practice is all you need. I will add now 
merely a few more recipes for baked puddings of a light kind. 

This apple pudding is exceedingly delicate : Peel, core, 
and quarter some tart apples. Boil them with a little water 



ISO LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

until soft. Mash them with a spoon, and take as much of 
them as will make a quarter of a pound. Add the same 
A light apple Weight of butter and sugar while still hot. Then, 
pudding. after it gets cool, mix with it three eggs beaten to 

a foam, and the grated peel of one lemon. Butter a pudding- 
form, dust it over with powdered sugar, and fill into it your 
mixture. The form must be high enough to allow the rising of 
the pudding. Bake in a quick oven for about half an hour. 
Try by inserting a straw (or a wooden toothpick) into the 
centre. If nothing attaches to it when pulled out, the baking 
is done. Remember this for other occasions. Serve at once. 

For a white of egg pudding take four whites and beat them 
to a stiff snow. Now mix two tablespoonfuls of apricot (or 
White of egg souic othcr) marmalade with an ounce and a half 
pudding. Q^ sugar, and add it carefully to the snow. Fill 

the whole into a buttered china dish, and bake in a slow oven 
for about half an hour. Serve immediately in the dish baked in. 

For a simple custard pudding take one pint of milk, stir 

into it gradually one tablespoonful of flour, the yolks of six 

e2f2fs beaten lifirht, susrar to taste, a flavoring of 

Custard pudding. ^O & ? & r ^ r ^ j 

vanilla or lemon, and a teaspoonful of brandy. 
Finally mix with it a teaspoonful of melted butter (which may 
be warm, but must not be hot), and pour into a buttered dish. 
Bake in a moderately hot oven. 

A lemon pudding also is a simple affair. Take for it a quar- 
ter of a pound of sugar, and mix with the yolks of five eggs, 
stirrinof continually. When quite foamy add 

Lennon pudding. *-' ' 

quickly the juice ot one lemon, and then the 
whites of the eggs, beaten to a stiff snow. Put into a buttered 
form, which it must not fill any more than three-quarters, since 
the mixture will rise considerably. Bake about fifteen to 
twenty minutes, and serve at once. 

Finally, I give you this recipe for a rice pudding: Take a 
quarter of a pound of rice, and boil it in a pint of milk until 
thick. Meanwhile beat half a pound of butter to a cream,^ 

1 See p. 183. 



LETTER XXI 181 

add one by one the yolks of eight eggs, a quarter of a pound 
of sugar, the grated peel of half a lemon, and last of all the rice, 
which must be cold. When thoroughly mixed, . 

*- ' ' Rice pudding. 

add the whites of the eggs beaten to a snow. 
Bake in a buttered form, and turn out on a cake- plate. Serve 
warm with a fruit sauce. This is a very nice pudding. It may 
also be made of farina instead of rice. 

I must not close this letter before giving you a few recipes 
for the sauces mentioned. For a wine sauce, take one whole 
esrsf and the yolks of two, a heaped teaspoonful . 

oo / 7 jr  _ A wine sauce. 

of flour, two ounces of sugar, and half a pint of 

white wine. Beat with an egg- whip over the fire until just 

before the point of boiling. Serve hot or cold, as you please. 

A very simple sauce is made by first sweetening some cream, 
then adding the juice of a lemon, which will thicken the cream. 

For fruit sauces, the easiest way is to take home-made fruit 
sirup, and thin it with cold water. Or, if the sauce is to be 
hot, thin the sirup first with water, and when it ^ ,, 

' i ' Fruit sauces. 

comes to a boil add a teaspoonful of cornstarch 

dissolved in water. Stir while boiling until the cornstarch is 

done, which will be in two or three minutes. 

This last recipe for a claret sauce is excellent : Take one 
tablespoonful of powdered sugar, as much of ^^i^^^^ ^^^^^ 
raspberry or currant jelly, and one glassful of 
claret. Stir until it slightly thickens. But do not put it on the 
fire. 

From the almost endless number of nice recipes for light 
desserts, I have chosen for you what I consider easy for a be- 
ginner, and withal good and wholesome. May it give you as 
much pleasure to carry out these recipes as it gave me pleasure 
to write them down. 



LETTER XXII 

Wouldst thou both eat thy cake and have it ? 

 SHAKESPEARE. 

ONE thing brings forth another. Therefore, when I made 
up my mind to teach you some simple desserts, I as 
much as bound myself to add a lesson about cakes, since 
some of the former do seem to call for some kind of cake to 
complete the course. It is also, in fact, a great convenience 
for a hospitably inclined housewife to have cake ready at all 
hours. If put in a porcelain crock well covered, or in a tin 
box, cake of all sorts will keep for days and weeks, and is 
always at hand to be offered to unexpected guests, or ready for 
any other emergency. To produce good cake is, however, an 
art by itself, and not so easy as people generally suppose. But 
if you set about to do it methodically, and are observant of 
certain strict rules, there is no reason Avhy you should not in 
time excel in it as well as in the other culinary branches. 
Only do not devote to the baking of cakes any more time than 
is necessary to keep yourself reasonably well supplied. For 
cake, as your judgment will tell you after all my teachings, is 
not actual food ; it is merely one of those pleasant auxiliaries 
by which we bring variety into the routine of our indispensable 
fare. 

As to the rules, the flour to be used must be the finest and 
best. See that it is dry, and yet not so dry as to make it 
Rules for baking sccm like dust whcn takcu up in your hand and 
"'^- allowed to sift through your fingers. Flour, if 

kept in a damp place, or a warm one, will spoil easily, and thus 
be unfit to use. Get the other ingredients also of the purest 
and best. Your sugar likewise has to be dry and well pow- 
dered ; your butter must be the freshest, and if too much 
182 



LETTER XXII 183 

salted will have to be worked over in cold water, in order to 
sweeten it. Break each egg separately into a cup before using 
it, so as to test its freshness. Be careful in breaking eggs and 
separating the yolks and whites, for any particle of the former 
mixed with the latter will prevent these from getting stiff when 
whipped. To whip the whites to a snow, put them into a deep 
bowl or, better still, into an open-mouthed pitcher. By then 
using an egg-beater and plying it without stopping, a stiff snow 
will readily form. Test its stiffness by introducing a table- 
spoon : if it will stand up by itself, your snow is just right. 
Do not touch it again until mixed into the cake batter. It is 
better to have one person stir the batter, and another whip the 
whites, and have the snow done the minute it is wanted. But 
if this is impracticable, whip your snow before you stir your 
batter, and set it in a basin of cold water to keep. When a 
recipe tells you to beat butter to a cream, do as follows : 
Weigh your butter first, then put it in the dish in which your 
cake is to be stirred. Place it near the stove for about an 
hour beforehand to get soft, but do not let it melt. Use a fiat 
wooden spoon with a long handle for stirring, and do it vigor- 
ously in one and the same direction, until the butter is white 
and foamy. When adding eggs, let them have about the same 
temperature as the butter, or the latter might curdle. To fur- 
tlier avoid this, add one egg at a time, alternating with a spoon- 
ful of sugar, and mix thoroughly before adding the next. Beat 
all cake batter in one direction, and with uniform alacrity. 
Your success depends a good deal on this. The snow of the 
whites is not added until the last moment. Do not stir it in, 
but mix froni the sides of the vessel toward the middle by gen- 
tle strokes. The batter when finished must be baked at once. 
Another important factor in baking is the fire. It ought to be 
looked after at least an hour beforehand, and be in such a 
condition as to need no handling during the time of baking. 
Most cakes need a moderately hot oven, and some even a 
cool one. A good old test is, to put a piece of thick paper 
into the oven, to shut the door, and open it again after five 
minutes. If the paper is light brown, the oven is moderately 



184 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

hot ; and if yellow, the oven is cool. Now, as to forms for bak- 
ing, it is advisable to have one or, better, two sheet- iron pans 
with low rims, just fitting into your oven, for small cakes either 
to be put directly upon them or for holding a number of small 
cake moulds ; besides, to have a round tin form with a 
straight rim an inch to an inch and a half high, and another 
one with a rim as high as your forefinger. Lastly, have one of 
copper (or tin) fluted and turban-shaped. Your forms must 
be kept immaculately clean, perfectly dry, and, to receive the 
cake batter, must be well buttered inside and dusted over 
either with cracker-dust or powdered sugar, except when 
directed otherwise. For buttering the form, I first melt a 
little butter, then I use a soft painter's brush (kept for this sole 
purpose) to give the form a coating of the butter. Get ready 
your form (or forms) before beginning with the cake, so as to 
have no delay when the latter is to be baked. After the bak- 
ing is done, do not turn out your cake until it has stood a while 
to cool off, or it might not come out unharmed. Even when 
turned out, do not let it get cold all at once, for fear it might 
settle down. Keep all these rules in your mind, for I shall not 
reiterate them. 

The recipes I have selected for your benefit are mostly old 
and tried ones, handed down in the family for generations. 
They are the most wholesome, too, as far as cake goes. The 
first, a very simple one, is associated with mother's and grand- 
mother's cake-box, readily opened to the sesame of bright eyes 
begging and little chubby hands outstretched. I will call the 
German drop Tccipe German drop cakes. Take half a pound 
"^^^- of sugar, half a pound of flour, two e*ggs, and the 

yolks of another two. Beat sugar and eggs together for half an 
hour, then add the flour, and stir until thoroughly mixed. In- 
stead of all wheat flour, you may take half and half wheat flour 
and cornstarch, which will make the cakes somewhat more deli- 
cate. Have ready a sheet-iron pan, give it a very thin coating 
of butter, and from a teaspoon drop upon it little heaps of 
batter. Have sufficient space between them, for they wiU run 
and get, at least, double the original size. Bake in a slow 



LETTER XXII 185 

oven in about half an hour. They must not get brown, but 
look a pale yellow. Loosen them with the blade of a knife 
after they have somewhat cooled off, and let them get quite 
cold on a platter before removing them to the cake-box. They 
will keep for a month. 

Another cake which may be kept for a long time is Israel 
cake. Take for it half a pound of butter, half a pound of 
sugar, half an ounce of cornstarch, three-quarters 
of a pound of wheat flour (both good weight), and 
three eggs. Beat the butter to a cream, add eggs and sugar, 
and the flour at the very last. Stir for half an hour. The batter 
ought to be rather stiff. Butter a shallow pan ; fill into it the 
batter, which smooth evenly with the blade of a knife, then 
dust over it some sugar, and, if you wish it, some almonds cut 
into fine shreds. Bake in a slow oven for about half an hour. 
The cake must be of a light yellow. Cut it into squares, or 
strips an inch and a half by three inches, while warm. 

A plain cake made very quickly is called Jenny Lind cake. 
The reason why it was called after the great singer is not evi- 
dent to me. That it should have been because , , . , . 

Jenny Lmd cake. 

she was plain of features, I am not willing to be- 
lieve ; let us rather suppose that her sweet and simple nature 
suggested it. Take for this cake, two cups of flour, one and a 
half of sugar, a half a cup of butter, one of cream, two eggs, 
one teaspoonful of baking powder. Mix the latter with the 
flour. Beat the butter to a cream, and add the rest in quick 
succession. Stir until hght, and bake in a deep form, and in a 
hot oven for about half an hour. 

This latter cake would be much more deserving the name 
of the following, called Lightning cake. Take a quarter of 
a pound of butter ; beat to a cream ; add one , ,_ . 

_ " -' ' Lightning cake. 

after the other a quarter-pound of sugar, the yolks 
of three eggs, a quarter-pound of flour, a flavoring of lemon 
peel, and the stiff snow of the whites of three eggs. Put into 
a round form and bake a quarter of an hour. When cold, 
powder sugar over the cake, and ornament it with preserved 
fruit. Or cover it with icing, of which later. You also may 



186 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

bake two such cakes, place one on top of the other, and spread 
jelly or marmalade between. A little later I will give you the 
recipe of another layer cake ; but first I wish to make you 
acquainted with a most excellent sponge cake and a sand 
cake, so called from its fine crumbly texture. 

For Sponge cake take half a pound of sugar, the yolks of ten 

eggs, and stir for half an hour. Add the grated peel of half a 

lemon (or any other flavoring), and a quarter of 

Sponge cake. ^ ' ^' ' ^ 

a pound of cornstarch, and lastly the stiff snow 
of five eggs. Bake in a high form in a moderately hot oven, 
for from half to three-quarters of an hour. The top must feel 
firm and dry to the touch. 

For Sand cake, which will keep in good condition for many 
days, take half a pound of butter ; beat to a cream, when add 

the yolks of five eggs and half a pound of sugar. 

Stir for half an hour, and then add gradually half 
a pound of cornstarch, one sherry-glassful of Jamaica rum, the 
grated peel of half a lemon, and lastly the stiff snow of three 
eggs. Bake like the sponge cake. It is best made a couple 
of days before cutting it. 

This Chocolate cake also is very good : Take a quarter of 
a pound of butter, beat to a cream, add the yolks of six eggs, 
^, , , , a half a pound of susjar, and stir for half an hour. 

Chocolate cake. ' o 7 

Then add a quarter of a pound of grated choco- 
late, two tablespoonfuls of cocoa powder, some vanilla flavoring, 
four scant ounces of cornstarch, and at last the stiff snow of 
the six whites of egg. Bake in a form like the preceding 
cakes, but have the oven hot. It will take about three-quarters 
of an hour before it is done. 

Now for the layer cake, which I deem an extra good one. 
Its name is Vienna cake. Take for it one pound of butter, 

beaten to a cream, the yolks of seven e^irs, and 

Vienna cake. ' ' ^^ ' 

seven whole eggs. Add one yolk and one whole 
egg at a time, and after all are mixed in, add gradually one 
pound of sugar. Stir for half an hour, then add one pound of 
the finest possible wheat flour, and the grated peel of one 
lemon. This cake requires a hot oven. Baked in a large. 



) 



LETTER XXII 187 

round, and shallow form, it will make four to five layers, each 
baked separately until of a light brown. You might, however, 
divide the above amount of batter into six or eight smaller 
layers (for which of course smaller forms are required  two 
being put in the oven at one time), and thus make two layer 
cakes with different filling and icing for each. After the layers 
are cold, trim them so as to fit nicely one on top of the other, 
and if too much browned in places, shave off what is objec- 
tionable. Now spread a thin layer of fruit jelly or marma- 
lade (raspberry is the nicest), or some other kind of filling, 
between each layer of cake, and finish the top with icing. 
Spread it evenly over the entire outside of the cake, except, of 
course, its bottom. You are now no longer bound by strict 
rules, weights, and measures. Your fancy comes into play to 
select, decorate, and even invent. You may make a cake fill- 
ing of any of the whipped creams I have indicated to you in 
my last letter. Or you may use for it the cremes I gave you 
the recipes for, adding, perhaps, a little gelatine to prevent 
their running. But, mind you, the creams will not keep any 
longer than a day or two. After that they will get sour. 
You might also take some of the icing you mean to use and 
fill your cake with it. I will speak about icings presently, 
but wish to give you first the recipes for two particularly nice 
fillings. 

The first is a Nut filhng : Take two ounces of sugar, and 
make a boiled sirup of it with three tablespoonfuls of water, 
to which add three ounces of walnuts (or hazel- jwo nice cake 
nuts), peeled and pounded fine in a mortar, with ^"''"s^. 
the addition of a tablespoonful of cream. Add half a tea- 
spoonful of vanilla essence, and one ounce of candied orange 
peel minced. Stir until thick. 

The second is an Orange filling, for which take the peel of 
one orange, cut off very thin and soak it in the juice squeezed 
from the orange for fifteen minutes. Remove the peel, and add 
the juice to two ounces of sugar; add the yolks of two eggs, 
beaten to a foam. Add also one teaspoonful of flour, and 
one gill of white wine. Stir the whole over the fire until it 



ISS LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

thickens. Then let get somewhat cool, and mix with it the 
stiff snow of one white of egg. 

A simple icing is made by taking two ounces of powdered 
sugar and one white of egg, stirring both together for fifteen 
Cake icings and miuutes. Add cithcr lemon, orange, or any 
ornamentrng, other kind of fruit juice, according to your 
fancy. When done, spread it over your cake in a thin 
sheet, and put in a place where it will dry. A Chocolate icing is 
easiest made thus : Take a quarter of a pound of chocolate, 
break up, and soften in a warm place ; mix with two ounces 
of sugar and, stirring well, gradually add the whites of two 
eggs. 

To ornament your cakes after they are iced, you take one 
or more kinds of preserved or candied fruit, arrange them in 
patterns, with leaves cut out of candied citron or orange rind. 
Add, if you will go to that extent, some beading and 
arabesquing of icing (of a different color if you prefer) by 
putting a teaspoonful at a time into a funnel-shaped paper bag, 
with an opening about as large as a pinhead. 

To make the most of my remaining space, I now give you 
in quick succession a number of recipes of small cakes and 
Small cakes or tidbits, which you may ornament likewise as 
^^''^' your fancy leads you. First of all I will mention 

that you may use the recipes for sponge and sand cakes 
to make pretty little tarts, baked in small tin or copper 
moulds, which come with raised patterns. The only difference 
I would counsel is, to take all the whites for the snow, instead 
of part of them. It will make the tarts lighter. For that 
reason you must be particular not to fill the moulds more than 
three-quarters full. After turning out the tarts, ice them, and 
dust over them, before the icing hardens, some chopped pista- 
chio-nuts (or almonds). This is merely in the way of a sug- 
gestion. 

For Chocolate tarts take a quarter of a pound of sugar, an 
ounce and a half of grated chocolate, and the yolks of six 
eggs. Stir for a quarter of an hour ; add three ounces of 
cornstarch and the whites beaten to a snow. 



/ 



LETTER XXII 189 

Portuguese Drop Cake.  Take butter, eggs, sugar, and 
fiour, of equal weight. Beat the butter to a cream, add the 
eggs, sugar, and flour. Stir for half an hour, and drop in little 
heaps size of a walnut on a sheet-iron pan, which previously 
you slightly dust over with flour. Then take a preserved 
cherry for each drop cake, place it in the centre, and press 
down far enough to fix it in its place. Bake in a moderately 
hot oven. 

Sugar Wafers.  Take sugar the weight of two eggs, and 
flour the weight of one egg. Stir the sugar with the addition 
of three eggs for a quarter of an hour, then add the flour and 
half a teaspoonful of minced orange peel, or candied orange 
flowers. Put in little heaps on a very thinly buttered sheet- 
iron pan, three inches apart. Dust them over with granulated 
sugar, and bake in a moderately hot oven. Remove them from 
the pan while hot, and bend them over a rounded stick in the 
shape of a scroll. Or shape them like a cornucopia and fill 
with whipped cream just before serving. 

To make Macaroons take half a pound of blanched and 
skinned almonds, of which five or six may be bitter. Pound 
them to a paste in a mortar with the addition 

,. -, All 1- Macaroons. 

of the whites of three eggs. Add to this paste 
ten ounces of sugar, and stir for a quarter of an hour. Put 
in little round or oblong heaps on a sheet of white paper dusted 
over with flour. Dust granulated sugar over them, and bake 
in a slow oven. 

Filets de Vent.  Take six ounces of sugar, the white of one 
egg, the grated peel of half a lemon (or some vanilla flavor- 
ing), and stir until like a thick icing. Bake in little heaps on 
paper, and in a slow oven. 

Kisses.  Take one tablespoonful of sugar to every white 
of one egg ; flavor with cinnamon, vanilla, lemon, or whatever 
you choose. Beat with a spoon until quite light. Drop in tiny 
heaps on a sheet of white paper, and bake in a very cool oven. 
They must not brown, but get hard on top. 

Meringues.  Proceed in the same way, with this difference : 
beat the whites to a stiff snow first, then add the sugar Uttle by 



190 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

little. Put oval heaps the size of half an egg on paper. 
Have a board underneath the paper, and place both board and 
paper into a very slow oven to bake the meringues. After 
they get glazed on top, which will be in about twenty-five to 
thirty minutes, remove them from the paper, and if not hollow 
inside, take out from below what is soft with a teaspoon. Fill 
the space left with fruit jelly, or whipped cream flavored. 
Put two and two together, and serve. 

Little bits of cake or confectionery are called hoiichees (mouth- 
fuls). They make a nice show and are not difficult to get up. 
Especially, if you should happen to have some 
remnants of sand cake, orany other kmd of a rather 
solid texture. Cut them into slices three-quarters of an inch 
thick, spread with marmalade or some other filling, place two 
and two together, cut into pieces about an inch and a half 
square, or into lozenges, and cover over with icing. Dust 
minced pistachio-nuts, almonds, or candied orange peel on 
top, or garnish in some other way. 

For bouchees of another kind take the yolks of three eggs, add 
seven teaspoonfuls of sugar, and three heaped tablespoonfuls of 
flour. Stir until foamy, then add the snow of the three whites. 
Rub flour over a baking-board and roll out to a thin sheet. 
Rub flour also over the rolling-pin you use. Then take a sherry 
glass, dip it into flour, and cut out round pieces, which you bake 
on buttered paper. Place two and two upon each other, with 
a filling between, and cover with a thick chocolate icing. Or 
fill with raspberry jelly, and cover with icing made with rasp- 
berry sirup thickened by mixing with sugar sirup. Dip the 
bouchees into it, and put in the oven for about two minutes to 
dry. 

I would count candied fruit also as bouchees. It is easily made, 
and, both by itself as well as for ornamenting, is a great delicacy 
How to candy f^J* thosc who Hkc swccts. But you understand 
^'"''- that all this is a luxury, in which to indulge only 

occasionally. Take any kind of fresh fruit, divide those which 
are too large into halves, and boil in water until tender. Drain, 
and make a sirup  a pint of water to a pound of sugar  which 



LETTER XXII 191 

boil until by dipping a wooden skewer into cold water, then into 
the boiling sirup and back again into the cold water, you can 
whirl the sirup sticking to the skewer into a globule, which will 
crack in breaking off. In this sirup you drop your fruit, allow- 
ing it to boil up a few times. Then remove from the fire, and let 
the fruit remain in the sirup for twenty-four hours, when place 
the fruit side by side on a wide colander by means of a skim- 
mer. Dust powdered sugar over it, and set the colander in a 
lukewarm oven over night. When dry, the fruit is done. For 
nuts, oranges, and chestnuts, you do somewhat differently. The 
oranges you divide into sections, the walnuts you cut into halves, 
the chestnuts you boil and peel ; and one like the other you 
merely immerse into the sirup described, then take them out 
again, and put aside for the sugar to dry. 

To candy orange peel, take the whole thickness. Cut into 
even sections before peelmg ; boil in water until tender, then 
put into cold water, and let it remain in it for two or candied orange 
three hours. Drain, and for each half a pound of p""^'- 
peel take ten ounces of sugar. Add water to the latter, and 
boil for about five minutes, then pour over the peel, and let 
stand over night. On the following day boil peel and sirup 
until the former gets transparent, and the latter thick. Remove 
the peel on to some paper, and let it get dry. You may also 
put it into glass jars, pour the sirup over it, and keep it tied up. 
In any case, save the sirup ; it will do you good service for one 
thing or another. 

Will this do for you? There are hundreds more of nice 
recipes for cakes and sweetmeats, but too much of a good thing 
is merely embarrassing. Therefore I close this subject. 



LETTER XXIII 

O, 'tis most sweet. 

 Shakespeare. 

IN the last two letters I made mention more than once of 
preserves,  especially jellies, marmalades, and sirup, neces- 
sary for carrying out certain recipes for cake and light desserts. 
I deem it good policy to have a store laid in of those pre- 
serves, each kind in its season, and home-made. It is done 
with comparatively little expense, and, moreover, they are far 
better than those bought at the dealers'. I will give you here 
a restricted number of recipes for putting up fruit ; as many 
as I think you will need for the present. They are recipes 
well-tried many a time over. First of all, however, I have to 
Rui s f r uttin ^^joi^^ on you the following precepts : For putting 
up stores of up any kind of stores, be sure that the strictest 

Dr6S6rV6S 

cleanliness prevails in regard 'to the food you 
use, as well as to everything coming in contact with it. The 
more rigidly this rule is carried out, the more certain you 
will be to exclude all germs disastrous to your coinplete suc- 
cess. See that your preserving-kettle be porcelain-lined, and 
never used for any other purpose. Your skimmer also ought 
to be of porcelain, and the spoon you use of shining silver. 
Whatever it is you put up must be of the freshest and best. 
Cleanse it carefully, and drain it well after washing in cold 
v/ater. The sugar also must be the best and purest, and if 
vinegar is used, buy onlv prime cider vinegar which is neither 
too mild nor too strong. If a recipe calls for sirup in which 
to cook the fruit, you prepare it by putting a pint of water to 
every pound of sugar into your preserving-kettle. Put it on 
the fire and, stirring from time to time, let it come to a boil. 
Take off the scum that rises, and continue to do so until your 
sugar is clear, when it will be ready for further use. 
192 



s 



LETTER XXm 193 

Have your glassware for receiving your preserves ready at 
hand when they are done. It also will have to be scrupulously 
clean, and dry at the same time. I put my glass jars or jelly- 
glasses in a place where they will get thoroughly hot, and fit to 
receive the boiling fruit, when intended to be put up air-tight. 
You must make sure, however, that no draft of cool air 
strikes the glass, or it will crack in spite of former care. Wipe 
the edges of it clean with a towel dipped into hot water ; then 
secure the lids to keep out the air, and after the glass gets cool 
tighten the screws once more. 

The first of all fresh fruit are strawberries, but they are diffi- 
cult to preserve on account of their volatile aroma, which 
makes them so delicious when eaten fresh from the vines. 
They are not the fruit for you to waste time and money on. 
When cherries come, however, get some of the sour cherries put 
dark, sour kind, and put them up air-tight. They "P air-tight. 
are delicious as a compote in winter, and far more whole- 
some than fruit put up in the over-sweet, old-fashioned 
way. Stone your fruit, then weigh it, and for every pound of 
it take half a pound of sugar. Put both together into your 
kettle, and place over a moderate fire. Let boil for about 
twenty minutes, stirring from time to time, and taking off the 
scum which rises. If you have more juice than needed for 
filling your jars with fruit, add to every pint of juice which is 
left half a pound more of sugar ; boil it for a minute or two 
longer, and fill into bottles, which seal up. It makes an excel- 
lent pudding sauce, and will do for some desserts, when fruit 
sirup is mentioned. 

To put up blackhearts I can recommend the following : 
Take them whole, merely removing the stems, and for every 
three pounds of cherries take one pound of sugar Blackhearts put 
and one cupful of vinegar. When boihng, watch ''p air-tight. 
the cherries, and just as soon as they get tender, which will be 
in about ten or fifteen minutes, take them off the fire, skim, 
and fill them hot into air-tight jars. They ought to look plump 
and natural. They are delicious for use in winter. You can 
put up plums the same way, if they are fully ripe. If you wish 



194 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

them perfect, you peel them before cooking. By pouring boil- 
ing water over the plums, and letting them remain in it until 
you can bear your hand in the water, the skins will peel off 
without much trouble. 

After cherry time we have raspberries, blackberries, and cur- 
rants to gather in for future use. The following recipe is 
Raspberry and equally good for raspbcrry and for blackberry 
biacioerry jam. jam; Take thrcc-quartcrs of a pound of sugar 
for every pound of berries. Put over a slow fire, and allow to 
boil for twenty minutes from the time boiling commences. 
Fill hot into air-tight jars. The raspberry jam is improved by 
taking part currants, one-third of the latter and two-thirds of 
raspberries. 

To make raspberry sirup squeeze the berries through a nap- 
kin until all the juice is extracted. Boil the latter for fifteen 
How to make miuutcs, skimmiug continually, and then add one 
raspberry sirup. pound of sugar for cvcry pint of juice. Let boil 
up once with the sugar, and take off the fire. Fill into bottles, 
cork up, and seal. This sirup retains all the flavor of the ber- 
ries, and is delicious as a beverage, mixed with water, and for 
cooking purposes. For jelly you proceed in the 
berries, *bia?k^* samc wav, cxccpt that you allow the juice to boil 
cuISs.^"*^ for fully two minutes longer after the sugar has been 

added. Fill in jelly-glasses ; cover them loosely 
with sheets of white paper, and let the jelly get firm. Then cut 
round pieces of white paper to fit into the apertures of the 
glasses. Moisten these pieces with brandy, and place directly 
over the jelly. Finally, paste, white paper over the tops of the 
glasses, and your jelly is ready to store away. Blackberry jelly, 
which is very good and wholesome, is made in the same way. 
For currant jelly I can recommend this recipe : Squeeze all the 
juice out of some red currants, and for every pint of it take 
one pound of sugar. Choose the best granulated, and pound 
it in a mortar to a powder. Pass it through the finest sieve 
you can procure, so as to be quite sure that no coarse particles 
remain. Then put the sugar in a deep porcelain bowl, and 
into a heated oven to get dry and hot, but not so hot as 



I 



LETTER XXIII 195 

to melt. When quite hot, take it out and, while stirring the 
sugar incessantly, pour your juice into it by degrees, a small 
quantity at a time. As soon as the juice is all absorbed and 
the sugar entirely dissolved, the jelly will be ready to fill into 
glasses, and to be put away. If done carefully this jelly sur- 
passes every other kind in color and flavor. It will keep as 
long as three years. I will mention here that it is a good plan 
to mark all your preserves with your name, what kind it is, and 
the date, especially the latter. 

When peaches make their appearance in plenty, I counsel 
you to buy several basketfuls at a time, and select the most 
perfect ones for putting up " fresh," while of the How to put up 
specky or inferior ones you make a thin marma- p^^'^'^e*- 
lade, or rather a compote, for which I have my own recipe. 
Free the peaches of their skins and stones. The perfect ones 
you cut into halves, and make a sirup for them. To every 
pound of fruit you take one-quarter of a pound of sugar, and 
to every pound of the latter a very scanty pint of water. 
After the sirup is clear, drop into the boiling liquid your halves 
of peaches, and allow them to boil up just once. Then remove 
the kettle from the fire, and as quickly as possible drop your 
fruit, piece by piece, into your hot jars, fill them up with the 
sirup, and screw the lids down on them. Peaches done in 
this way will have almost the full aroma of the fresh fruit, when 
opened in winter. The same is the case with finely flavored 
pears, which I peel, cut into halves, take out the cores, but 
let the stems remain on the corresponding halves. Then I 
proceed in the same manner as stated in regard to peaches. 
I have done even cantelope in this way with success. 

For the peach marmalade you proceed thus : After your 
fruit is peeled and stoned you cut it into small pieces, which 
may be as irregular as you please. Then weigh it, and for 
every pound of it take one-quarter of a pound of sugar, pro- 
vided the peaches are fully ripe. If not, take two ounces more 
of sugar for each pound of fruit. Put the latter into a tureen 
and mix it with your sugar. Put in a cool place until the next 
day. Open four peach stones out of every dozen stones you 



196 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

have taken from your fruit, and take out the kernels. Free 
them of their brown skins, which you can do easily after hav- 
ing scalded them with boiling water. Keep the kernels until 
you put your sugared peaches over the fire next morning. 
Then add them to the peaches, which will have plenty of juice 
of their own by this time. Boil them over a moderate fire for 
twenty minutes, stirring and skimming frequently. Fill into 
air-tight jars. This mild preserve has never failed to find 
favor when placed on my table. 

I add a first-rate recipe for brandy peaches, of which you 
might do well to put up a half-gallon jarful. Accompanied 
A recipe for by icc-cream they furnish you with a choice des- 

brandy peaches. ggj.|. course for 3. little dluncr party. Take fruit 
which is fully ripe, and yet firm and speckless. Pour boiling 
water over it, and leave it covered over for a few minutes. 
Then take out one peach after another, and with a clean crash 
towel rub as much of the skin off as you can without seriously 
breaking it. Have ready some large, open-mouthed glass jars, 
fill them with your peaches, sprinkling granulated sugar over 
them sufficient to cover them slightly. Put a thick sprinkling 
of sugar on top, and then fill the jars up with the best white 
California brandy. Screw up air-tight, and set away. 

Tedious as it is to put up quinces, I consider them fully 
worth the trouble they cause, and would advise you to try the 
following way of making a fine preserve of sliced quinces, a 
jelly, and a stiff marmalade, all out of the same fruit at the same 
How to preserve time. Peel your quinces, quarter and core them, 
quinces. being careful to save the seeds. Take all the 

perfect parts and divide in even slices. Make a sirup, taking 
equal parts of sugar and fruit, and when ready drop into the 
boiling liquid the sliced quinces. Cook slowly, and skim well. 
When the quinces turn red and look clear, they are done. 
Remove them with a skimmer, and put into jars. Boil the 
sirup until thick, and almost like a jelly, when pour over the 
fruit, and screw up the jars. Some add a lemon sliced thin, 
and freed from all seeds, to the quinces as soon as they begin 
to turn red. This is a matter of taste. While the shoes are 



LETTER XXIII 197 

cooking, take a second kettle or pan, put into it the parings, 
cores, and seeds, add water sufficient to cover them. When 
perfectly soft strain through a clean napkin. Meanwhile cut 
up all remaining imperfect parts of your quinces into small 
pieces, and when your kettle is empty put them in, add the 
liquor drained from cores and parings, and cook until quite 
soft. Drain again, mash the quince through a sieve, weigh it, 
and put once more into your kettle. Add sugar, three-quarters 
of a pound to a pound of the quince, and a cupful of the I 
drained liquor for every pound of fruit. Boil until thick, stir- - 
ring pretty much all the time to prevent scorching. Fill into 
cups and glasses. It will turn out firm, and, eaten with cream, 
is deUcious. Now have your kettle cleaned, in order to make 
your jelly. Take the remaining liquor from parings, etc., and 
for every pint of it add one pound of sugar. Boil, skimming 
frequently, until it jellies. Test it by letting a drop from your 
spoon fall on a cold plate. If it turns into jelly remove your 
kettle from the fire at once. Quinces jelly easily; be careful, 
therefore, to watch the right moment, lest your jelly should 
turn to sirup. 

I believe this is all you will need of sweet preser\^es, with- 
out running the risk of being extravagant. There are but a 
few recipes for pickles which I would like you to know. The 
material for them is cheap, and you will not find the like of 
these pickles in any market. Aside from being refreshing 
when eaten with meat, they will serve you for making and 
trimming salads and various dishes. They are of the wholesome 
kind, too,  not overcharged with hot spice. The recipe for 
pickled beets I gave you before, when speaking about salads.^ 
I now have for you 

The Sea-captain's Pickled Cucumbers.  You will find them 
the best you ever ate. P'or fifty cucumbers take half a 
pint of salt. Put into a vessel large enough to hold them ; 
add the salt, and pour boiling water over them sufficient to 
cover them up. Let stand over night, then wipe them dry, 

1 See p. 154. 



198 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

and arrange in large stone jars or crocks. Boil vinegar suf- 
ficient to cover your cucumbers. Just before it comes to 
a boil throw in your spice, viz. for every two quarts of vinegar 
half an ounce of mace, one ounce of black pepper seeds, one 
ounce of mustard seeds, and a quarter of a horseradish root 
cut into slices. Pour vinegar and spices over your cucumbers 
boiling hot, and when cold tie up and keep in a cool place. 
The following is a recipe for 

Tarragon Gherkins.  Take cucumbers not larger than 
your little finger, wash them, and rub them all over with a fine 
brush, then put them in brine strong enough to bear an egg, 
for twenty-four hours, when drain, and dry them with a clean 
towel. Arrange them in either glass or small stone jars layer- 
wise, and put between each layer about half a dozen black pepper 
seeds and a sprig of tarragon. You may also add a bit of summer 
savory, and some shallots, or tiny onions whole, but this is not 
necessary. Now boil vinegar and pour it over the cucumbers 
boihng hot. Lay a few shavings of horseradish on top of each 
jar ; it will help to keep the pickles. Tie paper over them 
when cold, and in a week try a pickle. If lacking in salt, add 
some to the vinegar. They will keep all winter if kept in a 
cool place. 

A good old-fashioned relish, which looks appetizing in a glass 
dish, and will also serve as part of a mixed winter salad, is 

Pickled Cabbage.  Take a firm head of cabbage. Cut it into 
the thinnest shreds, as for salad ; then chop fine. Put into a 
large bowl, and mix a heaped tablespoonful of salt with it. Let 
stand over night ; and next morning drain well. Mince one 
small onion ; chop two red bull-nose peppers (of which first 
remove the seeds) ; add one tablespoonful of white and one 
of black mustard seed, a sprinkle of celery seed, a few 
whole cloves, and a dozen or more black pepper seeds. Mix 
all this with the chopped cabbage ; pack into a stone jar ; cover 
the whole with a cabbage leaf, and fill up with boiling hot 
vinegar. 

I add the recipe for a very nice sweet pickle, to eat with 
cooked ham or any other kind of salt or cured meat. 



LETTER XXIII 199 

Spiced Pumpkin.  Peel the pumpkin, remove the seeds, and 
cut the marrow into pieces about half an inch wide, two inches 
long, and as thick as wide. Cover with vinegar in a porcelain 
vessel. Let stand over night in a cool place. The following 
day drain off the vinegar, and throw it away. Then take half a 
pound of sugar and four tablespoonfuls of vinegar for every 
pound of pumpkin, and place on the stove to boil until the 
latter begins to look clear and glassy. Add the following spice 
before it is quite done : three cloves, a small stick of cinnamon, 
and the peel of half a lemon for every pound of pumpkin. 
Put into glass jars, and if the sirup is not thick enough when 
the pumpkin is done, cook it a while longer, before pouring it 
over the latter. The rin Is of watermelon may be done in the 
same way, after peeling off the hard green outside. 

Of the various catsups which can be made at home, I coun- 
sel you to make but the following, since it is easiest, and better 
than any you buy. 

Tomato Catsup.  After washing ripe tomatoes, scald and 
peel them ; then measure, and for half a peck of them take 
one scant cupful of salt, two roots of horseradish grated, one 
ounce each of black and white mustard seed ; four red peppers, 
three onions, one ounce of nasturtiums, all chopped fine ; half 
an ounce of celery seed, one teaspoonful each of ground black 
pepper and cloves ; and one tablespoonful of ground cinna- 
mon. Press off the juice of the tomatoes, and add to the latter 
all the other ingredients. After mixing thoroughly, pour over 
the whole one quart of vinegar ; fill into bottles, and cork and 
seal well. You will notice that no cooking is needed to make 
this catsup. You may leave out the nasturtiums, if more con- 
venient, and also the celery seed, since some people object to 
the latter. 

There is one more item you might add to your stores, 
and that is tarragon vinegar, since you can make it with little 
trouble so much cheaper than you buy it. 

Tarragon Vinegar.  Take a quart bottle, fill it with the best 
cider vinegar, and add about five ounces of tarragon leaves, 
after having stripped them off their stems, and dried in a warm 



200 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

but shady spot. If you choose, you may also add a teaspoon- 
ful of salt, a few shallots, and a little pimpernel. In France 
they add instead, some lemon peel and a few cloves. But this 
as good as neutralizes the flavor of tarragon. Your vinegar 
once prepared, you cork your bottle, and put it for a fortnight 
in a place where it will be exposed to the sun. After that time 
filter your vinegar through a clean piece of flannel or linen, and 
put it away, tightly corked, for use. 

It seems to me that now I might safely leave you to your- 
self. You have succeeded already, with the help I lent you in 
these letters, in giving a dinner party, which has delighted every 
one permitted to be your guest ; your husband, I am told, looks 
well and cheerful, thanks to his wife's art, and his purse, as you 
write to me, is not the loser for the good fare on your table. 
Well, my friend, is there anything still to add to my teachings ? 
I will await your answer. 



LETTER XXIV 

Unsightly dishes always spoil 

The most dehcious morsel, 

Serve it, though modestly, with grace : 

Your guests will sup with pleasure. 

YOUR wish is granted : I will give you all the assistance I 
can, to get up an evening entertainment which does not 
overstep your means, and yet will please the most fastidious of 
your friends. I will suggest to you various dishes and relishes 
the cost of which is moderate, while it remains for you to act 
on these suggestions, and with your taste and skill to make the 
most of them, not forgetting to serve your menu in the most 
tempting manner possible. No pains must be spared, of course, 
but head and hands be devoted to the task. 

I have always found that pickled oysters were welcome at 
evening parties. Panned or scalloped oysters also are very 
nice ; but, they require the presence of a good p. , , . 
cook in the kitchen, while pickled oysters can be 
made a day or so before the entertainment. I have here for 
you a very good recipe : To pickle a hundred oysters, drain 
off the liquor ; put it on the fire to boil ; remove the scum 
rising, and when clear add the necessary salt (which you must 
prove by tasting), a teacupful of vinegar, a tablespoonful of 
black pepper seeds, and two or three blades of mace. Let 
boil up, then add the oysters after having picked them over 
carefully to remove fragments of shell. Let simmer for five 
minutes, and put either in glass jars or a large tureen covered 
up. Serv^e in a large glass bowl. 

I merely need to remind you here of the mixed salads  
chicken, Italian, lobster, etc.  which you have learned to 
make by this time. The chef-d'oeuvre which, I am sure, you 

201 



202 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

will produce, is a fit centre-piece for your table, and will serve 
you better than an expensive mass of flowers. Now you have 
oysters and a salad ; and, to set off these two chief dishes, I 
counsel to have several plates with sandwiches of different 
kinds, both inviting to the eye and appetizing to the palate. 
It is about as much of an art to make the sandwiches I mean 
as it is to compose a salad. But, after once mastering the art, 
you will never be at a loss to give your supper or lunch table 
an enticing aspect. 

To prepare yourself for these sandwiches you have to go to 
c J  u A work in several ways. First of all vou have the 

Sandwiches, and _ ^ > 

how to make choicc of scvcral kiuds of mixed butter for spread- 
ing them, which can be made days beforehand, 
since that sort of preparation will keep. Here are three 
recipes. 

Mustard Butter.  Take two tablespoonfuls of mustard (I 
would choose the French) for every piece of butter the size of 
an egg. See that the butter is soft  not hard  and work 
the two ingredients together, by means of a stone mortar and 
pestle, until perfectly blended. The two following you work 
in the same way. 

Anchovy Butter.  Take one teaspoonful of anchovy paste 
to butter the size of an egg. If you should find that the 
anchovy flavor were not predominant enough, add a little 
more paste. 

Sardine and Herb Butter combined is the best looking, as 
well as the best flavored of the three. The ingredients are 
salted sardines three ounces, butter a quarter of a pound, 
minced parsley a scant tablespoonful, and minced tarragon a 
teaspoonful. Wash the sardines well, but do not soak them ; 
split them and remove the bones ; then cut them into fine 
strips, and finally chop them as fine as possible. Mix and rub 
together all the ingredients until thoroughly blended. 

The two latter kinds of butter, when spread on bread, are 
palatable enough without anything else. But, used as a founda- 
tion or envelope for meat, fish, salad, etc., all three kinds will 
lend a delightfully //^^/^iji^/ flavor to either substance. 



LETTER XXIV 203 

Next, order your bread the day before you need it, lest it 
will be too spongy to slice down nicely. Order some long, 
round loav^es of French bread, and some square and oblong 
loaves of home-made (or Vienna) bread. The former, when 
sliced, will furnish you with small, disk-like pieces, surrounded 
by a crisp brown crust, which many persons like. For those 
who do not, you will have the other kind of bread, of which 
you may trim off the crust, after slicing it. All slices must, of 
course, be as thin as possible. I would, however, take part 
of the trimmed slices, and toast them slightly on the under side. 
I will tell you later for what purpose. The slices from the 
home-made bread are too large to use whole. Therefore, cut 
them either crosswise, so as to form two triangular pieces, 
or lengthwise, which will give you two oblong ones. Now 
butter some with butter pure and simple, and some with one 
or another kind of mixed butter ; and then set about to finish 
them in different ways,  something for the individual taste of 
each guest. Have ready boiled tongue, ham, veal, etc., all 
chopped up fme, and each by itself. Make use of boiled or 
roasted meat you may have on hand. In the large cities you 
can buy any quantity of cooked ham, tongue, etc., which saves 
work. Or buy the potted meats, of which some, however, 
are very highly spiced. With them you can do nothing more 
than spread over buttered bread. But the chopped meat 
you may heap up on the latter ; and you may mix it with a 
mayonnaise, or a sauce ravigotc} thickened by a little gelatine. 
Then, provide some capers, pickled cucumbers, both chopped 
fine, some olives (of the small kind), some hard-boiled eggs, 
grated cheese, and, if you will take the additional trouble, 
some amber-colored aspic, either chopped or cut into dice, 
and use for garnishing. Cut the eggs into slices ; keep the 
rings of whites thus obtained intact, excepting the end pieces, 
which you mince ; and rub the yellow into fine crumbs. All 
this  and more which I have not mentioned  is your material 
with which to do what you please, provided you produce the 

1 See p. 74. 



204 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

most enticing and satisfactory bouchees your guests have ever 
tasted. I will suggest a way of doing it. Have two large 
round plates and two smaller ones ; have each covered with 
a fringed napkin or doily. Put in the centre of the large 
plates (or dishes), respectively, a little pyramid of olives and 
pink radishes. Surround them with disk-like pieces of buttered 
bread. Put in the centre of each of these pieces a ring of 
white of ^gg (hard-boiled), and in the centre of it some minced 
tongue, while on the outside you rim the white of egg with the 
cnunbled yolk, with a caper set on top of it in short inter\'als, 
like so many beads. Put, also, a caper in the very centre, on 
top of the minced tongue. These sandwiches you surround 
by others of triangular shape. It takes two rows of them to 
form a ribbon-like rim : the first row yo\x place point outward ; 
the second row point inward (toward the centre of the plate). 
Have the first row of triangles toasted on the under side ; 
spread caviare on the upper side, and place upon it one-half 
of a thin slice of lemon. For the second row of triangles, I 
advise ham and white of &gg, both minced and kept separate, 
so as to form two smaller triangles on each of the larger trian- 
gles of bread. ( Do not forget that each piece of bread must 
first of all be buttered.) Around this double row I would 
place a band of oblong pieces of bread, toasted on the under 
side, spread with fresh butter on top, and the latter covered 
with grated cheese of two kinds ; for instance, Gruyere on one 
slice and Chester on the next. Take a knife, and with it 
smooth over and press down all minced and chopped ingredi- 
ents, so as to make them cling to the buttered bread. Finally, 
garnish with a few sprigs of tarragon, little bunches of water- 
cress, or a wreath of smilax and some stray flowers of migno- 
nette, and your sandwiches will look tempting enough even 
for a person who has dined. The two smaller plates I would 
fill with doubled sandwiches, i.e. two and two put together, 
the inside of each piece of bread being spread with mixed 
butter of one kind or the other. Between these two covers 
I would put some chopped meat, either by itself, or mixed 
with a mayonnaise, or with the simple addition of some 



LETTER xxrv 205 

chopped pickles. Arrange these sandwiches symmetrically, 
one above the other, either forming a high square, or an 
octagon, or pyramid. Garnish with greens, and a flower here 
and there. 

If you think your guests would like to treat themselves to 
an indigestion by following the fashion and munching some 
salted almonds, which certainly are very palatable. Recipe for 
I will be your accomplice, and give you here the ^^'^^^ aimonds. 
recipe : Take the best and largest almonds in market. 
Scald them with boiling water ; let stand until cool, when the 
brown skins will pull off readily. Wash them in cold water, 
put on a clean towel, and rub them dry. For a pint of them, 
take two teaspoonfuls of olive oil (or of melted butter) ; mix 
and put them on a shallow sheet-iron pan ; distribute evenly, 
and dust them over with a tablespoonful of salt. Place them 
in a slow oven ; and, after about five to ten minutes, stir them 
up, add another tablespoonful of salt, and put back in the 
oven until they have turned slightly brown. Stir again, and 
remove on a sheet of paper, to get cool. 

You now will have to dehberate whether it might be best for 
you to order ice-cream for ih^fifiale of your entertainment, or 
to get up yourself a sweet and yet cooling dish. If not in a 
position to get a really good ice-cream, I would rather do the 
latter. For this purpose I recommend to you a viacedoine of 
fruit, for which I gave you more than one recipe.^ To accom- 
pany it, have some nice cake, or bouchees of cake, and be 
sure to choose some in \vhich you have succeeded before. Or 
have simply some sweet wafers, which you buy in small tin 
boxes. Now, if you add to all this a cooling beverage, you 
may consider your menu complete for the evening. I know 
of several rather inexpensive beverages, the recipes of which 
might be of use to you now and on future occasions. They 
are the following :  

Tea Punch.  Take five heaped teaspoonfuls of black tea. 
Have your teapot hot before you put it in. Pour over it 

1 See p. 178. 



206 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

enough boiling water to cover. Allow to draw for three min- 
utes, then fill up with boiling water. Let draw for two min- 
utes, and pour through a tea sieve into a pitcher which will 
hold two quarts. Fill the teapot up with boiling water again 
and again, allowing it each time to draw for two or three min- 
utes, until your pitcher is full. Meanwhile, heat a bottle of 
California table claret (which need not cost any more than 
twenty cents a bottle), until just before boiling; put half a 
pound of sugar into the punch-bowl, add the peel and juice 
of one lemon, and pour over it the hot claret and the tea. 
Finally, add half a pint of arrack. This economical punch is 
equally good cold or hot. If you wish it cold, set it in ice for 
several hours before serving. 

Cardinal Punch.  Take three bottles of light Rhine or 
Moselle wine, and pour it over a small soup-plateful of fresh 
fruit which has been sugared for about an hour beforehand. 
The best fruit to take is either oranges, peaches, pineapple, or 
strawberries  the three former to be divided into even slices. 
Add sugar to taste. Do not sweeten too much  about one 
pound of sugar altogether. Let stand, covered up, for two 
hours, then add half a bottle of cheap claret. Put in ice to 
chill thoroughly, and when being served add  the recipe says 
a bottle of champagne, which I convert into  a bottle of 
Apollinaris kept on ice. The latter has the same sparkUng 
effect, and the punch does not lose by it in quality. 

Snow Punch.  Take two pounds of sugar, and boil with 
one quart of water for twenty minutes ; then pour over the 
peels of three oranges shaved off very thin ; cover up, and 
let stand for one hour. Add the juice of four lemons, and. 
pour through a hair sieve. Put into a covered vessel and pack 
in ice and salt for several hours. Before serving, add the 
whites of six eggs, and whip until quite foamy, when finally 
add, still whipping, six tiny glassfuls of Jamaica rum or mara- 
schino cordial. Serve from a bowl, or in glasses filled in the 
pantry. 

Ambrosia.  Take one quart of milk, add vanilla extract suf- 
ficient to give it a pleasant flavor, half a wineglassful of cherry 



LETTER XXIV 207 

brandy (Kirsch), half a small pineapple cut into very small 
pieces, and sugar to taste. Let stand covered up and on ice 
for three hours. This drink is served in small glasses at court 
parties in Berlin. 

A very refreshing drink also, when kept on ice, is Almond 
Milk. To make it, take one pound of sweet and one dozen 
bitter almonds. Scald, skin, and drop them into ., , .,, 

' ' * ^ Almond milk. 

cold water. Drain, and pound them, with the 
addition of some water, in a mortar until in very small frag- 
ments. Put them into a bowl and mix with cold water to the 
consistency of thin mush. Let stand for about fifteen minutes, 
then squeeze the liquid through a very clean napkin (there 
must be no starch or indigo in it). Put more water on the 
almonds; let stand, and squeeze again. xA.dd the liquid you 
obtain to the former. The almonds are now of no further 
use. Sweeten the almond milk to taste, and flavor with 
orange-flower essence, rose water, or vanilla. By adding a 
little fresh milk, the color is improved. 

But if you will not go to the extent of all this trouble and 
expense, a beverage made simply of raspberry juice or sirup 
mixed with water, and chilled on ice, is also an agreeable and 
refreshing drink. 

Now, before ending my advisory correspondence on the art 
of cooking,  which has taken a larger scope than I at first 
intended,  I will note down, for your guidance, a few menus 
for small lunch and dinner parties, keeping in view the hmited 
means you have to deal with, in league with your art. 



MENUS FOR LUNCHEONS 

No. I 

Amber-colored broth, in cups, with cheese crusts. 

Lobster cutlets. 

Salpicon royal, on shells. 

Chicken croquettes, with celery salad, mayonnaise dressing. 

Cofifee creme, in cups, with small cakes. 



-08 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 



No. 2 

Velvety soup, in cups. 

Minced veal kidneys on sauteed bread. 

Risotto. 

Backhaendl (fried chicken), with fried parsley. 

Salad of lettuce, string-beans, and beets, 

French dressing. 

Snow creme, with bouchees of cake. 



No. 3 

Raw-meat soup, in cups. 

Oyster patties. 

Sweetbreads stewed in sauce allemande. 

Chicken in jelly, with green salad, French dressing. 

Raspberry water ice, with sweet wafers. 



No. 4 

Chicken puree soup, in cups. 

Eggs on shells. 

Beefsteak with mushrooms in brown sauce. 

Mermgues filled with whipped cream. 



MENUS FOR DINNERS 

No. I 

Flour soup No. i., with asparagus tips. 

Boiled salmon, with sauce genoise, small potatoes, 

pickled gherkins (or cucumber salad). 

Ragoiit of sweetbreads in a ring of croutons. 

Cauliflower surrounded by green peas, boiled rice, 

and broiled lamb chops. 

Roast chickens stuffed with oysters, lettuce salad, 

French dressing. 

Russian creme, with macaroons. 

Neufchdtel cheese, crackers. 

Fruit. 

Coffee. 



LETTER xxrv 209 



No. 2 



Green pea soup, with dice of custard. 

Ringed pike, small potatoes with melted butter and parsley, 

mustard sauce. 

Macaroni a la Milanaise. 

Roast beef, small roasted potatoes, 

puree of spinach. 

Game birds, with green salad, French dressing. 

Raspberry foam, with sugar wafers. 

Edajn cheese, crackers. 

Fruit. 

Coffee. 



No. 3 

Julienne soup, with marrow balls. 

Panned oysters on shells. 

Chicken fricassee. 

Saddle of mutton, mashed potatoes with green herbs, 

chestnut puree, currant jelly. 

Cauliflower with boiled lobster, sauce ravigote. 

Salad of lettuce and water-cress, 

French dressing. 

Macedoine of fruit, with small sponge cakes. 

Frontage de Brie, crackers. 

Fruit. 

Coffee. 



No. 4 

Soup with moulded rice. 

Striped bass, stuffed and baked, potatoes, 

sauce hollandaise. 

Mixed ragoiit in pastry shell. 

Filet of beef a la jardiniere. 

Scalloped oysters, green salad, French dressing. 

Ice-cream, boiichees. 

Gorconzola, crackers. 

Fruit. 

Coffee. 



210 LETTERS TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER 

I leave it to your judgment to change or modify these menus 
in relation to the guests you are going to entertain. You will 
not have less than three and no more than nine at table  a 
number between that of the Graces and the Muses (according 
to the old saying), and they will be either intimate friends, or 
friends farther removed whom you w^ish to compliment. Your 
bill of fare will have to be regulated to suit these different cir- 
cumstances. 

And now I have, indeed, come to the end. 

For my farewell I present you with a motto full of wisdom 
to put over your kitchen mantel :  

" Es kommt alles auf die Bereitung an, 
Sagte Hans, und spickte eine Kroete." 

(It all depends on how it's done, 
Quoth Jack, a-larding of a toad.) 



INDEX 



Acid dissolves gelatine, 79. 
Albuminoids, in general, 9;  in daily 
rations, 9;  in Rumford Soup, 21 ; 

 in various soups, 22 ;  in various 
meats, 43 ;  in rice, 84 ;  in vege- 
tables, 106;  in different fish, 128; 

 in eggs, 164;  in cheese, 170; 

 in light desserts, 174. 
Almonds, salted, 205 ;  milk, 207, 
Ambrosia, 207. 

Anorganic substances, 9. 

Arine Rltter, 174. 

Asparagus, soup, 31 ;  shavings, dried, 
34; how to cook  , 113; difference 
in  , 113 ;  en petits pais, 113 ;  
combines well with, 113. 

Aspic, uses of, 79; recipe for  , 79; 

 in a plat de gout, 79. 

B 

Backhaendl. See Chicken. 

Baked rice, 87;  potatoes, 100;  
lobster, 145. 

Baking. See Cake. 

Balis, bread, 27; sponge  , 28; mar- 
row  , 28; forcemeat  , 28; cod- 
fish  , 140 ; fish  for lobster fricas- 
see, 145. 

Barley, nutritive value, 11 ;  soup No. 
I, 24 ;  soup No. 2, 25. 

Baronius, Cardinal, 2. 

Batter for frying, 78. 

Bavarian recipe for ham dumplings, 28 ; 

for potato noodles, 102 ; 

for potato balloons, 103. 

Bavaroise. See Crane. 



Beans, dried, nutritive value, 11 ; string 
 , nutritive value, 11 ; black or Mexi- 
can  soup, 33 ; dried  soup, 34 ; 
to cook string  , 109 ; to cook Lima 
 , 109. 

Bechamel, 72. 

Beef, roast, 44;  braised, 46; value 
of different cuts of  ,47; filet of  
a la jardiniere, 47; how to use rem- 
nants of  ,48;  en matelote, 48; 
loss in weight, 49 ; stufato a I'ita- 
lie?ine, with macaroni, 92. 

Beefsteak, how to broil, 44 ; to use rem- 
nants of  , 48. 

Beef-tea, nutritive value, 11. 

Beets, as a vegetable, 121 ; how to 
pickle  , 154. 

Beverages, fermented, nutritive value, 
II. 

Blackberry jam, 194;  jelly, 194. 

Bloaters. See Herring. 

Bluefish en matelote, 137. 

Boil, how to, meat, 14;  mutton, 56; 
 ham, 62;  tongue, 63;  rice, 
85;  macaroni, 89;  cauliflower, 
112;  fish, 130;  lobster, 143; 
loss of weight in boiling, 49. 

Bom be a la Sardati.xpale, 116. 

Bones, left over, 7 ;  waste material, 
49. 

Bauchees, 190, 

Bouille-abaisse, 136. 

Braise, how to, meat, 45 ;  beef, 46. 

Bread-box, the, 7 ; stale  added to 
soups, 19 ;  as accessories to soups, 
27 ;  balls, for soup, 27 ; wheat  , 
nutritive value, 11 ; 174;  for sand- 
wiches, 203. 

Breast of mutton. See Mutton. 



211 



OiO 



21 



INDEX 



Brillat - Savarin, 2; on soup, 20; on 
serving pheasant, 22; on the truffle, 
97; about salad, 147, 

Broil, how to, beefsteak, 44 ;  oysters, 
142. 

Broth without fuel, 15 ; amber-colored 
 , 18; imitation  No. i, 34; imi- 
tation  No. 2, 34; old recipes for 
 , 39 ; how to clear  for aspic, 80 ; 
potatoes in  , 104. 

Brussels sprouts, how to cook, 114. 

Butter, lobster, 146; nutritive value, 
174 ;  for cake, 182 ; to beat  to 
a cream, 183 ; mustard  , 202 ; an- 
chovy  , 202 ; sardine and herb  , 
202. 



Cabbage, nutritive value, 11; to boil 
 , 114; an economical dish, 114; 
 augratin, 114 ; Savoy  , with rice, 
114; stuffed  , 115; red  , 116; 
how to avoid the smell of  , 116; 
pickled  , 198. 

Cake, to keep, 182 ; rules for baking  , 
181; 182; German drop  , 184; Is- 
rael  , 185 ; Jenny Lind  , 185 ; 
lightning  , 185; sponge  , 186; 
sand  , 186 ; chocolate  , 186 ; Vi- 
enna  , 186; fillings for  , 187; 
icing and ornamenting  , 188 ; small 
  , i83, see also tarts ; Portuguese 
drop  , 189; sugar wafers, 189; 
macaroons, 189 ; filets de vent, 189 ; 
kisses, 189 ; meringues, 190 ; bou- 
chees, \()Ci. 

Calf s brain soup, 38 ;  head, 52 ;  
head, baked, 53 ;  head en tortue, 
54;  tongue, 54;  head-cheese, 
82. 

Candied fruit, 190;  orange peel, 191. 

Carbohydrates, in genera!, 9;  in 
daily rations, 9 ;  in Rumford Soup, 
21;  in various soups, 22;  in va- 
rious meats, 43 ;  in rice, 84 ;  in 
vegetables, 106 ;  in eggs, 164 ;  
in cheese, 170;  in light desserts, 
174. 



Cardinal punch, 206, 

Carrots, raw, left over, 8 ;  , nutritive 
value, II ;  soup, 31 ; how to cook 
 , 118. 

Cauliflower, nutritive value, 11;  
added to soup, 19 ; how to boil  , 
112; sauce for  , 112;  au gratin, 
112;  with lobster, 112. 

Celery, left over, 8 ; how to dry  
leaves for winter use, 42 ;  root as 
a vegetable, 120. 

Cellulose, in vegetables, 106 ;  in light 
desserts, 174. 

Cheese, nutritive value, 11;  crusts, 
with soup, 27 ; composition of  , 
170 ; a fondue, 170 ; toasted  , 171 ; 
ramequins, 171. 

Cherries, sour, put up air-tight, 193 ; 
blackhearts, air-tight, 193. 

Chestnut stuffing, 67 ; about  , 125 ;  
as a garnish, 125 ; puree of chestnuts, 
126. 

Chevrier, how he ate spinach, iii. 

Chicken, puree soup, 37 ;  loses in 
weight, 49 ; how to buy  , 63 ; how 
to cook young  , 64 ; stewed  
with rice, 64 ; fricassee of  , 65 ; 
young  fried in lard {Backhaendl), 
65 ; remnant of  as ragout, 69 ;  
in jelly, 81 ;  as pilaff, 86 ;  salad, 
162. 

Chocolate, nutritive values, 11;  
creme, 175 ; 178 ;  cake, 186 ;  
tarts, 188. 

Chops, mutton, see Mutton ; pork  , 
see Pork. 

Clams, nutritive value, 11; 142;  
chowder, 143. 

Claret sauce, 181. 

Cod, nutritive value, 11, 130;  , boiled 
and stewed, 132 ; various ways of pre- 
paring salt  , 139 ;  fish balls, 140. 

Coffee, nutritive value, 11 ;  creme, 

175- 

Convalescents. See Sickness. 

Cooking, a severe task, i ;  an art, 2 ; 
 not confined to women, 2; Lie- 
big's influence on  , 6; principles 



INDEX 



213 



of  meat demonstrated, 44; ra- 
gouts a valuable chapter of  , 73. 

Cooking-school, during reign of Louis 
XIV., 6. 

Corn, meal, nutritive value, 11 ;  
meal, 11 ,  soup, 32; green  , 
121 ;  fritters, 121 ; canned  , 122. 

Cornstarch, nutritive value, 11 ; 174. 

Court-Bouillon to boil fish in, 130, 

Cream, to make whipped, 177 ; whipped 
 and fruit, 177. 

Crime, coffee, in cups, 175 ; chocolate 
 , 175 ; snow  , 176 ; Russian  , 
177 ; chocolate  , or bavaroise, 178. 

Croquettes, how to make, 77 ; potato 
 , 102. 

Croutons, in soups, 27 ;  for r ago tits, 

73- 

Cucumbers as a vegetable, 119 ;  
salad, 156; sea-captain's pickled cu- 
cumbers, 197 ; tarragon gherkins, 
198. 

Currant jelly, 194. 

Custard for soup, 25 ;  in cups for 
dessert, 175 ;  pudding, 180. 

Cutlets, veal, 51. 



D 



Dairy, favor the, 12. 

Danish recipe for rodgrod, 176. 

Desserts, food value of light, 174; the 
most economical of  , 174 ;  in 
cups, custard, 175 ; coffee creme, 
175 ; chocolate ere me, 175 ; Mount 
Blanc, 176; raspberry foam, 176; 
rodgrod, 176 ; whipped cream with 
fruit, 177 ; Russian rice, 178 ; some 
ways to make a macedoine of fruit, 
179. See also Cremes, Puddings. 

Dressing, plain, " French," for salad, 
150; Sydney Smith's  for salad, 
152 ; two more  , 152 ; three recipes 
for mayonnaise  , 153 ; slight vari- 
ation of  , 154. 

Drumsticks, devilled, 66. 

Duck, loses in weight, 49 ;  a la Por- 
tugaise, 49 ; how to buy  , 63. 



Dumas' recipe for beef en matelote, 

48 ; for a breakfast dish of cold 

tongue, 63 ; for sauce tartare, 

74; two recipes for macaroni, 

92; for potatoes a la mattre 

d' hotel, 103 ; for macedoine of 

vegetables, 126 ;  salad, 162. 

Dumont, Abbe, 2. 

Dumplings, ham, 28. 



Eggs, nutritive value, 11; 164; to boil 
 , 164 ; test your eggs before using, 
165 ; poached  , 165 ; fried  , 165 ; 
panned  , 165;  on shells, 166; 
an omelet, 166 ; various omelets, 166 ; 
omelet with bacon, 167 ; various ac- 
cessories to omelets, 167 ; stirred  , 
167; Roman fritata, 168; pancakes, 
169 ; pancakes filled with meat, 169 ; 
farcied  , 170;  and cheese, 170; 
171 ; expensive dishes, 171 ; pancakes 
for dessert, 175 ; white of Q%g pud- 
ding, 180 ;  for cake, 183. 

Egg-plant, sauteed, 122;  au gratin, 
122. 

Emperor William I. of Germany Uked 
a dish of stewed turkey, 66. 

English recipe for rice-flour soup, 25 ; 
 soups too much spiced, 42. 



Farina, nutritive value, 11 ; 174 ;  soup, 

23- 

Fat, how to use, 7 ;  taken off soup- 
liquor, 16. 

Fats, in general, 9 ;  in daily rations, 
9 ;  in Rumford Soup, 21 ;  in vari- 
ous soups, 22 ;  in various meats, 
43 ;  in rice, 84 ;  in vegetables, 
ic6 ;  in different fish, 128 ;  in 
eggs, 164 ;  in cheese, 170 ;  in 
light desserts, 174. 

Filet of beef, 47 ;  of pork, 60 ;  of 
flounder, 134. 

Filets de vent, 189. 



214 



INDEX 



Filling, nut, for cake, 187; orange, 

187. 

Fire, importance of, 4;  for baking 
cake, 183. 

Fish, nutritive value, 11; food value 
of  , 128; nutritive value of differ- 
ent kinds of  , 128; 129; how to 
cook  , 129 ; to boil  , 130 ; Court- 
Bouillon to boil  in, 130; to broil 
 , 134;  steak, 135; five recipes 
for using remnants of  , 135; 136; 
BoudU-abaisse, 136 ;  in jelly, 138 ; 
 balls for lobster fricassee, 145 ;  
salad, 159. 

Flounder, filet of, a la Joinville, 

134- 
Flour, unbolted, nutritive value, 11; 

 , wheat, 11; 174;  soup No. i, 

23 ;  soup No. 2, 24 ;  for cake, 

182. 

Food, how to prepare, 8 ;  , two classes 
of, 8 ;  , chemistry of, 9 ;  , daily 
rations of, 9 ;  , nutritive values of 
different, 11;  , necessary amount 
according to Voit, 11 ;  , variety very 
important, 12;  value of soups, 22; 
salt contained in  , 40; waste ma- 
terial in  , 49. 

Forcemeat balls, 28. 

Forms for baking cake, 184. 

Fran9oise's, Mile., recipe for raw meat 

soup, 37 ; for braised beef, 

46; gives a recipe of Rossini, 

91 ; for 77iacedoine of fruit, 

179. 

French excel in salad dressing, 149. 

French recipe for soup, 24 ; two 

for matelotes offish, 137; 138. 

Fricassee of chicken. See Chicken. 

Fritata. See Eggs. 

Frogs' legs, three recipes, 146. 

Fruit, nutritive value, 11, 174; whipped 
cream with  , 177 ; macedoine of  , 
179 ;  sauce, 181 ; to candy  , 190 ; 

 preserves, see 192. 

Fry, difference between  and saute, 
76 ; how to  , 'jj ; batter for  , 78 ; 

 oysters, 142. 



Game, ptiree soup, 38. 

Gelatine, in general, 78 ; nutritive qual- 
ity of  , 79; dissolved by acids, 79; 
substances yielding  , 79; in what 
proportions to use  , 178. 

Georgia recipe for gumbo soup, 33. 

German recipe for rice-fiour soup, 25 ; 

for Lenten soup, 34; South  

recipe for sauce gejioise with salmon, 
133 ; South  way of preparing cod- 
fish, 139 ; for frogs' legs, 146 ; 

for Arme R liter, 174 ;  drop 

cakes, 184. 

Golden dice in soups, 27. 

Gouffe, 75. 

Greek cooks, ancient, 4. 

Gumbo soup, 33. 

H 

Haddock, boiled and stewed, 132. 

Ham dumplings, 28 ;  loses in weight, 
49 ;  , general remarks, 61 ; sauce 
for cold  , 61 ; how to use boiled 
 , 62 ; boiled  , 62 ; roast  , 62. 

Head-cheese. See Calf. 

Herbs, how to preserve, 42;  for 
salads, 148, 149 ; dressing of  salad, 

151- 
Herring, nutritive value, 11; 130; 

broiled bloaters, 135. 
Horseradish sauce. See Sauce. 

I 

Invalids. See Sickness. 

Israel cake, 185. 

Italian soup, 32;  recipe for maca- 
roni, 89 ; another  macaroni dish, 
93;  enthusiast on macaroni, 94; 
 salad, 158. 



Jenny Lind cake, 185. 
Julienne soup, 30. 



I^T)EX 



215 



K 

Kale, nutritive value, ii. 

Kidneys, veal, 50 ;  , mutton, 58. 

Kisses, 189. 

Klencke, Dr. Hermann, gives a recipe 

for a dish containing an entire meal, 

105. 
Kohlrabi, to cook, 109, 



Lamartine, 2. 

Lamb loses in weight, 49; spring  , 

56. 
La Reyni^re's descriptive name for 
calf, 50 ;  descriptive name for pig, 
59 ;  on macaroni, 88 ;  recipe for 
stuffed tomatoes, 124 ;  on salmon, 

133- 
Larochefoucauld, Duke of, pupil in 

cooking-school, 6. 
Leeks, nutritive value, 11. 
Leg of mutton. See Mutton. 
Lemon peel, how to preserve for use, 

42 ;  pudding, 180. 
Lentils, nutritive value, 11;  soup, 

34- 

Lettuce, nutritive value, ir. See Chap- 
ter on Salads, 

Liebig's influence on cooking, 6 ;  
recipe for making broth with his 
extract, 18. 

Lightning cake, 185. 

Lobster, cauliflower with, 112 ; how to 
boil a  , 143 ;  cutlets, 144 ;  
stew, 144 ;  fricassee, 144 ; baked 
 145 ; creamed  , 145 ;  sauce, 
146 ;  butter, 146 ;  salad, 160. 

Loin of mutton, see Mutton ; tender  
of pork, 60 ; fore  of pork, 60. 

M 

Macaroni, nutritive value, 11; general 
remarks, 88 ; how to boil  , 89 ; 
Italian recipe for  ,89;  al siigo, 
90;  with tomato, 90; praises of 



 ,91; sttifato a VitalUnne, with  , 
91, 92;  a la menagere, 92;  au 
gratin, 92;  , another dish, 93;  
pie, 94 ; baked  , 94. 

Macaroons, 189. 

Macedoine of vegetables, 126;  of 
fruit, 179. 

Mackerel, broiled, 134. 

Maintenon, Madame de, writes of peas, 
108. 

Marketing, buy the best material, 8. 

Marrow balls, 28. 

Mazarin, Cardinal, 2. 

Meat, how to buy, 3 ; relative value of 
different pieces, 3 ; the best, cheap- 
est, 3 ; how long  should be hung, 
4; fat  , nutritive value, 11; lean 
 , nutritive value, 11; we eat too 
much  , 12; Dr. Wiel's recipe for 
good soup and  , 16 ; Liebig's ex- 
tract of  in soup, 17 ; soups of 
chopped  , 36 ; 37 ; 38 ; relative 
value of different kinds of  , 43 ; 
principle involved in preparing  , 
43 ; precautions in handling  , 45 ; 
stewed or braised  , 45 ; 46 ; time 
for roasting  , 46 ;  jelly, see As- 
pic ; two recipes of Dr. Wiel for 

 jelly for invalids, 82 ; 83 ; dish of 
vegetables and  , 108 ;  salads, 
162. 

Men cooks, 2. 

Menus for luncheons, 207, 208 ;  for 
dinners, 208, 209. 

Meringues, 189. 

Mery on bouille-abaisse, 136. 

Mexican beans. See Beans. 

Milk, nutritive value, 11 ; 174. 

Mineral matters, in food, 9 ;  in vari- 
ous meats, 43 ;  in vegetables, 106 ; 

 in spinach, no;  in fish, 128; 

 in eggs, 164 ;  in cheese, 170 ;  
in light desserts, 174. 

Monselet, recipe for duck a la Portu- 
gaise, 49 ;  on salad, 149 ; quotes 
Mery's poem on bouille-abaisse, 136. 

Motto for kitchen, 210. 

Mount Blanc dessert, 176. 



216 



INDEX 



Mushrooms, nutritive value, ii; gen- 
eral remarks, 95 ; description of 
champignon, or edible  , 96 ; how 
to cook  , 96; how to prepare  , 
96; what to do with scrapings, 97. 
Mustard sauce, 132;  butter, 202, 
Mutton loses in weight, 49 ; general 
remarks, 55 ; boiled  , 56 ; roast  , 
56 ; shoulder of  , 57 ; breast of  , 
^7\  chops, 57;  kidneys, 58; 
 as pilaff, 85 ; a dish which is a 
meal in itself, 105. 



N 



New England recipe for boiled cod- 
fish, 139 ; for codfish balls, 

140. 

Nut filling for cake, 187. 



O 

Okra, 32. 

Omelet soup, 24 ;  , for recipes, see 
Eggs. 

Onions, nutritive value, 11 ;  , stewed, 
124; puree of  , 125;  as a gar- 
nish for a roast, 125. 

Orange, peel, how to preserve for use, 
42;  filling for cake, 187; to candy 

 peel, 191. 
Oriental pilaff, 85. 

Oysters, nutritive value, 11 ;  stuffing 
67 ; general remarks, 140 ; roast  , 
140 ; panned  , 141 ; scalloped  
141 ;  stew, 141 ; fried  , 142 
broiled  , 142;  fricassee, 142 

 sauce, 142; pickled  , 201. 
Oyster plant. See Salsify. 



Pancakes, 169; 175. 

Panned oysters, 141. 

Parsley, left over, 8 ;  added to soup, 
19; how to preserve  for winter 
use, 42 ; fried  , 66 ;  sauce, 133. 



Parsnips, nutritive value, 11; how to 
cook  , 120, 

Peaches, in halves, 195 ;  marma- 
lade, 105 ; brandy  , 196. 

Peas, dried, nutritive value, 11;  , 
green, nutritive value, 11 ; green  
soup, 32 ; dried  soup, 34 ;  
pod soup, 36 ; to cook green  , 107 ; 
historical, 108. 

Perch, matelote of, 138. 

Pickled cucumbers, 197;  cabbage, 
198 ;  oysters, 201. 

Pie, macaroni, 94;  indigestible and 
wasteful, 173. 

Pigeons, how to buy, 63; how to cook 
 , 67 ;  with rice, 67 ; stuffing for 

 68. 

Pike, nutritive value, 130;  , stewed, 

131 ;  , ringed, 132. 
Pilaff. See Rice. 
Plat de gout. See Aspic. 
Plato's opinion, 2. 
Poor family, to feed, 21. 
Pork, salt, nutritive value, 11; general 

remarks, 59 ; roast  , 59 ; filet of 

 , 60 ; foreloin of  , 60 ;  chops, 

61. 
Portuguese, salad, 158 ;  drop cakes, 

189. 
Potage veloute. See Velvety Soup, 24 ; 

 mix voyageurs, 26. 

Potatoes, nutritive value, 11 ;  , sweet, 
11; 121;  soup, 35 ; general re- 
marks, 99; how to boil  , 99; to 
steam  , 100 ; to bake  , 100 ; some 
kinds of mashed  , loi ; mashed  
au gratin, loi ; other  dishes, loi ; 
roast  , loi ;  pudding with cheese, 
102;  croquettes, 102;  noodles, 
102;  balloons, 103; remnants of 
 , 103 ;  a la maltre d 'hotel, 103 ; 

 stewed in milk, 104;  in broth, 
104 ; a dish which contains a whole 
meal, 105;  salads, 157; 158. 

Poultry, in general and how to buy, 63 ; 

remnants of  , 66 ; stuffings for  , 

67. 
Preserving, rules for, 192. 



INDEX 



217 



Pudding, spinach, iii ;  , English, in- 
digestible, 173; apple  , 180; white 
of egg  , 180; custard  , 180; lemon 
 , 180; rice  , 181. 

Pulse, See Beans, Peas, and Lentils. 

Pumpkin, spiced, 199. 

Punch, tea, 205 ; cardinal  ,206; snow 
 , 206 ; ambrosia  , 206. 

Puree, 36; chicken  soup, 37; game 
 soup, 38;  of spinach, no;  
of onions, 124;  of chestnuts, 126. 



Quinces, preserved, 196; 197. 

R 

Ragoilt, the principle demonstrated, 69 ; 

difference between salpicon and  , 

70 ; brown  sauce, 71 ; mixed  

in pastry shell, 72. 
Raspberry, foam, 176 ;  jam, 194 ;  

sirup, 194 ;  jelly, 194. 
Red cabbage. See Cabbage. 
Remnants, how to use economically, 7 ; 

 of vegetables in soups, 27 ;  of 
roast beef and beefsteak, 48 ;  of 
boiled ham, 62;  of tongue for 
breakfast, 63 ;  of poultry, 66 ;  
as ragoCds, 69 ;  fried in batter, 78 ; 

 of macaroni, 94;  of potato, 
103 ;  of spinach as spinach pud- 
ding, in;  of tomatoes, 124;  
of sahuon, 135 ;  offish, 135; 136; 
138 ;  of oysters, 142 ;  in salads, 
see Salads. 

Rice, nutritive value, 11 ; 174 ;  flour 
soup, 25 ; soup with moulded  , 25 ; 
stewed chicken with  , 64; pigeons 
with  ,67; a  ring, 73; general 
remarks, 84 ; how to boil  , 85 ; Ori- 
ental pilaflf, 85; Turkish pilaff, 86; 
risotto, 87 ; baked  , 87 ; Russian 
 , 178 ;  pudding, 181. 

Richelieu, Cardinal, 2. 

Risi-pisi, 32. 

Risotto. See Rice. 



Roast, how to, beef, 44 ; loss of weight 
in  ,49;  mutton, 56;  pork, 
59 ;  tenderloin of pork, 60 ;  
ham, 62 ;  potatoes, loi ;  oys- 
ters, 140. 

Rodgrod, 176. 

Rossini's praises of macaroni, 91 ; stu- 
fato a I' italienne, 91. 

Roulade of veal, 54 ; instead of boned 
turkey, 55. 

Rousseau, expert in cooking eggs, 2. 

Rumford, invented a soup, 2; recipe 
for it, 21. 



Sable, Madame de, establishes a cook- 
ing-school, 6. 

Saddle of mutton. See Mutton. 

Sago, nutritive value, 11. 

Salad, general remarks, 147 ; opium 
in  , 148 ; herbs for  , 148 ; 149 ; 
how to make a plain lettuce  , 150; 
dressing of herb  , 151 ; combina- 
tions of  , 154 ; 155 ; cabbage  , 
155 ; vegetables for  , 155 ; excel- 
lent combination  , 156; cucumber 
 , 156 ; potato  , 157 ; 158 ; Portu- 
guese  , 158 ; Italian  , 158 ; an 
appetizer, 158; real sardine  ,159; 
Venetian fish  , 159; salmon  , 
160 ; lobster  , 160 ; two vegetable 
 , 161; Dumas  , 162; chicken  , 
162; other kinds of meat  , 162; 
tomato  , 163. 

Salmon, nutritive value, 11; 130; boiled 
 , 133; two sauces for  , 133;  
left over, 133 ;  salad, 160. 

Salpicon royal, 70 ;  a la Condi, 70. 

Salsify, how to cook, 119;  a la pou- 
lette, 119;  fritters, 119. 

Salt is contained in most foods, 40; 
adulteration of  , 40 ; how to  , 41 ; 
 assists digestion, 41 ;  raises 
boiling-point of water, 41 ;  in his- 
tory, 41. 

Sand cake, 186. 

Sandwiches, 202 ; 203 ; 204. 



218 



INDEX 



Sardines, nutritive value, ii ; 130 ; real 

 salad, 159 ;  butter, 202. 
Sauce, Cumberland, 60;  for cold 

ham, see Ham; horseradish  , 61; 
how  is made, 70; stock for  , 
71 ; brown ragoiit  , 71 ; plain 
bt'chatnel  , 72 ;  allemafide, 72 ; 

 maitre d' hotel, 74 ;  tartare, 74 ; 
herb  , 74 ;  for spinach pudding, 
III;  for cauliflower, 112;  hol- 
landaise, for fish, 131; mustard  , 
132 ; parsley, 133 ;  genolse, 133 ; 

 remoulade, 134 ; oyster  , 142 ; 
lobster  , 146 ; mayonnaise  , see 
Dressing ; wine  , 181 ; fruit  , 181 ; 
claret  , i8r. 

Sausage stuffing, 67. 

Savoy cabbage. See Cabbage. 

Scalloped oysters, 141. 

Shoulder of mutton. See Mutton. 

Sickness, old fowl for broth, 63 ; two 
recipes for meat-jelly, 82 ; 83 ; frogs' 
legs, 146. 

Snow punch, 206. 

Sorrel with spinach as a vegetable, 
III. 

Soup, how to make broth for, 14; 
recipe for ordinary  liquor, 16 ; 
Dr. Wiel's recipe for  , 16 ;  made 
of Liebig's extract, 18 ; adding egg 
to  , 18 ; remnants added to  , 
19 ; Rumford  , 21 ; recipe for fa- 
rina  , 23; for flour  No. i, 23; 
for flour  No. 2, 24 ; velvety  , 24 ; 
omelet  ,24; barley  No. i, 24; 
barley  No. 2, 25 ; rice-flour  , 25 ; 
custard for  , 25 ;  with moulded 
rice, 25 ; travellers'  , 26 ; accesso- 
ries to  , 27 ; vegetable  , 30 ; Ju- 
lienne  ,30; Easter  , 31; carrot 
 , 31 ; asparagus  , 31 ; green pea 
 , 32; Italian  , 32; corn  , 32; 
okra  , 32 ; tomato  , 32 ; gumbo 
 , 33 ; black bean  , 33 ;  made 
of pulse, 33 ; 34 ; water  , 34 ; po- 
tato  , 35; green  , 35 ; pea-pod  , 
36 ;  of chopped meat, 36 ; 37 ; 38 ; 
raw meat  , 37 ; chicken puree  , 



37 ; game puree  , 38 ; sweetbread 

 , 38 ; calf s brain  , 38. 
Spaghetti. See Macaroni. 
Spice, use sparingly, 41; too much  

hurtful, 42 ; buy  whole, 42 ; how 

to keep  , 42. 
Spiced pumpkins, 190. 
Spinach, nutritive value, 11 ;  or 

green soup, 35 ; about  , no ; puree 

of  , no;  as an entremets, no; 

 pudding, in ;  warmed up, in ; 

 and sorrel, in. 

Sponge, balls, for soup, 28 ;  cake, 186. 

Squash, to cook, 122. 

Stewed, mutton, see Braised ;  tur- 
key, 66; potatoes  in milk, 104. 

Striped bass, stuffed and baked, 130. 

Stufato a r italienjje. See Macaroni. 

Stuffings, for poultry, 67 ;  for pigeons, 
68. 

Sugar, nutritive value, n; 174;  for 
cake, 182. 

Sweetbread, soup, 38 ;  , 52. 

Swiss recipe, potatoes with cheese, 103 ; 
, stewed pike, 131. 

Sydney Smith's recipe for salad dress- 
ing, 152. 



Tarragon, gherkins, 198;  vinegar, 

199. 
Tarts, 188 ; chocolate  , 1S8. 
Tea, nutritive value, n ;  punch, 205. 
Thackeray, poem on bouille-abaisse, 

136. 
Thompson, Benjamin. See Rumford. 
Tomato, soup, 32 ; macaroni with  , 

90;  belongs to nightshades, 123; 

stewed  , 123 ; baked  , 123 ; fried 

 , 123 ; stuffed  , 124 ;  left over, 

124 ;  salad, 163 ;  catsup, 199. 
Tongue, how to boil, 63 ; breakfast dish 

of cold  , 63. 
Truffles, 97. 
Turkey, loses in weight, 49 ; roulade of 

veal instead of  , 55 ; how to buy  , 

63 ; stewed :  , 66. 
Turkish pilaff, 86. 



INDEX 



219 



Turnips, nutritive value, ii; how to 
cook  , ii8. 



Veal, general remarks, 50;  kidneys, 
50;  cutlets, 51;  a la parvien- 
tiere, 51; miroton of  ,52; roulade 

of . 54- 

Vegetables, value in nutrition, 98; nu- 
tritive value of  , 106 ; dish of  
and meat, 108 ; dish of mixed roots, 
120; viaccdoine of  , 126;  in 
salads, see Salads. 

Venetian fish salad, 159. 

Vermicelli, nutritive value, 11 ;  soup, 
26. 

Vienna Schnitzel. See Veal Cutlet.  
cake. 186. 



Voit, C, sets down daily rations, 11. 
V^ol au vent. See Ragoilt, 

W 

Water, as refuse matter, 11;  soups, 
34 ; salt raises the boiling-point of  , 
41 ;  waste material, 49 ; large per- 
centage of  in potatoes, 99 ; in veg- 
etables, 106; in different fish, 128; 
in eggs, 164 ; in cheese, 170 ; in light 
desserts, 174. 

Wiel, Dr., how to buy meat, 3 ; recipe 
for better meat and good soup, 16; 
two recipes for meat-jelly, 82 ; 83 ; 
recommends frogs' legs, 146; about 
eggs, 164. 

Wine sauce, i8i. 



Typography by J. S. Gushing & Co., Boston, U.S.A. 
Presswork by Berwick & Smith, Boston, U.S.A. 



Mmmt 

3 9999 05987 (^o 



\ 



Boston Public Library 
Central Library, Copley Square 

Division of 
Reference and Research Services 



The Date Due Card in the pocket indi- 
cates the date on or before which this 
book should be returned to the Library. 

Please do not remove cards from this 
pocket. 



; 






rO 






^ 



HMtthO 



D FEBli^ 



S.MAR 5 



K 



S. MAR 16 
C APR 9 



13 



-h 



-^ ^ 



X 



s^ 



