


LIBRARY OF CONGRESS. 

.„..rS0pjri5¥l^* 



'■'---■^^ 



UNITED STATES OF AMERICA. 






^^ 



£*» ij"i 




^m.i4^: 






,^'< 



iVi^'-. » 



.^: 




THE 

YOUNG COOK'S GUIDE 



A TEXT-BOOK ON COOKERY. 



PREPARED FOR 



The Young '^mm 

Christian AssocpoN 

OF BROOKLYN, 
MISS A. C. CRUIKSHANK. 




BROOKLYN, N.y. MftOll^-^ 

PRESS OF COLLINS & DAY, I38 LIVINGSTON STREET. 1 V ' 

1893. 






^i^^ 



5^ 



Copyright 1893, 
By Miss A. C. Cruikshank, Brooklj-n, N. Y. 



To MY Mother, 

MY FIRST TEACHER IN CULINARY ART, 

THIS BOOK IS AFFECTIONATELY 

DEDICATED. 



The question of what we shall eat is one that de- 
serves our earnest study and thought. The bounti- 
ful Giver of all good has, in this our native land, 
placed at our hand the greatest variety of wholesome 
foods from which to choose. He who makes the 
wisest choice will reap a reward in health, and ability 

to enjoy. 

Dr. Allen. 



CONTENTS. 

Introduction, page 

Course A., . • 13 

" B., 15 

" C, 17 

Mottoes for Course'A. , ...'... 19 

" " B 21 

'• «' C, . 23 

How to use this book, ........ 25 

Abbreviations, ......... 26 

Table of measures and weights, ...... 26 

Time table for cooking, ........ 27 

Fire, 29 

Making and care of a fire, ....... 30 

Food, 32 

Digestion, . . • 36 

Cooking, .......... 42 

Boiling, 42 

Simmering, ......... 44 

Steaming, .......... 44 

Roasting, .......... 45 

Broiling, ....',.... 46 

Braising, .......... 48 

Frying, 48 

Sauteing, .......... 50 

Larding, . . . . . . . . . .51 

Stirring, Beating, Folding, ...... 51 

Bread crumbing, . . . . . . • . .52 

Boning, 53 

Care of food, ......... 56 

Setting the table, 58 



CONTENTS. 

PAGE 

Waiting on table, . . . . . . . . 59 

Clearing the table, ...-.-., 60 

Washing dishes, ......... 60 

Recipes, ......... 64 

Soups, .......... 64 

Fish, 76 

Meat, 90 

Poultry and game, ........ 106 

Meat and fish sauces, ........ 113 

Sweetbreads, . . . . . . . . iiS 

Vegetables, ......... 120 

Grains, 133 

Griddle cakes and waffles, . . . . . . 136 

Bread, .......... 138 

Rolls, . 143 

Biscuits, gems and muffins, ....... 146 

Eggs, 153 

Salads, .......... 160 

Sandwiches, ......'.. 166 

Croquettes, ......... 168 

Fritters, ......... 173 

Puddings and desserts, . . . . . . .175 

Jellies, ......... igo 

Pudding sauces. . . . . . . . .192 

Cake, ......... 195 

Pastry and pies, ........ 205 

Ice creams and sherbets, . • . . . . 210 

Fruit, 218 

Beverages, ......... 223 

Sundries, .......... 226 

Odds and ends, ........ 236 

Invalid cooking, ....... 247 



INTRODUCTION. 

^UR best literature abounds in culinary allusions; 
as Shakepeare's '' Epicurean cooks sharpen 
with cloyless sauce his appetite," so Burns' poem 
on that great Scotch dish — a haggis, '' Great Chief- 
tan of a Pudding Race," serve as examples. 

Among the poets, Shelley was indifferent to* his 
food, and read while he ate. Byron starved himself 
for fear of obesity, while many another author has 
starved from necessity. But that most of our lit- 
erary friends shine best at table is proved, were 
proof needed, by the charming accounts of Roger's 
Breakfasts and Lady Blessington's Dinners. The 
famous *' Kit Kat Club " gave its name to some 
scarcely less famous mutton pies. 

While it is possible " to cultivate Literature on a 
little oat-meal," for there are proteids in the sug- 
gestion, w^hat lover of good things does not envy 
the old London authors those delightful repasts at 
the quaint taverns Leigh Hunt writes of in " The 

own. 

Boswell and Mrs. Thrale so carefully noted Dr. 
Johnson's eating, while seated admiringly in his 
company, one wonders if they had time for their 
own meals. 



Perhaps like a certain old lady of our acquaint- 
ance they dined surreptitiously, appearing with del- 
icate lack of appetite at table and creating much 
sympathy until betrayed by a gormandizing shadow 
on the pantry door, just before dinner time. 

Often the only history of a people is preserved in 
the cooking utensils of their domestic life. 

How eagerly collectors seek for Indian pottery or 
search the buried cities for traces of an earlier civ- 
ilization, while every household utensil which pre- 
serves for us the customs of our ancestors is of value 
as illustrating the history of Colonial times. 

A modern knowledge of the chemistry of food 
would prohibit the use of some of these quaint uten- 
sils but one may well lament the going out of the 
Dutch oven and basting spit of earlier days. 

Carlyle's immortal dyspepsia may follow Em- 
erson's immortal pie, but Sidney Smith's salad 
" 'Twould tempt the dying anchorite to eat." 

Kept in countenance by such worthy examples, 
it is well for us to prepare for a banquet together. 
Gathered about a daintily spread board andjserved 
with dishes to be evolved out of the recipes and in- 
structions to follow in these pages, one may with 
propriety " confess to a partiality for pate and a 

tenderness for truffles." 

^*B." 



In preparing this volume it has not been with any 
desire to add to the number of valuable books on 
the subject, but merely to have in convenient form, 
the material needed in the class work, of the Cook- 
ing Department, of the Young Women's Christian 
Association of Brooklyn. Should it prove helpful 
to any outside of our work it will more than fulfill 

its mission. 

The Author. 



COURSE OF INSTRUCTION 

AT THE 

Young 1a[omen's (hristian T^sociation. 

BROOKLYN. 



FIRST COURSE— COURSE A. 

PRINCIPLES OF COOKING. 



Lesson I.— A Quick Breakfast. 

Making and care of the fire. Measuring. Coffee. 
Oatmeal. Toast. Scrambled Eggs. 

Lesson II.— Boiling. 

Boiled Mutton. Gravy. Boiled Potatoes. Mash- 
ed Potatoes. Apple Sauce. Bread Pudding. 

Lesson III.— Simmering. 

Soup Stock. Vegetable Soup. Croutons. Bread 
Crumbs. Minced Meat on Toast. Cottage Pie. 
Stewed Prunes. 

Lesson IV.— Steaming. 

Beef Stew. Dumplings. Steamed Rice. Apple 
Snow Balls. Lemon Sauce. 
2 13 



14 THE YOUNG COOK S GUIDE. 

Lesson V.— Roasting. 

Roast Beef. Gravy. Franconia Potatoes. White 
Sauce. Creamed Cabbage. Scalloped Apple. 

Lesson VI.— Broiling, 

Beef Steak. Pan Broiled Chops. Potato Soup. 
Cottage Pudding. Lemon Sauce. 

Lesson VII.— Frying. 



Fried Potatoes. Split Pea Soup. Griddle Cakes. 
Lesson VIII.— Bread. 



Doughnuts. 



Bread. 

Lesson IX.— Invalid Tray. 

Soft Boiled Egg. Dropped Egg. Beef Tea. 
Gruel. Milk Toast. Egg Nog. Tea. Bird's Nest. 
Baked Apples. Lemon Jelly. 

Lesson X.— Stirring. Beating. Folding. 

Omelet. Soft Molasses Cookies. Chocolate Lay- 
er Cake. Boiled Icing. 



SECOND COURSE— COURSE B. 

PRI^XIPLES ELABORATED. 



Lesson I. 

Baked Fish. Hollandaise Sauce. Fruit Meringue. 



Lesson 11. 

Chicken Fricassee. Cranberries. Creamed Pota- 
toes. Molasses Fruit Cake. 

Lesson III. 

Fancy Rolls. Creamed Salt Fish. Apples for 
Luncheon. 

Lesson IV. 

Oyster Soup. Creamed Oysters. Baked Crack- 
ers. Crackers and Cheese. Little Pigs in Blanquets. 
Floating Island. 

Lesson V. 

Ham Omelet. Lyonnaise Potatoes. Ginger Suet 
Pudding. Fruit Suet Pudding. Foamy Sauce. 

Lesson VI. 



Roast Chicken. Giblet Gravy. Potato Salad. 

iC 
15 



French Dressing. Lunch Cake. 



l6 THE YOUNG COOK'S GUIDE. 

Lesson VII. 

Fried Codfish. Tartar Sauce. Sponge Cake. 
Philadelphia Ice Cream. 

Lesson VIII.— A Luncheon. 

Mock Bisque Soup. Fish Gratin. Meat Balls. 
Escaloped Sweet Potatoes. Lettuce Salad. Frozen 
Apricots. Chocolate. 

Lesson IX. 

Fried Oysters. Broiled Oysters. Apple Pie. 
Pastry. 

Lesson X. 

Chicken Salad. Mayonnaise. Sandwiches. Snow 
Pudding. Soft Custard. 



THIRD COURSE— COURSE C 

FANCY COOKING. 



Lesson I. 

Bisque of Lobster. Codfish Croquettes. Orange 
Charlotte. 

Lesson 1 1. 

Puree of Salmon. Blanquette of Salmon. Potato 
Border. Coffee Ice Cream. 

Lesson 111. . 

Turbans of Flounder. Romoulade Sauce. Spin- 
ach a la Creme. Waffles. Lemon Syrup. 

Lesson IV. 

' Dresden Patty Cases. Creamed Ham. Apple 
Fritters. Foamy Sauce. 

Lesson V. 

Veal Cutlet a la Provencale. Spaghetti. Tomato 
Sauce. Orange Layer Cake, Ornamental Frosting. 

Lesson VI. 

Fancy Omelets. Lady Cake. Bavarian Cream. 

Lesson Vll. 

Potato Croquettes. Stuffed Eggs. Cafe Parfait. 
Chantilly Baskets. 

17 



l8 THE YOUNG COOK'S GUIDE. 

Lesson VIII.— A Dinner. 

Consomme. Lobster Cutlets. Chicken Croquettes. 
Hamburgh Steak. Maitre d'Hotel Butter. Cream- 
ed Potato Balls. Scalloped Turnips. Egg Salad. 
Orange Sherbet. Cafe Noir. 

Lesson IX. 

Mutton Rechauffe. Fruit Baskets. Lemon Mer- 
ingue Tarts. 

Lesson X. 

Larded Sweetbreads. Omelet Souffle. Ice 
Cream. 



These courses may be changed as the needs of 
the classes require. 



MOTTOES 

COURSE A. 



Lesson 1 . 

Let all things be done decently and in order. 

—Bible, 

Lesson II. 

Do unto others as you would that they should do 
unto you. — Golden Rnle. 

Lesson III. 

A soup fast boiled is a soup half spoiled. — Rtiskin. 

Lesson IV. 

A little thing, a sunny smile, 

A loving word at morn, 
And all day long the sun shone bright, 
The cares of life were made more light, 

And brighter hopes were born. — C, L. HilL 

Lesson V. 

Whatever thy hand findeth to do, do it with thy 
might. 

Lesson VI. 

He doth much that doth a thing well. 

— Thomas a Kempis. 

19 



20 THE YOUNG COOK'S GUIDE. 

Lesson VII. 

A recipe for to-day : 

" Take a dash of water cold 

And a little leaven of prayer, 
And a little bit of sunshine gold 

Dissolved in the morning air ; 
Add to your meal some merriment, 

And a thought for kith and kin. 
And then as your prime ingredient, 

A plenty of work thrown in." 

Lesson VIII. 

A little leaven leaveneth the whole lump. — Bible. 

Lesson IX. 

A merry heart doeth good like a medicine. — Bible, 

Lesson X. 

*' Success is doing your best every day." 



MOTTOES. 21 



COURSE B. 



Lesson I. 

There is always a best way of doing every thing, 
if it be to boil an egg. — Emerson. 

Lesson II. 

What men want is not talent, it is purpose ; in 
other words, not the power to achieve, but the will 
to work. — Bulwer-Lytton. 

Lesson III. 

*' Little by little all tasks are done. 
So are the crowns of the faithful won. 
So is heaven in our heart begun." 

Lesson IV. 

Over and over again 

The brook through the meadow flows, 
And over and over again 

The ponderous mill-wheel goes. 
Once doing will not sufifice, 

Though doing be not in vain. 
And a blessing failing us once or twice 

May come if we try again. 

Lesson V. 

So here hath been dawning another blue day ; 
Think, wilt thou let it slip useless away ? 
Out of eternity this new day is born ; 
Into eternity at night will return. — Carlyle. 



22 THE YOUNG COOK S GUIDE. 

Lesson VI. 

*' Plant blessings, blessings will bloom ; 

Plant hate and hate will grow ; 
You can sow to-day, to-morrow will bring 
The blossom that proves what sort of thing 

Is the seed, the seed that you sow." 

Lesson VII. 



Only live your life and your duty do, 

Ifae 
— Luella Clark, 



And be brave and strong and steadfast and true. 



Lesson VI I i. 

'' For the common deeds of the common day, 
Are ringing bells in the far away." 

Lesson IX. 

Art little ? Do thy little well, and for thy comfort 

know, 
Great men can do their greatest work, no better 

than just so. — Goethe. 

Lesson X. 

*' Not enjoyment, and not sorrow, 

Is our destined end or way ; 
But to act that each to-morrow 

Find us farther than to-day. 
Build to-day then strong and sure, 

With a firm and ample base. 
And ascending and secure 

Shall to-morrow find its place." 



MOTTOES. 23 



COURSE C. 

Lesson I. 

Each day is a fresh beginning, 
Every morn is the world made new. 

— Stcsan Coolidge. 

Lesson N. 

Go make thy garden as fair as thou canst, 

Thou workest never alone ; 
Perchance he whose plot is next to thine 

Will see it, and mind his own. 

— Robert Collyer. 

Lesson IIL 

Let us be content, in work. 

To do the thing we can, and not presume 

To fret because it's little. — E. B. Browning. 

Lesson IV. 

" Be more cheerful, do not worry, 

There is time enough to do 
Every day the daily duties 

That your father sendeth you, 
And to find some little moments 

For heart music fresh and new." 

Lesson V. 

'' What are you doing from day to day 
As the precious moments slip away ? 
Oh, use them for some good endeavor, 
For moments gone are gone forever. 
Like pearls that slip from a broken clasp. 
Life's moments slip from our careless grasp." 



24 THE YOUNG COOK'S GUIDE. 

Lesson VI. 

Like the star. 

That shines afar, 

Without haste 

And without rest, 
Let each man wheel with steady sway. 
Round the task that rules the day, 

And do his best. — Goethe. 

Lesson VI L 

True worth is in being, not seeming, 
In doing each day that goes by, 

Some little good — not in dreaming. 
Of great things to do by-and-by. 

— Alice Cary. 

Lesson Vlll. 

Be faithful and active and earnest ; 
In idleness never sit down : 
The better the dark cross you carry. 
The brighter will sparkle your crown. 

• — Wm. Jolinson. 

Lesson IX. 

** Rest is not quitting the busy career. 
Rest is in fitting of self to one's sphere. 
'Tis living and serving the highest and best, 
*Tis onward unswerving — and this is true rest." 

Lesson X. 

Each triumph of the right. 
Each action grand and pure. 

Written in lines of light. 

Forever shall endure. — Amasa Lear. 



HOW TO USE THIS BOOK. 

" Trifles make perfection ; but perfection is no trifle." 

Turn to the recipe you wish to use. 

See that you have everything in the house needed 
for it. 

Turn to the front of the book and read the few re- 
marks on how to cook it ; if baked, look for remarks 
on baking; if boiled, on boiling; if rolled in crumbs, 
egg and crumbs, remarks on breading, etc. 

Look up the time-table for cooking it. 

See that the fire is in proper condition. 

Lay all the utensils and ingredients on one table 
in the coolest part of the kitchen. 

Follow the recipes explicitly. 

Measure with great care and accuracy. 

The last thing before cooking, read the recipe 
through slowly and think if you have put in every- 
thing mentioned. 

Should the result be a failure, it is from some mis- 
take on your part, as every recipe in the book has 
been tested many times in the author's classes, by 
pupils knowing as little about cooking as you do. 
Remember, practice makes perfect. 



25 



ABBREVIATIONS. 



tbsp. stands for lablespoonful. 


m. 


stands for minute 


tsp. " ' ■ teaspoonfiil. 


h. 


'' " hour. 


ssp. " " saltspoonful. 


qt. 


" * ' quart. 


c. " " cupful. 


pt. 


" pint. 


hp. " '" heaped. 


lb. 


'' " pound. 


spk. *' " speck. 


oz. 


•' ounce. 



TABLE OF MEASURES AND WEIGHTS. 



4 ssp. . . 


. = I tsp. 


3 tsp. . . 


= I tbsp. 


4 tbsp. . 


= ^4C. 


4 giHs . 


= I c. 


2 C. . , . 


= I pt. 


2 pt. . . . 


= I qt. 


4 qt. . . . 


= I gallon 


8 qt. . . . 


= I peck. 



4 c. flour ..♦.. = I lb. 
2 c. solid butter . = i lb. 

2 c. gran, sugar . = i lb. 

3 c. meal = i lb, 

I hp. tbsp. butter = 2 oz, 

1 hp. tbsp. sugar = i oz. 

2 c. solid meat , = i lb. 
I tbsp. liquid . , = ^oz. 



A speck is Avhat you can put on a quarter-inch square surface. 
Measure salt, pepper, soda and spices level spoonfuls. Measure 
everything else, including cream of tartar, rounded. 



26 



TIME-TABLE FOR COOKING. 



BAKING. 



Bread . 

Biscuits and rolls 
Loaf Cake 
Fruit Cake 
Pies 

Potatoes . 
Sweet Potatoes 
Beef rare . 
Mutton, well done 
Chickens . 
Turkeys, lO lb. 
Grouse 
Quail . 
Fish, 4 to 6 lbs. 



45 m. 
. 10 to 15 " 

30 *' 40 '' 

. 3 " 4 " 
30 '' 40 '' 

. 30 '' 40 '' 
30 '' 40 " 
8 to 10 m. per lb. 

J ^ U U ii 

. iito2h. 

2i " 3 h. 

30 m. 

15 " 20 " 
45 '' 60 '* 



BOILING. 

Potatoes 20 

Sweet Potatoes . . .15 
Rice, sweetbreads, spinach . 15 
Winter vegetables, except beets 

and grains . . . . i to 2 h 
Fish . . . . 6 to 10 m. per lb 



30 m, 
20 '' 
20 '' 



BROILING. 




Chickens .... 


20 m, 


Shad .... 


20 '' 


Steak and chops- 


. 6 to 10 m 


Chops in paper 


10 m 



27 



FIRE. 

" All the heat which we generate for household 
purposes is caused by the chemical action of air upon 
fuel." 

Air consists mainly of two gases, oxygen and 
nitrogen, with a minute quantity of carbonic acid 
gas and watery vapor. Oxygen constitutes one-fifth 
of the air and nitrogen four-fifths. Coal, wood, 
charcoal, kerosene oil and gas are composed of a 
solid substance called carbon, or a gas called hydro- 
gen. Fuels that contain both are called hydro-car- 
bons. 

Oxygen has a powerful attraction for these two 
substances, and at a certain temperature, called the 
" burning point," combines with them and produces 
combustion and heat ; the result of this combustion 
is carbonic acid gas and watery vapor. Thus we 
scratch the match, the heat of the friction ignites the 
sulphur, and with the burning match we light the 
paper, and that in turn warms and lights the wood. 
As the fire burns a chemical change takes place in 
the fuel, and we have as a result gas, smoke and 
ashes ; the energy which has been stored .up in the 
fuel has been liberated in what we call heat and fire. 
The gases, carbonic acid and smoke, formed from 
burning fuel are poisonous and must have somie es- 
cape from the room. We must also have a good 
supply of air, as one pound of wood requires nearly 
six pounds of air to burn it, and one pound of mineral 
coal over nine pounds of air. 

29 



30 THE YOUNG COOK'S GUIDE. 

MAKING AND CARE OF A FIRE, 
" Well begun is half done." 

Open all the dampers, close the lids and slides, 
turn over the grate ; let it stand a minute for the 
ashes to settle. Open the lids, brush the ashes from 
the inside of the stove ; clean out the oven, remove 
the ashes and set the grate safely and surely. Put 
in loose rolls of paper half way up the grate, cover 
with shavings or chips, then a layer of larger pieces 
of wood. Put on the covers, brush the entire stove 
and blacken it, but do not polish it yet ;■ open all the 
draughts, light a piece of paper and push under the 
grate so as to light the back part ; light the front 
also. Now polish the top of the stove and all around, 
put on the water for cooking, watch the course of 
the flame that you may choose the hottest part : 
when the paper is burned, open one lid at a time, 
push the wood down evenly, add another good layer 
of wood and a thin layer of coal. Be careful to leav^e 
no holes for the coal to fall, through the wood, onto 
the grate. As the coal burns up add more coal, 
being careful not to let any lie on the top of the in- 
side of the stove, and never have it about the fire box 
or near the lids. It is wasteful and you will not have 
as hot an oven as with a low, clear fire. When the 
blue flame has left you may close the dampers, as 
this shows that the gas has passed off. The fire is 
at its best when first kindled ; when bright red most 
of its heat has passed away. 

To keep a fire for baking for several hours, add a 
little coal at a time and keep the under part free 
from ashes by raking a little, occasionally keeping 
some of the draughts open. 



FIRE. 31 

Do not rake a whitey-red fire, you will put it out. 

Put on a very few coals, open all the draughts, let 
it kindle well, add a very little more coal, and when 
that has kindled rake carefully and add more coal. 

To keep a fire for hours without using add a little 
fresh coal, and after a few moments close the dampers. 

If any thing be spilled on the stove rub well with 
paper at once. 

Use a paper bag from the grocers on your hand 
when polishing the stove and burn up when done. 

Sift all ashes well, remove all slate and clinker and 
sprinkle well with cold water. 




FOOD. 

Food is anything that supports or nourishes Hfe. 

Every movement, breath, thought, results in waste. 

This waste must be supplied. 

A certain amount of heat, also, is needed to sup- 
port life ; if the temperature of our bodies vary a 
few degrees the result is fatal. 

Our food should supply material for growth, re- 
pair, and warmth. 

Food has been classified viz : 

Nitrogeneous or Albuminous, also called Pro- 

tieds. 
Carbonaceous. 

Water — which cannot be ranked strictly with 
either group. 

Nitrogeneous Foods contain nitrogen, and supply 
material for growth and repair. 

Carbonaceous Foods contain carbon, and supply 
material for heat. 

Water assists in dissolving and carrying the 
food through the body, regulates the temperature by 
throwing off the heat through the skin in perspira- 
tion, and through the lungs, and constitutes three- 
fourths of the entire weight of the body. 

The blood, bones, nails, muscles, are largely com- 
posed of water. 

There are also minerals found in small quantities 
in most of our food, which serve to build up certain 
tissues. 



32 



FOOD. 33 

Chloride of sodium, or common salt, iron, potash, 
sulphur, magnesia, lime, phosphorus, silica. 
Lime is found in the bones and teeth. 
Phosphorus is found in the brain. 
Silica is found in the hair and nails. 
Iron gives color to the blood. 

NITROGENEOUS OR ALBUMINOUS FOODS — PROTIEDS. 

The typical food of this class is albumen, white of 
egg I so called from a Latin word, meaning " the 
white." 

Protied is from a Greek word, meaning *' first," be- 
cause nitrogen is always found in the living cells 
which are the beginning of life. 

Albuminous foods consist of eggs, lean meat, fish, 
milk, wheat, peas, beans, corn, oatmeal. The albu- 
men in meat is in the juice ; in egg, the white ; also a 
little in the yolk ; in flour, the gray, sticky substance 
called gluten ; in milk the curd ; in peas and beans it 
is called vegetable caseine. 

Egg albumen coagulates and becomes a solid 
white substance when placed in water at a tempera- 
ture of i66^. 

Blood albumen coagulates at a temperature of i6o^. 

Cold water merely holds it in solution. 

CARBONACEOUS FOODS. 

These foods are classed under three heads, viz : 

Starch, 

Sugar, 

Fats. 
The starches and sugars are classed together and 
called Carbo-hydrates. As they are the chief heat 



34 THE YOCXG cook's GUIDE. 

producing foods they need abundance of oxygen to 
burn them, as the fire needs plenty of air to burn 
the fuel. 

Starch — is found in large quantities in grains, 
seeds, vegetables, and is also found in the fruits, 
leaves and stems. 

Sago, \ 

Tapioca, v S3 per cent, starch. 

Arrowroot, ) 

Rice and fine wheaten flour, 76 per cent, starch. 

Rye, 71 '• " 

Scotch oatmeal, 63 '' " '' 

Peas, 51 " 

Potatoes, 15 '' '' 

In the seeds it is the stored up energy of the sum- 
mer. 

Starch consists of minute grains of different size 
and shape : potato grains being largest, wheat smaller, 
parsnips and turnips still smaller. Starch is a snow- 
white powder and is stored up in cells with very 
thin walls of an albuminous juice, which is not 
affected by cold water. Hot water heats the juice 
and causes the starch grains to burst. 

Sugar differs from starch in that it can be easily 
dissolved in cold water and has a sweet taste. It is 
found in both plants and animals. Our supply comes 
entirely from plants, their saps, juices, fruits and 
seeds. The two principal varieties are cane sugar 
and grape sugar. Nearly all of our common sugar 
is obtained from the sugar cane. 

Grape sugar composes the main bulk of honey and 
is found in large quantities in raisins, plums, figs, 
and other fruits. 



FATS AND OILS. 35 

Sugar, under the action of ferment, is decomposed ; 
grape sugar is the quickest to change, as cane sugar, 
by the agency of acids, must first be changed to 
grape sugar before it will ferment. 

Milk sugar, found in milk, is similar to cane sugar, 
and is changed, when taken as food, into grape sugar. 

FATS AND OILS. 

These are the principal heat-giving foods, being 
about eighty per cent, carbon and ten per cent, hy- 
drogen : when they come in contact with oxygen are 
burned with ^reat intensity and yield much heat. 

One pound of suet requires three pounds of oxy- 
gen for perfect combustion, while one pound of 
starch requires but one and two-tenth pounds of 
oxygen. 

They are also the chief material of adipose tissue, 
and a certain amount is needed to give beauty to 
the form. 

Our fats and oils are obtained from animals and 
vegetables. 

Suet, mutton tallow, and lard, are from beef, mut- 
ton and pork : cod liver oil, from the liver of the 
cod ; butter and cheese from milk : olive oil, from 
the fruit of the olive : and many nuts and seeds have 
it in large quantities. 

The fats are stored up in the system against a 
time of need, and supply warmth and activity during 
abstinence from food. 



DIGESTION. 

Digestion is the process by which food is changed 
into a liquid and becomes a portion of the blood ; 
the source from which the entire system draws for 
all its needs. There are three distinct processes 
which take place : 

First — in the mouth. 

Second — in the stomach. 

Third — in the intestines. 
As the food passes through the body it meets 
with five digestive juices .which act on the different 
foods. 

1. Saliva — acts upon starchy food. 

2. Gastric — acts upon nitrogenous food. 

3. Bile — acts upon fat and retards decomposition. 

4. Pancreatic — acts upon fat. 

5. Intestinal — has the power of all the other juices. 
I. Saliva. — When the food enters the mouth it meets 
the first digestive juice, which is the saliva, and is 
stored in three pairs of salivary glands, which lie 
under the ear, side of the throat and under the chin. 
The saliva is alkaline, is mostly composed of water, to 
dilute the food ; a small quantity of saline matter to 
season the food and give it the taste ; and a peculiar 
substance, called ptyalin, which forms less than one 
five-hundredth part of the whole saliva. It is this 
substance that changes the starch into sugar, and 
after a while the sugar into lactic acid. This saliva 
also froths easily and so carries oxygen with the food 
into the stomach. 

36 



DIGESTION. 37 

It is of the greatest importance that the food 
should be thoroughly masticated and moistened with 
the saliva, that the first step in digestion be thorough. 
Salt and seasoning cause the saliva to flow ; the 
thought or sight of some attractive dish will cause 
the mouth to water. Care should be taken not to 
waste or throw away what nature has provided and 
needs for constant use. 

Saliva has no effect on nitrogenous foods. 

2. Gastric juice. — The food, after leaving the 
mouth, passes into the stomach, which is a sort of 
pouch, the walls of which consist of three muscular 
coats, which move in different directions, and pro- 
duce a churning motion ; from the inside wall, pours 
a fluid called gastric juice. It is always acid, hydro- 
chloric, and contains a minute quantity of a ferment- 
ing substance, called pepsin, which is a powerful 
digestive agent, and is obtained for medicinal pur- 
poses from the stomachs of hungry little pigs. 

As the food is rolled round and over in the stom- 
ach, the surface of it is exposed to this juice, which 
acts upon the nitrogenous food, and changes the 
gluten and fibrin of flesh to a semi-fluid state, and 
melts the fat, but does not change it. The stomach, 
through the minute veins spread over the entire 
inner surface, absorb some of the perfectly digested 
food, while the rest passes in this fluid state into the 
smaller intestines. 

3. Bile. 

4. Pancreatic. — A few inches from the entrance 
of the food into the small intestine, two small tubes 
open, one from the liver, bringing bile, the other 
from the pancreas, pouring in pancreatic juice. 



38 THE YOUNG COOK'S GUIDE. 

These juices are alkaline, and attack the undigested 
starch, and reduce the fats and oils to minute par- 
ticles. 

5. lilt est inaL — From the walls of the intestines 
flow the intestinal juice, which is also alkaline. Al- 
though the bile, pancreatic, and intestinal juices are 
all alkaline, they act upon the sugar, changing it to 
lactic acid, and the contents of the intestines quickly 
become acidulous, thus completing the digestion of 
portions of nitrogenous food not fully digested in the 
stomach. As the food passes through the intestine 
a portion of it is absorbed through the veins which 
line the intestines, and part is taken up by fine tubes 
arising in the intestinal coats, called lacteals, which 
finally gather into a tube, called the thoractic duct, 
and by this duct conveyed into large veins above the 
heart ; it then passes through the heart into the pul- 
monary artery, thence into the lungs. The worn out 
tissue is also carried to the lungs and there burned 
up, or thrown out of the system with the un- 
digested food. As the blood enters the lungs it 
is purple, but the oxygen it meets there changes 
it to red vitalized blood, and burns up the im- 
purities which are thrown out of the lungs at every 
breath, in carbonic acid gas and watery vapor ; the 
same products as are formed by the combustion 
produced in a fire. The oxygenized blood passes 
through the heart again and enters the great 
artery, from which it is carried by smaller arteries 
all through the system. From this supply each lit- 
tle cell and tissue draws such material as it needs for 
repair ; for the cells and tissues are constantly wear- 
ing out and need building up. 



NUTRITIOUS AND INNUTRITIOUS FOODS. 39 

As we must keep the grate free from ashes if we 
want a bright fire, so we must keep the body free 
from useless matter if we wish to be healthy. 

The bowels, kidneys, lungs, skin, are constantly 
throwing off the waste of the system, and need to 
be in good working order, or disease follows. The 
lungs should be well filled with pure air, the pores 
of the skin kept open by frequent bathing, the kid- 
neys and bowels perform their work regularly. We 
may stop the supply of food for days without injury, 
but let the waste material fail to be removed for one 
day, it willpoison the system and disease will follow. 

All of our food is not digested, some of it passing 
through the intestines unchanged, and is carried 
with the innutritions portion from the body through 
the bowels. 

NUTRITIOUS AND INNUTRITIOUS FOODS. 

Nutritious foods are those which can be digested, 
and so made part of the blood, from which the sys- 
tem is repaired and built up. Innutritions foods are 
those which cannot be digested, either from their 
nature, or by improper combinations, or have been 
made indigestible by cooking. 

Albumen is the great supply of the nervous sys- 
tem, but if through improper cooking it is hardened 
and toughened, as in the case of a so-called hard 
boiled egg, it passes through the body, giving little, 
if any, nutriment. 

While the system needs a large amount of nutri- 
tious food, it needs also a certain quantity of innu- 
tritious food to furnish bulk for the digestive organs 
to work upon. But to load the system with food 



40 THE YOUNG COOK'S GUIDE. 

that will take hours to digest, if digested at all, is 
to weaken and wear out the digestive organs, and 
bring on a train of troubles that may take years to 
remove. 

Plain, wholesome food, well cooked and attract- 
ively served, will help to create a healthy appetite 
and good digestion. 

Regular periods for eating are also necessary, that 
in the intervals there may be time for the building 
up of the parts that have been wasted during the 
digestive process. 

DAILY REQUIREMENT OF FOOD. 

No definite rule can be laid down for the regula- 
tion of individual diet, as climate, age, occupation 
and temperament must all be considered. " What is 
one man's meat is another man's poison," so that 
while certain proportions of different foods have 
been recommended, every intelligent person must 
learn from experience what is best for them ; but 
our diet must combine different kinds of food 
material in order to repair all the parts. It is neces- 
sary to remember the different properties of food to 
proportion them, so as each may supply what is lack- 
ing in the other. That it must be attractive, both 
in appearance and odor, is of importance ; and to 
produce this result we try to bring out tempting 
flavors, for food that tastes good, gives more nourish- 
ment, so that seasoning is a great help to-digestion. 

Eggs and milk are both types of perfect food, con- 
taining all the necessary elements ; but many per- 
sons can not eat eggs, and milk is not agreeable to 
all. Certain elements are needed by all in every 



DAILY REQUIREMENT OF FOOD. 4I 

day's portion, and the best rules are those that in- 
clude animal as well as vegetable diet. The pro- 
portion for growing persons is one part nitrogenous 
and four parts carbonaceous. For grown persons 
one part nitrogenous to five or six parts carbona- 
ceous. A fair average ration per day is, perhaps : 

Bread i lb. 10 oz. 

Fat I to 2 oz. 

Rice (cooked) -I lb. 

Flesh ilb. 

Bread and potatoes contain no fat and require 
butter to make them palatable ; we serve milk or 
cream with oatmeal, cheese with crackers or maccar- 
oni ; thus we supply to each what is lacking. Labor- 
ing people, and those working in the open air a good 
deal, need wholesome food in large quantities ; those 
who spend much of their time in close, heated rooms, 
need more easily digested food, containing a great 
amount of nutriment. Avoid fat and much animal 
food in the summer, using grains, green vegetables and 
fruits ; they are far better than any drugs to purify the 
system. Those who find it difficult to make both ends 
meet, should choose the foods containing the most 
nutriment for the least money. Indian meal, flour, 
rye flour, wheat, oatmeal, barley, beans, are among 
the best. 



COOKING. 

To cook is to prepare or dress ; to boil, bake, or 
roast. 

We cook our food to make it more palatable and 
digestible, and thus make it more nutritious. 

Some of our food has already been prepared 
by the heat of the sun, such as lettuce, radishes, 
fruits, etc.; some can be cooked in their own juices, 
such as tomatoes, spinach ; and still others have 
been hardened during the ripening process, such as 
grains, and need to be cooked in a liquid, that they 
m,ay be swollen and softened. 

The tender fibres of steak, fish, poultry, etc., are 
improved by cooking with intense dry heat, such as 
we have in roasting or broiling, which keep all the 
juices and nutriment in the meat. 

A free circulation of air while cooking, also im- 
proves and develops certain flavors, as in the case of 
broiled, roasted or toasted food. 

BOILING. 

Boiling is the process of cooking our food in a 
boiling liquid. 

Water is the liquid most generally used. 

We first boil or cook the water before cooking the 
food in it. 

Water is composed of two gases ; eight parts oxy- 
gen, one part hydrogen. As the water boils the 
gases escape and give it a flat taste ; therefore, to 
improve the flavor of food it should always be freshly 

42 



BOILING MEATS. 43 

boiled. When water is put in a pan on the fire as it 
becomes heated, small bubbles rise and burst just 
before they reach the surface, causing a very slight 
motion. This is called simmering, and the tempera- 
ture is 1 80°. In a little while the bubbles rise, 
breaking and bubbling above the surface. The 
water is now boiling and the temperature is 212^. 
If we increase the heat and cause the water to boil 
furiously, we will find that the temperature is the 
same, so that if water boils it is a waste of fuel to 
make it boil any harder, as the food will not be 
cooked any quicker. Milk boils at 196'^ as it is 
much thicker than water. 

If we will remember the following effect of hot 
and cold water on the elements of food, we will be 
able to reason for ourselves which to use, without 
constantly running to find out from some other 
quarter. 

Cold water draws out the juices, albumen and 
starch, and softens the fibres of meats. 

Hot water hardens and coagulates albumen, stops 
the flow of juices, and bursts the starch grains. 

BOILING MEATS. 

We cook meat in water for three purposes. 

1. In cold water, to draw out the juice into the 
water, as soup, beef-tea. 

2. In hot water, to keep the juices in the meat, 
as boiled meat. 

3. In cold water, quickly heated, to have the juice 
partly in the meat and partly in the water, as in 
stews. 

Long continued, slow boiling, softens the fibres of 



44 THE YOUNG COOK'S GUIDE. 

tough meat, making them more digestible. The 
water in which they have been cooked should be 
used, as there is nutriment in it. 

BOILED VEGETABLES. 

Green vegetables should be well washed if at all 
wilted; lay in cold water for some time before cook- 
ing, then put into boiling, salted water, and cooked 
rapidly, uncovered, until tender. 

New potatoes may be boiled as soon as pared, but 
in the late spring, old potatoes should stand an hour 
in cold water before cooking. Potatoes and cauli- 
flower should be boiled slowly. 

GRAINS. 
All grains should be put into boiling, salted water, 
boiled rapidly ten minutes, then steamed, or simmer, 
until each grain is tender. 

SIMMERING. 

Much of our food is wasted by hard, rapid boiling. 
Albumen coagulates at i8o^, but if put into boiling 
water, at 212^, it is toughened and made indigestible. 
When the nutriment is to be partly in the water, it 
is necessary to cook the food by simmering, instead 
of boiHng. Bring the water to the boiling point, 
then add the food to be cooked, and keep the sauce- 
pan where the water will just bubble a little in one 
place. 

All albuminous foods are best cooked in this way. 

STEAMING. 
There are two ways of cooking our food by steam- 
ing. One is by having a steamer, or covered pan, 
with holes in the bottom, placed over boiling water, 



ROASTING. 45 

the steam passing into the steamer and cooking the 
food ; the other way is by having a smaller pan set 
into a larger pan, containing boiling water. The 
food is in the upper pan, and the heat from the lower 
pan passes through the upper pan, and cooks the 
food. All preparations of food that are likely to 
curdle, are best cooked in these two pans, which are 
called double boilers. You can manufacture one 
easily by using two different sized pans and putting 
a muffin ring, two or three nails, or any thing else 
you may think of, to keep the upper pan from rest- 
ing on the bottom of the lower pan. In all cases the 
steam should be kept in by a tight cover, and the 
water should be replenished by adding boiling water 
from time to time. Never take the cover wholly off, 
as you allow cold air to enter, and if it is pudding or 
bread, it will fall and be heavy. Remove the cover 
a very little if you wish to look in, and cover im- 
mediately. Never allow the zuater to stop boiling for 
■a moment. 

ROASTING. 

Roasting is to cook before an open fire, but most 
of the roast meat prepared in private families is 
cooked in the oven. The fire for roasting should be 
bright, free from ashes and sufficient to last through 
the entire baking. The oven should be very hot, 
400^. Meat, poultry, game and fish should be wiped 
with a wet cloth, never washed, as water draws out 
the juices of the meat. Dredge with salt, pepper 
and flour. Salt draws out the juices, flour combines 
and forms a paste, and the intense heat makes a 
crust, which prevents the juices from escaping. 



46 THE YOUNG COOK'S GUIDE. 

Never break this crust by sticking a fork or knife in^ 
or you will let out the juices. Always place the 
meat on a rack to keep it from the fat. Put bits of 
suet on top of the meat and in the pan. If you 
have no suet use clarified drippings. Put no water 
in the pan, as it will produce steam in the oven and 
reduce the temperature to that of boiling water, 212^. 
Place in the hottest part of a very hot oven, let it 
bake for a few moments, this is to seal it, then, if in 
danger of burning, move to a cooler part of the oven. 
Baste often with the melted fat, and place a thin pan 
under the baking pan, to prevent the fat from burn> 
ing. Dredge with flour once while baking. 

Chickens and turkeys should be rubbed with soft 
butter, and some of the fat laid on top of them. 
You may cover any portion browning too quickly 
with oiled paper. After the outside is well seared, 
you rnay baste with a little butter dissolved in a lit- 
tle hot water, if they are not fat enough to baste 
with their own fat. 

BROILING. 

Broiling is cooking over bright-red coals. It is the 
most intense heat that we can get for cooking, and 
only the tender fibres of meat and fish are adapted 
to this way of cooking. The fire should be to the 
top of the fire box, bright red coals, with no blue 
flame, as this shows there is gas in the fuel. All the 
draughts should be open, that the smoke and gases 
may escape up the chimney. Have a large pan 
handy to hold the broiler over when you need to 
take it from the fire. Grease the broiler well with a 
piece of suet or salt pork. Do not salt, pepper, or 



PAN BROILING. 47 

flour the meat. Place the meat in the broiler with 
the thickest part nearest the handle. The fat edge 
of the meat should be nearest the handle also, if 
possible, so that as it melts it may run down and 
baste the meat. Too much fat will produce smoke, 
so it should be trimmed off. Cover the hand with a 
towel to moderate the heat. Hold the meat near 
the coals for a few seconds, turn at once and seal 
the other side. Frequent turning prevents burning, 
and keeps the juices in ; it should be turned every 
ten seconds. Do not hold the meat in the smoke, 
but in the flame ; and if there is a great deal of 
smoke, remove, and hold over the pan for a few mo- 
ments. When done, place on a hot dish, sprinkle 
with salt and pepper, and serve immediately. Every 
thing else must be ready before this is started. 

Chops and birds may be salted and peppered, and 
wrapped in buttered paper, and broiled in the papers. 
Glazed writing paper is the best, and it should be 
pinched around the edges to prevent the air from 
getting in, and the fat from getting out. They need 
a little more care, so as not to burn the paper, and 
take a little more time, but are very delicious. 

PAN BROILING. 

Sometimes, for various reasons, it is impossible to 
open the top of the fire to broil. Pan broiling is an 
excellent substitute, and if care be taken to remove 
all fat from the pan, so that the food may not be 
fried, it will be found a very satisfactory way of 
cooking. Heat a frying pan to a blue heat, grease 
slightly with a little suet, just enough to prevent the 
meat from sticking ; put in the meat, and in ten 



48 THE YOUNG COOK'S GUIDE. 

seconds turn it, so as to seal the other side. Put the 
fork in the fat when turning it, so as not to let the 
juices out of the meat. When done, turn up on the 
fat edges, to cook the fat. Cook about four or five 
minutes, according to the thickness of the meat. 
As the fat melts drain off every drop, or it will be 
fried meat instead of broiled. Salt and pepper it 
when done, and serve on hot dish at once. 

BRAISING. 

Braising is a kind of stewing in a covered pan in 
the oven. It is an excellent way to prepare the 
tougher and less expensive cuts of meats, and if 
properly prepared the meat will be tender and palat- 
able. The meat should be first salted, peppered, 
dredged with a little flour, and browned in a little 
fat ; then put in a deep baking pan, and enough 
stock or water added to half cover the meat. This 
does not mean to use two pounds of meat and 
a pan that will hold a gallon of water. You may 
add any spices or vegetables that you desire. Keep 
the pan well covered and baste the meat frequently. 
The meat should cook slowly, and as the liquid 
evaporates do not add any more, but use the little 
left, as the foundation to make the gravy with. 

FRYING. 

Frying is cooking in deep, hot fat. There should 
always be enough fat to cover the article to be fried. 
The fat should be tested, and never used till hot 
enough to harden the outside of the article to be 
fried, and so protect the inside from absorbing the 
fat. A covering of eggs, or eggs in the material is 



TO PREPARE FAT FOR FRYING. 49 

often used, and the albumen of the egg hardens in- 
stantly, and prevents the fat from entering the food. 
Great care should be used to have the fat the proper 
heat. Do not put too many articles in at a time as 
they will chill the fat. Never have the material to 
be fried very cold. Do not have any steam or boil- 
ing water near the fat, and move carefully on the 
fire, for if it spills over it will take fire, and is very 
dangerous. 

Cottolene is the best frying material ; it is abso- 
lutely pure and wholesome, made of the cottonseed 
oil and beef drippings. As a substitute for butter 
and lard, for shortening, it is excellent, being much 
more economical, and produces very satisfactory re- 
sults. 

Lard should always be tried out before using, and 
one-fourth beef drippings to three-fourths lard is a 
very good proportion. Olive oil is too expensive for 
ordinary use. 

TO PREPARE FAT FOR FRYING. 

Cottolene is already prepared and need only be 
put in a co/d pan and brought slowly to the proper 
heat. Care should be taken that it does not get too 
hot, as it does not sputter and bubble like lard. 

Lard should be put on the fire and and when hot, 
a few slices of raw potato should be put in, and let 
remain till light brown, then taken out and thrown 
away. The potato has absorbent properties and 
draws out of the lard any unpleasant taste ; it also 
attracts any floating particles and leaves the lard 
clear. 

Keep the doors of the kitchen shut when frying 



50 THE YOUNG COOK'S GUIDE. 

and open the window a little from the top and the 
bottom. 

TEST OF FAT FOR FRYING. 

When a small piece of bread browns in thirty sec- 
onds it is hot enough for potatoes and oysters. 
When it browns in forty seconds it is hot enough for 
material already cooked, such as fish balls, cro- 
quettes. When it browns in sixty seconds it is hot 
enough for material uncooked, such as doughnuts, 
fritters, fish, meat. 

Test the fat always before frying anything. Do 
not guess at it, but take accurate time. 

After frying one panful, allow the fat to heat again 
and test it every time before using. 

If the fat is the right temperature you may fry 
anything and it will not taste ; fish, then crullers, etc. 

It is best to leave, if possible, all breaded articles 
till the last, as the crumbs drop off and burn in the 
fat, and may adhere to other material cooked. 

All fried food should be drained on coarse, nnglazed 
brown paper, which you can get at any meat market. 

When you have finished using the fat, remove 
from the fire at once, let stand ten minutes to settle, 
then pour off slowly and carefully through a fine 
sieve, all but the sediment. Wipe the pan out with 
paper and save it for starting the fire in the morn- 
ing. The fat may be used with care many times 
until it becomes very dark, when it is good only for 
soap grease. 

SAUTEING. 

This is cooking in a little hot fat, browning first 
one side and then the other. But few articles are 



STIRRING, BEATING, FOLDING. 5 1 

well prepared in this way, and although few will be- 
lieve it, it is no more economical than plunging in 
deep fat, as the material absorbs more fat when all 
of the surface is not at once sealed by contact with 
the hot fat. Cold boiled potatoes, omelets, and fried 
cakes, are best prepared this way. The same rule 
holds good here of having the fat hot and the ma- 
terial not too cold. 

LARDING. 

Only lean, dry meat is improved by larding, such 
as fillet of beef, veal, grouse, quail. For larding use 
firm, solid, clear, fat, salt pork. Use only the part 
near the rind, not over an inch from the rind, as it 
becomes soft, and will trouble you by breaking. 
Cut into slices about an eighth of an inch thick, then 
into square strips; for beef, about the size of a lead 
pencil, for grouse or quails smaller. Push one of the 
strips or lardoons into the head of the needle, take 
up a stitch about an inch long with the point of the 
needle, draw the needle through, pushing the lard so 
that it will not come out of the needle. Leave the 
pork sticking out of the meat a third of an inch at 
each end. Put two or three rows of these lardoons, 
according to the size of the meat to be larded. 

STIRRING, BEATING, FOLDING. 
It is absolutely necessary, for the proper and suc- 
cessful preparation of most of the recipes containing 
well beaten eggs, that these three motions should be 
thoroughly understood. In many cases, the result 
of ignorance in this part of the preparation of food, 
results in heavy, leathery omelets, badly risen cake, 
and soggy, doughy muffins. 



•jiM 



52 THE YOUNG COOK'S GUIDE. 

We stir in order to blend the material ; this is 
done by keeping the spoon in the bowl and moving 
it round and round, having the bowl of the spoon 
touch the bottom of the dish and mash against the 
sides of the bowl. 

We beat to entangle air in the mixture, such as 
beating eggs or batters. This is done by moving the 
spoon in a circle, scraping the bottom and sides of 
the bowl each time, bringing the spoon into the air 
and over into the opposite side of the dough. The 
bowl should be slightly tipped, and the spoon and 
bowl should be scraped, so that all the material will 
be well beaten. 

V^Q fold or ciLf in to avoid breaking the air cells, 
which we have made by thorough beating, as in the 
well beaten whites of eggs. This is done by turning 
the mixture over with the spoon, cutting through 
and folding over gently, but not stirring round and 
round. Stirring breaks the air cells, and all mixtures 
in which you have eggs used to raise the ingred- 
ients, should have a good beating just before baking, 
but do not, after you have beaten the mixture, stir 
it. Never stir or beat the mixture after folding in 
beaten whites or whipped cream. 

BREAD CRUMBING. 

Save all bits of bread that have oeen left over. 
Equal parts of crust and inside make the most appe- 
tizing color. Bakers bread is by far the best for 
this. Use no bicrnt or very dark-colored crusts. 
When dry and crisp, roll and sift through a fine sieve, 
and keep some constantly on hand, stored in a 
covered can or jar. When needed, season with a 



BONING. 53 

little salt and pepper, for every thing but sweet 
dishes. To roll in " crumbs, egg and crumbs," 
sprinkle a good layer on a board, break an egg into 
a saucer, beat up yolk and white slightly, add two 
tablespoonfuls cold water to one egg (this is to 
economise on the egg) ; lay the article to be breaded 
in the crumbs, cover all over with them, lift up, let- 
ting all drop off that will come, lay in the Qgg, dip 
the egg up over it till all is coated with the egg^ 
breaking all the bubbles, as these will cause a cro- 
quette to break and run out, or become fat soaked ; 
remove from the egg by dipping a broad bladed 
knife under carefully, lay in the crumbs again and 
toss them all over it. Be very careful in handling 
after they are crumbed the second time, as you may 
break through the egg, and it is the albumen of the 
egg that is to harden in the hot fat and seal the out- 
side, that the food may not be greasy. Sift the 
crumbs after using and put away for future use. 
When forming cutlets or croquettes in a mold, 
grease the mold with a pastry brush, dipped in 
melted butter, fill with crumbs, toss them out, leav- 
ing in all that adhere to the mold, press the mixture 
into the mold, smooth off level with a knife, turn 
out on a well-crumbed board, cover with crumbs, 
then egg and crumbs again. Grease the mold but 
once. 

BONING. 

One object lesson is worth all the directions that 
can be given on boning. Have a small, sharp-pointed 
knife, and begin with something simple, such as a- 
chop or steak first. Commence at the bone end, 



54 THE YOUNG COOK'S GUIDE. 

pushing the meat away from the bone without cut- 
ting the meat any more than possible. Always cut 
away from you. 

Boned Leg of Lamb. Have the leg cut a little 
above the second joint, so that you will have a piece 
of flesh to fold over the hole that the bone leaves. 
Start at the large end, pushing the flesh away from 
the bone, and turning over like a glove. Cut close 
to the bone, but leave all gristle and cords on the 
bone. Salt and pepper the cavity and stuff ; sew up 
the small end, fold the skin over the large end and 
sew up. A boned piece of meat takes much longer 
to cook than one with the bone in. 

Boned Chicken. The fowl should not be drawn, 
and the skin should be firm and without a break. 
Cut off the head, leaving two inches of the neck on 
the body. Remove the pin feathers, singe, and wipe 
off gently. Make an incision from the back of the 
neck right down the middle of the back bone; scrape 
the meat away from the back bone until you feel the 
shoulder blade ; scrape the flesh from this and follow 
it down to the bone. Be careful in going round the 
joints, as the skin lies very near the bone. Scrape 
on down the wing bone, turning the flesh away from 
the bone, that you may not cut the skin. Scrape 
carefully around the second joint of the wing, leav- 
ing the tips on, as it looks better when done. Do 
the other wing in the same way. Then work down 
towards the breast, removing the crop ; keep close 
in to the breast bone, and when both sides of the 
bone are free, hold the flesh entirely away from the 
bone on both sides, and with great care cut the skin 
from the ridge. This is the most important part, 



BONING. S5 

that the fowl may look well when done. Separate 
the flesh from the ribs, holding the knife slanting, 
that you may not cut into the inside. Follow down 
the leg bone, going carefully round the joints. Separ- 
ate the membrane at the end of the body without 
breaking, and cut the backbone just above the tail, 
leaving the tail on the boned portion. You will find 
left a perfect skeleton, with the entire contents un- 
touched. Stuff, and sew up down the back, and 
skewer into shape. 



CARE OF FOOD. 

"Waste not; want not." 

That the cost of living is very much increased by 
the wilful and ignorant waste in the kitchen, is an 
indisputable fact. The poor, as well as the rich, 
constantly throw away food which, if properly cared 
for, would make many a wholesome and palatable 
meal, without lightening a purse already too slender 
to meet the actual wants of the home. *' Haste 
makes waste," and the hurry that throws out all the 
little odds and ends, will soon become a " habit, 
which is a cable ; we weave a thread of it every day," 
and at last we cannot break it. Remember, that 
" Diligence is the mother of good luck," and nine- 
tenths of the good luck we see fall to other people, 
may be ours if we work for it. ''A pound of pluck 
is worth a ton of luck." After each meal lay away 
all the remnants of food, and before marketing " take 
account of stock," that you may plan accordingly. 
As the principal causes of decomposition in our food 
are air, warmth, and moisture, it is important that 
these should be excluded. Keep all the perishable 
food in a cool, dry, enclosed place. As soon as the 
marketing comes home, remove at once from the 
papers, examine the meat and fish, lay on a plate 
and put away at once. Do not put fish in the same 
compartment with butter and milk, as it is apt to 
taste them. Look over the fruit and vegetables, re- 
move any dried or spotted ones, and put immed- 
iately in a cold place. Wipe off the egg shells, so 

56 



CARE OF FOOD. 57 

they may be ready for the coffee when used, and 
keep them in the ice box, as they keep fresh longer, 
and beat up much Hghter and quicker if cold. Keep 
milk, cream and butter right against the ice. Fruit 
should be kept in a cool place, as it is more refresh- 
ing when cold. Examine fresh fruit and vegetables 
every day, remove the spotted ones, and if not too 
far spoiled cut well around the spots and stew the 
pieces. Never use any fruit that is decayed into the 
core or pit. Fry out all the odds and ends of fats 
at once, as they keep longer, and re-melt often. Do 
not keep milk in tin ; bottles are best, if thoroughly 
scalded and aired. Lemons and cranberries may be 
kept for some time by covering them with cold water, 
keeping them under the water by some weight on 
them ; change the water twice a week. 

Keep nothing in paper as it is disorderly and 
draws vermin. Use boxes, bottles, or small tin cans 
with covers. Keep coffee and tea in airtight tin 
cans. Always put crackers in the oven a few mo- 
ments before using; it makes them crisp. Keep the 
store room and refrigerator perfectly clean. Ex- 
amine the refrigerator every day, that nothing may 
have dropped from the dishes and spoil. See that 
the drain pipe is kept free and the pan underneath 
well scoured out. Never put any hot food in the 
refrigerator. 



SETTING THE TABLE. 

A spotless, well laundried table-cloth, clear glasses, 
and well polished silver are the first necessities to an 
attractive table. No matter how inexpensive the 
appointments, a little pains can make the most hum- 
ble table a source of delight and health to the entire 
household. It is of the utmost importance that our 
food should be served in an attractive way, as diges- 
tion begins before the food enters the mouth ; the 
sight and desire, causing the flow of the first di- 
gestive fluid ; and every woman should be glad to 
give the little time and few touches that can make 
so great a change in the comfort of a home. This, 
surely, is our sphere, and let each one of us do all 
we can, lovingly and willingly, remembering that the 
influence Duist pass on into other lives, and reach 
more than the loved ones in our own homes. 

If possible, have a canton flannel or felt covering 
over the table, as it prevents noise, and the table- 
cloth lies smoother over it. Let the table-cloth be 
without wrinkles, always folding it in the creases, 
and keeping it laid flat when not used. Put the cen- 
tre of the cloth in the centre of the table, the middle 
fold running straight. If there is a flower in the 
house always have it on the table for every meal ; it 
should be placed in the centre of the table, on a cen- 
tre cloth if desired. Knives and forks should be 

OviXGTON Brothers, Fine China and Glass, 
38 and 40 Flatbush Avenue, Brooklyn, N. Y. 

58 



WAITING ON THE TABLE. 59 

placed about seven inches apart, and about half an 
inch from the edge of the table ; knives at the right, 
with the sharp edge turned towards the plate, and 
forks on the left with the tines up. Tumblers 
turned right side up in front of each plate, to the 
right, and butter plates beside them. Extra spoons 
outside of the knives in the order of the courses, 
having the first course spoon or fork outside. Nap- 
kins to the left of the fork, and at dinner a piece of 
bread or a roll in the fold. Plates laid right side up 
at each place between the knife and fork, or in a 
pile at the left hand side of the carver. Pepper and 
salt, if not individual, placed at the corners of the 
table. Jellies, salted nuts, pickles, and olives, in 
small dishes at uniform angles. Tablespoons, for 
serving, laid across each other at diagonal corners, 
or one in front of each dish to be served. Carvinsr 
knife and fork on rests in front of the carver. Place 
the dishes on the table straight, directly in front of 
the one to serve them. Dishes for hot food should 
be heated. The last thing, think over the various 
dishes for the meal, and see that every thing needed 
for them is on the table, or a convenient side table. 
Arrange the chairs a little way from the table, 
straight in front of each place. 

WAITING ON THE TABLE. 

This should be done quietly, carefully and quickly. 
Noisy shoes, rustling skirts, should never be worn. 
In removing the covers from the dishes, turn them 
over quickly, so they may not drip, and lay on a side 
table. Cover the dishes as soon as they have been 
passed round the table. Stand on the left hand side 



6o THE YOUNG COOK'S GUIDE. 

of the one who is serving, and pass to each guest on 
the left hand side, taking care to have the serving 
spoon in a convenient position. Put each dish back 
in its proper place and keep the table, as far as pos- 
sible, in order, till the end of the meal. Watch that 
the glasses are kept filled, three-quarters full only. 
In removing the plates lift up the plate with the 
knife and fork on it, watching that you may not let 
them drop off, then the small side dishes. Remove 
all but the flowers and brush off the crumbs before 
serving the dessert. 

CLEARING THE TABLE. 

Immediately after a meal remove all from the ta- 
ble, brush off the crumbs and fold the tablecloth, 
lifting it by taking hold of the middle fold half way 
towards the two ends, and raising the hands and 
drawing towards you. Lay lengthwise on the table, 
fold in the creases and put carefully away. Fold 
the under cover, lay away. Put the flowers back on 
the table, place the chairs back, brush up the crumbs 
with a whisp and dustpan. Darken the room. 

WASHING DISHES. 

" Beautiful hands are those that do 

Work that is earnest and brave and true, 
Moment for moment the whole day through." 

We SO often hear the remark that washing dishes 
ruins the hands, that perhaps a word in its favor 
from one who has spent many a pleasant hour at 
this homely task, may be helpful to those to whose 
lot it may fall to do this part of household work. 
In the first place, washing dishes does not injure the 



WASHING DISHES. 6l 

hands half as much as paring some fruits and vege- 
tables, blacking stoves, scrubbing with inferior pow- 
ders, and washing with strong solutions. If the 
dishes are well scraped and the grease removed, the 
hands well rinsed in clear cold water before drying, 
and then well dried, it will leave them soft and ten- 
der. It is the housework, not the washing dishes 
that causes such annoying results. 

You need plenty of hot water, clean towels, a 
good dish cloth with no lint (an old flour bag 
hemmed is as nice as anything), and good soap. I 
can heartily recommend and always use Babbitt's. 
It is the best, most economical, softens the water, 
and injures the hands least. 

Collect and scrape all the dishes, putting them 
near the sink ; save every scrap of good food, even 
a crust of bread: ''Wilful waste brings woeful 
want" ; put away the pieces on old dishes. Fill 
all the pans that have had starchy food, such as 
grains, flour, corn starch, etc., with cold water, and 
stand away from the fire, as the heat will harden it. 
Put all the glasses together, and all the silver by it- 
self. Rinse out the cups and pile up the saucers, 
small and large plates, rinse out the. vegetable and 
meat dishes. Put the steel knives and forks to- 
gether, and pile up all the tins. Burn up all meat 
and bones that cannot be used again, and there 
should be none, excepting from soup, as this is the 
food that will decompose quickly if allowed to re- 
main in the garbage pail ; open all the draughts 
when burning, and keep the lids on, and there will 
be no odor through the house. Save any fat from 
tried-out drippings ; also rub out the greasy pans 

4 



62 THE YOUNG COOK'S GUIDE. 

with paper and use this to kindle the fire in the 
morning. Fill the dish-pan two-thirds full ol water 
as hot as you can bear your hand in, shake the soap 
around on a fork or in a shaker (never put it in the 
dish-pan as it wastes it and you will forget it and 
have it stick to the dishes). Lay in four or five 
tumblers, tipping them so as the water goes inside ; 
wash quickl}', lay upside down to drain, lay in four 
more and dry the others at once. If you work 
quickly there is no need of rinsing, they will be 
clean ; but if you prefer, you can pour warm water 
over them. After the tumblers, the cups, a few at a 
time, taking care that there is no sugar left in them 
as that will make them sticky. Before drying each 
set, be sure and put more in the dish-pan as they 
will warm, and dry much quicker. Add hot water 
as the water cools, and put it in when there are no 
dishes in the pan, for fear of cracking them. When 
the water becomes at all greasy, rinse off the greasy 
dishes and get a fresh panful. Never put the silver 
in the pan and rattle it around as it scratches it. 
Wash it in hot soapy water and dry while hot and 
you will not need to clean it so often. Keep a little 
whiting in an old cup to rub off any discoloring from 
minerals. Never put steel knives in water as it 
melts the glue and causes the handles to come off. 
Clean the knives after every meal, and wipe with 
the back of the knife to the towel, not only to 
avoid cutting your hand but the towel also I Rinse 
out all greasy frying and roasting pans, with a little 
water from the dish-pan before washing. Wipe off 
Dover tgg beaters as soon as used with a damp 
cloth ; never put them in water. Rinse out the 



WASHING DISHES. 63 

coffee and tea pot, but never put a soapy dish-cloth 
in either. Do not dry granite ware on the stove, as 
it chips the granite off. Do not throw refuse in the 
sink, and avoid letting the coffee grounds drain 
down, as they will close up the pipes. • Wash out 
the sink and all around it with hot soap suds ; wash 
out the towels with clean hot water and soap, rinse 
in cold water after each meal, drying in the sun as 
often as possible. Scrub up the tables and boards, 
rubbing with the grain of the wood. If care is used 
to let no grease into the sink, and if a kettle of boil- 
ing water in which has been dissolved a half cup of 
washing soda, is poured down the sink once a week, 
you will avoid the exasperating plumber, who spends 
a half day spread across your kitchen floor, blowing 
out your pipes, while the accompanying boy puts 
out your fire ! 



SOUP. 

During the greater part of the year there is noth- 
ing that helps a housekeeper more in serving satis- 
factory dinners than a little good soup. With care 
and economy some kind may always be ready for 
each day. In marketing, see that all the bones and 
trimmings cut off from the meat are sent home, and 
always boil them up, with or without any bones and 
scraps of meat you may have saved, using a few 
vegetables, and when done put away for stock. 
Have a vessel for keeping the bones left over from 
meals, and after laying aside any meat that can be 
made up in other ways, throw all the scraps, gristle, 
and any gravy that may not be needed for warming 
up, into the vessel with the bones. Keep mixed 
herbs and spices always in the house, and one carrot, 
onion, turnip and a little parsley at hand. Do not 
buy but one or two carrots or onions at a time, as 
they spoil rapidly. Save all the green stalks of cel- 
ery not fit to serve at the table, also any little bits 
of green vegetables, such as peas, beans, etc. ; rinse 
off in hot water and keep for serving in soup ; and 
try and remember to do it before they spoil ! Do 
not throw away one chop bone, but put it in a cold 
place and you will soon find another to keep it com- 
pany ! Save the water in which meat, such as tongue, 
lamb, poultry, veal, has been boiled and use it for 
making soup. 

As soup needs hours for cooking, plan to make the 

64 



SOUP. 65 

stock for it on the days when you use the fire and 
make the quickly-prepared soups the days that the 
fire is not needed. '^ A penny saved is a penny 
earned" and if she be wise, by watchfulness, the 
housekeeper can earn as much as the bread-winner. 

STOCK. 

Stock, as the word implies, is something that has 
been prepared and is ready for use at any time the 
demand may be made for it, which is very often, if 
many palatable sauces are used. It is prepared by 
cooking bones, meat and vegetables in water, till all 
the juice has been extracted, and then strained and 
put away. Vegetables sour quickly, so if the stock 
is to be kept some little time, it is best not to use 
them. It keeps longer when the fat on the top is 
not broken, and bringing to a boil every day keeps 
it from spoiling as quickly. It is better to make it 
in small quantities, than to risk keeping it over three 
days, unless the weather is very cold. You may use 
as many, or as few of the ingredients called for as 
you please, and bits of egg or apples may be added. 

White stock is made with veal or poultry. 

In cooking the stock, the meat and bones should 
always be soaked for an hour in cold water, to draw 
out the juice, then brought slowly to a boil, and 
simmered until the meat is in shreds, seven' to eight 
hours. Never skim the top of the water as the soup 
boils, and the particles rise, for it is the albumen of 
the meat, and if the meat and bones have been 
wiped and the pot and water are clean, why take out 
and throw away what you want in the soup ? Keep 
the kettle closely covered, that the flavor may be 



66 THE YOUNG COOK S GUIDE. 

kept, and the stock not boil away in steam. If pos- 
sible prepare the day before, that it may stand till 
the fat is hard. You may use any combination of 
mutton, veal, poultry or beef, as you have them, but 
when purchasing meat for stock, buy the kind stated 
in the recipe. The meat and vegetables that have 
been used for making the stock are worthless ; and 
as all the nutriment has been drawn out by long 
continued cooking they can only be 'thrown away. 
Always have some fat in the stock ; it melts, and 
when cold will serve to seal it and keep it from 
spoiling. The herbs and spices should always be 
whole, and the vegetables, meat and bones in small 
pieces. Some of the meats should always be broiled, 
roasted, or fried, before using for soup, as the pecul- 
iar flavor developed in that kind of cooking is called 
osmazome, and is needed in soup. If you have no 
pieces of roasted, broiled or fried meat, dredge half 
the raw meat with salt, pepper and flour, and fry in 
some of the fat till brown. Rinse out the frying pan 
with hot water, that you may get all the brown off 
it, and add to the soup. 

TO CLARIFY SOUP. 

The stock should be made the day before, and if 
it cannot be, you can remove the fat by skimming 
off with a spoon, and laying brown paper on the top 
to absorb the remainder of the fat. You cannot 
clarify hot stock. Allow the fat to harden over 
night, then it can be removed in a cake from the 
top ; and wipe the edges of the bowl and the top of 
the stock with a bit of cheese cloth dipped in hot 
water. Every particle of fat must be removed at 



SOUP. 



6j 



this time, as it will float when the soup is served. 
Add to the cold stock the whites and shells of raw 
eggs, allowing one ^^^ for one quart of stock ; beat 
well, set over the fire and bring to a boil slowly ; 
simmer 20 minutes without stirring. Wring a nap- 
kin out of hot water, put it over a coarse sieve, then 
a fine strainer over the napkin to catch the shells 
and ^^^. Let it drain through this, but do not 
squeeze the napkin. The stock is then ready to use 
for any clear soup and should be brought to the 
boiling point, and anything added to it that you 
desire. 

Clear soups are not as nutritious as others, and 
for family use a soup should never be clarified. 

Purees and thick soups should always have the 
flour and butter cooked together, and the liquid 
added gradually, that the ingredients may not sep- 
arate, as one sometimes sees in pea soup, when the 
peas and water are very distinct. 



SOUP STOCK. 



1 lb. marrow bone, 

2 qts. cold water, 
I sprig thyme. 



I majoram, 

I " summer savory, 

I " sage, 

I '' parsley, 

I " celery, 

Wipe and cut the meat and bones into small 

pieces. Put bones, half the meat, water, spices and 

herbs into the kettle. Let stand half an hour. 

Dredge the rest of the meat with pepper, salt, flour, 



1 lb. shin beef, 
6 whole cloves, 
6 peppercorns, 

2 tsp. salt, 
I small onion, 
\ " carrot, 
\ " turnip, 
\ leaf cabbage. 



68 THE YOUNG COOK'S GUIDE. 

and fry till brown in a little hot drippings. Put the 
fried meat into the kettle, fry the vegetables (cut 
fine), put them into the kettle. Bring to a boil slow- 
ly ; boil 10 minutes; do not skim; simmer 6 or 7 
hours and strain. Set aside till cold ; when needed 
for soup, remove the fat, heat and season to taste. 

LEFT-OVER SOUP. 

Put in a kettle any bones that have been left from 
roast beef, steak, or chops, any pieces of meat cut 
fine, cover with cold water. To 2 qts. of water add 
the same seasoning as for soup stock. Simmer tilt 
the meat is in shreds, strain, when cold remove the 
fat. Bring to the boiling point and add any small 
pieces of cooked vegetables that have been left over, 
as peas, beans, tomatoes, turnips, potatoes or rice. 

MACARONI SOUP. 

Break the macaroni into half-inch pieces, cook in 
boiling salted water about half an hour. Drain the 
macaroni and add to boiling stock, allowing i c. 
macaroni to i qt. stock. Season with salt and pep- 
per. 

VEGETABLE SOUP. 

I qt. stock, -J c. carrot, -J- c. turnip, i c. potato, J 
c. celery. 

Wash and pare the turnip and potato, scrape the 
carrot and celery. Cut into quarter-inch dice and 
cook in boiling salted water till tender. Drain and 
add to the boiling stock. Season with salt and pep- 
per. 



SOUP. 69 

TOMATO SOUP. 

I qt. tomatoes. 2 whole cloves. 

1 pt. stock. I tsp. salt. 

2 tbsp. flour. -J " sugar. 

3 " butter. I sprig parsley. 

2 peppercorns. -J onion. 

Boil the tomatoes, stock and seasoning ten min- 
utes. Cook the butter and flour till smooth and 
frothy, add the soup gradually. Strain through a 
fine sieve. Season with salt and pepper. You may 
use water if you have not stock. 

SPLIT PEA SOUP. 

•J c. dried split peas. ^ tsp. sugar. 

3 c. cold water. -J " salt. 

i tbsp. butter. i ssp. white pepper. 

i '' flour. Milk. 

I stalk celery. i sprig parsley. 

I slice onion. 
Pick over and wash the peas. Soak in the cold 
water 2 h. Put on the fire, add the onion, celery 
and parsley, and simmer 2 h. Mash through a fine 
strainer, return to the fire. Cook the flour and the 
butter till smooth, add the strained soup gradually, 
then the milk and seasoning. It may be made with- 
out soaking the peas. 

POTATO SOUP. 

3 medium sized potatoes. -J ssp. white pepper. 

i-J c. milk. -J tbsp. flour, 

ij- c. hot water. f '' butter. 

I tsp. chopped onion. i stalk celery. 

I ** salt. I sprig parsley. 



/O THE YOUN'G COOK S GUIDE. 

Wash, pare and cook the potatoes till soft. Cook 
the milk, water, parsley, celery and onion in a double 
boiler 15 m. When the potatoes are done, drain 
and mash, add the hot milk gradually ; cook the 
butter and flour till smooth and frothy, add the hot 
soup slowly, stirring constantly, then the salt and 
pepper. 

MOCK BISQUE. 

I pt. tomato. I tbsp. butter. 

I pt. milk. 2 tsp. cornstarch. 

■J small onion. -J tsp. soda. i bay leaf. 

Boil the tomato, onion and bay leaf 15 m., add the 
soda, boil 5 m. longer ; heat the milk ; cook the flour 
and cornstarch till smooth and frothy, add the to- 
mato slowly, stirring well. ]\Iash through a fine 
strainer and add to the hot milk. Add salt and pep- 
per to taste and serve at once. Do not boil after 
adding the milk. You may add i c. whipped cream 
just before serving. 

CONSOMME. 

2 lbs. shin beef. 4 qts. cold water. 

2 " marrow bone. 2 oz. lean ham. 
4 '' knuckle of veal. 6 cloves. 

I tbsp. salt. 6 peppercorns. 

3 " chopped onion. i sprig parsley. 
3 " '' carrot. i " thyme. 

3 " " turnip. I " summer savory. 

3 " " celery. 2 bay leaves. 

4 " ** suet. I sage leaf. 

5 allspice berries. i in. stick cinnamon. 
White and shells of 2 eggs, i blade mace. 

I ssp. celery seed. Rind and juice i lemon. 



SOUP. 71 

Proceed as for soup stock, using the suet to fry the 
meat, vegetables and ham in. When cold, remove 
every particle of fat, beat the whites of the eggs 
light, add them to the stock with the rind and juice 
of the lemon and the celery seed ; bring slowly to 
the boiling point, then let it simmer for -J h. Strain 
through a napkin dipped in hot water. 

BOUILLON. 

4 lbs. clear beef from the round. Whites 2 eggs. 
2 qts. cold water. 6 peppercorns. 

2 tbsp. onion. 3 cloves. 

2 '^ turnip. I in. stick cinnamon. 

2 " celery. i-J- tbsp. salt. 

I bay leaf. i sprig parsley. 

I sage leaf. • i " thyme. 

I sprig summer savory. 
Proceed the same as for Consomme. 
JULIENNE SOUP. 
I qt. clear stock. ^ c. celery. 

^ c. carrot. ^ c. lettuce. 

J c. turnip. -J- c. peas. 

Cut the vegetables into fine, thin strips, and cook 
in boiling, salted water, till tender. Shred the let- 
tuce very fine and cook in boiling water 10 m. 
Drain the vegetables and the lettuce and add to the 
hot stock. Season if necessary. 

CREAM OF ASPARAGUS. 
I can asparagus. 2 tbsp. butter. 

I pt. white stock. i '' onion. 

I " cream or milk. 2 '' flour. 

■J tsp. white pepper. i tsp. sugar. 

i^ tsp salt. 



72 THE YOUNG COOK'S GUIDE. 

Cut off the heads of asparagus. Cut up stalks, 
simmer in the stock ^ h. Fry the onion in the but- 
ter till yellow, add the flour, add the stock slowly, 
simmer lo m. Put through a fine sieve, add cream, 
salt, pepper, sugar, and when nearly boiling add 
heads of asparagus. Do not boil after adding the 
cream or it will curdle. 

VELVET SOUP. 

I qt. chicken stock. i stalk celery. 

f c. large white bread crumbs, i blade mace. 

I clove. 1 in. stick cinnamon. 

r bay leaf. i slice carrot. 

I sprig parsley. ^ onion. 

i c. almonds. i tbsp. salt. 

i c. chicken breast. i|- c. cream. 

I tbsp. flour. I tbsp. butter. 

Cook stock, crumbs, celery, mace, cinnamon, bay 
leaf, parsley, onion, carrot, and salt i h. Pound the 
chicken breast and almonds to a paste, add to the 
stock, cook 5 m. Mash through a fine sieve, add 
the hot cream. Cook the flour and butter, add the 
stock slowly, stirring well ; season with pepper and 
salt if needed. 

OYSTER SOUP. 

I qt. oysters. 2 tbsp. cornstarch. 

I pt. milk (hot). I ssp. white pepper. 

I tbsp. butter. i small blade mace. 

Wash the oysters in i c. cold water ; add this to 

the oyster liquor and strain ; put the liquor and the 

mace on to boil. Remove the scum, add the oysters, 

cook about two minutes, until they are ruffled and 



SOUP. 73 

plump. Cook the flour and cornstarch till smooth 
and frothy, add the hot milk slowly, stirring hard ; 
boil 5 m., add the oysters, salt if needed. Remove 
the mace and serve at once. 

CLAM SOUP. 

25 clams. 2 tbsp. butter. 

I pt. milk, scalded. i dozen crackers. 

I pt. water. i inch blade of mace. 

Salt and pepper. -J tbsp. flour. 

Drain the clams and put the liquor on to boil with 
the mace ; chop the clams. Skim the liquor as it 
boils ; when it has boiled 5 m. add the clams and wa- 
ter and boil 5 m. Cook the flour in the butter, add 
the milk gradually, stirring well ; remove the mace, 
add the clams to the milk, but do not let it boil, or 
it will curdle. Season with salt and pepper and 
serve at once. 

CLAM CHOWDER. 

25 clams. 3 water biscuits. 

i lb. veal. -J- tsp. ea. thyme and majoram. 

J lb. bacon. -J tsp. chopped parsley. 

2 potatoes. I c. stewed tomatoes. 

I c. water. ^ tbsp. flour. 

I c. milk. -J " butter. 

Cut the bacon, veal and potatoes into dice. Chop 
the onion fine. If the clams are small leave them 
whole, but if large cut in pieces. Put the bacon in 
the pot first, a sprinkling of herbs, a little salt and 
pepper, then veal, tomato and clams. Continue till 
all is used. Add the boiling water, cover, and sim- 
mer 30 m. Heat the milk, cook the butter and flour 



74 THE YOUNG COOK S GUIDE. 

till smooth, add the hot milk gradually, stirring well; 
then stir this into the clams, break up the crackers 
and season with salt and pepper and serve at once. 
Do not boil after adding the milk. 

BISQUE OF LOBSTER. 

2-J- lbs. lobster with coral, i c. stale white br'd crumbs, 

f pt. white stock. -J tbsp. salt. 

I pt. cream. -J- " flour. 

I stalk celery. ij " butter. 

I small slice onion. i sprig parsley. 

I ^' blade mace. i bay leaf. 

I spk. nutmeg. J tsp. white pepper. 
•| c. bits of meat from the claws. 

Chop the meat fine as meal, put into a saucepan 
with half the stock ; pound the lobster coral with -J 
the butter, add this to the stock ; tie the onion, mace, 
parsley and bay leaf in a small bag, add to the stock 
and simmer i h. Put the rest of the stock and the 
bread in a double boiler, simmer -J h. Scald the cream. 
Strain all the stock through a fine sieve, cook the 
other half of the flour and butter till smooth, add the 
strained mixture and the seasoning, strain, add the 
cream and bits of meat. Do not boil after the cream 
is added. 

PUREE OF SALMON. 

I pt. milk. I sprig parsley. 

I slice onion. -J- tsp. salt, 

i tbsp. butter. ■§■ " white pepper. 

i '' flour. I spk. cayenne. 

•J c. cooked salmon. i '' nutmeg. 



SOUP. 75 

Cook the milk, onion and parsley in a double boil- 
er 10 m. Free the salmon from oil and bones and 
flake it. Cook butter and flour till smooth and 
frothy, add milk gradually, stirring well, then salmon, 
seasoning, strain and serve. Do not boil after the 
salmon is added. 



FISH. 

Fish is a wholesome, valuable article of food. It 
contains a large amount of nitrogeneous material 
and is rich in phosphorus. 

The red-blooded fish, such as salmon, bluefish, 
mackerel, are the richest, and have the oil distributed 
through the body, and are therefore more indigest- 
ible, and should never be given to invalids or per- 
sons of weak digestion. 

The white varieties, such as cod, halibut, flounder, 
have the oil stored in the liver, as cod liver oil, and 
are more easily digested, but should be served or 
cooked with some kind of fat to be palatable. 
Sauces will contain the palatable proportions needed. 

Fish should always be perfectly fresh and well 
cooked or it is unfit to eat. Fresh fish will have the 
flesh firm and hard, the eyes full and rounded, the 
gills red. Do not buy any other. It should be 
cleaned at once, wiped out with a damp cloth and 
never salted until just before cooking, or you will 
draw out the juices. Lay in a cold place till needed, 
but do not let the ice touch it, and put it away from 
the butter or milk. Good fishermen* say that fresh 
water fish should be cooked as soon as they come 
from the water, but salt water fish are improved by 
keeping a few hours before cooking. Fillets of fish 
are long, thin slices, or pieces of fiesh with no bones. 
Flat fish, like flounder, make the best fillets, although 
you can cut other fish into thin slices. Frozen fish 
should be laid in cold water till thawed. 

76 



FISH. JJ 

TO CLEAN A FISH. 

Remove the scales before opening, scraping with 
a knife from the tail towards the head. Sprinkle 
the hand with a little salt and the fish will not slip. 
Work slowly, so that the scales may not fly, and dip 
the knife often in cold water. Do not cut off the 
head and tail if the fish is to be served whole. Cut 
on the under side, from the gills down, making an 
opening only large enough to remove the entrails ; 
remove all the blood and wipe out with a damp cloth. 
Rub the inside with salt just before cooking. 

BAKED FISH. (Whole.) 

Do not cut off the head or tail. Remove the 
scales by scraping with a small, sharp knife, begin- 
ning at the tail and going towards the head. Cut 
off the fins with a pair of scissors. Make an in- 
cision from the gills, half way down the lower part 
of the body ; remove the entrails and scrape out 
the blood and white part adhering to the back 
bone. Wipe out with a cloth wet in salt water 
and dry thoroughly. Sprinkle the inside with salt, 
stuff and sew up with coarse darning cotton. Cut 
gashes two inches apart on each side. Wind a little 
cotton around the head that the stuffing may not 
come out. Dredge with salt, pepper and flour. 
Rub the baking pan with fat salt pork and put small 
pieces under and over the fish. You may skewer it 
like a letter S, or a circle. Bake in a hot oven with 
no water in the pan ; baste every lo m. When done, 
remove the fish to a hot platter, using a pancake 
turner to lift it with ; lift the head a little to draw 



78 THE YOUNG COOK'S GUIDE. 

out the cotton, untie the head and remove the^ 
skewers. Make a bed of parsley round it, decorate 
with fancy pieces of lemon. 

STUFFING FOR BAKED FISH. (5 Ibs.) 
I c. cracker or bread crumbs, i tsp. chopped parsley. 
I ssp. salt. I " '' onion. 

I '' pepper. i " " pickles, 

i c. melted butter. J " lemon juice. 

If you prefer a moist stuffing wet with a little cold 
water. 

BOILED FISH. 
Wipe the fish and tie up in a cloth. Put i tbsp. 
salt into a pot of boiling water, put the fish in on a 
plate, let simmer till done. 

BROILED FISH. 
Fish weighing from f lb. to 4 lb. are the best for 
broiling. Split the larger ones down the back and 
remove the back bone, head and tail. Sprinkle with 
salt and pepper ; rub dry fish with soft butter. 
Grease the double broiler with fat salt pork. Put the 
thickest part of the fish in the middle of the broiler 
and broil the flesh side first. The thickness of the 
fish must be the guide as to time. Turn every 10 s. 
and serve on hot platter, 

FRIED FISH. 

Small fish, such as smelts, weak fish, porgies, etc., 
are best fried ; also, slices of cod, halibut, haddock. 
Do not remove the heads and tails from the small 
fish. Clean, wipe and dry the fish, dredge with salt 
and pepper, roll in fine sifted bread crumbs, egg and 



FISH. 79 

crumbs, and saute in frying pan with a little cottolene, 
browning first one side and then the other, or plunge 
in deep, hot cottolene. 

FISH BALLS. 

1 c. raw salt fish. i egg, well beaten. 

2 c. raw potatoes. J ssp. white pepper. 
I tsp. butter. spk. cayenne. 

Salt, if needed. Dash of nutmeg. 

Shred the fish. Pare and quarter the potatoes. 
Cook the fish and potatoes in boiling water till the 
potatoes are done. Drain very dry ; mash and beat 
the fish and potatoes till very light, add the butter 
and seasoning ; beat well ; add the egg. Drop a few 
at a time into hot cottolene. 

FRIED SMELTS. 
Clean them by pressing out the contents through 
an opening under the gills. Wash quickly, dry 
thoroughly ; dredge with salt and pepper. Make 
them into circles by putting the tail through the 
eyes, or run two wooden toothpicks through two or 
three, having the heads all one way. Cover with 
bread crumbs, egg and crumbs, and fry in hot cotto- 
lene. Serve on the skewers with tartar sauce. 

FRIED CODFISH. 
Cut into small pieces for serving, skewering the 
little bits into shape ; salt and pepper each piece 
on both sides, squeeze a few drops of lemon on each 
piece, roll in fine bread crumbs, egg and crumbs, and 
fry in hot cottolene. Serve wuth tartar or Worcester- 
shire sauce. 



8o THE YOUNG COOK'S GUIDE. 

CREAMED OR PICKED UP SALT FISH. 

Shred the fish and put on in cold water, boil slowly 
20 m.; drain, taste it, and if too salt put on in cold 
water again and bring to a boil, and throw off that 
water. This may be done hours before, using 2 c. 
white sauce, i c. cooked fish, i c. cold boiled potato 
cubes, I ssp. white pepper, i tbsp. chopped parsley, 
I hard boiled egg. Make the sauce, add the fish, 
beat well, add the potato, stir carefully ; serve on 
rounds of toast, decorated with the parsley and 
chopped egg. 

SCALLOPED FISH. 

Any remnants of cold, boiled or baked fish. Pick 
into small pieces, season with salt and pepper, and i 
tsp. lemon juice to i c. fish. Put into a shallow bak- 
ing dish a layer of fish, then a little stuffing (if you 
have any left), then a layer of sauce. You can use 
white sauce if you have none left over. Cover with 
coarse white bread crumbs, seasoned with a shake 
of salt and pepper and i tbsp, of melted butter to i 
c. crumbs. Toss them with a fork as you pour the 
butter over them. Bake in the oven till crumbs are 
brown. 

FISH AU GRATIN. 
Skin the fish, cut off head, tail ; split down the 
back, remove the back bone. Put on a buttered 
baking sheet that will fit loosely in a large baking 
pan. Season with salt and pepper. Prepare the 
sauce as follows : i pt. stock, 2 tbsp. flour, 2 tbsp. 
butter, I tbsp. minced onion, i tbsp. chopped pickles, 
I tbsp. chopped capers, i tbsp. lemon juice, i tbsp. 
chopped olives, i tbsp. chopped parsley, ^ tsp. salt, 



FISH. 8l 

■J ssp. pepper. Heat the stock, cook the onion in 
the butter till light yellow, add the dry flour, then 
the hot stock slowly, beating hard, then the salt, 
pepper, and lemon juice, lastly the chopped ingredi- 
ents. Cover the fish with the sauce, cover all with 
buttered bread crumbs (i tbsp. melted butter to i 
c. crumbs), and bake about 25 m., taking care not to 
have the crumbs too brown. 

FISH AU GRATIN NO. 2. 

Flake any cold cooked fish, put a layer on a plat- 
ter, cover with white sauce, then another layer of 
fish and sauce. Cover the top with buttered crumbs. 
Bake till the crumbs are delicate brown. 

BLANQUETTE OF SALMON. 

■| can or -J lb. of cold boiled salmon, i c. white 
sauce, I tsp. lemon juice, spk. cayenne, ^ tsp. onion 
juice. Free the salmon from oil and bones, pick 
very fine ; put into the white sauce with the season- 
ing, serve hot in potato border, or in shells covered 
with buttered bread crumbs and browned in the oven. 

FISH SOUFFLE. 

Make the same as fish balls ; use the yolks of two 
eggs well beaten, lastly the whites, beaten stiff and 
cut in lightly. Bake in a buttered dish 20 m. 

TURBAN OF FLOUNDER. 
4 fillets of flounder. i egg. 

2 tbsp. butter. 2 tbsp. chopped parsley. 

Discs of cold boiled beets. Bread crumbs. 

Salt and pepper each fillet, dip in the melted but- 



82 THE YOUNG COOK'S GUIDE. 

ter, roll up and fasten with a wooden toothpick. 
Dip in crumbs, egg and crumbs, and fry in hot cotto- 
lene. Arrange in a circle on a platter, place a disc 
of beet on the top of each turban, and sprinkle with 
chopped parsley. Serve with Romoulade sauce in 
the centre of the dish. 

TURBANS OF FISH WITH OYSTERS. 
4 fillets of flounder. i tsp. salt. 

12 oysters. 3 tbsp. butter. 

I pt. fine bread crumbs. ^ tsp. cayenne. 

1 spk. nutmeg. i tsp. chopped parsley. 
Yolks 2 eggs. I tbsp. lemon juice. 

Drain and chop the oysters very fine, add the 
crumbs, seasoning, butter, and pound to a paste ; 
add the yolks, and if needed, two tablespoonfuls of 
oyster liquor. It should now be a paste moist enough 
to spread. Salt and pepper the fillets, spread with 
the paste, roll up, fasten with a wooden toothpick, 
roll and spread again with the mixture, then in 
crumbs, egg and crumbs, and fry in hot cottolene. 
Serve with Bechamel sauce. 

OYSTER BALLS. 
12 oysters. i tbsp. lemon juice. 

2 c. fine bread crumbs. 3 " butter, melted. 
I spk. nutmeg. i tsp. salt. 

Yolks 2 eggs. I ** chopped parsley. 

■J tsp. cayenne. 
Drain the oysters and chop very fine. Add the 
eggs and enough oyster liquor to form into balls. 
Roll the balls in crumbs, egg and crumbs, and fry in 
hot cottolene. 



FISH. 83 

SALMON TIMBALES. 

-^ lb. salmon, canned. -J c. white bread crumbs. 

3 tbsp. butter. i c. cream. 

li tsp. salt. Spk. nutmeg. 

^ " pepper. 3 eggs, beaten separately. 

Free the salmon from oil and bones and shred it 
very fine. Cook the bread and cream in the double 
boiler fifteen minutes, add the butter, stir well, then 
the salmon, then the yolks, seasoning, and mush- 
rooms. Beat the whites stiff and beat them in 
gently. Put in buttered timbale molds stood in a 
pan of hot water, bake three-quarters of an hour. 
Cover them while baking with buttered paper. Serve 
with lobster sauce. These are very delicious. 



SHELL FISH. 

OYSTERS. 
Oysters are mostly composed of water, contain 
but little nutriment in proportion to the cost. They 
are easily digested when slightly cooked, but are 
tough and ver\' unwholesome when overdone. They 
are mostly used as a relish for an invalid rather than 
a nutritious food. During the summer they are soft 
and unhealthy, and should be eaten only in the 
cooler months. 

TO PREPARE OYSTERS FOR COOKING. 

Wash the oysters separately by dipping quickly 
into cold water, passing the fingers over them that 
there may be no shell. If for frying or broiling, sea- 
son with a little salt and pepper and let stand 15 m. 
before cooking. 

R.\^V OYSTERS. 

The small, fat Blue Points are the best for serv^ing 
raw They should be kept on ice till ready to serve. 
Open the shells just before serving, remove half the 
shell and detach the oyster from the other half. Sea- 
son with a very little salt and pepper and serve with 
pieces of lemon. You can hollow out a cavity in a 
block of ice by using hot irons : lay a few ferns and 
bright flowers on the sides of the cavity and put the 
oysters in. The ice may be laid in a napkin on a 
large platter and the base surrounded by flowers and 
ferns. , 

84 



SHELL FISH. 85 

FRIED OYSTERS. 

Dip prepared oysters in crumbs, egg and crumbs, 
and fry in hot cottolene. Serve with lemon. 

BROILED OYSTERS. 
Prepare the oysters, dip in melted butter, put in 
a fine greased broiler and broil till plump and the 
juice flows. 

CREAMED OYSTERS. 
I pt. oysters, i pt. milk or cream, 2 tbsp. butter, 
2 tbsp. flour, -J- tsp. salt, ^ ssp. white pepper, i blade 
mace, i slice onion, i ssp. celery salt, spk. cayenne. 
Heat the milk with the onion and mace, cook the 
flour and butter till smooth and frothy ; remove 
the mace and onion from the milk, add the milk 
slowly, stirring hard, then the seasoning. Cook the 
oysters in their own liquor, drain, and add to the 
sauce. Add more salt and pepper if needed. 

FRICASSEED OYSTERS. 
Cook I pt. of oysters in hot butter till plump. 
Drain and keep the oysters hot. Measure the liquor 
left after cooking them in the butter, and add enough 
cream or milk to this to make i c. in all. Cook i 
tbsp. flour in i tbsp. butter, add the hot cream slowly. 
Season with i tsp. lemon juice, salt and pepper to 
taste, and spk. cayenne. Add i well-beaten egg, i 
tbsp. chopped parsley, and the oysters. Heat i m., 
serve on toast or in patty cases. 

SCALLOPED OYSTERS. 

Put into a buttered baking dish a layer of butter- 
ed cracker crumbs, allowing i tbsp. melted butter to 
5 



86 THE YOUNG COOK'S GUIDE. 

I c. crumbs, then a layer of oysters ; sprinkle with 
a little salt, pepper and a very little mace, then an- 
other layer of crumbs, then oysters, and last crumbs. 
Bake about 20 m. in a hot oven. 

HUITRE A LA DAUPHINE. 

Prepare the oysters for frying. Make i c. hot to- 
mato sauce, and small pieces of toast. Fry the 
oysters, lay on the toast, and pour the sauce over 
them. Serve at once. Or you may pour the sauce 
around them. 

LITTLE PIGS IN BLANKETS. 
Prepare the oysters and season with salt, pepper 
and a few drops of lemon juice. Wrap each oyster 
in a very thin slice of bacon just large enough to 
cover, skewer up with ^ wooden toothpick, fry in 
hot pan with no fat, till the bacon is crisp. Serve 
on toast. 

LOBSTER. 

It is best to buy the lobster alive, and cook it 
yourself ; then there is no doubt that it is freshly 
boiled. It should be boiled within eighteen hours 
of using. If purchased already cooked, draw back 
the tail ; if it springs into position again, it is safe to 
think the fish is good. 

TO SELECT A LOBSTER. 
Choose one of medium size, heavy in proportion, 
hard, solid shell streaked with black. 

TO BOIL A LOBSTER. 
Have a pot of boiling water with i tbsp. salt in it, 
plunge the lobster in head first. This kills it instant- 



SHELL FISH. 8/ 

ly and Is less cruel than to put in cold water and 
bring to a boil. Boil 20 m. If boiled longer it tough- 
ens the meat. Remove at once from the water and 
set aside to cool. 

TO OPEN A LOBSTER. 
Break off all the claws, separate the tail from the 
body, remove the body from the shell, saving the 
green liver and the coral. Cut very carefully the thin 
shell on the under part of the tail, bend open slight- 
ly and remove the meat in one piece by taking a 
firm hold at the larger end of the tail and drawing 
it out. Separate this meat carefully down the mid- 
dle and you will find a very thin vein running the 
entire length. Remove this without breaking, as it 
is the intestinal canal. This is sometimes dark col- 
ored and sometimes the color of the meat. Split the 
body and pick out the bits of meat, rejecting the 
spongy substances. Hammer the shells of the large 
claws on the edge, and remove the meat. Pick out 
all the bits of meat from the small claws. Clean and 
wash the shells and save a few of the small claws for 
garnishing. 

CREAMED LOBSTER. 
Allow I c. lobster meat to i c. white or cream 
sauce. Make the sauce, add the lobster meat, add 
I tsp. lemon juice, spk. cayenne. 

DEVILED LOBSTER. 

Season i c. lobster meat cut fine, with salt, pep- 
per, mustard, cayenne, onion juice, chopped parsley 
and Worcestershire sauce. Mix with ^ c. cream 
sauce. Put into the shell, cover with -J c. cracker 



88 THE YOUNG COOK'S GUIDE. 

crumbs moistened with i tbsp. melted butter. Bake 
about 15 m. 

LOBSTER CUTLETS OR CROQUETTES. 

I pt. lobster meat minced very fine, i c. thick 
cream sauce, i ssp. mustard, few drops onion juice, 
I tsp. lemon juice, spk. cayenne. Make the sauce, 
add the meat and seasoning ; beat well, spread out 
on a buttered platter i in. thick. When cool, shape 
into croquettes or cut into cutlets. If you have a 
cutlet mold, butter the mold, sprinkle with crumbs, 
press the lobster in, turn out on a well crumbed 
board, lay in egg and crumbs and fry. Put part of 
a small claw in small end of each. Roll the cro- 
quettes in crumbs, Qgg and crumbs, and fry in hot 
cottolene. 

SCALLOPS. 

Only the muscular part which unites the shell is 
eaten. They may be stewed like oysters or fried. 

FRIED SCALLOPS. 

Sprinkle with salt and pepper, roll in crumbs, egg 
and crumbs, and fry in hot cottolene. They are de- 
licious served with Mayonnaise. 

CRABS. 

Crabs, like lobsters, are only fit to use when cook- 
ed alive. Choose the heavy medium-sized ones. 
When the crab loses its shell it is called a soft-shell 
crab, and as the shell forms in three days they are 
scarce and expensive. 



SHELL FISH. 89 

TO BOIL CRABS. 

Put head first into boiling salted water and boil 
15 m. Remove the outside shell and the spongy- 
substance, taking care that the under part is free 
from sand. Serve them in the shells. 

SOFT SHELL CRABS. 

They should be alive and freshly caught. Remove 
the sand bags and spongy substance, wash and dry 
thoroughly ; season with salt and pepper and dip in 
seasoned crumbs, egg and crumbs, and fry in hot 
cottolene. 

DEVILED CRA'BS. 

Boil the crabs 15 m. Pick the meat from the 
shells, taking care not to use the spongy substance 
or the stomach, which lies in the head. Mince the 
meat very fine, and to one cup of meat add one cup 
of thick cream sauce for croquettes. Beat thorough- 
ly and season highly with cayenne, mustard and 
lemon juice. Fill the shells, cover with buttered 
crumbs, bake 10 m. 

BROILED CRABS. 

Clean the crabs, season with salt and cayenne, 
boil one minute. Take up and broil over a hot fire 
eight to ten minutes. 



MEAT. 

Beef, mutton, lamb, veal, and pork are classed un- 
der this head, and with regard to their nutritive qual- 
ities stand in the above order. 

BEEF. 

Good beef should have firm, fine grained flesh, yel- 
lowish white fat, and when first cut should be dark 
red, changing to bright red in a few moments, and 
have a juicy appearance. The suet should be dry 
and crumble easily. The most expensive pieces of 
beef are from the ribs, sirloin, rump, and round. 
These cuts contain the most tender fibres of the 
meat, and are best adapted to rapid cooking, such 
as roasting and broiling. Cheaper cuts come from 
the shoulder, neck, flank, brisket and shin, and as 
the fibres are tougher they require slow and long 
continued cooking, by which the fibres are softened, 
the meat made tender and nutritious, and the juices 
drawn out. Wherever there is motion the juices 
flow ; consequently we find the neck a very juicy 
part, while the tenderloin being a little cushion on 
which the ribs rest, and free from motion, has very 
little juice. Around the tail, where the rump and 
round lie, and the shin, which is near the foot, the 
meat is juicy; the rump and round tender; the shin 
meat tough, but containing a great deal of juice that 
can be drawn out into soups. Remove from the 
paper as soon as it comes, as it draws out the juices. 

90 



MEAT. 91 

ROAST BEEF. 
Wipe with a wet cloth, lay the meat on a rack in 
the pan, dredge all over with salt, pepper and flour. 
Put small pieces of suet on top of the meat and in 
the pan. Place in the hottest part of a hot oven 
10 minutes. Do not put any water in the pan at 
first, as it reduces the temperature, and you want to 
set the outside of the meat so that the juices may 
be in the meat. Salt draws out the juices, the flour 
makes a paste, and the heat forms a crust. Never 
pierce the crust with a fork but turn and lift with a 
spoon carefully. After 10 m. reduce the heat 
if it is likely to burn, and if on the bottom of the 
oven, place a pan under, that the fat may not burn. 
Baste often, and if necessary you may add a little 
hot water, but basting with the fat gives the most 
delicious roast. Dredge with flour and salt once 
during the cooking. 

GRAVY. 

Remove the meat and rack from the pan, pour off 
nearly all the fat, dredge in flour, cook till brown ; 
add hot water gradually, stir well, season with salt 
and pepper, simmer 5 m., strain. 

FRANCONIA POTATOES. 
Wash, scrub and pare potatoes of even size. Put 
on the rack with the meat and baste when you baste 
the meat. 

YORKSHIRE PUDDING. 

3 eggs. i tsp. salt, 

f c. flour, (scant). 2 c. milk. 

Beat the eggs hard for two minutes ; add the salt 



92 THE YOUNG COOK'S GUIDE. 

and the milk, pour a little into the middle of the 
flour, beat till perfectly smooth, then add the re- 
mainder. Grease the gem pans, have them piping 
hot, fill two-thirds full and bake thirty-five minutes 
in a hot oven. Baste with the roast beef gravy 
when you baste the meat. 

BROILED STEAK. 

Trim off all unnecessary fat, put into a well 
greased broiler with the fat edge of the steak farthest 
from the fire. As it broils the fat will run down 
and baste the meat. Turn every lo seconds. Serve 
on hot platter. 

BROILED HAMBURGH STEAK. 

I lb. meat from rump or round chopped very fine. 
Proceed as for broiled steak. 

BEEF STEW WITH DUMPLINGS. 

i lb. beef, J c. carrot, 

i onion, i c. turnip, 

•J ssp. salt, - 2 potatoes, 

i tbsp. pepper. Water to cover." 

If you have any pieces from broiled, fried or roast 

beef, cut off the fat and use them ; if not reserve 

half the meat. Put the bones and half the meat in 

a kettle, cover with cold water. Melt the fat, dredge 

the other half of the meat with salt, pepper and 

flour, and fry till brown in the fat. Brown the 

onions, put meat and onions in the kettle and cover 

with boiling water. Simmer till the meat is tender, 

2 or 3 h. Half an hour before serving remove 

the fat and bones, add the turnips and carrots cut in 



MEAT. 93 

small dice, and the potatoes cut into quarters. 
When ready to serve, thicken with the flour mixed 
in a little cold water and stirred into the stew. Add 
seasoning and serve. If dumplings are made do not 
thicken it with the flour. 



DUMPLINGS. 

2 c. flour, 2 tsp. Cleveland's baking powder, 

i tsp. salt, I scant c. milk. 

Sift the flour, salt and baking-powder together, 
add the milk, stirring very little. Drop at once by 
the spoonfuls into the boiling stew. Cover closely 
and cook lo m. without removing the cover. 
Serve at once. 

CORNED BEEF. 

Always select a piece with some fat, and if very 
salt soak in cold water half an hour. Throw off this 
water and cover with fresh cold water ; when it boils 
skim and simmer till tender. If the beef is allowed 
to cool in the water in which it is boiled it will not 
be as dry. 

FILLET OF BEEF. 

Remove all the muscle, ligament and thin, tough 
skin. If not in good shape skewer with small steel 
or wooden skewers. Lard with two rows of pork. 
Dredge with salt, pepper and flour. Put in a small 
baking-pan with small pieces of pork under. Put in 
a hot oven and bake 20 to 30 m. Do not bake 
even a large fillet over 30 m. Serve with mush- 
room, hoUandaise or tomato sauce. 



94 THE YOUNG COOK S GUIDE. 

BEEF A LA MODE. 

4 to 6 lbs. beef from the under part of the round. 

3 tbsp. beef drippinp^s, 2 tbsp. vinegar, 

2 onions, I tbsp. lemon juice, 

•| carrot, I tbsp. salt, 

■J turnip, i tsp. pepper, 

2 cloves, I sq. inch stick cinnamon, 

6 allspice berries, i bay leaf, 

I sprig summer savory, i sprig thyme, 

I '' sage, I " majoram, 

4 tbsp. flour, I " parsley, 

■J- lb. fat salt pork. 

Cut the pork in thick strips and put in a larding 
needle and draw through the meat ; or you may 
make holes and push the pork into the meat. Cut 
the vegetables fine and cook till brown in the butter ; 
remove the vegetables ; dredge the meat with salt, 
pepper and flour, and brown on all sides in the fat 
in which the vegetables have been fried. Tie the 
herbs in a small piece of cheese cloth, add the water, 
herbs, spices, salt, pepper, vinegar and vegetables 
and simmer four hours, tightly covered. Take out 
the meat, skim off the fat and thicken the gravy with 
the flour mixed with a little cold water. This may 
be baked in the oven and should be kept closely 
covered, and basted occasionally. 

FRIZZLED BEEF. 

^ lb. smoked beef cut thin, 
2 eggs, yolks and whites, 
i tbsp. butter. 



MEAT. 95 

Put the beef in a frying-pan, cover it with cold 
water, bring to a boil and boil five minutes. Drain 
off all the water, put the pan on the fire, add the 
butter, stir well when melted, add the well beaten 
eggs and stir till the eggs are firm. Serve at once. 



MUTTON AND LAMB. 

Next to beef, mutton is the most nutritious meat 
and is very easily digested. Some persons dislike 
the strong flavor, but a little care in preparing will 
remove a portion of it. The pink skin on the edge 
of the fat on chops should be removed, and the thin 
fat that is generally wrapped round a leg should not 
be used. Both of these increase the strong taste. 

TO CHOOSE MUTTON. 

Select a piece from a large, heavy animal, with 
plenty of hard, white fat, and the flesh bright red. 

ROAST MUTTON. 

The leg, loin, or fore-quarter may be used as a 
roast. Remove all the pink fat, skewer the loin by 
having the rib bones cracked, and fold over, or you 
can remove the bones and roll up, with stuffing in- 
side or not. If the fore-quarter be used, remove the 
large bone, which is the shoulder blade, fill the cavity 
with stuffing and skewer into shape. This is a very 
economical and palatable roast. (See boned leg of 
lamb for stuffing.) 

BOILED MUTTON. 

Remove the fat, put into boiling water with 2 
tbsp. salt. Boil lo m., skim and simmer till the meat 
is tender. (See time-table for boiling, page 27.) 

96 



MUTTON AND LAMB. 97 

GRAVY FOR MUTTON. 

2 c. water in which the mutton was boiled, 2 tsp. 
flour, 2 tsp. vinegar, -J ssp. pepper, 2 tbsp. chopped 
parsley, i ssp. salt. Mix the flour with a little cold 
water, stir into the boiling water, boil 5 m., stirring 
well ; add parsley and seasoning. 

MUTTON OR LAMB CHOPS. (Broiled.) 

Wipe, remove the pink skin and extra fat. Put 
in a well greased broiler and broil over red, clear 
fire, turning every 10 seconds. Serve on hot dish. 

CHOPS. (Pan Broiled.) 

Wipe, remove the pink skin and extra fat. Heat 
a frying-pan very hot. Rub over once with a little 
fat, put in the chops, turn in i m., then turn every 2 
m. till done. Will take 5 m. Stand on the fat edge 
to brown the fat. Drain on brown paper, sprinkle 
with salt and pepper and serve hot. Do not allow 
any fat to melt in the pan ; drain off at once, or the 
chops will be fried instead of broiled. 

BREADED LAMB CHOPS WITH STUFFED TOMATOES. 

Select tender chops, i in. thick. Wipe, trim ofT 
all extra fat. Salt and pepper them. Cover with 
fine sifted bread crumbs. Lay on a rack in a bak- 
ing-pan. For each chop take one ripe, round to- 
mato. Cut a small circle off the opposite side to 
the stem. Scoop out a little of the tomato, fill the 
cavity with fine bread crumbs, seasoned with salt, 
pepper, sugar, a few drops of onion juice and a little 
melted butter. Cover with the circles cut off ; stand 



98 THE YOUNG COOK'S GUIDE. 

one tomato on each chop and bake in a hot oven 20 
to 30 m. Shield the tomatoes, if necessary, with 
greased paper. Decorate with sprigs of parsley. 
This is a very uncommon and delicious French dish. 

CHOPS EN PAPILLOTE. 

Use sheets of glazed white writing paper. But- 
ter them on the inside with a pastry brush dip- 
ped in melted butter. Wipe and trim the chops, 
season with salt and pepper, and wrap in the but- 
tered papers. Broil 5 or 6 m., taking care not to 
break or burn the paper, as this will let out the juice. 
Serve with tomato sauce, or you may prepare the 
following sauce : Cook i heaping tbsp. flour in i 
tbsp. butter, add slowly i c. boiling stock, ^ tbsp. 
minced mushrooms, -J tbsp. minced parsley, a little 
lemon juice, ^ ssp. salt, J ssp. pepper. Broil the 
chops in the buttered papers 3 m. Remove from 
the papers and lay in clean papers, covering with the 
sauce ; fold up and bake 10 m. in the oven. 

CROWN OF LAMB. 
Select a piece from the loin, containing only the 
rib bones. Have the butcher cut down between the 
ribs until you can turn the piece around in a circle, 
with the rib bones outside. Have the bones scraped 
of meat down to where the lean meat begins. Do 
not have the bones too long. Skewer into a circle, 
dredge with salt, pepper and flour, and bake in a hot 
oven, being careful not to burn the ends of the bones. 
You can protect them by laying greased paper over. 
Put a few pieces of fat under the rack and on top of 
the meat. Baste often. When done, trim the bones 



MUTTON AND LAMB. 99 

with a paper ruffle, and fill the circle in the centre 
with green peas, piling them up in a point, so that 
they may be seen above the meat. Make a gravy as 
for roast beef, or serve with currant jelly sauce. 

BONED LEG OF LAMB OR MUTTON. 
Remove the bone, salt it inside and put in the fol- 
lowing stuffing: Mix i c. cracker crumbs with i ssp. 
salt, thyme, pepper, i tbsp. chopped onion, i tbsp. 
chopped parsley, J c. melted butter. Sew up and 
dredge with salt, pepper, and flour. Put on a rack 
in a baking pan with small pieces of suet on the meat 
and in the pan. Cook in a hot oven about one h6ur 
for small leg, i-J hours for large one. Serve with 
currant jelly sauce. 

COTTAGE PIE. 

Chop any cold meat very fine. To one cup of 
meat add i ssp. salt, -J ssp. pepper, a few drops of 
onion juice, and -g- c. gravy or stock. Put meat, 
seasoning and gravy in a dish, cover with mashed 
potatoes and bake in the oven till brown. 

SCALLOPED MUTTON. 

Cut cold cooked mutton into thin pieces or cubes, 
removing all bone, fat and gristle. Season ^ c. fine 
bread crumbs with salt and pepper, put in bottom of 
a shallow baking dish, cover with meat, then boiled 
macaroni, and lastly add f c. tomato sauce. Pour 
I tbsp. melted butter over ^ c. fine bread crumbs, 
and spread over the top. Bake about 20 m. 

MINCED MEAT ON TOAST. 

Remove all fat, gristle and bone. Chop very fine. 
Put in a saucepan ^ c. gravy, J ssp. pepper, i ssp. 



100 THE YOUNG COOK'S GUIDE. 

salt, a few drops of onion juice. Add i c. chopped 
meat, and when hot serve on toast. 

SCOTCH BROTH. 
-J- c. barley. 2 tbsp. beef dripping. 

2 lbs. neck mutton. i '' flour. 

2 qts. cold water. 2 tsp. salt. 

I ssp. white pepper. i ssp. chopped parsley. 

-J c. each carrot, turnip, onion, celery. -Jc. tomato. 
Soak the barley several hours. Wipe the meat, 
remove the fat. Cut the meat into small cubes and 
put on with the barley in 3 pts. of cold water. As 
it boils skim off the fat. Put on the bones in i pt. 
cold water. Cut the vegetables into J inch dice, fry 
in half the drippings and add to the meat. Simmer 
until the meat is tender, about 3 h. Strain the 
water from the bones, cook the flour and the other 
half of the butter, add the strained water gradually, 
add the tomato, stir into the broth. Add salt, pepper 
and parsley. Simmer 10 m. 

MUTTON RECHAUFFE. 

I lb. cold mutton. i Qgg. 

I tbsp. butter. i tbsp. chopped onion. 

Yolk I egg. 2 " flour. 

Slice the cold meat or cut into small pieces. Make 
a sauce as follows : Cook the onion in the butter till 
light yellow, add the dry flour, add -J c. boiling water 
gradually, i ssp. salt, J ssp. pepper and the yolk of 
one Ggg. Pour out on a dish. Oil the bottom of a 
shallow dish. Spread the slices of the cold meat 
with this sauce, laying side first spread on the dish. 
Roll in crumbs, egg and crumbs, and fry in hot cot- 
tolene. 



VEAL. 

Veal should be thoroughly cooked, as at best it is 
very indigestible. The flesh should be pink, never 
white, and the fat white. It is best in the spring, 
and should always be well seasoned, as it has less 
flavor than other meats. 

ROAST VEAL. 

May be prepared as roast mutton. Make the 
stuffing moist by adding a little water. Use pieces 
of lard to lay on top and under the meat, and after 
the first half hour, you may add a little water to the 
pan, to use in basting. The gravy made from the 
baking pan, if nice and brown, is the most delicious. 

VEAL CUTLETS. 
A slice of veal from the breast or the leg may be 
cut into pieces for serving, putting the small pieces 
together with a small wooden toothpick." Salt and 
pepper them and roll in fine bread crumbs. You 
may saute them in a little fat or fry in deep, hot cot- 
tolene. Do not have the slices too thick, and cook 
till thoroughly done, allowing 5 m. for i inch thick. 

VEAL CUTLET A LA PROVENgALE. 

I tbsp. butter, ij c. stock, 

I '* chopped onion, i c. tomato sauce No. 2, 
6 minced mushrooms. Few drops lemon juice, 
J tsp. mace, Salt and pepper to taste, 

I bay leaf, i sprig thyme. 

lOI 



102 THE YOUNG COOK S GUIDE. 

Fry the onion and mushrooms in the butter, add 
bay leaf, thyme, mace and stock ; simmer 30 
m. Press through a sieve, add tomato sauce, 
lemon, salt and pepper, simmer 5 minutes. Roll the 
cutlets in crumbs, egg and crumbs, and fry in hot 
fat 5 minutes. Pour the sauce over them and serve. 

CASSEROLE OF MOCK SWEETBREADS. 
I lb. raw veal cut into -J inch cubes, cook in boil- 
ing salted water till tender with one slice of onion ; 
drain, and put into cold water to whiten. Make i c. 
white sauce, add to it i ssp. celery salt and pepper 
if needed. Heat over hot water 5 m. Re- 
move from the fire, and add quickly, i well beaten 
egg and i tsp. lemon juice. Serve in a border of 
rice or on toast. 

PORK. 
As pork is very unwholesome and indigestible, it 
should be very sparingly used, and never given to 
children or persons of weak digestion. It should 
never be used excepting in the winter, and then 
should be thoroughly cooked. The meat should be 
pale red, the fat white, the skin smooth and clear. 

ROAST PIG. 
The pig should be four or five weeks old. Clean, 
wash in cold water thoroughly, dry, stuff and sew up. 
Skewer the fore legs forward and the hind legs eith- 
er forward or backward whichever you prefer ; either 
way is used. Rub with butter, dredge w^th salt, 
pepper and flour, and put a little water in the pan 
and put in moderately hot oven, as it must be thor- 
oughly done. Baste often with butter in a little hot 



PORK. 103 

water, and after, with the dripping in the pan. 
Roast two and a half or three hours. When done, 
serve decorated with parsley or celery, with a piece 
of either in the mouth, or a small red apple. 

STUFFING. 
I c. bread crumbs, i tbsp. chopped parsley, i tsp. 
sage, I tsp. salt, J tsp. black pepper, i tbsp. onion 
juice ; mix all the ingredients together and moisten 
with I tbsp. butter in J c. hot water. 

ROAST PORK. 
Wipe, and dredge with salt, pepper and flour. 
Cook in a moderate oven, allowing twenty-five min- 
utes to every pound. Prepare the gravy the same 
as roast beef gravy and serve with apple sauce. 
Cold roast pork is very much better than hot. 

PORK CHOPS. 
Grease a hot frying-pan, salt and pepper the 
chops, lay in the pan and fry till brown. When 
done, pour off all the fat, shake a little flour in the 
pan, when brown add a little hot water, stirring well ; 
cook 5 m., season with salt and pepper and pour 
over the chops. 

PORK TENDERLOIN. 
Prepare the same as pork chops 

PORK AND BEANS. 
I qt. beans, J lb. salt pork, i tsp. salt, J c. mo- 
lasses. Soak the beans over night in cold water. 
Throw off this water in the morning, put in cold 
water and simmer till tender, but not broken. Turn 



I04 THE YOUNG COOIvS GUIDE. • 

them into a colander and pour cold water through. 
Put them into the bean pot or pan. Score the rind of 
the pork, bury it in the beans, leaving only the rind 
exposed. Put the salt into the molasses, add J c. hot 
water and pour over the beans. Cover and bake in 
a moderate oven 6 h. 

BOILED HAM. 
Soak over night in cold water. Scrub with a small 
scrubbing brush, trim off the black part, cover with 
cold water, add a blade of mace, 3 cloves and a bay 
leaf, and simmer till tender, about a half hour to a 
pound. Let it remain in the water till cold, peel off 
the rind, sprinkle with bread crumbs, and brown -in 
the oven ; or decorate with cloves and parsley. 
Trim the shank bone with a paper frill. 

HAM AND EGGS.' 
Have the ham in slices half an inch thick ; remove 
the rind, gash the fat and cut into small pieces for 
serving. Put into a hot frying-pan with no fat, fry 
over a quick fire till the fat is crisp. Break as many 
eggs as you have pieces of ham, taking care not to 
break the yolk, and drop one at a time in the hot fat 
left from cooking the ham. You may put muffin 
rings into the pan and drop an egg into each ; this 
will keep the eggs round. Cook slowly until the 
yolks are set, lift up carefully and put one egg on 
each piece of ham. 

CREAMED HAM. 
I pt. lean cold boiled ham cut into -J- inch dice, i 
c. white sauce, spk. cayenne, J tsp. mustard. Cut 
up the ham, make the sauce, leaving out the salt 



PORK. 105 

until you add the ham, for fear it might be too salt, 
add the cayenne, mustard and ham. Serve in dres- 
den patty cases, or in potato border, or on toast. 

LIVER AND BACON. 
Cut the bacon in thin slices and the liver into 
serving pieces. Scald the liver, dredge with salt, 
pepper and flour. Put the bacon in a frying-pan 
with no fat, fry till crisp, lay on a hot dish ; then put 
the liver into the hot fat, fry on one side, turn over 
and brown on the other side. Put on the dish with 
a piece of bacon on each piece of liver. 

TO TRY OUT LARD. 

Cut the leaves in small pieces, put on the back of 
the stove and cook slowly till crisp ; strain through 
a. fine sieve or cloth into pails. 



POULTRY AND GAME. 

TO CHOOSE GOOD POULTRY. 

Turkeys should have the lower end of the breast 
bone soft, full, plump breasts, the flesh firm and 
white. 

Chickens should have firm flesh, plump breast, soft 
yellow feet, smooth legs, and the cartilage at the 
end of the breast bone should be soft and pliable. 

Geese and ducks have the same tests as chickens, 
the breast being hard and thick, the windpipe break- 
ing under pressure of the thumb and finger. 

TO TRUSS AND DRESS POULTRY. 

Pick out all the pin-feathers, singe over a little 
burning paper, holding in the flame and taking care 
not to touch the burnt paper, or it will blacken it ; 
wipe all over with a damp cloth. Cut off the head, 
push back the skin off the neck and close to the 
body ; take hold of the windpipe and work down 
carefully to the crop, remove and cut off close to the 
body. Make an incision three inches long near the 
tail, lengthwise of the fowl ; insert two fingers and 
work up carefully, keeping close to the breast bone 
until you reach the liver and heart, push the fingers 
around on both sides ; when all seems to be loose, 
grasp the entire entrails, having the fingers above 
the liver and the heart and around the gizzard, and 
pull out carefully. Be very careful not to break the 
gall bladder, which is a small, green bag, that lies un- 

io6 



POULTRY AND GAME. lO/ 

der the liver. Remove the kidneys and the lungs, 
which lie in the back between the ribs. Remove 
the oil bag in the tail. Wipe inside and out, but 
never put in water unless you have broken some of 
the entrails, and then wash very quickly and dry at 
once. Salt the inside, stuff and skewer or sew up, 
run a skewer through the tail, tie the legs together, 
push them well up into the body ; hold in place with 
a skewer run through the upper part of the leg and 
through the body ; tie the ends of the legs to the 
skewer through the tail. Turn the tips of the wings 
back, skewer close to the body, fill the skin where 
the crop was with stuffing, tie up the neck and 
fasten the end under the back. 

TO CLEAN THE GIBLETS. 

Remove the liver, cut off all discolored parts, cut 
the veins out of the heart, cut through the gizzard, 
remove the inside lining, use only the meat part, 
cutting close to the gristle, wash and put in cold 
water till tender. 

ROAST CHICKEN. 
Clean, stuff and truss ; lay on a rack in a baking 
pan, rub with soft butter, dredge with salt and flour. 
Lay any chicken fat over the top of the chicken and 
in the pan. If you have not enough, use beef drip- 
pings. Baste often. Use no water at first, but later 
on add a little at a time. Turn the chicken so that 
it may brown on all sides. Bake until the joints 
begin to separate. About ij h. for a 4 lb. chicken. 
When done draw out the threads and skewers, lay 
on a platter and garnish with celery or parsley. 



I08 THE YOUNG COOK'S GUIDE. 

STUFFING. 

I c. bread crumbs, i tbsp. melted butter, -J tsp. 
sage, -J- tsp. thyme, -J tsp. salt, |- tsp. pepper. You 
can use a little onion juice, chopped celery, or 
oysters, if you like. 

GIBLET GRAVY. 

Pour off all the grease from the baking pan, 
dredge with a little flour; when brown add a little hot 
water gradually, salt and pepper ; cook 5 m., strain, 
and add the giblets which have been chopped fine. 

ROAST TURKEY. 

Prepare the same as roast chicken. You may lay 
two or three sausages on top of the turkey while 
roasting ; they baste it and give a delicious flavor. 

BOILED CHICKEN. 

The chicken should be over a year old and not 
too fat. Clean, stuff and truss as for roasting. 
Dredge with salt and flour, and put in a pot with 
just enough water to cover. Add one bay leaf and 
a quarter of a cup of washed rice. Cover closely and 
simmer till tender ; allow 30 m. to a lb. When done, 
lay on a hot platter and serve with brown sauce, 
adding -J c. chopped celery or a few capers. 

BROILED CHICKEN. 
Only a very tender, young chicken is suitable for 
broiling. Singe, split down the back ; break the 
joints, remove the breast bone, clean and wipe out. 
Rub with soft butter and sprinkle with salt and 
pepper. Put in a well greased broiler and broil 20 



POULTRY AND GAME. IO9 

m. Turn the inside to the fire first. When done, 
serve on hot dish, seasoned with salt, pepper and 
butter. Can be served also with tartar sauce, or 
maitre d'hotel butter. 

CHICKEN FRICASSEE. 

Clean, cut at the joints for serving, cover with 
boi ing water, add 2 tsp. salt, i ssp. pepper and i 
bay leaf. Simmer till tender. Remove the large 
bones and return to the water ; dredge the meat 
with a very little salt and pepper, roll in fine bread 
crumbs and fry in hot drippings or deep fat. Drain 
on paper and serve on toast. 

GRAVY. 

I tbsp. butter, i c. milk, i tsp. lemon juice, 2 tbsp. 
flour, J tsp. celery salt, i c. chicken broth, i ssp. 
white pepper. Heat the milk, cook the flour and 
butter together till smooth, add the rhilk gradually, 
beating well ; add the broth and seasoning. 

CASSEROLE OF RICE AND CHICKEN. 

i|- c. cooked meat, i c. cooked rice, 2 tbsp. bread 
crumbs, f tsp. salt, i ssp. pepper, i ssp. thyme, i ssp. 
majoram, -J tsp. chopped onion, i tsp. chopped par- 
sley, I ssp. celery salt, i egg, i tsp. lemon juice, 
about I scant c. of stock. Chop the meat fine, add 
the stock and seasoning. Butter a 3 pt. mold, cover 
with the crumbs, then rice on sides and bottom i 
in. thick ; fill the cavity with the meat, cover with 
rice, cover the mold and bake -J h. or steam f of an 
hour. Serve with tomato sauce No. i. 
6 



no THE YOUNG COOKS GUIDE. 

CHICKEN SAUTE. 

Remove the bones from cold boiled chicken, 
dredge with a little salt and pepper, and roll in 
crumbs, egg and crumbs, and fry in hot cottolene. 
Lay on toast in a border of hot white sauce, with 
small flowerettes of hot boiled cauliflower. 

CREAMED CHICKEN. 

Cut cold cooked chicken into small pieces ; to i c. 
meat allow i c. white sauce. Make the sauce, add 
^ tsp. celery salt, 2 drops onion juice, add the chick- 
en, salt and pepper if needed ; warm through, re- 
move from the tire, add J tsp. lemon juice, and serve 
on toast, in potato border, or in dresden patty 
cases. Any bits of cold meat may be used up in 
this way. 

CHICKEN WITH MUSHROOMS. 

The white meat of a cold roast or boiled chicken 
cut into cubes, can of mushrooms, f c, milk, f c. 
chicken broth, i egg, -J c. butter, 2 tsp. cornstarch, 
-g- c. chopped celer}', salt and pepper to taste. Cook 
the butter and cornstarch till smooth, add the hot 
broth gradually, then the hot milk, then the well- 
beaten Ggg. Cook I m., stirring, add chicken, mush- 
room, celery ; season with salt and pepper ; serve 
on toast or in patty cases. 

CHICKEN HOLLANDAISE. 

-Jc. butter, yolks of two eggs, juice -J lemon, J ssp. 
cayenne, i tsp. chopped parsley, i ssp. chopped 
onion, i tsp. cornstarch, 2 c. hot chicken broth, 2 c. 
chicken chopped fine, f c. celery chopped fine. Cook 
the onion in the butter i m., add the cornstarch, 



POULTRY AND GAME. Ill 

cook till smooth, add the broth gradually, then add 
the beaten yolks, then the celery ; season with salt 
and pepper, add the chicken. Serve with graham 
toast. 

ROAST DUCK. 

Prepare the same as for roast chicken. You may 
stuff them or not as you please. The strong odor 
can be removed partly, by stuffing with quartered 
apples, cored and pared. Do not use the apples. 
Serve with apple sauce or cranberries. Bake 30 m. 
in a hot oven. 

ROAST GOOSE. 
Before drawing wash and scrub thoroughly in 
warm soapsuds. Rinse off. Draw, wash out the in- 
side and proceed as for roast chicken, laying slices 
of fat salt pork over the breast. This will baste the 
meat, so do not rub with soft butter. When half 
done, pour off the grease from the pan, remove the 
pork and dredge with flour. Add a little water to 
the pan and baste when the flour browns. Cook 
until brown and tender, allowing twenty-five minutes 
to a pound. Serve with giblet sauce, as for roast 
chicken, and apple sauce. 

LARDED GROUSE. 
Clean, wipe inside and out. Turn the wings back, 
fasten the legs to the sides of the body ; put two 
rows of lardoons down the breast and one row on 
the legs. Run small skewer through the tail.. Tie 
the legs firmly to this skewer. Dredge with salt ; 
rub the breast with soft butter, then dredge with 
flour. Cook 20 m. in a hot oven. Baste every 5 m. 



112 THE YOUNG COOKS GUIDE. 

Remove from the pan, lay on the bread sauce and 
cover with browned crumbs. 

BREAD SAUCE. 
I pt. milk, I quarter onion, i c. soft bread crumbs. 
Put the milk and onion in a double boiler with -J of 
a cup of fine bread crumbs; cook 15m., add i tsp. 
salt, I ssp. pepper. Brown the f c. coarse bread 
crumbs in i tbsp. butter ; lay over the grouse. 

QUAIL. 
Quail may be larded like grouse, and baked and 
served on toast, with cubes of currant jelly ; or it 
may be boned and wrapped in buttered paper and 
broiled ; or the breasts may be cooked in a sweet 
potato, hollowing out the potato by cutting through 
the middle ; put the breast in, tie up and cook till 
.the potato is done. Tie up with a ribbon and decor- 
ate with a sprig of parsley. The bones should al- 
ways be stewed down to make stock for rich sauces. 



MEAT AND FISH SAUCES. 

WHITE SAUCE. 

I c. milk, I tbsp. flour, i tbsp. butter, J tsp. salt, 
i ssp. white pepper. Heat the milk, mix the flour, 
salt and pepper, cook the butter i m., add the dry- 
flour, cook till smooth, add the milk gradually, stir- 
ring hard all the time ; when half the milk is added, 
remove from the fire and give a thorough beating ; 
add the rest of the milk slowly ; cook 2 m. after all 
is used. It will curdle and lump when you first be- 
gin to add the milk, but stir well and it will come 
out smooth. Take care that the butter or flour does 
not brown. 

CREAM SAUCE. 
Prepare the same as white sauce, using cream in- 
stead of milk. 

BROWN SAUCE. 
I pt. stock, 2 tbsp. flour, 2 tbsp. butter, -J tsp. salt, 
I ssp. pepper, 2 tbsp. chopped onion, -J- tbsp. lemon 
juice, I tbsp. carrot. Cook the vegetables in the 
butter till the onion is light brown, add the dry 
flour; when brown add the hot stock slowly, stir well 
all the time ; when half the stock is used give a 
thorough beating ; add the remaining stock, salt and 
pepper. Cook 5 m. and strain. The stock for 
sauces may be made by putting chop, steak, game, 
or any small bits of bone or meat in cold water, and 
boiling slowly for hours. 

113 



114 THE YOUNG COOK'S GUIDE. 

BROWN MUSHROOM SAUCE, FOR FILLETS, VEAL 

CUTLETS, ETC. 

Add to the brown sauce -J c. of the Hquor from a 
can of mushrooms, and ^ can of mushrooms cut in 
quarters. 

BROWN SAUCE PIQUANT. 

To I c. brown sauce add i tbsp. each of chopped 
pickles, onions, and parsley. 

CURRANT JELLY SAUCE. (For mutton.) 

To I c. brown sauce add -J c. currant jelly ; boil 
up once and serve. 

DRAWN BUTTER. 
I pt. hot stock, or water, -J c. butter, 2 tbsp. flour, 
■J tsp. salt, J ssp. pepper. Prepare as for white sauce. 

CAPER SAUCE. 

Add to the drawn butter sauce 4 tbsp. capers and 
I tbsp. vinegar. 

PARSLEY SAUCE. 

Add to the drawn butter sauce 2 tbsp. chopped 
parsley. 

EGG SAUCE. 

Add two or three hard boiled eggs, chopped. 

SHRIMP SAUCE. 

Add I c. shrimps, whole, or chopped fine, i tbsp. 
lemon juice and a few grains of cayenne. 

OYSTER SAUCE. 
Cook I pt. oysters till plump ; drain and use I pt. 



MEAT AND FISH SAUCES. II5 

of the liquor for drawn butter sauce. Add i ssp. 
celery salt and a speck of cayenne. Add the oysters 
and cook i m. 

LOBSTER SAUCE. 

Reserve -J c. of tender bits of meat. Cut remainder 
fine, simmer in i pt. hot water i h. Pound the 
coral with i tbsp. butter to a paste. Cook i-J- tbsp. 
flour in 2 tbsp. butter till smooth, strain and add 
the water, J ssp. cayenne, -J- tbsp. lemon juice, the 
lobster, butter, and bits of meat. 

TOMATO SAUCE. No. I. 

I tbsp. butter, i tbsp. flour, i tbsp. chopped onion, 
I c. mutton liquor or stock, -J c. strained tomato, i 
tsp. salt, I ssp. pepper. Heat the stock, fry the 
onion in the butter till light yellow, add the flour 
and the salt and pepper, when smooth and frothy 
add the stock gradually ; add the tomato. 

TOMATO SAUCE. No. 2. 

I pt. tomato. ^ ssp. pepper. 

-J " hot water. i tsp. salt. 

I tbsp. chopped onion. 2 allspice berries. 

I ^' butter. 2 whole cloves. 

I '' flour. 2 peppercorns. 

I sprig thyme. 2 sprigs of parsley. 

I " parsley. i sprig majoram. 

I '' summer savory, i " sage. 
I bay leaf. 
Cook the tomato, water, spices, herbs, parsley 10 
m. Cook the onion in the butter till yellow, add the 
dry flour, when smooth and frothy add the tomato. 
Boil 10 m. and strain. 



Il6 THE YOUNG COOK'S GUIDE. 

HOLLANDAISE SAUCE. 

^ c. butter, yolks 3 eggs, i tbsp. lemon juice, i 
ssp. salt, J ssp. pepper (cayenne), -J- c. boiling waten 
Cream the butter ; add the yolks, one at a time, beat 
well ; add the seasoning. Add the boiling water, 
set the bowl in a pan of boiling water and stir till it 
thickens. When thick as cream, remove at once, or 
it will curdle. 

BECHAMEL SAUCE. 

I tbsp. butter. ij c. white stock. 

I '' flour. I spk. nutmeg. 

i c. cream. Yolks of 2 eggs. 

I tbsp. lemon juice. 
(5 peppercorns, i blade of mace, i bay leaf, ^ slice 
onion, i sprig parsley and thyme, i slice carrot, tied 
in a cloth.) 

Cook the little bag in the stock -J hour ; heat the 
cream, cook the flour and butter till frothy, add the 
stock, removing the bag, add the cream, pour on to 
the beaten egg, return to the fire and cook over hot 
water till it thickens like custard, being careful not 
to curdle ; remove from the fire, add the lemon juice 
and nutmeg, salt and pepper, if needed. 

TARTAR SAUCE. (Hot, for fish.) 

I tbsp. vinegar, i tsp. lemon juice, i ssp. salt, i 
tbsp. Worcestershire sauce, J c. butter. Mix vine- 
gar, lemon juice, salt and sauce in bowl, over hot 
water, brown the butter in a small pan and add to 
the other. 



MEAT AND FISH SAUCES. 11/ 

MAYONNAISE TARTAR. 

^c. oil. I tsp. salt. 

3 tbsp. vinegar. J " pepper. 

i tsp. onion juice. i " mustard. 

Yolks 2 raw eggs. i *^ sugar. 

I tbsp. each chopped olives, capers, pickles, and 
parsley. Make the same as Mayonnaise, adding the 
chopped ingredients last. 

MAITRE D'HOTEL BUTTER. 

J c. butter. i tbsp. lemon juice. 

i tsp. salt. I " chopped parsley. «' 

■J- ssp. white pepper. 

Cream the butter, add the seasoning and stir 

well. Serve on steak, Hamburgh steak, or fish. 

ROMOULADE SAUCE. 

2 tbsp. vinegar. i tsp. mustard. 

2 " tarragon vinegar. -J- " salt. 

I ssp. cayenne. i " chopped parsley. 

Yolk I raw egg. f c. olive oil. 

Yolks of 2 hard boiled eggs. 
Mash the yolks, add the raw yolk, seasoning, beat 

well ; add the oil very slowly, beating well ;f when 

too thick add a little vinegar. Add the fvinegar 

slowly and parsley last. 



SWEETBREADS. 

TO PREPARE SWEETBREADS. 
The best sweetbreads come from veal and are 
large glands, one lying in the back of the throat, the 
other in the breast, near the heart. The heart sweet- 
bread is the best. They spoil very quickly and 
should be immediately placed in cold water with a 
little salt as soon as they come from the market. 
Let them stand i h., as this draws out all the blood, 
then remove all the pipes and membranes, and put 
into boiling salted water with i tbsp. lemon juice. 
Boil 1 5 m. and plunge into cold water to harden and 
whiten. They may then be put away for future use, 
but should be kept in a very cold place and used 
within twenty-four hours. Do not cook in either 
iron or tin, and always cut with a silver knife. 

CREAMED SWEETBREADS. 

Cut prepared sweetbreads into small cubes. For 
■J c. sweetbreads make i c. white sauce, add the 
sweetbreads, ^ c. mushrooms quartered, heat for a 
few moments over hot water, serve on toast with 
green peas around, or in cases. You may leave out 
the mushrooms and add more sweetbreads. 

SWEETBREADS IN CASES. 
Break or cut prepared sweetbreads into small sec- 
tions or cubes. Scald i c. cream in the double boil- 
er. Beat the yolks of 2 eggs, pour the cream over, 
return to the fire and cook till thick as custard, stir- 

ii8 



SWEETBREADS. II9 

ring all the time. Remove from the fire, add the 

sweetbreads, season with salt and pepper, fill the 

cases, cover with buttered crumbs, and bake till the 
crumbs are brown. 

BROILED SWEETBREADS. 
Rub prepared sweetbreads with butter, salt and 
pepper, wrap in buttered paper and broil 10 m. 
Serve on toast with Maitre d'Hotel butter. 

SWEETBREADS AND BACON. 

Cut prepared sweetbreads into -J- inch cubes, roll 
in crumbs, egg and crumbs. Put one cube on a 
wooden toothpick, then a small thin square slice of 
bacon, etc., using three pieces of each on one skewer. 
Fry in hot cottolene and serve on the skewers with 
tomato sauce No. 2. 

LARDED SWEETBREADS. 

Trim prepared sweetbreads, remove all fat and 
put five lardoons in each ; dredge with salt, pepper 
and flour, lay on a rack in a baking pan, bake in a 
hot oven 30 m., basting with brown stock. Drain 
the liquor from a can of very small French peas, 
rinse them in cold water, drain, and put on the fire 
in fresh cold water ; let it come to a boil, drain the 
peas again, add a little butter, pepper, salt and very 
little sugar. When hot pile on a platter, cover with 
white sauce and put the sweetbreads on top. Gar- 
nish with parsley. The two cold waters used on the 
peas helps to remove the taste of the can. This is a 
very delicious and attractive dish for an entree. 

For sweetbread croquettes and salad, look for cro- 
quettes and salads. 



VEGETABLES. 

POTATOES. 

Potatoes consist of three-fourths water, nearly 
one-fourth starch, with a small amount of mineral 
matter ; potash salts and silica. They are easily di- 
gested, particularly when baked in a hot oven. 
They should always be served as soon as cooked, as 
standing makes them less palatable. 

BOILED POTATOES. 
Select ones of the same size and shape ; wash, 
scrub, pare and put in cold water. Put in boiling 
salted water, allowing i tsp. salt to i quart of water. 
Boil gently till they can be pierced with a fork, drain 
at once every drop of water off, shake gently so as 
to break the outside a little, and let the dry starch 
inside give them a mealy appearance. Set on the 
side of the stove uncovered for a few minutes. 

BAKED POTATOES. 
Wash and scrub potatoes of medium size and bake 
in a hot oven from 30 to 45 m., or until soft. As 
soon as they are done break the skins so that they 
may let out the steam and be mealy. Serve at once 
uncovered. 

MASHED POTATOES. 

While you are boiling the potatoes get everything 

ready ; a hot dish, potato masher, a fork, pepper, 

salt, butter, and a little hot milk. As soon as the 

potatoes are drained, mash at once in the same 

120 



VEGETABLES. 121 

saucepan ; do not mash by patting them down bat 
with a quick, sharp motion bring the masher down 
to the bottom of the pan each time. Scrape around 
the corners with a fork and mash again. When all 
the lumps are out (and the quicker it is done the 
more delicious will be the potatoes) add a little pep- 
per, salt, butter and hot milk and beat very light. 

POTATO CAKES. 
Make cold mashed potato into small, round cakes |- 
in. thick. Put a little butter in a frying-pan, just 
enough to grease it all over, put in the cakes and 
cook till brown. Turn with a knife, brown the 
other side and serve on hot dish. 

POTATO BALLS. 
Season i pt. hot mashed potato with pepper, salt, 
celery salt, chopped parsley and butter ; beat i egg 
very light ; add half to the potato. Shape into 
round balls, roll in remainder of egg, bake on but- 
tered tin till brown. Serve round Hamburgh steak. 

RICE POTATO. 

Press hot mashed potato through a colander into 
a hot dish, and put in the oven till brown. Serve 
uncovered. 

CREAMED POTATOES. 
I pt. cold Doiled potatoes, ^ c. milk, spk. white 
pepper, i tbsp. butter, -| tsp. salt, i tsp. parsley. 
Cut the potatoes into small dice. Put the milk in a 
frying-pan, add the seasoning, when hot add the po- 
tatoes ; when the milk is nearly absorbed, add the 
butter, stir gently with a fork so as not to break 



12 2 THE YOUNG COOK'S GUIDE. 

them. Cook 5 m., turn into a dish, sprinkle the 
parsley over them and serve. 

LYONNAISE POTATOES. 
I pt. cold boiled potatoes, i tsp. salt, -| ssp. pep- 
per, tbsp. chopped onion, i tbsp. beef dripping, i 
tbsp. chopped parsley. Cut the potatoes in small 
cubes ; heat the dripping, fry the onion in it till light 
brown, add the potato, cook until brown, add the 
seasoning and chopped parsley. 

FRANCONIA POTATOES. 
Scrub and pare potatoes of uniform size, lay on 
the rack around the roast beef, bake with the meat 
and serve around the meat. When you baste the 
meat, pour the fat over the potatoes too. 

FRIED POTATOES NO. i. 
Scrub, pare and cut in the desired shape, lay in 
cold salted water i h. Drain from the water, dry on 
a towel, and fry in hot cottolene. 

FRIED OR SAUTED POTATOES, NO. 2 
Cut cold boiled potatoes into slices -J inch thick. 
Put some beef drippings in a frying-pan, when 
smoking hot put in enough potatoes to cover the 
pan ; when brown turn on the other side and brown, 
lay on a hot dish, sprinkle with salt and pepper. 

POTATO BALLS IN CREAM. 
Scrub and pare good sized potatoes. With a veg- 
etable cutter scoop out balls and lay them in cold 
water. Cook in boiling salted water until the balls 
are soft through, but not at all broken. While they 



VEGETABLES. 1 23 

are cooking make enough white sauce to cover them 
with ; when done, drain, and turn carefully into the 
white sauce. Sprinkle a little chopped parsley over 
and serve. 

POTATOES A LA MAITRE D' HOTEL. 
Scrub, pare, and cut into balls. Boil in salted 
water 10 m. Drain, barely cover with milk; when 
nearly absorbed add the butter. 

MAITRE D'HOTEL BUTTER. 
Cream i tbsp. butter, add the yolk of i raw egg, 
stir well, add i tsp. lemon juice, i tbsp. parsley, -i- 
tsp. salt, i ssp. pepper. 

BOILED SWEET POTATOES. 
Scrub, but do not pare. Cook in boiling salted 
water till tender. Peel at once, scraping off any of 
the dark part under the skin. 

FRIED SWEET POTATOES. 
Prepare the same as fried potatoes No. 2. 

ESCALOPED SWEET POTATOES. 
Cut cold boiled potatoes into ^ inch cubes. Put a 
layer of potatoes on a platter, cover with white sauce, 
then another layer of potatoes and sauce. Cover 
with soft, white bread crumbs, not too small, and 
over which has been poured a little melted butter. 
Bake till the crumbs are brown. 

BOILED TURNIPS. 
Wash, cut into pieces, pare, and lay in cold water, 
cook in boiling salted water till tender ; drain thor- 
oughly, mash till free from lumps, add a little butter, 
pepper, and salt. 



124 THE YOUNG COOKS GUIDE. 

SCALLOPED TURNIPS. 
Wash, pare, and cut into |- in. cubes; cook in' boil- 
ing salted water till tender. Drain, put a layer of 
turnips in a dish, cover with white sauce, then another 
layer of turnip ; cover with sauce and cover the top 
with large, buttered bread crumbs. Bake till brown. 



GREEN VEGETABLES. 

Green vegetables should be kept in a cool place 
until used, and are improved by standing in cold 
water an hour before cooking. They should be 
cooked rapidly in boiling salted water, uncovered, 
and served as soon as done. 

SPINACH. 

Pick over and cut off the roots, wash thoroughly 
from one pan to another, and put in a kettle with no 
water, and a little salt ; cook slowly at first, boil 
until tender. Drain, chop fine, season with salt, pep- 
per, and butter. Garnish with hard boiled Qgg. 

SPINACH A La CREME.' 
After the spinach has been cooked and seasoned, 
mix with it a little white sauce, pile up in a mound 
and cover with white sauce ; decorate with hard 
boiled egg. 

PEAS. 

Shell, lay in cold water if at all wilted, cook in 
boiling salted water until tender. Use only a little 
water, and let it boil away, so there is only a little 
left when the peas are done. Two or three pods 
cooked with the peas for ten minutes makes them 
sweeter. Add a little butter, pepper, and if they 
are not sweet, a little bit of sugar. 

STRING BEANS. 
Remove the strings from both sides of the beans, 
cut into inch pieces, cook in boiling salted water, the 
same as peas. 

125 



126 THE YOUNG COOK'S GUIDE. 

BEETS. 
Cut the tops off about 2 inches from the beet ; if 
you cut the beet at all it will bleed in cooking and 
lose its sweetness. Wash, and cook in boiling salted 
water with the skin on, until they are tender right 
through when pierced with a fork. When done, re- 
move from the hot water and rub off the skins by 
holding in cold water. Cut in quarters, or slices, put 
a little butter on and serve. 

ASPARAGUS. 

Cut off the tough, white ends. Lay in cold water 
I h. before cooking. Tie securely into bundles, 
cook in boiling, salted water about 15 m., or till 
tender. While the asparagus is cooking, make enough 
toast to cover the platter it is served on, butter the 
toast, cover the toast with white sauce ; lift out each 
bundle carefully by the cord, lay on the toast, the 
heads all one way, cut the cords with a scissors and 
cover the tips with a little sauce. 

BOILED CABBAGE. 

Remove all the leaves by breaking off one at a 
time close to the stalk, and lay them in large pan of 
cold water one hour. Have a large saucepan of 
boiling water, add i tsp. of salt, dry each leaf on a 
towel and drop into the water. Do not put in so 
many that the water will stop boiling ; cook un- 
covered till tender, about twenty minutes. Drain in 
a colander and cut up lightly with a knife and fork. 
Put into a hot dish, season with salt, pepper, and 
butter, and serve. Some think it is improved by 
cooking in two waters. 



GREEN VEGETABLES. 12/ 

CABBAGE A LA CREME. 
Prepare as for boiled cabbage. Mix a little white 
sauce through it and cover with white sauce. 

BOILED CAULIFLOWER. 
Pick off the outside leaves and cut off any dark 
spots ; cut off the stem close to the bottom of the 
flowerets. Soak in cold, salted water, top down- 
wards, for one hour. Tie in a piece of cheese cloth 
to prevent breaking, and cook in boiling, salted water 
about fifteen or twenty minutes, or until a fork will 
pierce the stalk easily. When done, drain carefully, 
and serve, covered with white sauce. 

CAULIFLOWER AU GRATIN. 

Cook the cauliflower in boiling, salted water, till 
tender, or you may use any left over pieces. Break 
in small pieces, cover with white sauce, and soft, but- 
tered bread crumbs, and bake till the crumbs are 
brown. 

BORDER OF CAULIFLOWER. 

Prepare as for boiled cauliflower, breaking the 
cauliflower into small flowerets. When the cauli- 
flower is done, drain, and arrange around the dish as 
a border, pour white sauce over it and around it. 

BOILED SPINACH. 
Cut off the roots, pick off all the decayed and yel- 
low leaves, and lay in cold water, Wash thoroughly 
from one panful of water to another, until the water 
is clear, and the sand all removed. Rinse and put 
into a pot with no water. Heat slowly and cook un- 
covered, adding a little salt. When tender, drain, 



128 THE YOUNG COOK'S GUIDE. 

chop fine and season with salt, pepper, and butter. 
Spinach is best cooked in its own juices, as it retains 
more of the mineral matter, its most valuable con- 
stituent. 

ONIONS. 

Lay in cold water and remove the skins. Cook in 
boiling, salted water until easily pierced with a fork ; 
drain, add a little salt, pepper, butter, and hot milk 

CORN ON THE COB. 
Keep in cool place till ready to cook ; remove the 
husks and every thread of silk. Put into boiling 
water with no salt, and after it comes to a boil cook 
five minutes. Pick up with a fork and lay on a nap- 
kin. Salt in the water is apt to turn the corn yellow. 

LIMA BEANS. 

Shell just before using, and cook in boiling, salted 

water, till the largest ones are soft. Drain, cook \ 

tbsp. butter and \ tsp. flour together, add i c. hot 

milk gradually, add the beans and season with salt 

and pepper. 

SUCCOTASH. 

I pt. lima beans, i pt. of corn, \ pt. milk, f tbsp. 
butter, \ ssp. pepper, salt, if needed. Cook the 
beans in boiling salted water till tender ; run a sharp 
knife down through the centre of the kernels of the 
corn, cut or scrape the corn from the cob, being 
careful not to cut into the cob ; put in a sauce-pan 
with the beans and milk, cook 5 m., add the butter, 
pepper, salt, if needed, and \ tsp sugar ; boil up once 

and serve. 

TOMATOES. (Raw.) 

Pour boiling water over them, let stand 3 m., take 



GREEN VEGETABLES I 29 

out and remove the skins. When cold put on the 
ice, and when ready to serve cut in sHces. 

STEWED TOMATOES. 
Scald, remove the skin and hard green stem. Cut 
in small pieces and stew, uncovered, for 15 m., chop- 
ping with a spoon as they cook. Season with salt, 
pepper, and a little sugar. 

SCALLOPED TOMATOES. 
Scald, remove the skins and cut in slices one half 
inch thick. Butter a dish and put in a layer of fine 
seasoned bread crumbs, then a layer of tomato ; 
season with a little salt, pepper, and sugar, then 
another layer of crumbs. Two layers of crumbs and 
two of tomato are enough, and cover the top with 
f c. crumbs, on which has been poured J c. melted 
butter. Bake until brown. 

STUFFED TOMATOES. 
Cut a small round from the opposite side to the 
stem. Scoop out a little of the inside ; fill the cavity 
with fine bread crumbs, well seasoned with salt, pep- 
per, and shake a very little sugar into the tomato 
before putting in the stuffing. Cover with the small 
rounds and bake in a hot oven about 20 m. 

BRUSSELS SPROUTS IN CREAM. 

I qt. sprouts, I c. milk, 2 tbsp. butter, i tbsp. 
flour, f tsp. salt, -J- tsp. pepper. Pick over and lay 
the sprouts in cold water for i h. Drain and cook 
in boiling salted water 30. m. Drain and put into 
a double boiler with the milk ; cook 10 m. Cream 
the butter, add the flour, add a little hot milk ; pour 



130 THE YOUNG COOK'S GUIDE. 

onto the sprouts, cook five minutes, add the salt and 
pepper. 

VEGETABLES A LA JARDINIERE. 

I can French peas. i pt. carrot -J in. cubes. 

3 gills stock (white). i '' turnip " " 

3 tbsp. butter. 3 tsp. sugar. 

3 tsp. salt. 

Cook the vegetables in separate saucepans. When 
tender, drain, add to each J of the butter, salt, sugar 
and stock. Boil rapidly till the stock is absorbed. 
Spread the turnips on a platter, heap the carrots on 
the turnips, leaving a border of an inch ; flatten the 
carrots and heap the peas on them. To prepare the 
canned peas, look for directions on canned vege- 
tables, and then add the stock, etc., as directed. 

FRIED EGG PLANT. 

Cut in half-inch slices, pare, and put in strong, 
salted water to draw out the bitter taste. Allow 
two tablespoonfuls of salt to one quart of water. 
Keep under the water by laying saucers over it. 
Soak for two or three hours. Dry between tow.els, 
dip in crumbs, egg and crumbs, and fry in a little hot 
cottolene. 

MUSHROOMS. 

Mushrooms have a peculiarly delicious flavor, and 
are used for sauces and entrees. When purchased 
fresh, they should be bought of a reliable dealer, and 
unless you are able to distinguish the poisonous 
ones it is best to use the canned ones. One test is 
to stir, while boiling, with a silver spoon, and it will 
discolor if there is one poisonous one in the num- 



GREEN VEGETABLES. 131 

ber. The skin should peel off easily from good 
mushrooms. 

STEWED MUSHROOMS. 
Peel the mushrooms, break into pieces or not as 
you choose, wash them, put in a granite pan, 
sprinkle slightly with a little salt and pepper, add to 
every pint of mushrooms one tablespoonful of butter 
rubbed into one tablespoonful of flour. Stew until 
tender, add a little cream, when hot, serve on toast. 

BAKED MUSHROOxMS. 
Peel and cut off the stalks close to the top. Put 
on a baking dish upside down, sprinkle Avith salt and 
pepper and a little melted butter. Bake in a quick 
oven 20 m., basting with butter often. Serve as a 
garnish to meat. 

BOILED MACARONL 
Cook in boiling salted water till tender, about 20 
minutes. Drain in a colander and pour cold water 
through it. Serve with tomato sauce. 

MACARONI AND CHEESE. 
Prepare as for boiled macaroni ; put a layer in a 
deep baking dish, cover with a layer of cheese and a 
few little pieces of butter, then another layer of 
macaroni and cheese, covering the top of the dish 
with a thick layer of cheese. Add enough milk to 
come half way up the dish, and cook in a hot oven 
till the milk is almost absorbed. 

SPAGHETTI. 
J lb. spaghetti. 2 tbsp. butter, 

I c. bread crumbs, i pt. tomato sauce No. 2. 
I c. grated cheese. 



132 THE YOUNG COOKS GUIDE. 

Cook the spaghetti in boiling salted water 20 m. 
Drain and pour cold water over it. Butter a platter^ 
put on a layer of sauce, then one of spaghetti, 
sprinkle well with cheese ; continue till all the ma- 
terial is used. Stir the crumbs into the melted but- 
ter, spread over the top and bake ^ hour. 



GRAINS. 

Wheat, oats, corn, rye, barley, rice and buckwheat 
are the grains containing the most nutriment. The 
whole wheat grain contains all the elements for per- 
fect food. Oatmeal is the most nutritious, contain- 
ing more nitrogen than any other grain, and supplies 
material for hard work, both of brain and muscle. 
Corn contains more fat than other grains and so pro- 
duces more heat. Rye is very nutritive, contains a 
good deal of sugar, and produces a good deal of 
heat. Barley is rich in phosphates, easily digested, 
contains starch and mucilage which make it valuable 
for the sick room. Rice is very easily digested, 
contains more starch and less fat than any other 
grain. Buckwheat contains more heat producing 
food than any other grain and is inferior in nutritive 
qualities. It should only be used in winter, and by 
those who exercise freely. 

OATMEAL. 

I qt. boiling water. i c. oatmeal. i tsp. salt. 

Put all into the top of a double boiler, place the 
boiler on the fire, let it boil rapidly for lo m., stir- 
ring occasionally with a fork, place over the hot 
water and steam i to 2 h., according to the coarse- 
ness of the oatmeal. 

. HOMINY. 

Prepare the same as oatmeal. 

; 133 



134 THE YOUNG COOK'S GUIDE. 

CRACKED WHEAT. 

I c. cracked wheat. 3 c. boiling water, i tsp. salt. 

Cook the same as oatmeal, boiling it four hours. 

STEAMED RICE. 

i c. rice. -J tsp. salt. i c. boiling water. 
Wash the rice thoroughly, put it with the salt and 
water into the top of the double boiler, boil rapidly 
10 m. stirring with a fork, then place over hot water 
and steam 20 m. Do not stir after you put it over 
the hot water, and keep it closely covered. 

BOILED RICE. 

I c. rice. 3 qts. boiling water. I tsp. salt. 
Wash the rice, put in the boiling water and boil 
rapidly until the kernels are soft. The time varies, 
about 30 m. Drain in a colander and serve at once. 

FRIED HOMINY. 

Cut cold boiled hominy into small pieces for serv- 
ing, dip in crumbs, egg and crumbs, and fry in hot 
cottolene. 



BATTERS. 

Batters are mixtures of flour and some liquid, and 
are generally made light by beating in air, or using 
something to produce carbonic acid gas. For the 
thin batters, the proportions are one cup of liquid to 
one cup of flour. A general rule for mixing is to 
sift flour, salt, and baking powder, if used, into a 
bowl. Beat the egg well, add the liquid to the egg, 
pour half of the liquid into the centre of the flour, 
and gradually work the flour in ; beat it till perfectly 
smooth, then beat in the remainder of the liquid. 
Do not sUr, but beat every time before cooking. 
Every thing should be ready, fire, pans, etc., before 
starting to mix them, as they should be cooked im- 
mediately, that the air, entangled by beating, does 
not escape. The heat of cooking expands the en- 
tangled air, which puffs up the material and makes 
the mixture light. They should be put into hot, 
well greased pans, and baked in a hot oven ; if 
cooked on a griddle it should be hot, and rubbed 
each time all over with a piece of fat salt pork. Do 
not attempt to do any thing else while you are cook- 
ing them, but have everything right at your hand, a 
hot plate to put them on, and cook them as quickly 
as possible. Do not put them aside to stand as they 
should be eaten at once. Never pile but a few on 
top of each other ; serve them and take another 
plate to serve the next on. 

135 



136 THE YOUNG COOK'S GUIDE. 

RICE GRIDDLE CAKES. 

I c. cooked rice. 2 eggs. 

I c. milk. I tbsp. butter. 

J tsp. salt. i tsp. Cleveland's baking-powder. 

Flour enough to make a thin batter. 

Beat the eggs well, add the milk and salt, then the 
rice, and lastly the flour, which has had the baking- 
powder and salt sifted with it. Use ^ a cup of flour 
at first and add more if you need it. 

HOMINY GRIDDLE CAKES. 
Prepare the same as rice cakes. 

BUCKWHEAT CAKES. 

I qt. cold water, i tsp. salt, 4 c. buckwheat, J cake 
of compressed yeast, dissolved in -J c. lukewarm 
water, i tbsp. molasses, ^ tsp. soda. Put the water, 
salt and buckwheat in a jar, beat thoroughly, add 
the yeast, mix well, cover, and let stand over night. 
In the morning stir down, add the soda, dissolved in 
a very little hot water, beat well, add the molasses, 
and bake on a hot griddle. The molasses makes 
them brown better. 

PAN CAKES. 

2 c. flour. 2 c. milk. 

2 ssp. salt. 2 tsp. melted butter. 

2 tsp. Cleveland's baking-powder. i egg. 
Sift the dry ingredients, beat the egg, add the 
milk and butter, stir into the flour, beat till smooth 
and pour from the end of the spoon on to a hot, 
well greased griddle. When the cakes are full of 
bubbles turn over and brown the other side. 



BATTERS. 137 

WAFFLES. 

I pt. sifted flour. -J- tsp. salt. 

ij c. milk. 3 eggs. 

I tsp. Cleveland's baking-powder. i tbsp. butter. 

Sift the baking-powder and salt with the flour. 
Beat the yolks of the eggs, add the milk and the 
melted butter, stir in the flour, beat till smooth ; add 
the well beaten whites last. Grease the waffle iron 
with fat salt pork and pour into the centre of the 
iron. Serve with lemon syrup. 

YEAST WAFFLES. 

I pt. milk. a4=-cake compressed yeast. 

I pt. sifted flour. 2 eggs. 

•J tsp salt. "I tbsp. melted butter. 

Scald the milk ; when lukewarm add the yeast, 
dissolved in -J c. of lukewarm milk. Stir in the flour 
with the salt. Beat well and set to rise over night. 
In the morning add the well beaten eggs, and the 
butter. 



BREAD. 

To be able to make good bread is an accomplish- 
ment which any woman ought to be proud of, for if 
it be ^' the staff of life " it should be the duty of 
every housekeeper to see that it is a support and 
a stay, with which to press onward, and not a load, 
always holding one back. The following extract 
from a private letter from Mrs. Garfield to her hus- 
band may inspire some one to '' go and do likewise " : 
*' I am glad to tell you that out of all the toil and 
disappointment of the summer just ended, I have 

risen up to a victory It came to me 

one morning when I was making bread. I said to 
myself, ' Here I am, compelled by an inevitable ne- 
cessity, to make our bread this summer. Why not 
consider it a pleasant occupation, and make it so, by 
trying to see what perfect bread I can make ? * It 
seemed like an inspiration, and the whole of life 
grew brighter. The very sunshine seemed flowing 
down through my spirit into the white loaves, and 
now I believe my table is furnished with better bread 
than before I need not be the shrink- 
ing slave of toil, but it's regal master, making what- 
ever I do yield me it's best fruits." 

In order to have our bread sweet and wholesome 
a slight knowledge of the properties contained in it, 
and the chemical changes which take place, are 
necessary. 

Wheat is the grain from which we make the most 

138 



BREAD. 139 

perfect bread, as it contains a tough, gray, sticky 
substance, which is called gluten, a large quantity of 
starch, and more mineral matter than any other 
grain. The whole wheat grain contains all of these 
elements, in a larger degree than the fine wheat flour, 
which has lost some of the nutritious part during the 
process of grinding. Good flour is absolutely neces- 
sary to the making of good bread. None but the 
best should ever be bought, and the most satisfactory 
test is to buy a little, give it a fair trial and, if satis- 
factory, use it. After using many of the brands in 
the market I can recommend '' Pillsbury *' as the 
most thoroughly satisfactory in every way, never 
having had a failure with it during years of con- 
tinued use. The next important thing is to have 
good yeast, the most convenient and reliable being 
the compressed cakes, one cake being equal to i c. 
of yeast. Yeast is one of the lowest orders of vege- 
table life, and is a plant of the fungus tribe, to which 
mold and mildew belong. Like all plants, it needs 
food, moisture, and warmth, to grow. When the 
yeast is moistened and put into the flour, it finds the 
food and conditions adapted to growth ; one little 
cell grows from another, until millions are formed 
in a few hours. Great care should be taken not to 
kill the life of the plant at the beginning of the pro- 
cess, by having the liquid too hot. The yeast plant, 
as it begins to grow, first attacks the starch in the 
wheat, some of which is changed into sugar ; then 
the sugar is changed into alcohol and carbonic acid 
gas. This gas tries to escape from the dough and 
the tenacity and elasticity of the gluten holds it, 
fining the dough with bubbles. If this is not checked 



I40 THE YOUNG COOK S GUIDE. 

in time, the alcoholic fermentation changes to the 
acetic, and the dough becomes sour. It is to ob- 
tain the carbonic acid gas that we use the yeast ; 
and we knead the dough to break up the large bub- 
bles and make the bread fine grained. As the bread 
is baked the yeast is killed, the carbonic acid gas 
tries to escape and so raises the loaf, the starch is 
cooked and the alcohol passes off. The sweet crust 
is caused by the decomposition of the starch on the 
outside, the intense heat changing it to dextrine. 
That the bread should be perfectly sweet, attention 
and care must be given to the temperature. The 
liquid should never be more than lukewarm when 
the yeast is added, and when first kneaded up, the 
dough should be kept well covered, out of any 
draught of cold air, and in a temperature of about 
75°. When risen to double its size it should be cut 
down, as if allowed to " cave in " it is apt to sour. 
After it has been kneaded into loaves, it is best to 
leave it in a temperature of ioo° until it rises to 
double its size, then bake at once. 

BAKING BREAD. 

There are several ways of testing the heat of the 
oven without using a thermometer ; the most relia- 
ble one is to put a tablespoonful of flour in the oven, 
and it should brown in five minutes. The bread will 
rise in the oven, so it is best not to let it rise too 
high before baking it. It should not begin to brown 
until it has been in the oven ten minutes, and should 
always be placed where the heat will be greatest at 
the bottom of the pan, causing it to rise before it 
browns. Should it brown too quickly, protect it 



BREAD. 141 

with a piece of paper laid over it ; and it should be 
attended to constantly, and after the crust begins to 
brown, turn carefully, that it may be evenly browned 
all over. When thoroughly done it will be brown 
all over, and have a hollow sound when knocked 
with the knuckles. Remove from the pan as soon 
as done, tip against something, that the air may 
reach all sides, and if you want a crisp crust do not 
cover it. If a soft crust is desired, wrap in a linen 
cloth. Do not put away until perfectly cold and 
keep in a clean jar or box. Never keep a cloth in 
the box; remove all crumbs and stale pieces, and 
scald out every two or three days. 

BREAD MADE WITH WATER. 

2 qts. sifted flour. i-J- tbsp. butter, or lard. 

I tsp. salt. I pt. boiling water. 

J cake compressed yeast, dissolved in ^ c. luke- 
warm water. -J tbsp. sugar. 

Put the salt, sugar and lard in a bowl, pour on the 
boiling water, stir well. Dissolve the yeast in the 
^ c. lukewarm water, and when liquid in the bowl 
is lukewarm, add the yeast. Cut in the flour with 
a knife, adding a cup at a time ; as it thickens beat 
thoroughly with the knife ; when thick enough to 
knead turn out on a well floured board, flour the 
hands well and knead by drawing the dough farthest 
from you towards the centre, and press down with 
the palm of the hand. Continue until the dough is 
long and narrow, turn half way round and begin 
kneading again. Knead until it does not stick to 
the board, put in a greased pan or bowl, cover well, 
and let rise till double its size. You may not be 



142 THE YOUNG COOK S GUIDE. 

able to use all of the two quarts of flour at the first 
kneading. When risen, turn out on a floured board, 
knead until the large bubbles are all broken up, and 
using the flour sparingly, shape into loaves, put in a 
well greased pan, prick with a fork two or three 
places, cover with a damp cloth, set in a warm place 
to rise. When risen bake. It should take from 40 
to 60 m., according to the sized loaves. By keeping 
the bread covered with a damp cloth during all the 
rising, a very delicate and delicious crust is formed. 

- BREAD MADE WITH MILK. 
2 qts. sifted flour. i tbsp. butter, or lard. 

1 tsp. salt. I pt. scalded milk. 

J cake compressed yeast, dissolved in ^ c. luke- 
warm milk. -I tbsp. sugar. 

Proceed the same as for bread made with water. 

BREAD WITH POTATOES. 

2 qts. sifted flour. i-J- tbsp. butter, or lard. 
I tsp. salt. I pt. boiling water. 

J cake compressed yeast, dissolved in -J- c. luke- 
warm water. ^ c. mashed potato. 

Proceed the same as for bread made with water, 
putting the potato in the bowl with the butter, salt, 
and sugar, and pouring the water on gradually, 
mashing the potato free from lumps. 

GRAHAM BREAD. 

I pt. milk (scalded.) 2 c. white flour. 

I tsp. salt. -J c. graham flour (sifted.) 

I tbsp. butter, or lard. 3 tbsp. sugar. 

i cake compressed yeast, dissolved in J- c. lukewarm 
milk. 



ROLLS. 143 

Prepare as for bread made with water, making a 
moister dough by using less flour, possibly not all 
that is given, as flour differs. It is best to set it in 
the morning, as it sours sooner than white bread, 
and should be baked in not quite as hot an oven. 

ROLLS. 

J c. lard. I tbsp. sugar. 

■J tsp. salt. 3i c. flour. 

I c. scalded milk. J (generous) cake yeast. 
Prepare as for bread made with water, kneading 
very little ; set aside in greased bowl covered with 
damp cloth ; when risen, turn out on a slightly floured 
board, turn over with a knife, so that all may be 
slightly floured ; do not knead, roll out \ of inch thick, 
cut into shape and put in well greased pan, cover with 
damp cloth, let rise to double their size, in a warm 
place; bake in an oven that will brown a little flour 
in one minute. They should bake in 15 m. Turn 
out of the pan at once, let them lay upside down 
for I m.; serve hot. Be very careful to have no dry 
flour on rolls or bread when they go in the oven, as 
they will have a floury look when done. Use very 
little flour when shaping, and very little on the hands 
and rolling pin. 

TWIN ROLLS. 
Prepare as for rolls and cut out two small rounds • 
spread one with a little melted butter, lay the other 
on top and bake. The lower one may be made a 
size larger than the upper one if desired. 

, CRESCENTS. 

Are made by rolling the dough \ in. thick, cut 



144 ■ THE YOUNG COOK S GUIDE. 

in pieces 4 in. square, then into triangles. Roll up, 
pulling the point over and under the roll, turning 
the ends round like a horseshoe. 

SWEDISH ROLLS. 

When rolled out, spread with soft butter with a 
knife or pastry brush, sprinkle with a little cinna- 
mon mixed with a little sugar (allow -J- tsp. cinna- 
mon to -J c. sugar), a little grated lemon rind and a 
few currants. Roll up like a jelly roll, cut slices off 
the end -J of an inch thick, lay the side cut down on 
a well greased pan, let rise and bake. 

WHITE MOUNTAIN ROLLS. 

I pt. milk. I tsp. salt. 

i c. butter. Whites 2 eggs. 

J c. sugar. 7 c. flour. 

■J cake compressed yeast dissolved in J c. luke- 
warm water. 
Prepare as for rolls, leaving out the eggs. When 
risen, add the eggs beaten stiff, beat and cut them in 
with a knife, let rise again, turn out on a floured 
board, roll out and cut into shapes, put on a well 
greased pan, not too near together, let rise and bake 
in a hot oven. 

PARKER HOUSE ROLLS. 

1 pt. scalded milk. -J- c. butter. 

I tbsp. sugar. 4 c. flour. Whites 2 eggs. 

-J cake compressed ^'yeast dissolved in J c. luke- 
warm milk. 
Prepare as for rolls. When risen, add the eggs 
well beaten, cut in well with a knife, knead for a 



BREAD. 145 

couple of minutes, return to the bowl, cover and let 
rise, turn out and knead very little, roll out and cut 
into small rounds, butter half the round, fold over, 
press the fold,Jay on a well greased pan ; when risen 
to double their size bake in a hot oven. Brush over 
with melted butter as soon as done. 

TWISTS. 
J c. lard. i tsp. salt.* 

3 c. flour. I c. milk. 

•J cake compressed yeast. %; tbsp. sugar. 

Scald the milk, pour it on to the lard, sugar and 
salt ; when lukewarm add the yeast, which has been 
dissolved in quarter of a cup of lukewarm water ; 
beat in the flour, cover and set to rise. When risen 
to double its size, roll out one-quarter of an inch 
thick, cut into strips one-quarter of an inch wide and 
four inches long. Brush these over with a little 
melted butter, make a braid out of three strips and 
put on a well greased pan not too near together. 
Cover and let rise till double their size, and bake in 
a hot oven ten minutes. 

CURRANT BUNNS. 

I c. milk, scalded. i ssp. salt. 
I tbsp. sugar. 2 c. flour. 

1 egg. -J c. currants. 

2 ssp. cinnamon. 2 tbsp. melted butter. 
J cake yeast dissolved in J c. lukewarm milk. 

Pour the milk on to the sugar and salt, beat the 
egg well and add it ; when lukewarm, add the yeast, 
then cut and beat in the flour. Let rise, well cov- 
ered ; when risen, add the melted butter, currants and 
cinnamon, beat in thoroughly and let rise again. 



146 THE YOUNG COOK'S GUIDE. 

When risen turn out, shape into small round cakes 
and put close together on well greased pan, let rise 
and bake. Should be served hot. 

RAISIN BUNNS. 

i c. lard. 2 tbsp. sugar. 

i tbsp. salt, 3 c. flour. . 

I '^gg' f c. raisins, stoned. 

i cake compressed yeast, i c. milk. 
Scald the milk, pour it on to the lard, sugar and 
salt ; when lukewarm add the yeast which has been 
dissolved in J c. lukewarm water. Cut in the flour 
and give a thorough beating. Cover with a damp 
cloth and set to rise. When risen double its size, 
beat the egg well, and add with the raisins, which 
have been stoned and cut into quarters. ■ Beat it 
thoroughly, cover, and set to rise again. When 
risen again, put by the spoonful into buttered patty 
pans, cover and stand in a warm place 15m.; bake 
in a hot oven 15 m. These may be set at ten A. M. 
and baked for six o'clock supper. 

BISCUITS, GEMS AND MUFFINS. 
All quick preparations of hot biscuits are made 
light by the use of soda and cream of tartar, soda 
and sour milk, or baking-powder. Baking-powder is 
a preparation of cream of tartar, which is an acid, 
and soda, which is an alkali, with a small quantity 
of corn starch or flour to preserve and keep them. 
Strong alkalies are corrosive poisons and injure the 
inside coating of the stomach, but when soda is 
properly combined with an acid, carbonic acid gas is 
formed, and the poisonous property is lost, the resi- 
due from the union being Rochelle salt. Cream of 



GEMS AND MUFFINS. 1 4/ 

tartar is very expensive and consequently is freely 
adulterated with alum or ammonia, very harmful 
substances, and unless purchased from a reliable 
chemist is best not used at all ; and as great care 
should be used in combining soda and cream of 
tartar, that the results may not be injurious to 
health, it is far better to buy a good, pure baking- 
powder, which has been carefully prepared by a 
chemist, than to risk the haphazard measurements 
of a careless cook. After having carefully and 
thoroughly tested, in all of my class work, lectures, 
and at home, the " Cleveland Superior Baking Pow 
der" has never failed to give the best, results. It is 
more economical, less being needed than other pow- 
ders ; and the food prepared with it keeps moist 
longer and has a better taste. 

Soda may be combined with the lactic acid found 
in sour milk ; the proportion used being i level tsp. 
soda to I pt. thick sour milk. 

Soda also will unite with the acetic acid contained 
in molasses, the proportion being i level tsp. to i c. 
of molasses, for batters, and ^ tsp. soda to i c. mo- 
lasses, for doughs. All preparations in which soda 
is combined with an acid, should have, as far as pos- 
sible, the soda added at the last, and cooked imme- 
diately, as moisture hastens the chemical change, 
and the food should be cooked before the carbonic 
acid gas escapes, that it may be light. 

BISCUITS. 

f tbsp. lard. -J tsp. salt. 

I scant c. milk. i pt. flour. 

2 tsp. Cleveland's baking-powder. 



148 THE YOUNG COOK'S GUIDE. 

Sift the baking-powder, salt and flour, rub in the 
lard with the tips of the fingers, moisten with the 
milk, using a knife to mix with ; use only enough 
milk to make a soft dough. Turn out on a well- 
floured board, sprinkle a little flour over the top, pat 
down to -J inch thick with a rolling pin, cut out and 
put in well-greased pan. Bake in a hot oven about 
10 m. Do not have any dry flour on the biscuits 
when they go in the oven. Cut as economically as 
possible, that you may have small bits left. 

DROP BISCUITS. 

2 c. flour. ^ tsp. salt. 

1 tbsp. lard. i scant c. milk. 

2 tsp. Cleveland's baking-powder. 

Sift the salt, baking-powder and flour, rub in the 
lard with the tips of the fingers, add the milk, cut- 
ting in with a knife; mix as little as possible; when 
all the flour is wet, drop by the teaspoonful on well- 
buttered pan, putting them far apart that they may 
be browned all over. These are very quickly made, 
save the trouble of a board and rolling pin, and are 
delicious. 

GEMS. 

2 c. flour. I tbsp. melted butter. 
I c. milk. i tsp. salt. 

2 tsp. Cleveland's baking-powder. 
Sift the flour, salt and baking-powder, add the 
milk gradually, beating smooth ; when all is used, 
add the butter, pour into hot, buttered gem pans 
and bake in a hot oven 20 m. 



GEMS AND MUFFINS. I49 



EGG GEMS. 



2 c. flour. 2 eggs. 

2 c. milk. i tsp. salt. 

i tbsp. sugar. 2 tbsp. melted butter. 

2 tsp. Cleveland's baking-powder. 
Sift the flour, salt, baking-powder and sugar. 
Beat the eggs light (white and yolk together), add 
the milk, pour into the flour gradually, beating 
smooth, add the melted butter, give a good beating, 
pour into piping hot buttered gem pans, and bake in 
a very hot oven -J hour. Give a thorough beating 
each time you fill the pans. 

CORN MEAL MUFFINS. 

1 c. flour. I c. sweet milk (scant.) 
i c. yellow corn meal. I tbsp. butter, melted. 
i c. sugar. -J tsp. salt. 

2 tsp. Cleveland's baking-powder. i egg. 

Sift the flour, meal, salt and baking-powder, add 
the sugar, beat the egg, add the milk to it, stir into 
the flour, add the butter, beat well, bake in well- 
greased gem pans 30 m. 

CORN BREAD. 

2 c. flour. 2 c. sweet milk (scant.) 

I c. yellow corn meal. 2 tbsp. butter, melted. 

^ c. sugar. I tsp. salt. 

4 tsp. Cleveland's baking-powder. 2 eggs. 

Proceed as for corn meal muffins ; bake in a broad, 
shallow pan, well-greased, in a hot oven for 30 m. 
Cut in square pieces, being careful to hold the knife 
perpendicularly, so as not to make the hot bread 
heavy. 



150 THE YOUNG COOK'S GUIDE. 

GRAHAM GEMS. 

2 c. graham flour, sifted. 2 eggs. 

1 c. wheat flour. -J tsp. salt. 
i c. sugar. 2j- c. milk. 

2 tsp. Cleveland's baking-powder. J c. melted butter. 
Sift the flour, sugar, salt and baking-powder, beat 

the eggs, add the milk to them, pour on to the flour 
gradually, beat till smooth, add the butter and put 
into piping hot buttered gem pans, and bake about 
30 m. 

QUICK MUFFINS. 

3 c. flour. -J tsp. salt. 
2^ c. milk. i tbsp. sugar. 

3 level tsp. cottolene. i-J- tsp. Cleveland's baking- 
powder. 
Sift the flour, salt, baking-powder, and sugar ; 
soften the cottolene. Stir the milk into the flour 
quickly, add the cottolene, put into small gem pans 
which have been greased with cottolene and heated 
on the side of the fire. Bake in a hot oven about 
20 m. 

BREAKFAST MUFFINS. 

3 c. sifted flour. 2 eggs. 

2 c. milk. I tsp. salt. 

3 level tsp. cottolene. i tbsp. sugar. 

2 tsp. Cleveland's baking-powder. 
Sift the flour, salt, sugar, and baking-powder. 
Soften the cottolene. Beat the eggs well, add the 
milk to them, stir into the flour quickly, add the 
cottolene, and put in hot gem pans, which have been 
greased with cottolene. Bake 20 m. in hot oven. 



GEMS AND MUFFINS. 151 

MUFFINS. 

2 c. flour. 2 eggs. 

f c. milk. -J c. butter, melted. 

•J tsp. salt. 2 tsp. Cleveland's baking-powder. 

Sift flour, baking-powder, and salt. Beat the eggs 
well, add the milk to them ; stir in quickly to the 
flour, add the butter, and bake in hot, well greased 
muffin pans, in very hot oven, about 15 m. 

YEAST MUFFINS. 

I pt. milk, scalded. 2 eggs. 

3 c. sifted flour. -J tbsp. sugar. 

1 tbsp. butter. i tsp. salt. 

■J cake compressed yeast, dissolved in -J c. lukewarm 
milk. 
Pour the milk on to the butter, salt and sugar ; 
when lukewarm add the yeast, then add the flour ; 
give a thorough beating, set aside to rise over night. 
In the morning beat the yolks well, add them, then 
the well beaten whites; let rise 15 m., put into 
greased pans and bake in the oven 15 m.; or you 
can bake on griddle on top of the stove. 

SALLY LUNN. 

2 c. flour. • 2 eggs. 

■J tsp. salt. f c. milk. 

2 tsp. Cleveland's baking-powder. ^ c. melted butter. 
Sift the flour, salt, and baking-powder ; beat the 
yolks well, add the milk, stir into the flour, beat till 
smooth, add the butter, and lastly, the well beaten 
whites. Do not beat much after the whites are 
added. Bake in hot, buttered pans, in very hot oven, 
about 20 m. 



152 THE YOUNG COOK'S GUIDE. 

SALLY LUNN (with yeast.) 

I c. milk scalded. i egg. 

■J tsp. salt. J cake yeast, dissolved in J c. 

I tbsp. sugar. lukewarm milk. 

I tbsp. melted butter, i c. flour. 

Pour the milk on to the salt and sugar ; when 
lukewarm add the yeast ; stir in the flour and beat 
till smooth. Set aside to rise, well covered ; when 
risen, add the egg, well beaten, and the melted butter. 
Beat well, put in buttered tins, and let rise 15 m.; 
bake in a hot oven. 



EGGS. 

Although eggs are a type of perfect food, they are 
so highly concentrated that many persons cannot eat 
them, and when improperly cooked they are indi- 
gestible for any one. They are very nutritious, and 
take the place of meat at a much less cost. The 
white of egg is albumen, and the yolk contains albu- 
men, oil and sulphur. In cooking them remember 
that albumen hardens at i68^, and never raise the 
liquid in which they are cooked above that tempera- 
ture. You may preserve them for some time by 
coating the shells with anything that will keep out 
the air ; the shells being porous let the water evapor- 
ate from the egg, the air enters, and causes decom- 
position. You may dip them in suet and pack in 
salt, w^ith the small end downward. They should 
always have the shells wiped off and be kept in a cool 
place. Use the dark-shelled ones for anything that 
you desire well colored, such as sponge cake, cus- 
tards, etc. They are much richer than the lighter 
shelled ones. 

SOFT BOILED EGG. 

Cover the egg with boiling water and stand where 
the water will simmer for 6 or lo m., according to 
the individual taste. 

HARD BOILED EGG. 
Cover with boiling water and simmer 20 m. 

, DROPPED EGG. 
Toast a round of bread for each egg, butter it and 

153 



I 54 THE YOUNG COOK S GUIDE. 

lay on a hot platter. Fill a frying-pan f full of boil- 
ing water, add a little salt and a very little vinegar. 
Break each egg carefully into a saucer, and slip the 
egg into the water. Keep the pan where the water 
will just simmer. When the wiiite is firm take up 
one at a time on a skimmer, trim the edges and slip 
off on to the toast. Shake a very little salt and 
white pepper over each egg and serve. 

SCRAMBLED EGGS. 
Beat 2 eggs slightly with a fork, add a scant quarter 
of a cup of milk, |- tsp, salt, and a little pepper. Put 
•J tbsp. butter into a perfectly clean, small, frying-pan ; 
when melted, pour in the egg and cook, stirring all 
the time with a knife, until the egg is firm, but not 
hard. Pile on buttered toast, sprinkle a little chop- 
ped parsley over and serve hot. 

BAKED EGGS. 

Cover a buttered dish with seasoned buttered 
crumbs. Break each egg carefully and put on the 
dish, and cover with seasoned crumbs. Bake till the 
crumbs are brown. 

OMELET. (Plain.) 

2 eggs, I tbsp. milk, J tsp. salt, a very little pep- 
per. Beat the eggs well, add the milk, salt and pep- 
per, turn into a hot, buttered frying-pan. Slip a 
round-bladed knife round the edges as it thickens, 
and keep the pan turned, that it may be evenly 
browned. When brown, fold over carefully, letting 
the part not done pour on to the pan ; fold this up 
on top, put on a hot dish, by holding the dish over 
the omelet, and turning the frying pan over. 



EGGS. 155 

OMELET No. 2. 
2 eggs. I ssp. salt. i ssp. pepper. 

Beat the yolks with a dover beater till thick and 
creamy, add the salt and pepper. Beat the whites 
till stiff and dry, and pour the yolks over them, cut- 
ting and folding them in. Do not stir or beat. But- 
ter a small, hot frying-pan, put in by the teaspoonful. 
Watch and turn the pan that it may cook evenly ; 
when light brown underneath, and you can tell by 
slipping a knife under and raising a little, put in an 
oven, or hold a lid over to dry the top, slip a knife 
under, fold over and turn on to a hot dish. It must 
be served at once or it will fall. 

OMELET No. 3. 

Beat the yolks of two eggs till thick, add ^ tsp. 
salt, J ssp. pepper and i tbsp. milk. Turn into a 
hot buttered frying-pan. Beat the whites stiff, and 
when the omelet is set, pile the whites up and set in 
the oven a few minutes. Roll over and serve. 
These may be made in individual ones, and a num- 
ber of them on a platter look very attractive. 

HAM OMELETS. 

Prepare as for omelet No. i, using no salt; when 
the omelet is almost set, sprinkle with chopped, 
cooked ham, fold over and serve. You may use any 
kind of meat you may have. 

CREAMY OMELET. 

2 eggs, J c. milk, ^ tsp. salt, i tsp. butter, ^ tbsp. 

flour, "I ssp. pepper. Heat the milk, cook the flour 

and butter, add the hot milk gradually, beat well, 

set aside to cool. When cold, beat the yolks till 



156 THE YOUNG COOK'S GUIDE. 

thick and creamy, add the pepper and salt, cut inta 
the cooked milk and flour, beat the whites till stiff, 
cut in to the other mixture, put by the teaspoonful 
on a hot, buttered frying-pan. When the under side 
is brown fold over and serve. 

ORANGE OMELET. 

2 eggs, 3 tbsp. orange juice and pulp, 3 tbsp. pow- 
dered sugar. Separate the eggs ; beat the yolks till 
light and creamy, add the sugar, beat well. Beat 
the yolks till dry, fold the yolks into the whites. 
Add the orange juice and pulp, fold lightly, put into 
a hot, buttered frying-pan, by the teaspoonful. 
When done, fold over and sprinkle with powdered 
sugar, and score with a red-hot poker. 

OMELET SOUFFLE. 

Yolks of 2 eggs. 2 heaping tsp. powd. sugar. 

Whites of four eggs. J tsp. lemon or vanilla extract. 
Beat the yolks till thick and creamy, add the sugar 
gradually, beat the whites stiff, fold the yolks into 
the whites, cutting them in with a knife ; add the 
flavoring, put into a well-buttered baking dish by 
the teaspoonful. Cook in a moderate oven about 
15 m.^ till well puffed up and brown, and when a 
straw comes out clean it is done. 

STUFFED EGGS. 

Boil 3 eggs 20 m. Cut lengthwise, remove the 
yolks. Add to them |- tsp. butter, 2 drops onion 
juice, half the quantity of deviled ham. Fill the 
whites, smooth, press together, lay them on the re- 
mainder of the yolk mixture on a shallow dish. 



EGGS. 157 

Cover with white sauce, sprinkle with large, but- 
tered bread crumbs, and bake till a delicate brown. 

BIRD'S NEST. , 

3 eggs, 3 rounds of toast, i|- ssp. salt, 3 tbsp. dev- 
iled ham. Break the eggs carefully, put the whites 
in a bowl, and keep each yolk in its own shell by 
standing the shell up against something. Spread 
the ham on the toast, heat the whites stiff and heap 
on the toast, make a hole in the centre, and put 
one yolk in each hole. Handle the eggs very care- 
fully, so as not to break the yolks. Set in the oven 
for 3 m. Serve at once. 

SPANISH EGGS. 

I c. rice. I tbsp. salt. 

6 eggs. 2 qts. boiling water. 

I tbsp. butter. i c. bread crumbs. 

Pick over and wash the rice, put it with the salt 
into the boiling water and boil till the rice is tender, 
about thirty minutes. Drain through a colander. 
Spread the rice on a dish, make small hollows for 
the eggs, and lay each egg in a hollow. Melt the 
butter and pour over the crumbs, which should be 
large, white ones ; cover with the crumbs, and bake 
till the crumbs are brown. 

CREAMED EGGS. 

I c. milk, hot. J tsp. salt. 

I tbsp. butter. -J ssp. white pepper. 

I tbsp. flour. I tbsp. parsley. 

3 hard-boiled eggs. 
Dresden patties or toasted bread cases. 
Chop the whites and half of the yolks of the eggs. 
8 



158 THE YOUNG COOK'S GUIDE. 

Cook the butter, flour, salt and pepper, add the milk 
gradually, stirring hard, then the eggs and parsley. 
Fill the cases and press the other half of the egg 
yolk through a fine sieve on top. 

EGGS IN DRESDEN PATTY CASES. 

Prepare the cases, poach one egg for each case, 
trim neatly, slip into the case ; put a little salt, pep- 
per and chopped parsley on top of each egg and 
serve at once. 

POACHED EGGS. 

Have a shallow pan of boiling water, into which 
put a little salt. Break each egg carefully into a 
saucer and slip gently into the water. Draw the 
pan where the water will just simmer. When the 
whites are firm, lift up one egg at a time, trim, and 
lay on buttered toast. 

EGGS IN TOMATOES. 

Choose round, medium-sized tomatoes Cut off a 
slice and scoop out some of the tomato ; dust a little 
salt and pepper in the tomato, and put one raw egg 
in the cavity. Bake in a hot oven till the egg is 
done ; serve on rounds of toast. 

EGG WITH CHEESE. 

^ ^ggs. I tbsp. butter. 

J tsp. salt. spk. cayenne. 

3 tbsp. grated Parmesan. 
Beat the eggs slightly, add the seasoning ; put 
the butter in an omelet pan ; when hot, add the 
eggs and the cheese, and stir till thick and smooth. 
Serve on toast. 



EGGS. 159 

EGGS FOR BREAKFAST. 

Cut slices of stale bread one-and-one-half inch 
thick. Scoop out the middle, leaving^^the bottom 
and sides half an inch thick. Toast the rounds, put 
a raw egg in the centre of each, and bake in the 
oven till the egg is set. 



X 



SALADS. 

To have a delicious salad, everything used for it 
should be very cold, the lettuce or greens fresh and 
crisp, and the dressing perfectly smooth. Keep 
everything on the ice and never mix mayonnaise 
with the salad, until just before using. You may pre- 
pare a French dressing and marinate the salad with 
it, an hour or so before it is needed. Lay the let- 
tuce in ice water for an hour or two, dry thoroughly 
and carefully on a towel. Never cut lettuce with a 
knife, but pull it apart with the fingers, reserving the 
small leaves from the heart to decorate with. Do 
not use any leaves that are discolored or wilted. 
Use only the white, crisp part of celery, saving the 
rest for stews or soup. Keep it on the ice until 
served. 

MAYONNAISE. 

I tbsp. mustard. i pt. salad oil. 

I " sugar. J c. vinegar. 

J ssp. Cayenne. ^ lemon. 

I tsp. salt. I c. whipped, cream. 

Yolks of 3 raw eggs. 
Cut an onion in half, rub round the bowl once, put 
in the dry ingredients, add the yolks, beat with a 
dover" beater till thick. Add the oil, a few drops at 
a time, beating hard all the time, and when the mix- 
ture becomes too thick, add a few drops of vinegar 
to thin it ; continue with the oil until all is used ; 
add the vinegar and lemon last. Just before serving 

1 60 



SALADS. l6l 

add the whipped cream. Should it curdle, some- 
times a little vinegar will bring it smooth again ; if 
this fails, take the yolk of another raw egg, beat well 
in another bowl and add gradually the curdled mix- 
ture to it, beating hard all the time. This never 
fails to bring it back. The cause of its curdling, is 
either that the oil is added too fast, or that the in- 
gredients are not cold. Keep the eggs and oil on 
the ice, and if possible stand the bowl in which you 
make it, in a pan of ice. 

FRENCH DRESSING. 

I ssp. salt. I tbsp. vinegar. 3 tbsp. oil. 
■J- ssp. white pepper. 
Mix the salt and pepper, add a little oil. Stir and 
add a little vinegar, and then the rest of the oil. 

BOILED DRESSING. 

1 tsp. mustard. 2 tbsp. sugar. 

2 " salt. I" c. vinegar. 
J ssp. cayenne. i c. cream. 

2 tbsp. clarified butter. 3 eggs. 

Mix the dry ingredients, moisten with the vinegar 
and pour on to the beaten egg, stirring well. Add 
the cream. Clarify the butter by melting, and after 
letting the salt settle, pour off the liquid and add to 
the dressing. Place the bowl in a pan of boiling 
water, and stir constantly till it thickens like custard. 
Remove from the fire and strain and cool. The acid 
of the vinegar does not act as quickly on the cream 
as it does on milk. This dressing is very delicious, 
and for those who cannot take oil, is a very good 
substitute. 



l62 THE YOUNG COOK'S GUIDE. 

MAYOXXAISE TARTAR 
Prepare the same as for mayonnaise without the 
cream, and add i tbsp. each of chopped oHves^ 
capers, pickles, and parsley. 

POTATO SALAD. 

3 good sized potatoes. 2 tbsp. chopped parsley.- 

I cold boiled beet. i small onion. 

I hard boiled egg. Salt and pepper. 

French dressing. 

Have the potato boiled and cold, cut in thin 
slices. Cut the beet in thin slices, then with a fancy 
cutter cut into shapes. Chop the onion irrf fine. 
Put a layer of potato on a dish, then a few pieces of 
beet, sprinkle with dressing and a little onion and 
parsley ; repeat till all is used. Decorate with pars- 
ley and egg, the 3-olk and white chopped separately. 

LETTUCE SALAD. 
Break of^ the leaves, wash carefully and lay in 
cold water, ice water is best, till ready to serve. 
Take up the leaves, shake carefully and dry gently 
between two towels. Arrange in a salad bowl, with 
the small leaves in the centre, and serve with French 
dressing. 

CHICKEN SALAD. 
Remove skin, fat, gristle and bones from cold 
cooked chicken, and cut into small cubes. Marinate 
with a French dressing and set in the refrigerator 
for three hours. Clean and cut up two-thirds as 
much white celery as j^ou have chicken, wash and 
put in ice water till needed. Allow i-J- cups of may- 
onnaise to I qt. of salad. Just before serving drain, 
and dry the celery thoroughly, add the chicken and 



SALADS. 163 

mix a little of the mayonnaise with it. Put in a 
salad bowl on a bed of crisp lettuce leaves, cover the 
top with the mayonnaise, smoothing it with a silver 
knife ; garnish with the small white celery leaves and 
olives. 

LOBSTER SALAD. 

The meat of two boiled lobsters weighing 2^ lbs. 
each, the tender leaves of two or three small heads 
of lettuce, i^ c. mayonnaise. Cut the lobster meat 
into dice, season with French dressing, lay on the 
ice for 3 hours. Wash the lettuce carefully and lay 
in ice water for 2 hours. When ready to serve, drain 
and dry the lettuce on a towel, pull apart the larger 
leaves with the fingers, holding gently so as not to 
wilt them ; mix -J c. mayonnaise with it, and put on 
a bed of lettuce leaves, with the rest of the mayon- 
naise spread over the top. Decorate with the small 
claws. 

VEGETABLE SALAD. 

I qt. cold boiled potatoes, i tbsp. chopped onion. 
I c. '* " beets. -J c. '' celery. 

■J c. " " carrots. 2 hard boiled eggs. 
I tbsp. chopped parsley. French dressing, twice 

the recipe. 
Cut the vegetables into cubes or fancy shapes ; 
sprinkle with i tsp. salt, |- tsp. pepper. Chop the 
onion very fine and add to the French dressing. 
Mix the vegetables in alternate layers, rub a little of 
the yolk of the egg through a fine sieve over each 
layer, and sprinkle the French dressing over. Dec- 
orate with a border of chopped white of egg, pars- 
ley and the yolk rubbed through a sieve. 



164 THE YOUNG COOK'S GUIDE. 

EGG SALAD. 

Boil 3 eggs 20 m., put on ice. When ready to 
serve chop the yolks and whites separately. Make 
a bed of water cresses, press the yolk through a fine 
strainer in the centre, surround it with the whites, 
sprinkle French dressing over the whole. 

MARGUERITE SALAD. 

Cut whites of hard boiled eggs into small pieces 
to resemble petals. Arrange in wreaths on flat 
leaves of lettuce, using one leaf for one wreath ; 
moisten the yolks with a little boiled dressing, put 
through a strainer into the centre of the wreaths. 
Serve with boiled dressing. 

TOMATO SALAD. 

Pour boiling water over small, round tomatoes, 
remove the skins and lay on the ice. When ready 
to serve, put one tomato on a leaf of lettuce, cut off 
a very little bit of the top ; put a tsp. of mayonnaise 
on the top and serve. 

TOMATO BASKETS. 

Choose round tomatoes of medium size. With 
a small knife make baskets with handles ; scoop out 
the tomato from the basket, and fill the baskets with 
cubes of raw tomato and small pieces of lettuce. 
Put a tsp. of mayonnaise on top of each, tie the 
handles with a ribbon, and serve on bed of greens. 

SWEETBREAD SALAD. 

2 prepared sweetbreads. 2 tsp. oil. 
i tsp. salt. -J- ssp. white pepper. 

2 " vinegar. ^ c. cooked peas. 

•J c. mushrooms, quartered. 



SALADS. 165 

Cut the sweetbreads into dice. Mix the salt, pep- 
per and a little vinegar ; add a little oil and a little 
vinegar till all are used. Mix it with the sweet- 
breads, peas and mushrooms. Just before serving 
mix a little mayonnaise with it, and serve in lettuce 
with mayonnaise on top. 



SANDWICHES. 

The bread should be fine grained, at least twelve 
hours old ; the knife very sharp and the butter soft. 
Cut the crust off the loaf, butter each slice very 
slightly before cutting off the loaf. Be careful to 
have the slices as thin as possible, and of even thick- 
ness. Have the paste soft so that it may not break 
the bread when spreading on. Butter the bread all 
over but very slightly, spread with a very thin layer 
of paste ; put on another slice of bread which has 
been buttered slightly, press together and cut into 
triangles. Pile up on a plate, cover with a damp 
napkin and keep in a cool place till used. Any kind 
of cold meat, using a little of the fat, may be 
chopped to a fine paste, well seasoned and used. 
Use a little mustard with ham and tongue. 

CELERY SANDWICHES. 

Butter very thin slices of bread, chop crisp white 
celery fine, season well with salt and pepper and lay 
between the slices. 

SALAD SANDWICHES. 

Chop cold bits of turkey, chicken or lobster very 
fine. Mix a very little mayonnaise with the meat. 
Put a lettuce leaf on a very thin slice of bread, not 
buttered ; then a little salad, another leaf of lettuce, 
and bread again. They may be wrapped in oil pa- 
per for picnics or traveling. 

1 66 



SANDWICHES. 1 6/ 

FRENCH SANDWICHES. 
Purchase at a first-class baker's what are called fin- 
ger rolls. Split and remove most of the inside. 
Butter the inside very slightly, fill with any mixture 
you desire ; chopped ham, tongue, chicken or salad 
of any kind. If salad is used, do not butter the rolls, 
and have the pieces of meat, lettuce or celery very 
small. Tie the rolls with different colored ribbons. 

CHEESE SANDWICHES. 

3 ^ggs, I tbsp. cheese, grated, i level tbsp. butter, 
I spk. cayenne, a little grated tongue or ham. 

Beat the eggs, put the butter into a frying-pan, 
add the eggs, cayenne and cheese, stir over the fire 
till it thickens ; season with a little salt ; if the ham 
be very salt do not use any. Spread the paste on 
rounds of thin bread, either toasted or fried, sprinkle 
the ham or tongue over it, and serve. These are 
very nice for Sunday night tea. 

HAM AND CHICKEN SANDWICHES. 
Chop equal parts of cold roast or boiled chicken 
and ham, or veal and ham, very fine ; put in a fry- 
ing-pan with enough veal or chicken gravy to make 
a paste. Season with salt, pepper and a very little 
cayenne. Cook five minutes, spread out to cool. 
When cool spread between thin slices of buttered 
bread. 

GINGER SANDWICHES. 
Cut candied ginger into thin shavings and lay be- 
tween very thin slices of bread and butter. Use 
only one thin layer of ginger in each sandwich. 



CROQUETTES. 

Croquettes are mixtures of a thick white sauce 
with cooked meat, fish, grains and vegetables. 
They can be made without the sauce, but are not as 
delicate. Have the material as soft as can be 
molded, and form by putting a tablespoonful of the 
mixture on to a board covered with fine sifted, sea- 
soned bread crumbs. Roll carefully into a ball, let- 
ting none of the crumbs get inside, but a thin coat- 
ing outside. Hold the fingers together and press 
and roll the ball on the board till like a cylinder. 

Take the croquette gently in the hand, flatten one 
end on the board, turn the hand over and flatten the 
other end. Lay on a corner of the board until all 
are done. Beat one egg, yolk and white, slightly ; add 
2 tbsp. cold water to it (this is to economize on the 
egg); put one croquette in and cover with egg by dip- 
ping the egg up over it with a spoon or knife, being 
very careful not to touch the croquette. See that 
all the bubbles of the egg are broken, and the cro- 
quette have a thorough coating of egg, as if there is 
one spot not covered with the egg the croquette will 
burst or become fat soaked. It is the albumen of 
the egg that will harden and make the crust, to pre- 
vent the fat from entering. Remove the croquette 
from the egg by slipping a broad knife under. Put 
on a board thickly covered with crumbs and cover 
with crumbs the second time. Dip the frying basket 
in the hot fat, lay on a plate and put a few in care- 

i68 



CROQUETTES. 169 

fully, not allowing them to touch each other, and 
not putting too many in at a time, as they will chill 
the fat. Test the fat every time before putting them 
in. It should brown a piece of bread in 40 seconds. 
Put the basket in slowly and do not raise it until the 
croquettes are done. They ought to brown in one 
minute. When done, lift the basket up, drain well 
over the fat, remove the croquettes on to brown 
paper. Never put the material for croquettes in a 
very cold place, as they are apt to burst if at all 
cold when put in the fat. 

THICK CREAxM SAUCE FOR CROQUETTES. 

1 pt. hot cream. 4 heaping tbsp. flour. 

2 level tbsp. butter. ^ tsp. salt. 

f tsp. celery salt. -J ssp. white pepper. 

A few drops of onion juice. 2 tbsp. lemon juice. 
Speck of cayenne. i tbsp. chopped parsley. 

Prepare as for white sauce, adding the lemon juice 
after removing from the fire. It should be very 
thick and mixed while hot with the other ingredi- 
ents for the croquettes. You may use milk instead 
of cream, with rounded tablespoonfuls of butter. 

CHICKEN CROQUETTES. 

To one pint of cooked chicken allow f pt. thick 
cream sauce. Remove all skin, fat and gristle from 
the chicken, chop as fine as meal, add the sauce, i 
ssp. mace, a dash of nutmeg, beat well ; taste, and 
see if more salt or pepper is needed, set aside to 
cool. When cool shape into croquettes, roll in 
crumbs, egg and crumbs, and fry in hot cottolene. 



170 THE YOUNG COOIv'S GUIDE. 

LOBSTER CROQUETTES. 

I pt. lobster meat. ij c. thick cream sauce. 

1 ssp. mustard. i spk. cayenne. 

Chop the meat as fine as meal, add the sauce and 
seasoning, cool, shape into croquettes, roll in crumbs^ 
Ggg and crumbs, and fry in hot cottolene. 

LOBSTER CUTLETS. 

Prepare the same as for croquettes ; when the mix- 
ture is cool, grease a cutlet-mold with a pastry brush 
dipped in melted butter ; fill the mold with fine 
bread crumbs, throw them out, letting all adhere to 
the butter that will. Fill the mold with the cutlet 
mixture, smooth with a knife, turn out on a board 
covered with crumbs, cover with egg and crumbs 
again. Do not butter the mold except the first time» 
but fill with crumbs each time before using. Fry in 
hot cottolene. Put a small claw in the end of the 

cutlet. 

CODFISH CROQUETTES. 

2 cups cold cooked codfish, i pt. thick cream sauce. 
Flake the fish very fine, add the sauce, J ssp. cay- 
enne, J tsp. lemon juice, beat well ; when cool, shape, 
roll in crumbs, egg and crumbs, and fry in hot 

cottolene. 

SALMON CROQUETTES. 

One pound of cold cooked salmon, or f of can. 
Free the salmon from bones and oil, pick very fine 
w^ith two forks, add i pt. thick cream sauce, stir well ; 
add i ssp. cayenne, J tsp. lemon juice, few drops of 
onion juice, and salt if needed, set aside to cool ; 
shape, roll in crumbs, egg and crumbs, and fry in 
hot cottolene. 



CROQUETTES. I/I 

SWEETBREAD CROQUETTES. 

i^ c. thick cream sauce. -J c. warm boiled rice. 

I prepared sweetbread. i can mushrooms. 
Salt and pepper, if needed. 

Cut the sweetbreads and mushrooms into very 
small pieces, add the rice and enough sauce to make 
it soft enough to be handled. Taste it, and see if 
more seasoning is needed ; set aside to cool, shape 
into croquettes, roll in crumbs, egg and crumbs, and 
fry in hot cottolene. 

POTATO CROQUETTES. 
I c. boiled potato. i tsp. salt. 

i tbsp. butter. i " celery salt. 

^ tsp. chopped parsley. i ssp. white pepper. 

I egg, I spk. cayenne. 

2 drops onion juice. 
Add the seasoning to the hot mashed potato, beat 
very light, add the beaten egg ; when cool, shape, 
roll in crumbs, egg and crumbs, and fry in hot cot- 
tolene. 

RICE CROQUETTES. 

-J c. rice. I pt. hot water. 

i tsp. salt. I egg. 

I tbsp. butter. J c. cold meat, chopped fine. 

Cook the rice in the water with the salt until quite 
soft, add the egg, well beaten, the butter ; mix well 
and add the meat. When cold, shape, roll in crumbs, 
egg and crumbs, and fry in hot cottolene. 

CORNED-BEEF CROQUETTES OR BALLS. 
Chop one cup of cold cooked corned-beef very fine, 
add i c. hot mashed potato, beat well, season highly 
with a little salt, pepper, made mustard, and cayenne ; 



172 THE YOUNG COOK'S GUIDE. 

put in a few drops of onion juice, add one well 
beaten egg. Shape into croquettes or round balls, 
roll in crumbs, egg and crumbs, and fry in hot cot- 
tolene. 



FRITTER BATTER. 

Yolks of 2 eggs. I ssp. salt. 

■J c. milk. I c. flour. 

I tbsp. butter. Whites of 2 eggs. 

Beat the yolks till thick, add the milk and the 
salt, then add the butter, melted, then the flour. 
Beat till smooth, and add the well beaten whites last. 
If used for fruit, add i tsp. sugar ; if for fish or meat, 
add I tbsp. lemon juice. Beat well each time. Can 
be kept for several days. 

GAME FRITTERS. 

Stew the bones and meat till quite tender, remove 
all skin and gristle, add a few mushrooms, chopped 
fine, season well with salt, pepper, and cayenne. 
Allow I c. of meat to the fritter batter, beat well and 
drop by the spoonful into hot cottolene, and fry till 
golden brown. 

OYSTER FRITTERS. 

Salt and pepper each oyster, let stand 20 m. Dip 
each one into the fritter batter and fry in hot cotto- 
lene. 

CLAM FRITTERS. 

Drain and chop fine 25 clams. Drain again and 
add to the fritter batter. Drop by the spoonful into 
hot cottolene and fry till brown. You may use the 
liquor for making the batter if you wish a very strong 
taste. 

CORN FRITTERS. 
Add I c. corn to the fritter batter. Prepare the 

173 



174 THE YOUNG COOK'S GUIDE. 

corn by scoring down through the kernels and press- 
ing out with the back of a knife. Drop by the 
spoonful into hot cottolene and fry till delicate 
brown. 

APPLE FRITTERS. 

Core, pare, and slice whole apples, leaving the 
hole made by the core in the centre, and have the 
slices J inck thick. Mix J tsp. ground cinnamon 
with ^ c. sugar, squeeze a little lemon juice on the 
slices, sprinkle with the cinnamon and sugar, let 
stand for 20 m. Dip each slice in the batter and fry 
in hot cottolene about 4 m. Serve with foamy 
sauce. 

ORANGE FRITTERS. 
Divide the orange into sections, remove the thin 
skin with scissors, dip each section into the fritter 
batter and fry in hot cottolene. Serve with orange 
sauce. 



PUDDINGS AND DESSERTS. 

All puddings in which the milk has to be scalded 
should be made in a double boiler, as the milk is 
likely to burn before it is hot enough. When eggs 
are added to hot milk, the milk should always be 
poured on to the eggs slowly, stirring the eggs all 
the time, and then returned to the fire, and stirred 
constantly till cooked. If you pour the eggs into 
the milk it is apt to harden in lumps. Should you 
curdle the eggs and milk by cooking too long, you 
can sometimes bring it smooth again by beating at 
once with a dover beater. 

SOFT CUSTARD. 

2 c. milk. 2 tbsp. sugar. 

3 eggs. I tsp. flavoring. 
Scald the milk in a double boiler ; when the bub- 
bles are all over the top of the milk, beat the eggs, 
add the sugar, beat again, pour the hot milk slowly 
over the eggs, stirring all the time; return to the 
double boiler, and stir till it coats the spoon and is 
thick as cream. Remove at once, as it will curdle, 
strain, and set aside to cool. Add the flavoring 
when cold ; it evaporates the alcohol in the flavoring 
to add to a hot liquid, and is therefore extravagant. 

FLOATING ISLAND. 
I pt. milk. 2 tbsp. gran, sugar. 

3 eggs. I tsp. flavoring. 

3 tbsp. powdered sugar. 
Scald the milk in a double boiler, separate the eggs, 

175 



176 THE YOUNG COOK'S GUIDE. 

beat the yolks well, add the gran, sugar, pour the 
milk on to the eggs, stirring well, return to the 
double boiler and cook till thick as cream, stirring 
all the time. Strain, and when cold add the flavor- 
ing. Whip the whites till stiff, add the powdered 
sugar gradually, pour the custard in a dish and pile 
the whites up in spoonfuls on top. 

FRUIT CUSTARD. 
Make floating island, put slices of sponge cake, 
spread with jam, in the bottom of a glass dish, pour 
the Custard over them and heap on the whites. 

CHOCOLATE CUSTARD. 
Make the floating island ; just before straining 
the custard add to it one square of W. Baker & Co.'s 
No. I chocolate ; strain, when cold, pile up the beaten 
whites on the top. Use vanilla flavoring. 

BAKED CUSTARD. 
I qt. milk. 6 tbsp. sugar. 

4 ^ggs. I ssp. salt. I tsp. flavoring (vanilla.) 
Scald the milk, separate the eggs, add the sugar 
and the salt, beat well, pour the milk over the eggs 
slowly, stirring all the time, beat the whites, stir in 
lightly, add the flavoring, put into deep dish or 
cups, set in a pan of hot water. Bake about 30 m., 
until the custard is firm and shakes like jelly. 

ORANGE CUSTARD. 
I qt. milk. i|- tbsp. cornstarch. 

3 eggs. -J- ssp. salt. 

3 tbsp. gran, sugar. 3 tbsp. powd. sugar. 
Mix the cornstarch to a smooth paste, with J c. 
cold milk. Scald the rest of the milk in a double 



PUDDINGS AND DESSERTS. 1 77 

boiler. Separate the eggs, beat the yolks, add the 
cornstarch and pour the scalded milk over them, stir- 
ring well. Return to the fire, cook for 5 m., set 
aside to cool. Cut up six oranges into small pieces, 
removing all the seeds and tough membrane ; unless 
quite sweet sprinkle with sugar ; when ready to serve 
pour the custard over the oranges and pile the 
whites, which have been beaten to a stiff froth, and 
the powd. sugar, added slowly, on top of the oranges. 
Everything should be very cold in this dish. 

APPLE CUSTARD. 
Prepare the same as for orange custard and pour 
over stewed apples. See directions for stewing ap- 
ples. 

LEMON BREAD PUDDING. 

I qt. milk. i tbsp. butter. 

I pt. fine bread crumbs. i c. gran, sugar. 

4 eggs. I c. powdered sugar. 

Grated rind and juice of i lemon. 

Separate the eggs, beat the yolks, set the whites 
in a cool place. Add the gran, sugar to the yolks, 
then the milk, bread crumbs and grated rind ; bake 
in the oven about half an hour. Remove from the 
oven, beat the whites stiff, add the powd. sugar 
slowly, add the lemon juice, pile on top and stand 
in the oven with the door open for 20 m. Turn, so 
that all may be evenly browned. You may improve 
this pudding by spreading jam or preserves over it 
before putting the whites on. 

CHOCOLATE CUSTARDS. 
4 c. milk. -J tsp. vanilla, 

ic. sugar. 4 tsp. cornstarch (level). 

2 sq. W. Baker & Co.'s chocolate. 4 eggs. 



178 THE YOUNG COOK'S GUIDE. 

Scald the milk, grate the chocolate, put the choco- 
late and the sugar in the milk. Beat the yolks of 
the eggs. Mix the cornstarch with a little cold milk 
and add it to the eggs ; pour the milk over the eggs, 
return to the fire, and cook till it thickens : about 5 
m., stirring all the time. When cold, add the flavor- 
ing and put in small glasses. Beat the whites of the 
eggs stiff, add 2 tbsp. pow^d. sugar, and heap on the 
top of the pudding. 

TAPIOCA CUSTARD. 

4 tbsp. tapioca. 2 c. cold' water. 

4 c. milk. 3 eggs. 

I tsp. vanilla. -J ssp. salt. i J c. sugar. 

Soak the tapioca in the water 5 h. Scald the 
milk, add the tapioca and the salt. Beat the yolks 
of the eggs and the sugar ; when the tapioca is hot, 
add the yolks, stirring constantly, and cook for 2 m. 
like custard, stirring all the time. Turn out into a 
bowl, add the whites, which have been beaten stiff, 
and fold them in gently. Put i tsp. strawberry jam 
in a small glass ; when the tapioca is cold, flavor it, 
and fill the glasses. Serve in the glasses, very cold. 
This is a very delicious dessert. 

CUSTARD TIMBALES. 

Yolks 3 eggs. f c. scalded milk. 

I ssp. salt. I tbsp. sugar. 

Beat the yolks and the sugar, add the milk and 
salt ; bake in small, buttered timbale molds set in 
a pan of hot water, from 20 to 30 m. Set away in 
the molds till cold and hard, and serve with caramel 
sauce. Both the pudding and the sauce should be 
very cold. 



PUDDINGS AND DESSERTS. 1/9 

FRENCH BREAD PUDDING. 

1 pt. milk. Thin slices of bread and butter. 

2 eggs. 2 tbsp. gran, sugar. 
•J tsp. vanilla. 2 " powd. sugar. 

-g- c. raisins. 
Butter a medium-sized shallow tin pan. Stone 
the raisins and cut in half, lay in the pan. Cover 
with one layer of very thin slices of bread and 
butter. Beat the yolks of the eggs, lay the whites 
aside in a cool place, add the gran, sugar to the 
yolks, pour the milk over them, add the vanilla, stir 
well, pour over the bread. Bake until a delicate 
brown, remove from the oven ; beat the whites stiff, 
add the powd. sugar gradually, spread on the top, 
and bake 15 m. in a cool oven, turning often, that it 
may be evenly browned. You may spread jelly over 
the bread just before putting on the whites. 

CREAMED RICE PUDDING. 

■J c. rice. i qt. milk. 

i c. sugar. . i ssp. salt. 

|- nutmeg. 

Soak the rice in the milk 2 h.; add the salt and 
sugar, grate the nutmeg over the top. Bake in a 
moderate oven 2 hours, until the milk is almost 
absorbed. 

RICE CUSTARD. 

Fill small glasses two-thirds full of cooked rice. 
Make a custard with 3 c. milk, yolks 4 eggs, 3 tbsp. 
sugar, a speck of salt, and -J- tsp. vanilla. Pour the 
custard while hot over the rice. Set away till very 
cold. When ready to serve, whip the whites, add 3 



l80 THE YOUNG COOK'S GUIDE. 

tbsp. powd. sugar, and pile on the top. You may 
add a layer of preserve before putting on the whites. 

APPLE MERINGUE. 

Core, pare and bake four medium-sized apples till 
tender, but not broken, putting a little bit of sugar 
and grated lemon peel in the centre of each apple. 
Beat the yolks of 3 eggs, add 3 tbsp. sugar, spk. of 
salt ; add i pt. scalded milk, pour over the apples. 
Bake till the custard is firm. Remove from the 
oven, beat the whites stiff, add gradually 3 tbsp. 
powd. sugar, a few drops of lemon juice, pile on the 
top, and put in a cool oven 15 m. 

SCALLOPED APPLE. 

J c. sugar. i c. butter. 

I ssp. cinnamon. 2 c. soft bread crumbs. 

I lemon rind, grated. 3 c. sliced apple. 

Mix sugar, cinnamon and lemon rind. Melt the 
butter and pour it over the bread crumbs, tossing 
them with a fork. Butter a pudding dish, put in a 
layer of crumbs, then a layer of apple, sprinkle with 
the sugar, then a layer of crumbs, apple and sugar^ 
reserving f c. crumbs for the top. Put in the oven, 
cover with a pan, that the crumbs may not brown 
before the apples are done ; bake 20 m.; remove the 
pan, brown the crumbs, and serve at once. 

APPLE COMPOTE. 

Add to I pt. boiling water i c. sugar, i strip lemon 
rind. Boil 5 m. Core and pare six apples, put in 
the boiling syrup, cover, and boil till a straw passes 
through easily. Boil gently, or they will break. 
Remove, fill the cores with orange marmalade, boil 



PUDDINGS AND DESSERTS. l8l 

the syrup 5 m. longer, and pour around the apples. 
Serve cold. 

COTTAGE PUDDING. 

I heaping cup flour. i c. sugar. 

J tsp. salt. li tsp. melted butter. 

I egg. i c. milk. 

I tsp. Cleveland's baking-powder. 

Sift the dry ingredients, beat the egg, add the 
milk, then the butter, and stir into the flour. Bake 
in small pans about 15 m., or in one shallow pan 
30 m. Grease the pans with butter, and serve hot 
with lemon sauce. 

CHOCOLATE PUDDING. 

Yolks 4 eggs. i box gelatine (Cox's). 

I qt. milk. i tsp. vanilla flavoring. 

I c. sugar. Whites 4 eggs. 

1 cake W. Baker & Co.'s chocolate. 

Soak the gelatine in i c. milk 2 h. Scald the re- 
mainder of the milk in a double boiler, beat the yolks 
of the eggs, add half the sugar, pour on the hot 
milk, stirring all the time, return to the fire and cook 
till thick as cream, stirring well. Remove from the 
fire, add the gelatine, remainder of the sugar and the 
chocolate, which has been cut up and melted ; strain, 
when cold, add the vanilla. Set in a pan of ice, stir 
occasionally; when it begins to thicken add the 
whites, beaten stiff, and beat with a wire spoon till 
stiff enough to drop. Dip a mold in cold water, 
pour the mixture in, and set away to cool. Serve 
very cold, with a cold custard, made with the yolks 
of 3 eggs, I pt. milk, i c. sugar, J ssp. salt, i tsp. 

9 



1 82 THE YOUNG COOK'S GUIDE. 

vanilla. This is a most delicious pudding, and can 
be made on Saturday for Sunday. 

SPONGE PUDDING. 
■J c. sugar. •§■ c. butter. 

J c. flour. Yolks 3 eggs. 

1 c. milk. Whites 3 eggs. 
Mix the flour and sugar with a little cold milk, 

scald the rest of the milk and stir the flour into it. 
Cook 8 m., stirring well ; add the butter ; when cool, 
add the well beaten yolks, then the whites, beaten 
stiff. Do not beat much after- adding the whites. 
Bake in buttered cups, placed in hot water, in a hot 
oven, about 30 m. When a straw comes out clean 
it is done. Serve with orange sauce. 

BAKED HUCKLEBERRY PUDDING, 
f c. butter. 3 c. flour. 

2 c. sugar. 4 eggs. 

I tsp. cinnamon, ij c. milk. 

I tsp. nutmeg. i qt. fresh huckleberries. 

2 tsp. Cleveland's baking-powder. 
Cream the butter, add the sugar gradually, add 
the well-beaten yolks ; sift the baking-powder with 
the flour and the spices, and add a little at a time, 
alternating with a little milk Add the well-beaten 
whites ; lastly, the berries, being very careful not to 
break them as you fold them in. Bake in shallow, 
well-greased tin, or in small gem pans. Serve with 
foamy sauce. 

BOILED HUCKLEBERRY PUDDING. 
2 qts. berries. Flour to make a stiff dough. 

I pt. molasses. i level tsp. soda, dissolved in -J- c. 

hot water. 



PUDDINGS AND DESSERTS. 183 

Dissolve the soda, add it to the molasses, add a lit- 
tle flour, then the berries, stirring gently, then enough 
flour to make a stiff dough, put in buttered mold, 
steam 3-2- h. Serve with creamy sauce. 

SUET PUDDING. 

I ssp. salt. Cold water to make a soft dough. 

I pt. flour. -J c. chopped beef suet. 

i^ tsp. Cleveland's baking-powder. 

Sift the flour, baking-powder and salt, add the 
suet and mix well. Add the cold water gradually ; 
put into a well-greased mold, filling to within an 
inch of the top. Cover with greased paper and 
steam 2 h. for a mold, i h. for cups. Serve with 
foamy sauce. Use kidney suet for all suet puddings. 

GINGER SUET PUDDING. 

I pt. flour. i c. chopped beef suet. 

I ssp. salt. f c. molasses. 

Cold water to make soft i-J- tsp. Cleveland's bak- 

dough. ing-powder. 

i-J tbsp. ground ginger. 
Proceed as for suet pudding, using the molasses 
first, and then enough water to make a stiff dough. 
Serve with foamy sauce. 

FRUIT SUET PUDDING. 
Make the same as plain suet pudding, and add to 
the dry ingredients, 

f c. currants. f c. sugar, 

f c. raisins. i nutmeg. 

-J c. sliced citron.* ij tsp. cinnamon. 

2 ssp. cloves. 3 ssp. mace. 

Serve with foamy sauce. 



1 84 THE YOUNG COOK'S GUIDE. 

CABINET PUDDING. 

Yolks 3 eggs. i c. fruit. 

3 tbsp. sugar. 3 pts. stale sponge cake. 

3 c. milk (scalded.) |- ssp. salt. 
Sprinkle the fruit around a well-buttered melon 
mold, reserving half of it to sprinkle through the 
cake. Break up the cake and fill the mold, putting 
in a little fruit now and then. Beat the eggs, sugar, 
salt ; add the milk and pour over the cake. Let it 
stand I h. Steam it ij h. Serve with lemon, or 
creamy sauce. You may use for the cup of fruit, 
raisins, currants, citron, candied cherries, and candied 
rhubarb. The rhubarb gives a bright green color, 
that is very attractive. Some caterers call it angelica. 

SWEDISH PUDDING. 
i-J c. milk. 3 eggs. i can apricots. 

2 tbsp. flour. -J tsp. vanilla flavoring. 
i tbsp. butter. -J- " almond " 

3 tbsp. powd. sugar. 2 tbsp. gran, sugar. 
Scald I c. milk ; rub the flour to a smooth paste 

in i c. milk, add the yolks of the eggs, and the 
sugar ; pour on the scalded milk ; cook 10 m., stirring 
all the time ; add the butter, and when cool add the 
flavoring. Put in a dish, cover with the apricots, and 
decorate with the whites of the eggs, beaten to a 
stiff froth, and the powd. sugar, added gradually. 
Squeeze this through a paper cornucopia, with a 
hole in the end. Place in the oven 10 m. Serve 
cold, with the syrup from the apricots. 

APPLE SNOW «ALLS. 
i c. rice. i tsp. salt. 

2 apples. I c. boiling water. 



PUDDINGS AND DESSERTS. 1 85 

Pick over and wash the rice, and put it with the 
salt and boiling water into the top of the double 
boiler. Boil rapidly 10 m., place over hot water and 
steam 15 m. Have four small pudding cloths of cheese 
cloth, -J of a yard square. Dip in boiling water and 
wring out. Place over small bowl, cover with rice, 
■J- in. thick ; core, pare, and halve the apples, place 
half an apple in centre of each cloth, put a little rice 
on top, draw the cloth together^ being careful to 
cover the apple with the rice, tie up tight and steam 
30 m. Turn out and serve with lemon sauce. 

SNOW BALLS. 
3 eggs. 3 tbsp. cold water. 

I c. sugar. Grated rind i lemon. 

I c. sifted flour. i-J tbsp. lemon juice. 

I tsp. Cleveland's baking-powder. 
. Beat the yolks till very light, add the sugar gradu- 
ally, beat well, add the lemon juice, rind and water; 
sift the flour and baking-powder, add to the mixture, 
beat well ; lastly, fold in the whites, which have been 
beaten stiff. Steam in well-buttered earthen cups 
for 30 m. When done, roll in powdered sugar, and 
serve with strawberry sauce. 

MOCK PLUM PUDDING (Baked.) 
I qt. milk. J lb. suet, chopped fine. 

3 eggs. J lb. currants. 

I level tsp. soda. J lb. raisins. 

J c. hot water. if c. fine bread crumbs. 

I tbsp. mixed spice. |- c. molasses. 

•§■ lb. citron, cut fine. 
Beat the eggs, add the milk ; sift the bread crumbs 
and spice together, add them to the milk, add the 



1 86 THE YOUNG COOK'S GUIDE. 

suet, fruit, and molasses, and lastly, the soda, dis- 
solved in the hot water. Bake i^ h. Serve with 
hard sauce. 

SNOW PUDDING. 

J box Nelson's gelatine. i c. boiling water. 

I c. gran, sugar. J c. lemon juice. 

Whites 3 eggs. 

Soak the gelatine in Jc. cold water 2 h. Add the 
boiling water ; when the gelatine is dissolved, add 
the sugar and lemon juice. Strain and set in a 
pan of ice. Stir occasionally, and when it begins to 
harden add the whites, beaten stiff, and beat all with 
a wire spoon till light and stiff. Put in a mold, 
wet with cold water, and serve very cold, with a 
soft custard or chocolate sauce. 

ORANGE CHARLOTTE. 

i box Nelson's gelatine. Juice i lemon. 

J c. cold water. i c. orange juice and pulp. 

•J c. boiling water. Whites 3 eggs. 

I c. sugar. Grated rind of J orange. 

Soak the gelatine in the cold water 2 h. Add the 
boiling water ; when dissolved, add the sugar, stir 
till dissolved, add the lemon juice, strain, and set in 
a pan of ice water. Stir occasionally ; when cold, 
add the orange juice and pulp, and when it begins 
to thicken add the Avhites, which have been beaten 
stiff, and beat all with a wire spoon until stiff. Pour 
into a I qt. charlotte russe mold, which has been 
lined with orange sections. Set away to harden, and 
serve with whipped cream piled around and on top 
of the charlotte. 



PUDDINGS AND DESSERTS. 187 

ORANGES FILLED WITH JELLY. 

Cut a small round hole in the end of the oranee. 
With a small spoon scoop out the inside of the 
orange, being careful not to break the skin. Rinse 
out with cold water, shake the water out well. Fill 
•J full with jelly, colored red with cochineal, set in 
ice ; when this jelly hardens, fill | full with orange 
jelly, let this harden, and fill the last third with jelly 
colored with coffee, chocolate, or the juice squeezed 
from spinach leaves. When very hard, cut the 
oranges with a sharp knife, into quarters, and serve 
on a bed of green, or cut nearly through and pull 
the quarters apart, and serve one to each person on 
a bed of smilax. 

ORANGE BASKETS. 

With a sharp pointed knife cut a basket with a 
handle, out of a whole orange. Carefully scoop out 
the inside, fill the basket with jelly or bavarian 
cream ; when hard, put a little whipped cream on 
the top, tie a ribbon bow on the handle, and serve 
on a bed of greens. 

FRUIT MOUSSE. 

^ box gelatine. i pt. cream. 

i c. cold w^ater. -J c. boiling water. 

I pt. fruit juice. 
Soak the gelatine in the cold water i h. Prepare 
any kind of fruit juice, orange, apricot, pineapple, or 
strawberry, and sweeten it to taste ; the quantity of 
sugar will vary with the fruit used. Add the -J- c. of 
boiling water to the gelatine ; when dissolved, add 
the fruit juice, strain, and set in a pan of ice. Stir 
occasionally. Whip the cream, and when the juice 



1 88 THE YOUNG COOK'S GUIDE. 

begins to thicken, stir the cream in lightly, and set 
in a mold. Pack in ice and salt for 3 h. 

CHOCOLATE MOUSSE. 

•J box gelatine. i qt. cream. 

i c. cold water. 4 tbsp. sugar. 

2 squares of W. Baker & Co.'s chocolate. 
Soak the gelatine in the cold water 2 h. Whip 
the cream until you have i c. liquid left. Heat this 
to the boiHng point, pour over the gelatine ; when 
dissolved, add the sugar, stir till dissolved, add the 
chocolate, which has been melted, stir well, strain^ 
and set in a pan of ice. Stir occasionally ; when 
cold, add -J- tsp. vanilla, and when it begins to thick- 
en stir in lightly the whipped cream. Put in a mold. 
Pack in ice and salt 3 h. Turn out and serve with 
soft custard. 

BAVARIAN CREAM. 

i box gelatine. Yolks 2 eggs. 

J c. cold water. i c. sugar. 

I c. cream. -J ssp. salt. 

I c. milk. i tsp. vanilla. 

Soak the gelatine in cold water 2 h. Whip the 
cream till you have J c. liquid left ; add |- c. milk to 
the "I c. of cream, put on the fire to scald. Beat the 
yolks, add the. sugar and salt, pour the milk over 
them, return to the fire and cook till thick as custard, 
stirring all the time. Remove from the fire, add the 
gelatine, strain, and set in a pan of ice. Stir occasion- 
ally, and when it begins to thicken, fold in the 
whipped cream, set in a mold on the ice. 



PUDDINGS AND DESSERTS. 1 89 

CHOCOLATE BAVARIAN CREAM. 

i box gelatine. -J c. sugar. 

i c. cold milk. -J ssp. salt. 

I pt. cream. j- tsp. vanilla. 

I pt. milk. Yolks 4 eggs. 

2 sq. W. Baker & Go's chocolate. 
Soak the gelatine in the ^ c. milk i h. Heat the 
milk in the double boiler, beat the eggs, add the su- 
gar and salt, pour the hot milk over the eggs, re- 
turn to the double boiler, and cook till like very 
thick cream ; add the chocolate, which has been 
melted, stir well, strain, and set in a pan of ice. Stir 
occasionally, and when it begins to thicken, stir in 
lightly the whipped cream. Set in a mold and 
serve very cold. Set in ice and salt 3 h. 

ORANGE BAVARIAN CREAM. 
i c. cold water. f c. milk. 

4 box gelatine. i c. sugar. 

I c. orange juice. Yolks 4 eggs. 

3 pts. whipped cream. 

If you whip the cream with a whip churn, you will 
need one pint of liquid cream to make three pints of 
whipped. Soak the gelatine in the cold water two 
hours. Scald the milk, beat the yolks, add the su- 
gar, pour over them the scalded milk, stirring all the 
time ; return to the fire and cook till thick as cream, 
stirring well. Remove from the fire, add the gela- 
tine, stir till dissolved ; strain and set aside to cool 
in a pan of ice ; when cool add the orange juice, stir 
occasionally. Whip the cream, and when the jelly 
begins to thicken fold in the cream ; put in a mold 
wet with cold water, and set aside to harden. 



190 THE YOUNG COOK'S GUIDE. 

STRAWBERRY BAVARIAN CREAM. 

I qt. strawberries. f c. milk. 

I pt. cream. Yolks 4 eggs. 

I c. sugar. -J box gelatine. 

i c. cold water. 
Soak the gelatine in the cold water two hours. 
Mash the berries and sugar and let stand one hour. 
Strain the berries, pressing out all but the seeds ; 
scald the milk, beat the eggs, pour the milk over the 
eggSj stirring all the time ; return to the fire and 
cook till thick as cream, stirring well ; remove from 
the fire, add the gelatine ; when dissolved strain and 
set in a pan of ice, add the juice of the berries and 
stir occasionally. Whip the cream, and when the 
jelly begins to thicken, fold it in quickly and lightly. 
Set it in a mold to harden. 

BLANC MANGE. 
I qt. milk. -J c. sugar. 

i box gelatine. |- tsp. almond flavoring. 

Soak the gelatine in -J c. cold milk 2 h. Put the 
milk on to heat and pour over the gelatine, add the 
sugar ; when dissolved strain ; when cool add the 
flavoring and put in a mold, wet in cold water. 
Serve very cold. 

LEMON JELLY. 
•J- box gelatine. i c. sugar. 

-J- c. cold water. f c. lemon juice. 

I pt. boiling Avater. i square inch stick cinnamon. 
The yellow rind of i lemon. 
Soak the gelatine in the cold water 2 h. Pour the 
boiling water over the gelatine, cinnamon and lemon 
rind, and soak for 5 m.; covered. Add the sugar ; 



PUDDINGS AND DESSERTS. I9I 

when dissolved add the lemon juice, strain and pour 
in a mold dipped in cold water. 

ORANGE JELLY. 
-J- box gelatine. Juice i lemon. 

■J c. cold water. i c. sugar. 

I c. boiling water. i pt. orange juice. 

Rind of I orange. i square inch stick cinnamon. 

Soak the gelatine in the cold water 2 h. Put the 
cinnamon and thin rind of the orange in the boiling 
water, cover and let stand for 5 m. Pour over the 
gelatine ; when dissolved, add the sugar, stir till dis- 
solved ; add the lemon and orange juice, strain and 
set in a mold dipped in cold water. 

APPLES IN JELLY. 
Prepare the apples as for apples for luncheon. 
Put one layer in a mold or glass dish. Make the or- 
ange jelly, using i c. orange juice instead of 2 c. 
Pour this over the apples and serve very cold, with 
whipped cream over or around the mold. 

CARAMEL. 

I c. gran, sugar. i c. boiling water. 

Put the sugar in a frying-pan ; when it is melted 
and slightly brown, add the water and simmer ten 
minutes. 

APPLE SNOW. 

3 tart apples. 4 tbsp. powd. sugar. Whites 3 eggs. 
Core and quarter the apples and steam till tender 
and mash through a sieve. When the apples are 
cold, beat the whites very stiff, add the sugar grad- 
ually, then the apple. Pile in a glass dish and dec- 
orate with bits of jelly. 



PUDDING SAUCES. 

LEMON SAUCE. 
I c. hot]|water. Grated rind and juice of i lemon. 
■| c. sugar. • J tbsp. butter. 
2 tsp. cornstarch. 
Mix'the sugar and cornstarch well ; pour on the 
boiling water, stirring all the time. Boil lO m., add 
the lemon juice, rind and butter. Serve at once. 

FOAMY SAUCE. 

^ c. butter. 2 tbsp. fruit juice. 

I c. powdered sugar. White of i or 2 eggs. 

I tsp. vanilla. J c. boiling water. 

Cream the butter, add the sugar gradually, then 

the vanilla and fruit juice. When ready to serve 

add the boiling water, and the egg beaten to a foam. 

CREAMY SAUCE. 
J c. butter. J c. cream. 

i c. powdered sugar. i tsp. vanilla. 

Cream the butter, add the sugar gradually, then 
the flavoring and lastly the cream. It will look 
curdled, but just before serving place the bowl over 
hot water and stir till smooth. 

HARD SAUCE. 
•J- c. butter. i c. powd. sugar. 

White I egg, ^ tsp. vanilla. 

Cream the butter, add the sugar gradually, beat 
till very light, add the vanilla ; add the beaten white 
last. You may leave out the egg and have a very 
nice sauce. 

192 



PUDDING SAUCES. I93 

CARAMEL SAUCE. 
I c. granulated sugar. i c. boiling water. 
Put the sugar in a frying-pan, cook till dark brown, 
add the water and simmer 10 m. Set away to cool. 

FRUIT SAUCE. 

I pt. boiling water. i pt. canned fruit. 

I c. sugar. I tbsp. cornstarch. 

i c. cold water. 

Moisten the cornstarch in the cold water, stir into 

the boiling water, add the sugar and boil 10 m. 

Add the fruit and serve. 

LEMON SYRUP (for Waffles.) 

I c. sugar. I tsp. butter. 

^ c. water. i tbsp. lemon juice. 

Boil the sugar and water 8 m. Add the butter 
and lemon juice ; when the butter is melted, serve. 

CHOCOLATE SAUCE. 
I c. milk. -J- c. sugar. 

J tsp. vanilla. Yolks 2 eggs. 

I sq. W. Baker & Co.'s chocolate. 
Scald the milk, add the chocolate, grated, to it ; 
beat the eggs, add the sugar to them ; pour the milk 
over the eggs, return to the fire and cook till thick 
as cream, stirring all the time. Remove from the 
fire, strain, and when cold add the flavoring. 

ORANGE SAUCE. 
J c. butter. J c. boiling water. 

I c. powd. sugar. 2 tbsp. orange juice. 

I tsp. vanilla. ^ tsp. grated rind. 

White I egg. 
Cream the butter, add the sugar gradually, then 
the vanilla and fruit juice. Just before serving add 



194 THE YOUNG COOK'S GUIDE. 

the boiling water, stir well, add the well-beaten eggy 
and beat till foamy. Do not beat up the egg until 
you add it to the sauce, and it must be served the 
minute the water is added. 

HARD SAUCE (with fruit.) 
f c. butter. -J tsp. vanilla, 

i^ c. powd. sugar. White of i egg. 

■J- c. gran, sugar. i c, berries (strawber- 

ries or raspberries)^ 
Cut the berries in halves or quarters, sprinkle with 
the granulated sugar and let stand for fifteen min- 
utes. Cream the butter, add the powdered sugar 
gradually, then the vanilla, and the well-beaten egg. 
Just before serving add the berries. 

CUSTARD SAUCE. 

2 c. milk. 3 tbsp. gran, sugar. 

3 eggs. I tsp. vanilla. 

|- ssp. salt. 
Scald the milk, beat the eggs, salt and sugar to- 
gether, pour on the scalded milk, return to the fire 
and cook till thick as cream, stirring all the time. 
Remove at once from the fire or it will curdle ; strain, 
and when cold add the flavoring. 



CAKE. 

Cake should always be mixed in an earthen bowl 
and with a wooden spoon. When baking-powder, 
or soda, and cream of tartar are used, sift them with 
the flour. Cream the butter, add the sugar, then 
the well-beaten yolks, then the flour, with the rais- 
ing powders sifted with it, alternating with the 
milk, and lastly, the well-beaten whites. In cakes 
that have no butter in, such as sponge cakes, the 
rule is to beat the yolks very light, add the sugar 
gradually, then the water, and flavoring, and lastly, 
the well-beaten whites. Do not beat after the whites 
are added. In sponge cake, where there is no rais- 
ing powder used, it is the air that you entangle in 
the eggs that raises the cake, so be very careful not 
to stir, and so break the air bubbles. Fine grained 
granulated sugar makes the best cake, and the flour 
should always be perfectly dry. For sponge cake, 
always dry the flour by the fire, and sift it three 
times just before using. Choose the dark-shelled 
eggs if you want a deep-colored cake. Line all large 
pans with paper, to prevent burning on the bottom. 
The smaller and thinner the cake, the hotter the 
oven. In baking loaf cakes, be sure that you can 
control the fire, so as to have the heat last through- 
out the baking. Molasses cakes require a cooler 
oven than others. A loaf, or pound cake, should 
first rise well before it begins to brown ; then begin 
to brown slightly, and after it is brown all over, 

195 



196 THE YOUNG COOK'S GUIDE. 

shrink from the pan and settle a little. If you move 

it, or bang the oven door while the walls of the cake 

are soft, you will make it fall. Open and close the 

oven door carefully, and slowly, and if it browns too 

soon, shield it with a piece of brown paper. When 

a straw comes out clean it is done. Take out of the 

pan at once, and turn the pan upside down, wipe off 

and stand the cake on it. Never put it away until 

cold. 

GINGER BREAD. 

i c. molasses. i tbsp. butter (softened.) 

^ level tbsp. ginger. J c. boiling water. 
J tsp. salt. I c. sifted flour. J level tsp. soda. 

Put the molasses in a bowl, sift into it the soda, 
salt, and ginger ; add the butter ; stir, add the boil- 
ing water and flour. Beat well, and bake in shallow 
pan 20 m. 

SOFT MOLASSES COOKIES. 

I c. molasses. 2 tbsp. warm water. 

I level tbsp. ginger. ^ c. cottolene (softened.) 

I " tsp. soda. I level tsp. salt. 

Flour to make a soft dough. 

Sift the ginger and salt into the molasses, put the 
soda into the warm water, and strain into the molas- 
ses ; add the cottolene, and flour enough to make a 
dough soft enough to roll out J of an inch thick. 
Cut in small rounds, and bake in hot oven. 

DOUGHNUTS, • 
I pt. flour. i ssp. cinnamon. 

J c. sugar. f c. milk, 

i tsp. salt. I egg. 

I tsp. Cleveland's baking- I tsp. butter (melted.) 
powder. 



CAKE. 197 

Sift the baking-powder, salt, and cinnamon, with 
the flour ; add the sugar, beat the egg, add the milk 
to the egg, and stir into the flour. Roll out ^ inch 
thick, cut out, and fry in hot cottolene. 

NEW ENGLAND DOUGHNUTS. 

1 c. sugar. 2 tsp. melted cottolene. 

2 eggs. I" c. milk. 

1 ssp. cinnamon. i tsp. salt. 

2 tsp. Cleveland's baking- Flour to make a soft 

powder. dough. 

Beat the eggs very light, add the sugar, beat well, 
add the cottolene ; sift the salt and baking-powder 
with the flour, add the milk and flour. Roll out and 
cut out ; fry In hot cottolene. Use i c. flour to 
start with. 

GINGER SNAPS. 
I c. sugar. J c. cold water. 

I c. molasses. i level tbsp. ginger. 

I c. cottolene. ^ " '' cinnamon. 

3 pts. flour. I " tsp. soda. 

I level tsp. salt. 
Cream the cottolene, add the sugar, gradually, 
then the molasses, salt, and spice. Add the soda, 
dissolved in the water, and the flour, gradually. 
Roll out very thin, cut in round cakes, and bake on 
a greased pan in hot oven. 

SOFT MOLASSES GINGERBREAD. 
I c. molasses. 2 tbsp. cottolene. 

J c. sour milk. ^ tsp. salt (level.) 

f c. flour. I egg. I " soda " 

I tsp. cinnamon (level.) i tbsp. ginger (level.) 
Put the molasses and cottolene on the fire in a 



198 THE YOUNG COOK'S GUIDE. 

bowl ; when warm, add the salt, soda, and spice, 
sifted through a very fine sieve. Add the sour milk, 
the egg, well beaten, and the flour. Beat well, bake 
in a well-greased pan in a hot oven. 

LUNCH CAKE. 
I tbsp. butter. ij c. flour. 

I scant c. sugar. f c. milk (scant.) 

I egg. f c. currants. 

I tsp. Cleveland's baking-powder. 
Cream the butter, add the sugar, gradually, add 
the well-beaten egg ; sift the flour and the baking- 
powder, add the flour and the milk, gradually, lastly, 
the currants. Bake in a loaf pan, lined with greased 
paper, about 40 m. 

CURRANT LUNCH CAKES. 
I tbsp. cottolene. i-J- c. flour. 

I c. su^ar. f c. milk. 

I egg. f c. currants. 

I ssp. cloves. ^ tsp. cinnamon. 

I tsp. Cleveland's baking-powder. 
Cream the cottolene, add the sugar, gradually, 
then the well-beaten eggs ; sift the spices and bak- 
ing-powder with the flour, add the milk and flour 
gradually, and lastly, the currants. Bake in small 
pans about 15 m. 

CURRANT AND RAISIN LUNCH CAKE. 
2 tbsp. cottolene. i|- c. flour. 

2 eggs. -J- c. milk. 

1 c. sugar. |- c. raisins. 

2 tsp. Cleveland's baking-powder. -J- c. currants. 
Cream the cottolene, add the sugar, gradually, add 

the well-beaten eggs ; sift the baking-powder with 



CAKE. 199 

the flour, add It, alternating with the milk. Give a 
good beating, then add the raisins, which have been 
stoned and cut into halves, and the currants, which 
have been washed and dried. Bake in small pans^ 
in a hot oven, 15 to 20 minutes. 

CUP CAKE. 

1 c. butter. 4 eggs. 

2 c. sugar. I c. milk. 

3 c. flour. I tsp. flavoring. 

2 tsp. Cleveland's baking-powder. 
Cream the butter, add the sugar, then the well- 
beaten yolks ; sift the baking-powder with the flour, 
add the flour and milk, alternating, then the flavor- 
ing, and lastly, the whites, beaten stiff. Do not beat 
or stir much after adding the whites. 

LAYER CAKE. 
■J c. butter. 4 eggs. 

2 c. sugar. I c. milk. 

3 c. flour. 2 tsp. Cleveland's baking-powder. 
Cream the butter, add the sugar, gradually ; beat 

the eggs, yolks and whites together ; add to the but- 
ter and sugar ; sift the baking-powder with the flour, 
and add with the milk. Spread with a knife on but- 
tered tins, and bake in a quick oven about 15 m. 

NUT CAKE. 

Add to the layer cake i-J c. chopped nuts and bake 

in a loaf. 

NUT LAYER CAKE. 

Bake the layers as by the recipe for layer cake. 
Spread the layers with the boiled icing, sprinkle with 
chopped nuts, put on another layer, etc. Spread the 
top with icing, and decorate with whole, or half nuts. 



200 THE YOUNG COOK S GUIDE. 

ORANGE LAYER CAKE, 
Make the layers as by recipe for layer cake. 

FILLING. 
Juice and rind of i orange. i egg. 

I scant c. milk. 2 tbsp. gran, sugar. 

2 tsp. cornstarch. 
Mix the cornstarch with a little cold milk. Heat 
the remainder of the milk to boiling, add the corn- 
starch, cook 5 m., stirring well, add the well-beaten 
egg and the sugar, and lastly the orange, 

COCOANUT CAKE.— LAYER. 

Make the layers as by recipe for layer cake. 
Spread with boiled icing, in which you have put I 
tsp. lemon juice ; sprinkle with fresh, grated cocoa- 
nut. Repeat until all the layers are used, and cover 
the top and sides with icing, and sprinkle with 
cocoanut. 

CHOCOLATE LAYER CAKE. 

Make the layers as by recipe for layer cake. Add 
to the boiled icing, when hot, 2 squares of W. Baker 
& Co.'s chocolate, melted, and J tsp. vanilla. 
Spread between the layers and on the top. 

RAISIN LAYER CAKE. 

Spread between the layers the boiled icing to 
which you have added i c. chopped raisins and J tsp. 
vanilla. Reserve a little icing plain, for the top, and 
decorate with raisins pressed flat and round. 

RAISIN LAYER CAKE NO. 2. 

f c. cottolene. i c. milk. 

2 c. sugar. 3 c. sifted flour. 

3 eggs. I c. raisins. 

2 tsp. Cleveland's baking-powder. 



CAKE. 201 

Cream the cottolene, add the sugar gradually, 
then the yolks, well beaten. Sift the baking-pow- 
der with the flour, add it to the batter, alternating 
with the milk. Beat the whites stiff, add them last. 
Divide the mixture in half ; add to one half the 
raisins, which have been stoned and cut in half. 
Fill two layer cake pans with the plain dough, and 
two with the raisin dough. Bake, spread with 
cream filling, putting the raisin cake between the 
plain. 

CREAM FILLING. 

ij c. milk. 2 eggs. 

I tbsp. cornstarch. ^ c. sugar. 

I tsp. butter. ^ ssp. salt. 

■J tsp. vanilla flavoring. 

Mix the cornstarch with a little cold milk, add the 
salt ; scald the rest of the milk, add the cornstarch ; 
cook five minutes, stirring constantly. Add the 
sugar and butter, and when cold add the flavoring. 
Put between the layers and cover with an icing, 
made of the white of an egg beaten to a stiff froth, 
and one tablespoonful of powdered sugar. 

MOLASSES FRUIT CAKE. 

I c. butter. Yolks 3 eggs. 

ij c. brown sugar. Whites 2 eggs. 

^ c. currants. ^ c. milk. 

■J lb. stoned raisins. 4 c. flour. 

I ssp. salt. 3 tsp. mixed spices. 

•J c. molasses. -J- tsp. soda. 

Cream the butter, add the sugar, add the yolks of 



202 THE YOUNG COOK S GUIDE. 

the eggs and the molasses, beat well. Sift the bak- 
ing-powder and spices with the flour, add the flour, 
alternating with the milk, then the whites, beaten 
stiff. Then the fruit. Bake i-J hours if in a loaf,, 
30 m. if in small pans. 

SPONGE CAKE. 
3 eggs. 2 c. sifted flour. 

i^ c. gran, sugar. i tsp. lemon extract. 

■J c. cold water. 2 tsp. Cleveland's baking- 

■J ssp. salt. powder. 

Sift the flour, salt and baking-powder three times. 
Separate the eggs. Beat the yolks with a dover 
beater 2 m. Add the sugar, beating 2 m.; add the 
water and the lemon extract. Add the flour, beat- 
ing 2 m. Beat the whites of the eggs 2 m. Fold 
them in, do not beat or stir, put into a loaf pan 
lined with greased paper, and bake about 30 m. 

SPONGE CAKE NO. 2. 
12 eggs. 3 c. sifted flour. 

1 lemon, juice and rind. 3 c. sugar. 

Dry the flour before the fire for several hours. 
Just before using, sift it three times. Separate the 
eggs, beat the yolks for 2 m., add the sugar, beat 2 
m., add the lemon ; beat the whites 2 m., cut them 
in lightly, and fold the flour in carefully. Do not 
stir or beat after the whites are added. Bake about 
30 m. 

LADY CAKE. 

2 c. sugar. I" c. butter. 
2-J- c. sifted flour. f c. milk. 

-| tsp. almond flavoring. Whites 8 eggs. 
i-| tsp. Cleveland's baking-powder. 



CAKE. 203 

Cream the butter, add the sugar ; sift the baking- 
powder with the flour, add it alternately with the 
milk, add the flavoring; lastly, fold in lightly the 
whites. Bake in a loaf for about 40 m. 

BOILED ICING. 

2 c. sugar. Whites of 2 eggs. 

6 tbsp. water, hot. 

Boil the water and sugar till the syrup ropes when 

dropped in cold water. Do not stir after the sugar 

is melted. Pour slowly over the well-beaten whites, 

beating all the time, and beat till nearly cold. 

ORNAMENTAL FROSTING. 

Beat the whites of two eggs stiff, add gradually 
2 tbsp. powd. sugar, beat well ; make a cornucopia 
of white paper, put the frosting in, cut a small hole 
in the end, and squeeze the frosting through in any 
design you please. 

STRAWBERRY SHORTCAKE. 

4 c. flour. 2 tbsp. butter. 

I tsp. salt. I qt. berries. 

if c. milk. I pt. cream. 

2 tsp. Cleveland's baking-powder. 
Sift the salt, baking-powder and flour ; rub in the 
butter, add sufificient milk to make a soft dough. 
Roll out one and one-half inches thick, and put in a 
^veil-greased pan, bake in a hot oven twenty min- 
utes. Stem the berries, cut into quarters if large, 
halves if small, reserving one-third handsome ones 
for the top. Sprinkle the berries with sugar. When 
the cake is done, remove from the pan, split in half 
and spread lightly with butter. Put the berries be- 



204 THE YOUNG COOK'S GUIDE. 

tween the layers and the large ones on top. Dust a 
little powdered sugar over the top, and pile the 
whipped cream around the base. 

Peach and raspberry shortcake are prepared the 
same, and are very delicious. 

RASPBERRY TRIFLE. 

I qt. raspberries. 2 eggs. 

I J c. milk. 2 tbsp. gran, sugar. 

J tsp. lemon extract. 2 " powd. *' 
Stale sponge cake. 
Scald the milk, beat the yolks of the eggs, add the 
gran, sugar ; beat, and pour the milk on the eggs. 
Return to the fire, cook until thick as cream, stirring 
all the time ; strain, and set aside to cool. When 
cold add the flavoring. Cover a dish with a thin 
layer of cake, then a layer of raspberries, pour over 
a little custard. Repeat, and let the top be rasp- 
berries, piled up in a pyramid. Beat the whites of 
the eggs stiff, add the powd. sugar and heap around 
the base. Serve very cold. 

CHANTILLY BASKET. 

I c. sugar. I ssp. cream of tartar. 

f -J- c. boiling water. 

Boil all together without stirring, until it is brittle 
when dropped from the end of a fork into cold water. 
Have stale maccaroons right at your hand, and a 
greased plate. Set the syrup in a pan of hot water, 
dip each maccaroon into the syrup, wetting only the 
edges ; stick together and form a basket on the 
greased plate. 



PASTRY AND PIES. 

PASTRY. 
To make light, flaky pastry, have everything very 
cold and the oven hot. Use only the best of flour 
and shortening. Handle as little as possible, chop- 
ping in and mixing with a knife. If the pastry gets 
at all soft, lay aside in a napkin on the ice and have 
it cold when it goes into the oven. Never grease a 
pie plate before putting on the paste. 

PASTRY FOR ONE PIE. 

I c. flour. i c. butter. 

i c. lard. Ice water to make stiff dough. 

I ssp. salt. I ssp. Cleveland's baking powder. 

Sift the salt and baking powder with the flour, 
chop in the lard, mix quite stiff with cold water. 
Roll out, put the butter on the paste in small pieces, 
sprinkle with a little flour, fold over and roll out. 
Repeat three times. Roll out thin and use for one 
pie. 

PUFF PASTE. 

I lb. butter. -J tsp. sugar. 

I lb. flour. i tsp. salt. 

White I egg. i c. ice water, more or less. 
Sift the flour, salt and sugar on to a marble slab. 
Make a hole in the centre and put butter, the 
size of an egg, and the white of the egg. The butter 
is much better if it has been washed before using, by 
working with" the hands under ice water until 
smooth and elastic, and then laying on the ice to 

10 205 



206 THE YOUNG COOK'S GUIDE. 

harden ; but it can be used without washing. Work 
the flour, butter and white of egg, adding a Httle 
water at a time until all the flour is used. Knead as 
you would bread for a few minutes, roll out very 
thin, lay the remainder of the butter on half, sprinkle 
with a little flour, fold over and roll out. Roll out 
and fold over eight times, and when it becomes at 
all soft lay in a damp napkin on the ice till hard. 
Let it stand on the ice several hours before baking, 
over night is the best. When put into the oven the 
pastry should be icy cold, and the oven should be 
very hot. Put the pastry in a part of the oven 
where there may be a good heat underneath, that.it 
may rise before browning ; should it begin to brown 
reduce the heat at once. Only practice can possibly 
teach one just the heat and how to regulate it. 

APPLE PIE. 

Never grease a pie plate before putting the paste 
in. Greenings make the best cooking apples, and 
the quantity of sugar used must be according to the 
tartness of the apples. Line a plate with plain 
paste, core, pare and quarter the apples, put a layer 
of the quarters on the paste, sprinkle with sugar 
mixed with a little cinnamon, and a very little grated 
lemon rind. Repeat until the apples are quite high. 
Roll the pastry for the top crust very thin, fold in 
half, cut several small gashes in the centre, wet the 
rim of the lower crust and lay the upper crust on, 
filling it in, that it may not draw away the paste 
from the pan. Press the edges together, put a nar- 
row strip of pastry around the edge and bake in a 
hot oven 30 to 40 m. 



PASTRY AND PIES. 20/ 

CHERRY PIE. 
Prepare the same as apple pie, filling the centre 
with stoned cherries, using sugar only. 

HUCKLEBERRY PIE. 

Prepare the same as apple pie, using sugar only, 
first washing the huckleberries and drying well. Press 
the edges well together that the juice may not run out. 

LEMON MERINGUE PIE. 
Line a plate with paste, put two extra strips 
around the edge, wetting the edge slightly with ice 
water before putting on each rim, and fill with the 
following mixture. Bake 30 m., remove from the 
oven, and when the pie is cool, cover with the me- 
ringue ; place in a cool, oven 15 m. 

FILLING. 

2 eggs. 4 tbsp. powd. sugar. 

4 tbsp. gran, sugar, i scant c. milk. 

I tsp. cornstarch. Juice and rind of i lemon. 

Mix the cornstarch with a little of the milk, scald 
the rest and add the cornstarch, stirring well, boil i 
m.; cool, add the yolks of the eggs, the sugar and 
the lemon, beat well. When cold fill the pie with 
this and bake 30 m. Remove from the oven and 
cover with a meringue made by beating the whites 
stiff, adding the powd. sugar gradually ; pile this on 
the top and place in a cool oven 15 m. 

PUMPKIN PIE. 

Pare the pumpkin and stew in just enough water 
to cover. Mash through a sieve and to i qt. of 
pumpkin add 3 eggs, i tsp. ground mace, i tsp. cin- 
namon, I tsp. ginger. Mix all together and add su- 



208 THE YOUNG COOK'S GUIDE. 

gar and salt to taste. Thin it with a little milk, and 
bake in a deep pie plate, lined with good plain paste, 
about 30 m. 

PLAIN MINCE PIES. 

1 c. meat. i; c. raisins. 

2 c. apples. ^ c. currants. 
I level tsp. salt. -i- c. water. 

" " cinnamon. J c. molasses. 

I " ^' allspice. i^ c. brown sugar. 

Juice and grated rind of 2 lemons. 
Chop small pieces of tender beef very fine. Chop 
the apples and stoned raisins fine. Boil the water, 
sugar, spice and raisins 10 m., add the other ingredi- 
ents and cook till the apples are soft. When cool 
make into pies. 

TARTS OR PATTIES. 

Roll out puff paste f inch thick. Cut out rounds 
with a tin cutter. Lay one on a sheet of paper on a 
tin pan. Cut smaller rounds out of three others and 
put the rings on top of the first round, being careful 
to rub only the top with white of Qgg. Do not put 
any egg on the top round, and be careful not to let 
the Ggg run down on the sides, or it will prevent the 
paste from rising. Bake on the papers in a hot 
oven. For patties you may put rounds of stale 
bread in the centre to prevent rising ; remove when 
done. Bake enough small rounds to make covers 
for the cases. 

LEMON MERINGUE TARTS. 

Line small patty pans with plain paste, put two 
narrow strips of pastry around each pan, and pro- 
ceed as for lemon meringue pie. 



PASTRY AND PIES. 209 

CRANBERRY TARTS. 
Line small patty pans with plain crust, putting 
two strips of pastry round the edge ; fill with un- 
cooked rice and bake till the pastry is done. Re- 
move the rice and fill with stewed cranberries. 

PEACH TARTLETS A LA ITALIAN. 
Lin'e out small patty pans with any kind of good 
paste, put a piece of bread or a little uncooked rice 
in, and bake. When done, remove the rice and let 
cool. When cold, place in the centre of each tartlet 
a half of a preserved peach, hollow side uppermost ; 
fill this hollow with whipped cream, piled high ; sur- 
round this with a delicate pink border made of the 
white of one egg, beaten stiff ; then add one table- 
spoonful of powdered sugar and a few drops of 
cochineal. Serve on a fancy paper. You may use 
apricots in place of peaches, if you desire. 

BAKED APPLE DUMPLINGS. 

I qt. flour. 2 tbsp. lard. 

I ssp. salt. I " beef drippings. 

I pt. milk. 2 tsp. Cleveland's baking-powder. 

Sift the baking-powder, salt and flour, and chop in 
the lard and dripping. Add enough milk to make a 
soft paste, roll out half an inch thick, cut into 
squares. Core and pare tart, juicy apples, and put 
one in the centre of the paste, sprinkle with a little 
sugar mixed with a little cinnamon, bring the cor- 
ners of the square together, pinch them and lay on 
a buttered baking tin, with the joined edges down- 
ward. Bake in a hot oven about forty minutes. 
When done, brush over with beaten egg, set in the 
oven till dry. Serve with hard or creamy sauce. 



ICE CREAMS AND SHERBETS. 

FREEZING. 

One of the necessary -articles that ought to be 
found in every kitchen, is a good ice cream freezer, 
for the days of hot and heavy puddings, and more 
indigestible pastry, are fast being superseded by the 
delicious and wholesome dainties found in many 
homes, even of the laboring classes. The most in- 
competent cook can, without fail, prepare many a 
surprise in the way of a dessert, that would do credit 
to a caterer, and for far less cost than the material 
formerly used, with such distressing results. In 
sickness a freezer is indispensible, for in a few mo- 
ments, before the desire of the patient can change^ 
you have something at hand that is refreshing and 
harmless. After using many of the freezers in the 
market, I can heartily recommend the " White 
Mountain " as far the best in every way ; economi- 
cal, quick to freeze, and the triple action of the 
beater producing a far more delicate sherbet, and a 
much smoother, finer grained cream. 

The principal points to be remembered in freezing 
are, that the proper proportions of ice and salt are 
used, the ice crushed fine, and the beater turned 
quickly, if a smooth texture is desired. 

DIRECTIONS FOR FREEZING. 
See that the can is perfectly clean, all the parts 
adjusted properly, the bearings and socket in the 
tub well oiled, and the crank turn easily, before put- 
ting in the cream. Have the material to be frozen 

210 



ICE CREAMS AND SHERBETS. 211 

very cold before putting into the freezer. Turn in 
the cream, adjust the cover, and fasten the latch. 
Throw around the can three small plates of ice, 
chopped as fine as the rock salt, then one plate of 
rock salt (not coarse salt, but rock salt used for freez- 
ing), three more of ice, and one of salt, and so on, 
until it reaches to the top of the can. Pack down 
carefully with the handle of a wooden spoon, turn- 
ing the crank occasionally, to see that all is right. 
Do not put large pieces of ice in, as they dent the 
freezer, and the cream will not freeze as quick as 
with finely crushed ice. Keep the plug in, but watch 
carefully, that the water does not rise to the top of 
the can, or it will salt the cream. Be careful not to 
let the ice and salt touch the working of the freezer 
above the can. It is the temperature of the water, 
which is much lower than the temperature of ice, 
that draws out the heat from the contents of the can 
and freezes the liquid, so do not draw off the entire 
water, unless to keep for several hours. Turn the 
crank slowly for 5 m., then as quick as you can, and 
do not leave it until done. Add all fruit and whip- 
ped cream when partly frozen. When the cream is 
frozen, remove the dasher, scrape the sides of the 
can, stir well, cover. Cover the hole made by the 
dasher with a small tin patty pan, or cover of a bak- 
ing powder box, drain off the water, pack with ice 
and salt, cover with piece of carpet, wet in salt and 
water, plug up the hole, and set away to ripen for 
two or three hours. 

TO MOLD CREAM. 

Dip the mold in cold water. When the cream is 



212 THE YOUNG COOK S GUIDE. 

frozen quite stiff, pack in the mold, filling every 
corner. Have the cover fit tightly and over the can. 
Fill the crack of the opening with melted suet, to 
keep out the water. Pack in ice and salt, and when 
ready to serve, dip quickly in lukewarm water ; wipe 
off, remove the cover, and turn out on a platter. 

VANILLA ICE CREAM. 

ij c. gran, sugar. 2 c. cream. 

Yolks 3 eggs. i tbsp. vanilla. 2 c. milk. 

Scald the milk in a double boiler ; beat the eggs, 
add \ c. sugar; pour the milk on the eggs, stirring 
well ; return to the double boiler and cook until 
thick as cream, stirring all the time. Remove from 
the fire, add the rest of the sugar ; when cold, add 
the flavoring, cream, and freeze. 

CHOCOLATE ICE CREAM. 
Make the same as the vanilla ice cream ; while hot,, 
add two squares of W. Baker & Co.'s chocolate, and 
use I tsp. of vanilla, instead of i tbsp. 

LEMON ICE CREAM. 
Make the same as vanilla ice cream, and use lemon 
flavoring, instead of vanilla. 

BANANA ICE CREAM. 
Make the same as vanilla ice cream, using no van- 
illa, and when half frozen add two good sized red 
bananas, which have been cut into small pieces. Use 
no flavoring, but the banana. 

COFFEE ICE CREAM. 
I pt. milk. Yolks 4 eggs. 

I pt. cream. J c. strong black coffee. 

I c. sugar. 



ICE CREAMS AND SHERBETS. 213 

Scald the milk in a double boiler. Beat the yolks, 
add ^ the sugar, pour the milk on the eggs, stirring 
well ; return to the fire, cook till like thick cream ; 
remove from the fire, add the rest of the sugar. 
When cold, add the coffee, and cream and freeze. 

STRAWBERRY ICE CREAM. 
Make the same as vanilla ice cream, leaving out 
the vanilla, and, when partly frozen, add i pt. of 
strawberries, which have been cut fine, and sugared 
to taste. Turn the crank rapidly for 10 m., after 
adding the fruit. 

PEACH ICE CREAM. 

I qt. peaches. 2 c. sugar. 

I qt. milk. 4 eggs (yolks). 

Pare, and cut up the peaches, which should be 
perfectly ripe, into very small pieces, add one cup of 
sugar to them, and let them stand for three or four 
hours. Scald the milk, beat the eggs and half a cup 
of sugar, pour the scalded milk over the eggs, return 
to the fire, and cook till thick as cream, stirring all 
the time. Remove from the fire, add the remaining 
half cup of sugar ; when dissolved, strain, and set 
aside to cool. When cold, add the peaches, and 
freeze. Should the peaches be tart, they may need 
a little more sugar. 

APRICOT ICE CREAM. 
Prepare the same as peach ice cream. 

BISQUE ICE CREAM. 
I qt. milk. i c. sugar. 

4 ^§§s (yolks). ^ lb. stale maccaroons. 

4 kisses." I tsp. vanilla. 

I tsp. caramel. 



214 THE YOUNG COOK'S GUIDE. 

Scald the milk, beat the eggs, add half the sugar,. 
pour the milk on to the eggs, stirring well ; return 
to the fire, and cook till like cream, stirring all the 
time. Remove from the fire, strain, and when cold, 
add the caramel and vanilla. Pound and roll the 
maccaroons, and kisses, and when the cream is partly 
frozen, add them ; turn the crank well after adding 
them, until the cream is hard enough to set away 
and freeze. 

PHILADELPHIA ICE CREAM. 
I qt. cream. i c. sugar. i tbsp. vanilla. 

Whip the cream until you have i qt. froth. Add 
the sugar and flavoring to the liquid left, and freeze 
it. When frozen, fold in lightly the whipped cream,, 
and set aside for 2 h. 

CARAMEL ICE CREAM. 
Melt I c. sugar till brown, add 4 tbsp. hot milk,. 
boil 5 m., set away to cool. Put in a double boiler 
I pt. milk. Mix to a smooth paste -J c. flour, add i 
c. sugar, and 2 eggs. Pour the boiling milk on this, 
return to the fire, and boil 20 m. Let cool, add the 
milk and sugar first cooked together, i qt. cream,, 
and freeze. 

DELMONICO ICE CREAM. 
I qt. cream. i c. sugar. 

Yolks 6 eggs. ^ tbsp. vanilla. 

Scald the cream, beat the eggs, add half the sugar^ 
pour the cream over the eggs, return to the fire, and 
cook till thick as cream, stirring all the time ; remove 
from the fire, add the rest of the sugar ; when dis- 
solved, strain, and when cool, add the vanilla, and 
freeze. 



ICE CREAMS AND SHERBETS. 21$ 

TUTTI FRUTTI. 

Prepare the Delmonico ice cream ; when cold, add 
I pt. more of cold cream, and use i tbsp. of vanilla 
instead of ^ tbsp. Freeze, and when almost hard 
add the following, cut up into small pieces: 

■J c. candied pineapple. -J c. candied cherries. 

i c. '' rhubarb. -J c. '' apricots. 

You may add the fruit to the plain vanilla cream, 
and you can use any kind or quantity of fruit you 
desire. After the fruit is added, turn the crank 
quickly for 5 m. 

FROZEN CUSTARD. 

I c. sugar. Yolks 6 eggs. 

I qt. milk. ^ ssp. salt. 

^ tbsp. flavoring. 
Scald the milk, beat the eggs, add -J- c. sugar and 
the salt ; pour the milk over the eggs, return to the 
fire, cook till thick as cream, stirring all the time. 
Remove from the fire, add the rest of the sugar, and 
when cold add the flavoring and freeze. 

SHERBETS. 

Sherbets, or ices, are made by freezing the juice 
of fruit, mixed with sugar and water. Sometimes a 
tablespoonful of gelatine is added to give the sher- 
bet a firmer consistency. They take much longer 
to freeze, and need to be beaten very much, in order 
to produce a creamy appearance. 

ORANGE SHERBET. 

I tbsp. gelatine. i c. hot water. 

I pt. orange juice. i^ c. cold water. 

i^ c. sugar. - I lemon. 



2l6 THE YOUNG COOK'S GUIDE. 

Soak the gelatine in ^ c. cold water i h. Pour 
the boiling water over it ; when dissolved, add the 
sugar, stir till dissolved, add the orange juice, lemon 
juice, and the remaining i c. cold water. Strain and 
freeze. 

LEMON SHERBET. 

Prepare the same as orange sherbet, using i c. 
lemon juice and 2 c. sugar. 

STRAWBERRY SHERBET. 

I pt. preserved fruit. i pt. cold water. 

■J- c. cold water. i tbsp. gelatine. 

I c. sugar. 2 lemons. 

■J c. boiling water. 
Soak the gelatine in the ^ c. cold water 2 h. Add 
the -J c. boiling water ; when dissolved, add the 
sugar and the lemon juice. Pour the i pt. cold 
water onto the preserves, and mash all but the seeds 
through a sieve. Add this to the sugar and water; 
when dissolved, strain all and freeze. 

RASPBERRY SHERBET. 
Prepare the same as for strawberry sherbet. 

PINEAPPLE ICE. 

Pare and remove all the eyes. Grate the pine- 
apple, and to I pt. of grated fruit add i pt. sugar, i 
pt. water, and use i tbsp. gelatine as directed in 
strawberry sherbet. 

LEMON GINGER SHERBET 

4 lemons. i pt. sugar. 

J lb. candied ginger. i qt. water. 

I tbsp. gelatine. . 2 lemons. 



ICE CREAMS AND SHERBETS. 21 7 

Soak the gelatine in J c. cold water 2 h. Pare off 
the thin yellow rind of the lemons and cut the gin- 
ger into small pieces. Heat 2 c. of the i qt. of 
water to boiling, pour over the ginger and lemon 
peel; steep, closely covered, 10 m., add the gelatine, 
sugar ; when dissolved strain, add the remainder of 
the water and freeze. Use i qt. of water in all. 

FROZEN APRICOTS. 

i can apricots. i c. sugar. 

2 c. water. i c. whipped cream. 

Put the apricots and sugar in a bowl. Cut up 
with a knife and fork into small pieces; add the 
water, and when the sugar is dissolved, freeze. 
When partly frozen remove the dasher and fold in 
the cream. They are delicious without the cream. 
Prepare frozen peaches, strawberries and other fruits 
the same way. 

CAFE PARFAIT. 

2 c. cream. i c. sugar. 

■J- c. strong coffee. 

Put all together in a bowl, set in ice, whip and 

take the froth off on to sieve set in a bowl. Let it 

drain 10 m., then put lightly into a freezer packed in 

ice and salt. Cover tight and freeze 3 h. 

GRAPE SHERBET. 

I pt. water. i c. grape juice. 

I c. sugar. 

Mix ; when the sugar is dissolved, freeze. You 

may take one cup of grape preserves and boil with 

the sugar and water for five minutes ; strain it, and 

when cold, freeze. 



FRUIT. 

As soon as fruit comes from the market it should 
be looked over thoroughly and put at once near the 
ice or in as cool a place as you have. To be deli- 
cious, it must be ripe, fresh and cold. Apples, ba- 
nanas, pears and peaches should be wiped off. 
Grapes should be rinsed in cold water, drained on a 
sieve, and cut into small bunches, unless you need the 
bunches large for decorating. Grapes or cherries look 
very pretty served in small clusters in a deep glass 
dish of chipped ice. Oranges may be served whole 
or cut in half, crosswise. Melons should lie on the 
ice at least lo h. before serving, and you may serve 
the small ones, cut in half and chipped ice in the 
middle ; but this takes away from the delicate flavor. 
Blackberries, huckleberries and currants should be 
washed ; strawberries, if sandy, may be washed care- 
fully ; never wash raspberries, but pick over very 
gently, seeing that there are no little insects in 
them. Serve sugar and cream with the fruit, but 
never put it on it. 

BAKED APPLES. 

Wipe the apples, remove the core, put on a bak- 
ing-dish and into each apple put i tsp. sugar and i 
tbsp. water. Bake in a hot oven, turning often that 
they may cook evenly. When done put on a dish 
carefully and pour a little juice into each apple 
APPLE SAUCE. 

Have a granite pan f full of boiling water. Cut 

218 



FRUIT. 219 

one apple into quarters, core and pare it, cut the 
quarters into three slices, and drop at once into the 
boiling water. Work very quickly until you have 
three apples done, cover the saucepan and boil about 
5 m., until the apples are soft ; skim out, drain 
against the side of the pan, and press immediately 
through a wire sieve. Put more apples in to boil 
and continue till all are used. Sweeten to taste. 
Unless you work quickly, the apple sauce will be 
dark-colored. Wash the sieve as soon as done thor- 
oughly, as the acid of the apple acts on the wire and 
produces a poison if left there. Hair sieves are best. 

ATALANTA APPLES. 

3 apples. I inch stick cinnamon. 

2 c. sugar. 6 rounds of thin bread. 

2 c. boiling water. A little currant jelly. 
I slice of lemon peel. 
Boil the sugar, water, lemon and cinnamon 10 m. 
Halve, core and pare the apples. Cook as many as 
will float in the boiling syrup, till you can pass a 
straw through them. Drain from the syrup and dry 
in the oven a few minutes, and sprinkle with a very 
little powdered sugar. When all the apples are 
cooked, dip the rounds of bread quickly in the 
syrup, lay on a flat dish, spread with jelly and put 
a piece of apple on each round of bread. Boil the 
syrup a few minutes more, pour around the apples 
and set aside to cool. Put a bit of jelly on each 
apple and serve with whipped cream. 

APPLES FOR LUNCHEON. 
I c. sugar. I inch stick cinnamon. 

I c. water. i slice lemon. 



220 THE YOUNG COOK'S GUIDE. 

Put all on the fire and boil lo m. Cut the apple 
In quarters, pare, core and cook in the boiling syrup 
till a straw will pass through them. Drain carefully 
and lay on a flat dish. When all are done strain the 
syrup and serve over or with the apples. 

STEWED PRUNES. 
-J lb. prunes. 2 tbsp. sugar. 

I slice lemon. i inch stick cinnamon. 

Soak the prunes i h. in cold water. Pour off the 
water and cover with boiling water ; stew till tender, 
about ^ h., add the sugar, lemon and cinnamon. 
Stew uncovered 15 m. 

CRANBERRIES. 
2 c. cranberries, i c. sugar. -J c. cold water. 
Wash the cranberries, drain well, put them in a 
granite pan, put the sugar on top, cover, and when 
they come to a boil, boil 10 m. Keep them closely 
covered all the time, and do not stir. Turn out on 
a dish, and when they cool, they will be like candied 
cherries. 

STEWED FRUIT. 

I c. cold water. i c. sugar. 

Put on the fire and boil for 10 m., then add the 
fruit, and simmer till tender. You may add one or 
two cloves, and a little stick of cinnamon, for pears 
and peaches, or a slice of lemon, or orange peel, but 
use no flavoring for. berries of any kind, and use -J c. 
water when stewing berries. 

FRUIT MERINGUE. 
Peel and cut up oranges carefully, removing and 
cutting out the hard centre part, also the white skin 
under yellow rind. Put a layer of oranges on a glass 



FRUIT. 221 

dish, sprinkle with powdered sugar, then a layer of 
sliced banana, sprinkle with sugar, squeeze a little 
lemon juice over the banana, then sprinkle grated 
cocoanut over. You may continue till all is used, 
and cover the top with cocoanut, or you may make 
it without the cocoanut, and cover the whole with a 
meringue made of the whites of 2 eggs, beaten stiff, 
and 2 tbsp. powd. sugar, added gradually. 

FRUIT BASKETS. 
With a sharp pointed knife cut baskets with han- 
dles out of whole oranges. Scoop out the oranges, 
wash out and dry the baskets, and fill with little 
cubes of banana, grapes, seeded, and cut in halves or 
quarters, pieces of peach, orange, or any fruit you 
desire. As you fill it, sprinkle a little powdered sugar 
on the fruit, and cover the fruit with grated cocoa- 
nut, or whipped cream. Tie a bow of ribbon on the 
handle and serve on a bed of greens. The fruit 
should be very cold. 

BERRY CASES. 

1 qt. berries. i large sponge cake. 

2 c. cream. -J c. sugar. 

Scoop out the inside of the cake, leaving the walls 
and bottom one inch thick. Put the cake on the 
dish it is to be served on ; just before serving pour 
a little cream on the bottom of the cake. Add the 
sugar to the cream and whip. Fill the opening made 
in the cake with berries, piled up in the centre ; sur- 
round the base with whipped cream, and pile whip- 
ped cream around the top edge of the cake, resting 
against the berries and reaching half way up the ber- 
ries. Serve at once. 



222 THE YOUNG COOK S GUIDE. 

RASPBERRY SNOW. 
2 c. red raspberries. i c. cold water. 
Whites 4 eggs. i c. boiling water. 

■| box gelatine. 2 c. whipped cream. 

I c. gran, sugar. 
Soak the gelatine in the cold water 2 h. Pour the 
boiling water over it, add the sugar when dissolved, 
stiain and set in pan of ice. Stir occasionally, and 
when it begins to thicken, add the beaten whites and 
whip with a wire spoon till quite stiff ; add the ber- 
ries carefully and put in a mold. Serve with whip- 
ped cream around the base and a few berries dotted 
over the top. 

GRATED PINEAPPLES. 
Pare the pineapple and remove all the eyes. 
Grate all but the tough part in the centre, sprinkle 
with a little sugar, add a little chipped ice. This is 
very refreshing. It may be frozen by making it a 
little sweeter, and adding a cup of cold water to 
every two cups of pineapple. 



BEVERAGES. 

Have the beverages to be served hot, very hot, 
and the ones to be served cold, very cold. When 
water is used to make them it must be freshly boiled, 
and not stand in the kettle all day or all night. The 
water, as it boils, loses its gases, and becomes flat 
and tasteless, and so ruins the flavor of the best tea 
or coffee. 

COFFEE (boiled.) 

I c. ground coffee. 5 c. boiling water. 

I c. cold coffee, or ^ c. cold water. 
2 egg shells. 
Grind the coffee just before using, mix it with the 
Ggg shells and cold water, or coffee. Pour on the 
boiling water and cover closely, boil 5 m.; draw to 
one side to settle. In 5 m. add ^ c. cold water, pour 
a little out to clear the spout, return to the pot and 
serve. After the meal, drain off the coffee left, and 
set aside for the cold coffee to use the next time. 
Do not keep it in the coffee pot, but wash the pot out 
with clear water ; never put the dishcloth into it ; 
clean and dry it, and leave partly uncovered till 
needed again. Rinse out before using with clear, 
cold water. One-third Mocha and two-thirds Java 
are the best combination. 

FILTERED COFFEE. 
Allow I tbsp. finely ground coffee to i c. water. 
Put the coffee in the pot, pour the water, which 
must be freshly boiled, and boiling, not simmering, 

223 



224 THE YOUNG COOIv'S GUIDE. 

over the coffee ; as it drains through the biggin, fill 
the top again until all the water required is used. 
Serve immediately, and be careful that the pot does 
not stand where it will boil. 

CAFE NOIR. 
May be made by either recipe, filtered coffee or 
boiled coffee, using 3 tbsp. coffee to i c. water, and 
if boiled use four egg shells, or the white of one egg 
mixed with the coffee and cold water. 

TEA. 
Have the water freshly boiled. Scald the tea pot. 
Put the tea in the pot, allowing i tsp. tea to i c. 
w^ater ; pour the boiling water on and steep 5 m. 
w^here it will not boil. Serve at once. It is best 
made in an earthen pot and should never be boiled, 
as it draws out the tannin and acts as a medicine. 

CHOCOLATE. 
I tbsp. sugar. 2 c. scalded milk. 

I square W. Baker & Co.'s -J tsp. vanilla extract, 
chocolate. 
Cut the chocolate in small pieces and put it with 
the sugar and J c. milk into a saucepan. Stir over 
the fire till smooth and glossy. Add the remainder 
of the milk gradually, and serve at once. If desired 
richer, use double the quantity of chocolate. 

COCOA. 
2 tbsp. sugar. 2 c. boiling water. 2 c. milk. 

2 tbsp. W. Baker & Co.'s Breakfast Cocoa. 
Scald the milk ; pour the boiling water gradually 
over the cocoa and sugar, stirring well all the time, 
and boil 5 m. Add the scalded milk, strain and 



BEVERAGES. 225 

•serve. A very little whipped cream beaten in at the 

last improves it. 

LEMONADE. 

I lemon. i c. boiling water. i tbsp. sugar. 

Remove the yellow peel by paring very thin, steep 
in the boiling water ro m.; cover, strain, add the 
sugar, and when cold add the lemon juice. 

ORANGEADE. 
Prepare the same as for lemonade. 



SUNDRIES. 

BREAD CRUMBS. 
Not one crumb of bread should be wasted. The 
stale slices ought to be toasted and used as a plate 
of hot toast, or as the foundation of warmed up meat, 
fish or vegetables, and if not enough to use in that 
way, small points of toast may be made to decorate 
with. The soft, white crumbs should be large, and 
used to cover all dishes made with white sauce, as 
they make a more delicious combination than the 
fine, sifted crumbs. The sifted crumbs should have 
the pieces thoroughly dried, either in a cool oven, or 
they may be tied up in a paper bag and hung near 
the fire. Roll them on an old board, as it will spoil 
a bread board ; sift through a fine sieve and put 
away in covered jar. No burnt or very dark-colored 
crusts should be used, and the proportion of half 
crust and half inside makes the most tempting brown 
when properly fried. They will keep for months, 
but should always be seasoned before using by shak- 
ing a little salt and pepper over them. After using 
them, sift what is left and save for future use. 

BUTTERED BREAD CRUMBS. 
I c. crumbs. i tbsp. butter. 

Melt the butter and pour slowly over the crumbs, 
tossing the crumbs lightly with a fork. 

CRACKER CRUxMBS. 
Save any bits of broken crackers, lay in a cool 
oven till crisp ; roll them and sift through a fine sieve. 

226 



SUNDRIES. 227 

BREAD SAUTED. 
I egg. I c. milk, i ssp. salt, i tbsp. sugar. 
Beat the egg in a shallow dish, add the salt, sugar 
and milk ; beat thoroughly and dip stale slices of 
bread in ; when soft, drain and fry in a little hot cot- 
tolene, turning over to brown the under side. 
Sprinkle with a little powdered sugar and serve at 
once. 

TOASTED CRACKERS. 
Lay the crackers on a shallow pan and put in a 
-moderate oven till thoroughly heated through. Re- 
move from the oven, spread with a very little butter, 
return to the oven and bake till a delicate brown. 

CRACKERS AND CHEESE. 
I tbsp. grated cheese. J ssp. pepper. J ssp. salt. 
Prepare the toasted crackers, mix the salt, pepper 
and cheese ; spread the crackers, return to the oven, 
bake until the cheese is melted. 

CROUTONS. 
Cut stale bread in slices one-half inch thick. Re- 
move the crusts and cut into one-half inch cubes. 
Fry in hot cottolene till light brown, or put on a tin 
plate and bake in the oven till delicate brown. 

DRESDEN PATTY CASES. 
Cut stale bread in slices one and one-half inches 
thick. Cut rounds out by laying a tin cup over and 
with a sharp knife cutting around. Cut a smaller 
round out, leaving the sides and bottom one-third of 
an inch thick. Fry in hot cottolene till delicate 
brown. Can be filled with any soft mixture of meat 
or vegetables. 



228 THE YOUNG COOK'S GUIDE. 

TOASTED BREAD CASES. 
Cut the bread as for dresden patty cases and toast 
till delicate brown in the oven or on a toaster. 

HAM TOAST. 

-J c. ham. Spk. cayenne. i egg. 

-J tbsp. butter. i tsp. cream. 

Mince the ham very fine. Beat the egg, add the 
cream, cayenne and ham. Make the toast, put the 
butter in a frying-pan when hot, add the ham and 
stir all the time till it thickens. Spread on the toast 
and serve. 

DRIPPINGS. 

Save all the scraps of fat, cut in small bits and put 
in a frying-pan. Pare a raw potato, cut in thin slices 
and add to the fat. As the fat melts pour it off 
through a fine sieve. Cook till the fat is light yellow. 
Many prefer to cover the fat with water and let the 
water boil away. These drippings are good to fry 
anything that you need a little fat for. Save some 
beef fat separate, and try it out alone, as directed 
above, and use with half lard for pastry. 

BRAISED BEEF. 

1 onion. i qt. boiling water. 

2 tbsp. drippings. i tbsp. flour. 
Boquet of mixed herbs. i '' butter. 

4 lbs. beef from the lower part of round. 
Dredge the meat with salt, pepper and flour. Cut 
the onion into small pieces and fry it in the drip- 
ping till yellow ; skim it out and put the beef into 
the dripping and brown it on all sides. Put the beef 
into a deep baking pan with the onion and the 
quart of boiling water. Tie the herbs in a small 



SUNDRIES. 229 

piece of cheese cloth and put them in the water. 
Cover closely and steam in a moderate oven for four 
hours. Baste every twenty minutes, add more water 
when this evaporates. When the meat is tender re- 
move it and the bag of herbs ; cook the tablespoon- 
ful of flour in the butter till brown, add the water 
gradually and season with salt and pepper. You 
may add a few mushrooms, tomato, chopped celery, 
or any small bit of cooked vegetables you may have 
to the sauce. Put the sauce over the meat and serve. 

POT ROAST. 

2 tomatoes, or i c. stewed tomatoes. 

4 lbs. beef from vein, rump, or round. 

I tbsp. drippings. I bay leaf. 

I onion. i c. hot water. 

Dredge the meat with salt, pepper and flour, and 
brown in the hot drippings. Skin the tomato, cut 
into quarters and put in a deep pot. Remove the 
meat from the drippings and lay on the tomatoes, 
cook the onion in the drippings, add onion, water 
and bay leaf to the meat and simmer, closely covered, 
till the meat is tender. Add a very little water as 
the water boils away. Season with salt and pepper. 
Serve hot, with the gravy thickened with a little 
flour, m.oistened in a little cold water and stirred 
into the tomato. 

PANNED CHICKEN. 
Choose young, tender chickens for this. After 
they are cleaned, split down the back, dredge with 
salt and pepper inside and out, lay them with the 
skin side up in a baking-pan ; fold the legs over one 
another and skewer into shape. Dredge with flour, 
II 



230 THE YOUNG COOK'S GUIDE. 

put small bits of butter all over the top and put in a 
hot oven with no water. After ten minutes, baste 
with a little hot water, in which you have dissolved 
a little butter. Bake until the chickens are brown 
all over and the joints separate easily. Baste every 
ten minutes. Make the gravy with a little flour, 
mixed smooth in a little cold water, and stirred into 
the liquid left in the pan. Add a little hot water if 
needed. Season with salt and pepper and add the 
giblets, which have been cooked and chopped fine. 

STEWED CELERY. 

I tbsp. butter. i tsp. salt. 

I '' flour. \ " white pepper. 

f c. milk, scalded. i small head of celery. 
Wash and clean the celery, cut in inch lengths and 
cook in boiling, salted water till tender. Drain 
thoroughly ; cook the flour and butter till smooth, 
add the hot milk gradually, stirring well ; cook two 
minutes, stirring all the time ; add the seasoning and 
celery. 

RAISIN AND RICE PUDDING. 

^ c. rice. i c. boiling water. 

^ tsp. salt. I c. " milk. 

I c. raisins. 2 tbsp. sugar. 

Wash and pick over the rice, put it with the boil- 
ing water and salt into the upper part of a double 
boiler ; place this on the stove and boil hard ten 
minutes. Place over hot water, steam twenty min- 
utes, then add the hot milk, sugar and raisins ; stir 
well with a fork and steam thirty minutes longer. 
Serve hot. 



SUNDRIES. 231 

LEMON SNOW. 
'i qt. milk. -J c. sugar. 

5 tbsp. cornstarch. Whites 4 eggs. 

■J- ssp. salt. -J- tsp. lemon. 

Mix the cornstarch with a little cold milk, scald 
the remainder of the milk, add the cornstarch to the 
hot milk, stirring all the time ; cook five minutes, 
stirring well. Add the sugar and salt ; when dis- 
solved set aside to cool. When cool add the flavor- 
ing, beat the whites stiff, and gradually pour over 
them the thickened milk. Put on the ice, and serve 
cold with cream or preserved fruit. 

STRAWBERRY OR RASPBERRY SPONGE. 

I qt. berries. i c. sugar. 

■J- box gelatine. Juice i lemon. 

i|- c. water. Whites 4 eggs. 

Soak the gelatine in half a cup of water two 
hours. Mash the berries with half the sugar, and 
let stand half an hour. Simmer the remaining cup 
of water and the remaining half cup of sugar to- 
gether for twenty minutes, add the gelatine ; when 
dissolved, strain ; mash the berries through a hair 
sieve, add them to the gelatine ; add the lemon and 
set in a pan of ice. Stir occasionally, and when it 
begins to thicken, fold in lightly the well-beaten 
whites. Pour into a mold wet with cold water, and 
set on ice. Serve with cream. 

SWEET OMELET. 

4 eggs. I tbsp. gran, sugar. 

J ssp. salt. I " powd. '' 

A few drops ext. of lemon. 
Separate the eggs, being careful not to let any of 



232 THE YOUNG COOK'S GUIDE. 

the yolk get into the whites. Beat the yolks with a 
dover beater till thick and creamy, add the gran, su- 
gar, salt and extract. Beat the whites stiff, add the 
powd. sugar, beat well ; pour the yolks over the 
whites, folding in lightly with a knife. Put a lit- 
tle butter on a frying-pan, when hot, see that it 
is melted all over the pan, put the omelet in by 
the teaspoonful. Cook until brown on the under 
side, put in the oven to set the rest for a few mo- 
ments, fold over and turn out on a hot dish, and 
dust with powdered sugar. Score with a red-hot 
poker. 

CUSTARD CREAM MERINGUE. 

5 eggs. i ssp. salt. 

3 tbsp. gran, sugar. 2 c. cream or milk. 

4 " powd. sugar. i tsp. vanilla. 

Scald the cream, beat the yolks, add the granulat- 
ed sugar and the salt, pour the cream over the 
eggs, stirring well, return to the fire, and cook till 
thick, stirring all the time ; add the flavoring, strain 
into a dish and let cool ; then beat the whites stiff, 
add the powdered sugar gradually and pile on top 
of the cream, and put in a cool oven about ten 
minutes. 

CHESTNUTS AND CREAM. 

Shell the chestnuts. Pour boiling water over 
them and remove the inner brown skin. Boil in 
salted water till soft. Drain and mash through a 
colander, pile up in a pyramid on a glass dish ; put 
two tablespoonfuls of sugar into one pint of cream, 
add a very little almond extract, only a few drops, 
whip the cream and pile around the chestnuts. 



SUNDRIES. 233 

STUFFED APPLES. 

Core and pare medium-sized tart apples, taking 
care to remove all the cores. Fill the cavity left by 
the core with the following mixture : 

i-J tbsp. butter. i c. large white bread crumbs. 

I" c. sugar. i tsp. cinnamon. 

Grated rind and juice i lemon. 
Mix the sugar, cinnamon and rind, mix this with 
the crumbs ; melt the butter and pour over the 
crumbs, tossing them with a fork. Put this mix- 
ture in the cavity, and a little on top of the apples. 
Squeeze a little lemon juice on top of the apples, 
put a teaspoonful of sugar in the spaces between the 
apples, and allow one teaspoonful water to two ap- 
ples. Pour the water in the pan, cook in a hot oven 
till the apples are soft but not out of shape. Shield 
the crumbs at first with a piece of buttered paper or 
another pan, then at last brown them. Serve hot 
or cold, with sweetened cream or creamy sauce. 
They are very delicious with no sauce. 

STUFFED PEARS. 
Prepare the same as stuffed apples. 

AMBROSIA. 

6 oranges. ^ c. grated cocoanut. 

^ c. powdered sugar. 
Peel the oranges and remove all the white skin, 
cut up in half-inch slices, then into small bits, re- 
moving all the hard centre. Sprinkle a little sugar 
over them, and set them on the ice for two hours. 
When ready to serve, pile on a glass dish, sift half 
the powdered sugar over them, cover them with the 



234 THE YOUNG COOK'S GUIDE. 

cocoanut, and sift the remainder of the sugar over 
the cocoanut. 

SALTED ALMONDS. 

Shell one-half pound of almonds. Pour boiling 
water over them. Let stand a few moments, put 
into cold water and rub off the skin. Spread on a 
pan ; when dry, add one teaspoonful of butter, and 
stir on top of the stove till all are greasy, put in the 
oven till pale yellow, turn often. When yellow, sift 
with one tablespoonful of fine table salt, shake well.. 
When cold, sift off almost all the extra salt. 

SALTED PEANUTS. 

May be prepared in the same way as salted 
almonds. 

ORANGE COMPOTE. 
•| c. hot water. Juice of i lemon. 

I pt. sugar. 9 oranges. 

Boil the water and sugar, skim the syrup, add the 
lemon juice. Peel the oranges, removing all the 
white skin ; cut across the middle, taking out the 
seeds, and drop them into the hot syrup three or 
four at a time. Let them scald five minutes, skim 
out the sections and place on a flat dish. When all 
are done, boil the syrup five minutes, pour over them 
and serve cold. 

WHIPPED CREAM. 

I c. cream. i tsp. vanilla. 

I tbsp. sugar. 

Put the cream, sugar and vanilla into a pint bowL 

Set this bowl in another bowl or pan filled with ice. 

When very cold put the whip churn in, tilt it a Httle 



SUNDRIES. 235 

that the bottom may not rest flat on the bottom of 
the bowl ; hold the churn firmly, with the left hand 
on the cover, draw the dasher up with a light, quick 
stroke, and push down with a hard, strong motion. 
Break the first bubbles that come, as they are too 
large ; skim the froth off into a sieve stood in an- 
other bowl ; use any cream that drains through from 
the froth to whip again. 

JELLIED TRIFLE. 

Whites 3 eggs. -J c. jelly. 

3 tbsp. powd. sugar. 
Beat the whites stiff. They should be fresh eggs 
and very cold, or they will not whip. Add the su- 
gar gradually, then the jelly ; beat well and serve in 
glasses. 

WELSH RAREBIT. 

i c. cream cheese. J tsp. salt. 

J c. cream or milk, i egg. 

I tsp. mustard. A few grains cayenne. 

I '^ butter. 3 slices of toast. 

Grate the cheese, put it with the milk on to heat ; 
make the toast ; mix the salt, pepper and mustard, 
add the well-beaten egg, beat well ; when the cheese 
is melted add the egg and butter, and cook over hot 
water until it thickens, stirring all the time. Do not 
cook over 2 m., or it will curdle. Put on the toast 
and serve. 



ODDS AND ENDS. 

PICKED-UP SOUP. 
I or 2 chop bones. -J- c. pieces of meat. 



I or 2 steak " 


i-J qts. water. 


"I onion. 


I tsp. salt. 


J carrot. 


J " pepper. 


J turnip. 


i c. split peas. 


I stalk celery. 


i c. tomato. 


I bay leaf. 


I sprig parsley. 



■J tbsp. dripping. 
Put the bones, meat, salt, pepper, peas, parsley 
and bay leaf on to boil. Chop the vegetables fine,^ 
fry till brown in the dripping, turn into the soup. 
Simmer for two or three hours. Strain the tomatOy 
strain the soup, skim off the fat, add the tomato to 
the soup ; season with salt, pepper, and a little sugar. 

WARMED-UP SALMON. 
Melt a small piece of butter in a frying-pan ; add 
one tablespoonful each of onion, carrot, turnip, and 
•J tsp. salt ; fry till brown, then lay in a few pieces of 
cooked salmon ; add one-third of a cup of stock ; 
simmer for half an houf; remove the fish, strain the 
gravy, season with salt, pepper, lemon juice and a 
little Worcester sauce. Pour over the fish and 
serve. 

PLAIN HASH. 

Equal parts of finely chopped 7neaf, not fat or 
gristle, and cooked potatoes ; cold boiled are the 
best, but mashed can be used. Put a little butter in 

236 



ODDS AND ENDS. 237 

a frying-pan, when hot add the hash and a very httle 
hot water. Boil until the water is almost gone, sea- 
son and serve. 

VEGETABLE HASH. 

Chop fine, small pieces of cabbage, beets, turnips 
and a little onion ; add as much potato as you have 
of all the others ; put a little dripping in a pan, 
when hot add the hash, season with salt and pepper 
and serve. 

CORNED-BEEF BALLS. 

Chop the meat as fine as meal, add half the quan- 
tity of hot mashed potato ; mix thoroughly with the 
meat, season with a little onion juice, mustard, cay- 
enne and salt, if needed. Shape into balls, roll in 
crumbs, egg and crumbs, and fry in hot cottolene. 

PRESSED MEAT. 
Chop any scraps of meat, which have been stewed 
till tender, very fine. Season highly with a little 
cloves, cinnamon, mace, allspice, salt, pepper and a 
few drops of onion juice. Add a little boiling stock, 
or you may boil any bones you may have a long 
time, and this will help it to jelly. Add the liquid 
to the meat, press into a square mold and set aside 
to cool. Cut in slices when ready to serve. You 
can decorate the top of the mold with rings of hard 
boiled egg, or a little parsley. 

CORN BEEF HASH. 
2 c. cooked corned beef, i tbsp. beef drippings. 
2 c. cold boiled potatoes. Salt and pepper, if needed. 
Cut the meat and potatoes into small pieces, season 
them, put the dripping in a frying-pan, when hot add 
the meat and potatoes, well mixed ; press and smooth 



238 THE YOUNG COOK'S GUIDE. 

down on the pan and cook until brown on the under 
side. Do not stir, but move the pan, that all may 
be evenly browned. Fold over carefully like an 
omelet and turn out on a hot platter. 

CORNED BEEF HASH NO. 2. 
I c. cold corned beef. i tbsp. butter. 
I c. hot mashed potato. Salt and pepper, if needed. 
A little bit of mustard. 
Chop the corned beef as fine as meal, add the potato 
and melted butter and mustard and beat thoroughly. 
Taste and season. Make into a small, high mound, 
on a platter, smooth it with a knife, spread a little 
soft butter over it and bake in a hot oven till brown 
all over. 

CORNED BEEF HASH NO. 3. 

I c. cooked corned beef. i tbsp. butter. 

I c. cold boiled potato. i c. cold water. 

Salt and pepper, if needed. 
Chop the potato and corned beef quite fine, taste 
and season them ; put the butter in a frying-pan ; 
when hot add the hash and the water; boil three 
minutes and serve. 

SCALLOPED VEAL. 
Remove the bone, fat and gristle from any cold 
cooked veal ; sprinkle a shallow dish with large, but- 
tered bread crumbs, cover with a layer of veal, cut 
in thin slices, in cubes, or chopped fine, as your meat 
will allow ; sprinkle with a little salt and pepper and 
pour a little veal gravy over, or a little stewed 
tomato, or tomato sauce. Cover with buttered 
crumbs and bake with the dish covered fifteen min- 
utes, then remove the cover and brown the crumbs. 



ODDS AND ENDS. 239 

SLICED BEEF WITH TOMATO SAUCE. 

I tsp. mustard. i small onion. 

I tbsp. butter. i c. stock, or gravy. 

6 tbsp. stewed tomato. i tbsp. Worcester sauce. 

Salt and cayenne pepper. Slices of beef or steak. 

Chop the onion fine, cook it in the butter till light 
yellow, add the tomato gradually, then the gravy, 
sauce and mustard. Season with salt and cayenne 
and warm the slices of meat in it. 

PICKED UP CHICKEN. 
I c. cold, cooked chicken. i tsp. lemon juice. 

I c. white sauce. 2 drops onion juice. 

3 tbsp. cold, cooked cranberries, i tsp. celery salt. 

Make the sauce, cut the chicken into small pieces, 
warm it in the sauce, season with salt and pepper, if 
needed, add the lemon juice and celery salt, serve in 
toasted bread cases, or dresden patty cases, with two 
sprigs of parsley and one teaspoonful of cranberry 
on top. 

COLD CHOPS WITH TOMATO SAUCE. 
Prepare either tomato sauce No. i or 2 ; lay the 
cooked chops in a frying-pan, pour the sauce over 
them, let it boil gently f^ve minutes and serve in the 
sauce ; decorate with points of toast. 

SCALLOPED HAM AND CHICKEN. 
Cut equal parts of cold roast or boiled chicken and 
ham into cubes or small bits. Prepare some large, 
white, buttered bread crumbs. Make one cup of 
white sauce. Line a baking-dish with a thin layer 
of crumbs, then a layer of meat ; add to the white 
sauce one-quarter of a teaspoonful of celery salt, or 
you may put a little chopped celery with the meat ; 



240 THE YOUNG COOK'S GUIDE. 

cover the meat with the sauce and cover the top 
with buttered crumbs. Bake, covered, for fifteen 
minutes, then remove the cover and brown the 
crumbs. 

SCALLOPED TURKEY. 
Cut up bits of cold, cooked turkey; if you have no 
gravy left, stew the bones in a very little water ; 
strain, remove the fat and use this as gravy ; put a 
layer of buttered crumbs in a dish, then a layer of 
turkey, sprinkle a little stuffing over the meat, then 
a little gravy ; if you have very little turkey and 
wish to make a larger dish, you may put in a layer of 
oysters and sprinkle with salt, pepper, and a little 
lemon juice. Cover with buttered crumbs and bake, 
covered, for fifteen minutes, then uncover and brown 
the crumbs. You may use tomato sauce, or a little 
stewed tomato in place of gravy. 

WARMED UP SWEET POTATOES. 
Make one cup of white sauce ; cut up into cubes 
or small pieces any cold, cooked sweet potatoes ; add 
to the white sauce when hot ; serve. Turnips, pars- 
nips, carrots, cauliflower and cabbage may be done 
in the same way. 

RICE BALLS. 
Put a little cold, boiled rice into a double boiler or 
a steamer and warm ; if very thick, you may add a 
teaspoonful of gravy. Add to this half the quantity 
of finely chopped meat. Season the whole with salt 
and pepper. Add to one cup of this mixture one 
well-beaten egg. When cold, shape into balls, the 
size of a large hickory nut and roll in crumbs, egg 
and crumbs and fry in hot cottolene. 



ODDS AND ENDS. 24 1 

RICE AND CHEESE. 

Take a cupful of cold, boiled rice and put it in an 
earthen dish, with alternate layers of grated cheese. 
Season with a little salt and a few little bits of but- 
ter. Over one cupful of bread crumbs pour slowly 
one tablespoonful of melted butter, tossing the 
crumbs with a fork ; cover the top with these crumbs. 
Put into one corner of the dish one cupful of milk, 
taking care not to wet the crumbs. Bake one-half 
hour. Serve hot. 

RICE FRITTERS. 

Add two or three tablespoonfuls of cold, boiled 
rice to the fritter batter and fry in hot cottolene. 
Sprinkle with powdered sugar. 

HOMINY PUDDING. 

I c. cold cooked hominy. 3 eggs. 

I tbsp. butter. 2 c. milk. 

I '' sugar. • Salt to taste. 

Beat the yolks, add the sugar, then the milk, pour 
this onto the hominy, mixing slowly with a fork, 
and try to free the hominy from lumps. Add 
the melted butter last. If the hominy has been 
properly salted you will need only one-half a salt- 
spoon of salt. Bake till firm — about thirty minutes. 
Serve with sauce or with sugar. 

OATMEAL BREAKFAST CAKES. 
i c. cooked oatmeal. i egg. 

■J c. flour. I tbsp. sugar. 

■J- c. milk. -J- tsp. salt. 

-J tsp. Cleveland's baking-powder. 
Mash the oatmeal with a fork, add the salt and 
sugar to it and mix thoroughly. Beat the egg, add 



242 THE YOUNG COOK'S GUIDE. 

the milk to it. Sift the flour and baking-powder into 
the oatmeal, add the milk, beat well, and put by the 
spoonful on to a well greased griddle ; when one side 
is brown, turn over and brown the other and serve at 
once with syrup or sugar. 

Hominy, rice, or any grain left over from the pre- 
vious breakfast may be used in this way. If the 
grain is very soft add a little more flour. The mix- 
ture should be thick enough to drop from a spoon, 
not pour. 

ITALIAN EGGS. 

Separate the eggs very carefully, keeping each 
yolk in half the shell, and stand up in something 
to prevent it falling over. Make as many rounds of 
toast as you have eggs, set on a hot dish where they 
will keep warm. Beat the whites stiff, adding i ssp. 
salt to every two eggs. Put a little butter in a pan ; 
when melted all over the pan, put in the yolk of one 
egg very carefully, so as not to break it, and cover 
it at once with a heaping spoonful of the beaten 
whites; when cooked, lift it up carefully and lay on 
the round of toast. Decorate with a sprig of pars- 
ley and serve at once. 

CORNSTARCH PUDDING. 

I tbsp. cornstarch. 2 eggs. 

I " powd. sugar. i tsp. butter. 

I c. milk, i ssp. salt. 2 tbsp. gran, sugar. 
Rub the cornstarch smooth in J c. cold milk ; add 
the gran, sugar and the yolks of the eggs and salt ; 
scald the milk and pour into this ; return to the 
fire and cook five minutes, stirring all the time. 
Add the butter, stir well, put in small molds, bake 



ODDS AND ENDS. 243 

fifteen minutes ; remove from the oven, spread with 
any small quantity of preserved fruit you may have ; 
beat the whites stiff, add the powdered sugar, pile 
on the top and bake in a cool oven fifteen minutes. 

TOMATOES AND RICE. 

I c. cold cooked rice. i c. stewed tomato. 

I tsp. sugar. I tbsp. butter. 

Mix the rice, tomato and sugar, add the butter, 
melted, put in a baking dish, cover with large, but- 
tered bread crumbs, and bake till the crumbs are 
brown. 

BREAD AND CURRANT PUDDING. 

1 pt. milk. 3 eggs. 

3 tbsp. gran, sugar. -| c. currants. 

2 '* powd. '' I ssp. cinnamon. 
Grated rind of one lemon. 

Thin slices of stale bread and butter. 
Line a small, shallow baking-dish with one layer 
of thin slices of stale bread, buttered ; mix half the 
gran, sugar with the cinnamon and lemon rind, and 
sprinkle over the bread, reserving a little for the 
next layer. Sprinkle half the currants over the 
bread. Beat the yolks of the eggs, add the half of 
the sugar that you did not mix with the cinnamon, 
add the milk to the beaten egg, and pour half of this 
over the bread. Add another layer of bread, sugar, 
cinnamon and currants, and pour on the remainder 
of the milk. Bake until brown — about thirty min- 
utes ; remove from the oven ; beat the whites stiff, 
add the powd. sugar gradually, heap on the top and 
bake in a cool oven for fifteen minutes. Serve hot 
or cold. 



244 THE YOUNG COOK'S GUIDE. 

APPLE AND RICE PUDDING. 

2 apples. I pt. milk. 

2 tbsp. rice. 2 eggs. 

2 " gran, sugar. -J- tsp. lemon extract. 

2 " powd. " -J ssp. salt. 

Pick over and wash the rice, and put it with the 
milk and salt into the double boiler, and cook thirty 
minutes. While this is cooking, put one pint of hot 
water in a granite pan on the fire, add half a cup of 
gran, sugar, let boil five minutes ; core, pare and 
quarter the apples and cook in this syrup till a straw 
will go through them. Drain them carefully and lay 
in a shallow dish. Lay away the syrup in which 
they were cooked to stew apples or fruit in again. 
Beat the yolks of the eggs, add the 2 tbsp. of gran, 
sugar to them, stir into the rice, remove at once from 
the fire, add the lemon extract and pour all over the 
apples. Bake about thirty minutes. Beat the 
whites stiff, add the gran, sugar gradually, heap on 
the top and cook in a cool oven fifteen minutes. 

APPLE BREAD AND BUTTER PUDDING. 

Core, pare and halve medium-sized cooking apples. 
Cut slices of stale bread one-half inch thick, and out 
of these cut as many rounds as you have apples, and 
just the size of the apples. Butter the slices of 
bread, lay an apple on each slice and sprinkle the 
apple with a little sugar, in which you have mixed a 
little grated rind of a lemon and a little cinnamon. 
Put a little dab of butter on top of each apple, and 
bake till the apples are done ; about thirty minutes. 
Add a little more butter when the apples are half 
done. 



ODDS AND ENDS. 245 

APPLES AND MERINGUE. 
Put one pint of hot water and one cup of sugar on 
the fire, boil five minutes. Core, pare and quarter 
the apples, and stew in this till a straw will pierce 
them. Drain very dry and lay apart till cold. Pile 
high on a dish, beat the whites of two eggs stiff, 
add two tablespoons of powdered sugar gradually, a 
few drops of lemon extract, and pile on top of the 
apples. 

COMPOTE OF PEARS. 
Put one pint of hot water, one cup of granulated 
sugar, one square inch of stick cinnamon and a thin 
slice of lemon peel in a saucepan, and boil five min- 
utes. Pare, core and cut the fruit into halves. 
Stew in the syrup till tender enough to pass a straw 
through them. Drain carefully, when all the fruit is 
cooked, boil the syrup a few minutes longer and pour 
it over the fruit. Serve cold. 

APPLES AND CREAM. 
Stew the apples as for apples for luncheon. Add 
2 tbsp. of sugar to i c. cream, whip it thoroughly, 
pile the apples on a glass dish and put the cream all 
over. 

SPONGE CAKE IN CUSTARD. 
Grated rind i lemon. Strawberry jam. 
2 eggs. I tbsp. gran, sugar. 

I c. milk. I '* powd. " 

Stale Sponge Cake. 

Put a layer of stale sponge cake or lady fingers in 
a small, shallow dish. Spread with jam ; raspberry 
or strawberry are the best. Scald the milk, beat the 
yolks of the eggs, add the gran, sugar and lemon 



246 THE YOUNG COOK'S GUIDE. 

rind, pour the milk over the eggs, pour over the 
cake. Bake about 20 m., till the custard is set. Re- 
move from the oven, beat the whites stiff, add the 
powd. sugar, beat well ; heap on the, top and bake 
15 m. in a cool oven. 

FRIED CAKE. 
Cut any stale cake into slices, beat one egg, add ^ c. 
milk, dip the cake into this and fry in hot cottolene. 
Drain on brown paper and serve hot. 

CAKE FRITTERS. 
Cut stale cake in slices one inch thick, and then 
into squares or rounds. Fry in hot cottolene until 
light-brown, spread with jelly or preserve, and serve 
hot with creamy sauce. 

BANANA BLANC MANGE. 
I qt. milk. J c. sugar. 

4 tbsp. cornstarch. i tsp. vanilla. 

2 or 3 bananas. 
Mix the cornstarch with a little cold milk, scald 
the remainder, pour on to the cornstarch, stirring all 
the time ; return to the fire and cook five minutes, 
stirring constantly ; add the sugar. Remove from 
the fire, when cool add the vanilla and the bananas 
sliced thin, pour into cups that have been dipped 
into cold water. Serve very cold. 



INVALID COOKING. 

Only a few hints will be given here in regard to 
the diet for the sick, as special courses and training 
are given in this branch of cooking. Always consult 
the attending physician with regard to the food and 
obey him ; relapses may occur from carelessness in 
this respect. Find out a number of dishes to choose 
from and then tax your ingenuity to the utmost to 
vary and tempt the appetite by a pleasing variety. 
Remember, it is the place of the nurse to help create 
an appetite by the attractiveness of the food. Serve 
very little at a time and in the most delicate way ; 
choose the prettiest cup, the daintiest napkin and 
the smallest tray. Never take the same thing twice 
in succession, put it in a different dish and always 
serve a little less than you want the patient to take ; 
it will generally whet the appetite to find so little. 
Taste every thing and see that it is palatable, before 
giving to the patient. Feed the patient slowly and 
if possible, have some little bit of pleasant news or 
something funny to tell them. They will relish the 
food more and it will do them more good. Never 
tell them what they are to have the next time or 
they wont take it. Surprise them with something 
different as often as possible. Remove every dish 
and particle of food from the room as soon as the 
patient has finished ; never keep even a cracker in 
the room, and fruit only long enough to please the 
eye, then put away in a cool place. Have the food 

247 



248 THE YOUNG COOK'S GUIDE. 

cooked by the best rules, that all the nourishment 
possible may be derived from it. See that the dishes 
to serve hot food in are warmed, and wash any deli- 
cate china yourself, that it may not be broken. Do 
not worry over the little nourishment taken ; re- 
member, that sometimes the system needs rest and 
very little food is required, but in the most digestible 
form ; for the stomach is feeble, like the rest of the 
body. In building up, the system must have what 
has been burned up, or wasted away during sickness. 
Protieds from the animal kingdom, butter and cream 
for the fats, and starchy foods prepared so as to be 
easily digested, such as gruels ; oxygen also must be 
brought as regular as the food, for if the lungs are 
not supplied with pure air, the food cannot give the 
strength to the body which it needs. 

Among the best protieds are milk, beef tea, made 
of lean meat, juice of rare beef, squeezed out with a 
lemon squeezer, mutton broth, chicken broth, and a 
very fresh egg. Starchy foods in the form of gruels ; 
rice will not tax the most delicate digestion, and bar- 
ley is also good. Toast is considered invalid food 
because in the process of toasting, part of the starch 
is changed into dextrine, which is more easily di- 
gested ; but it must be thoroughly dried, or it is little 
better than hot bread, 

A mealy, baked potato, but no potatoes cooked in 
any other way. 

Broiled or roasted meats, but no fried food of any 
kind. 

The juice, but not the pulp of fruits. 

HOW TO CARE FOR THE SICK. 

Have every thing scrupulously neat about your- 



INVALID COOKING. 249 

self, the patient and the room. Wear some soft, 
washable dress, never black, as color has a great 
effect upon the feelings ; noiseless shoes, and make 
yourself look as sweet and attractive as possible. It 
does a patient good to see any thing pretty and tidy 
around them. 

Wipe up the dust from under the bed with a damp 
cloth tied over a brooni. Shield the patient from all 
draught and the eyes from any strong light. Air all 
clothing thoroughly, away from the room, and slightly 
warm any change of clothing before using. 

Have no flowers in the room and never use a lamp 
in a sick room. An open fire-place or stove is very 
good, giving a circulation of air. Put coal on by put- 
ting a few pieces in a paper bag and put bag and 
coal on together ; this may be done without waking 
the patient. 

You can wring out hot bandages by putting them 
in the middle of a dry towel and twisting the ends 
of the towel. 

When you have no ice and need cool cloths, wring 
out of cold water and wave in some window or open 
door ; this will prove much more grateful than when 
wrung out of ice water and is used in hospitals in 
the tropics. 

OATMEAL GRUEL. 

Pound a quarter of a pound of coarse oatmeal on 
an old bread board until it is floury. Put this into 
a small bowl and fill the bowl with cold water ; stir 
thoroughly, let it settle and pour off the water, being 
careful not to take any of the sediment. Fill with 
cold water again, stir and pour off and repeat once 
more. Add one saltspoonful of salt and boil the 



250 THE YOUNG COOK'S GUIDE. 

water twenty minutes, stirring often. Strain, thin 
it with a little cream or milk and season with a little 
more salt, if needed ; serve hot. Beef juice, beef 
tea, or beef extract, may be used in place of the 
cream. 

OATMEAL GRUEL NO. 2. 

2 tbsp. oatmeal. i ssp. salt. i-J c. boiling water. 
Put the oatmeal and salt in the boiling water and 
boil for forty minutes. Strain through a fine wire 
strainer, put on the fire again, thin it with milk or 
cream, bring to the boiling point and serve hot. 
Many people like a teaspoonful of sugar in it, but 
some prefer it without. 

FARINA GRUEL. 

I tbsp. farina. i c. boiling water. 

I ssp. salt. I c. milk. 

Mix the farina and salt, pour the boiling water on 
to the farina, stirring ; cook ten minutes. Add the 
milk, boil one minute and serve hot. You may add 
one teaspoonful of sugar if desired. 

BARLEY GRUEL. 
I tbsp. barley-flour. i ssp. salt. 

I c. boiling water. i c. milk. 

Mix the barley-flour and salt with a little cold 
water, pour on the boiling water and boil ten min- 
utes ; add the milk, bring to the boiling point and 
serve. A teaspoonful of sugar may be added if de- 
sired. 

ARROWROOT GRUEL. 
I tbsp. arrowroot. i ssp. salt. 

I c. boiling water. 
Wet the arrowroot and salt with a little cold 



INVALID COOKING. 25 I 

water, pour on the boiling water, stirring ; boil ten 
minutes, thin with a little milk if desired, and you 
may add a little sugar. 

CRACKER GRUEL. 

2 tbsp. cracker crumbs. ^ ssp. salt. 
I c. milk. I c. boiling water. 

Pour the water on to the crumbs slowly, stirring, 
add the salt, add the milk, boil i minute and serve. 

OATMEAL MUSH. 
I c. oatmeal. 3^ c. boiling water. 

i tsp. salt. 
Put all in a double boiler and cook two hours. 
Serve with cooked apples, for invalids or children. 

HOMINY MUSH. 

f c. hominy. i qt. boiling water. 

I tsp. salt. 
Put in a double boiler and cook two to three 
hours, according to the size of the hominy. 

PANADA NO. I. 
I pt. water. -J- c. bread crumbs. 

i tsp. butter. i level tsp. sugar. 

Boil the water and crumbs for fifteen minutes, or 
until the mixture is perfectly smooth, stirring well ; 
then add the butter and the sugar. You may boil 
half a cup of raisins in the water for half an hour, 
and then skim out and use it to cook with the bread, 
or you may use a blade of mace for the seasoning, or 
a little nutmeg. The butter may be omitted, if de- 
sired. 

PANADA NO. 2. 
Split any hard biscuits, put them in layers in a 



252 THE YOUNG COOK'S GUIDE. 

bowl, sprinkling a little salt and sugar over each 
layer. Cover them with boiling water and stand the 
bowl in a pan of boiling water, and let stand until 
the crackers are clear. The crackers should be per- 
fectly soft but unbroken, and the bowl should be 
tightly closed while steaming. 

OATMEAL PORRIDGE. 
2 tbsp. oatmeal. -J c. cold water. 

I pt. boiling water. J tsp. salt. 

Mix the oatmeal and the cold water, add the salt, 
pour on the boiling water and boil for forty minutes, 
stirring often. Serve with milk, 

MILK PORRIDGE. 

I pt. milk. I tbsp. flour. 

Salt to taste. 

Rub the flour to a smooth paste, with a little cold 

milk. Put the remainder of the milk on the fire, 

and when boiling add the flour, stirring well ; boil 

ten minutes. Season with salt, strain and serve. 

You may sweeten it if you prefer. 

OYSTER TEA NO. i. 
Put eight freshly-opened oysters into a stew-pan, 
with their own liquor, and simmer for five minutes. 
Then strain the liquor, season with a little salt and 
white pepper, and serve hot, with a bit of toast. 

OYSTER TEA NO. 2. 

Chop eight oysters, put them on the fire, bring to 

a boil, simmer five minutes, strain, add a little milk ; 

as soon as hot season with white pepper and salt, 

and serve. Do not boil or it will curdle. 

PAN-BROILED OYSTERS. 

Drain the oysters and dry thoroughly on a towel. 



INVALID COOKING. 253 

Have a small hot frying-pan, put a small piece of 
butter in ; when it melts let it run all over the pan, 
lay in one oyster at a time, and turn immediately. 
Cook only three at a time, for the pan should be 
very hot, and the first one will be done by the time 
the third is put in. Serve at once on a small bit of 
toast. 

CREAMED OYSTERS. 

I pt. oysters. i tbsp. cornstarch. 

I '' cream. i blade mace. 

Salt and pepper to taste. i tbsp. butter. 

Remove all shell from the oysters by passing 
through the fingers. Scald the cream with the mace, 
cook the butter and cornstarch till smooth and 
frothy, add the cream slowly, stirring free from all 
lumps ; when half the cream is used remove from 
the fire and give a thorough beating ; add the re- 
mainder slowly, stirring well. Put the oysters in a 
shallow pan on the fire and cook till plump, shaking 
the pan so they may not burn. Drain, add to the 
cream, season and serve on toast or with points of 
toast. 

ROASTED OYSTERS. 

Wash the shells thoroughly. Put them in a very 
hot oven with the hollow side of the shell down, so 
as to hold the juice. When the shells open remove 
the upper half of the shell ; season them with salt, 
pepper and a very little butter. Serve in their shells 
immediately. 

CLAM BROTH. 
Wash the clam shells thoroughly, put about five 
or six clams in a kettle, with a very little water ; not 
12 



254 THE YOUNG COOK S GUIDE. 

over three-quarters of a cup. Boil up once, and 
when the shells open it is done. Do not add salt, as 
it is generally salt enough. 

CLAM SAUCE ON TOAST. 
lO clams. -J tbsp. butter. 

i c. liquor of clams. -g- tsp. lemon juice. 

Salt and pepper. ^ blade mace. 

Boil the butter and the liquor, add the clams, and 
boil eight minutes. Add the lemon juice, season 
with a little salt and white pepper, and serve on 
toast. 

BOILED RICE WITH MILK. 

•J- c. rice. ■§- tsp. salt. 2 c. milk (hot.) 
Pick over and wash the rice, put it with the salt 
and the milk into the top of a double boiler. Steam 
one hour, or until each grain is soft. Serve with a 
little sugar. 

RICE-FLOUR MILK. 

f c. boiling milk. i tbsp. rice-flour. 

I tbsp. sugar. J c. cold milk. 

Mix the rice-flour with the cold milk till smooth ; 
add the sugar, pour on the boiling milk ; return to 
the fire and cook ten minutes, stirring well. Add 
the flavoring and serve hot. 

BISCUIT AND MILK 
Split one hard water cracker in half, soak in milk 
for six hours, or until the biscuit is soft. Serve with 
a very little salt, or a little sugar. 

SOFTENED BISCUITS.' 
Split any hard cracker in half, pour a little boiling 
water over it, cover, and set where it will keep warm ; 
add a little boiling water as this is absorbed and 



INVALID COOKING. 255 

when the cracker is soft spread a little butter on the 
top and serve hot. This is very palatable. 

TOAST. 

Cut stale bread into slices about one-quarter of an 
inch thick. Put it in a toaster and put over the lids 
until dry, then brown over the fire. If it is not 
thoroughly dry it is very indigestible and butter 
should never be added while the toast is hot, if to 
serve to an invalid. 

WATER TOAST. 

Dip slices of dry toast into boiling salted water, 

allowing one-quarter of a teaspoonful of salt to one 

cupful of water. Spread with a little butter and 

serve hot. 

MILK TOAST NO. i. 

Toast as directed, spread with a very little butter 
and pour over the slice a little hot milk in which you 
have put a few grains of salt. Serve very hot. The 
butter may be omitted if not allowed. 

MILK TOAST NO. 2. 
I c. hot milk. i ssp. salt. 

I tsp. cornstarch. %; tbsp. butter. 

Melt the butter in a small pan, add the dry corn- 
starch and salt, cook till smooth and frothy ; add the 
hot milk slowly, stirring well ; when one third of the 
milk is used give a thorough beating, add the re- 
mainder of the milk ; pour between each slice of 
toast and over the top. 

CUSTARD TOAST. 
i-J c. hot milk. Yolks of 2 eggs. 

i ssp. salt. I tsp. sugar. 

Slices of toast. 



256 THE YOUNG COOK'S GUIDE. 

Make the toast, beat the eggs, add the sugar and 
the salt ; pour the hot milk on to the eggs, stirring 
well ; return to the fire and cook till thick as cream, 
stirring all the time. Strain, add a little flavoring 
and pour over the toast. This may be served cold, 
if desired. You may also leave out the sugar if you 
prefer. 

RAW BEEF SANDWICHES. 

Cut stale bread into slices one-quarter of an inch 
thick. Remove all crust ; cut into two inch squares. 
Toast till dr}^ and delicate brown ; spread with thin 
layer of the scrapings from a small piece of rare, 
juicy, tender beef. Season with a little salt, white 
pepper ; cover with another piece of toast and serve 
while the toast is hot. These are very delicious and 
can be given to children when they refuse meat. 

TOASTED CRACKERS. 

Lay thin crackers on a toaster, or on a tin pan in 
the oven and toast until crisp. If butter is allowed 
you may spread a very little over them before toast- 
ing and toast till the crackers are perfectly dry. If 
the butter is merely melted on the top of the 
crackers it is very indigestible ; but if you keep 
them in the oven long enough they will be perfectly 
dry and crisp and very delicious. 

CRACKERS AND MARMALADE. 

Put the crackers on a tin plate in the oven for a 
few minutes. Spread with a little butter and then a 
thin layer of orange marmalade between ; set in the 
oven for a few moments. 



INVALID COOKING. 257 

BEEF TEA. 

I pt. cold water. -J tsp. salt. 

I lb. beef off the top of the round. 
Put the water and salt into the top of a double 
boiler, scrape the meat off until you have nothing 
left but the tough membrane. Put the meat as you 
scrape it into the water. Let it soak for two hours, 
then put over hot water and cook thirty minutes. 
Press through a strainer. Remove the fat, by lay- 
ing unglazed, coarse brown paper on top to absorb it. 

BEEF TEA (bottled). 

"i lb. beef off the top of the round. 

I c. cold water. ■§- tsp. salt. 

Cut off everything but the lean fibre, cut into very 

small pieces, put in a glass jar, and cover with the 

water ; add the salt, cover the bottle, and set in a 

pan of cold water ; heat the water gradually, but do 

not boil it ; let it remain in hot water for one and 

one-half hours, strain out the juice by pressing the 

meat. 

BEEF JUICE. 

I lb. beef off the top of the round. 
•§• tsp. salt. 
Cut off all fat, cut the meat in very small pieces, 
put in a bottle, cover and stand in a pan of cold 
water ; heat gradually, but do not boil. Let it stand 
in hot water for one hour, strain out the juice by 
pressing the meat. This will make about three 
tablespoonfuls of juice. 

BEEF BROTH. 

I lb. beef off the top of the round. 
I pt. cold water. J tsp. salt. 



258 THE YOUNG COOK'S GUIDE. 

Chop the meat very fine, put it with the salt into 
the cold water, let stand a half hour, put on the 
stove, heat gradually and simmer closely covered for 
two hours. Strain through a very coarse strainer,, 
remove the fat, season, and serve hot. 

MUTTON BROTH. 

1 qt. cold water. -J tsp. salt. 

I lb. mutton, from the neck. 
Remove the skin and fat and cut the meat into 
small pieces, and break the bones ; put the meat,, 
bones and salt into water, heat slowly, simmer for 
three hours. Remove the fat and the bones, season^ 
and serve hot. If you have time, allow it to get 
cold, then you can remove all the fat. A little bar- 
ley or rice may be cooked in the broth. 

CHICKEN BROTH. 

Select a fowl, not a young chicken. Prepare the 
chicken for cooking, cut into small pieces, put in a 
saucepan and cover with cold water ; add one-half 
teaspoonful of salt. Heat gradually and simmer for 
three hours, keeping it closely covered. You may 
add a little barley or rice when you put it on, and 
serve a little of it and a few bits of chicken with the 
broth. 

FARINA CUSTARD. 

2 c. milk. J c. sugar. 

3 tbsp. farina. 2 eggs. 

•J tsp. vanilla. |- ssp. salt. 

Scald the milk, beat the eggs, add the sugar and 

salt ; mix the farina with a quarter of a cup of cold 

milk, add to the eggs, pour on the milk, stirring 

well. Return to the fire and cook eight minutes,. 



INVALID COOKING. 259 

stirring all the time. Add the vanilla, turn into lit- 
tle molds, which have been dipped in cold water and 
set aside to harden. Serve very cold, with straw- 
berry or raspberry preserve, or custard sauce. 

CHICKEN CUSTARD. 

1 c. chicken broth. Yolks 3 eggs. 
Scald the broth, beat the yolks, pour the broth on 

to them, stirring well ; return to the fire and cook 
till slightly thickened, stirring all the time. Salt to 
taste, strain, and serve cold. 

BEEF TEA CUSTARD. 

2 eggs. I c. cold beef tea. 

Salt and pepper. 
Scald the beef tea, beat the eggs, pour the beef 
tea on to the eggs, taste it and season, put into but- 
tered cup and bake in a pan of hot water about 
thirty minutes. 

TAPIOCA CREAM. 

2 c. milk. 2 tbsp. gran, sugar. 

^ c. tapioca. 2 eggs. 

■J ssp. salt. i" tsp. vanilla. 

Soak the tapioca for four or five hours in cold 
water, enough to cover. Drain off all the water if 
there is any left, and put into a double boiler with 
the milk, and cook, stirring all the time till clear. 
Beat the yolks and the sugar, add the salt ; add this 
to the tapioca, and boil one minute, stirring all the 
time. Remove from the fire, beat the whites stiff, 
fold in lightly, add the flavoring, and put in small 
glasses to cool. 



26o THE YOUNG COOK'S GUIDE. 

ORANGE CREAM. 

•J box gelatine. 2 c. cream. 

I c. sugar. 2^ c. milk. 

f c. orange juice. Yolks of 5 eggs. 

Soak the gelatine in half a cup of milk one hour. 
Scald the remainder of the milk ; beat the eggs, add 
the sugar, pour the milk on to them, stirring well ; 
return to the fire and cook till a little thicker than 
cream, stirring all the while. Remove from the fire, 
add the gelatine ; when dissolved strain, and when 
cold, add the orange juice, strained through a sieve. 
Set in a pan of ice, stir occasionally ; whip the cream 
and when the jelly begins to thicken fold the cream 
in lightly ; turn into molds dipped in cold water. 
Serve plain, or with whipped cream. 

CREAM CORNSTARCH PUDDING. 

I c. milk. ^ tsp. lemon extract. 

J c. sugar. I egg. 

2 level tbsp. cornstarch. 
Mix the cornstarch with a little cold milk, scald 
the remainder of the milk ; beat the egg, add the 
sugar to it, add this to the cornstarch ; pour the 
boiling milk on to the cornstarch, return to the fire 
and cook five minutes, stirring all the time. Add 
the flavoring, turn into small molds, wet in cold 
water. Set on the ice to harden ; serve with custard 
sauce, flavored with lemon, or it is very nice plain. 

ARROWROOT BLANC MANGE. 

1 c. boiling milk. li tbsp. arrowroot. 

2 tsp. sugar. Flavoring. 

J c. cold milk. 
Rub the arrowroot smooth in the cold milk, add 



INVALID COOKING. 26 1 

the sugar, pour the boiHng milk over it, return to the 
fire and cook five minutes stirring all the time ; add 
the flavoring. Set in small cups which have been 
dipped in cold water ; serve cold, with cream. 

TAPIOCA BLANC MANGE. 

^ c. tapioca. i-J- tbsp. sugar, 

ij- c. boiling milk. Flavoring. 

Soak the tapioca in cold water (enough to cover) 
for four hours, or over night is better. Then stir in 
the boiling milk, the tapioca and the water in which 
it was soaked. Add the sugar and boil very slowly 
till the tapioca is perfectly clear. This will depend 
-on how long you have soaked it. Take off and 
flavor and set aside to cool. If the invalid can have 
it, strawberry preserves with this is delicious. 

RICE CUSTARD. 

J c. sugar. • -J ssp. salt. 

I pt. hot milk. 2 eggs. 

^ c. cold cooked rice. 
Put the rice and salt into the milk and soak until 
€very grain is distinct. Separate the eggs, beat the 
yolks with the sugar, add the rice and milk to them, 
return to the pan and cook till the eggs are thick- 
ened like custard. While still hot, beat the whites, 
fold them in lightly and set away to cool. Or 
you may leave the whites until the custard is cold, 
then beat them up stiff, add one and one-half table- 
spoonfuls of powdered sugar to them, heap on the 
top of the pudding and brown in the oven. Serve 
■cold, either way. 



262 THE YOUNG COOK'S GUIDE. 

JELLIED RICE. 

2-1 c. milk. I tbsp. gelatine. 

3 ^ggs (yolks.) J c. cream. 

3 tbsp. rice. 3 tbsp. sugar. 

A few drops of vanilla extract. 
Soak the gelatine in J c. milk i h. Wash the rice 
and steam in i c. milk 30 m. Put the remaining ij 
c. milk in a double boiler ; when scalded, beat the 
yolks, add 2 tbsp. sugar and pour the hot milk over 
them ; return to the boiler and cook till thick as 
cream, stirring all the time ; remove at once from 
the fire, add the gelatine and remainder of the sugar. 
When dissolved, strain and set away to cool. When 
cold, add the vanilla and rice, whip the cream and 
stir in lightly and set in a mold to harden. Serve 
with or without preserved fruit. 

FARINA BLANC MANGE. 
2 c. milk. 2 tbsp. farina. 

2 eggs. i c. sugar. 

J tsp. lemon. i ssp. salt. 

Wet the farina with a little cold milk, add the salt ; 
scald the remainder of the milk, beat the yolks, add 
the sugar to them. Stir the farina into the milk, 
cook fifteen minutes, stirring often ; add the yolks 
and boil two minutes longer. Remove from the fire, 
add the flavoring and, lastly, the well beaten whites, 
folded in lightly. Pour into molds which have been 
wet in cold water ; and set aside to cool. Serve with 
sugar and cream. 

CURRANT ICE. 
I c. red currant juice. i c. sugar. i c. water. 

Mix ; when the sugar is dissolved, freeze. 



INVALID COOKING. 263 

FROZEN BEEF TEA. 

Take one pint of any kind of good beef tea, season 
to taste, and freeze. 

JELLY AND ICE. 

Fill a glass half full of finely chipped ice, add the 
same quantity of an acid jelly, such as currant or 
grape, broken into small bits, stir thoroughly and 
serve at once. This is very refreshing for fever, and 
quite harmless. 

TO PREPARE AN ORANGE. 

Remove all the yellow skin and as much as possi- 
ble of the white skin. With a very sharp knife cut 
from the outside through a section to the middle of 
the orange ; turn the soft inside part of the section 
out, taking care not to cut the dividing membrane. 
Take the next section, and follow right round the 
orange ; sprinkle with sugar and mix a little chipped 
ice with it. Serve at once. 



COMPANY. 

When at last the deed is done and the day is set, 
begin to plan and lay out your work. As you think 
of little things to be done, make a note of them. 
An excellent way is to jot under headings of differ- 
ent days the work to be done on them. Look over 
your table linen and have it laundered the week be- 
fore, not only to lighten the wash, but because it is 
sure to rain, and the table-cloth be badly done ! 
Have any little draperies, covers or towels that you 
need, clean, laid in a convenient place, but not where 
you will forget where they are ! The week before see 
that the dress you wish to wear is in perfect order, 
with the laces or fixings tacked in and choose a dress 
that you can get into quickly. See that there 
are plenty of pins and hair pins in the cushions. 
Look over and have the silver cleaned, and the china 
washed a day or so before. Have all sweeping done 
the day before, and everything thoroughly dusted, 
that it may need but little time to go over it on that 
day. 

In preparing the menu, select dishes which under 
the most unfavorable circumstances you are sure can 
be turned out satisfactory ; for as Dr. Talmage says : 
^' Stoves belong to a fallen race, and the best of them 
sometimes proves tricky. Sometimes they fiy into 
a hot temper and burn things up, and sometimes 
they will pout for half an hour, because a green chip 
or unseasoned stick of wood is thrown at them. 

264 



COMPANY. 265 

The best dispositioned stove will sometimes refuse 
to broil or stew, or bake, or frizzle ! You coax it in 
every possible way. You reason with it and tell it 
how important it is that it does its duty, for com- 
pany has come or a departing guest must meet the 
train, and you are too tired to bother any longer, 
and all it does is to sputter ! " 

Never attempt anything new. Try it two or three 
times before. If there is anything particularly nice 
that you know how to make, choose that as one of 
the dishes, unless it requires too much time at the 
last. 

Read over carefully each recipe and make a note 
of each item on your marketing list, even to a sprig 
of parsley ; and do not cross them out until yoit see 
them ill the house. Send all the groceries you can, 
home the day before and ask if the other articles on 
your list will be in market on that day. Allow a lit- 
tle extra time for some one to go for things which 
have been ordered but " have'nt come." 

Make a point to see that the children have three 
wholesome meals at their regular time ; thin crackers 
put in the oven till crisp, with a glass of milk and a 
cookey, are an easy supper. Keep all sweetmeats 
and dainties, as much as possible, out of sight ; do 
not bribe them with " bits " and " a taste " all day 
long, or they will be fretful and sick by night. If 
they should seem to be ailing, as they often do on 
that day, dont worry ; give them the best thing you 
know for them and try to get some good Samaritan 
to come in and stay with them until you are re- 
heved. Probably they'll be all right by the follow- 
ing day. As early as possible lay out all the dishes 



266 THE YOUNG COOK'S GUIDE. 

on a table near at hand and have them labeled for 
the different courses and go over them slowly with 
the servant who is to have charge of them. Have a 
list of the dishes to be served written plainly and 
tack it up yourself in the most convenient place ; one 
list in the kitchen and one in the serving pantry. 

Try and eat your meals, or at least drink a cup of 
tea or coffee. A glass of milk or a cup of tea taken 
just before they arrive will often relieve nervousness. 
When it is all over remember only the pleasant part 
and forget the mistakes that seemed so large to you 
and perhaps were not seen at all by others. 



TO PREPARE CANNED VEGETABLES. 

Open the can, drain off all the liquid, turn the 
vegetable into a colander and rinse thoroughly in 
cold water. Put in a saucepan, cover with cold 
water and bring to the boiling point. Throw this 
water off immediately and season the vegetable with 
butter, salt and pepper. The two cold waters help 
to remove the taste of the tin. 

TO CLEAN CURRANTS. 

Rub with flour, put in a colander and shake the 
stems off ; rinse three times in cold water. Dry in 
a towel. 

TO STONE RAISINS. 

Pour boiling water over them, rub between the 
fingers until the seeds push out. 



TO PREPARE CANNED VEGETABLES. 267 

TO PREPARE LETTUCE. 

Break off all the defective leaves and use these for 
the inside of the salad, reserving the whole leaves 
for decorating and serving the salad on. Break off 
each leaf with the hands, wash carefully and lay in 
very cold water till needed. When ready to use 
take each leaf up separately, shake gently, dry be- 
tween two towels and serve in a bowl. Never cut 
it apart with a knife. 

TO PREPARE CUCUMBERS. 

Choose the small, green and white ones, with no 
yellow, and have them firm to the touch. Take off 
a thick paring, slice thin and lay in cold water for 
an hour. Just before serving, drain and serve on 
ice. 

TO PREPARE CELERY. 

Select the tender, white stalks, remove the green 
part and lay aside for stews or soup. Wash thor- 
oughly and lay in cold water for several hours before 
using. Do not clean it until it is crisp. You may 
serve each stalk separate, or a few stalks on one root. 



QUESTIONS ON COURSE A. 



LESSON I. 

1. What is air composed of? 

2. What is fuel composed of? 

3. When oxygen combines with 

fuel what is the result ? 

4. Why must we have the draughts 

open when starting a fire ? 

5 . When can we close them ? 

6. What does the blue flame show ? 

7. How do you fix a fire to leave 

for several hours ? 

8. When do you blacken the stove ? 

9. When do you polish the stove ? 

LESSON II. 

1. Why do we need food? 

2. How may food be classified ? 

3. What do nitrogeneous foods 
supply ? 

4. What do carbonaceous foods 
supply ? 

5. Of what use is water as food ? 

6. What minerals are found in 
the body ? 

7. What is albumen, and where 
found in egg, meat, flour, 
milk, peas and beans ? 

8. What is water composed of? 
9 What is boiling ? 

10. What eff"ect does boiling have 
upon water ? 

11. What effect has cold water on 
starch ? 

12. What effect has hot water on 
starch ? 

13. What effect has cold water on 
albumen ? 

14. What effect has hot water on 
albumen ? 

LESSON III. 

1 . What is the difference between 

boiling and simmering? 

2. What effect has long continued 

slow cooking on the fibres of 
meat ? 



3. Where ought the nutriment to 

be in soup ? 

4. What effect has cold water on 

meat ? 

5. What effect has hot water on 

meat ? 

6. What kind of food is best sim- 

mered ? 

7. What cuts are best for soup ? 

LESSON IV. 

1. How many ways are there of 
steaming ? 

2. What is a double boiler ? 

3. How can you make one ? 

4. At what temperature must the 
water be kept in the under 
pan ? 

5. In steaming, why must you 
keep the cover on tight ? 

6. What effect will cold air have 
on a steamed pudding or bread ? 

7. How do you steam grains? 

8. What is the third way of cook- 
ing meat in water ? 

9. Why do you fry the meats for 
stews ? 

10. What cuts are best for stews ? 
II What is baking-powder made 
of? 

12. What chemical change takes 
place when baking-powder is 
used ? 

13. What does carbonic acid gas 
do to food ? 

LESSON V. 

1. What kind of fire do you need 
for roasting ? 

2. Why do you not put water in 
the pan for roasting ? 

3. What does salt do to the juices 
of meat ? 

4. What does the intense heat do 
to the meat ? 

5. Where do you want the juices 
of the meat in roasts ? 



268 



QUESTIONS ON LESSONS. 



269 



6. What cuts are best for roasts ? 

7. What are the principal causes 
of decomposition of food ? 

8. What ought you to do with 
meat or fish as soon as they 
come from the market ? 

9. Why do you not salt meat or 
fish until just before using ? 

10. How often ought you to look 
over the perishable food ? 

11, What can you do with spotted 
fruit ? 

LESSON VI. 

1. What is broiling ? 

2. Do you need tough or tender 
meat to broil ? 

3. How often do you turn it while 
hrjiling? 

4. What is pan broiling ? 

5. What is digestion? 

6. Where does the system draw 
from for all its needs ? 

7. Where does the first part of 
digestion take place ? 

8. Where does the second part of 
digestion take place? 

g. Where does the third part of 
digestion take place ? 

10. How many digestive juices are 
there ? 

1 1 . Where is saliva found ? 

12. On what food does it act ? 

13. Where is gastric juice found? 

14. On what does it act ? 

15. Where are the bile and pancre 
atic juices found ? 

16. On what do they act ? 

£7. Where is the intestinal juice 

found ? 
18. On what does it act? 

LESSON VII. 

1. What is frying ? 

2. How do you use cottolene? 

3. How do you prepare lar 1 ? 

4. How do you prepare beef drip- 
ping ? 

5. What is the test of fat for fry- 
ing? 



2. 

3- 

4- 

5. 

6. 

7- 

8. 
9- 

10. 
II. 

12. 

I. 
2. 

3- 
4. 



What do you drain all fried 

food on? 

When the blood enters the 

lungs what does it meet there 

that burns up the impurities ? 

How is the waste of the system 

thrown off .'' 

What do we throw off at every 

breath ? 

Is carbonic acid gas poisonous ? 

LESSON VIII. 

What grain makes the most 
perfect bread ? 
What is yeast ? 

What does it need in order to 
grow ? 

What is the effect of hot liquid 
added to yeast ? 
What is the first change in the 
flour after the yeast begins to 
grow ? 

What is the sugar changed in- 
to ? 

If the alcoholic fermentation is 
not checked what acid will be 
formed ? 

What gas do we obtain by 
using yeast ? 

As the bread is baked what 
takes place in the yeast ? the 
starch ? the alcohol ? 
Why do we knead the bread 
after rising ? 

What temperature should the 
bread be kept in during the 
first rising ? During the sec- 
ond rising ? 

How can you make the crust 
crisp or soft ? 

LESSON IX. 

How are starchy foods best 

prepared for an invalid ? 

In what form is it best to give 

fat? 

What is needed for the lungs ? 

What does the oxygen do to 

the impurities in the blood ? 

What are the best protieds for 

the sick ? 



2/0 



THE YOUNG COOK S GUIDE. 



6. When is toast digestible ? 

7. What are nutritious foods ? 

8. Why should food be cooked by 
the best rules ? 

9. How should food be served ? 

10. When does digestion begin ? 

11. How should the sick room, the 
nurse and the patient be kept ? 

12. What foods should be avoided ? 

13. Why do you not boil tea? 

LESSON X. 

I. How many motions are there 

used to mix food ? 

.2. When do you " stir " food ? 

3. When do you *' beat " food ? 

4. When do you '' fold " food ? 

5. What raises an omelet ? 

6. What raises a cake? 



7. How often should the refriger- 
ator be washed out? 

8. In what part of the refrigerator' 
should milk and butter be 
kept in ? Meat ? Fish ' 

9. How can you keep lemons and 
cranberries ? 

10. How do you prepare drip- 
pings ? 

11. How do you scrape dishes ? 

12. What kind of water do you 
use to wash them ? 

13. When do you dry them ? 

14. What do you do with greasy 
pans ? 

15. How do you wash dover egg 
beaters? 

16. How do you wash a tea pot? 

17. How do you wash the sink ? 



QUESTIONS ON COURSE B. 



LESSON I. 

1. How can you tell that fish is 

fresh ? 

2. What ought to be done to meat 

or fish as soon as they come 
from the market ? 

3. Which is the richer fish, bluefish 

or cod ? And why ? 

4. What kind of an oven do we 

need for baking ? 

5. Should meat and fish be placed 

in a very hot oven ? 

6. Why should no water be put in 

the pan at first ? 

7. What is basting ? 

8. Why do we use lemon or sauces 

with fish ? 



LESSON II. 

1. How can you teil good poultry ? 

2. Why do we put meat for boiling 

into hot water ? 

3. What effect has rapid boiling 

on the fibres of meat ? 

4. What effect has simmering on 

the fibres of meat ? 

5. Why do we use soda with mo- 

lasses ? 



6. Why should we not move a cake 

while it is rising ? 

7. What will cause a cake to fall 

while baking? 

8. Should a cake be left in the pan 

after baking ? And why not ? 

9. What is the best thing to do 

with a loaf cake just baked ? 

LESSON III. 

1. What effect has hot water on 

yeast, and why ? 

2. What is the cause of bread or 

rolls turning sour ? 

3. What is best to cover them 

with while rising ? 

4. How hot should the oven be 

for rolls ? 

5. Give the order in which you 

make white sauce ? 

6. Why is it best not to pare ap- 

ples till ready to use them ? 

LESSON IV. 

1. What are oysters composed of ? 

2. Are they economical or expen- 

sive food ? 

3. How should they be cooked to 

be digested ? 



QUESTIONS ON LESSONS. 



271 



4. Why is it best to heat milk in 

a double boiler ? 

5. At what temperature does albu- 

men coagulate ? 

6. Why do you not pour eggs into 

hot milk for custard ? 

7. How can you bring a custard 

back that has curdled ? 



LESSON V. 



I. 



Why do we beat air into an ome- 
let ? 

Is albumen digestible when over 
done ? 

How are doughs raised ? 

Why should they be cooked as 
soon as wet ? 

Why must you never take the 
cover off while steaming a pud- 
ding or bread ? 

6. What kind of water do you add 

as it boils away ? 

7. How do you clean currants? 

8. " " " stone raisins ? 

9. What kind of suet do you need 

for suet pudding ? 

LESSON VI. 

1. How do you clean a chicken? 

2. What must you be careful not 
to break ? 

3. How do you skewer a chicken 
for roasting ? 

4. What do you put on it before 
putting in the oven ? 

5. What can you use if you have 
no chicken fat ? 

6. What is requisite for a good 
salad ? 

7. In what order do you mix a 
cake containing butter ? 

8. What is beating? 
" stirring? 

' " folding? 
1 1 . Why do you beat a cake ? 

LESSON VII. 

I. What are the proportions of ice 
and salt used for freezing ? 



9- 
10. 



10. 

I. 
2. 
3. 
4. 



Should the crank be turned fast 

or slow to produce a smooth, 

fine cream ? 
Should all the ice water be kept 

drained off all the time ? 
Is it best to beat sponge cake 

much or little, and why ? 
What effect has heat upon air ? 
What effect would stirring have 

after beating? 

LESSON VIII. 

. Give the courses in their order 

for a luncheon. 
. Where do you put the flowers ? 
. How do you lay the knives, 

forks and spoons ? 
. Where do you place the tumb- 
lers, butter plates, salt and 

pepper? 
, Where do you put the napkins ? 
. How do you place the chairs? 
, On which side of the person 

serving should the waitress 

stand ? 
. On which side do you pass the 

dishes to each person ? 
. How do you remove a plate 

with a knife and fork on it ? 

What do you remove before 

brushing off the crumbs ? 

LESSON IX. 

What do you need to make good 

pastry ? 
What kind of an oven to bake 

it? 
Should the pastry be very cold 

when placed in the oven ? 
Where should the heat be the 

greater, under or on top of the 

pie? 
What is best to mix it with ? 
How do you roll it out and why ? 
Do you grease the pan or not ? 
What is the test of fat for frying 

oysters ? 



LESSON X. 

I. What is the process of making 



mayonnaise ? 



2/2 



THE YOUNG COOK S GUIDE. 



2. Why does it ever curdle ? 

3. What is a sure way to bring it 

back? 
4 When should you mix mayon- 
naise with the salad, and why? 



5. How do you make sandwiches ? 

6. Do you ever boil gelatine, and 

why not ? 

7. How do you make soft custard? 



^ 



QUESTIONS ON COURSE C. 



LESSON I. 

1. How do you boil a lobster? 

2. How long after boiling must a 

lobster be used ? 

3. What is the reason that cro- 

quettes break ? 

4. How shouid food to be fried be 

prepared ? 

5. Whv should the egg entirely 

coat the fried food ? 

6. What is the test of fat for cro- 

quettes ? 

7. How do you add whipped cream 

to melted gelatine ? 

8. Why do you cook the flour and 

the butter in thick soups ? 

LESSON n. 

1. Why do you not boil milk after 

adding salmon, lobster, as- 
paragus ' 

2. What is meant by flaking fish ? 

3. How do you make delicious, 

light, mashed potatoes ? 

4. What is a puree ? 

LESSON in. 

1. How do you prepare fillets of 

fish? 

2. How do you boil spinach and 

why ? 

3. How do you add oil to sauces ? 

4. How much water do you add to 

one egg for breading and why ? 

5. Do you beat or stir waffles just 

before cooking and why ? 

6. What do you grease a wafile 

iron with ? 

LESSON IV. 

I. How can you use stale bread ? 



2. What are the tests of fat to fry 

bread cases ? Apple fritters ? 

3. What do yon add to fritter bat- 

ter for fruit ? For fish ? 

4. What do you drain all fried 

food on and why ? 

5. How can you warm up bits of 

cold ham, veal, chicken, fish? 

LESSON V. 

1. Should veal be well cooked or 

rare ? 

2. What meats are best served rare ? 

3. How do you cook spaghetti? 

4. How do you cook flour and but- 

ter and why ? 

5. In adding hot liquid to sauces 

should you stir or not and 
why ? 

6. How can you decorate with 

icing or meringue ? 

LESSON VI. 

1. Do omelets require an intense 

heat or not ? 

2. How should they be put to- 

gether ? 

3. How should they be put in the 

pan : 

4. How soon cooked after beating? 

5. What kind of a fire for baking 

a loaf cake ? 

6. What part of the oven do you 

put it in at first ? 

7. When is it likely to fall? 

8. When is it safe to move it ? 

g. When can you tell that it is 
done ? 

LESSON VII. 

I, What kind of crumbs are best 
for croquettes ? 



QUESTIONS ON LESSONS. 



273 



2. What kind for covering made 

up dishes? 

3. What proportion of butter to I 

c. crumbs. 

4. How do you put it on them ? 

5. Should crumbs be seasoned and 

what with ? 

6. How do you make cafe parfait ? 

7. Should maccaroons be stale or 

fresh for baskets ? 

LESSON YIII. 

1. How do you clarify soup ? 

2. Why does the albumen clear it ? 

3. How do you use a cutlet mold? 

4. What are scalloped dishes and 

what can they be made of? 

5. Give the order of courses for a 

dinner ? 

6. What is an entree? 

7. What are the proportions for 

cafe noir? 

8. When should salad be mixed? 

LESSON LX. 

1. How can you serve fruit? 

2, Out of what can you make bas- 

kets? 



3. WHiat are the principal points 

to be observed in making good 
pastry? 

4. How many layers on the edge 

of tarts ? 

5. How long do you bake a mer- 

ingue and in what kind of an 
oven ? 

LESSON X. 

1. What are sweetbreads ? 

2. Where found ? 

3. How do you prepare them be- 
fore using ? 

4* How long may they be kept ? 

5. What do you cut them with? 

6. What is larding ? 

7. What kind of meats do we 
lard ? 

S, What kind of pork used ? 
9. What does souffle mean ? 

10. How should a souffle be put 
into the dish ? 

11. In what kind of an oven ? 

12. When can you tell that it is 
done ? 



INDEX. 



Introduction. 
Courses 

" A... 

" B... 

" C... 



PAGE 
. • 13 

. . 17 



Mottoes. 19 

" course A 19 



B. 
C 



21 

23 

How to use this book 25 

Abbreviations 26 

Table of measures and weights. 26 

Time-table for cooking 27 

Fire 29 

" making and care of 30 

Food 32 

" nitrogeneous 33 

' ' carbonaceous 33 

Fats and oils 35 

DIGESTION. 

Digestion 36 

Saliva 36 

■Gastric juice 37 

Bile . . 37 

Pancreatic 37 

Intestinal . . 38 

Nutritious foods 39 

Innutritions 39 

Daily requirement of food ... 40 



PAGE 

Sauteing. ... 50 

Larding 51 

Stirring, beating, folding.. . . 51 

Bread crumbing 52 

Boning 53 

Care of food 56 



SOUPS. 



Soup. 



64 

" clam. 73 

" cream of asparagus 71 

*' left over 68 

' ' macaroni 68 

' ' mock bisque 70 

" oyster 72 

" picked up 236 

' ' potato 69 

" stock 64 

'' white stock 65 

" split pea 69 

" tomato 69 

' • to clarify 66 

" velvet 72 

" vegetable 68 

Puree of salmon 74 

Bisque of lobster 74 

Consomme 70 

Bouillon 71 

Julienne 71 



COOKING. 

Cooking 42 

Boiling 42 

" water" * • • 42 

'* meats 43 

" vegetables 44 

' ' grains 44 

Simmering 44 

Steaming 44 

Roasting 45 

Broiling 46 

" pan 47 

Braising 48 

Frying 48 

" to prepare fat for 49 

" test of fat for. . . ..... 50 

275 



FISH. 

Fish 76 

" baked 77 

" stuffing for 78 

" boiled 78 

" balls 79 

' ' creamed salt 80 

" fried 78 

" " cod 79 

' ' au gratin 80 

<' " " No. 2 81 

" picked up salt cod So 

' ' scalloped So 

" turbans of 81 

" with oysters . . . . 82 



2/6 



THE YOUNG COOK'S GUIDE. 



PAGE 

Fish, to clean a 77 

Blanquette of salmon 81 

Warmed up " * • 236 

SHELL FISH. 

Salmon timbales . . . , 83 

Oysters 84 

" balls 82 

broiled . . . 85 

" creamed 85 

" fricasseed 85 

" Huitre a la Dauphine . 86 

" little pigs in blankets. . 86 

'* scalloped 85 

" to prepare. 84 

' * raw 84 

LOBSTER. 

Lobster 86 

to boil 86 

" creamed 87 

'* cutlets 88 

" croquettes 88 

" deviled 87 

'* to open 87 

'* to select 86 

' * sauce 115 

" salad 163 

CRABS AND SCALLOPS. 

Crabs 88 

" to boil 89 

•* soft shell 89 

" deviled 89 

" broiled. 89 

Scallops 88 



MEAT. 



Meat . 



90 

* ' pressed 237 

Beef 90 

'* a la mode 94 

*' corned 93 

*' '* hash 237 

" No. 2 238 

" No. 3 238 

" balls 237 

" " croquettes 237 

" fillet of, larded 93 

" frizzled , 94 

*' dumplings .. 93 



PAGE 

Beef, braised 228 

'■ stew with dumplings. ... 92 

" roast 91 

" " gravy for 91 

pot 229 

" raw, sandwiches 256 

*' sliced, with tomato rauce..239 

" steak 92 

" " Hamburgh 92 

" to choose go 

" hash 236 

Yorkshire pudding 91 

Drippings. . 228 

MUTTON AND LAMB. 

Mutton and lamb 96 

" boiled 96 

■' gravy 97 

' ' chops 97 

" '* pan broiled 97 

*' " en papilote. . . . gS 

" " with tomato 

sauce 239^ 

Mutton scalloped gg 

" rechauffe 100 

' ' roast g6 

' ' to choose g6 

Lamb chops g7 

" breaded with stuff- 
ed tomatoes g7 

" boned leg . gg 

" crown of g8 

Minced meat on toast gg 

Scotch broth 100 

Cottage pie gg 

VEAL AND PORK. 

Veal . . loi 

'• roast -.101 

' ' cutlets loi 

' ' scalloped 238 

" scalloped, a la provencale.ioi 

Casserole of mock sweetbreads. 102 

Roast pig 102 

" " stuffing for 103 

Pork 102 

*' roast 103 

" and beans 103 

" tenderloin ...103 

' ' chops 103 



INDEX. 



277 



Poultry 



PAGE 

Ham, boiled 104 

' ' and eggs I04 

" toast 228 

*' creamed 1^4 

Liver and bacon I05 

To try out lard 105 

POULTRY AND GAME. 

106 

to truss and dress 106 

" to choose 106 

Chicken roast I07 

" stuffing for 108 

" giblet gravy ■ 

boiled 108 

broiled • 108 

' ' fricassee 109 

" " gravy for. . 109 

casserole of rice and. . 109 

" creamed no 

" Hollandaise no 

' • with mushrooms no 

picked up 239 

" saute no 

scalloped, ham and.. .239 

To clean giblets 107 

Panned chicken 229 

Roast turkey 108 

Scalloped turkey 240 

Roast duck ni 

Ill 

Ill 



* goose. . . 
Larded grouse 

Bread sauce for larded grouse.. 112 
Quail 112 

MEAT AND FISH SAUCES. 

Sauces ^^3 

•* brown n3 

." '* mushroom 114 

" " piquante 114 

" bechamel n6 

• " cream nS 

" " for croquettes 169 

" caper ii4 

currant jelly, for mutton. 1 14 

' ' drawn butter n4 

" egg 1^4 

Hollandaise n6 

'• lobster n5 

'' Maitre d'Hotel n? 



PAGE 

Sauce, par.sley n4 

shrimp n4 

tomato No. i nS 

'* 2 ns 

tartar n6 

' ' mayonnaise 117 

romoulade n7 

white n3 

SWEETBREADS. 

Sweetbreads * n^ 

broiled ng 

" and bacon 119 

*' creamed n8 

" in cases nS 

'* casserole of mock.. 102 

" larded 119 

" to prepare n8 

VEGETABLES. 

Vegetables 120 

" a la jardiniere 1 30 

" boiled 44 

" green 125 

hash 237 

to prepare canned.. 268 

Asparagus 126 

Beans, string 125 

" lima 128 

Beets 126 

Brussels sprouts in cream 129 

Cabbage 126 

" a la creme 127 

Cauliflower, boiled .127 

" au gralin 127 

" border of 127 

Corn on the cob 128 

Egg plant, fried I39 

Peas 125 

Spinach ^25 

" a la creme 125 

Turnips ^23 

" scalloped 124 

Tomatoes, raw ... 128 

" stewed 129 

" scalloped I2g 

" stuffed I2g 

Onions, boiled 123 

Succotash 128 

Macaroni ^Si 

" and cheese I3i 



oyster 114 Spaghetti 



132 



13 



278 



THE YOUNG COOK'S GUIDE. 



PAGE 

Celery, stewed 230 

Mushrooms 130 

" stewed 131 

" baked 130 

POTATOES. 

Potatoes 120 

*' boiled 120 

" " sweet 123 

" a Irf Maitre d'Hotel. .,123 

" balls 121 

" '* in cream 122 

" baked 120 

" cakes 121 

" creamed 121 

*' escaloped sweet 121 

'* Franconia 122 

" fried. 122 

" '• No. 2 122 

" Lyonnaise 122 

'* mashed 120 

" rice 121 

" sauted 122 

** sweet, fried 123 

*' " warmed up. . . 240 

GRAINS. 

Grains 133 

Oatmeal 133 

*' breakfast cakes 241 

' ' gruel 249 

*' " No. 2 ...250 

" mush 251 

" porridge 252 

Hominy ... 133 

'* breakfast cakes 241 

" griddle " 136 

" fried 134 

'* pudding 241 

Cracked wheat 134 

Buckwheat cakes 136 

Rice 134 

apples and 244 

boiled 134 

' ' with milk 254 

balls 240 

breakfast cakes 241 

custard 263 

" 179 

croquettes 171 



PAGE 

Rice and cheese. ' 241 

'* fritters 241 

" flour-milk 254 

" griddle cakes 136 

*• jellied • 264 

** pudding, creamed • • 179 

" steamed 134 

GRIDDLE CAKES AND WAFFLES. 

Batters 135 

Griddle cakes 136 

*■ " rice 136 

" " hominy. ... . . .136 

" " buckwheat 136 

Pancakes 136 

Hominy breakfast cakes 241 

Oatmeal " *' 241 

Waffles 137 

*' syrup for 193 

yeast 137 

BREAD. 

Bread 138 

'* baking 140 

" made with water 141 

" " milk 142 

" " " potatoes 142 

" graham 142 

" corn 149 

ROLLS, MUFFINS, GEMS. 



Rolls 143 

*' crescent 143 

" Parker House 144 

' ' Swedish 144 

" twin 143 

*' White Mountain 144 

'* twists 145 

Gems 148 

" egg 149 

' ' graham 150 

Biscuits 147 

•' baking-powder. ....... 147 

" drop. 148 

Muffins 151 

*• breakfast 150 

" quick 150 

" yeast 151 

'* corn meal 149 



INDEX. 



279 



PAGE 

Sally lunn 151 

•• '• yeast 152 

Bunns 145 

* ' currant 145 

•* raisin 146 

EGGS. 

Eggs 153 

'• baked 154 

•' soft boiled 153 

" hard 153 

*• creamed... 157 

" dropped 153 

*' for breakfast 159 

** poached 158 

" Italian 242 

" scrambled 154 

♦' stuffed 156 

" Spanish 157 

" in tomato 158 

'* ** dressed patty cases. . . .158 

" salad 164 

" with cheese 1 58 

Omelet, plain 154 

" No. 2 155 

No. 3 155 

*' creamy 155 

" orange 156 

" ham 155 

" souffle 156 

*• sweet 231 

Birds' nest 157 

Welsh Rarebit 

SALADS AND SANDWICHES. 

Salads 160 

" chicken 162 

" egg 164 

* ' lettuce 162 

*' lobster . 163 

" Marguerite 164 

* ' tomato ... 164 

" " baskets 164 

' ' sweetbread 164 

" vegetable 163 

" potato 162 

Dressing, French .161 

" boiled 161 

" Mayonnaise 160 

»• " tartar. 162 



PAGE 

Sandwiches 166 

celery 166 

cheese 167 

French 167 

salad. 166 

ham and chicken. ..167 
ginger 167 

CROQUETTES. 

Croquettes 168 

*• thick cream sauce for. 169 

" chicken 169 

" codfish .170 

" lobster 170 

♦' *' cutlets 170 

" potato 171 

" rice . . 171 

" corned beef 171 

" salmon 170 

' * sweetbread 171 

FRITTERS. 

Fritters I73 

•* batter 173 

" apple 174 

" clam 173 

" corn 173 

** game 173 

'* oyster 173 

" orange I74 

PUDDINGS AND DESSERTS. 

Puddings 175 

'* apple and rice 244 

" " bread and butter. 244 

" baked huckleberry. ...182 

•♦ boiled " ....182 

" bread, French 179 

" " lemon 177 

" " and currant . . . 243 

" cabinet 184 

'* chocolate 181 

*' cottage 181 

* ' cream cornstarch. ... 262 

*' '• rice. 179 

'* mock plum 185 

'* suet, plain 183 

*• " fruit 183 

*' ** ginger 183 



280 



THE YOUNG COOK S GUIDE. 



PAGE 

Pudding, sponge 182 

*' snow 186 

" Swedish 184 

'* Yorkshire 91 

Custards 175 

'* apple 177 

" baked 176 

" cream meringue 232 

" chocolate 177 

176 

*' fruit 176 

' * orange 176 

*' rice 179 

" tapioca 178 

*• timbales. ... 178 

'* soft or boiled 175 

* * sponge cake in 245 

Snow balls 185 

•* " apple 184 

Fried cake 246 

Cake fritters 246 

Apple scalloped 180 

" meringue 180 

'* scalloped 180 

' ' compote 180 

" snow 191 

" atalanta 219 

Floating island 175 

Orange Charlotte 1S6 

JELLIES, CREAMS. AND BLANC ' 
MANGE. 

Jelly, apples in 191 

" lemon 190 

" orange 191 

Bavarian cream 188 

" " chocolate 189 

** '* orange 189 

*' " strawberry 190 

Mousse, chocolate 188 

" fruit ,187 

Apple and meringue 245 

" " cream 245 

*' snow 191 

Raspberry trifle 204 

Jellied *' 204 

Chantilly basket 204 

Orange charlotte 186 

*' filled with jelly 187 

" baskets 187 



PAGE 

Blanc mange 190 

'* farina 264 

" *' arrowroot 262 

" *' tapioca 263 

" " banana 246 

Sponge, strawberry 230 

" raspberry 230 

Lemon snow. .231 

Chestnuts and cream 232 

Whipped cream 234 

Caramel 191 

PUDDING SAUCES. 

Sauces for puddings 192 

" caramel 193 

*' custard 194 

" chocolate 193 

" creamy 192 

" foamy, 192 

" fruit 193 

" hard 192 

*' *' with fruit 194 

" lemon 192 

" orange 193 

Lemon syrup for waffles 193 

CAKE. 

Cake 195 

" baking 195 

" currant 198 

" cup 199 

'' cocoanut layer 200 

' ' chocolate " 200 

'* raisin " 200 

" " *' No. 2 200 

" nut " 199 

" *' layer. 199 

" orange layer 200 

" " filling 200 

" cream " 201 

' ' lady 202 

* ' layer 199 

" lunch 198 

" " currant and raisin. 198 

" " currant 198 

" fried 246 

" fritters 246 

'* sponge 202 

" " No, 2 202 

" strawberry shortcake. . . .203 
' * raspberry " 203 



INDEX. 



281 



PAGE 

Cake, peach shortcake 202 

*' molasses fruit 201 

Gingerbread IQO 

'• soft molasses IQ? 

Ginger snaps ^97 

Soft molasses cookies 190 

Doughnuts 190 

•' New England. . . . I97 

Boiled Icing 203 

Ornamental Frosting 203 

Chantilly Basket 203 

PASTRY AND PIES. 



Pastry 

Pie Apple 

'* cherry ■ . • 
" huckleberry 
" lemon meringue 



pumpkin . . . 
plain mince, 



205 

206 

,207 

.207 

.207 

filling for. .207 

207 

208 

205 



^'±r'' .;• :;;:::2o8 stewed prunes 



Tarts 

• ' cranberry 

" lemon meringue 
•' peach a la Italian 

Patties 

" Dresden cases , 

Dumplings, Apple 



209 
.208 

209 
.208 
.227 
.209 



ICE CREAMS AND SHERBETS. 

Freezing 210 

Cream to mold 211 

Ice cream and sherbet 210 

vanilla 212 

<' chocolate 212 

coffee 212 

" banana 212 

. .212 

213 

213 

213 

. . .214 
213 



PAGE 

Sherbet 215 

'* orange 215 

" lemon 216 

" " gii'iger 216 

: ' strawberry 216 

" raspberry 216 

'• grape 217 

Pineapple Ice 216 

Cafe parfait 217 

FRUIT. 

Apple and cream 245 

" " meringue 245 

" scalloped 180 

** snow 191 

*' compote 180 

•' baked 218 

" sauce 218 

'♦ Atalanta 219 

" for luncheon 219 

Raspberry trifle 204 

Compote of pears 245 

, 220 

cranberries 220 

fruit 220 

218 

221 

218 

218 

220 

222 

, . .221 

232 

'* pears 233 

Ambrosia 232 

Orange compote 234 

To prepare an orange 265 

Grated pineapple 222 



Fruit 



baskets . 
to serve. 



" meringue. . 
Raspberry snow . 

Berry cases 

Stuffed apples . . 



" lemon .... . . 

" apricot. . . . 

" bisque. . . 

•• strawberry . 

«' Philadelphia 

♦' peach 

* ' caramel 214 

♦ ' Delmonico 214 

*' tutti frutti 215 

Frozen apricots 217 

" fruits, see apricots. . . .217 



custard 2i5lOrangeade. 



BEVERAGES. 

Beverages 223 

Coffee 223 

" boiled 223 

" filtered 223 

" cafe noir 224 

Tea 224 

Chocolate 224 

Cocoa 224 

Lemonade 225 

225 



282 



THE YOUNG COOK'S GUIDE. 



SUNDRIES. PAGE 

Sundries 226 

Bread crumbs 226 

'* " buttered 226 

' ' sauted 227 

Cracker crumbs , 226 

" toasted 227 

' * and cheese .227 

Croutons 227 

Dresden patty cases 227 

Toasted bread cases 228 

Ham toast 228 

Clam chowder 73 

Fried smelts 79 

Boiled fish 78 

Drippings 228 

Braised beef 22 

Pot roast * * 229 

Panned chicken 229 

Stewed celery 230 

Raisin and rice pudding 230 

Lemon snow 231 

Caramel igi 

Strawberry sponge 231 

Raspberry " 231 

Sweet omelet 231 

Custard cream meringue 232 

Chestnuts and cream 232 

Stuffed apples 233 

" pears 233 

Ambrosia 233 

Salted almonds 234 

" peanuts 234 

Orange compote 234 

Whipped cream 234 

Jellied trifle 235 

Welsh rarebit. 235 

Company 264 

To prepare canned vegetables .266 

To stone raisins 266 

To clean currants 266 

" prepare lettuce 267 

" '* cucumbers 267 

*' " celery 267 

Questions on lessons 268 

ODDS AND ENDS. 

Odds and ends ,236 

Picked-up soup .... 236 

Warmed-up salmon 236 

Plain hash 236 



PAGE 

Vegetable hash 237 

Corned beef balls 237 

Pressed meat 237 

Corned beef hash 237 

" " No. 2 238 

'* ' " " No. 3 238 

Scalloped veal 238 

Sliced beef with tomato sauce.. 239 

Picked-up chicken 239 

Cold chops with tomato sauce.. 239 
Scalloped ham and chicken. ...239 

" turkey 240 

Warmed-up sweet potatoes . . 240 

Rice balls 240 

" and cheese 241 

*' fritters 241 

Hominy pudding . . 241 

'* breakfast cakes .... 241 

Oatmeal " '* 241 

Rice " " 241 

Tomato and rice 243 

Italian eggs 242 

Cornstarch pudding 242 

Bread and currant pudding. . . .243 
Apple and rice " . . 244 

" " bread and butter 

pudding 244 

" ** meringue 245 

'* " cream 245 

Compote of pears 245 

Sponge cake in custard 245 

Fried cake ■ . . . 246 

Cake fritters 246 

Banana blanc mange 246 

INVALID COOKING. 

Invalid cooking 247 

How to care for the sick 248 

Oatmeal gruel 249 

•' No. 2 . .250 

Farina " 250 

Barley " 250 

Arrowroot" 250 

Cracker " 251 

Oatmeal mush 251 

Hominy " 251 

Panada -251 

* No. 2 251 

Oatmeal porridge 252 

Milk *' 252 



INDEX. 



283 



PAGE 

Oyster tea 252 

" " No. 2 252 

Pan broiled oysters 252 

Creamed " 253 

Roasted " 253 

Clam broth 253 

" sauce on toast . 254 

Boiled rice with milk 254 

Rice-flour milk 254 

Biscuits and " 254 

Softened biscuits 254 

Toast 255 

*' water 255 

" milk 255 

" " No. 2 255 

" custard 255 

Raw beef sandwiches .256 

Toasted crackers .256 

Crackers and marmalade . .256 
Beef tea 257 



PAGE 

Beef Tea bottled 257 

" juice 257 

'* broth 257 

Mutton " 258 

Chicken broth 258 

" custard 259 

Beef tea *' 259 

Farina " 258 

Tapioca cream 259 

Orange ' * 260 

Cream cornstarch pudding. . . .260 

Arrowroot blanc-mange 260 

Tapioca " '• 261 

Rice custard 261 

Farina blanc-mange 262 

Jellied rice 262 

Currant ice 263 

Frozen beef tea 263 

Jelly and ice 263 

To prepare an orange ... ... .263 



ADDITIONAL RECIPES. 




PET OF THE HOUSEHOLD. 



4^ THE &REAT A^EDICIMAL FOOD 




PURE, DEMLICIOO 
NOURISHING 




forNURSINQ mothers, infants and 




FOR DvsPEPTic, DELICATE, Infirm AND 

A.GEID PERSONS 
AN UNRIVAL-UEID ROOD IN THE 



SQhb rinnr^iciT*; j^k. *^hipping depot 

The writer has a child that is as strong an argument for the use of 
Imperial Granum as any mother could wish, and we therefore speak 
from experience when we say that it is both safe and nutritious, and 
it is the testimony of thousands of mothers who have brought 
up their children on Imperial. Granum that this preparation is 
successful where many others fail.— T Tie Christian Union. 
Bold by Druggists. Shipping Depot, JOHN OAELB & SONS, New York. 




mxxxxJM 




PILLSBURY'S FLOUR 

MAKES 

More Bread, 

Better Bread, 

Whiter Bread, 

THAN ANY OTHER FLOUR. 



Daily Product of the Pillsbury Mills, 

17,500 BARRELS. 



SOIiD -^ B7 ^ AZiIi -^ GROCEB>S. 




IT MAY BE YOU ARE USING A POORLY OOiNT- 
STRUOTED RANGE. 

Look into the Merits of the 

PERFECT RANGE. 

Always on time and pleases the cooks. 

Fitted with the celebrated Wrought Iron Adjustable 
Ventilated French Pastry and roasting ovens. Ten 
years in advance of any range in the market. Corres- 
pondence solicited . 

4> 

RICHARDSON & BOYNTON CO., 

232 and 234 Water St., New York. 



WALTER BAKER & CO.'S 



BREAKFAST COCOA 



Professor James F. Babcock, the well-known chemical 
expert, for many years State Assay er for Massachusetts, re- 
cently purchased in open market a sample of Walter Baker 
& Co.'s Breakfast Cocoa, and, after making a careful 
analysis, filed the following certificate : — 

Boston, January 20, 1892. 

'I'^HIS certifies that I have made a very thorough chemical and microsopic ex. 
■I amination of the article known as Walter Baker & Co.'s Breakfast 
Cocoa, and I have compared the results with those found from a similar ex- 
amination of the pure roasted cocoa-bean. 

I find that Walter Baker & Co.'s Breakfast Cocoa is absolvtely pure. 
It contains no trace of any substance foreign to the pure roasted cocoa-beau. 
The color is that of pure cocoa. The flavor is natural, and not artificial ; and 
the product is in every particular such as must have been produced from the 
pure cocoa-bean without the addition of any chemical, alkali, acid, or artificial 
flavoring substance which are to be detected in cocoas prepared by the so-called 
" Dutch process." 

[Signed] JAMES F. BABCOCK. 



Ask your Grocer for it. Allow no Substitution. 



WALTER BAKER & CO., - DORCHESTER, MASS. 



Indispensable to good housekeeping.— ^mma P. Eicing. 




m 
M 



C U:.r',V::E;::3 




(Size 14J^ inches long by IJ^ inches wide.) 

This Isnife is in a class by itself. 

Nothing: approaches it in point of efficacy, durability and simplicity. 

It is indispensable to good housekeeping. 

From tip to tip it is solid steel of finest quality, beautifully finished and plated. 

It is not a machine, but a knife. 

Sharpened exactly like any other knife on a whetstone or steel. 

Cuts thick or thin slices, hot or cold. 

Shall we send you one at our expense of express or mail, for seventy-five cents ? 

Yon can return it the same way and get your money if you don't want it. 

THERE ARE IMITATIONS. 



CHRISTY KNIFE CO., 
Fremont, Ohio. 



OUR HEW STORE, 

FlalU k., FulloB aal M&s Us, 

BROOKLYN. 



-^♦'^- 



The Largest Furniture and 
Carpet House in the City. 

i^»»" ■ 

Stocked with a fall and complete assort- 
ment of Everyfhinf/ for Ilousekeejnng. 



LOW PRICES. RELIABLE GOODS. 



ONLY 10 PER CENT. CASH DOWN. 

50c. weekly or $2.00 monthly on 130 00. 
75c. weekly or $3.00 monthly on $50.00. 
$1.00 weekly or $4.00 monthly on $65.00. 
$1.25 weekly or $5.00 monthly on $80.00. 
$1.50 weekly or $6.00 monthly on $100.00. 
Larger amounts on terms to suit purchaser's con- 
venience. 

■^•'^' ■ 

COWPERTHWAIT CO., 

Flatbush Ave., Fulton and Nevins Sts., 

BROOKLYN. 










r^-ii^fJ^^i-vW*:- 



^ 






i""-^/ 










-^v. 



.,.#) -^y 








' 




