.F858 
Copy 1 



rriE^jE: 



Procressive Cook Book 



T X 

715 



n (— o 



LIBRARY OF CONGRESS. 

<^ 

(3§nti...:-r,@Bpi;rigy:|n. 

Shelf •£S,5?) 

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA. 



ENTERPRISING BUSINESS MEN. 



''' UCH lOVELY 





ICH (REAM," 



is every housewife s vei^dict MpoJi trying 
her first can of 

HI6HLANB 

EVAP0RATED 

GREAM . 

7 

An ideal form of Rich Milk for Table, Nursery and 
Cooking Use. 

IT NEVER SPOILS. 



WRITE FOR OUR COOK BOOK AND [NFANTS' FOOD 
CIRCULAR. MAILED FREE. 



tiiatiLAND, ILL. 



PROGRESSIVE COOK BOOK. 



"W 



E ARE STRICTLY IN IT." 



Do you know that we are selling more and a better 

quality of goods for less money, than any other 

similar establishment in this State ? 

IF YOU ARE NOT AWARE OF THIS FACT 

it is time that you are looking to your own hiterests 

a7id try our goods a?id prices. We handle 

everything hi the line of 



A FINE LINE OF 

CROCKERY, LAMPS, 

BAR AND HOUSE GLASSWARE, 

and every other article you may think of 
usually foiuid in a 




O>\PLErE(_jR0GERY gTeRE 



WRITE OR CALL ON US FOR PRICES. 



CASH GROCERY HOUSE, 

BILLINGS, MONTANA. 



ENTERPRISING BUSINESS MEN. 



i 






BILLINGS, MONTANA. 



i IB GO 

HELENA, MONTANA. 

Sustain the following Complete Courses : 




{Benn Fitmafi.) 



HOME IN PRIVATE FAMILIES FOUND FOR STUDENTS. 



Students who complete a course of study, and practice in either 
of these Schools, are capable of performing any of the 
duties of business life. None but the Best 
teachers employed. Terms reason- 
able. Send for catalogue 
of Information. 
Address 



E. O. RAILSBACK, 



Principal. 



PROGRESSIVE COOK BOOK. 




CAPITAL, ^50,000. 

Regular Banking in all its Branches. Interest Allowed on Time Deposits. 
Safe Deposit Boxes Rented. 

DIRECTORS: E. G. Bailey, President. A. L. Babcock, Vice-President, G. A. 
Griggs, Cashier, David Pratt. L. H. Fenske, C. M. Bair. 



BUY A MEAL TICKET 



-A-T TiaiE! 




•xxTHEixsE -2-o-cr a-ET 



s^A#seaARE#ynEALN 



•%*^ ^~y fks.«». 



TIIVIKS KVKRY DAY. 

MRS. S. VANWAGNEN. 



EPWORT 
ORGAN 



I for homes and 
chapels. No 
ag'ts. Shipped 
from f act ry at 
special prirei. 
Being Metho- 
dists, we prefer that 
I orders be sent through 
our ministers, who 
I may hold price until 
ins°trumei its arrive in 
good order and ai« 
found as represented. Catalogues free if name and ad- 
dress of minister is stated. 

WILLIAMS UUGAN CO., OentervUle, lowfb 



ENTERPRISING BUSINESS MEN. 



W *E>M171D,*M>M.^ 



Harmony, Counterpoint, Theory, Piano, Organ, Flute, Violin, 

Guitar, Etc. 

P. O. BOX 194, BILLINGS, MONTANA. 



O. K. QODDARD, 

Attorn KY At La^w, 

FIRST NATIONAL BANK BUILDINO, 

BIIvLINQS, IVLONTANA. 
BILLINGS, MONTANA, 

LADIES' FURNISHINGS AND H0SIERY. 

ACENT FOR BUTTERICK'S PATTERNS. Near Grand Hotel. 



PHO TOGRAPHER. . 

Crayon Artist. Enlarger of Photographs. 

JAMES E. FREE, M. D., 
BILLINGS, 

MONTANA. 



PROGRESSIVE COOK BOOK. 



HEADQUARTERS FOR 

REFRIGERATORS, FREEZERS, GASOLINE STOVES. 




^^^-^v. 

'%:•, 



^sa^e^SSS,/ 



^^S' 






«^r 



^^ 



'/g- 



^ 



«». 



-^ 



^Oa 



^^ 



* ^ ^ ^ >^ 






EPWORTH LEAGUE. 



CHAPTER NO. 7707, 



BIIvLINOS, IMONTANA. 




AT 6:30 O'CIvOCK. 



^ ^ ^ 



KVKRYBODY ^.WELCONIE. 



PROGRESSIVE COOK BOOK. 



n , ^T^ rp) ,ft\, if\ ^ TTt (Pt, o TFTry-n C* ^ N. 



^Jj "SlJ •Sja- ^ 'E^ -^ 





ANNEr SUNDAY .'SCHOOL (LASS 




BII^LINQS, A/IONT. 






*^WEEKLY#MEEriNQS,#SAraRDAY#EVENlNG.K 



ALICE LLOYD FREE, Teacher. 



Bertha Crowe. 
Jennie Kimball. 
Hattie Babcock. 
Love Crampton. 
Lulu Browning. 
Martha Hetland. 
Etha Peck. 
Maggie Peck. 
Alice Holland. 
Marguerite Jones. 
Rena Stanley. 
Elvie Crist. 



* ^ 



Ella Mii,ls. 
Mary Kent. 
Jepse Van Wagnen. 

C. M. HOLLEY. 

Antone Hanson. 
Chas. W. Goodall. 
Chauncey Dodge. 
G. W. Kimball. 
L B. St. John. 
Willis E. Gibson. 
H. P. Ede, Violin. 
VV. Allen, Cornet. 



FIRST METHODIST EPISCOPAL CHURCH. ix 



iBimiBC 



BILLINGS, MONTANA. 

Paster in (Charge, Re¥. G. (L. STROLL. 
^ ^ ^ * ^ * 

Time Table: 

Preaching Every Sunday, lo:^^ A. M., y:^^ P. M. 

Sunday School, 12 d clock. 

Class Meeting, Sunday, after Evening Service. 

Prayer Meeting, Thursday Evening. 

Epworth League, Sunday, 6:jo P. M. 

* ^ ^ ^ ^ * 

CHURCH AND PARSONAGE 
29TH STREET, NORTH. 



YOU ARE CORDIALLY WELCONIED. 




First Methodist Episcopal Church, 

BILLINGS, MONTANA. 



T"H K 



Pbogbessive Cook Book, 



EDITED BY 

/ 

AIvICK IvLOYD KREE, 

FOR THE 

FIRST M. E. CHURCH, 



OF 



x7 



y BILLINGS, MONTANA. 



Keep only thy digestion clear ; 
No other foe my love doth fear. 



Alark Tivain. 



When dinner has oppressed one, 

I think it is perhaps the gloomiest hoiir 

Which turns up out of the sad twenty four. 



Byron. 



WAVERLY, N. Y. : 

WAVERLY FREE PRESS. 
1893. 



r ^ rs^rV 






'r 



■*«DCBIGAriON> 



A square meal has overthrown empires. — Exodus 16 : 13, 14. 

Ham has done wonders. — Psalm 106 : 22. 

Bread may cause trouble. — Isaiah 4 : 1. 

Therefore it is no vain thing that is placed on the altar of 
friendship, when I dedicate to my Sunday School class " The 
Progressive Cook Book." 

ALICE LLOYD FREE. 



^^PRErACE.^> 



A LirrLE BEFOREHAND. 

The ordinary man is all right to vote, or to sharpen a lead 
pencil, but when he is weighed in the cook's balances, the 
verdict is, "guilty of murder in the first degree." Adam, pei' se, 
may have raised his eyebrows at Eve's perception of his humor- 
ous remarks in the Hebrew tongue. Yea, he may have sworn 
at her needlecraft, but the poor, miserable sinner was like the rest 
of us pan-handle brigadiers, an appalling failure with the rolling 
ladle and the soup pin. 

Man has never been caught in the act of putting on his wife's 
apron and stealing softly down the back stairs at the cock of 
dawn. Peradventure he may steal a little about 7:30 A. M., and 
even exploit the kitchen fire. Then he threatens to rupture his 
bronchusses by shouting in a sliding scale, 

" SA Y, are you ever going to get UP THERE? " 

There are stirring times ahead of the American man ; regular 
Frances Willard times ; I might almost say egg beating, pie bak- 
ing, cake cutting, bread kneading times. 

The average Montanian is satisfied with his wife's cooking. 
He would be willing to take her to the World's Fair and ex- 
pect to get a premium, and that is the spine of the mackerel 
for him. 

To aid the women of the Yellowstone Valley to maintain their 
superiority, this book has been organized. Some of the things 
in it are fearfully and wonderfully made. Uolurabus might have 
gotten some points out of this book if he had been born in the 
right time of the moon. 

The editor tells me she is sorry that her work is not more 
worthy of a place in her sisters' hearts. Her ulterior motive is 
to pay the debt which is hanging like a buzzard over the M. E. 



PROGRESSIVE COOK BOOK. 



church of this city. Debts get attached to places, and as Ruth 
said to Naomi, they seem to say, " Entreat me not to leave thee, 
or to return from following after thee." 

Profits above five hundred dollars are to go to the editor. Glory 
will do, however, as well as money. The editor is grateful to her 
friends in Billings and vicinity (and the vicinity, in this case, has 
the big head) for their assistance. Whatever these friends hide in 
their hearts from these pages, it is hoped will be innocuous and 
good to eat. 

The pseudonym of this book is intended as a compliment to 
the editor's Sunday School class. May their shadows grow as 
they eat of the fruit of The Progressive Cook Book. 

J. E. FREE, M. D. 



must or GONTRiBaroRS.Ni- 



Mrs 


H. M. Allen. 


Mrs. 


J. A. Johnston. 


" 


W. A. Allen. 


Miss 


Jennie Kimball. 


" 


R. T. Allen. 


Mrs. 


Lovett. 


Lillian S. Allen. 


" 


E. H. Lee. 


Mks. 


Earth. 


" 


Gib. a. Lane. 


" 


L. M. BlRELY. 


(1 


W. F. Leroy. 


" 


Walker Browning. 


II 


F. S. Mills. 


" 


W. E. Barker. 


•' 


Paul McCormick. 


" 


R. K. Babcock. 


" 


S. R. Miller. 


Miss 


Hattie Babcock. 


(I 


Fred. Mashaw. 


" 


Lulu Browning. 


■ 


Frank McCormick. 


II 


Maggie Boykin. 


" 


J. F. Melcher. 


Mrs. 


Andrew Campbell. 


Miss 


Ella Mills. 


" 


W. B. Chrysler. 


ii 


Ruth Mills. 


" 


C. M. ClIILDS. 


" 


Mattie Murphy. 


" 


F. B. CONOLLY. 


Mrs. 


I. D. O'Donnell. 


" 


H. F. Clement. 


- 


VV. 0. Parker. 


" 


M. J. Crampton. 


Miss 


Maggie Peck. 


a 


D. Clark. 


Mrs. 


H. W. Rowley. 


" 


H. D. Claflin. 


" 


H. T. Ramsey. 


" 


George Comfort. 


'• 


G. C. Stull. 


" 


R. R. Crowe. 


" 


J. F. Sleeper. 


Miss 


Bertha Crowe. 


" 


F. R. St. John. 


" 


Love Crampton. 


i< 


C. H. Sabin. 


Jim Chinaman. 


" 


Charles Spear. 


Mrs 


Love Dill. 


II 


Fred Sweetman. 


" 


W. H. Donovan. 


" 


G. W. Shoemaker. 


" 


James Eccles. 


" 


S. R. Salsbury. 


11 


J. W. Fish. 


" 


Rachel Stephenson. 


" 


U. B. Frizelle. 


" 


M. F. Sleeper. 


" 


J. E. Free. 


Miss 


Martha Shoemaker. 


" 


L F. Fields. 


" 


Rena Stanley. 


" 


Philip M. Gallaher. 


Mrs. 


Henry Terrell. 


" 


J. R. Goss. 


" 


B. W. Toole. 


" 


0. F. Goddard. 


II 


Silas VanWagnen. 


II 


R. T. Hanna. 


" 


J. W. Vaughn. 


" 


Alpiionse Hirsch. 


i( 


Wells. 


" 


E. S. Holmes. 


" 


H. G. Williams. 


i> 


E. M. Hungerford. 


u 


B. Woods. 


Miss 


Alice Holland. 


11 


A. J. Wilkinson. 


" 


Martha Hetland. 


Miss 


Lydia Williams. 



;^1NDEX> 



Beverages, - - - - - - - 87 

Bread, ....... 31 

Cake — Layer, - - - - - - -56 

" Loaf, ...... 63 

Chinese, - - - - - - -49 

Confectionery, ...... 82 

Cookies, Crullers, Doughnuts, Etc., - - - - 70 

Custards, Sauces, Creams, - - - - 46 

Eggs, -------- 29 

Fish, ....... 10 

Frozen Desserts, - - - - - - 85 

Fruit, .-...-.74 
Meats, - - - - - - -15 

Miscellaneous, ------ 88 

Oysters, - - - - - - -13 

Pickles, -.-.-.-77 
Pies, -..-.--. 50 
Poultry and Game, - - - - - 21 

Puddings, - - - - - - -40 

Salads, -------37 

Soup, -------.7 

Vegetables, --_... 24 



Entered according to Act of Congress, the 10th day of May, 1893, by 

ALICE LLOYD FREE, 

In the OfQce of the Librarian of Congress, at Washington, D. C. 



THE 

PROGRESSIVE COOK BOOK. 



^soap.Nf> 



CONSOMME. 
Mrs. Rorer's Cook Book. 
Four pounds beef, one ounce suet, one small onion, three quarts 
water, four cloves, one small carrot, a piece of celery, white of one 
egg. Put the suet and onion, sliced, into soup kettle, and cook till 
brown ; then add meat and cook thirty rainute.s ; add the cold 
water, cover the kettle and simmer for three hours ; then add 
cloves and carrot, and simmer one hour longer ; strain and stand 
away to cool. When cold, remove all grease from the surface ; 
turn the consomme into the kettle ; beat white of egg with half cup 
cold water ; add it to the boiling consomme and boil one minute. 
Strain through cheese cloth, season, and it is ready to serve. 

NOODLE SOUP. 
Mrs. Rachel Stephenson. 
Make a dough as for biscuit^; roll and cut into strips, and put 
into the soup. 

POTATO SOUP. 
Mrs. Wells. 
Peel and boil eight medium sized potatoes, with a large onion, 
sliced, some herbs, salt and pepper ; press all through a eolander ; 
then thin with rich milk; add a lump of butter, and more season- 
ing if necessary. Let it heat well, and serve hot. 

NOODLE SOUP. 

Mrs. J. E. Free. 
Boil meat in water. Take two eggs, a half egg-shell cold water, 
a little salt; mix stiff with flour and roll as thin as possible; dry 
by the fire and cut into fine strips; put them in with meat and boil 
half an hour. 



PROGRESSIVE COOK BOOK. 



MOCK BISQUE SOUP. 

Mns. J. W. Fish. 
One quart can of tomatoes pressed through a colander, three 
pints milk, large table-spoon flour, butter size of an egg, pepper 
and salt to taste, a scant half tea-spoon soda. Put tomatoes on to 
stew, and the milk in a double kettle to boil ; reserve half cup 
milk to mix flour smooth, and stir it into the boihng milk; cook 
ten minutes. To the tomatoes add the soda; to the milk add the 
butter, salt and pepper; then the tomatoes. Serve immediately. 

CA BBAO E SOUP. 
Mrs. Kachel Stephenson. 
Boil meat till tender; then take a little cabbage, cut it fine and 
put in ; then take flour and rub one egg into it until moist, and 
drop into soup last. Season to taste. 

CREAM OF POTATO SOUP. 
From "Highland Brand Booklet." 
Pare and boil four large potatoes. Hoat one-half can Highland 
Brand evaporated cream and one and one-half pints hot water in 
a double boiler, with a slice of onion, one bay leaf, one stalk cel- 
ery, and sprig of parsley. Rub smoothly together one table- 
spoon butter and two of flour, and stir into the cream while boil- 
ing, until it thickens. When the potatoes are done, drain free 
of all water, sprinkle with salt and stand back a moment to dry; 
then mash until light and free from lumps. Add the cream grad- 
ually to the potatoes, and press the whole through a sieve. Sea- 
son with salt and pepper and it is ready to serve. 

TOM A TO SOUP. 
Mrs. Paul McCofmick. 
One can of tomatoes, one can of water; boil for a little while, 
then rub through a sieve and return to kettle. Take one egg and 
a table-spoon cream and stir in just enough floor so that when it 
is dropped in it will come up in liltle strings, like noodles. Just 
before serving, season well with Worcestershire sauce. 

GREEN PEA SOUP. 
Atwood & Steele, Chicago. 
Cover a quart of green peas, or one can, with hot water; boil 
with an onion until they can be easily mashed. Cook together 
two table-spoons butter and one of flour until smooth, but not 
brown; add to the mashed peas; then add a cup of cream and 
one pint of milk; season with salt and pepper, and boil up once! 
Strain and serve. A cup of whipped cream added at the last is 
an improvement. 



SOUP. 9 

BEEF SOUP. 
Miss Martha Hetland. 
Select a small shin of beef of moderate size ; crack the bone 
into small pieces; wash and place in kettle to boil with five or 
six quarts of cold water. Boil until it begins to get tender, then 
season with salt and pepper ; boil it one hour longer ; add to it 
one carrot, two turnips, two table-spoons rice or pearl barley, one 
bunch celery, a table-spoon summer savory, powdered fine. The 
vegetables are to be cut into small pieces. After these ingredients 
have boiled fifteen minutes, put in two potatoes cut fine. Cook 
half an hour longer and serve hot. Garnish with sprigs of parsley. 

TOMATO SOUP. 
Mrs. H. W. Rowlbt. 
Scald one can tomatoes ; add one-half tea-spoon soda ; let stand 
a minute, then skim off the top ; add to this three pints boiling 
milk, and season with butter, pepper and salt. Pour through a col- 
ander and serve. 



10 PROGRESSIVE COOK BOOK. 



^^risH.N> 



SALAD FOR FISH. 
Mrs. Fred Sweetman. 
Three eggs beaten well; add two tea-spoons of black pepper, 
two of salt, and one of mustard, three table-spoons of melted but- 
ter, six ounces of cream and one coffee cup of vinegar. Cook 
in a custard until thick as cream. Set away to cool; then pour 
it over the fish. This salad is fine for salmon. 

BROILED MACKEREL. 

Miss Bertha Crowe. 
Wash and wipe the fish well; grease gridiron and place the 
fish on it and broil well over hot coals, until both sides are well 
browned; then remove to a hot platter; butter it slightly; salt 
and pepper and serve quickly. 

SCALLOPED SALMON. 

Mrs. Paul McCormick. 
Take a can of salmon, and pick out the bones, and put in 
butter and a little cream; heat it on the stove, then put in a 
baking-dish layers of bread crumbs and fish with salt and pep- 
per, and enough cream to moisten. Bake slowly half an hour. 

FRIED FISH ROES. 

Miss Martha Shoemaker. 

Wash the roes and cook them ten minutes in boiling salted 

water, with one table-spoon of vinegar; then plunge them into 

cold water. Drain and roll in beaten egg, then in seasoned 

crumbs. Fry in hot fat till brown. 

BAKED FISH. 

Miss Martha Shoemaker. 

Clean, wipe and dry the fish, stuflf and sew; cut gashes two 
inches apart on each side. Rub all over with soft butter, salt 
and pepper ; put narrow strips of fat salt pork in the gashes, 
dredge well with flour. You want about one pound of pork; 
put what is left of strips, around the pan. 

Dressing for the Fish. — One cup cracker crumbs, one salt- 
spoon each of salt and pepper, one tea-spoon each of chopped 
onion and parsley; one tea-spoon each of capers and pickles, 
one-fourth cup of melted butter. , 



FISH. 11 

CREAMED WHITE FISH. 
Fkom "The Ladies' Home Journal." 
Boil the fish fifteen or twenty minutes, and take out the bones. 
Season with pepper and salt and a few drips of lemon juice. 
To each pint of this add a sauoe made from four table-spoons of 
butter, two of flour, a speck of Cayenne pepper, and a pint of 
rich milk, in which a tiny bit of onion has been boiled. Mix 
the sauce with the fish gently, taking care that the flakes are 
not broken. Place in a baking dish, sprinkle with buttered 
crumbs, and bake from twenty to thirty minutes in a hot oven. 

LOBSTER CUTLETS. 
From " The Ladies' Home Journal." 
Mince the meat of the lobsters fine; season with salt and spice. 
Melt a piece of butter in a sauce-pan ; mix with it one table- 
spoon fiour ; add the lobster and a little finely chopped parsley ; 
add a little stock also, and let it come to a boil ; remove from 
the fire and stir into it the yolks of two eggs; spread the mix- 
ture in a shallow pan and when cold cut into cutlet shape, dip 
carefully in beaten egg, then in cracker crumbs, and fry to a 
rich brown color in hot lard. 

CODFISH BALLS. 
Mrs. H. G. Williams. 
Cut the codfish in pieces when it has been duly washed and 
soaked, and boil twenty minutes. Turn off water, and cover 
with fresh from the boiling tea-kettle; boil twenty minutes 
more ; drain very dry, and spread it upon a dish to cool. When 
perfectly cold, pick to pieces with a fork, removing every ves- 
tige of skin and bone, and shred very fine. When this is done, 
add an equal bulk of mashed potato ; work into a stiff batter 
by adding a lump of butter and sweet milk, and if you want to 
have them very nice, a beaten egg. Flour your hands and make 
the mixture into balls or cakes. Drop them into boiling lard or 
good dripping, and fry to a light brown. 

SALMON SALAD. 
Mrs. C. M. Childs. 
One-half head of cabbage, one-half can of salmon, yolks of 
two eggs, half cup of sugar, one tea-cup vinegar, French mustard. 
Beat the mustard, egg, and vinegar and let it come to a boil. 
Pour this over cabbage and salmon. Garnish top with hard- 
boiled eggs cut into slices. 



12 PROGRESSIVE COOK BOOK. 

SCALLOP ED CODFISH. 

Mrs. Paul McCormick. 

Soak the codfish well and pick into bits, then put layers of 

codfish and sliced raw potatoes, and on the top lumps of butter; 

then pour over it cream or milk, to come almost to the top ; 

bake about an hour, or little longer. It wants to be well cooked. 

FISH CROQUETTES. 

Atwood & Steele, Chicago. 

Two small, or one large white fish. Boil, bone, and chop ; 
add little salt, red pepper and onion. Make gravy of water the 
fish is boiled in; add milk, butter and flour; stir in the fish; 
shape into croquettes, roll in egg^ then cracker crumbs and fry 
in hot lard. Garnish with parsley. 

Tartare Dressing. — Take yolk of one raw egg, beat, add a 
little salt, red pepper, mustard, and mix well. Add salad oil un- 
til thick and let it stand on ice until needed ; then add the juice 
of two lemons (or half a cup of vinegar), one table-spoon of ca- 
pers, six small cucumber pickles chopped fine, and a very little 
onion. Serve cold with hot croquettes. 

LOBSTER SALAD. 
Mrs. W. Browning. 
Take a can of lobster, skim ofif all the oil from the surface and 
chop the meat coarsely on a flat dish. Prepare the same way, 
six heads of celery ; mix a tea-spoon of mustard into a smooth 
paste with a little vinegar; add two yolks of fresh eggs, a table- 
spoon of butter creamed, a small tea-spoon of salt, same of pep- 
per, a quarter tea-spoon Cayenne pepper, gill of vinegar, and 
the mashed yolks of two hard-boiled eggs. Mix a small portion 
of the dressing with the celery and fish, then turn remainder 
over all. Garnish with the green tops of celery and a hard- 
boileci" egg cut into thin rings. 



OYSTERS. 13 



OYSTERS.^ 



OYSTER SALAD. 

Mrs. Paul McCormick. 
One can oysters, three eggs, four table-spoons vinegar, one tea- 
spoon mustard; pepper and salt to taste. Boil the eggs hard, 
take out two of the yolks and mash with vinegar, salt, pepper 
and mustard. Chop the rest of the eggs and lay around the 
oysters and pour on a little broth. 

SMOTHERED OYSTERS. 
Miss Martha Shoemaker. 
One table-spoon butter in a covered sauce-pan, with a half 
salt-spoon while pepper, one level tea-spoon salt, and a speck 
Cayenne pepper; when hot, add one pint oysters. Cover closely 
and shake the pan to keep from sticking, cooking two or three 
minutes. Serve on toasted crackers. 

FRIED OYSTERS. 

Mrs. W. B. Chrysler. 
Drain liquor from the oysters. Beat two eggs, or as many as 
required for oysters. Roll crackers fine, season with salt and 
pepper; dip oysters into cracker crumbs first, then into beaten 
egg, then back into cracker crumbs. Fry in hot lard as you 
would doughnuts. 

CREAMED OYSTERS. 
Mrs. J. W. Fish. 
Measure oysters, and to each quart use one-half pint rich 
cream; heat oysters and cream in separate kettles, oysters in 
their own liquor, which, after they come to a boil, skim through 
and take out into another dish; then pour cream and liquid to- 
gether; season highly with butter, pepper and salt, thicken with 
fine powdered crackers until like thin batter. Stir oysters in, 
and when boiling hot, serve. 

SCALLOPED OYSTERS. 

Mrs. R. T. Allen. 
A layer rolled crackers in a buttered pudding dish, then a 
layer of oysters with seasoning of butter, pepper and salr. Re- 
peat until the dish is full, with bread crumbs on top. Pour on 
the liquor mixed with a little milk. Cover and bake one hour; 
remove cover and brown before sending to the table. 



14 PROGRESSIVE COOK BOOK. 

PANNED OYSTERS. 

Mrs. J. E. Free. 

Drain the liquor from the oysters; melt in a kettle one-fourth 

pound butter; put in a little of the liquor, salt and pepper. 

When hot, put in the oysters and cook until the edges begin to 

ourl. Pour into a hot dish on buttered toast. 

OYSTER STEW. 

Mrs. E. S. Holmes. 
Put your milk, with a little water in it, on the stove to heat • 
put into it butter and a little salt. Put in the oysters, but do 
not let them boil. 



MEATS. 15 



<^meats>> 



HOW TO COOK HUSBANDS SO AS TO MAKE 
THEM TENDER AND GOOD. 
Atwood & Steele, Chicago. 
A good many husbands are spoiled in the cooking. Some 
women go about it as if their husbands were bladders and blow 
them up; others keep them constantly in hot water; others let 
them freeze by their carelessness and indifference. Some keep 
them in a stew by irritating ways and words; others roast them. 
Some keep them in a pickle all their lives. It cannot be sup- 
posed that any husband will be tender and good, managed in 
sthis way, but they are really delicious when properly treated . 
In selecting your husband you should not be guided by the sil- 
very appearance, as in buying mackerel, nor by the golden tint, 
as if you wanted salmon. Be sure to select him yourself, as 
tastes differ. Do not go to market for him, as the best are al- 
ways brought to your door. It is always best to have none un- 
less you will patiently learn how to cook him. A preserving 
kettle of finest porcelain is best, but if you have nothing better 
than an earthenvvare pipkin, it will do, with care. See that the 
linen you wrap him in is nicely washed and mended, with the 
required number of buttons and strings nicely sewed on. Tie 
him in the kettle by a strong silk cord called Comfort, as the one 
called Duty is apt to be weak. They are apt to fiy out of the 
kettle and be burned and crusty on the edges, since, like crabs and 
lobsters, you have to cook thera alive. Make a clear, steady fire 
out of love, neatness and cheerfulness. Set him as near this as 
seems to agree with him. If he 'sputters and frizzes, do not be 
anxious; some husbands do this until they are quite done. Add a 
little sugar in the form of what confectioners call kisses, but no 
vinegar or pepper on any account. A little spice improves them, 
hut it must be used with judgment. Do not stick any sharp 
instruments into him to see if he is becoming tender. Stir him 
gently; watch the while lest he lie too fiat and close to the kettle 
and so become useless. You cannot fail to know when he is done. 
If thus treated, you will find him very digestible, agreeing nicely 
with you and the children, and he will keep as long as you 
want, unless you become careless and set him in too cold a 
place. 



16 PROGRESSIVE COOK BOOK. 

BOILED MUTTON OR LAMB. 

Miss Maktha Shoemaker. 

Wipe mutton or lamb, remove the fat and put the meat into 
well salted boiling water; put the bone side up and boil ten 
minutes. Simmer twelve minutes for each pound of meat. Serve 
with thickened gravy. 

Gravy for Mutton. — To each pint of boiling water in which 
mutton was cooked, add one table-spoon of flour, moisten with 
a little cold water; one table-spoon vinegar, one-fourth salt-spoon 
pepper, one salt-spoon salt; boil five minutes, stirring till smooth; 
add two table-spoons fine chopped parsley or capers. 

SCRAPPLE. 
From "Parlor and Kitchen." 
Take equal parts of lean and fat pork, from the heart, tongue 
and portions of the head. Thoroughly clean them and boil till 
tender. When done, remove bones and thicken the water with 
corn-meal until it is of the consistency of mush. Let it boil a 
few minutes and season with salt, pepper and summer savory. 
Chop the meat and return it to the mush, add salt and pepper 
to the taste, let cook a few minutes more. Dish out and keep 
in a cool place. Cut in slices and fry brown in lard, as needed. 

BEEFSTEAK ROLLS. 

Mrs. J. A. Johnston, Emporium, Pa. 
Cut nice thin steaks and broil them slightly. Make a dress- 
ing as for roast turkey; roll the steaks, putting the dressing 
inside each roll; skewer or tie them neatly, lay them in a pan 
with a little water, spread over with butter, season with salt 
and pepper. Bake twenty minutes. 

VEAL OMELET. 

Mrs. Fred. Sweetman. 
Three pounds of veal chopped fine, six crackers rolled fine, 
three eggs beaten well, one-half nutmeg, one-halt cup melted 
butter, salt and pepper. Mix all well and pour butter over all. 
Cook one hour with a moderate fire. 

BEEFSTEAK PIE. 
Mrs. Alphonse Hirsch. 
Cut two pounds of beefsteaks into large pieces. Fry them 
quickly ; then place in a dish in two or three layers. Cut some 
onion and potatoes and put in the dish, strewing salt and pep- 
per between the layers. Pour over it one pint of strong broth. 
Cover with a good beef-suet paste and bake two or three hours. 



MEATS. 17 

TO CURE DRIED BEEF. 
Mrs. Ltdia Williams, Wrightsville, Pa. 
Take three rounds of beef, make a brine strong enough to 
bear an e^^; one pound brown sugar, one table-spoon saltpetre. 
Keep the meat in the brine three days, then wrap it in paper, 
and hang in the garret till ready for use ; then keep in the 
cellar. 

PICKLE FOR BEEF, PORK, MUTTON. 

Mrs. M. J. Crampton. 
To one gallon of water, add one and one-half pounds salt, 
one-half pound sugar, one-fourth ounce saltpetre, increasing the 
rates to any quantity desired. Boil these together until all the 
impurities have risen to the top and have been skimmed off. 
Pour the same into a tub, and when cold pour over the meat, 
covering it entirely with the mixture, taking care not to put 
down the meat for at least two days after killing. For dry- 
ing, take out the beef at the end of two weeks, dry and wrap 
in paper until used. 

PIG'S HEAD CHEESE. 
Mrs. R. R. Crowe. 
Boil a pig's head and four feet until the bones drop out. 
When still warm chop fine and season highly with pepper and 
salt. Return to a kettle with one tea-cup of the liquor to every 
quart of meat. Cook a few minutes, turn into deep dishes, set 
in a cool place and when cold cut into slices. 

BEEF HEART. 
From "Mrs. Owen'.s Cook Book." 
In the forenoon, put the heart into a weak brine. In the 
evening change to another brine, and next morning put it on to 
cook in boiling water; cook fully three hours. When tender, 
have ready a dressing of bread crumbs, mixed with melted but- 
ter, pepper and salt, and stuff the heart. Put it in an oven 
twenty minutes, to cook the dressing. Let it get cold and slice 
very thin. Season with pepper and salt. 

VEAL CUTLETS. 

Mrs. Wells. 

Take the cutlets and remove all the bones; then chop them, 

first on one side, then on the other. Then take two eggs and 

beat them well; dip the cutlets into the beaten eggs, then in 

cracker dust and fry in hut butter. Season with pepper and salt. 



18 PROGRESSIVE COOK BOOK. 

FRIZZLED BEEF. 
From "Highland Brand Booklet." 
Cut away all rind from as much meat as you wish to use; 
then shave with Icnife or meat sheer. Put a table-spoon of but- 
ter in a pan and when hot, scatter in beef; place over a quick 
fire and stir with a fork to prevent browning. As soon as it is 
cooked, which will be in a few minutes, dredge in a table-spoon 
of flour, and add sufficient Highland Brand evaporated cream to 
make the gravy the consistency desired, and stir until well mixed. 

VEAL POT- PIE. 
Mrs. D. Clark, Emporium, Pa. 
Stew your veal until soft and then cut it up. Make a rich pie 
paste; wash and pare some potatoes. Pat in your pan, a layer 
of meat, potatoes and dough, which has been rolled out and cut 
into pieces. Then spread plenty of butter on top of layer, also 
season with salt and pepper; then another layer until all meat 
and potatoes have been used. Cover the top with layer of 
dough, pour liquor over the whole and bake in oven ; baste 
often and do not let it get dry. 

KALE BROSE {SCOTCH). 
Mrs. Henry Terrell. 
Have an ox head or a cow heel, one tea-cup toasted oatmeal, 
salt to taste, two handfuls greens, three quarts water. Make a 
broth of the meat and boil it until the oil lioats on the liquor; 
then boil the greens and shred in it. Put the oatmeal with a 
little salt into a basin, and mix with it a tea- cup of fat broth. 
It should not run into one doughy mass, but form krtuts. ,Stir 
it into the whole and boil four hours. Serve very hot. 

TO FRY BEEFSTEAK. 
Mrs. J. E. Free. 
Have your pan hot before putting in meat. Do not grease your 
pan, but lay meat in and cover with a lid; turn meat almost 
constantly and when done spread with plenty of butter, salt 
and pepper. Then take meat out of the pan and lay it on a 
hot platter. Put a spoon of flour in the pan and stir till smooth; 
then pour hot water on and stir till smooth and as thick as you 
like it. Pour this over the meat and serve hot. 

BREAKFAST BACON. 

Mrs. Paul McCormick. 
Soak slices of pork in milk for fifteen minutes; then dip them 
into flour and fry; when done, slice some potatoes in the fat and 
fry. Serve in the centre of a hot dish, with a circle of the slices 
of pork around them. 



MEATS. 19 

FRIED LIVER. 
Mrs. Wklls. 
Slice liver half an irjch thick and put it into a dish; pour boil- 
ing water on it and let it stand till the water is almost cold ; 
then take out the liver and roil it in one beaten egg, then in 
flour. Have at same time a pan of hot grease, and fry the liver 
in it. If you like, garnish the dish with breakfast bacon. 

CORNED BEEF. 

Mrs. M. J. Crampton. 
First cover the meat tor twenty-four hours with brine strong 
enfcugh to float an egg. Take it out and wash it in cold water, 
then put it away in a second brine a little weaker than the 6rst, 
in which you have dissolved three pounds brown sugar and two 
ounces saltpetre to a hundred pounds of beef. Should a scum 
appear on the surface before the meat is used up, the brine must 
be scalded and skimmed, and poured back when quite cold. 
The package should be kept in a cool but not damp place, with 
the meat always covered with brine. 

ROAST SIRLOIN OF BEEF. 

Miss Maktha Shoemaker. 
Six or eight pounds from the tip or second cut of the sirloin, 
wipe, trim and tie into shape. Lay the meat on a rack in a pan 
and dredge with salt, pepper and flour. Put in a hot oven with 
two or three table-spoons of drippings or a piece of fat placed 
in the pan. Put the skin side down first, that the meat may 
harden the juices in the lean part. When the flour is brown and 
the meat is seared, baste with the fat and reduce the heat. 
Baste otten, dredge with salt and flour, and when seared all over, 
turn and bring the skin side up for the final basting and brown- 
ing. Bake fifty or sixty minutes if liked rare; if liked well done, 
one hour to one and one-half hours. 

BEEF OMELET. 

Mrs. Harry Ramsey. 
Uncooked round of beef chopped fine, two eggs, three soda 
crackers rolled fine, a little butter, suet, pepper, salt and sage. 
Make into a loaf, roll in crackers and bake. To be eaten cold. 

D EL MO NIC HASH. 

Miss Martua Shoemaker. 
Remove the fat and gristle from mutton, lamb or veal and chop 
fine. To one cup of meat add one salt-spoon salt, one cup 
thickened gravy; heat quickly in a sauce-pan and pour over each 
slice of toast, which is buttered. 



20 PROGRESSIVE COOK BOOK. 

STUFFED HAM. 

From "Cooking and HousEKEEriNG." 
One pound bread crumbs, five ounces butler, one tea-spoon 
each of cloves, allspice, nutmeg, ginger, mace, celery, salt, one- 
half tea-cup sugar, two large table-spoons mustard, six eggs well 
beaten, and one boiled ham. Mix the above ingredients and 
moisten with cream. G-ash the ham while hot, fill in with the 
dressing. Rub over it the white of an egg, sugar and grated 
crackers. Set in the oven to brown. 



POULTRY AND GAME. 21 



i«<POyLrRY AND GAME>- 



BRESSINO FOR POULTRY. 

Mus. M. J. Crampton. 
One quart milk, four eggs; make a batter as for fritters; then 
in the batter put a small onion, chopped fine; pepper, salt, and 
sage if liked. In your pan put lard, or butter, and when it is 
hot, pour in all the batter. Stir with a knife as you scramble 
eggs. It will brown lightly. 

FRICASSEED CHICKEN. 

Miss Martha Shoemaker. 
^ Singe and cut the chicken, at the joints, in pieces for serving. 
Cover with boiling water, add one heaping tea-spoon of salt and 
one salt-spoon of pepper. Simmer one hour or until tender, re- 
ducing the water to one pint; remove all large bones, dredge with 
salt, flour and pepper. Brown in hot water. Put the chicken 
on toast on a hot platter ; strain the liquor and remove the t'at, 
add to the liquor one cup of cream or milk, and heat again ; 
melt one large tea-spoon of butter in a sauce-pan, add two table- 
spoons of flour, and when well mixed, pour on the milk and 
chicken liquor; add salt, pepper, one-half tea-spoon celery salt, 
and if you like, one table-spoon lemon juice. Beat one egg, 
pour the sauce slowly on the egg, and stir well ; then pour over 
the chicken. 

MO C K DUCK. 
Mrs. Harry Ramsey. 
One pound of beaf steak ; salt and pepper either side ; pre- 
pare bread as for turkey dressing. Sew up and roast one hour. 

PRAIRIE CHICKENS STEAMED AND BAKED. 
From " Mrs Owen's Cook Book " 
Stuff them, after cleaning, with a dressing made of bread 
crumbs and seasoning of pepper and salt mixed with melted but- 
ter. Sage, onion or summer savory may be added if liked. 
Secure the fowl firmly with needle and twine. Steam in a 
steamer until tender, then remove to a dripping pan; dredge 
with flour, pepper and salt, and brown in the oven ; baste with 
melted butter; garnish with parsley and lumps of current jelly. 



*»■'- 



^ 



22 PROGRESSIVE COOK BOOK. 

CHICKEN PIE WITH OYSTERS. 
Fkom " Cooking and Housekeeping." 
Boil a good sized chicken until tender; drain the liquor from 
a quart of oysters; line the sides and bottom of a large, round 
pan, with crust; put in a layer of oysters, then of chicken, till 
the pan is full. Season with pepper, salt, bits of butter and the 
oyster liquor; add some of the chicken liquor, cover with a 
crust and bake. Serve with sliced lemon. 

CHICKEN CROQUETTES. 

Atwood & Steele, Chicago. 
One chicken, one set of sweet-breads, one-half pint milk, one 
table-spoon butter, two or three slices onion, two table-spoons 
flour. Boil the chicken and sweet-breads until quite tender, and 
when cold remove skin and chop together, very fine. Fry the 
slices of onion in a little butter until quite brown, and then 
pour over them a portion of the milk to extract the juice, and 
strain through a fine sieve into the meat. Put the rest of the 
milk and butter into a stew-pan. When they come to a boil 
add the meat, the two table-spoons flour, chopped parsley and 
salt and pepper to taste. Stir the mixture while thickening. 
When thickened, set aside to cool, and when cold mould into 
forms, dip into egg and cracker crumbs and drop into boiling 
lard. Garnish each form with a sprig of parsley and serve with 
or without sauce. Mushroom sauce is especially nice. 

CHICKEN SALAD. 
Mrs. O. F. Goddard. 
Two chickens, two bunches celery to each chicken, one-half 
pint vinegar, two eggs, one table-spoon each of salid oil, mixed 
mustard, sugar, and salt, one salt-spoon Cayenne pepper. Beat 
the eggs and vinegar together until quite thick; then beat the 
oil, mustard and Cayenne pepper together and stir into it. Add 
the celery just before using. 

WILD DUCKS ROASTED. 
Prom "Mrs. Owen's Cook Book." 
Prepare for roasting the same as any fowl. Parboil for fifteen 
minutes with an onion in the water, and the strong flavor that is 
sometimes disagreeable in wild ducks will have disappeared. 
StufiF with bread crumbs, a minced onion, season with salt, pep- 
per and sage, and roast till tender. Use butter plentifully in bast- 
ing. A half hour will suffice for young ducks. 



POULTRY AND GAME. 23 

ROAST TURKEY— OYSTER STUFFING. 

From " The Ladies' Home Journal." 
Select a young hen turkey, singe, draw, and clean thoroughly. 
Stuff with the following : Mince a dozen large oysters fine ; add 
to them two cups bread crumbs, and a table-spoon parsley, salt and 
pepper and moisten with table-spoon of butter. Put two slices 
bacon in a pan, and after rubbing the breast of the turkey well 
with butter, lay it upon the bacon ; roast in a hot oven, allow- 
ing from twelve to fifteen minutes to the pound. Baste frequent- 
ly. Garnish with parsley and serve on heated plater with giblet 
sauce. 

PRESSED CHICKEN. 

From "Cooking and Housekeeping." 
Boil chicken in a very little water. When done, take meat 
from the bones, remove the skin, chop and season. Press into a 
" large bowl. Add the liquor and put on a weight. When cold, 
cut into slices and eat with sliced lemon or cucumber pickle. 

ROAST DUCK WITH APPLES. 
Juliet Corson. 
Pluck and singe a duck, draw it, wipe with a wet towel and 
lay in a baking pan; wipe a dozen small sour apples with a wet 
cloth, cut the cores out and arrange around the duck. Put pan 
into the oven and quickly brown the duck ; then moderate the 
heat of the oven and continue cooking until the apples are ten- 
der; baste both every five minutes until done, then serve both 
on the same dish. 

POTATO STUFFING FOR POULTRY AND 
GAME. 
Miss Wistar. 
Two cups mashed potatoes, a tea-spoon onion juice, half a cup 
milk or cream, a table-spoon each of butter and chopped pars- 
ley; pepper, salt. Many like the yolk of egg, about two to the 
above. Mix and beat well. 



24 PROGRESSIVE COOK BOOK. 



•*<VEeErABLES> 



STUFFED POTATOES. 

Makian Harlakd. ' 

Take large potatoes and bake until soft; cut a round piece off 
the top of each ; scrape out the inside carefully, so as not to 
break the skin, and set aside the empty cases with covers. 
Mash the inside very smoothly, working into it while hot, some 
butter and cream — about half a tea-cup for each potato. Season 
with salt, pepper, a good pinch of cheese, grated, for each po- 
tato. Work it very soft with milk and put in a sauce-pan to 
heat. When scalding hot, stir in one well-beaten egg for six 
large potatoes, boil up once, fill the skins, replace the caps and 
return to the oven for three minutes. Eat hot. 

RICE AND CHEESE. 

Mrs. Philip M. Gallaher. 
Put a layer of rice, boiled in milk, in the bottom of a but- 
tered pudding-dish; grate upon it some rich, mild cheese and 
scatter over it some bits of butter. Spread upon the cheese more 
rice and fill the dish in this order, having rice at the top but- 
tered well without the cheese. Add a few spoons of cream and 
a little salt. Cover and bake half an hour, then brown nicely 
and serve. 

FRIED EGG-PLANT. 

From "Mrs. Owen's Cook Book." 
Pare and cut into slices half an mch thick. Sprinkle a little 
salt on each slice and press down for an hour; then rinse in 
clear water and dry well in a towel. Dip m egg and rolled 
crackers and fry a nice brown in hot butter or lard. Season 
more if required. 

POTATO PIE. 
Mrs. M. J. Crampton. 
Prepare mashed potatoes as for the table. Use any cold meat, 
stew, or fricassee of fish or poultry, removing all bones ; line 
the bottom and sides of a baking dish with the potato; put the 
meat within, highly seasoned ; cover it with potato. There 
should be sauce to moisten the meat. Brush the top with beaten 
egg. Brown the pie in the oven and serve hot in same dish in 
which it was baked. 



VEGETABLES. 25 



STEAMED RICE. 

Miss Martha Shoemakek. 
One cup rice, one-half tea-spoon salt, two cups boiling water 
or three cups milk. Pick over and wash the rice in three or 
four waters, put with milk and salt, in the upper part of the 
boiler. Steam for thirty minutes, or until soft. Serve as a des- 
sert with boiled custard or hard sauce. 

GREEN CORN PUDDING. 

Marian Harland. 
One quart milk, five eggs, two table-spoons white sugar, one 
dozen large ears of corn. Grate corn from the cob ; beat the 
eggs separately, put corn and yolks together, beat hard, add but- 
ter, then milk, sugar, and a little salt, last the whites. Bake 
slowly at first, covering the dish for an hour. Remove cover 
and brown. 

CREAMED SWEET-POTATOES. 

Mrs. Wells. 

Boil sweet-potatoes and when tender drain all the water oflf; 

then put on them enough milk to make gravy, thicken with 

flour, putting in a good sized piece of butter, two table-spoons 

sugar; salt and pepper to taste. 

BOSTON BAKED BEANS. 
Mrs. Fred. Masha-w. 
One quart beans washed thoroughly and put to soak over 
night. In the morning put them in a bean jar; salt to taste; 
one table-spoon dark molasses, one tea-spoon black pepper. Put 
in your salt pork and fill with water; put in the oven and keep 
filled with water. Bake in the oven a whole day, or longer. 

AUNT CORDELIA'S LEGACY. 
Mrs. J. R. Goss. 
One pint cold boiled macaroni, one pint stewed tomatoes, one 
pint finely chopped beef or mutton, one onion minced fine and 
fried in a tea-spoon of butter, one cup bread or cracker crumbs, 
one tea-spoon salt, one salt-spoon pepper. Butter a two quart 
pudding-dish ; put a layer of crumbs at the bottom, then a layer 
of minced meat, one of tomato and one of macaroni ; sprinkle 
each layer with seasoning. Alternate in this way until the dish 
is full. Put a small cup of boiling water to the fried onion, and 
after making a layer over the top with the rest of the crumbs, 
pour it over them. Dot with tiny bits of butter and bake an 
hour, or until well browned. 



26 PROGRESSIVE COOK BOOK. 

BAKED BEANS. 
From "Paklor and Kitchen." 
Prepare them as for boiling, and allow fifteen to twenty min- 
utes longer to bake them. 

POTATO CAKES. 

Mrs. J. E. Free. 
Take what mashed potatoes were left from dinner; beat two 
eggs and stir into the potatoes, also add a little milk, flour and 
salt to potatoes. Dip a table-spoon qf the potatoes, after they 
have been well mixed, into hot butter and fry like fritters. 

HOT SLAW. 

Miss Alice Holland. 
One-half head of cabbage cut fine, one table-spoon flour, one 
table-spoon sugar, one egg beaten ; vinegar, salt and pepper to 
taste. Fill a bowl three-fourths full of water, butter size of an 
egg. Put all together and cook until thick, then put in the 
cabbage and cook a little. Take off and serve hot. 

SARATOGA POTATOES. 

Mrs. W. H. Donovan 
Pare and cut into thin slices on a slaw-cutter, four large po- 
tatoes ; let stand in ice cold salt water till breakfast is ready. 
Take a handful of the potatoes, squeeze the water from them 
and dry in a napkin ; separate slices and drop a handful at a 
time into a pan of boiling lard, taking care that they do not 
strike together; stir with a fork until they are a light brown 
color; take out with a wire spoon; drain well and serve in an 
open dish. They are nice served cold. 

G LIS SENS. 
Mrs. Henrt Terrell. 
Six large potatoes grated and squeezed through a cloth ; grate 
three cold boiled potatoes, two eggs and a little salt ; roll into 
little balls like marbles. Put one quart milk on and let it boil ; 
drop the balls in, a few at a time, so they will not stick; cook 
five minutes. They are nice fried when cold. 

BAKED CRACKERS WITH CHEESE. 
Miss Martha Shoemaker. 
For about twelve Boston crackers, allow six table-spoons grated 
cheese, a level table-spoon salt, one-fourth salt-spoon pepper. 
Split the crackers and bake in the oven or toast on a toaster. 
Spread them with the cheese, return to oven and warm till 
cheese is melted. 



VEGETABLES. 



PARSNIP CHIPS. 

From "Parlor and Kitchen." 
Cut parsnips into thin slices with a potato cutter ; soak in cold 
salted water and dry between towels ; fry in hot butter, drain 
and salt. Stir with a fork till they are crisp. 

MACARONI PLAIN. 
Mrs. Wells. 
Take one-half pound macaroni and pour boiling water on it, 
and a handful salt; let bc^l tender; put in a colander to drain, 
then put in a dish ready for the table. Take two table-spoons 
butter ; let brown, then roll four crackers and let them brown in 
the butter. Turn this over the macaroni and serve hot. 

CHEESE TOAST. 

Mrs. G. W. Shoemaker. 
- Cook three ounces of fine cut clieese, one well-beaten egg, 
one spoon of butter and a half cup sweet milk. When smooth 
pour over nicely browned toast. 

BAKED ONIONS. 

Marian Harland. 
The large Spanish or Bermuda onions are the only kind usu- 
ally baked. Wash clean but do not remove skins ; boil an hour. 
The water should be boiling when they are put in, and slightly 
salted. Change water twice during this time. When done take 
onions out and lay them upon a cloth that all moisture may 
evaporate. Bake in an oven nearly an hour;' when tender 
through, peel and put in a deep dish; brown slightly, baste 
freely. Serve m a vegetable dish, and after you have sprinkled 
with salt and pepper, pour melted butter over ihem. 

BAKED SQUASH. 

Mrs. L. M. Birely. 
Cut the squash into pieces, scrape well and bake from one to two 
hours, according to thickness. To be eaten with salt and butter, 
jike sweet potatoes. 

FRIED CUCUMBERS. 
Mrs. L. M. Birblt. 
Pare and lay in ice-water half an hour. Cut lengthwise into 
slices nearly half an inch thick, and lay in ice-water ten minutes. 
Wipe each piece dry with a soft cloth, sprinkle with pepper and 
salt; dredge with flour. Fry to a delicate brown in nice lard 
or butter. 



28 PROGRESSIVE COOK BOOK. 

CREAMED ONIONS. 

From "Kitchen Companion." 

Boil half a dozen onions in three quarts of water for one 

hour ; pour eflf liquor and cut onions into small pieces. Season 

with salt and pepper; pour a pint of cream sauce over them 

Serve very hot. 

FRIED TOMATOES. 
Mrs. Wells. 
Take large tomatoes, not too ripe, slice half an inch thick ; 
roll in flour, fry in hot butter; garnish with fried eggs. 

CORN OYSTERS. 

Mrs. J. E. Free. 
Grate six large ears of corn; two eggs, a little each of salt, 
cream and flour. Drop a table-spoon of the batter into hot but- 
ter; fry a nice brown on both sides. 

MACARONI AND CHEESE. 

Mrs. O. F. Goddard. 
Boil the macaroni in water until tender, which will be about 
twenty minutes. Mix a dessert-spoon flour with a table-spoon 
butter; add a half cup milk, a half tea-spoon mustard, same of 
salt and pepper, one-fourth tea-spoon Cayenne pepper, four ounces 
grated cheese. Stir all together and boil ten minutes; drain 
water from the macaroni and pour over it the dressing. Boil up 
once and serve hot. 



EGGS. 29 



•^EGGS; 



OMELET. 

Mrs. Philip M. Gallaher. 

Six eggs, one cup milk, one table-spoon flour and a pinch 

of salt. Beat the whites and yolks separately ; mix flour, milk 

and salt, add the yolks, then the whites. Have a buttered dish 

very hot and pour in. Bake in quick oven five minutes. 

EGG SANDWICHES. 
Mrs. J. W. Fish. 
Yolks of two hard-boiled eggs, mashed fine, butter, salt and 
pepper to taste ; when a fine paste, spread on thin slices of 
buttered bread. It is improved by adding slices of chicken. 

EG G S FOR TEA. 

Miss Bertha Crowe. 

Boil eggs until very hard, lay in cold water one-half hour, 

remove shells and cut each eg^ in two lengthwise; carefully lay 

on a platter of crisp lettuce leaves, sprinkle with two table-spoons 

vinegar; add one table-spoon salad oil to the vinegar if preferred. 

EGG OR GERMAN TOAST. 
Miss Martha Shoemaker. 
One egg, one salt-spoon salt, one cup milk, four to six slices 
bread. Beat the egg and add the salt and milk. Soak the bread 
in this till soft. Have a pan well buttered and hot. Brown on 
one side, then put a piece of butter on each slice, turn and 
brown on the other side. 

BAKED EGQS. 
Mrs. M. J. Crampton. 
Take a pudding dish, cover the bottom with slices of toast 
soaked in hot water, buttered and sprinkled with salt. Break 
as many eggs as needed into a saucer, taking care not to dis- 
turb the yolks, and put them on the toast. Cover the dish and 
set in the oven. In ten minutes remove cover, sprinkle with 
salt and a few pieces of butter. Brown for three or four minutes 
and serve hot. 

PICKLED EGGS. 

Miss Bertha Crowe. 
Take hard boiled eggs, remove shells, and place in vinegar with 
few slices of beets. Season vinegar with cloves, salt and pepper. 



30 PROGRESSIVE COOK BOOK. 

HARD BOILED EGOS. 

Mrs. Rachel Stephenson. 
To boil an egg hard, boil it twenty minutes. 

EGGS A LA CREME. 
Mrs. G. W. Shoemaker. 
Hard boil twelve eggs; slice tiiin into rings. In the bottom of 
a large baking dish put a layer of grated bread crumbs, then one 
of eggs; cover with bits of butter and sprinkle with salt and pep- 
per. Continue thus to blend these ingredients till dish is full. 
Be sure that crumbs cover the top of eggs. Over the whole 
pour a large tea-cup of sweet cream and brown in the oven. 

EG G SA LAD. 
From "Parlor and Kitchen." 
Take as many eggs as needed and boil until perfectly hard — 
almost half an hour. Take out the yolks carefully; chop the 
whites very fine. Arrange lettuce leaves or cress on a dish, mak- 
ing nests of the whites and put the yolks in each nest. Sprinkle 
over the whole French dressing. 

EGG BALLS FOR SOUP. 

From "The Family Cook Book." 
Boil an egg hard, remove the shell and white. Rub the yolk 
through a sieve and mix with the yolk of a raw egg, a table- 
spoon salt, a dust of Cayenne pepper, enough flour to make the 
mixture firm enough to roll into "little balls between the palms 
of the hands. Throw the egg-balls into salted boiling water and 
boil till they float on the surface. Skim them out and add to 
any dish for which they are required. 

CURRIED EGGS. 

Frqm "The Kitchen Companion." 
Six hard boiled eggs, ^one cup stock, one-half cup cream, one 
tea-spoon chopped onion, three table-spoons butter, one table- 
spoon flour, one tea-spoon curry powder; salt and pepper. After 
cooking the onion and butter in a small frying pan for three 
minutes, put in the flour and curry powder. Stir the liquid until 
smooth, then add the stock, cream and seasoning, and cook for 
ten minutes. Quarter the eggs and place in a deep sauce-pan. 
Strain the sauce over them. Serve hot with toast. 

BAKED EGGS. 

Mrs. Paul McCormiok. 
Break eight eggs into a well-battered dish. Put into it pep- 
per and salt, bits of butter, three table-spoons cream and bake 
quickly until the whites are cooked. Serve hot. 



BREAD. 31 



•^BREAD.N^ 



SIX WEEKS' YEAST. 
Mrs. J. Fleming Sleeper. 
One quart flour, one table-.'spoon each of ginger and salt, one- 
half cup molasses or one table-spoon molasses and two of sugar. 
Pour strong boiling hop water on this; when cool add the yeast. 

HOP YEAST. 
Mrs. Silas Van Wagnen. 
Two handfuls of hops boiled a long time, three or four pota- 
toes grated and cooked in the hop-water after hops are strained, 
a little salt, one tea-spoon each of sugar and ginger, one-half 
cup soft yeast or two" yeast cakes. Put away in a jar. 

BREAD. 
Mrs. W. B. Chrysler. 

Yeast. — Two quarts potatoes, pare, cut in small slices and boil; 
then mash, and add one quart each of boiling water and cold 
water. When luke-warm add one-half cup sugar, one-fourth cup 
salt, one and one-half cups flour and one pint warm water. Stir 
this together with two yeast cakes, and set in a warm place to 
rise half a day ; then tie in a jar and set in a cool place. 

Bread. — For four loaves of bread and a tin of biscuit, take two 
cnps warm water and four cups yeast. Make this into a hard 
loaf and let it rise two or three hours; then make into small 
loaves. Let rise half an hour, then bake. 

STEAMED GRAHAM BREAD. 
Mrs. Sabin. 
Three cups sour milk or butter-milk, one-half cup sour cream 
or two table-spoons melted butter, one-half cup molasses, one cup 
boiled pumpkin or one-half cup sugar, one and one-half cups 
wheat flour, two cups graham flour, two cups Indian meal, one 
tea-spoon each of soda and salt. One-half cup raisins added 
makes a good pudding to be eaten with sweet sauce. 

BREAD. 
Mrs. Rachel Stephenson. 
Cook two potatoes in one quart of water ; one yeast-cake for 
four loaves of bread. Set sponge over night, and in the morn- 
ing knead it three different times. Put into pans and let it 
rise ; then bake. 



32 PROGRESSIVE COOK BOOK. 

BREAD OR RAISED CAKE. 
Mrs. Geo. C. Stull. 
Two cups raised dough ; beat into it two-thirds cup butter 
and two cups sugar, creamed together ; three eggs well beaten, 
one even tea-spoon soda dissolved in two table-spoons milk, half 
a nutmeg grated, one table-spoon cinnamon, one tea-spoon cloves, 
one cup raisins. Mix all well together; put in the beaten whites 
of eggs and raisins last. Beat all hard for several minutes; put 
in buttered paas and let stand half an hour to rise again before 
baking. Bake in moderate oven. 

CORN BREAD. 

Miss Maggie Boykin. 
One quart Indian meal, one tea-spoon soda, one pint butter-milk. 
Make a thin batter and bake in a hot oven fifteen minutes. 

ROLLS. 
Mrs. Raciikl Stephenson. 
For two duzen rolls take one or two eggs, one quart sweet 
milk, one-half cup sugar, half cup butter. Let it rise and knead 
three times. Make into rolls and bake. 

OR AH AM GEMS. 

Mrs. Walker Browning. 
Two cups graham flour, one cup wheat flour, two tea-spoons 
baking powder, a table-spoon sugar, one of salt and one well 
beaten egg. Mix with enough sweet milk to make a thin bat- 
ter; beat it well. Bake in gem irons. Have the irons well 
greased; fill two-thirds full and bake in a hot oven. 

WA FFL ES. 
Miss Alice Holland. 
One-half cup butter, one quart flour, three tea-spoons baking 
powder, a little salt. Rub the butter into the flour; beat the 
eggs stiff and put into the flour; add one quart of milk. 

BRO WN BREAD. 

Mrs. Lovett. 

Three cups butter-milk or sour milk, five and one-half cups 

graham fluur, one cup molasses, two table-spoons shortening, two 

tea-spoons soda, a little salt. Bake from three to five hours in 

a moderate oven. 

RICE MUFFINS. 

Mrs. H. T. Ramsey. 
Two cups flour, one cup rice, two cups milk, two eggs, two 
heaping tea-spoons baking powder, a little salt. The oven must 
be very hot. 



BREAD. 33 

BREAD. 

Mrs. F. E. St. John. 
Take one magic yeast cake and put it to soak in a little water 
at two o'clock in the afternoon ; when dissolved, stir in flour for 
a thin batter and let it rise. When light, have one pint of scalded 
milk and the same of water, and make your sponge; put in salt 
and a little sugar. Let rise until bed time, then mix it hard, 
knead well, and cover until morning. Mix down two or three 
times and put into tins and let it rise ; then bake. 

ROLLS. 

Mrs. F. H. St. John. 
Pour one pint boiling milk over one quart sifted flour, two 
table-spoons sugar, two of butter, one of lard, and a little salt. 
When luke-warm add one-half cup yeast sponge and let it stand 
over night. In the morning knead it soft enough for rolls ; when 
light roll thin, cut with biscuit cutter ; spread butter on one end 
and fold over. Let rise and bake. 

CORN BREAD. 
Mrs. Rachel Stephenson. 
Put your corn-meal into an iron pot ; scald one-third and wet 
the rest with warm water. Keep warm until it rises. Take one- 
third and put into it an egg, a little sugar, pinch of soda and a 
little salt. Put into the oven and bake. The balance can be 
used at any other time. 

B UNiVS. 

Mrs. Fred Sweetman. 
Break one egg in a cup sweet milk ; mix one-half cup each of 
yeast, butter and sugar, enough flour to make a soft dough ■ 
flavor with nutmeg. Let it rise again in pans; bake, and when 
nearly done glaze with a little molasses and milk. 

CORN- MEAL PANCAKES. 

Mrs. Philip M. Gallahbr. 
One pint sour milk, one tea-spoon soda, one cup flour and one 
of meal, a little salt, and two eggs ; whites and yolks beaten 
separately and whites added last. 

SALT- RISING BREAD. 

Mrs. Henut TerrA.l. 
One small half tea-spoon each of soda and salt, one table- 
spoon sugar, one quart water. Stir thick with flour and set in 
warm water and let rise all day ; mould into loaves and let it 
rise a half hour, then bake. This will make five or six loaves. 



34 PROGRESSIVE COOK BOOK. 

M UFFINS. 
Mrs. Paul McCormick. 
One cup milk, one of flour, one egg and a little salt. 

WHEA T OEMS. 

Mrs. G. W. Shobmakei:. 
One well beaten egg, two cups .«weet milk, three table-spoons 
melted butter, two heaping tea-spoons baking powder, a little 
salt. Stir rather thick with flour, and have your gem pans hot. 
Eat with honey or syrup. 

FL A NNEL CA KES. 
Miss Alice Holland. 
Three eggs beaten separately, two cups sour milk, flour, a little 
salt, and one-half tea-spoon soda dissolved in a little milk. 

CREAM BISCUIT. 

Mrs. Philip M. Gallaher. 
To one quart of sifted flour add two heaping tea-spoons bak- 
ing powder and one coffee-cup sour cream, into which a scant 
one-fourth tea-spoon soda and a little .^alt has been stirred. 
Use sweet milk enough to mix up the flour so it will roll out 
easily. Have the oven hot and bake as quickly as possible. The 
above makes a superior crust for strawberry short-cake. 

SWEET RUSK. 
Mrs. J. Fleming Sleeper. 
One pint warm milk, one and one-half cups butter, one cup 
sugar, two eggs, two table-spoons yeast; mix the milk and yeast 
and enough flour to make a thin batter and let it rise over 
night. In the morning add butter, sugar, eggs, a little salt, and 
enough flour to make a soft dough. Make balls of uniform size, 
set close together in a pan and let rise until light. When done, 
sprinkle pulverized sugar on the to[). 

CINNA M N M UFFINS. 
Mrs. F B. Connolly. 
One tea-cup sour milk, one cup not quite full of sugar, one 
tea-spoon soda, one eg^, one table-spoon cinnamon. Stir thick 
with flour and bake in gem irons. Very nice for breakfast. 

RA^Q MUFFINS. 
Mrs. W. O. Parker. 
Two cups flour, two table-spoons lard, two tea-spoons baking 
powder, a little salt. Wet with milk, roll thin, spread with but- 
ter and sugar, roll thin like rolled jelly cake; cut in slices and bake. 



BREAD. 35 

ASTOR HOUSE ROLLS. 
Mrs. G. W. Shoemaker. 
luto two quarts flour cut pieces of butter the size of an egg, 
a little salt, a table-spoon white sugar, a pint of milk scalded 
and add while warm, one-half cup yeast or one cake. When 
the sponge is light, mould fifteen minutes and let it rise again. 
Roll out and cut into round cakes; flatten with the hand or roll- 
ing pin; place a piece of butter on top and fold each over 
itself. When light bake in a quick oven. 

WAFFLES. 
Mrs. Paul McCormick. 
Two eggs, one pint flour, one and one-fourth cups milk or cream, 
one even tea-spoon baking powder, butter or lard the size of a 
walnut, and salt. Mix the baking powder and salt well in the 
flour, then rub in evenly the butter; next add the beaten yolks 
and milk mixed; then the beaten whites. Bake immediately. 

BOSTON BROWN BREAD. 

Lillian S. Allen. 
Two cups corn-meal, two and one-half cups graham flour, one 
cup molasses, three cups sour milk, one tea-spoon soda, a pinch, 
of salt. Steam three hours. 

BAKING POWDER. 

Marian Harland. 
One ounce super-carbonate soda, seven drachms tartaric acid (in 
powder). Roll smoothly and mix thoroughly ; keep in tight glass 
jar. Use one tea-spoon to a quart of flour. 

CINNAMON BREAD. 

Miss Wistar. 
Two pounds dough, two and one-half ounces lard, one-half pint 
milk, three eggs, one salt-spoon soda, one pint brown sugar, two 
heaping table-spoons cinnamon. Melt the lard in the milk. Beat 
the eggs and add with the milk to the dough. Dissolve the soda 
in warm water and add it. Add the cinnamon. Bake as bread. 
Glaze with the white of an egg and sprmkle powdered sugar 
over it. To be eaten fresh. 

CORN BREAD. 
Mrs. Love Dill, Bkookltn, N. Y. 
One cup Indian meal, one cup flour, two table-spoons melted 
butter, one egg, two and one-half tea-spoons baking povvder, 
one table-spoon sugar, a little salt. Bake in a quick oven. 



36 PROGRESSIVE COOK BOOK. 

POP- OVERS. 

Mrs. Paul McCormick. 
Make by the above recipe for waffles, only stir in more flour, 
and bake in gem pans. Tiiey are very nice. 

MA RYLA ND BIS C UI T. 

Juliet Corson. 
Sift together one quart flour, one heaping tea-spoon salt; six 
heaping tea-spoons butter or lard ; work in enough water to 
make a soft dough. Work and beat this dough, folding it over 
and over to entangle as much air as possible. When the dough 
blisters and breaks with a snap it is properly worked. Break off 
little pieces, prick them with a fork, and bake the biscuits thus 
formed. 



SALADS 



^SALADS 






MA YONNAISE DRESSING. 

Mrs. W. H. Donovan 
Beat one raw egg with a salt-spoon of salt until it is thor- 
oughly smooth ; add a tea-spoon mixed mustard made thicker 
than usual; when quite smooth add by degrees one-half pmt olive 
oil. taking care to blend each portion of it with the egg before 
adding more. Dilute with vinegar until it assumes the consis- 
tency of thick cream. Lemon juice may be used instead of vin- 
egar, or a few drops may be added with the vinegar. 

SALAD DRESSING. 

Mrs. Philip M. Gallaher 
Beat the yolks of eight eggs, add to liiein a cup of sugar, one 
table-spoon each of salt, mustard, black pe[)per, a little Cayenne 
pepper and half a tea-cup of cream ; mix thoroughly. Bring to 
a boil one and one-half pints vinegar; add one cup butter and 
boil again. Pour upon the mixture and stir it well. It can be 
kept for weeks by bottling when cold and putting in a cool place. 

CHICKEN SALAD. 

Mrs. M. F. Sleeper. 
The yolks of three hard boiled eggs, the yolks of two fresh 
raw eggs, two table-spoons olive oil, one table-spoon mixed 
mustard, one tea-spoon each of salt and pepper, three table-spoons 
vinegar. Rub the boiled and raw eggs with the back ot a 
spoon, add the oil slowly, next the mustard, then the salt and 
pepper,- and last the vinegar. Cut the whites of the boiled eggs 
into rings, to ornament the dish, also garnish with the sniall tops 
of celery. 

CREAM DRESSING FOR' CELERY. 

Mrs. J. VV. Fish. 
One-half cup cream, one-fourth cup vinegar or lemon juice, 
two eggs, a lump of butter, one tea-spoon mustard, salt to taste. 
Scald the vinegar with the butter, and pour over the eggs and 
cream beaten together, stirring all the time. Cook over water 
antil thick. Let it cool and beat in oil to taste; a little Cay- 
enne pepper. Cut the celery as for salad and pour the dressing 
over it. This is nice served as a garnish for fiieil oysters. 



PROGRESSIVE COOK BOOK 



CREAM SALAD. 
Mrs. H. T. Ramsey. 
Chop fine one-half bead of cabbage, add a small qaantily of 
celery, stir into it a little salt and one-half cup sweet creanti. 
Heat one-half cup vinegar; stir into it the beaten yolks of two 
eggs and a tea-spoon sugar. Pour this over the cabbage just as 
it goes to the table. 

SALAD DRESSLNO. 

Mrs. Chakles Speab. 
Four eggs, six table-spoons cream, two small tea-spoons ground 
mustard, pinch of Cayenne pepper, one salt-spoon of salt, three 
table-spoons sugar, a small piece of butter. Beat all together 
and set on the stove, then put in one-half tea-cup vinegar, and 
let simmer a few minutes. 

POTATO SALAD. 
Miss Lulu Browning. 
Boil four large potatoes, peel and raash smooth; mince two 
onions and add to the potato; make a dressing of three hard 
boiled eggs, one tea-cup vinegar, one tea-spoon black pepper, 
one dessert-spoon each of celery seed and salt, one table-spoon 
each of prepared mustard and melted butter. Mix well with the 
potatoes and garnish with shoes of egg and celery. 

TOMATO SALAD. 

Mrs. U. E. Frizelle. 
Pare tomatoes with a sharp knife, slice and lay in a salad 
bowl. Make a dressing as follows: Work up a salt-spoon each 
of salt, pepper, fresh made mustard, with two table-spoons salad 
oil, adding a few drops at a time. When thoroughly mixed, 
whip in an egg beaten and four table-spoons vinegar. Toss up 
with a fork. 

CABBA GE SAL A D. 

Mrs. J. E. Free. 
Take a half head of cabbage, cut with a slaw cutter; cut very 
fine a little celery and add to it; sprinkle salt and pepper over 
it. Take a pint of thick cream, either sweet or sour, add vine- 
gar and sugar to taste and pour this over the cabbage; then cut 
two or three hard boiled eggs very fine and add, and stir all 
well together. Garnish with hard boiled eggs cut into rings, 
and the top leaves of celery. 



SALADS. 39 

CABBA GE SALAD. 
Mrs. E. M. Hungerford. 
Beat two eggs with two table-spoons sugar, add a piece of 
butter half the size of an egg, a tea-spoon mustard, a little pep- 
per, and lastly a tea-cup vinegar. Put these ingredients into a 
dish and cook like a custard. If you wish, you can add half a 
cup of thick sweet cream, but use less vinegar. Either way is 
very nice. 

STRING BEAN SALAD. 

Mrs. Wells. 
String the beans and cut lengthwise; then boil in salt water, 
drain and add a sliced onion, vinegar and pepper. If you like 
them wiUed, put a little bacon grease on the beans before add- 
ing the onion and vinegar. 

CUCUMBER SALAD. 
Mrs. U. E. Frizelle. 
Pare cucumbers and lay them in ice- water one hour; do the 
same with onions in another bowl. Then slice them in the pro- 
portion of one onion to three large cucumbers. Arrange in a 
salad bowl and season with vinegar, salt and pepper. 

POTATO SALAD. 
Mrs. O. F. Goddard. 
Chop Go\d boiled potatoes with enough raw onions to season 
nicely. For the dressing, take the yolks of three hard boiled 
eggs and salt and mustard to taste. Mash fine and make a paste 
by adding one dessert-spoon salad oil. Mix thoroughly and then 
dilute by adding one tea-cup vinegar, and pour over the pota- 
toes. Garnish by slicing another egg and laying on it. 



40 PROGRESSIVE COOK BOOK 



<^PaDDING.^> 



CHRISTMAS PUDDING. 

Mks. Philip M. Gallaher. 

One pound raisins seeded aiid cut fine, one pound currants 
thoroughly washed, one pound beef suet freed from strings and 
chopped fine, one pint bread crumbs, one-half pint sifted flour, 
one-fourth pound best sugar, one table-spoon powdered mace and 
cinnamon mixed, and two nutmegs. Beat nine eggs, whites and 
yolks separately, and add one pint rich milk in turn with the 
bread crumbs and flour. Mix with the sugar the grated rind and 
juice of two lemons or oranges ; mix all together, stirring hard, 
adding the fruit after it has been dredged in flour. Steam six 
hours in a tin vessel covered tight in a kettle of boiling water. 

A most excellent sauce may be made for this pudding in the 
following manner: Two cups sugar, one cup butter and four 
eggs. Cream the butter and sugar; beat yolks and ^whites of 
eggs and add them; lastly, add one cup boiling water. Flavor 
to taste. 

LEMON PUDDING. 
Mrs. G. W. Shoemaker. 
One and one-half cups sugar, two eggs, two table-spoons corn- 
starch, two lemons grated, — rind and juice — one anch one-half cups 
water, pinch of salt; stir well. Put in the oven until it stiffens, 
but not brown ; dip out when cool and put a spoon of jelly 
with each dish. 

QUEEN'S PUDDING. 

Mks. H. T Ramsey. 
One pint bread crumbs, one quart milk, one cup sugar, yolks of 
four eggs, grated rind of one lemon, butter size of an egg. Beat 
the whites of the eggs stifT; add one cup sugar, juice of one 
lemon. Brown slightly. 

ENGLISH PLUM PUDDING. 

Mrs. Silas Van Wagnen. 
One cup chopped suet, one cup brown sugar, one-half cup 
molasses, one and one-half cups currants, two cups raisins, one 
cup sGur milk, one tea-spoon soda, two eggs, one teaspoon 
ground cloves and other spices, to suit the taste. Steam four 
hours. Eat with any kind of vsauce. 



PUDDING. 41 



IMPERIAL PUDDING. 

From "The Ladies' Home Journal." 
Boil one quart of milk, one-fourth pound each of butter and 
sugar, and the yolks of twelve eggs. Beat the eggs and sugar 
together, then blend the butter and flour together and add to 
the eggs and sugar; then put in the hot milk; last the whites of 
fourteen eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Place the dish in a pan of 
hot water while cooking, and bake one hour in a moderate oven 
Sauce for the Pudding. — Two cups sugar, one table-spoon 
butter, and one quart strawberries. Beat the butter and sugar to 
a cream ; mash and add the strawberries. 

HONEY COMB PUDDING. 

Mrs. L. M. Birelt. 

One-half cup each of flour, sugar, butter and milk ; beat these 

well together, then add four eggs well beaten. Into one-half 

pint molasses stir one tea-spoon soda and add last. Bake in a 

slow oven. Serve with cream sauce or beaten cream. 

ORANGE PUDDING. 

Mrs. James Eccles. 

Two large oranges pared, cut in pieces one inch square, and 

laid in a pudding dish ; pour over them one cup of white sugar ; 

then make a plain corn starch pudding, without sugar, and pour 

it over the orange and sugar. Let it stand and cool. 

A PPLE PUDDING. 

Mrs W. a. Allen. 
Five large apples, one cup each of raisins, sugar, sweet milk, 
and flour, one-half cup butter, two eggs, a little salt. Bake an 
hour and serve with sauce. 

SUET PUDDING. 
Mrs. F. B. Conollt. 
One cup suet chopped fine, one cup New Orleans molasses, one 
cup seedless raisins, one-half cup sour milk, one tea-spoon soda, 
two and one-half cups flour. Spices to your taste. 

RICE PUDDING. 

Mrs. E. S. Holme&. 
One cup cooked rice, one quart milk, one-half cup butter, one 
cup each of sugar and raisins, a little salt. Bake a long time 
and stir often. 

COTTAGE PUDDING. 
Mrs. W. E. Barker. 
One cup sweet milk, two eggs, one cup sugar, two cups flour, 
three table-spoons melted butter, two tea-spoons baking powder. 
Bake half an hour. To be eaten with sweet sauce. 



42 PROGRESSIVE COOK BOOK. 

BATTER PUDDING. 

Mrs. Charles Spear. 

Four eggs beaten separately, one quart milk, two table-spoons 

corn starch or flour. Mix the flour with the milk; then put in 

the yolks of the eggs. After you put the batter in your pudding 

dish, add whites of the eggs and bake in the oven. 

SUET PUDDING. 

Mrs. E. S. Holmes. 
One coflfee-cup suet chopped fine, one cup each of molasses 
and sweet milk, three and one-half cups flour, one and one-half 
cups stoned raisins, one tea-sj^oon each of salt, cinnamon, cloves, 
and one-half tea-spoon soda. Steam two and one-half hours. 

BAKED INDIAN PUDDING. 

Mrs. H. F. Clement. 
Boil one quart sw^eet milk ; thicken it with three table-spoons 
molasses, four table-spoons sifted corn-meal, one table-spoon but- 
ter, one egg, a little cinnamon or nutmeg to taste. Serve with 
sauce while warm. 

FRENCH PUDDING. 

Mrs. G. W. Shoemaker. 
One-third box of gelatine dissolved in one pint of milk ; 
boil twenty minutes and add one cup sugar. Beat the yolks of 
four eggs and pour into the hot milk, stirring briskly. Again 
cook a little as for custard. Beat the whites of the eggs stiff 
and pour the boiling custard on them ; stir fast, flavor with va- 
nilla, and pour into moulds. To be eaten with one pint sweet 
whipped cream. 

S TEA MED PUDDING. 

Mrs. Fred Sweetman. 
One cup New Orleans molasses, one cup suet chopped fine, one 
cup sweet milk, one tea-spoon soda, three cups flour, one tea- 
spoon cinnamon, some nutmeg; add last one cup raisins, chopped. 
Steam three hours. Serve with currant sauce. 

PORTLAND PUDDING. 
Mrs. Philip M. Gallaher. 
Three-fourths cup rice cooked thoroughly in one quart milk; 
then stir into it the yolks of four eggs, a small piece of butter, 
the grated peel of one lemon, and three table-spoons sugar, all 
well beaten together. Put it in a dish and cover with a merin- 
gue composed of whites of four eggs, four table-spoons sugar, 
and juice of one lemon. Brown delicately in the oven. 



PUDDING. 43 

CHOCOLATE PUDDING. 

Mrs. J. W. Pish. 
One quart milk, one cup grated sweet chocolate, one cup sugar; 
heat the milk and stir in the chocolate while cooking. Beat six 
eggs, leaving the whites of three for a meringup ; add batter the 
size of a hickory nut; flavor with vanilla, bake half an hour. 
Eat cold without sauce. 

BATTER PUDDING. 
Miss Rena Stanley. 
For six cups, and put the fruit in each cup : Batter. — One cup 
sweet milk, one egg, piece butter size of an eg^ ; make it of 
medium stiffness. Steam twenty minutes. Serve with sauce. 

SN W PUDDING. 

Mrs. G. W. Shoemaker. 
Soak one-half box gelatine in a tea-cup of cold water; pour 
on it one pint boiling water and set in a cool place, but do 
not let it harden. Beat the whites of three eggs, to which add 
three cups sugar, and juice of two lemons. Mix with the gela- 
tine and pour into moulds. Serve with whipped cream sauce. 

CURRANT PUDDING. 

Mrs. W. H. Donovan. 
One cup each of sugar, sweet cream and currants, two eggs, 
one pint flour, one and one-half tea-spoons baking powder, a 
pinch of salt. To be eaten with hard or liquid sauce. 

BREAD PUDDING. 

Mrs. Silas Van Wagnen. 
Three eggs, one and one-half cups sugar beaten together; two 
cups milk, one tea-cup bread crumbs, one tea-cup ra'sins, one 
nutmeg, a little salt. ' 

NO NAME PUDDING. 

Mrs. M. J. Crampton. 
Beat well the yolks of three eggs, add one-half cup sugar, a 
little salt, one spoon butter, flour to make a medium stiffness, 
one tea-spoon baking powder, and one cup seedless raisins; beat 
well together and steam one hour. Serve with a sauce made of 
one cup granulated sugar, one spoon butter, a little salt. Over 
this pour one cup boiling water; when it boils put in one spoon 
flour blended m three of milk. Boil one minute, flavor with 
lemon; remove from the fire and stir in whites of three eggs 
beaten to a stiff froth, with one spoon powdered sugar. The 
pudding is a golden yellow, the sauce is white. 



44 PROGRESSIVE COOK BOOK. 

LEMON CREAM PUDDING. 

Mrs. J. A Johnston, Emporium. Pa. 
Beat four table-spoons sugar, yolks of four egf(s, juice and 
rind of one lemon and two table-spoons hot water together. 
Let it simmer on back of stove until it thickens. Take from 
the fire and stir in the whites of the eggs, beaten to a stiff froth 
with two table-spoons sugar. To be eaten cold. 

ORANGE PUDDING. 

Mrs. Love Dill, Brookltn, N. Y. 
Peel and slice five oranges; one cup white sugar, one pint 
boiling milk, yolks of three eggs, one table-spoon corn starch 
made smooth with cold milk. When thickened, pour in the 
orange. Froth the whites of three eggs with a table-spoon pow- 
dered sugar ; pour this over all. Set in the oven to harden. 

COTTAGE PUDDING. 

Mrs. W. Browning. 
One heaping pint flour, one-half cup sugar, one cup milk, one 
tea-spoon soda dissolved in the milk, one table-spoon butter, two 
tea-spoons cream tartar rubbed dry in the flour; flavor with nut- 
meg and bake in a moderate oven. Cut in slices and serve 
with sweet sauce. 

BAKED APPLE DUMPLINGS. 
From " The Ladies' Home Journal." 
Use tart apples. Make a paste of one quart flour, into which 
two heaping tea-spoons baking powder have been sifted, and 
also one of soda, one-fourth pound butter or lard, some salt. 
Rub well together and wet up quickly with water enough to 
make a stiff paste. Roll into sheets and cut into squares. Put 
with it before covering, a heaping tea-spoon each of butter and 
sugar. Arrange the dumplings in a pan half filled with water, 
into which melt one-third tea-cup butter and one tea-cup sugar 
seasoned with cinnamon. Baste frequently. 

CABINET PUDDING. 

Marian Harland. 
One-half pound flour, scant one-fourth pound butter, rive eggs, 
one and one-half pounds sugar, one-half pound raisins, seeded and 
chopped, one-fourth pound currants, washed and dried, one-half 
cup cream or milk, one half lemon — ^juice, and rind grated. 
Cream the butter and sugar; add the beaten yolks, then the milk 
and flour alternately with the whites ; lastly, stir in the fruit 
dredged with flour; boil two and one-half hours. Serve hot 
with sauce. 



PUDDING 45 

TRANSPARENT PUDDING. 
Mrs. Love Dill, Brooklyn, N. Y. 
Six eggs, one-half pound each ot sugar and butter; melt the 
butter and sugar together; beat the eggs well and stir in while 
the ingredients are warm. Pour into paste without top. 

BAKED TOMATO PUDDINO. 

Mrs. Love Dill, Bhooklyn, N. T. 
Butter the inside of a deep pudding dish. Put in a layer ot 
bread crumbs, a layer of pealed sliced tomato, a small onion 
chopped fine ; dredge with a little flour, pepper and salt, two 
table-spoons sugar. Continue thus until the dish is full, the top 
layer being crumbs, with small bits of butter. Put in the oven, 
keep covered for an hour, then uncover and cook another hour. 

TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

^ Mrs. Love Dill, BrooKLYN, N. Y. 

Soak eight table-spoons tapioca in one quart of milk till soft ; 
then add two table-spoons melted batter, four eggs well beaten, 
spice and sugar to taste. Bake in a buttered dish. Serve with 
or without sauce. 



46 PROGRESSIVE COOK BOOK. 



■sKGaSTARDS, SAaGES, ETG.**' 

WHIPPED CREAM. 

Mrs. J. E. Free. 
Whip your cream with a fork. Sweeten and flavor to taste. 

FRENCH CUSTARD. 
Mrs J. Fleming Sleeper. 
Beat four eggs separately; to the yolks add two table-spoons 
flour and one quart milk ; let this come to a boil, sweeten and 
flavor lo taste. Put four tea-spoons sugar and some flavoring 
into the whites of the eggs; beat very stiff. Drop this over the 
custard and brown. Eat without sauce. 

COFFEE JELL Y. 

Mrs. G. W. Shoemaker. 
One-half box of gelatine dissolved in one cup cold water, one 
cup boiling coffee, one cup boiling water, one and one-half cups 
sugar ; let it come to a boil, strain and set in moulds to cool. 
Eat with cream and sugar. 

LEMON SA UCE. 

Mrs. O. F. Goddard. 
One cup sugar, one-half cup butter, one egg, one lemon (juice 
and grated rind), three table-spoons boiling water. Put in a tin 
pail and thicken over steam. 

CHOCOLATE CREAM. 

Mrs. Philip M. Gallaher. 
Two quarts milk boiled and sweetened, three-fourths pound 
chocolate scraped and dissolved in milk. Add the milk to the 
chocolate, stirring constantly ; boil until you think it is cooked. 
Beat the yolks of four eggs and add to the chocolate. When 
cool, strain the whole and boil to the consistency of rich custard. 

CORN STARCH BLANC MANGE. 

Miss Lulu Browning. 
Take one quart sweet milk and put one pint of it on the stove 
to heat; in the other pint mix four heaping table-spoons corn 
starch and one-half cup sugar. When the milk is hot pour in 
the cold milk with the corn starch and sugar thoroughly mixed 
in it, and stir all together until there are no lumps, and it is 
thick; flavor with lemon. Take it from the stove and add the 
whites of three eggs beaten to a stiff froth. 



CUSTARDS, SAUCES, ETC. 47 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 

Mrs. J. A. Johnston, Emporium, Pa. 
Soak three-fourths box gelatine in one pint cold water; boil 
until it is reduced one-half. While this is cooking, beat together 
the yolks of four eggs with one-half pound sugar; strain the gel- 
atine and when cool put it into the eggs. Whip one quart rich 
cream to a stiff froth; beat all together quickly and pour into a 
dish lined with cake. 

CORN STARCH BLANC MANGE. 
Miss Lulu Browning. 
Take one quart sweet milk and put one pint of it on the 
stove to heat; in the other pint mix four heaping table-spoons 
corn starch and one-half cup sugar. When the milk is hot, pour 
in the cold milk with the corn starch and sugar thoroughly 
mixed in it, and stir all together until there are no lumps and 
It is thick; flavor with lemon. Take from stove and add the 
whites of three eggs beaten to a stiff froth. 

LEMON CUSTARD. 
Mrs. J. W. Vaughn. 
One pint sweet cream, three eggs, one lemon, two-thirds cup 
sugar. Mix the cream, sugar and eggs together, then chop the 
lemon fine and put into it. Bake at once. 

ORANGE CREAM. 
• From "Mrs. Rorer's Cook Book." 

One-half box gelatine, one cup sugar, five oranges, one pint 
ef.ch of sweet cream and sweet milk, yolks of five eggs, Cover 
the gelatine with cold water and let stand half an hour. Whip 
the cream. Put the milk on to boil; as soon as it boils put in 
the gelatine. Beat the eggs and sugar together until light; strain 
gelatine and milk into them. Wash the boiler and return the 
mixture. Stir two minutes, then turn out to cool. When cold 
add the juice of the oranges. Place the dish in a pan of cracked 
ice and stir until it begins to thicken, then add the whipped 
cream. Turn into fancy mould and stand on ice to harden. 
Serve plain or with whipped cream heaped around it. 

ORANGE JELL Y. 

Mrs. Charles Spear. 
Soak one box gelatine in one pint of water and let stand two 
hours ; three oranges and one lemon — take all the seeds out, the 
rinds off and add the rest, three tea-cups sugar; add one quart 
water and set on stove; then put in the gelatine and let boil 
five minutes. Pour into moulds. 



48 PROGRESSIVE COOK BOOK. 

BOILED CUSTARD. 

Mrs. C. M. Childs. 
One large pint milk, one dessert-spoon vanilla, small pinch salt, 
yolks of two eggs well beaten with five dessert-spoons sugar, 
two dessert-spoons corn starch dissolved in one-half cup milk. 
Put the milk in an extra pail on the stove, and when it almost 
boils, put in the other ingredients, then boil it thick. Take from 
the stove and put a meringue of the whites of two eggs well 
beateB with one table-spoon sugar, and lemon flavoring. Brown 
slightly in the oven. When ready to serve, put a spoon of 
jelly in each dish with the custard. 

RICE SNO W BA LLS. 
Wash and boil two cups rice in one tea-cup water and one of 
milk, with a little salt. When the rice is tender, flavor with va- 
nilla. Form into balls and place around the inside of a deep dish 
with a soft, rich custard. Serve either hot or cold. 

WHITE SAUCE FOR VEO ETA BLES, ETC. 
Miss Martha Shoemaker. 

One pint milk, two table-spoons each of butter and flour, one- 
half tea-spoon salt, one-half salt-spoon pepper ; heat the milk 
over hot water; put the butter in a granite sauce-pan and stir 
until it melts; add dry flour and stir quickly until it melts. Pour 
on a little of the milk and let it boil, and stir well; then add 
the remainder of the milk and stir until perfectly smooth. Then 
add salt and pepper. 



CHINESE. 49 



*GH1NESE>> 



CHINESE FRITTERS. 
Two cups rice flour, one-half cup sugar; scald him with hot 
water. Mix like bread, roll into balls, put in hot fat on stove, 
cook hira like doughnuts. 

CUSTARD. 
Jim Chinaman. 
Two eggs, one cup milk, three spoons sugar; have slow fire; 
no cook long, spoil it. 

RICE. 
By a Sea Captain. 
, Wash him well, much wash in cold water the rice, flour make 
him stick. Water boil already very fast ; throw him in, rice 
can't burn, water shake him too much. Boil one-fourth hour or 
little more; rub one rice between thumb and finger, if all rub 
away, him quite done. Put rice in colander, hot water run 
away; pour cup cold water on him; put back rice in sauce-pan, 
keep him covered near fire, then rice all ready, " eat him up." 

SPONGE CAKE. 
Four eggs, two cups flour, one cup sugar, little vanilla. Beat 
eggs separately, and put in whites last. 

BRO WN BREAD. 
Jim Chinaman. 
Two cups water, three-fourths cup mola.sses ; mix with white 
and graham flour together; one-half cup yeast, a litttle salt. 

GREEN PEPPERS. 
Chop meat; cut hole, take out seeds, fill up, little salt; put 
in oven, bake. " Eat him up." 



50 PROGRESSIVE COOK BOOK. 



•^P1ES>> 



PASTRY FOR ONE PIE. 
Miss Martha Shoemaker. 
One and one-half cups flour, from one-half to three-fourths cup 
butter and lard mixed, one-half tea-spoon salt, one salt-spoon 
baking powder. Sift the flour, salt and baking powder twice. 
Rub in the shortening until fine like meal, then wet with a little 
cold water. 

FLAKY PIE CRUST. 

Mrs. M. J. Crampton. 

Roll upper crust thin ; spread it with lard or butter, then 

scatter flour over it. Fold the crust on the middle from each 

of the four corners. Do this four times. Spread a little lard 

over the pie crust just before putting in the oven. 

LEMON PIE. 
Mrs. W. Browning. 
The yolks of six eggs and two cups pulverized sugar beaten 
well together, two and one-half cups milk, juice of three lemons, 
a little salt. Mix well and bake with one crust. Spread a me- 
ringue of whites of the eggs and one cup pulverized sugar over 
top of pies and brown in the oven. This makes two pies. 

LEMON PIE. 

Mrs. H. F. Clement. 

One cup hot water, one table-spoon corn starch, one cup white 

sugar, one table-spoon butter, the juice and grated rind of one 

lemon. Cook for a few minutes, add one egg and bake with 

bottom and top crusts. 

G OLDEN PIE. 

Mrs. H. T. Ramsey. 
The rind and juice of one lemon, one cup each of sugar and 
milk, one table-spoon corn starch, yolks of three eggs. Bake 
slowly and frost the top. 

PINE-APPLE PIE. 
Mrs. J. A. Johnston, Emporium, Pa. 
One grated pine-apple and its weight in sugar, one-half its 
vreight in butter, five eggs, the whites beaten to a stiff froth, one 
cup cream. Cream the butter, sugar and yolks of the eggs until 
very light; add the cream, pine-apple and whites of the eggs. 
Bake with an under crust. 



PIES. 51 

C RA NBER R Y PIE. 
Mes. Wells. 
Boil the cranberries until almost done; sweeten and cool. Roll 
out pie crust, put in cranberries, and cover with strips of crust, 
twisting them before puttmg on. Bake quickly. 

CHERR Y TART. 
From "The Ladies' Home Journal." 
Line the pie dish with rich paste; sprinkle over it about a 
level table-spoon sifted flour, and a little butter. Pour into it the 
fresh cherries, stemmed and pitted, and sprinkle over them one- 
half cup granulated sugar. When baked, cover top with meringue 
of the white of one egg beaten to a stiff froth with one large 
spoon of pulverized sugar. Return to oven long enough to make 
the icing firm. 

S Q UA SH PIE. 

s Mrs. Philip M. Gallaher. 

One quart baked squash (Hubbard if possible) pressed through 
a sieve, eight eggs beaten separately, two quarts milk, two cu^is 
vrhite sugar, one tea-spoon nutmeg, half tea-spoon cinnatnon, and 
one tea-spoon salt. Beat all together and bake in under crust 
without cover. The under crust should first be rubbed with a 
well-beaten eeg. 

LEMON PIE. 
Mrs. E. M. Hungerford. 

One coffee-cup sugar, three eggs, one cup water, one table- 
spoon melted butter, one heaping table-spoon flour, the juice and 
a little of the rind of one lemon; reserve the whites of the eggs, 
and when the pie is done, spread them over the top, beaten 
lightly with a spoon of sugar; return to oven and brown. This 
may be cooked before putting into the pie, or not ; but it is 
rather better to cook it first in a double boiler. This makes a 
medium sized pie. Bake thirty or forty minutes. 

CORN STARCH CUSTARD PIE. 

Mrs. J. A. Johnston, Emporium, Pa. 
Boil three pints milk ; stir into it two table-spoons corn starch 
wet with a little milk, and boil one minute. When nearly cold, 
stir in six table-spoons white sugar, the yolks of six eggs and 
whites of two; flavor with essence of hitter almond and pour into 
paste shells. Whip the remaining whites to a meringue with 
two table-spoons sugar and one tea-spoon vanilla. When the cus- 
tard is set, draw pies to edge of oven and spread it over them 
quickly and brown. 



52 PROGRESSIVE COOK BOOK. 

CREAM PIE. 
Mrs. F. R. St. John. 
Beat four eggs separately. To the yolks add one cup white 
sugar, two cups sweet milk, and one table-spoon corn starch or 
flour made smooth in a little milk; flavor with lemon. Beat all 
well together and cook in a vessel with water around it; stir until 
thick like custard. Bake with one crust. Now beat one cup 
white sugar with the whites of the eggs and spread on top. 
Brown lightly in the oven. This makes two pies. 

COCO A NUT PIE. 
Mrs. J. W. Fish. 
One pint milk, one-half cocoanut, grated, one-half cup sugar, 
yolks of three eggs and the white of one. Beat the yolks and 
sugar together, then stir in the milk and cocoanut, filling the pan 
even full, and bake. Beat the remaining whites to a stiff frothy 
stirring in three table-spoons cocoanut. Pour over each pie and 
bake a light brown. 

GREEN APPLE PIE. 

Miss Lulu Browning. 
Peel, core and slice tart apples enough for one pie; sprinkle 
over the apples about three table-spoons sugar, one tea-spoon 
cinnamon, one small level table-spoon sifted flour, two table- 
spoons water, a few bits butter ; stir all together with a spoon. 
Put into a pie pan lined with paste, cover with a top crust and 
bake. 

RHUBARB PIE. 

Mrs. G. W. Shoemaker. 
One and one-half pounds rhubarb, chopped fine, one cup rai- 
sins chopped fine, three cups brown sugar. Mix well. Pat in 
a little butter, dredge with a little flour before putting on top 
crust. This makes three pies. 

LEMON PIE. 
Mrs. Gib. Lane. 
One good sized lemon grated, one cup sugar, yolks of three 
eggs, small pieces butter, three table-spoons milk. Beat all to- 
gether and bake in rich crust. Put a meringue of the whites 
with three spoons sugar on each pie, and brown lightly. 

BANANA PIE. 

Mrs. Wells. 
Peel and slice bananas until pan is full enough, then sprinkle 
with sugar, two table-spoons vinegar, small piece butter, and 
some grated nutmeg. Bake between two crusts. 



PIES. 53 

SWEET POTATO PIE. 
From " The Delineator." 
Stir together thoroughly one cup cooked, mashed, and strained 
sweet-potatoes, one pint millc, a pinch of salt, two table-spoons 
sugar, one tea-spoon cinnamon and two well-beaten eggs. Bake 
with a bottom crust only, in a quick oven, until a knife blade, 
when thrust in, will come out clean. 

MINCE PIE. 
Mrs. C. M. Childs. 
Two and one-half pounds lean meat, double the quantity of 
apple, one and one-half pounds raisins, one pound currants, one 
and one-half pounds suet chopped fine, one quart cider, sugar 
and spices to taste. Cook slowly for an hour, then seal in jars. 
Put a piece of butter size of an egg in each pie. 

LEMON RAISIN PIE. 

Mrs. G. W. Shoemaker. 
Grate the rind of one lemon, then peel oflP the skin and chop 
pulp fine; one cup seeded raisins, one cup sugar, one small cup 
water, and one egg well beaten. Mix all well together and bake 
between two crusts. 

FROSTED CREAM PIE. 

Mrs. U. E. Frizelle. 
One pint milk, the yolks of three eggs and white of one, two 
table-spoons sugar, a pinch of salt. When baked, put on the 
frosting, made of the whites of two eggs beaten stiff, two table- 
spoons powdered sugar, small pinch of salt and any flavoring you 
choose. Set back in oven and brown. 

CRUST FOR PUMPKIN PIE. 

Mrs. Philip M. Gallaher. 
Take pie dish and butter it well; then take some dry corn- 
meal and shake it around in the buttered tin ; empty it out, 
leaving only what sticks to the tin. Have pumpkin ready the 
same as for any pie; pour it into tin and bake it. You will be 
surprised to see what a nice crust it will form. 

CHOCOLA TE PIE. 

Mrs. J. W. Fisn. 
Four tea-spoons grated chocolate, one pint boiling water (let 
it simmer a few minutes), the yolks of two eggs and two table- 
spoons sugar. Mix all together like boiled custard. Make a 
frosting of the whites of two eggs with one tea-spoon pow- 
dered sugar. 



54 PROGRESSIVE COOK BOOK. 

CREAM PIE. 
Mrs. J. W. Vaughn. 
One cup sweet cream, three table-spoons sugar, one table- 
spoon flour, butter the size of an egg, a Httle nutmeg. Bake with 
one crust. 

TRANSPARENT PIE. 

Miss Alice Holland. 
A cofFee-cup not quite full of granulated sugar, one-half cup 
butter and cream together, three eggs beaten separately and each 
stiff; put the yolks in first and stir; add whites of the eggs 
last; flavor. Bake with under crust only. This will make two 
pies. 

LEMON MINCE PIE. 
Mrs. C. H. Sabin. 
One pound raisins, two lemons, three cups sugar, six eggs, 
butter half the size of an egg, two cups milk. This makes four 
pies. 

PEA CH PIE. 

Mrs. Frank McCormick. 

Bake under crust ; then fill with peaches from can ; then cover 

peaches with a boiled custard made of two eggs and one tea-cup 

of milk. Keep whites of eggs to whip and cover over top of 

custard. 

CUSTARD PIE. 
Mrs. H. W. Rowley. 
Beat three eggs thoroughly and add one-half cup sugar, pinch 
of salt and nutmeg. Pour over this nearly one quart boiling 
milk. Bake in hot oven, but do not let boil. 

FILLING FOR LEMON PIE. 

Miss Martha Shoemaker. 
Take grated rind and juice of two large lemons, small cup 
water, one cup sugar, small piece butter, yolks of two eggs ; 
heat until it boils, then thicken with three table-spoons flour. 
Bake crust first, then put in filling and bake five minutes. Put a 
meringue of whites of eggs beaten stiff with table-spoon sugar 
and a little vanilla on top ; brown in oven. 

MOLASSES LEMON PIE. 
Mrs. Love Dill, Brooklyn, N. Y. 
Three lemons, one cup sugar, one cup molasses, one and one- 
half cups hot water, three tea-spoons flour made smooth with 
melted butter, then add other ingredients. Boil two minutes 
and bake in crusts. 



PIES. 55 

APPLE MERINGUE PIE. 

From "The Ladies' Home Journal." 
Pare, slice thin and stew, juicy apples, with about one teacup 
cold water in bottom of kettle to prevent burning. Cover pie 
plates with rich paste, fill with apples, leaving one-fourth inch 
at top. Bake until paste is brown, then till with meringue 
made from whites of two eggs and one light table-spoon sugar. 
Return to oven and brown. Serve cold. 

ORANGE PIE. 
Mrs. Love Dill, Brooklyn, N. Y. 
Three eggs, three-fourths cup white sugar, two table-spoons 
butter, juice and rind of one orange and one-half of a lemon. 



56 PROGRESSIVE COOK BOOK. 

#4LAYER.N 



BOILED FROSTING. 

Mrs. J. E. Free. 
One cup white sugar with a little cold water (boil without 
stirring, until it becomes a trifle brittle when put into cold wa- 
ter); pour this into the beaten white of an egg, with whatever 
flavor you choose, and beat until cold; spread on the cake. A 
little tartaric acid makes the icing more firm. 

JELLY CAKE. 
Mrs. Love Dill, Brooklyn, N. Y. 
One-fourth cup butter, one and one-half cups flour, one tea- 
spoon soda, two tea-spoons cream tartar, three eggs, one-half 
cup milk, one cup sugar. Bake in layers and spread with jelly. 

WHITE M UNTA IN CA KE. 

Mrs. L. M. Birely. 

One cup sugar, one &%g, butter size of an Qg^, a little salt 
and extract of lemon. Beat this to a cream, add one cup sweet 
milk, and two cups flour, into which two tea-spoons baking 
powder has been mixed. Bake in four layers. 

Filling. — One tea-cup thick SAveet cream, whipped with two 
table-spoons sugar and one-half tea-spoon lemon extract. 

SILVER, OR DELICATE CAKE. 
Miss Lulu Browning. 
Whites of six eggs, one cup sweet milk, two cuj^s sugar, four 
cups sifted flour, tAvo-thirds cup butter, flavoring and two tea- 
spoons baking powder. Cream the butter and sugar, then add milk, 
flavoring, and part of flour, beaten whites of eggs, then rest of 
flour. Bake in two tins lined with buttered white paper. 

ICE-CREAM CAKE. 
Mrs. George Comfort. 
One cup sugar, one-half cup each of butter and milk, whites 
of three eggs, two cups flour, one and one-half tea-spoons bak- 
ing powder, one tea-spoon vanilla. 

Filling. — Yolks of three eggs, one cup pulverized sugar, one 
and one-half tea-spoons vanilla. Beat fifteen minutes, when it 
will be nice and creamy. Spread between layers and on top, and 
set in oven a minute to harden frosting. 



LAYER CAKE. 57 



GOLD CA KE. 
After beating to a cream one and one-half cups butter and 
two cups sugar, stir in tiie well-beaten yolks of one dozen eggs, 
four cups sifted flour, one tea-spoon baking powder. Bake in 
buttered tins one hour. 

MINN EH A HA CA KE. 
Mrs. I. D. O'Donnell. 
One cup sugar, one-half cup each of butter and sweet milk, 
two tea-spoons baking powder, two cups flour, whites of four 
eggs. 

Filling. — One cup sugar, a little water; boil until brittle. Beat 
into it the whites of two eggs well beaten, and one cup seeded 
raisins, chopped fine. 

WHITE LA YER CAKE. 
Miss Alice Holland. 
Whites of seven eggs beaten to stiff froth, two cups powdered 
sugar, one small cup butter. Cream the butter and sugar to- 
gether, add one-half cup milk, three cups flour, three tea-spoons 
baking powder; flavor. Bake in layers, and put any kind of 
filling between them. 

MY FAVORITE CAKE. 

Mrs. E. H. Lee. 

One cup butter, two cups powdered sugar, one cup sweet 
milk, three scant cups flour, one-half cup corn starch, four eggs, 
two tea-spoons each of baking powder and lemon extract. Sift 
the flour and sugar; whip the eggs separately, and add the 
whites last. Beat the butter and sugar to a cream. 

Filling. — Two-thirds cup sugar, three table-spoons hot water; 
boil briskly until it begins to candy, then pour over it the white 
of one- egfg beaten to a stiff froth, beating quickly all the time 
until cool. Spread on the cake. 

PRINCE OF WALES CAKE. 

Mrs. W. E. Barker. 

Dark Part. — One cup brown sugar, one-half cup each of but- 
ter and sour milk, two cups flour, one cup raisins, one tea-spoon 
soda dissolved in warm water, one table-spoon molasses, yolks 
of three eggs, one table-spoon each of cinnamon and nutmeg, 
one-half table-spoon cloves. 

Light Part. — One cup flour, one-half cup each of corn starch, 
sweet milk and butter, one cup sugar, one large tea-spoon yeast 
powder, whites of three eggs. Bake in layers, and put to- 
gether with icing. 



58 PROaRESSIVE COOK BOOK. 

RAISIN LAYER CAKE. 
Mrs. L. p. Fields. 

One-half cup butter, one cup each of sugar and milk, three 
eggs, — leaving out the white of one — two and one-half cups 
flour, two tea-spoons baking powder. 

Filling. — One cup sugar, four table-spoons water, boil to a 
syrup. Have the white of one egg beaten to a stiff froth; pour 
on the boiling syruj:), stirring all the time; to this add one-half 
cup raisins, seeded and chopped fine, and one-half cup hickory 
nuts, chopped fine. Spread between layers and on top. 

CHOCOLATE CAKE. 
Miss Martha Shoemaker. 
One cup sugar, one-half cup butter, two eggs, two cups flour, 
one-half cup milk, two tea-spoons baking powder. Mix one- 
half cake chocolate with one-half cup sweet milk, yolk of one 
^^g and one cup sugar. Cook this until soft, and add to first 
part of recipe. Stir well together T\m\ bake in two layers. Put 
these together with boiled frosting flavored with vanilla. Bake 
in square tins. 

WHITE FRUIT CAKE. 
Mrs. C. M. Childs. 
Take one-half of the recipe for angel food, and make two 
white layers; then take one-half of fruit cake recipe for one 
layer. Put the dark layer betw"een the two white ones. To the 
boiled frosting, add one cup seeded raisins chopped fine; spread 
between layers and on top. 

GENTLEMAN'S JELLY CAKE. 

Mrs. Lovett. 

Seven eggs beaten separately, two cups white sugar, one and 
one-half cups butter, two table-spoons water, two cups flour, 
two tea-spoons baking powder, a little salt. 

Jelly. — Take one egg, one cup sugar, three grated apples, one 
lemon. Stir until it boils, then cool before putting on the cake. 

ORANGE CAKE. 
Mrs. G. W. Shoenaker. 
Beat whites of three eggs and yolks of five, separately ; cream 
two cups sugar and one-half cup butter ; add one-half cup cold 
water, two and one-half cups flour, two tea-spoons baking pow- 
der, juice and grated rind of one orange, saving a table-spoon 
of juice for the frosting. 

Filling. — Whites of two eggs, two cups sugar, and the table- 
spoon of orange juice. 



LAYER CAKE. 59 



CREAM CAKE. 

Mrs. p. R. St. John. 

Two cups pswdered sugar, two-thirds cup butter, one-hfilf cup 
tnilk, three cups flour, four e^gg?., one and one-half tea-spoons 
baking powder. Bake in layers and spread with the 

Filling. — One-half pint milk, two small tea-spoons corn starch, 
one egg, one tea-spoon vanilla, one-half cup sugar. Heat the 
milk to boihng, and stir in the corn starch wet with a little cold 
milk; take out a little and mix with the beaten egg and sugar, 
and then return it to the rest of the custard and boil, stirring 
constantly until thick; let it cool before adding the vanilla. 

MAPLE CAKE. 

Miss Maggie Peck. 

Whites of seven eggs, one cup butter, one and one-half cups 
sugar, one-half cup sweet milk, one tea-spoon baking powder ; 
flour. 

Filling. — One cup maple syrup, one tea-spoon sugar; boil until 
it becomes brittle. Pour the boiling syrup into beaten whites 
of two eggs ; beat stiff and pour over the cake. 

VARIETY CAKE. 
Mks J. F. Sleeper. 
Four eggs, one-half cup butter, two cups sugar, one cup milk, 
three cups flour. Take half of the recipe and put some spice, 
molasses and fruit in it. Put the layers together with icing. 

C DC GAMUT CAKE. 

Mrs. Gib. Lane. 

To the well-beaten yolks of six eggs, add two cups powdered 
sugar, three-fourths cfup butter, one cup sweet milk, three and 
one-half cups flour, one level table-spoon soda and two of cream 
tartar. .Whites of four eggs well beaten. Bake in jelly tins. 

Icing. — Grate one cocoanut, beat the whites of four eggs and 
add one tea-cup powdered sugar; mix thoroughly with the 
grated cocoanut, and spread evenly on the layers when cold. 

O OLDEN CREAM CA KE. 

Mrs. W. H. Donovan. 
Cream one cup sugar and one-fourth cup butter; add one-half 
cup sweet milk, the well-beaten whites of three eggs, one and 
one-half cups flour, one-half tea-spoon soda and one tea-spoon 
cream tartar sifted with the flour; bake in three deep jelly tins. 
Beat very light the yolks of two eggs, one cup sugar, and two 
table-spoons rich sweet cream. Flavor with vanilla and spread 
on cakes. 



60 PROGRESSIVE COOK BOOK. 

RIBBON CAKE. 

Mrs. Andrew Campbell. 
Two cups sugar, one cup each of butter and nailk, four scant 
cups flour, four eggs, one-half tea-spoon soda, one tea-spoon 
cream tartar. Beat butter and sugar to a cream and flavor; add 
eggs and milk, mix soda and cream tartar with flour, and beat 
quickly. Put two-thirds of the mixture in two tins and bake; 
to the other one-third add four tea-spoons cinnamon, one cup 
currants, one-eighth pound citron, cut fine. Bake this in one 
tin. Spread jelly or frosting between layers. 

PITTSBURGH CAKE. 

Mrs. J. W. Vaughn. 

Two cups sugar, yolks of three eggs, one cup sweet milk, one 
table-spoon butter, two tea-spoons baking powder. 

Frosting. — Take whites of three eggs and three-fourths pound 
pulverized sugar. 

MA UD S. CAKE. 

Mr.s. J. F. Melchek, Walla-Walla, Wash. 
Two cups each of sugar and butter whipped to a cream; 
whites of five eggs, one cup milk, two and one-half cups flour, 
two tea-spoons baking powder. Sift the flour three times, then 
put in the baking powder, and sift twice more. Grate three 
table-spoons of Baker's chocolate, add a little sugar and dissolve 
in hot milk; then add three table-spoons cake dough in layer 
pans, and drop the chocolate dough through them. Put the 
cake together with cocoanut, flavor with vanilla. 

CREAM CAKE. 
Mrs. H. F. Clement. 
Three eggs, one cup each of sugar and flour, one tea-spoon 
baking powder, one-half cup sweet cream. Bake in jelly tins. 

Filling. — Whip one-half cup thick sweet cream, sweeten and 
flavor. Spread between the layers and on top. 

LEMON CAKE. 

Miss Jennie Kimball. 
Three cups sugar, one cup butter, four eggs, one cup sweet 
milk, one and one-half tea-spoons baking powder, one tea-spoon 
lemon extract. Cream the butter and sugar; add the well-beaten 
yolks of the eggs, then the flour with the baking powder sifted 
into it, then the milk, and lastly the essence. Bake in two 
layers. Beat stiff" the remaining whites, add the juice of one 
small lemon, and enough powdered sugar to make a stiff" icing. 
Spread between the layers. 



LAYER CAKE. 61 



FIG CAKE. 
Mrs. O. F. Goddard 
One cup sugar, one-half cup each of butter and milk, three 
eggs, two cups flour, one tea-spoon baking powder. Boil two 
cups figs until tender, then sweeten, chop fine and spread be- 
tween the layers, and ice the top. 

BANANA CAKE. 
Mrs. Charles Spear. 
Five eggs, one and one-half cups sugar, one cup butter, one- 
half cup sweet milk, two cups flour sifted three times, one level 
tea-spoon baking powder. Bake in layers. 

Filling. — Whip one-half pint cream, three table-spoons sugar ; 
chop six bananas and beat in the cream. Spread between the 
layers. 

FRENCH CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

Mrs. J. E. Free. 
The whites of seven eggs, two cups sugar, two-thirds cup but- 
ter, one cup milk, three cups flour, three tea-spoons baking pow- 
der. The chocolate part of the cake is made just the same, only 
use the yolks of the eggs with a cup of grated chocolate stirred 
mto it. Bake in layers alternating light and dark, then spread 
a custard between them, or boiled icing if preferred. 

CHOCOLATE ICING. 

From "The Ladies' Home Journal." 
Two cups sugar, and just enough water to moisten ; boil until 
clear. Add two cakes grated chocolate and one egg beaten stiff; 
flavor with vanilla and beat until cold. After covering a cake 
with chocolate icing, shell a cup of English walnuts and arrange 
over the top in circles. Daisies may be made by placing one 
with seven around it, at intervals over the cake. Raisms may 
be iced and dried in the oven, then placed upon the chocolate 
if so desired. 

COC OANUT CAKE. 
Mrs. Love Dill, Brooklyn, N. Y. 
Four cups flour, three cups sugar, one cup milk, five eggs 
beaten separately (reserve the whites of three for icing), one 
cup butter, two tea-spoons cream tartar, one tea spoon soda, one- 
half cocoanut grated and put into the cake; the other one-half 
put with the whites of three eggs, and one-half cup powdered 
sugar, with a little orange water or lemon juice for the icing. 
Bake in jelly tins, and spread the icing between layers and on 
top; set in the oven a few minutes. 



62 PROGRESSIVE COOK BOOK. 

WHITE FRUIT CA KE. 
Mrs. W. a. Allen. 

To one cup butter beaten to a cream, add two cups sugar, 
three cups flour in which two tea-spoons baking powder have 
been mixed, and the stiffly beaten whites of six eggs. Bake in 
jelly tins. When done, and while still hot, put between the 
layers this 

Filling. — Chop fine one-fourth pound each of figs, preserved 
ginger, seeded raisins, citron, blanched almonds, and stir them 
into the well-beaten whites of three eggs, one cup powdered 
sugar and the juice of one lemon. Frost the whole quickly. 

HAZEL-NUT CAKE. 

Mils. I. D. O'DONNELL. 

One cup sugar, one egg and yolks of two, one-fourth, cup but- 
ter stirred to a cream, two-thirds cup milk, two cups flour, two 
tea-spoons baking powder. Bake in layers. 

Filling. — One cup each of sugar and thick cream, one cup 
hazel nuts chopped. Boil until like taffy, then spread between 
the layers. 

ICE-CREAM CAKE. 
Mks. J. A. JoHNsxDN, Emporium, Pa. 
One cup butter, two cups sugar, one cup milk, whites of five 
eggs, three tea-spoons baking powder. Bake in layers. 

Filling. — Three small cups sugar dissolved in a little water 
and boiled to a thick syrup; cool a little, and pour over the 
unbeaten whites of three eggs. Beat together one-half hour, and 
spread between the layers. 

FROSTED CREAMS. 

Mrs. W. B. Chrysler. 
Four eggs (reserve the whites of two for frosting), one and 
one hall cups each of molasses and sugar, one cup shortening, 
two and one-half tea-spoons ginger, two tea-spoons soda, one 
cup water, spices to taste. Roll into oblong pieces, bake, and 
frost the top. 

M GLASSES L A YER CA KE. 
Mrs. G. W. Shoemaker. 
One-half cup each of sugar and molasses, two-thirds cup hot 
water, one and one-half cups flour, butter size of an ^^g, one 
<s^^^, one tea-spoon each of soda, vanilla and lemon extracts. 

Filling. — One-half pint milk, one egg, one tea-spoon corn 
starch, one-half cup sugar. Flavor. 



LOAF CAKE. 63 



GELATINE FROSTING. 

Mrs. Love Dill, Bookltn, N. Y. 
One tea-spoon gelatine, two table-spoons cold water; when 
the gelatine is soft, add one table-spoon hot water. When en- 
tirely dissolved, add one cup powdered sugar, and beat while 
yet warm, until white and light; lenoon to taste. This frosts 
one sheet of cake. 

ANGEL FOOD. 

Mrs. J. E. Free. 
Put into tumbler of flour, one tea-spoon cream tartar, then 
sift five times; also sift one and one-half glasses white pow- 
dered sugar. Beat to a stiff froth the whites of eleven eggs ; 
stir the sugar into the eggs by degrees, very lightly and care- 
fully, adding three tea-spoons vanilla. After this, add the flour, 
stirring quickly and lightly ; pour it into a clean tin cake dish 
which should not be buttered or lined. Bake in moderate oven 
forty- five minutes. You can make a layer cake of this by pour- 
ing the above into two cake tins, and spread whipped cream 
between layers and on top. This makes a very nice cake. 

SIX EGG CA KE. 

Mrs. E. S. Holmes. 
Six eggs, one cup butter, two cups sugar, one-half cup milk 
three and one-half cups flour, two tea-spoons cream tartar, one- 
half tea-spoon soda ; flavor. 

NUT CAKE. 
Mrs. J. R. Goss. 
One-half cup granulated sugar, two heaping cups flour, three- 
fourths cup sweet milk, one-half cup butter, whites of five eggs, 
one cup nut meats, two full tea-spoons baking powder. 

CORN STARCH CAKE. 

Mrs. G. W. Shoemaker. 
One cup si]gar, one-half cup each of butter and milk, whites 
of three eggs, one cup flour, one-half cup corn starch, one heap- 
ing tea-spoon baking powder. 

HICKORY-NUT CAKE. 

Mrs. W. a. Allen. 
One cup butter, four eggs, two cups sugar, one-half cup milk, 
two cups flour, one cup each of chopped raisins and hickory- 
nuts, one-half tea-spoon soda, juice of one-half lemon. 



64 PROGRESSIVE COOK BOOK. 

WHIPPED CREAM CAKE. 

Mrs. R. T. Allen. 
One cup sugar, two eggs, two table-spoons softened butter, 
four table-spoons milk. Beat all well together, and add one cup 
flour in which two tea-spoons baking powder has been mixed. 
Bake in rather small square dripping pan. When cake is cool, 
spread with whipped cream, and serve while fresh. 

CREAM SPONGE CAKE. 

Mrs. U. E. Frizelle. 
Put into a bowl one large cup flour, into which one tea-spoon 
cream tartar has been sifted ; one cup powdered sugar, a little 
salt. Then break into the cup that the flour and sugar were 
measured in, two eggs, beat two minutes, then fill the cup with 
sweet cream, add this to flour and sugar in bowl; also one-half 
tea-spoon soda, dissolved in one table-spoon hot water. Beat 
Well, bake quickly and ice top. 

WALNUT CAKE. 

Mrs. C. M. Childs. 
Whites of three eggs beaten to stiff froth, one tea-cup even 
full sugar, one-half cup butter, one tea-cup sweet milk, two and 
one-half cups flour — light measure. Beat butter and sugar to a 
creana, add milk and one tea-spoon salt, then flour; flavor to 
taste. Add two pounds waluuts chopped fine; add eggs last. 

CITRON CAKE. 
Mrs. J. A. Johnston, Emporium. Pa. 
One cup butter, two and one-half cups sugar, one cup sweet 
milk, four cups flour, whites of nine eggs, two heaping tea- 
spoons baking powder. Mix butter and sugar together thor- 
oughly, stir in milk slowly, add beaten whites of eggs, then 
flour and baking powder; flavor with vanilla. Put into cake 
tins a layer of cake, then a layer of citron cut into thin slices. 
Alternate in this way, until all the cake sponge is used. 

PORK CAKE. 
Mrs. Fked Mashaw. 
Three and one-half cups fresh pork chopped fine, two cups 
sour milk, two and one-half cujjs molasses, six cups brown sugar, 
two table-spoons each of ground cloves, cinnamon and allspice, 
fifty cents worth each of seedless raisins and currants, four tea- 
spoons soda, one tea-spoon salt, nine eggs, one-half slice citrou if 
you like, and flour to make rather stiff. Bake each loaf in slow 
oven four or five hours. 



LOAF CAKE, 65 



LADY'S CAKE. 

Mks. S. F. Mills. 
One-half cup butter, one and one-half cups sugar, two cups 
flour, nearly one cup sweet nnilk, one-half tea-spoon soda, one 
tea-spoou cream tartar, whites of four eggs well beaten ; flavor 
with peach or almond. 

A CAKE WITHOUT BUTTER. 

Mrs. a. Hihscu. 
Beat well five eggs, to which add six ounces of flour; flavor 
with bitter almonJ, and if you like, add thin slices of citron. 
Bake in mould in moderate oven. 

CORN STARCH PUFFS. 

Miss Martha Shoemaker. 
One cup sugar, one-half cup butter, one cup corn starch, four 
eggs, two tea-spoons baking powder, flavor with vanilla, and 
^bake in gem tins. Frost them when nearly cold. 

MARBLE CAKE. 

Miss Mattie Murpht. 

White Part. — Whites of four epgs, one cup white sugar, one- 
half cup butter, one-half cup sweet milk, two tea-spoons baking 
powder, one tea-spoon lemon or vanilla, two and one-half cups 
sifted flour. 

Dark Part. — Yolks of four eggs, one cup brown sugar, one- 
half cup cooking molasses, one-half cup sour milk, one tea-spoon 
each of ground cloves, cinnamon and mace, one nutmeg grated 
one tea-spoon soda dissolved in a little sour milk, and add after 
part of flour is stirred in, one and one-half cups sifted flour. 
Drop one spoon at a time of each kind into a well buttered cake 
dish, until all the sponge is used. Drop so the cake will be 
streaked to resemble marble. 

WHITE PUFF CAKE. 

Miss Martha Shoemaker. 
Two cups sugar, one cup each of butter and milk, one pint 
sifted flour, three tea-spoons baking powder. Flavor with al- 
monds, and bake in dripping pan. Put on a thick boiled frost- 
ing, and cut into squares. 

DELICATE CAKE. 

Mrs. E. S. Holmes. 
Whites of four eggs, one cup sweet milk (running over), two 
cups confectioner's sugar, one-half cup butter, two and one-half 
cups flour, one heaping tea-spoon baking powder. 



66 PROGRESSIVE COOK BOOK. 

MARBLE CHOCOLATE CAKE. 
Miss Lulu Browning. 
One-half cup each of butter and milk, two cups flour, one egg, 
one tea-spoon baking powder. Have ready five tea-spoons grated 
chocolate naoistened with vanilla. Stir in a cup of the cake 
mixture, and put in alternate layers. Frost first with white, 
then with chocolate. 

FRUIT CAKE. 

Mrs. H. D. Claflin. 
One cup each of sweet milk and brown sugar, one-half cup 
butter, three cups flour, one-half pound raisins, one cup currants, 
one salt-spoon ground cloves, one tea-spoon cinnamon, one nut- 
meg grated, two eggs, two tea-spoons baking powder, one tea- 
spoon allspice. 

BRIDE'S CAKE. 
Mrs. W. F. Lerot. 
The whites of twelve eggs, three cups sugar, one small cup 
butter, one cup sweet milk, tour small cups flour, one-half cup 
corn starch, two tea-spoons baking powder, lemon to taste. 

COFFEE CAKE. 

Mrs. W. E. Barker. 

One cup each of sugar, molasses and cold coffee, two-thirds 

cup butter, two eggs, four cups flour, one tea-spoon soda, one cup 

raisins, one and one-half cups currants, one tea-spoon nutmeg. 

MOTHER'S FRUIT CAKE. 
Mrs. Paul McCormick. 
Five eggs, one tea-cup butter, two tea-cups sugar, three tea- 
cups flour, one tea-cup each of raisins, currants and milk, one 
tea-spoon soda, two tea-spoons cream tartar, and all kinds of 
spices. 

JELL Y ROLL. 
' Mrs. Wells. 
One cup each of sugar and flour, four eggs, four table-spoons 
water, a little salt. Bake in large bread pan, and when done 
spread with jelly and roll in damp cloth. 

COFFEE CAKE. 
Miss Bertha Crowe. 
One cup butter, two cups sugar, four eggs, one tea-spoon soda, 
one large cup strong coffee, two cups each of raisins and cur- 
rants, two tea-spoons cinnamon, one tea-spoon each of cloves 
and allspice. Thicken with flour like fruit cake. 



LOAF CAKE. 67 



SPONGE CAKE. 
Mrs. Paul McCormick. 
One cup each of sifted sugar and flour, and one level tea- 
spoon baking powder, all sifted together. Make a hollow in the 
center, and break four eggs into it, also four table-spoons water, 
and one tea-spoon vanilla extract. Stir all together quickly, and 
bake in moderate oven. This recipe baked in two layers, with 
whipped cream between and on top, is very nice. 

DOLLY VARDEN CAKE. 
Mrs. B. W. Toole. 
White Part. — One cup sugar, one-half cup each of butter and 
milk, one and one-half cups flour, one tea-spoon yeast powder, 
whites of three eggs. 

Dark Part. — One-half cup each of molasses, sugar and coffee, 
one tea-spoon soda, yolks of three eggs, one cup each of raisins 
and currants, one-fourth pound citron, one-half cup butter; spices 
to taste. 

CREAM PUFFS. 

Mrs. F. B. Conollt. 

Boil with one large cup water, one-half tea-cup butter. Stir 
into this while boiling, one tea-cup flour. Let cool, then stir in 
four eggs, one at a time, without beating. Drop on tins and 
bake in fairly hot oven. 

Cream. — Beat together three table-spoons flour, one egg, one- 
third cup sugar. Stir into it one-half pint milk while boiling ; 
flavor with vanilla. 

SUNSHINE CAKE. 

Mrs. J. W. Fish. 
Whites of eleven eggs, yolks of six, one and one-half tea-cups 
granulated sugar, (measured after one sifting,)" one tea-cup flour, 
(measured after one s fting,) one tea-spoon flavoring. Beat whites 
of eggs to stiff froth, and stir in gradually, first the cream tartar, 
then the sugar ; beat the yolks and add to them the whites, 
sugar and flavoring; finally stir in flour. Mix quickly and well. 
Bake in slow oven, in angel cake tins. 

POUND CAKE. 
Mrs. Barth. 
One pound each of butter and powdered sugar, one d^zen 
eggs beaten separately, four pounds flour; cream butter and 
sugar together with your hand, add yolks, then whites of eggs. 
Take wooden spoon asd beat well; add flour last, with tea-spoon 
baking powder; flavor with vanilla. 



68 PROGRESSIVE COOK BOOK. 

NEW YEAR'S MARBLE CAKE. 
Miss Ruth Mills. 

White Part. — Whites of foar eggs, one cup white sugar, one- 
half cup each of butter and sweet millc, two tea-spoons baking 
powder, one tea-spoon vanilla, and two and one-half eups flour. 

Dark Part. — Yolks of four eggs, one cup brown sugar, one- 
half cup each of molasses, butter and sour milk, one tea-spoon 
each of cloves, cinnamon, mace, soda and nutmeg, one and one- 
half cups sifted flour. Put into the cake dish alternately, first 
light part and then dark. 

CUP CAKE. 
Miss Maggie Botkin. 
Five eggi^, three cups sugar, one cup each of milk, butter and 
flour, one- half tea-spoon soda. Bake in slow oven half an hour. 

WHITE CAKE. 

Mrs. S. R. Salsbokt. 
One cup butter, two cups sugar, one cup sweet milk, three 
cups flour, whites of five eggs well beaten, two tea-spoons baking 
powder. To use this for marble cake, take the yolks of the 
eggs, follow same rule, add one-half tea-spoon cloves, and one 
tea-spoon cinnamon. Be sure to stir the cake to equal thick- 
ne.«s in the batter. 

BOSTON CREAM PUFFS. 

Mrs. W. H. Donovan. 

Put one-half pint hot water and two-thirds cup butter over the 
fire; when boiling stir in one and one-half cups flour, and con- 
tinue stirring until smooth and the mixture leaves the sides of 
the sauce-pan ; remove from the fire, cool, and bent into it five 
well-beaten eggs. Drop on warm greased tins, one table-spoon 
in a place, leaving space between to prevent touching; brush 
over with the white of an egg, and bake ten or fifteen minutes 
in quick oven. W^hen the cakes are done they will be hollow. 
When cold slice off the top, fill space with cream and replace top. 

Cream. — Take one pint milk, place one-half in a tin pail and 
set in boiling water; reserve from the other one-half, two table- 
spoons to mix with the eggs, and into the rest while cold, mix 
one cup flour until smooth. When the milk is hot, stir in the 
flour and let it boil thicker than boiled custard; then beat two 
eggs with the two table-spoons milk, one cup granulated sugar 
a level tea-spoon butter, and one tea-spoon vanilla or lemon. 
Continue stirring until it is so thick it will drop from the spoon 
when cold, and not pour from it. 



LOAF CAKE. 69 



PLAIN CAKE. 
Mrs. C. H. Sabin. 
Break two eggs into a tea-cup, and fill it with thick sour 
cream ; one cup sugar, one and one-half eups flour, one-half tea- 
spoon each of soda and salt; flavor with vanilla. 

SNOW CAKE. 
Miss Ella Mills. 
One-half tea-cup butter, one tea-cup sugar, one and one-half 
tea-cups flour, one-half cup sweet milk, whites of four eggs, one 
tea-spoon baking powder; flavor with lemon. 

FRUIT CAKE. 
Mrs. R. K. Babcock. 
One and one-half cups molasses, one cup each of sugar and 
sour milk, one tea-spoon soda, two tea-spoons ginger, one tea- 
spoon each of cinaamon and nutmeg, one and one-half cups each 
of raisins and currants, one-half cup each of citron and butter, 
flour enough to stiffen. Bake two hours. 

SPICE CAKE. 
Mrs. G. C. Stull. 
Three eggs, two cups sugar, three cups flour, one-half cup but- 
ter, one cup sour cream, one tea-spoon soda, two tea-spoons each 
of cloves, ginger, allspice and cmnamon. 

APPLE CAKE. 
Mrs. W. F. Leeot. 
Soak two cups dried apples over night. In the morning dram 
and chop fine; add one cup molasses and let it boil slowly on 
back of stove three or four hours, and add one and one-half 
cups brown sugar, one cup butter, one-half cup sour milk, one 
tea-spoon each of cloves, allspice, cinnamon and soda, three eggs, 
three and one-half cups flour. Bake in two square tins or one 
five quart basin; if in the latter, bake two hours. 

SIX MONTHS CAKE. 

Miss Martha Shoemaker. 
Four eggs, four cups flour, one pound raisins, two cups sugar, 
one cup molasses, one and one-half pounds butter, one cup milk, 
one tea-spoon soda, and two tea-spoons all kinds of spices. 



70 PROGRESSIVE COOK BOOK. 



«<GOOKIES, GRdLLERS, ETO 



CHOICE COOKIES. 

Mrs. J. F. Sleeper. 
Two eggs, two cups sugar, one cup butter, one-third cup 
sweet milk, two tea-spoons cream tartar, one tea-spoon soda, 
one-half tea-spoon nutmeg; flour. 

OINOER COOKIES. 

Mrs. R. R. Crowe. 
One cup each of sugar and butter, three eggs, one cup sour 
milk, one tea-spoon soda, one cup molasses, one table-spoon gin- 
ger; flour. 

SOFT GINGER BREAD. 

Mrs. W. E. Barker. 
One cup each of sorghum, sugar and lard, one table-spoon 
each of ginger and cinnamon, one cup sour milk, one tea-spoon 
soda, two eggs, and enough flour to stiffen. 

DOUGHN UTS. 

Mrs. p. R. St. John 

One egg, one cup each of sugar and sour milk, one tea-spoon 

soda in the milk, butter size of a hickory-nut, a little each of 

salt and nutmeg, two tea-spoons baking powder in the flour. 

Fry brown and roll in powdered sugar when nearly cold. 

NO MATTER CAKE. 
Mrs. C. H. Sabin. 
The whites of one egg beaten to a stiff froth, pinch of salt, 
and enough flour to roll thin. Cut with any kind of cake cut- 
ter, fry in hot lard, and immediately sprinkle with sugar. 

LANCASTER COUNTY GINGER BREAD. 

, Mr.s. J. P. Sleeper. 

One pint each of molasses and buttermilk, butter size of an 
egg, one table-spoon each of ginger, cloves and soda, a little salt 
and three pints of flour. 

GINGER COOKIES. 

Miss Lulu Browning. 
One pint syrup, one cup each of sugar and lard, one and one- 
half cups sour milk, one-half ounce ginger, a rounding tea-spoon 
soda, one-half tea-spoon salt. Mix with flour until stiff, then 
roll thin. 



COOKIES, CRULLERS, ETC. 71 

COOKIES. 
Mrs. F. B. Conollt. 
One cup butter, two cups sugar, five table-spoons milk, two 
eggs, one tea-spoon cinnamon, three tea-spoons baking powder. 
Do not make too stiff. 

GINGER PUFFS. 
Mrs. M. J. Crampton. 
Mix together one cup each of sugar, molasses and cold water, 
one-half cup shortening, five cups flour, one tea-spoon each of 
ginger and saleratus, one tea-spoon cloves or cinnamon, a little 
salt. After ingredients are well mixed, drop from a spoon por- 
tions of the dough as large as an egg upon greased pans, one 
inch apart. Bake in quick oven. 

SOFT GINGER BREAD. 
Mrs. H. M. Allen. 
N One cup each of molasses and brown sugar, one-half cup but- 
ter or lard, one cup milk, three and one-half cups flour, two 
eggs, one tea-spoon ginger, two tea-spoons baking powder. Put 
molasses, lard, sugar and ginger on the stove and let come to a 
boil, and when cool, add eggs and other ingredients. 

GINGER SNAPS. 
Mrs. G. C. Stull. 
One cup sugar, two cups molasses, one cup butter and lard 
mixed, one table-spoon ginger, one cup boiling water, two tea- 
spoons soda, pinch of salt. Mix sugar and butter first, then add 
other ingredients. 

CHOCOLATE GINGER BREAD. 

Maria Parloa. 
Mix in a large bowl one cup molasses, one-half cup sour milk 
or cream, one tea-spoon each of ginger and cinnamon, one-half 
tea-spoon salt. Dissolve one tea-spoon soda in a little cold water; 
add this and two table-spoons melted butter to mixture. Then 
stir in two cups sifted flour, and finally add two ounces Baker's 
chocolate and one table-spoon butter melted together. Pour mix- 
ture into three well buttered deep tin plates, and bake in mod- 
erate oven twenty minutes. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

Mrs. Henry Terrell. 
Three eggs, one table-spoon melted butter, one cup sour milk, 
one-half cup sugar, one tea-spoon soda. Flavor to taste. Mix 
stifFer than for cake. Drop from a spoon into hot lard. 



PROGKESSIYE COOK BOOK. 



SUGAR COOKIES. 
Mrs. H. M. Allen. 
One cup each of sugar, butter and sour milk, one tea-spoon 
soda. Mix soft; roll thin with sugar on top. 

CHOCOLATE WAFERS. 
Maria Pakloa. 
Grate four ounces W. Baker's chocolate and mix with it two 
table-spoons flour and one-fourth tea-spoon each of cloves, cin- 
namon and baking powder. Separate six eggs. Add one cup 
powdered sugar to the yolks and beat until very light; then add 
juice and grated rind of one lemon, and beat five minutes. 
Then add the dry mixture, and with a spoon, lightly cut in the 
whites. Pour mixture into buttered shallow pans about one-half 
inch thick. Bake in a moderate oven one hour. When cool, 
spread a thin layer of currant jelly over one sheet, and place 
the other on top. Use vanilla icing, and when it hardens, cut 
into squares. Particularly nice with ice cream. 

CR ULLERS. 
Mrs. M. J. Crampton. 
Two cups sugar, two eggs, one and one-half cups water, but- 
ter size of an egg. Flavor to taste. Mix stiff enough to roll. 

DOUGHNUTS. 
Mrs. R. R. Crowe. 
Two cups sugar, one table-spoon butter, three eggs well beaten, 
one and one-half cups milk, one-half nutmeg, four tea-spoons 
baking powder; flour stiff enough to roll. 

C OCOANUT DROPS. 

From "Parlor and Kitchen." 
Two cups cocoanut, one cup sugar, one table-spoon flour, white 
of one egg beaten stiff. Drop on buttered paper and sift sugar 
over them. Bake fifteen minutes. 

RING JUMBLES. 

Marion Harland. 
Three-fourths pound butter, one pound sugar, four eggs, one 
pound flour, small wine glass rose water. Cream the butter and 
sugar, add yolks, then rose water, next one-half the flour; lastly 
the whites stirred in the remaining flour. Line a shallow pan 
with greased paper, and with a table-spoon of dough form reg- 
ular rings, leaving a hole in the center of each. Bake quickly 
and sift sugar over them. Can substitute lemon or vanilla for 
rose water. 



COOKIES, CRULLERS, ETC. 73 

SOFT GINGER BREAD. 

Mrs. H. W. Rowley. 
One egg, one cup molasses, one-half cup melted butter, one 
tea-spoon each of soda and gingfer ; stir in two cups flour, and 
one cup cold water last. Bake slowly. 

MERINGUE KISSES. 
Mrs. Love Dill, Brooklyn, N. Y. 
Beat whites of four eggs until very stiff, beat in gradually one 
pound powdered sugar, one tea-spoon at a time, eight drops 
essence of lemon, beating the whole very hard ; lay a sheet of 
wet paper on bottom of pan. Drop on a little of the meringue 
and jelly to taste. With a large spoon pile on the meringue 
over each lump of jelly. Set in a warm oven ; when slightly 
colored, they are done. Take out, place bottoms together, lay 
on a sieve, and dry in a warm oven until the bottoms stick and 
form a ball. 

GINGER SNAPS. 

Mrs. Love Dill, Brooklyn, N. Y. 
Two cups molasses, one cup lard, one table-spoon ginger, one 
table-spoon saleratus dissolved in a little hot water; fiour enough 
to roll thin. 



PBOOKBSSIVE COOK BOOK. 



FRair.N- 



TO PRESERVE FRUIT. 
Mrs. Henrt Terrell. 
One ounce of salycilic acid dissolved in two gallons warm wa- 
ter with six pounds granulated sugar. See that all is dissolved, 
then add two gallons more cold water and mix well. Take sound 
fruit, clean well, and pack closely in jars ; pour liquid over fruit 
until well covered, then set in cool place and it will keep until 
used. For preserves, sweet pickles, and apple butter, one table- 
spoon of the liquid to the gallon. 

ORANGES FILLED WITH JELLY. 

Mrs. Philip M. Gallaber. 
Select large oranges, and trom top of each remove with sharp 
knife, piece the size of a quarter of a dollar ; with the handle 
of tea-spoon, take out pulp, being careful not to break rinds, 
and throw them into cold water. Press juice from pulp, strain, 
put juice and isinglass (allow one ounce isinglass to six oranges) 
over fire ; stir constantly and boil four or five minutes. Color 
half the jelly bright rose color with red currant or cranberry 
jelly. Drain and wipe rinds, and when jelly is cold, fill with 
alternate strips of the two colored jellies. When perfectly cold 
cut into quarters with very sharp knife, and arrange tastefully 
in a glass dish. This makes a beautiful ornamental dish for the 
dinner table. 

PLUM BUTTER. 

Mrs. R. 11. Crowe. 
One peck plums (wild, if possible), oue-half bushel sweet ap- 
ples; cook apples and plums in separate vessels with small quan- 
tity of water. When soft, put them through coarse sieve, and 
to each pound of pulp, allow three-fourths pound sugar. Cook 
until thick as apple butter, perhaps two hours. 

COMPOTE OF APPLES. 
From "The Delineator." 
Place one cup each of water and sugar in a pan. Pare and 
core eight or ten apples, or as many as you can easily place in 
the dish. Cook them in the syrup uniil soft, but not mashed. 
When cold put one spoon of jelly with each apple and serve 
with whipped cream. 



FRUIT. 75 

APPLES SMOTHERED IN JELLY. 
Mrs. M. J. Crampton. 
Select tart, juicy apples ; pare and remove cores with corer. 
Place them in saucepan with boiling water, half enough to cover 
them, puttmg one table-spoon white sugar into each apple. Cook 
until they are well done, but retain their form; remove to dish 
from which they will be served. To the juice, add sugar in 
the proportion of one-half cup to one-half pint of juice ; pour 
jelly over them. If a few pieces of apple peel be stewed in the 
juice, then removed, it will give a nice color to tlie jelly. 

GRAPE JELL Y. 
Mrs. Philip M. Gallaher. 
Wash grapes the evening before making the jelly, to be sure 
they are perfectly dry before cooking them. Pick small bunches 
from main stem, put them in porcelain kettle and cook very soft ; 
-turn into a flannel bag to drain. To one pint of juice, add one 
pint sugar, and boil twenty minutes. Never jelly a larger quan- 
tity than one pint in the same vessel at the same time. 

PRESERVED GREEN TOMATOES. 

Mrs. F. S. Mills. 
Take one lemon, one pound light brown sugar to one pound 
green tomatoes; grate rind of the lemon, pare off the thick 
part, which is not to be used ; slice thinly and remove all seeds. 
Scald and peel the tomatoes ; put water enough with the sugar 
to dissolve it, and when boiling, remove scum and add toma- 
toes. Cook slowly for two hours. 

PRESERVED CITRON. 

Mrs. G. W. Shoemaker. 
Do not quite cover citron with water; boil one hour; strain, 
and use as much sugar as citron. Make a moderate syrup; put 
in two lemons to one pound citron; boil twenty minutes, strain, 
make a thick syrup, and turn it on the citron. 

PRESERVED FIGS. 

Mrs. Philip M. Gallauer. 
Select fine, large, white figs, as nearly as possible of equal rijie. 
ness ; peel and weigh them. Boil slowly until tender, but not 
broken; take them out with care and lay on platters. Throw 
away the liquor and prepare a thick syrup of sugar, as many 
pounds as of fruit; boil well and skim. Put in figs and cook 
slowly until transparent; when nearly done put in a few slices 
of lemon. Put in glass jars. 



PROGRESSIVE COOK BOOK. 



PRESERVED BLACKBERRIES. 
Mrs. Barth. 
Mash berries before preserving, using one pound sugar to one 
pound of berries. 

PENNSYLVANIA APPLE BUTTER. 
Mrs F. S. Mills. 
Pare, core and quarter three barrels of nice, ripe, sweet ap- 
ples. Boil down two barrels of new cider to one-half that quan- 
tity ; then add apples to cider. Proceed with the boiling, keep 
constantly stirring. It should boil until quite thick. Add one- 
fourth pound ground allspice. Let cool and it is ready for jars. 

CRANBERRY JELLY. 
From "The Ladies' Home Journal." 
Wash one quart cranberries, put them in, pan with one-half 
pint water and one-half pound white sugar. Boil twenty min- 
utes, and press through strainer into a mould. When cool, this 
should form a perfect mould of bright crimson jelly. 



PICKLES. 



«PI0KLES.>»! 



TO MAKE VINEGAR. 
Mrs. M. J. Ceampton. 

To one gallon rain water, add one pint brown sugar or mo- 
lasses, and one pint eorn, off the cob. Put into a jar covered 
with cloth. Set in the sun, and in three weeks it will be good 
vinegar. 

Another. — To one gallon water add one pound sugar, a small 
pint hop yeast; sponge, and let it get light as for bread; boil 
one pint corn until tender. When cool, pour all together into 
an open keg. In three weeks it will be good vinegar. 

FRENCH MUSTARD. 
'' Mr8. J. F. Sleeper. 

One drachm each of ground cloves and allspice, one ounce 
white sugar, three ounces mustard, two ounces wheat flour. Boil 
in sufficient vinegar to make a paste. 

CHILLI SA UCE. 

Mrs. B. Woods. 
Fifteen pounds ripe tomatoes peeled and chopped, one and 
one-half pounds brown sugar, one pint vinegar, two large onions 
chopped very fine, one tea-cup salt, four red peppers, one ounce 
each of black and white pepper, cloves, cinnamon. Cook thor- 
oughly. 

GREEN TOMATO PICKLE. 
Mrs. Lovett. 
Pare green tomatoes and chop very fine; add some salt. Stir 
thoroughly and put in a colander to drain, then cook in clear 
water until tender. 

Pickle. — Three pounds sugar, one pint vinegar, one pint water, 
if the vinegar is very strong, one ounce each of cloves and cin- 
namon, few green peppers. This is for seven pounds of fruit. 

SWEET PEAR PICKLE. 

Mrs. Philip M. Gallaher. 
To one pint good vinegar, take four pounds brown sugar, one- 
fourth pound each of cinnamon stick and cloves. Tie the spices 
in small bags, and boil with sugar and vinegar until a good 
syrup is formed. Put in Bartlett or Sickle pears; place on back 
of stove. Cover closely and cook very slowly until they can be 
pierced through with a straw. 



78 PROGRESSIVE COOK BOOK. 

T 021 A TO CATSUP. 
Mrs. R. R. Crowe. 
Fifty pounds ripe tomatoes, five onioas, three pints vinegar, 
sugar and Cayenne pepper to taste. Boil to tiae consistency of 
catsup. 

WATER MELON PICKLE. 

Mrs. C. M. Childs. 
Pare off green part of rind, and the red at core; cut into 
pieces one or two inches in length, place in kettle in the pro- 
portion of one gallon rind, two heaping tea-spoons salt, and 
water to nearly cover. Boil until tender enough to pick into 
pieces with a fork; pour into colander to drain, and dry a few 
pieces at a time, pressing with a towel. To one quart cider 
vinegar, put three pints sugar; boil, skim, and pour boiling hot 
over the fruit, repeating each day until the fruit is the same color 
all through, and the syrup is like thin molasses. Put the melon 
into a jar, sprinkle bits (stick) cinnamon and a few cloves over 
it; add another layer of fruit, then spices, until the jar is full- 
Scald the syrup each morning for three days, and pour boiling 
hot over the fruit. Put in the melon and boil twenty minutes, 
then put into a jar and pour the s-yrup over it. If a scum rises, 
drain. Then add the melon, and boil until the syrup is thin, 
like molasses. 

PICKLED CABBAGE. 

Mrs. J. A. Johnston, Emporium, Pa. 
Halve and quarter twenty-five small heads cabbage, lay them 
in a wooden tray ; sprinkle thickly with salt, and set in the 
cellar until next day. Drain and wipe dry, lay in the sun for 
two hours, cover with cold vinegar for twelve hours ; season 
with equal parts of mace, cloves and whole white peppers, one 
cup sugar to every gallon vinegar, and one tea-spoon celery seed 
for every pint. Pack the cabbage in a stone jar ; boil the vin- 
egar and spices five minutes, and pour on the cabbage hot. Set 
away in cool, dry place for six weeks. 

CHOPPED PICKLES. 

Mrs. W. B. Chrvsler. 
One-half bushel green tomatoes chupped fine, one dozen each 
of onions and peppers; sprinkle over with one pint salt, and let 
stand over night. In the morning, cover with vinegar and cook 
slowly one hour; drain again and add two pounds sugar, two 
table-spoons each of cinnamon and cloves. Cover with cold 
vinegar. 



PICKLES. 79 

CHIPPED PEARS. 

Mrs. G. W. Shoemaker. 
Ten pounds pears, eight pounds sugar, three lemons — grate and 
put in the juice. Pare the pears and chip as you would pota- 
toes. Put all together and clear, then can them hot. 

CHILLI SA UCE. 
Mrs. R. R. Crowe. 
Fifty pounds ripe tomatoes, sixteen onions, two quarts vine- 
gar, one tea-spoon cinnamon ; sugar and red pepper to taste. 
MIXED PICKLES. 

Mrs. R. T. Ai.len. 
Three hundred small cucumbers, four large green peppers sliced 
fine, two large heads cauliflower, three heads white cabbage 
shredded fine, nine large onions sliced, one quart small string 
beans cut into inch pieces, one quart small green tomatoes sliced. 
Put all in a strong brine for twenty-four hours, drain three 
hours, then sprinkle in one-fourth pound each of blacii and white 
mustard seed, one table-spoon black pepper. Let the whole 
come to a boil in just enough vinegar to cover, with a little alum 
put in. Drain, and when cold, mix one pint ground mustard 
and put in. Cover the whole with good cider vinegar. 

SPICED TOMATOES. 

Mrs. Philip M. Gallaher. 

For seven pounds tomatoes, take three and one-half pounds 

sugar, one pint strong vinegar, one table-spoon whole cloves, and 

three sticks cinnamon. Boil thirty-five minutes; put sugar and 

vinegar on to boil; remove skins from tomatoes and drop in. 

SOUR TOMATOES. 

Mrs. S. R. Miller. 
One-half dozen large cucumbers, one-half ounce each of black 
and white pepper, three pods red peppers; peel and split the 
cucumbers (scrape out seeds), sprinkle a little salt on them and 
let stand for two hours. Dry them with a cloth. Boil together 
vinegar and peppor and pour boiling hot over the cucumbers. 
FRENCH PICKLES. 

Mrs. R. T. Hanna. 
Fifteen pounds green tomatoes sliced, six large onions sliced; 
throw over these one tea-cup salt and Ipt stand over night. In 
the morning drain thoroughly, scald fifteen minutes in one quart 
vinegar and two quarts water; drain, then take four quarts 
vinegar, two pounds brown sugar, one-half pound mustard seed, 
two table-spoons each of cinnamon, cloves, allspice, ginger and 
ground mustard. Put all together and boil fifteen minutes. 



PROGRESSIVE COOK BOOK. 



TOMATO CATSUP. 

Mrs. W. H. Donovan. 
Take one bushel firm, ripe tomatoes; wipe them nicely with 
a damp cloth, cut out cores and put in a porcelain kettle. Place 
over fire and pour over them three pints water; throw in two 
handfuls peach leaves with ten or twelve onions cut fine. Boil 
until tomatoes are done, which will take about two hours. 
Strain through a coarse sieve, pour liquid back into kettle, and 
add one-half gallon good cider vinegar. Have ready two ounces 
each of ground .«pice, black pepper and mustard, one ounce 
ground cloves, two grated nutmegs, two pounds light brown 
sugar, and one pint salt. Mix these ingredients well before put- 
ting into boiler, then boil two hours, stirring continually ; add 
Cayenne pepper if you like. When cool, fill bottles, cork and 
seal. Keep in cool, dry place. 

HI G DEN PICKLES. 

Mrs. E. S. Holmes. 
One-half bushel green tomatoes chopped fine, one dozen onions, 
one dozen peppers, sprinkle with one pint salt and let stand 
over night. In the morning, drain, cover with vinegar and cook 
slowly one hour; drain again and add two table-spoons each of 
ground cinnamon and cloves, two pounds sugar, one-half cup 
mustard. Cover with cold vinegar. 

CUCUMBER CATSUP. 

Mrs. W. H. Donovan. 
Three dozen cucumbers, and eighteen onions peeled and 
chop23ed fine; sprinkle over them three-fourths pint salt. Put 
the whole in a sieve and let drain over night; add one tea-cup 
mustard seed, one-half tea-cup ground black pepper. Mix well, 
and cover with good cider vinegar. 

PICKLED GREEN TOMATOES AND ONIONS. 
Mrs. Paul McCorsiick. 
Chop one peck green tomatoes and one-half peck onions. Let 
stand two days in layers of salt. Bring to boiling point just 
enough vinegar to cover. Put in vegetables mixed with one 
ounce each of cloves and allspice, two ounces white mustard 
seed, five large red peppers. When well scalded, put in jars. 

PICALLILO. 
Mrs. L. M. Birelt. 
Take equal parts tomatoes and cabbage, and chop very fine ; 
white mustard and celery seeds in the proportion of one table- 
spoon of each to one gallon of vegetables, one table-spoon salt, 
one-half tea-cup sugar. Cover with vinegar. 



PICKLES. 81 

CURRANT CATSUP. 

Mrs. Philip M. Gallaher, 
Five pounds currants, three pounds sugar, one pint vinegar, 
one table-spoon each of allspice, cinnamon, and cloves, one-half 
table-spoon each of salt and pepper. Boil two hours over slow fire. 

CHO W CHO W. 
Mrs. a. J. Wilkinson. 
One quart large cucumbers, peeled and cut into strips length- 
wise, one quart small cucumbers used as whole pickles, one quart 
small onions, one quart green tomatoes sliced, one large cauli- 
flower separated into small pieces, six green peppers quartered. 
Put in a weak brine and let stand twenty-four hours. Scald in 
the same brine and drain. 

Paste — to pour over after scalding: Six table-spoons mustard, 
one table-spoon tumeric, one and one-half cups sugar, one cup 
,flour, two quarts vinegar. Scald a few minutes, stirring con- 
stantly ; turn over the pickles and bottle. 

SWEET PICKLES. 

Mus. J. F. Sleeper. 
Three pounds sugar, one-half pint vinegar, spices to taste. 
Boil the syrup and pour over seven pounds of fruit. 

GRAPE CATSUP. 
Mrs. J. A. Johnston, Emporium, Pa . 
Five pounds grapes, boil, strain through sieve, and add three 
pounds sugar, two table-spoons all kinds spice, and two-thirds 
tea-spoon Cayenne pepper. Boil to the consistency of catsup. 

EARLY PICKLE. 
Mrs. Rachel Stephenson. 
Take small cucumbers off the vine and put in salt water over 
night. Boil vinegar, sugar and spices, and pour over cucumbers. 
Put up either air tight or in jars and they will keep green. 

WATERMELON PICKLE. 

Mrs. L. M. Birblt. 
Cut rind and red parts off the melon, cut into one or two inch 
pieces. Take three pints sugar to one gallon melon. Put the 
melon in vinegar, sugar and spices, and cook to a nice syrup. 

CHILLI SA UCE. 

Mrs. H. M. Allen. 

Twelve large ripe tomatoes, t%vo onions, two red peppers; chop 

very fine and add one coffee-cup vinegar, two table-spoons 

sugar, one table-spoon each of salt and ground cinnamon, one 

tea-spoon cloves. Boil slowly two and one-half hours. 



82 PROGRESSIVE COOK BOOK. 



■=NGeNrEGTIONERY.>» 



CARAMEL FOR COLORING. 
Mrs. G. W. Shoemaker. 
One cup sugar, one-fourth cup water; let boil until syrup 
begins to change color, then watch it carelully ; tilt saucepan 
from all sides so it may get equally brown. The moment it is 
nearly all black, put to it one cup boiling water. Let boil until 
it is all dissolved like very dark syrup. One tea-spoon of this 
will make a fine color to gravy, syrup, cake and custard. 

CHOCOLATE CANDY. 

Mrs. Philip M. Gallaher. 
Two large cups brown sugar, one large tea-spoon butter, one- 
half cup water, one large cup grated chocolate. Pour thin upon 
buttered plates, and when nearly cold, score into squares. 

FRENCH CREAM CANDY. 
Mrs. M. J. Crampton. 
Break whites of two eggs into bowl and beat slightly; add one- 
half tumbler cold water, sift and stir in enough confectioner's 
sugar to make paste stiff enough to mould into shapes with fin- 
gers. This is the basis of all cream candy made without boiling. 

PEPPERMINT DROPS. 

Miss Bertha Crowe. 
Two cups sugar, one cup boiling water; boil eight minutes 
without stirring. When taken from the dish, add eight drops 
oil of peppermint, then beat with a spoon about five minutes, 
or UHtil it is white and thick, then drop on buttered papers soon 
as possible. 

ICE-CREAM CANDY. 
Mrs. Philip M. Gallaher. 
Three cups granulated sugar, one and one-half cups water, 
one-half cup vinegar. Boil until it hardens in water (not too 
hard), put in piece of butter size of a walnut, and one tea-spoon 
vanilla. Pour in buttered plates to cool, then pull until white. 
Do not stir while cooking. 

CHOCOLATE CARAMELS. 
Mrs. J. P. Sleeper. 
One cup each of chocolate, milk, sugar and molasses, a little 
butter. 



CONFECTIONERY. 83 



MAPLE CREAMS. 

Mrs. J. E. Free. 
One cup brown sugar, one cup syrup, one-half cup cream, one 
table-spoon butter, one tea-spoon vanilla. Boil all together until 
it begins to harden in cold water; take off the stove and stir 
until it becomes a waxen substance; then make into balls and 
put halves of English walnuts on either side. Put on buttered 
plates to cool. 

CHOCOLATE SYRUP. 
Maria Parloa. 
Into a granite saucepan put one ounce Baker's chocolate, 
and gradually pour on it one-half pint water, stirring all the 
time. Place over the fire and stir until the chocolate is dis- 
solved ; then add one pint granulated sugar and stir until it be- 
gins to boil. Cook for three minutes longer, stram, and when 
cool, add one table-spoon vanilla. Bottle aud keep in cool place. 

POP-CORN BALLS. 
Miss Hattik Babcock. 
Pop as much corn as desired and pick over carefully, taking 
out all grains burned or not popped. Put on the stove in a pan, 
about one pint syrup and three large spoons sugar, to a dozen 
balls, and cook until it becomes a little brittle when put in cold 
water. Pour syrup over the corn, grease your hands with butter, 
and immediately make into balls. Use fancy or honey drips for 
the syrup. 

FRENCH CHOCOLATE CREAMS. 
Mrs. J. W. Fish. 
Two cups granulated sugar, one-half cup milk or water, boil 
hard five minutes; flavor with vanilla. Stir briskly until it 
creams sufiicient to mould into sizes desired. Dissolve Baker's 
chocolate over steam, then drop in, one at a time; until covered 
with chocolate Lay on platter to dry. 

MOLASSES CANDY. 
Mrs. Lovk Dill, Brooklyn, N. Y. 
One pint molasses, one pint peanuts, lump of butter size of a 
walnut, one cup sugar (granulated preferreil), one tea-spoon soda. 
Boil molasses until it ropes slightly, then add sugar and butter, 
cook until done, then add the peanuts and soda; stir quickly 
and immediately pour upon buttered plates. The peanuts should 
be cut up or powdered. 



84 PROGRESSIVE COOK BOOK. 

MOLASSSES CANDY. 

Mrs. J. W. Vaughn. 

One quart molasses, one-fourth pound each of butter and 

brown sugar, two table-spoons lemon extract. Let the molasses 

boil, put in sugar, when half done, put in the butter and boil 

one hour. Add the lemon when taken from stove. 

WHITE CANDY. 

Miss Love Crampton. 
One quart granulated sugar, one pint water, two table-spo'ons 
vinegar. Boil like molasses candy, but do not stir it. When 
it becomes brittle in cold water, it is done. Pull same as mo- 
lasses candy. 



FROZEN DESSERTS. 85 



<^rROZEN DESSERTS.**- 



ICE CREAM. 

Mrs. J. E. Free. 
For a four quart freezer. Three quarts cream, if it is thin ; if 
thick, two quarts cream and one quart milk. Make quite sweet, 
and any flavor desired. If strawberry flavoring is used, take 
one quart berries, mash very fine, and sweeten before putting 
into the freezer. If banana is desired, mash and strain through 
a cloth. 

ICE CREAM WITH GELATINE. 
From "Highland Brand Booklet." 
One pint Highland Brand evaporated cream, one quart milk 
eight eggs, one and one-half cups sugar, one-fourth box gelatine 
soaked in one-half cup cold milk; heat remainder of milk and 
cream, beat eggs until creamy, add. sugar and beat again, and 
add the hot cream; then put into a boiler and stir constantly 
until it thickens ; add the soaked gelatine, and more sugar if not 
sweet enough; strain, and set away to cool. When cold, flavor 
and freeze. 

WATER ICE. 
Mrs. J. E. Free. 

To one quart strained juice of any fruit, add two quarts water, 
three pounds sugar, and freeze. 

ORANGE ICE. 
Mrs. Philip M. Gallaheb. 
The juice of six oranges and two lemons, mixed with one 
pint cold water in which has been dissolved one quart sugar ; 
freeze like ice cream, 

COMPOTE OF ORANGES. 
One dozen oranges, one jjound sugar, juice of one-fourth 
lemon, and one gill water. Boil water and sugar five minutes, 
skim and add lemon juice. Peel and cut oranges into halves 
lengthwise; dip a few pieces at a time into the syrup, and lay 
them on a flat dish (treat all the same), pour syrup over them 
and set on ice to cool. When ready to serve, place the pudding 
on a dish, and heap the oranges and syrup on top and around. 



PROGRESSIVE COOK BOOK. 



ORA PE ICE. 
From " The Ladies' Home Journal." 
One cup ripe Concord grapes, one pound sugar, one quart 
water, whites of four eggs. Mash the raw grapes and sugar to- 
gether, add juice of one lemon ; strain into freezer at once. 

FROZEN COFFEE CUSTARD. 

From "The Delineator." 
One-half pound sugar, one-half pint cream, four eggs, one 
pint milk, one-half pint strong coflfee. Set milk upon stove in 
double boiler to scald. Beat eggs and sugar until very light, 
and add tc the hot milk; cook for an instant, remove from fire, 
and add cream and coffee. Let the custard cool, then freeze. 

NEAPOLITAN IC E-CREAM. 

Miss Martha Shoemaker. 
One quart milk, one pint cream, yolks of six or eight eggs, 
one cup sugar, one large table-spoon vanilla. Make a boiled 
custard of the milk, sugar and yolks of eggs; when cooked, 
strain, and when cool, add the cream; flavor. 

ICED RICE PUDDING WITH COMPOTE OF 

ORANGES. 

From "The Delineator." 

To one-half cup rice, allow one pint milk, one quart cream, 

two cups sugar, yolks of six eggs, one table-spoon vanilla. 

Cook rice one-half hour in one pint cold water, drain and press 

through a sieve. Whip the cream, and set in a cold place until 

wanted. Beat yolks of eggs and sugar until light, and add to 

the rice. Cook until it thickens, add vanilla, and when cool, 

freeze. When frozen, add the whipped cream, remove dasher, 

and let stand in freezer two hours. 

STRAWBERRY SHERBET. 

Miss Martha Shoemaker. 
Cne quart each of berries, sugar and water, four lemons, one 
table-spoon gelatine or white of one egg] add the beaten white 
when partly frozen. 



BEVERAGES. 87 



iBEVERASES.N^- 



BREAKFAST COCOA. 

Maria Parloa. 
For six cups, use two table-spoons each of powdered cocoa 
and sugar, one-half pint boiling water, one and one-half pints 
milk. Put milk on the stove in a double boiler. Put sugar and 
cocoa in a saucepan, and gradually pour the hot water upon 
them, stirring all the time. Place saucepan over fire and stir 
until the contents boil five minutes, then add boiling milk and 
serve. One gill cream is a great addition to the cocoa. 

TEA. 

Miss Martha Shoemaker. 

One tea-spoon tea, one cup freshly boiling water. Steam five 

minutes in an earthen tea-pot. Scald the tea-pot, put in the tea 

and pour on the boiling water. Cover closely and place where 

it will keep hot but not boil, for five minutes. 

COFFEE. 
Mits. Rachel Stephenson. 
For six cups, take twelve table-spoons coffee, white of one 
egg, and boil hard five minutes, then set on back of stove. 

A REFRESHING DRINK. 

Maria Parloa. 
Put into a tumbler about two table-spoons broken ice, two 
table-spoons chocolate syrup, three table-spoons whipped cream, 
one gill milk, one-half gill soda or Apolinaris water. Stir well 
before drinking. One tahle-spoon vanilla ice-cream is an addition. 
A delicious drink is made by using the syrup, one and one-half 
gills milk, the ice, and shaking well. 



88 PROGRESSIVE COOK BOOK. 



<«^MISGELLANEOaS.N' 



— Kerosene will remove blood stains. 

— Egg stains can be removed from silver w^ith damp salt. 

— Eggs covered when frying, will cook much more evenly. 

— If you heat your knife, you can cut hot bread as smoothly 
as cold. 

— A cup of water set in the oven will keep anything from 
burning. 

— Two apples in a cake box will keep cake fresh a long time. 
When apples wither, change them, 

— To keep glass from breaking when anything hot is poured 
into it, wrap a damp cloth around it. 

— A large slice of potato in the fat while frying doughnuts, 
will prevent the black specks from appearing on their surface. 

— To extract paint from silk or woolen goods, saturate the 
spots wnth turpentine and let it remain several hours, then rub 
between the hands. 

— To remove fruit, coffee or tea stains, hold the spot over a 
pail and pour boihng water from a considerable height through 
it. Soap sets the stains and should never be allowed to touch 
them. 

— To wash flannels so they will not shrink, wash them in 
warm, soapy water, but never rub soap on; rinse in warm blue 
water, and hang in house to dry, never out doors. Have room 
of same temperature as water in which flannels were washed. 

— To change feathers from one bed to another, or from a bed 
to pillows, open the feather bed as far as the pillow is open, 
first having pushed the feathers into one corner, away from the 
opening. Then baste the two open places together, and push 
the feathers into the pillow. Baste again, then rip first basting, 
and the work is done with no feathers flying around. This 
work can be done in the house. 



MISCELLANEOUS. 89 



CAMPHOR ICE. 
Two ounces each of almond oil and spermaceti, one ounce 
each of camphor gum and white wax melted together. 

HOME-MADE SOAP. 
Save grease until you have a five pound pail full, then put 
over fire to melt, and strain it. At the same time, put one can 
Babbitt's lye in one quart water and stir until all is dissolved. 
When cool, pour into the grease slowly, stirring all the time; 
when this is cool, mark off into cakes. It takes about fifteen 
minutes to make this soap. 

BLACK INK. 
Two ounces logwood, one-half ounce each of bi-carbonate pot- 
ash and copperas, dissolved in one gallon hot w^ater. 

LIQUID GLUE. 
Dissolve one pound glue in six quarts water, and add two 
pounds acetic acid. 

HOUSEWIFE'S TABLE. 
One pound of wheat flour, ----- One quart. 

Indian Meal, one pound two ounces, - _ - One quart. 
Butter, when soft, one pound, - - - - One quart. 

Ten eggs, .__._-- One pound. 

Loaf sugar, (broken) one pound, - - - - One quart. 

White sugar, one pound one ounce, - . - One quart. 

Brown sugar, one pound two ounces, - - - One quart. 
Sixteen large table-spoons, - . - . One-half pint. 
A common sized tunabler, ----- One-half pint. 

One tea-cup holds ------- One gill. 

One large table-spoon equals - -. - One-half ounce. 

Forty drops equals ------ One tea-spoon. 

Four tea-spoons equals ... - One table-spoon. 



PROGRESSIVE COOK BOOK. 



m 



# 



THE CASH TRADERS OF BILLINGS, MONTANA, 



Bought from Jirst hands for cask, marked at the Lowest Possible 

Price consistent with business pri7iciples, and offered to 

the people of Yellowstone County for 

We are ilgefifc fof "NtW HOMt" apd " WHiyt " l^\% WCHIfltS. 

CARPETS, RUGS, OIL CLOTHS, MATTINGS, 
CURTAINS AND UPHOLSTERY GOODS. 



Our stock of goods for Men afid Womeft's wear, is ahuays complete for 
either large or small orders. Try the Cash System and save ten to twenty 
per cent, on your purchases. 

P. S.—Just one request, don't send East for your supplies until you get 
our prices. Is not this a fair and reasonable request? 

McINTIRE MERCANTILE CO., Billings, Mont. 




tie 2 ° "1 *■"■ ai 



c ^ _ 






7^ s: >,^ 0^ c ? > 0) ^ fl 
* Tj^'f- '' -r — i;— ' a ® 



(ate. 






ENTERPRISING BUSINESS MEN. 



ATWOOD & STEELE'S 

DOUBLE 

Flavoring Extracts ! 



VANILLA, LEMON, ETC. 



Are the VERY BEST Goods in the Market, 

and are Unexcelled for Purity and 

Strength, and Delicacy of Flavor. 



FOR SALE BY >LL F1[[ST-CLASS GI|0CE1|S 



EVERYWHERE;. 



FOR THE BEST RESULTS IN YOUR COOKING, INSIST ON 
USING OUR EXTRACTS. 

ATWOOD ^ STEELE, Chicago. 



PROGRESSIVE COOK BOOK. 



COOPER'S ^ 

!![»■,■ 

BUCKEYE » 

MOWERS AND BINDERS* 



^ ^ ^ ^ 






GRBGERIESSPRBVISIOMS, 



NEW STONE STORE, SOUTH SIDE R. R., 
OPPOSITE PASSENGER DEPOT. 



^ ^ ^ ^ 



SHELF AND HEAVY 

Harbvare.n> 



--*- 



ENTERPRISING BUSINESS MEN. 



SIXTH AND WABASHA STS.. ST. PAUL, MINN. 



LARGEST RETAIL ESTABLISHMENT 

IN THE NORTHWEST. 



SIX FLOORS, 

FIVE ACRES OF SELLING SPACE. 
58 DEPARTMENTS. 



We sell everything necessary to 
Clothe Man, Woman and Child 
from head to foot ; to Furnish a 
Home from Parlor to Kitchen ; 
and many things besides. If you 
are too far away to come, 



SEND FOR OUR LARGE 

CATALOGUE. 

MAILED FREE TO ANY ADDRESS, 



OUTSIDE OF ST. PAUL AND MINNEAPOLIS. 



8 

ST. PAUL, IVLINN. 



PROGRESSIVE COOK BOOK. 




Patented Nov. 12, J889. Oct. 6, 1891. 

(Size 14^^ Inches Long, by 1% Inches Wide.) 



This knife is in a class by itself. 

Nothing approaches it in point of 

efficacy, durability and simplicity. 

It is indispensable 

to good housekeeping. 

From tip to tip it is solid steel 

of finest quality, beautifully finished 

and plated. 

It is not a machine, but a knife. 

Sharpened exactly like any other 

knife, on a whetstone or steel. 

Cuts thick or thin slices, hot or cold. 

No wood or bone connected with this 

wonderful knife. 

Shall we send you one at our expense 

of express or mail, for 

seventy-five cents ? 

You can return it the same way and 

get your money if you don't want it. 

Agents make fortunes. 

Not at stores. 

Exclusive territory. 

Write us. 



CHRISTY KNIFE CO., Fremont, Ohio. 



ENTERPRISING BUSINESS MEN. 



No Chemicals. 




W. BAKER 
& CO.'S 

Breakfast Cocoa 

Is absolutely pure 
and it is soluble. 



To increase the solubility of 
the powdered cocoa, various expe- 
dients are employed, most of them 
being based upon the action of some allcali, potash, soda or 
even ammonia. Cocoa which has been prepared by one of 
these chemical processes can usually be recognized at once 
by the distinct alkaline reaction of the infusion in vv^ater. 

W. Baker & Co.'s Breakfast Cocoa 

is manufactured from the first stage to the last by perfect 

mecha lical jMocesscs, no clieniical beingf used in 

its prei>iiratioil. By one of the most ingenious of these 
mechanical processes the greatest degree of fineness is 
secured without the sacrifice of the attractive and beautiful 
red color which is characteristic of an absolutely pure and 
natural cocoa. 

W. Baker & Co., Dorchester, Mas?/ 



PROGRESSIVE COOK BOOK. 



MANNHEIMER BROS.. 

ST. PAaU MINNESOTA, 

Have removed from Third Street to their New Building on the 

CORNER OF SIXTH AND ROBERT STREETS. 



The stock has been much enlarged, and now exceeds in extent and 
variety any Dry Goods House in the United States, with the exception of 
a few of the oldest of the Eastern houses. 

We invite special attention to our unparalleled variety of Twilled and 
Plain 

printed iPidlica fifSg. 

Extreme Novelties in Fine Wool and Silk Mixed 

DRESS FABRICS. 



Our cloak department is one the largest 

in America, and is full of handsome novelties in Coats, Capes, 

and Costujnes for Sprijig and Summer Wear. Large 

and Representative Departments for 

IVlILIvINERY, 

CARPKTS, 

DRAPERIKS, 

ART FURNITURE AMD UPHOLSTERY, 

have been opened, which it is intended shall occupy a leading place in the 
business of the N^orthwest. 



OaR MAIL ORDER DEPARTMENT 

Has been increased in efficiency. Orders are filled with the ut- 
most care and promptness, and invariably at our Lowest Prices. 

Sixth and Robert Streets, St. Paul, Minnesota. 



ENTERPRISING BUSINESS MEN. 



Important Home-Made Foods 

FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS. 



WHEY ; Made with Fair child 's 
J U N K E T i Essence of Pepsine. 



■WHEY 

Milk freed from its caseine and containing all its 
other constituents in solution ; milk, sugar, fat, 
soluble albuminoids, mineral salts, etc. Admirable 
as a temporary food for infants in cases where whole 
milk is likely to undergo fermentation, owing to dis- 
ordered condition of the digestive tract. 

In these cases. Whey is found to afford adequate 
nutrition and rest to the digestive functions, and 
thus presents a most favorable adjunct to medicinal 
treatment. 

JUNKET 

A delicious jelly-like curd from milk, acceptable and 
digestible for patients who are tired of fluid foods, 
and giving the sense of substance so grateful to con- 
valescents. 

Send for PR A CTICAL RE CIPES for making pre-di- 
gested foods for the sick, with our especially devised digestive 
preparations. 

FAIRCHILD BROS. & FOSTER, 

82 AND 84 Fui.TON St. new YORK CITY. 



PROGRESSIVE COOK BOOK. 



MANNHEIMER BROS., 

ST. PAidL, MINNESOTA, 

Have removed from Third Street to their New Building on the 

CORNER OF SIXTH AND ROBERT STREETS. 



The stock has been much enlarged, and now exceeds in extent and 
variety any Dry Goods House in the United States, with the exception of 
a few of the oldest of the Eastern houses. 

We invite special attention to our unparalleled variety of Twilled and 
Plain 

Extreme Novelties in Fine Wool and Silk Mixed 

DRESS FABRICS. 



Our cloak department is one the largest 

in America, and is full of handsome novelties in Coats, Capes, 

and Costumes for Spring and Suvinier Wear. Large 

and Representative Departments for 

NlIIvLINKRY, 

CARPKTS, 

DRAPKRIBS, 

art furniture AMD UPHOLSTERY, 

have been opened, which it is intended shall occupy a leading place in the 
business of the N'orthwest. 



OaR MAIL ORDER DEPARTMENT 

Has been increased in efficiency. Orders are filled with the ut- 
most care and promptness, and invariably at our Lowest Prices. 

Sixth and Robert Sti'-eets, St. Paul, Mhuiesota. 



ENTERPRISING BUSINESS MEN. 



Important Home-Made Foods 

FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS. 



WHEY ) Made with Fairchild' s 
JUNK ET^ Essence of Pepsine. 



'WHEY 

Milk freed from its caseine and containing all its 
other constituents in solution ; milk, sugar, fat, 
soluble albuminoids, mineral salts, etc. Admirable 
as a temporary food for infants in cases where whole 
milk is likely to undergo fermentation, owing to dis- 
ordered condition of the digestive tract. 

In these cases, Whey is found to afford adequate 
nutrition and rest to the digestive functions, and 
thus presents a most favorable adjunct to medicinal 
treatment. 

JUNKET 

A delicious jelly-like curd from milk, acceptable and 
digestible for patients who are tired of fluid foods, 
and giving the sense of substance so grateful to con- 
valescents. 

Send for PR A CTICAL RE CIPES for making pre-di- 
gested foods for the sick, with our especially devised digestive 
preparations. 

FAIRCHILD BROS. & FOSTER, 

82 AND 84 Fui.TON St. new YORK CITY. 



PROGRESSIVE COOK BOOK. 



TT H K 



Yellewsterie liistitate! 

FOR THE TREATMENT OF 

LiaaoR ^ 

The ^M0RPHINE^HABir 
TOBAGGO 



MONTANA, 

MIS IIS i ifli nii. 



Habitues can have the benefit of the 
dimate, the scenery of the Yellowstone 
Valley, sound sleep and healthful exercise, 
in their fight for hberty. For Terms, Etc., 



10S9H uo!i»AJ9sao3 



LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 





014 485 432 9 



