
Class, X^^n^ 
Book - -- V r 
Copyright ]^° 



COPYRIGHT DEPOSnV 



--THE APPETIZER ■■ 



A THOROUGHLY RELIABLE 

COOK BOOK: 



JEJvery recipe having been tested 
by experienced Cooks. . , . 



^O <il-J::ti X 



Copyright applied for. 







WORCESTER I 

Press of Lucius P. Goddard, 425 Main Street. 
1893. 






BOSTON STOBE. 



j^ Good Cook 

Ought to have a good variety of dishes, pots 
and pans and mixing things, to do her cooking with. 

In these days of labor saving contrivances, it is a pity 
that any woman should he without all the utensils that make 
cooking both easy and pleasant. 

JVb woman woxdd be without any of the things she needs 
in this line, if she fully realized for how little money they can 
he bought. 

Not everyone knows that we carry a large stock of such 
articles, yet such is the case. Those who do know it know also 
that we sell Mtchen things, as we do all other goods, at the low- 
est of low prices. 

Our large transactions make it possible for us to do this, 
since through our connection with the Syndicate Trading 
Company of New York we are able to purchase goods of all 
kinds at lower rates than can be done by dealers who have not 
the advantage of such connection. 

For all kitchen articles, then, such as mixing howls, and 
spoons, egg beaters, flour sieves, chopping howls, trays and 
knives^ pie plates, pudding dishes, bread and cake tins, tea ket- 
tles, tea pots, roasting pans, etc., etc., visit our kitchen furnish- 
iiigs department, in our basement. 

Yo'iivi'ltfndi^:eassorfm.e'/t*fhe ^arge and best, and the 
prices the lovmst in this region. 

Denholm & McKay Co. 

Worcester, Mass. 

Main Street, opposite Park Street. 



^Mi^l^^K2)a^r^^ ^- io^^^^a^^^^^K. 





SOUPS. 

Clam Chowder. 

One quart clams, salt and pepper to taste, one quart sliced 
potatoes, 2 small onions, 8 crackers, 1 quart water, 1 quart milk. 
Wash clams thoroughly in the quart of water and strain the 
liquid through a muslin. Boil potatoes in this until cooked. 
■ Slice onions and fry in butter until a golden brown, and 

add to the potatoes while they are cooking. Add the 
milk and spread over the top the crackers^ which have 
previously been split and softened in cold salted water, placing 
a piece of butter size of a walnut on each half. Cook slowly 
twenty minutes. Then add the clams and boil up once. 

Potato Soup. 

Pare 6 potatoes and let them simmer in a pint of water with 
1 onion sliced. When thoroughly cooked strain throu^rh a 
sieve and add a pint of milk; salt to taste. When hot stir in 
1 Q^'g well beaten. Serve immediately. 

Corn Chowder. 

Fry 2 or 3 slices fat salt pork (one onion if you wish). Strain 
into a kettle; add one quart sliced potatoes and 1 quart boiling 
water. Cook till potatoes are done, add one quart hot milk, 1 
can of corn (or one quart grated fresh corn), and bring to a 
boil. Add three tablespoonfuls butter, salt and pepper. 

Mock Bisque Soup. 

1 quart can tomatoes, 3 pints milk, 1 large table spoonful 
flour, butter the size of an ^^^^^ pepper and salt to taste, 1 scant 
teaspoonful soda. Put the tomato on to stew, and the milk in 
a double kettle to boil, reserving however half a cupful to mix 
with flour. Mix the flour smoothly with this cold milk, stir 
into the boiling milk, and cook ten minutes. To the tomato 
add the soda; stir well and rub through a strainer that is fine 
enough to keep back the seeds. Add butter, salt and pepper 
to the milk, and then the tomato. Serve immediately. If 
half the rule is made, stir the tomato well in the can before 
dividing, as the liquid portion is the more acid. 

Potato Soup. 

1 quart milk, 6 large potatoes, one stalk celery, 1 onion and 
on(i table spoonful butter. Put milk to I'oil with onion and 




"■^'^' 



Di'ink E. T. Smith & Co.^s Columbian JAVA, always Fresh Roasted. 5 

celery. Pare potatoes and boil thirty minutes. Turn off the 
water, and mash fine and light. Add boiling milk, and butter, 
and pepper and salt to taste. Rub through a strainer and 
serve immediately. A cupful of whipped cream, added when 
in the tureen, is a great improvement. This soup must iiot be 
allowed to stand, not even if kept hot. Served as soon as 
readv, it is excellent. 



FISH. 



Fish a la (■reme. 

4 pounds of fish (haddock preferred), 1 pint cream sauce, 1 
cup cracker crumbs, moistened in ^ of a cup of melted butter. 
Clean the fish, cook in boiling salted water (or steam) till the 
flesh separates. When cool remove the skin and bones, and 
pick apart in flakes. Make a rich white sauce. Put a layer of 
fish in a dish suitable for serving. Cover with the sauce, 
letting the fish soak up all it will; then arrange another layer 
of fish and sauce until all is used. Spread the moistened 
crumbs over the top, set in the oven and bake till the crumbs 
are brown. 

White Sauce for Fi.sh. 

1 pint milk, 2 tablespoonfuls butter, 2 heaping tablespoonfuls 
flour, salt and pepper. 

Heat the milk over hot water. Put the butter in a granite 
saucepan and stir until it melts and bubbles. Add the dry 
flour, and stir quickly till well mixed. Add the milk slowly, 
and stir vigorously till well mixed and perfectly smooth. 

Cusk. 

Mince 2 lbs. salt codfish; 1 quart cream or rich milk. Mix 
4 tablespoonfuls corn starch with ^ cup butter, and stir into 
the boiling milk. Add the juice of a small onion (if desired), 
a little parsley, salt and pepper. Cover with buttered crumbs, 
and bake till brown. 

Fish Hash. 

The same mixture as above, cooked in a little salt pork fat 
till brown, and turned out like an omelet. 

Fish Sojifflt, 

Prepare as above; add two tablespoonfuls of cream and two 
beaten eggs. Bake in a buttered dish. 




EBINA SMALL, 

Dealer in all kinds of 

Fresh Fish, Oysters m Lobsters. 

»o« 

Also, Planter, Wholesaler and Retailer of all 

CHOICEST BRANDS of OYSTERS, 

20| Pleasant Steeet, Woroestek. 
j. b. watson. h. b. belcher. 

WATSON & BELCHER, 



DEALERS IN — 



MEAT AND PROVISIONS, 

Butter, Eggs, Poultry, &c. 

All kinds of Game in its season. 

NO. 8 PEARL STREET, WORCESTER, MASS. 

LEWIS H. SCOTT, %" 

Manufacturer of Silk, Linen and Cotton 'P 

ELASTIC •STOCKINGS, \ 

For the support of Varicose Veins, Swelled Limbs, 4 

Weak Joints, Rheumatism, etc. 

Thi^h Hose, Kuee Caps, Leg-giiis, Abdoiuiual Bells, 

Made of the best imported Rubber Thread. 
Send for Price List. 

No. 515 MAIN ST. WORCESTER, Mass. <^^ 



Drink E. T. Smith <fc Co.^s Columbian JAVA, always Fresh Roasted. 7 

Salt Fish Balls. 

1 cup raw salt fish, 2 cups potato, 1 teaspoonful butter, 1 egg 
well beaten, salt. 

Pick the fish in pieces and free from bones. Cut the pota- 
toes in small pieces. Boil together, till potatoes are soft. 
Drain off all the water; mash and beat the fish and potatoes 
until very light. Add the butter, salt, and a little pepper. 
When slightly cool add the egg. Sliape in a tablespoon with- 
out smoothing much, slip them off into a basket, and fry in 
smoking hot lard or cottolene (I prefer the latter) one minute. 
Fry only five or six at a time, as more will cool the fat. The 
fat should be hot enough. to brown a piece of bread while you 
count forty. 

MEATS. 



Meat Souflfle. 

1 pint cooked meat finely chopped, 1 pint cream sauce, 4 
eggs, 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley, 1 teasj)oonful onion juice, 
salt and pepper to taste. Stir meat and seasoning into the 
boiling sauce; cook two minutes, add the yolks of the eggs 
well beaten, and set away to cool. When cold, add whites 
beaten to a stiff froth. Bake in u buttered dish half an hour. 
Serve immediately. 

Croquettes. 

1 solid pint chopped chicken or mixed meats, 1 tablespoon- 
ful salt (scant), -J teas])Oonful celery salt, 1 salt-spoonful 
pepper (black or white), 1 teaspoonful onion juice, 1 table- 
spoonful lemon juice, 1 table spoonful clio])ped ])arsley, 1 egg, 
1 pint cream sauce 

For the sauce scald 1 pint milk, cream or stock. If milk is 
used add 2 tablespoonfuls butter, if cream or stock, 1. Cook 
the butter and 2 heaping tablespoonfuls flour until smooth; 
add the boiling liquid slowly. Stir constantly until smooth 
and of the consistency of paste. Mix with the seasoned meat. 
When cold, shape, roll in fine bread crumbs, and fry in a wire 
basket in boiling fat. They will fry better if shaped and 
rolled several hours before frying. The fat should be hot 
enough to brown a piece of bread while counting forty. 

Beef-steak Loaf. 

4 lbs. chopped raw beef (the round is best), 8 j^ounded 
crackers, 1 cup sweet milk, piece of butter the size of an egg. 





k MSI 



to 

' COAL 

in the city for cooking, as well for heating purposes, 

— VISIT THE — 

Worcester Coal Co. 

18 PEARL ST. . Y. M. C. A. BUILDING. 

We solicit YOUR patronage. 



Commonwealth Hotel, 

Worcester, Mass. 

F. G. HARDEN & CO. 

Proprietors. 

Two Minutes from 

Union Depot. 

Rates, $2.00 & $2.50 

per day. 

Steam Heat. 
Electric Light. 

Batb Rooms. ^ 

Sample and Billiard ^B 
Rooms. 




Tie Plac' 





i 



Ladies' Wrappers, 

Underwear, 

Children's Dresses, 

Cloaks, tSonnelK and 

infants' Fiiruisliiugs. 

Remember name and number. 

K. D. FOWLE, 

272 Main Street, Worcester, Mass. 



Brink E. T. Smith & Co.^s Columbian JAVA, always Fresh Roasted. 9 

3 teaspoonfuls salt, 1 teaspoonful pepper, 4 well beaten eggs. 
Mix well and bake two hours. 

Scalloped Chicken. 

Take equal parts of cold roast or boiled chicken, cold rice 
and tomato sauce. Put in layers in a shallow dish. Cover 
with buttered crumbs and bake till done. 



SALADS, Etc. 



Potato Salad. 

Cut cold boiled potatoes in dice shape. Scrape or cut very 
fine a very small onion, and mix thoroughly with the potato. 
Beat with an egg beater 6 tablespoonfuls sweet cream, 4 table- 
spoonfuls vinegar; salt and pepper. Pour over the potato. 

Potato a la Duchesse. 

Take 5 middle-sized potatoes (cold boiled), grate and mix 
with them 5 dessert-spoonfuls flour, adding to the mixture 2 
well beaten eggs and a jill of milk; salt. Mix thoroughly, 
make into balls, and drop into hot fat, and fry a light brown. 

Salad Dressing. 

1 cup cream, 1 cuj) butter, 4 eggs, 1 pint vinegar, 1 large 
spoonful each of salt and mustard, J cup sugar, ^ teaspoonful 
cayenne. Cook like soft custard. 

Cream Salad Dressing. 

2 eggs, 3 tablespoonfuls vinegar, juice of half a lemon, 1 table- 
spoonful cream, 1 teaspoonful sugar, ^ teaspoonful salt, ^ tea- 
spoonful mustard, 1 tablespoonful butter. Beat the eggs well. 
Add the sugar, salt, mustard, then the vinegar and lemon juice, 
butter and cream. Place bowl in basin of boiling water, and 
stir until about the thickness of rich cream. 

Salad Dressing. 

1 cup cream, 1 cup vinegar, 3 eggs, 1 tablespoonful each of 
sugar and butter, ^ tablespoonful salt, and scant tablespoonful 
mustard, pepper. Mix thoroughly, and boil till thick like cus- 
t^ard 

Cream Salad Dressing. 

1 cup of cream, 1 cup of butter, 5 eggs, 1 teaspoonful of salt, 
1 teaspoonful of dry mustard, ^ teaspoonful of red pepper, J 
cup of sugar (small), a small half pint of vinegar. Put the 
cream on to boil in a double kettle, then beat together butter, 



10 



1873-1893 



WM. HYLAND, 



Manufacturer and Dealer in 




resses, Spriogs, Comforters, 

HUSK, COTTON, WOOL, 

And everything in the BEDDING Line. 



Feather Beds Renovatedy 

Hair Mattresses made over^ 

Called for and returned the same day. 



Mr. H. being the leading Manufacturer 

in the country, satisfaction can be guaranteed in all cases. He produces 
an average of 

2oO JilctttTP^sses per dciy. 

There can be no delay in the work, as he has 40 steady naen at work 
the year round. 



Drink E. T. Smith & Co.'s Columbian JAVA, always Fresh Boasted. 11 

eg.2^s, sugar and mustard, then stir this mixture into the boiling 
cream, and stir constantly until it thickens, then remove from 
the fire and turn in the vinegar, which should be heating mean- 
while, and give it a good beating for a minute. Use a wooden 
spoon. 

Egg Salad. 
Boil a dozen eggs, and cut the whites in halves. Mix with 
the yolks 1 teaspoonful minced ham, small piece of butter, tea- 
spoonful each of salt, sugar and celery seed, 4 tablespoonfuls 
vinegar. Fill whites of eggs with the mixture. 

Scalloped Potatoes. 

Slice raw potatoes thin as for chips. Place in cooking dish, 
in layers, with salt, butter, pepper and a little onion if desired. 
Nearly cover with milk. Bake until potatoes are soft. 



EGGS. 



StuflPed Eggs. 

Boil 6 eggs 20 minutes. Mash the yolks and add one tea- 
spoonful soft butter, and half the quantity of minced chicken, 
lamb or veal. Season with salt, pepper and chopped parsley. 
Fill the whites with the mixture, and press the two halves to- 
gether. Spread the remainder of the yolk mixture on a baking 
dish, and place the eggs on it. Cover with a thin white sauce, 
or chicken or veal gravy. Sprinkle buttered crumbs over the 
whole, and bake till the crumbs are a delicate brown. 

Scrambled Eggs with Ham. 

Dip slices of toast in hot salted water. Butter slightly, and 
spread with finely chopped ham. Scramble eggs in the pro- 
portion of 2 eggs and butter size of half an egg, to one cup milk. 

Eggs a la Golden-rodc 

Boil three eggs hard. Pour a cupful of white sauce over 
the chopped whites. Press the yolks through a sieve over the 
sauce, season with salt and pepper. 

Egg Omelet. 
6 eggs; divide the yolks from whites; beat yolks thoroughly, 
add 1 tablespoonful cornstarch dissolved in a little milk, add 1 
coffee cup rich milk slowly, salt. Beat the whites very stiff, 
salting them first ; stir in last thing lightly. Pour all in hot 
buttered spider. Do not turn. 



12 



1 839 Oldest My sic House in New England. \ 839 

S. R. LELAND & SON, 

CHICKERING, FISCHER, 

HALLET & DAVIS, STERLmG, 

W. P. EMERSON, 

/ MBTMY % 0B6AHB , 



Manufacturers and Importers of 



We Sell on Easy Monthly Payments. 
446 MAIN STREET. WORCESTER, Mass. 



Mrs, M, P, Childs 



HAS OPENED 








'Stiffs 



At A. H. EVANS', 



BURN COAT STREET, - 



- NORTH END, 



And will be pleaded 
to accommodate all 
those in need of . . 



« » ir iiKS^:; K\ l=iil^i/ff\.t^)i^' War lyjiFli^. « « 

Outside Garments a Specialty. 

Cutting and fitting by McDowell Garment Drafting Machine. 



Drink E. T. Smith <fc Co,^s Columbian JAVA, always Fresh Roasted. 13 

Baked Omelet. 

Boil J pint of milk ; beat 6 eggs very light, yolks and whites 
separately. Put ^ teaspoonful of salt and a piece of butter half 
as large as an egg into the boiling milk, and stir it into the 
beaten yolks. Place the whites in a deep dish, and pour the 
custard over it. Bake ten minutes in a quick oven. It should 
be a delicious brown. Eat hot. 



RELISHES. 



Chow-Chow. 

1 large red cabbage, 1 large cauliflower, 2 quarts each very 
small string beans, small tomatoes (green), cucumbers, and 
silverskin onions. Quarter the cabbage and remove the core, 
then shave in thin slices; break the cauliflower into flowerets, 
but leave the others whole. Mix thoroughly, add 1 pint flne 
salt, and let stand over night. In the morning rinse in cold 
water and drain. Then add 1 oz. celery seed, 1 oz. white mus- 
tard seed, and 1 small box ground mustard. Cover well with 
vinegar and boil twenty minutes or half an hour. Mix ^ lb. 
granulated sugar and 1 tabiespoonful turmeric, and stir in 
thoroughly while the mixture is cooling. 

Uigdnni. 

Chop fine green tomatoes, salt thoroughly and let remain 
over night. Pour off the juice, and to each gallon of tomatoes 
add 2 quarts of chopped cabbage, 3 onions chopped fine, 3 lbs. 
sugar (brown preferred), 2 quarts vinegar, 1 teaspoonful each 
of cloves, cinnamon and whole mustard, a little pepper, and 1 
tabiespoonful of celery seed. This is not cooked, but all ingre- 
dients added cold. 

Pickled Fruit. 

10 pounds fruit, 3 lbs. sugar, 1 pint vinegar, 1 tabiespoonful 
cloves, a few pieces cinnamon bark, 1 cup water, and cook until 
soft. Put all in the kettle at the same time. 

Pepper Hash. 

Chop 1 large sized white cabbage and 8 peppers fine, 4 green 
and 4 red tomatoes, small cup salt. Mix well and let stand 24 
hours, then drain and add 5 cents' worth mustard seed, 1 table- 
spoonful each ground cloves and cinnamon. Mix well and 
cover with 3 pints scalded vinegar. 




C. B. COOK. C. L. BURGES. 

C. B, M Lanniry Co. 

SHIRTS, 
COLLARS and CUFFS 

Laundered in Superior Style. 



Special attention given 

TO 

GENT'S UNDERWEAR, 

And Flannels 
of all kinds. 

Barton Place, 

Worcester, Mass. 




^vn^m fnvtvuUr [ Migh Grade 
fa$fi[l Favitaif^v \ Photos Only. 

The Only One Price Studio in the City. 

326 MAIN STREET, : : : : WORCESTER, Mass. 

O. C. C. ADAMS & CO. 




4j ^ 




■#> 



OPTICAL GOODS, ARTIFICIAL EYES, EAB TRUMPETS. 



390 MA.IN STREET, 



WOKCESTEK, MaS:^. 



Drink E. T. Smith & Co.^s Columbian JAVA, always Fresh Roasted. 15 

Chili Sauce. 

10 tomatoes, 4 green peppers, 3 onions, pepj'ers and onions 
chopped fine, 2 cups sugar, 3 cups vinegar, 1 tablespoonful salt, 
^ teaspoonful all kinds of spice. Cook two hours. 

Chili Sauce. 

12 large ripe tomatoes, 2 green peppers, 2 chopped onions, 1 
tablespoonful sugar, 1 tablespoonful salt, 2 cups vinegar, 1 tea- 
spoonful each of ginger, cloves, cinnamon, allspice, nutmeg. 
Boil half an hour. 

French Mustard. 

4 ounces Colburn's mustard, 1 ounce powdered sugar, tea- 
spoonful salt. Rub well together with the hand. Boil ^ pint 
good vinegar. Pour about half the vinegar (boiling) on the 
ingredients in the bowl, and stir quickly and thoroughly until 
all the lumps are out. Add enough boiling vinegar to reduce 
the mixture to a smooth paste, just thick enough to run slowly 
off the spoon. Keep in a corked bottle in a cool place and let 
stand 24 hours before using. 

Pickled Tomatoes. 

8 quarts green tomatoes, 4 onions, 2 green pep])ers; slice, salt, 
and let them stand over night. In the morning add 1 pound 
brown sugar, and ^ ounce each of whole cloves, allspice, and 
mustard seed. Cook till tender. 

Spiced Currants. 

5 lbs. currants, 4 lbs. sugar, 2 tablespoonfuls each of clove, 
allspice and cinnamon, 1 pt. vinegar. Simmer 2 hours. 

Grape Ketchup. 

5 lbs. grapes (wild ones are very nice for this), 2^ lbs. sugar, 

1 pint vinegar, 1 tablespoonful each of cinnamon, clove, allspice, 
and pepper, ^ tablespoonful of salt. Boil the grapes with 
water to nearly cover them, and put through a colander. Add 
spices, and boil until a little thick. 

Sweet Tomato Pickle— very nice. 

1 peck of green tomatoes and 6 large onions sliced or chopped. 
Sprinkle with 1 cupful of salt anc; let stand over night. In the 
morning drain. Add to the tomatoes 2 quarts of water, and 1 
quart of vinegar ; boil 15 minutes, then drain, and throw this 
vinegar and water away. Add to the pickle 2 pounds of sugar, 

2 qts. of vinegar, 2 tables] toonfuls each of cinnamon, allspice, 
clove, ginger, mustard, and 1 teaspoonful cayenne. Boil till soft. 



16 



Dr. D. FRANCIS ESTABROOK, 



Ftrst - Class TVorJk: 



.'. FOB .'. 



(Z^easo7za7?Ze JPTZces. 



-^^ 



Plate IXloi^k a Specialty, 



20 Pearl Street, 

Y. M. C. A. BUILDING, OPPOSITE POST OFFICE. 



Drink E. T. Smith & Co.^s Columbian. JAVA, always Fresh Roasted. 17 

Chili Sauce. 

18 large tomatoes, 4 green pef)pers, 2 onions, all chopped fine. 
2 tablespoonfuls salt, 2 cupfuls sugar, 2 cupfuls vinegar. Boil 
all together. 

Pickles. 

1 peck green tomatoes slicerl, 1 doz. onions sliced, 1 dozen small 
cucumbers or large ones sliced, 1 quart string beans, 2 cauliflow- 
ers cut up. Salt all over night. In the morning drain off the 
liquor, and add 4 ears of green corn shelled, 2 heads of celery, 
I lb. brown sugar, i lb. white mustard seed, ^ cup grated horse 
radish, 1 tablespoonful ground cloves, enough vinegar to cover 
all. Boil half an hour. Lastly, add i lb. EngHsh mustard mixed 
with cold vinegar, stir in and let it jusf, come to a boit. 

Chopped Sweet Pickle. 

4 quarts of green chopped tomatoes, add \ cup fine salt, and 
let it stand over night. Drain thoroughly, add 1 quart chopped 
cabbage, 1 pint chopped onions, 3 spoonfuls whole cloves, 4 spoon- 
fuls ground cassia, 1 spoonful ground black pepper, 3 spoonfuls 
ground mustard, 2 spoonfuls ginger, 1 lb. sugar, 1 quart good 
cider vinegar. Boil until tender, but not too soft. 

Grape Catsup. 

Boil the grapes and sift, then to 5 lbs. of the pulp add 1^ lbs. 
sugar, 1 pint vinegar, cinnamon, cloves, allspice and pepper each 
1 teaspoonful, ^ tablespoonful salt. Boil until the proper thick- 
ness 

Oreen Tomato Preserve. 

1 peck green tomatoes sliced and steamed (or cooked in clear 
water) until you can pierce with a straw. Drain off water and 
weigh, 1 lb. of sugar to 1 lb. of tomatoes, not quite so sweet if 
not desired, 7 lemons, 1 oz. white ginger root. Simmer 3 or 4 
hours. 

Tomatoes a la Creme. 

Peel and slice tomatoes, season with salt and pepper, dip in 
flour and fry in butter. Serve with cream sauce. 



MUFFINS, GEMS, BREADS, Etc. 

Muffias. 

1 egg, 1 tablespoonful butter, 1 cup sugar, \ cup milk, \ tea- 
spoonful soda, 1 teaspoonful cream of tartar, flour enough to 
make a good batter. Bake quickly. 



18 

The Judges of the 



World's Columbian Exposition 

\ ^ 

have given to 

Walter Baker & Company 



THE . . 



HIGHEST AWAJ^DS 

(MEDALS AND DIPLOMAS) 

on each of the articles contained in their exhibit, namely: 

BREAKFAST COCOA. 

Premium No. 1 Chocolate. 
Tanilla Chocolate. 
German Sweet Chocolate. 
Cocoa Butter. 



• The Judges state in their report that these products are 
characterized by excellent flavor, purity of material employed, 
and uniform even composition, indicating great care in point 
of mechanical preparation. 



A copy of Miss Parloa's " Choice Receipts " will be sent 
free to any housekeeper, on application, by mail or otherwise. 

WALTER BAKER & CO. 

Dorchester, Mass. 



Drink E. T. Smith & Co.^'i Columbian JAVA, always Fresh Roasted. 19 

Graham Bread. 

1 pint milk scalded, 2 teaspoonfuls salt, | yeast cake, flour 
enough for thick batter. When the batter is- light, add 1 cup 
cold milk, with | teaspoonful saleratus, large half cup sugar, and 
graham or Arlington meal to make a soft dough Put in the 
pans and let it rise until light. Then bake. If the batter is 
made in the morning, part of the dough can be baked in muffin- 
pans for tea. This rule makes 12 large muflins aud a loaf of 
bread. Do not mix the muffins quite as stiff as the bread. 

Graham Muffins. 

1^ cups white flour, 1^ cups graham flour, ^ cup molasses, 1 
teaspoonful saleratus, 2 teaspoonfuls cream of tartar, li cups 
milk, salt. 

Sour Milk Muffins. 
1 cup flour, 1 cup meal, 1 cup sour milk, |^ cup molasses, 1 
teaspoonful saleratus, salt. 

Brown Bread. 
3 cups thick sour milk, 2 cups Indian meal, 2 cups rye meal, 
1 cup molasses, 2 even teaspoonfuls saleratus. Steam 3 hours. 

Breakfast >Iuffins. 

1 cup white flour, ^ cup graham flour, 1 teaspoonful cream of 
tartar, ^ teaspoonful saleratus, 2 tablespoonfuls sugar, 2 table- 
spoonfuls melted butter, 1 egg, cup milk. Bake in hot gem pans.' 

Pop-Overs. 
1 cup flour, 1 cup milk, 1 egg, pinch saleratus, salt. Bake 
quickly in hot pans. 

Johnny Cake. 

1 cup Indian meal, ^ cup flour, -^ cup molasses, ^ teaspoonful 
salt, I teaspoonful saleratus, 1 cup sour milk. 

German Puffs. 

6 eggs, leaving out the whites of three for sauce, 6 table- 
spoonfuls flour, 1 tablespoonful melted butter, 1 pint milk. 
Bake in gem pans in a quick oven. Place on a platter, and 
pour over them the following sauce : 1 large cup sugar and the 
juice of 4 or 5 oranges added to the whites of 3 eggs, beaten 
stiff". 

Corn Cake. 

2 eggs, ^ cup sugar, 2 teaspoonfuls cream of tartar, ^ tea- 
spoonful saleratus, 1 cup milk, 1 tablespoonful melted butter. 
Mix thin enough to run with half Indian meal and half flour. 



20 



FOR 



Finest Quality, 







Greatest Strength \}^^M 



AND 



Economy, Use 










•«-«^- 



FUYORS 



UNEQUALED EXTRACTS of Choicest Fruits 



Thousands of Gross have been sold. 




OR 
INE 



Wall Papers, 



"^ 



And all fine INTERIOR DECORATIONS go to 

EUGENE N. MORRILL, 

Lowell, jVIass. 



Lo^west Prices, 

Finest Goods 

Only Experienced Artists Employed 



IN THE COUNTRY. 



Drink E. T. Sxifh & Co.^s djlumbian JAVA, always Fresh Roasted. 21 

DESSERTS. 



Piiikling S«iiice. 

2 eggs, 1 cup sugar, 3 tablespoon fuls cream. Beat yolks and 
sugar together, add cre.im, liot, add beaten whites of eggs. 
Flavor. 

Steamed Oraham Pudding. 

1 cup molasses, i cup warm water, 1 cup raisins chopped, 
piece of butter the size of a wahiut, salt, a little wheat flour, 1 
teaspoonful soda. Mix the Graham flour to the consistency of 
molasses gingerbread, and steam two or three hours. 

Fruit Jellies. 

Make any nice lemon jelly, adding either strawberries mashed 
with plenty of sugar, or sliced peaches sweetened. Use the 
same amount ot lemon as for the plain jelly. These jellies are 
very nice served cold with cream. 

Pineapple Sherbet. 

To 1 can pineapple allow 1 pint sugar and one heaping table- 
spoonful gelatine Chop the pineapple very fine, add the juice 
of fruit and the sugar. Soak the gelatine in cold water until 
dissolved, then add |^ cuj) hot water, and mix with pineapple. 
Serve cold. 

(.'aramel Custard. 

1^ cups sugar, 6 eggs, 1 quart milk, salt. Melt the sugar in 
a spider over a hot lire. Pour it in the scalding milk. Add the 
beaten yolks of eggs, then the salt, and vanilla flavoring. Use 
whites of eggs for frosting. Bake same as ordinary custard. 

Plain l^up Custard. 

1 quart scalded milk, 4 eggs beaten, 4 tablespoonfuls sugar, 
salt. Bake in pan half filled with hot water. 

Tapioca Pudtling. 

Soak for an hour 1- cup pearl tapioca in f cup of cold water. 
Scald this mixture (until the tapioca swells) in a pint of milk; 
then add it to the following conglomeration : h cup sugar con- 
taining a small pinch of cinnamon, a little salt, 2 eggs, first 
melting in the mdk a small piece of butter. Bake in a buttered 
dish about f of an hour. 

I'apioca Cream. 

Soak 4 tablespoonfuU tapioca over night. To 1 quart boiling 
milk add | cu|) of sugar, yo.ks of three eggs, a little salt. Boil 
till consistency of a custard. U.^e whites of eggs tor frosting. 



22 




E. A. MERRILL, 

0P anil /onfii %mh. 

BJRD CAGES a.nd BIRD SUPPLIES 

Of all kinds on hand. 



290 Main Street, 



Worcester. 



OPPOSITE BAY STATE HOUSE. 



E. A. KELLEY. 



BEMIS & COMPANY, 



Dealers in 




} 




m. 



SINGLE PAIRS A SPECIALTY. 
421 and 423 Main Street, Worcester, Mass. 

Starkie's Dye House, 

12 L^YA-KD I=*LACE, 

WoKCESTER, Mass. 



OF' 



Ladies' and Gent's Garments. 



Drink E. T. Smith tfc Co.'.s Columbian JAVA, always Fresh Roasted. 23 

Spanish Cream. 

l}j pints of milk, ^ box gelatine. Mix and let it remain an 
hour. Add the yolks of 3 eggs, aud two small cups of sugar. 
Scald as thick as soft custard, then stir in the whites of the 
eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Flavor to taste. Pour in a mold 
and cool gradually. 

Apricot ('ream. 

Take a pint of preserved apricots, turn out into a saucepan, 
add 2 ounces of sugar, let them boil for a quarter of an hour, 
and pass them through a strainer. Dissolve ^ box of gelatine 
in a little milk, whip to a froth a pint of cream. Mix the gela- 
tine with the apricot pulp, then quickly work into it the cream. 
Pour the mixture into a -mold and put it on the ice to set. 
When wanted, dip the mold in hot water and turn .out the 
cream. I'eaches can be used the same way. 

Roman Cream. 

I box of gelatine, 6 eggs, 8 tablespoonfuls sugar, 1 quart 
milk. Put the gelatine and milk on to boil. Beat the yolks of 
the eggs and sugar together, and stir in. Flavor to taste. 
When a little cool stir in the whites beaten to a stiff froth. 

Caramel Custard. 

1 quart of milk, 1 cup sugar, 3 eggs, pinch of salt. Put milk 
on to scald, brown the sugar in a saucepan and add to the milk; 
when dissolved, add the beaten eggs, and bake like any custard. 

Strawberry Pudding. 

Yolks of 2 eggs, 1 cup sugar, 1 cup milk, 2 cups flour, 1 tea- 
spoonful yeast powder. While it is baking beat the whites of 
the eggs as for frosting, adding powdered sugar until. quite stiff. 
Have ready one quart of strawberries (less will do), and mash 
them thoroughly in a bowl. When the pudding is ready to 
serve stir the berries into the frosting and serve as a sauce for 
the pudding. 

Chocolate Custard. 

Into 2 cups of boiling milk stir the yolks of two eggs beaten 
with I cup sugar, 1 large tablesi)Oonful of corn starch and a 
pinch of salt. Stir until it thickens, and flavor with vanilla. 
When cold cover this with frosting : Beat the whites of 2 eggs 
to a stiff froth, add I cup sugar, and 1 tablespoonful of grated 
chocolate. 

Tapioca Pudding. 

2 tablespoonfuls tapioca soaked over night. Drain off water 
and add 1 pint of milk, the yolks of 2 eggs. Boil in double 



24 



Chas. V. Putnam, Pres. A. B. R. Sprague, Treas. 

PUTNAM & SPRAGUE CO. 



^IIIITUII, 



F 



IIB BMFEfflE! 



247 and 249 IVTain Street, 

WORCESTER,. MASS. 



IDJl.'VXS &c CO. 
Suslmit lailors. 

Dealebs i>' Fine Ready-Made 

And Men's Fine Furnishings. 
y 280 MAIN STREET, WORCESTER, MASS. 

OPPOSITE BAY STATE HOUSE. 

'■^ '' J. Edgar Davis, Arthur E. Davis. 

IF IT'S MADE OF RUBBER WE'VE GOT IT. 





mi 



WMM 



324 MAIN ST, Opp. MeclianiCS Hall, WORCESTER, MASS, 



AARON S. TAFT, Proprietor. 



HuLbe 



BOOTS, SHOES, CLOTHING, 

r MACINTOSHES, HOSE, BELTING, and 
PACKING, DRUGGIST SUNDRIES, Etc. 



Drink E. T. Smith & Co.'s Columbian JAVA, always Fresh Roasted. 25 

boiler, sweeten and flavor to taste ; place in oven, after spread- 
ing on frosting made of whites of the eggs. 

Cracker Pudding. 

3 crackers rolled fine, yolks of 2 eggs, 1 pint of milk, f cup 
of raisins, f cup sugar, salt and nutmeg. Bake one hour. Beat 
whites of eggs with 1 tablespoonful sugar, spread on top and 
' brown. 

Spanish Cream. 

3 pints of milk poured on 1 ounce of gelatine to soak one hour ; 
6 eggs, 8 tablespoonfuls sugar. Beat sugar and yolks together, 
and pour into the milk while boiling ; then pour the mixture on 
the whites of the eggs which have previously been beaten. 
Flavor with vanilla. Put it in a mold when cold. Serve with 
cream. 

Baked Kice Pudding. 

Boil ^ cup of rice in 1 pint of water 30 minutes, add 1 quart 
milk and boil 80 minutes. Beat together 3 eggs, 1 cup sugar, 
2 teaspoonfuls salt, a little lemon or nutmeg, and stir into the 
rice. Put in a pudding dish and bake 30 minutes. 

Coffee Jelly. 

1 pint sugar, 1 pint strong coffee, 1^ pints boiling water, ^ pint 
cold water, 1 box gelatine. Soak the gelatine two hours in cold 
water. Pour the boiling water on it, and when it is dissolved 
add the sugar and coffee. Stram, turn into molds and set away 
to harden. This is to be served with sugar and cream. 

Lemon Pudding. 

9 tablespoonfuls grated apple, 1 lemon (grated), peel and pulp 
I cup butter, i pint milk, '2 cups sugar, 3 eggs. Beat butter? 
sugar and eggs to a cream, then add the apple and milk. Line 
a pudding dish with rich crust, bake half an hour. A meringue 
of whites of 3 eggs and 3 tablespoonfuls sugar may be added 
if liked. 

Puddinj? Sauce. 

( Nice for suet and other steamed puddings.) 
Mix 1 teaspoonful corn starch with two cups granulated sugar. 
Pour over this I cup hot water, and let it boil. Slice into the 
boiling syrup 2 or 3 tart apples in very thin bits, and let the 
whole boil .until the apple is clear and semi-transparent. Pour 
this on to 2 tablespoonfuls ( good measure ) butter, creamed. 
Flavor slightly with vanilla. When served the sauce should be 
of the consistency of syrup. 



26 



NEW YORK BIRD STORE, 

Dealers in 





y 



Cages and Food 

In great variety. 



C. C. Webster & Co. 
268 

Worcester, Mass. 






-S^ ^ Jnl J^ A K 2t# 



CHILDREN'S HAIR CUTTING 

And all kinds of 

MAIM WOMK MADE TO OMBEM. 

WIS-M4IIJ1 4 SP1014OT, 

387 Main St., AVorcester, Mass. 

GROUT'S BLOCK. 

FICIIL MISSIQE TIEITMEIT GIfll. 



Drink E. T. Smith & Co.^s Columbian JAVA, always Fresh Roasted. 27 

Ginger Cream. 

Soak 1 box of gelatine in i cup cold water 20 minutes. Boil 
1 pint milk, add beaten yolks of 4 eggs, i cup sugar, i teaspoon- 
ful salt. Cook until thick like custard ; add gelatine, strain into 
a pan and set on ice. Add J cup ginger syrup, I pound ginger 
cut in small pieces. When thick add 1 pint cream whipped. 
Pour in a mold. 

Fuller Pudding. 

1 cup molasses, 1 cup sweet milk, 1 egg, butter the size of an 
egg, clove and cinnamon, 1 cup stoned raisins, 1 teaspoonful 
soda, 2 teaspoonfuls cream of tartar, flour as for soft ginger- 
bread. Steam three hours. Use cold sauce. 

Custard Souffle. 

2 scant tablespoonfuls butter, 2 tablespoonfuls flour, 2 table- 
spoonfuls sugar, 1 cupful milk, 4 eggs. Let the milk come to a 
boil. Beat the flour and butter together ; add them to the boil- 
ing milk gradually, and cook eight minutes, stirring often. Beat 
sugar and yolks of eggs and add to the cooked mixture and set 
away to cool. When cool beat whites to a stiff froth and add 
to the mixture. Bake in a buttered dish for twenty minutes in 
a moderate oven. Serve immediately. 

Sauce for Souffle, 

Whites of 2 eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Add 1 coffee-cupful 
sugar, beat well. Then add 1 tumblerful orange juice. Any 
other fruit juice or a box of strawberries, mashed, may be sub- 
stituted for the oranges. 

Prune Souffle. 

h lb. prunes stewed and chopped fine. Whites of 6 eggs 
beaten to a stiff froth; add 12 tablespoonfuls powdered sugar, 
and beat well, then whip m lightly the prunes. Bake^in buttered 
dish for ten or fifteen minutes in a moderate oven.^Serve with 
cream iminediately. 

Boiled Indian Pudding. 

1 pint milk, 1 egg, IJ tablespoonfuls molasses; mix as hard as 
pancakes, with fine meal, salt. Boil 5 hours. Sauce to your 
taste. 

Baked Indian Pudding. 

1 quart milk, scald ; mix 1 full cu|) meal with cold milk, then 
pour it on the scalding milk, stirring it, and sweeten it with 
molasses to taste, allspice and salt, and ^ cup of cold milk, when 
putting it in the oven. 



28 



RICHARD HEALY, 

Is sliowiiig some very handsome styles in Ladies' and Misses' 

Ctoilks. ittjits. f MiPi 



'5) 
Tea-Gowns, Mackintoshes, 



f 



'9 



Cravenettes and Silk Waists, 



AT ESPECIALLY LOW PRICES. 



EDMUND A. WALSH, 

Successor to Walsh & Harrington, 

fall |apqs &l]itt(l0iti §kte, 



S4 



Street, - Fiiiiui Sqmie, 

WORCESTER, MASS. 



CHAELES E. GRANT, 

lire Insurance, 

352 MAIN STREET, 

WORCESTER, MASS. 
Telephone Call, 211-(i. P. 0. Box 142. 



Drink E. T. Smith cfc Co-'s Colanibim JAVA, always Fresh Boasted. 2? 

Hog Pudding. 

3 quarts Indian meal, 1 pint rye meal, 1^^ pints of molasses, 1 
pound lard, i pound beef suet, allspice and raisins. Scald with 
hot milk half the meal, then mix with cold milk, put them in 
boiling water, and boil two hours. 

Orange Short Cake. 

1 egg, 1 tablespoonful butter, 3 cups flour, 1 cup milk, 1 tea- 
spoonful cream of tartar, i teaspoonful soda, 2 tablespoonfuls 
sugar; beat sugar and butter to a cream. 

Caramel Ice Cream. 

IJ pints milk, 2 eggs, 1 coffee-cup sugar, 1 teaspoonful gela- 
tine, 1 pint cream, 1 tablespoonful vanilla. Scald the milk; melt 
the sugar over a hot fire until the lumps are all out, pour into the 
milk and let it dissolve. Pour this on to the beaten eggs and the 
gelatine which has been soaked in cold water. Cook until 
slightly thickened, and let it stand over night. Before freezing 
add 1 pint of cream and flavoring. Less cream can be used 
with good results. 

Thanksgiving Plum Pudding. 

Cut a loaf of baker's bread; boil 1 quart of milk, and pour 
on to it while hot, cover and let it stand until cool. Then add J 
lb. currants, ^ lb. raisins, stoned and cut, ^ lb. citron cut fine, 1 
nutmeg, 1 tablespoonful mace and cinnamon mixed, ^ lb. butter 
cut in small pieces, ^ lb sugar, 4 eggs well beaten. i)redge the 
fruit with flour to prevent sinking. Bake two hours. 

Apple Snow Pudding. 

Steam till tender 6 good sized apples. When cold, add a cup 
of sugar and the whites of 2 eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Beat 
the yolks with ^ cup of sugar and a cup of milk or cream, and 
use as a sauce. 

Mountain Dew Pudding. 

3 crackers pounded or rolled fine. 1 pint of milk, yolks of two 
eggs, and a little salt. Bake half an hour. Beat the whites of 
the two eggs to a stiff froth, add 1 cup of sugar, a pinch of salt, 
and flavor with lemon. Pour over the pndding, and set in the 
oven to brown slightly. 

Raisin Pudding. 

1 quart milk, | cup raisins, f cup sugar, 1 heaping tablespoon- 
ful rice, piece of butter size of a egg. Bake four hours in a slow 
oven. Stir often. 



30 



S^rt)O0l of Cnglbl) $i^m\>, 

Colonial Hall Building, Worcestek, Mass. 

SIXTH YEAR BEGAN 

Tuesday , Octcibei'' 3, 1893. 

Mrs. JOHN C. CUTTER, Mrs. WILLIAM E. BOWEN. 



Class and Private Instruction in 

Reading, ^Esthetic Culture ( Delsarte), 
Pantomimic Action, 

Abdominal Breathing Exercises, 

Pronunciation, Shakespeare Study, 

History, Literature, and Letter Writing. 

The excellent work of the school in reading and gesture was fully 
shown at the closing recitals of last June. These recitals received the 
highest praise from the press as well as from the large audiences that were 
present at every recital. Next June Shakespeare's Midsummer Night's 
Dream will be given with Mendelssohn's music, scenery, appropriate cos- 
tumes, etc. Pupils of the school will have the benefit of the preparatory 
drills. 

Entertainment. 

The School is prepared to supply the best local talent in Reading, 
Oreek Tableaux, Pantomime, etc., for 

CHURCH. LOD&E AND PARLOR ENTERTAINMESTS. 



For terms and fuller particulars apply to 

The School of English Speech, 

34 FRONT STREET, 

WORCESTER, MASS, 



Drink E. T. Smith & Co.^s Columbian JAVA, always Fresh Boasted. 31 

Italian Cream 

Whip a pint of cream, add J box of gelatine dissolved in l 
pint of cold water, 1 teaspoonful vanilla, 1^ cups sugar, J gill of 
wine. Beat well and pour into mold. 

Snowball Pudding. 

Take 1 pint boiling water, put in a kettle, then take 3 table- 
spoonluls of corn starch, I cup of sugar, a little salt. Use a little 
cold water to dissolve it, then stir in the boiling water. Have 
ready the whites of 2 eggs beaten to a froth, and when the other 
is cooked stir in the whites. Take from the fire and flavor, put 
in cups to cool. Take yolks of the eggs for cream, which is 
made the same as any snow pudding. 

Judge Peter's Pudding. 

^ box gelatine, ^ pint cold water, ^ pint boiling water, 2 cups 
sugar, juice of two lemons, 6 dates, 4 figs, 2 banannas, 6 almonds 
blanched. Dissolve gelatine in cold water, add the boiling 
water and sugar. When jelly is cool, before it has hardened, 
put in the fruit which has been cut in small pieces, stir and put 
in mold. Should be kept over night. Nice if served with cream 
or soft custard. 

Emily Pudding. 

Fill a dish half full of apples cored and sliced. Mix 1 cup 
molasses, 1 teaspoonful soda, a little salt, and flour enough to 
make it thick as gingerbread. Pour this over the apples and 
bake slowly one hour. Serve hot with whipped cream or sauce 

Oornueopia. 

3 eggs, 1 cup sugar, 1 cup flour, 2 tablespoonfuls cold water. 
Use 1 tablespoonful of the mixture for each n)und tin in which 
they are baked. While hot lap edges together to form cornu- 
copia, hold in shape until cool. Fill with whipped cream or jelly. 

Judge Peter. 

I box of gelatine, 2 oranges, 2 lemons, 6 figs, 9 dates. 10 al- 
monds, 5 English walnuts. Dissolve gelatine in 1 pint cold 
water for 1 hour, add J pint of boiling water, the juice of lemons 
and 1 orange, and 2 cups sugar. Let it stand until it begins to 
thicken. Cut the fruit, nuts, and other orange in small pieces, 
mix well with the jelly, and pour into molds. Serve with 
whipped cream. 

Rice Pudding. 

1 quart scalded milk, § cup stoned raisins, § cup sugar, butter 
size of an egg^ heaping tablespoonful raw rice. Bake four hours 
in a slow oven. 



32 



DAVIS fiRT CO. 



IS PEARL ST. 



Opposite Post Office. 



^t(;l7i9(j8 /^ND E[)(^r3V\T)(^s, 



-•^^^♦»->^»- 



ilflstt ii««i«i 



^f 1^^ 



J. B Crocker, 




» .1 



101 Canterbury Street, corner of Grand, 

SOUTH WORCESTER, 

Drugs, Medicines, Chemicals, 

FINE TOILET SOAPS, BRUSHES, COMBS, ETC. 
In great variety. 

PHYSICIAN'S PMESCMIPTIONB 

Caiefully Compounded by a Competent Pharmacist. 



Drink E. T. Smith & Co.^s Columbian JAVA, always Fresh Roasted. 33 

Circassian Pudding. 

Boil 6 tablespoonfuls dried bread crumbs in 1 pint of milk. 
Stir in the yolks of 3 eggs beaten with 6 tablespoonfuls of sugar 
and a piece of butter size of an English walnut. Take from the 
fire and stir in gradually tlie beaten whites of 3 eggs. VVhen 
the mixture is cool, pour into a buttered dish, and bake slowly. 
Flavor with a few drops of vanilla. 

Suet Pudding. 

1 cup chopped suet, 1 cup molasses, 1 cup milk, 3 cups flour, 
1 cup chopped raisins, 1 teaspoonful saleratus. Steam 3 hours. 

Baked Blueberry Pudding. 

Mix 1 cup of sugar with a piece ot butter the size of a large 
egg, 1 cup of milk, 1 teaspoonful cream of tartar, ^ teaspoonful 
saleratus, 2 cups flour, 1 coffee cup of blueberries well sprinkled 
with flour. Sauce. — ;\ cup of butter, beaten light, | of a cup of 
sugar, and the yolk of 1 Qgg. Mix well, and pour on it one cup 
of boiling water. When it cooks a little, add the beaten white 
of the Qgg^ stirring in a spoonful at a time. 

Bird's Nest Pudding. 
Pare and core 6 apples. Place in an earthen dish and fill the 
holes with sugar. Make a batter of 1 pint of milk, 2 table- 
spoonfuls of flour, and 3 eggs, i^our this over the apples, and 
bake till the fruit is soft. Serve with cream sauce. Cream 
Sauce. — \ cup butter, beaten till very light, 1 cup sugar, \ cup 
cream. Set the dish in a basin of hot water and stir until it is 
all creamy ; it will only take a minute or two. 

Batter Pudding. 

X 1 egg, \ cup milk, 2 teaspoonfuls cream tartar, 1 teaspoonful 
saleratus, flour enough as for cake. Quarter 4 or 5 apples, turn 
the batter over them, and bake an hour. 

Delicate Pudding. 

\ cup raw rice boiled in \\ cups of water. VVhen it is nearly 
done add 2 cups of milk, and cook until the rice is soft. Add 
the yolks of 4 eggs beaten with \ cup of sugar, a little salt, and 
\ teaspoonful extract ot vanilla. Take from the fire and stir in 
the beaten whites of two eggs. Make a meringue of the 
remaining whites beaten with \ cup of sugar. Spread over the 
top and set in the oven to brown. 

Oxford Pudding. 

Pare and quarter 4 large tart apples and boil in so little water 
that when done no water remains. Mash, and add 1 tablespoon- 

3 



34 



IF . . . 
YOU . 
WANT 

Success in Cooking, don't forget the 



Tin Boxes 

SPICES. 



-•>5«^*^>-X»- 



Tfhey 'h.eep tTtetr strength. 

A.S good nesKt yeccr as this. 



Drink E. T. Smith & Co.\s Columbian JAVA, always Fresh Roasted. 35 

ful melted butter, I cup sugar, (more if the apples are very 
sour), I cup of fine bread crumbs, the yolks of 4, and the whites 
of 2 eggs beaten light. Cover with a frosting made of the 
whites of 2 eggs and 1 cup of sugar. Bake until it is light brown. 

Snow Pudding* 

Soak half a box Plymouth Rock gelatine in half a cup of cold 
water two hours. Pour on to this nearly a pint of boiling 
water. Stir until the gelatine is dissolved, then add two cups 
sugar and the juice of 2 large lemons; stir this a few minutes, 
then add the whites of 6 eggs. Beat until it is white and stifi, 
then turn into molds and cool. (Sauce. — Boil 1 pint of milk, 
add the beaten yolks of 6 eggs, and \ cup of sugar. Salt, and 
flavor with vanilla. Serve ice cold. 

Indian Pudding. 

Take 1 quart of milk, pour all but 1 gill into a dish to scald. 
Mix a small cup of meal with the gill until smooth, and pour 
gradually into the boiling milk. Sweeten with molasses to taste 
(about a cupful). Add a little salt and cinnamon. Bake two 
or three hours. While baking, pour a tablespoonful of cold milk 
over the top, three or four times. 

White Pudding Sauce. 

1 cup milk, scald and thicken with 1 tablespoonful cornstarch, 
then add 1 cup of sugar and butter size of an egg beaten to a 
cream. Turn all over the beaten white of 1 egg just before 
serving. Flavor with vanilla or any other extract. 

Snow Pudding. 

\ box of Nelson's gelatine, or \ of Cox's, dissolved in 1 cup of 
cold water ; pour on 1 cup boiling water, add while hot 1 good 
cup sugar and juice of 3 lemons ; let cool, after straining. 
Stir occasionally, and before it hardens add whites of 3 eggs 
beaten stiff. Beat all until quite light ; when nearly stiff enough 
to drop, pour into a mold. Serve with a soft custard made of 
the yolks. ^ 

PASTRY. 



Frosted Lemon Pie. 

2 eggs, 1 cup sugar, 1 cup boiling water, 1 teaspoonf ul corn 
starch. Cook in a double boiler. Save the white of one egg 
for frosting. This makes one pie. Line a plate with rich puff 
paste and when the filling is cool add the frost. 



36 



CHARLES D. THAYER, 




i^^ 



LOWERS for all Occasions. 
LORAL TRIBUTES a specialty 



Telephone 371-3. 



Plenty of Flowers ^In^ays, 

Xj o 'vt est I='I^IGES. 

336 MAIN STREET. 

Greenhouses No. 8 Ripley Street. 



W. A. ENGLAND, 

Wholesale and Retail Dealer in 

WATCHES, DIAMONDS 

Jewelry, Silverware, 

. Clocks of all kinds. 



Fine 18 Karat Engagement and Wedding Rings. Wed- 
ding Presents in great variety. 

We make a specialty of repairing fine Watches and 
Clocks. Main Springs or Cleaning, $1.00. All Work 
Warranted. 

Spectacles and Eye Glasses carefully fitted. Try our 
50 cent, $1.00 and $1.50 Glasses. Best to be found in the 
City. Please give us a trial. 



394 Main St., - Worcester. 

Sign of Sidewalk Clock. 



Drink E. T. Smith & Co.^s Columbian JAVA, always Fresh Roasted. 37 

Marlboro Pie. 

1 pint sifted apple, 1 pint milk, 2 eggs, 2 tablespoonfuls melted 
butter, ^ wine glass of brandy or wine. Sweeten to your taste. 

Marlboro Pie. 

Pare, core, stew, and sift 6 apples. 6 eggs, 1 pint cream, i lb. 
melted butter, sugar to taste, grated rind of 2 lemons, juice of 1. 

Pastry. 

3 cups flour, 1 cup lard, salt, ^ teaspoonf ul Royal baking pow- 
der, sifted with the flour. Very cold water. Handle as little 
as possible. 

Cocoanut Pie. 

Line a pie plate with crust (as for squash pie). Boil 1 pint 
milk and ^ cup Schepp's cocoanut together. When boiled add 
1 teaspoon ful butter, and 2 eggs beaten with -J cup of sugar. 
Fill the plate and bake in a quick oven. 

Cocoanut Pie. 

1 pt. milk, I cup sugar, 2 eggs, a pinch of salt, butter the size 
of a walnut, I cup dessicated cocoanut. Bake with one crust. 

Lemon Pie. 

1 cup milk with 1 teaspoonful corn starch cooked in it, 1 cup 
sugar, juice and rind of 1 lemon, a little salt, 3 eggs; reserve the 
whites of 2 eggs for frosting. Cook the crust a Utile before 
putting in the custard. Frost with wtiites of eggs and 2 table- 
spoonfuls sugar. ' 

Lemon Pie. 

First bake pastry in pie plate. For the filling use 1 cup sugar. 
1 cup boiling water, yolks of 2 eggs, 2 large tablespoonfuls corn 
starch. Mix beaten yolks, lemon juice and grated rind together. 
Pour on to it the sugar and boiling water mixed together. Put 
all into a dish on the stove and stir in the moistened cornstarch. 
Cook two or three minutes. When cool pour on to pastry. 
Beat whites of eggs for frosting, and add a little sugar and 
lemon extract. 

Grandma's Pie. 

One half cup raisins, 1 cup chopped rhubarb, 1 cup sugar, 1 
^gg, salt, small piece of butter. 

Frosted Lemon Pie, 

Juice and grated rind of 2 lemons, 1| cups sugar, | cup milk, 
yolks of 3 eggs, 2 tablespoonfuls flour. Frosting. — Whites 3 
eggs, beaten stiff, 4 tablespoonfuls sugar. 



38 Drink E. T. Smith & Co.'.s Columhinn J A VA, always Fresh Roasted. 

Lemon Pie with Two Crusts. 

The juice and grated rind of 1 lemon, 1 cup sugar, 1 egg, 1 
spoonful flour, one-half cup milk or water. 

Mock Mince Pie. 

1 cup thick sour milk, I small cup sugar, 1^ cups of chopped 
raisins, 2 eggs, 1 small teaspoonful of spices. This will make 
two pies. 

Raisin Pie. 

1 cup raisins chopped and seeded, I cup cold water, 1 table- 
spoonful flour, piece of butter size of an egg. Bake with 2 crusts. 

CJiopped Paste. 

Chop 1 cup butter, 1 pint flour, i teaspoonful salt, uutil it looks 
like Indian meal. Wet with ice water. Roll out and roll up 
like jelly roll. Put on ice until wanted. 

Mock Mince Pie. (One pie.) 

2^ common crackers, pounded fine, I cup boiling water, I cup 
molasses, ^ cup butter, juice and grated rind of 1 large lemon, 
one-half cup chopped raisins. Add a little sugar if the lemons 
make it too tart, and spice to taste. Boil all together for about 
ten minutes. 



In^ 



FORHITllliEMFIil 

517 TO 523 MAiyST. 

•V # 20 and 22 Lincoln Sa. 

WORCESTER.MASS. ^ 



O. C. C. ADAMS & CO. 




OPTICAL GOODS, ARTIFICIAL EYES, EAR TRUMPETS. 

390 Main Street, 

WORCESTEK, MaS8. 



Drink E. T. Smith & Co.'s Columbian JAVA, always Fresh Roasted. 39 

Puffs. 

Nice for Picnics. 
Make nice pie-crust for turnovers, and fill with the following 
mixture: 1 cup raisins stoned and chopped, 1 egg, 1 cup sugar, 
tiny pinch salt, juice and grated rind of 1 lemon. 



CAKE. 



Walnut Cake. 

3 eggs, 2 cups sugar, 3 cups flour, 1 cup milk, f cup butter, 
not quite a cupful of English walnuts, broken up, 3 even tea- 
spoonfuls baking powder. Divide the trosting into small squares, 
laying half a nut in the middle of each square. 

Filling for Washington Pie. 

The juice and grated rind of 1 lemon, I cup sugar, J cup 
water. Boil sugar, water and lemon together, thicken with one 
dessert-spoonful corn-starch, and cook a few minutes. 

Walnut Cake 

1| cups sugar, i cup butter, 3 eggs, 2i cups flour, I cup milk, 
1 teaspoonful cream of tartar, one-half teaspoonful saleratus, 
1 cup nut meats chopped. 

Corn Starch Cake. 

Whites of 3 eggs, I cup corn starch, J cup butter, i cup milk, 

1 cup sugar, 1 cup flour, one-half teaspoonful cream of tartar, 
one-quarter teaspoonful saleratus. 

Cocoanut Loaf Cake. 

1 cup butter, 1 1 cups sugar, | cup milk, 1 cup grated cocoanut, 

2 cups flour, whites 4 eggs, 2 teaspoonfuls Royal baking powder. 

Nut Cake. 

§ cup sugar, i cup butter, I cup milk, 2 cups flour, 1 heaping 
teaspoonful Royal baking powder, 1 pound English walnuts, 1 
pound raisins chopped, 3 eggs, little salt. 

Marble Cake. 

Light Part. — 1 cup sugar, I cup butter, I cup milk, 1 tea- 
spoonful cream of tartar, one-half teaspoonful saleratus, whites 
of 3 eggs. One and one-half cups flour. 

Dark Part. — 1 cup sugar, I cup butter, I cup molasses, 2 
cups flour, 1 teaspoonful cream of tartar, one-half teaspoonful 
saleratus, yolks of 3 eggs. Spice to taste. 



40 Brink E. T. Smith & Co.^s Columbian JAVA, always Fresh Roasted. 

Lemon Jelly Cake. 

11 cups sugar, i cup butter, | cup milk, 3 eggs, 2^ cups flour, 

1 teaspoonful cream of tartar, one-half teaspoonlul saleratus. 
J^or the Jelly. — 1 egg, juice of 1 lemou, two small apples 

grated. Boil till thick as jelly. 

Poor Man's Fruit Cake. 

1^ cups brown sugar, 2 cups flour, 1 cup butter, 3 eggs, 1 cup 
choppod raisins, 3 tablespoonfuls sour milk, one-half teaspoonful 
soda, one-half cup blackberry jam. Bake in a moderate oven. 

Sponge Cake. 

^ 6ggs, yolks and whites beaten separately, 1 cup sugar, Ig cups 
flour, I teaspoonful soda, 1 teaspoonful cream of tartar, ] cup 
cold water. Flavor with vanilla. Bake half an hour. 

Raisin Cake. 

One-half cup sugar, ^ cup butter, 2 cup molasses, 2 eggs, 2 cups 
flour, 1 cup stoned raisins, 2 teaspoonful saleratus, clove, cinna- 
mon and nutmeg. 

Chocolate Cake. 

2 cups sugar, 1 cup butter, 1 cup milk, 3 cups flour, yolks of 
5 eggs and whites of 3, 1 teaspoonful yeast powder. Bake in 
two layers. M-osting for Chocolate Cake. — Beat the whites ot 

2 eggs with 1^ cups of powdered sugar. Add 2 squares of 
chocolate and a little vanilla. 

lioiled Frosting. 

1 cup granulated sugar, 1 cup boiling water, white of 1 egg, 1 
salt spoon cream of tartar. Boil the sugar and water (without 
stirring) about 5 minutes, or until the syrup taken up will rope. 
Beat the egg stiff", add cream of tartar, and then pour the 
boiling syrup over the egg in a fine stream, beating it well. 

Cream Cakes. 

1 cup water (boiling), I cup butter, 3 eggs, pinch saleratus, 1 
cup flour. Stir the butter into the boiling water, then the flour. 
Stir until the mixture is stiff" enough to drop from the spoon. 
Bake in a hot oven. Cream for filling. — 1 pint milk, 3 table- 
spoonfuls corn starch, \ cup snigar, 1 egg. 

Gingerbread. 

1 cup sour milk, 1 cup molasses, \ cup butter or lard, 2 eggs, 
1 teaspoonful ginger, 1^ teaspoonfuls soda, flour enough to make 
as thick as pound cake. Put ginger, butter and molasses 
together and make quite warm. 



Drink E. T. Smith & Co.'s Columhiaa JAVA, always Fresh Roasted. 41 

Spiced Gingerbread. 

1 cup butter, ] cup sugar, I2 cups molasses, 1 cup sour milk, 3 
^ggs, 1] teaspoonfuls soda, I teaspoonful of all kinds spice, 5 
cups flour. 

Nut Cake. 

I2 cups sugar, I cup butter, 2 cups flour, | cup milk, 1 tea- 
spoonful cream of tartar, one-half teaspoonful soda, whites of 4 
eggs, 1 cup nuts chopped. This makes 2 loaves, or 1 large one. 

Ladies' ( ake. 

1 cup sugar, ^ cup butter, I cup milk, 2 cups flour, I teaspoon- 
ful soda, 1 teaspoonful saleratus, 1 teaspoonful extract almond, 
whites of 3 eggs, added last. 

Chocolate Cake. 

2 cups sugar, 4 eggs, | cup of butter, l cup of milk, 2] cups of 
flour, 1 teaspoonful cream of tartar, one-half teaspoonful soda, 
J cake of Baker's chocolate. Bake slowly. This makes 2 loaves. 

Hot Water Sponge Cake. 

6 eggs, 2 cups sugar, 2 cups pastry flour, I cup boiling water, 
grated rind of one-half lemon, and 1 teaspoonful juice. Beat 
yolks and sugar to a froth, add the lemon, then the boiling water, 
next the whites beaten stifle, and last the flour. Bake in two 
sheets in moderate oven half an hour. 

Orange Cake. 

2 cups sugar, 2 cups flour, I cup water, yolks of 5 eggs, whites 
of 3 eggs, one-half teaspoonful soda, 1 teaspoonful cream of tar- 
tar, juice and grated rind of 1 orange. Bake for layer cake. 

Joining. — Whites of 2 eggs, 1 cup sugar, juice and grated rind 
of 1 orange. 

Grandmother's Cake. 

1 cup butter, 3 cups sugar, 5 eggs, 1 cup cream, 4 cups flour, 
raisins and spices to taste, one-half teaspoonful (small) of soda. 

Fruit Cake. 

4 coffee-cups flour, 3 coffee-cups sugar, 2 coffee-cups butter, 2 
lbs. currants, I lb. citron, 1 nutmeg, 1 teaspoonful each cloves 
and cinnamon, 8 eggs, (whites and yolks beaten separately), 1 
teaspoonful soda put in flour dry. This will make 2 loaves, 
baked in 2-quart tins. Bake two hours. 

Peach Cream Pie. ^ 

3 eggs, 1 cup sugar, Ig cups flour, 1 teaspoonful cream of tar- 
tar in the flour, 4 tablespoonfuls milk, one-half teaspoonful isoda. 



42 Drink E. T. Smith & Co.^s Columbian JAVA, always Fresh Roasted. 

2 tablespoonfuls melted butter. Cream for Peach Pie. — 2 cups 
sifted peach, 2 cups cream whipped very stiff; stir the two 
together, flavor with 1 teaspoonful vanilla. Sweeten to taste. 
Put layer between cake and on top. 

<Jheap Fruit Cake. 
1 cup butter, 3 eggs, 2 cups sugar, 5 cups flour, 1 cup molasses,. 
1 cup milk, 2 cups raisins, a little citron, 1 teaspoonful all kinds- 
of spice, 1 teaspoonful soda. This makes two loaves. 

Diiyton Cake. 

1 cup butter whipped to a cream, 2 cups sugar, add one at a 
time, 3 cups flour, \ cup milk, 5 eggs, whites and yolks beaten 
separately, 1 teaspoonful baking powder. Bake in 2 square tins. 
Frost 1 loaf with chocolate and to the other add a cup of fruity 
and frost with white frosting. 

White Cake. 

1 cup sugar, I cup butter, 2 cup milk, \\ cups flour, 1 teaspoon- 
ful cream of tartar, \ teaspoonful soda, whites of 2 eggs beaten 
to a froth. Flavor. 

Cocoauut Cake. 

I cup cocoanut soaked in | cup of milk fifteen minutes, f cup 
of sugar, 1 cup flour, 1 tablespoonful butter, 1 Qg^^ 1 teaspoonful 
cream of tartar, 1 teaspoonful soda. 

Dicolominie Cake. 

1 cup butter, 2 cups sugar, 5 eggs, 3 cups flour, 2 teaspoonfuls 
baking powder, \ lb. currants, \ citron cut fine, just a little nut* 
meg and cinnamon. 

Gentlemen's Favorite Cake. 

\\ cups sugar, \ cup butter, 3 eggs, 2 teaspoonfuls cream of tar- 
tar, 1 teaspoonful soda in one-half cup milk, 2 cups flour. Bake 
in 2 sheets. 

Pilling. — 1 Qgg^ 1 cup sugar, 3 grated apples, juice of 1 lemon 
and just a little grated peel. Mix and cook over teakettle until 
it becomes thick. Let it cool before putting in cake. Frost the 
top with boiled frosting. 

Boiled Frosting for Cake. 

1 cup granulated sugar, \ cup boiling water. Boil gently uutil 
the mixture stiings, (about 4 minutes). Pour slowly upon the 
white of 1 egg, beaten to a froth. Flavor with vanilla. 

Cup Calie, 

1^ cups sugar, \ cup butter, 2 cup milk, 2 cups flour, 4 eggs, 1 
teaspoonful yeast powder. 



Drink E. T. Smith d* Co.^s Columbian JAVA, always Fresh Roasted. 43 

Chocolate Cake. 

1 cup sugar, I cup butter, I cup milk, 1 cup flour, 2 eggs, I tea- 
spoonful saleratus, 1 teaspoonful cream tartar, 2 squares choco- 
late (Baker's). Melt the chocolate and stir into butter and sugar. 

White Cake. 
Ig cups sugar, I cup of butter, 1 cup milk (scant), 2] cups flour, 
with 3 tablespoonfuls corn starch, and 2 teaspoonfuls baking 
powder sifted 4 times. Lastly, add whites of 4 eggs beaten stiff. 

Sonr Milk Cake. 
I2 cups sugar, I cup butter, I cup sour milk, 2 teaspoonful saler- 
atus, I2 cups flour, juice of halt a lemon, yolks of 3, whites of 
2 eggs. 

Spice Cake. 
1 cup butter, I cup sugar, 2 eggs, 1 teaspoonful saleratus in 
one-half cup of milk, 2 cups flour, 2 teaspoonful each of cloves, 
cinnamon and nutmeg, 1 cup raisins. 

Sponge Cake. 
1 even tumblerful sugar, 1 heaping tumblerful flour, 5 eggs, 
beaten separately, 1 teaspoonful cream of tartar, I teaspoonful 
saleratus. 

Sour Milk Spice Cake. 
1 cup sour milk, 1 cup sugar, ] cup butter, 2 cups flour, 1 egg, 
1 teaspoonful saleratus, I cup chopped raisins, 1 teaspoonful 
cinnamon, ^ teaspoonful clove, ^ teaspoonful mace. 

Dayton Cake. 
1 cup butter, 2 cups sugar, 3 cups flour, I cup milk, 1 tea- 
spoonful cream of tartar, I teaspoonful saleratus, 5 eggs. 

Fruit Cake. 
1 cup butter, 2 cups sugar, 3 cups flour (heaping), 1 cup milk, 
scant teaspoonful saleratus, raisins, currants, and citron to fill a 
large cup, a little nutmeg, large spoonful of brandy. 

Cup Cake. 
1 cup sugar, 2 eggs, I cup butter, IJ cups flour, ^ cup milk, ^ 
teaspoonful soda, cinnamon, nutmeg, and salt, 1 cup of raisins, 
stoned and chopped. 

Cocoauut Cake. 
1 cup sugar, I cup butter, I cup milk, 1 cup cocoanut, 1| cups 
flour, 3 eggs, 1 teaspoonful cream tartar, J teaspoonful saleratus. 

Lemon Cake. 
1 lb. of sugar, 1 lb. flour, J lb. butter, 7 eggs, grated rind and 
juice of 2 lemons, 1 tumbler currants, saleratus as big as a pea. 
Will make two loaves. 



44 Drink E. T. Smith & Co.'s Cvlnmbian JAVA, always Fresh Roasted. 

Dried Apple Cake. 

2 cups dried apple soaked over night, then chopped and sim- 
mered 3 hours in 1] cups molasses, 2 cups milk, 2 eggs, 2 tea- 
spoonfuls saleratus, spice of all kinds, salt, 5 cups flour, 2 cups 
sugar, 1 cup butter. This makes 2 loaves. 

Railroad Cake. 

1 cup sugar, 3 eggs, 3 tablespoonfuls melted butter, 3 table- 
spoonfuls milk, ^ teaspoonful soda, I teaspoonful cream of tartar, 
2 cups flour. Use lemon or other flavoring. 

Cocoanut Cream. 

Cake Fillmg. — 1 cup raisins stoned and chopped fine, \ cup 
xihopped almonds, \ cup grated cocoanut, white of 1 esjg beaten 
stiff. 



COOKIES. 



Sour Cream Cookies. 

1 cup rich sour cream, 1 cup sugar, salt, 1 teaspoonful salera- 
tus, flour^enough to roll thin. Bake in a quick oven. 

Molasses Cookies. 

1 cup molasses, 1 cup sugar, 1 cup hot water, \ cup butter, 1 
•dessert-spoonful saleratus, \ teaspoonful each ginger and cinna- 
mon. Mix soft enough to drop on buttered tin. Quick oven. 

Sugar Cookies. 

2 cups sugar, 1 cup butter, 2 eggs, \ cup cold water, \ tea- 
spoonful saleratus, flour. Roll very thin. 

Criuger Snaps. 

1 cup molasses, 1 cup sugar, 1 cup butter or drippings. Melt 
all together, and pour on to 1 qt. flour. Dissolve 1 teaspoonful 
-saleratus in a large spoonful of vinegar, \ teaspoonful each of 
ginger and cinnamon. Add flour enough to mix quite stiff. 
Roll very thin. 

Sugar Cookies. (Very nice). 

\ cup butter, 1 cup sugar, \ cup milk, 1 egg, 2 even teaspoon- 
fuls baking joowder. Flour to roll out thin. Cream the butter 
and sugar, add the <i^^,^ well beaten, the milk and baking pow- 
der, mixed with 2 cups of flour, then enough more flour to roll 
-out. By adding 1 cup grated cocoanut a nice cookie is made. 

Cookies. 

2 cups sugar, 1 cup butter, 3 Q^^^<^ 4 tablespoonfuls water, 1 
teaspoonful soda. Roll out thin and bake immediately. 



Drink E. T. Smith <£ Co.^s Columbian JAVA, always Fresh Roasted. 45- 



Drop Cookies. 

1 cap sugar, ^ cup butter, 2 egors, 2 cups flour, 2 large table- 
spoonfuls milk, 2 heaping teaspoonfuls baking powder. Drop 
a teaspoonful on buttered tins. If liked, sprinkle sugar on top 
and flavor. 

DOUGHNUTS, FRITTERS, &c. 

Buckwheat Oriddle-cakes. 

3 cups buckwheat, I2 cups flour, 1 quart tepid water, I com- 
pressed yeast-cake. In the morning, just before frying, add ^ 
teaspoonful saleratus. 

PlaiQ Griddle-cakes, 

Make a thin batter over night with white flour, 1 qt. milk, 
1 egg, one-half yeasL cake. Add a little saleratus and salt just 
before frying. Very nice. 

Rye Drop-cakes. 

1 cup rye, 1 cup Indian meal, 1 egg, 1 cup flour, small tea- 
spoonful soda, milk to mix soft. Drop from spoon into hot fat. 

Good Raised Doughnuts. 

1 egg, 1 cup sugar, 3 tablespoonfuls butter, 3 tablespoofuls 
home made yeast, 1 cup milk, spice, nutmeg, etc. 

English Puffs. 

Boil 1 pint of milk, and while it is boiling stir in flour enough 
for the spoon to stand up in the batter. When cold, add ] a 
tablespoontul melted butter,a little salt, and 6 eggs, one at a time 
without beating. Drop from a spoon into hot lard (or cottolene) 
and fry a light brown. Sprinkle sugar over them as soon as 
they are taken from the fat, and serve at once, without sauce. 

Pancakes. 

I2 pints sour milk, 3 eggs, 2 teaspoonfuls saleratus, IJ cups 
molasses. Mix hard enough to drop in the hot fat with half rye 
and half Indian meal, and salt. Hot fat or poor cakes. 

Corn Fritters. 

2 cups grated corn, 2 crackers rolled fine, 2 eggs, whites and 
yolks beaten separately. Fry like oysters. Canned corn can be 
used as well if put through a meat chopper, 1 can making 2 
cups of corn. 

Apple Fritters. 
2 eggs, 1 teaspoonful melted butter, 1 cup milk, 2 teaspoon- 
fuls baking powder, 1 teaspoonful soda, enough flour for a stiff 



46 Drink E. T. Smith <fc Co.'.s- Columbian JAVA, nhoai/fi Fresh Roasted. 

batter. Pare aj3ples, core and slice them and mix with batter, 
and fry slowly in hot fat. When done sprinkle with sugar. 
Serve hot. 

Doughnuts. 

1 cup sugar, 2 eggs, 1 cup milk, 2 small teaspoonfuls cream of 
tartar, 1 small teaspoon ful saleratus. If the milk is not rich, 
add a little melted butter; salt and a little cinnamon. Mix 
quite soft with Haxall flour. 

Doughnuts. 

1 coffee-cup sweet milk, 2 eggs, butter size of a walnut, 2 
heaping teaspoonfuls Royal baking;- powder, cinnamon or nutmeg 
to taste. Fry in hot lard or cottolene, turning frequently. Have 
the dough as soft as can be handled. 

Doughnuts. 

1 cup sugar, 1 egg, | cup sour milk, 1 teaspoonful cream of 
tartar, 1 teaspoonful soda, a little salt and nutmeg, flour enough 
to mix soft. 

PRESERVES. 



Tomato Preserves. 

3 lbs. of tomato peeled and cut, the juice and grated rind of 
^lemons. Cook all together 1 hour, then add 4 lbs. sugar, some 
pieces of ginger root, and boil about half an hour, or until the 
sauce is clear and nearly jellied. This is very nice. 

Grape Jelly. 

Heat and crush the grapes in a kettle and cook until done ; 
then drain through a sieve, but not press through. To each pt. 
of juice allow 1 lb. of heated sugar. Boil rapidly 5 minutes, 
then add sugar and boil 3 minutes longer. 

Brandy Peaches. 

1 lb. peaches, l pound sugar. Dissolve the sugar in a little 
water. Put in your peaches, and when you can push a broom 
corn through them easily, take them off the fire and let them 
cool. Let the syrup cool, and add as much brandy as syrup. 
Seal them up tight. 

Preserved Pears. 
^ 8 pounds sliced pears, 4 pounds granuhted sugar, 1 oz. white 
ginger root, 4 sliced lemons. Soak ingredients" together over 
night. Boil till clear. 



Drink E. T. Smith & Co.''s Columbian JAVA, always Fresh Roasted. 47 

Pickled Peaches. 

Make syrup of 1 qt. vinegar and 6 lbs. sugar. Boil and skim, 
then add 1 ounce whole cloves. Pare 1 peck of ripe but not 
soft fruit. Boil in syrup till tender. This fills 6 quart jars. 

Apple Ginger. 

4 lbs. each of apples and sugar. Make a syrup of the sugar 
with a pint of water. Chop the apples very fine, with one oz. 
green ginger, or, if you cannot get that, use white ginger root. 
Put in the syrup with the grated rind of four lemons, and boil 
slowly 2 hours or until it looks clear. 

Spiced Rhubarb. (Good.) 

Peel and slice the rhubarb and weigh it. Put it in a porcel- 
ain kettle, and place where it will heat gradually until the juice 
flows freely. Bring forward on the stove and boil gently half an 
hour. Dip out half the juice and keep warm. Add to the 
cooked fruit 2 lb. sugar for each lb. of rhubarb used, and also to 
each pound allow 1 teaspoonful cloves, and 2 cinnamon. If too 
thick, reduce with the warm juice. It should not be quite so 
thick as jam. Simmer for ten minutes and pour into glass jars. 
When cool, wrap each jar in thick paper. Keep in cool, dryplace. 

To Can Corn. 

To 8 pints of cut corn add 3 pints of water and boil 20 min- 
utes. Then add | of a pint of table salt, and boil two or three 
minutes. Can immediately while boiling. It will keep a long 
time in glass cans. Sweet corn is the best. To prepare it soak 
or wash thoroughly till all the brine is out. Then season with 
butter, milk and j^epper. 

CONFECTIONS. 



Kisses. 

Beat the whites of 3 fresh eggs to a stifle froth, add 6 table- 
spoonfuls powdered sugar. Flavor with vanilla. Have ready 
a buttered pan, in which to lay a white paper, drop on with a 
teaspoon, and sift granulated sugar over them. Bake in a slow 
oven half an hour. 

Glace Nuts and Fruits. 

Boil 2 cups sugar and 1 cup of boiling water till it threads. 
Add 2 cup vinegar, and boil until when tried in ice water it will 
crack between the teeth. With buttered forks dip the nuts or 
fruit into the syrup, and drop on to buttered tins. 



48 Drink E. T. Smith & Co.^s Columhian JAVA, always Fresh Roasted. 

Cand.y* 

2 cups sugar, I cup water, 2 teaspoonfuls vinegar, piece of 
butter the size of an egg. Don't slir alter it melts. Pour in 
buttered pans, and cut in squares. 

Butter Scotch, 

2 cups brown sugar, 1 cup water, 2 even tablespoonfuls butter. 
Boil sugar and water till hard enough to break when tried in 
water; then add melted butter, and pour into a buttered dish. 
Do not stir while cooking. 

Chocolate Creams. 

Melt one square unsweetened chocolate with 1 teaspoonful 
water, add an equal quantity melted fondant, and in this mixture 
dip white balls ot tondant flavored with vanilla. Cool on but- 
tered paper. Be careiul not to let the chocolate cook ; it must 
melt only, and it is better to put it in a dish over the steam of 
the tea-kettle. To prepare the fondant. — Boil 2 cups granulated 
sugar and 1 scant cup boiling water, till it threads, when it can 
be gathered in a soft ball when dropped in ice water. When 
lukewarm, beat until thick enough to knead ; work until smooth; 
knead in the hands by squeezing, pressing and rolling, till it 
looks and feels much like lard. Fondant makes an excellent 
frosting. A layer of chocolate over it makes a chocolate cream 
frosting which is delicious. 

Chocolate Caramels. 

1 cup sugar, 1 cup molasses, 1 cup chocolate, grated, 1 cup 
milk, 2 cup butter, 1 teaspoonful vanilla. Boil briskly for 20 
minutes. Pour in^buttered pans ; when cool mark off in squares. 

Chocolate Caramels. 

5 scant cups granulated sugar, ] lb. unsweetened chocolate, 1 
cup cream or milk, and 3 tablespoonfuls butter. Boil all to- 
gether twenty minutes, stirring meanwhile, then try in cold 
water; if it will crack it is done. If cooked a little longer it 
will be sugary. 

Cream Peppermints. 

Boil 2 cups granulated sugar and 2 cup boiling water five min- 
utes. Add a few drops oil of i^eppermint. Beat to a cream, 
and drop on buttered pa])er. 

Checkermints are made in the same way, only colored pink 
with cochineal, and flavored with wintergreen. 

For Chocolatemints, add a few drops of melted chocolate to 
che boiled sugar and water and flavor with vanilla. 



Drink E. T. Smith & Co.^s Columbian JAVA, always Fresh Roasted. 49 

Easy Candy. 

The white of an egg, an equal quantity of water and confec- 
tioners' sugar. Put between walnuts, dates, etc. 

Nut Meringues. 

Beat whites of 3 eggs to a froth, add 1 saltspoonful cream of 
tartar, and continue beating until stiff. Add | cupful powdered 
sugar and ^ cupful chopped walnuts. Drop on buttered paper 
and bake in a very slow oven 30 minutes. 



TABLE OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES. 

16 Tablespoonfuls of liquid = 1 Cup. 

12 T^ablespoonfuls of dry material = 1 Cup. 

4 Cups of liquid = 1 Quart. 

4 Cups of flour = 1 Pound or 1 Quart. 

2 Cups of solid butter == 1 Pound. 

2 Cups of granulated sugar = 1 Pound. 
2^ Cups of powdered sugar = 1 Pound. 

3 Cups of meal — 1 Pound. 

1 Pint of milk or water = 1 Pound. 
1 Pint of chopped meat packed solidly = 1 Pound. 
9 Large eggs or 10 medium eggs = 1 Pound. 
1 Round tablespoonful butter = 1 Ounce. 

1 Tablespooiiful of liquid = i Ounce. 

2 Round tablespoonfuls of flour = 1 Ounce. 
2 Round tablespoonfuls of sugar = 1 Ounce. 



TIME TO COOK MEATS, VEOETABIES, ETC. 

Beef Sirloin, Rare. — Eight minutes for each pound. 

Beef Sirloin, Well done. — Ten to fifteen minutes for each pound. 

Lamb, Well done. — Fifteen minutes for each pound. 

Mutton, Rare. — Ten to twelve minutes. 

Mutton, Well done. — Fifteen to eighteen minutes. 

Pork, Well done. — Twenty-five to thirty minutes. 

Veal, Well done. — Eighteen to twenty minutes. 



50 Drink E, T. Smith & Co.'s Columbian JAVA, always Fresh Roasted, 

Chicken, weighing from three to five pounds.— One and one-half hours. 

Turkeys, weighing from nine to twelve pounds,— Three and one-half hours. 

Fish of average thickness, weighing from six to eight pounds.— One hour. 

Plain Cake.— Twenty to forty-five minutes. 

Cookies.— Ten to twelve minutes. 

Plum Pudding.— Three hours. 

Pies with two crusts.— Thirty to forty minutes. 

Bread.— Forty to sixty minutes. 

Biscuit.— Ten to eighteen minutes. 

String Beans.— One and a half to two hours, in cold water. 

Shell Beans.— One to two hours, in cold water. 

Corn. — Twenty to thirty minutes, in boiling water. 

Asparagus.— Fifteen to eighteen minutes in boiling salted water. 

Peas.— Fifteen to twenty minutes, in cold water. 

Potatoes.— Twenty to thirty minutes, in boiling water. 

Cauliflower.— Thirty to forty minutes. 

Cabbage.— Thirty to forty-five minutes. 



DIRECTIONS FOR RESTORING PERSONS APPARENTLY 
DEAD FROM DROWNING. 

Loosen all tightf articles of clothing about the neck and chest. Re- 
move the froth and mucus from the mouth and nostrils. Hold the body, 
for a few seconds only, with the head hanging down, so that the water 
may run out of the lungs and windpipe. See that the tongue is pulled 
forward if it falls back into the throat. By taking hold of it with a hand- 
kerchief it will not slip. 

If breathing has ceased, or nearly so, it must be stimulated by pres- 
sure of the chest with the hands, in imitation of the natural breathing, 
forcibly expelling the air from the lungs and allowing it to re-enter and 
expand them by the elasticity of the ribs. This is the most important 
step of all. To do it readily, lay the person on his back with a cushion or 
some firm substance under his shoulders; then press with the flat of the 
hands over the lower part of the breast bone and the upper part of the 
abdomen, keeping up a regular repetition and relaxation of pressure twenty 
or thirty times a minute. A pressure of thirty pounds may be applied 
with safety to a grown person. 

Rub the limbs with the hands or dry cloths constantly, to aid the 
circulation and keep the body warm. As soon as the person can swallow, 
give warm drink. 



Drink E. T. Smith & Co.'' 8 Columbian JAVA, always Fresh Roasted. 51 

JEMEJROENCIES. 
What shall we do before the Doctor arrivett? 

In the limited space the compiler of this useful little book has allowed 
me, I shall confine myself to suggestions on those diseases which frequently 
occur, the first and second in infancy and childhood, the latter in most 
cases between the ages of fifty and seventy. 

There is probably no disease that so strikes terror to the heart of 
father and mother as croup. It often comes on suddenly with hoarseness 
and a short dry cough, which soon grows metallic or " brassy," and the 
difficulty of breathing quickly increases and is most distressing, the child 
seeming to fight for breath and to require all its strength to force the air 
in and out of its chest. The face is flushed, and the voice and breathing 
make a peculiar sound, which once heard is never forgotten. 

Keep the child in a warm room and apply hot water compresses to the 
throat, changing them every ten minutes until medical aid arrives. Spas- 
modic croup is usually relieved in a short time. Membranous croup is of 
much more rare occurrence, but often fatal. 

Convulsions is another disease which has usually a sudden onset, and 
is alarming to both family and physician. When convulsions occur send 
for a doctor at once. In the meantime seek to learn the cause of the 
attack, whether from disordered dentition, whooping cough, or indigestible 
matter in the stomach. If the latter, give the patient something to throw 
it off. Strong salt and water is usually effective, or add a little mustard 
to the water. If the child is feverish, put it in a hot bath, temperature of 
100 degrees Fahrenheit. Do not trust to your hand to judge of the 
warmth of the water, lest in your haste and excitement you may put the 
child into too hot water, and scald the unconscious little patient. That 
very thing has been done. 

While the child is in the bath, place a sponge or cloth wet in cold 
water on its head. The bath should last from ten minutes to half an hour. 
Then wrap the little one in warm flannel, and if the head is still hot, 
continue the cold applications. It is hoped by this time the physician has 
arrived to assume the burden of responsibility in the case. 

Apoplexy is another grave disease which is accompanied with sudden 
loss of sense and motion, though the mechanical action of the heart and 
lungs still continues. A person attacked falls suddenly and lies without 
moving. Unconsiousness is usually complete for some seconds, minutes 
or hours. During the coma the breathing is commonly stertorous, and the 
pulse slow and full, the head hot, and the face more or less dark or flushed. 



52 Drink E. T. Smith <fe Co.'s Columhian JAVA, always Presh Roasted. 

The most that can be done until the doctor comes is to place the 
patient in a semi-prone position, so the head will be raised. Relieve ten- 
sion of all bands about the throat, chest and abdomen, and apply cold 
compresses to the head. 

In all emergencies remember that common sense, combined with a clear, 
cool head, is of the first importance in both nurse and medical attendant. 
Little does it matter how great our knowledge if we cannot make good use 
of it when needed. 



REMEDIES AND HEALTH HINTS. 

For dust in the eyes avoid rubbing ; dash water into them. 

Remove cinders, etc., with the round point of a lead pencil. 

If an artery is cut, compress above the wound ; if a vein is cut, com- 
press below. 

If choked, get upon all fours and cough. 

For light burns dip the part in cold water ; if the skin is destroyed, 
cover with varnish. 

Smother a fire with carpets ; water will often spread burning oil, and 
increase the danger. 

Before passing through smoke, take a full breath, and then stoop low; 
but if carbon is suspected, walk erect. 

Suck poison wounds, unless your mouth is sore, enlarge the wound, 
or, better, cut out the part without delay. Hold the wounded part as long 
as can be borne to a hot coal or the end of a cigar. 

For apoplexy, raise the head and body ; for fainting, lay the person flat. 



CULINARY HINTS. 



There is a greenness in onions and potatoes that renders them hard to 
digest. For health's sake put them in warm water for an hour before 
cooking. 

Single cream is cream that has stood on the milk twelve hours. It is 
best for tea and coffee. Double cream stands on its milk twenty-four 
hours, and cream for butter frequently stands forty-eight hours. Cream 
that is to be whipped should not be butter cream, lest in whipping it 
change to butter. 



Drink ^, T. Smith & Co.^s Columbian JAVA, always Fresh Roasted. 53 

The only kind of stove with which you can preserve a uniform heat 
is a gas stove ; with it you can simmer a pot for an hour, or boil at the 
same rate. 

To beat the whites of eggs quickly, put in a pinch of salt. The 
cooler the eggs the quicker they will froth. 

In boiling eggs, put them in boiling water ten minutes and then put 
them in cold water. This will prevent the yolks from turning black. 

In making any sauce, put the butter and flour in together, and your 
sauce will never be lumpy. 

Tepid water is produced by combining two-thirds cold and one-third 
boiling water. 

To make macaroni tender, put it in cold water and bring to a boil. 

Old potatoes may be freshened by plunging them into cold water be- 
fore cooking them. 



USEFUL, HINTS. 



Never leave the cover off the tea canister. 

Clean piano keys with a soft cloth dipped in alcohol. 

Egg stains on silver can be removed with table salt and a wet cloth. 

Leather chair seats may be revived by rubbing them with well beaten 
white of egg. 

Salts of lemon will take spots out of linen, and also remove stains 
from wood. 

Never wash bronzed lamps, chandeliers, etc. Dust them with a soft 
woolen cloth. 

A very thin coat of what is known as French picture varnish will 
restore chromos and oil paintings to their original brightness. 

Hold a hot shovel over furniture to remove white spots. 

Salt dissolved in alcohol will remove grease spots from cloth. 

To extract ink from wood, scour with sand wet with water and am- 
monia, then rinse with strong saleratus water. 

Mildew can be removed by soaking in buttermilk, or putting lemon 
juice and salt upon it and exposing it to the hot sun. 

Take a bucket of fresh water into your bedroom every night, and let 
it remain uncovered. It will absorb all poisonous gases. 

Paint stains that are dry and old may be removed from cotton or 
woolen goods with chloroform. First cover the spot with olive oil or 
butter. 



54 Drink E. T. Smith & CoJ's Columbian JAVA, always Fresh Roasted. 

Zinc is best cleaned with hot, soapy water, then polished with kerosene. 

It is well to keep large pieces of charcoal in damp corners and dark 
places. 

If the hands are rubbed on a stick of celery after peeling onions, the 
odor will be entirely removed. 

Chloride of lime should be scattered at least once a week under sinks 
and in all places where sewer gas is liable to lurk. 

The white of an egg is said to be a specific for fish bones sticking in 
the throat. It is to be swallowed whole, and will carry down a bone easily. 

The metallic tops of kerosene lamps can be cleaned by soaking in water 
in which beans have been boiled. 



I N DE X 



Page 

Soups, - - - - - -- - - 3 

Fish, -..-..... 5 

Meats, ------ ---7 

Salads, etc. --,-_. --9 

Eggs,- 11 

Relishes, ....----13 

Muffins, Gems, Breads, etc. ------ 17 

Desserts, --._-.. -21 

Pastry, ---------35 

Cakes, 39 

Cookies, __.----- 44 

Doughnuts, Fritters, etc. ------ 45 

Preserves, -__.---- 46 

Confections, --------47 

Table of Weights and Measures, _ - - . . 49 

Time to Cook Meats, Vegetables, etc. - - - - 49 

How to Restore Drowning Persons, ----- 50 

Emergencies, --------51 

Remedies and Health Hints, ------ .52 

Culinary Hints, ------- 52 

Useful Hints, - - 53 



