Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on Hbrary shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http : //books . google . com/| 



i 



The Arthur and Elizabeth 

SCHLESINGER LIBRARY 

on the History of Women 

in America 

RADCLIFFE COLLEGE 



Given ty Ann Robert 

in honor of 

Dorothy CrantSall 



FAVORITE DISHES. 



•^ > > FAVORITE DISHES 

A COLUMBIAN AUTOGRAPH SOUVENIR 
COOKERY BOOK * -« ^ .« * 

OVER THREE HUNDRED AUTOGRAPH RECIPES, 
AND TWENTY-THREE PORTRAITS, CONTRIBUTED 
SPECIALLY BY THE BOARD OF LADY MANAGERS 
OF THE WORLD'S COLUMBIAN EXPOSITION 



MAY ROOT-KERN 
MELLIE INGELS JULIAN 
LOUIS BRAUNHOLD 
GEORGE WHARTON EDWARDS 



COMPILED BY 

CARRIE V. SHUMAN, CHICAGO 

189J 



M 



Copyrighted* 1898, 
By CARRIE V. SHUMAN, 



ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. 



JR. R. Donnelley &* Sons Co, 
Printers. 



 ' . •. . • I 



k 






'\ c 



1 

Favorite Dishes is due to the fact that the noble women 
who have labored for the best interests of mankind and 
womankind, in the development of the Women! s Department of 
the World's Columbian Exposition, found time to contribute 
this collection of recipes, as a means of enabling the compiler 
to open an additional avenue for women to provide the neces- 
sary funds to pay the expenses of a visit to the Exposition, 

The compiler is most happy to congratulate the Lady 
Managers and Lady Alternates of every State and Territory 
of the United States, including Alaska, upon the fact that their 
prompt responses to the statement of the object of this publica- 
tion bring them together in this place as the exponents of the 
Art of Cookery, at this stage of its best development in this 
country, and as cheerful assistants of women who need the 
encouragement and blessings of their more fortunate sisters. 

It is to be regretted that all of the letters of commendation 
cannot be published, but as they would alone constitute a fair 
sized volume, only a few have been inserted. 



PORTRAITS. 



Mrs. Potter Palmer. 

Mrs. Isabella Beecher Hooker. 

Lady Henry Somerset. 

Mrs. Francis B. Clarke. 

Miss Katharine L. Minor. 

Mrs. Richard J. Oglesby. 

Mrs. James P. Eagle. 

Mrs. Helen M. Barker. 

Mrs. S. E. Verdenal. 

Mrs. J. Frank Ball. 

Mrs. William Reed. 

Mrs. Matilda B. Carse. 



Mrs. Virginia C. Meredith. 
Countess of Aberdeen. 
Miss Frances E. Willard. 
Mrs. John A. Logan. 
Mrs. Russell B. Harrison. 
Mrs. Edwin C. Burleigh. 
Mrs. Laura E. Howey. 
Mrs. Susan G. Cooke. 
Mrs. James A. Mulligan. 
Mrs. Clara L. McAdow. 
Mrs. Ralph Trautmann. 
Mrs. Edward L. Bartlett. 



^SECOND EDITION.I 



TES differ as to which of the many kinds 

tea is the best, and yet the general use of 

iigHsh Breakfast and Oolong warrants the 

im mending of these two teas as standard, 

; Chniese have taught us the correct idea 

drinking ; to have it always freshly made, 

ter hoiling, and to steep the leaves at tahle. 

ahle can be easily equipped now with a boiler 

in silver or brass, with alcohol lamp underneath ; a tea 

caddy in china or silver, with teapot and cups before the 

hostess. 

No set formula can be prescribed for quantity to each 
cup, but it averages one-half teaspoon of tea leaves. 

Heat teapot by pouring in some hot water, let it stand 
a few moments and empty in a bowl for hot water on 
the table. Place tea leaves required in the pot, pour in 
boiling water, instantly replace the lid and let it steep a 
few minutes. It is then ready to serve. Use a small 



amount of sugar and no cream, as both cream and sugar 
detract from the correct flavor of tea. 

For "Five O'clock Tea" a "teaball" is recommended. 
The teaball is convenient at all times, but especially upon 
an occasion when guests are coming and going. Keep the 
water on tea table constantly boiling and the teaball partly 
filled with tea leaves. A cup of tea can then be brewed 
quickly by dropping the ball into the cup, pouring boiling 
water over it, holding it in the cup (slightly moving the 
teaball around through the water), until the color is satis- 
factoiy to the drinker's taste. In this way three or four 
cups of tea can be served quickly and the flavor of the 
tea leaves preserved. If agreeable to the taste, a slice of 
lemon can be added to each cup and a few drops of arrack 
to make tea d la Russe. 



To MA 

is not eas 

mvst be t 

strength. u>-.iv.i a..u ij...uui.. 

the chocolate with cold water in a jar on the range; pour 

in boiling ^vater, then add milk, stirring constantly. Serve 

as soon as it boils. When each cup is filled with the 

chocolate, place two tablespoons of ■whipped cream on top. 



prepi 
ger 1 

COCOi 

over 
for ( 
quail 
ofth 



^SiO» 



The standard mixture of coffee is Java and Mocha ; 

two-thirds Java and one-third Mocha, the former giving 

the strength, the latter the flavor. After roasting it should 

be kept in an air-tight 

can. Grind only so 

much each time as 

may be required. To 

one cupful of ground 

coffee add one beaten 

egg and four tablespoons of cold water ; mix thoroughly 

in coffee pot and pour in one quart of boiling water. Stir 

the coffee until it boils, then place it on the back of the 

stove where it will simmer for ten minutes. Add a dash 

of cold water ; wait a moment, then pour off carefully into 

silver coffee pot, which has been standing with hot water 

in it. 



Filippini's recipe for Black Coffee is as follows: "Take 
six scant tablespoonfuls of coffee beans and grind them 
in a mill. Have a well cleaned French coffee pot ; put 
the coffee on the filter, with the small strainer over, then 
pour on a pint and a half of boiling watei', little by little, 
recollecting at the same time that too much care cannot 
be taken to have the water boiling thoroughly. When all 
the water is consumed, put on the cover and let it infuse 
slightly, but on no account must it boil. Serve in six 
after-dinner ctips. Coffee should never be prepared more 
than five minutes before the time to serve." 



MRS. VIRGINIA C. MEREDITH 



steamed Brown Bread. 

(ALA OAKLAND FARM.) 

From Mrs. Virginia C. Meredith, of Indiana, Vice Chairman 
Executive Committee, and Lady Manager. 

It gives me great pleasure to send you an excelleat recipe for 
steamed bro-am bread far your Coliitabian Avtografk Cook Book. 

I have great sympathy -aiitk your flan, and sincerely hope that the 
ladies of oar Board -will respond cheerfnUy to your requests. 
Very sincerely. 



(^ j3€;e>t^<=^S-<^* 



One cupful of sweet milk; one cupful of sour milk; two 
cupf Ills of corn meal; one cupful of wheat flour; one -half 
cupful of New Orleans molasses; one teaspoonftil of soda. 

Steam three hours, 

Ught Bread. 

From Mrs. Governor James P. Eagle, of Arkansas, President of 
State Board and Lady Manager. 

Take one teacup of boiling water; stir in corn meal 
to make :i stiff mush; let stand over night in moderately 



14 FAVORITE DISHES 



warm place. Then take one cup of fresh milk and one of 
warm water and heat together to a simmer and add to this 
the prepared mush, one tablespoonful of sugar and one tea- 
spoonful of 'salt. To these ingredients add a little flour at a 
time, until you make a stiff batter. Place all in a milk-warm 
vessel of water, place near fire and keep warm until it rises — 
about six hours. To this yeast add flour to make a stiff 
dough, using one tablespoon of lard and a little salt. 
Keep warm till it rises and bake about an hour and a half. 




^/^«^ 



Franklin Qems. 

From Mrs. L. M. N. Stevens, of Maine, Lady Manager. 

Mix one -half pint of milk and one -half pint water, 
into which stir Franklin flour until about as thick as pan- 
cakes. Pour into a very hot, well buttered gem pan and 
bake in a quick oven. 



£^1 %hz^ 




Baking Powder Biscuit. 

From Mrs. Rollin A. Edgerton, of Arkansas, Secretary of State 

Board, and Lady Manager. 

To one quart of flour add two teaspoons of baking 
powder, one more of salt, and a tablespoon of lard; mix 



FOR THE TABLE, 15 



with sweet milk sufficient to roll out on board without stick- 
ing; cut with biscuit tin and bake quickly in hot oven. 



y'^s*^ ^:^i^;c^ /^ ^ 




French Rolls. 



From Mrs. Sallie Howard Bush, of Alabama, Alternate Lady 

Manager 

One and one -half lbs. of flour; four oz. of butter; one- 
half teacup of sweet milk; one -half cake of yeast; one 
teaspoonful of salt; four eggs beaten very light and added 
last. Set to rise and bake as other rolls. 



Risen Muffins. 

One quart of flour; one pint of sweet milk; one cake of 
yeast; three eggs; one tablespoonful of butter and one of 
sugar; one teaspoonful of salt. The yeast must be dissolved 
in a little of the milk. If desired for breakfast, they must 
be made the night before; if for tea, set them to rise about 
1 1 o'clock in the morning. When well risen, put them in 
the tin muffin rings that come especially for them and place 
in a moderately warm position, letting them stand about an 
hour before putting in to bake. 



1 6 FAVORITE DISHES 



Breakfast Rolls. 



From Miss Meta Telfair McLaws, of Georgia, Alternate Lady 

Manager. 

Take one - half cake of best yeast and dissolve in half a 
cup of tepid water. Pour this on some sifted flour — about 
half a pint in quantity — to which must be added more tepid 
water (or milk, if you like) until a thick batter is produced. 
Add to this batter a pinch of salt and a little sugar. Cover 
well with a thick cloth and set in a warm place to rise. In 
the morning add lard and enough flour to make a stiff 
dough. Now make into roll shape and arrange them in a 
tin pan. Set the rolls under the stove or near it until they 
rise again, before putting them in the oven to bake. Rolls 
should be made of best flour and the batter should be put in 
some earthen vessel when set to rise. 



Pocket-Book Rolls. 

From Mrs. Ida M. Ball, of Delaware, Lady Manager. 

One pint milk; one -half pint boiling water; salt and 
flour enough to make a sponge; one -half cake of com- 
pressed yeast. Rise for about two hours. Then add the 
white of one ^%% (beaten); mixed butter and lard the size 
of an ^%%\ one teaspoonful sugar. Stiffen with flour; 
make out into thick sheets of dough; cut out with a circular 
cutter; fold one edge of the biscuit, so cut, toward the center, 
putting a small piece of butter under the overlapping edge 



FOR THE TABLE. 1 7 



of dough. Put biscuit in pans to rise, and when light, bake 
in a quick oven. 




■^^.^2^ 



Potato Rolls. 



From Mrs. Theo. F. Armstrong, of Delaware, Alternate Lady 

Manager. 

One and one -half teacup of mashed white potatoes; 
one -half teacup of melted lard; one and one -half teaspoon 
of salt; one teacup of yeast; two eggs; one tablespoon of 
sugar. This is the sponge. Set to rise about nine o'clock 
in the morning; when light, put in enough flour to make a 
soft dough ; then let it rise again ; when light, roll out thick 
and cut in round cakes; put in pan and lighten again; bake 
in quick oven. 



Qraham Qems. 

From Mrs. Louise Campbell, of New Mexico, Alternate La<{y^ 

Manager. 

Four cups graham flour; one tablespoon of sugar;; 
pinch of salt; one teaspoon of soda, which dissolve in 
buttermilk; mix with buttermilk into a stiff batter; put inta 
hot gem irons and bake in a quick oven. 





l8 FAVORITE DISHES 



Com Cake. 

From Miss Hattie T. Hundley, of Alabama, Lady Manager. 

One pint of milk; half a pint of Indian meal; four eggs; 
a scant tablespoonful of butter; salt; and one teaspoonful of 
sugar. Pour the milk boiling on the sifted meal. When 
cold, add the butter (melted), the salt, the sugar, the yolks 
of the eggs, and, lastly, the whites, well beaten. Bake half 
an hour in a hot oven. It is very nice baked in iron or tin 
gem pans, the cups an inch and a half deep. — Mrs, Hender- 
son's Cook Book, 

Bachelors' Com Pone. 

From Mrs. Mary B. P. Black, of West Virginia, Alternate Lady 

Manager. 

One pint sifted corn meal; one pint buttermilk (or other 
sour milk or cream); two eggs, beaten separately; table- 
spoonful of butter and lard (half and half); little salt, and 
scant teaspoonful baking soda. Pour the buttermilk into the 
sifted corn meal, stirring until smooth, retaining a small 
quantity (half teacupful) of buttermilk to dissolve soda; add 
yolks of eggs, well beaten; then soda, having dissolved the 
same in the retained buttermilk, mixing well, while it effer- 
vesces; then lard and butter, either melted or cut into shreds; 
lastly, white of eggs, beaten to stiff froth. Bake in shallow 
pan, 20 or 25 minutes. 



FOR THE TABLE. 1 9 



Com Bread. 

From Mrs. T. J. Butler, of Arizona, Lady Manager. 

One cup of corn meal; one half cup of sugar; one cup 
of sweet milk; one and one -half spoonfuls baking powder; 
flour enough to niake a stiff batter. Bake in a quick oven; 





Corn Meal Muffins. 

From Mrs. Parthenia P. Rue, of California, Lady Manager. 

One teacupf ul of corn, meal ; one and one - half teacup- 
fuls of flour; two teaspoonfuls yeast powder; two table- 
spoonfuls sugar; one tablespoonful of butter; pne and one- 
half teacupf uls of milk; one q%% or two yolks of eggs. 




^^^. 



Baked Corn Bread. 

From Mrs. Minna ^ G. Hooker, of Vermont, Alternate Lady 

Manager. 

One teacup cream; one -quarter teaspoon soda; one cup 
flour; butter size of a walnut; one cup sugar; one cup 
Indian meal ; one ^%%* Granulated meal is the best. 



20 FAVORITE DISHES 



V 



Steamed Brown Bread. 

From Mrs. E. V. McConnell, of North Dakota, Lady Manager. 

Two cups corn meal; one cup flour; two cups sweet 
milk; one cup sour milk; two -thirds cup molasses; two 
teaspoons (even) soda; one tablespoon salt. Steam con- 
stantly for three hours. 



cf . >?:^cCr>^ . 4: 



Ridsed Brown Bread. 

From Mrs. Ellen M. Chandler, of Vermont, Lady Manager. 

Three pints corn meal; two pints shorts, or coarse 
flour; three-quarters cup yeast; one and one -half cups 
molasses; one and one -eighth quarts warm water. Let rise 
until it cracks on top. Steam six hours and bake slowly one 
hour. If wheat shorts cannot be procured, use one pint rye 
and one and one - half pints graham flour. 



Boston Brown Bread. 

From Mrs. Governor James P. Eagle, of Arkansas, President 

of State Board, and Lady Manager. 

One pint of bread sponge; one cup of warm water; 
three - fourths cup of molasses, in which is stirred one -half 
teaspoon of soda: one large teaspoonful of salt. Stir in 



MRS. JAMES F. EAGLE. 



FOR THE TABLE. 21 



sufficient quantity of graham flour to make a stiff batter, put 
in mould and let rise till quite light and then bake in mod- 
erate oven one hour. 




Strawberry Short Cake. 

From Mrs. Governor Edwin C. Burleigh, of Maine, Second 
Vice President, Board of Lady Managers. 

Mix a dough nearly as you would for cream -tartar 
biscuits, only put considerable shortening in. Roll thin; 
bake in a pan; when done, split it and put the berries 
(mashed in sugar) between. Whipped cream over the top 
makes it very nice. 

strawberry Short Cake. 

From Mrs. Augusta Truman, of California, Alternate Lady 

Manager-at-Large. 

Hull and rinse one quart of perfectly ripe berries; put 
in a bowl with one large cup of granulated sugar; cut — do 
not mash — with a silver spoon and set away in the ice-box 
for two hours. Make a rich biscuit dough, adding double 
quantity of butter; roll out one inch thick and bake in a 
deep pie -plate. When done, split quickly with a silver 
knife, using the knife as little as possible; spread the ben*ies 
on the lower section and cover with the upper; sift on some 



22 FAVORITE DISHES 



fine sugar and serve immediately, as this recipe is for hot 
short cake. 




<yz^^<^^^^^^Z^^^. 



Orange Short Cake. 

From Mrs. M. D. Owings, of Washington, Lady Manager. 

Orange shortcake^ is very nice. The only difficulty to 
overcome in making this toothsome dish is to get rid of the 
white fibers which intersect the pulp of the orange, and this 
is, after all, a very easy matter. To prepare the oranges, 
simply cut them in half, without peeling, and take out the 
lobes precisely as when eating an orange with a spoon. The 
shortcake is made like very short, soft biscuit and baked in 
a round tin in a quick oven. When it is done, split it, 
sprinkle sugar over the prepared oranges, put a layer on the 
under crust, replace the upper part, upon which put more of 
the prepared oranges and serve at once with cream. 



Cyfi .i!K On^ri^^x^ 



Sally Lunn. 

From Mrs. Margaret M. Ratcliffe, of Arkansas, Alternate 

Lady Manager. 

One pint of milk; three eggs, well beaten; salt; one 
large spoon of butter; half a teacup of yeast, and as much 
flour as will make a thick batter. Pour into a cake pan and 
place in a warm spot to rise. Bake in moderate oven. 
When done, cut with sharp knife crosswise twice, pouring 



\^ 



FOR THE TABLE, 23 



over each part drawn butter. Replacing the parts, cut then 
like cake, serving at once, while hot. This is a great favorite 
with Southerners. 



Ham Toast. 

From Mrs. Rosine Ryan, of Texas, Lady Manager-at-Large. 

Your enterprise commends itself to every woman who ftas the best 
interests of her sex uppermost in her thoughts. 

Among the happy recollections of my childhood ^ luncheon Ham Toast 
stands out temptingly clear. It was my mother's own, and I give it in 
preference to several others that occur to me. Most cordially yours^ 

Boil a quarter of a pound of lean ham; chop it very 
fine; beat into it the yolks of three eggs, half an ounce of 
butter and two tablespoonf uls of cream ; add a little cayenne ; 
stir it briskly over the fire until it thickens; spread on hot 
toast; garnish with curled parsley. 




Oat Meal. 



From Mrs. George Hoxworth, of Arizona, Alternate Lady 

Manager. 

Dampen the meal, put it iii a thin cloth and steam for 
thirty nifinutes. Keeps its flavor much better than when 
boiled. 



24 FAVORITE DISHES. 

Brewls. 

From Mrs. Frakcbs E, Uai-e, of Wvoming, Lady Manager. 
Take half a loaf of Bofttoii brown bread ; break in small 
pieces; put in an oatmeal kettle and cover with milk; boil to 
a smooth paste, about the consistency ol oatmeal. Eat hot, 
with sugar and cream. Nice breakfast dish. 



i^'tt^-t^<L(^ 6 TCo^^^^l^ 



Sandwkh Dressing. 

From Mrs. Mariam D. Cooper, of Montana, Alternate Lady 
Manager. 

Mix two tablespoons mustard with enough hot water to 
make smooth; three tablespoons olive oil; very little red or 
white pepper; salt; yolk of one egg; mix with hand and set 
aside to cool ; warm to spread. 



i-Ctn'^CK^'int- 



<0 -^ <»-« jj^^-^. 



pysfers 



Blue Points 
are the only proper 
oysters to ser\e for 
luncheon or dinner. 
They should al- 
ways be served in 
the deep shell, and 

if possible upon " oyster plates," but may be neatly served 
upon cracked ice, covered with a small napkin, in soup 
plates. The condiments are salt, pepper, cayenne, Tabasco 
sauce, and horse radish. A quarter of lemon is also 
properly served with each plate, but the gourmet prefers 
salt, pepper, and horse radish, as the acid of lemon does 
violence to the delicious flavor of the freshly - opened 
bivalve. Clams should be served in precisely the same 
way. 



Bouillon is made of beef, and must be rich and 
nutritious. Take ten pounds of good clear beef cut from 
the middle part of the ronnd. Wipe and cut tlie meat 
into pieces. Put this into one gallon of water and heat 
slowly; skim just as the water begins to boil. When 
this is done place the pot where it will simmer slowly for 
five or six hours. One hour before removing add two 
blades of celery, ten pepper corns, six cloves, small stick 
of cinnamon, and salt. Should one prefer it plain, do not 
put in the spices. Strain and cool. Before using, take 
off all fat. It is then ready to heat and serve m cups 
for luncheons and teas. 





The foundation of all excellent 
soup is a stock made from beef. 
For a dinner company heavy soup 
is not so desirable as a good, clear, 
rich soup, and I add a tried recipe 
from " Practical Cooking and Dinner 
Giving," called: 

Amber Soup. 

"A large soup bone (two pounds); a chicken; a small 
slice of ham; a soup bunch (or an onion, two sprigs of 
parsley, half a small carrot, half a small parsnip, half a stick 
of celery); three cloves; pepper; salt; a gallon of cold 
water; whites and shells of two eggs, and caramel for 
coloring. Let the beef, chicken and ham boil slowly for 
five hours, add the vegetables and cloves, to cook the last 
hour, having fried the onion in a little hot fat and then in it 
stuck the cloves. Strain the soup into an earthen bowl and 
let it remain over night. Next day remove the cake of fat 
on top; take out the jelly, avoid the settlings and mix into it 
the beaten whites of the eggs with the shells. Boil quickly 
for half a minute; then, removing the kettle, skim off care- 
carefully all the scum and whites of the eggs from the top^ 
not stirring the soup itself. Pass through a jelly bag, when it 

27 



28 FAVORITE DISHES 



should be very clear. Reheat just before serving, and add 
then a tablespoonf ul of caramel to give a rich color and flavor. 
Caramel — Take a cup of sugar and a tablespoon of 
water. Put in a porcelain kettle and stir constantly to pre- 
vent burning, until it has a bright brown color. Then add a 
cup of water, pinch of salt ; let it boil a few moments longer, 
cool, strain, and put away in a close -corked bottle — and it is 
always ready for coloring the soup. 




Mock-Turtle Soup. 

From Mrs. Beriah Wilkins, of District of Columbia, Fifth Vice 

President, Board of Lady Managers. 

• This soup should be prepared the day before it is to be 
served up. One calf's head, well cleaned and washed. Lay 
the head in the bottom of a large pot. One onion; six 
cloves; ten allspice; one bunch parsley; one carrot; salt to 
taste; cover with four quarts of water. Boil three hours, or 
until the flesh will slip easily from the bones; take out the 
head; chop the meat and tongue very fine; set aside the 
brains; remove the soup from the fire; strain carefully and 
set away until the next day. An hour before dinner take off 
all fat and set on as much of the stock to warm as you need. 
When it boils drop in a few squares of the meat you have 
reserved, as well as the force balls. To prepare these, rub 
the yolk of three hard boiled eggs to a paste in a wooden 
bowl, adding gradually the brains to moisten them ; also a 
little butter; mix with these two eggs, beaten light; flour 
your hands ; make this paste into small balls.; drop them into 
the soup a few minutes before removing from the fire. A 



FOR THE TABLE, 29 



tablespoonful of browned flour and brown sugar for color-' 
ing; rub smooth with the same amount of butter; let it boil 
up well; finish the seasoning by the addition of a glass of 
sherry. Serve with sliced lemon. 




Julienne Soup. 



From Mrs. Susan R. Ashley, of Colorado, Sixth Vice President, 

Board of Lady Managers. 

The day before needed, put two pounds of beef cut 
from the lower part of the round, into two quarts of cold 
water and let come slowly to the boil, skimming carefully 
until perfectly clear. When this point is reached, add a 
small onion, two stalks of celery, two cloves, and keep at the 
boiling point for seven hours; then strain into an earthen 
bowl and let cool until next day. A half hour before 
needed, skim off all the fat, add pepper and salt to taste; 
also a half pint of mixed vegetables \^hich have been cooked 
in salted water and cut in uniform dice shape. Let come to 
a boil, and serve. 




Noodle Soup. 

From Mrs. Frona Eunice Wait, of California, Alternate Lady 

Manager. 

To make a good stock for noodle soup, take a small 
shank of beef, one of mutton, and another of veal ; have the 



30 FAVORITE DISHES 



bones cracked and boil them together for twenty-four hours. 
Put with them two good sized potatoes, a carrot, a turnip, an 
onion, and some celery. Salt and pepper to taste. If liked, 
a bit of bay leaf may be added. When thoroughly well 
done, strain through a colander and set aside until required 
for use. For the noodles, use one egg for an ordinary 
family, and more in proportion to quantity required. Break 
the eggs into the flour, add a little salt, and mix into a rather 
stiff dough. Roll very thin and cut into fine bits. Let 
them dry for two hours, then drop them into the boiling 
stock about ten minutes before serving. 




(YiMj^ ^ ]4A/^u^ nHuA^ 



Com Soup. 

From Mrs. M. D. Thatcher, of Colorado, Lady Manager. 

One large fowl, or four pounds of veal (the knuckle or 

neck will do). Put over fire in one gallon of cold water, 

without salt. Cover tightly and simmer slowly, until the 

meat will slip from the bones, not allowing it to boil all the 

strength out, as the meat can be made into a nice dish for 

breakfast or luncheon, by reserving a cupful of the liquor to 

put with it in a mince on toast, or a stew. Strain the soup 

to remove all bones and bits of meat. Grate one dozen ears 

of green corn, scraping cobs to remove the heart of the 

kernel (or one can, if prepared corn be used). Add corn to 

soup, with salt, pepper and a little parsley, and simmer 

slowly half an hour. Just before serving, add a tablespoon- 

ful of flour, beaten very thoroughly with a tablespoon of 

butter. Serve very hot. 



^' ^.^TA^> 



FOli THE TABLE, 3 1 



Celery Soup. 



From Mrs. Alice B. Castleman, of Kentucky, Alternate Lady 

Manager. 

Put a veal bone to boil in one quart of water. After 
skiniming it well, put in one pint of celery cut up very fine, 
two tablespoonfuls of rice, one onion, one teaspoonful of 
celery salt. Let this boil till reduced to a pint. Take out 
the meat and pass the soup through a colander, mashing and 
extracting as much of the puree as possible, passing the- 
stock through it two or three times. Boil a quart of milk 
separately ; rub two tablespoonfuls of flour in a half a cup of 
butter; add this to the boiled milk; after cooking it a few 
minutes, add the milk to the celerv puree and serve at once, 
mixing milk and puree well. 




^ ^6A.£Z^^^ 



Oyster Soup. 



From Mrs. Helen C. Brayton, of South Carolina, Vice Presi- 
dent of State Board, and Lady Manager. 

Take one hundred oysters and simmer in their liquor 
with allspice. As the scum rises skim carefully. Strain off 
the liquor and add to it three - quarters lb. butter and one- 
quarter lb. flour, rubbed to a cream. Let this boil and care- 
fully stir in a quart of milk, guarding against curdling and 
pour over the oysters. 



•^/^-'^ ^a^i^^ 



32 FAVORITE DISHES 



Bisque of Crab or Crawfish. 

From Mrs. Belle H. Perkins, of Louisiana, President of State 

Board, Lady Manager. 

Boil one dozen crabs; pick them in flaky pieces as much 
as possible; remove the meat from the claws and the fat 
from the back. Reserve some of the nicest pieces and put 
them aside for the soup after it is done. Boil a chicken or 
veal bone; put it into two quarts of cold water; let it come 
to a boil and skim well, adding a cup of rice; let all boil 
together until the ingredients are reduced to one quart; add 
an onion, a piece of celery (or a teaspoon of celery salt); 
pass the stock and rice, together with the other parts of the 
crab, through a sieve; mash the chicken or veal bone vvell 
and add some of the stock. Mash again and scrape from 
the bottom of the sieve, obtaining all the puree possible; add 
this to the broth, together with the meat of the crabs. Let 
a pint of sweet cream come to a boil, adding it to the soup 
just as it is being served; also two tablespoons of butter, 
celery salt and pepper. 





Potato Puree. 

From Mrs. James R. Deane, of California, Lady Manager. 

Two pounds potatoes; two ounces butter; two table- 
spoonfuls chopped onions; two tablespoonfuls chopped 
celery; one quart milk; one quart boiling water; one-half 
cupful sago; one-half teaspoonful pepper; one teaspoonful 
salt. Wash, peel and slice potatoes, onions and celery. Melt 
the butter and add it to the vegetables, stirring it for ^\^ 



FOR THE TABLE. 33 



minutes to keep it from browning or burning. Then add 
the boiling water. When the vegetables are soft, rub them 
through a sieve; add the milk, and when the soup is boiling, 
add the sago, a little at a time, and cook until the sago looks 
clear. Stir the soup well and add seasoning the last. 



Pp2^^J^ti.^^ 



Asparag^us Soup. 

From Mrs. Laura P. Coleman, of Colorado, Lady Manager. 

Two quarts veal stock; two bunches asparagus; two 
cloves; two onions; three pepper corns; a little parsley^ 
Boil one hour and strain, then add one pint whipped cream. 
After dished, season with salt to taste. Tapioca or celery 
may be substituted for asparagus. 



0(>^^^ 




Tomato Soup. 

From Mrs. Ida M. Ball, of Delaware, Lady Manager. 

One quart of canned tomatoes; one quart of boiling 
water; one small onion; one carrot; celery and parsley; one 
teaspoonful salt. Botl slowly for three hours and strain. 
Add two tablespoonfuls sugar, one tablespoonful butter, 
two tablespoonfuls flour made into a paste with water and 
used as thickening. 




■.^^. 



34 FAVORITE DISHES 



Tomato Soup. 

From Mrs. E. J. P. Howes, of Michigan, Lady Manager. 

Take one - half dozen fresh tomatoes or a pint of canned, 
and stew a half hour in a pint of water; strain through a 
colander; put the liquid on the fire; stir in a teaspoonful of 
soda; then add a pint of heated milk; season with a little 
butter (a dessertspoonful); salt and pepper to taste, and 
bring the whole to a boiling heat and serve hot. 




Qumbo File. 

From Mrs. Anna M. Fosdick, of Alabama, Lady Manager. 

« 

Cut up a chicken; sprinkle with flour, and fry in the 
vessel in which the gumbo is to be made. When the 
chicken is nearly done, chop an onion and fry with it. Pour 
on this three quarts of boiling water, and let all boil slowly 
till the flesh leaves the bones of the chicken. Then add 
the liquor from the oysters, two tablespoonfuls of tomato 
catchup, and salt and pepper to taste. Let this boil a short 
time; then add one hundred oysters. Do not allow them to 
boil more than two minutes. Remove the vessel from 
the fire, and before pouring into the tureen, sprinkle in two 
tablespoonfuls of fil^. Serve always with rice. 

To Prepare Fili for Gumbo, — Gather sassafras leaves, 
as late as possible in the season, before they turn red. Dry 



FOR THE TABLE. 35 



them in the shade and open air. When perfectly dry, pound 
them, sift the powder and bottle it. Keep tightly corked. 



Qumbo Soup. 

From Mrs. Virginia T. Smith, of Connecticut, Alternate Lady 

Manager. 

Fry three rather thin slices of salted pork; and three 
large onions in the same fat. Fry also a chicken of medium 
size, after which put pork, onions, chicken and a half pound 
of lean ham, into a dinner kettle containing four quarts of 
boiling water. When the mixture begins to boil, add one 
quart of gumbo, the corn cut from two ears, three tomatoes, 
and two very small red peppers. Add boiling water as it 
needs and cook slowly five or six hours, after which strain 
and serve with bread " crunchers " cut in dice. 



Chicken Qumbo with Oysters. 

From Mrs. Alice B. Castleman, of . Kentucky, Alternate Lady 

Manager. 

Take a young chicken or a half grown one; cut up; 
roll it in salt, pepper and flour, and fry it a nice brown, 
using lard or drippings as if for a fricassee. Cut up a quart 
of fresh green okra and take out the chicken and fry the 
okra in the same lard. When well browned, return the 



36 FAVORITE DISHES 

chicken to the pot and boil. Add to it a large slice of 
ham — a quarter of a pound will be about right for this 
gumbo. Pour on to the chicken, ham and okra half a 
gallon of boiling water and let it boil down to three pints. 
Ten minutes before serving, pour into the boiling soup two 
dozen fine oysters, with half a pint of their liquor; let it 
come to a good boil and serve with well -boiled rice. — La 
Cuisine Creole. 




Okni Soup. 



From Miss Floride Cuningham, of South Carolina, Lady 

Manager. 

Two quarts of okra cut very fine in three quarts of 
water, in which put a large shank of beef, and boil one hour. 
Then skim well and add two quarts of fresh tomatoes, 
strained. Boil slowly and without ceasing for at least ?i\^ 
hours. Season with salt to the taste when the tomatoes are 
put in, and add black and cayenne pepper when ready to 
serve. Keep closely covered while cooking. 




/^^^^^ 




Black Bean Soup. 

From Mrs, M. D. Foley, of Nevada, Lady Manager. 

Soak one coffee cup black turtle beans over night in 
cold water. Add water enough in the morning to cook 



FOR THE TABLE, 37 



thoroughly. One hour before dinner rub through a sieve 
and stir in three pints plain beef stock. Season with salt, 
pepper, and a salt spoon each of cloves and allspice. Just 
before serving add a wine glass of port or sherry, one small 
lemon thinly sliced and one hard boiled ^^% chopped fine. 




Bean Soup. 

From Mrs. Anne B. Patrick, of Colorado, Alternate Lady 

Manager. 

Take one can of Boston baked beans. Remove all the 
pork and pour over the beans one quart of boiling water, 
and let it boil slowly for one hour, adding hot water from 
time to time to keep up the quantity. Mash the beans thor- 
oughly* and strain through a sieve, heat again nearly to 
boiling and add one pint of hot (not boiling) cream; add 
pepper and salt to taste. 






Soup Regency. 



From Mrs. Isabella Bbecher Hooker, of Connecticut, Lady 

Manager. 

The bones and remains of cold fowls, such as turkey 
and chicken: or game, .such as partridges, woodcock, etc.; 
two carrots; two small onions; one head of celery; one 
turnip; one- half tea cup pearl barley; the yolks of three 
eggs, boiled hard ; one - quarter pint of cream ; sak to taste, 
and two quarts of common stock. 



38 FAVORITE DISHES 



Mode — Place the bones and remains of the fowls in the 
stew pan, with the vegetables sliced; pour over the stock 
and simmer for two hours; skim off all the fat and strain it. 
Wash the barley and boil it in two waters before adding it 
to the soup; finish simmering in the soup, and when the 
barley is done take out half and pound the other half with 
the yolks, of the eggs. When well pounded, rub it through 
a fine colander, add the cream and the salt, if necessary; let 
it boil up once more and serve very hot, putting in the 
barley that was taken out first. Time of cooking, 2 y^ hours. 
Seasonable from September to March. SuflScient for eight 
persons. 






Pea Soup. 

From Mrs. Whiting S. Clark, of Iowa, Lady Manager. 

Cover a quart of green peas and a very small onion 
with hot water; boil till soft enough to strain through a 
sieve. Cream two tablespoons of butter and one of flour and 
add to a quart of milk and coffee cup of cream. Boil all 
together and strain. Stir in whipped cream and serve with 
buttered toast cut in small squares. 

Clam Chowder. 

From Mrs. Charles H. Olmstead, of Georgia, Lady Manager. 

To one pmt of clams add one quart of milk, two onions, 
chopped fine, two tablespoonfuls of butter, the yolks of two 
eggs rubbed in two tablespoonfuls of flour, salt, parsley, cay- 



FOR THE TABLE. 39 

enne pepper, half teaspooiiful allspice, four hard-boiled eggs 
sliced, and half pint sherry wine added when served. Cut 
the soft part of the dams in two pieces; mince the tough 
part very fine and boil it one hour in a quart of water before 
adding the soft part; after the soft part has boiled half an 
hour longer, add the milk, flour and other ingredients. 
Serve hot. 



Clam Chowder. 

From Miss I^iDA M. Russell, of Nevada, Lady Manager. 

Two large onions, sliced and fried with one cup of 
finely chopped salt pork. Add to it three pints of boiling 
milk and juice of one can of clams, in which has been 
cooked two large potatoes, thinly sliced; a pinch of red 
pepper; salt; two tablespoonfuls of flour, rubbed smooth 
with one tablespoon of melted butter. Stir in clams, heat 
well and serve at once. 



Soles or SmelU Cooked witii Maitre D'Hotel Sauce. 

From Mrs. James R. Deanh, of California, Lady Manager. 

Skin the fish and cut flesh into filets; put the skin and 
bones into a saucepan with water enough to cover them; let 
this boil to make the stock for the giavy. Now wipe the filets 
dry and roll them up with the skin side inward to make 
them stand firm; place the filets on a buttered baking tin, 
first rolling them into bread crumbs. When ready to cook, 
squeeze over each filet about a teaspoonful lemon juice and 
pu^ on each a piece of Maitre d'Hotel butter; cover with a 
buttered paper and cook about ten minutes. 

To Make Mattre d'Holel Butter — "Work one table- 
spoonful of butter to a cream; squeeze in the juice of one- 
half a lemon; one-quarter saltspoonful cayenne; one table- 
spoonful finely chopped parsley. Put butter on ice to cool 
before using. 

Sauce for tA{s Dish — Two tablespoonfuls of butter, 
melted; two tablespoonfuls of flour, stirred into the butter 
and cook for ten minutes. Then put in a small pinch of 
cayenne pepper and a cupful of fish stock and cook for ten 
minutes. Then put in juice of one- half lemon, a table- 
spoonful of finely chopped parsley, and just before serving 
put in two tablespoonfuls of cream. 



FOR THE TABLE, 4 1 



Baked Shad. 

From Mrs. Mary R. Kinder, of Delaware, Lady Manager. 

Make a stuffing of bread crumbs, butter, salt, pepper, 
and an ^^^ well beaten. Stuff the shad, sew it up and bake 
in a quick oven. Serve with brown gravy^ mushroom, or 
tomato ketchup. 



Cubion. 

From Mrs. Anna M. Fosdick, of Alabama, Lady Manager. 

Cut a red -fish or red -snapper in pieces and fry brown. 
While frying the fish, in a separate vessel, cut very fine and 
fry, one onion and two cloves of garlic. When brown, add 
two tablespoonfuls of flour, one pint of prepared tomatoes, 
pepper and salt to taste, a tablespoonful of Worcestershire 
sauce, and half a dozen whole cloves. Let this simmer for 
one -half hour, then add one -half pint of wine. Pour over 
the fried fish, and serve immediately. 

Cod Fish Balls. 

From Mrs. A. M. Palmer, of N^w York, Alternate Lady 

Manager. 

One pound codfish; one and a half pound potatoes; one- 
quarter pound butter; two eggs. Boil the fish slowly, then 
pound with a potato masher until very fine; add the potatoes 



42 



FAVORITE DISHES 



mashed and hot; next add butter and one -half cup milk and 
the two eggs. Mix thoroughly, form into balls, and fry in 



hot fat. 



k^llPiUmz. 



Salmon Croquettes. 

From Mrs. George W. Lamar, of Georgia, Alternate Lady 

Manager. 

One can of salmon, minced very fine; two large Irish 
potatoes, boiled and mashed ; half of a small onion, chopped 
fine; two raw eggs; salt and black pepper; two tablespoon- 
fuls of Worcestershire sauce. Rub these together until very 
light. Make into balls, roll in cracker dust and fry in boil- 
ing lard. 



/^h^^v i7^ 



^ 





.^ 



«<r>. 



Maryland Terrapins. 

From Mrs. William Reed, of Maryland, Lady Manager. 

After bleeding them an hour, put them into 
warm water. A young one will boil tender in half 
an hour. They are done when the shell is easily 
removed. Be careful not to cut off the heads before 
boiling, as it will make them watery. In picking 
them, be careful not to break the gall or waste the 
liquor. The small bones are often left in the terra- 
pin — if they are Diamondbacks. Be careful not to 
break the eggs. When picked, add the liquor, and to 
three medium sized terrapins, three - fourths pound of 
butter, salt and pepper (cayenne) to taste. Let them 
stew for a short time, but be careful not to stir them 
more than is absolutely necessary. If you wish, one- 
half pint of good wine can be added just before serving. 

Another way to dress terrapin is to add to the liquor 
of three terrapins, three - fourths pound of butter thickened 
with browned flour, cayenne pepper and salt. Spices or 
onions are never used in Maryland to dress terrapins. 






43 



1- , FA VORITB D/SHES 

Terrapin White Stew. 
From Mrs. James R. Deane, of California, Ladj' Manager. 

Two large terrapin; three tablespoon fuls 
butter; one pint cream; one-half pint sherry 
or Madeira; one gill water; six hard-boiled 
^ggs; one -half a lemon; two level teaspoon- 
fuls salt; cayenne, white pepper, mace and all- 
spice to taste. Cut up the terrapin fine; put in 
a stew pan with terrapin juice, water, butter, 
salt, pepper and spices. Simmer for fifteen 
minutes. Mash yolks of eggs well and mix 
gradually with cream; add this mixture, with 
the wine, and the lemon cut in thin slices, to 
the terrapin stew. Cut up the whites of eggs 
in thin rings and, stirring, mix thoroughly, but 
do not let it boil. To be served at once. 



White Stew of Terrapin. 

From Mrs. George W. Lamar, of Georgia, Alternate Ladj- 
lanager. 

Cut off the heads and throw into cold water for about 
an hour to draw the blood. Scald them to loosen the skin 
and nails; open and clean them. Cover with water and boil, 
with part of an onion chopped fine, and a sprig of parsley 
and thyme. When thoroughly done, remove all the meat 
from the shells and bones, chop fine and return to the pot. 
Rub to a cream one - quarter pound of butter and one 



FOR THE TABLE. 45 



tablespoonful of flour, with a little of the stock, and stir in 

gradually, adding salt and red pepper to taste. Just before 

serving put in one -half pint of 

cream and one wineglass of wine 

to each terrapin. Slice one lemon 

and four hard-boiled eggs into a 

tureen, pour the stew over them and serve in terrapin dishes. 




/^h^^ t/^^T^ 




Terrapin Croquettes. 

From Mrs. W. W. Kimball, of Chicago, Lady Manager. 

Take the meat of one terrapin. Chop in small pieces, 
add a pint of sherry and boil ten minutes; then add a quart 
of cream and boil again ten minutes; add salt, cayenne 
pepper, a little Worcestershire sauce and two tablespoons of 
cream sauce. Beat up yolks of four eggs in some cream 
butter and mix with the other. Put in tin moulds and place 
on ice for six or eight hours until hard. Dip moulds in hot 
water to loosen. Take out of moulds, bread as you would 
oysters, and fry. 




Deviled lobster. 

From Mrs. Joseph C. Straughan, of Idaho, Lady Manager. 

Two lobsters, each weighing about two and a half lbs. ; 
one pint of cream; two tablespoonfuls of butter; two of 



i 



46 FAVORITE DISHES 



flour; one of mustard; a speck of cayenne; salt; pepper; a 
scant pint of bread crumbs. Open the lobster and with a 
sharp knife cut the meat rather fine. Be careful in opening 
not to break the body or tail shells. Wash these shells and 
wipe dry. Join them in the form of a boat, that they may 
hold the prepared meat. Put the cream on to boil. Mix the 
butter, flour, mustard, and pepper together and add three 
spoonfuls of the boiling cream. Stir all into the remaining 
cream and cook two minutes. Add the lobster, salt and 
pepper, and boil one minute. Fill the shells with the mix- 
ture and place in pan. Cover with the bread crumbs and 
brown for twenty minutes in a hot oven. Serve on a long 
narrow dish, the body in the centre, the tails at either end. 
Garnish with parsley. 



^^X^. \^w^ \4. "^WhfNK' 




Lobster Croquettes. 

From Mrs. Louise L. Barton, of Idaho, Alternate Lady Manager. 

One pint chopped lobsters; good half pint rolled 
crackers; one tablespoonful butter; ten of milk; salt and 
pepper to taste. This quantity is enough for twelve persons. 





Deviled Crabs. 

From Mrs. Cora L. Bartlett, of New Mexico, Lady Manager. 

Take butter the size of an ^gg\ melt slowly in sauce- 
pan; into butter slice fine a piece of onion size of a filbert; 
brown slowly. Sift into above, tablespoonful of flour and 



' 



MRS. EDWARD L. BAKTI.ETT. 



FOR THE TABLE. 47 



cream carefully; heat a generous half pint of milk and stir 
into butter and flour. Take No. 2 can of deviled crabs; 
strain off all the liquor; season with a scant teaspoon of 
mustard, scant teaspoon cayenne pepper, half teaspoon salt, 
good half teaspoon of liquor from Crosse & Blackwell's 
chow-chow, one teaspoon Worcestershire sauce, tablespoon- 
ful vinegar and a half teaspoon lemon juice; parsley to taste. 
Mix thoroughly^ and stir into butter and milk. When cook- 
ing well, stir into it rapidly two eggs that have been well 
beaten. Remove from stove and put in crab shells with 
butter the size of filbert and rolled crackers on top. Heat in 
quick oven and serve at once, garnished with parsley. 

This recipe makes an amount sufficient for eight per- 
sons. If desired, cracker crumbs very fine may be added to 
increase the quantity, just before stirring in the eggs. The 
crabs may be kept three or four days if in a cool place. 



Deviled Crabs. 
From Mrs. Anna E. M. Farnum, of Idaho, Lady Manager. 

Boil them, take the meat out of the bodies, and large 
claws; put it into stew pan with half a pint of claret, spoon- 
ful of eschalot vinegar, a little cayenne, some salt, piece of 
butter. Stew for an hour over a gentle fire until they are 
almost dry. Then add small quantity of fish stock, or 
gravy, a tablespoonful of essence of anchovy, and small 
piece of butter rolled in flour. Serve with sippets of fried 
bread around the dish. 



\ 



\ 



48 FAVORITE DISHES 



Deviled Crabs. 



From Miss Jennie Torreyson, of Nevada, Alternate Lady 

Manager. 

Have one large crab picked from the shell, and shred 
fine, and the shell well cleansed. Beat one ^^^ well, add one 
/da-cup sweet cream; butter, size of an Q%g^ melted; one 
sherry glass of sherry; one large spoonful of Worcestershire 
sauce; mace, allspice and cloves to taste; a good deal of 
cayenne and a little black pepper and salt. Stir this all 
together over the fire till it boils; then pour over the crab 
and mix well ; fill the shell and sprinkle over the top a thick 
layer of fine cracker crumbs and bits of butter. Put in a 
hot oven till browned on top. Serve hot. 



^'^'^i?;^ ^^^<^^«{^>:^ 



Soft Shell Crabs. 

From Mrs. George W. Lamar, of Georgia, Alternate Lady 

Manager. 

Plunge the crabs into boiling water and leave for about 
ten minutes. Wash them carefully and remove the sand 
bags. Dry them thoroughly and for one dozen crabs have 
six raw eggs, well beaten. Dip each crab into the eggs and 
roll them in cracker dust seasoned with salt and black pep- 
per. Fry a light brown, in boiling butter or lard. 



FOR THE TABLE. 49 



Frog Legs. 

From Mrs, Ella Ray Miller, of Idaho, Alternate Lady Manager. 

Frog legs must be first salted and then dipped in a 
batter made of cracker dust and beaten eggs. Fry them in 
sweet table butter until they are a golden brown color. The 
batter retains their sweet juices and they need no other 
condiments. 



Pannee Oysters. 

From Mrs. Alice B. Castleman, of Kentucky, Alternate Lady 

Manager. 

Drain two dozen or more oysters in a colander. Pour 
over them draining from them, one quart of ice water. 
Put an iron skillet or frying pan on the fire; let it get almost 
red hot. Then put in the oysters, shaking and stirring them 
until they boil; add a little salt and pepper, one large table- 
spoonful butter. The dish must be hot and the oysters must 
be served very hot; must not stand a minute. Soda crackers 
put in the stove to get hot and brown, and the oysters 
poured over them, are very nice. 




^ -^a^^^zz^z:: 



Creamed Oysters. 

From Mrs. Mira B. F. Ladd, of New Hampshire, Lady Manager. 

Parboil one pint of oysters in their own liquor until they 
are plump. Drain thoroughly and have your cracker crumbs 



4 



50 FA VORITE DISHES 



and white sauce ready. Put a layer of oysters on a platter, 
then the white sauce over them, and a layer of the crumbs 
on top. Bake about twenty minutes or until they are brown. 
For this quantity of oysters use a cup of cracker or bread 
crumbs and about one -third of a cup of butter, melted and 
stirred into the crumbs. To make the white sauce, take two 

tablespoonfuls of butter, one pint of 
milk, two heaping tablespoonfuls of 
flour, one -half teaspoonful of salt 
and one -half saltspoonful of pepper. 
Heat the milk. Put the butter in a granite saucepan and 
when it bubbles stir in the dry flour very quickly until well 
mixed. Pour on one -third of the milk, let it boil up and 
thicken, then add slowly the rest of the milk. It should be 
free from lumps before you put in the last of the milk. Let 
it boil a little, then add the pepper and salt; also a table- 
spoonful of lemon juice and a little celery salt. 





cr-^^ 



^. \/^. /UA.ctcO. 



«« Little Pigs in Blankets." 

From Mrs. Isabella Laning Candee, of Illinois, Alternate Lady 

Manager. 

This amusing and appetizing dish is easily made. Take 
large fine oysters and drain them well, and season with salt 
and pepper, and a drop of lemon juice if desired. Cut fat 
bacon into very thin, even slices, and wrap each oyster in a 
slice of bacon, fastening securely with a wooden skewer — a 
toothpick will do. Two cloves can be inserted at one end of 
the roll to simulate ears. Have the frying pan very hot, 



FOR THE TABLE. $\ 

^ 



and cook the little pigs until the bacon crisps. Serve imme- 
diately upon small pieces of toast. 



JaU-eSiz/Q^ 




Escalloped Oysters. 

From Miss Meta Telfair McLaws, of Georgia, Alternate Lady 

Manager. 

Spread cracker crumbs on bottom of baking dish; then 
place bits of butter and a layer of oysters, which must be 
sprinkled with salt and pepper. Make alternate layers of 
oysters, cracker crumbs, salt, pepper, and butter until dish is 
full. Have crumbs on top. Now make a small incision in 
center and pour in one well beaten ^%%^ with a small quan- 
tity of oyster liquor. Put in hot oven and brown nicely. 



Creamed Shrimps. 

From Mrs. M. D. Foley, of Nevada, Lady Manager. 

Cover one can of shrimps with cold milk and allow to 
come to a boil; then drain. Rub one tablespoonful flour 
with same quantity of butter and add slowly one cup rich 
Fnilk or cream at the boiling point. Season with salt, 
pepper, and nutmeg, and enough tomato juice to color a 
shrimp pink. Stir in the shrimps and when hot pour over 



FAVORITE DISHES. 



small squares of toast arranged o 
with sliced lemons. 



I platter. Garnish 



LUNCHEON TABLE. 




Sauce Mousscilne. 

From Mrs. Wilson Patterson, of Maryland, Alternate Lady 

Manager. 

/ am always interested^ a?id do my best to help anything done to help 
other women, r. - . 

I send you a recipe which I hope may be of service to you. It is a 
delicious sauce for asparagus and is given me by the chef of Prince 
Jerome Bonaparte, 

Wishing you every success in, your most worthy undertaking, I am^ > 

Sincerely yours. 

Put in a sauce pan a piece of butter, melt it, add a pinch 
of flour; work it together thoroughly, wet it with a little 
warm water, salt it, make it boil, add the yolk of an Ggg\ 
then be^t up. the sauce with a little fresh butter; pass it 
through the finest gauze. At the minute of serving add two 
spoonfuls of beaten cream, well mixed. 



^^ Boiled Egg Sauce. ;■ 

From Mrs. James R. Doolittle, Jr., of Chicago, Lady Manager. 

One large tablespoonful butter; two small tablespoon- 
fuls flour; two eggs. Put the butter in a.^^in"*pan over 
boiling water; when melted, stir in flour. When thoroughly 

,53 



54 FAVORITE DISHES. 

and smoothlj' mixed, add enough milk to make it the propet 
consistency for sauce. Boil the eggs hard, cut them in small 
pieces, stir them into the sauce, and serve with fish or boiled 
mutton. 

Tartar Sauce. 

From Mrs. Mvra Bradwell, of Chicago, Lady Hanger. 

Three eggs; four tabiespoonfuls olive oil; one and one- 
half teaspoonful of mustard; one teaspoonful black pepper; 
one teaspoonful salt; juice of one lemon; two tabiespoonfuls 
of vinegar; one tablespoonful chopped parsley. Boil t^vo of 
the eggs very hard; rub thd yolks to a powder; add the raw 
yolk of the other egg. Stir in slowly the oil. Chop fine 
the two whites of the boiled eggs; add the chopped parsley 
and one small onion chopped as fine as possible. 




•'«a''?S^^ATKlr'*Scx- 



met of Beef. 

From Mrs. Governor Oglksbv, oJ Illinois, Ladv Manager. 

Filets of beef may be supplietl by ibe 
butcher already tiimmed and larded, but a 
more economical way is to buy the large 
piece which contains the tenderloin. Have ) 
the butcher cut the tenderloin out and the 
rest of the meat into slices one-lialf or one 
inch thick; these pieces may be used to ad- 
vantage in beef olives, stews or pics, the 
bones in the piece of meat to be broken up 
for the soup pot. The filet is then to be prepared by the 
cook ill this manner: Remove all skin and fat; fold the 
thin end under and skewer in place; the upper side must 
present a smooth surface for larding; with a larding needle 
lard the filet of heef in regular and even rows, with strips of 
firm, fat pickled pork one -quarter of an inch square and 
about two and one -quarter inches long. The lardoon should 
be about one -third of an inch under the surface and come 
out about three-quarters of an inch from where it went in, 
one -half inch projecting on each side. Place the filet in a 
small baking pan, with minced salt pork and suet on the 
bottom of the pan, and six spoonfuls of stock to baste the 
filet. One -half to three-quarters of an hour will roast it, 
depending on heat of oven and whether it is preferred 
underdone or well done. Serve ■with mushroom sauce or 
h. hi jardiniere. 



56 FAVORITE DISHES 

• 

Mushroom Sauce — Melt one tablespoon butter; stir in 
a tablespoon of flour, and when it is well browned, add, 
after heating, six tablespoons of stock with half the juice 
from the can of mushrooms and one -half teaspoonful of 
lemon juice, seasoned with pepper and salt; add the button 
mushrooms and let all simmer about ten minutes. Pour 
over the filet of beef and serve. 

A la yardiniire — Potatoes, turnips, beets, and carrots, 
cut in round balls, tiny onions, cauliflower blossoms, French 
beans or peas, are boiled separately in salted water, seasoned 
with salt, butter and cream, drained and then piled in little 
groups around the filet of beef, each pile being one kind of 
vegetable. 

Beef Olives — Slices of beef one -half inch thick and 
about four inches square, spread with a force meat of cold 
meat, bacon or ham, with one cup of bread crumbs, the 
yolks of three eggs, one pint of gravy or stock, a tablespoon 
of catsup, salt and pepper to taste. Roll up the slices of 
beef and fasten with tiny skewers; brush them over with 
^Z% and crumb and brown slightly in the oven; then put in 
stew pan and stew till tender. Serve in gravy, in which 
they were cooked, with fried or toasted crofitons of bread. 




Roast Beef. 

From Mrs. Matilda B. Carse, of Chicago, Lady Manager. 

In roasting meats of all kinds, the method adopted 
should be the one that in the most perfect manner preserves 



MRS. MATILDA B. CARSE. 



FOR THE TABLE, 57 



the juices inside the meat. To roast beef in the best possible 
manner, place the clean - cut side of the meat upon a very 
hot pan. Press it close to the pan until seared and browned. 
Reverse and sear and brown the other side. Then put at 
once in the oven, the heat of which should be firm and 
steady, but not too intense, and allow 20 minutes to the 
pound ; if it is to be rare, less half an hour deducted from 
the aggregate time on account of searing. For example, a 
five -lb. roast of beef will require one and one -quarter 
hours, a six -lb. roast one and one -half hours, and so on. 
If the oven is not too hot, the beef requires no basting. 
When it is at the proper temperature and the cooking is 
going on all right, the meat will keep up a gentle sputter- 
ing in the pan. A roast of beef should never be washed 
but carefully wiped off with a damp cloth. When meat is 
done, take from the oven, cut off the outside slices, then 
salt and pepper well. The meat, if roasted in this way, 
will be sweet, juicy and tender. 



A^A 




Yorkshire Pudding. 

From Mrs. Harriet A. Lucas, of Pennsylvania, Lady Manager. 

This pudding, as its name indicates, is a great English 
dish, and to be used as vegetables are, with roast beef onh/. 
When vegetables are scarce, it adds a change to the m^nn, 
which everybody likes, but few know how to make success- 
fully, because // is so very simple. 

For a small family, put one pint of milk into a bowl, a 
small pinch of salt; break into this (without beating) two 



S3 FAVORITE DISHES 



fresh eggs. Now have a good ^%^ beater in your hand; 
dust into this one-half pint of sifted flour; beat vigorously 
and rub out all the lumps of flour. Have ready a smaller 
roasting pan than that in which your beef is roasting, and 
put in it a good tablespoonful of sweet lard, very hot ; pour 
your light batter into this, place a spit or wire frame in the 
pudding, lift the roast from the pan about 20 minutes before 
it is done and put it on the spit, so that the juices of the beef 
will drop on to the pudding. About 20 minutes will cook it. 
Make gravy in the pan from which the roast has been re- 
moved. Slide into a hot meat dish and serve with the meat. 
Most cooks persistently raise it by adding some sort of 
baking powder, thinking it of no importance that the meat 
is over the pudding. 

I never yet found a person that did not enjoy a good 
Yorkshire pudding. This is a small one, for four or five 
persons. If you increase the pudding, also select a larger 
pan, as the batter should be fully one -half to an inch in the 
pan* if not, it will become too crusty. 




Roulards. 



From Mrs. Ralph Trautmann, of New York City, First Vice 

President Board of Lady Managers. 

Secure slices of beef cut very thin from the round or 
cross rib. Take tomatoes, carrots, onions, celery, parsley, 
and hard boiled eggs, all chopped very fine. Mix with a 
good sized piece of butter, cracker crumbs, a pinch of ginger 
and salt and pepper to taste. Mix well and spread on the 
slices of beef. Make a roll of each slice, folding in the 



FOR THE TABLE. 59 



edges to retain the dressing, and tie up securely with cord. 
Have beef suet on the fire; after rendering and straining, 
add a little water to prevent scorching and bring to a boil in 
a flat -bottomed pot or kettle. Drop in the roulards, rolled 
and tied; stir with a spoon until well browned; then set back 
on the stove and let simmer gently for two hours with pot 
tightly covered. Drain well on napkin or sieve, and garnish 
with hard boiled eggs, parsley and slices of lemon. Serve 
hot. Each roulard should be about the size of an ^%%* 




a^^y< 



r ^>^ p^^ 




Beef Loaf. 



From Mrs. Carrington Mason, of Tennessee, Alternate Lady 

Manager. 

Three pounds lean finely chopped beef ; one dozen rolled 
butter crackers; four beaten* eggs; one tablespoonful black 
pepper; one tablespoonful salt; butter the size of an ^%%> 
Mix thoroughly, mold into two bricks and bake like a roast. 
This makes a very nice dish sliced cold for tea. A very 
little sage can be added if desired. 




Hash. 

From Mrs. Annie L. Y. Orff, of Missouri, Alternate Lady 

Manager. 

Chop any kind of meat fine; to one cupful add one cup 
of chopped boiled potatoes, three - fourths cup bread crumbs, 



6o FAVORITE DISHES 



put one -half cup milk, one tablespoon butter, a little pepper 
and salt in a sauce pan on the stove; when boiling stir in the 
hash which should be well mixed together; take from the 
fire and add one well-beaten ^%%\ heat gem pans, and grease; 
put a spoonful of the hash in each, and put in the oven till 
nicely browned. 



(MUJL tl/^ 




Mutton Chops. 



From Miss Mary B. Hancock, of Iowa, Treasurer of State Board 

and Alternate Lady Manager. 

Sprinkle the chops with 
salt, pepper and flour; put 
them in the double broiler; 
broil over or before the 
fire for eight minutes. Serve on a hot dish with butter, 
salt, and pepper, or tomato sauce. The fire for chops should 
not be as hot as for steak. Chops can be seasoned with 
salt and pepper, wrapped in buttered paper, and broiled ten 
minutes over a hot fire. 





Roast Lamb, 

From Mrs. Robt. B. Mitchell, of Kansas, Lady Manager. 

Brush three ounces of melted butter over the inner part 
of a well trimmed quarter of lamb, and strew thick with 



FOR THE TABLE. 6 1 



finely grated bread crumbs, seasoned with salt, pepper and 
parsley ; roll and skewer four or five slices of bacon to the 
outer side; put in rather quick oven. When thoroughly done 
(not over cooked) remove the bacon and baste the meat with 
well beaten yolk of ^^% and gravy; cover thick with bread 
crumbs and brown nicely. Garnish the platter on which it is 
served with sprays of mint. Mint sauce should be an ac- 
companiment. This makes not only an attractive looking, 
but delicious roast of lamb. 




A>^r^. ^UC^Z..^<.c^^ 



Lamb Chops. 

From Mrs. Hester A. Hanback, of Kansas, Lady Manager. 

Trim neatly and hack with sharp knife until tender; dip 
each piece in beaten ^^^ and roll in cracker crumbs; place 
in pan equal quantities of butter and lard very hot; fry until 
nicely browned and serve with green peas. 



/y^z-'C^ /%M^^^ ^ i^CJL.'t^/^^^ 



Potted Tongue. 



From Mrs. Frank H. Daniell, of New Hampshire, Alternate Lady 

Manager. 

Take the remains of a cold boiled tongue, remove all 
ihe hard parts, cut the meat into small pieces and afterwards 
pound it to a smooth paste. Season with cayenne, and beat 
with it one - fourth of its weight in clarified butter. Press 



1 



62 FAVORITE DISHES 



it into small jars, cover it one - fourth inch deep with, clari- 
fied butter, melted drippings or melted suet. A smaller 
proportion of butter will be required if a little of the fat of 
the tongue is used instead of the lean only, but the butter 
must not be entirely dispensed with. It can be seasoned by 
the addition of one teaspoonful of mixed mustard, one salt 
spoonful of white pepper, a pinch of cayenne, and as much 
grated nutmeg as will cover a three - cent piece to each 
pound of tongue. Potted tongue is excellent when pounded 
with its weight in well dressed cold chicken, cold veal, or 
partridge. The tongue must be pounded to a perfectly 
smooth paste. 



Veal Croquettes. 

From I^RS. Isabella Beech er Hooker, of Connecticut, Lady 

Manager. 

Mince cold roast or boiled veal; add one -fourth as 
much of minced oysters scalded in their own liquor. Season 
with a dusting of red pepper, salt, a flavor of onion (two 
fine cut rounds of onion is suflicient), a tablespoonful of 
lemon juice. Stir this into a half pint of drawn butter made 
thick with flour; mould the croquettes; roll them in ^^^^ 
then in cracker crumbs, salted and peppered; put them 
where they will be cold; when chilled put them in a frying 
basket into hot fat; two minutes will brown them. 






MISS KATHARINE L. Ml^ 



FOR THE TABLE, 63 



Veal Croquettes. 



From Miss Katharine L. Minor, of Louisiana, Fourth Vice 
President Board of Ladj Managers. 

Two pounds of veal, boiled until done; remove skin 
and bone and chop very fine; crumb a half loaf of bread and 
mix with the veal broth; add three eggs, two tablespoons of 
butter, salt, pepper, parsley, etc. Then form into, egg- 
shaped balls and fry brown in boiling lard. It is necessary 
to dust the balls with cracker -dust or flour. 



/Ucy^^i 



^tyOUt'^^^^ 




t • 




Veal Pot Pie. 

From Miss SCsan W. Ball, of Indiana, Alternate Lady Manager. 

Take two pounds of veal — a rib piece is good; cut it in 
small pieces; put it into a pot, having placed a small plate in 
the bottom to keep the meat from burning. Put in two 
quarts of water, either hot or cold. Keep it boiling for 
about an hour and a half. Then make a quart of flour into 
biscuit dough; drop in small lumps; cover closely. Tw^enty 
or twenty - five minutes will generally cook them. Be sure 
that there is water sufficient to cover the meat entirely when 
the dumplings are put in. 





frrc y^i^z 



.- h. Z' ^ = 



I . 



r.'« 









.- - .:r  -rr:=^" • ik niiii^? 



% ." -'^ -= ^- 



• ^-i 






.-n.« jLi.. 






% >.. 



\ :l 



.11 i:l-i ^nlT^T^r^z 

«. T .-.I1:t "I. .m*»Ll 

 - * - - I  •  wW. .^»«.Bk 

IT' ~n II -cit sn\L 






is^:** vnr -vslL 



r ^*"TX '\.«^^ r ^ 3i '---«. 









A T '-nirv II 



FOR THE TABLE. 65 

and thicken the gravy with one tablespoonful of flour; add 
a little salt and one e^%%<i well beaten ; pour over the meat 
and serve hot with slices of lemon. 





Veal Loaf. 

From Mrs. Whiting S. Clark, of Iowa, Lady Manager. 

Three pounds raw veal, chopped fine; two -thirds cup 
butter or its equivalent of salt pork, chopped; three eggs,, 
w^ell beaten with tablespoon milk; four Boston crackers,, 
pounded fine; two even teaspoons pepper; one teaspoon 
sage; one tablespoon salt. Mix well in a loaf and bake two 
hours. Baste often with butter and water. 




Sweet -Bread Croquettes. 

From Mrs. Schuyler Colfax, of Indiana, Alternate Ladv 

Manager - at - Large. 

// gives me great fleasure to send you the recipes you request ^ and 
thus further^ iti this small way, your unique and most generous project. 
The recipe for sweetbread croquettes is from Mrs. Henderson^s Prac- 
tical Cooking and Dinner Giving, hut as it is the best one that I have 
ever tried, I send it. Cordially yours. 

Two pair of sweetbreads blanched and cut into dice. 
Half a box of mushrooms also cut into dice. Make a sauce 
by putting into a sauce pan one and a half ounces of butter, 
and when it bubbles, sprinkle in two ounces of flour, mix 
the butter and flour well together and cook thoroughly ; then 
put in a gill of strong stock ; stock for this is best made of 
chicken with some pieces of beef and veal added, or a gill of 
cream may be used instead of the stock. When the flour, 
butter and stock are well mixed, put in the sweetbreads and 
mushrooms and stir over the fire until they are thoroughly 
heated. Now take them off the fire, add the beaten yolks of 
two eggs, return to the fire long enough to set the eggs but 

66 



FOR THE TABLE. 67 

do not allow them to boil. When cool, form into croquettes, 
roll first in cracker or bread crumbs, then in ^^^^ and again 
in crumbs and fry in boiling lard. 



Sweetbreads and Oysters. 

From Senora Teresa Armijo de Symington, of New Mexico. 

Soak and blanch your sweetbreads, cut them into equal 
sizes and remove the skins and little pipes. Take about three 
dozen fine oysters, strain off the liquor. Put the sweetbreads 
into a stew pan and cover them with the oyster liquor; add 
also, if you have it, three large spoonfuls of gravy of roast 
veal and a quarter of a pound of fresh butter cut into bits 
and each bit rolled in flour. When the sweetbreads are done 
put in the oysters and let them cook for about ?i\Q^ minutes 
and take them out again; add at the last two wineglasses of 
sweet cream ; stir up well for a few minutes and serve in a 
hot dish. 



/^€^^^ ^^^^^^^^^ \y^^!^^^^i^4^* 




Sweetbreads and Mushrooms. 

From Mrs. P. B. Winston, of Minnesota, Alternate Lady 

Manager. 

Take all the fat off sweetbreads; throw into boiling 
water; add one teaspoonful of salt and let stand on fire for 
twenty minutes; take from fire, remove all skin and pick to 
pieces. Put a tablespoonful of butter in a pan and let melt, 
add tablespoonful flour and one - half pint of cream ; stir until 



68 FAVORITE DISHES 



it boils, add sweetbreads and five mushrooms chopped fine, 
one - half teaspoonf ul of salt and a little pepper. Serve in 
patties or paper cases. 



Sweetbreads en Coquille. 

From Miss Jennie Torreyson, of Nevada, Alternate Lady 

Manager. 

One pound sweetbreads. Soak them one hour in salt 
water; boil till tender in salt water in which an onion has 
been put. One can mushrooms ("champignons") cut into 
small pieces, stew a bit till tender and mix with sweet- 
breads after they are boiled till tender and cut into small 
pieces. One pint cream, one tablespoonful butter, one table - 
spoonful flour. Cream the butter, mixing with the flour till 
smooth ; stir with the cream, add one tablespoonful of Wor- 
cestershire sauce and stir together over the fire until it boils, 
then pour it over the sweetbreads and mushrooms. Serve 
in shells or cases. Can be used also without mushrooms if 
desired. 



H€y7y?ni yif^''U^a^ 



Sweetbread Patties. 

From Miss Wilhelmine Reitz, of Indiana, Lady Manager. 

Wash one pair of sweetbreads; throw them into boil- 
ing water and simmer gently twenty minutes; then throw 



FOR THE TABLE. 69 

them into cold water to blanch and cool. When cool pick 
them into small pieces, rejecting, all the fine membrane. 
Chop fine a half can of mushiooms. Put a large tablespoon- 
ful of butter hi a sauce pan to melt without browning; 
add an even tablespoonful of flour, mix until smooth; add a 
half pint of cream, stir continuall}' until it boils; add a half 
teaspoQiiful of salt, a dash of white pepper; the mushrooms 
and sweetbreads mix and stand over boiling water for five 
minutes. Serve in paper cases, silver shells or in puff-paste 
cases. 




Boiled Chicken. 

From Mrs. Governor Edwin C. Burleigh, of Maine, Second 
Vice President Board of Lady Managers. 

Joint the chicken; cut in small pieces; remove the skin; 
put into tepid water. Have ready a frying pan vsrith hot 
rnelted butter; put the chicken into the pan and fry to a 
delicate brown; then put into a kettle, cover with w^ter and 
boil very slowly, for an hour. Season. Remove chicken 
and thicken gravy with flour. 



Jami>olaya. 

(A SPANISH CREOLE DISH.) 

From Miss Katharine L. Minor, of Louisiana, Fourth Vice 

President Board of Lady Managers. 

Cut up the remains of a chicken or turkey, cover with 
water, and stew until the substance is extracted; then shred 

70 




MRS. EDWIN C. BUKLEIGH, 



FOR THE TABLE. 71 



the meat. Wash one pound of rice carefully and set aside. 
Put one tablespoon of lard into a porcelain - lined saucepan; 
add a small spoon of finely chopped onion and a tomato; 
then put in the shredded fowl and liquid iii which it was 
boiled, adding the rice, red pepper and salt; sufficient water 
must be added to cover the rice, which must cook and steam 
until soft, but not wet or like mush. 



/Uc/^f<^i 




i  




Chicken Livers, en brochette, witli Bacon. 

From Mrs. Col. James A. Mulligan, of Chicago, Lady Manager. 

Take eighteen fresh chicken livers; dry well; season 
with pepper and salt; cut each liver in two pieces. Prepare 
six slices of lean bacon, broil one minute; cut each slice 
into six pieces. Take six silver skewers; run the skewer 
through the centre of the piece of chicken liver, then 
through a slice of bacon, until each skewer is filled with 
alternate slices of chicken liver and bacon. Roll each one in 
olive oil, then in bread crumbs, and broil five minutes on 
each side over moderate fire. Arrange on hot dish, pour 
Maitre d'Hotel butter over them. Garnish with watercress 
and serve. 




^:^ /^&^4fep.dH^K^ 



72 FAVORITE DISHES 



Polio con Arroz. 

From Senora Don Manuel Chaves, of New Mexico. 

Primerainente se pone a heibir el polio hasta que este 
bien cosido y despues se frie una poca de cobolla en manteca 
junto con el arroz y se le hecha pimienta entera y se le anade 
el caldo, colado, en que se cosio el polio. Despues se anade 
el polio cortado en pedazos pequenos y se le hecha sal. 

Polio con Tomates. 

Lomismo que con arroz, con la excepcion que en lugar 
de arroz se le echan tomates. 

Tamales de Chile. 

Lomismo, con la excepcion que en lugar de echarles 
azucar, canela y pasas se les echa en el medio carne con chile 
y sal. 



Coquilles de Volallle. 

From Miss Josephine Shakspeare, of Louisiana, Lady Manager. 

Boil the chicken until very tender; pull the meat from 
the bones in flakes; remove all the skin and cut the meat 
into very small pieces. Take one - half pint of the chicken 
broth, one teaspoonful of minced onion, the same of minced 
parsley, tw^o tablespoons of butter rubbed into same quantity 
of flour, let this cook for a fev^r moments and add one - half 
pint of cream or rich milk. Season the meat v^rith a little 
cayenne pepper and some salt; add to this a small box of 
truffles, cut fine, also a box of mushrooms thinly sliced ; stir 
all this into the sauce. If there should not be enough to 



FOR THE TABLE. 73 



cov^er the meat, add more broth, cream, butter and pepper, 
little by little, until you have enough sauce and of the jright 
consistency. It should be as thick as rich cream. When cold 
add a claret glass of sherry wine. Before taking from the 
fire, add to it two more tablespoons of butter, a little at a 
time, never add all at once, it may oil it. Fill the shells, 
sprinkle bread crumbs on top and about twenty minutes 
before ready to serve them, place in a very hot oven to 
brown. Must not stand after cooked. 




Croquettes. 

From Mrs. L. C. Gillespie, of Tennessee, Lady Manager. 

Breast of a large turkey; five sweetbreads; one and one- 
half pint of milk ; one - half pound butter; five tablespoonfuls 
of flour; two eggs. Chop the turkey and sweetbreads very 
fine, . using a silver knife for chopping the sweetbreads. 
Beat the whites and yolks of the eggs separately as you 
would for a cake. Mix the eggs, butter, flour and milk in a 
porcelain vessel and cook until the mixture comes to the con- 
sistency of cream sauce; and that it may cook smoothly, it 
will be necessary to make first a thick paste of the flour by 
stirring into it a very small quantity of the milk, gradually 
thinning it with more of the milk. While cooking it must 
be stirred constantly, and as soon as it is sufficiently thick add 
to the mixture the chopped turkey and sweetbreads and cook 
the whole for two minutes longer. Use no seasoning but 
pepper (white or cayenne) and salt to the taste. This 
quantity will make twenty - two large croquettes, which are 
prettiest moulded in a pear - shaped wine glass. ' With a little 



74 FAVORITE DISHES 



practice you can mould them in your hand. Have ready 
some cracker crumbs rolled very fine and dust like. Fry the 
croquettes in boiling lard and enough to cover them. When 
a rich brown take them out and place on sieve or brown 
paper to rid them of the surplus grease. Run them into a 
well heated oven for a few minutes before serving. Put a 
teaspoonful of cream sauce on the top of each croquette. 



Vvou-i. C.CJJLLaJ^ 



Chicken Croquettes. 

From Mrs. Sarah H. Bixby, of Maine, Alternate Lady 

Manager. 

Chop one -half pound chicken quite fine; add one tea- 
spoonful salt; one saltspoonful pepper; one saltspoonful celery 
salt; one teaspoon lemon juice;, one tablespoon chopped 
parsley and a few drops of onion juice; moisten with the thick 
cream sauce. 

Thick Cream Saucs — Melt two tablespoons butter; 
add two heaping tablespoons cornstarch; one teaspoon salt 
and one saltspoon pepper; add slowly one pint hot cream and 
beat well. 

Curry of Chicken in Puffs. 

From Senora Teresa Armijo de Symington, of New Mexico. 

First prepare your puffs by the following recipe. In- 
gredients: Two cupfuls of milk, two of f!our, two eggs 



FOR THE TABLE, 75 



and a piece of butter the size of an ^%% melted; a little salt; 
beat the eggs separately and well; add the milk to the yolks, 
then the flour and so on, the whites last; beat all well 
together. They may be baked in teacups. This quantity 
will make about a dozen puffs. 

Curry of Chicken — Buy a young chicken, cut it into 
pieces, leaving out all the bones ; season with pepper and salt 
to taste; fry them in butter until well done; cut an onion 
fine, which fry in the same butter until brown; add a tea- 
cupful of clear stock, a teaspoonful of sugar. Take about 
a tablespoonful of curry powder and a little flour, mix and 
rub together with a little of the stock until quite smooth; 
add to the sauce pan; put in the chicken and let it boil for 
a few minutes; just before taking out add the juice of half 
a lemon. When this is all ready proceed to fill puffs while 
hot and serve immediately. Garnish puffs with parsley and 
serve a dish of cold slaw with it. 



Ji^^^ .^^*^^/>^^ L^5^^^^- 



Pllauf. 

From Miss Floride Cuningham, of South Carolina, Lady 

Manager. 

Select a good fat hen, one pound of bacon strip, and one 
dozen whole black peppers, and boil together until quite 
done. Take them out of the pot, and put into the liquid left 
a pint and a half of rice, seasoned with a dessertspoonful of 
salt, boil twenty minutes, drain from it any of the juice that 
may remain, and place the pot again on the range, where 
the rice cannot burn, but where it will have the opportunity 
to dry thoroughly — each grain remaining apart. Keep the 




yo fA VORITE DISHES 

chicken hot and brown the bacon in the oven. When the 
rice is ready serve in an open dish, place the chicken on the 
top and pour over it a rich sauce of melted butter and hard 
boiled eggs chopped fine. The bacon can be sliced very 
thin and served with lettuce as a course. 




f^ricassee Chicken. 

From Mrs. Helen C. Bravton, o£ South Caroiin; 
ol State Board and Lady Manager 



Cut the chicken in pieces and 
stew in as much water as will cover it. 
Add a bunch of sweet herbs, white 
pepper and onions. When cooked, 
add the yolks of six eggs, glass of 
white wine, chopped parsley, butter, 
and tablespoonful of cream, all beaten 



 W ^^^^ 



A flood Roast Turkey. 

n Mrs. Helen A. Peck, of Missouri, Alternate Lady 
Manager - at - Large, 

L ordinary turkey weig-hing eight to ten pounds 
i at least two hours for proper and thorough cook- 



FOR THE TABLE. 77 



ing. Prepare your fowl and rub dry with a clean towel; 
then mix a little pepper and salt and rub both inside and 
outside of the turkey before putting in the dressing. Grate 
stale bread, about three cups; then add a small teaspoon of 
pepper and the same amount of powdered sage or sweet 
marjoram, salt and a little salt fat pork chopped very fine or 
a piece of butter the size of an ^^%\ use warm water to mix 
the whole to the consistency of thick batter; beat an ^^^ and 
stir into it the last thing; stuff the breast with half of the 
dressing, then sew up with coarse white thread and put the 
remaining dressing into the body and sew up. Take skewers 
of wood or iron and pin the wings closely to the sides, then 
turn the neck back and pin that firmly. One can use twine 
and tie them if they haven't the skewers. Force the legs 
down and tie tightly to the body before placing the turkey 
in the dripping pan with nearly a pint of water. Have a 
brisk fire and baste the turkey at least every fifteen minutes 
with these drippings. This frequent basting is of great 
importance as it keeps in the juices and allows thorough 
cooking. Turn the turkey two or three times during the 
cooking. During the last half hour dredge with flour and 
butter freely. The crisp pasty look so desirable and appetiz- 
ing comes from this. Cook gizzard and liver in a sauce pan 
on the stove until thoroughly tender, then . chop very fine 
and put them in the gravy to boil thoroughly in the dripping 
pan in the gravy which is delicious, and to be served from a 
tureen. 




78 FAVORITE DISHES, 



Dressing for Turkey. 

From Mrs. W. H. Felton, of Georgia, Lady Manager. 

Bread crumbs and cold rice, equal quantities; season 
with pepper, onion and salt to taste, mixing well with cup of 
butter and yolks of three hard boiled eggs; dress the outside 
with circles of white hard boiled eggs and sprigs of parsley 
or celery. 



How to Cook Chestnuts. 

From Miss Eloise L. Roman, of Maryland, Alternate Lady 

Manager. 

Two quarts of water to one quart of fresh chestnuts. If 
dried they should be soaked several hours in cold water. Boil 
from three - quarters to one hour. Abut five minutes before 
they are done add a handful of salt. Peel and skin, serve 
hot, browned in butter, or cold with salad dressing and equal 
parts of chopped celery. When parboiled and skinned 
with salt and a little pepper it makes an excellent dressing 
for turkeys. 



O K>y-vx:uL.Qi.. IX^ 



wild Duck In Matykuid. 

From Mrs. William Rbbd, oI Marj'land, Ladj Manager. 

Wild ducks, canvasshack, redheads, etc., nre roasted 
without stuffing. After they are picked and thoroughly 
cleansed, roast them in a tin kitchen before a hot fire or in 
a quick oven for twentj'-one minutes. They should he well 
browned on the outside, but the blood should run when cut 
with a knife. Unless underdone the flavor of the duck is 
destroyed. Fried hominy is generally served with wild 
duck; and fresh celery. Currant jelly is sometimes used. 



Snipe and Woodcock Broiled on Toast. 

From Mrs. Rufus S. Frost, of Massachusetts, Lady Manager. 

Prepare the birds with great care; place in baking tin 
and put in oven. Pour into the tin enough water, boiling 
hot, to cover the bottom of the tin or bake pan; cover the 
bake pan with another tin ; keep them closely covered and 
let them cook very steadily until tender, adding from time to 



8o FAVORITE DISHES 



time enough boiling hot water to keep birds from burning, 
or even sticking to the tin. When very tender remove 
from the oven and from the bake pan, carefully saving all the 
liquid in the pan, which you set on top of the stove, which is 
the foundation and Xh^ flavor for your sauce or gravy which 
you make in this pan for your birds after they are broiled. 
Have in an earthen dish some melted butter; dip the birds 
in the butter and then in Indian or corn meal and put on the 
gridiron to brown and finish cooking; keep them hot as 
possible until you serve. Arrange nicely trimmed pieces of 
toasted bread on the heated platter, put on each piece a bird, 
pour over and around the birds on the platter a sauce which 
you make in the bake pan in which your birds were semi- 
cooked, and which you have kept on top of the range while 
your birds were broiling. Pour into this pan of liquid or 
" juice " one teacup sweet cream, and thicken with one 
tablespoon butter, yolk of one ^^% and two tablespoons 
of Indian meal; let it boil up once just to thicken, and 
pour boiling hot onto the birds and toast on platter, saving 
some to send in in separate serving dish. If you prefer 
flour to the corn meal to dip the birds in after the melted 
butter bath, use flour also to thicken the sauce or gravy, 
which should be a brown sauce or gravy and is generally 
brown enough if made in roasting pan. A prize cook in 
Washington once confided to me that " a leetle last year's 
spiced pickle syrup am luscious flavor for gravy of the wee 
birds, robins, quail, snipe and them like." Alas! In the same 
moment of flattering triumph for me^ she added — triumph- 
antly on her part also — " Lor, chile, Pse de only one libing 
dis day dat knows nuff to use that same, sure ! " 



.^^ ^?^yi^ .^-^^ 




MRS. WILLIAM REED. 



FOR THE TABI.B. 



Prairie Chicken. 

From Mrs. E. S. Thomsun, of Maryland, Lady Manager. 

Do not wash praiiie chickens. Cover the breasts with 
very thin slices of bacon, or rub them well with butter; 
roast them before a good fire, basting them often with 
butter, r- ' ' -v...__ _ ,. __. .1 _-j 

and thick. 
take fron 
butter, a 
butter ill : 

over the 
care that 
cayenne ] 

this place 



V^etaMc Oyster. 

From Mrs. Governor Baglev, of Michigan, Lady Manager-at- 

/ regret thai the long dis/a«ee I am from borne freveitts me from 
sending you many -valuable rectfes I would be glad to coulribnte to your 
book. One, however, occurs to me that yon may consider worthy a flace, 
and, I assure yon, makes a very delicious dish. 

Sincerely yours. 



/^^ 



While cooking vegetable oyster put ii» tlie kettle a 
small piece of codfish. This adds very much to its flavor 
and delicacy and makes a delicious dish out of what would 
otherwise be an almost tasteless vegetable. The codfish 
should, of course, be removed before sending to the table. 



CMiHflower wKh Tartar Sauce. 

\ Mrs. Myra Bradweul, of Chicago, Lady Manager 



which has been stirred the jtii 



: cup of drawn butter in 
of a lemon, and a half 



» 



FOR THE TABLE, 



S3 



teaspoonful of French mustard, mixed up well with the 



sauce. 





Scalloped Potatoes. 

From Mrs. Beriah Wilkins, of District of Columbia, Fifth Vice- 
President, Board of Lady Managers. 

Slice six raw potatoes as thin as wafers. This can be 
done with a sharp knife, although there is a little instrument 
for the purpose, to be had at the house furnishing stores, 
which flutes prettily as well as slices evenly. Lay in ice 
water a few minutes; then put a layer in the bottom of a 
pudding dish, and over this sprinkle salt and pepper and 
small bits of butter; then another layer of potatoes and so on 
until the dish is full. Pour over this a pint of milk, stick 
bits of butter thickly over it. Cover the dish, set it in the 
oven, bake half an hour. Remove the cover if not suf- 
ficiently brown. 



)M-^ 





Escalloped Sweet Potatoes. 

From 3Irs. P. B. Winston, of Minnesota, Alternate Lady Manager. 

Take large sweet potatoes; parboil them slightly and 
cut them in transverse slices. Prepare a deep baking dish 



I 



84 FAVORITE DISHES 

and cover the bottom witFi a layer of slices; add a little 
butter, a very little sugar and nutmeg. Strew over this a 
few bits of orange peel and add a little juice of the orange. 
Fill the dish in like manner, finishing with fine shred of 
orange peel. Bake until tender and you will have a dish to 
satisfy an epicure. 



Potato Puff. 

(A LA GENEVE.) 

From Mrs. H. F. Brown, of Minnesota, Lady Manager. 

Whip mashed potatoes light and soft, with milk, butter 
and two raw eggs; season with pepper and salt, and beat in 
a few spoonfuls of powdered cheese. Pile upon a bake- 
dish and brown nicely. Serve in dish. 




■.^ 




Potato Croquettes. 

From Mrs. Frances P. Burrows, of Michigan, Alternate Lady 

Manager. 

Four large mealy potatoes, cold. Mash them; add two 
tablespoons of fresh, melted butter, pinch of salt, a little 
pepper, one tablespoon of cream. Whip it for about five 
minutes or until very smooth and light. Make into forms, 
roll them in a beaten egg and bread crumbs. Fry in boiling 
lard. 



^L^^ ^ x^ 




FOR THE TABLE. 



85 



Potatoes — Mashed. 
From Mrs. £. J. P. Howes, of Michigan, Lady Manager. 

Peel potatoes tliin; put into boiling water with 
a little salt added. Cook until tender; drain off the 
water and remove the cover a few moments to dry ^g^ 
the potatoes; turn into an earthen dish that has been 
heated, and beat up with a wire beater or silver fork, 
moistening the whole with cream ; or, if not avail- 
able, milk with a little butter will answer; salt to taste and 
mold in any desired form when it is ready to serve. A 
wooden masher is apt to make it heavy, while beating will 
make it light and creamy. 




^^/^^. 



Boston Baked Beans. 

From Mrs. Elizabeth C. Langworthy, of Nebraska, Lady 

Manager. 

Soak one quart of small, dry beans over night. Parboil 
in the morning and place in earthen jar, with salt and pepper 
to taste. Add one -half teaspoon soda and two tablespoons 
of molasses; also a small piece of salt pork. Cover with 
water and bake eight hours, adding boiling water as needed. 



86 FAVORITE DISHES 



lima Beans. 



From Mrs. Mariam D. Cooper, of Montana, Alternate Lady 

Manager. 

Soak beans over night; cook one hour in water, leaving 
very little water when done. Just before serving season 
with pepper, salt, cream and butter and heat thoroughly. 



Baked Tomatoes. 

From Mrs. Governor Rickards, of Montana, President State 

Board and Lady Manager. 

Select large -sized, smooth and round tomatoes. Cut 
from the stem end a slice and lay aside. Scoop all the inside 
of tomato out, being careful not to break through; add half 
as much cracker or bread crumbs; season highly with salt 
and pepper; add plenty of butter, a dash or two of cayenne; 
put on the stove and cook for ten minutes. Now fill the 
hollow tomatoes with this dressing; when full, add four or 
six whole cloves, putting them on top of the dressing; either 
pile up high or make level and put on the sliced top. Place 
tomatoes in a large baking pan, with a little hot water to 
prevent sticking. Bake fifteen minutes. 




^ /W^^^ 



FOR THE TABLE, 87 



Baked Tomatoes. 



From Mrs. Augusta Truman, of California, Lady Alternate- 

at - Large. 

Select smooth, medium - sized tomatoes; make a small 
aperture at the stalk end; remove the pulp and seeds with a 
spoon and put into a sieve to drain. Cliop equal parts of 
cold chicken and veal and one green pepper; add a well- 
beaten ^%%'i half cup grated bread crumbs, piece of butter, 
pepper, salt, sage and a suspicion of onion; mix well together; 
moisten with some of the juice; fill the tomatoes; bake half 
an hour in a moderate oven. Serve each tomato on a lettuce 
leaf. This makes a pretty as well as a savory entree. 

stewed Tomatoes. 

From Miss Mary H. Krout, of Indiana, Alternate Lady Manager. 

Take one quart of firm ripe tomatoes; stew one hour 
and a half over an even fire and stir frequently to prevent 
scorching; then add half a cup of bread crumbs, one tea- 
spoonful of sugar, salt to taste, a pinch of cayenne pepper, a 
heaping tablespoonful of good butter and half a cup of sweet 
cream. Boil together twenty minutes and serve hot. 



fu. 



^ //• kyruj- 






88 



FAVORITE DISHES 




From Mrs. Governor John M. Stone, of Mississippi, Lady 

Manager. 



Boil until perfectly done; then pour melted 
butter, salt and pepper over and serve hot. 




}^ . oU^^t^ 



Farsnips — Stewed. 

From Mrs. M. R. Lee, of Mississippi, Lady Manager. 

Wash, scrape,. and slice about half an inch thick; have a 
skillet prepared with half pint hot water and a tablespoon 
butter; add the parsnips, season with salt and pepper, cover 
closely and stew until the water is cooked away, stirring 
occasionally to prevent burning. When done the parsnips 
will be of a creamy, light brown color. 



7h (4^ c£o^ 



Stuffed Qreen Peppers. 

From Mrs. Alice B. Castleman, of Kentucky, Alternate Lady 

Manager. 

Cut off the small end of the pepper; make a slit down 
the side; remove all the seeds. Mince fine cold chicken, veal 
or shrimps, and add a little stale bread soaked in water and 
well squeezed to drj' it; one - half teaspoonful minced onion; 
a little minced parsley, pepper, salt and one tablespoonful of 



\ 



jj 



FOR THE TABLE. 89 



butter. Put a large tablespoonful of butter in a spider and 
heat the dressing for the peppers in it for a few minutes; 
then stuff them, tie on the tops and the sides together also. 
In a sauce pan put a heaping tablespoonful of butter; when 
hot add one -half tablespoonful of flour, which brown in the 
butter; add a little onion minced fine and a cup of water; put 
in the peppei^, cover closely and let them simmer slowly 
until tender; when done, add one tablespoonful of butter, 
pepper and salt to taste. 




^ 'Sa.^.^Z^^ 



Corn Oysters. 

From Mrs. John S. Briggs, of Nebraska, Lady Manager. 

One teacup milk, three eggs, one pint green corn grated 
very fine, a little salt and as much flour as will make a 
slightly stiff batter; beat the eggs, the yol-ks and whites 
separately. To the yolks of the eggs add the milk, corn, 
salt and flour; beat the whole very hard, then stir in the 
whites of the eggs and the oysters; after having dredged 
them in a portion of the grated corn, drop this batter, a 
spoonful at a time, into hot lard and fry until done. 




^^^^^^^^^^ 



Fried Egg Plant. 

From Mrs. Lily Rosecrans Toole, of Montana, Lady Manager. 

Pare the ^^^ plant and cut in very thin slices; sprinkle 
each slice with salt and pepper; pile them evenly; put a tin 



90 FAVORITE DISHES 



plate over them and on this stand a flatiron to press out the 
juice. Let stand one hour. Beat an ^^^ lightly and add to 
it a tablespoonful of boiling water; dip each slice first in this 
and then in bread crumbs. Put three tablespoonfuls of lard 
into a frying pan; when hot saute the slices, a few at a time; 
brown one side then turn and brown the other. As the 
fat is consumed add more, waiting each time for it to heat 
before putting in the ^^^ plant. Drain on brown paper and 
serve very hot. Tomato catsup should be served with it. 
{^Mrs, Rohrer^s Cook Book,) 




Macaroni - Good. 

From Mrs. Sam S. Fifield, of Wisconsin, Alternate Lady 

Manager. 

Five tablespoons of grated cheese, one of flour, one of 
butter, one egg^ one -half cup of cream, salt and pepper; put 
over the fire and stir until the cheese is dissolved. Boil one- 
fourth package of macaroni in salted water about fifteen 
minutes, drain, cover with milk and boil again. Stir all 
together and bake until brown. 

Rice as a Vegetable. 

From Mrs. Charles H. Olmstead, of Georgia, Lady Manager. 

Wash and pick thoroughly one quart of rice; put in pot 
containing two quarts of boiling water; salt to taste; let the 



FOR THE TABLE, 9 1 



nee boil for fifteen minutes; then pour off all the water that 
has not been absorbed by the rice and place the pot on back 
of stove to steaai; stir occasionally until grains of rice sep- 
arate. 




Cranberries. 

From Mrs. Lana A. Bates, of Nebraska, Alternate Lady 

Manager. 

After removing all soft berries, wash thoroughly; place 
for about two minutes in scalding water, remove, and to 
every pound of fruit add three-quarters of a pound of 
granulated sugar and a half pint of water; stew together 
over a moderate but steady fire. Be careful to cover and 
not stir the fruit, but shake the vessel. If attention to these 
particulars be given the berries will retain their shape to 
quite an extent, which materially adds to their appearance 
on the table. Boil from ?[\q to seven minutes; remove from 
the fire; turn into a deep dish, and set aside to cool. If 
strained sauce be preferred, one and a half pounds of fruit 
should be stewed in one pint of water for ten or fifteen 
minutes or until quite soft; then strain through a colander 
or fine wire sieve; add three quarters of a pound of sugar 
and return to the fire and boil three minutes, stirring con- 
stantly ; set away to cool, when it will be ready for use. 




^^iyO^^'Z^tZ/ 



\^. ^^a^ 



Plain Omelet with Eight Eggs. 

From Mrs. L. Brace Shattuck, of Chkago, Ladj' Manager. 

Beat separately and very lightly the whites and yolks 
of eight eggs. To one tablespoon of flour add one -half 
teaspoon of baking powder and one. half cup of sweet milk. 
Add the beaten yolks and lastly the beaten whites of the 
eggs. Have ready a hot frying pan, with a generous 
amount of melted butter, into which pour, a cupful at a time, 
the mixture. As soon as it sets, lift carefully the one half 
over upon the other, and when done remove to a hot plate 
and serve immediately. This omelet is exceedingly light 
and is sufficient for four or five persons. 



Qreen Corn Omelet. 

From Mrs. Frances P. Burrows, of Michigan, Alternate Lady 
Manager, 

Grate twelve ears of boiled corn. Beat five eggs until 
light and stir into the corn; season with peppei- and salt, 
and one tablespoon butter; fry until brown. If fried in 



FOR THE TABLE. 93 



small cakes with a little flour and milk stirred in to make a 
batter, it will be found excellent. 



Omelet with Ham. 

From Mrs. Naomi T. Compton, of New Jersey, Alternate Lady 

Manager. 

Have a teacupful of very finely minced ham prepared 
for use as soon as the eggs are ready. Beat the whites of 
eight eggs separately and have the yolks beaten the same 
length of time as the whites. We always put the eggs in 
the refrigerator over night if the omelet is to be used for 
breakfast, for the eggs will beat much better if thoroughly- 
cold. We use the same amount of flour and milk as of ham, 
but moisten the flour with milk until it is of the consistency 
of cream, pouring in the milk and flour with the yolks of the 
eggs. Add lastly the whites, beaten stiff, alternating with 
the finely minced ham and whites, until all are combined. 
Do not stir around in one direction, but lift the yellow mix- 
ture up through and into the white. Get it into the oven as 
soon as possible, which must be blazing hot. If baked in a 
bread tin it will usually rise to double the amount. If you 
prefer baking on the top of a stove, have your frying pan 
hot, with plenty of butter, and turn the omelet as soon as 
the edges are cooked. Great care must be taken not to have 
the pan keep too hot after the cooking begins, for nothing 
burns so quickly as ^%%^ and if scorched the delicate flavor is 
lost. Plain flour can be used with the proper proportions of 
baking powder. 

Omelet must be eaten directly after it comes from the 



94 FAVORITE DISHES 



fire to be tasted at its best. A little chopped parsley may be 
added as a flavoring, but it need not be chopped so finely as 
the ham. 




•^ C^-^'^^^Si^^  



Omelets-Plain. 

From Miss Mary E. Busselle, of New Jersey, Lady Manager. 

Four eggs, well beaten; four tablespoons milk; two 
tablespoons melted butter. Bake in a quick oven, in but- 
tered round jelly tins, and when browned, turn half over 
and send to the table hot. 



Stuffed Egs:5. 

From Mrs. Ralph Trautmann, of New York City, First Vice- 
President Board of Lady Managers. 

Boil twelve eggs for twenty minutes; cut in halves; 
take out the yolks and mash to a paste, adding one onion 
chopped fine, butter size of an Q%%^ one - half cup of milk, a 
little chopped parsley, with salt and pepper to taste. Mix 
well; roll this paste into balls and refill the empty halves, 
joining the cut eggs together again with the white of a raw 
^Z%' Roll the stuffed eggs in beaten yolk and cracker 
crumbs, and brown in boiling lard, same as crullers. Drain 
well and serve on toast or lettuce leaves. 





yZ'^i>t^c^. 




MRS. RALPH TRAUTMANN. 



FOR THE TABLE, 95 

Deviled Eggs for Luncheon or Picnics. 

From Mrs. Isabella Laning Candee, of Illinois, Alternate Lady 

Manager. 

Boil any number of eggs very hard, turning over care- 
fully in the vvrater several times to prevent their being 
unevenly cooked; put into cold water a few moments and 
then take off shells; cut in halves carefully and take out the 
yolks; mash these fine with a silver spoon (use a silver knife 
for cutting and filling) and add to them as much good 
mayonnaise dressing as may be required to make a smooth 
paste with which fill the empty halves; put them evenly 
together, fasten with toothpicks, and wrap each ^^^ in white 
tissue paper and put in the ice chest until ready to serve. 



JaJ^eS^a/Q^ 



';a44.444 




Escalloped Eggs. 

From Mrs. Helen A. Peck, of Missouri, Alternate Lady 

Manager - at - Large. 

Escalloped eggs makes a savory dish and this is how to 
prepare them: Put half a dozen eggs into a sauce pan of 
boiling water and keep the pan where it will be hot for half 
an hour, but not where the water will boil. At the end of 
the prescribed time lay the eggs in cold water for ?i\^ 
minutes, and then remove the shells. Cut the whites into 
thin slices and rub the yolks through a coarse sieve. Mix 
both parts lightly, and after putting the mixture into an 
escallop dish pour over it a sauce made as follows: Put two 
tablespoonfuls of butter into a frying pan, and when it has 
been melted add a heaping tablespoonful of flour. Stir until 
the mixture is smooth and frothy, then gradually add a pint 



C)5 PA VORITE DISHES. 



of cold milk. Boil up once and season with salt and pepper. 
After pouring the sauce over the eggs spread a large cupful 
of grated bread crumbs on top of the dish and cook for 
fifteen minutes iu a hot oven, if care be taken to prevent 
the eggs from boiling at any time during the thii-ty minutes 
the dish will be delicate and digestible. 



How to Take ^g. 

From Mrs. Naomi T. Comfton, o£ New Jersey, Alternate Lady 
Manager. 

Have never seen this recipe for preparing an egg for 
invalids or convalescents, so I venture to add it on account of 
its excellence. Some people dislike the taste of raw egg, 
aiid would find it palatable in other ways than beaten up 
with wine, or taken in a glass of sweetened milk. Prepare 
a cup of coffee to the taste, with cream and sugar, keeping it 
veiy hot untd ready for the egg, which must be beaten 
thoroughly in another cup, and the prepared coffee added by 
degrees to the egg; drink it hot, and you will never want to 
take coffee again without the addition of e 



C't^-*-*^^^^*-^ . 



Lobster SaUd. 

From Mrs. Charles Price, of North Carolina, Third Vice 
President, Board of Lad^ Managers. 

Lobsters are done when they assume a red color, which 
will only require a few minutes hard boiling. Remove the 
skin and bones, pick to pieces with a fork, marinate them, 
i. e., place in a dish and season with salt, pepper and a little 
oil, plenty of vinegar and a little onion cut up; then cover 
and let ^tand two or three hours. Cut up hard boiled eggs 
for a border, line the bottom of the dish with lettuce leaves, 
place the lobster on the dish in a ring. Mayonnaise can be 
used if desired, but the lobster is excellent without it. 



t^'VU^ ^iU^iJc^ Ton. 



0~zct/ 



From Mrs. A. M. Palmer, of New York, Alternate Ladv 
Manager. 

Ingredients: One fowl (boiled); one cucumber; two 
heads lettuce; two beets (boiled). Dressing made according 
to the following recipe: One teaspoonful mixed mustard; 



9^ FAVORITE DISHES 

one -half teaspoonful sugar; four tablespoonfuls salad oil; 
four tablespoonfuls milk; two tablespoonfuls vinegar; cayenne 
and salt to taste; add the oil, drop by drop, to the mustard 
and sugar, mixing carefully; next add milk and vinegar 
very gradually^ lest the sauce curdle, and the seasoning. 
Place the shredded chicken on a bed of lettuce, and pour 
the dressing over it. Around the edge arrange rings of 
hard boiled eggs, sliced cucumber and beet root. 




Southern Chicken Sahul. 

SPLENDID — TRY IT ONCE. 

From Mrs. Charles J. McClung, of Tennessee, Alternate Lady 

Manager. 

Cut one chicken into small pieces (not too small); boil 
one ^^^ hard and pulverize the yolk (cut the white into the 
chicken); add the beaten yolks of three raw eggs; one -half 
teaspoonful each of ground mustard, white pepper, salt, sugar 
and celery salt or seed, the juice of one lemon, one table- 
spoonful melted butter, one tablespoonful salad oil (some 
prefer all butter); beat all well together imtil light and pour 
into one gill of boiling vinegar and let all cook until thick 
as cream, stirring constantly to avoid curdling. When cold 
pour over your chicken, to which has been added as much 
chopped celery, and salt and pepper to taste. 



FOR THE TABLE, 99 



Chicken Salad. 



From Mrs. Margaret M. Ratcliffe, of Arkansas, Alternate 

Lady Manager. 

As the Irishman would say, turkey makes the best 
chicken salad. Boil till well done. Use only the white 
meat, which cut with sharp scissors into pieces about one- 
half inch square; add an equal quantity of celery cut in 
same manner, sprinkling over it salt and pepper. Put in a 
cold place till two hours before serving, when add the fol- 
lowing dressing: For one chicken take three eggs, one cup 
of vinegar, one cup of sweet milk, one - half cup butter, one 
tablespoon made mustard, salt, black and red pepper, beat 
eggs, melt butter ; stir all together over a slow fire tiH it 
thickens; when cool beat into it one cup of cream. Serve 
salad on crisp, well - bleached lettuce leaves, on the top of 
each putting a small quantity of the following mayonnaise 
dressing: The yolks of two uncooked eggs, one tablespoon 
salt, beat with an eggbeater, adding gradually pure olive 
oil till one pint is used. When the mixture becomes too 
thick add, as required, one teaspoon of vinegar or lemon 
juice. If the oil is well incorporated by thorough beating, 
this dressing will keep an indefinite time. 




Vegetable Salad. 

From Mrs. Florence H. Kidder, of North Carolina, Lady 

Manager. 

One pint of cold boiled potatoes, cut in slices ; one - third 
the quantity of cold boiled beets cut^«^; one -third the 



ICX) FAVORITE DISHES 



quantity of green peas (winter beets and canned peas are as 
good as fresh ones); sprinkle with salt and pepper, then 
pour over it a French dressing made of a saltspoonful of salt, 
one of black pepper, a teaspoonful of onion juice or grated 
onion,, three tablespoonfuls of olive oil and one of vinegar; 
mix thoroughly and set aside. When ready to serve spread 
over it a thick mayonnaise dressing and garnish with slices 
of beet, cut in shapes, hard boiled ^^^ and parsley; if made 
in summer a border of crisp lettuce leaves is an additional 
garnish. If the quantity of vegetable is increased the 
amount of dressing must also be doubled or the ^alad will be 
dry. A small portion of the mayonnaise mixed with the 
vegetables also is an improvement. 





String Bean Salad. 

(FRENCH RECIPE.) 

From Mrs. Caroline E. Dennis, of New York State, Alternate 

Lady Manager - at - Large. 

String the beans and boil them whole; when boiled 
tender and they have become cold, slice them lengthwise, 
cutting each bean into four long slices; season them an hour 
or two before serving, with a marinade of a little pepper, 
salt, and three spoonfuls of vinegar to one spoonful of oil. 
Jpst before serving, drain from them any drops of super- 
fluous liquid that may have collected and carefully mix them 
with a French dressing. This makes a delicious salad. 

French Salad Dressing — One tablespoon of vinegar; 
three tablespoons of olive oil ; one saltspoon of pepper, and 
one saltspoon of salt. (This is half a spoon too much 



MRS. LAURA E. HOWEY. 



FOR THE TABLE. loi 



pepper for Americans.) Add a trifle of onion, scraped fine, 
or rubbed on the salad bowl, if it is desired at all. Pour the 
oil, mixed with the pepper and salt, over the salad; mix 
them well together; then add the vinegar, and mix again. 
Serve on a leaf of crisp lettuce. 




to. to 



Excellent Potato Salad. 

From Mrs. Genevieve M. Guthrie, of Oklahoma, Lady Manager. 

For four or six people. Cut into dice six medium 
sized potatoes (boiled); three medium onions; salt and pepper 
them to taste; pour over and mix well the following dressing: 
Three well beaten eggs, three large tablespoonfuls of strong 
vinegar, a lump of butter size of a walnut, pinch of salt, 
pepper and mustard (unmixed); put on the stove and cook to 
a thin custard, stirring constantly. 



Tomato Salad. 

From Mrs. Mira B. F. Ladd, of New Hampshire, Lady 

Manager. 

Six tomatoes, one - half cup of mayonnaise dressing, the 
crisp part of one head of lettuce. Peel the tomatoes and put 
them on the ice until they are very cold; make the mayon- 
naise and stand it on the ice until wanted ; wash and dry the 
lettuce. When ready to serve, cut the tomatoes in halves, 
make twelve little nests with two or three salad leaves each, 
Arrange on the dish, place half a tomato in each nest, put a 



I02 FAVORITE DISHES 



tablespoonful of mayonnaise on each tomato and serve im- 
mediately. ^ 



Tomato Salad. 

(FOR USB WHEN FRESH TOMATOES ARE NOT IN THE MARKET.) 

From Miss Mary Crease Sears, of Massachusetts, Alternate 

Lady Manager. 

Rub through a coarse sieve one can o^ tomatoes; cover 
with cold water a half box of Cox gelatine and let it stand a 
half hour or more; then pour in enough hot water to thor- 
oughly dissolve it; then mix with one full pint of the strained 
tomatoes; add a little salt; pour into small round moulds and 
put in a cool place to harden. Serve on lettuce leaves with 
mayonnaise dressing. 



^i^^<><XA^ 



a 




Cabbage Salad. 



From Mrs. Theresa J. Cochran, of Vermont, Alternate Lady 

Manager. 

Mix together one - half cup of sugar, one teaspoonful of 
jiustard, one teaspoonful of salt, one - half teaspoonful black 
pepper; then add three well beaten eggs, one -half cup of 
vinegar, six tablespoonfuls of cream, three of butter. Cook 
the same as boiled custard in a kettle of water; when cold 
add the cabbage chopped fine. 



FOR THE TABLE, 103 



Fish Salad. 

From Mrs. Mary C. Bell, of Florida, Lady Manager. 

Pour boiling water over a large mackerel and let stand 
for ten minutes; take out and dry thoroughly by draining 
on a sieve or clean towel. Remove the head, tail and fins, 
and skin and bones. Shred the fish finely and mix with one 
large onion, well chopped. Add mustard, vinegar, and 
pepper to taste. Serve as salad, with young lettuce leaves, 
and garnish with hard-boiled eggs, sliced. This is a de- 
lightful relish with thin -sliced bread and butter, and is 
called " Salmagundi." 



^^^L^ 



^.^^ 



Salad Dressing. 



From Miss Loraine Pearce Bucklin, of Rhode Island, 

Alternate Lady Manager. 

Three eggs, beat yolks and whites separately. To the 
beaten yolks add one tablespoonful of mustard, two table- 
spoonfuls of sugar, one teaspoonful of salt. To the beaten 
whites of the eggs add one cup of cream; beat this thor^ 
oughly together, pour the yolks, mustard, sugar and salt into 
this and put the dish containing it over the teakettle when 
the water boils. When the mixture begins to harden around 
the edge, pour in a cup of vinegar; stir it all the time it is 
over the kettle. After you add the vinegar take it from the 
heat and set in a dish of cold water to cool. 




fi'7^Vt44A^ 



&M^ 





yQHffllT5&rRITTERa 



Famous Dou8:hnuts. 

From Miss Frances E. VVillard, of Illinois, Lady 

Manager. 



To tell you the truths I never knew anything about cooking or had a 
f article of taste for it^ but I will send you the recipe for her famous 
^doughnuts! written out by my beloved mot her ^ and I think about the 
last communication she ever prepared far the press; it was in March of 
last year. There is nothing specially valuable about the recipe except 
that it is good and decidedly old-fashioned, I used to think there was 
nothing so toothsome as mother's *' fried cakes ^^ for sawe called them on the 
old Wisconsin farm. 

Believe me^ yours^ with all good wishes. 




Take a little over one pint of rich, sweet milk, into 
which put two ' thirds of a teacup of sugar and a little salt. 
Sift as much flour as you think will be required, into which 
mix four heaping teaspoonfuls of best baking powder. Stir 
into the milk and sugar six tablespoon fuls of very hot fresh 
lard, pour the mixture into the flour and make a sponge. 
When cooled sufficiently to prevent cooking the ^g^ add one 
egg slightly beaten. Mix to a proper consistency, roll and 
cut into rings. It is hard to give a recipe where so much 

104 



MISS FRANCRS E. WILLARD, 



FOR THE TABLE. 105 



3 



depends upon the judgment and care of the cook. Much 
depends upon having the lard in which the doughnuts are 
fried very hot before they are put in, otherwise they " soak 
up the fat " and are heavy. 



Raised Doughnuts. 

From Mrs. Ellen M. Chandler, of Vermont, Lady Manager. 

One pint warmed milk, one cup sugar, one - half cup 
yeast, one -half teaspoon salt; mix about 10 A. m., let rise 
four hours then add : One cup sugar, two eggs, one - fourth 
cup lard, one - fourth cup butter. Knead and let rise in warm 
place until night, then roll thin and cut out; let rise over 
night in warm place and fry in the morning. 





^ 




Doughnuts. 



From Mrs. Laura E. Howey, of Montana, Secretary State Board 

and Lady Manager. 

Beat well together one ^^^^^ one cup sweet milk, one 
cup sugar (small cup), large teaspoonful of baking powder, 
sprinkle in two cups flour, piece butter size of an ^%^^ pinch 
of salt. Knead soft, cook in skillet well filled with lard just 
to the boiling point; place in dripping pan, so that they may 
not get soggy with the grease while cooling off. 



Io6 FAVORITE DISHES 



Doughnuts. 



From Miss Annie M. Mahan, of West Virginia, Alternate Lady 

Manager. 

One - half cup of butter, one cup of sour milk, one and 
one -half cup of sugar, four eggs, one teaspoon soda (in 
milk), nutmeg, flour to make it stiff enough to roll. 





Callas. 

A CREOLE CAKE EATEN HOT WITH COFFEE. 

From Mrs. Bellb H. Perkins, of Louisiana, President of State 

Board, Lady Manager. 

One teacup of rice well boiled and mashed, one small 
coffee cup of sugar, two tablespoons yeast, three eggs and 
flour sufficient to make a thick batter; beat the whole well 
together and fry in hot lard. Be careful not to have the 
batter too thin, or it will not fry well. 





^^^-^>^^<^ 



Apple Fritters. 



From Mrs. M. P. Hart, of Ohio, President of State Board and 

Lady Manager. 

Make a batter with one cup sweet milk, one teaspoonful 
sugar, two eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately, two 



FOR THE TABLE. 1 07 



cups flour, one teaspoonful baking powder mixed with flour 
Chop some good tart apples, mix them in the batter and fry 
in hot lard. Serve them with maple syrup. 



^hyf^ ^ f I^Ai^L' 



Corn Fritters. 

From Mrs. E. V. McConnell, of North Dakota, Lady Manager 

r 

Two eggs, one tablespoon of cream or sweet milk, one 
cup oyster crackers rolled fine, one can or six ears of sweet 
corn scraped from the cob, pepper and salt to taste. Put 
tablespoon butter in frying pan, have it hot and drop in 
batter by spoonfuls. Fry brown and serve hot for breakfast. 



Clam Fritters. 



From Mrs. Sallie S. Gotten, of North Carolina, President State 

Board and Alternate Lady Manager. 

Open as oysters and chop fine. Make a stiff batter of 
eggs and flour, with a little black pepper. Stir into this 
batter the chopped clams and a little of the clam liquor, if 
necessary to make the batter the proper consistency. Fry in 
hot butter or lard. 



lo8 FAVORITE DISHES 



White Corn Meal Cakes for Breakfast. 

(A RHODE ISLAND DISH.) 

From Mrs. Sarah S. C. Angell, of Michigan, Lady Manager. 

One pint white corn meal, into which you stir two salt- 
spoonfuls salt. Gradually moisten this with boiling water 
until the mixture is somewhat thicker than hasty pudding. 
Stir constantly and after the right consistency is attained, 
beat thoroughly for two minutes. Drop from spoon into 
boiling lard and fry for ?i\^ or six minutes. Serve immedi- 
ately. It is of absolute importance that the water should be 
boiling and kept so, and therefore it is wise to bring the 
mixing dish very near the stove when the teakettle is heated. 
The same paste may be fried on a griddle like buckwheat 
cakes, but the first method makes the crispest, nuttiest flavor. 
This recipe makes bannocks enough for six people. 




Corn Qrlddle Cakes or Old Virginia Slap Jacks. 

From Miss Lily Irene Jackson, of West Virginia, Lady 

Manager. 

One or two eggs, whites beaten to a froth; one quart of 
sweet milk; pinch of salt; meal enough to make a thin 
batter. Bake very thin on hot griddle and serve at once. 
Meal must not be too finely ground or bolted. 




J 



FOR THE TABLE. 



Fried Mush. 



From Mrs. Georgb Hoxworth, o£ Arizona, Alternate Lady 
Manager. 

Three pints boiling water; one cup wheat flour; enough 
corn meal to tniike stiff batter. Fry wliile hot in plenty of 
grease. Think it more convenient than the old way and 
much better. A tablespoonful of sugar added makes it 
brown better 



From Mhs. Mary B. P. Black, 
Lady Ms 

One quart of buttermilk; 
milk; four eggs, beaten separat 
soda, dissolved in half teacup 
and enough flour to make the 
ency. Sift your flour; begin i 
need less or more. Add bu 
do instead), then sweet milk; 
beaten; then soda, having diss 
of buttermilk or sour cream; 
add more flour now, should it 
be needed; lastly, whites of 
eggs, beaten to a stiff froth 
and stirred gently into the thin 
dough. Let the cook be care- 



no 



FAVORITE DISHES 



ful to fill the iron scantily half full, to bake, as these beauti- 
ful waffles to be crisp and tender must have ample space 



to rise. 



y^^. /^/'/^yt 



\ 



Mexican Enchiladas. 

From Mrs. Franc Luse Albright, of New Mexico, Lady 

Manager. 

1. To make the tortillas for the enchiladas, take one 
quart of blue corn meal mixed with water and salt, making a 
batter stiff enough to flatten out into round cakes, and bake 
on the bare hot lid. 

2. To make the chili sauce: One cup of tepid water; 
three tablespoonfuls of ground chili; let boil down to a 
batter. 

3. Filling for tortillas: Grated cheese and chopped 
onions, very fine. 

Dip into a pan of boiling hot lard one tortilla; then dip 
this tortilla into the chili batter; then sprinkle with the 
filling, first the cheese and then the onion. Then put on 
one spoonful of chili batter and lay like a layer cake as 
many cakes as desired, and then pour over the chili batter. 
Cut like cake and serve hot. 





Tomato Conserve. 

From Mrs. Caroline E. Dennisj of New York State, Alternate 

Lady Manager -at -Large. 

Three pounds of sugar, to three pounds of tomatoes; 
add two lemons, peeled and sliced very thin ; sliver the peel 
into smallest bits and add, with two inches of preserved 
ginger root, also cut very fine. Put tomatoes in a kettle, 
mash with a spoon, mix in the sugar, lemons and ginger, 
and boil slowly for three hours, or until the preserve is of 
the consistency of marmalade. This is a new and very 
choice sweetmeat; and, so far as we know, is not to be 
found in any other recipe - book. 




to»to 



Orange Marmalade. 

From Mrs. Governor Oglesby, of Illinois, Lady Manager. 

One dozen imperial oranges (good pulp and thick 

yellow skin); their scant weight in sugar. Peel six and 

III 



112 FAVORITE DISHES 



grate the yellow rind without the white skin. Slice the peel 
from the other six into thin shreds; boil in three waters till 
very tender. Chop the oranges, removing all tough fibres 
and seeds; put on, with the juice that drains from the 
oranges, the sugar, a little water and the drained orange peel 
shreds; boil fifteen minutes, then add the pulp and grated 
rind and boil twenty minutes. 




Compote of Apples. 

From Mrs. Hattie E. Sladden, of Oregon, Alternate Lady 

Manager. 

Make a syrup of one quart of water and one pint of 
white sugar. Pare and core (without breakfng) six tart 
apples; stew in syrup until tender. Remove the apples to a 
deep glass dish ; then add to the syrup a box of gelatine and 
cinnamon stick. When thoroughly dissolved, pour over the 
apples, first removing the cinnamon bark. 



Steamed Peaches. 

From Mrs. W. Newton Linch, of West Virginia, Lady Manager. 

Place the fruit in a steamer and allow it to remain until 
skin can be removed, as that from a scalded tomato. Make 
a strong syrup of granulated sugar; place the peaches in the 
jar, pour the syrup over them very hot and seal at once. 
Steamed peaches make a delightful dish for lunch during 



FOR THE TABLE. II3 



their season. Do not make the syrup quite so strong and 
allow the peaches to get very cold before serving. 



Quince Preserves. 

From Mrs. M. P. Hart, of Ohio, President of State Board and 

Lady Manager. 

Pare and core the quinces. Put the parings and cores 
into a kettle with sufficient water to cover them, and let 
them boil for a short time. Then strain and pour the liquid 
over the quinces. Let the quinces cook until they are soft 
before adding the sugar. The quinces and syrup must be 
boiled until they become transparent and of a rich colon 
The rule is one poimd of sugar to a pound of fruit; a less 
quantity of sugar will be sufficient if the fruit should be well 
cooked and carefully sealed. 



Watermelon Preserves. 

From Mrs. H. K. Ingram, of Florida, Alternate Lady Manager. 

Take a thick rind of a ripe watermelon. Cut into 

small strips, or any desirable fancy shapes; cut off all the 

red inside part and scrape off all the hard outside shell. Boil 

the pieces in water with peach or grape leaves and soda, in 

the proportion of a dozen leaves and a teaspoonful of soda 

to two quarts of water. When tender, take them out of the 

water and put them in cold water that has had half a large 
8 • 



114 FAVORITE DISHES 



spoonful of alum dissolved in it. They will then become 
brittle and green. Let them soak in the alum water for an 
hour; then rinse in clear, cold water, and boil in a syrup 
made of equal weight of white sugar. Boil with them 
lemons cut in thin slices, allowing one lemon to two pounds 
of rind. Boil fifteen or twenty minutes. When a little 
cool, add a little essence of ginger, or if not the essence, boil 
in the syrup with the rinds a little green or ground ginger 
tied in bits of thin cloth. After three or four days pour the 
syrup off and boil down to a rich syrup that will just cover 
the rinds, and pour it over them scalding hot. 




Blackberry Jam. 

From Mrs. Mary S. McNeal, of Oklahoma, Alternate Lady 

Manager. 

Put the fruit into a preserving kettle and boil fifteen or 
twenty minutes, stirring often and skimming off any scum 
that may rise; then add sugar in the proportion of three- 
fourths pound of sugar to one pound of fruit. Boil thirty 
minutes longer, stirring continually; when done, pour into 
small jars or jelly glasses. 




Canned Spiced Blackberries. 

From Mrs. H. J. Peto, of Arizona, Alternate Lady Manager 

Wash the berries carefuUv and drain in a colander. 
For each quart of fruit add two cups granulated sugar and 



FOR THE TABLE, 1 15 



one -half cup of pure cider vinegar. Put all in a porcelain 
lined sauce pan, set on the stove and scald thoroughly; then 
add one - half dozen cloves and one and one-half ounces stick 
cinnamon for each quart of berries. While the fruit is hot, 
pour into glass jars and cover at once; it will be ready for 
use in three or four days. A delicious relish. 



"^-^^ ^. i. (7jct^ 




Spiced Green Qrapes. 

From Mrs. George A. Mumford, of Rhode Island, Alternate 

Lady Manager. 

Five pounds green grapes (wild are best); three pounds 
sugar; one pound raisins; one -half pint vinegar; one table- 
spoonful ground cloves; one tablespoonful ground allspice; 
one tablespoonful ground cinnamon. Stone the grapes and 
raisins; simmer one hour. 



<=^ -i^^^y^ ^ .^^^/^ 



Orange Jelly. 

From Mrs. Theresa J. Cochran, of Vermont, Alternate Lady 

Manager. 

Grate the yellow rinds of two oranges and two lemons 
and squeeze the juice into a porcelain lined preserving kettle, 
adding the juice of two more oranges and removing all the 
seeds; put in the grated rind a quarter of a pound of sugar, 
or more if the fruit is sour, and a gill of water, and boil these 



1 16 JPA VORITB DISHES 



ingredients together until a rich syrup is formed; meantime 
dissolve two ounces of gelatine in a quart of warm water, 
stirring it over the fire until it is entirely dissolved; then add 
the syrup, strain the jelly, and cool it in molds wet in cold 
water, — White House Cook Book. 



Currant Jelly. 

From Mrs. M. P. H. Beeson, of Oklahoma, Lady Manager. 

One - half cup sugar to one cup currant juice. Boil for 
fifteen minutes. This will make a lovely jelly. 



Crab Apple Jelly. 

From Mrs. Gensvieve M. Guthrie, of Oklahoma, Lady Manager. 

Wash and quarter large Siberian crabs, but do not core; 
cover to the depth of an inch or two with cold water and 
cook to a mush; pour into a coarse cotton bag or strainer, 
and, when cool enough, press or squeeze hard to extract all 
of the juice. Take a piece of fine Swiss muslin or crinoline, 
wring out of water, spread over colander placed over a 
crock, and with a cup dip the juice slowly in, allowing 
plenty of time to run through; repeat this process twice, 
rinsing the muslin frequently. Allow the strained juice of 
four lemons to a peck of apples and three-quarters of a 



FOR THE TABLE. 11? 

pound of sugar to each pint of juice. Boil the juice from 
ten to twenty minutes; while boiling, sift in the sugar 
slowly, stirring constantly, and boil five minutes longer. 
This is generally sufficient, but it is always safer to " try it " 
and ascertain whether it will jelly. This will make a clear, 
sparkling jelly.— ^row Practical Housekeeping Cook Sook, 
The jelly is excellent. 




Pickled Onioiu. 

jm Mrs. Harriet A. Lucas, of Pennsylvania, Lady Manager 

Peel carefully, by scalding, small onions; drain; place 

salt and water, not too strong, for forty-eight hours; 

;n drain again till dry. Put together one-half pint of 
....Ik and one- half pint water; place the small onions in it 
and allow them to scald, not boil, or they will be softened. 
Remove, rinse in cold water and drain. Place in a jar and 
pour over them white wine vinegar, with a little mace and 
small red peppers; no dark spice. You will have a beauti- 
fully white, mild pickled onion il this is carried out. 



Oil Pickles. 

From Mrs. Ida M. Ball, of Delaware, Ladj' Manager. 

Two dozen large cucumbers, sliced without paring; 
sprinkle with salt; place in a colander to drain for two or 
three hours. One dozen onions prepared m the same way, 



FOR THE TABLE, 1 19 



separately. Put in a stone jar, in alternate layers, sprinkling 
between with ground black pepper and a mixture of mus- 
tard and oil, the mixture to be made in the proportion of a 
small box of mustard to one -half pint of salad oil. "When 
the jar is full, pour in enough cold vinegar to cover. 




^ ^, ^t^ 



Mixed Pickles. 

From Mrs. Sam. S. Fifield, of Wisconsin, Lady Manager. 

Take small cucumbers, onions, beans, cauliflower, broken 
up, and pour over boiling hot brine made of one teacup of 
coarse salt to a gallon of water, for three mornings. The 
fourth morning drain well. (I put into a flour sack and 
hang out doors until dry.) To one gallon of good cider 
vinegar put a teaspoon of pulverized alum, four of white 
mustard seed, two of celery seed, five or six tiny red pep- 
pers, a handful of cloves and as much of stick cinnamon; 
pour over the pickles when real hot; add a good quantity of 
horseradish root to keep pickles from moulding. 

— 

Cucumber Piclcles. 

From Mrs. Parthenia P. Rue, of California, Lady Manager. 

For two gallons of pickles, place the cucumbers in salt 
and water for three days; then rinse in fresh water. One 
teacupful of whole white mustard; one handful of whole 



I20 FAVORITE DISHES 



cloves; allspice and black pepper; a teacupful of broken 
cinnamon. Put all into a large thin bag and boil in one 
quart vinegar. Put two or three red pepper pods and a few 
sprigs of horseradish root among the cucumbers, in a keg 
or jar. Take sufficient vinegar to cover them and \>vX into 
it one pound of brown sugar; let it scald and cool a little; 
then pour over the pickles; then the spices and vinegar, 
allowing the spices to remam on top. The spices and 
vinegar must be poured off and scalded for five mornings, 
and, when cool, poured over the pickles; the last day pour 
over a cup of molasses. Use good cider vinegar. If desired 
sweeter, sugar to vinegar when heatmg. Cucumbers used 
late in the season make better pickles than the earlier ones. 
Put cucumbers in salt water when freshly picked. 



Qreen Cucumber Pickle. 

From, Mrs. Cora Payne Jackson, of Kentucky, Lady Manager. 

One gallon of cider vinegar; one pound of brown 
sugar; one tablespoon of allspice; one tablespoon of cloves; 
one tablespoon of black pepper; one tablespoon of mace; 
two tablespoons of root ginger; two tablespoons of celery; 
two tablespoons of white mustard; one handful of horse- 
radish. After it begins to boil add cold cucumbers, well 
soaked, and boil until tender enough to pierce with a fork. 



FOR THE TABLE, 121 



Ripe Cucumber Pickle. 



From Miss Mary Elliott McCandless, of Pennsylvania, Lady 

Manager. 

Slice twenty -five large encumbers in pieces between 
one and two inches thick; lay in salt water two days; wash 
out the salt. Boil in alum water half an hour, alum size of 
a walnut (English); take out and boil in ginger water an 
hour; one ounce of ginger and water to cover. Make a 
syrup of ?i\^ pounds of light brown sugar, three quarts of 
vinegar, one pint of water, two ounces of whole cloves, two 
ounces of stick cinnamon, half an ounce of whole allspice, 
half an ounce of mace (put spices in bags). Let all boil 
until a rich syrup, then put in the cucumbers and boil be- 
tween one and two hours. 




Gooseberry Catsup. 

From Mrs. Amey M. Starkweather, of Rhode- Island, Super- 
intendent State Work and Lady Manager. 

Nine pounds of gooseberries; add five pounds of sugar, 
one quart of vinegar, three tablespoonfuls of cinnamon, one 
and one -half each of allspice and cloves. The gooseberries 
should be nearly or quite ripe. Take off the blossoms, wash, 
and put them into a porcelain kettle, scald, then put through 
a colander, add the sugar and spices; boil fifteen minutes; 
then add the vinegar; bottle immediately before it cools. 
Almost any recipe for spiced gooseberries makes a good 
recipe when the gooseberries are put through a colander or 
coarse sieve, and the vinegar added, cooled in this way. 

If you wish a smaller recipe, use the following: To 



122 FAVORITE DISHES 



four quarts of fruit, take three pounds of sugar, one pint of 
vinegar, one tablespoonful each of ground cloves, allspice 
and cinnamon. Make as in the above recipe. 




//L'rj^2i^y^i^ 



n^^:z3^^ 



Cabbas:e Pickle. 

From Mrs. Carrington Mason, of Tennessee, Alternate I-ady 

Manager. 

Quarter small, hard heads of cabbage, removing the 
outer leaves; put in a brine for three days, then let it soak 
in fresh water six hours. Wipe perfectly dry, squeezing 
the vvrater out. Scald the cabbage in weak vinegar and 
water, to which add turmeric in a thin muslin bag. Then 
put into a stone jar alternate layers of cabbage and sea- 
soning as follows:' Mace, ginger, cinnamon, white mus- 
tard seeds, onions, red pepper, and horse radish. Bring to 
a boil enough good cider vinegar to cover the whole, and 
pour into the jar hot. 



w^^^t^ ^ XpA- 




PIcalilly. 



From Mrs. Ella Ray Miller, of Idaho, Alternate Lady 

Manager. 

One peck green tomatoes; twelve large onions; one 
ounce each of allspice, cloves, cinnamon, whole pepper and 



FOR THE TABLE, 1 23 



white mustard seed; two ounces flour of mustard, one and 
one - half pound sugar. Slice and salt tomatoes, drain over 
night. Put spices in bags, cover all with vinegar, and 
boil till tender. Seal in glass jars. 



Sweet Pickled Peaches. 

From Mrs. Nellie B. Plumer, of Pennsylvania, Alternate Lady 

Manager. 

Ten pounds peaches — pared; ?iSQ pounds sugar; one 
quart best cider vinegar; one tablespoonful allspice; one 
tablespoonful mace; one tablespoonful cinnamon; one tea- 
spoonful cloves. Put the spices in thin muslin bags. 
Boil all together half hour; then put in the peaches, and 
boil twenty minutes. Take out the fruit with a skimmer, 
and spread upon dishes to cool. Boil the syrup until 
thick, pack the peaches in glass jars, and pour syrup over 
them scalding hot. 



McM^ 




Chow-chow Pickles. 

From Mrs. H. K. Ingram, of Florida, Alternate Lady Manager. 

One -half peck green tomatoes; one dozen peppers; 
two heads cabbage (medium size); one -half peck onions; 
one - fourth peck cucumbers. Chop fine (or, better still, run 
through a sausage grinder), and mix thoroughly with three 
handfuls of salt. Pour all into a thin bag to drain for 



124 FAVORITE DISHES 



twelve hours, or over night. At the end of this time put 
sufficient vinegar to cover into a large iron, tin or porce - 
lain vessel, and add two ounces black pepper grains, two 
ounces allspice grains, two ounces celery seed, one -fourth 
pound mustard, one pound sugar. Scald the vinegar and 
pour contents of bag into it; add the spices, mix well, and 
let all come to a boil, and remove instantly. This will be 
found equal to the best imported bottled chow - chow. 



^ /^. C^4^U^i^^^ 



Mustard Chow-Chow. 

From Mrs. Alice B. Castleman, of Kentucky, Alternate Lady 

Manager. 

Two dozen cucumbers, cut in chunks about an inch 
thick; two heads of cabbage, chopped fine. Sprmkle with 
salt and let stand all night. One dozen large green pep- 
pers, chopped up; five dozen small seed onions. Soak the 
onions and peppers separately in salt water all night; next 
morning squeeze all the salt water from them. Then place 
in a kettle a layer of pickle and a layer of seasoning comr 
posed of two ounces of white mustard seed; two ounces 
celery seed; one ounce turmeric; one -half pound box of 
Coleman's mustard, mixed smooth with vinegar, adding 
two and one -half pounds brown sugar. After putting all 
in the kettle, cover with vinegar and boil thirty minutes. 
This recipe makes two gallons of pickles, and one and 
one half gallons of vinegar covers it. Use best cider 
vinegar. 




FOR THE TABLE. 



From Miss Marv Elliott McCandlbss, of Pennsjlvanla, Lady 
Manager. 

One peck green tomatoes; two large heads of cabbage; 
two good sized onions; three small red peppers; one-fourth 
pound yellow mustard seed; one -fourth pound ground mus- 
tard; one and one- half ounces celery seed; one tablespoon- 
ful. cayenne pepper, three quarts best vinegar; one quart 
granulated sugar. Slice tomatoes, salt them, then chop very 
fine, and drain all green water off; put the chopped tomatoes 
on in a preserving kettle, with some good vinegar, bring 
them to the scald, then pour in colander to drain and cool. 
Chop cabbage, onions and peppers fine, and -when the toma- 
toes are cold, mix all together. Bring to boil vinegar, 
sugar, mustard seed, celery seed, red pepper and more salt. 
Mix ground mustard with chopped tomatoes, cabbage, etc. 
When the vinegar, sugar, etc., is cold, pour on the chopped 
mixture; stir thoroughly and put in wide-mouthed bottles. 




Cheese Fonda. 

From Miss Hattie T. Hundley, of Alabama, Lady Manager. 

One cup of bread crumbs, very dry and fine; two scant 
cups of milk ; one - half pound of old cheese, grated ; three 
eggs, whipped very Hght, and one tablespoonful of butter. 
Season with pepper and salt and a pinch of soda dissolved in 
hot water and stirred into the milk. Soak the crumbs in the 
milk, beat with these the eggs, butter, seasoning, and lastly 
the cheese; put into a buttered baking dish, put dry bread 
crumbs on top and bake in a rather quick oven until a 
delicate brown. Serve immediately. — Mrs, Henderson's 
Cook Book. 



f&aect ^ ^._,.^^<^. 



Cheese Sticks. 

From Mrs. Margaret M. Ratcliffe, of Arkansas, Alternate 

Lady Manager. 

Six tablespoons of grated chfeese; two tablespoons of 
melted butter; enough flour to make a soft dough. Roll 
thin, cut in strips and bake in floured pan in quick oven. 




126 



Lemon Pie. 

From Mrs. L. M. N. Stevens, of Maine, Lad^ Manager, 

One cup sugar; juice of one lemon; one egg and yolks 
of two eggs; one dessertspoonful rolled cracker, scalded in 
two-thirds cup milk. Bake in a deep plate. After baking 
frost with the whites of two eggs beaten stiff, adding two 
spoonfuls of sugar. Brown the frosting a little. 



A tl^' 



t<4=? 



Ideal Lemon Pie. 

From Mks. Ida L. Turner, of Texas, Ladj Manager. 

Make the crust, line pie tin and hake. White it is 
baking prepare the following filling: Grate one lemon (do 
not roll it); after the yellow rind is all grated, squeeze in the 
juice and if any little cells go in, do not say them nay ; then 



128 FAVORITE DISHES 



put in a cupful of sugar and the yolks of two eggs; stir well 
together; upon this pour a large cupful of cold water, into 
which has been stirred a dessertspoonful of corn starch; put 
all into a sauce pan and stir until it is cooked into a rich, 
clear, straw-colored jelly. Then fill the crust and from 
the whites of the eggs make a meringue to cover each. Put 
into the oven for one brief instant. 






C'U^i'U.^^ 



Lemon Pie. 



From Mrs. Virginia C. Meredith, of Indiana, Lady Manager 
and Vice - Chairman of Executive Committee. 

Two cups of sugar; one cup of boiling water; four 
eggs; two lemons; one and one -half tablespoon flour. Stir 
the sugar and flour well together; add the juice and grated 
rind of the lemons; to this add the well beaten yolks; after 
stirring well, add the boiling water; put over a clear fire and 
stir constantly until it boils, then pour into the shells. Spread 
over the top a meringue made of the whites of the four eggs 
and one tablespoon of sugar; place in the oven and brown 
slightly. This is sufficient for two pies. The shells should 
be made of ordinary pie pastry and baked before being filled 
with the mixture. 




>iTmAO€J^ 



FOR THE TABLE, 129 



Lemon Pie. 



From Miss Lucia B. Perea, of New Mexico, Alternate Lady 

Manager. 

One and one -half cups of sugar; one cup of water; 
two tablespoonfuls flour or corn starch; one tablesj>oon- 
ful butter; yolks of three eggs; two lemons, grated; add 
juice, beat well all togethei*, then boil until thick. Beat 
up one cup of pulverized sugar with the whiter of three 
eggs. Pour over the pie when done, and brown. 





di>t^^ 



Pumpkin Pie. 



From Mrs. Frances C. Holley, of North Dakota, Alternate 

Lady Manager. 

Pare pumpkin, cut into inch pieces; steam till well 
done, or stew until soft and dry ; then sift through a wire 
sieve or colander. Add one well beaten Qgg for each 
pie, also one tablespoonful of cream, if you have it, for 
each, together with sufficient milk to give the required 
thickness when cooked. Sugar and salt to your taste, 
flavor with nutmeg, adding also a little ginger. Use 
deep custard plates; bake, rather slowly at first, until well 
thickened and nicely brown on top. 





130 FAVORITE DISHES 




Apple Custard Pie. 

From Mrs. Annie L. Y. Orff, of Missouri, Alternate Lady 

Manager. 

One cup milk; yolks of two eggs; four grated 
apples; small spoon of melted butter; one -half cup sugar; 
nutmeg to flavor; pinch of salt. Bake in one crust. 
Make a frosting with whites of eggs and two spoons of 
sugar. Brown delicately. 

{/am /^. 

Cream Pie. 

From Mrs. M. R. Lee, of Mississippi, Lady Manager. 

Put one - half pint milk and one - half cupful sugar 
in a frying pan and let it come to a boil; then dissolve 
one tablespoonful corn starch in a little milk reserved 
from the half pint. Add to it the beaten yolk of one 
^&&> stir into the boiling milk, and when thickened and 
smooth, remove and add a little salt and lemon flavoring. 
Pour into a flaky crust that has been just baked, and 
frost with the white of one ^^^ and one tablespoonful 
sugar; place in hot stove till a delicate brown. 

Cream Pie 

From Mrs. Louise Campbell, of New Mexico, Alternate 

Lady Manager. 

Bake an undercrust. Boil one pint of sweet milk; 
when boiling, stir jn one -quarter cup of corn starch, 



FOR THE TABLE, 131 



one -half a cup of sugar, and the yolks of two eggs, 
which must be well beaten together. Cook thoroughly, 
flavor with vanilla, and add a little salt. Pour this mix- 
ture into the baked crust. Beat the whites of the two 
eggs, and to them add half a cup of sugar, and use as 
meringue. 





Apple Pie. 



From Mrs. Alice Vineyard Brown, of North Dakota, Alternate 

Ladj' Manager. 

Sift into a chopping bowl three small cups of flour; 
then with the knife chop in thoroughly one cup of lard, one- 
half cup of butter, that have been on ice for an hour; mix 
with four to six tablespoons of ice water, as may be needed 
to handle, roll thin and line a shell, into which slice thinly 
any tart apples that will cook rather quickly. Dredge with 
the grated rind of a lemon — a somewhat dry lemon is pref- 
erable — which has been mixed thoroughly with one table- 
spoon of sugar and one small teaspoon of corn starch. Now 
break an ^^^^ into a bowl, beat well and add four table- 
spoons of sugar and one cup of rich milk; pour this over the 
apples; with the jag iron cut the remainder of the paste into 
narrow strips and lay across to form squares. Bake in a 
moderate oven until the custard " sets." Place on ice in 
summer; eat slightly warm in winter. 



c4Ci 



tt 





132 FAVORITE DISHES 



Pie Crust. 

From Mrs. Annie L. Y. Orff, of Missouri, Alternate Lady 

Manager. 

One cup lard; one -half cup cold water; a pinch of salt, 
and flour enough to roll. This will make exactly two pies. 



(Mui. t^^ 




Mince Meat. 



From Mrs. Marcia Louise Gould, of Illinois, President State 

Board and Lady Manager. 

Two pounds of lean fresh beef boiled; when cold 
chop fine; one pound of beef suet cleared of strings and 
minced to a powder; five pounds of apples, pared and 
chopped; two pounds of raisins, seeded and chopped; one 
pound of Sultana raisins, washed and picked over; two 
pounds of currants, washed and carefully picked over ; three- 
quarters of a pound of citron, chopped fine; two table- 
spoonfuls of cinnamon, one of nutmeg (powdered), two of 
mace, one of cloves, one of allspice, one of fine salt; two and 
a quarter pounds of brown sugar; one quart brown sherry, 
and one pint best brandy or three pints of grape juice. 




FOR THE TABLE. 133 

Mince Meat. 

From Mrs. Laura P. Coleman, of Colorado, Lady Manager. 

Two pounds of beef; half pound suet; half pound 
butter; five pounds apples; two pounds raisins; two pounds 
seedless raisins; half pound citron; three tablespoon fu Is cin- 
namon, two of mace, two of allspice; one nutmeg; three 
pounds brown sugar; half gallon sweet cider. Boil beef 
until tender, then chop fine; also chop suet, apples and 
citron. Then mix all the ingredients thoroughly and boil 
until the apples are cooked. After removing from the stove 
add one -half teacupful of brandy if desired. 




Qraham Christmas Pudding. 

From Mrs. Rollin A. Edgerton, of Arkansas, Secretary of State 

Board and Lady Manager. 

The Christmas pudding which I add was served up this Christmas 
on my table and pronounced delicious. Dyspeptics need not fear this 
" Plum Pudding^"* and it is rich enough to please the most fastidious. 

Wishing your philanthropic efforts every success, I am. 

Very truly yours. 




Beat two eggs; take one -half cup of sweet milk; one- 
half cup of molasses, in which dissolve one -half teaspoon of 
soda; a lump of butter the size of an ^%%\ one cup of 
Graham flour (don't sift); two cups of flour, in which a cup 
of stoned raisins are well rubbed; one small teaspoon of salt; 
spice with cinnamon, cloves and nutmeg, one teaspoonful all 
together. Then steam two hours and serve with a hard 
sauce of butter and fine sugar creamed together, with one 
well beaten ^^^ and grated nutmeg as a finish. Wholesome, 
delicious, and extremely simple to prepare. 

134 



FOR THE TABLE. 135 



Qrahani Pudding. 



From Mrs. George A. Mumford, of Rhode Island, Alternate 

Lady Manager.. 

One and one -half cups of Graham flour; one cup of 
milk; one -half cup of molasses; one cup of raisins, seeded 
and chopped; one teaspoonful soda; one -half teaspoonful 
salt. Sift the Graham flour to make it light, but return the 
bran. Dissolve the soda in one tablespoonful of the milk 
and add the remainder of the milk, molasses and salt. Then 
pour all the mixture on the Graham flour, beating it thor- 
oughly with a spoon; then stir in the fruit (and spice if. you 
wish). Pour the pudding into a well greased mould and 
steam four hours. Serve with a wine or any rich sauce. 



<=.^ -£^9^^.^^ 





Lady Ross Fig Pudding. 

From Mrs. Wm. P. Lynde, of Wisconsin, Lady Manager. 

Three-quarters pound grated bread; one -half pound 
best figs, minced fine; six ounces minced beef suet; six 
ounces sugar; one teacup sweet milk; a little nutmeg; one 
^%%* Mix the bread and suet together; then add figs, sugay 
and nutmeg; then the ^Z^^t well beaten; lastly the milk. 
Boil in a mould four hours. 

Wine Sauce — Two cups sugar; one -half cup butter. 
Stir to a cream; then add one glass of wine and some 
flavoring and a little nutmeg; then pour in a small cup 
boiling water and set on the stove in a pan or kettle of 
water and keep hot until served. 




136 FAVORITE DISHES 



Alexandre Pudding. 

From Mrs. M. D. Thatcher, of Colorado, Lady Manager. 

Set a jelly mould on ice; put a layer of maraschino 
jelly (or any wine jelly) in the bottom of the mould; when 
set, add a layer of pink jelly (made by adding a drop of 
prepai'ed cochineal); when set, put a lining in the centre of 
the mould ; if you have not the centre - form, use a small tin 
baking-powder box, placing it in the centre of the mould; 
then add alternate layers of the jellies until the mould is 
filled, and when well set and firm, gently withdraw the 
lining (or can), filling the hollow thus formed with a custard 
cream. When all is quite firm, turn out on a dish and serve 
with whipped cream around the pudding. 



Plum Pudding. 



From Mrs. Florence H. Kidder, of North Carolina, Lady 

Manager. 

One and one -half pounds of stoned raisins, torn in half; 
one pound of currants; one and one -half pounds of citron, 
cut fine; one and one -quarter pounds of butter; one pound 
of sugar ; eight eggs, well beaten ; one pound of stale bread 
crumbs; one and one -half pints of sweet milk, boiled and 
poured on bread crumbs; two grated nutmegs; two table- 
spoons of cinnamon; one tablespoon of mace, one of cloves 
and two of allspice; eight tablespoons of sifted Hour, rubbed 
in with fruit; one -half pint of French brandy and one -half 
pint of Madeira or sherry. Have a bag two thicknesses of 
vvhite unbleached cloth; grease and flour the inside well; 



FOR THE TABLE, 1 37 



pour in mixture, tie tightly to exclude water, and leave room 
for pudding to swell. Put in a pot of boiling water, which 
must be kept boiling for five hours. Put plate in bottom of 
pot to prevent sticking. The bag must be turned repeatedly 
i»nd kept under water. 

Sauce for Plum Pudding — Butter and powdered 
«ugar, thoroughly stirred, and seasoned with wine and 
nutmeg. When pudding is ready to serve, pour alcohol 
over it and set on fire. 

This recipe makes a large pudding, but it can be packed 
away with brandy poured over it, and can be used by steam- 
ing over as long as it lasts. 




English Plum Pudding. 

From Mrs. Phcebe M. Hartpence, of Ohio, Chairman Committee 

on Woman's Work, Lady Manager. 

One cup molasses; one cup sour milk; one cup suet, 
chopped fine; one cup raisins; one -half cup currants; two 
and one -half cups flour; one teaspoonful soda. Mix well, 
salt and spice to taste, and steam two hours. 

Dressing — Mix one heaping tablespoonful flour and 
two of sugar; add to these grated nutmeg. Stir and add 
one -half pint of boiling water; add to this a small table- 
spoonful of butter, a little lemon and vanilla, one teaspoonful 
vinegar. Let it come to a boil, and if too thick, add more 
water. 



138 FAVORITE DISHES 

Ensiish Piuni Pudding:. 

From Mrs. S, W. McLaughlin, of North Dakota, Lady Manager. 

A pound of suet, chopped fine; a pint of sugar; one 
pound of grated stale bread; one pound of raisins, two of 
currants; a glass of unfermented wine or jelly; two tea- 
spoonfuls of ginger, one of soda; two nutmegs; half a pint 
of milk ; a little salt. Beat well and steam five hours. Serve 
with rich sauce. 




Vegetable Plum Pudding. ' 

From Miss Mary E. Busselle, of New Jersey, Lady Manager. 

One -half pound flour; one -half pound chopped suet; 
one- half pound currants; one -half pound prunes; one- 
quarter pound grated raw carrots; three-quarters pound 
grated raw potatoes; one -half pound brown sugar; one 
large teaspoonful of baking powder; pinch of salt. Flavor 
with a teaspoonful each of nutmeg, cinnamon and cloves. 
The moisture from the raw vegetables makes sufficient 
wetting. ^ ^_^ 

Plum Pudding. 

From Mrs. Helen C. Brayton, of South Carolina, Vice-President 

of State Board and Lady Manager. 

One pound seedless raisins; one pound dried currants; 
one pound stale bread crumbs; one -half pound finely 




MRS. CLARA L. McADOW. 



FOR THE TABLE. 139 



chopped beef suet; one -fourth pound shredded citron; 
eight eggs; one quart milk; one -half cup sugar; mace or 
nutmeg; one gill of brandy; one teaspoon salt; eggs well 
beaten and put in last; raisins floured before stirring in. 
Boil gently ?iy^ hours without stopping. Water must be 
boiling when pudding is put in and kept boiling till done. 
Eat with liquid wine sauce. Pour alcohol around pudding 
and set it on fire. A sprig of holly in centre for Christmas. 



•^^'W Ma^^^ 



Christmas Plum Pudding. 

From Mrs. Alice J. Whalen, of Utah, Lady Manager. 

One pint and a half of grated bread crumbs (soft, not 
dried), one pint of chopped suet, one pint of currants, one 
pint and a half of stoned raisins, half a cup of citron shaved 
thin, one scant cup of sugar, half a teaspoonful of salt, half 
a teaspoonful of grated nutmeg, one teaspoonful of mace, five 
eggs, yolks and whites beaten separately, two even teaspoon- 
fuls of flour made into a thin batter with milk, and half a 
glass of brandy; mix in the order given and steam four 
hours. 

Sauce for Pudding — Cream one- fourth pound butter, 
add one - fourth pound of brown sugar and stir over hot 
water until liquid, then add the yolks of two eggs, well 
beaten; stir until it thickens. Just before serving add a cup 
of brandy and hot water equal parts. 




HO FAVORITE DISHES 



Cherry Pudding. 



From Mrs. Louise L. Barton, of Idaho, Alternate Lady 

Manager. 

One pint of flour, one heaping teaspoonful of baking 
powder, lump of butter the size of a hickory nut, one pinch 
of salt, wet up with milk to a thick batter as stiff as for 
gems; add one pint of cherries with the juice strained off; 
stir the cherries into the batter; steam in stem cake dish; 
butter cake dish, and *steam three - quarters of an hour. 
When done turn out on plate. 

Sauce for same — One cup of cherry juice, one cup of 
sugar, one cup of water, small lump of butter, one table- 
spoonful of thickening; when it boils up add two tablespoons 
of cherry wine and nutmeg to taste. This pudding is 
enough for twelve persons. 





a^r- 




Bread and Butter Pudding:. 

From Mrs. Nancy Huston Banks, of Kentucky, Alternate Lady 

Manager - at- Large. 

Butter thin slices of bread and place them in dish; then 
a layer of fruit, such as berries (or preserves will do) ; then 
another layer of bread and butter, and so on until the dish is 
full. Then pour beaten eggs in a quart of milk, say three 
eggs to the quart, over the ingredients and bake half an 
hour. 



A 





FOR THE TABLE. 141 



Delicate Indian Pudding. 

From Mrs. S. W. McLaughlin, of North Dakota, Lady 

Manager. 

One quart of milk, two heaping tablespoon fuls of Indian 
meal, four of sugar, one of butter, three eggs, one teaspoon- 
ful of salt; boil the milk in the double boiler ; sprinkle the 
meal into it, stirring all the while; cook twelve minutes, 
stirring often. Beat together the eggs, salt, sugar and half a 
teaspoonf ul of ginger ; stir the butter into the meal and milk ; 
pour this gradually on the ^%% mixture. Bake slowly one 
hour. 




Baked Indian Pudding. 

From Mrs. Mariam D. Cooper, of Montana, Alternate Lady 

Manager. 

Three large tablespoons corn meal. Scald one quart 
sweet milk; stir meal in while hot; small lump butter, one 
cup .molasses, salt; add one pint cold milk after putting in 
pan; bake five hours; eat with a little butter. 



Prune Roll. 

From Mrs. Clark Waring, of South Carolina, Alternate Lady 

Manager. 

Soak two pounds of prunes in cold water over night; 
drain through a colander and seed them. Make your puff 



142 FAVORITE DISHES 



paste; roll it out; place your prunes on the paste, sprinkling 
with a little sugar on top; then roll smoothly. Bake in a 
steady heat and serve hot with hard butter sauce, or very rich 
wine sauce. 



Mn4ui %J 



^ 



Prune Pudding. 



From Mrs. Hattib E. Sladdbn, of Oregon, Alternate Lady 

Manager. 

Thoroughly wash one pound of prunes; soak over 
night, stewing in same water until very soft; sweeten to the 
taste while cooking. Next mash the fruit, removing the 
stones, and add half a box of gelatine (previously dissolved 
in a little water) and whites of four eggs well beaten. Serve 
cold with cream. 



Prune Pudding. 



From Mrs. Mary S. McNeal, of Oklahoma, Alternate Lady 

Manager. 

To a large cup of stewed prunes (chopped fine) add a 
large tablespoon of sugar and a pinch of cream of tartar; 
then the well beaten whites of seven eggs. Bake about 
twenty minutes in a shallow pan or dish with a greased 
paper in bottom so pudding can be turned out without break- 
ing. Serve cold with whipped cream. 




FOR THE TABLE. 1 43 



Prune Pudding. 

From Mrs. John R. Wilson, of South Dakota, Lady Manager. 

One cup of prunes, one cup of raisins, one cup suet, one 
cup molasses, one cup bread crumbs, one - half cup milk, one 
and one - half cup flour, one teaspoon soda, one teaspoon each 
of cloves and cinnamon, one -half nutmeg. Steam three 
hours. 




^/y 




J^Zj:// (71 /^ZZ^^/^ 



Bread Pudding. 



From Mrs. Kate Canthon McDaniel, of Texas, Alternate Lady 

Manager. 

Place in a buttered tin alternate layers of buttered bread 
and raisins or chopped apples. Take the yolks of four eggs 
and two cups of sugar, beat until light; add a pint of sweet 
milk; flavor to suit taste; pour over the bread and bake in a 
moderate oven. When done, beat the whites to a stiff froth, 
add a little sugar, flavor, heap on the pudding and return to 
the oven until a light brown. 



Chocolate Pudding. 

From Miss Mary B. Hancock, of Iowa, Treasurer State Board 

and Alternate Lady Manager. 

One quart milk, heated in double kettle; six tablespoons 
of grated chocolate; four yolks of eggs, beaten well and 
mixed with eight tablespoons of sugar; two tablespoons, or 
a little more, of cornstarch, dissolved in a little cold milk. 



144 



FAVORITE DISHES 



Let these ingredients just come to a boil and flavor with 
vanilla, place in pudding dish and cover on top with the stiff 
froth of four whites of eggs, sweetened with three large 
teaspoons of sugar, into which stick twenty - four separated 
blanched almonds. To be eaten with sweetened cream 
flavored with a little vanilla. 

Danish Pudding. 

Ten eggs; one quart of cream; eight tablespoonfuls of 
sugar; one dessertspoon of. vanilla. Beat the eggs and 
sugar together, heat the cream and pour over it. 

Caramel — Two and one - half cups of brown sugar, 
cooked until very brown; then add one cup of cold water 
and pour into the pudding and bake. 




Delicious Pudding. 

From Mrs. Elizabeth C. Langworthy, of Nebraska, Lady 

Manager. 

To two cups of boiling milk add four tablespoons of 
flour and two of butter, beaten together. When thickened, 
add four tablespoons sugar and yolks of eight eggs. When 
quite cold add whites of eggs, well beaten, and bake in 
moderate oven twenty minutes. Serve hot with sauce made 
of one -half cup of butter, beaten to a cream, one cup of 
sugar, added gradually; white of ^^%^ beaten stiff. Add 
lemon or vanilla to taste. 



MRS. HELEN M. BARKEK. 



FOR THE TABLE. 1 45 



Suet Pudding. 

From Mrs. Helen M. Barker, of South Dakota, Lady Manager. 

One cup chopped suet; one cup molasses (New Or- 
leans); one cup chopped raisins; one cup sweet milk; three 
cups sifted flour; one teaspoon soda dissolved in milk; spices 
to taste. Steam three hours. 

Serve with sauce made as follows: One cup of sugar; 
one -half cup of butter; one Qgg — cream well. Cook by 
pouring boiling water and stirring constantly. 




cJC/SztA 



Suet Pudding. 

From Mrs. Leander Stone, of Chicago, Lady Manager, 

The following recipe for Suet Pudding has been unfailing in my 
family for forty years past. Sincerely yours^ 



/^:^<*^^«'^^ 



One cup molasses; one cup suet, chopped fine; one cup 
sweet milk; one cup fruit; one teaspoon salt; a piece of 
soda size of a pea; flour to make it as stiff as pound cake. 
Steam three hours. 



Queen Pudding. 

From Mrs. L. C. Gillespie, of Tennessee, Lady Manager. 

One quart of sweet milk; one pint of grated bread 
crumbs; one teacup of white sugar; four eggs, and butter 
the size of hen's Qgg, Beat yolks of eggs with the sugar 

lO 



146 FAVORITE DISHES 



until very light; cream butter and add to eggs and sugar; 
then stir in bread crumbs and after these ingredients are well 
mixed, pour in the milk, stirring all thoroughly. Bake in 
porcelain pan or granite iron, under a good fire with a^well 
heated oven. Twenty minutes is sufficient time to bake it. 
You do not want it baked until it is stiff and hard, but it 
must quake as you lift it from the oven. You now cover 
the top of the pudding, fir^t with a half glass of jelly cut in 
very thin slices, and over this you put the whites of the four 
eggs, beaten to a stiff froth, to which you add and beat in 
two tablespoon fu Is of sugar. Put the pudding again into 
the stove, this time in the top, where the whites of the eggs 
may brown quickly. Serve cold, with cream whipped and 
flavored with vanilla. This, properly baked, is a delicate, 
delicious pudding. 

steam Pudding:. 

From Mrs. John S. Briggs, of Nebraska, Lady Manager. 

One quart flour, one coffeecup chopped raisins or cur- 
rants, one teacup chopped suet, one teacup half filled with 
molasses, finish with brown sugar, one teaspoon soda, two 
teacupfuls sweet milk, a little salt, mix and steam three hours. 

Steam Pudding Sauce — Three - quarters of a cup of 
butter, one and a half cups of sugar, one ^^Z'> juice and 
grated rind of a lemon all well beaten together. Just before 
serving, pour on the beaten mixture one pint of boiling 
water. 




^' J^f^^c//Oui^ 



y^^^ 



FOR THE TABLE. 147 



Steam Pudding. 

From Mrs. Clara L. McAdow, of Montana, Lady Manager. 

Four cups flour, four spoons baking powder, one - half 
can cherries, little salt, stir a stiff batter ; steam one and a half 
hours. 





Baked Huckleberry Pudding. 

From Mrs. Nellie B. Plumer, of Pennsylvania, Alternate Lady 

Manager. 

Two cups light brown sugar, one cup butter and lard 
mixed, one cup sour milk, four eggs, one teaspoonful of soda, 
one quart huckleberries. Make the dough as thick as jelly 
cake ; bake three - quarters of an hour in a moderate oven. 
Use wine or butter sauce as preferred. 



M^ 




Minnie's Lemon Pudding. 

From Mrs. H. J. Peto, of Arizona, Alternate Lady Manager. 

Two lemons, two tablespoonfuls of cornstarch, one and 
one - half cup granulated sugar, three 'eggs. Grate rind of 
one lemon; squeeze juice and pulp of two lemons; beat yolks 
of the eggs with a portion of the sugar, then add balance of 
sugar and the grated rind and lemon juice; mix the corn- 
starch with a little water; add boiling water, stirring con- 



148 FAVORITE DISHES 



stantly until thick and clear; add the ingredients previously 
mixed and stir until thoroughly incorporated with the starch; 
pour into a pudding dish, cool a little, then set into the oven 
for a few minutes to brown; beat the whites of the eggs 
stiff; add a little powdered sugar and put over top of pud- 
ding; brown slightly. May be served warm, but is delicious 
if set on ice until thoroughly cold. 






Cup Pudding. 



From Mrs. Marie J. Gaston, of South Dakota, Alternate Lady 

Manager. 

One -half cup of sugar, one cup flour, one -half cup cold 
water, one ^^'g^ one tablespoonful of butter, two level tea- 
spoonfuls baking powder, a pinch of salt. Grease cups and 
put in the bottom of the cups a little fruit, such as dried cur- 
rants, cherries, etc., or a little preserves; pour in the batter, 
filling the cups a little more than half full; set them in a 
steamer and steam forty minutes. This will make five cups. 
Served with the following sauce: 

Pudding Sauce — Six tablespoonfuls pulverized sugar, 
two tablespoons of butter, one egg; beat altogether with an 
^%% beater; flavor with vanilla. When ready to serve, add 
one cup of boiling water. 



a^rt£^£2 C^^^^^^H 



FOR THE TABLE. 1 49 



Italian Roll. 



From Mrs. F. H. Daniell, of New Hampshire, Alternate Lady 

Manager. 

Mix together one - half pound fine flour and from four 
to five ounces of sifted sugar; put in a sauce pan and bring 
to the boiling point, one -half pint of new milk and one- 
quarter pound fresh butter; stir in gradually the flour and 
sugar; beat well four fresh eggs, add them with the grated 
rind of a lemon, stirring until the mixture is thick like 
dough. Put it on a pasteboard and when cold roll to the 
desired thickness, about one -quarter of an inch thick; lay 
any kind of jam over the paste, roll it into a bolster -like 
form and bake. Serve cold, whole, or in slices nearly an 
inch thick. Time twenty to twenty -five minutes to bake. 



Chaperone Pudding. 

From Mrs. Annie L. Y. Orff, of Missouri, Alternate Lady 

Manager. 

One pint nice, fine bread crumbs to one quart of milk; 
one cup sugar; yolks of four eggs beaten light; grated rind 
of one lemon ; butter size of an ^^^ ; bake until done, but not 
watery. Whip the whites of four eggs beaten stiff; beat in 
a teacup of sugar; then add the juice of one lemon; pour 
over pudding ; eat cold. 



Gam tl/^ 




150 FAVORITE DISHES 

Apple Pudding. 

From Mrs. Ida L. Turner, of Texas, Lady Manager. 

Pare and core ten good sized apples. Stew them to a 
pulp, with sugar enough to sweeten; thickly butter the sides 
and bottom of an earthen baking dish and press all around 
them crumbs from the inside of a loaf of bread, having them 
nearly an inch thick. Mix with the apples a tablespoonful 
of butter and one ^%%^ beaten; put the apples into the dish 
without disturbing the crumbs; over the surface ^ut a layer 
of crumbs, dotted with bits of butter, and bake the pudding 
until brown; turn a platter over the pudding dish, quickly 
turn both upside down so the pudding will slip out on plat- 
ter. Dust with powdered sugar and serve hot. 






^^yU^^^c^ ^ 



B^ed Apple Dumpling:. 



From Mrs. Schuyler Colfax, of Indiana, Alternate Lady 

Manager - at - Large. 

Pare and core tart apples; fill the centres with sugar, 
butter and a small pinch of cinnamon or a little grated 
nutmeg. Make a rich, light pie crust, roll, cut in squares, 
fold a square around each apple, put them into a buttered 
pan. Now cream together half a cup of butter arid a cup of 
sugar, and put over the whole, when they are ready for the 
oven, pour a little cold water into the pan, and bake slowly 
an hour and a half or two hours. 



FOR THE TABLE. 



From Mrs. Carrington Mason, o£ Tennessee, Alternate Lady 
Manager. 

Three teacupfuls of pulveiized sugar; one of butter; 
three tablespoonfuls of flour; one teacupful of boiling water. 
Beat butter, sugar and flour together thoroughly ; stir into 
the boiling water; let it boil up and flavor with vanJUa, and 
serve immediately. 




sponge Cake. 

From Mrs. Isabella Beecher Hooker, of Connecticut, Lady 

Manager. 

The recipe I send for Sponge Cake was one constantly in Use 
twenty 'five years ago, when this picture was taken, and so might well 
be used in connection with that recipe, which is the only one in which 
I feel a personal interest. 

It gives me pleasure to oblige you, and I am cordially yours for 
womankind, also for mankind. 

Ten eggs; one -half pound flour; one pound pulverized 
sugar; one lemon; small teaspoon salt. Beat yolks sepa- 
rately and very thoroughly ; add sugar, salt, lemon juice and 
grated peel, and beat again. Beat whites to stiffness and 
add to the yolks, beating well together. Then cut the flour 
in slowly with large knife and avoid Beating after this. 
Bake in two deep, long, narrow tins, in rather slow oven, 
but hot on the bottom. The secret of success is in cutting 
in the flour and the baking. But few people will believe 
this and cannot reach my standard. I have made this cake 
for forty years with uniform success. 

152 




MRS. ISABELLA BEECHEK HOOKER. 



FOR THE TABLE, 1 53 



Sponge Cake. 

From Mrs. Martha A. Griggs, of Washington, Alternate Lady 

Manager. 

Six eggs; two cups of sugar. Beat twenty minutes; 
stir in lightly two cups of flour and a little salt. Flavor to 
taste. 



/jj^*< 





Sponge Cake. 



From Mrs. Marie J. Gaston, of South Dakota, Alternate Lady 

Manager. 

Four eggs; two cups of sifted flour; two cups of gran- 
ulated sugar; one cup of boiling water; two level teaspoon- 
f uls of baking powder. Beat the eggs very light, yolks and 
whites together; add the sugar, then one cup of flour, little 
by little; put baking powder in the other cup of flour and 
add in the same way; then pour in the cup of boiling water, 
a little at a time, stirring constantly. Flavor with vanilla. 
Bake in dripping pan twenty -five minutes. 




^i^rt£^ 




North Dakota Spon^re Cake. 

From Mrs. Alice Vineyard Brown, of North Dakota, Alternate 

Lady Manager. 

One cup of sugar, one cup of flour, four eggs. Beat 
yolks of eggs to a light creamy mixture, pour over the sugar 



154 FAVORITE DISHES 



and beat two minutes; add whites beaten to a foam, and stir 
hard for two minutes; now add one cup of flour which has 
been sifted three times, and to which was added a pinch of 
salt; stir very lightly^ usually four whisks of the spoon is 
sufficient; now pour into a shallow pan; let stand one minute j 
raise the pan several inches from the table and let it drop 
suddenly, striking flat on the bottom; this will cause air 
bubbles to break and make the cake fine grained; put into a 
very moderate oven and in five minutes heat quickly; twelve 
to fifteen minutes will suffice. Have ready a lemon frosting,, 
and the result will be a most beautiful cake, fit to grace any 
occasion. 



<Mi 



tt 





Chaperone Sponge Cake. 

From Mrs. Annie L. Y. Orff, of Missouri, Alternate Lady 

Manager. 

Mix one and one -half cups pulverized sugar; one tea- 
cup flour; a little salt; one teaspoon baking powder; beat 
the whites of eleven eggs to a stiff froth; flavor with lemon 
or vanilla; mix all together and bake. Use yolks for custard 
or gold cake. 



dam t^^ 




FOl^ THE TABLE. 1 55 



New England Raised Loaf Cake. 

From Miss Frances S. Ives, of Connecticut, Lady Manager. 

One pound of sugar, two pounds of flour, three eggs, 
one - fourth pound citron, one pound of butter, one pint of 
milk, one pound of raisins, one good - sized wine glass rum 
or brandy, one - half nutmeg, one cup yeast, cream one - half 
butter and sugar; mix this with all the flour, yeast and milk; 
let this mixture stand in a warm place until quite light, then 
add the remaining half of butter and sugar creamed and the 
eggs beaten very light; then let the mixture stand in a warm 
place until again very light; then add rum, raisins, citron and 
nutmeg; then put into pans for baking, letting it remain out 
of oven until very light again. This makes three loaves. 
Bake about one hour. 



^ 



^^/^Ih^z^</ 




French Loaf Cake. 

From Mrs. Martha A. Griggs, of Washington, Alternate Lady 

Manager. 

Two and one - half cups sugar, one cup butter, one cup 
milk, four cups flour, three eggs, one wine glass sherry ; one 
wine glass brandy, one - half teaspoon soda, one pound 
raisins (stoned), one - half pound citron, one teaspoon cloves, 
two teaspoons cinnamon, one nutmeg; bake one hour. 



^^*< 





156 FAVORITE DISHES 



Qrandmother's Bread Cake. 

From Mrs. Mary C. Bell, of Florida, Lady Manager. 

Three cups sugar, one cup butter, three eggs, one bowl- 
ful stoned raisins, floured, one teaspoonful allspice, ground, 
one teaspoonful cloves, ground, one tablespoonful cinnamon, 
ground. When well mixed add three cups of bread sponge 
before the flour is added for kneadnig; stir well and then add 
flour until as stiff as can be easily stirred; half All two 
medium - sized pans and stand in a warm place till light and 
bake in a moderate oven. 



s^y^Z^i-^ 



4,.^^ 



Old Virginia Bread Cake. 

From Mrs. Kath brine S. G. Paul, of Virginia, Lady Manager. 

One and one -half pounds flour; one pound white sugar; 
ten ounces of butter; one -half teacup sweet milk; one -half 
teacup good yeast; four eggs; one cup of currant's and seed- 
less raisins, chopped and mixed together; one teaspoonful 
each mace and cinnamon and a little allspice; work butter and 
sugar together; sift flour into a bowl; stir in milk and yeast 
with one -half the creamed butter and sugar; beat hard and 
long until very light; set to rise in a moderately warm place 
over night. In the morning, if it be well risen, work in the 
remainder of the butter and sugar and the eggs; dredge the 
fruit with flour and beat in a little at a time with the spice ; 



FOR THE TABLE. 157 



beat for fully ?iv^ minutes; divide and put into two pans to 
rise. The second rising generally requires about three hours. 
When the dough is very light bake in a moderate oven. 
When carefully made this cake is very fine. 



Bread Cake. 

From Mrs. Clara L. McAdow, of Montana, Lady Manager. 

Three cups of very light dough, three cups sugar, one 
cup butter, three eggs, one nutmeg, one teaspoonful cinna- 
mon, raisins, a teaspoon of salaratus dissolved in a little hot 
w^ater. 

Com Starch Cake. 

One cup butter, two cups sugar, one teaspoon cream 
tartar, one - half teaspoon soda, two cups flour, one cup corn 
starch, four eggs, one cup milk. 



\ 





Exposition Orange Cake. 

From Mrs. S. E. Verdenal, of New York, Lady Manager- 
, at - Large. 

Two cups sugar, two cups of sifted flour, one - half cup 
of water, two teaspoonfuls yeast powder mixed with the 
flour, the yolks of five eggs and the whites of three beaten 



158 FAVORITE DISHES 

separately, the grating and juice of one orange; bake in 
layers like jelly cake. 

Filling — One cup sugar, grating and juice one orange, 
whites of two eggs beaten into a froth. 



^.S.cC. 




Orange Cake. 

From Mrs. Frances Welles Shepard, of Chicago, Lady 

Manager. 

/ send you with pleasure the enclosed recipe for Orange Cake, I 
have used it for twenty -five years and know it to be excellent. Wishing 
you all success in your kind efforts. 

Believe me. 

Tours very truly^ 



One coffeecup sugar, one -half coffeecup butter, two 
coffeecups flour, one - half coffeecup milk, yolks of four eggs, 
whites of two eggs, two teaspoons of baking powder; bake 
in four layer tins. For the filling, grate the yellow part of 
the rind of two oranges and mix it with the juice and one 
coffeecup of powdered sugar; spread this mixture betw^een 
the cakes; frost the cake, using the two remaining w^hites of 
eggs beaten thoroughly, adding two small cups of powdered 
sugar. 





FOR THE TABLE, 1 59 



Ang;el Pood. 

From Mrs. Mary C. Harrison, of Wyoming, Lady Manager. 

The whites of fifteen eggs ; one and one - half cups of 
powdered sugar; one cup of flour; one teaspoon of cream of 
tartar; sift sugar three times; mix cream of tartar with flour, 
sift seven times; beat eggs stiff, add sugar gradually, beating 
iill the time with ^%% beater; take out; stir the flour quickly 
with wooden spoon; do not grease or line the tin; bake 
slowly and steadily ; turn out on platter for frosting. 



/^^<</5^ 



T 



^4E'4>'l>«^».^VO 



Angiel Cake. 

From Mrs. Daniel Hall, of New Hampshire, Lady Manager. 

The whites of eleven eggs beaten to a stiff froth; add 
one and one - half cups of pulverized sugar and one teaspoon- 
ful of vanilla extract; take one even cup of flour and one tea- 
spoonful cream of tartar and sift with flour four times; beat 
lightly but thoroughly; bake fifty minutes in an ungreased 
pan; cut out when cold. 

Sunshine Cake. 

Yolks of eleven eggs, two cups of sugar, one cup of 
butter, one cup of milk, one teaspoonful cream tartar, one- 
half teaspoonful of soda, three cups of sifted flour, one tea- 
spoonful of vanilla. 



l6o FAVORITE DISHES 



Election Cake. 

(ONE HUNDRED YEARS OLD.) 



From Mrs. Helen C. Brayton, of South Carolina, Vice-President 

State Board and Ladjr Manager. 

• Four pounds flour; two pounds butter; two and one- 
half pounds sugar; two and one -half pounds raisins; one- 
half pound citron ; one - half ounce mace ; tumbler of brandy ; 
one pint yeast; one and one -half pint milk; eight eggs. 
Add to the yeast one pint of milk; then beat in smoothly 
three pints of flour. Take all the flour and half the sugar 
and butter (when beaten to a cream); add the milk and 
yeast and make a dough a little softer than bread. When 
raised very light, add remainder of ingredients and let it rise 
again. When very light put into pans. Bake in moderate 
oven one hour. 



^^^^1^ Moj^^ 



Connecticut Election Cake. 

From Mrs. Virginia T. Smith, of Connecticut, Alternate Lady 

Manager. 

Two pounds best pastry flour; one pound shortening 
(half butter and half lard) ; one pound and two ounces sugar ; 
whites of two eggs; one nutmeg; half a pound of raisins 
(loose Muscatels); quarter teaspoon of mace; one tablespoon 
of lemon juice; one tablespoon extract of orange; half tea- 
spoon salt; half a compressed yeast cake, and two ounces of 
citron. Work the shortening and sugar to a cream; then 
rub half of it into the flour; dissolve the yeast cake in a little 



r 



FOR THE TABLE. l6l 



warm water; mix the flour and yeast with sufl^cient milk 
(about one and a half pints that has been scalded and cooled) 
to make a batter about like graham bread; work with the 
hands for at least twenty minutes; make at night and set in 
a moderately warm room to rise; in the morning add the 
remainder of the shortening and sugar; work again with the 
hands, as when first made, for fifteen or twenty minutes, and 
set to rise again. Seed and cut the raisins, grate the nutmeg 
and sprinkle that and the mace over the raisins. When the 
cake is light, add first the lemon juice, then extract of orange 
and whites of eggs, well beaten; stir in fruit well floured: 
dip into three pans, buttered^ and lined with paper. Let it 
stand until it begins to rise — it will come up very quickly in 
the oven if it has been twice well raised. Have oven hot 
enough to check the rising after it has reached the top of the 
pans; after it begins to brown, check the fire and let it bake 
rather slowly the remainder of the time. Whole time, on6 
hour and a quarter. 



Almond Cream Cake. 

From Mrs. Flora Beall Ginty, of Wisconsin, Seventh Vice- 
President Board of Lady Managers. 

Two cupfuls of pulverized sugar; one -quarter cupful 
of butter; one cupful of sweet milk; three cupfuls of flour; 
two and a half teaspoonfuls of baking powder; whites of 
four eggs, beaten very light; one -half teaspoonful of vanilla. 
Bake in four layers. Whip one cupful of sweet cream to a 
froth, stirring gradually into it half a cupful of pulverized 
II 



\ 



l62 FAVORITE DISHES 



sugar, a few drops of vanilla, one pound of almonds, 
blanched and chopped fine. Spread thick between layers; 
frost top and sides. 



^//n^/ieM- ^^^ 



Velvet Cake. 

From Mrs. Sallie S. CoTTKN,of North Carolina, President State 

Board and Alternate Lady Manager. 

One pound sugar; one pound flour; one -half pound 
butter; four eggs; one teacup of cold water; one teaspoon- 
ful cream of tartar; one -half teaspoonful soda. Put yolks 
and whites of eggs in separate vessels; dissolve soda in the 
water, sift the cream tartar in the flour. Beat the sugar and 
butter to a white cream; add the flour and water, stirring 
well. Next add the whites and lastly the yolks, both well 
beaten. Flavor with lemon and beat all together for three 
minutes. Bake an hour. Excellent also for a layer cake, 
with any filling. 



Caramel Cake. 

From Mrs. James R. Doolittle, Jr., of Chicago, Lady Manager. 

One even cup butter; two even cups sugar; three even 
cups flour; whites of eight eggs; two even teaspoonfuls 
baking powder; one teaspoonful vanilla; one cup milk. 
Stir butter and sugar to a cream, add milk slowly, then flour 
in which the baking powder has been mixed, and lastly the 



FOR THE TABLE. 163 

well beaten whites of eggs and vanilla. Bake in three layers 
and to prevent sticking use white paf)er cut the size of the 
tin and well greased with lard. 

Caramel Filling — Two cups of brown sugar; one cup 
of cream or milk;, three tablespoonfuls butter; one teaspoon- 
fid vawiifti , Baft «^ik febe mixture will hold together in 
water; then spread between tftc- tejers and on the outside. 
If it curdles when boiling, strain through coarse sieve and 
put on the stove again. When done, put in vanilla. 

A Caramel Cake. 

From Mrs. Franc Lube Albright, of New Mexico, Lady 

Manager. 

To be baked in layers. Four eggs; three - fourths of a 
cup of butter; one -half cup of" milk; three and one -half 
cups of flour; two teaspoonfuls of baking powder; flavor to 
suit taste. 

Filling — Two cups of brown sugar; one cup of rich 
cream; size of a walnut of butter; boil one -half hour well 
stirred ; spread between the layers of the cake while hot. 

Chocolate Filling — Six tablespoonfuls of grated choc- 
olate; one and one -half cups of pulverized sugar; two 
tablespoonfuls of cream ; put the chocolate in the pan with 
the cream and one -half the sugar and let dissolve; add the 
remainder of the sugar to the whites of two eggs well 
beaten ; flavor with vanilla for four layers of cake. 




164 FAVORITE DISHES 



Roll Jelly Cake. 



From Mrs. Flora Beall Ginty, of Wisconsin, Seventh Vice- 
President Board of Lady Managers. 

Five eggs, two cupfuls of sugar, two of flour, one - half 
cupful of milk, two teaspoon fuls of cream of tartar, one of 
soda; bake in square tins, spread with jelly and roll while 
warm. Lemon jelly is very nice. This recipe makes four 
rolls. 



c%^^ /^-^ ^^^**^ 



Chocolate Cake. 

From Mrs. Ralph Trautmann, of New York City, First Vice- 

resident Board of Lady Managers. 

Have ready one - half pound sweet chocolate grated ; 
one - fourth pound chopped citron ; one - fourth pound 
almonds, blanched and chopped; five soda crackers, browned 
and rolled very fine; wineglass of brandy and the juice and 
grated rmd of two lemons; separate the yolks of eggs from 
the whites; beat yolks well, mix with other ingredients and 
lastly add the whites whipped to a stiff froth; bake two 
hours in a slow oven; cover with frosting and ornament with 
candied fruit. 




Qeorgle's Cake. 

From Mrs. Clark Waring, of South Carolina, Alternate Lady 

Manager. 

Three teaspoonfuls of soda; one cup butter; one cup 
molasses; two cups brown sugar; two cups sour milk^ four 



FOR THE TABLE. 1 65 

eggs; four and one -half cups flour; one tablespoonful mixed 
spices; two pounds dates, seeded and chopped fine; rub the 
butter and sugar to a cream, add the molasses, then the sour 
milk, break one ^%% in at a time and beat well; sift the soda 
in the flour and add, saving a little to dust the dates; add the 
spices and last of all add the dates; bake slowly like a fruit 
cake. 



J^S^CaJ'. ^fe*^ 



Chess Cake. 



From Mrs. Carrington Mason, of Tennessee, Alternate Lady 

Manager. 

Four eggs beaten separately and added to one cup of 
butter and one cup of sugar thoroughly creamed, flavor with 
nutmeg; line small patty pans with puff paste; place in the 
bottom a teaspoonful of jelly and pour over it a tablespoonful 
of the ^%%^ butter and sugar mixture; bake in a rather slow 
oven. This is a nice tart for lunch or picnics as it keeps well 
and never gets dry. 




Fruit Cake. 

From Mrs. A. K. Delaney, of Alaska, Lady Manager. 

One and one -half pound of flour; one and one -half 
pound of sugar; one and one - fourth pound of butter; two 
pounds of raisins; two pounds of currants; three - fourths 



l66 FAVORITE DISHES 



pound candied lemon, four nutmegs; one teaspoonful soda; 
one teaspoonful cinnamon; one teaspoonful cloves; one cup 
brandy or wine; bake slowly. 

English Fruit Calce. 

From Mrs. Phcebe M. Hartpence, of Ohio, Chairman Commis- 
sioners on Woman's Work, Lady Manager. 

Four cups brown sugar; two cups butter; twelve eggs; 
one lemon, grated ; two nutmegs, grated ; one - half table- 
spoonful' cloves; one tablespoonful cinnamon; one table- 
spoonful allspice; one - half pint cream; one cup pure brandy; 
eight cups flour, sifted; one- half cup molasses; two and one- 
half pounds raisins, seeded, whole; two and one -half 
pounds currants; six teaspoonfuls baking powder; one level 
teaspoonful soda. The success of this cake depends very 
largely upon having every ingredient prepared before com- 
mencing to use them. Begin by thoroughly mixing sugar 
and butter, then yolks of eggs well beaten; put the soda into 
the molasses and cream, add this to the above; next add 
spices and stir up thoroughly; now add the brandy (good 
whisky will do) ; take a portion of the flour and thoroughly 
flour the fruit with it; put the baking powder in the flour 
that remains and sift part of it into the mixture; now add the 
beaten whites of eggs and stir gently; stir in the fruit, bake 
from two to two and one - half hours in a moderate oven. 



FOR THE TABLE. 1 67 



Fruit Cake. 

From Mrs. M. P. H. Beeson, of Oklahoma, Lady Manager. 

Yolks of one dozen eggs, one pound dried currants, 
one pound seeded raisins, one pound butter, one- half pound 
citron, one pound brown sugar, one cup sorghum molasses, 
one pound blanched almonds, one - half pound Brazil nuts, 
one - half cup sour milk, two teaspoonf uls soda, six cups 
flour, with cinnamon, allspice and cloves. The flour should 
be browned in slow oven in order to make the cake look 
dark and rich. This recipe will make a very large cake, the 
same to be baked for three hours in slow oven. 



Fruit Calce. 

From Mrs Hester A. Hanback, of Kansas, Lady Manager. 

One pound butter, one pound brown sugar, one pound 
flour, twelve eggs, four pounds currants, four pounds raisins, 
one pound citron, two pounds figs, two pounds blanched 
almonds, two oranges, one tablespoonful cinnamon, one, 
tablespoonf ul allspice, one - half tablespoonful mace, one - half 
tablespoonful cloves, one nutmeg, one lemon peel (chopped 
fine), one gill wine, one gill brandy; chop orange peel and 
pulp (removing seeds), then work in all the sugar you can 
(this is extra sugar), slice the almonds thin, also citron, chop 
figs quite fine. Fruit should be weighed after seeding and 
currants washed. Beat whites and yolks of eggs separately 
and roll fruit in flour before putting together. This makes 
a ten quart pan full. One tablespoonful baking powder; 
five pounds raisins, four pounds seeded; four and one -fourth 



l68 FAVORITE DISHES 



pounds currants, four pounds washed; six pounds almonds, 
two pounds blanched. 



A*^ f^iiU^ ^ f^ 




Sally White Cake. 

From Mrs. Florence H. Kidder, of North Carolina, Lady 

Manager. 

The " Sally White Cake " is delicious, and if I am not mistaken^ has 
yet only a local fame, but it should have a national one, Wis)iing you 
every success in your undertaking, I am. 

Very sincerely yours^ 





One pound of butter, three pounds of citron, one and 
one -fourth pound of sugar, one pound of flour, fifteen eggs, 
two small cocoanuts grated, one and one - half pound of 
almonds, blanched and pounded (weigh after blanching), one 
nutmeg, one tablespoonful of mace, one wineglass of best 
brandy, one of Madeira or sherry, bake slowly as a fruit cake 
and frost. 



Delicate Cake. 



From Mrs. John A. Logan, of District of Columbia, Lady 

Manager. 

Four ounces butter, fourteen oimces 
sugar, whites of six eggs, twelve ounces 
of flour, two teaspoons of baking pow- 
der, one cup of milk. Rub the butter and sugar together 
until they form a cream, stir the baking powder through the 




MRS. JOHN A. LOGAN. 



FOR THE TABLE, 1 69 

flour, then add it, a cupful at a time, to the butter and sugar, 
then stir in the milk, putting in the whites of the eggs after 
being beaten to a froth, a large spoonful at a time. Bake 
in a brisk oven. 




cx^^ -tdl^^^Sfc-C-u-..,^^^ 



Delicate Cake. 



From Mrs. Harriet T. Upton, of Ohio, Alternate Lady 

Manager. 

Use the same size cup for all mgredients. Two cups 
(coffee) sugar, one - half cup butter, stir to a cream; whites 
of eight eggs beaten stiff, three - fourths cup sweet milk, two 
and one - half cups flour, two teaspoons baking powder 
stirred into flour; put whites of eggs in last and stir gently. 



dlGMoul- f AlL- 



White Calce. 

From Mrs. Governor John M. Stone, of Mississippi, Lady 

Manager. 

Whites of twelve eggs, five teacups flour, three teacups 
sugar, one teacup sweet milk, one full cup butter, two tea- 
spoonfuls yeast powder. 



170 FAVORITE DISHES 



-^ 



Walnut Cake. 



From Mrs. Frances C. Holley, of North Dakota, Alternate 

Lady Manager. 

Three cups of sugar; one cup of butter; four cups 
of flour ; one and one - half cup of sweet milk ; three cups 
of walnut or butternut meats; whites of eight eggs. Cream 
the butter and sugar; sift two teaspoons of cream tartar into 
the flour, into which stir the meats. Dissolve one teaspoon 
of soda in the milk. Salt and extract as you like, adding 
the thoroughly -whipped whites the last thing before putting 
into the oven. Half of this rule can be used. 





Nut Cake. 



From Miss Josephine Shakspeare, of Louisiana, Lady 

Manager. 

Four tablespoons of flour; four tablespoons of brown 
sugar; one tablespoon of butter; one egg; one teacup of 
chopped nuts; a pinch of salt and black pepper. Grease 
and heat a long biscuit pan, mix all ingredients well and 
spread thinly on heated pan. Bakes in a few moments. 
When done and while warm, run a knife through center of 
pan lengthwise, then crosswise in strips. Turn pan over, 
and when cool cakes should be quite crisp. Very old 
French recipe. 




FOR THE TABLE. 171 



Nut Cake. 

From Mrs. Minna G. Hooker, of Vermont, Alternate Lady 

Manager. - 

One -half cup butter; two cups sugar; one cup milk; 
three cups flour; four eggs; one pint nut meats; two tea- 
spoons baking powder. Cream butter and sugar. Add 
eggs well whipped, milk, flour with baking powder, and 
nut meats chopped fine. Bake in loaf. English walnuts 
best. 



Nut Cake. 

From Mrs. Alice Houghton, of Washington, Lady Manager. 

One and one -half cup sugar; one -half cup butter; 
whites of six eggs, beaten stiff; one -half cup milk; one and 
two -thirds cup flour; one -third cup corn starch; one tea- 
spoon baking powder; one and one -half pound English 
walnuts, chopped fine and floured. Bake slowly in mod- 
erate oven. 




Pecan Cake. 

From Mrs. Russell B. Harrison, of Montana, Vice - President- 

at - Large. 

One cup of butter; two and a half cups of flour; two 
cups of sugar; one- half cup of sweet milk; whites of eight 



172 FAVORITE DISHES 



cg&s; two teaspoonfuls baking powder. Beat togethei 
butter and sugar; add a little of the beaten ^%%\ then put 
in a cup of flour, Ihen some milk, then again flour and milk; 
put all the milk in with the second cup of flour; then add 
the rest of the ^%%> 

Icing to Jill and put over top of Pecan Cake — Whites 
of six eggs, beaten stiff with powdered sugar; one small can 
of grated pineapple and two cups of pecans, chopped fine. 
The nuts should soak awhile in the pineapple before mixing 
them into the ^gg and sugar. Put whole pecan kernels over 
the top of the cake while the icing is still soft. 




Cake Made with Cream. 

From Mrs. Sarah H. Bixby, of Maine, Alternate Lady Manager. 

Break two eggs in a cup and fill with cream, and one 
cup sugar, one teaspoonf ul cream tartar, one - half teaspoon- 
ful soda and one and one- half cup of flour, with a little salt. 

Cream Frosting. 

From Mrs. Mary Payton, of Oregon, Lady Manager. 

One cup of sweet thick cream, sweetened and flavored 
with vanilla. Cut a loaf of cake in two and spread the 



MRS. RUSSELL B. HARRISON. 



FOR THE TABLE. 173 



frosting between and on top. This tastes like Charlotte 
Russe. 



^^ j^ 





Almond Icing. 

From Mrs. Lana A. Bates, of Nebraska, Alternate Lady 

Manager. 

Whites of four eggs; one pound of sweet almonds; one 
pound powdered sugar; a little rose water. Blanch the 
almonds by pouring boiling water over them and stripping 
off the skins. When dry, pound them to a paste, a few at a 
time, in a mortar, moistening with rose water as you go on. 
When beaten fine and smooth, beat gradually into icing. 
Put on the cake very thick and when nearly dry cover with 
plain icing« >^ 



Soft Gingerbread. 

From Mrs. Ida M. Ball, of Delaware, Lady Manager. 

One teacup sweet milk, one teacup brown sugar, one 
teacup butter or mixed butter and lard, one teacup molasses, 
one tablespoonful ginger, one tablespoonful cinnamon, four 
cups flour, two eggs, one pound of raisins, well floured 
before being put in, two teaspoonfuls baking powder. 



174 FAVORITE DISHES 



Columbian Ginger Cake. 

From Mrs. S. E. Verdenal, of New York, Lady Manager- 

at - Large. 

One cup molasses, one cup sugar, one - half cup water, 
one - half cup lard, one teaspoonf ul soda, season with ginger 
or cinnamon, put flour in until stiff enough to roll out thin 
and cut into small cakes. 



^.S.(C. 




Gingerbread. 



From Mrs. Sam. S. Fifield, of Wisconsin, Alternate Lady 

Manager. 

One - half cup of molasses, one - half cup of sugar, one- 
half cup of butter, one - half cup of sour milk, one and one- 
half cup of flour, two small eggs, one -half teaspoon of 
soda, teaspoonf ul of cinnamon, ginger, and one - half teaspoon 
of cloves, a little nutmeg. 



h^^ <^2^^^ K:f CTC^-^^-e^^C. 



Soft Gingerbread. 

From Mrs. Mary R. Kinder, of Delaware, Lady Manager. 

One cupful of molasses, one of butter, one of sugar, one 
of sour cream, one tablespoonful of ginger, three eggs, one 
dessertspoonful of soda, ground spice according to taste, and 



FOR THE TABLE. 



'. quart of sifted flour. Mix the butter and sugar to a 
am, then add tlie other ingredients. 



Loaf ainger Cake. 

From Mrs. A. K. Delakgv, of Alaska, Lady Manager. 

Two eggs, one - half cup molasses, two- thirds cup 
sugar, half cup lard or butter, one - half cup milk, three cups 
flour, one tablespoon ginger, one teaspoonful cinnamon, one- 
half tahlespoonful soda dissolved in boiling water, stir in 
quickly and put in the oven at once. 



^^ y^Xi'^ 



^ 



COOK I e; 




Hermits or Fruit Cookies. 

From Mrs. Susan G. Cooke, of Tennessee, Secretary of the 

Board of Lady Managers. ^ 

/ take pleasure in sending you the enclosed recipes, I thought if 
anyone should send you a recipe for Cookies it ought to be myself, I 
anticipate spending many pleasant hours in the hereafter trying the 
recipes of our well known Lady Managers, With best wishes^ believe 
me always^ Most cordially yours. 




Three eggs, one and one -half cup sugar, one cup 
butter, one large cup of raisins stoned and chopped, one tea- 
spoon soda; one teaspoon cloves, one teaspoon allspice, one 
teaspoon cinnamon, flour enough to roll. 



Cookies. 



From Miss Lily Irene Jackson, of West Virginia, Lady 

Manager. 

Three eggs, two cups of sugar, one cup of butter, one 
cup of sweet milk, two teaspoons baking powder mix soft^ 
roll thin, bake in a quick oven. 




MRS. SUSAN G COOKE 



FOR THE TABLE, 1 77 



••Corinita" Cookies. 



From Miss Lucia B. Perea, of New Mexico, Alternate Lady 

Manager. 

One cup sugar, one - fourth cup butter, three eggs well 
beaten together, one cup milk, two teaspoonfuls baking 
powder well sifted in two cups flour. 





(^yUi- 



Cookies. 

From Mrs. Robt. B. Mitchell, of Kansas, Lady Manager. 

Beat to a cream one cup of butter, two and one -half 
cups of sugar and the yolks of two eggs. Add a cup of 
sour cream, into which has been dissolved a small teaspoon- 
ful of soda; beat the whites of four eggs to a stiff froth; 
add to the butter and sugar; flavor to taste; use as little 
flour as possible to make of consistency to roll thin; 
sprinkle with sugar; flour the cutter to keep dough from 
sticking; bake in quick oven. 




^o^-^, ^u^ctlJic^^ 



Ginger Cookies. 

From Mrs. Clara L. McAdow, of Montana, Lady Manager. 

Two tumblers molasses, one tumbler sweet milk, one 
tumbler butter, one tablespoon soda, one tablespoon ginger. 
Well beaten. Mix very soft. Roll thick. Bake in a quick 
oven. 

12 



FAVORITE DISHES 



1 MR! 



Sam. S. Fif 



, of Wisconsin, Altern 




\ 

\ ^ One Clip of liini, one cup of molasses, 

-^ one cup of sugar, awe teaspoonful of ginger, 

one teaspoonful of sodii, dissolved in a little water. 
Boil the sugar, molasses, and lard three minutes, let 
cool, theit add the other ingredients and flour to 
make very stiff. Bake in a hot oven. 



^24,^ ^2^.^ <X ^tO 



t^l-.,^^^^ 



French Jumbles. 




From Mrs. E. S. Ti 



, o( Maryland, Lady Manager, 



One and one -half pounds of flour, one pound 
of granulated sugar, three - quarters of a pound of 
butter, three eggs, one teaspoonful of baking soda, 
dissolved in half a cup of milk. Season with lemon 
and grated nutmeg to taste. Roll with your hand 
in granulated sugar. Make in small rings and bake 
on tin sheets in a quick oven. The dough should 
be soft as it can be handled. 



Sand Tarts. 

From Miss Eloise L. Roman, o£ Maryland, Alternate 



To three-quarters of a pound of butter, well 
creamed, add one pound of sugar and three eggs. 



(J 



FOR THE TABLE, 179 



reserving the white of one; stir in one pound of flour. Roll 
out thin and spread on the white of ^%%\ sprinkle with 
cinnamon and sugar, and cut in squares. Have a half-pound 
of blanched and quartered almonds and place on the squares. 
Bake quickly. 



Lady Fingers. 

V 

From Mrs. M. D. Owings, of Washington, Lady Manager, 

Mix into a half pound of confectioner's sugar the yolks 
of six eggs. Work this mixture with a spoon until very 
light and frothy; then mix into it the whites of six eggs 
that have been beaten stiff, adding at the same time a quarter 
of a pound of flour, dried and sifted. Place this batter into 
a meringue bag, and squeeze it through in strips two and 
one - half mches long, sprinkle over some fine sugar and bake 
in a moderate oven twelve to fifteen minutes. 



Cyiijb^ Or^^^n.^-^ 




From Mrs. Matilda B. Cahsh, of Chicago, Lady Manager. 

Soak one -half package gelatine in one -half cup water 
for two hours; to a pint and a half can of pineapple add one 
cup of sugar and one cup of water; simmer fifteen minutes; 
add the gelatine and allow to remain over the fire until the 
gelatine is all melted ; pour into a tin basin and place in ice 
water; when thoroughly cold and beginning to thicken add 
the juice of one lemon and the stiffly beaten whites of foui 
eggs; beat until it will just pour, then turn into a tnoidd and 
set in a cool place to harden. Serve next day with whipped 
cream, sweetened with powdered sugar and flavored with a 
few drops of vanilla. 



S-AA'tLi^ 



Pineapple Souffle. 

From Mrs. Jambs R. Deane, of California, Lady Manager, 

Three ounces pineapple, cut in discs; three ounces sifted 
flour; three ounces sugar; two ounces butter; one- half pint 



FOR THE TABLE. l8l 



of milk; yolks of three eggs; whites of four eggs. Melt 
butter in a stew pan, add the flour and milk and cook well; 
add the sugar and pineapple; add the yolks of eggs, one by 
one, and stir well; then add the whites of eggs whipped to a 
stiff froth; stir these in lightly; pour into a well -greased 
souflflee tin; steam one hour over water that just simmers, not 
boiling. Serve with this sauce: Reduce one glass pine- 
apple syrup about one- half; add one ounce cube sygar and 
one glass sherry; color with cochineal and oour around the 
pudding. 



Pp2/i^i,J^^^ 



Peach Sponge. 

From Mrs. Joseph C. Straughan, of Idaho, Lady Manager. 

One pint of canned peaches, one - half package of gela- 
tine, the whites of five eggs, one scant cupful of sugar, one 
and a half cupful of water; soak the gelatine for two hours 
in half a cupful of the water; boil the cupful of the water 
and sugar fifteen minutes, mash the peaches fine, rub through 
a sieve and put in the syrup, cook ^\^ minutes, stirring all 
the time; place the sauce pan in another of boiling water and 
add the gelatine; stir for five or eight minutes to dissolve the 
gelatine; then place the sauce pan in a dish of ice water and 
beat the syrup until it begins to cool; add the whites of the 
eggs and beat until the mixture begins to harden ; pour into 
a mould and set away to harden ; serve with cream and sugar. 



l82 FAVORITE DISHES 



Hamburg Cream. 

From Mrs. Ida M. Ball, of Delaware, Ladj^ Manager. 

Beat together the juice of two lemons, half pound of 
sifted sugar, yolks of five eggs; put on the fire in a double 
boiler and let it come to a boil; add quickly the whites of the 
eggs beaten stiff; stir all well together; take immediately 
from the fire and serve cold in glasses or in large dessert dish. 




^ ^. ^t^ . 



Chocolat Mousse. 

From Miss Josephine Shakspeare, of Louisiana, Lady Manager 

Four strips of chocolate, one quart of milk, six eggs, 
one tablespoon of corn starch; sweeten to taste, and vanilla 
flavoring. Chocolate dissolved in a little warm milk to a 
paste. Put milk on to boil and stir in chocolate gradually. 
Set saucepan where it will cook slowly. Beat eggs well, 
mix in corn starch and add to milk and chocolate. Boil 
gently until smooth and thick, stirring until done. Pour 
into glass dish, or custard cups. To be eaten cold with 
sweetened whipped cream, heaped upon it. 






^'y(^<hn^uxju iS^aJ^c 



Chocolat Souffle. 

From Mrs. Alice Houghton, of Washington, Lady Manager. 

One pint milk, two tablespoons corn starch, one cup 
sugar, one square grated cliocolate, three eggs (yolks). 



MRS. J. FRANK BALL. 



FOR THE TABLE. 



183 



Scald the milk and stir in the corn starch wet in a little cold 
milk, add sugar to the chocolate and dissolve in a little boil- 
ing water, stir into the milk and when cooked add the 
beaten yolks of three eggs. Remove from the fire and 
flavor with vanilla. When cold pour over the top one cup 
whipped cream, to which has been added the beaten whites 
of three eggs. 





Chocolat Meringue. 

From Mrs. Katharine S. G. Paul, of Virginia, Lady Manager. 

One teacupful grated chocolate, one pint warm water. 
Boil together. Then add one pint sweet milk and let come 
to a boil. Add two heaping tablespoonfuls of corn starch, 
dissolved in one-half cup of milk, sweeten to taste and 
when cool flavor with vanilla. Beat the whites of two 
eggs and a pinch of pulverized sugar to a very light froth, 
and pile on top. 



Bavarian Cream. 

From Mrs. Alice J. Whalen, of Utah Territory, Lady Manager. 

One - half box gelatine, one - half cup cold water, one 
pint cream, one pint milk, four eggs (yolks), one - half cup 
sugar, one • half teaspoonf ul salt, one teaspoonf ul vanilla, one 
tablespoonful wine. Soak the gelatine in cold water till 



184 FAVOR fTE DISHES 

soft. Chill and whip the cream till you have three pints. 
Keep the whipped cream on ice, and boil the remainder of 
the cream, adding enough milk to make a pint in all. Beat 
the yolks of the eggs, and add the sugar and salt. Pour 
the boiling milk on the eggs, and when well mixed put 
back in the double boiler and cook about two minutes, or 
just enough to scald the ^^%» Stir constantly, add the 
soaked gelatine, and strain at once into a pan set in ice 
water. When cool, add the vanilla and wine. Stir until it 
begins to harden, then stir in quickly the whipped cream, 
and when nearly stiff enough to drop, pour into moulds wet 
in cold water. 

Chocolate Bavarian Cream-^'^lelt two sticks of sweet- 
ened chocolate, and stir them into the custard before strain- 
ing. 




Gelatine Cream. 

From Miss Mary Elliott McCandless, of Pennsylvania, Ladv 

Manager. 

To a pint of cream add half a cupful of powdered sugar 
and a teaspoonful vanilla extract; whip it to a stiff froth; dis- 
solve a quarter of a box of gelatine in two wine glasses of 
sherry heated, but not allowed to boil; let this cool a little, 
then stir into the cream; pour the whole in a mould and set 
it on the ice to stiffen. 



FOR THE TABLE, 185 



Nob Hill Pudding. 

From Miss Lida M. Russell, oi Nevada, Lady Manager. 

For one pint thick cream dissolve four sheets of isin- 
glass in four tablespoons of hot water; whip cream until 
thick, sweeten and flavor; have isinglass warm enough to 
pour, but not too hot; stir in very fast and put ii; mould to 



Apple Charlotte. 

From Mrs. John A. Logan, District of Columbia, Lady 

Manager. 

Mix one pint of stewed apples with one cup of sugar; 
the grated rind and juice of one lemon ; soak one - third of a 
box of gelatine in one - third of a cup of cold water twenty 
minutes; add one -third of a cup of boiling water to dissolve 
the gelatine; when cool add it to the apples; when begin- 
ning to stiffen add the beaten whites of three eggs; pour into 
moulds lined with lady fingers; serve with soft custard 
poured round the base* of the charlotte. 




c.--'^ ■t::z^^^.ii2:-«-4^^ 



Charlotte de Russe. 

From Mrs. Chart.es Price, of North Carolina, Third Vice- 
President Board Lady Managers. 

One pint rich cream; two eggs; one -quarter ounce of 
gelatine; sherry wine. Whip cream, first sweetening with 



l86 FAVORITE DISHES 



a cup of pulverized sugar, adding enough sherry to flavor 
and the yolk of one egg. Whip stiff the two whites of the 
eggs. Dissolve gelatine in half a cup of milk. Line glass 
dish with slices of sponge cake or lady fingers. Whip all 
the ingredients together and pour in dish to congeal. 



Charlotte Rtisse. 

From Mrs. Makcia Louise Gould, of Illinois, President State 

Board and Lady Manager. 

Whip one quart of rich cream to a stiff froth and drain 
well on a sieve. To one scant pint of milk add eggs beaten 
very light. Make very sweet and flavor with vanilla. Cook 
over hot water till it is a thick custard. Soak one full ounce 
of Cox's gelatine in a itUle cold water; warm over hot 
water. When the custard is very cold, beat in lightly the 
gelatine and the whipped cream. Line the bottom of 
your mould with buttered paper, the sides with sponge cake 
or lady fingers, fastened together with the white of an egg. 
Fill with the cream and put in a cold place, in the summer 
on the ice. To turn out, dip the mold for a moment in ^oi 
water. 




FOR THE TABLE, 157 



Charlotte Russe. 

From Mrs. Susan W. Ball, of Indiana, Alternate Lady Manager. 

One -half box gelatine, put to soak in one -half pint of 
milk for an hour. Take one -half pint of milk and yolks of 
two eggs and make a custard, sweeten and flavor to taste; 
when thick enough, stir in the gelatine until cool. Take one 
quart rich cream, flavored with wine; sweeten and whip; 
two dozen lady fingers, soaked in wine; line a bowl with 
them. When the custard is cold, stir the cream in it, con- 
tinuing to stir until it begins to harden; then pour into bowl. 
If the cream is not very rich, add the whites of two eggs. 





Charlotte Rtisse. 

From Mrs. George W. Lamar, of Georgia, Alternate Lady 

Manager. 

One quart of cream; sweeten and flavor with two wine- 
glasses of wine and a half teaspoonful of vanilla. Whip 
with an Ggg whip until it becomes very thick. Put one- 
third of a box of gelatine (Nelson's preferred) to soak in one 
pint of water. When quite soft pour off the water and dis- 
solve by holding over the fire and stirring carefully; when 
tepid pour into the cream. Let the mixture congeal par- 
tially and pour into a mould that has been lined with lady 
fingers or sponge cake cut into strips. Put into n cold place 
and turn out before servinsr. 



■^iV y^-^y^- /Vy Qi-*52<?7e^^ 



l8S FAVORITE DISHES 



Strawberry Blanc Mans:e. 

From Mrs. Benedette B. Tobin, of Texas, President State 

Board and Lady Manager. 

Crush slightly with a silver spoon a quart (measured 
without their stalks) of fresh and finely flavored strawberries; 
strew over them eight ounces of powdered sugar and let 
them stand three or four hours, then turn them onto a fine 
hair sieve reversed, and rub them through it. Melt over a 
gentle fire two ounces of best gelatine in a pint of new milk 
and sweeten it with four ounces of sugar; strain it through 
a fine muslin bag and then mix it with a pint and a quarter 
of sweet thick cream ; keep stirring until nearl}- or quite cold, 
then pour it gradually on the strawberries, whisking briskly 
together. Last of all add in small portions the strained juice 
of a fine large lemon. Mould blanc mange and set in a very 
cold place for twelve hours or more before serving. Straw- 
berries, one quart; sugar, eight ounces; gelatine, two ounces; 
new milk, one pint; sugar, four ounces; cream, one and one- 
fourth pint; juice one lemon. 






Snow Pudding. 



From Mrs. Susan G. Cooke, of Tennessee, Secretary of the 

Board of Lady Managers. 

One - half package gelatine, three eggs, juice of one 
lemon, one pint of milk, two cups sugar; soak the gelatine 
one hour in a teacup cold water; to this add one pint of boil- 
ing water (at the end of hour); stir until gelatine is thor- 
oughly dissolved; add two -thirds of the sugar and lemon 
juice; beat the whites of eggs to a stiff froth. When the 



FOR THE TABLE. 1 89 



gelatine is quite cold, whip into the whites, a spoonful at a 
time, for at least one hour; whip steadily, and when all is 
stiff, pour into a mould previously wet with cold water; set 
in a cold place; when sufficiently moulded turn into a glass 
dish. Make a custard of the milk, eggs and remainder of the 
sugar, flavor with vanilla or bitter almond and pour this 
around the base of mould before serving. 




Wine or Gelatine Jelly. 

From Mrs. Carrington Mason, of Tennessee, Alternate Lady 

Manager. 

To a box of Cox or Nelson's gelatine, put a pint of cold 
water, the juice of three lemons and the rind of one; let it 
stand one hour, then add three pints of boiling water, one 
and one - half pound white sugar, one tumbler of Madeira or 
sherry wine; stir all the ingredients well together and striiin 
through a jelly bag. 



o^^^^^l^ >> LPa^ 




Fruit Jelly. 

From Miss Wilhelmine Reitz, of Indiana, Lady Manager. 

Cover one box of gelatine with a half pint of cold 
water and stand it aside for thirty minutes, then pour over it 
one pint of boiling water, add one pound of sugar, juice of 



190 FAVOltlTE DISHES 

three lemons and two oranges, strain. Moisten a plain mould 
with cold water, put in the bottom a layer of white grapes, 
pour in a little of the gelatine; stand on ice until the gelatine 
congeals. Now put a layer of candied cherries, then a layer 
of sliced bananas, a layer of orange pulp, another layer of 
bananas, then a layer of chopped almonds, another layer of 
grapes and so continue until the mould is full. Pour over 
this the remaining quantity of gelatine, which must be per- 
fectly cold but not stiff; stand away to harden. If you use 
wine, the gelatine may be flavored with wine omitting the 
orange and le^.on. 



A Dainty Dessert. 

From Mrs. Solomon Thatcher, Jr, of Illinois, Lady Manager. 

Take choice Seville oranges, remove care- 
fully about one - third of the orange, leaving a 
strip one -half inch wide to form a handle. 
From this improvised orange basket carefully 
scoop all the pulp, leaving only the empty shell. 
Fill this full of Charlotte Russe. This makes 
a pretty dish. 

Tamales de Dulce. 

From Senora Don Manuel Chaves, o( New Mexico. 

Para hacer tamales de dulce se descojo buen mais bianco 
y se hace nistamal. Despues se lava muy bien de modo que 



FOR THE TABLE, 191 



no le qiiede nada cal y se muele en el metate muy remolido. 
Despiies se bate la masa en un cajete bien batida y sepulsa en 
una poca de agua hasta el ver que esta bien alsado. Cuando 
la masa se sube sobre el agua ya esta de punto. Se le echa 
una poca de manteca y asucar y se les pone adatro una poca 
de canela molida y pasas y se enbuelven en ojas de mais, y 
se amarran y ya estan listos para ser cosidos con vapor. 



A Cheap Dessert. 

From Mrs. Kate Canthon Mc Daniel, of Texas, Lady Manager. 

Beat the whites of four eggs to a stiff froth; place them 
carefully in a vessel containing a pint of boiling milk; let them 
remain until set, then remove carefully to a plate. Beat the 
four yolks and a cup of sugar until light; stir in half cup of 
sweet milk, pour slowly into the boiling milk, stirring briskly 
all the while; continue stirring and let it remam on the fire 
long enough to thicken, taking care that it never boils or it 
will be unfit for use; flavor to suit the taste. Place slices o£ any 
cake in dessert plates; pour the custard over them, put a 
spoonful of the whites on each piece of cake and a drop of 
jelly in the center of the whites. 

Bananas in Jelly. 

From Mrs. Governor Rickards, of Montana, President State 

Board and Lady Manager. 

Make with boiling water one quart of strong lemonade, 
using only the juice of the lemons; soak one- half box of gela- 



J92 FAVORITE DISHES 



tine in a small cup of cold water; stir it into the boiling lemon- 
ade and set where it will cool but not harden. Cut three 
bananas in length - wise halves and lay them in a mould wet 
with cold water, cover with one -half the jelly and put the 
mould on ice till jelly is set, then slice three more and pour 
on remainder of jelly. Serve with cream or soft custard. 




^ /kc//^^^ 



Almond Blanc Mange. 

From Mrs. Benedette B. Tobin, of Texas, President State 

Board and Lady Manager. 

One quart of milk, one ounce of gelatine, three 
ounces almonds blanched an^J pounded in a mortar with one 
tablespoon of rose water added to prevent oiling; three- 
fourths cup sugar. Heat the milk to boiling, having pre- 
viously soaked the gelatine in a cup of it for an hour, add 
gelatine when the milk is scalding hot, add the pounded 
almond paste and stir all together ten minutes before putting- 
in the sugar. When the gelatine has dissolved remove the 
blanc mange from the vessel of boiling water in which you 
have cooked it, and strain through a thin muslin bag, pressing 
it well to get flavor of almonds — there should be three or 
four bitter ones among them. Wet a mould with cold water, 
put in the blanc mange and set in a cold place until firm. 






FOR THE TABLE, 193 



Floating Island. 

From Mrs. Rosine Ryan, of Texas, Lady Manager -at -Large. 

Break six eggs into a bowl, separating the whites from 
four with the yolks and whites of two; make a boiled custard, 
say a quart of milk, six tablespoonfuls of sugar, a flavoring 
of vanilla, peach or sherry wine. Beat the whites to a stiff 
froth, sweetening and flavoring them a little also. Wet a 
large spoon, turn it around in the beaten eggs, take out a 
piece of oblong shape, and poach it in boiling milk.* When 
the custard is cold, pour it into a glass dish and place the 
poached whites on top. 



-^ 



^^^w 




Boiled Custard. 



From Mrs. Charles J. McClung, of Tennessee, Alternate Lady 

Manager. 

Let one quart of milk come to a boil with a piece of 
stick cinnamon in it. Beat six eggs (leaving out the whites 
of three for the float) and one half pint of sugar very light 
and pour the boiling milk into them. Wash your kettle and 
return all to the stove and boil until as thick as cream (be 
sure and do not boil until curdled), then set aside to cool. 
Beat the whites of three eggs with three tablespoonfuls of 
sugar, to which you add a little acid jelly as you beat; beat 
until perfectl}^ smooth and put on the top of your custard in 
spoonfuls. 

13 



^ I 



FAVORITE DISHES 



From Mrs, Nakcv Huston Banks, of Kentucky, Alternate Lady 
Manager • at - Large. 

One cup white sugar, one cup thick cream, whites of 
five eggs, two teaspooiifuls baking powder, flour to make 
a stiff batter; bake in small custard cuds. 



Lemon Custard. 

From Mrs, Ida M. Ball, of Delaware, Lady Manager. 

One lemon (juice and grated rind), one cup sugar, yolks 
of two eggs, one teaspoonful butter, one-half cup water, two 
teaspoonfuls cornstarch, boil water and stir in above mixture. 

Icing for lop — Whites of two eggs, two tablespoonfuls 
of pulverized sugar, 



<fek^ J 



Pmlt Cream. 

From Mrs. H. F. Brown, of Minnesota, Ladv Manager. 

One quart of fruit (after being put through colander); 
one cup of cold water -^very sweet. Add the whites of 
three eggs (unbeaten). Put in a freezer and freeze as 
ice cream, stirring continually. 



Caramel Ice Cream. 

From Mtts. Lily Rosecrans Toole, of Montana, Ladv Manager, 

Take one pint of brown sugar and bum it; then add 
water, making a dark brown fluid. This ought to make 
enough to flavor three pints of cream. Have the cream 
very rich, more so than for ordinary ice cream. Then color 
the cream with the caramel until it is a good shade of 
brown — darker than coffee color. For this you must have 
>9S 



19^ FAVORITE DISHES 



your caramel very black, as it is the quality and not the 
quantity of caramel that will give the proper flavor; sweeten 
to taste. 




Tutti Frutti Ice Cream. 

From Mrs. J. Montgomery Smith, of Wisconsin, Alternate Lady 

Manager. 

Make one quart rich vanilla ice cream, and when partly 
frozen, add one pound of candied fruit, either cherries, cur- 
rants or citron. 






Vanilla Ice Cream. 

From Mrs. Mary C. Harrison, of Wyoming, Lady Manager. 

Three quarts sweet cream; one quart powdered sugar; 
one pint sweet milk (dissolve sugar in milk); two table- 
spoons extract vanilla. Pack with equal quantities of cracked 
ice and rock salt. Turn slowly and steadily. 

Maraschino Ice Cream. 

From Miss Mary Elliott McCandless, of Pennsylvania, Lady 

Manager. 

A simple rule for Maraschino ice cream calls for one 
quart of cream, a large cup of granulated sugar, six ^^^ 



FOR THE TABLE. 197 

yolks, a cup of milk, and a tablespooiiful ol gdatme, which 
has been soaked for two liours in four tablespooiifuls of cold 
water. Let the milk come to a boil and pour it slowly over 
the eggs, beat them all the while lo prevent their curdling. 
Then add the gelatine and finally the sugar. Beat the whole 
well, strain it into ibe cream and add four tablespoon fuls of 
Maraschino. Pack the cream in a freezer and fieeze like 
any other. When it is of proper consistency, remove the 
heater, cork up the freezer, pack in more ice and salt, cover 
the whole closely with thick newspapers and let it rest for 
an hour or two before it is served. Tliis is a most delicious 
cream. 



^my 



Chocolate Caramels. 

From Mrs. Carrington Mason, of Tennessee, Alternate Lady 

Manager. 

One pound white sugar; one - quarter pound choco- 
late; four tablespoonfuls of molasses; one cup of sweet 
milk, and a piece of butter the size of a walnut. Boil until 
it will harden in water. Flavor with vanilla and pour on a 
buttered slab. 



ty^^^^l^ ' LP A. 




Fudges. 



From Mrs. J. Montgomery Smith, of Wisconsin, Alternate Lady 

Manager. 

Four cups granulated sugar; one cup cream; one cup 
water; one -half cake chocolate; one • half cup butter. Cook 
until it just holds together, then add two teaspoonfuls 
extract of vanilla and pour into pans, not })uttered. When 
cool enough to bear finger in, stir it until it no longer runs. 
It should not grain, but be smooth. Cut into squares. 



J^4oA>^€^ 




FOR THE TABLE. 199 



Creun Candy. 

From Mrs. Mary Payton, of Oregon, Ladj' Manager. 

Stir into the white of one egg and one tiiblespoonful of 
water, sugar (confectioner's) enough to make into molds. 
Press one -half walnut on each side and place in a dry place. 
'Dhtes can be used in the same way as the nuts. 



J ^ 



'^yt^t^n/ ^ .^/lyyLe'-''^ 




Romaine. 

From Mrs. Potter Palmer, of Chicago, President Board of Lady 

Managers 

With best wishes for your success^ I am 

Very sincerely yours. 




^^i^4^ t^^^TT^-^^ y/^ 




Boil together one quart of water and one pint of sugar 
for about half an hour; add the juice of six good sized 
lemons and one orange; strain and set away to cool. Then 
prepare the following: Boil together one gill of sugar and 
one gill of water for eighteen minutes. While the syrup is 
cooking, beat the whites of four eggs very stiff, and into 
these pour the hot syrup very slowly — beating all the time, 
and continue to beat a few minutes after it is all in. Set 
this awav to cool. Place the first mixture in the freezer 
and freeze by turning it all the time for twenty minutes. 
Then take off the cover, remove the beater and add one gill 
of sherry, two tablespoonfuls Jamaica rum and the meringue, 
mixing this well with a spoon into the frozen preparation. 
Cover again and set away until time to serve. 

Serve in punch glasses, as a course between entrees and 
roast. 

200 



FOR THE TABLE, 20I 



Roman Punch. 



From Mrs. John R. Wilson, of South Dakota, Lady 

Manager. 

Three pounds pulverized sugar; three quarts of water; 
the juice of eight lemons. Soak two tablespoonfuls of gela- 
tine in a little of the water; boil all together for a moment, 
then cool and strain ; add one - half pint of rum and the 
whites of eight eggs without beating. Freeze. 





ZZ^^y-^ 



Kirsch Punch. 



Place in a vessel half a pound of powderd sugar, with 
one quart of cold water ; grate in the rind of a large lemon or 
of two smaller ones, squeezing in the juice of three good- 
sized ones, or four, if small. Beat this thoroughly for five 
minutes. Taste the mixture and add more powdered sugar 
if desired sweeter; then strain through a sieve into the 
freezer. Stir into this two gills of Kirsch. Freeze it as 
you would an ice cream. Serve in twelve punch glasses. 



^ 



^ZAA-^c^ 




Abricot Sorbet. 

From Mrs. M. D. Owings, of Washington, Lady Manager. 

Take twelve fine, sound apricots; wipe carefully, cut 
them in two, remove the stones, and put them in a vessel 



202 FAVORITE DISHES 



with half a pound of powdered sugar, mashing them thor- 
oughly. Then take two ounces of bitter almonds; peel and 
mash these while wet; add one gill of cold water and one 
ounce of powdered sugar, mashing the whole together. 
Place a muslin cloth over the vessel containing the mashed 
apricots and through it press the almond mixture. Stir all 
this together for four minutes; then add the juice of three 
lemons and a pint and a half of cold water. Beat thor- 
oughly, then strain through a fine sieve into the freezer, and 
freeze as you do ice cream. 



ck.ik 



Pineapple Sherbet. 

From Mrs. Governor Edwin C. Burleigh, of Maine, Second 
Vice - President Board of Lady Managers. 

One quart grated pineapple, two heaping tablespoonfuls 
gelatine dissolved in hot water, one quart water, one quart 
sugar, juice of one large lemon, whites of two eggs well 
beaten put in just before freezing. 

Orange Water Ice. 

From Mrs. Theo. F. Armstrong, of Delaware, Alternate Lady 

Manager. 

Eight oranges, two lemons, the grated rind of two of 
the oranges boiled in a little water and then strained, two 
tablespoonfuls of corn starch mixed with a little cold water; 



FOR THE TABLE. 



203 



then pour boiling water on the starch; put in the juice 
of oranges and lemons after straining; one and one -half 
pounds sugar; add enough water to make one gallon, then 
freeze. 



Oranse Prappee. 

From Miss Annie M. Mahan, of West Virginia, Alternate Lady 

Manager. 

One pint orange juict, one pint water, one pint sugar, 
juice of two lemons, grated rind of two oranges, partially 
freeze and pack in ice only. 






g(ymGi 




Egg Nogg. 

From Mrs. W. W. Kimball, of Chicago, Lady Manager. 

One tablespoon of sugar; the yolk of one egg beaten 
with sugar; beat the white separately, stiff; add four spoons 
of brandy to beaten yolk; put half the white into mixture; 
half a glass of cream ; then put the rest of the white on top. 




Our Grandmother's Syllabub. 

From Mrs. Sarah S. C. Angell of Michigan, Lady Manager. 

One quart rich cream, juice and peel three lemons, one 
pint sherry wine, one quart pulverized sugar. Grate the 
lemon peels and express the juice, add sugar and pour over 
these the wine; stir until sugar is thoroughly moistened and 
then slowly add the cream. When mixed take whip-dash and 
with a tablespoon remove the floating bubbles which rise to 
the surface. Drop the contents of your spoon into Vemonade 
or champagne glasses, continuing this process until all the 
cream' is whipped. If the mixture becomes too thick and 
creamy to make bubbles, dilute it with sweet milk. This 

204 



FOR THE TABLE, 205 



quantity will make thirty or forty glasses or fill a four - quart 
glass bowl. Great care must be taken not to dip the spoon 
too deeply into the mixture, the froth is what is desired. 



/^,„^/(^.^t/L^ 



Claret Punch. 



From Mrs. Frona Eunice Wait, of California, Alternate Lady 

Manager. 

Take half a gallon of good claret and a pint of old 
whisky and mix them thoroughly; sweeten to taste by mix- 
ing the sugar with a little water to dissolve it before it comes 
in contact with the alcohol. Take a can of pineapple, or one 
fresh one, and chop fine, put juice and all into the punch; set 
the whole mixture on ice antl let it stand at least three hours 
before using; serve some portion of the pineapple with each 
glass. 



Beef Tea for Children. 

From Mrs. Ida M. Ball, of Delaware, Lady Manager. 

Use soup meat without bone cut into dice, and to every 
pound of meat use one pint of cold water. Cut up the meat 
on a dish, not on a board, as the latter absorbs the juices. 
Have the proper measure of water beside you in a soup basin 
or bowl, and as you cut up the meat sprinkle it moderately 
with salt and throw it into the cold water; there let it remain 



3o6 FAVORITE DISHES 

for two hours, then put it all into a sauce p:in and set it on 
the fire. Watch carefully the first rising and skim and secure 
this as it is the very essence of the beef; put it into a clean 
bowl and let the beef go on boiling ten minutes, no longer; 
then pour the extract through a sieve to the first skimmings; 
stir before using. For older children than infants you may 
flavor with onion and a few cloves. 



ts^ 



CbafiDqD|5|^ 



Lobster a la Newburg. 



From Miss Mary Crease Sears, of MaseachuEetti, Alternate 
J-tSdy Manager. 

Two good • sized boiled lobsters- 
Pick out all the meat and cut into 
one-inch pieces. Place in a chafing 
dish with one ounce of butter, a pinch 
of salt and a very little i-ed pepper. 
Cook five minutes, then add a wine 
glass of Mndeira. Cook about three 

minutes, then iidd the yolks of three eggs well beaten with 
half a pint of sweet cream or milk; cook until it thickens, 
then serve. 



^-^CcOAy^ 



a. 



v<^.»-^ 



From Mrs. Mary S. Lockwood, of District of Columbia, Lady 
Manager- at- Large, 

Beat four fresh eggs slightly with two tablespoonfuls of 
cream; season with pepper and salt; pnt a tablespoonful of 
biittei \n the chafing dish, and when very hot pour in the 



2o8 FAVORITE DISHES 



^%%\ scrape up rapidly from all parts of the pan the cooked 
^S&» letting the liquid portion follow the knife. It takes 
from forty to sixty seconds to cook it, then slip the knife 
under the left edge and fold the omelet over quickly and 
lightly. Serve on a hot dish. 





Welsh Rarebit. 

From Mrs. Col. James A. Mulligan, of Chicago, Lady Manager. 

Take one pound of American cheese, cut up in small 
pieces, place in a chafing dish and season with half a salt- 
spoonful of red pepper; stir for ten minutes or until cheese is 
thoroughly melted; have ready six large pieces of toast on a 
very hot dish ; cover each slice with the melted cheese ; serve 
very hot as a relish. 




^:^ /^^i^^^^:^^..^^ 



Shrimp a la Newbnrg. 

From Mrs. Harriet T. Upton, of Ohio, Alternate Lady 

Manager. 

One tablespoon butter; when hot add one tablespoon 
flour, four tablespoons cream stirred together; yolks of two 
eggs, add salt, red pepper and mace; bring to a scalding 
point, add shrimps and four tablespoons of sherry; serve at 
once. 



^-ImmuI- f AlL- 



MRS. JAMES A. MULLIGAN. 



FOR THE TABLE. 209 



Chicken with Currie. 

From Mrs. I. L. Requa, of California, Alternate Lady Manager. 

Mix half a teacupful of butter and two tablespoonfuls of 
currie powder . thoroughly together and put into the chafing 
dish with one small onion cut fine; stew together four min- , 
utes and then add half a teacupful of stock or broth, half tea- 
cupful milk, salt and pepper to taste; when this has become, 
smooth add the chicken and stir constantly in the sauce, 
stewing nine minutes; serve with rice croquettes. 




^^^ 




Fresh Mushrooms a la Creme. 

From Mrs. Francis B. Clarke, of Minnesota, Lady Manager. 

Take a pound of fresh mushrooms, the larger the more 
tender; peel carefully the thin skin from the tops and wash 
thoroughly; then cut mto broad strips or halves, if small, and 
place in a sauce pan with a pint of cream; let them boil 
slowly for a half to three - quarters of an hour, until tender ; 
then take a little flour and a tablespoonful of butter, rub 
thoroughly together and mix into the cream; do not get it 
too thick; add salt and pepper and serve on hot toast. This 
also is very nice served in a chafing dish. Be sure to have 
the water in the under pan. Serve on toast. This makes a 
delicious luncheon dish. 






H 



FAVORITE DISHES 



Mock Terrapin. 

From Mrs. Margabet Blaine Salisbury, of Utah, Eighth Vice- 
President Board ol Ladv Managers. 

Put in the chnfing dish the dark meat of cold chicken, 
turkey or grouse, cut in small dice, with half a pint of cream 
or stock, and when it comes to a boil stir in the following 
mixture: two tablespoons of butter rubbed into a smooth 
paste with a tablespoonful of flour and the yolks of three 
eggs, a teaspoonful dry mustard, a little cayenne pepper and 
salt, all mixed with a little cream or stock; let simmer a few 
minutes (not boil) and when ready to serve stir in a large 
wine-glass of Madeira. 

Wishing you the success you deserve in the aceomfliskmeHl of this 
laudable project, btlieve ate. 

Sincerely ymn. 




CONTENTS. 



Bread. 

PAGE 

Steamed Brown Bread, - - Mrs. Virginia C. Meredith, - - 13 

Light Bread, - - - Mrs. Governor James P. Eagle, 13 

Franklin Gems, - - - Mrs. L. M. N. Stevens, - - - 14 

Baking Powder Biscuit, - Mrs. Rollin A. Edgerton, - 14 

French Rolls, - - - Mrs. Sallie Howard Bush, - - 15 

Risen Muffins, - - - Mrs. Sallie Howard Bush, - 15 

Breakfast Rolls, - - - Miss Meta Telfair McLaws, - 16 

Pocket-Book Rolls, - - Mrs. Ida M. Balt., - - - 16 

Potato Rolls, - - - - Mrs. Theo. F. Armstrong, - - 17 

Graham Gems, - - - Mrs. Louise Campbell, - - 17 

Com Cake, - - - - Miss Hattie T. Hundley, - - 18 

Bachelors' Pone Pone, - Mrs. Mary B. P. Black, - - 18 

Com Bread, - - - - Mrs. T. J. Butler, - - - 19 

Com Meal Muffins, - - Mrs. Parthenia P. Rue, - - 19 

Baked Com Bread, - - Mrs. Minna G. Hooker, - - 19 

Steamed Brown Bread, - Mrs. E. V. McConnell, - - 20 

Raised Brown Bread, - - Mrs. Ellen M. Chandler, - - 20 

Boston Brown Bread, - Mrs. Governor James P. Eagle, 20 

Strawberry Short Cake, - - Mrs. Governor Edwin C. Burleigh: 21 

Strawberry Short Cake, - Mrs. Augusta Truman, - - 21 

Orange Short Cake, - - Mrs. M. D. Owings, - . - - 22 

Sally Lunn, - - - Mrs. Margaret M. Ratcliffe, 22 

Ham Toast, - - - - Mrs. Rosine Ryan, - - - 23 

Oat Meal, - - - - Mrs. George Hoxworth, - - 23 

Brewis, Mrs. Francis E. Hale, - - - 24 

Sandwich Dressing, - - Mrs. Mariam D. Cooper, - - 24 

Oysters, -- - ---25 

Bouillon, ----- 26 



Amber Soup, - 
Mock-Turtle Soup, 



Soup. 

Carrie V. Shuman, 
Mrs. Beriah Wilkins, 
•211 



27 
28 



212 



CONTENTS. 



Julienne Soup, 

Noodle Soup, ... 

Corn Soup, . . . . 

Celery Soup, 

Oyster Soup, - - - . 

Bisque of Crab or Crawfish, 

Potato Puree, 

Asparagus Soup, 

Tomato Soup, 

Tomato Soup, - - - 

Gumbo Fild, - - - . 

Gumbo Soup, 

Chicken Gumbo with Oysters, 

Okra Soup, ... 

31ack Bean Soup, - 

Bean Soup, 

Soup Regency, 

Pea Soup, . - - - 

Clam Chowder, t 

Clam Chowder, - 



Soles or Smelts Cooked with 

Mattre D'Hotel Sauce, 
Baked Shad, ... 
Cubion, .... 
Cod Fish Balls, - 
Salmon Croquettes, 



Maryland Terrapins, 
Terrapin White Stew, 
White Stew of Terrapin, 
Terrapin Croquettes, - 
Deviled Lobster, 
Lobster Croquettes, - 
Deviled Crabs, 
Deviled Crabs, - 
Deviled Crabs, 



PAGE 

Mrs. Susan R. Ashley, - - 29 

Mrs. Frona Eunice Wait, - 29 

Mrs. M. D. Thatcher, - - - 30 

Mrs. Alice B. Castleman, - 31 

Mrs. Helen C. Brayton, - - 31 

Mrs. Belle H. Perkins, - - 32 

Mrs. James R. Deane, - - - 32 

Mrs. Laura P. Coleman, - - 33 

Mrs. Ida M. Ball, - - - 33 

Mrs. E. J. P. Howes, - - - 34 

Mrs. Anna M. Fosdick, - - - 34 

Mrs. Virginia T. Smith, - - 35 

Mrs. Alice B. Castleman, - - 35 

Miss Floride Cuningham, - 36 

Mrs. M. D. Foley, - - - - 36 

Mrs. Anne B. Patrick, - - 37 

Mrs. Isabella Beecher Hooker, 37 

Mrs. Whiting S. Clark, - - 38 

Mrs. Charles H. Olmstead, - 38 

Miss Lida M. Russell, - - 39 

Fish. 

Mrs. James R. Deane, - - - 40 

Mrs. Mary R. Kinder, - - 41 

Mrs. Anna M. Fosdick, - - - 41 

Mrs. a. M. Palmer, - - - 41 

Mrs. George W. Lamar, - - 42 

Shell Pish. 

Mrs. William Reed, - - - 43 

Mrs. James R. Deane, - - 44 

Mrs. George W. Lamar, - - 44 

Mrs. W. W. Kimball, - - 45 

Mrs. Joseph C. Straughan, - - 45 

Mrs. Louise L. Barton, - - 46 

Mrs. Cora L. Bartlett, - - 46 

Mrs. Anna E. M. Farnum, - 47 

Miss Jennie Torreyson, - - 48 



CONTENTS, 



213 







PAGE 


Soft Shell Crabs, 


Mrs. George W. Lamar, - 


48 


Frog Legs, - 


- Mrs. Ella Ray Miller, 


49 


Pann^e Oysters, 


Mrs. Alice B. Castleman, 


49 


Creamed Oysters, - 


- Mrs. Mira B. F. Ladd, - 


49 


" Little Pigs in Blankets," - 


Mrs. Isabella Laning Candee, 


50 


Escalloped Oysters, 


- Miss Meta Telfair McLaws, 


51 


Creamed Shrimps, 


Mrs. M. D. Foley, 
Sauces. 


51 


Sauce Mousseline, - 


- Mrs. Wilson Paiterson, 


53 


Tartar Sauce, - - - 


Mrs. Myra Bradwell, 


53 


Boiled Egg Sauce, - 


- Mrs. James R. Doolittle, Jr., 
fleats. 


54 


Filet of Beef, - 


- Mrs. Governor Oglesby, 


55 


Roast Beef, . - - 


Mrs. Matilda B. Carse, - 


56 


Yorkshire Pudding, 


- Mrs. Harriet A. Lucas, 


57 


Roulards, - - - - 


Mrs. Ralph Trautmann, - 


58 


Beef Loaf, 


- Mrs. Carrington Mason, 


59 


Hash. ... - 


Mrs. Annie L. Y. Orff, 


59 


Mutton Chops, 


- Miss Mary B. Hancock, 


60 


Roast Lamb, 


Mrs. Robt. B. Mitchell, - 


60 


Lamb Chops, - 


- Mrs. Hester A. Hanback, - 


61 


Potted Tongue, - 


Mrs. Frank H. Daniell, - 


61 


Veal Croquettes, 


- Mrs. Isabella Beecher Hooker, - 


62 


Veal Croquettes, 


Miss Katharine L. Minor, 


63 


Veal Pot Pie, - 


- Miss Susan W. Ball, 


63 


Casselettes de Veau, - 


Mrs. James R. Deane, 


64 


Veal Fricassee, 


- Mrs. T. J. Butler, .... 


64 


Veal Loaf, 


Mrs. Whiting S. Clark, - 
Sweetbreads. 


65 


Sweet-Bread Croquettes, 


- Mrs. Schuyler Colfax, 


66 


Sweetbreads and Oysters, - 


SeSora Teresa A. de Symington, 


67 


Sweetbreads and Mushrooms 


, Mrs. p. B. Winston, 


67 


Sweetbreads en Coquille, - 


Miss Jennie Torreyson, - 


68 


Sweetbread Patties, 


- Miss Wilhelmine Reitz, 
Poultry. 


68 


Boiled Chicken, 


- Mrs. Edwin C. Burleigh, 


70 


Jambolaya, - - - 


Miss Katharine L. Minor, 


70 



214 



CONTENTS. 



Chicken Livers, en brochette, 

with Bacon, - 
Polio con Arroz, 
Polio con Tomates, 
Tamales de Chile, 
Coquilles de Volaille, - 
Croquettes, . . - - 
Chicken Croquettes, - 
Curry of Chicken in Puffs, 
Pilauf, .... 
Fricassee Chicken, 
A Good Roast Turkey, 
Dressing for Turkey, 
How to Cook Chestnuts, 



Wild Duck in Maryland, 
Snipe and Woodcock Broiled 

on Toast, ... 
Prairie Chicken, - 



Vegetable Oyster, - - . 

Cauliflower with Tartar Sauce, 

Scalloped Potatoes, 

Escalloped Sweet Potatoes, 

Potato Puff, . . . . 

Potato Croquettes, 

Potatoes — Mashed, 

Boston Baked Beans, 

Lima Beans, . . - . 

Baked Tomatoes, 

Baked Tomatoes, . . - 

Stewed Tomatoes, 

Beets, 

Parsnips — Stewed, 
Stuffed Green Peppers, - 
Corn Oysters, ... 
Fried Egg Plant, - 



Mrs. Col. James A. Mulligan, - 

V SeSora Don Manuel Chaves, 

Miss Josephine Shakspeare, - 

Mrs. L. C. Gillespie, 

Mrs. Sarah H. Bixby, 

Senora Teresa A. de Symington, 

Miss Floride Cunningham, 

Mrs. Helen C. Brayton, 

Mrs. Helen A. Peck, 

Mrs. W. H. Felton, 

Miss Eloise L. Roman, 

Qame. 

Mrs. William Reed, 

Mrs. Rufus S. Frost, 
Mrs. E. S. Thomson, - 

Vegetables. 

Mrs. Governor Bagley, 

Mrs. Myra Bradwell, 

Mrs. Beriah Wilkins, - 

Mrs. p. B. Winston, - 

Mrs. H. F. Brown, 

Mrs. Frances P. Burrows, 

Mrs. E. J. P. Howes, 

Mrs. Elizabeth C. Langworthy, 

Mrs. Mariam D. Cooper, 

Mrs. Governor Rickards, 

Mrs. Augusta Truman, 

Miss Mary H. Krout, 

Mrs. Governor John M. Stone, 

Mrs. M. R. Lee, . . - - 

Mrs. Alice B. Castleman, - 

Mrs. John S. Briggs, 

Mrs. Lily Rosecrans Toole, 



PAGB 

71 
72 

72 

73 

74 

74 

75 
76 

76 

78 

78 



79 

79 
81 



82 
82 

83 
83 
84 
84 
85 
85 
86 

86 

87 
87 
88 
88 
88 

89 
89 



CONTENTS. 



215 



Macaroni — Good, 
Rice as a Vegetable, 
Cranberries, 



Plain Omelet with Eight Eggs, 
Green Com Omelet, - 
Omelet with Ham, - 
Omelet — Plain, - 
Stuffed Eggs, 

Deviled Eggs for Luncheon or 
Picnics, .... 
Escalloped Eggs, 
How to Take Egg, 



Lobster Salad, 
Chicken Salad, - 
Southern Chicken Salad, 
Chicken Salad, - 
Vegetable Salad, - 
String Bean Salad, 
BJxcellent Potato Salad, - 
Tomato Salad, - 
Tomato Salad, 
Cabbage Salad, - 
Fish Salad, 
Salad Dressing, - 



Mrs. Sam S. Fifield, - 
Mrs. Charles H. Olmstead, 
Mrs. Lana A. Bates, - 

Eggs. 

Mrs. L. Brace Shattuck, 
Mrs. Frances P. Burrows, 
Mrs. Naomi T. Compton, 
Miss Mary E. Busselle, - 
Mrs. Ralph Trautmann, 

Mrs. Isabella Laning Candee, 
Mrs. Helen A. Peck, 
Mrs. Naomi T. Compton, 

Salad. 

Mrs. Charles Price, 
Mrs. a. M. Palmer, - 
Mrs. Charles J. McClung, - 
Mrs. Margaret M. Ratcliffe, 
Mrs. Florence H. Kidder, - 
Mrs. Caroline E. Dennis, 
Mrs. Genevieve M. Guthrie, 
Mrs. Mira B. F. Ladd, 
Miss Mary Crease Sears, 
Mrs. Theresa J. Cochran, 
Mrs. Mary C. Bell, 
Miss Loraine Pearce Bucklin, 



PAGE 

90 
90 

91 



92 
92 

93 
94 
94 

95 

95 
96 



97 

97 
98 

99 

99 
100 

lOI 
lOI 

102 
102 
103 
103 



Famous Doughnuts, 
Raised Doughnuts, 
Doughnuts, - 
Doughnuts, 
Callas, - 
Apple Fritters, - 
Com Fritters, 
Clam Fritters, - 



Doughnuts and Fritters. 

- Miss Frances E. Willard, 
Mrs. Ellen M. Chandler, 

- Mrs. Laura E. Howey. 
Miss Annie M. Mahan, 

- Mrs. Belle H. Perkins, 
Mrs. M. p. Hart, 

- Mrs. E. V. McConnell, - 
Mrs. Sallie S. Gotten, 



104 
105 
105 
106 
106 
106 
107 
107 



2l6 



CONTENTS. 



White Com Meal Cakes for 

Breakfast, 
Com Griddle Cakes or Old 

Virginia Slap Jacks, 
Fried Mush, - - - - 
Superior Waffles, 

exican Enchiladas, 



Tomato Conserve, - 
Orange Marmalade, - 
Compote of ij.pples. 
Steamed Peaches, 
Quince Preserves, - 
Watermelon Preserves, 
Blackberry Jam, 
Canned Spiced Blackberries, 
Spiced Green Grapes, 
Orange Jelly, 
Currant Jelly, 
Crab Apple Jelly, 



Mrs. Sarah S. C. Angell, 

Miss Lily Irene Jackson, - 
Mrs. George Hoxworth, 
Mrs. Mary B. P. Black, - 
Mrs. Franc Luse Albright, 

Preserves. 

Mrs. Caroline E. Dennis, 
Mrs. Governor Oglesby, - 
Mrs. Hattie E. Sladden, 
Mrs. W. Newton Linch, - 
Mrs. M. p. Hart, - 
Mrs. H. K. Ingram, - 
Mrs. Mary S. McNeal, - 
Mrs. H. J. Peto, 
Mrs. George A. Mumford, - 
Mrs. Theresa J. Cochran, 
Mrs. M. p. H. Beeson, - 
Mrs. Genevieve M. Guthrie, 



Pickled Onions, 
Oil Pickles, 
Mixed Pickles, 
Cucumber Pickles, 
Green Cucumber Pickle, 
Ripe Cucumber Pickle, 
Gooseberry Catsup, 
CabbAge Pickle, 
Picalilly, 

Sweet Pickled Peaches, 
Chow-Chow Pickles, 
Mustard Chow-Chow, 
Chow-Chow, - 



Cheese Fonda, 
Cheese Sticks, 



Pickles and Catsup. 

- Mrs. Harriet A. Lucas, 
Mrs. Ida M. Ball, 

- Mrs. Sam. S. Fifield, 
Mrs. Parthenia P. Rue, - 

- Mrs. Cora Payne Jackson, - 
Miss Mary Elliott McCandless, 

- Mrs. Amey M. Starkweather, 
Mrs. Carrington Mason, - 

- Mrs. Ella Ray Miller, 
Mrs. Nellie B. Plumer, - 

- Mrs. H. K. Ingram, 

Mrs. Alice B. Castleman, 

- Miss Mary Elliott McCandless, 

Cheese. 

- Miss Hattie T. Hundley, 
Mrs. Margaret M. Ratcliffe, - 



PAGE 

io8 

io8 
109 
109 
no 



III 
III 
112 
112 

"3 

113 
114 

114 

115 

"5 
116 

116 



118 
118 
119 
119 
120 
121 
121 
122 
122 
123 
123 
124 
125 

126 
126 



CONTENTS. 



217 



Lemon Pie, - 
Ideal Lemon Pie, 
Lemon Pie, - 
Lemon Pie, 
Pumpkin Pie, 
Apple Custard Pie, 
Cream Pie, 
Cream Pie, 
Apple Pie, 
Pie Crust, - 
Mince Meat, - 
Mince Meat, 



Graham Christmas Pudding, 

Graham Pudding, 

Lady Ross PMg Pudding, 

Alexandre Pudding, - 

Plum Pudding, 

English Plum Pudding, 

English Plum Pudding, - 

Vegetable Plum Pudding, - 

Plum Pudding, 

Christmas Plum Pudding, - 

Cherry Pudding, 

Bread and Butter Pudding, 

Delicate Indian Pudding, 

Baked Indian Pudding, 

Prune Roll, 

Prune Pudding, - 

Prune Pudding, 

Prune Pudding, - 

Bread Pudding, 

Chocolate Pudding, - 

Danish Pudding, - 

Delicious Pudding, 

Suet Pudding, 

Suet Pudding, - - - 



PAGE 

Pies. 

Mrs. L. M. N. Stevens, - - - 127 

Mrs. Ida L. Turner, - - . 127 

Mrs. Virginia C. Meredith, - - 128 

Miss Lucia B. Perea, - - 129 

Mrs. Frances C. Holley, - - 129 

Mrs. Annie L. Y. Orff, - - 130 

Mrs. M. R. Lee, - - - - 130 

Mrs. Louise Campbell, - - 130 

Mrs. Alice Vineyard Brown, - 131 

Mrs. Annie L. Y. Orff, - - 132 

Mrs. Marcia Louise Gould, - - 132 

Mrs. Laura P. Coleman, - - 133 

Pudding. 

Mrs. Rollin A. Edgerton, - . - 134 

Mrs. George A. Mumford, - 135 

Mrs. Wm. P. Lynde, - - - 135 

Mrs. M. D. Thatcher, - - 136 

Mrs. Florence H. Kidder, - - 136 

Mrs. Phcebe M. Hartpence, - 137 

Mrs. S. W. McLaughlin, - - 138 

Miss Mary E. Busselle, - - 138 

Mrs. Helen C. Brayton, - - 138 

Mrs. Alice J. Whalen, - - 139 

Mrs. Louise L. Barton, - - 140 

Mrs. Nancy Huston Banks, - 140 

Mrs. S. W. McLaughlin, - - 141 

Mrs. Mariam D. Cooper, - - 141 

Mrs. Clark Waring, - - - 141 

Mrs. Hattie E. Sladden, - 142 

Mrs. Mary S. McNeal, - - - 142 

Mrs. John R. Wilson, - - 143 

Mrs. Kate Canthon McDaniel, - 143 

Miss Mary B. Hancock, - - 143 

Miss Mary B. Hancock, - - 144 
Mrs. Elizabeth C. Langworthy, 144 

Mrs. Helen M. Barker, - - 145 

Mrs. Leander Stone, - - 145 



2l8 



CONTENTS, 



Queen Pudding, - - - Mrs. 

Steam Pudding, - - Mrs. 

Steam Pudding, - - - Mrs. 
Baked Huckleberry Pudding, Mrs. 

Minnie^s Lemon Pudding, - Mrs. 

Cup Pudding, - - - Mrs. 

Italian Roll, - - - . Mrs. 

Chaperone Pudding, - - Mrs. 

Apple Pudding, - - - Mrs. 

Baked Apple Dumpling, - Mrs. 

Foam Sauce, - - - - Mrs. 



L. C. Gillespie, 
John S. Briggs, - 
Clara L. McAdow, 
Nellie B. Plumer, 
H. J. Peto, - 
Marie J. Gaston, 
F. H. Daniell, 
Annie L. Y. Orff, 
Ida L. Turner, 
Schuyler Colfax, 
Carrington Mason, 



PAGE 

145 

146 

147 
147 

147 

148 

149 
149 

ISO 
150 

151 



Sponge Cake, - - . 

Sponge Cake, - - - 
Spon^ Cake, 

North Dakota Sponge Cake, 
Chaperone Sponge Cake, 
New Engl'd Raised Loaf Cake, 
French Loaf Cake, - - - 
Grandmother's Bread Cake, 
Old Virginia Bread Cake, 
Bread Cake, - - - 
Corn Starch Cake, - - - 
Exposition Orange Cake, - 
Orange Cake, 

Angel Food, - - - 
Angel Cake, - - - - 
Sunshine Cake, - - - 
Election Cake, - - - 
Connecticut Election Cake, 
Almond Cream Cake, 
Velvet Cake, - - - 
Caramel Cake, 
A Caramel Cake, 
Roll Jelly Cake, ' - 
Chocolate Cake, 
Georgie's Cake, 
Chess Cake, - - - 



Cake. 

Mrs. Isabella Beecher Hooker, 152 

Mrs. Martha A. Griggs, - - 153 

Mrs. Marie J. Gaston, - - - 153 

Mrs. Alice Vineyard Brown, - 153 

Mrs. Annie L. Y. Orff, - - 154 

Miss Frances S. Ives, - - 155 

Mrs. Martha A. Griggs, - - 155 

Mrs. Mary C. Bell, - - - 156 

Mrs. Katherine S. G. Paul, - 156 

Mrs. Clara L. McAdow, - - 157 

Mrs. Clara L. McAdow, - - iS7 

Mrs. S. E. Verdenal, - - 157 

Mrs. Frances Welles Shepard, - 158 

Mrs. Mary C. Harrison, - - 159 

Mrs. Daniel Hall, - - - 159 

Mrs. Daniel Hall, - - - 159 

Mrs. Helen C. Brayton, - - 160 

Mrs. Virginia T. Smith, - - 160 

Mrs. Flora Beall Ginty, - - 161 

Mrs. Sallie S. Gotten, - - 162 

Mrs. James R. Doolittle, Jr., - 162 

Mrs. Franc Luse Albright, - 163 

Mrs. Flora Beall Ginty, - - 164 

Mrs. Ralph Trautmann, - - 164 

Mrs. Clark Waring, - - - 164 

Mrs. Carrington Mason, - - 165 





CONTENTS. 


219 






PAGE 


Fruitcake, - 


- Mrs. a. K. Delaney, 


- 165 


English Fruit Cake, - 


Mrs. Phcebe M. Hartpence, 


166 


Fruitcake, - 


- Mrs. M. p. H. Beeson,| - 


- 167 


Fruit Cake, - - ^ 


Mrs. Hester A. Hanback, 


167 


Sally White Cake, - 


- Mrs. Florence H. Kidder, - 


- 168 


Delicate Cake, - 


Mrs. John A. Logan, 


168 


Delicate Cake, 


- Mrs. Harriet T. Upton, 


- 169 


White Cake, 


Mrs. Governor John M. Stone, 


169 


Walnut Cake, 


- Mrs. Frances C. Holley, 


- 170 


Nut Cake, - - - - 


Miss Josephine Shakspeare, - 


170 


Nut Cake, 


- Mrs. Minna G. Hooker, 


- 171 


Nut Cake, - - - - 


Mrs. Alice Houghton, 


171 


Pecan Cake, - - - 


- Mrs. Russell B. Harrison, - 


- 171 


Cake Made with Cream, - 


Mrs. Sarah H. Bixby, 


172 


Cream Frosting, 


- Mrs. Mary Payton, 


- 172 


Almond Icing, - 


Mrs. Lana A. Bates, 


173 


Soft Gingerbread, - 


- Mrs. Ida M. Ball, 


- 173 


Columbian Ginger Cake, - 


Mrs. S. E. Verdenal, 


174 


Gingerbread, - 


- Mrs. Sam. S. Fifield, - 


- 174 


Soft Gingerbread, 


Mrs Mary R. Kinder, 


174 


Loaf Ginger Cake, 


- Mrs. a. K. Delaney, - 
Cookies. 


- 175 


Hermits or Fruit Cookies, 


- Mrs. Susan G. Cooke, - 


- 176 


Cookies, . - - - 


Miss Lily Irene Jackson, 


176 


" Corinita " Cookies, 


- Miss Lucia B. Perea, - 


- 177 


Cookies, ... - 


Mrs. Robt. B. Mitchell, - 


177 


Ginger Cookies, 


- Mrs. Clara L. McAdow, 


- 177 


Ginger Snaps, - - - 


Mrs. Sam. S. Fifield, 


178 


French Jumbles, 


- Mrs. E. S. Thompson, - 


. 178 


Sand Tarts, 


Miss Eloise L. Roman, 


178 


Lady Fingers, 


- Mrs. M. D. Owings, 
Desserts. 


179 


Pineapple Sponge, 


- Mrs. Matilda B. Carse, 


- 180 


Pineapple Souffle, 


Mrs. James R. Deane, 


180 


Peach Sponge, 


- Mrs. Joseph C. Straughan, - 


- 181 


Hamburg Cream, 


Mrs. Ida M. Ball, 


182 


Chocolat Mouss^, - 


- Miss Josephine Shakspeare, 


- 182 



220 



CONTENTS. 







PAGE 


Chocolat Souffle, 


Mrs. Alice Houghton, 


182 


Chocolat Meringue, 


- Mrs. Katherine S. G. Paul, 


183 


Bavarian Cream, 


Mrs. Alice J. Whalen, 


183 


Gelatine Cream, 


- Miss Mary ELLiorr McCandless, 


184 


Nob Hill Pudding, - 


Miss Lida M. Russell, 


185 


Apple Charlotte, - 


- Mrs. John A. Logan, 


185 


Charlotte de Russe, - 


Mrs. Charles Price, 


185 


Charlotte Russe, 


- Mrs. Marcia Louise Gould, 


186 


Charlotte Russe, 


Mrs. Susan W. Ball, 


187 


Charlotte Russe, - 


- Mrs. George W. Lamar, 


187 


Strawberry Blanc Mange, - 


Mrs. Benedette B. Tobin, 


188 


Snow Pudding, 


- Mrs. Susan G. Cooke, - 


188 


Wine or Gelatine Jelly, 


Mrs. Carrington Mason, - 


189 


Fruit Jelly, - 


- Miss Wilhelmine Reitz, 


189 


A Dainty Dessert, 


Mrs. Solomon Thatcher, Jr., - 


190 


Tamales de Dulce, 


- Sei^ora Don Manuel Chaves, 


190 


A Cheap Dessert, 


Mrs. Kate Canthon McDaniel, 


191 


Bananas in Jelly, - 


- Mrs. Governor Rickards, - 


191 


Almond Blanc Mange, 


Mrs. Benedette B. Tobin, 


192 


Floating Island, 


- Mrs. Rosine Ryan, 


193 


Boiled Custard, - 


Mrs. Charles J. McClung, 


193 


Snow Balls, - 


- Mrs. Nancy Huston Banks, - 


194 


Lemon Custard, 


Mrs. Ida M. Ball, 
Ice Cream. 


194 


Fruit Cream, - 


- Mrs. H. F. Brown, 


195 


Caramel Ice Cream, - 


Mrs. Lily Rosecrans Toole, - 


195 


Tutti Frutti Ice Cream, - 


- Mrs. J. Montgomery Smith, - 


196 


Vrnilla Ice Cream, - 


Mrs. Mary C. Harrison, - 


196 


Maraschino Ice Cream, - 


- Miss Mary Elliott McCandless, 
Candy. 


196 


Chocolate Caramels, 


- Mrs. Carrington Mason, 


198 


Fudges, - - - - 


Mrs. J. Montgomery Smith, 


198 


Cream Candy, 


- Mrs. Mary Payton, 
Punch. 


199 


Romaine, 


- Mrs. Potter Palmer, - 


200 


Roman Punch, - 


Mrs. John R. Wilson, 


201 



CONTENTS. 



221 



Kirsch Punch, 
Apricot Sorbet, - 
Pineapple Sherbet, 
Orange Water Ice, 
Orange Frappde, 



Egg Nogg, - 

Our Grandmother's Syllabub, 

Claret Punch, 

Beef Tea for Children, 



PAGE 

Carrie V. Shuman, - - - 201 
Mrs. M. D. Owings, - - - 201 
Mrs. Governor Edwin C. Burleigh, 202 
Mrs. Theo. F. Armstrong, - 202 
Miss Annie M. Mahan, - - . 203 



Lobster a la Newburg, - 
Omelet, ... - 
Welsh Rarebit, 
Shrimp k la Newburg, 
Chicken with Currie, 
Fresh Mushrooms k la Crfeme, 
Mock Terrapin, 



Beverages. 

Mrs. W. W. Kimball, - 
Mrs. Sarah S. C. Angell, 

- Mrs. Frona Eunice Wait, - 
Mrs. Ida M. Ball, 

Chafing Dish. 

- Miss Mary Crease Sears, 
Mrs. Mary S. Lockwood, - 

- Mrs. Col. James A. Mulligan, 
Mrs.. Harriet T. Upton, - 

- Mrs. I. L. Requa, - - • - 
Mrs. Francis B. Clarke, - 



204 
204 
205 
205 



207 
207 
208 
208 
209 
269 



Mrs. Margaret Blaine Salisbury, 210 



FAVORITE DISHES 



Copies of this Book Sold by all Booksellers, or can be 
Purchased Direct by Addressing 

9 

COLUMBIAN AUTOGRAPH COOKERY BOOK 

« 

901 OWINGS BUILDING 

CHICAGO 



Cloth Edition $i 50 

Author's Edition, Limited, Silk Binding 3 00 




Madteliitaly 




