
/ ^^. 



' THE HOUSEKEEPER 




. . . AND ... 

f armors' ^om^a^nion , 

, . . OR . . . 

MUCH VALUABLE INFORMATION 

FOR EVERY DAY USE, 

Giv^n bv Friends and Collected Through Various 
Other Sources, 

. . . BY . . . 
OF WASHINGTON, GA, 



s=>x^oaE3 o::bT:E 2Dox-a:-ua.:R. . A 



% 



THE HOUSE-KEBPER, 



AND- 



Farmer's Companion, 



OR, 



Much Useful Information for Evert/ Day Use, Given by Friends 
and CoUeGfed Through Various Other Sources, 



OFC. 



> ■ > BY A>^ CO*^R<6.. "^NX 

q" . L^ JUL 2 \m ] 

J. D. HEARD, r7732-y 



of Washington, Ga. 



X 



Entered according to Act of Congress in the year 1893, by 

J, D. HEARD, 

In the office of the Librarian at Wasliington, D. C. 



— 3- 



INTRODUCTORY. 

The title of this Uttle book, "The House-keeper and Farmers 
Companion; or Much Useful Information for Every Day Use," as 
indicated on the title page will show ihe reader, after a careful pe- 
rusal of its pages, that not only much valuable information, but a 
lasting benefit, may be derived. It is nut the book that contains 
the most recipes that is the most useful to a person; but the one 
that contains the most practical recipes. We have made this sub- 
ject a study for a long while, and have spared neither time nor 
expense in its preparation. For instance, the recipe for canning 
fruit in open top jars, gave us no little trouble in getting the cor- 
rect formula. After getting all the light we could on this subject 
through many sources, we sent to Philadelphia and purchased a 
five dollar book, whose title is, ''A practical Treatise on the Manu- 
f act; re of Vinegar, Cider, Fruit-wines and the Canning" and Evap- 
oration of Fruits, &c." which gave us much information. In ad- 
dition to this book we have a full set of Chamber's Encyclopaedia, 
ten volumes, from which we have gained a great deal of informa- 
tion in the last seven or eight years, especially on the subject of 
different kinds of acids. 

We also have three large, useful recipe books aggregating 
nineteen hundred and fifty pages, said to contain over one million 
recipes, calculations, &c. - '-'' 

We also gave five dollars for one recipe that of making twenty 
gallons of wine with one bushel of blackberries, or one bushel of 
any other fruit from which wine is usually made. 

We have given this recipe a thorough test by making fifteen 



gallons of blackberry and thirty gallons of grape wine, and all who 
have drank of this wine pronounce it a splendid article. The cost 
of the ingredients, except the sugar and berries, is only fifty cents 
for making the twenty gallons, and this one article, which is used, 
is of a vegetable and healthy nature. These one hundred and 
sixty miscellaneous recipes are not put down in alphabetical order 
but just as we copied them down in our note book, as we gathered 
them from our friends and other sources, some of which have never 
before appeared in print, and some of which have been collected 
from the best of works treating on this subject. 

Our aim has been to include all the very best, most useful and 
valuable recipes. 

In the performance of the task of collecting these i6o recipes, 
our chief aim was to render this book as extensively useful as 
possible; and we confidently believe it will be a source of comfort 
and usefulness to the farmer, mechanic, merchant, tradesman and 
professional man, as well as the heads of families and their chil- 
dren. And we also believe that there are few persons who will 
not find on looking over its contents, some article that will be use- 
ful and interesting to them. The recipes are so simple and plain 
that he who reads can understand. 

We can refer the reader to at least sixty of these re- 
cipes beginning at No. loi, and all the others follow- 
ing up to No. 1 60, as being all we claim for them in 
this book. 

The greater number of the 60 recipes have nevt;r before appeared 
in print, and should you try half a dozen of them, including the rais-^ 
ing of strawberries without cultivation, shrinking tires, the twenty 
gallons of wine, blackberry cordial, cure for boils, carbuncles and 
bonefelons, and how to keep mites out of hen houses, and find 
them to be worthless, we will refund your money and take the 
book back. J\ D. Heard. 



FAMILY RIGHT. 

The following is an agreement between the pur- 
chaser and author of this book. 

We the undersigned do hereby sincerely agree not 
to reveal any of the contents of this book to any one 
outside of this our immediate household; nor will we 
let any one of our household read it, except those who 
may sign the above agreement. We also agree to 
keep this book in some private secret place when not 
in use. 

We agree to use every precaution to faithfully carry 
out the above stipulations. 



— 6- 

AFFIDAVITS. 
GEORGIA— Hall County: 

Personally comes before me A. Rudolph, Ordinary of said coun- 
ty, J. D. Heard and M. C. Buffington, who on oath say that the 
said J. D. Heard did make fifteen gallons of good wine from three 
pecks of blackberries in the year 1893. 

Personally, comes before me A. Rudolph ordinary of said coun- 
ty, J. D. Heard and J. C. Browning who on oath say that said J. 
D Heard did in the year 1893 make thirty gallons of good wine 
from one and a half bushels of grapes Sworn and subscribed to 
before me, this the iilh day of January, 1894. J. D. Heard 

A. Rudolph, ) M. C. Buffington, 

Ordinary, j' J. C. Browning. 

We the undersigned do certify that the above named gentle- 
men J. D. Heard, M. C. Buffington, J. C. Browning are citizens of 
Hall county and are men of integrity and veracity. 

A. R. Smith, 
J. R. Boone, Clerk Superior Court, Hall Co. Ga. 

Treas. Hall Co. Ga. A. D. Candler, 

Ex-Member Congress. 

We, the uudersigned citizens of Wilkes county Ga , have known 
Mr. J. D. Heard (once a citizen of Hall county Ga.,) for twenty >'ears 
and lie is a man of integrity and honor. He has had peculiar advan- 
tages for collecting material for his book, "The House Keeper and 
Farmers Companion," and liis recipes are from the best sources: 

J. Q,. Adams Washington, Ga. 

J. S. Barnett, County Judge Wilkes Co " '' 

A. A. Barnett, Clerk Superior Court Wilkes Co.... " " 

W. T. Anderson, Treasurer Wilkes Co " " 

J- W. Callaway, Sheriff Wilkes Co " 

J. W. Binns, Ordinary WilKes Co " " 

S.H.Hardeman, Attorney at Law " " 

B. S. Irviu, " " " " " 

AV. M Sims " " " " " 

H. P Qui n, Merchant " " 

T.M.Green, " " " 

E. G. Binns, " " " 

Tiieo Kramer, " " " 

B. F. Barksdale, Farmer " " 

E.S.Johns, " " '' 

W. B. Norman, Merchant Tio-nall, " 

J. A. Moss, " •' 

J. H. Fortson, Ordained Minister Hyd*^, Wilkes Co , " 

W. T. E. Jones, Tax Reciever Wilkes Co DanburL^, " 



INDEX. 

No. 

How to Can Green Corn 1 

Coffee for Pound Packages : 2 

How to Imitate Maccaboy SnufF. 3 

To Keep Meat Fresh a week or two in summer 4 

To Make Chicago Ice Cream 5 

To Make a Substitute for Cream , 6 

To Make Ginger Beer 7 

To Make Cider for Bottling h 

To Make Cheap Cider 9 

To Improve the Flavor of Beer 10 

To Make a Good Table Beer 11 

To Make Portable Lemonade 12 

To INIake Imperial Cream Nectar 13 

To Make Royal Pop 14 

A Cement for Rubber or Leather Soles or Leather Belting 15 

To Clean Old Marble 16 

Another Way to Clean Old Marble 17 

To Paint on Glass 18 

To Make Hard-drying Paint 19 

To Make Black Walnut Stain 20 

How to Make Chicken Pie 21 

How to Save your Ice Bill 22 

Formula for Mustang Liniment 23 

Home-made Guano of unequalled excellence 24 

!?20.00 Worth of Manure for almost nothing 25 

To Double the Amount of your Manure..... 26 

Substitute for Barn Manure 27 

Death to Vermin on Plants and Animals 28 

To Preserve Potatoes from Rot 29 

Packing Fruit for Long Distances 30 

Oat and Wheat Straw equal to Hav 31 

To Keep Milk Sweet and Sweeten Sour Milk 32 

To Make Cheap and Good Vinegar 33 

To Improve the Color of Stains 34 

A Substitute for Fire Clay for boilers and furnaces 35 

Much Butter from Little Milk 30 

Composition for Driving out Rats '. 37 

To tell age of Hordes by their teeth 38 

Another Cheap Fertilizer ,39 

Hens made to protect Bees 40 

To Make Posts proof against Rot 41 

A Splendid Washing Fluid 42 

To Make Soothing S\ rup 43 



A Remedy for Consumption 44 

To Make Ayer's Cherry^ Pectoral 45 

To Make Ayer's Sarsaparilla • 46 

To Extract Teeth with little or no Pain 47 

To Make Cabbage Pickle 48 

To Make Bread with Irish Potato Yeast 49 

To Make Irish Potato Yeast 50 

To Make Sweet Potato Yeast 51 

A Good Remedy for Corns and Warts 52 

A Good Cough Sj^rup 53 

Remedy for Cold in the Head 54 

Remedy for Erysipelas 55 

To Cure Warts and Corns in ten minutes 5f> 

Remedy for Weak Back 57 

Good Remedy for Sprained Ankles 58 

How to Stop' Spitting of Blood 59 

Tea strongly recommended for Cancer Cure 60 

To Make Excellent Vinegar cheap 61 

Good Soap without Lye or Grease 62 

To Make Unfermented Wine 68 

Mode for Planting Wheat ^aid to increase its yield 100 per cent. 64 

To Make White Wine Vinegar 65 

Cure for Swinney in Horses 66 

To Make Raspberry and Blackberry Jam 67 

To Bottle Soda Water without a machine 68 

Momion's Cure for Cancer 69 

To Make Fire-proof Wash for Shingles 70 

Fly Paper to Ivill Flies 71 

To Make an Excellent Tooth-wash to remove blackness 72 

A Magnetic Pain-killer for tooth-ache and acute pains 7.S 

A Number-one Razor-Strop Paste 74 

To Make a Good Freckle Cure 75 

To Make Phalon's Instantaneous Hair Dye No. 1 76 

To Make Barber's Shampoo Mixture 77 

To Make Balm of a Thousand Flowers 78 

To Make New York Barber's Star Hair Oil 79 

To Make a certain Cure for Croup 81) 

To Make Oyster Soup 81 

To Make a Nice Beverage, Known as Old Man's Milk 82 

How to Make Perfect Love 88 

Another Cure for Burns and Scalds 84 

Preventing Diseases among Hogs and Fowls 85 

How to Keep Flies from Fresh Meat in smoke-houses 86 

Another Remedy to get rid of Mites 87 

One more Good Remedy to Keep Mites off of walls of hen houses 88 

Another good way to rid a house of Rats...... 89 

To Make Hop Beer very fine 90 

Railroad Cake 91 

To Make Plain Buns 92 



— 9— 

An Excellent Soft Ginger Cake ^ 93 

To Make Pickled Onions 94 

To Make Pickled Cucumbers 95 

To Make Sweet Pickle 98 

Quite a Novel Remedy for Rheumatism 9/ 

Process for Tanning Calf, Kip or Harness Leather iri from 6 

to SO days ^f^ 

Powerful Cement for Broken Marble 99 

To Take Care of Steam Gauges 100 



IVe vouch f 07' the following sixty recipes: 



101 
102 



Remedy for Erysipelas No. 1 • 

Remedy for Erysipelas No. 2 

A Sure Way to Exterminate Rats 108 

To Cure ancl Prevent Sore Eyes 104 

Blackberry Cordial for Summer Complaint 1(^ 

To Make Genuine Seidlitz Powder^ 106 

A Splendid Salve for Boils, Carbuncles, &c 107 

Sure Cure for Boils, Carbuncles, &c 108 

To Keep Mites out of Hen-houses 109 

How to Case-harden Iron HO 

Substitute for Coffee Ill 

To Make Ice Cream 112 

Cider without Apples 113 

To Make another Good Cider 114 

Excellent Remedy for Sore Throat Ho 

To Prevent Swelling from Bruises 116 

A Cure for Burns and Scalds 117 

My Favorite Soup for Sick Folks 118 

To M:ike Svllabub 119 

Another Way to Make Syllabub 120 

Good Black Ink at Ten Cents per Gallon 121 

A Splendid Cheap Black-board 122 

A Cure for Dvsentery 123 

To Cure Old Sores 124 

To Cure Sore Throat 1^ 

A Cure for Piles 126 

A Cui'e for Bonefelons • 12' 

A Cure for Colic 128 

An Abundance of Strawberries without Cultivation 129 

A Sovereign Remedy for Rheumatism 130 

A Sure Cure for Poison Oak 131 



—10— 

To Keep Fruit without Air-tight Cans 132 

To Make Chili Sauce 133 

To Make Tomato Soup 134 

To Make Lemon Butter 13^5 

To Make Caromel Cake 136 

To Make Lemon Jelly 137 

How to Fry Chicken 138 

Simple and Certain Cure for Diarrhoea 139 

Best Known Remedy for Constipation.... 140 

To Prevent Cholera among Hogs and Fowls 141 

To Make Milk Yeast Light Bread '. 142 

To Make Peanut Candy Bars 143 

To Make Cocoanut Bars 144 

To Make Pop-corn Balls No. 1 145 

To Make Pop-corn Balls No. 2 146 

To Make old field Pine Posts last many years 147 

To Malie 20 Gallons of AVine from one Bushel of Fruit 148 

To Shrink Buggy Tires without a Blacksmith 149 

Remedy for Sorehead among Fowls 150 

To Shrink Wagon and Buggy Tires without a Blacksmith 151 

To ]VIake Cider at any season of the 3'ear that sells readily at 

five cents a glass' 152 

To Prevent Young Trees from Dying 153 

Best Way to Give a Horse Medicine 154 

To Make a Brilliant White- wash with Lime 155 

Tempering Springs for Guns and other Implements.. 156 

To Prevent Rabbits and Insects from Injuring Fruit Trees 157 

An Abundance of Fat Lightwood from old field pines 158 

To Temper Mill Picks 159 

A IvTever Failing Remedy for Horse Colic 160 



No. 1-HOW TO CAN GREf:N CORX. 

Dissolve 2^ ounces tartaric acid in one pint boiling water in a 
stone vessel, and use one tea^sponful to every pint of corn while the 
corn is at boiling heat. Also take an ounce of salicylic acid, dissolve 
it in a pint of ruin, rinse out with this liquor the jars in which the 
boiled corn is to be put. Then put the boiled corn in the jars and add. 
in one teaspoonful of this liquor to every gallon of corn. Then soak 
a piece of good brown paper in this liquor and place it over the top of 
the jar. Then ]jlace two more thicKnesses of common newspaper, 
pull the edge of the paper down and tie a string tightly around the 
neck of the jar. When opened for use, add one teaspoonful of soda to 
each gallon jar. 

No. 2— TO PREPARE C'OPFEE FOJi POUND PACKAGES. 

Take best Java coffee one pound, two pounds of rye. ("arefully 
cUan the rye from all l)ad grains, wasli to remove dust, drain off the 
water and put the grain intf) your roaster carefully stirring to brown it 
evenly. Brown the rye and coffee separately, then grind separately 
and mix well together, and put up in tight packages to preserve the 
aroma. 

No. 8— HOW TO IMITATE MACCABOY SNUFF. 

Moisten the tobacco with an equal quantity of water and Cuba 
molasses, then dry the tobacco thoroughly in the sun or a low tem- 
perature of heat in an oven. Then pound or grind the tobacco as fine 
as flour and it is ready for use. The tobacco should remain in the so- 
lution until it undergoes a flrmentation. 

No. 4— TO KEEP MEAT FRESH. 

To keep meat fresh a vveek or two in summer. Farmers or others 
living at a distance fjom butchers (an keep fresh meat very nicely 
for a week or two by putting it into sour milk or butter milW, placing 
it in a cool cellar. The bone nor fat need not be removed Rinse 
well when used. 

No. 5— TO MAKE CHICAGO ICE CREAM. 

Irish moss soaked in warm water one hour and rinsed well to cleanse 
it of sand and a certain foreign taste; th'^n steep it in milk, kt eping it 
just at tiie point of boiling or simmering for one hour until a rich yel- 
low color is given to the milk, without cream or eggs. From one toone 
and a half ounces to a gallon only is necessary, and this will do to 
steep twice. Sweeten and flavor like other crt'ams. 



—12— 
No. 6— A SUBSTITUTE FOR CREAM. 
Take two or three whole eg^, beat them well up in a basin, then 

Four boiling hot tea over them, pour gradually to prevent curdling, 
t is difficult for the taste to distinguish it from rich cream. 

No. 7— TO MAKE GINGER BEER, 

Take water five and a half gallons, take bruiseii ginger root three- 
fourths pound, 1-2 ounce tartaric acid, two and half pounds white su- 
gar, whites of three eggs well beaten, ten small tei^spoonfuls of essence 
lemon; yeast, one gill; boil the root lor thi.rty minutes in one gallon of 
the water; strain off and put the essence in wliile hot; mix, make 
over night- in the morning skim and bottle, keeping out the sediments. 

No 8— HOW TO MAKE CIDER FOR BOTTLING. 

Put in a barrel five gallons hot water thirt3^ pounds common sugar, 
tartaric acid 3-4 i^ounds, cold water 2.5 gallons, 3 pints of hop or brew- 
ei-s yeast worked int-o paste with one pint of water and one pound of 
flour. Let it work in the barrel 48 hours, the yeast running out of 
the bunghole all the time, putting in a little sweetened water occa- 
sionally to keep it full; then bottle, putting in two or three broken 
raisins to each bottle, and it will nearly equal champagne. 

No. 9— HOW TO MAKE A CHEAP CIDER 
Put five gallons hot water in a cask; brown sugar 15 pounds, mo- 
lasses one gallon, hop or brewers yeast half a gallon, good vinegar 6 
quarts, stir well, add 25 gallons cold water, ferment as the last. 

No. 10— HOW TO IMPROVE THE FLAVOR OF BEER. 
Take one ounce bruised ginger, half ounce bruised cloves, a few 
scalded hops and a dozen broken coarse biscuits to ever^^ two tmrrels. 
Rummage well. 

No. 11— A GOOD TABLE BEER. 

Take 8 bushels of malt, 7 pounds of hops, 25 jwunds of molasses, 
brew for 10 barrels, smaller quantities in proportion. 

No. 12— HOW TO MAKE PORTABLE LEMONADE. 
Tartaric acid one ounce, white sugar 2 pounds, essence of lemon 
quarter ounce, powder and keep dry for use. One dessert spoonful 
will make a glass of lemonade. 

No. 13— IMPERIAL CREAM NECTAR. 

Part First. Take one gallon of water, loaf sugar 6 pounds, tartaric 
acid six ouncesj gumarabic 1 oz. Part Second. Flour 4 teaspoonfuls, 
the whites of four eggs, beat finely together, then add i pint of wa- 
ter When the first part is blood warm put in the second,boil 3 min- 
utes and it is done. Directions: Three tablespoonfuls of syrup te 
two-thirds of a glass of water, add one-third teaspoonful of carbonate 
of soda, made fine; stir well and drink at your leisure. 



—13— 
Xo. 14— ROYAL POP. 

Take crtani tartar 1 pound, ginger 1^ oz., white sugar 7 pounds, 
essence of lemon 1 dram, water 6 gallons, 3'east I pint. Tie the corks 
down. 

No. 15— A CEMENT FOR LEATHER &c. 

A cement for leather or rubber soles and leather belting: Take 
gutta percha, one pound; India rubl:>er, four ounces; pitch, two ounces; 
shellac, one ounce; oil, two ounces; melt and use hot. 

Xo. 16— TO CLEAN OLD MARBLK 
Take a bullock's gall, one gill soap lees, half a gill of turpentine; 
make into a paste with pipe clay, apply it to the marble; let it dry a 
day or two, and then rub it off, and it will apixiar equal to new. If 
very dirty, repeat the application. 

No. 17— ANOTHER WAY TO CLEAN OLD MARBLE. 
Take two parts common soda, one part pumice stone; and one part 
of finely powdered chalk. vSift it through a tine sieve and mix it with 
water; then rub it well all over the marble and the stain will be re- 
moved. Then wash the marble with soap and water and it will be as 
clean as it was at tirst. 

No. 18— TO PAINT ON GLASS. 
Take clear rosin, one ounce; melt in an iron vessel. When all ie 
nielted, let it cool a little but not harden; then add oil of turpentine 
sufficient to keep in a liquid state. AVhen cold, use it with colors 
ground in oil. 

No. 19— TO :MAIvE hard DRYING PAINT. 
Grind Venetian red, or any other color 3'ou wish, in boiled oil; then 
thin it with black Japan. It will dry very hard for counter toi)s &c. 

No. 20— TO MAKE BLACK WALNUT STAIN. 

Spirits of turpentine, onegiillon; pulverized asphaltum, two pounds; 
dissolve in an iron or a stone kettle, stirring constantly. Can be used 
over a red staia to imitate rosewood. To make a perfect black add a 
little lampblack. The addition of a little varnish with the turpen- 
tine improves it. 

No. 21— HOW^ TO MAKE CHICKEN PIE. 

Take one pair of good young chickens, cut in small pieces, season 
with pepper and salt and small strips salt pork, put in sauce pan with 
water to cover it, boil for half hour, add flour afid butter to thicken 
the gra\^', have ready a large dish, serve with paste, put all in a dish 
c(^vered with a good rich paste, bake for half hour. 

No. 22— HOW TO SAVE YOUR ICE BILL. 
Get a quantity of empty barrels or boxes during the coldest time in 
the winter, and put a few inches of water in each; the evening 
when the- cold is most intense is the best time to do this. After the 



-14— 

water is frozen solid, repeat the process until the barrels 
are full of solid ice; then roll them into your cellar, cover them up 
with plenty of saw dust or straw, and your ice crop is safely harvested. 

No 23— FORMULA FOR MUSTANG LINIMENT. 
Petroleum, olive oil and carbonate of ammonia, each etiual parts, 
and mix. » 

Xo. 24— HOME MADE GUANO OF UNEQUALLED EXCEL- 
LENCE. 

Save all your fowl manure from sun and rain. To prepare it for 
use, spread a layer of dry swamp muck (the blacker it is the better) 
on your barn floor, and dum]) on it the whole of your fowl manure; 
beat it into fine powder witli the ))ack of your spade; this done, add 
hard wood ashes and plaster of Paris, so that the compound shall be 
composed of the followino; proportions: Dried muck, 4 bushels; fowl 
manure, 2 bushels; ashes, 1 bushel; plaster, 1] bushels; mix thorough- 
ly, and spare no labor; for in tliis matter, the elbow grease expended 
will be well paid for, A little before planting moisten the heap with 
water, or, better still Mith urine, cover well over with mats, and let it 
he till wanted for use: apply it to beans, corn, or potatoes, at the ra- 
tio of a handful to a hill; aud mix with the soil before dropping the 
seed. ThiB will be found the best substitute for guano ever invented ana 
may be depended on for bringing great crops of turnips; corn, j)ota- 
toes, &c. 

No. 25— $20.00 WORTH OF MANURE FOR AL:M0RT NOTHING. 

If you have any dead animals, say for instance, the body of aliorse, 
do not suffer it to pollute the atmosphere by drawing it away to the 
woods or any other out of the way place; but remove it a short dis- 
tance only from your premises and put down 4 or 5 loads of muck or 
sod, place the carcass thereon, and sprinkle it over with quick lime. 
Cover immediately with sod or mould sufficient to make, with what 
had been previously added, 20 good Avagon loads; and you will have 
within twelve months, a pile of manure worth $20, for any crop you 
choose to put it upon. Use a proportionate quantity of mould* for 
smaller animals; but never less than twenty good wagon loads to a 
horse and if any dogs manifest too great a regard for the enclosed car- 
cass sh(x>t them on the- spot. 

No. 2(>— TO DOUBLE THE AMOUNT OF YOUR MANURE. 

Pro\ide a ^ood supply of black swamp mould or loam from the 
woods, within easy reach of your stables and place a layer of this one 
foot thick, under each horse, 'with litter a> usual, on top of the mould. 
Remove the droppings of the animals every day, but let the loam re- 
main for two weeks; then remove it, mfxing it with the other ma- 
nure, and replace with fresh mould. By this simple means any far- 
mer can douole not only the quantity, but also the quality' of his ma- 



—15^ 

iiure and never feel himself one penny the poorer by the trouble or 
expense incurred; while the fertilizing value of the ingredients ab- 
sorbed and saved by the loam can scarcelj^ be estimated. 

No. 27— BUB8TITUTE FOR BARN MA^^URE. 
Dissolve a bushel of salt in water enough to slack five or. six bush- 
els of lime. The best rule for preparing the compost heap is: one 
bushel of this lime to one load' of swamp nuick alternately mixed; 
though o bushels to 5 loads makes a very good manure. In laying 
up the heap, let the layer of lime and muck be thin, so that decom- 
position may be more rapid and complete. When lime cannot begot, 
use unleeched ashes, 8 or 4 bushels to a cor<i of nuick. In a month 
or six weeks, over-haul and work over the lieap, when it will Vje ready 
for use. Si^rinkle the salt water on the lime as the heap goes up. 

No, 28— DEATH TO VERMIN ON PLANTS AND ANIMALS. 

Deiith t<3 vermine on plants and animals. Pour a gallon of boiling 
water on one pound Of tob:iCCo leaves, strain it in 20 ininutes, for ver- 
min on animals or plants. This decoction is certain death. 

No 20— TO PRESERVE POTATOES FROM ROT. 
Dust over the floor of the bin with lime, and put in about six or sev- 
en inches of potatoes and dust with lime as before, tlien more pota- 
toes, using about one bushel of lime to forty busiiels of potatoes. The 
lime Improves the flavor of the potatoes, and effectually kills fungi 
which causes the rot. 

No. 80— PACKING FRUIT FOR LONG DISTANCES. 
Take a box of the proper size, soft paper and sweet bran. Place a 
laver of ))ran on the l)ottom, then each bunch of grapes is held by the 
hand over a sheet of the paper; the four corners of the paper are 
brought up to the stalk and nicely secured, then laid on its side in 
the box and so on until the first layer is finished. Then dust on a 
layer of bran; give a gentle shake as you proceed. Begin the second 
layer as the first, and so on until the box is full. The bloom of the 
fruit is thus preserved as fresh at the end of a journey of five hun- 
dred miles, as if it were newly taken from the tree. Never fails 
to preserve grapes, peaches, apricots and other fi'uits. 

No. 31— OAT AND WHEAT STRAW EQUAL TO HAY. 

Oat and wheat straw made equal to hay. Bring ten gallons of wa- 
ter to boiling heat, take it oflf*the fire, and add to it at once 3 gallons 
ot linseed unground, let it remain until it ge^s cold; then empty the 
whole into a cask containing 44 gallons of told water and let it re- 
main for forty eight hours. At the end of that time, it will be re- 
duced to a thin jellv, like arrowroot. Spread out half ton of straw, 
and sprinkle it over regularlv with the whole of the liquid from the 
cask. Stock will eat it up as clean and keep as fat on it, quantity 
for quantity, as they ^vill on^hay. 



—16-- 
N6. 32— TO KEEP MILK SWEET AND SWEETEN SOUR 

MILK. 

Put into the milk a small quantity of carbonate of magnesia. 

No. 33— TO MAKE CHEAP AND GOOD VINEGAR. 

To 8 gallons of clear rain water, add six quarts of molasses, turn the 
mixture into a clean tight cask, shake it well two or three times and 
add 1 pint of good yeast. Place the cask in a warm j^lace, and in ten 
or fifteen days add a sheet of common wrapping paper, smeared with 
molasses and torn into narrow strips; and you will have good vine- 
gar. The paper is necessary to form the "mother" or life of the li- 
quor. 

No. 34— TO IMPROVE THE COLOR OF STAINS. 

Take nitric acid, one ounce; muriatic acid, one-fourth tea-*poonful; 
grain tin, one-fourth ounce; rain water, two ounces. Mix it at hast 
two days before using, and keep well corked. 

No. 35— CLAY FOR FURNACES. 

A substitute for fire-clay for boiler furnaces. 

To common earth well 'mixed with water, add a small quantity of 
rock salt and allow it to stand until the salt dissolves, then use as fire- 
clay. It answers very well. 

No. 36— MUCH BUTTER FROM LITTLE MILK. 

Take 4 ounces pulverized alum, ^ oz. pulverized gumarabic, 50 
grains pepsin ; place it in a bottle for use as required. A teaspoonful 
of this mixture added t<^ one pint will, upon churning, make one 
pound of butter. Agents are selling this secret for five dollars. 

No. 37— FOR DRIVING OUT RATS, (fee- 
Keep on hand a quantity of chloride of lime. The whole secret con- 
sists in scattering it dry all around their haunts alid into their holes, 
and they will leave at once. Or a liberal decoction of coal tar placed 
in the entrance of their holes will do as well. 

No. 38— TO TELL AGE OF HORSES BY THEIR TEETH, 

A horse has 40 teeth, 24 double teeth, or grinders, 4 tushes, or sin- 
gle file teeth, and 12 front teeth, called, gatherers. As a general thing 
mares have no tushes. Between 2 and 3 years old, the colt sh( ds his 
4 middle teeth, 2 above and 2 below. After 3 years old 2 other teeth 
are shed, one on each side of those formerly "changed; he has 8 colt 
teeth, and 8 horse teeth. When four years of age he cuts 4 new teeth. 
At 5 years of age, the horse sheds his' remaining colt teeth 4 in num- 
ber, when his tushes appear. At six years of age his tushes are up, 
appearing white, sniall and shari>, while a small circle of young grow- 
ing teeth are observable. The mouth is now complete. At 8 years of 
age the teeth have filled up, the horse is aged and his mouth is said 
to be full. — Age by eyelid. After a horse is 9 years old a wrinkle 



—17— 

eonies on the eyelid <at the upper corner of the lower lid, an.d every 
yenr thereafter lie has one well defined wrinkle for eacli year over 
nine. If, for instance a horse has three of these wrinkles, he is 12; if 
four he is thirteen. Add the number, of w^rinkles to nine, and you 
Mill in varial)ly judge correctly of a horse's age. 

No. 39— ANOTHER CHEAP FERTILIZER. 
Ammonia 60 pounds; nitrate of soda 40 pounds; ground bone 250 
pounds; plaster 2o0 pounds; salt h bushel; wood ashes 8 bushels; stable 
manure 20 bushels. Use the above quantity on 6 acres. Lal)or in- 
cluded, it will cost about J?1").00, in some places less, and is equivalent 
in value to some fertilizers which cost ifioO. 

No. 40— HENS MADE TO PROTECT BEE8. 
A bee raiser has patented an invention for the i^rotection of bees 
from the attacks of the honey moth, which enters the hives at niglit 
and ritles the stores. The idea arose out of his familiarity with the 
daily routine, not of bees only, but of hens. Hens, he observed, re- 
tire to rest early, but l)ees seek repose earlier still; no sooner are they 
sunk into slumber, than the moth steals into their abode, and devours 
the produce of their toil. He has now Iniilt a stand of hives with the 
hen house connected. The bees tii-st l)etake themselves to their 
dwelling and settle themselves for the night. The hens then com^ 
home to roost on their perch, and as they take their places u])on it, 
their weight sets some simple mechanism to work, which at once shuts 
down the doors of all the hives. When the day dawns, however, the 
hens leave their roost, and the removalof their weight from the perch 
raises the hive doors, and gi^'es egress to the bees in time for their 
morning's Avork. 

No. 41 -TO MAKE POSTS PROOF AGAINST ROT. 

This is done by charring the posts at the lower end for some to 8 
inches above the ground or 2.] feet at lower end, then immerse the 
charred portion in hot coal tar, and put in the ground about 2 feet 
deep. 

No. 42— A SPLENDID WASHING FLUID. 

Take one pound of soda, J pound good stone lime, and o quarts of 
water; boil a short time, let it settle, and pour off the clear fluid into 
a stone jug, and cork for use; soak your white clothes over night in 
simple water, wring out and soap wristbands, collars, and dirty or 
staiiifd places; have your boiler half filled with water just beginning 
to boil, then put in one common teacupful of fluid, stir and put iii 
your clothes and boil for half an hour; then rub lightly through one 
suds only and all is complete. 

No. 48— TO MAKE SOOTHING SYRUP. 
Take one pound of honey, add two tablespoonfuls of paregoric, and 
the same of oil of anise seed; add enougli water to make a thick syru}) 
and bottle. For children teething, dose, teaspoonful occi'sioually. 



— IS- 

No. 44 REMEDY FOR CONSUMPTIOX. 

The following is said to be an effectual remedy, and Mill in time 
completely cure the disorder. Live temperately, avoid spirituous liq- 
uors, wear flannel next to the skin, and take every morning, half a 
pint of new milk, mixed with a wine glass full of the expressed juice 
of green horehound. One who has tried it says, "Four week's use of 
the horehound and milk relieved the pains of my breast, gave me 
ability to breathe deep, long and free, strengthened" and harmonized 
my voice and restored me to a better state of health than I had enjoy- 
ed for years. 

No. 45— TO MAKE AVER'S CHERRY PECTORAL. 

'\ ake 4 grains acetate of morphia; 2 fluid drams of tincture of blood 
root; 3 fluid drams each of antimonial wine and wine of ipecacuanha, 
and three fluid ounces of syrup of wild cherry, mixed. 

No. 46— TO MAKE AYER'8 8ARSAPARILLA. 
Take three fluid ounces, each of alcohol, fluid extracts of sarsapa- 
rilla, and of stalingia; two fluid ozs, each, extract of yellow dock and 
podophyllin, one oz. sugar, 90 gr. iodide of potassium, and 10 gr. io- 
dide of iron. 

No. 47— TO EXTRACT TEETH \VITH LITTLE OR NO PAIN. 

Tincture of aconite, chloroform, and alcohol, of each one oz; mix, 
moisten tAvo pledgets of cotton with the liquid, and apply to the 
gums on each side of the tooth to be extracted, holding them in their 
places, with pliers or other instruments for from five to ten minutes, 
rubbing the gum freely inside and out. 

No. 48— TO MAKE CABBAGE PICKLE. 
Quarter the heads and sprinkle pretty thickly with salt, let them 
remain about twelve hours. Take tlieni from the salt, rinse them in 
cold water and wipe dry. If preferred cut them fine. Put them in 
a jar, and pour over them cold spiced vinegar. 

No. 49— TO MAKE BREAD WITH IRISH POTATO YEAST. 

Sift one quart of flour,rub into the flour a piece of lard as large as a 
lien's egg, add a teaspoonful of salt. Beat one egg in a bowl with 
tAvo level tablespoonsful of sugar, then add two heaped tablespoons- 
ful of potato yeast. Beat a little,and pour the mixture into the flour, 
add a tumbler of tepid Avater, knead the dough Avell. Grease a tin 
bucket, iHit in the dough, greasing it slightly on the top. Cover and 
^et it to rise. When risen, make into rolls, placing thtm so as to 
touch in the pan. They are to be baked in cover, and Avhen risen 
near the top of the pan, bake quickly. If the Aveather is verv Avarm 
make up the bread betAveen elcA'en and tAvelve o'clock. ItVill be 
ready to make into rolls betAveen three and four o'clock. Just try 
this one time if you Avish to have some real delicious bread. It can- 
not be excelled. 



—19— 

Xo. 50— TO MAKE IRI8H POTATO YEAST. 

At twelve o'clock In the day, mash very smooth a boiled Irish po- 
tato. Mix withit atablespoonfulofliqiiid yeast or a teapooiifiil of 
powdered leaven; if necessary use a little water, mix this well with 
the potato in a soup plate, turn a plate over it, set in a warm place if 
the weather is cold. At night make up the breakfast bread with this 
preparation, leaving. a tablespoonful to start the yeast again. If for 
tea, make the yeast after breakfast. When yeast is good it will in- 
crease somewhat in bulk and crack open over the top. This is a sim- 
ple and excellent recipe. 

No. 51— TO MAKE SWEET POTATO YEAST. 

Bake or roast sweet potatoes enough to make a pint of potatoes. 
After being rubbed through a potato grater, pour over this a pint of 
boiling water, a pint of cold water, a teacup of good hop yeast, or half 
a cup of leaven; mix well together. Pour it in a wide mouthed jar, 
stop lightly till it rises. Keep in a moderately warm place in winter 
and a cool place in summer. The bread may be made up entirely 
with this yeast, always reserving a cupful to start the yeast. Make 
it fresh every two or three days. Irish potato yeast may be made in 
in the same way. A sifter o/ perforated ladle will answer as good or 
better purpose to rub the potatoes through than a potato grater. 

No. 52— REMEDY FOR CORNS AND WARTS. 

Take a small quantity of the potash paste recommended for Poll 
evil, and npply to the corn or wart. 

No. 53-A GOOD COUGH SYRUP. 
Put one qnart horehound tea, one quart of water, and boil it down 
to one pint; add two or three sticks of licorice; two onnces syrnp of 
s(prlls, and a teasp lonful essence of lemon. Take a teasp.)onfLd three 
times a day, or as the cough requires. 

No 54— REMEDY FOR COLD IN THE HEAD. 

Dr. Pollion, of France, says that cold in the head can be cured by 
inhaling Inu'tshorn. The inhalation by the nose should be seven or 
eignt times in live minutes 

No. 55— REMEDY FOR ERYSIPELAS. 
Take a handful of dry unbolted rvt flour and apply to the parts af- 
fected. Tills is the best remedy for\he disease among children. This 
is also an excellent remedy for many other inflammations of the skin. 
It is splendid to put <m a fresh cut to keep down all inflammation. 

No 56— TO CURE WARTS AND CORNS IN TEN MINUTES. 
Take a small piece of potash, and let it stand in the open air until 
it slacks, then thicken it to a paste with pulverized gum aral)ic, 
Miiich i^revents it from spreading where it is not wanted. 



-20— 

No. 57— REMEDY FOR WEAK BACK. 

Take a beef's gall, pour into it one pint alcohol, and batbe frequent- 
ly. Itacts like a cbarn]. 

No. 5^— REMEDY FOR 8PRAINED ANKLES. 
Wash the anl?ies frequently with cold salt water," which is far bet- 
ter ^han warm vinegar or decoctions of herl)s Keep your foot cold 
as possible to prevent inflammation, and sit with it elevated on a 
cushion. 

No. 59— TO STOP SPITTING BLOOD. 
►^ Two spoonfuls of sage juice m a little hcmey, will speedily stop eith- 
er spitting or vomiting blood, or take 20 grains in water every two 
hours. 

No. 60— TEA CANCER CURE. 
A tea strongly recommended for cancer cure. 

Drink a tea made from the toj^s of red clover. About one quart I3er 
day should be taken internally, and the tea sliould be used as a wash 
twice per day. Very strongly reconnnended. 

No. 61— TO MAKE EXCELLENT VINEGAR CHEAP. 

Acetic acid 5 pounds; molasses 2 gallons; yeast 2 quarts; put them 
in a 40 gallon cask and fill with rain water; stir it up, and let it stand 
one to three weeks, letting it have all the an- possible, and you will 
have good vinegar. If wanted stronger add more molasses. Should 
you at anytime have weak vinegar on hand, put molasses into it to 
set working. This will soon correct it. Make in a warm place. 

No 62— GOOD SOAP WITHOUT LYE OR GREASE. 

In a clean pot put hulf-po.ind home-made, hard or nuish soap, and 
half-jDound sal-soda, 5 jiints of soft water. Boil the mixture 15 min- 
utes, and you will have 5 pounds good soap for 7J cents. Hard 
Soap— Take 5 lbs. hard soap, or 7 lbs. soft soap, and 4 lbs. sal-soda, 
and 2 oz. borax, and 1 oz hartshorn; boil one quarter-hour with 22 
quarts water; add to harden, half-pound resin. 

No. 63— TO MAKE UNFERMENTED WINE. 

To make this, boil grapes of any kind over a slow fire till the pulp 
has thoroughly separated from the skin, adding just enough water to 
prevent burning at the bottom of the vessel, then press the juice 
through a fine cloth and add one-fourth its weight of sugar, mix well 
bring the juice to the boiling point once more, and put in air- tight 
jars. This wine will keep sweet for years and has the color of port. 

No. 64— TO INCREASE YIELD OF WHEAT 100 PER CENT. 
Another mode of planting wheat which is said to increase its yield 
100 per cent. This WaS given me by a farmer in Hall county, Ga., 
who stated that he had followed this mode of planting for the last 12 
or 14 years. He puts his wheat in a tub and pours in just enough 
water to cover it, and soaks it for about 5 or 10 minutes, just long 



—21— 

enough to get the wheat tlioroughly wet. Then he puts a quantity 
offre.sli slacked lime in a shallow wooden box and pours in the wheat 
but not the water and stirs it with a stick until it is thoroughly coat- 
ed Mith the lime. Then he sows it in the usual way. He says it 
does not uiake any difference about loosening tlie husk on the wheat, 
that it wil come iip all the same Tiiis farmer's name is Brooks, I 
have known him persouidly for six or seven. years, and have found 
hlni to be a truthful mm; he lives in Hall county, Ga., near Gills- 
ville, on the Xorth Eastern R. R., leaiHng from Athens to Lula. It 
is my opinion tliat tliis will not worlv well in a regular lime-stone 
section, but I do think it would l)e advantageous to prepare tlie wlieat 
in this way in (ther sections of the country where there is but little 
or no lime in the soil. This is a very cheap and simple preparation 
and well worthj^ of a trial. 

No. Go TO MAKE WHITE WINE VINEGAR. 
Mash up 20 lbs. raisins and arid 10 gallons of water, let it stand in 
a warm place for one month, and you will have pure white wine vin- 
egar. Tne raisins njay be used the second time the same way. 

Xo. Oti— CURE FOR THE 8WIN>^EY IN H0RSE8. 
Take one pint spirits of turpentine, one tablespoonful cream tartar, 
one large tablespoonful pulverized fraid'Cinceiise Mix all the ingre- 
dients together in a bottle, and let it stand in the sun four or five 
days, and shake well; then it is ready for use. Take a feather juid 
grease the diseased parts. 

No. 67— TO MAKE RASPBERRY AND BLACKBERRY JAM. 
Take six pounds nicely picked berries, six pounds loaf sugar, put 
the truit into a ni(;e kettle over a (juick tire, and stir constantly, un- 
td the juice is nearly wasted, then add the sugar, and simmer to a 
tine jam. In this way the jam is greatly superior to that which is 
made by putting the sui^ar in first. 

No. 68— BOTTLED SODA WATER WITHOUT A MACHINE. 

In each gallon of water to be used, carefully diss:)lve f pound of 
crushed sugar, and one ounce of super-carbcmate of soda; then fill 
pint bottles with the water, have your corks ready; now drop into 
each bottle half dram of pulverized citric acid, iunriediately cork, and 
tie down. Handle the bottles carefully, and keep cool until needed. 
More sugar may be added if desired. 

No. 69— MORMONS CURE FOR CANCER. 

It is reported that a Mormon has discovered a cure for cancer. It 
consists of a lemon [)oultice, applied twice daily. To prepare the 
poultice, bruise the meat of the lemon and spread it on a soft rag and 
apply to the part affected. 

No. 70— TO MAKE FIRE PROOF WASH FOR SHINGLES. 
Sulphate of zinc, (white vitriol), and salt, of each one pound, lime 



one bushel, made into a wash with sufficient water, and skim-milk 
one quart to each gallon and apply as white wash. 

No. 71— FLY PAPER TO KILL FLIES. 

Castor oil 2 oz. rosin 4 oz., melted together and spread lightly on 
paper. Plays stick-um-fast to all that light upon it. 

No. 72-TOOrH WASH TO REMOVE BLACKNESS. 

Pure muriatic acid 1 oz. water 1 oz. honey 2 oz. mix. Take a 
toothbrush, and wet it freely with preparation and briskly rub the 
black teeth, and in a moment's time they will be perfectly white; 
then immediately wash out the mouth with water, tliat the acid may 
not act upon the enamel of the teeth. 

No. 73-TO MAKE MAGNETIC PAIN KILLER. 

To make a magnetic pain killer for tooth ache and acute pain. 
Laudanum 1 dram, gum camphor 4 drams oil of cloves one haif 
dram, oil of lavender one dram; aid them to one ounce of alcohol, 
six drams sulphuric etlier, and five fluid drams chloroform. Aj)ply 
with Imt, or for tojthache rub on the gums and upm the face against 
the teeth. 

No. 74-RAZOR STROP PASTE. 

To make a No. 1 razor strop paste. Wet the strop with a little 
sweet oil and apply a little flour of emery evenly over thj surfacj. 

No. 75— FRECKLE CURE. 
Take 2 oz. lemon juice, or half a dram of po.vdered borax:, and (me 
riram of sugar; mix together, and let them stand in a gla-^s l)ottle for 
a few days, then rub on the face occasionally^ 

No. 76— AN INSTANTANEOUS HAIR DYE. 
To make Phalon's instantaneous hair dye. No 1, to 1 oz. pyrogal- 
ic acid, and \ oz. of tannia, dissolved in 2 oz. of ahjohol, add 1 qt. of 
soft water. No. 2, to 1 oz. crystilized nitrate of silver, dissolved in 
1 oz. concentrated aqua ammonia, add 1 oz. gam arable, and 14 oz 
soft water. Keep in the dark. 

No. 77-BARBER'S SHAMPOO MIXTURE. 
Soft water, 1 pt. sal soda, 1 oz. cream tartar, ] oz. Ajoply thor- 
oughly to the hair. 

No. 78— BALM OF THOUSAND FLOWERS. 
Deodorized alcohol, 1 pt. nice white t)ar soap, 4 oz.; shave the soap 
when put in; stand in a warm place till dissolved; then add oil of 
citronella, 1 dr, and oils of neroli and rv)seraary, of each h dram. 

No. 79— NEW YORK BARBER'S STAR HAIR OIL. 

Castor oil six and a half pints, alcohol one and a half pints, citro- 
nella and lavender oil each one half ounce. 



—23— 
No. 80— CERTAIN CURE FOR CROUP. 

(loose oil and urine, equal parts. 

No. 81— HOW TO MAKE OYSTER SOUP. 

To each dozen or dish of oysters, put lialf pint of water; one gill of 
milk; half ounce butter; powdered crackers to thicken; bring the 
oysters and water to a boil, then add the other ingredients previously 
:i';ixed together, and boil them three to five minutes only. Season 
with pejjper and salt to taste. 

No. 82— OLD MAN'S MILK. 

A nice V)everage known as old man's milk. One wine gla>;s of port 
wine, one teaspoonful of sugar. Fill the tumbler one third fidl of 
hot milk. 

No. 83— HOW TO MAKE PERFECT LOVE. 

One tablespoonful sugar, one piece each of orange and lemon peel. 
Fiirthe tumbler one third full of shaven ice and fill balance with 
wine; ornament in a tasty manner with berries in seiison. Sip 
through a straw. 

No. 84— A CURE FOR BURNS AND SCALDS. 

Spread clarified honey on a linen rag, apply to the burn immedi- 
ately. It will relieve the pain instantly and heal the sore in a very 
shoit time. However, I am of the opinion that the former remedy of 
linseed oil and lime water is much the best, as I have seen quite a 
nunjberof receipts prepared similar to this. I have seen it stated 
that a litlle well slaked linje sifted through a muslin cloth and njixed 
in with linseed oil makes a splendid application for burns and scalds. 

No. 85— PREVENTING DISEASES IN HOGS AND FOWLS. 

A splendid disinfectant for exterminating vermin and preventing 
disease among hogs and foM'ls. 

Dissolve one-half i3(und carbolic acid in five gallons of boiling wa- 
ter, then put two bushels of dry-saw dust or wood ashes in an old 
I arrel or box of suitable size; then sjDiinkle the ^^ateron the saw-dust 
or ashes and stir the mixture thoroughly while the sprinkling is go- 
ing on, so as. the whole bulk will evenly absorb the water containing 
the acid. Then spread this out in the sun to dry and after it has been 
thoroughly dried take the mixture and sprinkle a quantity of it in 
and around your hen houses, also put a quantity of it in each hog's 
bed or any place they may sleep at night. A peck of this mixture 
lor a hen house, and a bushel for every ten head of hogs applied every 
two months. Every one who mises hogs and chickens should make 
this application atome, as it may save .^ou much trouble and ex- 
] ense, tor (arbolic acid is knownto be the best disinfectant and pre- 
^enlat]ve of disease among aninjals the wide world over. 

No. 86— TO KEEP FLIES OUT OF SMOKE-HOUSES. 

Take two small boxes, each about one foot square and one and one 
half ftet detp and p'ace in each of them a bottle containing half pint 



—24- 

of carbolic acid, leaving each bottle uncorked, then nail narrow strips 
of wood one or two inches wide across the top of each Vjox, leaving 
the strips one incli apart, then place the boxes on shelves three or 
four feet high on opposite walls on the inside of the smoke-house, the 
fumes or odor of the acid will kill or drive away the flies. Carbolic 
acid is made of coal tar and is considered poisonous when taken in 
large doses and it should be har»dled with care. 

Carbolic acid thus arranged and placed inside or even under dwell- 
ing houses would prove a great disinfectant against all contagious 
diseases among people. Carbolic acid shoukl be fretly thrown under 
soil houses and all other places having a bad smell around the i3rtin- 
ises of a dwelling house. The free use of carbolic acid in these places 
may save you or some one of your family a long sneil of sickness. 

Xo. 87— ANOTHER REMEDY TO GET RID OF MITES. 

Take 3 oz. Carbolic acid, half-peck well slaked lime, l^alf-pint fresh 
sweet milk, 3 oz. cheap snuft", and add enough boiling water, stirring 
it well, until the whole is about the c< n^istency of buttermilk; then 
take a Avhite-wash brush or a rag mop on ihe end of a stick, and put 
a coat of this on the roost-poles and in the boxes, or places where the 
nests are to be made; leptat this operation once every four months 
during the year, and you will certainly- not be troubled with mites 
any longer among your fowls. This fs an orioinal idea of the author 
of this book, and should be known by all poultry raisers. 

No. 88— ANOTHER REMEDY FOR MITES. 

One more good remedy to keep mites and all other vennin off tlie 
walls of hen-houses. 

A hen-hou^e should be white\\ ashed with lime inside and out. Pre- 
pare the whitewash as follows: Take one peck of frtsh slaked lime, 
and add enough water to make it about as thick as buttermilk; then 
add 4 oz. Carbolic acid, one pound ])ulveiized sulphur, one pint of 
wheat flour; all well stirred in and boil the whole for fifteen minutes, 
constantly stirring with a stick and apply w-ith a brush while hot. 

No. 89— TO RID A HOUSE OF RATS. 

Take a ball of concentrated potash and place it in a cloth or leather 
bag, and beat it up finely with a mallet or hammer. Then take two 
quarts air slacked lime and mix in the potash with the lime and stir 
well; then sprinkle this mixture about their haunts and other places 
they usually rove at night. This will get on their feet and they will 
endeavor to lick it off with their tongues which will cau.-e them to 
leave the building immediately. 

No. 90— HOW TO MAKE HOP BEER VERY FINE. 

Mix 14 pounds molasses and 11 gallons water well together, and 
boil them for two hours with 6 oz. hops. When quite cool, add a 
cup full of yeast, and stir it well by a gallon or two at a time. Let it 



ftrment for 16 hours in a tub covered with a s-ack, then put it in a 
niue gidlon cask; and lieep it filled up; buug it down in two days, 
and in seven da\s it will be fit to diink, and will be stronger ibaii 
London porter. 

Xu. 91— HOW TO MAIvE RAILROAD CAKE. 

Take one large teacupful of sugar, a table-sf>oonful butt-er some- 
what litaped, two eggs, one pint of lifted flour, one teacup of sweet 
milk, one taUe-spoonful of so<la, and two of cream tartar, or a dessert 
spoonful of yea^t powders. Dissolve the soda in the milk, and rub 
the cream of tartar in tlie flour. Flavor accordmg to tas'.e. 

No. 92.— TO MAKE PLAIX BUXS. 

One tumbler sweet milk, three eggs, one table-spoonful of butter or 
lard, six table-sp( onful?j of sugar, beaten with the egg^^ until they are 
hght; half a tumbler of good yeast; flour to make into xather a" soft 
dough. Set in a warm place to rise. When risen mould into rolls. 
When rLsen the second time, bake as quickly as possible. 

Xo. 93.— AX EXCELLEXT SOFT GIXGER CAKE. 

One cup of sugar, 3 of molasses, 1 of butter, 1 of sweet milk, 3 eggs, 
7 cups of flour, 1 tta^poonful of soda, beaten well into the molasses; 
add ginger and .spice to taste. 

Xo. 94.— TO MAKE PICKLEL OXIOXS. 

Peel, V>oil in milk and water 10 minutes, drain off the milk and wa- 
ter, and pour on cold spiced vinegar. 

Xo. 95.— TO PICKLE CUCUMBERS. 
Keep them in salt and water 3 days, then wipe them dry, put into 
a jar, put in spices, and a small lump of alum, jxjur i^calding vmegar 
over them. If a white scum rises from ( fF tlie vinegar, scald and 
pour over again. Always have plenty of vinegar to cover them well 
Cucumbers can be kept in brine for a year, lay grape leaves on top 
and weight to keep them under the brine. 

X^o. 96— TO MAKE SWEET PICKLE. 

To three pounds brown sugar put one gi.llon of \^negar, spice to 
your ta^te; L-oil altogether a short time, and set off to cool, till ajar 
with the vegetables or fruits to be pickled, pour the vinegar over 
them when cool. If you di^cover a white scum on the surface, pour 
the vinegar from the pickle and boil again, add a little more sugar. 
When cool return to the jar. Peaches stuflTed after nearly removing 
the seed are nice made in this way. Figs ripe but not soft, are good, 
so are cherries. 
Xo. 97.— QUITE A XOVEL REMEDY FOR RHEUMATISM. 

Quite a novel remedy. Mr. R. A. Ware, a rehable citizen of Lin- 
coln county, Gra., gave me a novel remedy for curing rheumatLsm. 



—26— 

He tells of a lady having a severe case of rheuraatism in one of her 
arms during the spring of the year. So one day she happened to lay 
her swollen arm in an open window, and a bee happened to alight on 
it, and sting her on the swollen part. The swelling all went down 
soon afterward and the rheumatism was cured at once. Sometime 
after that Mr. Ware related the circumstance to a doctor who replied 
that he had read of a similar case in an old English medical book. A 
gentleman haAdng rheumatism in one of his legs was present, apply- 
mg to the doctor for medicine for the disease, heard the above conver- 
sation, went home inamediately and applied two or three bees to his 
swollen leg. They stung him, the swelling went down, and the 
rheumatism was cured at once. This remedy is exceedingly simple 
and while it seems to be an absurd idea, there is no harm in giving it 
a trial ; it may save you much suffering and expense. Mr. Ware also 
states the gentleman had not been able to plow any for months pre- 
vious, but was able to go to plowing the same day he had made the 
application. I told an old uncle of mine about this who is over sev- 
enty years of age; and he said he had heard of the bee stinging rem- 
edy for rheumatism, long years ago. Why not accept this theory as 
well as any other theorj^ in medicine, for who can tell exactly what 
effect different kinds of medicine may have upon the human system. 
We know many kinds in many instances have a desired effect, and 
that is all any one knows about it. We hold that nature has pro- 
Aided a remedy for everj^ disease if we can but find the right remedy 
for a certain disease; but, how came it to be known that a certain 
remedy should cure a certain disease, except by experiment in a great 
many instances, and in many by the merest accident. 

No. 98— PROCESS OF TANNING CALF, KIP AND HARNESS 

LEATHER IN FROM 6 TO 30 DAYS. 

For a 12 pound calf-skin, take 3 pounds of terra jajwnica, common 
salt, 2 pounds; alum, 1 pound; put them in a copper kettle with suffi- 
cient water to dissolve the whole without boiling. The skin will be 
limed, haired, and treated every way as by old process, when it will 
be put into a vessel with water to cover it, at which time you will 
put in 1 pint of the composition stirring it well, adding the same 
night and niorning for 3 days, when you will add the whole, hand- 
ling 2 or 3 times daily all the time tanning; you can continue to use 
the tanning liquid by adding half the quantity each, by keeping 
these proportions for any amount. > If you desire to give a dark color 
to the ieather,you will j^ut in 1 pound of J-icily sumac. Kip skin-« will 
require about 20 days; light horse hidts for harness 30 days; calf-skin 
from 6 to 10 days at most. 

No. 99— A POWERFUL CEMENT FOR BROKEN MARBLE. 

Take gumarabic, 1 pound; make into it a thick mucilage. Add to 
it powered plaster of paris, IJ pound; sifted quicklime, 5 ounces; mix 
well; heat the marble and applj' the mixture. 



—27— 

No. 100— TO TAKE CARE OF STEAM GAUGES 

A little glycerine, or sulphuric acid, placed on the surface of the 
mercury will keep a mercurial steam gauge in go'>d order by lubrica- 
ting both glass and medals, preventing their adhesion. 

No. 101— REMEDY FOR ERYSIPELAS. 1. 
Take an Irish potato, peel and scrape it up fine with a case knife, 
put this on a sofi rag and apply to the parts affected, as a poultice; 
repeat this once each day until relieved. 

No. 102— REMEDY FOR ERYSIPELAS. 2. 

Take a tablespoonful of fresh butter just from the churn without 
any salt in it, mix well with one teaspoonful of calomel. Spread this 
on a soft rag and apply to the parts affected. This in many instan- 
ces will give immediate relief. 

No. 103— A SURE WAY TO EXTERMINATE RATS. 
Take an old barrel and fill it about 1-3 full of water; then put a 
thin layer ot cotton seed on top the water; then sprinkle a little corn 
meal over the cotton seed; then put a few small scraps of old bacon 
broiled, on top of the meal, then place the barrel near the wall of the 
house or other convenient place for the rats to get in it, leaving the 
head out at the top of the barrel. The writer of this book was told 
by a friend that he knew 36 to be drowned this way in one night. 

No. 104.— TO CURE AND PREVENT SORE EYES. 
Dip your fingers in kerosene oil and place them on the hds after 
closing the eyes. This will get enough on the inside. We know that 
to be a good remedy from experience, as we have used kerosene in 
this way dozens of times and have told others of it. All who have 
tried it say it did them a great deal of good. An application once 
and not more than twice a each day is sufficient. Kerosene oil is a 
product of petroleum from which vaseline is made, which in its re- 
fined state is a great remedy to keep down inflammation about the eye. 

105— BLACKBERRY CORDIAL FOR SUMMER COMPLAINT. 

Take one gallon of nice ripe blackberries, put them in a brass or 
copper kettle, or porcelain lined iron vessel, and pour in just enough 
water to cover them and boil slowly until the berries are thoroughly 
done. When cool strain through a flannel cloth, and to every two 
tumblerfuls of this juice add one tumblerful of good corn whisky, 
put this into a stone jug and add four teaspoonsful each of allspice 
and bruised ginger root to each gallon of the liquor. Then sweeten 
to taste and shake the whole well, having the jugs or other vessels 
entirely full; then cork tight and place in a cellar or other cool place. 
This cordial is a valuable remedy for diarrhoea, dysentery, cholera 
iniantum, or other relaxed conditions of the bowels. Dose for grown 
people half wine glass full or less, two or three times each day until 
relieved. For children one or two tablespoonsful every two hours 



—28— 

relieved. This most excellent remedy was given me by a special re- 
lative lady friend, Mrs Lizzie Williamson, who has used it regularly in 
her family for years with the greatest degree of success. This lady 
friend says her neighbors frequently send to her for this remedy when 
they get sick from the above disease. Bhe<says it is just ii4t?ndid for 
diarrhoea, dysentery, cliolera infantum etc. It strikes us that this 
simple renjedy should be prepared when blackberries get ripCj and 
kept in every household for cases of emergency. 

No. 106— TO MAKE GENUINE SEIDLITZ POWDERS. 

Rochelle salts, 2 drams; bicarb soda, 2 scruples. Put these into a 
blue paper and 35 grains tartaric acid into a white paper. To use, 
put each into different tumblers, fill half with water, Udding a little 
loaf sugar to the acid, then p')ur together and drink quickly. This is 
just splendid to cure headache.. Try it and be convinced. 

No. 107 SPLENDID SALVE FOR BOILS AND CARBUNCLES. 

Take the yolk of 1 egiJf, 1 teaspoonful of castor oil, 5 drops spirits of 
turpentine, 10 drops of laudanum, 1 teaspoonful of honey, 1 teaspoon- 
ful fluid camphor, these all worked well together cold! Take half 
teaspoonful and apply to the parts daily. 

No. 108— SURE CURE FOR BONE FELON, BOILS AND 
CARBUNCLES 

Take 1 pound of ro^in, (proqure rosin frjoni drugstore,) 3-4 pound of 
beeswax, and 1 pound mutton suet. Put all of these together in 2 
gallons of water and boil for one hour. Then set the vessel aside for 
10 hours, at which time a cake will be formed on the surface of the 
water; remove the cake and it is ready for use. Take a thin scale of 
this and apply to parts affected. Wash the parts once a day and 
make new applications, api^ly a piece of cloth or paper after the ap- 
plication is made. . ' 

The Hon. R. L. Foreman, ex-proprietor of the Washington, Ga., 
hotel for 20 years, gave me this last recipe for curing boils and bone- 
felons. Mr. Foreman says a drummer who has tried it successfully 
in a great many cases, gave it to him He also says he has tried it 
himself in several cases, and thinks it a sovereign remedy. 

The recipe for making a splendid salve for boils and carbuncles 
was given me by a lady friend who has tried it successfully in many 
eases. These last two recipes should be known by every one subject 
to these terrible maladies, and if once tried it is my honest opinion 
that the patient will readily conclude that he has been fully repaid 
for the cost of this little book. 

No. 109— TO KEEP MITES OUT OF HEN HOUSES. 

Take home-raised tobacco, pinch or crumble this up and put as 
much as two or three leaves in each hen's nest, or a cheap article of 
manufactured tobacco, chopped or torn up, and about a fourth of a 



—29— 

pluor put into each nest will answer the same purpose of exterminat- 
ing the mites in short order. This plan of getting rid of mites was 
given me by a panic 'ilar lady friend, and I can certainly voucli for it 
being a splendid remedy. 

No. 110— HOW TO CASE HARDEN IRON SO EVEN A FILE 
WILL NOT SCRATCH IT. 

Make a paste of prussiate of potash, pulverized, by using wheat 
flour, equal in amount, and a little hot water enough to make a thin 
paste. Cover the article to be tiardened with a coat of the paste and 
let it dry. Raise the article to a low red hot heat in a clear fire, and 
plunge into coki water. The flour assists only in forming the paste 
11 nd causing its adherence to the iron. This will be found valuable 
in case-liardening buggy and liglit wagon axles and for all smaller 
articles su I )ject to wear. The writer of this book has used this prepa 
ration for 25 years and has found it to be an ^ excellent and simple 
way to case-harden iron. 

No. 111. —A SUBSTITUTE FOR COFFEE. 
Take well dried chicory and parch it in the usual way of parching 
coffee, theiignnd it in a coffee-mill. Then take one pound of nice 
jDarched and ground coffee and mix it with one pound of the chicory as 
above prepared and make the coffee in the usual way. 
The writer of this book has used some of the coffee 
prepared in this way. ^ It was given me by a German living at Mount 
Airy, Ga., who ui-ed it regularly in his family as a beverage at meals. 
The chicory seed can be ])rocured from mo.stany of the northern gar- 
den seed dealers. The seed is planted in the usual way of planting 
turnip seed in drills, and the chicory root resembles in color that of 
white turnips, though in size that of beets. When this vegetable hais 
matured, the root is dug up and peeled. Then the meat of the chico- 
ry should be cut up in snuilJ particles about one inch square and dried 
in the f^un In the usual way of drying fruit. Tiien it is ready to be 
parched and ground. 

' No. 112— TO MAKE ICE CREAM. 
Have rich, sweet cream, add a half pound of loaf sugar to each 
quart of cream or milk. If you can not get cream, the best imitation 
is to boil a soft custard, 6 eggs to each quart of milk (eggs well beat.) 

No. 113.— HOW TO MAKE CIDER WITHOUT APPLES. 

Take bne^gallon of water, one pound common sugar; half ounce 
tartaric acid; one tablespoonfulyeast; shake well^make in the even- 
ing, and it wjU be ready to use next day. ' 

No. 114. ^ANOTHER GOOD CIDER. 

Take 20 gallons cold water, 15 pounds brown sugar, half-pound tar- 
taric acid, rummage well together, and add, if you have them, 3 or 4 
pounds of di'ied sour apples, or boil them and pour in the expressed 
juice. This cider will keep longer than the others.' 



—30— 
No. 115— EXCELLENT REMEDY FOR SORE THROAT. 

Take 2 teaspoonsful of 8weet oil and 1 teaspoonful of sulphur, mix 
well. Mop the throat on the inside with this mixture. Before ap- 
plying the hniment, gargle your throat with hot sage t'^a. 

No. 116— TO PREVENT SWELLINGS FROM BRUISES. 

Apply at once a cloth or brown paper two or three folds in thick- 
ness, dipped in strong vinegar, and when it grows warm renew the 
wetting. 

No. 117-CURE FOR BURNS AND SCALDS. 

Mix in a bottle three ounces linseed oil and four ounces lime water. 
Apply the mixture to parts burned five or six times a day, with a 
feather. Place a soft rag over the parts to exclude the air. 

No. 118.— MY FAVORITE SOUP FOR SICK FOLKS. 

Let one cup of water come to a boil, then add in one cup of sweet 
milk, ana let it come to a boil, then break in one egg and let it boil 
until it is hard, then take the egg out whole, then add in a teaspoon- 
ful of flour dissolved in sweet milk, also a tablesp )o:ifulof well boiled 
rice, and a very small quantity of black pepper and salt, then stir for 
a moment and the soup is ready for the patient. 

No. 119.— TO MAKE SYLLABUB. 

One pint thick cream (if it should be a little acid, stir in enough so- 
da to sweeten it.) Mix with the cream one quarter of a pound of 
white sifted sugar; let it stand half an hour; then add three wine- 
glasses of sherry or Madeira wine. Whip to a stiff froth, and till the 
glasses. Either churn The cream, using a small tin syllabub churn 
(which can be procured at any tin shop), or pour the cream upon a 
flat dish pnd whip with a silver fork or egg-beater. The latter is 
more tedious, but the syllabub is more solid. 

No. 120. -ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE SYLLABUB 
Beat to a solid froth the whites of four eggs; mix with a pint of rich 
cream; sweeten with four tablespoo sful of pulverized loaf sugar; add 
wine to taste and whip to a stiff froth and fill the glasses. It should 
be whipped until very solid. The writer almost swallows his tongue 
in thinking oyer these two last recipes, and the reader may accident- 
ally'^ swallow his entirely should he be provided with a gipss of the 
syllabub. 

No. 121— GOOD BLACK INK AT TEN CENTS PER GALLON. 
Take 1 package of slate colored diamond dye and stir it into 1 g;d- 
lon of boiling water. Let it cool then bottle it. This recipe was 
given me by Mr. J. Warren Ware, a regular school teacher, who sta- 
ted that he generally furnished each of his scholars with this ink at 
a cost of only 10 cents per year. It strikes the writer that this would 
make a cheap marking fluid to label boxes, bags, packages &c. 



—31— 
No. 12^A SPLENDID CHEAP BLACK-BOARD. 

answer the same purpose Then ^f,^'i.^%^^^ of the room will 
quart of water boiling on the fire then ?«k. It ^?'''''^ ^^ ^'"^ i" 1 
black and put it into threronlrknf ^!^- "" ^^ P^""^ ^^ lamp- 
other quart of glue water an3 9 ot nUlf'^^ '''^^^'^ tj^^^ ^^^ in the 
mixture thoroughly and anplv the fl L Tm'"^^ ^^^ '^'^ *1^^ ^^^^ole 
paint brush. This is enouSi^tolnf n^^^^^^^^ ^"* '^''^^^ ^ c^^an 

feet square. It st LeT fiV w?[ L Z^^ ^^^^^ ten 

MeainVaintingmantllpieces fnrr^^^^ TT'^ *^^ ^^ ^'^Pifal 

the floul. Of emfry in^afeTex^r^^^^^^ ^^' ^^"^"^ 

No. 123-A CURE FOR DYSENTERY 

V^^^^^^^'fe^^^^^ ^-^poontul cam- 

aether and take ^veiy two htrkl'r'^^^^^^^^ -'^ to- 

No. 124-TO CURE OLD SORES. 
h/n^d^fr^^LTLZ?^^ ^-- - Jimson weed, a 

Ne. 125-TO CURE SORE THROAT 

bear'^en, ^:e;;^a?tTrSL^7,^^^^^^^ ^'^^^ /?^* - ^t, as you can 

half teaspoonful sWtVl and oL^f ^"^T^^"^ ^'P^"*« turpentine, 
the throat with thrmixture teaspoonful of sulphur aSd mop 

No. 126— A CURE FOR THE PILES 

on^^:mflL''Ve^^^^^^^^ handful of leave's to a spoonful 

then strain the water and aS t^fl^.*^^^^^^ T^.?". ^^" half hour, 
waterisout,thenpLiUi^atef^r>^nfn1^^^^^^ "^til all the 

eases I simply brufsf th^ l^^aTd^^Jj^plXm '^ ^^^ 

No. 127-A CURE FOR BONEFELON 

tl'n'lu^^^^^^^^^^ of tea, 

suet, then boil this down im Hi /hT^ of rosm beeswax and mutton- 

.man quantity of1h1ro„\"°l;U^:,-?^firSyfo IL ^' ^ 



—32— 
No. 128— A CURE FOR THE COLIC. 
Take camphor and Jamaica ginger, teaspoonful of each, ten drops of 
turpentine and twenty-five drops of laudanmn, every two hours until 
relieved. 

No. 129— TO MAKE AN ABUNDANCE OF STRAWBERRIES 
WITHOUT CULTIVATING THEM. 

Plant the strawberries in the usual way and cultivate them the 
first year, then cover them with pine or other straw the next Fehru- 
ar3% burn the patch off and in the spring you will have a good 
crop of strawberries. Follow this mode of covering the vines with 
straw every succeeding February and burn the patch off as before. 
Should the vines become too thick, however, thin them out with a 
hoe, this is all that is required. 

These last seven recipes, were given me by a special lady friend 
near Danburg, Ga , who has tried them for many years very success- 
fully. 

No. 130— A SOVEREIGN REMEDY FOR RHEUMATISM. 

Take two tablespoonsful Jamestown weed seed and pulverize them 
thoroughly, put them in a pint of corn whiskey; then take a rich fat 
pine knot and saw out two tablespoonsful of saw-dust with a hand 
saw, and add this to the whiskey; shake well, and let stand a couple 
of days and it is ready for use. Shake well before using. It is to 
be used as an external remedy only. Rub the parts freely with this 
liniment twice each day until relieved. 

The Hon. Y. J. Harrington of Bowdre, Ga., gave me this recipe. 
He stated that he had used it in a great many instances, and that it 
was a sure cure for the most obstinate case of rheumatism. I think 
every one who is affected with this disease should prepare and apply 
this remedy as soon as possible. 

No. 131— A SURE CURE FOR POISON-OAK. 
Take a teaspoonful of pulverized bluestone, put it in two table- 
spoonsful of water. Make a very strong solution of bluestone water 
by stirring this thoroughly, then take a little rag mop and apply this 
solution to the parts aflected. It is best to scratch or irritate the 
broken out places on the flesh before the bluestone water is applied. 
The writer has used this remedy in many instances on hmiself for 
the last twenty-five years, and it has never failed to cure. 

No. 132— KEEP CANNED FRUIT WITHOUT AIR TIGHT CANS. 

Peel the fruit in the usual way of canning it, then add one tea- 
spoonful of salicyllic acid to every gallon of the fruit in the following 
manner: 

Put a handful of the fruit in the jar then take a pinch of the acid 
and sprinkle it over the fruit, then put in another handful of the 
fruit, and another pinch of the acid, and so on until the jar is filled 
entirely with the fruit with the acid all evenly mixed in. Then pour 
in just enough cold water to cover the fruit; then let the fruit and the 



water m the jar come to a boil by placing the jar in hot a^hes, or put- 
ting it into another ve^s>:el, with cold water in it and let it come to a 
boil. Then set the jar aside and let it cool, then take two or three 
thickues-ses of nice white or brown pai:)er and tie it tight withastriug 
around the mouth of the jar and the pr(<cess is complete. 

If the fruit is put up in stone jars it can be made to come to a boil 
bj' placing the jar near the fire with hot ashes placed around it. But 
if the fruit is put up in glass jars you will have to set the jars in an- 
other vessel with cold Avater in it'aud let this come to a boil in order 
to keep the glass from breaking. 

Salicyllic acid is made of a certain kind of willow-bark and other 
substances of a similar nature. The writer has spared neither time, 
trouble, nor expense in obtaining a correct formuia for using salicyllic 
acid in canning fruit. I have recently purchased a lxx)k paying five 
dollars for it in Philiadelphia, in oixier to karn all that was possible 
about ^icyllic acid and its use in canning fruit. The author of the 
above boolk referred to, says that a small quantity of salicyllic acid 
should be dissolved in rum and the jars or vessels rinsed out with this 
liquor before putting in the fruit. He alst) says that the paper which 
covers the jars should be dipped in the s-alicylliated rum. He sug- 
gests in another place that the acid may be di^s•olved in water instead 
of rum to rin«e out the jars, and dampen the paper for the covers. It 
strikes me from all I cim learn on this subject that one of the greatest 
advantages gained by the use of salicyllic acid is, that the frxiit can 
be kept in either sniall or large vessels without the least injury to the 
fruit, not only all kinds of fruit and berries, but all kinds of vegeta- 
bles may be preserved in the same way. 

No, 183— TO MAKE CHILE SAUCE. 

Take twelve large rii^e tomatoes, four ripe or thi-ee gi^een pep]^)ers, 
tAvo onions, two tablespoon fuls of salt, two of sugar, one of cinnamon 
and three cups of vin^ar. Peal tomatoes and onions, chop sejiarate- 
ly very fine, add pepper chopped with the other ingredients and boil 
one and a half hours. One quart of canned tomatoes may le used in- 
stead of fresh. 

No, 134— TO MAKE TOMATO SOUP, 

Take one and a half pints mashed tomatoes, one gallon water, but- 
ter size of large hen egg^ salt and ]>epper to the taste, thicken with 
flour and water made in a batter, and add one cup of sweet milk. 

No. L%— TO MAKE LEMON BUTTER. 
Take one and half cups sugar, three eggs, butter the sizeof half an 
egg; beat well together, add juice and grated rind of one large lemon, 
place in a pan, set in a kettle of hot water and stir w^ell until thick. 

No, 136— TO MAKE CAROMEL CAKE. 
Take one and half cups of sugar, three quarters cup butter, half cup 
sweet milk, two and a quarter cuj^s flour, three eggs, one and a 
half heaping teaspoonsful baking powders; bake in jelly tins. 



-34— 

Make caromel filling as follows: butter the size of an egg, one 
cup of brown sugar, half cup sweet milk or water, three tea-spoonfuls 
of grated cake chocolate. Boil twenty minutes or until thick enough, 
and pour over the cake while warm. Frosting for top of cake: whites 
of two eggs one and a half cups sugar, one teaspoonful vanilla, three 
spoonsful grated chocolate. 

No. 137— TO MAKE LEMON JELLY. 

Press the juice from the lemon and to one cup juice put two cups 
sugar, boil five minutes or until it is jelly. 

No. 138— TO FRY CHICKEN. 

Roll the pieces well in flour and put them in two tablespoonfuls of 
boiling hot lard, sprinkle over with blackpepper and put a cover over 
the pan; after both sides have browned sprinkle a little flour all in 
between the pieces and pour in a teacup full of water and steam the 
chicken until the gravy is thick enough, keeping the cover on while 
steaming These last half dozen recipes were given me by a special 
lady friend, of Smithonia, Ga., who has tried them and found them 
to be a very choice way of serving up these delicacies for table use. 

No. 139— SIMPLE AND CERTAIN CURE FOR DIARRHCEA. 

Take the outside bark of the red-oak tree, remove the moss, should 
any happen to be on it. Chew a small quantity of the bark, say a 
teaspoonful or more, and swallow it. This will give innnediate re- 
lief. My beloved pastor, the Rev. J. H. Fortson, an eminent Baptist 
divine of Hyde, Ga., gave me this last recipe, saying he had tried it 
on many occasions, and that it had never failed to give innnediate re- 
lief. This is the cheapest and simplest remedy I ever heard of, and I 
believe what he says about it as much so as if I had tried it myself a 
hundred times. 

No. 140— BEST KNOWN REMEDY FOR CONSTIPATION. 

Go to a drugstore and get an ounce of fluid extract of cascaia sa- 
grada, take from ten to fifteen drops in half wineglass of water, in- 
crease or diminish the quantity according to the etfect it has upon 
the bowels. This is one of the finest remedies known to medical 
science. This medicine is an extract of a herb grown in California. 

141_TO PREV^ENT CHOLERA AMONG HOGS AND FOWLS. 

Take one ounce of bluestone and two ounces of copperas, pulverize 
and mix, put one teaspoonful of this mixture into one quart of corn 
meal for twenty fowls. Give once every three or four week*, and of- 
tener should any disease appear among the fowls. Once, twice, or 
even three times a week, will not be too often to give them in case 
they are attacked with the cholera. Give one teaspoonful to each 
head of hogs in the same way as above prescribed lor the fowls, ex- 
cept the quantity of meal should be increased a little. Tar made 
from fat pine should be kept in the bottom of the chicken and hog 
troughs. Salt mixed in ashes and a little corn meal added, should be 
given to hogs at least once a week. If you should keep this up every 



month during the year you would have no cholera among your hogs 
and fowls. 1 get this same recipe from two different friends who 
have practiced" this mode of treatment among their hogs !?.nd fowls 
for many years, and they say they are not troul^led with any disease 
among them. 

No. 142— TO MAKE MILK YEAST LIGHT BREAD. 
Early in the morning put into a stew pan lined with porcelain or 
tin, two teacups of fresh sweet milk; let it come to a boil, then pour 
it out into a pitcher or deep bowl, add one cup of cold water, 
then add one cup of meal, and one teaspoonful of salt, then add flour 
enough to make a thin batter about the consistency of waffle batter. 
Then set it into another vessel of warm water or other moderately 
warm place for five or six hours to let it rise. Then add enough flour 
to make it nearly as thick as biscuit dough, then put it into a bread 
pan, and put it into a warm place until it rises. Then put it into the 
oven and let it bake. It will usually bake in about a half an hour. 

No. 143— TO MAKE PEA-NUT CANDY BARS. 

Boil together a cupful of light brown sugar, a cupful of New Orleans 
molasses, half a cupful of water, a tablespoonful of glucose, and a ta- 
blespoonful of butter. As soon as the syrup will harden immediately 
when dripx)ed from a spoon into cold water, add three cupsful of 
shelled, freshly roasted pea-nuts, through which has been rubbed a 
half tea'^poonful of soda. Pour the candy into buttered shallow tin 
pans, smooth the top nicely, and when nearly cold cut with a sharp 
buttered knife into inch-wide bars. After parching and shelling the 
peanuts, rub them between the palms of the hands to clean the husks 
off before applying the half- teaspoonful of soda. If it is not conveni- 
ent to get the glucose it will work all right without it. 

No. 144— TO MAKE COCOANUT BARS. 
Place in the kettle two cupfuls of granulated sugar, half a cupful of 
water, a tablespoonful of glucose, and a piece of butter the size of a 
hickory nut. Boil until nearly done, and then add two cupfuls of 
sliced or grated cocoanut that has been partly dried. Now boil the 
candy until it will snap when dropped in cold water, pour into but- 
tered' tins and when cool cut into bars. 

No. 145— TO MAKE POP CORN BALLS. 

Place together in the kettle five pounds sugar, pound and a half of 
glucose and a quart of water. Boil until nearly hard enough for tafly 
or until it threads from the spoon. Pour the syrup over the nicely 
popped corn, stir the whole thoroughly and form into balls with the 
hands. This recipe will be found preferable when a great number of 
balls are to be made, but the followmg is advised for family use when 
only a small quantity is needed. 

No. 146— TO MAKE POP CORN BALLS. No. 2. 
Boil together without stirring a pint of sugar, a fourth of a teacup- 



—36— 
ful of rain water, a tablespoonful of vinegar and half a feasponful of 
butter. Wlien the syrup will snap on being tested in water, pour it 
immediately over the corn and stir with the paddle for a minute or 
so. Then dip the hands into very cold water and press the pop corn 
into the balls, dipping the hands In the water before forming each 
ball. In this way the balls may be shaped before the candy hardens 
on the corn. The above named quantities are suflticient for a peck of 
poppetJ corn and will make ten balls. The corn nmst be carefully 
preimred and all imi>erfectly popped or scorched grains thrown out. 
The appearance of the ball may be greatlj^ improved by cutting cir- 
cular portions of bright colored tissue paper the size of a pie plate, 
fringing the edges an inch deep all round, and placing one on each 
bally pressing it carefully so it will stay. This will not only add to 
the beauty of the balls, but will also prevent them sticking to the 
hands. The balls should be placed in a cold room as soon as finished 
as the pop corn is likely to become tough if allowed to remain in a 
warm place. 

These four last candy recipes w^ere given me by a gentleman in the 
the mercantile business at Danburg, Ga., who has tried them with 
much success. The pop corn balls only cost him a cent and a half 
apiece and he readily sells them for 5 cents a ball. 

No. 147— TO MAKE OLD-FIELD PINE POSTS LAST MANY 

YEARS, 
Cut and split the posts about the usual size of garden posts, and 
stack them up on their ends for a couple of w^eeks or longer. Then 
build a good log heap fire and put in a few posts at a time turning- 
tliem over frequently until charcoal is formed all over from end to 
end about lialf inch thick. Then plant them in the ground in the 
usual w^ay; then nail on your plank or wire as the case may be, and 
you will be surprised to see how long they will last. 

No, 148— TO MAKE 20 GALLONS OF WINE FUOM ONE 
BUSHEL OF FRUIT. 

Take one bushel nice ripe berries, place them in a clean tub and 
mash them up thoroughly; let them stand 30 to 36 hours to ferment; 
then press or squeeze out all the juice through a coarse cloth or bag; 
then strain the juice again to have it pure. Then put into a separate 
wooden vessel 14 gallons of boiling water, and add to this one pound 
of tartaric acid and 50 pounds of granulated sugar. Take a clean 
stick and stir thoroughly for ten minutes or until the sugar and acid 
are well dissolved. Then pour in the fruit juice and stir for a mo- 
ment. Then pour this into a 20 gallon cask,and if the cask is not full 
fill it up with cold water. Make bung tight and shake well. Then 
place the cask in a cellar or other cool place, and the wine will be 
ready for use in 2 months; and like all other wine the older it becomes 
the better it will be. 

Wine should always be made in a cellar to obtain the best article. 
It would be much better to boil the water in a brass or porcelain ket- 



—37— 

tie. However, we used a common large wash-pot after having 
scoured it thoroughly with soap and sand. 

For this wine recipe alone we gave five dollars, and have not re- 
gretted our purchase, as it is well worth the price. 

The tartaric acid of commerce is obtained from "Argol" or "Tartar " 
which IS the product of fermentation of grape juice. It is salt or sek- 
iment formed on the sides and in the bottom of wine vats. About 
nine hundred tons annually of this substance are imported into 
^reat^Britian from the chief wine-producing countries of Europe and 
from the cape of Good Hope. Tartaric acid is much employed in med- 
*^/2^-'i^-^ ® preparation of effervescing draughts, in the composition 
of beidntz powders and for many other purposes. 

It has been stated that persons addicted to habitual drunkenness 
have been reclaimed by the following treatment: A few crystals of 
this acid are dissolved in two small tumblers of water, and taken in 
the morning fasting an hour between the first and second tumbler. 
1 lie painful feeling of sinking and craving of the stomach that such 
persons complain of, is said to be removed by these draughts. -See 
Tartar'' m Cliambers Encyclopedia, vol IX. The retail pdce of tar- 
taric acid IS fifty cents per pound, and when purchased in ten pound 
lots from the wholesale drug stores it can be bought at thirty-five 
cents per pound. *^ 

In concluding this subject we have this to say: Of all the recipes 
we have gathered and put in this little book, we have very much 
doubted the propriety of placing this wine recipe before the public: 
for while we believe wine to be a great blessing to men when rio-htlv 
used such things are often turned into a curse when wrongly used 
We think, however, a small cask of wine would be a useful thinjr to 
have in every household. To take a half wine glass or less quantity 
every morning half an hour before breakfast during the early spring 
months is quite an aid to digestion, and would ward off many di£ 
eases. VVe think this can be proven to a certain extent by Scripture. 
See I Timothy 5th chap, and 23rd verse. ^ 

No. 149-ANOTHER PLAN TO TIGHTEN BUGGY TIRES 
WITHOUT THE AID OF A BLACKSMITH. 
After the tires have become loose, prop up both axles and raise all 
the wheels about two inches from the ground, place a small wooden 
trough or other suitable vessel under each wheel, sufficiently laro-e 
and deep enough to hold a quart. Then pour one quart of linseed oil 
m each trough, revolve the ^vheels slowly in the oil several times ev- 
ery hour for one or two days. This will cause the wooden felloes to 
absorb the oil and swell up tight against the tires. This idea will 
work splendidly on new vehicles which have been in use for six or 
eight months and the tires have become loose from wearing during 
the hot summer months. The oil thus soaked in the felloes will ex- 
elude dampness and prevent them from wearing and loosening again 
soon. 



No. 150— KEMEDY FOR SOREHEAD AMONG FOWL.'^, 
Take an ounce of carbolic acid and mix it with four ounces of wa- 
ter; shake w^ell. Apply this to the soreheads and other sores about 
fowls once or twice a day and they will soon be cured. Tliis makes a 
^ood application to put on sores on fowls, aninmls and jyeople too.. 
Apply the solution with a rag mop. 

Carbolic acid which is made of coal tar is one of the most wonder- 
ful discoveries of modern times. Every householder should have a 
bottle of carbolic acid at hand. It is a great disinfectant, and is an- 
useful in a household as spirits of turpentine or any other kind of 
spirits that peop'e may make use of 

No. 151— TO SHRINK WAGON AND BUGGY TIRES WITH- 
OUT THE AID OF A BEACKSMITH. 
When the tires have become loose from wearing take them off the 
wheels and get some coarse cloth,, such as osnaburgs, old cofiee or 
guano sacks. Tear them up into narrow strips about an inch wider 
than the tires; wet the cloth strips thoroughly with water, then 
stretch them evenly and tightly around the felloes of the wheels, and 
secure the strips with small tacks or thread wrapped around them on 
the felloes. Then pour more water around on the rim of the wheels 
to keep the cloth thoa-ouglil^^ wet, while the tires are heating near by 
with a dry wood or oak-bark tire. When the tires have attained a 
low cherry-red heat place them over the cloth on the wheels (one at a 
time,) and put the bolts back in the same holes they came out of. 
Keep enough water pjuring on the wheels to prevent the cloth from 
burning while tires are cooling. You will have to exercise your best 
judgment as to the number of layers of cloth it may require around 
the felloes in order to get the tires just as tight as they should be. 
This can sooii be ascertained by a little experience. Where the tires- 
are quite loose it may require -three or even four strij)s one over the 
other. After the tires have cooled off, cut away all the cloth even 
with them, and the job will be complete. We have known for twen- 
ty year's this plan of shrinking tires, and when the work is properly- 
done it will last fully a-^ long as if it were done the old way by a reg- 
ular blacksmith. This plan for shrinking tires is well worth a dollar 
to any one who may have to shrink them, as it seems any man can 
do the work. 

No. 152— TO MAKE CIDER ANY SEASON OF THE YEAR^ 
That Sells Readily at Five Cents a Glass. 

Take five pounds nice dried fruit and boil it till it is thoroughly 
done, keeping the water two or three inches over the fruit, and stir- 
ring it well all the while it is cooking to prevent the fruit from burn- 
ing. After the fruit has boiled sufficiently take it off of the fire and 
let it cool; then put it into a coarse cloth or bag and squeeze out all 
the juice. Then put ten gallons of boiling water into a clean wooden 
vessel, add fifteen pounds granulated sugar, half pound tartaric acid, 
stir well with a clean stick, till sugar and acid are thoroughly dis- 



— 3^— 

SDlved. Tlien add in the juice and enout^li cold water to nin"ke fifteen 
gallons in all. Put in a jug or cask, cork tight and it will be ready 
■for use in 24 hours. Should you use eight or t^n pounds of truit in- 
stead of five its quality would be trreatly improved. We have made 
several gallons of this cider by boiling half-pound drier! apples, press- 
ing out the juice, adding half-ounce tartaric acid, one pound granu- 
lated sugar, and enough boiling water to make one gallon in alT; then 
stirring the w^hole until the acid and sugar are all well di&^olved. 
Cork tight in a jug for twenty-four hours, when it is ready for use. A 
wine glass full of this cider taken each morning half "hour iDcfore 
breakfast is a great aid to digestion; it is a great apix-tizer, tones up 
the stomach and all the digestive organs, and causes th« inner man 
to feel quite refreshed. People off at a distance make this cider, then 
add in a gallon or two of wine or something a little stronger than 
wine, then sell it to merchants for seventy-five cents a gallon at whole- 
sale. And the retail merchants sell it for about twice that amount. 
The principle on which this cider is made is identically the same as 
the twenty gallons of wine to one bushel of blackberries, or grapes, is 
made, except two and a half to three pounds of sugar to the gallon is 
i-ised in making the wine. 

No, loa-TO PREVENT YOUNG TREES FROM DYING, 

To Prevent Young Fruit and Shade Trees from Dying on Account 

of Dry Weather. 

Before filling up the hole with rich dirt and manure when the 
young tree is to be planted, put a short piece of round or split wood 
in one corner of the hole and let it come about six inches above the 
ground. This stick should be about four inches in diameter. When 
the weather becomes very dry pull this stick up and ix)ur several 
buckets of water in the ifole. Then put the stick of wood back in the 
hole again. This gets the water to the bottom of the roots where it 
will do the most good. 

No. 154— BEST WAY TO GIVE A HORSE MEDICINE. 

Mix the medicine with a little corn meal and put it in a table spoon, 
pull out the horse's tongue and put medicine on root of tongue, and 
he will be compelled to swallow^ it. Never drench a horse with a bot- 
tle if you can get around doing so, and under no circumstances should 
a hoi-se be drenched in the nose as this will cause him to cough for a 
month afterwards. In giving a horse condition powders they should 
always be given on the root of his tongue with a spoon after you have 
pulled his tongue out as far as possible. 

155.— TO ISIAKE A BRILLIANT WHITEWASH WITH LIME, 

Take a large vvashpot and fill it two-thirds full of water, then add 
to this half a bushel nice wdiite well slacked lime, also one pinr, of 
fresh sweet milk just from the cow, also two pounds nice wdiire salt, 
one pint nice white granulated sugar, one pint best white wdieat 
flour, one pint well boiled rice. Stir these all well together with a 
ttick, then build a tire around the pot and boil it for at least halfau 



—40— 

hour, keeping the mixture well stirred while the boiMng is going on, 
and apply with a regular whitewash brush while hot; keep enough 
water pouring into it to keep it about the consistency of buttermilk. 
We hare several houses whitewashed which was done six j^ears ago 
and they look quite new at a distance now. We guarantee this re- 
cipe for making white wash to be a number one formula. 

No. 156— TO TEMPER SPRINGS FOR GUNS AND OTHER 
IMPLEMENTS. 

After the spring has been finished with the file, tie it on the end of 
a small piece of wire in order to hold it by the tongs. Put the spring 
into the fire and let it all come to a uniform cherry red heat, then 
dip it into a cup of melted lard or machine oil; let it remain in the 
oil until the oil quits frying or boiling, then take it out and lay it 
back in the fire but do not blow the forge, and when the oil on the 
spring catches in a blaze hold it up about three inches from the fire 
till all the oil is burned off; ]ay it to one side till it is cool and then 
place it in the gun. We have made many gun springs and have not 
often failed to give a splendid temper after going through the above 
process. 

No. 157— TO PROTECT FRUIT TREES. 

To prevent rabbits from biting and insects trom boring into fruit 
trees. Take one quart slaked lime, one pint sulphur and a fourth of 
a pound of cheap snufF. Mix all together, put in enough boiling wa- 
ter to make it about the consistency of buttermilk, and wash the trees 
well with this solution from two to three inches below the surface of 
the ground and up to tlie first limbs. You will have to remove the 
soil at the root of the trees, apply the solution and place the soil back 
around the trees. This is a good thing to keep your trees in a thrifty 
condition. Apply the solution after it gets cold. 

No. 158— FAT LIGHTWOOD FROM OLD FIELD PINE. 
To Make an Abundance of Fat Lightwood from old field or Sec- 
ond Growth Pines. 
Take either a sharpened Scovill weeding hoe, pole-ax, drawing 
knife, flat spade or other suitable instrument, go out among the pines 
and skin off* nearly all the bark, leaving only a narrow^ strip about 
four inches wide on the north side. Skin oflT the bark as high up as 
you can reacli it for ten feet or more. The best time to do this is in 
the fall or m inter months By doing the work at this season of the 
year more of the wood will turn to lightwood. I know an old gentle- 
man who went around selling the patent for making lightwood this 
way, about twenty-fiye years ago. 

No. 159— TO TEMPER MILL PICKS. 

In the first place the picks should be made of a very fine article of cast 

steel, forge them out and file them to an edge as you wish them to be 

finished; then get about a gallon of water and an old can of some sort. 

and put about two pounds of salt in it and stir well to dissolve the 



41 

salt. Then plunge a pair of hot tongs or other iron in it to make the 
water hot. Then bring the pick to a cherry red heat and hold the 
end of the blade half an inch in the water for a moment to harden it 
to a wiiite color. Then hold the pick to one side until the heat in the 
body of the pick shall bring the color in the point to a good straw^ or 
nearly a blue color, then dip in the water again. The writer has 
tempered a grreat many in this way. Do not strike j'our piclv with a 
hammer on the face or^end while drawing it out. 

No. 160— A NEVER FAILING REMEDY FOR HORSE COLIC. 
Procure a pint of spirits of turpentine, hold up the horse's foot, 
clean out frog of foot, and pour in the turpentine; repeat this opera- 
tion two or three times as quickly as possible so as to get the turpen- 
tine soaked up in his feet. This will cause the horse to stamp and 
paw around which will cause a relaxation of the contracted or con- 
gested condition of the intestines. This will certainly cure horse col- 
ic in less than half an hour. There would be nothing amiss in mix- 
ing a teaspoonful of the turpentine with the same (luantity of corn 
meal and putting it on the root of his tongue, as this is a good remedy 
for the s-ame disease. If you do not already know of this remedy af- 
ter you have tried it a few times j^ou will never regret the price you 
paid for this little book. 

TO INC^REASE THE YIELD OF WHEAT 20 to 50 per cent. 
vSelect poorest in field, or seive your wheat and ge^t faulty grains. 
This plan is followed by Mr. Augustus Dozier, a prosperous' farmer of 
Oglethorpe Co. Messrs. Wm. House, M. L. Heard and P. E. Wil- 
liamson of Wilkes county, also endorse this plan. Mr. William House 
says a mill owner, Mr. Thomas Carle, once told iiim that a man from 
Elbert county came to his mill and got the waste cleanings around 
the smut machine;the man saying "he wanted it to sowfora grazing 
lot for stock." Tlie wheat came up and looked so pretty and fine 
that he concluded to let it stand till maturity to see what it would do, 
and to his great astonishment the three bushels of faulty wheat, made 
07 bushels of good wheat. 

CORN SHELLER, cheap l^ut very serviceable. It is the "Black 
Hawk corn sheller." Half dozen can be purchased, by clubbing, at 
11.75 apiece. They are easy to handle and answer almost as well as 
any other cornshefler. Write to A. H. Patch, Clarksville, Tenn. 

YOU CAN FIND A SURE CURE FOR PILES, liver complaint, 
constipation and many other diseases of the bowels, more especially 
a cure for internal and external piles. This is the finest remedy 
known to medical science for these diseases, and all who are subject 
to them should know where to find this excellent medicine. 
It is an old remedy, first prepared in 1849. It is Dr. Upham's Vege- 
table Electuary, a sure cure for the joiles. It is a little cake 2 by 3 
inches square, price ^1 a box. After an intense sufferer from these 
disorders has tried this medicine doubtless he will not only thank 
the author of this little book for giving tiiis information, but will be 



42 
ready to exclaim "I would not take five times its value and be with- 
out this most excellent remedy." Write to Dr. A. Upham, No. 39 
(old number 387) East Fourth st. N. Y. City. 

BOOK HOUSE, cheap though excellent. Write to Crawford & 
Co., publishers, 47 North Ninth street, Phila., Pa. Ask for their il- 
lustrated catalogue. You can get a full set of Chambers Encyclope- 
dia often large volumes, for $11.50. Also Charles Dickens complete 
works for $5.25; and various other works from ten cents to $3. 

WHERE TO FIND A MILLWRIGHT who can build and repair 
flour mills, corn mills, saw mills &c. Also will sell you mill rocks, 
bolting cloths, smut machines, the gearing and all other fixtures 
about mills, cotton gins, presses &c. Also gold mine machinery such 
as stamp mills, concentrators, and amalgamators. Write to the un- 
dersigned, the author of this book. He will serve you in this capaci- 
ty if possible. J. D. Heard, Washington, Ga. 

Any infrinffement on this book or any part of it, will be punished to the full ex- 
tent of the law. 



LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 




013 514 832 5 







r-^ 



*^^ 
% 






