LIBRARY- OF CONGRESS. 



Slielf.iB.5iJ 



UNITED STATES OF AMERICA. 



KSaST 



tt£S 



W% 









perfection 



►gs— *I N£=^f 




A KING, -f 



j7 

BY EMIL BRAUN. 



General Rules and Instructions on all Branches of Ameri- 
can Baking, carefully selected, each part containing 
many new theories and new ways of compos- 
ing recipes, and furthering the culinary education of the 
professional as well as the housekeeper. 

PRICE, $1.00. 



FIRST E 



COPYRIGHTED 18l>rJ, 
BY 

J. -BRAUN. 



DITION. £i/ / 



PUBLISHED AT UTICA, N. Y., 1893. 









HAZARD'S^ 






Made in France, is superior to any 
other brand. 




Jellies and Cold Desserts are very liberally prescribed 
for convalescents and the sick, but seldom enjoyed on ac- 
count of the disagreeable gluey taste which almost all 
gelatines possess. Our 

*Hf)x grand gelatine^ 

is absolutely free from the above objection. It is also com- 
mended on account of its nutrition and economy. One 
trial will convince the most skeptical. 

KG. HAZARD & GO., 

nje;w YORK. 



^REFAGE. 



TJV no other land has the flaking and consumption of bakestuffs, 
grown to such an extent as it has within the past few years 
in this prosperous and wonderful country. Even in the household 
of the most humble workman, or in the mansion of the rich and 
prosperous merchant, the American cook and housewife is generally 
more praised and esteemed for the good bread, pastry and deserts, 
than for all the meat cooking. In looking over the numerous cook- 
books that are now placed so freely before the fublic, the inexperi- 
enced can find no way of learning how or why the recipes read as 
they do. (Before any success in baking can be expected, the cook, 
baker or housewife must be educated to all the particulars of the 
materials they are about to use. 

It shall be the main object of this work, in plain language 
to show all who are interested as well as the professional, how to be- 
come successful in baking '• the theories of 'how to put together and 
how to change recipes, when the same grades or brands of materi- 
als are not on hand. Judgement and common sense must be dis- 
played to insure success. (Did you ever hear a woman say " I 
had good luck to-day with my cakes," but alas the next time, " Oh I 
had such bad luck with my baking ?" There it is, one day good 
luck, the next time ashamed to show the result of her labor and 
all the good materials are wasted. It is the lack of theoretical 
knowledge about the baking, that brings the bad hick, and many a 
professional baker is not able to explain the real cause of the mis- 
hap. The theories hereafter laid out plainly before the reader, are 
all the results of careful, practical experiments , and are based upon 
accomplished facts. 

(Being confident of the success of my efforts in demonstra- 
ting some new and practical points, to all interested in baking and 
wishing to prepare delicious deserts, I shall herewith give part of a 
series of month dy issues, each part treating upon a different branch 

in the art of baking. 

EMIL BRAUN. 




*r fy^ 



UNiTLD CTATLO PATENT - - MARCH 4TH 1890. 



DOMINION OF CANADA PATENT, MAY 20, 1891. 



.CREAM TARTAR, Parts 67 / MIX AND 

VGSUflWIjAJ UICAKRONATE SODA, (Sufficient to Neutralize) 29 to 31 VTHOKOIJCSHLY 

4) CC~ 



SUGAR OF MILK, 



COMMINUTE. 



Its Leavening Power is from 15.2 to 15.4 per ct. 

THE DISCOVERY AND USE OF SUGAR OF MILK AS A KEEPER 
affords a leavening possibility otherwise unattainable. No other manufacturer 
can possibly bring his product to so high a standard. 

Our Claims Unmanly or Unfair? 

Tumbler No. 1 contains One Teaspoonful of 

Thatcher's Baking Powder, 

and is filled with Roiling water. It snows no 

sediment and is PURE. 

Tumbler No. 2 contains One Teaspoonful of a 

High Priced and Highly Advertise! 

Raking- Powder, claiming' to be Pure, and is 
filled with Roiling Water. It shows stuffing. 
WE CLAIM, AND WILL 

DEPOSIT CASH TO DEFEND, 

1st, That NO BAKING POWDER WHICH 
DEPOSITS SEDIMENT IS AS HIGH IN 
LEAVENING POWER AS OURS. 

2d. We will submit Thatcher's Raking 
Powder, in connection with others, to Gov- 
nt Chemists, State Chemists, College Professors and Scientists, and, if by analy- 
not found to contain 

Pure Cream Tartar 

and to be HIGHER IN LEAVENING POWER 

Than others, we will pay all expense incurred. We will pay our share anyway. What manu- 
facturers will help form the committee and share in the laurels lost or won? 

H. D. Thatcher & Co., Potsdam, N. Y. 





ERNME 

sis it is 



PART I. 



Prepared Seasoning-, About Flour tor Pies, Pie Paste, American 
Putt" Paste, French Putt" Paste, Vienna Tart Paste, Pies, Tarts, 
Cream Pastry, French Pastry. 



PREPARED SEASONING. 

Not only in large hotels but also in every household, is wasted daily, 
quantities of that delicate flavor, the peel of lemon. How often are lemons 
cut up, when in a moments time the rind could be grated and saved for future 
use, put in a glass jar and everytime sprinkled over with a little sugar and a 
few drops of water to keep moist. In this way you can have, free of cost, 
lemon fljivor, all the year round. Two tablespoonsfull of this lemon peel, 
two cups of brown Sugar, one tablespoon of cinnamon, one of allspice, one- 
half a nutmeg, grated; mix all together, and keep in a can in a cool place 
always ready for use. 

FLOUR FOR PIES. 

If you have a very strong spring patent flour it is better (also cheaper) 
to use good pastry flour (winter wheat) for pies and pastry , Parker's Best 
is not too strong, therefore can be recommended for a general family flour, 
where no extra flour is on hand for pastry, but then the pie crust mu*i be 
mixed a little moister. 

HOW TO PREPARE PIES. 

Pie plates should always be greased, (with butter), then dusted with 
flour, or what is better, cracker dust, this prevents the pie from tasting 
greasy after standing a day of two, never have too rich a pie crust for 
the bottom, and always roll out very thin. For apple and fresh fruit pies, 



6 

generally, it is advisable to dust the pie crusts with crackerdust before filling 
with the fruit, as this absorbs the juice of the fruit while baking. If fresh 
fruit pies are to be packed in lunch baskets, the following is a very valuable 
recipe: Mix the berries or other fruit as soon as picked, with sufficient sugar, 
a little water, and put away if possible, over night; before using, drain off" tho 
juice, and cook it adding three tablespoons of corn starch to every pint of 
juico, then add the fruit, mix and it is ready for use. This pie will cut like 
jelly. Brown sugar is very good for pies and gives a nice flavor. 

COMMON FIE PASTE. 

Mix one pound of flour with three-quarters of a pound of lard and but- 
ter, and one-half teaspoon of salt together dry, then moisten with enough ice 
water to have it hold together, but do not work any more than necessary, and 
if time allows, let rest on ice before using, that is the secret of a tender pie 
crust; working it too much make what you so often find, shoeleatlier 
pies. If you want a cheaper crust for the bottom, use less shortening; al- 
ways wash pies on top with milk before baking, this gives it a lively and ap- 
petising color; if the oven bakes slow from the top, add a pinch of salt to the 
milk you wash tho pies with. 

AMERICAN PUFF PASTE. 

One pound of butter washed good in ice water and one pound of 
Parkor's Best or good pastry flour, mix very light together with one ounce 
of baking powder, (Thatcher's is my favorite for biscuits and pastry), one egg 
one teaspoon of salt and enough ice water to make a smooth paste, same as 
you make for tea biscuits; roll out once about eighteen inches long, ten inches 
wide, turn in the ends to meet in the middle and double again, let rest in ice 
box or cellar for an hour, and repeat this until rolled out four times. For 
tarts and patties, roll out one-quarter of an inch in thickness, cut out with 
biscuit cutter, lay on clean cookie tins, (not greased) and if time allows, let 
rest awhile in cold place before baking. When ready for the oven, dip the 
top of a small wine glass or biscuit cutter in hot water and press in the cen- 
ter of each tart, press down to near the bottom of the paste; bake in a hot 
ovon, when baked, cut the center all out with sharp pen knife and they are 
roady to fill. This paste is very valuable for the American cook, so as to be 
able to make patty shells with success, while it takes a great deal more expe- 
rience to make French Puff Paste. 



FRENCH PUFF PASTE. 

Wash in ice water, one pound of butter until smooth, to ono pound of 
flour add one-quarter of the butter, one-half teaspoon cream of tartar or Royal 
baking powder, one egg, one teaspoon salt, mix all together with ice water 
(about one-half pint) into smooth dough, let rest awhile then roll out in a 
long strip, break the rest of the butter into small pieces (size of walnut) and 
lay all over the dough, then turn the end from the left end, one third over, 
then the other end over this, then roll out carefully, ono-half inch thick, using 
no more flour for dusting than is necessary, and turn over liko American Puff 
Paste, roll five times and if butter is very rich, you can cut short say one 
ounce to the pound of flour. 

VIENNA TART PASTE. 

Chop fine, 10 ounces of washed butter with one pound of pastry flour 
or Parker's Best, six ounces of sugar, one tablespoon of pie seasoning, then 
mix with three eggs into light paste. This paste is very extensively used as 
crust for these delicious, large fruit and cream tarts in Europe. If convenient, 
use six yolks of eggs in place of three wholo eggs, as this makes the paste 
more smooth. 

EVAPORATED AND DRIED FRUITS. 

By following instructions as given here, you will be surprised at the ex- 
cellent results. Never soak any pie fruit over night. To one quart of boiling 
water, add one-half pound of berries, apples or apricots, one-half teaspoon salt, 
cook ten minutes until swelled up good, add throe-quarters of a pound of 
granulated sugar, one teaspoon butter; cook five minutes longer, then stir in- 
to this, two ounces or five tablespoons of corn starch, dissolved in a little cold 
water, stir quickly a few moments and set away to cool. This I guarantee to 
make the most delicate pies from any dried fruits. If fruit is very tart, like 
apricots, add a little more sugar; with apricots you can always cook some 
apples, as apricots are almost too rich ; some of the ready pie seasoning can be 
used to advantage in most all pies. This mixture can be made in larger quan- 
tities and put away in cans or jars as it keeps. 

CUSTARD PIES. 

FOR THREE PIES. 

Line deep pie plates very thin with plain paste, fill with custard and 
bake about twenty minutes. Custard : Beat up six eggs with four ounces 



8 

of powdered sugar, one tablespoon of melted butter, one-half teaspoon salt 
add two ounces of flour, one teaspoon of any extract you wish, three pints 
fresh milk; strain all together and bake twenty minutes. This mixture is 
also fine for cup custard; bake about fifteen minutes. 

LEMON PIE. 

Boil one quart water with one cup of apples, (canned, fresh or dried ap- 
ples,) three-quarters of a pound of granulated sugar, until apples are soft, 
then stir into it three ounces (or five tablespoons) of dissolved corn starch ; 
take off the stove and when cool add five to six eggs, one-half teaspoon salt, 
three lemon juice, two grated lemon peel, one tablespoon butter; strain all 
through a cullender, and fill into pie dishes lined with plain pie crust. If you 
want French lemon pie, line flat pie dish with American puff paste, scallop 
the edge with your fingers or a knife; fill in the cream and lay four bars of 
the same paste over the top and four more crosswise over them. This is the 
finest lemon pie found in twenty years practice. 

PUMPKIN OR Ml A t Ml PIES. 

FOR THREE PIES. 

Cut up and boil one-half of a small pumpkin soft, strain off water good 
and press the dry meat through cullender. Beat up six eggs with six 
ounces of powdered sugar, one-half teaspoon salt, one tablespoon ginger, one- 
half nutmeg, then add the pumpkin and one quart of milk, one tablespoon 
melted butter; this is enough for three large pies; strain all through cullen- 
der again; fill in deep pie dishes lined with plain pie paste; bake like custard 
pie, twenty to thirty minutes. As soon as pie is up above the rim of the 
plate it is generally done; if bottom is not quite baked, then set on top of hot 
stove a few seconds to finish bottom, the same rule is for custard pie. To 
make sure that if any kind of custard pie is done, stick a knife through the 
pie, and if it pulls out without any custard or milky paste sticking to it, the 
pie is done. 

CREAM PIES. 

MIXTURE FOR TWO PIES. 

Boil one quart milk with one-haif pound of sugar (one cup), stir into 
this quickly while boiling, four tablespoons of corn starch, mixed with two or 
three eggs, one teaspoon of any extract, a little butter may be added; you 



9 

may also use grated lemon or orange peel, or two ounces of chocolate as re- 
quired, line a flat pie dish with American puft' paste, dust good with cracker 
dust or flour, press another same size pie dish on top of the paste and set in 
the oven, when about half done take top dish off and bake until done, pour in 
cream and set away to cool. 

CREAM MERINGUE PIE. 

Beat only the whites of three eggs to stiff froth, mix into it light, one 
small cup of powdered sugar, sifted, spread this over the cream and dust with 
a little sugar, brown in the oven about three minutes. 

PEACH MERINGUE. 
EUROPEAN STYLE. VERY DELICIOUS. 

Cut up about six ripe peaches (skin them) in thin slices, mix with one 
cup powdered sugar and divide on twelve deep saucers, then cover over with 
meringue, same as for cream meringue pie. If you have canvas bag and tube 
you can ornament a little on top. Any other fresh fruit may be used the 
same way, only no berries. 

MINCE MEAT FOR PIES. 

Two pounds of apples, chopped fine, one-half pound of washed cur- 
rants, one pound of boiled beef, (lean), chopped fine, half-pound citron and 
orange peel, two lemons, grated and the juice, one pound raisins, (if time al- 
lows, stone them,) one pound of brown sugar, one-half nutmeg, two ounces 
mixed ground spices, add either brandy, wine or cider to taste, and add 
enough of the beef broth to moisten good. 

RUSSIAN SPICE PIE. 

Line flat pie dish with common pie crust, and spread thin with any 
kind of jelly or jam, mix all together; one cup of bread or cake crumbs, sifted, 
one-half cup of lard, one cup of molasses, one-half cup of sour cream or water, 
one small teaspoon of saleratus, one egg, one-half cup of washed currants, a 
little chopped citron, a little lemon and vanilla extract, one tablespoon of cin- 
namon or pie seasoning, mix all together and thicken with enough soft pastry 
flour to have a soft paste, fill this on top the jelly and bake slow, when 
baked, dust with powdered sugar. This pie is very fine when a few days old. 



10 

rREXCH 9IADELAOE PIE OK TARTS. 

Line pie dish or tart mould with American puff paste, spread with jelly. 
Stir together light: one cup sugar, one-half cup of sweet almonds, pounded 
very fine, and six yolks of eggs or three eggs, then add two tablespoons of 
melted butter, three-quarters of a cup of flour, (pastry), one-half teaspoon of 
baking powder, if too stiff, add a little milk or cream, fill in the dish, roll out 
a piece of the paste, cut in narrow strips one-quarter inch thick, and lay across 
the top of pic, close together, bake by moderate heat, half an hour, if it colors 
too soon on top, cover with a strong paper which you have greased first. 

RICE PIE. 

Line plate same as for custard pie. One cup of rice, boiled very soft 
with one-half teaspoon of salt; beat light, four eggs with one-half cup of sugar, 
add the rice, one-half nutmeg, little lemon or cinnamon, and quart of milk or 
cream, two tablespoons of butter; press all through fine cullender twice 
and bake like custard pie. 

SOUTHERN CUSTARD OR POTATO PIE. 

Boil or bake four good potatoes and take the skins off, beat up with five 
ounces of powdered sugar and five eggs, then add one ounce of flour, one and 
one-half quarts of milk, one-half nutmeg, grated, one-half teaspoon salt, one 
tablespoon melted butter, strain all through cullender, fill in lined pie plates 
and bake like custard. Sweet potatoes or carrots can be used the same way. 
Very fine pies. You may also steam the potatoes until mealy but not watery. 

RHUBARB PIE. 

Got your rhubarb cleaned and cut in strips one inch long the night be- 
fore and mix good with sufficient sugar. Next morning strain juice off and 
set on fire; when boiling add the rhubarb; boil about two minutes, stir two 
ounces (three good tablespoons) corn starch into it and take off to cool. A 
little cinnamon improves it greatly. Gooseberries are prepared the same 
way. 

EIROPEAH CHERRY PIE. 
FLAMKI, VERY DELICIOUS. 

Line a flat pie dish or layer cake tin with American puff paste, dtist 
good With cracker dust and cover the bottom with one layer of stoned cher" 



11 

ries, and bake half clone; pour over the following cremc, and put back in oveft 
fivo to seven minutes longer. Creme: four egg yolks, three ounces sugar, lit- 
tle cinnamon, two ounces of flour, mix all together, then add one-half pint of 

sour cream. 

APPLE FLAHRI TARTS. 

Line flat pie dishes witn Vienna tart paste, make side with extra thick 
rim, dust with cracker meal, cut apples in thin slices, lay them closely to- 
gether, covering the paste with one layer, sprinkle with sugar, pie seasoning, 
currants, fine citron and almonds and bake half done; pour over this the same 
mixture as above. Peaches and plums may be used the same way, but no 

berries. 

IMPERIAL. CURRANT PIE Atf» TARTS. 

Line one large flat cake tin with Vienna tart paste, make rim extra 
thick, fill with following mixture and bake slow ; beat five whites of eggs very 
stiff, adding six ounces of powdered sugar, little at a time, after the eggs are 
stiff, add two ounces of chopped almonds and half pint of sour cream; finally 
add one pint picked red currants. In winter, use a pint can of preserved cur- 
rants or one pound of washed English currants. This is the genuine recipe 
from German imperial Court Confectionery, and will repay hundred-fold for 
the little extra care and trouble required in its preparation. 

VABfiLLA CREAM TARTS. (Imperial.) 

Line dish with Vienna tart paste, make rim double thickness and bake. 
Beat four whites of eggs very stiff, adding six ounces of sugar, a little at a 
time, then mix in the four yolks and two tablespoons of dissolved gelatine 
with one tablespoon of vanilla extract or vanilla sugar, pour into the baked 
pie crusts and set away in ice box until wanted. In the place of vanilla any 
other flavor or rind and juice of lemon or orange may be used. 

FRENCH TARTLET*. 
Line patty moulds or flat tartlet dishes with American puff paste; dust 
good with flour, fill with dried beans or split peas and bake, then pour out all 
the beans (and save them for the next time) and fill the shells with any jam, 
jelly or cream. These shells may be used for oyster patties also. 

METROPOLITAN CREAM OR JELLY TARTS. 

Line moulds as above and fill with jelly or cream and bake, then make 
a light meringue, spread over the tarts and put back in oven until browned 
over the top. 



12 



Golden ftuks for Pie Bafcmg. 

All fresh fruit should be mixed with sugar before filling 
in pies. A little butter increases the delicacy. 



All pie dishes should be greased and then dusted with 
cracker meal. 



Save all your broken crackers, dry them, pound fine 
and save for pies. 



Always follow our general rules and change flavors to 
suit yourself. Every one of our recipes can be used with 
different fruits, flavors and names changed, but follow the 
instructions otherwise. 



Trick the top crust on every pic to let the steam escape. 
When using fresh fruit, insert in center of top crust a small 
round tube of tin or strong paper, through which all steam 
will escape like through a chimney. 



13 



Never use soft butter or lard for pic crust. Always 
wash butter in ice water. 



The recipe for American Puff Paste, if made as di- 
rected, will be worth more than the price of this book to 
any cook or housewife. 



Huckleberries and blueberries should always be mixed 
with some apples, either fresh or canned, to increase flavor. 



Good corn starch can be used in a great many ways in 
pie baking, but only the best will give satisfaction. I am 
using Kingsford's Oswego Starch wherever possible, and 
recommend same as most reliable. 



Always keep a can of the prepared pie seasoning on 
hand, as this will increase delicacy of flavor of most every 
pie. 



Never use too much flavoring of any kind in baking, 
especially cinnamon or almond extract. 



14 

Dried apples, cooked soft enough to press through cul- 
lender, are very nice for meringue pies. 



Success in pie baking, depends a good deal on the 
mixing of the crust. Never work any more than necessary, 
just stir around enough to have it hold together and let rest 
as long as possible in cold place. 



If corn starch is to be used in place of flour, use King- 
ford's if possible. Don't use too much, a large tablespoonful 
always is sufficient to every pint of milk or water. 



Never use more than four eggs to a quart of milk for 
any custard. 



Three ounces of sugar is sufficient to every quart of 
milk for custards of any kind. 



For baked pot pies, (either meat or fruit,) use the 
American puff paste and prick good. 



15 



Gooseberries are improved by a little cinnamon or 
meringue. 



Apples should always have the prepared pie seasoning. 




-:- KINGSFORD'S -:- 

Q SVEG8 * S TARCH , 

The Standard of Excellence for 50 years, 



SOLD ALL AROUND tHe WorLd. 

best is ALWAYS THE CHEAPEST- 



ForF 



Kingsford's Corn Starch makes mostdeiic- 

ious lee Creams, Puddings, Blanc Mange, Custards, Soups, 
Gravies, etc. It is superb for Cakes and Cookies. As a Food 
for Children, when properly prepared with milk, it has no 
equal, and is a pure, nourishing, wholesome article of diet 
for all. 

It is extensively used in the best Hotels, Hospitals, and 
Ocean Steamships, and is used exclusively in the Illinois Corn 
Kitchen, Woman's Building, World's Fair. 



For tfye I^atii^dry, 



Kingsford's "Silver Gloss" Starch will be 

found far superior to all other starches in its wonderful 
strength and uniformity. It imparts to fine laces, linens 
and muslins a delicacy and lustre simply incomparable. 

Kingsford's "Pure" Starch is well adapted 

to economical housekeepers. It is a genuine article, abso- 
lutely pure, never varies in quality, and is free from odor. 

T. KINGSFORD & SON, Manufacturers, 
OSWEGO, n. V. 



PART II. 

Puddings, Hot and Cold, Sherbets, Creams and Side Dishes. 



BREAD PUDDING. 

For Cottage Bread Pudding: For ten people. Soak as much as a 
half loaf stale bread or six biscuits in a quart of milk. Beat up good to- 
gether, four or five eggs, one cup of sugar, one teaspoon vanilla, one-half tea- 
spoon salt, two tablespoons melted butter, mix up good with the bread, add 
one cup of large raisins, bake in a buttered and sugar dusted china dish or 
tin pan; set this dish in a pan of hot water; bake one-half hour. Little nut- 
meg improves the flavor. 

For Bread and Butter Pudding: Spread your bread good with 
butter, fill your dish half full of this buttered bread, then pour custard 
(same as for custard pie), over it, omit the raisins and bake same as the other 
bread pudding. 

Farina or Indian Meal Pudding: One-half pound of farina or 
meal, stir into one quart of hot milk, leave on fire until it thickens; set 
away to cool ; stir into it when cold, one-half pound of sugar, yolks of four eggs, 
rind of lemon and the stiff froth of the four whites of eggs, add then one even 
teaspoon of Thatcher's baking powder, sifted, one-half nutmeg, grated; mix 
all good and bake one-half hour, not too hot. 

For Souffle: Proceed the same as above, only take eight eggs 
and do not bake until time to serve, and bake in a hotter oven; bake iu china 
dish and do not set into any pan with water, as you do for puddings. 

Tapioca and Sago Pudding: (For twelve people). Use the follow- 
ing formula alike: never soak over night: Put one-half pound of tapioca 
or sago in three pints of boiling water; stir and set on slow fire; stir continu- 
ally to keep from sticking to the bottom; when all soft and jellied, put in 
double boiler with one pint of milk and one-quarter pound of butter and cook 
twenty minutes more until jellied again. Set away to cool; beat up good, 



18 

four eggs with three-quarters of a cup of sugar, (or six ounces), one lemon, 
grated, a little nutmeg and then mix with the other mixture well and bake, 
not too hot, about forty minutes. E. E. Durkee's sago I find the very best. 

KICK PUDDINGS. 

Never soak rice; first wash the rice. 

Cottage Eice Pudding: (For twelve people) Put one-half pound 
of rice in a galvanized kettle on slow fire, with about three pints of 
boiling water and cook until all swelled and soft. If it boils dry, add more 
boiling water but do not disturb. When done set away to cool, and proceed 
the same as above for sago. For Sultana Eice Pudding, add one cup of Sul- 
tana Seedless Raisins to above mixture. 

For Eice Pudding, family style: Over a pound of rice, pour two quarts 
of boiling water, and cook very soft; then add lemon peel, one pound of sugar 
and little nutmeg, two tablespoons butter, and two tablespoons corn starch, 
when all water is boiled in add pint of milk and cook all dry again, then pack 
solid in any mould and let settle; before serving, turn out on deep plate and 
sprinkle with cinnamon and pour over a nice vanilla soft custard, cold. Dip 
your mould in cold water before filling with the rice. 

CABINET PUDDIKG. 

Fill moulds three quarters full with lady fingers or sponge cake, cut up 
fine, pour over it a rich custard, same as custard pie; flavor to taste. 

For Diplomatic Pudding: Proceed same rule, mix currants, sultana rai- 
sins and a little citron, cut very fine, with the sponge cake. 

Tutti Frutti Pudding: Is the same formula, only may use all pieces of 
different kinds of cakes, and sprinkle the fruit over the bottom of moulds, 
different names may be given that way, by using special fruits, such as 
peaches, oranges, etc. 

COLD FARINA OK INDIAN PUDDING. 

Let come to a boil, one-half pound of farina or meal with three pints of 
boiling milk; stir until it starts to thicken, then let cool; add a little lemon or 
other flavor, beat up stiff, four whites of eggs* mix all light together and fill 
in moulds and set on ice. 



19 

PUDOTtfG SAUCES. 

Stock for all "Wine and Extract Sauces : In a sauce pan dissolve to. 
gether three tablespoons of Oswego Corn btarch, one-half pound or one cup 
of brown or granulated sugar, little whole mixed spice, one-half lemon rind 
and juice, with pint cold water and set on fire Let simmer slow, until all 
clear, add little butter or salt and strain. Before serving, add one-half glass 
of any wine as desired, or one tablespoon any extract. Color to suit taste. 

CHATEAUX SAUCE. 

The proper name is Cheau d'Eau, but is generally called as above. 

Beat light, four yolks of eggs with two handsfull of powdered sugar 
ar.d one-half lemon juice and rind of half a lemon, then stir in one half glass 
of Ehine Wine, slow, beating it lively, add a half a glass of hot water and 
beat all good until all foam. This is one of my favorite sauces. 

Hard Sauce : Rub together to froth, one cup of butter, one and one- 
half cups powdered sugar, juice of one-half lemon, or little vanilla and one 
white of an egg. If you have bag and tube, drop in little stars, otherwise set 
on plate, sprinkle with mace and put on ice to harden. 

Eum Sauce: Take half of mixture of hard sauce and stir into it half 
the quantity of stock sauce; mix all with one small glass of rum, and keep 
hot until served. 

Cream Sauce: Mix all together in double boiler, one cup of fine sugar, 
one and one-half pints of cream and milk, one ounce of Kingsford's Corn 
Starch or two ounces of flour, one half teaspoon salt, one tablespoon butter, 
stir occasionally and when just starting to thicken, remove and strain; flavor, 
vanilla. 

For French Cream Sauce: Only add little cognac brandy to above. 
Yankee Sauce: Same as rum sauce, only add little ground ginger. 

ICE CREAM. 

Ice cream can bs made rich or poor just as you have the stuff to use, 
but never take more than one-half pound (one cup) sugar to che quart of milk 
or cream. 



20 

For Pure American Cream: Use six ounces of powdered sugar to every 
quart of sweet cream; flavor vanilla, lemon or any extract, one teaspoon. 
Stir and freeze. 

For Common Cream: You can use milk and one ounce corn starch to 



the quart milk and one raw egg, and three-quarters of a cup or six ounces of 
sugar, use part cream if possible. 

Frozen Custard or Vienna Ice Cream: Put together on fire in a farina 
boiler, eight yolks of eggs, one quart of milk, three-quarters of a pound or 
one and one-half cups of sugar, and stir occasionally until near boiling, when 
it will just start to thicken, but do not boil, then add the flavoring to taste, 
one teaspoon to the quart, and one pint of cream and strain and freeze. 

Fruit Cream: Crush a quart of any fresh fruit with three-quarters of a 
pound of fine sugar to pulp; add one quart of rich cream and strain through 
cullender and freeze. 

Chocolate Ice Cream: Dissolve one-quarter of a pound of Maillard's 
Chocolate, with one-quarter of a pound of powdered sugar and one-half cup of 
water over not too hot a fire; stir until it thickens, then add slowly, any of 
above mixture. This chocolate is enough for the quantity of any of the plain 
cream recipes given above. 

For Coffee Ice Cream: Add one cup of very strong coffee to any of the 
plain cream recipes you may select. 

For Bisque Ice Cream: Freeze the pure American or Vienna cream; 
before serving, add one brandy glass of sherry wine and one dozen macaroons, 
roasted and broken fine. 

Any Flavor Cream may be made after the above rules. 

These are the best recipes for Ice Cream, if Cream is wanted out of any 
poorer materials, you had better make a nice wholesome sherbet or punch. 

SHERBETS AX!) PUNCHES. 

Very few people, even professional pastry cooks, know or make a dis- 
tinction between Sherbets and Water Ices. 



21 

For Sherbets and Punches: Always use the following formula: Suffi- 
cient for twenty-five people.. To two and one-quarter pounds of granulated 
sugar, add five pints of hot water and juice of three lemons, rind of one lemon, 
gratod, and three whites of eggs; stir this altogether until sugar is dissolved; 
strain and freeze very stiff. This is the general formula for all sherbets and 
punches ; the lemon juice giving acid enough, and the extra cost being so little, 
that it is not necessary to add any citric acid. I can produce autograph com- 
mends from some of the best known epicurians for the delicacy of my sherbets. 
I oppose the use of acids in every kind of ices and sherbets, because the price 
compared with ice cream is so much le3s, that the price of lemons can not be 
figured. 

For Roman Punch : Freeze the above mixture and just before serving 
add one wine glass of rum and beat up good. 

For Cardinal Punch : Freeze first mixture, only add one grated orange 
rind and juice, color bright red, and before serving, beat up good with one- 
half glass of rhine or sherry wine. 

For Pineapple Sherbet: To first mixture, add a small can of grated 
pineapple or a half fresh pineapple chopped fine. 

For Orange Sherbet : To first mixture, add the juice and rind of two 
oranges. 

For all other fruits : Add to first mixture, juice of a quart of fruit and 
add one-half cup more sugar. 

FROZEJf FRUITS. 

Freeze plain sherbet mixture as above, and before serving, mix into it, 
a pint of pineapple or peaches or any such fruit as desired; cut up into small 
square pieces. But only fresh fruit can be used to advantage in this delicious 
dessert. All canned fruit or syrups will taste of the tin as soon as they are 
frozen. 

WATER ICES. 

A genuine Water Ice can never be frozen in an American patent freezer. 
It must either be frozen in a open Vienna machine or frozen in an open can, 
turned with one hand, while with the other hand you cut it loose with a large 



wooden paddle, and stir as quick as it freezes on sides and bottom; when all 
frozen into a solid body, let rest awhile, then beat up once more good and 
smooth, and repack and you have the genuine famous European Fruit Ices. 
All fruits can be used for this. 

Formula for eight people: One quart of water and one and one-half 
pounds of sugar, (if not wanted too solid, one and one-quarter pounds is 
enough,) boiled together ten minutes, then add two lemon juice and one grated 
lemon and a pint of whatever fruit juice you like. For Lemon Ice, use one 
more lemon juice and one more rind. 

FROZEN LEMONADE. 

Take half of any sherbet, after frozen, and dissolve again with a pint 
of water to a quart of sherbet, and fill glasses three-quarters full, then cut the 
rest of the sherbet with a spoon into small pieces and put on top the glasses. 

JELLIES AND COLD DESSERTS. 

Jellies and cold desserts are very liberally prescribed for convalescents 
and the sick, but seldom enjoyed, on account of the disagreeable gluey taste 
which almost all gelatines possess. The Ox Brand Gelatine is free from this 
objection. It is also commended on account of its nutrition and economy. 

JELLY STOCK. 

Dissolve one package (4 oz.) Ox Gelatine in two quarts cold water, add 
one quart hot water, two and one-half pounds granulated sugar, a little 
whole mixed spices, juice of three lemons, peel of one lemon, and one dozen 
egg shells washed and broken fine. Put all together on the fire, stir thor- 
oughly. Beat whites of four eggs in one pint cold water and add to the mix- 
ture on the stove. Let it come to a boil, stirring it occasionally; boil at least 
three minutes, as this secures the sparkling quality so inuch desired in jelly. 
Strain through toweling or flannel. If then not entirely clear and sparkling 
pour back and strain again. All jellies can be made from this stock, but 
nothing need be added for lemon jelly except the rind of half a lemon, chopped 
very fine. 

Wine Jelly. For twelve people. Take one quart of the jelly stock, 
place it on the stove for a few minutes until melted; add one-half cup of such 
wine as desired, pour in mould and set away to harden. When making Sher- 
ry or Port Wine Jelly, add a few drops of burnt sugar coloring; with Claret 
Jelly, add a few drops cochineal color. 



23 

Champagne Jelly: Melt one quart stock, add one-half cup good cider, 
pour in glasses suitable for serving and set away to harden. Beat to stiff 
froth, whites of two eggs, then add two tablespoons melted gelatine. Heap 
this on top of the jelly in the glasses and keep in the ice box until served. 

Orange Jelly: To one quart of stock add juice of one orange or one ta- 
blespoonful orange extract and half the rind of one orange, chopped very fine. 

Fruit Jelly: Half fill a quart mould with melted je}ly stock, place in ice 
water until it commences to harden, put a layer of nice clean ripe berries into 
it and fill the mould with stock. Fruits of any sort may be used in the same 
manner. A little of the fruit juice and coloring may be added to the stock if 
desired. 

For the following formulas use the Gelatine, and not the Jelly Stock. 

Snow Pudding: For twelve people. Dissolve one-half oz. of Ox Gela- 
tine in one-half wineglass sherry wine and one-half wine glass hot water. 
Beat whites of five eggs very stiff; beat into them five ounces powdered sugar 
and let the gelatine run in slowly, beating it all the time. Juice of one lemon 
and rind of an orange, grated, may be added. Set away in moulds to harden. 
If fruit flavors and coloring are used, a variety of names may be given. 

Demi Glace of Coffee : Same as snow pudding, only dissolve gelatine 
with one cup of very strong coffee in place of wine and water. 

Blanc Mange: This Blanc Mange is especially recommended for in- 
valids. Blanch one handful of sweet almonds, pound fine in mortar or chop 
very fine; dissolve two ounces of gelatine in two quarts sweet milk, add six 
ounces powdered sugar, put all over a moderate fire and stir until nearly boil- 
ing; set away to cool, stirring occasionally; when nearly cool, strain, pour in 
moulds or cups and set away to harden. 

Gravy Stock: Ox Gelatine will also make an excellent stock for en- 
riching gravies and soups. You can use the same recipe as given for jelly 
stock, only omit the granulated sugar, in place of which use one-half pound of 
the very darkest brown sugar. Keep in cool dry place using a spoonful when 
required for this purpose. 

If you can not get the Ox Brand Gelatine and the substitute be not of 
the very best quality, use a little more, but cook only half of the quantity of 
fetock at once. 



24 

Ox Gelatine Stock may be prepared and kept for a longtime, ready for 
use at a moments' notice. 

The cost of all these fine desserts is so remarkably insignificant, that 
they may be enjoyed by people of the most moderate means as well as by the 
rich. 

We guarantee that these recipes, when carefully followed, will produce 
most delicious desserts, especially if the Ox Brand Gelatine is used. 
CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 

Line a glass dish or small cups with lady fingers or sponge cake and fill 
with the following mixture: Soak one ounce of Gelatine (Ox Brand), with 
one-half pint cold water, when all soft set in boiling water to dissolve all, beat 
up one quart of strong double cream very stiff; mix veiy slowly to it, two 
yolks, four ounces of powdered sugar, sifted, then strain the gelatine into it 
slow; stir all up good and fill the moulds, set on ice until wanted. 
SWISS CREAM MERINGUE. 

Take a wooden board about one inch thick and soak it in water, beat 
up stiff, seven whites of eggs; mix light with one pound of fine sugar, little 
vanilla, drop with spoon (or bag and tube) size of a goose egg on paper; dust 
with powdered sugar and sit on the wet board and bake very slow in cold 
oven, when hard enough to take up from the board, take one at a time and 
scrape the soft inside out, put shells upside down on another pan and let dry 
out slowly. You can keep these shells on hand for a month, they never 
spoil. Before serving, fill them with whipped cream and set two together on 
a saucer. 

COMBINATION OF PUDDINGS AND SAUCES. 
Not every sauce corresponds with every pudding, so I will give a few 

selections. 

Cottage Rice Pudding - , Vanilla Sauce. 
Sago " Madeira " 

Farina " Cream " 

Cabinet " Chateaux " 

Indian " Fr. Cream " 

Cottage Bread *« Rum or Hard" 

Fruit " Brandy " 

Sponge " Rhine Wine " 

Angel Food " Raspberry " 

English Plum " RumamlHr'd" 

Tapioca " Sherry Wine " 



*§#Hmts on t)esserts.#i» 



Grease all pudding moulds with butter and dust with 



suga r. 



Bake all puddings in a pan of hot water, but have 
water not more than one-quarter of an inch deep after you 
set puddings in it, so it will be just about dry by the time 
the pudding is done. 



By following my general rules, a great variety of des- 
serts can be made by any cook, only changing the flavors 
and colors to suit your fancy. 



For Ice Cream and Sherbets, break ice not too fine and 
mix no more than a quart of rock salt to eight quarts of ice. 
Always use rock salt. 



Always use DOUBLE cream if possible, for Ice Cream 
and Whipped Cream, that is cream that stood at least twen- 
ty-four hours on the milk, and twelve hours in cold room 
after skimmed. 



26 

STEAMED PUDDINGS. 

For Roily Polly or Steamed Pudding, use the following formula: Mix 
together light, as for tea biscuits, one and one-half pounds of rich pastry or 
Parker's flour, four ounces of butter or lard, one ounce of Thatcher's baking 
powder, a little nutmeg, three yolifs of eggs, one-half teaspoon salt and about 
one pint of milk; roll out about eighteen inches long and ten inches wide; 
spread with any fruit or jam; roll up, set in a greased pan in a steamer and 
cover over; will be done in half an hour. 

Fruit Dumpling Paste is the same as the above Just roll out one- 
quarter of an inch thick; cut out with large, round cake cutter, put fruit and 
sugar in the middle and double over; set in greased muffin tins; steam about 
one-half hour. A dozen different kinds can be made from this formula. 

BOILED INDIAN PUDDING. 

One cup of indian meal and one-half cup of flour, pour into one quart of 
boiling milk, then when it thickens add one-half cup (four ounces) brown 
sugar, one-half cup of suet, chopped fine, little salt, four eggs and a little nut- 
meg, two tablespoons of molasses may be added; tie in cloth; boil or steam 
four to five hours. 

POOR MANS' PUDDING. 

About six stale biscuits (or three biscuits and three corn muffins) grated 
fine, add handful stoned raisins, some currants (washed), good handful of 
brown sugar, one cupful of flour, chop fine with the flour, one-quarter of a 
pound of beef suet, one teaspoon of Thatchers' baking powder, mix all together 
with sufficient milk to make a paste; steam in greased and sugared dish about 
two hours. Add little nutmeg or mace. 

ENGLISH PLUM PUDDING. 

Chop fine one pound of beef suet with one cup of pastry flour, add three- 
quarters of a pound of brown sugar, three apples chopped fine, one-half pound 
of stoned prunes, one pound of raisins, one pound of currants, five eggs, two 
lemon peels, grated, one teaspoon of each, grated, cinnamon, nutmeg and all- 
spice, four biscuits or one-quarter of a loaf of bread, which you have first 
soaked in milk, one glass of rum, mix all together good, steam five hours in 
suitable mould or boil four hours in napkin if preferred, dust with fine sugar 
after on the platter, pour a little strong rum over it and set on fire. 



27 
fcEttUItfE OLD MLISH PLUia PUDDING. 

One pound suet, chopped fine, one pint sifted and roasted bread crumbs 
one pound currants, one pound raisins, one-half pound citron, one-half tea- 
spoon nutmeg, one pound brown sugar, little salt, six eggs, two carrots, grated ; 
bod in mould not less than eight hours, slowly ; if possible, boil six hours 
first day and two hours more before using. Pack solid in greased and sugared 
mould; tie up with cloth. Serve with French brandy sauce. 




Hints on Steamed and Boikd Puddings. 



Always use pastry flour if on hand. 



If patent flour is used, use a little extra lard and mix 
moist. 



To boil puddings in a bag, grease the inside of the 
cloth with butter and sugar, when done, dip bag in cold 
water as it will loosen easy. 



If boiled in a kettle direct on fire, put a plate on bot- 
tom to keep pudding from burning. 



If you want to steam puddings, put mixture in greased 
and sugared mould or dish and tie over w T ith a cloth 
and set into steamer. Cover steamer closely and steam a lit- 
tle longer than for boiling. 



29 



When berries are used for Roily Polly, you prepare them 
same as for pies in Part I. 



The recipe for Indian Pudding, (steamed), can be used 
for Farina Pudding, only leave out the apples and molasses 
and add little Colton's Extract of vanilla. 



There is other formulas for Plum Puddings, but I just 
give these two as warranted the best. The first is what I 
use, it cuts and cooks lovely. The other is the genuine old 
colonial recipe. 




FLEISCHMANN'S 

VEGETABLE Vfl A QT 
COMPRESSED I MO 1 

HAS NO EQUAL 



"BEECHNUT" 

*<HAMS ANB BACON 

Cured by a New Process, which 
makes them tender and delicious. 
Recommended to the lovers of 
good eating, and fit for any gentle- 
man's table. 

JOB PARKER'S SONS, 

Sole Agents for Utica. 



PART III. 

About Weights and Measures. 

It is astonishing in how few kitchens you find a scale. How often can 
you hear a woman complain that she is sure the meat is short in weight or 
the pound of butter looks too small, or the ten pound pail of lard is not near 
full ? but she never has any proof of it. A nice pair of scales would certainty 
be a very useful and practical present to give any young bride when starting 
housekeeping, and would be, without doubt, highly appreciated by all com- 
mon sense people. I take the risk of your success upon ine, if you take my 
advice and by the next chance buy your friend a scale as a wedding present 
and as you can get a pair of scales at any price, you can select one to cor- 
respond with your means, same as if you buy jewelry. There is now upon 
the market, scales which are ornaments fit for a parlor and will certainly be 
novel as well as a useful present. I intend, especially by recipes for cakes, 
to give weight by pounds and ounces, and if you like you can transform into 
cup measure. I give formulas below which are based on medium sized cups, 
sometimes you may get a recipe from a friend who makes a lovely cake after 
it, but when you follow the recipe, your cake be too light and falls before it is 
done, your cup may be smaller for measuring sugar and flour and perhaps 
your spoon larger for measuring baking powder or soda. 

MEASURES. 

Two tablespoonsful or six teaspoonsful make one ounce. 

Four ounces make one gill. 

Eight ounces make one cupful. 

Two cupsful make a pint. 

Two pints make one quart. 

These all are meant even full. 

One pint of flour weigh about three-quarters of a pound. 

One pint of granulated sugar weighs one pound slight. 

One pint of brown sugar weighs a little less. 

One pint of butter or lard weighs one pound slight. 

One pint of milk weighs one pound good weight. 

Twenty whites of eggs make one pint. 

Ten whites of egg make one-half pint. 

Seven to eight eggs weigh one pound. 



33 

When molasses is used it should always be measured by pint, half-pint 
or quart, never use cups. 

Extracts and cream of tartar, soda or baking powder may always be 
measured with a spoon, if not over one ounce. 

Never buy cheap extracts, get Colton's if possible, they are the standard 
for excellency in flavoring. 

When using extracts, never use to much of any, nutmeg can be used to 
advantage in most all puddings, it is very strong in flavor, therefore take 
little, and very few people object to the flavor. 

Cinnamon is more a matter of taste and so is almond flavor. 

Both, if used in liquid extract, should be watched and only given by 
drops, six di'ops being sufficient for a quart of milk. 

If you want to get good red coloring for sauces and general baking, 
warranted, as I have used it myself for years, send twenty-five cents to J. 
Braun, Utica, and we will send you, postage prepaid, a bottle of beautiful 
pure color, which will last }*ou a long time. 

If you have no scale, be sure and get one now. 

If you buy flour by the barrel, it is always safe to open on bottom end, 
you are sure that the whole barrel is good if it is alright on the bottom. 
Sometimes it gets damp and musty from wet floors and cars, and sometimes 
unscrupolous merchants may have poorer flour on the bottom then on top. 

If you have no regular bakers' soft palet knife, you can break up some 
clean paste board in pieces about six inches long and they will scrape the 
dough out of the corners nicety. 

For twenty-five cents we will send you, prepaid, two tubes, one plain, 
exact size for lady fingers, and one star tube for kisses and merringuo, and a 
pattern for ornamenting, bag to use for lady fingers, kisses and meringue. 

Address : J. BMUX, 
Charlotte and Devereux Streets, 
Utica, N. Y. 



PART IV. 



MOLASSES WORK. 

In molasses cakes, and most all bakings where molasses is used, there 
is generally saleratus or baking soda used as a leavening power. If you 
understand the proper composition of the different materials and their chemi- 
cal changes while baking, it is very easy to make up your own recipes with 
success to suit your own taste. I therefor give just a few formulas, which 
can be made up and put away to use part at a time ; just keep the rest in a 
cool place. 

MOLASSES GIIVGEK BREAD. 

Mix all together, one pint of molasses (if possible one-half of each, 
Porto Kico dark and rich New Orleans), three-quarters of a pint of cold water, 
one egg, six ounces of lard, one handful of brown sugar, one even tablespoon- 
ful of saleratus, one tablespoonful of ginger, one-half spoonful of cinnamon, 
add enough sifted pastry flour to make a paste like for tea biscuits. Grease 
the pan and lay out with paper, then fill in the dough, smooth the top with a 
knife, dipped in water, and bake in cool oven about one hour, if you put all 
the dough in one pan ; if in two bread tins, it will be done in a good half 
hour. If oven bakes too hot from top, cover cakes with greased paper. This 
mixture can be made into different cakes. 

ENGLISH CURRANT SLICES. 

Take piece of the above dough on your moulding board dusted with a 
little flour, mix some washed English currants into it, roll out in round strips, 
set on greased cake tins and flatten a little. Then bake in a warm oven about 
six to ten minutes and frost with chocolate, and when dry, cut in slices about 
one-half inch thick. You will be surprised at the lovely combination of flavor. 

MOLASSES COOKIES. 

Eoll out a piece of the above dough, not too thin, cut out in cookies 
and wash with milk. Bake in hot oven. 



35 

GINGER KUTS. 

The above mixture is good for them also ; take a piece of it and mix with 
a handful of granulated sugar and a little molasses and mix good in dish. 
Drop in spoonfuls on a slight greased cookie pan and bake, not too hot. 

SPICE CUP CAKES. 

One quart of cake crumbs, soak with one pint of New Orleans Molas- 
ses, three-quarters of a cup of water or sour milk, add one teaspoon saleratus, 
one handful brown sugar, one-quarter of a pound of lard or butter, two table, 
spoons prepared seasoning, (see part 1), little vanilla Extract, one to two 
eggs, mix all well, add a handful of currants if you like, and enough soft flour 
to mix to a dough, like pound cake. Grease as man}' muffin tins as you want, 
good, heat the moulds in oven first; fill half full with the mixture. You 
can put away and save as long as you wish then. You can use for different 
cakes; always stir up again with a little molasses, 

PUNCH SLICES. 

Roll a piece of common pie dough, only thin, grease any size pan you 
like and line with this dough, and cover with the above mixture, one-half inch 
thick; bake slow; when done, frost with water frosting to which you add two 
tablespoons of rum or brandy; you can dust with fine sugar in place of frost- 
ing and call Scotch Slices. You can also add a little chopped citron and 
orange peel, and a little more flour and drop by spoonful on cookie pans greased 
slight and flour dusted and bake slow. 

UI OLANSIIN FRUIT CAKES. 

One-half pound brown sugar, three-quarters pound of lard, one and 
one-half pints molasses, one and one-half pints milk, four eggs, one ounce 
saleratus, all mixed, then add three pounds pastry flour, two pounds currants, 
two pounds raisins, one and one-half pounds citron sliced fine, and little dried 
apples chopped very line. Hake in bread tins lined with paper very slow. 

BOEIVERS. 

Mix two quarts of molasses, one and one-half quarts of water, one pound 
of lard, two and one-half ounces soda, eight and one-half pounds of flour, 
spices, roll out one quarter of an inch thick and wash with milk ; bake pretty 
hot. 



36 

GINGER SNAPS AND WAFERS. 

Mix all together, one-half pound brown sugar, one-half pound granu- 
lated sugar, one good pint molasses, one quarter pint water, seven ounces of 
lard, one even tablespoon soda, one tablespoon ginger, one-half spoon of cin- 
namon, one-half teaspoon salt, three pounds flour, if possible use very dark 
molasses and soft cheap flour, cut out with round cutter, lay on greased cookie 
tins and wash with wet cloth over top good and bake in cold oven. 

CINNAMON WAFERS. 

The same dough as for ginger snaps, only avoid ginger and use more 
cinnamon. Roll out a square piece about one-eighth of an inch thick, cut in 
pieces three inches long and one wide, wash with milk and bake slow. This 
dough will also improve by age, so you can make up a pan or two whenever 
you like and keep the rest of the dough in a cool place, only work the dough 
good on your board before you roll it out. 

BERKSHIRE CAKES. 

One and one-half pints molasses, piece of butter— big as an egg, one 
teaspoon soda, one-half cup milk, little salt and ginger, flour enough to roll 
out ; roll out one-quarter of an inch thick, lay in one square piece on greased 
pan, cut through with long knife in pieces three by four inches and bake hot 
about eight minutes, when done turn pan upside down on cloth, and when 
cool break or cut apart. Before baking prick good with a fork. 

For all molasses work, use cheap common pastry flour, the softer it is, 
the better it works for this kind of baking. 



PART V. 



LOAF CAKES. 

If the call of the customers for cheap cakes and the zeal of the majority 
of the American bakers continue to follow the road they are now on, the gen- 
uine and wholesome sponge cake will soon be forgotten altogether. I will 
only give here a few of the old genuine mixtures, which will never fail and are 
especially dedicated for the sick and weak. 

SPONGE CAKE. (Warm.) 

Beat together in deep basin or tin pail, six eggs and one-half pound of 
powdered sugar, one tablespoon hot water; set in a pan of boiling water, 
while still beating, until the mixture is good and hot, then take out of the 
water and beat until light and cold again, then mix light with one-half pound 
flour, little lemon or vanilla flavor, bake in any greased cake tin lined with 
paper. This cake can bake in hotter oven than the cold mixture; bake about 
half an hour. Sour lemon frosting. 

SPONGE CAKE. (Cold.) 

Beat very stiff the whites of seven eggs, then mix into this light, one- 
half pound of powdered sugar and six yolks of eggs and seven ounces of pas- 
try flour; lemon flavor. This bakes colder than the warm mixture, but ia 
very light and should be done in thirty minutes. 

REAL POUKD CAKE. 

Beat light together, one-half pound of powdered sugar, one-half pound 
of washed butter; when creamy, mis in five eggs, one at a time; beat the 
eggs separate first and leave in ice water as long as possible ; when all 
beat up, add one-half pound pastry flour and a little nutmeg or mace, bake 
very cold, about one and a half to two hours if in one pan; if made in two 
cakes, it will be done in one hour; if not quite sure if done, thrust a broom 
Straw in centre of cake and if it pulls out dry without any dough, it is ready 
to take out. 



33 

POUND RAISIN CAKE. 

Is made of the same mixture. Hub one and one-half pounds of sultana 
(seedles) raisin3 good with flour, sift in coarse sieve and mix with above mix- 
ture. 

WINE CAKE. (Duchess style.) 

One pound of sugar, three-quarters of a pound of butter and lard mixed, 
beat creamy; add five eggs, one at a time, then one-half pint of milk, one ta- 
blespoon vanilla or one-half glass wine and two pounds pastry flour, sifted to- 
gether with one even tablespoon of Thatcher's baking powder. You can 
also make currant cake or raisin cake out of this mixture. Bake not so cold 
as pound cake. Frost with egg frosting; flavor with lemon or wine. 

ANGEL FOOD. 

Beat very stiff, one-half pint or ten whites of eggs; sift together one_ 
half pound powdered sugar, five ounces of pastry flour and one teaspoon 
Thatcher's baking powder, (or cream of tartar). Bake in regular angel food 
pan. If you have none, take a round deep cake pan; out of strong paste board 
make a tube about two inches in diameter; tie with string and set in middle ol 
pan. Always soak the pan good in water for this cake and fill while wet, do 
not grease the pan and when baked turn upside down, but lay a piece of 
wood under one side so the air can pass under it. Should bake about thirty 
minutes slow; flavor with teaspoon of vanilla. 

SILVER OR L4DY CAKE. 

Three-quarters pound sugar and one-half pound of washed butter, rub 
to cream, add slow, seven whites of eggs (beaten up a little), one-half cup of 
milk, and one pound pastry flour sifted with one heaping teaspoon Thatcher's 
baking powder. Beat all together good and bake in papered pan not to cold, 
about one-half hour. For silver cake flavor — lemon; for lady cake flavor — ■ 
bitter almond. 

CITRON CAKE. 

Same as above mixture; cut one-half pound citron very thin, rub with 
little flour and bake slower than plain cake. 



39 

GOLD CAKE. 

One-half pound of butter and three-quarters of a pound of sugar, 
beat to cream, add slow five eggs, then three-quarters of a cup of milk 
and one pound of pastry flour sifted with one heaping teaspoon Thatcher's 
baking powder. Bake in flat cake tins lined with paper. This cake will 
never fail to give satisfaction, can be baked in good heat and with different 
flavors given a variet} r of names. 

LiYEK CAKES. 

For layer cakes the above mixture is the very best I have ever had, 
and they balce very even and never puffin the middle. 

FOR MARBLE CAKE. 

The gold cake mixture is just the thing: take a half teaspoon Braun's 
red coloring in a cup and mix with half cup of the batter to bright red; 
dissolve apiece of chocolate in another cup and mix enough batter dark brown, 
spread a greased and papered pan half full with the plain mixture, then take 
a tablespoon and make four deep furrows through the dough, fill these cavi- 
ties with the red and chocolate and cover smooth with the rest of the dough. 
Bake first middling hot, then slower to the end of a half hour; it should stand 
at least forty minutes. 

WEDDING CAKE. White. 

One pound of butter and one and one-quarter pounds of powdered sugar, 
beat to cream ; add slow, one at a time, twelve eggs and one and one-quarters of 
a pound of fl.our (pastry), one teaspoon Thatcher's baking powder. Soak with 
wine or brandy, one and one-half pounds of washed currants, one and a half 
of stoned raisins, three-quarters of a pound of citron, one-half of a nutmeg 
grated. Mix all well and bake two hours at the least. Will keep long time; 
can add vanilla or almond extract. 

WEDDOG CAKE. Dark. 

Take mixture of real pound cake and add, one-half pint of molasses 
(dark) and two ounces of cinnamon and allspice, fruit the same as for white 
wedding cake. Little vanilla or almond extract will improve it. 



*f #Hmts on Loaf Gate.*** 



For all Loaf Cakes, grease tins and line with paper. 



Always stir eggs up good with a fork or beater before 



mixing in butter and add one at a time. 



If butter is soft, wash in ice water, if very hard in win- 
ter, moisten a little in oven before mixing with sugar. 



If your oven bakes too much from bottom, set large 
cakes in another pan with thick paper on bottom. 



All fruits for large cakes rub good with flour first. 



For all Loaf Cakes, eggs should be kept on ice until 
ready to use them. 



41 



With Thatcher's Baking Powder, you can make a plain, 
cheap cake after your own judgment or test, only not use 
more than one good teaspoon to a quart of flour and not 
bake too slow or too cold. 



For rich cake always wash butter good in ice water, 
then squeeze out all water and dry in cloth. 



Sultana Seedless Raisins are the best to use in large 
cakes, 



PART VI. 

Small Cakes ami Fancy Cakes. 

SUGAR COOKIES. 

Mix together one-half pound granulated or A sugar, one-quarter pound 
lard, one or two eggs, one-half eup sour milk or cream with one-half teaspoon 
saleratus, little nutmeg and one-half teaspoon Colton's lemon extract; then 
add one pound of pastry flour sifted with one even teaspoon cream of tartar. 
Koll out on floured board one-quarter of an inch thick; bake on greased tins 
in hot oven. 

SHREWSBURY CAKES. 

One pound butter, three-quarters pound sugar, one and three-quarters 
pounds pastry flour ,little mace and cinnamon, all rubbed together like tea bis- 
cuits; then add four eggs, or if possible eight yolks and two tablespoons 
cream or milk, mix very light and leave in ice box as long as possible before 
using. Have oven hot before time, so you can bake at once after on tins. 
Roll not too thin and on cold stone or board, wash over the top with mixture 
of one Qgg, teaspoon water and half a teaspoon sugar. Do not grease the 
tins. 

SEED CAKES. 

Are made the same as sugar cookies, but use water in place of milk. 
This mixture is as good a one as there is, and all kinds of cookies can be made 
of it, adding different spices, extracts, fruits or caraway. 

JUMBLES OR BROPS. 

Mix together good* one-half pound powdered sugar, one-quarter pound 
lard or butter; add slow, three eggs and beat up light, then one-half cup of 
milk, in which, dissolve one-half teaspoon soda, then one pound pastry flour, 
sifted, with one teaspoon cream of tartar and one teaspoon Colton's lemon ex. 
tract Drop with spoon on ungreased tins; bake not quite so hot as cookies. 
For drops, sprinkle with currants or chopped almonds or leave plain. When 
called jumbles, frost with whatever frosting is wanted- 



43 

JELLY FINGERS. 

If you have a tube and bag, run some of the above mixture into lady 
finger shape on ungreased pans and dust with fine sugar; bake hot and set 
two together with jelly or chocolate or cocoanut filling. Very fine; if you 
keep in jar, will keep a long time fresh. Cut loose with thin knife from pan 
as soon as baked. 

VANILLA JUMBLES. 

Eub to cream, half pound sugar and half pound butter, then add two 
large eggs, one teaspoon Colton's vanilla and last three-quarters of a pound 
of sifted flour; grease tins slightly and dust with flour; press the mixture 
through bag and tube in ring shape, size of a dollar, and bake; same heat as 
cookies; cut loose soon as baked. 

COCOANUT DROPS. 

One cocoanut, grated, mix with six ounces of powdered sugar and two 
ounces of flour, little butter. Drop with teaspoon small drops on buttered 
tins and bake hot; the} 7 are inclined to bake too quick from bottom, so bake 
on double tin or top shelf in oven. 

SPICE JUMBLES. 

One-half pound cake crumbs, one-half pound brown sugar, two eggs, 
six ounces butter or lard, tablespoon of cinnamon, all mixed, one-half cup mo- 
lasses, then add one-half pound soft flour, sifted with one even tablespoon of 
Thatcher's baking powder. If a little too stiff, add water to moisten enough 
to roll out. Roll out one-quarter of an inch thick, cut with jumble cutter or 
with cookie cutter and cut round hole in the centre, wash with milk and bake 
same as cookies. If frosted with chocolate they are very nice. You also 
make chocolate jumbles out of same mixture, only add four ounces of choco- 
late, which you have dissolved in oven with the butter and half a cup of milk 
extra. 

SPONGE CRACKERS. 

One-half pound sugar stirred good with five eggs and half a teaspoon 
saleratus, or bic. of ammonia, add ten ounces sifted flour, half of each if pos 
sible; set in little balls on greased pans and flatten with your hand; bake 
same heat as jumbles. 



44 

ALMOND CROQUETTES. 

One-half pound sugar beat up with three eggs and half teaspoon Col- 
ton 's lemon extract, add cup of almonds, chopped, one-half pound silted flour 
with one-quarter teaspoon Thatcher's baking powder. Frost with rose. 
VIENNA. TEA CAKES. 

One pound butter, washed in ice water and all water or milk squeezed 
out good, chop it fine with one and one-half pounds pastry flour, one teaspoon 
Colton's lemon or one tablespoon prepared pie seasoning (part I.) one-half 
pound powdered sugar, mix very light with five eggs, if convenient, use ten 
yolks of eggs as this makes them smoother, put on ice first to harden, then 
roll out one-third and cut in very small cookie shapes; take another piece and 
mix with handful of washed currants, roll in long strips as thick as a broom- 
stick, cut in bits one-half inch thick, lay on ungreased pans, the cut side on 
top and make impressions crossways with fork, the other part you can roll 
into pretzels or any shape. Wash all with same wash as for Shrewsbury cake. 

Bake hot. 

JELLY ROLL. 

Use the warm sponge cake mixture in flat long tin, lined with paper; 
bake in thin layer in hot oven. When baked, dust a paper with a little fine 
sugar; throw the hot cake upside down on it; take off paper and spread with 
jelly or jam and roll up. 

NEW YEAR CAKES. 

One pound coffee A sugar, ten ounces butter and lard; mix together 
with half pint water, half ounce caraway, one teaspoon powdered ammonia or 
half teaspoon cream of tartar, one-quarter teaspoon soda; then add two 
pounds of sifted pastry flour, mix very easy so it don't get tough. Roll out 
very thin and bake like cookies on greased tins, cut out with fancy cutters, 
stars, animals, and such things. You may wash with milk before baking and 
dust partly with colored sugar. 

CUP CAKES. 

Beat light ten ounces powdered sugar, one-quarter pound butter and 
lard; add slow four eggs, then half pint milk, then mix up good with one and 
one-quarter pounds pastry flour, being sifted with two even teaspoons That- 
cher's baking powder, teaspoon Colton's extract of vanilla or mace, frost with 
egg frosting, vanilla. 



45 

FOUtfD CUP CAKES. Very delicious. 

Rub together two cups powdered sugar (one pound) with three-quar- 
ters of a cup of butter (six ounces), then add six eggs, one at a time, no flavor- 
ing, three-quarters of a cup of milk (one-third of a pint), sift together twice 
three cups pastry flour (one and one-quarter pound) and one good teaspoon 
Thatcher's baking powder. Beat all good together and fill in greased patty 
pans or cup cake tins. Heat the moulds first and grease well. Bake in 
moderate heat and frost on bottom and sides with boiled cream frosting, 
flavored with lemon juice. 

ALMOKD MACAROONS. 

One-half pound almonds blanched and dried, pound fine in mortar with 
three-quarters of a pound of powdered sugar, adding a little at a time to the 
almonds to keep them from getting oily, sift once in a while through flour 
sieve and add more sugar to the remaining almonds until all fine; then add 
one-quarter pound granulated sugar, put all in a deep basin and beat up good 
and smooth with enough white egg to a stiff batter like drop cakes; then add 
one ounce of flour and one ounce of corn meal, little vanilla or lemon. Drop 
with bag and tube or spoon, size of an oyster cracker, on manilla paper and 
bake slow. If oven is hot from bottom, put a double sheet of newspaper on 
pan first. 

KISSES. 

Beat four whites of eggs very stiff, add half pound powdered sugar, first 
beating a handful into the eggs good and stir the rest in gently with the 
beater or wooden spatula. Drop with spoon (or better, bag and star tube,) 
on greased and flour dusted pans and dry more than bake them until they get 
loose from the tin, when you pound on the edge of the tin, add a little vanilla 
to the mixture and dust with powdered sugar, or for cocoanut kisses, dust 
good with cocoanut, (Dunham's is best.) 

CREAM KISSES. 

Mixture is same as above: Soak a board good in water for half an 
hour. Drop the meringue with bag and plain tube, on manilla paper, dust 
with sugar, blow sugar off the paper, set on the board, bake very slow, when 
they have crust enough to pick off from the paper, set two together and set 
in another tin and dry again. 



46 
FRUIT KISSES. 

Proceed same, only before you put two together, you lay a piece of pre- 
served fruit between, first have the syrup strained off. 

SPANISH KISSES. 

Same as the above; in place of the fruit put French glace, cherries be- 
tween ; have them soaked first in sherry wine and drain good. 

All thees kisses are so light and inexpensive that you can make quite a 
large quantity of them and many different shapes, if you have bag and tube. 

LADY FINGERS. 

You can make this with mixture of warm sponge cake, (Part HI.) but I 
like the following better: Beat very stiff, six whites of eggs; stir up good to- 
gether, six yolks and one-half pound sugar, little lemon, then add the beaten 
whites of eggs and last half pound flour; mix all gently with flat wooden 
spatula. You want bag and tube for them and run very small on paper; dust 
with sugar and bake hot; when done, wet the wrong side of the paper good 
and let soak through at least an hour, then stick two together. 

BOSTON CREAM PUFFS. 

Take half-pint water and half-pint of milk, boil together with four ounces 
lard or butter, stir into this six ounces flour, leave on fire until it loosens from 
bottom of basin. When cold, add slow seven to eight eggs, little of Colton's 
lemon extract and drop on slight greased and floured pans. Bake in hot 
oven; when cold, cut with scissors in center half way around and fill with 
custard cream or whipped cream. 

CHOCOLATE ECLAIRS. 

Mixture same as cream puffs. Shape like lady fingers (double size) 
with bag and tube, fill with custard cream and frost with chocolate frosting. 

CHAMPAGNE WAFERS. 

Mix together good, six ounces of powdered sugar, three ounces of pastry 
flour, three eggs and one teaspoon Colton's vanilla, get your cookie tins very 
clean, heat them and grease good with bees wax. If your kitchen is hot, put 
tins in the ice box until the bees wax is chilled (in the winter you may use 



47 

good butter). Spread the batter by spoonfuls on the tins, spread out the size 
of a buckwheat cake, but as thin as paper, and bake quick about three min- 
utes until they commence to brown on the edges, then have a round stick 
size of a parasol handle and roll the wafers tight over it. Serve with punch 
or Sherbet on same plate. 

ORANGE CRESCENTS. 

Line a flat cuke dish with paper and fill with the following mixture: 
Four ounces of butter and lard, and six ounces of powdered sugnr, rub to 
cream, add three eggs, beat up good, add one-quarter cup of milk with one 
grated orange rind; then mix in light half pound of pastry flour sifted with 
one even teaspoon of Thatcher's baking powder. Bake in moderate heat and 
soon as done turn over on sugar dusted paper and remove the paper from the 
cake. When cool, frost on bottom which is now on top, with orange frost- 
ing and cut into crescent shape with biscuit cutter, which you dip every time 
in water. Any other name may be given by frosting it with chocolate, vanilla 
or any other frosting. This mixture never fails and bakes quick. 

FRIED CAKES. 

Stir all together: two eggs, half pound sugar, piece of butter size of 
an egg, three-quarters of a cup of milk, pinch of salt, little mace or nutmeg; 
then add about one and a half to two pounds of flour, sifted with two even 
teaspoons of Thatcher's baking powder. Do not mix any more than neces- 
sary to keep together or it will be tough. Have lard hot on stove before you 
roll them out and bake immediately; cut with cutter, that cuts a hole in the 
middle, so they make rings. To see if grease is hot enoug, sprinkle a few 
drops of water into it and when it cracks and sputters it is hot enough. 

DOUGHNUTS OR CRULLERS. 

Three eggs, ten ounces sugar, half pint sweet milk, two ounces butter 
little mace, all mixed, then add one and a half pounds flour, sifted with two 
even teaspoonsful of Thatcher's baking powder; if you want to use sour milk, 
take one and a half teaspoonsful of cream of tartar, one teaspoon saleratus. 
Cut out in pieces two inches long and one inch wide; with a little sharp tin 
make two cuts in the centre, then lift up and draw one corner through the 
centre and thereby make a knot. Those are called Crullers, and are rolled 
in cinnamon sugar when baked. 



48 

RAISED DOUGHNUTS. 

One Fleischmann's yeast cake, dissolved in one pint of luke warm milk, 
three-quarters of a pound of granulated sugar, three ounces of lard and but- 
ter, four eggs, (or better, eight yolks), little salt or nutmeg, all mixed, then 
add enough pastry flour to make a soft dough set to rise about three hours in 
a warm place, then mix over light with little more flour and when started to 
raise again, roll out half an inch thick, cut with doughnut cutter and when 
raised light, fry, but have the grease not too hot. 

JELLY DOUGHNUTS. 

Make dough same as above mixture, break off and roll up like small 
raised biscuits; let raise little on floured board or table, then with your hand 
flatten out and put a teaspoon of jelly or jam in the centre; draw the dough 
from all sides and pinch together over the jelly like a ball, then set on 
flour dusted cloth to raise; cover over and set in warm place, and when raised 
about double their size, turn them over into your hand and set in the hot 
grease easy. Bake slow and not too hot and do not turn over in grease too 
soon. 

If you want common Crullers or Jelly Doughnuts, just take a piece 
of your bread dough, add little sugar to it and cut out same as the others, fry 
slow and dust with cinnamon sugar. 



*i#Rules about Cake Baking. •<? -:o> 



For Cookies always use pastry flour if possible. If you 
have to use bread flour (patent) in place of pastry, use two 
ounces less on every pound. 



The bakers generally use amonia in cookies and it is 
good to raise Cream Puffs also. If you like to use a little, 
get five cents worth in drug store ; If covered up good it 
will keep for a long time. An even teaspoonful is plenty 
for any small mixture; have it pounded very fine. 



When you use Cream of Tartar for raising, always use 
two-thirds Cream of Tartar and one-third of Soda with it. 
Cream of Tartar is mixed with the flour, Soda with the 
milk. 



Where Cream of Tartar and Soda is used in mixture, 
you can always use sour milk. 



50 



If you want to have cup cakes smooth and even on 
top, grease moulds good and heat first, but if you want them 
to crack and puff in the middle, you grease very little and 
not heat them. 



If you want any kind of cookies to have a very nice 
color on top, mix with an egg, a little salt or sugar and 
wash cookies with this before baking. 




ALPHOI^SE PIIJA1B ESAIJD 



FINEST 



YIRGIN OLIYE OIL, 



• Is N^Ver Excelled 



-AND- 



Rarely gqtialed. 2^^~^ 



FOR SALE BY THE 

LEADING GROCERS OF UT1CA AND THE UNITED STATES. 



HEADQUARTERS FOR 

Alphonse Pinard Olive Oil, 

Hazard's Ox Gelatine, 

Asparagus and Olives, 

Shrewsbury Catsup 

and Mayonese Dressing. 
Importer of French Peas and Mushrooms. 



\\ ! N. Clark's Fruits and Vegetables in glass and tins. 



Also all other best brands of Canned Fruits and 

Vegetables, at 

-MG. H. BREMER'S,**- 

Opera House Block, - Utica, N. Y. 



PART VII. 



Bread, Rolls, Biscuits, Coffee Cakes, Muffins and Gems. 



Success in bread baking depends unquestionably a good deal on the 
quality of the flour, it is certainly a very doubtful investment to buy cheap 
flour for bread baking. Good straight patent flour always holds its own and 
will not drop below market price; while cheap, soft flour gives the best satis- 
faction for molasses work, it is unfit and wasting time and materials if used in 
bread baking: besides this, there is another point to consider, the stronger the 
flour the more water it will take, and good, sound spring patent flour will 
make enough extra loaves out of a barrel to make up more than the difference 
of the cost of the flour. Next thing to consider is the yeast, home-made yeast 
depends a good deal on the changes of the weather and requires much expe- 
rience and cleanliness and tedious labor, while you can now get the celebrated 
Fleischmann's yeast, fresh daily in most every large store in the United 
States, it is hardly neccssar}' to talk any more about home-made yeast. This 
yeast is always ready and reliable, should you get a yeast cake that is soft and 
mushy, have it exchanged, as it is no loss to your grocer, the Fleischmann's 
being willing to exchange all such yeast and replace it with fresh stock. It 
surprises me often when talking with professional bakers, how they are de- 
lighted when they make a bargain in buying a lot of cheap flour; many of 
them have not yet learned the importance of the fact, that the very best flour 
cannot be too good for bread baking and will repay the difference double in 
the quantity of loaves, not speaking of the quality. To try flour, (especially 
spring patent), put a handful on a paste board, take a clean, very smooth 
knife and slide over the flour pressing it down, if the knife is free from flour 
and the flour smooth and without any dark streaks in it, it is alright, and still 
it wants to have a kind of a granulated appearance. If you have a chance 
to compare a few different brands of flour in that way, you will readily see 
the difference. 



54 

If you are in doubt about flour being damp on bottom of barrel or 
poorer flour being mixed in, you can open the barrel on the bottom and test 
the quality. Take a handful of flour from the barrel and close the hand on 
it, pressing it into a solid, smooth lump, then open the hand again and the 
flour must show the marks of the fingers, like a mould, but the fingers must 
be free from any flour, if it does not stand this test it is not sound spring pat- 
ent wheat. Flour should never have a reddish or dark look when examined 
in the light; unless } T ou have bought it for cheap flour for molasses work. It is 
also a mistake to set dough with one kind of flour as with another. If you 
have a good straight patent flour, one Fleischmann's yeast cake is sufficient 
for three quarts of flour in summer or two quarts in winter, but if you have 
poor flour, which you must use, set sponge over night; handle the dough 
warmer also, and set sponge first; give it plenty of time and do not bake too 
hot. 

WHEAT BREAD. (Without Sponge). 

In warm weather at nine o'clock, in cold weather at seven in the even- 
ing set dough. 

Do not set any sponge. This recipe is based on the strength of 
Parker's Best. Brown's Patent, Pillsburry's Best, and all such good patent 
flour can be used for this recipe, but must be set a little stiffer; as Parker's 
Best is extra strong. Dissolve one of Fleischmann's yeast cakes with one cup 
of milk, in winter have it lukewarm; then add three cups of cold water, 
(lukewarm in cold weather), one teaspoon salt, two tablespoons of shortening, 
one tablespoon sugar, and two quarts of flour sifted into it; mix all into stiff 
dough, grease over the top with a little lard to keep from getting a crust 
cover with a cloth and set away over night. In hot weather keep in cool 
room; in winter near the stove. In the morning just take the dough out and 
cut into three loaves, mould up and let rise to top of tins, and bake from forty 
to fifty minutes. 

WHEAT BREAD. (With Sponge). 

This bread, if following my instructions, is very rich and can be cut as 
soon as baked and keeps moist for four days. Set sponge with two yeast 
cakes, one quart warm water and enough sifted flour to make a batter little 
stiffer than for pan cakes. If the flour is very cold in winter, warm the flour 
also good. This sponge should fall in two hours, and then come up again to 



55 

% 

be ready in three hours at the longest. Then add another quart of warm 

water (part milk if preferred), one cup of lard and butter mixed, two even 
tablespoons salt, three table poons sugar; mix all up good with the sponge 
and add enough sifted flour to make dough not as stiff as you would without 
sponge. Mix very good and let rise about one and a half hours in warm 
place. Then cut up into loaves and mould round, let rest on board a while, 
and then mould up and let rise in the greased bread tins to the top, then have 
oven good and hot and bake; should not bake any longer than forty minutes. 
If you should be compelled to use poor flour once, this mixture will help to 
improve it, as it would not give the poor qualities of the flour a chance to 
sour your dough. By fine spring patent the whole process, from sponge to a 
baked loaf, should not take more than seven hours, but if poor flour is used 
allow one hour more, keep everything good and warm around it and allow no 
draughts. 

BISCUITS AMD ROLLS. 

The above mixture is very fine for biscuits and rolls, and only need 
little milk, and a little extra butter added when mixing the dough, and knead 
very thoroughly. 

RAISED BISCUITS. (Very tine). 

Dissolve two Fleischmann's yeast cakes in one pint of warm milk, add 
one pint of water, one cupful of butter, pinch of salt, three even tablespoons 
of sugar; mix all up good with sufficient flour sifted to make a light smooth 
dough, not as stiff as for bread. It will be raised in about two hours, push 
down and break off into biscuits, roll up round and set not too close together 
and let raise to the top of biscuit tins. 

FRENCH ROLLS. 
Any of the two above doughs can be used; break off size of biscuits, roll 
up round, set on board dusted with flour; let raise, then make a deep dent in 
the middle with round thin rolling pin, wash with a little melted butter and 
turn one end over the other, doubling them up. 

FINGER ROLLS OR LADY WASHINGTON ROLLS. 

Dough same as for biscuits No. 2. Grease your moulding board and your 
hands also, break off half the size of biscuit, roll up round and let raise a little; 
then roll out three inches long and lay close together on greased tins, let 
raise in warm place about half an hour and bake in moderate heat. If oven 
is not very hot, wash on top with egg and milk mixed before baking. 



56 

TEA. BISCUITS. (Baking Powder). 

One pound of bread flour sifted with three even teaspoons Thatcher's 
baking powder, half a teaspoon of salt, rub fine with this two ounces of lard; 
then add not quite a pint of milk, mix quick and light, dust your board with 
flour, roll out three-quarters of one inch thick and cut out with regular bis- 
cuit cutter; set on greased tins, prick each biscuit with a fork, wash with 
milk and bake hot. Work the dough as little as possible and bake soon as 
made up. 

FBEKCH ROLLS. (Baking Powder). 

VERY FINE AND CRISP. 

If you want some rolls made quick, add four ounces of butter in place 
of lard to the above mixture, roll quarter of an inch thick, cut out with large 
cookie cutter, wash with molted butter, double over, together, wash with egg 
on top only and bake quick. 

WHEAT BREAD. (Baking Powder). 

Mix together as for tea biscuits, one quart of bread flour, sifted with 
one ounce Thatcher's baking powder two ounces of lard, half teaspoon salt, 
then mix light with very near a pint of milk, and mould up smooth in a loaf 
and bake in deep bread tin; bake same heat as yeast bread, but watch so it 
does not get a crust too quick; soon as raised on top, cover with greased pa- 
per for fifteen minutes; will take from thirty to forty minutes; can be cut as 
soon as cold. 

CINNAMON Blim 

In one pint of warm milk, dissolve two yeast cakes and half a cup of 
sugar, quarter of a cup of butter, pinch of salt, one teaspoon Colton's lemon 
extract, two eggs or four yolks may bo added, ii'you want the buns rich, then 
mix in enough sifted flour to make dough not stitfer than for biscuits; let rise 
over night and in the morning roll out half an inch thick in long strips and 
twelve inches wide; wash over with melted butter and dust with cinnamon 
and powdered surars. Eoll up, flatten a little and cut in slices three-quarters 
of an inch thick, set them, the cut side on top, on greased tins; let raise as 
biscuits. When baked, cover with vanilla frosting. 



57 

CURRANT BUWS. 

Proceed the same, only with the cinnamon sugar, sprinkle some washed 
currants over it, then roll up round, do not flatten, cut in slices and finish, same 
as cinnamon huns 

HOT CROSS BU>S, 

Mixture is same as above. Make up little biscuits, set on a greased tin, 
and when raised, cut a deep cross into each bun and wash with milk. Bake 
same as biscuits. 

ZWIEBACK. 

Bake the dough for buns in shape of finger rolls, when cold cut each in 
two and toast brown on clean tins in oven. 

COFFEE CAKES. 

Same dough as for buns. Roll out in cakes, about twelve inches long 
by eight inches wide; when raised, wash with egg and milk mixed; and dust 
with cinnamon sugar. Bake not too hot and prick the cake a little with a 
fork, and if wanted crisp and rich, lay small pieces of butter over the top be- 
fore baking. 

.1I1I.K BREAD. 

Heat one pint fresh milk, reduce to lukewarm with one pint water, add 
one Fleischmann's yeast cake, tablespoon melted butter, good teaspoon salt 
tablespoon sugar and enough flour to make dough not so stiff as for other 
kinds of wheat bread; then when raised about three hours, put on moulding 
board, make up with little more flour into loaves, cover with cloth and let 
raise a while; then make up in regular bread shape, lay on greased tins adn 
cover over with another bread tin, which you have greased good and put over 
the loaves upside down. When raised about one hour in a warm place, bake 
in moderate oven forty minutes. If 3-011 have two old tins, punch a few holes 
in the bottom and use them for milk bread. This bread will not have any 
hard crust. 

POTATO YEAST. 

Below I will give a good recipe of stock yeast, which is the very best 
and most economical for all breakfast cakes, muffins, graham, rye and brown 
bread. 



58 

Cook three large potatoes, washed but not peeled, with enough water 
until soft. Put in a jar and at once, while boiling hot, add one pint flour, mash 
the potatoes fine with wooden stick, mixing them up with the flour, then add 
one quart water and reduce the whole to blood heat, dissolve two Fleiscll- 
mauii's yeast cakes in little water, add the rest, all good together and set 
away in warm place where it can not be disturbed; cover up. Let stand at 
least twelve hours, when you look at it then, without disturbing it must show 
a mark on the jar, where it had risen to, and it must have fallen again half 
way, before ready for use, then stir up good and strain, but do not press the 
cullender. A half a cup of this yeast is sufficient for a quart batter of any 
buckwheat or breakfast cakes. It will keep from three to four days fresh,if kept 
cool and not disturbed. Always stir up good when you want to pour some 
out, but then set away to rest again until next day. 

GRAHAM BREAD. 

Dissolve one yeast cake in half pint warm water, add one-fourth cup 
very dark Porto Rico Molasses, one-half cup milk and water mixed, one-half 
teaspoon salt, mix together; then add one pint graham flour and enough 
wheat flour to make a soft dough. Let stand over night, and work over with 
little more flour in the morning; let rest a while and then mould up in one 
large or two small loaves. This bread will have to bake slower than wheat 
bi'ead. In place of the yeast cake a half pint of the potato stock will give 
very nice graham bread. Galvanized iron bread tins are better for graham 
bread then tin ones. 

RYE BREAD. 

All is the same as for graham, only one and one-half pints rye flour 
take the place of the graham flour; take no molasses. Bake in round tins 
an hour. Take the potato yeast, three-quarters of a pint. 

BOSTON BROWN BREAD. (Yeast.) 

One pint corn meal, one-half pint rye flour, (better rj^e meal), one- 
half pint graham flour and one-half pint soft wheat flour; mix all with one 
teaspoon salt. Dissolve one Fleischmann's yeast cake or one cup potato yeast 
with one>half cup dark molasses and one quart mills Mix all good and if too 



59 

stiff, add a little water. Make no stiffer then corn muffins, and put in greased 
deep tin cans, cover with some cover; do not fill cans more than half full, set 
in a pan, fill one and one-half inch deep with water, so they will half steam 
and half bake; leave in oven three and one-half to four hours. If oven bakes 
from one side, turn around after one hour. Let oven cool a little after two 
hours. Turn out of oven after five minutes. 

BOSTON BROWN BREAD. (Baking Powder.) 

Ingredients same as above, only use in place of yeast two tablespoons- 
ful of Thatcher's baking powder, mixed dry with all the flour. Use butter- 
milk if possible and bake only three hours. 

€OM GE9I§ OB ROLLS. 

Grease deep gem tins very good and heat them good; fill hall with the 
following mixture: three ounces corn meal, two ounces sugar, two ounces lard 
or butter, two eggs, all mixed up light; then add one-half pint milk and one- 
half pound cake flour sifted with one ounce baking powder, (three-fourth 
ounce of Thatcher's is sufficient); bake hot about ten minutes. 

JOHNNIE CAKE. 

Take same mixture, only use two ounces more butter and bake in long 
flat cake tin. 

GBAHA9I BOLLS. 

Are made of the graham bread dough, baked in gem tins; bake same 
heat as biscuits, about ten minutes. 

GBAHAM GEMS. 

Grease patty tins well and fill half full with the following mixture! 
half cup of sugar, half cup of lard, quarter of a cup of dark molasses, two eggs, 
one and one-half cups milk, one teaspoon salt, all mixed, then add one cup of 
graham flour and one to two cups cake flour, sifted with one heaping tea* 
spoon Thatcher's baking powder. Bake quick, about ten minutes. This is 
an excellent breakfast gem. 



60 
WHEAT GEMS. 

Beat together, half a cup of sugar, half a cup of butter and lard, mixed; 
add two eggs, or better, four yolks, one and one-half cups of sour milk; in the 
milk dissolve half a teapoon of saleratus, then mix all light with one pint of 
pastry flour, sifted with one even teaspoon cream of tartar. Bake same as 
graham gems. If too soft, add little more flour. 

ENGLISH WHEAT MUFFINS. 

Mix one yeast cake in half a cup of warm water, add one cup of warm 
milk, two tablespoons melted butter, two tablespoons sugar, little salt, enough 
flour to stiff batter; let rise, then add three eggs, beat all well and fill in muf- 
fin rings; bake in hot oven and serve immediately. 

OLD TIME MUFFINS. 

With one cup of potato yeast and one cup of warm milk, and enough 
pastry flour and one teaspoon salt, make a stiff batter and let stand over 
night in a deep basin where it will not run over, cover up. In the morning 
add two or three eggs, half cup of sugar, little more flour, beat all well; let 
stand half an hour and stir again; bake in greased muffin rings in hot oven. 

BUCKWHEAT CAKES. 

Dissolve half a yeast cake in half a cup of warm water, (or take half a 
cup of the stock yeast), add one quart cool milk, but not chilled, teaspoon of 
salt, little corn meal and enough buckwheat to make a stiff batter, but not as 
stiff as dough ; mix good and keep in stone jar over night in warm place cov- 
ered up. In the morning stir up good, if necessary, add little more warm 
water and handful sugar. Bake hot on greased griddle. 

BUCKWHEAT CAKES. (Baking Powder.) 

Mix together dry, one pound buckwheat flour, one pinch of salt, one 
tablespoon brown sugar, two tablespoons corn meal, all sifted with two heap- 
ing teaspoons Thatcher's baking powder; mix with enough milk to batter, not 
too thin ; just before you want to bake them, grease griddle very good so they 
will fry quick. 



61 

WHEAT CAHES. 

Have your griddle good and hot and well greased. Beat up good, two 
eggs, half teaspoon salt, one tablespoon granulated sugar, then add half cup of 
cream or milk and beat again, then sift into this enough pastry flour with one 
tablespoon of Thatcher's baking powder; beat well again, have batter very 
thin and bake quick. It may seem to be a rich mixture for plain pan cakes, 
but remember yon can have the mixture very soft, so to run them out very 
thin and get more cakes and a most delicious breakfast dish. 

WHEAT WAFFIilES. 

Over night, set one-half cup of the potato yeast, (or a half yeast cake 
dissolved in half cup of lukewarm milk), with enough pastry flour and one pint 
of milk to a stiff batter; in the morning stir up very light, four eggs with 
handful sugar, little salt and add to the batter; beat well and bake in hot 
tins; little nutmeg for flavor. 




*f*HUits on Bread Baking.*: 



For all wheat bread use the very best patent flour, 
(called spring patent), and always sift it first. 



For buns, coffee cakes and sweet bread, you can al- 
ways mix one-third pastry flour with the patent flour. 



Young or new flour, that is flour made out of very 
fresh wheat, never bakes even and generally raises very slow 
and gives the bread no color. 



Vienna bread can be made out of my first bread mix- 
ture, (without sponge), by giving it half hour extra time to 
rest on the table before moulding up. Roll out fourteen 
inches long and pointy on both ends; set on a greased tin, 
when raised good, wash with milk; cut with sharp knife 
three times across, and bake in hot oven. 



63 



French Bread is the same, only baked in half round 
and long tins; bake good and crispy; not pointy on the 
ends- 



Eye Bread is always improved by adding caraway 
seeds. 



If you have a piece of dough left over, save it and 
cover with water. Use as sour dough for rye bread. 



Always keep yeast in dry, cold place until wanted to 
use. 



For all gems and soft doughs, the recipe for potato 
yeast is preferable, especially in winter. 



If you like to keep Fleischmann's yeast fresh on hand, 
put the yeast in glass or stone jar, and cover two inches with 
water. Whenever you wish to use some of the yeast, pour 
off the water, take out with spoon what yeast you need, 
cover the rest again with fresh water. One tablespoon of 
this paste is equal to half a yeast cake. 



64 



Always see that your oven is heated through before 
you are ready to bake in it, then close all dampers, set a lit- 
tle basin with boiling water in it to make a kind of steam or 
moisture before you put the bread in. 



All kinds of cereals can be used for breakfast dishes by 
following my general formulas and changing whatever 
cereals is wanted. 



If you are using dried yeast cakes or yeast powder, al- 
ways set sponge and have it good and warm, keep at all 
times as warm as possible, so it will not get too old. 



Sweet Bread, Fruit Buns or Coffee Cakes can be made 
from bread dough, if not desired so rich; just add little 
sugar with butter; let rest before moulding up in desired 
form. Little cinnamon or Colton's lemon may be added to 
advantage. 



Never use more than one small teaspoon salt to every 
quart of flour. 



65 

Too much salt keeps bread back from raising good. 



If you wash bread, biscuits and rolls with butter, after 
baking, it will soften the crust and make it tender. 



Many people like potatoes in bread. The potato con- 
tains a kind of starch which furthers fermentation and makes 
bakestuff white. Yeast with potatoes keeps bread moister 
and sweeter than without potatoes. 



Never set yeast or dough in tin or iron ware, as this 
darkens the color of yeast and dough, and do not stir with 
tin spoons, use wooden spatula or stick. 



For buckwheat cake you can save about half pint bat- 
ter every morning and use at night again as ferment for next 
mornings baking, and use only half as much new yeast. 
This is only meant for yeast batter. 



COLTON'S 

SELECT FLAYORS, 

ARE EXTRACTED FROM THE 

^CHOICEST • FRaiTS> 



Used in all Leading Hotels and for Sale by all Dealers in Fine 
Delicacies and Fancy Groceries, 



PREPARED AT 

J. W. COLTON'S Ubosmwy, 

WESTFIELD, MASS. 



USE 

BRAUN'S 



-FOR- 



Pui\ches, Sauces aijtl General flaking. 



Perfectly fjarnjless 1 V er 7 Strong- 



Sent, Postage Prepaid, on Receipt of 25 Gents, 



J". IBIR-A-TTZtsT. 

Gor. Devereux and Charlotte Sts., Utica, N. Y. 



PART VIII. 



All kinds of Frostings, Fillings of Creams and Jellies, Colors 
and flavors. General instructions. 



HOW TO FROST A CAKE. 

A cake should only be frosted while hot, in case of necessity and when 
it is wanted to dry quick and can be served immediately, because the steam 
from the cake will melt the frosting and soak in the cake, it will after a 
while be spotted and by fruit cakes turn yellow. The frosting will also run 
down the sides and not cook smooth. While there is a great variety of fla- 
vors used in cakes and fillings, there is in general, very little attention paid 
to the delicacy or the appeai-ance of the frosting. While working in the 
Imperial Court Confectionery, during the time of Emperor William I, the chef 
did not allow any cake or tarts to leave the kitchen, until he had pinched a 
little piece of frosting from the cake; to examine as to the proper acidity and 
flavor. The cake was supposed to be alright, being made accurately from the 
recipe, but the frostings are flavored by taste and individual judgment. In 
that celebrated kitchen we were not even allowed to eat any mustard or pick- 
les at the table, so as to retain and strengthen the power and sensitiveness of 
taste. 

The frosting is just as important to a good cake, as the proper sauce is 
to the pudding. I will therefore pay special attention to this point, as many 
a cook and housekeeper, and even many of the professional bakers, neglect to 
pay th3 proper attention to this finishing part of the baking. 

Never ice or frost a cake with ornamenting icing, as it will get so hard 
in a day or two that it will be impossible to cut it. 



69 

A little lemon juice will improve any frosting of fruit flavor. If lemons 
are not at hand, or when a good deal of frosting is used, dissolve quarter of 
an ounce of tartaric acid in a cup of water and put away in a bottle with a 
conspicious label on, so }^ou will not use it in mistake of anything else. 

B<»1I,EI> CBE.IH FROSTING. 

Especially used fore sponge cakes, angelfood and cup cakes. 

Two and a half pounds of granulated sugar together with half pint of 
boiling water, place on good fire, stir until dissolved, when commencing to 
boil wash down with wet clean rag all sugar from the sides of the kettle or 
sauce pan, add another small cup of water, in which you have dissolved one- 
half of a teaspoon of cream of tartar. Boil all until it reaches the test of the 
" ball," after commencing to boil do not disturb, stir or move until done. 
Prove like this: have abasin with ice water in it near the fire handy, dip a 
knife in the ice water first, then dip it in the boiling sugar and quickly return 
to the ice water, then loosen the sugar from the knife and roll between your 
fingers, and if you can form a ball with it, which is soft yet, it is ready to take 
from the fire; now have a large platter sprinkled with ice water and pour 
the sugar on it, a very large tin pan will answer, and if you have a marble 
slab, that would be best; but then you would have to make a frame of wood 
or iron bars around the corners to prevent the sugar from running on the 
floor. When cool take a wooden spatula or a scraper and stir in one direc- 
tion continually until it all gets creamy and hard, then scrape all together in 
one lump and cut up in pieces and pack by pounding down in a jar; will keep 
a good while and is always ready. But it takes little experience, and if it is 
too hard first time, cook one minute less next time or a minute longer if too 
soft. When you want to use some of this frosting, dissolve in a little sauce 
pan on hot stove; add little lemon juice and few drops of hot water and frost 
at once. Any flavor can be used for this; but for cup cakes and sponge 
cakes the lemon juice alone will make it delicious. 

BOILED FBOSTOTG. (Oermaii style.) 

This frosting is generally used for honey cakes and molasses cakes. 
Boil one pound of granulated sugar with two-thirds of a cup of hot water to 
same degree as above, then while hot, have cakes ready and take a little 
of the frosting on a coarse brush and rub over the cake rapidly until it is all 
creamy and dry; need no flavor for this. 



70 
PEA IN WATER FROSTING. 

Sift some confectionery powdered sugar, (the proper name is XXXX 
powdered sugar), through very fine sieve; put in abowland add one-quarter of 
a teaspoon of cream of tartar to every cupful of sugar, mix it with enough 
boiling water to make a paste, then beat a few minutes good and flavor to 
taste. When any fruit flavor is used, lemon, orange or pineapple, use half a 
teaspoon of the acid solution, mentioned in this part or a little lemon juice. 
This frosting should not be very stiff, so as not to get too thick on cake, but 
pay more attention to the delicacy of the flavor than the quantity. For va- 
nilla frosting, do not fcike any acid or lemon. 

PEAIN EGG FROSTING. 

If you like to have a cake frosted thicker, use the following formula: 
With one white of egg mix enough confectionery powdered sugar to stiffen; 
beat this good with a small wooden paddle, then add half teaspoon of Ox 
Gelatine, dissolved in two tablespoons of hot water, mix all well and add fla- 
vor. Colton's vanilla is especialty favored for this kind of frosting. 

ORANGE FROSTING. 

Heat one orange juice and grated peel, when near boiling, strain and 
mix with enough powdered sugar and three drops of the acid solution to a 
paste, just stiff enough to spread with a wet knife; when cake is covered all 
over, set half minute in oven, leaving the door open, which will make it shine 
and dry quicker. 

FOR COCOANUT FROSTING. 

Use the plain egg frosting, flavored with vanilla, and cover all over 
with Dunham's shredded cocoanut. 

CHOCOLATE FROSTING. 

Put one ounce of Baker's chocolate cut up fine in a small tin basin, add 
one even teaspoon of good butter and set in oven until good and hot, (about 
two minutes), have a cupful of plain water frosting, good, warm and very 
soft. When the chocolate is heated, stir with a knife until all dissolved, then 
pour in it the plain frosting slowly, mix all good, and if too stiff, stir on stove 
a minute until soft enough and use at once; this is a very simple method, but 



71 

will dry quick and shine for a long time and will please everybody. I have 
not found any chocolate frosting in twenty years giving near as good satis- 
faction. If frosting is a little stiff, set the whole cake in oven for half a min- 
ute, just long enough to let the heat strike it so as it will shine. Little vanilla 
will improve it. 

GEEATOTE FROSTIIG. 

Dissolve one tablespoon of ox gelatine in half a cup of boiling water, 
beat up frosting good and mix with enough powdered sugar to smooth; add 
little lemon juice for flavor. 

Where a good deal of frosting is used, it pays to add a 
little white glue to every frosting, you will not need any 
eggs then. As white glue is inexpensive, you can buy five 
cents worth in drug store; dissolve one piece at a time in suf- 
cient hot water to cover the glue, and beat into the frost- 
ing, it will make it shiney and tender and is harmless and al- 
most odorless and very good if not used too much. 



All cakes should be exposed to the oven heat for half 
a minute after frosted, unless the cake is hot yet itself. 



XXXX Confectioners' powdered sugar, costs one or 
two cents more a pound, but takes more water than the 
common powdered sugar and makes finer frosting, thereby 
repaying the little extra expense. 



72 

©RlfAMEMTIWG ICOfG. 

Beat enough confectioners powdered sugar with one white of egg and 
pinch of cream of tartar or six drops of acitic acid, very stiff and light; no 
particle of the yellow of the egg can be mixed in, also must the basin and 
spoon or stick be free from any grease, the basin must be all dry and very 
clean or the icing will not stand up when done. 

CUSTARD CREAM FIEEING. 

FOR LAYER CAKES AND CREAM PUFFS. 

Set one pint of milk with one-third of a cup of sugar in a sauce pan in. 
to another dish of boiling water or use the double oat meal boiler. When 
milk commences to boil, stir into it the following mixture: Two heaping table- 
spoons of Oswego corn starch with five yolks or two whole eggs, mixed to- 
gether with a little water; stir all on the fire until it thickens, then take it off; 
add pinch of sa't and good teaspoon of butter, beat up good and smooth, add 
one teaspoon of Colton's tripple vanilla, and cream is ready for use. 

WSIIFPEI* CREAM. 

Before cream is fit to whip to froth it must be twenty-four hours old, 
and have rested undisturbed as long as possible in cold room. Then set the 
basin with the cream into a pan of ice water and beat in the same direction 
slow with large egg beater. When all stiff, add one-half cup of sifted pow- 
dered sugar to each pint of cream, let rest again, so the milk can settle on the 
bottom, then it is ready for use. Use Colton's vanilla for flavor. 

APPLE FIEEING. 

Stir with half a lemon juice and rind, enough powdered sugar to stiff 
frosting, add to it one grated tart apple and mix good and use. 

ORANGE CREAM. 

Boil one pint of water with one cup of sugar, then add mixture of one 
orange juice and grated rind, with one or two eggs, and two tablespoons of 
Kingsford's corn starch, mixed, then proceed the same as with custard filling, 

EEMOtf FILLING 

Is the same, only use lemon instead of orange. 



73 

COCO 1 NUT FILLING. 

Mix with every cup of boiled cream frosting, one-half cup of Dunham's 
shredded cocoanut. 

CHOCOLATE FILLING. 

Use the formula of my chocolate frosting, only make not quite so thin> 
and be sure and add a little of vanilla (Colton's.) 

LEMON JELLY. 

For filling tarts, jelly rolls, and layer cakes. 

One-half pint of water boiled with half a cup of granulated sifgar, and 
one lemon juice and grated rind, stir into this two tablespoons of Oswego 
corn starch, dissolved with a little cold water, little salt; as soon as it com- 
mences to thicken remove from fire and stir a few minutes still. Use this 
jelly while hot if possible, as it will look smooth and clear. 

Any other kind of fruit jelly can be made in this way for fillings in a 
few minutes, and it costs but very little to prepare it. 

RED COLORING. (Safe and Bright.) 

Mix together in a porcelain or stone basin (no tin whatever) one equal 
part of each: 

Powdered Cochineal, one quarter of an ounce. 
Alum, " " " " 

Sal. Tartar, " " " " 

" Cream of Tartar, one quarter of an ounce, 

and one gill of alcohol. Let stand over night, then ndd one-half pint of warm 
water, then filter and put it in a large glass bottle, and add one-half ounce of 
powdered clean gum arable, shake the bottle once in a while until the gutn is 
dissolved. 



74 

Yellow Coloring : Saffron is generally used. Put one 
tablespoon of saffron in a bottle, pour over four tablespoons 
of alcohol and let this stand one hour, then add four table- 
spoons of water, shake bottle good and let stand as long as 
possible, shaking it once in a while, then filter through cotton 
flannel or filtering paper and put away for use. 



For Blue Coloring, ask the druggist for pure soluble 
Prussian blue, one dram in two ounce bottle and have it 
filled up with soft water. 



Thes colors are all good and bright for making colored 
sugar sand; this is made in the following way: Sift enough 
granulated sugar in fine sieve so all dust will be separated, 
then put on a china dish or deep platter; set in oven long 
enough to get the sugar warmed through, then make a lit- 
tle hollow space in the middle of the dish; pour in about 
one -quarter teaspoon of any of these colorings to a pint of 
sugar; rub the color with little of the sugar first; gradually 
add more until finally all is saturated evenly with the color, 
set in oven until warm again and take out and sift through 
coarse sieve, then warm again and sift until perfectly dry, 
then it is ready for use. 



*Ott)$r Worthy ttectyes.#3* 



To wash English currants is very important, whenever they are to be 
used. To every pound of currants add a handful of common flour and rub 
together to loosen the stems from the fruit, sift them good in a coarse sieve 
(or cullender), then place in a pail and fill it with hot water, let stand two 
minutes to swell the fruit a little, but not enough to soften too much ; then 
strain the water off and rejDeat the same with cold water until the water runs 
off clear, then place in a sieve and run water through them once more; set in 
a tin pan to dry. The safest way is to dry in the sun, but I prefer to dry in 
oven. Set pan in oven until good and hot, then stir the fruit up well and 
replace in oven, continue this until good and swelled up, do not close oven 
door so they will not get hard; when commencing to dry, spread them out, 
and when cold, sift and pick over once more and put away in glass jar or any 
tightly covered dish. By this process they will have a flavor as if soaked in 
wine. 

SEEDLESS RAISINS 

Are prepared in the same way, only care must be taken, not to get 
them too soft in the hot water. 

TO STONE RAISINS, 

So they will not stick so to the fingers is done by simply soaking them 
in hot water (after the stems have been picked off; for two minutes, then rinse 
in ice cold water and drain, when you can easily open them and remove all 
seeds. 

BLANCHED AEHONOS 

Are prepared as follows: Place the almonds in boiling water in a sauce 
pan and set to simmer a few minutes, stir up from bottom once in a while. 
Soon as skin comes loose easy; pour off the hot water and rinse them with 



76 

ice cold water, skin as quick as possible before they dry again. Then place 
on clean thick paper in oven and stir once in a while until they are dry. If 
you let them dry alone and slow they get musty very quick. Sicily almonds 
are generally used to blanch. 

SALTED ALMONDS. 

Some cooks add butter to them, but they cannot be kept fresh long 
I always had very flattering results with my own recipe, which allows to keep 
them fresh a food while, if kept dry and covered. Jordan almonds should be 
used if possible. Blanch the same as above, then lay them in a very bright 
tin basin, sprinkled good with table salt; set in oven and when commencing 
to dry, shake them up good and salt a little more, put back in oven and 
roast slow until light brown. 

BAUED APPLES. 

The best method I have found so far is this: cut the core out of the 
apples and place them in a biscuit or any other deep pan, and pour boiling 
water over them until they are covered, in two minutes pour water off but 
leave enough in the pan to cover the bottom good, then fill the cavities with 
brown sugar; s:ick two whole cloves in each apple and lay two sticks of cin- 
namon in the pan, they will bake quicker than any other way and not shrink 
whatever. When cold, pour the juice over them. 

QUINCES 

Are prepared the same way, only scald for three minutes in hot water. 

SAUCE OF DRIED BERRIES. 

The general custom is to soak fruits over night, but 1 find the following 
far better: Sift the hard seeds from the berries through coarse sieve, then 
rinse in hot water; pour water off again to remove dirt, then get a quart of 
water to boil with half a teaspoon of salt, add half a pound of berries and let 
soak quick until swelled up, then add one-half to one pound of brown sugar } 
according to the taste, and let simmer slow until the sugar is all dissolved; a 
little lemon, mace or a stick of cinnamon can be added. 



77 
I, KNOX SUGAR. 

Grate the lemon peel off a little deeper than usual, mix with enough 
granulated sugar and let dry in a warm place. Then pound in a mortar to a 
powder and set away in glass jars covered tight. 

ORANGE SUGAR 

Is made on the same principle. 

VAtflEEA SUGAR. 

Cut one long sound vanilla bean in small pieces, add a few lumps of 
hard loaf sugar to it in a mortar and pound fine, then sift through very fine 
sieve, what is left pound again with more loaf sugar and sift; use not more 
than half a- pound of sugar to a large bean. Keep in glass jars covered tight. 

ORANGE AND I,E9IOtf ZEST. 

To get only the very finest flavor, (the zest or oily surface of the peel), 
the fruit is rubbed over lumps of sugar, until the sugar is soaked with the 
oil, then scrape this off the sugar and so on until enough fruit flavor is se- 
cured. By this method you surely get the most delicate genuine aroma of 
the orange and lemon without any bitter taste to it. In Europe, this way of 
extracting fruit flavor is most exclusively used for ice creams and custards. 




n 




AT the conclusion of this book, I must add a few words as to the compact 
setting of my recipes. As a general rule, all the ingredients are 
placed on top of recipe in a formula, then the same explained afterwards how to 
be used. I have avoided this loss of space, and complicated method, where most 
everybody gets mixed up before they have the whole recipe together. I sim- 
ply give the ingredients as they follow each other and belong together in the 
recipe. Furthermore, most every one of my formulas, when once learned, will 
cover a dozen different recipes. They are most all stock formulas, enabling 
the most inexperienced to construct their own recipes. 



I WOULD like to call attention to the few select advertisements in 
this book. Having found by long experience that the very best materi- 
als are always the cheapest in the end, I use only the best brands of every- 
thing, therefore I mention those special brands in my recipes, and can heartily 
vouch for their purity and quality. 




INDEX. 



PART I. 

Page. 

Prepared Seasoning 5 

Flour for Pies • 5 

How to Prepare Pies 5 

Common Pie Paste 6 

American Puff Paste 6 

French Puff Paste 7 

Vienna Tart Paste 7 

Evaporated Dried Fruits 7 

Custard Pies T 

Lemon Pies , 8 

Pumpkin or Squash Pie 8 

Cream Pie 8 

Cream Meringue Pie 9 

Peach Meringue Pie, European style 9 

Mince Meat for Pies 9 

Russian Spice Pie 9 

French Madelaine Pie 10 

French Madelaine Tarts 10 

Rice Pie a 10 

Southern Custard Pie 10 

Potato Pie 10 

Rhubarb Pie 10 

European Cherry Pie 10 

Apple Flamri Tarts 1 

Imperial Currant Pie and Tarts 1 

Vanilla Cream Tarts, (Imperial) 1 

French Tartlets 1 

Metropolitan Cream Tarts, . » 1 

Golden Rules for Pie Baking 12 



80 

PART II. 

Cottage Bread Pudding 17 

Bread and Butter Pudding 17 

Farina or Indian Meal Pudding 17 

Souffle 17 

Tapioca and Sago Pudding 17 

Cottage Rice Pudding 18 

Rice Pudding, family Style 18 

Cabinet Pudding 18 

Diplomatic Pudding 18 

Tutti Frutti Pudding 18 

Cold Farina or Indian Pudding 18 

Pudding Sauces 19 

Chateaux Sauce 19 

Hard Sauce 19 

Rum Sauce 19 

Cream Sauce 19 

French Cream Sauce ". 19 

Yankee Sauce 19 

Ice Cream . 19 

American Cream 20 

Common Cream 20 

Frozen Custard or Vienna Ice Cream 20 

Fruit Cream 20 

Chocolate Ice Cream 20 

Coffee Ice Cream 20 

Bisque Cream 20 

Flavor Cream 20 

Sherbets and Punches 20 

Roman Punch . 21 

Cardinal Punch . . . 21 

Pineapple Sherbet 21 

A.11 other Fruits . . 21 

Frozen Fruits 21 

Water Ices 21 

Frozen Lemonade 22 

Jellies and Cold Desserts 22 



81 

Page 
Jelly Stock 22 

Wine Jelly 22 

Champagne Jelly 23 

Orange Jelly 23 

Fruit Jelly . . 23 

Snow Pudding 23 

Demi Glace of Coffee 23 

Blanc Mange 23 

Gravy Stock 23 

Charlotte Russe 24 

Swiss Cream Meringue 24 

Combination of Puddings and Sauces 24 

Hints on Desserts , 24 

Steamed Puddings 26 

Roily Polly 26 

Fruit Dumplings 26 

Boiled Indian Pudding 26 

Poor Man's Pudding 26 

English Plum Pudding 26 

Genuine Old English Plum Pudding 27 

Hints on Steamed and Boiled Puddings 28 



PART III. 

Page. 
About Weights and Measures 32 



PART IV. 

Page. 

Molasses Work 3 4 

Molasses Ginger Bread 34 

English Currant Slices 34 

Molasses Cookies 34 



82 

Page. 

Ginger Nuts 35 

Spice Cup Cake ■"••'■ 35 

Punch Slices 35 

Molasses Fruit Cake 35 

Bolivers 25 

Ginger Snaps and Wafers 36 

Cinnamon Wafers 36 

Berkshire Cakes 36 



PART V. 

Page. 

Loaf Cakes 37 

Sponge Cake, (warm) 37 

Sponge Cake, (cold) 37 

Real Pound Cake 37 

Pound Kaisin Cake 38 

Wine Cake, (Duchess style) 38 

Angel Food 38 

Silver and Lady Cake 38 

Citron Cake 38 

Gold Cake 39 

La}^er Cake - 39 

Marble Cake 39 

Wedding Cake, white 39 

Wedding Cake, dark 39 

Hints on Loaf Cake 40 



PART VI. 

Page. 

Sugar Cookies 42 

Shrewsbury Cakes 42 

Seed Cakes 42 



83 



Jumbles or Drops 42 

Jelly Fingers 43 

Vanilla Jumbles 43 

Cocoanut Drops 43 

Spice Jumbles 43 

Sponge Crackers 43 

Almond Croquettes 44 

Vienna Tea Cakes 44 

J elly Roll 44 

New Year Cakes 44 

Cup Cakes 44 

Pound Cup Cakes 45 

Almond Macaroons 45 

Kisses 45 

Cream Kisses 45 

Fruit Kisses 46 

Spanish Kisses 46 

Lady Fingers 46 

Boston Cream Puffs 46 

Chocolate Eclairs „ 46 

Champagne Wafers 46 

Orange Crescents 47 

Fried Cakes 47 

Doughnuts and Crullers 47 

Raised Dougbnuts 48 

Jelly Doughnuts 48 

Rules about Pie Baking 49 



PART VII. 

BREAD, ROLLS AND BISCUITS. 

Page. 

Coffee Cakes, Muffins and Gems 53 

Wheat Bread, (without sponge) 54 

Wheat Bread, (with sponge) 54 



u 



Biscuits and Rolls • 55 

Raised Biscuits • • • 55 

French Rolls 55 

Finger Rolls or Lady Washington Rolls 55 

Tea Biscuits 56 

French Rolls £ 6 

Wheat Bread 56 

Cinnamon Buns • 56 

Currant Bans 57 

Hot Cross Buns 57 

Zwieback 57 

Coffee Cakes 57 

Milk Bread ■'•■•■ 57 

Potato Yeast 57 

Graham Bread • • • 58 

Rye Bread • 58 

Boston Brown Bread, Yeast .58 

Boston Brown Bread, Baking Powder 59 

Corn Gems or Rolls 59 

Johnnie Cake 59 

Graham Rolls 59 

Graham Gems 59 

Wheat Gems .60 

English Wheat Muffins : 60 

Old Time Muffins 60 

Buckwheat Cakes 60 

Buckwheat Cakes (Baking Powder) 60 

Wheat Cakes 61 

Wheat Waffles 61 

Hints on Bread Baking. ...... 62 



PART VIII. 

Page. 
How to Frost a Cake 68 

Boiled Cream Frosting . 69 

Boiled Frosting (German style) 69 



85 

Page. 

Plain Water Frosting 70 

Plain Egg Frosting 70 

Orange Frosting .70 

Cocoanut Frosting 70 

Chocolate Frosting TO 

Gelatine Frosting 71 

Ornamenting Icing 72 

Custard Cream Filling 72 

Whipped Cream 72 

Apple Filling 72 

Orange Cream 72 

Lemon Filling 72 

Cocoanut Filling 73 

Chocolate Filling 73 

Lemon Jelly 73 

Red Coloring 73 

Yellow Coloring 74 

Blue Coloring 74 

To Wash English Currants 75 

Seedless Raisins 75 

To Stone Raisins 75 

Blanched Almonds 75 

Salted Almonds 76 

Baked Apples 76 

Baked Quinces 76 

Sauce of Dried Berries 76 

Lemon Sugar 77 

Orange Sugar 77 

Vanilla Sugar 77 

Orange Zest 77 

Lemon Zest 77 



■A FEW OF THE:- 



Widely-known Hotels where used. 



Very many of the Finest Dealers in this Country sell them. 



GET THE BEST a* 5 WHY? 



I'erfectly Pure 
ICcfost Delicious, 



Unequaled Strength. 
Modi .Economical. 



Fabyan and Crawford Houses, White Moun- 
tains. ' ' Superior both in strength and fla- 
vor. 

Mt. Pleasant and Twin Mountain Houses, 
White Mountains. "Superior to any used " 

United States Hotel, Boston, Mass. 

Broadway Central, New York. "'Have used 
them with great satisfaction for years." 
(1893). Tilly Haynes, Manager. 

Raymond & Whitcomb, Grand World's Fair 
Hotel, Chicago, (1893). 0. G. Barron, Mgr. 

United States Hotel, Saratoga Springs, N. Y» 
' ' They have no equal in strength and fine 
flavor." 

Congress Hall, Saratoga Springs, N. Y. "Used 
them for years." 

The Arlington House, (Feb. 1890), Washing- 
ton, D. C. "For tine quality, refer to us; 
used them 20 years. " T. E. Roeselle. 

Fort William Henry Hotel, Lake George, N. 
Y. (1890). T. E. Roeselle. 

Delevan House, Albany, N. Y. "Excel all 
others." (1890). T. E. Roeselle & Son. 

Sinclair House, White Mountains. "Superior 
to any we have used." 

Seminole Hotel, (Feb. 1890), Winter Park, Fla. 
"Very choice." W. F. Paige. 

Hotel Eastman, (Feb. 1890), Hot Springs, Ark. 
" Prefer them. " O. G. Barron, Manager. 

Spring House, Richfield Springs, N. Y. 

Baggs and Butterfield Houses, Utica, N. Y. 
"The Best." 

Perfectly Pure Extracts of choicest Fruits. No coloring or adul- 
teration ever used. The Best. Unequalled Strength for all. Thousands 
of gross sold. Winning" friends everywhere. Dealers trehle sales 
with them. Every Family should know their delicious Flavors. Ask 
your grocer or dealer for them. 

Laboratory, (Home Depot), Westfield, Mass. 

New York Office, 03 Park Place. 




FOH 25 CERTS, 

We will send you, postage prepaid, a Perfect 

Outfit for making 

LADY FINGERS, KISSES at PUFFS 



ADDRESS: 



J\ IB IR, ^. TT HS[\ 

Gor. Devereux and Charlotte Sts., Utica, N. Y. 



