\ 



* J/^ûf. /^r 




^ 







RFR 13 



/f ?2^£ 






/ 



99 iVacttcar Metfiods 

of Utilising iBottecl l3eef 



AND THE 



©rigirial x\ecipe for IDtewed ohickea- 
by babet 

Preface by Mme. M. de Fontclose 



Translated from the Frerch' ' ■ - 

by •»»»■» 



NEW YORK 

JOHN IRELAND 

11Q9 BROADWAY (_ 3 O 

1893 



<£- 



Copyrighted, 1893, by 
JOHN IRELAND. 






■ 



PRESS OF 

EDWARD O, JENKINS' SON, 

NEW YORK. 



CONTENTS. 



Translator's Note, 5 

Publisher's Note, 7 

Preface, ... . . . . 9 

How to Prepare the Pot-au-feu, and Some 

Opinions on the Value of Bouillon, . 13 



99 Practical Recipes for 
Boiled Beef. 



Utilizing 



Boiled Beef à la Parisienne, 

Boiled Beef with Horse- Radish (Alsatian 

Fashion), .... 
Boiled Beef à la Minute, . 
Boiled Beef with Sauce Chasseur, 
Boiled Beef à l'Indienne, 
Boiled Beef with Hash Sauce, . 
Boiled Beef with the flavor of Game, 
Boiled Beef with Spinach, 
Boiled Beef à la Touranienne, . 
Hashed Beef à la Paysanne, 
Boiled Beef à la Flamande, 
Boiled Beef à la Périgourdine, . 
Boiled Beef à la Bordelaise, 
Boiled Beef à la Colbert, . 
Boiled Beef à la Diplomate, 
Boiled Beef à la Londonnienne, 



21 
22 
23 
?4 
25 
26 
27 
28 
29 
3° 
31 
32 
33 
34 
35 



Bo 

Bo 
Bo 
Bo 

Ho 
Bo 
Bo 
Bo 
Bo 
Bo 
Bo 
Bo 
Bo 
Bo 
Bo 
Bo 
Bo 
Bo 
Bo 
Bo 
Bo 
Bo 
Bo 
Bo 
Bo 
Bo 



led 
led 
led 
led 
led 
led 
led 
led 
led 
led 
led 
led 
led 
led 
led 
led 
led 
led 
led 
led 
led 
led 
led 
led 
led 
led 



Beef à la Villeroy, 


36 


Beef à la Béarnaise, 


37 


Beef à la Hussarde, 


38 


Beef with Tomato Sauce, 


39 


Beef à la Crécy, 


40 


Beef with Artichoke Bottoms, 


4i 


Beef with Lettuce, 


42 


Beef with Saffron Sauce, 


43 


Beef with Kari Sauce, . 


44 


Beef with Gherkin Sauce, 


45 


Beef with Sauerkraut, 


46 


Beef à la Lyonnaise, 


47 


Beef à la Languedocienne, 


48 


Beef à la Provençale, 


• 49 


Beef à la Hollandaise, . 


5o 


Beef à la Viennoise, 


51 


Beef à l'Italienne, . 


52 


Beef with Gasconne Sauce, . 


53 


Beef à la Champenoise, . 


54 


Beef à la Financière, 


■ 55 


Beef genre mode, . 


. 56 


Beef with Tomatoes, 


57 


Beef with a Purée of Potatoes, 


58 


Beet à la Parmentière, . 


• 59 


Beef à la Bruxelloise, 


60 


Beef au " pain perdu," . 


61 



CONTENTS, 



Boiled Beef à la Landaise, 

Boiled Beef à la bonne femme, . 

Boiled Beef à la Bourgeoise, . 

Boiled Beef aux Rocamboles, . 

Boiled Beef with Chestnuts (Swiss Method 

Boiled Beef Sauté with Onions, 

Boiled Beef with Melted Butter, 

Boiled Beef à la Marseillaise, . 

Boiled Beef with sauce matelote, 

Beef au gratin, . 

Beef with Butter, 

Boiled Beef à la Valençoise, 

Boiled Beef à la Sultane, . 

Boiled Beef à l'Anglaise, . 

Hashed Beef en gâteau, . 

Boiled Beef with a Purée of Cabbage, 

Boiled Beef à la Romaine (cos lettuce) 

Boiled Beef à la Toulousaine, 

Boiled Beef à la Soubise, . 

Boiled Beef à la Vosquienne, 

Boiled Beef à la Soissons, 

Boiled Beef au papillotes, 

Boiled Beef with Endive, . 

Boiled Beef Sausage, 

Boiled Beef with Cabbage (Belgian Fashi 

Boiled Beef with Potato Sauce, 

Beef à la mâitre d'hôtel, . 

Boiled Beef à l'Espagnole, 

Beef à la Sainte-Menehould, . 

Beef Croquettes, 

Beef Croquettes (Second Method), 



62 

63 
64 

65 
66 

67 
68 
69 
70 

7i 

72 

73 
74 
75 
76 

77 
78 

79 
80 
81 
82 
83 
84 
85 
ion), 86 

87 
88 



90 

9 1 

92 



Bertrade Beef Croquettes (Third Method), 

Hashed Beef, . 

Boiled Beef au Restaurant, 

Beef en miroton, 

Boiled Beef printemps, 

Boiled Beef à la Mâconnaise, 

Boiled Beef à la Milanaise, 

Boiled Beef with Sausages, 

Boiled Beef à la Marengo, 

Boiled Beef with Chicory . 

Portuguese Boiled Beef, . 

Boiled Beef with Artichokes, 

Boiled Beef à la Strasbourg, 

Boiled Beef gros sel, 

Boiled Beef à la Russe, . 

Cold Dishes 
Boiled Beef with Verjuice, 
Beef à la Vinaigrette, 
Boiled Beef à la Mousquetaire, 
Boiled Beef à la Hongroise, 
Hashed Beef en pâté, 
Boiled Beef à la Tartare, . 
Boiled Beef à l'Allemande, 
Boiled Beef à la rémoulade, 
Boiled Beef with Potato Salad, 
Boiled Beef à la Japonaise, 
Boiled Beef à la Cronstadt, 
King Henry the Fourth's Recipe for 
Stewed Chicken (The Pou!e-au-pot\ 



93 
94 
95 
96 

97 
98 

99 
100 
101 
102 
103 
104 
105 
106 
107 



108 
109 
no 
III 

112 

113 
114 

115 
Il6 
II.7 

Il8 

119 



Family Menus, 



121, 122 



Translator's Note. 

THE intimate connection between bouillon and a dinner of boiled beef 
is not so obvious in this country as in France, the land of wise and 
delightful kitchen thrift. Nevertheless the following recipes may be of 
value to the American housewife in the suggestion of a variety for 
the table, as well as a suggestion for rendering palatable that which is 
perhaps too frequently rejected as unfit for food. Modern science has 
shown that heat coagulates the nourishing elements of beef, a very slight 
amount only being dissolved even when the water is heated gradually. 
The bouillon is a stimulant to the system, and a palatable dish, but the 
despised bouilli is still valuable as a food, and needs only to have some 
degree of flavor restored to it, to make it acceptable to the taste. It is 
confidently believed that the 99 recipes here given, supply that need. 

A. R. 



Publisher's Note, 



IN the following pages, reference is frequently made to Sauce Espagnole, 
or Spanish sauce. Jules Bohlinger, chef for ten years at the Parker 
House, New York, has kindly furnished the following directions for its 
preparation. 

For one gallon. Mix one pint of raw mirepoix (stew in a saucepan 
two ounces of fat, two carrots, one onion, one sprig of thyme, one bay-leaf, 
six whole peppers, three cloves, and if convenient, a ham bone cut in 
pieces. Add two sprigs of celery, and half a bunch of parsley roots. 
Cook for fifteen minutes, and use when directed in other recipes. If you 
have on hand scraps of baked veal, these may also be added,) with two 
ounces of good fat, (chicken's fat preferable). Mix with the compound 
four ounces of flour, and moisten with one gallon of Bouillon Blanc or 
white broth. (Place in a large stock-urn on a moderate fire, a good 
heavy knuckle of fine white veal, with all the débris, or scraps of meat, 

7 



including bones, remaining in the kitchen, with the exception of game. 
Cover fully with water, adding a handful of salt, and as it comes to a boil, 
be very careful to remove every particle of the scum, and then add two 
large, sound, well-scraped, whole carrots ; one whole, cleaned, sound turnip ; 
one whole, peeled, sound onion ; one well-cleansed parsley root ; three 
thoroughly washed leeks, and a few leaves of cleansed celery. Boil very 
slowly for six hours on the corner of the range; skim off the grease, 
then strain through a wet cloth into a china bowl or stone jar, and put 
in a cool place for general use.) Stir well, and then add, if handy, some 
baked veal and ham bones. Boil for three hours, and then remove the 
fat very carefully, rub the sauce through a very fine sieve, and keep it 
for many purposes in cookery. 

Sauce veloutée, or white broth, is referred to in these pages. It is made 
as described above. 

Bouquet garni is used for flavoring, and is withdrawn before the dish 
is served. It is made by tying together four parsley roots, one branch 
of soup celery, one sprig of thyme, one bay-leaf, and two cloves. Some 
cooks add chives and garlic. 



Preface. 



ARE you fond of boiled beef? Your only answer is a slight grimace. 
Words are superfluous. I can interpret your looks. And you, sir? 
you, madame? you, mademoiselle? you, baby? 

Unanimously you reply, " No," a thousand times no, we do not like 
boiled beef, the bouilli as we call it at home. Yet — oh, the miseries of 
this life — we force ourselves to eat it at least once a week, with a 
resignation that our utmost endeavors fail to render a smiling acquiescence 
to the duty of economy. The pot-au-feu is truly delicious. As soon as 
it appears upon the table, our faces become illumined with expectation. 
We taste it ; how savory it is, how delicately odorous. This is a 
dainty morsel, we exclaim. But suddenly monsieur's face loses its blissful 
expression; madame and mademoiselle suppress a sigh; baby makes a 
grimace; — to each has occurred the thought of the bouilli, the horrible 
bouilli, which is the price to be paid for the golden bouillon that makes 

9 



our eyes shine, brings joy to our olfactories, and whets our appetite. 
Under the oppression of this sudden thought, all joy is banished, and 
the meal is finished in gloom. 

The situation is trying. It is certainly hard that lovers of the 
pot-au-fen who cannot bring themselves to relinquish this savory and 
wholesome dish, should have to pay penalty for the indulgence by eating 
dry, tasteless, stringy meat, as offensive to the eye as to the palate. 
Some solution of the problem was needed. Babet has discovered it. 
Long life to Babet ! 

A celebrated epicure of a somewhat philosophical turn of mind was 
once asked to name the greatest benefactor of the race. Instead of 
naming a Vincent de Paul, or some local functionary, his reply was, " The 
man who discovers a new kind of seasoning." 

This anecdote occurred to my mind as I glanced over the culinary 
notes prepared by Babet's hand for her own use. " Here," I soliloquized, 

" we have a personage of importance who deserves " A sudden 

idea occurred to me. Why not publish these notes, if we can obtain 
Babet's consent? Why not introduce into every household these simple, 
convenient, and economical recipes, invented, discovered, or collected with 
such patient labor by this excellent cook. No sooner said than done. 



TO 



In this book, monsieur, you will find revealed a secret which will 
make you wish to have pot-au-fcu every day of the week. No more gloomy 
looks will greet the appearance of the meat which follows the soup. 
"What is this?" you will exclaim when the cook triumphantly places 
before you a dish whose savory odor proclaims its worth. Madame or 
mademoiselle smile mischievously, being already in the secret, if not the 
real cordons-bleus of the house, and only await your favorable verdict to 
announce that this is but one of many recipes, and that you need not 
eat boiled beef prepared in the same fashion twice in the whole year. 
You cry in joyful amazement, " Truly this Babet is a marvel ! " 

The suit is won. Readers of thfs little book will not, like the Bishop of 
Chalons referred to in the Memories of Saint-Simon, be forced to eat 
boiled beef au naturel for every meal, and be therewith content. All 
vegetables, condiments, and seasonings have been invoked to lend their 
aid in making the dish a delicious one, and after tasting Babet's seasonings, 
you will follow my example in modifying an old proverb to read : 
Seasoning makes the bouilli and the fish. 

Babet deserves the thanks of all who found the pot-au-feu undesirable 
because of its cost, and because of the necessity of eating the insipid 
meat from which it was prepared. Babet has opened a new world to 



school-boys, boarders, soldiers, convalescents, heretofore condemned to 
perpetual boiled beef. Babet has lent material aid to the thrift of small 
households, by showing them how to utilize every scrap of the detested 
beef ; and better yet, to Babet belongs the glory of having banished 
ill-temper from the family board, and contributed to the gaiety and 
laughter so essential to good health and well-being. Could humanitarian 
theories find a better application? 

But, Madame, methinks you are puzzled over the number 99. Why 
not 100 recipes? you ask. Because, most charming of housekeepers, to 
you is reserved the privilege of completing the series by the invention of 
the one hundredth recipe. 

Marguerite de Fontclose. 



12 



HOW TO PREPARE THE POT-AU-FEU, 

AND 

Some Opinions on the Value of Bouillon. 

THE pot-au-feu, or bouillon, is made by boiling meat for a certain 
length of time in water by means of which most of its nutritive 
qualities are extracted. Vegetables are added to give further relish and 
nutriment. 

Bouillon of the best quality can be made from good meat only, 
which should be chosen from the fleshy, juicy part of the thigh. 

Meat from the breast and neck makes a good pot-an-feu of lighter 
quality, and containing more fat, for which reasons it is preferred by 
some. 

In some households, it is the custom to add a beef spleen to the 
bouillon : this is rich and juicy, and gives more nutritive value to the 
dish, but is a trifle heavy for most palates. The spleen itself is not 
eaten, but thrown away. Again, some persons add a piece of lard to 



the soup, should the beef from which it is made be dry or of inferior 
quality. 

The vegetables used are : carrots, parsnips, celery, and turnips ; the 
last is rejected by some cooks, who think that it detracts from the 
clearness of the bouillon, but this is hypercriticism. Vegetables are 
put into the pot only after the soup has been skimmed. 

Three pounds of meat are required to a quart of water. Should 
this amount of liquid be reduced to a third by boiling, we have consomme 
or bouillon consummately perfect, but the meat is done to rags in the 
process, and cannot be utilized as bouilli. To the meat may be added 
a few bones, one of which may be marrow bone if the taste is relished. 
Should delicacy be preferred to richness, the marrow bone must be 
omitted. The meat should be put into cold water, which must be heated 
by slow degrees, in order that it may gradually penetrate the meat, 
softening it and dissolving the non-nutritive portions which rise to the 
top of the liquid as scum. Immersion in hot water would cause contraction 
and hardening of the muscular fibres, and coagulation of the nutritive 
elements, and would prevent the issue of the juices of the meat. The 
process of boiling should be slow ; the soup-pot hermetically sealed. 

Let us take it for granted that these directions have been explicitly 

14 



carried out. The meat has been immersed for half an hour, and the 
infusion is hot, but not yet boiling. We stir up the fire; the scum 
becomes thicker, and we remove it, at the same time adding a little salt 
to the bouillon, putting in the vegetables, and then closing the soup-kettle 
again and allowing the slow ebullition to continue. 

Some cooks add parsley root, a little garlic, an onion into which 
cloves are stuck, and a bay-leaf. This is entirely a matter of taste, 
and no general rule can be given. Certain authorities claim that the 
garlic should be placed within the beef, as is sometimes done with a leg 
of mutton ; some affirm that this vegetable, with its penetrating flavor, 
greatly increases the succulence of the bouillon. For our part, we believe 
that a good bouillon may dispense with all odors except the delicate ones 
peculiar to the ordinary vegetables, and that garlic, onions, and cloves 
are used rather to conceal the absence of the flavor sut generis of the 
bouillon, than to add to its delicacy. 

The same may be said of coloring matters, whether in liquid form 
or in balls or tablets. Good bouillon has a color peculiar to itself, a 
reddish-yellow, which comes from the juice of the meat. Its absence 
indicates too small an amount of meat in proportion to the water used, 
a deficient quality of meat, or a too rapid process of boiling. 

15 



From six to seven hours of slow, continuous boiling are essential to 
the success of the pot-au-feu. 

A peculiarly delicate flavor may be obtained by adding to the beef 
some pieces of raw fowl, or the remains of a cooked fowl, more especially 
the carcass. The same cannot be said of pieces of the leg or shoulder 
of mutton ; this meat imparts an acrid odor, which detracts from the 
perfection of the consommé, and also interferes with its preservation. 

Bouillon should be strained through a colander or a sieve into the 
soup dish, to prevent the entrance of any fragment of meat or vegetable. 
The same precaution is to be observed when bouillon is used in the 
preparation of soup with pâtes d'Italie. 

At one time two learned chemists, Lefèvre and Vincent by name, 
invented an economical bouillon, made from meat which had already served 
once in the preparation of bouillon — from the bouilli, in fact. To every 
pound of the meat they used tv/o quarts of water, three ounces of carrots, 
and a little onion. They let it boil for two hours, and obtained as a 
result a pint and three-quarters of good bouillon. But the bouilli was 
cooked to rags. It is a question whether the economy of the proceeding 
was as great as they claimed, and whether it would not have been better to 
utilize the bouilli in some other fashion, and use fresh meat for the bouillon. 

16 



Another theoretical plan consists in the manufacture of bouillon from 
bones only. The nourishing qualities of the meat would be a missing factor. 

Opinions differ as to the value of bouillon. The English assert that 
it is non-nutritious, and laugh at our fondness for what they call hot 
water. It is not to be gainsaid that bouillon is more of a stimulant 
than of a nutriment properly so called. 

Some Abyssinian tribes, as the Gallas, reject the bouillon, and save 
only the meat. 

Bouillon played a leading part in a conjugal episode which caused 
considerable gossip in the sixteenth century. Catherine de Médicis, then 
in her youth, gave a grand fête, to which every lady invited was to be 
accompanied by a cavalier wearing her colors, and who was chosen by 
the queen herself. 

Madame de Guise was one of the guests. Now, Monsieur de Guise 
was known to be frightfully jealous of a certain Saint-Mégrin, who, as 
luck would have it, was chosen as the cavalière servente of his wife. 
Guise forbade her attendance at the ball, but she broke through his 
commands, alleging that duty to her sovereign superseded her duty to 
her husband. 

The fête lasted until six o'clock in the morning. When the young 

17 



wife returned to her home, her husband appeared at her bedside accompanied 
by a majordomo carrying a bowl of bouillon. " Drink this, madame," 
said the duke, " it will cure you forever of all fat-gue." 

It will be remembered that at this epoch, poison played an important 
rôle in royal kitchens, and in the houses of the great. 

When the duke made his way to the door, adding — " Cries for help 
are in vain, madame, the servants are all away," — the duchess certainly 
believed that her last hour had come. She wept, implored, bade farewell 
to earth — but did not perish. When, at noon, Guise once more entered her 
room, with an innocent smile upon his lips, asking after her health, he 
found her in a pitiable condition of fright, bewilderment, and anguish. 

The duke then said with a gentle severity: 

" Come, madame, be comforted. The bouillon has, as I hoped, been 
of benefit to you, and I owe it thanks for having permitted me this little 
revenge. I had an uncomfortable night, and you an uncomfortable morning. 
We are quits." 

Thus bouillon, most innocent bouillon, was the accomplice in a conjugal 
revenge and a sweet reconciliation. 



18 



99 Practical Recipes 

FOR 

Utilizing Boiled Beef. 



*9 



Boiled Beef à la Parisienne. 

MELT over a slow fire a piece of butter rubbed up with flour; 
chop very fine some parsley, chives, shallot and sweet herb, 
tarragon, garden cress, or corn salad, etc.; add a cup of bouillon, and 
boil for a quarter of an hour ; cut the beef in slices, and put it into 
this sauce, letting it boil five minutes. Squeeze the juice of a lemon 
over all, and serve hot. 



Boiled Beef with Horse-Radish. 

{Alsatian Fashion?) 

H RATE some horse-radish very fine, and put it in a stew-pan with 
bouillon, a piece of butter rubbed up with flour, a dash of vin- 
egar, salt and pepper ; after a quarter of an hour, add the beef cut in 
slices ; let simmer for a few minutes, and serve hot. 



21 



Boiled Bee a la Minute. 

PARBOIL in butter a good handful of finely-chopped shallot, 
until of a golden color ; add a pinch of flour and a half glass of 
bouillon, a little salt and pepper ; let the whole cook for five minutes; 
skim off the fat and pour the sauce over the beef which has been cut 
in slices and arranged in a circle on the dish. Add a dash of vinegar, 
and dust over the whole a little powdered parsley. 



22 



Boiled Beef with Sauce Chasseur. 

SOUSE the beef for at least two days in white wine seasoned with 
pepper, salt, shallot, onions, garlic, thyme, bay-leaves, and other 
condiments. Remove and drain the meat. Put some butter in a 
sauce-pan, with onion, garlic, and a piece of parsley; dust over some 
flour and moisten with the liquid in which the beef has been im- 
mersed. Let it cook a half hour. Put in the piece of meat, and 
cook slowly for another half hour. When about to serve, add a little 
good extract of beef, thickened with a piece of butter rubbed up with 
flour. 



2 3 



Boiled Beef a l'Indienne. 

TAKE two pods of crushed cayenne pepper and a teaspoonful of 
powdered saffron, heat and brown in butter; moisten with 
bouillon or extract of beef diluted with water. Let the sauce boil 
down* When about to serve, thicken with fresh butter, and serve in 
a gravy dish with the boiled beef. 



24 



Boiled Beef with Hash Sauce, 

T)UT into a stewing-pan a half glass of vinegar, a tablespoonful of 
1 chopped mushrooms, a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, the same 
amount of shallot, a pinch of pepper, two cloves, a little thyme, and 
some bay-leaves. Boil down at the back of the stove ; then withdraw 
the thyme, bay-leaves, and cloves, and add two teaspoonfuls of bouillon 
or extract of beef diluted with water, and two spoonfuls of Spanish 
sauce. Cut the beef in slices and let it- cook a quarter of an hour in 
the sauce thus prepared. When about to serve, add chopped gherkin 
and anchovy paste to thicken. 



25 



Boiled Beef with the flavor of Game. 

PUT into a stevving-pan pieces of raw hare or wild rabbit, carcasses 
of partridge or fowl, a little thyme, a bay-leaf, three or four 
onions, and a glass of dry white wine. This mixture should be 
placed over the fire and allowed to steam without adhering to the 
sides of the pan. Moisten with consomme or bouillon, or extract of 
beef diluted with water. Cook for half an hour, keeping the dish 
closely covered. Strain into another stewing-pan, and add the beef 
cut in slices and two or three teaspoonfuls of Spanish sauce. Let it 
boil down and serve hot with fried crusts. 



26 



Boiled Beef with Spinach, 

~T)REPARE some cooked chopped spinach. Cut the beef into 
■^ slices and slightly parboil in butter. Season with salt and 
pepper. Serve on a dish with the spinach, fried crusts, and hard- 
boiled eggs cut in quarters. Add to the spinach just before serving 
a bit of fresh butter and a piece of extract of meat about the size 
of a hazelnut. 



27 



Boiled Beef à la Touranienne, 

TAKE some fine, large, symmetrical potatoes, peel them and scoop 
them out, sprinkle the inside with salt and pepper, and parboil 
in butter until of a golden color. Prepare a forcemeat with a little 
of the beef, some sausage meat, chopped mushroom stems, salt, 
pepper, garlic, and parsley. When this farce is quite smooth, fill the 
potatoes with it and put them in the oven. Make a sauce with 
onions, garlic, a carrot, a bit of parsley ; thicken with flour. When 
the potatoes are half cooked, strain this sauce and pour it over them. 
Add extract of beef, mushrooms, and chopped parsley. . Let it cook 
another half hour, and squeeze the juice of a lemon over it just 
before serving. 



28 



Hashed Beef à la Paysanne. 

/^HOP four large onions very fine and let them cook to a golden 
^ color in butter; when nearly cooked dust over them a tea- 
spoonful of flour and stir until the whole is of a golden color ; 
moisten with bouillon or with diluted extract of meat, and a little 
red wine. Cook until the onions are done, and the sauce boiled 
down. Then put in the cold hashed beef, cook for a quarter of an 
hour, add a dash of vinegar, and a little mustard, and serve. 



29 



Boiled Beef à la Flamande. 

TAKE the beef from the bouillon after three hours' cooking and 
put it in a boiler ; moisten with a little brandy, a glass of white 
wine, and one of bouillon, and dissolve in it a piece of meat extract 
the size of a hazelnut. Take some small cabbages cut in quarters, 
carrots, sausages, and some leaves of lard previously cooked in water 
and carefully drained. Add all these to the sauce, salt and let it 
slowly simmer for two hours, frequently basting the meat. Serve 
very hot. If desired, a calf's foot may be added to the sauce. 



3° 



, Boiled Beef à la Périgourdine, 

pUT into small pieces a little lean ham, an onion and a shallot, and 
^ parboil in butter until of a golden color. Add a glass of Ma- 
deira, some slices of truffles, and a few peppercorns. Boil down to 
half the amount, add two teaspoonfuls of brown Spanish sauce, and 
of beef extract. Boil down again and strain into another stewing-pan. 
Put in your beef cut into thin slices, and cook for a good half hour; 
add chopped or sliced truffles, and serve hot. 



31 



Boiled Beef à la Bordelaise. 

TTASH fine a half dozen shallots, to which add a glass of white 



r— i 



-L -1 wine, pepper and salt, and boil down to half the quantity over 
a brisk fire; add two teaspoonfuls of the brown sauce known as 
"Spanish" sauce, a little extract of beef, an ounce and a half of 
beef marrow melted in a water bath. Stir rapidly over the fire, 
and at the first ebullition withdraw it from the brisk fire and let it 
cook gently for a quarter of an hour. Add your sliced beef for 
ten minutes, and serve with fried crusts. 



C2 



Boiled Beef a la Colbert, 

TTEAT in a stewing-pan a heaping cupful of meat jelly. As soon 
1 as it comes to a boil, remove from the fire and add, constantly 
stirring, four and a half ounces of fresh butter. When the sauce 
is sufficiently thickened, add some extract of beef, a pinch of 
chopped parsley, and the juice of a lemon, and serve in a gravy 
dish with the meat. 



33 



Boiled Beef à la Diplomate. 

PUT into a stewing-pan some butter, minced onions, carrots, pars- 
ley, and mushroom and place on a fire. Add a little flour until 
the sauce boils, then let it simmer for three-quarters of an hour. Add 
an equal quantity of lobster broth, and boil down while constantly 
stirring, until the sauce is smooth and of the proper consistency. Let 
the piece of beef cook for a good half hour in this sauce ; remove it, 
thicken with butter rubbed up with chopped parsley, and serve hot. 
The addition of a teaspoonful of extract of meat will be an im- 
provement. 



34 



Boiled Beef a la Londonnienne. 

T)UT into a stewing-pan some slices of anchovy, capers, and the 
-*- yolks of hard-boiled eggs, all brayed in a mortar until it forms 
a smooth paste. Add pepper, moisten with the bouillon and put in a 
bit of beef extract as large as a hazelnut. Warm, and thicken with 
butter rubbed up with farina. Serve in a gravy dish with the hot 
bouilli on a platter. 



35 



Boiled Beef à la Villeroy, 

T}UT into a stewing-pan two teaspoonfuls of chopped shallot, 
-^ moisten with five or six spoonfuls of vinegar, put the pan 
upon the fire and boil down the mixture. Moisten with bouillon, 
add extract of beef, parsley, thyme, bay-leaves, tarragon, pepper and 
salt. Cook twelve minutes over a slow fire. Add caramel, and 
thicken with butter rubbed up with flour. Cut the beef in slices, 
and let it cook five minutes in this sauce. Serve* hot. 



36 



Boiled Beef a la Béarnaise. 

7)UT into a sauteuse (flat, covered sauce-pan) four teaspoonfuls of 
1 vinegar, a spoonful of chopped shallot, and a small bunch of 
parsley, a'spray of tarragon, and some grains of pepper. Let it boil 
down to half the amount, and take off the fire. Remove the parsley, 
tarragon, and pepper. Add the yolks of three eggs, and stir over the 
fire until of the proper consistency ; then withdraw and add an ounce 
and a half of butter, cut into small pieces, and stir again over a slow 
fire Withdraw it again and add three ounces of butter, a little at a 
time Complete the process by the addition of two teaspoonfuls of 
tarragon-leaves, and serve with the meat. This sauce should be toi- 
erably thick. 



37 



Boiled Beef à la Hussarde. 

MINCE one onion, parboil it with butter, a little garlic, a bay- 
leaf, and an ounce and a half of sliced ham. Moisten with 
bouillon and white wine. Add a small teaspoonful of beef extract, 
a bunch of parsley and tarragon, two or three shallots, a piece of 
celery root, and a few peppercorns. Boil, withdraw from the fire and 
let it stand for a quarter of an hour; then put in the beef cut in 
slices, and cook for five minutes. Thicken with a piece of butter 
rubbed up with flour, and serve. ■ 



33 



Boiled Beef with Tomato Sauce. 

PARBOIL some onions in butter; then add tomatoes from which 
the skins, and if possible the seeds, have been removed, a little 
garlic, and parsley. Let this cook for a good half hour over a slow 
fire ; add a little flour, and- thin with bouillon if necessary. Season 
with salt and pepper ; put in the beef cut in slices of moderate thick- 
ness, and cook for a full quarter of an hour. Put the slices on a 
platter, and cover with the sauce, which is first passed through a 
strainer. 



39 



Boiled Beef à la Crécy. 

T)REPARE a purée of sound, red carrots, strain with butter, 
and add a teaspoonful of cream ; pepper and salt to taste. 
Place it around the beef in a platter. A little extract of beef 
will give additional flavor to the purée. 



40 



Boiled Beef with Artichoke Bottoms. 

PREPARE a forcemeat (farce) with the beef, lard, garlic, parsley, 
bread crumbs moistened with bouillon, salt, pepper, and mush- 
room stems. Cut the leaves of some large French artichokes about 
an inch from the bottom, and in the cavity put the forcemeat. Color 
the artichokes in butter, with garlic, onion, thyme, bay-leaves, and 
shallot ; dust over some flour and brown again. Moisten with 
bouillon and let it cook a good half hour. A quarter of an hour 
before serving, put the heads of your mushrooms in the sauce. 
Serve hot. 



41 



Boiled Beef with Lettuce. 

'"PAKE some fine, firm heads of lettuce, strip off the green leaves, 
■*■ wash and blanch in boiling water and throw them into cold 
water. When cold, squeeze in a cloth to thoroughly dry, and with 
a knife cut off the stalk from below, being careful not to injure the 
heart. Fill with forcemeat made of the beef, some lard, garlic, salt, 
pepper, chopped parsley, fresh bread crumbs soaked in bouillon, and 
one or two eggs. Tie them up and cook without adding water. 



42 



Boiled Beef with Saffron Sauce, 

T) REPARE a sauce with butter, in which put a thimbleful of Indian 
saffron. As soon as the butter begins to brown, add some 
bouillon or extract of beef dissolved in water. When about to serve, 
add a little cayenne pepper and thicken with butter. Serve hot in a 
gravy dish. 



43 



Boiled Beef with Kari Sauce. 

3 OIL two ounces of butter in a stewing-pan with a half teaspoon- 
-*-^ ful of Kari pepper, some white broth, some bouillon or extract 
of beef diluted with water. Boil down, skim off the grease, and keep 
hot in a water bath. When about to serve, add some butter. Serve 
in a gravy dish. Should the Kari pepper not be hot enough, add a 
little cayenne. Kari is kept by all grocers. 



44 



Boiled Beef with Gherkin Sauce. 

HHAKE the beef from the bouillon after five or six hours' cooking. 
■*■ Parboil some onions and chopped shallot, dust with flour and 
slightly moisten with bouillon. Cook for a quarter of an hour ; add 
salt, pepper, and a dash of vinegar ; add parsley and chopped gher- 
kins. Brown with caramel. Serve in a gravy dish, the beef being 
served in a platter on a bed of parsley. 



45 



Boiled Beef with Sauerkraut. 

TAKE the beef from the bouillon after four hours' cooking. 
Have all ready prepared a piece of pickled pork in bouillon and 
three pounds of good sauerkraut, stewed together for two hours and a 
half. Drain the beef before putting it on the platter. Boil down the 
liquid of the sauerkraut, and thicken with a little butter rubbed up 
with flour. Spread it around the beef, with the pickled pork cut 
into slices. 



46 



Boiled Beef à la Lyonnaise. 

IN the water which is to make the bouillon, put not only the beef, 
but a hash made as follows : Lard, sausage meat, garlic, parsley, 
bread crumbs moistened with water in which is dissolved some beef 
extract, a few eggs, salt and pepper. Chop the whole and tie tightly 
in a cabbage leaf. An hour before serving, take out the beef and 
the farce ; let them cool, and then cut in slices of equal size. Roll 
these slices in beaten eggs, and then in bread crumbs, and fry in 
butter. Dust with powdered parsley, and squeeze over all the juice 
of a lemon. 



47 



Boiled Beef a la Languedocienne. 

ELT some butter, and add a little flour, a clove of garlic, parsley, 
salt and pepper, a glass of bouillon, some white veal gravy or 
veal juice, and the juice of a lemon. When the sauce is of a proper 
consistency, add the beef cut in slices, cover closely and let it cook 
for a few minutes ; serve by arranging the meat in a circle on the 
platter (en couronne), and add a little butter to the sauce. 



48 



Boiled Beef à là Provençale. 

P)UT into the stewing-pan a half glassful of olive oil, mushrooms, 
parsley, shallot chopped fine, rocambole (wild garlic), salt, 
pepper, and a lemon cut in quarters; moisten with a little bouillon, 
and cook for half an hour ; then add the beef cut in thin slices ; 
leave it in the sauce for three to five minutes, and serve hot. 



49 



Boiled Beef à la Hollandaise. 

TJLANCH some parsley, and chop it fine; parboil it in butter a 
third of which has been rubbed up with flour ; add a little 
bouillon, a piece of lemon with the peel, salt, pepper, garlic, an onion, 
and a soaked anchovy. Mix thoroughly, and spread over the beef 
which is cut in slices. 



5° 



Boiled Beef à la Viennoise. 

P)ARBOIL two or three sliced onions, two carrots, a small bit of 
■*■ veal cut in cubes, and when the whole is well browned, add a 
glass of good bouillon and let it cook slowly for half an hour. Then 
add a large pinch of finely chopped tarragon, and let the whole infuse 
at the back of the stove, with salt, peppercorns and nutmeg ; strain 
and serve in a gravy dish. 



51 



Boiled Beef à l'Italienne. 

F)ARBOIL in butter until of a golden color two chopped onions; 
■*■ add twice the amount of chopped mushrooms. When the liquid 
of the mushrooms has evaporated, moisten with bouillon and white 
wine ; add a bay-leaf, and parboil for ten minutes over a brisk fire. 
Add three teaspoonfuls of chopped truffles, one of chopped parsley, 
and a pinch of cayenne pepper. Cut the beef in slices and cook it 
in this sauce ; take out the bay-leaf, and serve. 



52 



Boiled Beef with Gasconne Sauce. 

T)UT into a stewing-pan a large glass of Bordeaux wine, and boil 
I down to one-half ; put in another stewing-pan sliced carrots and 
onions, a piece of butter with spices; dust over some flour, and 
moisten with bouillon. Add a bit of beef extract the size of a 
hazelnut. Let it cook for ten minutes, stirring constantly ; add this 
sauce to the cooked wine, and boil down for seven or eight minutes ; 
add your piece of beef for five minutes. Serve hot, adding a bit of 
anchovy paste. 



53 



Boiled Beef a la Champenoise, 

T}UT a quarter of butter in a stevving-pan with parsley, finely 
chopped shallot, pepper, salt, and the juice of a lemon ; cook 
for several minutes, and serve in a gravy dish. 



54 



Boiled Beef a la. Financière. ■ 

T)UT a glassful of "sauce espagnole " in a stevving-pan ; add about a 
x third of a glass of liquid in which a fowl has been stewed, and a 
bit of beef extract as large as a hazelnut, some truffle parings, and a few 
raw mushrooms. Boil down briskly, adding gradually a half glass of 
good dry sauterne, and a few spoonfuls of liquid in which truffles and 
mushrooms have boiled ; cut the beef in slices, and cook it for a few 
minutes in this sauce. Serve hot. 



55 



Boiled Beef genre mode. 

T)ARBOIL in good lard some carrots cut in rounds, two onions, 
^ two cloves of garlic, and a shallot ; sprinkle with flour, and let it 
brown ; moisten with good red wine, and add thyme, bay-leaves, 
pepper, salt, cloves, a bouqtiet garni and a nutmeg. Cook for two 
hours, then add dried mushrooms softened in vinegar water, and a 
teaspoonful of beef extract. After half an hour add the boiled beef, 
cook for another half hour, and serve hot. 



56 



Boiled Beef with Tomatoes. 

^ARBOIL some fine, ripe tomatoes in butter, being careful not to 
let them burn ; add a pinch of flour, two good glassfuls of 
bouillon, salt, pepper, a clove of garlic, an onion, and a sprig of pars- 
lev. After two hours, take out the tomatoes and let the beef cook 
for a few minutes in the sauce ; serve on a flat dish, the tomatoes 
arranged around the beef. Under each tomato put a round piece of 
toast fried in butter. 



57 



Boiled Beef with a Purée of Potatoes, 

TV /TAKE a purée of large, mealy potatoes, with butter and milk. 
Cut the beef in slices of medium thickness, and slightly par- 
boil them in a frying-pan ; add salt and pepper. Spread the slices of 
beef on the potato purée, with pieces of fried crust between, and dust 
powdered parsley over the whole. Serve hot. 



58 



Boiled Beef à la Parmentiere. 

pUT into somewhat thick circular slices some fine potatoes, and 
partially fry them. Withdraw from the fire and slightly parboil 
in butter the slices of beef. Add the fried potatoes, a hash of pars- 
ley, garlic, pepper and salt, and shake over a slow fire for five minutes. 
Serve hot, adding the juice of a lemon. 



59 



Boiled Beef à la Bruxelloise. 

"F)LANCH some Brussels sprouts in boiling salted water. Drain, 
and cook in butter with chopped parsley ; let them cook ten 
minutes, take them out of the pan and parboil in fresh butter which 
has been melted without cooking. Salt and pepper, and serve around 
the beef on a platter. 



60 



Boiled Beef au pain perdu." 

HPAKE somewhat thick slices of bread and dip them in cream or 
milk, then in beaten white and yolks of eggs, and fry in butter 
in a frying-pan. Cut the beef in slices to match the bread, dip it 
in the egg, and fry. Serve on -a platter, and powder with chopped 
parsley. 



6c 



Boiled Beef à la Landaise. 

rPAKE some fine, ripe tomatoes, remove the tops, and scoop out 
^- the inside of each. Chop it with garlic, parsley, lard, and the 
boiled beef of the previous day ; add pepper and salt. Season the 
inside of the tomato with pepper and salt, and fill with the forcemeat. 
Place in the oven, covering each tomato with a bit of lard. When 
two-thirds cooked withdraw, and dust over some bread crumbs mixed 
with chopped parsley. Brown, and serve hot. 



62 



Boiled Beef a la bonne femme. 

N the bottom of a pot put a little lard cut into small bits, some 
onions/a little ham, a pound of veal cut in small squares, two 
carrots cut m circular slices, one or two cloves, two bay-leaves, a sprig 
of thyme, and a clove of garlic ; add two good glassfuls of bouillon, 
and cook for three hours. Then put in the beef just taken out of the 
pot-au-feu. Let it simmer for a quarter of an hour and serve. 



63 



Boiled Beef à la Bourgeoise. 

"OOIL together a pint of bouillon and a pint of good wine, two 
■*-^ bay-leaves, a sprig of thyme, two or three large onions, two 
cloves of garlic, a sprig of tarragon, a little chevril ; add salt, pepper- 
corns, and a little nutmeg ; boil down to the desired amount. Cook 
the slices of beef in the sauce for a few minutes, thicken the sauce 
with a piece of fresh butter, and serve. 



64 



Boiled Beef aux Rocamboles. 

T)EEL five or six rocamboles (little onions) and throw them into 
■*■ boiling water ; when nearly cooked, withdraw and throw into 
cold water. Into a stewing-pan put half a glassful of bouillon, and 
the same amount of good white wine ; add a few teaspoonfuls of 
white broth, salt, and chopped sweet herbs, and let it boil fora quarter 
of an hour. Then add the rocamboles and serve in a gravy dish. 



65 



Boiled Beef with Chestnuts. 

(Swiss Method. ) 

/^HOP the beef with an onion and some chestnuts, and cook in a 
stewing-pan with a little parsley and nutmeg. When about to 
serve, add some currants. 



66 



Boiled Beef Sauté with Onions. 

T^ARBOIL two or three onions in butter over a slow fire. When 
of a good color, add the beef cut in thin slices, a clove of garlic, 
salt and pepper. Shake it in a pan until slightly browned. When 
about to serve, dust with chopped parsley, and squeeze over it the 
juice of a lemon. 



67 



Boiled Beef with Melted Butter, 

pUT your beef in somewhat thick squares, parboil them in a stevv- 
U ing-pan with shallot and chopped onions, dusted over with a 
little flour moistened with bouillon ; add a bouquet garni, and a clove 
of unpeeled garlic. Cook for a quarter of an hour, and strain before 
pouring over the beef, which should have been withdrawn as soon as 
browned. Let the whole cook for half an hour, and then thicken 
the sauce with two yolks of eggs. Dust with chopped parsley, 
squeeze over it the juice of a lemon, and serve. 



68 



Boiled Beef à la Marseillaise. 

f^UT your beef into thin slices. Broil in the oven about a dozen 
^ small onions dusted over with sugar. When of a good color, 
put them in a stewing-pan with a little bouillon, and boil down 
one-half; then moisten with half and half of thick meat sauce and red 
wine. Add the beef, a bouquet garni, a few raw mushrooms, salt, 
pepper, and nutmeg, and in half an hour serve hot. 



6 



Boiled Beef with sauce matelote. 

THIS can be prepared only when the beef remains somewhat firm 
after boiling. It is cut in slices and parboiled in good lard with 
some small onions. When these are of a good golden color, mix in a 
pinch of flour, and pour over all some red wine, so that the meat and 
onions are completely soaked with it. Then add a bit of beef extract 
as large as a hazelnut. Salt and pepper, and let it slowly simmer for 
at least two hours. Spread the slices of beef on a platter, cover with 
the sauce, and serve. 



70 



Beef au gratin. 

T) UB the bottom of a pie dish with a little butter, or better vet with 
*- ^ the fat from a fowl, and dust over with chippings of bread 
crusts. Cut the beef in thin slices, and arrange in circular fashion on 
the dish ; put on the top a piece of butter or fat, parsley chopped very 
fine, salt, pepper, and a teaspoonful of bouillon. Put it for a quarter of 
an hour in the stove and serve hot. 



" T 



Beef with Butter, 

T) APIDLY parboil your sliced beef with butter, in a flat covered 
*■* *■ sauce-pan. On the platter in which you are to serve it, put a 
piece of butter worked up with finely chopped parsley. Salt and 
pepper the slices of beef, arrange them pyramidally on the platter, 
putting on each slice a bit of the parsley and butter as large as a nut. 
Surround the beef with fried potatoes or water-cress. 



72 



Boiled Beef à la Valençoise. 

T)UT into a stewing-pan a half glass of good bouillon, with the same 
amount of gravy, a little sour-orange peel, a piece of butter 
soaked with flour about the size of half an egg, salt and pepper. Mix 
over the fire, and then squeeze in the juice of a sour orange. Serve in 
a gravy dish. 



73 



Boiled Beef à la Sultane. 

"P)UT into a stewing-pan a pint of bouillon and a glass of white wine, 
■^ two slices of lemon, two cloves, a clove of garlic, half a bay-leaf, 
parsley, chives, and an onion. Boil for an hour and a half over a slow 
fire, until sufficiently thick in consistence. Strain, and then add salt, 
pepper, the chopped yolk of a hard-boiled egg, and a pinch of blanched 
chopped parsley. Serve in a gravy dish. 



74 



Boiled Beef à l'Anglaise. 

HPAKE the soft part of fine white bread, moisten with a glass of 
bouillon, and season with pepper ; add a few currants. Let it 
simmer for half an hour, and serve in a gravy dish. 



75 



Hashed Beef en gateau. 

/^HOP the beef to a fine hash, add a little sausage meat, parsley, 
w onion, a little garlic, a piece of bread soaked in bouillon, two or 
three whole eggs, according to the amount of beef, salt and pepper ; 
hash the whole again. Melt a piece of butter in a flat covered sauce- 
pan and put in the hash ; bake for half an hour in the oven. When 
cooked through, serve with a sauce according to taste. 

White of eggs beaten to a froth may be incorporated with the 
hash, and improve it greatly. 



76 



Boiled Beef with a purée of Cabbage. 

TAKE some large, white cabbages and cook them in bouillon, then 
make a purée of them, seasoned with salt and pepper. Make a 
hash of the beef, and season with salt and pepper, In the bottom of 
a sauce-pan put butter and some leaves of lard, and let it melt ; put in 
a layer of the cabbage about an inch thick, then a layer of the minced 
beef, and continue placing them in alternate layers. To the top layer 
of cabbage add a little butter, some sprigs of parsley, and some garlic. 
Cook and serve hot. 



77 



Boiled Beef à la Romaine (cos. lettuce). 

PEEL some large, white romaines, and blanch them in boiling salted 
water. Drain, and cook them with butter. Add beef gravy, or 
extract of beef ; mix with butter just before serving, and arrange in a 
circle around the beef. 



78 



Boiled Beef a la Toulousaine, 

BLANCH some large, mild onions in boiling salted water, drain them 
and scoop out the insides of each. Fill the cavity with force- 
meat made of the boiled beef mixed with lard, garlic, and parsley. 
Butter a dish that stands fire and place on it the onions with the 
opening above. Dust with salt and powdered sugar, cover with 
leaves of lard, and sprinkle with brandy. Add a little meat gravy and 
beef extract. Cook gently in the oven. When the onions are done, 
skim the sauce and serve. 



79 



Boiled Beef à la Soubise. 

/"^OOK some medium-sized onions in boiling water. Drain and strain 
through a sieve ; put a piece of butter in a stewing-pan, add the 
puree and a pinch of flour ; moisten with bouillon. Add beef 
extract. Stir frequently with a spoon, mix in some butter just as 
you are about to serve, and place on the platter around the beef. 



80 



Boiled Beef à la Vosquienne. 

"TV /TAKE a purée of beans, add a bit of beef extract the size of 
a hazelnut, mix with butter rubbed up with flour, and serve on 
a plate around the boiled beef. Garnish with fried crusts. 



Boiled Beef à la Soissons, 

1\ /TAKE a purée of fine, mealy Soissons beans in butter; dust with 
chopped parsley, and serve around the beef. A little extract of 
beef adds to the flavor. 



82 



Boiled Beef au papillotes. 

TAKE the bouilli of the previous day; cut it in slices of equal size 
and parboil slightly and rapidly in butter. Prepare a forcemeat 
with lard or sausage, garlic, parsley, and moistened fresh bread crumbs ; 
add two eggs, salt and pepper. Put a layer of the farce between each 
slice of beef; roll in beaten egg, and then in bread crumbs mixed with 
chopped parsley. Put your beef in oiled paper, folded as tightly as 
possible about it. Cook for a quarter of an hour on a gridiron or in 
the oven, and serve in papillotes (papers). 



83 



Boiled Beef with Endive. 

"TT)LANCH and drain some fine white endives; parboil in butter 
■*-J with onions, garlic, parsley, salt and pepper. When half cooked, 
add the beef cut in slices, and some beef extract. Cook for a quarter 
of an hour, and serve, adding some fresh butter, and dusting with 
powdered parsley. 



84 



Boiled Beef Sausage. 

TAKE a pound of lard, the same amount of lean boiled beef, from 
■*■ which the tendons and nerves have been removed ; mince 
and add chopped parsley and chives, a few spices, salt and pepper, and 
some beef extract dissolved in water. When the whole is well mixed, 
add a few truffles and a little Madeira. Fill some entrails with this 
meat, shaping the sausages as desired. Boil in butter, and serve alone, 
or on a vegetable purée. 



85 



Boiled Beef with Cabbage. 

{Belgian Fashion?) 

"F) OIL, and then let cool, some cabbages cut into quarters; tie them 
■^ with string, and cook them in a pot with some onions, two 
cloves of garlic, a carrot, thyme, and a bay-leaf; sprinkle with bouillon, 
and keep over a slow fire. After three hours, remove from the fire, and 
place on a dish around the beef. Put in some sauce espagnole, and beef 
extract diluted with a little of the liquor in which the cabbages were 
boiled. 



86 



Boiled Beef with Potato Sauce. 

T)EEL the potatoes, and cut in pieces the size of a walnut. Brown 
*• them in butter, add a little flour, brown again, add water or 
bouillon, an onion, garlic, and a bouquet garni. Boil down the sauce, 
and when the potatoes are half cooked add the beef cut into some- 
what thick slices. Finish cooking over a slow fire, baste, and serve. 
This sauce should be rather piquante. Do not use too many potatoes, 
and use only lean beef, not too much cooked. 



87 



Beef à la maître d'hôtel. 

TAKE the beef from the bouillon, and while still hot cut in slices 
and arrange around a platter, and cover with a sauce made as 
follows : Melt a piece of fresh butter over a slow fire, add a little 
flour, parsley, and minced chives, a little nutmeg, a half glass of bouil- 
lon, salt, pepper, onion and garlic, half a bay-leaf, and a sprig of thyme. 
Stir until the sauce is smooth ; add to taste the juice of a lemon, or a 
dash of vinegar or verjuice ; strain, add a little beef extract. Dust 
over it chopped sweet herbs or parsley. 



88 



M 



Boiled Beef à l'Espagnole. 

ELT a piece of butter and some leaves of lard in a sauce-pan, 
1 put in some slices of ham and fragments of lean meat, as game, 
fowl, or veal ; add an onion or two in which are stuck some cloves, 
two carrots cut in bits, a little thyme, a small bay-leaf, salt, pepper, and 
nutmeg. As soon as the meat begins to brown add a little flour, 
moisten with hot bouillon, add a boitqiict garni and beef extract, and 
cook over a slow fire for three or four hours ; skim the grease off, and 
put in the beef to cook for a quarter of an hour if it be sliced, other- 
wise for an hour. Serve hot. 



89 



Beef à la Sainte-Menehould. 

T) UT in a stewing-pan a piece of butter and a little flour, and let the 
-*- butter melt; add gradually a little cream, then put in mush- 
rooms, chives, an onion, garlic, a bouquet garni, a little nutmeg, half a 
bay-leaf, salt and pepper. Boil down to a suitable consistency, strain, 
and cook with the sliced beef for five minutes, adding a little beef 
extract. Dust with finely chopped parsley, and serve hot. 



90 



M 



Beef Croquettes. 

INCE the beef with lard or sausage meat, garlic, parsley, onion, 
pepper and salt, bread crumbs dipped in bouillon or beef extract 
and water ; add two eggs, the whites beaten to a froth. Make into balls 
and roll in beaten white of egg and in flour ; then fry. Do not use 
great heat, or the balls will broil too rapidly and break open. When 
sufficiently browned, arrange them pyramidally on a dish, with fried 
parsley. Serve hot. 



91 



Beef Croquettes. 

{Second Method.) 

PREPARE a hash of your beef, a slice of bacon, sausage meat, 
onion, scallion, garlic, mushroom stems, bread crumbs dipped in 
bouillon, salt, pepper, nutmeg, and two eggs. Mince as fine as possi- 
ble. Shape into balls, rolls, squares, triangles, or any form desired ; 
roll in white of egg, then in flour, and parboil in butter. Dust with 
flour and brown ; add an onion, garlic, parsley, salt and pepper, and one 
or two glasses of bouillon, according to the amount of meat. Cook for 
a good half hour. When about to serve, mix in butter rubbed up 
with flour, and add beef extract. A little of the sauce is put in a deep 
dish, and the croquettes arranged pyramidally in it. 



92 



Bertrade Beef Croquettes. 

(Third Method.) 

~\ /TAKE a purée of good, mealy potatoes; strain and mix with 
^ ^ hashed beef, a little garlic and parsley. Form into balls, roll in 
beaten white of egg and in flour, and then fry in boiling butter. Serve 
hot with fried parsley. 



93 



Hashed Beef. 

MINCE the beef and add three or four chopped onions previously 
parboiled in butter to brown them ; cook in a stewing-pan with 
a piece of butter, a teaspoonful of flour, salt, pepper, nutmeg, and a 
pinch of minced parsley, the whole moistened with a glass of bouillon. 
When the sauce is sufficiently boiled down, add the meat and leave it 
in for five minutes. When about to serve, add a piece of butter, place 
the hash in a dish and garnish with fried crusts. 



94 



Boiled Beef au Restaurant. 

r^UT your beef into slices about half an inch thick, and insert bacon 
^ here and there. Dust over salt, pepper, and a little nutmeg. 
Put in a braising-pan with some leaves of lard, some thin slices of veal, 
and a few mushrooms ; moisten with a glass of bouillon, cover the 
braising-pan, and cook for three-quarters of an hour. Put in a piece 
of butter worked with beef extract, and serve. 



95 



Beef en miroton. 

CUT several onions in slices of medium size ; parboil in butter or 
lard without browning, add a pinch of flour, and then immedi- 
ately some bouillon or beef extract in water, and a half glassful of white 
wine. Cook for three-quarters of an hour. Salt, pepper, parsley, and 
a little nutmeg should have previously been added. When the onions 
are cooked and the sauce is of the proper consistence, add the beef cut 
into thin slices. Let it boil for a quarter of an hour, skim the sauce, 
and serve. The onions should be cooked to a purée. 



96 



Boiled Beef printemps, 

TTASH the beef, or cut in small cubes, and arrange in a deep dish, 
surrounding it with a purée of potatoes cooked in cream or 
milk. Surround the purée with a thick, red tomato sauce. Serve, 
leaving each person to make the mixture on his own plate. 



97 



Boiled Beef à la Mâconnaise, 

PARBOIL in butter some onions and garlic until slightly browned ; 
then add salt, pepper, nutmeg, and bouquet garni, moisten with a 
glassful of bouillon, and cook for a quarter of an hour. Prepare some 
round olives, known as cooking olives, by removing the stones ; cook 
them for five minutes in the sauce, add a bit of meat extract as large 
as a pea, skim, and pour the sauce upon the beef cut in slices, and 
serve in a dish with fried crusts between each piece. Sprinkle over it 
the juice of a lemon, some vinegar, or verjuice, as preferred. 



98 



Boiled Beef à la Milanaise. 

f^UT the beef in somewhat thick slices, and parboil in melted butter;. 
^ season with salt and pepper, roll in grated Parmesan cheese. Dip 
into beaten egg, parboil in bread crumbs and bring it to a golden color 
in butter in a flat, covered sauce-pan. Serve with a garniture of mac- 
aroni à l'Italienne, mixed with a little tomato sauce. 



99 



Boiled Beef with Sausages. 

'"PAKE the fat left from the sausages which have been cooked in the 
oven, and make a roux (brown sauce), to which add a mince of 
parsley, chives, and garlic. Heat in this sauce over a slow fire, the 
slices of beef previously moistened with bouillon, or extract of beef 
dissolved in water. Serve on a platter with the sausages. Add a dash 
of vinegar just before serving. 



100 



Boiled Beef à la Marengo. 

T)ARBOIL in butter in a stewing-pan about thirty small white 
-*- onions. Season with parsley, thyme, tarragon, bay-leaves, and a 
quarter of bacon cut in pieces, a bit of meat extract the size of a 
hazelnut and a pinch of flour, and moisten with bouillon. After cook- 
ing twenty minutes, add tomato sauce, salt and a little cayenne pepper. 
Put in the beef in slices, cook for half an hour in this sauce, skim off 
the fat, and serve. 



IOI 



Boiled Beef with Chicory. 

T)REPARE some chicory cooked in its own juice, seasoned with 
^ extract of beef and butter. Put the boiled beef on a platter, 
surrounding it with the chicory. Garnish with hard-boiled eggs cut in 
quarters, and with fried crusts. 

This dish is good, providing the meat is not too much cooked. 
The eggs and toast can be omitted, or one or the other served. 



I02 



, Portuguese Boiled Beef. 

AKE a hash with the beef, a large onion, lard, garlic, shallot, 
■^■^ parsley, salt and pepper. Cook in a stevving-pan, and add three 
teaspoonfuls of good meat gravy, or extract of meat dissolved in water. 
Cook slowly for half an hour, and serve on a hot platter, surrounded 
with fried eggs, and accompanied by tomato sauce. 



M 



103 



Boiled Beef with Artichokes. 

rPAKE the hearts of the artichokes, cut them in fourths or eighths 
according to their size ; parboil in butter with onions, garlic, and 
parsley. Dust with flour, moisten with bouillon, add extract of beef, 
salt and pepper. When the artichokes are nearly cooked, put in the 
beef cut in thin slices. Cook for ten minutes, add a piece of butter, 
sprinkle with the juice of a lemon, and serve. 



104 



Boiled Beef à la Strasbourg. 

TAKE off the outside leaves of a fine, firm cabbage and blanch it in 
boiling salted water. Prepare a forcemeat with the beef, sau- 
sage meat or lard, onions, garlic, parsley, salt and pepper. Put a layer 
of this between each leaf of the cabbage. Tie it with string and 
parboil in good lard. When slightly browned, add a little bouillon, if 
the cabbage is not sufficiently juicy, and a teaspoonful of beef extract. 
Cook over a slow fire in a closed dish for four hours. A half hour 
before serving, put in a half pound of sausage chipolata (ragoût with 
onions and shallots), and serve on a platter with the sausages. 



X05 



Boiled Beef gros sel. 

rPAKE the bouilli from the bouillon, and serve on a platter 
surrounded with boiled peeled potatoes, the whole upon a bed 
of parsley. Serve salt with it. 



106 



Boiled Beef à la Russe. 

T)LÀNCH in boiling salted water some turnips cut into cubes, with 
^ carrots, pieces of cauliflower, string-beans, and peas ; drain and 
cook in butter without letting them brown. Place the beef on a round 
platter, and place the vegetables in little piles around it, each separated 
by a layer of chopped parsley ; make a tolerably thick gravy with 
bouillon and beef extract, season it with salt and pepper and sprinkle 
over the vegetables. Serve hot. 



107 



COLD DISHES. 



Boiled Beef with Verjuice. 

/^RUSH some unripe grapes, or take prepared verjuice ; put it in a 
gravy dish with salt, pepper, parsley, and chopped scallion. Serve 
with the cold beef which is on a platter garnished with parsley. 



108 



Beef à la Vinaigrette. 

f^UT the beef in thin slices, and put in a salad dish. Cover with 
sliced anchovy, or smoked herring, chevril, parsley, chives, sweet 
herbs, tarragon, and chopped gherkins ; season with pepper, salt, and 
oil. Serve without stirring. 



109 



Boiled Beef à la Mousquetaire, 

~P)UT into a mortar a shallot, cress, chevril, and tarragon, about a 
-*- handful in all. Add a spoonful of meat jelly, pepper, salt, grated 
nutmeg, and a spoonful of mustard. Strain and dilute with two tea- 
spoonfuls of olive oil poured in gradually, while carefully stirring the 
whole. When the sauce is quite smooth, add the juice of a lemon, or 
a dash of vinegar or verjuice. Serve in a gravy dish with the cold 
beef. 



no 



Boiled Beef à la Hongroise. 

TAKE the beef of the previous day, and chop the most lean por- 
tions. Put the hash in pyramid form in a deep dish, garnishing 
the edges with hearts of lettuce. Chop separately the whites and 
yolks of hard-boiled eggs ; chop some sweet herbs, placing the whole 
in little piles around the lettuce hearts, alternating the colors. Around 
the eggs and herbs place sliced gherkins, sliced herring, and some 
capers. Add oil, vinegar, mustard, pepper, and salt, and serve without 
stirring. 



m 



Hashed Beef en pate. 

TAKE a piece of the boiled beef, with some ham and some breast 
of veal, the beef representing three-quarters of the amount. 
Mince as finely as possible ; cut some lard into dice-shaped bits, and 
mix with the hash, adding pepper, salt, spices, parsley, chives, mush- 
rooms, garlic, all minced fine ; a bay-leaf, a sprig of thyme, a small 
glass of brandy, and a half glass of Bordeaux in which is dissolved 
some beef extract. Line a pâté dish with leaves of lard, fill it with 
the hash, put on the cover, cover the seams of the dish with a mix- 
ture of flour and vinegar, put in the oven and leave over night. This 
hash is to be served only when perfectly cold. 



TI2 



Boiled Beef à la Tartare. 

'"PAKE three shallots, a small handful of chevril and tarragon, and 
■*- a chive. Mince fine, and put in a gravy dish with salt, pepper, 
a teaspoonful of vinegar, two of mustard, and three of olive oil, 
stirring constantly. Should the sauce be too sharp, add oil. Serve 
with the cold beef. 



113 



Boiled Beef à l'Allemande. 

'"PAKE garlic, rocambole (a small onion), powdered anchovy, a glass 
•*• of white vinegar, one of good white wine, a half glass of oil, 
and the juice of a lemon or orange ; boil the whole, and let it infuse ; 
when the sauce is cold, add salt and pepper, and serve in a gravy 
dish, with the cold beef sliced on a bed of parsley. 



114 



Boiled Beef à la rémoulade, 

TMLUTE a glassful of mustard. Add a little shallot and ravigote, 
*-J six spoonfuls of oil, three of vinegar, salt and pepper. Put in 
two yolks of raw eggs and mix, stirring it until the sauce is smooth 
and sufficiently thick. Serve in a gravy dish with the cold beef cut in 
slices and laid on a bed of parsley. 



115 



Boiled Beef with Potato Salad. 

'""PHIS is prepared like the beef au vinaigrette (90), but with the 
addition of sliced boiled potatoes, cooked with care, so that 
they will not fall to pieces under the knife. 



116 



Boiled Beef à la Japonaise. 

COOK some potatoes in bouillon. Cut them in slices, season with 
salt, pepper, vinegar, and olive oil ; pour over them a half glass 
of Bordeaux. Cut the beef in dice and put in the salad bowl, sur- 
rounding it with the potatoes. Cover the whole with round bits of 
truffle. Let it stand two hours and serve cold. 



117 



Boiled Beef à la Cronstâdt. 

COOK separately in bouillon, peas, string-beans, cauliflower, turnips, 
and carrots cut into dice. Cut the beef in dice of the same 
size, and put in a salad bowl. Prepare a piquante and spiced mayon- 
naise of medium consistence, and spread over the meat. On this 
mayonnaise outline a five-pointed star with the different vegetables ; 
border the edges of the star points with slices of anchovy powdered 
with chopped parsley. Garnish with truffles cut in little rounds, and 
serve without stirring. 



118 



King Henry the Fourth's Recipe for Stewed 

Chicken. 

(The Poule-au-potï) 

THE poule-au-pot, which good King Henry desired to have form 
the Sunday dinner of every peasant in the land, is a succulent 
dish too much neglected in these days, when dainty living is tending 
to replace the rustic cooking of the good old days. 

But as the mere suggestion of a dish usually arouses a desire to 
taste it, we will give the recipe for the famous chicken, which, in 
spite of its apparent simplicity, is a choice morsel. 

Get a good, fat hen, and buy it alive if possible, or at least, not 
drawn. Put aside the liver, gizzard, heart, lungs, head, neck, and 
wings, and any eggs which it may contain. Bone the head, neck, and 
wings, and mince the whole with ham, lard, bread crumbs dipped in 
milk, salt, pepper, spices, sweet herbs, parsley, and garlic, for we must 
remember that Henry the Fourth was a Béarnais, and that garlic is 

found in all the cooking of that part of the country. 

ng 



When the hash is ready, add the yolks of eggs and put the 
stuffing into the hen. (Chestnuts and slices of truffle may also be 
put in the stuffing, but are not in the ancient, classic recipe.) Sew 
the opening, tie with string, and cook as follows : 

All is in readiness for the pot-au-feu. Skim it, add the vege- 
tables, and put in the chicken, which you allow to cook gently. 
Withdraw it before the flesh loosens from the bones, which would 
occur very quickly in the case of a young bird. From time to time 
lift it on a skimmer and prick with a knife, to ascertain the degree 
to which it has cooked. 

Prepare upon a platter a bed of parsley, or, better yet, of cçess. 
Take the hen from the pot, remove the strings, and lay it on the 
platter, sprinkling fine salt over it. It should be eaten very hot. 
The stuffing should be firm enough to cut in slices. The bouillon 
obtained by this process is exquisite, and the fowl loses none of its 
flavor. Taste it, and become convinced of King Henry the Fourth's 
solicitude for the well-being of the peasants of France. 



120 



FAMILY MENUS 



FOR 



SELECT BUT NOT LUXURIOUS DINNERS. 



Soupe Croûte au pot. 

Boiled Beef, sauce Landaise. 

Roast Leg of Mutton. 

Salad. 

Potato Croquettes. 

Beignets of Pineapples (preserved). 

Dessert. 



Soup with pates d'Italie. 

Boiled Beef, Madeira sauce. 

Roast Fowl. 

Salad. 

Artichokes a la Barigoule. 

Rice Beignets. 

Dessert. 



Vermicelli Soup. 

Beef, Lyonnaise sauce. 

Roast Veal. 

Chicory Salad. 

Cauliflower, white sauce. 

Fried Cream. 

Dessert. 

121 



Crécy Soup, 

Boiled Beef en Gateau. 

Cold Roast Pork with Meat Jelly. 

Salad. 

Peas, or String Beans. 

Zambayon. * 

Dessert. 



CHRISTMAS DINNER. 



Tapioca Soup. 

Poule-au-pot. 

Beef with Olives. 

Roast Goose. 

Celery, raw, and cooked in beef gravy. 

Almond Cream, Apple Meringues. 

Cheese, Apples, Preserves. 



NEW-YEAR'S DINNER. 

Julienne Soup. 

Boiled Beef a la Perigueux. 

Roast Fowl, with Cress. 

Russian Salad. 

Canned Peas, cooked with butter and sugar. 

Plum-Pudding. 

Cheese, Apples and Oranges, Preserves. 



* For recipe for Zambayon and other sweet dishes see volume entitled "99 Sweet Dishes, 



UJhat Q ne C an D° with a Chafing-Qish. 

A GUIDE FOR AMATEUR COOKS. 
By MÏSS H. L. SAWTELLE. 



" No one who has not tried it knows how much 
satisfaction to the palate can be derived at small cost 
from the use of a chafing-dish." — Ar?ny and Navy 
Journal. 

" ' What One Can Do with a Chafing-Dish ' is a 
timely and attractive manual for amateurs in the art 
of cooking. The chafing-dish has become a recog- 
nized form of gift to a gentleman, or to a young 
couple, and to a bachelor in lodgings or a bride in a 
' flat ' it opens an infinite source of amusement, and 
possibility of economy. Not only can Welsh rare- 
bits and oysters and eggs in every variety be cooked 
in it, but stews and every kind of dishes of game and 
fish. The book is published in an attractive form." 
— Worcester Gazette. 

"A magician's trick cabinet is not a more wonder- 
ful contrivance than is the ever-ready and compact 
little chafing-dish in the hands of an expert. For a 
bachelor, or bride, or a young couple the chafing-dish 
with H. L. S.'s book as a guide will take a very 
prominent place in the economy of the possess- 
ors of the two institutions." — Newark Evening' 
News. 



" Until the doubter has read and tested by actual- 
experience he (or she) can have no idea of the num- 
ber and variety of dainty dishes that may be pre- 
pared with the aid of this useful appliance." — New- 
ark Daily Advertiser. 

"The attractive ' get-up ' of the book at once catches 
the eye, and as the leaves are turned, one is amazed at 
the number and variety of dishes which may be con- 
cocted within the limited compass of a ' chafing-dish.' 
Experimenters in ' light housekeeping ' will find the 
book just the one they have been in search of for so 
many years." — Publishers' 1 Weekly, New York. 

" Quite a unique little cook book offers itself under 
thecaption: ' What one can do with a Chafing-Dish.' 
To those whose limited experience with this conven- 
ient little adjunct of the table suggests an oyster stew, 
scrambled eggs, or a Welsh rarebit, and then comes to 
a halt, we advise a study of the pages. To find that 
the deliciius Lobster Newburg, Salmis of game, and 
even ' beignets de pommes,' as well as many other 
dishes equally dainty, may be prepared by this sim- 
ple means, invites to flats and single blessedness, and 
bids deSance to Bridget and'her range. " — Critic, N. Y. 



Oblong 16mo, Price 75 cents. 

For sale by all Booksellers, or sent, post-paid, on receipt of th2 price by the Publisher, 
JOHN IRELAND, 1199 Broadway, New York. 




I .s l 9 S 2 

«H 5 O ft? ® 

_» ci « J; © a 
© fj .22 « « 

» « g *i « * 
s-t 5 ^ ee a © 

h- S3 * £ ■" * 

* - S S S 1 

S ï u ? O h 
^ « .2 Ûj •" D. 

„ a -2 © « -d 

h +» ^ +3 Z ci 

<n © hi "S «• •!? 

«" <« o P aj u 

fia* s* s 

*J C.CJJ S O XI 

c3.S ^«S 
T.J3 £ £* *= 

» 2 © G ci "d 

BC -S © M » 

© ,23 25 -^ G 

p P,+j ci "S 



S ■ 

* !$ 

% m 
M -3 

Xi >> 
J" '© 



a55 



3 S 

eg. 
"§2 

ci © 
XI * 



.2 




i 


o 


O 


-a 


CJ 


fS 


p=* 


DO 




^ 


H" 
S 


xi 




? 

ci 


'S 


o 


EB 


« 


A 


o* 


«d 


-tj 





ta 



s © 

3 



* "g s © 

• *ë ■ 

2-§ ? S, 

Ci £ «3 



T3 >V 

a. 
o 

3 

o 



o 
< 

ft» 

o 

« 

w 



5*. 

CO* 



O W 

o ST 



S* 

o 

e 



pi 



d 



ffi " ,B 
^ O çu 






cr a 
& 

o ° 3* 

m ~ S* 
5- s* rt ' 

l-l »-. 

fU r+ 3 

«3 5t ft 



*3 


P 








W 


8 


'I 





o 




c+ 


CD 


r 


O 




cr 

p 


S 
^ 


< 

2? 2! 




c 
cr 


fD O 




t—^ 


% 3 


n 


O 






"H. 


r 

cr 


C/) 


C/) 


n 
p 


£> 


•-» 


<- 


c 


v- 


N* • 


p 




O 


►"{ 




GO 


G 





CO 




CD 




CO 


on 


CO 





CO 


TC 




^=^ 7 


O 


^—^ -0 


CJI 


c 


CO 


=^= i~ : 


00 


r> 


*>J 


.IB 




n 


O) 


> 

T5 


o> 


-< 


10 


^^ 


-*• 


^^ = 



