■^'^■^m 



CORNELL UNIVERSITY LIBRARY 




924 085 803 793 



ALBERT R. MANN LIBRARY 
Cornell University 

Gift of 
Thomas Bass 








/-^l ;^ - 


tr^^^^ 






From Home Bakings, by Edna Evans 
San Francisco. 1912. 






COPYR IGHTED 

AND 



Published By DR.J.C.AYER^CO.,Lowell,Mass 




AVER'S CHERRY PECTORAL 

Leads all remedies for the cure of Colds, Coughs, Asthma, Bronchitis, 
Croup, Sore Throat, and Whooping Cough. If taken 
in season, it arrests the progress of Consumption ; and 
even in the later stages, it relieves the more distressing 
symptoms. To remove hoarseness and give flexibility 
I and strength to the vocal organs, Ayer's Cherry Pecto- 
ral is favored by singers, actors, preachers, teachers, 
and public speakers. It is pleasant to the taste, pro- 
motes expectoration, soothes the inflamed membrane, 
and induces repose. Ko household should be without 
Ayer's Cherry Pectoral. Its prompt use has saved in- 
numerable lives. It is in every sense An Emergency 
Medicine. 

AYER'S SARSAPARILLA 

Is everywhere known as the Superior Blood-purifler. It is superior 
in its combination of the best vegetable tonic - alteratives — 
superior in strength, purity, and proportion, and superior in the 
thoroughness with which it expels from the blood all trace 
of acid, poison, or impurity. For Scrofula and Scrofulous Dis- 
eases, including Catarrh and Consumption, Ayer's Sarsaparilla 
is the specific ; also for Boils, Sores, Kidney Diseases, and 
Rheumatism. Being the best Spring Medicine, it removes that 
tired feeling, and makes the,we&,k strong. For. nearly half a 
century this standard blood medicine has been everywhere 
recommended by leading physicians. It has cured others and 
will cure you. 

AYER'S HAIR VIGOR 

Removes Dandruff, heals Itching Humors in the Scalp, and supplies 
nourishment and vitality to the hair-roots. It restores the 
color of youth to hair which has faded or become gray ; it pre- 
vents the hair from falling out, promotes a new and natural 
growth, and is pronounced by all who use it to be the best and 
most economical hair-dressing ever prepared. Ayer's Hair 
Vigor is indispensable to all who have a due regard for their 
' personal appearance. No other preparation of the kind has 
maintained such a lasting and general popularity. 

AYER'S CATHARTIC PILLS 

Are the best and most popular as a remedy for Constipation, Dys- 
pepsia, Bilious Attacks, Sick Headache, Piles, and all 
derangements of the stomach, liver, and bowels. They 
cleanse the intestines of all effete and irritating sub- 
stances, and are recommended by the Profession for 
family and general use. Every dose effective. 

Prepared by Dr. J. C. AITEB & CO., I.owell, Mass., XT. S. A. 






Ayer's Preserve Book. ^"^^ 

li^2> 

Shall we buy our canned fruits, preserves, jellies, catsups, and picldes, or prepare 
them ourselves ? This is a question which the average houselieeper may answer with- 
out hesitation, when she finds that by good management during the fruit season, she 
can prepare at home a store of better things tlian she can buy ; and the woman who is 
slvilled in the art of canning, preserving, and jelly-malcing is tlie envy of houselceepers. 
In order tliat all may Icnow the latest and best methods of preparing fruit, Ayeb'3 
Preserve Book has been written expressly for us by a well-known housekeeper and 
authority on culinary matters. 



CANNING AND PRESERVING. 



Since\ the introduction of canned goods, 
and the use of glass jars with air-tiglit 
covers, the old-fashioned preserves are 
seldom seen, and stone jars are relegated to 
some other purpose. Tin cans are used at 
canning factories, but seldom by house- 
keepers. All kinds of fruit, whether pre- 
pared with much or little sugar, or in sweet 
or sour pickle, are now sealed in glass jars, 
and the term "canning" is applied some- 
what Indiscriminately. Generally speaking, 
"preserving" means the cooking of fruits in 
an equal weight of sugar, and long enough 
for the fruit to keep without being air-tight ; 
while "canning" may be done with little or 
no sugar, and with just enough coolcing to 
thoroughly heat the fruit, but the air must 
be excluded. The preparation of the fruit 
for these two forms is similar, and the same 
general directions will apply to each process. 

Tlie first step in this business is to pro- 
vide the necessary utensils, and the list 
given here will be equally useful in either 
branch of the work, preserving, pickling, or 
jelly-making. 

Needful Articles. 

These are, granite or poroelain-Iined ket- 
tles, or stew-pans, with bales, or liandles, 
and lips, for convenience in pouring. They 
should be broad and shallow, that consider- 
able surface may be exposed to the heat. 
It is well to have one holding six or eight 
quarts ; but, for nearly all purposes, the two- 
quart size is large enough; and if you can 
afford to have several, they will be very 
convenient. 



Of large bowls and platters, every house- 
keeper usually has a sufficient number ; but 
there are many women who never think to 
provide themselves with a small, sharp- 
pointed knife, for paring. One made of the 
best steel, if kept sliarp and bright, answers 
very well; but the better way is to have 
a silver-plated fruit-knife ground down to 
a fine edge, and kept expressly for fruit- 
paring. 

Other needful articles are, wooden spoons, 
some of them with slots, or perforations, 
a wire spoon, silver spoons large and small, 
a silver nut-pick, or skewer, scales for 
weighing, a hair sieve, a bright ti>i strainer, 
like a squash-strainer, but with finer meshes, 
a colander, a wooden masher, and a plenti- 
ful supply of cheese-cloth, both fine and 
coarse, and find cotton -and -wool flannel. 
Provide yourself witli two sizes of jelly- 
tumblers, and the best glass jars witli perfect 
fitting covers, and an extra supply of rubbers. 
The pint-size jar is the best for nearly every- 
thing, but be careful to select those which 
have large tops. A few, holding two quarts, 
will be useful for large whole fruit. A large- 
mouthed funnel will help greatly in filling 
the jars. 

Special Preparation. 

Tlie special preparation which each fruit 
needs, is given under eacli recipe, and the 
only directions equally applicable to every 
fruit, are these: Observe the utmost cleanli- 
ness in every part of the work, both of the 
hands, the utensils, and the fruit. Avoid 
anything which will tend to change the color 



AVER'S SARSAPAKIIiIiA cures others, will cure yau. 



FOR PUKIFYING THE BLOOD. 



PURE BLOOD 

Is as necessary to perlect healtli as sunshine 
is essential to warmtli and liglit. Witli pure 
blood to supply and nourish the body, energy, 



AYER'S _ 

m 

HAS CURED OTHERS 
WILL CURE YOU - 




ambition, enthusiasm, a clear skin, a ruddy 
cheek, a bright eye, the flush of youth, and 
the courage for the duties of each day are 
always present. There can be no health if 
the blood is impure. 

The common feature of impurity iu the 
blood, the one most to be dreaded, is scrofu- 
la. This is one of the most terrible of all 
diseases, and, while it may not fully develop 
in the person with whom it originates, its 
ravages are appalling when transmitted to 
posterity. 

Scrofula 
usually presents itself in the form of angry 
and inflamed swellings, virulent sores, loath- 
some ulcers, and painful tumors ; it causes 
emaciation, renders life a burden, and, in 
a majority of cases, unless properly treated, 
ends in consumption. The only proper treat- 
ment for scrofula is to thoroughly purify 
and invigorate the blood, eradicate every 
trace of poison from the system, and re- 
store to it the element that healthfully re- 
pairs the constant and natural waste of the 
tissues. This treatment can be best accom- 
plished by the use of Ayer's Sarsaparilla. 
This medicine acts immediately upon the 
blood, purifying, vitalizing, and enriching it, 
as no other remedy can. It expels from the 



life-current all poisonous and useless mat- 
ter, restores healthful action to tissues, 
nerves, organs, and glands, and in all that 
goes to invigorate and build up the system 
weakened by disease and pain, Ayer's Sar- 
saparilla is superior to all pother remedies. 
It is superior because it has for its base, 
the true Honduras Sarsaparilla root; be- 
cause the other ingredients which enter 
into its composition are of the highest grade 
procurable ; and because each ingredient is 
known to have a specific value iu the treat- 
ment of scrofula. It IS superior In com- 
bination, proportion, appearance, taste, and 
effect. It has cured others and will cure you. 

" For many years I was laid up with scrof- 
ul!i, no treatment being of any benefit. At 
length I was recommended to give Ayer's 
Sarsaparilla a trial. I did so, and after 
using about a dozen bottles, was restored to 
perfect health."— James Petsy, Mine Boss, 
Breckenridge Coal Co., (Lim.), Victoria, Ky. 

"For several montlis I was troubled with 
scrofulous eruptions over the whole body. 
My appetite was poor, and my system so 
prostrated that I was 

Unable to Work. 

After trying a variety of remedies in vain, 
I resolved to take A,yer's Sarsaparilla, and 
with such good effect that less than two 
bottles removed the scrofulous eruptions and 
restored my health and strength. The rapid- ' 
ity of the cure astonished me, as I expected 
the process to be tedious." — Frederico M. 
Fernandez, Villa Nova de Gaya, Portugal. 

"I was, for a long time, afdicted with 
scrofulous running sores, which at last be- 
came so bad, the doctors advised amputating 
one of my legs to save my life. I began . 
taking Ayer's Sarsaparilla and soon saw an 
improvement. After using about two dozen 
bottles, the sores were healed. I continued 
to take a few bottles each year, for my 
blood, and am no longer troubled with sores. 
I have tried other reputed blood-puriflers, 
but none does so much good as Ayer's Sar- 
saparilla."—!). A. Eobinson, Neal, Kans. 

" When a boy I was troujjled witli a blood 
disease which manifested itself in sores on > 
the legs. Ayer's Sarsaparilla being recom- 
mended, I took a number of bottles, and 
was cured. I have never had a recurrence 
of the complaint."— J. C. Tliompson, Lowell, 
Mass. 



AYER'S HAIR VIGOR — best for the Toilet. 



ATER'S PRESERVE BOOK. 



3 



or lessen the flavor of the fruit, such as tin, 
iron, or brass utensils, or any undue exposure 
of the pared fruit to the air. Use only sound 
fruit, and as soon after gathering as possible. 
Use pure granulated sugar, free from any 
bluish tinge, the purest spie'es", a,nd the best 
cider vinegar. 

Clean and seald the jars and their covers. 
Even if cleansed when put away, tliey 
' should be scalded just before using. See 
tliat each one is in perfect' condition, and 
that the rubbers fit perfectly. Use new 
rubbers every season. Stand the jars in a 
shallow pan of water on the back of the 
range, where the water will keep hot. It 
the fruit is to be cooked in water first, have 
a pan of water on boiling. Pare only enough 
to make one pound or fill one jar, then 
weigh, if necessary, and drop at once into 
the boiling water. Go on with the paring, 
covering the pared fruit with an old wet 
napliiu to exclude the air, at the same time 
watching the fruit in tlie pan. Take out 
each piece as soon as soft, and put it on 
a large plate. Do not pile one piece on 
another, for the lower ones would be crushed. 
When all the fruit is cooked, strain this 
water and use it for the syrup. In that 
way, none of the flavor is lost. Boil the 
syrup and remove the scum. If the fruit is 
to be cooked again in the syrup, put it in 
carefully and boil according to directions in 
that special recipe. When ready to fill tlie 
jars, see that the water in the pan is hot 
and the jars hot. Draw the preserving ket- 
tle close to the pan of jars, put the^ funnel 
in the jar, and with a silver nut-pick, or 
spoon, or fork, or wire spoon, put each piece 
in the jai's, so that the best part of it will 
be next to the glass.' Fruit, like pears and 
peaches cut in halves, must be arranged so 
the syrup will fill Mw hollow places. 

Small Fruit and Berries 

should be taken up with a skimmer. Fill 
tlie jars nearly full, then pour in the syrup 
witli a teacup. Eun a silver knife or spoon- 
handle round the inside and up and down 
the jar, to let any bubbles of air escape ; 
then wipe off the top, put on the rul)ber, fill 
to overflowing with boiling syrup, put on the 
cap and screw it down, being careful to see 
that the rubber Ijears evenly on tlie glass. 
Bemove from the water and invert on the 
table. As the jars -cool, the caps will hear 



screwing down a trifle. The next morning 
examine the Jars to see if there be leak" 
age. If the covers are tight, label the Jars 
with name and date, wrap each in paper, 
and put away in a cool, dry, dark place. 
Examine again after a week, an^ if the 
covers are d^ tight, scald, and use at once, 
or boil down for marmalade. A little mould 
or foam on the top is not always an un- 
favorable indication, if the cover is tight. 

Canned Baked-Apple Sauce. 

Fill a large bean-pot with sour apples, 
pared, quartered, and cored, Sprinkle over 
them about half a cup of sugar for a quart of 
apples. Add one cup of water, cover close- 
ly, and bake several hours in a moderate 
oven. When red, take out the apple and 
put it into hot glass jars, drain off the syrup 
and let it boil up once, then fill the jars with 
syrup, and seal. Hard winter pears are 
good, prepared In the same way. 

Preserved Apples. 

For six pounds of apples, use three pounds 
'of granulated sugar. Pare, quarter, and 
core the apples, and boil the skins in water 
enough to cover. Sprinkle the sugar over 
the apples dry, and let them stand until the 
sugar is dissolved. Then strain the water 
from the skins and pour it boiling hot over 
the apples. Let them stand until cold, then 
heat and pour the water again over the 
apples to harden' them. Do this several 
times, and then put all over the fire, add 
the grated rind and juice of one lemon, or 
orange, and cook slowly until the apple 
seems clear. 

Barberry Sauce with Sweet Apple. 

Half a pecic of barberries, two quarts of 
molasses, one peck of sweet apples. Pick 
over tlie barberries, to remove the stems 
and leaves ; wash them, and put on to boll . 
with water eijough to float them. Add the 
molasses, and cook until the berries are 
tender. Wliile these are cooking, pare, quar- 
ter, and core the apples. Skim out the bar- 
berries; and cook the apples in the syrup, as 
many as can be cooked conveniently. ,When 
tender, put them into the jar with the ber- 
ries, and boil the syrup down until it is thick. 
Pour it over the fruit, 'and the next morning 
heat all togetlier again, and put away in a 
large stone jar. Scald it occasionally, and 
it will keep without sealing. 



AYEK'8 PIIjLS— every dose effective. 



TO AID DIGESTION. 




THE BEST COOK 

"Will fail to furmsli uS' with an acceptable 
dish il we haye no appetite ; but with a good 
appetite, any dish is welcome. "Hunger is 
the cook's best 
friend." All who 
suffer from loss of 
appetite or any de- 
rangement of the 
digestive organs, 
find relief, and a 
radical, permanent 
cure in the use of 
Ayer's Sarsapa- 
rilla. Wilh pure 
blood to move 
the machinery of 
life, evej-y fimd- 
tion of the body gains in tone, strength, 
and energy, the alimentary canal being the 
first to experience the benefit. 

"My wife suffered severely, for a long 
time, from dyspepsia. Being induced to try 
Ayer's Sarsaparilla for the complaint, she_ 
took ten bottles, and now her 

Digestion is Excellent, 

and she can eat a good meal, something 
she had not done before for years." — G. W. 
Kobinett, P. M., Flag Pond, Va. 

" During the summer and fall of 1887 I 
was troubled very seriously with dyspepsia. 
Knowing the high standing of your medi- 
cines, I decided to try what Ayer's Sarsapa^ 
rilla could do for me. It has helped me 
wonderfully. — J. E. Williams, Delana, III. 

" For several years I was a great sufferer 
from dyspepsia. I tried all kinds of reme- 
dies, without avail, until, by the advice of a 
friend, I began to take Ayer's Sarsaparilla 
and Ayer's Pills. I soon felt the benefit of 
this treatment. In three months I was com- 
pletely cured of the complaint that afflicted 
me so long, and from which I had but little 
hopes of recovery."— Mrs. Mary Rielle, Lit- 
tle Canada, Ware, Mass. • 

" Last spring, my little girl, five years old, 
was sick. She could eat nothing, and was 
all run down. I commenced giving Ayer's 
Sarsaparilla, and in three days she began to 
improve. We noticed that she gained stead- 
ily, and by the time she had taken one bottle 
she was as well as ever. I recommend 
Ayer's Sarsaparilla as the best of blood- 
purifiers."— E. S. Gage, Waterloo, N. H. 



" I can say a good word for Ayer's Sarsa- 
parilla. Some two years ago I was suffering 
from loss of appetite and debility, the result 
of liver disease. After having tried various 
remedies and several physicians, without' 
receiving any benefit, I was induced to take 
Ayer's . Sarsaparilla. The first bottle pro- 
duced a marked change, and the second and 
third accomplished so much that I feel like 

A New Man. 

I have, since that time, taken about one 
bottle every year, and had no recurrence 
of the trouble."— William E. Way, East 
Lempster, N. H. 

" For a longtime I was afflicted with dys- 
pepsia, having very little appetite and being 
distressed by nearly everything I ate. A 
druggist recommended a trial of Ayer's Sar- 
saparilla, of which I am now taking my 
fourth bottle. The medicine helped me at 
once, and has continued to benefit me. I 
can honestly recommend Ayer's 'Sarsaparilla 
as a great remedy for indigestion."— Charles 
G. Maxter, Farmington, Maine. 

"About a year agQ I was greatly troubled 
with Indigestion, and suffered fronj head- 
ache, and terrible pains in my stomach. I 
consulted a physician, who prescribed vari- 
ous remedies, but all to no purpose. My 
afflictions seemed to multiply. I became 
worse instead of better, and was compelled 
to give up work. A friend finally advised 
me to try Ayer's Sarsaparilla. I purchased 
a bottle, took it according to directions, and 
soon had the satisfaction of knowing that 
my health was improving. After takiiig 
two bottles of this medicine, I was able to 
resume work. My 

Appetite Returned, 

my food digested well, I was free from head- 
ache, and to-day I am tvell and strong as 
ever."— Pierre Dub^, Holyoke, Mass. 

"Aliouta year ago, after carrying on my 
business of dressmaking for some years, I 
found myself in failing health. I suffered 
indescribably from, stomach trouble, blood 
disorder, and various weaknesses, and al- 
most despaired of relief. Thinking Ayer's 
Sarsaparilla might possibly benefit me, I be- 
gan taking it, and am pleased to state that 
a few bottles wrought an entire change in 
my condition. My health has been restored 
by its use.7— Mary A. Garland, 1407 Michi- 
gan ave., Chicago, 111. 



AYER'S SARSAPAKILLA— the best Spring Medicine; 



AYER'S PEESERVE BOOK. 



Canned Blackberries. 

Allow one cup o£ sugar and one-half cup 
of water.to each quart of blackberries. Boil 
and skim the syrup, then add the berries, as 
many as will cover the surface, cook slowly 
ten minutes ; then skim them out, and add 
others until all are cooked. Put all back 
into the kettle, let them boil up once, then 
pour quickly into the jars, and seal imme- 
diately. 

Canned Blueberries. 

Pick ovef and wash the berries, stew them 
in their own juice with, perhaps, a little 
water at first, to keep tlie lower ones from 
sticking. When all are swollen and well 
cooked, turn them at once into the hot jars, 
and seal. They will keep without sugar, 
and are nice for pies. If preferred sweet, 
add half a cup of sugar to a quart of berries. 
Swampberries will require a cupful of sugar 
to a quart. 

Canned Cherries. 

< Pick over tlie cherries caref\illy, to make 
sure there are no wormy ones. Allow one 
cup of sugar to each jar of fruit. Put the 
cherries and sugar in layers in the jars until 
nearly full. Arrange the jars in a boiler, 
with straw or sticks in the bottom. Put in 
water enough to come nearly to the top of 
the jars. Cover the jars, but do not put on 
the rubbers. Let the water boil until the 
sugar in the jars has melted and formed a 
clear syrup. Meanwhile, have more syrup 
boiling in another pan,, and when the fruit is 
ready, take out the jars, one at a time, fill 
with this syrup, and seal quickly. 

Preserved Cherries. 

Stone the cherries, saving all the juice. 
Weigh, and to each pound allow three-quar- 
ters of a pound of sugar, unless the cherries 
are very sour, when a pound will be required. 
Put the chen-ies into the preserving kettle, 
covering with the sugar, and stand aside for 
three or four hours. Then bring to a boil, 
skim, and simmer till the cherries are clear. 
Pour into the jars, and seal. 

Currants and Berries Canned 
without Cooking. 

Allow one quart of granulated sugar to 
one of fruit. Mash them together, a few at 
a time, taking care that evei-y berry is 
mashed, or they will not keep. Fill the jars 
to overflowing, shaking down each layer 



firmly; screw the covers 'on tightly as pos- 
sible. They will keep indefinitely. Currants 
prepared in this way are delicious eaten 
with meat, and the seeds are not hardened 
as in stewed currants. 

Crape Preserve. 

Pick over and wash the grapes. Slip the 
pulp from the skin, cook the skins in water 
to cover, in one kettle, and the pulp in its 
own juice in another, until soft and free 
from seeds. Then rub the pulp through a 
hair sieve, or puree-strainer, and when the 
skins have boiled nearly dry, add them to 
the pulp. Measure, and allow an equal 
measure of sugar. Put the fruit on to boil, 
and cook twenty minutes, stirring often; 
then add one-fourth of the sugar, boil five 
minutes, add another portion, boil again, 
and, when all the sugar is used, cook until 
the skins are soft. Turn into small jars. 

Canned Peaches. No. I . 

Pare the peach'es, and cut in halves, or 
leave them whole, as you prefer. Allow one . 
cup of sugar to one pint of water. Boil, and 
skim. Put in as many peaches as will cover 
the bottom of the kettle, and let them boil 
up once. Take out with a silver fork, or 
wire spoon, and pack them neatly in the 
jars. Fill up with the boiling syrup, and 
seal. If the peaches are hard, drop them as 
you pare them into boiling water, and cook 
carefully until nearly tender, then take out 
onto large plates, being careful to keep the 
pieces separate ; then, when all are cooked, 
put them into the syrup, for a few minutes. 

Canned Peaches. No. 2. 

Select peaches that are ripe and not too 
soft. Pare, halye, and weigh the fruit, and 
allow six ounces of sugar to each pound of 
fruit. Put the sugar, with just water enough 
to dissolve it, over the fire. Skim as it boils, 
then put in the peaches, a few at a time, and 
as soon as they are well scalded, take out 
carefully, drain, and pack in the jars, filling 
nearly full. Strain the syrup, boil again, 
and then fill the jars. Kun the handle of a 
silver spoon down the inside of the jar to 
let any bubbles escape, and then seal 
quickly. 

Preserved Peaches. No. I. 

Take the skins from the peaches (which 
should be not quite ripe), by putting them lu- 



AYER'S CHERRY PECTORAL strengthens the Voice. 



FOR COLDS AKD COUGHS. 




THROAT AND LUNG 
TROUBLES 

Ate always more "Bi' less prevalent. No 
person is exempt^ all Being liable to at- 
tack. The most common of these Com- 
plaints are coughs, 
sore throat, croup, 
and bronchitis. A 
eoligh is simply Na^ 
ture's effort to re- 
move Something that 

I irritates the lungs or 
,' throat. Wlieh the 
cough arises from 
mucus, or phlegm, 
obstructing the air- 
^ passages, assistance should be given the 
effort by the Use of ah expectorant. When, 
on the Dtlier hand, the cough results from 
soWhess, or inflammation of the threat or 
bronchial tubes, the inclination Should be 
checked by the use of an anodyne. The 
medicine which best answers either purpose 
Is Ayer's Cherry tectoral, the smaller doses 
being anodyne and the larger ones expecto- 
rant. With tills remedy, therefore, any 
ordinary cough can be speedily controlled, 
relieved, and finally 

Cured. 

As a household medicine, Ayer's ChSMy 
Pectoral is ihdiSpBnsable, its prompt use in 
cases of croup and bronchitis haying saved 
■Innumerable lives. It is pleasahl to the 
taste, and Children take it readily. U Used 
in the eai'ly stages of consumption, this med- 
icine checks the progress of the disease, re.- 
lleves coughing, soothes tlie irritated mem- 
brane, and induces repose. 

" For years a confli-med skeptic as to the 
merits of proprietary medicines, I was at 
last converted by the uSe ol Ayer's Cherry 
Pectoral. For montlis a bottle of this medi- 
cine, of which I had come into possession 
through the kindness of a friehd, remained 
unopened in my closet, till one night I was 
seized With a violent cold accompanied by 
a racking Cough. Having none of my usual 
remedies at hand, I thought of the Cherry 
Pectoral, and determined to give it a trial. 
The result was truly magical. Belief came 
almost instantly, and after repeating the 
dose, certainly no); more than half a dozen 
times, I found myself thoroughly cured. 
Subsequently my daughter was cured of a 



severe cough by the use of the Chetry Pec- 
toral! since which I have recommended tliis 
preparation to all sufferers who come under 
my notice."^ J, H. Ritchie, Commission 
Agent, Kingston, South Australia. 

C. J, Wooldridge, Wortham, Texas, says: 
"One of my children had croup. The ease 
was attended by out physician, and was sup» 
posed to be well under control. One night' 
I was startled by the child's hard breatlling, 
and on going to it fouhd it strangling. It 
had nearly ceased to breathe. , Eealizihg 
that the little sufferer's 

Alarming Condition 

had become possible in spite of the medi- 
cines it liad taken, I reasoned that such 
remedies would be of no avail. Having 
part of a botfle of Ayer's Cherry Peotoral in 
the house, I gave the child three doses, at 
short intervals, and anxiously waited re- 
sults. From the moment the Pectoral was 
given, the child's breathing grew, easier. 
In a short time it Was sleeping quietly and 
breathing naturally. The child is alive and 
well to-day, and I do not hesitate to say that 
Ayer's Cherry Pectoral saved its life." 

" In the Winter of 1885 t took a severe Cold 
While teaching school ; my voice became so 
Weak at one time that it almost failed me. 
Feeling very uneasy about myself, I consults 
ed two good physicians ; but nothing they 
prescribed was of any beneilt. On the recom- 
mendation of Mr. J. J. Perry, wiio always 
keeps your medicines on hand, I tried Ayer's 
Clierry Peotoral. It gave immediate relief, 
and one bottle cured me." — C. H. CheuniBg, 
Spottsylvania C. H., Va. 

"Somff years ago I took a violent cold 
which settled 

On nny Lungs. 

I sought the aid of pliysicianS for a long 
time, but kept growing worse. My case was 
thought to be liopeless. Finally I -bouglit a 
Bottle of Ayer's Cherry Pectoral and it 
brought me out of my difficulty. I consider 
that Ayer's Cherry Pectoral saved my life." 
— C. N. Davis, Dealer in Hardware, &c., 
Unadilla, Nebr. 

"For three years I was trouBlad With 
hoarseness, and could find no remedy until 
I took Ayer's Cherry Pectoral, which cured 
me in a few day3."-^S. Jos4 dos Campos, 
Bio, Brazil. 



AYEB'S SABSAPARILIiA cures lilver ComplaiutSk 



V 



AYER'S PRESERVE BOOK. 



to hot lye made from wood ashes ; alter being 
in tlie lye {or a few minutes, throw them into 
cold water, when the skins will slip off easily. 
If the peaches are to be left whole, allow 
three-quarters of a pound of sugar to each 
pound of fruit; but it cut in halves before 
weighing, then allow pound forpound. Make 
a syrup of the sugar, and as little water as 
possible. Boil the peaches in it until they 
are fender and transparent; tiien take out 
and put into tlie jars, and boil the syrup down 
until thick and clear. Strain, and pour it 
over the fruit, and seal at once. 

Preserved Peaches. No. 2. 

After paring, take the weight of the 
peaches in sugar, and put them together in a 
covered bowl, and let them remain over 
night. In the morning, put them on to boil ; 
simmer until tender and transparent. Then 
skim, and seal as usual. 

Canned Pineapple. 

Pare flie pineapple, and carefully remove 
the eyes with a sharp-pointed silver knife, 
Either chop or grate the pineapple, or shred 
It with X. fork, rejecting the core. Weigli, 
and to every pound of fruit allow half a 
pound of sugar, put all together in the pre- 
serving kettle, bring quickly to boiling, skim, 
and remove at once. Put into jars, and seal. 

Preserved Pineapple. 

Pare the pineapple, and carefully pick out 
every particle of the eyes. A small, pointed, 
silver knife is the best for this work. Either 
pick off with a fork, or grate oil, the soft 
part, rejecting the hard core. Weigh, and 
allow three-quarters of a pound of sugar to 
each pound of fruit. Put all together in the 
preserving kettle, stir well, stand aside over 
night. In the morning, bring to a boil, skim, 
and cook sldwly half an hour. Pour it into 
, jars, and seal. ' 

Canned Plums. 

Sweet plums require about half a pound of, 
sugar, and sour plums from twelve to four- 
teen ounces, to a pound of fruit. "Wash the 
plums, and, if large, prick each one in sev- 
eral places, to keep the skin from bursting. 
If the plums are not very soft, and the skins 
are tough, put them in a wire basket, a few 
at a time, and plunge it into boiling water, 
and then into cold water. The skins may 
then be peeled o£E easily. Make the syrup 



according to the acidity of your plums, 

using as little water as possible. Boil and 
skim it. Drop the fruit in carefully, cook 
until tender, then drain, and put into jars. 
Seal at once. 

Preserved Plums. 

Allow equal weight of sugar and plums. 
Wash the fruit, and put it in a large bowl, or 
jar. Make the syrup with as little water as 
possible. Boil and skim it, then pour it over 
the fruit. The next day, pom' off the syrup 
and boil again. Eepeat this on another morn- 
ing, and after the last time, turn the plums 
and syrup Into the kettle, let it boil up quick- 
ly, and then simmer about twenty minutes. 
Pour into jars, and seal. 

Preserved Quinces. 

Wipe the quinces, cut them In quarters, 
and remove the skins and cores. Weigh 
them, and allow an equal weight of sugar. 
Cover with cold water, and as soon as it 
begins- to boil, put in a little of the sugar. 
Do not stir them, but press them down 
under the syrup, and remove the scum. 
Add the sugar by degrees until it is all in the 
kettle. Let them boil slowly until perfectly 
tender and of good color. Drain them well 
as you take them out, and pack in the Jars, 
then fill up with boiling syrup, and seal. 
The syrup that is left may be boiled longer, 
then strained into glasses, and you will have 
jelly. This is thought by many to be the 
very best way of preserving quinces. 

Canned Raspberries. 

Select large, firm berries, and handle care- 
fully to prevent mashing; weigh, and allow 
quarter of a, pound of sugar to a pound of 
fruit. Make a syrup of the sugar, using only 
water enough to dissolve it. Bring the 
syrup to a boil, skim, and put in the berries ; 
boil fast three minutes. Put into jars, and 
seal. 

Raspberry Preserve. 

Allow equal weight of sugar and fruit. 
Pick over the fruit carefully, and lay aside 
the largest and firmest berries. Mash the 
remainder, and put on to boil for ten minutes, 
tlien, squeeze them through a cheese-cloth; 
put this liquid on to boil with the sugar, re- 
move the scum, then put in the wliole ber- 
ries ; let them boil up once, skim them out 
into the jars, filling nearly full. Boll the 



AYER'S HAIK VIGOR cleanses the Scalp. 



8 



MAECH, APRIL, MAT. 




IN THE SPRING. 

_ The necessity o( taking a Spring Medicine 
to remove the Impurities which have ac- 
cumulated in the blood during the winter 
months, and to 
overcome the long 
train of debilital^ 
ing conditions re- 
sulting from their 
retention in the 
life-current, should 
be apparent to 
every one. Unless 
these impurities 
are removed, the 
system, with its re- 
duced vitality, is 
unprepared to 
meet the additional 
depressing influ- 
ence of warmer 
weather; hence it is that Debility, That 
Tired Feeling, Languor, Loss of Appetite, 
and the hundred and one other ills peculiar 
to the Spring season prevail. 

The beat medicine to correct these con- 
ditions is Ayer's Sarsaparilla. It is Su- 
PE:piOK to all others. It is Supekiok, be- 
cause if promptly expels from the blood all 
worn-out and impure matter, and supplies in 
its place, the elements necessary to health 
and strength. It is 

Superior, 
because it gives tone to the stomach, quickens 
the appetite, aids digestion, and restores to 
the whole system its natural force and vigoi;. 
It is also SuPERioK, because it never fails to 
give satisfaction, a dose of the same meas- 
ure always having the ^ame value. Ayer's 
Sarsaparilla is compounded from the true 
Honduras sarsaparilla root,— the variety 
richest in medicinal properties,— which be- 
ing combined with yellpw dock — raised ex- 
pressly for us — and other well-known tonic 
and vegetable alteratives, forms a Superiok 
preparation for all diseases originathig in 
impure blood. Ayer's Sarsaparilla always 
presents the same appearance and always 
has the same iia,vor. 

If you are troubled with biliousness, nerv- 
ousness, constipation, disordered kidneys, 
bad breath, furred tongue, night sweats, a 
constant desire for rest, inability to fix the 
mind for any length of'time upon any partic- 



ular subject, if you suffer slight pains in tlie 
muscular tissues, similar to rheumatism, 
take Ayer's Sarsaparilla, the Superioh 
medicine. It has cured others and will cure 
you. 

"Every spring for years I have had intol- 
erable headaches, and total loss of energy, 
so that the season which should be wel- 
comed by me was a dread ; for as the warm, 
pleasant days arrived, they brought to me 
lassitude and pain. My druggist had known 
me from childhood, and advised mo to take, 
early in the spring, Ayer's Sarsaparilla. I 
commenced using it in March, and have not 
had, since then, the first symptom of head- 
ache. 

My Appetite is Splendid, ^ 

and I perform my daily duties with a cheer- 
fulness and energy that surprises myself. I 
take pleasure in telling all my friends of the 
merits of Ayer's Sarsaparilla, and the happy 
results of its use." — Lizzie W. peVeau, 
Brooklyn, N. Y. 

"Every spring for the last nine years I 
have been in the habit of taking Ayer's Sar- 
saparilla, and I can truly say that I have 
never used any medicine that did^e so 
much good. I am convinced that it is the 
best medicine of the kind in the market, and 
recommend it to all in need of a reliable and 
effective blood -purifier."- J. A. Shepard, 
Proprietor of Shepard's Paragon Varnish, 
246 Pearl St., New York City. 

" For several years, in the spring months, 
I used to be troubled with a drowsy, tired 
feeling, and a dull pain in the small of my 
back, so bad, at times, as to prevent my be- 
ing able to walk, the least s.ndden motion 
causing me severe distress. Occasionally, a 
rash covered my body, the skin apparently 
becoming thickened, accompanied by 

Intense Itcliing. 

Frequently, boils woiild break out on vari- 
ous parts of my body. By the advice of a 
friend and my family physician, I began 
the use of Ayer's Sarsaparilla and continued 
it till the poison in my system was com- 
pletely eradicated. I believe that every- 
body would be benefited by taking a bottle 
or two of Ayer's Sarsaparilla during the 
spring months. Its effect upon me was cer- 
tainly phenomenal.'' — L. W. English, Mont- 
gomery City, Mo. 



AYER'S PILLS— the best Liver Medicine. 



AYER'S PRESERVE BOOK. 



syrup down until there is atout enough to 
fill the jars, then put the berries back and 
boil up once more, fill the jars, and seal 
quickly. 

Strawberry preserve may be made in the 
same manner. ■ 

Canned Rhubarb. 

Peel the rhubarb, and cut into three- 
quarter-inch lengths. Weigh, and to every 
pound allow half a pound of sugar. Make a 
syrup of hall a pint ot water to two pounds 
of sugar, let it boil, and skim. Put in the 
rhubarb, and boil fast five minutes. Put in- 
to jars, and seal. 

Canned Strawberries. 

The first berries picked from the vines are 
tlie firmest and the finest flavored, and so 
are better for canning than those gathered 
later. Use only the largest and most perfect 
ones. Allow two baskets to a quart jar. 
Put halt a 'pound of granulated sugar and 
two tablespoonfuls of water on to boil, and 
boil until it begins to crystalize, then drop 
in the fruit carefully, and just let it boil up 
once. Then carefully skim out the fruit in- 
to tlie jars, and fill to overflowing with the 
boiling syrup. Seal as usual. Strawberries 
done in this way keep their shape, flavor, 
and color, and are preferred by those who 
do not like them very sweet. 

Canned Tomatoes. No. I. 

Tomatoes should be canned in August, 
when the fruit is In the best condition. It is 
highly important that the fruit should be 
perfectly sound, and not too ripe; for a 
single spjft of'decay will contain a sufBcient 
number of fei-ment-germs to spoil the entire 
mass. 

These are the most reliable methods : 

Have a large kettle of rapidly -boiling 
water on the stove. Wipe the tomatoes, fill 
a wire basket with them, and plunge it into 
the boiling water until the skins begin to 
crack. Then plunge into cold water, and 
remove the skins and the hard part under 
the stem. 

Mash thoroughly, and let them boil quick- 
ly until perfectly soft, |but not enough to 
evaporate all the liquid. Then season as 
for the table. To every quart, allow one tea- 
spoonful of salt, one salt-spoonful of pepper, 
and half a cup of sugar. Cook five minutes 
longer, then fill the jars almost full. Have 



ready some butter, melted, strained, and 
boiling hot, in the proportion of one table- 
spoonful to every jar. Fill to the brhn with 
the hot butter, and seal at once. Olive oil 
may be used instead of butter. Wrap the 
jars in paper, and keep in a darlc place. Ex- 
amipe tlie jars after two weeks, and if any 
of them show signs of ferment, turn out the 
contents, and treat as directed in-iiiaking 
catsup, which see. 

Canned Tomatoes. No. 2. 

Prepare as in the first recipe, but season 
only with salt. Let them boil down until 
quite thick, then fill the jars nearly full, add 
boiling water to the brim, and seal at once. 
Be careful that no seeds or pulp run over 
the edge between the glass and the rubber. 
Keep the jars wrapped in paper, in a cool 
place. Use these only for soups and sauces. 

Tomato Figs. 

Allow half a pound of coJIee-sugar to every 
pound of tomatoes. The yellow plum toma- 
toes, or the very small and perfectly smooth 
red ones are preferred for this method ot 
preserving. Put the sugar on the stove wit^i 
just water enough to melt it. As soon as it 
boils, put the tomatoes in whole with the 
skins on. Draw the kettle back where they 
will simmer gently. Cook until transparent, 
about two hours. Skim them out carefully, 
and drain off all the syrup. Spread them on 
platters to dry, in the sun, if possible. 
Sprinkle a little sugar over them while dry- 
ing, and the next day tiu-n them, and sprinkle 
again with sugar. Do so tor two or three 
days. When sufficiently dry, pack in boxes. 
Seven pounds of tomatoes will make two 
quarts of figs. 

Creen Tomato Preserve. 

To one pound of fruit use three-quarters of 
a pound of granulated sugar. Allow one 
sliced lemon to two pounds of truit, first tast- 
ing the white of the lemon to be sure it is not 
bitter. It letter, use the yellow rind, grated, 
or shaved thin, and the juice. Put the sugar 
on with just water enough to melt it, add the 
tomato and lemon, and cook gently until the 
tomato is tender and transparent. Cut the 
tomatoes around in halves, and then quarter 
the halves. This shape is preferable to 
slices. This will keep without sealing, but it 
is better to put it in small jars, as it is so rich 
that only a little is wanted at a time. 



AYER'S SARSAPA^ILLA— Concentrated, Effective. 



10 



ERUPTIVE DISEASES. 




PIMPLES AND BLOTCHES 

Are blood impurities cropping to the sur- 
face instead of passing away tlirough the 
proper eliminating channels which, for some 
reason, have become 
sluggish and inoper- 
ative. The specific 
needed in such cases 
is Ayer's Sarsapa- 
rilla. Its effect is to 
restore the normal 
and regular func- 
tions of these organs 
and thereby expel 
from the system, all 
trace of acid, poison, 
or impurity. 
"I was troubled, for 
a long time, with a 
humor, which ap- 
peared on my face in ugly pimples and 
blotches. Ayer's Sarsaparilla cured me. I 
consider it the best blood-purifler in the 
world." — Charles H. Smith, North Crafts- 
bury, Vt. 

" No medicine could be better adapted to 
cleanse the blood of Impurities which mani- 
fest themselves on the skin by pimples, 
blotches, and 

Small Ulcers, 
than Ayer's Sarsaparilla. I have used it for 
that purpose with the most gratifying re- 
results."— J. E. Eoseberry, Wharton,. Tex. 

" I was troubled for years with boils and 
pimples, but was entirely cured by the use 
of Ayer's Sarsaparilla." — W. C. Minor, 
Lloyds, Va. 

M. Parker, Concord, Vt., writes: "My 
face, for years, was covered with pimples 
and humors, for which I could find no rem- 
edy till I began to take Ayer's Sarsaparilla. 
Three bottles of this great blood medicine 
effected 'a thorough cure, and I can confi- 
dently recommend it to all suffering from 
similar complaints." 

" 1 was afflicted with a skin disease for 
about a year, but was entirely cured by 
the use of Ayer's Sarsaparilla."- C. C. Bee, 
P. M., Richardson, W. Va. 

"Nearly three years ago a bad humor came 
out, first on my hands and arms and then ex- 
tended to my neck and face. It was treated 
by three different doctors, neither of them 
effecting any cure. In fact, the humor grew 



worse after their treatment. I then began 
to take Ayer's Sarsaparilla, and two bottles 
entirely cured me, so that I have not been 
troubled since."— Mary O'Eegan. 

"I know the above statement to be true."— 
E. W. Lynds, Merchant, Hopewell Hill, N. B; 

"When I was eighteen years ^Id I suf- 
fered from a bad humor. Being advised to 
try Ayer's Sarsaparilla, I took four bottles, 
and, shortly after, the eruptions began to 
dry up and scale off, leaving my body, 
arms, and legs in a clean, healthy condition. 
I have not had any symptoms since."— W. R. 
Allan, Dennysville, Me. 

"I cannot forbear to express my joy at the 
relief I have obtained from the use of Ayer's 
Sarsaparilla. I was afflicted with 

Kidney Troubles 

for about six months, suffering greatly with 
pains in the small of my back. In addi- 
tion to this, my body was covered with a 
pimply eruption. The remedies prescribed 
by the doctors did me no good. I then be- 
gan to take Ayer's Sarsaparilla, and after 
using two bottles of it, I felt like a different 
man— the pains ceased and the pimples have 
disappeared. I advise every young man or 
woman, in any case of sickness resulting 
from impure blood, no matter how long 
standing the, case may be, to take Ayer's 
Sarsaparilla." — H. Louis Jarmann, Janitor, 
35 William St., New York City. ' 

" Some time ago I had an unsightly dis- 
coloration of the skin— especially of the' face 
—and being advised by physicians that this 
trouble was due mainly to derangement of 
the liver, I took Ayer's SarsapaHlla, and 
have been 

Greatly Benefited, 

It has reached my case and done me more 
good than any other remedy."- Jos. Clagett, 
118 Tenth St., N. W., Washington, D. C. 

"My constitution is naturally delicate, but 
two years ago I became so weak and lan- 
guid that I was unable to perform my work, 
which is mental. . A minute eruption, which 
gave much trouble, made its appearance 
on my skin. The physicians' prescriptions 
proving of no avail, I was induced to try 
Ayer's Sarsaparilla, and soon my strength 
returned and my skin resumed its natural 
appearance."— Miss Maggie O'Nell, East 
Nodoway, Iowa. 



AYER'S CHERRY PECTORAIi cures Lung Disorders. 



AVER'S PRESERVE BOOK. 



11 



Preserved Tomatoesi 

Take one lemon antl one pound ot light 
brown sugar, to one pound of tomatoes. 
Grate the thin'yellow rind o£ the lemon, then 
pare ofE the thick white part whlah I3 not to 
be used, slice It thinly, and remove all 
the seeds. Scald, and peel the tomatoes. - 
Put water enough witli the sugat to dis- 
solve It, and when It is toiling, remove the 
scum, and add the tomatoes. Cook slowly 
tot two hours. 



Whole Tomatoes, for Winter Use. 

Fill a large stone Jar with ripe, and per- 
fectly sound, whole tomatoes, adding a few 
cloves and a sprinkling of sugar between 
each layer. Cover well with one-half cold 
vinegar and one-half water. Place a piece 
of thick flannel over the jar, letting it fall 
well down into the vinegar, then tie clown 
with a cover of brown paper. These Will 
keep all winter, and are not harmed even if 
the flannel collects mould. 



BUTTERS, JAMS, AND MARMALADES. 



These are made from the whole of the fruit, 
—juice and pulp, — and, in some instances, 
the seeds are used also. The fruit should 
be mashed thoroughly before cooking, or cut 
in small pieces and stewed till tender, and in 
soine cases be strained. If cooked some- 
time before adding the sugar, there will be 
less danger of burning, less sugar required, 
and the seeds will not be hardened. Fre- 
quent stirring is necessary to prevent burn- 
ing. The proportion of sugar and tlie time 
for cooking varies wltb each fruit. They 
are cooked sufficiently when they bubble up 
thick, or when a little dropped on a cold 
plate. Will keep in shape, or stiffen quickly. 

Apple Butter. 

One gallon of boiled cider, half a bushel of 
tart, juiey apples — use Greenings, Bald- 
wins, or any kind that will cook tender 
quickly. If you cannot buy bottled cider, 
procure some sweet elder, fresh from the 
press, and boil It down in a porcelain kettle 
to half the quantity. Quarter the apples, I'e- 
moVe the skins and cores, and Cut in small 
piedes. Cook the apples in the boiling older, 
putting in as many as the cider will cover, 
■Wlen the apples are soft, skim them out, 
and add more until all are cooked. Then 
mash them as soft as possible, and put all 
together again in the cider, and Cook very 
slowly until thick like marmalade. Stir 
often with a large wooden spoon, or smooth 
flat stick, being very careful not to let them 
burn or stick to the kettle. New England 
housekeepers used to have a paddle, or 
stick, jbxpressly for stirring fruit butter. An 
easy way to make this delicious old-time 
dish is put it into stone jars and cook in the 
oven, when you can have a slow fire for a 
longtime. 



It you wish the apple butter to have a 
spicy flavor, you may allow one teaspoohful 
each of cinnamon, grated nutmeg, and all- 
spice, to each gallon of sauce, putting it In 
when the sauce is nearly done. 

Sweet-Cider Apple Sauce. 
One gallon of new, unfermehted cider, 
boiled down to two quarts. Half a bushel of 
nice sweet apples, pared, quartered, and 
cored. Put the cider in a porcelain kettle ; 
when boiling, add as mahy apples as the 
kettle will hold; cover closely, and cook 
very slowly Without stirring, until the apples 
are tender. Then skim them out and add 
more, and So on until all are cooked. Pour 
the syrup over the apples, and put away ta 
Cool. The next day drain off the syrup, and 
boil it down Until quite thick, then pour 
again over the apples. If not reduced 
enough, drain and boil down again. The 
pieces of apple should be quite distinct, and 
yet they should absorb nearly all the syrup. 

Barberry Jam. 

Free the berries ftom stems, and allow an 
equal weight of sugar. Put them in the 
preserving kettle with just water enough to 
cover. Let them cook sloWIy, and when the 
juice is drawn out, add the sugar and sim- 
mer forty minutes, stirring often. Turn into 
small jars, and cover with paper. If the 
seeds are objectionable, the jam should be 
strained befol'e adding the sugar. 

Blackberry Jam. / 

Allow three-quarters of a pound of sugar 
to a pound of berries. Put the berries in a 
preserving kettle, mash them until enough 
juice flows to prevent burning, then heat 
slowly, and mash until all are broken. Cook 
twenty minutes, then add tho sugar, and 



AY£B'S HAIB VIGOR preserves tbe Hair. 



12 



SPECIFIC FOR RHEUMATISM. 




RHEUMATISM 

Is caused by an acid in the Wood— the re- 
sult of exposure to cold, damp, or other at 
mospheric changes. Any impairment of the 
general health, from 
defective nutrition, 
seems to specially in- 
frease the liability of 
an attack of this dis- 
ease, the excruciating 
pains of which affect 
1 rich and poor alike. 

Rheumatism yields 
readily to skillful and 
persistent treatment, 
the best remedy being 
A y e r ' s Sarsaparilla. 
This medicine is so 
carefully and scientifloally combined, as to 
hold, in concentrated form, all the remedial 
virtues of drugs most elHcacious in aiding 
the system to throv? off the morbid secre- 
tions which favor rheumatism; it neutral- 
izes the acidity of the blood, keeps the liver, 
kidneys, and skin in perfect tone, and thus 
Induces the conditions necessary to health. 

" In Oakland, La., 22 years ago, I had been 
sick a year and a half with sciatic rheuma- 
tism. The extreme pains I suffered wasted 
my flesh to the bone, and my strength and 
vitality were well-nigh exhausted. My skin 
was yellow and rough, showing a bad state 
of the blood, and it is more than likely blood 
poison existed, as I have taken large quan- 
tities of mercury. After the 
Sciatica 
was in a measure under control, I was put 
under treatment to cleanse the blood and 
give me strength. This was continued sev- 
eral weeks, but to no purpose. My physi- 
cian then suggested the use of Ayer's Sar- 
saparilla, and it is to this medicine I owe my 
I'lBstoralion to health. From actual experi- 
ence in the use of various blood-purifiers,. I 
am confident that Ayer's Sarsaparilla has no 
equal."— J. W. Pickle, Farmerville, La. 

" For two years I suffered from rheuma- 
tism, and spent a great deal of money use- 
lessly in search of a cure. Since using 
Ayer's Sarsaparilla, I have become strong 
and am completely cured of rheumatism. I 
can confidently recommend this medicine to 
all similarly afflicted." — Jean M^trailles, 
Canandaigua, N. Y. 



"During the past year my joints, which 
had become stiff and sore, caused me great 
pain, especially at the close of a day's work. 
At times my fingers were so lame I was un- 
able to hold a needle, while the pain at night 
prevented my sleeping. I suffered also from 
.nervous chills and a want of appetite. I 
tried outward applications and took reme- 
dies prescribed by my doctor ; but all to no 
purpose. A short time ago my son-in-law, 
Wm. Woods, of Hollis, N. H., was cured by 
the use of Ayer's Sarsaparilla of an inflam- 
matory disease of the eyes, and seeing liim 
so much benefited, I thought I would try 
this medicine for my own trouble. The re- 
sult is 

A Complete Cure 

of the pains, stiffness, and swellings from 
whicli I suffered so much. The Sarsaparilla 
has also had a good effect on my appetite 
and nerves, so that I have better strength 
and no more chills." — Eliza Halvorson, 
Nashua, N. H. 

" For over fifteen years I suffered untold 
misery from rheumatism. Physicians' pre- 
scriptions, as well as the various specifics, 
proving of no avail, I at length concluded to 
give Ayer's Sarsaparilla a persistent trial. 
I used in all about eighteen bottles, and 
have had no return of the complaint. The 
expense for'your medicine was nothing com- 
pared with what I had put out for doctoring 
that did me no good whatever. I am happy 
to state that the Sarsaparilla has also cured 
me of piles, of over two years' duration."— 
H. P. Green, Johnstown, Ohio. 

" In the interest of afflicted humanity, I 
make the following statement: About two 
years ago, after suffering for nearly two 
years from 

Rlieumatic Cout, 

being able to walk only with great discom- 
fort, ,and having tried various remedies, in- 
cluding mineral waters, without relief, I saw 
by an advertisement in a Chicago paper that 
a man had been relieved of this distressing 
complaint, after long suffering, by taking 
Ayer's Sarsaparilla. I then decided to make 
a trial of this medicine, and took it regularly 
for eight months, and am pleased to say that 
it has effectually cured me, so that I have 
since had no return of the disease."— Mrs. 
E. Irving Dodge, 110 West 125th street. New 
York City. 



AYER'S SARSAPARILLA improves the Complexion. 



ATEE'S PRESERVE BOOK. 



13 



cook ten minutes longer. Put into small 
jars qr tumblers, and seal. 

Gooseberry Jam. 

Top and stem the gooseberries. To every 
pound of fruit allow one pound of sugar. 
Put the gooseberries into the preserving 
kettle, just covering with cold water. After 
they are well boiled to pieces, add the sugar 
and cook slowly, stirring often for half nn 
hour. Put into jars, or tumblers, and stand 
aside to cool. Wlien cold, cover with paper. 

Crape Marmalade. 

"Wash, pick over, and mash the grapes; 
heat slowly, and boil until very soft. Then 
turn into a hair sieve, or puree-strainer, and 
rub with a wooden potato-masher until all 
but the seeds and skins have gone through. 
Put what remains in the strainer into a 
little cold water, and rinse welj until all the 
pulp is free from the skins. Then strain 
again, and add this water to ihe pulp. Boil 
slowly, half an hour. Measure the pulp, and 
add an equal measure of sugar ; cook again 
for ten minutes, or until it boils up in thicic 
bubbles. Turn into small jars, and cover 
tightly. This is excellent with meats or as 
a fruit sandwich. 



Orange Marmalade. 

Quarter the rind of the oranges, peel it off, 
and cut into long thin strips. Cover with 
boiling water, and simmer till tender, chang- 
ing the water three times. Free the pulp 
from seeds and tough membrane. Weigh 
the pulp, juice, and the cooked rind, and 
allow an equal weight of sugar. Put all to- 
gether, and simmer until thick and jelly- 
like. Turn into small jars, and, when cool,- 
cover with paper. 

Peach iVIarmaiade. 

'When canning peaches, save the parings 
and the soft or unshapely pieces. Cover 
with cold water, and simmer until soft. Eub 
through a sieve, or puree-strainer, then boil 
again twenty minutes. Add half the weight 
in sugar, and boil until it thickens. 

Raspberry Jam. 

Allow equal weight of sugar and rasp- 
berries. Mash the berries, and cook them 
in their own juice half an hour. Stir often, 
tlien add one-fourth of the sugar, boil five 
minutes, then add another part of sugar, 
boil again,' and so on until the sugar is all in. 
Put into small jars, and cover with paper 
when cold. 



JELLIES. 



It is unwise to attempt to make jelly from 
every kind of fruit-juice. There are some 
fruits which contain no pectin, the substance 
which makes the juice form a jelly; and 
though the cook-books and household papers 
contain recipes for making every kind of 
fruit-jelly, we shall give no recipes here for 
any of the doubtful varieties. Much that is 
called jelly by ambitious jelly-makers proves 
to be only a thick syrup. Easpberries, 
strawberries, and cherries, need the addition 
of currants; barberries, peaches, and pears, 
need apple, plums, or quince, to make a per- 
fect jelly. 

The simplest way to strain fruit-juice for 
jelly is to lay a large piece (about a yard 
square) of fine cheese-cloth, or cotton-and- 
weol flannel, over aJiair sieve, and place the 
sieve over a large bowl. Theft pour in the 
fruit, and by raising the corners of the cloth 
often, and letting the fruit slip along to a 
clean place, the juice will soon run through 
without any pressure. If you have no hair 
sieve, tie the diagonal corners of the cloth 



together, and suspend it over the bowl, either 
by hanging the cloth on a long hook in the 
casing over the pantry shelf, or on a stick 
.between two chairs, or shelves, or in any way 
that your conveniences may suggest. Let it 
drip until dry. Juice that is strained witli- 
out any pressure makes the clearest jelly. 
In all cases where the fruitmust be squeezed, 
or pressed, strain the juice the second time 
through a cloth, finer than the one first used. 
Jellies are of finer flavor when the sugar is 
not boiled long with the fruit. Make not 
more than one quart at a time, and never,' if 
possible, make it on a damp day. 

Eoll the tumblers in hot water, and let 
them stand in a pan of hot water one inch 
deep, while filling. If the jelly is peiifectly 
skimmed, it is not necessary to strain it just 
before filling the glasses. Fill each glass full 
to the brim, set away in a diy place, or in the 
sun, and in a few days cover the jelly with 
soft paper, cut to fit inside the glass, and 
then put on the tin covers. 

Or cut r6unds of paper a little larger than 



AYER'S CHERRY PECTORAL— the Best Expectorant. 



^ 



14 



FOE FADED OR GRAY HAIR. 




AVER'S HAIR VIGOR 

Not only restores the color, texture, and 
richness to hair which has become thin, 
faded, or gray, but, by keeping the scalp 
^■\'-'<ay" '""" '" I clean, cool, and 
^"^ healthy, it causes the 

hair to retain for 
years much ol its 
youthful fullness and 
beauty. It heals 
troublesome humors 
of the scalp, removes 
dandruff, promotes a 
new and vigorous 
growth of hair, and 
imparts to it that soft, 
silken texture so ad- 
mired and desired by 
all. 

Ayer's Hair Vigor 
is cleanly, safe, and 
«J economical, and as 
nearly resembles the natural oil of the glands 
as it is possible to produce by artificial 
means. The demand for it is greater than 
for any other dressing, and all who use it 
are enthusiastic in its praise. 

"A few years ago I suffered the entire loss 
of my hair from the effects of tetter. 1 
hoped that after a time nature would repair 
the loss, but I waited in vain. Months went 
by, and my scalp became 

Smooth and Shiny, 

and was as barren of hair as an egg. At my 
age then, a bald head was undesirable, and I 
was anxious to gain what I had lost. Many 
remedies were suggested, none, however, 
with such proof of merit as Ayer's Hair 
Vigor, and I began to use it. The result was 
all I could have desired. A new growth of 
hair, of the natural color, and as soft, 
heavy, and firmly set as 1 ever had, soon 
came out all over my head. All hail to 
Ayer's Hair Vigor!"— J. H. Pratt, Spofford, 
Texas. 

"For several months I was troubled with 
a persistent humor on my head, which gave 
me considerable annoyance and discomfort, 
until it occurred to me to try Ayer's Hair 
Vigor. Before using one bottle the humor 
was healed. I earnestly recommend this 
preparation to any person similarly aSaict- 
ed.» — T. T. Adams, General Merchant, 
Turbeville, Va. 



" I have used Ayer's Hair Vigor for nearly 
five years, and my hair is moJst, glossy, and 
in an excellent state of preservation. I am 
forty years old, and have ridden the plains 
for twenty -five years." — Wm. Henry Ott, 
alias " Mustang Bill," Newcastle, "Wyo. 

" Some six or seven years ago my wife had 
a severe illness, in consequence of which she 
became almost entirely bald. A few months 
since she began using Ayer's Hair Vigor and 
now has a good growtli of hair started all over 
her head. The result is a most gratifying 
proof of the merits of this admirable preparer 
tion." — Fredk. P. Coggoshall, Bookseller, 61 
Merrimack st., Lowell, Mass. 

"Nine years ago, at the age of 45, I was 
nearly bald, my hair, from some unknown 
cause, having fallen out gradually. We had 
found Ayer's Pills such an effectual general 
remedy that when I needed a hair-restorer I 
naturally turned to Ayer's Hair Vigor, I 
used this and 

A New Growth 

of hair started. My hair is now as heavy 
and firmly set as in youth." — Mrs. L. C. 
Wilson, Sulphur Springs, Texas. 

Mrs. Lydia O. Moody, East Pittston, Me., 
writes : " I have used Ayer's Hair Vigor for 
some time, and it has worked wonders for 
me. I was troubled with dandruff and fall- 
ing hair, so that I was rapidly becoming 
bald, but since using the Vigor, my head is 
perfectly clear of dandruff, the hair has 
ceased coming out, and I now have a good 
growth, of the same color as when I was a 
young woman. I can heartily recommend 
the use of Ayer's Hair Vigor to any one suf- 
fering from dandruff or falling hair." 

" Some years ago my neighbor, Mr. E. A. 
Thayer, met with an accident which caused 
the loss of all hair from the back of his head, 
For three years he tried all preparations 
recommended, but without success. By my 
advice he used 

Ayer's Hair Vigor 

and succeeded in bringing out a good growth 
of hair on the parts once wholly bald." — 
S. W. Taylor," Unadilla, Nebr. 

"After using a number of other prepara^ 
tions without any satisfactory result, I find 
that Ayer's Hair Vigor is causing my hair to 
grow."— A. J. Osment, General Merchant, 
Indian Head, N. W. T. 



AYER'S SARSAPARILLA cures Eruptive Disorders. 



V 



AYER'S PRESERVE BOOK. 



15 



the glass, wet them round the edge with flour 
paste, and paste them on the glass. 

Apple Jelly. 

Twelve pippin apples, wipe, and cut them 
in quarters, put them into two quarts of cold 
water, and let them stand over night. In 
the morning, stew them until the liquid is 
half boiled away. Then add the juice of 
two lemons and the yellow rind of one. Boil 
ten minutes longer, and turn into a stiainer- 
cloth to drip. Measure the juice, and put 
an equal measure of sugar on plates, and set 
it In the oven. "When the juice has boiled 
until it begins to jelly round the edge of the 
pan, add the sugar, stir until melted, remove 
the scum, and strain into the glasses. 

Crab-Apple Jelly. 

Wash the apples, remove the blossom end, 
and cut in small pieces, but do not pare, or 
core; for the skins and seeds improve the 
color and quality of the jelly. Cover with 
. cold water, and cook gently until soft. Keep 
them covered, and turn the kettle often, but 
do not stir or mash the apples. When the 
apples are very soft, and the liquid is red, 
turn them into a strainer-cloth, and hang it 
up to drip all night. In the morning boil the 
liquidften minutes, then strain again through 
a very fine cloth, and measure it. Allow half 
a pound of sugar to a pint of juice. Boil the 
juice alone until it begins to thicken on the 
edge of the pan, then add the sugar, And 
cook five minutes longer, or until it jellies, 
then skim, and turn into glasses. 

Barberry Jelly. 

Pick over the barberries, and wash them. 
Put them into the preserving kettle, and to 
every four quarts of berries allow three pints 
of water, and a dozen sour apples quartered 
and cored. 

Boil slowly until apples and berries are 
soft, then turn into the^elly-bag, and drip, 
being very careful not to squeeze it, or the 
jelly will not be clear. Boil the juice twenty 
minutes, skim, and measure, and to every 
cup of juice use a generous cupful of sugar. 
Boil until it jellies, which will sometimes 
take thirty minutes. Pour into tumblers, and 
after three or four days, cover with paper. 

Blackberry Jelly. 

Use the low, wild blackberries. Mash 
them, and heat slowly, until the juice is all 



drawn out. Then squeeze through a cheese- 
cloth, and drip through a flannel strainer, 
^llow a scant cup of sugar to every cup of 
juice. Boil the juice fifteen minutes, tlien 
add the hot sugar, and boil until it thickens, 
when poured on a cool plate. 

Cranberry Jelly. 

Pick over and wash the cranberries. Put 
them into the preserving kettle, with water 
enough to show through the berries, — about 
one cupful to a quart of berries. Cook until 
the berries are soft, mashing them often 
against the sides of the kettle. Turn into a 
cheese-cloth to drain. Lift the corners of 
the cloth often, and allow the jelly to drip 
through a clean place. Measure the juice, 
and allow an equal measure of sugar. Boil 
the juice fifteen minutes, then add the sugar, 
remove the scum, and when it thickens on 
the spoon, turn at once into the glasses. 

After usuig the juice for jelly, rub the pulp 
through a sieve, add an equal measure of 
sugar, and simmer half an hour, or until 
thick like marmalade. 

Currant Jelly. 

Bruise apd squeeze the currants until all 
the juice is out of them, then strain through 
flannel, and put the juice on to boil for fif- 
teen minutes. Strain again, and measure, 
and allow the same measure of sugar. Bring 
the juice to boiling again, and as soon as it 
begins to thicken on the pan, remove from 
the fire, add the sugar quickly, stir well, and 
remove the scum, then turn at once Into the 
glasses. Currants should be gathered on a 
clear dry day, and before they are fully ripe. 

Currant Jelly and Jam. 

Measure the currants, and add by measure 
two-thirds as much sugar. Let them stand 
until some juice is drawn out, then heat 
through slowly, and cook twenty minutes 
after they begin to boil. Strain ofE all the 
juice that will run through the strainer with- 
out pressing, and turn it Into jelly-glasses. 
To the remainder, add spices to taste, and 
heat again for a tew minutes, and then bottle. 

Crape Jelly. 

The wild grapes, gathered just as they be- 
gin to turn, are the best for jelly. Cultivated 
grapes, if fully ripe, are quite likely to dis- 
appoint one, if used for jelly; the color is 
dark and unattractive, and the compound is 



AYER'S CATHARTIC PILLS— the Best Family Medicine. 



16 



SCROFULOUS AFFLICTIONS. 




CATARRH 

Is a most frequent symptom of SCEortrLA 
in its early stages. It is an inflammation of 
the lining membrane of Hie nose and ad- 
joining passages. If 
this inflammation is 
not arrested, it in- 
vades the passages 
which lead from the 
nose to the ears, 
throat, and lungs, in- 
jures the sight and 
hearing, destroys the 
senses of smell and 
taste, renders the 
breath offensive, breaks dovfn the affected 
tissues, and consumes the nasal cartilages. 
The accompaniments of the disease are 
pains and ringing noises in the ears ; pains 
in the throat and javf; pains through the 
bones of the nose and forehead ; a disagree- 
able fullness of the head ; partial deafness ; 
offensive breath ; confused thought ; hoarse- 
ness or loss of voice, nausea, hawking, etc. 
Catarrh can only be 

Radically Cured 

by expelling from the blood the pOisons upon 
which the disease depends. For this pur- 
pose, Ayer's Sarsaparilla is superior to all 
other remedies. It is superior because each 
Ingredient is known to have a specific value 
in the treatment of this disease, and because 
it never fails to give satisfaction. It has 
cured others and will cure you. 

Frank Teson, Jr., engineer, 271 W. Fourth 
St., New York city, testifies : " For the past 
eight years I have been severely afflicted 
with catarrh, none of the many remedies I 
tried affording me any relief. My digestion 
was considerably impaired, and my sleep 
disturbed by phlegm dropping into my throat. 
My head, at times, became dizzy, and I was 
troubled with 

Ringing IMoises 

in the ears and partial deafness. In Sep- 
tember last I resolved to try Ayer's Sarsa- 
parilla, and began at once to test its qualities 
as a blood-purifier. I have taken only four 
bottles of this medicine and am glad to tes- 
tify that the symptoms from which I suffered 
are removed." 

"When Ayer's Sarsaparilla was recom- 
mended to me as a cure for catarrh, I was 



inclined to doubt its efScacy. I had tried so 
many medicines for this disgusting com- 
plaint, and with so little benefit, that I 
had no faith anything would cure me. I be- 
came much emaciated from loss of appe- 
tite and impaired digestion. My breath was 
very offensife. I had nearly lost the sense 
of smell, and my system was badly deranged. 
I was discouraged. Doing away with all 
external applications, except cleanliness, I 
had resolved to let nature fight it out ; but, 
alter steadily growing worse for some time, 
I became convinced that something must be 
done to save my life. Just then a friend 
urged me to try the effects of Ayer's Sarsa- 
parilla, and referred me to cases where It 
had cured the worst catarrh, through its 
effect on the blood. I am now convinced 
that this is the 

Only Sure Way 

of treating this obstinate disease. My cure 
is perfect, and the comfort I experience in 
body and mind is all due to Ayer's Sarsapa- 
rilla. As a blood-purifier, I do not believe 
it has an equal."— Andrew B. Cornell, Fair- 
field, la. 

" I was troubled with catarrh for over two 
years. I tried various remedies, and was 
treated' by a number of physicians, but re- 
ceived no benefit until I commenced taking 
Ayer's Sarsaparilla. A few bottles com- 
pletely restored my health."— Jesse Boggs, 
Holman's Mills, N. C. 

" I have been affiicted for many years with 
chronic catarrh, and after using many local 
applications of various kinds, without bene- 
fit, I tried Ayer's Sarsaparilla, a few bottles 
of which gave me 

Permanent Relief. 

I regard Ayer's Sarsaparilla as an excellent 
blood -purifier, and believe this to be the 
only method of curing catarrh."— J. G. 
Van Fleet, Fleetville, Pa. 

"My son — now fifteen years of age— was 
cured of catarrh, in Its worst form, by the 
use of Ayer's Sarsaparilla."— D. P. Kerr, 
Big Springs, Ohio. 

•■ Ayer's Sarsaparilla cured me of catarrh, 
impure blood, and general debility."— Leon 
Henrickon, Jr., Ware, Mass. 

" I was cured of long-standing catarrh by 
tl\e use of Ayer's Sarsaparilla."- James J. 
Dougher, Comp. G, 13th Inf., Wingate, N. M. 



AYER'S PIIXS— the best Famijy Medicine. 



AYEE'S PRESERVE BOOK. 



17 



often a syrup ratlier than a jelly, but they 
make delicious marmalade. 

Wash the grapes and free them from the 
stems. Put them in the kettle, and mash 
them until all broken. Heat slowly, and 
cook until the juice is well drawn 6ut. Then 
place a square of cheese-cloth over a colan- 
der, and set the colander over a bowl. Turn 
in the grapes, and let it drip without any 
pressure. Measure the juice, and allow an 
equal measure of sugar. It wild grapes are 
used, allow a little more than an equal ppr- 
tion of sugar. Boil the juice fifteen minutes. 
Skim, and strain again, then add the sugar, 
and boil until the surface looks wrinkled, 
and the liquid jellies on the edge. Skim 
well, and turn into glasses. 

Plum Jelly. 

Put the plums, which may be either dam- 
sons, red, or beach plums, into the preserv- 
ing kettle, with water to cover. Heat slow- 
ly, aud simmer until the plums will mash 
readily, then turn into a flannel jelly-bag, 
and drip until the pulp is dry. 



Boil the juice rapidly twenty minutes, 
skimming often. Eemove it from the fire, 
measure, and return it to the fire; as soon 
as it boils again, add as many bowls of sugar 
as you have of juice, and boil until it jellies, 
which will be fifteen or twenty minutes. 
Pour Into tumblers, and stand aside two or 
three days, then cover with paper, and put 
in a cool, dry place. 

Quince Jelly. 

Take the parings and hard parts round the 
cores, of half a peck of orange quinces, after 
canning the best portions, cover them with 
cold water, and boil slowly several hours ; 
add more water, if needed to keep them cov- 
ered. Turn into a flannel bag, and let them 
drip all night. In the morning, boil the juice 
twenty minutes, and skim well, then strain 
it again through a very fine flannel. Meas- 
ure the juice, and add' to it three-fourths as 
much granulated sugar; put it on to boil 
again, and boll until it jellies on the edge, or 
when turned on to a cold plate. Then skim 
again and turn into' glasses. 



PICKLES. 



Use the best cider vinegar, and, if very 
Sharp, dilute it with one-third water, or it 
will eat up the pickles. 

Alum helps to make the pickles crisp, and 
horseradish and nasturtium-seeds prevent 
the vinegar from becoming mouldy. 

Pickles should be well salted in strong 
brine, or they will be tasteless and insipid. 
Better too much than too little salt, as they 
can be freshened in weak vinegar. 

All kinds of pickles, chow chow, piccalilli, 
etc., will keep with much less care if put in- 
tosmall glass jars, or wide-mouthed bottles, 
and securely sealed. 

If .obliged to keep them in stone jars, in- 
vert a small plate over them to keep them 
under the vinegar. 

Pickled Red Cabbage. 

Procure a firm, good-sized cabbage, and 
after taking off any straggling or decayed 
leaves, cut it in quarters, and then in very 
thin slices. Sprinkle well with salt, and set 
aside for forty -eight hours. Then drain 
off the salt liquor which has formed, and 
pour over the cabbage a well - seasoned 
pickle of boiling hot vinegar. Cover the jars 



until the cabbage- is cold, then fasten tightly. 
Celery and cauliflower may be pickled in 
the same way. If preferred, the cauliflower 
may be cooked in boiling water until tender, 
before putting it in the vinegar. 

Chili Sauce. 

Eighteen ripe tomatoes, six onions, three 
green peppers, one cup of sugar, two cups 
and a half of vinegar, two teaspooufuls of 
salt, one teaspoonful each of cinnamon, all- 
spice, and nutmeg, and half a teaspoonful of 
cloves. Scald and peel the tomatoes, and 
cook with the onions and peppers until 
tender; then add the sugar, vinegar, and 
spices, and cook ten minutes longer. 

Chow Chow. 

One large head of red cabbage, one large 
cauliflower, two quarts each of very small 
string- beans, green tomatoes, cucumbers, 
and silver-skin onions. Cut the cabbage in- 
to quarters, and remove the core, then shave 
in very tliin slices ; break the cauliflower in- 
to flowerets, but leave all the others wliole. 
Mix all together thoroughly, and add one. 
pint of fine salt. Let them stand over night. 



AYER'S SAKSAPARILiLA, the Superior Medicine. 



18 



MAKES THE WEAK STKONG. 




THE SKILLFUL PILOT 

Steers his ship tlirougli all dangers and 
guides her safely to port. So the skillful 
physician pilots his patient through the 
^ perils of sickness 

to perfect health. 
In cases of General 
Debility, so com- 
mon at the present 
day, he recom- 
mends the use of 
r. Ayer's Sarsapa- 
rilla, because of Its 
superior efllcaoy in 
aiding the formar 
tion of pure and 
vigorous blood, 
thereby restoring 
the normal condi- 
tion to every fibre, organ, nerve, and muscle 
of the body. It cures others and will cure 
you. This standard remedy is compounded 
of the best tonics and alteratives known to 
science, and its superior qualities as a blood- 
purifler and invigorator liave stood the test 
of nearly half a century. 

"A few months ago my partner died, and 
the whole burden and' responsibility of a 
large grocery business fell upon me. The 
increased care and hard work so taxed my 
strength that I became all run down, had no 
appetite, was nervous, and suflered from in- 
digestion and 

General Debility. 
The medicines recommended me by my phy- 
sicians did me no more good than so much 
water. Ayer's Sarsaparilla being favorably 
brought to my attention, I tried it, and, in a 
short time, began to feel better. I contin- 
ued to take this medicine for nearly two 
months, at the end of which time I felt like a 
new man. My appetite, energy, and strength 
returned, and my food digested perfectly. I 
am convinced that if I had not taken Ayer's 
Sarsaparilla, instead of being strong and 
well, I should now have been under the 
doctor's care and unable to attend to busi- 
ness. I am a thorough believer in Ayer's 
Sarsaparilla. It is indeed 'the superior 
medicine.' "—William H. Brown, 33 Gorham 
St., Lowell, Mass. 

" I was a great sufferer from a low condi- 
tion of the blood and general debility, be- 
coming, finally, so reduced that I was unfit 



for work. Nothing that I did for the com- 
plaint helped me so much as Ayer's Sarsapa- 
rilla, a few bottles of which restored me to 
health and, strength. I take every opportu- 
nity to recommend this medicine in similar 
cases."— C. Evick, 14 E. Main st, Chillicothe, 
Ohio. 

"I am now 85 years old, and have used vari- 
ous medicines in my life, but never found any- 
thing that helps me so much as Ayer's Sarsa- 
parilla."— J. W. Burdine, P. M., Eidson.Tenn. 

"About four years ago I was taken down 
with nervous prostration. Mind and body 
seemed to have given out together. My head 
was dizzy, my eyes weak, and my feelings 
wretched and despondent in the extreme. 
Doctors prescribed for me, but without avail. 
One day, while looking over Ayer's Almanac, 
I resolved to try the virtue of Ayer's Sarsa- 
parilla. I did so, and before I had finished 
the first bottle, I felt a decided 

Change for the Better. 

I continued the use of this medicine, until 
now I can scarcely believe I ever had been 
sick. My eyes, in particular, are wonderful- 
ly improved, and all those gloomy and de- 
spondent feelings of mind are gone." — Mrs. 
C. Kennedy, 787 Pacific St., Brooklyn, N. Y. 

"About a year ago I began using Ayer's 
Sarsaparilla as a remedy for debility and 
neuralgia resulting from malarial exposure 
in tlie army. I was" in a very bad condition, 
but six bottles of the Sarsaparilla, with oc- 
casional doses of Ayer's Pills, have greatly 
improved my health. I am now able to 
work, and feel that I cannot say too much 
tor your excellent remedies." — F. A. Pink- 
ham, South Moluncus, Me. 

"Ayer's Sarsaparilla has a well-deserved 
reputation, in this locality, for restoring to 
healthy, vigorous action the vital organs of 
the body when they have- become weakened 
or exhausted. I have used it in my family 
for this purpose, especially after the system 
had become depleted from 

Malarial Attacks. 
I have advised its use among my neighbors 
in similar cases, and it has always proved 
invaluable."— C. C. Hamilton, Emberson.Tex. 

"I have used Ayer's Sarsaparilla as a blood- 
purifier for two years, with the most satis- 
factory results. It is the best medicine tor 
that purpose I have ever tried."— Miss A. M. 
Potter, Lake Como, Fla. 



AYER'S HAIR VIGOR — the best Dressing. 



ATER'S PBEaERVH BOOK. 



10 



In th,o morning, rins$ well in cold water, and 
drain. Then add one ounce of white mus- 
tard-seed, one ounce of oelery-seed, and one 
small box of ground mustard. Cover well 
with vinegar, and boil twenty minutes. 
While cooling, mix a quarter ol a pound of 
granulated sugar and one tablespoonluj of 
turmeric, and stir it thoroughly into the 
pioltjes. 

Chutney Sauce. 

Twelve green sour apples, two green pep- 
pers, six green tomatoes, four small onions, 
one cup of raisins, one quart'Of vinegar, two 
tablespoonfuls of mustard-seed, two of salt, 
one of powdered sugar, two cups of brown 
sugar. . , 

Kemove the seeds from the raisins and 
peppers, then add the tomatoes and onions, 
and chop all very fine. Put the vinegar, 
sugar, and spices on to boil, add the chopped 
mixture, and simmer one hour. Then add 
the apples, pared and cored, and cook slow- 
ly until soft. Keep it in small bottles, well 
sealed. 

Cucumber Pickles. 

Two hundred cucumbers, cover with water, 
add a pint of salt. In the morning, drain olt 
the water, take as much vinegar as you had 
of water, one ounce each of whole cloves 
and allspice, and a piece of alum the size of 
a walnut. Heat all together, and pour boil- 
ing hot over the cucumbers. Cover with 
cabbage-leaves. A few green peppers put 
into the brine with the cucumbers is a great 
improvement. 

Spiced Currants. 

To every pound of currants, allow one 
pound of. sugar. Make a syrup in the pro- 
portion p£ four pounds of sugar to one pint 
of vinegar, two teaspoonfuls of cinnamon, 
two of allspice, and one of cloves, half a tea- 
spoonful of mace and halt of salt. When 
boiling, add the currants, and boil twenty 
minutes. Put it into tumblers, and stand 
aside to get cold, then cover with paper. 

Spiced Crape. No. I . 

Eight pounds of grapes, mashed and 
cooked enough to strain out the seeds and 
skins. Bub all the pulp through. Then add 
four pounds of sugar, one quart of vinegar, 
and one tablespoouful each of cinnamon and 
allspice, and two teaspoonfuls of cloves, 
Simmer three hours. 



Spiced Crape. No. 2. 

Put four pounds of ripe grapes on the 
fire, in a granite kettle. Mash them until 
all are broken; add twelve whole cloves, 
twelve allspice, one inch square of stick 
cinnamon, and half as much ginger-root. 
Cook until the grapes are perfectly soft, 
then rub through a sieve; add one pint of 
vinegar, and sugar to taste. Put on to boil 
again, and simmer until thick. 

Sweet Pickied Melons. 

Select cantaloupes, or muskmelons, not 
quite ripe. Cut into oblong pieces, and re- 
move the rind and soft part near the seeds. 
Prepare the spiced pickle in the following 
proportions : to every eight pounds of melon, 
take one pint of vinegar and three pounds of 
sugar. Mix half a teaspoonful each of 
ground mace, and cloves, one teaspoonful 
each of ginger, allspice, and cinnamon. Tie 
this mixture into a small piece of cheese- 
cloth, and boil it with the vinegar. Cook 
the melon carefully in the hot syrup until 
tender, then skim out into a large bowl. 
Boil the liquor down, and pour it over the 
fruit. Eepeat this for three or four times, 
and the last time, heat all together, then 
put into jars, and seal. 

Watermelon Sweet Pickie. 

Follow the same proportions as in the re- 
cipe for cantaloupe, but cook the strips of 
melon first in cle^r water till tender, then 
pour the syrup over them as directed. 

Mustard Pickie. 

One quart each of small whole cucumbers, 
large cucumbers sliced, green tomatoes 
sliced, and small button onions, one large 
cauliflower divided into flowerets, and four 
green peppers cut fine. Make a brine of 
foflr quarts of water and one pint of salt, 
pour it over the mixture of vegetables, and let 
it soalc twenty-four hours. Heat just enough 
to scald it, and turn into a colander to drain. 
Mix one cup of flour, six tablespoonfuls of 
ground mustard, and one tablespoouful of 
turmeric with enougli cold vinegar to make 
a smooth paste, then add one cup of sugar, 
and suCflcient vinegar to make two quarts 
in all. Boil this mixture until it thickens 
and is smooth, stirring all the time, then 
add the vegetables, and cook until well 
heated through. 



AYEB'S SABSAPAKHiLA cures Pimples »nd Blotches. 



20 



HEADACHE AND BILIOUS COMPLAINTS. 




HEADACHES 

Arise from a variety of causes ; but more 
commonly from a deranged stomacli, slug- 
gisli liver, and constipated bowels. Owing 
to peculiar hygienic 
and physical condi- 
tions, women are, 
probably, more fre- 
quent sufferers from 
this distressing com- 
plaint than men. A 
simple but effective 
remedy, always at- 
I hand, is, therefore, 
I desirable. Such a 
remedy is Ayer's 
Pills. They strength- 
en the digestive organs, stimulate the liver, 
and restore the natural, healthful movement 
of the bowels. These organic functions be- 
ing regulated, headache soon disappears. 

Ayer's Pills contain no injurious drug, but 
are compounded of the pure essences of the 
best vegetable aperients. They are sugar- 
coated, easy to talce, mild but thorough in 
operation, and always effective. Leading 
physicians recommend them for Biliousness, 
Heartburn, Dyspepsia, Constipation, Piles,, 
and Jaundice. They relieve Eheumatism 
and Neuralgia, and prove highly beneficial 
in Colds, Fevers, and Chills. Either as a 

Family Medicine, 

or for travelers by land or sea, Ayer's Pills 
are the best. They may be conveyed to any 
part of the world, without fear of losing their 
medicinal value. Every dose effective. 

" I regard Ayer's Pills as one of the most 
reliable general remedies of our times. They 
have been in use in my family for various 
affections requiring a purgative medicine, 
and have given unvarying satisfaction. We 
have found them an excellent remedy for 
colds and light fevers."— W. E. Woodson, 
Fort Worth, Texas. 

"Ayer's Pills are the best medicine I ever 
used. In my judgment no better general 
remedy could be devised. I have used them 
in my family and caused them to be used 
among my friends and employes for more 
than twenty years. To my certain knowl- 
edge many cases of the following complaints 
have been completely and per;nanently cured 
by the use of Ayer's Pills alone : Third-day 
chills, dumb ague, bilious fever, sick head- 



ache, rheumatism, flux,, dyspepsia, constipa- 
tion, and hard colds. I know a moderate 
use of Ayer's Pills, continued for a few days 
or weeks, as the nature of the complaint may 
require, will prove an absolute cure for the 
disorders named above." — J. 0. Wilson, 
Contractor a,nd Builder, Sulphur Springs, 
Texas. 

" I have used Ayer's Pills in my family for 
seven or eight years. Whenever I have an 
attack of headache, to which I am very sub- 
ject, I take a dose of Ayer's Pills and am 
always promptly relieved. I find them 
equally beneficial in colds ; and, in my fam- 
ily, they are used for 

Bilious Complaints 

and other disturbances with such good ef- 
fect that we rarely, if ever, have to call in a 
physician."— H. VoulliemS,- Hotel Voulliemd, 
Saratoga Springs, K. Y. 

"After many years' experience with Ayer's 
Pills, as a remedy for the large number of 
ailments caused by derangements, of the 
liver, peculiar to malarial localities, simple 
justice prompts me to express to you my 
high appreciation of the merits of this medi- 
cine for the class of disorders I have named." 
— S. L. Loughridge, Bryan, Texas. 

"In 1868, by the advice of a friend, I began 
the use of Ayer's Pills as a remedy for bil- 
iousness, high fevers, and colds. They 
served me better than anything I had pre- 
viously tried, and I have used them, with 
excellent effect, in attacks of that sort ever 
since."— H. W. Hersh, Judsonia, Ark. 

"By the use of Ayer's Pills alone, I once 
cured myself permanently of a case of 

Rheumatism 

which had troubled me several months. No 
medicine could have served me in better 
stead. These pills are at once harmless and 
effectual, and, I believe, would prove a spe- 
cific in all cases of incipient rheumatism." — 
Chas. C. Kock, Corner, Avoyelles Parish, La. 
" For a long time I was a sufferer from 
stomach, liver, and kidney troubles, experi- 
encing much difficulty in digestion, with 
severe pains in the lumbar region and other 
parts of the body. Having tried a variety of 
remedies, with only temporary relief, I be- 
gan the use of Ayer's Pills, and now my 
health is restoi-ed."— Manoel Jorge Pereira, 
Oporto, Portugal. 



AYEK'S HAIR VIGOR — the best Hair Grower. 



AYER'S PRESERVE BOOK. 



21 



Pickled Nasturtiums. 

Gather the nasturtium -seeds when they 
are small and green, before the inner kernel 
has become hard. Eemove the stems, and 
let them stand in salted water over night. 
Then freshen in cold water, pack in small 
bottles, and cover with boiling vinegar. 
Sweeten and spice the vinegar if you prefer. 
Use them as a substitute for capers or ijse 
them without pickling in any mixed-pickle 
recipe. 

Pickled Nuts (Butternuts and 
Walnuts). 

Gather them early in the summer, on a hot, 
clear day, when they are tender enough to 
pierce easily with a pin. The large walnuts, 
or shagbarks, which have a thick outer rind, 
are the best for pickling. Lay them in 
strong salt-and-water, half a cup of salt to a 
quart of water, for several days, or until 
tender. Change the water every other day. 
Take them out, and rub them with a coarse 
towel, then put them where the sun will 
shine on them until they are black. Shake 
them occasionally, so they will be uniformly 
colored. If you do not care for the dark 
color, you may put them at once from the 
brine into cold water, for half a day. When 
ready to pickle them, wipe the nuts dry, and 
fill the jars three-fourths full. Take a little 
more than vinegar enough to fill the jars, 
and to every quart allow quarter of a cup of 
brown sugar, twelve cloves, twelve pepper- 
corns, twelve allspice-berries, twelve cassia- 
buds, and one square-inch stick of cinnamon. 
Boil the spices in the vinegar ten minutes, 
then strain, and pour It boiling hot over the 
nuts. Repeat this twice, and, after the last 
time, cover closely, or seal, and put away in 
a cool, dry place. They should stand about a 
month before using. 

Pickled Onions. 

Forpickling, choose the small white onions. 
Pour boiling brine over them two days in 
succession, then drain, place in jars, and 
cover with cold vinegar. 

Sweet Piclded Peaches or Plums. 

If peaches are used, wipe them well to re- 
move the fur. Plums should be pricked in 
several places, to keep them' from cracking. 
Eight pounds of fruit, four pounds of sugar, 
one quart of vinegar, two ounces each of 
whole cloves and stick cinnamon, half an 



ounce of ginger-root. Boil vinegar, sugar, 
and spices together, ten minutes, add-Uie 
peaches, and Just lef them stand a minute or 
two, being careful not to have them boil, or 
become soft. Then pour into a stone jar, 
and in a week pour off the vinegar, and scald 
again. 

Sweet Pickled Pears. 

Ten pounds of Bartlett pears, not quite 
ripe; wipe them, and remove the blossom 
end, then cook them in boiling water until 
tender. Eemove fruit, and strain the wate r ; 
take one quart of this water, add to it one 
quart of vinegar, five pounds of sugar, and 
half a cup of mixed whole cloves, allspice, 
mace, and stick cinnamon. Put it on to boil , 
for half an hour, then add the pears, and 
when well scalded, remove them, and pack 
in glass jars. Boil the syrup down until 
there is enough to cover the fruit; pour it 
over, and seal at once. 

Piccalilli. 

One peck of green tomatoes and one head 
of cabbage chopped fine ; mix with them one 
large cup of salt, put all into a coarse cheese- 
cloth bag, and let it hang and drain over 
night. Then chop six large onions and four 
green peppers, mix them with the tomatoes 
and cabbage, pour over them enough hot, 
weak vinegar to cover and drain again. The 
next morning scald the same amount of good 
sharp vinegar, and pour over them, add two 
tablespoonfuls of whole mustard-seed, and 
when cold it is ready to use. 

Ripe Tomato Cold Pickle. 

Sixteen medium-sized ripe tomatoes, four 
small green peppers, four small onions, all 
chopped fine. Then add one cup of vinegar, 
one cup of sugar, and half a cup of salt. 
Mix thoroughly, and put up cold. 

Creen Tomato Pickle. 

Chop enough green tomatoes to make a 
gallon, sprinkle over them half a cup of salt, 
and the next morning drain and squeeze dry. 
Add one teaspoontul each of cinnamon, 
cloves, whole mustard-seed, and celery-seed. 
Pour on vinegar enough to cover, and boil 
twenty minutes. 

Spiced Creen Tomato Pickle. 

Slice half a peck of green tomatoes,, cover 
with one quart of water in which has been 



AYER'S CHERRY PECTORAIi cures Colds and Coughs. 



22 



'LIVEE, STOMACH, AKD KIDNEYS. 




ATHLETIC SPORTS, 

In which both sexes jpartloipate, Such as 
croquet and laWh-tennis, ate mote com- 
mon than formerly. If judiciously Conduct- 
ed, and not carried 
to an extreme, the 
effect of these open'- 
air recreations must 
prove highly bfenefi- 
(iial. But to procure 
the greatest good, 
■ the athlete Should 

' guard ' against the 
tol'matlou of lactic 
aflid, which is liable 
to be developed by 
any Vlolelit exertion, 
exposure tb ex- 
tremes of heat or cold, damp air, or sud- 
den checks of perSplratibh— the result, later, 
Being rheumatism or neuralgia. 

To this end, the use of Ayer's Sarsaparilla 
is recommended, especially if there should 
be a feeling of languor in the morning, pains 
In the joints, tenderness of the muscles, 
headache, rashes, pimples, or any other un- 
usual symptoms. Taken a few minutes be- 
fore each meal, Ayer's Sarsaparilla improves 
the. appetite and effectually eliminates from 
the blood all deleterious acids and other 
impurities. It tones up {he system, regu- 
lates the liver and kidneys, makes the weak 
strong, cures others, will cure you. 
"For years I was afllicted with terrible 
Palt>itatiOh 
of the heart, which, finally, became compli- 
cated With liver complaint, so that I had 
to give up Work. There being no doctor in 
our place, 1 purchased a bottle 5f Ayer's 
Sarsaparilla of our store-man, Mr. Host- 
mark. Before 1 had used the whole of it, 
I noticed an improvement. I have taken 
two bottles of this medioinS and am in better 
health than I have been for many years." — 
L. Christensen, Poulsbo, Wash. 

" It would be impossible for me to describe 
what I have suffered from indigestion and 
headache for the past three years. I have 
been under the care of various physicians, 
and tried a great many kinds of medicines, 
but never found more than temporary relief 
until I commenced using Ayer's Sarsaparilla 
and Ayer's Pills, After taking these medi- 
eihes for a,, short time my headache disap^- 



peared. My stomach performs Its duties per- 
fectly, and my health has been completely 
restored. "^Mary Harley, Springfield, Mass. 

" Through- the use of Ayer's Sarsaparilla 
by the younger members of my family, I 
believe, and so do they, that their health 
has been improved. It has also made their 
com|llexlon9 clearer through its effect on the 
blood. ^This is the simple truth, and it may 
gratify you to hear it. Toll are at liberty ts 
make what use you please of this letter. I 
have no hesitation in recommending Ayer's 
Sarsaparilla either in public or private."— 
Morris Phillips, Editor J*Ae Home Journal, 
New York City. 

" Last Spring I was afflloted with bilious- 
ness and liver complaint. My tongue was 
thickly coated, my breath was ofleasive, 
food distressed me, I suffered much from 
headache. 

My Skin was Sallow, 

and my bowels were alway^ out of orde*. 
Bleep did not refresh me, nor did the many 
remedies recommended by kind friends in 
the neighborhood, do me any good. A rela^ 
tive from a distant City, happening to Visit 
me, advised nle to Use Ayer's Sarsaparilla, a 
medicine which had cured het' of similar 
troubles. I commenced using it, and my Im' 
provement began almost from the first dose. 
It relieved the distress about my llver, regu- 
lated my bowels, caused food to rest well on 
my stomach, cured my headache, improved 
my complexion, ahd restfited my a£)petlte. 
These results weire aooolaplished by three 
bottles Of Ayer's sarsaparilla. "--Mrs. Lydia 
M. Tarbox, Aitoona, Pa.. 

"About two years ago I received ah injury 
In ^ne of my knees, which resulted in Jay 
becoming so lame from 

Muscular Rheumatism 

that I could not move about without the 
aid of a cane. After sufleflhg for some 
months, being convinced that my blood need- 
ed purifying, I began taking Ayer's Sarsapa- 
rilla, and my lameness was entirely cured." 
—Mrs. 0, Williams, Hardwick, vt. 

" I suffered for eight Weeks from a severe 
paili in the side and back. I tried a bottle 
of Ayer's Sarsaparilla, and, feeling relieved, 
took a Second bottle, which dompletely cured 
me.'' — Louis G. Trauth, lia Pearl street. 
New Orleans. 



AY&R'S SAttSAPARItlA cureA Oeu«ral DebiUtf . 



ATER'S PEESEEVB BOOK. 



23 



dissolved one cup ol salt, and then let it 
stand two hours. Drain through a colander, 
pressing out all the brine. Then add one 
quart of best cider vinegar, one tablespoon- 
lul each, of ground cloves, pepper, allspice, 
mustard, and cinnamon, and one pound of 
best brown sugar. Boil all together ten 
minutes, then simroer about an hour. It is 
ready for the table when cold, and will keep 
indefinitely. 

Uncooked Tomato Pickle. 

Cuj; one peck of green tomatoes In quarter- 
inch slices, sprinkle over them one cup of 
salt, and let them stand twenty-foui hours. 
Then drain very dry. Slice twelve small 
onions thin. Mix one small bottle of pre- 
pared mustard, two tablespoonfuls of ground 
cloves, one tablespoonful of ground pepper, 
and one of allspice. Then into the jar in 
which the pickle is to be kept, put alternate 
layers of tomato, spice, and onions, until all 
Is packed. Cover with cold vinegar, and let 
them stand until the tomato looks quite clear, 
when they are ready for use. 

Cold Catsup. 

Feel and chop fine half a peck of ripe, 
sound tomatoes. Grate two roots of horse- 
radish, and chop fine one cup of onions. 
Mix all well, and add one cup of salt. 
Braise half a cup each, of black and white 
mustard-seed in a mortar, and mix with them 
two teaspoonfuls of black and one of red 
pepper, one tablespoonful each, of mace and 
cinnamon, and two teaspoonfuls of cloves, 
one cup of sugar, and one quart of vinegar. 
Mix all these ingredients very thoroughly, 
and put it into jars. 

Currant Catsup. 

Ten pounds of currants, mashed, and 
strained through a cloth. Add one quart of 
vinegar, five pounds of granulated sugar, 
three tablespoonfuls of cinnamon, two of 
allspice, and one each of cloves and salt, 
and one half teaspoonful of red pepper. 
BoiLslowly one hour, and put it up in small 
bottles. 

Crap6 Catsup. 

Five pounds of "grapes, mashed, stewed, 
and rubbgd through a strainer. Then add 
one pint of vinegar, three pounds of sugar. 



one tablespoonful of ground allspice, one 
teaspoonful each of ground cloves, cinna- 
mon, and black pepper, and half a teaspoon- 
ful of salt. Boil all together until thick. 

Tomato Catsup. No. I . 

One peck of ripe tomatoes, four large 
onions sliced, three-fourths of a cup of salt, 
three tablespoonfuls of black pepper, one 
tablespoonful of red pepper, one tablespoon- 
ful of allspice, half a tablespoonful of cloves. 
Mix all together, and stew them until very 
soft, about two hours. Just before taking 
from the flre, add one quart of vinegar, and 
rub through a colander. Put on to boil again, 
then seal at once. 

Tomato Catsup. No. 2. 

Stew the tomatoes until soft, then to every 
gallon of stewed tomatoes add one-fourth of 
a pound of salt, one-fourth of an ounce each, 
'of red pepper, pimento, and garlic, one half 
of an ounce of ginger -root and of cloves. 
Stew all together until reduced enough to 
pour easily, then strain Into bottles, and seal 
with wax. 

Walnut Catsup. 

Half a peck of green walnuts or butternuts 
gathered when soft enough to bruise easily. 
Put them Into a stone jar, and pound them 
with a mallet. Sprinkle over them one cup 
of salt, and add vinegar enough to cover. 
Every day for a week bruise or pound and 
stir them thoroughly, and then strain through 
a fine strainer, pressing well until the nuts 
are dry. Flavor the liquid with one table- 
spoonful each of whole cloves, cassia-buds, 
pepper-corns, and celery-seed, one square 
inch of ginger -root and Ijorseradish-root, 
half a nutmeg broken fine, one clove of gar- 
lic, or one small onion cdt fine, and quarter 
of a teaspoonful of cayenne. Boil all to- 
gether slowly for half an hour, then strain 
through a fine cloth, and when cold, bottle it, 
and seal. 

To Seal Bottles With Wax. 

Melt eight ounces of beeswax and four 
ounces of rosin In a tin pail placed on the 
back of the range. Stir until well mixed. 
Put the corks in the bottles, and press firmly, 
then invert the top of the bottle in the hot 
liquid. 



AYEB'S CATHARTIC PILLS cure Sick Headache. 



21 



THE BEST FAMILY PHYSIO, 




AVER'S PILLS, 

For the cure o£ stomacli, liver, and bowel 

troubles, have long been the most popular 

pill in pharmacy. As an all-round family 

medicine, it has no 

equal. 

" I would like to 
add my testimony 
to that of others 
who have used 
Ayer's Pills, and to 
I s a y that I have 
taken them for 
many years, and 
always derived the 
best results from 
their use. For stom- 
ach andnver trou- 
bles, and for the cure of headache, caused by 
these derangements, Ayer's Pills cannot be 
equaled. When my friends ask me what is- 
' the best remedy for disorders of the stomach, 
liver, or bo~wels, my invariable answer is, 
Ayer's Pills. Taken in season, they will 
break up a cold, prevent la grippe, check 
fever, and regulate the digestive organs. 
They are 

Easy to Take, ' 

and are, indeed, the best, all-round family 
medicine I. have ever known." — Mrs. May 
Johnson, 368 Eider Ave., New York City. 

" Last Summer, I had a very severe bilious 
at'tack. In the morniug, I felt as well as 
usual ; but just after noon I was seized with 
cramps and pains in my bowels, which were 
severe enough to cause me to faint. I went 
to bed, and after two hours of torture, I 
began taking Ayer's Pills, two at a time 
every hour. In about four hours, I began to 
feel easier, and at midnight went to sleep. 
, J The next morning, though veiy sore, I was 
able to resume my ordinary work ; but a dose 
of Ayer's Pills for the three following nights 
entirely removed the trouble and restored 
the regular action of the bowels." — J. H. 
Stannard, Clinton, Conn. 

" Some time since, I had a severe bowel 
trouble, which the physicians said was caused 
by a disordered liver. When I walked, the 
slightest jar caused me intense pain and 
suffering. Being recommended Ayer's Pills 
I took them, and, in a short time, ray bowels 
were restored to their natural condition. I 



firmly believe these pills saved my life."— 
A. A. Cromwell, Lead Hill, Ark. 

"I was troubled a long time with sick head- 
ache. It was usually accompanied with 
severe pains in the temples, a sense of full- 
ness and tenderness in one eye, a bad taste 
m my mouth, tongue coated, hands and feet 
cold, and sickness at the stomach. I tried a 
good many remedies recommended for this 
complaint ; but it was not until I began taking 
Ayer's Pills that I received anything like 
permanent benefit. A single box of these 
pills did the work for me, a^id I am now free 
from headaches and a well man."— Charles 
H. Hutohings, East Auburn, Me. 

"This is to certify that I am 57 years old 
and have used Ayer's Pills for 25 years with 
the 

Most Beneficial Effect. 

In early life, I was troubled wit^i malaria, eos- 
tiveness, and attendant ills ; but for the last 
fifteen years, I have enjoyed almost perfect 
health, which I ascribe to the faithful use of 
these pills. I keep a box in my ofhce and 
anotlier in my bed-chamber, never take but 
one at a time, but do so at any hour of the day 
or night, and under alt circumstances. I take 
Ayer's Pill^for headache, pains in the stom- 
ach and bowlls, colds, sore throat, diarrhoea, 
costiveness, rheumatism, that tired feeling, 
and all other ills to which I am subject. I 
use from four to five boxes a year, and that 
is 'the amount of my 'doctoring' for several 
years. I heartily recommend the use of 
Ayer's Pills for the complaints above 
specified." — A. Pease, late county judge, 
Sidney, Neb. 

"I don't believe there ever was so good a 
piirmade as Ayer's Cathartic Pills. They 
will do 

All You Recommend « 

them for and even more. When I have a cold 
and ache from head to heels, a dose or two 
of these pills is all the medicine needed to 
set me right again. For headache, they never 
fail. I have been a victim of terrible head- 
aches, and have never found anything to re- 
lieve them so quickly as Ayer's Pills. Since I 
began taking this medicine, the attacks haye 
been less and less frequent, until, '&t present, 
months have passed since I have had one." 
— L. Newman, Dug Spur, Va. 



THE DOLL BKIDB. See Page 32. 



AYBR'S PRESERVE BOOK. 



25 



SUPPLEMENTARY. 



The demand for Ayer's Preserve 
Book being so extensive, we now 
print a new edition, revised and en- 
larged, adding the following tested 
recipes : 

Canned Porter Apples. 

Allow half a cup of sugar, and one cup of 
water, to every pound of apple. Pare, quar- 
ter, and core tlie apples, and cook them 
carefully, ii few at a time, in boiling water, 
untilteiKler, but not soft enough to break. 
Put them in the jars, which should be near 
by in a pan of hot water. When all are 
cooked, carefully pour back into the kettle 
all the juice which has drained from the ap- 
ples. Strain this water and put it on to 
boil again with the sugar, adding more, if 
needed, to make the right proportion for the 
sugar. Boil and skim thoroughly. Then fill 
the jars to overflowing with the boiling syrup; 
and seal at once. 

Canned Apricots. 

Wipe the fruit, cut in halves, and remove 
the stones. Weigh, and allow quarter of a 
pound of sugar to each pound of|(('ult. Make 
a syrup with as little water as possible, and 
when boiling, skim well, then put in the fruit 
and let it boil up once. Drain them from the 
syruf , put into the jars, and fill to overflow- 
ing with the boiling syrup. If the fruit is 
hard and green, it should be cooked a little 
longer, but never allowed to boil rapidly. 
As the skin is thin the fruit need not be pared. 

Apricot IVIarmalade. 

Use the canned apricots, which can be 
found at any grocery. Turn them from the 
c^ and rub them througli a sieve, then put 
on the fire and boil until reduced one-half. 
Add sugarto taste, and boil again until thick. 
Turn into small jars and cover with paper. 

Barberry Preserve with Pears, 



Stew two quarts of barberries (after care- 
fully picking them over), in water enough to 
co\ier them, for half an hoiu-. Mash them' 
until all are broken, then drain through 
cheese-cloth. Make a syrup with this bar- 
berry water and five pounds of sugar. Boil 

AYER'S CHERRY PECTOR AL — f or Throat and Lungs 



and skim well. Have ten pounds pf any hard 
pears, pared and cut in small slices. Cook 
them in the syrup luitil transparent, then put 
into jars. Boil tlie syrup until reduced 
enough to cover the fruit, strain it, fill the 
jars, and seal. 

Citron Preserve. 

Cut the citron in slices one inch thick, be- 
ginning at the stem end, tlieu remo.ve the 
rind and seeds, and cut each into several 
uniform pieces. Soak it over liightin strongly 
salted water. In the morning soak in cold 
water and change the water until the citron 
is freshened. ' Then parboil it, ten minutes, 
in water with a teaspoonful of alum. Drain 
and weigh the fruit, and to every two pounds 
of fruit, allow a pound and a half of sugar, 
halt a lemon, and hall an ounce of preserved 
or candied ginger. Make a syrnp with one 
pint of water to each pouud of sugar. Boil 
and skim it. Then add the citron and sim- 
mer until it is clear and tender. Drain the 
fruit from the syrup and put it on large 
plates to harden. The next morning cut the 
lemon in thin slices and cook it in water to 
cover until tender. Put the syrup oil to boil 
again, and when the lemon is tender put it 
into the syrup, add the water also, if not 
bitter, then the ginger cut in thin pieces, and 
the citron. Boll gently, long enough to thor- 
oughly heat the citron, then put at once into 
jars and seal. 

Canned Quinces. 

Weigh the quinces after they are pared, 
quartered, and cored. Take three-fourths of 
a pound of sugar to every pound of fruit. 
Cook the quinces in boiling water until soft, 
then take them out into a dish, and add the 
sugar to the water in which they have been 
cooked. Skim well, and boil until clear, 
then add the quinces, and when well heated 
through, drain them from the syrup and put 
carefully into the jars. Boil the syrup ten 
minutes longer, skim or strain it. If not clear, 
then fill the jars to overflowing, and seal at 
once. 

Whole Pears, Canned. 

Kemove the peel, leaving the stems on as 
many Jlrm, ripe Bartlett or Sheldon pears as 
yon wish to can. Make a thin syrup in the 
proportion of about half a pound of sugar to 
a pint of water, or with even less sugar, it 
this syrup is too sweet. Boil the pears in the 
syi-up until soft enough to easily pierce with 



26 



THE GKEAT HOUSEHOLD REMEDY. 




EVERY HOUSEHOLD 

Should be provided with Ayer's Cherry Pec- 
toral, the prompt use of which has saved 
Innumerable lives. Not only does it give 
immediate relief 
In ordinary colds 
and coughs, but 
in bronchitis, 
pneumonia, c a - 
tarrh, whooping 
' cough, croup, 
asthma, and la 
grippe, the won- 
derful efflcacy of 
, this medicine has 
I been proved over 
I and over again. 

' In 1866, my 
wife had ah attack of catarrhal fever, which 
being poorly treated, settled on her lungs 
and rapidly developed into what her physi- 
cians pronounced consumption. The disease 
progressed, with the typical symptoms of that 
dread destroyer of human life, until her rela- 
tives aijd friends, including the physicians, 
concluded that the seal of death was upon 
her, and that all that could be done for her 
was to make the brief period of her life as 
pleasant as possible. But I had foreseen this 
conclusion from the beginning, because I had 
seen it repeated so often in like cases, and 
instead of relying upon the skill of physi- 
cians, I sought an auxiliary treatment upon 
which, if it answered no other purpose, would 
afford me 

A Ray of Hope, 

however feeble, and by accident, I decided 
upon the use of Ayer's Cherry Fectoral.. Soon 
after my wife began taking this preparation, 
she declared that it gave her more relief than 
anything else she had taken. From my 
observations of similar cases, I dared not 
hope that this seemingly beneficial effect 
was more than temporary; but I persisted in 
the use of the Pectoral, and in a few months 
the progress of the disease seemed to be 
checked. In a few more months, there was 
a marked improvement, the cough ceased, 
she regained her lost flesh, and was restored 
to perfect health. In all, she used about a 
hundred bottles, extending over a period of 
at least Ave years. Her physical vigor has 
enabled her to discharge her domestic duties 
and raise eight healthy children, her baby 



being now eleven years of age. These facts 
are well known to many of the leading citi- 
zens of MoMinn and Polk counties, Tenn."— 
J. A. Turley, Athens, Tenn. ' 

■' About two years ago, I suffered severely 
from asthma, for which I tried a great many 
remedies, one of which cost me four dollars 
a bottle, and afforded me but very little re- 
lief. Hearing of a neighbor who had been 
greatly benefited by the use of Ayer's Cherry 
Pectoral for i like complaint, I resolved to 
try it, and it has done me more good than 
anything I have ever taken. It gave me 

Relief from the Start, 

and since then, I have used it with equal 
success among my children for whoopimj 
cough. I would not be without it in the 
house."— Mrs. S. F.Koberts, Oak Level, Ala, 

" Two winters ago, I had the grippe, and 
it left me with a most distressing and persist- 
ent cough. My family physician prescribed 
for me, changing medicines as often as he 
found the tilings I had taken were not help- , 
ing me ; but in spite of his attendance, I got 
no better. Finally, ray husband, — reading 
one day of a, gentleman who liad had the 
grippe and was cured by taking Ayer's 
Cherry Pectoral,— procured, for me, a bottle 
of this medicine, and before I had taken halt 
of it, I was cured. I have used the Pectoral 
for my children and in my family, whenever 
we have needed it, and have found it a spe- 
cific for colds, coughs, and lung troubles."— 
Emily Wood, North Street, Elkton, Md. 

" Several years ago, while in Fort Snelling, 
Minn., I caught a severe cold, attended with 
a terrible cough that allowed me no 'rest day , 
or night. The doctors, after working over 
me to the best of their ability, pronounced 
my case hopeless, and said they could do no 
more for me. A friend, in a neighboring 
town, learning of mytrouble, sent me a bottle 
of Ayer's Cherry Pectoral, with the assurance 
tliat if anything could help me. 

That Medicine Would. 

I began to take it, and very soon I was 
greatly relieved, and, by the time I had used 
the whole bottle, I was completely cured. I 
have never bad much of a cough since that 
time, and I fli-mly believe that Ayer's Cherry 
Pectoral saved my life." — W. H. Ward, 
8 Quimby Avenue, Lowell, Mass. ' 



AYER'S PILLS — the Best Family Physic, 



.1 



AYEE'S PRESERVE BOOK. 



27 



a Broom straw. Y/hile boiling liot, carefully 
place the peal's in the jars, stems downward, 
so arranged that there shall be little or no 
space between the pears. Fill to overflowing 
with the hot syrup, and seal. 

Preserved Figs. 

The weight of ripe figs in sugar, peel of one 
lemon and juice ot two, a little ginger ; cover 
the figs with cold water for twelve hours, 
then simmer in water enough to cover them 
until tender, and spread on a sieve to cool 
and harden. Make a syrup of the sugar and 
a cup ot cold' water for every pound. Boil 
until clear of scum; put in figs and simmer 
ten minute ; take theih out and spread upon 
dishes in the sun. Add the lemons and gin- 
ger ; boil the syrup thick, give the figs another 
boil of fifteen minutes, and fill the jars three- 
quarters full. Fill up witli boiling syrup, 
cover, and when cold seal up, 

Canned Rhubarb, Not Cooked. 

Cut the stalks of freshly gathered rhubarb 
into cubes ah inch square, stringing as for 
coolting. Pack closely in pint jars, fill to 
oveiHowing with cold water, seal and set 
away in a dark, cool closet. When needed 
for use, stew in the water which has pre- 
served it. It is as delicious as if freshly 
gathered frotn the garden. 

Orange Preserves. 

Slice Very thin one ioien Messina oranges, 
and put with them the juice of two lemons ; 
measure them, and add sutBolent water to 
make three and a half quarts, and let it stand 
over night. In the morning put it on the 
Are, cover, and boil until soft, then add five 
pounds of sugar and boll for about three- 
quartets of an hour or until the oranges are 
clear. 

Preserved Lemon Peel. 

Let some fresh lemon peels soak in cold 
water until the white pulp can be scraped 
oft, then boil them until soft, and preserve 
them in half their weight in sugar ; use as a 
substitute for citron. 

Orange and Banana Jelly. 

Make a pint of orange jftUy. A simple way 
is to buy a little cake of stiff orange jelly for 
sale at grocery stores, which, with the addi- 
tion of a pint of boiling water, makes it the 



right consistency, and to it add the juice of a 
large orange and the pulp, with all the skin 
removed from it, of two and one-half oranges. 
Slice three bananas into the jelly, pour into 
moulds, and set away to stiffen and get very 
cold; whip up one-half pint sweet cream, 
sweeten it, flavor with about eight drops of 
vanilla. Turn the jelly into a dish, keep the 
cream about it and serve. 

Coffee Jelly. 

Put seven table-spoonfuls of freshly ground 
ooflee into the coffee-pot, and mix into it Ilia 
white of an egg and half a cup of Cold Water. 
Put the pot on the fire and add a quart of 
boiling water; beat up for a minute, then 
cover and let boil for twenty minutes, stirring 
now and then. Set oft the stove, potu' in half 
a cup ot cold water and let the coffee settle. 
in the meantime let half a box, or one ounce, 
of gelatine soak in one-half a cup of cold 
water or coffee for two hours; when the 
coffee is settled, add to it the gelatine and 
stir until the latter is thoroughly dissolved, 
sweeten to taste, pour into a quart bowl and 
set away to stiffen. Serve very told in 
a glass dish, with whipped cream heaped 
about it. 

Yellow Jelly. 

Put an ounce of gelatine to soalc in half a 
pint of water for an hour. Heat two cupfuls 
milk, add the gelatine, the beaten yolks of 
three eggs, a cupful of sugar and flavoring 
of vanilla. Boil it well, take.from fire, whip 
Up very stiff the whites of the eggs, beat thgm 
into the jelly and poUr into moulds to stiflBh. 
Serve with thin boiled custard or sweet 
cream. 

Strawberry Jelly. 

Mash one quart strawberries to a pulp, and 
strain through coarse muslin. Mix one cup 
of sugar and the juice of one lemon with 
two-thirds of a package of gelatine that 
has soaked in one cup of cold water tor 
an hour; stir well and pour over this one 
pint of Boiling water. Stir until dissolved, 
then put into glasses and Seal. 

Calf's-foot Jelly, for Invalids. 

Boil eight calves' feet in just enough water 
to keep them well covered until the water 
becomes a jelly, then remove the feet, and 
add to the jelly one pound white sugar, one 
quart pott Wine, the whites and shells of two 



CHILDREN'S DELIGHT. See Pagfe 32. 



28 



SPECIFIC FOR DEBILITY. 




THOUSANDS OF PEOPLE 

Who suffer from debility and otiier com- 
plaints, and are unatiie to procure reiief 
from tonics, stimulants, or any of the ordi- 
nary medicines pre- 
scribed by physicians, 
will find, in Ayer's Sar- 
saparilla, just the rem- 
edy they need. Health 
and strength being 
once more assured, 
they gi-atefully testify 
in terms like the fol- 
lowing; 

" About eight" years 
ago, I became com- 
pletely prostrated, and 
for two years my health 
was so bad that the 
physicians supposed I 
was going into a decline. There were two 
weeks that I had not eaten anything, and no 
one supposed I should live. Being induced by 
a newspaper advertisement to try Ayer's Sar- 
sapavilla, I began taking it in very small 
dpses at first, arid soon I commenced to feel 
better and call for 

Something to Eat. 

My-triends were surprised at the change in 
my condition, as I improved rapidly, gaining 
both in strength and 'flesh. I never weighed 
over one hundred and five pounds, eVen be- 
fore I was taken sick ; but now my weight is 
one hundred and thirty-five pounds and I 
am perfectly well and hearty." — Mrs. L. T. 
Thompson, Washington, Ga. 

"This is to certify that my wife was an 
invalid for five years, most of that time being 
so weak and feeble as to be unable to walk 
across the floor without assistance. After 
spending more than two hundred dollars for 
the services of the best physicians in our 
section, but without doing her any good, I 
was induced by a friend, to try Ayer's Sarsa- 
parilla. Finding almost immediate benefit, 
she persisted till she used fourteen bottles, 
when her health and strength were fully 
restored."-^B. F. Trautman, Pierce, Pa. 

" About a year ago, a young woman in my 
vicinity, who was supposed to be suffering 
from consumption, bought from me a bottle 
of Ayer's Sarsaparilla. It did her so much 
good that she tried another, and about that 



time, moved out of our neighborhood, so that 
I did not hear from her until a few weeks 
ago, when I learned $hat she was cured and 
attributed her recovery to Ayer's Sarsapa- 
rilla."— Isaac Eainey, general merchant. 
Barley, Va. 

"My daughter, who Is about sixteen years 
of age, had, for a long time, been troubled 
with violent headaches and insomnia. She 
was pale, had no appetite, and losing flesh 
rapidly. She took various remedies, but re- 
ceived no benefit, until she commenced the 
use of Ayer's Sarsaparilla. After taking 
about half a bottle, she 

Began to Feel Better, 

and continuing to talce this medicine, her 
appetite was restored, her cheeks filled out, 
and their natural color returned. She soon 
gained in strength, her headaclies disap- 
peared, she slept better, and how she says 
she feels like a new person. Ayer's Sarsapa- 
rilla has done more for my daughter than I 
ever supposed was in the power of a remedy, 
and I believe it has no equal as a Spring 
remedy."— F. P. Coggeshall, 6 Lyon Street, 
Lowell, Mass. 

" I believe in the healing virtues of Ayer's 
Sarsaparilla, because it has helped me. I 
have been troubled for years with indiges- 
tion, and this medicine has done a great deal 
towards restoring my health and strength. 
]yfy appetite is better and I sleep more since 
I began to take it. I had been atdieted with 
kidney trouble for five years. I have taken 
only four bottles and I know 

It Has Ciired Me. 

It gives me great pleasure to recommend it 
to those who are afflicted in like manner."— 
(Rev.) Hugh Montgomery, pastor of Central 
M. E. Church, Lowell, Mass. 

"For the benefit of other sufferers, I would 
say that Ayer's Sarsaparilla is the best rem- 
edy 1 ever used for tlie cure of indigestion." 
— Mrs. S. Cummings, 78 Somerset Avenue, 
Taunton, Mass. 

"My little girl was afflicted with eczema. 
She suffered very much from itching sores on 
her head, face, hands,, and body. Physicians 
worked on her tor some twelve months, with- 
out benefiting her. I at last tried Ayer's 
Sarsaparilla, two bottles of which cured 
her."— C. L. Wood, merchant, Fentress, Va. 



AYER'S the only Sarsaparilla at the World's Fair. 



AYER'S PRESERVE BOOK. 



29 



eggs; let It boil for four or live minutes, pass 
through a jelly-bag, then place in moulds. 

Chicken Jelly. 

Half a raw chicken, pounded with a mallet, 
bones and meat together, plenty of cold water 
to cover it well— about a quart. Heat slowly 
in a covered vessel, and let it simmer until 
the meat is in wlilte rags and the liquid 
reduced one -half. Strain and press, first 
tlirough a colander, then through a coarse 
cloth. Salt to taste, and pepper if you think 
best; return to the fire, and simmer five min- 
utes longer. Skim when cool. Serve cold- 
just from the ice. You can make into sand- 
wiches by. putting the jelly between thin 
sUces of bread spread lightly with butter. 

Wine or Cider Jelly, for Invalids. 

Three cups sugar, one cup cold water, 
one package of gelatine, juice of three 
lemons and grated peel of one, one quart 
boiling water, two or three bits of cinnamon 
bark. Soak gelatine in cold water one hour, 
add to this the lemons, sugar, and cinnamon, 
pour over all one quart boiling water, put in 
one pint sherry wine or one pint of cider. 

Orange Jelly. 

Use two lemons and the grated peel of two 
oranges, juice of four oranges, sugar and 
gelatine as in wine jelly. 

Lemon Jelly with Banana. 

Make some lemon jelly, using three lemons, 
a cupful of sugar to half a box of gelatine. 
Let it 'get a little stiff. Peel and slice quite 
thin some fine, solid bananas. Pour a layer 
of jelly in a mould, then put in layer of 
bananas, then another of jelly and so on 
until the mould is full. Let it stiffen and 
serve in a bed of stiffly whipped cream. 

Strawberry Jam. 

Put the strawberries in a preserving kettle 
and boil fifteen or twenty minutes, skim- 
ming as the scum rises. Then add the sugar, 
allowing three-quarters of a pound of sugar 
to a pound of fruit. Boil thirty minutes 
longer, stirring constantly ; when done pour 
in jars or jelly-glasses, and when cold seal up. 

Apple Marmalade. 

Peel your apples ; scald them till they come 
easily from the core; weigh your apples, 
and allow an equal weight of sugar. Damp 



skimming carefully until it is a thick syrup. 
Put in the apple-pulp (rejecting the core), 
and boil quickly for fifteen minutes, adding 
six cloves and tlie grated rind of a lemon; 
take out the cloves before you fill your jars. 

Picklette. 

Four large, crisp cabbages, cut flue; one 
quart onions chopped fine ; two quarts vine- 
gar, or enough to cover the cabbage; two 
pounds brown sugar; two tablespoonfuls 
ground mustard; two tablespoonfuls black 
pepper; two tablespoonfuls cinnamon; two 
tablespoonfuls turmeric ; two tablespoonfuls 
celery-seed; one tablespoonful allspice; one 
tablespoonlul mace; one tablespoonful alum, 
pulverized. Pack the cabbage and onions 
jn alternate layers, with a little salt between 
them. Let them stand until next day. Then 
scald the vinegar, sugar, and spices together, 
and pour over the cabbage and onion. Do 
this three mornings in succession. On the 
fourth put all together over the fire and heat 
to a boil. Let them boil five minutes. When 
cold, pack in small jars. It is fit for use as 
soon as cool, but keeps well. 

Sweet Tomato Pickle. 

(Very Good.) Seven pounds ripe tomatoes, 
peeled and sliced ; three and one-half pounds 
sugar, one ounce cinnamon and mace mixed, 
one ounce cloves, one quart of vinegar. Mix 
all together and stew one hour. 

Mixed Pickle. 

Take one pound ginger-root and one-half 
pound garlic (both previously salted and 
dried); two gallons vinegar ; one half-ounce 
turmeric; and one-quarter pound long pep- 
per. Digest together two or three days near 
the fire in a stone jar; or gently simmer 
them in a pipkin or enameled saucepan. 
Then put in almost any vegetables except' 
red cabbage and walnuts, all previously 
salted and dried. 

Preserved Orange Peel. 

( Very Nice.) Weigh the oranges whole and 
allow pound for pound. Peel the oranges 
neatly and cut the rkid into narrow shreds. 
Boil until tender, changing the water twice, 
and replenishing with hot from the kettle. 
Squeeze the strained juice of the oranges 
over the sugar ; let this heat to a boil ; put in 
the shreds and boil twenty minutes. Lemon 



the Sugar with a little water and then boil it; 

AYER'S PILLS, Highest Awards at World's Fair, 1893. 



30 



MEDAL AND DIPLOMA AT CHICAGO. 



At the World's Fair. 

Atek's Medicines, the Only Pbepara- 
TioNs OF THE Kind Admitted. 




The admissiou of Ayer's Sarsaparilla at 
the World's Columbian Exposition, Chicago, 
1893, to the exclusion of all other prepara- 
tions of this class, 
gave emphasis of the 
strongest kind to the 
I popular indorsement 
of this wonderful 
hlood - purifier. By 
this action the 
"World's Fair com- 
mittee, composed of 
scientific men, have in substance said: 

1. Ayer's Sarsaparilla la not only the best 
and leads all other blood-purifiers in point of 
medicinal value, but it is an established fact, 
not an experiment. It is an efficacious rem- 
edy, a Sarsaparilla that cures. 

a. It is a scientific preparation, and the 
only remedy of the kind worthy the indorse- 
ment of the World's Columbian Commission, 
and, at the same time, entitled to public 
confidence. 

When it is understood that the rule for- 
bidding the exhibition of patent medicines, 
was so rigidly enforced as to keep out all 
such, despite the most determined efforts of 
their manufacturers to obtain exhibition 
privileges at all hazards, it will be readily 
seen that Ayer's Sarsaparilla leads all other 
similar preparations in America. 

Its Best Recommendation. 

It is in the action of Ayer's Sarsaparilla it- 
self that we find its best recommendation. 
It always commands, from those who have 
taken it, words of highest praise. 

Its record of permanent cures of diseases 
.wUich have baffled the skill of most learned 
and skillful physicians, has never been ap- 
proached by any other medicine. It an- 
swers, better than any other remedy, all the 
requirements of a Standard Family Medicine. 
It continually increases in sale, and be- 
comes, each year, more and more popular. 

It vitalizes the life-current as no other 
remedy can; It dispels all baneful humors 
from the system; it invigorates and gives 
tone to the various organs, and enables them 
to perform faithfully the duties upon which 
the machinery of life depends ; it strikes at 
theroot of disease by removing the cause. 



assists nature to repair her losses, and thus 
induces permanent restoration to health. 

Ayer's Sarsaparilla is, in every sense, a 
blood-purifier. If you suffer from scrofula, 
dyspepsia, rheumatism, liver, or kidney 
complaint, loss of vitality, sleeplessness, 
that tired feeling, emaciation, or any other 
ailment originating in impure blood, take 
Ayer's Sarsaparilla, and take it now. . It has 
cured others, and it will cure you. 

Medal and diploma were also awarded 
Ayer's Cherry Pectoral and Ayer's Pills. 

Ayer's Cherry Pectoral, for the relief and 
cure of colds, coughs, bronchitis, la, grippe, 
hoarseness, asthma, croup, and ijU diseases 
of .the throat and lungs. The most success- 
ful remedy for consumption, in its early ■ 
stages. 

Ayer's Pills, the best of all remedies for 
constipation, biliousness, sick headache, in- 
digestion, dizziness, and all disorders of the 
Stomach, Liver, and Bowels. 



Nine Good Reasons 

Why Ayer's Sarsaparilla should be taken in 

preference to any other blood-purifier : 

1st. The drugs from which it is' made are 
the most carefully selected and the best 
that money can buy. 

2nd. These drugs are so nicely combined, 
and in such scientific proportions, that 
they may always be depended upon lor 
successful results. 

3rd. It Is a powerful concentrated extract, 
requiring only a teaspoonful for the 
largest dose. 

4th. It is perfectly safe for either young 
or old, for the most delicate or the most 
robust. 

5th. It will act upon the ,blood more health- 
fijUy and speedily than any other blood- 
purifier. 

6th. It cures by removing the conditions 
which malce sickness possible, and cures 
permanently. 

7th, This remedy has a well-kno^n scien- 
tific value and its formula Is familiar to 
professional men. 

8th. It has been before the public for half a 
centui-y. Druggists and physicians recom- 
mend it, and employ it in tlieir practice. 

9th. It was the only Sarsaparilla admitted 
at the Wqrld's Fair. It stands first. It 
leads all other blood-purifiers. 



AYER'S CHERRY PECTORAL— the Best Expectorant. 



AYER'S PEESERVE BOOK. 



3X 



peel can be preserved in tlie same way, 
allowing more sugar. 

Pickled Cherries. 

Five pounds of cherries, stoned or not ; one 
quart of vinegar, two pounds of sugar, one- 
half ounce of cinnamon, one-half ounce of 
cloves, one-half ounce of mace; toil the 
sugar and vinegar and spices together (grind 
the spices and tie them in a muslin hag), and 
pour hot over the cherries, and can. 

Mangoes. 

These are made from small, green water 
or muskmelons, green tomatoes, peppers, 
peaches, large cucumbers, or any fruit from 
which the seeds, stone, or inside portion can 
be removed, the cavity filled with a highly- 
seasoned mixture, and the opening closed 
again In such a way as to give the appear- 
ance of whole fruit. In using peppers and 
green tomatoes, cut a circular piece from the 
stem end, remove the seeds and put the pieces 
in place again, or beside the one from which 
they were taken. It melons are used, cut 
out a piece one inch wide and three long, 
then scoop out the seeds and soft portion. 
When the fruit is prepared, let it soak over 
night in strongly-salted water. In the morn- 
ing drain and he careful to have the cut 
portions kept where tliey belong. Prepare 
the following mixture to use as stufttng: 
Chop enough firm, white cabbage to fill the 
cavities, it is impossible to give the exact 
amount. You may use with it, if you prefer, 
one-fourth part of chopped celery, or green 
tomatoes, or cucumbers. Sprinkle well with 
salt and let it stand two hours. Allow one 
small onion, two or three nasturtium-seeds, 
and half a teaspoonful of whole mustard- 
seed to each pint of chopped vegetables. 
Season to taste with ground cloves, cinna- 
mon, allspice, ginger, pepper, and salt. Mix 
thoroughly, and then fill the cavities ; press 
it in well, fit in the pieces that were removed, 
and then tie them firmly with fine twine. Put 
the mangoes in a preserving kettle, cover 
with cold vinegar and let them remain over 
night. The next morning heat all together 
and simmer gently half an hour. Take them 
out carefully and put in a stone jar and cover 
with cold vinegar. The next morning pour 
ofE the vinegar, add half a cup of sugar to 
each quart of vinegar, bring to a boll, and 
pour it over the mangoes. Eepeat this for 
three or four mornings, and after the last 



scalding, cover when cool, and put away in a 
dry plac'e. The latter part ol this process 
applies only to mangoes made from melons 
and cucumbers. Pepper and tomato man- 
goes are simply covered with cold vinegar 
alter stuffing, then put away and in a month 
they will be ready for the table. 

Pickled Cauliflower. 

Two cauliflowers, cut up ; one pint of small 
onions, three medium -sized red peppers. 
Dissolve half a pint of salt in water enough 
to cover the vegetables, and let these stand 
over night. In the morning drain therd. 
Heat two quarts of vinegar with four table- 
spoonJuls of mustard-seed, until it boils. Add 
the vegetables, and boil for about fifteen min- 
utes, or until the cauliflower is tender enough 
to be easily pierced with a fork. 

Pickled Mushrooms. 

Sufficient vinegar to cover the mushrooms ; 
to eacli quart of mushrooms, two blades 
pounded mace, one ounce ground pepper; 
salt to taste. Choose some nice, young but- 
ton mushrooms for pickling; rub off the 
slcins with a piece of flannel and salt, and cut 
OfE the stalks ; it very large, take out the red 
inside and reject the black ones as they are 
too old. Put them in a stewpan, sprinkle 
salt over them, with pounded mace and pep- 
per in the above proportions; shake them 
well over a clear fire until the liquor flows, 
and keep them there until it is all dried up 
again; then add as much vinegar as will 
cover them ; just let it simmer for one min- 
ute, and store it away in stone jars for use. 
"When cold, tie down with bladder, and keep 
in a dry place ; they will remain good for a 
length of time, and are generally considered 
delicious. 

Quince Marmalade. 

Gather the fruit when fully ripe; pare, 
quarter, and core, boil the skins with as 
many teacuptuls of water as you have pounds 
of quincjcs ; when they are soft, mash them 
and strain the water from theifi and put into 
the quinces; boil them until, tliey are soft 
enough to mash fine; rub through a sieve, 
add to the pulp as many pounds of sugar as 
there are of pulp, stir together, and set over 
a geutle fire until it will fall from a spoon 
hke jelly. If it jellies when cold, it has 
cooked enough. Put in pots or tumblers and 
when cold, secure as instructed for jellies. 



AYER'S CHERRY PECTORAL Received Hedal at World's Fair. 



A. DOLL BEIDE. 



CHILDREN'S DELIGHT. 



A DOLL BRIDE. 



The Loveliest and Daintiest Paper 
Doll Ever 5een. 



Bridal Robes, Street Dress, House Dress, and Carriage 
Dress, Cloves, Hats, Etc., to Match. 



EVEBt lIlTTLE CIRL WILL WANT IT. 



y:^- 



V 



Thet prettiest, dressiest, toniest paper doll that has 
yet appeared is-Ayer's Doll Bride. It is well made, 
i strong, and durable ; has movable arms ; is all ready 
^for use, and its dresses are in the very height of style. 

This doll has a beautiful face ; its clothes are models ' 
' of the di^essmaker's art ; its jaunty, artistic hats, its 
shapely gloves, its graceful draperies match each cos- 
tume, are in exquisite taste, and hand^mely colored. 

No other doll can begin. to cc)nipare with the DoP. 
Bride for matchless beauty, f«<r elegance of design, or 
for richness of outfit, and while ^ proud to state we 
haye been successful in producing the most bewitching doll in the market, . 
we are also pleased to say no other doll of equal size and beauty can be 
purchased for so little money. Children are sure to be charmed with it. 

The Doll Bride will be sent on receipt of 12 cents in stamps, by 
Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass. 

■^ AYER'S SARSAPARILLA cures DebUity. 




INDEX. 



ISTRODUCTIOW. 

Canning and Peesekvinq - - - i 
Apples, Canned Porter - - 25 

Apple Sauce, Canned Baked 3 

Apples, Preserved 3 

Apricots, Canned 25 

Barlaerry Preserve with Pears 25 

Barberry Sauce with Sweet Apples 3 

■ Blackberries, Canned 5 
Blueberries, Canned 5 
Cherries, Canned 5 
Cherries, Preserved 5 
Citron Preserve - - 25 
Currants and Berries Canned without cook- 
ing - S 
Figs, Preserved 27 
Gi'ape Preserve 5 
Lemon Peel, Preserved 27 
Orange Peel, Preserved 29 
Peaches, Canned - 5 
Peaches Preserved 5 
Pears, Whole, Canned 25 
Pineapple, Canned 7 
Pineapple, Preserved - 7 
Plums, Canned 7 
Plums, Preserved 7 
Quinces, Canned - 25 
Quinces, Preserved 7 
Raspberries, Canned ■ 7 
Raspberries, Preserved 7 
Rbubarb, Canoed - 9 
Rhubarb, Canned, Not Cooked 27 
Strawberries, Canned 9 
Tomato Figs - 9 
Tomatoes, Canned 9 
Tomatoes, Green, Preserved 9 
Tomatoes, Ripe, Preserved - 11 
Tomatoes, Whole for Winter Use - 11 

Butters, Jams, and Maujtalades. 

Apple Butter 11 

Apple Marmalade 29 

Apple Sauce with Sweet Cider 11 

Apricot Marmalade 25 

Barberry Jam 11 

Blackberry Jam 11 

Gooseberry Jam 13 

Grape MarmsJade 13 

Orange Marmalade 13 

Peach Marmalade 13 

Quince Marmalade 31 

Raspberry Jam 13 

Strawberry Jam 29 



Jellies. 

General Directions for Making Jelly 

Apple Jelly - 

Apple, Crab, Jelly 

Barberry Jelly 

Blackberry Jelly - 

Calf's-foot Jelly 

Chicken Jelly 

Coffee Jelly - 

Cranberry Jelly - 

Currant Jelly and Jam 

Grape Jelly 

Lemon Jelly with Banana 

Orange and Banana Jelly 

Orange Jelly - 

Plum Jelly 

Quince Jelly 

Strawberry Jelly 

Wine or Cider Jelly 

Yellow Jelly 
Pickles, Spiced Fruits, and Catsups. 

General Directions for Pickles 

Cabbage, Pickled 

Cauliflower, Pickled 

Cherries, Pickled 

Chili Sauce 

Chow Chow 

Chutney Sauce 

Cucumber Pickles 

Currants, Spiced - 

Grapes, Spiced 

Mangoes 

Melons, Sweet Pickled 

Mushrooms, Pickled 

Mustard Pickled - 

Nasturtiums, Pickled 

Nuts, Pickled 

Onions, Pickled 

Peaches or Plums, Sweet Pickled - 

Pears, Sweet Pickled 

Piccalilli - 

Picklette - 

Pickle, Mixed 

Tomato Pickle, Cold 

Tomato Pickle, Green 

Tomato Pickle, Spiced 

Tomato Pickle, Sweet 

Tomato Pickle, Uncooked 

Catsup, Cold - 

Catsup, Currant 

Catsup, Grape 

Catsup, Tomato 

Catsup, Walnut - 

To Seal Bottles with Wax 



13 

15 
15 
15 
15 
27 
29 
27 
15 
15 
15 
29 
27 
29 
17 
17 
27 
29 
27 

17 
17 
31 
31 
17 
17 
19 
19 
19 
19 
31 
31 
31 
19 
21 
21 
21 
21 
21 
21 
29 
29 
21 
21 
21 
29 

2a 

23 
23 
23 
23 
23 
23 



m^MdzUonal copies of ATER'S PRESERVE BOOK may he obtained from 
J. a Ayer Co., Lowell, Mass., on receipt of a $-cent stamp. 

AVER'S SARSAPARILiTjA makes the Weak Strong. 



1-! I .■■ 




COMPLIMENTS OF 



