?^; 





^ 



n. 



^I^^BBi , 



' S' 



ill 



mo^^ 



jston Public Library 



aS^ to~o r. ^ 



7 



1 




(jJoJAjtyi. '^^^^kJ^Ua^ f C«, 



CM 



^ 



A COLLECTION 



OF 



TRIED RECEIPTS 



C0XTRI15UTED BV 



/v 



VARIOUS CHARLESTOWN HOUSE-KEEPERS. 



PuhHshed in behalf of the WOMAN' S AUXILIARY to the 

CHARLESTOWN BRANCH of the 

Boston V. M. C. A. 



"When baked, and boiled, and , stewed/ 'int3,tdt4ted, and fried, 
and broiled^ ^i>d §i.>6ked, and roasted'i, ' ' ' ' 

WE'LL TRV-^t;tHE TOWN." 



GLOBE WAX OIL, 

FOR 

■' Kitchens, Back Kails and Stairway Floors. 



"XHIS Oli. contains no acids and does not injure the hands. Saves 
-* ]abor and does away with grease spots on the iloor ; it beautifies the 
liaxd Pine Floor and retains its lieh brown hue for many months, it applied 
according to directions. Apply \\ith EIu^h, Sponge or Cloth aid rub 
-well into the grain of the wood ; let it stand thirty minutes ; rub dry with 
cloths, and the desired effect will be attained.^ 

ADjone Can Do It ! Try it and be Convinced 4 

If you house is finished in hard wood, have it finished with the BostOIl 

Globe Polish. For Uaidness, Lu.'-tie ar.d Durability, it has no 
superior. It spreads easily, sets quickly and polishes with les^s labor. 

It intensifies the color and beauty of the wood, and does not scratch 

like Varnish or Shellac Finishes. 
■Spruce Floors can be finished by using the GLOBE WAX to look like 

Hard Wood Floors, thus doing away with Carpets, and yet giving a 

neat, handsome effect. 
£«nd for BOOK telling how to Finish all kinds of Floors, Free. Small 

samples of Spruce, finished in different shades, will be furnished if 

desired. 

Globe purniture Polist) ! 

The best in the world (not a cheap thing sold by agent* 
who have no reputation to lose) for Cleaning and Polish- 
ing Hard- Wood Finish, Pianos, Painted Floc^rs, Oil Cloths, 
Furniture. Interior Wood Work, Outside Doors, Thresholds, 
Office Desks, Gas Fixtures, Iron Work, Picture Frames and 
everything Stained, Painted or Varnished. 

WARRANTED OR MONEY REFUNDED. 

Prii-e^ 25 Cents per Bottle. 

MANUFACTURED AND FOR SALE BY 

GLOBg TO^^^^ COMPANY, 

GEORGE E;.WCKI.E,' 'Manage^ 
18 TempJje>.P.lajee,. Boston, Mass., U. S. A. 




CHARLESrOWN Y. M. C. A. BUILDING. 



Fflrniture, Carpets, 



Wall Paper China. 



SixHonths WHEN 

IN DOL 
BUY OF 



Free 

c„,i,. , IN DOUBT ,„,„,,„,,. 



o s e © o D 



No 
Interest. 



BUY OF 

WHEN 

IN DOUBT 



Free 
Delivery. 



The c. E. Osgood Co. 

Boston's Money-Saving Home Furnishers, 

744 Washington Street. 756 



DEDICATION. 



We have often asked and are asking still 
J^or the name of the 7voman whose wondrous skill 
Whipped the first eggs till she saw them rise 
Like a feathery motmtain before her eyss. 

^Twas a ivoman swe ; Uis plain to all, 

JIad a man but seen an appl; fall. 

His name would have echoed from shore to s/iore^ 

With a " Sir " before it forevermore. 

We fancy her home was by ocean'' s side., 

That she knew the 7?iystery of witid and tide, 
_And that watching her husband sail toward home 

While the playful " white caps " topped their foam^ 
_A quick thought flashed on her happy mind 

And she whipped it out for all ma/ikind. 

To this good ivoman, unsung and unsaid, 

We dedicate the book 7v; have made, 
May the number of thoughtful cooks increase 
^nd the line of herfollotuers never cease. 

To all who may open its covers for aid 

Jn the hurry of noon or at evening's calm shade. 

We offer the hope that they find what they seek, 
f est patience he tried and faith groiv weak. 

And may all the results of their cookeiy be 
As wholesome and tasteful and fair to see] 
As the eggs 7uhich our patron of old did beat. 
And daintily sugared to make them sweet. 

To the friends who have helped us with hand and 7tfithhraim 
To the tveights and measures our pages contain. 
We tender the very best thanks in our store 
jind bid them go on tj knjw more and more. 



¥¥¥¥¥^¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥^¥¥¥¥¥'^ 



ESTABLISHED 1780. 



WALTER BAKER & GO. Ltd. 

Dorchester, Mass., U. S. A. 




The Oldest and Largest 
facturers of 



Mam 



PURE, HIGH GRADE 

COCORS and 

Chocolates 

CN THIS CONTINENT. 

No Chemicals are u.=e(l in their inanu- 

factures. ^ 

Tlieir Breakfast Cccca is abpolntely 
pure, delicious, nutritious, and costs 
less than one cent a cup. 

Tlieir Premitiin No. 1 Chocolate is the 

lest iilain chocolate in the market 
for family use. 

Their German Sweet Chocolate is 

gdodtoeat and jiood to drink. It 
is jialatable, nurririous, and health- 
ful ; a great favorite -with children. 

Baron von Liehiir, one of the best known writers on cietetics, says:— 

"It [Cocoa] is a j^erfec" foo:l, as wholcsctme as delicious, a beneficent re- 
storer < f exhausted power; but its quality must be good, and it must be 
carefully 1 rcj'arcd. It is hiiihly nourishin.c; and easily digested, and is 
fitted to repair wasted strengtli, preserve health, and ] rolon^ life. It 
agrees vi.:i (!ry tcr.iierainents and convalescents; Avitli mothers Avho 
nurte their children. ; v.i:h those whofe occupations oblige tliem to 
undergo : cvcie r..ental strains; with public speakers and with all those 
who give to work a portion of the lime needed for sleep. It soothes both 
stomach and brain, and.for this reason, as well as for others, it is the best 
friend of i!io!-e engaged ia literary pursuits.' 

CONSUMERS SHOULD ASK FOR AND BE 
LURE THAT THEY GET THE GENUINE 

WALTER BAKER & CO.'S 

Goods, made at DORCHESTER, MASS., U. S. A. 




k6l>i4«l##<%##i«i%44«^4i(|i(|«l4i<^«^#ii|#<^4#4i(^«l«i^4>4#«l#4i^^ 



yWEATS. 



Roast Beef With Yorkshire Pudding— Place 

the roast of beef upon sticks across the dripping pan in the ordi- 
nary way ; an hour before the beef is done mix the pudding, 
pour into the pan, the drippings from the beef falling upon 
the mixture. When done, cut the pudding and lay around the 
meat when dished. If there is much fat in the pan before 
the pudding is ready, drain it off, leaving just enough to pre- 
vent the batter from sticking to the bottom of the pan. For 
the Pudding. — One pint milk, 4 eggs, beaten separately, 
2 cups flour, 1 teaspoonful Crystaline salt. Be careful not 
to get the batter too stiff. 

Roast Turkey with Oysters— After drawing the 
turkey rince with soda and water, and then with clear water. 
Prepare a dressing of bread crumbs, mixed with butter, 
pepper, Crystaline salt and sage. Wet with hot water or milk, 
add the yolks of 2 eggs, mince a dozen oysters and stir 
into the dressing. Fill the turkey with this. Dredge 
with flour before roasting. Serve with oyster sauce, made 
by adding to a cupful of liquor in which the turkey was 
baked, the same quantity of milk, and a dozen oysters well 
seasoned with minced parsley, thickened with flour and a 
tablespoonful of butter. 

Ham Cakes. — :Chop fine 1 cup ham, beat light 4 eggs, 
mix together, drop by tablespoonful in hot buttered frying 
pan. Very nice for breakfast. 

Mrs. B. F. Stacey. 



8 

Ham Rolls — Make rich pie paste, roll thin, cut in strips 
four inches long and three wide. Spread with finely minced 
ham ( boiled ), moistened slightly with milk, and egg ; roll, 
like jelly roll, put in pan far enough apart to keep from touch- 
ing. Bake in hot oven '20 or SO minutes. Veal or chicken 
may be used in place of ham. 

Mrs. B. F. Stacey. 

Veal Loaf — Three pounds raw veal, ^ pound salt pork, 
chopped fine, and add one cup of pounded cracker crumbs, 
'2 eggs, well beaten, 2 teaspoonfuls pepper, '2 teaspoonfuls 
Crystaline salt, sage and nutmeg to taste. Bake two hours 
in a deep tin. 

Chiclveil Jelly — Joint two chickens as for fricassee, 
leave out giblets, take off skin, boil in water enough to cover 
until all the bones can be easily removed. Then strain the 
liquor, of which there must be one quart ; season with Crystal- 
ine salt and pepper and small piece of butter. To this 
boiling liquor add one box of gelatine dissolved in one 
pint of cold water ; put in the chicken, and after it has 
all boiled up, turn into moulds to cool. Very nice with 
celery boiled with the chicken. 

Cold Beef with Puree of Potatoes— Pare, boil 
and mash 1"2 large potatoes, add to them Crystaline salt, pepper 
and 2 tablespoonfuls of butter ; then beat in gradually 1 pint of 
boiling milk. Spread this preparation on a warm dish, and 
place on it handsome slices of cold roast beef. Put a table- 
spoontul of gravy on each slice, place the dish in the oven 
for a few minutes. Garnish the edge of the dish with any 
kind of green leaves. 

Pot-All-Feu— Place in your kettle o or 4 pounds of 
beef, with enough water to cover the meat, add 1 teaspoonful 
crystaline salt. When the water begins to boil, take the scum 
off carefully, then add 4 or 5 cirrots, 1 turnip ( both cut in 
4 or .") pieces ), 1 onion, a little parsnip and 3 cloves. Let it 
boil slowly 4 hours. Poast 2 slices of bread and then cut it 
up in pieces in a dish, then pour the broth on it : this is the 
soup. The msat is served with the vegetables. 



Rechauffe of Chicken — Mince fine cold chicken, 
veal or turkey, a slice of ham, and a little onion, if liked. Put 
the meat in a baking dish with 1 cup bread crumbs, 1 cup 
milk, a little butter, 2 eggs, well beaten, pepper and Crystal- 
ine salt to taste. Bake a delicate brown. 

Scalloped Meats— Chop fine any kind of cooked 
lean meat, season with pepper and crystaline salt. Put 
layer of it in a deep buttered dish, then a layer of bread 
crumbs, few spoons of gravy, repeating the process, having a 
good layer of crumbs on top, on which put bits of butter ; 
bake until brown. Nice for breakfast. 

Chicken Croquettes — One pint of finely chopped 
chicken, 1 teaspoon Crystaline salt, ^ pepper, 1 cup cream or 
chicken stock, 1 tablespoon flour, 4 eggs, 1 teaspoon onion 
juice, 1 tablespoon lemon, 3 tablespoons butter. Put cream on 
fire, mix flour and butter tos^ether and stir into cream, add the 
chicken and seasoning. Boil 2 minutes, add eggs well beaten 
take immediately from fire and sit away to cool. When 
zo\d shape and fry. 

E. M. Duncan. 
!N'orwegian Ghiar — Mince 1 pound of cooked meat. 
Take a bowl of bread and pour on it the hot stock in which 
the meat was cooked. Mash the bread until it is a smooth 
batter. Beat 2 eggs and add to the batter, season with 
Crystaline salt, pepper and poultry spice, mix thoroughly and 
press into a tin, bake 1 hour. Let stand a few minutes after 
taking from the oven, then turn into hot dish, being careful 
not to break. Sprinkle with hot bread crumbs and brown in 
hot oven. When nicely browned pour over a rich brown 
gravy. Green ])eas are an excellent accompaniment. 

Mrs. Herbert K. Scott. 
Oyster Sauce — One pint oysters, half a lemon, 2 table- 
spoons butter, 1 teaspoon flour, 1 teacup milk or cream, 
pepper to taste. Boil the oysters in their own liquor five 
minutes and add the milk. When this boils, strain and re- 
turn to sauce-pan, thicken with flour, add the butter, and last 
the lemon. 



A Capital Idea! 







USE 

Johnson's Anodyne Lis^iment 

Internal as much as External. 

Originated by an Old Family Physician in 1810. 

Stnns Pain. Cramps. Tnflammntion in bodv or limb like m;i-'ic. f'lircs (^"ruup. Astliuia, Colds. Ca^arrli, 
Lame Back, i:«tift' Joints, and Strains. Full particulars frci-. Price ::!5c. I, S. J(JHXJr;ON & CO., Boston, Mas*. 



11 



Veal Cutlets — Trim the slices of veal, salt and dip in 
a beaten egg, and then into rolled cracker crumbs, or 
or bread crumbs rubbed fine. Have in your frying pati a 
tablespoon of lard, very hot, into which put the cutlet and let 
it cook slowly on the back of the stove, frequently turning so 
that the whole will be a golden brown when done. Halibut 
stake can be cooked in the same manner. 

Meat Short Cake — Make a crust like biscuit, using a 
little more butter : divide in halves, roll about half an inch 
thick ; put in a biscuit pan spread with butter, roll other 
half and lay over it, bake in hot oven. Chop pieces of cold 
meat coarsely, put in stew pan wdth cold gravy, if you have 
it, if not, use water ; season with butter and Crystaline salt 
and thicken with a little flour ; simmer until ready to use. 

Split the cake when done and pour in the warm meat and 
gravy ; put on top crust and send to the table imme- 
diately. Cold turkey or chicken are nice used in this way. 



Eumford 

V BHKING POiAZDER. ••• 

A strictly pure phosphate powder, superior to cream tartar or alum 
baking powders in baking quality and healthfulness. 

It will retain its baking strength indefinitely, and is always uniform. 

Bicuit, Cake, etc., made with R U M FO R D ai'e more delicate, and 
retain their fresh and moist condition longer than when other powders are 
used. 

15 cts. Half=Poiind. 
30 " One Pound. 



Pure and Sure. 




Royal Powdered Soap, 

The riodern . . . 
Household Cleanser. 

A POWDERED SOAP, containing no Caustic, Soda or 
Potash. For Laundiy, Kitchen, Household ar.d Bath. 



VE6ETABLES 



Cabbage Salad— Chop half head of cabbage quite 
fine, add little Crystaline salt and pepper and 1 table- 
spoon sugar. Dressing. — One egg well beaten, I teaspoon 
mustard, 1 teaspoon flour, butter size of an egg, 2 table- 
spoons cream, ^ pint vinegar, cook until it thickens, stir into 
cabbage when cold. Cream may be omitted. 

Mrs. N. F. Roberts, 

How to Cook Rice — Wash rice in four or five waters,, 
in a dry vessel put a piece of butter the size of an egg, when 
melted add rice mixed well with butter. Salted water is 
then added and the rice cooked slowly without stirring. 

Escalloped Tomatoes — One pint fresh or canned 
tomatoes, 1 pint bread crumhs, 3 tablespoons butter, 1 of 
sugar, 1 tablespoon Crystaline salt, J teaspoon pepper. Put 
layer of tomatoes in dish, dredged with Crystaline salt and 
pepper, dot with butter, a layer of crumbs, and so on until 
dish is filled, crumbs on top. If fresh tomatoes, bake 1 
hour. If canned, one-half hour. 

Mrs. N. F. Roberts. 

Baked Macaroni — Break 12 sticks, cover with boiling 
water, cook 20 minutes. While boiling add 1 tablespoon 
Crystaline salt, drain, put in a baking dish and pour over 
the white sauce, add 1 cup cracker crumbs. Bake 1 hour. 
White sauce— Boil 1 pint milk, two tablespoons butter ; melt 
butter in sauce pan, add 2 tablespoons flour, stir until well 
mixed, pour hot milk on slowly, season with Crystaline salt, 
pepper and ^ cup grated cheese. 

Mrs. N. F. Roberts. 



u 



Creamed Potatoes— Put in your frying pan J cup 
cream or 1 cup milk. Let them boil, stir 1 teaspoon of 
cornstarch, 2 tablesf ccns cold milk, pour into boiling milk 
season with butter, pepper and Crystaline salt, add cold 
boiled potatoes cut into diets. Cook until v\ aimed thiough, 

Clint 11 ey {5^ a lice — Chop 12 ripe tomatoes, 3 onions,! 
handful of raisins, add 1 cup sugar, 1 cup vinegar, ^ teaspoon 
cayenne pepper, ^ tei^spconful black pepper, Crystaline salt. 
Cook about lO minutes slowly. Can or bottle and do not 
use for a week. 

Miss Weld. 

Cattage Salad — Two teaspoons sugar. 2 salt spoons 
Crystaline salt, 2 of mustard, 3 tablespoons crerm, 2 eggs, 
^- cup vinegai. Cook until thick, add oil or butter to taste. 
Chop cabbage f ne, turn salad cream on while hot and mix 
thoroughly. 

Miss Weld. 

Scolloped Vegetables to eat with Cold Meat 
. — Eoil several varieties of vegetables soft, chop separate 
and put a layer of each into a dish ; season with Crystaline 
salt, pepper and butter ; then cover with a nice stufling of 
biead ciumls, etc., m.oisten with gravy or stock and bake 
half an hour. 

Corn Chowder — Pare and slice a few potatoes. Eoil 
in water enough to cover, then fry a few small slices of pork, 
in which put green corn just sliced from the cob, then the 
potatoes and the water in which they are boiled. Dust en 
peper, Crystaline salt and cracker; boil filteen minutes 
and cover with milk, simmer two minutes. It is a nice dish. 

Macaroni a la Creme — Cook the macaroni ten 
minutes in boiling water. Drain this off and add a cupful 
of milk, with a little Crystaline salt. Stew until tender. 
In another dish heat a cupful of milk to boiling. Thicken 
with a teaspconful of flour. Stir in a tablespoonful of butter 
and lastly a beaten egg. When it thickens pour it over the 
macaroni after it is dished. This may be eaten with butter 
and sugar or served with meat. 



15 



Baked Tomatoes — Remove skins and slice into a 
nappy, sprinkling over them a little Crystaline salt, pepper, 
bits of butter, and a trifle of sugar. Divide Boston crackers 
and dip them quickly in cold water ; then cover the tomatoes 
with them, laying on each cracker a good lump of butter. 
Bake in oven twenty minutes or half an hour. 

Warmed over Sweet Potatoes — Take a small 
pudding dish, put into it 1 tablespoon butter, when melted add 
1 cup cold sliced sweet potatoes, sprinkle over 2 tablespoons 
sugar, ^ cup hot water. Bake until potatoes are brown. 

Scalloped Potatoes — Two cups mashed potatoes, 2 
tablespoons melted butter, Crystaline salt and pepper. Bake 
in a hot oven 10 minutes, taking care to have the top a rich 
brown. Serve hot. 

Rice Croquettes — One cup of rice, 2 cups of water, 
Crystaline salt; simmer until soft. Butter the size of an 
egg, 2 eggs. Make into balls or oblong rolls ; dip in cracker 
crumbs and fry in lard. They retain their shape better and 
fry more easily if prepared some hours before frying. 

DOBBINS' FLOATING-BORAX SOAP 

Is Guaranteed to be the Best floating soap on the market and the only one contain- 
ing Borax. It is 100 PER CENT. PURE. We take pride in calling attention to the 
following certiliate from the leading analytical chemists of this city : 

Dobbins? Soap Manufacturing Co., 

iig South Fourth Street, Philadelphia. 
Gentlemen : — 

We have carefully analyzed the sample of Dobbins" Floating-Borax Soap you sent 
us, and tind it to contain five per cent, of Borax (Bi-Borate of Sodaj. It contains nothiog 
injurious for use in the bath, toilet or laundry. W'e find it free from adulteration, and 
therefore certify to its purity. 

Yours respectfully, 

BOOTK, GARRETT & BLAIR. 

This soap costs more to make than any other floating soap, and a moment's cgmparison. 
of it with the best f.cating scap ycu kr.cw olwill show anyone that its actual value is much 
higher than that of any other brand ; but it will be sjld everywhere at tht same price as 
other leading, though po irer brands. Your grocer has it, or can esily get it, and one trial 
will convince you of its great superiority to the best of other floating soaps for Toilet, 
Bath or Laundry use. It is put up in two sizes— a five-cent cake, or Toilet size, and a larger 
cake, or Laundry size. The latter is more convenient and economical for general household 
use. 

/' 'f 'i: o t'v iniiii ■'Oifi -.u'nse w^at>f>irs are printed in red, hence it is impossible 
to mistake it for an}' othe-, even at a distance Ask for Dobbins' Floatiug-Borax Soap, 
Red Wrapper. See list of preiniiiins offered for returned wrappers. 

DOBBINS SOAP MFC. CO., Philadelphia, Pa. 



16 



I wi«SOIIS EUm^ I 

^^ THE KINQ^OF^ALL CURES. $$r 

^^ Eiery jottle Warranted. $$■ 

|5 For Horses it cures Saddle ar\d f f" 
;5 Collar Galls, Scratct\es, Grease Heel, J^ 
II Quarter CracKs, Contracted Cords, li 
11 31loe Boils, ^tIeaX ar\d Sore BacKs, H 
II and all SoiT\t Affections. ^; 

n F=OR F^HTV^ILV USE. $$ 

^^ Guaranteed to cure all Crude Cuts $$' 

^^ and Sores. R positive cure for Piles, $P 

^^ Scalds, Cliilblains, Lain© BacK, ^^' 

^1 Corns, Sore Tiyroat, Cliest or Lungs. ^^• 

$$ For Rl^euinatisin it is tl:\e greatest $^ 

^j rnedical discovery of tt^e age. $^ 

^^ We challenge the World to produce its ^$ 

$$ equal. ^^ 

jSWUgnottrg l(aiiillieConvliiceii?g 

(»d^ A little experimentinc may save you time and 

y^ money. Others have tried it to their entire satis- *'^' 

U faction. WHY NOT YOU? ^^ 

$P For sale by $$ 

<«t GEO. C. GOODWIN & CO., 36 & 38 Hanover St.. Boston. ^^ 

**^ MARK W. CROSS & CO., 118-120 Sudbur>' St., Boston. PP 

$$ T. J. HANLON&CO., 1.^0 Tremont St., Boston. ti. 

rf^ LONDON HARNESS AGENCY, 206 Devonshire St., Boston ^^ 
PP ANI> ALL DEALERS. $$- 

$$ MATSON BROS., Sole Prop's, Newton Centre, Mass. $$ 



SyqLABS ANB Eees 



Omelettes — Two eggs, ^ tablespoon flour, little Crys- 
taline salt, 1 cup milk. Beat yolks and whites of eggs 
separately, wet the flour with a little milk, add yolks, whites, 
then the milk, stir just a little. Cook in buttered dish, fold 
over and serve. 

Johanna Wollgast. 

Lobster Salad — Four eggs boiled hard ; when cold 
remove the yolks and beat them with 2 teapoonsfuls mus- 
tard, 1 of Crystaline salt, 1 of pepper and a little cayenne; 
mix well together; add 4 spoonsfuls vinegar and spawn of 
iish. Chop together lobster, lettuce and small onion, then 
add the sauce. 

Mrs. I. E. Merrill. 

Soft Boiled Eggs — Drop fresh eggs into a dish of 
boiling water, cover them and move at once to where the 
water will be hot, but not boil. Let stand seven minutes. 
The heat of the water cooks the eggs slowly, evenly and sufld- 
ciently, leaving the center or yolk harder than the white, and 
the ^gg tastes much nicer. Cut the shell and remove &^^ 
with spoon, season and serve hot in ^gg cups. Delicious. 

Mrs. F. W. Towle- 

Salinoii Salad — Cut a white cabbage in long, 
narrow, thin strips, then in squares. Place in a dish thick 
enough to cover the bottom of the dish, add finely picked 
salmon, then the dressing. Repea.t until you have lar.cre 
enough salad. A little onion cut fine and placed between 
vCabbage is very nice. Have dressing on top of the salad. 

Miss Lillian Wiley. 



18 

Escaloped Oysters — Mix l cup of stale bread crumbs, 
1 cup cracker crumbs, and 4- cup butter melted. Sprinkle 
bottom of buttered dish with crumbs, cover with layer of 
oysters, dredge with Crystaline salt, pepper and mace ; pour 
over 1 tablespoon of oyster liquor, and 1 tablespoon milk, 
repeat and cover top with ^ cup of buttered crumbs. Bake 
about 1 hour. Mrs. J. W. Bryant. 

Stewed Lobster — Cut lobs'ters in small pieces, shake 
on a little pepper, then dredge with small pieces of butter, 
add 1 cup milk, and heat in sauce-pan, when butter is melted 
it is done. Cream salt fish in same way only add hard 
boiled eggs. Mrs. J. W. Bryant. 

Escaloped Oysters — Two cups of fine bread or crack- 
er crumbs, 1 pint small oysters, 1 pint milk. In a deep dish 
put layer of crumbs and bits of butter. Layer of oysters 
with pepper and Crystaline salt, then about ^ cup of milk, 
continue until all are used, have crumbs on top. Bake half 
hour. Mrs. M. R. Sanderson. 

Salad Dressing — Two eggs beaten very light, add 
7 tablespoons vinegar and beat "2 tenspoons made mustard, 
1 teaspoon Crystaline salt. Put in double boiler with ^ cup 
butter, stir until hot and creamy, cool : should it curdle, beat 
vigorously. Mrs. Taylor Thompson. 

Salad Cream — One dessert spoon mustard wet in a 
little water, 4 eggs well beaten, 1 tablespoon Crystaline salt, 
^ cup milk, o tablespoons sugar, 2 tablespoons cornstarch 
wet in water, mix all together. Heat ^ pint vinegar with ^ 
cup butter, when hot mix all together, cook until thick. 

Mrs. Geo. P. Ruggles. 

Omelet — Beat thoroughly the yolks of T) e gF, 1 dessert 
.[j Am flour, rub smooth in | cup of milk, Crystaline sa't and 
,vipper to taste, add butter size of hickory nut. Bent the 
whites stiff, pour the mixture into it without stirring, put in a 
iio: buttered frying pan, cook ."> minutes, fold and serve ; 
iliiely chopped ham may be added. Miss Weld. 



19 



State of Maine Salad Dressing — One-half cup 
milk or cream, scant J cup of vinegar, 1 egg well beaten, 
butter size of an egg, teaspoon mustard, teaspoon Crys- 
taline salt, pinch red pepper. Cook in double boiler and stir 
until creamy- Mrs. M. R. Sanderson. 

Salad Dressing — Two and one-half tablespoons flour, 
2 coffee cups milk, pour on to 3 eggs well beaten, 1 table- 
spoon sugar, Crystaline salt, 1 teaspoon mustard, speck cay- 
enne, coffee cup warm vinegar, 3 tablespoons oil or melted 
butter, cook until thick. Miss Dora Lowell. 

Salad Cream — Four tablespoons sugar, 1 tablespoon 
Crystaline salt, 3 tablespoons mustard, stir together, add the 
beaten yolks of 3 eggs, ^ large size bottle oil or heaping 
coffee saucer melted butter, 2 teaspoons vinegar, put in 
double boiler, thicken, add whites of eggs beaten to stiff 
froth. Mrs. N. F. Roberts. 

Creamed Lobster — Fori pint lobster meat cut fine, 
make 1 pint white sauce, season with Crystaline salt, cay- 
enne, juice ^ lemon. Heat the lobster in the sauce but do 
not let it boil, serve on thin toast. (Chafing Dish.) 

Salad Dressing — Four tablespoons butter, 1 heaping 
tablespoon flour, 1 tablespoon Crystaline salt, 1 of sugar, 1 
heaping teaspoon ful mustard, 1 cup milk, ^ cup vinegar, 
speck of cayenne, o eggs. Melt butter and add Hour, salt, 
sugar, mustard and pepper. After mixing smooth add the 
yolks of eggs well beaten, add vinegar hot, have the milk hot 
in double boiler, pour in the mixture, and in a minute add the 
whites of eggs beaten stiff, let all come to a boil, take from 
fire, set in cold water, beat a few miuutes to prevent curdling. 

Mrs. E. G. Davis. 

Egg Omelet— Three eggs, 3 tablespoons milk, ^ table- 
spoon melted butter, ^ tablespoon flour. Beat well together, 
adding whites of eggs last. Mrs. D. G. Alden. 

Corn Omelet — One-half cup corn scraped from ear un- 
cooked, yolk 1 egg, Crystaline salt, 2 tablespoons milk, white 
of 1 egg beaten stiff and stirred in just before cooking. 

Mrs. D. G. Alden. 



20 

Salad Dressing — One- third cup milk, ^ cup vinegar, 
1 egg, 1 teaspoon- sugar, 1 teaspoon Crystaline salt and mus- 
tard, ^ cup melted butter. Beat all together, cook over 
boiling water until it thickens, but not boil. 

E. M. Duncan. 

Potato Salad — One-half cup butter, 1 tablespoon 
flour, 1 egg, 1 teaspoon mustard, J cup vinegar, 1 cup boil- 
ing water, little pepper, Crystaline salt. Cook until it be- 
comes creamy. Slice cold potatoes, add a little onion, cool 
dressing and pour over potatoes. 

Potato Salad — Cut cold boiled potatoes in small 
pieces and lay on lettuce leaves, garnish with cold boiled 
beets cut in small pieces and pour over a salad dressing. 

Mrs. F. E. Streeter. 
Eg'g- Omelet — Three eggs, :> tablespoons milk, beat 
yolks well, add milk and Crystaline salt, fold in whites 
beaten stiff, cook in frying pan well buttered. 

Mrs. T. W. Devens. 

Creamed Lobster— Piece of butter size of egg, put 
in frying pan, heat hot but not brown. Stir in 2 cups chop- 
ped lobster, add h cup cracker crumbs, add i cup of cream, 
then 2 eggs, stiiring all the while. Crystaline salt, pepper. 
Cook until eggs just thicken, eggs to be beaten light. 

Mrs. Johnson. 

Salad Dressing — Mash fine the yolk of 1 hard boiled 
egg with a spoon, add the yolk of a raw egg, J teaspoons 
of Crystaline salt, 1 teaspoon dry mustard and a very little 
cayenne pepper. Stir this well, always one way, and add a 
few drops of sweet oil at a time until 3 large spoons are 
used. rhen add gradually a tablespoon or more of vinegar, 
mixing thoroughly. }*ut in a cool place. 

Cabbage Salad — Two eggs, butter size of ^ egg, 2 
tablespoons sugar, 1 teaspoon mustard, 1 teaspoon black 
pepper, 1 coffee cup vinegar Cook in kettle of water, like 
custard. Chop I small cabbage, and pour the dressing on 
after it cools. 



21 



Chicken Salad — Boil tender 4 good chickens ; when 
cold cut off the white part of the celery and chop in the same 
manner. To 2 quarts and a pint of chicken allow 1 quart 
and a pint of the celery, and a spoon of Crystaline salt. 
Mix well together and then stir in a part of the dressing. 
Shape the salad in a flat dish and pour over the remainder of 
the dressing. Garnish with hard boiled eggs, ( cut in rings ) 
beets, and the tops of the celery. 

Oyster Salad — One pint oysters, chopped fine, 10 
crackers rolled fine, 3 eggs, J teacup of fresh milk, f teacup 
of oyster liquid, ^ cup butter. Put all on the fire together 
and let come to a boil, stirring it well together. Remove 
from the fire and add 1 teacup of vinegar with 1 teaspoon 
celery. Crystaline salt and 1 spoon of mustard stirred into 
it, pepper and Crystaline salt to taste. Serve cold. 

Vegetable Salad — Take equal quantities of cooked 
beets, turnips, potatoes and other vegetables, if you have 
them, cut into small blocks about as large as dice. Tay in a 
dish and add celery cut fine, about ^ celery and ^ vegeta- 
bles. Mix with salad dressing. This dish looks very nice 
on the table. 




'' Tails," the Dog wins, '-Heads," the Goose, but Men and Women 
and Children all win when they have their Boots and Shoes made and 
repaired by 

S. R. LORING. 

BOOT AND SHOE flAKER, 

284 Main St., Charlestown, Mass. 



S0HPS AND Fish. 



Baked Fish with Oyster Stuffing.— Remove the 
skin, head and bones from a -i pound haddock, rub well with 
salt and lemon juice; lay one-half on a greased baking pan, 
cover thickly with oysters dipped in cracker crumbs and 
melted butter (J cup butter, 1 cup cracker crumbs), lay on 
the other half of fish, brush with beaten egg, cover with rest 
of crumbs ; bake oO minutes. Serve with Hollandaise sauce. 

Holla 11 claise Savice. Cream, ^ cup butter, add yolks 
2 eggs well beaten ; add juice of one-half lemon, little Crys- 
taline salt and cayenne, ^ cup boiling water ; cook over boil- 
ing water until slightly thick. If eggs are large, use ^ cup of 
water. Mrs. B. F. Stacey. 

Creamed Oysters. Parboil one quirt oysters until 
the liquor flows freely. Drain and put the liquor on to boil. 
There should be about 1 cupful. Melt 2 tablespoonfuls of 
butter in a saucepan, add 1 tablespoonful flour, and when 
well mixed add the liquor gradually; add little cayenne, 1 
tablespoonful lemon juice, ^ teaspoon Crystaline salt. Put 
six or eight oysters in each scallop shell, sprinkle with cracker 
crumbs moistened with melted butter, bake until brown. The 
oven should be hot and the shells set in hot water. 

Miss Weld. 
Oysters on Toast. Drain the liquor from the oysters,, 
put in hot pan a piece of butter and the oysters seasoned 
with Crystaline salt and pepper. Cover tightly and cook a 
few minutes until the oysters are full. Throw over buttered 
toast. Mrs. G. P. Ruggles. 



23 



Tomato Soup- One quart can tomatoes, 2 heaping 
tablespoons of flour, 1 tablespoon of butter, 1 teaspoon 
Crystaline salt, 1 teaspoon sugar, 1 pint hot water. Let 
tomatoes and water come to a boil. Rub flour, butter and a 
tablespoonful of tomatoes together. Stir into boiling mix- 
ture. Add seasoning. Boil all together 15 minutes. Rub 
through a sieve and serve with toasted bread cut in thin 
slices, buttered. Cut into small squares and place in oven. 

Mrs. N. F. Roberts. 

Cream of Rice Soup. Two quarts chicken stock (the 
water in which fowl has been boiled will answer), 1 teacup 
rice, 1 quart cream or milk, a small onion, a stalk of celery, 
Crystaline salt and pepper to taste. Wash rice carefully, add 
to stock, also onion and celery. Cook slowly two hours ; 
strain, add seasoning and the cream or milk which has been 
allowed to come to a boil. If milk is used, a tablespoonful of 
butter should be used. Mrs. N. F. Roberts. 

Tomato Sovip. Put 3 pints strong beef soup stock in 
your soup kettle, well seasoned with a bit of red pepper, cloves 
and mace. Let it come to a boil. Put 1 pint of canned 
tomatoes in a saucepan, breaking into it three thick slices of 
bread which you have dried and browned thoroughly. Boil 
together till the bread is soft, then put it through a hair sieve 
and add to the boiling soup. Serve in a hot tureen. 

Tomato Soup Without Meat. Boil l pint of 
tomatoes in 1 pint of water till soft ; season with butter, 
pepper and Crystaline salt. Just before serving, put in ^tea- 
spoonful of soda. Let it foam up well, then add 1 pint of 
milk which has been heated. 

Barley and Celery Soup. Pick over and wash ^ 
cup of barley. Cook 10 minutes in 3 tablespoonfuls of butter; 
add 5 cups white stock and cook 1 J hours ; add f cup of 
celery which has been cut fine and parboiled. Cook until 
tender. Season with Crystaline salt and pepper ; add 1 pint 
hot milk. Beat the yolks of 2 eggs and pour over. Serve at 
once. This soup is rich and nicely flavored. 

Miss A. Walkus. 



24 

Corn Souj). To 1 quart of corn cut from the cob put 
3 pints of water. Boil until corn is tender; add 1 pint sweet 
milk, Crystaline salt, pepper and 1 or 2 beaten eggs. Con- 
tinue the boiling a few minutes and thicken with a little flour. 

Potato Soup. Boil 4 potatoes, pass them through a 
colander, add the water in which they have been boiled, and 
salt to taste; add a small piece of butter. Hash some celery, 
put into tureen and pour boiling soup on it. Throw in small 
squares of bread fried brown in butter, or cup of tapioca, and 
let simmer 15 minutes, stirring until clear ; add l^ pints of 
milk. 

Lobster Soup. Meat of small lobster chopped fine, 
three crackers rolled fine, butter size of an egg, Crystaline 
salt and pepper to taste. Mix all together and add a pint of 
boiling milk, stirring all the while. Boil and serve. 

White Soup. Boil four potatoes and mash them fine 
with butter ; add 1 egg well beaten, season. Boil 1 pint of 
milk in the water in which the potatoes were boiled. Pour 
over the mixture, stir well, strain and serve very hot. 

Croutons. Take stale bread cut in slices ; remove the 
crust, cut in half-inch cubes; fry in very hot butter for about 
half a minute. Take them out, drain and sprinkle with Crys- 
taline salt. Drop them into the soup. 

Escaloped Oysters, Allow 4 crackers, 2 spoonfuls- 
of butter and 1 teaspoon of pepper to 1 quart of oysters. 

Fish Pudding. Two pounds of cold boiled halibut or 
fresh cod picked ; scald 1 pint of milk, thicken with flour to a 
paste, take from the fire and stir in J pound of butter, h a 
grated nutmeg, black and cayenne pepper, and Crystaline salt; 
whip in the yolks of four eggs, one by one, put a layer of this 
into a buttered dish, then a layer of fish, and so alternately 
fill the dish, letting the last layer be fish ; bread crumbs on 
top. Bake slowly one hour. 

Brown Sauce. Heat H tablespoons of sardine 
oil, 1 cup brown stock, ^ teaspoon lemon juice, few drops of 
Worcestershire sauce. Miss A. Walkus 



25 

Baked Mackerel. Make a dressing of bread crumbs, 
part of an onion if large, pepper, Crystaline salt and sage. 
Have ready two mackerel nicely washed, put in the dressing 
and sew up ; put very thin slices of salt pork on the bottom 
of your baking tin, on which lay the fish. Bake about h hour. 
Baste often and brown nicely before taking to the table. A 
sprig of parsley in the mouth of each looks well. Tomato 
is a nice vegetable to serve with it. 

Broiled Sardines. Drain and wipe 12 sardines; place 
on broiler over clear fire 2 minutes. Arrange on a platter 
and pour around 1 cup of brown sauce. 

Siiiotliered Fish. About 2 lbs. of haddock cut same 
as to fry, piece of butter as large as your hand ; let it get hot : 
add fish in layers with pepper and Crystaline salt. Let it 
cook 15 minutes; add 1 cup of milk and cook 15 minutes. 
Serve with baked potatoes. Miss Applis. 

Spiced Mackerel. Cut the mackerel in small pieces 
and put in an earthen dish or jar, and on each layer sprinkle 
cloves, cinnamon, Crystaline salt and pepper. Fill the jar 
with vinegar and tie a double piece of thick brown paper over 
the top. Let it bake all day. Any other spice may be added. 

Mrs. M. A. Jerauld. 

Mock Oyster Stew. Stew l pint tomatoes until soft 
enough to strain; scald 1 pint of milk. When ready to serve 
add ^ teaspoon soda, Crystaline salt, pepper, and a large 
piece of butter to tomatoes ; pour into milk. Let same come 
to a boil. Serve at once with common crackers, toasted 
brown. Mrs. T. W. Devens. 

3Iock Bisque Soup. 1 quart milk, ^ can tomatoes 
boiled and strained ; add ^ teaspoon soda, then the boiling 
milk. Season with celery salt, pepper and Crystaline salt. 
Serve very hot. Mrs. S. Rich. 



26 



^pecial 



Directions. 







Too much attention cannot be given to the se- 
lection of the ingredients in the following receipts. 

The best receipt will be an utter failure if poor 
or stale ingredients are used. It is therefore of the 
utmost importance that you buy your goods where 
they keep the best and freshest stock. 

Houghton & Dutton, Hancock Square, Charles- 
town, and Tremont and Beacon Streets, Boston^ 
always carry the best, and their enormous business 
enables them to keep a fresh stock and sell at 
lower prices than elsewhere. 

You are absolutely sure of success if you buy 
your groceries there. 



Bread. Breakfast .and Tea Cakes. 



Parker House Rolls — One pint milk boiled, mel*- 
in this butter size of large egg, and about a teaspoonful lard , 
add one cup cold water. When luke warm add half yeast 
cake, desert spoonful sugar, ^ teaspoonful Crystaline salt, add 
flour enough to make a thin batter. Mix this about 8 A. M., 
and let stand until noon, then add flour enough to knead 
well and let stand well covered until 4 o'clock ; then knead 
well and roll out thin and cut with a large round cutter, 
spread soft butter over the top and fold one half over the 
other. Place them apart a little so there will be room to 
rise, cover and place them near the hre for an hour and a 
half, or until well raised ; bake in rather a quick oven. These 
never fail to be good. A loaf of bread may be made of half 
if desired. Mrs. F. W. Towle. 

Franklin Mills Flour Bread. Four cups F. M. 
flour, 2 cups bread flour, 2 tablespoons lard, Crystaline salt, 
J yeast cake, ^ cup molasses, a cup scalded milk, the rest 
water. Very nice. Mrs. Ora B. Smith. 

Quaker Biscuit — Scald one cup Quaker oats with one 
pint boiling water, let stand one hour ; add ^ cup molasses, 
scant ^ tablespoonful Crystaline salt, ^ yeast cake dissolved 
in ^ cup warm water, 1 quart flour ; let rise 3 or 4 hours. 
Shape into biscuit and rise again ; bake in hot oven 20 
minutes. Mrs. J. W. Bryant. 

Poi> Dotlles — ^ cup sugar, J cup milk, one egg, 2 cups 
flour, small piece butter, 1 teaspoon baking powder. 

Mrs. L. E. Hoisington. 



28 



Oat Meal Cakes — One cup of cream, 2 cups of sour 
milk, 2 teaspoons of soda, oat meal sufficient to make a> 
ihick batter. Bake in roll pan. 

Cerealilie Muffins — Two cups Cerealine Flakes, 2^ 
cups milk, 2 cups flour, 2 teaspoon baking powder, ^ tea- 
spoon Crystaline salt, 1 egg, 2 teaspoon melted butter, 1 
tablespoon of sugar. Put Cerealine in a bowl and pour milk 
over it. Sift flour, salt, sugar and Baking Powder into mix- 
ing dish, and mix thoroughly, then add contents of bowl^. 
melted butter and egg well beaten. Stir vigorously until 
batter is smooth and bake in greased gem tins. 

By Mrs. Mary J. Lincoln, First Principal of Boston Cook- 
ing School, and author of Boston Cook Book. 

Crullers. One egg, I tablespoon 
sugar. Roll not too thin. Fry in lard. 



sweet milk, 2 of 





Ladies, 
Attention ! 

This is tlie Ceiebrated 

GOLD MEDAL 
BREAD FLDDR 


that makes such beautiful bread — tl 
all Cooking Schools as making the r 
xoUs. Call for Washbnni Crosby's C 
a perfect bread flour. Sold by nearly 


lat is recommended at 
nost perfect bread 2.xi^ 
^o/d Modal if you wish 
' all grocers in America. 



29 

1 cup milk scalded and cooled, 4- teaspoon Crys- 

1 yeast cake, 1 tablespoon of sugar, mix stiff, 
1 spoon ; let rise over night, in morning add 4- cup 
p currants, I tablespoon butter ; make in biscuit 

Mrs. L. E. Hoisington. 

Rolls — 1 egg, H cups milk, 2 tablespoons sugar, 
of egg, 3 cups flour, 2 teaspoons cream tartar, 1 
da, Crystaline salt. Mrs. F. W. Robinson. 

2 cups milk, ^ cup sugar, 1 yeast cake, 1 even 
t1 )da ; stir up thick at night. In the morning add 
;> r, 1 cup sugar, 1 cup currants or chopped raisins, 
(^ -g: stir thick with flour, rise again, then take 
S ^Ligh at a time and mould, put in tins and rise; 
'PO erate oven, wash tops when done with sweenened 
^ Mrs. F. W. Robinson. 

G ake. 1 cup flour, .} sugar, ^ meal, 1 egg, f cup 

05 - tablespoon melted butter, 1 teaspoon cream tar- 

3S mix ingredients, then add the milk and egg well 

5 hot melted butter. Bake quick in shallow pan. 
h3 Mrs. E. G. Davis. 

»XJ le. 2 eggs, 1 cup sugar, ^ cupmilk, l^cups flour, 

s butter, 2 level teaspoons baking powder. Line 
buttered paper, separate egg, cream, butter and 
ry ingredients, add the beaten yolks to milk, add 
to creamed butter, then the milk, stirring the 
repeat this until all the ingredients are used up; 
o stifl froth, fold lightly into mixture. Bake in 
raisins or currants may be added. 

M. Mae Davis. 
ast. y^ eggs, 1 pint milk, little Crystaline salt ; 
bread in this mixture and fry in hot well buttered 
n on both sides. 

lelisll for Tea. To one full cup coarse bread 
■crumbs add 8 cups sweet milk, good sized piece of butter, 1 
cup grated cheese, put in pudding dish, strew bread crumbs 
.-over top with bits of butter. Bake ^O minutes. 



28 



Oat Meal Cakes — One cup of cream, 2 cu 
milk, 2 teaspoons of soda, oat meal sufficient 
thick batter. Bake in roll pan. 

Cerealine Muffins — Two cups Cerealine 
cups milk, 2 cups flour, 2 teaspoon baking pov 
spoon Crystaline salt, 1 egg, 2 teaspoon meltec 
tablespoon of sugar. Put Cerealine in a bowl anc 
over it. Sift flour, salt, sugar and Baking Powde 
ing dish, and mix thoroughly, then add conten 
melted butter and egg well beaten. Stir vigor 
batter is smooth and bake in greased gem tins. 

By Mrs. Mary J. Lincoln, First Principal of Be 
ing School, and author of Boston Cook Book. 

Crullers. One egg, I tablespoon sweet 
sugar. Roll not too thin. Fry in lard. 



.ff^yfl/f^ 



t'^/ Tp/^fp./ r>'\*^ ■* 

motm 



Altentic 



This is tlie 



GOLD 



that makes such beautiful bread — that is reconr. 
all Cooking Schools as making the most perfect bread ana 
xolh. Call for Washburn Crosbfs Gold Modal \i you wish 
a perfect bread flour. Sold by nearly all grocers in America. 



29 

15miS — 1 cup milk scalded and cooled, ^ teaspoon CryS' 
taline salt, 1 yeast cake, 1 tablespoon of sugar, mix stiff^ 
stirring with spoon ; let rise over night, in morning add ^ cup 
sugar, ^ cup currants, I tablespoon butter ; make in biscuit 
and rise, Mrs. L. E. Hoisington. 

White Rolls — l egg, H cups milk, 2 tablespoons sugar, 
butter size of egg, 3 cups flour, 2 teaspoons cream tartar, 1 
teaspoon soda, Crystaline salt. Mrs. F. W. Robinson. 

Buns. 2 cups milk, ^ cup sugar, 1 yeast cake, 1 even 
.teaspoon soda ; stir up thick at night. In the morning add 
^ cup batter, 1 cup sugar, 1 cup currants or chopped raisins, 
little nutmeg: stir thick with flour, rise again, then take 
spoon of dough at a time and mould, put in tins and rise ; 
bake in moderate oven, wash tops when done with svveenened 
>cream. Mrs. F. W. Robinson. 

Corn Cake, l cup flour, .} sugar, J meal, 1 egg, | cup 
sweet milk, 1 tablespoon melted butter, 1 teaspoon cream tar- 
:tar, ^ soda ; mix ingredients, then add the milk and egg well 
beaten, add hot melted butter. Bake quick in shallow pan. 

Mrs. E. G. Davis. 

Tea Cake. 2 eggs, l cup sugar, ^ cup milk, 1 J cups flour, 
4 tablespoons butter, 2 level teaspoons baking powder. Line 
the pan with buttered paper, separate egg, cream, butter and 
;Sugar ; sift dry ingredients, add the beaten yolks to milk, add 
a little flour to creamed butter, then the milk, stirring the 
jnixture well, repeat this until all the ingredients are used up; 
beat whites to stiff froth, fold lightly into mixture. Bake in 
.quick oven ; raisins or currants may be added. 

M. Mae Davis. 

Eg'g- Toast, o eggs, 1 pint milk, little Crystaline salt ; 
dip slices of bread in this mixture and fry in hot well buttered 
pan till- brown on both sides. 

Cliessl Relish for Tea. To one full cup coarse bread 
crumbs add 3 cups sweet milk, good sized piece of butter, 1 
cup grated cheese, put in pudding dish, strew bread crumbs 
.over top with bits of butter. Bake 20 minutes. 



30 



3IuffillS. 1 cup milk, o cups flour, ^ cup sugar, piece of 
butter size of an egg, 1 teaspoon baking powder ; bake in 
muflfin tins. Mrs. F. E. Streeter. 

Breakfast Puffs. 1 cup flour, 1 cup milk, l egg, yolk 
and white beaten separately ; cook in hot buttered pan in 
quick oven. Mrs. N. H. Forbush. 

Rolls. 1 cup milk scalded, ^ cup butter, 2 tablespoons 
sugar, ^ yeast cake, Crystaline salt, white of 1 egg beaten 
stiff. Have the milk warm, add the butter melted, yeast dis- 
solved in very little w^ater, add flour to make stiff dough, add 
white of egg beaten in thoroughly with the hand. If wanted 
at night, mix in morning, if the dough rises quickly knead 
down, the more it is kneaded the better. Roll quite thin, 
spread with butter, fold over; let rise till light, bake in quick 
oven. Miss Weld. 




For a Ouick 
Breakfast of 
Delicious 
Cakes, 

Light your Are, heat 
your griddle — 



pmoan^ 



BUCKWHEAT DOES THE REST, 



31 

Apple Fritters. 1 cup sweet milk, 2 eggs, 1 cup 
chopped apple, ^ cup sugar, Crystaline salt, flour to make a 
thick batter; fry in hot lard. Miss Weld. 

Oiii|?er Bread. J cup butter and J cup sugar beaten 
together, h cup molasses, ^ cup sour milk, '2 scant cups flour, 
1 even teaspoon soda. Serve warm with whipped cream. 
Very nice. 

Rye Muffins. 1 cup rye, 1 cup flour, 1 cup milk, 1 egg, 
dessert spoon sugar, 2 full teaspoons baking powder, Crysta- 
line salt ; bake in gem pan, will make one dozen. 

Miss Applis. 

Breakfast Cake. 2 eggs, ^ cup butter, ^ cup meal, 1 
cup milk, 1 cup flour, 2 tablespoons sugar, 2 teaspoons baking 
powder. Mrs. C. L. Fillebrown. 

Oat 3Ieal Bread, l cup rolled oats, 1 pint boiling 
water, let it stand one hour, ^ cup molasses, ^ yeast cake, 1 
teaspoon Crystaline salt, 1 quart flour ; this is very stiff. In 
the morning, put in bread pan without moulding. Let rise, 
and then bake. Mrs. E. G. Davis. 

Breakfast Cakes. H cups milk, ^ sugar, 1 egg, 2 
cups fdour, 1 tablespoon Indian meal, 1 tablespoon melted 
butter, 1 teaspoon cream tartar, ^ soda, Crystaline salt; bake 
in quick oven in gem pan. Mrs. T. W. Devens. 

Popov^ers. l cup milk, 1 egg, 1 cup flour, butter size 
of nutmeg, melted, 1 tablespoon sugar, Crystaline salt; bake 
in quick oven 20 minutes in gem pan. 

Mis. T. W. Devens. 

Popovers. 2 eggs, 2 cups flour, 2 cups milk, 1 tea- 
spoon butter, 1 pinch Crystaline salt, beat well and bake in 
hot oven. 

Runaway Cakes (for breakfast), 1 cup sweet milk, 
1 cap sour .cream, soda sufficient to sweeten cream, I egg, 
flour to roll out. Roll thin as knife blade ; have lard boil- 
ing, throw the cakes into the lard, turn them over, and take 
out immediately. 



Blueberry Cake (for breakfast). One cup milk, 1 
cup sugar, 1 spoon butter, 1 cup blueberries, 1 teaspoon of 
soda, 1 teaspoon cream tartar, 3 cups of flour. 

8our 3Iilk Doug-hnuts, One cup brown sugar, 1 
egg, 1 cup sour milk, 2 large spoons of thick cream or 2^ 
butter, 't teaspoon soda, Crystaline salt. Don't mix hard ; 
handle lightly. 

Doughnuts. One cup of sugar, f cup of sweet milk, 1 
egg. 1 teaspoon butter melted, 1 teaspoon cream tartar, ^ soda, 
flour to roll out quite soft. 

Delicate Griddles. Take ^ pint flour, add the same 
measure of sour milk and 4- as much more. Beat well with 
the flour. Sift in a small teaspoon of soda, add a pinch of 
Crystaline salt and tablespoon of sugar, and, just before frying, 
two eggs. 



FOR PURITY AND STRENGTH 



BURNETT'S FLAVORING EXTRACTS 

ARE THE STANDARD. 

BURNETT'S FLAVORING EX FRACTS are not only true to their 
names, but are prepared from fruits of the best quality, and so highly 
concentrated that a small quantity only need be used. Housekeepers 
should insist on having; them. 

JOSEPH BURNETT CO., - BOSTON, MASS. 



FOR DAINTY EFFECTS. 

BURNETT'S COLOR PASTES 

ARE THE STANDARD. 

For coloring Ice Creams, Frosterings, Jellies, Custards, and all kinds of 
confectionery. The colors give artistic effects, and are perfectly 
harmless, having been examined by the analyst of the State Hoard of 
Heilth. Leaf Green, P'ruit Red, Golden 'Vellow, Damask Rose, 
Caramel, Chestnut, Imperial IJlue and Mandarin Orange. 

^end your address for '' Artistic Lunches." 

JOSEPH BURNETT CO., 35 India Street. BOSTON, MASS. 



33 

Graham Rolls — One quart graham meal, ^ cup of 
molasses, Crystaline salt to taste, 1 teaspoon soda, sour milk 
enough to make a batter of sufficient thickness. This must 
be decided by e^ch one's experience. Hot oven. 

Muffins — One egg, 1 cup milk, 2 tablespoons of sugar, 
butter the size of an egg, 3 cups flour, 2 teaspoons cream 
tartar. 1 teaspoon soda, a bit of Crystaline salt. 

Rice Muffins — Into 1 pint of flour, put 1 teaspoon of 
sugar, 1 teaspoon cream tartar, 4- teaspoon soda, rub it 
through a sieve ; add 1 well beaten egg, 1 cup of milk, 1 cup 
boiled rice. Beat well, bake in roll pan. 

Sour 3Iilk Doughnuts — One cup brown sugar, 1 
egg, 1 cup of sour milk, 2 large spoons of thick cream or 2|- 
butter, f teaspoon soda, Crystaline salt. Don't mix hard, 
handle lightly. 

Rice Croquettes — One teacup of rice, well boiled 
and mashed, in water, 1 egg, a little Crystaline salt, 1 table- 
spoon of sugar, a piece of butter the size of an egg, flavor 
with vanilla. Mold them with the hands, roll in cracker 
crumbs, and drop them in hot lard to brown. 

Stale Bread Cakes — Soak the bread over night in 
cold water, add flour enough to make a stifif batter, 3 or 4 
well beaten eggs, a little Crystaline salt, 1 teaspoon baking 
powder. Bake on very hot griddle. 

Croutes Doress — Cut into slices a loaf of baker's 
bread, beat 3 eggs well, add 1 pint milk, a little Crystaline 
salt, then dip your slices of bread in this mixture and fry in a 
hot frying pan well buttered till a light brown on both sides. 
Eat hot with sugar and butter. 

Graham Bread — Three cups graham, 2 cups flour, 1 
tablespoon sugar, 1 teaspoons Crystaline salt, 3 teaspoons 
Congress Yeast Powder ; mix thoroughly and then add sweet 
milk, or milk and water, to make a soft dough. Bake at- 
once in a rather hot oven. 



34 

Brown Bread. Two and ^ cups corn mealy 1^ rye 
meal, ^ cup flour, 1 cup molasses, 1 cup hot water, 2 cups 
sweet milk, 1 teaspoon soda, salt^ steam 3 hours, bake 1 hour. 

Parker House Rolls. One quart cold boiled milk^ 
2 quarts of flour, 1 large tablespoon lard rubbed into the 
flour, make a place in the middle of the flour, put in 1 cup of 
yeast or ^ a yeast cake. Stir and leave till morning, then 
knead hard and let it have a cool rising ; knead down at noon, 
then again at 4 o'clock, rolling out for tea. Spread butter on 
and roll up again before cutting out for tea. 

Oraliam Bread. Two and a half cups of sour milk, 1 
cup of molasses, 2^ teaspoons of soda, a little Crystaline salt^ 
graham flour enough to make a little thicker than cake. 

Sweet Favorites. Three eggs, 1 teaspoon sugar,. 1 
coffee cup sweet milk, 1 of warm water, 4 tablespoons of 
yeast, flour enough for a stiff batter. Beat yolks and sugar 
well together, stir in milk, water and yeast, stir well and set 
in a warm place to rise. When light, beat whites to a stiff 
froth and stir into batter with a pinch of Crystaline salt. 
Bake in gem pan. These are nice for breakfast if set the 
night before. 

Biscuits — One quart of sifted flour, I tablespoon of 
lard or butter, ^ teaspoon of Crystaline salt, and o teaspoons 
of Congress Yeast Powper , mix well together ; add sufficient 
milk or water to form a very soft dough ; knead as little as 
possible, and bake immediately in a quick oven. These 
biscuits may be made of graham flour, with the addition of 
i a cup of molasses. 

Johnny Cake — One and one-half cups Cerealine, 1 cup 
boiled yellow corn meal, h cup sugar, 2 cups flour, 2 table- 
spoons baking powder, 2 tablespoons melted butter, or lard, 2 
cups milk, or milk and water, 2 eggs, 1 teaspoon Crystaline 
salt. Put Cerealine and milk in a bowl. Sift flour, salt^ 
baking powder, sugar and cornmeal into mixing dish, and 
mix well, then add Cerealine and milk, butter and eggs well 
beaten. Mix until smooth, and bake in a sheet. Can also' 
be baked in mufiin tins. Mrs. Mary J. Lincoln. 



6;qKE. 



Sponge Cake. Whites of 5 eggs, yolks of 3, 1 cup of 
sugar, f cup flour, sift 4 times, ^ teaspoon cream tarter, pinch 
Crystaline salt. Beat yolks thoroughly, partly beat whites, 
then add cream tarter last ; then beat very stiff, put in sugar, 
little at a time, then the yolks, then the flour, teaspoon 
orange juice. Bake 85 or 40 minutes — moderate oven. 

Johanna Wollgast, 

Ribbon Cake — One-half cup butter, 2 cups sugar, 4 
eggs, 1 cup milk, oi cups flour, spices, o tablespoons Rumford 
Baking Powder, ^ pound figs chopped fine, | cup raisins, stoned 
and cut into pieces, 1 tablespoon molasses. Cream the butter, 
and add gradually the sugar and the well-beaten egg yolks. 
Add the milk and the flour, mixed and sifted with the baking 
powder. Add the egg whites beaten to a stiff froth. Bake 
one-half of the mixture in a layer cake pan. To the remain- 
der add the fruit, molasses and spices to taste. Bake and 
put the layers together with White Mountain Cream. 

Cheap Spong'e Cake — Three eggs beaten separately, 
1 cup sugar, 1 cup flour, 1 teaspoon Rumford Baking Pow- 
der, ^ teaspoon Crystaline salt, o tablespoons lukewarm 
water, 1 tablespoon vinegar. Beat the yolks of the eggs until 
thick, add gradually the sugar, water, and flour mixed and 
sifted with the baking powder and Crystaline salt. Add the 
whites of the eggs beaten until stiff, and the vinegar. Bake 
in a buttered angel-cake pan 45 minutes. 

Lily Cake — One-third cup butter, 1 cup sugar, ^ cup 
milk, If cups flour, 2|^ teaspoons Rumford Baking Powder, 3 
egg whites, ^ teaspoon lemon extract, | teaspoon vanilla. 
Mix as Snow Cake. Cover with chocolate frosting. 



36 

Cotlee Cake — One-fourth cup butter, ^ cup sugar, i cup 
molasses, ^ cup coffee, 2 eggs, 2^ cups flour, 2^ teaspoons 
Rumford Baking Powder, ^ teaspoon Crystaline salt, ^ tea- 
spoon cinnamon, ^ teaspoon allspice, h nutmeg grated, ^ 
pound raisins stoned and cut into pieces. Cream the butte 
add gradually the sugar. Add the molasses, well-beat 
eggs, the fruit and the coffee. Mix and sift the dry ingre 
ents, and add to the mixture. Bake in a cake-pan r>0 minul 

Cream Almond Cake — One cup butter, 2 cups sug-c 
1 cup milk, 1 cup cornstarch, 2 cups flour, 2 teaspoons Rum 
ford Baking Powder, 5 egg whites, ^ teaspoon almond ex 
tract. Cream the butter, add gradually the sugar, add the. 
almond. Mix and sift the flour, cornstarch and bakingpow-' 
der. Add alternately with the milk to the first mixture. 
Beat the whites until stiff; add and beat vigorously. This 
makes two loaves. 

SllOAV Cake — One-fourth cup butter, 1 cup sugar, 2 
egg whites, ^ cup milk, H cups flour, 14- teaspoons Rumford 
Baking Powder, ^ teaspoon vanilla. Cream the butter, add 
gradually the sugar and the vanilla. Beat the whites to a 
stiff froth and add. Mix and sift the flour and baking pow- 
der ; add to the first mixture alternately with the milk. 
Bake in a moderate oven 45 minutes. Cover with boiling 
frosting. 

Callas — Three eggs, 1 cup of sugar, 1 cup flour, 3 table- 
spoons of water, 2 teaspoons Congress Yeast Powder, a little 
Crystaline salt, and any flavor liked. These need a quick 
oven. One tablespoon in a saucer. When done, turn on a 
napkin, and press in the form of a calla lilly. Fill with 
whipped cream slightly sweetened and flavored. 

Whist Cake. Cup of butter, creamed with two cups of 
sugar. Break and stir into the mixture, one at a time, 4 
sggs. T teaspoon vanilla, | teaspoon lemon, ^ cup of milk. 2J 
cups of flour, with two level teaspoons baking powder sifted 
in it. Add flour and milk alternately, and beat till very light. 
Bake about 20 minutes. Mrs. M. R. Sanderson. 



37 

White Mountain Cake. Two cups sugar, | cups of 

butter, the whites of 7 eggs well beaten, ^ cup sweet milk, 2 

cups flour, 1 cup corn starch, 2 teaspoons baking powder. 

'ake in jelly-cake tins. Frosting — Whites of 3 eggs and 

.ne sugar beaten together, not quite as stiff as usual for 
ting — about a cupful. Spread over cake ; add some grated 
)anut, then put cakes together and put frosting and cocoa- 
on top. Use the yolks for gold cake. 

Mrs. F. W. Towle. 

Sponge Cake — Four eggs beaten separately; add ^ 

'p of sugar to yolk and J cup to white ; beat ^ salt-spoon 

'eratus, 1 teaspoon lemon. Cut in gently to the mixture 1 
.up of flour, and bake. Mrs. M. R. Sanderson. 

Strawberry Short Cake. Sift together 2 cups of 
flour and two teaspoons of baking poA'der; rub through the 
flour 2 tablespoons of butter, add 2 tablespoons sugar, yolks 
of 3 eggs, a pinch of Crystaline salt, and milk enougii to 
make a stiff batter. Bake in tin plates, making three cakes 
when baked. Let cool a little, then spread with mashed ber- 
ries well sweetened. Add the second and more berries until 
all is on. Cover with the white of 3 eggs beaten stiff" and 
sweetened. Stick with the berries. This never fails. 

Miss Campbell. 

Ang'el Cake. Put into one tumbler of flour one tea- 
spoon cream tarter, sift five times, sift IJglasses white powder- 
ed sugar. Beat to stiff froth the whites of 11 eggs. Stir the 
sugar into the eggs by degrees, very lightly, carefully adding 
3 teaspoons vanilla extract, then add flour, stirring quickly 
and lightly. Pour it into a clean, bright tin cake dish, which 
should not be buttered or lined. Bake at once in moderate 
oven about 40 minutes. When done, let it remain in tin, 
turning it upside down with the sides resting on the top of 
two saucers, so that the current of air will pass under it. 

Vista M. Towle. 

Ging-er Bread. One cup molasses (boil and cool), 4- 
cup sugar, J shortening: 1 teaspoon soda, 1 cup hot water, 
sweet or sour milk, as preferred, 1 teaspoon each of ginger 
and cinnamon ; Crystaline salt. Mrs. F. W, Robir: = cn. 



38 

Ginger Snaps. One cup molasses boiled, 1 teaspoon 
soda, 1 teaspoon each of ginger and cinnamon, 1 large mixing 
spoon of lard and butter before melted, 1 tablespoon boiling 
water. Salt. Roll thin. 

Chocolate IN'ongat. Cream J cup butter, add slowly 
1 J cups sugar, 1 egg well beaten, mix 3 teaspoons baking 
powder with 2 cups of flour ; add this alternately with § cup 
of milk to the first mixture ; melt 2 squares bakers' chocolate, 
add 3 tablespoons sugar, ^ cup milk. When cool, add to the 
cake. Flavor with one teaspoon vanilla. Frost top and 
cover with shredded almonds. Mrs. J. W. Bryant. 

Harleqnin Cake — One cup butter creamed with 2 
cups sugar, 3 eggs, 3 cups flour, 1 cup milk, 1 teaspoon cream 
tartar, ^ soda ; whites of eggs beaten stiff, mix in the order 
given, then divide the dough into four equal parts, have two 
parts plain dough, and color the third part with two squares 
of chocolate melted, and the fourth part with red gelatine 
dissolved in a little water. Bake each on Washington pie 
tins ; when all are done, put first light, then chocolate, then 
light then pink, and frost the top with white frosting ; be- • 
tween each layer put the following to stick them together : 
Beat 1 egg, and add 1 cup sugar mixed with two tabespoons 
flour, grated rind and juice of 1 lemon, add to this slowly 1 
cup boiling water, and cook in double boiler until smooth. 

Mrs. J. W. Bryant. 

Beantifnl Cake. — Two cups sugar, ^ of butter, 1 cup 
milk, 3 cups flour, 3 eggs, yolks and whites beaten separately, 
1 teaspoon cream tartar, ^ soda ; flavor to taste. 

Mrs. J. W. Bryant. 

Wedding Cake. — Two pounds currants, 1 pound raisins, 
f pound citron, 1 pound sugar (dry brown), ^ pound butter, 
8 eggs, 1^ pounds flour (browned in oven), 1 cup molasses, J 
teaspoon soda, rind and juice of 1 lemon, cloves, cinnamon 
and nutmeg. Mrs. J. W. Bryant. 

Cheap Cake. One cup sugar, ^ cup butter, ^ cup milk, 
1^ cups flour, 2 eggs, 1 teaspoon cream tartar, J of soda, f cup 
raisins. Mrs. S. L. Fillebrown. 



39 

Jenny Lincl Cake. Two cups sugar, l cup butter, 
3J cups flour, 1 cup milk, 4 eggs, leaving out white of one 
for frosting, 2 teaspoons cream tartar, 1 soda, vanilla. Bake 
in three sheets, in the third put all kinds of spices, 2 table- 
spoons molasses, 1 cup of fruit, raisins, currants, citron, place 
the dark sheet in middle, put jelly between, frost top. 

Mrs. J. W. Bryant. 

White Cake. Cream ^ cup butter, add IJ cups sugar 
gradually, 1^ cups milk, 2 cups flour, with i^ tablespoons 
baking powder, J teaspoon cream tartar, 1 teaspoon vanilla, 
whites of 5 eggs beaten stiff. Bake in shallow pans. Spread 
between marsh-mallow paste, also on top. 

Marsh Mallow Paste. Boil J cup sugar and ^ cup 
of milk six minutes. Wet ^ lb. of marsh mallow with 2 table- 
spoons water ; cook over hot water and stir till smooth. Com- 
bine the two mixtures and beat till stiff enough to spread , ^ 
teaspoon vanilla. Mrs. W. P. Hammond. 

Cream Cake. Half-pint water and 1 cup butter melted 
together. Stir in till smooth 2 cups flour. Cool and add 5 
well-beaten eggs. Drop small spoonful o inches apart on well- 
buttered pans. Bake 20 minutes. Cream for inside — 1 pint 
milk, 2 eggs, 1 cup sugar, f cup flour. ' Boil milk, add sugar, 
flour and eggs after beating together. This makes 20 cakes. 

C. A. M. Prescott. 

Cocoanut Cake. Two cups sugar, 1 cup butter, cream 
together, add 4 eggs beaten very light, 1 cup milk, o cups of 
flour, 3 teaspoons baking powder. Bake in o layers. Filling 
— 1 cup sugar, 1 egg, juice and rind of 1 lemon, 1 tablespoon 
butter, 1 cup grated cocoanut. Boil all together. Fiostin«- 
— 1 cup powdered sugar wet with teaspoon milk, spread on 
top and sprinkle over cocoanut. 

Hot Water Sponge Cake. Two eggs, 1 cup sugar, 
1 cup flour, 1 teaspoon baking powder ; the last thin": add ^ 
cup boiling water. Mrs. \V. H. Snow. 

Seed Cakes. 1 cup butter, 1|- sugar, 2 eggs, 1 cup 
milk, 1 teaspoon soda, 1 cream tartar, seeds. 

Mrs. W. P. Hammond. 



40 



Sugar Cookies. Two cups sugar,. 1 cup butter, ^ cup 
sweet milk, 3 eggs, two teaspoons cream tartar, 1 teaspoom 
soda, flavor with vanilla. Bake in quick oven. Very nice. 

Mrs. S. L. Fillebrown. 

Cream Sponge Cake. Two eggs well beaten, put 
into a cup, fill cup with sweet cream, put in mixing dish, addi 
1 cup sugar, H cups flour, 1 teaspoon baking powder, pinch- 
of Crystaline salt. Stir well together. Bake in moderately 
hot oven. Mrs. Geo. P. Ruggles. 

Orange Cake. Four eggs, 2 cups sugar, 1 cup butter^ 
1 cup n)ilk, 3 cups flour, 2 teaspoons baking powder, cream 
butter and sugar. Frosting — Juice and rind of one orange^ 
thickened with powdered sugar. Mrs. S. Rich. 

Ginger Snaps. One cup molasses (boiled), 1 teaspoon 
soda, 1 teaspoon each of cinnamon and ginger, 1 large mixing 
spoon of lard and butter before melted, 1 tablespoon boiling 
water, add Crystaline salt, roll thin. 

Lemon Cake. Two eggs, 1 cup sugar, 4 tablespoons- 
milk (real tablespoons remember), -^ teaspoon Crystaline salty 
1 teaspoon baking powder, sifted, with 1 heaping cup flour.' 
Beat yolks of eggs and sugar together, add whites well beaten, 
add milk in which Crystaline salt has been dissolved, then 
add flour. Bake in two pie tins. Lemon batter filling — Grated 
rind and juice of 1 lemon, § cup sugar, 1 egg, scant teaspoon 
"butter; put lemon juice and rind into dish, set in boiling 
water, stir in sugar. When melted and hot, stir in beaten 
egg, and stir until mixture thickens, stir in butter and cooly 
stirring once in a while ; put between pies. This cake is bet- 
ter second or third day. Mrs. Wm. R. Gerrish. 

Blueberry Cake. One cup sugar, 1 cup milk, 1 egg, 
1 tablespoon lard, Crystaline salt, 2 heaping; teaspoons bak- 
ing powder, 1 pint flour, 1 pint berries. Mrs. Twombley. 

Sand Cakes. One cup sugar, ^ cup butter, Oystaline 
salt, 2 eggs, saving out the white of one, ^ cup milk, 1 tea- 
spoon cream tartar, ^teasjoon soda. Cut with cookie cutter ; 
wet cakes with white of egg, brush over with sugar. Bake in 
quick oven. Mrs. L. S. Palmer. 



41 



Orange Cake. One cup sugar, J cup butter, 1^ cups 
flour, ^ cup milk, 2 eggs, U teaspoons baking powder; bake 
in two sheets. Filling — juice of 1 orange, juice of ^ lemon, f 
teaspoon grated orange peel, fill up the cup of liquid to f full 
of cold water, put in double boiler, add ^ cup sugar, 1 table- 
spoon corn starch, boil till thickened, add yolk of egg, stir ia 
and take off fire. Frosting — White of 1 egg, 5 ounces confeo 

tioners' sugar, ^ teaspoon grated orange peel, 

Mrs. L. S. Palmer. 

Walnut Cake. One cup sugar, scant ^ cup butter, stir 
till creamy, add ^ cup sweet milk, 1§ cups fiour, 2 teaspoons 
baking powder mixed with flour, whites of egg beaten stiff, 1 
cup walnuts floured a little. L. C. Murdock. 

Clove Cake. One cup butter, 1 cup sugar, 1 cup milk, 
1 cup molasses, 2 eggs, 1 teaspoon soda, tablespoon cloves, 
cup currants, 1^ cups flour. Mrs. W. H. Snow. 

Molasses Wafers. Heat 1 cup molasses to the boil- 
ing point ; pour on to ^ cup shortening (butter, lard or drip- 
pings), mix 3 cups flour with 1 tablespoon ginger and 1 tea- 
spoon Crystaline salt and i te isp 3on soda, add to the molasses 
mixture. Chill, roll as thin as possible. Bake in moderate 
oven. 

Gold and Silver Cake. One cup of white sugar, ^ 
cup of butter, § cup sweet milk, 2 cups flour, 2 teaspoons 
baking powder, flavor, add last the whites of 4 eggs well 
beaten. Gold cake the same, adding 1 whole egg to the 4 
yolks. Mrs. F. E. Streeter. 

Spong*e Cake. Three eggs beaten 2 minutes, add 3^ 
cups sugar, beat 2 minutes, 1 cup flour, with 1 te.ispoon cream 
tartar, beat 1 minute, J cup cold water, with ^ teaspoon soda, 
add 1 cup flour, flavor. Beat all 3 minutes. 

Mrs. G. Cole. 

Ang'el Cake. Whites of 9 eggs, 1 teaspoon cream 
tartar, beaten stiff, add I:^ cups sugar, sifted 4 times, beat to 
a stiff froth, fold in 1 cup of flour, with Crystaline salt, sifted 
7 times, bake in unbuttered angel cake tin 40 minutes in 
moderatelv hot oven. Mrs. F, T. Paul. 



42 

Fruit Cake. One-half pound of butter, ^ pound sugar, 
4 eggs, ^ cup molasses, ^ cup of jam, 1 pound raisins, 1 pound 
currents, ^ pound citron, 1 teaspoon soda, 1 cup milk or 
water, flour and spices. Mrs. G. Cole. 

Nut Cake. Cream ^ cup butter, 1 cup sugar, 2 eggs, J 
cup milk, '1 cups flour ( scant), add 1 pound nuts oi" h pound 
figs. Mrs. G. Cole. 

TXlit Cake. Three eggs, \\ cups sugar, ^ cup butter. 2^ 
cups flour, 1 pound English walnuts, 1 cup chopped raisins -2- 
cup of milk, 1 heaping teaspoon baking powder. 

Mrs. Heath. 

Fruit Cake. Two and one-half cups brown sugar, -J- 
cup molasses, 1 cup butter, 5 eggs, saving whites of 2 for 
frosting, 3^ cups flour, J teaspoon soda, 1 of baking powder, 1 
teaspoon cinnamon, 1 of mace, ^ of cloves, a little nutmeg 
and allspice, Crystaline salt, 1 pound raisins, 1 pound cur- 
rants, h pound citron, ^ cup milk, bake in a moderate oven 
from 2 to 3 hours. Grows better the longer it is kept. 

Fannie E. Streeter. 

Ladies' Cake. Yolks of three eggs, 1^ cups of sugar, 
beat together, add | of a cup cold water, mix well, add 2 
cups flour, 2 teaspoons Royal Baking Powder. Whites of 3 
eggs beaten stiff, flavor to taste, h cup of melted butter added 
last. Bake in quick oven. 

Mrs. D. G. Alden. 

Delicious Cake. One cup of butter, 2 cups sugar 
beaten to a cream, yolks of .'> eggs, 1 cup of milk, 3 cups 
flour, 2 teaspoons Rumford Baking Powder, whites of 3 eggs 
beaten, stiff, flavor. Mrs. D. G. Alden. 

White Cake. Beat to a cream ^ cup sugar, butter size 
of an Q^gg, H cups flour, 1 teaspoon cream tartar, ^ teaspoon 
soda, h cun milk, whites of two eggs. Beat to a stiff froth. 
Bake 20 minutes. Mrs. G. Cole. 

31arble Cake. Three eggs, 1 cup butter, 1 cup sugar, 
\ cup milk, 1 teaspoon soda, 2 of cream tartar, 4 cups flour. 
Take part of the batter and flavor with spices, and add i cup 
of molasses. Mrs. G. Cole. 



43 



Delicate Cake. Beat to a cream ^ cup butter, 1 cup 
;sugar, J cup milk, 2 scant cups flour, 1 teaspoon soda, 2 tea- 
spoons cream tartar, 3 eggs, 1 cup currants. 

Mrs. G. Cole. 

Silver Cake. Half cup butter, l cup sugar, ^ cup 
milk, 1 teaspoon baking powder mixed thoroughly with H cups 
flour. Beat well, add the whites of 4 eggs beaten stiff, and 
stir in lightly. Mrs. Burbank. 

Featlier Cake. Beat to a cream ^ cup of butter, add 
to this 2 cups sugar, beat well ; add 1 cup milk with 1 tea- 
spoon soda dissolved in it ; beat well ; add 1 cup flour with 

2 teaspoons cream tartar previously rubbed into it ; add the 
well-beaten yolks of o eggs, beat the whites stiff ; add them 
wdth 2 cups of flour. Beat well between each addition. 

Mrs. I. Morse. 

Soft (xiilg^er Bread. One cup molasses,^ cup butter, 
1 cup boiling water poured on the butter and molasses, 2 cups 
flour, 1 teaspoon soda, J teaspoon ginger, 1 egg, pinch of 
cloves. J. J. Maning. 

White Cake. Two cups pulverized sugar, tj^ cup butter, 
1 cup sweet milk, 8 cups flour, whites of 6 eggs beaten to a 
stiff frorh, 2 teaspoons of baking powder, 1 teaspoon extract 
lemon. 

Delicate Cake. One cup sugar, ^ cup butter, whites 
of 3 eggs, ^ cup milk, 2 cups flour, 1^ teaspoons baking pow- 
der, Crystaline salt and vanilla, cream, butter and sugar; add 

3 eggs' well beaten, then milk, beat together with egg beater 10 
minutes; fold in flour. Mrs. F. T. Paul. 

Ribbon Cake. Two cups sugar, -| cup butter, creamed 
together, 3 eggs, 1 cup milk 3 cups flour, 2 heaping teaspoons 
baking powder, Crystaline salt and vanilla. Put half the 
mixtare in 2 long tins and bake. To the remainder add 1 
large cooking spoon molasses, 1 cup raisins, stoned and 
chopped, i pound citron, sliced, spices, 1 egg, 1 large spoon 
flour. Put the sheets together while warm with jelly. The 
same rule, without fruit and with an extra egg, makes a 
nice mirble cake. Mrs. F. T. Paul. 



44 

Dutch Apple Cake. One pint flour, ^ teaspoon Crys- 
taline salt, 2 teaspoons baking powder, ^ cup butter, 1 egg, 1 
scant cup milk, 4 sour apples, 2 tablespoons sugar ; cut apples 
into eighths, and press into cake after it is in the pan, then 
sprinkle sugar on top; bake in hot oven 20 or. 30, minutes. 

Mrs. D. G. Alden. 

Sponge Cake. Three eggs, H cups sugar, beaten to- 
gether, 1 cup of flour, ^ teaspoon baking powder, mix the 
flour, add ^ cup water ; when well stirred in add 1 cup flour, 
1 heaping teaspoon baking powder, flavor with lemon juice. 

Mrs. D. G. Alden. 

Chocolate Cake. One cup sugar, ^ cup butter, 4- cup 
milk, 1^ cups flour, 2 eggs, 1 teaspoon baking powder, cream 
butter and sugar together, add eggs well beaten, then the 
milk, beat, add flour with baking powder, Crystaline salt, 
flavor to taste. Mrs. F. E. Streeter. 

Frosting. One fourth cake of chocolate, put in a little 
water in a bowl over teakettle, add 1 cup confectioners' sugar, 
add water enouo-h to make it the risfht thickness — vanilla. 

Mrs. F. E. Streeter. 

Plain Pound Cake. One cup butter, 2 cups sugar, 
4 cups flour, :') eggs ; sprinkle sugar over top. Makes 2 tins. 

Brown Sugar Cake. Two and a half cups brown 
sugar, 3 eggs, 1 cup butter, + cup milk, 3 cups flour, I cup 
raisins (chopped and stoned), ^ teaspoon soda in 1 teaspoon 
molasses, ^ of a nutmeg. Mrs. F. T. Paul. 

3Iarble Cake. ( White part ) Whites 4 eggs, 1 cup of 
sugar, ^ cup butter, J cup milk, 2 teaspoons baking powder, 
2 J cups flour, lemon. ( Dark part ) -Yolks 4 eggs, 1 cup of 
brown sugar, J cup molasses,^ butter, ^ cup sour milk, 
spices, 1 teaspoonful soda, 1^ cup flour, put in pan alter- 
nately. Mrs. N. H. Forbush, 

Mrs. Matlison'sWhini. Two pounds flour, 2 pounds 
sugar, 2 pounds butter, 12 e,2:gs, 2 nutmegs, 2 wine glasses 
rose water, in which lemon rind has been steeped, 2 pounds 
raisins, 1 teaspoon soda. Mrs. E. A. B. 



45 

Angel Cake. Whites 10 eggs, whipped stiff, add 1 cup 
flour, IJ cups sugar, ^ cup cream tartar, 1 teaspoon vanilla, 
Chrystaline salt. ^ Mrs. Home. 

Sponge Cake. Separate .5 eggs and whip both parts 
stiff, mix together again and add 1 cup of flour, 1 cup sugar, 
^ teaspoon cream tartar, Crystaline salt, flavor with lemon. 

Mrs. Home. 

Charlotte Ruse. Line mould with sponge cake and 
place in cold place. Dissolve J box gelatine in 1 pint cold 
milk over boiling water, add 1^ cups sugar, Crystaline salt, 
flavor with vanilla. When cold add 1 pint whipped cream, 
pour into moulds. Mrs. Home. 

Berwick Cake. Beat 6 eggs 2 minutes, add 3 cups 
powdered sugar, beat 3 minutes, add 2 cups flour with 2 tea- 
spoons cream tartar mixed with it, beat 1 minute, 1 cup cold 
water with 1 teaspoon soda in it, beat 1 minute, add 2 cups 
flour, beat 1 minute, flavor. Never fails. 

Lincoln Cake. One teacup of sugar, J cup butter, stir 
to a cream, then add ^ cup milk and 1 cup flour, stir well, 
then add a grated lemon and 2 eggs, beat to a froth, then 
add another cup flour, lastly add one-half teaspoon soda. 

Tip-Top Cake. Two Qggs, IJ cups sugar, |- cup butter, 
2 teaspoons yeast powder and 1 cup sweet milk. 

Fruit Cake. One and one-half cups butter, 3 cups 
brown sugar, 1 cup molasses, 1 cup milk, 5 eggs, 1 pound 
raisins, 1 pound currants, i pound citron, spices, ^ teaspoon 
soda, 6 cups flour. Mrs. E. A. B. 

Excellent Cake. Three cups sugar, 4 cups flour, 1 
cup milk, 1 cup butter, 2 cups currents, ^ cup citron, 5 eggs, 
1 teaspoon cream tartar, one-half soda, Crystaline salt, spices. 

Mrs. E. A. B. 

Delicate Cake. Two cups sugar, half cup butter, 
f cup milk, white of 6 eggs, ^ teaspoon soda, 1 spoon cream 
tartar, 3 cups of flour. Cream the butter and sugar, add the 
whites of eggs beaten to a stiff froth, beat thoroughly, add 
milk with soda, last add flour and cream tartar. 

Mrs. Geo. P. Ruggles. 



46 

Sponge Cake. Four eggs, 1 cup sugar, 1 cup flour, 1 
teaspoon baking powder. When ready for the oven add one- 
half cup cold water. Mrs. M. A. Jerauld. 

Dutch Apple Cake. One tablespoon butter, 1 table- 
spoon sugar, 1 egg, 1 cup milk, 2 cups flour, 1 heaping tea, 
spoon baking powder, put in pan, spread apples on top- 
sprinkle with sugar, add spice, served with boiled sauce. 

Mrs. M. A. Jerauld. 

Orange Cake. One orange grated, 1 cup sugar, 3 
tablespoons butter, 3 eggs, saving out the whites of one, 1^ 
cups flour, 1 teaspoon cream tartar, ^ teaspoon soda dissolved 
in a little milk. Frosting — Juice of 1 orange, white of 1 egg, 
one pound confectioners' sugar, 2 teaspoons corn starch. Cut 
the cake in three layers, or, better, bake in two thin sheets and 
spread frosting between the layers and on top. 

Miss Applis, No. Cambridge. 

Currant Cake. One cup sugar, § cup butter, 1 cup 
flour before sifting, 3 eggs, 1 tablespoon milk, a piece of soda, 
the size of a pea, 1 cup of currants. Miss Applis. 

Mountain Cake. One cup sugar, ^ cup butter, ^ cup 
milk, 2 eggs, 2 cups flour, 1 teaspoon lemon, 2 teaspoons of 
baking powder. Miss Rogerson. 

Hermits. One and a half cups of brown sugar, ^ cup 
butter or lard, 1 cup raisins seeded and chopped, 2 eggs, 2 
tablespoons milk, 1 teaspoon soda, spices, flour to roll. Cut 
in thin cakes. Mrs. Twombly. 

Sponge Cake. One cup sugar, 3 eggs, ^ cup of hot 
water, 1 cup flour, 1 heaping teaspoon baking powder, salt. 

Mrs. Twombly. 

Gold Cake. One cup of sugar, ^ cup butter, 2 yolks 
and 1 whole egg, J cup milk, J teaspoon baking powder, 1^ 
cups flour. 

Sugar Cookies. Two cups sugar, 1 cup butter, 4- cup 
sweet milk, 3 eggs, 2 teaspoons cream tartar, 1 of soda, flavor 
with vanilla. Bake in quick oven. Very nice. 

Mrs. S. L. Fillebrown, 



47 

Ginger Bread. Half cup molasses, half cup of sugar, 
^ cup of sour milk, butter size of an egg, Crystalirxe salt, ^ 
teaspoon soda, li cups flour, 1 egg, spice. 

Orange Cake. One cup sugar, ^ cup butter, J cup 
milk, 2 cups flour, 1 teaspoon baking powder, grated rind and 
juice of one orange. Mrs. T. P. Thompson. 

Molasses Cookies. Two cups of molasses, one cup 
butter, 1|- teaspoons ginger, 1 teaspoon soda, flour enough to 
roll. Roll thin. Mrs. S. L. Fillebrown. 

Orange Snnsliine Cake. Whites of 6 eggs well 
beaten with half teaspoon cream tartar, add small cup sifted 
sugar, add the yolks of 3 eggs well beaten, juice and rind ^ 
orange, fold in ^ cup flour sifted 4 times. Bake in angel 
cake tin, have oven quite hot at first, bake 40 minutes if 
possible. Mrs. T. W. Devens. 

Lady Cake. One cup sugar, i cup butter, ^ cup milk, 
2 cups flour, with 1 teaspoon baking powder sifted with it, 
whites of 4 eggs beaten to a stiff froth and added the last 
thing. Flavor to taste. Mrs. C. R. Clark. 

Spong'e Cake. Four eggs well beaten, 1 cup sugar, 2 
tablespoons cold water, 1 cup flour, 1 teaspoon baking 
powder sifted with flour, beat all together This cake keeps 
moist so well I use it more than any other receipt. 

Mrs. C. R. Clark. 

Corn Starch Cake. One and half cups sugar, ^ cup 
butter, cream together, whites of 6 eggs well beaten, mix 
with butter and sugar, | cup cornstarch, H cups flour, ^ cup 
milk, 1 teaspoon cream tartar, ^ soda. Sift cornstarch and 
flour, cream tartar and soda into beaten sugar. 

Mrs. C. M. Hicky. 

J. F=!. T^NJOeRSOlS, 

23 Main Street, - - CHARLESTOWN. 

Custom and Ready-made 



48 




Congress 
Yeast Powder, 



An Absolutely 
Pure Preparation 

FOR MAKING 

Light, Nutritious 
Biscuit, Cakes, etc. 

Do not de>troy your health by 
using Alum leaking Powders-, 

Your Gpocer will Supply You, 



T. H. LEAHY, 

HATTER and OUTFITTER 



fii'st-Class Line of Gents Furnishing 



<^s. 



No. 265 Main St., 



CHARLESTOWN. 



F. LOCKIaZOOD 



^v 



All kinds of Grinding and Polish- 
^-> ing of Fancy Tableware, etc. 

Fancy Pocket Knives Re-bladed. 
Razors Sharpened, Honed and Con- 



&}^' 



-^ ' caved. Meat cutting knives a specialty. 
31 Fulton Street, - - = BOSTON. 



PieKLES 



Grape Oatsiip. Five pounds grapes, boil and press, 
'2h pounds sugar, 1 pint vinegar, 1 tablespoon each cloves, 
cinnamon and allspice; 1 teaspoon cayenne pepper, IJ table- 
spoons Crystaline salt. Boil until rather thick, put spices in 
a few minutes before taking off. Mrs. E. A. Ferguson. 

Chilli Sauce. Four quarts ripe tomatoes peeled, 4 
peppers cliopped fine, 1 tablespoon each whole cloves, all- 
spice and pepper corns, 2 tablespoons Crystaline salt, 2 cups 
brown sugar, 1 quart vinegar. Put spices in lace bag, cook 
slowly 3 hours. Mrs. E. A. Ferguson. 

Sweet Pickled Limes. Put 2 quarts pickled limes 
in cold water and boil until soft ; cut in pieces and remove 
seeds. Boil 1 quart of vinegar and 2 pounds sugar together, 
and, if you choose, spices. Add the limes, boil together for a 
few minutes. Lucie E. Morss. 

Chow Chow. One peck tomatoes, 1 quart onions, half 
cup salt, J lb. white must;:.rd seed, 1 oz. each of cloves, ginger, 
allspice and pepper, 1 teaspoon mustard, 1 lb. sugar, vinegar 
enough to just cover. 

Mustard Pickles. Two quarts cucumbers, one quart 
green tomatoes, 1 large cauliflower, 2 bell peppers, all cut in 
small pieces, 1 quart small onions, cover with brine made of 
1 cup Crystaline salt, 1 gallon of water. Let stand 24 hours, 
then scald in the brine, drain. Make a paste of tablespoons 
ground mustard, 1 of flour, and 1 of sugar (more if you like 
them sweet), 2 quarts vinegar. Mix the ingredients with 
enough vinegar to dissolve, add the rest boiling hot, let it 
thicken, add the pickles. Mrs. Fannie E. Streeter. 



50 

Spiced Gooseberries. Six quarts gooseberries, *.) lbs. 
sugar. Cook one and a half hours. Add one pint vinegar, 
one tablespoon each of cloves, cinnamon and allspice. Boil 
a few minutes. When cold they should be like jam. Boil 
longer if not thick enough. Mrs. Morrison. 

Piccalilli. One peck green tomatoes, 1 head white 
cabbage, 2 quarts green peppers (saving out a few), o large 
Spanish onions ; mix these all together after having chopped 
them. Sprinkle over 1 cup of Crystaline salt, and let stand 
several hours or over night. Then drain and add '2^ quarts 
vinegar, .> cups brown sugar, 1 teaspoon dry mustard, | cup 
mustard seed, 1) teaspoons each of cloves, cinnamon and all- 
spice, tied up in bags. • Remove the seeds from part of pep- 
pers ; boil one hour. Mrs. B. F. Stacey. 

Quaker Piccalilli. Peck green tomatoes, 6 green 
peppers, 2 quarts vinegar, 2 pounds sugar, 1 pound white 
mustard seed, one ounce each of cloves, cinnamon and all- 
spice, in a bag, half cup Crystaline salt ; chop tomatoes and 
peppers fine, drain several hours. Put in preserving kettle 
vinegar, sugar and spice ; boil, add tomatoes and boil slowly- 
4.") minutes. Bottle cold and cover closely. 

Mrs. M. R. Sanderson. 

Sweet Tomato Pickles. One peck green tomatoes 
sliced, half cup Crystaline salt sprinkled over then, let stand 
over night ; in the morning add one quart sliced onions, 1 
pound raisins, 1 and half pounds brown sugar, 1 ounce whole 
cloves, whole allspice and mustard seed, 1 gallon vinegar, 1 
red pepper chopped fine. Cook slowly until soft. 

Mrs. F. S. Streeter. 

Mustard Pickles. Twenty-four medium-sized cucum- 
bers, I quart small onions, 2 cauliflowers, 6 green peppers. 
Cut all in small pieces, put in Crystaline salt and water over 
night, scald in the same, drain, then put in 3 quarts boiling 
vinegar, 2 cups sugar, 4 teaspoons celery seed, half an ounce 
or less ground mustard or 4 tablespoons, if cup flour, half 
of turmeric, boil 15 minutes, mix in cold vinegar, add when 
boiling. Mrs. Morrison. 



51 

Spiced Currants. Three pounds white sugar, five 
pounds ripe currants, 1 tablespoon each of cinnamon, nut- 
meg, cloves and allspice. Boil currants one hour, then add 
sugar, spices and 1 pint vinegar. Boil one-half hour longer. 

Mrs. Morrison. 

Sweet Tomato Pickles. Chop l peck green toma- 
toes, 4 onions and 6 green peppers, strew over them 1 cup 
Crystaline salt and let stand over night (next day drain 
off the water). Add to them 1 cup sugar, 1 cup horse-radish, 
1 tablespoon cinnamon, cloves and allspice. Cover with vin- 
esfar and cook until tender. Mrs. C. R. Clark. 

Pepper Relisll. Two dozen green tomatoes, 1 dozen 
green peppers, 5 large onions, chop and sprinkle with 1 cup 
Crystaline salt. In morning put in kettle with 2 cups sugar, 
4 tablespoons mustard, 1 quart vinegar. Cook three hours. 
Very nice. Mrs. C. R. Clark. 

Chili Sauce — Twelve large ripe tomatoes, 4 red pep- 
pers, 2 large onions chopped line, add 4 cups vinegar, 2 
tablespoons Chrystaline salt, 2 tablespoons sugar. Boil 2 
hours, bottle. 

Spiced Currants. Five pounds currants, 3J pounds 
sugar, 1 pint vinegar. Boil 15 minutes. Skim them out and 
add to the vinegar, 1 tablespoon each of cloves, allspice and 
cinnamon. Cook 45 minutes, then mix with currants and it 
is done. 

Spiced Gooseberries. Five pounds gooseberries, 4 
pounds brown sugar, one-half pint vinegar, 2 tablespoons 
cinnamon and cloves, 1 teaspoon mace, boil 2 hours. Plums 
and grapes can be spiced in the same manner. 

Peacll Pickles. Seven pounds fruit, 3 and one-half 
pounds brown sugar, 1 pint vinegar. Put whole spices in 
vinegar, ( common allspice, cloves, etc.,) and boil 7 minutes. 
Put in fruit and cook until sott. 

Chili Sauce. Five large onions, 8 green peppers, 80 
ripe tomatoes, 3 tablespoons Crystaline salt, S cups of vine- 
gar, spices to taste. Boil all together 2J hours. 

Mrs. Geo. P. Ruggles. 



52 



Sweet Pickled Cucumbers. Pare the cucumbers, 
take out the seeds, steam as soft as liked, and let stand over 
night in a weak brine. In the morning drain and put on 
vinegar enough to cover and let stand over night; again in 
the morning drain, heat 1 pint vinegar, o pounds sugar and I 
ounce cassia buds and pour over the cucumbers. 

Tomato Ketchup. Take 1 peck ripe tomatoes and 
cut or break them into a large porcelain-lined kettle and set 
them on the tire. When they have boiled until soft, pour 
them into a fine wire sieve, and rub them until only the seeds 
and skins remain in the sieve. Take the liquor, and into it put 
'2 quarts vinegar, 6 tablespoons Crystaline salt, 2 black pepper 
2 mustard, 1 small teaspoon red pepper and a few pieces 
of horse radish root. Put the mixture on a slow fire and let 
it simmer some 3 hours, then remove the horse-radish and 
bottle the ketchup while hot. This makes 12 bottles of or- 
dinary size used for ketchup. 

Cucumbers. A troublesome but sure way is to cover 
them with hot brine (not too strong), scalding and pouring 
it over them for 8 successive days after. Then wipe the 
cucumbers very carefully, and put them in good spiced 
vinegar. 

Cucumbers Without Scalding*. Wash cucum 
bers and soak in brine 24 hours. Wash again, wipe and put 
into 2 gallons of cold vinegar, with a bag containing the fol- 
lowing spices : half pound black mustard seed bruised, 4 
ounces ginger, 3 ounces allspice, 3 ounces black pepper, 1 
ounce of cloves, 1 bunch garlic if you like, 2 gallons of vine- 
gar, 1 onion. 

CllOW CllOW. One quart small cucumbers, one quart 
small onions, 2 heads cauliflowers, 2 green peppers all sliced. 
Put in brine for 24 hours, then scald in same, not boil. To 3 
quarts vinegar add G tablespoons mustard, flour, curry seed 
and sugar, stir into the boiling vinegar, wetting first to pre- 
vent lumps. Cook till it thickens and pour over pickles. To 
make brine use 2 cups salt, and water enough to cover pickles. 

Mrs. C. M. Hicky. 



53 

Piccalilli. Slice 1 peck tomitoes and 3 good sized 
onions. Cover with cold water and sprinkle over them 2 cups 
of Crystaline silt. Let them stand 12 hours. Drain and 
rinse several times in cold water ; chop fine, and boil until 
tender in weak vinegar. Pour off the vinegar, and while hot 
add 2 tablespoons each of all kinds of spices. One small box 
ground mustard, 2 cups grated horseradish, G green peppers, 
chopped fine, or 2 tablespoons ground pepper ; mix well, and 
cover with cold vinegar. 

Chow ClloW, (superior English receipt). One quart 
young tiny cucumbers, not over 2 inches long, or larger ones 
cut in small pieces, 2 quarts small white onions, 2 quarts 
tender string beans, each one cut in half, three quirts green 
tomators sliced and chopped very evenly, two fresh heads 
cauliflowers cut in small pieces, two heads white cabbage, 
mix together, put in stone jar, sprinkle Crystaline salt between 
them sparingly, let stand 24 hours, drain off brine and put the 
vegetables into preserving kettle, sprinkling through thsm 1 
oz. turmeric for coloring, G red peppers chopped coarsely, 4 
tablespoons mustard se:id, two of celery seed, whole allspice 
and cloves, 1 coffee cup s agar, f teacup best ground mixed 
mustard, cover in best cider vinegar, cover kettle tightly, sim- 
mer. Cook till tender. Seal hot. Mrs. Vesta M. Towle. 

Bunker Hill Hand Laundry, '' Tn'^^^mZ^''' 

In the quality of our work we have no competition. 
If given a trial we will prove our claim. Goods called for 
and delivered. Sjnd postal. 

G. A. D. MUNROE. J. II. CONLEY. 

Telephone, 332 Charlestown, 

Monument Furnituie Company, 

MAIN STKKET, CHARLESTOWN. 

Everything in the House Furnishing Line. 

Never mmd the number, look for the Monument. 



Pies yqRB PuDDmes. 



Delicious Chicken Pie. Carefully dress a pair 
chickens, remove fat and skins and simmer for 2 hours: re- 
move the chicken, add to the liquor a pint of milk thicken 
with 2 tablespoonfuls fiour creamed with one of butter, sea- 
son with a little cayenne pepper, onion juice and Crystaline 
salt. When cooked and ready to remove from iire add yolks 
of 2 eggs well beaten. Pour over the chicken which has been 
cut in small pieces and placed in baking dish. When cold 
cover with pie paste brush over with white of an egg. Very 
fine. Mrs. B. F. Stacey. 

Fried Blueberries Pies. Make a crust the same 
as for Royal Baking Powder biscuit only shorten, roll thin 
and fill with berries, sprinkle with sugar and nutmeg, fold 
over and fry in a little lard until brown ; then cover the pie 
with molasses on both sides and cook until it candies. Serve 
very hot. Miss Lillian W^iley. 

Delicious Lemon Pie. Take the juice and grate 
the rind of 1 lemon ; take the yolks of 2 eggs, 1 cup sugar, 3 
tablespoons flour, with sufficient milk to fill the dish, bake 
until brown, then beat the whites of the eggs, add 4 table- 
poons of sugar and spread over the pie. 

Lemon Pie. Grated rind of juice of 1 lemon, 1 
cup of sugar, yolks of 3 eggs, good tablespoon of flour 
dissolved in 1 cup of milk, little Crystaline salt; bake with 
lower crust in a deep plate; cool. Frosting — Beat the 
whites of the eggs, 1 tablespoon of sugar, with a fork, to a 
stiff froth, spread and brown lightly. Mrs. Frank Reed. 



55 

Sponge Pudding. Sift ^ cup of fiour twice, and mix 
with 2 tablespoons powdered sugar, wet with a little cold 
milk, then stir it into a pint of boiling milk ; cook until it 
thickens, remove and cool, add a heaping tablespoon of 
butter, yolks of 5 eggs well beaten and grated, rind of one 
lemon, teaspoon of flavoring, lastly, the whites of 5 eggs 
beaten very stiff, stir just a little. Bake in buttered pudding 
dish set in a pan of hot water 30 minutes ; serve with 
whipped cream. Johanna Wollgast. 

Lemon Pie Filling. Prepare the grated rind of 1 
and the juice of H lemons; beat the yolks of 3 eggs. Put 
on the stove in tin dish 1 cup boiling water, add 1 cup 
sugar. When well boiling add 3 teaspoons corn starch, dis- 
solved in a very little cold water ; boil from 3 to o minutes, 
stirring constantly ; remove from stove, add small piece of 
butter, grated rind and juice of lemon as prepared, and the 
beaten eggs. Line a deep plate with paste, made of half butter, 
half lard, and a little baking powder. Bake, then add filling, 
and bake until that rises well. Have ready the meringue 
made by beating whites of 3 eggs thoroughly, 1 cup con- 
fectionery sugar and juice of | a lemon. Drop on pie and 
bake in oven 5 to 10 minutes, or until cooked. 

Mrs. F. W. Towle. 

Cerealine Pudding. Four cups scalded milk, 2 cups 
Cerealine, ^ cup molasses, IJ teaspoons Crystaline salt, 1| 
tablespoons butter. Pour milk on Cerealine, add remaining 
ingredients, pour into buttered pudding dish and bake 1 hour 
in slow oven. Serve with cream. 

By Fannie Merritt Farmer, Principal Boston Cooking 
School. 

Snow Ball Pudding. One half box geletine dis- 
solved in 1 pint boiling water, 2 cups sugar, juice 2 lemons. 
Strain and cool, when quite thick add whites of 3 eggs beaten 
stiff. Beat all together until a white froth. Let it harden on 
ice. Make custard of 3 yolks, 1 whole egg, Ih pints milk, 
flavor with vanilla, pour in glass dish. Lay on jelly in form 
of snow balls. S. E. M. 



56 

Baked Tapioca Pudding — Scald 1 quart of milk. 
Put into it ^ cup of Slade's Tapioca, stir until transparent, 
about 5 minutes. Stir in ^ teaspoon of Crystaline salt, and 
1 tablespoon of butter. Let it cool slightly, beat 1 egg with 
^ cup of sugar, and h a teaspoon of Slade's Cinnamon and 
stir into the tapioca. Turn into a pudding dish and bake 
about 20 minutes, or until it puffs up and is brown. To be 
eaten hot with butter, or cold with cream. 

Mrs. M. J. Lincoln. 

Banana and Tapioca Charlotte — Cook ^ cup of 
Slade's Tapioci in 1 pint of boiling water until the mixture 
is smooth and transparent ; add 1 cup of banana pulp, ( 3 or 
4 bananas pealed and pressed through a potato-ricer or sieve) 
\ cup of lemon juice and 1 cup of sugar. When the mixture 
is thoroughly scalded, remove it from the fire and fold into it 
the stiffly-beaten whites of 3 eggs. Line a glass serving dish 
with lady-fingers or macaroons and turn the mixture into it. 
Add i cup of milk and 2 tablespoons of powdered sugar to 
1 cup of thick cream and beat until stiff with an egg beater. 
Use the cream as a garnish for the top of the charlotte. A 
pastry bag and rose tube will be found convenient in garnish- 
ing with whipped cream. Mrs. J. M. Hill. 

Fruit Pudding'. Three fourths box gelatine, 2 
oranges, 2 lemons, -S iigs, 12 dates, 2 bananas, 15 nuts of any 
kind ; dissolve the gelatine in ^ pint cold water an hour or 
more, then add a ^ pint boiling water, then add the juice of 
the lemons and 2 cups of sugar ; strain and let it stand until 
cold, then stir into it all the fruit, cut in small pieces, and let 
harden. Serve with whipped cream. 

Mrs. A. E. Ferguson. 

Blueberry Pot Pie. One and half pints of flour, 
make as for biscuits. Roll and cut out. Take 1 quart of 
blueberries put into a kettle, 1 and half cup sugar, put in 
water enough to cover berries. When boiling drop in the 
biscuits. Boil 10 minutes hard, pour into a dish all together. 
Eaten with butter when hot. Very good. 

Miss Lillian Wiley. 



57 

Pumpkin Pie. Cut pumpkin in small pieces, and just 
cover with water, boil 1 hour, then remove the cover and 
stew until water is all cooked out. I allow o or 4 hours. Rub 
through fine sieve, add sugar, Crystaline salt, ginger, cinna- 
mon and nutmeg. Stir in well, add boiling milk until it is 
quite thin. Allow 1 egg to a pie. Bake in shallow plates 1 
hour. Good crust is the making of any pie. 

Mrs. F. \V. Towle. 

Cliristinas Pudding. One small loaf baker's bread, 
stale, yolks o eggs, f cup sugar, 1 cup molasses, half cup 
melted butter 1 and half teaspoons soda, hal f cup milk, 1 
and half cups raisins chopped and seeded, -^ cup currants. 
Mix sugar, molasses and butter, add b^'aten yolks of eggs, ^ 
of the milk. Slice the bread, soak in cold water a few min- 
utes, squeeze dry, add to mixture, dissolve soda in remaining 
milk, add Crystaline salt and spices to taste. I use for spices 
a teaspoon in all of cloves, nutmeg and cinnamon. Steam 3 
hours. This receipt never fails. 

Sauce for Cliristnias Pudding. Whites of 3 
^ggs, 2 tablespoons cold water, 1 cup confectionery sugar, 
season with vanilla, beat whites thoroughly, add sugar and 
water, set over boiling water a few minutes, stirring rapidly, 
remove and add vanilla. Should be made just before serv- 
ing. My pet receipt. Mrs. F. W. Towle. 

Judge Peter's Pudding. Three fourth box gele^ 
tine, 2 lemons, 2 cups sugar, half pint each cold and boiling 
water, 2 oranges, 2 bananas, 6 figs, 10 English walnuts. 
Dissolve geletine in the cold water, add boiling water, the 
juice of the lemons and sugar, strain, let stand until it be^ 
gins to thickens, stir in the fruit, cut in small pieces, and 
turn into mould. Stir once or twice while hardening to pre- 
vent fruit from settling. Mrs. N. F. Roberts. 

Mountain Dew Pudding. Three soda crackers, 1 
pint milk, yolks Of o eggs, butter the size of an egg, Crystal- 
ine salt, bake half an hour. Whites of 3 eggs beaten stiff, 1 
pup sugar, flavor with vanilla, place on top, brown in oven. 

Mrs. N. F. Roberts, 



58 

Caramel Custard. One quart milk, 4 eggs, half cup 
sugar, Crystaline salt. Melt sugar and stir into milk heated 
not boiled, add eggs well beaten , pour in buttered pan, 
bake '2V or 30 minutes. Serve with whipped cream. 

Mrs. B. F. Stacey. 

Orailg'e Snow. Soak package geletine in cup cold 
water, add the juice of 4 large, sweet oranges and grated 
rind of one lemon. Mix the juice and peal of the fruit with 
the soaked geletine with 1 cup sugar. Let stand 1 hour then 
pour on 3 cups boiling water, stir clear, strain. When quite 
cold stir in the whites of 2 eggs beaten stiff, stir until the 
mixture is a white sponge. Put in wet mould. Serve cold. 

S. E. M. 

Fruit PucUliug. U cup graham flour, ^ cup butter, 
i cup milk, ^ cup molasses, 1 egg, ^ cup raisins and currants, 
1 teaspoonful soda, Crystaline salt, 1 teaspoonful cloves; ^ of 
a nutmeg, 1 teaspoonful cinnamon, steam 3 hours, bake ^ 
hour. Sauce. 1 cup powdered sugar, ^ cup butter, creamed 
whites of 2 egors. 

Tapioca Cream. 3 teaspoonfuls tapioca, set over 
night in 1 pint water, add yolks of 3 eggs, 1 cup sugar ; pour 
mixture into one quart boiling milk until it thickens, remove 
from fire and stir in the beaten whites of the eggs. Flavor to 
taste. To be eaten cold. Mrs. F. W. Robinson. 

Ijemon Pie. 4 eggs, H cups sugar, 2 tablespoonfuls 
flour, 1 lemon. Beat yolks, add peel of lemon and sugar, stir 
in flour, then lemon juice and lastly the water, (| cup water,) 
use whites for frosting, with 4 tablespoonfuls sugar. Makes 
two pies. Mrs. F. W. Robinson. 

Parsonage Pudding'. Take 5 slices sponge cake 
lay flat in in dish, pour a small teaspoonful sherry over cake. 
Make a custard of 1 pint milk, yolks of 3 eggs, .J cup sugar, 
1 tablespoonful cornstarch, little vanilla. When cold pour 
over cake, beat whiles to a stiff froth with 2 tablespoonfuls 
powdered sugar and 1 teaspoonful sherry ; put on top of pud- 
ding. Mrs. Carter. 



59 

Union P nil cling. 1 cup suet chopped line, 1 cup rais- 
ins chopped, 1 cup molasses, 1 cup cold water, 1 large tea- 
spoonful soda, 1 of cloves, all-spice and cinnamon, o^ cups 
flour, steam 3 hours. Mrs. C. E. Kimball. 

Crnllei'S. Three egsjs, 3 large tablespoons sugar, little 
soda and Crytaline salt. Mix hard, fry in hot lard. 

Apple Turnovers. One pint sour milk, 1 egg, 1 tea- 
spoon soda, Crystaline salt, flour to roll soft, cut the size of 
saucer, fill with apple sauce, fry in hot lard. 

Custard. One cup milk, when boiling add 2 scant table- 
spoons flour, 2 tablespoons of sugar, beating yolks of 4 eggs, 
lastly whites of eggs beaten stiff. Bake in earthen dish 20 
minutes. 

Prune Pudding-. Half pound prunes cooked until 
tender, take out piths, chop fine, add half cup sugar, whites 
of 3 eggs beaten to stiff froth, stir together with silver fork. 
Set in oven to brown, eat cold with soft custard. S. E. M. 

Chocolate Pudding". One pint bread crumbs, 2 
eggs, 1 cup sugar, 3 tablespoons grated chocolate, 1 pint 
milk. Bake and frost with whites of eggs. S. E. M. 

Peacll Pie. Line a dish or plate with pastry. Pare 
and stem peaches to fill it; cover with cup of sugar and bake. 
When cold cover with a frosting made by taking the whites 
of 2 eggs and 1 tablespoon sugar. 

Summer Mince Pies. Two crackers pounded, 2 
cups sugar, 2 eggs beaten, ^ cup butter, ^ cup vinegar, ^ cup 
molasses, ^ cup water, spice, I teaspoon cloves, the same of 
nutmeg. This makes 2 or 3 pies. 

Date Pies. Half pound of dates, stew 1 hour in a little 
water, heat 1 quart milk, pouring half on sifted dates, the 
other through the cullender ; two eggs, one tablespoon of 
sugar, spice as for pumpkin pies. One crust. Thismakes 2 
pies. 

Cream Tarts. Fill tart shells with whipped cream 
and drop a teaspoon of jelly on the top of each. 



BO 

Apple Custard Pie. Make very sweet o cups hot 
stewed apples and let cool. Beat light the yolks of 3 eggs, 
and add to apples. Stir in gradually 1 quart milk, beating 
all the while. Lastly add the whites of the eggs well beaten. 
Bake without cover. This makes '2 pies. 

Orailg'e Shortcake. One quart of flour, 2 table- 
spoons butter, 2 teaspoons baking powder. Bake ihen, 
split open and fill with sliced oranges and powdered sugar. 
Serve with sugar and cream. 

Summer Mince Pie. One egg. l cup chopped 
raisins, 1 cup water, 1 cup vinegar, I cup molasses, '2 cups 
sugar, ^ cup butter, h teaspoon each of Crystaline salt; 
cloves, allspice and cinnamon, then add 6 or 7 crackers, rolled 
fine ; makes 4 pies. Add a little more sugar, nutmeg and 
bits of butter when filling plates. Considered very nice. 

Mrs. F. W. Robinson. 

Steamed Pudding*. One pint bread crumbs, 1 eg^, 
1 cup each molasses, flour and cold water ; 1 teaspoon soda, 
^ teaspoon all kinds spices, ^ raisins, Crystaline salt ; steam 
3 hours. To be eaten with egg or hard sauce. Egg sauce — 
Two eggs, 2 cups sugar, beat 15 minutes, add 1 cup milk or 
cream ; flavor. Mrs. F. W. Robinson. 

Apple Dumpling'. One pint flour, J teaspoon Crys- 
taline salt, 2 heaping teaspoons baking powder, butter size of 
an egg, ^ cup milk, 1 egg ; cover bottom of baking dish with 
apples, sprinkle over a little sugar, roll the dough in shape, 
place over apples, bake in hot oven. To be eaten with lemon 
or vinegar sauce. Mrs. F. W. Robinson. 

Fig Pie. Two eggs, 1 cup sugar, ^ cup butter, i cup 
milk, IJ cups flour, 2 teaspoons oaking powder, cream, butter 
and sugar. Filling — t^ lb. sugar, J figs, J cup water. Cook 
until tender. Mrs. M. A. Morris. 

Cheap Fruit Pudding. One cup suet, 1 cup 
molasses, 1 cup raisins (chopped), 1 cup water, 2 cups flour, 
1 teaspoon soda, steam three hours. Serve with sauce. 

Mrs. A. M. Kimball. 



61 

English Plum Pudding. One lb. raisins, stoned, 
1 lb. currants, 1 lb. beef suet chopped tine, 1 lb. stale bread 
crumbs, rolled fine, 1 lb. flour, 1 lb. brown sugar, ^ lb. citron 
cut very small, i teaspoon each of cinnamon and gin;:;er, ^ 
teaspoon cloves, 2 teaspoon Crystaline salt, ^ cup molasses, 
grated rind "2 lemons ; mix thoroughly while dry, add ^ pint 
sweet milk, put in tin kettle, cover tightly, boil 10 hours. 
This pudding is inexpensive, and will keep for a year. 

Miss Weld. 

-Doughnuts. (Good.) One cup of sugar, 2 eggs 
well beaten, 1 cup of good, rich milk, flour, in which 2 
teaspoons of baking powder, little cinnamon, nutmeg, and 
Crystaline salt, have been well mixed. Mrs. Frank Reed. 

Doughnuts. Three eggs, H cups sugar, 1 cup milk, ^ 
cup cream, 1 teaspoon soda, 2 teaspoon cream tartar, nutmeg 
or cinnamon, Crystaline salt, flour to mold. M, T. Gale. 

Doughnuts. One egg, 1 cup sour milk with a teaspoon 
soda in it, piece of bntter size of nutmeg, Crystaline salt, 
flour to mold, nutmeg. Very nice. 

Prune Pudding. One lb. prunes, whites 4 eggs, 1 cup 
sugar. Stew prunes till soft, mash with potato-masher, mix 
with whites of eggs, beaten stiff, and 1 cup sugar, bake J 
hour in hot oven. Served cold with whipped cream flavored 
with vanilla and sherry. Mrs. Carter. 

Delicious Pudding. 1^ cups bread cut in dices 
about 1 inch square, f cup cold water or enough to soak 
bread. Let stand 10 minutes, add juice of Ij lemons, then 
beat yolks of 2 eggs and one tablespoon sugar together and 
pour on bread dices. Put small pieces of butter on top, 
bake 30 minutes. Beat whites of eggs, put on top, brown. 

Miss. L. Rogerson. 

Mince Pie. Two cups meat, o cups maple sugar, or 
brown sugar, 1 cup boiled cider, 1 cup chopped suet, 4 tea- 
spoons Crystaline salt, cinnamon, 2 teaspoons cloves, 1 tea- 
poon allspice, 2 cups raisins, 6 cups apples, 2 cups of 
pot liquor, half cup sweet pickle juice. Cook slowly 4 hours. 



62 



Macaroni Croquettes. Boil 1 lb. of macaroni in 
salted water for 15 minutes, drain it and cut into quarter 
lengths, put it back into the saucepan with a little grated 
cheese, little Crystaline salt, cayenne pepper and a gill of 
milk. Cool and mold into croquettes, either cylinder shaped 
or any other form only have them very small, dip them in egg 
and bread crumbs, fry a nice brown. Mrs. Homevvood. 

Rllllbarb Pie. Chop enough rhubarb for one pie, add 

1 cup sugar, and 1 well beaten egg. Bake with two crusts. 

Mrs. E. M. Duncan. 

Peacll Pie. Line a deep plate with crust and bake, fill 
wiih cooked peaches, add sugar to taste, beat the whites of 3 
eggs stiff, add 1 tablespoon sugar return to oven to brown. 

Mrs. E. M. Duncan. 

Cocoanut Pie. 3 eggs, 1 cup sugar, 2 tablespoons 
water, l^cups flour, Crystaline salt, lemon, 1 teaspoon cream 
tartar, ^ teaspoon soda. — Cream 2 eggs, 1 cup sugar, ^ cup 
.flour. Stir this into 1 pint boiling milk, add lemon or vanilla 
and cocoanut. Frosting. 1 egg, 1 tablespoon sugar, spread 
cocoanut on top. Mrs. E. A. B. 

Butter Pie l cup sugar, pieces of butter size of an 
^&g) '^ tablespoons extract lemon, 1 quart milk, Crystaline 
salt. Bake in an open crust and frost. 

Eiiglisli Plum PucUling. 1 cup molasses, J cup 
butter, 1 cup sweet milk, 1 teaspoon soda, 1 teaspoon all 
kinds spices, 1 cup chopped raisins, 3.J cups flour. Steam 

2 or 3 hours. 

Lemon Pie. 1 lemon, 1 cup water, 1 cup sugar, 2 ta- 
blespoons flour, 5 eggs. Grate the rind of the lemon, squeeze 
the juice, chop the remainder fine and beat all together. 
Make frosting of the whites of 2 eggs and ;^> tablespoons 
sugar. 

Banberries. Two cups raisins seeded and chopped, 1 
egg, 1 cup powdered sugar, 1 lemon. Grate outside of lemon, 
chop the rest fine. Cut rounds of paste, fill half full with the 
mixture and cover like turnovers, pinch the edges together 
carefully. Place on a tin, bake a delicate brown. 



63 

Chocolate Pudding. 1 quart milk, 4 tablespoons of 
chocolate, 4 tablespoons sugar, 2 tablespoons boiling water, 2 
eggs, 1 teaspoon Crystaline salt, 2 tablespoons corn starch. 

Snow Pudding. ^ box gelatine, ^ cup cold water, 2 
cups boiling water, 2 cups sugar, juice of 3 lemons, rind of 
one. Whites of six eggs. 

Pie Paste. One pint flour, 1 teaspoon baking powder 
mixed together, 1 cup butter and lard mixed, work ^ shorten- 
ing in flour with ice water, for top crust roll out paste,spread 
on the rest of shortening, sprinkle with flour. Makes 2 pies. 

Coftee Jelly. One pint of sugar, 1 pint coffee, half 
cup cold water, 1 boxgeletine. 

Apple Tapioca. Pare and core 3 sour apples, put in 
a double boiler with 3 tablespoons tapioca, a pinch of Crys- 
taline salt, tablespoon sugar, little nutmeg, cover with cold 
water, set on the stove. As the tapioca cooks add a little 
cold water. Serve cold with sugar and cream. 

Mrs. Twombly. 

Custard Pie. Put into a bowl a pinch of Crystaline 
salt, half cup of sugar, a heaping tablespoon of flour, stir 
them together dry, add 3 eggs, beat well, add half vanilla, 
fill bowl with milk. Bake in deep plate. Mrs. Twombly. 

Eve's Pudding. One heapiug cup of fine dry bread 
crumbs, half lb. pared and chopped apples, half lb. raisins 
chopped, 6 ounces currants, 6 eggs, 1 teaspoon each of nut- 
meg and allspice, 1 cup sugar, 1 glass brandy, 1 teaspoon 
Crystaline salt, half pound suet chopped to powder. Work 
the sugar into the beaten yolks, then add suet and crumbs 
with apples, add brandy and spices, then whipped whites, 
lastly the fruit well dredged in flour. Boil in a buttered bowl 
or mould 3 hours. Eat hot with sauce. Mrs. Homewood. 

Italian Cheese. Butter, size of a walnut, 2 cups 
grated cheese, beat butter well, then add cheese, and beat, 
add pinch of Crystaline salt, small pinch cayenne pepper, 
spread on soda crackers, and bake for l.j or 20 minutes. 

Mrs. Homewood. 



64 



Tart Shells. Half cup butter, | cup lard, o table- 
spoons cold water, 1 tablespoon sugar, 1 teaspoon cream 
tartar, ^ soda, I- Crystaline salt. While of 1 egg. Mix hard 
as pie ciust. 

Cheese Foads. One and a half cups bread crumbs 
soaked in f cup hot milk, scant cup grated cheese, pinch 
Crystaline salt, yolk 2 eggs, butter, size of an egg; beat all 
together. Put about 1 tablespoon in small cups and bake 
about 20 minutes. Serve immediately. Mrs. Homewood. 

Cheese Sticks. One cup flour, 4 heaping tablespoons 
grated cheese, 1 heaping tablespoon butter, Crystaline salt, 
J teaspoon baking powder, dash of cayenne pepper, mix with 
water to soft dough, roll thin, cut in strips and bake. 

Mrs. T. VV. Devens. 

Yorkshire Pudding-. Two eggs, 1 teaspoon Crys- 
taline salt, 5 pint sweet milk, stir in flour enough to make 
batter as thick as cream. Bake in pie tins in hot oven ; 
serve with roast beef. This is a genuine English rule. 

Miss Weld. 

Date Pie. Simmer slowly 1 lb. dates in milk to cover 
them ; sift through a seive, add ^ cup sugar, yolks of 3 eggs, 
a little cinnamon, and 1 pint boiled milk. Bake in deep 
lined dish as for custard pie ; whip whites and frost, flavor 
with vanilla, brown nicely. Makes two pies. 

Indian Pudding. One quart boiling milk, stir 
gradually, Indian meal until it becomes thick, cool, add 1 
cup molasses, 4 eggs, 1 tablespoon butter, 1 teaspoon cin- 
namon, 1 teaspoon Crystaline salt, 2 quarts milk. Bake 2 
hours, add 1 quart more milk, bake 2 hours more. 

Mrs. Howe. 

Fruit Puddiiic^. Three cups flour, 1 cup suet, 
chopped fine, 1 cup molasses, 1 cup sweet milk. 1 cup 
chopped raisins, 1 cup currants, ^ cup citron, teaspoon soda, 
Crystaline salt, cinnamon and cloves ; boil -"> hours. Creamy 
sauce, cream, ^ cup butter, and 1 cup powdered sugar, 2 table- 
spoons milk, \ teaspoon lemon, and '4 teaspoon vanilla. 

Mrs. C. R. Clark. 



65 

Baked Rye Padding. One quart boiling milk, 1 
cup rye meal, § cup molasses, piece of butter, size of egg, 2 
eggs, well beaten, Crystaline salt, nutmeg, J cup milk, put on 
the top as it goes into the oven. Bake one hour. 

Mrs. C. M. Hicky, 

Boiled Pudding:. One cup chopped suet, 1 cup 
raisins, chopped, 1 cup molasses, 1 teaspoon soda, 1 cup 
sweet milk, Crystaline salt, flour enough to make it like soft 
gingerbread, steam o hours. Sauce — 2 cups sugar, 2 eggs 
beaten 20 minutes, add h cup cream, | wine, pinch Crystaline 
salt. "^ Mrs. C. M. Hicky, 

Lemon Cream Pie. One pint boiling milk, 1 cup 
sugar, 2 tablespoons corn starch, yolks 2 eggs, grated rind 
and juice of 1 lemon, little Crystaline salt, small piece of 
butter, frost with whites of eggs. Makes one pie. 

Mrs. T. P. Thompson. 

Rhubarb Jelly. Wash the stalks well, and cut into 
small pieces, boil to a soft pulp and strain through a bag. 
To each pint add 1 lb. of sugar. Very nice, 

Mrs. T. P. Thompson. 

Orange Pudding*. Three oranges peeled and cut, 
1 cup sugar strewed on them. Then take yolks of 3 eggs, ^ 
cup flour, f cup sugar, 1 pint boiling milk, pour over oranges 
while hot, whites oE eggs with 2 tablespoons sugar beaten to 
stiff froth, put on while hot, put in oven to cool. 

Mrs. J. J. Manning. 

Yorkshire Pudding. One pint milk, 4 eggs, whites 
and yokes beaten separately, 2 cups flour, 1 teaspoon Crys- 
taline salt. Be careful not to get batter too stiff. 

Mrs. I. Morse. 

Pine Apple Pudding Two heaping tablespoons 
,2:elitine in 1 pint warm water, keep warm until dissolved. 
Pour it over 1 cup sugar, beat it well ; beat whites of 2 eggs 
to stiff froth and add, when cold, ^ pint cream, beating all 
until quite stiff , add 1 pint grated pine apple, set awaX to 
CDol. Bicore ssrvring stir. Be sure to beat it well before 
fruit is added. 



66 



Apple Meringue. Pare and core 7 apples, put in 
pudding dish, fill the apples with sugar, add lemon juice to 
each apple, f cup water, bake till soft but not broken. Make 
a soft custaid with the yolks of 3 eggs in a pint of scalding 
milk, sweeten to taste, Crystaline salt, set both of these away 
to get quite cold. When needed, beat the whites of the eggs 
stiif, add a little confectioners' sugar, arrange on top of 
apples and brown delicately in oven. Use the soft custard 
as a sauce. Mrs. D. G. Alden. 

Lemon Pie. One cup sugar, 2 tablespoons flour, yolks 
'2 eggs, piece of butter size of walnut, beat well together. 
Before putting in oven stir in well 1 cup milk and whites 
eggs beaten to froth. Mrs. N. H. Forbush. 

Green Apple Pie. Pare, quarter, core and stew nice 
tart apples, in water enough to prevent from burning. When 
tender, sweeten very sweet with white sugar, fill pie plates, 
which have to be lined and ed^ed with paste, grate on a little 
nutmeg, cover, bake 4a minutes. Mrs. G. Cole. 

Sour Milk Pudding-. One pint of sour milk, 1 tea- 
spoon soda, little Crystaline salt, 4 teaspoons molasses, 5 
handsful of Indian meal, 2 eggs. Steam o hours. 

Miss Applis. 

Cranberry Pudding. Two cups cranberries, 2 cups 
flour, 1 cup sugar, 1 cup milk, 2 tablespoons butter, 2 tea- 
spoons cream tartar, 1 of soda, steam o hours. Serve with 
rich sauce. Miss Applis. 

Blueberry Pudding. A stale loaf of baker's 
bread sliced thin, butter well cook berries with plenty of 
sugar, adding little water, if too thick, into a deep dish put a 
layer of but;eied bread then hot berries, soon until the dish is 
filled, have plenty of berries to soak the bread well, put it on 
ice. Very good in hot day. 

Lemon Pie. Juice and rind of -) lemons, 3 cups sugar, 
2 heaping teaspoons ll(mr, 1 cup cold water, 4 or o eggs, mix 
the yolks with the paste, lemon and sugar, use whites for 
frosting. Mrs. I. Morse. 



6^ 



Euglisli Fllllli F lidding'. One stale brick loaf of 
bread, grated, 10 eggs, 4^ lb. sugar, lib. suet, 1 cup molasses, 
2 lbs. raisins, 1 lb. currants, 2 ounces citron, 1 teaspoon cloves, 
nutmeg and cinnamon, 1 glass of brandy, 1 glass of wine, 
steam six hours. 

Raised Dong'lliiuts. One pint sweec milk, 1 egg, H 
cups sugar, J cup butter or lard, 1 cake of yeast, very little 
soda. Mix sugar and lard in flour, mix quite stiff, wet on 
top with water, set to raise over night. 

Indian Pndding. Two quirts milk, 3 eggs, li cups 
molasses, 1 Cup meal, 1 cup flour, 2 teaspoons cinnamon, 1 
teaspoon Crystaline salt. Bake in a slow oven 4 hours. 

Mrs. E. G. Davis. 

Apple Ca^Lird, Pireand core (5 large tart apples 
bake with a little sugar until tender. When cold place in a 
crystal dish and pour over them a rich custard ice cold, then 
pile over the top in peaks, whipped cream. 

Mrs. Eliza Dodge. 

Dainty Pndding. Half cup sugar, yolks 2 eggs, 1 
tablespoon cornstarch, ^ teaspoon Crystaline salt, scald 1 
pint milk, add this to the eggs and sugar, cook in double 
boiler until smooth, when cool add 1 teaspoon vanilla, frost 
with whites of eggs ; brown. Mrs. Burbank. 

Donglinnts. One cup sugar, 1 cup sweet milk, 2 eggs, 
little Crystaline salt, nutmeg, 1 heaping teaspoon baking 
powder, 1 teaspoon butter, flour enough to roll soft. 

Mrs. S. L. Fillebrown. 

Orange Pie. Cream, 1 tablespoon butter and J cup 
sugar, together, add beaten yolks of 3 eg2:s and whites of 2, 
add juice and grated rind of 1 orange and juice and ^ grated 
rind of 1 lemon, bike with one crust, frost with whites of egg. 
Delicious. Mrs. G. Cole. 

Lemon Pie. Yolks of G eggs, 1 cup sugar, 2 tablespoons 
flour or corn starch, rind and juice of 3 lemons, 1 cup cold 
water. Mrs G. Cole. 



68 

Cream Pie. Two eggs, l cup sugar, i cup water, ^ 
teaspoon soda, dissolved in the water ; 1 teaspoon cream tar- 
tar, H cups flour, a small piece of butter. Mrs. G. Cole. 

LeillOll Pie. Soak a pounded cracker in 1 pint of milk, 
stir into this the yolks of o eggs and whites of 2, which have 
been beaten, with ^ cup sugar, rind and juice of 1 lemon. 
Bake in a deep dish, frost with white of egg, set in oven until 
brown. Mrs. G. Cole. 

Queen of Puddings. One pint bread crumbs, 1 
quart sweet milk, 1 cup sugar, yolks of 4 eggs, butter, size of 
egg, grated rind of lemon, bake same as custard. When done 
cover with jelly or fruit of any kind. Whip whites of eggs 
stiff, add little sugar and cover with fruit, set in oven to brown. 
To be eaten cold. Mrs. Home. 

Graham Pudding*. One and a half cups Graham 
flour, 1 cup molasses, 1 cup sweet milk, 1 cup seeded raisins, 
1 egg, 1 teaspoon soda, nutmeg and cinnamon, beat light, 
steam 3 hours. Sauce — One lemon, sliced, 1 cup sugar, 1 
pint boiling water, 1 tablespoon corn starch, 2 tablespoons 
butter. Boil the lemon in water a few minutes, add other 
ingredients. Mrs. C. M. Hicky. 

Leinon Pie. Two slices bread, 1 cup boiling w^ater, 
1 cup sugar, 2 eggs, pinch of Crystaline salt, 1 desertspoon 
butter, juice and rind of one lemon, frost with white of eggs. 
Bake in open crust. Mrs. W. Fottlei . 

Figs a la Cream. One lb. figs, 1 cup sugar, 1 cup 
water, simmer till tender (2 or .'> hours). Serve with whipped 
cream. 

Scaloped Strawberries. One quart berries, one 
pint cream, whip cream until dry, hull berries, place layer of 
fruit in deep dish, sprinkle with powdered sugar, cover with 
whipped cream ; another layer berries, then cream so on until 
dish is full, having cream on top. Thoroughly chill before 
serving. Mrs. N. H. Forbush. 



FROSTIN6S AND SAUeES. 



Boiled Icing. One and a half cups sugar, white of 1 
egg, 5 tablespoons water, add water to sugar, and boil over a 
hot fire until it threads from the spoon, stirring frequently 
at first, beat white of egg fairly stiff, pour boiling sugar into 
it, add ^ teaspoon cream tartar, stir rapidly tor about oO 
minutes, then put in beater and beat until light and creamy ; 
flavor to taste. When cool proper consistency, spread on 
cake. 

CllOCOlate Icing-. Butter i size of an egg, 2 cups 
sugar, J cup milk, 1 square chocolate, boil 15 minutes, beat 
till cool, add melted chocolate and vanilla, spread between 
layers and over top. 

Filling for Cake. One cup stoned raisins, grated 
rind and juice of 1 lemon, chop the remainder of lemon and 
raisins together, add 1 cup cold water, 1 cup sugar, 1 egg ; 
cook a little until it thickens. 

Fig Filling. Half lb. figs chopped fine, 1 cup sugar, 
juice 1 lemon, I cup water, cook about 15 minutes. 

Date Filling can be done in the same way. 

Boiled Frosting. One cup sugar, oh tablespoons 
boiling water, boil to,2;ether G minutes, beat the white of 1 
egg stiff, and pour the syrup over it, beat all together till 
thick enough to spread. 

Cake (an excellent receipt). Two eggs, 1 cup sugar, 1|- 
cups flour, ^ cup milk, ^ cup butter, 1 teaspoon cream tartar, 
^ soda, Crystaline salt ; flavor as you like. Beat the eggs, 
rub the butter and sugar together, add the eggs and beat, 
dissolve soda in the milk, put cream tartar in flour, sift twice 
to make it right, add milk and beat, add flour. 

Mrs. C. R. Clark. 



70 

Hard Sauce. Cream, ^ cup butter, with 1 cup sugar 
and 2 tablespoons cream, flavor with vanilla, put in mold ; 
when taken out of mold grate a little nutmeg over it. 

Mrs. F. \V. Robinson. 

Lemon Sauce. Two cups hot water, 1 cup sugar. 
Boil together. Wet 3 teaspoons corn starch in a little cold 
water, add to boiling sugar and water juice of 1 lemon, small 
piece of butter. Mrs. F. W. Robinson. 

Foaming Sauce. Whites of 2 eggs, 1 cup powered 
sugar, 1 cup boiling milk, juice of 1 lemon. Beat the whites 
of the eggs until foamy but not dry; add the sugar gradually 
and when well mixed add juice of 1 lemon, then beat in the 
boiling milk, adding it slowly. Mrs. L. S. Palmer. 

Cold Sauce. One large egg well beaten, 1 cup sugar 
and 1 desertspoon sherry wine. Mrs. L. S. Palmer. 

Apple Frosting*. Four tablespoons grated apple, 
half cup sugar, white of 1 egg, beat 2 or 3 minutes. Add 
sugar and apple, beat 1') minutes. A nice filling for Wash- 
ington pie. 

Miss Applis, North Cambridge. 

Lemon Filling for Washington Pie. Grated 
rind and juice of 1 lemon, 1 heaping tablespoon cornstarch, 1 
cup sugar, 1 cup cold water, yolk of 1 egg. Stir until 
thick. Miss A. F. Jerauld. 

Frosting for Cake. Half teaspoon gelatin dissolved 
in 1 teaspoon water, white of 1 egg, beat all in powdered, 
sugar until stiff enough to spread, flavor to taste. Never 
fails. Mrs. T. P. Thompson. 

Apple Filling. One apple peeled and grated, 1 cup 
powdered sugar, white of 1 egg, beat egg stiff, add apple, 
beat until creamy. 

Lemon Clieese. Three large lemons, juice, and rind 
grated, 1 pound sugar, 3 eggs and 3 ounces butter. Cook 15 
minutes and pour in mould. 



Delicious Filling for Layer Cake. One cup 

raisins, stoned, chopped fine and stirred into boiling frosting 
when partly cooled. 

Apple Jelly for Cake. Grate 1 large or 2 small 
apples, the rind and juice of 1 lemon, 1 cup sugar. Beat 3 
minutes. 

Filling for Cake. Make a boiled frosting as above, 
mix with it ^ cup chopped raisins, ^ cup chopped walnuts, 1 
tablespoon cocoanut. 1 tablespoon vanilla (less if strong) 
Use with any cake. Mrs. C. R. Clark. 

Fig Filling. Eight figs and J cup raisins, chopped 
very fine ; beat the whites of 1 egg with 8 tablespoons of 
sugar; stir figs and raisins in, then add about ^ as much 
chocolate as for a large chocolate cake. 

Pudding Sauce. One tablespoon butter, 1 even 
tablespoon flour, 1 cup hot milk, 1 egg, 1^ cup powdered 
sugar, 2 tablespoons lemon juice or fruit syrup. Melt the 
butter, stir in the flour, add the hot milk gradually. Beat 
the egg, add the sugar, stir this into the thickened milk. 
Cook 1 minute, add fiavoriug. Mrs. L. S. Palmer. 




Marshall's 

Saratoga* 

Potato 

Chips, m 



Cream Sherbets and Fancy Dishes. 



Chocolatt* Sherbet. Three cups brown sugar, f cup 
milk, butter size of egg; boil together until it begins to sugar 
around the edge, about 10 minute"::. Then put in 2 squares 
of Biker's chojolate, stir until melted, take otf and beat in a 
teispoon of vanilla. Pour in heited pan. 

Oraiij?e Mariiialade with Crabapple Sauce. 

Boil Crabapple and strain them the same as for jelly. To 1 
quart of juice add 2 large oranges sliced very thin, with seeds 
removed, juice of A- lemon, boil 20 minutes hard, then add as 
much sugar as you have juice, boil until it thickens the same 
as for jelly. 

Oyster Toast. Wash six large oysters, dry on a towel 
dip in melted butter and seasoned cracker crumbs, broil over 
a clear fire until the juice flows, place the oysters on small 
pieces of milk toast. 

Cheese Sooffle. Make a white sauce of 1 tablespoon 
butter, the same of flour, ^ cup milk, stir constantly until 
thick, add 2 tablespoons grated cheese, a little Crystaline salt 
and pepper, taki from fire, add the well beiten yolks of 3 
eg^s, then the whites beaten stiff, turn in buttered pudding 
dish, hake until brown. Mrs. B. F. Stacey. 

l^ilieapple Frappe. Grate pineapple, spread on 
sieve to drain. Beat whites of three eggs to stiff froth, add 
to them gradually three tablespoons powdered sugar, beat till 
stift". flavor with teaspoon sherry and orange juice, wiiip 1 
pint of cream and fold it a little at a time into the mixture, 
add a grated pineapple a little at a time. Serve very cold in 
punch glasses with macarouns. S. E. W. 



73 

Strawberry Whips. One cup berries, l cup sugar, 
put into a bowl with the unbeaten white of one egg. Beat 
with a wooden spoon until the mixture is smooth and stiff. 
Pile lightly in a glass dish and chill. Serve with whipped 
cream. Mrs. Herbert K. Scott. 

Bailg'les. One cup sugar, 1 egg, 1 lemon grated, 1 cup 
raisins, chop all together, make pastry crust and fill in turn- 
overs. Mrs. W. H. Snow. 

Lemon Sherbet. One quart milk, 1 pint sugar, 3 
lemons and freeze. Mrs. M. A. Morris. 

Strawberry Sherbet. One quart strawberries, 1 
lb. sugar, 1 pint water, 1 lemon ; boil sugar and water five 
minutes ; freeze. Mrs. M. A. Morris. 

Stewed Fig's. Thoroughly look over and wash pulled 
figs, cover with boiling water and cook quickly until the figs 
are tender. Remove the fruit and cook the water to a syrup. 
Add the juice of an orange or i lemon. When figs are cold 
heap them in the centre of a dish, having those upon the out- 
side arran;2,ed in some regular order. Garnish with a circle 
of whipped cream around the base, or serve with plain cream. 

Mrs. M. A. Morris. 

Welsh Rarebit. Put piece butter size of walnut into 
double boiler, when ne.irly melted add 1^ cups cheese cut 
fine, ^ teaspoon mustard, speck cayenne, stir all the time, 
add ^ cup milk slowly. When smooth add 2 eggs, well 
beaten. Serve on toast or to.isted crackers. 

Oyster Rarebit. Melt tablespoon butter, add ^ lb. 
soft graded cheese, remove the hard muscles from J pint of 
oysters, and cook oysters until plump, drain and keep hot, to 
yolks of 2 eggs beaten light, add i cup oyster liquor, oysters 
stir into melted cheese. Serve on toast. 

Mrs. M. A. Morris. 

Blackberry Preserve. Seven pounds or 7 quarts 
blackberries, o pounds sugar, 1 pint vinegar, let the vinegar 
and sugar come to a boil, put in the berries, allowing them 
to renaain until thoroughly heated. Mrs. W. Fottler, 



74 

Orange Marina lade. Use thick skinned oranges, 
slice very fine (shave them) and remove seeds. To each lb. 
of fruit add o pints cold water, let stand 24 hours, boil until 
soft, cool, add 1 J lbs. sugar to each pint of juice, boil f hour, 
just before removing from fire add juice of one lemon, (5 
oranges and o lemons will make 20 glasses. Fill glasses 
while hot. Mrs. B. F. Stacey. 

Orang-e Marmalade. Peal the oranges very thin, as 
you would an apple, cut in shreds with scissors, put in cold 
Crystaline salted water, let stand over night. In the morn- 
ing strain and put into cold water, boil o hours, changing the 
water once. Peal all white off oranges and remove seeds ; 
boil skins and add to oranges free from water, after which 
add 1 pound sugar to 1 pound of fruit ; boil ^ hour after it 
begins to boil. Put away in jelly glasses. 

Lucie E. Morss. 

Fruit Plinell. One cup currants or any tart Jelly, 1 
pint preserved raspberries or strawberries, or fresh ones in 
the season for them, juice of 8 lemons, i cup strong tea, 3 
cups sugar, :> pints boiling water; cool and strain, set in ice 
chest '-) hours. Beat together jelly, fruit, etc. 

Mrs. M. R. Sanderson. 

Fig Jam. One pound figs; wash them and chop fine. 
Put 1 pint cold water and 2 cups sugar on the stove until 
they boil. Put in the figs, let them simmer. Good for 
layer cake, or to eat with cream. 

Raspberry Shrub. To ') quarts of juice add .5 quarts 
of sugar, 1 quart vinegar, put together and let come to a 
boil, not boil. Bottle and cork tightly. 

■ Grape Shrub. Put sour or wild grapes into a porce- 
lain kettle ; cover with water and let them come to a boil. 
Then strain out the juice , then add to it J as much sugar as 
juice, then oil enough to skim. Put a little in a glass and 
fill with water and you have a refreshing drink. 

Vienna Colfee. For 1 pint of cream add the white of 
1 egg well beaten. Put in the cups with the sugar before 
pouring in the coffee. 



vo 



Preserved Strawberries. To 2 pounds of berries 
add 2 pounds sugar. Put in a kettle over a slow fire until 
sugar is melted, then boil 20 minutes as fast as possible, seal 
while hot. 

Mrs. Geo. P. Ruggles. 



STAR LHReri HO0yW 

* 



Meals at all hours. 
Everything neat and clean. 



Home cooking. 

Quick seryice. 



Meals Put Up to Take Out. Prices Right. 

272 Main Street. - - CHARLESTOWN. 

WE NEVER CLOSE. 

JAMES A. HARTNETT, Proprietor. 



^. To Insure 



Success with 

these receipts 

USE 



PURE MILK 



TOOTH AKER BRO^. make a specialty of furnishing Fresh 
Milk, direct from daily inspected dairies, fresh every morning. No 
danger of tuberculosis, as mili< is analized and inspected daily. 
One dairy's milk for infants and invalids if desired. 

Send postal to TOOTHAKER BROS., 24 Kensington Ave., Somerville. 




Preservgs anb Dhihks 



Grape Preserves. With the linger squeeze pulp from 
each grape, put pulps on the fire and boil until tender ; then 
put through sieve so seeds may be taken out, now add skins 
to pulp and juice, allow a cup of sugar to each cup of fruit, 
boil all together until of a thick consistency. 

Raspberry Jam. Allow nearly a pound of sugar for 
each lb. of berries, then heat the berries and strain them, 
boil the juice until sufficiently concentrated, add sugar, and 
when juice is boiling add the pulp of the fruit, and let it boil 
only long enough to scald thoroughly. 

Currant Jelly. Put the fruit in a stone jar placed in 
a boiler of hot water, when sufficiently softened, strain 
through a jelly bag, place juice in a porcelain kettle and allow 
1 lb. sugar to 1 pint juice, while heating juice pour water over 
the sugar and place in oven, boil juice 20 minutes and remove 
from fire. Have glasses scalded and pour in while warm, 
cover with thin paper, wet with the white of an egg, and over 
all paste thick paper. 



^ RMCe St OO.. i^ 

Boston, Charlestown and Somerville Express. 

Baggage to all Trains. P'our Trips Daily. 

Boston Offices — 36 Merchants Row 105 State, and 88 Essex Streets 

Charlestown. 361 Main St. Somerville, 311, l5roaciway. 

Residence, 40 Everett Ave., Somerville. 

Telephone, 3714, Boston. Order Box, 79 F. H. Market. 



6/INBIES. 



Chocolate Sliei'bet. Foursquares of Baker's choco- 
late, o^ cups white sugar, 1 cup milk, piece of butter size of 
an egg, 1 teaspoon vanilla ; melt chocolate in frying pan, add 
sugar and milk well mixed, boil until when poured in cold 
water, seems done, just before taking olT add butter and vanilla 
and chopped walnuts, removing from lire, beat until creamy, 
pour into buttered pans and when hardened cut in squares. 

Cream Candy. One pint sugar, ^ pint water, 3 table- 
spoons vinegar or one teaspoon cream tartar, butter size of 
an egg, or a hickory nut is better, boil while stirring until it 
threads. Pull as soon can be handled. 

Butter Tafly. Two cups light brown sugar, 4 table- 
spoons vinegar, 2 tablespoons water, ^ cup butter, boil till 
brittle in water. 

Chocolate Caramels. Two cups brown sugar, 1 
cup molasses, ^ cuj:) milk, ^ lb. chocolate, butter the size of 
an egg, boil 20 minutes, stirring constantly. Tour into 
buttered pans, when partly cooled, cut into squares. 

Emma F. Alden. 

Fudg'es. Two cups sugar, ^ cup milk, i cup water, 1^ 
inches butter, 2 squares chocolate, added after it has cooked 
a while. When done, pour into buttered tins and stir till it 
sugars, cool. Mrs. D. G. Alden. 

Fruit Candy. One lb. dates, 1 lb. figs, 1 lb. English 
walnuts, chop and mix, roll out J inch thick, cut in squares 
and roll in powdered sugar. 



THE WORLD'S BEST. 



The Hub Ranges are everything a 
range shou d be, Large, Handsome and 
Perfect Bakers. 

The Hub Ranges are used exclusively 
by the New York and Boston Cooking 
Schools, and are found to be the best fit- 
ted for their purposes. It is self evident 
tint a range that will suit the exacting 
demands of the cooking schools, must be 
the best for f.imily use. The Hub goods 
are sold by leading dealers throughout 
the country. In places where we do not 
have an ajent, we offer special induce- 
ments for purchasers to buy direct of us. 

Our double stores, the largest of the 
kind in New England, are located at 48- 
fO-.rJ-5l Union Street. 



Smith & Anthony Go, 



MVKERS OF 




HUB RANGES AND HEATERS, 

48 to 54 UNION STREET, BOSTON. 

'^r'HE VERY BEST WAY to know whether Dobbins' 
^^ Electric Soap is as good as it is said to be, is to /ry /^ 
yourstlf. It can't deceive JY7.Y. Only be careful not get an 
imitation. There are a great many Electrics and Magnetics, 
all intended to deceive the public into supposing that they 
are Dobbins' Electric, or just as good. We have made this 
since 1<SG'.). It is the original Electric, and is guaranteed to 
be worth four times as much as any other soap ever made. 
For washing anything, from the finest lace to the heaviest 
blanket, it is without a peer. Only follow directions. 

READ CAREFULLY all that we say on the 
two wrappers around the soap, and then see for yourself, 
whether or not you cm afford to ever use any other soap than 
this, after having heard its own story, told you by your own 
test of it. 
D333INS SOAP MANUFACTJRmG CO,, Philadelphia, Pa. 



TIMELY SUGGESTIONS, 



To take oil out of carpets or any woolen stuff, apply buck- 
wheat flojr plentifully. 

Common soda is good for polishing tinware. 
To remove crating from inside of tea kettle, fill it with 
water, to which has been added a large piece of salsoda. 
Boil 1 hour. 

Hot water, containing a little chloride of lime, poured into 
drains twice a week, will prevent all unpleasant odors. 
Copperas water may be used in the same way. 

How to keep lemons any length of time, put in dish of 
water and change once a week. 

To prevent bleeding at the nose, bathe the feet in hot 
water, drinking at the same time a pint of cayenne tea, or 
hold both arms above the head. 

Sleeplessness. — Wet a cloth in cold water, and lay it on 
the back of the neck, fold a towel smoothly over it. 

Weights and Measures. — One pint or 2 cups of granulated 
sugar is 1 pound. One quart sifted flour 1 pound; 2 cups 
butter packed 1 pound ; 8 even talbespoons 1 gill. 

Substitute for Cream in Coffee. — Beat 1 egg to a froth, 
add butter size of walnut, turn hot coffee on it gradually. 
It is difficult to tell this from cream. 

Another Way. — The white of 1 egg beaten light put in a 
coffee cup with a small piece of butter. Pour the coffee over 
egg, stirring so that it will not curdle. 

Boil onions in milk and water deminishes the strong taste. 
A piece of charcoal in the pot while boiling cabbage, re- 
moves bad odor. 

A little cream tartar improves frosting, also keep eggs in 
cool place, is a great help. 

When canning fruit, set your glass jar in a pan of cold 
water or folded cloth dipped in cold water, 




BOSTON PUBLIC LIBRARY 



illllll 

3 9999 05035 350 5 



^D 



Sprinkle flour over suet when chopping, to prevent the 
pieces from sticking together. 

Keep cranberries in cold water in a cool place. 

When baking cake, set a dish of water in the oven to keep 
cake from scorching. 

In making puddings or pancakes, 2 tablespoons of snow is 
equal to 1 c^g, if stired in quickly. 

OPEN ALL NIGHT. 

GREEN'S DAIRY LUNCH, 

"TBTiBif 224: MAIX STREET. 

Order Cooking a Specialty. 

Sand.viches of All Ivinils. BestCoffea. Neat and Clean. A Trial Soliciied. 
H. W. GREEN, Proprietor. Charlestown. 

Steweil Mllfcfcoil. Three pounds of forequirter of 
mutton. Wip^ wi:th a dimp cloth and remove the pink skin, 
the tine splinters of bone, and as much of the fat as possible. 
Put loosely into a granite stew pan, add enough boiling water 
to cover, and c:ok very slowly until the meat is tender. Put 
with it one medium sized onion cut into quarters. When it 
his cooked 1 hour add 1 teaspoon of Crystaline salt and ^ 
saltspoon of Sl.ide's pepper. While cooking add boiling water 
to replenish that which has boiled away. When the bones 
will slip out eisily remove from the fire, take out the largest 
of the bon s, and set it away to cool. When the fat is hard 
remove every pnrticle of it. Put the meet over the hre again, 
and if the broth be too strong, add water to dilute it and add 
more seasoning if desired. When boiling, add for about 1 
quart of liquid, 2 tablespoons of Slade's Tapioca, boil o min- 
utes longer, and serve. The meat and broth may be served 
separately if desired. A fowl cut up as for fricassee, or por- 
tions of the forequarter of veal may be prepared in a similar 
way, and the broth will be delicious thickened with Slade's 
Tapioca. 



Boston Public Library 
Central Library, Copley Square 

Division of 
Reference and Research Services 



The Date Due Card in the pocket indi- 
cates the date on or before which this 
book should be returned to the Library. 

Please do not remove cards from this 
pocket 




N 




A, 




,^ 





'I' 



.>?/ 



'1 , 




