JS^ 






• » • 





5 



4kM-m 







sues 



ron 



V 




,'-.-■>> 




Shelf No. 






HeliotyBe mnttltf 1.0. 



>^ 



^ 



,^ 



I 




8MAY23 




n/ 



^^Ci^UKE^T^l 



jM^faraangmnHMnaMfct 



rOR nPASTS AND IHTALIDS. 



SWIN 







5 







LASS 



Is the Best. 



FOR JELLIES. &c. 



s 









'S 



G 





Is the Best. 



■!■ ■ iiiwf Ti n n i i mnn iiii i i ni ii rMn iwi w i 



BONNES BOUCHES 



AND 



1Relt5(3ablc IDisbcs tor :e3reafita5t aitb 2Luncbeoii. 



BONNES BOUCHES 



AND 



!|[$Ii$^itH$ lbl/ij$ 



FOR BREAKFAST AND LUNCHEON, 



BY 



MRS. LOUISA E. SMITH, 

Author of "Hoiue Washing" and 
Late Instructress at the Foj'sytk Technical College. 



Iv 



>., ,' 



'rSJiyt^fj?;- 



WARD, LOCK, BOWDEN AiMD CO., 

LONDON : WARWICK HOUSE, SALISBURY SQUARE, E.G. 

NEW YORK : EAST I2TH STREET. 
MELBOURNE: 3 AND 5, ST. JAMES's STREET. SYDNEY: 53, YORK STREET. 

1893. 

[All rights reserved] 



r\'> 



a. 



IDeMcatc^ 

BY GRACIOUS PERMISSION 

TO 

HER SERENE HIGHNESS 

THE PRINCESS VICTORIA MARY 
OF TECK, 

BY 

HER MOST FAITHFUL AND 

GRATEFUL SERVANT, 

THE AUTHORESS. 



PREFACE. 



In the present age, as it was in times of remote antiquity, 
good cooking is a source of enjoyment to persons in all 
ranks and conditions in life. We are always in search of 
new delicacies, each one of us endeavouring to improve 
upon the dressing, cooking, and serving of little dainties of 
every description. 

In these days it is considered desirable that a table be 
furnished with the most exquisite dishes, not only delightful 
to the taste, but pleasing to the most fastidious eye. To 
many, a good meal is one of the greatest enjoyments of 
human life. 

There are certain rules to be learnt in all arts, before at- 
taining perfection : and those who desire to become masters 
of the arts in question, must conform to these rules. But 
this alone is not sufficient. Experience and continual 
practice are worth a bushel of theory, if you wish to be 
perfect. A cook of genius will invent new dishes to please 
the taste and palate of those for whom she is working. 
What is one man's food is another man's poison. The 
culinary art, like all others, is subject to change. The 
variations in cooking have led me to publish this work, 
and I can confidently state that any recipes found here are 
not borrowed from other books, the ideas being, on the 
contrary, entirely my own, and the result of practical and 
economical experience. 

vii 



vili PREFACE. 



I have made this work so plain that the greatest novice, 
who wishes to please, can cook either a sumptuous break- 
fast, suitable for a peer, or a simple repast for the clerk or 
mechanic. On the other hand, a skilled cook will find in it 
recipes for novelties, which have never before been printed ; 
whilst a nurse has only to peep into its pages to find new 
dishes that will please the most delicate palate, in the sick- 
room or the nursery, and others that will be found equally 
suitable for children, without putting their digestive organs 
out of order. 

Every department of cooking is arranged under its sepa- 
rate heading. When I think of the number of cookery 
books already before the public, and with what contempt 
some of them are read, I feel nervous lest this one should 
meet with the same fate. I am not afraid of my dishes 
being called extravagant, and at the same time I hope I 
have not erred in the direction of parsimony. As a child 
of twelve years I was able to put upon the table a well- 
cooked dinner ; since then, for twenty years, I have never 
troubled if my cook wished to leave me ; for I once served 
a dinner of eleven courses for one of the greatest epicures 
and connoisseurs in England, with only the help of one 
servant-maid. 

The recipes for gravies, without which no entree is perfect, 
were given me by the same French chef who initiated me 
into the mysteries of made dishes. 

It is my intention to arrange the recipes in this book in 
the manner in which they should be dressed and brought 
to table, and I trust the work will be found by my readers 
fully as useful as many of the more elaborate volumes. The 
"wee-bits," so much admired and eaten hy gourmets before 
and just after dinner, will be found on a leaflet by them- 
selves at the end of the book. 



BONNES BOUCHES 

AND 

1Rcli5bat)le Bisbes tor Brcafttast auD Xuncbcoiu 

f4 

AS this is not meant to be a voluminous work, my 
intention is to dispense with unnecessary preKmi- 
naries, and at once proceed to give a plain and lucid de- 
scription of the manner in which breakfasts and luncheons 
should be prepared and brought to table. 

Before commencing the practical part of this book, how- 
ever, I would like to advise all good housewives to see that 
the cloth is properly and prettily arranged. Salad or cress 
should be placed thereon, with a vase of flowers or ferns 
in the centre ; the plate should be bright, and the napery 
white as snow ; while a pile of plates, and all the little 
things that will in the course of the meal be required, should 
be near at hand. The dishes should be brought to table 
hot from the fire, by the maid, who should have a clean 
apron always in readiness. Attention to these little details 
will obviate the necessity for bustle ; the conversation will 
not be interrupted, and the mistress of the house will have 
the satisfaction of knowing that husband and sons have 
gone off to business with light hearts, having partaken of a 
substantial breakfast. 

p.B. B 



[■ 



FISH IN JELLY. 



( 



When I was quite young my mother had a serious illness, 
so it was arranged that a distant cousin should come to 
reside with us. From her I first learned the manner and 
art of preparing some of the recipes given in this book. 

I shall never forget the pleasing appearance of the break- 
fast-table on the Thursday morning following the arrival of 
j>. .iiy cousin. But in my enthusiasm I must not forget to 
describe the two little dishes which drew down applause 
from all present. One was fish in jelly, which tasted as 
delicious as it looked. This is how it was made : — 

Fish in Jelly. 

Clean well the head of a codfish and put it into three 
quarts of water with a calf's foot or cow's heel, a small stick 
of horseradish, one onion, three blades of mace, a dust of 
white pepper, a shred of lemon peel, and a slice of gammon 
or lean bacon. Let the whole simmer till it begins to 
glutinise, then strain it off, remove every particle of fat, 
clear it from the sediment, boil it up with a glass of good 
sherry, the whites of four eggs well beaten, and a piece of 
lemon peel. Simmer for three minutes longer, without 
stirring, then throw in the shell of an egg, and put on one 
side to settle for half an hour. Strain the liquid through 
a bag or hair sieve, put a little of it into a well-soaked 
mould, then lay in the fish prepared in the following man- 
ner, and cover with the remainder of the jelly : — 

Wash and clean well four small mackerel or fresh her- 
rings, cut off the heads, remove the bones by slitting the 
fish down the back, then roll them up, and lay each in a 
clean cloth to dry. Shave an onion finely into a dish, dust 
over it a little pepper and salt, and lay in the mackerel, 
putting the roes between each ; cover them with ordinary 
vinegar, and add a dessert-spoonful of mixed whole spice, 



KNUCKLE OF VEAL IN JELLY. 



four small chillies, and a teaspoonful of sugar ; cook in a 
moderate oven for about three hours. When cold, the fish 
is ready to be drained from the vinegar and laid in the 
jelly. 

Sheep's Kidneys. 

This kept us going until a dish of sheep's kidneys 
appeared, swimming in their own gravy, with little rolls of 
nicely grilled bacon and tufts of parsley between each. I 
found there was a secret about the cooking of these. Two 
small basins were placed in readiness in front of the 
kitchen fire, one empty, the other half full of clarified 
butter ; each kidney was then held before the glowing coal 
over the empty basin for ten minutes, being occasionally 
dipped into the heated butter, A little white dish stood ai 
the corner of the table, containing three half lemons, larded 
with cayenne ; a squeeze of the juice from these added 
piquancy to this tempting dish. 

Making Coffee. 

On Friday morning I was down early, as it was my 
custom to grind the coffee and make it myself, in order to 
be sure that no chicory was popped in. I found the kettle 
already boiling, the pot well warmed, and the coffee ground, 
I had simply to pour the water on it. The table was per- 
fectly arranged as before; at one end stood a mould of 
some kind of jelly, with a wreath of watercress around it. 
This jelly, as I afterwards discovered, was made of knuckle 
of veal in the following manner :— 

Knuckle of Veal in Jelly. 

Chop well a small knuckle of veal, about three pounds 
jn weight, put it into a clean stewpan, with enough water to 



TOMATOES ON TOAST. 



cover it, add a blade of mace, one onion, a teaspoonful of 
Jamaica peppercorns, and a sprig of thyme, all tied in a 
muslin bag. Simmer for two hours, remove the bag. Then 
with two forks pull the meat from the bone, season with a 
mustard-spoonful of made mustard, the juice of a lemon, 
a dash of cayenne, a tablespoonful of mushroom ketchup, 
and pepper and salt to taste. Pour the whole into a well- 
oiled mould, and set it in a cold place for twelve hours. 
It will turn out perfectly the next morning. Dish on an 
ornamental paper. 

Tomatoes on Toast. 

As soon as we were seated, a dish of tomatoes served on 
well-buttered squares of toast was brought in. The tops 
of the tomatoes had been taken off, some of the seeds 
removed, and the cavity filled with parsley finely chopped, 
some picked leaves of sweet herbs, a little cold grated 
ham, and a lump of butter, all mixed together with a raw 
egg ; they had then been dipped into a light batter and 
fried quickly. These I ascertained had been placed ready 
for cooking the previous night. 

Sardine Salad, Grilled Bloaters, Haddock, etc. 

On Saturday my curiosity for novelties led me to appear 
a little earlier than usual. In the centre of the table, piled 
in one large block on a dish, was a sardine salad, with little 
heaps of freshly skinned shrimps around it. Another dish 
consisted of bloaters which had been blanched, boned, and, 
with the roes, prepared the previous night. In the morn- 
ing the fillets had been dipped into heated butter, dusted 
over with white pepper, and grilled. The roes were trailed 
through a little salad oil and placed in the oven on a tin 
while the bloaters were cooking. A fillet of the fish and a 



FILLET OF BEEF. 



roe were then laid on squares of toasted bread, well but- 
tered, and a little lemon juice and cayenne sprinkled on 
top. These were arranged on an ornamental paper, gar- 
nished with tufts of watercress. 

On Sunday morning, instead of our usual breakfast of 
dried haddock, there was a dish filled with rolled fresh 
herrings with the tails sticking up. They had been pickled 
in highly spiced vinegar, with finely sliced onions scattered 
here and there, and, like the mackerel, left to cook in the 
oven all night. 

Fried Ham and Fowl, etc. 

Our next dish had the appearance of sausages, but on 
trial we found they were made from the cold ham and fowl 
left from the previous day's dinner. The ham had been 
cut into seven or eight thin slices ; over each was spread 
some finely minced fowl and a teaspoonful of mixed herbs, 
such as sweet lemon thyme, parsley, and tarragon leaves, also 
minced small, and a sprinkling of bread-crumbs, pepper and 
salt. The slices were then rolled up and fastened with a 
skewer, dipped into a beaten egg, screened with broken 
vermicelH, and fried a golden brown in clarified dripping. 
They were then drained and arranged on a hot dish with 
chicken's livers around them. The livers had been blanched 
in heated butter and cooked in the oven while the ham 
rolls were being fried. They came to table on an orna- 
mental paper, garnished with a wreath of watercress, and 
red radishes peeping out from among it. 

Fillet of Beef. 

As none of us liked under meat, my cousin removed the 
fillet from the sirloin we had on Sunday, and out of it 
made one dish for Monday's breakfast. She carved it so 



MUSHROOMS AND HAM. 



as to make six slots, filled them alternately with minced 
parsley and grated bacon, and put it into a Dutch oven 
before a bright fire for twenty minutes. Meanwhile she 
cooked six fine tomatoes in the oven. The beef was placed 
in the centre of the dish with the tomatoes around it, and 
garnished with a wreath of. well-washed watercress. The 
dish that accompanied the beef to table was composed of 
two fresh mackerel, split down the back, boned, screened 
with chopped parsley, laid in a pan with a lump of butter, 
and well cooked, on the top of the stove. Just before 
serving, the juice of a lemon had been squeezed over them. 

Mushrooms and Ham. 

On Tuesday morning we had a dish of mushrooms and 
ham. My cousin had prepared the mushrooms by skinning, 
picking, and blanching them the night before. They were 
laid in a buttered pan with a tablespoonful of salad oil, and 
a dust of pepper, covered with a plate, and set over a slow 
fire. When half cooked, the plate was removed, the mush- 
rooms turned and finished off quickly. They were then 
arranged on a dish with thinly sliced grilled ham, and 
sprigs of watercress around. 

Pickled Salmon. 

On Saturday night I had brought home a small salmon, 
which we had for dinner on Sunday, and it was delicious. 
As soon as it left the table, my cousin popped it into some 
well-spiced vinegar, which had just been allowed to come 
to a boil. This also appeared at breakfast on Tuesday 
morning, well soused in the vinegar and garnished with 
fennel. I ascertained that if covered closely this would 
have kept good for a fortnight. 



LARKS ON TOAST. 



Sundries and Snacks. 

On Wednesday morning there was an ornamental mould 
at one end of the table, garnished with red and white 
radishes and tufts of watercress. My cousin had given me 
a plate of soup on Tuesday night, as I had taken a little 
cold owing to the change in the weather. The mould was 
made from four pounds of shin of beef. After taking away 
my broth she had added an onion stuck with cloves, a cluster 
of mixed herbs, one tablespoonful of mushroom ketchup, the 
same quantity of Holbrook's Worcestershire sauce, a dash 
of vinegar, and a dust of cayenne, and allowed the shin to 
simmer slowly for three hours. When it was nearly cold 
she had pulled it to pieces with two forks in the same way 
as the veal, and put it into a mould in a cold place. It 
turned our beautifully next morning. At the other end of 
the table we had a dish of fish cakes. The codfish left 
from Tuesday's dinner had been finely minced and mixed 
with an equal quantity of freshly boiled potatoes mashed 
with butter and milk. The whole was seasoned with pep- 
per, salt, a dash of nutmeg, the same of powdered mace, 
and a tablespoonful of anchovy sauce. The mixture was 
then made into cakes, and fried a nice brown colour in 
lard, drained, and sent to table on a dish covered with an 
ornamental paper. 

Larks on Toast. 

We had larks on toast for breakfast on Thursday morn- 
ing. They were drawn and trussed as for the spit, a lump 
of butter dusted with cayenne put into the body of each, 
and then gently roasted for twenty minutes. My cousin 
had boiled about two pounds of bacon, which she had 
allowed to simmer for an hour and a half. She had stripped 
off the rind and grated over the top some fine bread crumbs. 



8 GRILLED MUTTON WITH POACHED EGGS. 



Grilled Mutton with Poached Eggs. 

For Friday morning we had grilled mutton and poached 
eo'Sfs. Some slices of underdone mutton had been cut from 
the leg. Each slice had been dusted with cayenne, dipped 
into heated dripping, and broiled carefully over a clear fire. 
Then they had been laid on a hot dish before the stove, 
while six fresh eggs were poached, neatly trimmed, and one 
laid on each slice of meat. Around these was poured a 
delicious sauce. A gill of good gravy had been put in 
a stewpan with a tablespoonful of mushroom ketchup, and 
thickened with a lump of butter rolled in flour, and stirred 
over the fire for a few minutes. Finely chopped parsley 
was scattered over all. A dish of potato straws was served 
with this. 

Pigs' Kidneys and Dried Haddocks. 

On Saturday morning we had three pigs' kidneys ; they 
had been cut lengthwise down the middle (but the knife 
had not been allowed to go right through), well seasoned 
with pepper and salt, brushed over with a beaten tgg^ dipped 
into bread crumbs which had been mixed with some 
chopped parsley and shallot, a skewer run through to keep 
them open, and then grilled over a clear fire for ten 
minutes. When done they were placed on a dish, one 
ounce of butter was mixed with the juice of a lemon, a 
little pepper, and a teaspoonful of mustard, and a third of 
the mixture was placed on each kidney. The whole was set 
in the oven for one minute. This was garnished with slices 
of lemon and watercress. 

Dried Haddock. 

A large dried haddock accompanied the kidneys. It had 
been scalded, and laid, back downwards in a Dutch oven 



FEICASSEE OF CALFS HEAD, 



before a bright fire, then dusted over with nutmeg, pepper 
and salt. When half cooked a gill of good milk was added, 
the fish dished very hot, and sent to table with a plate of 
watercress. 

Mackerel and Omelettes. 

On the following Sunday morning we had mackerel, 
cooked in the same way as the pickled fresh herrings, which 
all of us enjoyed very much. 

Omelettes. 

The omelettes were delicious. As each one was cooked, it 
w^as brought to table on a separate dish, hot from the pan. 
My cousin never made milk one of the ingredients in her 
omelettes ; if anything, she added the juice of a lemon, or a 
little water ; and she never turned them. Here is the 
recipe : — 

Break three eggs into a basin, beat them a little. Well 
butter an omelette pan, then pour in the eggs, hold it over 
a clear fire. On no account let it burn. Have ready a tea- 
spoonful of a mixture of finely minced ham, parsley, and 
shallot, to add to each omelette. Scatter this on the egg a 
moment after they have been poured into the pan. If this 
recipe be carried out properly, the omelette will be as light 
as a feather, and will at once rise to the top of the pan. 

Fricassee of Calf's Head. 

We had a most taking dish for Monday morning's break- 
fast, made from the remains left from a calf's head. The 
meat had been laid in cowheel gravy, and stewed gently for 
fifteen minutes in a clean saucepan. To this was added 
three ounces of lean ham, finely chopped, a small minced 
shallot, a tablespoonful of ketchup, the juice of a lemon, and 



lO rOAST, BACON, AND EGGS, 

a dust of cayenne. Half of the jelly was poured into a 
well-oiled mould, then part of the meat and the half tongue 
were laid in, and the rest of the jelly poured on ; it turned 
out beautifully. Everything Miss Bell sent to table was 
garnished, but this did not cost much, as she used so little; 
and the improved appearance of the dishes fully repaid her 
for all her trouble. 

On Tuesday morning my sister was suffering from the 
effects of over-exertion, and was unable to come down to 
breakfast with the rest of us. The little dish that my cousin 
took up to her was as follows : — 

Toast, Bacon, and Eggs. 

Two or three neatly cut pieces of nicely toasted bread 
were laid on a warm plate, and the gravy that ran from a 
joint of meat poured over them, they were then sprinkled 
with salt, and garnished with parsley. Often, as Miss Bell 
said, a prettily arranged dish will tempt a poor appetite, 
when a badly served one is refused. The " invalid's tea," 
served with the toasted bread, she made by breaking a new- 
laid egg into a vessel, and beating it a little; then she passed 
it through a fine sieve into a cup of well-made, sweetened, 
and creamed tea, stirring it the whole time. For breakfast 
downstairs we had an artistic dish of eggs, bacon, and 
toast. My cousin had toasted some pieces of bread, 
clapped each one between her hands, and cut off the 
crusts ; then she poured upon them some of the liquor 
from the thin slices of streaky bacon she had been grilling. 
The bacon was nattily arranged upon the toast, and around 
it were five neatly trimmed poached eggs, garnished with 
tufts of watercress. 

On Wednesday, my sister had an early cup of tea, and at 



SIA'ONG SOUF. Ti 

half-past ten the most delicious little dish imaginable was 
taken her. 

Eggs and Port Wine. 

It consisted of a new-laid egg mixed with a tablespoonful 
of cold water: then a glass of invalid port wine, and half 
the quantity of water, a dash of nutmeg, and a teaspoonful 
of castor sugar were put into a saucepan, and well heated ; 
the egg was strained and stirred in gradually This mixture 
was then poured into a glass and served with sponge cake. 

On Tuesday my father said to me, " I feel sure, Louisa, 
that as your cousin is such a good cook, she could some- 
times give us some sweets for breakfast." Accordingly, 
with our fish — soused salmon — there was on Wednesday 
morning a dish of jam squares. 

Jam Squares. 

She made a good rich paste, rolled it out thin and cut 
into pieces. Over these was spread a small quantity of jam, 
then they were doubled over, cut into small square shapes, 
laid on a piece of buttered paper, placed on a baking plate, 
and iced over. They were baked in a moderate oven for 
twenty minutes, but not allowed to colour. When arranged 
on the dish they were garnished tastefully with red Virginia 
creeper leaves.- These jam squares were eaten cold. 

On Thursday morning at half-past ten, after her early 
cup of tea, my sister had some soup, the ingredients of 
which none of us knew until my cousin told us. 

Strong Soup. 

Put a cowheel into a pan with a lean breast of mutton, 
two ounces of rice, a parsnip, carrot, and turnip ; add two 
quarts of water, and a teaspoonful of ketchup. Allow the 



12 HOT CRAB, 



whole to simmer for three hours, remove every particle of 
fat. When a little is required for use, warm it in a stewpan, 
add a small glassful of sherry or a tablespoonful of brandy. 
Serve with a tiny plate of slightly browned toast, cut into 
dice-shaped pieces. 

You must know that we had the cowheel served with 
onion sauce for supper. 

We were given hot crab for breakfast that day. 

Hot Crab. 

All the meat was removed from the inside and claws of 
the crab, it was then mixed with a tablespoonful of cream, 
a teaspoonful of curry paste, and very fine crumbs of bread 
fried. The mixture was then put into the crab shell, which 
was placed on a hot stove, and a red-hot salamander was 
held over it. 

Invalid's Breakfast Dish. 

For my sister's breakfast on Friday morning my cousin 
removed the undercut from a sirloin of beef, weighing 
about four ounces, beat it well, and dipped it into heated 
dripping. It was then laid on a hot, greased gridiron, over 
a clear fire, and cooked for ten minutes, being constantly 
turned. It was then placed on a hot plate, a pinch of 
finely minced parsley, and the same of salt, scattered over 
it, and served quickly with thinly cut slices of bread rolled. 
The dish was garnished with tufts of green parsley. 

For our morning meal we had a dish of bloaters, which 
had been prepared as follows : — 

Fish Cutlets and Boiled Eggs. 

Remove the heads and tails from six bloaters, split them 
down the back, remove the bone, dip them into heated butter, 
and dust bread crumbs over them. Season the fillets with 



PICS FEET IN JELLY. 13 



pepper and salt, screen with minced parsley and mint, then 
grill them over a clear fire, without turning them. Just before 
placing on the table in a hot dish, a tablespoonful of ketch- 
up, mixed with the same quantity of Holbrook's Worcester- 
shire sauce, was poured over them. A dish of hot buttered 
toast was served with the fish, and six new-laid eggs, boiled 
in their shells, were covered with small tulip-shaped cosies 
to keep them warm while we did ample justice to the fillets. 

My cousin suggested that the juice of a lemon doubed 
with cayenne would be a great improvement to the fish. 

My sister was very much better on Saturday, and came 
down to breakfast as usual. We had pig's feet in jelly, a 
dish that was pleasant to the taste, and as great a novelty as 
could be desired. Here is the recipe given to me. 

Pig's Feet in Jelly. 

Order from the pork butcher six pig's trotters ready 
dressed for stewing. Set them in a stewpan with just 
enough water to cover them. When it boils remove them, 
and lay in a clean saucepan with about two quarts of water, 
a gill of vinegar, a bundle of herbs, one onion, a blade of 
mace, a dash of pepper and salt to taste. Skim well the 
moment it boils, then let all simmer for four hours. Take 
out the trotters, remove the large bone from each, and set 
on a dish. Pass the liquor through a hair sieve into a 
clean jug, add a dash of cayenne, the juice of a lemon, a 
tablespoonful of ketchup, the same quantity of Holbrook's 
Worcestershire sauce, a teaspoonful of Liebig Company's 
extract, and one glass of sherry. Put the jug into a pot of 
water. When the liquor boils, pour it through a hair sieve 
into another jug. Let it cool ; then pour the jelly into a 
well-oiled mould, lay in the feet right side down. When 
nearly set, pour in the remainder of the jelly. Set it on 



14 FOWL FRICASSEE. 

ice for two hours, or in a cold place for twelve hours. Next 
morning it will turn out perfectly. Garnish with parsley, 
screened with larded lemons. 

That night our cousin told us that her stay with us must 
necessarily be short. I therefore at once made the resolu- 
tion to learn as much as was possible of the secrets of the 
Art of Cookery while we had her with us ; for I now fully 
realised what a fitting thing a thorough knowledge of all 
culinary matters was in one who should take the head of 
the household, and how much of the comfort of the home, 
and health of the inmates, depended on the food set before 
them. 

My cousin always laid great stress on the way in which 
the kitchen utensils were kept ; " for," she said, " no matter 
how carefully a dish is prepared, if the vessel in which it is 
cooked is not perfectly clean, it will be neither tasty to the 
palate, nor pleasing to the eye." Another rule she laid 
down was that, in seasoning, no especial flavour should be 
allowed to predominate to the detriment of others. " As to 
salads, garnish, etc.," she said, " you must always wash, 
pick, and arrange them some time before they are wanted. 
They will not become stale if you lay a clean damp cloth 
over the dish, keep it in a dark place, and before using, 
sprinkle a little fresh water over the salad, then pour it off 
carefully so that you may not disarrange the dish." 

When we came into the kitchen on Monday morning we 
found our maid Jane looking most sorrow-stricken, and 
holding a dead fowl in her hand. 

Fowl Fricassee. 

" Please, ma'am, Rover has killed that lovely chicken you 
were fattening for grilling." 

" Has he torn it ? " asked my cousin. 



FOIVL FRICASSEE. 15 



" No, simply bitten its head clean off." 
'' Oh, then we can make it into a fricassee." 
Draw the fowl in the ordinary way. Pull the legs for- 
ward, then backwards into position, fit them closely to the 
sides, cut the feet and legs half off at the first joint, twist 
them, now pull hard ; there, the sinews are now drawn out, 
and the legs will be much more tender for eating. Stuff the 
bird with bread crumbs, prepared by passing them through 
a clean sieve on to a plate ; squeeze the meat from three of 
those sausages, mix all up, add pepper and a dash of salt. 
Fix a skewer to keep the legs in shape, pass one through 
the wings, hammer the breast into form with a rolling pin. 

In a stewpan place two ounces of butter well rubbed in 
flour, — be careful to hold the pan high above the fire, or it 
will colour, — in this plump the chicken, then add a pint of 
stock from the knuckle of veal stewed yesterday. Peel four 
of the smallest onions, scrape and wash two little carrots, 
cut them in half; loosely tie a bundle of those celery leaves 
in that muslin bag, so that they can easily be taken out 
when the bird is cooked. Cover the saucepan closely, and 
keep it simmering for two hours. When the bird is dished 
it will be found plump and white. Place the roots around 
the dish for a garnish. Into the gravy stir a well-beaten 
egg, to thicken it ; do not let it boil. When thoroughly 
heated, pour it over the bird, which you must then lay in the 
pantry till to-morrow. Directly the fire is bright in the 
morning, Jane must put on a large pot half full of water, 
and in this set the dish, just as it is. Allow all to get 
thoroughly heated, then remove the skewers, decorate it with 
parsley and a lemon cut in two, well doubed with cayenne. 
" How is that done, cousin ? " 



i6 LARDED OR DOUBED LEMONS. 

Larded or Doubed Lemons. 

First take the cayenne spoon, full of the pepper, push it 
through the lemon, two or three times, each time refilling 
the spoon. By doing that you secure all the pungency of 
the cayenne, which will have amalgamated with the lemon, 
without too much of the irritating spice. 

Piped Macaroni Boiled. 

Gradually drop a quarter of a pound of macaroni, into 
a large pan of fast-boiling water, in which a little salt and 
lump of butter have been placed. Be very careful that the 
water does not stop boiling until all the macaroni is in, 
then let it simmer gently. In about an hour it should be 
quite tender ; but make sure of this, for otherwise it will be 
most indigestible, also be careful that the pipes are kept 
intact. Pour the macaroni into a large cullender, and well 
drain the water from it; The Italians serve it in a rich 
brown gravy, with enough grated cheese to screen it, and 
highly seasoned with cayenne. Before serving, lay it very 
carefully in the gravy I am now making. When thoroughly 
heated, and the macaroni has become incorporated with 
the flavour of the gravy, serve it with a dish of Scotch 
cones. 

" Are the cones cold ? " I asked. 

" No, but 1 shall prepare them now, so that they need 
only to be heated in the morning." 

Scotch Cones. 

From a fillet of veal cut some thin slices ; drop each one 
into a saucepan, containing only a little gravy taken from 
the bottom of a large jar of dripping. Let them simmer 
for five minutes, then put them oa the chopping board. 
Wash, dry, and flour your hands. Divide the hard-boiled 



BAKED HAM. 17 



eggs into quarters, without disturbing the yolks ; carefully 
rub each quarter into the meat, and wrap every one in thin 
slices of bacon. The cones are fried in a pan containing 
an ounce of lard. 

Ox-tail Jelly. 

Cut the ox tail at the joints ; put the pieces into an earthen 
jar, with enough water to cover them ; put in two spoonfuls 
of mixed allspice, one long spice, a blade of mace, a cluster 
of sweet herbs, a bunch of parsley, and one bay leaf. 

Now add a good pig's foot, which serves the purpose of 
gelatine, and contributes to the quality and quantity of the 
liquor. Place the jar in the oven, and let it stew for three 
hours. Then oil one of the large tin moulds, skim off all 
fat from the liquor, remove the bones and seasoning bags, 
add a pinch of salt and a dust of pepper. When turning out 
the jelly, pull the tin slightly away from the jelly, and turn 
it on to a dish covered with an ornamental paper. Garnish 
with hillocks of scraped horseradish with tufts of parsley 
between. 

My marriage a short time afterwards necessitated my 
accompanying my husband to Australia, where I found the 
knowledge gained most invaluable. I will now tell you of 
the experiments I made in new dishes, with the help of one 
maid, Isobel. . 

I will describe them to you in the same manner as I did 
to her, so that you may see the practical way of carrying 
out these recipes. 

Baked Ham. 

Make a paste of half a quartern of flour mixed with 
water, and stirred with a wooden spoon. Dust your fingers 
with flour, give it three kneads, put it on the pasteboard, 
roll it out three times, till about a quarter of an inch thick ; 

B.B, c 



.j8 cheese custard. 

now lay the ham with it, wet the edges of the paste, cover 
the ham entirely, press down the edges to prevent the liquor 
from escaping, lay it on a muffin ring, or other stand, put 
it in a hot oven, which must be kept the same heat the 
whole time, it will then be done in four hours. Remove 
the crust, strip off the rind, and lay the ham on a dish with 
a saucer reversed under it. The fat will then drain from it, 
and, when cold, I ornament it as follows : — Dissolve an 
ounce of Nelson's isinglass in a wineglassful of sherry and 
one of water, then pour it into three cups, filling one up, and 
the others half full. Colour the full one brown, the other one 
white, and the remaining pink. Put the cups on the stove^ 
and watch how I do it. Into the full cup I stir a small jar 
of Liebig Company's extract ; to one of the halfcupfuls I 
add a teaspoonful of cochineal, and to the other two table- 
spoonfuls of milk. Now all are well blended, remove them 
from the stove, and leave them to get almost cool. I pour 
the brown jelly over the ham, and thus entirely screen it. 
The white jelly I pour into a pipe and make it form the 
word " welcome " ; it sets at once because the ham is cold. 
I fill the pipe with the red jelly, and make a number of 
flourishes on the ham. Now see the ornamentation is per- 
fect, give me a sheet of writing paper, and I shall cut a frill 
to embellish the knuckle bone. 

Cheese Custard. 

" Grate half a pound of cheese, Isobel, and you can beat 
up four of those new-laid eggs. Pour a gill of cream into 
them, now one of milk ; pass all through the hair sieve, into 
this grated cheese. I shall now pour all into the dish I 
have just buttered. The first thing in the morning, you 
can turn on the gas stove, put the pudding in the oven, and 
in twenty minutes it will be cooked. The small rashers of 



FISH IN JELLY. 19 

bacon I am cutting you must also put into the oven as soon 
as the pudding is thoroughly heated. I shall fix them in 
rolls with this skewer, so that they may keep in place while 
cooking. 

" We have only been twenty minutes preparing these 
dishes. Before bringing the pudding to table to-morrow 
morning, place a paper border round it, and set it on the 
dish I am now garnishing with parsley." 

Aspic Jelly. 

*' Isobel, you said something about the cold fish that was 
left ; you were quite right to remind me. Fetch the gravy 
that came from the ham, also a cupful of stock. I fear it 
is not very sweet, so give me a pinch of Californian borax ; 
that will make it all right. We often use this in England 
when meat has become slightly tainted. There is a prepar- 
ation called 'Glaciline,' which is used much for this purpose 
in cookery, but it is very expensive, the effect of which 
in sweetening food is simply marvellous. Borax is cheap 
and would answer the same purpose ; perhaps were it more 
highly priced, it would be more appreciated. When the 
stock is heated, add a teaspoonful of Worcestershire sauce, 
a bay leaf, a tablespoonful of anchovy sauce, three cloves, a 
dozen mixed peppercorns, a mustard-spoonful of made mus- 
tard, and a pinch of salt. Again let it boil gently, while you 
beat up the whites of two eggs with a knife on a flat dish. 
Pull the saucepan back ; when the liquor cools, add the 
whites and shells of the eggs, pour all through a jelly bag. 
Are the moulds steeping in water ? " " Yes, ma'am." 

Fish in Jelly. 

" Divide the fish into pieces of the size of a shilling, cut 
a pickled kidney bean, into small dice, slice a lemon, cut 



20 SHRIMP FRITTERS. 

each slice into quarters. The jelly is cool enough to use, 
and beautifully clear. Pour enough jelly into each mould 
to cover the bottom, then a sprig of parsley, a quarter of the 
round of a lemon ; add a little more jelly, now the cold fish. 
Fill the moulds ; lay them in a shallow dish of water. Set 
them in the cellar till morning. I once heard an epicure 
say that he did not like to see fish dished up on paper, but 
I consider that it is good taste to serve cold jelly on orna- 
mented papers ; but lay these on a glass dish, and garnish 
with horseradish and lemon. 

" Well now, Isobel, I hope you are not frightened at the 
trouble of preparing these novel breakfast dishes ? " 

" Oh no, for you always prepare them on the previous 
day, so there is no more trouble in the morning than in 
simply cooking eggs and bacon." 

I learnt that from our French friends ; they begin to pre- 
pare their evening meal in the morning ; I arrange our morn- 
ing meal in the evening. The extra trouble is well repaid 
in the satisfaction these dishes afford. 

Shrimp Fritters. 

" Did you get the can of preserved shrimps ? Very wxll : 
now put two ounces of bread crumbs into a saucepan, pour 
on enough boiling milk to moisten them. In a quarter of 
an hour they will be quite soaked. • The tinned shrimps are 
not quite so good as the fresh ones, but will serve our pur- 
pose very well. Just chop them a little with a sharp knife ; 
I, in the meantime, will stir the crumbs over the fire for ten 
minutes. When they have grown cold, add the shrimps and 
pound both together. I will beat up a couple of eggs ; now 
add them to the mixture, put it into a basin, season with a 
dust of cayenne and a dash of nutmeg. When it is cold, 
roll it out on the pasteboard, add a little flour, and cut out 



ONIONS WITH SHRIMPS. 2 1 



several cakes in the shape of a leaf. Sec that the frying-pan 
is perfectly clean ; thoroughly heat one ounce of fresh lard, 
carefully drop in the leaves, turn them, remove one by one 
and lay on thin paper to drain, place on a hot dish, and 
garnish with lemon slices, and a sprig of parsley laid on each 



one." 



Savoury Chops with Apple Fritters. 

" Cut the lemon into two, lay a half at each end of the 
table. Isobel, I saw some beautiful Tasmanian apples ; we 
might have pork chops and apple fritters for breakfast to- 
morrow, if you would promise me to get up half an hour 
sooner than usual. Very well, then ; order a loin of pork 
from the butcher, and tell him to chop it well. When it 
comes, hang it in the larder, and at seven o'clock I shall be 
with you ; but before that time you must skin a pound of 
onions, pop them into boiling water, when half stewed take 
them out, cut them into slices, and select those that form 
rings. Now for the chopping-board and my kitchen knife. 
Bring me the pepper, and dried sage also. I want a basin 
of cold water. You should watch me preparing these pork 
chops, then you can do them yourself another time. See, I 
take away a little of the fat ; dip them into a beaten egg, 
and cover with bread crumbs and dried sage leaves bruised 
finely. In the- morning you will only have to fry them in a 
pan of heated lard. Lay the parboiled onion rings at one 
end of the pan, sprinkle them with bruised dried sage leaves, 
pepper and salt." 

Onions with Shrimps. 

" Isobel, to-morrow I intend to make a dish of onions 
and shrimps." 

" Onions and shrimps ! is not that an odd combination, 
ma'am ? " 



22 SPONCfE CAKES. 



*' Yes, but I think you will like it. Put half a pint of 
brown gravy into a jug, add a tablespoonful of minced 
parsley. In the morning pour this into a clean stewpan, 
add a tinful of shrimps ; when it has simmered for ten 
minutes, remove it from the fire, and stir in a tablespoonful 
of good cream. The onions must be roasted ; when they 
are done, remove the skins, place them on a hot dish, and 
pour the shrimp sauce over them. Garnish with tufts of 
watercress. Another day, I mean to pour the shrimps over 
squares of toast." 

Sponge Cakes. 

" I am sure, Isobel, if we made our own sponge-cakes, 
there are many delicious things we could make for breakfast 
at a trifling cost ; so we had better begin at once. Just 
break eight eggs into a stewpan, with eight ounces of castor 
sugar. Now beat them well with a wooden spoon over the 
stove, till they are quite stiff; then remove the stewpan 
from the stove. Keep beating the mixture up, till cold, 
add a teaspoonful of the essence of lemon, dredge in nine 
ounces of flour. When all are thoroughly mixed drop from 
a spoon into buttered pans, and bake in a slow oven for 
twelve minutes ; but you must use your own judgment in 
this particular. You can keep them quite fresh in a tin box 
or glass bottle for a month. Another time, Isobel, I should 
break each egg separately into a saucer before putting them 
into the mixture, for fear one might be bad. I know these 
are all new laid, but at this time of year it is often possible 
that the hens may have been sitting on them for some days 
without our knowledge." 

Poached Eggs with Savoury Sauce. 
" You know, Isobel, how fond your master is of all dishes 
in which eggs form an important feature, therefore we will 



RABBIT CUTLETS WITH GREEN PEAS. 23 

try to serve eggs in a novel way. Cut some slices from the 
baked ham, mince them finely with a small pickled gherkin, 
one shallot, a tuft of parsley, now pepper and salt to taste. 
Stew all together in a small saucepan. Poach five eggs, 
allowing the white to be slightly set. Lay the eggs on a hot 
dish, squeeze over them the juice of half a lime, screen with 
the sauce, which must not be allowed to boil. Garnish with 
hillocks of horseradish and sprigs of parsley placed be- 
tween." 

A Rabbit Mould. 

Another day I found a woman selling rabbits ; having 
bought a pair, I carried them home concealed under my 
cloak and hid them in the pantry. I skinned and blanched 
them as before, then stripped off every particle of flesh ; I 
put all the bones in a stewpan with about two pounds of 
knuckle of veal, an onion, a small piece of ham, and a spoon- 
ful of whole allspice. When it had boiled for an hour, I 
put it through a sieve into a clean saucepan ; I added the 
meat from the rabbits, let it come to a boil, skimmed it, and 
re-covered the saucepan closely. In an hour's time I turned 
it all out into a basin with a spout, to cool, while I buttered 
a mould, stuck stars of truffles over it, then into this poured 
the rabbit liquor, and, lastly, a small bottle of olives. This 
mould I told Isobel to turn out next morning, and there 
was little fear of her ever knowing of what the jelly con- 
sisted. 

Rabbit Cutlets with Green Peas. 

From the back of two other rabbits I intend to cut four 
fillets, and divide them again into cutlets. See how neatly 
it can be done. Now give me the pan and some clarified 
butter, sprinkle the meat with a little pepper and a suspicion 



24 SWEETBREAD FEARS. 

of cayenne. Drop in the cutlets. We watched them as 
they turned white and firm, then I took them out and sent 
Isobel with them to the pantry. In the meantime I scraped 
away every particle of flesh from the bones, pounded it in 
a mortar and passed through a wire sieve. " Weigh this 
pulp, Isobel ; to each four ounces add a gill of whipped 
cream ; stir vigorously ; season it highly with nutmeg, white 
pepper and salt. Now get a wet knife, coat each cut- 
let with the cream. Butter the large flat dish, lay each 
cutlet on it as you finish it. Cover them over with a well- 
buttered paper, set the dish in a slow oven for about twenty 
minutes. Arrange them on a fresh dish around a heap of 
green peas ; thicken the gravy with corn-flour, add the 
beaten yolk of an egg ; do not let the gravy boil, pass it 
through a sieve on to the green peas. Why do you look 
astonished, Isobel? Oh, I see, the green peas. Did you 
not see the tin of them I brought in with me yesterday after- 
noon? it is those I want you to use." 

Sweetbread Pears. 

*' I must now show you how to make sweetbread pears. 
First cut them into dice-shaped pieces ; that is quite right ; 
now put a lump of butter and enough flour to make a paste 
into a saucepan, stir it over the fire till it looks like cream, 
but be very careful not to let it burn ; add a tablespoonful 
of water to prevent its boiling. Now that is real melted 
butter. Stir in the sweetbreads and mushrooms, add a dust 
of pepper and a pinch of salt ; mix well for five minutes ; 
when all is thoroughly heated, turn it out on to a dish. 
While it is getting cold, prepare some fine bread crumbs, and 
I will beat up an egg. Now divide the mixture into nine 
parts, flour your fingers, form it into pear-shaped pieces, dip 
them into the Qg2^, dust each one with bread crumbs, stick a 



Savoury cakes. 25 



clove at one end and a stalk of parsley at the other ; lay 
them on a plate well dusted with flour, and take them down 
to the cellar till the morning. Then all you will need to do 
is to put two ounces of lard in a clean frying-pan, let it come 
nearly to the boil, then carefully lay each ' pear ' in, move 
them about till quite brown, then take them up, drain on 
paper, and place them on buttered toast, cut into diamond 
shapes. I shall be with you in time to prepare that. I 
shall now pick and wash the curly cress, with which I mean 
to garnish the dish." 

Savoury Cakes. 

" Well, Isobel, you remember that I promised to show 
you another way to cook sheep's brains, because you all 
appreciated the last dish of them so much. Now watch 
and see how I cook them. We must first parboil this pair 
of sheep's brains ; now they are boiled enough, you may 
chop them quite small, add two ounces of finely chopped 
suet and a teacupful of chopped parsley. Mix all together, 
season with white pepper, a dash of nutmeg, and salt to 
taste ; form the mixture into a paste with a beaten egg. 
Flour the board and your fingers, cut the paste into a 
number of diamond-shaped cakes, ornament the centre of 
each with a sprig of parsley j sprinkle the dish with a little 
flour, lay them on it, and cover with that old serviette. The 
only thing you will have to do in the morning is to heat 
thoroughly an ounce of dripping in the frying-pan, then 
you must drop in the cakes one by one. Watch them care- 
fully. When slightly browned, remove them, lay gently on 
to a piece of paper, but do not turn. The parsley will now 
be quite crisp. When all are fried, throw the parsley which 
you see me picking from the stalk, into the pan. Lay an 



20 PORK CHOPS AND TASMANJAN FRITTERS. 

ornamental paper on the dish ; on this arrange the cakes, 
take up the parsley, drain it, and use it to garnish the dish. 

Pork Chops and Tasmanian Fritters. 

" Yes, I know the butcher brought much too large a 
joint ; but never mind, give me the trencher, and I will soon 
convert it into a very tasty dish. Put some of the dripping 
from the meat into a clean frying-pan, add a tablespoonful 
of bread crumbs mixed with flour, pepper, and a pinch of 
salt. Peel two or three Tasmanian apples for me, cut them 
into rounds, lay each piece of meat betv/een two apple 
rounds, lay them in those httle round paper cases you made 
the other day, and pop them into the pan as soon as the fat 
is hot. Do not trouble to grease the cases, just souse them 
in the boiling fat. You are quite right, Isobel, the fat 
should not boil, but when at boiling heat drop in the 
material that is to be fried. A clever cook knows the exact 
moment : but if you are not quite sure, throw a piece of 
bread into the liquid ; if it turns brown at once, you are 
quite safe, but if it becomes black and dark-looking, it is 
better to pour the fat away, and re-wash the pan. 

" There, the fritters will do nicely ; take them from the 
cases, and lay on an old dish ; never use those belonging to 
the service for standing in the larder. To-morrow morning 
beat up two eggs, a dessertspoonful of flour, and one of 
milk ; into this dip the pork fritters, then fry them lightly, 
for the meat and apples now only require to be thoroughly 
heated. Do not use much grease or fat, only rub the pan, 
when hot, with a piece of butter tied in coarse muslin." 

Leg o' Mutton dressed as Ham. 

" You see, Isobel, pork is always savoury, and makes a 
nice change at times ; but where is much heat one has to 



LEG a MUTTON DRESSED AS HAM. 27 

be very careful in the use of it. I will tell you what we 
can do — we may dress a couple of legs of mutton in such a 
style that few could tell them from hams. 

" Very well, we will begin at once. Give me an ounce 
of saltpetre, half a pound of bay-salt, the same weight of 
brown sugar, one grated nutmeg, an ounce of white pepper, 
a quarter of a pound of table-salt, and half a pint of vinegar ; 
now mix them all together. Tell the butcher to cut me a 
shapely leg from the hind quarter of mutton, ask him to try 
and make it resemble a Cumberland ham. I shall require 
it in an hour, for the pickle will then be ready. 

" Bring me the large stone shallow pan and a clean pair 
of housemaid's gloves. I always wear them, for I have 
proved it to be most injurious to the meat to handle, especi- 
ally in hot weather. You would find it much easier to cure 
the ham in cold weather, for it would take the salt much 
more easily. See, I hold the knuckle in my left hand, and 
rub in the mixture with my right. You must go through 
the same process every three days, and be careful to turn it 
a different way each time. Let it lie for eighteen days ; 
after each rubbing, you must place a heavy weight on the 
meat, so that it may be kept quite flat. 

" After eighteen days you may hang it in the kitchen to 
dry thoroughly. It can be smoked by being hung from a 
branch of a tree over a fire of hardwood and sawdust ; but 
it must first be kept at a good distance from the fire for at 
least two or three days. Now promise me always to wear 
the gloves when handling the meat. Leave them by the 
pan, so that they may be at hand when needed." 

A large party of our friends had planned to spend a day 
in the woods near Windsor. We were to take our breakfast 
with us, and, under the shade of the great trees, surrounded 



28 HOME-MADE CAKES. 

by brilliant foliage and flowers, happily to spend our time 
as only it can be spent in such harmonious surroundings. 

Therefore, I went to the kitchen early, and, telling Isobel 
of our intended picnic, arranged what we should take with 
us. " I shall want about twelve light milk cakes to-day, 
Isobel." 

" Shall I order them from the baker, ma'am ? " 

Home-made Cakes and Sardine Sandwiches. 

" No, for I want them in the shape of an ivy leaf, so we 
will make them ourselves. See, I am going to put two 
pounds of flour in the earthen pan we use for washing the 
salads. Melt two ounces of butter in a pint of warm milk; 
it does not matter if it is sour, in fact it is better. When 
the milk and butter are nearly cold, stir in a tablespoonful 
of barm or yeast. Make a hole in the centre of the flour, 
pour in the liquor ; sprinkle over it a dessertspoonful of salt. 
Beat up two eggs, stir them into the liquor ; flip the flour 
from the sides, cover the pan with a cloth, set it near the 
stove or in the sunshine, till the dough rises to the top of 
the vessel. Are your hands quite clean? Very well; then 
knead all together, seeing that no dough is left on the sides 
of the pan ; cover it over again, set it in the same place, 
leave it till it rises above the top of the pan, then it will be 
quite ready to cut into the ivy-leaf shapes, which were made 
purposely for me. Grease the tins, press each piece of 
dough into them ; when they are baked, and removed from 
the tin, they will be in this novel shape. In half an hour 
you may cut the leaves in half, the flat way from the point 
to the end of the stalk, pinch out the crumbs, and lay them 
aside. Now, very sparingly butter six cakes, that will be 
twelve of those halves ; in the meantime I will fillet six 
sardines and three anchovies. You see, Isobel, how I wash 



PIGEONS WITH FORCEMEAT. 29 

the anchovies, and the meat leaves the bone at once. The 
sardines require great care. With two forks fill the buttered 
halves. Now pick the watercress that I washed and drained 
leaf by leaf; with this screen the fish, dust them slightly 
with pepper, put on the other half, press the two together ; 
now place them all side by side in a tin box and take them 
into the pantry. Have you taken care to close the lid 
tightly ; that's quite right." 

Chicken and Ham Sandwiches. 

" When you come back, bring the cold roast chickens to 
me. That is right ; see, I shall remove the legs and wings. 
Get the chopping-board, cut all the meat free from the 
breast ; let it be very small, but do not mash it ; it must be 
seasoned with a dust of salt and pepper, a mustardspoonful 
of made mustard and two well-mashed pickled walnuts; 
put all in a basin, add the same quantity of the baked ham, 
grated. Mix all together, with this mixture fill the other 
six cakes. Now wash the mustard and double cress ; the 
best way is to put it all in the cullender, set in a large 
pan of water ; be very careful not to allow it to get loose in 
the water or we shall lose part, take it out and allow to 
drain. In the meantime take the boiled eggs from the cold 
water ; I put them there so that the shells might come off 
easily." 

Pigeons with Forcemeat. 

*' Isobel, butter me a mould thoroughly ; hold it to the fire 
for a moment, and when the butter melts, let it run into 
every crevice. Now line the sides with forcemeat, made 
in exactly the same way as for veal stuffing. Just pop two 
pigeons into the small stewing-pan, and let them boil for 
twenty minutes. Chop the suet while I gather the parsley 
and thyme. Parsley, raw veal, bread crumbs, pepper, and 



30 BOILED CHICKEN IN JELLY. 



salt — that is quite right ; you have all the ingredients for 
the forcemeat there. You may moisten it with eggs, for it 
must be stiff enough to press to the mould, and remember 
the juice of a lemon is the greatest improvement. Now the 
pigeons are sufficiently done, lay them in the centre of the 
mould, and cover well with forcemeat. In the morning, 
bake it in a brisk oven for thirty minutes ; then you may 
turn it out carefully. If you were serving it hot, you might 
send it to table surrounded by a gill of thick gravy." 

Boiled Chicken in Jelly. 

" Isobel, you often said you would like to see a boned or 
devilled fowl ; therefore, to-morrow morning we will have 
one of the six-month-old Brahmas killed before they are fed. 
Then you can pluck it while it is warm, and in the after- 
noon it can be dressed for boning." 

With these words I left Isobel, and when I came to the 
kitchen next afternoon, was glad to see that everything was 
done in exactly the way I desired. 

" Plucked and drawn ; that is quite right. Give me the 
boning-knife and small hand saw. See ; first I shall draw 
off the skin from the neck, taking great care not to tear it, 
then I cut the bird straight down the back, lay it open, and 
with this sharp knife remove the bones. Now mix together 
a tablespoonful of chopped parsley, a teaspoonful of the 
picked leaves of thyme, half a teacupful of fine bread crumbs, 
the juice from a lemon, a dust of pepper, and salt to taste." 

" Doesn't it want an egg, ma'am ? " 

" No, Isobel ; I think it makes the stuffing too firm. When 
making forcemeat balls I always add one, for it binds them 
together for frying ; but a teaspoonful of cream is a great 
improvement. 



ARTIFICIAL PIGEONS. 31 

" Fill the body of the chicken with this stuffing, close it 
up, and draw the skin over it again ; skewer it carefully, 
place in a stewpan containing warm water, add an onion, a 
turnip, and a bouquet of parsley. Now we will let it sim- 
mer gently for forty minutes, but the moment it boils draw 
it away from the flame, and skim the liquor well. While 
it is cooking we will boil four eggs. Place the mould in 
water to soak. 

" Give me the star and half-moon shaped cutters, and I 
will cut a dozen beetroot stars, the same number in cucum- 
ber, and lay them in a little vinegar. 

" Fetch me one of the large bottles of aspic jelly, set it 
near the stove for a httle while, thinly coat the mould with 
a little of the jelly ; when nearly set, ornament it with the 
beet and cucumber stars and the hard-boiled eggs. Lay a 
tuft of parsley at the bottom ; now add a thick coating of 
jelly. When the bird is quite cold, pop it into the mould, 
then fill up with jelly. When nearly set, place hard-boiled 
eggs, cut in half, in the jelly, and take it straight down to the 
cellar. In the morning, you will simply have to turn it out. 
See, it has taken us almost an hour and a half to make ; I 
am sure we shall think it well worth the trouble. Do not 
garnish with parsley this time, but with little hillocks of 
chopped aspic jelly." 

Artificial Pigeons. 

I remembered having heard John say we had pigeons 
enough to feed a famine, so I thought we might eat some 
of these birds at our picnic breakfast. " Now, Isobel, we 
will have some pigeons killed, and make them up ^s fricassee 
dean, artificial chickens, and in jelly. I want you to make 
me a forcemeat any time during the day ; it will keep good 
if well seasoned. The ingredients you must use are, one 



32 PIGEONS IN JELLY. 

pound of raw veal, one ounce of chopped, and two of grated 
fat bacon, a minced shallot, the plucked leaves of thyme, 
and the juice of a lemon ; also blanch a pair of pigeons." 

In the afternoon, I found that she had accurately followed 
my directions. I cut the meat from the pigeons, minced it 
finely, mixed it with the forcemeat, and bound all together 
with a well-beaten egg ; formed it into the shape of a 
chicken, put one pair of feet so that they showed under the 
body. From the other leg I cut off the feet, and placed 
them so that they resembled the wings, brushed it all over 
with a beaten ^gg^ then screened with bread crumbs, and set 
it in a tin pie-dish. 

" Isobel, this must be baked in a hot oven for thirty 
minutes ; take it carefully, and stick a piece of thyme in its 
mouth when dished. Now I shall cook pigeons in jelly ; 
but do remember not to turn them from the mould till the 
very minute they are to be served." 

Pigeons in Jelly. 

"To-day is Monday ; our party is fixed for Wednesday; 
if we make the jelly to-day we can skim it to-morrow, and 
make it into moulds, so that it will be quite ready for pack- 
ins. You had better order a calf's foot from the butcher. 
When it comes, put it into a stewpan with a quart of water, 
a blade of mace, a bunch of sweet herbs, a teaspoonful of 
whole mixed pepper, a sHce of ham, and one of lemon. 
When it has boiled for two good hours, turn it through a 
sieve into a clean stewpan, put in four young pigeons dressed 
as for roasting, let them simmer for thirty minutes ; then 
remove the birds and set them on a dish. While they 
are cooling, clear the gravy ; it ought to make a delicious 
jelly. Squeeze the juice of a lemon over the pigeons, dust 
them slightly with cayenne; stir the well-beaten whites 



STUFFED RABBITS IN lELLY. 33 



and crushed shells of two eggs into the jelly, strain it 
through a thick cloth which has been dipped into boiling 
water. It is rather hot, but wring it in another cloth, just 
as you would a flannel that is to be used for fomentation. 
Place an oiled or well-soaked mould under the. cloth, pass 
half the jelly through into it ; when nearly set, put in the 
birds ; then pour in the remainder of the jelly. Take it 
down to the cellar to set." 



Stuffed Rabbits in Jelly. 

I had long wished to try a new dish of rabbits ; but when 
I broached the subject to Isobel, she looked very much 
astonished. 

Next day I skinned a couple of rabbits, cut off their 
heads, and blanched them till they were perfectly white, 
then stuffed them with forcemeat, just as I should veal ; 
after which I rolled them round and wrapped them in fat 
bacon. When Isobel came into the kitchen she could not 
guess what they were, and I would not satisfy her curiosity 
till after she had partaken of them. I baked them for an 
hour, during which time I basted them well. I then al- 
lowed them to cool, cut each one into three, and placed 
them in a round tin mould, which Isobel had carefully 
oiled. I warmed a bottle of savoury jelly (which I always 
keep at hand), added to it a small pot of black currant jelly, 
a glass of port wine, a dash of nutmeg, and the juice of 
lemon. When all was mixed and heated in an earthen 
pot, poured it over the rabbits, and put it away in a cold 
place. 

Next morning I turned the mould out myself, garnished 
it with hard-boiled eggs, which had been cooked on the 
previous day, but left in their shells till I required them. 

B.B. D 



34 FRICASSEE OF BRAINS. 



Everybody joined in praising this dish, and great was the 
astonishment of all when I let them into the secret. 

Fricassee of Brains. 

" Isobel, you can order me three pairs of sheep's brains 
from the butcher's ; tell him to send them between three 
and four o'clock, that will give us time to prepare them be- 
fore tea. Yes, they are very fresh ; put them into a basin 
of cold water, add a pinch of salt ; see they skin quite easily. 
We can now remove the veins. Place the brains in that 
muslin bag, tie it loosely, boil them for five minutes. Take 
them up, lay on that plate, see that none are lost. They 
are beautifully white. I shall want the chopping-board on 
which to chop them. Now, I want you to chop the brains 
so that they will not be a pulp when finished. That will 
do very nicely. Put them into a clean stewpan, into which 
you have first dropped a piece of butter not bigger than 
your thimble ; add a teaspoonful of minced parsley, a salt- 
spoonful of pepper, and a dust of cayenne. By a dust of 
cayenne, I mean you to take the cayenne bottle from the 
kitchen cruet, shake it once, while holding it low over the 
mixture. A dash of nutmeg is one grate down the nutmeg 
grater. More than a dash of each would spoil the flavour 
of the dish. Stir the mixture well, but do not scratch the 
saucepan. While I garnish the dish with radishes, I want 
you to make some slices of toast, butter and cut them into 
triangular-shaped pieces. Pour the brain paste over them ; 
do not spill it on the dish, Isobel, for it looks so untidy. 
You see I have not cut off that little tuft of green at the 
top of the radishes for one reason, it is easier to pick them 
up when it is left ; for another, that they look prettier with 
it ; and lastly, because I always eat it, for I find it prevents 
their disagreeing with anybody." 



CHICKEN MAYONNAISE. 35 



Croquettes of Mutton. 

" Croquettes of mutton make a very good breakfast dish, 
so give me any scraps of cold mutton you have in the safe, 
please, Isobel. First, I must remove all skin and gristle, 
then cut it into dice a quarter of an inch thick. Mix with 
it about a third of its quantity of tinned mushrooms, also 
cut dice-shaped. Now I want you to brown an ounce 
of butter in the stewpan, without burning it. To do 
this you put the ounce of butter into a stewpan ; stir in 
half a pint of good strong stock ; the liquor from the 
mutton and ham, mixed with an ounce of isinglass, will be 
just the very thing. You must flavour it well by adding a 
spoonful of ketchup, the same quantity of pickled walnut 
vinegar, and a good dash of black pepper ; also a pinch of 
salt if it requires it. Let all boil slowly for ten minutes, 
stir carefully the v/hole time, then add the meat and mush- 
rooms ; let them be thoroughly heated, but mind they do 
not boil. When all is done, pour it on to a flat dish, and 
set in a cold place till morning. Then you may quickly 
flour your hands, and work all into small balls of equal 
sizes; roll them in bread crumbs. Put a lump of sweet 
dripping in the frying-pan on the stove ; when at boiling- 
point pop in the balls, let them fry till of a golden-brown 
colour ; set them in the oven on paper, so that they may 
drain for a minute. I shall be down in time to dish them 
on a serviette, and garnish with parsley. I think you will 
all own that they are very tasty, and far better than cold 



meat." 



Chicken Mayonnaise. 

" Isobel, fetch me the young chicken I trussed ready for 
the spit yesterday. Roast it in the oven for about forty 
minutes \ it must be evenly browned all over. Yes, that is 



36 GARFISH OR GRAYLING FILLETED. 

done beautifully I shall now cut it into eleven pieces at 
the joints. We will make a Mayonnaise sauce. Put the 
yolks of two eggs into a clean basin, mix them with a 
wooden spoon for a few seconds. Pour them little by little 
into half a pint of sweet salad oil, stirring constantly till it 
becomes thick and smooth. Season it with a tablespoonful 
of tarragon vinegar, the juice of two lemons, a dash of white 
pepper, and salt to taste. Add a third of its measure of 
aspic jelly, cold but not set. Mix all well together. Coat 
each piece of fowl with the mixture ; lay them aside till 
quite firm. Serve them on a dish covered with ornamental 
paper in a circle, each joint overlapping the other. In the 
centre of the dish place a well-washed white-hearted lettuce 
or endive. Lay pieces of jelly on the joints of the bird." 

Garfish or Grayling Filleted. 

" Now we must think of to-morrow's breakfast. Will you 
order some of the fish which is called garfish in England 
and grayling in Australia. I think we shall want about four. 
When they come I will show you how to fillet them. Cut 
the heads off first, take the knife close to the bone very 
carefully, for they are most delicate fish. The bone is 
very easily removed. Chop off the tail, dip the knife into 
water, and smooth and trim the fillets. 

" There, you see, are two splendid fillets ; lay them on the 
cloth while you treat the other fish in the same way. Now 
give a dash of cayenne, a suspicion of salt, and the juice of 
half a lemon. Over each fillet pour a teaspoonful of heated 
butter, lay them in a greased tin, screen with grated cheese, 
a sprinkling of finely chopped parsley, and a dust of pepper 
To-morrow morning set them for twenty minutes in the 
oven. While they are cooking, get four pieces of toast ; cut 
them to the size of these fillets, not a shade larger. Butter 



CRAYFISH WITH POACHED EGGS. 37 

them well, and on each slice lay a fillet. Arrange small 
tufts of parsley between every one." 

Veal Kidney and Mushrooms. 

" We will prepare the kidney taken from the loin of veal 
we had to-day. Let me have it. See, I cut it in half length- 
wise, remove the little white core, then fill the crevice with 
a small piece of butter rolled in pepper. Now put an ounce 
of bacon liquor into a perfectly clean pan. When this is 
well heated I shall put in the two halves of the kidney. Do 
not turn them at all, or they will lose their gravy. When 
done, take them up very carefully. 

" In case the gentlemen require something more sub- 
stantial, I will cook these mushrooms. Dip each one into 
warm butter, dust them with pepper, and set in the pan be- 
side the kidney. Remember, when the mushrooms are done 
they must be so drained that not a particle of fat will re- 
main on them. That is all, but do not forget to garnish 
with larded lemons." 

Crayfish with Poached Eggs. 

"Yesterday I saw some splendid crayfish for sale, so 
brought one home with me. Just pepper the under part, 
and put it in" the larder till to-morrow morning. Then set 
an ounce of butter, one of flour, and a gill of milk in a 
white enamelled saucepan ; into this throw a dash of cay- 
enne, a pinch of isinglass (or add a tablespoonful of good 
fish stock), white pepper, and salt to taste. Let the whole 
simmer till it thickens, then throw in the meat from the 
crayfish ; this you must first chop very finely. Draw the 
saucepan from the fire, while you poach half a dozen eggs ; 
lay them carefully on a dish, with toasted sippets of bread 



^8 BEEFSTEAK FIE. 



o 



around them. Then stir half a gill of cream into the 
crayfish mixture ; pour it over the eggs. Garnish the dish 
with tufts of parsley. Be sure to see that your plates are 
very hot." 

Beefsteak Pie. 

" I thought to-day of having a beefsteak pie, one that can 
be eaten cold ; so when the butcher comes, I shall want to 
speak to him myself" 

" Here he is now, ma'am." 

" Will you kindly send me about a pound of tender beef- 
steak? I do not care from what part, but it must be tender; 
also I want half a dozen kidneys. 

" Isobel, put one pound of flour into a pan, and see that 
it is quite dry before adding half a pound of dripping, a tea- 
spoonful of salt, and one of baking powder ; mix all with 
the sour milk in the pan. Do not make it too stiff, for you 
will require a little more flour to roll it with ; now well 
butter the large pie- dish, line the sides and bottom with 
this paste, cut the edges neatly, the remains will form the 
cover. See, I shall cut the steak into pieces as large as the 
palm of my hand, and as thick as a crown-piece. You may 
tap each one with the flat end of the chopper, dust lightly 
with pepper and flour, and lay them in the dish with a small 
piece of butter ; now cut the kidneys in halves, remove all 
pipe and fat, lay the flat sides uppermost, dust them well 
with pepper and salt. Cut me a dozen dice-shaped pieces 
of fat ham, scatter them over the kidneys ; by this means 
you will prevent the steam from soddening the paste. 
Mince one onion so finely that you cannot see the tiny 
pieces, lay in one bay-leaf and a small piece of butter. 
Cut the paste to fit the sides of the dish, brush the edge 
with melted fat. I never close my pies with water, nor do 



GRILLED PIGEONS. 39 



I put any in the dish. For a meat pie you may make a 
garland of leaves in paste, but never for a fruit pie. 

" There are three gallipots full of dripping in the larder ; 
I want you to take the jelly from the bottom of each one. 
This I will warm in a jug, for I could not trust it to a 
saucepan ; now notice this. I shall add a tablespoonful of 
mushroom ketchup, the same quantity of wine, which I have 
reserved from the bottom of the bottles when decanting 
them. I always use Australian for soup, it is very much 
like sherry ; and if the Australians would take a hint from 
the French, their wine would last longer, and not many 
sherries would taste better. Just before leaving home I 
bottled a nine-gallon cask of this wine. Now I drop a 
pinch of isinglass into the jug, add a mustardspoonful of 
made mustard, a lump of sugar, pinch of salt, and dust 
of pepper. I will place the jug on the stove, where it 
will become hot ; and when the pie is removed from the 
oven, I will place the little funnel in a hole at the top of the 
pie, and through it pour this gravy into the dish. When cold, 
the gravy will be like jelly. This pie is delicious w^ien eaten 
either hot or cold." 

Grilled Pigeons. 

"If you get John to kill a couple of those young pigeons, 
we will have them for breakfast ; but they must be plucked 
directly they are killed. Oh, that is right ; they are quite 
ready. I knew they were as fat as Bordeaux pigeons, I 
always wash a pigeon, and let the water from the tap run 
through it for a minute. Now roll it in a cloth till quite 
dry ; split each down the back, dust them, inside, with 
pepper and salt ; spread them over with lard, and powder 
them with fine bread crumbs ; scatter a little chopped pars- 
ley over. Butter two sheets of writing-paper, lay them on 



40 HARE CUTLETS. 



the pigeons, and set them aside till morning. Then rub 
your gridiron well with a lump of suet, lay on the buttered 
paper, then the pigeons. If the paper is well buttered, it 
will never blaze. Cook the birds, turning them often, till 
of a nice brown colour. You will be able to do this your- 
self, will you not, Isobel ? But should they get at all dry, 
spread a little butter upon them. Send them to table on a 
hot dish, just as they are taken from the grid." 

Hare Cutlets. 

" We have brought a couple of hares home with us, Isobel. 
I suppose we need make no secret of cooking them. They 
might hang for a week at least ; but I have not much to do 
to-day, and the friends who gave them to us are coming 
down to see us, so I think we will have them for to- 
morrow's breakfast. I will skin and dress them at once ; 
now parboil this one by letting it simmer slowly for thirty 
minutes. I will cut all the firm meat from its back, and 
mince it finely ; then add six ounces of grated fat bacon to 
every half-pound of meat, or you might use up the fat part 
of the ham minced ; add an onion, six leaves of dry sage 
powdered, and a teaspoonful of picked leaves of thyme, 
and a pinch of salt ; but we must first weigh the meat from 
the hare, for the quantities go to every half-pound. Now 
beat me up an egg with which to moisten the mixture. I 
will knead all well together, flatten it out, and divide it into 
cutlets with the cutter. To-morrow morning you may fry 
them in sweet beef dripping, but drain them well before 
serving. Now boil two pounds of potatoes ; let them be 
done well, then mash them finely ; add a spoonful of cream 
and lump of butter the size of a walnut, a dash of pepper, 
and salt to taste. Press them into a fluted mould, and lay 
it aside till morning ; then you may put it in the oven, and 



STUFFED CODFISH WITH BROWN GRAVY. 4I 



when thoroughly heated turn it into the centre of a hot 
dish, and lay the cutlets round it. Arrange a little parsley 
on the top, and garnish with hillocks of black currant jam." 

Stuffed Codfish with Brown Gravy. 

" The cod you have in this country is very much coarser 
than ours ; nevertheless, we will cook one in the same way 
as we do river barbel, which is as coarse as fish can be. 
First we must salt it well, and let it stand till to-morrow 
afternoon." 

Next day I at once saw that Isobel looked very much 
aggrieved, and rather inclined to toss her head at all my 
suggestions. I at once guessed that the idea of cooking 
the cod was not at all agreeable to her. Taking no notice, 
I quietly said, — 

" Now bring out the fish ; stuff it in the same way as you 
did the loin of veal yesterday ; lay small lumps of lard, 
butter, or dripping all over it, set in the oven, let it cook till 
quite brown." 

" Is it to be served cold, ma'am ? " 

" No ; again let it stand in the oven for twenty minutes. 
Before serving, squeeze over it the juice from two lemons. 
When the fish is thoroughly heated through, lay it on a dish. 
To the liquor .in the tin in which the cod was baked, add a 
tablespoonful of flour, a pinch of browning-salt, and a table- 
spoonful of ketchup mixed with a gill of water or stock ; set 
it on the stove, stir briskly till it boils, but do not let it spill 
over the range. When done, strain it on to the dish." 

Even Isobel had to confess that this made a delicious 
dish, and the remains were again sent to table, served in 
the same way as minced veal ; it was as good as sturgeon. 



42 OX-CHEEK' CUTLETS WITH TOMATOES. 



Ox-Cheek Cutlets with Tomatoes. 

" As I was coming up the street I saw at least six half 
bullocks hanging in a butcher's shop, so I stopped to ask 
if he had an ox's cheek, and ordered one to be sent in 
this morning, therefore I shall need your help. The weather 
is now so cold that I shall be able to have a mould of some 
potted meat as well as beef cutlets. Just set the large 
mould to soak in cold water, then fetch me the chopping- 
board and sharp knife. It is a very large piece of meat, but 
I thought we might make some little dainty to send in to 
Mrs. Tupper, who has just returned from an ocean voyage, 
and is so busy that she has no time to think of cooking. 

" Lay the ox's cheek in a pan of boiling water for fifteen 
minutes, then you shall take it out and I will remove the 
large bone. But first I will cut some cutlets, as shapely 
as possible, and lay them between two flat boards, with a 
heavy weight on the top, till to-morrow morning. 

" Now, Isobel, you may cut those six tomatoes into halves, 
take a little of the central part out, without breaking it, and 
stuff them with a little minced ham, mixed with a table- 
spoonful of bread crumbs and chopped mushrooms, seasoned 
with pepper and salt, mixed with the beaten yolk of an egg ; 
place them in a buttered tin, with a small piece of butter on 
each one, screen them lightly with bread crumbs and chopped 
parsley. In the morning they will require fifteen minutes 
cooking in a hot oven. 

"The beef cutlets must be dipped in beaten egg, then in 
a little of the mixture with which you screen the tomatoes ; 
then fry them for fifteen minutes. So you see both the 
meat and vegetables take the same time to cook. See that 
your dish is very hot ; place the tomatoes in the centre, and 
cutlets around them. Before sending to table, pour a gill 
of good gravy around them." 



MUTTON S TEA K SA USA oES. 4,1 



Mould of Ox-Cheek Jelly. 

" Place the remains of the cheek in enough hot water 
to cover it ; tie a carrot, turnip, parsnip, onion, bay-leaf, 
parsley, a teaspoonful of mixed peppercorns, and blade of 
mace in a cloth in the stewpan, so that we may be able 
easily to remove them. Let the whole simmer for three 
hours. Then we must take up the cheek, separate all the 
bones from the meat with two forks, and add enough salt 
to make it savoury. Pour it into the moulds you put to 
soak, set them down in the cellar, and they will be quite 
firm by the morning. 

Mutton Steak Sausages 

are the next thing we shall make. So you may peel two 
onions and four apples, core and mince both very finely, 
and dust over with pepper. From the fillet of a leg of 
mutton I shall now cut six thin slices, half an inch thick ; 
flatten each one with a rap from the chopping-knife that 
has been dipped in water. Over these slices spread the 
mince, roll them like a sausage, carefully skewer so as to 
keep the stuffing in place. Lay them on a dish till morn- 
ing ; so as to save time then, you may now mix together a 
handful of parsley, the same quantity of bread crumbs, with 
pepper and salt to taste ; lay it aside in a basin. To-mor- 
row morning dip each ' sausage ' into this mixture, and at 
once fry them in heated dripping ; remember to turn them 
about continually. When cooked, place each one sepa- 
rately on a hot plate. When ready to serve, set them 
quickly on to a hot dish, and garnish with the small cress 
I have just picked, washed, and laid away." 



44 VEAL FORCEMEAT. 

Veal Forcemeat. 

" If you look on page 70 of my recipe book, you will 
see exactly how to make forcemeat ; read it aloud. 

" ' Four ounces of beef suet, the same quantity of raw 
veal, bacon, or beef, a teacupful of bread crumbs, half a grated 
nutmeg, four sprigs of parsley, one of thyme, marjoram, or 
lemon thyme, the juice from a lemon, salt and pepper to 
taste ; mix all finely together ; mix with a teaspoonful of 
cream or milk, and, if for balls or frying, with an egg. If for 
the latter purpose, the forcemeat is made into balls and fried 
quickly in sweet fresh dripping till of a golden brown colour.' 

"Yes, there you see exactly what I mean, if you look just 
underneath you will see one for fish." 

Forcemeat for Fish. 

" ' Take the meat from a small haddock, pick out all the 
small bones, mince it finely ; mix with four ounces of finely 
chopped beef suet, a breakfastcupful of grated bread crumbs ; 
chop a dozen blue points, a handful of well-washed parsley, 
one small onion or shallot, season well with cayenne pepper 
and salt ; mix all well together, add the juice from a lemon, 
a tablespoonful of oyster liquor sieved, and (if to be fried) 
a beaten egg.' " 

Stuffing for Turkeys. 

" What is the stuffing for turkeys, ma'am ? " 
" The same as for the fish, with the addition of an ounce 
of fat ham, a blade of mace pounded, and, if you like it very 
firm, the beaten yolk of an egg. Not the haddock, of 
course ! " 

Ham and Chicken Rissoles. 

" Isobel, you may mince all the cold fowl and ham, then 
season it well with the grated rind of a lemon, pepper and 



SAUSAGE ROLLS. 45 



salt to taste, moisten with a little good white stock or gravy. 
I, meanwhile, will make the paste. I shall weigh out four 
ounces of flour (dry it before the fire), two ounces of butter, 
the well-beaten yolk of an egg, and a little milk to make it 
of the right consistency. Roll it out twice. This paste 
would keep for a couple of days and get no harm if well 
covered up. Flour the board and cutter, mark out the 
paste in rounds about four inches across ; in the centre of 
each round lay a little mincemeat, turn over the paste, 
press the edges together to keep in the mixture. Brush 
them over with a beaten egg, and dip in vermicelli broken 
very small the first thing to-morrow morning, and fry them 
in boiling lard. Be sure not to forget to drain them on a 
hot plate in the oven before you dish them. Send them to 
table on a dish covered with a fringed d'oyley, and garnish 
with parsley." 

Sausage Rolls. 

*' I mean to have sausage rolls for breakfast to-morrow, 
Isobel ; I know you like them. You must make a rich 
puff paste, roll it out to an eighth of an inch in thickness 
then with a five-inch square cutter mark as many pieces as 
we shall want rolls ; wet the edges with a beaten ^gg. We 
will not make these of pork, so mince up all the cold roast 
beef in the larder, also a little fat ham ; season it with 
pepper and salt. On each square piece of paste lay two 
ounces of mince ; roll the pastry over to one side, press the 
ends to prevent the meat from escaping. Slightly brush 
them over with egg, and lay them aside till morning, then 
set them in a quick oven for about fifteen minutes. Send 
them to table on a dish covered with a fringed d'oyley. 
By making these rolls, we have utilized all the cold meat 
and fat ham, so that they will make a very good breakfast." 



46 BEEF PALATE WITH POACHED EGGS. 

Beef Palate with Poached Eggs. 

" Few people know the way to cook beef palates, but if 
thoroughly boiled they may be served in twenty different 
ways. When you are out, bring me in four palates, and see 
that they are cleaned. 

" Put them down to boil at eleven o'clock, with a pinch of 
salt added to the water and one onion ; let them simmer 
for at least four hours. When you take them out, skin at 
once ; brush a beaten egg over the inside. Put a layer of 
forcemeat upon the palates, roll them up tightly, tie at each 
end with a piece of tape, and put them away till morning. 
Then dip each one into beaten egg, screen with bread 
crumbs, and fry till of a golden brown colour in good beef 
dripping ; lay them on a dish. We will have no gravy 
served with them, but while they are frying I will poach 
five eggs, and we will lay them round the palates, which of 
themselves make a delicious dish." 

Sydney Shortcakes. 

" To-day I mean to make some Sydney shortcakes. Rub 
six ounces of butter into a pound of flour, add six ounces 
of sugar. Use only the tips of your fingers, Isobel, and 
you will find the paste will be much lighter. Add a little 
milk and water, work it into a smooth dough with a wooden 
spoon. Divide the dough into two parts, roll them out 
into round cakes, about the size of a dinner plate; cut 
a round cake from the centre of each with the cutter ; I 
mean the one that is about four inches round. Divide the 
outer edge into eight parts, screen with castor sugar ; grease 
a piece of paper, lay the cakes on it, and set them in the 
oven ; but do not leave them there for more than twenty 
minutes. When you take them up, turn them upside down 
to cool." 



BARLEY WATER. 47 



Pate froid de Veau. 

On Saturday afternoon I told Isobel that I had ordered 
a fillet of veal for Sunday's dinner, and meant to have a 
good steak cut from it, which should be prepared that day, 
so that it might cook with the meat next day. 

I said, " I shall cut the steak in two ; as a rule, a veal 
cutlet is taken from the fillet near the centre of the leg, 
so it is nearly round ; but this one being cut from the fillet 
makes almost a steak. I must cut it to resemble a cutlet. 
I shall want you to chop the pieces very fine while I lard 
these two cutlets ; when well larded with white pepper and 
allspice, I shall lay one at the bottom of a well dried-dish ; 
add a small bunch of parsley, and a tablespoonful of fat 
minced bacon, the chopped veal, a shallot also well minced, 
a tablespoonful of mixed spice from the bottle of mixed 
herbs I brought from Covent Garden. When all is well 
mixed together with two well-beaten eggs, the juice of a 
lemon, and pinch of salt, you may spread it evenly over 
the meat, cover it with the other piece of larded veal ; 
serve this cold, and you will have a delicious ' Pate froid 
de veau.' 

" The remains of the forcemeat spread on four slices of 
bacon, roll them up neatly, run a skewer through, and lay 
them on the top of the pate." 

My husband was seized with a very violent attack of fever. 
During his convalescence we were particularly careful in the 
preparation of his food. 



Barley Water. 

We made his barley water in the following way : — First, 
we washed four ounces of pearl barley in cold water, then 
put it in a clean saucepan, added half a pint of water, and 



48 EGG PUDDING. 



let it boil for five minutes, then passed the barley through 
a clean sieve, put it into four pints of boiling water with 
half an ounce of gum arabic, let it simmer till it diminishes 
to half its quantity, added a sliced lemon and two ounces 
of sugar candy, poured the whole into a jelly bag, and let 
it rwn into a clean jug, then it was quite ready for use. 

Egg Pudding. 

A light and nutritious dish for invalids is an egg pudding, 
so we at once made one. I beat up an egg in a basin, 
then added a teaspoonful of flour, mixed with a table- 
spoonful of milk, and seasoned it with a small pinch of 
salt, for many invalids conceive the greatest dislike to salt. 
Then we passed all through a gravy sieve into a buttered 
cup, and set it in boiling water, to simmer for twenty 
minutes. 

Scalloped Oysters. 

" Isobel, some friends are coming for breakfast, whom I 
have not seen for two years, and therefore mean to give 
them a good old-fashioned English welcome, which it 
seems must always be accompanied by a great ' spread.' 
How many oysters have you altogether ? " 

" About four dozen, ma'am." 

" Then take two dozen, drain them on the hair sieve, 
pour the liquor into the smallest stewpan, knead two ounces 
of butter and a dessertspoonful of flour, with a knife ; add 
it to the liquor (making melted butter in this way prevents 
it from becoming lumpy), add a dash of cayenne and three 
blades of mace ; hold it over the stove, and stir quickly 
till the butter melts, then draw the saucepan on one side ; 
let it simmer slowly for fifteen minutes. Remove the 
mace. Beard the oysters, add them to the liquor, let them 



NOVELETTE TART. 49 



be thoroughly heated, season with pepper and salt, lay 
them aside till morning, then you can butter me a couple 
of salad dishes, those on which I made the macaroni 
cheese, sprinkle them with a layer of bread crumbs, one 
of oysters, and another of crumbs, that fills the dishes ; 
now scatter small lumps of butter the size of beans over 
them, add a dust of pepper and suspicion of nutmeg. Set 
them on a tray, and leave it in the larder till morning, 
when they will simply require to be browned in the oven 
for twenty minutes. 

" Now we have sausage rolls, novelette tart, and scalloped 
oysters for breakfast, that will do very well ; but remind 
me to provide one or two dishes of salad and fruit. Keep 
a kettle boiling, so that I may make the tea and coffee. 
These dishes will give you but little trouble \ three in the 
oven cook as easily as one." 

Novelette Tart. 

" While you have the pastry about, cut me one or two 
rounds the size of that meat-plate. Cut away the centre 
from the middle of one piece, brush the other over with 
a beaten egg, on this lay the cut round, again brush it 
over with a beaten egg, roll out the piece you cut from the 
centre, so that it may be slightly larger. Bake them in a 
quick oven for fifteen minutes. In the morning, fill the 
centre with blanched oysters. We may be thus extrava- 
gant just now, for they are wonderfully cheap. I saw rock 
oysters this morning for eightpence a dozen ; true, they 
are large, but still very well flavoured, and for scallops 
are delicious." 

Our expected guests arrived ; we all thoroughly enjoyed 
their stay. "Mr. Taylor was very full of his approaching 
tour to America, where he was going so as to pay a visit 

B.B. E 



SJ ro UR Y SAND IVICHES. 



to the International Exhibition ; he suddenly proposed that 
we all should join him and form a pleasant party. In a 
few hours' time we had all decided to fall in with his 
plans. 

I was delighted, and in further thinking of it, determined, 
if possible, to take our trusty Isobel with us. At the first 
opportunity, I broached the subject to her ; she caught up 
the idea eagerly, saying that she had only her father's 
wishes to consult, and she was certain that he would be 
quite willing to allow her to take her own course. 

Savoury Sandwiches. 

" Isobel, I want you to order a loaf from the baker to cut 
up for sandwiches ; it must have been made in a mould, 
so that the crumbs may be close, and the crust rasped. 

" Yes, that one will do beautifully. Now hand me a sharp 
knife. All the meat used must be carefully trimmed free 
from every scrap of skin, gristle, or sinew. Sandwiches can 
be made of any kind of meat, either cold or potted, or 
fish, game, poultry, potted shrimps, prawns, potted cheese, 
ham, and tongue, anchovies, diavole sausages, be'chamel, 
hard-boiled eggs, with pounded cheese and butter, olive 
forcemeat, salad, and of course the necessary bread, mustard, 
zest, pepper and salt. But to-day we will only make two 
kinds. Give me a pound of the raw undermeat from the 
sirloin of beef ; I will remove every particle of fat and gristle 
from it, then pound it in a mortar with two uncooked 
eggs, a pinch of salt, dash of nutmeg, and dust of pepper ; 
put it into a well-buttered mould, and let it stand for an 
hour in a pot of boiling water. Meanwhile I will spread 
these slices of bread with best fresh butter, then (v/ith a 
silver knife) cover them with the mixture, and lay one on 



POTATO CROQUETTES. 5 1 



the other, so that they fit well. Now line the tin box with 
writing paper, pack them closely, and cover tightly." 

Shrimp Sandwiches. 

" Now we will make a dozen shrimp sandwiches. I mean 
potted shrimps. Butter the bread neatly, cover it with 
shrimps, now sprinkle with a little anchovy essence, press 
two pieces of bread together, and cut them neatly." 

Cheese Sandwiches. 

" We might also make a few cheese sandwiches. Put two 
ounces of Parmesan cheese into a clean saucepan, with a 
few slices of Cheddar cheese, and two ounces of butter; 
stir it over the fire till the cheese is dissolved, beat up an egg 
strain it into the saucepan with a tablespoonful of cream, 
season with mustard, pepper and salt. Spread the mixture 
upon unbuttered bread, and screen with any kind of minced 
salad." 

Potato Croquettes. 

" To-day I mean to make some potato croquettes, so boil 
a pound of equally sized potatoes, with the skins on, till 
quite mealy, then peel and pass them through a wire sieve 
into a basin, add a beaten egg, a dust of pepper, a table- 
spoonful of cream, with salt to taste, mix all well together ; 
when the potatoes are nearly cold, flour the paste-board, roll 
out the mixture, cut it into round pieces with the top of a 
wine glass, brush them with a beaten ^gg^ screen with bread- 
crumbs, lay them on an old dish ready for morning, then 
fry them in heated fat, till of a golden brown colour, after 
which set them for a couple of minutes in the oven to drain. 
Send to table on a clean serviette." 



52 SWEETBREADS AND POTATOES. 

Collopped Sweetbreads and Mashed Potatoes. 

" I am going to prepare the lambs' sweetbreads in a 
different way to-day. Now make a border of mashed pota- 
toes, treated in the same way as for croquettes ; in the 
meanwhile, I will scald and trim ten or a dozen sweetbreads. 
Fetch me half a pint of the stock I reboiled yesterday ; in 
that I shall let them simmer for fifteen minutes. To-morrow 
morning cut them into coUops about a quarter of an 
inch thick, slightly pepper them and set in the larder till 
morning. Now take a pint of white stock, I mean the veal 
gravy and chicken broth mixed together, boil up, skim, and 
sieve ; thicken with a teaspoonful of flour, and one of 
cornflour ; when as thick as treacle, pour into a jug, and 
set aside till to-morrow morning, when you must set the 
large saucepan, half full of water, on the stove : place the 
sweetbreads with a dozen pickled button mushrooms in a 
jug that contains the gravy, and let it stand in the saucepan 
till all are thoroughly heated. Press the mashed potatoes 
into a buttered border mould, set it for a few minutes in the 
oven, then turn out the potatoes, cover them with egg, let 
them brown in the oven till I come down, and then I will 
set them on a clean dish, turn the sweetbreads into the 
centre of the dish, and garnish with parsley. You see, 
Isobel, it takes almost less time to do these things than to 
explain how they are done." 

Vanilla Ice-Cream. 

" We have not yet had any ice-creams for breakfast ; they 
are not often taken at that meal, but some people like them, 
and I want you to know how to make them, especially if 
you intend going to America with us ; so we will make one 
now. Get the quart ice shape, that very thick one. In the 



PINE-APPLE WATER ICE. 53 

mortar bruise two pounds of vanilla and one of crushed 
sugar, pass it through a sieve, beat up the yolks of two eggs 
with a little of the sugar, put all into a saucepan with half 
a pint of milk, stir carefully over the fire till it boils, then 
take it off, and leave it aside till quite cold ; then slowly stir 
in the juice from a lemon, and a pint of cream, — this is by far 
the most expensive ingredient, — mix all together and freeze in 
a refrigerator. So runs the recipe, but I will now explain 
fully to you how this is done. Break the dozen pounds of 
ice I ordered in, with a coarse needle or fine stiletto, add 
to it three and a half pounds of coarse salt, put it into a 
pail, in which place the refrigerator, pour in the cream, and 
put on the lid. Surround the sides with ice and salt, then 
quickly turn about the machine. When the cream adheres 
to the sides of the refrigerator, scrape it off with an ice- 
spoon, put it into a mould, continue turning the machine, 
till the rest is nearly stiff; fill the shape, and set it on ice 
down in the cellar till morning. Take the mould from the 
ice, soak it in cold water, shake it well, and turn out the ice- 
cream on to a crystal dish." 

Pine-Apple Water Ice. 

" I will tell you, with the greatest plea sure, how to make 
pine-apple water ice. Free a pound of pine-apple from all 
rind, bruise it till very fine in a mortar, boil a pound of 
lump sugar in a pint of water for ten minutes, add the juice 
of a lemon, and the pine-apple pulp. When the sugar has 
quite dissolved, strain the liquor through a fine sieve, and 
freeze in the same way as for vanilla cream. Hazel-nut ice- 
cream is made in exactly the same way, with the addition of 
six ounces of blanched hazel-nuts, which have been pounded 
in a mortar. 

" Now, Isobel, we shall soon be en route to America, and 



9 



54 RECIPES FROM ABOARD SHIP. 

should we arrive safely, I shall be very pleased to show you 
how to prepare some of the real dishes of that country. 
For in no other part of the world, unless it be Russia, can 
one see such elaborate displays, although of a different class 
of cookery. But till the voyage is over, we cannot afford 
time to make fresh experiments ; so our notes of recipes 
mu3t for the present be discontinued." 



RECIPES FROM ABOARD SHIP 
EM ROUTE FOR AMERICA. 

At last all the plans for our intended trip to America were 
made, and I looked forward to our visit with the greatest 
pleasure. 

The weather was most genial, and after a very few days 
we felt able to enjoy the pleasant company, and our return- 
ing appetites enabled us to appreciate our well-prepared 
meals. Some of the dishes were most delicious. I there- 
fore give you one or two of the recipes. 

Savoury Bird's Nest. 

I was very much struck by seeing one dish on which was 
arranged a large nest, in which three birds seemed to be 
sitting on six eggs. I must give you an idea how this was 
done. First a bed was formed of cooked asparagus, laid 
crosswise on the dish ; the nest was made by pressing 
spinach, which had been boiled and flavoured, into a mould; 
the lining consisted of minced truffles and mushrooms, 
blended with a green coulis. In the nest were laid six boiled 
eggs (minus their shells). The birds had been previously 
divided into two, but were cemented together with thick 



LE GRAND ESPAGNOL. 55 



aspic jelly. One egg, half a bird, and a portion of the 
vegetables were given to each person. 

Chicken's Livers Larded and served in Grand 

Espagnol. 

The other morning a dish of chicken's livers was served. 
They had been larded with fat and lean ham, then stewed in 
gravy prepared from chicken and knuckle of veal, flavoured 
with canned truffles and many other vegetables. The head 
steward gave me a small pot containing an ounce of this 
essence, and said it w'ould be quite enough to flavour a 
gallon of water. 

In case you would like to make this exquisite essence, 
here is the recipe, which I afterwards begged from the 
steward. It is called a Grand Espagnol. 

Le Grand Espagnol. 

Set a four-quart stewpan on the fire, into it put three 
ounces of butter, three ounces of fat ham (about an inch 
in thickness), three pounds of well-chopped shin of veal, 
one disjointed fowl, three pounds of beef cut small. When 
the ingredients begin to hiss, they must be kept constantly 
stirred, till they are of a good brown colour, then slowly 
add two pints of boiling water; throw in one carrot, an 
onion stuck with cloves, a bunch of parsley, a faggot of 
herbs, such as sweet marjory, sweet basil, lemon thyme, a 
clove of garlic, and slice of lemon. When all are thoroughly 
heated, add a pint of water ; let all simmer for three hours 
(take care that the stewpan is closely covered). Then add 
a glass of coloured wine, and one of brandy, season the 
whole with salt to taste, pass all through a sieve ; when cold, 
.skim off all fat, pour it into jars, and cover quite closely. 
One tablespoonful is enough to flavour a pint of water. 



5^ NOVEL DISH OF PALATES. 



Novel Dish of Palates. 

A dish of ox palates arranged so as to form a basket 
looked very tempting. They were piled high in the centre 
of a dish, surrounded by a border of mashed potatoes, and 
then with a wreath of stewed mushrooms. Two long pipes 
of macaroni crossed on the top of the palates formed the 
handle. But really the ingenuity with which some of these 
dishes are contrived is most wonderful. 

" I must tell you, Isobel, that the Americans have what 
they call ' heavy breakfasts,' which I think is a very 
sensible plan. They have great varieties of bread ; Indian- 
corn bread, buck-wheat bread, malt bread, German bread, 
etc. Many housewives make it at home, so it would be well 
for you to learn. Their syrups are also delicious — maple 
syrup, from the maple tree, in which they preserve the 
grape fruit. The latter is like a large orange, and tastes like 
a lemon, something like the English shaddock. Large 
bunches of Californian grapes are laid on every table. This 
fruit is good for many people, as it contains a large quantity 
of iron." 

Blue Shark Cutlets. 

" Blue shark ! What a formidable name, Isobel ! " " Yes, 
ma'am ; but they say they are as delicate as a chicken." 
" Cut them into slices, egg-and-bread-crumb each piece, then 
fry them in heated lard till quite brown. They are sent to 
table with sour sauce." 

Sour Sauce. 

This sauce is made from cranberries. Bruise and lay the 
cranberries in white wine vinegar over night ; then pass 
through a sieve into thoroughly heated butter and well 
blended flour. 



SALLY LUNN. 57 



Savoury Eggs. 

" Isobel, hard-boil six eggs, let them boil for about eight 
minutes, then throw them at once into cold water ; by so 
doing you can remove the shells without disfiguring the 
whites. Cut each egg into pieces (lengthwise), brush them 
over with raw egg, dip into fine bread crumbs, put them 
into the wire basket, and set it in heated fat. They will be 
quite done in two minutes. Remove from the basket, set 
on kitchen paper to drain. Garnish the dish with the bacon 
rashers you have just grilled. 



Oysters and Kidneys. 

*' Isobel, I want you to order from the stores in Four- 
teenth Street, six kidneys and a dozen Blue Point oysters. 
First skin the kidneys, remove the white bit of pipe, cut 
them lengthwise, and dip in heated butter ; pepper slightly ; 
then set in greased tin in the oven, till the gravy begins to 
run. That is right ; they are just done to a turn. Give me 
a fine wooden skewer. Now place one half of a kidney on, 
then an oyster, afterwards a kidney, and so on till you have 
half the materials. On another skewer arrange the re- 
mainder in the same manner ; dip them in heated butter, 
then in bread crumbs, set in the oven, baste well while 
cooking, dish very hot ; pour tomato sauce over all. Roast 
in the oven three large tomatoes, pulp them through a 
wire sieve into a clean saucepan, with a lump of butter, 
a dust of cayenne, and the juice of a lemon. Stir well ; 
when thoroughly heated screen the kidneys with it. Stick 
tufts of parsley here and there." 

Sally Lunn. 

"This afternoon, Isobel, I would like you to make some 
Sally Lunns. 



SS CUSTARD fOR INVALID LUNCHEON. 



(( 



Put one pound of flour into a pan or bowl, make a 
hole in the centre. Into this put a quarter of a pint of 
warm milk, mix in a tablespoonful of brewers' barm, flip 
the flour from the sides into the milk ; cover the pan with 
a cloth, set it in a warm place till the sponge rises. Put 
two ounces of butter, one of sugar, and a gill of milk into 
a saucepan ; set it over a slow fire. Take the yolks of four 
eggs, add a pinch of salt, beat them well, pass through a 
sieve into the flour and yeast. When the butter and milk 
are warm, mix altogether into a soft, light dough. Butter 
the tins, fill them half full, set to rise, put them into a quick 
oven. If properly made, they should mount to the top of 
the tins." 

Custard for Invalid Luncheon. 

Beat an egg well with two tablespoonfuls of milk, then 
stir in one dessertspoonful of flour, which has been warmed 
and dried. When all have been thoroughly blended, pass 
the batter through a fine sieve into a buttered cup that will 
just hold the mixture. Over the top tie a wet cloth, and pop 
the pudding at once into a saucepan of boiling water. Let 
it simmer for twenty minutes. Turn it out carefully on to 
a small dish, without breaking, as it should be very light. 
Lay a dice-shaped piece of butter on the top ; screen with 
a little castor sugar. Garnish with maiden-hair fern. In- 
valids will often eat an ornamental little bit like this, when 
they would not look at anything else. 

Nourishing Gravy for Invalid's Luncheon. 

" Isobel, when you remove the joint after dinner I want 
you to save me the gravy that has come from the meat ; it 
will make a little soup for the master. I will add a tea- 
spoonful of brandy, half a one of Liebig essence, and half a 
gill of boiling water ; stir all in a coffee cup on the range 



AMERICAN CREAM. 59 

till quite hot, then pass it through a fine sieve into a little 
white basin. I will first see that the basin and spoon have 
been well warmed. Toast a few finger lengths of bread, and 
we will send it in on a small white plate with the gravy. 
That is quite enough to give to any invalid, and is most 
nourishing. A teaspoonful of this gravy might be given to 
a delicate child on a few crumbs, twice a day, say at eleven 
and at one." 

Salmon Mayonnaise. 

*' I will decorate a dish with a salad. First the border shall 
be of well-washed and drained watercress ; next some red 
radishes ; then, in the centre, some white celery will be laid 
crosswise. On this I lay some neatly cut pieces of salmon, 
and over all pour a good mayonnaise." 

Mayonnaise Sauce. 

"Into a cup I put the yolks of two uncooked eggs, a tea- 
spoonful of castor sugar, one of made mustard, with pepper 
and salt to taste. Beat all with a silver fork ; add little by 
little enough sweet salad oil till as thick as good cream ; 
mix in by degrees two tablespoonfuls of tarragon vinegar ; 
and, lastly, half a gill of cream. If the eggs used are quite 
fresh, the dressing will not turn, no matter how quickly the 
oil be added." 

American Cream. 

" I shall try to make some of this cream, to-day, Isobel. 
Throw the whites of two eggs into a basin (be very careful 
not to let the yolk drop in). Add about the same quantity 
of cold water. Stir in enough sifted sugar to make it of 
such a consistency that it can be moulded into shape with 
the fingers. We can then either flavour with essence of 
vanilla, orange, or almond." 



6o SA VO UR V SOLES. 



Savoury Soles. 

" Isobel, order two small soles, weighing about a pound 
and a half, from the fishmonger. You may cut the flesh 
away from the bones, thus making four fillets ; lay them on 
the dresser, cover with the forcemeat I am now making, 
then roll up each fillet secure with a fine skewer ; brush a 
beaten egg over them, screen with bread crumbs, and set 
them on their ends in a greased tin. Baste the rolls with 
heated butter ; place in a quick oven for twenty minutes ; 
dish them hot, and squeeze over them the juice of half a 
lemon. Garnish with tufts of parsley. 

" You had better note down the way to make this force- 
meat." 

Forcemeat for Savoury Soles. 

" Skin half a pint of fresh shrimps ; chop them slightly ; 
add an ounce of heated butter, and mix all well together 
with a beaten egg." 

Cod's Sound and Egg Sauce. 

" Isobel, I should like you to steep two cods' sounds in 
water all night ; but do not forget to throw in a wine-glass- 
ful of vinegar. Any time to-morrow you may boil them, 
and set them in the cellar till next day. 

" You must also make an egg sauce. For this, boil two 
eggs till quite hard ; when cold, cut each one into slices, 
and stir them into half a pint of well-made melted butter ; 
add a dash of nutmeg ; pop in the sounds ; leave them till 
thoroughly heated, then place on a hot dish, and carefully 
pour the sauce over." 

Broiled Cod's Sound. 

" You can also broil the sounds, and so make a very 
pleasant variety. They must first be scalded or blanched 



A/AV QUEEN TARTS. 6i 

in hot water, then well rubbed with salt. You must after 
that leave them aside for at least an hour ; then remove all 
skin ; set the sounds in hot water, and let them simmer 
till tender. Take them up, drain, flour, and dip in heated 
fat. Broil over a clear fire. While cooking, season a little 
good gravy with pepper and salt ; add a tablespoonful of 
ketchup, a teaspoonful of made mustard, half a glass of 
sherry, and a lump of butter rolled in corn-flour. When 
it boils, dish the roes, and pour the gravy over them. 
Garnish with tufts of parsley." 

Orange Icing for Cakes. 

The easiest way to make an orange icing is to put six 
ounces of castor sugar into a basin ; add the juice and 
grated rind of an orange ; stir well for twenty minutes. 
When the cake is taken from the oven, spread this ice 
smoothly over the cake with a palette knife dipped into hot 
water. 

Almond Icing. 

Put about three-quarters of a pound of ground almonds 
into a basin ; add half a pound of refined castor sugar 
with enough beaten egg to mix it into a paste. While the 
cake is warm, spread the mixture over it with a broad, flat 
knife or palette knife, which has been dipped into hot 
water; cover smoothly the top and sides with the icing. 
Let the cake stand in a cool oven for thirty minutes. 

May Queen Tarts. 

(^For Spring Luncheon. ) 

Cut some square-shaped pieces from the crumb part of 
half a quartern loaf of bread; let them be an inch in thick- 



62 TOMATO BASKETS. 



ness. Take out the central part from each one, leaving the 
sides and bottom intact; v/ith a palette knife spread the 
insides with anchovy paste, then fill with dice-shaped pieces 
of well-boiled mealy potatoes. This done, pour over and 
around the dice a rich mayonnaise sauce. Garnish with 
finely chopped aspic jelly. 

Tomato Baskets. 

Cut six large tomatoes into the shape of a basket, leaving 
a handle. Scoop out a little of the inside; fill with chopped 
celery, rounds of cooked sausages, and mount the tops with 
tufts of small cress. Arrange the " baskets " on a large 
dish, with hard-boiled eggs laid in small beds of cress. 

Hasty Herring on Toast. 

Cut down the backs of three fine bloaters ; bone them ; 
take each fillet and lay it in spiced vinegar for ten minutes ; 
then dust pepper, salt, and nutmeg on the white side ; roll 
them ; fasten with a very fine skewer ; dip the fish into 
heated fat, and grill over a clear fire. " Isobel, you must 
have ready a tablespoonful of minced parsley, with which 
to screen the fish." Lay each fillet on a square of buttered 
toast, over them squeeze the juice of a lemon, and dish 
very hot. This tasty dish costs about fourpence, so it is 
decidedly economical. 

Croutes. 

Cut some diamond shapes from the crumb of a loaf of 
bread ; fry them very lightly ; set on a hot dish (" not the 
one you intend to send to table, Isobel"). Make a mixture 
of two ounces of cheese (cut small), one ounce of the butter, 
and the yolk of an egg. We make this by first putting the 
butter into a saucepan ; when it is melted, add the cheese 



VEAL CUTLETS AND MACAROXl. 63 

(cut small) ; when thoroughly heated, throw in the beaten 
yolk. Stir all well together ; season with pepper, salt, and 
nutmeg (only a dash of each). " You know, Isobel, that a 
heavy hand never makes a good cook. A dash too much 
of seasoning may spoil a dish. You must not let the mix- 
ture boil nor burn. While you spread the cheese cream on 
the croiltes I will mince half a pint of shrimps, with which 
I will screen them, and then, with some leaves picked from 
a sprig of tarragon." 

Arrange the crodtes on an ornamental paper (over a hot 
dish), and send them at once to table. 

" We must prepare a tasty little luncheon for to-morrow, 
Isobel." 

Shrimps and Mayonnaise. 

"Shell half a pint of fresh shrimps; chop them slightly. 
Make some good thin buttered toast, and cut it into squares. 
Prepare a rich mayonnaise sauce ; beat up the yolk of a 
raw egg (or, you remember, a hard one would do as well); 
into it drop gradually two tablespoonfuls of salad oil, one 
of vinegar, a teaspoonful of castor sugar, a mustard-spoon- 
ful of made mustard, and a tablespoonful of cream. 

"Put in the shrimps, mix well, and pour it over the toast. 
Garnish with well- washed watercress." 

Veal Cutlets and Macaroni. 

" Isobel. we will have veal cutlets and macaroni to-dav. 
Order me about three pounds of the best end of the neck ; 
see that the butcher chops the bones well. 

" Get the macaroni ; break it into pieces four inches long ; 
put it into hot water ; let it come to a boil ; pull the sauce- 
pan back: ; let it simmer for thirty minutes ; pour in a tea- 



6 1 PRINCELY PANCAKES. 

cupful of quite cold water. That is the correct way to cook 
macaroni. Bellini's chef (^.n Italian) told me it saves it from 
pulping, which spoils it. Add a pinch of salt. Now I 
want to collect all the jelly from the bottoms of the 
dripping jars, and put it into a clean saucepan. When it 
comes to a boil, strain ; replace in the pan ; thicken with a 
little flour mixed with a tablespoonful of ketchup, and salt 
to taste. Strain the macaroni dry, and drop it into the 
gravy. 

"In the meantime, I will cook the cutlets ; then all will be 
ready together. You see, Isobel, I have shaped the cutlets, 
egged, and covered them with fine bread crumbs ; now I 
will fry them in some good dripping till of a nice brown 
colour. You can now drain, and lay them on a hot dish. 
Sprinkle the picked leaves of thyme over them, and add 
the juice from a lemon. 

" Garnish with slices of lemon, cut into shapely pieces, 
with tufts of parsley here and there. The macaroni is now 
ready to dish. Put it into the square white china dish ; 
pour the gravy over ; then very slighty scatter with coralline 
pepper. 

"This last item does not add much to the flavour, Isobel, 
but it makes the dish look pretty, which in many cases 
constitutes the virtue of the dish." 

Princely Pancakes. 

" Beat two fresh eggs well. In a second basin mix a tea- 
cupful of flour with a pint of milk. Be sure, Isobel, to dry 
the flour for a moment before the fire, as it will then mix 
much more easily, as well as being lighter. To the flour 
and milk add a pinch of salt and wineglassful of ale ; pass 
it through a sieve into a clean basin, so that there may not 
be a single lump. Now put in the beaten eggs, and stir the 



SAVOC/J^y MOULD. 65 



whole for a quarter of an hour. Get me the round frying- 
pan ; see that it is thoroughly clean ; into it put enough lard 
to grease the pan ; then pour in the batter, a small teacupful 
at a time. 

" When browned on one side, turn the pancakes care- 
fully. Lay on to a hot dish, roll and screen with castor 
sugar. Send them to table as soon after they are cooked 
as possible, or they will taste sodden, no matter how well 
they have been made. Serve with a dish of half lemons." 

Savoury Mould. 

" To-day, Isobel, we will have a savoury mould. You have 
a bowl of jelly left from the veal. Make it as tasty as possible. 
Add a tablespoonful of mushroom ketchup, one of Hoi- 
brook's Worcestershire sauce, a tablespoonful of made 
mustard, half an ounce of isinglass, and salt to taste. 

Boil all well together, then throw in two well-beaten eggs 
(shells as well). Stir well, and pour the whole into a calico 
bag. It passes through more quickly and is as clear as if 
a jelly bag were used. Set the large mould in clear cold 
water for an hour. Now cut me some stars of truffles. The 
jelly is cool enough now to use. Put a thin coating of 
it in the mould, arrange the truffles round the sides in 
uniform lines ; now set a second layer of jelly ; when set, 
place in, a row of three cooked kidneys, cut into halves, 
turning the smooth sides downward, add a coating of jelly ; 
when cooler, lay in the small neck chops, I grilled this 
morning. Arrange a small jam or gallipot in the centre, 
so as to leave a hollow there ; now another coating of jelly^ 
and, lastly, the hard-boiled eggs cut into halves; fill the 
crevices with jelly. 

" In the morning remove the mould by pouring a little hot 
water into the gallipot ; but remember to remove it at once, 

B.B. F 



66 SIMPLE TRIFLE. 



or the jelly will be spoilt ; pull the sides of the tin mould 
away from the jelly, and it will slip out quite easily." 

Simple Trifle. 

" We will have a trifle to-day, Isobel, and you can prepare 
it this morning, and it will only need to have the custard 
poured over it at the last moment. 

" Put three sponge-cakes into a glass bowl, on them pour 
a wine-glassful of sherry, and one of whisky. Spread some 
raspberry jam neatly over the cakes ; now make a custard 
with two well-beaten eggs and nearly a pint of milk ; flavour 
with ten drops of the essence of almonds. As you have no 
milk saucepan, pour it into a jug, which you can then set in 
a pan of warm water ; stir the custard all the time. When 
the water boils, the custard should be done, but you can 
ascertain this by seeing if it has thickened. Remove the 
jug from the pan, stir till nearly cold, and set it in the cellar 
till lunch-time, then pour it over the sponge. 

" Stick blanched and split almonds here and there. 

" Surround the trifle, with the tiny moulds of jelly I made 
yesterday." 

Kidneys and Mushrooms. 

** If you could get three kidneys for luncheon to-day I 
should be glad. Skin them, remove the pieces of white 
fat, and piping, cut each one into half. Dip them in heated 
butter, pepper and wrap every half in a thin slice of bacon, 
fasten with a fine game skewer. Take six mushrooms, skin, 
blanch and stalk them, dust with pepper, wrap each one in 
a thin slice of bacon. Take a wooden skewer ; first spit a 
mushroom, then a kidney, and so on till all are on the 
skewer. Through a sieve dust over them some browned 
bread crumbs ; set in one of the long narrow tins, and put 



PARIS PARTRIDGES. Gj 

into the oven. It is well to put two tins into the oven, for 
it is easy to lift the skewer from one, put it into the other, 
and pour the liquor over, when the kidneys require turning. 
They will be quite done in fifteen minutes in a hot oven. 
While they are cooking, make two long narrow strips of toast ; 
lay half the kidneys and mushrooms on one piece and half 
on the other, pour half the gravy over each. Finely mince 
a little parsley, scatter it over the encased kidney, and dust 
each one with coralline pepper. 

" Garnish with well-washed and drained small cress, or 
watercress, in three rows. I mean on each side of the toast." 

Clear White Soup. 

" Instead of fish to-day, I should like the jelly left from 
the knuckle of veal, made into a clear white soup. I think 
you have about a pint, if dissolved. Let it boil up 
thoroughly; throv/ in a chopped turnip, small piece of 
parsnip, and a stalk of celery. When it has boiled for thirty 
minutes, pass through a wire sieve into a clean stew-pan ; 
when thoroughly heated, season to taste, tlirow into the soup 
tureen a handful of broken vermicelli ; and stir in slowly 
a gill of cream. Send to table very hot, with hot soup 
plates, for no matter how good soup is, it does not taste 
well unless very hot. Serve a dish of dice-shaped pieces of 
toast with the soup." 

Paris Partridges. 

"Fetch the brace of partridge, truss them as for roasting, 
stuff the craws, lard down each side of the breast with lean 
ham. Roll a lump of butter, in a mixture of pepper, 
beaten mace, and nutmeg, put it into the inside, secure 
Vjoth ends, and lay them in a quartern of heated gravy; add 
a tablespoonful of Madeira wine, the same quantity of 
mushroom ketchup, a qrarter of a lemon, and a sprig' of 



68 OLIVES I h^ JELLY. 



sweet marjoram ; let them stew slowly for about thirty 
minutes, then lay the birds on a hot dish, thicken the 
gravy with a teaspoonful of cornflour, and salt to taste. 
Round the bird lay a dozen nicely stewed artichokes, and 
four hard-boiled eggs, cut into quarters. Pour the gravy 
over the dish ; serve with well-washed and dried watercress. 
"This dish is to be served alone for hot luncheon." 

Olives in Jelly. 

"Isobel, you have some cold meat in the larder ; pound it 
in a mortar, then season well with pepper, salt and spice ; 
mince two ounces of fat and lean ham, also beat it in the 
mortar. 

" Form the mixture into small balh, with egg and bread 
crumbs ; wrap them in well-buttered paper, and stew in 
rich gravy for five minutes ; take them out, remove the 
paper, and set them to cool ; cover each with a rich brown 
glaze. 

"Take a mould, line it with a savoury jelly (sherry coloured), 
in this place half a dozen plover's eggs, in a diamond shape, 
then the savoury balls ; cover with jelly an inch thick. 
Arrange the olives on the jelly, and fill up the mould. Set 
it on ice for an hour, or in a cold place for twelve hours. 
You should use a border mould for this purpose, then, 
when the jelly is turned out, we can fill the centre with 
lettuce or watercress. 

" Garnish with a wreath of watercress." 

Roasted Sweetbread. 

"As to-morrow is 'Mothering Sunday,' there will be 
plenty of veal about, and I should very much like a sweet- 
bread to-day, just plainly roasted. 

"First scald it in milk and water, then parboil, take it 



A GOOD RICH PASTE. 69 

from the water, and wipe dry. Lard down the centre with 
a row of calf's kidney, and then with one of larding bacon. 
Brush it over with the beaten yolk of an egg and screen 
with fine bread crumbs. Roast it before the fire in a dutch 
oven till brown, basting well meanwhile with butter, or 
fresh beef-dripping. When cooked, dish it very hot, and 
pour a thickened gravy over. Garnish with slices of lemon 
and tufts of parsley." 

Baked Mushrooms. 

" If mushrooms are cheap to-day, I should like a pound. 
Skin and stalk them, then place in the oven, with a tiny 
bit of butter set on each one. They will be cooked in 
fifteen minutes. As the sweetbreads will take about an 
hour, you can calculate your time. We shall have the 
grapes in jelly to follow this, so that will be enough for 
luncheon to-day." 

Grapes in Jelly. 

" Isobel, you must get a small bunch of blue grapes for 
me, also a quart bottle of sweet calves'-foot jelly. Before 
going out, put the grape mould to soak in cold water ; on 
your return, uncork the bottle and set it near the fire. 
When the jelly has liquefied, half fill the mould ; when a 
little set, place the bunch of grapes in it, and fill up with 
the remainder of the jelly ; set it on ice till wanted. 

" Turn it out carefully into a dish. Garnish with candied 
apricots and maiden-hair fern. This is a sweet and 
easily made dish." 

A Good Rich Paste. 

" You must make me some very rich paste, Isobel. You 
will want eight ounces of flour, and the same quantity of 



< \ 



70 PLATE OF GUDGEON. 

butter. Put the flour into a pan, mix it into a dough 
with the beaten yolk of an egg and a tablespoonful of 
lemon juice ; knead it well with the tips of your fingers, 
then roll it out (away from you). Press the butter into an 
oval shape in the corner of a wet cloth, lay it on the dough 
and roll with the rolling pin (still away from you.) Fold it 
into three, and set aside for fifteen minutes ; it requires to be 
rolled and folded three times, fifteen minutes being allow-ed 
between each time. You now have the richest paste that 
can be made. When ready to use it, squeeze on the juice 
of half a lemon, roll and fold the paste again. It must 
finally be rolled out till no thicker than a five-shilling piece." 

Plate of Gudgeon. 

These are small, river fish. Dust them over with flour, and 

fry them in boiling fat, (without either egg or bread crumb), 

for five minutes, dish on an ornamental paper, place them 

tail to head, serve very hot with thin rolled brown bread 

and butter. A few sprigs of parsley may be placed on the 

dish. 

A Pink Blancmange. 

In a pint of milk boil one ounce of isinglass ; very finely 
pound four sweet and four bitter almonds (first add a 
spoonful of orange water to prevent their oiling) ; stir al- 
together with a tablespoonful of castor sugar, then pour in 
the boiling milk and isinglass ; add enough liquid carmine 
to make it of a good pink, pass the whole through a sieve 
into a jug, stir till nearly cold, then pour it into a well- 
soaked mould, put it on ice or let it stand in a cool place 
for twelve hours, then turn it on to a glass dish. Orna- 
ment with snowdrops or ferns. 

" For luncheon to-day we will have a haddock, some pork, 
and a rhubarb pie." 



RHUBARB TART. 71 

Filletted Haddock. 

Pour half a pint of milk into a clean saucepan ; add an 
ounce of butter, a dust or two of nutmeg, and a blanched 
anchovy. When the liquor boils, put in the fish ; when it 
has simmered for fifteen minutes, remove the fish carefully, 
and throw in two hard-boiled eggs cut into dice. Just let 
the liquor reboil, pour it over the fish, and send to table 
very hot. 

Boned Spare Ribs of Pork Stuffed. 

" Isobel, cut about six pounds from the piece of spare 
ribs of pork that was sent in yesterday. It consists of the 
flat bones cut from the loin. In the Midland counties we 
use it for pies or grilling ; now I am going to bone, stuff, 
and roll it. When cooked you will not be able to distin- 
guish it from duck. With one cut, the bone will almost 
slip out ; flatten the meat with the side of the chopper, dust 
it with pepper, and cover with the following stuffing. 

" Mince two pounds of well-boiled onions, a tablespoonful 
of the dried leaves of sage, rolled between the fingers, and a 
pound of chopped apples ; mix altogether, and season with 
pepper and salt. Roll the meat up tightly, fasten at both 
ends with tape, put it before the fire or in the oven, and 
baste often. It will be quite cooked in an hour and half. 
Dish it very hot ; serve with brussels-sprouts, potatoes, and 
plenty of good apple sauce. The potatoes should be large 
ones, well roasted, and sent to table without their skins, 
like a dish of flour." 

Rhubarb Tart. 

" You remember how to make puff paste ; I want you to 
make a rhubarb tart. The rhubarb is of a beautiful colour ; 



72 WHITE SOUP WITH OYSTERS. 

and takes no longer to cook than the paste ; cut the stick into 
pieces the length of your pie-dish, wash but do not skin it, 
place a layer of rhubarb, then one of candied peel, and two 
other layers in the same order ; now a tablespoonful of sugar 
and one of claret. Cover the dish with the paste, mark it 
round with a fork, set it in the oven, and be sure to watch 
it carefully. The tart will be done in fifteen minutes. Send 
a jug of cream to table with the tart." 



White Soup with Oysters. 

" Now this soup must be made from the lean part of a 
neck of mutton, with about three pounds of knuckle of 
veal. You remember, Isobel, that stock for soup must 
always be made on the previous day, so that the fat can be 
clearly and easily taken from it. As it is sure to be in a 
jelly (when you have freed it from fat), you may just warm 
it, and strain carefully, taking care that no sediment passes 
through the sieve. 

" Into a pint of water put one small turnip, one carrot, an 
onion, a blade of mace, a bundle of parsley, and a stalk of 
celery ; add a pinch of salt. Never put the latter ingredient 
in liquor containing meat, as it is apt to turn the meat red. 
It does not matter on this occasion, but, as a rule, it is 
better to season just before serving. Put the jelly into a 
clean stewpan, strain in the water from the vegetables. Add 
a dozen bearded oysters, that have been well rinsed in their 
own liquor. 

"Pull the stewpan back from the fire ; slowly and gradually 
stir in half a gill of cream. If you add a glass of sherry it 
is a very great improvement. 

" Send the soup very hot to table with half lemons." 



BOILED FOWL AND RICE. 73 

Roast Cod's Head and Shoulders with Cockles. 

" I think, Isobel, we will have a roast cod's head and 
shoulders to-day. 

"The fish will first require to be well washed and salted, 
then set it in a dutch oven before the fire ; at the end of 
half an hour, you must strain off any water that has come 
from it, then strew a little beaten mace, a good pinch of 
grated nutmeg, and a dash of any good mixed powdered 
spice, over the head. . 

" A moment or two afterwards, dredge with flour and baste 
well with butter ; after a time, turn and serve the other side 
in the same way. When the fish is half cooked, sprinkle it 
with a few fine crumbs of bread. It takes altogether about 
two hours' good roasting. 

"Make a good melted butter; pound about two ounces of 
the liver (boiled) ; mix in a tablespoonful of anchovy sauce, 
and the yolks of two eggs, well beaten. When it boils, 
strain into a clean saucepan, throw in half a pint of pickled 
cockles ; add the juice of a lemon, and a wineglassful of 
sherry ; take up the fish, lay on to a hot dish, garnish with 
parsley and lemon slices. 

" Pour the gravy into the tin in which the fish was cooked ; 
stir well till it boils, and then pour into a tureen. 

" This is a rich, but very economical dish." 

Boiled Fowl and Rice. 

" We will have the chicken that the man left ready dressed 
for boiling yesterday. 

"Will you re-heat the mutton broth. When hot lay in the 
chicken, throw in a minced onion, three cloves, a teaspoon- 
ful of whole all-spice, and a blade of mace. Let all simmer 
slowly for half an hour, then you may put in the rice we 



71 POULET A LA FRANC A IS E. 

have had soaking for six hours ; simmer till all is tender. 
Strain off the rice ; set it on a sieve before the fire. Put 
the bird on a hot dish, arrange the rice in little hillocks 
around it. Season the gravy with a little salt, stir in a 
tablespoonful of minced parsley, and let it boil. Serve in 
a hot tureen." 

Poulet a la Frangaise. 

" Isobel, I mean to show you how to prepare a French 
dish to-day, so order in a spring chicken. Into its body 
put an ounce of butter well worked in flour, season with 
salt and the juice of a lemon ; lard the breast with cloves 
and truffles, instead of bacon. See that the breast looks 
plump and fat. Into a stew-pan put a lump of butter, the 
juice of a lemon, and a gill of rich stock ; in this lay the 
bird, and cover with buttered paper ; then cook it with fire 
under and over, as on p. 75. When done, drain, dish 
carefully, and pour the following sauce around the fowl : — 

Tomato Sauce. 

" Choose half a dozen ripe tomatoes, press them through 
the hands into a stew-pan ; add a piece of butter the size of 
an egg, a bay leaf, and a dash of nutmeg ; stir well till the 
whole resembles a thick soup ; add a gill of gravy, or a tea- 
spoonful of beef essence mixed in a gill of water. Rub the 
whole through a wire sieve into a clean stew-pan ; add a 
tablespoonful of gravy, season with pepper, and salt, and a 
dash of cayenne." 

Tasty Turkey. 

" The turkey you bought yesterday is old, Isobel, but it 
does not much matter ; I will show you how we can cook 
it. 

" Take two squares of larding bacon, press it well in a 



STAFFORDSHIRE PIE. 75 

mixture of salt, pepper, fine-powdered spice and minced 
parsley, then fasten it on the breast Avith tape. Truss the 
bird, and wrap it in a cloth ; sew and tie the ends securely. 
Line the bottom of the stew-pan with trimmings from the 
raw veal and slices of bacon. On this lay the bird, and 
throw into the pan a bunch of parsley, four shallots, three 
cloves of garlic, two bay leaves, two carrots, and a large 
onion stuck with cloves. Moisten the whole with stock, 
and add a wine-glassful of brandy. When thoroughly hot, 
put in enough boiling water to cover the turkey, then screen 
with bacon, and lastly with buttered paper. Let it boil, 
then set it over the fire, and scatter hot cinders on the lid, 
which must, of course, be a sunken one. Let it simmer for 
four hours ; when about half done, turn the turkey, again 
tightly cover the pan, and let it finish cooking. When you 
take it from the fire, let it nearly cool in the liquor. Dish 
the bird, pass the seasoning in which it has cooked through 
a fine sieve, clarify with the shells and whites of two eggs, 
when cool it will be a jelly. 

" Remove the cloth from the turkey, pour some of the 
jelly over the bird, reserve enough to ornament the dish. 

" Garnish with hillocks of the jelly chopped finely. The 
turkey must be eaten cold." 

Staffordshire Pie. 

" There are few cooker^r books that do not contain a dish 
under the title of ' Staffordshire Pie.' Some are very elabo- 
rate, others extremely simple. We will make one to-day, 
as it constitutes a luncheon in itself, is easily served, sub- 
stantial and savoury. 

" You must get me a goose, a duck, a tongue, and a 
couple of pigeons, all ready for the spit. 



76 VEGETARIAN PIE. 



"Give me the marrow hand-saw, and the large brown 
stone pan ; butter it all over. 

" See, I saw the goose right down the back, remove the 
skewers and lay it flat, then hammer the breast a little. I 
treat each bird in the same way, and lay one inside the 
other — />., duck in the goose, tongue in the duck, and a 
pigeon on each side to fill in the crevices. Now make a 
forcemeat, according to my recipe (p. 44) ; with this cover 
the bird entirely. (Let thyme predominate in the stuffing.) 
The crust must not be rich, for we shall not eat it, but it 
must be made very ornamental, with a large rose at the top 
(put on after the hole has been made), by which to raise 
the crust. The gravy should be added when the pie is 
taken from the oven. If the gravy does not jelly of itself, 
we must add half an ounce of isinglass before it is poured 
into the pie." 

Vegetarian Pie. 

" You have never seen me make a salad pie, so I will 
make one to-day. Get me a basketful of salad — that is, a 
fresh lettuce, a bundle of parsley, four or five round 
radishes, a leaf of burrage, some mustard and cress. These, 
with the bunch of watercress we have, will be quite enough. 

" Now wash all well, drain them on a cloth. Wash the 
mustard and cress alone in a cullender^ for if bruised 
it is worthless. Arrange the white leaves of the lettuce, 
stalk downwards, on the dish ; now the mustard and cress ; 
around that the radishes, then the tufts of watercress. 

" Screen the pie with boiled beetroot, cut into neat slices. 
Make a chain of the whites of hard-boiled eggs cut into 
shces. We shall require the yolks for the mayonnaise. You 
remember how to make that, but as there are several ways, 
I will now show you another. You had better write down 
the order in which the ingredients come. 



CHICKEN SOUP. 77 



Mayonnaise Sauce. 

" First of all, The yolk of a raw egg, then, 
A teasDOonful of suo;ar, 
A pinch of salt, 

A mustard-spoonful of made mustard, 
Two tablespoonfuls of salad oil, 
A teaspoonful of good anchovy sauce, ^ 
Two tablespoonfuls of tarragon vinegar, 
And half a gill of cream. 
'^ Mix the egg and sugar, then pour in the oil, drop by 
drop ; add the anchovy sauce, then the vinegar very slowly, 
lastly the cream. 

" Do not now pour the mayonnaise over the salad ; but 
just before sending to table. Keep the salad in a dark 
place, covered with a damp cloth. This is a good pie for a 
picnic. 

" We will only have a light luncheon to-day, Isobel. The 
soup we will flavour with Liebig Company's extract ; and a 
tablespoonful of finely minced parsley, scattered on the top." 

Roasted Larks. 

Cook half a dozen larks on the skewer as they come 
from the poulterer's ; first cover them with a little liquid 
butter. They will be thoroughly cooked in fifteen mintues. 
Send the birds to table on lengths of buttered toast, laid on 
a bed of small cress. 

Chicken Soup with Rolls of Filletted Sole. 

"To-day I shall require a quart of clear chicken broth, 
t'hough it will require to be very tasty, there must not be 
^he least colouring in it. Add a bunch of parsley, a 
quarter of an ounce of isinglass, a turnip, a carrot, a leek, 



78 BRAWN FOR BREAKFAST. 

a blade of mace, a teaspoonful of tarragon vinegar, a mustard- 
spoonful of made mustard, and salt to taste. Let the soup 
boil for twenty minutes, then pass it through a calico bag ; 
while the liquor is running through, you can fillet these 
Dover soles. They are not much bigger than dabs. Each 
sole will make four fillets ; roll each one, tie with a piece 
of tape. Pour the strained liquor into a clean saucepan to 
reheat, then lay in the eight pieces of fish you have just 
rolled ; watch them carefully, for they will be spoilt if broken; 
add the juice of a lemon, a wine-glassful of sherry, then lift 
out the fillets, put them in the tureen, and pour the soup 
over. 

Brawn for Breakfast. 

Boil a pickled head of pork (taken straight from the brine) 
in enough water to cover ; let it simmer slowly till the meat 
begins to leave the bone. Take the liquor, season it well 
with a teaspoonful of allspice, a dash of cayenne, and one 
of nutmeg. Again let the liquor boil, till reduced to half 
its quantity ; then strain it off; add two tablespoonfuls of 
ketchup, the juice of a lemon, and a wine-glassful of sherry ; 
cut the meat into dice-shaped pieces, throw; them into the 
liquor, stir all together, add enough pepper and salt to taste, 
and pour it into an oil mould ; set it aside for a night in a 
cold place. 

To-morrow turn it out carefully on to a dish. Garnish 
with flowers or salad ; serve with lemons, larded with 
cayenne. 

Of course you must not dip the mould into hot water, for 
it takes the glaze off the jelly. Use a tin shape, for you 
can then pull the sides away from the jelly ; set the bottom 
of the mould on a hot cloth for a second, as it is a very 
ornamental one. 



KIDNAPPED OYSTERS WITH KIDNEYS. 79 

Neats' Feet Brawn. 

Boil a pair of well-dressed neats' (calves') feet till tender ; 
pick the flesh entirely from the bones. Into this put about 
three pounds of pickled, streaky pork ; remove all the bone, 
roll the meat from the feet in the pork, wrap it in a clean 
cloth, and secure firmly with tape. Again set it in the liquor 
to cook, till so tender that a straw can easily be passed 
through the meat. Hang it in a clean cloth, when cold, 
souse in malt vinegar for ten minutes. Dish on an orna- 
mental paper. Garnish plentifully with parsley. 

Chocolate Pie with Apricots. 

Rasp an ounce of French chocolate and a slice of cin- 
namon into a basin ; add the grated rind of a fresh lemon, 
with sugar to taste. 

Mix together two dessertspoonfuls of best biscuit-flour 
and the yolks of three eggs, well beaten, with a pint of new 
milk. Pour the whole into a clean stew-pan ; set it over a 
clear fire until just heated, then take it away from the 
fire. When cold, pour it into a pie dish, lined with a light 
puff paste ; cover the mixture with the whipped whites of the 
three eggs, and bake in a slow oven for twenty minutes. 

Screen the pie with castor sugar, and arrange over it a 
dozen stoned apricots. 

" Isobel, remember to place this pie on a dish covered 
with flowers. Just warm it before serving for breakfast." 

Kidnapped Oysters with Kidneys. 

" I want you, Isobel, to order six kidneys and a dozen 
Blue Point oysters from the stores in Fourteenth Street. 

"Skin the kidneys, remove the white pipe, cut them length- 
wise and dip in heated butter ; pepper slightly, pop them 
into the greased tin, set them in a hot oven till the gravy 



8o DISH OF FOREIGN QUAILS. 

begins to run. There ; they are now done to a turn. Give 
me a fine wooden skewer ; on it I will first put half a kidney, 
then an oyster, and so on, till I have used half our kidneys. 
Now another skewer ; we will treat the remainder in the 
same way. Dip in heated butter, sprinkle with bread 
crumbs, baste well while cooking, dish very hot. 

" Roast in the oven, three large tomatoes, pulp them 
through a wire sieve into a clean saucepan, add a lump of 
butter, a dust of cayenne, and the juice of a lemon. Stir 
carefully ; when thoroughly heated pour it on to the dish 
containing the kidneys, so that they may be screened with 
the sauce. Stick tufts of parsley here and there. 

Dish of Foreign Quails. 

These foreign quails are very nice if properly cooked. 
Brush over them some salad oil, set them in the dutch oven 
before the fire, baste with liquid butter, and every now and 
then give them a squeeze of lemon. Dish very hot on 
buttered toast. 

Garnish with little sprays of watercress. 

Ribboned Jelly. 

" To-day we will have a ribboned jelly, of white, pink and 
green colours. Make a blancmange with an ounce of isin- 
glass and a tablespoonful of orange water, dissolved in a pint 
of milk. When it has boiled, sweeten with four lumps of 
sugar ; pour it into three different vessels. Leave one of 
them white, the second, colour with cochineal, and the third 
with pressed juice of spinach. Pour the white blancmange 
into a well-soaked mould ; when it has nearly set, pour in the 
contents of the green vessel, and after a while that of the 
pink one. 

" When you turn out the mould to-morrow, arrange a jar- 



CANDIED MURELLA CHERRIES. 8i 

ful of these preserved apricots round the dish. This makes 
a pretty central dish when set on a raised stand. 

Jelly Trifle. 

" Bring in a rich Madeira cake with you, Isobel, for I 
want to make another sweet dish. While I cut the cake 
into thin round slices with this sharp knife, you may place 
each one in a dish, and pour on to it a little of this half- 
warmed jelly. We will place the dish on ice, so that the 
jelly will set at once. 

"Now that we have all our slices of cake sandwiched with 
jelly, I \vill cut it right down into quarters, and spread the 
cream I have just whipped on the top." 

Savoury of Filberts. 

" Isobel, you must prepare a dish of savoury filberts for 
Sunday. 

" Crack half a pound of filberts, remove the kernels from 
the shells, blanch them with boiling water ; as you skin 
each one, drop it into a wine-glassful of brandy. 

" Put an ounce of butter into a pan, with a pinch of salt, 
and the smallest dust of cayenne ; stir in the kernels with a 
silver spoon, moving carefully every moment over a slow 
clear fire, till quite brown. 

" Be very careful not to let it burn. The nuts when quite 
done must be taken very carefully from the pan and laid on 
kitchen paper, so that they may be quite free from all 
grease. Dish on an ornamental paper." 

Candied Murella Cherries for Garnish. 

" I also want you to take a tablespoonful of cherries from 
the cherry brandy ; lay them on a cloth. Make a fruit glace 
by letting a pound of sugar simmer in a coffee-cupful of 

P.B. G 



S2 A BREAST OF VEAL. 



water, till it cracks if thrown into cold water. While it is 
boiling, do not stain it, Isobel. 

" Remove from the fire ; when nearly cold, stick the 
cherries on a knitting pin, immerse them in the glace, then 
set on a plate near the fire to harden. Keep them in a glass 
bottle to use as garnish." 

A Breast of Veal Forced and Larded. 

"As to-morrow is Mothering Sunday, we will have a 
breast of veal forced and larded. 

" First make a forcemeat for the veal (page 44). See, 
Isobel, my knife is very sharp, and I run it between the 
meat and the bones ; stuff the forcemeat into the crevice, 
and sew up the end with white worsted to keep it safe. 
Now, you see, I shall blanch it, by dipping the meat two 
or three times into boiling water. Now dry it, and lard with 
fat bacon, lightly dust it with fine flour, and spice mixed. 
Now it is quite ready to be put into a jar at eleven to- 
morrow morning ; it will be cooked at two o'clock. 

" Lay slices of bacon and a minced shallot, season with 
pepper and fine allspice, then lay the meat larded side 
downwards in the jar. 

" Put thin slices of bacon over it, another minced shallot, 
a cluster of mixed sweet herbs, a rasher of ham, and again 
season with pepper, salt, and fine spice. Put on the lid of 
the jar, and set in the oven. 

" When thoroughly heated, pour in a gill of any sort of 
rich sweet stock ; cover the whole with two well-washed 
heads of lettuce. 

" When the meat is ready, place it on a hot dish ; while 
you mince the lettuce, ham, and bacon, I will strain the 
liquor into a clean saucepan, and thicken it with a dessert- 
spoonful of flour mixed, with a little cold stock. When it 



HINTS FOR THE HOUSEWIFE. %i 

boils, add the minced lettuce, ham, and bacon ; pour the 
whole around the meat. Garnish well with slices of lemon 
and tufts of parsley, set here and there. Serve with half 
lemons." 

At this time Isobel told me that she must be leaving me, 
so I promised to write down a certain number of hints and 
instructions to help her in cooking by-and-by. 

I also gave her recipes for the preparation of cutlets, 
cakes, colourings for gravies, a few invalid dishes, and many 
that I have tried myself. They were as follows : — 

Hints for the Housewife. 

Whether servant or mistress, you should always remember 
that no matter how good the spread, you should be nattily 
and tastefully dressed, according to your position, or the 
meal loses half its charm. 

There is hardly anything in a larder that need be wasted, 
even by the most inexperienced people. I fear that many 
servants and wealthy mistresses will hereafter be called to 
account for much waste. 

Liquor from all boiled articles, dripping from roast meats, 
are all capable of being re-used. The former should be 
boiled, salted, strained, and put into clean stone or crock 
vessels till required for soups or gravies ; the latter into clean 
galley or jam-pots. Beef dripping is better for frying meat 
than any other, as it stands the heat better than butter or 
lard. 

When dripping is no longer fit for pastry, it should be 
boiled in a pot of water, with a pinch of borax, or a tea- 
spoonful of Condys Fluid, poured into a stone vessel to get 
cool, then it can be used for frying fish. 

No matter how good the cook may be, she must be very 



84 COLD MEAT. 



careful to use plenty of fat in frying, so that the article 
may be perfectly covered. A wire basket is the best thing 
to use in the frying of cutlets, etc. The fish must be 
placed in this basket and plunged into any shallow stew-pan 
containing heated fat ; thus done they will never burn, but 
will brown very well. Fish, egged and screened with bread 
crumbs, will cook in ten minutes, and requires no turning 
or attention ; but be very careful to drain it on kitchen 
paper before dishing for the table. Very many people can- 
not bear hashes, stews, or cold meat. 

Cold Meat. 

A good way to treat cold meat, is to cut it into thick slices, 
each of which must be dipped into mutton fat ; pepper it 
well, and lay all on a clean gridiron which has been well 
rubbed with a lump of suet. Turn the meat continually ; 
it is a great mistake to do so only once, as it then burns and 
gets very dry. 

While cooking meat on the grid, it is a good plan to 
spread a little dripping on each slice ; after it is cooked, 
drain on kitchen paper, serve on a hot dish and add a 
squeeze of lemon. Garnish with parsley, watercress, or 
small cress. 

Mutton fat should be used for frying mutton, beef drip- 
ping for beef, etc. ; thus you will never destroy the flavour 
of the meat. 

Cold roast beef can also be grilled or fried, and served 
with horseradish. 

Plates and dishes must always be hot. 

Minced Meat. 

As well as grilling and frying, you can mince the meat 
very finely. Cut off all the meat close to the bone, lay it 



GRAVIES, CO U USES, AND SOUPS. 85 

aside, chop the bones well, but reserve all the marrow (if 
any). 

Be very careful to remove any jagged bones of splinter 
that may be in the meat. 

Put them into water in a stew-pan, add an onion, a 
carrot, a leek, a stalk of celery, parsnip or turnip, or both, 
if the flavour is liked. 

Let all boil slowly for an hour and a half, then strain, 
through a fine sieve, into a clean saucepan. Thicken as 
much of the liquor as you require with flour, add a mustard- 
spoonful of made mustard, with salt and pepper to taste. 
Let the liquor come to a boil ; then take the meat which 
you have cut up small, minced, or grated, and stir it into 
the gravy. While all simmers, toast a round of bread, lay 
it on the dish, and pour the mince on the toast. 

This is a good way to use up the cold meat that cannot 
possibly be served in any other way. 

Sausage Cakes. 

Take those parts of pork that are unsuitable for chops ; 
mince them finely ; season with pepper, salt and mustard ; 
add a fourth part of bread crumbs, and roll each up in a 
piece of caul of the required size. Grill the cakes over a 
clear fire. 

This will be found a very tempting dish for breakfast or 
luncheon. 

Gravies, Coulises, and Soups. 

Remember, I never throw away any stock or liquor ; 
these, with the addition of vegetables, bones from fowl, 
meat, and a glass of wine, make good gravies, etc. The 
wine is not really extravagant, for when a bottle is decanted, 
the dregs that remain can be set aside for this purpose, as 



86 COLD FOWL, 



the sediment will sink to the bottom, leaving the liquor 
clear. Lemon juice added to the stock gives a pleasant 
flavour. 

All soup should be prepared the day before it is re- 
quired, for then every particle of fat can be removed. Soup 
can be clarified with the whites and shells of two eggs, and 
then passed through a jelly bag. 

Cold Fowl. 

Pick the meat from any portion of fowl that may remain. 

Put the bones on to stew, with an onion, a bundle of 
parsley and a carrot. When they have cooked for an hour, 
pass the liquor through a sieve into another stew-pan ; stir 
in an ounce of isinglass, set it over the fire ; when it is 
dissolved, stir in the contents of a small pot of Liebig's 
extract ; throw in the chicken, stir all vv^li, then season to 
taste. 

When all are thoroughly blended, pour the whole into 
a well-soaked mould. Put it away for the night. Next 
morning turn out the jelly on to a glass dish, or white 
china one. Garnish with parsley, or any green salad. 

Fish. 

You must remember that fish should never be allowed 
to boil, only to simmer; when cooked, it should at once be 
dished and sent to table. 

Turbot and legs of mutton should be short and plump. 

Salmon should have small heads and bright scales ; the 
fish should be thick at the neck, and have a stiff body. 

Mackerel should be cooked as soon after it has been 
taken from the water as is possible, for it keeps worse than 
any fish, owing, it is believed, to the mackerel being carni- 



SOUSED OR PICKLED SALMON. 87 



vorous. If placed in vinegar when quite fresh, they will 
keep well, and the flavour will be better. 

In the cleaning of fish, it is best to rub with fine salt. 
Open the fish far enough down, scrape the back-bone well, 
wash it thoroughly, but never leave it too long in water, as 
this deprives it of the full flavour. But when washed, wrap 
it in a clean dry cloth till ready to fry, broil or boil. 

All articles look best at table when prettily garnished, 
especially fish. 

When frying parsley, take it by the stalk, straight from 
the water, throw it into a pan of boiling fat ; it will at once 
crisp, and be of a good colour. Remove it carefully with 
a slice, and lay it on paper to drain. 

I have prepared many dishes with your help, and here 
are some more ways of cooking fish, which we have not 
yet tried : — 

Sturgeon. 

Some people find this a very indigestible dish, as it 
much resembles veal ; others say it is fish, fowl, and flesh 
combined. 

. Two pounds is enough to cook at a time. Par-boil it in 
a little salted water, with a dash of vinegar added. Have 
ready a stew-pan that is large enough to hold it, and with 
enough gravy to cover. The gravy must be flavoured with 
sweet herbs, onions, a wine-glassful of sherry, and the juice 
of a lemon. 

Allow the fish to simmer till quite tender, but not 
broken. Garnish with forcemeat balls, made in the same 
manner as for a veal-stuffing. 

Soused or Pickled Salmon. 

In sousing salmon in spiced vinegar, always cover the 
vessel tightly, and see that the fish is thoroughly immersed 



88 SCALLOPS. 

under the vinegar, then it will keep good and sweet for three 
weeks. In all description of pickling, add a small quantity 
of sugar, as it deprives the vinegar of its acid flavour, and 
makes it keep longer. 

Scallops. 

Nearly everything in the way of meat, fowl, fish, or even 
vegetables, can be made into scallops, which make a tasty 
dish for invalids. The chief ingredients used in making 
scallops are white gravy, cream, butter, bread crumbs, lemon 
juice, pounded mace and nutmeg. 

Crimped Skate. 

I have never prepared a dish of crimped skate, because 
the fish has to be cut while alive, the crimping being due 
to the contraction caused by pain. This fish, it is said, 
takes a longer time to die than any other. 

Sprats. 

These are a much-despised little fish, but if properly 
cooked they make a very dainty dish. When cleaned (they 
must only be wiped with a dry cloth) thread through the 
heads on a skewer, then grill ; when cooked, lay them on 
a hot dish, squeeze the juice from a lemon over them. 
Garnish with fried parsley. 

Carp. 

Neither have we cooked carp. This fish is doubtless 
one of the greatest dainties you can set before an epicure, 
if properly cooked. Many cooks prepare and make the 
sauce from the fish's own blood, and so must be capable 
of killing it themselves. I know of a good many ways of 
cooking this fish. Here is one, but extravagant : — 



TROUT. 89 



Carp a la Petite Chambre. 

Scale, gut, and wash a fine large carp ; remove the skin, 
and lard one side with bacon. Make a forcemeat with a 
veal sweetbread, mushrooms, truffles, and cocks'-combs, 
all finely minced ; stuff the fish with thi«; forcemeat. Pour 
the contents of two bottles of wine into an oval fish-kettle ; 
add a minced onion, the tliinly-cut rind of half a lemon, 
and a pinch of salt ; set the pan over the fire ; when the 
liquor boils, put in the carp, let all simmer for ten minutes, 
then take the pan from the stove. 

Have ready a tasty jelly, made from the shin of veal, with 
slices of bacon, seasoned with onions, cloves and garlic. 

Put this jelly into a clean fish-kettle ; lay the carp on the 
strainer, and when the jelly has boiled, place in the strainer, 
and let the liquor simmer till the fish is cooked. Then take 
it up carefully, lay it on a hot dish ; mix the two liquors 
together, and boil for five minutes, then thicken with a 
lump of butter rolled in flour ; strain and pour over the fish. 
This dish is equally good eaten either hot or cold. 

Trout. 

To my taste, the nicest way to cook salmon-trout is to 
boil it in vinegar, salt, and water ; serve it up quite plain 
with lemon sauce alone. 

But, like carp, there are twenty ways of preparing this 
fish. Here is one, also a little extravagant : — 

See that the trout are scaled, washed, and wiped dry ; 
put them into a stew-pan with a bottleful of white wine, a 
bunch of sweet herbs, a little grated nutmeg, a clove of 
garlic, a gill of clear veal stock, and an ounce of boiled 
truffles, cut into slices, with pepper and salt to taste. 

When the fish is done, place it on a hot dish, then let 



90 HOME-MADE KETCHUP, 



the sauce boil hard for a minute ; put in a teaspoonful of 
essence, together with the juice of a lemon ; add a small 
lump of butter slightly rubbed in flour ; let all boil ; pour it 
over the fish. Serve with a dish of sliced cucumbers, well- 
oiled, and a tablespoonful of tarragon vinegar poured over 
the slices. 

Home-made Ketchup. 

No gravies or sauces can be of the proper taste unless 
some kind of ketchup has been used in their decoction. 
Here is a very good recipe for making some of this most 
important relish : — 

Into a wide-necked stone bottle put a pint of the best 
white wine vinegar, a dozen skinned shallots, slightly bruised; 
add a gill of white wine, that has been well-heated, and a 
dozen blanched and filletted anchovies, which have been 
dissolved in the wine. When all in the bottle is quite cold, 
put in a second gill of white wine, three blades of mace, a 
piece of ginger, a dozen cloves, a teaspoonful of mixed 
pepper-corns ; grate in half a nutmeg and the rind of a 
fresh lemon, and one dessert-spoonful of horse-radish. Cover 
the jar tightly with a bladder, then with brown paper. Dur- 
ing the first week shake the bottle well twice a day. No 
sauce can surpass this when mixed with the pressed liquor 
from mushrooms. 

If red wine be used instead of white, it will of course 
make the ketchup of a much better colour; but you can 
colour it with any browning you prefer. You may use this 
sauce for flavouring fish, and savoury dishes of meat, soups, 
etc. It will keep good for years if properly corked and set 
in a dry place. 



HINTS ON MUSHROOM PICKLING. 91 

Home-pickled Cucumber. 

We use a great deal of pickled gherkin and cucumber 
in most made dishes, so it is much more economical to 
prepare your own. 

Buy the cucumbers when they are full grown, but not 
yellow ; slice them half an inch thick, treat one or two 
onions in the same way (allowing that quantity to about two 
or three cucumbers). Cover the slices of cucumber and 
onion with fine salt, and let them stand all night. In the 
morning, strain away all the liquor that has come from the 
cucumbers ; dry them in a cloth. Season as much vinegar, 
as will cover the pickles, with an ounce of mixed spice and 
a quarter of nutmeg ; when it has boiled, pour it at once 
over the cucumbers, and cover the jar closely. Three days 
afterwards, drain the liquor from the cucumbers and reboil, 
again pour it into the jar over the cucumbers, and reboil it ; 
do the same a third time ; see they are well-covered, then 
cover the jar with a bladder and brown paper. 

Pickled Barberries. 

Mix the same quantity of distilled water and white wine 
vinegar together ; put it into a clean pan ; to every quart of 
this liquor put eight ounces of sugar ; set the pan over the 
fire, and throw in a few of the barberries, well bruised. Let 
it boil for half an hour ; strain, and when nearly cold, pour 
it over the barberries, in a glass jar ; tie over all a piece of 
bladder and brown paper. 

Hints on Mushroom Pickling. 

There are many ways to pickle mushrooms, but a safe 
way to keep them, when they hive been pickled, is to pour 



92 HOME-MADE WHITE WINE. 

— --■ ■ ■■■ — ■ ■ . ■ — ■ ■ ,111 ... — — ■— ■ ■ . — . — ..■■■ 

enough oil on them to cover to about an inch in depth ; 
this must be done when they are quite cold. 

Home-Made White Wine for Cooking. 

To three gallons of water put eight pounds of Lisbon 
sugar, and boil for half an hour, skimming well the whole 
time. Then take a gallon of white currants (picked), pour 
the boiling hot liquor over them, but do not crush the 
currants. 

When the wine is Just warm, put into it a round of toast, 
spread with brewer's barm, not yeast ; keep it working for 
two days, and then strain through a flannel bag. 

Put it into a barrel, just large enough to contain it, and 
throw in an ounce of isinglass. Swinborne's is the best. 

When it has finished working, cover the jar closely for a 
week, then bottle, and into each bottle put a lump of the 
best white sugar. Cork tightly. 

This will be found to be a very capital wine for cooking 
purposes. 

Curry Powder. 

You may have to prepare curries, so I will give you a few 
words of counsel as to their making. It is best to buy the 
powder, and, in my opinion, the Bombay or Bengal is best. 

Few people seem to know that the principal ingredient 
in a really well made curry is such fruits as mangoes, 
(dried or green), tamarinds (salted or fresh), green ginger, 
lime juice, cocoanut and almonds. Also that a quantity of 
the milk of cocoanut is much used in the making of gravies 
for curries. 

Pine-apple Truffle. 

Peel a ripe pine-apple, cut it into slices, lay it in a deep 
glass dish, then cover it over with a quarter of a pound of 



SAVOURIES. 93 



castor sugar. Let it stand for six hours. Just before serving, 
pour over it a small bottle of sherry, and one of cham- 
pagne. 

Pine-apple Jelly. 

Peel and trim a pine-apple (a foreign one will answer the 
purpose), mince it finely, taking care to catch all the juice. 
Put all together in a basin, then add two gills of any white 
wine (Canary sack is best), an ounce of isinglass, and three 
lumps of sugar. Put it into the oven, when the isinglass is 
thoroughly dissolved, throw in the shells of two eggs, and 
pass all through a calico bag, into a well soaked mould. 
Set it on ice, or in a cold place for twelve hours. Turn it 
out on to a glass dish next day. Garnish with any flowers 
that may be seasonable. 

How to Counteract the Effect of Wine. 

» Many people indulge in v/ine after dinner, not, perhaps, 
so much that they care for the stimulant, but that they fear 
they will look small, if they do not share in the conviviality 
of the table. 

If they could be persuaded to drink a tablespoonful of 
salad oil, they would feel no ill effects from the wine during 
the night. 

Olives not only counteract the wine, but also help to dis- 
sipate its effects. 

Before dinner many Germans will often drink off a glassful 
of salad oil and vinegar, mixed in equal proportions. 

Savouries. 

Mash with a silver fork the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs, 
on a plate, add a salt-spoonful of salt, and two mustard- 
spoonfuls of mustard ; rub the whole well together, then add 
by degrees, two tablespoonfuls of salad oil, two of tarragon 



94 CUCUMBER SAVOURY. 



vinegar, stirring one way the whole time, until all are blended 
and smooth ; then add two blanched and filleted anchovies 
pounded. 

Carefully stir in half a gill of cream, spread the mixture 
on thinly cut brown bread. Lay on the bread one skinned 
prawn, and roll each piece separately. Lay all in a block sur- 
rounded by olives. 

Cucumber Savoury. 

Peel a cucumber, leaving a slice of the green the whole 
way down. Then cut very thin slices, lay them in salad oil 
for half an hour, then sprinkle with tarragon vinegar. Pre- 
pare slices of boiled beet-root in the same manner, and 
arrange both in a ring on a dish, overlapping each other. 

In the centre lay pickled scarlet runners, wheel shape. 
Lay olives in rows between the beans. 

Olive Sandwiches. 

Stone and cut into slices a dozen olives, then butter some 
thinly cut bread, and spread it with anchovy sauce. 

Lay the slices of olives on one of these pieces, fold one 
over it, and press both together. Cut into finger lengths, and 
lay a sprig of chervil on each sandwich. 

Kavier. 

Kavier is considered a great delicacy by many people. 
It is the spawn of the sturgeon, and is not at its prime until 
a small white spot is discernible. 

It is eaten raw on toast and butter, but must first be 
thoroughly cleansed in the same manner as calves' brains. 

It should be seasoned with finely chopped shallots, pepper 
and salt. This is a dish very much favoured by the 
Russians, who pay the Tartars a very high price for it. 



FRENCH WORDS. 95 



Birds. 

A few words as to birds. 

The flesh of birds which live on grain is for the most 
part preferable to that of those who feed on insects or fish. 

The partridge, the pheasant, as well as the turkey and 
moor game, are by many connoisseurs more esteemed than 
goose, duck, or even woodcock. 

With water birds the flesh is apt to taste strongly of fish. 
This can easily be remedied by burying the bird underground 
for three or four days. The skin and all fat from the inside 
ought to be removed before dressing it. A peeled lemon 
put into the body of the bird takes away all the fishy and 
oily taste, to which the flesh of these birds is subject. 

Many sportsmen say that there is no bird, or part of a 
bird, that may not be eaten with safety ; nevertheless, many 
species are very oily, tough, and of bad flavour. 

French Words. 

The meaning of a few of the French words so much used 
in cookery books would not here be out of place, although 
it is said that a little knowledge is a dangerous thing. 

Brider means to truss a fowl or any bird, meat, or fish, 
with a needle and pack-thread, or tape. 

Barber is to cover with slices of bacon, or hog's fat. 

To arrange en chevrette means to arrange in a garland 
two things overlapping each other round a dish. 

Glacer^ to reduce a gravy till it becomes a strong jelly, 
by slowly boiling away. 

Masquer means to screen anything with a thick sauce. 

Paillasse, grill over red hot cinders, or charcoal. 

Piiits, a space left in the centre of a dish, so as to form 
a v/ell. 



96 POOR MAN'S GOOSE. 

Singer, to dredge lightly with flour. 

Entrees, the opening courses in dinners. 

Entremets, second course dishes, dressed. 

Espagnol means a rich sauce made from fowl, game, 
veal, and various kinds of vegetables — with Madeira wine 
and jelly, no water being used. 

Consomme is made from beefsteaks, knuckle of veal, 
chicken boiled in good stock, with many kinds of vege- 
tables, strained and cleared. 

Une Mire-FoLxy ham and bacon in equal quantities, say 
half a pound of each, put into a stew-pan with half a pound 
of butter, and various roots added. A little water and wine 
is then put in. With this foundation the French make 
many stews, such as goose's liver, which is then covered 
with the sauce known as Espagnol. 

Poor Man's Goose. 

Nothing is more savoury or economical than pig's fry, if 
properly cooked. 

First wash it thoroughly, lay on a cloth, then finely slice 
one or two onions into a baking tin ; sprinkle them over 
with dried sage. Cut the liver on a trencher or chopping 
board, with a sharp knife, into neatly shaped pieces ; lay 
them side by side on the onions. Slice the heart in the 
same manner, then the sweetbreads ; lastly scatter with a 
few more onions, pepper well, and cover with a caul. 

If you have not got the latter, use thinly cut slices of 
bacon. Set the tin in a good oven, let it bake for an hour ; 
when done, pour in a gill of boiling water which has been 
slightly salted. 

Send to table in the vessel in which it was cooked. 
Serve with boiled mealy potatoes. This savoury dish costs 
about tenpence, and is sufficient for ten persons. 



SJRLOJN OF BEEF. 97 

Carving, and the Choice of Joints. 

A woman should ahvays be a good carver, and, as a rule, 
it would be well if she performed this office, unless the 
gentleman is also proficient in the art. I have seen a man 
cut a joint, so that it could never again be sent to table, 
whereas, had it been properly carved, it would have looked 
very different. 

The knife must be sharp and hght. But little strength is 
required, if you know exactly where the joints of the birds 
are. 

With a loin see that the butcher chops the bones well at 
the joints. You can then cut a slice from between each 
one, if desired. 

Sirloin of Beef. 

A very good joint for a middle class family is the sirloin. 
About eight pounds will provide for three different meals. 
The thin end can be put into spiced vinegar till required ; 
it will keep good till the following week. Then cut out 
the fillet, that is, the under part of the meat. This makes 
a handsome breakfast, luncheon or dinner dish. 

Cover it in heated butter, and cook quickly before a good 
clear fire, and turn when done, dust it with pepper and 
salt. Cut small notches on the top, pop on a little piece of 
butter, dust with a pinch of finely minced parsley ; dish 
hot, and by the time it is served it should swim in its own 
gravy. No made gravy should be served with this joint. 

The fillet is considered by many to be the epicure's bit. 

There still remains a good roast, which looks well on the 
table. It should be cut by putting the point of the knife 
to the bones, and then carving straight down to the fat oi 
narrow ; on no account should it be cut crosswise. 

If the fillet is not required at once, put it into a little 

B.B. H 



98 HORSERADISH SAUCE. 

vinegar. Wash off the vinegar before cooking, this will 
keep it quite fresh, and will make it eat more tenderly. 
Garnish the meat with scraped horseradish. 

Horseradish Sauce 

Should be served with beef. Scrape the horseradish as 
finely as possible, then throw it into a mixture of vinegar 
sweetened with sugar, and well seasoned with made 
mustard. Then stir in by degrees, half a gill of cream. 
If the latter ingredient be added very slowly, it will not 
turn. Serve the sauce in a glass dish. 

Leg of Mutton. 

In ordering a leg of mutton ask that it be from a wether. 
The butcher may try to give you one dressed like a wether 
by screwing up the fat while the flesh is still warm. You 
should also see that the leg is short and plump, not a long 
thin one ; the meat of the former goes further, and there is 
less bone. 

In all kinds of plucks or inside meat, always buy from a 
good butcher. I mean such things as fry, liver, heart, 
and head. There is little demand for such parts ; they can 
therefore be bought very cheaply, and at a good shop you 
can rely upon it there will be little fear of any disease. 

Among the many things I have told you, Isobel, there is 
still another subject on which I must touch ; that is the 
preparing of proper nourishment and little delicacies for 
invalids. 

You will find through life that good nursing helps the 
doctor immensely. No matter how clever the physician 



COOLING DRINKS. 99 

may be, his efforts are futile, unless the patient is wisely, 
and carefully nursed. 

Unless expressly forbidden by the doctor, an invalid 
should be given a little nourishment at least every hour ; 
as the disease, whatever it may be, uses up the energy and 
strength of the sufferer. Think of the parched lips during 
the night hours, if there be nothing to cool and moisten 
them. 

Some of the recipes may seem to many a little strange, 
but I know they are good, and always feel that I would 
never lose a patient where the recovery depended upon 
good nursing and the maintainance of the strength. For 
instance, in bronchitis, which is often fatal, the system must 
be kept up, for the constant linseed poultices used are most 
weakening. 



COOLING DRINKS. 

Pearl Barley Water. 

Boil a quarter of a pound of pearl barley in a muslin 
bag, in two quarts of water, allowing it to simmer for three 
hours. 

The liquor should then be cleared, and sweetened to taste 
with sugar candy. Flavour with the juice of a lemon, and 
leave to get cold. 

Linseed Tea. 

Into a quart jug put three lemons, cut into slices ; fill the 
vessel with boiling Vv^ater. Into another jug put two table- 
spoonfuls of linseed, with an ounce of Spanish juice (or 
liquorice root), two ounces of sugar candy ; fill this one also 
with boiling water, stir well, and set it to stand for twelve 



loo FEVER DRINK. 



hours. Pass both through a fine hair sieve, mix the Hquors 
together. Half a tumblerful may be drunk at a time. 
This is one of the best drinks for coughs and colds. It 
may be given to babies with croup. 

Fever Drink. 

In cases of fever one of the safest drinks to administer is 
made as follows : — 

Take a dessertspoonful of brewer's barm (not yeast), put 
it into a pint of lukewarm water. Sweeten with the same 
spoonful of Demerara sugar, let it stand in a warm place 
till it ferments ; set it aside till cold, take off the froth, and 
give a drink of this to the patient four or five times a day. 
I have used this in all cases of fever, ulcerated throat, 
bronchitis and inflammation. This is supposed to kill 
the fever. 

Lemon and Honey Syrup. 

Mix together one tablespoonful of sweet salad oil, two of 
lemon juice, and one of honey. Take a teaspoonful when 
the cough is troublesome. This can be safely given to 
babies. 

Strengthening Broth. 

Remove all the fat from two pounds of a neck of mutton, 
take half a chicken, and put both into a stew-pan contain- 
ing a quart of water ; throw in a handful of pearl barley, 
well washed, and two blades of mace. 

When it comes to a boil skim well ; let it simmer for an 
hour, strain off the liquor into a clean stew-pan. Cut the 
white meat, from the breast of the fowl, add it to the broth, 
and again let it simmer till quite tender. Give the patient 
a teacupful of this broth, slightly seasoned with salt, and 
part of the chicken. Serve with dice-shaped pieces of 
l;)read ; with small tufts of parsley. 



CHOPS AND STEAKS. loi 

Throw a tablespoonful of sherry, brandy, or champagne 
into the remainder of the broth. Give it a boil, then pour 
it into a glass mould. When cold, a teaspoonful may be 
placed in the mouth of the patient, if he is too ill to drink 
it. 

It is well to remember that many lives have been saved 
by the administration of nourishing food, even after all 
medicine has failed, and the physician has said he could do 
no more. 

Beef Essence. 

I very much dislike beef tea ; it always seems to me a 
mere watery decoction. The best way is to get a good beef 
steak, and put it in a brown jar without any water, and set 
it in the oven. As the juice or gravy runs from the meat, 
take it away at intervals. A tablespoonful of this liquor, 
slightly salted, is worth a pint of beef tea. 

Drink for a Convalescent Patient. 

Into an earthen jar with a lid put a pound of under- 
meat, half an ounce of isinglass, one small shallot, and a 
tuft of parsley; cover with a pint of hot water. Put into the 
oven, and when the meat has cooked till quite tender, take 
it from the liquor, and stir in half a teaspoonful of Liebig 
Company's essence. Cut a small piece of bread, toast it 
to a nice brown colour, and cut into finger lengths. 

Chops and Steaks. 

Order a chop about six ounces in weight, cut away the 
narrow end, then pepper, and spread it with butter. Put 
it on a gridiron over a clear fire ; turn it several times, so 
that the gravy has no chance of running out. When both 



102 CALF'S FOOT JELLY. 

sides are of a nice golden brown, turn it out on to a hot 
plate. Sprinkle with a little salt ; take it to table at once. 

An egg pudding can follow this to table ; for the making 
of this I know you have the recipe. 

Calf's Foot Jelly. 

Although very many people like jelly, it is well to know 
that there is but very little nourishment in it, unless made 
at home. Here is a recipe for making one kind of jelly. 

Boil a couple of calf's feet in a gallon of water, let it 
simmer till it reduces to about a quart. When quite cold 
skim off every particle of fat; warm it a little, so that 
you may pour it off the top, without touching the sediment. 
Put the jelly into a clean saucepan with half a pint of 
sherry, a wineglassful of brandy, six ounces of lump sugar, 
the juice of four lemons. Then beat up the whites of four 
eggs with a whisk, put them into the saucepan, with the 
shells just crushed in the hand. Stir all well together, let 
it boil for a moment, pour it through a flannel bag, and 
repeat this, until it runs clear. 

Pour the jelly into small glasses, for they keep much 
better than in large moulds, and are also much more tempt- 
ing for an invalid. 

Gelatine Jelly. 

Take an ounce and half of Swinborne's gelatine, pour over 
it a gill of cold water. Let it stand for ten minutes, then add 
a pint of boiling water, and stir until the gelatine has dis- 
solved. When nearly cold, add the whites of four eggs, 
well beaten to a snow, whisk them quickly into the mixture, 
squeeze in the juice from four lemons, and sweeten to taste. 
Put all into a copper pan, set over a slow fire, stir gently 
till it boils, add enough sherry to flavour, and let all boil 



TAPIOCA PUDDING. 103 



very slowly for three minutes. Pour through a jelly bag 
which has first been wrung through boiling water. 

Rhenish Cream. 

Take three quarters of an ounce of Swinborne's isinglass, 
dissolve it in half a gill of boiling water, then add three 
quarters of a pint of white wine, the yolks- of four eggs, the 
juice of a lemon, and the grated rind of half a lemon, 
sweeten to taste with castor sugar. Stir all over a clear fire 
until it boils, then pour into ornamental moulds, in which 
has first been placed a candied cherry. 

Nursery Dishes. 

I think when I have written out one or two dishes that 
can safely be given to children (and in this I do not rely 
only on my own experience, but also on that of my mother, 
who had a large family), I shall have said enough. 

Pudding for the Little Ones. 

Well beat one egg, strain it carefully, and mix with fine 
bread crumbs ; sweeten to taste ; add a gill of milk, and set 
in the oven for fifteen minutes, or till set. 

For older children the under meat may be finely minced, 
mixed with fine bread crumbs. A little of the gravy from 
the meat should be poured upon it, the plate should be 
covered over, and put into the oven till quite hot. 

A small potato may occasionally be mashed and added 
to this. 

Tapioca Pudding. 

For a child of two years old. Well wash a teacupful of 
tapioca, put it into a pie dish (that will hold a pint), then 
four peeled and cored cooking apples. Fill the dish with 



104 TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

water, and leave it in the oven till the tapioca is well cooked. 
Sugar should be served over it. 

And now my time for writing draws to a close. I bid 
farewell with a sincere wish for your success in the carrying 
out of the instructions herein contained, and thanks for the 
cheerful attention you have given to me. 

Trusting that you, when needing it, may meet with as apt 
a scholar as you have been with me, 

Ever faithfully yours, 

Louise E. Smith. 



THE END. 



INDEX. 



] 


PAGE 




PAGB 


Advice as to table . 


I 


Birds. 




— Choosing joints, etc. 97 


,98 


— Chickens' livers larded 


55 


— Keeping of kitchen 




— Fowl and fried ham . 


5 


utensils . 


14 


— Fowl and rice 


73 


Almond icing for cakes . 


61 


— Larks on toast . 


7 


American cream . 


59 


— Larks roasted 


n 


Apple fritters and sa- 




Blancmange, pink . 


70 


voury chops . 


21 


Bloaters. 


4 


Artificial pigeons . 


31 


Boiled chicken in jelly , 


30 


Aspic jelly 


19 


Brains, fricassee of 


. 34 






Brawn for breakfast 


. 78 






Brider . 


95 


Bacon, toast and eggs . 


10 


Broth, strengthening 


ICO 


Barber .... 


95 






Barberries, pickled 


91 


Cakes, almond icing foi 


- 61 


Barley water for invalids 


47 


— Home made 


28 


Beef fillet 


5 


— Orange icing for. 


. 61 


— Essence .. 


lOI 


— Sally Lunn . 


■ 57 


—Palate with poached 




— Sausage 


. 85 


pocrs 


46 


— Savoury 


• 25 


■ — Sirloin 


97 


— Sunbury 


• 25 


— Steak pie . 


38 


— Sydney 


. 46 


Birds .... 


95 


Calf s head fricassee 


9 


— Artificial pigeons 


31 


— Foot jelly . 


. 102 


— Chicken and ham ris- 




Carp 


. 88 


soles 


29 


— k la petite chambre 


. 89 


— Chicken and ham 




Carving, and the choice 




sandwiches 


29 


ofjoints . 


. 97 



105 



io6 



INDEX. 





PAGE 




Cheese custard 


i8 


Cream, Rhenish 


— Sandwiches 


51 


Croquettes of mutton 


Cherries, candied Mu- 




— Potato 


rella, for garnish 


81 


Croutes .... 


Chevrette 


95 


Cucumber, home pickled 


Chicken and ham sand- 




— Savoury 


wiches 


29 


Curry powder 


— and ham rissoles 


44 


Custard, cheese 


— Boiled in jelly 


30 


— for invalid's luncheon . 


— Livers larded 


S^ 


Cutlets, blue shark 


— Mayonnaise 


35 


— Hare .... 


— Soup with rolls of fil- 




— Herring and boiled 


letted soles 


11 


parcTc 


Chocolate pie with apri- 




— Ox cheek with toma- 


cots. 


79 


toes. 


Chops, savoury and apple 




— Rabbit and green peas 


fritters 


26 


— Veal and macaroni 


— and steaks for invalids 


lor 




— Pork and Tasmanian 




Drink for convalescent 


fritters 


21 


patient . 


Codfish stuffed, with 






brown gravy . 


41 


Eggs, toast and bacon . 


— Head and shoulders 




— and port wine 


with cockles . 


1?> 


— Boiled and herring cut- 


— Sounds (broiled) 


60 


lets .... 


— Sounds and ^gg sauce 


60 


— Poached and crayfish . 


Coffee making 







— Poached with savoury 


Cold fowl 


86 


sauce 


— meat .... 


84 


— Pudding 


Colopped sweetbreads . 


52 


— Sauce and cod's sounds 


Cones, Scotch 


16 


— Savoury 


Consomme 


96 


— with beef palates 


Coulises, gravies and 




Entres .... 


soups 


S5 


Entremets 


Crab, hot 


12 


Espagnol 


Crayfish and poached 




Espagnol, le grand 


eggs 


Zl 




Cream, American . 


59 


Fever drink . 



PAGE 

35 

51 
62 

91 
94 
92 

18 

58 
56 
40 

12 

42 

23 
63 



101 

10 
II 

12 

Zl 

22 
48 
5o 

57 
46 
96 
96 
96 

55 
100 



INDEX. 



107 



Fish 

— Bloaters 

— Carp . 

— Carp ^ la petite 

chambre . 
— Crimped skate 
—Dried haddock 
— Dried haddock with 

pigs' kidneys 
— Filletted haddock 

— Haddock . 
— Herring cutlets and 

boiled eggs 
— Hot crab 
— in jelly 
— Pickled salmon 
— Plate of gudgeon 
— Sardines 
— Savoury soles 
— Scallopped oysters 
— Scallops 

— Shrimp sandwiches 
— Soused, or pickled sal 

mon 
— Sprats 
—Stuffed codfish with 

brown gravy 
— Sturgeon 
— Trout . 
1^'illet of beef . 
Fowl, and rice 
— Cold . 
—Fricassee . 
— Ham and . 
Forcemeat for veal 

— Fish . 

— for savoury soles 
— Turkeys 



PAGE 

86 

4 
88 



89 
88 

8 

8 

71 

4 

12 
12 

2 

6 

70 

4 
60 

48 

88 

51 

87 
88 

41 

87 
89 

86 

14 

5 

44 

44 
60 

44 



Fricassee of brains 
— of calf's head 
— of fowl 
Fried ham 
Fritters, shrimp 

Garfish or Grayling fil 

letted 
Gelatine jelly . 
Glace 

Goose, poor man's , 
Grapes in jelly 
Gravy for invalid . 
— Coulises and soups 
Grilled bloaters 
— Mutton with poachc( 

esters 
— Pigeons 
Gudgeon, plate of . 

Haddock 

— and pigs' kidneys 

— Dried. 

—Filletted 

Ham and chicken rissoles 

— and fowl 

— and mushrooms . 

— Baked 

Hare cutlets . 

Hasty herrings on toast 

Hints for the housewife 

Home-made ketchup 

— Pickled cucumber 

— White wine for cook 

Horseradish sauce. 



PAGE 

34 
9 

5 
21 



36 
102 

95 
96 
69 
58 
85 
4 



8 

39 

70 

4 
8 

8 
71 

44 

5 
6 

17 
40 

62 

83 
90 

91 

92 
98 



Invalid's breakfast dish . 12 



loS 



INDEX. 



PAGE 

Invalid's barley water . 47 

— Beef essence . . loi 

— Calfs foot jelly . . 102 

—Chops and steaks . loi 

— Custard ... 58 
— Drink for convalescent 

patient . . .101 

—Egg pudding . . 48 

— Fever drink . . 100 

— Gelatine jelly . . 102 

— Gravy. ... 58 

— Lemon and honey 

syrup . . . 100 

— Linseed tea ... 99 

— Nourishment . 98, 99 

— Pearl barley water . 99 

— Rhenish cream . , 103 

— Strengthening broth . 100 

— Strong soup . . 11 

Jam squares . . .11 
Jelly, aspic ... 19 
— Boiled chicken in . 30 
— Calfs foot . . .102 
— Fish in . . . 2, 19 
— Gelatine . . . 102 
— Grapes in . . -69 
— Knuckle of veal in . 3 
— Mould of ox cheek . 43 

— Olives in . . .68 
— Ox tail in . . .17 
— Pig's feet in . .13 
— Pigeons in . . .32 
— Pine apple ... 93 
— Rabbit and olive 

mould . . .23 
— Ribboned ... 80 
— Stuffed rabbits in . 33 



Jelly trifle 


PAGE 
81 


Kavier . 


. 94 


Kidneys and oysters 


57 


—Pigs' . 


8 


— Sheep's 


3 


— Veal and mushrooms 


Zl 


— with kidnapped 




oysters 


' 79 


Larks on toast 


7 


— Roasted 


. 77 


Lemons doubed 


, 16 


— and honey syrup. 


. 100 


Linseed tea . 


• 99 


Livers, chickens' larded . 


55 


Macaroni boiled . 


. 16 


— and veal cutlets . 


. 63 


Mackerel and omelettes 


9 


Masquer 


95 


May Queen tarts . 


. 61 


Mayonnaise . 


. 77 


— Chicken 


' 35 


— Salmon 


. 59 


— with shrimps 


. 63 


Mushrooms and ham 


6 


— and veal kidney 


37 


— Baked. 


. 69 


— Hints on pickling 


91 


Meat, cold 


84 


— Minced 


84 


Mould, rabbit 


23 


— Savoury 


65 


Mutton, leg of, as ham . 


25 


— Croquettes . 


35 


— Grilled with poached 




eggs. 


8 


— Leg of . . . 


98 



INDEX. 



109 



PAGE 

Mutton steak sausages . 43 



Nursery dishes . . 103 

Olives in jelly . . . ^ 68 

— Sandwiches . . 94 

Omelettes ... 9 

Omelette and mackerel . 9 

Onions with shrimps . 21 

Orange icing for cakes . 61 

Oysters scalloped . . 48 
■ — Kidnapped with 

kidneys ... 79 
Ox cheek cutlets with 

tomatoes. . . 42 

—Jelly .... 43 

Paillasse • • • 95 

Palates, novel dish of . 56 

Partridge, Paris . . 67 

Paste, good, rich . . 69 

Pate froid de veau . . 47 

Pearl barley water . . 99 

Peas and rabbit cutlets . 23 

Pie, Staffordshire . . 75 

—Beefsteak ... 38 

— Chocolate with apricots 79 
—Rhubarb . . .71 

— Vegetarian ... 76 

Pickled, home, cucumber 91 
— Barberries . . .91 
Pickling, hints on mush- 
room . . .91 

Pigeons, grilled . . 39 

— with forcemeat . . 29 

Pig's feet in jelly . . 13 

Pine apple water ice . 53 

—Jelly .... 93 

—Truffle ... 92 



Plate of gudgeon . 

Poix une mire 

Poor man's goose . 

Pork chops 

— Boned spare ribs of, 

stuffed 
Potato croquettes . 
— Mashed and collopped 

sweetbreads 
Poulet d la Frangaise 
Powder, curry 
Princely pancakes . 
Pudding for the little 

ones 
Puits 



Quails, dish of foreign 



Rabbit cutlets with green 

peas 
—Mould 
— Stuffed in jelly 
Rhenish cream 
Rhubarb pie . 

Salad, sardine 

Sally Lunn 

Salmon, pickled 

— Mayonnaise 

— Soused or pickled 

Sandwiches, cheese 

— Chicken and ham 

— Savoury 

— Shrimp 

Sausages, mutton steak 

— Cakes . 

— Rolls . 

Savouries 

— Cucumber . 



PAGE 
70 
96 
96 
26 



71 
51 

52 

74 
92 

64 

103 
95 

80 



23 

23 

33 
103 

71 

4 

57 

6 

59 
87 

51 
29 

50 

51 

43 

85 

45 

93 

94 



no 


INDEX, 






PAGE 




PAGE 


Savouries, Kavier . 


. 94 


Sweetbreads, collopped 


— Olive sandwiches 


• 94 


and mashed potatoes 52 


Savoury bird's nest 


. 54 


Sweetbread pears 


. 24 


— Cakes . 


. 25 


— Roasted 


. 68 


— Chops and apple frit 








ters 


21 


Tapioca pudding . 


. 103 


—Mould 


. 65 


Tart novelette 


. 49 


— of filberts . 


. 81 


— May Queen 


. 61 


— Sandwiches 


50 


Toast, bacon and eggs 


10 


— Sauce with poachec 


J 


— Hasty herrings on 


. 62 


eggs 
— Soles . . . 


'^O 


— Larks on 


7 


60 


Tomatoes on toast . 


4 


Scallops . 


. 88 


— Baskets 


. 62 


Scalloped oysters . 


. 48 


— Ox cheek cutlets with 


• 42 


Scotch cones . 


16 


— Sauce 


. 74 


Shortcakes, Sydney 


46 


Trifle jelly 


. 81 


Shrimps and mayonnaise 


: 63 


— Simple 


. 66 


— Fritters 


20 


Trout 


. 89 


— Onions with 


21 


Turkey, tasty . 


> 74 


— Sandwiches 


51 


— Stuffing for . 


. 44 


Singer . 


. 96 


Vanilla ice creams . 


■ 52 


Sirloin of beef 


. 97 


Veal, breast of, forced 




Skate, crimped 


88 


and larded 


82 


Soup, clear white . 


67 


— Cutlets and macaroni 


63 


— Chicken, with rolls of 




— Forcemeat . 


44 


filleted sole 


n 


— Kidney and mush- 




— Gravies and coulises . 


85 


rooms 


37 


— Strong 


II 


— Knuckle of, in jelly . 




— White, with oysters . 


72 


—Pate froid de 


47 


Sprats . . . . 


%z 


Vegetarian pie 


76 


Staffordshire pie . 


75 






Sturgeon 


s? 


Wine, home made, white 


J 


Sundries and snacks 


7 


for cooking 


92 



A SELECTION FROM 



.^-H 



LIST OF 

STANDARD REFERENCE VOLUMES, 

POPULAR USEFUL BOOKS 

AND 

ILLUSTRATED GIFT BOOKS. 



THE NEW EDITION OF 

T//E BEST COOKERY BOOK IN THE WORLD. 

(Publislied November, 1888). 

Enlarged, Re-composed, Revised, Improved. Witli New Menus, 

Kew Modes, New Recipes, New Tables, New Engravings, 

Nev/ Coloured Plates. 



Price 

7/6 



538th Thousand, strongly bound, half roan, price ~.«. Gd. ; cloth gilt, 

bevelled boards, j^ilt edges, Ss. 6(7.; half-calf, 10s, Od, ; 

elegant full tree calf, ISs. 

JVIRS. BEETON'S 

BOOK OF 

j-IOUSEHOLD jVIANAGEMENT. 

Entirely New and greatly Enlarged and Improved Edition, 

INCLUDING 

333 additional pages of New Recipes and Ney/ Engravings, or in all 

about 1.700 pages, with Thousands of Recipes and Instructions, 

Hundi'eds of Engravings and New Coloured Cookery Plates. 

With Quantities, Time, Costs, and Seasons, Directions for Carving 
and Trussing, Management of Children, Arrangement and Economy of 
the Kitchen, Duties of Servants, the Doctor, Legal Memoranda, and 
B.Us of Fare and Menus of all kinds and for all Seasons. 

In fhi'i- IVew Kdition the size of the pages has been increafied, 
and 36i} piufes added, so that the irofh note ertntaius nearly 
one half as much matter again as the old edition. 

OPINIONS OF THE PRESS ON THE NEW EDITION. 

" Perfect as it was before, it is much more so now."— Bristol Time'^. 

"Should be one of the wedding presents of every bride." — 1 he 
Christian World. 

" Hardly anything belonging to domestic life is wanting to this ency 
clopaedic volume.' — Manchester Examiner. 

*** As a Wedding- Gift, Birthday Bonk, or Preseiitation Volume at 
any ieriid of the year, Mrs. Beeton s " Household Management " is en- 
titled to the very first place. 1 he book will last a lijetitne^^and save 
Tuoney every day. 



WARD. LOCK, BOWDEN & CO. 



STANDARD COOKERY & HOUSEKEEPING BOOKS. 



Price 

3/6 



2/6 



7/6 



7/6 



MRS. BEETON'S EVERY-DAY COOKERY AND HOUSE- 
KEEPING BOOK. Re-written and Revised throughout, greatly 
Enlarged and Improved ; containing 570 Pages, 1,800 Recipes, in- 
cluding Instructions for Foreign and V^egetarian Cookery, New French 
and English Menus for every Month in the Year, New Menus for 
Breakfast, Luncheon, Tea, Supper and Picnics, New Tables of House- 
keeping Accounts and Household Expenditure, New Coloured Plates 
and 600 Engravings. Large crown 8vo, cloth gilt, 5*. 6d. 

Mrs. BEETOji's Every-Day Cookery has the reputation of being 
the best Cookery Book issued at its price , and the Publishers trust tJiat in 
its enlarged and improved Jorvi it may be more acceptable than ever in 
English-speaking households. Infinite pains have been taken in the pre- 
paration of this New Edition. Every line has been recomposed, and 
7 hrie Hitndred Pages added, so that the work will, it is hoped, deserve 
the p7-niie bcstcwta up07i tt cf being the Bts' and Cheapest, as zvell as the 
tnost CoDiplete Matitial on Cookery and Housekeeping ever offered at 
anything like the price. 

MRS. BEETON'S ALL ABOUT COOKERY. Enlarged, 

Revised,, and thorouehly brought up to date, containing 2,000 Recipes 
for every branch of Cookery, New Menus for all meals for all months 
in the year Valuable Coloured Plates and £00 Illustrations. 
Crown 8vo, 450 Pages, cloth gilt, 2s. 6d. 

The h)iprovements and Additions made ift the New Edition may be 
described under the following heads: — The thorough Revision of 
all the Recipes contained in the last Edition — New Recipes 
for every branch of Cookery — The newest modes of serving 
Dinners and other meals shown .n the New Menus— Floral and 
other pretty Designs for Menu Cards — Table Decorations for all 
Seasons, being practical suggestions for the Beauty of the Home 
— The new and beautifully executed Coloured Plates, new Full- 
page and other Illustrations. 

A COMPANION VOLUME TO ''MRS. BEETON'S BOOK OF 
HO USE HOLD MA NA GMENT. " 

MRS. BEETON'S HOUSEWIFE'S TREASURY OF 

DOMESTIC INFORMATION. With numerous lull-page Co- 
loured and other Plates, and about 600 Illustrations in tlie Text. 
Crown 8vo, halt-roan, 7s. 6d. ; half -calf, lOs. dd. 

Among the subjects treated of will be found: — How to Build, Buy, 
Rent, and Furnish a House.— Taste in the House. — Economical 
Housekeeping. — Management ol Children. — Home Needlework, 
Dressmaking and Millinery. — Fancy and Art Needlework. — The 
Toilet.— Modern Etiquette. — Employment of Leisure Hours. 

" In the one thousand and fifty-six pages in this marvellous ' Home 
Book ' there is not one -worthless or unnecessary item, not one 
article we would ever wish to forget." — The Court Journal. 

SYLVIA'S FAMILY MANAGEMENT. A Book of Thrift 
and Cottage Economy. With numerous Coloured and other Plates 
and 350 Illustrations In the Text. Medium 8vo, cloth gilt, bevelled 
boards, 7*. fid. 

The subjects treated of include: Choice of a Home— Furnishing 
— Cookery and Housekeeping — Domestic Hygiene — Dress and 
Clothing— Children — Household Pets and Amusements, &c. &c. 

From the SATURDAY HEVIEW : " OThe most important 

publication, so far as variety of subjects is concerned, xvhich tve have 
yet seen for the benefit of families of small means,*' 



WARD, LOCK, BOWDEN & CO., 



STANDARD COOKEKY & HOUbEKEEPlNQ BOOKS. 



Price 

2/6 



2/6 



2/6 



v- 

1/6 
1/- 



Qd. 
6d, 

6d 

6d. 
3d. 

Id, 



THE COOKERY INSTRUCTOR. By Edith A. Barnett, 

Examiner to the National Training School for Cookery, &c. Illus- 
trated. The reasons for Recipes, which are almost entirely omitted in 
all Modern Cookery Books, are here clearly given. Crown 8vo, cloth 
gilt, 2s. 6d, ; Cheap Edition, cloth limp, la. 

'* The Cookery Instructor, we are sure, will be a boon to thousands. 
It is simple, concise, intelligible and accurate." — Sheffield Telegraph. 

GOOD PLAIN COOKERY. By Mary Hooper, Author of 

"Little Dinners," "Every Day Meals," &c. This work, by an 
acknowledged Mistress of the Cuisine, is specially devoted to what is 
generally known as Plain Cookery. Crown 8vo, cloth giit, 28, dd. f 
Cheap Edition, cloth limp, Is. 

THE ART OF PASTRY-MAKING: French and English; 

including Cakes, Sweetmeats and Fancy Biscuits. By l-MiLb, 

Herisse, late Chief Pastrycook- Confectioner. Willi 40 Illlib;!a- 

tions. Crown 8vo, linen boards, bevelled, 2s. Hd. 

Tke want of a cheap and reliable Book of Recipes for making Pastry 
has lon^ been seriously felt by Cooks, t astrycooks and Housewives. 'J ^le 
author h(is endeavoured to present, in a style so plain and fuinive as to be 
perfectly coviprehensible to anyone, the 7tey> est and best recipes, and those 
only of really practical tolue. E^itry lecipe .n the Lock has been 
thoroughlv tested and /nquently used by the author aurin^ twtnty years' 
practice in London and Put is. 

MRS. BEETON'S COOKERY BOOK. New and Enlarged 

Edition, containing upwards of 1,000 Recipes, 3£0 Engravings, aid 
Four Coloured Plates. Marketing, Vegetarian Cookery, Menus, Table 
Arrangements, Trussmg, Carving, &c., &c. with Quantities, Time, 
Cost and Seasons. Crown 8vo, cloth. Is, ; cloth gilt, Is, (id, 

THE PEOPLE'S HOUSEKEEPER. A Complete Guide to 

Comfort, Economy and Mealth. Comprising Cookery, Household 
Economy, the Family Health, Furnishing, Housework, Clothes, Mar- 
keting, Food, &c. &c. Post 8vo, cloth, Is, 

THE ECONOMICAL COOKERY BOOK, for Housewives, 

Cooks, and Maids-of-all-Work; with Advice to Mistress and Servant. 
By Mrs. Warren. New Edition, with additional pages and numerous 
Illustrations. Post 8vo, limp cloth, Od, 

THE SIXPENNY PRACTICAL COOKERY AND ECONO- 

MICAL RECIPES. Comprising Marketing, Relishes, Boiled Dishes, 
Vegetables, Soups, Side Dishes, Salads. Slews, Fish, Joints, Saucts, 
Cheap Dishes, Invalid Cookery, &c. dd, 

MRS. BEETON'S SIXPENNY COOKERY BOOK for the 

people and Housekeeper's Guide to Comfort, Economy and Health. 
Crown 8vo, linen covers, 6d, 

MRS. BEETON'S COTTAGE COOKERY BOOK. Contain- 

ing Simple Lessons in Cookerv and Economical Home Management. 
A Guide to Economy in the Kitchen, and a valuable Handbook for 
Young Housewives. Fcap. 8vo, cloth limp, 6d. ; paper covers, 3d, 

BEETON'S PENNY COOKERY BOOK. Containing more 
than 200 Recipes and Instructions. Price Id, ; post free, l\d. 



London, New York, Melbourne and Sydney. 



B.B. 



EDUCATIONAL AND USEFUL WORKS. 



Price 

7/6 



6/- 



51- 

or 

3/6 



5/- 



THE BEST IVOR K FOR SELF-EDUCATORS. 
THE UNIVERSAL INSTRUCTOR ; or, Self-Culture for All. 

A Complete CyclopEedia of Learning and Self-Education ; meeting 
the Requirements of all Classes of Students, and forming a Perfect 
System of Intellectual Culture. With 2,000 Illustrations. In Three 
Vols., royal 8vo, each 7s. 6d. ; half-calf or half-morocco, 12s» 
'* The ivorh is excellent, and it is to be hoped it may meet 
ivitfi the 2>o2iHlnrity it deserves," — Athenaeum. 

THE DOCTOR AT HOME, AND NURSE'S GUIDE BOOK: 

A Guide to the Structure and Composition of the Human Body ; the 
Nature, Causes and Treatment of Disease ; its Maintenance in Health 
and Strength, and the Prolongation of f.ife ; with special Directions 
respecting the various Adments and Disorders of Childhood and 
Womanhood. Edited by George Black, M.B. Edin.. Author of 
" First Aid in Accident and Sudden Illness," &c. With Hundreds of 
Illustrations. Demy 8vo, cloth, 900 pages, 6s. 

'■ Doctors will be the first to testify to the value of such a work as 
this."— City Press. 

"THE PRACTICAL MECHANIC SERIES" OF INDUS- 

TRIAL HANDBOOKS. Profusely Illustrated. Demy 8vo, strongly 
bound in cloth, price Us. 6d. or 5s. each, 

1 The Stonemason and the Bricklayer. With Eleven Folding 

Plates and 224 Illustrations in the Text. 5s. 

2 The Domestic House Planner and the Sanitary Architect. 

With Slxieen Folding Plates and Sixty Illustrations in tne 
Text. 5s. 

3 The General Machinist. With Four Folding Plates and Seventy- 

five Illustrations in the Text. 5s. 

4 The Building and Machine Draughtsman. With Eighteen 

Folding Plates and 155 Illustrations in the Text, 5s. 

5 The Carpenter and Joiner. Wuh Twenty-fivo Folding Plates 

and 200 Illustrations in the Text. 5s. 

6 The Ornamental Draughtsman; Including Form and Colour, 

With Nineteen Folding Plates and Illusts. in the Text. 3s.(id. 

7 The Iron and Steel Maker. With Five Folding Plates and Tnirty- 

two Illustrations in ihs Text. 5s. 

8 The Cabinet Maker. With Ten Foiling Plates and Sixty-Two 

Illustrations in the Text. 3s. ffd. 

9 The Geometrical Draughtsman. With Seven Folding Plates and 

126 Illustrations in the Text. .3s. (id. 
lo The Students Introduction to Mechanics. With 1£0 Illustra- 
tions. 5s. 

" The information has been supplied by men who are peculiarly well 
qualified to speak on the subject ; and if our mechanics and artisans could 
be induced to master books of this kind, their interest in their daily work 
would be quickened, and, since skilled labour can always command the 
Market, their advancement in life would be secured." — The Leeds 

^IttRCURY. 

A DICTIONARY OF THE TECHNICAL AND TRADE 

TERMS of Architectural Design and Building Construction. Being 
Practical Descriptions, with Technical Details, of the Different Depart- 
ments connected with the various Subjects ; with derivations of, and 
French and German equivalents or synonyms for the various Terms, 

With Explanatory Diagrams. Demy Svo, cloth, 5s. 

" The thoroughly explanatory character of the work gives it a h'gh 
value, both as a book of reference, and as a practical guide for the young 
architect and builder. Technicality is shown to be no bar to a perfectly 
clear description of every term.' — Daily Chronicle. 



WARD, LOCK, BOWDEN & CO.. 



HIGH-CLASS BOOKS OF REFERENCE. 



Pi ice 

30/- 
36/- 

42/- 



18/- 



7/6 



7/6 



7/6 



A Complete Encyclopaedia for Thirty Shillings. 

In Four Vols., royal 8vo, cloth, SO.v. ; strongly bound, half-Persian, 428. ; 

half-kUbsia, tiOs. ; hall-calf, HHs. ; in Six Vols., cloth, 36s. ; 

hall-calf, 54s. 

BEETON'S ILLUSTRATED ENCYCLOP/EDIA OF UNI- 
VERSAL INFORMATION. Comprising Geography, History, 
Biography, Chronology, Art, Science, Litfrature, Religion 
AND Philosophy, and containing 4,000 Pages, 50,000 Articles, and 
Hundreds of Engravings and Coloured Maps. 

" We know of no book which in such small compass gives so 
tnuch information.''— The Scotsman. 

** A perfect mine of information."— Leeds Mercury. 



Brought down to the Autumn of 1892. 
HAYDN'S DICTIONARY OF DATES. Relating to all 
Ages and Nations ; for Universal Reference. Containing about 12,000 
distinct Articles, and 130,000 Dates and Facts. Twentieth 
Edition, Enlarged, Corrected and Revised by Benjamin Vincent, 
Librarian of the Royal Institution of Great Britain. Medium 8vo, 
cloth, price 18s. ; half-calf, 84s. ; full or tree-calf. 31s. Gd. 

THE TIMES on the iSth Edition : — " We see no reason to reverse 
or quahfy the judgment we expressed upon a former ef^ition, that the 
'Dictionary of Dates is the most Universal Book of Reference in 
a moderate compass that we know of in the English Lan- 
guage." 



VINCENT'S DICTIONARY OF BIOGRAPHY, Past and 

Present. Containing the Chief Events in the Lives of Eminent Persons 
of all Ages and Nations. By Benjamin Vincent, Librarian of the Royal 
Institution of Great Britain, and Editor of "Haydn's Dictionary of 
Dates." In One Vol., medium 8vo, cloth, 7s. 6d. ; half-calf, 18s. ; full 
or tree-calf, 18s. 

"It has the merit of condensing into the smallest possible compass the 
leading events in the career of every man and ivoman of 
eminence. . . . It is very carefully edited, and must evidently be 
the result of constant industry, combined with good judgment and taste." — 
The Times. 

HAYDN'S DICTIONARY OF DOMESTIC MEDICINE. By 

the late Edwin Lankester, M.D., F.R.S., assisted by Distinguished 
Physicians and Surgeons. With an Appendix on Sick Nursing and 
Mothers' Management. With full pages of Engravings. In One 
Vol., medium 8vo, cloth gilt, 7s. Gd. ; hall-calf, 18s. 

*' The best work of its kind." — Medical Prfss and Circular 
•* The fullest and most reliable work of its kitid." — Liver- 
pool Albion. 

HAYDN'S BIBLE DICTIONARY. For the use of all Readers 

and Students of the Old and New Testaments, and of the Apocrypha. 
Edited by the late Rev. Charles Boutell, M.A. With many 
pages of Engravings, separately printed on tinted paper. In One 
Vol., medium 8vo, cloth gilt, 7s, Gd. ; half-calf, 18s. 

" 3Iarked bif great care and accuracy, clearness com- 
bined with brevity, and, a vast amount of information which 
will delight and benefit readers." — Thk Watchman. 



London, New York, Melbourne and Sydney. 



HIGH-CLASS BOOKS OF REFERENCE. 



^nce 



10/6 



7/6 



7/6 

7/6 

7/6 

7/6 



7/6 

per Vol. 



HOUSEHOLD MEDICINE: A Guide to Good Health, Lom^ 

Life, and the Proper Treatment of all Diseases and Ailments. Edited 
by George Black, M.B. Edin. Accurately Illustrated with 450 
Engravings. Royal 8vo, cloth gilt, price 10s. 6d. ; half-calf, 16s. 
"Considerable is the care which Dr. Black has bestowed upon his work 
on Household Medicine. He has gone carefully and ably into all the sub- 
jects that can be included in such a volume. . . . The tvork is worthy 
of study and attention, and likely to produce real good.'' — 
Athenaeum. 

THE BOOK FOR AMATEURS IN CARPENTRY, &>€. 
EVERY MAN HIS OWN MECHANIC. Being a Complete 
Guide for Amateurs in Household Carpentry and Joinery, Orna- 
mental AND Constructional Carpentry and Joinery, and 
Household Building, Art and Practice. New, Revised and 
Enlarged Edition, with about 900 Illustrations of Tools, Pro- 
cesses. Buildings, &C. Demy 8vo, cloth gilt, price 7s. 6d. ; half- 
calf, 12s. 

" There is a fund of solid information of every kind in the work before 
us, which entitles it to the proud distinction of being o complete * vade- 
mecum' of the subjects upon which it treats."— Thk Daily 
Telegraph. 

BEETON'S DICTIONARY OF THE PHYSICAL SCI- 

ENCES ; Including Astronomy, Botany, Chemistry, Geology, Elec- 
tricity, Sound, Light. Heat, &c. With explanatory Engravings. 
Royal 8vo, cloth gilt, 7s. 6d. ; half-calf, 12s. 

BEETON'S DICTIONARY OF RELIGION, PHILOSOPHY, 

POLITICS, AND LAW. With explanatory Woodcuts. Royal 
8vo, cloth gilt, 7s. 6d. ; half-calf, 12s. 

BEETON'S DICTIONARY OF INDUSTRIES AND COM- 

MERCE; Accounts, Agriculture, Building, Banking, Eneineering, 
Mechanism, Mining, Manufactures, Seamanship and Shipping, Steam 
Fnpines, and many other Useful Articles. With 300 Explanatory 
Woodcuts. Royal 8vo, cloth gilt. 7s. Hd. 

BEETON S DICTIONARY OF LITERATURE, FINEARTS 

AND AMUSEMENTS ; Architecture, Books, Heraldry, Journalism, 
Music, Painting, Sculptuie, and manv other Subjects pertaining to 
Culture and general Information. With Explanatory WoodCUtS. 
Royal Svo, cloth gilt, price 7s. 6d. 

The care and labour bestozved on these works have rendered them, com- 
plete and trustworthy Encyclopaedias on the subjects which they include. 
The latest discoveries, ituprovements, and changes have been noticed and 
duly chronicled in the various articles, and no pains have been spared to 
attain at once completeness, clearness, and accuracy in each book, 

THE INDUSTRIAL SELF-INSTRUCTOR in the leading 
branches of Technical Science and Industrial Arts and Pro- 
cesses. With Coloured PJates, and many Hundreds of Working 
Drawings, Designs, and Diagrams. In Pive Vols., demy 410, cloth 
gilt, 7s. 6d. each. 

This work, devoted to the spread of Technical Education, appeals to 
all who take an interest in Man7ifactures and Ccnstruction, n:td in the 
progress and operation of practical Science, Asa useful and interesting 
book for youths and those engaged in self education, it cannot fail toreco*n- 
ntend itself, while it will be found a book of useful refer erne to the general 
reader. . 

"Promises to be one of the most useful books ever tssued 
from the British press." — Freeman's Journal. 



WARD, LOCK, BOWDEN & CO., 



HELP FOR THOSE WHO HELP THEMSELVES. 



Price 

6/- 



7/6 
7/G 

7/G 

7/6 

7/6 

7/6 
7/6 
7/6 
7/6 



15/- 
18/- 
21/- 

15/- 
18/- 
21/- 



Being the Seventh Volume 
Wiih Folding Supplements, 



THE THIRD VOLUME OF THE SECOND SERIES OF 
AMATEUR WORK, ILLUSTRATED. A Cydopcedia of 
Constructive and Decorative Art and Manual Laboi;r. With Folding 
Supplements and Hundreds of Engravings in the Text. Crown 4to, 
clotn gilt, Us, 

THE SECOND VOLUME OF THE SECOND SERIES OF 
AMATEUR WORK, ILLUSTRATED. With Folding 
Supplements and Hundreds of Engravings. Cr. 410, cl. gilt, Is. Gil. 

MECHANICAL PASTIMES: Volume L of the Second Series 
of "Amateur Work, Illustrated." With Folding Supplements 
and Hundreds of Engravings. Crown 4to, cloth gilt, 7*. iid. 

THE AMATEUR MECHANIC. 

of "Amateur Work, Illustratrd." 
and about 1,000 Engravings. 7*. iid. 

THE AMATEURS STOREHOUSE. Being the Sixth 
Volume of "Amateur Work, Illustrated," Wiin Folding Sup- 
plements and about 1,000 Engravings, 7*. Gd. 

THE HOME WORKMAN. Being the Fifth Volume ol 
"Amateur W.)kk, Illustrated." With Folding Supplements 
and about l.COl) Engravings. 7». Gd. 

PRACTICAL MECHANICS. Being the Fourth Volume of 
'• Amateur Work, Illustrated." With Folding Supplements and 
about 1,000 Engravings. 7s. Gd. 

THE WORKSHOP AT HOME. Being the Third Volume of 
"Amateur Work, Illustrated." With Folding Supplements, 
and about 1,000 Engravings. 7*. Gd. 

MECHANICS MADE EASY. Being the Second Volume o I 
"Amateur Work, Illustrated." With Folding Supplements, 
and about 1,000 Engravings in the Text. 7*. Gd. 

AMATEUR WORK, ILLUSTRATED. Vol. I. With Folding 
Supplements and about 1,000 Engravings. 7*. Gd. 
Among the subjects treated of in these Volumes will it found: — 
Lathe Making — Electro Plating — Modelling in Clay— Organ 
Building — Clock Making— Photography — Boat Building — Book- 
binding — Gas Fitting — Tools and Furniture— Veneering — French 
Polishing — Wood Carving— Plaster Casting — Fret-Work — Decora- 
tion — Working Drawings — House Painting and Papering — Violin 
Making— Electric Bells — Brass Casting — Wood Jointing— Brazing 
and Soldering — Boot Mending and Making — China Painting — 
House Painting — House Papering — Gilding — Picture Frame Mak- 
ing—Printing — Pianoforte Tuning — Forge Work — Bird Stuffing 
and Preserving, &c. &c., with 1 housands of Useful Hints. 

BEETON'S DICTIONARY OF UNIVERSAL INFORMA 

TION: Science, Art, Literature, Religion and Philosophy. 
Comprising about 2,000 pages, 4,000 columns, 25,000 complete 
Articles. In Two Vols., royal 8vo, with many Illustrations, I5s. ; 
half- Persian, 21s. ; in One Vol., half-roan, without Illustrations, ISs. 
** A most valuable work of reference." — The Times, 

BEETON'S DICTIONARY OF UNIVERSAL INFORMA 
TION, relating to Geography, History, Biography, &c. With Maps 
In Two Vols., royal 8vo, cloth, with many Illustrations, 15s.; ha.t- 
Ptrsian, 21s. ; in One Vol., half-roan, without Illustrations, ISs. 
'* A. combination of accuracy, comjjactnesSf corupvH- 

hensiveness and cheapness." — Glasgow Herald. 



London, New York, Melbourne and Sydney. 



BOSTON PUBLIC LIBRARY 



II I I I I II I III till ''" '""' >> III! """■ 

3 9999 05987 656 3 



Boston Public Library 
Central Library, Copley Square 

Division of 
Reference and Research Services 



The Date Due Card in the pocket indi- 
cates the date on or before which this 
book should be returned to the Library. 

Please do not remove cards from this 
pocket. 



.';A 



^i. 






1116 



mm 



JT' 



