CIHM 
Microfiche 
Series 
(Monographs) 



ICMH 

Collection de 
microfiches 
(monographies) 




I 



Canadian Institute for Historical Microroproductions / Institut canadien d» microreproductions historiques 





Technical and Bibliographic Notes / Notes techniques et bibliographiques 



The Insiiiute has attempted to obtain the best oiigmal 
copy available for filming. Features of this copy which 
may be bibliographically unique, which may alter any of 
the images in the reproduction, or which may 
significantly change the usual method of filming are 
checked below. 



/ 



Coloured covers / 
Couverture de couleur 



Covers damaged / 
Couverture endommag6e 

□ Covers restored and/or laminated / 
Couverture restaur^e et/ou pellicul^e 

I Cover title missing / Le titre de couverture manque 

I I Coloured maps / Cartes g6ographiques en couleur 



D 



D 
D 

D 



D 



D 



Coloured ink (i.e. other than blue or black) / 
Encre de couleur (i.e. autre que bleue ou noire) 



□ Coloured plates and/or illustrations / 
Pi£ 



Planches et/ou illustrations en couleur 

Bound with other material / 
Reli6 avec d'autres documents 

Only edition available / 
Seule edition disponible 

Tight binding may cause shadows or distortion along 
Interior margin / La reliure serr6e peut causer de 
I'ombre ou de la distorsion le long de la marge 
int^rieure. 

Blank leaves added during restorations may appear 
within the text. Whenever possible, these have been 
omitted from filming / Use peut que certaines pages 
blanches ajout^es lors d'une restauration 
apparaissent dans le texte, mais, lorsque cela ^tait 
possible, ces pages n'ont pas 6t6 film6es. 

Additional comments / 
Commentaires suppl6mentaires: 



This item is filmed at the reduction ratio checked below / 

Ce document est film^ au taux de reduction indiquA ci-dessous. 



L'Institut a microfilme le meilleur exemplaire qu'il iu' a 
ete possible de se procurer. Les details de cet exem- 
plaire qui sont peut-etre uniques du point de vue bibli- 
ographique, qui peuvent modifier une image reproduite, 
ou qui peuvent exiger une modification dans la m^tho- 
de normale de filmage sont indiques ci-dessous. 

Coloured pages / Pages de couleur 

\\/\ Pages damaged / Pages endomm.ag^es 

□ Pages restored and/or laminated / 
Pages rcstaurees et/ou pellicul^es 

Pages discoloured, stained or foxed / 
Pages d6color6es, tachet6es ou piqu6es 

Pages detached / Pages d6tach6es 

[ I Showthrough / Transparence 

Quality of print varies / 
Oualit^ in^gale de I'impression 

Includes supplementary material / 
Comprend du materiel suppl6mentaire 

Pages wholly or partially obscured by errata slips, 
tissues, etc., have been refilmed to ensure the best 
possible image / Les pages totalement ou 
partiellement obscurcies par un feuillet d'errata, une 
pelure, etc., ont 6t6 film^es a nouveau de fa^on a 
obtenir la meilleure image possible. 

Opposing pages with varying colouration or 
discolourations are filmed twice to ensure the best 
possible image / Les pages s'opposant ayant des 
colorations variables ou des decolorations sont 
film6es deux fois afin d'obtenir la meilleure image 
possible. 



D 
D 



D 



lOx 








14x 








18x 








22x 








26x 








30x 


























(/ 



























12x 



16x 



20x 



24x 



38x 



32x 



The copy film«d h«r« has b—n raproducad thanks 
to tha ganarosity of: 



L'axamplaira filmi fut raproduit grtca k la 
ginArosit* da: 



Private Collection 



Collection privee 



Tha imagas appaaring hara ara tha bast quality 
possibia considaring tha condition and lagibility 
of tha original copy and in liaaping with tha 
filming contract spacificationa. 



Original copias in printod papar covars ara fllmod 
baginning with tha front covar and anding on 
tha last paga with a printad or illustratad impraa- 
sion, or tha back covar whan appropriata. All 
othar original copias ara filmad baginning on tha 
first paga with a printad or illustratad impraa- 
sion, and anding on tha last paga with a printad 
or illustratad imprassion. 



Las imagas suivantas ont Ati raproduitas avac la 
plus grand soin, compta tanu da la condition et 
da la nanat« da I'axampiaira film*, at an 
conformity avac las conditions du contrat da 
filmaga. 

Las axamplairas originaux dont la couvartura an 
papiar ast ImprimAa sont film^s an commancant 
oar la pramiar plat at an tarminant soit par la 
darniira paga qui comporta una amprainta 
d'imprassion ou d'illustration, soit par la sacond 
plat, salon la cas. Tous las autras axamplairat 
originaux sont filmAs an commandant par la 
pramiAra paga qui comporta una amprainta 
d'imprassion ou d'illustration at an tarminant par 
la darniira paga qui comporta una taila 
amprainta. 



Tha last racordad frama on aach microficha 
shall contain tha symbol -h^ (moaning "CON- 
TINUED"). or tha symbol V (moaning "END"), 
whichavar applias. 



Un das symbolas suivants spparaitra sur la 
darniira imaga da chaqua microficha. salon la 
cas: la symbols -^> signifia 'A SUIVRE". la 
symbols ▼ si'^nifia "FIN". 



Maps, platas, charts, ate. may ba filmad at 
diffarant raduction ratios. Thosa too larga to ba 
antiraly inciudad in ona axposura ara filmad 
baginning in tha uppar laft hand cornar. laft to 
right and top to bottom, as many framas as 
raquirad. Tha following diagrams illustrata tha 
mathod: 



Las cartas, planchas. tablaaux. ate . pauvant etra 
filmAs A das taux da reduction diffirents. 
Lorsqua la documant ast trop grand pour dtre 
raproduit mn un saul clich*. il ast film* * partir 
da I'angia supiriaur gaucha, da gaucha * droite. 
at da haut an bas. an pranant la nombra 
d'imagaa nAcassaira. Las diagrammas suivants 
illustrant la mithoda. 



1 


2 


3 




1 


2 


3 




4 


5 


6 





MICROCOPY RESOLUTION TEST CHART 

(ANSI and ISO TEST CHART No. 2) 



1.0 



I.I 



Ho 
lit 



2.8 



u 



3.2 
3.6 
4.0 



2.5 

12.2 

2.0 
1.8 




^ APPLIED IM/1GE 



Inc 



165,1 East Main Slrwl 
Rochester, New York 14609 
(716) 482 - 0300 - Phone 
(716) 288-5989 -Fox 



USA 



'.r\ 







Hoffman 

intemaiLiona^ 



le. 



Bridig 

Oritano. 




INDEX. 



PAGE. 

Apple Fritters 7 

Banana " 28 

Beef Tea- 27 

Beef a la Mode 3 

Beef Stew and Dumplings 3 

Bread aito24 

Baked Beans 5 

Brandy Peaches...* as 

Breakfast Oakes 30 

Buckwheat Cakes 22 

Boils, cure for 29 

OhIk 18 to ao 

Charlotte Russe 14 

Chocolate 27 

Cranberries 5 

Corn Fritters 7 

Oandy 27 

>^reams (Ice, etc.) is to 16 

Chicken Croquettes 7 

Codfish Balls ■. 2 

Codfish Picked up 2 

Cure for Cold ' 29 

Cure for Cough 29 

Desserts m to 17 

Doughnuts 30 

Dressings for Salads 9 

Entrees 7 

Egg Nog 27 

For Invalids 27 to 29 

Flaxseed Tea 28 

Fish 2 

Fish Croquettes 7 

Griddle Cakes aa and 30 

Infant Pood 28 

Ink Stains, for 3° 



PAGE. 

Icings 19 

Jellies 25 to 26 

Javelle Water 3° 

Kidneys 3 

Liver .' 3 

Lime Water a8 

Meats 3to4 

Mildew, to remove 3° 

Mustard Poultice 28 

Macaroni 4 and 6 

Mincemeat la 

Orange Soufflee 30 

Omelettes 7 

Oysters '• 3° 

Plokies »s 

Plea " to 13 

Puddings gton 

Preserves "s to 26 

Pancakes aa 

Rice Croquettes 7 to 30 

Raspberry Shrub 27 

Sauces 9 to 12 

Sausage Roll 7 

Sweetbreads 7 

Salads 8to9 

Spaghetti 6 

Spiced Fruits 36 

Soups ' 

Souse 3 

Stuffed Tomatoes • 4 

Tomato Catsup 25 

Vegetables 4to6 

Welsh Rarebit^eto ^ 

WafHes. »» 

Yorkshire Pudding... ■• ••■ 4 



* • 



% 



1 



r IS ONI'^Y a few months since the HOFPnAN 
CO.'S SILICO was first placed on the market. 
It was introduced as the best Scouring Soap, 
superior to the common Sand Soaps,' cleaninjj. is quickly as 
the coarser kinds, and not injuring; tlie surface. In fact, as 
the label states, it is the 

Up=tO"Date Cleaner! 
Cleans Everything! 
Injures Nothing! . . 

EVERYONE can afford to buy and to use SILICO. It 

can be obtained from any j^rrocer or druggist at 10 cents per 
cake, 3 cakes for 2S cents. Full directions in English and 
French with each cake. 

Don't buy Silico because we ask you to. Try the sample 
sent you ; prove its value, and then buy it because it is the 
Finest and the Best Scouring Soap you ever saw, and is 
economical. 

We have received testimonials from many of the best 
housekeepers in the country, and to enable you to know 
who have used SILICO we publish a few of the names of 
parties who have used it and enuorse it, and arrange the 
names and places alphabetically, so as to make them easy 
to refer to, and publish them every other page with the 
Household Recipes. 

The Recipes here published are well worth reading and 
preserving, as they have been selected with great labor 
from the very best authorities. 



WHAT SILICO'S USERS SAY OF ITS CiREAT USFFULNESS. 



HAMILTON, ONT. 

Adamatone, aa Rarton St. N....I use It a great deal. 

Anderiitn, 158 Catherine St Very nice, lovely for paint. 

Browne, iii victoria Ave . . Very nice. 

Butta, ajOak Ave Hike it, And it s;oo(l forullitiB recommended for. 

Hrounc.7a Queen St.S Very ifood, like it for Hilvcr. 

Howhill, t8 Orf-ve St , Like it very mi'jh, good for evtrythina. 

MB Hell, 114 Caroline St .......... LiUe It. 

Blake, iij Kobintton St do 

Birch, 171 Bold St : do 

Boffga, 179 Market St do 

Bawden, 7 Hess St Like it on ailver. 



Bellenton, 137 Market 3t Like it very much. 

Brown, 194 I.iarket St Like ic very Much 



, , ,^. ^, for scouring, 

Bnines, 44 Murray St Very rood. 

Beckett, 5a Poarl St Good Tor cleaning brass and tin. 

Blssell, 94 Vine Very good. 

Connor, a7 Oak Ave do. 

Coflfey, 47 Smith St do 

Collhill, 164 Maria St do 

Campbell, i86 Young St. S Does* its work well ; have used it for a montht. 

Crowley, i8i Herkimer St . Just snlendtd. 

Carlson, 138 Market Good for all house cleaning. 

Caroline, 156 KobinsonSt Very good, fine stuff. 

Crafts, 3a8 Duke St Splendid. 

Calvert, 343 Bold St Good. 

Cornish, 296 Jackson St. W Splendid. 

Clohsey, aa Grand Ave Likes it. 

Chapman, >7i Hunter St do 

Donald, 86 Vick Ave. V Very good. 

Dickman, 144 Hughson St. N...Like it very much. 

Dalton, 17 Barton St ... First class for paint work. 

Davies, 108 Catherine St Like it. 

Diack, 100 Catherine St Very nice. 

Darling, 143 Grand Ave Like it immensely. 

Dowery, as Oxford St Like it. 

Dodson, 113 Victoria Ave do 

Donley, ai9 Park St do 

Embury, 96 West Ave Use it right along. 

Brwin, aoa Main St. E Very good. 

Pltzpatrick, 163 Market do 

Flynn, 393 Jackson St Likes it. 

Fulton, 50 Main St. W do 

Faulkner, 350 Bold St do 

Fickey, 170 Bold St do 

Foster, 39 "Locomotive St do 

(irahani, 186 Cameron St. Very good. 

Guyett, loa Catherine St do 

Gardner, 143 Homewood Ave.. Like it very much, have used it » months. 

Dr. Gaviller, 70 Main St Very good. 

Grenn, ao Mill St Like it. * 

Guing, 181 Oueen St Very nice. 

Hogan, 48 C5ak Ave The finest soap for kitchen and house cleaning. 

Hallisay, 17a Maria St Very good. 

Hanbury, 33 Queen St Lovely. 

Halliday, 100 Ray St Like it. 

Heeney, 135 Mary St Would not use anything else. 

Kulme, 99 Murray St Like it. 

Imbodes, 193 Robinson do 

iohnston, 88 Cameron St Good for scouring, 
ohnson, 115 Ferguson Ave. S.Splendid. 
ants, 300 East Ave. N Like it very much, 
lleinsteiver, 233 Robinson St.Like it. 

Laud, 353 Hughson St Like it very well. 

Lumsden, 319 Main St Much finer than other scouring soao. 

Leach, 374 Main St Splendid. 

Lay, I70 Robinson Sc... Like it very much. 

Langtord, aaj Robertson St .Like it. 

Logan, 73 PouletteSt Like it. 

McConnell, 44 Oxford St Use it and find it good. 

Moore, 299 John St Good for scouring. 

SILICO, the up to date deauer Try *t. Only la cents per cake, 1 cakes for ss cents] 



o 
a 

tl 

P 






si 
b 
w 
B 
s« 
tc 

w 



s. 



nded for. 



sii.ico STANDAr?n rooK book. 



lonthi. 



:leanin|r. 



SOUPS. 

Amber Soup — A Uir^c. soup bono (two pt>undN), a chicken, a small 
slice of ham, an onion, two .spri|fs of parsley, half a Hmall carrot, half a small 
parsnip, half a stick of celery, three cloves, pepper, salt, a gallon of cold 
water, whites and shells of two e)fKs, and caramel for colorinif. Boil slowly 
f«>r five hours, beef, chicKen and liain ; add the vegetables andcloves to cook 
last hour, havinff first fried the onion in a little fat. Strain the soup Into an 
earthen bowl, and let remain over ni^fht. Next day remove cake of fat on 
the top ; takeout the jelly, avoiding the settlings, and mix into it the beaten 
whites of the e^RS, with the shells. Boil quickly «■ " half a minute, then pass 
through a jelly bag. When ready to serve, add ak. ^e tablespoon jf caramel. 

Split Pea Soup. One pint of peas, washed twice in warm water. 
Put two tablespoonfuls of water and onetablespoonful of dripping or bacon 
fat in a saucepan which will hold three pints ; put in the peas three hours 
a'^IT'^ 'J'ey are needed, and let stand on the back of the stove to swell. 
Add r»/a' water as they continue to swell. let simmer till twenty minutes 
before the soup is wanted. Shred some celery and one onion, very fine. 
xV^en the peas are boiling, add one teaspoonful of salt, dissolved in water, 
throw m the vegetables and boil ten minutes. Strain through a colander' 
beating the th:ck part with a wooden spoon. Return to saucepan and 
simmer. Mix one table.spoonful of flour in cold water, add a little hot broth 
and throw n. Serve w/th dice of toasted bread. 

Black Beikll Soup.— S( ak your beans over night, (one quart will make 
soup for twelve persons), put them on to boil, easily in the morning, tfrhen 
soft enough to mash strain them through a sieve, season v;ith salt and 
pepper and cloves. Cut a lemon in thin slices and quarter them, put in 
tureen with a glass of Madeira or sherry wine, and two or three hard boiled 
eggs quartered. 

Potato Soup.— Six boiled and mashed potatoes, one quart of milk, 
one-fourth pound of butter. Season with pepper and salt. While mashing 
add the butter and pour in gradually the boilin^f milk. Stir well and strain 
through a sieve, heat once more. Beat up an egg, put in the tureen and 
pour over it the soup when ready to s. jrve. 

Tomato Cream Soup.— Put kettle with one quart of tomatoes on the 
fire, add a l:ttle onion chopped fine, pepper and salt to taste and a pinch of 
soda, mix till very smooth. • In another kettle put a large teaspoonful of 
butter, same as flour and blend smoothly ; add one quart of milk, when 
thickened pour through a strai;ier the milk on the tomatoes, strain again 
immediately into hot tureen, and serve soon as possible. The two parts 
muat not cook together. 

FISH. 

Escaloped Fish.— Boil until tender any large white fish, remove the 
skin and bones and flake it, sprinkle with pepper and salt. For the dressing 
boil one quart ol milk, and thicken with one quarter of a pound of flour, 
when cold add one quarter of a pound of butter and two well beaten eggs! 
Butter a deep dish, put in a layer of fish then a layer of sauce alternately,' 
seasoning with onion and parsley until the dish is full, putting the sauce on 
top, sprinkle over it some bread crumbs and bake one hour. 

Picked-Up CodfUh. -Take coil ami pick up with two forks very fine, 
wash in two waters, put in pan with one pint milk, mix with little flour on 



u cents. 



SILICO cleans everythinE, injures nothiaar. 



4 What SILICO'S Uskws Say of its Great Ushfulness. 



silverwiiio and windows. 



HAMILTON, ONT., Conoludeo. 

Mrs. McKea, 19 Cannon St Use it, like it first-class. 

" MeKenasie, 5«5 Cathacan St Use it right along:. 

" Martin, 127 Emerald St Find it flrst-class. 

" McClelland, 235 Queen St Use it. 

" Morriss, 264 McNab St Like it very much, indeed. 

" Moore, 39 Herkimer St Very nice. 

" Millar, Bay St. S Never had anything to equal it for cleaning. 

" Man.sugh, 163 Main St. E ... Highly recommend it. 

" Macdonald, 232 Duka St Like it. 

" Mansfield, 251 Bold St Like it, 

" Miles, 169 Bold St Splendid 

" Malcolm, 81 Bold St Like it. 

" Mitchell, 128 Ray St. S Splendid 

" >*cKenna, 102 Ray St. S Like it. 

'• Matlhewson, 101 'Vine St Like it very much. 

" Markle, 250 Bay St Like it for scouring. 

" McLean, 246 Hunter St Like it very much. 

" Newcombe, 83 Magill St Like it very well. 

" Nelson, 30 Grove St Like it well, cleans splendid. 

" Nic'jl, 45 Caroline St Like it very well. 

" Olmsted, 49 West Ave Very good. 

" O'Connor, i8i Queen St. N Like it. 

" Patten, 280 King St Like it on windows. 

" Portaous, 76 Murray St First-class for cleaning windows. 

" Poag, as ^'"ith St Very good. • 

" Poock, 163 Herkimer St Lovely for cleaninv'. 

" Pullar, 96 Duke St Like It. 

" Quinn, 289 Jackson St. W Real well. 

" keece, 164 Market St Like it very much for 

" Reed, ig Grove St Cleans silver well. 

" Robertson, 62 Caroline Like it. 

MissKigsby, 180 King St. Use it and like it well. 

Mrs Rushton, 303 Mary St First rate for cleaning and scouring. 

■' Shearer, 112 George St Splendid. 

" SHayler, n8 Robinson St Like it very much. 

" Smith, 131 Robinson St Like it. . 

" Stevenson. 180 Duke St.. Like it. 

" Stephens, igC Bold St Likeit. 

" Shierstein, 284 Jackson St Very good. 

" Shaver, 104 Wilson St Used it for six months, like it well. 

Mr. Shafey, 311 Jackson St. W Grand. 

Mrs. Townaend, 30 Park St ...Like it very much. 

" Toke, iQi Robinson St Very nice. 

" Venattfn, 207 Bay St. N Used it for kitchen ware and like it first-class. 

" Vint, 17 Hess St. N Use it and like it. 

" Vaughan, 364 Hannah St Likeit. 

" Wallace, 110 Ferguson Ave ...Likeit. 

" Woodley, 109 Jackson St Likeit. 

" Williams, 2s Bailie .St Likeit. • ' , 

" Wilson, 54 Wilson St Likeit very much. 

" Wilde, 178 Duke St Likeit. 

" Webb, 331 Jackson St f.,ikeit. 

" Wright, 60 Crook St Likeit. 

" Young, 13s Market St Like it real well. 

TORONTO. ONT. 

Mrs Adams, 53 Peter St Good. 

" Anhite, i8 Robinson Street Good 

" Alexander, 130 Hleecker St Always satisfactory. 

" Bean, 53 Widmer St Good. 

" Bane, 43 Widmer St Very good. 

" Buckley, 292 Adelaide St W...Verv good. 

" Blum, 47 l^eter St Splendid. 

" Brown, 21 H Dorset ,St Good. 

" Barker, 78 Euclid Ave ,... . Good. 

" Bulley, 628 Parliament Better than any scouting soap. 

" Bedford, 624 Parliament Best scourinir soap, not irrittv. 

" Belford, 202 Bathurst .-. Beautiful on silver. 



SILICO, cleans quickly but DOES NOT SCRATCH. 



;s. 



SILICO STANDARD COOK BOOK. 



5 



inmg. 



windows. 



class. 



stove until it is cooked and looks creamy. Take off and add one egg 
beaten and cook little lonj^or. 

Codfish Balls. — Three pints boilinjf water, one cup salt codfish which 
has been picked into small pieces and freed from bones, one pint potatoes 
peeled find quartered. Put all together in pan, and boil until potjitoes are 
soft. Drain off the water, mash and beat until soft and smooth, add one 
teaspoonful butter, a little pepper, and when slijfhtly cooled, one well-beaten 
egg. Shape into balls with a tablespoon, and fry in hot lard. 

Boiled Fish.— Clean and wash the fish, tying in a well floured cloth, 
and place in a kettle of boiling water salted ; boil from three-quarters of an 
hour to an hour. 

Drawn Butter Sauce.— Cream well together ; one-half cup butter, 
two table wnfuls flour, add one-half pint boiling water, allow to come to 
boiling p and remove from stove ; season with pepper and salt. 

MEATS. 

Meats to be roasted or broiled, should be given the greatest amount of 
heat possible at first, that the surface may be hardened and the juices 
retained. 

Stewed Beef a la Mode.— Take the desired quantity of round beef, 
cut into three ounce pieces, and dredge with flour. P'ry in the stew pan 
some beef drippings and a sliced onion. Put in the meat, and fry well, 
stirring constantly ten minutes. Then add gradually enough water to 
cover the meat, season with salt, pepper, a teaspoonful each allspice, 
cloves and mace, a bay leaf, and a sliced lemon, l^et it sinmier gently 
four hours. 

Beef Stew with Dumplings. — Two pounds lean beef, cut into inch 
squares, sprinkled with salt, pepper, and two tablespoonfuls of flour. Cut 
fitt from meat into sm.ill bits, put in stew pan and fry ten minutes. Cut one 
onion, two slices carrot, two small turnips in sniall dice and fry in hot fat 
ten minutes. Put in the meat and fry till it browns, stirring to prevent 
burning, then pour over one large quart hot water, and set on stove where 
it will simmer gently two and one-half Iiours. Then add two sliced potatoes, 
boil ten minutes, then put in diunplings and boil hard ten minutes, without 
lifting the cover. DiinipUnos- Owit pint flour, two teaspoonfuls baking 
powder, one-half teaspoonful salt, one-quarter cup sugar. Mix tlu>roughly, 
and wet with one small cup milk. Roll one-half inch thick, cut with 
biscuit cutter. 

Pot Roast Beef.— Take a lean piece of beef. Cut a little fat from it 
and fry in an iron pot a few minutes. Season the beef, and sprinkle t>ver a 
little flour ; put in the pot and fry brown on all sides. I'our in hot w.iter to 
half cover the beef, cover tightly and cook until tender. Add a little boiling 
water at intervals to prevent burning. Thicken the gravy, and pour around 
the meat on the platter. 

Souse. —Take four young and tender pigs' feet, cover then* with water, 
and lot them boil very slowly until so tender that the bones come out, take 
the pigs' feet out and sprinkle a little salt over them ; when the liquor cools 
remove the grease and to one quart of the liquor add the same measure t>f 
vinegar ; boil it a few minutes with half a handful of whole pepper, and 
same quantity of whole allspice, and pour it boiling hot over the feet ; cover 
closely and keep in a cool place. To fry them, cut in »h.jck slices, roll in egir 
and cracker dust, and fry in hot butter. 



SILICO, the up to dat« cleaner. Try it. . Ority lo cents per cake, 3 cakes for as centa. 



T 



-W--JPT 



l. i^i » i n| l »M 



6 WHAT SILICO'S Users Say of Its Great Usefulness. 



TORONTO, ONT.. CoNTiNueo, 

Mrs. Banks, 510 Parliament St Good. 

" Bany, 73 Bleecker St Would not be without it. 

" Bell, 195 Bleecker St Good. 

" Bayley, 106 Gould St Best she ever used. 

" Butter, 56 Peter St Very good. 

" Creighton^o3 Bleecker St Very good. 

" Carroll, 50 Denison Ave Equals the best. 

" Casey, ygSeaton St ... Just as claimed, would not be without it. 

" Crawford, 133 Rose Ave ...Good. 

" Cranston, 58 Taylor Good. 

" Crandall, Kingston Road Very good. 

" Dawes, 20 Woolsey St Very jrood. 

" Dill, 53 Regent St Splendid. 

" Farley, Mercer St Worked well. 

" Flagler, 98 John St Like it well. 

" Fletcher, 66 Euclid Ave Splendid 

" Fisher, 65 Rose Ave Very good. 

" Ferris, 248 Berkeley Wouldnotbe wilhoutit. 

" Gamble, 58 Widmer St Good. 

" Griggs, 66 Mitchell Ave... Cleans nicely. 

" Goodwin, 246 Farley Ave Splendid. 

" Gadsby, 8t Denison Ave Very good. 

" Graham, 14 Gerraid St E Excellent. 

" Harker, 47 Mercer St Very good. 

" Hennessey, 21 Dorset St Good. 

" Humphrey,407 Queen St W,. Very good. 

" Henderson, 259 Sher bourne St.Splendid. 

" Hays, Lansdowne Splendid. 

" Hovenden, 244 Wellington St. Very good. 

" Hambly, 23 Oak St Very good. 

" Jackson, 34 Euclid Ave Good. 

u ^P?''' 582 Ontario St Always use it and would not be without it. 

". Kirk, 105 Bleecker St Finest and best. 

" Libby, 33 Parliament St Like it very well. 

" Laing, 57 Seaton St Good. 

" Long, Enderby Road... Very good. 

" Lowry, 238 Wellington W Very good. 

" Lundy, 27 St. James St Very good. 

" McGregor, 238 Sackville St Good. 

" Marsh, 322 Richmond St Good. 

" Moran, 340 Adelaide St. W Beat ever used ami ecommical. 

• McCracken, 15 Drummond PI.. Very good. 

" Miles, 82 Euclid Ave Very good. 

" McBride, 155 Euclid Ave Like it. 

'• McLellan, 633 Ontario St Equal to the best. 

" Mathers, 239 Farley Ave Verygood, 

" ,77 Mitchell Ave Very good. 

Mr. Alf. McNeil, 16 Queen St. E I find Silico Ai for cleaning windows and bar. 

Mrs. Maisland, 203 Bleecker St Good. 

Miss Martin, 256 Niagara St Good. 

Mrs. McGrand, 43 Seaton St First-class. 

" Marshall, 201 Seaton St Good. 

" McRoberts, 39 Widmer St Good. 

" , 251 Niagara St Good. 

" Owen, 15 St. James Ave Like it well 

" Otton, 6 Palmerston Ave Equal to the beat. 

" Onderkirk, 198 Wilton Ave Good. 

" Parliament, 16 Drummond St.Good. 

" Phillips, 64 Euclid Ave Very good. 

" Parrett, 184 Sherbourne St Ai. 

" Pierson, 236 Gerrard St E Good. 

" Roy, 318 Adelaide St. W Splendid 

" Ralth, loi 5^ Bleecker St Verygood. 

" Rowan, 76 Euclid Ave Splendid. 

" Raby, Lansdowne Ave Like it well. 

" Robertson, 67 Regent St Splendid. 

" Scriver, 51 Peter St Good. 

Miss Shain, 346 King St. W Very nice. 

Stutsbury, 143 Euclid Ave. . ;.. Very good. 



SILICO cleans everything, injures nothing. 



ss. 



tit. 



utlt. 



tnd bar. 



SILICO STANDARD COOK BOOK. 



To Cook Kidneys.— Slice the kidneys, fry them in a little lu>t butter, 
when done take them out and lay on hot plate. Make the following sauce, 
to a piece of butter size of a butternut add one teaspoonful chopped onion, 
little chopped parsley, one teaspoonful of flour, melt the butter in a 
saucepan and add the other ingredients. When it is browned add one and 
a half cupfuls of hot soup stock, let it simmer » few minutes, then season 
with pepper and salt and strain it, add a teaspoonful of sherry wine, let the 
kidneys remain a few minutes in the sauce without boiling, then sen/e. 

To Cook Liver. -Cut liver in small pieces, two tablespoons butter 
melted with one onion cut up fine, cook the onion until yellow, then add the 
liver and cook until you cannot see any blood, add one tablespoonful flour, 
then add gravy, or soup, or a little water, then add half a lemon and some 
red wine. 

Chicken Pie. — Cut into pieces one chicken, boil in enough wa.ter to 
cover until tender, adding when half done one tablespoonful salt. Take' 
out chicken, keep warm, and thicken the liquid with one tablespoonful each 
flour and butter rubbed together. Add salt and pepper to taste. Boil five 
minutes. Take one quart flour, two teaspoonfuls baking powder, a little 
salt and one small cup butter. Mix as biscuit. Take half, roll one-quarter 
inch thick, and line a deep dish, leaving an inch over the sides to turn up 
over top crust. Put in chicken, pour over gravy, cover with the other crust, 
with a large hole in centre for steam to escape. Wet the edge and fold over 
the under crust, press firmly together. Spread soft butter over the top, 
make ornaments to fit the centre, and bake until done. 

Fried Chicken.— Wash the chickens until all the blood is out, cut them 
in pieces, rub a very little salt over them, then roll each piece in flour. Fry 
them (covered) till a nice brown color in lard or butter. Make a gravy of 
cream and butter ; if the cream is not very thick, add a little flour, season 
to taste, adding a little mace or nutmeg as desired. 

English Yorkshire Pudding. - One-half pound of flour, one pint of 
milk, a pinch of salt, one teaspoonful of baking iv t^ — . Mix well together 
the baking powder, flour and salt, then add one c milk, and beat until 

perfectly smooth ; then add remainder of the milti. Melt some butter or 
dripping in a flat tin, pour in the batter, place a joint of beef or mutton on 
it, and bake in a quick oven. 

Veal Loaf: — Three and one-half pounds of minced veal (the leg is best 
for this purpose), three eggs well beaten, one tablespoonful of pepper and 
one of salt, one grated nutmeg, four rolled crackers, one tablespoonful of 
cream, butter the size of an egg. Mix these together and make into a loaf, 
roast and baste like other meats. Beef may be used in place of veal by 
adding one-fourth pound of salt pork, minced fine. 

VEGETABLES. 

To Cook riacaronl. — Half package of macaroni, break it up and p-it 
into water slightly salted, boil very hard then take the water off and put in 
a colander to drain. Then add a layer of grated cheese, and little milk, and 
bake three-quarters of an hour. 

Stuffed Baked Tomatoes. — Choose large ripe tomatoes, do not skin 
theo'v but scoop out small place at the top and fill with a stuflSng made of 
br'cid crumbs, minced onion, salt and pepper. First fry the onion in a little 
bu; • i, add the bread crumbs moistened with a little stock, fry a moment 



SILICO, cleans quickly but DOES NOT SCRATCH. 



8 WHAT SILICO'S Users Say of Its Gfieat Usefulness. 



TORONTO. ONT., Conoludmd. 



Mrs. 



-,57 St. James Ave ...Very jjoo'l- 

4 Mitchell Ave Very ij-ood. 



Mrs 


. K 


*^ 


P. 


ii 


M. 


ti 


K. 


%i 


R. 


tfc 


A. 


i4 


A. 


tt 


D. 


ti 


A. 



Sim, 74 Mitchell Ave Very good. 

Sidney, i6 Palinerstoii Ave Cleans nicely. 

Sheppard, 54 Denison Ave Very good. 

Spencer, 40 Robinson St ..Splendid. 
Tushingham, 310 Richmond vv. Good. 

, 56 Widmer St. Good. 

Wilson, i4Drunimond PI Very good. 

Wheelan,93 Peter St vSplendid. 

Wllfong, 100 Rose Ave Good. 

Wright, a8 Denison Ave Like it well. 

Waude, 209 York .St Ai. 

Walker, 232 Seaton .St Good. 

ALVINSTON, ONT. 

. IJorvoii.x Doi'S beautifully. 

Henry Does all it is recommended to do. 

Hillnian Is most useful. 

D. Mott It brightens jewelry beautifully. 

Morrisson Works nicely. 

McCallum Is grand for woodwork. 

McPhail Can highly recommend it. 

Ihompson Does silver beautifully. 

K. Vese Good for tinware and silver. 



Far superior to any 
[scouring soap. 



BRANTFORD. ONT. 

^L^' M. Kappase Very good on brass. 

J. Kennard Very nice. 

" J-K?»'""^y Very fine forglassand tinware, 

II W. Kerr Use Silico right along. 

R. Ryan Very nice on silver. 

II Rutledge Use it steadily. 

M. Sieger Very good. 

" J. Sisdale Very nice. 

I' ^ohn Sopington, Albion St Very nice. 

" felfer Very nice on spoons. 

BRUSSELS, ONT. 

Mrs. L. A.Avery Does the work beautifully. 

II Jno. Anient Prefer Silico to any scouring soap. 

J. h. Boronian Copper and silver. 

" G. Cr ■ .,-.-- 



'rooks 



Very fine indeed. 
Superior to other 
It IS a wonderful soap 



las. Cline Superiorto other scouring soan. 

F. Carr '" ■ ' ' • f i 



" P.Davidson It works just lovely. 

" ?!; '^■"^'"8^ Very nice on tin. 

.1 T 'a *^r'?i^i'"*'?l It does tin, silver and brass beautifully. 

J. A Giflford A very fine soap. 

A. Hay Lovely for tin and silver. 

Miss rhos. Henry A great improvement on scouring soap. 

Mrs. Hotoghtin It is far superior to all other .scouring soaps 

Jobb Far ahead of all soaps. 

" George Lowney Nice for tinware. 

" J. Lovel Itdoes tin and brass beautifully. 

. fe^"*'-.*^ .It is a beautiful soap. 

I E. C. Lowney Very fine on anything. 

A. McGuire Does copper and brass nicel v. 

I W. N. McBride Itdoes the work better than anything else. 

Neelands Nice for fn and silver. 

J. New Nice for tin and silver. 

II I; M. O'Connor Docs tin and silver beautifully. 

D. Prmifle Does spoons nicely. 

" Thos. Parker Good for tin and brass. 

Parke Reoommendit. 

" K. Roddick Does the work lovely. 

II Russell ....Agood soap. 

t. J^'"''^!'' Nile iiiV till and siivei . 

R. E. Spoiling It is lovely soap. 



SILICO, the up to date cleaner. Try it. Only to cents per cake, 3 cakes for «5 cents. 



•ss. 



SILICO STANDARD COOK BOOK. 



nor to any 
Jiing soap. 



soaps 



else. 



>r as cents. 



and fill the cavities, ailowinjr the stuffing to project half an inch above the 
top of the tomatoes, then bake in oven. 

Baked Beans. — Soak one quart of beans over nij^ht, pour off the 
water and cook in fresh water until they crack open ; then put into a deep 
earthen dish, cover with the water (add one teacup of nuilasses if desired), 
put into centre of the dish one-half pound of par-boiled pork which 
should be scored across the rind. Bake slowly four hours. Keep nearly 
covered with water until two-thirds done ; then allow them to bake brown. 

Beets.— Do not break the skins in washinjj or they will lose their color 
in cookinjf. Boil one hour in hot, slightly salt water. Rub off the skins, 
split in half, dish, and pour o\\ them a boiling mixture of one tablespoonful 
of melted butter, two of vinegar and a little pepper and salt. Serve wry 
hot. 

Scalloped Apples.—Butter a pudding dish, and put a layer of peeled 
sliced apples in the bottom. Sprinkle with sugar, a very little flour and 
cinnamon, and some small bits of butter. F"ill the dish in this manner, and 
bake one hour, covering the dish to prevent burning on the top. .Serve cold 
or hot. 

To Cook Cranberries. — Add tine teacup water tt> i>ne quart cran- 
berries, and put on the fire. Cook ten minutes, rub through a colander, add 
two heaping cups sugar and cook about ten minutes longer. Pour into a 
porcelain or china mould. Turn out as a jelly. 

Scalloped Onions, Cauliflower or Asparagus.— Bt>il either vege- 

table until tender, then put in baking dish and pour over sauce made of one 
tablespoonful butter rubbed into one and one-half tablespoonfuls flour, 
pour over it one pint hot milk, and cook until like custard. Bake one-half 
hour. Cut cauliflower or asparagus into small pieces before pouring over 
the sauce. 

Creamed Potatoes.— Put one tablespoonful butter in a frying pan and 
when it bubbles, add one tablespoonful flour. Add one cup hot milk, with 
salt and pepper to taste. Add one pint cold boiled potatoes cut into small 
dice, cook until thoroughly hot. 

Saratoga Potatoes.— Peel and slice very thin six large potatoes, lay 
them in ice water one hour, and thoroughly dry theni with a cleun 
towel. Drop each slice separately in a kettle of boiling lard, fry until crisp 
and brown. Take out with wire spoon, drain and sprinkle with salt while 
hot. 

Succotash. — Boil one quart lima or string beans until tender. Cut 
down the middle the grains of o\w dozen ears com, and scrape. Drain off 
water from beans, add the corn, season with salt, pepper and a good lump 
of butter. If too dry add a little cream or milk. Cook twenty minutes 
after adding the corn. 

Baked Tomatoes. — Take six large ripe tomatoes, skin and cut into 
small pieties. Spread a layer in the bottom of bake dish, season well, put 
a layer of coarse bread crumbs over the tomatoes with plenty of butter. 
Continue this until the dish is full, having bread crumbs on ti>p. Bake one 
hour. 

Turnips a la Creme. — Cut peeled turnips into half !!<ch dice, boil in 
salted water ami drain, pour over a cream sauce made of one cup hot milk 

SILICO cleans everything, injures nothing'. 



10 What SILICO'S Users Say of Its Great Usefulness. 



BRUSSELS, ONT., CoMOLuomo. 

Mrs. R. L. Taylor Does brass and copper nicely. 

" W. Wieldfang Heautiful for tin. 

" Watt Far ahead of nil scouring soaps. 

BOWMANVILLE. ONT. 

Mrs. Archibald Like it well. 

" Ashley Likeit very well. 

" Butler Like it very well. 

" Benmear Ifikeit. 

" Brockman Very good. 

" Bennett Very good. 

" Body Very nice. 

" Bobbett , ....Likeit. 

" Chesterfield Likeit. 

" Curtis Likeit. 

" Dobbs Like it first rate. 

" Dunlop Firstclass. 

'• Dany Very good. 

" Ellis Likeit. 

" Eardy Very nice. 

" Goodt Very good forscouring. 

" Greenfield Likeit. 

" Grose Very good. 

" Gaism Likeit. 

" Girling Very good. 

" Hughes Likeit. 

" Hoslins Like it. 

" Howson First-class. 

" Hastings Good. 

" James A first-class cleaner. 

" Jacobi Likeitvery much. 

" Lyons Likeit. 

" Luke First-class for cleaning. 

" Morris Like it. 

" Osborne Very nice. 

" Rainer First-class soap. 

" Sanders Likeit. 

" Smith Like it. 

" Sales Like it very much. 

" Shipman Likeit very well. 

" Thornton , Likeit. 

" Washington Like it very much. 

" Webster .' Likeit. 

OALEOr lA. ONT. 

Mrs. Avery Like it. 

" Bugg Like it well, 

" S. Harris Likeit. 

" W. Lawrence Likeit. 

" Moses Likeit. 

" Patterson Very good. 

" Wickett Goo^. 

" Young Likeit. 

EXETER. ONT. 

Mrs. Dr. Anderson It works nicely on oilcloth and spoons. 

" Dr. Amos It is a wonderful soap. 

" T. A. Brown Does silver and tin beautifully. 

" Wm. Bissell It is the best cleaner I have had. 

" T.Clark Works well on tinware and spoons. 

" Wm. Davidson It does all that is claimed tor it. 

" Essery Very nice. 

II c T«-.. ir — .. i2__ J! J .__-._ 

... J... J r^*y ttlltr rr-M w^^ptri Sliu Dras3. 

" Lambrook ^ Is a beautiful soap. 

" S.V.Saunders ..It is a perfect article. 



SILICO, cleans quickly but DOES NOT SCRATCH. 



SILICO STANDARD COOK BOOK. 



11 



ns. 



poured gradually over one tablespoonful each butter and flour rubbed 
together. Salt and pepper. 

WELSH RAREBIT, ETC. 

Welsh Rarebit.— One pound cheese, grated, one large tab!espix>n 
butter, one tablespoon tomato catsup, one-quarter te.-ispoon salt, one gill 
beer or ale, dash of red pepper. Cook in a double boiler, stirring all the 
time until smooth and thick. Serve on hot dipped and buttered toast. 

Macaroni with Cheese. — One-quarter pound or twelve sticks 
macaroni broken into one inch lengths, and cooked in three pints boiling 
salted water twenty minutes. Turn into a colander and pour over it cold 
water ; drain. Make a sauce of one tablespoonful each of butter and flour 
and one and one-half cups hot milk, salt. Put a layer of grated cheese in 
bottom of bake dish, then a layer of macaroni and one of sauce ; then 
cheese, macaroni and sauce, and cner the top with fine bread crumbs, 
with bits of butter dotted over, and a little grated cheese. Bake until 
brown. 

Spaghetti. (Mexican style.) Put a tablespoonful of lard and butter 
in a porcelain saucepan. When hot add one-quarter pound of spaghetti 
broken in desired lengths, half an onion sliced, one large tomato sliced, 
pepper and salt, and a dash of red pepper. Stir to prevent b»iming, and 
allow to brown slightly. Then add one large cup stock or hot water and 
boil until the water has been absorbed, being sure the spaghetti is tender. 

ENTREES. 

Apple Fritters. — Mak^ a batter with one cup sweet milk, one tea- 
spoonful sugar, two eggs, whites and yelks beaten separately, two cups 
flour, one teaspoonful baking powder niixed with flour. Chop some good 
tart apples, mix in the batter, and fry in hot lard. Serve with maple syrup. 

Chicken Croquettes. — One boiled chicken, two ounces of melted 
butter, two ounces of flour, one cup of the water the fowl has been boiled 
in, one-half cup of cream, pepper and salt, two eggs, nutmeg. Boil the 
butter, flour, cream and water together for two minutes. Mix with the 
minced chicken, cool, then mould, roll in egg, then in bread crumbs, and 
fry. 

Corn Fritters. — One pint grated corn, one-half teacup milk, one-half 
teacup flour, one small teaspoonful baking powder, one tablespoonful 
melted butter, two eggs, one teaspoonful salt, a little pepper. Fry in hot 
lard. 

Fish Croquettes. — One pint cold boiled fish, free from skin and bone 
and minced fine, one pint hot mashed potato, one tablespoonful butter, one- 
half cup hot milk, one egg well beaten ; pepper and salt and a little chopped 
parsley. Mix thoroughly and let cool. When cold make into balls, dip into 
a beaten egg, roll in bread crumbs and fry in hot lard. 

Omelet. — Six eggs, one-half teaspoonful of salt, three tablespoonfuls 
of milk, one of butter. Separate the eggs and beat very light, add the salt 
^nd milk ; have the pan very hot, put in the butter and pour in the egg. 
Shake on the hottest part of the stove till the egg begins to thicken, then 
place on the grHle iii llie oven uiilii hci ; run the kiiife between the sideit of 
the omelet and pan, fold and serve on a hot dish. 

SILICO, the up to date cleaner. Try it. Onljr lo cents per cake, 3 cakee for ag ceata. 



i 



1 



1 2 WHAT SILICO'S Users Say of Its gkhat Usefulness. 

QRIMSBY. or.-! . 

Mrs. Dr. Alway, Main bt Likes It. 

" Chambers, John St Likes it vt-ry much. 

" W. Chirk, (Jnturio .St Veryjfooii. 

" Geo. Cole, Ontario St Very Rood. 

" las. Farrell.Ottk St Likeslt. 

" Thos. Flood, Main bt Splendid. 

" Hewitt, Depot St Veryffood. 

" House, JohnSt Very nice, in dt'od. 

" Hughes, Ontario St Works very well. 

" Kin.ir, Elizabeth St Likes it. 

" Lec^uah, Adelaide Ht Likes ft. 

" I-iivinfrstone, Main St Likes it. 

" McNish, Oak St Very good anil very handy. 

" Nelles, Depot 8t Very good. 

" Sanders, John St Splendid. 

" (j. S. Vandyke, John St ..Very good. 

• HARRISTON, ONT. 

Mrs. Buchanan Does tin and silver beautifully. 

" R. Bennett Does the work very nicely. 

Miss Fades It is a lovely soap. 

Mrs. M.Irvine Nice for tin and silverware. 

.. Ju!°***' v; Nice for tin and silverware. 

" Thurtell Nice for any house. 

HAQERSVILLE. ONT. 

Mrs. Anderson Likes it. 

" Bubiirge do 

" Burbridge Very good. 

" Campbell Very good. 

'' Croman , Like it. 

Predericke Recommend it to everybody. 

" Hawke . Verygood. , 

" Howard Verygood. ' 

" W.Harrison Like it well. 

" Heaslip Like it. 

" Hammond do 

" Dr. Jones Verygood. 

" Dr. McDonald do 

" Mealy Splendid. 

Mr. lieo. Start Like it. 

•Mrs Shaw do 

'! ,V- Smelzer Like it very much. 

Snider Likeit. 

" Slp"k Splendid. 

" Underbill Like it. 

" Walker do 

" Home, Church St do 

" Kinsley do do 

JARVIS. ONT. 

Mrs. Allen, Main St Like it very welL 

" Bennett do Like it. 

" Coleman do do 

" Frisette do do 

" W.H.Hammond do do 

" Hager do Like it very weH. 

Lewis do Likeit. 

" Millenbeacher do .. . do 

!! ^^"" „ , ''" Likeit splendid. 

^■(cison Siobio do Like it very well. 

" Rogers do . . Like it. 

" Smith -do Very satisfactory indeed, 

SIL'ICO cleans everytbiri;, Injured nothing:. 



JESS. 



SIIJCO STANDARD COOK BOOK. 



13 



Rice Croquettes. HdII unc-lialf i-np nf nco vory soft, when rold beat 
in twi) ojjfifs, two .spoi)nl"iils i)f siitcar, one leaspooiiful of salt. Form into 
balls, dust a little flour over, roll in ej;^- anil fry. 

Sausaj^e Roll. -Make (li>iijjh as for bakinji^ powder biscuit. Roll and 
cut into piiHi's four inelu's wiile and twice as lon^. Take fine sausage, put 
two or njore pieces in the dough and roll up. Press the ends tofjether and 
bakv3 half an hour. 

Sweet-bread Croquettes. — Boil in salted water twenty minutes two 
pairs sweet-breads. Throw them into cold w.iter for a few niinutes, remove 
the skins and little pipes. Cut them into tlice, also one-half box mushrooms. 
Put one larg-e tablespoonful butter into a saucepan, when it bubbles add t>no 
tablespoonful flour ; ctiok well, and add one g-ill cre.im or soup stock. Cook 
and add sweet-breads and mushrooms. He.it wi'll, t.ike fron> fire, and atld 
beaten yolks of two eg^js. When ci>ol forn' into croquettes, roll in be.iten 
egg and cracker crumbs, and fry in hot lard. 

SALADS. 

Tomato Salad.— Skin and slice some ripe tomatoes, also one white 
onion ; lay them oi\ the ice until cold, put them in a salatl bowl, sprinkle a 
very little sugar over them (about a saltspoonful), pepper them well, pour 
about three tablespoonfuls of salad oil over them, a little Worcestershire 
sauce, and the last thing, one tablespoonful of vinegar witii one heaping 
teaspoonful of salt dissolved in it. Be very careful not to break the 
tomatoes, but mix the dressing at one side of the dish and gently pour it 
over with the spoon. The same dressing can be used for lettuce and 
cucumbers without the sugar. 

Lobster Salad. — Cut the meat of two smalt lobsters into small pieces. 
Add a little of the fat .'ind coral. Then season with salt and pepper, and 
pour over enough mayonnaise dressing to moisten well. Put in the middle 
of a platter, garnish with lettuce leaves, pour over the remainder of the 
dressing, and put slices of boiled egg and olives over the top. 

Potato Salad.- One quart of potatoes, boiled with skins on, one small 
white onion, twt> teaspoonfuls of olive oil, pepper and salt, and a littU? 
parsley, one-half cup of weak vinegar. After potatoes are co/d cut up in 
small pieces. Chop the onion and parsley fine and mix all together. 

Shrimp Salad. — One can shrimps. Wash ajid cut in halves. Make a 
dressing of two eggs, whites beaten first then yelks added, one tablespoon- 
ful salad oil added slowly, one teaspoonful each salt and pepper, one-half 
cup vinegar, a little made mustard. Stir all together on stove until it 
thickens, and when cold pour over the shrimps, to which has been added 
celery or finely cut lettuce. 

French Dressing.— One tablespoonful of vinegar, three of olive oil, 
one saltspoonful of salt, one of pepper, and a liMc scraped onion,, if 
desired. 

Lettuce Dressing (without oil).— One-half pint cream or rich milk, 
one-half p' rood vinegar (v:ak), one small teacup sugar, three eggs 
well beaten, a iump of butte. .»ize ot an egg, one teaspoontui ground 
mustard. Pepper and salt. Mix all together cold, and cook until thick as 
custard. 



SILICO, cleans quickly but DO&S NOT SCRATCH. 



14 What SILICO'S Users Say of Its (Ireat Usefulness. 







KINCARDINE. ONT. 

Mrs. Wm. Arnold Does copper nicelv. 

Mi'ssrB. ArinHtroiiK Bros It does silver beautifully. 

Mrs.Oeo. Acheson Does tmisa and silver very well. 

*""■" I8 a wonderful soap. 

do do 

I-ovely for mirrors. 

.. 14 u /<u ^ Very nice for silver and tin. 

.. w tV . "x S"P^'"'"''*°an>'thinK I have ever used. 

" )VlV i?."lie«"ty It Is a wonderful soap. 

.. ^^-^u,. Is far ahead of any scouring soap. 

., ^ilchrist Does the work beautifully. 

.. r • fJ®^*"*?; Beautiful for silver and tin. 

.. I- V; Leadbetter Lovely for silver. 

.. ;Jt..?*°^'"®^""" Beautiful for copper and silver. 

Miller Good. 

l; ^,"^r?y„ ; Nice for silver and tin. 

W. W. Mannud It is simply a marvel. 

Mi.ss Monroe Nice for silver. 

Airs. McPherson Beautiful 

» w"!;?/^-. 'i'he best I ever used. 

.. w^' j^ Does everything lovely. 

!! ^•J^^f'^y Beautiful lor silver and tin. 

" c »? ^**^ just lovely, don't scratch. 

.. ?,9°''„ Does the work lovely. 

« «r'"- ^f^^"*"* Does beautiful work. 

» u «• o^^'**/ Good for brass and silver. 

„ g- N. Sorndy. It is a wonderful soap. 

^^ f^- """'th. Does brass beautifully. 

K. htoneham Nice for brass and copper. 

. i^i^^r^f,'; Beautiful for silver. 

:, 5$;*- wniiams Works better than any other. 

I w *■ ^''«°" Nice for brass and copper. 

, ^yp"? Is a very fine soap. 

Whiteley Does the work beautifully. 

LONDON. ONT. 

Mrs. Wm. Bowen, Princess St Splendid. 

;; JohnFiddes Beautiful for silver. 

» 4' g^T'son, Princess St Nice for sliver. 

J . Keely, do Splendid for woodwork. 

MT. FOREST. ONT. 

Mrs. M. Adams Nice for silver and tin. 

Harrington Does almost everything nicely. 

.. r?il!i^*.- S^"^ *°*" 8l«8* an^ mirrors. 

., y^iiDert Nice on brass and tin. 

i^'irdner A splendid soap. 
"V?%F i Nice for windows and silver. 
• McPhaden Very nice for tin and silver. 
. K . Noonan Works nicely on many articles. 

" o iP* Very nice for tin and brass. 

" wnif* ■^ ^^'■y '*"* Boap. 

i> ™ X Does tin and spoons nicely. 

West I like it very much. 

NIAGARA FALLS, ONT. 

M.^8-W"-,^oyd Better than other scouring soaps. 

S.Nelliems Like it very much. ^ 

N.Weber Like it very well. 

O^HAWA. ONT. 

Mrs. Edwards, John St Granc for cleaning. 

" Gregory, Metcalf St Very good. 

" Horn, 8s Centre St Like it. 

" Jeweii, Centre St Like it. 

" McLean, 91 Centre St Like it. 

" Sweeney, John St Like it. 

Ward, Centre St Very nice. 



SILICO, the up to date cleaner. Try it. Only 10 cents per cake. 3 rakes for as cents. 




cent*. 



SIUCO STANDARD COOK BOOK. 



\% 



Mayonnaise Dressing;. Put tlu« y»Mk of .-m iXK "">'*' « howl with a 
saltspoonlul of salt, anil boat until lijflit ; thi'ii add iialf-i toaspornriil of dry 
mustard, rind beat ajjaiu. Thou add olive oil, drop by drop, until it is 
thickening',, thon a few drops of vinejfar, ami the same of lo;non juice. Con- 
tinue this process until the ejfj? has absorbed a little more than a gill of oil ; 
finish by adding a Tt-ry iHt!c cayenne pepper. 

Salad Dressing. -Put the yelks of two egg's in a phite, one teasptwn- 
ful of mustard that has been mixed with vinegar, salt to taste, fi thii.frht 
of cayenne pepper. With a silver tV>rk stir in oil, ilrop by drop, till the 
mixture can be almost lifted froi . the plate. Thon add vury str»>ng 
vinegar, (a small quantity ♦' you w sh the dressing to be thick), then heat 
the whites of the two eggs and stir into the dressing just before it is put on 
the salad. 

Hollandaise Sauce (for fish). Rub one-half cup butter to a cream. 
Add the yelks of two eggs one at a time, and beat well. Stir in the juice 
of half a lemon, one saltspoon salt, and a pinch of cayenne pepper. Wiien 
ready to serve, add one-half cup boiling water, place the bowl in a pan of 
boiling water or in the top of teakettle and cook until thick as custard 
stirring all the time. 

Mint Sauce,— One-fourth pint of vinegar, four tablespoonfuls of 
chopped meat, and two of sugar. Let stand for an hour or more before 
using. 

Oyster Sauce.— To drawn butter sauce, add a few small oysters 
drained from their liquor, and a few drops of vinegar or lemon. Let come 
to a boil and serve. 

Tartare Sauce. — Make a mayonnaise dressing and add one table- 
spoonful finely chopped Gherkins pickles. 

PUDDINGS. 

Apple Pudding. —Fill a buttered baking dish with sliced apples and 
pour over tne top a batter made of one tablespoonful of butter, one-half cup 
of sugar, one egg, one-half cup of sweet milk, and t>ne cup of flour in 
which has been sifted one teaspoonful of baking powder. Bake in a 
moderate oven till brown. Serve with cream and sugar, or liquid sauce. 
Peaches are very nice serveu in the .ame way. 

Apple Tapioca Pudding. — Soak a cup of tapioca in water three or 
four hours. Pare and core eight or ten apples, fill the holes with sugar and 
stick a clove or two in each apple. I'ow the tapioca over them as they are 
placed in the pudding dish, and bake till the apples are thoroughiy done. 
Be careful not to have the tapioca too thick. Eat with milk or cream. 
Excellent for the sick. 

Baked Apple Dumplings. — One quart flour, two tcaspoonfuLs baking 
powder, one-half teaspoonful salt mixed well together. Add one large 
tablespoonful butter and lard mixed, and enough sweet milk or water to 
m ike a soft dough. Roll out into half-inch sheets. Peel and quarter some 
good tart apples. Put each quarter on a square of dough, sprinkle over it 
Ruo-ar and Dress the ed^es together firmly. I'lace in a deep n;j.n, sprinkle 
over sugar and a little cinnamon, and put a bit of butter on each. Fill 
the pan with water (boiling) just leaving top of dumplings uncovered, 
then bake forty-five minutes. Serve with sweetened cream or hard sauce. 



SILICO cleans everything, injui jthing. 






16 What sii.ico'S Usfhs sat or- Its ghhat Ushfui.ness. 

PARIS. ONT. 

Mrn. T. Smith '. Very good. 

" ThoH Scott Lovely. 

'' Ins. Wilson Very nice. 

" I, KdwurilH VeryKoo'l. 

" H. Sliipnian Very jfooil. 

RAISLt£Y. ONT. 

MrH. Hain Does the work bfuntlfttily, 

" McKiirlune Very nice. 

" McKenzie A very tine sonp. 

" I'aterHon Very nice. 

" Sliielils ...Very fine on copper iiiitl tin. 

PORT ELQIN, ONT. 

Mrs. Hrulsfc A very (ine soap. 

. " Messner Heaiitifnl for tin and silver. 

" S. Mnlvaney Very f.ne on tin ami silver. 

ST. MARY'S, ONT. 

Mrs. Byron Very nice. 

" J. Hrouxhton Better than nnv other. 

" W. Bttllantync Nice on silver. ' 

" Noble Clnff It is the best soap 1 have ever \ised. 

" Geo. Duncii.i A splendid soap. 

" ChHS. FlooU Very fine soap. 

'.! •l.-r^Jf,",'""". \^ '•"•-'« brass and copper nicely. 

" W. tiillespie Lovely on tin and silver. 

" N. Gerb Does tin nicely. 

" Lauder Very nice for copper. 

" Dr. McMinty It is a splendid soap. 

" Murray Beauiifid for tin and silver. 

L. Mcl'are Far ahead of all other soaps. 

A. Nichol Cleans silver lovely. 

W ^^S: ♦^'-'t'l'''-"!* On oilcloth it removed stains that nothini' el.se 

' J- Strange Very nice on tin. lu^.nl.l 

" Chas.Strong Very good. l^oulil. 

" Win Sleith •. Does windows! beautlfuUv. 

" Sommerville A perfect soap. 

" Jno. Thoinp.son A wonderful soap, cleans evervthiiir-. 

Jno. Walker Very jjood for windows. 

STRATFOHi:.\ Of^f. 

Mrs. R. Aikin Very .1 •- 1 i rMv ware 

" J; Aikin Very ,,..,, jr sii.ervvare. 

Win. Burgess Vervgood. 

" Capt. S. T. Cook ^ ani greatly pleased with it. 

" HfRi*^^ It is a great soajj. 

.. W.H.Dunbar It is awayahead of any other soai>. 

?,• Day It is simply beautiful. 

BryceKnnis Ahead of any other soap. 

'I J. Fisher Does tinware nicely. 

Jno. Hern Good for windows, silver, etc. 

u ?■ u "i",?" •"* ''^ J"*** -w^aRt it is represented lo be. 

J. B. Hill I am delighted withit. 

J. Fooper Splendid for woodwork. 

" C. " Jones It does all metal lovely. 

" J- jOhnston Lovely for tin and silver. 

■' f- Jezard I think it ahead of any other soap. 

!! H- Je'-a'"'' Would use no other. 

!! * u 1''^' '^icn for silver and windows. 

A.H.King . It is a wonderful soap. 

" Jno. Lawder Tt in splendid. 

W '^- ^\\'^^^ It is far ahead of any other .soai\ 

Jno. Morns A splendid soap. 

" J. A. Morrisson do do 

S1LIC0, cleans quickly but DOES NOT SCRATCH. 



ss. 



s*^ 



I win 



se 
I. 



SII ICO STANDARD C 'lOK ROOK. 



17 



Chocolnte Pudding'— One pint milk, 
three egg's, five tahli-spDonfuis grated 
breadcrumbs and chocolate. Take from ti 



Brown Betty.— Grease a pudding dish, and place mi I he boiioii* a 
layer of bread crumbs. Then nearly fill lh»' dish with alternate layers <rf 
bread crumbs, and chopped, or sliced apples, itrewing brown sugar, cin 
namon, .and a little butter, over e;ich layer, lopping otFwith t lumbs. Kako 
one hour, and serve with hard sauce. 

Cherry or Blackberry Bread.- Stew cherries or blackberries, • 
sweeten to taste. Butter some slices of stale bread with crusts cut 
Then put a l.iyt r of the buttered bread in the Ixitlom of serving dish . U 
pour over it hot stewed fruit. Repeat until dish is full or fruit u.s. 1. To • 
eaten cold, with cream. 

Hie pint breatl crumbs, yelks of 
cnocolate. Scald the milk, ;idd 
ami aild one-half c>>p .sugar, 
and the beaten yelks. Bako in puddiuK dish liftt-en minute.s Maki- 
meringue of whites of eggs and three tabU spoonfuls sugar, sprcrd over 
pudding, and brown. Serve cold with cream. 

Christmas Pudding (Plain). Two quai ^ stale bread without crust. 
Break in small pieces, and put in slow oven t dry not bn>wn. Pour over 
the dried crumbs two quarts of milk, let soak uie hour. Then beat well, 
add six beaten eggs, a cup each sugar and mo .isses, a cup minci-^suet to 
two-thirds cup butter, one and a half pounds .si ded raisins, a tea spoonful 
cinnamon, one-half teaspoonful each cloves and u ace, half a grated uutmeg, 
two teaspoonfuls salt. Butter a large pudding 'ish, pour in puilduig, and 
bake in slow oven three or four hours, covering to keep from gc-uing too 
brown. Serve with wine sauce. 

Delmonico Pudding. — One quart of milk, t iree tablespoonfuls corn- 
starch mixed with a little cold milk, the yelks ol five eggs beaten with six 
tablespoonfuls of sugar. Boil three or four mini os. Pour in a pudding 
dish and bake about one-half hour. Beat the wl tes of the eggs with six 
tablespoonfuls of sugar ; spread over the top, and i turn the pudding to the 
oven until it is a delicate brown. 



, seeded •- two pounds 
1 ; two pounds bread 



English Plum Pudding.— Two pounds raisii 
currants well washed ; one-half pound sliced citr 

crumbs ; two pounds chopped suet ; juice and gratd rind of three lemons 
six eggs, beaten; two pounds light biown sugar; >ur grated nutmegs; 
one table^poonful salt ; milk. Mix all the fruit thoi uighly, then add egv^s 
and milk, a little at a time, adding carefully to mai- e it moist enough la 
stick together, not wet. Fill bowls the desired size, even full, cover with 
cloths tied over tightly, and boil steadily eight hours. When wanted for 
use, boil one hour. Serve with ice cream and rich wine sauce. Will keep 
all winter. 

Peach Cottage Pudding.— Stir sliced peaches into a baiter made of 
one-half cup sugar, three tablespoonfuls melted butter, >ne beaten egg, one 
cup milk, one pint flour, and one and one-half teaspoon uls baking powder. 
Bake in a loaf, and serve with hard sauce. 

Peach Pudding. — Fill idding dish with whole peeled peaches, and 
pour over them two cups wau . Cover closely, and bake until peaches are 
tender, then drain off the juice from the peaches, and let it stand until cool. 
Add to the iuice one pint .sweet milk, four well beaten eggs, a small cup 
flour with one teaspoonful baking powder mixed in it, one cup sugar, one 
tablespoonful melted butter and a little salt. Beat well three or four 



SILICO, tb« up to cUte cleaner. Try it. Only tc. cents per cake, 3 cakes for as cents. 



18 What silicO'S Usehs Say of Its Great Usefulness. 



STKATORD, ONT., Concluded. 

iMrs. I'eter Parker Goodon brass. 

" V'm. Proctor lieaul if ul for copper. 

!' l^- i^- K^obinson It is no trouble to clean anytliinjr. 

Jane Rowland I like it better than any. 

" K. Ritchard Nice for tin. 

" W. Snow A lOvely soap. 

" M. Sipes A beautiful soap. 

!! Jno- •''i"t:lair Does the work better than any I have used 

M.Turner Splendid. 

" Jos. Taylor Nice for tin and silver. 

I' C. Westfall Beautiful on silverware. 

A. Ward The very best I have e\er used. 

!. J,"Ol^Whitby Nice for silver. 

" V' ^''^ Makes easy work. 

\\ J- 2- y.onngr Far ahead of any other soap. 

J. F. Rififht (iood for tin and silver. 

Jos. Wilson. Does all claimed for it. 

STRATHROY, ONT. 

Mrs.R.H.Coutts Does all claimed for it. 

>". T?' ■i^?""^ I>oes porcelain and silver nicely. 

.1 f,- 'l-lliott Does tin and silver nicely. 

M. Creddes Beautiful for brass. 

1^ McClennan Beautiful for silver. 

" J"*^,- Mcintosh Consider it superior to an vthinL- 1 have ever used. 

Richardson Splendid for brass. 

[[ V" ^i Smith Beautiful for silver. 

J- ^iiton Nice for tin and silver. 

J. R. Whitehead Does tin and silver lovely. 

WALKERTON, ONT. 

Mrs. Beldson A lovely soap. 

" 5;,l^rigg8 Very fine on brass. 

' Klliptt Lovely on silver. 

A. Lewis Nice on silver. 

!! T-,??^^,l^'"., A splendid soap. 

J. W. McKee A beautiful soap. 

. w , ''" Does the work nicely. 

.. ,■/■,?".'/"'■'' Does all claimed for it. 

/ J,-'^ Pulford It is a lovely soap. 

K. Rothwell Makes work easy. 

WATFORD. ONT. 

Mrs. M Canter Good for copper, zinc and tin. 

J-S. Eccles Simply lovely. 

'' P- E. Fuller Does copper and tin oeautifully. 

Wm. targo Works beautifully. 

.. o,?°T^"®'l Does tin and silver thoroue-hly. 

S. B. Howden Does work nicely. 

.! J'- J""es Works lovely. 

L. Lewis Can recommend it. 

" Jas. Leigh Nice for tin and silver. 

J. R. Taylor Splendid in every respect. 

' Geo. Young Works beautifully on tin and glas.s. 

WOODSTOCK, ONT. 

Mrs. Barrett A very good soap. 

" J.Cross Nice for silver. 

" r. Gibbons It works nicely. 

" T. Hedley Verynice. 

" Morrison Verynice. 

II Nelles Very nice on brass. 

W. Scott Very nice on windows. 

" H. Tibba Does tin very well. 

" Watson Verynice on silver. 



n 

V 

n 

s 
tl 
a 

c 

s 
a 
c 

• 

n 
1. 

tl 

J' 

tl 

b 



SILICO cleans everything, Injures nothing. 



SILICO STANDARD COOK BOOK. 



19 



ed 



er used. 



minutes, and pour ovty peaches in dish. Bake until a rich brown, and serve 
with cream. 

Poor Man's Pudding. -One cup of sweet or sour milk, one cup of 
molasses, one-half cup of butter, one pound of raisins, two egg's, one tea- 
spoonful of soda, a little nut meg' aiul ciMnanion, flour suflBcient to make as 
thick as cake. Boil four hours without stopping' in a floured bag' or mould, 
allowing room to swell. To be eaten with sauce. 

Prune Pudding. — One pound stewed prunes, whites of four eggs, one 
cup sugar. After the prunes are stewed, drain off the juice, remove the 
stones and chop. Beat the eggs very stiff", add the sugar gradually, beating 
all the time, then stir in the chopped prunes. B.ike twenty minutes. Serve 
cold with whipped cream flavored with wine. 

Queen of Puddings.— One pint of fine bread crumbs, one quart of 
milk, one cup of sugar, the yelks of four eggs beaten, grated rind of one 
lemon, butter the size of an e^i^. Bake until done. Whip the whites of 
the eggs stiff, and beat in a cup full of sugar in which has been stirred the 
juice of the lemon. Spread on the pudding a layer of jelly or jam. Pour 
the whites of the eggs over this and replace in the oven until slightly 
browned. 

Rice Pudding. — Take one teacup of rice, wash, pour boiling water 
over and let stand five minutes ; throw off water, add a cup of sugar, a little 
nutmeg and two quarts of milk. Bake slowly about two hours, stirring 
occasionally until last half hour, then brown. 

Snow Pudding. — Dissolve one-half box of gelatine in one pint of cold 
water ; when soft, add one pint of boiling water, the grated rind and juice 
of two lemons, and two and one-half cups of sugar. Let stand until cold 
and begins to stiffen. Then beat in the whites of five eggs, well beaten. 
Pour into a mould and set on ice. Sei*ve with custard sauce. — One quart of 
rich milk, the yelks of five eggs, with two extra eggs added, one-half cup 
of sugar. Flavor with vanilla. 

Suet Pudding. — Two eggs, one cup milk, one-half cup of molasses, 
one-half cup of suet chopped fine, one teaspoonful of salt, two teaspoonfuls 
of baking powder sifted in three small cups of flour, cloves, cinnamon, nut- 
meg, and as much fruit (stoned raisins and citron) as you like. Steam two 
hours* Sauce — one-half cup of butter, two cups of sugar, a little boiling 
water and a little nutmeg, beaten well together. 

Blueberry Shortcake. One and a half cups of butter, one cup of 
sugar, two eggs, one cup of sweet milk, three and one-half cups of flour, 
two teaspoonfuls of baking powder, one pint of berries, washed. If eaten 
hot, make a sauce of cream and sugar, or simply sugar over. 

Plain Strawberry Shortcake. —Make a crust with one-half more 
shortening than for biscuit. Roll in two sheets. Spread the under one with 
butter, place the other on top and bake. When baked, separate layers and 
place mashed and sweetened fruit between and on top. Or the crust can be 
baked in one piece and split and buttered after baking. Peach, orange, 
apple and rhubarb shortcakes are very nice. Serve with cream. 

Whortleberry Pudding.— Rub thoroughly one-half cup of butter with 
one and one-half cups of sugar ; add one cup of sweet milk, two eggs, 
three cups of flour, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder. After adding one 
cup of the flour, stir in one pint of berries, then the remiinder of the flour. 



T.. u.^ 



»;t1, V.-.fr1 



SILICO, cleans quickly but DOES NOT SCRATCH. 



20 WHAT SILICO'S USERS SAY OF ITS GREAT USEFULNESS. 

ST. JOHN. N.B. 

Mrs. Andrews, Metcalf St Good for tinware and silver. 

" Armstrong, Lancaster St Very nice. 

" Armstrong, West Side Good. 

" Akroyd, 57 Crown St Good on silverware. 

" Allen, Britain St Very nice. 

" Baillie, Carleton Good. 

Miss Buck ey, Duke St Good. 

Mrs. Benton, Main St Good. 

" Blotter, Elm St Good. 

" Black, 313 Princess St Splendid. 

" Belyea, Main St Very nice. 

" Boom, Indiantown Very good. 

" Bradley, Holly St Good for silverware. 

" Burke, Victoria St Good. 

" G. F. Black, Main St Good for windows. 

" Brookins, 76 Sheriff St Good for paint. 

" Burnham, Crown St Very good for brass. 

" Burges, Summer St Good. 

" Braden, Brunswick St Good for everything you want '- 'rsr, 

" Bowes, Brussels St Good. 

" Brewer, Harding St Good. 

" Clark, Duke St Very good. 

" Craft, Water St Good. 

" Cragie, Hawsin St Good. 

" Cavanaugh, Main St Good. 

" Collins, bimonds St Very good. 

" Coleman, Charles St Good. 

" Corey, Victoria St Good. 

" Curry, Indiantown Good. 

" Coster, West Side Good. 

" Cooper, Hilyard St Good. 

" Cunningham. s4 Irwin St Good on tin. 

" Coleman, St. Paul St Very nice, 

*' Clark, Exworth St Very good. 

" Cameron, Paddock St Good for knives. 

" Collins, Peter St Very good. 

" Carleton, i4CarletonSt, Good on paint. 

" Dvkeman, Duke St Best o'n silver of anything I ever used. 

" Dillon, Carleton St Very good. 

" Geo. Day, Adelaide St Good for stiver. 

" Doherty, Elm ,St Like it very much, better than any other. 

" Diver, do Lovely. 

" Donald, High St Very good. 

" Dowling, 173 Princess St Splendid. 

" Day, Indiantown Good. , 

" Dunham, St. John St. West. ...Very good. 

"■ Day, Simonda St ...Very good. 

" Dumiston, loCrownSt Good. 

" Dixon, Water St Good. 

" Dunen, 2i6 Sydney St Very good. 

" Evans, Indiantown Good on brass. 

" Edmunds, Brunswick St Good on silver. 

" Elderkin, Castle St Very good on silver. 

" Fritch, Main St Very good. 

" Foster, Victoria St Good. 

" French, Cedar St Very nice. 

" Eraser, Richmond St Good. 

" Floyd, 233 Waterloo St Very good. 

" Greens, Adelaide St Good on silver. 

" Ganong, Charlotte St. W Very nice. ' 

" Granville, Main St Good for glass. 

" Gilchrist, Elliott Row Nice on marble. 

" Gillespie, Chipman Hill Good. • ' 

" Gilson. Frederick St Very good. 

" Gifford, 137 Britain St Splendid. 

" Hodges, Duke St Good. 

" Harrington do 

" Higgins, Indiantown do 

" Harding, Lancaster St. W Yery crood. 

Miss Harrington Clarendon 5i Good for tin and silver. 



SILICO, the up to date cleaner. Try it. Only 10 cents per cake, 3 cakes for 15 cents. 



■%s^ 



SILICO STANDARD COOK BOOK. 



21 



41' 



^ 



PUDDING SAUCES. 

Cream Sauce (with wine). —One-quarter cup butter creamed with one- 
half cup powdered sujfar. Just before serving?, add two tablespoonfuls 
white wine, one teaspoonful vanilla, and two tablespoonfuls cream. 

Substitute for Cream.— Boil three-fourths of a pint of sweet milk ; 
beat the yelk of one c^^, and a level teaspoonful of flour willi sugar enough 
to make the cream very sweet. When the milk boils, stir this into it, and 
let it cool; flavor to taste. For puddings in which eggs are used, this is 
almost as good as rich cream, and preferable to thin cream. 

Excellent Pudding; Sauce. Two coffee-cups sugar, three-fourths of 
a coffee-cup of butter. Rub to a cream. When well mixed, stir in one-half 
tea-cup boiled cider, a little at a time. Just before serving, set in a kettle 
of boiling water until hot, but not boiling. 

Fruit Sauce. — Take one quart of any kind of ripe fruit, as red rasp- 
berries, strawberries, or peaches ; if the latter they must be very ripe. Pare 
and mash the fruit with a potato masher. AJd one tablespoonful of melted 
butter and one cup of powdered sugar. Stir well together, and set on the 
fire until warm. 

Hard Sauce.— One-half cup of butter well beaten ; stir in slowly one 
cup of fine sugar, and beat to a cream. Pile on a plate and grate over a 
little nutmeg. Keep cool. 

Lemon Sauce. — Three-fourths cup of sugar, one-half cup of butter, 
one egg, the juice and half the grated rind of one lemon, one teaspoonful 
of nutmeg, and one-half cup of boiling water. Cream the butter and sugar 
and beat in the egg, whipped light, the lemon and nutmeg. Beat hard, 
then add the water, put into a tin pail, and set within the uncovered top of 
the tea-kettle, which must boil, until the sauce is very hot, but not boiling. 
Stir constantly. 

PIES. 

Pastry. — One cup shortening, lard and butter mixed ; three cups flour ; 
a little salt. Sift the flour, add the salt, and rub in the shortening. Use 
enough ice-water to hold all together, handling as little as possible. Roll 
from you. One-third the quantity given is enough for one pie. 

Pastry with Balcing Powder.— One and one-half cups flour ; one 
saltspoon salt ; one saltspoon baking powder ; one-third to one-half cup 
butter and lard mixed. 

Real Puff Paste.— One pound of butter, one pound of flour ; wash 
the salj: out of the butter ; mix the flour with a little ice-water, and salt ; roll 
on the board and fold in the butter ; roll very thin and keep cool, cutting 
with a knife. 

Sliced Apple Pie,— Line a pie plate with pastry and fill with sliced 
tart apples. Sprinkle two tablespoonfuls sugar and grate a little nutmeg 
over the apples. Cover with a sheet of pastry with openings cut for the 
escape of steam. Wet the edge of the under crust before putting on the 
upper, and then pinch the two edges together. 

Lemon Pie.— Three quarters cup sugar, one teaspoonful flour, yelks 
of three and white of one egg, well beaten; the juice and grated rind of 
one lemon ; one-liuil cup ice-waler.. iiakc m a moucr.-itc ovcii,- anu 



rs cents. 



SILICO cleans everything, injures nothing. 



22 What SILICO'S Users Say of its Great Uslfulness. 



ST. JOHN, N.B., Continued, 

Mrs. Harper, Main St Good on silver. 

" Hoyt, j8 Crown St Good on silver. 

" Henderson, 20 HiVh St Very good. 

" Herman, 7 Mill St Good on silver. 

" Hoyt, Paradise Row Nice on silver. 

" Hill Very good. 

" Holt, Winter St Good on brass. 

" Henderson Very good. 

" Hamra, Prince St Good. 

" Hayes, Westmoreland Road.... Very good. 

" Hay, 41 Paddock St Very pood 

" Harrison, 33 Paddock Bt Just lovely. 

" Isaacs, Main St Very good. 

" Jescaw, St. John St Good. 

" Jones, 160 Queen St (iood on paint and tin. 

" King, Market Sq... ...Very nice. 

" Kilcher, Caileton St Good. 

" Keleher, CarletonSt do 

" Keilner, Main St do 

" Ketchum, 31 Coburg St Likes it. 

" King, West side Good. 

" Knowlton. 116 Elliot Row Very satisfactory. 

" Kane, RicnmondSt Good. 

" LegerC; Main St Vet y Good. 

" Thompson, Queen St. W Good. 

" Lyman.WalTst do 

" Lyon, Union St Verv Good. 

•' Leonard, City Road.... do 

" Lanchbe'!, 32 Paddock St Splendid on paint. 

" McLeod., Kingf St Very good indeed. 

" Magee, Adelaide St VerygooO. 

" Morrisey, North End Good. 

" McCavovir, 28 SimondSt Very good. 

" McAlister, Victoria St Good on lin. 

" McCavour, Guilford St. W Good on brass. 

" Moony, Indiantovvn Good. 

" McGovern, 171 Waterloo St. ...Very good. 

" McLaughlin, a Courtney St.. ..Splendid. 

" Mclntyre, Winter St Very good. 

" Melick, Celebration St Good. 

*' Mowat, Wellington Row do 

" Macdonald, CarletonSt Very good. 

" McCoy, Union St Very nice on tin. 

" McDonald, Brussels St Good on, tin and knives. 

" McNeill, Brussels St Very good. 

" J. McManu8,City Road Very good. 

" H. Moran, City Road Lovely on paint. 

" McDonough, 103 John St Good on tin. 

" Moiemy, City Road Good. 

" M. Moran, Britain St Good. 

" Merritt, 23 Peter St Good on tinware. 

" Nuthall, 'IS Clarence St Splendid on knives and sink. 

" Noble, 33(i"Un ion St Very good. 

" O'Connor, Cedar St Good on tin. 

" O'Hara, Camden St Good for silverware. 

" O'Brien, Germain St Good on knives. 

" Parsons, Duke St Very good for painted woodwork. 

" Power, 310 Princess St Good on brass. 

" Peters, Albert St Lovely. 

" Pitt, Holly St Good. 

" Price, Mam St Good on silver. 

Miss Quinn, HanisonSt Good on brass and tin. 

H'rs. Roberts, King St. W Very nice. 

' Reardon, Adelaide St Good. 

" Roberts. Cedar St... Very good. 

" Robson, St. George St. W Good for brass. 

•' Roberts, Metcalf St Good. 

Miss keenan. City Road Lovely for everything fine in the laundry. 

" Russell, 9 Peter St Pound it good. 

SILICO, cleans quickly but DOES NOT SCRATCH, 



i 



s. 



SILICO STANDARD COOK BOOK. 



23 



i 



ry. 



cover will) iiUMingiU" i>t" tlu; two whites ami ono-lialf cup powdered sujjar. 
Brown. 

Old Fashioned MInce-meat.— Take fmir pounds of tender beef, 
three pounds of suet, eit-lit pounds of chopped greenhi>f apples, three 
pounds of currants, washed, dried and picked ; three pounds of seeded 
raisins, six pounds of white sugar (brown will do), two pounds citron, cut 
thin ; the grating, juice and pulp of two large oranges ; the juice and 
grated rinds of four lemons ; one ounce of cinnamon, a quarter of an ounce 
each of cloves, mace atid allspice, the grating of four nutmegs, one quart of 
Madeira wine, one pint of brandy, a cupful of strawberry or raspberry jan> 
and quince preserves. Boil the meat in the smallest possible amount ot 
water ; chop very fine. After removing the tnemhrano from suet, dredge 
with flour and chop very fine ; mix it through the meat with salt to remove 
fresh taste. To this add the apples, the sugar, fruit, spice and other 
ingredients. A little sweet cider or molasses and plenty of salt must be 
added. This is not to ' e cooked. Half of this makes a large quantity. 

Orange Pie The juice and grated rind of two oranges, four eggs, 

four tablespoonfuls of sugar, one tablespoonful of butter. Cream the butter 
and sugar, add the beaten yelks of the eggs, then the oranges, and lastly, 
the whites beaten to a froth, and mixed in lightly. Bake with an under 
crust only. 

Peach Pie.— Line a pie plate with good pastry, and fill with peaches 
peeled and halved. Sprinkle the fruit with half a cup of sugar, and sift over 
one tablespoonful flour. If the fruit is not juicy, use less flour, and a few 
bits of butter. Bake until the peaches are done. 

Pumpkin Pie.- Pare and cut the pumpkin in small pieces. Cook 
slowly in about one-fourth as much water as pumpkin, six hours. When it 
has cooked four hours, add one-half cup molasses to three quarts raw 
pumpkin. When done rub through a sieve. For one large pie take two and 
one-half cups strained pumpkin, one pint boiling milk, one-half cup sugar, 
one teaspoonful salt, two teaspoonfuls cinnamon, a little grated nutmeg and 
two eggs. Let the mixture cook before adding eggs. Bake in open pastry 
shells, three-quarters of an hour. 

Squash Pie.— One pint of squash, three eggs, one and one-half table- 
spoonfuls of vanilla, a little nutmeg. Put the squash through a sieve, mix 
with a scant tablespoonful of corn-starch, and milk enough to make it soft. 
Add the other ingredients. This makes one large pie. 

DESSERTS. 

Charlot«.e Russe. - Soak one-quarter box gelatine m one-quarter cup 
cold water. Line a pint mould with lady fingers. Chill and whip one pint 
cream. Set bowl in ice water. Sift over the whipped cream one-third cup 
powdered sugar, add one teaspoonful vanilla and one tablespoonful white 
wine. Dissolve gelatine in one-quarter cup boiling water. Strain it into 
the cream and beat rapidly. When nearly stiff pour into moulds and set 
away to cool. 

Charlotte Russe No. 2. —One pound of lady fingers, one quart of 
sweet cream, three-fourths of a cup of powdered sugar, two teaspoonfuls 
of vanilla. Split and trim the cakes, and fit neatly in the bottom and sides 
of two quart moulds. Whip the cream to a stiff froth, after it has been 
sweetened and flavored ; till the moulds, lay the cakes closely logedier on 



SILICO, the up to date cleaner. Try it. Only lo cents per cake, 3 cakes for as cents. 



, _iiv,»i-»">;.-i::*:- 



24 WHAT SILICQ' S USEHS SAY OF ITS GREAT USEFULNESS. 

ST. JOHN, N.B., CoNOLuoeo. 

Mrs. Reed, 141 Britain St Good on lirass. 

" Risintf, 62 Queen St Very good on silver. 

" Spencer, Charlotte St Good. 

" Sharp, 4oLcin terSt Splendid 

" Seeley, 100 OmnRe St Very good. 

" Stewart, Dominion St Just lovely. 

" StauUhous.Cily Road Good forclothes. 

" Short, zaSt. David St Good on tin. 

" Shean, I'aradise Row Good. 

" Speight, Simonds Si Very good. 

" Sprague, Winter St Good. 

'* Scott, Waterloo St Good. 

" Sullivan, Hriiain St Very good. 

" Sears, 305 Prince William St ...Very nice.. 

" Toome'y, Carleton St Good. 

" Turner, Adelaide St Good. 

" Thompson, lag FMincess St . ...Very nice. 

" Tufts, Tower St. W Good. 

' Thomson, 168 Main St Good on marble. 

*' Unger, 297 Union St Heautiful for mirrors. 

" Urquhart, 74 Simon St Very nice on brass., 

" Vaughan, 171'i I'lincessSt Excellent. 

" Wood, Main Street Good on glass. 

" Walsh, Watson St. W Good. 

" Woods, 305 Princess St Good on brass. 

" Williams,Douglas Ave Splendid. 

" Wheaton, Bridge St Good. 

" Watson, Paddock St Very good. 

" Webb, loi Duke St Very nice. 

" Wetmore, 6CrownSt Very nice. 

" Wisdom, MeneSt Good. 

" Wilson, Pitt St Good. 

" Wilson, Queen St Very good. 

" White, Union St. W.. Very good. 

" Yeats, Carleton St Good. 

CHATHAM. N.B. 

Mrs. M. Ahearn Good. 

" liarry, St. Andrew St .Good. 

" Cassidy, St. John St Good. 

" Duflf, Kelly Row Good. 

" Forest, St. Andrew St Good. 

" Haines, Middle St Good. 

" Hacketc, Cunard St Good. 

" Holland Good. 

" Martin Very nice 

" McCallum, Cunard St Very good. 

" McDonald Good. 

" McNaught, DukeSt Goodonsilver 

" Parley Good. 

" Reed, St. John St Good. 

" Stewart, Duke St Good on knives and lamp globes. 

" Weaker Very nice. 

CAMPBELUTON, N.B. 

Mrs. Wm. Ffaser Good on glass and tin. 

""" Geo. Perch . Beautiful. 

" W.Savidant Delighted with it. ^ 

FAIRVILL.E. N.B. 

Mrs. Baxter Very nice. 

'■ Dunn Very good. 

" Kelly Very nice. 

" Linton Beautiful. 

" Martin Very good on glass. 

" McKinnon Lovely. 

•" G. Rccu Ooo.,,. 

" Stears Very good. 

" Tippet Very nice. 



1 



SILICO cleans everything, injures nothing. 



^^ 



SILICO STANDARD COOK BOOK. 



25 



1 

1 



the top, and set on ice till needed. The edges of the cake may be 
moistened with a Httle jelly, that the shape may be more easdy retamed. 

Baked Custard.— One quart of milk, four beattMi eggs, four table- 
spoonfuls of sugar ; flavor with lemon, vanilla or nutmeg j salt. Bake 
slowly, and do not let it remain too long in the oven. 

Custard Souffle. Rub two scant tablespoonfuls butter to a cream, 
add two scant tablespoonfuls flour. Pour over this gradually oije cup hot 
milk, and cook eight minutes in a double boiler, stirring often. Beat yelKS 
of four eggs, add two tablespoonfuls sugar, stir into the milk and set away 
to cool. Half an hi>ur before serving, beat whites ot four eggs stitt, anu 
add to mixture lightly. Bake in buttered pudding dish in a moderate oven 
thirty-six minutes. Serve at once. 

Bavarian Cream Whites of six eggs, beaten very light, one quart 

whipped cream, one ounce gelatine (soak one hour in cold water, drain and 
dissolve in a little hot water), flavor with one teaspoonful vanilla. Beat 
eggs and cream together, add sugar to sweeten, flavor^ then add K<;-lat'ne- 
Beat until it begins to thicken, and pour into moulds. Serve very cold with 
cream. 

Bohemian Cream One quart cream, two tablespoonfuls sugar, one 

ounce gelatine, dissolved. Whip half the cream to a stiff froth. Boil the 
other half with the sugar and a vanilla bean until flavor is extrac ed, or add 
vanilla extract after it is removed from the fire. Add the gelatine, and 
when cooled a little, the well beaten yelks of four eggs. Beat until it begins 
to stiffen, then beat in quickly the whipped cream. Pour in well wet moulds 
and set on ice. 

Russian Cream Four eggs, one cup sugar, one quart milk, o"e-half 

box gelatine dissolved in one pint warm water. Beat yelks of eggs, add 
sugar, cook with the milk like custard. Take off stove, add beaten whites, 
stir well for a few moments. Add gelatine and a teaspoonful strained lemon 
juice. Pour into well we^ mould, and set on ice to harden. Serve with 
whipped or plain cream. 

Spanish Cream One-half box of gelatine, one quart of milk, yelks 

of three eggs, one small cup of sugar ; soak the gelatine in the milk for an 
hour, then put on the fire and stir well as it warms; beat the yelks very 
light with the sugar, add to the scalding milk and heat to boiling point, 
«tirring all the time. Strain into a mould and flavor with vanilla. Sauce- 
Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, three tablespoonfuls of sugar, 
flavor with vanilla. 

Strawberry Cream Mash one quart strawberries with one cup 

powdered sugar, and rub through a hair sieve. Dissolve one and one-half 
• ounces gelatine in one pint sweet milk. Strain and add one pint whipped 
cream, and the berry juice. Pour in a wet mould, and set on ice to form. 
Another way.— One quart strawberries rubbed through a hair sieve, mix 
with three pints rich cream, and sweeten. Whip to a froth, add one-halt 
ounce dissolved gelatine. Serve in glasses. 

Fruit Ice Cream One generous pint milk, two cups sugar, one small 

tablespoonful flour, two eggs, two tablespoonfuls gelatine soaked in a little 
cold water, one quart cream, four bananas, half a pound candied cherries, 

. .. /' -^ -r j-^: ■ I .-I .>.:iu .^/>,v«o ♦<-> u Ui\\\ hf»at flnur. sucar and 

ana oincr iruii II uesiicu. i-m tt...r, ...i.s — _--■ . r- 

eggs together and stir in boiling milk. Cook twenty minutes, then add 



SILICO, deans quickly but DOES NOT SCRATCH. 



.Good for silver, 
do 



26 What SILICO'S Users Say of Its Great Usefulness. 

fredericton. n.b. 

Mrs. Alexander, Church St Good. 

" Hrown, Brunswick St do on brass. 

" Burkhardt Very good. 

" Beath, Brunswick Bt Very good. 

" Burdau, KingSt Very good. 

" Clark, Westmoreland Bt Good on silver. 

" Doran, Regent Bt do on glass and silver. 

" Dever, YorkBt do on windows. 

" Davies, Brunswick St.. Very nice. 

" Ferguson, King St Fine for everything. 

" Feeney, Brunswick Bt Good. 

" Golding, do Recommend it highly. 

" Hewev, St. John St Good for silver. 

" Harvey, York St do 

" Kelly, Charlotte St Lovelv on steel and tinware. 

Miss Keleher, King St Nice for tin. 

Mrs*. Loney, do 

" Lindsay, do 

" Mack, Queen St do 

" McCanoply, YorkSt do for cleaning hands. 

" Mackay, King Kt do 

" Pinder, Brunswick Bt do 

" Parker, King Bt Very good. 

" Bussey Very nice. 

" Taylor, Northumberland St Good on glass. 

" Vradenburgh, Brunswick St. ..Very nice. 

" Williams, Charlotte St Nice on silver. 

" Whittier, Regent St ■*... Very nice. 

" Wilson, Brunswick St Very good. 

MONCTON. N.B. 

Mrs. Anderson, Cornhill St Good. 

" Ayer.HighSt do 

" Bell.KingSt do 

" Bishop, Union St do 

" Crowhurst, Bridge St... do 

" Campbell do on silver. 

" Coggan, Union St do 

" Cameron do Very nice. 

" Dixon, Dominion St Good. » 

" Elliott, Westmoreland Bt do on knives. 

" Grant, Waterloo St do 

" GilfiUan, Bonaccord St do on tin. 

" Gunning, Union St do do 

" Hoar, Robinson St do do 

" Hains, Steadman St Excellent. 

" Higgins, Lutz Bt Good. 

" Keftli, Cornhill St do 

" Legere, Robinson St Very nice. 

" LeBlanc Good. 

" Philip LeBlanc, Robinson Bt... do 

" Langan, Harper Bt do on steel knives. 

" Legere, Steadman St do 

" Murray, Cornhill St do on windows. 

" McGuire do 

" Mitten, High St do 

" McDonald, Bt. George St Lovely. 

" McGee, Foundry St Good. 

" McLeod do for windows and silver, 

" McManus, Cross St do 

" Mclnnis, Telegraph St Very nice. 

" McAnn, Queen St Good. 

" McLeod, King St do for paint and windows. 

" McArdle, Robinson St do - 

" McDonald, Union St .... Very nice. 

*' Matthews, Gordon St Good. 

'■' MacLaren, Steadman St Very nice. , 

" O'Neil, Union St Good. ' 

" Prince, Archibald St do 

SILICO, the up to date cleaner. Try it. Only to cents per cake, 3 cakes for as cents. 



. .-^^^.-.^.-^t^. ^^i..iM . 



SII.ICO STANDARD COOK BOOK. 



27 



gelatine. When cold add cream. Put in freezer, freeze ten minutes, add 
cup of fruit, and finish freezing. 

Pineapple Ice Cream. Three pints cream, one pint milk, two ripe 
pineapples, two pounds sugar. Slice pineapples thin, scatter sugar over 
them, and let stand three hours. Cut or chop the fruit into the syrup, and 
strain through a bag of coarse lace. Beat gradually into the cream, and 
freeze. Remove a few bits of pineapple, and stir in cream when half frozen. 
Peach ice cream made in the same way is delicious. 

Vanilla Ice Cream.— Two quarts rich cream, one pint new milk, 
one pound sugar and one teaspoonful vanilla. Mix well and freeze. 
Another ivay —Put milk and one cut vanilla bean on fire and boil slowly. 
Strain through a wire sieve, and when cool add cream and sugar, and 
freeze. 

Frozen Milk Punch. — Freeze together one quart milk and one-half 
pound sugar. After the above is frozen, mix with it one-half pint rum, one- 
half pint brandy, one' and one-half pints whipped cream and half of a 
nutmeg. 

Lemon Ice.— One quart water, one tablespoonful corn-starch ; boil 
till all taste of starch is gone. Add the lemon (two large lemons to a quart). 
Sweeten to taste when the mixture is cold, and leave the rind in for awhile. 
Strain through a sieve and freeze. 

Junket.— Sweeten to taste one quart fresh milk, stir in one tablespoon- 
ful liquid rennet, and pour into glass dish. Set near the stove where it will 
get warm, and as soon as it begins to thicken, set on ice. Serve with 
preserves and cream. Excellent for invalids. 

Coffee Jelly. One-half box of gelatine, one pint of strong coffee, 
three-fourths of a pound of sugar ; pour the coffee over the gelatine ; when 
dissolved, stir in the sugar, add one-half pint of boiling water, strain into 
moulds and serve with whipped cream. 

Pineapple Sherbert.— One tablespoonful gelatine soaked in one cup 
cold water fifteen minutes. Dissolve with one cup boiling water. Take 
one-half can grated pineapple, and one and one-half cups sugar, juice of 
one lemon. Add strained gelatine, put in freezer, and pack with ice and 
salt and freeze* 

Frozen Peaches.— Take two quarts peaches, peeled and sliced, 
sprinkle with one pound of sugar and let stand two hours. Mash fine, add 
one quart cold water, and freeze the same as ice cream. 

Steamed Rice.^One quart of sweet milk, two-thirds of a cup of 
uncooked rice, and a little salt. Put into cups, set in a steamer over 
boiling water, and cook until the rice is almost like jelly. When cold turn 
out of the cups, and serve with sugar and cream or with pudding sauce. 

Strawberry Sherbert. — One quart of berries mashed ; sprinkle over 
these one pint of sugar, add the juice of one lemon, and a half pint of water 
in which has been dissolved a tablespoonful of gelatine. Freeze as you 
would ice cream. 

Syllabub.— One quart cream, whites of four eggs, one glass white 
wine, two small cups powdered sugar. Whip half the sugar with cream, 
the remainder with "eggs. Mix well, add the wine, and pour over sliced 
oranges and bananas sweetened., 



SILICO cleans everything, injures nothing. 



V, 



28 WHAT SILICO'S USEHS SAY OF ITS GREAT USEFULNHSS. 



MONCTON. N.B., Conoluomd. 

^f^^-yj^^^l^rson, Honaccord Kt Good. 

Peebles, Liitzht do 

Kowe, do f]„ 

" Stiles, Enterprise ht do 

'" Rmffr''ir^^'''S''''r,^' ••••■■'■• ''" ""Silver. 

Winlth, Foundry ht ... do 

» ^>*'"; «e«rsElmSt. ■..';.' do 

Inder, Lutes St do on everythinj,'. 

MILLTOWN, N.B. 

^.?-,9«<=hran Good for silver. 



^^«en do 

Hincky ^^ 

McKenzie "' do 



do 
do 



NEW GLASGOW. N.B. 

^"•M''''T'„"'"i''^,'-' ^' G""d on silver. 

Marshall, Arch St do 

" Wolfe .'..■.■ Very nice. 

NEWCASTLE. N.B. 

Mrs. Donovan Good. 

Jvoud ^(^ 

" McCullem '^ 

" Reed :::::::;::::::: ^.. 



ST. STEPHEN. N.B. 

Mrs. Cameron Very good. 

" Lf^:::;::::::::::::::::::::: ^-Sgn^w 

" McLaughlin do 

Murray do 

Ryder do 

Irainor v„^„ 



Mrs, 



Miss 



.Very nice. 
WOODSTOCK. N.B. 

CoSrtne^BroidwavSr ''r'^"" "'^'''J'^' ^'"'"^ '^"^ ^in. 

DonneUv do ^ h" ?" windows and silver. 

Drysdale.: !^" ^^ ^""^ J«^'=^'-y. 

Fleming ." do 

Gray, Cbnnell St.. do for tin. 

t!Z*o^J'°**'"* ^* ^''^^^ f«'- si'ver and glass. 

Johnston Good. * 

Kennedy, Broadway Bt Nice on tin and knives. 

i;f^ ••; Nice for windows. 

Munn Broadway St Good for windows. 

McAffee, Green bt Very nice. 

Sanders do 

Kaunderson, Cedar St Good. 

Williams, Broadway St do on silver 

^^^"^"■J^*"^"^" ^"^ do on marble. 

White, Elm St do on brass. 



HALIFAX. N.S. 

Mrs. E. Auld,Veith St Good 

'; Austin, 124 Argyle St Veiygood. 

Burton, Veilh ^t Good on tin and silver. 

.4 J- Brodte, Union St Very nice on silver 

Barnstead. Lockman St Vf>rv «rnnfi ^n a^ ..■^a „si, 

" Bowman, liloomtield St Good Vn tin." 

Barnstead, Cunnrd i-ti Very good 

" Baker, Dresden Row Very good 



SILICO, cleans quickly but DOES NOT SCRATCH. 



SILICO STANDARD COOK BOOK. 



29 



Tapioca Ice. - One cup of tapioca soaked over .ught ; m the "';» ' ^^^ 
put it oil the stov.', and when boihii^ l>ot add one cup ^^^ ^^K^ir- juid b 1 H 
clear ; chop one puieapple, pour the tapioca over it, sl.r together, and put 
into moulds. When cold serve with sugar and cream. 

Lemon Tarloca. -Two tablespoonfuls of tapioca soaked over "'}<»'*'" 
one-half cup of eld w.iler. In the morning add one-half a cup .. o 
water and the pcelec! rind of o.ie lemon Set on the stove and bod unli 
dear ?ake out^he rind, .add the juice of th. lemon, and one teaspooniu 
ofTemon extract, one-half cup of* sugar, one-halt cup ot b^'! ■"^',,^!;';'; '^ 
little salt, and boil up. Put in a mould to cooK and serve with sugar and 
cream. 

Fruit Tapioca.— Two tablespoonfuls of tapioca soaked over "'KIi' '" 
a little water ; in the morning add one-half cup of sugar, one pint o indk^ 
one egg. Heat the milk, add the tapioca and bod twenty n mutes ; b ' ^ ' " 
velk of the etfij, sugar, two teaspoonfuls of flour, and a litlle salt s n into 
fhe milk and^xVil five minutes. Pour into a dish, beat the white of the egg 
with one and one-half tablespoonuiLs ot sugar, spread ov.^r tht: top, a d ^a 
in the oven a few minutes. Pare and slice ban.mas, P'"=^^-b^;%"'". X'f?^,?; 
lay in the bottom of a glass dish and sprinkle with sugar. Wetaknitc, slip 
around the edge of pudding to loosen, and lay over the truit. 

CAKE. 
AnKCi Cake.— Whites of eleven eggs, one and one-half cupa granu- 
lated sugar sifted once, one cup flour sifted with one t«^«P°«"f"»;!:^^f /" "f 
tartar four times, one teaspoonful vanilla Bake in an ungreased pan forty 
minutes. When done invert pan on two cups and let stand until cake is 
cold. 

Marbled Chocolate Cake.— One-half cup butter and one cup sugar 
beaten to a cream, one-half cup sweet milk, one and one-halt cups flour; one 
feaspoon baking powder. whitL of four eggs added last. Jake one cup ot 
this mixture, add to it five tablespoonfuls grated chocolate wet with milk 
and flavor with vanilla. Put a layer of white batter in cake pan, drop the 
chocolate batter with a spoon in spots ; pour over the remaining white 
batter, and bake. Ice with chocolate icing. 

Citron Pound Cake.— Three-quarters pound butter rubbed to a cream 
with one pound sugar. Add first the beaten yelks of eight large or ten 
small eggs, then one pound flour, the beaten whites^ of the eggs and last, 
one.and one-quarter pounds finely sliced citron slightly dredged with floar. 
Bake one and one-half or two hours. 

Pound Cake.— Yelks of ten eggs, whites of two well beaten. One 
pound butter, one pound sugar, one pound flour one and one-half teaspoon- 
fuls baking powder, one cup milk. Add flour and whites last. 

Delicate and Fruit Cake. -Cream three-quarters cup butter with two 
cups sugar. Add one cup sweet milk, two and one-half cups flour, two 
teaspoonfuls baking powder, whites of five eggs. I lavor w. h lemon juice. 
Take four large tablespoonfuls of this and add spices to suit and one cup 
raisins, one-half cup sliced citron dredged with flour, or one-half cup 
. ' . .'_n a ,.,ui, f....;» Rcilr.» on.> In vor of dark mixture 

and two of white in flat square tins, and put together with boiled icing-the 
dark layer in the middle. 

SILICO, the up to date cleaner. Try It. Only lo cents per cake. 3 cakes for .5 cent*. 



y What SILICO'S Usehs Say of Its Ghhat Ushfulness. 



^^1 



l1 ! 



?4 

'id' 

i 



HALIFAX, N.S., CoMOLuomo. 

Mrs. BowHer, TowerRoad Like it 

" HninkiT, 34 Albeinurl© Ht do 

' Hlrd, Oufon Ht do 

' Cunn.lJnion Kt Good on t'li. 

Cttmubtll, Lockiimn St do on liruHH. 

" CurtiH, i.)i HiiriiiiKton Kt ...Very good. 

Crowfll Kin^r ami Oucen Kt8 .. do 

" Cttinell, Tower Komi Good for tin and wood. 

" Crowley, 19 Ar^'ylc Kt Very >food. 

Drake, Dartmouth Good for mirrorn and L'lusswiiro 

pnf";t' ^""inKen Kt Tried it and likes It wd'"' 

Elliott, Dresden Row Good. 

" Feethani, Hanover Kt do on tin 

" KitZKer, 106 Ar^yle Kt Very nice. 

" Glas.sy, CreiKliton Ht Good on silver, tin, wood and steel 

Gorman, =, Prince Ht Like it on silver. ''''"''""" «l^e'- 

Henry, Kouth Park Ht Good. 

" Herman, Dresden Row do 

" HutchinRs, 142 Queen Kt Very nice on flllver. 

' Kennedy, Greene Ht Very good. 

Martin, Dartmouth Excelfent on paint, Rlass und silver 

Menleahy, Lockman Ht Good on tin and silver. 

" MacGowan, Bloomfleld Ht Good for silver 

Mackenzie Dartmouth... Beautiful for silver and windows. 

Mf '^tti'^rhlin, CreiRhton Ht Good for tin and dishes. 

*' Misener, VVentworLh Ht Very nice. 

*' Murphy, Birmin«ham Ht Lovely for everythinjr. 

Macdonald, yueen Ht Like it. 

" Maldwell, do Very good 

" Alurchy, 58 George St Kplendid for tinware. 

Owen, Dartmouth Very nice 

" Osborne, 14 Albemarle St Good on tin. 

" Ritchie, Birmingham St do 

•; Reynolds. Ingles Ht do on silver and brass. 

Holes, Veith St do 

" tftiow, Creighton St do for brass. 

S^y?'°l,""'o."^'' > , Like it for spoons. 

Sanford, Birmingham St Like it. 

'• Kcanlan, Queen Ht do 

" Hinfield, 61 Brunswick St Good on tin. 

.. 'i^^^K^^' 9" lV/'"*'"^'^5'? *** ...Better than brick dust for knives. 
" Thompson, BloomfieldHt <iood on silver. 

rremaine, Birmingham St Like it. 

Vossnack, Greene fit Very good 

" w*"'r"2rV U"'o" ^t Good on silver and glass. 

Ward, King ht do spoons. *' 

Wanacote, liottingen St Like it. 

Wrayton, Queen Ht Very good. 

A.^iHERST, IM.S. 

Mrs. Arthur, Edie St Very nice 

" I. A. Black Good. 

" Caldwell do 

" Chapman ... do 

" Courtney do 

" Dryden, Palmer St do 

" Baton, Edie Kt do 

" Fowler do 

I' Gremley '.'.'.'..'.'.'.'.'. do 

Kaiser do 

" Hillcoat do 

" McLean do 

" Mcintosh do 

" G. L. Moss do 

" AMtchell, Albion St ' do 

" Nicole do 

"■ Roberts do 

" Rodger do 

" D. F. Tingley do 



on silver, 
for tloors. 



on tin. 



on brass. 



SILICO cleans everything, injures nothing. 



^-f^ 




SILICO STAN'DAWD COOK BOOK. 



31 



FlK Caice. -One and i)iu- half cups suK.ir, oni'-ljalfi-up bultor, ono-half 
cupsw?-.a n.ilk. ono and o.u-l.alf cups Hour, one U.a.poo..lul haku.K puw^^^^^^^ 
one-half cup corn-slaich. whitos i>f six o^k**. Hako .n two lavi-rs a.ul II 

wator!^ Stew until soft and smouth. Spread between the layers, and .ce 
ti»e whole cake witli boiled icing. 

Weddinz Fruit Cake. -Two pounds raisins, stoned, two pounds 
curran* on^pound sliced citron, a iZ f>gs cut in s.n d b.... W ove 
this one Koblet sherry and port wu,e and one-h.ilt gobUa ^ ."u y r 
whiskey Let stand over niKlU, and in the mornn.g po.u- oft whit liquor 
ha not"^ soaked into the frui?.%Iix one pound Gutter .M-ean.-d. one pound 
suirar, yelks of twelve beaten e^Rs, two tablespoonfuls n,.ice. o m^ tat I ^ 
spoonful cinnanu,n. two K-ted nutnu^s. one P-'-V^.J;^oo:X^od in a 
whites of e^K^ •^'^'^'''^ aliernately. Dissolve one teaspoonful ^'"''^ '" » 
nttle water, add just before putting in the fruit. Mix wUh the hands. Bake 
slowly. 

Hickorv-nut Cake. One cup of butter rubbed to a creain, with two 
CUPS suearone-h.-Uf cup sw.et milk, three cups flovu-. one teaspoonh. 
bS.,;^;wd::- whites Jf eiKht^K^s. .uuAone V^f.;--^^^y:;;^^''^^;^ 
half nuts and half raisins. Add flour and beaten whites alternately. LJieUge 
the nuts slightly with flour. 

Ice Cream Cake. -One cup butter rubbed with two cups white 
suga'to a trcTu,. ".e cup sweet n^Hk. three and one IwvU -!« flour, two 
tP-isnoonfuls bakine powder, and whites of eight eggs. ».iki m ji ny 
Ih^and put together with bJiled icing flavored with orange, a.ul spread on 
thick. 

Dnii l»llv Cake —Three eea^s ; the yelks beaten with one cup c* 

remove from pan and lay on a c oth, we with cnlu wate.. Spread with 
jelly and roll quickly. Sprinkle with ^lowdered sugai . 

Nut Cake Mix two cups of sugar and one-half cup of butter togetWer ; 

Nut CaKe. M X ^wo c p one . -up of sweet milk, two teaspoonfuls of 
Saing ^oS^^'^tlfteVr tl^ee' cups of flour, two cups of hickory nuts not 
chopped. Flavor with vanilla. 

a S dish fo?L»sert. Half the quaatily U enough for small cake. 

eniea Cuke -One cup bolter, one and one-half cups brown sugar, 
vemfS'flvft'gs, ?ne cup" .wcel ndlk. throe cups flour, -» ,^asp.«n.uU 

li^SaW",tireTiist:r;r;::,"ks;uVSgLr;wiu;ici^^^^^^ 



"siLICO. cleans quickly but DOES NOT SCRATCH. 



32 What SILICO'S Users Say of Its Great Usefulness. 



ANNAPOUS, /V.S. 

Mrs. Joffersoti Nice on dn. 

" !<• J- Kiley Lovely on mirrors, silver and painted vrood.' 

DIGBY. N.S. 

Mrs. Dakin Good on silver. 

" hiurshall do do and tin. 

" i\lci{ridc do on rIuss. 

" B. A. Oakes do silver. 

KENTVILLE. N.S. 

Mrs. Avery Ver}' good. 

" Frizzell Good on tin. • 

" John I'^ancutt Splendid. 

" E. McDonald Good. 

" Redden \ery good. 

" Kate Redden Splendid on brass. 



SPRINGHILL, N.S. 

3^1 rs. Fox Good for windows. 

do silver. 



Giles 
Glencross 
Martin 



do 
do 



windows and tin. 
do do silver. 



TRURO. N.S 

Mrs. J L Rarnhill, Queen St.. Good on glass. 

" Douglass do 

" C. Caudle do 

" Dakens do 

" John Jack do 

" Lackford do 

" Macdonald do 

" Geo. McCurdy do 

" McLean do 

" Murrav do 

" B. McDowell do 



on silver. 



on spoons, 
on marble. 

on windows 
silver. 



YARMOUTH. N.S. 

Mrs. Bain, John St Good on mirrors and silver, 

R.Crosby do 

'^' Dunn, Main St Very nice. 

!! i^. Doan Good on jiots and knives. 

! Si^Srar do on silver. 

Gibson, MiltonSt Verygood. 

" Goucher, MiltonSt Good. 

" Holland do on tin. 

" Hask ... Just lovely. 

" Hood, MiltonSt Good. 

" Lorrey do . ' 

'' Jia'"'^'ii- ■; do ontin. 

" Moore, Milton Bt do 

" Pelton, Cliff Kt Very good. 

Shand, Hawthorne Pt Good on tin 

" Smith, Hawthorne St " 



on brass and paint. 



CHARLOTTETOWN. R.E.I. 

Mrs. Wm. Brown, Bayfield St Good on silver and brass. 

Wm. Brown, Olibar St do 

" Bruer, King St do 

" Court, Bayfield St do 

" Clarke, do 'lery nice. 

" Crosman, Hillsboro St Good. 

" Caldwell, Kinij St do 

" Des Roches, Queen ! t do 

" James Dewar, Kent ^.t do 



for scrubbing floors and general cleaning, 
on paint, brass and windows. 



SILICO, the up to date cleaner. Try it. Only lo cents per cake, 3 cakes for «rs cents 



»»»?i^^3s; 



t^imimttmu V''"''"" ' "" Mwim t wrow wpw 



SIKICO STANDARD COOK BOOK. 



33 



Boiled Sponge Cake.-Six ogK^. Bo:it wl.itos first, thi-n add yolks 
and beat very liRht. Three-quaitcMS pound K'anul^iU'^ suKar. one-halt 
^ounS Sour, one^KiH water, juue of one le.r.on. Hod -^-;: --/^ - 
Together until clear, ponr into heaten eKRs, beat.nj;- ^^'f "'.;'': ^ij 
add flour and lemon juiee. Make in square sheets, and cove, ^^^^h boilcU 

icing. 

Cookies. -Two cups sugar, one cup butter, three.t\>urths ^'"P -^weet 
milk, two eggs, five cups flour, two tablgspoonfuls bakmg powder. Koll 
thin and bake quickly. 

Soft Cookies.— One heaping cup butter, one and one-lialf cups sugar, 
two e^es whiles and yelks beaten separately, three tablespoontu s sour 
SSfe small teaspoonful soda (dissolved) and as little flour as w.ll make 
them stiff enough to' roll. Sprinkle with sugar and grated nutuu-g betore 
cutting, pass over roller, cut and bake a light brown. 

Thin Rich Cookies. -One cup of butter, one cup of sug.ir, three 
eggs all b.^ten together to a cream, use just enough flour to nux and roll 
thin. 

CocoanutCookies.-One cup butter, one cup of sugar, two eggs, one 
cup gr3 cocjiunu, two teaspoolifuls baking powder, flour enough to roll. 
Roll very thin, bake quickly but do not brown. 

Crullers -One cup sugar, one tablespoonful butter, two eggs, one cup 
rich svv"t milk ;hree'cul;s flour mixec^ with two toaspoontuls bakmg 
powder, one teaspoontul salt. 

GInjEer Snaps.-One-half cup butter, one cup sug.ir, one cvip "'^''f;f«f ' 
one "b"fspo?nful ginger, two teaspoonluLs baking powder, and flou. enough 
to make stiff to roll. 

Dnchester Ginger Snaps.— One cup of molasses, one cup of sugar, 
Rochester ungcr.^ one teaspoonful of cinnan.on, one teaspoontul 

one heapmg ^"PJ^^^f of " oda. %oil this together for five to e.ght 
gmger o e t-a^poont^l o ^^^^^ ^^^^^^ ^^^^^ ^K ^^^.^^ 

olirS wide. ;;^'f:^.r"or more i.jches long. Bake on floured tms .n a 
quick oven. The shape is a distinctive feature. 

Soft Glnzerbread.-One small half cup butter, one and one-half cups 
soft ";"8®^^^^^^ t,,,ee cups flour, one tablespoonful ginger, 

:;t^:^^^^^^^ aiid chlnamon, one-half cup sweet milk. 

and one and one-half teaspooniuls baking powder. 

Cnnno-e Olnserbread.— Mix one cup of molasses, one-half cup of 

beaten, and flour to make like pound cake. 

Hickorv-nut Kisses. -Whites of six eggs beaten stiff one pound 
t . Ml .L ir tvTO tablespoonfuls flour, and one pound h.ckory-nut 
Ker Dr"fp on Tm ^Suere'd tins, and bake in a moderate oven. 

Rniled Iclne.-Boil one cup granulated sugar with four tablespoon- 

I - -_1- UA^ wumi_ 

Flavor, sprc.ic. un t_^.-.Tr >t .._.-.. 



SILICO cleans everything, Injures nothing. 



34 What SILICO'S Users Say of Its Great Usefulness. 



CHARLOTTErOWN. P.E.I., Conoludbo. 

Mrs. Dewar, Queen St do 

» ?'^"7j%"'/Vi.,. ^o on windows. 

J. Field, Bayfield St do 

" S'"'"*?';'- ^1?'„^l ii r.^" for kitchen utensils. 

l^,r«nklin, HillsboroSt Elegant for windows. 

Gardner, Grafton St ...Good. 

" J. Hughes, Kent St do for windows. 

Hoban, Kent St do 

" James Hughes, Richmond St. do for silver 
" Halloner, Fitzrove M dp 

!.' ?--J;M^^^;,?^y'^''''^,^* do for general cleaning. 

J. Mills, Richmond St . do 

" J. Moore, do 

" N, 



for windows. 

on glass and stains in cloth. 

for everything. 

on silver, glass and tin. 

on brass. 



do 

Murphy, do do 

Thos. Mills, Kent St do 

" McDonald, Euston St do 

yiss May, Olibar St do 

JN.is.McNeil, Richmond St do 

" McLaren, Cumberland St do 

" Mc.VIillan, Richmond St do 

!! ^JcMillan, Fitzroye St Just lovely for everything. 

" Mehar Verv good. 

Nelson. Sydney St Good for brass. 

Nowler Fitzroye St do on tin and silver. 

Percifal, Kent St do on silver. 

" H. Sterns, Kent St do 

" Mabel Tomlins, Richford Sq .. do 
" Turner, Grafton St do 



for stains on the hands. 

on silver. 

,,, ■ ^ , — on clothes. 

Wonnacotte, Oreat George St do on silver 

1 hos. White, Kent St Nice for brass and windows. 



SUMMERSIDE, P.E.I. 

Mrs. Allen Good for copper. 

Airs do 

" Forsyth do for windows. 

" Frizzle , do 

" (jreen Very nice. » 

fjoss Good. 

.. ?">?.e'"son Nice on windows. 

Sullivan Lovely. 

" Woodside Good. 



Toronto, Ont., Oct. 3rd, 1894. 
I have had experience with all scouting, cleaning and polishing articles in the 
market, i find "i ilico" by far the best I have ever used. For use on polished 
metals, finished or painted wood, plain floors, marble and glass it fills a long felt 
want. 

Yours truly, 

THOS. McBEAN, 
Caretaker Massey Music Hall. 



Chateau Frontenac, Quehkc, April 6th, 1894. 
We are using your " Silico," purchasing it through Messrs. Whitehead & 
Turner of this city, and appreciate its cleansing powers. 

Yours very truly, 

FRANK U. STANTON, 

Manager. 



SILICO, cleani quickly but DOES NOT SCRATCH. 



SILICO STANDARD COOK BOOK. 



35 



Soft Frosting.- Olio cup {^ramil.iled sujjfar, one-half cup mtlk. Let 
boil uiilil it drops from spoi>ii in strings. l't>iir into a bowl, and '^j'" V'»e 
teaspoonful flour. Beat a few nion\ents, and let stand until cool and thick 
enough to spread on cake without running. 

Corn Muffins.— One pint of flour, one of Indian meal, one-third cup 
full of sui,'ar, one teaspoonful soda, two of cream tartar, two eggs, pint 
milk, one' tablespoonful melted butter. Mix the dry ingredients, l^ike 
twenty minutes in buttered muffin pans. This will make two dozen muffins. 

riary's Pop Overs.— One egg, white an. I yelk separate, one teaspoon- 
ful sah, cup milk, cup flour. Bake twenty minutes in hot oven. 

Pancakes.— One pint sour milk, one egg, one teaspoonful soda, one 
leaspoonful butter, pinch salt, flour to make stiff". 

Waffles. -Two eggs beaten, one cup milk, one tablespoonful butter, 
pinch salt, flour enough to make stiff" for batter, one heaping teaspoonful 
baking powder. This will make for four persons. 

Graham Muffins.- One and a half pints graham flour, sifted dry with 
three teaspoonfuls of baking powder, rub in tablespoonful ot butter, salt, 
one beaten egg, one-half cup sugar, stir with cool sweet milk to a batter. 
Drop into gem rings, and bake in hot oven. 

nuff Ins.— Butter size of an egg, pinch salt, two eggs, two teaspoonfuYs 
baking powder, two cups sifted flour, half cup sugar, one cup milk. Butter 
and eggs together. 

BREAD. 

Bread.-For four loaves, peel and boil four medium sized potatoes in 
one quart of water. When done mash and stir the water and potatoes 
togetterVlet cool slightly and add enough flour to make a st.ff batter, and 
one tab Lpoonful of salt, one of sugar, and one cake of yeast «o^ked m 
one pint of water. Let rise until morning in a warm room, add flour 
enoueh to knead, let rise again and make into loaves When sufficiently 
fight bake in a moderate oven from one-half to three-fourths of an hour. 
When done brush the loaves over with melted butter 

Bread.-Dissolve yeast in luke warm water, let every particle dissolve, 
add half tablespoonful salt, two tablespoonfuls sugar, ""^.P""^. "J;« ;^ff;;"J 
water. Mix well. Mix tea cup flour and one and a half tablespoonfuls 
melted lard, thoroughly mix, add one pint luke warm water and flour 
enough to make soft dough, knead well half an hour. Make in loaves and 
set hf warm place over night. In the morning knead well half an hour, 
add ng little flour as it sticks to board Divide into four loaves, grease Pan 
and set in warm place for an hour until raised. Bake one hour and fifteen 
minutes. 

Jessie's Corn Bread. -One large cup sugar, half cup lard or good 
dripping, two eggs, one cup flour, two cups yellow corn meal, one cup sweet 
milk, two teaspoonfuls baking powder. . . 

aems.-One pint flour, one pint milk, one egg, half teaspoonful salt, 
beat the egg until light, add the milk and salt, beat gradually into the 
a- ._ r._i?„ *.„»«♦„ .^:«,.t« in hot irem oans. A dozen cakes can be made 

!iuu:. ua.n-.- • '••••^j — " 

from this quantity. 



SlLlCO, the up to date cleaner. Try It. Only lo cents per cake, 3 caket for as cents. 



36 What SII.ICO'S Ushhs say ok Its Cheat Usi:Fulk[-:ss. 



MONTREAL, QUE. 

Mrs. Ayliner, 75 St. Mark St Good. 

" Afrnew, 496 Seijfiieur St do. 

Adelis, 10^ Univeisity St do. 

" Herry, Hurnside Place do. 

" Hirk.s, io9Mackay St (lood for windows 

BoyU, 179 Versailles St I'.ood on bia s 

" Byrne, loOverdaleSt tiood. 

" Hurk, 2i2Peel St do. 

" Hlakeley, 4154 SbcrbrookeSt... do. 

" Hrown.St UrtainSt do. 

" Barwick, ManceSt Verv j'ood. 

" Bent, Chs. harroine St do.' 

" Bessin, Chs. Bariome St do. , .■• 

" Broms, EdwardSt Good. 

" Banks, Chs. Barrome St do. 

" Blacall, iUnthelet St do. 

" Caitwright, 62oSt. JamesSt... do. 

' Costi^an,St. UrbainSt do. 

" Coleman, St. Urhain St do 

Mr, Cunning-, St. Urbain St do 

Airs. 1). Corbet, St. Urbain St ,. do. 

" Clark, lialinoral St do 

" Chapman, Philip St Very good. 

" Callan, Philip St.... do 

" Curran, Major St .. Good 

" p. Coughlan, BertheletSt .... do.' 

.. M; ,I^"*We, 148 Pearl St Very nice on silver. 

Dickson, 13 Torrance t^t Good, 

'Vl^ecker, Chs. Barrome St do. 

' Deguise, Mance St Very good. 

' pryden, George St Good. 

Dunn, Anderson St Very eood 

;| L. Elliott, George do 

" Fisher, 4300 St. Catherine St. ..Good on metaK- 
R. Hynn,Chs. BaiTonie St. . .Good. 

Forsyth, St. Urbain St do. 

.'! A. Fitzgerald, Chs. Barrome. Very good. 

G. Kawcett, Philip St do 

" Flood, Brunswick St do 

'" Finnic, Bleury St Good. 

Miss J-ennell, Laganchetiere St. . . . do. 
Mrs. telix, Lagauchetiere St.. . do 

" Gahan, Vallee, St do' 

u iJ'ttham, CathcartSt Verv good. 

K. drier, Andenson St .. . do 

'' </i''"o>'. City Councillor St do.' 

Henry, III Stanley St Good 

'' W. Hill, BalmoralSt Verv good. 

Hammond, St. Urbain St. Good 

.. Henry St. Urbain St Very good. 

.. ^,' Holland, Dorchester St .. .Good. 

iioban, I Major .St do. 

" Ireland, Balmoral St do. 

" Jacob.son, St. Dominique St. .. do. 
M. Jackson, St. George St . do 

" Jones, St. Urbain St Verv good. 

Kerr, Balmoral St (Wx/d 

" E. Kerr, ht. Urbain St H.-icfllcnt 

'' Kerry, City Councillor St Good. 

H. Livermore, Dorchester Ave. do 
" Longhand, City Councillor St. do. ' . 

Lowes, Major Sf ...Verygood. 

J/ester, 105 University St <lo 

" Laviere, St. Urbain St do 

" M. Morrison, Church St Good. 

H. Martin, Ontario Street do.: 

'' F. Mooy, Balmoral at Verygood. 

Martineau. Dorchester St. ,\,V 

Meicier, Chs. Barrome St (iood 

" M. McCarthy, Philip St Verygood 



SILICO cleans eyerytliing, injures nothing. 



SILICO STANDAKD COOK BOOK. 



n 



Brown Bread.— Two coffoo cups sweet milk, oiio-halfcup New Orleans 
inolassos, Olio teuspoonlul soda (level) dissolved in dress of molasses, one 
le.-ispoonful salt, four coffee cups brown flour. Steam three hours, bake tor 
one hour. 

Boston Brown Bread.- One even cup of Indian meal, two heaping 
cups of rve nu-al, one teaspoonful of salt, one teaspoonful of soda, one ctip 
of molasses. Mix very thorou^'hly together the me.il, salt and soda. Add 
one pint of hoi water to the mol.isses and stir ; pour the molasses, and 
water, into the middle of the meal, and stir till a smooth batter. 1 ut in a 
buttered tin boiler, cover tightly, and set in a covered iron kettle to boil 
three hours, adding water as may be necessary. When done set the breaa 
boiler in the oven for ten minutes. 

Grahain Puffs.-Beat one egg thoroughly, then add one pint sweet 
milk, one pint graham Hour, and a pinch of salt. Beat all briskly with egg 
beater, pour in hot greased gem pans, and bake in hot oven. 

Corn Bread. -Two cups corn meal, one cup flour, two tablespoonfuls 
melted butter, one teaspoonful salt, two teaspoonfuls b.iking powder, two 
eggs well beaten, one pint sweet milk. Bake in shallow tins. 

Oatmeal Gems.- One pint cooked oatmeal, one pint sweet milk, four 
tablespoonfuls sugar, two beaten eggs, one teaspoonful salt, ^^o JabU;- 
spoonfuls melted butter, t"o teaspoonfuls baking powder, and enough 
hour to stick together. Bake in hot gem pans in quick oven. 

Buckwheat Cakes. -Two teacupfuls buckwheat flour, one teacupfuj 
wheat flour, four teaspoonfuls baking powder, one teacuptiil salt. Mix all 
together, and add sufficient sweet milk or water to make a soft batter. 
Bake on griddle at once. 

Indian Pancakes.- One pint Indian meal, one teaspoonful salt, 
mixed with enough boiling water to make a little thinner than triush. 
wJen cool add tlTe yelks of four eggs, half a cup flour t'^-^ with three 
teaspoonfuls baking powder, enough sweet milk to "^^'V' j'^"';'^ ^^.^"^^ 
grtddle cakes, and the beaten whites ot lour eggs, added just before 

baking. 

Batter Cakes.-One quart flour, three teaspoonfuls baking powder, 
three eetcs, whites and yelks beaten separately, one quart sweet mi k, one 
taWespSonful melted butter, a little salt. Add whites last. Bake at once. 

Griddle Cakes.— Three cups flour, two teaspoonfuls baking powder, 
one teaspoonful salt. Mix well and add two well beaten eggs. Add 
enough sweet milk to make a soft baiter, and bake at once on a well 
greased griddle. . 

PICKLES. 

Tomato Catsup.-Take one peck tomatoes, cut out the stem crid, and 
put iwiT'cel^vin lined kettle. One tablespoonful each salt ground black 
Kepper powdered cloves, and celery seed, one teaspoonful <^yennf - ^"J 
ha f pound ground mustard. Boil the tomatoes until very sott, then rub 
hrouSi a colander first and a sieve after. Put on the stove with other 
needieis (celery seed tied in a muslin bag) and boi six hours. . Stir occa- 
L"fnally intil last hour, then almost constantly. Pour into a ^tonejar and let 
stand until perfectly cool, then add one pmt -t-ong vinegar.^ Remove the 
celery seed, lneu bouie, cook and sea!, rs^eep m .» J-'-^r.. p.ace. 



SILICO, cleans quickly but DOES NOT SCRATCH. 



.IP 



38 WHAT SILICO'S USERS SAY OF ITS GREAT USEFULNESS. 

MONTREAL, QUE., ComCLMOmo. 

Mrs. T. E. Morton, Cathcart St do. 

" A. Murphv, Georjfe do. 

" Martin, George St do. • 

" Mitchell, La^auchetiere St .(ioocl. 

" Mullen. Mance St .Splendid. 

" A. Martin, St. Martin Good on tin 

" Moore, St. Urbain (iood. 

" Montgomery, Major St Very good. 

" Malone, 93 university St Very good. 

" Merrill, 52 Victoria St do. 

" McClure, 72 Victoria St do. 

" McDougal, 30 Victoria St do. 

" Note, BalnioralSt Good. 

" Norton, Vallee St do. 

" Nelson, Lagaucheticre St do. 

" O'.Shay, Balmoral St do. 

" Owen, St Urbain St do. 

" O'lnarity, St. Urbain St do. 

" T. Overton, St. Urbain St Very good. 

" O'Grady, Vallee St Good. 

" O'Donoghue, Vallee St do. 

" Patterson, Alexander St Very; od. 

" Pick, Cathcart St do. 

" I. Peacock, EdvirardSt Good. 

" Penny, Platteau St do. 

" Parker, Balmoral St Very good. 

" F. Pratt, Church St Splendid. 

" Patterson, St. Urbain St Good. 

" M. Pigeon, St. Antoine St.. . do. 
" Porteous, 275981. Catherine St. do. 

" Regein, Lagaucheticre Bt Very good. 

" Rogus, Philip St do. 

" Rothey, George St do. 

" Rudford, Dorchester St do 

" Rye, 118 Union St Very good. 

" Relies, Devaney St Good. 

" Smith, Alexander Good. 

" J. Somerville, MajorSt Very good. 

" J. L. Smith, Major St ... Splendid. 
" tiherbrooke.CityCouncillorSt.Verygood. 

" N. Shipton, Anderson St Good. 

" J. Samuel, 173 Mansfield St.... do. 

" Stevenson, Mansfield Very good. 

" Scott, 54 Victoria St Good. 

" Steel, Brunswick St Very good. 

" Smith, McGill College Ave.... do. 

" Sneed, Cathcart St do. 

" Silk, GeorguSt do. 

" t-herland, George St do 

" A. Stewart, Piatt St do. 

" R. Smith, 1053 St. James S-t .... Good. 
" E. T.Scott, St. Antoine St. ... Good. 
" Stewart, 130 Sv. Antoine fct... Nice for paint. 

'* Smith, Ht. Urbain Very good. 

" A. Smith, St. Urbain ^ plendid. . ' 

" S. J. begge, 16 Torrance Good. 

" J. Toomy, Dorchester ^t do 

" Finning, 76 Victoria St Good. 

" E. Tomkins, Mance St . ... . ...Verygood. ' •- 

" Freeman, Mance i-t Good. 

" Tindale, St. Urbain St Good. 

" Thomas, St. Urbain St Splendid. 

" S. Turner, St. Urbain St Good. 

" Turner, 39 St. Antoine St do. 

" Withell, Church St Verygood. 

" E.Wilson, Cathcart St ' do. 

" Watson, Alexander Rt do 

" Watt, St. Bernard .St do 

" Walters, 141 Mansfield St Splendid. 

" Young, St. George St Very good. 



q 

tl 

P 
c 
u 

11 



SILICO, the up to date cleaner. Try it. Only to cents per cake. 3 cakes for as cento. 



SILICO STANDARD COOK ROOK. 



■^9 



Pickled PeacheS.-PourhoilinK water -^!^;^:;;^:^j::^:( ^ 
skins. Put into a large stone jar. Make a ■*'>'^"l\^7,Ei J'^,,d pour over 

rntfl ft iriike^lla-es ana piur boiling hot over the fruit. Have enough 
syrup to cover' well. Cover closely. ^ 

Sweet Pickles.-To five hundred small cucumbers take three quarts 

r,e"o::ai;:ib',;r;'wor'lh';;e,,J,,tc,. .,• .he vU,<,«ar >,<>«, .n,„K 
add one quart of water. 

/^.....»iKAr Pickles —Two hundred small cucumbers, three tablespoon- 
f 1 ^" h wh^te and bltck n u'?ard seed, one handful each juniper berr.es 
fuls each wtiite ana oi.in^ ' onions, and two pounds sugar. Let 

and snjall green peppers ^^i^^w - -^^^ ^,,^^,^ \ then pour off 

cucumbers stand n salt ^;^ '• ^'^_j^^^y „^,„ best vinegar and pour over 

water and f rX ^^ "">p,,p^^t th 'ee o"" ^^^^ ''"''''' ^^ ^'"^^^'" '' *"" '^^^'r 
PL ff-sh Puf about two quarts vinegar, all the ingredients, one-half 
add fresh. Put aooui i%m i gn^Ush chowrchow m a porcelam 

pound ground "'"•i^,^^^'^/ f ""^J* "n enough pfckles to fill a Jar, let them get 
rroughi^'S.'tfS'put'th'^m;" a jarj po^ur over some vinegar and .eal 
hot. Continue until pickles are all used. 

JELLIES AND PRESERVES. 

CaHfornia Brandy Peaches. - Half a pound pf block sugar to a 

^ f fr^.W nrst make a svrup of the sugar, putting m only just water 

pound of tru.t. /''^?.\"''''|h': Skimming constantly, making a nch syrup, 

enough to dissolve it ; boil >\' J^ {™S^ ^■^^ ^ool If your peaches are 

taking care nouo candy It ;ettlm^^ ^^.^^y^^^^ P^^^^.,^ 

quite ripe dip them into Doinng ^'^ . ^.over them. Wh e par ng them 

them ; cook them whole '" jf^^'^/^S^^SSj Cook them until you 

Sell" p'o^ISS; oi'ef.hrhorpeachas a, .1, Jy are put into the jar or ea„ , 
seal up and put away. 

spiced T„tt^F™ttl (for COM ,,.^^^^^^^ 
scalded, and seeds and skins ^^'^^'''''.^^f^i"^ ^ut one which must be grated, 
r~rr,':?itn ^^^eL-SnXfnirnrrpinch of „,ace , 5ew aU 
together until sufficiently thick. 

«?nlced Currants.-Three pounds white sugar, five pounds ripe 

boil one-half hour long. 

^ . M rr «. j«» _c;^ r-nnrts irooseberries, nine pounds sug.ir, 

,.o„.\';ra™d"o^:;S=n"ou;;,.he„T<rcro,«pi,.t v„.,Kar. one ,able,poo„U„ 



!!l 



cents. 



SILICO cleans everything, injures nothing. 



i$ 



.,!! 



40 



^ 



SIMCO STANDAWn COOK ROOK. 



By Dr. Common Sense, 



TO BELIEVE THE OVERWORKEO. 







Boiling Water, 



I Part. Elbow Grease, 

SILICO does the rest. 



I Part. 



SILICO, cleans quickly but DOES NOT SCRATCH. 



- -^1' 



S11.1C:0 STANDAWD COOK ROOK. 



41 



RKEn. 




":> 



J 



rt. 



i-ach ilovi-s, cimiiimon ami allspice. Boil a few minutes. When cold they 
shoukl be like jam. Boil longer if not thick enough. 

Preserved Strawberries. To one pound of berries use three-fourths 
of a pound of sugar, in h.vors (no water). I'laee in a kettle on back of Uie 
stove initil the sugar is dissolved into svrup ; then let come to a boil, stirrmg 
from the bottom. Spread oix platters, not loo thickly and set out ni the hot 
sun till the svrup thickens- it may take two or three days. Keep m tumblers 
or bowls like jelly. Strawberries done in this way retam then- color and 
flavor. 

Chocolate. -Two squares of vanilla chocolate to each coffeecupful of 
milk. Grate the chocolate and wet it with cold milk. Stir into the mi k 
when b(iiling. Whip a tabUspoonful of cream and beat into the chocolate 
iust as it is Taken from the stove. This makes one cup of rich .md delicious 
chocolate and can be increased in Muantity as desired. Do not let it boil, 
as it becomes oily and loses the fine fresh flavor. 

Raspberry Shrub. -Four quarts of red raspberries to one quart of 
vinei^ar ; let stand four days, then str.un. To each pint ot juice ;idd one 
pound of sugar. Boil twenty minutes. Bottle, and keep in a dry cool place. 

CANDY. 

Butter Scotch. Three pounds " cofi-ee A " sugar, one-quart^er pound 
butt" one-half teaspoonful cream tartar, eight drops extract lemon. 
DstlVele sugar in lold water and boil without stirring ti 1 it breaks when 
cTrOppe^^ i cold\vater, then take from fire and add lemon juice. l'o"r 'n o 
butt^^xd pans one-quarter inch thick, and when nearly cold work off m 
squares. 

Molasses Candy .-One quart good molasses, one-half cup vinegar 
one cup sugar, butter size of an egg, one teaspoonful baking soda B d 
lasses and sugar and vinegar until it hardens when ^^-J^PP*^^ '" .^^^ »j* 
water; then add butter and the soda dissolved in hot water. Havor to ta.te, 
pour into buttered dishes and pull when cool. 

Tn CrvstaiJze Nuts or Oranges. Take one cup of sugar, one 
smalTcup'^war^tiid the juice of a lemon ; let this boil carefully until the 
SV.C when dropped from a spoon looks like fine white hairs and is brittle ; 
then dp sn all pieces of oranges into this and lay them on buttered plates to 
d^V' l^c whole meats of English walnuts can be done in the same manner. 

FOR INVALIDS. 

Plum Broth. -Boil one pound of raisins gently in plently of water for 
an hour ; make a thickening of flour and water, K^ate m a j"' '"^KY^wt ctcn 
with sugar to taste ; a small piece ot butter may be added if preferred , also 
wine or brandy. 

Oerman Beef Tea.-One pint of boiling water, one pound of raw beef 
choppe;;^", tbur drops of muriatic acid ; let it stand one hour or more, 
then strain and bottle it ; keep on the ice. 

nelicate Eesr-NojC.-To one egg two spoonfuls of fine sugar suid two 
teasJ^ooS^of^s^Sro^ brandy or wh'ifkey. Seat the yelk well add s.igar 
and sherry, then white of egg beaten to a stiff trom, beat .» up .o^-.tn.. 
and pour into a goblet. 



irLicoTthT^^^date cleaner. Try it. Only, lo cents per cake, 3 cakes for .5 cents. 



IK i'> 



42 



SIMCO STANDARD COOK BOOK. 




fl off man's Harmless Headache Powders 

are an lu)iio.st inodiiiiu-, for which only honest, stniightforward 
statements are made. PositivflyXXxe best. Absolutely harmless. 

Hoffman's dose is small, effeel is immense, and are harmless. No 
BROMO COMPOUND or dangerous drugs of any kind. 



Everett, Mass. 

" Express nie one gross Headache Powders. This makes three gross 
for the year since accepting agency. I guarantee every box I sell, and as 
yet have not had a single complaint." 

G. E. Kimball. 

Haverhill, Mass. 

" After nearly 40 years of pharmaceutical practice, and coming in con- 
tact with most of the remedies on the market for the relief of headache, it 
gives nie pleasure to say that I have met with tiothing that has afforded me 
so mtieh satisfaction in selling, and has met with such universal approval as 
Hoffman's Headache Powders." 

C. B. Emerson. 
Conneaut, Ohio. 

" The success we have had and the sale of Hoffman's Headache Pow- 
ders is something wonderful. We are satisfied there is nothing that equals 
them for all kinds of headaches. They are a staple article with us." 

J. H. Guthrie. 



SILICO cleans everything, injures nothing. 






SILICO STANDARD COOK BOOK. 



43 






forward 
irmiess. 



e gross 
and as 

iLL. 



Ill con- 
Kche, it 
•ded me 
"oval as 

ON. 

*> r*ow- 

t eqtials 



Beef Tea Take any desired quantity of steak from the top part of the 

round, as this has less fat and more juice than any other part ot the ox ; 
remove every morsel of fat, and ilivide the meat into small pieces, cutiinjf 
across the erain ; put the moat in a dry sauce-pan, and allow it to sweat or 
five minutes over a slow fire, stirring? occasionally to prevent stickmg. l nis 
is how all beef-essences are prepared. After sweating tor five minutes, you 
will find the meat white in color, and surrounded by a very rich nounshmg 
eravy, which, in cases of great exhaustion, may be given in this torm. Hut 
ordinarily you next pour over the meat its weight of cold water, allowing a 
pint of water to a pound of beef. Stir until the water boils ; it must not 
boil again, but simmer gently for five or ten minutes, until all the juicu; is 
dr.'iwn out ; then strain carefully into a bowl, and 'f^here is .n^ particle of fa 
on top remove it with a piece of brown, unsized paper. By this method you 
nCty take off every star of fat without wasting a drop of the beef tea, as is 
done when using a ladle or spoon. In this w.iy you may have a strong bct-t 
tea in twenty minutes. Don't season. 

Chicken Tea Cut in small pieces a chicken from which the skin and 

fat have been renuwed. Boil the pieces in one quart of w.iter, with a little 
salt for twenty minutes. The tea should be poured from the chicken before 
the meat is quite cool. 

Mutton Broth. -Put about four pounds of mutton (not lamb), neck 
piece preferred, in cold water enough to cover. Simmer, not boil, nearly 
aU day, or until the meat is in shreds. Strain through a colander ; place 
fiquor i.\ ice box over night. Next morning remove the grease which h. s 
risen, being careful not to let any particles remain on the jelly. Keep jelly 
on itf^, and^when required for use, take one tabk^poonful to one-half cup of 
boiliiig water. Salt to taste, before serving. This is excellent for those 
suffering from dysenteric troubles. 

Flaxseed Tea. -One-half cupful of flaxseed to one quart of boiling 
water ; boil thirty minutes and let stand a little while near the fire to thicken 
more. Strain, and add lemon-juice and sugar. 

Toast Water.— Bread for toast water should be toasted as brown as 
possible without burning, and covered with boiling water. When cold s rain 
off the wTter and sweeu;n if desired. It may also be flavored with a little 
orange or lemon peel. 

Lime Water.— Pour two quarts of hot water over fresh unslacked 
lime (slTofa walnut), stir till slicked, let stand till clear and bottle. Often 
ordered with milk to neutralize acidity with the stomach. ^ 

Infant Food.-About a teaspoor.ful of gelatine should be dissolved by 
boiling in half a pint of water. Towards the end of the boiling, a g.U of 
cow's milk, and a teaspoonful of arrowroot made into a paste wit^ .uid 
water, are to be stirred into the solution, and from one to two tablespoon- 
fbls of cream added just at the termination of the cooking. It is then to be 
sweetened moderately with white sugar, when it is ready for use. Ihe 
whole preparation should occupy about fifteen minutes. 

Banana Fritters.— Beat three or four bananas to a cream with a» 
food whip. Add one egg, one cup of bread flour, in which one level 



-.irjpt 



,»•..! 



J one eee, one- t-up ui u.iv-...v. ..^«., ... - , e ii. ^B 

^..-ikin- Powder has been sifted, one salt-spoonful of salt, ^ 



and'about onelfburth cup of sweet milk or enough to m.ake a drop 
baUen Que teaspoonful of sugar and one lablespoonful of lemon juice 



SILICO, cleans quickly but DOES NOT SCRATCH. 



44 



SILICO STANDARD COOK BOOK. 



UOFFMAN'S Harmless Head;sche Powders 



RESTORE THE TIRED NERVES and 
CURB HBADACHB. 




MORNINQ. 



NOON. NIQHT, 

Tria', Packasre, containing 3 doses, lO Cents 
Regular Size Boxes, containing lO doses, 25 Cents. 



TESTIMONIALS. 
Ithaca, N.Y. 

"Wf have never soltl a more satislaitorv renu-dv for aiivtliln- than 
your povvdors for houd.u-iu-s. Tluy do tlu-ir own adverli.in.s "and al .in' 
price no one objects to tin- purchase of a box, and so secun- mstant relief 
You may send us another >< ^'I'ss and one do/en pills. It is well to advise 
druK'Kists to put samples a// out nt on,;-, then when pi-ople come in for second 
sample, you have none and the\ buy a box." 

CANTON, OH.O. ^""^ '"''^' "''^"^'^ ^ '^^^^"• 

''As to our experience with Headache Powders, need onlv say tint in 
less than SIX months the powders have become .ms staple an article in our 
busmess as Qunn.u. • C. A. FoRTMAN & Co. 



HOFFMAN'S Q^ Sick Headache. 
HOFFMAN'S U Neuralgic Head 
I^OFFMAN'S PI Alcoholic Headach 



HOFFMAN'S |p Headache from 

*■ OverEati 

HOFFMAN'S § Headach© from Fat 

"A WORD TO THE WISE" you know the restT Wll, 

that's just what Hoffman's Headache Powders 
_ are for LA G R i PPE. 

SIL ICO, the up to Jate cleaner. Try it. Only lo cents per cake. 3 cakes for as cents. 




^.- 



3^^^ 



Sll.ICO STANDAUn COnK BOOK. 



4n 



rs 

^BS and 




ts. 



inj,' than 
il a I (ho 
Dit riliof. 
lo advise 
r second 

3DD. 

y tlijit ill 
lo in our 
Co. 




Well, 



>s cents. 



„,av also bo acMrd. Hoal until vrry tl.orouKlily nuxod. llavo l,o fat 
Aiod as for douKlnu.ls. so liu- batter will rise to |lu- top nnnu'd.atoly. 
Dip a Jo.iu spoon in tho iV.t .-md us. il to sbapo the Ir.t ors ; .io •- '".-ke 
tluMU too la-Ko. Fry u, til u. 11 »„own.-d, drain on sol\ pap.-r. Spunk.e 
witli pi>wderod sujfJir or sorvo with lemon sauce. 

nustard Poultice. To live i,il>lospoonfuls of ground llaxseed add 
one ■ b esnoonlul of nu.sl.-.rd ; n.ix with boilinyj water, spread on a cloth, 

Td apply wi'l' - "'••" 'i-' -■'''»" ^•-••- '^ "^ ''"^ -'^ '■'" '" '""■''" "'^ 

"^ '"'Buckwheat (iruel. -Boil one tablespo onlul of buckwheat (lour in one 
quart of water for .n.e hour with one do/en stoned r.i.sn.s ; salt lo taste. 

To Check a Cold. As soon as you feel you have taken cold, fill a 
^lass' haU t" ol wat^r. drop into it six'drops spirits of c.unphor. st.r .t and 
fake a desserlspoi>i.ful every twenty nnnutes. 

CnULh Remedy.- I'ourh.ilf a pint of tioilinjf w.iter on a qu.-irter of a 
l^OUfch ***"^f"f •,-,.„ Jissolved add one quarter of a pound ot sugar 

- -liaed^;;-;; ^;Su.;c:;:..r^^,wr trea.u,enl by taU,u. Hydroleine. 
Ihc best preparation of cod liver o.l, nearly tasteless. 

To Cure B0»8.-Mix one tablespoonful of wheat flour in |>'"-^u nobler 
c ^A.. , .,- nnd drink the whole nnxture ;" one dose. M necessary 
?eV h'di/sLtlufnextSay. .If the boil h.s .„eady connnenced to torn, 
keep It wet with tincture of arnica 

MISCELLANEOUS. 

toaspooiifuls bak.i.s |.o«;lo , -"" '"" 'l/'"'' " ,„,r o ui i«i,|H«<.>fnl molted 
fr\ This rule niakes twenty. 

fhe yelks of .l.e op'- "";' '••''' ,f;;,"^'i,o «, r o ,„„ .ho volK, add 
stiff, add Erad„ally ""»/"''';3'''' 'J" j „,,,,S, ' „ „, ol,ali„K Ji»l., whon 

tz w^:,rp;:ff:S";;;dr,'ri;\i!idr^'pria^rtru! a„,o,, po.,. „>.. .,>, .„« 

orange juice ard serve. 

ilriddle Cakes.-Sift together one rounding teaspoonful baking 

Oridaie waites. ai u " K ... r,,,, yellov; corn-meal and t>ne- 

powder, one cup bread «""'' o"*=-V",„f",P ".,,,;. ,.,... well beaten, and one 

Quarter teaspo,>nful salt ^^'i.^^"^'" '"';,' .rt.r^poiu of a tablespoon 

;;p::,rahrteul^.";^i ^- Sir"«'.iix.ure wi;. u,ake twenty-eight 



SILICO cleans everything, injures nothing. 



46 



SIUCO STANDARD COOK BOOK, 



\-u 



JJoffman's Harmless 



HEADACHE POWDERS. 



The Greatest thing on Earth. 




CURES HEADACHE IN FIFTEEN MINUTES. 

Three doses In each Package. For Sale by all Druggists. 

Price, lO Cents. 
Regular Box, lO Powders, 25 Cents. 



Or by Mail by the 
Proprletora, 



The HOFFMAN CO., 

NEW ROCHELLE, N.Y. and 
INTERNATIONAL BRIDGE, ONT. 

See that Trade Mark, Cut of Demon or Man's Head is on each Box or 
Packag-e. 



SILICO, cleans quickly BUT DOES NOT SCRATCH. 



SILICO STANDARD COOK BOOK. 



47 



ERS. 



one cup milk, one cup boiled rice (cold), one-half cup rice water. Sift the 
dry ingredients together into a bowl. Make a hole in the centre, into which 

Eut the rice, and the water in which the rioe was boiled. Add the well 
eaten yelk of the egg, the milk and the melted butter. Stir until thoroughly 
mixed. Beat well and add gently the white of the egg which has been 
beaten to a stiff froth. Fry in a well greased waffle-iron. 

For the Chafing Dish -•• Oysters Maitre d'Hotel."— Rinse and 

thoroughly drain two dozen oysters. Put with one tablespoonful of butter 
in the chafing dish. Stir carefully and when the edges begin to ruffle add 
the juice of one-half lemon, one tablespoonful of chopped parsley. Season 
with salt and paprika and serve on squares of toast, 

To Remove Ink from Carpets.— Take up as much as possible of 
the ink with a teaspoon, then pour cold sweet milk upon the spot, and take 
up as before, pouring on milk until at last it becomes only slightly tinged 
with black ; then wash with cold water, and absorb with a cloth without too 
much rubbing. 

To Remove Mildew from Linen.~Two ounces chloride of lime, 
one quart of boiling water, add three quarts of cold water ; soak the linen 
three hours, no longer. 

Javelie Water. —Four ounces of chloride of lime, eight ozs. washing 
soda, three quarts of water ; let it stand three days after being well shaken. 
Pour off and bottle ; this will remove fruit stains from all white gmids. 



3t8. 



DNT. 



ox or 



TO MAKE GOOD COFFEE. 

Little Things to be Remembered When Preparinc. the Breakfast 

Drink. 

Remember in making coffee : 

That the same flavor will not suit every taste. 

That everyone can be suited to a nicety by properiy blending two or 

That equal parts of Mocha, Java and Rio will be relished by a good 
many^peop ^_^^ ^^ff^^ ^.^^ ^g ^ade dangerously strong and still retain the 

mildness of flavor. ^, . 

That the flavor is improved if the hquid is turned from the dr gs as 
soon as the proper strength has been obtained. „ . , , . j 

That where the percolation method is used the coffee should be ground 
very fine or the strength will not be extracted. j ,. ., j •. u i j u 

That if the ground coffee is.put into the water and boiled it should be 
rather coarse, otherwise it will invariably be muddy. ...... 

That a good coffee will always command a fair price, but that all 
hieh-priced coffees are not necessarily of high quality. 

That in serving the cups and cream should be warm ; the cream should 
be put in the cup before the coffee is poured in, but it is immaterial when 

the suear is added. . ^ , • ^. ^ j- 

That a level teaspoonful of the ground coffee to each cup is the standmg 
allowance, from which deviation can be made in either direction accordmg 
to the strength desired. 



SILICO, the up to date cleaner. Try it. Only lo cents per cake, 3 cakes for as cents. 



48 



SILICO STANDARD COOK BOOK. 



HOFFMIIN'S HARMLESS HEflDflGHE POWDERS . . . 




Cure this Common 
Morning' 

. . . HEAOAOHE 

and render life worth 
living", as in 

PICTURE 2. 



glVING a Clear Head and 
^ Steady Nerves to the busi- 
ness man, making success pos- 
sible and life a pleasure. 

Sample Size, 
ContalnlnflT 3 

Op a Boic oontalnln_ 
dePB, 25 Cents. 

For sale by all DRuaaisTs. 

"One Swallow doesn't make 
a Summer,"— but one swallow 
off HOFFMAN'S HARMLESS 
HEADACHE POWDERS will 
knook Lk GRIPPE into the 
middle of next Summer." 

Elgin, III., 

«' Have had good luck with the Headache Poviders. There arc few 
cases that will not yield to tiie first dose and always to the second, with no 
Iml after effects." ' r, &. s. E. Wkld. 

Galesbukg, III. 

" We have now sold over a gross of the Hoffman's Headache Powders^ 
and must confess we have never sold anything like them that gives such 
universal satisfaction as they do. They always relieve no matter from wiiat 
cause the headache comes." L. C. Moore & Co. 




SILICO, cleans everything:,* injures nothing. 



-.■.:,AiA»^,^^^:,. ;.-,w.iii,a»f-iiii I iiiT'iiiiiffiiiirtiiiiifMiiilli 



ggi^Si 



L-<A 



A 



fter reading: what your neighbors so strongly . . 
recommend, can YOU afford to be without 



Price 10 Cents. 

3 Gakes for 26 Cents. 



SiLICO? 



"A CAKE OF SILICO WRAPPED." 




5' 



gggg^gH^l^ 



IL.ICO "ot only cleans Kitchen Utensils, Tinware* 

141^^ Brass and Copper Vessels, Knives and Forks* 
Crockery, Earthen and Glassware, Porcelain, 
Marble Statuary, Mantels, Windows, Mirrors, Floors, 
Pantry Shelves, Greasy Tables, Bath Tubs and all Painted 
Wood Work, but it is also valuable for the Skin when 
extra dirty or stained. 
^ 



ALSO A GOOD TOOTH SOAP. 



-^'^•'- 



fe I- 






I" 




v'*^ 



Put this in your pipe ...... 

AND SnOKE it. 



Faith, an' sure as Pa'-hrick Is my name, yez'll find 
it's the women folkcs that be after a solvin' the labor ques- 
tion, since they are doin' 8 hours wurrulc in 4 by th^ 
usin of thet 

"Silico Scourinar Soap." 

PAT. 



^^^T- 



I^UB DIRT,. 



'•^-. 



DON^T EAT IT! 

Hundreds eat dirt because they do not use 
Silico Scouring Soap. 

TRY If AND BE CONVINCED. 

O 

ASK YOUR GROOER FOR 



Silico 




