^\ >\\0\\\ .^^v\^\^V.\o~ 











w [/) CO 



r; c <j 

C C/3 

fcjC -2 



w 



D 



3 

1! 



o 
u 
U 



< 

o 

_J 
J t- 

UJ X 

3 C3 

^ li 
u. 

O 



< 
(/) 

Q. 

UJ 
Ui 
Q 

I 
C5 

D 
O 



♦. UJ 



I I 



X X 



>- c ^ 



2 5 



o 
z 
o 
u 



j= — i: 



UJ «/> tn 



ul < 



< 
td 

< 

PS 
< 

1/3 

"a 
a 
a 

D 
U 

s 
H 



o 



c 
n 



z 

o 

(J 

o 

en U3 
is W 



CO 



C 

o 



u 

6 

if} 

X 

a 

X 

o 
f^ z 

t/3 < 



(U 



t ^ 



V 



a S -X 
- c -c 

u 
E _• 

O 
u 



.2 "^ 



CU u 



« -O S bO 



'So c> 

s " 



O 

O 

u 



J3 



•r; 

c 



-A -s *: » 






5 W 

I- ^- 

i? CI 






(1) i3 C/3 

o s 



IX, 



> 

C/3 M 



3 .rt 






rt 



" PS 



1) CJ 



ID 

H 



c« 



"p. 



C 

e 
rt 
a; 



3 

o 
o 



< 
o 



< 

K 
t- 
ID 

3 



III 
O 
OC 

< 



cc 
o 



Q 

z 



Hue 



LIBRARY OF.CONGRESS. 



Shelf_j.] 



UNITED STATES OF AMERICA. 






H 




Pi 
<1 



p 
o 

;^ 

M 
P 

H 



P 



WABNEB 

& 
ED WABDS^^,,,,^^ 



We Supply 
tt)^ Wzipts of 
the Purcb^sii75 
Public a-t 
Correct 
prices 
witb First 
Qu2iliti^s 
Dry Goocl5» 
Ca^rpets. 



Exclusive Styles. 

DRESS GOODS. 
SILKS. 

LADIES' WRAPS. 

STAPLE DRY GOODS. 

Long Experience in the Furnishing Line 
enables us to offer patrons not only Extra 
Values, but Superior Workmanship. The 
many elegant homes furnished from our 
Carpet Dep't are standing advertisements. 



WARNER & EDW^ARDS, 



F you wish to 

buy a good 

Piano, 
Organ, or 
Sewing 
Machine, 

BE SURE AND SEE 

H. ACKERMAN, 132 S. Main St. 




Everyone 



in Marion knows that 
we have the largest 
line of 

Staple and Pancy Groceries, 

And it only takes a trial order to con- 
vince you that we can save you money. 
We are agents for Chase & Sanborn's 
famous Coffees and Teas, which are the 
finest in the world. Call and see us. 
Respectfully, 

Chas. Turner S, Co. 

No. 133 E. Center St. 



G. C. CLEMENT, 

DEALER IN 

Pine (i^onfe;qfioi7^f^. 

ICE-CREAM, 

Fruits, Cigars, Tobacco, etc. 

110 W. Center Street 



f O^dHB^ ^WBt^ 



J. G. WIELAND, 

LiYery, Sale and Feed Stable. 

SPECIAL ATTENTION TO 
FUNERAL SERVICE. 

StaWe at 136 k 138 N. Main St., 

Telephone 10 & 62. MARION OHIO. 



11 



EXTRAVAGANCE 

May lie in paying too much for 

a thing, or in paying too little. 

If you buy groceries for less than we ask, 

You'll not get as good quality — that's poor economy. 

If you pay more, you pay too much, because 

we sell the best there is. 

The same rule applies to our elegant line of 

canned goods, meats, spices, teas, coffees and sugars. 

GROCER. G, M, DEDRICK, 

Telephone 48. 127 S. Main St. 

PEADON'S BAKERY and 

ICE CREAM PARLORS, 

Orders taken for Taney Creams and Ices. 



J. SCHNEIDER 6- SON 



Are the people when you want a good pair of 
Shoes. They always have a complete line of 
A\en*s, Women's and Children's Shoes and 
Rubbers in stock at 139 N. A\ain St.. A\arion. 



IARDWA7S 

And Bicycles, 107 S. Main, Marion, O. 

Is headquarters for all kinds of Hardware. Paints, 

Tools, Bicycles, and all articles pertaining 

to a rirst-Class Hardware Store. 

No. 107 South Main St., 

MARION, - OHIO. 



Ill 



No matter how perfect the cookingj there is no perfect 
happiness in any Marion home without the 

DAILY STARI 

Brightest Ncwsp^p^r! 

'^FORTi'cENTs'i WEEK." ^W. G. HARDING, Publisher. 



/ 

■^ 



DRUGS, BOOKS, 

Wall Paper, Curtain Goods, Toilet Articles, 
Tine Stationery, AVouldings. 

MASONIC BLOCK, - AAARION, OMIO. 



GEO. HAGEA\ANN & CO., 
Dealers in Staple and Fancy Groceries, 

ALWAYS KEEP A PULL LINE Or TRUITS 

AND VEGETABLES IN SEASON 

Remember, we give to every cash purchaser 

Tree of Charge their choice ot the beautiful 

Presents. Remember the place, 

209 Ezist Center 5tr<?et, - A\ARION, OHIO. 

UHLER, PHILLIPS & CO. 

Best place in Marion to buy 

Dress Goods, Sis, Cloaks, Hosiery, 

UNDERWEAK, LAOES, 

SMALL NOTIONS, DOMESTICS, ETC. 

121 WEST CENTER STREET, 
iv 



/ 



F. E. Blake's Floral EsiablistimBiit, 

GARDEN CITY PIKE, - - MARION, OHIO. 



Wedding Tlowers and Special Decorations Given 
Careful and Prompt Attention. 

Funeral Designs on Short Notice. TELEPHONE NO. 12. 

!• LUMBER •! 

j PRENDERGAST'Sl 



I COAL, ETC. I 



BREAD MAKING. 

'^ip^HE first essential is to have good flour; second, good 
VjU y^^^tJ third, proper kneading. The sweetest and 
finest bread is obtained by using "B" PRIDE 
OF MARION. Special machinery at a large cost is used 
in making this flour. It is delicately blended with Dakota 
spring wheAt, thus making it stronger and better. It ab- 
sorbs more water, and a barrel will make from twelve to fif- 
teen loaves of bread more than any other. A fair trial will 
convince you. Manufactured only by The Marion Milling Co. 

JOKlSr F. HiXJST, 
L^a,rL-u.ra,GtTarirLg -:- Oonfeotioner! 

And Jobber in Cigars, Nuts, « ■ ^, . 

Bakers' and Confectioners' Specialties. «ldIiUll, UUIO. 



DA?IES,Tlie Talk ""'""■ 



RepairiDg done on short notice. 



123 N. /nain St.. Opp. Kerr House. Aarion. O. 

y 



f\Nf 




Landon & 
Fergvison, 



-DEALERS IN- 



(af^petingS 



Paper Jlangings 

CARPETS, 

Curtain Shades, 
Curtain Poles- 

FIIJE MOULDINGS, 

And Interior Decorations of all 
kinds. 

West Center Street, 
AARION.O. 



MiBS E^dith Greer\, 




d) 





iiiji 



risher Building, W, Center St. 



MARION, 



OHIO. 



Select the Poiot Towa.rcI wl>icb Pro^rejs Trend5» 

And remember that real estate profits come from a future growth and not a past 

growths 
And dollars will grow into lots and lots will grow into fortunes. 
And do not let any one talk you into buying a lot anywhere nntil you have seen 

IVANHOE ADDITION. 
And while you are looking for investment and bargains call on 

FRED. W. PETERS.^— 

And let him show you the cream of all suburban and city property. 

Office over Deposit Bank, Marion, Ohio. 

vi 



All the articles called for in this Recipe Book 
and many more can be found at the 

Popular Grocery 
of J. W. THEW, 

Who solicits a striare of your patronage. 



Wholesale and retail dealers in 

t?bi'eL)i^fili(^c)V\/a^r^i'je^ 



Good Service to Private Consumers. 

Office — Masonic 
Factory — Campbell St. 



^^re,? Or^ ?\|)^iie^riGr^. OFFicE-Masonic Block 



"Willia-xxi Fies, 

UNDERT/VKER, 
DEALER IN FURNITURE OP ALL KINDS 

And Cliiltlren's Otii-i-iag-es. 

FIES-KLING BLOCK, SOUTH MAIN STREET, 

Is/LsLrlozij - Oliio. 

prescription Dru%%istt 

No. 1T4 West Center Street, Opposite Postoffice, Campbell Block. 

Telephone 15. MARION, OHIO. 



S-A."VE IMIOlSrEY 

By buying your AVillinery at A\rs. Baldwin's, where 

you will find one of the largest and best selected 

stocks of A\illinery shown in /Marion. 



J8®=PR1CES GUARANTEED. 

vii 



RECIPES 



TRIED^^TRUE 



COMPILED BV 

The LADIES' AlD SOCIETY 



OF tme; 



FIRST PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH, 

r.V '^ 




c 



We may live without peetry, music, and a?tT- 
We may live without conscience, and live without heart; 
We may live without friends; we may live without books; 
Kut civilized man cannot live without cooks." 

— Owen Merhdith. 









MARION, OHIO: 

Press of Kelley Mount 

18 9 4. 



f 




Entered according to Act of Congress in the year 1894 by the 

Ladies' Aid Societv ok the First Presbyterian Church, JVIarion, Ohio, 

In the Office of the Librarian of Congress at Washington. 



To f\\e ,/A o tT] e PS , Wiv^s^ oisteP5 d^nd Oweet- 
hea^pt^ of the Good /Aeo of f\rr\ee\c^. th)is BooK 



s Dedicd^f-ec) by tf^e 



"TKUE BkUES, 



1? 




piHS;i,aiJ.,y|!j|yj|, 



FIRST PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH. 
Erected 1849-51. 

X9ATH Wt&T STREET, MARION. OWIO. 




FIRST PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH. 
Erected 1893-4. 

CORNER WEST AND SOUTH STREETS. MAR»ON. 0H)0. 



PREFACE. 




LTHOUGH ill putting forth this little book we do Dot 
claim that we are filling a "Long felt want," yet we 
do feel that its many tried and true recipes frora our 
own housekeepers will be very welcome. AVe also believe 
that it will not only be welcomed by those who recognize 
the names and merits of the various contributors, biit by all 
housekeepers, young and old. There can never be too many 
helps for those who, three times a day, must meet and answer 
the imperative question, "What shall we eat?" 

To the many who have helped so willingly in the compil- 
ation of this book, the Editorial Committee would extend a 
grateful acknowledgment. 

For the literary part of the' work, we would beg your in- 
dulgence, since for each of us it is the first venture in the 
making of a hook. 



MENUS. 



"All the labor of man is for his mouth, and yet the appetite 
is not filled." — Solomon. 



SUNDAY BREAKFAST (WINTER). 

MR8. T. H. LINSLEY. 

Oat ^leal. Boston Brown Bread. Boston Baked Beans. 

Coffee. 

PLAIN DINNER. 

EUGENE DE WOLFE. 

Tomato Soup. Boiled Fish. Lemon Sauce. 

Roast Lamb. Mint Sauce. 

Stewed Tomatoes. Sweet Potatoes. 

Spanish Cream. Coffee. 

PLAIN DINNER. 

EUGENE DE WOLFE. 

Bouillon. Boiled Spring Chicken. New Potatoes. 

New Peas. Lettuce, Mayonnaise Dressing. 

Rhubarb Pie. 

Cheese. Crackers. Coffee. 

8 



MENUS. y 

OLD-FASHIONED THANKSGIVING 

DINNER. 

GAIL HAMILTON. 

Roast Turkey, Oyster Dressing. Cranberry Sauce. 

Mashed Potatoes. Baked Corn. 

Olives. Peaches. 

Pumpkin Pie. Mince Pie. 

Fruit. Cheese. Coffee. 

FAMILY DINNERS FOR A WEEK 

In Siammer. 

OZELLA SEFFNER. 

Green Corn Soup. Salmon and Green Peas. 

Roast Beef. Tomatoes. 

New Potatoes. Strawberry Ice Cream. 

Cake. Coffee. Iced Tea. 

AVon<ia.y. 

Lamb Chops. Mint Sauce. Potatoes. 

Escaloped Onions. Cucumber Salad. 

Orange Pudding. 

Veal Soup. Fried Chicken. Green Peas. 

Rice Croquettes. Strawberries and Cream. 

Wc«Joesd^y. 

Broiled Beef Steak. Potato Croquettes. String Beans. 
Tomato Salad. Fruit Jelly. Cream Pie. 

Tburs^a^y. 

Potato Soup. Roast Veal. Baked Potatoes. Beet Salad. 
Asparagus. Strawberry Shortcake. 



10 RECIPES TRIED AND TRUE. 

Bi)iled Fisli. Egg Sauce. Lamb Chops. 

Peas. Escaloped Potatoes. 

Lettuce, Mayoiiuaise. Raspberry Iced Tea. 

S^turd^y. 

Chickeu Pot Pie, with DuiDpliugs. S})iiiach, 

Cucumber Salad. Radishes. Lemonade. 

PLAIN FAMILY DINNERS FOR A 
WEEK IN WINTER. 

OZELLA SEFFNER. 

Suncla.y. 

Cracker-Ball Soup. Roast Beef and Yorkshire Pudding. 

Creamed Potatoes. Celery. 

Mince Pie. Apricot Ice Cream. Cheese. 

Coffee or Chocolate. 

/^on^Jzvy. 

Cold Roast Beef. Mashed Potatoes. Cabbage Slaw. 

Pickles. Plain Plum Pudding. Cheese, Tea. 

Tues«da.y. 

Tomato Soup. Leg of Mutton. Caper Sauce. 

Baked Potatoes. Stewed Turnips. 

Apple Pudding. Coffee or Tea. 

Wcdocsclzvy. 

Lemon Bouillon. Baked Fish, wath Drawn Butter. 

Roast Chicken. Potatoes. 
Boiled Onions. Pickles or Olives. Cottage Pudding. 



MENUS. 11 

Thurscl^y. 

Roast Beef Soup. Stewed Tonmtoe.^. Mashed Potatoes. 

Boiled Rice. Turnips. 

Troy Pudding. Egg Sauce. 

Friday. 

('oni Soup. Chicken Pie. French Peas. 

Stewed Potatoes. Cream Shiw. Suet Pudding. 



•»' 



Sa^turclay. 

Boiled Corn Beef, with Veeetables. Pork and Beans. 

Pickles. Indian Pudding. Cream Sauce. 



BREAKFASTS. 
Fall and Winter. 

OZELLA SEFFNER. 

1. ^lelon. Fried Mush. Fried Oysters. Potatoes. 
Rolls. Coffee or Cocoa. 

2. i\[eIon or Fruit. Graham Cakes. Maple Syrup. 
New Pickles. Broiled Steak. Corn Oysters. Coffee or 
Cocoa. 

3. Melon or Fruit. Fried Oat Meal ^lush. Syrup. 
Bacon, Dipped in Eggs. Fried Potatoes. Coffee. 

4. Oranges. Warm Biscuit. Jelly. Broiled Oysters 
on Toast. Rice Balls. Coffee. 

5. Oranges. Mackerel. Fried Potatoes. Ham Toast. 
Muffins. 

6. Breakfast Bacon. Corn Griddle Cakes. Syrup. 
Boiled Eggs. Baked Potatoes. 

Sprin^^ £^^^iT^l Summer. 

1. Fruit. Muffins. Ham. Eggs. Radishes. Onions. 
Coffee. 



12 RECIPES TRIED AND TRUE. 

2. Fruit. Light Biscuit. Breakfast Bacon. Scram- 
bled Eggs. Fried Potatoes. Coffee. 

3. Fruit. Corn Meal Muffins. Veal Cutlets. French 
Toast. Radishes. New Onions. Coffee. 

4. Strawberries. Lamb Chops. Cream Potatoes. Gra- 
ham Muffins. Coffee. = 

5. Raspberries. Oat Meal and Cream. Sweet Breads. 
Sliced Tomatoes. Hamburg Steak. Fried Potatoes. Coffee. 

6. Berries. Breakfast Bacon, Dipped in Butter and Fried. 
Sliced Tomatoes. Baked Potatoes. Muffins. Coffee. 



A FEW PLAIN DINNERS. 

GAIL HAMILTON. 

1. Tomato Soup. Cranberry Sauce. Roast Pork, with 
Dressing. Potatoes. Peas. 

Dessert — Fruit and Cake. Coffee. 

2 Vegetable Soup. Beef Steak and Gravy. Macaroni, 
with Cheese. 

Dessert — Cake and Lemon Pudding. Coffee. 

3. Clam Soup. Boiled Chicken. Potatoes. Lettuce, 
Mayonnaise Dressing. 

Dessert — Strawberry Shortcake, with Strawberry 
Sauce. 

Coffee. Crackers. Cheese. 



SOUP. 



"A hasty plate of soup.' 



PREFACE. 

The best soups are made with a blending of many flavors. 
Don't be afraid of experimenting with them. Where yon 
make one mistake you will be surprised to find the number 
of successful varieties you can produce. If you like a 
spicy flavor, try two or three cloves, or allspice, or bay 
leaves. All soups are improved by a dash of onion, unless 
it is the white soups, or purees from chicken, veal, fish, 
etc. In these celery may be used. 

In nothing so well as soups can a housekeeper be econom- 
ical of the odds and ends of food left from meals One of 
the best cooks was in the habit of saving everything, and 
announced one day, when her soup was especially praised, 
that it contained the crumbs of gingerbread from her 

cake box! 

Creamed onions left from a dinner, or a little stewed corn 
or tomatoes, potatoes fried or mashed, a few baked beans- 
even a small dish of apple sauce— have often added to the 
flftvor of soup Of course, all good meat gravies, or bones 
from roast or fried meats, can be added to the contents of 

13 



14 RECIPES TRIED AND TRUE. 

your stock kettle. A little butter is always needed in to- 
mato soup. 

Stock is regularly prepared by taking fresh meat (crack- 
ing the bones and cutting the meat into small pieces) and 
covering it with cold water. Put it over the fire and sim- 
mer or boil gently until the meat is very tender. Some 
cooks say, allow an hour for each pound of meat. B3 sure 
to skim carefully. When done take out meat and strain 
your liquid. It will frequently jelly, and will keep in a 
cold place for several days, and is useful for gravies, as well 
as soups. 

A FINE SOUP. 

MRS. W. H. ECKHART. 

Take good soup stock and strain it. When it boils add 
cracker b:\lls, made thus: To one pint ot* cracker crumbs 
add a pinch of salt and pepper, one teaspoonful parsley, cut 
fine, one teaspoonful baking powder, mixed with the crumbs, 
one s.niill dessert spjan of butter, one egg; stir all together; 
make into balls size of a marble; place on platter to dry for 
about two hours; when ready to serve your soup put them 
into the stock; boil five minutes. 

ROAST BEEF SOUP. 

MRS, W. C. BUTCHER. 

To a good loin roast add six tablespoons of vinegar and 
small piece of butter; salt and pepper; stick six cloves in 
the roast; sprinkle two tablespoons of cinnamon and sift 
one cup of flour over it. Put in oven in deep pan or kettle 
with a quart of boiling water; roast until it is about half 
done and then strain over it three-fourths of a can of toma- 
toes; finish roasting it and when done add celery-salt to suit 
the taste, and one cup of sweet cream and some catsup, if 
preferred. 



SOUP. 15 

BEAN SOUP. 

MRS. H. F. SNYDER. 

To one quart of beans add one teaspoon of soda, cover 
with water, let boil until the hulls will slip off, skim the 
beans out, throw them into cold water, rub with the hands, 
then remove the hulls; drain, and rub until all hulls are re- 
moved; take two quarts of water to one quart of beans, boil 
until the beans will mash smooth; boil a small piece of meat 
with the beans. If you have no meat, rub butter and flour 
together, add to the soup, pour over toasted bread or 
crackers, and season with salt and pepper. Add a little 
l)arsley, if desired. 

BOUILLON. 

MRS. W. C. DENMAN, 

Take three pounds of lean beef (cut into small pieces) and 
one soup bone; cover with three quarts of cold water, and 
heat slowly. Add one tablespoon of salt, six pepper corns, 
six cloves, one tablespoon mixed herbs, one or two onions, 
and boil slowly five hours. Strain, and when cold, remove 
the fat. Heat again before serving, and season with pepper, 
salt, and Worcester sauce, according to taste. 

LEMON BOUILLON. 

LOUISE KRAUSE. 

A Delicate Soup. — Take soup meat, put on to cook in 
cold water; boil until very tender; season with salt. Into 
each soup plate slice very fine one hard boiled egg and two 
or three very thin slices of lemon. Strain the meat broth 
over this and serve hot, with crackers. 



16 RECIPES TRIED AND TRUE. 

CORN SOUP. 

MRS. G. H. WRIGHT. 

Cover a soup bone with water, and boil one hour. Add 
some cabbage and onion (cut fine). Boil two hours longer. 
Add twelve ears of grated sweet corn. Season to taste. 

NOODLE SOUP. 

MRS. W. H. ECKHART. 

Beat three eggs. Add a pinch of salt, and flour suffic- 
ient for a stiff dough; roll into very thin sheets; dredge with 
flour to avoid sticking; turn often until dry enough to cut; 
cut very fine, and add to the stock five minutes before serv- 
ing. Season to taste. 

OYSTER STEW. 

MRS. J. ED. THOMAS. 

Wash one quart oysters and place on the fire. AVheu 
they boil, add one quart of boiling milk, and season with 
salt, pepper, and plenty of butter. Serve with crackers or 
toast. 

POTATO SOUP. 

MRS. T. H. LINSLEY. 

Slice four ordinary-sized potatoes into one quart of boil- 
ing water. When done add one quart milk; into this slice 
one onion. Thicken just before serving with one egg rub- 
bed into as much flour as it will moisten. Pepper and salt 
to taste. 

POTATO SOUP. 

MRS. U. F. SEFFNER. 

After stewing veal, use the stock. Slice four or five po- 



SOUP. 



17 



tatoes very thin; lay them in cold water until thirty min- 
utes before serving; add them to the stock, with sufficient 
salt and pepper. Beat one tablespoon of butter and one 
tablespoon of flour to cream; add to this one pint milk; stir 
in the soup just before serving. This can be made without 
meat by adding more butter and milk. 

TOMATO SOUP. 

MRS. R. H. JOHNSON. 

Take half a can, or six large fresh tomatoes; stew until 
you can pass through a course sieve. Rub one tablespoon - 
ful of butter to a cream with one tablespoonful flour or 
corn starch. Have ready a pint scalded milk, into which 
stir one-half saltspoon soda. Put the strained tomato into 
the soup pot; add the butter and flour, after having heated 
them to almost frying point; let come to a good boil; add 
just before serving; season with a little pepper, a lump of 
loaf sugar, a dust of mace and a teaspoon of salt. 

TOMATO SOUP. 

MRS. HARRY TRUE. 

One quart canned tomatoes, one quart of water, a few 
stalks of celery; boil until soft. Return to stove, and add 
three-fourths of a teaspoon of soda and allow to effervesce; 
then add the liquid from one quart of oysters, one quart 
boiling milk and one cup of cream. Salt, butter, and pep- 
per to taste. Boil a few moments and serve. 

TOMATO SOUP. 

MRS. T. H. B. BEALE. 

Put on soup bone early to boil. Have two quarts of li- 
quor on the bone. When done, remove the bone from ket- 
tle; put one can of tomatoes through sieve; add to the li- 

4 



18 RECIPES TRIED AND TRUE. 

quor; then immediately add one-half teaspoon soda, a small 
lump butter, one tablespoon white sugar, one heaping table- 
spoon of flour mixed with a half cup of cream or milk; salt 
and pepper to taste. After the flour is in let boil up three 
times, and serve. 

VEGETABLE SOUP. 

MRS. J. S. REED. 

One-fourth head cabbage, three large onions, one turnip, 
three large potatoes, two tablespoons cooked beans; boil all 
together till tender. Pour off all water; then add one gal- 
lon of stock. Add tomatoes, if vou like. 

VEAL SOUP. 

MRS. SAMUEL BARTRAM. 

Put a veal soup bone over the fire in one gallon of cold 
water; skim carefully as it comes to a boil; after it has 
boiled one hour season it with salt and pepper and half tea- 
spoonful (scant) celery seed. In another half hour put 
in one-half cup rice, one medium-sized potato (cut in dice 
or thin slices), two good-sized onions (sliced fine); let boil 
one-half hour longer, and when ready to serve add one egg 
(well-beaten), one-half cup milk, one tablespoon flour; let 
come to a boil, and serve. 

VEGETABLE SOUP. 

MRS. G. A. LIVINGSTON. 

Three onions, three carrots, three turnips, one small cab- 
bage, one pint tomatoes. Chop all the vegetables, except 
the tomatoes, very fine. Have ready in a porcelain kettle 
three quarts boiling water; put in all except tomatoes and 
cabbage; simmer for one-half hour; then add the chopped 
cabbage and tomatoes (the tomatoes previously stewed); also 



SOUP. 19 

a buuch of sweet herbs. Let soup boil for twenty minutes; 
strain through a sieve, rubbing all the vegetables through. 
Take two tablespoonfuls butter, one tablespoon flour; beat 
to cream. Pepper and salt to taste, and add a teaspoon of 
white sugar; one-half cup sweet cream, if you have it; stir 
in butter and flour; let it boil up, and it it is ready for the 
table. Serve with fried bread chips or poached eggs, one 
in each dish. 



20 RECIPES TRIED AND TRUE. 



FISH AND OYSTERS. 



" Now, good digestion, wait on appetite, 
And health on both." — Macbeth. 



ACCOMPANIMENTS OF FISH. 

MRS. DELL WEBSTER DE WOLFE. 

With boiled fresh mackerel, gooseberries, stewed. 

With bailed blue fish, white cream sauce and lemon sauce. 

With boiled shad, mushroom, parsley and egg sauce. 

Lemon makes a very grateful addition to nearly all the 
insipid members of the fish tribe. Slices of lemon cut into 
Very small dice, stirred into drawn butter and allowed to 
come to a boiling point, is a very fine accompaniment. 

RULE FOR SELECTING FISH. 

If the gills are red, the eyes full, and the whole fish firm 
and stiff, they are fresh and good; if, on the contrary, the 
gills are pale, the eyes sunken, the flesh flabby, they are 
stale . 

BAKED FISH. 

Take large white fish or pickerel, make a dressing as for 
turkey, with the addition of one egg and a little onion; fill 



FISH AND OYSTERS. 21 

the fish, wrap close with twiae, lay in baking pan; put in 
one-half pint of water, small lumps of butter and dredge with 
Hour. Bake from three-fourths to one hour, basting care- 
fully. 

CODFISH V/ITH EGG. 

MRS. E. P. TRUE. 

Wash codfish; shred fine with fingers (never cut or chop 
it); pour cold water over it. Place the dish on the stove 
and bring the water to a boil. Throw the fish in a colander 
and drain. Stir a teaspoonful of flour smoothly w^ith water; 
add two tablespoonfuls of butter and a little pepper; bring 
to a boil; then throw in the codfish, with a well-beaten egg. 
When it boils up it is ready for table. 

CODFISH WITH CREAM. 

MRS. E, P. TRUE. 

Take a piece of codfish six inches square; soak twelve 
hours in soft, cold water; shred fine with the fingers; boil a 
few moments in fresh water. Take one-half pint cream and 
a little butter; stir into this two large tablespoonfuls flour, 
smoothly blended in a little cold water; pour over the fish; 
add one egg, well beaten. Let come to a boil; season with 
black pepper. 

SLIVERED CODFISH. 

Sliver the codfish fine; pour on boiling water; drain it off; 
add butter and a little pepper. Heat three or four minutes, 
but do not let fry. 

CODFISH BALLS. 

MRS. T. H. LINSLEY. 

One pint shredded codfish, two quarts mashed potatoes, 



22 RECIPES TRIED AND TRUE. 

well seasoned with butter and pepper — salt, if necessary. 
Make this mixture into balls. After dipping them into a 
mixture of two eggs beaten with one-half cup milk, place 
them in a dripping pan into which you have put a little but- 
ter; place them in the oven; baste frequently with eggs and 
milk; bake till a golden brown. 

FRIED FISH. 

MRS. J. S. REED. 

Wash the fish and dry well. Take one-half pint of flour 
and one teaspoon salt; sift together, and roll the fish in it. 
Have lard very hot, and fry quickly. When done roll in a 
cloth to absorb all grease. 

OYSTERS ON TOAST. 

MRS. JOHN KISHLER. 

Toast and butter a few slices of bread; lay them in a 
shallow dish. Put the liquor from the oysters on to heat; 
add salt, pepper, and thicken with a little flour. Just be- 
fore this boils add the oysters. Let it all boil up once, and 
pour over the toast. 

ESCALOPED OYSTERS. 

EVELYN GAILEY. 

Two quarts of oysters; wash them and drain off the li- 
quor; roll some crackers (not too fine). Put in a pan a layer 
of crumbs, some bits of butter, a little pepper and salt; 
then a layer of oysters, and repeat until the dish is full. 
Have cracker crumbs on top; turn a cup of oyster liquor 
over it; add good sweet milk sufficient to thoroughly satur- 
ate it, and bake three-fourths of an hour. 



FISH AND OYSTERS. 23 

STEAMED OYSTERS. 

S. E. G. 

Select large oysters; drain; put on a plate; place in the 
steamer over a kettle of boiling water. About twenty min- 
utes will cook them. Season with pepper and salt; serve on 
soft buttered toast. 

OYSTER GUMBO. 

ALICE TURNEY THOMPSON. 

Cut up a chicken; roll in flour and brown well in a soup- 
pot, with a spoonful of lard, two slices of ham, one large 
onion (chopped fine), and a good-sized red pepper. When 
browned, cover the whole with water and stew until the 
chicken is perfectly tender. Then add the liquor of four or 
five dozen oysters, with water enough to make four quarts. 
When it has again come to a good boil, add the oysters and 
stir while sifting in one large spoonful of fresh file. Salt 
to taste. Serve immediately, placing a large spoonful of 
boiled rice in each soup plate. 

''Gumbo File" is made of the red sassafras leaves, dried 
and ground into a powder. 

OYSTER PIE. 

MRS. ECKHART. 

Make a rich pie crust, and proceed as you would to make 
any pie with top crust. Have nice fat oysters and put on a 
thick layer, with plenty of lumps of butter; salt and pep- 
per, and sprinkle over cracker crumbs. Put in the least 
bit of water, and cover with crust. Bake, and serve with 
turkey. 



24 RECIPES TRIED AND TRUE. 

OYSTER PIE. 

MRS. EMMA OGIER. 

For crust make a dough as for baking powder biscuit. 
Take one quart of oysters; remove a half dozen good-sized 
ones into a saucepan; put the rest into bottom of your bak- 
ing dish. Add four spoons of milk; salt to taste, and dot 
closely with small lumps of butter. Over this put your 
crust, about as thick as for chicken pie, and place in oven 
to bake until crust is well done. Take the oyster left, add 
one-half cup water, some butter, salt and pepper; let this 
come to a boil; thicken with flour and milk, and serve as 
gravy with the pie. 

FRIED OYSTERS. 

MRS. H. T. VAN FLEET. 

Place New York counts in a colander to drain for a few 
minutes. With a fork remove them separately to a dry 
towel. Place another towel over them, allowing them to 
remain until all moisture is absorbed. Have ready the 
beaten yolks of three eggs and a quantity of rolled cracker, 
salted and peppered. Dip each oyster separately, first into 
egg, then into cracker. When all have been thus dipped, 
have ready a hot spider, into which drop four heaping table- 
spoons of butter. When butter is melted, place in the oys- 
ters, one by one; fry a light brown, then turn. Serve very 
hot. 

PIGS IN BLANKET. 

FRED. LINSLEY. 

Take extra select oysters and very thin slices of nice ba- 
con. Season the oysters with a little salt and pepper. Roll 
each oyster in a slice of bacon; pin together with a tooth- 
pick; roast over hot coals, either laid on a broiler, or fasten 



FISH AND OYSTERS. 25 

them on a meat fork and hold ov^er the coals. Cook until 
the bacon is crisp and brown. Don't remove the toothpick. 
Serve hot. 

SOUR FISH. 

MRS. W. H. ECKHART. 

Take a whole fish; stew until tender in salt water; take 
out, lay on platter. Throw a handful of raisins in the salt 
water and a few whole cloves, allspice, stick cinnamon, with 
vinegar enough to give a sour taste, and a tablespoonful of 
sugar. Thicken with flour to the consistency of gravy; pour 
over fish. Serve cold. Fish may be served with mayon- 
naise dressing, cooked in same manner. 

SALT HERRING. 

MRS. JUDGE B. 

Heat them on gridiron; remove the skin and serve with 
pepper and melted butter. 

SALMON LOAF. 

MARGARET LEONARD. 

One small can salmon, four eggs beaten light, four table- 
spoons melted butter — not hot, — -one half cup fine bread 
crumbs. Season with salt, pepper, and parsley. Chop fish 
fine, then rub in butter till smooth. Beat crumbs into egg 
and season before putting with fish. Butter your mold 
and steam one hour. 

Sauce for Same. — One cup of milk, heated to a boil; 
thicken with one tablespoon of corn starch and one table- 
spoon of butter, beaten together. Put in the liquor from 
the salmon and one raw egg, beaten light; add a little pep- 
per. Put the egg in last, and carefully pour over loaf; 

Serve hot. 

5 



26 RECIPES TRIED AND TRUE. 

SAUCE FOR FISH. 

Stir in one cup of drawn butter, the yolks of two eggs 
(well beaten), pepper and salt, and a few sprigs of parsley. 
Let it boil. Pour over fish when ready to serve. 

SOUR SAUCE FOR FISH. 

One-half cup butter, with one-half cup vinegar; let boil, 
then add two mustardspoonfuls of prepared mustard, a lit- 
tle salt, and one egg, beaten together. Make in the farina 
kettle. Stir while cooking. 

BROILED OYSTERS. 

Place good-sized oysters on pie plates; sprinkle well with 
flour, small lumps of butter, pepper and salt. Cover with 
strained liquor and a little cold water. Set in a warm oven 
fifteen or twenty minutes. Nice to serve with turkey. 

OVEN FRIED FISH. 

MRS. JANE E. WALLACE. 

Open and clean fish (white or bass). Have fish pan spread 
thick with butter, and lay fish in. Season with salt. Over 
this pour two well-beaten eggs, and dredge with flour. Bake 
three-quarters of an hour, and baste with butter and water. 
Garnish fish plate with parsley. 

ESCAEOPED SALMON. 

CARRIE P. WALLACE. 

Pick bones and skin out of one can of salmon, and mince 
tine. Use as much rolled cracker as you have salmon, a 
little salt, and cup of cream. Fill sea shells with this mix- 
ture, placing a small piece of butter on top of each shell. 
Bake twenty minutes and serve in the shells. 



FOWL AND GAME. 27 



FOWL AND GAME. 



"And then to breakfast with what appetite you have." — Shakespeare. 



ACCOMPANIMENTS FOR FOWLS. 

With boiled fowls, bread sauce, onion sauce, lemon sauce, 
cranberry sauce, jellies, and cream sauce. 

With roast turkey, cranberry sauce, currant jelly. 

With boiled turkey, oyster sauce. 

With wild ducks, cucumber sauce, currant jelly, or cran- 
berry sauce. 

With roast goose or venison, grape jelly, or cranberry 
sauce. 

A GOOD WAY TO COOK CHICKEN. 

MRS. R. H. JOHNSON. 

Fricassee your chicken, taking care to brown the skin 
nicely; season to taste. When done set by to cool; then re- 
move all the bones; put back into the liquor in which it was 
cooked; chop fine, leaving in all the oil of the fowl. If not 
enough of the oil, add a piece of butter; then pack closely 
in a dish as you wish it to go to the table. 



28 RECIPES TRIED AND TRUE. 

DROP DUMPLINGS FOR VEAL OR 

CHICKICN. 

MRS. R. H. JOHNSON. 

One full pint of sifted flour, two even teaspoonfuls of 
yeast powder, and a little salt. Wet this with enough milk 
or water to drop from spoon in a ball; remove your meat or 
chicken; drop in the balls of dough; cook five minutes in 
the liquor; place around the edge of platter, with the chicken 
or meat in center; season the liquor and pour over it. 

JELLIED CHICKEN. 

MRS. R. H. J. 

Boil the fowl until the meat will slip easily from the 
bones; reduce the water to one pint. Pick the meat from 
the bones in good -sized pieces; leave out all the fat and gris- 
tle, and place in a wet mold. Skim all the fat from the 
liquor; add one-half box of gelatine, a little butter, pepper 
and salt. When the gelatine is dissolved, pour all over the 
chicken while hot. Season well. Serve cold, cut in slices. 

FRIED CHICKEN. 

MRS. J. ED. THOMAS. 

Kill the fowls the night before; clean, cut and set on ice 
until needed the next day. Flour and sprinkle with salt and 
pepper; pour boiling water over it, and stew three-quarters 
of an hour. Add sufficient butter to fry a light brown. 

CHICKEN PIE. 

Take a pair of young, tender chickens and cut them into 
neat joints. Lay them in a deep pudding-dish, arranging 
them so that the pile shall be higher in the middle than at 
the sides. Reserve the pinions of the wings, the necks, and 



FOWL AND GAME. 29 

the feet, scalding the latter and scraping off the skin. Make 
small forcemeat balls of fine bread crumbs seasoned with 
pepper, salt, parsley, a suspicion of grated lemon peel, and 
a raw egg. Make this into little balls with the hands, and 
lay them here and there in the pie. Pour in a cupful of 
cold water, cover the pie with a good crust, making a couple 
of cuts in the middle of this, and bake in a steady oven for 
an hour and a quarter. Lay a paper over the pie if it 
should brown too quickly. Soak a tablespoouful of gela- 
tine for an hour in enough cold water to cover it. Make a 
gravy of the wings, feet, and necks of the fowls, seasoning 
it highly; dissolve the gelatine in this, and when the pie is 
done pour this gravy into it through a small funnel inserted 
in the opening in the top. The pie should not be cut until 
it is cold. This is nice for picnics. 

CHICKEN PIE. 

MRS. M. A. MOORHEAD. 

Stew the chicken until tender. Line a pan with crust 
made as you would baking powder biscuit. Alternate a 
layer of chicken and pieces of the crust until the pan is 
filled; add a little salt and pepper to each layer; fill with 
the broth in which the chicken was cooked; bake until the 
crust is done. If you bake the bottom crust before filling, 
it will only be necessary to bake until the top crust is done. 
A layer of stewed chicken and a layer of oysters make a 
delicious pie. Use the same crust. 

DROP DUMPLINGS FOR STEWED 

CHICKEN. 

MRS. W. H. ECKHART, 

Stew chicken and make a rich gravy with milk or cream. 
Pour off a part into a separate vessel and thin with water; 
let it boil, then drop in dumplings made with this propor- 



30 RECIPES TRIED AND TRUE. 

tion: One quart flour, a little salt, oue egg, two teaspooii- 
fuls baking powder, and milk to make a stiff batter. Stir, 
and drop from spoon into boiling gravy. Cover, and let 
boil gently for five minutes. Try them with a fork. They 
must be perfectly dry inside when done. Serve with the 
chicken. 

CHICKEN ON BISCUIT. 

MRS. H. T. VAN FLEET. 

Have prepared for cooking a nice fat fowl about a year 
old; season with pepper and salt, and boil two hours, or un- 
til very tender. When done there should be a quart of 
broth. If there is not that quantity, boiling water should 
be added. Beat together very smoothly two heaping table- 
spoonfuls of flour with the yolk of one egg and one-third 
pint of cold water; add this to broth, stirring briskly all the 
time; add one tablespoon ful of butter. Have ready a pan 
of hot biscuit; break them open and lay halves on platter, 
crust down; pour chicken and gravy over biscuit, and serve 
immediately. 

ROAST TURKEY. 

MRS. J. F. MC NEAL. 

Prepare the dressing as follows: Three coffeecups of 
bread crumbs, made very fine; one teaspoonful salt, half 
teaspoonful pepper, one tablespoonful powdered sage, one 
teacup melted butter, one egg; mix all together thoroughly. 
With this dressing stuff the body and breast, and sew with 
a strong thread. Take two tablespoonfuls of melted butter, 
two of flour; mix to a paste. Rub the turkey with salt and 
pepper; then spread the paste over the entire fowl, with a 
few thin slices of sweet bacon. Roll the fowl loosely in a 
piece of clean linen or muslin; tie it up; put it in the oven, 
and baste every fifteen minutes till done. Remove cloth a 



FOWL AND GAME. 31 

few moments before taking turkey from oven. A young 
turkey requires about two hours; an old one three or four 
hours. This can be tested with fork. Thicken the drip- 
pings with two tablespoonfuls of browned flour, mixed with 
one cup sweet cream. 

Oyster Sauce to be Used with the Turkey. — Take 
one quart of oysters; put them into stew pan; add half cup 
butter; pepper and salt to taste; cover closely; let come to a 
boil, and serve with the turkey and dressing. 

TURKEY AND DRESSING. 

MRS. U. F. SEFFNER. 

A good-sized turkey should be baked two and one-half or 
three hours, very slowly at first. Turkey one year old is 
considered best. See that it is well cleaned and washed. 
Salt and pepper it inside. Take one and a half loaves of 
stale bread (baker's preferred) and crumble fine. Put into 
frying pan a lump of butter the size of an egg; cut into 
this one white onion; cook a few moments, but do not brown. 
Stir into this the bread, with one teaspoon of salt and one of 
pepper; let it heat thoroughly; fill the turkey; put in roaster; 
salt and pepper the outside; dredge with flour and pour over 
one cup water. 

BONED TURKEY. 

MRS. R. H. J. 

Boil a turkey in as little water as possible until the bones 
can be easily separated from the meat; remove all the skin; 
slice, mixing together the light and dark parts; season with 
salt and pepper. Take the liquor in which the fowl was 
boiled, having kept it warm; pour it on the meat; mix well; 
shape it like a loaf of bread ; wrap in a cloth and press with 
a heavy weight for a few hours. Cut in thin slices when 
served. 



32 RECIPES TRIED AND TRUE. 

ROAST DUCKS AND GEESE. 

Use auy filling you prefer; season with sage and onion, 
chopped fine; salt and pepper. (You can use this seasoning 
with mashed potatoes for a stuffing). Young ducks should 
roast from twenty-five to thirty minutes; full grown ones for 
two hours. Baste frequently. Serve with currant jelly, 
apple sauce and green peas. If the fowls are old parboil 
before roasting. 

APPLE STUFFING. 

MRS. W. H. ECKHART. 

Take one-half pint of apple sauce (unsweetened); add 
one half cup or more of bread crumbs, some powdered sage, 
a little chopped onion, and season with cayenne pepper, 
Delicious for roast geese, ducks, etc. 

CHESTNUT DRESSING. 

MRS. W. H. ECKHART. 

Boil the chestnuts and shell them; blanch them, and boil 
until soft; mix with bread crumbs and sweet cream; salt and 
pepper; one cup raisins. Excellent dressing for turkey. 

PLAIN STUFFING. 

Take stale bread; cut off the crust; rub very fine, and 
pour over it as much melted butter as will make it crumble 
in your hand. Salt and pepper to taste. To this you can 
add one good-sized onion (chopped fine), a cup of raisins, or 
a little sage. 

OYSTER DRESSING. 

Make dressing same as above plain stuffing; add one egg 
and one-half can drained oysters. Strain the oyster liquor 
and use for basting the fowl. 



FOWL AND GAME. 33 

A GOOD SAUCE FOF BIRDS OR 

VENISON. 

Chop an onion fine, and boil it in milk; when done, add 
the gravy from the game, and thicken with pounded cracker. 

POTTED PIGEONS OR BIRDS. 

Pick, soak, and boil the birds with the same care as for 
roasting. Make a crust as for chicken pie; lay the birds in 
whole, and season with pepper, salt, bits of butter, and a 
little sweet marjoram; flour them thickly; then strain the 
water in which they were boiled, and fill up the vessel two- 
thirds full with it; cover with the crust; cut hole in the cen- 
ter. Bake one hour and a half. 

PIGEONS AND PARTRIDGES. 

These may be boiled or roasted the same as chickens, only 
cover the breasts with thin slices of bacon; when nearly 
done, remove the bacon, dredge with flour, and baste with 
butter. They will cook in half an hour. 

RABBITS. 

MRS. ECKHART. 

Rabbits, which are best in mid-winter, may be fricasseed, 

like chicken, in white or brown sauce. Rabbit pie is made 

like chicken pie. To roast a rabbit, stuff with a dressing 

made of bread crumbs, chopped salt pork, thyme, onion, 

pepper and salt; sew up; rub over with a little butter, or 

pin on a few slices of salt pork; add a little water, and baste 

often. Rabbits may be fried as you would steak, and served 

with a sour sauce made like a brown flour gravy, with half 

a cup of vinegar added; pour over the fried rabbit, and 

serve it with mashed potatoes, 

6 



34 RECIPES TRIED AND TRUE. 



MEATS. 



What say you to a piece of beef and mustard?" — 'Shakespeare, 



ACCOMPANIMENTS. 

MRS. DELL DE WOLFE. 

With roast beef, tomato sauce, grated horseradish, mus- 
tard, cranberry sauce, pickles. 

With roast pork, apple sauce and cranberry sauce. 

AVith roast veal, tomato sauce, mushroom sauce, onion 
sauce, or lemon sauce. 

With roast mutton, currant jelly, caper sauce, bread 
sauce, onion sauce. 

With roast lamb, mint sauce, green peas. 

TO BOIL MEATS. 

For all meats allow from fifteen to twenty minutes for 
each pound. Skim well. All fresh meats are to be put 
into boiling water to cook; salt meats into cold water. Keep 
the water constantly boiling, otherwise the meat will absorb 
the water. Be sure to add boiling water if more is needed. 
The more gently meat boils the more tender it will be. 



MEATS » 



85 



TO BROIL MEATS. 
In broiling all meats, you must remember that the surface 
should not be cut or broken any more than is absolutely 
necessary; that the meat should be exposed to a clear, quick 
fire, close enough to sear the surface without burning, in 
order to confine all its juices; if it is approached slowly to 
a poor fire, or seasoned before it is cooked, it will be com- 
paratively dry and tasteless, as both of these processes are 
useful only to extract and waste those precious juices which 
contain nearly all the nourishing properties of the meat. 

BEEFSTEAK. 

MR. GEORGE B. CHRISTIAN. 

The chief secret in preparing the family steak lies in se- 
lection. Like cooking the hare, you must first catch it. 
Choose a thick cut from the sirloin of a mature, well fatted 
beeve, avoiding any having dark yellow fat. Detach a por- 
tion of the narrow end and trim off any adhering inner skin. 
Place the steak upon a hot spider, and quickly turn it. Do 
this frequently and rapidly until it is thoroughly seared, 
without burning. It may now be cooked to any degree 
without releasing the juices. Serve upon a hot platter. 
Pour over a scant dressing of melted butter. Season. Who- 
soever partakes will never become a vegetarian. 

STUFFED BEEFSTEAK. 

E. H. W. 

Take a flank or round steak and pound well; sprinkle with 
pepper and salt. Make a plain dressing; spread it on the 
steak; roll it up; tie closely, and put in a skillet with a lit- 
tle water and a lump of butter the size of an egg; cover 
closely and let it boil slowly one hour; then let it brown in 
skillet, basting frequently. When done, dredge a little 
flour into the gravy, and pour over the meat. 



36 RECIPES TRIED AND TRUE. 

TO FRY STEAK. 

MRS. H. T. VAN FLEET. 

Have a nice tenderloin or porterhouse steak, one inch and 
half in thickness, well hacked. Over this sprinkle salt, 
pepper, and a little flour. Have ready a very hot spider. 
Into this drop plenty of good, sweet butter (a quarter of a 
pound is not too much); when thoroughly melted, lay in the 
meat; turn frequently. While cooking, make many open- 
ings in the steak to allow the butter to pass through. When 
done, place on a hot platter and serve immediately. 

BEEFSTEAK AND ONIONS. 

MRS. H. T. VAN FLEET. 

Have a steak well hacked; over this sprinkle pepper, salt, 
and a little flour. Into a very hot spider drop oneteaspoon- 
ful of lard; when melted, lay in steak; pour over this two 
tablespoons boiling water, and cover steak with four good- 
sized onions, sliced very thin. Cover quickly and cook five 
minutes; then turn all over together, and cook five minutes 
longer. Care should be taken that the onions do not turn. 
Take up on hot platter; place onions on top of meat, and 
serve immediately. 

BEEFSTEAK AND MUSHROOMS. 

CALEB H. NORRIS. 

Put the steak on to fr}^ with a little butter. At the same 
time put the mushrooms on in a different skillet, with the 
water from the can and one-half cup extra; season with pep- 
per and salt, and thicken with a tablespoonful of flour. 
Take the steak out, leaving the gravy, into which put the 
mushrooms, cook for a few minutes, and pour all over 
the steak. 



MEATS. 37 

BEEF LOAF. 

MRS. J. J. SLOAN. 

Take three and one-half pounds of lean beef (raw), chop- 
ped; six crackers, rolled fine; three well-beaten eggs, four 
tablespoonfuls of cream, butter the size of an egg; salt and 
pepper to taste; mix all together and make into a loaf. Bake 
one and one-half hours. Serve cold in thin slices. 

BEEF A LA MODE. 

ALICE TURNEY THOMPSON. 

Take a round of beef, four or five inches thick, and for a 
piece weighing five pounds soak a pound of white bread in 
cold water until soft; turn off the water; mash the bread 
fine; then add a piece of butter the size of an egg, half a 
teaspoonful each of salt, pepper, and ground cloves, about 
half a nutmeg, two eggs, a tablespoonful of flour, and a 
a quarter of a pound of fresh pork, chopped very fine. 
Gash the beef on both sides and fill with half the dressing. 
Place in a baking pan, with luke-warm water enough to 
cover it; cover the pan and put into the oven to bake gently 
two hours; then cover the top with the rest of the dressing, 
and put it back for another hour and let it brown well. On 
dishing up the meat, if the gravy is not thick enough, stir 
in a little flour, and add a little butter. It is a favorite 
meat, eaten cold for suppers and luncheons. When thus 
used, remove the gravy. 

FRIED LIVER. 

Always use calf's liver, cut in slices. Pour boiling water 
over, and let it stand fifteen minutes. Fry some slices of 
breakfast bacon; take out the bacon; roll the liver in either 
flour or corn meal, and fry a delicate brown; sprinkle with 
salt and pepper. Serve wdth gravy if you like. 



38 RECIPES TRIED AND TRUE. 

POTATO AND MEAT PIE. 

Take mashed potatoes, seasoned with, salt, pepper, and 
butter; line a baking dish with it; lay upon this slices ol' 
cold meat (any kind), with a little pepper, salt, catsup, and 
gravy; then another layer of potatoes, another of meat, and 
so forth till pan is filled, having the last a cover of potatoes. 
Bake until thoroughly warmed. Serve in the dish in which 
it is cooked. 

COLD MEAT TURNOVERS. 

MRS. A. B. 

Roll out dough very thin; put in it, like a turnover, cold 
meat, chopped fine, and seasoned with pepper, salt, catsup, 
and sweet herbs. Make into small turnovers, and fry in 
lard until the dough is well cooked. 

VEAL CUTLETS. 

MRS. U. F. SEFFNER. 

Fry a few slices of breakfast bacon. Dip the cutlets in 
a beaten egg; roll in corn meal or cracker crumbs; salt and 
pepper; put in skillet with the fat from bacon; fry slowly 
until a nice brown. 

VEAL LOAF. 

MRS. GERTRUDE DOUGLAS WEEKS. 

Three pounds of veal or beef, chopped fine; three eggs-^ 
beaten with three tablespoons of milk, butter the size of an 
egg, one cup of powdered crackers, one teaspoon of black 
pepper; one tablespoon of salt; mix well together; form into 
a loaf, and bake two and one-half hours. Baste with but- 
ter and water while baking. 



MEATS, 39 

VEAL STEW. 

Cut four pounds of veal into strips three or four inches 
long and about one inch thick. Peal twelve large potatoes; 
cut them into slices one inch thick. Put a layer of veal in 
the bottom of the kettle, and sprinkle salt and a very little 
pepper over it; then put a layer of potatoes; then a layer of 
veal, seasoned as before, and so on until all the veal is used. 
Over the last layer of veal put a layer of salt pork, cut in 
slices; cover with potatoes; pour in water until it rises an 
inch over the whole; cover close; heat fifteen minutes; sim- 
mer one hour. 

DRESSING FOR ROAST OF VEAL. 

MRS. E. FAIRFIELD. 

Two cups of stale bread crumbs, one tablespoouful melted 
butter; pepper and salt to taste; make into a soft paste with 
cream, and lay over top of roast to brown for about one-half 
hour before roast is done. 

VEAE AND HAM SANDWICH. 

MARY W. WHITMARSH. 

Boil six pounds each of ham and veal. Save the water 
from boiling the veal, and to it add half a box of gelatine, 
dissolved in a little cold water. AVhen the meat is cold, run 
through a sausage grinder, and with the meats mix the gel- 
atinous water. Season the veal with salt, pepper, and sweet 
marjoram. Put a little red pepper in the ham. .Make al- 
ternate layers of ham and veal, using a potato masher to 
pound it down smooth. Set in cold place. It is better to 
make it the day before using. 



40 RECIPES TRIED AND TRUE. 

POT ROAST. 

MRS. BELINDA MARTIN. 

Use any kind of meat; put into an iron pot a tablespoon- 
ful of meat fryings or butter; let it brown; wash off the 
roast, and put into the pot. After it begins to fry, pour in 
enough water to half cover the meat; season with pepper 
and salt; cover, and stew slowly. As the meat begins to 
fry, add more water; turn it often, and cook about three 
hours. A half hour before serving, add either Irish or 
sweet potatoes, or turnips; let brown with the meat. 

TO ROAST PORK. 

Take a leg of pork, and wash clean; cut the skin in 
squares. Make a dressing of bread crumbs, sage, onions, 
pepper and salt; moisten it with the yolk of an egg. Put 
this under the skin of the knuckle, and sprinkle a little 
powdered sage into the rind w^here it is cut. Eight pounds 
will require about three hours to roast. Shoulder, loin, or 
spare ribs may be roasted in the same manner. 

SCRAPPLE. 

MRS. EDWARD E. POWERS. 

Two pounds pork, two pounds liver, tw^o pounds beef, a 
small heart; boil all until thoroughly cooked; take up and 
chop while warm; put back into broth (altogether you w^ill 
have two and one-half or three gallons); then make quite 
thick with corn meal. Cook one-half hour. Put in pans 
to mold. Season meat while cooking with salt, pepper, and 
sage. 

SPICED MEAT. 

MRS. IRA UHLER. 

Take five pounds of beef from the shoulder and cover 



MEATS. 41 

with cold water; boil until very teuder; chop fine and sea- 
son with salt and pepper. Slice four or five hard boiled 
eggs. Alternate layers of meat and eggs, having a layer of 
meat on the top. Put an ounce of gelatine and a few cloves 
into the liquor in which the meat has been boiled; boil this 
down to one pint; strain it over the meat, which must be 
pressed down with a plate.- Set in a cool place. Slice cold 
for serving. 

BATTER PUDDING WITH BEEF 

ROAST. 

MRS. C. H. NORRIS. 

Put roast in oven, and cook within an hour of being done; 
then place a couple of sticks across the pan and rest your 
roast upon them. Make a batter according to the following 
rule, and pour it right into the gravy in which the roast has 
been resting, cook an hour and serve: Four eggs, table- 
spoon of sugar, one quart of milk, six tablespoons of flour, 
and a piece of butter the size of a walnut. 

BONED SHOULDER OF MUTTON. 

Have the bone carefully removed from a rather lean 
shoulder of mutton, and fill the orifice thus left with a good 
forcemeat. To make this, chop fine half a pound of lean 
veal and quarter of a pound of ham, and add to these a 
small cup of fine bread crumbs. Season with a quarter-tea- 
spoonful each of ground mace, cloves, and allspice, and a 
saltspoonf ul of black pepper. Stir in a raw egg to bind the 
mixture together. When the forcemeat has been put into 
the hole in the shoulder, cover the mutton with a cloth that 
will close the mouth of the opening, and lay the meat in a 
pot with the bone from the shoulder, a peeled and sliced on- 
ion, carrot and turnip, a little parsle}' and celery, and a bay- 
leaf. Pour in enough cold water to cover the mutton en- 
tirely, stir in a heaping tablespoonful of salt, and let the 

7 



42 RECIPES TRIED AND TRUE. 

water come gradually to a boil aud simmer until the mutton 
has cooked twenty minutes to the pound. Let it cool in the 
broth; take it out; lay it under a weight until cold, and 
serve. This is also very good hot. The liquor makes ex- 
cellent soup. 

TO FRY HAM. 

First, parboil it and drain well; then fry a light brown. 
Make a gravy with milk, a little flour, and a teaspoonful of 
sugar; pour over the ham. 

HAM TOAST. 

MRS. E. SEFFNER. 

Chop lean ham (the refuse bits); put in a pan with a 
lump of butter the size of an egg, a little pepper, and two 
beaten eggs. When well warmed, spread on hot buttered 
toast. 

BOILED HAM. 

The beat ham to select is one weighing from eight to ten 
pounds. Take one that is not too fat, to save waste, ^yash 
it carefully before you put it on to boil, removing rust or 
mold with a small, stiff scrubbing brush. Lay it in a large 
boiler, and pour over it enough cold water to cover it. To 
this add a bay leaf, half a dozen cloves, a couple of blades 
of mace, a teaspoonful of sugar, aud, if you can get it, a 
good handful of fresh, sweet hay. Let the water heat very 
gradually, not reaching the boil under two hours. It should 
never boil hard, but simmer gently until the ham has cooked 
fifteen minutes to every pound. It must cool in the liquor, 
and the skin should not be removed until the meat is en- 
tirely cold, taking care not to break or tear the fat. Brush 
over the ham with beaten egg, strew it thickly with very 
fine bread crumbs, and brown in a quick oven. Arrange a 



MEATS. 43 

frill of paper around the bone of the shank, and surround 
the ham with water-cress, or garnish the dish with parsley. 

TONGUE. 

Wash the tongue carefully, and let it lie in cold water for 
several hours before cooking — over night, if possible. Lay 
it in a kettle of cold water when it is to be cooked; bring 
the water to a boil slowly, and let it simmer until the tongue 
is so tender that you can pierce it with a fork. A large 
tongue should be over the fire about four hours. When it 
has cooled in the liquor in which it was bailed, remove the 
skin with great care, beginning at the tip, and stripping it 
back. Trim away the gristle and fat from the root of the 
tongue before serving it. Serve with drawn butter or lemon 
sauce. 

FORCEMEAT BALLS. 

MRS. JUDGE BENNETT. 

Chop cold veal fine with one-fourth as much salt pork. 
Season with salt, pepper, and sweet herbs. Make into balls; 
fry them brown. Eat this way, or drop into soup. 

VEAL LOAF. 

MRS. U. F. SEFFNER. 

Three pounds of lean veal chopped with one pound of 
raw salt pork; three eggs, one pint of rolled cracker; one 
tablespoon of salt, one tablespoon of pepper, one tablespoon 
of butter, a little sage; mix all together; make into a loaf. 
Put one-half pint of water in roaster; put in the loaf; sprin- 
kle fine cracker crumbs over it, and some small lumps of 
butter; bake slowly one hour; if baked in open pan, baste 
same as turkey. 



44 RECIPES TRIED AND TRUE. 

SV/EET BREADS. 

Parboil them in salt water; remove the skin and tough 
parts; cut iu pieces the size of a large oyster; dip in beaten 
egg; roll in cracker crumbs, seasoned with salt and pepper; 
fry in hot butter, or drop in hot lard, as you would doughnuts. 

SNVEET BREADS WITH PEAS. 

MRS. E. S. 

Parboil the sweet breads; cut in small squares; add to 
them a coffee cup of cream, pepper, salt, and a tablespoon 
of butter. Cook the peas tender, and add them to the 
sweet breads. Moisten a tablespoonf ul of flour with a little 
milk; add, and boil up once or twice just before serving. 

A PICKLE FOR BEEF,PORK,TONGUE, 

OR HUNG BEEF. 

MRS. JUDGE BENNETT. 

Mix in four gallons of water a pound and a half of sugar 
or molasses, and two ounces of saltpetre. If it is to last a 
month or two, use six pounds of salt. If you wish to keep 
it through the summer, use nine pounds of salt. Boil all 
together; skim and let cool. Put meat iu the vessel in which 
it is to stand; pour the pickle over the meat until it is cov- 
ered. Once in two months, boil and skim the pickle and 
throw in two or three ounces of sugar, and one-half pound 
of salt. In very hot weather rub meat well with salt; let it 
stand a few hours before putting into the brine. This 
draws the blood out. 

TO CURE BEEF. * 

MRS. S. A. POWERS. 

For Fifty Pounds. — Saltpetre, one ounce; sugar, one and 
three-fourths pounds; coarse salt, three and one-half pounds; 
water, two gallons; boil together; let cool; pour over meat. 
Keep the meat under the brine. 



VEGETABLES, 45 



VEGETABLES. 



"Cheerful cooks make every dish a feast." — Massinger. 



Always have the water boiling when you put your vege- 
tables in, and keep it constantly boiling until they are done. 
Cook each kind by itself when convenient. All vegetables 
should be well seasoned. 

BEETS. 

Boil the beets in salted water until tender. When cold, 
skin; cut in thin slices, and dress with white pepper, salt, 
oil, or butter, and vinegar; or pour over them a French 
dressing, and toss with a silver fork until every piece is 
coated with the dressing. 

STRING BEANS, WITH ACID 

DRESSING. 

MRS. W. H. ECKHART. 

Cook wax beans in salted water with a little salt pork. 
When the beans are tender, take out and drain. Let a few 
bits of breakfast bacon brown in a skillet, then put in a half 



46 RECIPES TRIED AND TRUE. 

pint of good viDegarand a spoouful of sugar (omit the sugar if 
you prefer the pure acid); let boil; add an onion, sliced fine; 
pour over the beans, and mix well before serving. 

BAKED BEANS. 

MRS. S. A. POWERS. 

Pick over and wash well one quart of small white beans; soak 
over night. In the morning, pour off the water and cover 
with cold water. After boiling one-half hour, drain them, 
and cover again with cold water. Boil until cooked, but 
not broken. Put them in a baking dish. In the center 
place one pound salt pork (which has been parboiled and 
well gashed), one tablespoonful of molasses, one dash of 
cayenne pepper, black pepper to taste, and, if necessary, a 
little salt. Ordinarily the pork should salt the beans. 
Cover with part of the liquor in which the pork has been 
parboiled, and bake three hours. 

COLD SLA>V, WITH ONION. 

MRS. E. 

Slice cabbage fine on a slaw cutter. To a dish of cabbage 
use one large onion, also sliced fine. Mix with good vine- 
gar; salt, pepper and sugar to taste. 

CABBAGE. 

MRS. W. H. ECKHART. 

How TO Boil. — Cut a large head of cabbage into quar- 
ters; then re-cut the quarters, and wash well in cold water; 
pour boiling water over it, and cover about five minutes; 
drain in colander, and add one good-sized onion, a pinch of 
cayenne pepper, and enough meat broth to cover it; boil un- 
til tender. A brisket of beef is best for the broth. 



VEGETABLES, ^7 

CABBAGE. 

MISS BERTHA MARTIN. 

Scalloped. — Roll crackers as for oysters. Cut cabbage 
as for slaw. Put in your pan a layer of crackers, then a 
layer of cabbage, with salt, pepper, and lumps of butter, 
until the pan is filled; cover with sweet milk. Bake thirty 
or forty minutes. 

GREEN CORN PATTIES. 

. MRS. G. H. WRIGHT. 

Take twelve ears of green corn (grated), one teaspoon of 
salt, and one teaspoon of pepper; beat one egg into this, 
with two tablespoons of flour. Drop into hot butter or lard. 

CORN OYSTERS, 

MRS. G. H. WRIGHT. 

To one quart of grated corn add three eggs, beaten sep- 
arately; four crackers, rolled fine; salt and pepper to taste. 
Fry in butter or lard. 

CORN OYSTERS. 

MRS. J. C. WALTERS. 

Grate and chop one pint of young sweet corn; add one egg, 
well beaten; one teacupful flour, three tablespoonfuls cream, 
one teaspoonful salt. Fry like oysters. 

POTATOES "AU GRATIN." 

jenny E. WALLACE. 

Take one tablespoonful of butter, and three tablespoonfuls 
of flour; mix together on stove, and add two cups milk. 
Chop fine cold boiled potatoes; put in a baking dish; pour 
the dressing over, and add enough grated cheese to cover it. 
Bake about thirty minutes. 



48 RECIPES TRIED AND TRUE. 

POTATO CROQUETTES. 

MRS. F. W. THOMAS. 

Take one pint of mashed potatoes; season with one table- 
spoonful of soft butter, one-half saltspoon of white pepper, 
one-half teaspoon of salt, one-half teaspoon of celery salt, 
a few drops of onion juice, and one egg; mix well till light; 
rub through a strainer; return to the fire and stir till the po- 
tato cleaves the dish. When cool, shape into balls, then 
into cylinders; roll in fine bread or cracker crumbs; dip in 
beaten egg, then in crumbs again, and fry brown in hot fat. 

WHIPPED POTATOES. 

MRS. B. B. CLARK. 

Instead of mashing in the ordinary way, whip potatoes 
with a fork until light and dry; then put in a little melted 
butter, some milk, and salt to taste, whipping rapidly until 
creamy. Put as lightly and irregularly as you can in a hot 
dish, 

LYONNAISE POTATOES. 

For lyonnaise potatoes chop an onion fine; fry it brown in 
a tablespoonful of butter; add another tablespoonful to the 
iron spider after the frying, and let the butter become very 
hot. Then cut six whole boiled potatoes into thick or half 
inch slices, and lay them in the spider, which should be ample 
enough to hold them without lapping over one another. Let 
them fry brown on both sides, tossing them occasionally to pre- 
vent them burning. Sprinkle a tablespoonful of parsley 
over them, and serve at once. They should be very hot 
when brought on the table. 



VEGETABLES, 49 

ESCALOPED POTATOES. 

MRS. O. W. WEEKS. 

Pare aud slice thin the potatoes; put a layer in your pud- 
ding pan one-half inch deep; sprinkle salt, pepper, and bits 
of butter over it; then put another layer of potatoes, and an- 
other sprinkle of salt, pepper, and butter, until you have 
as many layers as you wish. Fill in with sweet cream or 
milk until you can just begin to see it. Sprinkle on top 
one cracker, pulverized. Bake in hot oven from one-half 
to one hour. 

MASHED SW^EET POTATOES. 

MRS. W. H. ECKHART. 

Pare and boil till done; drain, and mash smooth; add milk 
or cream, and salt; beat like cake, with a large spoon — the 
more they are beaten the better they become. Put in a 
baking dish; smooth with a knife dipped in milk; place a 
lump of butter in the center; sprinkle with pepper, and place 
in a hot oven for a few minutes. 

BROWNED SWEET POTATOES. 

MRS. ECKHART. 

Pare, and cut in halves. Have in a skillet some hot fry- 
ings, in which place potatoes; pour in about one-half pint 
of water; season with salt and pepper. Cook until tender. 
Remove the cover, and let brown; take out in dish; throw a 
spoonful of sugar into skillet, with a little flour aud water; 

let boil up once or twice, and pour over the potatoes. 

8 



50 RECIPES TRIED AND TRUE. 

SWEET POTATOES, SOUTHERN 

FASHION. 

MRS. W. E. THOMAS. 

Boil your potatoes until soft; slice them, and lay in a but- 
tered pudding dish. Sprinkle each layer with light brown 
sugar, and dot thickly with bits of butter. Over all pour 
enough water to cover well the bottom of your dish. Set 
in oven and bake half an hour or more, thoroughly brown- 
ing the top, and cooking the sugar, butter and water into a 
rich syrup. Some add, also, a dash of flour between the 
layers. Serve hot with your meat and other vegetables. 

DRIED PUMPKIN. 

MRS. J. EDD THOMAS. 

Stew pumpkin as for pie; spread upon plates, and dry in 
the oven carefully. When you wish to make pie, soak over 
night; then proceed as you would with fresh pumpkin. 
Pumpkin prepared in this way will keep well until spring, 
and pies are as good as when made with fresh pumpkin. 

STEWED RICE. 

MRS. EDWARD E. POWERS. 

Take one- half cup of rice; wash it twice; cover with wa- 
ter two inches above rice; cook dry; then cover with a cup 
or more of milk; add butter the size of a walnut, and salt 
to taste. When cooked dry again, serve hot with cream 
and sugar. 

NEW ENGLAND SUCCOTASH. 

MRS. S. A. POWERS. 

Take two quarts shelled Lima beans (green), one dozen 
ears of corn (cut off cob), and one pound pickled pork. 



VEGETABLES. 



51 



Cover pork with water, and parboil it; add beans cooked un- 
til they burst; then add corn, two tablespoonfuls sugar, 
butter the size of a walnut, and pepper to taste. After corn 
is added, watch carefully to keep from scorching. 

TURNIPS. 

M. E. WRIGHT. 

Put one-half teacup of butter in your kettle, and let it get 
hot; then add one tablespoon sugar. Have your turnips 
sliced fine; put them in your kettle, and stir well; add 
enough water to stew tender; then sprinkle over them one 
tablespoon of flour and a little rich cream. Stir well, and 
serve. Sweet potatoes are excellent cooked the same Avay. 

TO STEW TURNIP. 

MRS. ECKHART. 

Pare, halve, and slice them on a slaw cutter; boil in clear 
water. When tender, add a large lump of butter, a tea- 
spoonful of sugar, and pepper and salt to taste. Stir in 
flour and cream to thicken, like peas. Serve in sauce dishes. 

TOMATO MACARONI. 

EXCHANGE. 

Break macaroni in pieces three inches long, and boil un- 
til tender. Butter a deep dish, and place a layer of pared 
and sliced tomatoes on the bottom (if canned, use them just 
as they come from the can) ; add a layer of the stewed mac- 
aroni, and season with salt, pepper, and bits of butter; add 
another layer of tomato, and so on until the dish is as full 
as desired. Place a layer of cracker crumbs on top, with 
bits of butter. Bake about thirty minutes, or until well 
browned* 



52 RECIPES TRIED AND TRUE, 



EGGS. 



Humpty Dumpty sat on the wall. 
Humpty Dumpty had a great fall. 
All the king's horses and all the king's men 
Could not set Humpty Dumpty back again. 

-"-Mother Goos^/ 



Try the freshness of eggs by putting them into cold water j 
those that sink the soonest are the freshest. 

Never attempt to boil an egg without watching the time- 
piece. Put the eggs in boiling water. In three minutes 
eggs will boil soft; in four minutes the white part will be 
cooked; in ten minutes they will be hard enough for salad. 

HOW TO PRESERVE. 

MRS. M. UHLER. 

To each pailful of water add two pints of fresh slaked 
lime and one pint of common salt; mix well. Fill your 
barrel half full with this fluid, put your eggs down in it 
any time after June, and they will keep two years if 
desired. 



EGGS. 53 

SOFT BOILED EGGS. 

MRS. W. E. THOMAS. 

Put eggs in a bowl or pan; pour boiling water over them 
until they are well covered; let stand ten minutes; pour off 
water, and again cover with boiling water. If you like 
them quite soft, eat immediately after pouring on second 
water; if you like them harder, leave them in longer. This 
method makes the white more jelly-like and digestible. 

FRENCH OMELETTE. 

GERTRUDE DOUGLAS WEEKS. 

Take eight eggs, well beaten separately; add to the 
yolks eight tablespoonfuls of sweet milk, one tablespoonful 
of flour, one teaspoonful of good baking powder, salt 
and pepper; beat well together, and then stir in lightly at 
the last the beaten whites. Have ready a skillet with melted 
butter, smoking hot, and pour in mixture. Let cook on 
bottom; then put in oven from five to ten minutes. Serve 
at once. 

OMELETTE. 

MRS. H. T. VAN FLEET. 

To the well beaten yolks of five eggs add two teaspoon - 
fuls of corn starch, and a little salt dissolved in one-half 
cup of milk. Beat whites to a stiff froth, and stir lightly 
into mixture. Have ready a hot buttered spider, into which 
turn the whole, and bake to a light brown in a quick oven. 

PLAIN OMELETTE. 

MRS. C. H. WILLIAMS. 

Stir into the well beaten yolks of four eggs one-half table- 



54 RECIPES TRIED AND TRUE. 

spoonful of melted butter, a little salt, one tablespoonful of 
flour mixed soomth in one cup of milk; beat together well, 
and then stir in lightly the whites, beaten stiff; pour into 
buttered skillet; cook on top stove for ten minutes, and then 
place in oven to brown. 

EGG FOR AN INVALID. 

Put two tablespoonf uls of boiling water in a sauce pan on 
the stove; break a fresh egg into it; stir briskly until the 
egg is slightly set, but not at all stiff; season with salt, and 
a little pepper. Serve at once on a thin slice of buttered 
toast. 

SARDELLED EGGS. 

JENNIE MARTIN HERSHBERGER, TIFFIN, OHIO. 

Boil some eggs hard; remove shells, and cut the eggs ob- 
long; take out yolks, and cream, or mash fine. Then take 
sardells, and remove the backbone; mash fine, and mix with 
the yolks of eggs and a little red pepper, and fill the whites 
of eggs with the mixture. They are fine for an appetizer. 
Sardells are a small fish from three to four inches long, and 
come in small kegs, like mackerel. 

STUFFED EGGS. 

Boil eggs for twenty minutes; then drop in cold water* 
Remove the shells, and cut lengthwise. Remove the yolks, 
and cream them with a good salad dressing. Mix with chop- 
ped ham, or chicken, or any cold meat, if you choose. 
Make mixture into balls, and fill in the hollows of your 
whites. If you have not the salad dressing, mix the yolks 
from six eggs with a teaspoonful of melted butter, a dash 
of cayenne pepper, a little prepared mustard, salt, vinegar, 
and sugar to taste. 



SALADS AND SALAD DRESSING. 55 



SALADS AND SALAD 

DRESSING. 



" To make a perfect salad, there should be a spendthrift for oil, a miser for vine- 
gar, a wise raan for salt, and a madcap to stir the ingredients up, and mix them 
well together." — Spanish Proverb. 



It is said that "Any fool cau make a salad," but all 
salads are not made by fools. "Mixing' ' comes by intui- 
tion, and the successful cooks use the ingredients, judgment, 
and their own tastes, rather than the recipe. 

Any number of salads and fillings for sandwiches for 
home use, teas or receptions, can be made at little cost and 
trouble, by using the following simple recipe for dressing. 
The secret or success of the dressing lies in the mixing of 
the ingredients: 

Powder the cold yolks of four hard boiled eggs; then stir in 
•one tablespoon even full of common mustard, one-half tea 
spoonful of salt, and two heaping tablespoon fu Is of pulverized 
sugar. When mixed thoroughly, add three tablespoonfuls 
ssf good table oil, and stir rapidly for three minutes; then 
add six tablespoonfuls of good, sharp vinegar, and stir for 
^ve minutes, Now you will have dressing sui^cient for a 



56 RECIPES TRIED AND TRUE. 

dozen or fifteen plates of salad, and one that will keep in a 
cool place for weeks. • 

LETTUCE SALAD. 

Add to the above dressing just before serving, one pound 
of crisp lettuce, cut in one-half inch squares, or sliced fine. 
Garnish the dish or dishes with the white of the egg, chop- 
ped fine, to which add the thin slices of two or three small 
radishes. 

LOBSTER SALAD. 

Take one pound of fresh or canned lobster, two small 
onions, one fourth of a lemon (with rind), two bunches of 
celery, or a like amount of crisp cabbage; chop fine, and 
thoroughly mix with the dressing. Serve on a lettuce leaf 
in individual dishes; garnish with the white of the eggs, 
chopped fine. 

Veal, chicken, terrapin, salmon, little-neck clams, scol- 
lops, etc., can be utilized by the judicious cook in connec- 
tion with the dressing. 

SANDWICH FILLING. 

Take ham, veal, chicken, sardines, etc., with the white 
of the eggs, chopped exceedingly fine, and mixed with suf- 
ficient of the dressing to make a paste the consistency of 
butter; spread this on thin slices of bread, cut in irregular 
shapes, and you have most delicious sandwiches. 
Dedicated to the Committee, by 

Yours respectfully, 

H. M. Stowe. 

CHICKEN SALAD. 

MRS. JOHN LANDON. 

Take white and choice dark meat of a cold boiled chicken 
or turkey, three-quarters same bulk of chopped celery or 
cabbage, and a few cucumber pickles, chopped well and 
mixed together. For the dressing take the yolks of two 



SALADS AND SALAD DRESSING. 57 

bard boiled eggs, rub to a fine powder; mix with it a tea- 
spoonful of salt, teaspoonful pepper, teaspoouful mustard, 
two teaspoonfuls white sugar; then add three teaspoonfuls 
salad oil, and, last of all, one-half cup vinegar. Pour the 
dressing over the chopped meat, cabbage, etc., and stir all 
well together. 



CHICKEN SALAD. 

MRS. A. A. LUCAS. 

Take two large chickens; boil tender; pick in small bits. 
Chop as much celery as you have meat. For the dressing, 
take six yolks and one whole egg; beat to a froth, mix with 
two spoonfuls of salad oil, one spoonful mixed mustard, a 
little pepper and salt, one pint vinegar, heated; before it 
boils, stir in the other ingredients; cook till thick, stirring 
all the time. Boil down the liquid in which the chickens 
were cooked until it forms a jelly. Let all cool. Two or 
three hours before using, mix meat, celery, liquid, and 
dressing. 

CHICKEN SALAD. 

MRS. G. H. WRIGHT. 

Two chickens, boiled tender and minced fine, five hard 
boiled eggs, and one raw egg. Take as much chopped cab- 
bage as you have minced chicken; chop the whites of the 
boiled eggs, and put with the chicken. Mix the cooked 
yolks with the raw egg; add one teacup of the broth and 
oil from the chicken, one pint of good vinegar, salt, pepper, 
mustard, and sugar to taste. Part celery and part cabbage 

can be used, if desired. Mix all together. 

9 



58 RECIPES TRIED AND TRUE. 

CHICKEN SALAD FOR TWO 

HUNDRED. 

MRS. W. H. ECKHART. 

Thirty chickens, cooked and cut medium fine, fifty heads 
of celery, two gaUons of good strong vinegar, three pounds of 
light brown sugar, ten cents' worth of yellow mustard, three 
pounds of butter, four dozen eggs, boiled hard. Chop 
whites, and cream yolks with butter. Boil vinegar and su- 
gar together, and skim; add the creamed butter and yolks; 
also, mustard, salt and pepper to taste; let stand until cold; 
then pour over the celery and chicken; mix thoroughly, and 
add the whites of eggs. If unable to get celery, use crisp 
cabbage, with ten cents' worth of celery seed. If you use 
celery seed, boil it in the vinegar. 

CHICKEN SALAD. 

MRS. T. H. B. BEALE. 

Shred cold boiled chicken, and measure one pint chicken 
and one pint celery; season with French dressing as below, 
and keep on ice until ready to serve. 

French Dressing. — One saltspoon of salt, one-half salt- 
spoon of white pepper, one-fourth teaspoon of onion juice, 
one tablespoon of vinegar, three tablespoons of olive oil, or 
melted butter; mix in the order given, adding the oil slowly. 
When ready to serve your salad, mix it with the boiled 
dressing given below; arrange it, and garnish with parsley. 

Boiled Dressing. — Mix one teaspoon of mustard, two 
teaspoons of salt, two tablespoons of sugar, one-fourth salt- 
spoon of cayenne pepper, one heaping teaspoon of flour; 
mix well; then add one Ggg, well beaten; and one cup hot 
water. Put in double boiler, and boil ten minutes. While 
it is cooking, add one-half cup hot vinegar. When done, 
add one tablespoon of melted butter, or Lucca oil, if pre- 



SALADS AND SALAD DRESSING . 59 

jiared. After it is cooked, turn into a bowl; put on ice un- 
til cold; add to salad just before serving. If you like fil- 
berts in the salad, pour boiling water on them; let them 
stand a short time, then throw them into cold water; remove 
the skins, break into halves; put into salad before you pour 
on the boiled dressing. 

For a company of seventy-five, use six chickens, and six 
times both recipes for dressing, and three pounds of filberts. 

BEAN SALAD. 

MRS. W. E. THOMAS. 

Cold cooked stringed beans, drained and dressed with a 
simple oil and vinegar dressing, or mayonnaise, make an 
excellent salad. 

TOMATO SALAD IN WINTER. 

MRS. DR. FISHER. 

Take the juice from a can of tomatoes, and with gelatine 
make it into a jelly that will mold. Lay a slice of this 
jelly on lettuce leaves, and serve with mayonnaise. 

CUCUMBER SALAD. 

MRS. ELIZA DICKERSON. 

Two dozen large cucumbers, six white onions, chopped 
fine; salt well, and drain twelve hours; add white mustard 
seed and celery seed; cover with strong vinegar. 

POTATO SALAD. 

MISS ANN THOMPSON. 

The yolks of five eggs, five tablespoonfuls vinegar; cook 
until thick; then, just before using, add three tablespoonfuls 
melted butter; beat to a cream. Put in pepper, salt, and 
mustard to taste, one onion (chopped fine), and three-fourths 
cup of cream. Slice potatoes thin, and pour dressing over. 



60 ' RECIPES TRIED AXD TRUE. 

GERMAN POTATO SALAD. 

MRS. BELINDA MARTIN. 

After frying ham, put one-fourth cup of the hot fryings 
into a skillet with one cup of good vinegar, one tablespoon 
of sugar; let boil a moment. Slice hot boiled potatoes into 
your salad bowl; season with pepper and salt, and que onion, 
chopped fine. Pour over this the hot vinegar, and mix 
well. Garnish with hard boiled eggs. Early in the spring 
young dandelions added to this are very nice. 

POTATO SALAD. 

MRS. DELL W. DE WOLFE. 

Oae gilloQ cold and thinly sliced good potatoes, six small 
onions, sliced thin. Sprinkle very freely with salt and 
pepper. 

Dressing. — Yolks of nine fresh eggs, two teaspoonfuls 
of ground mustard, a pinch of cayenne pepper, one cup of 
sugar, one cup of good cider vinegar, one-half cup butter. 
Boil the above mixture, and add one pint of thick sweet 
cream when the mixture is almost cold. Two small cucum- 
bers sliced will greatly improve this salad. 

CABBAGE SALAD. 

MRS. G. H. W^RIGHT. 

One small head of cabbage (cut fine), one pint of good 
vinegar, butter the size of an egg, three eggs, well beaten 
with one tablespoon of flour; salt and pepper to taste. Let 
dressing come to a boil, and pour over cabbage while hot. 

POTATO SALAD DRESSING. 

MRS. E. A. SEFFNER. 

Add the well beaten yolks of five eggs to five tablespoon- 
fuls of boiling vinegar; cook until it thickens, stirring con- 



SALADS AND SALAD DRESSING. 61 

stantly. Remove from the fire. Add two tablespoonfiils 
butter, and stir until cool. Season with one teaspoon mus- 
tard, one of salt, one tablespoon of sugar, pinch of cayenne 
pepper, one cup of cream. Use oil in place of butter, if 
preferred. 

SALAD DRESSING. 

MRS. CHAS. MOORE. 

Beat three eggs, and add a teaspoon each of salt, pepper, 
and mustard; six tablespoons of cream or milk, small half 
teacup of vinegar, and one-half cup sugar; mix thoroughly 
and set in top of teakettle, stirring constantly till it 
thickens. 

V/EYMOUTH SALAD DRESSING, 

MRS. VOSE. 

Yolk of one egg, one tablespoon sugar, one saltspoon salt, 
one teaspoon mustard, butter size of small egg, one-half 
cup of vinegar; cook till thick as cream. Add one-half 
cup of thick cream before using. 

MAYONNAISE DRESSING. 

MRS. T. H. LINSLEY. 

Take the yolks of six eggs, one teacup best cider vinegar, 
one teacup white sugar, one tablespoon pure mustard, one- 
fourth pound of butter, one teaspoon salt, one pint water, 
two tablespoons corn starch. Put the water and vinegar in 
granite iron vessel, and let come to a boil. Beat the rest of 
the ingredients to a cream; stir this into the vinegar rapidly 
to prevent burning. Put in self-sealing can, and keep in a 
<cool place. 



62 RECIPES TRIED AND TRVE, 



PUDDINGS. 



"The proof of the pudding lte:s in the eating." 



APPLE PUDDING. 

MRS. G. H. WRIGHT. 

a 

Six good-sized apples, stewed aud well beaten; six eggs, 
beaten separately; one pint of sweet cream; sweeten and 
flavor to taste. Bake with an under crust. It can be eaten 
with whipped cream, and is excellent. 

APPLE BATTER PUDDING. 

MISS KITTIE M. SMITH. 

Mix together one cup flour, one teaspoouful of baking 
powder, a pinch of salt; into this rub one tablespoonful of 
butter. Beat one egg, and stir into it half a cup of milkj 
add this to the flour, etc. Pare and slice two sour apples^ 
and press into the dough. Bake about one-half hour. The 
beauty of this pudding is that you are always sure of suc- 
cess. This recipe makes enough for a family of four. 

Sauce. — One cup of sugar, two-thirds of a cup of butter, 
two tablespoonfuls of flour, three gills of boiling water; 
boil three minutes; flavor to taste. 



PUDDINGS, 63 

APPLE ROLL. 

MRS. W. H. ECKHART. 

KoU plain pie crust as you would for pie, but a little 
larger; chop up some apples, and cover this crust; add a 
layer of sugar, and sprinkle with cinnamon; then add a layer 
of raisins, and sprinkle with bits of citron, chopped fine. 
Roll all up; pinch the crust closely together at sides and 
ends; place in dripping pan with one-half a cup of butter, and 
one cup of sugar; pour enough boiling water over it to half 
cover the roll; put in oven and bake three hours; baste ev- 
ery half hour as you would turkey. When done, the roll 
will have a crust like taffy. Take out, and serve sliced thin. 
It is delicious. 

BIRD\S NEST PUDDING. 

MRS. JOHN KISHLER, 

Pare six or eight large good cooking apples; remove the 
core by cutting from the end into the middle, so as to leave 
the apple whole; place them in a deep pie dish, as near to- 
gether as they can stand, with the opening upward. Make a 
thin batter, using one quart of milk, three eggs, and sufficient 
flour; pour this into the dish around the apples and into the 
cavities. Bake in a quick oven. Serve with butter and sugar. 

CHOCOLATE PUDDING. 

MRS. ALICE KRANFR. 

Mix one pint of rolled crackers, four tablespoon fuls of 
chocolate, and one quart sweet milk; bake two hours, and 
serve with this- — 

Sauce. — Beat one cup of sugar with butter the size of 
an egg; flavor with vanilla. 



64 RECIPES TRIED AND TRUE. 

COTTAGE PUDDING. 

MRS. JENNIE KRAUSE. 

One cup of sugar, one-half cup of milk, one and one- 
half cups of flour, and one tablespoonful of butter; bake as 
a cake, and serve with this — 

Sauce. — Two tablespoonfuls butter, one cup white sugar, 
and one tablespoon flour, wet in cold water; one pint of 
boiling water. Let boil two or three minutes, stirring all 
the time. Flavor with lemon. 

CUP PUDDING. 

MRS. G. A. LIVINGSTON. 

One egg, two tablespoonfuls of sugar, three tablespoons 
butter, one-half to three-fourths pint of water, one and one- 
half teacups of flour, or enough to make a thin batter, one 
and one-half teaspoons baking powder; mix with fresh fruit 
or raisins, and steam twenty minutes. 

CORN STARCH PUDDING. 

NELLIE LINSLEY. 

One pint sweet milk, whites of three eggs, two table- 
spoons corn starch, three tablespoons sugar, and a little salt. 
Put milk in kettle, and when it reaches the boiling pointy 
add sugar, and the corn starch, dissolved in a little milk. 
Lastly, add the whites of eggs, whipped to a stiff froth. 
Beat it, and let cook a few minutes. Set two-thirds in a 
cool place, flavoring it with vanilla. To the remaining one- 
third, add half a cake of chocolate, softened and mashed. 
Put a layer of half the white pudding into the mold; over 
this the layer of chocolate, 'and then the remainder of the 
white. One-half a cocoanut or one-half a pineapple may 
be substituted for the chocolate. 



PUDDINGS. 65 

GOLDEN PUDDING. 

MRS. FRED. SCHAEFFER. 

One-half a cu^) of molasses, one-half a cup of batter, 
one-half a cup of sour inilk, one and; one-half cups of flour, 
one egg, a pinch of salt, and one-half teaspoonful of soda; 
mix, and steam two hours. Serve with this — 

Sauce. — One egg, one-half cup butter, one cup sugar, 
two tablespoons flour, and one pint boiling water. Flavor 
with vanilla. 

STEAMED INDIAN PUDDING, 

MRS. R. H. JOHNSON. 

One-half cup sour milk, two eggs (beaten stiff), one tea- 
spoonful soda, one cup seeded raisins, tw^o tablespoonfuls 
molasses, corn meal for a stiff batter; mix, and steam two 
hours. Serve Avith this — 

Sauce. — One cup. sugar, one-half cup butter (beaten to 
a cream), one teaspoonful water, yolk of one egg; heat to a 
scald; add the white of egg, well beaten, wdth a pinch of 
salt. Flavor with lemon. 

BAKED INDIAN PUDDING. 

MRS. M. B. VOSE. 

Scald one pint of milk; stir into it one-half cup of Indian 
meal, one-half cup molasses, and a pinch of salt. When 
this is cold, pour over it, w^ithout stirring, one pint of cold 
milk. Bake in a slow oven about four hours to obtain the 
color and flavor of the old-fashioned pudding. 

BAKED INDIxVN PUDDING. 

MRS. M. B. VOSE. 

Scald one quart of milk; stir in three-fourths cup of In- 

10 



66 RECIPES TRIED AND TRUE. 

diau meal, one-third cup molasses, and a pinch of salt. Beat 
two eggs with a half cup of cold milk, and fill the dish. 
Bake one hour. 

FRUIT PUDDING. 

MRS. W. H. ECKHART. 

One quart of flour, one egg, two teaspoonfuls of baking 
powder, one teaspoonful sugar, butter size of an egg, a little 
salt; mix with milk, and roll as for pie crust; cut into pieces 
four inches square; in each piece put half of an apple 
or peach (pared); pinch the corners together; place in a but- 
tered pan. On top of each dumpling put a lump of butter, 
a little cinnamon, and sugar. Pour into the pan one-half 
pint of water. Bake, and serve with sweetened milk or 
cream . 

FIG PUDDING. 

MRS. B. B. CLARK. 

One-half pound figs, one-fourth pound grated bread, two 
and one-half ounces powdered sugar, three ounces butter, 
two eggs, one cup milk. Chop the figs fine, and mix first 
with the butter; add the other ingredients by degrees. Put 
in a buttered mold, sprinkle with bread crumbs, cover 
tightly, and boil for three hours. 

FRUIT PUDDING. 

MISS ANN THOMPSON. 

One egg, six even tablespoonfuls sugar, six heaping table- 
spoonfuls flour, one heaping tablespoonful baking powder, 
milk to make batter a little thinner than cake dough. Put 
fruit in baking dish ; pour the batter over it, and bake. 



PUDDINGS, 67 

ENGLISH PLUM PUDDING. 

MRS. W. C. BUTCHER 

Four cups of flour, four cups of sweet milk, one-half cup 
of sugar, one. half cup of molasses, three-fourths cup of 
chopped suet, one cup of raisins, one-half cup of currants, 
one small teaspoonful of salt, one heaping teaspoon of cin- 
namon, one heaping teaspoon of cloves, one-half a nutmeg, 
and one teaspoon of soda; steam three hours. This can be 
kept any length of time. When ready to use, cut off slices 
and steam one-half hour. 

ORANGE PUDDING. 

MRS. W. C. RAPP AND MISS NELLIE LINSLEV. 

Seed and slice five large oranges; pour over them a cup 
of sugar. Take one pint of boiling milk; add yolks of three 
eggs, one-half cup of sugar, a tablespoon of corn starch; 
boil until it thickens; when nearly cold, pour over the 
oranges. Beat whites of the eggs with a little sugar; spread 
over the top, and brown in oven. 

OCEANICA PUDDING. 

MRS. NED THATCHER. 

One pint of bread crumbs, one quart of milk, one cup of 
sugar, four eggs (yolks), butter the size of an egg, grated 
rind of one lemon; mix, and bake until done, but not wa- 
tery. Beat the whites of three eggs with one cup of sugar, 
into which has been stirred the juice of one lemon. Spread 
over the pudding a layer of jelly and the whites of eggs. 
Replace in oven until a nice brown. Serve with sauce. 



68 RECIPES TRIED AND TRUE. 

PUDDING. 



U. E, B. 



One pint of flour, one heaping teaspoon of baking pow- 
der, one egg, a pinch of salt, one-half a cup of butter, one- 
half a cup of sugar; mix with water or sweet milk to form a 
thick batter. Fill a pan one-half full of fruit, sweetened 
with sugar, and pour the mixture over it. Put pan in a 
steamer, and steam one hour. To be eaten with sauce. 



PEACH PUDDING. 

MRS. J. H. REED. 

Fill a pudding dish with peaches, cooked and sweetened; 
pour over them a batter made of one pint of sweet milk, 
four eggs, one cup of sugar, one tablespoon of butter, a lit- 
tle salt, one teaspoon of baking powder, and two cups of 
fl )ur. Place in oven, and bake until a rich brown. Serve 
with cream. 

COLD CUSTARD MADE WITH RENNET. 

MRS. IRA UHLER, 

Use a piece of rennet about the size of a half dollar. Take 
two quarts of good sweet milk, and warm it to the heat of 
new milk; sweeten to taste; flavor with nutmeg. Soak the 
rennet in three or four tablespoons of warm water a few mo- 
ments; then place it in the middle of the pan of milk (with 
a string attached, and laid out over the e(]ge of the pan, so 
that it can be removed without breaking the custard); set 
in a cool place until solid. Serve with cream. This is a 
very delicate dish for invalids. 



PUDDINGS, 69 

POTATO PUDDING. 

MRS. J. F. McNEAL. 

One and one-half pints of mashed potato, one teacup of 
sugar, one-half cup of butter, one cup of flour, one quart of 
milk, four eggs, and salt to taste. Flavor with lemon, nut- 
meg, or vanilla. Bake one hour. 

QUEEN PUDDING. 

MRS. T. J. McMURRAY. 

One pint of bread crumbs, one quart of milk, one cup of 
sugar, the yolks of four eggs, the grated rind of one lemon, 
and a piece of butter the size of a hen's egg. Bake like a 
custard. When done, cover with the whites of the eggs, 
beaten to a stiff froth with one cup of sugar and the juice 
of the lemon. Put back in oven, and brown lightly. 

RICE PUDDING. 

MRS. ELIZA DICKERSON. 

Wash a small cup of rice, and put into a quart of milk; 
season to taste; add one cup of raisins, and set in oven three 
hours before dinner. When the mixture begins to brown 
on top, stir up from the bottom, repeating this until the 
pudding is done. If it becomes too dry, add more milk. 

PRESBYTERIAN PUDDING. 

MRS. J. FDD THOMAS. 

Stew prunes, or any small fruit; sweeten to taste, and 
while boiling put in a few thin slices of white bread; when 
the bread is saturated with the boiling juice, put the bread 
in alternate layers in a deep dish, leaving a thick layer of 
fruit for the top. Put a plate over the top, and w^hen cool, 
set on ice. Serve with sugar and cream. Whipped cream 
is preferable. 



70 KECIPES TRIED AND TRUE. 

PEACH TAPIOCA. 

MRS. S. E. BARLOW. 

Cover one cup of "Farina" tapioca with a pint of water, 
allowing it to soak until all the water has been absorbed. 
Open a pint can of peaches, and pour off the liquor; add to 
this the tapioca, and cook slowly over a moderate fire until 
the tapioca is clear and tender; then stir in the peaches. 
Turn into a dish, and serve cold, with powdered sugar and 
cream. Cherries, unfermented grape juice, or berries can 
be used instead of peaches, and will make a most delicious 
dessert. 

TAPIOCA CREAM. 

MRS. O. W. WEEKS. 

Soak one teacup of tapioca in water over night. In the 
morning, set one quart of milk in a kettle of boiling 
water, and let it come to a boil. Stir the yolks of three 
eggs into the topioca, with one cup of sugar; let it boil a 
few minutes. Beat the whites of the eggs stiff and put oa 
the top of the cream. Serve cold. 

TAPIOCA PUDDING, WITH APPLES. 

MRS. DR. FISHER. 

Soak one teacup of tapioca and one teaspoon of salt in 
one and one-half pints of cold water for five hours; keep in 
a warm place, but do not cook. Two hours before dinner, 
pare and core six large apples; place them in a pudding 
dish; fill the cavities made by removing cores with sugar 
and a little grated nutmeg, or lemon peel; add a cup of wa- 
ter, and bake one hour, turning the apples to prevent them 
drying. When quite soft, turn over them the tapioca. 
Bake one hour longer. Serve with hard sauce of butter 
and sugar. 



PUDDINGS. 71 

SUET PUDDING, 

MRS. FRED. SHAEFFER. 

Cue cup of molasses, one cup of sweet milk, oue cup of 
suet (chopped fine), or a half cup of butter, one cup of raisins, 
half cup of currants, two and a half cups of flour, and a 
teaspoon of soda; mix well; add a pinch of salt, one tea- 
spoonful allspice, and one teaspoon of cinnamon. Steam 
two hours, 

SUET PUDDING. 

xMRS. WILDBAHN. 

One cup of suet (chopped fine), one cup molasses, one 
cup raisins (seeded), one cup sweet milk, three cups flour, 
one large teaspoon soda, a little salt; mix, and steam three 
and one-half to four houi^s. Serve with drawn butter sauce. 

STEAMED SUET PUDDING, 

MRS. R. H. JOHNSON AND MRS. J. C. WALTER. 

One cup of suet (chopped fine), one cup of sugar, one cup 
milk, one cup chopped raisins, three cups flour, with two 
teaspoonfuls baking powder, a little salt; spice to taste; mix, 
and steam three hours. 

Sauce. — One cup of sugar, one-half cup of butter (beaten 
to a cream), one tablespoonful of water, the yolk of one egg; 
heat to a scald; add the white of egg, well beaten, with a 
pinch of salt. Flavor with lemon. 

SUET PUDDING. 

MRS. C. C CAMPBELL. 

Two cups of suet (chopped fine), two cups of stoned rais- 
5ns, four cups flour, two eggs, a pinch of salt, milk enou^k 



72 RECIPES TRIED AND TRUE. 

to make a stiff batter; put iu a pudding bag, and boil three 
hours. 

Sauce for Pudding. — Oue cup of sugar, one-half cup 
water, yolk of oue egg, oue teospoouful butter, one tea- 
spoonful flour. Flavor with lemon. 

SUET PUDDING. 

MRS. P. O. SHARPLESS. 

One and a half cups suet, chopped very fine and mixed 
thoroughly with three cups of flour; oue tablespoonful of 
cinnamon, one cup molasses or sugar, and one cup sour milk. 
If sugar is used, mix with the flour and suet; if molasses, 
mix with the sour milk, to which add one rounded teaspoon - 
ful of soda. Add, at the last, one large cupful of seeded 
raisins, and one-half cup currants. Steam at least two hours. 

TEOY PUDDING. 

MRS. GEO. TURNER. 

One cup of raisins, one cup of New Orleans molasses, one 
cup of beef suet; one cup of sweet milk, three cups of flour, 
one teaspoonful of soda, one teaspoon ful each of ground 
cloves, ginger, and cinnamon, saltspoon of salt; mix; pour 
in pudding pan, and steam from four to six hours. Serve 
very hot, with sauce to suit taste. When taken from steamer, 
set in oven a moment to dry the top. This rule makes thrte 
small loaves. It will keep to warm over when needed. 



PIES. '^ 



PIES. 



"Who dare deny the truth, there's poetry in pie? "-LongkelloW. 



There are plenty of women capable of choosing good hus- 
bands (or, if not good when chosen, of making them good); 
yet these same women may be ignorant on the subject of 
making good pie. Ingenuity, good judgment, and great 
care should be used in making all kinds of pastry. Use 
very cold water, and just as little as possible; roll thin, and 
always from you; prick the bottom crust with a fork to pre- 
vent blistering; then brush it well with the white of egg, 
and sprinkle thick with granulated sugar. This will give 
you a firm, rich crust. 

Forallkindsof fruit pies,prepare the bottom crust as above. 

Stew the fruit, and sweeten to taste. If juicy, put a good 

layer of corn starch on top of the fruit before putting on the 

top crust. This will prevent the juice from running out, 

and will form a nice jelly throughout the pie. Be sure that 

you have plenty of incisions in the top crust; then pinch it 

closely around the edge; sprinkle some granulated sugar on 

top, and bake in a moderate oven. 

11 



74 RECIPES TRIED AND TRUE. 

PIE CRUST. 

MRS. ELIZA UICKERSON. 

With one cup of flour, use one tablespooiit'ul of lard, and a 
little salt; cut the lard into the flour with a knife; use just 
enough cold water to stick it together; handle as little as 
possible. If wanted richer, add some butter when rolling 
out. 

CUSTARD PIE. 

FLORENCE ECKHART. 

Pastry. — Take one cup shortening (lard and' butter 
mixed); three cups of flour, a little salt; sift the flour; add 
the salt, and rub in the shortening. Use enough ice water 
to hold all together, handling as little as possible. Roll from 
you. One-third the quantity given is enough for one pie. 

Filling. — Yolks of four eggs, one quart of milk, a lit- 
tle salt, and one-half cup of sugar. Bake with under crust 
only. Flavor to taste. 

ORANGE CREAM PIE. 

MRS. P. G. HARVEY AND MRS. W. C. RAPP. 

Beat thoroughly the yolks of two eggs with one-half cup 
of sugar; add one heaping tablespoon of flour, and one even 
tablespoon of corn starch, dissolved in a little milk; pour 
into one pint of boiling milk, and let cook about three min- 
utes; cool; flavor with extract of orange, and pour into a 
baked crust. Beat the whites to a stiff froth; add one-half 
cup of sugar; flavor with extract of orange; spread on top; 
put in oven, and let it slightly brown. 

CHESS PIE. 

IVA FISH. 

Three-fourths cup of sugar, butter the size of an egg^ 



PIES. ^^ 



yolks of three eggs, oue tablespoon of flour, one pint of 
milk; flavor with nutmeg; beat all well together; heat the 
the custard to near boiling; fill pie, and bake. Put white 
of eggs on top; sprinkle with sugar, and brown in oven. 



CREAM PIE. 

MISS LOURIE. NEW YORK. 



One cup of sour cream, one cup of sugar, one cup seeded 
and chopped raisins, one egg, and a pinch of salt. Bake 
with two crusts. 



CREAM PIE. 

MRS. A. C. AULT. 



One cup of milk, one-half cup of sugar, one tablespoon- 
ful of corn starch, yolks of two eggs. Cook milk, sugar, 
and eggs together; then stir in the corn starch, and put into 

baked crust. 

Meringue.— Whites of two eggs, well beaten with two 
tablespoonfuls of sugar. Spread on the pie, and bake a 
light brown. 



CORN STARCH PIE. 

MRS. E. A. SEFFNER. 



One tablespoonful of corn starch, two tablespoons of sugar, 
two tablespoons of sweet milk, yolks of two eggs; beat all 
together in a warm crock; stir in a pint of boiling milk; let 
it boil up once; then add a teaspoon of vanilla or lemon, and 
a pinch of salt; pour this into a baked crust. Beat the 
white of eggs with a teaspoonful of sugar; put over pie, and 
brown quickly. 



76 RECIPES TRIED AND TRUE. 

CHOCOLATE PIE. 

MRS. ALICE KRANER. 

Grate a tablespoonful of Baker's chocolate iu a dish; add 
cue tablespoonful of flour, the yolks of two eggs, aud one- 
half cup sugar; beat all together; add one pint sweet milk. 
Bake with lower crust. Take the whites of eggs for frosting. 
This will make one large pie. 

LEMON PIE. 

MRS. SUSIE B. DeWOLFE. 

Grate the rind and squeeze the juice from two lemons; 
add two and one-half cups of boiling water, three cups of 
sugar, one-half cup of flour, the yolks of three eggs, and 
one tablespoon of butter; cook until thick and clear; put in 
pans prepared w^ith pastry, and bake. Beat the whites of 
eggs with a little sugar; put over top, and brown lightly. 

LEMON PIE. 

MRS. H. A. MARTIN. 

One lemon, the yolks of two eggs, one heaping cup of 
sugar, butter the size of a walnut, three cups of water. 
Grate the rind of the lemon, and squeeze out the pulp and 
juice; add the other ingredients; put in a stew pan, and let 
come to a boil; then stir in one large tablespoonful of corn 
starch, wet with cream. Bake crust first, and turn in fill- 
ing. Beat up the whites of two eggs, with a little pulver- 
ized sugar added, and put over the top. Put in oven, and 
brown a little. 

LEMON PIE. 

MRS. E. HUGHES. 

Grate the rind of one smooth, juicy lemon, aud squeeze 



PIES. 77 

out the juice, straining it on the rind. Put one cup of su- 
gar and a piece of butter the size of an egg in a bowl, and 
one good-sized cupful of boiling water into a pan on the 
stove. Moisten a tablespoonful of corn starch, and stir it 
into the water; when it boils, pour it over the sugar and 
butter, and stir in the rind and juice. When a little cool, 
add the beaten yolks of two eggs. Butter a deep plate, and 
cover all over with cracker dust (very fine crumbs). This 
is the crust. Pour in the mixture, and bake; then frost 
with the whites (beaten stiff), and brown. 

LEMON PIE, 

MRS- JENNIE KRAUSE- 

One heaping tablespoon of corn starch, one cup of boil- 
ing water, one cup of sugar, one egg, one tablespoon butter, 
and the juice and rind of one small lemon. Make into cus- 
tard, and bake with bottom crust. 

LEMON PIE. 

MRS. G. M. BEICHFR. 

For one pie, take one lemon, one cup of sugar, yolks of 
two eggs, one cup* of water, and two heaping tablespoons of 
flour. After the pie is baked, beat the whites of the eggs 
with one tablespoon of sugar; spread over pie, and brown in 
oven. 

LEMON PIE. 

MRS. MARY DICKERSON. 

One cup of sugar, one large spoon of flour, the grated 
rind and juice of one lemon, two eggs, a piece of butter as 
large as a hickory nut, and two cups of boiling water; make 
into custard., reserving whites of eggs for the top. 



78 RECIPES TRIED AND TRUE. 

LEMON PIES. 

MARV AULT. 

For three pies, take one lemon, one egg, one tablespoon ful 
of corn starch, one and one-half cups of sugar, one and 
one- half cups of water; boil all together for the custard. 

Crust. — One cup of lard, and a little salt, to three cups 
of flour. 

LEMON PIE. 

MRS. FENTON FISH. 

Beat thoroughly the yolks of two eggs with one- half cup 
of sugar; add one heaping tablespoon of flour, and one even 
tablespoon of corn starch, dissolved in milk; pour into one 
pint of boiling milk, and let cook about three minutes; add 
to this the juice and grated rind of one lemon, and pour into 
a baked crust. Beat the whites to a stiff froth; add one- 
half cup of sugar; spread on top. Put in oven, and let 
slightly brown. 

MINCE MEAT. 

MRS. R. H. JOHNSON. 

Chop flue four pounds of good boiled beef (one tongue is 
better), one pound suet, and eight apples; add two pounds of 
raisins (seeded), two pounds of currants, two grated nut- 
megs, two ounces ground cloves, one pound citron (cut fine)^ 
two pounds brown sugar, two tablespoonfuls salt, one pint 
boiled cider. This may be canned like fruit. When ready 
to bake pies, add a glass of grape jelly, diluted with water, 
a little butter, a few raisins, and sugar if needed. 

SUMMER MINCE MEAT. 

MRS. G. A. LIVINGSTON. 

Two teacups of sugar, one teacup of molasses, two teacups 



PIES. 79 

of hot water, one teacup of chopped raisius, one-half cup of 
butter, one-half cup of vinegar, two eggs, six rolled crackers 
or bread crumbs; cinnamon, allspice, cloves, and nutmeg to 
to taste. 

IMINCE MEAT. 

MRS. B. TRLSTRAM. 

Three and a half pint bowls of chopped meat, two and a 
half bowls of suet, four bowls of apples, three bowls of rais- 
ins (half of them chopped), two bowls of currants, half a 
pound of citron (chopped very fine), seven teaspoons even 
full of salt, four teaspoons cloves, six teaspoons cinnamon, 
five teaspoons of mace, three nutmegs, four bowls of granu- 
lated sugar; mix with sweet cider. 

PUMPKIN PIE. 

MRS. C. C. STOLTZ. 

Two tablespooufuls of cooked pumpkin, one egg, one-half 
cup of sugar, one-half pint of milk, cinnamon and nutmeg 
to taste, and a pinch of salt. This is enough for one pie. 

PUMPKIN PIE. 

MRS. T. H. LINSLEY. 

One coffeecup of mashed pumpkin, reduced to the proper 
consistency with rich milk and melted butter or cream, one 
tablespoonful of flour, a small pinch of salt, one teaspoon of 
ginger, one teaspoon of cinnamon, one-half nutmeg, one- 
half teaspoon of vanilla, one-half teaspoon of lemon extract, 
two-thirds cup of sugar. 

Puff Paste. — One-third cup of lard, a little salt; mix 
slightly with one and one-half cups of flour; moisten with 
very cold water, just enough to hold together; get into shape 
for your tin as soon as possible. Brush the paste with the 
white of egg. Bake in a hot oven until a rich brown. 



80 RECIPES TRIED AND TRLE. 

BLUE STOCKING PUMPKIN PIE, 

MRS. U. F. SEFFNER. 

Steam Hubbard squash, or good sweet pumpkin, until 
soft, and put through a colander. Put one-half cup of but- 
ter into an iron frying pan over the fire. When it begins 
to brown, add one quart of strained pumpkin; let it cook a 
few moments, stirring all the time; put into a large bowl or 
crock; add two quarts of good rich milk, eight eggs, beaten 
separately, two large cups of sugar, one teaspoonful of salt, 
one of pepper, one of ginger, one of cinnamon, one of cloves, 
one grated nutmeg, and one tablespoonful of vanilla. Bake 
in moderate oven, with under crust only. Brush the crust 
with white of egg before filling. This will make five pies. 

PUMPKIN PIES, 

MRS. E. FAIRFIELD. 

One quart of pumpkin, one cup of Orleans molasses, one 
cup of brown sugar, one pint of milk, three eggs, one table- 
spoon each of nutmeg, ginger, and cinnamon, and one tea- 
spoon of salt. This will make two large, or three small pies. 

LEMON PIE. 

MRS. P. O. SHARPLESS. 

One lemon; grate the yellow rind and squeeze the juice. 
One scant cup sugar, two tablespoons of flour (rounded full], 
the yolks of two eggs, beat until light; then add one and a 
half cups of boiling water, in which has been melted a 
heaping tablespoonful of butter; lastly, add three drops of 
vanilla extract. AVhen baked, cover with the whites of two 
eggs, beaten to a stiff froth with four tablespoonfuls of su- 
gar. Return to the -oven until it is a very delicate brown. 
This makes two small pies, or one large one. 



PIES. ^1 

FIG TARTS. 

MRS. T. H. LINSLEY. 

Make a puff paste; roll about twice the thickness you 
would for pie. Bake in forms cut with the lid of a pound 
baking powder can; score in eight parts about one-half inch 
deep; turn every other one to the center; pinch them to- 
gether to hold the filling. 

Fig Filling for Tarts.— One-half pound figs; soak, 
and cut out the stems; mince very fine. To each cup of 
minced figs, put one cup of sugar, and one-half cup of wa- 
ter; boil until it jells. Fill the shells, and put on top a soft 
frosting. 

LEMON TARTS. 

MRS. SUSIE SEFFNER. 

One cup of white sugar, one grated lemon, whites of 
three eggs beaten to a froth, and butter the size of a walnut. 
Put on stove; let come to a boiling heat, but not boil. Stir 
in whites of eggs the last thing, and put in tart shells. 

PUMPKIN PIE. 

MRS. R. H. JOHNSON. 

One-half pint of stewed pumpkin, one pint of hot milk, 
one cup of brown sugar, one egg, one large tablespoonful 
of flour, one-half large tablespoonful of butter, one-half 
teaspoonful of ginger, one-half teaspoonful of vanilla. 

PLUM PIE. 

MRS. JULIA P. ECKHART. 

Line a pan with puff paste; put in a layer of Damson 

11 



^^2 RECIPES TRIED AND TRUE. 

plums; sprinkle with cinnamon and sugar. Put in the oven, 
and let it bake until the crust is done; take from the oven; 
put on top a batter made from three eggs, one cup of sugar, 
three tablespoons of cold water, one cup of flour, one tea- 
spoon of baking powder. This is sufficient batter to cover 
three pies. Serve warm. 

MOLASSES PIE. 

MRS. L. M. DENISON. 

One cup of sugar, one cup of molasses, one cup of cold 
water, one-half cup of butter or lard, four cups of flour, 
one tablespoonful of cinnamon, and one teaspoonful of soda. 
Bake in crust as you would custard pie. 

RAISIN PIE. 

MRS. J. M. DAVIDSON. 

One teacupful of raisins (seeded and chopped), one cup 
of sugar, the juice of one good-sized lemon, one cup of boil- 
ing water; set this on stove; let come to a boil; then add four 
heaping teaspoonfuls of flour, wet in a little cold water; af- 
ter it boils again, put in a small piece of butter and a little 
grated nutmeg; let cool before making into pies. This 
makes one very large pie. By doubling the amount, you 
can make three good-sized pies. The filling will keep for 
some time. 



CHEESE. 83 



CH EESE. 



" 1 will make an end of my dinner; 
There's pippins and cheese to come." 

— Shakespeare. 



HOW TO IMAKE A WELSH RARE-BIT. 

One-half piut of grated soft cream cheese aucl oue-half 
cupful of cream, melted together in a sauce pan; add a little 
vsalt, mustard, cayenne pepper, a teaspoonful of butter, an 
egg, or yolks of two. Stir until smooth, and pour over the 
toast. 

WELSH RARE-BIT. 

MRS. W. C. BUTCHER. 

Cut up one pound of cheese in small pieces, and place in 
a dish, seasoning with salt and pepper; stir until melted. 
Have ready toast on a hot dish; cover slices with the 
melted cheese. Serve hot, as a relish. This is used as a 
course before serving a dinner. 

CHEESE FONDA. 

MRS. W. C. BUTCHER. 

Two scant cups of milk; add three eggs, beaten lightly; 



84 RECIPES TRIED AND TRUE. 

season with one teaspoon of butter, salt, red pepper, and a 
pinch of soda, dissolved in a little hot water; then add one 
cup of dry and fine bread crumbs, and one-half pound of 
grated cheese. The bread and cheese should both be dry- 
before grating it. Put in a buttered dish, with dry crumbs 
on the top, and bake in rather a hot oven. Serve at once. 

CHEESE SANDWICH. 

Heat two cups of milk and one of grated cheese; then add 
two cups of fine bread crumbs, half teaspoonful of mustard, 
pepper and salt; mix it well. Spread thickly between thin 
slices of buttered toast. 

CHEESE STICKS. 

One cup of grated cheese, one cup of flour, a small pinch 
of cayenne pepper, butter same as for pastry; roll thin; cut 
in narrow strips. Bake a light brown in a quick oven. 
Serve with salads. 

CHEESE STRAWS. 

MRS. FRED. SCHAEFFER. 

One cup of flour, two cups of grated cheese, one teaspoon 
of salt, one teaspoon of baking powder, and water 
enough to roll out like pie dough; roll thin, and cut with 
pastry wheel in long, narrow strips. Bake in quick oven. 

CHEESE WAFERS. 

FLORENCE ECKHART. 

Take salted wafers, butter them on one side, and sprinkle 
thickly with grated cheese. Place in a dripping pan; put 
into a warm oven about fifteen minutes, and serve with 
meats or salad. 



CAKES. 85 



CAKES. 



'* With weights and measures just and true. 
Oven of even heat. 
Well buttered tins and quiet nerves. 
Success will be complete." 



lu making cake, the ingredients used should be of the 
best quality — the flour super-fine, and always sifted; the 
butter fresh and sweet, and not too much salted. Coffee A, 
or granulated sugar is best for all cakes. Much care should 
be taken in breaking and separating the eggs, and equal 
care taken as regards their freshness. One imperfect egg 
would spoil the entire lot. Break each egg separately in a 
teacup; then into the vessels in which they are to be beaten. 
Never use an egg when the white is the least discolored. 
Before beating the whites, remove every particle of yolk. 
If any is allowed to remain, it will prevent them becoming 
as stiff and dry as required. Deep earthen bowls are best 
for mixing cake, and should be kept exclusively for that 
purpose. After using, wash well, dry perfectly, and keep 
in a dry place. A wooden spoon or paddle is best for beat- 
ing batter. Before commencing to make your cake, see that 



86 KJXIPES TRIED AND TRUE. 

all the ingredients required are at hand. By so doing, the 
work may he done in much less time. 

The lightness of a cake de[)ends not only upon the 
making, hut the baking, also. It is highly important to ex- 
ercise judgment respecting the heat of the oven, which must 
be regulated according to the cake you bake, and the stove 
you use. Solid cake requires sufhcient heat to cause it to 
rise, and brown nicely without scorching. If it should 
brown too fast, cover with thick brown paper. All light 
cakes require quick heat, and are not good if baked in a cool 
oven. Those having molasses as an ingredient scorch more 
quickly, consequently should be baked in a moderate oven. 
Every cook should use her own judgment, and by frequent 
baking she will, in & very short time, be able to tell by the 
appearance of either bread or cake whether it is sufficiently 
done. 

DELICATE CAKE. 

MRS. C. H. WILLIAMS. 

One cup of white sugai*, one-half cup of butter, whites 
of four eggs (well beaten), one-half cup of sweet milk, two 
cups of flour, one teaspoonful of cream tartar, and one-half 
teaspoonful of soda. Flavor with lemon. 

WHITE CAKE. 

MRS. ALICE KRANER AND MISS ROSA OWENS. 

One cup of butter, two cups of sugar, one cup of sweet 
milk, three cups of flour, whites of five or six eggs, two tea- 
spoons of baking powder. This is easy to make, and very 
good. 

WHITE CAKE. 

MRS. DELL W. DeWOLFE. 

Two cups sugar, tw^o-thirds cup butter, the whites of seven 



CAKES. ^7 

egg$ (well beaten), two thirds cup sweet milk, three cups 
flour, three teaspoonfuls baking powder. Bake in square 
or round tins. 

WHITE CAKE. 

MRS. WM. HOOVER. 

Whites of five eggs, two cups of sugar, two-thirds cup of 
butter, two and one-half cups of flour, one cup of sweet 
milk, two and one- half teaspoons of baking powder. Fla- 
vor to suit taste. 

WHITE CAKE. 

MRS. A. C. AULT. 

Two cups white sugar, one cup butter, one cup sweet 
milk, two cups flour, one cup corn starch, whites of six eggs, 
two teaspoonfuls baking powder. Flavor to taste. 

SNOW CAKE. 

MRS. JOHN KISHLER. 

One cup sugar, one-half cup butter, one-half cup milk, 
one and one-half cups flour, one teaspoonful baking powder, 
whites of four eggs. Flavor to taste. 

LOAF CAKE. 

MRS. JOHN LANDON. 

Whites of five eggs, two cups of white sugar, one cup of 
butter, one cup of sweet milk, two and a half cups of flour, 
one cup of corn starch dissolved in some of the milk, half 
teaspoonful of soda, and one teaspoonful of cream tartar. 

SILVER CAKE. 

MRS. JOHN LANDON. 

Whites of eight eggs, two cups of butter, two cups of su- 



88 RECIPES TRIED AND TRUE. 

gar, one cup of milk, one cup of corn starch, two cups of 
flour, one and one-half teaspoonfuls of baking powder; mix 
corn starch, flour, and baking powder together; add the but- 
ter and sugar alternately, then the milk; add the whites of 
seven eggs last. Flavor to taste. 

GOLD CAKE. 

MRS. JOHN LANDON. 

The yolks of eight eggs, one whole egg, one-half cup of 
butter, one and one-half cups of sugar, three-fourths of a 
cup of milk, two cups of flour, one teaspoonful of cream 
tartar, and one-half teaspoonful of soda. 

ANGEL'S FOOD CAKE. 

FLORENCE ECKHART. 

The whites of ten eggs, one and a half tumblers of gran- 
ulated sugar, one tumbler of flour; a heaping teaspoon of 
cream tartar, a pinch of salt. Put through the sieve twice. 
Take one-half of eggs, and stir in one-half the sugar; beat 
until they have a gloss; then add the other half of eggs, and 
the rest of the sugar. Beat again; then add the flour and 
cream tartar. Stir up lightly. Flavor with almond. Bake 
one hour in slow oven. 

ANGEL CAKE. 

MRS. C. C. STOLTZ. 

Whites of nine large or ten small fresh eggs, one and one- 
fourth cups sifted granulated sugar, one cup sifted flour, 
one-half teaspoonful cream tartar; a pinch of salt added to 
eggs before beating. After sifting flour four or five times, 
measure and set aside one cup; then sift and measure one 
and one fourth cups granulated sugar; beat whites of eggs 
about half; add cream tartar, and beat until very, very 



CAKES. 89 

Stiff, Stir in sugar, aud then flour, very lightly. Put in pan 
in moderate oven at once, and bake from thirty -five to fifty 
minutes. 

ANGEL FOOD CAKE. 

MISS NELLIE LINSLEY. 

Whites of eleven eggs, one cup of flour, one and one-half 
cups of granulated sugar, one teaspoonful of cream tartar, 
one teaspoonful of almond extract, one-half teaspoonful of 
salt. Sift sugar once; flour three times; add cream tartar to 
flour, and sift three times. Bake forty minutes. 

SUNSHINE CAKE. 

MRS. FRANK ARROWSMITH AND MAUD ST0LT2. 

Whites of seven small eggs, yolks of five eggs, one cup 
of granulated sugar, two-thirds cup of flour, one-third tea- 
spoon of cream tartar, and a pinch of salt. Sift the flour 
and sugar five times; measure, and set aside, as for 
angel cake. Beat yolks of eggs thoroughly; then, after 
washing beater, beat the whites about half; add cream tar- 
tar, aud beat until very, very stiff. Stir in sugar lightly; 
then the beaten yolks thoroughly; then add flour and flavor- 
ing, aud put in tube pan in the oven at once. It will bake 
in thirty-five to fifty minutes. 

COLD WATER CAKE. 

MISS ANNA BARTH. 

One and one-half cups of sugar, one-quarter cup of but- 
ter, two and one-half cups of flour, two eggs, one cup of 
water, two teaspoons of baking powder. Flavor with van- 
illa or lemon. 

Longest established in Marion — Jennie Thomas, milliner. 

13 



90 RECIPES TRIED AND TRUE. 

BRIDE'S CAKE. 

MRS. J. J. SLOAN. 

Two cups of butter, four cups of pulverized sugar, two 
cups of sweet milk, two scaut cups of corn starch, four heap- 
ing cups of flour, whites of twelve eggs, one tablespoon of 
lemon extract, three heaping teaspoons of baking powder. 
Cream the butter and sugar; add the well beaten whites; 
then the milk, the corn starch, and the flour in which bak- 
ing powder has been sifted. This should be as stiff as pound 
cake. Bake in a moderate oven. It makes a very large 
cake, or two moderate-sized ones. Sometimes you will have 
to use more or less flour, according to the size of your eggs. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

MRS. W. H. ECKHART. 

The yolks of four eggs, one cup of sugar, one cup of flour, 
four tablespoonfuls of cold water, one teaspoouful of bak- 
ing powder; add the whites of four eggs. Bake in a quick 
oven, but not too hot. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

MRS. HARRY TRUE. 

One cup of sugar, one and a half cups of flour, three eggs, 
two tablespoons of water, one heaping teaspoon of baking 
powder. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

MRS. P. O. SHARPLESS. 

Four eggs, one and a third cups of sugar, three table- 
spoonfuls of water, and two cups of flour, through which 
has been sifted two small teaspoonfuls of baking powder. 
Flavor with lemon extract. 

The best cooks buy millinery goods of Jennie Thomas. 



CAKES. 91 

SPONGE CAKE. 

MRS. T. H. LINSLEY. 

One cup of sugar, one cup of flour, three eggs. Beat 
altogether fifteeu minutes; add one-half cup of milk, and 
one teaspoonful of baking powder. 

LEMOIS CAKE. 

AIRS. T. H. LINSLEY. 

Three cups of powdered sugar, and one cup of butter rub- 
bed to a cream. Stir in the yolks of five well-beaten eggs. 
Dissolve one teaspoon of salaratus in a teacup of milk; add 
this, and then the juice and grated rind of one lemon, and 
the whites of the eggs. Sift in as lightly as possible four 
teacups of flour, and put in pan. Bake about one-half hour. 

MARBLE CAKE. 

MRS. C. H. WILLIAMS AND MRS. ELIZABETH McCURDY. 

Light Part.— One and one-half cups sugar, one-half 
cup butter, one-half cup sweet milk, one-half teaspoon soda, 
one teaspoon cream tartar, whites of four eggs, two and one- 
half cups flour. 

Dark Part. — One cup brown sugar, one cup molasses, 
one-half cup butter, one half cup milk, one-half teaspoon 
soda, one teaspoon cream tartar, two and one-half cups 
flour, yolks of four eggs, one-half tablespoon each of ground 
cloves, allspice, cinnamon, and nutmeg. 

When both parts are ready, drop a spoon of light and 
then one of dark in the pan. 

POUND CAKE. 

MRS. U. F. SEFFNER. 

One pound of butter, one pound of sugar, one pound of 



92 RECIPES TRIED AND TRUE. 

Hour (sifted), ten eggs (beaten separately), one-halt' teacup 
of rose water, one nutmeg (grated), one pound of citron. 
Wash the citron; chop it fine. Beat the butter and sugar 
to a cream; add the rose water and nutmeg, then the yolks of 
eggs, and part of the flour; then the whites of eggs and re- 
mainder of the flour; lastly, the fruit, lightly floured. Bake 
in a moderate oven about two or two and one-half hours. 
Line the pan with white paper. 

HICKORY NUT CAKE. 

MRS. C. C. CAMPBELL. 

One and one-half cups sugar, one-half cup butter, three- 
fourths cup sweet milk, three cups flour, two teaspoonfuls 
baking powder, two eggs, one cup hickory nut meats. 

MOTHER'S OLD-FASHIONED CAKE. 

MRS, O. W. WEEKS. 

One and a half cups of brown sugar, two eggs, one tea- 
cup of sour cream, one even teaspoon of soda, about two 
and a half cups of flour. If sour cream is not used, take 
instead one cup of milk, and one-half cup of butter. 

LOAF CAKE. 

MRS. R. H. JOHNSON, 

One pint bread dough, one cup sugar, one-half cup but- 
ter, one egg, one-half teaspoonful baking powder. Spice, 
raisins, and citron to taste. 

LOAF CAKE. 

MRS. ELIZA BOWEN, 

Mix one pint of milk with two quarts of flour and one 
cup of yeast; let stand in a warm place all night. In the 



CAKES. 93 

morning, beat until very light four eggs, one pound of su- 
gar, three-eighths pound of butter, one teaspoon of salt, one 
teaspoon cinnamon, half a nutmeg; mix with the dough 
thoroughly, and beat for a long time. When raised again, 
dredge with flour, a cup of seeded raisins, half a pound of 
currants, one-fourth pound of citron; add to dough; put into 
the pan, and let stand to rise again for half an hour. Bake 
in an oven suitable for bread. This cake will keep a long 
time. 

RAISm CAKE. 

MRS. FRANK ARROWSMITH. 

Two cups of brown sugar, one scant cup of butter, one 
cup of sweet milk, four eggs, one and one-half teaspoons of 
baking powder, three cups of flour, one teaspoon each of cin- 
namon and cloves, one pound of raisins. This makes two 
cakes. Pour boiling water on the raisins, and let stand a 
few minutes before stoning them. 

DRIED APPLE FRUIT CAKE, 

MRS. W. H. ECKHART. 

Take three cups of dried apples, and soak over night; 
then chop them fine, and cook slowly for three hours in 
three cups of baking molasses, stirring often; let cool over 
night. Then take two cups of sugar, one cup of butter, 
three eggs, four cups of flour, two teaspoons of baking pow- 
der, two teaspoons of ground cinnamon, two teaspoons of 
ground cloves, one grated nutmeg, two cups of raisins, one 
cup of citron (cut fine), and one pound of figs (chopped). 
Lastly, add the cooked apples. Stir all together, and bake 
as you would other fruit cake for two hours or longer in 
rather slow oven. 

'^Electric Light Flour" is pure, white, and nutritious. 



94 RECIPES TRIED AND TRUE. 

APPLE FRUIT CAKE. 

MRS. T. H. LINSLEY. 

One cup of butter, two cups of sugar, one cup of sweet 
milk, two eggs, oue teaspoon of soda, three and one-half 
cups of flour, two cups of raisins, two cups of dried apples, 
soaked over night, chopped fine, and then stewed in two 
cups of molasses. Beat butter and sugar to a cream; add 
milk, in which dissolve the soda; then the beaten eggs, the 
flour, and lastly, stir in well the raisins and apples. Bake one 
and a half hours. 

COFFEE CAKE. 

MAUD STOLT2. 

One cup brown sugar, one cup molasses, oue cup boiling 
coffee, one-half cup lard, one-half cup butter, oue egg, one 
teaspoonful soda, one teaspoonful salt, *one tablespoonful 
cloves, one tablespoonful cinnamon, one tablespoonful all- 
spice, one tablespoonful vanilla, one tablespoonful lemon, 
one nutmeg, one cup chopped raisins, four cups flour. 

COFFEE CAKE. 

MRS. BECKIE SMITH AND MRS. JOSIE C. YAGER. 

One cup brown sugar, one cup molasses, one-half cup 
butter, one cup strong liquid coffee, one or two eggs, four 
cups flour, one teaspoon soda, one tablespoon cinnamon, one 
teaspoon cloves, one nutmeg, one pound raisins, one-half 
pound currants, citron as you like. Mix the cake part, 
adding soda last. Dredge the fruit with flour before put- 
ting in. Bake in one large loaf, or two smaller ones. 

Use "Electric Light Flour" with these cake recipes- 



CAKES. 95 

COFFEE CAKE. 

MRS. T. H. LINSLEY. 

One cup butter, two cups brown sugar, one cup liquid 
coffee, six eggs, one cup currants, one cup raisins, two tea- 
spoons ground cinnamon, two teaspoons ground cloves, one 
teaspoon soda, and three cups flour. 

HICKORY NUT CAKE. 

MRS. T. H. LINSLEY. 

One cup butter, two cups sugar, five eggs, one cup sweet 
milk, one pint hickory nut meats, one pound raisins or cur- 
rants, one pound flour, one heaping teaspoon baking powder. 

HICKORY NUT CAKE. 

MRS. W. C. RAPP. 

Two cups of sugar, one-half cup of butter, one cup of 
sweet milk, two and a half cups of flour, three teaspoons of 
baking powder, two eggs, and one pint of nut kernels. 

RAISED CAKE. 

MRS. JENNIE HERSHBERGER, TIFFIN, OHIO. 

Three cups bread sponge, three cups sugar, one cup but- 
ter, three eggs, one teaspoonful soda dissolved in a little 
water, one pound raisins, one teaspoonful each of cloves, 
cinnamon, nutmeg, and allspice; flour enough to stiffen. 

FRUIT CAKE. 

MRS. A. A. LUCAS. 

One pound of brown sugar, one pound of browmed flour, 
three-quarters of a pound of butter, one cup of molasses, 
twelve eggs, two pounds of stoned raisins, two pounds of 
currants, one-half pound of citron put in strips, one-half 



96 RECIPES TRIED AND TRUE. 

pound of figs chopped fine, one-half pound of almonds chop- 
ped fine, two wine glasses of boiled cider, two ounces of 
vanilla, one tablespoon of ground cinnamon, one small ta- 
blespoon of ground cloves, one tablespoon of ground mace, 
one grated nutmeg, a little pepper, and three teaspoons of 
baking powder. Bake three hours. 

FRUIT CAKE. 

MRS. T. H. LINSLEY. 

One cup butter, one cup brown sugar, two-thirds cup 
molasses, three cups flour, one-half cup sour milk, one cup 
raisins, one cup currants, one teaspoon soda in milk, four 
eggs, citron and spice to taste. 

FRUIT CAKE. 

MRS. G. H. WRIGHT. 

. One pound flour, one pound brown sugar, one pound cit- 
ron, two pounds raisins, two pounds currants, three-fourths 
pound butter, one pound almonds, one ounce mace, one cup 
molasses, one-half teaspoon soda stirred in molasses, ten 
eggs. Stir sugar and butter to a cream; then add whites 
and yolks of eggs, beaten separately. Stir in flour gradually, 
and molasses and spices; lastly, the fruit. This makes three 
loaves. Bake in a moderate oven. 

FRUIT CAKE. 

MRS. JOHN EVANS, 

Two cups butter, two and one-half cups sugar, two and 
one-half cups molasses, eight cups flour, two cups sour milk, 
eight eggs, two teaspoonfuls soda, three pounds raisins, 
three pounds currants, one pound citron, one pound figs, 
two lemons (grate the rind and squeeze the juice), two 
glasses of jelly, cloves, mace, cinnamon, and nutmegs. Mix 
flour and fruit alternately. Bake three and one-half hours. 



CAKES. 97 

PLAIN FEUIT CAKE. 

MRb. R. H. JOHNSON- 

One cup sugar, oue-half cup butter, three cups tlour, cue 
cup water, two eggs, one teaspoontui bakiug powder, one 
pound seeded and chopped raisins; nutmeg, cinnamon, and 
citron to taste, 

BLACK WEDDING CAKE. 

MRS. J.J. SLOAN. 

One cup butter, one and one-lialf cups brown sugar, one 
cup molasses, one cuj) sweet milk, three cups tiour, iwo tea- 
spoonfuls baking powder sifted into iiour, live well beaten 
eggs, two pounds raisins, one pound currants, one-half pound 
chopped citron, one-half teaspoonlul ground allspice, one- 
halt teaspoonful cinnamon, one-half a nutmeg. Put Hour in 
oven, and brown — be careful not to burn. Djedge fruit, 
and add last. 

WHITE FKUIT CAKE, 

MRS. SAMUEL SAITER. 

Cream one pound butter and one pound powdered sugiir 
together; to this add the beaten yolks of twelve eggs, one 
pound sifted flour, and two teaspoons baking powder. Grate 
one cocoanut, blanch and chop one-half pound almonds, 
slice one and one-half pounds citron; add to batter, and stir 
in beaten whites of eggs. Put in a pan lined with greased 
paper, and bake two hours. When cold, ice. 

If you use "Electric Licht Flour" with the recipe^-? 

in this book, you have no trouble. 

U 



98 RK(^rPES TRIKU AXD TRUE. 

LAYER CAKES. 



EXCELLENT WHITE CAKE. 

MRS. W. C, BUTCHER. 

Beat two cups of sugar and three-fourths cup of butter to 
a cream, and theu add three-fourths cup of water, three 
heaping cups of flour, the whites of six eggs beaten to a 
stiff frotli, three teaspoons of baking powder, and one tea- 
spoon of vanilla. Bake in layer pans, and put together 
with frost intr. 

WHITE LAYER CAKE. 

MRS. A. C. AULT. 

Two cups sugar, one cup butter, one cup sweet inilk, four 
cups sifted Hour, four teaspoonfuls baking powder, whites 
of four eggs. Flavor to taste. 

YELLOW LAYER CAKE. 

MRS. A. C. AULT. 

One and one-half cups sugar, one-half cup butter, one- 
half cup milk, one and one-half cups flour, one-half cup 
corn starch, two teaspoonfuls baking powder, three eggs 
(separate whites). Flavor to taste. 

BLACKBERRY JAM CAKE. 

OZELLA SEFFNER, 

Two-thirds cup of butter, one full cup of brown sugar, 
one cup of blackberry jam, one-half cup of sweet milk, 
three eggs, two cups of flour, two teaspoons of baking pow- 
der, one teaspoon each of cinnamon and allspice, one-half 
teaspoon of cloves, one-quarter cup of chopped citron, one 



LAYER CAKES, 



99 



cup of either walnuts or hickory uuts, vaniUa flavoring. 
Bake in layers; and fill between with either frosting or fig 
paste. 

BLACKBERRY JA:M CAKE. 

MRS. M, S. LEONARD, MRS. EVA L. FLETCHER, GAIL HAMILTON. 

One cup coffee A or light brown sugar, one-half cup but- 
ter, two cups flour, one cup blackberry jam, three eggs, three 
tablespoons sour cream, one teaspoon soda, two teaspoons 
cinnamon, one-half a nutmeg. Put in the ingredients in the 
order given. Bake in layers, and finish with boiled icing. 

BLACKBERRY JAM CAKE. 

MRS. ALICE KRANER. 

One cup brown sugar, one-half cup butter, one cup 
jam, one-half cup seeded raisins, two cups flour, three eggs, 
two teaspoons baking powder, four tablespoons sweet milk, 
one teaspoonful cinnamon, one-half nutmeg. Bake like 
jelly cake, with icing between layers. 

GRAPE JAM CAKE. 

MRS. J. EDD THOMAS. 

This may be made like blackberry jam cake, only substi- 
tuting grape jam for the blackberry. 

CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

WINONA HUGHES. 

One cup brown sugar; one-half cup butter, one-half cup 
sweet milk, two eggs, two cups flour, one teaspoon soda dis. 
solved in a little warm water and then added to the milk. 

Make a cream of one cup grated chocolate, two-thirds cup 
brown sugar, one-half cup sweet milk, yolk of one agg, and 



100 RECIPES TRIED AND TRITE. 

one teaspoon vanilla. Cook up until like cream, and mix 
into above cake. Bake in slow oven in two layers, or in 
one shallow pan; frost with a white frosting, or the fol- 
lowing — 

Chocolate Frosting. — Put enough water over a cup of 
white sugar to dissolve it; grate into it two squares of choc- 
olate, and boil until thick enough to spread. Put on cake 
when cool. 

CHOCOLATE CAKE, 

MRS- HARRY TRUE. 

One scant cup butter, two cups sugar, two cups flour, 
one-half cup sweet milk, three eggs, two teaspoons baking 
powder, one-half teaspoon vanilla; add a small quarter cake 
of chocolate, grated and dissolved in one-half cup boiling 
water. Allow this to cool before adding it to the cake. 
Leave out the white of one egg for icing between the layers 
of cake. 

CHOCOLATE CAKE- 

MRS. JOHN D. STOKES. 

Grate one-half cup chocolate; jnix with one-half cup 
milk, yolk of one egg, one cup pulverized sugar, one tea- 
spoon vanilla. Boil until chocolate and sugar are melted. 
Let this cool while making cake from one cup sugar, one- 
half cup butter, one-half cup milk, two cups flour, two eggs^ 
two teaspoons baking powder; add to this the boiled choco- 
late, and bake in layers. 

Filling. — Boil two cups granulated sugar and six table- 
spoons water until it threads; then stir into it the whites of 
two eggs, well beaten. Flavor with vanilla. 

Buy seasonable and stylish millinery of Jennie Thomas, 



LAYER CAKES. 101 

DELICIOUS CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

MTRIAM DeWOLFE. 

Three-fourths cup butter, two cups sugar, one cup sweet 
milk, three sciiut cups flour, three teaspoonfu Is baking pow- 
der; lastly, the whites of five eggs, beaten to a stiff froth. 
Bake in layers. 

Icing. — Boil two cups of sugar to a taffy; add the white 
of one egg, beaten to a stiff froth, and one ten-cent cake of 
German chocolate, grated. Beat the icing continually while 
stirring in the white of egg, and until it is almost cold. 

CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

MRS. J. C. WALTER. 

One and one-half cups sugar, two-thirds cup butter, one 
teaspoonful vanilla, two-thirds cup milk, two cups flour, 
three level teaspoonfuls baking powder, whites of five eggs, 
well beaten. 

Icing. — One and one-half cups sugar, one-half cup milk 
(or a little more), a lump of butter the size of a walnut, one 
teaspoonful vanilla. Boil until waxy; remove from fire; 
beat until stiff. Spread melted chocolate on bottom and 
top of layers, and put the cream icing between. 

CREAM CAKE. 

MRS. JOSIE YAGER. 

One cup sugar, three eggs, one and one-half cups flour, 
three tablespoons water, two teaspoons baking powder, fla- 
voring to taste. Bake in about three layers, and put be- 
tween them this — 

Cream. — Three-quarters pint milk, one egg, two table- 
spoons corn starch, three tablespoons sugar. Put milk on 
to boil; mix other ingredients together; put in milk, and 
boil until it thickens. Flavor to taste when cool. 



102 RECIPES TRIED AND TRUE. 

CREAM CAKE. 

MRS. FENTON FISH. 

Two tablespoons butter, two teacups sugar, three eggs, 
one-half teacup sweet milk, two tablespoons cold water, two 
teacups flour, two teaspoons baking powder. Bake quickly 
in three or four round tins. 

Cream. — One-half pint milk, one-half teacup sugar, a 
small piece butter, one egg, one tablespoon corn starch. 
Boil until very thick. When nearly cold, flavor with van- 
illa. When the cakes are cool, put them together with it. 

CREAM CAKE. 

MRS. NED THATCHER. 

Two cups white sugar, one-half cup butter, one cup sweet 

milk, one cup corn starch, two cups flour, two teaspoonfuls 

baking powder, whites of seven eggs, beaten and added last. 

■ Filling. — Whip one pint cream; sweeten and flavor to 

taste, and spread between layers. 

CREAM CAKE. 

xMRS. G. H. WRIGHT. 

Two cups granulated sugar, three-fourths cup butter, one 
cup sweet milk, three cups sifted flour, three teaspoons bak- 
ing powder sifted in the flour, the well beaten w^hites of eight 
eggs. Bake in three layers. 

One pint rich sweet cream, whipped with one small teacuj) 
sugar. Flavor to taste, and put between layers. 

CUSTARD CAKE. 

MISS ANN THOMPSON. 

Four eggs, one and one-half cups sugar, two tablespoons 
water, two cups flour, two teaspoons baking powder. 



l.AYKR CAKES. 103 

Fn.LiNG. — One eg^, oue-half pint sweet milk, one-half 
e'up sugar, two tablespoons flour, butter size of hickory nut. 
Flavor to taste. 

LEMON CREAM CAKE. 

MRS. C. H. 

One-half cup butter, two cups sugar, one cup sweet milk, 
three eggs (yolks and whites beaten separately), three cups 
flour, three teaspoonfuls baking powder. 

Filling. — One cup sugar, two teaspoonfuls butter, two 
eggs, and the grated riud and juice of two lemons; mix all 
together, and boil to consistency of jelly. ISpread between 
layers, and dust powdered sugar on top. 

ICE-^CREAM CAKE. 

MRS. C. H. 

One cup butter rubbed with two cups white sugar to a 
cream, one cup sweet milk, three and one-half cups flour, 
three level teaspoons baking powder, and whites of eight 
eggs. Bake in jelly tins, and put together with boiled 
icing flavored with orange. 

ROLL JELLY CAKE. 

GAIL HAMILTON. . 

Four eggs (yolks and whites beaten separately), one and 
one-half cups sugar, one and one-half cups flour, two table- 
spoonfuls water, one-half teaspoonful baking powder mixed 
with the flour. Bake in dripping pan; spread with jelly, 
and roll. 

LEMON JELLY CAKE. 

IVA FISH. 

Yolks of three eggs, and one cup of sugar, well beaten; 



104 RECIPES TRIED AND TRUE. 

one cup of flour, one heaped teaspoon of baking powder, 
about one-half cup of water, a little salt, whites of three 
eggs, well beaten. 

Jelly. — Juice and grated rind of one lemon, one cup of 
sugar, one egg, one cup of water, one tablespoon of corn 
starch dissolved in part of the water. Put all together, and 
boil in a pail of water until it thickens. 

FIG CAKE. 

MRS. C. C. CAMPBELL. 

Whites of six eggs, tw^o cups white sugar, one cup butter, 
one cup sweet milk, two teaspoonfuls baking powder, three 
scant cups flour. 

Filling. — One pound cut figs, one pint cream, whipped 
and sweetened. Put a layer of fig; then one of cream. 

NEAPOLITAN CAKE. 

MRS. A. C. AULT. 

Dark Part. — One cup brown sugar, one-half cup but- 
ter, one-half cup molasses; one-half cup strong coffee, two 
eggs, two and one-half cups flour, one cup raisins, one tea- 
spoon each of soda, cinnamon, and cloves, one and one-half 
teaspoons mace. 

White Part. — Two cups sugar, one-half cup butter, one 
cup sweet milk, tw^o cups flour, one cup corn starch, whites 
of two eggs, one teaspoon baking powder. 

MAPLE CAKE. 

MRS. C. C. CAMPBELL. 

One cup sugar, two tablespoonfuls butter, two eggs (leav- 
ing out the white of owe), three-fourths cup cold water, two 
and one-half cups flour, three teaspoonfuls baking powder. 



LAYER CAKES. 



105 



Frosting. — One-half cup maple syrup or sugar; boil to 
a taffy; pour over the beaten white of one egg. 



VANITY CAKE. 

MRS. JOHN LAN^ON. 

■ ■ 1' ' . , ■ . 

• 6 ; - -A ; 

One and a half cups sugar, half cup butter, half cup 
sweet milk, one and one-half cups flour, half cup corn 
starch, teaspoonful baking powder, whites of six eggs; bake 
in two cakes, putting a frosting between and on top. Grate 
cocoanut all over. 

DEVIL'S FOOD CAKE. 

MRS. FENTON FISH. 

Two cups darkest brown sugar, one-half cup butter, two 
eggs, one-half cup sour milk, three cups flour, one pinch 
salt; mix thoroughly together. Take one-half cup boil- 
ing water; stir into this one teaspoon soda, and one -half cup 
grated Baker's chocolate; stir into batter. 

Filling. — Two cups dark brown sugar, one-half cup 
butter, one-half cup sweet milk or cream. Cook until it 
threads. 

DEVIL'S FOOD CAKE. 

MRS. G. H. WRIGHT. 

Part I.— One cup brown sugar, three quarters of a cup 
butter, one-half cup sour milk, two and one-half cups sifted 
flour, one level teaspoon soda, yolks of three eggs, whites 
of two. Stir this together, and then add- — 

Part II.— One cup brown sugar, one-half cup sweet 

milk, one cup grated chocolate; put this on stove, let it 

dissolve, and add while still warm to Part I. Bake in two 

layers, and put icing between. 

15 



106 RECIPES TRIED AND TRUE. 

DELMONICO'S CAKE. 

MRS. M. S. LEONARD. 

One-half cup of butter, two cups of sugar, two teaspoon- 
fuls of baking powder, two-thirds of a cup of sweet milk, 
three cups of sifted flour, the whites of eight eggs, beaten 
stiff. Cream the butter and sugar ; add the milk ; then the flour; 
beat thoroughly; then add the eggs and flour, with vanilla. 

Filling. — Two cups of maple or brown sugar, one cup 
of milk, a lump of butter the size of a walnut, a table- 
spoonful of vanilla, or any flavor. Boil till it gets like 
candy; beat to a cream. 

ENGLISH WALNUT CAKE. 

MRS. MARY W. WHITMARSH. 

One and one-half cups of sugar, one-half cup of butter, 
one-half cup of water, one and one-half cups of flour, one- 
half cup of corn starch, two teaspoons of baking powder, 
the whites of six eggs. Flavor with lemon. Bake in layers. 

Filling. — Two cups of light brown sugar, one-half cup 
of water. Boil until it threads, and stir in the whites of 
two eggs, beating until it creams; then stir in one pound of 
English walnuts, chopped fine. 

COLUMBIA CAKE. 

ozella seffner. 

Two cups of coffee A sugar and one cup of butter creamed 
together; add slowly one cup of sweet milk, three full cups 
of flour, in which three teaspoons of baking powder have been 
stirred, and the whites of eight eggs. Flavor to suit taste. 
Bake in layers, and put together with boiled frosting and 
chocolate creams, or stir into the frosting one pound of 
seeded raisins, or a glass of currant jelly. Any one of these 
will make a delicious cake. 



LAYER CAKES. 107 

FAVORITE SNOW CAKE. 

MRS. CARRIE OWENS. 

Beat one cup butter to a cream ; add one and one-half 
cups flour, and stir thoroughly together; then add one cup 
corn starch, and one cup sweet milk, in which three tea- 
spoons baking powder have been dissolved; lastly, add the 
whites of eight eggs, and two cups sugar, beaten together. 
Flavor to taste. Bake in sheets, and put together with icing. 

ORANGE CAKE. 

MRS. CARRIE OWENS. 

Two-thirds cup butter, two small cups sugar, one cup 
milk, three teaspoons baking powder, the yolks of five eggs, 
three small cups flour. Bake in jelly tins. 

Filling. — Whites of three egg^, beaten to a stiff froth, 
juice and grated rind of one orange, sugar to give the right 
consistency to spread between the layers; put white frosting 
on the top. 

TEA CAKE. 

MRS. GEO. TURNER. 

One Ggg, one cup sour cream, one-half teaspoon soda in 
one pint flour, butter the size of half an egg, one cup sugar. 

Caramel Dressing. — One pint light brown sugar, but- 
ter the size of an egg, one-half cup sweet milk. Cream the 
butter and sugar; then add milk, and cook until it hardens 
in water like taffy ; beat until cool enough to spread smoothly. 

RIBBON CAKE. 

MRS. LIZZIE MARTIN, 

One small half cup of butter, one cup of sugar, two eggs, 
two-thirds cup of water, two cups of flour, two teaspoons of 



108 RECIPES TRIED AND TRUE. 

baking powder. Take out two layers in tins; leave enougli 
for a third layer, and put in it one teaspoon of cinnamon, 
and one teaspoon of cloves. Bake; put dark layer in mid- 
dle, and icing between all. ' 

JELLY CAKE. 

MRS. ELIZABETH McCURDY. 

One cup sugar, two tablespoons butter, five tablespoons 
sweet milk, three eggs, one teaspoon soda, two teaspoons 
cream tartar. Flavor with lemon. Bake in layers, and 
spread with jelly. 

ALMOND JELLY CAKE. 

MRS. GEORGE KLING. 

Three coffee-cups sugar, one heaping coffee-cup butter, and 
the yolks of six eggs, beaten together to a cream; five even 
cups sifted flour, four teaspoonfuls baking powder; one and 
one-half cups sweet milk; the whites of the six eggs beaten 
to a stiff froth, and added last, with one teaspoonful lemon 
flavoring. Bake in layers. 

Almond Sauce for Filling. — Three pounds almonds^ 
blanched and pounded to a paste, one and one-half coffee- 
cups fresh, pure sour cream, one and one-half coffee-cups 
sugar, four eggs (whites and yolks beaten thoroughly to-- 
gether). Stir all together; and add vanilla enough to drown 
the taste of sour cream. 

WHITE LAYER CAKE. 

MRS. MARY DICKERSON. 

One-half cup butter, two cups sugar, whites of five 
eggs, one cup milk, two and one-half cups flour, two tea* 
spoons baking powder, one teaspoon vanilla. 



LAYER CAKES. 109 

ICING FOR CAKE. 

MRS. G. A. LIVINGSTON. 

One cup sugar, one cup grated pineapple, one heaping 
teaspoon corn starch, a pinch of salt; stir together well; add 
a small cup boiling water. Set on the stove, and boil until 
quite thick. Let it cool before using. 

CHOCOLATE ICING. 

ETHEL CLARK. 

Beat together three cups of four X sugar; add the white 
of one egg, beaten stiif ; thin it with milk, so it will spread; 
melt one-fourth cake of Baker's chocolate, and stir into th-e 
icing. 

FROSTING WITHOUT EGGS. 

One cupful of granulated sugar, five tablespooufuls of 
milk. Boil four or five minutes till it threads from the 
spoon. Flavor as desired. Stir till right thickness for 
spreading. This is fine grained, white, and delicious. 

FIG FILLING FOR CAKE. 

Stew one-half pound of chopped figs in a syrup made of 
*OQe-fourth cupful of water and half cupful of sugar. Sprea<i 
this when it is quite thick. It is excellent. Another nice 
filling may be made by using raisins instead of figs, treating 
them in the same way. 

LEMON JELLY FOR CAKE. 

Lemon jelly, to spread between layers of cake, or on the 
top of sago or custaixi pudding, is made by grating the rinds 
of two lemons and squeezing out the juice; add a heaping 
^up of sugar, a tablespoonful of butter. Stir these together. 



110 KECIPES TRIED AND TRUE. 

and theD add three eggs, beaten very light; set the basin or 
little pail in which you have this in another of boiling wa- 
ter; stir it constantly until it thickens. When it is cold, it 
is ready for use. 



GINGERBREAD AND SMALL CAKES. 



OmGERBREAD. 

MRS. W. H. ECKHART. 

One and one-half cups Orleans molasses, one cup brown or 
granulated sugar, one-half cup lard, one cup boiling water ^ 
one teaspoon soda dissolved in the water, two teaspoons gin- 
ger, one teaspoon each of cloves and cinnamon, three cups 
flour, one egg. Put all in the vessel, excepting the water 
and egg; beat well; then add the water and soda; after stir- 
ring this well together, add the beaten egg. Bake in quick 
oven. Put greased paper in pan before pouring in the mix- 
ture. Let cool in the pans. 

SOFT GINGERBREAD. 

MRS. E. A. SEFFNER. 

One quart of ilour, one cup of sugar, one cup of molasses, 
one cup of butter, one cup of sour milk, two teaspoonfuls of 
goda, three eggs^ one tablespoon of ginger, one teaspoon of 
cinnamon. 

SOFT GINGERBREAD. 

MISS KITTIE M, SMITH- 

One cup New Orleans molasses, one teaspoon ginger, one 
teaspoon soda, one tablespoon melted butter; stir this to- 
gether; then pour on half a cup boiling water, and stir in 



mNGERBREAB AND SMALL CAKES. Ill 

one pint flour. Be sui-e and have the water boiling, and 
beat wel Pour into the pan one inch deep. 

SOFT GINGERBREAD. 

GAIL HAMILTON. 

One-half cup sugar, one-half cup butter, one cup mo« 
lasses, two and one-half cups flour, one teaspoonful cinna- 
mon, one teaspoonful ginger, one teaspoonful cloves, two 
eggs, two teaspoonfuls soda in a cup of boiling water (put 
this in last). 

SOFT GINGERBREAD. 

MRS. G. E. SALMON. 

One cup molasses, one-half cup sugar, one-half cup but- 
ter or lard, one-half cup sour milk, two and one-half cups 
flour, two eggs, one teaspoon ginger, one teaspoon cinna- 
mon, one teaspoon soda dissolved in the milk. Bake in a 
moderate oven about half an hour. 

EXCELLENT SOFT GINGERBREAD. 

MRS. CARRIE OWENS. 

One and a half cups Orleans molasses, half cup brown 
sugar, half cup butter, half cup sweet tnilk, teaspoon soda, 
teaspoon allspice, half teaspoon ginger; mix all together; 
add three cups sifted flour, and bake in shallow pans, 

GINGERBREAD FOR TWO. 

MRS. M. LEONARD. 

Six tablespoons sweet milk, five tablespoons molasses, one 
tablespoon of sugar, one-half scant teaspoon soda, one a«(i 
one-fourth cups flour. 



112 RECIPES TRIED AND TRUE. 

SOFT GINGERBREAD. 

MRS, M. VOSE, 

One cup molasses, one-half cup shortening, one cup sour 
milk, one teaspoon soda, just a pinch of ginger, flour to 
make as stiff as sponge cake, 

FRIED CAKES. 

MRS. J. C. JOHNSTONE. 

Two cups of coffee A sugar, a small teaspoon of lard, 
one-half teaspoon of ginger; rub all together; add two eggs, 
one cup of sweet milk, three teaspoons of baking powder. 
Mix in enough flour so you can work it nicely on the board. 
Cut out with cutter having hole in the center. Have your 
lard hot when you drop cakes in, and do not turn but once. 

FRIED CAKES. 

MRS. LOUISE JONES. 

One cup sugar, one cup sweet milk, two eggs, two tea- 
spoonfuls baking powder, two tablespoon fuls melted butter, 
flour enough to roll and cut. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

. MRS. G. H. WRIGHT. 

One cup sugar, one cup sour milk, one level teaspoon soda 
in milk, two eggs, butter or lard the size of a small egg, a 
little nutmeg, and a pinch of salt, flour to roll out. Cut in 
rings, and fry in hot lard. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

MRS. R. H. JOHNSON. 

One cup sugar, one cup sweet milk, two eggs, butter size 
o-f a small egg, one teaspoonful baking powder, a little salt. 



GINGERBREAD AND SMALL CAKES. 113 

Mix ill eDoiigh flour to roll in your hand. Always put a 
piece of apple or potato in the lard when frying doughnuts. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

MRS. T. H. LINSLEY. 

Yolks of four eggs, one cup of sugar, one cup of sweet 
milk, a little nutmeg, two teaspoons of baking powder; mix 
soft; cut out, and fry. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

MRS. A. C. AULT. 

Two quarts flour, one cup sugar, one cup sweet milk, but- 
ter size of a small egg, four eggs, five heaping teaspoonfuls 
baking powder. Flavor with nutmeg. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

MRS. M. S. LEONARD. 

One and one-third cups skimmed sweet milk, one cup su- 
gar, two eggs, four teaspoons melted butter, four teaspoons 
baking powder. Roll and cut. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

MRS. P. 0> SHARPLESS. 

One cup sugar, two eggs, one pint equal parts sour cream 
and buttermilk, one teaspoon soda, cinnamon and nutmeg to 
taste, flour sufficient for a soft dough. If sour cream is not 
at hand, use sufficient shortening to make it equal. 

DOUGHNUTS» 

MAUD STOLTZ. 

One and one-half cup sugar, two eggs, three tablespoonfuls 
itnelted lard, one cup milk, one teaspoon soda. 

16 



114 RECIPES TRIED AND TRUE. 

DOUGHNUTH. 

MRS. J- S. REED. 

One cup sweet milk, one cup sugar, four eggs, two tea- 
spoons baking powder. Beat the eggs and sugar well; then 
add milk and flour. Mix soft, not stiff. Fry carefully. 

CRULLERS, 

MRS. C. H. WILLIAMS- 

One cup sugar, three eggs, one-half cup milk, butter the 
size of a walnut, three teaspooufuls baking powder. Fry 
in lard. 

CREAM CRULLERS. 

MRS. C. H. 

One and one-half cups sugar, one cup milk, two eggs, 
butter the size of an egg, two teaspooufuls baking powder. 
Mix in enough flour to roll out soft. Fry in hot lard. 

SOFT GINGER CAKES, 

MRS. J. S. REED. 

One cup of molasses, one cup of sugar, one cup of lard or 
butter, four cups of flour, one cup of sweet milk, one tea- 
spoon of salt, one teaspoon of ginger, two teaspoons of soda, 
one tablespoon of cinnamon. Bake in gem pans. Add 
»oda the last thing; beat well. ^ 

GINGER CAKES. 

MRS. P. G. HARVEY. 

One cup of brown sugar, one cup of molasses, one cup of 
lard, one and a half cups of boiling water, one tablespoon 
of soda, one tablespoon of ginger, four cups of flour; mix, 
and drop from a spoon into a dripping pan. 



GINGERBREAD AND SMALL CAKES. 115 

CHEAP COOKIES. 

MRS. BELLE BLAND. 

One teaspoon ful of baking powder mixed in flour, two 
cups of white sugar, one cup of butter, one cup of sour 
milk, one teaspoonful of soda dissolved in the milk, one 
cup of chopped hickory nuts. Take enough flour to mix 
very stiff, and bake in a quick oven. 

COOKIES. 

MRS. L. M. DENISON. 

Two cups sugar, one cup butter, two eggs, one teaspoon 
soda in two tablespoons boiling water, flavoring to taste, 
flour suflaicient to roll. 

COOKIES. 

MRS. JOHN LANDON. 

One cup butter, two cups sugar, one cup cold water, one 
teaspoonful of saleratus, two teaspoonfuls cream tartar, two 
eggs, flour enough to roll, and no more. 

COOKIES. 

MRS. W. C. BUTCHER. 

Two cups of sugar, three eggs, one cup of butter, one- 
half cup of lard, four tablespoons of water, one teaspoon of 
soda, one teaspoon of cream tartar, a pinch of salt, and 
nutmeg, or vanilla. 

COOKIES. 

MRS. P. G. HARVEY. 

Two cups of light brown sugar, one cup of shortening 
(butter and lard mixed), four eggs, one-half cup of boiling 



116 RECIPES TRIED AND TRUE. 

water, one teaspoon of soda dissolved in water, flour to 
thicken, and roll. 

COOKIES. 

MRS. G. M. BEICHER. 

Two cups sugar, one-third cup lard, and two-thirds cup 
butter; mix like pie crust. Three eggs, three tablespoons 
water, one small teaspoon soda sifted with sugar; add 
enough flour to roll. Roll very thin. 

CREAM COOKIES. 

MISS KITTIE SMITH. 

One egg, one cup sugar, one cup thick sour cream, a 
pinch of salt, one teaspoon each of saleratus and cream tar- 
tar; mix soft, and bake in a quick oven. 

GOOD COOKIES. 

MRS. L. A. JONES. 

Two cups sugar, one cup butter, one cup sour milk, one 
teaspoon soda in milk, yolks of two eggs, one teaspoonful 
baking powder in flour. Flavor to taste. Flour enough 
to roll thin. 

GOOD COOKIES. 

MRS. JENNIE KRAUSE. 

Two eggs, one and one-half cups brown sugar, one cup 
butter, three tablespoons sour milk or cream, one teaspoon 
soda, one-half teaspoon salt, one-half teaspoon lemon ex- 
tract, flour enough to mix soft. 

COOKIES. 

MRS. H. A. MARTIN. 

One coffee-cup butter, one coffee-cup sugar, four eggs, 



GINGERBREAD AND SMALL CAKES. 117 

four tablespooufuls sweet milk. Flavor with nutmeg; mix 
soft. Beat butter and sugar to a cream first. 

# 

COOKIES. 

ANN THOMPSON. 

One cup grannlated sugar, one cup coffee A sugar, one- 
half cup butter, two level teaspoonfuls cinnamon, one-half 
level teaspoonful cloves, one-half small nutmeg; cream to- 
gether carefully; add two well beaten eggs. Sift the flour, 
and begin with one pint, and tw^o slightly heaping teaspoon- 
fuls baking powder; add more flour as you beat. When 
thick enough to handle, take a small piece in the hand, make 
into a ball, and roll; then place in buttered pans. Bake 
light brown in a moderate oven. 

SPLENDID EGOLESS COOKIES. 

MRS. E. S. BOALT. 

Two cups sugar, one cup butter, one cup sweet milk, one 
teaspoon soda, one teaspoon vanilla, one pinch salt, just 
enough flour to roll them out. 

HARD COOKIES. 

MRS. SALMON. 

One and one-half cups granulated sugar, one cup butter, 
three eggs, one-fourth cup sweet milk, one-half teaspoon 
soda dissolved in milk, flour enough to roll out thin; sift 
granulated sugar on top, and gently roll it in. 

COOKIES. 

MRS. LIZZIE MARTIN. 

One cup butter, one pint sugar, three eggs, three table- 
spoons water, two pints flour, two teaspoons baking pow- 
der, nutmeg to taste. 



118 KECIPES TRIED AND TRUE. 

MY GRANDMOTHER'S COOKIES. 

MRS. J. EDD THOMAS. 

Three eggs, two cups sugar, one cup butter and lard, two- 
thirds cup sour milk, one teaspoon soda, two teaspoons cream 
tartar. Flavor with vanilla. Use flour enough to roll. 
Stir only with a spoon. 

MOLASSES COOKIES. 

MRS. C. E. MARTIN. 

Whites and yolks of two eggs (beaten separately), one cup 
brown sugar, one cup melted lard and butter, one cup New 
Orleans molasses, one dessert spoon of ginger, one dessert- 
spoon soda, four tablespoons boiling water, flour to stiffen. 
Do not roll too thin. 

GINGER NUTS. 

MRS. BECKIE SMITH. 

Two cups molasses, one cup sugar, one cup shortening, one 
tablespoonful soda in a little milk, ginger to taste, flour to 
stiffen, and roll. 

GINGER SNAPS. 

MRS. HARRY TRUE. 

One cup molasses (scalded), one cup brown sugar, one 
cup butter, one tablespoon ginger, two even teaspoons soda 
dissolved in one-fourth cup water, flour to roll out stiff. 

GINGER COOKIES. 

MRS. JACOB HOBERMAN. 

One pint of molasses, one cup of sugar, one cup of lard, 
one pint of sour milk, one tablespoon of soda, one table- 
spoon of ginger, one tablespoon of cinnamon, three eggs. 



GINGERBREAD AND SMALL CAKES. 119 

GINGER COOKIES. 

MRS. CHAS. MOORE. 

One pint New Orleans molasses, and one cup butter; let 
come to a boil; take from fire, and cool, then dissolve an 
even tablespoonful soda in hot water. Pour into molasses, 
and stir. Mix in enough flour to roll, and two tablespoons 
ginger. 

GINGER COOKIES. 

FLORENCE ECKHART^ 

•One cup brown sugar, one pint molasses, one-half pint 
lard, one-half ounce alum, one-half pint warm water, one 
ounce soda, two tablespoons ginger, flour enough to stiffen, 
and roll. Beat an egg well, and spread on the top of cakes 
3ust before baking, 

SUGAR SNAPS. 

MRS. SUSIE SEFFNER. 

One cup butter, two cups sugar, three eggs, one teaspoon 
soda, one tablespoon ginger, 

SAND CAKES. 

MRS. ABBIE A. LUCAS. 

One pound corn starch, one-half pound butter, one pound 
sugar, eight eggs, two teaspoonfuls baking powder. Beat 
the butter and sugar to a cream; then add one egg and a 
little corn starch alternately until the whole is in. Bake a 
light brown in patty pans, in a quick oven. They are im> 
proved by frosting. 



120 RECIPES TRIED AND TRUE. 

COCO AN UT COOKIES. 

MRS. A, A, LUCAS- 

Two cups sugar, one cup butter, oue-half cup sour cream, 
cue-fourth teaspoon soda, two eggs; mix as soft af you can; 
roll thin, and bake quick. Make an icing of whites of four 
eggs, one pound of sugar, and as much grated or desiccated 
cocoanut as you can stir in. Spread on cookies after they 
are baked. 

LEMON CRACKERS. 

MRS. A. O. JOHNSON. 

Three cups of sugar, one cup of lard, one pint of s^veet 
milk, two eggs, five cents' worth of lemon oil, five cents* 
worth of baking ammonia. Pound the ammonia fine, and 
pour on it half a teacup of boiling water. Mix as stiff as 
bread; roll out, and cut. 

HICKORY NUT MACAROONS. 

m'rS. W. C- RAPP AND MRS. ABBIE A. LUCAS, 

One cup of nut kernels (chopped fine), one cup of light 
brown sugar; rub well together one-half cup flour, one egg 
(beaten light); mix well, and drop with a spoon on buttered 
dripping pan. Bake with a slow fire. 

Mrs. Josie Yager adds to this a pinch of baking pow^der. 

HICKORY MACAROONS. 

MRS. W,H. ECKKART, 

Two eggs, two coffee-cups brown sugar, two cups flour, 
two tablespoons water, one-half teaspoon baking powder, 
two cups hickory nut meats. 



GINGERBREAD AND SMALL CAKES. 121 

COCO AN UT MACAROONS. 

MRS. J. C. WALTERS. 

Two-thirds cup white sugar, oue-half cup water; boil as 
for candy; reitiove from the fire; stir iu oue-half pouud crys- 
talized cocoanut; then add by degrees the beateu whites of 
three eggs. Mix thoroughly with a spoou; drop and spread 
in small cakes on buttered tins; bake until slightly browned. 

CHOCOLATE MACAROONS. 

MRS. ECKHART. 

One cake German sweet chocolate, one egg, one cup su- 
gar, one-half cup milk, one lump butter size of a walnut. 

HICKORY NUT COOKIES. 

OZELLA SEFFNER. 

Two cups coffee A sugar, three eggs, one cup butter, one 
cup sweet milk, one pint nut kernels (chopped fine), two 
large teaspooufuls baking powder, one tablespoon vanilla, 
flour to roll out. Bake in moderate oven. 

HICKORY NUT COOKIES. 

ANN THOMPSON. 

Two cups brown sugar, two eggs, one-fourth cup butter, 
two cups hickory nuts, three tablespoons water, one tea- 
spoon baking powder, flour to stiffen very stiff. 

HICKORY NUT CAKES. 

MRS. O. \V. WEEKS. 

One cuj) meats, one cup sugar, one and one-half cups 

17 



122 RECIPES TRIED AND TRUE. 

flour, one egg, a piuch of baking powder; roll thin, and cut 
into small cakes. Bake in quick oven. 



CREAM PUFF8. 

MRS. T. H. LINSLEY. 

Two cups water boiled with one cup butter, one and one- 
half cups flour; let stand until cool; then stir in five eggs, 
one at a time; drop on tins by the spoonful, and bake. Open 
one side, and put in this — 

Cream. — Two cups milk, one cup sugar, three eggs, and 
one-half cup flour. Cook like custard, and flavor with 
lemon. 

Ivlfeolljb. 

FLORENCE ECKHART. 

White of one egg (beaten stiff), one teaspoonful of bak- 
ing powder to the white of an egg; thicken with powdered 
sugar to drop from the spoon; add one small cup of nuts. 
Flavor to taste. Drop on buttered pans, and bake until 
light brown on top. 



DELICACIES. 123 



DELICACIES. 



Custards for supper, and an endless host of other such lady-like luxuries." 

— Shellev. 



APPLE FLOAT. 

MRS. M. E. WRIGHT. 



To one quart apples, stewed and well mashed, put whites 
of three eggs (well beaten), and four heaping tablespoons of 
sugar; beat together for fifteen minutes. Serve with cream. 



FLOAT. 

FLORENCE TURNEY. 



One pint milk, one tablespoon corn starch, yolks of two 
eggs. Beat yolks, and add one tablespoon cream, one cup 
coFfee A sugar* Flavor when cool. 



FLOAT. 

FLORENCE TURNEV. 



Put two quarts of milk into a tin bucket, and place in a ket- 
tle of boiling water, ^yhile waiting for milk to boil, take the 
yolks of four eggs, beat, and add one tablespoonful of cream 



124 RECIPES TRIED AND TRUE. 

or milk, one cup of coffee A sugar, two teaspoon fuls of 
i-ifted flour; beat this to a creanjy mixture. When the niilk 
boils, take some of it, stir into the mixture, and then slowly 
pour this mixture into the rest of the boiling milk, stirring 
all the time. Put on the lid of the bucket; let boil for a 
few minutes. Flavor with vanilla. When cool, put in 
dish. Take the whites of four eggs; beat stiff; add granu- 
lated sugar; beat quite a while. Flavor Avith vanilla. Spread 
this over the top of the float, and on top of this put bits of 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 

A very nice recipe for charlotte russe made with gelatine 
is as follows: Use one pint of cream whipped till light, one 
ounce of gelatine dissolved in one gill of hot milk, the well 
beaten whites of two eggs, one small teacupful of powdered 
sugar, and any flavoring preferred. Mix the eggs, sugar 
and cream together, and then beat in the dissolved gelatine. 
The milk should be quite cold before it is added to the other 
ingredients. Line a dish with slices of sponge cake, or with 
lady fingers, and fill with cream. Set it on ice to cool. 

LEMON SPONGE OR SNOW PUDDING. 

# 

OZELLA SEFFNER. 

One-half box gelatine, juice of three lemons, one pint of 
cold water, one-half pint of hot water, two teacups of sugar^ 
Avhites of three eggs. Soak one-half box of gelatine in one 
pint of cold water ten minutes; then dissolve over the fire, 
adding the juice of the lemons with the hot water and su- 
gar. Boil all together two or threeminutes; pour intoadish, 
and let it remain until nearly cold and beginning to setj 
then add the whites of eggs, well beaten, and whisk ten 
minutes. When it becomes the consistency of sponge, wet 



DELICACIES. - 125 

the inside of cups with the white of egg, pour in the sponge, 
and set in a cold place. Serve with thin custard, made 
w^ith the yolks of four eggs, one tablespoonf ul of corn starch, 
one-half teacup of sugar, one pint of milk, teaspoonful of 
vanilla. Boil until sufficiently thick, and serve cold over 
the sponge. 

LEMON JELLY. 

GAIL HAMILTON. 

One-half box gelatine, one-half pint cold water, one-half 
pint boiling water, one-half cup sugar, juice of two lemons. 



ORANGE JELLY. 

MRS. O. W. WEEKS. 

Take six large, juicy oranges, one lemon, one pound loaf 
sugar, one-half ounce gelatine. Dissolve the sugar in one- 
half pint of water. Pour one-half pint boiling water over 
the gelatine, and when dissolved, strain it. Put the sugar 
and water on the fire. When it boils, add the gelatine, the 
juice of the oranges, and the lemon, with a little of the peel. 
Let come to a boil; then strain in molds to cool. 



ORANGE JELLY, 

MRS. L. D. HAMILTON. 

Soak one box gelatine in half pint cold water until soft; 
add one cup boiling water, juice of one lemon, one cup su- 
gar, one pint orange juice; stir until sugar is dissolved; then 
strain. 



126 RECIPES TRIED AND TRUE 

ORANGE SOUFFLE. 

MRS. GEORGE TURNER. 

Pare and slice eight oranges, boil one cup sugar, one pint 
milk, three eggs, one tablespoon corn starch. As soon as 
thick, pour over the oranges; beat the whites of eggs to a 
stiff froth; sweeten; put on top, and brown in oven. Serve 
cold. 

ORANGE CREAM. 

MRS. S. E. BARLOW. 

Take half a box of gelatine, and cover with eight table- 
spoonfuls of cold water, and soak a half hour. Stand the 
gelatine over the teakettle for a few minutes to melt; then 
add it to a pint of orange juice, and a cup of sugar, and 
strain. Turn this mixture into a dish, and stand in a cool 
place, watching carefully, and stirring occasionally. Whip 
a pint of cream to a stiff' froth. As soon as the orange gel- 
atine begins to congeal, stir in the whipped cream; turn into 
a mold, and stand it over in a cold place. Served with an- 
gel's food, it makes a most delicate dessert. 

BAVARIAN CREAM. 

MRS. CHAS. MOORE. 

One can shredded pineapple, and one cup sugar; let come 
to a boil; one-half box gelatine dissolved in a cup of 
warm water. When milk becomes warm, stir gelatine into 
pineapple, and add one pint of whipped cream. Whip all 
together thoroughly, and set away in a cold place. 

AMBROSIA FOR ONE. 

A. L. OOLAH, OR GEORGE VAN FLEET. 

Fill a saucer with fresh peaches, finely sliced, or straw- 



DELICACIES. 127 

berries, carefully picked aud selected; over this, place 
a measure of ice-cream, vanilla flavor. Cover all with pow- 
dered sugar to the depth of one-fourth inch. Eat with 
spoon (if your income is over twenty thousand dollars, you 
can use a strawberry fork). Serve with angel's food, or 
almond macaroons. 

JELLIED FRUIT. 

MRS. RETTA LUCAS. 

Soak two-thirds box gelatine in one-half cup cold 
water; stand until dissolved; pour one-half teacup hot water 
over the dissolved gelatine." Take the juice of two lemons, 
two oranges, one and one-half cups sugar. Separate one 
orange into smallest dimensions, removing the seeds. Lay 
bananas, cut in small pieces, and malaga grapes with the 
oranges in the bottom of mold; strain the liquid over these, 
and set to cool. 

GELATIiNE, WITH FRUIT. 

MRS. W. H. ECKHART. 

Take one ounce box of gelatine; put to soak in a pint of 
cold water for an hour. Take the juice of three lemons, 
and one orange, with three cups of sugar; add this to the 
gelatine, and pour over all three pints of boiling water; let 
this boil up once, stirring all the time. Take two molds of 
the same size, and pour half your jelly into each. Stir into 
one mold half a cup of candied cherries, and into the other 
one pound of blanched almonds. The almonds will rise to 
the top. Let these molds stand on ice, or in a cool place 
until thoroughly set — twenty-four hours is best. When 
ready to serve, loosen the sides, and place the almond jelly 
on top the other, on a fruit platter. Slice down, and serve 
with whipped cream. 



128 RECIPES TRIED AND TRUE 

FRUIT RECIPE FOR HOT WEATHER. 

Remove the rind of two lemons, and cut the lemous in 
small pieces; add two cups of sugar, one pint of boiling wa- 
ter, three tablespoons of corn starch; mix with a little milk; 
put them all together, and boil slowly for five minutes. Cut 
into small bits four oranges; put in a deep dish, ready for 
the table, and sprinkle over them a little fine sugar; pour 
the lemon compound over them. When cold, whip whites 
of two eggs; add a very little sugar. Flavor with lemon 
extract. Put in ice box to cool. 

FRUIT SALAD. 

CARRIE LINSLEY. 

Place a layer of sliced oranges in the bottom of a glass 
dish; then a layer of bananas; one of pineapple; sprinkle 
confectioner's sugar between layers; continue this until the 
dish is nearly full; then pile high with fresh grated cocoanut. 

FRUIT SALAD. 

CARRIE LINSLEY. 

Two oranges, two peaches, two bananas, a few slices of 
pineapple, one-half pound of mixed nuts, one-fourth pound 
of figs, candied cherries, juice of three lemons, one-half box 
of gelatine, one pint of boiling water, two cups of sugar, 
Avhipped cream to make clear; avoid stirring. 

KENTUCKY PUDDING. 

MAMIE FAIRFIELD. 

Custard. — Two quarts milk, six eggs, two tablespoons 
corn starch, one cup sugar, a pinch salt, one tablespoon van- 
illa; add to this one quart whipped cream, one pint each 
candied or preserved cherries, pineaj)ple, and strawberries. 



DELICACIES. 129 

Let custard cool before adding cream and fruit. Freeze as 
ice-cream. 

PEACH ICE-CREAM. 

NELL LINSLEY. 

One pint new'milk, one pint sweet cream, one cup sugar, 
one quart peach pulp (peeled ripe or canned peaches, and 
put through the colander). Let cream and milk come to a 
boil; add sugar, and cool; add peach pulp, and freeze. 

FROZEN ORANGES. 

Rub the rinds of four oranges in a pound of loaf sugar; 
peel one dozen oranges; take out the pulp; add it to sugar 
with the juice of three lemons; set it on ice two hours; then 
a quart of ice water, and freeze hard, and serve in glasses. 

A DAINTY DESSERT. 

Frozen fruit makes a dainty and acceptable dessert for 
dinner or lunch during the summer, and is prepared by mix- 
ing and freezing, the same as water ices, then working and 
cutting the fruits, and using without straining. 

FROZEN CHERRIES. 

Stone one quart of acid cherries; mix them with two 
pounds of sugar, and stand aside one hour; stir thoroughly; 
add a quart of ice water; put in the freezer, and stir rapidly 
until frozen; beat smooth; set aside half an hour, and serve. 
That is the way to make frozen cherries. 

FROZEN AMBROSIA. 

To make frozen ambrosia, pare and slice a dozen sour or- 

18 



130 RECIPEiS TRIED AND TRUE. 

anges; lay iu a bowl; sprinkle with sugar; cover with grated 
cocoanut; let stand two hours; mix all together; freeze. 
T:ike up iu a large glass bowl; lay over the top thin slices of 
orange; sprinkle with cocoanut and sugar. 

FROZEN PEACHES AND PLUM8. 

Pare a dozen and a half ripe, soft peaches. Remove the 
skin and seeds from a quart of sour plums; mash, and add 
to the peaches. Work the kernels of both to a paste; add 
them to the sugar and fruit; let stand two hours; then add a 
quart of ice water; stir, and freeze. This is a delicious dish. 

PINEAPPLE SOUFFLE. 

Pare, and remove the eyes from two good-sized pineap- 
ples; then chop into bits, and sprinkle with one-half pound 
of sugar; let the whole stand until quite soft; then mash, 
and strain through a fine sieve. To one quart of juice so 
obtained, add one quart of water and twelve eggs, which 
have been rubbed to a cream with one and one-half pounds 
of sugar. Put the mixture in a farina kettle, and cook till 
it assumes the thickness of soft custard; then strain, and 
beat briskly till cold. Freeze, and serve w^ith sweet cream, 
flavored with fruit juice. 

BISQUE ICE-CREAM. 

Put in a farina kettle one quart of good sweet cream, 
three-quarters of a pound of sugar, and one tablespoonf ul of 
vanilla extract, and allow the mixture to cook till the water 
in the outer kettle boils; then remove from the fire. Brown 
two ounces of macaroons in a moderate oven; cool, and roll 
to a fine powder; stir into the cream, and when cold, freeze. 



DELICACIES. 13 1 

LEMON ^HERBERT. 

MRS. G. H. WRIGHT. 

To one quart of sweet milk, add one pint of sugar, the 
well beaten whites of two eggs, and the juice of three lemons. 
Add the lemon juice after it commences to freeze. 

LEMON ICE, 

MRS. H. T. VAN FLEET. 

To one quart of water, add four cups of sugar; let this 
come to boiling point; let cool; strain through a cloth; add 
the juice of six lemons, and juice of two oranges; beat the 
whites of six eggs to a stiiT froth. Put the syrup in the 
freezer; then add the beaten whites. Freeze same as ice- 
cream. Stir constantly until sufficiently frozen. 

APRICOT ICE. 

ALICE FAIRFIELD. 

Make syrup same as lemon ice; add one can of apricots 
(mashed fine), three lemons, and juice of one orange, if 
Avanted. Freeze same as lemon ice. 

ORANGE SHERBERT. 

M. E. BEALE. 

One tablespoon of gelatine, one pint of cold water, one 
cup of sugar, six oranges or one pint of juice, one-half cup 
of boiling water. Soak the gelatine in one-half cup of cold 
water ten minutes. Put the sugar and remainder of cold 
water in a large pitcher; squeeze the juice into the pitcher; 
add it to the gelatine after it is dissolved; strain into the 
can, and freeze. 



{ 

132 RECIPES TRIED AND TRUE. ^ 



CONFECTIONS. 



•' Sweet meats, messengers of strong prevailment 
in an unhardened youth." 

— Shakespeare, 



TO BLANCH ALMONDS. 

Put them into cold water, and allovv it to come to a boil- 
ing point; then remove the skins, and throw them into cold 
water a few moments to preserve the color. 

For salted almonds, prepare as above; put into a dripping 
pan with some lumps of butter; set into a moderate oven 
until nicely browned. Sprinkle. over them some salt, and 
toss until thoroughly mixed. 

Peanuts may be prepared in same manner. 



CONFECTIONS. 133 

CHOCOLATE CREAMS. 

MRS. EDWARD E. POWERS. 

Two pounds XXXX confectioners' sugar, one-fourth 
pound grated cocoanut, one tablespoonful vanilla, a pinch 
of salt, whites of three eggs (beaten very stiff); mix all to- 
gether, and roll into small balls; let stand one-half hour; 
then dip into the chocolate, prepared thus: One-half cake 
Baker's chocolate (grated fine), two tablespoonfuls butter. 
Warm the butter; mix in the chocolate. When cool, dip 
the creams in, and set on a buttered plate to harden. 

VANILLA TAFFY. 

MRS. EDWARD E. POWERS. 

Three cups of granulated sugar, one cup of cold water, 
three tablespoonfuls of vinegar. Cook without stirring un- 
til it threads; add one tablespoonful of vanilla; let cool; 
pull until white; cut into small squares. 

DANDY TAFFY. 

MIRIAM DeWOLFE. 

Three cups brown sugar, one cup water, one cup white 
sugar, one tablespoonful vinegar. AVhen nearly done, add 
one tablespoonful vanilla. Pour into buttered tins. 

CHOCOLATE CARAMELS. 

MRS. NED THATCHER. 

One cup of sweet milk, two cups of brown sugar, two 
cups of molasses, one pint of water, a tablespoon of butter. 
Flavor to taste. Two ounces of chocolate just before tak- 
ing from the fire. 



134 RECIPES TRIED AND TRUE. 

MOLASSES CANDY. 

MRS. DR. FISHER. 

Take one quart of molasses (maple is best); boil until it 
is crisp when put in water; then stir in one teaspoonful of 
soda dissolved in a little warm water; stir until well mixed. 
Pour into buttered pans. Pull part until white, and make 
into sticks. In the remainder put roasted corn, peanuts, 
walnuts, almonds, or hazelnuts. 

COCOANUT DROPS. 

MRS. DR. FISHER. 

Grate the white part of a cocoanut, the whites of four 
eggs (well beaten), one-half pound of sifted sugar. Flavor 
with lemon or rose. Mix as thick as can be stirred. Make 
in balls, putting them about one inch apart on paper on 
baking tins. Put into a quick oven; take out when they 
begin to look yellow. 

BUTTER SCOTCH. 

MRS. EDWARD E. POWERS. 

Two cups brown sugar, two cups molasses, two table- 
spoonfuls butter, two tablespoonfuls vinegar. Boil until it 
threads; then pour into shallow pans to harden. 



PICKLES. 135 



PICKLES. 



" Peter Piper picked a peck of pickled peppers."— Mother Goose. 



FOR SIX HUNDRED PICKLES. 

MRS. M. E. WRIGHT, 

Make a brine of cold water and salt strong enough to bear 
lip an egg; heat boiling hot, and pour over pickles; let 
stand twenty-four hours; then take out, and wipe dry. Scald 
vinegar, and put over; let stand twenty -four hours; then 
pour off, and to fresh vinegar add one quart brown sugar, 
two large green peppers, one-half pint white mustard seed, 
six cents' worth ginger root, six cents' worth cinnamon and 
allspice, one tablespoon celery seed, alum size butternut. 
Scald, pour over, and tie up in jars. 

CUCUMBER PICKLES. 

MRS. H. T. VAN FLEET. 

Pour enough boiling water over pickles to cover them, 
and let stand twenty-four hours; measure water so that you 
may know what quantity of vinegar to use. Take them out 



136 RECIPES TRIED AND TRUE. 

of water, wiping each one separately with dry towel; place 
in close layers in stone jar. To one gallon of vinegar, add 
one cup of salt, two tablespoons of pulverized,alum, same of 
cloves, allspice, mustard, and cinnamon; put all in vinegar, 
and let come to boil; pour this over pickles. When cool, 
place plate over, and add a weight. Pickles prepared in 
this way will keep nicely a year. 

CHOW-CHOW. 

MRS. ALICE KRANER. 

One quart green cucumbers (cut lengthwise), one dozen 
small cucumbers (whole), one dozen small onions, one large 
cauliflower, one quart small green tomatoes. Put the cu- 
cumbers in brine for three days; the rest scald in salt and 
w^ater; add pepper and other spices to taste. Two and one- 
half quarts vinegar, two and one-half cups sugar, one cup 
flour, six tablespoonfuls mustard. Scald the vinegar, sugar, 
flour, and mustard. Pour this over the whole bottle, and 
seal. 

CHOW-CHOW. 

MRS. C. C. STOLTZ. 

Two quarts small cucumbers, two quarts small onions, 
two cauliflowers, six green peppers; cut all, and put in salt 
and water four hours; then scald, and drain. 

Paste. — Six tablespoonfuls mustard, one tablespoonful 
tumeric, one and one-half cups sugar, one cup flour. Mix 
all well together; add cold vinegar to wet it up; pour into 
two quarts of boiling vinegar. 

Pour this on pickles; mix thoroughly, and put in cans. 

PICKLED ONIONS. 

MRS. DR. FISHER. 

Peel small white onions, and boil them in milk and water 



PICKLES. 137 

ten minutes; drain off the milk and water, and pour over 
the onions, scalding spiced vinegar. 

PICKLED PEACHES. 

MRS. DR. FISHER. 

Wipe ripe but hard peaches until free from down; stick a 
few cloves into each one; lay in cold spiced vinegar. In 
three months, they will be nicely pickled, and retain much 
of their natural flavor. 

MANGO PICKLES. 

MRS. W. H. ECKHART. 

Use either small rauskmelons or sweet peppers; take out 
the insides, and lay them in strong salt water twenty-four 
hours; drain well. For filling, cut cabbage fine; salt it; let 
it stand one hour; wash with clear water, and drain well; 
add celery seed and ground cinnamon to taste. Fill the 
mangoes; tie closely; pack in stone jars. Then to one gal- 
lon of good cider vinegar, add three pounds of brown sugar; 
heat, and pour over the mangoes; repeat the heating of vin- 
egar two or three mornings in succession. 

MIXED PICKLES. 

MAUD STOLTZ. 

Two hundred little cucumbers, fifty large cucumbers, 
three tablespoonfuls black mustard seed, three tablespoon- 
fuls white mustard seed, three tablespoonfuls celery seed, 
one dozen red peppers, two pounds sugar, one quart French 
mustard, one bottle English chow-chow, one quart little on- 
ions, vinegar to cover. Cook slowly for one hour. 

TOMATO CHOW-CHOW. 

MRS. A. H. KLTNG. 

One-half peck green tomatoes, two large heads of cab- 
bage, fifteen onions, twenty-five ripe cucumbers, one pint of 

19 



138 RECIPES TRIED AND TRUE. 

grated horseradish, one-half pound of white nius>tard seed, 
one ounce of celery seed, one-half teacup each of ground 
pepper, tumeric, and cinnamon. Cut tomatoes, cabbage, 
onions, and cucumbers in small pieces, and salt over night. 
In the morning, drain off the brine; put on vinegar and wa- 
ter, half and half; let stand twenty-four hours; drain again; 
put in the spices. Boil two gallons of vinegar with three 
pounds of brown sugar; pour over while hot; do this three 
mornings; then add one-half pound of mustard; stir in when 
nearly cold. 

SPANISH PICKLE. 

MRS. W. H. ECKHART. 

Four heads of cabbage, one peck of green tomatoes, one 
dozen large cucumbers, one-half dozen sweet peppers (red), 
one- half dozen sweet peppers (green), one quart of small 
white onions; cut all these in small pieces, and let stand in 
brine over night; wash in cold v/ater, and drain. Cut six 
bunches of celery in small pieces. 

Dressing for the Pickle. — Two gallons of good cider 
vinegar, five pounds of brown sugar, five cents' worth of 
tumeric, five cents' worth of white mustard seed, one-half 
pound of ground mustard, one-half cup of flour, a table- 
spoon of whole cloves, and the same of stick cinnamon. 
Let the vinegar, sugar, and all the spices come to boiling 
point; add the chopped vegetables, and . one hundred small 
cucumber pickles that have been in brine over night. Cook 
one-half hour; then add the tumeric, ground mustard and 
flour mixed to a paste; cook five minutes longer. Bottle, 
and eat when your stomach craves it. 

CELERY, OR FRENCH PICKLE. 

MRS. F. E. BLAKE. 

One gallon each of chopped (very fine) cabbage celery 



PICKLES. 139 

and sweet peppers; oue cupful of salt over peppers after be- 
ing chopped; mix well; let ^taiid two hours; wash thoroughly 
till water is clear to prevent coloring cabbage and celery. 
Mix together cabbage, celery, and peppers; to this add one 
tablespoonful of salt, one pint of white mustard seed (not 
ground), four pints of sugar, hot peppers to suit the taste. 
Put in jars for immediate use; in sealed cans to keep. Be- 
fore putting away, add one gallon of good cider vinegar, 
cold. 

GREEN TOMATO PICKLE. 

MRS. F. R. SAITER. 

Slice one peck of green tomatoes, and four green peppers; 
place in a stone jar in layers, sprinkling each layer thickly 
with salt; cover with boiling water; let stand over night; 
drain in the morning through a colander, and add four large 
onions sliced, with an ounce of whole cloves, one ounce of 
cinnamon, two pounds of brown sugar. Place all together 
in a preserving kettle; nearly cover with vinegar; boil slow 
until tender. Set away in a jar. Next day, if the syrup 
seems thin, drain off, and boil dow^n. Cover top of jar with 
a cloth before setting away. 

CUCUMBER PICKLES. 

KITTIE M. SMITH. 

Wash your cucumbers; then pour boiling water on them, 
and let them stand eighteen hours. Take them out, and 
make a brine of one pint of salt to one gallon of water; pour 
on boiling hot; let stand twenty-four hours. Then wipe 
them dry, and pack them in your jar. Put in slips of horse- 
radish, and what spices you like. Cover with cold cider 
vinegar. Put grape leaves on the top. They are ready to 
use in twenty-four hours, and if the vinegar is pure cider 
vinegar, will keep indefinitely. 



140 RECIPES TRIED AND TRUE. 

CHOPPED PICKLE. 

MRS. S. A. POWERS. 

One peck green tomatoes, one dozen red sweet peppers, 
chopped fine; cover with salt water; let stand twenty-four 
hours; drain dry; add one head cabbage, one bunch celery 
chopped fine, one pint grated horseradish, one teacupful 
cloves, one teacupful black mustard seed, salt to taste, one 
pint or more very small cucumbers, or one- half dozen ordi- 
nary cucumbers cut into small strips; cover with cold cider 
vinegar. If desired to keep, seal in self sealers. 

CURRANT CATSUP. 

MRS. E. 

Five quarts juice, three pounds sugar; boil juice and su- 
gar until it thickens; then add one pint vinegar, tablespoon 
ground cinnamon and cloves, teaspoon each of salt and pep- 
per; bottle for use. You can use grape juice. 

FLINT PICKLES. 

MRS. LAURA MARTIN EVERETT. 

Use medium-sized cucumbers; wash clean, and lay in jars. 
Make a brine of water and salt — one teacup of salt to a gal- 
lon of water; boil, and pour over the cucumbers; move brine 
nine mornings in succession; boil, and pour over; then wash 
in hot water, and put to drain. When cool, place in stone 
jars, one layer of pickles, and then a layer of grape leaves, 
some horseradish, and a few sliced onions, if you like the 
taste of onion. When your jars are full, make a syrup of 
good vinegar and sugar, sweetened to taste, and add stick of 
cinnamon, a little celery seed; boil, and pour over the 
pickles. Invert a plate or saucer, and put on a small 
weight; tie up closely. They will keep the year round, and 
are very palatable. 



PICKLES. 141 

TO.AIATO CATSUP. 

MRS. G. LIVINGSTON. 

One gallon strained tomatoes, one quart good vinegar, 
one tablespoon each cloves, mustard, and cinnamon, a little 
salt, one teaspoon red pepper; cook one hour, and bottle. 

TOMATO CATSUP. 

MRS. ALICE KRANER. 

Two and one-half gallons ripe tomatoes; rub through a 
sieve; eight cups cider vinegar, one and one-half cups salt, 
two and one-half cups brown sugar, nine teaspoonfuls mus- 
tard, four teaspoonfuls ginger, five teaspoonfuls allspice, 
five teaspoonfuls cloves, five teaspoonfuls black pepper, four 
teaspoonfuls cayenne pepper. 

COLD CATSUP. 

MRS. F. E. BLAKE. 

One peck of tomatoes, sliced fine; sprinkle with salt 
lightly, and let stand two hours; rub through coarse sieve or 
colander; to this, add one-half pint grated horseradish, one 
large cup salt, one and one-half cups white mustard seed, 
one tablespoonf ul black pepper, one quart fine chopped cel- 
ery, one large teacupful chopped onions, one and one-half 
cups sugar, one tablespoonful ground cloves, one table- 
spoonful ground cinnamon, three pints good cider vinegar. 
Mix cold, and use immediately, or can, and it will keep for 
years. 

COMMON CATSUP. 

MRS. F. E. BLAKE. 

Cut up tomatoes, skins and all; cook thoroughly. When 
cool, rub through a sieve. To one gallon of tomato juice, 



142 RECIPES TRIED AND TRUE. 

put a tablespooDful of salt, one tablespoonfu 1 of pepper, one 
tablespoonfiil of cinnamon, and one quart of good cider vin- 
egar. Cook until thick. 

GOOSEBERRY CATSUP. 

EVELYN GAILEY. 

Six quarts berries, nine pounds sugar, one pint vinegar, 
one tablespoonful each of cloves, cinnamon, and allspice. 
One-half the vinegar put on berries at first. When nearly 
done, strain, and add rest of the vinegar, and spices. Boil 
three or four hours. 

SPICED GRAPES. 

MRS. G. A. LIVINGSTON. 

One pound of fruit, one-half pound of sugar, one pint of 
vinegar, two teaspoonfuls of cinnamon, two teaspoonfuls of 
cloves, one teaspoouful of alls23ice. Cook pulp and skins 
separately. 

PICKLED PEARS. 

MRS. F. E. BLAKE. 

To one gallon of moderately strong vinegar, add a small 
handful of cloves (not ground), several sticks of cinnamon, 
sugar enough to make vinegar quite sweet. Take small 
pears, and with a small pointed knife remove all blemishes, 
but do not pare them. Put vinegar on the stove. When 
it comes to a boil, fill kettle as full of pears as will boil; set 
on back of stove, and boil slowly for three and one-half 
hours; fill your cans, and seal while very hot. 

ROSA'S SWEET PICKLE. 

Nine pounds peaches, three pounds sugar, three quarts 
good cider vinegar. Peel the peaches; then put them with 



PICKLES. , 143 

the sugar aud vinegar in a porcelain lined kettle; cook for 
five to ten minutes; put two cloves in each peach; add a lit- 
tle whole allspice. 

SPICED GRAPES. 

MRS. ELIZA CORWIN, MT. GILEAD, OHIO. 

Wash the bunches carefully. Use two or three gallon jars. 
Put a thick layer of brown sugar on bottom of jar; then a 
layer of bunches of grapes; sprinkle on a few whole cloves, 
allspice, and stick cinnamon. Alternate layers of sugar and 
grapes as above until jar is full. Turn plate on top; put 
on weight; tie cloth closely over top; put in cool place. The 
grapes are nice served with cold meats. The syrup can be 
used for cake, puddings, mince pies, etc. Towards spring, 
strain all that is left in the jar through a flannel cloth; bot- 
tie it, and use through summer; use for dysentery. A few 
spoonfuls in ice water makes a pleasant drink for hot days. 

SPICED GOOSEBERRIES, 

MRS. C. C. CAMPBELLv 

Six quarts berries, nine pounds sugar. Cook one and 
one-half hours; then add one pint vinegar, one teaspoonful 
cloves, one tablespoonful cinnamon, one tablespoonful all- 
spice. 

CHILI SAUCE. 

MRS. M. E. WRIGHT. 

Twenty-four ripe tomatoes, eight onions, twelve green 
peppers, four tablespoons salt, eight tablespoons sugar, two 
tablespoons cinnamon, two tablespoons ginger, one table- 
spoon cloves, four teacups vinegar; boil slowly two hours. 



144 RECIPES TRIED AND TRUE. 



CANNED FRUIT AND 

JELLIES. 



" Will't please your honor, taste of these conserves? " — Shakespeare. 



CANNED FRUIT IN GENERAL. 

MRS. F. E. BLAKE. 

For peaches, for instance, set on the stove a kettle of cold 
water — just enough so the can will not tip over; into this 
kettle, put one-half dozen nails to keep the can from touch- 
ing the bottom; then fill the can full of peaches, cut in 
halves; then fill the can with cold water; add tAvo table- 
spoonfuls of sugar, and set in kettle to boil; let boil until the 
fruit is tender, but not enough to break while cooking. 
When done nicely, put the top on the can, and set away. 

RASPBERRY JAM. 

MRS. E. S. 

Weigh equal parts of fruit and sugar. Put the fruit into 
a preserving pan, and mash with a silver or wooden spoon; 



CANNED FRUIT AND JELLIES. 145 

let boil up; tlieu add the sugar; stir all the time while cook- 
ing. Strawberry or blackberry jam is made the same way. 
Thirty or forty minutes is sufficient time for cooking. 

TO PRESERVE PEACHES. 

L. D. 

Take equal portions of peaches and sugar; pare, stone, 
and quarter the fruit. Put the sugar with the peaches; let 
stand over night. In the morning, boil slowly in preserv- 
ing kettle one hour and three-fourths; skim well. 

TO PRESERVE QUINCES. 

L. D. 

Pare and core. Be sure you get out all the seeds. Boil 
the skins and cores one hour; then strain through a coarse 
cloth; boil your quinces in this juice until tender; drain 
them out; add the weight of the quinces in sugar to this 
syrup; boil, and skim until clear; then put in the quinces. 
Boil three hours slowly. 

TOMATO BUTTER. 

MRS. J. KISHLER. 

To one quart of tomato, add one pint of apple; put both 
through sieve; one quart of sugar, some ground cinnamon; 
cook until it begins to look like a preserve. 

ORANGE MARMALADE. 

MRS. DR. TRUE. 

To eighteen ripe oranges, use six pounds best white sugar. 

grate the peel from four oranges; reserve for marmalade. 

(The rinds of the remainder will not be used). Pare the 

fruit, removing the white skin as well as the yellow; slice 

20 



146 RECIPES TRIED AND TRUE. 

the oranges; remove all seeds. Put the fruit and grated 
peel into a preserving kettle; boil until reduced to a smooth 
mass; rub quickly through a colander; stir in the sugar; re- 
turn to the stove; boil fast, stirring constantly, one-half 
hour, or until thick. Put in glasses, or jars; cover closely 
when cold. 

CURRANT JELLY. 

MISS KITTIE SMITH. 

A French Confectioner's Recipe. — Allow one pound 
of sugar to one pint of juice. Boil the juice five minutes, 
and add the sugar, which has been previously well heated; 
boil one minute, stirring carefully. Always a success. 

CURRANT JELLY. 

MRS. DPv. TRUE. 

Weigh the currants on the stems. Do not wash them, 
but carefully remove all leaves, or whatever may adhere to 
them. Put a few of the currants into kettle (porcelain lined 
or granite iron); mash them to secure juice to keep from 
burning; add the remainder of the fruit, and boil freely for 
twenty-five minutes, stirring occasionally; strain through a 
three-cornered bag of strong texture, putting the liquid in 
earthen or wooden vessels (never in tin). Return the 
strained liquid to the kettle without the trouble of measur- 
ing; let it boil well for a moment or two; add half the amount 
of granulated or loaf sugar. As soon as the sugar is dissolved, 
the jelly is done. Put in glasses. 

PINEAPPLE JAM. 

Peel, grate, and weigh the apple. Put pound to pound 
of pineapple and sugar. Boil it in a preserving kettle thirty 
or forty minutes. 



CANNED FRUIT AND JELLIES. 147 

CRABAPPLE JELLY. 

Boil the apples, with just enough water to cover them, 
uutil tender; mash with a spoon, and strain out the juice. 
Take a pint of juice to a pound of sugar; boil thirty min- 
utes, and strain through a hair sieve. 

ROSE GERANIUM JELLY. 

MRS. SAMUEL BARTRAM. 

Drop one large or two small leaves of rose geranium plant 
into a quart of apple jelly a few moments before it is done, 
and you will add a novel and peculiarly delightful flavor to 
the jelly. 

CRABAPPLE MARMALADE. 

Boil the apples in a kettle until soft, with just enough 
water to cover them; mash, and strain through a coarse 
sieve. Take a pound of apple to a pound of sugar; boil 
half an hour, and put into jars. 

CRANBERRY JELLY. 

MRS. G. A. LIVINGSTON. 

One pound of sugar to each pint of juice; boil, and skim. 
Test by dropping a little into cold water; when it does not 
mingle with the water, it is done. 

APPLE JELLY. 

MRS. E. SEFFNER. 

Ten quarts of sour apples, stewed very soft in suflicient 
water to cover the fruit; drain over night through a flannel 
bag, without pressing; add one pint of sugar to each pint of 
juice, and three sliced lemons; boil twenty minutes; strain 
into glasses or bowls. 



148 RECIPES TRIED AND TRUE. 

PEAR MARMALADE. 

MRS. E. SEFFNER. 

Excellent for Tarts. — Pare and core, then boil the 
pears to a pulp. Take half their weight of sugar; put it 
into the kettle with a little water; boil until like taffy; skim 
while boiling; add the pulp of the pears, about four drops 
of essence of cloves; boil up once or twice. 

PRESERVED STRAWBERRIES. 

MRS. KATE MARTIN, TIFFIN, OHIO. 

Use one pound of granulated sugar to each quart of ber- 
ries. Make a syrup of the sugar, and sufficient water to 
moisten it. While boiling, drop in the berries, and let them 
boil ten minutes. Skim out the fruit, and put it on a plat- 
ter. Boil the syrup ten minutes longer; then pour it over 
the berries, and set where it will get the sun for two days. 
Put in jelly glasses, and seal. Made in this way, the fruit 
retains both color and flavor. 

TO PRESERVE RASPBERRIES AND STRAW- 
BERRIES. 

L. D. 

Put pound to pound of sugar and fruit; let stand over 
night. In the morning, boil all together fifteen minutes. 
Skim out the berries; boil the syrup till thick and clear; 
pour over the fruit. 

For millinery go to Jennie Thomas, the oldest and best. 



CANNED FRUITS AND JELLIES. 149 

CANNED STRAWBERRIES. 

MRS. G. A. LIVINGSTON. 

For every quart of strawberries, take one pint of sugar; 
add a tablespoonful or two of water. Let sugar dissolve; 
then add fruit, and let boil. Can immediately in air-tight 
glass cans. 

CHOPPED QUINCES. 

MRS. ELIZA DICKERSON. 

Pare the quinces; cut in small squares; cover with water, 
and stew until tender; pour into a colander, and drain. To 
each pint of the juice, add three-fourths pint of sugar. Let 
boil, and skim well for ten or fifteen minutes; then put in 
the quinces; cook until the syrup begins to jell. Put in 
glasses, and seal same as jelly. 

CANNED PINEAPPLE. 

MRS. LULU DANN. 

Take equal measurements of shredded pineapple and su- 
gar. Place in a crock alternately, a layer of shredded pine- 
apple and one of sugar; let this stand over night. In the 
morning, drain off the juice, and to three cups of juice, add 
one cup of water. After this mixture comes to a boil, put 
in the pulp of your pineapple, and let boil up (not cook). 
Seal in self sealing jars. 



150 RECIPES TRIED AND TRUE. 



BEVERAGES. 



The cup that cheers, but not inebriates." 
" Polly, put the kettle on." 



COOLING DRINK FOR INVALIDS. 

MRS. RETTA LUCAS. 

Two teaspoonfuls arrow root wet with a little cold water,, 
three tablespooot'uls white sugar, juice of half a lemon, and 
a small piece of rind; stir quickly while you fill a quart 
pitcher with boiling water. This is a cooling and nutritious 
drink for the sick. 

RASPBERRY VINEGAR. 

MRS. E. S. 

To nine quarts of mashed berries, add one quart of good 
vinegar; let stand from four days to a week; then squeeze 
out the juice. Add one quart of sugar to each quart of 
juice. Boil fifteen minutes; then bottle tightly. 

CHOCOLATE. 

MRS. W. E. THOMAS. 

Scrape fine two ounces (two squares) unsweetened choco- 



CANNED FRUITS AND JELLIES. 151 

late. Use Walter Baker & Co.'s No. 1 cbocolate. Put 
into a granite ware pan; add a small cup of sugar, a pinch 
of salt, and two tabl.:?spoons of hot water; let this boil, stir- 
ring it constantly, until it is smooth and glossy, like a cara- 
mel; then add one large pint of good rich milk, and one pint 
of hot water; let this come to a boil, stirring constantly; add 
a tablespoon of corn starch dissolved in a little cold milk or 
water. When this boils, serve at once, with whipped cream, 
flavored with a little vanilla. 

If you cannot have the whipped cream, pour your choco- 
late from one pitcher into another, or beat with a whisk un- 
til frothy. If you have to. use skimmed milk, take more 
milk and less water. Never omit the salt, as it is very es- 
sential to the flavor. 

COFFEE. 

EUGENE DeWOLFE. 

Allow one tablespoonful to each cupful. Moisten with 
whole or half well beaten egg; pour on half pint cold water; 
let this come to boiling point; then fill up with boiling wa- 
ter. - Stop up the nose of the coffee pot, and let stand on 
stove fifteen to twentv minutes. 

INVALID COFFEE. 

MRS. S. A. POWERS. 

Three cups warm water, one cup baking molasses. Take 
as much fresh, new bran as this will moisten (not wet); mix 
thoroughly, and brown in oven exactly like coffee; add to 
this two pounds of mixed ground Rio and Java coffee; then 
stir in three well baaten eggs. You will have about ten 
quarts of mixture when done. 

For Using. — Take one tablespoonful of this mixture to 
a cup of boiling water; let boil from fifteen to twenty 
minutes. 



152 KECIPES TRIED AND TRUE. 



BREAD. 



'The very staff of life; the comfort of the husbandj the pride of the wife. 



DRY YEAST. 

MRS. W. H. ECKHART, 

A large handful of hops put into one quart of water; 
cover, and let boil five minutes; strain over one pint of flour; 
beat until your arm aches, and the batter is smooth, ^yhen 
cool, add a cake of good yeast. When perfectly light, mix 
stiff with white corn meal, and a little flour; roll out on the 
kneading board; cut in cakes, and dry. Turn them often. 

EVER-KEADY YEAST. 

MRS. W. H. F. 

Four good-sized perfect potatoes; pare and grate them 
quickly. Pour boiling water over the grated potato until it 
thickens like starch; let cool a few moments; then stir in 
flour to thicken. When milk warm, put in one or two cakes 
of dry yeast, previously dissolved in a cup of water; let 
atand twenty-four hours. Use one pint of this with four 



BREAD. 153 

pints of water for four loaves of bread. Make the sponge 
either at bed time, or early in the morning. Will keep in 
a cool place two weeks. 

SWEET YEAST. 

MRS. SUSIE SEFFNER. 

Bail four large potatoes in two quarts of water. When 
done, mash the potatoes, and add one cup of sugar, one-half 
cup of salt, one-half cup of flour. Boil one pint of hops in 
the water in which the potatoes were boiled until strength 
is out; then strain in the jar with other ingredients; stir 
well. When cool, add one cup of yeast, or one cake of dry 
yeast; let raise, and put in jar. Keep in cool place. 

GOOD BREAD. 

MRS. SUSIE SEFFNER. 

Take six good-sized potatoes; cook until very soft; take 
from the water, and mash until creamy; turn the water over 
the potato scalding hot, and stir in flour until the consist- 
ency of cake batter. When cool, stir in one cup of good 
yeast dissolved in a little warm water; let rise over night. 
First thing in the morning, heat two quarts of water milk 
warm; add to the yeast; then stir in flour to make a tliick 
sponge-; let rise; then work to a stiff dough; let rise again; 
knead down; let rise again; make into loaves. When light, 
bake from three quarters to one hour. This makes a large 
baking. 

AN EASY WAY TO MAKE GOOD BREAD. 

MRS. G. E. SALMON. 

For Three Loaves. — Take three medium-sized potatoes; 

boil, and mash fine; add two tablespoons of flour; scald with 

21 



154 RECIPES TRIED AND TRUE. 

potato water; add oue tablespoon of salt, one of lard, and 
two of sugar. Have oue quart of this, and when lukewarm, 
add oue cake of yeast, dissolved. Prepare this at noon; let 
stand till morning, stirring two or three times. In the 
morning, have the flour warm; mix till stiff enough to knead 
on the board, and knead thoroughly for half an hour; rub 
melted lard over top, and set in a warm place to rise. When 
light, make into loaves, handling as little as possible; rub 
melted lard over top, and let rise again. Bake fifty min- 
utes. When taken from the oven, rub the tops of loaves 
over with butter. This will keep the crust soft. 

COFFEE CAKE. 

MRS. U. F. SEFFNER. 

When the bread is ready for the pans, leave about what 
you would use for one loaf in the bowl; into that, work one- 
half cup butter, one-half cup sugar, the yolks of two eggs, 
and the white of one egg; work thoroughly; set to rise. 
When light, handle carefully; don't work or roll it; make 
into cakes with the hands; put into pie plates; grease the 
tops with butter; sprinkle on fine bread crumbs, sugar, and 
cinnamon, mixed. When perfectly light, bake twenty or 
twenty-five minutes. 

BREAD. 

MRS. BELLE BLAND. 

For Four Loaves of Bread. — -Peel five good-sized po- 
tatoes; boil until soft, and mash through a colander; then 
two tablespoonfuls of sugar, one of salt: and five pints of 
water. When about cold, add one and one-half medium- 
sized cakes of yeast, which have been well soaked. Let 
this stand in a warm place twenty-four hours. In the morn- 
ing, mix stiff; knead well; let it rise until light; mold into 



BREAD. 155 

loaves, and when raised again, bake in a moderately hot 
oven one hour. 

COMMUNION BREAD. 

MRS. S. A. YOUNG. 

Take one pint flour, one-half teaspoonful baking powder, 
a little salt, a teaspoonful butter; rub all together, and then 
put in enough water to make a stiff dough. Cut dough in 
two pieces; roll to thickness of heavy pie crust; lay on white 
paper, and cut into strips one-fourth inch wide. Bake be- 
tween papers in slow oven. 

CINNAMON BREAD. 

Take flour as for making biscuit; add a cupful of yeast 
sponge, two well beaten eggs, a quart of lukewarm water, 
and a cupful of sugar. Salt and knead same as light dough, 
and set to rise. When it is ready to make out, roll into 
thin cakes; place in well buttered pans, and let it rise again. 
Bake to a light brown on top, and when done, spread a 
cream over it, as follows: White of an egg, beaten to stiff 
froth; add teaspoonful of ground cinnamon, and a table- 
spoonful of granulated sugar. When this is done, put the 
bread again in the oven to dry the cream. This is delicious, 

GRAHAM BREAD. 

MRS. A. C. AULT. 

Two cups graham flour, one cup buttermilk, one-half cup 
sugar, one egg, one teaspoonful soda, one tablespoonful but- 
ter, a pinch salt. 

GRAHAM BREAD. 

One cup sponge, one cup warm water, one-fourth cup 
molasses, two tablespoons melted butter. Thicken with 



156 RECIPES TRIED AND TRUE. 

equal quantities of graham, and flour just enough to form a 
loaf; then raise. ' 

BROAVN BREAD. 

MRS. MARY DICKERSON. 

Three cups of sweet milk, three cups of graham flour, one 
and one-half cups of corn meal, one cup of molasses, one 
teaspoon of salt, one teaspoon of soda. Steam for three 
hours in four one pound baking powder cans, with the 
covers on. 

BOSTON BROWN BREAD. 

MRS. JOHN ROBINSON. 

One and one-half pints sour milk, one cup baking mo- 
lasses, two teaspoonfuls soda (one in the milk, one in the 
molasses); beat well before putting together. One teaspoon - 
ful salt, four cups graham flour, one teaspoonful baking 
powder in the flour. Steam two and one-half hours; remove 
the lids, and set in the oven one-half hour. Five canfuls. 

BOSTON BROWN BREAD. 

MRS. S. E. BARLOW. 

One and one-half pints sour milk, one cup baking mo- 
lasses, scant teaspoon soda in each; foam separately. Four 
cups graham flour, one teaspoon baking powder, one tea- 
spoon salt. Put in one pound baking powder cans; steam 
two and one-half hours, and bake half hour. 

CORN BREAD. 

MRS. SAMUEL SAITER. 

Mix together one and two-third cups corn meal, one-third 
cup flour, one-fourth cup sugar, one teaspoonful salt. Beat 



BREAD. 157 

two eggs until light, and add to them one cup sour milk, 
and one cup sweet milk in which one teaspoouful soda has 
been dissolved; mix thoroughly. Have the frying pan very 
hot, with two tablespoon fuls butter; pour the batter into it; 
then pour into this mixture another cup of sweet milk, but 
do not stir the cake. Place pan into hot oven, and bake 
one-half hour. 

CORN BREAD. 

xMRS. SALMON. 

Two heaping cups corn meal, one heaping cup flour, two 
teaspoons baking powder sifted with flour, whites and yolks 
of three eggs beaten separately, two and one-half cups sweet 
milk, one tablespoon melted butter, one tablespoon white 
sugar, one teaspoon salt. Bake steadily in a moderately 
hot oven. 

CORN BREAD. 

MRS. A. C. AULT. 

One and one-half pints corn meal, one-half pint flour, 
one tablespoonful sugar, one teaspoonful salt, two heaping 
teaspoons baking powder, one tablespoonful lard, one and 
one-fourth pints milk, two eggs. Sift together corn meal, 
flour, sugar, salt, and baking powder; rub in lard cold; add 
the egg] mix to a moderately stiff batter. Bake in rather 
hot oven thirty minutes. 

CORN BREAD. 

MRS. C. H. WILLIAMS. 

Two cups sweet milk, one egg, one and one-half teacups 
wheat flour, two teacups Indian meal, two tablespoonfuls 
sugar, a little salt, four teaspoonfuls cream tartar put in 
with flour, two teaspoonfuls soda dissolved in warm water; 
add this last. Bake in gem pans in a quick oven. 

Darmody & McClure's Premium Corn Meal should be 
used w^ith these recipes. 



158 KECIPES TRIED AND TRUE. 

CORN BREAD. 

MRS. F. E. H. SELLERS. 

One pint buttermilk, one pint corn meal, one pint flour, 
one teaspoonful salt, two teaspoonfuls soda in milk, six 
tablespooufuls molasses, one egg. Bake in slow oven thirty 
minutes. 

STEAMED CORN BREAD. 

MRS. CHAS. MOORE. 

Two cupfuls new milk, two cupfuls Indian meal, one and 
one-half cupfuls flour, two-thirds cupful New Orleans mo- 
lasses, one scant teaspoon soda. Mix flour, meal, and salt 
together thoroughly; then add milk, and beat till smooth. 
Dissolve soda in molasses; add to mixture; then put in but- 
tered pan; steam three hours, setting steamer over cold wa- 
ter. Put in oven fifteen minutes. 

POTATO RUSKS. 

MRS. E. S. JORDAN. 

Six good-sized potatoes cooked soft and then mashed, one- 
half cup butter and one-half cup lard mixed, one cup sugar, 
one-half cup cooled potato water, two tablespoons flour, one 
cup yeast. Mix the above; let rise, and then beat three 
eggs; put in, and work up. 

PENN RUSKS. 

MRS. A. C. AULT. 

One large potato. Make sponge same as bread in the 
evening. In the morning, add one pint of sweet milk, one 
cup white sugar, one-half cup butter, and more flour. Let 
rise again; knead out soft; let rise again; cut out; put in 
pans; let rise once more. Bake fifteen minutes. 

Best results obtained by using ''Electric Light Flour. 



5r 



BREAD. 159 

RAISED BISCUIT. 

MRS. M. A. MOORHEAD. 

One pint sweet milk, one-half cup butter, one tablespoon - 
ful sugar, one tablespoonful yeast, a little salt, whites of 
two eggs beaten stiff. Make the sponge at supper time. 
At bed time, work in flour to make a stiff dough. Put in 
warm place to rise over night. In the morning, turn it out 
on the kneading board; smooth out with the hand about one 
inch thick; cut in small cakes; let stand five minutes; put 
in oven; bake fifteen minutes. Delicious for breakfast. 

BEATEN BISCUIT. 

GAIL HAMILTON. 

One quart flour, one heaping tablespoonful lard, water to 
make stiff dough, a little salt. Beat well with rolling pin; 
work into flat biscuit; make a few holes in each with a fork. 
Bake in quick oven. 

TO MAKE RUSKS. 

MRS. G. H. WRIGHT. 

Oae quart of bread sponge, one coffee-cup white sugar, 
one teacup butter, two eggs, one pint sweet milk, a little 
salt. Beat the sugar and eggs well before adding the milk. 
Flour to knead well. 

PARKER HOUSE ROLLS. 

MRS. CHARLES MOORE. 

Rub one-half teaspoon of lard and one-half of butter into 
two quarts of sifted flour. Into a well in the center of flour, 
one pint cold boiled milk, and add one-half cup yeist or one 
cake dry yeast, dissolved in one-half cup warm water, one- 
half cup sugar, and a little salt. Set at one o'clock; make 



160 RECIPES TRIED AND TRUE. 

up at two o'clock, and put in paus at half past four for six 
o'clock tea. Keep in warm place. 

BAKING POWDER BISCUIT. 

MRS. H. T. VAN FLEET. 

To one pint of flour, add two teaspoonfuls of baking pow- 
der; sift together; add one heaping tablespoon of butter, and 
a pinch of salt. Use enough sweet milk to make a very 
soft mixture. Work the butter through the milk in the 
center of flour. Do not roll out on board, as the mixture 
is too soft, but make out by hand as you would light rolls. 
Avoid kneading. Bake in quick oven. 

DELICIOUS TEA ROLLS. 

MRS. U. F. SEFFNER. 

Two tablespoonf Ills butter, two tablespoonfuls sugar, two 
eggs. Beat the three articles all together; add a little salt, 
one cup sweet milk, two cups flour, three teaspoonfuls bak- 
ing powder. Grease a large dripping pan with butter. 
Drop a tablespoonful in each place. Bake twenty minutes. 

GOOD IMUFFINS (CHEAP AND EASY). 

MRS. E. FAIRETELD. 

One egg, one cup milk, one tablespoon sugar, one table- 
spoon butter, two teacups flour, three teaspoons baking pow- 
der, one teaspoon salt. Mix yolk of egg, butter, and sugar; 
add then the flour, baking powder, and salt, sifted together; 
then white of egg, beaten well. Bake ten minutes in quick 
oven. Much of the success in baking depends upou having 
the iron muflin ring well heated on the top of stove before 
putting the batter in them. 



BREAD. 161 

MUFFINS. 

MRS. W. C. BUTCHER. 

Three eggs beaten separately, one-half cup of sugar, two- 
thirds cup of butter, one pint of sweet milk, two heaping 
teaspoons of baking powder; add flour to make it as thick, as 
cake batter. 



n 



MUFFIN OR SHORTCAKE DOUGH. 

MRS. DR. McMURRAY. 

Two pints of flour, three tablespoons of sugar, one table- 
spoon of melted butter, one egg, one pint of sweet milk, 
three teaspoons of baking powder. Bake in a quick oven 
in muffin rings, or drop the dough from the end of your 
spoon as you do for drop cake. To be eaten hot. Try with 
a broom splint, as cake. Enough for four or five large 
persons. 

QUICK MUFFINS. 

MRS. S. E. BARLOW. 

One cup flour, one heaping teaspoon baking powder, one 
^gg, two tablespoons melted butter, a little salt; mix all to- 
gether; before stirring them, add sufficient water to make a 
stiff batter. Bake in hot oven about fifteen minutes. 

MUFFINS. 

MRS. A. C. AULT. 

One cup sweet milk, one-half cup butter, one egg, one 
tablespoonful sugar, two teaspoonfuls baking powder, two 
and one-half cups flour, a pinch salt. 

" Ei^ECTRic Light Flour"' is guaranteed pure winter 

wheat flour. 

22 



162 RECIPES TRIED AND TRUE. 

MUFFINS. 

RrRS. T. H. LINSLEY. 

To each cup of flour, add two teaspoons of baking pow- 
der, large pinch of salt; moisten with sweet milk to the con- 
sistency of drop dough. Have muflin pans hot, with a tea- 
spoonful of butter in each. Bake ten minutes in hot oven. 

CORN MUFFINS. 

E. S. 

Make just as you do wheat muffins, using one-half wheat 
flour, and one-half corn meal. 

Graham muflins are made in the same manner, using 
equal parts wheat and graham flour. 

FRENCH BREAD GRIDDLE CAKES. 

MRS. R. H. JOHNSON. 

One pint bread crumbs. One pint milk; scald, and pour 
over bread crumbs at night to make a'batter. Four eggs, 
two cups or less flour, one-half cup or less butter. Bake 
like buckwheats. 

VERY NICE CORN MEAL GRIDDLE CAKES. 

MRS. T. H. LINSLEY. 

One pint rich sour milk, one well beaten egg, one large 
tablespoon flour, teaspoon soda, meal enough to make the 
mixture not quite as thick as for flour cakes. 

CORN MEAL GRIDDLE CAKES. 

MRS. F. E. H. SELLERS. 

One and one-half pints sour milk, one good teaspoonful 
soda, one teaspoonful salt, one pint corn meal, one-half pint 
flour, one egg. 



BREAD. 163 

ANNIE'S CORN CAKES. 

Oue egg, one pint of sour milk, one-half teaspoonful soda, 
pinch salt, one-half cup flour, corn meal to make not too 
stiff a batter. 

MUSH. 

W. R. C. 

To three quarts of boiling water, add salt to taste; stir in 
gradually sufficient corn meal to make it quite thick. Boil 
slowly one hour. Stir often, and beat well; that will make 
it light and smooth. Eat with cream, milk, and butter, or 
syrup. To fry when cold, cut in thin slices, and fry in lard 
and butter, mixed. 

TO FRY HOT MUSH. 

MRS. T. H. LINSLEY. 

Fry slices of bacon; remove the meat; drop in the mush 
by spoonfuls, and fry delicate brown. 

GERMICELLI. 

MRS. W. H. ECKHART. 

Stir germicelli into two quarts of boiling water until as 
thick as mush; add salt. Boil five or ten minutes, stirring 
constantly. Just before serving, you can stir in a cup of 
sweet milk, if you wish. When cold, slice, and fry same 
as corn mush. ' 

OAT MEAL CRACKERS. 

JENNIE L. HARRINGTON. 

Two cups oat meal (rolled oats is best), three cups flour, 
one cup shortening, one cup sugar, one cup water, one tea> 
spoonful salt, three teaspoonfuls baking powder; roll very 
thin. 



164 RECIPES TRIED AND TRUE. 

LEMON CRACKERS. 

MRS. E. S. JORDAN. 

Two' and three-fourths cups of granulated sugar, one cup 
of butter, one pint of sweet milk, one cup of lard, three 
eggs, five cents' worth of lemon oil, five cents' worth car- 
bonate of ammonia, a pinch of salt. Mix stiff, and roll 
thin; stick with a fork, and bake in a quick oven. 

MILK TOAST. 

MISS H. W. 

Boil one quart of milk; stir into it two tablespoonfuls but- 
ter, mixed with one tablespoonful flour, and a saltspoonful 
salt. Let the whole boil five minutes. Have ready a dish 
of toasted bread; pour the milk over it, and serve hot. Nice 
for breakfast. 



FRITTERS. 

Separate four eggs; beat the yolks until light; add to 
them one quart of sweet milk, a little salt. Beat the whites 
very stiff; stir in one quart of flour, and the whites, half and 
half, with one teaspoonful of baking powder. In a table- 
spoonful of batter, place a slice of nice sour apple; drop 
into hot lard, and fry nice brown on both sides. Serve hot, 
with butter and syrup. 

Make oyster fritters the same way, using fine large oys- 
ters in place of apples. 

Orange FRiTTERS.-^Made in same way, using slices of 
orange instead of apple. 

Pineapple Fritters. — Made in same manner, only stir 
into the batter a pineapple, grated or chopped fine. 



BREAD. 165 

SPANISH FRITTERS. 

MRS. E. S. 

Cut the soft of bread into pieces two or three inches long 
and one inch thick. Take one pint and a half of sweet 
milk; sweeten to taste; add six well beaten eggs, a little salt; 
dip the pieces of bread in the mixture; let them become well 
saturated. Fry in hot lard until a delicate brown. 



FOR CANNING CORN. 

MRS> MARTHA WRIGHT. 

To five pints green corn, add three pints water; cook five 
minutes; then dissolve three level teaspoons tartaric acid, 
and add to corn; cook a few minutes longer; then it is ready 
to can in new or nearly new tin cans. 

When preparing for table, drain off liquid; add a very 
little water; season and sweeten to taste. When boiling, 
add one level teaspoon soda dissolved in hot water. 



SCHMIER KASE, 

OLIVE BARKS. 



One gallon of sour milk; scald until crumbly; let drip 
until whey is separated from curd; mash fine; salt to suit 
the taste; add one pint of rich sour cream; stirtillall is 
thoroughly mixed together. 

The old reliable milliner— Jennie Thomas, 121 S. Main, 



166 RECIPES TRIED AND TRUE. 



MEDICAL LORE AND 
INVALIDS' FOOD. 



" Simple diet is best, for many dishes bring many diseases." — Pliny. 



COUGH SYRUP. 

MARY FELTY. 

One quart of water, one handful of hops; boil these to- 
gether, and strain; put in this fluid a cup of sugar, and boil 
to a syrup; cut a lemon into it, and bottle for use. 

WHOOPING COUGH SYRUP. 

MRS. SARAK SAITER. 

One ounce flax seed, one ounce slippery elm, one ounce 
boueset, one ounce stick liquorice, one and one-half pounds 
loaf sugar, one pint Orleans molasses. Put first three in- 
gredients in thin muslin bag, and boil one hour in suflicient 
water to cover well. Dissolve the liquorice in one pint of 
water; then boil all together a few moments. 

Dose. — One teaspoonful every hour or two, as the case 
may require. 



MEDICAL LORE AND INVALIDS' FOOD. 167 

WHOOPING COUGH SYRUP. 

MRS. K. E. H. SELLERS. 

One- half pint flax seed, two ounces lemon or one large 
lemon, two ounces honey; put all in the quart of water, and 
simmer half a day. When finished, there must be one 
quart of it. 

Dose. — One tablespoonful after each paroxysm of cough- 
ing, or six tablespoons a day. Keep in a cool place. 

COUGH SYRUP. 

MRS. ISABELLA CLARK. 

Worth Its WeicxHt in Gold.— One ounce each of com- 
frey of elecampane, liquorice, squills, dandelion, spikenard, 
sourdock, burdock, sarsaparilla, sweet anise seed; put these 
in vessel, and cover with water; boil until strength is out; 
strain, and add one cup of loaf sugar, and one quart of Or- 
leans molasses. Boil all together until thick as syrup. 

CHOLERA CURE. 

from an eminent doctor. 
One-half teaspoonful of chloroform in eight times as 
much water. This is one dose. Repeat as often as neces- 
sary. 

COUGH SYRUP. 

M. E. WRIGHT. 

One-half pint pure pine tar; two pounds loaf sugar, one 
pint pure cider vinegar. First make a syrup of sugar and 
vinegar; then add tar, and steep for one hour. 

FOR COUGH. 

M. E. WRIGHT. 

Take the buds of shell bark hickory, and make a tea, and 
drink. 



168 RECIPES TRIED AND TRUE. 

CROUP REMEDY. 

MRS. G. H. WRIGHT. 

Take equal parts of sage and privet; steep well in water; 
add burnt alum size of a hickory nut; sweeten well with 
honey or loaf sugar. 

Dose. — Teaspoonful often as needed. 

TO OBTAIN THE JUICE OF AN ONION. 

Grate the onion on a coarse grater, and squeeze through 
a coarse cloth. 

FOR INFLAMMATORY RHEUMATISM. 

Take a pail of sweet oil; dissolve in it an ounce of saltpe- 
tre. Bathe the afflicted parts. 

GRANDMA'S LINIMENT. 

MRS. SAMUEL SATTER, 

One egg, beaten very light; then add one small pint of 
turpentine, and let stand over night. In the morning, add 
a small pint of vinegar, and shake well. Improves with 
age. Excellent for quakes and stitches. 

MRS. BASSETT'S LINIMENT, 

MRS. J. J. SLOAN. 

One-half gallon alcohol, one ounce oil of turpentine, one 
ounce oil of cedar, two ounces oil of sassafras, one ounce 
tincture of gueac, two ounces tincture of capsicum, one 
ounce gum of camphor, two ounces sulphuric ether, two 
ounces chloroform, three ounces aqua ammonia. 

LINIMENT. 

MRS. J. J. SLOAN. 

One twenty-five cent bottle of Mustang liniment, one 



MEDICAL LORE AN*D INVALIDS' FOOD. 169 

ounce oil of cloves, cue ouuce oil of tansy, one ounce harts- 
horn, one ounce turpentine, one ounce alcohol; mix well, 
and cork tightly. . 

FOR RliEUMATISM. 

To one pint of gin, add one-half ounce of saltpetre. 
Dose. — One tablespoonful three times a day. 

CURE FOR STY. 

MRS. C. C. STOLTZ. 

Put a teaspoonful of soda in a small bag; wet in hot wa- 
ter, and lay on the eye at night. 

CURE FOR EARACHE. 

MRS. C. C. STOLTZ. 

Drop two or three drops of heated sweet oil in the ear. 
Take flannel cloth, and wet in hot water; lay it on the ear, 
with a dry one over it. Change the cloth when cold. AVill 
relieve instantly. 

TO REMOVE PIMPLES. 

MRS. ALICE KRANER. 

Take a small quantity of epsom salts; dilute with rain- 
water. Wash the face, and rub with the hands till dry. 
This will remove "black heads," also. 

REMEDY FOR CORNS. 

MRS. U. F. SEFFNER. 

A paragraph is going the rounds to the effect that linseed 

oil is a sure remedy for both hard and soft corns. If they are 

indurated and very painful, the relief it gives in a short time 

is most grateful. Bind on a piece of soft rag saturated with 

linseed oil, and continue to dampen it with the oil every 

night and morning until the corn can be removed easily 

and without pain. 

23 



170 RECIPES TRIEl^ AND TRUE. 



MISCELLANEOUS. 



HARD SOAP. 

MRS. DR. HAMILTON. 

Nine gallons rainwater, three boxes potash, fifteen pounds 
grease, one pound salsoda. Let water come to boil; put in 
the potash, and let dissolve; then put in the salsoda and 
grease. This is nice for scrubbing. 

FURNITURE POLISH, 

MRS. J. J. SLOAN. 

Equal parts of raw linseed oil and alcohol; color about a 
ruby color with a solution of red anoline; apply with a can- 
ton flannel cloth. To touch up the scratched or white 
places, let it stand and settle, using the red with c^rk. 

SILVER POLISH. 

MRS. E. 

Take five cents* worth of prepared chalk; mash, and mix 
with alcohol enough to soften, and roll into balls; place on 
dish to dry. This will make enough polish to last an ordi- 



MISCELLANEOUS. 



171 



nary family six months. Apply with dampened cloth; wash, 
and dry. 

TO CLEAN SILVER. 

MRS JOHN LANDON. 

Take a quart of water; add four tablespoonfuls of am- 
monia, and six tablespoonfuls of powdered chalk. Shake 
well before using. 

CLEANSING CREAM TO CLEAN CLOTHING. 

MRS. J. H. REED. 

Can be used on any material without changing color. 
One-fourth pound white castile soap, one-fourth pound am- 
monia, one ounce spirits of wine, one ounce ether. Cut the 
soap fine, and dissolve it over the fire in one quart of rain- 
water; remove from the stove; add the other ingredients, 
and four quarts of warm rainwater. Bottle, and cork 
tightly. This will make five quarts. Apply with soft cloth. 

TO COLOR BLACK. 

M. E. WRIGHT. 

For each pound of cloth, take an ounce of blue vitriol, one 
ounce of copperas dissolved in sufficient water. Boil your 
clothes half an hour; take out, and add one-half ounce of 
extract logwood, and boil one hour or more, with frequent 
airing. Put in sweet milk to set the color; let it remain 
several hours, and rinse well in clear water. 

TO KEEP MILK AND CREAM SWEET IN HOT 

WEATHER. 

MRS. T. H. LINSLEY. 

Scald the new milk gently, without boiling. I have kept 
cream sweet two days by making it pretty sweet, and scald- 
ing it. Keep in a cool place. 



172 RECIPES TRIED AND TRUE. 

FOR CLEANING CARPET. 

MRS. NED THATCHER. 

One cake ivory soap, eight ounces salsoda, four ounces 
borax, one-half pint alcohol. Shave the soap, and dissolve 
in one gallon rainwater. When it comes to a boil, add the 
soda and borax. Boil fifteen minutes; pour out into a ves- 
sel, and add three and one-half gallons of warm soft water. 
When cold, add the alcohol. Ready for use in twelve hours. 

BORAX IN WASHING. 

LONDON FIELD. 

The washerwomen of Holland and Belgium, so proverb- 
ially clean, aud who get up their linen so beautifully white, 
use refined borax as a wjishing powder instead of soda, in 
the proportion of a large handful of borax powder to about 
ten gallons of boiling water; they save in soap nearly half. 
All the washing establishments adopt the same mode. For 
laces, cambrics, etc., an extra quantity of the powder is 
used, and for crinolines, (requiring to be made very stiff), 
a strong solution is necessary. Borax being a neutral salt, 
does not, in the slightest degree, injure the texture of the 
linen. Its effect is to soften the hardest water, and there- 
fore it should be kept on every toilet table. To the taste, 
it is rather sweet, is used for cleansing the hair, is an excel- 
lent deutrifice, and in hot countries is used in combination 
with tartaric acid and bi-carbonate of soda as a cooling bev- 
erage. Good tea cannot be made with hard water; all wa- 
ter may be made soft by a teaspoonful of borax powder to 
an ordinary kettle of water, in which it should boil. The 
saving in the quantity of tea used will be at least one-fifth. 

TO PREVENT GLASS BREAKING. 

SELECTED. 

Place lamp chimneys, tumblers and such articles in a pot 



MISCELLANEOUS, 173 

filled with cold water, to which some cominon table salt has 
been added. Boil the water well, and allow it to cool 
slowly. When the articles are taken out and washed, they 
will resist any sudden change of temperature. 

FACTS FOR HOUSEKEEPERS. 

COPIED. 

1. Charcoal is recommended as an absorber of gases in 
the milk room where foul gases are present. It .should be 
freshly powdered, and ke})t there continually. 

2. A teaspoonful of borax put in the last water in which 
clothes are rinsed, will whiten them surprisingly. Pound 
the borax so it will dissolve easily. 

3. One teaspoonful of ammonia to a teacup of water ap- 
plied with a rag, will clean silver or gold jewelry. 

4. Clear boiling water will remove tea stains. Pour the 
water through the stain, and thus prevent its spreading. 

5. Salt will curdle new milk. In preparing porridge, 
gravies, etc., salt should not be added until dish is prepared. 

6. Paint stains that are dry and old may be removed 
from cotton or woolen goods with chloroform. First cover 
the spot with olive oil or butter. 

7. Rainwater and soap will remove machine grease from 
washable fabrics. 

8. Fresh meat beginning to sour will svreeten if placed 
out of doors over night. 

9. Boiling starch is much improved by the addition of 
sperm or salt, or both, or a little gum arable dissolved. 

10. Milk which has changed may be rendered fit for use 
again by stirring in a little soda. 

11. Fish may be scaled easier by first dipping them into 
boiling water for a minute, 

12. Kerosine will soften boots and shoes that have been 
hardened by water, and render them pliable as new. 



174 RECIPES TRIED AND TRUE, 



STATISTICS FOR THE 

COOK. 



HOW LONG THINGS SHOULD BE 
BAKED, BOILED AND FRIED. 



BAKING. 

NEW YORK TIMES. 

Beans, eight to ten hours. 

Beef, sirloin, rare, eight to ten minutes per pound. 

Beef, sirloin, well done, twelve to fifteen minutes per 
pound . 

Beef, long or short fillet, twenty to thirty minutes. 

Beef, rolled rib or rump, twelve to fifteen minutes per 
pound. 

Biscuit, ten to twenty minutes. 

Bread, briek loaf, forty to sixty minutes. 

C?.ke, plain, twenty to forty minutes. 

Cake, sponge, forty-five to sixty minutes. 

Chickens, three to four pounds, one to one and one-half 
hours. 



STATISTICS FOR THE COOK. 175 

Cookies, ten to fifteen iniuutes. 
Custards, fifteen to twenty minutes. 
Duck, tame, forty to sixty minutes. 
Fish, six to eight pounds, one hour. 
Gingerbread, twenty to thirty minutes, 
Graham gems, thirty minutes. 
Lamb, well done, fifteen minutes per pound. 
Mutton, rare, ten minutes per pound; well done, fifteen 
minutes per pound. 

Pie crust, thirty to forty minutes. 

Pork, well done, thirty minutes per pound. 

Potatoes, thirty to forty-five minutes. 

Pudding, bread, rice and tapioca, one hour. 

Pudding, plum, two to three hours. 

Rolls, ten to fifteen minutes. 

Turkey, ten pounds, three hours. 

Veal, well done, twenty minutes per pound. 

BOILING. 

Asparagus, fifteen to twenty minutes. 

Bass, ten minutes. 

Beans, shell, one to two hours. 

Beans, string, two hours. 

Beef, a la mode, three to four hours. 

Beets, young, forty-five to sixty minutes. 

Blue fish, ten minutes per pound. 

Brown bread, three hours. 

Cabbage, young, thirty to forty-five minutes. 

Carrots, forty-five to sixty minutes. 

Cauliflower, thirty to forty-five minutes. 

Celery, thirty to forty-five minutes. 

Chickens, forty-five to sixty minutes. 

Clams, three to five minutes. 

Codfish, six minutes per pound. 



17() RECIPES TRIED AND TRUE. , 

i 

Coffee, three to five minutes. ! 

Corn, green, five to eight minutes. * I 

Corned beef, four to five hours. / j 

Eggs, three to five minutes. \ 

Eggs, hard boiled, fifteen to twenty minutes. j 
Fowls, two to three hours. 
Haddock, six minutes per pound. 

Halibut, cubical, fifteen minutes per pound. i 

Ham, five hours. j 

Hominy, one to two hours. ; 

Lamb, one hour. i 

Macaroni, twenty to thirty minutes. \ 

Oatmeal, one to two hours. J 

Onions, thirty to forty-five minutes. - 

Oysters, three minutes, ' 

Oyster plant, thirty to sixty minutes. ' 

Parsnips, thirty to forty -five minutes. \ 

Peas, fifteen to twenty minutes. j 

Potatoes, twenty to thirty minutes. I 

Rice, fifteen to twenty minutes. j 

Salmon, cubical, fifteen minutes per pound. \ 
Small fish, six minutes per pound. 
Smoked tongue, three to four hours. 

Spinach, twenty to thirty minutes. j 

Squash, twenty to thirty minutes. ; 

Sweetbreads, twenty to thirty minutes. I 
Tomatoes, fifteen to twenty minutes. 

Turkey, two to three hours. i 

Turnips, thirty to forty-five minutes. j 

Veal, two to three hours. ' 
Wheat, one to three hours. 

BROILING. \ 

Chickens, twenty minutes. ' 



STATISTICS FOR THE COOK. 177 

Chops, eight minutes. 
Steak, four to eight minutes. 
Fish, five to fifteen minutes. 

FRYIJNG. 

Bacon, three to five minutes. 
Breaded chops, four to six minutes. 
Croquettes, one minute. 
Doughnuts, three to five minutes. 
Fish balls, one minute. 
Fritters, three to five minutes. 
Muffins, three to five minutes. 
Small fish, one to three minutes. 
Smelts, one minute. 

WEIGHTS AND MEASURES. 

Four teaspoonfuls of liquid equal to one tablespoouful. 
One pint of liquid equals one pound. 
Two gills of liquid equal one cup, or one- half pint. 
Two round tablespoonfuls of flour equal one ounce. 
Four cups of bread flour equal one quart, or one pound. 
One cup of butter equals one-half pound. 
One pint of butter equals one pound. 
One tablespoouful of butter equals one ounce. 
Butter size of an egg equals two ounces. 
Ten eggs equal one pound. 

Two cups of granulated sugar equal one pound. 
Two and one-half cups of powdered sugar equal one 
pound. 



24 



178 



RECIPES TRIED AND TRUE. 



INDEX. 



I'AGE ] 

Menus 8 \ 

Sunday Breakfast 8 | 

Plain Dinufi 9 ! 

Old-Fashioiifd Thanksgiving I 

Dinner 9 

Family Dinners tor a Week .. . 9-10 1 

Breakfasts n j 

A Few plain Dinners 12 



Soup 23 

Preface 13 

Fine 14 

Roast Beef 14 

Be in 15 

Bouillon 15 

I.emon Bniiillon 15 

Corn 16 

Noodle 16 

Oyster Stew 16 

Potato 16 

'Jom ito 17 

Vegetable i8 

Veal 18 



Fish and Oysters. 



.. 20 

Accomp intments of Fish 20 

Kule for Selecting Fish 20 

Baked F'ish 20 

Codfish with Egg 21 

Codrlsh witii Cream 21 

Slivered i.'cdfish... 21 

Codfish Balls 21 

Fried Fish 22 

Oysters on To.ist 22 

Escaloped Oysters 22 

Steame ; < iysters 23 

Oyster Gumbo 23 

< )yster Pie 23-24 

Fried Oysters 24 

P.gs in Blanket 24 

Sour Fish 25 

Salt Herring 25 

•saliTion T.oaf 25 

Savice for F'ish 26 

Sour Sauce for Fish 26 

Brodefl Oysters 26 

Oxen Fried Fish 26 

Escaloped Salmon 26 



PAGE 

Fowl and Game 27 

Accompaniments 27 

To Cook Chicken 27 

Drop Dumplings for Veal or 

Chicken 28 

Jellied Chicken 28 

Fried Chicken 28 

Chicken Pie 28-29 

Drop Dumplings for Chicken. 29 

Chicken on Biscuit 30 

Roast Turkey 30 

Turkey and Dressing 31 

Boned Turkey 31 

Roast Ducks and Geese 32 

Apple Stuffing 32 

Chestnut Dressing 32 

Plain Stuffing 32 

Oyster Dressing 32 

Sauce for Birds or Venison... 33 

Potted Pigeons or Birds 33 

Pigeons and Partridges 33 

Rabbits 33 

Meats 34 

Accompaniments 34 

To Boil 34 

To Broil 35 

Beefsteak 35 

Stuffed Beefsteak 35 

To Fry Steak 36 

Beefsteak and Onions 36 

Beefsteak and Mushrooms. .. . 36 

Beef Loaf 37 

Beef a la mode .... 37 

Fried Liver 37 

Potato and Meat Pie 38 

Cold M eat Turnovers 38 

Veal Cutlets 38 

Veal Loaf 38 

Veal Stew 39 

Dressing for roast of Veal 39 

Veal and Ham Sandwich 39 

Pot Roast 40 

To Roast Pork 40 

Scrapple 40 

Spiced Meat 40 

Batter Pudding with Beef R'st 41 

Boned Shoulder of Mutton 41 

To Fry Ham 42 

Ham Toast 42 



tNDEX 



179 



Boiled Ham 42 

Tongue 43 

Forcemeat Balls 43 

Veal Loaf 43 

Sweet Breads 44 

Sweet Breads with Peas 44 

Pickle for Beef, etc >. 44 

To Cure Beef. 44 



EGETABLES 

Beets 

String Beans, Acid Dresring 

Baked Beans 

Cold Slaw with Onion 

Cabbage 

Green Corn Patties 

Corn Oysters 

Potatoes "Au Gratin" . . . . 

Potato Croquettes 

Whipped Potatoes 

Lyonnaise Potatoes. 

Escalloped Potatoes 

Mashed Sweet Potatoes 

Browned Sweet Potatoes 

Sweet Potatoes, S'th'rn Fash'n 

Dried Pumpkin 

Stewed Rice 

New England Succotash 

Turnips 

To Stew Turnips 

Tomato Macaroni 

For Canning Corn 



45 

45 

45 

46 

46 

46-47 

47 
47 
47 
48 
48 
48 
49 
49 
49 
50 
50 
50 
50 
51 
51 
51 
165 



Eggs 52 

How to Preserve 52 

Soft Boiled 53 

French Omelettes 53 

Omelette 53 

Plain Omelette 53 

For an Invalid 54 

Sardelled 54 

Stuffed 54 

Salads , and Salad 

Dressing 55 

Lettuce 56 

Lobster 56 

Sandwich Filling 56 

Chicken 56-57-58 

Bean, 59 

Tomato 5y 

Cucumber 59 

Potato 59-60 

Cabbage. 6p 

Potato Salad Dressing 60 

Salad Dressing 61 

Weymouth Salad Dressing. ... 61 

Mayonnaise 61 



Puddings 



62 



Apple 62 

Apple Batter 62 

Apple Roll 63 

Bird's Nest 63 

Chocolate ^3 

Cottage 64 



Cup 64 

Corn Starch 64 

Golden , .. 65 

Steamed Indian 65 

Baked Indian 65 

Fruit 66 

Fig 66 

English PUim 67 

Orange 6j 



Oceanica 

Pudding 

Peach . . . 

Cold Custard> with Renuet.. .. 

Potato 

Queen 

Rice . . 

Presbyterian 

Peach Tapioca 

Topioca Cream... 

Tapioca Pudding, with Apples 

Suet ., 

Troy . , 



67 
68 
68 
6d 
69 

69 
69 
69 
70 
70 
60 
7T-72 

72 



Pies 



73 



74 
74 
74 
74 



Crust 

Custard , 

Orange Cream 

Chess , 

Cream ... 75 

Corn Starch 75 

Chocolate 76 

Lemon . 76-77-78-80-81 

Mince Meat 78-79 

Pumpkin 79-80-81 

Blue Stocking Pumpkin .. 80 

Fig Tarts 8t 

Plum 81 

M olasses 82 

Raisin 82 



Cheese 



83 



Welsh Rare-Bit 83 

Cheese Fonda 83 

Cheese Sandwich 84 

Cheese Sticks 84 

Cheese Straws 84 

Cheese Wafers 84 

Schmier Kase 16- 

Cakes 85 

Delicate 86 

White 86-87 

Snow 87 

Loaf 87-92 

Silver 87 

Gold 88 

Angel's Food 80-89 

Angel 88 

Sunshine 89 

Cold Water 89 

Bride's 90 

Sponge 90-91 

Lemon 91 

M arble 91 

Pound 91 

Hickory Nut 92-95 

Mother's Old-Fashioned 92 



180 



RECIPES TBIED AND TRUE 



Raisin 93 

Dried Apple Fruit Q3 

Ajtijie Fruit 94 

("offee 94-95 

Raised 95 

Fruit 95-96-97 

Black Wedding 97 

White P>uit .... 97 

Layer Cakes. . 98 

White 98 

Yellow 98 

Blackberry Jam . . 98-99 

Grape ....... 99 

Chocolate 09-100-101 

Cream 101-102 

Custard 102 

Lemon Cream 103 

Ice-Cream 103 

Jelly. 103-108-109 

Fig 104 

Neapolitan 104 

Maple 104 

Vanity 105 

Devils' Food 105 

Delmonico's 106 

English Walnut 106 

Columbia ic6 

Favorite Snow 107 

Orange 107 

Tea 107 

Ribbon 107 

White 108 

Icing 109 

Frosting without Eggs 109 

Fig Filling for 109 



GlNGERBREA]> AND 

Small Cakes.. 



110 



Gingerbread 110-111-112 

Fried Cakes it2 

Doughnuts II 2-1 13-114 

Crullers 114 

Ginger Cakes 114 

Cookies 115-116-117-118-119-120-121 

Ginger Nuts... 118 

Ginger Snaps 118 

Sugar Snaps 119 

Sand Cakes 119 

Lemon Crackers 120 

Macaroons 120-121 

Cream Puffs 122 

Kisses 122 

Delicacies 123 

Flf)at 123 

Charlotte Russe 124 

LemonSponge orSnowPudding 124 

Lemon Jelly 125 

f Jrange Souffle 126 

Cream 126 

Ambrosia for One 126 

Fruit 127-128 

KentucKy Pudding 128 

Peach Ice-Cream 129 

Frozen Oranges 129 

A Dainty Dessert 129 

Frozen Cherries 129 

Frozen Amljrosia 129 



Frozen Peaches and Plums. . . . 130 

Pineapple Souffle 130 

Biscjue Ice-Cream 130 

Lemon Sherbert 131 

Lemon Ice 131 

Apricot Ice 131 

Orange Sherbert 131 

Confections 132 

To Blanch Almonds 132 

Chocolate Creams 133 

Taffy 133 

Chocolate Caramels 133 

Molasses Candy 134 

Cocoanut Drops 134 

Butter Scotch 134 

Pickles 135 

For Six Hundred 135 

Cucumber i35-'39 

Chow-Chow i36-«37 

Pickled Onions 136 

Pickled Peaches 137 

Mango 137 

Mixed 137 

Spanish 138 

Celery, or French 138 

Green Tomato . 139 

Chopped 140 

Flint 140 

Catsup 140-141-142 

Spiced Grapes 142-143 

Pickled Pears 142 

Rosa's Sweet 142 

Spiced Gooseberries 143 

Chili Sauce 143 

Canned Fruit and 
Jellies 144 

In General 144 

Raspberry J am 144 

To Preserve Peaches 145 

To Preserve Quinces 145 

Tomato Butter 145 

Marmalade 145-147-148 

Jelly 146-147 

Pineapple Jam 146 

Straw berries 148-149 

Raspberries 148 

Chopped (Quinces 149 

Canned Pineapple 149 

Beverages 150 

For Invalids 150 

Raspberry Vinegar 150 

Chocolate 150 

Coffee 151 

Invalid Coffee 151 

Bread 152 

Yeast 152-153 

Bread ' 53-154-155-156 

Coffee Cake 154 

Corn Bread 156-157-158 

Rusks 158-1 1;9 

Biscuit 159-160 



INDEX . 



181 



Rolls 159-160 

Muffins 160-161-162 

Annie's Corn Cakes 163 

M ush 163 

Germicelli 163 

Milk Toast 164 

Fri tiers 164-165 

Medical Lore and In- 
valids' Food 166 

Cough Syrup 166-167 

Whooping Cough Syrup 166-167 

Cholera Cure 167 

For Cough 167 

Croup Remedy 168 

To Obtain Juice of an Onion.. 168 
For Inflamatory Rheumatism 168-169 

Liniment 168 

Cure for Sty 169 



Cure for Earache i6g 

To Remove Pimples 169 

Remedy for Corns 169 

Miscellaneous 170 

Hard Soap 170 

Polish 170 

To Clean Silver 171 

Cleansing Cream 171 

To Color Black 171 

To Keep Milk and Cream 

Sweet 171 

For Cleaning Carpet 172 

Borax in Washing 172 

To Prevent Glass Breaking. . . 172 

Facts for Housekeepers 173 

Statistics 174-177 



W. H. ECKHABT_ 

^^^_The Peoi^e's Clothier, 

Campbell Block, Corner Main and Center ^ts. 
WE'RE ALWAYS RlGhT IN PRICES AND STYLES 

D. R. CRISSINGER ^- ^- QUIGLEY. 

CRISSINGER 6- QUI6L.EY, 
Attorneys ar\di Counselors at La.Tsr, 

Office Northwest Corner Public Square, over Eckhart's, 

caivif>be:i.l block, - marion, ohio. 



C. NEGLEY. 



Re-opened September 4th, 1893. 



R. VAN HORN. 



THE i<t:ei'^j^ K:EI^I^ ecotjse, 

C. NEGLEY & CO., Proprietors, MARION, OHIO. 

Re-fitted Nicely. Heated by Steam. First-Class Sample Rooms. 

Office on Ground Floor, North Main Street. 



T. H. LINSLEY. 



LINSLEY & LAWKENCE, 



M. LAWRENCE. 



Dealers in Lumber and Coal, 

Also. Complete line of Sash, Doors. Blinds. A\ould- 
ings. Lath and Shingles. Come and see us. 

HENRY STRELITZ. MITCHELL STRELITZ. 

J, STRELITZ'S SONS. 

Uzvr^est Dep^rtrp^ot of Cl?iir»ren's 
Wcz^r io the City. 

113 AND 115 NORTh A\A1N STREET. 



JEFF. OSBORNE, 

T^ezits Ziocl Vesict2iblC5» 

And Oysters and Fish in season. Highest Price paid for F..t Ci'ttle. 

COR. MAIN ANP R. R. STS., - - MARION, OHIO. 

The City Steam Laundry, 

NO. 245 NORTH ZnAlN STREET. 



-PROPRIETORS OF- 



The Livery, Feed and Sale Stable^ 

Established 1870. Main St., Noitli of Coart House. 



M. E. A\ElLEY,'iSrTCHEN. 

Confectionery and Ice-Creara Parlors. 

Manufacturer of Cigars, 205 E, Cente-^ St. 



DARMODY & McCLURE, 



-PROPRIETORS- 



ElBctric Light Flour Mills. 

. Manufacturers of the Justly Popular brand of 

.^^ "ELECTRIC LIGHT FLOUR!'' ^^ 

And the following Specialties: Gcrniicelli. Prem- 
ium Corn AVeal, Granulated Aeal, Cracked Corn, 
Craham Tlour. and ev^erything else usually 
found in a riRST-CLASS AMlling Plant. 

A 





ISO, Dii?ers and Miippers oi an kiikis o 




aiiu 



OrriCE AND /niLLS 

Corner Oal^ and Railroad Streets. 

viii 





DEALER IN 



StoVes, Ranges, Maijtels, 



UR^^TES A^D TILE. 



AGENT FOR 



Econoi^ny Fuiri^aces. 



PROPRIETOR OF 



MARli ROOFING 




-#Slate and Metal Roofing by Roofers.^- 



[. F. McNeal. 



L. B. xMcNeal. 



A. F. McNeal. 



J. F. McNEAL & SONS, 
Attorneys and Counselors at Latv, 



iiyM West Center Street 



MARION, OHIO. 



Commercial Collectior\s a Sx^ecialty. 

Reliable Correspondents in all the States and Canada. 

Reference — The Farmers' & Mechanics' Bank Co. 




k 




Dealers in Confectioiieries, 

^ ' J Fruits, Cigars and Tobacco. 

115 VV. Center St.. - ynARlON. OHIO. 

yinthony's Steam Lauiidry, ^^^^ffHto'^^^ ^'''^'' 

BEST IN THE STATE! 

If you want Good Work on Short Notice, Try Us. Lace Clrtains a Specialty. 

Telephone 87. d. C. ANTHONY. Prop'r. 

ix 



