fl> 
o 



C*R4 





BANCROFT 
LIBRARY 

o 

THE LIBRARY 

OF 

THE UNIVERSITY 
OF CALIFORNIA 












RIVERSIDE 



* RECIPES 




"I^HVMV 








E<?lpE$. + * 



^=qA COLLECTION OFF=- 

C HOICK TKSTKO RKCIJPKS 



EDITKD BY 

* * THE WQMAN'S GfellbD * * 

OF TRINITY CHURCH. 



L R 



RENO, NEVADA, 1894. 



"S <=> 2 2 



m/f 



HE design in preparing the following recipes for publication, 
has not been to trespass on ground already well covered by 
comprehensive manuals.of cookery, but to offer a collection 
of choice, tested recipes in use by experienced housekeepers. We 
feel confident that a careful trial of these recipes will prove their 
great value to every lady desirous of becoming a good cook, or of 
varying methods already in use. We thank the many kind 
friends who have aided our enterprise, and trust that this little 
book will meet with their approval, and please the public in 
general. 



RIVERSIDE RECIPES. 



SOUP. 



SOUP STOCK. Put soup meat or bone on in cold water, al-, 
lowing about 2 quarts to 3 pounds of meat. Drop in an 
onion, a piece of celery and tomato to season, and salt when par- 
tially cooked. Boil long and slowly, and when done take out the 
meat and strain; allow the liquor to stand over night. In the 
morning remove all the grease from the top, when it will be ready 
for use. A variety of simple soups can be made by the addition 
of rice, macaroni (broken up), chopped vegetables, meat or marrow 
balls as desired, allowing sufficient time to cook in the stock; be- 
fore serving, pepper and salt to taste. Mrs. Henry Rives. 

MILK TOMATO SOUP. Cook a pint of peeled or i can of 
tomatoes until soft, then rub through a strainer and return to the 
fire. Season with salt and pepper and add a little butter. Heat a 
quart of milk and, just before it comes to a boil, put in soda about 
the size of a bean, then add the tomatoes and serve hot. Mrs. R. 
W. Parry. 

SALMON BISQUE. One can salmon, i pint milk, i quart boil- 
ing water; salt and pepper to taste. Pick the salmon to pieces, re- 
moving all bits of bone and skin; put over the fire in the boiling 
water and let it simmer half an hour; add the boiling milk, i table- 
spoon flour rubbed with i tablespoon butter; season, stir till smooth 
and serve. C. T, H. 

GREEN PEA SOUP. Allow a pint of shelled peas to a quart 
of water and cook till soft; skim out and rub through a colander, 
and stir into the water in which they were cooked ; boil Y<z hour 



6 

longer and season with salt and pepper. For 3 quarts of soup 
make a thickening of 2 tablespoons butter mixed with ^ cup rice 
flour or 2 tablespoons common flour; stir well from the bottom and 
remove as soon as cooked through. This soup should be of the 
consistency of good thick cream. Mrs. H. J. Thyes. 

BISQUE OF BRAINS. One set of calf's brains boiled in i 
quart of water with i tablespoon of vinegar; when done remove 
and chop fine, and add i quart of strong, strained beef broth; 
season it with i tablespoon of caramel, i teaspoon of Woicester- 
shire sauce, i level teaspoon of salt, ^ teaspoon black pepper; 
thicken it with 2 tablespoons of flour rubbed in 3 tablespoons of 
melted butter; boil 5 minutes and add i quart of boiling milk, in 
which previous to mixing has been stirred i level teaspoon of soda. 
Serve immediately. Mrs. Idah M. Sh abridge. 

MARROW BALLS. Beat i egg and season with a little salt 
and pepper; stir in enough rolled cracker to make a stiff batter 
and work in about three teaspoons of marrow fat, then make in 
balls about the size of small marbles; boil in the soup about 5 min- 
utes. Mrs. R. W. Parry. 

MEAT BALLS. Get round steak, and scrape meat off with a 
sharp knife until you have a cup; rub with i^ cups moistened 
bread crumbs, i tablespoon marrow, and i tablespoon butter; mix 
with i raw egg, and if too moist to roll easily in small balls, add 
dry breadcrumbs; season with salt, pepper, the least bit of finely 
minced onion and grated nutmeg. It is better to make the balls 
several hours before using to allow them to dry. Drop in clear 
boiling soup, and cook 10 or 15 minutes. Mrs J. Vanderleith. 

POTATO SOUP. Shank of veal, 3 large potatoes, peeled and 
cooked with meat; season with salt, pepper and parsley When 
ready to serve strain and add ^ sliced lemon and wine-glass of 
sherry. Put slices ol lemon and hard-boiled eggs in plates before 
serving. Mrs. H. M. demons. 



7 

FISH. 



DEVILED CRAB. Pick the crab fine and add one-third the 
quantity of rolled cracker, moisten with cream, season with salt and 
red pepper, i tablespoon Worcestershire sauce and parsley; put 
little pieces of butter over the top; bake 20 minutes. Mrs. R. L. 
Fulton. 

BAKED TROUT (Long Island style). Make incisions 2 inches 
apart on one side of the fish, placing a small piece of bacon in each, 
lay in long baking pan and surround with potatoes, cut lengthwise 
in strips y^ inch thick, sprinkle with salt and pepper, and i table- 
spoon each of lard and butter; when half cooked pour ^ cup boil- 
ing water over the potatoes; serve in the pan, which may be con- 
cealed in a folded napkin ii desired; place a radish or small lemon 
in the mouth and garnish with parsley. Mrs- M. D. Foley. 

SALMON IN MOULD. One large cup salmon rubbed fine, 4 
eggs beaten lightly, ^ cup bread crumbs, 2 tablespoons of melted 
butter, salt and pepper; beat the crumbs into the eggs and rub the 
butter with the salmon; then put all together into a well-buttered 
mould and steam about an hour. Sauce: i^ cups of milk, i table- 
spoon of cornstarch ; boil i minute, add juice from salmon, and just 
before serving add i egg well beaten; pour over the salmon after 
turning from the mould on a platter. Mrs. H. A. Ware. 

CREOLE CRAB. Beat r egg well, add i cup cream and 2 
tablespoons melted butter, i tablespoon Worcestershire sauce, 
mace, allspice, cloves, white pepper, Cayenne pepper, salt and curry 
powder to taste; stir over the fire till it boils and pour over i finely 
picked crab, sprinkle cracker crumts on top and set in oven till 
well browned. Miss Emma Vanderleiih. 

CREAMED SHRIMPS Cover i can of shrimps with cold milk 
and allow to come to a boil, then pour off and drain; mix i table- 
spoon of flour with same of butter and add slowly i cup boiling 
cream or milk, season with salt, pepper and nutmeg; put in enough 
tomato juice to color a shrimp pink, pour this over the shrimps, 
cook a few minutes and serve in hot biscuits or over toast. Mrs. 
f. W. Dorsey. 



CREAMED OYSTERS. Put i quart of oysters on the fire in 
their own liquor, the moment it boils turn into a hot dish through a 
colander; put into the sauce pan butter the size of an egg, and 
when it bubbles sprinkle in a tablespoon of sifted flour; let it cook a 
minute without taking color, stirring with a wire whisk; then add, 
mixing well, a cup ol oyster liquor; take from the fire and mix the 
yolks of 2 eggs, a little salt and a very little Cayenne pepper, a 
tablespoon of lemon juice and a grating of nutmeg; beat it well and 
return to the fire to set the eggs without allowing it to boil ; then 
add the oysters and serve on toast. Mrs. H. A. Ware. 

FRIED OYSTERS After drying the oysters throughly, roll 
them in cracker dust and let them stand 10 minutes in a cool place; 
now roll each in beaten egg which has been seasoned with pepper 
and salt, and let them stand again for a few minutes before rolling 
in cracker a second time; if convenient to do so let them stand 
again for 10 minutes before frying, and the cracker crumbs will 
adhere perfectly; fry in a spider in half butter and half lard or drip- 
pings, or place them in a wire basket and fry in deep fat; in either 
case let the fat be very hot and watch closely. 5. S. 

THREE WAYS TO SERVE RAW OYSTERS. 

*st Take a hot brick and lay on top a smooth, clear block 
of ice and allow to remain until a cavity sufficient to hold the 
oysters is made, pour in the oysters and garnish the edge of platter 
with slices of lemon and parsley. 

2 d. I 4 ill soup plates with finely chopped ice and lay oysters 
on top. 

3d Lay each oyster on a crisp lettuce leaf and sprinkle with 
finely chopped green pepper. 



-9 

MEAT, POULTRY AND QAME. 



VEAL LOAF. Chop 2 pounds of veal with y& pound of fat 

pork, roll a dozen crackers and wet with ^ teacup of milk; mix 

all together and season with salt, pepper, grated nutmeg and lemon 

peel; bake i^ hours and when cold slice thin. Mrs A. E. 

Williams. 

CHOPS IN PAPER. Select either veal or mutton chops, trim 
and sprinkle with salt and pepper, chop a little uncooked bacon, 
mix with bread crumbs, and season as for turkey dressing; moisten 
slightly, just enough to make it into little pats, lay on each chop; 
have ready squares of browned, well-oiled paper, wrap about each 
chop and bake 12 minutes in a quick oven; serve in papers. 
Mrs. M. D. Foley. 

STEWED WILD DUCK. Split the ducks open and lay in salt 
and water for several hours, dry, dredge with flour, and sprinkle 
with salt and pepper, put a tablespoon ol butter in a frying-pan 
and when hot add a tablespoon of minced onion and 2 Jablespoons 
of bacon, cut fine; place the ducks in the pan and fry slightly on 
both sides, pour over a wineglass of sherry and cover tightly for 
10 minutes; then, a little more than cover with boiling water; 
when the duck is cooked tender remove and thicken gravy with 
flour. Have ready on a platter hot buttered toast, place the 
ducks on it and pour over the gravy; garnish with olives and 
parsley. Mrs. \k. E. Griffin. 

POT ROAST. Three pounds of cross rib, a little suet chopped 
and put in the bottom of the pot; let the meat cook in that a lew 
minutes; after it is brown put water on, pepper, 'salt and cloves, 
and let it cook until tender; when tender put a few carrots and 
tomatoes in and cook 20 minutes. It must simmer for three hours, 
for if it cooks fast it will not be tender. Mrs. W. R. Jenvey. 

CHOPPED LOAF. Two and one-quarter pounds of raw, 
chopped, lean meat, ^ pound of raw, chopped, salt pork, i raw 
finely chopped onion, i cup of bread crumbs, i cup of sweet milk, 
2 beaten eggs, i teaspoon of black pepper, ^ teaspoon of celery 
salt; mould it into a long loaf and put into a baking-pan; pour over 



it a can of tomatoes, keeping the pieces of tomato on the loai; 
while cooking (about 2^ hours) baste with the tomato juice, add- 
ing hot water if necessary; when done place the loai on a platter 
and pour over it a gravy made as follows : i sliced onion, fried in 
a heaping tablespoon of butter; when done add 2 tablespoons of 
flour; cook and add J^ cup of good beef gravy, ^ level tea- 
spoon of salt, Y level teaspoon of pepper, Mi level teaspoon of 
nutmeg, 3 tablespoons of sherry, i can of mushrooms and the 
strained gravy from the pan; boil 10 minutes. This is a nice 
gravy for a broiled steak, by using only \y z tablespoons of flour 
and omitting the tomato juice. Mrs. Idah M. Strobridge. 

CREAM CHICKEN. Two chickens, 2 sweetbreads, 2 cans of 
mushrooms; boil chickens until tender and cut as for a salad, re- 
moving all skin; bo : l sweetbreads, chop fine, chop mushrooms 
rather coarsely; mix and bake in a dish with cream dressing 
poured over, sprinkling bread crumbs, pieces of butter and a little 
dressing over the top; bake 20 minutes. 

Cream Dressing. One pint of sweet cream, i% tablespoons 
of flour, 2 tablespoons butter, a little nutmeg, i very small onion 
grated, a little Cayenne pepper and salt to taste; scald cream and 
rub butter with flour; cook all together to the consistency of 
cream. For 10 people. Mrs. Annie R. Chambers. 

SAGE CHICKENS. Lay 2 or 3 large thin slices of onion on the 
breast of each chicken; outside of that lay thin slices of fat salt 
pork, tying all on securely with string and previously putting a 
quarter of an onion inside of each chicken; after peppering them 
well, put them in a covered pot with enough water to cook, 
but not enough to cover them, turn them occasionally; when 
a fork thrust in the breast turns easily cut the strings, remove the 
pork and onion and put all in a dripping-pan with the water in 
which they were cooked; baste and turn them often; when brown 
place the chickens on a hot platter, and serve -them with the gravy, 
made as follows : Strain the water from the dripping-pan and if 
not enough add sufficient boiling water to make a pint; thicken it 
with i tablespoon of browned flour rubbed smooth in 2 tablespoons 
of melted butter; add ^ teaspoon of black pepper; ^ teaspoon 
of salt, i teaspoon of caramel, and i teaspoon of Worcestershire 
sauce: cook a few moments, and it too thick add enough hot 



water to thin it, together with the giblets, which have been boiled 
and chopped very fine. Mrs. G. IV. Mcacham. 

SAM BALL. Boil i chicken, chop the dark and light meat 
very fine, mix with it butter the size of an egg, 3 tablespoons ot 
cream, 3 eggs well beaten, salt and pepper to taste; rub butter in- 
side of Charlotte Russe pan and line with green peas, then put in 
chicken mixture and steam i hour; turn out of mould and cove 1 " 
with cream sauce. Mrs. H. A. Ware. 

STUFFED BAKED PEPPERS. Two coffee cups chopped veal, 
seasoned with i tablespoon of minced onion, i large tomato cut 
fine, salt and a little summer savory, thyme or sage as preferred; 
open the green peppers on the side, remove the seeds, stuff with 
the meat, place in baking-pan with a little water and drippings, 
baste frequently; when done remove, make gravy in same pan by 
the addition of a tablespoon of flour rubbed with the same of but- 
ter, and i teaspoon of caramel; pour over the peppers and serve. 
Mrs. W. E. Griffin. 



VKQETABLBS. 



TOMATO A L' ITALIENNE. One quart tomatoes, i small 
onion, 3 ounces of ham, ^ cup rice, 2 tablespoons cheese, i 
tablespoon butter, ^ teaspoon salt, Y% each white pepper, Cayenne 
and nutmeg; cook tomatoes, onions, ham and rice for i hour; 
add seasoning about 15 minutes before serving. Mrs. E. R. 
Dodge. 

CABBAGE PUDDING One-half head of cabbage chopped 
fine, pour on boiling water and let stand 15 minutes, drain, add 2 
eggs and bread crumbs equal to the amount of cabbage, i cup oi 
milk, lump of butter, salt and pepper to taste; bake until brown 
and serve in the dish in which it was baked. Miss E. C. Babcock. 

SCALLOPED POTATOES. Peel, slice thin and lay in a dish in 
layers, season with salt and pepper, cover with cream or milk, if 
milk add a lump of butter, and bake > or ^ of an hour.- 
Miss E. C. Babcock. 



12 

GREEN CORN PUDDING. Draw a sharp knife through each 
row of corn lengthwise, then scrape out the pulp; to i pint of 
corn take i quart of milk, 3 eggs, a little suet, pepper and salt 
and a few lumps of butter, stir it occasionally till thick, and bake 
about 2 hours. For canned corn use less milk and bake i hour. 
M. E. G. 

POTATO PUFF. Take 2 cups mashed potatoes, 2 tablespoons 
melted butter, beat to a cream and add 2 eggs well beaten, a tea- 
cup oi cream or milk, salt to taste; beat all well; put in a baking 
dish in a quick oven until nicely browned F. A. M. 

FRIED TOMATOES. Peel ripe tomatoes and cut crosswise in 
large slices ; dip in egg and then in rolled cracker, Iry in hot lard 
and butter and serve hot with pepper, salt and the least bit of fine 
sugar sprinkled over; garnish with a little minced green pepper or 
parsley. M. E. G. 

CABBAGE. Slice cabbage rather coarse and cook in milk 
instead of water, when tender add butter, pepper and salt. A. Y. 

POTATO SOUFFLE. Bake 3 even sized potatoes; when done 
cut lengthwise in half, scoop out the potato into a hot bowl, add 2 
teaspoons butter, i tablespoon hot cream, salt and pepper; beat 
whites of 2 eggs stiff and mix with potatoes ; fill skins and set in 
oven to brown. Miss M. Brown. 



SALAD. 



MAYONNAISE. First see that the dish and ingredients to be 
used are cold, and use a fork for stirring, rub i teaspoon best 
mustard with yolk of one egg, and when smooth add oil, ^ tea- 
spoon at a time, stirring briskly all the while; when the mixture 
becomes like jelly add ^ teaspoon each of salt and sugar, white 
and Cayenne pepper to taste, i teaspoon Worcestershire sauce and 
a tablespoon of vinegar or lemon juice. Mrs. M. D. Foley. 

, TOMATO SALAD. One pint canned tomatoes, ^ package of 
gelatine soaked in ^ pint cold water; put the tomatoes on to boil, 



and when they have boiled about 10 minutes add the gelatine and 
a pinch of salt; let boil for about 5 miuutes, take from the stove, 
strain into a square mould and set away to cool; when it becomes 
firm put a hot cloth around the mould and turn the jelly out on 
a salad plate, put fresh lettuce leaves around and serve with 
mayonnaise dressing. Mrs. R. D. Jackson. 

RUSSIAN SALAD. Three cuos cold boiled potatoes, cut in 
small slices or dice, i cup chopped cabbage, i cup chopped celery, 
Y-Z cup chopped boiled beets, % cup chopped onion, ^ cup 
chopped parsley; mix with cream dressing and garnish with hard 
boiled eggs sliced, olives and lemons peeled and sliced. Mrs. 
Henry Rives. 

SUMMER SALAD. Peel and slice 6 ripe tomatoes and 4 
cucumbers, remove seeds from 4 green peppers and chop tine; 
mix with mayonnaise dressing. M. E. G. 

TOMATO SALAD. Select the required number of even sized 
ripe, smooth tomatoes, peel and lay each on a crisp lettuce leaf 
with a spoonful of mayonnaise dressing, turning the stem side up, 
place in hollow ^ stuffed egg covered with thin slice of lemon with 
rind removed. S. S. 

STUFFED EGGS. Hard boil desired number of eggs and 
cut crosswise in half with a sharp knife, carefully remove the yolk, 
rub with it a little oil and vinegar, season with mustard and pepper, 
fill each white with this mixture. Mrs. M. D. Foley. 

CREAM SALAD DRESSING. Three eggs, ^ pint vinegar, i 
teaspoon salt, butter half the size of an egg, i tablespoon of 
mustard, 3 tablespoons of cream, 3 teaspoons sugar, boil salt, 
sugar and vinegar together, mix butter and mustard, then add 
cream and eggs well beaten, put all in vinegar and stir quickly. - 
Mrs. B. F. Bacon. 



14 

DESSERTS. 



LEMON PUDDING. One quart boiling water. I cup sugar, 4 
tablespoons cornstarch, pinch of salt, grated rind of 2 lemons and 
juice ol i ; let it come to a boil and when cold serve with whipped 
cream. Mrs. J. M. Fulton 

CHERRY PUDDING. One-half pint sifted flour, i teaspoon 
baking powder, a little salt, also a little butter rubbed in flour; mix 
into a soft dough as for biscuits and roll out spreading with cher- 
ries; then roll together and lay in a pan, putting in pieces ol 
butter and i cup of sugar; pour on boiling water and bake about 
25 minutes; add more water if it cooks away too fast as this makes 
the sauce to serve with the pudding. Mrs. R. Brown. 

LEMON PIE. Yolks of 4 eggs beaten light, i teacup sugar, 
i teacup cold water, grated rind and juice of one lemon, 4 table- 
spoons powdered cracker, i tablespoon melted butter and little 
salt; take the whites oi 3 well-beaten eggs with ^ cup sugar, to 
put over the pie when baked, and brown it in the oven. Mrs. J. 
M. Fulton. 

OREME AU CARAMEL. Scald i pint milk, dissolve in a dry 
sauce-pan i cup of dark brown sugar until it becomes a liquid, 
stirring all the time; moisten 2 tablespoons ol cornstarch with cold 
milk and mix with beaten yolks ol 4 eggs; when milk is hot stir in 
gradually dissolved sugar, taking care it does not harden; then add 
eggs and cornstarch, boil till it thickens and flavor with 2 teaspoons" 
vanilla, fust before serving beat ^ pint cream stiff and put on 
top; serve cold. Mrs. J. H. Ware. 

LEMON MERINGUE PUDDING. Put on i cup rice to boil in 
5 cups of water with ^ teaspoon salt; when the rice is done add ^ 
cup white sugar and the yolks ol 2 eggs beaten very light; before 
taking from the stove add the grated rind of i lemon; let it cool 
and then spread with a thin layer of currant jelly, or any kind pre- 
ierred, and cover with meringue of the whites of 2 eggs, to which 
has been added 4 teaspoons powdered sugar beaten very stiff, and 
then add the juice of the lemon; set in the oven to brown and eat 
cold with or without cream. Mrs. R. D. Jackson 



15 

INDIAN PUDDING. Six tablespoons meal, 2 tablespoons 
butter, i cup molasses, 2 teaspoons ginger and a little salt; mix 
and pour into i quart boiling milk, add i cup cold water when 
ready to bake; bake i hour. Mrs. R. B . Chisholm. 

LEMON BUTTER. Two pints white sugar, i^ pints water, 3 
eggs well-beaten, i tablespoon butter, 2 tablespoons cornstarch, 
juice of 2 lemons, rind of i; cook in a double boiler. Mrs. E. 
R Dodge. 

GRAHAM PUDDING. One egg, ^ cup milk, r tablespoon 
melted butter, scant ^ cup of currants, same of raisins, citron 
size of walnut cut fine, ^ cup brown sugar, ^ cup molasses, i 
cup graham flour i scant teaspoon soda dissolved in 2 tablespoons 
hot water, % teaspoon cinnamon, ^ teaspoon each allspice and 
cloves, i teaspoon vanilla; steam 2 hours 

Sauce. One-half cup butter, i cup powdered sugar, i table- 
spoon rum in 2 of cold water; cream butter with hand first, add 
sugar, then rum and water a few drops at a time; set on ice for an 
hour, and just before serving place in double boiler and stir con- 
stantly till like cream. Mrs. J. W. Dorsey. 

LEMON JELLY. One- half package gelatine soaked 2 hours 
in 1/2 cup cold water, and i cup sugar add juice of 2 lemons, pour 
over this mixture i pint boiling water and stir till dissolved, strain 
through a napkin and turn into molds dipped first in cold water. -- 
Mrs. H. W. Higgins. 

COLD CREAM PODDING. One pint milk, 4 eggs, i pint 
cream, ^ box pink gelatine, 15 cents macaroons, pinch of salt, 
vanilla and sugar to taste; dissolve gelatine in ^ pint water, boil 
milk, stir in yolks of eggs and gelatine and let it cool; whip cream 
and whites of eggs stiff, then mix all together, putting the maca- 
roons last; put on ice. Mrs. Geo. Hymers. 

JELLIED ORANGES. Select desired number of large thick 
skinned oranges, wash and cut crosswise in half; carefully remove 
pulp without breaking the rind and squeeze out the juice; 
take juice of i lemon to every 3 oranges and i tablespoon pine- 
apple juice, add enough water to make a little more than a quart, 
sweeten to taste and dissolve in it ^ box of gelatine, Jet come to a 
boil, and when partially cool pour into the orange rinds; set in a 
cold place to harden. Mrs. M. D. Foley. 



APPLE SNOW. Bake six large apples, remove the skins and 

rub through a colander; when cool add the juice and rind of i 

lemon and >^ cup sugar; beat the whites of 5 eggs to a stiff froth 

and gradually beat in the apples; serve with boiled custard. Mrs. 

W. O. Mills. 

BOILED CUSTARD. Sweeten i quart of cream or milk to taste 
and put in double boiler; when hot stir in the well-beaten yolks of 
4 eggs, cook a tew minutes, stirrihg constantly, then remove and 
flavor with i tablespoon vanilla. ,51 ,5". 



ICES AND ICE CREAM. 



CURRANT AND RASPBERRY ICE. One quart red currants, 
i pint raspberries, i pint of water, i^ pints of sugar; squeeze out 
the juice, mix in the sugar and water and freeze. Mrs. H. W. 
Higgins. 

CARAMEL ICE CREAM. Dissolve in a dry sauce-pan i cup ol 
dark brown sugar until it becomes a liquid, stirring all the time, 
add this to a quart oi cream and freeze. Mrs. Anthony Schmitt. 

PINEAPPLE SHERBEHT. Take a pineapple, remove heart and 
eyes and chop fine, dissolve i tablespoon gelatine in cold water 
enough to cover it for i hour, i pint of sugar, i pint water, put all 
together and then add ^ teacup hot water. Mrs. Henry Rives. 

POMONA SHERBERT. One quart cider, i pint orange juice, i 
pound sugar, i tablespoon sherry, i tablespoon brandy. Miss 
Emma Vanderleith. 

STRAWBERRY WATER ICE. Juice of i quart of berries, equal 
quantity of water i pound of sugar, whites of 2 eggs and i table- 
spoon gelatine. Soak gelatine in ^ pint of water a few moments; 
put remaining quantity of water on to boil and dissolve gelatine in 
it; mash the berries, cover with the sugar, let it stand i hour or 
more, then press out the juice, add the water and freeze, add the 
whites of eggs when partly frozen; close carefully and freeze again 
and set away for an hour or two. R. /,. D. 



17 

MERINGUE GLACE. One and one-half pints of boiling milk, 
Y cup granulated sugar, i dessert spoon of vanilla, 4 dessert 
spoons gelatine that has been soaked i hour in 4 dessert spoons of 
cold water, stir over the fire till dissolved, then strain it into 1^/2 
pints of cold, thick, sweet cream; when cold freeze, remove paddl'- 
from freezer, press cream down firmly, let it stand for an hour'; 
when ready to serve turn it into an earthen dish, smooth it down 
and spread over it a meringue made of the whipped whites of 5 
eggs and 5 tablespoons of granulated sugar; set it in a milk pan 
in which is poured the ice and ice- water from the freezer; set the 
pan on the top shelf of a very hot oven and brown the meringue as 
rapidly as possible; serve immediately with macaroons and lady- 
fingers. Mrs. Idah M. Strobridge. 



CAKE. 



VELVET SPONGE CAKE. Two scant cups of sugar, yolks of 
5 e gg s J Deat e *&- s aill -l sugar to a cream at least 15 minutes, then 
add i large cup boiling water, 3 large cups sifted flour, to which 
add 2 heaped teaspoons baking powder and a pinch of salt; add 
the beaten whites, flavor to taste, and bake in a moderate oven. 
Mrs. L. S. Greenlaw. 

NOUGAT CAKE. -One-half cup butter, creamed with 2 cups oi 
granulated sugar; add i cup sweet milk and i 1 /? teaspoons almond 
extract; beat well with the hand; do not use a spoon, and add 
alternately the whipped whites of 8 eggs and 2 cups of flour that 
has been sifted 5 times with 3 teaspoons baking powder; beat hard 
and pour into 5 jelly cake tins that are lined with paper clipped an 
inch deep in the edges all the way round, to fit closely in the tins 
and that are well greased on boih sides with melted sweet lard; 
when cold spread between the layers the following : r quart oi 
whipped cream sweetened with i cjp of powdered sugar, to which 
is added 2 cups of blanched English walnuts and 2 teaspoons of 
rose extract; cover the top and sides with an icing made of the 
whipped whites of 3 eggs, i cup of powdered sugar and 2 ten 4 



spoons of lemon extract; before it hardens press blanched almonds 
in halves into it. Mrs. Idah M. Strobridge. 

ANGEL FOOD. One tumbler of granulated sugar, ^ tumbler 
of powdered sugar, i tumbler of sifted flour, i even teaspoon of 
cream tartar; sift all together 4 times and stir gradually into the 
thoroughly beaten whites of 12 eggs; flavor to taste; bake in 
unbuttered tin in a moderate oven; after baking invert on a toaster 
till cool. Mrs. J. M. Fulton. 

SPONGE CAKE. Two cups sugar, 2 cups flour, 4 eggs, 2 
teaspoons baking powder, ^ cup boiling water; add the water 
last. The cake may seem too thin, but will come all right from the 
oven. Mrs. H. M. demons. 



DOUCHNUTS. One ettp bdtter, 2 cups sugar, 4 eggs, i cup 
sour milk or cream, i teaspoon soda dissolved in hot water, i tea- 
spoon grated nutmeg, ^ teaspoon of cinnamon; add sufficient 
flour to roll out in pretty soft dough, cut as desired and fry in hot 
lard. Mrs. H. M.' demons. 

WALNUT CAKE. Three-fourths cup of butter, 2 cups sugar 
i cup of sour cream, 4 cups of flour, whites of 7 eggs and yolks 
of 2 beaten separately, i teaspoon soda, 2 teaspoons baking 
powder, i pt of walnut meats rolled out and sprinkled with flour. 
Mrs. J. M. Fulton. 

FRUIT CAKE.- -Twelve eggs, i pound brown sugar, i pounci 
butter, 2 coffee cups N. O. molasses, i pound of fl:ur (browned), 
4 pounds raisins, 4 pounds currants, i pound citron (and walnuts 
if desired), i tablespoon each ot cinnamon, nutmeg, cloves and 
allspice, i pint brandy, ^ teaspoon soda, bake six hours; after 
baked pour over it while warm a pint of wine. Sherry, Angelica, 
or any other sweet wine. Mrs. Geo. J. Perkins. 

SPICED COFFEE CAKE. One cup of brown sugar, not quite 
cup of butter, 2 eggs, ^ cup molasses, i cup strong cold coffee, 
i teaspoon soda sifted with flour, 2 teaspoons cinnamon, i tea- 
spoorfcloves, flour enough to make stiff batter, and i cup seeded 
raisins, (floured); bake about an hour. Mrs. R. W. Parry. 

CRACKER CAKE. Three eggs, i large cup cracker flour, i 
large cup sugar, i large cup blanched almonds chopped, 5 
tablespoons grated chocolate, i teaspoon allspice, i teaspoon 






19- 

cinnamon, ^ teaspoon cloves, i teaspoon vanilla, ^ cup shaved 
citron and lemon peel; beat yolks and sugar to a cream, add 3 
tablespoons chocolate and spices, almonds, whites of 7 eggs and 
flour; bake in 3 layers and spread jelly between; take whites 
reserved and 2 tablespoons chocolate with sugar, beat well and use 
tor icing. Mrs. H. Berg stein, 

NUT CAKE. One and one-half cups sugar, y? cup butter, \ 
cup sweet milk, j cup chopped nuts (floured), whites of 4 eggs, 2 
teaspoons baking powder, flour enough to make quite a stiff batter; 
add whites of eggs last, alternating with flour. Mrs. R. Brown. 

MINNEHAHA CAKE One and one-half cups sugar, ^ cup 
sweet milk, 2 heaping cups flour with 2 teaspoons baking powder, 
whites of 6 eggs beaten thoroughly; bake in sheets or round layers. 

Filling. Boil teacup sugar in a little water until brittle when 
dropped in cold water, remove from the fire and stir quickly into 
the well-beaten white of an egg; add to this a cup of stoned raisins 
chopped tine and nearly a cup of chopped nuts; place between 
layers and on top, or make plain icing for top. Mrs. R. Brown, 

GINGER SNAPS. One large cup butter and lard mixed, i cup 
brown sugar, i cup molasses, ^ cup hot water,-! tablespoon 
ginger and cinnamon each, i teaspoon cloves, i tettespoon soda 
dissolved in hot water, flour for quite a stiff dough, roll out thinner 
than sugar cookies and bake quickly. These are richer by adding 
i egg and will keep for weeks. Mrs. R. Brown. 

GIXGKR BRKAI>. - One cup New Orleans molasses, i cup ol 
line sugar, i cup of sour cream, i teaspoon soda stirred in it, 3 
cups flour, 3 eggs, ^ teaspoon each ground ginger, cinnamon, 
cloves and allspice. Mrs. G. A. Fletcher. 

GINGER SNAPS. Boil coffee cup molasses, put in tablespoon 
soda, beat up i egg with coftee cup brown sugar and j table 
spoon vinegar; add this to boiling molasses with 2 teaspoons 
ginger; mix very stiff with flour. Mrs. Gorham. 

SPONGE CAKE One pound powdered sugar, j^ pound 
flour, i dozen eggs, i lemon, separate the whites and yolks of 
eggs, beat whites to a froth and set in a cool place; beat yolks and 
sugar together thoroughly, add juice of the lemon, stir in the well 



20 



silted flour, the whites of eggs added gradually; bake 40 minutes 
and let cool in pan. Mrs. Elizabeth A. Perry. 

SPONGE DROPS. Four eggs, y 2 cup powdered sugar, ^ cup 
flour, % salt spoon of salt, flavor to suit, mix as for sponge cake, 
drop on a buttered pan, sprinkled with powdered sugar, and bake 
15 minutes. Mrs. Elizabeth A. Perry. 

COOKIES. Two-thirds cup sour milk, 2,3 cup lard and butter 
mixed, 2 eggs, 2 cups sugar, i teaspoon soda, seasoned to taste; 
mix stiff and roll very thin; bake in a quick oven. Mrs. M. H. 
Williams. 

CREAM PUFFS. One-fourth of a pound oi butter, ^ pound 
flour, 5 eggs, i pint boiling water; put butter and water on fire, 
and while boiling stir in flour; remove from fire, add beaten eggs, 
and stir until cool; bake in a quick oven 20 minutes. 

Cream. One-half cup flour, i cup sugar, 2 eggs; beat to a 
cream and add to i pint of boiling milk; flavor to taste. Mrs. C. 
A. 



DARK CHOCOLATE CAKE. One cup dark brown sugar, ' 
cup butter, 2 eggs, ^ cup sweet milk, 2 cups flour. 

Cream One cup grated chocolate, ^ cup milk, ^ of a cup 
dark brown sugar, i egg, i teaspoon vanilla; cook like cream in 
custard kettle and mix in the first recipe, sprinkle i teaspoon dry 
soda on mixture and stir well ; bake in layers and put frosting 
between. 

Frosting. One cup sugar. 5 tablespoons milk, boil 8 minutes 
and beat light with a fork. --Mrs. W. R. Jenvey. 

WHITE CUP CAKE.- -One cup butter, 2 cups powdered 
sugar, i cup sweet milk, 3 cups flour, 3 even teaspoons baking 
powder sifted in the flour, whites of 8 eggs beaten to a stiff froth ; 
good for loaf or layer.- --Mrs. M. E. Arrowsmith 

CUP CAKE. --One cup butter, 2 cups powdered sugar, i cup 
sweet milk, 3 cups flour, 5 eggs, 3 even teaspoons baking powder 
well sifted in flour; cream the butter, gradually add milk, then the 
flour and whites of eggs; good for loaf or \ayer. --Mrs. M. E. 
Arrowsmith. 

SNOW CAKE. ---One-half teacup butter, i teacup sugar, 1^2 



teacups flour, ^ teacup sweet milk, i teaspoon baking powder, 
whites of 4 eggs, flavor with lemon. Miss E. G. Gibbs. 

LAYER CAKE. Two cups sugar, i cup butter, i cup milk, 
3}^ cups flour, yolks of 5 eggs, whites of 2 eggs. */ teaspoon 
soda, i teaspoon cream of tartar sifted into flour; bake in jelly cake 
tins. Mrs. H. W. Higgins. 

LAYEK CAKE. Not quite i cup of sugar, not quite */2 cup of 
butter, mixed but not creamed, 3 eggs dropped in, ^ cup of milk, 
3 cups flour, i teaspoon baking powder; stir quickly and bake. 
Mrs. Henry Rives. 

LAYER CAKE FILLING. 

Lemon. Grated rind and ^ the juice of i large lemon 

stirred with yolk of i egg, % cup of butter, add fine sugar to 

make stiff enough to spread : equally good made with an orange. 
Mrs. M. D. Foley. 

Opera Cream. Two cups brown sugar, }/> cup cream, y$ 
cup butter, boil about 5 minutes, stirring all the time; remove from 
the fire and stir cool; add % teaspoon vanilla; spread between 
and on top of layers of white cake. Mrs. E. R. Clute. 

Chopped Raisin. One cup stoned raisins, i lemon peeled 
and seeded, chop together and mix with cup sugar and a little 
water. If cake has good crust put together while warm. Mrs. J. 
L. Fast. 

Sour Cream. One-half cup sour cream, >^ cup sweet cream, 
i cup sugar; boil till thick and then add i cup chopped walnuts. 
Mrs. W. E. Griffin. 

Pineapple. One and one-halt cups chopped pineapple free 
from juice, i% cups whipped cream, 4 tablespoons powdered 
sugar, a pinch of soda.---^. ^9. 



-22 



BREAD AND BREAKFAST 
CAKES. 



SALT RISING BREAD. At dinner time in the evening take 2 
even tablespoons of corn-meal, j teaspoon soda, ^ teaspoon salt 
and put on boiling water to make a very thin batter; put this in a 
warm place until the second morning after; this water should be 
full of bubbles; then take a large bowl and put in it a teacup oi 
warm water, the same amount of salt and soda as in the first batter 
and thicken quite stiff with Riverside flour and stir it into the con- 
tents of the first bowl. Put this in a warm place and when the 
bowl is full take a quart of warm water, or more, if you wish more 
than 4 loaves of bread, thicken it with flour and pour in the 
contents of the bowl. Let this rise about an inch then make into 
loaves with as little flour and kneading as possible; set again in a 
warm place until very light and bake as other bread. Mrs. C T. 
Bender. 

COHN BREAD. One-half cup sifted flour, add i rounding tea- 
spoon baking powder and sift again, add \% cups cornmeal, 2 
rounding tablespoons granulated sugar and ^ rounding teaspoon 
salt, rub well together and then add i heaping teaspoon of butter 
nie'ted after measuring; rub it well into the flour and add 3 well- 
beaten eggs and i^ cups sweet milk; beat hard and pour into hot 
gem pans or a shallow tin well greased with sweet lard. M?s. G. 
W. Meacham. 

BBOWM BREAD. One large cup cornmeal, i large cup 
graham meal, ^ cup molasses, i cup sour milk, i teaspoon soda, 
dissolved in i cup boiling water, salt; steam 3 hours. Mrs. C. A. 
Bragg. 

WAFFLES. One pint sour milk, 3 tablespoons melted butter, 
3 e 8 s beaten separately, i teaspoon soda, a little salt, and flour 
enough to make a thick batter. Mrs. J. L. FasL 

PUFF MUFFINS. Mix smoothly together i pint milk and i 
pint flour, season with i teaspoon salt, beat 4 eggs very light and 
stir- in just before baking; pour into hot buttered muffin pans. 
Mrs. J. W. Dorsey. 



-23 

GEMS OF ROLLED OATS. Soak 2 cups rolled oats over night 
in \Y^ cups sour milk, add i level teaspoon soda, i teaspoon salt, 
y<z teacup brown sugar, i teacup sifted flour and 2 well-beaten eggs 
in order given, dissolve soda in a little water; bake 25 minutes. 
Mrs. Stewart Logan. 

OLD VIRGINIA CORN DODGERS. One-half pint rich sour 
cream, ^ cup sweet milk, i egg, i tablespoon melted butter, % 
teaspoon salt, ^ tablespoon soda; beat well and then add enough 
fine corn meal so that a spoonful will just keep its shape without 
spreading; have a quick oven and drop a large spoonful at a time 
on well-greased pans; bake a rich brown and eat hot. Mrs. G. 
W. Meacham. 



PICKLES AND PRESERVES 



TOMATO CATSUP. One- half bushel of perfectly ripe toma- 
toes; wash and cut in pieces, then put over the fire and let them 
come to a boil, remove and when they are sufficiently cool to allow 
your hands in them rub through a wire sieve; add to strained juice 
2 teacups salt, ^ teacup each ground allspice and cloves, and i 
quart best vinegar, and 4 pounds brown sugar; boil i hour, stirring 
constantly to avoid burning. If too thick add vinegar, and if too 
thin cook longer; bottle and seal for use. Mrs. L. S. Greenlaw. 

CURRANT JELLY WITHOUT COOKING. Mash the currants, 
strain the juice from them, and to every pint add a pound of sugar, 
mix well, stir till the sugar is dissolved; put in glass jars and set in 
the hot sun for 2 or 3 days, stir occasionally, and when jellied 
seal. Mrs. H. M. demons. 

BOTTLED PICKLES. Wash and wipe medium sized cucumbers 
suitable for pickling; place in a stone jar, make a brine oi cold 
water and salt and pour it over them ; let stand about 24 hours, 
then wipe each cucumber carefully, place in stone jars or glass 
bottles layers of pickles, slices of onions, horseradish and white 
mustard seeds till the jar is full; place on the stove a kettle with 
enough cider vinegar to cover the pickles; put into it small bags of 



24 

spices (cloves and cinnamon) and a few small red peppers and 
mustard seed; when it comes to a boil pour it over the pickles; 
place a small plate on the pickles to keep them under the vinegar 
and cover with the cloth; if let alone they will keep for months. 
Mrs. J. N. Evans. 

SPICED BLUE PLUMS. For 10 pounds fruit allow 7 pounds 
sugar, i cup broken cinnamon and ^ cup cloves; cook till like 
jam, then add 2 cups vinegar; boil ro minutes, tie spices in muslin 
bags. A. R. J. 

CHILI SAUCE. Twelve ripe tomatoes, 4 small onions, 3 small 
peppers, 3 tablespoons sugar, 3 cups vinegar; chop all very fine 
and cook away nearly one-half. Mrs. R. L. Fulton. 

CHIDNER SAUCE. Peel 24 ripe tomatoes, and 13 apples, add 
\y<2, tablespoons of salt, i pound brown sugar, % pound white 
mustard seed, ^ ounce ground ginger, ^ teaspoon of red pepper, 
i tablespoon cinnamon, i teaspoon mace, i^ pounds onions 
chopped; boil the tomatoes in a quart of vinegar and i quart of 
water till tender, then add the other ingredients and boil i '- 
hours. Mrs. S. R. Wasson. 

SPICED CARROTS. Soak in cold water, then boil till tender, 
not soft; to i pound carrots use ^ pounds sugar and ^ cup 
vinegar; boil water, sugar and vinegar together; add the carrots 
and cook a few minutes, remove and cook syrup a little longer: 
cool and pour over carrots. The next day pour off syrup, boil 
and flavor with a little lemon and citron peel sliced fine, stick 
cinnamon and whole cloves, skim, and when cold and pour over 
carrots. Mrs. H. Berg stein. 

GREEN TOMATO SPICED PICKLE. Allow i onion and 2 
green peppers to every 8 green tomatoes ot average size; peel and 
slice tomatoes and chop onions and peppers alter removing the 
pepper seeds; mix and place in a jar with plenty of salt and put 
weight on top; let stand over night, then pour off the liquor and 
cover with cold water; if too salt change water till just right, drain 
well and cook till tender with vinegar enough to cover; season 
while cooking as follows : To every 2 quarts of tomatoes (meas- 
ured when dranied) add ^ coffee cup white mustard seed, */> cup 
celery seed tied in bag, ^ coffee cup allspice tied in bag, l / 2 coffee 



25 

cup ginger root; let stand in jar 3 days, boil again roor 15 minut< - 
then bottle. Mrs. Henry Rives. 

CUCUMBER PICKLES. Four quarts cucumbers soaked over 
night in strong brine, wipe off, add 3 long green peppers, 4 small 
onions, 2 tablespoons white mustard seed, a piece of alum about 
the size of a walnut; take enough good vinegar to cover them and 
bring to a boil, pour on the pickles and seal up. Mrs. J. M. 
Fulton. 

MUSTARD PICKLES. Equal quantities cucumbers, green 
tomatoes sliced, cauliflower cut in small pieces and small onions; 
cover in strong salt water 24 hours, then scald the brine and dis- 
solve in it alum the size of a nutmeg; pour boiling brine over 
pickles, when cold drain thoroughly and prepare as much vinegar 
as there was brine; to i quart vinegar add i cup brown sugar, ^ 
cup flour and ^ pound ground mustard, stir the boiling vinegar 
with it, and when smooth pour over the pickles. Mrs. Idah M. 
Sir abridge. 

CHILI SAUCE. Twenty- four ripe tomatoes peeled, 12 green 
peppers seeded, 5 onions, 8 apples paired and cored, 4 teacups 
vinegar, 4 tablespoons salt, 2 tablespoons each ground ginger and 
cloves; cut all up fine and cook slowly 2 hours. ,5*. 6* 

TOMATO CATSUP. One-half bushel ripe tomatoes, i dozen 
large onions, i dozen green peppers, i dozen Chili peppers; cut 
all in pieces and cook till thoroughly done; rub through a wire 
sieve, a little at a time, till every particle of pulp is secured, then 
return to the fire and add. salt to taste, ^ cup each of allspice and 
mustard seed, ^ cup each cloves and celery seed, and ^ dozen 
pieces of ginger root; use whole spice and tie in muslin bags; cook 
slowly till quite thick, stirring frequently to prevent burning, and 
when done add 2 cups sugar and i l / 2 quarts vinegar; boil a few 
minutes and then bottle and seal with wax. Mrs. M. D. Foley. 

CRAB APPLE JELLY;* Wash the fruit, place in kettle and 
cover with water; boil until thoroughly cooked, then place in bag and 
allow to drain, but do not squeeze. For each pint of this liquor 
allow i pound of sugar; boil from 20 to 30 minutes. A. R. J. 

INDIA PICKLE. One gallon best cider vinegar 2 ounces each 
powdered ginger, mustard seed, allspice and salt, >^ ounce each 






26 

ground cloves and cinnamon, piece of alum size of a walnut; boil 
15 minutes, mix ^ pound ground mustard with 2 ounces tumeric 
and enough vinegar to make a thin paste, and add to the above; 
let it just come to a boil and pour into a stone jar. Any kind of 
vegetables may be added to this in their season cauliflower, string 
beans, onions, cucumbers, watermelon rind, small green tomatoes 
or peppers. Parboil the vegetables in salt water, throw into cold 
water, dry and put into the dressing; tie the spices in a thin muslin 
cloth and boil in the vinegar 15 minutes; stir frequently in warm 
weather. Mrs. S. Unsworth. 







27- 



A. H. MANNING, 

RCN0, NEVADA. 



^DEALER 




Buck Stoves, Ranges, Crockery, Glassw 

And Fine China. 



HOUSE FURNISHING GOODS 



OF ALL KINDS, 



IRON PIPE, PdMPS, PAINTS AND OILS. 



of Jip ar?d Qopper U/are 

PLUMBING AND TIN ROOFING. 



, Plo\v and Harrows, 
Kami IMachinery. 



, Plow and Stove Extras a 



-28 



THK PALACK 

Dry Qoods ar?d Qarpet 



RKNO, 

THE LARGEST STOCK, 



THE FINEST GOODS, 



AT LOWEST PRICES. 



Country Orders receive prompt and careful attention. Samples sent on 

application. 

Palace IDpy Goods and Garpeb (House, 



Miscellaneous Recipes. 

BLACKBERRY CORDIAL. Wash the berries and boil a few 
minutes; when cool press the juice out and strain; to a pint of 
juice add ^ of a pound oi crushed sugar, and if the berries are 
very acid use more sugar; boil about 5 minutes with cloves and 
cinnamon tied in a bag, more cinnamon than cloves; skim, strain, 
and add i pint brandy to 4 pints juice. Mrs. J. R. Bradley. 

CARAMEL, FOR SOUP AND GRAVY. Melt i cup dark brown 
sugar with i tablespoon water in a frying pan; stir until it becomes 
liquid; add i cup boiling water and simmer 10 minutes; bottle 
when cold S. ,S. 

MACARONI Boil the macaroni in salted water till tender, i 
small onion cut fine, fried to a light brown in butter size of a small 
egg, and 2 tablespoons of olive oil; stir in i large tablespoon of 
flour, add L oiling water and ^ can tomatoes; if too thick add 
more water, put in ^ cup of grated cheese, salt and pepper to 
taste, drain water off macaroni, put in a dish, pour gravy over it 
and mix well together. Mrs. S. R. Wasson. 



2 9 

ESTABLISHED 1868. 

~*PI0NEER GLOTHING 

-^i-M. NATHAN, Proprietor.'IC*" - 

DEALER IN 

Clothing, Boots, Shoes, Hats and Caps, Underwear, Etc. 

Mail Orders will Receive Prompt Attention . 
P. O. BOX 455- VIRGINIA ST., RENO, NEW 



DKAI,ER IN- 



Virginia St., next door to Nevada Bank, Reno, Nevada. 

Constantly Receiving Latest Styles of all kinds of Dry Goods & Carpels 

S, J. HODGKINSON, 



Toilet Articles, 



chemicals, Virginia Street, 

Patent Medicines. 



^PRESCRIPTIONS, THE SPECIALTY.^ 



30 

Tt]is will Interest YoillX^ * 

If you want a WATCH, a DIAMOND, or a PIN, 
A handsome RING, and box to keep them in, 
End your search at HERZ'S store; 
Enter, do not stand outside the door. 
Let your heart be free of care, 
R. HERZ'S place is always fair; 
Rich and poor will guarantee 
Superfine's the quality. 



Miscellaneous Recipes. 

SPAGHETTI. One-half pound spaghetti broken into inch 
pieces, ^ pound grated cheese (hard cheese is best), }h pint of 
canned tomatoes or 4 large fresh ones, >^ pint soup stock, 2 Chili 
peppers chopped fine, i onion chopped fine, 2 eggs; put on the 
spaghetti in a sauce-pan of boiling water, and ^ teaspoon of salt; 
boil till quite tender, put on the soup stock with tomatoes, onions 
and peppers; boil until they are thoroughly done, drain the 
spaghetti and pour over it the soup stock (strained or not), add a 
large piece of butter, put in ^ the grated cheese, mix together 
thoroughly, put in a baking dish, cover with remainder of cheese, 
and the eggs beaten very light; bake until a light brown and serve 
hot. Mrs. R. D. Jackson. 

CHOCOLATE. Four rounding tab'espoons of grated and 
sifted chocolate, 6 tablespoons of hot water, stir over the fire till it 
bubbles and add ^ cup ot boiling milk; let boil 3 or 4 minutes, 
stirring constantly; serve with a tablespoon of sweetened whipped 
cream. This makes i cup. Mrs. Idah M. Strobridge. 



WHOLESALE AN& RETAIL DEALER IN 



Staple - arid Faqcy - Groceries, 

Green and Dried Fruits, Vegetable, Etc. 

Hardware, Crockery, Glassware. Tobacci anl C'.gars, Choice Wises and Liquors 

COMMERCIAL ROW, RENO, NEW. 



[No. 2478.] 

9to/ tie wal 



RKNO, NKVADA 



CAPITAL PAID IN, 
SURPLUS FUND, 



$200,000. 
$100,000. 



f\ (Je^eral Bapl^ir^ Business Jrapsaeted, 

INTEREST PAID ON TIME DEPOSITS AT THE RATE OF 4 PER CT. PER ANNUM. 



We Sell Drafts on 

SAN FRANCISCO, CAL. 

SACRAMENTO, CAL. 

NEW YORK CITY, N. Y. 

CHICAGO, ILL. 
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH. 
CARSON, NEVADA. 

VIRGINIA, NEVADA. 

WINNEMUCCA, NEV. 



Drafts on San Francisco, Cal., are 

negotiable in any city or town 

on the Pacific Coast. 

Drafts on New York or Chicago 
are negotiable in any East- 
ern City. 



OFFICERS: 

D. A. BENDER, PRESIDENT. 

GEO. W. MAPES, VICE PRESIDENT. 
C. T. BENDER, CASHIER. 
GEO. H. TAYLOR, ASST. CASHIER. 



We Sell Bills of Exchange on 

LONDON, ENG., 

Payable in Pounds, Sterling. 
DUBLIN, IRELAND, 

Payable in Pounds, Sterling. 

PARIS, FRANCE, 

Payable in Francs. 
GENEVA, SWITZERLAND, 

Payable in Francs. 
GENOA, ITALY, 

Payable in Lire. 
BERLIN, GERMANY, 

Payable in Marks. 
STOCKHOLM, SWEDEN. 

Payable in Kronors. 
COPENHAGEN, DENMARK, 

Payable in Kronors. 
VIENNA, AUSTRIA, 

Payable in Florins. 
ST. PETERSBURG, RUSSIA, 

Payable in Roubles. 



In addition to the above places, we issue 
Drafts or Bank Money Orders, payable in 
any city in Europe. 



DIRECTORS; 

D. A. BENDER, GEO. W. MAPES, 

W. O. H. MARTIN, A. H. MANNING, 
C. T. BENDER, C. E. PAXTON, 

FRANK M. LEE. 



We offer to Depositors every facility which their balances, business and 
responsibility warrant. 



32 




* ]j)alasg * <jj}al{6py 9 

JOHN PETERSON, PROPRIETOR. 




MANUFACTURER OF PURE 



Deafer in Fresh Fruits, Nuts, 

TOYS, NOTIONS, ETC. 

Fine Ice Cream Parlors. 

Soda Water in Season. 

Fresh Bread, Cakes and Pies Daily. 

Virginia. Street, - Reno, Nevada. 

Miscellaneous Recipes. 

CREAM MACARONI. Cook the macaroni 10 minutes in boil- 
ing salted water; drain this oft and add a cup of milk, stew until 
tender; in another sauce-pan heat a cup of milk until boiling, 
thicken with a teaspoon of flour, wet with cold milk, stir in a table- 
spoon of butter, 3 tablespoons grated cheese, a pinch of Cayenne, 
and lastly a beaten egg; drain all the milk from the macaroni, turn 
into a hot dish, pour the cream over and serve at once. C. If. T. 



MISS E. o. OIBBS, 



^IFancy Goods in Season. ErEEr* 

MAIL ORDERS PROMPTLY FILLED. 

N9 15 VIRGINIA ST. RENO, NEVADA. 



33- 



JOHN SUNDERLAND, 



MANUFACTURER OF AND DEALER IN 




D GENTLEMEN'S UN DER WEAR.E&*. 

Socks, Handkerchiefs, Neckwear, Gloves, Hats and Caps, 
Blankets and Comforters. 



MANUFACTURER OF AND DEALER IN 



BOOJS 



GENTLEMEN'S, LADIES', 
MISSES' AND CHILDREN'S 

OF EVERY GRADE AND DESCRIPTION. 

86r*Country Orders will Receive Prompt Attention. 

Miscellaneous Recipes. 

MOCK TOMALES. One and one-half cups of cornmeal 
scalded with 2 cups of boiling water; when cool add ^ cup wheat 
flour, }4 teaspoon salt, ^ teaspoon Cayenne pepper and *4 cup 
sweet lard; mix well and 'spread a tablespoon in the center of 
the inside of 24 well-washed corn husks; on 8 of these husks with 
the paste put an olive each and a tablespoon of the following meat 
tilling' : i cup raw, chopped, lean pork, i cup boiling water 
tablespoons finely minced onion, i tablespoon caramel, }4 teaspoon 
salt, ^ teaspoon Cayenne; stew till done and dry before 
putting it into the husks, roll up the husks contain- 
ing the meat; wrap 2 containing the paste only around 
that, and tie the ends together with strings made 
from husks; trim off the ends of strings and wrappers, wrap each 
tomale in a piece of cloth tied on to keep the paste from oozing 
out while still soft; boil in plenty of water an hour. 

GRAHAM CRACKERS. Five cups graham flour, i cup butter, ICt*Ji *u+a^* 
i cup cold water, i teaspoon soda dissolved in hot water; mix and V v 
roll as thin as possible, cut out and bake the same as cookies. - 
Mrs. R. Brown. 



34 

CELERY FILLING FOR SANDWICHES. Chop desired quantity 
ot celery fine, mix with Mayonnaise dressing- highly seasoned with 
lemon and mustard, spread between thinly sliced bread. The 
least bit of minced onion is an improvement. Water cress or crisp 
lettuce may be used instead of celery M. E. G. 

MAC \RONI WITH MEA;. Put 3 pounds lean beef on to 
cook in 2 quarts of water; boil gently till the meat is very tender; 
peel and slice 2 onions, fry brown in butter, add I can tomatoes or 
equivalent of fresh tomatoes, season with salt, i tablespoon Wor- 
cestershire sauce, curry powder and pepper, chop the meat fine 
and stir in with this sauce; let all simmer a lew minutes; boil the 
macaroni tender in the beef broth, and then alternate with the 
meat dressing and a little grated cheese in baking dish; bake ^ 
hour and keep moist with broth. Mrs. D. McNicol. 

CHEESE SOUFEE. One scant quart milk, ^ teaspoon salt. 
4 eggs beaten separately very light and i cup orated cheese; mix 
together and bake in quick oven; serve soon as done with hot 
browned crackers. W. D. C. 



E. C. SESSIONS & CO., 

-^VIRGINIA STREET,!-^- 

Three Doors South Eirst \'at. Rank, - RENO, Nl'A'ADA. 



-DEALERS IN 



FINE AND 

ALL GRADES OF 




AND UPHOLSTERED GOODS.. 



-=. 2 ^ Orders from Outside Points Solicited. 

Goods Carefully Packed for Shipping and Delivered on Board of Car. 



RBNO, NKVAUA 



M. D. FOLEY President. 

GEORGE RUSSELL Vice President. 

R. S OSBURN .Cashier. 

DIRECTORS: 

DANIEL MEYER, of San Francisco; GEORGE RUSSELL, of Elko; M I). 

FOLEY, A. G. FLETCHER, J. N. EVANS, C C. POWNING 

and L. ABRAHAMS, of Reno. 



"TTHE BANK OF NEVADA, Reno, with a capital ol $300,000, and liberal credit with 
Banks and Bankers, is better able than ever to transact a General Banking Busi 
ness, and to accommodate the Agricultural, Stock-raising and Business Interests of all 
customers, and the patronage of the people is respectfully solicited. 

Interest Paid on Time Deposits at the Hate of 4 per ct. per annum 

No charge for exchange on Pacific Coast business wi 1 be 
made to patrons 



The Bank will Buy and Sell Exchange on 

SAN FRANGISGO, NEW YORK, LONDOh, 

And All the Principal Cities in the United States, Canada, Europe, 
China and Japan . 

Special Rates will be given for France, Germany, Italy and 
Switzerland. 



Stoek;s apd Bopds Bout ar?d Sold 



ON COMMISSION. 

The Rank is also agent for the leading American and European Fire 
Insurance Companies. 

SAFETY DEPOSIT BOXES FOR RENT, 

PRICES FROM $3 TO $12 PER ANNUM. 



-36- 
FOR 

KINE KOOTWKAK 

GO TO 



VIRQINIA STRKKT. 



Miscellaneous Recipes. 

MINCE MEAT. Three pounds lean raw beef, chopped and 
salted, 3 pounds beef suet, removing the skin and 'string; 6 rounds 
apples pared and cored before weighing, i pound citron peel; chop 
all very fine and add 3 pounds currants, 6 pounds raisins, chopped 
and seeded, juice and rind of 6 oranges, juice and rind of 6 
lemons, 2 tablespoons ground cinnamon, 1^2 tablespoons cloves, i 
teaspoon mace, 2 teaspoons nutmeg and 2 pounds brown sugar; 
cook slowly i hour and add i quart Madeira wine and i pint 
brandy; pack in stone jar and cover tightly. Mrs. M. E. Ware. 



W. P. McLAUGHLIN, 



DEALER IN 



Staple ai)d pa^ey (Jroeeries, 

FRUITS, VEGETABLES, CANDIES, NUTS, ETC. 

Hardware, Glassware, Crockery, Wood and Willow Ware. 

Schilling's Fine Teas and Coffees a Specialty, Durkee's Pure Spices. Schilling's Pion- 
eer Baking Powder, best in the world. 

ANY PRICE bIST DaPL2ieA*TED, FREIGHT ADDED. 

MAIL ORDERS PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO 

Thompson's Block, Virginia St, RENO, NEVADA. 



3WEEKLYE 




OK RENO, NEVADA, 



ARE THE FRIENDS OF THE PEOPLE! 



THEY CONTAIN THE FULL AS- 



SOCIATED PRESS AFTERNOON REPORT, BE- 



SIDES ALL THE STATE AND NORTHERN CAL- 
IFORNIA LOCAL HAPPENINGS 



EDITORIALLY, THEY ARE FKAR- 
LESS AND OUTSPOKEN ON QUESTIONS OF 
PUBLIC INTEREST. 



DAILY: 

Per Year, in Advance. 



WEEKLY: 

$2 Per Year, in Advance 



-38- 

NTISS A. MOTLEY, 




AND HUMAN HAIR GOODS. 
RKNO, NEVADA. 

Q. W. LARCOMBE. E. B. COFFIN. 

C0PFIN & LARGOMBE, 

Sealers iavSCroceries,!? ru.it, Vegetables, JL,tc 

*>ISORTH SIDE R. R TRACK.HS* 
SIERRA STREET, RENO, NEVADA. 

Miscellaneous Recipes. 

OMELETTE SOUFFLE. Whip separately the yolks and whites 
;)1 3 e R s until stiff; beat into the yolks a tablespoon each of milk 
and powdered sugar, and add the whites, stirring them lightly in; 
turn the mixture into a hot pan. greased with sweet oil and as soon 
as the edges are set, gently turn them up with a knife; when the 
center begins to stiffen draw the p in to a cooler place and add a 
tablespoon of jelly; now hold the pan aslant, turn ^ of the 
omelette over upon the other and slide upon a hot platter, sprinkle 
quickly with 4 tablespoons hot rum. set on fire and serve at 
once. E. W. H. 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE. One-half ounce gelatine, i gill milk, 
Y-Z pint thick cream, i ounce sugar. ^ teaspoon vanilla; soak 
gelatine in milk Y<z hour, then dissolve over fire; beat cream gently 
until thick (if beaten furiously it may grow thin or go to butter), 
add sugar and flavoring and strain in gelatine; butter bottom of 
mould, put jelly in center and smaller pieces around, line sides with 
sponge cake with edges dipped lightly in white of egg and pour in 
hot mixture; set in cool place. A. L. M. 



39 



PINNI6ER 



THE PIONEER* 




(Established in Reno Nearly Twenty Years.) 

COR. VIRGINIA STREET AND COMMERCIAL ROW, 
RKNO, NEVADA. 

Desires to caution the patrons of "Riverside Recipes" against using the 
common culinary articles with which the market is flooded, and from 
which frequent ill health and daily disappointment result. 

He Offers, at Prices as Low as the Common Article, 
Guaranteed Pure Goods, 

COMPRISING : 

FLAVORING EXTRACTS, 

In any quantity. 

PURE HOME-MADE BAKING POWDER, 

At 45 cents per pound, in bulk. 
(This article has been exclusively used by his own family for years past.) 

PURE OREAM OF TARTAR AND BAKING SODA, 

At lowest Market prices. 



prescriptions apd pamily Recipes 

Prepared by Competent Pharmacists at lowest prices and at all hours. 



K. H 

Livery and feed 3table$>- 



NEVADA.-^- 

First-class Turnouts and Finest Saddle Horses. Careful Attention Gi\ -n 
to Transient Stock. Boarders Carefully Looked Alter. 

Miscellaneous Recipes. 

SARDINE SANDWICHES. Drain off the oil from i box bom-- 
less sardines, remove the skin and then rub fine with a fork, add 
the oil and juice of one lemon to this and season with i teaspoon 
Worcestershire sauce, ^ teaspoon black pepper and i teaspoon 
mustard; spread between thinly sliced bread slightly buttered, irom 
which the crust has been neatly trimmed. Cold boiled salmon 
may be used in the same way. M. K. G. 



J. B, McCULLOUGH, 



- -^COMMERCIAL ROW, RENO, NEV.-^- - * 

Prescriptions Carefully Prepared from Purest Drugs 



LARGK ASSORTMENT <>!' 



ilet ^rbiGies, picbur/e fAouldinq. Pcunbs. ils apd Glass, 



rgest Variety of Wall Paper in the State. Agent for White Sewing Machini 



41 








Riuergide; 



teJ, 



RENO, NEVADA. 





42 




HIJACK GODFREY, Proprietor.BS- 

IN PALACE HOTEL. REN0, NEV 



OCOPKN DAY AND 



Meals Served at All Hours. 



Cooking of Silver Trout a Special Feature. 



Miscellaneous Recipes. 

CHEESE STICKS. Three tablespoons flour, 3 tablespoons 
cheese, i tablespoon butter, i. tablespoon milk, J4 saltspoon salt, 
% saltspoon pepper, y& saltspoon nutmeg, i egg (yolk only); mix 
the dry ingredients, and add the milk, the egg and the butter 
soitened; mix all well with a spoon, and when the dough is 
smooth, divide it into parts; roll these very thin, cut them in 
narrow stripes 3 inches long, and bake in a slow oven fifteen 
minutes. Mrs. A. H. Manning. 

WINE JELLY. Soak ^ a box of gelatine 2 hours in a 
coffee cup of cold water; in a little more than 2 coffee cups of 
water boil 3 or 4 inches of stick cinnamon broken in bits, and the 
outside of y 2 lemon thinly shaved; when this has cooked 5 
minutes, pour it over the soaked gelatine and add a little less than 
a coffee cup of sherry, a cup of sugar and the juice of a lemon; 
strain into a mould wet with cold water and set on ice to cool. 
M. B. C. 



43 



RIVERSIDE 

MILL 
COMPANY. 




Id 




NEVADA 



RKNO, NBVADA. 



-44- 

C GUIDING, President and M .nager. WM. HENRY, Secretary. 

G. H. TAYLOR, Vice-President. FIRST NAT. BANK, Treasurer. 



MILL <#> LUMBER CO., 

MANUFACTURE <S OF AND DEALERS IN 

BUILDING MATERIAL, 



LUMBER, DOORS, WINDOWS, MOULDINGS, LATH, 

PACKING BOXES, BEE HIVES AND FIXTURES. 

iBdfders' ^@rdoj<are;,.P(3mts, (Sifs, dJaff Paper, it 

Housekeepers' Alphabet. 

Apply ammonia for orange or lemon juice stains. 

Burns, apply alum water or soda. 

Cut warm bread or cake with a hot knife. 

Disinfect a sick room with burning coffee. 

Equal parts sweet oil, vinegar and spirits of turpentine, make 
an excellent furniture polish. 

Felon, apply rennet soaked in milk, renew until relief is found. 

Grease spots, removed from a caipet. by using chloroform, or 
ammonia and water. 

Hot sunshine will remove scorch. 

Ink spots removed from carpets, by rubbing with milk and 
water, from white goods by soaking in milk or applying lemon 
juice. 

Jars, to sweeten, use hot water and baking soda. 

Kerosene applied to unused stoves will prevent them rusting. 

Lamp-burners, clean by boiling in strong soda water or ashes, 
then rub with sapolio. 

Mildew, soap the spots, covering while wet with whiting, lay 
out in the sun, repeat if necessary. 



45 

New iron should be heated gradually, to prevent cracking. 

Orange and lemon peel, should be dried, pounded and kept 
in bottles. 

Pour boiling water upon fruit stains, in linen or cotton, con 
tinue until spots disappear. 

Quince seed will make a good curling fluid. 

Rub men's soiled coats with equal parts ether, ammonia and 
alcohol. 

Soap is injurious to oil cloth, best cleaned with milk and water. 

Tinware may be cleaned and brightened by scouring with 
common soda. 

Use cream and ink, for defaced kid boots. 

Variety is the culinary spice. 

Wheel-grease, wash with cold water and soap. 

Xantippe was a scold, don't imitate her. 

You should never polish windows while the sun shines on 
them. 

Zinc can be cleaned with kerosene. 



F. C. SAVAGE. B. J. GENESY 

GENESY & SAVAGE, 

jjlurribirig, Tiaaiag aad Jjipe Titling. 

Sheet Iron Work Made and Repaired. 

ORDERS PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO. PRICKS REASONABLE. 

Clough & Crosby Building, Second St., Reno, Nevada. 

T. P. BRADSHAW, 

^Notary Public, Real Estate and Insurance Agents 

No. 19 Virginia Street, Reno, Nevada. 

City and Country Property For Sale. 

Residence and Business Property To Let. 

Money to Loan on Real Estate at the Lowest Rates. 
Correspondence Solicited. 



- 4 6- 

Syluap Joilet preparations. 

Dainty. Elegant. Harmless. 

ALSO FRENCH TOILET ARTICLES. 

Sendstampfo^Descriptive MISS K. BARNKS, 

Golden Eagle Hotel, Reno, Nev. 

HIS MOTHER'S COOKING. 

He sat at the dinner table there, 

With a discontented frown ; 
The potatoes and steak were underdone, 

And the bread was baked too brown. 
The pie too sour, the pudding too sweet, 

And the roast was much too fat; 
The soup so gresy, too, and salt, 

'Twas hardly fit for the cat. 

' 'I wish you could eat the bread and pies 

I've seen my mother make; 
They are something like, and 'twould do you good 

Just to look at a loaf of her cake." 
Said the smiling wife, "I'll improve with age; 

Just now I'm but a beginner; 
But your mother has come to visit us, 

And to-day she cooked the dinner. ' ' 

Lizzie M. Hadley. 



GEORGE GRAUES, PROPRIETOR. 

VIRGINIA STREET, - - RENO, NEVADA. 



Particular Attention Paid to Boarders. 



\ 



