j§^iD#iDi5HE5 




'-res 



ur!es,S>ala.d 



ishes 



Herman Sen 






\- i 



l\^^ 



V 1 



\ 



H^l'y^\^\l 



QJ 






'K\.< 




'■t 






Boston Public Library 

This book is to be returned to the 
Library on or before the date last stamped 
below. 



JAN ''''^ i^' 


;2 






































* 


























































' 





FORM NO 609: 10. 2. 51. lOOM. 



Si&c Bi6be6 
fox Mvca\\U5t, Xuncbeon, H)inncVt d Supper. 



j^ECHERCHE 

Side Qisbes 



FOR 



BREAKFAST, LUNCHEON, DINNER, AND SUPPER 



COMPRISING 



♦ ♦♦♦♦♦♦<5^^^^^^^^ 



i4,^ « 4,^ ^l^ 4^ 

[-Tt M Ty- 7m if' 



<^<^<^<^<^<^<^<^<^<^<^<^<^<^<^ 



}iops d'CEuVPes, 

SavouPies, Salads, 6t 

Oriental Dishes. 



Gj^ApLiES )^EpMy\N SZHfi 

Inspecting and Consulting Chef de Cuisine, National Training 

School of Cookery, London 

Author of 

''Practical Gastronomy" ^'Recherche Dinner Recipes" 

'■' Mentis and tlieir Compilation," *' Practical Household Recipes'' etc. 



John Haddon & Co. 

BOUVERIE HOUSE, SALISBURY SQUARE, E.G. 
1894 






\) 



V 



0-. Liftt 21 



PREFACE. 



THE present volume laj^s no claim to being a 
complete Cookery Book ; it is more a com- 
panion to my work recently published under 
the title of " Practical Gastronomy/' which, I 
am pleased to state, has been very favourabl}' 
received. 

The work is divided into five principal parts, 
treating upon Hors d'CEuvres, Sandwiches, 
Savoury Dishes, Salads, and Oriental Dishes, 
which as side or second course dishes have 
certain connections one with the other. 

Something new in the w^ay of a side dish is at 
all times a welcome acquisition to a luncheon, 
dinner, or supper. Savouries are not alwaj^s 
partaken of by all ; yet they should form an 
indispensable course at a dinner. According to 
regulation a savoury should be served after the 
sweet dishes ; this rule, however, is more re- 
stricted to savoury dishes of cheese or eggs, 
whilst other savoury dishes are invariabl}^ served 
before the sweets. For a dinner party hors 



rREFACE, 



d'oeuvres and savoury dislies should alwaj^s be 
prepared and dished up, so as to admit of their 
being handed round in small portions, so that 
each guest can assist himself without any trouble, 
whilst for a family dinner that, of course, is of 
little consideration. 

This work contains many new and original 
recipes, j^et I do not for one moment pretend 
that all the recipes given are original, being 
well aware that, as far as the art of cookery is 
concerned, there is bub very little that can be 
claimed original ; but I do claim that all the 
recipes herein given are thoroughly " reliahle " 
and " ivorMhIe,'' and that the various cooks who 
read them, and will put them into practice, will 
be able to prepare the dishes successfully and 
without difficulty. I therefore hope the following 
500 and odd recipes will be found useful and 
valuable, for they will tend to provide a long-felt 
want in supplying a variety of inexpensive, 
appetizing, nutritious, and tempting dishes. 

LONPOX, 

April, 1893. 



^5,^^ 



CONTENTS. 



Side Dishes — Hors d'ceuvres 

Saxd^iches 

Savoury Dishes of Fish 

Savoury Meat Dishes 

Savoury Dishes op Vegetables, 

Savoury Dishes of Eggs . 

Farinaceous and Cheese Savouries, etc. 

Salads and Sauces 

Sour Fruit Salads 

Oriental Dishes . 

Miscellaneous Eecipes and Sauces 

Index . 



PACtK 

1 



30 

44 

65 

78 

110 

134 

146 

177 

180 

193 

203 



Si^c Si6lx^0 for 3)i]incr6, Suppers, 
anb Xujbt IRcpastin 

HORS-D'CEUVEES. 



AKCHOVIES. 

Les Auchois. 



Anchovies are now considered a most agreeable 
appetizer at the breakfast, Inncheon, and dinner- 
table. They are a Mediterranean fish, mostly 
preserved in salt brine, and are greatly appre- 
ciated on account of their delicious and relishing 
flavour. They should be soaked in cold water 
before use ; and require washing and wiping 
gently with a cloth. To remove the fillets from 
the bones split them down the back, which is 
done with the forefingers and thumbs of both 
hands. 

ANCHOVY SALAD WITH ONIONS. 

Salacle d'Anchois mix Oignons. 

Wash some anchovies, steep them in vinegar, 
drain them on a cloth ; bone the anchovies, cut 
the fillets into small strips, dish them up in lat- 

s. D. ^ n 



SIDE DISHES. —HORS- /)' (TT UVRES. 



tice-work fashion on small glass dishes ; garnish 
with groups of hard-boiled white of egg, yolk of 
egg, chopped parsley, chopped button onions, 
French capers, and chopped j^ickled beetroot. 
Pour a little sweet oil over the whole, and serve. 



ANCHOVY CANAPEES. 

Ancliois sur Canaph. 

Have some slices of white bread half an inch 
thick, cut them in fingers, fr}^ them in clarified 
butter until light brown, then drain them on 
a cloth. Spread them with a laj^er of anchov^^ 
butter, and lay a small fillet of Gorgona anchovy 
over each. Dish ujJ on a glass dish, and garnish 
with finely chopped parsley, yolk and white of 
hard-boiled eggs. Instead of frying the bread, 
simple toasted bread can be used for the fingers. 

ANCHOVY CANAPEES, PRINCESSE STYLE. 

Canapes aux Ancliois a la Princesse. 

Cut some fillets of anchovies into small strips, 
chop finely some hard-boiled eggs, also some 
chervil, tarragon, and chives. Cut some slices of 
bread, about quarter of an inch thick, stamp them 
out with a tin cutter in round shapes ; fr}^ these 
in clarified butter of a light colour. Place the 
chopped eggs and fine herbs into a basin, mix it 
together with a small quantity of tartare sauce, 
lemon juice, pepper and salt. Spread the crou- 
tons with the mixture, and place the fillets of 
anchovies over them in a lattice-work fashion ; 
garnish with parsley, and dish up the canapees 
on a folded napkin. 



AN C HO IS A LA NORWEGIENNE. 



ANCHOVY SALAD. 

Anchois en Salade. 

Wash some anchovies in water, take off the 
skins, remove heads, tails, fins, and bones. Cut 
them into thin strips, put them on a dish, with 
some lettnces cut small, small radishes, chopped 
parsle}^, capers, and thin slices of lemon, all nicelj^ 
arranged. Mix some lemon juice with a little 
salad oil, pour over, and serve. This dish can 
be garnished with chopped whites and yolks of 
hard-boiled eggs and turned olives, according to 
fancy. 

ANCHOVIES AND CRAYFISH TAILS IN 
SHELLS. 

Anchois of Queues crllcren'sxes en Capisantis. 

Wash some small Gorgona anchovies, and pre- 
pare them as above ; pick out some even-sized 
crayfish tails, and place a fillet of anchovy round 
each tail ; put them in small shells, and garnish 
with parsley and stuffed olives. 

ANCHOIS A LA NORWEGIENNE. 

Prepare some fillets of Norwegian anchovies, 
trim neatl5\ have read}" three hard-boiled eggs, 
chop up two coarsely, 3"olk and white separate, 
dish up in hors-d'oeuvres dishes (little glass dishes), 
season with a little chopped tarragon, chervil, 
and red pepper. Sprinkle with a little oil and 
vinegar. Place the anchovy fillets over the top 
in the shape of lattice-work, ornament with fanci- 
ful cut slices of lemon, quarters of hard-boiled 
egg, and parsley. 



4 SIDE DISHES.— HORS-D' CEUVRES, 

CANAPEES TURBIGO FASHION. 

Canapds a la Tiirhigo. 

Pick out some small cra3'fisli tails, or prawns, 
if the former cannot be procured, a few small 
truffles, a small head of white celery, and a small 
quantit}^ of mixed pickles. Cut all these into 
small, neat discs, season with remoulade sauce, 
containing some reduced tomato juice, sufficient 
to colour the sauce. Procure a number of small 
rolls (farthing rolls), cut these into halves, take 
out the crumb, and fill the crusts with the above. 
Cover over each surface a thin, round piece of 
clear aspic jelly. Garnish with capers and pars- 
ley, and dish them up on a folded napkin or 
fanciful cut paper. 

CANAPEES OF LOBSTER, QUEEN'S STYLE. 

Canapes de Ilomard a la Heine. 

Procure some small rolls, as mentioned in the 
foregoing recipe, cut them in halves, scoop out 
the crumb, and fill them with the following pre- 
paration. Cut into small, neat discs some lobster 
meat, one or two hard-boiled eggs (according to 
the qtiantity of canapees required), a few lettuce 
leaves, some gherkins, the fillets of a few an- 
chovies. When all are neatly cut, mix with some 
salad oil and vinegar, pepper and salt, and finel}^ 
chopped parsle3^ Now proceed to fill in the 
crusts of the rolls. Mask their sin^face over with a 
stiff mayonnaise sauce, garnish with lobster coral 
and pickled beetroot, the latter being cut into 
small thin strips. Dish up on a folded napkin. 



LOBSTER DARIOLES WITH TOMATOES. 



LOBSTER CANAPEES. 

Homard sur Canapes. 

Cut some slices of bread, a quarter of an inch 
thick, stamp out with a fancy round cutter, two 
inches in diameter, and fry them in clarified 
butter. Spread the rounds with lobster butter, 
place a nice piece of lobster meat in the centre 
of each, and garnish with a row of capers round 
the lobster. Before serving, sprinkle over with a 
little salt and cayenne pepper. 

LOBSTER A LA CAREME. 

Homard a la Careme. 

Take a few small plain dariole moulds, line 
them with lobster forcemeat ; place in the centre 
of each a small quantity of salpicon of praAvns, 
truffles, and artichoke bottoms, all cut into discs 
and mixed with tartare sauce. Fill up the 
moulds with forcemeat, and poach, and set on 
the ice to cool. Dish up in a circular row, sauce 
over with tartare sauce, and serve. 



LOBSTER DARIOLES WITH TOMATOES. 

Darlolcs dc Homard a la Tomate. 

Prepare salpicon, with lobster meat cut into 
dice, and white fish forceineat ; season with cay- 
enne pepper and salt, add a little aspic jelly, 
and mix well together. Select some even-sized, 
small, round tomatoes, cut out the centre gently 
with a tin cutter about the size of a shilling 
piece ; plunge the tomatoes, one after the other, 
into boiling water to take off their skin, which 



SIDE DISHES. —IIORS- D' Qi U VKES. 



niiist be clone very carefully, so as not to deform 
the fruit. Put the skinned tomatoes on a cloth 
to drain, plac« them separately into small dariole 
moulds, fill in the lobster salpicon, and steam 
them with a little water in a covered stewpan 
slowly, for about thirt}^ minutes, turn them on 
a cloth to drain, glaze them when quite cold with 
stiff tomato sauce, to which some strong meat 
glaze and a little aspic jelly has been added. 
Now dish them up in a circular row, placing in 
the centre, in a heap, a salad of macedoine of vege- 
tables seasoned with stiff tartare sauce ; sprinkle 
some lobster coral on top, garnish with parsley, 
and serve. 



BALLOTINE OF LOBSTER, REFORM STYLE. 

Ballotlne de llomard a la Iicfonne. 

Cut the best parts of lobster meat into thin 
slices, mask some small plain oval moulds with 
bright aspic jelly, cover the bottoms and sides 
of the moulds with the nicest slices of lobster, 
dip them in warmed aspic jelly so that they set 
firmly, place them on the ice for a little while, 
mask the interior with whipped aspic jell}'. Cut 
up the remainder of the lobster meat coarsel}^, 
mix with stiff mayonnaise sauce and aspic jelly, 
season with salt and cayenne pepper, fill up the 
moulfls with this, and let them set firmly. Dish 
the ballotines on a folded napkin, garnish with 
parsley, and serve. Salmon, prawns, or cra^^fish 
may be done in the same style. Some chopped 
gherkins can be added to the mayonnaise sauce 
used for seasoning. 



CKA YFISH. 



CRAYFISH CROUTES, RAVIGOTTE STYLE 

CroiUes cV llcrevlsses d la Bavigotle. 

Ingeedtexts. — Bread for croutes, 12 cravfisli 
tails, half a gill tartare sauce, some tarragon leaves, 
chervil, and a few blanched spinach leaves, but- 
ter for fr^dng, caj^enne pepper and lobster coral. 

Cut some pieces of bread, round or square, half 
an inch thick and an inch and a half wide, hollow 
out the centre a little, fr}^ them in clarified butter, 
drain on a cloth, chop the crayfish tails or some 
prawns finely, season with a little tartare sauce. 
Put a little mustard and cress at the bottom of 
each croute, dress some of the prawn or craj^fish 
parts in a pyramidal form on top ; pound a few 
chervil, tarragon, and spinach leaves, previously 
blanched, pass through a fine sieve, and mix with 
some tartare sauce. Mask the croutes gently, 
sprinkle with lobster coral and cayenne. Dish 
up, garnish with small cress, and serve. 

CRAYFISH. 

ilcrevisses. 

Crayfish are similar to lobsters, only much 
smaller. The fiesli is most delicate. They are 
extremely useful for side dishes, as well as for 
cold and hot entrees. There are several kinds. 
The best are quite red under the claws. Prawns 
are used in their place when the former cannot 
be obtained. They are boiled in water, with 
plenty of salt in it, for about ten minutes. 

To serve them in the shells, cut the ends of 
lemons so as to make them stand, stick the horns 
of crayfish or prawns into the lemons in circular 
rows, commcncmg at the bottom of a lemon. Fill 



SIDE DISHES.— HORS-D' (EUVKES. 



up the vacant spaces with fresh parsley, and 
arrange them neatly upon the dish in which they 
are served. 



CRAYFISH CANAPEES. 

Pdto, crjb^crevlsses sur Canapes. 

Cut and fry bread croutons the same as de- 
scribed for anchovy canapes. Spread a laj^er 
of potted crayfish paste over the fingers, dish up, 
and garnish with parsley. 

SMOKED COD'S ROE CANAPEES. 

Laitance cle Cab illaud fume sur Canapes. 

Prepare bread croutons as in the preceding 
recipe, spread thinly with fresh butter and a 
layer of potted cod's roe paste, dish up, and gar- 
nish with hard-boiled eggs and finely chopped 
parsley. 

CRAYFISH CROUTES, TARTARE STYLE. 

Lcs CroiUes cVLerevlssGs a la Cardinal. 

Procure six to eight small round dinner-rolls 
(usually called farthing rolls) ; cut these in equal 
halves, scoop out the crumb, and allow the 
crusts to dry. In the meantime prepare a mix- 
ture of eighteen large picked prawns, one large 
gherkin, six anchovy fillets, and the Avhite part 
of a hard-boiled e^g^ all of which are minced 
rather fine. Put these in a basin, and season with 
a ladleful of tartare sauce ; put a little mustard 
and cress at the bottom of each crust, and fill up 
with the preparation ; stamp out some thin slices 
of aspic jelly, cover the surface of each Avith a 



SNAILS WITH FINE HERB BUTTER. 



slice, fasten the heads of prawns in the centre 
of each with a httle lobster butter ; ornament the 
edges with lobster butter. Dish up on small 
round dishes, garnish with parsley, and serve. 

SNAILS AS HORS-D'CEUVRE. 

The edible snails are found in the south of 
France, Italy, and some parts of the south of 
England, where they have been introduced some 
hundred years ago from the Continent. They 
have thin shells of a whitish or pale grey colour, 
with four dark stripes. 

The snails are not ver}^ much thought of as 
3^et on this side of the Channel ; but it is to be 
hoped that the time will 3'et arrive when a basket 
of (h'essed snails will be considered as acceptable 
a present as a brace of game. 

Eating snails is said to be a remarkable good 
thing for consumption. The ancient Romans 
greatly esteemed snails as an article of food ; 
they kept special places for fattening them, and, 
it is said, fed them on meal, wine, and other 
dainties. Great care should be taken by those who 
consume snails, and by those who collect them, 
to let them lie for three or four days before they 
are cooked ; for snails which have had the oppor- 
tunity of feeding on poisonous grass are likeh^ to 
poison the consumers, which is, however, avoided 
if they are kept a few da^^s without food. 

SNAILS WITH FINE HERB BUTTER. 

Escargots aux fines Ilerbes. 

Let the snails boil for a quarter of an hour in 
water, then take them out of their shell, wash 



SIDE DISHES.— HORS- D CE UVRES. 



them several times, boil tliem up again, and drain 
them. Fry them in bntter with a few finely 
chopped shallots till light brown, add a little 
reduced piquante sauce, and refill them in the 
shells without any sauce. Cover the tops with 
parsley butter, containing a little lemon juice and 
some hneh^ chopped shallots. Serve on a folded 
napkin on a dish. 



OLIVES AS HORS-D'OEUVRES. 

Olives are considered next to caviare the most 
digestive morsel to be consumed before meals. 
The olive is most extensively consumed as an 
article of food in the south of France, where 
the word indigestion in itself has scarcely any 
meaning; in fact, "indigestion" is rarely ever 
heard of, which ought to be sufficient proof that 
olives are uncommonly wholesome, as tliey assist 
to spur the digestive organs whenever they are 
inclined to be out of order. 

The first acquaintance of this liov^ cVamtre is 
undoubtedly not an agreeable taste to some 
people, but the palate soon gets over the appa- 
rently disagreeable flavour, and in time will take 
to them with intense relish. 

Sweet or Spanish olives are esteemed the most 
palatable, as they are perfectly sweet, and free 
from any strong flavour. They are served as liors- 
d'oauvrei^^ and at times as dessert. On both oc- 
casions they are dished up in small glass dishes, 
with a little of their own liquor, and are eaten 
with the fingers : a fork should never be applied 
to them. 



OLIVES A VESPAGNOLE. 



APPETIZERS, MAXIMILIAN STYLE. 

AppHlssanta a la Maximilian. 

Stone some large Queen's olives, fill them with 
anchovy paste mixed with a little reduced to- 
mato juice and cayenne pepper to taste ; cut out 
some rounds of brown bread about the size of a 
four shilling piece, spread some of the prepared 
paste thickly over them. Place an olive in the 
centre of each crouton, have ready some neatly 
trimmed fillets of anchovies, and lay a fillet round 
each olive ; ornament with little sprigs of finely 
picked parsley, or coarsely chopped hard-boiled 
white of eggs. Dish up on a folded table napkin, 
and serve. 

SPANISH APPETIZERS. 

AppiHissan ts ('sjyagiwls. 

Procure some Spanish olives, peel them care- 
fully from the stones, or stamp out the stones 
with a small cutter; fill them with some anchovy 
paste. Dress, bone and fillet a few Gorgona an- 
chovies, twist a fillet round each stuffed olive. 
Dish them up on a glass dish, and place a sprig 
of fresh picked parsley on the top of each olive, 
pour a little best olive oil on the dish, and serve. 

OLIVES A L'ESPAGNOLE. 

Cut ten round slices of bread about an inch 
and a half in diameter and one-eighth of an inch 
thick, fry in butter, drain. Stone as many large 
Spanish olives with a sharp tube cutter ; fill with 
some firm tartare sauce ; place one in the centre 
of each crouton, curl an anchovy fillet round it ; 



SIDE DISHES.— HORS-D' (E UVRES. 



garnish with finely chopped hard-boiled ^^^^ 
lobster coral, and sprigs of jDarsle}^ Dish up on 
small hors-d'oeuvres dishes, and serve. 

TUNNY FISH. 
Tho)i marine. 

The tunny is a kind of fish which slightly re- 
sembles the cod ; it is preserved or marinated 
in oil. The flesh is very firm, has a delicate 
flavour, and looks very much like cooked veal ; it 
makes a highly esteemed hors-d'oeuvre, but is 
hardly ever served otherwise. To serve it, cut 
some thin slices, arrange them on oblong or 
round glass dishes in rows overlapping one 
another. Ornament the sides alternately with 
little heaps of chopped capers and chopped parsley. 
Pour a little sweet oil over the dish just before 
sending to table. 

TUNNY CANAPEES. 

Than viariiic sur canapes. 

Prepare some slices of crumb of bread, cut in 
fingers, and fry in clarified butter. When cold, 
butter them, and cover the i^ieces with thin slices 
of preserved tunny-fish, flavour with lemon juice 
and chopped tarragon and chervil. Dish up on 
little dishes, garnish with small salad, and serve. 

EGGS A LA MAXIMILIAN. 

Boil some eggs hard, shell and put into cold 
water. "When cold, cut off the broad tips of the 
eggs, scoop out carefully the hard yolk with a 
small teaspoon ; rub the yolk through a sieve into 



SAUCED FISH. 



a small basin, stir in oil, vinegar, pepper and salt, 
to make a smooth paste. When still', add a small 
quantity of concentrated tomato puree, a little 
cayenne pepper ; fill the centres of the eggs vrith 
this preparation, stand them on a dish with a 
napkin, garnish with parsley, and serve. 

CANAPEES OF SMOKED SALMON. 

Canapes de Saumon Fume. 

Cut and fry slices of bread as directed for an- 
chovy canapes, butter the pieces when cold, and 
cover them with thin slices of smoked salmon. 

SAUCED SALMON. 

Saumon marine. 

Place the piece of boiled salmon you wish to 
pickle into a deep dish ; boil enough vinegar to 
cover the fish, add two small bay leaves, foiu' 
cloves, six long peppercorns, ten juniper berries, 
a lump of sugar and a little salt. Poiu' the boil- 
ing vinegar over the fish, and serve when cold. 

SAUCED FISH. 
Poissons marines. 

Boiled fish of any kind left from a previous 
day's meal, can be sauced and come in as a Jior.^- 
cVoeuvre or breakfast dish. 

Place the neatest pieces of fish into a deep 
dish, boil up a little of the fish stock in which 
the fish has been boiled with an equal quantity 
of vinegar, a few leaves of green fennel, bay 
leaves, cloves, peppercorns, a slice or two of 
lemon, and salt. Poiu' this over the fish, turn 
them over gently from time to time, so that the 
seasoning thoroughly saturates the fish. 



14 SIDE DISHES.-HORS-D' CF.rVRES. 



GARFIELD BONNE-COUCHES. 

Prepare some slices of veiy thin crisp toast, 
stamp them out with a round cutter, about an 
inch and a half in diameter ; butter them, and 
place a layer of thin slices of roast fowl alter- 
nately with some very finely shred lettuce leaves 
over each. Ornament the tops with fillets of an- 
chovies, or appetit sild. in the form of lattice- 
work. Dish up on a folded napkin, garnish with 
parsle}^, and serve. 

Instead of buttering the toast, a thin layer of 
tartare or mayonnaise sauce may be used. 

SARDINE BONNE-BOUCHES A LA ROYALE. 

Clean and bone six sardines, and three Gorgona 
anchovies; pound them in a mortar with three to 
four hard-boiled 3^olks of eggs, pass through a 
wire sieve, add a little fresh butter, a handful of 
fresh bread crumbs, a small quantity of finely- 
chopped parsle3\ and season with white pepper 
and caj^enne. 

Line some deep tartlet moulds with puff 
paste trimmings, fill up the interior with the 
above ingredients, cut some strips of paste, and 
ornament the tops in the form of lattice-work ; 
brush over with a little beaten-up ^gg. and bake 
in a quick oven. When cooked and cokl, dish up 
on a napkin or dish paper, garnish with parsley, 
and serve. 

PETITS PANIERS A LA JARDINIERE. 

IxcREDiEXTR.— ^ lb. short paste, i pint mace- 
doine of vegetables, oil and vinegar. \ lemon. 1 



BETTER AVE A L'ORIENTALE. 



ladle fill of aspic jelly, 1 small tnifHe, pepper and 
salt. 

Method. — Line eight small patty pans with the 
paste, shape some twisted strips, and fasten each 
end crossways with some ^g^ y^ll^ tind flonr 
mixed to the sides of the pans to the paste ; fill 
np the interior of the patty pans with raw rice, 
bake in a quick oven for about ten minutes, turn 
out the rice and set them to cool. Have ready 
some cooked macedoine of vegetables, drain well 
on a cloth, season with a little oil, vinegar, pepper 
and salt, moisten with a tablespoonful of aspic, 
fill the baked crusts with the mixture, mask the 
surface of each with aspic. Ornament with fancy 
shapes of lemon rind and truffies ; garnish with 
sprigs of fresh parsle}^, dish up and serve, 

Remnants of truffles can be mixed with the 
macedoine. 

BETTERAVE A L'ORIENTALE. 

Ingeediexts. — 1 small beetroot, 1 hard-boiled 
^gg^ 12 anchovy fillets, 1 dessertspoonful capers, 
1 dessertspoonful gherkins, 2 chives, 1 dessert- 
spoonful anchovy paste, a little vinegar, brown 
bread for croutes. 

Method. — Cut the beetroot into slices about 
one-eighth of an inch thick, stamp out some small 
rounds with a fancy cutter, about one incli in 
diameter, put a layer of anchovy fillets on each. 
Prepare the following mixture : one dessertspoon- 
ful of capers, one gherkin, two chives, all chopped 
finely and mixed with a tablespoonful of anchovy 
paste, and a few drops of chilli vinegar ; spread 
over the rounds carefully. Cut the Qg^g in thin 



1 6 SIDE DISHES.— MORS- D'CF.UVRES. 



slices, put one on each of them, mix a httle 
cayenne with salt, and sprinkle over the surface. 
Dish np, and garnish with anchovy fillets and 
parsley. 

TRANCHES VIENNOISE A LA TOMATE. 

Ingredients. — Brown bread, 1^ oz. butter, 2 oz. 
white meat (chicken, or rabbit), 1 hard-boiled ^g^^ 
1 tablespoonful bechamel sauce, salt and pepper, 
tarragon and chervil, a few sprigs of each, \ lb. 
cooked ox -tongue, or ham, 1 large tomato, oil, vin- 
egar, and chopped parsley. 

Method, — Cut some small square slices of brown 
bread about one and a half inch square. Stamp 
out a neat shapes with a cutter. Pound the fol- 
lowing ingredients in a mortar. 2 oz. cooked 
white meat, 2 ^g^ yolks, 1 oz. butter, finely 
chopped tarragon and chervil and parslej^ ; mois- 
ten with a tablespoonful of bechamel sauce. 
Season to taste, and pass through a sieve. Butter 
the slices of bread slightly, spread over each with 
a thin layer of the paste ; cut some fancy slices of 
ham or tongue a trifle smaller than the bread, 
place one on each slice of bread. Have ready a 
tomato cut up rather small, season with oil, 
vinegar, parsley, salt and pepper ; put a small 
heap on the centre of each slice, put a tarragon 
leaf crossways on top. Work np the remainder 
of paste, put it in a paper cornet, and ornament 
sides of each slice with same, and dish up. 

Sufficient for half service, 4-6 persons. 

The hard-boiled whites of eggs can be chojjped 
finely and be used for garnishing the dish, if de- 
sired. 



CAVIARE. 



17 



CAVIARE. 

This peculiar and so highly appreciated deli- 
cacy consists of salted roes of various large fish, 
belonging to the sturgeon famil}^ The sturgeon, 
(Acqjeuser stercio), the hause {Acipemer huso). 
the sterlet and timny fish produce most of the 
caviare imported into this country. The finest 
quality caviare is obtained from the roe of the 
stiu'geon, which lives in the Black Sea and the 
river Volga, in Russia. This fish weighs from 5 
to 5 cwt. ; the so-called hause weigh as much as 
y cwt. each. The latter do not produce so good 
a quality of caviare as the sturgeon. The Astra- 
chan caviare is considered the best ; the grains of 
this caviare are larger than the ordinary kind, 
and when fresh, of a greenish colour. When pre- 
served, the colour turns almost black. Caviare is 
also largely imported from Germany and America. 
The German caviare has much smaller grains 
than the Russian caviare, and is not considered 
so good ; but it is nevertheless largely consumed, 
as the price is considerably less than the caviare 
imported from Russia. 

Caviare is a condiment, which, as Hamlet 
remarked, is " caviare to the general, but to the 
goiu'met, on buttered toast with a squeeze of 
lemon, it is a revelation." Caviare is usually 
eaten as a relish, and is considered one of the 
finest appetizing table delicacies. It is served 
either plain or on toast, with pepper and lemon 
juice, or with finely chopped shallots and parsley 
and lemon juice, or with vinegar and oil. 

Hygienic Caviare is recommended to the invalid 
and epicure, as well as the connoisseur of table 
delicacies. It can be eaten and appreciated by 

s. D. c 



SIDE DISHES. —HORS-D' iE UVRES. 



those whom experience warns to be careful as to 
their digestive powers, as well as those who are 
benefited by cod liver oil. The hygienic caviare 
recommends itself from the fact that it contains 
less superfluous salt and oil than the caviare 
of every-day commerce. The absence of exces- 
sive quantities of these constituents renders it 
not only more wholesome and agreeable, but is 
an article which comes within the reach of in- 
valids who would otherwise have to eschew a 
table delicacy which is dear to the heart— or 
should I say palate ? — of the connoisseur. The 
hygienic caviare has the same flavour as ordinary' 
caviare, but is heightened by being deprived of 
some of the oil which so largely enters into its 
composition. It can be obtained at all high-class 
grocers, provision dealers, etc. 

Hoic Caviare is Prepared. 

It is not usually known how this delicacy is 
prepared, although it is pronounced the " fa- 
vomite hors-d'oeuvre" on the Continent, and is 
consumed there as well as in England m large 
quantities. 

The roe of the sturgeon differs materially from 
that of other fish, in being of a large size and 
very thin skinned, containing a kind of oily 
jelly, which, so to say, melts away in the mouth, 
leaving little or no residuum, and being held to- 
gether by a network of cellular tissues, fat and 
muscle in large quantities, and about the size of 
a man's head. A net of very small mesh, spread 
over a very large frame, answers as a kind of 
coarse sieve ; the roes being lightly pressed and 
kneaded over this, the eggs are thus detached, 
and fall into wooden tubs placed below the frame 



SMALL CAVLARE SLLCES. 19 

and net; each grain is tlius more or less separated. 
To produce so-called "grain "' caviare, for export, 
the eggs are sprinkled with finely ground salt. 
A wooden fork with from eight to ten prongs is 
used to stir the salt into the caviare. In doing 
this the eggs become first doughy, but small 
afterwards, and finally give out a noise, which is 
taken as a proof that tlie process is completed, 
after which the caviare is packed closely into hard 
wood kegs, ready for transportation. 



SMALL CAVIARE SLICES, RBMOULADE 
STYLE. 

Petltes Tranches de Caviar a la Eemoulade. 

Cut twelve thin oblong slices of brown bread, 
pare them into heart shapes, about an inch and 
a half long. Butter the slices slightly. Mix 
two ounces of Russian caviare carefully with a 
squeeze of lemon, a teaspoonful of chopped 
shallots, and a pinch of ca3^enne pepper. Spread 
the slices rather thickly with the caviare, but 
do not use a knife for this purpose, as steel or 
metal injures the flavour of it. Have ready a 
tablespoonful of stiff mayonnaise, mix gently 
with one of cold bechamel sauce, one hard-boiled 
egg yolk passed previously through a fine wire 
sieve, chopped parsley, fennel leaves, tarragon 
leaves, and shallots, half a teaspoonful of each, 
also half a teaspoonful of prepared mustard, and 
one of concentrated tomato puree. Work all 
vigorously, fill in a paper cornet, and ornament 
the caviare slices to taste. Dish up on small 
round dishes, and stand in a cool place until 
required. 



20 SIDE DISHES.— HORS-D'QiUVKES. 

CANAPEES OF CAVIARE, REMOULADE 
STYLE. 

Canaph de Caviar a la liemoulade. 
Take some slices of the crumb of bread, about 



half an inch thick, stamp them out in ovals, fry 
these in clarified butter a light brown colour. 
When cool, place about a teasjDOonful of remoulade 
sauce (see page 202) on one side of each oval ; in 
the centre of each put a little caviare, sprinkle 
with chopped parsley and gherkins, and serve on 
a glass dish. 

CAVIARE DAINTIES, MOSCOW STYLE. 

Brissoleftes de Caviar a la Moscovite. 

Procure some very small farthing rolls, cut 
them into equal halves, scoop out the crumb, and 
place them in a cool oven to dry. Prepare a stiff 
mayonnaise, adding a little aspic jelly to stiffen 
same. Mask the inside of the rolls when quite 
cold, about an eighth of an inch thick. Place on 
each of them a small quantity of i\.strachan 
caviare, and cover over their surface with aspic 
jellj^ Ornament the tops with thin strips of 
fillets of Russian anchovies ; dish up and serve 
them on a folded napkin. 

CAVIARE SANDWICHES. 

Tarfiiies de Caviar. 

Procure a small pot of " li3'gienic caviare," 
put contents into a basin, add a finely chopped 
shallot, the juice of half a lemon, and a pinch of 
cayenne pepper, mix carefully with a wooden 
spoon or fork. Butter some thin slices of brown 



PETITES C ROUTES DE CAVIAR. 



or whole meal bread, spread these with the pre- 
pared caviare, placing two together like sand- 
wiches. Cut them into small fingers, or stamp 
out into half-moon shapes, dish up on a folded 
napkin or paper, garnish with small salad, and 
serve. 

CAVIARE DARIOLES. 

Darioles de Caviar. 

Cut a rasped roll into round slices about half 
an inch in thickness, toast them nicely on each 
side, split them open like a muffin, and butter 
the inside. Spread with some Astrachan or 
hygienic caviare flavoured with finely chopped 
shallots, a little lemon juice and cayenne. 
Press the slices of rounds of toast together, 
dish up and serve. This dish can be served 
hot or cold. 

PETITES CROUTES DE CAVIAR. 

IxGREDiEXTS. — Bread for croiites, 3 oz. Russian 
hygienic caviare, half a lemon, 1 teaspoonful of 
shallots, a pinch of cayenne, clarified butter for 
frying, parsley for garnishing. 

Method. — Cut out eight round pieces of bread, 
about an inch in diameter, and half an inch thick ; 
scoop out the centre sufficiently hollow to receive 
a dessertspoonful of caviare. Mix the caviare 
carefully with a teaspoonful of chopped shallots, 
a squeeze of lemon, and a pinch of caj'enne ; fry 
the croutes in hot butter a nice light colour, 
drain well on a cloth ; when cold, fill up with the 
prepared caviare. Dish up, garnish with sprigs 
of parsley and serve. Be careful never to touch 



SIDE DISHES. —HORS-D' CE UVRES. 



caviare with a knife or any metal spoon, as it 
injures the flavour. I recommend hygienic 
caviare, as it contains less salt and less oleagin- 
ous substance, which is so objectionable to the 
epicure as well as the invalid. 

OYSTERS. 

Lts Hultren. 

Oysters are considered wholesome and nourish- 
ing, especially for delicate and consumptive people. 
They are most delicious, and stand first on ever}' 
menu as an universally esteemed hors-d'oeuvre. 
The *' natives " are the best. The recognised 
season for oysters is from the beginning of August 
until the beginning of May, when they are most 
plentiful. 

Oysters are opened and served in their deep 
shells with their OAvn liquor. They are generall}" 
eaten with a fork. 

Slices of brown bread and butter, quarters of 
lemon and cayenne pepper should be served with 
oysters. 

OYSTER DARIOLES, CARLTON STYLE. 

Darioles cVHuitres a la Carlton. 
Heat^ up some sauce oysters, beard them and 
cut them up in dice ; shred some lettuce leaves, 
and mix all in a basin with mayonnaise sauce and 
aspic jelly to bind. Season with white pepper, 
salt, and chilli vinegar to taste ; fill into small 
dariole moulds, place them on the ice to get set, 
turn out on a folded napkin on a dish ; garnish 
with parsley, and serve. 

^ Oysters, when bein^ cooketl, should never boil, but maj- 
just come to boiling point. 



MINCED BEEF WITH SAVOURY JELLY. 23 

OYSTER MAYONNAISE. 

HuUres en Mayonnaise. 

Heat up twenty oysters in their own liquor, 
let stand for five minutes ; drain, beard and put 
them in cold water to cool; drain in a 'cloth, 
mix with some prepared mayonnaise sauce and 
serve neatly dressed on crisp salad-leaves. 

HAM-BOUCHEES, WITH CREAM. 

Boiichees de Jamhon a la Creme. 

Grate half n pound of lean ham, with this mix 
gently a quarter of a pint of whipped cream, 
season with white pepper and cayenne to taste ; 
fill some small puff-paste cases with the mixture, 
sprinkle a little chopped parsley over each, cover 
them, and serve on dish covered with a folded 
napkin or lace-paper. 

HAM CANAPEES. 

Jamhon siir Canapes. 

Cut and fry some slices of bread, as directed for 
anchovy canapes, cover the pieces with tliin slices 



of boiled ham, and dish the 



m up. 



TONGUE CANAPEES. 

Langue cJe Been/ sur Canapi'^s. 

Prepared as directed in the preceding dish, 
using boiled tongue instead of ham. 

MINCED BEEP WITH SAVOURY JELLY. 

Boenf hach(' a VAapic. 

Mince some cold beef with a small qriantity of 
red pickled cabbage, season this with salt, pepper, 



24 STDE DISHES.— HORS-D'CEUVRES;. 



oil and vinegar ; chop some hard-boiled white of 
^SS? ^^^ i^ ^o the mince, moisten with a small 
quantity of liquid aspic jelly. Fill some small 
dariole moulds with the mixture. When set, turn 
out on a dish in the form of a pyramid. Garnish 
round the dish with stuffed olives, rings of hard 
boiled eggs, and slices of aspic jelly, and serve. 

BEEF CANAPEES. 

Canap('fi <Je Boon/. 

Cut and fr}^ some rounds of bread, butter the 
rounds, and sprinkle with a little pepper and 
salt ; cover with thin slices of cold roast beef : 
pour a thin coating of good meat glaze over 
them. When cold, dish up, garnish with scraped 
horseradish and parsley, and serve. 

SMOKED HAMBURG BEEF. 

Bceuf fiim/'P a J a Ilamhourcjoi^e. 

Grate some lean Hamburg beef, and arrange it 
heaped up on a glass dish ; clean, wash and clrain 
small cress, and garnish round the dish. Lemon 
pickles sliced are almost invariably served in 
glass dishes with hung or Haml)urg beef. 

CRABS, DRESSED. 

Crahos ijariiies. 
Choose 3^our crabs of medium sizes and weights, 
pick all the meat out of the crabs, remove the 
gills and apron. Mix the meat with an equal 
quantity of salad oil and vinegar to taste, season 
with pepper and salt and a little mustard. When 
mixed, clean out the shells, fill them with the 
and garnish with fresh picked parsley 



GOOSE-LIVER DARIOLES. 25 

and with the small claws. Dish up on folded 
napkins, and serve. 

BONNES-BOUCHES A LA CARDINAL. 

Cut some slices of bread, about one quarter of 
an inch in thickness, stamp out some rounds an 
inch or less in diameter, fry these in clarified 
butter ; spread a little lobster paste over each, 
and place a stoned Spanish olive in the centre. 
Curl a fillet of anchovies round it ; fill the centre 
of the olives with lobster coral, and round the 
croutons garnish with hard-boiled white of Q^'g : 
dish up on a folded napkin, and serve. 

GOOSE-LIVER BONNES-BOUCHES. 

Bonnes-Bouches de Foie-gras. 

Fill some small tin hoops (about an inch and 
a half in diameter, and half an inch high) with 
good raised pie paste, fill with rice or flour : bake 
well. When baked, turn out the flour or rice. Cut 
some potted foie-gras into small dice. Season 
with a little aspic jell}^ and cold supreme sauce, 
fill the crusts nearly to the top ; when set, cover 
the top with clear aspic jelly. Dish up in a 
folded napkin, garnish with chopped aspic jelly 
and parsley, and serve. 

GOOSE-LIVER DARIOLES. 

Dai'loles de Foie-fjras. 

Put a little aspic jelly in some small plain 
dariole moulds, so that it sets round the sides and 
bottom ; fill up with potted foie-gras, place on the 
ice for an hour, turn out on glass dishes. Orna- 
ment with chopped beetroot, hard-boiled white 
of eggs, slices of cucumber, and serve. 



26 SIDE DISHES.— HORS-D'CEUVRES. 



LES COTELETTES MIGNONS A LA TOMATE. 

Ingredients. — 1 gill tomato sauce, 1 gill aspic 
jelly, quarter of a pound chicken or game force- 
meat, 1 tablespoonful of cream, 1 harrl-boilefl egg, 
seasoning, parsley for garnish, 1 truffle. 

Method. — Mask eight small cutlet moulds witli 
aspic, work the forcemeat and cream to a smooth 
substance, incorporate one hard-boiled 3^olk of 
^^g, and some aspic to make it set. Ornament 
bottom of cutlets with hard-boiled whites of ^^^ 
and truffle ; mark with the forcemeat some lines 
to imitate bones and fat of cutlet, line with the 
tomato sauce, previously mixed with aspic jelly, 
to imitate the fleshy part, fill up with the force- 
meat previously prepared, cover the surface of 
each with tomato sauce. Place them on the ice 
for about half an hour, turn out carefully, dish 
up on folded napkins or glass dishes, garnish 
with parsle}^, and serve. 

TOMATO DARIOLES. 

Dariolps de Tomafe a la Creme. 
Procure some small tomato moulds, mask them 
with reduced tomato sauce and aspic jelly. 
Stand the moulds to cool. Prepare a forcemeat 
with chicken, aspic jeli}^, and whipped cl^eam ; fill 
the moulds with this, close two halves together, 
taking care that the marks of the moulds are 
opposite to each other. Place them on the ice 
for three-quarters of an hour, then turn out and 
dish up on a folded napkin. 

TOMATOES A LA LUCULLUS. 

Take six tomatoes, scoop out the centre, season 
with salt and pepper, place a little mayonnaise 
sauce and a pickled walnut in each. 



EGGS, C A KNOT STYLE. 27 

Chop up some hard-boiled yolks of ^gg^ i^nt 
them in a basin, cover with aspic jelly, stir well, 
and allow to set in a half inch tin sheet. Dish 
up the tomatoes, and ornament the dish with small 
dice of Q^^ aspic. 

STUFFED EGGS A LA RUSSE. 

(FAifa farcU a la Russe. 

Take six hard-boiled eggs, remove the shells, 
cut them cross waj^s ; scoop out the yolks, fill in 
the vacant spaces with caviare, cover over with 
a little mayonnaise sauce, with which the yolks of 
the eggs have been incorporated. Procure a few 
even-sized tomatoes, cut them into slices. Season 
with chopped parsley, oil, vinegar, salt and pepper. 
Serve the eggs on slices of tomatoes, and garnish 
with parsley. 

EGGS, CARNOT STYLE. 

Les QJiifs a la Carnof, 

Trim neatly the edges of as man}" artichoke 
bottoms as are required, coat them over with 
some dissolved meat glaze, into which a little 
aspic jelly has been introduced. Place a dessert- 
spoonful of chicken puree in the centre of each, 
Have ready some hard-boiled eggs ; cut these cross- 
ways into halves, put half an egg in each fond^ 
point downwards, place a star of sliced truffle in 
the centre of the yolks, mask all over with aspic 
jelly. When set, ornament round each egg with 
some stiff tartare sauce, which is done best by 
means of a paper cornet. Keep in a cool place 
until wanted. 



28 SIDE DISHES.-HORS-D''CF.UVRES. 



PICKLED EGGS, 

(Eufs marines. 

Unfortunately this pickle is not much known, 
or else it would be more in general use, as it 
makes an excellent hors-d'oeuvre, and is a splen- 
did relish when eaten with cold meat, etc. 

Take some hard-boiled eggs, remove their shells, 
place them in a jar ; boil up some strong malt 
vinegar ; sufficient to cover them. With the vine- 
gar boil the usual pickling spices, cloves, ba3^-leaves, 
peppercorns, whole spice, etc. Pour the vinegar 
over the eggs, tie the jar down tight with a 
bladder. Serve in thin slices on little glass 
dishes. 

DUTCH HERRINGS. 

Ilareugs cle Hollande. 

These herrings are imported in small tubs, al- 
ready salted and prepared ; the}' should be washed 
and soaked in milk before they are used. 

Cutoff the heads and tails, split them down the 
centre, divide each half into slices, about half an 
inch thick. Place them in an oblong dish, orna- 
ment with slices of hard-boiled eggs, pour over 
some vinegar sauce, and serve. 

The sauce referred to here is called 

"VINAIGRETTE," 

and is prepared as follows: — 

Mix four tablespoonfuls of salad oil, two of 
tarragon or ravigote vinegar, chopped parslej^, 
chopped shallots, ^ teaspoonful of each, pepper 
and salt. Some chopped gherkins ma}' be added, 
if desired ; it will improve the flavour and the 
piquancy. 



VEGETABLE MARROW PICKLE. 



VEGETABLE MARROW PICKLE. 

Aubergine marliiee. 

The fruit required for pickling must be quite 
3'oung, about the size of a large pear. Pierce them 
in several places, and lay them into strong cold 
salt of brine for about two hours ; strain them and 
place them into jars. Boil up some malt vinegar, 
sufficient to cover the fruit in the jars, adding 
to every quart of vinegar two finely chopped 
shallots, ten cloves, ten black peppercorns, six 
whole pimentoes, four long peppercorns, four 
red chillies, and three bay leaves. Pour the vine- 
gar over the fruit when hot, and tie the jars over. 
French aubergines are best adapted for pickljng 
purpose. Small young cucumbers done in this 
style make also a welcome change. Serve in 
slices or quarters on little glass or china dishes. 



San&\vicbc6. 

There is nothing more relishing than a really 
good sandwich. Unfortunately, at some of the 
buffets, at restaurants and railway stations, they 
do not bear the best of reputation. Some people 
have the notion that so long as there is meat 
beiiween the slices of bread, that is all they need 
trouble about. Tasty and temptingl}' prepared 
sandwiches are not more expensive, and only 
require a little more care and attention than 
coarsely cut and dry-looking sandwiches, which 
give the guest a shudder to look at. 

The bread, the butter, and especially the season- 
ing, require the most careful treatment for the pre- 
paration of sandwiches, the various wa^^s of which 
I will now endeavour to describe. Everybody 
knows, more or less, how to prepare sandwiches. 
Those made with new bread are considered supe- 
rior, and when the crust is left on them they ap- 
pear less clammy. It is, however, best to use one 
day old tin loaves, as the appearance of the sand- 
wiches is much neater than those cut from new 
bread. They are composed of certain ingredients, 
introduced between two slices of buttered bread. 
The slices should n<.)t be cut thicker than about 
an eighth of an inch. The butter must be spread 
on evenly and thinly. AVhatever the meat used 
for sandwiches is, let it be well cut, free from skin 



HAM SANDWICHES. 31 

or gristle, and seasoned with salt, pepper, mustard, 
etc. The crust of the bread should by rights be 
pared off before the sUces are cut. 

Sandwiches, as a rule, are dished up on folded 
napkins, and are dressed in circles, so that one 
overlaps the other. It is well to lay a damp nap- 
kin over the sandwiches, if they are not immedi- 
ately wanted, in order to keep them moist. 

Among those in ordinary use are sandwiches 
made of ham, beef, tongue, mutton, veal, chicken, 
game, various kinds of potted meat, hsh pasties, 
sausages, pickles, hard-boiled eggs, etc. 

SUPERIOR SANDWICH BUTTER. 

Weigh half-a-pound of butter and work it in a 
basin with a wooden spoon until soft, then add 
gently a gill of whipped cream, a little salt and 
mustard to taste, and place it in a cool place until 
required. 

This butter is considered a great improvement 
for buttering the bread for sandwiches, as it is 
more convenient for spreading, and the sand- 
wiches eat far better than those made with ordi- 
nary butter. This butter will keep from two to 
three weeks if kept on the ice, or in a very cool 
place. 

HAM SANDWICHES. 

Sandwich de Jamhon. 

Cut some slices of stale bread, about an eighth 
of an inch thick, butter them thinly, and cover 
half the slices with thin slices of ham, spread a 
little mixed mustard over the ham ; and place a 
slice of bread and butter over each. Press them 
together firmly, and cut them into neat pieces. 



SAND WICHES. 



Disb them up neatly on a folded napkin, and 
garnish with parsley. 

TOMATO SANDWICHES. 

Saiidivkhes aiix Tomates. 

Very appetizing and nutritious sandwiches can 
be made from concentrated tomatoes (tomato 
paste). Cut two slices of thin bread and butter. 
and spread a little of the tomato paste over one of 
the pieces, with a little mustard, pepper and salt ; 
press the other slice of bread and butter upon it, 
remove crust, cut into neat pieces, and serve as 
above. 

Note. — Slices of skinned ripe tomatoes intro- 
duced instead of tomato paste make also very nice 
sandwiches. 

CHICKElSr SANDWICHES. 

Sandick-hes de VolaiUc. 

Cut the flesh of some cooked fowl into neat 
slices, lay these between slices of buttered bread, 
trim, press, and cut into eight parts ; dish up in a 
circle. Place some finel}' shred lettuce leaves 
and small cress in the centre, and serve. The 
meat should be seasoned with pepper and salt, 
before it is made up into sandwiches. 

GAME SANDWICHES. 

Sail die (dies de Glhier. 

Cut the flesh of any kind of cooked game into 
neat slices, and prepare the sandwiches as above 
described. 



HADDOCK AND ANCHOVY SANDWICHES. 



ADELAIDE SANDWICHES. 

Cat some neat slices of cliickeii and ham, spread 
some thin slices of bread, butter well, spread with 
a thin la3^er of curr}^ paste, and make np into 
sandwiches in the usual wa}'. 

HAMBURG SANDWICHES. 

Cut some thin slices of German smoked ham 
sausages, butter some slices of bread, spread with 
a little made mustard, and a thin layer of sliced 
gherkins. Lay the slices of sausage between two 
slices of bread, and proceed in the usual way. 

ANCHOVY SANDWICHES, NELSON STYLE. 

SandwicJiPs cVAnchois a la Nelson. 

Scrape and bone ten Gorgona anchovies, pound 
them in a mortar with a little fresh butter, the 
yolks of three hard-boiled eggs, a small quantity 
of curry powder, a little cayenne, and two table- 
spoonfuls of grated Parmesan cheese. 

Cut some round slices of bread, about two inches 
in diameter, and an eighth of an inch in thick- 
ness ; butter one side of them, spread the mixture 
over each, press the two covered sides together, 
trim, and serve on a folded napkin. Garnish 
with parsley and radishes. 

HADDOCK AND ANCHOVY SANDWICHES. 

Sandiciches a la Noriceglenne. 

Boil some smoked haddock, remove the meat 
from the bones, pass it through a mincing 
machine, pound it in a mortar with one-third of 
its quantity of butter, and one-fourth of anchovy 

s. p. p 



34 SANDWICHES. 



paste ; add pepper and salt to taste. Warm up 
in a stew-pan. Stir from time to time, until cold, 
and use for making the required sandwiches. 

SHRIMP SANDWICHES. 

Saiuhciches a la pate de Crevetfes. 

Pound some picked shrimps with a little fresh 
butter and anchovy essence, until quite fine. Add 
a little lemon juice, pepper and salt to taste. 

Cut some thin slices of brown bread and butter, 
spread the paste on them, cover with a second 
slice; press them together, cut them into different 
shapes, dish up on a napkin : garnish with parsle}^, 
and serve. 

CAVIARE SANDWICHES. 

Sandiciches au Caviar Titisse. 

Cut some thin slices of white or brown bread 
and butter ; spread some caviare thinl}' over the 
slices ; sjDrinkle with a little lemon juice and a little 
ca3^enne pepper. Cover each with a second slice 
of bread and butter, press them lightly together, 
and cut them into neat pieces. Serve nicely 
arranged on a napkin or dish paper. 



CHEESE SANDWICHES. \ 

Sandiciches au Fromago. 

Make a mixture of cheese (grated) and butter, 
a small quantity of ancliov}^ paste, salt and pepper 
to taste. Cut thin slices of bread and butter, 
spread the mixture over a slice, put another slice 
of bread and butter on the top, press well, trim, 
cut into convenient slices and serve. 



SAiXDinCHES A LA WELLINGTON. 



FOIE GRAS SANDWICHES. 

Samliciches de Foie gras-. 

Turn out a tin or terrine of foie gras, remove 
the fat. cut into thin slices, taking care not to break 
the slices. Prepare thin slices of bread and 
butter; la}' the foie gras between two slices, trim, 
press them, and serve as the above. 

EGG SANDWICHES. 

Sandwiches mix Guifs. 

Boil some fresh eggs hard ; when cold, pound 
the yolk and white together in a mortar, with a 
little fresh butter : add salt, pepper and a little 
caj'enne to taste. Spread the mixture thus on 
thin cut bread and butter, press well, trim them, 
cut them into neat pieces, and serve on a napkin, 
garnished with parsley. 

XoTE : Slices of hard-boiled eggs introduced 
between slices of bread and butter make also nice 
sandwiches. 

SANDWICHES A LA WELLINGTON. 

Take some cold beef, mutton, or veal, a few 
turned olives and a small handful cf capers. Bone 
a few ^anchovies, pass all through a mincing 
machinfe' with a quarter of a pound of marinated 
tunnjMfish. Add t'wo yolks of hard-boiled egg^ 
and a little cayenne pepper. When fine enough, 
pass the mixture through a coarse wire sieve. 
Spread this puree on thin slices of brown bread, 
cover each with another, press together, and 
stamp them out with a round fancy cutter. Pass 
the hard-boiled whites of the two eggs through a 
coarse wire sieve, cover over the surface of the 



36 SANDWICHES. 

sandwiches with it. Dish them up in a circular 
row, place some seasoned endive, or an 3^ other crisp 
salad in the centre, ornament with a few prawns 
and freshly picked parsley. 

VICTORIA SANDWICHES. 

Sandwiches a la Victoria. 

Have ready some hard-boiled eggs cut into thin 
slices, some well washed and drained small cress, 
also some filleted Grorgona anchovies. Cut some 
slices of brown bread and butter, about an eighth 
of an inch in thickness. Place between two slices 
of alternate layers, the slices of hard-boiled eggs, 
the anchovy fillets, and the cress. Press them to- 
gether, cut into oblongs or squares, place them on 
a folded napkin or dish paper, garnish with parsley, 
and serve. 

FRESH COD'S ROE SANDWICHES. 

Sandwiches ciux Laitence des CahiUaud. 

Put half an ounce of fresh butter into a stew- 
pan, add some finely chopped shallots, or a small 
onion, and fry until light brown. Have ready 
some fresh boiled cod's roe and liver, cut into small 
slices, and put them into the stew-pan, adding 
some chopped chives and parsley, pepper, salt and 
a little chilli vinegar to taste. Stir for a few 
minutes ; then pound all in a mortar until fine. 
Finally, pass it through a wire sieve, and let it get 
cool. Spread the paste between thin slices of 
brown bread and butter. A little French anchovy 
mustard, added between, will improve the flavour. 
When pressed, trim and cut them into squares or 
oblongs ; dish up on a folded napkin. 



SARDINE AND TOMATO SANDWICH. 37 

GRUYERE CHEESE SANDWICHES. 

Sandwkhes au Fromage de Gruyere. 

Cut some thin slices of bread and butter, spread 
the buttered sides with a little French mustard, 
sprinkle thickly with grated Gruy ere cheese, season 
with white pepper, salt and a small percentage of 
cayenne. Press the two covered sides of shces to- 
gether, cut them into oblongs, dish up on a napkin 
or dish paper, and garnish with parsley. 

NEW YORK SANDWICHES. 

>Saiulit'/'ches a VAmericaine. 

Put three yolks of eggs into a basin, stir with a 
wooden spoon, adding a little salt, tarragon vinegar, 
essence of anchovies, and say about six table- 
spoonfuls of best salad oil. Add the oil and vinegar 
only in small quantities, and stir until it becomes 
quite thick. Beard, trim, and chop up hnely about 
two dozen oysters ; season with pepper, salt, 
cayenne, lemon juice, and work same gradually 
into the above sauce. 

Cut some round French rolls, a day old, into 
thin slices, butter them ; spread the mixture on 
one slice, cover with another, press them and 
dish up. The above quantity of oysters should be 
sufhcient to made two dozen small sandwiches. 

SARDINE AND TOMATO SANDWICH. 

Sandwiches aux Sardines et Tomates. 

Bone some sardines, pound them in a mortar, 
adding a little fresh butter. Pass through a 
wire sieve, season with cayenne and white pepper 
and salt. Skin a few firm ripe tomatoes, cut 



38 SANDWICHES. 



them into slices, squeeze a little lemon juice over 
each. Season with pepper, salt, and a little castor 
sugar. Cut some thin slices of white or brown 
bread and butter, spread the paste in order on one 
slice, and place the slices of tomatoes on the 
other ; lay together, press lightly, trim, and cut 
up in squares or oblongs. Dish up and garnish 
with parsle}'. 

PRINCESS SANDWICHES. 

Samhcichcs a la Prince.sse. 

Pound some chicken meat (cooked) in a mortar ; 
when thoroughly fine, add three 3'olks of hard- 
boiled eggs, some grated cheese, a little French 
mustard, tarragon vinegar, salad oil in small pro- 
portions, season with salt and pepper. Work all 
into a smooth paste, and pass through a wire 
sieve. Cut some thin slices of white bread, 
butter them, spread the paste between these, 
close them, and press the slices well together. 
Stamp them out with a plain oval cutter, about 
two inches long, dish up en couronne on a folded 
napkin or dish paper, on an oblong or round dish. 
Garnish with coarsely chopped white of egg. 
chopped cooked ox-tongue, and freshl}^ picked 
parsley, and serve. 

ST. JAMES'S SANDWICHES. 

SaudictcJiPS a la Sa/iif JacqiK-s. 

Prepare some puff paste, or take the trimmings 
left from pies or patties. Roll out the paste, 
about one - third of an inch thick, put a few 
small pieces of butter, about as big as a haricot 



GROUSE SAiVDWICHES. 39 

bean, over tli& surface, half an incli apart, sprinkle 
with flour. Eoll in a thin roll, let it rest for about 
ten minutes, then roll out again, dredge it with 
flour, roll it up and fold in three ; now roll it out 
in about three quarters of an inch in thickness. 
Cut the paste into oblongs, two and a half inches 
long, and one and a quarter inch wide. Place them 
on baking sheets, let them stand a few minutes, 
brush over the surface with egg, and then bake 
them in a hot oven. When they are done, split 
them nearly in half, remove a little of the soft 
paste, and spread in a layer of the following pre- 
paration : — Take some cold game, fowl, tongue and 
ham, pass it through the mincing machine, with 
a little butter, until very fine ; whip a small 
quantity of cream, also white of egg separately; 
mix both slowly with the meat paste. Season 
with a little lemon juice, cayenne pepper and salt. 
The sandwiches must be filled, while they are 
warm, and when filled, should be placed in the 
oven again, for a few minutes, in order to set the 
stuffing and to seal the sandwiches. Serve hot 
or cold. 

GROUSE SANDWICHES. 

Sandii'lches de Glhier. 

Pound some meat of cooked grouse or any 
other bird (roasted or boiled i in a mortar, add a 
little ground mace, currj^ paste and chutney, in 
small proportions ; also pepper and salt to taste. 
Work it well into a smooth paste, which spread 
between thinly cut slices of bread and butter. 
Trim and press them together, and cut them 
into oblongs. 



40 . SANDWICHES. 



LUCULLUS SANDWICHES. 

Sandiciches a la Lucullus. 

Cut the fillets from a capon or fowl, beat them 
fiat, and place them into some sandwich moulds, 
which put on a buttered baking sheet. Brush 
the top with some white of Qgg^ cover with a 
thin layer of slices of tongue, moisten with white 
of egg^ and cover with another layer of fillet. 
Cover them over with buttered paper, and cook 
them gently. When done, press each sandwich 
and stand them in the cool. Remove and clean 
the moulds, put a little aspic jelly into the bottom 
of them, lay a sandwich in the centre, and fill up 
with aspic. Let them set in a cool place, and 
turn out on a silver or china dish, garnished with 
parsley. 

ALEXANDRA SANDWICHES. 

Cut the meat off some roast game, when cold, 
and mince into small pieces ; add to this some 
cooked tongue, ham and truffles, cut into very 
small discs ; mix all with a little hot salmi sauce, 
containing a small quantity of meat glaze, season 
with pepper and salt. Place this preparation into 
a square mould, and set it on the ice to cool. Rasp 
some small rolls, cut them into slices about one- 
eighth of an inch in thickness; butter these. Lay 
a thin slice of the above preparation between the 
bread and butter, press and trim, dish up, and 
serve with lemon pickle. 

GLADSTONE SANDWICHES. 

Prepare some very thin slices of toasted bread, 
lay between the slices alternately some thinly cut 



SMOKED SALMON SANDWICHES. 41 



slices of cold pheasant, or partridge, finely shred 
celery, and remoulade sauce ; dish up on a napkin, 
and serve. 

SPORTSMAN SANDWICHES. 

Sandii'idiQs a la Chasseur. 

Cat some slices of white bread, about a quarter 
of an inch in thickness, toast them lightly on both 
sides, split and butter them, lay between them 
some very thin slices of roast game, spread a 
little tartare sauce in which a little French mus- 
tard has been mixed, over the meat ; press them 
together. Pack them in waterproof butter paper, 
so as to keep them moist, wash and dry a few 
sprays of endive and small cress, wrap up in butter 
paper, and pack it with the sandwiches. 

SALMON SANDWICHES. 

Sandaiches de Saiimon. 

Cut some thin slices of white or brovv^n bread 
and butter, the same as for other sandwiches; 
lay some thin scallops of boiled cold salmon on 
the buttered side of the bread. Spread with a 
little stiff tartare sauce, also a layer of finely 
shred lettuce ; cover with bread and butter. Cut 
into squares or oblongs, and serve on a folded 
napkin or dish paper. 

SMOKED SALMON SANDWICHES. 

Sandiciches an Saumon fume. 

Cut some slices of bread, about an eighth of an 
inch in thickness, stamp them ouL with a round or 
oval cutter ; butter these lightly, spread a little 
anchovy paste on the butter, and lay thin slices 



42 SANDWICHES. 



of smoked salmon betAveen two of tliem. Press 
them together, dish up on a napkin or dish paper, 
garnish with parsley, anrl serve. 

CHESHIRE MEAT SANDWICHES. 

Sandwiches an Fromage et Viande a VAnfjlaisc. 

Take equal quantities of fresh butter, grated 
Cheshire cheese, a little mustard, and work into a 
smooth paste, which spread upon thin slices of 
sandwich bread. Lay on it thin slices of any kind 
of cold meat, cover with another slice of bread 
and butter, press, cut into shapes, and serve. 

OYSTER SANDWICHES. 

Sandicichoa aiix IlnUrea. 

Select a few large oysters, boil them up in their 
own juice, cut off their beards, pound them in a 
mortar with a little fresh butter and lemon juice, 
season with cayenne pepper and salt. When cold, 
spread the paste between thinly cut slices of 
brown bread and butter ; press, trim and cut, and 
serve as ordinary sandwiches. 

GHERKIN AND EGG SANDWICHES. 

Sand If idles aux (Eufs cf Cornichons. 

Boil three eggs for fifteen minutes, remove the 
shells. When cold, pound the yolk of the eggs in 
a mortar, with a little fresh butter ; season with 
salt and cayenne pepper ; chop the white of eggs 
and four gherkins finely, and mix all together 
into a paste. Cut some thin slices of bread and 
butter, spread the paste between two slices, divide 
them into small oblongs or squares, dish up on a 
folded napkin, garnish with parsley, and serve. 



MILAN SANDWICHES. 



SALAD SANDWICHES. 

Prepare some slired lettuce, watercress and 
mustard and cress ; mix lightly with mayonnaise 
sauce, lay thinh' between some thin slices of bread 
and butter. Press the slices well together, cut 
them into neat pieces, and serve. 

PRINCE GEORGE SANDWICHES. 

Mince some cold game very finel}^, mix it with 
a little stiff salmi sauce, a chopped truffle and a 
chopped mushroom; incorporate sufficient dis- 
solved meat glaze to form a smooth paste. Cut 
some large milk rolls into slices an eighth of an 
inch thick; butter these lightly; spread over half 
the slices with a la3'er of the minced game, cover- 
ing each with the other halves: press, trim a little, 
dish up on a folded napkin, garnish with sprigs 
of watercress, and serve. 

MILAN SANDWICHES. 

Prepare some thin slices of slightly toasted and 
buttered bread, spread with a la3^er of stiff' tar- 
tare sauce ; lay upon this some slices of cooked 
game and some finely shred celery. Place two 
together, trim neatly, cut into desired pieces, 
dish up in a circle. Garnish the dish with aspic 
jelly cut into dice, and small salad. 



Savoury 2)i6be6 of 3fi6b, 



FISH FRITTERS. 

Belynets de Polsson. 

Remove the skin and bones from any kind of 
cold fish, put the picked j^ieces of fish in a basin, 
add a piece of soft butter and some bread crumbs, 
season with pepper, salt, grated nutmeg and peel 
of lemon ; moisten with beaten eggs. Mix all well 
together, shape into neat pieces, dip in egg^ bread 
crumb and grated cheese, place in a wire basket, 
and fry in hot fat or butter. Garnish with fried 
parsley. 

SMOKED FISH FRITTERS. 

Bcifjneta de FoiasonfuDies. 

Remove skin, and bones from some smoked fish, 
— bloater, haddock, salmon or kippered herring ; 
cut it into nice pieces, season with white pepper 
and cayenne. Dip in some prepared frying batter, 
fry in hot fat or butter until crisp, drain well on 
a cloth, dish up on a folded napkin, garnish with 
fried parsley, and serve. 

SAVOURY KEDGEREE. 

Kedgeree de Poissou. 

Melt a piece of butter in a stew-pan, add a 
handful of boiled rice and the same quantity of 



LOBSTER AC GRATIN. 45 



flakes of any remains of white cold fish, and two 
hard-boiled eggs, finel}^ chopped. Season with 
salt, pepper, and a little ca^^enne, moisten with a 
little maitre d'hotel sauce, stir over the fire until 
thoroughly hot, dress on small squares of buttered 
toast on a dish, sprinkle with coarsel}^ chopped 
hard-boiled yolks of eggs and finely chopped pars- 
ley, garnish with shreds of hard-boiled white of 
^^'g^ and serve. 

SALMON AU GRATIN. 

Saumon an Gratln. 

The remains of some cooked salmon is picked 
carefully from the bones and skin, whilst warm. 
Break the fish into flakes or small pieces, season 
with pepper and a little cayenne, moisten with 
some bechamel sauce, mix with a little grated Par- 
mesan cheese and bread crumbs ; arrange neatly 
on a buttered gratin dish. Sprinkle all over with 
grated Parmesan cheese and fine bread crumbs, 
place a few small bits of butter on the top, bake 
m a hot oven until light brown, and serve on the 
same dish. 

LOBSTER AU GRATIN. 

Homard an Gratin. 

Split a fresh-boiled lobster into halves, take out 
the fish carefully, so as not to break the shells, 
break the claws, and take out the meat. Mince 
up the fish, put it in a stew-pan with a piece of 
butter, moisten wdth a yolk of egg and white sauce, 
season with salt, pepper and cayenne, stir over 
the fire for a few minutes. Fill the shells with 
the mixture, sprinkle the top with bread crumbs, 
brush over with oiled butter, bake in a hot oven 



46 SAVOURY DISHES OF FISH. 



until brown, dish up on a folded napkin, garnish 
with fresh parsle}^, and serve. 

SCOLLOPED LOBSTER. 

CoqutUes de Uomard. 

Chop up some lobster meat, put it into a stew- 
pan with a little white sauce, a small piece of 
butter and one ounce anchovy paste ; season with 
salt, pepper, nutmeg, cayenne and lemon juice ; 
stir over the fire for a few minutes, mix with two 
yolks of eggs, fill some shells with this, cover over 
with fried bread crumbs, brown with a salamander, 
dish up on a folded napkin, garnish with crisped 
parsley, and serve. 

SALMON FRITTERS. 

Beiguofs de Saumon. 

Put half a pint of water in a small stew-pan, 
set it on the fire with one ounce of butter. When 
the latter is dissolved add a tablespoonful of grated 
cheese, and work in about half an ounce of sifted 
flour. Stir well over the fire until the paste loos- 
ens from the sides, then add one by one three eggs, 
and a pinch of salt. Flake some cooked salmon, 
season with salt and pepper, shape into small balls 
about the size of walnuts, dip these in the pre- 
pared batter, fry slowly in hot fat or lard, until of 
a light brown colour. Drain and serve. 

DEVILLED LAX IN CRUSTS. 

Cr Olden de Lax a la Diahle. 

Cut six very small French rolls in halves, scoop 
out the crumb, place them in the oven to get 



DEVILLED SALMON [SMOKED). 47 



crisp. Have ready a large tin of lax, divide care- 
fully into flakes, put it into a stew-pan with two 
pats of butter, a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, 
one of chopped shallots, a pinch of cayenne, and 
one teaspoonful of curr}^ powder ; allow it to get 
thoroughly hot, fill the bread crusts, glaze over 
each with some dissolved meat extract, place a 
few strips of lax over each in the lattice-work 
i'ashion, and serve hot. 

DEVILLED SHRIMPS IN CRUSTS. 

Croiitefi do. Crevottofi a la Diablo. 

Proceed the same wa}^ as the foregoing recipe, 
and substitute the lax with as man}^ picked 
shrimps as are required to fill the crusts. Keserve 
one large shrimp for placing in the centre of each 
croute, and garnish with parsley. 

CXJIIHIED PRAWNS. 

Jicror/.sses a VOriontale. 

Skin about thirty prawns, fry a small sliced 
onion in three ounces of butter, stir in one ounce 
of flour and one dessertspoonful of cuny powder, 
moisten with half a pint of milk, and let it boil for 
ten minutes ; then add the prawns, and the juice of 
half a lemon, boil gently for another ten minutes, 
and serve with boiled rice. 

DEVILLED SALMON (SMOKED). 

Saumon fami^ a la Diablo. 

Place some whole meal or water biscuits into 
best salad oil to soak for a few minutes : dust with 
salt, cayenne, and black pepper. On both sides 



48 SAVOU/v'Y DISHES OF FISH. 

toast the biscuits over a gridiron ; place upon 
the biscuits some thinly cut slices of smoked 
salmon, cover these with a thin layer of devilled 
paste or butter, place them in a hot oven for a 
feAv minutes. Dish up, and serve as hot as 
possible. 

DEVILLED CRABS. 

Crahe aux (Eufs a la Diablo. 

Dissolve three ounces of butter in a stew- 
pan ; add a tablespoonful of flour ; stir over the 
tire for a few minutes ; moisten with a little 
white stock, and four tablespoonfuls of cream ; 
add a boiled onion, finely chopped. Season with 
salt, pepper, grated nutmeg, and cayenne. Have 
ready the meat of a crab, mix it with the sauce, 
boil up, stir in a raw egg^ and stir until it thickens, 
then pour on a flat dish to cool. Fill the mixture 
into the back shells of the crabs, brush over with 
oiled butter and egg, cover with fine bread crumbs^ 
bake in a hot oven until light brown. Dish up on 
folded napkins, garnish with parsley, and serve. 



CAN APEXES OP CRAB, CURRIED. 

Canapecs de Crabe a Vlndkiine. 

Remove the white meat and bed from the shell 
of a crab, pound it in a mortar with a piece of 
butter, about the size of a walnut. Season with 
salt, pepper, lemon juice, nutmeg, mustard, and 
cayenne ; moisten with a little tarragon vinegar. 
Add a small handful of fried bread crumbs. Have 
ready some small rounds of fried bread, scooped out 



FRITTERS OF HADDOCK. 49 



ill the centre to take the stuffing, of which put a 
tablespoonful in each. Mask the top with a thick 
curry sauce, sprinkle over with bread crumbs, bake 
for a few minutes, and serve. 

SAVOUflY CEAB WITH TOMATO SAUCE. 

Uayout (h Crabe a la Tomate. 

Break up a boiled crab, separate all the meat 
from the shell and claws. Put the meat into a 
stew-pan with a handful of soft bread crumbs, 
four tablespoonfuls of tomato sauce, the juice of 
half a lemon, the rind of half a lemon finely 
chopped, season with salt and pepper, add a wine- 
glassful of wdiite wine or sherry. Let all simmer 
over the fire, whilst stirring, for ten minutes ; 
add a small piece of fresh butter, bring once more 
to the boil, turn out on a deep dish ; garnish the 
dish with fried bread croutons and rings of lemon, 
and serve. 

SAVOURY OF DRIED HADDOCK. 

fSaioureux da Mevludie fum(}e, 

Remove all skin and bones from a large boiled 
dried haddock, pound the flesh in a mortar, and 
mix with it two ounces grated Parmesan cheese, a 
teaspoonful of chopped parsley, pepper and salt, 
and three yolks of eggs. Shape the mixture into 
small balls, and fry them in boiling butter or 
lard ; serve on small squares of toasted or fried 
bread, and garnish with fried parsley. 

HADDOCK FRITTERS. 

BeltjnetH de Merluchcfumee. 

Remove skin and bones from a kippered had- 
dock, cut it into pieces about an inch long, dip 

8. D. E 



50 SAVOURY DISHES OF FISH. 



them in rather thick heignet or frying-batter; fry 
in boiUng lard or fat, but see that the same is not 
too hot, as the fritters will require quite fifteen 
minutes to cook. When done, drain on a cloth, 
dust with salt and a little cayenne, and serve very 
hot. 

FILLET OF BLOATERS ON TOAST. 

Ftlefs de ITareng^ fum(' surCroutes. 

Skin, split and bone four nice bloaters ; cut 
into neat fillets, brush over with oiled butter, and 
broil over a quick fire. Have ready some freshly 
made toast, butter well, sprinkle with grated 
Parmesan cheese ; cut into neat strips, and place 
one fillet on each ; pass a few minutes in the oven, 
dish up ; garnish with parsle}^, and serve. 

SARDINES WITH POACHED EGGS. 

SarcJiiif's aux (Eufs pucht^s a V Allemande. 

Cut some slices of bread about one-third of an 
inch in thickness, trim into equal-sized oval shapes. 
Beat up an Qgg with a little milk, and dip the 
bread slices therein ; fry them in butter a delicate 
brown colour. Arrange the slices round the edge 
of a dish, to form a border, as explained below. 
Mince the yolks of four hard-boiled eggs, put 
these in a stew-pan with a small piece of butter, 
flavour with chopped parsle}^, beetroot, tarragon, 
and the juice of half a lemon ; add a dessertspoon- 
ful of prepared mustard, one of chopped capers. 
Stir over the fire for a few minutes, thicken with 
a small quantity of fine bread crumbs. Mask 
some freshly poached eggs with this, and place 
them in the centre of the dish. Ornament the 



GRILLED SARDINES IN PAPER CASES. 51 

tops with fillets of sardines ; spread one-half of 
the sippets with the remainder of the mixture, 
and the other half with some sardine paste ; lay 
them round the dish, so that one slice rests on 
the edge of the other, thus forming the border ; 
dust well with cayenne. Place the dish in the 
oven for a few minutes to get thoroughly hot, and 
serve quickly. 

SARDINE CAWAPEES. 

Canajjces de Sardines. 

Cut some slices of bread, trim these into finger 
shapes, fry in butter to a nice yellow colour. Bone 
twenty-four sardines, pound half the quantity in 
a mortar, with an ounce of butter and two yolks 
of eggs ; season with pepper, mustard, chopped 
chives, parsle}^, and tarragon ; spread the mix- 
ture over the fried bread. Lay one of the remain- 
ing sardines on each finger, place in the oven for a 
few minutes, dish up, garnish with crayfish tails, 
slices of gherkins, and pickled beetroot, and serve. 



GRILLED SARDINES IN PAPER CASES. 

Sardines grlUees en rapilottes. 

Drain and wipe twelve large sardines : dip them 
carefully in oiled butter ; sprinkle with a little 
salt and cayenne, roll in a mixture of chopped 
mushrooms and parsley. Wrap each in a piece of 
thin buttered paper, twist the ends neatly, place 
on a baking sheet in the oven until hot ; dress on 
fingers of toasted bread, in the papers ; garnish 
with parsley, and serve. 



52 SAVOURY DISHES OF FISH. 



BROILED SARDINES WITH HAM. 

Sardines au Jambon. 

Prepare a dozen large sardines, as in foregoing 
recipe ; dip them in oiled butter, roll in a mix- 
ture of two parts of finely chopped cooked ham, 
and one part of grated Parmesan cheese ; lay the 
sardines on slices of buttered toast, dust with 
a little cayenne ; put them in the oven to get hot, 
dish up, garnish with parsley, and serve. 

SARDINES A LA PROVENCALE. 

Cut some neat fingers of bread, fry them in 
clarified butter and drain them. Clean a quantit3^ 
of sardines, put one on each finger ; dish up on a 
round dish, in the form of a lattice-work ; place 
the dish in the oven for a few minutes to get 
thoroughly hot ; have ready a sauce made with 
three yolks of eggs, well beaten, a small piece of 
butter, a tablespoonful of cream, a few drops of 
essence of anchovy, and a tablespoonful of hnely 
chopped boiled onions, salt, pepper and cayenne 
to taste. Stir this over the fire until it thickens, 
pour over the dish of sardines, sprinkle with a few 
drops of meat glaze, and serve. 

DEVILLED SARDINES. 

Sardines a la Diahle. 

Choose ten or twelve nice sardines, drain and 
wipe them, sprinkle with mustard and cayenne. 
Broil in a little butter on both sides ; serve on 
fingers of buttered toast. 



ANCHOVY FINGERS WITH CHEESE. 53 



SARDINE CROUSTADE, WITH CHEESE. 

Croustade de Sardines, an Fromage. 

Pound six sardines (boned) in a mortar, with a 
handful of grated cheese ; season with salt, pepper, 
and chilli vinegar ; add one egg, and a few finely 
chopped cooked bearded oysters ; fill the mixture 
in some small fried bread crusts, cover with hard- 
boiled yolks of eggs, previously rubbed through a 
sieve ; put in the oven for a few minutes before 
serving, to get thoroughly hot. Dish up on a 
folded napkin, and garnish with fried parsley. 

SARDINES WITH CHEESE. 

Sardines au Fromage. 

Drain and wipe a dozen sardines, split them in 
halves, remove the bones, dip in warmed butter, 
roll in grated cheese, place the fillets on fried 
bread croutons ; set them in a hot oven for a few 
minutes, and serve when quite hot. 

ANCHOVY FINGERS WITH CHEESE. 

Croutons d'Anchois au Fromage. 

Pound six filleted anchovies with a piece of 
butter in a mortar, add a teaspoonful of curry 
pow^der, three j^olks of eggs, and a tablespoonful 
of grated Parmesan cheese, warm up the whole in 
a stew-pan. Prepare some square pieces of toast, 
about half an inch thick, split it open like a 
muffin ; spread the mixture thickly between the 
inside of the toast, sprinkle with Parmesan cheese, 
season with a little cayenne pepper, press two 
slices together, cut them into fingers, which place 
in a hot oven for a few" minutes. Dress them on 
a dish, in the lattice-work fashion, garnish with 
fresh parsley, and serve. 



54 SAVOURY DISHES OF FISH. 



FRIED ANCHOVIES. 

Anchois frits. 

Prepare a frying batter with flonr, a tablespoon- 
ful of oil, and half a glass of white wine ; mix 
well. Cleanse and wipe a dozen Gorgona anchovies, 
dip them in the ]3aste, and drop one by one in 
boiling fat or lard ; fry to a nice brown colour, 
drain on a cloth. Serve on a folded napkin, on a 
dish, and garnish with fried parsley. 

ANCHOVY TOAST, No. 1. 

Croutons cVAiichois a VAnglaise. 

Melt a piece of butter, the size of a walnut, in a 
stew-pan, add a teaspoonful of anchov}^ paste, and 
two yolks of eggs, well beaten. Stir until quite 
hot, taking care not to let it boil ; pour this over 
some prepared hot buttered toast, dust with cay- 
enne, and serve. 

ANCHOVY TOAST, No. 2. 

Mix the 3^olks of two hard-boiled eggs with two 
teaspoonfuls of anchovy paste, rub through a 
sieve, spread it on some thickly buttered slices of 
toasted bread, and serve as hot as possible. 

ANCHOVY ECLAIRS. 
Kclalrs d^ Audio is. 

Scrape, wipe and bone ten Gorgona anchovies, 
roll out some short paste or remnants of puiF paste, 
very thin, enclose each fish neatly in the ])aste. 
Place them on a baking sheet, brush over w^itli 
beaten egg^ sprinkle some grated Parmesan cheese 
and a pinch of cayenne pepper over each ; bake 
in a quick oven for ten minutes, and serve. 



SAVOUJ^y AXCHOVY TOAST. 55 



CURRIED ANCHOVY CROUTONS. 

Croutons cVAncJwis a VIndlennp. 

Soak six Gorgona anchovies in cold water, drain, 
wipe and bone them, put the fish into a mortar, 
and pound with an ounce of butter, a teaspoonful 
of curry powder or curry paste, the yolk of a raw 
e^gg^ mix well. Put it through a sieve, into a 
stew-pan ; stir over the fire until hot. Have read}' 
some rounds of fried bread, spread these over 
thinly with anchov}^ paste, cover with the above 
mixture, and dust with caj^enne pepper. Dish up, 
put the dish in the oven for a few minutes just 
before serving. Garnish with fresh parsley, and 
serve. 

ANCHOVY BISCUITS. 

Biscuits au Bcurre cVAncliois. 

Pound the fillets of six anchovies in a mortar 
w^ith two ounces of butter, add a pinch of cayenne 
pepper, a little nutmeg, and a teaspoonful of 
essence of anchovies ; rub through a sieve, spread 
some round or oblong A^-ater biscuits with the 
paste, place them in the oven to get quite hot ; 
garnish the tops w^ith strips of filleted anchovies, 
and small sprigs of fresh parsley ; dish up on a 
folded napkin, and serve. 

SAVOURY ANCHOVY TOAST. 

Croutons iVAnchois aux Jinos Hevhes. 

Wash, drain, bone and pound twelve Gorgona 
anchovies, wdth a few sprigs of parsley, a small 
shallot, a sprig or two of chives and tarragon, a 
dust of cayenne pepper ; flavour with lemon juice, 
moisten wath a little sweet oil, spread on hot 



56 SAVOURY DISHES OF FTSH. 

buttered toast, which should be cut into fingers. 
Dish up on a folded napkin or dish paper, garnish 
with fresh parsley, and serve. 

BROILED OYSTERS. 

Ihrdrps (111 Beiirre. 

Open, drain and trim a dozen large oj^sters, dry 
them on a cloth, dip in oiled butter, season with 
white pepper, lay the oyster on a hot gridiron over 
the fire ; brown them lightly on both sides. Dish 
up on small rounds of toasted bread, garnish with 
crisped parsley, and serve. 

OYSTER BONNES-BOUCHES. 

Bonnes-Bouches aiix ITnUrcs. 

Take six large oysters from the shells, drain and 
trim them, wrap them up lightly in thin pieces 
of bacon, fasten each with a small skewer. Stamp 
out some slices of bread with a circular cutter, fry 
these in butter to a light colour, grill the 03^sters 
in front of a clear fire. When done on both sides, 
butter the croutons, place the oysters, neatly 
trimmed, with the l3acon on them, dish up, 
garnish with j)arsley, and serve. 

OYSTERS ON TOAST. 

Iluitres siir Pahi {irilh'. 

Open, drain, trim and chop twelve large oysters, 
season with salt, pepper and grated nutmeg ; put 
them into a stew-pan with a small piece of butter, 
stir in whilst simmering a tablespoonful of cream 
and the yolks of two eggs, well beaten. When set, 
pour the preparation over some slices of buttered 
toast, and serve. 



BROILED OYSTERS, NEW YORK STYLE. 57 



FRIED OYSTERS. 

Unit res f rites. 

Open some o^^sters, trim and drain them, season 
with pepper, dredge Avith flour, dip in egg and 
bread crumbs. Fr}" in boiling fat or clarified 
butter, drain on a cloth, dish up on a folded 
napkin. Garnish with rings of lemon, sprigs of 
watercresses or parsley, and serve. 

GRILLED OYSTERS. 

lluUres a V Ami' r iced ne. 

Open, drain and trim some large American 
oysters, dip them in flour, brush with egg all over, 
crumb in seasoned white bread crumbs. Rub the 
bars of a gridiron with suet or fat. Grill the 
oysters on both sides to a golden colour, dish up on 
a folded napkin or dish paper. Garnish with 
lemon rings and fried parsley. 

SAVOURY OYSTERS. 

Ilmtres aux fines Herhes. 

Take twelve large oysters, drain them on a 
cloth, trim them, dip in oiled butter, sprinkle 
all over with finely powdered savoury herbs. 
When set and nearly cold, egg and bread crumb 
them carefully. Season the bread crumbs with salt, 
pepper and chopped parsley before crumbing. Fry 
in hot fat or clarified butter. Dish up on rings of 
lemon, garnish with fresh parsley, and serve. 

BROILED OYSTERS, NEW YORK STYLE. 

Ihutres sautes a VAmericaine. 

Take twelve fat 03'sters, drain and trim them, 
season with salt and cayenne pepper. Put them 



58 SAVOUKV DISf/ES OF FISH. 



together with then- liquor and a small piece of 
butter into a stew-pan, allow them to get warm ; 
take out the oysters, put them to drain. Grill the 
oysters on both sides to a light brown colour, but 
do not let them get overdone. Thicken the liquor 
with a little bechamel sauce, season wdth cayenne 
and grated nutmeg ; dish up the oysters. Sauce 
round the dish with the liquor, garnish with 
sippets of fried or toasted bread, and sprigs of 
fresh or fried parsley, and serve. 

DEVILLED OYSTERS, STEWED. 

IxafjoCit cVIIiufres a la Diahlc 

Choose twelve fine large oj^sters, open, drain and 
trim, chop them rather coarsely, and put into a 
stew-pan with a tablespoonful of cream, a small 
piece of butter, and some chopped parsley. Season 
with salt, pepper, and plent}^ of cayenne ; stir over 
the fire for a few minutes, thicken with a spoon- 
ful of bechamel sauce, bind with two yolks of eggs, 
let it remain over the fire whilst stirring, until it 
sets. Have ready the deep shells of the oysters, 
cleaned and perfectly dry ; fill them with the 
mixture, sprinkle with bread crumbs, bake in the 
oven for a few minutes, dish up on a folded napkin, 
garnish with parsle}^, and serve. 

DEVILLED OYSTERS, GRILLED. 

HuUrcs grilU'ea a la Diablo. 

Open, drain and trim some large oysters, season 
with salt, pepper and plenty of cayenne. Dip 
them in oiled butter, put on to a gridiron and broil 
for about five minutes. Dish up on a round dish, 
garnish with rings of lemon, fried croutons, and 
parsley. 



OYSTERS IN THEIR SHEIIS, DUMAS STYIE. 59 



OYSTER FRITTERS. 

Be iy nets aux HuUres. 

Parboil some oysters, beard them, drain on a 
cloth, season with salt and pepper ; let them stand 
for ten minutes. Dip in prepared frying batter, fry 
in boiling fat or lard to a golden colour, drain the 
fritters on a cloth, dish up in a p^'ramidal form on 
a folded napkin, garnish with parsley, and serve. 

LITTLE OYSTER SOUFFLEES. 
Les Petites Soiifflees cV HuUres. 

Procure one dozen sauce oysters, blanch and 
beard them, strain the juice into a basin, and 
mince the oysters rather coarsely. Dissolve one 
ounce of butter in a stew-pan, add an ounce of 
flour, stir until the flour is cooked ; add rather 
more than a gill of hot milk and the oyster liquor, 
stir well, season with salt and cayenne, strain 
through a fine sieve or strainer, and return to 
the stew-pan. Now add the minced oysters, and 
stir in gradually two yolks of eggs ; stir over the 
fire until the eggs begin to set. Remove the stew- 
pan from the fire, beat up three whites of egg to 
a stiff froth, and mix gently with the preparation. 
Fill up some soufflee cases about three parts full, 
sprinkle a few fried bread crumbs on top of each, 
also a few drops of oiled butter, and bake in a 
moderate oven from ten to twelve mintites. 



STYLE. 

CoquiUes (VHiutres a la Dumas. 

Dissolve two ounces of butter in a stew-pan, add 
a teaspoonful of chopped parsley and a dessert- 



6o SAVOURY DISHES OF FISH. 



spoonful of chopped morels : put in one dozen 
trimmed oysters with their liquor, season with a 
little salt, a pinch of ca3^enne and a pinch of grated 
nutmeg. When the oysters are warm add one 
hard-boiled egg cut into slices, illlow the whole to 
simmer for five minutes, and fill the oyster shells 
with this. Cover each with a mixture of fresh 
bread crumbs and Parmesan cheese, and sprinkle 
with a few drops of oiled butter ; colour them with 
a hot salamander, dish up, garnish with parsle}^, 
and serve quickly. 

OYSTER CROQUETS, WELLINGTON STYLE. 

Croquettes cVIIuitrcs a la Wellington. 

Chop finely half a pound of the inside of cooked 
loin of mutton with a quarter of a pound of beef 
suet, parboil half a pint or more of sauce oysters, 
dress, trim, and chop likewise. Mix with the 
mutton and suet, season with salt, pepper, ground 
mace, cayenne, and lemon juice ; add one raw egg, 
well beaten, and some chopped jDarsley. Shape 
into balls, or cork shapes ; egg and bread crumb 
them, fry in hot fat or clarified butter, drain on a 
cloth, dish up, garnish with fried parsley, and 
serve. 

OYSTER CREPINETTES. 

Creplnettes mix Hint res. 

Blanch a dozen or more oysters in their own 
liquor, strain and trim them, and cut into small 
slices. Dissolve a small piece of butter in a stew- 
pan, stir in an ounce of flour, add the oysters, 
season with pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg, 
flavour with some lemon juice and chopped pars- 



FRIED FROGS, FREXCH STYLE. 6i 

ley ; stir over the fire for a few minutes, thicken 
with two or three yolks of eggs. Spread the 
mixture on a dish to get cold. When quite cold, 
divide it into neat oblong shapes, wrap these up 
tightly in thin slices of bacon, or pig's caul. Dip 
one by one in prepared batter, fry them in hot 
lard or fat to a light brown colour, drain well on 
a cloth, dish up on a folded napkin, garnish with 
parsley, and serve. 

OYSTER PATTIES, CORDON ROUGE. 

Petlts Pates cVHaitres a la Conlon rouge. 

Line some small deep patty pans with puff 
paste, put a teaspoonful of cream in each, sprinkle 
with chopped parsley and a little tarragon and 
chervil, and season with ground mace, cayenne, 
and grated nutmeg to taste. Put two whole 
oysters, trimmed, in each of the patties, sprinkle 
with a little finely chopped lemon rind and some 
lemon juice, moisten with a little white wine, 
cover with some bread crumbs, garnish the tops 
with a ring of puff paste, place on baking sheets, 
and bake in a quick oven. Serve as soon as they 
are done on a dish garnished with sprigs of water- 
cresses. 

Great care should be taken so as not to allow 
the gravy to dry away, which is most delicious if 
served quickly. 

FRIED FROGS, FRENCH STYLE. 

Grenoiiilka f rites a la Francaise. 

Procure about two dozen dressed frogs of even 
size, pare off the feet, wash well and dress neatly, 
which is best effected by inserting the stump 



62 SAVOURY DISHES OF FISH. 

end of each leg along the shin of the other 
leg. Wipe them with a cloth, place them on dish, 
season Avith pepper and salt, sprinkle with a little 
chopped parsley, olive oil, and lemon juice. Stand 
the dish on the ice for half an hour. Have ready 
some frying batter ; dip each into the batter, and 
fry a nice light brown in hot fat or clarified 
butter; drain, dish up, garnish with fried parsley, 
and serve. 

ANGELS ON HORSEBACK. 

Lqs Anges a Cheral. 

Stamp out some round pieces of bread, about 
a quarter an inch thick and two inches in dia- 
meter, fry them a nice light colour in clarified 
butter, spread over one side with anchovy paste. 
Place on this a piece of crisp, streaky bacon, the 
same size as the croutons. Trim and beard as many 
oysters as 3^ou have croutons, place one on top of 
each prepared crouton, sprinkle with oiled butter, 
a few drops of lemon juice, and a little chopped 
parsley. Dust with cayenne pepper, and set in 
a hot oven, just long enough to warm the o^-ster 
through. Dish up in rows, pour the oyster liquor 
previously heated round the croutons, and serve 
quickly. 

Another way is to wrap each oyster, after being 
seasoned, in a thin small slice of bacon, when they 
are put on skewers and grilled over a clear fire ; 
they are then placed on rounds of buttered toast, 
and served. 

COCKLE PATTIES, AMERICAN STYLE. 
Petttes Boiichees de Bucardes a VAinencaine. 

Put as many prepared cockles as you require 
into a stew-pan, add sufficient rich white sauce 



FILLETS OF BLOATERS WITH CHEESE. 63 



to cover the cockles, season with cayenne and salt, 
add a little essence of anchov}^ to flavour. Let all 
simmer for a few minutes, and fill up some patty- 
cases, which have been previous^ lined with puff 
paste crust. Bake in a moderate oven, and serve. 

KIPPERED HERRING, SCOTCH STYLE. 

liar en (J fu mi: a VEcoasaise. 

Cut off the head and tail of smoked herrings, 
dust both sides with flour, spread on a well-greased 
gridiron and broil over a sharp fire. Season with 
black pepper, dish up and serve with a small piece 
of butter on each fish. 

Yarmouth hloaters are prepared in the same 
manner. After the}' have been split down the 
back, a thick captain's biscuit or a brown bread 
biscuit, made hot, is usually served with either. 

SMOKED HERRINGS BRUXELLOISE. 

Harcugs fumes a la Bruxellohe. 

Skin, split and bone four smoked herrings, place 
the fillets in a well-buttered saucepan, sprinkle 
with chopped mushrooms, parsley, chives, sa- 
voury herbs and shallots ; season with white 
pepper and cayenne. Put a few small pieces of 
butter here and there on the fillets, strew over 
some fine bread crumbs, broil in the oven until 
done. Dish up neatly on a dish, garnish with 
slices of lemon and water-cresses. 

FILLETS OF BLOATERS WITH CHEESE. 

Filets de Harengs fumes au Fromage. 

Skin two large-sized bloaters, split them down 
the back, remove the fillets from the bones, place 



64 SAVOURY DISHES OF FISH, 



them on the gridiron, over, or before the fire, and 
broil until nearly tender ; then dip them in oiled 
butter, crumb in grated Parmesan cheese. Have 
ready some hot buttered pieces of toasted bread, 
cut them in convenient sliapes, place a fillet on 
each, put them on a dish, sprinkle with a few- 
fried bread crumbs, place in a hot oven for a 
few minutes, dish up, garnish with parsley, and 
serve. 

HERRING FRITTERS, ALLEMANDE. 

Belynets de Filets de Harenys a VAllemaiide. 

Skin and fillet two smoked herrings, cut these 
into neat pieces, put them in a deep disJi, season 
with pepper and lemon juice, moisten with a little 
oil, prepare a thick batter with flour, eggs and 
milk ; drop in the pieces of fillets, fry them in 
boiling fat or lard to a light brown colour, dish 
up on a folded napkin, garnish with fried parsley, 
and serve. 

SMOKED COD'S ROE CROUTONS. 

Laitence de Cahillaiul fume sur CroiUonts. 

Soak the cod's roe in a marinade or water for a 
few hours, wipe, dry, and cut into slices; broil these 
lightly in butter. Have ready some rounds of 
fried bread, place the slices of roe on them, dish 
up on a dish, sprinkle with white pepper, a little 
cayenne, and tne juice of half a lemon : garnish 
with parslej', and serve. 



Savour? fiDeat ©iebc^. 



MEAT CROQUETS. 

Croquettes de Yiande. 

Croquets, or savour}^ rolls, can be made from the 
remains of an}^ kind of cold meat — mutton, veal, 
beef, pork, poultry, or game. Free the meat from 
bone, fat or gristle, mince it very finely, season 
with salt, pepper, spice and savoury herbs ; add a 
handful of soft bread crumbs to a pound of meat ; 
two eggs, well beaten, and sufficient bechamel 
sauce to form a salpicon. Spread the mixture on 
a dish and set to cool. Shape in any desired forms, 
dust with flour, egg and bread crumb them ; let 
them stand for a short time, then fry in fat or 
lard to a light brown colour. 

Drain on a cloth, dish up on a plain napkin, 
garnish with fried parslej^, and serve. 

CHICKEN CROQUETS. 

Croquettes de VolaUle. 

Take the remains of any fowl or turke}-, re- 
move carefully all the skin and gristle, pick 
the meat from the bones, mince it up finely with 
half the quantity of ham and tongue; add a 
handful of whito bread crumbs. Melt a piece of 

s.D. ^■'■'' F 



66 SA VOUR V ME A T DISHES. 



butter in a stew-pan, fry in it a finely chopped 
shallot. Stir in the mince, season with pepper, 
salt and grated nutmeg, add a little bechamel or 
any other white sauce, the yolk of two or three 
eggs, according to the quantity used. Stir over 
the fire until it sets. Pour out on a flat dish, 
and set to cool. When cold, form some shapes 
of balls, cutlets, or corks, all of even size, dip 
them in egg and bread crumbs, fry in clarified 
fat, drain, dish up on a napkin or dish paper, 
garnish with parsley, and serve. 



SAVOUBY MEAT ROLLS. 

Pettts Pates de Yiande aux fines Herhes. 

Mince up finely the remains of any cold 
meat, freed from fat, skin and gristle, together 
with a proportionate quantity of ham or tongue. 
Season the mince with salt, pepper and grated nut- 
meg, moisten with a little sauce. To each half 
pound of meat take a pound of mashed potatoes, 
mix with a little flour and a yolk or two of eggs, 
to form a stiff paste. Roll out the potato paste 
about a quarter of an inch in thickness, cut it 
into oblong pieces, about four inches long, and 
two inches across. Pat a dessertspoonful of the 
minced meat upon each piece, sprinkle with a little 
chopped parsley ; turn over the paste, so that the 
edges overlap, press down the ends firmly, brush 
the tops with beaten eggs, sprinkle with crushed 
vermicelli. Place the rolls on a buttered baking 
sheet, bake in a hot oven until of a light brown 
colour, dish up neatly on a folded napkin or dish 
paper, garnish with parsley, and serve. 



VENISON RISSOLES. 67 

CHICKEN CROUSTADES. 

Petitos Croiistades de Volatile. 

Prepare a salpicon of minced chicken or 
turke}^, and ham or tongue, with a stiff white 
sauce. Have some small French rolls cut in halves 
lengthways ; scoop out some of the soft parts of 
the interior, insert the chicken salpicon. Cover 
over with a little white sauce, sprinkle with 
fresh bread crumbs, chopped parsley and grated 
Parmesan cheese ; brush over with oiled butter. 
Place in the oven for twent}^ minutes, dish up, 
and serve as hot as possible. 

VENISON CROQUETS. 

Croquettes de Chevreull. 

Mince finely some slices of cold venison ; to 
each half-pound of meat add a quarter of a pound 
of mashed potatoes, two ounces of fine bread 
crumbs, a tablespoonful of chopped parsley, a 
minced shallot, and some savoury herbs. Season 
with salt and pepper, mix with three yolks of 
eggs ; stir over the fire with a piece of butter, to 
form a salpicon ; set it to get cold. Then form 
into croquet shapes, egg and bread crumbs, fry 
in boiling fat or lard, drain, dish up on a folded 
napkin, garnish with fried parsley, and serve with 
a pohrade sauce. 

VENISON RISSOLES. 

Bissoles de Chevreuil. 

Roll out some puff paste or second paste, stamp 
out circles ; la}^ a teaspoonful of prepared venison 
salpicon in the centre, brush the edges with beaten 



68 SAVOURY MEAT DISHES. 



Qg^ or water, fold over to form a half-circle, press 
the edges together; brush over Avith egg, crumb 
with bread crumbs, or crushed vermicelli ; fry in 
fat to a light brown colour, dish up, garnish with 
parsle}^ and serve. 

MARROW TIT-BITS. 

Bomieti-Bouchos a la MoiHlr\ 

Take the marrow from two bones, cut it into 
small dice, put it into a stew-pan with sufficient 
water to bJanch ; drain oft' the water and add a 
small handful of fresh bread crumbs, a dessert- 
spoonful of chopped stoned olives, the juice of half 
a lemon, a teaspoonful of chopped parsle3% a pinch 
of grated nutmeg, and a dust of cayenne. Roll 
out about half a pound of good puft' paste, a 
quarter of an inch thick, stamp cut some rounds 
w^ith a circular cutter, alDOut two inches in dia- 
meter ; place them on a baking sheet, dip a 
smaller round cutter in hot water and stamp 
half-way through the paste, to form the lids, 
brush over Avith beaten egg^ and bake for about 
fifteen minutes. Cut out the lid, and scoop 
out the inside whilst warm. Put the above de- 
scribed mixture in a saucepan over the fire, add 
a gill of brown sauce and a glass of Madeira wine; 
allow it to boil for five minutes, and fill the cases 
with it. Replace the lids, dish up in a pyramidal 
form, garnish with parsley, and serve. 

CHICKEN AND HAM TIT-BITS. 

BoiviC'S-Bouches de VohdUc ft Jamhon. 

Cut some thin slices of bread, stamp nut some 
rounds with a plain circular cutter, about an inch 



S.-^l'0L7^y GAME PATTIES. 69 

and a lialf in diameter; fry these in clarified bntter 
a light colour, drain on a cloth. Cut half a pound of 
chicken meat and three ounces of ham into small 
dice, put it into a stew-pan Avith one dessertspoon- 
ful of curry paste and two tablespoonfuls of 
white sauce ; season with a little cayenne pepper, 
and bring it to a boil. Spread one side of the 
rounds of fried bread with this preparation, place 
two together like sandwiches, and place them on a 
baking sheet. Prepare a mixture with two ounces 
of grated Gruyere cheese, one and a half ounce of 
butter, and a teaspoonful of curry powder : mix it 
into a smooth paste, and shape as man}' balls as 
you have prepared rounds. Place one ball in the 
centre of each, put them in a quick oven fur 
five minutes, pile up on a rlish and serve. 

SAVOURY MARROW. 

Moi'llo lie BoRuf aiix fines nerh:'s. 
Break up two good beef bones, extract the mar- 
row, cut it into square dice, and put to soak in 
water for two hours. Bring the pieces to a boil 
over a quick fire, take them out to drain; dress 
them on small pieces of buttered toast ; break 
them with a fork, so as to spread the marrow over 
the surface of each piece of bread ; season with 
salt, pepper, cayenne, and lemon juice: sprinkle 
with chopped parsley and chives. Dish up neatly, 
brown a little with a hot salamander, garnish 
with fried parsley, and serve. 

SAVOURY GAME PATTIES, CORDON ROUGE 
STYLE. 

rdlts Fati's de Glbler a la Cordon rouge. 
Pound in a mortar some cold game previousl}^ 
freed from bones and skin. Season with pepper, 



SAVOURY MEAT DISHES. 



salt, grated nutmeg, and lemon juice. When fine 
enough rub through a wire sieve, mix with some 
rich brown sauce, and bind with one 'or two raw 
yolks of egg^ according to the quantity. Line 
some small patty moulds with puff paste trimming, 
or second paste; fill these with the above mixture, 
cover them over with a small quantity of whipped 
white of egg, which has had incorporated some 
lemon juice. Smooth them over neatly w^ith a 
knife, bake in the oven to a bright golden colour, 
dress them on a dish, covered with a folded nap- 
kin or dish paper, and garnish with small fried 
onion rings. 

SMALL GAME SOUFFLES. 

Petits Souffles de Gibier. 

Take some cold game, remove all the meat 
from the bones and sldn ; put it in a mortar and 
pound with a small handful of cooked rice, an 
ounce of fresh butter and half a gill of rich brown 
sauce, and a teaspoonful dissolved meat glaze. Sea- 
son with salt, pepper, grated nutmeg, powdered 
sweet herbs, bind with one or tw^o yolks of raw 
eggs. Rub all through a sieve ; mix in gently the 
whites of one or two eggs whipped to a stiff foam. 
Put the mixture in some well-greased timbale 
moulds, and bake them in a quick oven, turn out 
on a dish. Sauce round with some game sauce or 
poivrade sauce, sprinkle with parsley, and serve. 

GAME FBITTEHS. 
Beignets de Gihier, 

Take a pound of meat from any kind of roast 
game— grouse, pheasant, partridge, etc. — freed 



GRILLED KIDNEYS, INDIAN STYLE. 



from skin and gristle, chop np finely with half a 
dozen mushrooms, three shallots, the rind of half 
a lemon. Season with salt, pepper, grated nutmeg, 
sweet thyme and marjoram ; mix thoroughly, then 
add four eggs to form a stiff paste. Shape the 
mixture into balls, or cork shapes, egg and bread 
crumb them, or dip in prepared batter, and fry in 
hot fat or clarified butter. Drain well, dish up 
on a folded napkin, garnish with fried parsley, and 
serve. 

SWEETBREAD PATTIES, ALLEMANDE. 

retlts Pdt('S de lilz de Veau d VAUemande. 

Blanch one or two small sweetbreads in salt 
and water, cut into small dice, broil in butter, 
add some chopped shallots, parsley, a tablespoou- 
ful of flour ; season with salt, pepper, grated 
nutmeg, and lemon juice, also a little cayenne to 
taste ; let it simmer for a few minutes. Moisten 
with a little white sauce, or supreme sauce, fill 
the mixture into small puff paste cases, put on 
their covers, dish up on a folded napkin, and 
serve. 

GRILLED KIDNEYS INDIAN STYLE. 

liOgnons do Mouton a VIndienne. 

Split the kidneys open, run a skewer through 
them, to prevent curling when cooking; lard the 
inside with thin strips of bacon. Season with 
salt and pepper, brush over with oiled butter, 
broil them on a gridiron over a bright fire. When 
done, sprinkle with curry powder, dish up on 
pieces of toasted bread, remove the skewer, squeeze 
some lemon juice over each, garnish with sippets 
of toasted bread, and serve. 



72 SJ VO UR Y ME A T DISHES. 

DEVILLED MEATS. 

il/ef.S" de Ylande a la Diahle. 

Cut some thin slices of cold meat — the remains 
of any kind will do — pnt them in a deep dish, and 
saturate with the following : a wineglassful of 
claret, the juice of half a lemon, a teaspoonful of 
oil, one of chilli vinegar, one of hot Worcestershire 
sauce, one of mushroom ketchup. Season with 
a pinch of mustard, some pepper, grated nutmeg, 
salt, and cayenne to taste. Put a few small pieces 
of butter here and there on the top. Set the dish 
in a hot oven for twenty minutes, and serve. 

CROUSTADES OF KIDNEY, REFORM STYLE. 

Croilstades dc Kognoiis a la Ri'^furme. 

Carve out of stale white bread some small 
boats, fry them in hot fat to a golden colour, and 
put them to drain. Slice the kidney finely, sea- 
son with salt and pepper, sprinkle with a little 
tlour, broil lightly in butter ; add a little lemon 
juice to flavour, fill the fried croustades with the 
kidney, cover them with some hot white sauce 
in which the yolk of an egg has been incorporated ; 
dress them neatly on a dish, sprinkle with chopped 
parsley. Garnish the dish with pickled button 
mushrooms and slices of gherkins, place it in the 
oven for a few minutes to get thoroughly hot, and 
serve. 

SAVOURY SOUFFLES, SALISBURY STYLE. 

^"^'ffl''-"^ -^acoui^'UX' a la Salisbury. 

Mince finely about half a pound of any kind of 
game, freed from skin and bones ; add to it an 
ounce of finely chopped ham. Melt an ounce of 



DEVILLED BEEF TONGUE. 



fresh butter in a stew-pan, and fry the mince a 
little ; add four mushrooms, two shallots, all 
chopped finely; also a teaspoonful of chopped 
parsley and one large tablespoonfnl of brown 
sauce ; season with pepper, salt, a pinch of 
ground mace, and cayenne. E;ub all through a 
wire sieve. Put the mince in a small stew-pan, 
stir in two yolks and two small chopped truffles ; 
beat the whites of three eggs to a stiff froth, and 
mix lightly. Fill some paper cases with this 
preparation, and bake in a moderate oven for 
about ten minutes ; dish up as soon as done, and 
serve quickly. 

DEVILLED CHICKEN LIVER. 

Fok de Volatile a la Diablo. 

Pound the cooked livers of two turkej^s or three 
fowls, mix it with some prepared mustard, salt, 
cayenne, a tablespoonful of anchovy essence, and 
a little butter; work it into a smooth paste, spread 
on hot buttered toast, hold the salamander over it 
for a few seconds to get thoroughly hot. Cut it 
into convenient pieces, dish up, garnish with 
parsley, and serve. 

DEVILLED BEEF TONGUE. 

Langue de Bwiif a Ja Dlahlc. 

Mince up an}^ remains of beef tongue with 
the fat, season with plenty of white pepper and 
cayenne, mix with a few chopped mushrooms. Cut 
some slices of French rolls, toast them lightly on 
both sides, dip them in a mixture of claret and 
beaten egg ; sprinkle the slices with grated nut- 
meg and ca3^enne, lay a heap of tougue on the 



74 SA VOUR V ME A T DISHES. 



top, place a button mushroom in the centre of 
each, cover over with scalded cream, warm up in 
a quick oven, dish up and serve quickly. 

TONGUE TOAST. 

Chop the remains of a tongue finely, mix with 
it the 3'Olk of an egg^ a little cream, and some 
chopped parsley, season with a little salt and 
grated nutmeg, heat up in a stew-pan. Spread 
this over some slices of hot buttered toast, 
sprinkle with bread crumbs, cut the slices into 
fingers of equal sizes, let them brown before the 
fire. Dish up on a folded napkin, or dish paper, 
garnish with parsley, and serve. 

HAM FRITTERS. 

Beignefs de Jamhon. 

Mince some slices of ham with a due proportion 
of its fat quite fine. Mix with each half a pound 
of ham, one egg, a small handful of bread crumbs, 
and a little cream. Season with some white pepper 
and a little cayenne to taste. Cut some small 
slices of French rolls, soak them in milk and egg 
for a little while, fry them lightly in hot butter, 
drain on a cloth, spread over both sides thickly 
with the ham mixture, dip in beaten egg and 
fried bread crumbs. Place them in a wire basket 
and fry for ten minutes in clarified butter ; drain, 
dish up on a folded napkin, garnish with crisped 
parsley, and serve. 

SAVOURY HAM PATTIES. 

retltcs Boiichces de Jamhon. 

Grate half a pound of the lean shank part of 
cooked ham. Mix with this a gill of whipped 



SAVOURY TOAST {COLD MEAT). 



cream, season with pepper, ground mace, and a 
little cayenne to taste ; bind with a 3'olk of ^gg. 
Fill some small puff paste cases with this, place 
them in a hot oven for a few minutes to get hot 
through, cover them, dish up on a folded napkin 
or dish paper, garnish with fresh parsley or 
sprigs of watercresses, and serve. 

HAM TOAST, No. 1. 

Croutons de Jamhon. 

Mince a quarter of a pound of lean ham quite 
fine, mix it with a small piece of butter and two 
yolks of eggs; season with pepper and a little cay- 
enne. Set the mixture over the fire in a stew- 
pan, stir until it sets, then spread on some slices 
of buttered toast, cut the toast in convenient 
pieces, dish up and serve hot. 

HAM TOAST, No. 2. 

Croiitons de Jamhon. 

Chop a quarter of a pound of lean ham very 
fine, put in a stew-pan with a pat of fresh butter, 
a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, a little chopped 
chives, and the yolk of one egg., season with 
white and red pepper to taste, add a teaspoonful 
of cream, stir it over the fire until it begins to 
thicken, spread the mixture on some croutons of 
toasted bread, dish up in the form of a pyramid. 
Garnish with parsley and rings of lemon, and 
serve. 

SAVOURY TOAST (COLD MEAT). 

Chop finely the remains of cold beef, mutton, or 
veal, add a little chopped ham cr tongue, put it 



76 SAIVURV MEAT DISHES. 



into a stew-pan with sufficient white sauce to 
moisten ; season with salt, pepper, grated nutmeg 
and a pinch of ca3^enne, and allow it to get 
thoroughly hot. Beat up the 3'olks of two eggs, 
and add. Stir until it begins to set, but do not 
let it hoil. Have ready one or two slices of 
buttered toast, well trimmed of crust ; put the 
mince on it in a heap, smooth it a little with a 
knife. Beat u]) the white of one egg to a stiff 
froth, and cover the top neatly with it ; sprinkle 
over with a few fried bread crumbs, and a pinch 
of cayenne pepper. Stand it in a hot oven for 
five minutes to colour the top, and serve quickly. 

CROUTES OF CHICKEN, DEVILLED. 

C routes de VolaUle a la Dlahle. 

Prepare twelve round pieces of bread, about 
half an inch deep, stamp out the centre with a 
small plain cutter, scoop out as much crumb as 
possible. Fr}^ these in clarified butter, and drain 
on a cloth. Chop about six ounces of cold chicken 
meat, three ounces of ham or tongue, put it in a 
st3W-pan with half an ounce of butter, a teaspoon- 
ful of chopped parsley, a pinch of curry powder, 
and a dust of cayenne pepper. Heat the mixtui-e 
over the fire, fill the croiites, glaze the tops with 
dissolved meat glaze, put them in a hot oven for 
a few seconds, and serve. 

SAVOURY MARROW ON TOAST. 

Mol'Uc cu'x fines llcrh.'s siir CroCites. 

Extract the marrow out of two beef bones, cut 
it into small squares of oven size, blanch it, strain 
and drain. Have ready some slices of buttered 



DE I VL L ED 7 URKE 3 '. 



toast, spread over with anchovy paste, cut it into 
neat squares or rounds, place two or three pieces 
of marrow on each piece of toast, break it with 
a fork, sprinkle with a mixture of chopped pars- 
ley and chives, season with salt and a dust of 
cayenne pepper. Bake in a quick oven for five 
minutes. Sprinkle over a few drops of liquid meat 
glaze, and serve. 

DEVILLED TURKEY. 

Cuhi<e (Jp Dinde a la DiahJp. 

Trim the legs of a cold turkey, immerse in 
oiled butter, sprinkle with ca3"enne pepper, cuny 
powder, and salt, spread over with a mixture 
of one tablespoonful of Worcestershire sauce, four 
of thick white sauce, one of anchovy sauce, and 
a teaspoonful of made mustard. AVhen set, egg 
and bread crumb ; ivy in hot fat or lard, or bake 
in a quick oven for fifteen minutes; dish up, 
garnish with parsle}^, and serve. 



Savoury ©i^bee of \Dcgctable6, 



TOMATOES WITH CHEESE. 

Tomates au Fromagc. 

Slice some tomatoes, season tliem with pepper, 
salt, and a little caj^enne. Dip these in white of 
egg, and crumb with grated Parmesan cheese. 
Place the slices on a buttered baking sheet or 
saute pan, cover them with a piece of buttered 
paper, and bake for eighteen minutes. Have 
ready some cooked macaroni, broken up in small 
pieces, and cooked in milk. Dress the macaroni in 
the shape of a border on a dish, and pile up the 
baked tomatoes in the centre; sprinkle the border 
with finel}^ chopped parsley, garnish with a few 
small fried bread croutons, and serve. 

TOMATOES ON TOAST. 

Tomates sur Pain yrille. 

Cut six ripe tomatoes in thick slices, put these 
in a single layer in a buttered saute pan or 
baking-tin, season with pepper and salt, and a 
little lemon juice; strew some white bread crumbs 
over them, put a small piece of butter on each of 
the slices, and bake in a hot oven for fifteen 
minutes. Prepare some neatly shaped pieces of 
buttered toast, on which you dress the tomatoes 



STUFFED TOMATOES, GOURMET STYLE. 79 

when baked ; dish up, and ponr the grav}^ out of 
the saute pan over the dish. 

TOMATOES, GRATIK" STYLE. 

Tomates au G ratin. 

Scald some tomatoes, peel them, cut them in 
halves. Rub a gratin dish with a piece of garlic, 
butter it well, la}^ the tomatoes in the dish, season 
with salt and pepper. Strew over them some 
fine bread crumbs, chopped parsley, and chopped 
mushrooms. Put a small piece of loutter here and 
there, bake in a brisk oven for about fifteen 
minutes, and serve. 

TOMATO FRITTERS. 

Be ig nets de Tomates. 

Cut some tomatoes into slices, season witli 
pepper and salt, spread some potted meat — either 
tongue, ham, beef, or game — on one slice, cover 
with another. Dip the slices in flour, then egg 
and crumb them. Place them gently in a frying 
basket, and fry in hot fat or clarified butter. 
Drain, and dish up in a heap, garnish with fried 
parsley, and serve. 

STUFFED TOMATOES, GOURMET STYLE. 

Tomates f aretes a la Gourmet. 

Take six ripe, even-sized tomatoes, cut off the 
tops, scoop out the insides, rub the pulp through 
a fine wire sieve. "With this prepare the stuffing, 
adding two ounces of fresh butter, three table- 
spoonfuls of fine white bread crumbs, six finely 
chopped mushrooms, and a little chopped parsley, 



8o SAVOURY DISHEi^ OF VEGETABLES. 



or chives. Season with salt, pepper, and cay- 
enne. Stir the mixture over the hre, until warm 
through, then bind with two yolks of raw eggs 
and a little cream. 

Fill the tomatoes with the stuffing thus pre- 
pared. Place them side by side in a well-buttered 
saute pan. Strew over some bread crumbs, and 
bake them in a brisk oven for ten to fifteen 
minutes. Hold the salamander or a red-hot shovel 
over them, if not brown enough on the top. Dish 
them up quickh^ ; sauce round with a piquant 
sauce, and serve. 



BAKED TOMATOES. 

Slice six tomatoes, season with pepper and salt. 
Place them in a buttered baking tin, sprinkle bread 
crumbs over them, put a small piece of butter 
here and there on top. Bake them in a hot 
oven for about twenty minutes, and serve. 



TOMATOES, REFORM STYLE. 

TomafoH a la lh''f()rmp. 

Cut some strips of larding bacon, cooked ham, 
tongue, harrl-boiled egg^ and truffles, the thickness 
of fine straws, and about an inch and a quarter 
long. Take some ripe, firm, and even-sized to- 
matoes, remove the stalks and green parts from 
them. Lard these with the above cut strips, 
place them side by side in a buttered saute pan, 
bake them in a moderate oven till broAvn, serve 
them withpoivrade or Perigord sauce (poured over 
the tomatoes I. 



SrUfFED POTATOES. Si 



TOMATO SAVOURY. 

Toiaatas auj: fines IR-rhcs. 

Scald six ripe tomatoes, remove tlie skin, place 
them on a buttered saute pan, and bake until 
tender: rub them through a wire sieve. Dissolve 
half an ounce of butter in a stew-pan, in wdiich 
you frv two fine chopped shallots ; add one ounce 
of finely chopped ham. one dessertspoonful chopped 
parsley, the tomato mash, one ounce of fresh bread 
crumbs, and one ounce of grated cheese. Stir all 
well together over a clear fire, season wdth salt, 
white pepper, and a dust of cayenne. Beat up 
two eggs, add to the mixture, and stir until set. 
Place on hot buttered toast, sprinkle with grated 
Parmesan cheese, and serve. 



STUFFED POTATOES. 

Fommcs (Je Torre fare tea . 

Choose some even-sized, red-skinned kidney 
potatoes, boil them in their jackets, and let them 
get cold. Mince up finely an}^ kind of cold fish, 
put it in a mortar with a piece of butter, a 
spoonful of cream and a yolk of ^g(^. Season with 
pepper, salt, add a little chopped parsley, and 
pound well together. 

Cut the cold potatoes in halves lengthways, 
scoop out carefully a portion of each half, insert 
the prepared stuffing, place two halves together. 
When filled, dip them m frying butter, and fry in 
hot fat or clarified butter, drain on a cloth, dish 
up on a napkin, garnish with crisped parsley, and 
serve. 

S.D. G 



82 SAVOURY DISHES OF VEGETABLES 

POTATO CROQUETS. 

Croquettes de Pommes clt Terre. 

Peel and cut into quarters six or more pota- 
toes, boil, drain and mash them thoroughly in the 
stew-pan. Rub them through a sieve, put them 
back into the stew-pan, and mix with a little milk 
or cream, a small piece of butter, four yolks of 
eggs ; season with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. 
Set the stew-pan over the fire for a few minutes. 
Stir well, and spread the puree on a dish to cool. 
When cool enough, shape some croquets, roll 
with fine white bread crumbs; dip each croquet 
in beaten egg^ then in crumbs, and fry them a 
delicate brown in hot fat or clarified butter. 
Drain them on a cloth, dish up on a folded nap- 
kin, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. 

POTATOES, BONNE-FEMME STYLE. 

Pommes de Terre a la Bonne-feynme. 

Boil twelve large-sized potatoes in their jackets ; 
when cold, peel and cut them into slices. Put 
them in a stew-pan with a piece of butter, a pinch 
of sweet mixed herbs, and half a gill of milk ; season 
w^tli salt, pepper, grated nutmeg, a little chopped 
parsley and shallot. Let all simmer gently for 
ten minutes, stirring from time to time, to prevent 
burning. When ready for dishing up, squeeze 
the juice of half a lemon over the potatoes. 

POTATO SCALLOPS. 

Coquilles de Pommes de Terre. 

Peel and boil twelve potatoes, drain and rub 
them through a wire sieve ; put into a stew-pan. 



SAVOURY POTATOES, STUFFED. 



Stir in a small piece of butter, two table spoonfuls 
of cream, a tablespoonful of parsley, two yolks of 
raw eggs ; season with pepper and salt. Butter 
some scallop shells, dust them with fine bread 
crumbs, fill the shells with the potato mixture, 
smooth the top with a knife, brush over with 
oiled butter, strew over with white bread crum^bs 
and grated cheese. Bake in a quick oven a deli- 
cate brown, and serve the shells on a dish with 
a folded napkin. A piquant or poivrade sauce 
should be served separately with the scallops. 

POTATO PANCAKES WITH CHEESE. 

Crepes cle Pommes <1p Torre an Fromage. 

Grate six large raw peeled potatoes, moisten 
with a small cupful of milk, mix with three yolks 
of raw eggs, a piece of butter about the size of a 
walnut, a handful of bread crumbs ; season with 
salt and pepper. x\dd a handful of grated cheese 
and a little ilour to make a nice smooth batter. 
Fry in an omelet pan, with rather more butter 
than generally used for pancakes. When baked 
on each side, dust with grated Swiss or Cheddar 
cheese, fold them, dish up on a folded napkin- or 
dish paper, and garnish with fried parsley. 

SAVOURY POTATOES, STUFFED. 

Pommes de Terre farcis aux fines Herhes. 

Rasp twelve medium-sized round potatoes, cut 
off a small piece of the top of one side of the 
potatoes, scoop out the centre, but be careful not 
to break them. Next prepare a stuffiug with a 
mixture of bread crumbs, chopped parsley, thyme, 
chives, and shallot ; season with salt and pepper, 



84 SA I 'O UR V DISHES OF I '£ GE J A BLES. 

moisten with a spuonful of cream and a 3'olk of 
egg. Fill the potatoes with this stuliing, phiee 
them in a buttered saute pau, side by side, brush 
them witii oiled butter, and bake them in a 
moderate oven for tvrenty minutes. 

CUimiED POTATOES. 

rommes de Torre an Kari 

Cat up twelve cold boiled potatoes, slice a large 
onion, and fr}^ it in a little butter in a fr^^ing-pan. 
Add the potatoes, season with salt, dredge well 
with curry powder, moisten with a little stock, 
and the juice of half a lemou. Shake the pan 
well over the fire, and let it stew for fifteen 
minutes ; then serve as hot as possible. 

POTATO FRITTEES. 

Bi'igncta de Pomiiits de Terre. 

Boil six good-sized potatoes, mash, aud rub 
through a sieve, mix with half a pint of miik, a 
little cream, three yolks of eggs, a handful of 
bread crumbs, a tablespoonful of grated Cheddar 
cheese, a httle flour, a small piece of butter, and 
season with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. 
Stir up well. Dro]) from the spoon and fry in 
clarified butter or fat to a rich brown colour, 
drain on a cloth, or shake well in a frying basket ; 
dish up on paper or napkin, garnish with crisped 
parsley, and serve. 

BROILED POTATOES, A LA MAIRE. 

romv.tes do Terre a la Malre. 

Choose a quantity of long, red-skinned potatoes, 
and boil them. Have some cream p;:t in a stew- 



CORDON ROUGE POTATO SOUFFLES. 



pan on the fire, let it reduce to abont half its quan- 
tity, stir constantly during the time of redacing. 
Peel and slice the potatoes into rounds, and place 
them into the boiliug cream ; let it simmer whilst 
stirring gently with a wooden spoon, to prevent it 
from burning. Season with salt, pepper, and 
grated nutmeg. Just before serving add a few 
small pieces of butter ; in doing so shake the stew- 
pan well, so as to blend well the potatoes. Stir 
carefully, so as not to break the slices, otherwise 
you will spoil the appearance of the dish, which 
it claims as one of its merits. 

This dish is the leading specialit}^ of Maire's 
restaurant in Paris, and is usually served with 
that celebrated dish known in Paris as Fillet a la 
]\[aire. 

POTATO SOUFFLES CORDON ROUGE. 

l\1lts Soitjf/rs <lc Pommp^ dc Tfrre a la Cordon 
rouge. 

Peel and boil six small potatoes, rub them 
through a w^ire sieve into a basin, moisten with a 
little cream or milk. Beat up two ounces of butter, 
and add to the potatoes, season wdth salt, pepper, 
aud grated nutmeg ; boil half a pint of milk in a 
stew-pan, add the potatoes, stir well over the fire 
to a smooth paste, and bind with two raw eggs, 
well beaten. Allow it to cool. Beat up the yolks 
of four eggs, mix the wdiites to snow, and stir 
gently iuto the mixture, together with the yolks 
and a handful of grated Gru^^ere or Parmesan 
cheese. Butter some small dariole or tartlet 
moulds, line the inside wdth soft bread crumbs, 
which must serve instead of a crust. Fill these 
with the mixture, bake them in a quick oven to a 



S6 SAJ^OURY niSUES OF VEGETABLES. 



light brown colour; turn out quickly, dust with 
finely grated cheese, and serve as hot as possible. 

POTATO RISSOLES. 

JRlssoles de Pommes do Torre. 

Peel and boil ten potatoes, drain, and rub them 
through a wire sieve. Place them in a bowl, add 
salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg to taste, two 
yolks of eggs, a tablespoonful of cream, and two 
of chopped parsle3^ Beat up till smooth. Make 
up into rissole shapes, egg and crumb them, and 
fry in clarified butter or dripping. Drain on a 
cloth, dish up on a folded napkin or paper, garnish 
with fried parsley, and serve. 

POTATO BONNE-BOUCHES. 

Bonnes-Bouclies de Pommes de Terre. 

Cut a few thin slices of cooked ham ; stamp 
these out with a round tin cutter, about an inch 
and a half in diameter. Spread over both sides 
a layer of prepared mashed potatoes, dip them in 
egg and bread crumbs or frying-batter ; fry them 
in hot fat or butter to a light brown colour, drain 
on a cloth, and dish up on a folded napkin. 

SAVOURY POTATOES. 

Pommes de Terre a VAUemande. 

Peel ten medium-sized potatoes, cut them into 
slices a quarter of an inch thick, parboil and drain 
them. Cut up two rashers of fat bacon into 
small pieces, fry these with a small chopped 
onion, dust with a little flour, stir over the fire 
until brown. Add a tablespoonful of cream, and a 



DEVILLED MUSHROOMS LN CASES. S; 

little white stock to make a smootli sauce. Season 
with pepper, salt, a pinch of thyme, marjoram, 
and powdered bayleaf, also a little grated nutmeg. 
Add the sliced potatoes. Let them simmer until 
tender; stir occasionally, but be careful, so as not 
to break the slices. Just before serving stir in a 
teaspoonful of chopped parsley, turn out on a dish, 
and serve. 

POTATO SAVOURY, ITALIAN STYLE. 

Fommes de Terre aii Fromagc a Vltalionnc 

Boil two pounds of potatoes ; skin and mash 
them, pass through a sieve. Sift half a pound of 
flour into a basin, add the potato puree, and work 
well with one ounce of butter, one ounce grated 
cheese, and seasoning. Shape some desired forms, 
lay them on a sieve to dry. Have ready some 
boiling water salted, throw in the potato shapes, 
a few at a time. When done, remove, drain, 
arrange them on a clish, sprinkle with grated 
cheese, pour over some oiled butter and a few 
fried bread crumbs, and serve. 

DEVILLED MUSHROOMS IN CASES. 

Champifjnons on Caissos <) la Diahh . 

Wipe and peel six cup mushrooms, cut them up 
into small dice. Butter some small paper cases, 
lay a small slice of lemon in each, fill in the 
mushrooms three parts full. Season with salt, 
pepper, cayenne, and lemon juice. Spread a layer 
of potted devilled meat, mixed with a yolk of 
Qgg^ over each case ; brush over with oiled butter, 
and bake gently for fifteen minutes. Dress the 
cases on small round fried bread croutons. Just 



SS SAVOUm' DISHES Of VEGETABLES. 



before sendiiig to ilie table, mask the top of 
the cases with a la3'er of stiff mayonnaise sauce, 
sprinkle with cayenne, and serve quickly. 

MUSHROOMS ON TOAST. 

Champignons stir Crotlions. 

Choose twelve large cup-mushrooms, cut, off the 
root ends, peel them, and grill them in butter, or 
broil. Season the inside with pepper and salt ; 
have ready a dozen pieces of rounds of toast, a 
trifle larger than the mushrooms ; bntter these 
well, place a slice of lemon on each, dress the 
mushrooms on them, dish up, garnish with sprigs 
of parsley and watercress, and serve. 

MUSHROOM CROUTONS. 

Croutons d' CJian)pi(/nons. 

Cut some slices of white bread, stamp out with 
an oblong fanc}^ or plain cutter, fry them in 
butter 1o a delicate golden colour, and set them to 
drain. Have ready a quart of button mushrooms, 
peeled and fried in butter; also a mixture of finely 
chopped beef and ham, moistened with a rich 
brown sauce. When quite hot, spread the mixture 
over the croutons, arrange the mushrooms in a 
roAv on each ; season with pepper, salt, (^ayenne, 
nnd a little lemon juice. Place the croutons in a 
hot oven for three minutes, dish up, garnish Avith 
crisped parsley, and serve. 

SAVOURY MUSHROOMS. 

CIian)j)ii/noiis (Ih,i- fines Jli'i'hcs. 

Choose a dozen large cup-mushrooms, ])eel, vrash, 
and di'ain them : put them in a bowl nu the side 



VEGETABLE MARROW ERl TIERS. So 

of the stove, season with two table-spoonfuls 
of olive oil, salt, pepper, and a little lemon juice. 
After they have been standing for an hour, broil 
them in a saute pan with a little butter, or over 
the gridiron. AVhen tender, dish them up on a 
piece of toas!:ed bread, cut in four. Prepare a 
sauce of oiled butter, chopped parsley, and chives, 
pour over the mushrooms, garnish with fried pars- 
ley, and serve. 

MUSHROOMS, PARISIAN STYLE. 

Chamjiiijnrtn^ a la ]\iri^fou]ir'. 

Choose one dozen large cup mushrooms, wash, 
cut off the stems, and turn them ; dry quickly on 
a cloth. Put one ounce of butter in a stew-pan 
over the fire ; when hot, add one tablespoonful of 
chopped onions, and one teaspoonful ot chopped 
parsle3\ Stir a few minutes, and then put in the 
mushrooms ; allow them to broil on both sides : 
season with salt, pepper, and cayenne. Stew until 
tender, and serve on hot toast. 

VEGETABLE MARROW FRITTERS. 

Beiipitts (VAuhrr(//nfs a VAiigla/sp. 

Peel some long green marrows, take out the 
seeds, and stuff them tightly with a salpicon 
mixture made of equal proportions of cold ham. 
tongue, beef, or any other kind of cold meat 
left, sauce, etc. Season the stuffing with salt, 
pepper, chopped parsley, sifted th3^me and mar- 
joram. Let the stuffed marrows stand for a few 
hours, then cut into small slices, about half an 
inch in thickness; dip these in egg and crumb 
in finely crushed water biscuit or ordinarv bread 



90 SAVOUJ^Y DISHES OF VEGETABLES. 

crumbs ; fry in hot fat or clarified butter, drain on 
a cloth, dish up on paper or folded napkin, garnish 
with fried parsley, and serve. 

EGG PLANT OR VEGETABLE MARROW AU 
GRATIN. 

Auherguies an Gvatin. 

Parboil two green marrows or French auber- 
gines, cut them in four, lengthwise, drain them 
on a sieve. Rub a gratin dish, or small oblong 
baking tin, with a piece of garlic, and butter well. 
Place the pieces of marrow neatly on the dish, 
season with pepper, salt, and a little grated nut- 
meg ; sauce over with bechamel sauce, strew 
over with grated Parmesan cheese, lay a few 
pieces of butter here and there upon them, 
sprinkle well with fine bread crumbs. Bake in a 
brisk oven for twenty minutes, and serve. 

SAVOURY VEGETABLE MARROW WITH 
ONIONS. 

Aiiberf/liies a Ja Frovcncale. 
Peel a marrow, cut it into small pieces, the same 
as oranges are divided, trim them neatly ; place 
them in a saucepan with a small handful of finely 
sliced onions, spread with butter, season with 
pepper, salt, grated nutmeg, and a pinch of castor 
sugar. Moisten with a little white stock, stew 
gently ; let the sauce be boiled down to glaze, 
add a pat of butter, a little lemon juice, sprinkle 
with chopped parsley, and serve. 

VEGETABLE MARROW WITH CHEESE. 

Aubergines an Fromage. 
Peel or scrape the rind of two green marrows, 
not too large in size ; cut them in quarters, length- 



SAVOURY CUCUMBER, STUFFED. 91 

wise ; scoop out the seedy parts, place them in a 
saute pan with a piece of fresh butter, season with 
pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg. Put the pan on 
the fire for a quarter of an hour, shaking it from 
time to time ; moisten with a little cream, and 
add a small handful of grated Parmesan cheese. 
Dish up the marrow neatly on an oblong dish ; 
dust with bread crumbs and Parmesan cheese ; 
place in a hot oven for a few minutes, and serve 
with a little j;/g?m»fe sauce round the dish. 

CUCUMBERS, MAITRE D'HOTEL STYLE. 

Concomhres a la Maltre d'HOtd. 

Scrape the green rind of two small cucumbers ; 
cut them into round slices about a quarter of an 
inch thick; put them in a basin, with two table 
spoonfuls of vinegar, and a small quantity of salt. 
Let them remain for a few hours ; then take the 
pieces out, put them in a stew-pan, with a piece of 
butter; season with pepper, grated nutmeg, and a 
little castor sugar. Now let them simmer over a 
steady fire until they are tender ; pour off a little 
of the butter, add a good spoonful of white sauce ; 
let them simmer again for a few minutes. Dish 
up the cucumbers; bind the sauce with two 
yolks of eggs ; mix with a little cream the juice 
of half a small lemon, and one tablespoonful of 
parsley. Pour the sauce over the dish, garnish 
with croutons of bread or fleio'ons, and serve. 

SAVOURY CUCUMBER, STUFFED. 

Concomhres farcis a la Demi-glace. 

Scrape the green rind of two large cucumbers, 
cut into pieces about three inches in length ; 



92 SAVOURY DISHES OF VEGETABLES. 



stamp out geiitl}" the centre with a round cutter. 
Fill them with a stuffing made of cooked beef 
or veal, finely minced ; bread crumbs, two eggs, 
well-beaten ; season with salt, pepper, chopped 
parsley, basil, and thyme. Cover the ends with 
thin slices of bacon, which tie on with string; let 
them stew gently in a stew-pan, with a little 
stock, until quite tender. Drain them on a cloth ; 
trim the ends. Prepare a border of mashed 
potatoes on a round dish; dress the pieces '-en 
couronne'' on the border, or else in the centre, in 
the form of a p3^ramid. Sauce over with a re- 
duced demi-glace or l^rown sauce, in which a little 
chopped and blanched parsley and chervil has 
been added. 



CUCUMBER CROUSTADE CORDON ROUGE. 

Orousfade dp Conromhrcx a la Cordon rou(/p. 

Cut some bread in the shape of a croustade, 
about three inches high, fry it and set on a dish. 
Peel or scrape t\\'0 large cucumbers, cut into pieces 
about two inches long, split them, scoop out the 
seedy parts, place them in a stew-pan with a 
piece of butter ; season Avith pepper, salt, grated 
nutmeg, and a teaspoonful of castor sugar ; 
moisten with a little white stock, and cover it, 
and let it simmer gently for half an hour. Dress 
the cucumber in the croustade, add to the remain- 
ing fond a large spoonful of bechamel sauce, the 
juice of half a lemon, and a little cream ; boil up, 
binrl with n yolk of egg, pour through a strainer 
over the dish, sprinkle with chopped parsley, and 
servo. 



CABBAGE LETTUCE, AMERICAN STYLE. 93 



CABBAGE AU GRATIN. 

CJioux ail Gratiii. 

Parboil a young cabbage, properly trimmed ami 
washed ; drain it well in a cullender, so that it 
takes the shape. Butter a round gratin dish, lay 
a few thin pieces of broiled bacon on it, and put 
the cabbage upon the bacon. Season with salt 
and pepper. Mask with thick white sauce, 
sprinkle thickly with grated Parmesan cheese and 
bread crumbs ; place on it a few small pieces of 
butter, here and there ; bake until a light brown 
colour, and serve in the gratin dish. 

SAVOURY CABBAGE. 

C/ioux farcis a VEspaipiole 

Trim and w^ash a young cabbage ; scoop out 
the base, stuff it with a well-seasoned meat and 
bread crumbs stuffing ; place it in a stew-pan, 
wdth Espagnol sauce. When cooked, take it out 
and press the cabbage gently in a cullender, to 
get it into shape. Dish up on a vegetable dish ; 
season with salt and pepper, coat it with well- 
reduced Espagnol sauce, strew a little bread rasp- 
ings over, garnish with slices of lemon, grilled cup 
mushrooms and parsley, and serve. 

CABBAGE LETTUCE, AMERICAN STYLE. 
Laitiies farcis a VAmericalne. 

Take two firm cabbage-lettuces, trim and wash 
them, blanch them until the leaves are soft. Have 
ready some minced veal and ham, seasoned with 
pepper, salt, and finely chopped onions ; open the 
leaves gently, insert the mixture between the 



94 SAVOURY DISHES OF VEGETABLES. 

leaves. When full, close up the leaves, brush them 
over with ^^^^ cover with bread crumbs ; place 
them ill a saute pan, well buttered. Broil them 
in the oven for twenty minutes. Dish up, sauce 
over with tomato sauce, and serve. 

HARICOT BEANS, MAITRE D'HOTEL. 

Haricots hlancs a la Maltre cVHotel. 

Blanch and boil the quantity of beans required. 
When tender, drain them ; melt a small piece of 
butter in a stew-pan, add the beans, season with 
salt and pepper. When warm through, mix in a 
little chopped parsley and chives ; thicken with 
a spoonful of white sauce; flavour with lemon 
juice. Shake well over the fire for a few minutes, 
dish up, and serve. 

Dried haricot beans should be soaked in cold 
water for at least twenty-four hours before they 
are cooked. 

SAVOURY BROAD-BEANS. 

Fevea de Marais an x fines Herbes. 

Shell a quart of young broad-beans ; boil them 
directly they are shelled for ten minutes in salt 
water, drain them on a sieve, put them in a saute 
pan with a piece of butter and two tablespoonfuls 
of white sauce; season with pepper and castor 
sugar, add some chopped parsley and tarragon. 
Let them simmer for a few minutes, dish up ; 
garnish with fleurons or bread croutons, and serve. 

SAVOURY LENTILS. 

Lentilles fricassees. 
Soak a quart of lentils for two hours in warm 
water, put them in a stew-pan with two quarts 



CAULIFLOWERS WITH CHEESE. 95 

of water, a piece of butter, and a little salt, and 
boil tliem for two hours. Drain tliem on a sieve, 
put them in a stew-pan with two pats of butter 
and some chopped onions ; let them simmer for a 
few minutes, then moisten with a little bechamel 
sauce and tablespoonful of cream ; season with 
pepper, boil for two minutes ; bind with a yolk 
of ^^^. stir quickly. Dish up, sprinkle with 
chopped parsley, and serve. 

CAULIFLOWER AU GRATIN. 

Choux-fleur an Gvatin. 

Take a cooked cauliflower, break ofP the sprays, 
press it into a small bowl, so that it takes the 
shape of it. Butter a round gratin dish, place 
the cauliflower on it, cover it with a thick layer of 
cold bechamel sauce ; season with salt and pepper, 
strew over thickly with grated Gruyere cheese and 
bread crumbs. Place a few small bits of butter 
here and there, and bake in the oven until it is of 
a light brown colour. 

CAULIFLOWERS WITH CHEESE. 

Choux-Jleurs an Parmesan. 

Trim and bbiltwo small cauliflowers ; when ten- 
der, drain and break them into pieces, place them 
in a stew-pan with some bechamel sauce, a table- 
spoonful of cream, a handful of grated Parmesan 
cheese ; season with salt, pepper, grated nutmeg 
and a little cayenne. Let it simmer for a few 
minutes, then add a yolk of egg, the juice of half 
a small lemon ; dish up neatly, and sprinkle over 
with grated Gruyere cheese and bread crumbs; 
brown lightly with a salamander, and serve. 



96 SAVOUKY DISHES OF VEGETABLES. 

JERUSALEM ARTICHOKES WITH ONIONS. 

Topiiimnhours a la Lyonnaisc. 

Take about two dozen even-sized Jerusalem 
artichokes, peel them, and boil in salt water, to 
which a piece of butter or lard has been added. 
When done, drain on a sieve. Avarm them up 
in a stew-pan with some brown sauce ; flavour 
with lemon juice and sliced onions. Let it simmer 
on the fire for a few minutes, add a little chopped 
parsley, stir well. Dish them up in the form of a 
pyramid, sauce over with the sauce well reduced, 
and serve. 

JERUSALEM ARTICHOKES, ITALIAN 
STYLE. 

Toplnmnhours a Vltallenne. 

AVasli about two* dozen artichokes, turn them 
in the shape of small pears, put them in a buttered 
saute pan ; season with pepper, salt, nutmeg and 
lemon juice ; moisten with a little stock, cover, 
and let them simmer for half an hour. The gravy 
should be boiled down to a glaze : add sufficient 
Italian sauce ; boil up. Dish up the artichokes, 
sauce over with the sauce, and serve. 

ARTICHOKE BOTTOMS, BORDELAISE. 

Fonds (.VArttchauts a la Borddaisc. 

Place twelve cooked artichoke bottoms iii a 
circular order in a well-buttered saute pan ; season 
them Avith pepper, salt and lemon juice : broil 
gently until warm through. Have ready for 
miing, sauce and Bordelaise garniture prepared as 
follows : — Cut fifteen or more large peeled button 
onions into rings, fry them in a stew-pan, Avith a 



SAVOURY ARTICHOKES, STUFFED. 97 



little sweet oil ; drain off the oil, and add half 
a pint of bechamel sauce, a piece of meat glaze, 
a dozen stoned olives, six lilletted anchovies, cut 
in dice. Simmer gently, season with pepper and 
a little cayenne. Fill the artichokes, prepared as 
directed above, dish them up, sprinkle \vith a little 
chopped parsley, and serve. 

ARTICHOKE BOTTOMS WITH BRUSSEL- 
SPROUTS. 

Fonds cV Articliauts a la BruxeUoise. 

Prepare some artichoke bottoms, as in the last, 
choose a quantity of small cooked sprouts, moisten 
with maitre d'hotel sauce, warm up in a snjall 
stew-pan ; fill the artichoke bottoms with same. 
Sprinkle with lemon juice, season with salt and 
cayenne, and serve with a little white sauce round 
the dish. 

SAVOURY ARTICHOKES, STUFFED. 

Articliauts farcis. 

Trim six medium-sized green artichokes, blanch 
them, and place in cold w^ater. Drain them on a 
sieve, scoop out the interior. Mince four rashers 
of bacon, put them in a stew^-pan with a piece of 
fresh butter, three chopped button onions, two 
chopped shallots, two tablespoonfuls of chopped 
mushrooms, and one tablespoonful of chopped 
parsley. Season with salt, pepper, a pinch of 
castor sugar, powdered thyme, and bay leaf ; fry 
the whole for ten minutes, then add half a pint of 
rich brown sauce ; let all simmer for another ten 
minutes, stir in a tablespoonful of bread crumbs, 
take out bay leaf and set it to cool. When cold, 

s.D. n 



98 SAVOURY DISHES OF VEGETABLES 



fill the interior of each artichoke with the mixture, 
tie over the centre with a thin piece of fat bacon, 
set them in a buttered saute pan with a little 
stock, in a hot oven, braise for half an hour. 
When clone, drain them on a cloth, take off the 
strings, dress on a dish, sauce over with a demi- 
glace, and serve. 

ARTICHOKES LYONESE STYLE. 

Artidiauts a la Lyonnaise. 

Trim, quarter and parboil four green artichokes ; 
drain them on a sieve, spread a saute pan thickly 
with butter, place them in the pan. Season with 
salt, pepper, castor sugar and a small glass of 
white wine ; moisten with a little stock, let all 
simmer until tender. Dress the artichokes on a 
dish in circular order, add a spoonful of brown 
sauce, seasoned with a sliced onion and a pat of 
butter to the remaining sauce in the saute pan ; 
flavour with lemon juice, boil for a few moments, 
sauce over the dish, and serve. 

FRENCH BEANS WITH FINE HERBS. 

Haricots verts aux fines Ilerhes. 

Take a quantity of small cooked French beans, 
melt a piece of butter in a stew-pan, add two 
chopped shallots, two tablespoonfuls of chopped 
parsley and chives ; put in the beans, season 
with salt, pepper, nutmeg, and lemon juice. Toss 
the whole over a brisk fire until the beans get 
thoroughly hot, dish them up, garnish with 
croutons, and serve. 



SAVOURY PEAS WITH HAM. 99 

SAVOURY FRENCH BEANS, POULETTE. 

Haricots verts a la Poulette. 
Pick, string, cut and boil some French beans ; 
when done, drain on a sieve, then put in a stew- 
pan with a pat of butter ; season with salt, pepper, 
sugar, some chopped green onions or chives. Toss 
over the fire for a few minutes, add half a pint 
of bechamel sauce ; let all simmer for ten minutes. 
Just before dishing up add three tablespoonfuls of 
cream and two yolks of eggs, to bind ; stir until 
it begins to thicken, dish up, sprinkle with finely 
chopped parsley, and serve. 

SAUTE^ OF FRENCH BEANS. 
Haricots verts sautes an Beiirre. 

Dissolve a quarter of a pound of fresh butter 
in a stew-pan, put in enough small young cooked 
beans to make a good dish ; season with salt, 
pepper, and a little grated nutmeg. Toss them 
over a brisk fire, until thoroughly hot ; dress them 
on a dish in a pile, sprinkle with finely chopped 
parboiled parsley, and serve. 

SAVOURY PEAS WITH HAM. 

Pet its Pois ail Jamhon. 

Boil and strain a quart of young peas ; mince 
coarsely a rasher of raw ham, put it in a stew- 
pan with a small piece of butter, fry until tender. 
Add two small green onions, finely minced, and 
the peas ; moisten with three tablespoonfuls of 
bechamel sauce, two of cream ; season with salt, 
pepper, and a pinch of castor sugar. Let all sim- 
mer for ten minutes, turn out on a dish, garnish 
with croutons, and serve. 



!Oo SAVOURY DISHES OF VEGETABLES. 



STEWED PEAS WITH LETTUCE. 

Petlts Pois au Laitue a la Francaise. 

Boil a quart of young peas, strain them, and 
put in a stew-pan with a piece of butter ; mix 
with a firm cabbage-lettuce, finely shred, a table- 
spoonful of chopped chives or green onions, one of 
chopped parsley, and a teaspoonf ul of castor sugar ; 
season with salt, pepper, and finely chopped green 
mint. Cover the stew-pan. and let all simmer 
gently for ten minutes. Mix a dessertspoonful 
of flour with two pats of fresh butter, put this 
in with the peas ; mix well over the fire for a few 
seconds whilst shaking; dish up, garnish with 
fleurons or croutons, and serve. 

STEWED PEAS, FRANCAISE. 

Petits Pois au Sucre d la Francaise. 

Take a quart of cooked peas, prepare them in 
the same manner as the above, leaving out the 
lettuce. AVhen done, add a dessertspoonful of 
liquid meat glaze, finish with a pat of butter, 
mixed with a little flour ; dish up, and dust with 
an extra quantity of castor sugar : sprinkle with 
a little chopped parsley, and serve. 

SAVOURY CARROTS. 

Garottes aux fines Ilerbes. 

Dissolve a small piece of butter in a stew-pan, 
add a tablespoonful of flour, a little chopped 
parsley, and some minced shallots. Prepare a 
quart of sliced young French carrots ; put these 
in the stew-pan, cook gently, whilst stirring from 
time to time. When the carrots are of a light 



ASPARAGUS POINTS WITH FINE HERBS. loi 



brown colour, add a pint of gravy or stock ; 
season with salt, pepper, grated niitmeg, and 
the juice of half a lemon. Cover closely, and sim- 
mer until tender ; dish up, garnish with sippets 
of toast round the dish, and serve. 

YOUNG CARROTS WITH WHITE SAUCE. 

Garottes nouvelles a V Allemande. 

Trim a bunch of spring carrots, wash them, 
boil them for ten minutes in salt water, strain in 
a cullender. Dissolve an ounce of fresh butter in 
a stew-pan, add half a pint of white stock ; put 
in the carrots, and boil for a quarter of an hour. 
Add a small quantity of Allemande sauce ; season 
with salt, pepper, and a dessertspoonful of castor 
sugar ; boil for another quarter of an hour, whilst 
shaking the pan occasionally. Dish up the carrots 
in the form of a dome. Reduce the sauce to a 
glaze, bind with a yolk of egg^ sauce over the 
dish ; sprinkle with chopped, parboiled parsley, 
garnish with ileurons, and serve. 

ASPARAGUS POINTS WITH FINE HERBS. 

Fointes cVAsperges aux fines Ilerhes. 

Boil a quart of green asparagus points in salt 
and water. When done, plunge in cold water, and 
drain them on a sieve. Dissolve a piece of butter 
in a saute pan ; add a finely chopped shallot, 
and some chopped parsley. Put in the aspar- 
agus ; season with pepper, grated nutmeg, and 
sugar ; moisten with some w^hite sauce, and let all 
simmer gently for a quarter of an hour. Just 
before serving bind with two yolks of eggs, stir 
up until it sets, and turn out on dish ; garnish 
round with fried bread croutons, and serve. 



SAVOURY DISHES OF VEGETABLES. 



BRAIZED CELERY, ESPAGNOLE. 

Celeri braise a VEspagnole. 

Clean and trim four heads of white celery, cut 
them into pieces about four inches long, parboil 
them, immerse in cold water, and drain on a sieve. 
Line a small stew-pan with slices of fat bacon, 
place the celery on these, moisten with a little 
stock, season with pepper and salt. Set them to 
braize gentl}^ for half an hour, then add some 
brown sauce (Espagnole), and finish cooking over 
a slow fire for another tv/enty minutes. In the 
meantime prepare some small round hollow bread 
croutons, fill them with chicken forcemeat or 
beef marrow, and brush over with liquid meat 
glaze. Dress the celery in the centre of a dish, 
garnish round with the croutons. Reduce the 
sauce to a glaze, adding a piece of butter, and the 
juice of half a small lemon. Pour over the celery, 
and serve. 



FRIED CELERY, DRESDEN STYLE. 

CeUrifrit a la Dresde. 

Prepare four heads of celery, and braize as 
above described ; finish by masking the celery in 
some reduced Allemande sauce. Set the pieces 
separately on a dish to cool ; when cold, brush with 
beaten egg, and crumb them in the usual way. 
Put the pieces in a wire basket, fry them to 
a yellow colour in hot fat or clarified butter ; 
drain them on a cloth, dish up on a round dish, 
sauce round with tomato sauce, garnish with 
fried parsley, and serve. 



SAVOURY SA LSI FITS. 103 



STEWED CELERY, MAITRE D'HOTEL. 

CHeri a la Malt re cVhOfel. 
Trim four heads of celery, cut them into pieces 
about four or five inches long, Avasli them and 
blanch them in boiling water. Blanch also four 
small onions, place them in a stew-pan with the 
celer}^ ; season with salt and pepper ; add a little 
white stock, and stew gently till tender. Dress 
the celer}^ upon pieces of toasted bread on a dish, 
garnish with the boiled onions, reduce the stock 
to a glaze, add an equal quantity of white sauce, 
a tablespoonful of parsley, one of cream, and a 
little sugar ; boil up and sauce over the celery. 

SAVOURY SALSIFITS. 

Sals/Jis aux fines Herhes. 
Scrape about twenty heads of salsify, cut them 
into pieces about two inches long, sprinkle them 
with salt, and steep in water. Cut a small onion, 
half a carrot, half a turnip and half a head of 
celery into small pieces ; put all in a stew-pan with 
a quarter of a pound of lean bacon cut into pieces. 
Stir over the fire for a quarter of an hour, stir in 
an ounce of flour, fill up with a quart of stock or 
water, bring it to boil, put in the salsifits. Season 
with pepper, flavour with thyme, and bay leaf : 
let them simmer gently until tender. Take out 
the salsifits, drain them on a cloth ; strain the 
gravy, put it back in a clean stew^-pan to reduce ; 
add a similar quantity of white sauce, a dessert- 
spoonful of cream, one of chopped parsley, a little 
lemon juice, and some grated nutmeg and castor 
sugar. When hot, put in the salsifits ; boil up, 
dress them neatly on a dish, garnish with fleurons 
and button mushrooms, sauce over and serve. 



104 SAVOURY DISHES OF VEGETABLES. 



SALSIFIT PRITTEIIS. 

Salsifis frits. 

Prepare the salsifits as described in the fore- 
going ; when done, drain them on a cloth, put the 
pieces in a bowl, with two tablespoonfuls of oil to 
one of vinegar. Season with pepper and grated 
nutmeg ; allow them to remain in the seasoning 
for an hour. Take them out, drain on a cloth, 
dip them in some frying batter, fry them in hot 
fat, lard, or clarified butter ; drain, and dish up on 
a folded napkin ; garnish with fried parsle^^, and 
serve. 

SCALLOPED SALSIFITS. 

CoquiUes cle Sals?fis. 

Scrape a bundle of salsifits, cut them into pieces 
about an inch and a half long, throw them into 
vinegar and water as they are being done, boil 
them in salted water until tender, drain them on 
a sieve. Broil in two ounces of butter over a 
quick fire, season with grated nutmeg and oriental 
salt^ or cayenne pepper ; add half a gill of cream 
and a dessertspoonful of chopped parsley, also 
one teaspoonful of anchovy sauce. Fill up some 
buttered scallop shells, strew over with bread 
crumbs, sprinkle with a few drops of lemon juice, 
place a small piece of butter here and there, and 
bake in a hot oven for fifteen minutes. 

BEETROOT FRITTERS. 

Beicjnets de Betteraves. 

Boil a large beetroot, also a large Spanish onion. 
When done, remove the skin off a cooked beetroot 



CARDOONS ESPAGNOLE. 105 

and cnfc into thin rounds ; stamp these out in 
equal-sized rounds, phice them on a disli. Season 
with a little vinegar, salt, and pepper. Prepare 
a mixture of the boiled onion, finely chopped ; 
moisten with a little thick bechamel sauce ; spread 
the slices of beetroot on one side with this. Put 
two slices together, like sandwiches, press them 
lightly, dip them in some frying batter, and drop 
one b}^ one into boiling fat or lard. Fry for five 
minutes, drain on a cloth, sprinkle with pepper ; 
dish up neatly on a folded napkin, garnish with 
crisped parsley, and serve. 

STEWED BEETROOTS IN SAUCE. 

Betteraves en llagoiV. 

Bake two beetroots in the oven until tender ; 
when cold, remove the skin, and cut them into 
slices. Put them in a stew-pan, pour over a little 
vinegar, and some stock or grav}^ Season with 
pepper and salt, and simmer gently for half an 
hour. Pour off the gravy, reduce it to a glaze, 
add few slices of beetroot, well pounded in a 
mortar, and two tablespoonfuls of brown sauce. 
Boil up for a few minutes, mix gently with the 
sliced beetroot, dish up, garnish with fleurons or 
fried bread croutons, and serve. 

CARDOONS ESPAGNOLE. 

Cardans a VEsjmgnole. 

Clean and trim some cardoons, cut them into 
pieces about four inches long, boil them in salt 
and water. When done, drain them in a sieve, 
put them in a stew-pan with brown sauce (Es- 
pagnoij. Season with pepper and cayenne ; let 



io6 SAVOURY DISHES OF VEGETABLES. 



them simmer gently for ten minutes ; flavour with 
a little lemon juice. Dress the pieces neatly on a 
dish, on toasted pieces of bread. Sauce over 
with the sauce well reduced, and serve. 

CAKDOONS, MAITRE D'HOTEL STYLE. 

Cardons a la Maitre cVHoteL 

Prepare and cook the cardoons as above ; let 
them simmer for some time in maitre d'hotel 
sauce. Dish up ; sauce over with the sauce : 
sprinkle with a little chop23ed parsley ; garnish 
with fleurons, and serve. 

FRIED CARDOONS. 

Cardons frits. 

These are prepared and cooked in the same way 
as the foregoing. When cooked, they are drained 
on a cloth, seasoned with pepper, ca3^enne, lemon 
juice, and chopped parsley. Then dip them in 
frying batter, one b}^ one, fry in clarified butter 
or fat. Drain, dish up on a folded napkin, gar- 
nish with fried parsley, and serve. 

SPINACH, FRENCH STYLE. 

Eplnards a la Francalse. 

Pick, wash, and boil the spinach in the usual 
way, rub it through a wire sieve, put it in a stew- 
pan with a piece of fresh butter. Stir over the 
fire for a few minutes, dredge with flour, season 
with salt, 23epper, a little sugar, and grated nut- 
meg. Let all simmer gently, whilst stirring, for ten 
minutes. After taking it off the fire, add a little 
cream, dish up, garnish round the dish with crou- 
tons of fried bread, and serve. 



TRUFFLES IN CRUSTS. 107 



SORREL WITH POACHED EGGS. 

Oseilles aux (Eufs poches. 

Sorrel, like spinach, is not often used as an 
entremet or savoury ; but both make a nice and 
delicious change, when in season, as second course 
or savomy-entremet. 

To prepare sorrel as above described, proceed as 
follows : — 

Pick, wash, and drain a sufficient quantity of 
sorrel to make a dish. Put it in a stew-pan wath 
a small piece of fresh butter. Stir over the fire 
until it is melted, after which rub it through a 
wire sieve ; then put it in a stew-pan with a piece 
of butter. Season with salt and pepper, dredge 
with a little flour, moisten with some brown 
sauce, let all simmer for a quarter of an hour. 
Stir in one by one two or three yolks of eggs ; dish 
up as the eggs begin to set, which must be well 
mixed. Have ready some poached eggs ; trim 
these and dress them upon the top. Place a few 
fleurons round the dish, sprinkle with a few drops 
of liquid glaze, and serve. 

TRUFFLES IN CRUSTS. 

C route aux T ruffes. 

If fresh truffl.es are used, w^ash and scrub them 
with a hard brush, to get them thoroughly clean. 
Soak six large truffles in w^arm water for two 
hours, peel them thinly with a small sharp knife, 
cut them into thin slices. Put them in a saute 
pan with an ounce of fresh butter. Season with 
salt, pepper, and cayenne. Flavour with half a 
glass of sherry or Madeira ; let them simmer gentty 
for half an hour, moisten with some rich demi- 
glace. Cut a French roll in two, lengthwise, 



loS SAVOURY DISHES OF VEGETABLES. 

scoop out the soft part, fry them of a light colour 
in clarified butter ; drain them, place them on a 
dish, mask the inside with liquid meat glaze, put 
in the truffles and sauce, and serve. 

TRUFFLES SAUTE METROPOLE. 

Trufes saute a la Mttroi^ole. 

Line a saute pan with a few thin slices of fat 
bacon, flavour with slices of carrots, turnips, 
onions, bay leaf, parsley, cloves, and thyme. Put 
in some large peeled truffles, moisten with some 
white stock, and a glass of champagne ; cover over 
and let it simmer for half an hour. Take out the 
truffles, dish them neatly on a croustade of bread, 
reduce the liquor, skim off the fat, and pass it 
through a strainer over the truffles. Season the 
truffles with a little ground mace, pepper and 
salt before serving. 

TRUFFLES IN CRUST. ITALIENNE. 

Cut out a nice croustade of bread, fry it a light 
colour, place it on a dish. Prepare some sliced 
truffles, the same as for truffles in crusts, add some 
white sauce (supreme or bechamel) ; dress them 
in the croustade. Sprinkle with liquid glaze, and 
serve. 

TRUFFLES, CAREME STYLE. 

Truffes farcies a la Car erne. 

Choose six large preserved Perigord truffles, let 
them simmer for ten minutes in a little white 
stock and champagne ; take out the truffles to get 
cool. Scoop out the interior, which chop finely 
with half as many mushrooms, and mix with 
some forcemeat to form a stuflflng ; fill the shells 



PUMPKIN WITH PARMESAN CHEESE. IC9 

of truffles witli it, season them with salt and 
pepper. Eg^ them all over, cover them with 
chopped truffles and chopped ham. Place them 
in a buttered saute pan, pour over the stock left, 
let them simmer gently for half an hour. Dish up 
the truffles on a croustade, or in the centre of a 
round deep dish in the form of a pyramid. Re- 
duce the liquor to a glaze, adding a little de mi- 
glace. Sauce over and serve. 

DEVILLED OLIVES. 

Olives a la Diable. 
Stone some large olives, stuff them with an- 
chovy paste. Spread some small whole-meal or 
charcoal biscuits with anchovy paste, brush over 
with oiled butter ; place the olives in circular rows 
on the biscuits, season with pepper and plenty of 
cayenne. Place them on a buttered saute pan in 
the oven for ten minutes, and dish up on a folded 
napkin. Garnish with parsle}^, and serve very 
hot. 

PUMPKIN WITH PARMESAN CHEESE. 

Citrouillt au Parmesan. 
Peel a small pumpkin, wash and wipe it, steep 
in salt water for half an hour, take out and drain. 
Cut as many slices as may be required (the re- 
mainder will keep in salt water) ; dissolve some 
fresh butter in a stew-pan, put in the slices, 
season with a little salt, pepper and aromatic 
spice ; let fry for a few minutes, stirring con- 
stantly. Dish up on a buttered gratin dish, 
sprinkle the top thickly with grated Parmesan 
cheese, a little fresh bread crumbs, and a few 
small bits of butter. Bake in a hot oven for ten 
minutes, and serve. 



Savour? Biebee of i£qqb. 



INTRODUCTION. 

Eggs are most faithful assistants in the prepara- 
tion of savoury dishes. The}^ are often badly 
served, simply because some cooks fail to bestow 
the proper attention required for their prepara- 
tion, or else they are ignorant of those important 
details which are most essential to be observed 
when preparing them. 

Omelets are called by the names of certain 
ingredients added to flavour them. They can 
be prepared and flavoured in an almost endless 
variety. One of the greatest mistakes in cooking 
omelets is that the eggs are not beaten up 
sufficiently, and that they are cooked too much 
or made too thin ; consequently they eat tough 
and dry. 

The great point to be observed in the making 
of an omelet is to see that the eggs are well beaten. 
If any of the white of egQ is left in the prepara- 
tion, not properly worked, it will become hard, no 
matter how careful you may be in cooking it. 
The fire required for cooking an omelet must be 
bright, but not too fierce, as the principal point 
with an omelet is to have the whole substance 
heated quickly, and so that the outside only is 
browned, whilst the interior should be soft and 



VENISON OMELET. 



moist. Omelets must be cooked in proper omelet 
pans, and very little butter should be used in fry- 
ing, or else the omelet will look greasy. 

Sauces are in some cases served with omelets. 

SAVOURY OMELET. 

Omelette aux fines Herhes. 

Take four eggs, break them in a basin, beat up ; 
well ; chop a dessertspoonful of parsley, tarragon, 
and a few sweet herbs very fine, add these to the 
eggs, season with pepper and salt. Melt a small 
piece of fresh butter in an omelet pan ; when hot, 
pour in the ingredients, stir over a brisk fire with 
a fork. When the eggs begin to get firm roll the 
omelet to the shape of an oval cushion. AIIoav it 
to get light brown, then turn it on an oval dish. 
Serve with a little brown sauce or gravy, and 
garnish with parslej'. Tarragon and sweet herbs 
may be omitted. 

SAVOURY OMELET, PARISIAN STYLE. 

Omelette aux fines Herhes a la Farisienne. 

Prepare this omelet the same way as prescribed 
in the foregoing recipe, but use only half the 
number of whites of eggs and double the number 
of yolks ; add also a little cream, to be beaten up 
with the eggs. 

VENISON OMELET. 

Omelette au Chevreuil. 

Chop some cooked venison finely (a quarter of a 
pound of meat to four eggs), season with pepper, 
salt, cayenne, minced mushrooms, and a few 
pinches of ground mace. Break the eggs, dividing 



SAVOURY DISHES OF EGGS. 



the yolks into a basin with the meat and the 
whites in a bowl. Stir up the mince well, whip 
the white to a foam, and mix gently with the 
yolks and minced meat. Melt a little butter in an 
omelet pan, pour in the mixture when hot, and 
fry the omelet in the usual way. Garnish with 
fried parsley and thin slices of lemon, and serve 
with a little red currant jelly. Any other game 
may be made into omelets in the same way as 
venison. 

CAVIARE OMELET. 

Omelette au Caviar. 

Mix some caviare (two tablespoonfuls to four 
eggs) with a little chopped parsley and shallots, 
warm up in a stew-pan with a little fresh butter, 
add the juice of half a small lemon, and some 
cayenne pepper. Have ready an omelet made 
with eggs, chopped green onions, and seasoning ; 
when fried and just ready for serving, put the 
caviare in the centre, turn over the flaps, dish up 
and serve as hot as possible. The dish should 
be garnished with some fried bread sippets and 
crisped parsley. 

TBUFFLE OMELET. 

Omelette aux Truffes. 

Make an omelet with eggs, chop^^ed truffles, 
parsley and shallots, and seasoned with pepper 
and salt. Slice up a few truffles, boil up in a 
little sherry, add some demi-glace sauce, and a 
pinch of sugar. When your omelet is fried and 
ready in the pan, put the truffles in the centre, 
turn the flaps over with a knife or spoon, turnout 



SAUSAGE OMELET. 



13 



on an oval dish, and sauce round with the re- 
mainder of the sauce. 

MUSSEL OMELET. 

Omelette aiix Monies. 

Trim some mussels (eighteen mussels to four 
eggs), fry them with a little fresh butter, season 
with pepper and salt. Beat up your eggs, add 
the mussels and a little lemon juice. Melt your 
butter in the omelet pan, and fry the omelet in 
the usual way. Serve with a little gravy or some 
brown sauce. 

OYSTER OMELET. 

Omelette aiix Huitres. 

Blanch some large oysters in their own juice 
(twelve oysters to four eggs), drain them well, 
trim and cut up into slices ; warm up in a little 
white fish sauce, add a yolk of egg and a little 
cream ; let it thicken, but not boil, season with a 
little salt and ca^^enne pepper. Have ready an 
omelet, fill in the preparation and turn out on 
your dish. The remainder of the sauce should be 
poured round the omelet. 

MUSHROOM OMELET. 

Prepare and fry an omelet the same as truffle 
omelet, but substitute chopped or sliced mush- 
rooms for the truffles. 

SAUSAGE OMELET. 

Omelette aiix Saucissons. 

Break four eggs in a basin, add a little chopped 
shallot, pepper and salt ; beat up well, then add a 

S.D. I 



ir4 SAVOURY DISHES OF EGGS. 

handful of minced smoked sausage (ham or liver). 
Melt a small piece of butter (a little more than an 
ounce to the above quantity of eggs) in an omelet 
pan ; when hot, pour in the eggs, stir round until it 
sets. Shake the pan, whilst holdiiig it in a slant- 
ing position, so as to bring the omelet in its proper 
shape ; leave it over the fire for a moment to 
brown, turn it on an oval dish, and serve with a 
little demi-glace sauce. 

HAM OMELET. 

Omelette au Jambon. 

Break some eggs, season, add some chopped 
cooked ham, and prepare the omelet as above. 

BACON OMELET. 

Omelette au Lard. 

Mince a quarter of a pound or more of lean or 
streaky bacon very fine, fry it in a little butter, 
stir in six well beaten and seasoned eggs. Fry 
the omelet, and serve wdth piquant sauce. 

LENTIL OMELET. 

Omelette aux Lentilles. 

Break four eggs in a basin, season with pepper 
and salt, beat up well, and add four tablespoonfuls 
of boiled and drained lentils, also a few drops of 
lemon or lime juice. Melt a piece of butter in an 
omelet pan ; when hot, pour in the mixture, and 
fry the omelet in the usual manner. Serve with 
a little tomato sauce and garnish with fried 
parsley. 



AMERICAN OMELET. 115 



LOBSTER OMELET. 

Omelette cle Homard. 

Cut some lobster meat into small dice, which 
warm up in a little ready prepared lobster sauce : 
have ready a plain omelet, seasoned with pepper, 
salt and cayenne ; put the lobster with a little sauce 
in the centre, turn out on a dish, and pour the 
remainder of the sauce round the omelet. 

COCKLE OMELET. 

Omelette mix Bucardes. 

Beat up three eggs in a basin, add a tablespoon- 
ful of cream, salt, pepper, and anchovy essence to 
taste. Stir in aboitt half a pint of j)i'^pared 
cockles. Put a piece of butter in an omelet pan 
over the fire ; when hot, put in the above, cook 
and finish the omelet in the usual w^ay. 

PRAWN OMELET. 

Omelette aux llcrevisses. 

Ctit up into very small pieces some picked 
prawns or crayfish tails (twelve to four eggs), 
season with salt, cayenne, and nutmeg ; fry them 
in a little butter. Beat up the eggs, add the 
minced prawns, and fry the omelet in the usual 
way. 

AMERICAN OMELET. 

Omelette a VAmericcdne. 

Boil a handful of bread crumbs in half a pint 
of milk ; add a little chopped chives and parsley, 
stir in four yolks of eggs, let it thicken, but not 
boil, and season with pepper and salt. Whip the 



ii6 SAVOURY DISHES OF EGGS. 



whites of four eggs to a foam, mix gently with the 
above. Melt a little butter in an omelet pan, and 
fry the omelet in the usual way ; garnish with 
some fried parsle3^ 

OLIVE OMELET. 

Omelette aujc Olives. 

Stone some French olives (ten olives to four 
eggs), boil them in a little rich demi-glace sauce 
in a stew-pan, season with cayenne and salt 
and a pinch of sugar ; prepare a savoury omelet, 
put the olives in the centre, pour the remainder 
of the sauce round the omelet, and serve. 

OMELET WITH MIXED VEGETABLES. 
Omelette a la Jardiniere. 

Prepare a jardiniere of cooked carrots, turnips, 
small button onions, peas, and French beans. Heat 
up in a little rich white sauce, season with 
pepper and salt, add some cho^Dped parsley, and a 
pinch of castor sugar. Have ready a plain ome- 
let, seasoned with chopped shallots, pepper and 
salt; when ready to turnout, put the jardiniere 
into the centre, fold and dish up. Sauce round 
with a little white sauce, and serve. 

TOMATO OMELET, No. 1. 

Omelette aux Tomates. 

Cut two ripe red tomatoes into small pieces, fry 
some chopped shallots in a little butter, add the 
tomatoes, season with salt and pepper. Prepare 
an omelet seasoned with savoury herbs ; when 
it is ready for turning out, place the tomatoes in 



POTATO OMELET. 11/ 

the centre, turn over the flaps, dish up and serve 
with tomato sauce. 

TOMATO OMELET, No. 2. 

Omelette aux Tomates. 

Broil a tablespoonful of finely chopped onions 
v/ith a piece of butter in a stew-pan ; Avlien tender, 
add six red tomatoes, scalded, skinned, and cut 
into small pieces ; season with pepper, salt, and 
a little cayenne ; let all simmer for about twenty 
to thirty minutes. Turn out into a basin, and add 
two handfuls of white bread crumbs ; mix well 
with six eggs, fry in an omelet pan in the ordi- 
nary way, or turn it into a buttered shallow dish, 
and bake it in a quick oven. Serve with tomato 
sauce round the dish. 

CHEESE OMELET. 

Omelette an Fromage. 

Break four eggs, season with peppsr and salt, 
beat up well and add a tablespoonful of grated Par- 
mesan cheese and a little chopped parsley. Melt 
a piece of butter in your omelet pan ; when hot, 
pour in the eggs, stir until it sets, shake the pan, 
fold the ends of the omelet inwards, let brown, 
then turn on an oval dish, flavour with grated 
cheese, and serve. 

POTATO OMELET. 

Omelette aux Pommes de Terre. 

Bake a large potato, break the skin, scoop out 
the centre, rub through a wire sieve, put into a 
basin, stir Avell with a wooden spoon, add four yolks 
of eggs, one after the other, a Uttle lemon juice, 



SAVOURY DISHES OF EGGS. 



season with salfc, pepper, and a small quantity of 
grated nutmeg. Whip four whites of eggs to snow, 
and mix gently with the mixture just before the 
omelet is fried. Fry the omelet in the usual way, 
dish up and garnish with parsley. 

SAVOURY SOUFFLE OMELET. 

Separate three yolks of eggs from the whites, 
put the yolks in a basin, w^ork well, and add a 
teaspoonful of chopped parsley, half a teaspoonful 
of chopped shallots, and a saltspooriful of dried 
savoury herbs. Whip the white of Qgg to a stiff 
froth, mix gradually with the yolks, season with 
a little salt and a pinch of cayenne. Dress neatly 
in a buttered gratin dish, sprinkle with grated 
Parmesan, and bake in a moderate oven for about 
fifteen minutes, 

NORFOLK EGGS. 

CfJiifs frits a la Norjolk. 

Boil some eggs until they are hard (they will 
take about ten minutes), place them in water until 
required, roll them lightly on the table, and peel 
them ; dry with a soft cloth, cut them into halves 
lengthwise, dredge them lightly wdth hour. 
Beat up two raw eggs in a basin, dip in the 
halves one by one, crumb in soft white bread 
crumbs, fry in clarified butter, and serve them 
with piquante sauce, or mushroom sauce ; garnish 
with a little fried parsley, and serve. 

EGGS A LA GRANVILLE. 

Slice a small Spanish onion finely, fry with a 
piece of butter in a stew-pan until of a light brown 



EGGS STUFFED WITH SPINACH. 119 



colour, add a little flour, dilute witli milk to mal:e 
a light sauce ; stir well, and add a small quantity 
of ground mace and some chopped lemon rind, 
season with pepper and salt. Have ready four 
hard-boiled eggs, peel and shred them coarsel}^, 
put them in the sauce ; when hot, dish up and gar- 
nish with fried parsley and small bread croutons. 

EGGS i. LA SALAMANDRE. 

Boil some eggs until quite hard, cut the whites 
into small pieces, rub the yolks through a coarse 
wire sieve. Prepare a thick white sauce, to which 
a little chopped parsley, fresh cream and a small 
quantity of cayenne pepper should be added. Boil 
up the white of eggs in the sauce, make a thin 
border of hot mashed potatoes on the dish you 
wish to serve in ; dress the eggs and mixture in 
the centre, cover with the yolks of eggs, and brown 
lightly with a salamander. 

EGGS STUFFED WITH SPINACH. 

(Eufsfarcis aux Epinards. 

Boil six eggs for ten minutes, peel them, cut 
them in halves crossways, cut out the centre with 
a long vegetable cutter, about half an inch in 
diameter. Cut out some croutons about the size of 
the base of an Qgg^ fry them in clarified butter, 
have ready some cooked spinach which has been 
passed through the sieve, seasoned with pepper, 
salt, nutmeg, and cream ; boil up for a few min- 
utes whilst stirring. Place each portion of egg 
on a crouton of bread, fill up carefully with the 
spinach, close the top with the pieces cut out. Dish 
up, garnish with the yolks, minced coarsely, and 



SAVOUI^y DISHES OF EGGS. 



some dice of tongue, and serve with a little brown 
sauce. 

EGGS A LA MATELOTTE. 

Poach six eggs in white stock, drain and trim 
them, and dish up on fried bread croutons. Chop 
an onion and three shallots ver^^ finely, fry them 
with a little butter in a stew-pan, add a little pars- 
ley, a bay leaf, and thyme. Strain off the butter, 
and add some rich brown sauce, and put it back in 
the stew-pan. Add a few sliced mushrooms and 
the juice of half a lemon. Place the dish with 
the eggs in the oven for a few seconds, then sauce 
over. Garnish with fillets of anchovies and fried 
parsley, and serve. 

EGG CUTLETS. 

COtelettes aux (Eufs. 

Boil four eggs hard, peel, and chop them up 
finely, mix with two ounces of bread crumbs, four 
ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, an ounce of 
butter, a tea spoonful of curr}^ powder, a little 
nutmeg, pepper and salt, and the beaten 3'Olks 
of four eggs. Shape the mixture into forms like 
small cutlets, dip them into the whites of the 
eggs, then into brown bread crumbs ; fry them 
in hot butter or lard, drain them well. Insert a 
small piece of macaroni in each cutlet to form 
the bone ; dish up ver^^ hot, garnish with sprigs 
of fried parsley, and serve. 

EGGS WITH BROWN BUTTER. 

G'Jufs an Beurre noir. 

Melt a small piece of butter in an omelet pan ; 
when hot, break six eggs into it, taking care not 



EGG AND HAM TIT-BITS. 



to disturb the yolks. Season with pepper and salt ; 
fry them for five minutes, then dish them up. Add 
another piece of butter into the pan, fry it until 
brown, then add a tablespoonf ul of Orleans or malt 
vinegar ; let it boil up for a few seconds, pour over 
the eggs, and serve. 



EGGS WITH MUSHROOMS. 

(Fjufs aux Chainpignons. 

Take some hard-boiled eggs, remove the shells, 
cut half of the eggs into thin rings for garnishing, 
chop up the remainder coarsely. Slice and fry a 
few button mushrooms with some chopped onions, 
or shallots, add a little thick brown sauce, put in 
the eggs, let them simmer for a few minutes. 
Dish up on a round dish, garnish with small fried 
bread sippets, the rings of the whites of eggs, and 
serve. 

EGG AND HAM TIT-BITS. 

Bonnes-Bouclies aux (Eiifs et Jamhon. 

Line a quantity of small tartlet moulds with 
puff paste trimmings or paste crust ; fill these 
with the following preparation : — 

Mince some boiled ham very fine, take one hard 
boiled egg to every tablespoonf ul of minced ham. 
Mix with a yolk of a raw egg^ a little cream, and 
season with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. Fill 
up and bake the patties in a moderately hot oven, 
dish up ai)d serve with some piquante or tomato 
sauce. 

The sauce should be served separately in a 
sauce boat. 



SAFO[//?V DISHES OF EGGS. 



EGGS, GERMAN STYLE. 

(Eufs a VAUein ancle. 

Boil some eggs hard, remove the shells, divide 
them in halves lengthways, scoop out the yolks. 
Shred the whites in fine strijDS, warm these up 
with a little fresh butter in an omelet pan, then add 
a little white Allemande sauce, a tablespoonful of 
tomato puree, a few drops of essence of anchov}'. 
Season with salt, pep23er, and a few drops of chilli 
vinegar, stir all over the fire until quite hot. Dish 
up the eggs in the centre of a border of fried 
bread croutons, which have previously been placed 
round the dish, to form the border. Arrange the 
dishing uj) so that between each layer of egg is a 
coating of sauce and a small quantity of Par- 
mesan cheese. Eub the yolks through a wire 
sieve, and add sufficient to cover the top of the 
dish. Place in a hot oven to brown, and serve. 

PYRAMID OF EGGS, REFORM STYLE. 

Pyramide d^CEufs a la Beforme. 

Take six hard-boiled eggs, remove the shells 
and cut them in halves lengthways. Scoop out the 
yolks, and pound in a mortar with a piece of 
fresh butter, a handful of white bread crumbs, 
which have been soaked in milk or cream, two 
ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, and a little 
chopped parsley or chives. Season with salt, 
pepper, and grated nutmeg. Pound these well 
together, then fill the whites of eggs with the pre- 
paration. Spread the bottom of a dish with a 
little of the mixture, proceed to dish up the stuffed 
eggs to a pyramidal form, so that the tojD finishes 
up with a single egg. Have ready some hard- 



POACHED EGGS, PORTUGUESE STYLE. 123 

boiled yolks of eggs, rub them through a coarse 
wh'e sieve on top of the dressed eggs. Put in a 
hot oven to brown, and serve with supreme sauce. 

POACHED EGGS, BURGUNDY STYLE. 

(Eufs j^oches a la Burgogne. 

Peel four small button onions, fry them lightly 
with a piece of butter in a small omelet pan ; add 
a small handful of chopped mushrooms, dust with 
a little flour, add a glass of w^hite wine and a little 
stock ; let it simmer for fifteen minutes. Season 
with salt, pepper, the juice of half a lemon, and a 
dessertspoonful of finely chopped chutney. Pre- 
pare some rounds of hot buttered toast, poach 
your eggs, dish up one on each of the toasts, 
thicken the sauce with a yolk of egg, and pour 
over the eggs. 

POACHED EGGS, PORTUGUESE STYLE. 

CEufs x>oches a la Portugaise. 

Take six tomatoes, all even sized, cut them in 
halves crossways, take out the pips, place them in 
a buttered saute pan in the oven for a few minutes 
to set, and fill them w^ith the following stuffing : — 
Fry four finely minced shallots, in a little butter, 
add a handful of white bread crumbs, a little 
chopped parsley and a few sprigs of tarragon, a 
small piece of beef marrow, finely chopped ; bind 
wdth a yolk of egg^ and season with salt, pepper, 
and grated nutmeg. When the tomatoes are 
stuffed put them again in the oven to brown. Place 
each on a round of hot buttered toast, on the top 
of which place a poached egg. Dish up on a 
folded napkin, garnish with parsley, and serve. 



12+ SAVOURY DISHES OF EGGS. 

POACHED EGGS WITH HAM. 

(Eiifs poches aiix Jambon. 

Poach some eggs, trim neatly and dish them up 
on thin oval slices of broiled ham. Serve with 
poivrade sauce round the eggs, and sprinkle a 
few drops of liquid meat glaze over the top. 

POACHED EGGS AND ANCHOVY. 

QJufs 2)oches a VAncliois. 

Prepare sufificient slices of toasted bread to cut 
out six rounds, each large enough to hold a poached 
egg. Butter the pieces, spread with anchovy 
paste or anchovy butter. Poach six eggs ; place 
one on each piece of prepared toast, sprinkle with 
grated Parmesan cheese, and a pinch of cayenne 
pepper, and serve. 

POACHED EGGS WITH SPINACH. 

QJufs jyoches aux Epinards. 

Prepare some rounds of toast, as described in 
the foregoing recipe, put a table spoonful of pre- 
pared spinach on each piece of buttered toast, 
poach six eggs, and place one on the top of each. 
Put a small pinch of black pepper in the centre 
of each yolk of Qgg^ and serve. 

EGGS, GRATIN STYLE. 

(Fai/s au Gratln. 

Prepare a mixture of three yolks of eggs, a 
small handful of white bread crumbs, two ounces 
of butter, two finely chopped boned anchovies, a 



EGGS, GRUYkRE FASHION 



small shallot, a sprig of parsley, both chopped fine. 
Season with pepper and salt, mix well, and spread 
over the bottom of a battered gratin dish. Allow 
it to brown slightly in the oven, take it out, 
break carefully six eggs into the dish, season to 
taste ; return to the oven for a few minutes, and 
serve as hot as possible. 



EGGS, BUCKINGHAM STYLE. 

(FAifs a la Buckingham. 

Boil six eggs until hard, carefully remove the 
yolks, shred the whites finely, also two large 
truffles. Lay the yolks in the centre of a dish, 
and the whites and truffles round them. Stand 
in the oven to keep hot. Have ready some 
bechamel sauce, to which is added a tablespoon- 
ful of grated Parmesan cheese, and a pinch of 
cayenne. "When hot, pour over the yolks, garnish 
with fried bread croutons, and serve. 



EGGS, GRUYERE FASHION. 

Qlu/s a la Gruyere, 

Melt half an ounce of butter in a stew-pan, 
add half a pound of minced Gruyere cheese ; stir 
over a slow fire ; season with a little salt, pepper, 
nutmeg, finely chopped chives and shallots — a 
teaspoonful in all, moisten with a gill of white 
stock. Allow all to get thoroughly hot ; then 
stir in four well-beaten eggs. When done, dress 
quickly on a round dish, and garnish with puff 
paste leaves (fieurons). 



S.-iF007s:V DISHES OF EGGS. 



EGGS A LA MODE DE CAEN. 

Broil some coarsely shred Spanish onions in a 
little fresh butter. When done, stir in a dessert- 
spoonful of flour, a little milk or cream ; season 
with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. Let it 
boil until it becomes thick, stirring it from time 
to time. Slice some hard-boiled eggs, and warm 
them up in the sauce ; when thoroughly hot, dish 
up, sprinkle with a little chopped parsley, and 
serve. 

FRIED EGG SANDWICHES. 



Boil some eggs until hard, take off the shells, 
and place them in cold water to cool. Cut the eggs 
in slices, and pound them in a mortar with a little 
butter and cream. Season with salt, pepper, and 
a little cayenne. Cut one or two rasped rolls into 
thin slices, butter them, and spread the mixture 
between the slices, as for sandwiches ; trim 
neatly and press. Dip each sandwich in some 
prepared frying batter, and fry in clarified butter. 



EGGS, COQUETTE STYLE. 

QAifs a la Coquette. 

Butter enough china souffle or ramekin cases 
for the number of eggs you wish to serve ; put a 
tablespoonful of fresh cream, and break carefully 
an Qgg in each ; season with pepper, salt, and a 
little grated nutmeg. Place the cases in a saute 
pan containing a little boiling water into the 
oven, and allow to bake long enough to set the 
eggs. Send to table in the cups. 



STUFFED EGGS WITH CREAM. 



STUFFED EGGS WITH NOXJILLES AND 
HAM. 

(Eufsfavcis mix Xouilles ef Jambon. 

Take six hard-boiled eggs, shell them, and cut 
them in halves ; scoop out the 3'Olks. Have ready 
some cooked nouilles (see Nonille Paste, page 194), 
cut into fine strips, warm up a teacupful with a 
little butter. Add half the quantity of minced 
ham ; season with salt, pepper and cayenne. Fill 
the whites of eggs with this preparation, dish 
them up neatl}^ Eub the yolks of eggs through 
a wire sieve over the surface, place here and there 
a small piece of fresh butter, brown with the 
salamander, sprinkle a little chopped ham over 
the top, and serve as hot as possible. 



STUFFED EGGS WITH CREAM. 

(Eiifs farcis a la Creme. 

Boil six eggs for ten minutes, take off the shells, 
cut them in halves lengthways, scoop out the 
yolks, and pound in a mortar with a small piece 
of fresh butter, a handful of white bread crumbs, 
which have been soaked in milk, a tablespoonful 
of chopped parsley, half the quantity of chopped 
chives, two raw yolks of eggs, and a tablespoonful 
of cream. Season with salt, pepper, and a little 
cayenne. Fill the mixture into the whites of 
eggs, place the remainder of the stuffing on a 
dish; dress the eggs on the top, place in a hot 
oven for ten minutes to brown, sprinkle with a 
little grated Parmesan cheese. Sauce over with 
some rich bechamel sauce^ and serve. 



128 SAVOURY DISHES OF EGGS. 



DEVILLED EGGS. 

(Eufs a la D table. 

Cut some slices from a sandwich loaf, stamp out 
some rounds with a tin cutter, about two inches 
in diameter ; fry these in clarified butter of a 
light colour. Have ready a mixture of devilled 
butter (see page 195), curry, or mulligatawny paste 
and cayenne, and spread the tops with this. 
Poach some eggs (one to each round of bread), 
trim them, lay one on each prepared crouton, dust 
with cayenne pepper, and serve as hot as possible. 

EGG AND TONGUE CROUTONS. 

Croutons aux (Eufs a VEcarlate. 

Cut some rings from a French roll, dip each 
in a little milk and flour, fry in clarified butter. 
Spread one side of them wdth a paste of pounded 
tongue, butter, and a little meat glaze. Poach 
some eggs, and la}' one on each of the prepared 
croutons; dish up on a folded napkin, garnish 
with parsley, and serve hot or cold. 

EGGS A LA ROM^AINE. 

Break six eggs, separate the yolks from the 
whites. Butter six small patty-pans, and place a 
yolk and a teaspoonful of cream in each ; season 
with pepper, salt, and a little cayenne. Beat the 
whites into a stiff froth, and dress a proportionate 
quantity on the yolks ; shape neatly with a knife 
or spoon, bake in a moderate oven from fifteen to 
twenty minutes. Dust with salt and grated 
cheese, and serve as hot as possible. 



FRIED EGGS A LA SUISSE. 129 

STUFFED EGGS A L'lTALIENNE. 

Boil six eggs until hard, take off the shells, and 
cut in halves lengthways. Scoop out the yolks 
carefull}^, and pound them with six boned Gorgona 
anchovies. Add one tablespoonful of cream, a 
piece of fresh butter, and two of grated Parmesan 
cheese. Work to a smooth paste, season with salt 
and pepper, warm up in a stew-pan with a table- 
spoonful of bechamel sauce. Fill the eggs with 
it. Dish up on a hot dish, and sauce round with 
a hot anchovy sauce. See i^age 2C>2. 

STUFFED EGGS WITH PARSLEY. 

(Eufsfarcls au Persil. 

Take six hard-boiled eggs, shell them, and cut 
them in halves lengthwise. Take out the yolks, 
pound them in a mortar with a piece of butter, a 
small handful of chopped parsley, a teaspoonful of 
corn-flour, a few drops of essence of anchovy, and 
a tablespoonful of cream. Stir over a fire in a 
small stew-pan until it boils. Season with pepper 
and salt, and fill the eggs with the sauce. Dress 
the eggs on a hot dish, sauce with a rich parsle}^ 
or maitre d 'hotel sauce, and serve. 

FRIED EGGS A LA SUISSE. 

Break six eggs into a basin. Mix w^ell with a 
small handful of grated Gruyere cheese, half an 
ounce of melted butter, a few sprigs of each finely 
chopped chives, parsley, and tarragon. Season 
with pepper and salt, drop the mixture by spoon- 
fuls in hot clarified butter, fry light brown, dish 
up and serve as hot as possible. 

S.D, K 



I30 SAVOURY DISHES OF EGGS. 



CURRIED EGGS. 

Q-luf^ an Karl. » 

Boil six eggs for ten minutes. Take off the 
shells and cut them in halves lengthwa^^s, and 
scoop out the yolks. Fry a slice of streaky bacon, 
mince up finely, mix with a dessertspoonful of 
curry paste, and the yolks of the hard-boiled eggs. 
Fill the whites with the mixture, dress on a heap 
of plain boiled rice on a dish ; stand the dish in 
the oven for a few minutes. Before serving, 
garnish with a few buds of watercress. 

FRIED EGGS A LA BONNE FEMME. 

Boil some eggs hard. When cold, peel, cut them 
into slices. Beat up a raw ^gg. Season the slices 
with pepper and salt, and dip them one by one 
in the raAv ^gg. Crumb in white bread crumbs, 
and fry in clarified butter. Drain on a cloth. 
Dish up on a folded napkin. Garnish with fried 
parsley and serve. 

BAKED EGGS, GRATIN STTLE. 

(Tlufs (J ratines. 

Boil some eggs until hard, remove the shells, 
cut them into slices, and place them e7i coiironne 
closely in a dish. Fill in the centre, and cover 
all over with the following : — A large spoonful of 
white sauce, a small piece of butter, two spoon- 
fuls of grated Parmesan cheese, the juice of half 
a lemon, four yolks of raw eggs. Season with salt, 
pepper, and a little nutmeg ; stir all quickly over 
the fire. When it begins to thicken, take it off, 
add two finely shredded eggs, and fill in the dish ; 
smooth over the border with the remainder of the 



SCRAMBLED EGGS. i"?! 



sauce, strew some fried bread crumbs, mixed 
with, grated Parmesan cheese over the top. 
Place it in a very hot oven for a few minutes to 
gratinate, and serve. 



SCOTCH EGGS. 

(Eufs i) VJ'Jcossaisp. 

Remove the shells from six hard-boiled eggs, 
cut out the centres lengthways with a long vege- 
table cutter, fill the opening with a mixture of 
half a pound of force-meat or sausage-meat, a 
tablespoonful of cream, the yolk of a raw egg, 
well mixed and seasoned. After the eggs are 
stuffed, egg and crumb them carefully, fry them 
in hot fat or clarified butter. Cut the eggs 
quickly in halves, dish them up en coiironne, so 
that each half overlaps the other. Place in the 
centre some crisped parsley. Sauce round the 
dish with tomato sauce, to which the remnants of 
the eggs finely chopped have been added. 



SCRAMBLED EGGS. 

(Eufs hrou tiles. 

Break four eggs into a basin, beat tliem up 
well, put into a stew-pan with a piece of butter. 
Season with salt and pepper, mix with a table- 
spoonful of white sauce or cream. Stir all over the 
fire until it begins to thicken ; turn out on a dish 
or plate ; garnish with parsley and toasted pieces 
of bread. 

Finely shred truffles, mushrooms, or ham, may 
be added to eggs prepared this way. 



1 32 SA VOURY DISHES OF EGGS. 



BUTTERED EGGS. 

(Eufii hrouHles an Beurre. 

Break four eggs into a bowl or basin, beat them, 
and put into a stew-pan wdth an ounce of melted 
butter, a dessertspoonful of milk or cream ; 
season with pepper and salt. Stir over a quick 
fire until it becomes thick. Dress on a piece of 
buttered toast, and serve. 

Eggs prepared thus can be varied by adding 
minced ham, tongue, or some kind of cold vege- 
tables. Asparagus points is especially recom- 
mended for making a palatable savoury dish. 

FRIED EGGS, LYONNESE STYLE. 

QJufs frits a la Lyouuaisp. 

Slice some onions very fine, season them with 
salt, pepper and cayenne, fr}'- them gently in 
butter of a golden colour. Drain off the butter, 
put them on a hot dish, squeeze the juice of half 
a lemon over them. Have ready four fried eggs, 
trim them neatly, dress them on the onions ; 
garnish with crisped parsley, and serve as hot as 
possible. 

SAVOURY EGGS, MAITRE D'HOTEL. 

G'Jufs a J a j\ fait re cVHOtcl. 

Boil four eggs until hard, take off the shells, cut 
them in halves crosswa^^s. Scoop out the yolks, 
chop them together with some cooked ham, pars- 
ley, and a few leaves of tarragon ; season with 
pepper and salt ; moisten with a little fresh 
cream. Cut the ends of the halves of whites to 
make them stand, fill them with the mixture. 



FRIED EGGS, ROBERT STYLE. 133 

dress them in a pyramid on a round dish, place 
in the oven for a few minutes to get hot through. 
Sauce over with maitre d 'hotel sauce, and serve. 

FRIED EGGS, ROBERT STYLE. 

(lAifs frits a la llohert. 

Choose six large fresh eggs, boil them until 
hard, remove the shells, prepare a force-meat with 
finely chopped ham, cooked chicken meat, fillets 
of anchovies, and a slice of fat bacon, minced 
small. Pound all well together, season with salt 
and pepper, moisten with a yolk of raw Qgg and 
a little cream. Cover the eggs with this, dip 
them in egg^ crumb in a mixture of crushed ver- 
micelli and bread crumbs, fry in hot fat or lard. 
Cut into halves, dish up, garnish with fried pars- 
ley, and serve with piquant sauce. 



Jfarinaccoue anb Cbccec Savonrice, 
etc 



CHEESE MERINGUES. 

MeruKjucs ciu Fromagc. 

"Whisk the whites of three eggs to a stiff froth, 
stir ill gently three tablespoonfuls of Parmesan 
cheese, a pinch of salt, and a little cayenne pepper. 
Have ready some boiling butter, drop the mixture 
from a dessert spoon into the butter, fry a light 
brown colour. Drain very carefully and serve 
quickly, as they will not bear to stand long, and 
should only be prepared at the last moment. 

CHEESE SOUFFLES. No. 1. 

Soiifflds cm Fro))ia(jc. 

Slake two tablespoonfuls of corn flour with a 
little milk, mix with a pint of boiling milk, work 
it well with one ounce of butter, and three table- 
spoonsful of grated Parmesan cheese, the yolks of 
four eggs well beaten, a little salt and pepper. 
AVhisk the whites of two eggs to a stiff froth, and 
mix gently with the above. Fill up three parts 
full some small buttered and floured soufHe moulds 
or cups. Bake in a quick oven for about twenty 
minutes, and serve hot in the cups. 



CHEESE BALLS. 135 



CHEESE SOUFFLES. No. 2. 

Souffles an Fromage. 

Dissolve two ounces of butter in a stew-pan, 
add one ounce of sifted flour, stir w^ell, and mix 
about half a pint of milk. Stir vigorously until 
3^ou obtain a smooth paste ; season with salt, 
white pepper, and cayenne. Now add five ounces 
of grated Parmesan cheese, work well over the fire 
for a few minutes. When a little cool add five 
yolks of eggs. AVhisk the whites of three eggs to a 
stiff froth, mix lightty, and fiJl up eighteen or more 
small paper cases ; stand them on a baking tin, and 
bake for fifteen minutes in a quick oven. 

CHEESE SOUFFLE. No. 3. 

Soufflt au Fromage. 

Take a quarter of a pound of grated cheese, two 
tablespoonfiils of flour, a small piece of butter. 
Mix all well with three yolks of eggs, season with 
salt, pepper, and cayenne. Beat the whites of 
the three eggs to a stiff froth, and mix them 
gently with the above. Place the mixture on a 
well-lDuttered dish, and bake in the oven until of 
a light brown colour. Have ready another dish, 
with folded napkin, on which the souffle is served 
immediatel}^ after it is done. 

CHEESE BALLS. 

Frifures de Fromage. 

Break two eggs into a basin, beat them until 
nearly stiff, stir in a quarter of a pound of grated 
Parmesan cheese and a dessert spoonful of corn 
flour ; season with salt, pepper and cayenne ; mix 



136 FARINACEOUS AND CHEESE SAVOURIES. 

all well together. Shape the mixture into small 
balls, and fry them in hot butter or lard until of 
a light brown colour. Drain them on a cloth, dish 
up on a folded napkin ; sprinkle with grated Par- 
mesan cheese, and serve. 

CHEESE STRAWS. 

rallies an Farmesan. 

Prepare a paste with half a pound of flour, 
quarter of a pound of grated cheese, and half a 
pound of fresh butter. Proceed making the paste 
the same way as puff paste is prepared. Roll out 
the paste rather thin, cut some strips, twist both 
ends similar to screws. Place them on a baking 
sheet, dust with fine salt and cayenne, and bake 
them in a quick oven. 

Note. — Puff paste trimmings, rolled out several 
times, sprinkled well with grated cheese, and 
seasoned with cayenne, will answer well to make 
the above. 

CHEESE TURNOVERS. 

liissolcs de Fromages. 

Prepare a mixture with a quarter of a pound of 
grated cheese, one egg, and seasoning. Eoll out 
some puff paste, cut in oblong or round pieces, strew 
some grated cheese on the paste. Place on each 
piece a spoonful of the mixture, turn over, pinch 
down the edges, egg the tops, sprinkle some fine 
cheese over them, and bake. 

CHEESE SCALLOPS. 

Coquilles de Fromaje. 

Soak a quarter of a pound of Avhite bread crumbs 
in some milk, beat up two eggs and mix with the 



CHEESE ERITTERS {ANOTHER IVAY). 137 

crumbs, add a small piece of butter, and a quarter 
of a pound of grated cheese ; mix all well together, 
season with salt and pepper, pour into scallop 
shells (previously buttered), sprinkle over with 
bread crumbs and grated cheese. Bake them in 
the oven until light brown, and serve. 

CHEESE CAKES. 

Pdlts Gateaux an Fromagc. 

Take equal quantities of flour, grated cheese 
and butter ; season with salt, pepper and cayenne. 
Beat up three eggs to six ounces of flour, mix all 
up well, fill in small patty or tartlet moulds (well 
buttered;. Bake in a quick oven and serve hot. 

CHEESE FRITTERS. 

Bei(jn('ts an Froinafjcs!. 

Put half a pint of water in a stew-pan to boil, 
add a piece of fresh butter the size of a large 
walnut ; season with salt, pepper and cayenne. 
"When the water boils, stir in sufficient sifted flour 
to form a thick paste. Then take it oft' the fire, 
and work in half a pound of grated cheese, also 
four yolks of eggs ; let it stand for a little while. 
Beat the whites of the four eggs to a froth, and 
add gradually to the mixture. Then proceed to 
fry by dropping spoonfuls of it into boiling lard 
or dripping. Drain and serve quickly. 

CHEESE FRITTERS (ANOTHER WAY). 
Beignets Souffles an Fromage. 

Put a gill of milk into a stew-pan with one 
ounce of butter ; when boiling, stir in quickly two 



FARINACEOUS AN.D CHEESE SAVOURIES. 



table spoonfuls of flour, and stir over the fire until 
the sides and bottom of the stew-pan are perfectly 
dry : then remove it from the fire, and add gradu- 
ally a quarter of a pound of grated Gruyere, and 
a quarter of a pound of grated Parmesan cheese ; 
season with pepper, a little salt, and cayenne. 
Form some small even-sized balls, drop them into 
boiling fat or lard, fry to a nice golden colour, 
drain on a cloth, dish up in a pile on a dish, 
sprinkle with grated cheese, and serve. 

CHEESE HOMINY SOUFFLES. 

Stir an ounce and a half of hominy into half 
a pint of boiling milk, work it over the fire with 
a wooden spoon until the preparation becomes 
stiff, then add half an ounce of oiled butter, one 
ounce of grated cheese, and two yolks of ^^^ : 
season with salt, white pepper and cayenne. 
Whisk the whites of two eg^s to a stiff froth, 
and add to the mixture. Butter some china 
ramekin cases, or souffle cases, fill in the mixture, 
and bake in a moderately heated oven for twenty 
minutes. 

SAVOURY SEMOLINA. 

Take two ounces of best semolina, boil it in 
half a pint of milk, stir over the fire until well 
cooked, then remove from the fire. Add one ounce 
of butter, two ounces of grated cheese, pepper, 
salt and cayenne to taste, also a teaspoonful of 
made mustard. Mix well, and pile on to a shallow 
buttered dish ; sprinkle over with bread crumbs, 
grated cheese, a few bits of butter, and brown 
in the oven. 



WELSH RARE-BIT. 139 



NOUILLES A LA. SUISSE. 

Prepare and roll out some Nouille paste, as 
directed on page 194 ; fold the rolled out pieces 
longways, and cut crossways into narrow strips. 
Loosen the strips and boil for a few minutes in 
salted water, drain, cool, and place in a stew-pan 
with one ounce of butter, one ounce of grated 
Gru^^ere cheese, and two tablespoonfuls of 
hechamel sauce. Season with pepper, and grated 
nutmeg, stir over the fire until thoroughl}^ hot ; 
dish up, sprinkle the top with freshly fried bread 
crumbs, and serve. 

WELSH RARE-BIT. No. 3. 

Cut some slices of stale bread about half an 
inch in thickness, toast it lightl}^ on both sides, 
pare off the crust, and spread one side of each 
slice with butter. Cut some thin slices of Cheshire 
or Grloucester cheese, put it into an enamelled or 
metal plated pan, add a small piece of butter 
(half an ounce to a quarter pound of cheese), 
moisten with a tablespoonful of ale, season with 
a teaspoonful of made mustard and a pinch of 
cayenne pepper, and stir over the fire until the 
cheese is melted. Pour over the prepared toast 
whilst hot, and serve. 

WELSH RARE-BIT. No. 2. 

Mince very fine half a pound of Cheshire cheese, 
mix it with one ounce of warmed butter, two table- 
spoonfuls of fresh bread crumbs, a teaspoonful of 
prepared mustard, and two well-beaten eggs. Beat 
it well for five minutes ; season with salt and 
pepper to taste, spread on buttered toast, put it 
in a hot oven just long enough to melt, and serve. 



I40 FARINACEOUS AND CHEESE SAVOURIES. 



SCOTCH RARE-BIT. 

Shred four ounces of cheese, put in a small en- 
amelled saucepan, with half an ounce of butter, 
half a teaspoonful of prepared mustard, and a sea- 
soning of pepper and salt. Place in the oven or 
in a stew-pan with boiling water just long enough 
to dissolve the cheese. Pour on a cheese dish with 
a hot water reservoir, or on buttered toast, and 
serve. If served on a cheese dish some fingers of 
toasted bread should be served with this dish. 



WELSH RARE-BIT, AMERICAN STYLE. 

Take half a pound of American cheese, remove 
the rind, and chop the cheese fine ; put it in a 
saucepan Avith a wineglassful of old port or 
brown sherry, a teaspoonful of mixed mustard, a 
teaspoonful of Worcester sauce, a little cayenne 
pepper, and a small piece of fresh butter. Place 
the saucepan with contents over a good fire ; keep 
stirring well until the whole is melted ; then add 
a well-beaten ^g^. Continue to stir until the egg 
is set. Pour this over some hot buttered toast 
already dished up, and serve immediately. 

WELSH RARE-BIT, ENGLISH STYLE. 

Cut up half a pound of cheese (Cheddar or 
Gru3'ere) very fine, mix it with an ounce of fresh 
butter, a tablespoonful of fine bread crumbs, a 
teaspoonful of mixed mustard, season with salt 
and pepper ; work all well together into a smooth 
mixture. Spread it on buttered toast, place it on 
a dish in the oven until well melted, and serve 
quickly. 



ZIGARAS A LA RUSSE. 141 



GRISINI AU GROS SEL. 

Sift half a pound of flour on to a board, make 
a well in the centre, add two ounces of oiled 
butter, one whole and one white of egg, well 
beaten, a tablespoonful of milk, a pinch of salt 
and a dust of cayenne. Mix well together, and 
work it until you obtain a smooth paste. Roll 
out into thin round strips about four inches long ; 
lay them on a baking sheet, brush over with 
milk and water, sprinkle over with a little coarse 
freezing salt, and bake in a quick oven for about 
ten minutes. Tie up in bundles fastened with 
coloured ribbon, and serve, hot or cold. Plain 
grisini sticks can be made with Vienna bread 
dough, which must be well worked, until firm, 
before it is shaped into the round strips as above 
described. 



ZIGARAS A LA RUSSE. 

Take a gill of well reduced bechamel sauce, add 
to it a tablespoonful of double cream, allow it to 
get hot, and bind with the yolk of one egg. 
Season with salt, and a pinch of Nepaul pepper ; 
when nearly cold add three ounces of linel}' 
minced rich Gruyere cheese. Divide the mixture 
into small heaps, give each the shape of a cigar, 
and enclose in a leaf of very thin nouille paste. 
To close the paste securely wet the edges with 
beaten egg. Press the ends tightly together, so 
that the cheese mixture may not escape in frying, 
dip into beaten egg and bread crumbs, shape 
again, and fry in hot butter or lard to a golden 
colour. Dish up, garnish with parsley, and serve. 



142 FARINACF.OUS AND CHEESE SAVOURIES. 



SCOTCH WOODCOCK. 

Have ready three or four pieces of vvell-Luttered 
toast, spread them thickly on one side with 
anchovy paste, place them on the hot dish, well 
covered to keep warm, while the following is pre- 
pared. Beat the yolks of three eggs, stir in two 
large table spoonfuls of hot cream, season with salt 
and pepper. Stir it in a saucepan over a quick 
fire until the sauce thickens, then pour it over the 
toast, and serve hot. 



CHEESE AND HAM TOAST. 

Melt a quarter of a pound of chopped cheese in 
a saucepan over the fire, add two tablespoonfuls 
of hot milk ; season with pepper and salt. Have 
ready some buttered toast, cut in broad fingers, 
over which lay some thin slices of slightly fried 
ham. Spread the cheese mixture over these 
thickl}^, and serve as hot as possible. 



TOASTED CHEESE. 

Fani (jriUt an Fromcuje. 

Cut some cheese into small pieces, put it in a 
saucepan with a small piece of butter, a table- 
spoonful of ale, a pinch of salt and pepper, and 
a little mixed mustard. Place the pan over the 
fire, stir w^ell until all is melted and smooth. 
Have ready some hot buttered toast, dished up 
ready for serving ; pour the mixture over the toast, 
and serve quickly. 



MACARONI AND POACHED EGGS. 143 



BROWN BREAD CHEESE SANDWICHES. 

Sandwiches de Pain noir au Fromage. 

Cut some slices of brown bread, butter them, 
cover with shoes of Cheddar cheese, sprinkle with 
cayenne, and make them into sandwiches. The 
cheese should be about a quarter of an inch thick. 
Place them on a baking sheet in a moderate oven 
until the cheese is melted, and serve as hot as 
possible. 

MACARONI. 

To cook macaroni properly proceed as follow : 
— Take half a pound of macaroni, add three 
quarts of water, which has been salted to taste. 
Let the macaroni boil for about thirty minutes, 
strain, and put back in the empty stew-pan with 
a piece of fresh butter, and stir for some minutes 
over the fire with a fork. Macaroni thus cooked 
forms the basis for many savoury dishes. The}^ 
can be served by adding tomato sauce, white 
sauce, brown sauce, grated cheese ; chopped hard- 
boiled eggs, chopped trufHes, etc. 

MACARONI AND POACHED EGGS. 

Macaroni aux (IJtifs pochcs. 

Break one pound of Naples macaroni into short 
lengths, rinse in w^ater, place in a fire-proof dish 
or saute pan in the oven, add two ounces of butter 
and enough milk to cover the macaroni. Stir 
up from time to time, as it will swell whilst 
cooking. When nearly done, season with salt, 
pepper, and grated Parmesan cheese, dress on a 
dish you intend to serve on, put again in the 
oven, with about half a pint of good brown sauce. 



144 FARINACEOUS AND CHEESE SAVOURIES. 

When quite done, poacli some eggs, la}^ them 
carefully on the top, garnish with parsley, and 
serve. 

BAKED MACARONI WITH CHEESE. 

Macaroni an Fromage. 

Boil one pound of macaroni as directed in the 
first recipe ; when drained, add a quart of milk, 
a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, and half a 
pound of grated Parmesan or Cheshire cheese. 
Mix all with the macaroni in a saucepan over 
the fire ; whilst stirring, season with pepper, and 
salt. Spread it on a buttered gratin dish, sprinkle 
fine bread crumbs, and grated cheese over the 
top. Set it in a hot oven to brown, and serve. 

MACARONI AU GRATIN. 

.1 J a Bourgeoise. 

Put some macaroni in a brown earthenware 
pot (fireproof), cover it with some beef broth, 
place it in the oven for about two hours, stirring 
from time to time, and adding some more stock, 
as required. When done, add a little hot milk, 
some grated Parmesan or Gruyere cheese, and 
season with salt and pepper. Dish up on an oval 
dish, sprinkle with fine white bread crumbs and 
grated cheese, brown with a salamander, and 
serve. 

SPARGHETTI, WITH TOMATO SAUCE. 

Sparghefti a la Tomafe. 

Sparghetti is a kind of small macaroni paste ; 
it is usually served whole. To cook same, have 



MACARONI A VITALIENNE. 145 



ready some boiling water slightly salted, steep in 
the sparghetti until soft. Strain and cool them 
in water, taking care so as not to break them. 
Put them in stew-pan, and allow to boil for 
about twenty minutes : then strain. Dish up 
neatly on a hot dish, sauce over with a rich and 
well-spiced tomato sauce, put the dish in a hot 
oven for a few moments, and serve. 

MACARONI A L'lTALIENNE. 

Take half a pound of lean beef or mutton, cut it 
into small pieces. Slice a small onion, and fry a 
golden colour in one ounce of butter ; add the 
meat, and toss over the fire until browned. Then 
add a carrot cut very small, a few sprigs of pars- 
ley, one bay leaf, a little thyme, and one clove. 
Moisten with a glass of white wine, and about a 
pint of tomato sauce. Allow to simmer for an 
hour, strain, and remove the fat. Have ready 
half a pound of boiled macaroni, well drained ; 
put this into the sauce with half an ounce of 
butter and one and a half ounces of grated Par- 
mesan cheese ; season with pepper, salt, and aro- 
matic spices. Stir over the fire for fifteen minutes, 
and serve. If too dry, add as much more sauce 
as it will absorb. 



S.D. 



Salaba anb Saucce. 



INTRODUCTION. 

Nothing can be more attractive and agreeable 
than a well-prepared salad, and nothing can be 
more disagreeable than a badly prepared salad. 
It is a well-known fact to most that salad should 
be seasoned with some mixture, which mostly 
consists of oil and vinegar, salt and pepper. 
Lettuces generally form the foundation of plain 
salads, but there are numerous other edible 
plants which are used for salads. On the Conti- 
nent almost every known vegetable is prepared 
for salad, as well as various kinds of cold meats, 
fish, game, etc. 

Although British people are fond of mixed 
pickles, which is a salad in its infancy, they do 
not, as a rule, appreciate salads the same as 
foreigners do, as they cannot bring themselves 
to consuming " green meat '' which is saturated 
with oil, which is really the first point with 
salads, although oils or other fatty substances 
used in the preparation of salads are not only 
good and wholesome in themselves, but they also 
preserve the flavour of salads in a remarkable 
degree. Good salad oil is considered the most 
digestible form in which oleaginous substances 
can be introduced to the stomach, which has a 
medical value in its combination with raw plants. 

UG 



INTRODUCTION. 147 



It is the Lucca oil or Im'ile de Provence, which has 
the way of acting upon salads to bring out and 
preserve its delicate flavour. 

Among the vegetables and herbs most suitable 
for salads, the following may be mentioned : — 

Lettuces of all kinds, endive, batavias, water- 
cress, small cress, tomatoes, dandelion leaves, 
asparagus, cooked cauliflower, cucumber, cooked 
beetroot, French beans, broad beans, potatoes, 
radishes, celery, artichokes, parsley, basil, chives, 
tarragon, chervil, mint, garlic, onions, shallots, 
sorrell and nettle-tops. 

Endeavour to have your salad vegetables as 
fresh as possible. They should merely be rinsed 
in fresh water, and drained immediately after. 
If, however, the vegetables be withered, they 
will become crisp and refreshed by steeping same 
in water for an hour or two. When trimmed, 
washed, and picked, let them remain in a cullender 
or wire basket for a time. Lastly, swdng them 
gently in a dry napkin. Do not cut the salad 
leaves, but break the foliage with your fingers, 
as required for 3'our salad bowl. 

It is in dressing where the art of salad-making 
is exhibited. There is an old and wise saying 
I remember, which runs thus : " Be a sage with 
the salt, a miser w^itli the vinegar, a spendthrift 
with the oil, and a maniac with the mixing." 

On no account begin the mixing of your salad 
until shortly before it is required, and do not 
mix the dressing until the last minute. A 
wooden or horn spoon and fork are most adapt- 
able for mixing salads. 

The salad-dressing is best left at the bottom 
of the salad bowl, and should not be stirred until 
the salad is to be eaten. All undressed salad 



148 SALADS AND SAUCES. 

vegetables are, with few exceptions, dangerously 
indigestible, and eaters cannot be too well recom- 
mended to the duty of mastication. 

In composing a salad, every plant or herb used 
for its preparation should come in to act its part, 
like notes of music. The comical master cook, 
introduced by Damoineus, was asked once what 
harmony there was in meats. " The very same,"' 
he replied, " as the third, fifth, and eighth have 
to one another in music. The main skill lies in 
this, not to mingle (mpores minlme cojhsen- 
iientes) ' tastes not well brought together — in- 
elegant.' '' And the same as the Paradisian Bard 
directs Eve, when dressing a " sallet " for her 
angelical guest (Milton's " Paradise Lost "* i. He 
gives the following curious recipe for the 
OxoLEOX : — 

Take of clear and perfectly good oyl-olive, 
three parts ; of sharpest vinegar (sweetest of all 
condiments, for it incites appetite, and causes 
hunger, which is the best sauce ) : lemon, or juice 
of orange, one part ; and therein let steep some 
slices of horseradish, with a little salt. In a 
separate vinegar gently bruise a pod of gimy 
pepper, and strain it to the other; then add as 
much mustard as will lie upon a half-crown 
piece. Beat and mingle these well together with 
the yolk of two new-laid eggs, boiled hard, and 
pour it over your sallet, stirring it well together. 
The super-curious insist that the knife with 
which the sallet herb is cut must be of silver, 
and some who are husbands of their 03d pour at 
first the oyl alone, as more apt to communicate 
and diffuse its slipperiness than when it is 
mingled and beaten with acids, which they pour 
on last of all, and it is incredible how small a 



INTRODUCTION. 149 



quantit}^ of oyl thus applied is sufficient to 
imbue a very plentiful assembly of sallet herbs. 
Here is Careme"s receipt for a 

SALADE DE POULETS A LA HEINE. 

Like all his recipes it is somewhat costly. "Dress 
in a j)oele^ or roast, four fine chickens, and when 
cold, cut them in pieces as for a fricassee. Lay the 
pieces in a basin with salt, pepper, oil, vinegar, 
whole parsley washed, a small onion sliced, or a shal- 
lot, and cover with a round piece of paper. Leave 
them in this seasoning for some hours. Boil eight 
eggs of the same size hard, and take off the shells ; 
wash six fine lettuces. Half an hour before serving, 
drain the fowls upon a napkin, separating the small 
pieces of parsley and onions ; take the leaves from 
the lettuces, preserving the hearts ; cut the leaves 
small, season them as a salad usually is, and turn 
them into a dish, laying upon them in a circle the 
eight thighs of the fowls. Li the centre put the 
wrings ; upon the top of the thighs lay the rumps 
or two of the breasts only ; surmount these with 
the fillets, laying on the smooth side upwards, 
and the next the contrary way, or upside down ; 
on these lay the two other breasts. Be careful to 
keep this entree very neat and very upright. 
Make a border of eggs, ctit in eight pieces, and 
between each quarter place upright small hearts 
of lettuces, and place it on the summit of the 
salad ; then mix in a basin a good pinch of chervil, 
or some tarragon leaves, both being chopped and 
blanched, with salt, pepper, oil. ravigote vinegar, 
and a spoonful of aspic jelly, chopped small, the 
whole well mingled ; pour it over the salad, and 
serve immediately. The vinegar used in salad 
should always be wine vinegar."" 



150 SALADS AND SAUCES. 

The Spanish saying referred to truly says, that 
to make a perfect salad there should be a miser for 
vinegar, a spendthrift for oil, a wise man for salt, 
and a madcap to stir the ingredients and mix them 
well together. This proverb is perfectly true, with 
the exception of the last member of the sentence. 
A patient and discreet man, rather than a mad- 
cap, should be entrusted with the duty of mixing 
the salad wdth its seasoning. 

Some of the French emigrants who fled lo 
England and other countries betAveen 1790 and 
1804 gained their livelihood by giving lessons in 
cookery ; and Brillat Savarin tells us, in one of 
his chapters, that when in emigration at Boston, 
in America, he taught the restaurateur Julian 
to make "(Eufs Brouilles an Fromage.'" Captain 
Collet also, he relates, made a great deal of money 
at New York, between 17D4 and 1795, in making 
ices and sorbets. There used to be two French- 
men in London who made goofl incomes by 
dressing salads, and each of them kept his 
cabriolet. One took a fee of lO.s*. 6f/., but the 
other charged a guinea. 

Three centuries ago many materials were used 
for salads which are not thought of now ; among 
others, fennel, marsh-mallow tops, hops, wild 
marjoram, elder flowers, and a species of nettle. 
Tomatoes and asparagus were also at this period 
used as salads. 

FRENCH SPRING SALAD. 

Sahide <ln Prf'tre. 

This salad is composed of the tender blades of 
3^oung maize, red wheat, or Indian corn, dande- 
lion leaves, and seedling lettuce. 



LETTUCE SALAD {PLAIN). 151 

Shred the lettuce leaves finely; chop up coarsely 
the tender blades of maize, wheat, or corn, adding 
some finely minced onions and the dandelions. 
Put all in a salad bowl, and mix with two table- 
spoonfuls of salad oil, one of vinegar ; season with 
pepper, salt, prepared mustard, a little chopped 
mint and tarragon, and mix well together. 

ENDIVE SALAD. 

Salade, Oe Chicori'e. 

Carefully clean, rinse in water, and dr}^ the 
endive leaves ; arrange it in the salad bowl, with 
some chopped onions or shallots ; garnish with 
some garden cress and pickled slices of beetroot ; 
season with salad dressing, and serve. 

LETTUCE SALAD. 

Salade de Laitues. 

Rinse some cabbage or cos lettuces ; drain and 
dry thoroughly ; break the leaves into convenient 
pieces. Prepare a dressing with finely chopped 
garden cress, tarragon, chervil, three yolks of 
hard-boiled eggs rubbed through a fine sieve, 
two tablespoonfuls of salad oil, one of tarragon 
vinegar, and a little French mustard. Work all 
until smooth, and lasth' add the lettuce, and serve. 

LETTUCE SALAD (PLAIN). 

Clean and break the lettuce as described in the 
foregoing recipe ; season over with oil, vinegar, 
chopped parsle}^, pepper and salt, but all in pro- 
portion to the quantity of salad required. 



152 SALADS AND SAUCES, 



FRENCH SALADS. 

Salades a la Francatse. 

In France salads are generally mixed sepa- 
ratelj^, that is to sa}^, they do not mix different 
kinds of salad in the same bowl, which no doubt 
is due to the difference of tastes. A Parisian 
gourmand assured me that a mixture of various 
kinds of salads, such as lettuces, small cress, 
watercress, and endive, is not good to the palate, 
as the one kind seems to kill the flavour of the 
other, and does away with the general character 
of French salads. It should therefore be borne 
in mind that a French salad consists of one kind 
only, with its respective seasoning and dressing. 

FRENCH LETTUCE SALAD. 

Salade a la Ilomaliie. 

Split some French cos lettuces down the 
stalk ; divide the leaves into three or four pieces : 
rinse in cold water : shake it well in a light wire 
basket (these are especially used for draining 
salad in France). Place the lettuces in a salad 
bowl ; season with pepper and salt ; sprinkle over 
some coarsely chopped chives, tarragon, chervil, 
and parsley ; mix with two to three parts of 
salad oil, to one part of French wine or tarragon 
vinegar. The dressing should always be mixed 
in a separate basin or in a large ladle ; a little 
French mustard may be mixed with it, if pre- 
ferred. The mixing should be done with a 
wooden fork or spoon. 

Cabbage lettuces, endives, dandelion, and other 
salad plants are prepared in a similar way. 
Pickled beetroot is usuallv mixed with small 



ENGLISH SALAD. 153 



salads, such as corn salad, cliicore, escarolles, 
American cress, watercress, etc. 

ENGLISH SALAD. No. 1. 

Salade a VAnglaiso. 

Divide some cos lettuces down the stalk, wash 
and drain them, break off the leaves, and divide 
this into convenient pieces. Pick, wash and strain 
a few leaves of mint, some watercresses, a little 
mustard and cress. Place these in a salad bowl, 
season with pepper, salt, and a small quantity of 
moist sugar ; dress with one part of salad oil and 
two of vinegar, garnish with slices of pickled 
beetroot, small quarters of hard-boiled egg^ and 



serve. 



ENGLISH SALAD. No. 2. 



Take two cabbage lettuces, one endive, rinse 
and wipe with a soft cloth ; break the leaves into 
small pieces, place them in a salad bowl ; add some 
shred celery and slices of cooked beetroot on the 
top. Season with pepper and salt, dress with some 
salad dressing, which is prepared with a small 
quantity of double cream in addition to the usual 
ingredients used for salad dressing. 

ENGLISH SALAD. No. 3. 

Clean, rinse and drain some cabbage lettuces, 
watercresses, mustard and cress, and a few spring 
onions ; break the lettuce leaves into convenient 
pieces, slice one or two ripe tomatoes, peel and 
slice a piece of cucumber. Place all alternateh^ into 
a salad bowl ; add a few slices of lemon cut into 
quarters, a small quantity of finely minced shallots: 



154 SALADS AND SAUCES. 

garnish the top with slices of lemon, cucumber 
and tomato, and serve with mayonnaise sauce. 

ENGLISH SALAD. No. 4. 

Take some white cos or cabbage lettuces, rinse 
and clean, break the leaves into strips about an 
inch broad, place them in a clean cloth, gather up 
the four corners, and thus shake out the water, in 
order to drain the salading. Throw some finely 
minced green mint amongst the lettuce, put all, 
into a salad bowl ; garnish round the salad with 
washed and scraped radishes, a few peeled button 
onions, some small bunches of garden cress. 
Season with pepper and salt, and serve with ordin- 
ary salad dressing or vinaigrette. 

FAVOURITE SALAD. 

Clean, wash and drain equal proportions of 
cabbage or cos lettuces, watercresses, small cress, 
shred celery and spring radishes. When properly 
drained put all into a salad bowl, garnish the top 
with slices of cooked beetroot, and a few slices of 
hard-boiled egg. Season and dress with two table- 
spoonfuls of salad oil, one of tarragon vinegar, and 
the juice of half a lemon, a few chopped green 
onions, or chives, with tarragon, chervil, pepper 
and salt ; mix all well, and serve. 

APPLE AND CUCUMBER SALAD. 

Saladc ilc Pommcs of dc Concomhrps. 

Peel equal quantities of cucumber and sour 
cooking apples i cored) ; cut them into thin slices ; 
season with salt, pepper and lemon juice. Place 



SUPPER SALAD. IS5 



all into a salad dish, pour over sufficient slightly 
whipped cream to cover, sprinkle a little cayenne 
pepper over the top, and serve. 

SWISS SALAD. 

Sahidc () la Siu'ssp. 

Place in a circular row into a salad bowl, ripe 
tomatoes cut in slices, cooked French beans, green 
peas, and fill the centre with slices of cooked 
beetroot. Mix these well, and season with mayon- 
naise sauce or vinaigrette. 

CELERY SALAD. 

Sal ado de Cth'rif. 

Clean the heads of white crisp celery, also some 
brown cos lettuce ; rinse and drain, shred the 
celery, along with the white parts of the lettuce 
leaves ; put into a salad bowl, season with pepper 
and salt, dress with maj^onnaise sauce, garnish with 
a few sprays of watercress, and serve. 

SUPPER SALAD. 

Prepare some white cos lettuce by cutting it 
down the stalk, break off the leaves ; rinse, 
drain, cut them into very fine strips, similar to 
julienne roots. Chop the whole of a hard-boiled 
egg and mix with the salad. Prepare a dressing 
with two yolks of hard-boiled eggs, rubbed through 
a wire sieve, mix with two spoonfuls of white 
sauce (bechamel or melted butter sauceu one 
tablespoonful of vinegar, a small quantity of 
finel}^ chopped capers and gherkins, pepper and 
salt. Pour the sauce over the salad, sprinkle a 
little chopped parsley on top, and serve. 



156 SALADS AND SAUCES. 

GERMAN SALAD. 

Salade a VAUemmidc. 

This salad is composed of sliced cold potatoes, 
brnssel sprouts, cauliflower, or any other kind of 
cold vegetable. The vegetable is cut into con- 
venient small pieces. Season with two parts of 
oil, one of vinegar, chopped parsley, pepper and 
salt. Garnish with three sliced sour apples and 
slices of cooked and pickled beetroot. 

TOMATO SALAD. No. 1. 

Tomates on Salado. 

Cut some ripe tomatoes into slices, lay them in 
a salad bowl with a few thinly cut rings of a 
large Spanish onion, sprinkle with chopped parsley, 
dust with pepper, salt, and moist or castor sugar. 
Dress with tarragon or malt vinegar and oil, serve 
with a bottle of salad dressing ; so that the guest 
may help himself to it, if he prefers richer 
seasoning. The onion rings may be left out if not 
cared for. 

TOMATO SALAD. No. 2. 

Slice some tomatoes, with a small proportion of 
cold potatoes ; arrange both neatl}^ in the salad 
bowl. Place the yolks of two raw eggs into a 
small basin, add pepper and salt to taste ; stir in 
drop by drop two tablespoonfuls of salad oil. When 
thick, add the same quantity of malt vinegar, and 
a few drops of chilli vinegar ; pour over the 
salad. Garnish with a few sprigs of parsley, shred 
celery, and serve. 



TOMATO SALAD. 157 



TOMATO SALAD. No. 3. 

Slice one pound of ripe tomatoes, half a pound of 
yellow tomatoes, a quarter of a pound of sour cook- 
ing apples, cored and peeled, half a lemon, all thinly 
sliced. Lay these alternately in a salad dish, 
season with pepper and salt. Pour over a mix- 
ture of four tablespoonfuls of vinegar, one of salad 
oil, a teaspoonful of Worcester sauce ; sprinkle 
with a little chopped parsley, and serve. 

TOMATO SALAD. No. 4. 

Peel the skin oft' the tomatoes, which is best 
done by scalding them with boiling water. Slice 
the tomatoes, mix with a few slices of cucumber, 
thinly cut, arrange these in a salad bowl, garnish 
with a few stuffed olives, some slices of hard- 
boiled egg^ cover with prepared mayonnaise sauce, 
sprinkle with lemon juice, and serve. 

TOMATO SALAD. No. 5. 

Cut some ripe red tomatoes into slices ; arrange 
these neatly in the salad dish ; garnish the top 
Avith thin rings of Spanish onions, allowing, say 
one ring to six slices of tomatoes. Prepare a sea- 
soning of two parts of oil, one of vinegar, a little 
chopped parsley and gherkin, pepper and salt 
to taste, and pour over the whole, (jrarnish with 
a few sprigs of freshly picked parsley, and serve. 

The rings of onions are not usually served ex- 
cept to gentlemen. They are simply a flavourer, 
and help to garnish. 

X.B. When assisting a lady to dishes with onions 
never give the onions with the tomatoes, unless 
you are especially requested to do so. 



SALADS AND SAUCES. 



SUMMER SALAD. 

Salade cV±:ti\ 

Cut up some cold beef into tliin slices, which 
put into a salad bowl with half the quantity of 
small lettuce leaves. Season over with, say, five 
tablespoonfuls of salad oil, two of vinegar, a tea- 
spoonful of salt, half of pepper, and a little chopped 
parsley. Mix all well together with a wooden fork 
and spoon, and serve. 

Instead of the lettuce, endive, celery, or cucum- 
ber may be used, in order to make a change. To 
vary the seasoning a little chopped tarragon and 
chervil, chopped gherkins, chopped shallots or 
scraped garlic can be added with the dressing. 
In place of beef, cold veal or mutton may be used. 
This salad is considered very wholesome ; it is a 
cheap dish, quickly prepared, and greatly appre- 
ciated on the Continent during the hot weather. 

BEETROOT SALAD. 

Salade de Betteraves. 

Cut some boiled or baked beetroot into thin 
slices, chop evenly a small mild Spanish onion, mix 
with the root, dish up. Season with pepper and 
salt, dress with oil and vinegar to taste, and serve. 

BREAKFAST OR LUNCH SALAD. 

Salade dii Dejeuner. 

Skin some ripe tomatoes by pouring boiling 
water over them. When skinned, put the tomatoes 
into cold water to get cool ; drain and dry a little, 
cut them into sections, the same as you would 
divide an orange. Slice a peeled cucumber, break 



THE POETS RECIPE FOR A WINTER SALAD. 159 



up a few cleaned lettuce-leaves into small pieces; 
put all into a salad bowl, sprinkle some finely cut 
spring onions over the salad, add some seasoning 
of oil and vinegar or salad dressing, mingle well 
together, and serve. 

WINTER SALAD, 

Salade cVIf/'cer. 

Peel some small Spanish onions, stamp out the 
centre with a long cutter, place a small piece of 
fresh butter in the centre of each, braize them in 
the oven until quite tender. When cold, cut them 
into slices, arrange the slices neatly into a salad 
bowl. Clean a few sardines, take out the bones, cut 
them into small fillets, and lay upon the onions. 
Garnish the top with slices of hard-boiled egg. 
Prepare a dressing with ma3'onnaise sauce, chopped 
tarragon and chervil, chopped gherkins, pepper 
and salt to taste : pour over the salad and serve. 

THE POET'S RECIPE FOR A WINTER 
SALAD. 

This recipe is ascribed to the Rev. Sydney Smith. 
Although it has appeared in several cookery books 
and magazines during the course of its existence, 
I repeat it in this book, as an excellent salad can 
be prepared when putting the precept into prac- 
tice. 

" Two boiled potatoes, passed tliroiigli kitclien sieve, 
Softness and smoothness to the sahid mive ; 
Of mordant mustard add a single spoon. 
Distrust the condiment which bites too soon ; 
Yet deem it not, thou man of taste, a fault, 
To add a double quantity of salt. 
Four times the spoon with oil of Lucca crown, 
And twice with vinegar procured from town ; 



ibo SALADS AA'D SAUCES. 



The flavour needs it, and your poet begs 

The pounded yellow of two well-boiled eggs ; 

Let onions' atoms lurk within the bowl, 

And, scarce suspected, animate the whole ; 

And, lastly, in the flavoured compound toss 

A magic teaspoon of anchovy sauce. 

Oh, great and glorious I Oh. herbaceous meat I 

'T would tempt the dying anchorite to eat ; 

Back to the world he'd turn his weary soul, 

And dip his fingers in the salad bowl. 

Then, though green turtle fail, though venison's tough, 

And ham and turkey are not boiled enough, 

Serenely full the epicure may say, 

'Fate cannot harm me — I have dined to-dav I ' " 



BEETROOT AND EGG SALAD. 

Salade aux (Eiifs et Betteraves. 

Cut some cooked beetroot into medium-sized 
slices, also the same quantit3^ of hard-boiled eggs, 
cut as the beetroot. Season with one part ofuil, 
two of vinegar, pepper and salt ; sprinkle a little 
freshly chopped parsley over the top, and serve. 

DUTCH BEETROOT SALAD. 

Salade de Betteraves a la Holkuidaise. 

Cut the cooked beetroot used for this salad into 
slices ; stamp these out with a fancy cutter, place 
them on a deep dish, and cover with vinegar. 
Boil some eggs hard ; when cold, separate the Avhite 
from the yolk. Chop the whites coarsel}^, and 
stir into some aspic jelly, which must be whipped 
until it becomes a stiff but liquid froth. Put a 
little of half-set clear aspic jelly into a mould, 
cover next with a layer of pickled beetroot, shred 
lettuce and small cress, pouring a little whipped 
aspic between each layer. Proceed until the 



CUCUMBER SALAD. i6i 



mould is filled up, put it into the cool to set. 
When firm, turn out on a dish, with a napkin. 
Spread some thick mayonnaise sauce over top 
and side, thinly. Garnish all over with the slices 
of drained beetroot, putting little spra^'S of parsley 
and the yolks of Qgg between the vacant spaces, 
and serve. 

EGG SALAD. 

Salade aux (Eufs. 

Boil tlie eggs hard, steep them into cold water 
to get cool, remove the shell, and cut them into 
slices. Place in a salad bowl or deep dish, season 
with salt, pepper, oil, vinegar, a little chopped 
parsley, and serve. 

CUCUMBER AND TOMATO SALAD. 

Salade de Coiicombres et Tomates. 

Chop some shallots finel}', sprinkle over the 
bottom of a salad dish, peel and cut transparent 
slices of cucumber. Lay these into the dish with 
one-third of the quantity of sliced ripe tomatoes. 
Squeeze half a lemon over this, season with pepper 
and salt, mix gently, and ornament the top with 
thin slices of lemon, cut into quarters, slices of 
cucumber and tomato. Sprinkle with a little 
freshly chopped parsley, dress with oil and vinegar, 
and serve. 

CUCUMBER SALAD. 

Salade dc Concomhres. 

Peel and slice the cucumber very thin, season 
with pepper and salt, place it on a hair sieve to 
drain, dress with two parts of salad oil to one of 

S.D. M 



\ 

162 SALADS ANJ^ sauces. 



vinegar. Dish up into small glass dislies, sprinkle 
a little chopped parsley over the top, and serve. 
This salad is principally served with boiled salmon, 
roast lamb, hot or cold, and is considered most 
digestible. 

GERMAN CUCUMBER SALAD. 

Salade de Coiicovibres a VAllemandc 
Shce a quantity of peeled cucumber, chop rather 
coarsely half a Spanish onion, season with salt and 
white pepper. Place this, mixed up, in a dish, 
cover over with another dish for twenty minutes, 
then drain. Dish up in a salad bowl, garnish the 
top with small rings of onion and chopped pars- 
ley, dress with oil and vinegar, adding a few drops 
of chilli vinegar, and serve. 

SWISS CHICKEN SALAD. 

Salade de Poulet a la Suisse. 
Prepare some finely shred lettuces, celery, and 
beetroot, fill up in a border mould, add some 
seasoning and aspic jelly to set it. When firm, turn 
out ona dish. Have the white portions of a cold 
fowl picked from the bones, cut these into small 
shreds, pile it in the centre of the dish ; pour over, 
to cover it, a little thick mayonnaise, enriched with 
a small quantity of whipped cream. Garnish the 
top of the border with thin rings cut from whites 
of eggs, and some rings stamped out of slices of 
beetroot. Chop a small truffle finely, sprinkle 
over the top, and serve. 

;SHRIMP SALAD. 

Salade d'llcrevisses. 
Pick some shrimps or crayfish tails, mix these 
with chopped red chillies and sliced cucumber, 



POTATO SALAD. 163 



season with pepper and salt. Dish up in a heap 
on a deep dish, dress with oil and vinegar. Gar- 
nish with slices of cucumber and parsley. 

COLD MEAT SALAD, FRENCH STYLE. 

Salade de Viande a la Francaise. 

Cut some cold roast or boiled meat into very 
thin slices, about two or three inches in length, 
and one inch broad. Chop finely four anchovy 
fillets, one shallot, one small button onion, and a 
little parsley. Place these in a salad bowl, mix 
with two tablespoonfuls of oil, one of wine vine- 
gar, a dessertspoonful of tarragon vinegar, a little 
French mustard, pepper and salt. Stir well and 
add the cold meat slices ; put in a few at a time, 
so as to get the seasoning thoroughly incorporated. 
Cover the bowl, and let it stand for two hours, then 
dish up. Garnish with parsley and pickles, and 
serve. 

POTATO SALAD, No. 1. 
Salade de Fommes de Terre. 

Cut up some cold potatoes into round or oblong 
slices, the thickness of a penny piece. Rub the 
salad bowl with a small cut onion, a little garlic 
or shallot ; lay in the slices of potatoes in rows, 
garnish with pickled red cabbage, slices of pickled 
beetroot, sprigs of parsley, and a few small 
bunches of watercress. Pour over a seasoning of 
two parts of oil, one of vinegar, pepper, salt, 
chopped parsley, and a little cayenne. 

POTATO SALAD, No. 2. 

Cut some boiled potatoes, when not quite cold, 
into thin- slices ; mince up finely some pickled 



i64 SALADS AND SAUCES. 

cucumbers, gherkins, button onions, and chillies. 
Mix these and place in a salad bowJ, season with 
pepper and salt, dress with mayonnaise sauce, and 
garnish with some capers and thin strips of filleted 
Gorgona anchovies. Sprinkle a little chopped 
parsley over the salad, and serve. 



Cut the potatoes into thin slices, put them in a 
salad bowl, mix with one part of vinegar, two of 
salad oil, a little chopped chives and parsley, a 
small quantity of chopped capers, season with 
pepper and salt. Stir all well, so as to incorporate 
all the seasoning. Garnish with trimmed olives, 
mixed pickles, slices of hard-boiled ^gg^ and serve. 

FRENCH POTATO SALAD. 

Fommes de Terre oi Salade a la Francaise. 

Pick out some small round potatoes, boil or steam 
them in their jackets, peel and slice them whilst 
warm, place the slices in layers into a salad bowl ; 
season each layer with a little pepper, salt, chopped 
chives, parsley and shallots. Beat up thi'^e parts 
of oil, and one of vinegar, with a small quantity 
of French mustard. Acid this to the salad, stir it 
gently with a wooden fork and spoon. Garnish 
the salad with sliced pickled gherkins, olives, and 
pickled beetroot, and serve. 

GERMAN POTATO SALAD. 

Salade de Pommel de Terre a VAllemande. 

The ingredients for a real German potato salad 
are, small round red potatoes, some sardines, beet- 



POLISH SALAD. 165 



root and celery, anchovies, capers and olives. 
The potatoes are boiled in their jackets, peeled, 
sliced rather coarsely whilst warm, and placed in 
the salad bowl, the inside of wdiich has previously 
been rubbed with a piece of garlic. The sardines 
are wiped, boned and cut into small pieces, the 
beetroot, pickles and celery are cut into shreds, 
the capers and turned olives chopped rather 
coarsely. All these ingredients are added to the 
salad, and well mixed. The dressing to the propor- 
tion of three tablespoonfuls of salad oil is prepared 
as follows :— Press the yolks of three hard-boiled 
eggs through a sieve into a basin, add pepper, salt, 
a little German mustard and a small quantity of 
paprika pepper; stir well w^ith a wooden spoon, and 
add by degrees, the oil, with one or two table- 
spoonfuls of strong wine vinegar, and a teaspoon- 
ful of castor sugar. When well mixed, add two 
tablespoonfuls of thick cream. Pour this dressing 
over the salad just before serving, and sprinkle 
over w^ith some chopped parsley. The anchovies 
are filleted, cut into strips, and laid across the salad 
in the lattice-work fashion. 



POLISH SALAD. 

Salade a la Polonalso. 

Cut some lobster-meat and cold fish (salmon or 
turbot) into coarse dice, moisten with a little lemon 
juice and sherry. Cut two large peeled apples =^= 
into slices, also the same quantity of ripe toma- 

* When apples are used for salad, they should as soon 
as the3^ are cut be thrown into cold water, tojn'event them 
from gettinf? brown; when required for mixing the}' 
should be wiped with a soft cloth. 



1 66 SALADS AND SAUCES. 

toes. Slice two limes, and a piece of encumber. 
Rub a salad bowl with a cnt onion. Arrange all 
the above in neat layers in the bowl, cover with 
a stiff mayonnaise sauce, garnish the top with 
slices of cucumber, rings of onions and lemons, 
turned olives, capers, and lobster coral ; sprinkle 
with cayenne pepper, and serve. 

BOLOGNA SALAD. 

Cut some Bologna sausage into thin slices, take 
off the skin, dish up in circular rows or en couronne 
with alternate slices of hard-boiled egg. Prepare 
a salad of shred lettuce, beetroot and celery, 
seasoned with tartare sauce ; fill in the centre of 
the dish in a heap, sprinkle with chopped parsley, 
and serve. - 

FLEMISH SALAD. 

Salade a la FlamancJe. 

Cut off the heads and tails of three Dutch 
herrings (souced), wipe off the skin, cut them 
slantwise from the bone, divide the fillets in two 
small strips. Put them into a salad bowl, and add 
three small sour cooking apples, peeled and shred, 
a dozen slices of cooked beetroot cut into squares, 
a little shred celery, and a few cold brussels 
sprouts. Season with oil, vinegar, pepper, salt, 
chopped chives or green onions, mix thoroughly, 
and serve. Picked prawns or shrimps may be 
added to this salad, when in season. 

HAMSALAD. 

iSdlade tie Jamhon. 

Cub some very thin slices of raw Westphalian 
or cooked York liam, roll then up into olives. 



'USSIAN SALAD. y&j 



Prepare some cabbage lettuce as for salad, and place 
the leaves cut small in the centre of a deep dish 
piled np. Arrange the ham olives with some 
washed and wiped spring radishes round the 
lettuce. Garnish with quarters of hard-boiled 
eggs, slices of pickled beetroot, small bunches of 
watercress or small cress, and serve "with an 
ordinary salad dressing, which is placed on the 
table separately in sauce boat. 

ITALIAN SALAD. No. 1. 

Salade a Vltalienne. 

Prepare a mixture of a variety of cooked vege- 
tables, such as potatoes, beetroot, French beans, 
peas, celery, brussels sprouts, buds of cauliflower, 
haricot beans, etc. Cut the potatoes and beetroot 
into slices, stamp these out with a small plain or 
fancy round cutter, cut up the other vegetables 
in conveniently sized slices, with the exception of 
the peas and haricot beans, which are left whole. 
Prepare equal quantities of each kind, put them 
into a basin, add a little shred cooked ham, fowl, 
or game, pickles and anchovies ; season with salt, 
]:)epper, and tartare sauce ; mix well together, yet 
lightly. Dish up in a salad bowl, garnish with a 
few turned olives, capers, and some slices of mari- 
nated tunny fish {tlion marine). 

RUSSIAN SALAD. 

Salade a la Ihtsse. 

This salad is generally used for garnishing 
aspic borders, also for cold meat and fish entrees. 
It is composed of a macedoine of cooked vegetables, 
cut into little dice, or scooped out into oblong or 



1 68 SALADS AND SAUCES. 

round shapes. The mixture consists of beetroot, 
carrots, gherkins, parsnips, a few capers, crayfish 
tails, lobster meat, or prawns; ham, tongue or any 
other kind of cooked cured meat are cut up in 
dice. All these ingredients are mixed in a basin 
and seasoned with very stiff tartare sauce. It is 
then dished up in a salad bowl, or set in aspic jelly. 
When dished up, garnish with small round balls of 
pressed Russian caviare and finely scraped horse- 
laclish. 

TARTARE SALAD A LA SOYER. 

Make a very thin flat border of fresh butter, 
about half an inch from the edge of the dish 3'ou 
intend to serve the salad on, cut some hard-boiled 
shelled eggs into quarters lengthwise ; fix these 
upright close to each other, on to the border, 
arrange them so that the j^olk and white are set 
alternately ; if the tips of the eggs are cut off 
they will stand firmer on the border. Lay in the 
centre a layer of freshly cleaned and drained 
green salad, some small pieces of lobster meat 
over this ; season and dress with salt, pepper, nut- 
meg, chopped onions, parsley, a little oil and vine- 
gar ; garnish with slices of gherkins and stoned 
olives, and serve. 

ITALIAN SALAD. No. 2. 

Salade a Vltalienne. 

E-emove the white parts of the meat from the 
bones of a cold roast or boiled fowl, cut it into 
small strips {a la jtdienne)^ shred a little lean 
ham, the same quantity of tongue ; mix amongst 
the chicken meat. Place all in the centre of a 



SALMON TROUT MAYONNAISE A LA BALOISE. 169 



dish, make a border round the dish of finely shred 
lettuces, endives, and celer^^ Stamp out some 
rounds of sliced beetroot and artichoke bottoms, 
garnish the border with same. Sauce the centre 
with mayonaise dressing, decorate with rings of 
hard-boiled white of eggs, and serve. 



TRUFFLE SALAD. 

Salade aux Truffes. 

This salad consists of finely shred black Peri- 
gord truffles, with an equal quantity of shred 
white stalks of celery, about an inch long. It is 
lightly seasoned with royal salad sauce, dished up 
in a heap in the centre of a dish. Garnish round 
the edge with chopped whites and yolks of hard- 
boiled eggs, and serve. 

SALMON TROUT MAYONNAISE A LA 
BALOISE. 

Boil slowly one small salmon trout ; when 
cold, remove the skin, cut the fish into neat 
pieces, put the remnants of fish from bones in a 
mortar, work to a paste, season with pepper and 
a little ground mace, adding a little liquid aspic 
jelly. Mask a border mould with aspic jelly, 
decorate the bottom and sides with macedoine of 
vegetables which are tossed in a little liquid aspic 
before use. Fill up the mould alternately with 
layers of fish-paste, and stiff mayonnaise sauce to 
which some strong dissolved aspic has been added ; 
now put it on the ice to cool. AVhen set, turn out 
on a dish. Arrange the pieces of salmon trout 
with finely shred lettuce in the centre, cover with 
mayonnaise sauce, garnish with a border of small 
garden cress, endive, and lobster coral. 



lyo SALADS AND SAUCES. 

GAME SALAD. 

Salade de Gib lev. 

E-emove the meat of any kind of cold roast 
game from the bone, cut it into neat pieces, put 
these in a deep dish, season with pepper and 
salt. Pour over some Lncca oil, a little tarragon 
vinegar, and the juice of a lemon ; lay a bay leaf 
and a few slices of lemon with the meat, and let it 
stand for a few hours, turning it from time to time, 
so as to incorporate the seasoning with the meat. 
Shred some clean and dry lettuce leaves very 
finely, place some of these at the bottom of a 
salad bowl or deep dish, then a layer of the meat, 
and finish up with a layer of meat. See that 
the last layer is neatly and smoothly arranged. 
Ornament the top with some slices of hard-boiled 
eggs. Pour some tarragon mayonnaise over the 
salad just before it is served. The dish may be 
garnished with slices or quarters of hard-boiled 
eggs, curled celery, and neatly cut dice of aspic 
jelly. 

AMERICAN SALAD. 

Salacle a VAmericaine. 

Take the white leaves of a solid, close-hearted 
cow-cabbage, cut them into fine shreds, mix with 
a few pickled chilli pods. Dish up, season with 
mayonnaise sauce, and serve. 

INDIAN SALAD. 

Salade a Vlndlenne. 

Pick the leaves and flowers of a giant nas- 
turtium plant, steep them in cold water, drain 
in a napkin or soft cloth. Cut the leaves into 



GERMAN LOBSTER SALAD. 171 



small pieces, add a small quantity of peeled and 
cored apple slices and some thinly sliced encumber. 
Mix up and put in a salad bowl, garnish with 
slices of limes, small bunches of mustard and cress, 
and a few crimson capsicum pods and the nastur- 
tium flowers. Serve with a mayonnaise sauce in 
which has been incorporated some preserved 
tamarinds, and a little finely chopped garlic and 
shallot. 

In India this salad is also served with a kind 
of vinaigrette sauce prepared with two parts of 
vinegar, one of oil, salt, black pepper, cayenne, 
and chopped parsley and moist sugar. 

LOBSTER SALAD. 

Salade de Homard. 

Take the meat out of the lobster shell, cut it into 
small pieces, place it alternately with layers of 
small pieces of lettuce and endive in a salad bowl 
or deep dish. Season with pepper and salt, dress 
with oil and vinegar, or mayonnaise sauce. Gar- 
nish with quarters of hard-boiled eggs, sliced 
beetroot, fillets of anchovies and parsle}^ 

Almost an}^ kiiid of cold fish can be prepared in 
this w^ay. 

GERMAN LOBSTER SALAD. 

Pick the flesh out of the body and claws of one 
or more large lobsters, ready boiled, cut it into 
longish strips, and lay them in a salad bowl. 
Mince up according to the quantity of salad re- 
quired some shallots, parsley, tarragon, chervil 
very fine, season with salt, pepper, oil and vinegar 
in proportion, and mix up with the lobster meat. 
Pour over some mayonnaise sauce made with yolks 



1/2 SALADS AND SAUCES. 



of eggs, oil, salt, a little chilli vinegar, and a glass 
of Rhine wine. Garnish with coarsely chopped 
whites and yolks of eggs, lobster coral, a few 
boned and rolled anchovies, and capers. A few 
small round caviare croutons may be dressed in a 
border round the dish. 

SALADE DU GOURMET. 

Shred the white parts of some cos lettuce 
leaves, the white stalks of some celerj" verj" fine. 
Season with salt, pepper, and ca3^enne : dress with 
a small quantity of roj^al salad sauce ; pile up 
lightly but evenly in a deep dish. Garnish 
round the edge with a border of thin slices of Lyons 
sausage and tongue, so that one slice overlaps 
the other, sprinkle the top with coarsely chopped 
truffles and j^olks of hard-boiled eggs, which are 
rubbed through a coarse wire sieve. Garnish the 
dish with parsley, and serve. 

SALADE A LA CARRANOVA. 

Cut equal quantities of beetroot, white celer}^, 
artichoke bottoms and black truffles into thin 
strips (// la julienne) about an inch and a half in 
length, place them in a bowl, and season with a 
little mayonnaise sauce in which has been incor- 
porated a small quantity of French mustard. 
Mix lightly, so as not to break the vegetable ; dish 
up in the centre of a deep round dish ; sprinkle 
over with chopped parsle}^ and chopped hard- 
boiled yolks of eggs, and serve. 

MAYONNAISE DRESSING. 

Beat up the yolks of two raw eggs with a little 
salt. Use a wooden spoon, and stir until thoroughly 



TARTARE SAUCE. 173 



smooth. Add a dessertspoonful of thickly mixed 
mustard ; pour in by degrees, whilst stirring, three 
quarters of a pint of salad oil, a quarter of a pint 
of tarragon or malt vinegar, a dessertspoonful of 
anchovy sauce. Stir until it has the appearance 
of a creamy substance. This dressing will keep 
for a long time if kept in a corked bottle. It will 
improve its keeping properties if a tablespoonful 
of boiling water is stirred in drop by drop just 
before botthng. 

ROYAL SALAD SAUCE. 

Sauce froide a la lioyale. 

Pour in a mortar six yolks of hard-boiled eggs, 
six Gorgona anchovies, washed, wiped, and boned, 
a small handful of capers, three tablespoonfuls of 
French mustard, together with two yolks of raw 
eggs ; then add a handful of parboiled and well 
squeezed tarragon, chervil and chives, work in 
by degrees three quarters of a pint of salad oil. 
diluted with a gill of vinegar. The whole must be 
worked into a smooth substance, which is passed 
through a line hair sieve or tammy cloth. Salt, 
pepper and cayenne may be added before or after 
it is passed. 

This makes an excellent dressing for all kinds of 
salading ; it is also used for broiled fish or meat 
dished, served a la farfare. 

TARTARE SAUCE. 

Prepare some mayonnaise sauce, adding there- 
with a small quantity of French mustard, a few 
finely minced gherkins, a teaspoonful of anchovy 
essence, and some chopped chives, or spring 
onions, tarragon and chervil leaves. 



174 SALADS AND SAUCES. 



SALAD DRESSING A LA REFORME. 

Shred finely some large black truffles, the 
whites of hard-boiled eggs, three times the 
quantity in proportion to the truffles ; add some 
mayonnaise sauce to this. Stir up gently, and 
serve with any kind of salads of fish, poultry, or 
game. 

VINAIGRETTE SAUCE. 

This sauce is principally used for cold meat 
salads, but will serve equally as an ordinary 
salad dressing for green salads. 

A vinaigrette sauce is composed of two parts 
of salad oil, one of vinegar, pepper and salt to 
taste, a few chopped capers, gherkins, shallots or 
chives, tarragon and chervil leaves, and parsley, 
all finely chopped. 

Besides salads, vinaigrette is suitabl-e for al- 
most any kind of cold meat, fish and vegetables : 
and especially for calf's head, calf's brain, salmon, 
trout, turbot, sliced hard-boiled eggs, asparagus, 
green artichokes, fonch of artichokes, etc. When 
so dressed they are termed a la vinaigrette^ and 
are garnished with capers, gherkins, fillets of 
anchovies, beetroot, hard-boiled yolk and white of 
eggs, etc. 

MY "OWN" SALAD DRESSING. 

Boil two eggs until hard, put them into a 
basin of cold water until quite cold. Cut 
them in halves, take out th6 yolks and rub 
through a fine sieve with a wooden spoon ; mix 
this with a tablespoonful of fresh cream, add 
three tablespoonfuls of Lucca oil, a teaspoonful 
of fine salt, one 'half of castor sugar, one half of 



SALAD MIXTURE. 175 

prepared mustard and cayenne, or Nepanl pepper 
to taste. Mix these well together, and add grad- 
ually three tablespoonfuJs of malt or wine vinegar ; 
stir until thoroughly smooth. Pour it down the 
side of the salad bowl, and mix it when the 
company is ready for it. The whites of egg can 
be cut in slices, and used for garnishing the top 
of the salad. 

MAYONNAISE SAUCE. 

Take three yolks of raw eggs, place them in 
a round-bottomed basin ; add a little pepper and 
salt. Stir round quickly with a wooden spoon, 
adding drop by drop, about half a pint of Lucca 
oil, and half that quantity of vinegar. Stir 
until it has the appearance of a firm and smooth 
substance. 

TARRAGON MAYONNAISE SAUCE. 

Place three yolks of raw eggs in a round 
basin, season with pepper and salt ; stir with a 
wooden spoon, adding by degrees half a pint of 
salad oil, half a gill of tarragon vinegar, the 
juice of half a lemon, and a few drops of chilli 
vinegar. 

Mayonnaise sauces can be flavoured with shallot 
vinegar, basil vinegar, tomato vinegar, according 
to the palate or taste. 

SALAD MIXTURE. 

The following ingredients prepared in the pro- 
portions stated make an excellent dressing for 
vegetable salads : — 

Three yolks of hard-boiled eggs, rubbed through 
a sieve ; one dessertspoonful of English mustard ; 



176 SALADS AND SAUCES. 

one dessertspoonful of salt ; four dessertspoon- 
fuls of Worcester sauce or mushroom ketchup ; 
lour tablespoonfuls of salad oil ; four dessert- 
spoonfuls of vinegar ; and one teaspoonfal of 
white or black pepper. All is stirred up well, and 
poured over the salads, in proportion to the 
quantity of salad required. 

PARISIAN SALAD DRESSING. 

Take three hard-boiled eggs, keep the whites by 
you ; break two raw eggs, separate the yolks from 
the whites and drop the whites into boiling water to 
harden them, and put them with the other whites. 
Mash up in a bowl the three yolks of hard-boiled 
eggs ; add the raw yolks to moisten, season with 
salt, white pepper and cayenne ; stir in drop by 
drop, five tablespoonfuls of salad oil and two of 
tarragon or wine vinegar, also half a tablespoonful 
or more of finely chopped onions, the same of 
chervil and chives. When worked quiet smooth, 
add either two tablespoonfuls of rich cream, or 
else melted butter, then chop finely the whites of 
the eggs, add them to the salad, and use the 
dressing as required. 

CHRYSANTHEMUM SALAD. 

Pick, wash and drain the flowers, place them 
in a basin and mix with a little vinaigrette or 
mayonnaise sauce; arrange in a heap in a glass 
dish, garnish with shredded truffles, celery and 
Indian pickles, and serve. 

Chrysanthemum flowers are also very delicious 
if cooked in slightly salted water with a clove, and 
served hot with a chutney or curry sauce. 



Sour ifruit Salabi 



Sour fruit salads are served "witli any kind of 
roast game, birds and poultry, and are most 
delicious served with boiled or braised salmon and 
trout. 

TOMATO AND PEAR SALAD. 

Salade aiix Tomates H Poircs. 

Cut some ripe tomatoes and thinly peeled pears 
into slices, in equal proportions, lay them in a deep 
dish, dust with salt and pepper, cover over with 
mayonnaise sauce, and serve, 

LEMON AND APPLE SALAD. 

Salade aux Citron ef Pomines. 

Peel some thin rinded Messina lemons and 
green sour cooking apples. Core the latter ; slice 
equal quantities of lemon and apples into a dish. 
Season with moist sugar, pepper and salt, dress 
with oil and vinegar ; mix ^vell, and serve. 

APPLE SALAD. PERIGORD STYLE. 

Salade de Fommes a la Perigord. 

Procure some sour codling apples, cut them 
into thin slices, stamp out the cores, but do not 
s.D. ^^7 ^ 



178 SOUR FRUIT SALADS. 

peel them. Slice an equal quantity of cucumber ; 
put tliese into a salad bow J, and add a few thin 
rings of Spanish onion, and a few black truffles cut 
into thin shaves. Mix all well, keeping a few 
of the best slices of each to garnish the top, with 
a few turned olives. Season with pepper and 
salt ; dress with oil and vinegar, and serve. 

PEAR AND PLUM SALAD. 

Salacle de Poires et rruneaiix. 

Skin some large ripe but sound Victoria plums, 
stone them, and cut into neat slices. Slice some 
pickled pears, and arrange the slices with the 
plums on a dish. Sprinkle with a little salt and 
pepper, cover over with maj^onnaise sauce, decorate 
the top wdth chopped truffles, and serve. 

MELON SALAD. 

Salade de Melons. 

Slice the melon into a deep dish, add some 
slices of Spanish onions between, season with 
pepper and salt, cover over with a plate or small 
dish ; let it stand for a half an hour. Pick out the 
slices of onions, dress with two parts of salad oil, 
one of vinegar, and one of lemon juice ; dust with 
a little cayenne pepper, and serve. 

ORANGE SALAD. No. 1. 

Scdade d'Oranges. 

Wipe and peel some juicy Valencia or any 
other kind of acid-flavoured oranges ; cut them 
into slices, remove the pips, arrange the slices 



ORANGE SALAD. 179 



on a deep dish. Dress with salad oil and lemon 
juice, season with a little cayenne, and serve with 
almost any kind of roast game or poultry. 

ORANGE SALAD. No. 2. 

Take four sweet oranges (Valencia or St. 
Michaers) and two Seville oranges, peel them and 
slice them into thin rings, remove the pips. Place 
these alternately on a dish, in circular rows, so 
that each slice overlaps the edge of the other. 
Squeeze two small lemons over the fruit, also a 
little white wine vinegar, season with pepper, 
salt and cayenne, and serve. 

OilAir(M SALAD. No. 3. 

Peel some Valencia and blood oranges, taking 
care not to leave any white skin on the flesh ; 
break the oranges into their divisions, which 
must be done carefully, so as not to break the skin. 
Put the piece? into a salad bowl, pour over two 
parts of oil, one of vinegar, and the juice of a 
lemon. Season with salt, pepper and cayenne ; 
dust with castor sugar, cover over, and let it stand 
for an hour, then serve. 



©riental H)i6be0. 



INDIAN KEDGEREE. 

Kedgere cle Poisson a VIndlenne. 

Remove the bones from any kind of cold iisli 
(salmon, turbot, cod, etc.); chop up an onion 
finely, broil in a stew-pan with a piece of butter. 
Stir in a handful of dessicated cocoanut, finely 
grained, add half a pint of milk, and the pieces of 
fish ; also one or two hard-boiled eggs, chopped 
coarsel}' ; season to taste. Let all simmer gently 
whilst stirring ibr a quarter of an hour, then add 
a dessertspoonful of curry paste, and two tea- 
spoonfuls of boiled rice. Mix well together. Let 
it simmer for another few minutes ; then dish 
up and serve with some freshly toasted bread or 
milk biscuits. 

INDIAN BHAURTA. 
Bhaurte a VIndienne. 

Boil in white stock two small onions, chop finely, 
mix with some mashed potatoes, season to taste. 
Butter a border or other mould, strew with fine 
bread crumbs, sprinkle with curry powder. Fill 
the mould with the above, and bake in a moderate 
oven for a quarter of an hour. Turn out on a 
round dish, and serve with curry sauce. 

180 



CURRIED APPLES. iSi 



MA.DRAS HARD-EGGS. 

(Eufs clu rs (l la Madras. 

Slice thinly a large onion, put it in a stew-pan 
witli a piece of butter, and fry until light brown. 
Take out the onion slices, acid a teaspoonful of 
curry powder, also a teaspoonful of curds to the 
butter in the stew-pan. Let it simmer for a few 
minutes^ thicken with a tablespoonful of flour, 
moisten with a pint of gravy. Let all boil for 
ten minutes ; then add four hard-boiled eggs^ cut 
into thick slices or quarters ; also the onions. 
When thoroughly hot, dish up and serve. 

CURRIED POTATOES AND APPLES. 

Pommes de Tevre et Fommes an Karl. 

Slice six cold potatoes. Peel and slice half the 
quantity of sour apples. Egg the slices of pota- 
toes, crumb them in a mixture of bread crumbs, 
chopped parsley, and curry powder, and fry. 
Dust the apples with flour, egg, crumb, and fry 
them. Dish them up in alternate slices, en 
couronne ; dust well with curry powder, pile up 
some fried parsley in the centre, and serve. 

^ CURRIED APPLES. 

Pommes an Kari. 

Peel, core, and cut into rings four large apples ; 
dust the rings well on both sides with curry 
powder. 

Mince half a dozen shallots, fry them lightly in 
butter ; add the apple rings, and fry them gently 
until tender, and of a nice brown colour. Have 
ready a good curry sauce ; dish up the apples 



ORIENTAL DISHES. 



neatly on a round dish, sauce over with the curry 



sauce, and serve. 



ORIENTAL SAVOURY OF BEETROOT. 

Betterave a VOrientale. 

Choose a nice-sized pickled beetroot, cut some 
round slices, about the size of a crown piece, and 
a quarter of an inch thick ; dust with cayenne 
pepper ; put a layer of anchovy paste on each 
piece. Prepare a mixture with one teaspoonful 
capers, one gherkin, and two chives, all finely 
chopped, one dessertspoonful of chilli vinegar, 
one tablespoonful of anchovy paste ; mix all well 
together. Spread a little of the mixture on top 
of each round, put a round slice of hard-boiled egg 
over the mixture, and sprinkle with a little 
chopped parsley. Serve hot with toasted bread, 
or cold, with picked and v/ashed small cress. 

ZUDREE RICE. 

Boil half a pound of rice in a quart of veal or 
chicken broth until nearly tender, then strain it. 
Colour the rice with saffron, which is done by 
boiling a scruple of saffron in a teacupful of broth, 
which is afterwards added to the rice. Set the 
stew-pan containing the rice near the fire, and 
let it stew gently until the broth is entirely ab- 
sorbed by the rice. Season with peper, salt, and 
a pinch of curry powder. 

MUTHA ZUDREE. 

Prepare the rice as in the previous recipe, only 
add water instead of broth ; colour it with saffron, 
and when done, add two ounces of powdered 



MADRAS FRAl'VJV CURRY. iSj 

sugar. Dissolve a quarter of a pound of butter 
over the fire in a stew-pan, add the rice, and allow 
it to stew gently on the fire until the rice has 
absorbed the liquor. Dish up, dust with a little 
curry powder, and serve. 

SHEEP'S BREADS CROUTES A L'INDIENNE. 

Stamp out some oval shapes of well-toasted and 
buttered slices of bread, sprinkle with grated 
cheese. Cut some slices of cooked sheep's or lamb's 
breads, and place on each toast. Season with 
French mustard, a dust of curry powder, and a 
pinch of cayenne, or Nepaul pepper. Sprinkle 
some grated cheese and fried bread crumbs over 
the top, place in a hot oven for about ten minutes, 
sprinkle with some chopped truffles, dish up, 
garnish with fried parsley ; place here and there 
a little lobster coral on the top of the fried 
parsley, and serve. 



MADRAS PRAWN CURRY. 

Kari cV Ecrevisses a la Madras. 

Take a pint of picked prawns, melt two ounces 
of butter in a stew-pan, mince an onion finely, 
and brown it in the butter ; then put in the 
fish, season them with salt and pepper, and suffi- 
cient curry powder to flavour. Put a handful of 
cleaned spinach in a stew-pan, let it stew down 
without the addition of water. When tender, 
pass it through a sieve into the stew-pan con- 
taining the prawns. Let all simmer for a few 
minutes, so as to amalgamate properly ; then dish 
up, garnish with fried bread sippets, and serve. 



iS4 ORIENTAL DISHES. 



HOSSYNU KUBAB. 

Fasten upon small silver skewers alternately 
slices of apples and meat (beef or mutton), cut 
into small round pieces ; between eacli apple 
and meat skewer slices of onions. Sprinkle the 
kubabs with finely chopped shallots, cayenne 
pepper, and tumeric (ground), and fry them in 
a stew-pan with a quarter of a pound of butter. 
Plain boiled rice should be served with this dish. 



HOFTAHS OF CHICKEN. 

Hoftahs de VolaiUe. 

Rem.ove the meat of a boiled fowl, pound in a 
mortar with two small onions, previously boiled 
and minced, season with finely powdered mar- 
joram, cayenne pepper, and salt. Shape some 
small balls. Egg and bread crumb them, and 
fry in hot fat or clarified butter. Dish up on a 
folded napkin, garnish with fried parsley, and 
serve. 

VEGETABLE CURRY. 

Karl de Legumes. 

Cut some washed celery sticks into small pieces 
about an inch long, put two ounces of butter into 
a stew-pan. Roll the celery, some small onions 
and broccoli in curry powder. Place all in the 
stew-pan, add a cupful of good grav}^, and stew 
gently until tender. Have ready a small quan- 
tity of hot mashed potatoes, seasoned with curry 
powder and a little salt. Dish up in the shape of 
a border, dress the stew in the centre, and serve. 



CURRIED ARTICHOKE BOTTOMS. 185 

FISH CURRY IN MILK. 

Karl de Poisson au Lait. 

Cut three onions and two shallots into slices, 
fiy lightly in butter, then take any kind of fish, 
cat into small pieces, sprinkle with flour, and fry 
them brown. Take the pieces out of the frying- 
pan, dredge them with curry powder ; place 
them in a stew-pan, and add a tablespoonful of 
flour, stir in four spoonfuls of cream ; season with 
salt and mixed spice ; and let it stew for half an 
hour, then add half a pint of boiling milk, two 
tablespoonfuls of lemon pickle, and serve. 

WHITE CABBAGE CURRY. 

Kari au Choiix blanc. 

Shred the white parts of a hard cabbage, 
together with a large sour apple ; slice two small 
onions, and fry them in butter. Place the cab- 
bage, apple and onions in a stew-pan ; season with 
cayenne, black pepper, salt, curry powder, and 
tumeric. Let all simmer gently, moisten w^ith 
the juice of half a lemon and a little strong 
gravy ; cover it closely, keep stirring occasionally 
until tender. 

CURRIED ARTICHOKE BOTTOMS. 

Fonds cVArtkhauts a Vltidlenne. 

Cut an Indian mango into shreds, peel and chop 
finely two large onions ; put both into a stew-pan 
with a piece of butter. Place eight or more 
artichoke bottoms, neatly trimmed, on the top 
of the ingredients, and set all to broil gently over 
the fire for half an hour. Have ready some boiled 
rice, shape a border on a dish ; dish up the arti- 
chokes in a pyramid in the centre. Sprinkle with 



186 ORIENTAL DISHES. 

salt and curry powder. Stir tlie sauce well, pour 
over the dish, and serve. 

BENGAL POTATO CURIIY. 

Kari de Pommes de Terre. 

Cut up four small onions (peeled), pound them 
in a mortar, together with an ounce of coriander- 
seed, free from husks, a pinch of cayenne pepper, 
two ounces of finely grated cocoanut, and a little 
salt. Dissolve a piece of butter in a stew-pan over 
the fire, put in about half an ounce of tumeric ; 
let it fry for a few minutes, then add half a pint 
of curds, and the pounded ingredients. Let it boil 
up, and put in some slices of boiled potatoes ; 
moisten with a little gravy to prevent it from 
burning. Let it simmer for a few minutes ; dish 
up, and serve as hot as possible. 

KABOBS A L'INDIENNE. 

Cut into thin slices two large onions, also two 
large peeled and cored apples, eight pieces of 
streaky bacon of the thickness of a jDcnny, and 
eight pieces of the lean part of a neck of 
mutton or lean veal, cut the same size. The 
pieces should be round, and of about two inches 
in diameter. Then lay them fiat, and sprinkle 
with curry powder, a little ground ginger and 
salt. Fasten on a skewer each piece of meat, etc., 
putting them alternately so that the}^ may amal- 
gamate — thus: meat, onion, bacon, apple — until 
all are on. Wrap them in buttered paper, and 
either bake them in the oven or roast in front of 
the fire. They will take quite half an hour or 
more to cook. Boil some rice, and dish them u]) 
between two borders, takino- out the skewers. 



RABBIT PIE A LA BOMBAY. 187 

Pour a little curry sauce over them, and serve 
as hot as possible. 

CURRIED VENISON A LA BARODA. 

Slice one or two sour cooking apples, without 
peeling them, fry in one ounce of butter with 
half a Spanish onion ; cut into rings, and one red 
carrot scraped and cut into round slices. When 
slightly browned, drain and put in a stew-pan, 
with a small bouquet of savoury herbs ; moisten 
with half a pint of mutton broth, and stew the 
vegetables until tender. Rub all through a fine 
wire sieve. Mix half a tablespoonful of carry 
powder with half an ounce of butter, put it into a 
stew-pan with a dessertspoonful of lime or lemon 
juice; now add the vegetable puree, a teaspoonful 
of red currant jelly, and a little more mutton 
broth, if necessary, to form the consistency of a 
nice sauce. Stir the sauce over the fire, have 
ready some slices of cooked venison, lay them into 
the sauce ; stew gently for about twenty minutes. 
Season with pepper and salt to taste. Dish up, 
garnish round the dish with rings of lemon, 
croutons of fried bread, and fried apple rings. 

RABBIT PIE A LA BOMBAY. 

Procure a rabbit, skin it, cut it up into neat 
joints, wipe them with a damp cloth, and par- 
boil in a pint of water. Drain the pieces, and 
place them in a pie-dish alternately with a layer 
of sliced tomatoes, sliced hard-boiled eggs, and 
half a sliced Spanish onion. Season between each 
layer, with a little salt, cayenne pepper, a very 
small piece of finely chopped garlic, and two 
finely chopped green chillies ; add also two cloves. 



i8S ORIENTAL DISHES. 

Moisten with half a pint of stock or gravy. 
Cover with short crust or puff paste, ornament 
the top, brush over with beaten ^^^^ and bake in 
moderately heated oven for about an hour and 
half. 

CHICKEN CUTLETS A LA BARODA. 

Draw and truss a nice fat chicken. Boil it in 
stock or water for half an hour, remove the skin, 
cut it up into pieces, free them from bones and 
gristle. Chop the meat finely, and put it in a 
stew-pan, mix it with a small handful of fine 
bread crumbs, a finely chopped small onion, a 
dessertspoonful of chopped parsley, the rind of 
half a lemon finely chopped or grated, and a 
chopped green chilli. Season with salt, Nepaul 
pepper, and grated nutmeg, add a well-beaten 
egg, and a little chopped tarragon and chervil. 
Moisten with two tablespoonfuls of white sauce, 
stir over the fire until thoroughly hot, and spread 
out on a dish to cool. Form some even-sized cut- 
let shapes, ^^^ and bread crumb them, and fry in 
boiling butter to a light brown colour. Drain on 
a cloth ; place a small chicken bone in the smaller 
end of each cutlet; dish up in a circular form. 
Put a little fried parsley in the centre, and serve 
with a nice tomato sauce, slightly flavoured with 
finely chopped mango chutney. 

KABOBED EELS. 

Wash and skin one large eel, cut it into pieces 
about two inches long. Slice a small Spanish 
onion, place a piece of eel alternately with a 
slice of onion, a small piece of green ginger, and 
a piece of red chilli on skewers, and proceed thus 
until the skewers are full. Mince two shallots 



CURRIED EGGS A LA MADRAS. 189 

very finely, fry a little in two ounces of butter ; 
add three cloves, one bay leaf, and a few carda- 
mom seeds. Dust the fish, etc., on the skewers 
with mixed spice and a little curry powder, and 
place in the stew-pan. with the shallots, butter, etc. 
Allow it to fry gently until tender. Dish up in 
a pyramidal form, and serve with curry sauce and 
boiled rice. 

EGG PIROSKIS. 

Put into a large basin six ounces of grated 
cheese, half a gill of cream, six ounces of fried 
bread crumbs, two ounces of cleaned currants, a 
teaspoonful of castor sugar, about four ounces of 
flour, a pinch of salt and a little grated nutmeg. 
Beat up three whole eggs, and stir into the above, 
together with two ounces of oiled butter. Work 
well, so as to obtain a smooth paste; if too thin, 
add a little more flour. Shape some even-sized 
balls, flatten each with the palm of 3'our hand ; 
fry in clarified butter, drain on a cloth, and serve 
hot. 

BUTTERED EGGS, INDIAN STYLE. 
Qlufs hrouilles a VIndienne. 

Boil three eggs until hard, peel them and cut 
crossways into slices. Beat up two raw eggs, 
season with salt and pepper. Put them in a 
buttered, deep silver dish. Lay in the slices of 
hard-boiled eggs, and a few pieces of butter. 
Dust with curry powder and caj'enne. Bake in a 
moderate oven, and serve round the table in the 
dish in which it has been cooked. 

CURRIED EGGS A LA MADRAS. 

Boil six eggs until hard, peel them, and place 
in cold water until required. Mince half a small 



I90 ORIENTAL DISHES. 

onion, fry with a little fresh butter. Add one 
dessertspoonful of curry powder, a finely minced 
sour apple, three to four Brazil nuts, or six sweet 
almonds. Mix an ounce of arrowroot or corn- 
flour with a pint of milk. Stir into the above. 
Let it simmer for fifteen minutes. Stir from 
time to time. If too thick, add a little white 
stock. Cut the eggs in halves, and lay them in 
the sauce to get thoroughly hot through. Dish 
up the eggs carefully in a deep dish, strain the 
sauce over them, garnish with small bread crou- 
tons, freshly picked parsley, and rings of lemons. 

OYSTER FRIT'TEIIS, INDIAN STYLE. 

Beignets cVHiutres a VLuUenne. 

"Warm up two dozen large oysters in their own 
juice, but do not let them boil ; drain them, sprinkle 
over with a little curry powder and a pinch of 
Nepaul pepper. Have ready some chicken force- 
meat, spread over carefully each side of the 
oysters, then dip in some frying batter, and fry 
in clarified butter for five minutes. Dish up in 
pile, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. 

WEST INDIAN MULLIGATAWNY. 

Cut half a chicken into small neat pieces, 
mince a small onion finely, cut two ounces of 
lean mutton into small pieces, dissolve two ounces 
of butter in a stew-pan, add the onions, then the 
chicken and mutton. Let the whole iDrown for 
five minutes, add two ounces of rice, two slices of 
egg plant, one teaspoonful of curry powder, and 
one green apple cored and cut very small. Season 
with black pepper, Nepaul pepper and salt. Moisten 
with a quart of chicken or mutton i^tock ; allow 



KIDNEY TOAST A LA MADRAS. 19 1 



ifc to simmer for twenty-five minutes. When 
ready for serving add twelve blanched and bearded 
oysters, and the juice of half a lemon. 

INDIAN CRAIPE TOAST. 

Take three well-beaten eggs, a finely cut green 
chilli, the pulp of two ripe tomatoes, an ounce of 
butter and a little cream. Season with salt and 
pepper. Put all in a stew-pan over a quick fire, 
stir until set ; spread on hob buttered toast and 
serve. 

BUTTERED PICKLETS. 

Toast them on both sides, and butter well. 
Cut in four equal pieces, and serve with salt in a 
mufhneer or muffin dish. 

SAVOURY HOMINY. 

Beat up a cupful of cooked hominy in a sauce- 
pan, add half a pint of milk, and stir over the fire 
until done ; then add an ounce of fresh butter, 
three ounces of grated cheese, a little mixed 
mustard. Season with salt and pepper, mix all 
well together, turn it into a well-butterecl shallow 
dish. Strew over some grated cheese, also here and 
there a small piece of butter. Let it brown in a 
quick oven, or under the salamander, and serve 
hot. 

KIDNEY TOAST A LA MADRAS. 

Skin three large sheep's kidneys, cut them long- 
ways into slices, and fasten upon skewers. Season 
the kidneys with pepper, salt, and a pinch of 
Nepaul or cayenne pepper ; immerse in well- 
beaten egg, and roll them in fresh bread crumbs 
into which a little grated lemon peel has been 
added. Broil in a little butter in a frying-pan 



192 ORIENTAL DISHES. 

over the fire. Have ready some crisp, well- 
buttered toast, spread over with a thin layer of 
curvy paste. Cut the toast into convenient pieces, 
carefully remove the skewers, and place the 
kidneys upon the toast. Some thin slices of 
broiled ham or bacon served with this dish is a 
great improvement. 

CURRIED CHEESE SANDWICHES. 

Free half a pound of cheese from the rind, cut 
it into small pieces, and pound in a mortar with 
three ounces of fresh butter and one dessertspoon- 
ful of curry paste. Cut some thin slices of bread, 
spread with the mixture, and form some neatly 
shaped sandwiches. Scraps and pieces of cheese 
may be worked up in this way, the mixture can 
be put into a jar, and will keep for several weeks, 
if covered with a layer of clarified butter 

INDIAN PEPPER-POT. 

Cut up into neat pieces any remains of cooked 
meat, poultry, or game ; put them into an 
earthenware pan or jar, which should be fire- 
proof, add a convenient quantity of West Indian 
pickles, previously cut into small pieces, pour over 
a sufficient quantity of casaripe sauce * to well 
cover the ingredients. Put the whole into a hot 
oven, for about half an hour, stir from time to 
time, and keep it covered. It is then ready for 
use, and can be served hot or cold. 

Meat well cooked and covered with sufficient 
sauce will keep for some time if tied over with 
a bladder or parchment paper. 

■^ " Casaripe sauce " is an Indian condiment, and can be 
procured in quart bottles at most ItaUan warehousemen. 



flDi5Ccnancou0 IRecipc^ an& Saucer, 



HOW TO BOIL RICE FOR CURRIES. 

Carolina rice is best for this purpose. AYash the 
rice well in cold water, drain it, throw it into a stew- 
pan of boiling water, allowing three pints of water 
to every quarter of a pound of rice. Let it boil 
over a quick fire for about a quarter of ^.n hour, 
then strain. Put the rice in a basin with cold 
water, strain off into a cullender or sieve, and 
place before the fire, or at the mouth of the oven, 
so that it may dry and get hot. Stir it occasion- 
ally with a fork in order to loosen it. 

FRYING BATTER. 

Sift half a pound of flour into a basin ; add a 
pinch of salt, stir in half a pint of lukewarm 
milk and half an ounce of warmed butter, and 
work it Avell with a wooden spoon. Allow it to 
stand for an hour or more, then beat the whites 
of tw^o eggs to a stiff froth, mix it gently with the 
batter, and use same as required. 

PASTE CRUST. 

Sift one pound of flour on to a paste-board, add 
a pinch of salt, and rub half a pound of butter 
lightly into the flour, until flour and butter are 



S.D. 



l'J3 



194 MISCELLANEOUS RECIPES AND SAUCES. 



perfectly amalgamated. Make a well in the centre ; 
mix gradually one gill of water and one gill of 
milk, and work into a smooth paste. E,oll it out, 
fold two or three times, and use as directed. 

l^oie. — Rub the butter in the flour with the tips 
of your fingers. If the paste appears too stiff add a 
little more milk or water. 

NOUILLE PASTE. 

Sift half a pound of flour on to a paste-board, 
make a well in the centre, and add a pinch of salt, 
two whole or three 3^olks of eggs, also half an 
ounce of butter. Mix all well together, and knead 
for ten minutes. Should the paste appear too stiff 
add a very little water or milk ; it must, however, 
be very consistent. When required, divide in 
pieces and roll out very thin. 

FEUILLETAGE OR PUFF PASTE. 

Sift a pound of flour on to the table or paste- 
board, form a well in the centre, put in half a 
teaspoonful of salt, a small piece of butter about 
the size of a walnut, the juice of half a lemon, 
and mix with sufficient cold water to form a 
smooth paste. Allow it to stand for ten minutes. 
In the meantime wash in iced water well not 
quite a pound of butter ; knead it in a wet cloth, 
and give it a square flat shape. Flour the board, 
roll out the paste, giving it a square shape a little 
larger than the butter, and rolling out the four 
sides somewhat thinner than the centre. Place 
the butter in the centre, turn in the four sides, 
so as to completely cover the butter; flatten the 
paste and butter gently with the rolling pin, and 
roll out to about one-third of an inch in thickness. 



MARINADE. 



195 



Keep in an oblong shape and fold in three ; this 
is termed a turn. Roll out again and fold as 
before, and allow it to stand on the ice for ten 
minutes. Give it three or four more turns, 
allowing it to rest for ten minutes between each 
turn ; then roll out and use as required. 

DEVILLED BUTTER. 

Beurre a la Dlable. 

Put a peeled shallot, a few sprigs of tarragon, 
chervil and parsley leaves in a small stew-pan, 
with sufficient chilli vinegar to cover; bring it to 
the boil, drain, and let it get cool. Wipe and bone 
three anchovies, pound them in a mortar with one 
dessertspoonful of curry paste, four ounces of 
butter, the yolk of a hard-boiled egg and the 
herbs and shallot. Add a dust of cayenne or 
Nepaul pepper, rub all through a fine sieve, and 
use as required, for devilled broiled meat, fish, 
biscuits, toast, etc. 

MARINADE. 

For 2^ickllng Fish or Meat. 

To each quart of vinegar (malt or French wine) 
add one sliced onion, one sliced carrot, a sprig of 
thyme, one bay leaf, a small bunch of parsley, a 
dozen peppercorns, two cloves and half a sliced 
lemon. Boil up the vinegar with the above-named 
ingredients. Place the fish or meat you wish to 
pickle in a shallow dish or basin, pour over 
sufficient marinade to well cover, and let it remain 
for twelve hours or more. White or red wine 
may be added in addition to the vinegar, and will 
be found a great improvement. 



196 MISCELLANEOUS RECIPES AND SAUCES. 



PLEURONS. 

These are little sippets of puff-paste used for 
garnishing dishes, and are made as follows : — 
Roll out a small piece of puff-paste, about an 
eighth of an inch thick; stamp out some half-moon 
or crescent shapes with a circular cutter, place 
them on a baking tin, brush over lightly with 
beaten ^^'g^ and bake in a quick oven. 

WHITE SAUCE. 

Put a pint of milk, a small onion, stuck with a 
clove, a bay leaf, and twelve peppercorns, into a 
stew-pan ; set it on the lire to boil. In the mean- 
time mix one and a half ounces of flour with two 
ounces of butter, put it in the stew-pan and stir 
over the fire for a few minutes ; then add half 
a pint of white stock or water, and stir until it 
boils. Stir in the boiling milk, etc., season with 
salt, and a little grated nutmeg, and allow it to 
simmer for fifteen minutes. Skim and pass 
through a fine strainer or tammy cloth. Should 
the sauce be desired richer, work in a small piece 
of fresh butter, or a little cream, after the sauce 
is strained. The sauce must, however, not be 
allowed to boil again after additional butter or 
cream is added. 

ALLEMANDE SAUCE. 

Dissolve one ounce of butter in a stew-pan, add 
an ounce of flour, stir a few minutes over a fire, 
without allowing it to brown, but long enough to 
cook the flour. Add rather more than a pint of 
chicken stock ; stir until it boils. Season with salt, 
pepper, and a pinch of grated nutmeg. Let it 
simmer for twenty minutes or more. Skim well. 



MAITRE D'HdTEL BUTTER. 197 

Work in two yolks of eggs, two tablespoonfuls of 
cream, and half an ounce of fresh butter. Stir 
well over the fire, until the eggs begin to set, but 
do not let it boil. Add a teaspoonful of lemon 
juice, pass through a strainer or clotli, and serve 
as required. 

BECHAMEL SAUCE. 

Dissolve one ounce of butter in a small stew- 
pan, add one ounce of flour ; stir over the fire for 
a few minutes, just long enough to cook the flour, 
without allowing it to brown. Stir in a pint of 
boiling milk ; add a small onion stuck with a clove, 
ten white peppercorns, half a bay leaf, a pinch of 
salt, and a little grated nutmeg. Stir until it 
boils, and allow to simmer for about ten minutes. 
Pass through a tammy cloth, or napkin, return to 
the stew-pan, and finish with a small piece of 
butter, and half a teaspoonful of lemon juice. 

MAITRE D'HOTEL SAUCE. 

Warm up one gill of bechamel sauce, add to it 
a teaspoonful of finely chopped parsley, a few 
chervil and tarragon leaves, and a teaspoonful of 
lemon juice ; work up with half an ounce of fresh 
butter, and serve. 

MAITRE D'HOTEL BUTTER. 

Knead an ounce or more of fresh butter, with 
dessertspoonful of finely chopped, washed and 
pressed parsley, tarragon and chervil leaves (only 
a sprig or two of the latter two), a teaspoonful of 
lemon juice, a pinch of salt, pepper and cayenne. 
Spread it on a plate, place on the ice to set, stamp 
out small, and use it with different preparations. 



MISCELLANEOUS REC2PES AND SAUCES. 



ANCHOVY BUTTER. 

Soak, wipe and bone three Gorgona anchovies, 
pound them in a mortar with an ounce and a half 
of fresh butter, and a little lemon juice; pass 
through a sieve. Form some very small pats, place 
on broiled meats, or fish, and serve before the 
butter dissolves. 

SUPREME SAUCE. 

Put an ounce of butter in a stew-pan ; when 
melted, stir in an ounce of flour ; allow it to fry a 
little. Add gradually three parts of a quart of 
chicken-stock, stir until it boils, and allow to 
simmer for fifteen minutes. Take off the scum, 
add one gill of boiling cream, a teaspoonful of 
lemon juice, a pinch of salt, and a pinch of grated 
nutmeg. Pass through a tammy cloth or napkin, 
return to a clean stew-pan, and finish with half 
an_ ounce of fresh butter, and a small piece of 
chicken glaze. 

ESPAGNOLE OR BROWN SAUCE. 

Cut up into small pieces a small carrot, an 
onion, two ounces of beef or veal, and two ounces 
of raw or cooked ham or lean bacon. Put this in 
a stew-pan, with a few sprigs of parsley, or some 
parsley root, a few small pieces of celery stalk, a 
bay leaf, twenty peppercorns, two blades of mace, 
a few sprigs of savoury herbs, and an ounce of 
butter. Allow it to boil over a quick fire until 
light brown. Strain off the fat, add two quarts 
of stock, half a pint of tomato conserve, and a gill 
of red wine ; a) low to simmer for an hour. In 
the meantime dissolve in a stew-pan two ounces 
of butter or good dripping, add two ounces of 



TOMATO SAUCE. I99 

flour, and stir over a slow fire until brown, or put 
it in the oven, in which case it will take longer 
to brown, but is less likely to burn. Strain the 
prepared stock, skim well, and add gradually to the 
prepared flour. Stir until it boils, and let simmer 
for twenty minutes or more. If found too thick, 
add a little more stock. Season to taste, skim 
and strain. 

DEMI-GLACE SAUCE. 

Take a pint of gravy from roast veal, put it in 
a stew-pan, and add half a gill of Espagnole sauce, 
and a small glass of Madeira or sherry wine. Let 
it reduce to the desired consistency, skim, strain 
and serve as required. If you have no veal gravy 
use other gravy or rich stock. In the latter case 
add a teaspoonful of meat glaze or extract of meat 
and season to taste. 

POIVRADE OR PEPPER SAUCE. 

Cut into small dice and put in a stew-pan half 
a carrot, half an onion, an ounce of streaky bacon, 
together with half an ounce of butter, a sprig of 
thyme, and twenty crushed peppercorns. Fry 
for a few minutes, strain off the fat, and add half 
a pint or more of Espagnole or brown sauce ; allow 
it to boil for fifteen minutes, skim, strain, and 
serve as required. 

TOMATO SAUCE. 

Put into a stew-pan an ounce of small pieces of 
bacon, an ounce of butter, and a finely chopped 
onion. Fry a little, and add about a pound of 
ripe tomatoes, freed from the stems and cut into 
slices. Stir over the fire a little longer, then add 



200 MISCELLANEOUS RECIPES AND SAUCES. 

an ounce of flour, previously mixed with a little 
cold stock or gravy ; stir in gradually three parts 
of a quart of stock, add a few peppercorns, a few 
sprigs of savoury herbs, and parsley. Allow to 
simmer for half an hour. Remove the herbs, rub 
through a sieve, return to the stew-pan, season 
with salt, a pinch of castor sugar and pepper ; 
finish with a pat of fresh butter. 

ITALIAN SAUCE. 

Chop finely three shallots and twelve mush- 
rooms ; put this in a stew-pan with a bay leaf, a 
sprig of th3^me, and a tablespoonful of salad oil. 
Fry over the fire for a few minutes, strain off the 
oil, and add a gill of white wine and a gill of veal 
stock. Allow it to simmer for ten minutes. When 
well reduced, add about a pint of Espagnole sauce ; 
stir until it boils again, remove the thyme and 
bay leaf; skim well whilst boiling for a few 
minutes longer. The sauce is then ready for 
serving. 

SALMI SAUCE. 

To make this sauce correctly, j^ou must have 
some trimmings of game or carcases of birds. 

Chop three shallots very fine, place in the corner 
of a napkin, and rinse well in water ; squeeze dry, 
and fry in a tablespoonful of salad oil in a stew- 
pan over the fire. Add a bay leaf, a sprig of thyme, 
and some mushroom trimmings. Add the carcase 
of birds, and fry a little over the fire ; moisten 
with a glass of port wine, cover the stew-pan, and 
let steam for five minutes. Add a gill of stock, a 
pint of Espagnole sauce, and a teaspoonful of red 
currant jelly. Set all to boil for ten minutes or 



TAR TARE SAUCE. 



more. Skim well, and pass througli a strainer or 
tammy cloth. Season to taste, and serve. 

PIQUANTE SAUCE. 

Chop separately four shallots, three pickled 
gherkins, a tablespoonful of piccalilly, and a 
dessertspoonful of French capers. Put in a stew- 
pan with a bay leaf, a sprig of thyme, and a gill 
of French wine vinegar ; cover the stew-pan and 
let reduce to half the quantity. Eemove the herbs, 
dilute with a pint of Espagnole sauce, season with 
pepper, boil up and skim. 



INDIAN CURRY SAUCE. 

Dissolve two ounces of butter in a stew-pan, add 
a small onion, finely chopped, an ounce of finely 
sliced lean mutton, and a few sprigs of parsley. 
Stir over a slow fire for five minutes, then add 
two ounces of flour and a tablespoonful of curry 
powder. Let all fry for a few minutes, so as to cook 
the flour. Stir in a quart of veal or mutton broth, 
and the juice of half a lime. Allow it to simmer 
for half an hour ; stir occasionally. Pass through 
a fine strainer or tammy cloth, return it to the 
stew-pan, boil up and bind with a yolk of ^g^^ a 
tablespoonful of cream, and half an ounce of 
butter. Stir over the fire for a few seconds 
longer, but do not allow it to boil again. 

MAYONNAISE SAUCE. 

{See pafje 175.) 

TARTxYRE SAUCE. 

Put two yolks of eggs in a basin, place it on a 
shallow pan, containing some pounded ice. Add 



202 MISCELLANEOUS RECIPES AND SAUCES. 



a teaspoonful of salt, a pinch of white pepper, 
and half a teaspoonful of mustard. Mix well 
with a wooden spoon, pour in at intervals, slowly 
and gradually, a pint of salad oil, adding from, 
time to time a few drops of tarragon vinegar. 
Chop finely two large gherkins, a teaspoonful of 
capers, and a few sprigs of parsley, and add to 
the sauce. Do not mix the gherkins, etc., until 
your sauce is finished; otherwise it is likely to 
turn. If the sauce appears too stiff, add a few 
drops of lemon juice or more vinegar. 

ANCHOVY SAUCE. 

Prepare some white sauce as directed on page 
196, add a sufficient quantit}^ of essence of ancho- 
vies to impart flavour and colour. A few drops 
of lemon juice tend to improve the flavour if 
added to the sauce just before serving. 

REMOULADE SAUCE. 

Blanch a few leaves of tarragon, parsley, 
burnet, and chives ; drain the herbs, and chop 
finely. Put in a basin the yolk of an Q^^., with 
salt and pepper to taste ; stir Avell with a wooden 
spoon. Work in gradually half a pint of salad oil, 
and at intervals a few drops of tarragon vinegar. 
About two tablespoonfuls of vinegar is required 
to half a pint of oil. When the sauce is finished, 
add a teaspoonful of made mustard, a pinch of 
castor sugar, and the chopped herbs. 



INDEX 



A DELAIDE Sandwiches 33 
-^ Alexandra Sandwiches 40 
Allemande Sauce . . . 196 
American Salad .... 170 

— Omelet 115 

Anchovy Salad Avith 

Onions 1 

Anchovies 1 

Anchois (les) 1 

Anchovy Canapees ... 2 
Anchois sur Canapes . . 2 
Anchovy CanaiDces, Prin- 
cess style 2 

— Salad 3 

— Sauce 202 

Anchois en Salade ... 3 
Anchovies and Crayfish 

Tails in Shells ... 8 
Anchois et Queues d'Ecre- 
visses en Capisantis . 

— a la Norwegienne . . 3 
Anchovy Fingers Avith 

Cheese 53 

Anchois Frits 54 

Anchovy Toast .... 54 

— Eclairs 54 

— Biscuits 55 

— Sandwiches, ]S'elson 

stvle ..'.... 33 

— Butter 198 

Appetizers, Maximilian 

style 11 

Appetissants a la Maxi- 
,milian 11 

— Espagnole ... .11 



Apple and Cucumber 
Salad 

— Salad, Perigord style . 
Artichoke Bottoms ■v\ith 

Brussel Sprouts . . 
! Artichauts Farcis . . . 

Artichokes, Lyonese style 

Artichauts a la Lyon- 
naise 

Artichoke Bottoms, Cur- 
ried 

Asparagus Points with 
Fine Herbs .... 
: Angels on Horseback . . 

Anges a Cheval (les) . . 

Aubergine Marinee . . 

Aubergines au Gratin . 

— a la Provencale . . . 

— au Fromase .... 



154 
177 



97 
97 
98 



185 

101 
62 
62 
29 
90 
90 
90 



"D ALLOTITs'E of Lobster, 

^^ Eeform style ... 6 

— de Homard a la Be- 

forme 6 

Bacon Omelet 114 

Baked Tomatoes a TAn- 

glaise 80 

— Macaroni with Cheese 144 
Beef Canapees .... 24 
Beignets de Poisson . . 44 

— de Poisson Fume . . 44 

— de Saumon 46 

— de Merluche Fumee . 49 

— aux Huitres .... 59 



2U3 



204 



INDEX. 



Bsignets de Filets de 
Harengs a I'Alle- 
mande 64 

— de Gibier 70 

— de Jambon 74 

— de Toinates .... 79 

— de Pommes de Terre . 84 

— d'Aubergines a TAii- 

glaise 89 

— de Betteraves .... 104 

— au Fromage .... 137 

— Souffles au Fromage . 187 

— d'Huitres a I'lndienne 190 
Beetroot Fritters . . . 104 
Betteraves en Eagout . . 105 
Betteraves a TOrientale . 15 
Beetroot Salad .... 158 

— and Egg Salad . . .160 
Bechamel Sauce .... 197 
Bengal Potato Carry . . 186 
Bhaurta a Tlndienne . . 180 
Biscuits au Beurre d'An- 

chois 55 

Bouchees de Jambon a la 

Creme 23 

Boeuf Hache a I'Aspic . . 23 

— Fume a la Harabour- 

geoise 24 

Bologna Salad .... 168 
Bonnes Bouches a la Car- 
dinal 25 

— de Foie Gras .... 25 

— aux Huitres .... 56 

— a la Moelle 68 

— de Volaille et Jam- 

bon 68 

— de Pommes de Terre . 86 

— aux (Eufs et Jambon . 121 
Brissolettes de Caviar a 

la Moscovite ... 20 
Broiled Sardines -svith 

Ham 52 

— Oysters 56 

— Oysters, New York 

stj^le 57 

— Potatoes, a la Maire . 84 
Braized Celer3^,Espagno]e 102 



Breakfast or Lunch Salad 158 
Brown Bread Cheese Sand- 
wiches 143 

— Sauce 198 

Buttered Eggs, Indian 

style 189 

— Picklets 391 

Baked Eggs,Gratin style 130 

Buttered Eggs .... 132 

pANAPES aux Anchois 

^ a la Princesse ... 2 
Canapees, Turbigo fashion 4 
Canapes a la Turbigo ... 4 
Canapees of Lobster, 

Queen's style ... 4 
Canapes de Homard a la 

Beine 4 

Canapees of Smoked Sal- 
mon 13 

Canapes de Saumon Fume 13 
Canapees of Caviare, E,e- 

moulade stj^le ... 20 
Canapes de Caviar a la 

Bemoulade .... 20 

— de Boe.uf 24 

Canapees of Crab (curried) 48 
Canapes de Crab a I'ln- 
dienne 48 

— de Sardine 51 

Caviare 17 

— Slices, Bemoulade style 19 

— Dainties, Moscow style 20 

— Sandwiches .... 20 

— Darioles 21 

— Sandwiches .... 34 

— Omelet 112 

Cabbage au Gratin. . . 93 

— Lettuce, American style 93 
CauliHoAver au Gratin . 95 

— with Cheese .... 95 
Carottes au Fines Herbes 100 
Carrots with Sauce . . 101 
Carrottes Nouvelles a 

I'Allemande. ... 101 
Cardoons a I'Espagnole . 105 

— Maitre d'Hotel stvle . 106 



INDEX. 



205 



PAGK 

Gardens frits 106 

Celeri Craise a I'Espag- 

nole 102 

— frit a la Dresde . . . 102 

— a la Maitre d'Hotel . 108 

Celery Salad 155 

Champignons en Caisses 

a la Diable .... 87 

— sur Croutons .... 88 
Crayfish Canapees ... 8 

— Croutes, Tartare style 8 
Crabs, Dressed .... 24 
Crabes Garnies .... 24 

— aux (Eufs a la Diable . 48 
Crepes de Pommes de Terre 

au Fromage .... 83 
Croutes d'Ecrevisses a la 

Eavigotte .... 7 

— d'Ecrevisses a la Car- 

dinal 8 

— de Crevettes a la Diable 47 

— aux Truifes .... 107 

— of Chicken, Devilled . 76 

— de Volaille a la Diable 76 
Croutons de Champig- 
nons 88 

Crepinettes aux Huitres . 60 
Croustade de Sardines au 

Fromage 53 

Croutons d'Anchois au 

Fromage 53 

— d'Anchois a I'Anglaise 54 

— d'Anchois a I'Indienne 55 

— d'Anchois aux Fines 

Herbes 55 

— de Jambon 75 

— de Jambon 75 

Croquettes d'Huitres a la 

Wellington .... 60 

— de Viande 65 

— de Volaille 65 

— de Chevreuil .... 67 

— de Pommes de Terre . 82 
Croustades of Kidney, 

Beform style ... 72 

— de Eognons a la Re- 

forme 72 



Croustades de Concombres 

a la Cordon rouge . 92 

Cucumbers a la Maitre 

d'Hotel 91 

— Croustade Cordon 

rouge 92 

Cucumber and Tomato 

Salad 161 

-- Salad 161 

Cuisse de Dinde a la Dia ble 77 
Curried Anchovy Croutons 55 

— Potatoes 86 

— Potatoes and Apples . 181 

— Apples 181 

— Prawns 47 

— Artichoke Bottoms . . 185 

Curry Sauce 201 

Champignons aux Fines 

Herbes 88 

— a la Parisienne ... 89 
Cheese Sandwiches ... 34 

— Omelet 117 

— Meringues 134 

— Souffle, No. 1 . . . . 134 

— Souffle, No. 2 . . . .135 

— Souffle, No. 3 . . . . 135 

— Balls 135 

— Straws 136 

— Turnover 136 

— Scallops 136 

— Cakes 137 

— Fritters 137 

— Fritters (another w^ay) 137 

— Hominy Souffles . . . 138 

— and Ham Toast . . .142 
Chicken Croquettes . . 65 

— Croustades 67 

— and Ham Tit-Bits . . 68 

— Sandwiches .... 32 
Cheshire Meat Sandwiches 42 
Chicken Cutlets a la Ba- 

roda 188 

Clioux au Gratin ... 93 

— Farcis a TEspagnole . 93 

— Fleurs au Gratin . . 95 

— Fleurs au Parmesan . 95 
Citrouille au Parmesan . 109 



2d6 



JNDEX. 



PAGE 

Coquilles de Homard . . 46 

— d'Huitres a la Dumas . 59 
Cockle Patties, American 

style 62 

Coquilles de Pommes de 

Terre 82 

Coucombres a la Maitre 

d'Hotel ..... 91 

— Farcis a la Demi-glace 91 
Coquilles de Salsifits . . 104 

— de Fromage .... 186 
Cold Meat Salad, French 

style 163 

Cockle Omelet .... 115 

Cotelettes aux ffiufs . . 120 

Crayfish. ...... 7 

— Croutes, Kavigotte style 7 
Cotelettes Mignons a la 

Tomate 26 

Curried Venison a la Ba- 

roda 187 

— Eggs a la Madras . . 189 

— Cheese Sandwiches . . 192 
Croutes de Lax a la Diable 46 
Croutons aux CEufs a 

I'Ecarlate 128 

Curried Eggs .... 130 

Chrysanthemum Salad . 176 

rjAEIOLES de Homard 

-*-^ — a la Tomate ... 5 

— de Caviar 21 

— d'Huitres a la Carlton 22 

— de Foie Gras .... 25 

— de Tomates a la Creme 26 
Demi-glace Sauce . . . 199 
Devilled Shrimps in Crusts 47 

— Salmon (smoked) . . 47 

— Crabs 48 

— Sardines 52 

— Oysters, Stewed ... 54 

— Oysters, Grilled ... 54 

— Meats 72 

— Chicken Liver ... 73 

— Beef Tongue .... 73 

— Turkey 77 

— Mushrooms in Oases . 87 



PAGE 

Devilled Olives . . . 109 

— Butter 195 

Dutch Beetroot Salad . . 160 

— Herrings 28 

Devilled Lax in Crusts . 46 

— Eggs 128 

rCREVISSES .... 7 
^ Ecrevisses a I'Orientale 47 
Eclairs d'Anchois ... 54 
Egg Plant, or Vegetable 

Marrow Gratin . . 90 
Eggs, Carnot style ... 27 
Egg Sandwiches .... 35 

— Salad 161 

Eggs a la Granville . . 118 

— a la Salamandre . . . 119 

— Stuifed with Spinach . 119 

— a la Matelotte . . 

— Cutlets ... . . 

— with Crown Butter 

— with Mushrooms 
Egg and Ham Tit-Bits 
Eggs, German style 

— Gratin style . . . 

— Buckingham stj'le . 

— Gruyere Fashion 

— a la Mode de Caen . 

— Coquette style . . 

— a la Maximilian . . 



Endive Salads . . . 
English Salad . . . 
Epinards a la Francaise 
Escargots aux Fines 

Herbes 

Espagnole Sauce . . 

Egg and Tongue Croutons 128 

— alaE-omaine. . . . 128 



120 
120 
120 
121 
121 
124 
124 
125 
125 
126 
126 
12 
189 
153 
161 
106 

9 

198 



-pAVOUEITE Salad . . 154 
-^ Feves de Marais aux 

Fines Herbes ... 94 
Feuilletage Paste . . . 194 

Fish Fritters 44 

Fillets of Bloaters on Toast 50 



INDEX. 



207 



PAGB 

Filets de Harengs Fumes 

sur Croutes . . . •. 50 
Fillet of Bloaters with 

Cheese ....... 63 

Filets de Harengs Fumes 

au Fromage .... 63 
Fish Curry in Milk . . 185 
Flemish Salad .... 166 

Fleurons 196 

Foie de Volaille a la 

Diable 73 

— Gras Sandwiches . . 35 
Fonds d'Artichauts a la 

Bordelaise .... 96 

— d'Artichauts a la 

Bruxelloise .... 97 

— d'Artichauts a I'ln- 

dienne 185 

French Beans with Fine 

Herbs 98 

— Spring Salad .... 150 

— Salads . • 152 

— Lettuce Salad . . . 152 

— Potato Salad .... 164 
Fresh Cod-Eoe Sandwiches 36 
Fritters of Haddock . . 49 
Fritures de Fromage . . 135 
Fried Anchovies ... 54 

— Oysters 57 

— Frogs, French style . 61 

— Celery-, Dresden style . 102 

— Cardoons 106 

— Egg Sandwiches . . . 126 
Frying Batter . . . .193 
Fried Eggs a la Suisse .- 129 

— Eggs a laBonneFemme 130 

— Eggs, Lyonese style . 132 

— Eggs, Robert style . . 133 

AAME Fritters . ... 70 

^ — Sandwiches ... 32 

— Salad 170 

— Souffles 70 

Garfield Bonnes Bouches 14 

German Salad .... 156 

— Cucumber Salad . . . 162 

— Potato Salad , . -. , 164 



PAGE 

German Lobster Salad . 171 
Gherkin and Egg Sand- 
wiches 42 

Goose-Liver Bonnes 

Bouches 25 

— Liver Darioles ... 25 
Gladstone Sandwiches . 40 
Grilled Sardines in Paper 

Cases 51 

— Oysters 57 

— Kidneys, Indian style 71 
Gruyere Cheese Sand- 
wiches 37 

Grouse Sandwiches . . 39 

Grisini au Gros Sel . . 141 
Grenouilles Frites a la 

Franc-aise .... 61 

TTADDOCK and An- 

■^ chovy Sandwiches . 33 

Ham-Bouchees with 

Cream 23 

— Canapees 23 

— Fritters 74 

— Toast 75 

— Sandwiches .... 31 

— Salad 166 

— Omelet 114 

Hamburg Sandwiches . 33 

Harengs de Hollande . . 28 

— Fumes a I'Ecossaise . 63 

— Fumes a la Bruxelloise 63 
Haricots Beans, Maitre 

d'Hotel 94 

— Blancs a la Maitre 

d'Hotel 94 

— Verts aux Fines Herbes 98 

— Verts a la Poulette . 99 

— Verts Sautes au Beurre 99 
Herring Fritters, Alle- 

mande 64 

Homard sur Canapes . . 5 

— a la Careme .... 5 

— au Gratin 45 

Hossynn Kubab .... 184 

Hoftahs of Chicken . . 184 

— de Volaille .... 184 



208 



INDEX. 



PAGK 

How Caviare is Prepared 18 

Huitres (les) 22 

— en Mayonnaisy ... 23 

— au Beurre 56 

— sur Pain Grille ... 56 

— Frites ...... 57 

— a I'Americaine ... 57 

— aux Fines Herbes . . 57 

— Sautees a FAmericaine 57 

— Grillees a la Diable . 58 
Hors d'CEuvres .... 1 

1 NDIAN Salad .... 170 
^ — Curry-Sauce . . . 201 

— Kedgeree 180 

— Bhaurta 180 

— Craipe Toast . . . .191 

— Pepper-Pot .... 192 
Italian Salad . . . 167-168 

— Sauce 200 

TAMBON sur Canapes . 23 
*^ Jerusalem Artichokes 

with Onions. ... 96 

— Artichokes, Italian 

style 96 

T/ABOBS a I'lndieiine . 186 

^ Kabobed Eels ... 188 

Kari d'Ecrevisses . . . 183 

— de Legumes .... 181 

— de Choux Blancs . . 185 

— de Poisson au Lait . . 185 

— de Pommes de Terre . 186 
Kedgere de Poisson . . 44 
Kedgere de Poisson a 

rindienne .... 180 

Kidney Toast a la Madras 191 
Kippered Herring, Scotch 

style 63 



T ANGUE de Boeuf sur 
-*^ Canapees . . . . 
Langue de Bcjeuf a la 

Diable 

Laitence de Cabillaud 

Fume sur Canaj^es . 



23 



1>ibE 

Laitence de Cabillaud 

Fume sur Croutons . 6 1 
Laitues Farcies a I'Ameri- 
caine 93 

Lemon and Apple Salad . 177 
Lentilles Fricassees . . 94 

Lentil Omelet 114 

Lettuce Salad (Plain) . . 151 

— Salad (French) . . . 152 
Little Oyster Souffles . . 59 
Lobster Canapees ... 5 

— a la Careme .... 5 

— Darioles with Tomatoes 5 

— au Gratin 45 

— Salad 171 

— Omelet 115 

Lucullus Sandwiches . . 40 

IFACAEOXI. 143 

^^ — and Poached Eggs 143 

— aux (Eufs Poches ^ . 143 

— au Fromage .... 144 

— au Gratin, Bourgeoise 

style 144 

— a I'ltalienne .... 144 
Madras Hard Eggs . . .181 

— Praw^n Curry .... 183 
Maitre d'Hotel Sauce . . 197 

— d'Hotel Butter . . .197 

Marinade 195 

Marrow Tit-Bits ... 68 
Mayonnaise Dressing . . 172 

— Sauce 175 

Meat Croquets .... 65 
MetsdeViandealaDiable 72 

Melon Salad 178 

Meringues au Fromage . 134 
Minced Beef with Savoury 

Jelly 23 

Milan SandAviches . . .43 
Miscellaneous Hecipes 

and Sauces .... 193 
My own Salad Dressing . 174 
Moellede BcBuf aux Fines 

Herbes 69 

— aux Fines Herbes sur 

Croutes 76 



INDEX. 



209 



PAGE 

Mushrooms on Toast . . 88 

Mushroom Croutons . . 88 
Mushrooms, Parisian 

style 89 

— Omelet 113 

Mussel Omelet .... 118 

Mutha Zudree .... 182 

]^EW YOEK Sand- 

■^^ wiches 57 

Norfolk Eggs 118 

Nouille Paste 194 

— a la Suisse 139 

AEUFS Farcis ii la Eusse 27 
^ — a la Carnot (les) . . 27 

— Marines 28 

— Frits a la Norfolk . . 118 
— ■ Farcis aux Epinards . 119 

— au Beurre Noir . . . 120 

— au Champignons . . 121 

— ^ TAllemande . . . 122 

— Poches a la Burgogne. 123 

— Poches a la Portugaise 123 

— Poches aux Jambon . 124 

— Poches a FAnchois . . 121 

— Poches aux Epinards . 124 

— au Gratin 124 

— a la Buckingham . . 125 

— a la Gruyere .... 125 

— a la Coquette . . . • 126 

— Farcis aux Nouilles . 127 

— Farcis a la Creme . . 127 

— a la Diable 128 

— Farcis au Percil . . .129 

— a la Suisse 129 

— au Kari 130 

— gratines 130 

— a FEcossaise .... 131 

— Brouilles 131 

— Brouilles au Beurre . 132 

— Frits a la Lyonnaise . 132 

— a la Maitre d'Hotel . 132 

— Frits a la Eobert ■ . 133 

— Durs a la Madras . . 181 

— Brouilles a I'Indienne. 189 
Olives as Hors d'CEuvres . 10 

S.D. 



Olives a I'Espagnole 

— a la Diable. 
Olive Omelet . 
Omelette au 

Herbes 

— aux Fines Herbes 

Parisienne . 

— au Chevreuil . 

— au Caviar . . 

— aux Truffes . 

— aux Monies 

— aux Huitres . 

— aux Sciucissons 

— au Jambon . . 

— au Lard . . . 

— aux Lentilles . 

— de Itomard. . 

— aux Bueardes . 

— aux Ecrevisses 

— a I'Americaine 

— aux Olives . . 



Fines 



a la 



PAGE 

11 
109 
116 

111 

111 
111 
112 
112 
113 
113 
113 
114 
114 
114 
115 
115 
115 
115 
116 



! —with Mixed Vegetables 116 

— a la Jardiniere . . . 116 

— aux Tomates . . . .116 
I — au Fromage . . . .117 
{ — aux Pommes de Terre. 117 

i Orange Salad 178 

i Oriental Dishes .... 180 

— Savoury of Beetroot . 182 
Oseilles au (Eufs Poches . 107 

Oysters 22 

Oj^ster Darioles, Carlton 

style 22 

— Mayonnaise .... 23 

— Bonnes-Bouches ... 56 
Oysters on Toast ... 56 
Oyster Fritters .... 59 

— Indian style . . . .190 
Oysters in their Shells, 

Dumas style ... 59 
Oyster Croquets, Wel- 
lington stj^le ... 60 

— Crepinettes 60 

— Patties, Cordon rouge . 61 

— Sandwiches .... 42 

— Omelet 113 

" Own " Salad Dressing . 174 

P 



210 



INDEX. 



PAGE 

pAILLESau Parmesan. 136 

Pain Grille auFromage 142 

Paste Crust 193 

Pate d'Ecrevisses sur Ca- 
napes 8 

Parisian Salad Dressing . 176 

Pear and Plum Salad . . 178 

Pepper Sauce 199 

Petits Paniers a la jardi- 
niere 22 

— Croutes de Caviar . . 21 

— Souffles d'Huitres (les) 59 

— Pates d'Huitres a la 

Cordon rouge ... 61 

— Bouchees de Bucardes 

a I'Americaine . . . 62 

— Pates de Viand e aux 

Fines Herbes ... 66 

— Croustades de Volaille 67 

— Pates de Gibier a la 

Cordon rouge ... 69 

— Souffles de Gibier . . 70 

— Pates de Riz de Veau 

a I'Allemande ... 71 

— Bouchees de Jambon . 74 

— Souffles de Pommes de 

Terre a la Cordon 

rouge 85 

— Pois au Jambon ... 99 

— Pois aux Laitues a la 

F]-an9aise .... 100 

— Pois au Sucre a la 

Francaise 100 

— Gateaux au Fromage . 137 

Pickled Eggs 28 

Piquante Sauce .... 201 
Poet's Recipe for Winter 

Salad 151 

Pommes de Terre Farcies 81 

— a la Bonne Femme . . 82 

— Farcies aux Fines 

Herbes 81 

— au Kari 84 

— a la Maire 84 

— a I'Allemande . . . 8(5 

— et Pommes au Kari . 173 

— Fromage a I'ltalienne. 87 



PAGE 

Pommes au Kari . . . 173 

— en SaladealaFraneaise 164 
Poached Eggs, Burgundy 

style 122 

— Portuguese style . . 123 

— with Ham 124 

— and Anchovy .... 124 

— with Spinach . . . 124 

Polish Salad 165 

Poissons Marines ... 13 
Pointes d'Asperges aux 

Fines Herbes . . . 101 

Poivrade Sauce .... 191 

Potato Croquets .... 82 

Potatoes Bonne-Femme . 82 

Potato Scallops .... 82 

— Pancakes with Cheese 83 

— Fritters 84 

— Souffles, Cordon rouge 85 

— Kissoles 86 

— Bonne-Bouches ... 86 

— Savourv, Italian stvle 87 

— Salad .. . . . \ . 163 

— Omelet 117 

Princess SandAviches . . 38 
Prince George Sand- 
wiches 43 

Prawn Omelet .... 115 
Pumpkin with Parmesan 

Cheese 109 

Puff Paste 194 

Pyramid of Eggs, Reform 

style 122 

Pyramide d'ffiufs a la 

Reforme 122 



[JABBITPieiilaBombay 187 
Kagout de Crabe a la 
Tomate 49 

— d'Huitres a la Diable . 38 
Pemoulade -Sauce , . . 202 
Rice, How to Boil for 

Curry . . . . . .193 

Rissoles de Chevreuil. . 67 

— de Pommes de Terre . 86 

— de Fromages .... 136 







INDEX, 


211 




PAGE 




PAGE 


Eognons de Mouton a 




Salade de Gibier. . . . 


170 


I'Indienne . . . . 


71 


— a I'Americaine . . , 


170 


Eojal Salad Sauce . . . 


173 


— a rindienne .... 


170 


Russian Salad . . . . 


167 


— de Homard .... 


171 






— du Gourmet .... 


172 


Q ALADS and Sauces . . 
^ Salade d'Anchois aiix 


146 


— a la Carranova . . . 


172 




— Dressing a la Eeforme 


174 


Oignons 


1 
48 


— Mixture 

— aux Tomates et Poires 


175 


— Sandwiches . . . . 


177 


— duPretre 


150 


— aux Citron et Pommes 177 


— de Chicoree . . . . 


151 


— de Pommes a la Peri- 




— de Laitues 


151 


gord 


177 


— a la Fran(,-aise . . . 


152 


— de Poires et Pruneaux 


178 


— a la Eomaine . . . . 


152 


— de Poulet a la Beine . 


149 


— a I'Anglaise . . . . 


153 


— de Melons 


178 


— de Pommes et de Con- 




— d'Oranges 


178 


combres 


154 


Salmon au Gratin . . . 


45 


— a la Suisse 


155 


— Fritters 


46 


— de Celeri 


155 


— Sandwiches .... 


41 


— a I'Allemande. . . . 


156 


Salmi Sauce 


200 


_ d'Ete 


158 


Salsifits aux Fines Herbts 
Salsify Fritters .... 


103 


— de Betteravcs. . . . 


158 


104 


— du Dejeuner . . . . 


158 


Salsifits Frits 


104 


— d'Hiver 


157 


Salmon Trout Mayon- 
naisse a la Baloiso . 




— aux (Eufs et Bettor- 




169 


aves 


152 


Sandwiches 

— de Jambon .... 


30 


— de Betteraves a la Hol- 




31 


landaise 


152 


— aux Tomates .... 

— de Volaille . . • . , 


32 


— aux (Eufs 


161 


32 


— de Concombres et de 




— de Gibier 


32 


Tomates 


161 


— d'Anchois a la Nelson . 


33 


— de Concombres . . . 


161 


— a la Korwegienne . . 


33 


— de Concombres a I'Alle- 




— a la Pate de Crevettes 


34 


mande 


162 


— au Caviar Russe . . . 


34 


— de Poulet a la Suisse . 


162 


— au Fromage .... 


34 


— d'Ecrevisses . . . . 


162 


— de Foie Gras . . . . 


35 


— de Yiande a la Fran- 




— aux CEufs .... 


35 


caise 


163 


— a la Wellington . . . 


35 


— de Pommes de Terre 


163 


— a la Victoria .... 


36 


— de Pommes de Terre a 




— aux Laitences de Ca- 




I'Allemande . . . 


164 


billaud 


36 


— a la Polonnaise 


. 


165 


— auFromage deGruyere 


37 


— a la Flamande 




166 


' — a I'Americaine . . 


37 


— de Jambon . . 




166 


1 — aux Sardines et Toma- 




— a I'ltalienne . 

— a la Kusse . . 


167 


,168 
167 


tes 


37 


— a la Princesse . . 


38 


— aux Truffes . 


. 


169 


— a la St. Jacqv.es . . 


38 



INDEX. 





PAGE 




FA on 


Sandwiches de Gibier . . 


39 


Savoury Toast(Cold Meat) 


75 


— a la Lucullns .... 


40 


— Marrow on Toast . . 


76 


— a la Chasseur .... 


41 


— Potatoes, Stufted . . 


83 


— de Saumon 


41 


— Potatoes 


86 


— au Saumon Fume . . 


41 


— Mushrooms .... 


88 


— au Fromage et Viande 




— Vegetable MarroAvs 




a I'Anglaise .... 


42 


with Onions .... 


90 


— aux Huitres .... 


42 


— Cucumber, Stuffed . . 


91 


— aux Cornichons et aux 


42 


— Cabbao'e 


f)3 


(Eufs 


— Broad-Beans .... 


94 


— de Pain Noir au From- 




— Lentils 


94 


age . 


143 


— Artichokes, Stuffed . 


97 


Sardine Bonne-Bouches a 




— French Beans, Poulette 


99 


la Eoyale 


14 


— Peas with Ham . . . 


99 


— with Poached Eggs . 


50 


— Carrots 


100 


— aux (Eufs Poches a 




— Salsifits ...... 


103 


I'Allemande .... 


50 


— Dish of Eggs .... 

— Omelet 


110 


— Canapees 


51 


111 


— Grillees en Papilottes . 


51 


— Omelet, Parisian style 111 


— au Jambon .... 


52 


— Souffle Omelet . . . 


118 


— a la Provencale . . . 


52 


— Semolina . . . . . 


138 


— a la Diable 


52 


— Hominy 


191 


— Croustade wdth Cheese 


53 


Sausage Omelet .... 


113 


— au Fromage .... 


53 


Scalloped Salsifits . . . 


104 


— and Tomato Sand- 




Scotch Bare Bit ... , 


140 


wdches 


37 


— Woodcock 


142 


Sauced Salmon .... 


13 


Scolloped Lobster . . . 


46 


Saumon Marine .... 


13 


Smoked Cod-Eoe Cana- 




Sauced Fish 


13 


pees 


8 


Saumon au Gratin . . . 


45 


— Hamburg Beef . . . 


24 


— Fume a la Diable . . 


47 


— Fish-Fritters .... 


44 


Saute of French Beans 


99 


— Herrings, Bruxelloise. 


63 


Sauce Froide a la Eo^-ale. 


165 


Savoury Eggs, Maitre 




Savoury Kedgeree . . . 


44 


d'Hotel 


132 


— Crab with Tomato 




Smoked Cod's Eoe Crou- 




Sauce 


49 


tons 


164 


— of Dried Haddock . . 


49 


— Salmon Sandwiches . 


41 


Savoureux de Merluche 




Shrimp-Sandwiches . . 


34 


Fumee 


49 


-Salad 


162 


Savoury Anchovy Toast . 


55 


Sheep's-Bread Croutes . . 


183 


— Oysters 


57 


Snails as Hors d'CEuvre . 


9 


— Meat Rolls .... 


66 


— with Fine Herb Butter 


9 


— MarroAv 


67 


Souffles Savoureux a la 




— Game Patties, Cordon 




Salisbur}^ 


2 


rouge style .... 


69 


Sorrel with Poached Eggs 107 


— Souffles', Salisbury style 


72 


Souffles au Fromage . . 


134 


— Ham Patties .... 


74 


Spanish Appetizers. . . 


11 



INDEX. 



PAG** 

Sparghetti a la Tomate . 144 

— with Tomato Sauce . 144 
Spinach, French stjde . 10(i 
Sportsman Sandwiches . 41 
Stewed Peas with Lettuce 100 

— Peas Francaise . . . 100 

— Celery Maitre d'Hotel. 102 

— Beetroot in Sauce . . 101 
Stuffed Eggs a la Russe . 27 

— Tomatoes, Gourmet 

style 79 

— Potatoes 81 

Sb, James' Sandwiches . 38 
Supreme Sauce .... 198 
Summer Salad . . . .158 

Sapper Salad 155 

Superior Sandwiches 

Butter 81 

Sweetbread Patties, Alle- 

mande 71 

Swiss Salad 155 

Swiss Chicken Salad . . 162 
Savourj^ Dishes of Fish . 44 

— Meat Dishes .... 05 

— Dishes of Vegetables . 78 
Stuffed Eggs with Nou- 

illes and Ham . . . 127 

— with Cream .... 127 

— a ritalienne .... 129 

— with Parsley .... 129 

Scotch Eggs 131 

Scrambled Eggs. . . . 131 
Sour Fruit Salads . . . 177 



TARTINES de Caviar . 20 
-*- Tartare Salad a la 

Soyer 168 

Tartare Sauce . . . .173 

— Sauce 201 

Tarragon Maj'onnaisa 

Sauce 175 

Thon Marine 12 

— Marine sur Canapes . 12 
Tomato Darioles ... 26 
Tomates a la Lucullus . 26 
Tomatoes with Cheese . 78 



Tomates au Fromage . 

— sur Pain Grilles . . 
•Tomatoes on Toast . . 

— Style " Gratin " . . 
Tomates au Gratin . . 
Tomato Fritters . 
Tomates Farcies a k 

Gourmet .... 
— ■ a la E,eforme . . . 
Tomato Savour}' . . 
Tomates aux Fines Herbes 
Tomato Sandwiches . 
Tomates en Salade . . 
Tomato Salad. . . . 

— and Pear Salad . . 

— Omelet 

— Sauce 

Tongue Canapees . . 

— Toast 

Topinambours a la Lyon 

naise 

— a ritalienne . . . 
Toasted Cheese . . . 
Tranches Viennoise a la 

Tomate .... 

— de Caviar a la Remou 

lade 

Truffles in Crusts . . 
Truffes Sautees Metropole 
Truffles in Crust, Italienne 

— Careme st^de .... 
Truffes Farcies a la Careme 
Truffle Salad 

— Omelet 

Tunny-fish 

Tunny Canapees . . . 



AGE 

78 
78 
78 
79 
79 
79 

79 

80 

81 

81 

32 

156 

156 

177 

116 

199 

23 

74 

96 

96 

142 

16 

19 
107 
108 
108 
108 
108 
169 
112 
12 
12 



VEGETABLE Marrow 
* Pickle 49 

— Marrow Fritters . . 89 

— Marrow with Cheese . 90 

— Curry 176 

Venison Omelet .... Ill 

— Croquets 67 

— Eissoles 67 

Victoria Sandwiches . . 36 
Vinaigrette Sauce . . 28, 174 



214 



INDEX, 



PAGE 




PAGE 


VyELSH Rare Bit . . 139 
'' — Bare Bit, Ameri- 


Winter Salad. . . . 


. 159 


— Salad, Poefs Recipe 


. 159 


can style 140 


White Cabbage Curry 


. 185 


— Eare Bit, English style 140 






West Indian Mullii^a- 






tawny 190 


/IGARASalaRuss? 
^ Zudree Rice . . . 


. 141 


AVhite Sauce 196 


. 182 



M '. 



:^ ^^nm^Mx 






VV 










