7?? 



I 




*«tf9 



■■ ■ — ■■ 

■ ■ '■■ ■■■ ' — — V) ' H.U' 



-rr^- 




■— ii^mau 



7 



LIBRARY OF,CONGRESS, 







Chap.- A- Copyright No. 
Shell. 



UNITED STATES OF AMERICA. 




r 



THE 



HOUSEKEEPEK 



COOK BOOK. 




Home is a gateway to a higher sphere, 

Guard it with Love, and fill it with good cheer. 



*f.C° l 



THE HOUSEKEEPER PUBLISHING COMPANY, 

MINNEAPOLIS, MINN. 
1894. 






Copyright by 

The Housekeeper Publishing Co., 

1894. 



PUBLISHERS' NOTICE. 



The sustained demand for the Buckeye Cook Books, 
known as the Buckeye Cookery and Practical House- 
keeping, has led to the production of the present 
volume, comprising the most valuable matter of the 
old books and hundreds of fresh recipes, together with 
about three hundred pages of general and practical 
housekeeping information, as indicated in the table of 
contents and particularized in the index. 
Minneapolis, September, 1894. 



" Man cannot live by bread alone," 
He wants his menu good, 
He wants a wife who's not above 
Preparing dainty food, 

The way, then, to the hearts of men 

(Man's not the only sinner) 
Is by a cleanly, well-set board, 

And by a well-cooked dinner. 

" Good cooks are born, not made," they say, 
The saying's most untrue, 
Hard trying, and these prime recipes 
Will make good cooks of you. 

E. H. C. 



TABLE OP CONTENTS. 



PAGES. 

Bread 7 

Cake 94 

Confectionery ■ 148 

Desserts 165 

Drinks 232 

Eggs 248 

Fish 266 

Fruits 204 

Ice Cream and Ices 336 

Meats 347 

Pickles 418 

Relishes , 436 

Salads 447 

Soups 458 

Vegetables 478 

Time Table 409 

Table of Weights and Measures 411 

Foods 412 

A Year's Menu 524 

All Around the House 556 

Between Times 634 

Dairying 659 

The Family 665 

Manners 699 

The Toilet 710 

Miscellaneous 724 

Alphabetical Index ' 733 

Supplementary Index 755 



BREAD. 



THE motto of the New York Cooking Academy is : "Since 
we must eat to live, let us prepare our food in such a man- 
ner that our physical, intellectual and moral capacities may be ex- 
tended as far as desired by our Creator," and with this object in 
mind, bread, as the " staff of life," will be first considered, and 
especial attention given to its great variety, and the necessary 
processes through which it passes in preparation for use. 

Flour made from wheat, and meal from oats and Indian corn, 
are rich in the waste-repairing elements, starch and albumen, and 
man is necessarity dependent upon them to a degree much greater 
than commonly supposed. 

Wheat and flour contain gluten in different proportion to the 
many varieties. Flour in which gluten abounds will absorb more 
liquid than that which contains a greater amount of starch, and is 
therefore stronger, that is, will make more bread to a given quan- 
tity. Gluten is a flesh, and starch a heat producer, in the nutri- 
tive processes of the body. 

Neither gluten nor starch dissolve in cold water. Gluten is a 
grayish, tough, elastic substance, and flour containing it in a fair 
quantity adheres to the hand when compressed, and shows the im- 
print of the skin, but starchy flour crumbles and lacks the adhe- 
sive property. 

Milk or water used in mixing bread softens the gluten and ce- 
ments the particles of flour, preparatory to the action of the car- 
bonic acid gas. In bread made from } T east this gas and alcohol 
are formed by the fermentation of the yeast, combining with the 



8 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

sugar in the flour as well as the sugar added to the flour. The 
expansion, caused by the efforts of the gas to escape through the 
strong elastic walls cf the cells of gluten, changes the solid dough 
into a light, spongy mass. The kneading process distributes the 
yeast thoroughly through the dough, making the grain firm and 
even. 

In baking, the heat breaks the starch cells, renders the gluten 
tender, converts the water into steam, the alcohol into vapor, and 
increases the size of the loaf through the expansion of the car- 
bonic acid gas, though one-sixth of its weight is lost by this evap- 
oration. It is now "food convenient" for all. 

Opinions differ as to the comparative merits of fine flour, gra- 
ham, and entire wheat flour bread. That made from the former 
gains its whiteness and fineness at the expense of its nutritious 
properties, the part of the grain furnishing them being largel}' 
eliminated through the special manufacturing process, but bread 
made wholly or in part from the two latter varieties is proportion- 
ately nourishing, strengthening, and easily digested. 

The common or "straight" brands of flour are used b}' the 
great majority of families, and from each of them good, palatable 
and uniform bread can be made. Good bread makes the home 
liest meal acceptable, and there is no one thing so necessary to 
the health and comfort of a family. In selecting flour buy that of 
a cream tint, that will not work into a sticky mass when damp- 
ened by the fingers, that will not fall like powder if thrown against 
a smooth surface, and that will retain, as before stated, the ; m 
pression of the hand when compressed within it. 

Flour should be kept dry, cool, and entirely beyond the reach 
of vermin, big or little, for the tiny meal moth is far more to be 
dreaded than rats or mice. Buy at first, if possible, a barrel of 
flour ; the barrel will prove a good investment for the future, as 
all smaller purchases of flour can be emptied into it. Let it stand 
on four blocks of wood, thus ensuring a current of fresh air be- 
neath it. 

Do not buy less than one hundred pounds, for cleanness and 
economy's sake, unless obliged to use the flour and meal bins 
buiJt into many pantries of the modern houses. If so, buy a 



BREAD. 9 

smaller amount, as these bins, being more difficult to care for, 
need frequent attention. Every receptacle of flour should be 
often and thoroughly cleansed, to guard against animal as well as 
vegetable parasites. Never put into the flour, for even a day, a 
roll of dough or pastry for later use. A single speck of mold, 
coming from any cause, will leaven the whole flour as rapidly and 
strongly as ten times its weight in yeast. 

All kinds of flour and meal, except buckwheat and graham — 
and graham, if very coarse — need sifting, and should be bought in 
small quantities, as they become damp and musty by long stand- 
ing. After sifting flour or meal, be very careful to empty the 
sieve before putting it back into the barrel or bin. 

Good flour, good yeast and watchful care are indispensable to 
successful bread-making. A large, seamless tin pan, with han- 
dles and a tight-fitting cover, should be kept for bread-making 
only, and thoroughly washed and scalded whenever used. A 
crockery bowl holding from eight to twelve quarts can be used, if 
preferred, but must be closely covered by a well-folded cloth. 

Bread should undergo but one, the saccharine or sweet fer- 
mentation ; if it passes to the second, the vinous or alcoholic fer- 
mentation, the larger part of the nutritious properties of the flour 
are destroyed ; if it reaches the third, or acetous stage, the bread 
is soured and utterly unfit for use. Never use sour yeast. The 
temperature of the bread in rising should be blood warm ; if less, 
it is liable to sour ; if greater, it may be scalded, or become full 
of large pores and lose its firm, smooth grain. It is as important 
for the dough to rise as well after being made out into loaves, 
rolls, or biscuits as before ; therefore allow a sufficient time for 
rising, and cover over the tops of the pans with a bread-cloth, 
removing it a few moments before baking. A good general rule 
to follow is this : If well kneaded down, let the loaf double its 
size in rising ; if only partially kneaded, let it rise but one-half. 
Much depends on the flour, the heat of the day and the previous 
rising, but personal judgment and experience must guide at this 
point as well as others. 

Before putting the loaves into the oven prick them in three 
places with a steel fork, that part of the gas generated in rising 



1 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

may escape and prevent the possibility of too great expansion in 
baking, which would make the texture of the bread coarse and 
open instead of smooth and fine. In baking, keep the oven, at a 
uniform temperature, except that the heat may slacken a very 
little toward the last. The oven is of good heat if flour will 
brown in it at the end of a minute. 

The best pan for baking bread is made of Russia iron, which 
costs but little more than tin, and is much more durable. Let it 
be five by ten or twelve inches on the bottom, flaring a little to 
the top, and four aiid one-half inches deep. It should be well, 
though lightly, greased. One hour is the average time for baking, 
though much depends on the action of the stove. See that the 
fire is so regulated as not to need replenishing during the hour. 
The finest bread may be completely spoiled in the baking, and a 
freshly-made fire cannot be easily regulated. Open the oven door 
as seldom as possible, and close it carefully. If necessary, the 
pan may be gently turned around, after twent} 7 minutes. The 
heat of the oven should be steady, but if from any cause it be- 
comes too great put a pan of cold water on the upper slide, or 
turn a pan over the loaf, or cover it with a piece of clean, brown 
paper. A slide, or a low, flat tin may be put under the pans. 

If bread or cake is well and sufficiently baked, there will be no 
sound of cracking in the loaf when quickly held to the ear ; a 
broom splinter passed into it will come out as dry and free as at 
first. A loaf can be held on the hand without burning the palm. 
The bread will also have the odor of fresh, sweet flour. 

On a clean shelf or table, near the window, lay a well- folded 
linen cloth, an old table-cloth will serve nicely, and as the well 
browned loaves come from the .oven, either lay them upon it or 
slightl}' tip them, one just touching the other, and leave them un- 
covered till cool. If preferred, a cloth can cover them. Never, 
on any account, put the warm loaves on wood or stone. 

Should the bread be baked too hard, rub the loaf with fresh 
butter ; then cover it with a clean brown paper, laying a cloth 
over that. 

When thoroughly cool, the bread must be put into a close-cov- 
ered stone jar, or tin box, which should be well scalded and dried 



BREAD. H 



each baking clay. If a jar is used tie a heavy linen cloth, twice 
folded at least, over the top, which should be some inches above 
the bread On a hot, windy day in summer, paving considerable 
unused bread on hand, take a cup of cold water, and sprinkle well 
the cloth so that the bread may be kept fresh and moist. If a 
heavy line of chalk is drawn around the jar, no insects will crawl 
over it In cutting warm bread for the table, heat the knife, and 
it is better to replenish the bread plate than to have slices left 
over to dry or waste. 

Rolls and biscuit should bake quickly. Baking powder and 
soda biscuit should be made rapidly, placed in hot pans, and put 
into a quick oven. Let gem pans be well heated and greased 
If stone cups are to be used, see that they are well greased and 

very hot. ... 

Be very careful to use the best baking powder, and always sift 
it with the flour. Use bi-carbonate of soda, not saleratus, in cook- 
ing Take two parts of cream of tartar to one of soda, if sweet milk 
is used in cooking. Free the powder from lumps, and either sift 
well the cream of tartar and soda with the flour, or the cream of 
tartar alone, and dissolve the soda in the milk by beating it for one 
minute Soda should be dissolved in the same manner in sour 
milk. Always use y<low corn meal in every recipe where meal is 
called for, unless the white is specified. 

In measuring, a * tablespoon is the size of an ordinary silver 
tablespoon. A teaspoon means a spoon rounded above, as the 
bowl is below; a heaping spoon what can be added to the 
rounded measure, and a level measure is just even with the 
sides of the spoon. A half teaspoon divides the length and not 
the breadth of the spoon. A salt spoon is equivalent to one quar- 
ter of a teaspoon. One cup of yeast is equivalent to one yeast 



12 HOUSEKEEPER COQK BOOK. 

YEAST. 

Yeast is naturall}' a, most unstable sort of commodity, but 
its main characteristic is that upon the very slightest provocation 
it will rise. During one week it contradicted its usual methods 
and shrunk in a most amazing way. One Saturday it sold for 
twenty cents a pound, the next Monday it sold for five cents a 
pound, and in a few days rose again to twenty cents a pound. In- 
vestigation into the cause of the fluctuation in price revealed the 
existence of a double-riveted trust, which controls the price of 
yeast and holds it at a figure which pays the members of the trust 
a handsome profit. A pound of } r east cut into squares wrapped in 
tinfoil will make forty cakes, which are sold by the manufacturer 
at one cent each and retail for two cents. The consumer of this 
j^east then pays eighty cents a pound. The profit is sixt}'-eigbt 
cents, of which the retailer makes forty and the manufacturer 
twent3 r -eight cents. Compressed yeast is made from whiskies, 
vinegars, and low wines, and could be retailed at fifteen cents a 
pound, with a fair margin of profit for manufacturer and retailer. 

It is economy, therefore, to use homemade yeast. Here are a 
few good recipes : 

yeast— 1. 
1 quart sliced potatoes, % cup yeast, 

1 large handful hops, % cup sugar, 

1 tablespoon ginger, % cup salt, 

2 quarts water. 
Put hops and ginger in a bag to boil 15 minutes. Then 
take out hops, and add potatoes. Boil till they can be passed 
easily through a sieve. Mix with the salt, sugar and water in a 
jar. When cool add yeast, tie a cloth over the top and set in a 
warm place to rise. This } r east will keep good three weeks in a 
cool place. 

yeast — 2. 
6 potatoes, medium, 3 tablespoons salt, 

Small handful hops, 3 tablespoons sugar, 

1 cup flour, 1 tablespoon ginger, 

1 cup yeast, Water to make 2 quarts. 

Put the ginger and hops into a bag, drop into the boiling water ; 
let boil for 15 minutes. Cook the potatoes, mash, and mix 



YEAST. 13 

them well with the flour to which has been added the sugar and 
salt. Over ail pour the boiling hop water, and beat till the mix- 
ture is smooth. Turn into a stone jar, and when cool add the 
yeast. Set in a warm place to rise. This will be sweet and good 
for some weeks if kept in a cool, dark place. Omit the hops, use 
the boiling ginger water to scald the flour, and this rule makes a 
nice potato yeast. 

No other yeast is made with so little trouble as potato yeast. 
Bread made from it keeps moist longer, and there is no danger 01 
injuring its flavor by using too much. 

yeast — 3. 
6 potatoes, medium, 1 tablespoon salt, 

% cup sugar, % cup yeast. 

Boil potatoes till done, mash very fine or press through a sieve, 
pour on the water they were boiled in, add the sugar and salt, and 
when lukewarm stir in the yeast. It should now be quite thin ; 
let rise, and keep in a cool place, but where it will not freeze. A 
large cupful makes eight or nine loaves of bread. 

yeast — 4. 
6 potatoes, 1 tablespoon salt, 

Small handful hops, 2 tablespoons molasses, 

\i cup yeast, 2 quarts water. 

Tie the hops in a bag and boil with the potatoes in 2 quarts 
of water. Take out potatoes, mash fine and pour the water over 
them ; add salt, molasses, and thicken with flour. When cool, add 
yeast or 1 yeast cake dissolved in water. Cover, and set near 
the fire. Keep in a jar in a cool place. This must not freeze. 

yeast — 5. 

6 potatoes, 1 handful hops, 

2 tablespoons salt, 1 cup yeast, 

1 cup flour, % cup sugar, 
1 quart water. 

Put the hops into a bag and boil 15 minutes. Pour the hop 
water over the flour, add the potatoes, having rubbed through a 
colander. Stir well after adding sugar and salt, when cool, add 
yeast or a yeast cake, which has been soaked. This yeast keeps 
well two weeks. 



14 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

YEAST — 6. 

1 quart hops, 1 tablespoon salt, 

1)4 quarts water, 1 tablespoon molasses, 

1 cup flour or shorts, 1 tablespoon brown sugar. 

Put hops into a porcelain kettle, or bright tin pan, pour on boil- 
ing water, let simmer until the strength has been obtained. Strain 
the hop water over the salt, sugar, and molasses. When milk- 
warm add flour or shorts, and pour into bottles, filling each half 
full. Cork the bottles securely, and set them in a warm place. 
Shake daily, and in less than a week the corks will fly out, unless 
care is used. Or there can be added to this mixture a half cup 
of any good yeast, and it will be ready for ^ise in 24 hours. 
Keep it in a cool place, and shake it well before using. 

CORN YEAST — 1. 
9 medium sized potatoes, 1 pint old yeast, 

1 cup parched field corn, 2)4 tablespoons salt, 

1 cup white sugar, 1 large handful hops. 

Water enough to make 4 quarts. 
Boil the corn and hops together for 1 hour. Boil and mash 
the potatoes, then strain the hop water over them ; add sugar, 
salt, and old yeast, then the water. Let it stand 24 hours 
and it will bubble like water boiling; then cork it tightly in 
cans and let it stand in a cool place. It will keep three months in 
cold weather. 

CORN YEAST — 2. 

6 potatoes, medium, 1 cup sugar, 

2 cups parched corn, 1 cup salt, 

2 handfuls hops, 1 cup yeast, 

Water to make 1 gallon. 

Boil corn, potatoes, and hops, the latter in a bag, in 2 quarts 
of water until the potatoes are tender enough to mash easily ; take 
them out, mash them fine, and strain the water over them ; pour 
cold water over the hop bag and squeeze it to get all the strength 
out. Now add enough warm water to make 1 gallon of the liquid, 
then sugar, salt, yeast, or 1£ yeast cakes. Stir well, put in a 
warm jug, and leave it uncorked all day in a warm place. Now 
cork it tightly, and set it on the cellar floor, where it will keep 
five weeks even during the hot weather. 



YEAST. 15 

POTATO YEAST. 1. 

6 large potatoes, % cup sugar, 

2 large handfuls hops, 1 tablespoon salt, 

2 quarts water, 1 tablespoon ginger. 

Put the loose hops into the water and boil slowly 1 hour. 
Pare and grate the potatoes into a two-gallon jar, add the sugar, 
salt, ginger, and pour the boiling water over this mixture, stirring 
constantly. When milkwarm, add yeast, set in a warm place 
until it rises, and remove to the cellar or some other cool place. 
The boiling hop water must be added to potatoes immediately or 
they will darken, and darken the yeast. A good way to prevent 
the potatoes from darkening is to grate them into a pan half filled 
with cold water. As grated, the potatoes sink to the bottom ; 
when done grating, pour off the water and add the boiling hop- 
water. This is an excellent recipe, and the method given for boil- 
ing hops is especially recommended. 

POTATO YEAST — 2. 
4 potatoes, medium, 1 cup white sugar, 

1 large handful hops, 1 cup yeast, 

1 gallon water, K cup salt. 

Boil and mash fine the potatoes, and add, after straining the 
hop water, salt, sugar, and sufficient water to make a gallon. 
When cool, add yeast, and let stand in a warm place until it will 
"sing" on being stirred, when it is ready for use. Keep covered 
in a cool place. 

\ DRY YEAST. 

2 large potatoes, % cup sugar, 

1 handful hops, 1 tablespoon salt, 

1 cup yeast, 1 tablespoon ginger, 

3 pints water. 

Boil potatoes and hops (the latter in a bag) in the water. 

Take out the potatoes when done, mash well, add 1 pint of 

flour, and pour the boiling water over all; beat well, adding salt, 

ginger and sugar. When lukewarm, add yeast, and let it stand 

1 or 2 days according to the heat of the weather, stirring 

down frequently. Add good white corn meal until stiff enough to 

make into cakes about ^ inch in thickness. Place to dry in 

the shade ( never expose to the sun or to stove heat ) where the air 

will pass freeh', so as to dry them as soon as possible, as the fer- 



16 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

mentation goes on as long as there is any moisture ; turn the cakeE 
frequently, breaking them up somewhat, or even crumbling, so 
they will dry out evenly and quickly ; when thoroughly dried put 
in a paper sack, and keep in a dry place. A small cake will 
make a sponge sufficient to bake five or six ordinary loaves. 

YEAST CAKES. 

Take a bowl of good, fresh yeast and thicken it with fine Indian 
meal until stiff enough to roll out ; cover, and let rise ; then roll 
and cut in small, thin squares or slices. Dry them on a board in 
the shade in windy weather, turn them frequently till dry, then 
put them in a paper bag in a dry place. 

RECIPES FOR MAKING BREAD. 

mother's bread. 
Put about 2 quarts of flour into a pan, and pour boiling 
water over it until nearly all the flour is wet. Stir the flour while 
pouring in the water. Now add 1 pint of cold water, and beat 
well. Let it stand until lukewarm, then add 1 cup of No. 1 
yeast, butter the size of an egg and ^ teaspoon soda, and flour to 
make a stiff batter. Turn it out on the moulding board and work 
in more flour by slashing it with a sharp knife. Slash and add 
flour, and knead unci) the dough is stiff and smooth. Too much 
flour cannot be worked into it. Let it stand until morning, then 
knead it down without removing it from the pan. After break- 
fast, turn it out on the board, and knead it for 10 minutes, then 
put it back and let it rise as much as possible without smelling 
like wine, then make it into loaves. When the loaves are light, 
they should be put into a hot oven, which is allowed to cool grad- 
ually until the bread is done. Bread made in this wa}- will keep 
fresh a long time. 

BREAD RAISED ONCE. 
1 quart water, 1 pint potato yeast, 

3 quarts flour, 2 teaspoons salt. 

To make 3 loaves of bread, sift the flour into the pan, add 
salt and pour in slowly the water, lukewarm ; afterward add yeast, 
stirring constantly. If hop yeast is used take 1 cup, or, if pre- 
ferred, 1 cake compressed yeast dissolved in tepid water. Mix 



BREAD. 17 

thoroughly, adding flour, until a stiff dough is formed ; place on 
the bread-board, knead vigorously for 20 minutes or more, 
flouring the board frequently to prevent the dough from sticking 
to it, divide into loaves of a size to suit pans, mould into a comely 
shape, place in pans, rub over the top a light coating of sweet, 
drawn butter, set in a warm, not too hot place to rise, cover 
lightly to keep off dust and air, watch and occasionally turn the 
pans around when necessary to make the loaves rise evenly ; when 
risen to about double the original size, draw across the top of each 
lengthwise with a sharp knife, making a slit half an inch deep, 
place them in a moderately heated oven, and bake 1 hour, 
watching carefully from time to time to make certain that a 
proper degree of heat is kept up. Before browning they will rise 
to double the size of loaf which was placed in the oven, and pans 
must be provided deep enough to retain them in shape. Bake 
until well done and nicely browned, Nothing adds more to the 
sweetness and digestibility of wheaten bread than thorough baking. 
When done, remove from pans immediately, to prevent the sweat- 
ing and softening of the crust. 

BREAD RAISED TWICE. 

4 quarts flour, 1 tablespoon sugar, 

1 pint milk, 1 tablespoon salt, 

1 pint water, 1 tablespoon lard, 

1 cup yeast. 
Measure out the flour, take out a pint in a cup, and place re- 
mainder in a breadpan. Make a well in the middle, into which 
turn sugar, salt, and yeast ; then mix in milk which has been 
made bloodwarm by adding the boiling water ; beat well with a 
strong spoon, add lard, knead for 20 or 30 minutes, and let rise 
over night ; in the morning knead again, make into loaves, let 
them rise 1 hour, and bake 50 minutes. Water may be used in- 
stead of the pint of milk, in which case use twice as much lard. 

BREAD RAISED THREE TIMES. 

1 quart flour, 1 cup yeast, 

4 pints water, % cup sugar, 

8 potatoes, }4 cup lard, 

1 tablespoon salt. 

In planning for 6 loaves, begin about 5 p. m. Take yeast, 



18 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

No. 2, add the flour and tepid water, beat together thoroughly, 
and set in a warm place. This should rise in about 2 hours; 
and when nearly light, take 6 or 8 medium sized potatoes, 
pare neatly, rinse clean, and boil in 3 pints of water till well 
done, mash very fine in the water while hot. Have ready a bread- 
pan of sifted flour, into which put salt, sugar, and lard ; then 
riddle the potato mash, hot as it is, through a sieve or fine colan- 
der into the flour, and stir into a stiff dough. This scalds about 
half the flour used in the batch of bread. This mass must cool 
till it will not scald the yeast, which may now be mixed in and 
put in a warm, not hot, place for second rising, which will be ac- 
complished by morning, when the kneading may be done. 
Kneading is the finest point of breadmaking, and contains more 
of the art than any other ; it requires skill, time, patience, and 
hard work. Work in flour no faster than is required to allow 
thorough kneading, which cannot be done in less than 45 
minutes, but should not be worked much over an hour. The 
working of the dough gives grain and flakiness to the bread. The 
dough should be soft, not sticky, and stiff enough to retain its 
roundness on the board. Put back into the pan for the third 
rising, which will require little time, and, when light, cut off 
enough for each loaf .by itself, knead but little, and put into pans. 
If the first kneading has been well done, no more flour will be 
necessary in making the loaves. These must rise till nearly as 
large as they ought to be, and then put into a well-heated oven. 
From 40 to 60 minutes will cook it. If the yeast is set at 5 
p. m. , the bread will be ready for dinner the next day ; if in 
the morning, the baking will be done early in the evening, or 
12 hours after, with good yeast and fair temperature. Bread 
made in this way will be good for a week, and, with fair weather 
and careful keeping, even for two weeks. 

HOP-YEAST BREAD. 
3 pints warm water, 1 teacup yeast. 

Make a thin sponge of the yeast, water and flour, and let it re- 
main till quite light. Knead into a loaf before going to bed ; in 
the morning, mould into 3 loaves. When light, bake an hour. 
Bread made in this way is never soggy or heavy. To have 



BREAD. 



19 



fine, light biscuit, add the lard or butter at night, and in the 
morning make into biscuit and bake for breakfast. By this 
recipe bread is baked early, leaving the oven free for other 
articles. 

YEAST AND BREAD TOGETHER — 1. 

On the evening before breadmaking day, peel and boil 2 
medium sized potatoes ; mash them in the water in which they 
were boiled, and pour the mixture, boiling hot, into the breadpan 
into which has been put 2 tablespoons flour and 1 each of salt 
and sugar. The yeast should be as thin as gruel. Now strain it 
through a colander, and when it has cooled a little, add a small 
cup of yeast and set it in a warm place to rise. In the morning, 
sift flour into the breadpan, make a hole in the middle, pour in 
the yeast, and partially stir it into the flour. Add a quart of luke- 
warm water with a teaspoon salt dissolved in it, then stir until 
stiff enough to knead. Knead it 15 minutes, then put it into 
the breadpan, whiph must be dusted with flour ; put another pan 
over it, and set it where it will rise slowly, as bread that has been 
hurried is not so good. If it becomes stiff on top before it is 
light, cover it with a cloth dipped in warm water. When light 
enough, the pan will lift easily and not as if it held a dead weight ; 
then it must be turned on to the breadboard, kneaded quickly and 
lightly into a long roll and cut into loaves. The less the loaves 
are kneaded and the less flour added, the better the bread will be. 
When the tins begin to feel quite light, the bread is ready to bake. 
The oven should be quite hot at first, and allowed to cool off grad- 
ually while the bread is baking, but the fire must not get very low 
until the bread is done, which will be in about 40 minutes. 
When the bread is baked, put a plate in a pan, turn the bread on 
to it and cover with another pan ; when it is cool, raise the pan, 
wipe off the steam, and replace it, keeping it there until used up. 

YEAST AND BREAD TOGETHER 2. 

Use about a pint of mashed potatoes ; strain them through a 
colander, with the water in which they are boiled, into a vessel con- 
taining about a pint of flour. After this is well stirred, and cooled 
until lukewarm, add 2 tablespoons of the yeast and set the 
sponge in a warm place to rise. It will usually be light in about 



20 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

6 hours, and should be made into a sponge in the regular way 
by adding warm water and flour. "When this second sponge has 
risen, mix it into dough. This method takes a great deal of time, 
but makes the best bread. These directions are for white bread, 
but graham bread may be made in the same way, by adding mo- 
lasses, a little shortening, and graham flour instead of white when 
mixing the second sponge. 

Empty the mashed potatoes left from dinner into it, but do not 
stir it up until the yeast is soaked. Let it soak until night, then 
stir it up and add warm water, a tablespoon, each of sugar and 
salt, and sift in flour enough to make a stiff batter. Beat this 
well, and set in a warm place over night. Mix as early as possi- 
ble in the morning, and be sure to knead it a good while, 20 
minutes at least, as that makes smooth, white bread. 

Grease the bottom and sides of a crock with lard, the same one 
the sponge was made in — use a crock, because when it gets warm 
it retains the heat better than any tin or wooden ware, and the 
dough does not dry and form a a crust on the outside — and let it 
rise, then knead again. If kneaded properly the first time, so as 
to have the dough stiff enough, knead it a very little this time. 
Let it rise again, and mould into loaves, and bake when light 
enough. If homemade yeast is preferred, it can be used just as 
well. By following these directions, good bread can be secured 
without the trouble of cooking potatoes on purpose, and having 
more dishes to wash. 

grandma's bread. 

Set the bread at night, and if kept warm it is ready to mix 
early in the morning. Knead down 2 or 3 times before put- 
ting it into the pans. Never take the dough from the pan when 
kneading it, but press it down gently to get out the gases, and, at 
the last, give a few "doubles " to pull in the edges, then turn it 
over. When putting it in the pans, cut off enough dough for a 
loaf, roll it with the hands until it is a foot in length ; roll this up 
and press it together in the shape of a loaf, and when it is baked 
it will be in layers, light and feathery, and not full of tiny holes. 
Just as the loaves begin to brown, brush them quickly with sweet 
milk, and the crust will be tender and delicious. 



BREAD. 21 

COFFEE BREAD. 
i quart flour, "% sugar,cup white 

IX cups warm milk, H cup yeast, 

1 cup stoned raisins, 1 egg, 

% cup butter, K teaspoon cinnamon. 

Measure the flour before sifting, then sift, add sugar, and rub 
in the butter. Mix in the yeast, add the milk, and knead for 
15 minutes. Cover, and let rise all day. In the evening add 
the egg, well beaten, and knead thoroughly. Cover well, and let 
rise all night. Stir in the cinnamon and raisins in the morning. 
Make up, using as little flour as possible. Let rise to the top of 
the pan, and bake an hour in a moderate oven. This makes a 
large loaf. 

MILK BREAD. 

2 quarts milk, 1 cup sugar, 

3 quarts flour, X A cup butter. 

Scald fresh, sweet milk, and, when cool, make a sponge of the 
flour in which the butter has been rubbed. If rolls are wanted, 
add sugar when mixing it. Let stand until light, add flour 
enough to knead thoroughly. Let rise again, work over as be- 
fore, and mould into the desired shape. If the dough is kept in 
an earthen vessel and covered with tin, it will not need greasing 
while rising. Always butter the top of the dough when it is put 
into the pans to rise, and do not cover with a cloth when baked. 

BREAD WITHOUT KNEADING. 

1 quart milk, X A cup yeast, 

2 tablespoons butter. 

Warm the butter in the milk, do not let it become hot, add 
yeast when sufficiently cool, stir in all the flour possible with a 
spoon. Beat well, pour into pans, let rise and bake at once. 

WINTER BREAD. 

To make light bread in winter, on the day before baking have 
mashed potatoes for dinner. When the potatoes are cooked, 
drain the water into a crock or bowl and set it away to cool. 
When dinner is over put a cake of yeast foam, or as much dry 
yeast of any kind as used at a baking, in the potato water. 



22 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

RICE BREAD. 

2X cups warm milk, 7 cups flour, 

% cup butter, 3 eggs, 

% cup yeast, 2 tablespoons sugar, 

1 heaping cup boiled rice. 

If the rice is cooked in milk, use the same day and cool before 
using. If cold, and hard or lumpy, add a little milk and set 
the bowl into a basin of hot water on the stove, stirring until 
smooth. Do not let it become more than lukewarm. Rub the 
butter and sugar together, stir in the eggs, previously well beaten, 
2 cups of flour, milk, and the rest of the flour ; then add the 
rice and yeast, and beat well together for 10 minutes. Cover 
closely, and let rise over night. This quantity makes two small 
loaves, and should rise in the pans about 1£ hours, or above the 
top of the pan. Do not have a very hot oven, as this bread 
browns quickly. 

POTATO SPONGE. 

6 potatoes, 2 tablespoons sugar, 

3 cups flour, 2 tablespoons butter, 

1 cup yeast, 1 quart tepid water. 

Boil and mash potatoes ; while hot add sugar, butter and flour. 
Beat to a smooth batter and stir in the yeast. Let rise over night. 
Knead vigorously for 15 minutes in the morning. Set away, 
and, when light, knead and mould into medium sized loaves. Let 
rise and bake. 

POTATO BALL BREAD. 

1 cup mashed potatoes, 1 cake yeast, 

1 tablespoon sugar, 1 teaspoon salt. 

Soften the yeast cake in as little water as possible, then add to 
the potato, with which the sugar and salt have been thoroughly 
mixed. It will be ready for use in two days in winter — sooner in 
summer. Keep it in a covered bowl. Mix bread sponge with 2 
quarts of warm milk or water, and add half the potato ball. Let 
rise, and proceed as with other bread. To the other half of the 
ball, add a cup of potatoes, stirring thoroughly, and set away 
until the next baking day. If the sponge freezes it will not be in- 
jured. This method is pronounced a superior one. 



BREAD. 23 

SALT RISING BREAD — 1. 

Put 1 teaspoon salt into 1 pint water, stirring in enough flour to 
make a thin batter. Keep warm. If set at 6 a. m. , it should 
commenpe to rise about 11 o'clock. Let stand until it foams all 
over the top. Then add a pint of fresh milk warmed, and knead 
into loaves immediately. Bake as soon as risen, and you will not 
be troubled with any disagreeable odors. 

SALT RISING BREAD — 2. 
}4 cup corn meal, X A cup butter, 

1 pint warm water, 1 teaspoon salt, 

1* saltspoon soda, 1 teaspoon sugar, 

3 quarts flour. 
The evening before baking, scald the corn meal with enough 
sweet milk to make a moderately stiff batter. If set in a warm 
place this will be light in the morning. Add the water, soda, and 
sufficient flour to make quite stiff. Place in a pan of warm water 
to rise. For 5 loaves take 3 quarts of flour; add butter, salt, 
sugar and the sponge with water enough to make a stiff dough. 
Mould into loaves, let rise, and bake 45 minutes. Much depends 
on keeping the batter warm and the stove properly heated. 

SALT RISING BREAD 3. 

On the evening before baking d ay, pour about half a cup of boil- 
ing hot new milk on one tablespoon of corn meal, stir it well and 
let it stand in a warm place over night. It will not rise but will 
look light and foamy. In the morning make salt rising as usual, 
and add the prepared meal to it. Place the dish in a kettle of 
warm water, and keep it at an even temperature until the sponge 
is light, which will be in about two hours. The bread can be 
baked before noon. 

BREAD WITH BUTTERMILK. 

The evening before baking, bring 2 quarts sweet buttermilk to 
the boiling point, or boil sour milk and take the same quantity of 
the whey, and pour into a crock in which 1 small cup flour 
has been placed. Let stand till sufficiently cool, then add yeast, 
and flour to make a thick batter ; the better and longer the sponge 
is stirred the whiter will be the bread. In the morning sift the 
flour into the breadpan, pour the sponge in the center, stir in 



24 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

some of the flour, and let stand until after breakfast ; then mix, 
kneading for about half an hour, the longer the better ; when 
light, mould into loaves, this time kneading as little as possible. 
The secret of good bread is having good 3'east, and not baking 
too hard. This makes four loaves and foity biscuit. 

BAKING POWDER BREAD. 

1 quart flour, 3 teaspoons baking powder, 

2 tablespoons butter, 1 teaspoon salt. 

Sift the baking powder and salt into tha flour ; the sifting en- 
sures thorough mixing. Before wetting the flour, see that the 
oven is rather quick, that is, rather hotter than that required for 
bread ; if the hand can be held in the oven while 15 can be counted 
rapidly, the heat will be about right. Also butter the baking 
pan. These preparations being made, chop into the flour butter 
or good lard, and pour in sufficient water or milk to just moisten 
the flour. The tops of the loaves should be brushed with butter 
or milk ; no kneading is required ; as soon as the flour is wet put 
it at once into buttered pans, and bake it as rapidly as possible 
without burning. As the rising of the carbonic acid gas which is 
freed from the wet baking powder is what makes the dough light, 
it is important to fix the dough before the gas can escape. The 
process of making light biscuit or bread from baking powder is 
purely a mechanical operation, based upon the formation of these 
air, or rather gas cells, in the dough. If, as the gas forces its 
way up through, forming the cells, they can be fixed with heat so 
that their shape is retained after the dough is baked, it cannot fail 
to be light. . If, on the other hand, the gas is allowed to escape 
before the dough is fixed by heat during baking, there is no rea- 
son why it should be light. 

Let this simple statement of facts be remembered, and the 
dough made with baking powder be baked before the gas can es- 
cape, and there will be no complaint of heavy bread or biscuits. 
The flavor will, of course, depend upon the amount and kind of 
shortening used, and the brushing before baked. This recipe 
makes one medium loaf of bread. 



BREAD. 



25 



VIENNA BREAD — 1. 

1 pint milk, 6 or 7 cups flour, 

1 tablespoon butter, 1 cup yeast, 

1 tablespoon sugar, 1 teaspoon salt. 

Melt butter in hot milk. Measure milk after scalding and put 
in the mixing bowl with butter, sugar and salt. When cool, add 
yeast, and then stir in flour, adding it gradually after 5 cups 
have been put in, in order to be only stiff enough to knead. 
Knead till smooth and elastic. Cover ; let rise till light ; cut it 
down; divide into 4 parts and shape into loaves. Let rise 
again in the pans ; bake 45 or 50 minutes. 

VIENNA BREAD 2. 

Take the same proportions of the preceding recipe, except that 
about one less cup of flour is used, and the dough is not kneaded. 
Mix it with a knife, cutting it through and turning and working it 
over until all the dry flour is mixed with the other materials. Mix 
soft enough to be shaped into loaves after it has risen. Scrape 
the dough from the sides of the bowl ; smooth the top with a 
knife ; cover and let rise. Shape into loaves, and when light bake 
50 minutes. 

BOSTON BROWN BREAD 1. 

1 cup rye meal, 2 cups milk, 

1 cup Indian meal, 1 cup molasses, 

1 cup graham flour, 1 teaspoon salt, 

1 dessert spoon soda. 
Use sour milk, if possible, and if necessary 1 cup of water 
can be substituted for 1 cup milk ; add molasses, New Orleans 
or Porto Rico preferred, soda and salt. Into this stir the meal 
and flour, pour into a well-greased form or covered pail, put into 
a kettle of boiling water, and cook 3 hours. This may ap- 
pear too thin, but do not add anything more. The bread should 
not fill the pail over two-thirds full. See that the water does not 
boil over the pail ; also take care that it does not boil entirely 
away, or stop boiling. To serve it, remove the cover, set a few 
moments into the oven to dry off the top, and it will turn out in 
shape. 



26 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

BOSTON BROWN BREAD — 2. 
3 cups sour milk, % cup molasses, 

2 cups corn meal, 1 dessert spoon soda, 

2 cups graham or rye meal, 1 teaspoon salt. 

Mix thoroughly and steam 3 hours. Brown in the oven. 

KANSAS BROWN BREAD. 
1 cup corn meal, 1 cup sour milk, 

1 cup white flour, 1 cup molasses, 

1 cup graham flour, 1 teaspoon salt, 

1 teaspoon soda. 
Steam it 4 or 5 hours and set it in the oven a few minutes 
to brown. 

BROWN JO BREAD. 

2 cups corn meal, 1 cup molasses, 

2 cups white flour, 1 cup sour milk, 
1 teaspoon soda, 1 teaspoon salt. 

Mix well and steam 3 or 4 hours, then bake half an hour. 

STEAMED BROWN BREAD 1. 

1 pint sour milk, % cup molasses, 

1 pint corn meal, 2 tablespoons melted lard, 

1 pint wheat flour, 1 heaping teaspoon soda. 

Mix well and steam 3 hours. This is well worth trying. 

STEAMED BROWN BREAD 2. 

1 heaping teaspoon soda, 2 cups sour milk, 

3 cups corn meal, 1 cup warm water, 
1 cup flour or rye meal, 1 cup molasses, 

K teaspoon salt. 
Mix thoroughly together, and steam 3 hours, then dry it off 
in the oven. 

BROWN LOAF. 
3 cups corn meal, 1 cup sour milk, 

1 cup flour, X cup molasses, 

3 cups sweet milk, 1 teaspoon salt, 

1 teaspoon soda. 
Butter a deep mold, and steam 3 hours. This can be made 
the day before, then steamed for half an hour in the morning 
when wanted, which makes it as nice as if just made. Another 
good way is to mix, and set it in a very slow oven to remain all 
night where it will bake slowly. The fire must be turned off care- 
fully for the night, so that the oven will not get hot, but do not 



BREAD. 27 

let it go out entirely. The loaf will be nicely baked for break- 
fast. Be sure to remove from the oven, when you build up a hot 
fire in the morning. 

BROWN BREAD. 

2 cups corn meal, 2}{ cups sour milk, 

1 cup graham flour, 1 heaping teaspoon soda, 
% cup molasses, 1 teaspoon salt. 

Steam 3 hours, and brown half an hour in the oven. 

CORN BREAD. 
7 pints corn meal, 1 pint molasses, 

3 pints rye flour, 2 teaspoons soda, 
Skimmed milk, 2 teaspoons salt. 

Let this mixture be stiff enough to drop compactly from the 
spoon. Dust rye flour over the top of the loaves and pat smooth. 
Bake about 4 hours in a slow oven. 

BREAD WITH MUSH. 

2 quarts mush, 1 coffee cup molasses, 

2 quarts flour, 1 teaspoon salt, 

1 quart sponge, 1 teaspoon soda. 

"Pour hot corn meal mush, made as for eating, over the flour, 
wheat or graham ; whe cool, add sponge, molasses, salt and 
soda. Mix well together, add flour if necessary ; knead thor- 
oughly, make into small loaves, let rise and bake in a moderate 
oven. When done, rub over with butter, place on the side, wrap 
in a cloth, and when cold put in a jar or box. This recipe makes 
three good-sized loaves and keeps moist longer than all-graham 
bread. 

"ENTIRE WHEAT" FLOUR BREAD. 

Add 1 tablespoon sugar to 3 cups bread sponge and stir in 
"entire wheat" flour, graham can be used if desired, until the 
dough is sufficiently stiff to put into a well-buttered pan. Let 
rise and bake 1 hour. This is a nice, easy recipe, and makes one 
loaf. 

TENNESSEE EGG BREAD. 

3 cups buttermilk, 1 teaspoon soda, 

2 cups corn meal, 1 teaspoon salt, 
1 tablespoon lard, 1 egg. 

Bake brown and quickly. 



28 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

RAISED BROWN BREAD 1. 

2 cups corn meal, 1 cup molasses, 

1 cup rye meal, K cup yeast,. 

2 cups sweet milk, 1 teaspoon salt, 

X teaspoon soda. 
Dissolve the soda in the milk, and stir in the rest of the ingre- 
dients. This should be sufficiently risen to stir down, put into a 
pan r rise again for an hour, and bake at 6 o'clock, if mixed at 
noon. Let the heat of the oven be slow but steady, and allow the 
bread to stay in all night. Prepare in the morning if desired for 
the evening meal. This bread is nice if steamed three or four 
hours. 

RAISED RROWN BREAD 2. 

1 quart corn meal, 1 teaspoon salt, 

1 cup yeast, 1 teaspoon soda, 

2 tablespoons lard, Wheat flour. 

Pour enough boiling water over the meal to moisten well. 
When cool, add yeast, and let rise over night. In the morning 
add the melted lard, soda, salt, and enough flour to knead. It 
must not be too stiff. Let rise until quite light, make into loaves 
and rise again. Bake 1£ hours in a slow oven. 

QUICK BROWN BREAD. 

1)4. pints meal, 3 teaspoons baking powder, 

1% pints flour, 1 teaspoon salt, 

1 tablespoon lard. 
Make a medium batter with warm water and bake. 

RYE BREAD. 

Scald 3 or 4 quarts of rye flour with boiling water, stirring 
constantly. The batter should be thick enough for the spoon 
to stand upright. When it is cool, add yeast and a cup of 
molasses, stir it well and let it rise over night. In the morning, 
add wheat flour, knead it and let it rise ; knead it down once, let 
it rise again, and knead it into loaves. When it is light, put it 
into the oven and watch it carefully, for it burns much more 
easily than white bread. It never rises so light as white bread, 
so do not let it stand too long or it will be sour. 



BREAD. 29 

GRAHAM BREAD 1. 

1 pint graham flour, 1 pint bread sponge, 

1 pint white flour, 1 teaspoon salt, 

Warm water to mix. 
Mix soft, put in deep round tins, well buttered, and when light, 
bake slowly. 

GRAHAM BREAD 2. 

1 cup molasses, 1 teaspoon salt, 

1 cup yeast, 1 quart warm water. 

Stir in enough graham flour to make a soft dough ; pour it into 
well-greased pans, let rise 1 hour, then steam 1 hour, after which 
put into the oven and bake half an hour. This will make two 
medium-sized loaves. 

GRAHAM BREAD. 

1 quart warm water, X cup yeast, 

% cup brown sugar, 1 teaspoon salt. 

Thicken the water with unbolted flour to a thin batter; add 
sugar, salt and yeast, and stir in more flour until quite stiff. In 
the morning add a small teaspoon soda and flour enough to make 
the batter stiff as can be stirred with a spoon ; put it into pans 
and let rise again ; then bake in even oven, not too hot at first ; 
keep warm while rising ; smooth over the loaves with a spoon or 
knife dipped in water. 

QUICK GRAHAM BREAD. 

3 cups sour milk, X A cup molasses, 

2 teaspoons soda, 1 teaspoon salt. 
Dissolve the soda in a little hot water before stirring into the 

milk, add molasses, salt, and as much graham flour as can be 
stirred in with a spoon ; pour in well-greased pan, put in oven as 
soon as mixed, and bake 2 hours. 

BUTTERMILK GRAHAM BREAD. 

1 pint yeast, 2 teaspoons salt, 

2 quarts sweet buttermilk. 
Scald the buttermilk, sweet milk or water can be used if neces- 
sary, let cool, add salt, homemade yeast, and make the sponge 
with white flour. When risen, mix with graham flour, knead, let 
rise, knead down, let rise again, and knead into separate loaves. 
When risen to double its size, it is ready for the oven. Let it 



30 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

bake 45 minutes. [Many consider bread nicer with less kneading. 
—Ed.] 

rye bread. 

1 pint corn meal, 1 cup yeast, 

1 quart warm water. 

Thicken the water with rye flour and add yeast. Scald the corn 

meal and when cool stir into the sponge, adding more rye flour 

until thick enough to knead. Knead but little, let rise, mould 

into small loaves, let rise and bake. Wheat sponge may be used 

instead of rye. 

RYE BREAD. 

Make sponge as for wheat bread, let rise over night, then mix 
it up with the rye flour (not so stiff as wheat bread), and bake. 

RYE AND INDIAN BREAD. 

1 quart rye meal, % cup molasses, 

2 quarts Indian meal, 1 teaspoon soda, 
1 cup yeast, 2 teaspoons salt. 

Scald the meal by pouring just enough boiling water over it to 
wet it, stirring constantly, do not make a batter, then add mo- 
lasses, soda, salt and yeast. Make as stiff as can be stirred with 
a spoon, mixing with warm water, and let rise all night ; then put 
in a large pan, smooth the top with the hand dipped in cold 
water, let it stand a short time, and bake 5 or 6 hours. If put in 
the oven late in the day, let it remain all night. Graham flour 
may be used instead of rye meal. 

BREAKFAST AND TEA CAKES. 

The "civilized man cannot live without cooks" and the wise, 
intelligent cook finds her opportunity in such preparation for the 
morning meal as shall conduce to the best results during the day ; 
the food should be as healthful and appetizing, as the table dainty 
and inviting in its appointments. Thought and care, waiting on 
knowledge, provide for these, though the purse be low and the 
materials few and coarse. A wide latitude is given in the oppor- 
tunity of selection, from mush to waffles, biscuits to johnnycakes, 
rolls to crullers, gems to pancakes, but there is only one healthful 
way of preparation, although these articles vary in their respective 
ability to nourish the body. Raised biscuit, rolls and muffins, 



BISCUITS. 31 

being small, need to rise very light before baking, as the heat acts 
immediately upon them, and prevents but little further expansion 
from the confined gas. They require a hotter oven than is needed 
for bread, but not so hot as for soda or baking powder biscuit. 
Full directions are given in most of the recipes, but it will be help- 
ful to bear these general ones in mind. 

Handle soda and baking powder biscuit as little and as rapidly 
as possible. "With sour milk use soda, with sweet milk baking 
powder, or soda and cream of tartar. For one quart of flour take 
three teaspoons baking powder, or one of soda to two of cream of 
tartar. Buy the pure bi-carbonate of soda and cream of tartar 
from a reliable drug store, and use the best baking powder. 
There are many powders on the market, but avoid those known to 
have alum, ammonia or such deleterious substances in their compo- 
sition. Though a little longer time is required when using soda 
and cream of tartar than baking powder, they certainly seem more 
in accordance with health. Soda, or raised biscuit, rolls, bread 
and cake, when stale, can be freshened by plunging them into cold 
water and putting into a hot oven for ten or fifteen minutes. 
They should be used immediate^, (rem pans, muffin rings, pop- 
over cups and waffle irons should be greased and heated very hot 
before using. 

The genuine English griddle muffin is never considered cooked 
until it has been split and toasted. A very delicious breakfast 
dish is the yeast muffin, baked in the oven and served imme- 
diately. ' This is the New England method. 

RAISED BISCUITS — 1. 

1 pint hot milk, 1 tablespoon butter, 

1 quart flour, 1 saltspoon salt, 

1 cup yeast, 1 egg. 

Dissolve butter in the milk ; when lukewarm stir in the beaten 
egg, salt, yeast and flour. Work the dough until smooth. If 
winter, set in a warm place ; if summer, in a cool one to rise. In 
the morning work softly and roll out one-half inch and cut into 
biscuit and set to rise for 30 minutes, when they will be ready to 
bake. These are delicious. 



32 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 
RAISED BISCUITS 2. 

1 tablespoon butter, 1 tablespoon sugar, 

1 tablespoon lard, 1 egg, 

2 cups bread sponge. 
Melt butter and lard, stirring them together with the sugar and 
the well-beaten egg into the sponge. Mix into a soft dough. 
Knead into a loaf and set to rise in a buttered bowl. When light, 
roll out to the thickness of 1 inch, cut out with a biscuit cutter, 
put in shallow pans to rise, and bake in a quick oven. 

BUTTER BISCUITS. 

2 cups flour, )4 cup yeast, 
1% cups milk, 1 teaspoon salt, 
1 cup butter, 2 eggs. 

Rub the butter into the flour, then add salt, milk, and yeast, 
stirring in enough to mould up after adding the well-beaten eggs. 
Place the dough where warm ; when risen, mould with the hand 
into small cakes, and put them on flat, buttered pans. Bake after 
rising one-half hour. 

BUTTERMILK BISCUITS. 

1 quart flour, 1 tablespoon lard, 

1 teaspoon salt, 1 teaspoon soda. 

Make a soft dough with sour buttermilk ; mould into small, 

round balls ; set closely together in a greased pan, bake one-half 

hour. 

CREAM BISCUITS 1. 

1 cup sour cream, y 2 teaspoon soda, 

Yz cup sugar, 1 saltspoon salt. 

Make into a soft dough hy adding flour to these ingredients ; 
roll thin, cut out and bake. 

CREAM BISCUITS 2. 

1 quart flour, 1 saltspoon salt, 

2 teaspoons baking powder. 
Sift flour, salt and baking powder together ; stir in sweet cream 
and milk in equal parts, to make a soft dough. Bake in a quick 
oven. These may be made with sour cream and milk with 1 tea- 
spoon soda, in place of the sweet cream and baking powder. To 
be eaten with butter and honey or maple syrup. 



BISCUITS. 33 

EGG BISCUITS 1. 

Make a dough as for baking powder biscuit but richer, and al- 
most the last thing, add the whites of 2 or 3 eggs beaten to a stiff 
froth. These are as light as a feather. 

EGG BISCUITS 2. 

1)4 pints milk, 1 teaspoon salt, 

1 pint flour, G eggs. 

Have the oven properly heated, and the cups or pans buttered 
and placed where they will be hot when needed. Sift the salt into 
the flour ; beat the eggs until light and foaming ; beat them into 
the flour; add milk. The beating must be continuous and equal, 
no pause being made from beginning until the batter is put into 
the buttered pans or cups. Put into the oven at once ; the door 
need not be opened for 10 minutes, and then only long enough to 
make sure that the heat is not quick enough to burn. Bake until 
they have risen high and are brown where the sides touch the cups. 
Serve hot. If taken from the oven before the sides are brown, 
they may fall. This quantity will fill a dozen cups, or make four 
little loaves. 

FEATHER BISCUITS. 

1)4 quarts flour, % cup butter, 

iyi pints warm milk, % cup sugar, 

2 eggs, % cup yeast. 

Rub together butter and sugar, add the well-beaten eggs and 
part of the flour, then the milk, the rest of the flour and the yeast. 
Mix well for 10 minutes. Let rise over night, and in the morning 
fill gem roll pans three-fourths full. At the end of 1 hour bake in 
a hot oven. 

GRAHAM BISCUITS 1. 

3 cups graham flour, 1 tablespoon sugar, 
1 cup white flour, 1 teaspoon salt, 

3 cups milk, 1 teaspoon soda, 

1 tablespoon butter, 2 teaspoons cream of tartar. 

Sift cream of tartar into the flour. After sifting the graham 
flour to make it light, put in salt and sugar, rub the lard lightly 
through the flour, add soda dissolved in a little of the milk, and, 
as rapidly as possible the rest of the milk; stir all together 
quickly, roll out lightly, cut into cakes at least one-half inch thick, 
and bake in a quick oven. 



34 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

GRAHAM BISCUITS 2. 

1 cup graham flour, 1 tablespoon sugar, 

% cup cold water, 1 tablespoon lard, 

y 2 cup white flour, 1 teaspoon salt, 

1 heaping teaspoon baking powder. 
Mix well with a spoon, adding lard and cold water last. Beat 
the batter 1 minute, put into muffin pans and bake. When done, 
put them on a plate and cover with a stone crock for 5 minutes. 
This is veiy important as it prevents their being hard and indi- 
gestible. 

GRAHAM FINGERS AND THUMBS. 
1 pound graham flour, 2 ounces lard, 

3 gills sweet milk, 2 ounces butter, 

1 teaspoon salt, 1 teaspoon soda, 

3 teaspoons cream of tartar. 
Sift salt, soda, cream of tartar and flour together ; work in the 
lard and butter until fine ; mix quickly with the milk ; roll the 
dough on a floured board, handling as little as possible. Let it be 
one-half inch thick. Cut one-half of this into strips 4 inches long 
by 1 inch wide. Have biscuit pans well greased ; put the strips 
into them so as not to touch each other. Bake in a quick oven 10 
or 15 minutes. Cut the rest of the dough into rings, double 
these, draw out a little and bake like the strips. Serve hot on the 
same plate. 

HIGH BISCUITS. 
1 small loaf dough, 1 heaping tablespoon butter, 

1 egg, 1 level tablespoon sugar. 

On baking days reserve the dough, and mix butter, sugar and 
egg into it by pulling it to pieces with the hands ; knead into a 
loaf, let rise, then, by rolling between the hands, make into balls 
the size of a small hen's egg, place in rows in very well-greased 
dripping pan ; when half full raise the end that is empty almost 
perpendicular, and shake gently until the balls slide compactly to- 
gether, then add more, and continue doing so until the pan is full ; 
rub over the top with melted butter, let rise until very light, and 
bake. 

HARD BISCUITS. 

2 pounds flour, 3 gills milk, 

X pound butter, 1 saltspoon salt. 



BISCUITS 35 

Cut up the butter and rub it in the flour, add the salt and milk, 
knead dough for one-half hour, cut cakes about as large as a small 
teacup, and one-half inch thick, prick with a fork, and bake in a 
moderate oven until they are a delicate brown. 

MARYLAND BISCUITS. 

1 quart flour, 1 tablespoon butter, 

1 teaspoon salt, 1 tablespoon lard. 

Work together lard, butter, salt, and flour ; use the hand to mix 
a rather stiff dough, and lay upon a floured board ; beat with the 
rolling pin, folding as often as it is flattened, until it blisters and 
cracks. This beating will occupy at least one-half hour. "When 
the dough is properly light, break off pieces as large as an egg, 
roll them round, prick the top with a fork, and bake on a buttered 
tin, in a moderate oven. 

POTATO BISCUITS. 
3 heaping pints flour, M cup butter, 

1 pint milk, % cup yeast, 

5 medium sized potatoes, 1 teaspoon salt, 

1 tablespoon white sugar. 

Boil and sift the potatoes, add salt, sugar, and work in the but- 
ter. Warm the milk,, add part of it and part of the flour. Stir in 
the yeast, then the rest of the milk and flour. Beat well or knead 
15 minutes. Cover closely, and let rise over night. Roll out in 
the morning, cut with a biscuit cutter, and make with the hands 
into long, narrow rolls, kneading as little as possible. Let rise 
\\ to 2 hours before baking. 

VIENNA BISCUITS. 

1 quart sweet milk, y 2 cup yeast, 

2 quarts flour, 1 teaspoon sugar, 
1 cup butter, 1 egg, 

1 teaspoon salt. 
Set at night, and in the morning add just enough flour to make 
a dough of the consistency of baking powder biscuit. Let rise, 
then roll out 1 inch in thickness, and let it rise again before 
baking. Scald milk before using. 

WATER BISCiriTS. 

Sift a sufficient quantity of flour for the number of the family ; 
add a good pinch of salt to it, and mix hard with cold water, 



36 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

adding a little at a time until all the flour is mixed in. Work well 
and cut in small pieces ; work them round and roll thin. They 
should be less than one-half inch thick and 3 inches in diameter. 
Bake quickly in a hot oven, and butter them while hot. 

BREAKFAST BISCUITS. 
1 quart sweet milk, 1 teaspoon salt, 

Yz cup melted butter, 4 teaspoons baking powder. 

Mix these ingredients with flour sufficient for a stiff batter. 
Drop from the spoon into buttered pans, and bake in a hot oven. 

BAKING POWDER BISCUITS. 

1 quart flour, 1 teaspoon salt, 

2 tablespoons lard, Milk, 

3 teaspoons baking powder. 
Let the oven be very hot and the pans greased before mixing 
dough. Sift salt and baking powder into the flour. Stir in milk 
sufficient to make a soft dough, knead quickly, roll out 1 inch thick 
and cut with biscuit cutter. Bake about 20 minutes. If cream 
is used in mixing, omit the lard. 

ABERNETHY BISCUITS. 

2 eggs, 2 tablespoons sugar, 
1 pint milk, 1 tablespoon salt, 

3 pints flour, 4 tablespoons lard, 

\% tablespoons baking powder, 2 tablespoons caraway seeds. 
Sift together flour, sugar, salt and powder. Rub in lard and 
add the remainder of the ingredients. Give a few vigorous kneads 
and roll out till one-fourth of an inch in thickness. Cut into bis- 
cuits and bake 15 minutes. Store when cold. 

BERLIN WREATHS. 

1 pound washed butter, J£ pound white sugar, 

2 pounds flour, 4 eggs, yolks, 

4 hard boiled eggs, yolks. 
Mix flour and sugar well together, then work in the butter and 
yolks of eggs. Cut the mixture into 6-inch "strips, which should 
be round and as thick as a finger. Lap the ends, dip the cakes 
into the beaten whites, then into coarse sugar, place on buttered 
tins and bake a light brown. They will keep a year and be just as 
good at last as at first. 

CHOCOLATE BISCUITS. 

Mix some powdered chocolate and powdered sugar into a paste 



BISCUITS. 



37 



with whites of eggs. Mould, and bake on paper in moderate oven. 

CREAM BISCUITS. 

6 ounces powdered sugar, 6 ounces flour, 

6 eggs. 

Beat yolks and whites separately. Add to the yolks the sugar 

and flour, then the whites and enough whipped cream to mix well. 

Pour into moulds and bake. 

DESSERT BISCUITS. 

y 2 pound powdered sugar, 6 eggs, yolks,- 

%, pound butter, 1 P ound flour > 

Flavor with ginger or lemon. 

Beat the butter to a cream, add flour, sugar, and flavoring by 

degrees; moisten the whole with the well-beaten yolk of eggs. 

Drop the mixture from the spoon upon a well-buttered paper, 2 or 

3 inches apart. Bake in a slow oven from 15 to 18 minutes. Let, 

the biscuits be a pale brown. Any flavoring can be used, and into 

part of the mixture currants can be stirred. This makes from 

three to four dozen cakes. 

ENGLISH BISCUITS. 
V/ 2 pints flour 3 tablespoons sugar, 

y 2 pint milk, 1 tablespoon lard, 

1 cup cornstarch, 1 tablespoon coriander seed, 

y 2 cup currants, 1 egg. 

Sift dry ingredients together ; rub in lard cold ; add eggs, milk, 
currants and seeds. Mix into dough soft enough to handle. Roll 
one-half inch thick. Cut out and bake 20 minutes. 

JASMINE BISCUITS. 

1 cup powdered sugar, 6 eggs, whites, 

Jasmine flowers. 
Beat up some freshly gathered flowers with the eggs and sugar. 
Make into small biscuits ; lay on paper, sprinkle with sugar, and 
bake in a moderate oven. 

LEMON PEEL BISCUITS. 

4 tablespoons flour, 4 eggs, 

X pound powdered sugar, Lemon peel. 

Mix thinly sliced lemon peel with flour, sugar and eggs. 
Spread on greased paper, sprinkle with sugar and bake. When 
done, remove from paper and cut into squares. 



38 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

LEMON BISCUITS. 

\% pounds flour, 1 ounce lemon peel, 

% pound powdered sugar, 4 eggs, 

6 ounces fresh butter, 2 dessert spoons lemon juice. 

Rub the flour into the butter, stir in the sugar and finety-ininced 
peel, add the eggs, well beaten, and the lemon juice. Beat to- 
gether well, drop from the spoon on a buttered tin, about two 
inches apart. Bake from 10 to 15 minutes. They should be a 
pale brown color. 

LISBON BISCUITS. 

4 eggs, 5 tablespoons flour, 

1 tablespoon powdered sugar. 

Beat eggs, flour and sugar together. Pour the batter over a 

sheet of paper previously sprinkled with sugar, and sprinkle more 

on top. Bake in a moderate oven. 

ICED BISCUITS. 
l / 2 pound powdered sugar, Yz cup sweet milk, 

V 2 scant pound flour, 12 eggs, yolks, 

1 teaspoon baking powder. 

Add sugar to the well-beaten eggs, with the milk ; sift the flour 
and baking powder into the mixture, flavoring to taste. Bake in 
biscuit pans. If rightly made it will be very light. Do not bake 
too fast, and have the oven about as for sponge cake. When 
cold, cut into slices 3 inches long and 1 inch wide. Ice the sides, 
ends and top with white, pink and chocolate icing. Dry in oven, 
and then, if desired, the bottom may be iced. Build in square 
blocks and place on table. Serve a plate each of the white, pink, 
and the brown, or they may be mixed in building. 
nun's biscuits. 

2 pounds powdered sugar, Citron, 

% pound flour, 4 lemons, 

12 eggs, 16 ounces almonds. 

To the beaten whites of the eggs add the blanched and powdered 
almonds. Beat the sugar and flour with the yolks and mix all to- 
gether. Add the grated rind of the. lemons and a little sliced 
citron. Make the whole into paste, and bake in buttered patty 
pans. Fill them half full. When they begin to brown, turn, 
sprinkle with sugar and brown again. 



BISCUITS 39 

queen's biscuits. 
IK pounds flour, 24 eggs, whites, 

\% pounds powdered sugar, 18 eggs, yolks, 

Crushed coriander seed. 

Make a soft paste of the flour, sugar, and eggs, adding a little 
coriander seed, also a little yeast if desired. Bake on paper in a 
moderate oven till they begin to brown. 

ROCK BISCUITS. 
1 pound powdered sugar, 6 eggs, 

% pound flour, Currants. 

Beat the eggs till very light, add the sugar, then the flour grad- 
ually, and finally the currants. Mix well together, put the dough 
on the tins with a fork, making it look as rough as possible. Bake 
in a moderate oven from 20 minutes to half an hour. When cool, 
store them away in a dry place. 

SAVOY BISCUITS. 

1 pound flour, 3 tablespoons water, 

1 pound powdered sugar, 12 eggs. 

Beat the eggs with the water, adding gradually the sugar. 
When it becomes thick, stir in the flour. Mould into long cakes 
and bake slowly. 

SUGAR BISCUITS. 
1)4 pints flour, 1 tablespoon lard, 

X pint milk, 1 teaspoon salt, 

1 cup sugar, 2 eggs, 

2 teaspoons baking powder. 
Mix into smooth batter and drop into tins. Bake in a hot oven 
8 or 10 minutes. 

MAPLE SUGAR BISCUITS. 

1 quart flour, 1 pint milk, 

2 tablespoons butter, 1 cup maple sugar, 

3 teaspoons baking powder or cream of tartar and soda. 

Whatever is used to lighten the biscuit, whether soda and cream 
of tartar or baking powder, sift it through the sieve with the flour. 
Rub the butter through the flour, so thoroughly that some portion 
of the butter touches every portion of the flour. The success of 
any baking powder or of a soda biscuit depends upon care at this 
point. Stir in rich, new milk to make a soft dough. At this 
period add the maple sugar cut into irregular dice about the size 



40 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

of peas. Dredge a board; turn out the dough. Dredge flour 
over it and roll as quickly as possible till about an inch thick. Cut 
out the biscuit with a small tumbler or biscuit cutter, not over 2 
inches in diameter. They will rise to the proper size. Bake 15 
minutes in a very hot oven. Serve hot. These maple sugar bis- 
cuits are a delightful change. 

PARKER HOUSE ROLLS. 

% quarts flour, % tablespoon butter, 

1 pint cold boiled milk, % tablespoon lard, 

K cup yeast, % cup sugar, 

1 teaspoon salt, 1 egg. 

If wanted for supper, rub the flour and butter together, boil the 
milk, and cool it the night before. Make a well in the flour, pour 
into it the milk, to which has been added the sugar, salt, well- 
beaten egg, and yeast, but do not stir. Let stand over night. In 
the morning stir, knead, and let rise till near tea time. When 
very light, roll out and cut with a biscuit cutter; put a little 
melted butter on half the biscuit, and fold nearly over on the 
other half. Place in the pan about 3 inches apart. Let rise and 
bake. 

FRENCH ROLLS. 

6 potatoes, X A cup yeast, 

1 teaspoon salt, K cup lard, 

2 quarts water. 
Peel potatoes, boil in the water, press and drain potatoes and 
water through a colander ; when cool enough not to scald, add 
flour to make a thick batter, beat well, and adc} } r east. Make this 
sponge early in the morning, and when light turn into a breadpan, 
add salt, lard, and flour enough for a soft dough ; mix and let rise 
in a warm, even temperature ; when risen, knead down and place 
again to rise, repeating this pi'ocess 5 or 6 times ; cut in small 
pieces and mould in rolls about 1 inch thick by 5 long ; roll in 
melted butter or sweet lard, and place in well-greased baking pans ; 
nine inches long by five wide and two and one-half deep, makes a 
convenient pan, which holds fifteen of these rolls ; if twice the 
width, put in 2 rows ; press the rolls closely together, so that they 
will only be about half an inch wide. Let rise a short time and 
bake 20 minutes in a hot oven ; if the top browns too rapidly, 



ROLLS. 41 

cover with paper. These rolls, if properly made, are very white, 
light and tender. 

Or, make rolls larger, and just before putting them in the oven, 
cut deeply across each one with a sharp knife. This will make 
the cleft roll, so famous among French cooks. 

ITALIAN ROLLS. 

Work one-fourth pound butter into 1 pound of bread dough 
when it has risen read}" for the oven, roll it out half an inch thick ; 
cut in strips 1 inch wide by 7 or 8 inches long. Sift fine corn 
meal over them. Place on a sheet of greased tin, so they will not 
touch each other, and when light, about one hour, bake 10 min- 
utes in a quick oven. 

BREAKFAST ROLLS 1. 

Mix the dough in the evening, according to directions in the 
recipe for Bread Raised Once ; add a tablespoon of butter, and set 
where it will be a little warm until morning ; cut off pieces, and 
carefully shape them into rolls of the desired size by rolling them 
between the hands, but do not knead them ; dip the sides of each 
into drawn butter when they are shaped, and place them in the 
pan ; the butter prevents their sticking together when baked, and 
they will be smooth and perfect when separated. Rub them over 
the top with drawn butter, and dust with a little fine salt. Set in 
a warm place, and they will quickly rise for baking. These are 
delicious. 

BREAKFAST ROLLS 2. 

1 cup sweet milk, 2 eggs, whites, 

% cup butter, 1 teaspoon salt, 

% cup yeast, 2 tablespoons sugar, 

Flour for thick batter. 
Let rise over night, adding the eggs, beaten to a foam, and the 
sugar in the morning. Mould quickly, and let rise a little and 
bake. Very nice. 

LONG BREAKFAST ROLLS. 

3X cups sweet milk, )4 cup lard, 

1 cup yeast, % cup butter, 

1 egg. 

Take flour enough to make into dough ; let rise over night. In 

the morning add the beaten egg, knead thoroughly, and let rise 



42 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

again. With the hands make into balls as large as an egg ; then 
roll between the hands to make long rolls, abont three inches, 
place close together in even rows in the pans. Let rise until light, 
and bake delicatel}-. 

DINNER ROLLS. 

Make dough as directed in recipe for Long Breakfast Rolls, 
make into balls as large as a medium-sized egg, place on a well- 
floured board, flour a small rolling-pin, three-fourths inch in 
diameter, press down so as nearly to divide each ball of dough in 
the center, place in pans without touching each other, grease the 
space made by the rolling-pin with melted butter, let rise until 
light, and bake. These rolls are so small and bake so quickly, 
that the}- have the delicious sweet taste of the wheat. Some grease 
the hands with butter while making the rolls. Bread dough, by 
adding the other ingredients, may be used for these rolls. 

TEA ROLLS. 
1 pint sweet milk, J£ cup yeast, 

1 pint warm water, y z cup butter, 

1 teaspoon salt, y^ cup sugar. 

In the morning make sponge with milk, water, yeast and flour. 
When light and foamy, add sugar, butter, salt, and flour enough 
to knead the dough without sticking to the board. Let rise once, 
then with the hands mould into oblong rolls, about 4 inches long. 
Grease the hands when doing this. Place the rolls in greased tins, 
not quite touching each other. When light, or about twice their 
first size, put in a hot oven to bake. They should be done in 
thirty minutes. When done, place right side up on a clean towel, 
and then take a tablespoon nearly half full of white sugar, fill up 
with water, and with the finger moisten the tops of all the rolls. 

COFFEE ROLLS. 1. 

Work into a quart of bread dough a rounded tablespoon of but- 
ter, and a half cup of white sugar; add some dried currants, 
di'edge with flour and sugar, make into small rolls, dip into melted 
butter, place in tins, let rise a short time, and bake. 

COFFEE ROLLS — 2. 

12 cups flour, 1 cup yeast, 

3 cups warm milk, % cup butter, 

1 cup white sugar, % cup lard, 

1 grated nutmeg, 3 eggs. 



ROLLS. 43 

Mix all together and let rise over night. If well risen in the 
morning, knead and set in a cool place until 3 p. M. , then shape 
into long rolls and let them rise nearly 2 hours. Bake half an 
hour in a moderate oven. When done, glaze with a little milk and 
brown sugar, and set back in the oven 2 minutes. 

CINNAMON ROLLS 1. 

Mix some shortening, an egg and a little sugar into a piece 
of light bread dough ; roll out to one-fourth inch thickness, 
spread with butter, and sprinkle with sugar and cinnamon ; roll 
up, and slice off with a sharp knife like jelly roll. Place in pans 
like biscuit, let rise, and when light, put a lump of butter, a little 
sugar and cinnamon on each one and bake. 

CINNAMON ROLLS — 2. 

Pie crust, Cinnamon, 

Sugar. 

Roll out the pie crust, sprinkle cinnamon and a little sugar over 

it ; cut in narrow strips, roll up tight, put in a well-buttered pan, 

brown nicely, and serve. 

GRAHAM ROLLS. 

1 quart graham flour, 1 teaspoon salt. 

1 pint buttermilk, 1 tablespoon butter, 

1 teaspoon soda. 

Sift the soda into the flour; stir salt, melted butter and flour 

into the buttermilk. Drop into roll pans and bake half an hour. 

EXCELLENT ROLLS. 

1 pint new milk, J£ cup butter, 

Yz cup yeast, 1 teaspoon salt, 

1 tablespoon sugar, 2 eggs, whites. 

Scald the new milk, adding to it when cool, sugar, yeast, and 
flour enough to make a stiff battel*. Let rise over night, and in 
the morning add butter, salt, and the beaten whites of eggs. Mix, 
knead well and let rise, then knead again and roll out until three- 
fourths inch in thickness. Cut with a biscuit cutter, spread 
butter on one half and roll the other half over it. Let rise until 
very light, then bake. 

CRESCENTS OR VIENNA ROLLS. 

Use recipe for Vienna Bread No. 2, adding 1 tablespoon butter. 
When very light, roll the dough until one-eighth inch thick; 



44 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

cut into pieces 5 inches square, and then into triangles. Hold the 
apex of the triangle in the right hand, roll the edge next the left 
hand over and over toward the right, stretch the point and bring 
it over and under the roll. Bend the ends of the roll around like 
a horseshoe, being careful to keep in the folding. 

WINTER ROLLS. 

3 quarts flour, 1 cup yeast, 
1 quart buttermilk, 1 cup lard, 

1 quart cold water, Salt. 

Put the flour into a jar, scald the buttermilk, add lard and pour 
all over the flour, beating it up well ; add water and yeast ; set in 
a warm place to rise over night. In the morning add salt, and 
flour enough to make a moderately stiff dough; when risen, 
knead and set to rise again. This time knead down and place in 
a large stone crock or bowl, covered tightly to prevent the surface 
from drying, and set away in a cool place. When needed, turn 
out on a bread board, take off a piece as large as you wished, roll 
out to the thickness of ordinary soda biscuit, cut, and put in the 
oven to bake immediately. Set the dough away as before ; it will 
keep a week in winter, and is very convenient for hot breakfast 
rolls. 

POCKET BOOKS. 

1 quart new milk, 1 cup yeast, 

4 tablespoons sugar, % cup lard, 

2 eggs, \& cup butter, 

)4 teaspoon salt. 

Warm the milk, add butter, lard, sugar, and the well-beaten 
eggs ; stir in flour to make a moderately stiff sponge, add the 
yeast, and set in a warm place to rise, which will take three or 
four hours ; then mix in flour to make a soft dough and let rise 
again. When well risen, dissolve a little soda in a spoonful of 
milk, work it into the dough and roll into sheets one-half inch in 
thickness ; spread with thin la} r er of butter, cut into squares, and 
fold over, pocketbook shape ; put on tins or in pans to rise for a 
little while, when they will be fit for the oven. In summer the 
sponge can be made up in the morning, and rise in time to make 
for tea. In cool weather it is best to set it over night. 



RUSK. 45 

RUSKS AND BUNS. 

Rusk is not the sweet hot biscuit so often called by this name in 
New England — that is properly a bun. A genuine rusk is a 
slightly sweet dried bread, which may be eaten as it is, crisp and 
delicious ; or it may be soaked in ice-cold milk, with an accom- 
paniment of berries and the richest and best of cream cheese. It 
is an ideal summer dish, served with cream and berries. There 
are two kinds of rusk, that which is sweet and that which is made 
without sweetening. 

GENUINE RUSK. 

1 quart flour, Vz cup butter, 

1 cup scalded milk, X A cup yeast, 

1 teaspoon salt, 3 eggs. 

Rub the butter into the flour, add the milk, beating it into the 
flour. It should form as thick a batter as can be well stirred. 
Add the well-beaten eggs, stirring them in one by one while the 
mixture is lukewarm, then the salt, and finally the yeast. Beat 
the batter well. Let it rise 1 hours. Then turn out on a board 
dusted with flour. Dredge the risen mass with flour and knead 
until it ceases to cling to the hand. It will require fifteen or 
twenty minutes' vigorous kneading. Let rise again, then roll out 
about an inch in thickness, and cut into small, round biscuit 
shapes. Place these on floured tins and let rise three-fourths of 
an hour before putting them in the oven. They should be well 
covered in the biscuit tins. Bake the rusks from 15 to 20 min- 
utes in a quick oven. Split while still warm and put into a slow 
oven or into the heating closet of the range till perfectly crisp and 
dry through and through. They may then be put in a loose bag 
and hung up in a dry place to gain perfection. In two weeks 
they will be ready to use, though they will be delicious in three 
days. To make a sweet rusk add at least 1 cup of sugar to the 
above rule. These rusks should be evenly and regularly browned 
throughout. 

rusk — 1. 

2 cups raised dough, Yz cup butter, 
1 cup sugar, 2 eggs, 

Cinnamon. 
Rub the butter and sugar together, beating in the eggs, and add- 



46 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

ing flour to make a stiff dough. Set to rise, and when light, 
mould into high biscuit and let rise again ; sift sugar and cinna- 
mon over the top, and place in oven. 

rusk — 2. 
1 pint milk, 1 cup butter, 

3 eggs, 1 cup sugar, 

1 large cup potato yeast. 
Use flour to make a thick sponge ; in the morning stir down, let 
rise, and stir down again ; when it rises make into a loaf, and let 
rise again ; then roll out like soda biscuit, cut and put in pans, 
and, when light, bake carefully ; or make into rather high and nar- 
row biscuit, let rise again, rub the tops with a little sugar and 
water, then sprinkle over them dry sugar. Bake 20 minutes. 

CREAM RUSK. 

1 pint warm water, 1 cup sugar, 

1 cup rich cream* 1 cup yeast, 

Flour for stiff batter. 

Let rise over night and work down several times. When ready 
to bake, roll and cut in small cakes, put in a buttered pan, let 
rise and bake. Sprinkle with sugar when taken from the oven. 

LEBANON RUSK. 

1 cup potatoes, 1 cup yeast, 

1 cup sugar, 3 eggs, 

X cup butter and lard. 

Mash the potatoes, add the sugar, homemade yeast, and eggs ; 

mix together, let rise, and add the butter, lard, and flour enough to 

make a soft dough ; when risen again, mould into small cakes, and 

let them rise before baking. If wanted for tea, set about 9 A. M. 

BUNS. 
1 cup milk, Yz cup yeast, 

1 cup sugar, 1 egg, 

y z cup butter, Currants, 

Cinnamon. 
Rub the butter and sugar together, add egg, milk and yeast, 
flavor with cinnamon ; stir in flour to make a soft dough. Let 
rise till very light, then mould into biscuit with a few currants. 
Let rise a second time in pan ; bake, and, when nearly done, 
glaze with a little molasses and milk. Use the same cup, no mat- 
ter about the size, for each measure. 



BUNS. 47 

CINNAMON BUNS. 

1 quart milk, Yi cup butter, 

Yz cup sugar, y z teaspoon salt, 

Yz cup yeast, 1 egg, 

Cinnamon. 
Scald the milk to a curd. Make a very soft batter taking the 
whey and mixing it with the butter and sugar, egg, salt and flour. 
Milk can be used instead of whey if desired. When light add 
flour enough to make a soft dough. Let rise again, roll out 1 
inch in thickness, spread with butter, sprinkle on cinnamon and 
sugar. Roll together, and cut from the end, with a very sharp 
knife, slices 1 inch thick and lay flat on tins. Sprinkle over them 
some of the cinnamon and sugar. When light, bake in a quick 
oven. Very nice. 

HOT CROSS BUNS. 

2 pounds flour, 1 pound currants, 
% pound sugar, % pint warm milk, 
yi pound butter, % cup yeast, 

% teaspoon salt, 1 teaspoon mixed spice. 

Mix the flour, sugar, spice and currants; make a well in the 
flour, pour in the yeast and milk. Make a thin batter with the 
surrounding flour and milk ; cover the pan and set it to rise. Then 
add the melted butter and enough milk to make a soft paste of all 
the flour. Dust with flour, cover and let rise for half an hour. 
Shape the dough into buns, place in rows on pans to rise for half 
an hour. Stamp with a cross mould, this may be done roughly 
with the back of a knife, and bake 20 minutes in a quick oven. 
This makes two dozen buns. 

NEW ENGLAND BUNS. 
1>2 quarts flour, X cup butter, 

1 pint milk, 1 teaspoon cinnamon, 

% cupx;urrants, « 1 teaspoon lemon juice, 

% cup yeast, 2 eggs, 

3 tablespoons white sugar. 
Rub the butter and 2 tablespoons of sugar together, stirring in 
the well-beaten eggs. Sift in 1 pint of flour, measure the flour be- 
fore sifting, add the milk, and sift in the rest of the flour. After 
adding the yeast, beat well for 10 minutes. Mix in the evening, 
cover well, and let rise all night. In the morning, add 1 table- 



48 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

spoon of sugar, stir well, and let rise till afternoon. Then rub 
the currants through well-floured hands, and stir into the dough. 
Add cinnamon and lemon juice if the latter is desired. Flour 
thoroughly the rolling-pin and board and roll out over half an inch 
thick and cut with a biscuit cutter. This dough is soft, but do 
not use more flour, though hard to roll. Round up the buns when 
putting them in the pans, and do not let them touch each other. 
Let rise 2 hours. Bake a light brown, and when done brush the 
top of each with the white of an egg into which a little sugar 
has been beaten. They will be ready for tea, This recipe makes 
thirty buns. 

NOBBY BUNS. 

2 pounds flour, 4 teaspoons cinnamon, 

1 pound butter, 6 eggs, 

1% pounds sugar. 
Rub the butter to a cream, and work it into the flour and cin- 
namon. Beat sugar and eggs together, and mix all as quickly as 
possible. Have flat sheets of tin ready, and drop on the mixture 
in rough heaps from the spoon. Bake in a rather quick oven to a 
nice brown. 

QUICK BUNS. 

2 cups bread sponge, % cup sugar, 

% cup currants or raisins, 1 teaspoon cinnamon, 

X cup butter and lard, 1 egg. 

Rub the butter and sugar together, and add the well-beaten egg, 
mixing well. Stir in the cinnamon and fruit, with flour to knead 
into a soft loaf. Let rise well, then roll out 1 inch thick, and cut 
with a biscuit cutter, set to rise, and bake in a quick oven. Brush 
the top with the white of egg and sugar beaten together. 

SPANISH BUNS. 

1 pound flour, M cup yeast, 

% pound sugar, 1 teaspoon cinnamon, 

)4 pound butter, K teaspoon nutmeg, 

% pint milk, 4 eggs, 

2 tablespoons rose-water. 
Cut up the butter and rub it well with the flour, add the sugar, 
beat the eggs very light, and stir in lastly the spices and rose- 
water, with milk enough to form a very thick batter, then add the 
yeast. The next morning stir it again and let it rise the second 



BANNOCK. 49 

time. Butter pans and fill them three-fourths full. When done 
and cold sift sugar over, and with a sharp knife cut them in 
squares. 

CONVENIENT BATTER. 
2 cups milk, 1 tablespoon melted butter, 

2 cups flour, 2 teaspoons baking powder, 

2 eggs, 1 saltspoon salt. 

Beat whites and }*olks separately and stir the yolks into the 
milk, add salt, melted butter and the flour into which the baking 
powder has been sifted, lastly the whites. This batter can be 
used for muffins in rings, baked on a griddle, or in an oven, or 
baked in one shallow pan as a breakfast cake, or as a pudding if 
served with sauce, or made a little thinner and poured into a drip- 
ping pan with roast beef. It is then called Yorkshire pudding. 

bannock — 1. 
1 pint corn meal, 1 egg, 

1 tablespoon cream, Salt, 

Boiling water. 
Pour over the meal enough water to moisten it. Let it stand a 
few minutes ; add salt, the beaten egg, sweet cream or 1 table- 
spoon butter. Make into balls and fry in hot lard. Serve hot. 

bannock — 2. 

1 quart corn meal, 1 teaspoon salt, 

Boiling water. 

Scald the meal and salt with sufficient boiling water to make a 

batter thick enough to be easily stirred. Pour into a baking pan 

to the thickness of 1 inch, and smooth with a wet spoon. Let the 

oven be very hot, for the quicker this bakes the nicer it is. 

GRAHAM BANNOCK. 

2 cups graham flour, 1 teaspoon lard, 

1 cup wheat flour, 1 teaspoon butter, 

\% cups milk, 1 teaspoon salt, 

1 tablespoon brown sugar, 2 heaping teaspoons baking powder. 
Sift the sugar, salt and graham flour very thoroughly, and add 
baking powder well mixed with the flour ; rub in the shortening, 
adding the milk gradualby ; stir well but quickly. Flour rolling- 
pin and board and roll dough thin enough to cover two medium- 
sized shallow pans. Bake a light brown in a hot oven. When 
done cut in squares. 



50 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

SCOTCH CURRANT BANNOCK. 

2 pounds raisins, 1 heaping cup lard and butter, 

2 pounds currants, 1 cup yeast, 

1 quart flour, 1 tablespoon caraway seed, 

1 cup sugar, 1 teaspoon salt, 

1 tablespoon finely cut orange peel. 

Clean seedless raisins and currants and leave in a colander over 
night to drain. Set a sponge in the evening as for two loaves of 
bread, using 1 cup yeast. In the morning when the sponge is 
very light, sift the flour into a large pan, and rub the shortening 
into it. Mix in sugar, caraway seed and orange peel, then add 
raisins and currants which must be perfectly dry. Stir all to- 
gether thoroughly and knead like bread, adding more flour if nec- 
essary, and put back in the pan to rise. When light knead down 
and put into a large, round baking pan. After rising bake very 
carefully for 2 hours at least, and in some cases longer as ovens 
differ. If the top bakes too rapidly cover with a pie tin. The 
butter bannock for which Selkirk is noted is made by omitting the 
raisins, currants and orange peel. 

BLUEBERRY CAKES. 

2 cups blueberries, 1 egg, 

3 cups flour, 1 tablespoon sugar, 
1)4 cups milk, 1 tablespoon butter, 

1 teaspoon salt, 3 teaspoons baking powder. 

Mix the salt, sugar, baking powder and flour together. Stir in 
milk and melted butter, then the well-beaten egg, and last the blue- 
berries. Bake in cups or gem pans. 

BREAKFAST CAKE 1. 

1 quart flour, 1 tablespoon each lard and butter, 

1/4 cups milk, 1 teaspoon salt. 

Rub the shortening and salt through the flour, with the hands ; 
beat the eggs light, and add to them 1£ cups of milk ; stir this 
into the flour. If not enough to make a stiff dough, add a little 
more milk ; knead well with the hands 1 minutes, roll into cakes 
about half an inch thick and as large around as a pie plate ; put 
on well-buttered pie plates, and bake in a quick oven. At table 
do not cut these cakes, but break them. 



COFFEE CAKE. 51 

BREAKFAST CAKES 2. 

1 scant quart flour, 2 eggs, 

1 cup milk, 2 tablespoons sugar, 

2 teaspoons baking powder, 2 tablespoons butter. 
Mix and bake 20 minutes in a quick oven. 

CINNAMON CAKE. 

When }^east bread is ready to knead from the sponge, knead and 
roll out three-fourths of an inch thick, put thin slices of butter on 
the top, sprinkle with cinnamon, and then with sugar; let rise 
well and bake. 

GERMAN COFFEE CAKE 1. 

2 pints fresh milk, %, cup yeast, 

3 pints flour, 2 eggs, 

1 cup sugar, y 2 nutmeg, 

1 small cup butter and lard, ^ teaspoon salt. 

In the evening make the sponge of warm milk, }^east and flour. 
Set to rise in a warm place. In the morning add shortening, salt, 
sugar, eggs, nutmeg, and flour sufficient to knead as bread ; have 
dough as soft as convenient for handling. Knead well for 15 
minutes and set in warm place to rise. When light roll it out in 
sheets about 1 inch thick, let rise to double the thickness. Spread 
the top with rich, sweet cream, and sprinkle with sugar and 
ground cinnamon. It should bake from one-half to three-fourths 
of an hour. If the top browns before it is done, lay a buttered 
white paper over it. Raisins may be added if desired. This 
recipe has proved valuable for many years. 

GERMAN COFFEE CAKE 2. 

1 pint sweet milk, % cup yeast, 

1 cup white sugar, % cup lard, 

)4 grated nutmeg. 
Stir up into a thick batter in the evening. Knead in the morn- 
ing as bread, let rise and knead down again, then when light roll 
out into sheets 1£ inches thick, place in dripping pans, and when 
very light spread on the top part of an egg beaten with a little 
milk, then sprinkle with cinnamon, sugar, and bits of butter. 
Bake. 

ZIMMETKUCHE. 

Bread dough, Butter, 

2 eggs, Sugar. 



52 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

Take a piece of dough, add eggs, butter and sugar; mix well 
with the dough, adding flour to stiffen it. It should not be as 
stiff as for bread. Set to rise in a small pan. When light, roll 
quite thin and lay in a pan, or on the tins used for cookies, and let 
rise again. When baked, brush with white of egg, sprinkle 
thickly with sugar and cinnamon, and return to the oven a few 
minutes. Or put butter, sugar and cinnamon on the cake until it 
forms a rich brown caramel half as thick as the cake. 

CORN MEAL CAKE 1. 

3 cups sour buttermilk, 2 eggs, 

% cup brown sugar, 1% teaspoons soda, 

Corn meal for thick batter. 
Grease the tin, pour in the batter and bake in a moderate oven 

CORN MEAL CAKE — 2. 

2 cups milk, % teaspoon salt. 

2 cups Indian meal, 3 eggs, 

Vyi cups flour, Butter size of egg. 

X cup sugar, 3 teaspoons baking powder. 

Rub butter and sugar together, adding salt and the well-beaten 
eggs ; sift the baking powder into the flour and meal, adding them 
and the milk alternately. Mix quickly and bake in a shallow pan 
in a quick oven. This is nice if baked in gem pans. 

CORN MEAL CAKE — 3. 

1 tablespoon sugar, % , 1 pint meal, 

1 tablespoon butter, 2 eggs. 

2 teaspoons baking powder, Salt. 

Add to the meal, into which the baking powder has been sifted, 
salt, sugar, eggs and melted butter. Then add milk enough to 
make a thick batter. Pour the mixture into a well-greased shal- 
low pan, and bake half an hour in a good oven. 

SOFT CORN MEAL CAKE. 

1 heaping pint corn meal, 2 eggs, 

2 tablespoons lard, % teaspoon soda, 
1 tablespoon sugar, Boiling water, 

1 teaspoon salt, Buttermilk. 

Beat eggs and sugar, add salt and melted lard, meal, soda and 
buttermilk to make a thick batter. After it is well mixed pour 
in boiling water till it is very thin. Bake in an earthen pan and 
serve hot. 



JOHNNY CAKE. 53 

HOE CAKE. 

1 pint corn meal, % teaspoon salt, 

Water. 

Pour enough boiling water over the meal to moisten it. Add 

salt and let stand 10 minutes. Then add boiling water until the 

batter will drop from the spoon. Bake in cakes on a hot griddle 

greased with fat salt pork. Serve hot with a piece of butter on 

the top of each cake. This was formerly a famous Southern dish. 

COTTAGE CAKES. 

1 cup sour cream, % teaspoon soda, 

2 large cups flour, 34 teaspoon cream of tartar, 
K teaspoon salt, 1 egg. 

Sift the soda, cream of tartar and salt into the flour; stir in the 
cream and the well-beaten egg. Drop into buttered pans and bake 
in a hot oven 20 minutes. 

NEW ENGLAND JOHNNY CAKE : — 1. 
2 cups milk, 1 heaping tablespoon butter, 

2 cups Indian meal, 1 teaspoon salt, 

1 cup flour, 3 eggs, 

K cup sugar, 3 teaspoons baking powder. 

Rub butter and sugar together ; add beaten 3*olks of eggs, and 
flour into which the baking powder has been sifted, then the milk, 
meal, and salt, and finally the stiffly-beaten whites of eggs. Mix 
quickly and bake in a shallow pan in a hot oven. 

NEW ENGLAND JOHNNY CAKE 2. 

1 cup Indian meal, 1 egg, 

1 cup flour, 1 teaspoon salt. 

1 cup sour milk, 1 teaspoon soda, 

}4 cup sour cream, 1 teaspoon cream of tartar, 

1 tablespoon whito sugar. 
Sift salt and meal, also flour and cream of tartar together ; add 
sugar, mix well. Dissolve soda in milk, beating 1 minute, add 
cream, and stir the ingredients together, beating 3 minutes. 
Lastly add the well-beaten egg. Bake in a shallow pan in a quick 
oven. 

GOOD JOHNNY CAKE. 

2 cups corn meal, 1 teaspoon salt, 

3 cups flour, 4 teaspoons baking powder, 
% cup sugar, 1 egg, 

3 tablespoons melted butter. 



54 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

Mix meal, flour, .sugar and baking powder together; break an 
egg into a pint bowl of cold water; mix, add the meal and butter. 
Bake in a quick oven. 

JOHNNY CAKE 1. 

1 pint buttermilk, 3 eggs, 

1 heaping teaspoon soda, }£ teaspoon salt, 

White corn meal. 
Make a thin batter and bake in a quick oven. 

JOHNNY CAKE — 2. 
1 cup sour cream, 1 or 2 eggs, 

1 cup Indian meal, % teaspoon salt, 

}4 cup flour, 3 tablespoons sugar, 

1 small teaspoon soda. 
Beat the egg and sugar, add salt and cream ; if necessary sour 
or sweet milk can be used in place of cream. If milk is used add 
2 . tablespoons melted butter, stir in meal and flour rapidly, and 
bake 30 minutes in a quick oven. With sweet milk use 1£ heap- 
ing teaspoons baking powder. 

JOHNNY CAKE — 3. 

2 cups corn meal, 1 tablespoon cream, 

1 cup flour, 1 tablespoon sugar, 

2 cups sour milk, 1 tablespoon shortening, 

1 egg, 1 teaspoon soda, 

1 teaspoon salt. 
Stir the sugar, cream and shortening together, and the egg, well 
beaten ; add the milk, in which the soda, dissolved in a little hot 
water, has been stirred. If the milk is very sour more soda will be 
needed ; add the meal, beating smooth, and stir in wheat flour to 
make it thick. Bake in a hot oven. 

WHITE JOHNNY CAKE 4. 

2 cups flour, 2 tablespoons butter, 

1 cup white meal, 3 teaspoons baking powder, 
1)4 cups milk, 1 teaspoon salt, 

K cup sugar, 1 egg. 

Mix rapidly, and bake in a quick oven. 

CRACKERS. 

2 quarts flour, 1 teaspoon soda, 

1 cup butter, 1 teaspoon cream of tartar, 

1 teaspoon salt, Milk or water to mix. 



CRACKERS. 



55 



Beat well and mix in more flour until brittle, roll quite thin and 
cut in squares, prick with a fork and bake in a quick oven. 

EGG CRACKERS. 

12 tablespoons sweet milk, 6 eggs, 

6 tablespoons butter, H teaspoon soda. 

Mould with flour half an hour and roll thin. 

FRENCH CRACKERS. 

IX pounds sugar, % pound butter, 

IK pounds flour, 5 eggs, whites, 

Before cooking brush over with white of egg and dip in sugar. 

EGG CRACKNELS. 
1 quart flour, 1 teaspoon salt, 

5 tablespoons sugar, 1 teaspoon baking powder, 

4 tablespoons butter, 4 eggs. 

Sift sugar, salt, baking powder and flour together ; rub in the 
butter and add the eggs, well beaten. Flour the moulding board, 
put the dough on it, and knead rapidly a few minutes. Cover 
with a damp towel 15 minutes; roll out very thin, about one- 
eighth of an inch, and cut with a biscuit cutter. When all are cut 
out have ready a pot of boiling, and a large bowl of cold water. 
Put a few at a time into the boiling water. When they come to 
the surface and curl over at the edges, take them out with a skim- 
mer and drop into the cold water. When all are done, lay on 
baking pans and bake them in a pretty hot oven 15 minutes. 
This is an old recipe. 

CRACKNELS. 

1 pint milk, 2 ounces butter, 

1 tablespoon yeast. 
Warm the milk and mix enough fine flour to make a light 
dough ; roll thin and cut in long pieces, 2 inches broad. Prick 
well, and bake in a slow oven. 

crumpets — 1. 
3 cups raised dough, 3 eggs, 

. y z cup butter, Milk. 

With the hand work eggs and melted butter into the dough ; 
add sufficient milk to leave it a thick batter ; pour it into a but- 
tered pan ; let it remain half au hour. Then put the pan over the 
fire and heat it so as to scorch the flour. Bake half an hour. 



56 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

CRUMPETS — 2. 
1 pint milk, 1 teaspoon salt, 

1 cup yeast, 4 tablespoons butter, 

3 cups of flour, or more. 
Scald milk, and while warm, add salt and flour ; beat well and 
add the melted butter and yeast. After beating thoroughly, cover 
and set in a warm place to rise. In 2 hours, if very light, put 
into large, well-greased muffin rings placed on a hot griddle. 
Drop in the batter till the rings are half full. Bake brown on one 
side, then turn and brown the other. Take off, spread with butter 
and serve hot. If cold, these can be used by toasting on both 
sides, spreading with butter and serving hot. 

ENGLISH CRUMPETS. 

1 quart warm milk, % cup yeast, 

)4 cup butter, Flour, 

Salt. 
Make a batter, not very stiff, of the milk, salt, yeast, and flour. 
When light add the butter, melted, let stand 20 minutes, and bake 
in cups or muffin rings. 

PROGS. 
1 quart flour, 1 tablespoon butter. 

Pinch of salt, 2 teaspoons baking powder. 

Mix all together thoroughly, then add sufficient flour to make 
into a stiff batter. Drop with a spoon into a pan and bake in the 

oven. 

GEMS AND MUFFINS. 

Few know how necessary care is in the making and baking of 
gems, and that often the recipes which they find unreliable would 
prove very different if they were rightly used. The harder the 
batter is stirred the better. Put the gem pans on top of the 
stove and drop a little lard into the bottom of each to keep the 
gems from sticking. When the pans have become piping hot, fill 
each half full of batter while on the stove, then put them at once 
into a hot oven. Make a hotter fire for baking gems than for any- 
thing else. If the oven is right, the gems will rise until about 
three times as large as when put into the oven, and but a few 
minutes will be required for baking them. Everything should 
be about ready for the table, for, to be very nice, gems must be 



GEMS. 57 

served as soon as they are taken from the oven. These direc- 
tions apply for muffins. 

BANANA GEMS. 

1 cup sugar, % cup water, 

1 cup flour, 3 eggs, 

1 teaspoon baking powder. 

Make batter and stir in 2 bananas sliced thin. Fill cups half 
full and steam an hour. Eat with thin cream. 

CORN MEAL GEMS — 1. 

1 pint milk, 1 tablespoon sugar, 

1 cup meal, 1 teaspoon salt, 

% cup flour, 3 teaspoons baking powder, 

% cup butter, 3 eggs. 

Beat the butter first alone, then add the sugar and beat to a 
cream ; add the eggs well beaten, milk, and flour with the baking 
powder, salt and meal, all sifted together twice. Bake in a hot 
oven half an hour, if in deep gem pans ; or 25 minutes, if in shal- 
low pans. 

CORN MEAL GEMS — 2. 
1 cup Indian meal, 1 teaspoon soda, 

1 cup flour, 1 teaspoon salt, 

}i cup sugar, 1 tablespoon butter, 

1 cup sour milk, 2 eggs. 

Beat eggs and sugar together, and add butter and salt ; then the 
milk with soda dissolved in it, and mix with flour and meal. 
Sweet milk and baking powder can be used, if desired. Beat hard 
for a few minutes, drop from the spoon into hot buttered gem 
pans, and bake in a hot oven from 15 to 20 minutes. 

CORN MEAL GEMS 3. 

1 pint buttermilk, 1 teaspoon salt, 
X A cup flour, 1 teaspoon soda, 
3 eggs, Corn meal. 

Make batter as stiff as it can be poured. Dissolve the soda in a 
little of the milk. Have the pans very hot, and fill them but half 
full. The gems will bake in 15 minutes. 

CORN MEAL GEMS 4. 

2 cups corn meal, 1 teaspoon soda, 
2 cups flour, 1 teaspoon salt, 

2 tablespoons sugar or molasses, 1 tablespoon butter. 



58 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

Mix meal, flour and sugar with enough water to moisten and let 
stand over night. In the morning, stir thoroughly, and add the 
dissolved soda, salt and butter. Drop the mixture in hot gem 
irons, and bake in a hot oven. 

GRAHAM GEMS — 1. 

1 cup sour milk, 1 teaspoon salt, 

1 tablespoon butter, % teaspoon soda, 

1 tablespoon sugar, 1 egg, 

% graham and % white flour. 
Beat the sugar and egg, adding salt and melted butter, then the 
milk in which the soda has been dissolved, and make a batter stiff 
enough to drop, in a soft ball, from the spoon. Bake 20 minutes 
in a hot oven. 

GRAHAM GEMS 2. 

2 quarts buttermilk, 2 teaspoons soda, 
1 tablespoon butter, 1 teaspoon salt, 

1 tablespoon sugar, 2 eggs. 

Use as much graham flour as is needed for a stiff batter. The 
harder it is beaten, the lighter will be the gems when done. 

GRAHAM GEMS 3. 

Make a stiff batter with 1 pint warm water, graham flour and 1 
teaspoon salt. Fill the pans two-thirds full. Bake in a very hot 
oven. 

GRAHAM GEMS 4. 

1)4 pints graham flour % teaspoon salt, 

1 teaspoon sugar, 3 teaspoons baking powder, 

1 teaspoon melted butter, 1 egg, 

Sweet milk for batter. 

Have the gem pans hot, fill them half full of the batter, and 
bake until nicely browned, but not sticky when broken open, in a 
very hot oven. 

"ENTIRE WHEAT" FLOUR GEMS. 
\% cups sour milk, 1 teaspoon salt, 

2 tablespoons sugar, % teaspoon soda, 
\% cups entire wheat flour, 1 egg. 

Beat egg with sugar, add the melted butter, salt, the milk in 
which the soda has been dissolved, and the flour. Bake in hot 
gem pans, well greased. This can be varied by using 2 eggs and 



GEMS. 59 

less flour, also substituting sweet milk and baking powder for the 
sour milk and soda. 

gems — 1. 
1 quart flour, 2 eggs, 

% pint milk, 1 teaspoon salt, 

Yz cup butter, 3 teaspoons baking powder. 

Warm the butter in the milk, add the beaten eggs and salt, and 
last the flour into which the baking powder has been sifted ; have 
irons quite hot and fill ; bake in a hot oven. 

gems — 2. 
1 cup milk, 1 tablespoon butter, 

1 cup flour, 2 eggs, 

1 teaspoon baking powder. 
Beat eggs, adding the melted butter ; stir into the milk and mix 
with flour and baking powder. 

OATMEAL GEMS. 

1 pint oatmeal mush, Salt, 

2 tablespoons bread crumbs, Pepper, 

2 eggs. 
Beat eggs thoroughly, add salt and pepper and stir with the 
bread crumbs into the mush. Then put it into well-buttered gem 
pans, and bake until a nice brown. It can be baked in one pan if 
desired and served as it comes from the oven. 

OATMEAL GEMS. 
1 pint cold, cooked oatmeal, 1 egg, 

1 pint hot milk, 2 teaspoons baking powder. 

Rub the oatmeal in the hot milk until free from lumps, and add 
the well-beaten egg, and the baking powder sifted into some flour. 
Make a stiff batter and bake immediately. 

RAISED OATMEAL GEMS. 
1 quart flour, X cup yeast, 

\)4 cups milk, 1 tablespoon butter, 

1 cup boiled oatmeal, 1 tablespoon sugar. 

1 saltspoon salt. 
Let the oatmeal be warm, rub out any lumps in the hot milk. 
Add butter, sugar, and stir in the flour and milk graduall}-, adding 
the yeast last of all ; beat for 8 minutes. Let rise over night, and 
in the morning warm the pans slightly, butter, fill about two-thirds 
full and let rise 1 hour. Bake well in a hot oven. 



60 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

WHEATEN GEMS. 
1 pint flour, 1 teaspoon baking powder, 

1 cup milk, 1 teaspoon salt, 

2 eggs, 2 tablespoons butter. 

Mix baking powder and salt with the flour. Add to the well- 
beaten yolks of eggs the sweet milk or cream, the melted butter, 
and stir into the flour. Beat well, bake quickty and serve imme- 
diately. 

GRAHAM MUFFINS. 

2 cups graham flour, % cup yeast, 

1 cup wheat flour, 1 teaspoon salt, 

1 tablespoon molasses, 1 teaspoon soda, 

1 tablespoon brown sugar, 2 eggs, 

1 tablespoon melted butter, Wi cups hot milk or water. 
Sift soda and salt with the flour, add sugar, molasses, and 
melted butter. Stir in the yeast and milk. This should make a 
stiff sponge. Mix in the evening and let rise over night. In the 
morning, when pan and rings are buttered, fill rings three-fourths 
full and let the muffins rise nearly 1 hour. Then bake. This 
may be baked in gem pans. 

HOMINY MUFFINS. 

3>2 pints flour, IK tablespoons butter, 

1 pint warm milk, M cup sugar, 

1 cup boiled hominy, 34 cup yeast, 

2 eggs. 

If the hominy is cold stir until smooth in a little of the warm 
milk. Beat eggs and sugar together, stirring in the melted butter. 
Add milk and flour alternately, then the hominy and yeast, beating 
well for 5 minutes. Let rise over night. In the morning, butter 
pan and rings, fill the rings three-fourths full, let rise 1 hour, and 
bake 1 hour in a hot oven. 

"ENTIRE WHEAT" FLOUR MUFFINS. 

1 pint milk, 1 teaspoon salt, 

3 cups flour, }4 cup yeast, 

3 eggs. 

Make a batter of rich milk, yeast, and flour with the salt added. 
Set in a warm place to rise. When light, stir in the well-beaten 
eggs, and fill rings or gem pans half full. Let rise till very light, 
and bake. If the milk is not rich add 1 tablespoon melted 
butter. 



MUFFINS. 61 

MUFFINS — 1. 

1 pint boiling milk, ^ cup yeast, 

% cup sugar, ]/ z teaspoon salt, 

Yz cup butter, 1 egg. 

Rub butter and sugar together, add salt and egg, stir the milk 
in slowly; when sufficiently cool add yeast and flour enough to 
make a stiff batter. Let rise over night, stir down in the morning 
and bake in muffin rings from 20 to 30 minutes. 

MUFFINS — 2. 

1 pint milk, 2 eggs, 

y 2 cup yeast, 1 saltspoon salt. 

Use flour enough to make a stiff batter ; let rise 4 or 5 hours 
and bake in muffin rings in a hot oven, for about 10 minutes. 
This recipe ma}' be made with graham flour, by adding 2 table- 
spoons of molasses, and is excellent. 

ENGLISH MUFFINS. 
1 quart milk, % cup yeast, 

K cup butter, 1 teaspoon salt, 

3 or 4 eggs. 
Warm the milk and put the ingredients into a large mixing 
bowl, with enough flour to make a stiff batter. Beat well, cover 
the mixture and set to rise over night. About half an hour be- 
fore breakfast, grease iron and muffin rings, set the rings on the 
iron, and let them get hot. Beat up eggs and stir into the batter, 
carefully. Pour into the rings. Bake to a light brown on both 
sides, turning carefully. Never split a muffin with a knife while 
hot. 

EXCELLENT MUFFINS. 
7 cups flour, 1 tablespoon sugar, 

1 cup yeast, 1 teaspoon salt, 

X cup butter, 2 eggs. 

Mix the flour to a stiff batter with lukewarm milk, in which the 
butter has been melted, then add sugar, salt, yeast, and lastly the 
well-beaten eggs. Mix at 10 A. M., let rise until 3 P. M.," put 
into the rings and when risen enough bake in a quick oven. 

INDIAN MUFFINS 1. 

1 pint Indian meal, 2 eggs, 

1 pint flour, 1 teaspoon salt, 

yi cup yeast, Milk. 



62 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK 

Pour as much boiling milk over the meal as will moisten it; 
beat the eggs well and add alternately with cold milk and flour, 
stirring in salt and yeast last. Let the batter be soft. As soon 
as light bake in rings or cups. 

INDIAN MUFFINS 2. 

1 quart corn meal, 1 tablespoon butter, 

2 tablespoons yeast, % teaspoon salt. 

Chop the butter into the meal, and pour over all boiling milk to 
form a stiff batter; cool; beat the eggs very light and add witli 
salt and yeast. Let rise and bake as muffins or in gem pans. 

RICE MUFFINS. 

3 pints flour, % cup yeast, 

1 pint warm milk, 1 tablespoon butter, 

1 cup boiled rice," 1 tablespoon sugar, 

2 eggs. 
If the rice is cold soften in a little of the milk. Rub the butter 
and sugar together, adding the well-beaten eggs, flour and the re- 
mainder of the milk alternately, lastly the rice and yeast, mixing 
well. Let rise over night. In the morning fill muffin rings two- 
thirds full and let rise 1 hour. Bake 30 minutes in a hot oven. 

RYE MUFFINS. 
1% pints rye flour, 1 large tablespoon butter, 

1 pint wheat flour, 2 tablespoons molasses, 

2% cups milk, l teaspoon sugar, 

% cup yeast, 1 teaspoon salt, 

% teaspoon soda. 
Mix with the rye and wheat flour the salt, sugar, melted butter, 
and molasses with the soda dissolved in it. Add the milk, stir- 
ring well, then the yeast, and beat well 5 minutes. Let rise all 
night, and in the morning fill the rings two-thirds full of the bat- 
ter, and when light bake in a hot oven. 

INDIAN PONE. 

1 quart water, 1 teaspoon salt, 

2 tablespoons butter, Indian meal. 

Put water over the fire, and when it boils stir in as much meal 
as will make a very thin batter. Let boil 10 minutes and beat 
constantly. Take off, pour it into a pan, add salt, butter, and 
enough meal to make it quite thick. Set away to rise ; in the 



POP-OVERS. C3 

morning make it out in small cakes, butter the tins and bake in a 
moderate oven. Or themore common way is to butter pans, fill, 
them three-fourths full, and bake. This cake requires no yeast 

VIRGINIA PONE. 

1 quart milk, 1 teaspoon salt, 

3 eggs, 1 tablespoon butter. 

Make a thin batter, adding the well-beaten eggs just before 
pouring into pans. Bake in a moderate oven. 

OAT CAKE. 

% pound oatmeal, % teaspoon salt, 

4 tablespoons water. 

Mix all together. Roll as thin as possible from a stiff dough. 

C ut in rounds or squares and bake on ungreased tins. Prick with 

a fork and bake in a quick oven. 

POP-OVERS. 

These favorite breakfast and teacakes are made much the same 
way, except that some housewives prefer to beat the yolks and 
whites of the eggs separately ; both methods may be tried, and 
the one chosen for future use which is preferred. The same pre- 
cautions are taken in preparing the buttered cups and a proper 
oven heat, in avoiding the opening of the oven at first, and in 
baking the little cakes until their sides are brown. The general 
proportions are equal parts of flour and sweet milk, a saltspoon 
of salt and 1 egg to each cup of flour ; the cups for baking are 
filled about one-third. One pint or two cups each of flour and 
milk will make two dozen pop-overs ; the number one can eat is 
limited only by capacity. 

BUCKEYE POP-OVERS. 

2 cups sweet milk, 2 eggs, 

2 cups flour, 1 tablespoon sugar, 

1 tablespoon butter, 1 saltspoon salt. 

"Warm the butter in the milk, add salt and stir in the eggs and 

flour. Bake in very hot cups or gem pans 20 minutes in a quick 

oven. 

POTATO CAKE. 
1 cup mashed potato, 1 saltspoon salt, 

1 cup sweet milk, 1 teaspoon baking powder. 

Add flour to make a stiff batter. Butter the spider well and 



G4 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

when hot put in the cake and cover closely. Turn it once and 
serve as soon as done. 

GRAHAM PUFFS. 
1 quart milk, 1 teaspoon baking powder, 

1 pint graham flour, 2 teaspoons salt, 

1 pint wheat flour, 3 eggs. 

Beat eggs well, add milk, and pour on to the flour, to which salt 
and baking powder have been added. Beat hard for 1 minute, 
pour into hot gem pans, and bake in a quick oven from 20 to 30 
minutes. 

puffs — 1. 
1 teacup milk,' 1 saltspoon salt, 

% teacup flour, 1 egg. 

Mix flour and salt, and stir into the milk and egg. Pour batter 
into the gem pans and bake 30 minutes. 

puffs — 2. 
1 pint milk, 1 tablespoon butter, 

J4 pint flour, 3 eggs, 

1 saltspoon salt. 
Beat eggs thoroughly, add the salt and melted butter and stir 
in the flour and milk. Have gem pans or stone cups very hot, 
and bake in a quick oven 20 or 25 minutes. 

RAISED PUFFS. 

If the wheat bread is light enough for the oven at breakfast 
time, have ready some hot lard in a deep kettle ; with the thumb 
and two fingers pull out some of the dough quite thin, and cut it 
some 2 or 3 inches in length ; as these pieces are cut, drop them 
in the lard and fry like doughnuts. To be eaten like biscuit or 
serve in a vegetable dish with a dressing of hot cream seasoned 
with pepper and salt. 

BOSTON RICE CAKES. 
1 cup hot rice, 3 eggs, 

1 tablespoon butter, Salt to taste, 

4 tablespoons flour. 
Boil a cup of rice, and while hot stir into it butter and salt. 
Beat the whites and yolks of eggs separately, and stir them into 
the rice. Thicken with flour, and bake in muffin rings or on a 
delicately greased griddle. 



WAFFLES. 65 

SALLY LUNN — 1. 
1 pint milk, 1 teaspoon sugar, 

IX pints flour, 1 teaspoon salt, 

4 tablespoons butter, 3 eggs, 

X cup yeast. 

Scald the milk, add the butter and let cool. When lukewarm, 
add salt, sugar, yeast and flour. Beat well, cover and set in a 
warm place to rise until veiy light, which will be 2 hours in sum- 
mer, but longer in winter. Beat the yolks and whites of eggs 
separately, add them to the batter, and stir lightly. Let rise for 
15 minutes. Put in a pan and bake in a moderate oven 40 min- 
utes. Serve hot. 

SALLY LUNN — 2. 

2 cups flour, 1 tablespoon butter, 

1 cup milk, 2 tablespoons sugar, 

% teaspoon salt, 1 egg, 

2 teaspoons baking powder. 

Sift salt and baking powder into the flour, stir in the milk, add 
the melted butter, and the eggs, well beaten. Bake 20 or 30 min- 
utes in a quick oven. 

SNOW CAKES. 
1 pint milk, 1 tablespoon butter, 

13^ pints flour, ■ , 2 teaspoons sugar, 

1 saltspoon salt, 4 eggs, whites, 

3 teaspoons baking powder. 

Rub butter and sugar together, adding the stiffly beaten whites. 
Mix well, and stir in flour to which the baking powder and salt 
have been added, alternately with the milk. Have gem pans very 
hot, fill two-thirds full and bake 25 minutes in a hot oven. 

WAFFLES. 

Much of the art of making good waffles depends on the even- 
ness of the baking. In selecting a waffle iron, choose one with 
four compartments and as simple as possible. Grease the waffle 

irons thoroughly, having them well heated, turn in the batter it 

is convenient to have it in a pitcher — close and place over the fire. 
When the edges are set, turn and bake on the other side. When 
baked, lay in a double row on a plate, butter well, and serve imme- 
diately. A sauce of sugar and cinnamon may be served if desired 



6Q HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

WAFFLES. 
1 pint milk, 1 saltspoon salt, 

% cup butter, 3 eggs. 

Melt the butter in the milk, and when cool, add the well-beaten 
yolks and salt, stirring in the flour gradually. Beat well and add 
the stiff whites. The batter should not be beaten after the whites 
are in. Bake immediately. 

CORN MEAL WAFFLES. 
1 pint sour milk, 1 teaspoon butter, 

1 cup corn meal, 1 teaspoon soda, 

2 eggs. 
Scald the meal ; while hot add lard or butter, then the other in- 
gredients, and flour enough to make a not too stiff batter. Bake 
over a very hot fire. 

QUICK WAFFLES. 

2 pints milk, 1 teaspoon salt, 
1 cup melted butter, 6 eggs, 

4 teaspoons baking powder. 
Make a soft batter of the milk, butter, and flour with the salt 
added, add the well-beaten yolks, then the whites, and, just before 
baking, the baking powder. These are good with fewer eggs. 

PLAIN WAFFLES. 

1}4 pints cold milk. 1 saltspoon salt, 

V% pints flour, 3 teaspoons baking powder, 

4 teaspoons butter, 3 eggs. 

Melt the butter in the milk, put salt and baking powder into the 
flour, mix all well together; add last of all the eggs, very thor- 
oughly beaten. This recipe can be used for rice or hominy waf- 
fles by adding 1 cup of either boiled rice or hominy. Kemember 
in the case of muffins and waffles, as well as bread and rolls, that 
if moist flour is used, more must be added to the amount named. 

RAISED WAFFLES. 

1 pint milk, 1 teaspoon salt, 

2 tablespoons butter, ^ cup yeast. 

Warm the milk and butter together ; beat the eggs and add them 
alternately with the flour ; stir in the yeast and salt. When risen, 
heat the irons and butter them, pour in some of the batter and 
brown on both sides. Butter and serve with or without sugar and 
cinnamon. 



CRULLERS. 07 

RICE WAFFLES — 1. 
1 quart flour, 1 tablespoon sugar, 

2% cups milk, 1 tablespoon butter, 

1 cup boiled rice, 1 teaspoon salt, 

]4. cup yeast, 2 eggs. 

Melt the butter in the milk, add 1 egg, well beaten, with sugar 
and salt. Mix the rice very thoroughly, and stir in the flour and 
yeast. Beat well and let rise over night, or if set in the morning, 
all day. Add 1 egg, well beaten, before baking. 

RICE WAFFLES — 2. 
\)4 pints boiled rice, 1 teaspoon salt, 

IK pints flour, 1 tablespoon butter, 

1 cup sour milk, 1 teaspoon soda, 

3 eggs. 
Beat eggs and sugar together, adding the melted butter, and 
rubbing in the rice and salt. Stir soda into the milk, and add 
with the flour. Mix well and bake immediately. 

CRULLERS AND DOUGHNUTS. 

Directions for boiling fat. — Put into a rather deep kettle 2 or 3 
pounds lard or beef suet, prepared for boiling. The article to be 
cooked must be completely covered. Test the heat of the fat. 
When it simmers, throw in a bit of bread ; if it browns directly, 
the fat is hot enough ; if it burns set the kettle on the back of the 
stove. Should there be danger of burning while cooking, drop 
into the fat a piece of raw potato. Doughnuts, like fritters, 
should cook in 8 minutes. If the bit of dough used to test the 
heat is slow in rising to the surface, wait till the heat has increased. 
Make the dough as soft as can be handled. When done, drain 
well in a skimmer and place in a colander, or lay for a moment on 
a piece of soft, thick paper. The use of eggs prevents the dough 
from absorbing fat. Doughnuts should be watched closely while 
frying. After using the fat cut a potato in slices and put in the 
fat to clarify it, place the kettle away until the fat settles, strain 
into an earthen jar kept for this purpose, and set in a cool place. 
Fry in an iron kettle, the common skillet being too shallow for 
the purpose. Crullers are better the day after the}' are made. If 
lard is not fresh and sweet, slice a raw potato, and fry before put- 
ting in the cakes. 



68 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

PREPARED SUET. 

Use only beef suet, which is quite cheap, cleanly and healthy. 
Buy nice, whole, clean leaves, and cut them in small pieces, put 
into a pot, which will hold ten pounds, add a pint of water, and 
after the first hour stir frequently ; it takes about ttu-ee hours with 
a good heat to render it. Drain through a coarse towel, and if the 
suet is good it will require but little squeezing, and leave but little 
scrap or cracklings. Put to cool in pans or jars. It is cheaper 
and more wholesome than lard. Save also all the fat from beef, 
both raw or cooked. Put in a frying pan with just enough water 
to keep from burning. Cook over a slow fire till all is melted. 
After a few minutes add a few slices of potato, let stand 5 min- 
utes, take off the fire to settle, and strain it into jars. Fat pre- 
pared in this way will keep a long time, if covered closely after 
using from it. 

crullers — 1. 

5 tablespoons melted lard, 1 teaspoon cinnamon, 

4 tablespoons sugar, 3 eggs 

Powdered sugar. 
Beat the eggs with sugar and cinnamon ; add the lard, and flour 
enough to roll out one-half inch thick. Use as little as possible 
in preparing for boiling. Cut them in any shape desired. Drop 
carefully into the lard, turn them when ready, and as soon as 
cooked lay on brown paper. When dry, powder with sugar. 
These are very nice if not made too stiff. 

crullers — 2. 

1 cup sugar, 4 eggs, 
% cup butter, Flour. 

Rub butter and sugar together, add the well-beaten eggs, and 
flour ; make very soft, and roll out one-half thick. Make into any 
fancy shape. Boil in the hot fat, and when dry sift powdered 
sugar over them. 

crullers — 3. 

2 tablespoons sugar, Pinch of soda, 
2 tablespoons cream or butter, Pinch of salt, 

2 eggs. 
Mix cream or butter and sugar, add salt, the well-beaten eggs 
and soda, flavor to taste, and stir in sufficient flour to roll out one- 



DOUGHNUTS. 69 

half inch thick on the board. Use as little flour in handling as 
possible, and fry immediately. 

CREAM DOUGHNUTS. 

1 cup sour cream, 1 teaspoon salt, 

1 cup sugar, 1 teaspoon soda, 

2 eggs. 

Beat sugar and eggs together, add cream and soda, salt, any 

spice desired, and flour enough to roll out. Cut in circles with a 

double cutter, and drop into the boiling lard. 

COMMON DOUGHNUTS. 

1 cup sugar, 2 tablespoons lard and butter, 

1 cup milk, 2 teaspoons baking powder, 
•1 saltspoon salt, 2 eggs, 

Nutmeg or cinnamon tO'taste. 

Rub butter and sugar together, add milk, salt, spice, the eggs, 
well beaten, and just enough flour to roll out one-half inch thick. 
Cut in circles, or long pieces to twist and fry in boiling lard. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

2 cups sugar, 1 tablespoon butter, 
1 cup sweet milk, 1 teaspoon salt, 

6 cups flour, 1 teaspoon cinnamon. 

3 eggs, 3 teaspoons baking powder. 

Beat eggs, sugar and butter together; add milk, spices and 
flour; make sufficiently stiff to roll out one-fourth inch in thick- 
ness ; cut in squares, make 3 long incisions in each square, lift up 
by taking alternate strips between the finger and thumb, and drop 
into hot lard. 

PIECRUST DOUGHNUTS. 

1 teacup sour dough, 3 eggs, 

% cup sugar, 1 saltspoon salt, 

X teaspoon soda, % nutmeg, 

Flour to make stiff dough. 
The sour dough used for wetting is prepared as fo Hows : Save 
the bits of pie crust left from baking, add just enough sweet milk 
to cover, and put in a warm place to become sour. When the 
doughnuts are mixed, rolled and cut out, let them lie on the board 
until they begin to rise, then fry in boiling lard. The dough must 
be as soft as can be easily handled. 



70 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

NEW ENGLAND RAISED DOUGHNUTS. 
1 cup milk, 4 tablespoons butter, 

% cup sugar, 1 teaspoon salt, 

Yz cup yeast, 2 eggs, 

1 teaspoon cinnamon. 

Beat eggs and sugar together, add to the milk in which the but- 
ter has been warmed ; stir in when cool, the yeast, salt, cinnamon, 
and sufficient flour to make a dough just stiff enough to be 
kneaded into a soft mass. Butter an earthen crock; cover and 
set in a cool place to rise 24 hours. Turn out on a well-floured 
board, handle as little as possible ; roll out one-half inch thick. 
Cut into rings or twists — the twist seems nicer in cooking. Drop 
into the boiling lard. When cooked they should be like a puff 
with none of the bread consistency to them. Very nice. 

RAISED DOUGHNUTS 1. 

1 pint milk, 1 small cup butter and lard, 

1 large boiled potato, y 2 teaspoon salt, 

1 cup yeast, 1 teaspoon cinnamon, 
5 cups flour, 3 eggs, 

2 cups white sugar, Pinch of soda. 

Add to the smoothly mashed potato, the milk, salt, j^east and 
flour, and let rise over night. In the morning stir in the sugar, 
lard and butter, the beaten eggs, cinnamon and soda, with flour so 
that the spoon will stand almost alone, and let rise till light. Roll 
out half an inch thick, let stand 15 minutes to rise after cutting 
out. Twist, or cut in squares. Boil like fritters, and break one 
open to be sure all are fully done. A very nice variation of this 
recipe may be made as follows : Boll part of the dough about half 
an inch thick, cut into small biscuit, let rise, and when light, roll 
down a little, lay a few raisins rolled in cinnamon in the center, 
wet the edges by dipping the finger in cold water and passing it 
over them, draw together and press firmly, and drop the cakes in 
the hot fat. A teaspoon of apple butter or any kind of jam may 
be used instead of the raisins. When made with the raisins, they 
are the real German "Olfy Koeks. " 

RAISED DOUGHNUTS 2. 

3 pints bread sponge, , 1 cup sugar, 

3 eggs, % cup butter. 



FRITTERS. 71 

Mix with the hand as soft as possible ; let rise. Mould again ; 
have the breadboard floured, put the dough on it, roll half an inch 
thick and cut out. Let them rise half an hour. Fry in moder- 
ately hot lard. 

BERLIN PANCAKES. 

Roll out dough slightly sweetened and shortened, as if for very 
plain doughnuts ; cut in circles like biscuit, put a teaspoon of cur- 
rant jam or jelly on the center of one, lay another upon it, press 
the edges tightly together with the fingers, and fry quickly in boil- 
ing fat. They will be perfect globes when done, a little smaller 
than oranges. 

TRIPLES. 
1 quart flour, 2 tablespoons melted butter, 

1 cup sugar, 1 teaspoon salt, 

1 egg, ■ 2 teaspoons baking powder. 

Mix these ingredients, adding milk sufficient to make a rather 
stiff batter; roll out in thin sheets, cut in pieces about 2 by 4 
inches ; make as many cuts across the short way as possible, in- 
serting the knife near one edge and ending the cut just before 
reaching the other. Pass 2 knitting needles under ever}' other 
strip, spread the needles as far apart as possible, and with them 
hold the trifles in the fat until a light brown. Only one can be 
fried at a time. 

FRITTERS. 

Make fritters quickly and beat thoroughly. A good rule for 
them is two eggs, one-half pint milk, one teaspoon salt, and two 
cups flour ; have the lard in which to cook them nice, sweet, hot, 
and at least 2£ inches deep ; more will be necessary if a large 
amount are to be fried. Clarified fat boils at about five hundred 
degrees — more than double the heat of boiling water — and fat 
actually boiling will burn to a cinder anjr thing that is dropped 
into it. The proper cooking heat is three hundred and seventy- 
five degrees, and is indicated by a blue smoke arising from the 
surface of the fat. When this point is reached, the fat may be 
held at that degree of heat, and prevented from burning by drop- 
ping into it a peeled potato or a piece of hard bread, which fur- 
nishes something for the fat to act on. The heat may also be 



72 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

tested by dropping in a teaspoon of the batter; if the tempera- 
ture is right it will quickly rise in a light ball with a splutter, and 
soon brown; take up. carefully the moment they are done, with a 
wire spoon ; drain in a hot colander, and sift powdered sugar over 
them ; serve hot. Pork fritters are made by dipping thin bits of 
breakfast bacon or fat pork in the batter ; fruit fritters b} r chop- 
ping any kind of fresh or canned fruit fine and mixing it with bat- 
ter, or by dipping quarters or halves in batter. The fruit may be 
improved in flavor by sprinkling sugar and grated lemon peel over 
it, and allowing it to remain two or three hours, after which drain 
and dip as above. Batter for fritters should be made an hour be- 
fore using, as the grains of flour swell by standing after being 
moistened, and thus become lighter. Add the whites of eggs just 
before frying. It is better not to use sugar in batter, as it tends 
to make it heavy. Sprinkle over them in the dish when just ready 
to serve. Do not attempt to make fritters unless there is plenty of 
time. It will take 30 minutes to fry enough for a small family, 
and they require very careful watching. Put in only a few fritters 
3,t a time ; turn when brown. They should be done in 8 minutes. 

APPLE FRITTERS. 

1 cup lukewarm milk, 1 saltspoon salt, 

2 cups flour, 1 tablespoon sugar, 

2 eggs, 1 large teaspoon baking powder. 

Add the milk slowly to the beaten yolks and sugar, then the 
flour and whites of eggs ; stir all together, and throw in thin slices 
of good sour apples, dipping the batter up over them; drop in 
boiling lard in large spoonfuls with a piece of apple in each, and 
fry to a light brown. Serve with maple syi'up or a nice syrup 
made of sugar. This batter is nice for orange and banana fritters. 
Peel and divide oranges into sections. Peel and slice bananas. 
C over each piece of fruit with the batter and drop into the boiling 
lard. 

PLAIN BATTER FRITTERS. 
1 pint milk, 3 eggs, 

1 pint flour, 1 teaspoon baking powder, 

Pinch of salt, Any flavor. 

Beat whites and yolks of eggs separately ; put salt and baking 



FRITTERS. 



73 



powder into the flour; stir the yolks and milk into the flour, add- 
ing the whites last. Drop by the teaspoon into deep boiling lard. 
When brown remove with a skimmer and place on brown paper in 
the open oven. Sift over them powdered sugar before serving or 
eat with sauce. The baking powder may be omitted, if desired. 

BELL FRITTERS. 

1 pint boiling water, 6 eggs, 

1 pint flour, 3 tablespoons butter. 

Boil butter in the water, pour instantly over the flour and mix 

smooth. While still hot add the eggs, one at a time, beating each 

by itself. Stir fast to prevent curdling. Beat hard. Boil in hot 

lard and serve as plain fritters. 

CLAM FRITTERS. 

yi pint clam juice, Salt, 

K pint sweet milk, Flour, 

4 eggs to each pint liquid. 
Beat yolks and whites of the eggs separately; stir yolks, salt 
and liquid together, add whites and flour sufficient to stiffen, and 
the finely chopped clams , raw. Fry like other fritters. 

CORN FRITTERS. 

6 ears corn, 2 tablespoons flour, 

1 egg, % teaspoon baking powder, 

Salt and pepper. 
Cut each row of grains with a sharp knife and scrape out the 
pulp. Add salt and pepper to taste ; stir in the well-beaten egg, 
and the baking powder with flour sufficient to make a stiff batter. 
One-half cup milk can be added to the batter. In that case an 
extra half teaspoon baking powder must be added to the larger 
amount of flour needed. These should be puffs when done. 

CORN OYSTER FRITTERS. 

12 ears grated corn, 1 teaspoon salt, 

1 cup milk, Dash of pepper, 

1 cup flour, x /i teaspoon baking powder, 

% cup melted butter, 2 eggs, 

Mix well and drop by spoonfuls into boiling lard. Each fritter 
should be the size of a large oyster. 



74 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

CANNED CORN FRITTERS. 
1 pound canned corn, 1 teaspoon salt, 

1 cup sweet milk, 2 eggs, 

3 teaspoons baking powder. 
Beat eggs thoroughly, stir all the ingredients together, adding 
enough flour to make a stiff batter. Fry like other fritters. 
Serve without a sauce. 

CREAM FRITTERS. 

IX pints flour, 6 eggs, 

1 pint milk, 2 teaspoons salt, 

1 pint cream, Nutmeg. 

Beat whites and yolks of the eggs separately, add yolks to the 
milk, then the flour, salt, the whites, and lastly the cream. Stir 
the whole enough to mix the cream ; fry in small cakes. 

FRUIT FRITTERS. 

1 cup flour, 1 tablespoon melted butter, 

1 cup fruit juice or milk, 2 eggs, 
Pinch of salt. 
Beat whites and j'olks of the eggs separately ; mix yolks with 
the flour and salt, stirring in milk and butter till a smooth batter 
the consistency of thick cream is formed. Then add the stiffly- 
beaten whites. Dip fruit in this and boil in lard. Apples should 
be about half cooked before usiug, otherwise the}^ will be but par- 
tially cooked when the flitter is done. 

HOMINY FRITTERS. 
1 cup boiled hominy, 3 eggs, 

1 cup flour, 1 saltspoon salt, 

% cup milk, 1 teaspoon baking powder. 

Beat eggs and salt, add the hominy and milk well mixed, and 
the flour into which the baking powder has been sifted. Drop in 
spoonfuls into hot lard, and fry to a rich brown. Serve with 
lemon sauce. 

LEMON FRITTERS. 

y 2 pound flour, % pound eggs, 

K pound sugar, 8 tablespoons milk, 

Juice and y 2 grated peel of a lemon. 

Beat well the yolks of the eggs, add the flour and milk ; beat 

whites stiff with the sugar, lemon juice and some of the yellow 

peel grated off, or extract of lemon. Beat the whites well into 



FRITTERS. 75 

the batter and proceed to cook. Have plenty of good lard, heated 
slowly; just as it begins to smoke, after bubbling, drop in by 
spoonfuls enough fritters to fill the vessel without crowding. The 
cold batter will lower the temperature of the fat sufficiently to 
keep it at proper cooking heat. The frittei-s wiU begin to brown 
very quickly, and should be turned with a wire spoon. If they 
begin to color dark brown, check the heat immediately. If these 
directions are followed accurately, they may be lifted from the fat 
and laid upon a napkin or folded paper comparatively free from 
grease. Fritters bear a bad reputation, but when properly made, 
and eaten occasionally for a change, are quite as wholesome as 
many of the dishes recommended as food for dyspeptics. 

ORANGE FRITTERS. 

1 cup flour, 1 tablespoon oil or melted butter, 

1 egg, Yz teaspoon salt, 
y 2 cup water, Valencia oranges. 

It is better to prepare the batter, except the whites of the eggs, 
on the morning before the day the fritters are to be made. Put 
the flour into a bowl, add the beaten yolk of the egg, salt, and oil 
or butter, with water enough to make a rather thick fritter batter. 
This part of the batter French cooks think improved by standing 
two or three da3 r s. Just before using, add the white of 1 egg, 
beaten as stiff as possible. Then cut the oranges across in circles ; 
remove the yellow peel and the seeds from each, but do not take 
the pulp from the inner skin ; leave the orange circles together in 
a dish. Coat each slice of orange completely in the batter, and 
plunge it at once in boiling fat. As soon as the fritters are 
browned well lift them out of the fat, with a wire spoon, to drain. 
La}" them for a moment on coarse brown paper, such as bakers use, 
to absorb the fat on the outside of the fritter. Dredge them with 
powdered sugar, and serve at once, with a little cut lemon and 
powdered sugar. 

ORANGE, PEACH OR PINEAPPLE FRITTERS. 

2 cups flour, 2 tablespoons butter, 
1 cup lukewarm water, Yz teaspoon salt, 

2 eggs. 
Melt butter, add to the water with salt and the \7ell-beaten 



76 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

yolks; stir in the flour, and just before using add the whites 
beaten stiff. Peel and quarter small, sweet oranges and lay in 
sweetened cream, add a little grated orange peel to the batter be- 
fore frying. Peaches should be pared, pitted, and halved before 
putting into the cream. Pare the pineapple, pick in large pieces 
from the core and drop into the cream. The fruit should lie in 
the cream 1 hour before putting into the batter preparatory to fry- 
ing. Cover the pieces of fruit with the batter and drop into boil- 
ing hot lard. Fry till delicately browned. Take up on coarse 
brown paper, la}' off on a platter, sift powdered sugar over them 
and serve at once. 

OYSTER FRITTERS 1. 

Make batter as for Plain Fritters and use the oyster liquor in- 
stead of milk. Omit the salt. Dip oysters in the batter, and 
boil in lard, serving at once. Lay slices of lemon on them as 
served. 

OYSTER FRITTERS — 2. 

Make batter as in No. 1, but chop oysters and mix in batter in- 
stead of frying whole. Less flour will be needed in the batter, for 
it must be quite thin. Cook and serve as in No. 1. 

PARSNIP FRITTERS. 

Scrape and lay in cold salted water half an hour. Put in salted 
boiling water, and cook till tender. Allow from 30 to 45 minutes 
for young parsnips, and from 15 to 30 minutes longer if old ones. 
If old, peel and split before boiling. When cooked cut in finger 
strips, dip in batter, the Plain Batter recipe is good, and fry till 
well puffed and brown in very hot and deep lard. The batter 
should be stiff enough to hold its shape when dropped from the 
spoon. 

PEACH FRITTERS. 

If fresh, peel, stone, and halve the peaches. Spread sugar over 
them and grated lemon peel if liked. Set away 2 hours in a cov- 
ered dish. Make batter for Fruit Fritters, using the juice or syrup 
from the canned peaches in place of milk. Dip the peaches singly 
in the batter. Cover well and fry in the boiling fat. When a 
fine brown take out with a wire spoon and place on brown paper in 



FRITTERS. 77 

the open oven. Serve with powdered sugar, or a fruit sauce. 
Either fresh or canned peaches may be used. 

PINEAPPLE FRITTERS. 

Pick or grate fresh pineapple. Spread over with sugar and set 
away 2 hours. Take juice of this, or syrup of canned pineapple 
for the liquid used in making the batter for Fruit Fritters. Stir 
pineapple into the batter and fry in boiling lard. Serve with a 
fruit sauce made of sugar, raisins, and sliced bananas. 

POTATO FRITTERS. 

2 cups mashed potatoes, % teaspoon salt, 

K cup flour, 2 eggs, 

4 tablespoons butter, 14 pint milk. 

Melt butter and mix with potato; stir all the ingredients to- 
gether, adding whites of the eggs last. Have a stiff batter. Drop 
very carefully into the lard so the batter will not break in falling. 
queen's fritters. 

1 cup hot water, 1 tablespoon sugar, 

yi cup butter, 1 slice of lemon, 

1 cup flour, 3 eggs. 

Boil butter in hot water with sugar and lemon. After boiling 
a few minutes, skim out the rind and be sure that there is a cup of 
water left ; if less than that, add sufficient to make it up, and 
while boiling, beat in the flour. Stir until smooth ; take off the 
stove and when cool stir in the eggs, one at a time, without beat- 
ing. Drop the batter from a spoon into boiling lard. Fry to a 
nice brown. These will puff up beautifully, and are delicious 
with maple syrup. 

RICE FRITTERS 1. 

2 cups boiled rice, 4 tablespoons milk, 
1 saltspoon salt, 2 tablespoons flour, 

3 eggs. 
Beat yolks of the eggs well, add the milk, stir in the flour 
smoothly, and add all to the rice, stirring it in well. Beat whites 
to a stiff froth and add last. Dip the batter up in spoonfuls and 
drop into hot lard. Brown well on both sides, take up with a wire 
spoon, and lay on brown paper or a wire sieve, for a moment, to 
drain off the fat. Serve hot, with sugar or syrup. 



78 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

RICE FRITTERS 2. 

2 cups milk, 2 tablespoons butter, 

2 cups boiled rice, 2 tablespoons sugar, 

2 eggs, 1 teaspoon baking powder. 

Mix the ingredients together, adding whites of eggs last, enough 
flour being used to make a stiff batter. Drop from a spoon into 
boiling lard and fry a nice brown. 

RICE FRITTERS 3. 

1 cup boiled rice, 2 teaspoons butter, 

1 cup flour, X A saltspoon soda, 

1 cup milk, % grated lemon peel, 

}i cup Zante currants, 3 eggs, 

% cup sugar, Grated nutmeg. 

Mix, adding sugar to the flour and stirring in lemon peel, cur- 
rants, and a little nutmeg just before boiling. 

ALABAMA RICE FRITTERS. 
1 pint milk, 1 quart flour, 

1 cup boiled rice, 4 eggs, 

3 teaspoons baking powder. 
Make into a batter; drop by spoonfuls into boiling lard, and 

serve with the following 

Sauce : 
1 pound sugar, 1)4 cups water, 

Stick of cinnamon. 
Boil until clear. Serve. 

SQUASH FRITTERS. 

1)4 cups milk, )4 teaspoon salt, 

1)4 cups winter squash, )4 saltspoon soda, 

1 egg, Flour for thick batter. 

Mix as previously directed, acid the smoothly mashed squash, 
just before the whites. Beat the mixture till very smooth. Fry 
as for other fritters. These are very nice. 

VANITIES. 

2 eggs, Pinch of salt, 

)4 teaspoon rose-water. 

Beat eggs, stir in salt and rose-water, add sifted flour till just 
thick enough to roll out, cut with a cake-cutter, and fry quickly in 
hot lard. Sift powdered sugar on them while hot, and when cool 
put a teaspoon of jelly in the center of each one. Nice for tea 
or dessert. 



GRIDDLE CAKES. 7!> 

CORN OYSTERS 1. 

1 quart grated corn, 3 eggs, 

3 grated crackers, Pepper and salt. 

To the corn add the eggs and crackers, beat well and season 
with pepper and salt ; have ready in skillet butter and lard or beef 
drippings in equal proportions, hot but not scorching ; drop in 
little cakes about the size of an oyster, for this purpose using a tea- 
spoon ; when brown turn and fry on the other side, watching con- 
stantly for fear of burning. If the fat is just the right heat, the 
oj'sters will be light and delicious, but if not, heavy and soggy. 
Serve hot and keep dish well covered. It is better to beat whites 
of eggs to a stiff froth and add just before frying. 

CORN OYSTERS 2. 

1 pint grated corn, 2 eggs, 

X cup cream, Pepper and salt, 

% cup flour, % teaspoon baking powder. 

Stir cream into corn, add baking powder and flour with salt and 
pepper to taste ; last the well-beaten eggs. Fry in butter, drop- 
ping the batter in spoonfuls. Serve very hot with meats. 

GRIDDLE-CAKES. 

Use, if possible, a soapstone griddle. Though more expensive 
than iron, it is nicer, as it requires no greasing. If an iron grid- 
dle is used, grease with a piece of fat salt pork on the end of a 
fork. Have the griddle hot before beginning to fry cakes. Beat 
griddle-cakes thoroughly to ensure their perfection. Separate the 
eggs, whipping the yolks to a thick cream, and adding the whites 
beaten to a stiff froth just before baking. Try a little of the bat- 
ter first, to be sure it is all right, and the griddle of the required 
heat. Allow one tablespoon of batter to each cake. Buckwheat 
batter may be poured from a cup, or dip out carefully with a large 
spoon, placing it when emptied in a saucer. If the cakes are 
doughy inside, the griddle is too hot ; if dry and tough, it is not 
hot enough. Buckwheat cakes must be light, thick and spongy. 
Many prefer to bake them without stirring after the batter has 
risen. Never turn griddle-cakes the second time while baking. 
When done la} r in a pile on a hot plate. 



80 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

BATTER CAKES. 
3 cups sour milk, 3 tablespoons butter, 

3 cups flour, 2 level teaspoons soda, 

3 eggs, 1 teaspoon salt. 

Beat yolks of the eggs, add salt and melted butter, milk, and 
the flour into which the soda has been sifted, and the whites just 
before baking. Sweet milk can be used with 3 teaspoons baking 
powder. This makes three dozen cakes. Less eggs and more 
flour can be used if desired. 

BATTER CAKES WITHOUT MILK. 

Mix either flour or cornmeal with warm water until of the con- 
sistency of cream, then put in a warm place where it will sour. 
Add bread crumbs from time to time, also dough left from cook- 
ing, bits of butter, and once in a while a little yeast. In the 
morning take as much as is needed for breakfast cakes, acid salt, 
soda and enough flour to make the batter thicker than when eggs 
are used. These cakes are very nice. 

BUCKWHEAT CAKES. 

Buckwheat flour, when properly ground, is perfectly free from 
grits. The grain should be run through the smutter with a strong 
blast before grinding, and the greatest care taken through the 
whole process. Adulteration with rye or corn cheapens the flour, 
but injures the quality. The pure buckwheat is best, and is un- 
surpassed for griddle cakes, but as some do not like the simple 
flavor of the buckwheat a variety of recipes will be given. 

BUCKWHEAT BATTER. 
1 pint warm sweet milk, 1 cup yeast, 

1 pint warm water, 2 teaspoons salt, 

5 cups buckwheat flour. 
Put one-half the liquid in a stone crock, add buckwheat flour 
and beat well till smooth; add the remainder of the milk and 
water, and lastly the yeast. Or use the same ingredients and pro- 
portions, adding 2 tablespoons molasses or sugar. Water may be 
used instead of milk and water. 

BUCKWHEAT CAKES 1. 

2 quarts buckwheat flour, % cup yeast, 

1 quart corn meal, 1 teaspoon salt, 

1 cup graham flour, Lukewarm water, 

Little soda. 



GRIDDLE CAKES. 81 

Stir the salt into the flour and meal ; make a pretty stiff batter 
with water, adding yeast and set to rise in a warm place over 
night. If too thick in the morning, add carefully a little warm 
water, stir well and let stand a few minutes before baking. A 
small quantity of soda will do away with any sourness. Bake on 
a hot griddle well greased. Buckwheat cakes should always be 
eaten piping hot. Do not try to eat them singly, but always in 
layers of four, at least, with butter between each. Over the top 
spread maple sjTup. When this is cut it will be light, soft and 
hot, the syrup and butter will have melted into the cakes, and the 
whole will melt in the mouth, a delicious morsel. 

BUCKWHEAT CAKES 2. 

1 quart boiling water, 3^ cup wheat flour, 

\}4 pints buckwheat flour, % cup yeast, 

% cup corn meal, 1 teaspoon salt. 

Wet the corn meal with a little cold water about noon and stir 
it into boiling water. Boil till it forms a thin gruel. When cool 
add the other ingredients. Beat thoroughly and set to rise in a 
warm place. At night, beat well again, and let rise in a cool place 
till morning. Before baking add one-half teaspoon soda ; a little 
water ma}- be needed if the batter seems very thick. Let the 
griddle be moderately hot. 

EXCELLENT BUCKWHEAT CAKES. 

3 pints buckwheat flour, 3 tablespoons wheat flour, 

3 cups warm fresh milk, 1 teaspoon salt, 

\ l /z cups warm water, 2 cups yeast. 

Set in the evening for breakfast. Mix the salt, yeast and flours 
together; add the warm milk and water. Beat together thor- 
oughly. Cover and let rise over night. The top should be full 
of bubbles when risen, and the cakes must be light and spongy. 
Do not heat the griddle very hot, for the batter being thick the 
cakes will not cook quickly in the middle. If batter is sour, add 
a little soda ; if too thick, a little warm water. 

» BUTTERMILK GRIDDLE-CAKES. 

1 quart buttermilk, 2 teaspoons salt, 

2 teaspoons soda, 1 egg, 

Flour for thin batter. 
Beat the egg and salt, mix with the buttermilk and flour, and 



82 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

add the soda dissolved in hot water just before frying. Sufficient 
for a family of six. 

CORN MEAL CAKES 1. 

1 pint corn meal, 1 teaspoon soda, 

1 pint buttermilk, 1 teaspoon salt, 

1 egg. 
Sour milk can be used in place of the buttermilk, also another 
egg improves the batter. Beat well and bake. 

CORN MEAL CAKES 2. 

1 quart boiling milk, ~% cup flour, 

1 pint corn meal, 1 teaspoon salt, 

3 eggs. 

Pour the boiling water over the corn meal; let cool and add 
flour, salt and well-beaten eggs. Grease a hot griddle and fry. 

CORN DODGERS. 

1 pint grated corn, }{ teaspoon salt, 

3 tablespoons flour, 3 eggs; 

Beat the eggs, add corn and salt; mix thoroughly and fry on a 
hot buttered griddle. 

CRUMB CAKES. 
1 quart sour milk, Bread crumbs, 

1 tablespoon melted butter, 2 teaspoons soda, 

4 eggs. 

The night before using put some bread crumbs to soak in the 
milk ; in the morning rub through a sieve, and add the eggs, but- 
ter, the soda dissolved in a little water, and enough corn meal to 
make the consistency of ordinary griddle-cakes. It is better to 
beat yolks and whites separately, stirring the whites lightly in just 
before baking. 

FRIED BREAD. 

Yz pint milk, 1 egg, 

Yz teaspoon salt. 

Beat the egg into the milk, adding salt. Dip into it slices of 

bread, fry in butter to a delicate brown ; serve hot. A nice 

breakfast dish when sausages are served is made by dipping the 

bread as directed and frying in the hot sausage fat. The bread 

must cook quickly in order not to become hard, and the fat must 

be hot but not sufficient to burn. 



GRIDDLE CAKES. 83 

RAISED FLANNEL CAKES. 

1% pints milk, 1 tablespoon butter, 

3 cups flour, 1 teaspoon salt, 

X cup yeast, 2 eggs. 

Warm the butter in the milk ; when sufficiently cool add yeast, 
salt, and beat thoroughly. Set in a warm place to rise over night. 
Beat yolks and whites separately, and add first yolks and then the 
whites to the batter. Let stand 15 minutes. Fry on a hot grid- 
dle. 

FLANNEL CAKES. 

1 pint sweet hot milk, 2 large tablespoons butter, 

1 pint sweet cold milk, 1 teaspoon salt, 

Yz cup yeast, 4 eggs. 

Let the butter melt in the hot milk, and add cold milk and the 
yolks of eggs well beaten, salt, potato yeast, and sufficient flour to 
make a stiff batter ; set in a warm place to rise ; let stand from 
breakfast till supper, or over night ; before baking add the beaten 
whites ; fry like any other griddle-cakes. Be sure to make batter 
just stiff enough, for flour must not be added in the morning 
unless it is allowed to rise again. . 

FRENCH GRIDDLE-CAKES. 
% pound flour, 4 ounces butter, 

K pint milk, 1 ounce sugar. 

Beat together till smooth the eggs and flour, melt the butter and 
add to the batter, with sugar and milk, beating thoroughly. Put 
1 tablespoon at a time into a hot frying pan slightly greased, 
spreading the batter evenly over the surface of the pan by tipping 
it about, fry to a light brown, spread with jelly. Roll it up, dust 
with powdered sugar, and serve hot. 

GRAHAM PATS. 
1 cup sour milk, 1 egg, 

K teaspoon soda, 1 saltspoon salt. 

Beat the egg, add salt and soda dissolved in the milk ; make a 
stiff batter with graham flour. Have a spider very hot with plenty 
of drippings. Drop in pats of the dough, cover, and when brown 
turn them. 



84 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

GRAHAM GRIDDLE-CAKES. 
1 quart graham flour, 1 tablespoon butter, 

3 eggs, . 1 teaspoon baking powder, 

1 teaspoon salt. 
Beat the eggs thoroughly, add the melted butter, salt, flour, and 
milk or water enough to make a thin batter. 

OATMEAL CAKES 1. 

1 cup sour milk, 1 teaspoon salt, 

%, cup sour cream, 1 teaspoon soda, 

~% cup cooked oatmeal, 3 eggs. 

Beat the eggs very light, adding salt, and stir into the oatmeal ; 
dissolve soda in a little boiling water, pour into the milk and 
cream. Stir all together with the flour and fry immediately. For 
a family of three or four persons. 

OATMEAL CAKES 2. 

1 cup cooked oatmeal, Salt, 

1 cup milk, Very little soda, 

2 eggs. 
Mix and add sufficient flour to make a batter for frying. 

HOMINY GRIDDLE-CAKES. 
1 cup boiled hominy, 3 large tablespoons flour, 

1 cup warm milk, 1 tablespoon butter, 

2 eggs. 
Rub hominy, if cold and stiff, through a colander with the warm 
milk, add salt, melted butter, yolks of the eggs, well beaten, flour, 
and last the stiff whites; stir them in lightly just before baking. 
Bake on a hot griddle. 

INDIAN PANCAKES. . 

1 pint Indian meal, 1 teaspoon salt, 

% cup flour, 1 teaspoon soda, • 

4 eggs, 2 teaspoons cream of tartar. 

Put th,e meal into a pan, pour on boiling water until a little 
thinner than mush ; when cool add yolks of the eggs, the flour 
mixed with the cream of tartar and salt ; dissolve the soda in suf- 
ficient sweet milk or water to make a suitable batter ; beat whites 
well, and add just before baking. 

PANCAKES. 
1 cup flour, Pinch of salt, 

1 cup milk, 1 egg. 



GRIDDLE CAKES. 85 

Beat the egg thoroughly and add with salt to the milk; mix 
with flour till perfectly smooth ; let the batter be of the consistency 
of good cream. Have the pan very hot, grease well with butter or 
drippings. Pour in batter to cover the bottom. The perfection 
of pancakes is to have them as thin as possible and very tendei\ 
Use a cake turner in turning. When cooked pile on a hot plate. 
Sprinkle with sugar and cinnamon or spread with jelly. Roll up 
like a sheet of paper. Serve. 

POTATO PANCAKES. 

3 eggs, 1 tablespoon sour cream, 

Speck of soda, Salt to taste. 

Pare and grate raw potatoes to make about 1 quart of batter, 
add eggs, sour cream, soda and salt. They require rather a long 
time to bake, but are very nice. 

SQUASH PANCAKES. 
2 cups sifted squash, 2 eggs, 

1 cup milk, 1 teaspoon salt. 

Mix all well together, after beating the eggs, and add flour to 
make them turn easily on the griddle. 

RICE GRIDDLE-CAKES 1. 

1 quart sweet milk, 4 eggs, 

% cup rice, Pinch of salt, 

3 teaspoons baking powder. 
Boil the rice ; when cold, mix with the milk, 3 r olks of the eggs 
and flour sufficient to make a stiff batter ; beat whites to a froth, 
add baking powder, a little salt, and lastly, the whites ; bake on a 
griddle. A nice way to serve is to spread them while hot with 
butter and almost any kind of preserves or jelly ; roll up neatly, 
cut off the ends, sprinkle with sugar, and serve immediately. 

RICE GRIDDLE-CAKES 2. 

1 pint milk, 1 tablespoon melted butter, 

2 cups boiled rice, % teaspoon salt, 
2 cups flour, 3 eggs, 

2 teaspoons baking powder. 
Rub the rice through a sieve and add the well-beaten eggs, but- 
ter, milk, and flour with the baking powder. Mix thoroughly and 
bake immediately. If desired to raise the batter, omit the baking 



86 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

powder, add one-half cup yeast and let stand in a warm place 2 or 
3 hours before baking. 

MUSH. 

It is very desirable that some variety of grain mush should be 
served with every breakfast, for if properly cooked, no one article 
is capable of imparting greater nourishment or is more easily di- 
gested. One writer says in Great Britain children of all ranks are 
raised largely on an oatmeal diet, because it causes them to grow 
strong and healthful, and no better food can possibly be found for 
them. It is quite as needful for the student as for the laborer, 
and for the delicate lady as for her hard-working sister ; indeed, 
all classes would be greatty benefited by its use, and dyspepsia 
can be kept at a safe distance. It is very necessary, however, to 
have something of the kind, particularly where there are children. 
A most excellent way to make these mushes more palatable and 
better liked by the little folks is to serve them with stewed fruit of 
some kind. A very good kind consists of Zante currants, well 
cleaned and stewed gently with a little water, sugar, and the juice 
and grated yellow rind of a small lemon. A small saucer of them, 
with oatmeal porridge and milk, for breakfast, will be found an 
admirable regulator and alterative. Raisins are, also, most excel- 
lent; and, if pi-eferred, they can be stewed in the oatmeal or 
graham instead of being served separately. Comparatively few 
people know what a delicious sauce of preserve can be made by 
stewing down raisins with sugar. 

One very important point must be insisted upon, and the failure 
either to perceive or practice it accounts for the dislike many have 
for mushes. No grain can be thoroughly cooked in a short space 
of time. The following is a good rule for proportion, quantity 
and length of time in cooking. 

1 cup oatmeal, 3 cups water, 

1 cup cracked wheat, 4 cups water, 

1 cup hominy, 5 cups water, 

1 teaspoon salt. 

Cook 3 hours in double boiler or covered pail in a tightly cov- 
ered pot. 

Pick over and wash the grain, put in the salt, pour over the 



MUSH. 87 

boiling water, ana set on tne stove for 10 minutes. Stir occasion- 
ally with a fork — never use a spoon — to prevent sticking to the 
pail. Set into the boiler or pot of boiling water and cook 3 hours. 
Then take out, and if desired for breakfast the next morning cover 
and set away. It can be kept a longer time by pouring a little 
cold water over the top to exclude the air. When needed, pour off 
the water, and set in boiling water for 20 minutes ; take out, beat 
up with a fork, dry off in the oven 5 minutes and serve. A banana 
or baked apple, cut into a saucer of either oatmeal or wheat mush 
before adding cream and sugar, imparts a delicious flavor. In 
cooking the varieties of oats, wheat, etc. , partially prepared for the 
table, and generally sold by grocers, always add from 10 to 15 
minutes to the time allowed by the accompanying directions. Let 
this be emphasized. Cook mush always a long time, put boiling 
water on the grain, and never add more while cooking. The old- 
fashioned Hasty Pudding or Corn Meal Mush cooked but twent}' 
or thirty minutes is unfit to eat, being in a half raw condition, and 
liable to disturb an}* but the strongest digestion. In frying mush 
let the griddle become heated gradually, and grease with a piece 
of fat salt pork on the end of a fork. Cut the slices thin and fry 
brown on one side before turning, then brown the other. 

BAKED CORN MUSH. 

1 quart corn meal, 2 quarts boiling water, 

1 tablespoon salt. 

Let the corn meal be fresh. Wet it with 1 pint cold water. 

Add the salt to the boiling water, and stir in the meal gradually. 

If made in this way the mush will be smooth, and will bake evenly. 

Pour into a buttered pan and bake from 3 to 4 hours in a slow 

oven. It should have a rich brown surface when baked. Eat 

with cream and sugar or syrup. This recipe can be used for 

boiled mush by preparing according to directions and simmer 2 

hours. Cover closely, and stir with a wooden spoon occasionally 

to prevent scorching. If needed for a large family or to fry, 

make double the quantity. To prevent a crust from forming over 

cold mush, oil the top before setting it away. 

CORN MEAL MUSH. 

Put 4 quarts fresh water in a kettle to boil, salt to suit the taste ; 



88 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

when it begins to boil stir in 1|- quarts meal, letting it sift through 
the fingers slowly to prevent lumps, adding it a little faster at the 
last, until as thick as can be conveniently stirred with one hand ; 
set in the oven in the kettle, or take out into a pan, bake an hour, 
and it will be thoroughly cooked. It takes corn meal so long to 
cook thoroughly that it is very difficult to boil it until done with- 
out burning. Excellent for frying when cold. Stir with a hard 
wood paddle. The thorough cooking and baking in oven after- 
wards, takes away all the raw taste that mush is apt to have, and 
adds much to its sweetness and delicious flavor. 

GRAHAM MUSH 1. 

Let the flour run slowly through the fingers into a kettle of 
salted boiling water. Stir with a wooden paddle. Do not let it 
stop boiling or get too thick. Cook a few minutes after putting in 
the flour. It is much improved by removing from the kettle to a 
pan as soon as thorough^ mixed, and steaming 3 or 4 hours. It 
may also be eaten cold, or sliced and fried like corn mush. 

GRAHAM MUSH 2. 

Pare and stew fine 3 or 4 apples of ordinary size, adding water 
enough to make a thin sauce. When the apples are thus prepared, 
stir in graham flour until of the consistency of corn meal mush ; 
add salt, let it boil about half an hour, and serve with rich milk, 
or with cream and sugar. 

Plain graham mush without the apples, but with dates or stewed 
prunes stirred in, is also very nice for a change. Of course, in 
making this mush, the apple sauce can be prepared the day before, 
or any apple sauce on hand can be used, simply thinning it with 
hot water and letting it come to a boil before stirring in the 
graham. 

GRAHAM MUSH 3. 

Have a pint of milk boiling hot; salt, and stir graham flour 
quickly in until it is thick. Serve immediately with cream and 
sugar. 

OATMEAL MUSH. 
2 quarts boiling water, 1>£ teaspoons salt, 

\y 2 cups best oatmeal. 
To the boiling salted water add the oatmeal slowly, stirring it 



MUSH. 89 

with a fork to prevent settling in a mass at the bottom. Let it 
cook 3 hours without stirring. While stirring in meal put inner 
kettle directl}' on the stove and then set in the boiler. To use for 
breakfast, cook the previous day. Serve with cream and sugar. 
This is unsurpassed as a breakfast dish, especially for growing 
children, who need bone and muscle-producing food. To be 
wholesome it must be well cooked, and not the pasty, half cooked 
mass usuall} r served at boarding houses. There are a few persons 
with very delicate digestive powers, who should eat oatmeal only 
when thoroughly pearled, as the outer husks of the grain irritate 
the coatings of the stomach. In lieu of a custard kettle the mush 
may be made in a pan or small tin pail, and then steamed 2 hours. 

RICE. 

Wash 1 cup of rice in several waters, then add to 1 quart of 
boiling water. Cook in a double kettle from 20 to 30 minutes. 
Avoid stirring as it breaks the kernels ; add a little salt when first 
put on to cook. To steam rice, allow 3 times as much water or 
milk as rice. 

RICE SOUTHERN RECIPE. 

Wash rice in 3 waters. Rub dry on a clean cloth. Sprinkle 
the rice into a deep saucepan of boiling water. Let there be suf- 
ficient water for the rice to move around freely. Do not cover. 
Try the grains at 20 minutes to see if thoroughly cooked. If not, 
wait 2 or 3 minutes longer. Then take from the fire and turn 
into a colander. After draining dry, put into a saucepan with 
butter, in the proportion of one-half tablespoon to a cup of rice, 
also plent} r of salt. Let stand where it will just escape scorching. 
Leave it uncovered, but occasionally turn it up from the bottom 
with a fork and in about 40 minutes, if in a sufficiently hot place, 
it will be dry and every grain stand alone. If the rice be boiled 
too long, it will grow soft and mushy and will take longer to dry. 
In that case, when drained, let cold water be poured over, so as to 
pass through it. Then shake it dry, put in the saucepan with 
the butter and proceed according to directions given. 

PRIED MUSH 1. 

The day before wanted, fill a 2 quart pail, or pudding boiler, 



90 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

two-thirds full of boiling water, well salted ; stir in the meal and 
1 cup of wheat flour, making it rather stiff. Cover closely, and 
set in a kettle of boiling water to boil for 4 or 5 hours. Leave it 
in the pail to get cold, then turn out, and cut in slices to fry. Put 
a little fresh lard and salt in the frying pan, in the morning, and 
fry the slices to a nice brown on both sides. 

Another way to fry mush is to cut it in inch squares, roll in 
flour, and fry in hot lard like doughnuts or fritters. A wire fry- 
ing basket is a great convenience when frying in this way. Drain 
the fried squares, put into a covered dish, and serve hot, sprink- 
ling with sugar if liked. 

FRIED MUSH — 2. 

Have it made very stiff; place it in a long, deep dish to cool. 
When cold cut into thick slices ; dip in a beaten egg, then in flour, 
drop into a kettle of hot lard and fry like doughnuts. Oatmeal 
and wheat mushes can be fried in a similar manner and are very 
nice. 

FRUMENTY. 

Procure some whole wheat, new wheat if possible; boil it in 
milk till quite tender, or till it cracks open, serve with preserves, 
stewed fruit or sugar. 

BOILED WHOLE WHEAT. 

Very few know how good whole wheat is when boiled ; but it 
should be cooked the day before wanted, boiling slowly for 5 or 6 
hours, until thoroughly cooked. Of course, it is understood that 
it is to be washed first, like rice, in several waters. In the morn- 
ing, steam it over the teakettle, if there is no other kettle of water, 
for about one-half hour, or until hot, and serve alone, with stewed 
fruit or with milk or cream. 

TOAST. 

The very best conditions for making a good article of toast, are 
some good, stale bread, a bed of live coals, and a long-handled 
toasting fork. Failing the live coals, the next best thing is a very 
hot oven. Never try to toast bread by laying it on top of the 
stove and scorching it. The slices must be thin and evenly 
toasted to a rich brown on both sides, then sprinkled with hot 
water and spread with butter. Add salt if the butter is quite 



TOAST. 91 

fresh. Cream or milk can be added, if desired, but should al- 
ways be used hot. There are few palates that do not relish, and 
few stomachs that will not digest, toast properly prepared. 

BREAKFAST TOAST 1. 

Cut slices of a uniform thickness; move around over a brisk 
fire, to have all parts toasted alike ; keep only so near the coals 
that the pieces will be heated through when both sides are well 
browned. If the slightest point is blackened or charred, scrape it 
off, or it will spoil the flavor of the whole. If covered with an 
earthen bowl, it will keep both warm and moist. A clean towel or 
napkin will answer if it is to go at once to the table. Stale bread 
may be used for milk toast, but sweet, light bread, only a day old 
makes the best toast. 

BREAKFAST TOAST 2. 

Take slices of very dry bread, butter them well, lay in a deep 
dish and pour over enough hot water, slightly salted, to nearly 
cover them. Set in the oven until nicely browned. It makes a 
nice toast, with a different flavor from the ordinary. 

BETTERED TOAST. 

Although toast is commonly used, few know how to prepare it 
nicely. Take bread not too fresh, cut thin and evenly, trim off 
the crust ; first warm each side of the bread, then present the first 
side again to the fire until it takes on a rich, even, brown color ; 
treat the other side in the same way; butter and serve immedi- 
ately. The coals should be bright and hot. Toast property 
made is very digestible, because all the moisture is extracted, and 
the bread has become pure farina of wheat ; but when it is exposed 
to a hot fire and the outside charred, the inside remains as moist 
as ever, and butter applied to it while warm does not penetrate, 
but floats on the surface in the form of rancid oil. Or, beat 1 cup 
of butter and 3 tablespoons flour to a cream, pour over this 1£ 
pints boiling water and dust with pepper ; place over a kettle of 
boiling water 10 minutes, dip the toast into it, and serve hot. 
Or, dip each slice of toast in boiling hot water, slightly salted, 
spread with butter, cover and keep hot. 

CREAM TOAST. 

Heat sweet cream to the boiling point, setting it into boiling 



92 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

hot water to prevent scorching ; add a little salt. Let the slices 
of bread be toasted by the time the cream is ready, and put them 
into a deep dish covering each one with plent}' of cream and serve 
immediately, keeping the dish covered. 

CRACKER TOAST. 

1 quart milk, 2 tablespoons butter, 

1 teaspoon salt, 3 tablespoons flour or corn starch. 

Set the milk in hot water to boil ; when boiling add the butter 
cut into dice ; stir until melted ; add salt and flour stirred smooth 
in a little cold milk. Stir while it thickens, then set on the back 
of the stove to keep hot if the crackers are not ready. Toast 
them, and let stand a few minutes in boiling salted water. Lay 
them in a deep dish, and pour over each one plenty of the thick- 
ened milk. Milk toast is made b} r this recipe, substituting 
toasted bread for crackers. Serve covered. 

DRY TOAST. 

Use bread at least a day old. Have a plate heated to receive 
the toast. Cut the slices rather thick but even. See that the 
coals are hot and have the bread ready in a toaster or on a fork. 
Hold it as close as possible to the fire without burning. When 
nicely browned on one side, turn on the other. Put immediately 
on the hot plate, cover with a napkin and serve at once. Toast 
eaten cold is not so good or wholesome as that eaten hot. Do not 
make toast till the family are ready to eat it. Dry toast is the 
foundation of all other toasts and it is very important that it 
should be nicel}' prepared. 

FRENCH TOAST. 

Toast slices of stale bread ; dip first in sweet milk, then in well- 
beaten egg, and fry in hot fat. 

OYSTER TOAST. 

Scald a quart of oysters in their own liquor, but do not boil 
them, as boiling makes them tough and leathery. When scalding 
hot, take from the liquor and chop very fine, or until they form a 
paste. Add a little cream and season with pepper and salt, then 
spread them over slices of buttered toast, and set in the oven until 
heated through. 



TOAST. 93 

LEMON TOAST. 

1 pint milk, 2 tablespoons flour, 

2 eggs, 1 saltspoon salt. 

Make dry toast. Dip the slices in this batter, then fry quickly 
on a griddle. Put into a deep dish, wetting each slice with the 
following sauce, and pour the remainder over all. 

Sauce. 

3 eggs, whites, Lemon juice, 

X cup sugar, 1 cup boiling water. 

Beat the eggs thoroughly, add the sugar, juice of 1 lemon, and 
stir into the boiling water. Serve hot. 

MENNONITE TOAST. 

1 pint sweet milk, Pinch of salt, 

3 eggs. 

Beat the eggs well, add milk and salt ; cut slices an inch thick 

from a loaf of baker's bread, remove crust, dip slices into the eo-o-s 

and milk, fry like doughnuts in very hot lard or drippings, till a 

delicate brown, butter and sprinkle with powdered sugar and 

serve hot. 

queen's toast. 
Add to 1 cup of sweet milk 2 tablespoons sugar, a little salt and 
a well-beaten egg ; dip in this slices of bread ; if dry, let it soak a 
minute, and fry on a buttered griddle until light brown on each 
side. Serve, if desired, with mixed cinnamon and sugar. This is 
a good way to use dry bread. 

SCRAMBLED TOAST. 
1 gill milk, 1 teaspoon butter, 

Pepper, 1 saltspoon salt, 

Parsley, 8 or 10 eggs. 

Put butter in a frying pan on the stove, add milk, salt, pepper, 
and a tablespoon of minced parsley. When it boils, break into it 
the eggs. Beat, and stir them around until well mixed. Have 
some slices of toast dipped in hot milk, salted, peppered and but- 
tered, and laid on a flat dish. Spread the scrambled eggs on top 
of the toast, and serve at once. 



CAKE. 



THOUGH it is true of some cooks that, like poets, they are 
"born, not made," it is equally true that the great majority 
must learn how to cook. While admiring the genius that from as 
much sugar as liked, a piece of butter, a few eggs, a little cream or 
none at all, a pinch of salt, a dust of spice, just enough soda, all 
the flour needed, evolves the most delicious dishes, do not try to 
imitate. Ordinary mortals must be content to follow a given 
recipe exactly, provided it comes from a reliable source, and bring 
experience, common sense, education and observation to bear upon 
the making and baking of bread and cake ; in fact, use brains to 
direct in all departments of cooking, as well as in other work. 

General directions : Butter, eggs, and flour should all be fresh. 
Very salt butter should be cut into bits and freshened in cold 
water. The so-called cooking butter should never be used, as heat 
develops its bad qualities. 

Keep eggs in a cool, dry place. The whites and j'olks of eggs 
should be beaten separately, the yolks till they become frothy, and 
the whites so stiff that they cannot slip on the platter or dish when 
turned on its side. This requires more beating than to turn the 
plate upside down while the whites do not fall. Shake a little salt 
over the whites after separating them ; set in a very cool place, 
and the beating will be more easily and quickly done. Unused 
whites must not be beaten ; they will keep for several days if set 
in a cool place. Unused yolks will keep for several days if thor- 
oughly beaten and set in a cool place. The white or yolk of a 
medium-sized egg weighs 1 ounce, a fact that it is convenient to 
know, as sometimes the white or yolk of 1 or more eggs is wanted 
from several that have been put away together. Flour should al- 
wa}S be sifted before using, and it ought to be dry. In using 
new flour for either bread or cake-making, it can be ripened for use 
by placing the quantity intended for baking in the hot sun a few 
hours, or before the kitchen fire. More or less flour may be needed, 

94. 



CAKE. 95 

according to the climate, or the kind of flour used : new-process 
flour requires one-eighth less than other brands. 

Soda should be dissolved either in a little boiling water, or by 
beating 1 minute in the milk. Cream of tartar and baking powder 
should always be sifted into the flour. Great exactness should be 
used in their measurement. 

Kegarding milk, note this : Sweet milk makes a cake that cuts 
firmly, like pound cake ; sour milk makes a light, spongy cake ; 
baking powder, or cream of tartar and soda are used with sweet 
milk, and with sour milk only soda. It may be remarked in gen- 
eral, that anything that can be made with sour milk is better made 
with sour cream or buttermilk, using a trifle less shortening. 

Use powdered sugar for delicate cakes, and granulated or 'Cof- 
fee A" for all other kinds. These are the best and most econom- 
ical. Some advise brown sugar for dark cakes ; if used, buy the 
best in order that it may be as clean and dry as possible. Unless 
otherwise specified, the term "sugar" in the recipes of this book 
refers to granulated sugar. 

Wash raisins thoroughly in warm water, it will not injure them, 
and after draining, spread them out to dry. A large quantity can 
be thus cleaned and kept for use in a jar in a dry, cool place. To 
stone or seed them, pour hot water on, let stand a few minutes, 
and cut with scissors or a sharp knife. The process is quick, and 
the seeds come out clean. 

Citron should be cut in thin slices and short lengths. 

Wash currants in as many waters as necessary to thoroughly 
clean them. An easy wa} r is to put them into a coarse sieve, and 
set in a large pan of warm water ; stir constantly until the stems 
are broken off and have passed through the sieve, and the water is 
clean from dirt. Rub in a cloth and spread on platters to dry, 
stirring occasionally. 

Blanch almonds b} r pouring over boiling water, let stand a 
moment, drop in cold water, and slip off the loose skins. Pound 
with a little rose-water to prevent oiling. 

Select only fresh, soft figs for cooking. 

In grating lemons or oranges, use only the yellow part of the 
rind. 



96 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

Cocoanut, either dessicated or the nut, should be very fresh. It 
is unfit for use otherwise. To prepare cocoanut, cut a hole through 
the meat at one of the holes in the end, draw off the milk, pound 
the nut well on all sides to loosen the meat, crack, take out meat, 
and set the pieces in the heater or in a cool, open oven over night, 
or for a few hours, to dry, then grate ; if all is not used, sprinkle 
with sugar, after grating, and spread out in a cool, dry place, and 
it will keep for weeks. 

Spices are much purer if ground in a spice-mill at home, but 
care must be used to thoroughly powder them. 

Choose a time of day for making cake when least liable to 
interruptions. 

Be exact in weights, or measurements, and careful that no in- 
gredient is omitted. 

It is as important to attend well to the baking as the making of 
the cake ; much, even more, depends on it. Have a steady fire. 
Use coal or hard wood. Ordinarily it will not be necessary if the 
fire is rightly prepared to add fuel during baking, but if it should 
be needed in a wood stove, add wood in small quantities, for if the 
heat slackens the cake will be heavy. Most cake requires a mod- 
erate heat ; however, in baking fruit cake, which requires many 
hours, the oven must be slow or the cake will burn. When a 
sheet of white paper browns delicately in the oven at the end of 5 
minutes, the heat is right for sponge cake. Jelly and layer cakes 
require a hot oven in order to bake quickly. Careful attention is 
needed to prevent the edges from burning. Many test ovens in 
this way : If the hand can be held in from 20 to 35 seconds, or 
while counting 20 or 35, it is a quick oven ; from 35 to 45 seconds 
is moderate, and from 45 to 60 seconds is slow. Sixty seconds is 
a good oven for large fruit cakes. The light or heavy plate of the 
stove affects the temperature of the oven, and 20 seconds in one 
oven may indicate what would be 30 or 35 in another. Each cook 
must ascertain the qualities and capabilities of her own stove, in 
order to do good work. After putting cake into the oven do not 
open, at least for 10 minutes, except for layer cakes. Open as 
seldom as possible, and with some cakes, never. Be careful no 
draughts of cold air from open window or door strike in. Move 



CAKE. 97 

cake very carefully if necessary to turn, and shut the door gently 
in order not to jar it. The directions given for regulating the heat 
of the oven in baking bread apply to cake. Do not try a cake to 
see if it is done, until sure it is done. Allow about 30 minutes for 
each inch of thickness if in a quick oven, and more time in a slow 
one. Test with a broom splint or knitting-needle, and if the 
dough does not adhere, it is done. Settling away from the pan a 
little, and stopping its singing, are other indications that the cake 
is ready to leave the oven. When removed, set the cake, while in 
the pan, on an inverted sieve to cool ; this secures a free circula- 
tion of air all round it, and cools it evenly. Set awa}', always 
right side up. A tin chest or stone jar is best to keep it in. 
Coffee cake should be put away before it is cold, and so closely 
wrapped in a large napkin that the aroma will not be lost. 

Before beginning to mix the cake see that the fire is well under 
wa}\ Grease the tins thoroughly with a little lard or butter ; the 
latter has a tendenc}' to blacken the surface. Line the bottom 
with paper ; for fruit cake use from 4 to 6 la3 r ers of paper on the 
bottom, and 1 or more on the sides of the pan, if tin or iron is 
used. Butter the paper next the cake. It is preferable to use a 
large earthen pan for fruit cake, and the turk's-head pan, the one 
having a funnel in the center, is especially desirable for all cakes 
requiring a long or veiy uniform baking. 

Prepare all the ingredients for use. Have ready a large earthen 
mixing bowl, which is much better than tin. Sift salt, baking 
powder, or cream of tartar and spice into the flour. Take a little 
of the measured flour and sift lightly over the fruit to be used. 
Have the flour browned previously for dark cakes. Break and 
separate the eggs and beat the yolks. Rub the butter and sugar 
to a cream with a wooden or silver spoon, or until it looks very 
light and is of a creamy consistency. If the bowl is warmed this 
can be more easily done, but avoid melting the butter ; add the 
frothy yolks, and a little flour, beating steadily, then one-half of 
the milk, if called for, more flour, the remainder of the milk, and 
the flour. Beat thoroughly, that is, till well mixed, then cut and 
fold in the previously beaten whites, so that the}' shall be well in- 
corporated with the mixture. There are 4 processes used in mak- 



98 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

ing cakes or working with eggs, and they are indicated by their 
names, stirring, beating, cutting, and folding. The last two 
should always be used where the whites of the eggs are particularly 
necessary either in cakes, creams or jellies. Though spice is 
mixed with the flour, flavoring, such as extracts or juices, should 
be added just before baking. Add fruit after all other ingredients. 
If but little fruit is used, it can be dropped in layers while putting 
the mixture in the pans. The pans should be filled only two-thirds 
full, leaving room for the cake to rise. 

Cookies, gingersnaps, jumbles and wafers require a hot oven to 
bake quickly. If they become moist by keeping, heat well a few 
minutes. To cut cake while warm, let the knife be hot. 

Ordinary unused writing paper, the clean side of a letter, the 
blank paper from a newspaper publishing office, or smooth, light 
brown paper like manilla, not too hea\y, are all suitable for lining 
cake tins. 

The usual kitchen measurement for a cup is a one-half pint, and 
it will be so understood in this book, except when otherwise indi- 
cated. 

angel's food. 

11 eggs, whites, 1 cup flour, 

1}4 cups granulated sugar, 1 teaspoon cream of tartar, 
1 teaspoon flavoring. 

Sift the flour 4 times, then add the cream of tartar and sift 
again, but measure before putting in the cream of tartar ; sift the 
sugar and measure it ; beat the eggs to a stiff froth on a large plat- 
ter ; on the same platter add the sugar, then the flour, beating 
lightly all the time. Add the flavoring last, and do not stop beat- 
ing until put into the pan to bake. A pan with a tube in the cen- 
tre should be used. Line with paper, using no greese, and fill not 
more than three-fourths full. Bake in a moderate oven about 40 
minutes. Test with a broom splint and if too soft let remain a 
few minutes longer. Do not open oven till cake has been in 15 
minutes. When done, turn upside down to cool. Take from pan 
when cold, and ice the bottom if desired. 



CAKE. 99 

ALMOND, HICKORY NUT OR COCOANUT CAKE. 

1 pound sugar, 1 teaspoon soda, 

1 pound flour, % teaspoon salt, 

% pound butter, 1 grated cocoanut, or 

4 eggs, 1 pint hickory nuts, or 

1 cup sour cream, 1 pint blanched almonds. 

Mix all thoroughly, grate in the white part of a cocoanut, or stir 
in 1 pint of hickory nuts, or blanched almonds pounded. 

BEAUTIFUL CAKE. 

6 eggs, whites, 2 cups sugar, 

1 cup butter, 3 cups flour, 

1 cup sweet milk, 2 teaspoons baking powder, 

Flavor with rose or almond. 

BLACK CAKE — 1. 

12 eggs, 1 pound citron, 

1 pound sugar, %. nutmeg, 

1 pound flour, 1 teaspoon mace, 

1 pound butter, 1 tablespoon cinnamon, 

2 pounds raisins, 2 tablespoons coffee, 

2 pounds currants, 2 tablespoons rose-water, 

% pound finely chopped fresh figs. 

Rub the butter and sugar together, add yolks of the eggs, part 
of the flour, the spice and whites of the eggs well beaten ; then 
add remainder of the flour, the coffee, rose-water, and fruit, ex- 
cepting citron ; mix thoroughly. Line sides and bottom of an 8 
quart pan with buttered paper, putting 3 layers of paper on the bot- 
tom ; put in the mixture adding the sliced citron in alternate lay- 
ers. Bake 4 or 5 hours in a slow oven. 

BLACK CAKE — 2. 

6 eggs, 1 teaspoon mace, 

K cup butter, 1 teaspoon cloves, 

2 cups brown sugar, 2 pounds raisins, 

3 cups flour, browned, 2 pounds currants, 
2 cups sweet milk, y 2 pound citron, 

2 tablespoons molasses, 1 teaspoon soda, 
1 tablespoon cinnamon, 2 teaspoons cream of tartar. 
Bake 3 hours. 



100 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

BREAD CAKE — 1. 

3 cups light yeast, sponge, 3 eggs, 

2 cups sugar, 2 teaspoons cinnamon, 

1 cup butter, Nutmeg to taste. 

Fruit as desired. 

Mix all together until smooth as pound cake. Add fruit, and 
let rise in the pans in which it is baked. The oven should be 
about right for bread. This is easily made, and is quite as nice 
as common loaf cake. 

BREAD CAKE 2. 

2 cups light bread dough, % teaspoon soda, 

1/4 cups sugar, 1 tablespoon cinnamon, 

)4 cup butter, 1 cup raisins, stoned and chopped, 

3 tablespoons sour milk, X small cup flour, 

Nutmeg to taste. 
Stir all well together, adding the fruit last, let rise, and bake in 
a moderate oven. 

bride's cake. 

12 eggs, whites, 4 small cups flour, 

3 cups sugar, % cup cornstarch, 

1 small cup butter, 2 teaspoons baking powder, 

1 cup sweet milk, Lemon to taste. 

Adding a cup of citron sliced thin and dusted with flour, makes 
a beautiful citron cake. 

BUPORD CAKE. 

1 cup butter, 1 cup sour milk, 

2 cups sugar, 1 teaspoon soda, 

4 cups sifted flour, 5 eggs. 

1 pound seeded raisins. 

Beat the butter and sugar to a cream, add the yolks and milk, 
and stir in the flour with soda well mixed through it, add the 
whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff froth, and lastly the raisins 
dredged with a little flour ; bake \\ hours. Use coffee cups to 
measure. This makes a cake for a 6 quart pan. 

CARAMEL CAKE. 
7 eggs, whites, 1% cups flour, 

1 cup butter, , 1 cup cornstarch, 

2 cups sugar, 1 scant cup milk, 

3 teaspoons baking powder. 



CAKE: 101 

Caramel. 

% pound brown sugar, J£ cup milk, 

}4 pound chocolate, scant, Butter size of an egg, 

2 teaspoons vanilla. 

Mix thoroughly, cook till thick, adding the vanilla after it is 
taken from the fire, spread on the cake and set in the oven to dry. 

CHOCOLATE CAKE — 1. 

7 eggs, yolks, 1 cup sweet milk, 

1 cup butter, 4 cups flour, 

3 cups brown sugar, 3 teaspoons baking powder, 

9 tablespoons Baker's chocolate. 

This may be baked as a layer cake, making a white cake of the 
whites of the eggs, baking in layers, and putting them together 
with frosting, alternating the layers. 

CHOCOLATE CAKE 2. 

2 cups sugar, 2% cups flour, 

1 cup butter, 5 eggs, reserving 3 whites, 

1 cup sweet milk, 2 teaspoons baking powder, 

This makes 2 flat cakes. 

Icing. 

3 eggs, whites, 6 tablespoons grated chocolate, 
\}4 cups powdered sugar, 2 teaspoons vanilla. 

MARBLE CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

White part. 

1 cup sugar, 2 cups flour, large, 

X cup milk, 4 eggs, whites, 

%. cup butter, 2 teaspoons baking powder, 

Stir the sugar and butter to a cream, add the milk slowly, the 
flour sifted thoroughly with the baking powder, and last the whites 
of the eggs beaten stiff. 

Dark part. 

% cups sugar, 1% cups flour, 

Yz cup butter, small, 4 eggs, yolks, 

M cup milk, \y 2 teaspoons baking powder, 

7 tablespoons grated chocolate. 
Put in pans alternately 1 large spoonful of the white and dark. 



102 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

CINCINNATI CAKE. 

2 cups brown sugar, 1 pint boiling water, 

7 cups sifted flour, 1 tablespoon cinnamon, 

1 cup molasses, 1 tablespoon cloves, 

1 pound raisins, 1 teaspoon nutmeg, 

\i pound citron, 3 teaspoons baking powder 

1 pound fat salt pork, 2 tablespoons coffee, 

)4 teaspoon soda. 

Take the rind and all bits of lean meat from the pork, chop fine, 
pour the boiling water over it, let stand till nearly cold, and add 
the other ingredients ; mix well. Bake slowly 2£ hours. 

COCOANUT CAKE. 

1 cup butter, 4 eggs, 

3 cups sugar, 1 teaspoon soda, 

1 cup sweet milk, 2 teaspoons cream of tartar, 
4% cups flour, 1 grated cocoanut. 

COFFEE CAKE — 1. 

2 cups brown sugar, 1 pound currants, 
1 cup butter, 4 cups flour, 

1 cup molasses, 2 teaspoons cinnamon, 

1 cup strong coffee, * 2 teaspoons cloves, 

4 eggs, Nutmeg to taste, 
1 pound raisins, 1 teaspoon soda. 

COFFEE CAKE 2. 

1 cup brown sugar, 1 egg, or yolks of 2, 

1 cup molasses, 2 pounds of raisins, 

yi cup butter, % pound citron, 

1 cup strong coffee, 1 heaping teaspoon soda, 

4 cups flour, 1 tablespoon cinnamon. 

1 teaspoon cloves. 

Beat the butter and sugar together, add the egg, spices, molas- 
ses, and coffee, then the flour, and the fruit dredged with the flour. 
Bake 1 hour in a moderate oven, or make in two small loaves 
which will bake in a short time. This may be made without the 
egg- 

CREAM CAKE 1. 

1 cup sugar, 2 eggs, 

1 cup sour cream, 1 teaspoon soda, 

2 cups flour, yi teaspoon salt. 



CAKE. 1 03 

CREAM CAKE — 2. 

1 egg, K teaspoon soda, 

1 cup sugar, scant, Pinch of salt, 

\% cups flour, Thin sour cream. 

Break the egg into a cup, fill the cup with sour cream, beat all 
together and bake. 

CREAM CAKE — 3. » 

1 cup sugar, 1 teaspoon baking powder, 

2 cups flour, Pinch of salt, 
2 eggs, Sweet cream. 

Break the egg into a coffee cup, fill with sweet cream, beat all 
together quickly and bake. May be baked as layer cake, and put 
together with jelly or icing. 

CREAM CAKES. 
1 cup sweet cream, 3 eggs, 

1 cup white sugar, H teaspoon salt, 

1 cup flour, heaping, 1 teaspoon baking powder, 

Flavor. 
Beat all together 5 minutes, and bake in patty-pans or gem pans. 

CUP CAKE OLD RULE. 

1 cup butter, 3 cups flour, 

2 cups sugar, 4 eggs, 

Flavor to taste. 
Cream the butter and sugar well together, add the well-beaten 
yolks, beat the whites stiff, and mix them in alternately with the 
well-sifted flour. Bake in a moderate oven. 

CUP CAKE — MODERN. 

1 cup butter, 4 eggs, 

2 cups sugar, 1 cup milk, 

3 cups flour, 2 teaspoons baking powder, 

Flavor to taste. 

DELICATE CAKE 1. 

3 cups flour, "% cup butter, 

2 cups sugar, 7 eggs, whites, 

1 cup milk, 2 teaspoons baking powder, 

Citron or flavoring. 
Cream well the butter and sugar, sift the baking powder into 
the flour, and add alternately with the milk to the cream. Cut 
and fold the well-beaten whites into the mixture. Add the strips 
of citron in layers as the batter is poured into the pans. If pre- 



104 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

ferred use almond, or other flavoring. This is similar to pound 
cake. Bake from 45 minutes to 1 hour in a very slow oven. 

DELICATE CAKE — 2. 
12 eggs, whites, 1 pound flour, 

% pound butter, 2 tablespoons milk, 

% pound sugar, 2 teaspoons baking powder, 

Flavor with juice of lemon. 
Work the butter and sugar to a cream, add the milk ; beat the 
whites to a stiff froth, sift the baking powder into the flour, and 
add alternately, to the mixture. This may be used as layer cake 
with filling as follows : 

3 eggs, yolks, 1 cup sugar, 

% cup butter, 2 lemons. 

Use the grated rind and juice of the lemons, mix # all together, 
and cook till thick as sponge, stirring all the time. 

HARTFORD ELECTION CAKE. 
2 pounds sugar, 1 quart milk, 

2 pounds butter, 2 cups yeast, 

2 pounds raisins, % ounce nutmeg, 
% pound citron, 4 eggs, 

5 pounds dried and sifted flour. 
Beat the butter and half the sugar to a cream and mix very fine 
in the flour, then add half the milk, bloodwarm in summer and hot 
in winter, but not hot enough to scald the yeast. Add the yeast, 
beating thoroughly, the eggs, and the remainder of the milk. 
Beat well. Let rise over night and in the morning beat again, and 
add the rest of the sugar. Let stand 5 or 6 hours or until very 
light. Add the fruit, pour into the pans, and let rise three-quarters 
of an hour. Bake 1 hour. 

EGGLESS CAKE. 
\}4 cups sugar, 1 teaspoon soda, 

1 cup sour milk, y 2 teaspoon cinnamon, 

3 cups sifted flour, % teaspoon nutmeg, 
% cup butter, 1 cup chopped raisins. 

ELECTION CAKE. 
5 pounds sifted flour, 1 cup yeast, 

2 pounds butter, 5 eggs, 

2 pounds sugar, 1 quart sweet milk, 

2 pounds raisins, 1 gill coffee, 

1 pound currants, 1 gill rose-water, 

y 2 pound citron, % ounce nutmeg. 



CAKE. 105 

Rub the butter and flour together very fine, add half the sugar, 
then the yeast and half the milk, hot in winter, bloodwarm in sum- 
mer, the eggs, then the remainder of the milk ; beat well and let 
rise in a warm place all night ; in the morning beat a long time, 
adding the coffee, rose-water, sugar, spice, and fruit well floured, 
and allow to rise very light, after which put in cake pans and let 
rise 10 or 15 minutes ; have the oven about as hot as for bread. 
This cake will keep any length of time. For raised cakes use 
potato j^east if fresh made ; it is always a perfect success. 

ENGLISH CHRISTMAS CAKE. 
3 eggs, 1 pound sugar, 

1 pound butter, 1 pound currants, 

2 pounds flour, X A pint milk, 

5 small teaspoons baking powder. 
Beat the butter to a cream, add the well-beaten eggs, then the 
other ingredients, putting the flour in last. This is a veiy nice 
cake when first baked, but it soon becomes dry. 

EVERLASTING CAKE. 
6 eggs, IX pints sifted flour, 

% pint white sugar, % pound sliced citron, 

\% pints blanched almonds. 
Beat the yolks and sugar together, add the almonds and citron, 
then the whipped whites and flour ; pour 1^- inches thick in well- 
greased dripping pans, bake in a quick oven, and, when done, 
cut slices 1 inch thick across the cake, turn each slice over on its 
side, return to oven and bake a short time. When cold place 
in a tin box. These will keep a year and a half or more, and are 
nice to have in store. 

CHOICE PIG CAKE. 
1 large cup butter, 3 pints flour, 

2)4 cups sugar, 3 teaspoons baking powder, 

1 cup'sweet milk, 16 eggs, whites, 

\% pounds figs cut in strips and floured well. 
APPLE FRUIT CAKE. 

2 eggs, 3>£ cups flour, 

1 cup butter, 2 cups raisins, 

2 cups sugar, 3 cups dried apples, 
1 cup milk, 2 cups molasses, 

1 teaspoon soda. 



106 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

Soak the dried apples over night, then chop fine, and stew 2 
hours in the molasses. Beat the butter and sugar to a cream, add 
the milk in which the soda is dissolved, the beaten eggs, flour, and 
lastly the raisins and apples. Stir well, pour into pans and bake 
1£ hours. 

EXCELLENT FRUIT CAKE. 
10 eggs, l l / 2 pounds raisins, 

1 pound butter, . IK pounds currants, 

1 pound sugar, % pound citron, 

IK pounds flour, 2 tablespoons lemon, 

2 teaspoons yeast powder. 
Mix one-fourth pound of the flour in the fruit. 

HICKORY NUT FRUIT CAKE. 

1 cup brown sugar, 2 teaspoons soda, 

2 cups fresh butter, 5 teaspoons cream tartar, 
1 cup warm milk, sweet, 2 tablespoons vanilla, 

9 cups sifted flour, 2 cups English currants, 

8 eggs beaten separately, 5 cups raisins, 

3 cups hickory nut kernels. 

This will make three loaves. Mix the cream of tartar in the flour, 
stir the currants into the dough, and put the nuts and raisins in al- 
ternate layers through the dough. 

MINNESOTA FRUIT CAKE. 

3 eggs, 1 beaping cup stoned raisins, 
\y 2 cups brown sugar, 1 cup currants, 

Z X A cups flour, 1 teaspoon soda, 

1 cup butter, 1 teaspoon cinnamon, 

K cup molasses, 1 teaspoon cloves, 

1 cup sour milk, 1 teaspoon allspice. 

The fruit may be stewed slowly for 20 minutes in just water 
enough to keep it from burning. Drain the liquid all off, and 
dredge the fruit with flour. The liquid may be used in the cake. 
When the fruit is prepared in this way a little more flour is needed. 

POOR MAN'S FRUIT CAKE. 

3 eggs, 1 cup chopped raisins, 

V/i cups brown sugar. % cup blackberry jam, 

2 cups flour, 3 tablespoons sour milk, 
1 cup butter, X teaspoon soda. 

This is excellent and economical. 



CAKE. 107 

SCOTCH FRUIT CAKE. 

1 cup butter, 9 eggs, 

2 cups white sugar, 1 pound raisins, 

4 cups sifted flour, % pound currants, 

% cup sour milk, % pound citron, 

}i teaspoon soda, 1 teaspoon lemon, 

1 teaspoon vanilla. 

Cream the butter and sugar, add the milk gradually, the beaten 
yolks, and lastty, while stirring in the flour, the whites well 
whipped and the flavoring. Have the raisins stoned and chopped, 
the currants washed and dried, and the citron sliced thin ; dredge 
all lightly with flour ; put the cake and fruit in the pans in alter- 
nate layers, having the first and last layers of cake. Bake in a 
moderate oven 2 hours. Tested by many and has never failed. 

THANKSGIVING FRUIT CAKE. 

6 pounds flour, 1 quart sweet milk, large, 

3 pounds butter, 1 pint yeast, 
33^ pounds sugar, 1 ounce mace, 

4 pounds raisins, 1 gill coffee, 

% pound citron, 1 gill rose-water, 

6 eggs, 1 teaspoon soda, small. 

After tea, take all the flour except a little for dredging the rais- 
ins, a small piece of the butter, the yeast, and milk, and mix like 
biscuit ; then mix the butter and sugar, and at nine o'clock in the 
evening, if sufficiently light, put one-third the butter and sugar 
into the dough ; at twelve add another third, and very early in the 
morning the remainder ; about eleven o'clock, if light enough, be- 
gin kneading, and continue for 1 hour, adding meanwhile all the 
other ingredients, the soda last. This will make seven loaves. 

WHITE FRUIT CAKE. 

1 cup butter, 1 pound figs, 

2 cups sugar, 1 pound dates, 

1 cup sweet milk, 1 pound almonds, 

214 cups flour, i^ pound citron, 

1 pound raisins, 7 eggs, whites, 

2 teaspoons baking powder. 

Cut the fruit fine and dredge with flour ; beat the eggs to a foam; 
mix thoroughly, and bake very slowly. 



108 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

GOLD CAKE. 

% cap butter, 3 cups flour, 

% cup sweet milk, 4 eggs, yolks, 

2 cups sugar, 2 teaspoons bakingpowder, 

Flavoring. 
For the silver cake use the same recipe, taking whites instead 
of yolks of eggs. 

For marble cake make the light part the same ; in the dark part 
use 2 cups brown sugar instead of white, and some spices. 

groom's cake. 
10 eggs, 1 .pound flour, 

1 pound butter, 1 pound stoned raisins, 

1 pound white sugar, 14 pound sliced citron, 

2 pounds blanched almonds, chopped fine. 
Beat the butter to a cream, add the sugar gradually, then the 
well-beaten } ? olks ; stir all till very light, add the almonds ; beat 
whites stiff and add gently with the flour ; take a little more flour 
and sprinkle over the rafsins and citron, then put in the cake pan, 
first a layer of cake batter, then a layer of raisins and citron, then 
cake, and so on till all is used, finishing off with a layer of cake. 
Bake in a moderate oven 2 hours. 

HARD MONEY CAKE. 

Gold part. 
8 eggs, yolks, 1 cup sour milk, 

1 cup butter, scant, 1 teaspoon soda, 

2 cups sugar, 1 tablespoon cornstarch, 

4 cups flour, Flavor with lemon or vanila. 

Silver part. 

8e ggs, whites, 1 cup sour milk, 

1 cup butter, 1 teaspoon soda, 

2 cups sugar, 1 tablespoon cornstarch, 

4 cups flour, scant, Flavor with almond or peach. 

Put in pans alternately, 1 spoonful of gold and 1 Of silver. 

HICKORY NUT CAKE 1. 

3 eggs, 1 cup milk, 

1 cup sugar, % cup butter, 

3 cups flour, 1 cup nut kernels, chopped, 

2 teaspoons baking powder. 
Tried and not found wanting. 



CAKE. 



109 



HICKORY NUT CAKE — 2. 
5 e gg S 2 cups hickory nuts, 

2 cups sugar, 3 cups flour, 

1 cup butter, 3 teaspoons baking powder, 

1 cup milk, 1 teaspoon lemon. 

Use more flour if necessary ; flour the nuts well ; bake in 2 flat 
loaves, and frost with boiled icing ; cut in squares. Each cake 
will cut into twenty-four good-sized pieces. 

HICKORY NUT CAKE — 3. 

7 eggs, whites, 3 cups flour, 

2 eggs, yolks, 1 cup sweet milk, 

1 cup butter, 1 teaspoon soda, 

2 cups sugar, 2 teaspoons cream of tartar 

1 pint hickory nuts. 

Roll the nut meats, sprinkle with flour, beat the whites to a stiff 
froth. This is rich and excellent. 

IMPERIAL CAKE. 

9 eg g S) X A pound raisins, 

1 pound sugar, X pound citron, 

1 pound butter, 1 lemon, juice and rind, 

1 pound flour, 1& pounds almonds. 

Beat the butter and sugar to a cream, beat the yolks light, add 
the sugar and butter, then the whites beaten to a stiff froth, and 
the flour, reserving a part for the fruit, and lastly, the nuts 
shelled, blanched, cut fine and mixed with fruit and the rest of the 
flour. This is very delicious and will keep for months. 

INDIAN POUND CAKE. 

% pound sugar, 8 eggs, 

y 2 pound butter, 4 tablespoons rose-water, 

% pound flour, 1 teaspoon cinnamon, 

9 ounces Indian meal, 1 grated nutmeg. 

Mix the flour and Indian meal together. Stir butter and sugar 
to a cream ; beat the eggs light and add to it, then the flour ; add the 
spices and rose-water, beat well. Line pan with paper well but 
tered and pour in the mixture, or bake it in an earthen mould in a 
moderate oven. 



110 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

lady's CAKE. 
y 2 cup butter, 4 eggs, whites, 

\y 2 cups sugar, y 2 teaspoon soda, 

2 cups flour, 1 teaspoon cream of tartar, 

1 cup milk, scant, Flavor with peach or almond. 

YELLOW LADY'S CAKE. 
1 cup sugar, 4 eggs, yolks, 

% cup butter, 1 teaspoon soda, 

IX cups flour, 2 teaspoons cream of tartar, 

y 2 cup milk, 1 teaspoon vanilla. 

LEMON CAKE. 
1 pound flour, % pound butter, 

1 pound sugar, 7 eggs, 

2 lemons, grated rind and juice. 

The sugar, butter, and yolks of eggs must be beaten a long time, 
adding, by degrees, the flour, and the whites of eggs last. One 
and a half tumblers of sliced citron may be added. This keeps 
well. 

LINCOLN CAKE. 
% pound butter, 2 cups sour cream or milk, 

1 pound sugar, 1 grated nutmeg, 

1 pound flour, 1 teaspoon cinnamon, 
% pound citron, 1 teaspoon soda, 

6 eggs, 1 "tablespoon rose-water. 

Dissolve the soda in hot water, and stir into the sour cream just 
before adding the latter to the cake. Cream the butter and sugar, 
add yolks of the eggs well beaten, then the cream, spice, flour, 
rose-water, the citron chopped fine, and the beaten whites. Stir 
well and bake in loaf. 

AUNT HETTIE'S LOAF CAKE. 

2 cups sugar, 1 pound raisins, 

1 cup butter, 2 teaspoons cream'of tartar, 

5 cups flour, 1 teaspoon soda, 

1 cup sweet milk, 4 tablespoons water, 

3 eggs, 1 nutmeg. 

Sift the cream of tartar into the flour, beat the butter and sugar 
to a cream, add the beaten } T olks, and 3 cups of the flour, then the 
milk, and mix thoroughly ; stir in the well-beaten whites and the 
rest of the flour alternately, adding the fruit, nutmeg and soda 
and water last. This makes two loaves, and is excellent. 



CAKE. HI 

COCOANUT LOAF CAKE. 
% pound "A" sugar, 2 gills milk, 
14 pound flour, 1% teaspoons baking powder, 

M pound butter, 2 cups grated coeoanut, 

5 eggs, 1 lemon, grated rind and juice. 

Sift the baking powder into the flour ; mix the butter and sugar 
to a cream, add the yolks ; beat very light ; stir in the milk, flour 
and lemon, then the coeoanut, beating thoroughly, and lastly the 
whites beaten stiff. Bake in 2 loaves in a moderate oven from 45 
minutes to 1 hour. When done, sprinkle grated coeoanut and 
powdered sugar over them while hot. Must be handled very care 
fully. 

OLD-FASHIONED LOAF CAKE. 

3 eggs, Xpint molasses, 

3 pounds flour, X pint yeast, 

\}4 pounds butter, 5 gills milk, 

\% pounds sugar, 1 teaspoon soda, 

2 pounds raisins, 2 teaspoons cinnamon, 

2 teaspoons nutmeg. 

Scald the milk, cool to blood-heat, add the j^east, and the flour 
to which the butter and sugar have been added, mix together and 
let rise. The sponge may be set at night, and the other ingredi- 
ents added in the morning. Let stand till light and put into bak- 
ing pans. Let rise again and bake in a moderate oven. This rec- 
ipe makes three large loaves and is a standard, economical loaf 
cake. 

MARBLE CAKE. 

White part. 

7 eggs, whites, 1 cup butter, 

3 cups sugar, 1 cup sour milk, 

4 cups flour, sifted and heaping, 1 teaspoon soda, 

Flavor to taste. 

Dark part. 

7 eggs, yolks, 1 cup sour milk, 

3 cups brown sugar, 1 tablespoon cinnamon, 
1 cup butter, 1 tablespoon allspice, 

4 cups flour, sifted and heaping, 1 tablespoon cloves. 

1 teaspoon soda. 
Bake 1$ hours. Use coffee cups to measure. This will make 
one large and one medium cake. The white and dark parts are 



112 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

alternated, either by putting in a spoonful of white, then of dark 
or a layer of white and then of dark part, being careful that the 
cake may be nicely marbleized. 

ONE-EGG CAKE — 1. 
1 cup butter, 1 cup sweet milk, 

\% cups sugar, 1 egg, 

3 cups flour, 1 teaspoon soda, 

1 cup raisins, stoned and chopped, 2 teaspoons cream of tartar. 

ONE-EGG CAKE — 2. 

1 cup sugar, 1 egg, 

1 pint flour, 1 teaspoon soda, 

Butter, size of an egg, 2 teaspoons cream of tartar, 

1 cup milk. 

Can be baked as loaf, or layer cake. 

ORANGE CAKE. 

4 eggs, 1 cup water, 

2 cups sugar, 3 cups flour, 

l / 2 cup butter, 2 teaspoons baking powder, 

1 orange, grated rind and pulp. 
Keserve 2 of the whites for frosting the top. 

PLAIN CAKE. 

3 eggs, whites, >£ cup sweet milk, 
1 cup sugar, \ X A cups flour, 

% cup butter, _ 2 teaspoons baking powder. 

PLUM CAKE. 
12 eggs, . 2 pounds raisins, 

1 pound flour, 2 pounds currants, 

1 pound sweet butter, 1 pound citron, 

1 pound sugar, Spice to taste. 

Mix the sugar and butter as for pound cake, beat the eggs very 
light. Put in the fruit last ; it should be well floured, and if nec- 
essary add more flour after the fruit is in. Put a large layer of 
mixture into the pan, then some slices of citron, then mixture, and 
so on until full. One-fourth pound of blanched almonds and three 
or four chopped fine are an improvement. Bake 4 or 5 hours. 

CITRON POUND CAKE. 
1 pound sugar, % pound butter, 

1 pound flour, \% pounds citron, finely shredded, 

8 large or 10 small eggs. 



CAKE. 113 

Cream the butter and sugar; add the yolks, flour, and well- 
whipped whites; put a layer of batter in cake pan and sprinkle 
thickly with citron, then another la} T er of batter, etc. , till pan is 
filled. Bake slowly 1£ to 2 hours. 

POUND CAKE. 
lYz cups butter, 1>2 pints flour, 

2 cups sugar, 1 teaspoon baking powder, 

7 eggs, Yz teaspoon vanilla. 

Cream the butter and sugar, add 3 of the eggs, 1 at a time, ana 
the rest, 2 at a time, beating 5 minutes between each addition. 
Sift the flour and baking powder together and add to the other in- 
gredients. Bake 50 minutes in steady oven. 

PYRAMID POUND CAKE. 
1 pound sugar, 1 pound flour, 

1 pound butter, 10 eggs. 

Bake in a dripping pan 1 inch in thickness ; cut when cold into 
pieces 3£ inches long by 2 wide, and frost top and sides ; form 
on the cakestand in pyramid before the icing is quite dry by lay- 
ing, first in a circle, 5 pieces with a space between them ; over the 
spaces between these, lay 5 other pieces, gradually drawing in the 
column and crowning the top with a bouquet of flowers. 

WHITE POUND CAKE. 
1 pound sugar, 1 pound butter, 

1 pound flour, 16 eggs, whites, 

1 teaspoon baking powder. 
Put in cool oven with gradual increase of heat. 

RICE cake — 1. 
1 pound sugar, 9 eggs, 

1 pound ground rice, Yz teaspoon salt, 

Yz pound butter, Rose-water to taste. 

Beat the butter and sugar together, add the rose-water, salt and 
eggs, lastly the rice. Bake in shallow pans. 

rice cake — 2. 
Yz pound sugar, 6 eggs, 

Yz pound rice flour, 1 teaspoon vanilla. 

Break the eggs on the flour and sugar, whip for one-half hour 
with the back of a dinner knife ; bake 20 minutes in a moderate 
oven. 



114 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

RICE SPONGE CAKE. 
1 cup white sugar, 5 eggs, 

1 cup rice flour, Flavor to taste. 

Beat all together 20 minutes, bake one-half hour in a moderate 
oven. 

SCOTCH CAKE. 

2 cups butter, 4 cups flour, 
1 cup sugar, 2 eggs. 

PHIL SHERIDAN CAKE. 

16 eggs, whites, 1 cup butter, 

4 cups powdered sugar, l'/ 2 cups sweet milk, 

5 cups sifted flour, 1 teaspoon soda, 

2 teaspoons cream of tartar. 

Dissolve the soda in the milk ; stir the sugar and butter to a 
cream, add whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff froth, the flour, 
then the milk and soda ; stir several minutes, and add the cream 
of tartar and flavoring. This makes a large cake. 

SNOW CAKE 1. 

Yz cup butter, % cup sweet milk, 

1 cup sugar, 4 eggs, whites, 

1/4 cups flour, 1 teaspoon baking powder, 

Flavor with lemon. 

SNOW CAKE 2. 

10 eggs, whites, 1 cup flour, 

1J£ cups powdered sugar, 1 teaspoon cream of tartar, 
Flavor to taste. 

Beat the whites to a stiff froth, sift the sugar lightly over them, 
and stir well, add the flour and cream of tartar sifted together, 
and flavor. 

SNOWBALL CAKE. 

1 cup white sugar, 1 teaspoon baking powder, 

% cup butter, Flour, ■ 

% cup sweet milk, Flavor with lemon, 

3 eggs, whites, A little citron sliced very thin. 
Cream the butter and sugar, add the milk gradualry, stirring 

well, then the whites, beaten stiff ; sift the baking powder into 1 
cup of flour and stir in slowly, then the citron and flavoring, and 
enough more flour to make nearly as stiff as plain cake. Bake in 
1 loaf, 



CAKE. 115 



SODA CAKE. 



i cup sugar, 1 pint flour, 

1 cup milk, j 1 teaspoon soda, 

2 eggs, I 2 teaspoons cream of tartar, or 
Butter, size of an egg, 2 teaspoons baking powder, 

Lemon to taste. 

SPICE CAKE — 1. 

4 coffee cups flour, 3 pounds seedless raisins, 

2% coffee cups sugar, 1 pound butter, 

2 coffee cups sweet milk, 1>2 pounds citron, 

6 eggs, 3 teaspoons cinnamon, 

3 teaspoons baking powder, 2 teaspoons mace. 

SPICE CAKE — 2. 

2 eggs, h}4 cups flour, 

1 cup sugar, 1. teaspoon ginger, 

1 cup molasses, 1 teaspoon cinnamon, 

1 cup butter, 1 teaspoon cloves, 

1 cup sweet milk, 1 teaspoon soda, 

\Yz cups raisins, Pinch of salt, 

1% cups currants, Flavor with lemon, 
Some finely chopped citron. 

The raisins should be stoned, and both raisins and currants 
dredged with flour before being added to the cake. 

BEST SPONGE CAKE. 

6 fresh eggs, 2 teaspoons baking powder, 

3 teacups granulated sugar, % teaspoon salt, 

4 teacups flour, 1 teaspoon lemon, or 

1 teacup cold water, 1 lemon, juice, and \i the rind. 

Beat the eggs very light, add the sugar and beat until white and 
foamy ; then add 2 cups sifted flour and mix well ; stir in the cold 
water and the other 2 cups of flour in which the baking powder 
and salt are sifted. Add the flavoring last and mix thoroughly. 

FIVE MINUTE SPONGE CAKE. 

3 eggs, 3 tablespoons water, 

1 cup sugar, 1 teaspoon baking powder, 

1 cup flour, Vanilla or lemon. 

OLD-FASHIONED SPONGE CAKE. 

12 eggs, Weight of eggs in sugar, 

Flavor to taste, % weight eggs in flour. 



1 16 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

SPONGE CAKE — 1. 
12 eggs, whites, % pound flour, 

10 eggs, yolks, 1 teaspoon salt, 

1 pound granulated sugar, 3 teaspoons cream of tartar. 

Beat the yolks until thick and smooth, then add the sugar by 
degrees, and beat 15 minutes; then lightly stir in the whites, pre- 
viously beaten to a stiff froth, and lastly the flour with which the 
salt and cream of tartar have been sifted. Bake in a slow oven, 
until the cake leaves the sides of the pan. Much depends on the 
baking. This is a perfect sponge cake. 

SPONGE CAKE 2. 

3 eggs, y 2 cup cold water, 

IX cups powdered sugar, 1 teaspoon soda, 

2 cups sifted flour, 2 teaspoons cream of tartar, 

1 lemon, grated rind and X of juice. 

SPONGE CAKE — 3. 

10 eggs, 1 pound flour, 

1 pound sugar, Flavor with lemon. 

Stir yolks of the eggs and sugar till perfectly light ; beat the 
whites and add them with the flour after beating together lightly ; 
flavor. 3 teaspoons baking powder in the flour will add to its 
lightness, but it never fails without. Bake in a moderate oven. 

WHITE SPONGE CAKE. 

2 cups powdered sugar, 14 eggs, whites, 
2 cups flour, Lemon juice, 

Cream of tartar. 

Sift the flour and sugar together and beat them into the stiff 
whites, add a pinch of cream of tartar, and the juice of 1 lemon 
just before baking. This makes 3 loaves. Bake in a moderate 
oven. If preferred add, instead of lemon juice, 1 cup cocoanut. 
This recipe can be made regular sponge cake by using the yolks of 
the eggs, and is very nice. 

TEN-MINUTE CAKE. 

M pound butter, 1 pound sugar, little less, 

1 pound flour, little less, 6 eggs, 

Flavor with mace. 
Bake in muffin rings. 



CAKE. 117 

TILDEN CAKE. 

1 cup butter, X A cup cornstarch, 

2 cups powdered sugar, 4 eggs, 

1 cup sweet milk, 2 teaspoons baking powder, 

3 cups flour, 2 teaspoons lemon extract. 

TIN WEDDING CAKE. 

1 cup butter, 5 eggs, 

3 cups sugar, X A teaspoon soda, 

1 cup milk, 1 teaspoon cream of tartar, 

4 cups flour, M pound-citron. 
This makes two loaves. 

WATERMELON CAKE. 
White part. 

2 cups powdered sugar, 5 eggs, whites, 
% cup butter, 3 cups flour, 

% cup sweet milk, 2)4 teaspoons baking powder. 

Red part. 
y& cup butter, 2 cups flour, 

1 cup red sugar, 5 eggs, yolks, 

Yi cup milk, 3 teaspoons baking powder, 

Yi pound raisins, whole. 
Put the red batter in centre of the pan, and the white around 
the outside. 

WEDDING CAKE 1. 

1 pound sugar, 1 large tumbler molasses, 

1 pound butter, 3 tablespoons cinnamon, 
\% pounds flour. 2 tablespoons cloves, 

2 pounds raisins, 2 tablespoons allspice, 
2 pounds currants, X teaspoon mace, 

1 pound citron, 1 nutmeg, 

12 eggs, % cup hot water, 

1 teaspoon soda. 
Dissolve the soda in the hot water ; beat the eggs very light, 
3'olks and whites separately ; cream the butter and sugar together ; 
sift the flour several times ; seed the raisins ; wash and dry the 
currants ; slice the citron thin ; flour all the fruit ; grate the nut- 
meg, and mix all the spices with a little of the flour to prevent 
their getting in lumps. Beat all together very thoroughly, add- 
ing a little of the flour at a time, and bake in a slow oven 4 hours. 
This will keep for years. It is better in two months than when 
fresh. When wanted for use, overlay with boiled ice. 



] 1 8 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

WEDDING CAKE — 2. 
50 eggs, 1° pounds currants, 

5 pounds sugar, 1 pint sweet jelly, 

5 pounds flour, M ounce cloves, 

5 pounds butter, 1 ounce cinnamon, 
15 pounds raisins, 4 ounces mace, 

3 pounds citron, 4 ounces nutmeg. 

This makes forty-three and one-half pounds, keeps twenty years, 
and is unequaled. 

QUICK WEDDING CAKE. 
10 cups sifted flour, % teaspoon soda, 

6 cups sugar, 3 teaspoons mace and nutmeg mixed, 

4 cups butter, 2 pounds seeded raisins, 
3 cups milk, 1 pound currants, 

s eggs, 1 gill rose-water. 

Rub the butter and sugar to a cream, add the well-beaten yolks ; 
dissolve the soda in a little of the milk, warm the remainder to 
the temperature of new milk, and add with the flour and beaten 
whites, then the spices, fruit, and lastly the soda. Bake 2 hours 
in a moderate oven. 

WHIPPED CREAM CAKE. 

1 cup sugar, 2 teaspoons butter, 

2 eggs, 4 tablespoons milk, 

1 cup flour. 1 teaspoon cream of tartar, 

}4 teaspoon soda. 

When the cake is cool have ready one-half pint sweet cream 
whipped to a stiff froth, sweeten and flavor to taste, spread over 
the cake and serve while fresh. The cream will froth easier if 
made cold by setting on ice before whipping. 

WHITE PERFECTION CAKE. 

3 cups sugar, )4 cup cornstarch, 
1 cup butter, 12 eggs, whites, 

1 cup milk, 1 teaspoon soda, 

3 cups flour, 2 teaspoons cream of tartar, 

Flavor. 

Cream the butter and sugar together, add the cornstarch dis- 
solved in one-half the milk, the soda dissolved in the rest of the 
milk, then the flour and cream of tartar sifted together, the well- 
beaten whites, and flavor. 



CAKE. 1 1 9 

WHITE CAKE. 

2 cups sugar, 1 cup sweet milk, 

2 cups flour, 6 eggs, whites, 

% cups butter, 3 teaspoons bakiug powder. 

Flavor to taste. 
Frost with yellow frosting. 

WONDER CAKE. 

3 eggs, 1}4 cups raisins, 

3 cups flour, \% cups currants, 

134 cups sugar, % cup boiled cider or sweet milk, 

1 cup butter, 1 teaspoon soda, 

2 teaspoons cream of tartar. 
The longer this cake is kept the better it is. 

YELLOW CAKE. 

1 cup sugar, 1 cup sweet milk, 

2 cups flour, 2 teaspoons baking powder, 
}4 cup butter, 5 eggs, yolks, 

1 egg, white. 
Bake in long tins, cut in squares and frost all over, and in the 
center of each square place a marsh mallow. Season with pine- 
apple or rose. 

LAYER CAKES. 

The pans used in baking layer cakes must be very thoroughly 
greased, but not left oily, to ensure their clean removal from the 
cake ; and the oven should be hotter than for loaves of cake, but of 
even temperature. 

If jelly is used to spread between the layers, it is a good plan to 
beat it smoothly and spread it before the cakes are quite cool. In 
"building," an inverted jelly tin furnishes a perfectly level sur- 
face on which to lay and spread the cake, and it may be allowed to 
remain on it until perfectly cold, when it should be set away in a 
tin cake-box. in a cool place. In cutting, it is better to first 
make a round hole in the centre, with a knife, or a tin tube, about 
an inch and a quarter in diameter. This prevents the edge of the 
cake from crumbling in cutting. In making the custard or filling 
for layer cake, cook in a double boiler or in a pail set in boiling 
water. 



120 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

ALMOND CAKE. 

2 cups sugar, 1 cup cornstarch, 

% cup butter, 6 eggs, whites, 

1 cup sweet milk, 1 teaspoon soda, 

2 cups flour, 2 teaspoons cream of tartar. 

Mix the flour, cornstarch and cream of tartar well together, dis- 
solve the soda in the milk, cream the butter and sugar, add the 
milk gradually, then the whites of the eggs with the flour, and 
bake in jelly tins. 

Filling, 

2 eggs, 2 pounds almonds, 
IX cups sugar, 1 tablespoon vanilla. 

Blanch the almonds and pound fine in a mortar, or a cloth ; beat 
whites and yolks of the eggs together lightly, add the sugar, then 
the almonds, and vanilla. 

v ALMOND CREAM CAKE. 

10 eggs, whites, 1 goblet flour, 

IX goblets powdered sugar, 1 teaspoon cream of tartar, heaping. 

Mix the cream of tartar with the flour; sift the sugar into the 
well-beaten whites, then the flour and cream of tartar, stir very 
gently ; bake in jelly pans. 

Cream. 

% pint sweet cream, 1 teaspoon cornstarch, 

3 eggs, yolks, 1 tablespoon powdered sugar, 

1 pound almonds. 

Dissolve the starch smoothly with a little milk, add the beaten 
yolks and sugar ; boil the cream, and stir in these ingredients ; 
blanch and chop fine a half pound almonds and stir into the 
ei-eam. Put together like jelly cake while icing is soft, and stick 
in a half pound of almonds split in two. 

BANANA CAKE. 
6 eggs, 1 cup flour, 

1 cup butter, 1 cup cornstarch, 

1 cup sugar, 1 cup milk, 

3 teaspoons baking powder. 

Bake in layers, and while warm place sliced bananas between. 
Ice and eat while fresh. Enough for two cakes. 



CAKE. 1.21 

CARAMEL CAKE. 

Yz cup butter, 34 cup sweet milk, 

1 cup powdered sugar, 4 eggs, whites, 

134 cups flour, 1 teaspoon baking powder. 

Bake in layers. 

Filling. 

334 cups C. sugar, % cup cream, 

1 tablespoon melted butter. 

The particular part is in making and applying the filling or cara- 
mel. Boil all together in a clean smooth skillet, stirring only a 
little to prevent scorching. To ascertain when it is cooked enough, 
let a drop fall into a cup of cold" water ; when it rubs to a pasty 
condition between thumb and finger, take from the fire and stir to 
the consistency of very thick molasses, when it may be placed be- 
tween the layers and over the top and sides, forming a most deli- 
cious cake. 

CHOCOLATE CARAMEL CAKE. 

134 cups sugar, 2 l 4 cups flour, 

% cup butter, 3 eggs, 

34 cup milk, 2 teaspoons baking powder, 

Bake in jelly tins. 

Caramel. 

1 pint brown sugar, 34 cake chocolate, 

34 cup milk or water, Butter size of an egg. 

Boil 20 minutes, or until thick enough, and spread between the 
cakes while warm. For the frosting of top of cake use: 

2 eggs, whites, 1 teaspoon vanilla, 

134 cups sugar, 3 teaspoons grated chocolate, heaping. 

CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

2 cups sugar, 4 cups sifted flour, 

1 cup butter, 2 teaspoons baking powder, 

1 cup milk, 5 eggs. 

Reserve 3 of the whites for frosting. Bake in 3 layers in deep 
jelly tins. 

Frosting. 

13£ cups powdered sugar, 2 teaspoons vanilla, 

6 tablespoons grated chocolate, 3 eggs, whites. 



122 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

DELICIOUS CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

8 eggs, whites, 3 cups flour, large, 

* 2 cups sugar, 1 cup sweet milk, 

1 cup butter, 3 teaspoons baking powder, 

1 cake sweet chocolate. 

Beat the butter to a cream, siir in the sugar, and beat until 
light ; add the milk, flour, and beaten whites. When well beaten, 
divide into equal parts, and into one half grate the chocolate. 
Bake in layers, spread with custard, and alternate the white 
and dark cakes. 

Custard. 

2 eggs, 1 tablespoon butter, 

1 cup sugar, 2 teaspoons cornstarch, 

1 pint milk, Flavor with vanilla if desired. 

Let the butter and milk come to a boil, add the eggs and sugar 
beaten together, the cornstarch dissolved in a little milk, and lastly, 
the flavoring. 

NOVEL CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

1 cup sugar, % teaspoon soda, 

l /z cup butter, 1 teaspoon cream of tartar, 

% cup sweet milk, % teaspoon cinnamon, 

1% cups flour, }4 teaspoon cloves, 

3 eggs, 34 cake sweet German chocolate. 

Grate the chocolate and stir it into the milk. Mix the spices, 
cream of tartar, and soda in the flour. Stir the ingredients all to- 
gether thoroughly, and bake in 3 layers which are to be put to- 
gether with plain white frosting. Frost the top of the cake. 

COCOANUT CAKE 1. 

2 cups powdered sugar, 3>£ cups flour, 
% cup butter, 1 teaspoon soda, 

1 cup sweet milk, 2 teaspoons cream of tartar, 

6 eggs, reserving 2 whites. 

Bake in jelly pans. 

Icing. 

2 eggs, whites, 1 cup powdered sugar, small, 

1 cocoanut, grated. 
Beat the whites stiff, add the sugar, then the grated cocoanut, 
and spread evenly on the layers when cold. 



cake. 123 

CREAM CAKE. 
3 eggs, Yi. cup milk, 

13^ cups sugar, l teaspoon baking powder, 

\i cup butter. Flour to make of usual consistency. 

( Sream. 
l cup sugar, l egg, 

1 cup milk, 2 teaspoons cornstarch. 

3 teaspoons vanilla. 
FRENCH CREAM CAKE. 
1 cup white sugar, 3 eggs. 

IV, cups Hour, :J tablespoons cold water, 

1 teaspoon baking powder. 
This is enough for 2 cakes baked in pie pans, to be split while 
warm, and spread with the hot custard, or for 4 cakes baked in 
jelly pans, with the hot custard spread between them, the latter 
being the preferable plan. 

Custard. 
1 pint milk, large. 2 eggs. 

1 cup sugar, small. 1 teaspoon vanilla. 

\i cup butter. 2 tablespoons cornstarch. 

Dissolve the cornstarch in a little of the milk; heat the rest of 
the milk ; when boiling, add the sugar, cornstarch, and beaten 
eggs, stirring briskly ; add the butter, stir tdl dissolved, flavor, 
and spread on the cakes while hot. This can be used as a pud- 
ding by pouring over each piece a spoonful of the custard that is 
left. 

QOLDEN CKEAM CARE. 

1 cup sugar. J.% cups flour. 

% cup butter. 3 eggs, whites. 

l ., cup milk. 1 teaspoon baking powder. 

Bake in deep jelly tins, and spread with either o\' the following 
creams: 

itm 1. 

;gS, yolks. Vanilla to taste. 

1 cup sugar. % tablespoons rich, sweet cream. 

Beat the yolks very light, add the sugar, then the cream, and 
flavor with vanilla. 

Oream- 
jgs, yolks, tablespoons cornstarch, 

cup milk. Small lump butter. 

Sweeten to taste. 
Cook in a custard kettle till thick, let cool, and spread. 



124 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

CREAM PUFFS. 

1 cup butter, % pint boiling water, 

1% cups flour, 6 eggs. 

Heat the butter and water ; when boiling, add flour, stirring till 
smooth ; cool, and beat thoroughly into it the well-beaten eggs. 
Drop on warm greased tins, a tablespoon in a place, leaving space 
between to prevent touching ; brush over with the white of an egg, 
and bake in a quick oven, 10 or 15 minutes. When cold, open at 
the sides and fill with custard. 

Custard. 

1 quart boiling milk, 5 eggs, 

3 tablespoons cornstarch, Vanilla, 

A little sugar. 

Dissolve the cornstarch in a little cold water, add to the boiling 
milk, and boil 3 minutes, stirring all the time ; beat it into the 
well-beaten eggs, sweeten to taste and return to the fire for a few 
moments, but do not boil. Flavor and use as directed. 

DIXIE CREAM PUFFS. 

1)4 cups white sugar, 5 eggs, 

\% cups sifted flour, 2 teaspoons baking powder. 

Beat } T olks and whites separately: bake in teacups, filling one- 
half full. 

Cream. 

2 eggs, 1 large tablespoon cornstarch. 

1 pint milk, Butter size of a large walnut, 
% cup sugar, Flavor with lemon or vanilla. 

Beat the yolks and whites separately, heat the milk, and when 
boiling, add the sugar, the cornstarch dissolved in a little milk, 
} T olks, butter, and lastly the flavoring. When done cut the cakes 
open, put in a spoonful of the cream, place together again, roll in 
the whites, and then in granulated sugar. 

CARAMEL CUP CAKE. 

4 eggs, 1 cup sweet milk, 

2 cups sugar, 1 cup butter, 

3 cups flour, 2 teaspoons baking powder. 
Bake in layers. 



CAKE. 1 25 

Caramel. 

1 cup butter, 1 cup white sugar, 

x /i cup cream. 

Put sugar in a hot skillet. Do not stir until it melts and sinks, 
then stir into it the butter and cream, and let remain on the fire 
until quite thick. Let it become cool before spreading between the 

layers. 

DOMINOES 1. 

Use any good recipe for sponge cake, bake in long pie tins ; two 
such tins will make twelve dominoes, and if no more are required, the 
rest of the batter may be baked in a loaf. The batter in the pie tins 
should not be more than one-third of an inch deep ; spread it evenly, 
and bake in a quick oven. Have a brown paper nearly twice the 
size of the cake on the table, and the moment one of the cakes comes 
from the oven turn it upside down in the center of the paper, 
spread it with a thin layer of jelly, and lay the other cake on it up- 
side down ; cut with a hot, sharp knife lengthwise, directly through 
the center, then divide across in 6 equal parts, push them with the 
knife about an inch apart, and ice with ordinary white icing, put- 
ting a large dessertspoonful on every piece ; the heat of the cake 
will soften it, and with a little help the edges and sides will be 
smoothly covered. All of the icing that runs over on the paper 
may be carefully taken up and used again. It must then dry, 
which it will do very quickly Make a horn of stiff white paper, 
about 5 inches long, 1^- inches across the top, and one-eighth of an 
inch at the other end ; put in it a dessertspoon of dark chocolate 
icing, close the horn at the top, and pressing out the icing from the 
small opening, draw a line of it across the centre of every cake, 
and make spots like those on ivory dominoes ; keep the horn sup- 
plied with icing. 

DOMINOES — 2. 

Yz cup butter, 1 cup sweet milk, 

1 cup sugar, 4 eggs, whites, 

\ l / 2 cups flour, \y 2 teaspoons baking powder, 

Flavor with vanilla. 

Bake in long tin, about 1^ inches in thickness when baked, 
then make a boiled white frosting and cover the cakes. When 



126 



HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 



cold, cut pieces the size 3'ou want the dominoes to be. Make a 
horn of stiff white paper and proceed as in recipe for dominoes — 
No. 1. 

FIG CAKE 1. 

White part. 

% cup sweet milk, 

8 eggs, whites, 

3 teaspoons baking powder. 



2 cups sugar, 
% cup butter, 

3 cups flour, 
Bake in 2 long pie tins. 



% cup butter, 

1 cup sugar, 

IX cups flour, largo, 

Yz cup sweet milk, 

1 teaspoon allspice, 



Gold part. 

8 eggs, yolks, 

1 egg, white, 

\ x / 2 teaspoons baking powder, 

1 pound figs, 

Cinnamon to taste. 

Put one-half the gold in a pie tin, and lay on the halved figs, 
previously sifted over with flour, so they will just touch each other ; 
add the rest of the gold, and bake. Put the cakes together with 
frosting while warm, the gold between the white ones, and cover 
with frosting. 

Or, bake each cake in 2 layers and pile alternately with the figs, 
sliced, between them. 

fig cake — 2. 

2 cups sifted flour, 
4 eggs, whites, 

3 teaspoons baking powder. 



1 cup sugar, 
% cup butter, 
)4 cup milk, 
Bake in layers. 



FiJJing. 



1 cup sugar, 1 pound figs, 

Water enough to dissolve sugar. 

Dissolve the sugar in water and when boiling hot, add the figs, 
which have been'looked over and cut fine ; boil three-quarters of an 
hour, taking care it does not burn. Put between the cakes, and 
frost the top. 

HICKORY-NUT CAKE. 



2 cups sugar, 
% cup butter, 
1 cup sweet milk, 



3 cups flour, 
5 eggs, whites, 
2 teaspoons baking powder, 
X cup nuts. 



CAKE. 127 

Beat the sugar and butter to a cream, beat whites of the eggs to 
a stiff froth, and cut the nut kernels into small pieces before mix- 
ing all together. 

Icing. 

2 eggs, whites, y 2 cup powdered sugar, large, 

1 cup whole nut kernels. 

Beat the whites to a stiff froth, and add the sugar. Spread it on 

the first layer, then stick whole hickory nut kernels all over it. 

Add the second layer and proceed the same way. The icing 

should be put on the top layer without the kernels. 

The nuts may be left out of the cake, and the layers put to- 
gether with custard. 

Custard. 
2 eggs, 1 pint boiling milk, 

Yz cup sugar, 1 tablespoon corn starch, 

2 cups hickory nut meats. 

To the boiling milk, add the cornstarch dissolved in a little 
milk, the beaten eggs, sugar, and nuts, chopped fine ; mix well to- 
gether and take from stove when it thickens ; put between the 
cakes while cakes and custard are both warm. 

ICE CREAM CAKE. 
M pound butter, % pint milk, 

>2 pound flour, 6 eggs, 

% pound powdered sugar, 4 tablespoons rose-water. 
Bake quickly in iron gem pans. They raise light with hollow 
center. When cold, cut a round hole in top as you would ' ( plug " 
a melon, fill with ice cream just before serving, so that it will not 
have time to melt. 

JELLY CAKE. 
1 egg, 2 tablespoons milk, 

Yz cup sugar, 2 teaspoons cream, 

1 cup flour, 1 teaspoon baking powder. 

Bake in layers and put together with jelly. 

ROLLED JELLY CAKE 1. 

12 eggs, % pound flour, 

1 pound powdered sugar. 

Beat the eggs and sugar together very lightly, then stir in the 

flour, making batter as light as for sponge cake, and thin enough 

to spread nicely when poured ; make up as quickly as possible. 



128 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

Have pans about 12 by 18 inches and 1 inch deep, lined with thin 
brown paper, using no grease on pan or paper ; pour in batter, 
spread out with a knife as thin, as possible, about one-half inch 
thick, and bake. When done, remove from oven, let cool a few 
minutes, and while still warm, but not hot, turn out of pan upside 
down. With a brush or soft cloth wet in cold water, brush over 
the paper and pull it off; spread cake thin with jelly and roll it 
up, being careful to place the outer edge of roll against something 
so that it will not unroll until cold. Sprinkle with powdered sugar 
and slice. If baked in pans such as are described above, the 
recipe will make two rolls, each twelve inches long, which should 
be cut in two, making four rolls. Use no baking powder, as it 
makes the cake too brittle. The paper lining should be larger 
than pan, to lift out the cake by taking hold of the projecting 
edges. This never fails. 

ROLLED JELLY CAKE 2. 

4 eggs, 1 cup flour, 

1 cup sugar, 2 teaspoons baking powder, 

Pinch of salt. 
Add the salt to the eggs, beat very light and add the sugar ; 
sift flour and powder together and stir in lightly. The batter 
should be thin. Pour into long, well-greased pans just enough to 
cover the bottom. If the cake rises unevenly, turn the pan in the 
oven. When done, let cool a little, turn out on paper or a board, 
spread with jelly and roll up. If the jelly is stiff, set on the hearth 
to warm while- the cake is baking. 

LADY FINGERS. 

1% pounds flour, 1 teaspoon baking powder, 

1 pound powdered sugar, 10 eggs. 
Sift the baking powder into the flour, beat the eggs and sugar as 
light as for sponge cake, sift in the flour and stir slowly. Push 
from a confectioner's syringe or paper tube into a pan lined with 
light brown paper, not buttered, making each about a finger long, 
and about as thick as a lead pencil, being careful not to get them 
too wide. Sprinkle with granulated sugar, bake in a quick oven, 
and, when cool, wet the under side of the paper with a brush, re- 
move and stick the fingers together, back to back. 



CAKE. 129 

Or, drop in small spoonfuls on buttered paper, a little distance 
apart ; try one and if it runs beat more, and add a little more flour. 
When nearly cool dip in chocolate icing, 

LEMON CAKE. 

\ l /t cups sugar, 5 eggs, 

1 cup butter, 4 teaspoons sweet milk, 

2Y 2 cups flour, Yt teaspoon soda, 
1 teaspoon cream tartar. 

Lemon Jelly. 

1 coffee cup sugar, 2 eggs, 

2 tablespoons butter, 2 lemons, juice only. 

Beat all together and boil until the consistency of jelly. For 
orange cake use oranges instead of lemons. 

METROPOLITAN CAKE. 
2 cups sugar, 4 cups flour, nearly, 

1 cup butter, 8 eggs, whites, 

1 cup milk, 3 teaspoons baking powder, 

Flavor with lemon. 

Bake a little more than three-fifths of this mixture in 3 jelly 
tins. To the remaining batter add : 

1 teaspoon cloves, \% tablespoons cinnamon, 

1 tablespoon allspice, ^ pound sliced citron, 

}i pound chopped raisins. 

Bake in 2 jelly tins and put together with frosting, alternating 
dark and light layers. 

MINNEHAHA CAKE. 

1% cups sugar, 6 eggs, whites, or 

X cup butter, 3 eggs, 

Yi cup milk, 1 teaspoon soda, 

2 cups sifted flour, heaping, 2 teaspoons cream of tartar. 
Bake in 3 layers. 

Filling. 
1 egg, white, A little water, 

1 cup sugar, 1 cup stoned raisins, 

Or, 1 cup hickory nut meats. 

Boil the sugar in enough water to dissolve it, until it is brittle 
when dropped in cold water, remove from stove and stir quickly 
into the well-beaten white, add the raisins, or hickory nuts, chopped 
fine, and place between the layers and over the top. 



1 30 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

NEAPOLITAN CAKE. 

Dark Part. 
2 eggs, 1 cup raisins, 

1 cup brown sugar, 1 cup currants, 
yi cup molasses, 1 teaspoon soda, 

Y 2 cup butter, 1 teaspoon cinnamon, 

y 2 cup strong coffee, 1 teaspoon cloves, 

2% cups flour, 1 teaspoon mace. 

White Part. 

2 cups white sugar, 2% cups flour, 

% cup butter, 1 cup cornstarch, 

1 cup milk, 4 eggs, whites, 

1 small teaspoon cream of tartar. 

Bake in la3'ers and put together with frosting, alternating dark 

and light. 

ONE EGO CAKE. > 

1 cup sugar, 1 large egg, 

1 cup flour, large, 1 teaspoon baking powder, 
3^ cup milk, 1 heaping tablespoon butter. 

Bake in 3 layers, putting together with jelly, or any filling pre- 
ferred. 

ORANGE CAKE. 

2 cups sugar, % cup milk, 
Yi cup butter, 3 eggs, 

Z)4, cups sifted flour, 3 teaspoons baking powder. 

Bake in jelly tins and put together with either of the following 
fillings : 

Orange Jelly. 
2 cups sugar, 2 tablespoons cold water, 

2 oranges, 2 eggs. 

Stir together the cold water, sugar, and the juice and grated rind 
of the oranges ; set over a pot of boiling water and when scalding 
hot, add the yolks of the eggs well beaten and just before taking 
from the fire stir in the white of 1 egg slightly beaten ; when cold, 
put between the layers of cake. Frost the top with the other 
white. 

Orange Filling. 

1 cup powdered sugar, large, 1 egg, 

2 large, or 3 small oranges. 



CAKE. 131 

Mix the yolk of the egg, sugar, and juice together; beat the 
whites to a stiff froth, stir in and spread between the layers. 

RIBBON CAKE. 
2% cups sugar, 4 cups flour, 

1 cup butter, 4 eggs, 

1 cup milk, X teaspoon soda, 

1 teaspoon cream tartar. 
Reserve one-third of this mixture, and bake the rest in 2 loaves 
of the same size. Add to third reserved, — 

1 cup raisins, % pound citron, 

1 cup currants, 2 tablespoons molasses, 

Spices to taste. 
Bake in a tin the same size as other loaves ; put the 3 loaves 
together with a little icing or currant jellj', placing the fruit loaf 
in the middle ; frost the top and sides. 

VELVET SPONGE CAKE. 

2 cups sugar, 2 teaspoons baking powder, 

2\i cups flour, 1 teaspoon lemon, 

1 cup boiling water, 6 eggs, reserving 3 whites for icing. 
Beat the yolks a little, add the sugar and beat 15 minutes ; add 
the 3 beaten whites, and the boiling water just before the flour ; 
flavor, and bake in 3 la} T ers, putting icing between them. 

Icing. 

3 eggs, whites, Flavor with lemon, 

G dessertspoons powdered sugar. 

WHITE MOUNTAIN CAKE. 

)4 cup butter, 2}£ cups flour, 

X A cup milk, 8 eggs, whites, 

2 cups powdered sugar, 2)4 teaspoons baking powder, 

Flavor. 
Bake in jelly tins and put together with icing. Sprinkle each 
layer thickly with grated cocoanut and a handsome cocoanut cake 
will result. 

* WONDER CAKE. 

1 cup sugar, 1 teaspoon baking powder, 

\)4 cups sifted flour, 7 eggs. 

Beat thoroughly the whites of eggs, adding sugar, and mix the 
ingredients with about one-half cup of hot water. Bake in 3 small 
pans. 



132 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

FILLINGS FOR LAYER CAKE. 

APPLE JELLY. 

1 large tart apple, 1 egg, 

1 cup sugar, 1 lemon, juice and rind. 

Grate the apple and the rind of the lemon, add the other ingre- 
dients and boil the jelly about 5 minutes. 

CINNAMON JELLY. 

2 eggs, yolks, 2 tablespoons sugar, 

1 level tablespoon cinnamon. 

COFFEE FILLING. 

1 tablespoon cream, 2 eggs, 

2 heaping tablespoons cornstarch, % cup sugar, 

1 cup strong black coffee. 

Add the cream and sugar to the coffee, and heat ; when boiling 
hot add the cornstarch dissolved in a little cold coffee, and let boil 
3 minutes. Then pour slowly over the well-beaten eggs and stir 
rapidly. If not thick enough set over boiling water and stir till 
the eggs set a little, but not long enough to curdle. Spread be- 
tween the layers and ice with Coffee Icing. Use Mocha and Java 
coffee mixed. 

ICE CREAM FILLING. 

1 pound almonds, Sugar to sweeten, 

1 pintthickest sweet cream, Flavor with vanilla. 

Beat the cream until it looks like ice cream, make very sweet, 
and flavor ; blanch and chop the almonds, stir into the cream, and 
put very thick between each la} T er. 

PEACH FILLING. 

Cut peaches in thin slices, prepare cream by whipping, sweet- 
ening and adding flavor of vanilla if desired, put layers of peaches 
between the sheets of cake, pour cream over each layer aftd over 
the top. This may also be made with ripe strawberries. 

WHIPPED CREAM FILLING. 

Use an} r recipe for nice la3 r er cake, and put the parts together 
with whipped cream. 



ICING. 133 

ICING. 

Keep the eggs in a very cold place. Break the whites on to 
a platter or large shallow dish. Allow one small cup or one- 
third pound of powdered sugar to the white of an egg. Beat the 
whites thoroughly before adding, gradually, the sugar. The length 
of time required for beating depends on the coldness and freshness 
of the eggs. Some experienced cooks advise putting the sugar di- 
rectly into the whites and beating all together. It is claimed, 
icing so made does not crumble easily. If a soft icing is desired 
add one-fourth pound of sugar, or ten teaspoons of sugar and one 
of cornstarch to the white of each egg. Cake can be iced while 
warm ; in the case of fruit cake, it is better to leave it until with- 
'in a few hours before wanted, as icing will turn yellow by standing. 
Allow the whites of two eggs for a large cake. Remove the loose 
particles from the cake with a cloth, and dust with flour. Flavor 
icing just before using ; if lemon juice is preferred, extra sugar 
will be needed for the additional liquid. To color icing, use either 
cochineal, a red jelly or strawberry syrup for a pink, strong coffee 
for amber, and the strained juice of an orange, in which has been 
soaked the rind, for a delicate yellow. There are fruit syrups and 
powders which give almost any color desired. Powdered or con- 
fectioner's sugar should always be used except for boiled icing ; 
for that the granulated is better. Remember to beat the eggs en- 
tirely in one direction, that is, from left to right, or right to left ; 
do not change the order while beating. It is as important here as 
in cake making. 

Put the cake on a smooth, flat surface, where it can be undis- 
turbed, with a layer of clean white paper under it. Drop a large 
spoon of icing on the center of the cake, and spread smoothly with 
a knife dipped in hot water to prevent sticking. Work as rapidly 
as possible to do it well. When finished set the cake in a cool 
place to harden. It is nice, when the frosting is almost cold, to 
take a knife and mark the cake in slices. Any ornaments, such as 
gum drops, candies, orange flowers or ribbons should be put on 
while the icing is moist. When dry ornament with piping, which 
is a stiff icing squeezed through a paper funnel, and may be tinted 
with colored sugars. 



134 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

ALMOND ICING. 

% pint powdered sugar, 3 eggs, whites, 
% pint sweet almonds, 1 teaspoon lemon or vanilla. 
Blanch the almonds by putting them in boiling water, stripping 
off the skins, and spreading upon a dry cloth until cold ; pound a 
few of them at a time in a mortar till well pulverized ; mix care- 
fully the whites of the eggs and sugar, add almonds, flavor, and 
dry in a cool oven or in the open air when weather is pleasant. 

BOILED ICING. 

3 eggs, whites, 4 tablespoons hot water, 

1 large cup sugar. 

Boil the sugar and water briskly for 5 minutes, or until it 
threads when dropped from the end of the spoon. Then, with left 
hand, pour the boiling syrup upon the beaten whites in a small 
stream, while beating hard with right hand. This is an excellent 
frosting. If preferred, add one-half pound sweet almonds blanched 
and pounded to a paste, or 1 cup of hickory nut meats, chopped 
fine, and it will be perfectly delicious. This amount will frost the 
top of two large cakes. 

BOILED ICING FOR LAYER CAKE. 

4 eggs, whites, % pint boiling water, 

4 cups sugar, 1 teaspoon cream tartar, 

1 teaspoon vanilla. 

Boil the sugar and water till clear as syrup and pour over the 
whites beaten stiff ; stir until it is a stiff cream ; add cream tartar 
and vanilla. This is nice for filling. 

BOILED ICING WITHOUT EGGS. 

% cup milk, • 1 teaspoon butter, 

1 cup sugar, 1 teaspoon vanilla. 

Boil all 10 minutes, or till a little thick, and spread on cake. 

BOILED ICING WITH RAISINS. 

1 cup sugar, 4 tablespoons water, 

% cup raisins, stoned, and chopped fine, 1 egg, white. 
Boil the sugar and water till it will thread from the spoon ; pour 
on to the beaten egg, and work with an egg beater till thick 
enough to spread on the cake. Take out enough for the top la3'er, 
and with the rest mix the raisins ; spread between the layers. 



ICING. 1 35 

CHOCOLATE ICING 1. 

3 eggs, whites, 3 tablespoons water, 

1 cup sugar, % pound chocolate, 

Flavor with vanilla.- 
Boil the sugar and water till the syrup will thread from the 
spoon ; cool a little and add chocolate ; beat all into the stiff 
whites, adding vanilla ; spread on the cakes. 

CHOCOLATE ICING — 2. 

2 eggs, whites. 1)4. cups powdered sugar, 

6 large tablespoons chocolate. 
Beat the whites very stiff, add the sugar, beat well, add the 
chocolate melted, but not cooked, and spread on the cake. 

CHOCOLATE ICING 3. 

3 eggs, whites, 1% cups powdered sugar, 

6 large tablespoons chocolate. 
Beat the whites but very little, the}- must not become white ; 
stir in the chocolate ; then pour in the sugar gradually, beating to 
mix it well. 

CHOCOLATE ICING 4. 

^ cup sugar, 1 tablespoon butter, 

% cup sweet milk, A little salt, 

1 tablespoon vanilla, x / 2 pound French vanilla sweet chocolate. 
Grate the chocolate and mix all the ingredients together except 
the vanilla ; boil 20 minutes, stirring constantly ; when cool add 
the vanilla and spread on the cake. If too thick add a little milk. 
This will frost six layers baked in jelly pans. 

COFFEE ICING. 

Have 1 gill very strong coffee well cleared and strained ; stir 
in sugar till thick enough to spread ; smooth it over the cake and 
set in a cool place for 1 or 2 hours ; add a second layer if a 
thicker icing is desired. 

confectioners' icing. 

To make this icing, break the white of an egg into a bowl. Do 
not beat it alone, but add a tablespoon of confectioners' sugar and 
beat the two together for 5 minutes till smooth and glossy ; then 
add another spoon of sugar and beat again ; continue beating till 
about 1 teacup has been used. After 4 or 5 spoons of sugar have 
been added, put in a little faster. It takes 1 hour to make this 



136 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

icing, but it will be perfectly smooth and glossy. When spread on 
the cake it should be warm, if it is the first coat. Many cake 
bakers, however, make a simpler icing, to be applied when the 
cake is a little warm, not hot, and then use a confectioners' icing 
when this first coat is cold and firm. The ornamental work on 
these cakes is done by the use of pastry tubes and a confectioners' 
rubber bag, and is usually the work of some one who has made 
this his business. It requires patience and practice in order to 
learn how to decorate cake tastefully. 

This recipe is sure to produce perfect results, but it requires 
great care in the preparation. Much of the fancy icing is made of 
sugar so much adulterated that all the flavor of the sugar is lost 
and it has a floury taste. As a matter of fact no confectioners' 
sugar is made of pure sugar, but the best quality is adulterated 
with starch sufficient to make a perfectly smooth icing that will 
stay in place. 

GELATINE ICING. 

1 tablespoon gelatine, ^ cup sugar, 

6 tablespoons boiling water, Flavor with lemon. 

Dissolve the gelatine in the boiling water, strain, add sugar and 

flavoring. 

icing — 1. 

2 oggs, whites, Lemon to flavor, 

10 ounces sugar, Tartaric acid if desired. 

Beat the whites to a stiff froth, add the sugar gradually, beat 
well for at least one-half hour, flavor with lemon juice. To color 
a delicate pink, use strawberry, currant or cranberry ; or the 
grated peeling of an orange or lemon moistened with the juice and 
squeezed through a thin cloth, will color a handsome yellow. 
This amount will frost one large cake. 

icing — 2. 
1 pound powdered sugar, 3 eggs, whites, 

1 tablespoon cold water. 
Put the water on the sugar, add the whites beaten a little, but 
not stiff ; mix all together, put into a deep bowl and place in a 
dish of boiling water ; heat till it becomes thin and clear, and then 
thickens. When quite thick remove from the fire ; stir while cool- 
ing till thick enough to spread. 



ICING. 137 

ICING — 3. 

1 lemon, juice, 1 poind powdered sugar, 
4 eggs, whites, 1 teaspoon cornstarch, 

1 teaspoon sifted white gum arabic. 
Beat the whites stiff and add the powdered sugar, then the corn- 
starch, gum arabic, and lemon juice ; beat all well together and 
spread on cake. 

LEMON ICING. 

To the juice of 1 lemon, strained, add sugar till it is thick 
enough to spread well. Put on cake and dry in a cool place for 1 
or 2 hours ; another layer can be added if desired. 

& SIMPLE ICING. 

Measure out a ciudpf granulated sugar ; add 5 tablespoons of 
water ; stir the wa'^r and sugar together till the sugar dissolves, 
but do not stir dKerward. Let boil till it ropes — that is, till a 
little taken up with a teaspoon forms a continuous string, instead 
of falling in drops like a thin liquid. Have the white of 1 egg 
beaten thoroughly. Let one pour the thick syrup into the white 
of the egg while another beats it. Beat for 2 or 3 minutes till 
thick and creamy. Pour instantly over the cake to be iced, as it 
will harden in a few moments after it is cold. 

TUTTI ERUTTI ICING. 

3 cups sugar, % pound almonds, chopped fine, 

\4, cup water, J£ small cup large raisins, 

2 eggs, whites, A little citron sliced thin. 

Boil the sugar and water till the syrup is waxy ; pour it over the 
beaten whites, and beat till cool ; then add almonds, raisins and 
citron, and spread on the cake. 

WINDOM ICING. 

Yz sheet Russia isinglass, 1 pound pulverized sugar, 

Yz cup boiling water, y 2 cup raisins. 

Dissolve isinglass in water, stir in sugar, then raisins, seeded 
and chopped. Beat well. 

YELLOW ICING. 

1 egg, yolk, 9 heaping teaspoons powdered sugar, 

Vanilla to flavor. 
Use the same day as made, for it is nice only when fresh. 



138 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

COOKIES AND JUMBLES. 

In mixing cookies avoid using more flour than necessaiy to roll 
out the dough, as it makes them hard. In such a case work in 
a little milk or melted butter. Flour the rolling pin, board and the 
cutter to prevent sticking. See that the dough is rolled out evenly, 
in order that the cookies may bake evenly. Do not crowd them in 
the pan, that they may keep their shape. Let the pan be of sheet 
iron, or use a piece of sheet iron the size of the oven. Turn it 
when the cookies are half baked. The oven should be hot. They 
should bake in 10 minutes unless rolled very thick; jumbles) re- 
quire about 15 minutes. 

A nice " finishing touch" can be given by sprinkling them with 
granulated sugar and rolling over lightly with the rolling pin, then 
cutting out and pressing a whole raisin in the center of each ; or 
when done a very light brown, brush them over while still hot 
with thick syrup of sugar and water, sprinkle with currants and re- 
turn to the oven a moment. 

Graham cookies can be made by using the most valuable recipe, 
substituting graham flour where white flour is called for, and 
making them a little less stiff than usual. Use flour when rolling 
them out. 

ada's sugar cakes. 

3 cups sugar, 3 eggs, 

2 cups butter, 1 teaspoon soda, 

Flour sufficient to roll. 

COOKIES. 

1 cup butter, )4 teaspoon soda, 

2 cups sugar, 2 eggs, 

1 cup water or sweet milk, Flavor with lemon or vanilla. 
Just enough flour to roll. 

CHEAP COOKIES. 
1 cup sugar, 1 tablespoon butter, 

% cup milk, X A teaspoon soda, 

1 egg, Flavor, 

Flour to roll. 
If desired 1 tablespoon of ginger or cinnamon can be added to 
this recipe. 



COOKIES. 



139 



CRISP COOKIES. 



1 cup butter, 

2 cups sugar, 

3 eggs, 

1 teaspoon soda, 



2 teaspoons cream of tartar, 
1 teaspoon cinnamon 
1 teaspoon nutmeg, 
Flour to roll. 



Spread a little sweet milk over each cookey, sprinkle with sugar 
and bake in a quick oven. 

CRISP COOKIES WITHOUT SODA. 

1 pound flour, 5 eggs, 

1 pound sugar, % pound butter, 

Flavor with nutmeg or lemon. 
Beat the butter and sugar to a cream, add the yolks, well-beaten 
whites, flour, and flavoring. Roll thin and bake in a quick oven. 



EOGLESS COOKIES. 



2 cups sugar, 
1 cup milk, 
1 cup butter, 



14 teaspoon soda, 

Flavor, 

Flour to roll. 



FRUIT COOKIES — 1. 



IX cups sugar, 
1 cup butter, 

1 cup currants, 

1 cup raisins, chopped, 

X nutmeg, grated, 

Bake in a moderately hot oven. 



1 teaspoon cinnamon, 
1 teaspoon allspice, 
1 teaspoon cloves, 
1 teaspoon soda, 
Flour to roll thin. 



FRUIT COOKIES 2. 



2 cups sugar, 
1 cup sour cream, 
% cup butter, 
)4 cup raisins, 
14 cup currants, 
y 2 cup citron, 



2 eggs, 

1 teaspoon soda, 

1 teaspoon Cinnamon, 

1 teaspoon cloves, 

1 teaspoon allspice, 

Flour to mould firm. 



Seed and chop the raisins, chop the citron fine ; roll one-fourth 
inch thick, and watch carefully while baking or they will burn. 

PREMIUM GRAHAM COOKIES. 
2 cups sugar, 1 egg, 

1 cup sour milk, 1 teaspoon soda, 

1 cup butter, or lard, Graham flour to make a soft dough. 
Roll thin and bake in a hot oven. 



140 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

grandmother's cookies. 

2 cups sugar, \i teaspoon soda, 

1 cup butter, Nutmeg, 

1 cup sour cream, Flour. 

Make as soft a paste as can be rolled out very thin, cut and 
bake in a moderate oven. Add 2 eggs to this recipe, if desired. 

HONEY CAKES. 

)4. pound sugar, 1 tablespoon cinnamon, 

% pound butter, 1 teaspoon nutmeg, 

1 pint honey, Flour to form dough. 

Cream the butter and sugar, add the spices, honey and flour ; 
knead well, roll, and cut with cake cutter ; brush the tops with 
honey and water mixed in equal quantities, and bake in a moderate 
oven. 

MOTHER'S COOKIES. 

2 cups maple sugar, 1 cup butter, 

Flour to roll stiff. 

Work in all the flour you can. Success is in making them. 

NUTMEG COOKIES. 

2 cups sugar, 2 eggs, 

% cup butter, X A teaspoon soda, 

% cup sour milk, Flavor with nutmeg, or caraway seed, 
6 cups flour, or enough to roll. 

OATMEAL CAKE, OR COOKIES. 

1 cup brown sugar, Yz cup cold water, 

Yz cup butter, 1 teaspoon soda, 

4 cups oatmeal, Flour to roll out. 

Dissolve the soda in the water, mix all well together, and roll 
out ; may be baked in the form of a thin cake, or as cookies. 

OATMEAL COOKIES. 

3 pints flour, 1 ounce ginger, 

1 pound steel-ground oatmeal, 1 tablespoon soda, 

2 coffee cups sugar, Boiling water to dissolve soda, 
X cup lard, Molasses to make a stiff dough. 

These cookies will keep any length of time. 



COOKIES. 141 

SPICED COOKIES. 
2 eggs, 1 teaspoon nutmeg, 

2 cups sugar, 1 teaspoon mace, 

1 cup seeded raisins or currants, 1 teaspoon allspice, 
X cup butter, 3 tablespoons water, 

1 teaspoon cinnamon, 2 tablespoons baking powder, 

1 teaspoon cloves, Flour to make a soft dough. 

Roll thin and bake in a quick oven. 

SPLENDID COOKIES. 
Yz cup sweet milk, 3 eggs, 

2 cups sugar, 2 teaspoons baking powder, 

1 cup butter, Flavor to suit taste, 

Flour to make soft dough. 
Beat the eggs, sugar and butter to a cream, add the milk, stir- 
ring constantly, the flavoring, and the flour into which has been 
sifted the baking powder. Roll thin and bake quickly. 

WHITE COOKIES. 

2 eggs, whites, y 2 cup butter, 

1 cup sugar, 2 teaspoons baking powder, 

1 cup milk, large, Flavor with vanilla or rose, 

Flour to roll. 
Dust the top with sugar and bake quickly. 

JUMBLES. 
\y 2 cups sugar, Y 2 teaspoon soda, 

% cup butter, 1 teaspoon cream of tartar, 

3 eggs, 3 tablespoons sweet milk, 

Flour sufficient to roll. 
Roll and sprinkle with sugar, cut out and bake. 

COCOANUT JUMBLES. 

2 cups sugar, 2 eggs, 

1 cup butter, % grated cocoanut. 

Just flour enough to roll out thin. 

LEMON SNAPS. 

1 cup sugar, large, 2 teaspoons hot water, 
% cup butter, Flavor with lemon, 

% teaspoon soda, Flour to roll thin. 

Dissolve soda in the hot water. 

SAND TARTS. 

2 cups sugar, 2 eggs, reserving 1 white, 
1 cup butter, Cinnamon, 

3 cups flour, Almonds or raisins. 



142 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

Roll out thin and cut in square cakes with a knife ; spread the 
white of egg on top, sprinkle with cinnamon and sugar, and press 
a blanched almond or raisin in the center. 

WALNUT WAFERS. 
1 cup flour, yi cup butter, 

1 cup sugar, 1 egg, 

% pound English walnuts. 

Chop the nuts very fine, beat the butter and sugar to a cream, 
add the well-beaten egg and flour and. stir in the nuts. Drop in 
spoonfuls on buttered tins, and flatten a little ; bake in a moderate 
oven. Or, add a little more flour and roll out. This recipe makes 
about two dozen. 

GINGER BREAD. 
If in making ginger bread the dough becomes too stiff before it 
is rolled out, set it before the fire. Snaps will not be crisp if 
made on a rainy day. Ginger bread and cakes require a moderate 
oven, snaps a quick one. If cookies or snaps 'become moist in 
keeping, put them in the oven and heat them for a few moments. 
Always use New Orleans or Porto Rico molasses, and never 
syrups. Soda is to act on the spirit of the molasses. In making 
the old-fashioned, soft, square cakes of ginger bread, put a portion 
of the dough on a well-floured tin sheet, roll smoothly to each side, 
trim off evenly around the edges, and mark in squares with a 
floured knife or wheel cutter. In this way the dough may be 
softer than where it is necessary to remove the pieces from the 
board after rolling and cutting. Cover the board well with flour 
before rolling all kinds of soft ginger breads, as they are liable to 
stick, and should always be mixed as soft as they can be handled. 

ALUM GINGER BREAD— 1. 

1 pint molasses, 1 tablespoon ginger, 

1 cup melted lard, 1 tablespoon salt, 

1 cup boiling water, 1 tablespoon alum, pulverized, 

1 heaping teaspoon soda, Flour to knead. 
In one-half the water dissolve the alum, in the other half dis- 
solve the soda, stir in just flour enough to knead, roll about one- 
half inch thick, cut in oblong cards, and bake in a quick oven. 



GINGER BREAD. 143 

ALUM GINGER BREAD 2. 

1% pounds butter, Water to dissolve alum, 

yi pound soda, Flour to make stiff, 

)4 cup sweet milk, 2 tablespoons ginger, if desired, 

1 teaspoon alum, ( 1 egg, 

1 gallon molasses or strained < An equal quantity of sweet 



honey, ( cream. 

Dissolve the soda in the milk, and the alum in just enough water 
to cover it, use flour to make dough stiff enough to roll out ; put 
the molasses in a very large dish, add the soda and butter melted, 
then all the other ingredients; mix in the evening and set in a 
warm place to rise over night ; in the morning knead it a long 
time like bread, roll into squares one-half an inch thick, and bake 
in bread pans in an oven heated about right for bread. To make 
it glossy, rub over the top just before putting it into the oven the 
well-beaten egg and sweet cream, stirring cream and egg well to- 
gether. This ginger bread will keep an unlimited time. The 
recipe is complete without ginger, but it may be used. Over 50 
years old, and formerly used for general muster days. 

EXCELLENT GINGER BREAD 1. 

1 cup sugar, 5% cups flour, 

1 cup butter, 6 eggs, 

1 cup buttermilk, 2 teaspoons soda, 

2 cups molasses, Ginger and cinnamon to taste. 

EXCELLENT GINGER BREAD 2. 

2 eggs, Yt teaspoon ginger, 

y 2 cup sugar, 1 teaspoon cinnamon, 

% cup N. O. molasses, Y teaspoon soda, 

l / 2 cup cream, Hot water to dissolve soda, 

Y cup sour milk, Flour. 

Stir together the sugar and well-beaten } T olks, add the molasses, 
cream and sour milk, and mix thoroughly ; add ginger, cinnamon, 
and enough flour to make as stiff as plain cake ; then stir in thor- 
oughly the whites beaten stiff, and the soda dissolved in hot water. 
This is more difficult to make successfully than plain cake. If it 
is too thin, it is liable to fall ; and if too stiff it is not so good. 
Bake in 2 deep tins, and serve while warm. 



144 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

GINGER BREAD. 

1 cup molasses, 1 teaspoon soda, 

1 cup butter, 1 teaspoon ginger, 

1 cup sour milk, Flour to roll thin. 

Bake in a quick oven and cut in squares. 

GINGER CAKE. 
1 cup N. O. molasses, 6 tablespoons shortening, 

1 cup sugar, 1 teaspoon cinnamon, 

1 cup sour milk, 1 teaspoon ginger, 

1 heaping teaspoon soda, Sifted flour. 

Make batter of medium thickness, and bake in a moderately hot 
oven. 

SOFT GINGER BREAD 1. 

\ l /z cups molasses, 1 teaspoon soda, 

%. cup brown sugar, 1 teaspoon ginger, 

% cup sweet milk, 1 teaspoon cinnamon, 

% cup butter or lard, 1 teaspoon cloves, 

3 cups flour, 1 teaspoon allspice. 

Bake in a dripping pan. The cloves and allspice may be 
omitted if so desired. 

SOFT GINGER BREAD 2. 

1 egg, Yi cup sour milk, 

y 2 cup molasses, 1 teaspoon ginger, 

l / z cup sugar, 1 heaping teaspoon soda, 

y 2 cup shortening, Pinch of salt, 
Flour. 

Make as stiff as cream cake, and bake in a slow oven 30 min- 
utes. 

SORGHUM CAKE. 

1 cup sweet milk, % teaspoon cinnamon, 

1 cup sorghum, 2 teaspoons soda, 

Flour to make a stiff batter. 
This is very nice if eaten warm. Sorghum cakes should con- 
tain neither grease nor eggs to be palatable. 

SORGHUM GINGER BREAD. 

1 cup molasses, 1 tablespoon soda, 

1 cup sugar, 1 teaspoon cinnamon, 

1 cup cold water, 1 teaspoon cloves, 

1 cup butter, or beef drippings, Pinch of salt, 

1 tablespoon ginger, 5 cups flour. 



GINGER BREAD. 145 

Bake in a rather quick oven. Can be baked in gem pans if de- 
sired. 

SPONGE GINGER BREAD. 

1 cup sour milk, 2 eggs, 

1 cup N. O. molasses, 1 teaspoon soda, 

% cup butter, 1 tablespoon ginger, 
Flour. 

Make as thick as pound cake ; put the butter, molasses and gin- 
ger together, make them quite warm, add the milk, flour, eggs and 
soda, and bake as soon as possible. 

GINGER CAKES. 

1 pint butter or lard, 1 tablespoon soda, 

1 pint buttermilk, 2 tablespoons ginger, 

1 quart N. O. molasses, Flour to make stiff. 

Be sure to use buttermilk, not sour milk ; heat the molasses and 
buttermilk, and when boiling pour into a large pan in which the 
ginger and soda have been placed. The pan must be large to pre- 
vent running over. Stir in all the flour possible, then the butter 
or lard. When cold mould with flour and cut in cakes. Care 
must be taken to follow these directions implicitly, or the cakes 
will not be good. This excellent recipe was kept as a secret for a 
long time by a professional baker. 

GINGER COOKIES — 1. 

1 cup molasses, 4 eggs, 

1 cup white sugar, 2 tablespoons ginger, 

1 cup butter, 1 teaspoon soda, 
Flour. 

Use flour enough to make a soft dough, roll thin and bake 
quickly. May be made without the eggs. 

GINGER COOKIES 2. 

1 cup N. O. molasses, 2 eggs, 

1 cup brown sugar, 3 teaspoons soda, 

2 cups thick, sour cream, 2 tablespoons ginger, 
1 heaping cup butter, Flour. 

Mix soft and bake in a quick oven. 



146 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

GINGER DROPS. 
% cup sugar, 2 eggs, 

% cup butter, 2 teaspoons soda, 

1 cup molasses, 1 teaspoon ginger, 

1 cup boiling water, 1 teaspoon cinnamon, 
2% cups flour, 1 teaspoon cloves. 

Dissolve the soda in the boiling water, add the eggs, well 
beaten, just before baking. Baked in gem pans, or as common 
ginger bread, and eaten warm with a sauce, they make a nice 
dessert. 

GINGER SNAPS 1. 

8 ounces butter, 2 teaspoons ginger, 

4 ounces sugar, 1 teaspoon cloves, 

6 ounces preserved orange peel, 1 teaspoon soda, 
1 pint molasses, 2 tablespoons boiling water, 

1 pound and 6 ounces flour. 
Dissolve the soda in the water, soften the butter and mix it with 
the sugar and molasses, add the spices, orange peel and soda, beat 
well and stir in the flour ; flour the board and roll the paste as 
thin as possible, cut in circles and bake in a very quick oven. 
This quantity makes one hundred and twenty-nine snaps, about 
three inches across. 

GINGER SNAPS 2. 

1 egg, M cup boiling water, 

1 cup molasses, 1 tablespoon soda, level, 

1 cup sugar, 1 tablespoon ginger, 

1 cup butter and lard mixed, Flour to mould out rather soft. 
Roll thin and bake quickly. 

GINGER SNAPS 3. 

6 pounds flour, 1 quart molasses, 

\% pounds butter, 4 ounces ginger, 

1% pounds sugar, 1 nutmeg, grated, 

Cinnamon to taste. 

GINGER SNAPS 4. 

2 cups N. O. molasses, 2 teaspoons cinnamon, 
1 cup butter and lard, 2 teaspoons soda, 

1 cup white sugar, 3 tablespoons water, 

1 teaspoon ginger, 2 tablespoons vinegar, 

1 teaspoon allspice, Flour. 

Mix all together except flour and sugar ; add flour to make stiff, 
then the sugar, make in a roll, cut off small pieces, flatten them 



NUT WAFERS. 147 

slightly, place in tins 1 inch apart and bake in a moderate oven. 
When cold, put in a covered jar, let stand a few days and they are 
ready for use. 

MOLASSES COOKIES. 
2 cups N. O. molasses, 1 teaspoon soda, 

1 cup sugar, 1 tablespoon ginger, 

)4 cup butter, 3 eggs, 

y A cup cold water, Flour to roll out. 

Do not roll too thin, bake in a quick oven. 

PEPPER NUTS. 
1 cup citron, chopped fine, 1 teaspoon soda, 

1 teaspoon ground pepper, Hot water to dissolve soda, 

4 eggs, Flour to mould into small balls. 

NUT WAFERS. 
I cup brown sugar, % teaspoon salt, 

1 cup nut meats, 2 tablespoons flour, 

3 eggs. 
Beat the eggs thoroughly and add the sugar, salt, flour and nut 
meats. If not stiff enough to drop in a firm mass, add more flour, 
and drop in small quantities on well-buttered paper. Bake about 
5 minutes in a quick oven. 



CONEECTIONEKY. 

THE "sweet tooth" of the world has not only created a de- 
mand for candies, but requires them to be made from pure 
materials, and according to scientific methods. The secret of suc- 
cessful candy -making lies in understanding the action of heat 
upon sugar, and the effect of certain things on boiled sugar. A 
sugar boiler's thermometer is desirable in home work, if candy is 
to be frequently made and in a considerable quantity. The exact 
degrees of heat for producing certain results can then be easily as- 
certained. In order to help all who wish to make candy, the 5 
degrees Fahrenheit used by confectioners will be given, and as far 
as possible, the directions for testing without a thermometer. 

1st. The Smooth : 215 to 220 degrees F. 

2nd. The Thread : 230 to 235 degrees F. 

3rd. The Feather : 240 to 245 degrees F. 

4th. The Ball : 250 to 255 degrees F. 

5th. The Crack : 310 to 315 degrees F. 
The Smooth degree indicates a thick syrup ; dip the stem of a 
clay pipe into the syrup, and if it feels oily to the touch the degree 
is reached, and may be used for crystallizing purposes. The 
Thread is known when the syrup, taken from the pipe by the 
thumb and finger, parts quickly and hangs in small threads. The 
Feather is indicated by the greater tenacity of the thread, so that 
it can be drawn out in long, fine hairs, without breaking. Cream 
for chocolate candies and fruits is taken from sugar at this degree. 
The Ball degree is reached when on drawing the pipe through the 
sugar and dipping it into cold water, the sugar dropping from it 
can be worked like putty. This is used in making cocoanut can- 
dies, icing, and almost any variety of grained candies. The Crack 
must be tested in like manner; the sugar must leave the pipe 
clean, and when dipped in water, and bitten, must break off 
sharply without sticking to the teeth. The soft and hard Crack 

148 



CONFECTIONERY. 



149 



are its first and last degrees. Beyond this point the sugar turns 
yellow and rapidly crystallizes, and when tested in water shows 
softer, and more brittle. If allowed to boil to 320 deg. F. it 
reaches a point called Caramel, and must not be allowed to remain 
longer on the fire. Caramel is used for coloring candies, and mak- 
ing brown sauces and gravies. Sugar boiled to the Crack is used 
for making drops, rocks, toffies, and all clear candies. Sugar 
boiled beyond 250 degrees will grain in a hard lump. Cream of 
tartar prevents this by cutting the grain. Its action makes the. 
sugar easily worked while warm, and transparent when cold. One 
quarter ounce or two teaspoons of cream of tartar is sufficient to 
use with eight pounds of sugar. Let the fire be firm and steady, 
before putting on the sugar to boil, so as not to need additional 
fuel ; the quicker the boiling is through, the better is the color and 
durability of the sugar. If it should catch at the bottom of the 
pan, lift it off, and shake a few ashes over the fire. Dark sugars 
require longer boiling and are very liable to burn. Let the heat 
be applied only to the bottom of the pan ; otherwise particles may 
be burned on the sides and spoil the whole material. In making 
caramels, the hotter the fire, the lighter the color ; and the smaller 
the quantity, the finer the flavor. For a small quantity use a small 
pan in cooking, as there is less danger of burning; it must be 
large enough to allow for the expansion of boiling without the con- 
tents running over the sides. Caramels are a delicate confection, 
and require careful attention. Fruit candies are much finer when 
made from pure fruit juices and not from extracts. All color and 
flavoring, except chocolate and nuts, is put in after the boil is re- 
moved from the fire. In pouring candy on to the slab or platters, 
never scrape the pan or allow any of the scrapings to fall into the 
material. Avoid stirring or disturbing syrup that is intended for 
clear candies. Grease plates or slab with perfectly fresh, sweet 
butter or the finest olive oil. For boiling sugar use a granite 
saucepan or one made of bright copper. For stirring, a wooden 
spatula is preferable to a silver spoon. Have a large hook placed 
firmly in the wall in a convenient place for pulling candy; also 
keep waxed paper in which to wrap caramels or other candies. 
Two confectioners' pouring plates, or a marble slab, will be a great 



150 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

convenience, and improve the nicety of the candy. A pair of 
sharp scissors will be very helpful. The first step in the manufac- 
ture of all boiled candies is the same, and consists of cooking the 
sugar to such a consistency as will enable it to be easily handled, 
and used in any form desired. Unless otherwise indicated, granu- 
lated sugar is intended to be used in the accompanying recipes. 
The following is a good foundation recipe for all boiled candies, 
whether cream or clear : 

2 pounds sugar, 1 pint water, 

14 teaspoon cream of tartar. 

Put the sugar and water in a saucepan over a steady fire, and 
stir till well dissolved. If any impurities rise after passing 
through the first boil, skim at once, as great cleanliness is neces- 
sary to nice candy. Stir no more. Boiling a few minutes reduces 
the mixture to a perfect solution, which is called simple syrup and 
can be used for crystallizing fruits. To make rock candy, boil the 
syrup until it hangs in soft threads ; if allowed to cool then, crys- 
tallization will take place on the sides of the pan. If, instead, the 
boiling is continued until the syrup on being tested in cold water, 
stretches out iu a long fine thread, or can be worked with the fin- 
gers, cream candies or cream can be made ; it must be quickly re- 
moved from the fire and either poured on a slab or set away in the 
saucepan to cool rapidly. "When cool enough to bear the heat 
with the hand, work it with the spatula as fast as possible, until it 
becomes white, stiff, smooth, and shining. If taffy or clear candy 
is desired, add cream of tartar at the Feather point and continue 
boiling to the Crack degree. The greatest skill is required to 
bring the sugar to this point without allowing it to reach the cara- 
mel state. If the sugar, on testing in cold water, becomes brittle 
and snaps when bitten, it is done ; add the desired flavor, and pour 
out the boil on a well-oiled pan or slab, and when nearly cold mark 
in three-quarter inch squares with a knife, or a regular caramel 
cutter. If instead of a clear, a white candy is desired, when the 
mass is cooled sufficiently to handle, throw it over the hook, pull 
out, throw over again and again, taking a fresh hold each time and 
letting the sugar slide into the bulk each time a fresh hold is 
taken. The sugar should be white and porous when done, and of 



CONFECTIONERY. 151 

a satiny appearance. The fine color and nice appearance depend 
upon the rapidity of the operation. If the sugar sticks, dust the 
palms of the hands with a little flour. "Practice makes perfect " 
in this art. If the mass becomes cool and stiff, hold it near the 
fire until softened sufficiently to continue working. The bulk of 
candy is increased by working, though it weighs no more than the 
clear varieties. 

For clear stick candy, pour the mass, after coloring and flavoring, 
into square tins to a sufficient depth for the thickness of the stick. 
When cool enough to retain its shape, cut with a spatula, or a 
chopping knife, marking as desired. When cold a light stroke 
will separate it at the lines. For round sticks, roll the mass into 
a cylindrical form, draw down, pull out, and cut off at the desired 
length. 

To make drops, give the mass an oval shape, draw out, and cut 
off with a quick blow by a sharp knife, as fast as possible ; or 
pour the candy while warm, drop by drop, on greased tins. For 
white sticks, or drops, color the mass before cooking, but work the 
flavor into it when pulling, as it must go through that process be- 
fore cutting into the desired shapes. All pulled or worked can- 
dies are flavored during that operation. Butter is used in making 
ice-cream, milk or cream in caramels, and brown sugar in many 
nut candies. If confectioners' sugar is called for, buy the best, 
for though mixed with a little starch, because of its adhesive qual- 
ity, it is not harmful, but the inferior grades are badly adulterated. 
Gum arabic is used in making marshmallow and other varieties of 
paste, also in gum drops. 

To candy nuts : first prepare and warm them, that thej^ may be 
ready for the boiling sugar. Boil cream of tartar in the sugar, 
and take off a little under the Crack ; drop in the nuts, a few at a 
time, take out and lay on a cold plate till set. It is necessary to 
work rapidly. If a darker shade is desired, let the sugar pass the 
crack and begin to turn yellow. Work must be very rapid after 
this point. 

To candy fruits : take sugar prepared as for nuts, and use 
oranges, grapes, cherries, or any fruit from which the juice does 
not run too freely. Great care must be used in preparing them, 



152 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

and discard any fruit having the least break. Peel and quarter 
oranges, and let dry a few hours, so as to take out the seeds with- 
out starting the juice. Dip into the candy, and lay on an oiled 
plate. Break grapes into bunches of two or three, dip, and when 
well coated with the sugar, hang on a line, or treat as oranges. 
Cherries are prepared in a similar manner to grapes. 

Though the preference is given to the boiled sugar for creams be- 
cause of its finer quality and durability, full directions will be 
found for the uncooked creams. Many prefer this method as it is 
more rapid and easier than the boiling process. The basis of all 
uncooked candies is a cream made of confectioners' sugar. To the 
whites of two or more eggs, add exactly an equal quantit}* - of 
water, and stir in slowly enough sugar to make a firm, soft paste, 
easily moulded by the fingers. Flavor to taste, mould into balls, 
lozenges, squares, or any forms wished, and lay upon waxed paper 
to dry. Part of the cream can be put aside for use with figs, 
dates, or nuts; another part can be flavored with fruit juices; 
some can be used with jellies, and melted chocolate will make the 
balls into nice chocolate creams. These are but few of the uses 
to which it can be put, and an ingenious worker can manufacture 
all the varieties desired. Flavoring extracts must be used in very 
small quantities. Cocoanut, if from the nut, should be prepared 
the day before using. Small quantities are more easily handled, 
and a second or third cream can be quickly made. 

COLORING. 

For candies and other articles of food only harmless vegetable 
colors should be used. These can be obtained in paste form from 
many bakers and confectioners. 

CARAMEL. 

Put four ounces of sugar into an old iron or tin pan, which 
must be perfectly clean. Have the fire of good heat and stir the 
sugar with a smooth stick until it changes from a light to a very 
dark brown, and boils up vigorously. Draw to one side of the 
stove, stirring constantly lest it boil over. Add little by little 1 
cup of hot water, boil slowly 4 minutes and strain. This will be a 
sjo-up and if diluted should give a clear brown color. When cold, 



CONFECTIONERY. 153 

bottle for use. It will keep any length of time. Used to color 
candies, broths, sauces, etc. 

GREEN. 

Spinach green is perfectly harmless. Take a few leaves, wash 
thoroughly, drain off the water, pound in a mortar, and add a little 
salt to a cup of the juice ; put in a saucepan over the fire and stir 
till it curdles. Drain on a hair sieve. Press what remains on the 
sieve through it and mix with half the quantity of powdered sugar. 
Put away in a cold place. 

RED. 

20 grains cochineal, 15 grains cream of tartar, 

20 grains alum, 1 gill soft water. 

Mix the ingredients and boil in an earthen dish slowly 30 min- 
utes. Strain through muslin, or filter, and cork tightly. 

YELLOW. 

Put a little saffron into an earthen dish with a little boiling 
water ; let it stand on the back of the stove several hours ; when 
ready, strain, add sugar to make a syrup, and bottle when cold. 

Cream color is obtained by using a very slight quantity of saf- 
fron. Brown sugars give a yellowish tint to candies in which they 
are used. 

Fruit juices make a nice coloring for icings and confectioneiy. 

TO CLARIFY SYRUP. 

Put the white of an egg into any muddy liquid or syrup, and on 
boiling, the impurities either rise to the surface or sink to the bot- 
tom. 

RECIPES FOR CONFECTIONERY. 

BURNT ALMONDS. 
2)4 pounds sugar, 1% pounds almonds, 

1 pint water. 
Remove the shells but not the skins from the almonds and warm 
slightly before using. Boil the sugar to the ball degree, and stir 
in the almonds with a wooden spoon. Stir so as to keep the al- 
monds from sticking and detach the sugar from the bottom and 
sides of the pan. Coat thoroughly with sugar, turning them over 
and over. When a crackling sound is heard, remove the pan from 
the fire, and stir till the sugar appears like coarse sand. Turn out 



154 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

the contents of the pan on a wire sieve, and cover with paper for 
5 minutes. Then pick out the almonds, and return the sugar to 
the saucepan with only sufficient water to dissolve it. Repeat the 
first process and give almonds a second coating, being careful to 
keep them separated. If this should be repeated 3 or 4 times 
the almonds will have a thicker coating. In order to make them 
crinkly, boil 2£ pounds of sugar to the crack ; put the almonds 
into a pan and pour over them this syrup in two coats, stirring 
each time. Burnt almonds are often colored red. 

CREAM ALMONDS. 

Roast almonds till the meat is brown ; take cream made as for 
chocolate creams ; roll out in a sheet and cut into pieces 1 inch 
square by one-fourth inch thick ; wrap the almond smoothly in this 
cream. Put in a warm place to harden, and finish by crystallizing 
in syrup, or, while moist roll in granulated sugar. 

GRILLED ALMONDS. 

1 cup blanched almonds, 1 cup sugar, 

1 cup water. 

Dry the almonds thoroughly. Cook the sugar and water till it 

flies in long threads from the spoon ; throw in the almonds, cook 

them in the syrup, stirring occasionally. As soon as they begin 

to turn a pale yellow brown take immediately from the fire, or they 

will lose their flavor ; stir until the syrup has turned to sugar, and 

crystallizes around the nuts. This is a very nice French recipe. 

SALTED ALMONDS. 

1 cup blanched almonds, 1 heaping teaspoon salt, 

1 teaspoon sweet butter or oil. 

Drv the almonds thoroughly, put them in a bowl, and stir in the 
butter, melted, coating each one; mix thoroughly with the salt, 
lay on a tin plate, and place in a moderately hot oven. Shake and 
turn the pan occasionally. Take out when golden brown, pick 
out the almonds and throw away the -loose salt. Almonds pre- 
pared this way are delicious. 

POP-CORN BALLS. 

Boil N. 0. molasses, any quantity desired, to the soft ball ; 
have ready freshly parched corn and put the perfect kernels into a 
large tin pan ; pour over a little of the boiled molasses. Mix thor- 



CONFECTIONERY. 155 

oucrhly with forks or spoons, adding more candy as it is needed. 
The balls can be made of equal size by filling tightly a pint meas- 
ure; then empty and squeeze the corn into a firm ball with the 
hands. Set aside to harden when finished. 

CREAM BONBONS. 

1 pound sugar, * CU P water ' 

Flavoring. 
Boil without stirring, after the sugar is dissolved, to a point be- 
tween the feather and the soft ball. Remove from the fire, let 
cool slightly, add flavoring, and rub to a cream against the sides 
of the pan with a wooden spoon. Roll small pieces of this cream 
into round or oval balls, and drop into powdered sugar before set- 
ting away to harden. 

CANDY OF ANY FLAVOR. 
3K pounds refined sugar, 1H pints water, 

1 teaspoon cream of tartar. 
Mix in a vessel large enough to hold the candy when expanded « 
by the heat ; boil over a brisk fire, taking care that it does not 
burn. The heat should be applied at bottom and not at the sides. 
After boiling 15 minutes, remove a small portion of the melted 
suo-ar with a spoon, and cool by dropping in cold water. Take a 
portion between thumb and finger, and if it forms a thread as it 
separates, the process is nearly done, and great care must be used 
to control the heat so that the boiling may be kept up without 
burning. Test frequently by dropping a bit into cold water ; if it 
becomes hard and brittle, snapping apart when bent, it is clone and 
must be removed at once, and the flavoring stirred in. Then pour 
into shallow earthen dishes, thoroughly but lightly greased, and 
cool until it can be handled ; pull, roll into sticks or make into any 
desired shape. Or, omit the cream of tartar, and when the sugar 
can be worked like putty on being tried in the water, take from the 
fire, cool slightly, flavor, and stir to a soft but firm white cream. 
This can be made into bonbons, and chocolate or fruit creams. 

CHOCOLATE ICE-CREAM CANDY. 
2% pounds sugar, 1 pint water, 

X pound butter, % teaspoon cream of tartar, 

% pound chocolate. 
Boil all the ingredients except the butter 10 minutes; add but- 



156 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

ter ; the mass will begin to froth and will occupy double the pre- 
vious space ; boil to a soft crack, and pour on a well-greased plate 
or slab ; knead into it the powdered chocolate. When cool 
enough throw over the hook and pull, flavoring with vanilla while 
working. 

EVERTON ICE-CREAM CANDY. 

1 lemon, 1)4 pounds sugar, 

2 ounces butter, \)4 teacups water. 

Squeeze the juice of lemon into a cup ; boil the sugar, butter 
and water together with one-half the rind of the lemon, and when 
done, which may be known by its becoming quite crisp when 
dropped in cold water, set aside till the boiling has ceased ; stir in 
the juice of the lemon ; butter a dish and pour on about 1 inch 
thick. When cool, take out peel and pull till white. Draw out in 
sticks and check every 4 inches with a knife. The fire must be 
quick and the candy stirred all the time. 

ICE-CREAM CANDY. 
2 cups sugar, 1 tablespoon vinegar, 

1 cup water, 1 teaspoon cream of tartar, 
Flavoring, Butter, size of a nutmeg. 

This must not be stirred while cooking. Boil about 25 minutes 
or until it hardens when dropped in cold water. Work as soon as 
possible after taking from the fire. Flavor while pulling. 

HOARHOUND CANDY. 

2 ounces dried hoarhound, 3 pints water, 
Granulated sugar, Lemon juice. 

The proper method is first to make a decoction of the hoarhound. 
Boil 20 minutes, then strain and press off the liquid through a 
hair sieve. To each pint of this take 2 pounds sugar ; place upon 
the fire and stir till the sugar is dissolved ; when it boils add the 
juice of half a good-sized lemon. Boil to the hard crack, being 
careful to keep the sides of the pan perfectly free from the minute 
crystals deposited there by the steam from the boiling sugar ; this 
can easily be done by washing them occasionally with a wet 
sponge or cloth. As the sugar comes to the hard crack, pour it 
upon a cold, greased marble slab, and when cool enough turn in the 
edges and cut the batch into suitable bars or squares. 



CONFECTIONERY. 157 

MAPLE SUGAR CANDY. 
1 cup maple sugar, X cup water, 

Small bit of butter. 
Boil about 10 minutes. It must not be stirred. When done, 
pour into buttered tins, cool and mark in squares. 

MOLASSES CANDY. 
1 cup molasses, Butter, size of a nutmeg, 

1 cup sugar, 1 teaspoon vinegar, 

% teaspoon soda. 
Put all the ingredients but the soda into the saucepan, boil 
hard, stirring all the time, until it hardens when dropped in cold 
water. Just before taking off the fire, add soda. Pull if wished, 
or pour over nut meats. 

OLD-FASHIONED MOLASSES CANDY. 

1 quart N. O. molasses, % teaspoon soda, 

Flavor to taste. 
Boil molasses over a steady fire to the soft crack. Dissolve 
soda in a little hot water, and add when pouring out to cool. 
Flavor. When cool enough to handle, pull till the desired color. 
This requires longer boiling than if sugar is used. Do not stir 
while boiling and keep partially covered. 

PEANUT CANDY. 

Use the recipe for Molasses Candy, but avoid stirring candy 
while boiling. Fill oiled pans- three-fourths full of shelled and 
skinned nuts. Pour over the boiling candy and set away to cool. 

PECAN NUT CANDY. 

2 pounds brown sugar, 1 pint kernels, 

K pound butter, % cup boiling water. 

'Put sugar and water into a saucepan and boil hard 15 or 20 
minutes before adding butter ; then boil 5 minutes longer. Stir 
well, adding the nuts. After it boils up, pour the mass on to 
small buttered plates or tins, and set away to harden. Walnut 
candy may be made according to this recipe. 

VANILLA SUGAR CANDY. 
2 pounds granulated sugar, % cup water, 

X cup vinegar, Butter, size of an egg, 

1 tablespoon glycerine, 2 tablespoons vanilla. 

Boil all except vanilla, without stirring, 20 minutes, or till crisp 



158 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

when dropped in water. Just before pouring upon platters to 
cool, add a small teaspoon of soda, and the vanilla. This can be 
pulled beautifully white. Make in strips and cut with shears. 

FOUNDATION CARAMEL SYRUP. 
1% pounds sugar, 1)4 cups cream or milk, 

x /i teaspoon cream of tartar. 
Dissolve these, boil rapidly, stirring constantly until it reaches 
the soft crack. Do not boil too hard. Pour out to cool in layers 
about one-half inch thick. C ut into thick squares or cubes when 
nearly cold. To make chocolate caramels, add to this before boil- 
ing, 3 ounces melted chocolate. For lemon and vanilla caramels, 
add to the given rule very strong extract of these flavors. Cocoa- 
nut caramels are made by stirring into the syrup, when the soft ball 
is reached, 3 ounces of the nicest grated cocoanut. This must be 
added to the syrup gradually, to prevent its lumping. For maple 
caramels use maple in place of the white sugar. 

CHOCOLATE CARAMELS 1. 

1 cup grated chocolate 2 cups sugar, 

1 tablespoon butter, 1 cup molasses, 

1 tablespoon vanilla, K cup cream or milk. 

Boil until it hardens in water, pour into buttered pans ; before 
it is cold mark off in little squares. 

CHOCOLATE CARAMELS 2. 

1)4. cups grated chocolate, 4 cups brown sugar, 

Vyi cups cold water, Butter size of an egg, 

1 tablespoon sharp vinegar, 2 tablespoons vanilla. 

Put sugar, chocolate, water, butter and vinegar into a saucepan ; 
boil over a brisk fire until brittle when tried in water ; do not stir, 
but shake the vessel gently while cooking. Just before removing 
from the fire, add the vanilla. Pour into a well-buttered and 
floured dripping pan, and check off in squares while soft. 

COCOANUT CARAMELS. 

1 pint milk, Butter size of an egg, 

1 cocoanut, grated fine, 3 pounds white sugar, 

2 teaspoons lemon. 

Boil slowly until stiff, then beat to a cream, pour into shallow 

pans and when partly cold, cut in squares. Desiccated cocoanut 

may be used, if preferred. 



CONFECTIONERY. 



159 



COCOANUT CONES. 

1 pound powdered sugar, H pound grated cocoanut, 

Whites of 5 eggs. 

Whip the eggs to a stiff froth ; add the sugar gradually, and 

beat in the cocoanut. Mould with the hands into small cakes or 

cones, and lay upon buttered paper far enough apart to prevent 

touching. Bake in a very moderate oven. 

HICKORY NUT CONES. 
1 egg, X cup flour, 

1 cup sugar, 1 cup nuts sliced fine. 

Stir all together, drop on buttered tins, 1 teaspoon in a place 2 
inches apart ; or, roll and bake like sand tarts. 

CHOCOLATE CREAMS 1. 

2 cups sugar, H cup milk, 

}<£ pound Baker's chocolate. 
Boil the milk and sugar 5 minutes, and stir until stiff ; mould 
in balls and drop on buttered plates to cool. Break chocolate in 
small pieces into a bowl and set over a boiling teakettle ; melt, but 
do not allow the chocolate to cook ; roll the balls in it, and lay 
them on plates to harden. 

CHOCOLATE CREAMS — 2. 
2 cups white sugar, Vz cup water, 

X cup cornstarch, Lemon, 

M pound chocolate. 
Put water and sugar on stove, boil about 3 minutes, stirring 
constantly. Add the cornstarch, flavor with lemon and work very 
quickly into little cones. Have ready the chocolate, melted ; dip 
in the cones and lay on a plate to harden. 

CHOCOLATE DROPS. 

2% cups granulated sugar, 1 cup cold water, 

% cake Baker's chocolate. 
Boil sugar and water from 5 to 10 minutes. Test. Place the 
saucepan in cool water, beat till cold enough to make into little 
balls ; take one-half cake chocolate, shave fine into a bowl, and set 
in top of teakettle to melt ; this must not boil. When balls are 
cool enough, roll in the chocolate with a fork. Or, mould the un- 
broken halves of walnut meats into the creamed sugar, and when 
cold, dip into the chocolate. Take out and lay on buttered paper 
till cold. 



160 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

JELLY DROPS. 

Crab apple, very firm jelly of any kind, and stiff marmalade may 
be cut into small cubes, rolled thickly in granulated sugar, and 
laid for 2 or 3 days in a cool, dry place. These are nice, -and look 
pretty to mix with other candies. 

PASTILLE DROPS. 

Make these from the finest sugar, as their delicacy depends on 
the fine and melting grain. Put 1 pound powdered sugar into a 
saucepan with just enough water to make a thick paste. Add now, 
drop by drop, whatever flavoring is desired, whether peppermint, 
rose, clove, sassafras, wintergreen, coffee or ginger, but flavor 
lightly. Stir until thoroughly mixed to see if flavored rightly. 
If too much water is added the drops will not harden. Put this 
paste on the fire, stir constant^, let cook, but do not allow it to 
boil. When liquid enough to pour easily, take off and pour it, in 
large or small drops, upon sheets of tin or ordinary writing paper, 
cutting off the stream of sugar at each drop with a knitting needle 
held in the right hand. A little practice will enable one to make 
the drops uniform. Fruit Pastille Drops may be made by using 
the juice of the fruit in place of water. 

CANDIED FLAG ROOT. 

1/^ pounds sugar, 1 pint water. 

Fresh sweet flag. 

Take the freshly gathered root, cut in small pieces, pour over 
boiling water, and let stand 15 minutes. Make a syrup, and when 
boiling hot put in the roots allowing for sufficient syrup to cover 
them. Boil carefully from 1^ to 2 hours, or until tender. Pour 
off the syrup, allow the flag to dry, or, after a few minutes roll in 
fine sugar ; or if but little S3 T rup is left, it may be allowed slowly 
to evaporate by boiling and the bits of flag will then be coated 
with crystallized sugar. Ginger may be candied in a similar 
manner. 

LOZENGES. 

1 ounce gum arabic, 4 tablespoons hot water, 

1 pound best powdered sugar. 
Dissolve gum in water, strain, and make a paste of the gum so- 
lution and sugar, by working it with a strong spoon until possible 



CONFECTIONERY. 161 

to knead thoroughly with the hands. It must be smooth and flex- 
ible when done. Work in the flavor, and color, if desired tinted. 
Sift sugar upon a smooth moulding board. Lay on the dough, 
sift sugar over it, and roll with the pin till one-eighth of an inch 
thick. Sift over a little more sugar, polish with the hand, and 
cut with a cutter into any shape desired. Dry in a moderately 
warm place. If the paste crumbles in kneading, add a little more 
of the gum solution ; if it is soft or sticky, use more sugar. 

BALTIMORE KISSES. 
4 eggs, whites, Yz pound granulated sugar, 

Essence of lemon. 
Beat eggs to a high, firm froth, stir in the sugar, flavor with 
lemon or rose, continue to beat until very light ; then drop a table- 
spoon of the mixture at intervals of 1 inch, on well-buttered letter 
paper. Lay the paper on one-half inch boards, and place in a 
slow oven ; bake 1 hour, watch, and as soon as they begin to look 
yellowish take them out. Or, beat to a stiff froth the whites of 
2 eggs, stirring into them very gradually 2 teacups powdered 
sugar and 2 tablespoons cornstarch; bake on buttered tins 15 
minutes in a warm oven, until slightly brown. 

COLTSFOOT LOZENGES OR ROCK. 

Take one-fourth ounce dried coltsfoot and simmer in 4 table- 
spoons water for 10 or 15 minutes. Add sufficient water to keep 
the amount of 2 gills, strain, and dissolve 1 ounce gum arabic; 
then work in 1 pound of sugar according to the rule for lozenges, 
and proceed as in directions for lozenges. If a very strong solu- 
tion is desired, use twice the quantit} r of coltsfoot. Make lozenges, 
or if rock is preferred, roll out in long sticks. 

ALMOND MACAROONS. 

1 pound blanched almonds, Rose-water, 

1 pound powdered sugar, Whites of 6 or 7 eggs. 

It is a tiresome process to prepare the almonds, therefore it is 

best to do it the day previous to using. After blanching put in a 

mortar, pound fine, adding a little rose-water by degrees. When a 

smooth paste is formed stir in the sugai\ Add to the well-beaten 

whites the almond paste and work thoroughly together. Drop 

from the spoon on buttered paper. Leave a good space between 



1G2 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

them. Dip the hand in water, pass gently over the surface of the 
macaroons, making it smooth and shining, or brush with the white 
of an egg. Bake one-half hour in a slow oven. 

CHOCOLATE MACAROONS. 

3 ounces Baker's chocolate, 3 eggs, whites, 

1 pound powdered sugar. 

Melt the chocolate over a slow fire ; beat eggs and sugar to a 

thick paste, stirring in the chocolate. Sift sugar dust on to the 

moulding board, and roll the mixture out one-fourth inch thick; 

cut in small round pieces with a paste cutter ; butter a pan and 

dust it slightly with flour and sugar equally mixed ; put in the 

paste, and bake in a hot but not quick oven. Serve cold. 

COCOANUT MACAROONS. 
1 pound powdered sugar, 2 cups sifted crackers, 

Whites of 6 eggs, Extract of almonds, 

1 pound fresh grated, or desiccated cocoanut. 
Beat eggs very stiff; mix all the ingredients together, adding 
not more than 2 teaspoons of the extract. Drop on well-greased 
paper on tins, and bake in a moderate oven 15 or 20 minutes. 
These should be of a light brown color and a firm consistency. 

HICKORY NUT MACAROONS. 

Hickory nuts, Mixed ground spice, 

Nutmeg. 

Pound hickory nuts fine and add spices. Make frosting as for 
cakes, stir in meats and spices, adding enough to make it conven- 
ient to handle ; flour the hands and make the mixture into balls 
the size of nutmegs ; lay on buttered tins, giving room to spread, 
and bake in a quick oven. These are delicious. 

MARSHMALLOWS. 
yi pound gum arabic, % pint water, 

% pound sugar, 2 eggs. 

Dissolve gum arabic in the water, by heating over a slow fire 
and stirring constantly. When dissolved, strain and add the pow- 
dered sugar, cooking in a double boiler. Cook, stirring constantly, 
until it becomes a thick paste that will not stick to the fingers 
when touched. Flavor with orange or rose, then add gradually 
the well-beaten whites of 2 eggs. Pour into a pan slightly dusted 
with starch, and when cool divide into squares. These can be 
rolled in sugar dust and packed in boxes. 



CONFECTIONERY. 163 

CREAMED NUTS. 

Remove the thick inner covering of the nuts, after shelling 
them, by throwing into scalding water, letting stand for 2 or 3 
minutes, and rubbing off the skins with the fingers. Make a 
foundation cream, roll it into balls, place the meats of nuts on the 
sides of the ball, pressing them firmly together. Or, the}' ma} T be 
incased in the center of the ball. Almonds and English walnuts 
are generally used, but any nut can be used. For nut bars, use 
the same cream, into which has been stirred the whole or chopped 
meats, and pour into wide shallow tins lined with paper which pro- 
jects 1 inch at each end of the pan. When cold, lift out the paper 
and cut in bars. Cocoanut bar is made by stirring into the cream 
before sufficiently worked, 1 cup of coarsely-grated cocoanut, and 
then working all together until done. This hardens rapidly after 
the cocoanut has been put into the cream. Creamed Fruits are 
made by taking out the seeds and filling the cavity with the 
cream. 

BARLEY SUGAR. 

1 quart barley, 4 or 5 quarts water, 

Sugar. 
Soak the barley 3 minutes in a little lukewarm water, and drain. 
Put it into a saucepan with the water mentioned above, set over a 
good fire, and cook till the barley is almost mush ; take off from 
the fire, mash and strain as well as possible. If sufficiently 
cooked the liquid will become a jelly. Mix the jelly with sugar 
and fry it. It is better than almost any other kind of cand}\ 

COCOANUT STEEPLES. 

3 pounds pure white sugar, 1)4 pints water, 

IK pounds finely-grated cocoanut. 
Place sugar and water over a fire and stir until the sugar is dis- 
solved ; boil to the soft ball ; remove from the fire and let stand 
until boiling ceases. Then rub and work a small portion of the 
sugar against the side of the pan, by means of a small wooden 
spoon, till it granulates ; stir this granulation into the body of the 
sugar; when it assumes a whitish or milky appearance, stir in 
quickly the grated cocoanut ; beat well and rapidly together, after 
which pour it into a pan. When cold, stir and work all together 



1 64 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

once more. Now form with the hands small cones or steeples, 
and place them a little distance apart upon sheets of stout paper. 
In an hour or so they will become dry enough for use. 

BUTTERED TAFFY. 
4 pounds white sugar, 1 quart water, 

1 teaspoon cream of tartar, 1 tablespoon vanilla extract, 
1 pound butter. 
Boil sugar, water, and cream of tartar together, stirring all the 
time; then add vanilla or other flavoring. Boil to the crack, 
adding the butter, either cut in pieces or melted, and as soon as it 
is thoroughly incorporated and boiled into the sugar, pour upon a 
greased marble slab ; when sufficiently cool, turn in the edges and 
mark, or cut into squares. 

GLORIOUS VANILLA TAFFY. 

2 cups sugar, % ounce powdered gum arabic, 

1 cup cream, 2 teaspoons vanilla. 

Stir gum arabic into the sugar, adding the cream last ; when 
well mixed set over the fire ; cook as rapidly as possible without 
burning. Do not stir it, but shake a little if in danger of it. Try 
in cold water, and take off when it becomes crisp on pulling out. 
It must not cook long enough to become brittle when dropped in 
the water. As soon as the bubbling ceases add vanilla, stirring as 
little as possible. Pour on well-buttered plates or tins. Work 
rapidly to avoid graining. If desired creamy instead of crisp, stir 
before pouring. When sufficiently cool mark off in little squares. 
Wrap in waxed paper. 

GENUINE EVERTON TOFFEE. 
2 pounds light brown sugar, 1 pound butter, 

Juice of ]4 lemon, Dessertspoon vanilla. 

Put the sugar and butter into a bright, clean, round-bottom cop- 
per basin ; melt together over a moderate fire, stirring constantly 
with a wooden spoon; add the lemon juice and vanilla. Ten 
minutes' boiling will bring it to the desired degree, the "crack" ; 
pour it upon a buttered marble slab, and, when cool enough, turn 
in the edges, and cut or mark the batch into small square tablets. 



DESSERTS. 

A TEACHER in a well-known cooking school gives as her 
opinion that every housekeeper should be able to make a 
different dessert for each day in the year. While a knowledge of 
three hundred and sixty-five recipes for making desserts may not 
be quite as important as she seems to think, there is no doubt that 
the majority of our cooks do not give that branch of their work 
the attention it deserves, and so great care has been taken to make 
this department very complete. 

CREAMS AND CUSTARDS. 

Very few people know how great a variety of desserts maj 
be made from a simple combination of custard. The great se- 
cret in a baked, boiled or steamed custard is slow cooking. To 
attain this it is essential that the custard should be cooked in a 
dish set in boiling water, which completely obviates all danger of 
burning. The rule for custard is exceedingly simple and need not 
be varied for baked or boiled custard. 

1 quart fresh milk, 6 tablespoons sugar. 

Yolks of 6 eggs, 1 saltspoon salt, 

Flavoring. 

All the ingredients must be of the best and freshest quality. 
The whites of the eggs can be added to the custard, but as they 
do not enrich it and are of no especial value in it, it is more eco- 
nomical to use them as a meringue or in white or delicate cakes. 
The process of making a custard is very simple, yet it is com- 
mon to see this dish put on the table wheyed or spoiled, because 
of a failure to attend to the especial minutue in making it. The 
milk should be new and brought to the boiling point. The yolks 
of the eggs should be beaten with the sugar and salt, and the 
boiling milk poured gradually over them and beaten into them, 
and it should then be strained. A flavor of nutmeg may be added, 

165 



166 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

or a stick of cinnamon, a portion of vanilla bean, or a little of the 
chipped yellow outer peel of a lemon may be boiled with the mi!k. 
For baking, pour the custard into earthen cups, set in a pan of hot 
water, and bake in a moderately hot oven ; for steaming, cook fif- 
teen minutes over boiling water ; or make into a boiled custard by 
stirring the custard in a double boiler till it thickens. This will take 
five or six minutes. The custard should be continually beaten all 
the time that it is cooking and until it has cooled. These custards 
may be made more ornamental by adding a meringue and brown- 
ing it lightly in the oven afterward. This is no addition, except 
to a lemon custard, which is nice served with a meringue flavored 
with lemon juice. Almost any fruit jelly or fine marmalade, or 
any fresh fruit, is nice served with custard. 

The number of delicious desserts that may be made with a 
foundation of cream is almost innumerable. There is something 
particularly nice in whipped cream served with any kind of sweet 
fruit. Preserves of all kinds are excellent with whipped cream, 
yet it is comparatively rare to see them served in this way. Char- 
lotte Kusse becomes the simplest of deserts when once the art of 
beating cream is acquired. This can be done with an ordinary 
eo-o- whip, or a Dover egg-beater, but most persons can succeed 
better with a cream churn, which should be a cylinder at least three 
and one-half inches across, and about ten inches long. Cream can 
be rapidly beaten in such a churn. As the froth rises skim off on 
a sieve, and place over a pan to drip. There is always some cream 
in a quart that will not froth, and this will drain into the pan and 
should be used for coffee or^ some other purpose. It is not neces- 
sary to beat cream to a froth in making ice cream, or in making 
desserts in which cream is used. An iced or cold rice pudding 
made with a mixture of whipped cream and boiled rice properly 
flavored is one of the best desserts made. 

Creams and custards should always be beaten in stone or 
earthen ware to ensure their essential lightness. When gelatine is 
used in creams, soak it for an hour in a little cold water or milk, 
set in a warm place ; it is convenient to place the bowl in the top 
of the boiling teakettle, and when dissolved, pour into the hot cus- 
tard just after removing from the stove. 



DESSERTS. 167 

The "zest" used in flavoring is the name given to sugar satur- 
ated with the oil of lemon or orange peel, obtained by rubbing the 
rind with lumps of sugar. 

ARROWROOT BLANCMANGE. 
1 quart milk, 2% tablespoons arrowroot, 

1 tablespoon sugar, 1 tablespoon rose-water, 

Salt to taste. 
Dissolve the arrowroot in 1 gill of milk, and heat the remainder ; 
when it boils add the arrowroot, stir in well and cook a few mo- 
ments before adding the sugar, rose-water and salt. Pour into 
moulds and set in a cool place. 

CHOCOLATE BLANCMANGE. 

3 eggs, 5 tablespoons grated choco.ate, 
% cup sugar, 1 quart milk, 

% ounce gelatine, 1 teaspoon vanilla. 

Soak the gelatine in 1 cup of the milk, and bring the remainder 
to a boil. Beat yolks of the eggs and sugar thoroughly and add 
first the gelatine, then the chocolate dissolved in a little of the 
boiling milk and stir all together rapidly. Pour the hot milk over 
the mixture, beat well and strain. Cook as for boiled custard, 
stirring constantly. When partly cool, add vanilla and the beaten 
whites. Pour into wet moulds and set on ice. To be eaten with 
plain or whipped cream. 

CORNSTARCH BLANCMANGE. 

1 quart milk, Salt to taste, 

4 tablespoons cornstarch, Cinnamon to taste, 
4 tablespoons sugar, Jelly. 

Scald the milk and add the sugar, salt, cinnamon, and the corn- 
starch moistened with cold milk ; boil 4 minutes, stirring all the 
while. Rinse in cold water as many cups as desired, and nearly 
fill with blancmange. Let them stand until cold, turn upside 
down on saucers or little pudding dishes, and on top of each place 
one-half teaspoon of bright red jelly, pour around them sweetened 
cream, flavored with lemon extract. 

IRISH MOSS BLANCMANGE. 
3 quarts milk, Sugar, 

1 small handful Irish moss, Cream, 

Wash the moss, soak 15 minutes in lukewarm water, shake dry, 



168 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

and put into a custard kettle with the milk ; stir occasionally and 
cook slowly till it will jell slightly when dropped on a cold plate. 
Strain through a sieve, sweeten to taste. Pour into a mould 
which has been rinsed with cold water, and set in a cool place for 
several hours. Eat with sugar and cream, and a little tart jelly. 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE 1. 

X box gelatine, 3 eggs, 

yi pint milk, 2 dozen lady fingers, 

3 pints cream, Lemon or vanilla to taste, 
Vz pound powdered sugar, Jelly if desired. 

Split the lady fingers, or substitute slices of sponge cake, and 
line a mould. Dissolve the gelatine in the milk. Whip the cream 
to a froth, and set on ice ; beat the yolks of eggs, mix with the 
sugar and add the well-beaten whites ; strain the gelatine upon 
these, stirring quickty ; add the cream, flavor and fill the mould. 
Let stand upon ice 2 hours and serve with whipped cream. The 
bottom of the mould may be lined with jelly. 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE 2. 

4 eggs, whites, 1%. cups powdered sugar, 

1 ounce gelatine, 1 pint thick sweet cream, 

2 gills boiling milk, Eose-water or vanilla, 

Sponge cake. 

Dissolve the gelatine in the boiling milk, beat the whites stiff, 
whip cream to a froth and line a large mould with thick slices of 
sponge cake ; mix gelatine, sugar, cream and flavoring together, 
acid lightly the frothed whites, pour into the mould and set away 
on ice till required for use. This is an easy and excellent mode of 
making this most delicate dessert. 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE 3. 

)4. pound powdered sugar, 2 eggs, whites, 

1 pint rich cream, % teaspoon almond, 

Sponge cake, or lady fingers. 

Sweeten and flavor the cream before whipping, add the stiff 
whites and beat all thoroughly together; pour into a mould lined 
with thin slices of sponge cake, or lady fingers, and set in a cool 
place till firm. 



DESSERTS. 169 

APPLE CREAM. 

1 pound cooking apples, 1 ounce gelatine, 

yi pound sugar, 1 lemon, 

Yi pint cream, Little boiling water, 

Cochineal. 
Peel, quarter and core the apples, put into a stewpan with sugar 
and the rind and juice of 1 lemon ; set on the stove and let simmer 
gently. When the apples are quite soft, pass through a sieve into 
a bowl, put on ice till cold. Whisk the cream to a firm froth ; add 
gelatine melted in the water, and the apple pulp. If desired, color 
a little of the mixture with the cochineal, pour it in a mould and 
set on ice. When firm, add the white portion. Serve when cold. 

CHOCOLATE BAVARIAN CREAM. 
)4 box gelatine, 1J£ cups sugar, 

% cup cold water, 1 pint cream, 

}i cup boiling water, 4 tablespoons grated chocolate, 

Vanilla. 
Whip the cream to a froth and keep cool ; dissolve the chocolate 
in a little boiling water; soak the gelatine in the cold water 1 
hour, add the boiling water, sugar, and vanilla ; set on the stove 
to thicken, stir in the chocolate, remove from the stove, let cool, 
and beat in the whipped cream. Pour into a mould to stiffen. 

BOHEMIAN CREAMS. 

1 quart cream, 4 eggs, yolks, 

1 ounce gelatine, 2 tablespoons sugar, 

1 vanilla bean, or extract of vanilla. 

Dissolve the gelatine in water, whip one-half the cream to a stiff 
froth ; boil the other half with the sugar and a vanilla bean, or va- 
nilla extract may be added after it is removed from the fire. Add 
the gelatine, and when cooled a little stir in the well-beaten yolks. 
As soon as it begins to thicken, stir steadily until smooth, when 
add the whipped cream, beating lightly. Mould and set on ice 
until ready to serve. 

To flavor with strawberries, strain 2 pounds berries through a 
colander, sweeten to taste, add the dissolved gelatine, set on ice; 
when it thickens stir until smooth, add the whipped cream as 
above, and mould. 

To flavor with peach, boil 18 cboice peaches, sweeten and strain 



170 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

through a colander, add the dissolved gelatine, a teacup of cream, 
and set on ice ; when it thickens stir until smooth, add the whipped 
cream, and mould. 

To flavor with pineapple, grate fine, boil with half a pound of 
pulverized sugar, strain through a colander, adding the dissolved 
gelatine, set on ice, and when it thickens stir until smooth ; add 
the whipped cream, and mould. Canned pineapples may be used 
instead of fresh. In all these never add whipped cream until the 
mass is cool and begins to thicken. 

BUTTERCUP CREAM. 
2 cups cold milk, 2 tablespoons sugar, 

2 eggs, 1 tablespoon lemon, 

• )4, cup crystal gelatine. 
Dissolve the gelatine in the milk ; heat, and when boiling pour 
slowly over the beaten yolks and sugar. Beat the whites stiff, 
flavor and whip into the custard, and pour into a mould. Serve 
with jelly. 

COFFEE CREAM. 

\yi cups cream, % cup water, 

1 cup strong, hot coffee, % cup sugar, 

% ounce gelatine. 

Soak the gelatine in the water till dissolved, pour it into the 

coffee, add the sugar, cool, strain and stir in the cream, which may 

be whipped or plain. Fill the moulds, and set in an ice box or 

cold place over night. 

HAMBURG CREAM. 
1 cup sugar, 8 eggs, 

2 lemons, juice and grated rind. 

Stir together the rind and juice of the lemons and sugar, add 
the well-beaten yolks of the eggs ; put all in a tin pail, set in a pot 
of boiling water, stir for 3 minutes, take from the fire, add the 
well-beaten whites of the eggs, and serve, whe\i cold, in custard- 
glasses. 

ITALIAN CREAM. 

% box gelatine, 8 eggs, 

Y% cups sugar, 2}i pints milk 

Flavor to taste. 

Soak the gelatine one-half hour in one-fourth pint cold milk, put 

the remainder on to boil, and when boiling stir in yolks of the 



DESSERTS. 171 

eggs well beaten, the sugar and gelatine ; when custard begins to 
thicken, take off and pour into a deep dish in which the whites 
have been beaten to a stiff froth ; mix well together and flavor to 
taste ; put in moulds, and allow 4 hours to cool. This cream is 
much more easily made in winter than in summer. 

ORANGE CREAM. 

% pint cream, 1 lemon, 

3 tablespoons sugar, 3 tablespoons gelatine, 

3 oranges, % pint water. 

Squeeze the juice from the lemon and oranges, letting the rind 
of 1 orange soak in the juice of the oranges 1 hour ; boil the gela- 
tine in water and cool ; whip the cream to a froth, stir all together, 
pour into a mould and set on ice to cool. 

RICE CREAM. 

1 quart sugar, yi. cup raw rice, 

2 quarts whipped cream, ^ box gelatine, 

Yz teaspoon salt. 

Boil the rice in an abundance of water; when it has boiled 10 
minutes pour off the water, add 1 pint of milk, put it in a double 
boiler, and cook for three-quarters of an hour with a little of the 
yellow rind of a lemon to give flavor; when done, remove the 
lemon peel, add the gelatine, which should have soaked 1 hour in 
half a cup of cold water ; add also the sugar and salt. Put in a 
pan of cold water and salt, and stir it till it is thoroughly chilled. 
Then beat in the whipped cream. The rice must be added lightly 
to the cream so as not to break down the froth. Pour into little 
cups or one large mould and set it away on the ice until it has 
hardened. It should be firmer than jelly. It is delicious served 
with strawberries and whipped cream, or a golden orange jelly and 
whipped cream. This is an especially ornamental dessert served 
in a large mould on a low glass platter, with strawberries or jelly 
and whipped cream wreathed around it, or if preferred, make a 
sauce with a cup of mashed strawberries, strained into a quart of 
whipped cream and properly sweetened. Let the white mould 
rise from the center of this sauce. 



172 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

ROCK CREAM. 

1 cup rice, Jelly, 

2 tablespoons sugar, 5 eggs, whites, 

1 saltspoon salt, 3 tablespoons powdered sugar, 

Milk, 1 tablespoon rich cream, 

Flavor to taste. 

Boil the rice in a custard kettle, in sweet milk, until soft, add 
sugar and salt ; pour into a dish and place on it lumps of jelly ; 
beat the whites of the eggs and powdered sugar to a stiff froth, 
flavor, adding cream, and drop the mixture on the rice. 

SPANISH CREAM. 
1 quart milk, 4 eggs, 

14 box gelatine, 1 cup sugar, 

Vanilla to flavor. 
Soak gelatine in the milk for 30 minutes, heat, beat yolks and 
sugar together and add to the boiling milk, stir and cook until it 
thickens; take from the fire, add the whites beaten very light, 
stirring them in thoroughly, flavor and put in a mould to cool. 
Or, a meringue may be made of the beaten whites, the juice of 1 
lemon, and one-half cup of sugar ; pour over cream and brown 
slightly in the oven. 

VELVET CREAM. 
y 2 box gelatine, y z cup powdered sugar, 

H cup cold water, 2 cups cream, 

Yz cup boiling water, Flavor with vanilla or bitter almonds. 

Soak the gelatine in cold water, add the boiling water, stir till 
clear, and let cool. Have the cream very cold, add sugar and 
beat to a stiff froth ; whip it into the gelatine, flavor, put in wet 
moulds and set on ice. 

WHIPPED CREAM. 

To whip cream successfully, use good rich cream. Set it on 
ice several hours before using. Sweeten and flavor to taste, put in a 
large bowl and beat with an egg-beater ; as the froth rises remove 
to a second bowl, or if desired to be very stiff, place on a sieve 
and return all that passes through to the bowl to be beaten again. 
"When the cream is not very thick, or it is difficult to whip, add to 
it and beat with it the white of 1 egg, or soak one-fourth ounce of 
gelatine for 1 hour in one-half cup cold milk, then set the cup of 



DESSERTS. ^ 

gelatine and milk into boiling water over a fire, and stir till dis- 
solved ; cool, and whip into the cream. Set it on ice or in a very 
cold place. It may be served in various ways. Baked apples, 
and fresh or preserved berries are delicious with it. Jelly-glasses, 
one-third full of jelly and filled up with cream, make a very whole- 
some and delicious dessert. 

APPLE CUSTARD — 1. 

1 pint apples, 4 e SS s ' 

1 pint milk, 1 teaspoon butter, 

K cup sugar, Flavor if desired. 

Stew tart apples and put through a sieve, mix in the proportions 
given and bake 20 minutes. 

APPLE CUSTARD — 2. 
8 or 10 large apples, 3 e &£S, 

1 quart milk, Su & ar ' 

Flavor to taste. 
Pare and core the apples and put in a deep dish ; fill the centers 
with sugar, add a very little water, and bake till done. Make 
custard with the eggs, milk, 4 tablespoons sugar, and a little cin- 
namon or nutmeg; pour over the apples while hot and bake till 
the custard is done. Serve cold. 

ALMOND CUSTARD. 

1 quart milk, 6 eggs, well beaten, 

2 cups sugar, 1 tablespoon lemon extract, 

% pound almonds, blanched and pounded. 
Mix these ingredients together and bring to a boil, take from 
the fire and stir till lukewarm ; put into cups or a mould to cool. 
If desired, cover with the whites of 4 or 5 eggs, well beaten, just 
before serving. 

BAKED CUSTARD 1. 

1 quart milk, 5 tablespoons sugar, 

4 eggs Flavor to taste. 

Beat the sugar and eggs together, scald the milk and pour over 
the other ingredients, stir together well and pour into china cups. 
Set the cups in a pan of hot water, grate a little nutmeg upon each, 
or flavor with lemon or vanilla, and bake till firm. Eat cold from 
the cups. Or, add a little more sugar, pour the custard into a 
basin or pudding dish, set the dish into a dripping-pan of hot 
water and bake in a moderate oven. Try with a straw ; if milky 



174 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

it is not done. It should quiver like jelly when sufficiently 
cooked. 

BAKED CUSTARD 2. 

1 quart milk, 3 eggs, 

1 cup sugar, Nutmeg. 

Heat the milk, be^t the eggs very light, add the sugar and nut- 
meg, stir all into the milk when boiling hot, strain and bake. 

BANANA CUSTARD. 

1 quart milk, 4 tablespoons sugar, 

2 eggs, 1 tablespoon cornstarch, heaping, 

3 bananas. 
When the custard is cool pour it over the fruit sliced thin. 

CHEAP CUSTARD. 

1 pint milk, 4 tablespoons sugar, 

2 eggs, 2 tablespoons flour, 

Flavor with lemon or vanilla. 
Put the milk into a double kettle, let it come to a boil, beat the 
eggs and sugar, stir into the milk, wet the flour in cold milk, see 
that there are no lumps in it, then stir into the milk and cook 3 or 
4 minutes. Flavor when cool. 

COFFEE CUSTARD. 
4 eggs, 1 cup cold coffee, 

% pint milk, Sugar to taste. 

Cook as for boiled custard. 

CORNSTARCH CUSTARD. 

1 quart milk, 4 tablespoons sugar, 

2 eggs, Butter size of a hickory nut, 

2 tablespoons cornstarch, % teaspoon salt, 

» Flavor. 
Wet the starch in a little of the milk, heat the remainder to near 
boiling, in a pail set in boiling water. The proper heat will be in- 
dicated by a froth or film rising to the top ; add the starch till it 
thickens, stirring constantly, then the eggs, well beaten with the 
sugar ; butter and salt ; cook, stir briskly, take off and beat well 
and flavor. Served with grated cocoanut it is very nice. 

HOMINY CUSTARD. 

3 tabl.espoons hominy, Sugar, 

Salt, Flavoring, % 

Milk, Jam or stewed fruit. 

To 1 pint of milk add hominy and salt; boil gently until it 



DESSERTS. 175 

thickens, then add more milk, cook until sufficiently thick ; add 
sugar, and flavor to taste. Pour into a mould and serve cold 
with jam or stewed fruit. 

ORANGE CUSTARD. 
4 oranges, % cup sugar, 

4 eggs, Powdered sugar, 

1 quart milk. 
Peel and slice the oranges into an earthen dish. Sift fine sugar 
over each layer. Make a custard, using 2 whole eggs and the 
yolks of 2 more, well beaten, milk and the sugar. Flavor with 
vanilla ; steam until done and pour over the oranges. Beat the 
whites of 2 eggs and sweeten with fine sugar, pour over the cus- 
tard when cool and set in the oven 5 minutes. A little orange 
juice in the frosting improves it. If desired, leave out 1 egg and 
add 1 tablespoon cornstarch. 

RICE CUSTARD. 
X cup rice, 4 tablespoons sugar, 

1 quart milk, 4 tablespoons powdered sugar, 
4 eggs, 1 teaspoon vanilla, 

Pinch of salt. 
Put the rice in the milk and add salt ; steam until soft ; just 
before taking from the fire add the yolks of eggs beaten with the 
sugar, and mix thoroughly ; flavor ; do not cook it any more. 
Pour into pudding dish and cover with the whites, beaten stiff 
with the powdered sugar ; brown slightly in the oven, and serve 
cold with tart jelly. 

SNOW CUSTARD. 

2 cups sugar, \}i pints milk, 
}4 box gelatine, 1 lemon, juice, 
1 cup cold water, 3 eggs, 

1 pint boiling water, Vanilla. 

Soak the gelatine 1 hour in the cold water, add the boiling water, 
stir until thoroughly dissolved, add two-thirds of the sugar, and 
the lemon juice ; beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and 
when the gelatine is quite cold, whip it into the whites, a spoonful 
at a time. Whip steadily and evenly, and when all is stiff, pour 
in a mould, or in 1 dozen egg glasses previously wet with cold 
water; set in a cold place. In 4 or 5 hours turn into a glass 
dish. Make a custard of the milk, yolks of eggs, the remainder 



176 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

of the sugar, flavor with vanilla, and when the meringue or snow- 
balls are turned out of the mould, pour this around the base. If 
desired, omit the beaten whites, and pour the jelly into the mould. 
Serve with the custard, or a whipped cream, or the whites, well 
beaten, and sweetened with 3 tablespoons powdered sugar. 

STEAMED CUSTARD. 

5 eggs, 1 quart milk, 

% cup sugar, Vanilla or lemon. 

Put the milk over the fire in a double kettle ; when boiling, add 
the sugar and the eggs, well beaten. When it begins to thicken, 
remove from the fire, cool and flavor. Pour into custard cups and 
place in a steamer over boiling water. Steam until thick and 
firm ; cool and grate nutmeg over the top of each, if desired. 

STEAMED CUSTARD. 
Custard. 

6 eggs, yolks, 1 cup sugar, 

3 cups milk, % cup grated cocoanut, 

Pinch of salt. 
Steam and frost. 

Frosting for Custard. 

6 eggs, whites, Sugar, 

Cocoanut. 

To the beaten whites add sufficient sugar and cocoanut to 
stiffen. 

GOOSEBERRY POOL. 

Gooseberries, Cream, 

Sugar, Gelatine, 

Milk to dissolve gelatine. 

Remove stems and blossoms from gooseberries, stew to a thick 
pulp, sweeten to taste, and put through a sieve, if desired. 
Sweeten to taste and whip the same quantity of cream as goose- 
berry pulp, dissolve gelatine as for Whipped Cream, and add in the 
proportion of 2 tablespoons to 1 quart of whipped cream. Re- 
serve one-fourth of the whipped cream, add gooseberry pulp to the 
remainder gently, taking care not to break it down. Put into cus- 
tard glasses, and heap each glass with the whipped cream. Set on 
ice till served. 



DESSERTS. 177 

FLOATING ISLAND. 
6 eggs, Salt to taste, 

1 quart milk. Flavor to taste, 

Sugar, Grated cocoanut, 

2 tablespoons powdered sugar. 
Make a custard of the yolks of eggs, milk, salt and sugar ; beat 
and strain yolks before adding to the milk ; place custard in a 
large pan, and set on the stove, stirring constantly until it boils ; 
remove, flavor with lemon or rose, and pour into a dish, a shallow, 
wide one is best, spread smoothly over the boiling hot custard the 
well-beaten whites ; powder with sugar, and add cocoanut, if de- 
sired. Set the dish in a pan of ice-water and serve cold. Or, 
prepare the whites by dropping a spoonful at a time on boiling 
water, lifting it out carefull}', when cooked, with a skimmer and 
la}ing it gently on the float. Or, pour custard into cups to cool, 
set whites on ice and just before serving beat very stiff with 2 
tablespoons powdered sugar ; heap upon custard in cups and serve 
at once. 

MOONSHINE. 

6 eggs, whites, Sugar, 

6 tablespoons powdered sugar, Vanilla, 

1 heaping tablespoon preserved peaches. 

Beat the whites of eggs in a broad plate to a very stiff froth, 
then add gradually the powdered sugar ; to make it thicker use 
more sugar ; beat not less than 30 minutes, and then beat in the 
preserved peaches cut in tiny bits, or 1 cup of jell}'. Set on ice 
until thoroughly chilled. In serving, pour into each saucer some 
rich cream, sweetened and flavored, and on the cream place a lib- 
eral portion of the moonshine. This quantit}' is enough for seven 
or eight persons. It combines a pretty appearance with palatable 
flavor, and is a convenient substitute for ice cream. 

SNOWBALLS. 
8 eggs, Sugar, 

1 pint milk, Orange water to flavor. 

Heat the milk until almost boiling ; flavor it with orange water ; 
have the whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff froth, drop them into 
the hot milk in large spoonfuls, turning them over carefully so 
they will swell. Skim out as soon as done and pile on a plate ; 



1 78 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

strain the milk, sweeten to taste, add the beaten yolks, ana cook 
the custard until creamy ; then pour it over the snowballs. 

APPLE SNOW. 

Snow. 

1 pint apple, % pint powdered sugar, 

3 eggs, whites. 

Bake some sour apples and put them through a colander ; beat 
eggs to a stiff froth ; add sugar and apples in the proportions given 
and beat together until stiff. 

Custard for Snow. 
4 eggs, yolks, 2 tablespoons sugar, 

1 pint milk, Vanilla. 

Cook in a double kettle and serve cold with the snow. 

COCOANUT SNOW. 
8 eggs, whites, Sugar, 

1 cocoanut, Rose-water, 

1 pint thick sweet cream. 
Grate cocoanut and sprinkle pulverized sugar lightly through it. 
Beat the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, add 4 tablespoons of fine 
sugar, beat well and flavor with rose-water. Take half the cocoa- 
nut and stir into it the cream whipped ; lay the remainder of the 
cocoanut lightly over this, and put the eggs and sugar over the top. 
Decorate the dish with bright-colored jelly. 

CUSTARD SOUFFLE. 

2 tablespoons butter, 4 eggs, 

2 tablespoons flour, 1 cup boiling milk, 

1 tablespoon sugar, A little nutmeg. 

Stir the butter and flour into a smooth paste, then add to it 
gradually, the boiling milk ; cook 8 minutes, stirring often. Beat 
sugar, nutmeg and the yolks of eggs together, add them to the 
cooked mixture, and set away to cool. When cool, add the whites 
of eggs, which have been beaten to a stiff froth ; bake the souffle 
in a buttered pudding-dish 20 minutes in a moderate oven. Serve 
hot with a creamy sauce. 

ORANGE SOUFFLE. 
10 eggs, 4 oranges, 

1 quart milk, Sugar. 

Make a boiled custard of the milk and eggs, leaving out the 
whites of 4 for frosting, and sweeten to taste ; when cool pour it 



DESSERTS. 179 

over 4 sliced oranges sprinkled with sugar, and the grated rind of 
2 ; cover with frosting, and place the dish in a pan of cold water 
and set in the oven until nicety browned. Put on ice or in a cool 
place until ready for the table. 

APPLE TAPIOCA. 
1 cup tapioca, Sugar, 

\y 2 pints warm water, Nutmeg, 

8 tart apples, Cream. 

Soak tapioca 3 or 4 hours in warm water, pare and quarter, or 
slice apples and put into a pudding dish. Sweeten tapioca to 
taste, add nutmeg, and pour over apples ; bake 1 hour, or till the 
apples are soft. Serve with sugar and cream. Or, beat the whites 
of "3 or 4 eggs stiff, add 3 tablespoons powdered sugar, spread over 
the top and brown slightly in the oven. Serve either hot or cold. 

BLACKBERRY TAPIOCA. 

l quart blackberries, small, 1 cup tapioca, 

Sugar, Cold water, 

Cream, 1 pint boiling water. 

Wash the tapioca and let stand over night in cold water. In the 
morning add boiling water, and simmer till the tapioca is clear. 
Sweeten blackberries and stir into the tapioca. Pour into a dish 
and serve very cold with cream and sugar. Apricots or straw- 
berries ma}' be used instead of blackberries if desired, and a hard 
sauce substituted for the cream. 

PRUNE WHIP. 

% pound prunes, Sugar, 

4 eggs, whites, Cream. 

Stew the prunes, sweeten to taste, and remove pits ; when per- 

fectly cold, add whites of the eggs beaten stiff, stir all together 

till light ; pour into a pudding dish and bake 20 minutes. Serve 

cold, eovered with good rich cream. 

TAPIOCA Willi'. 

3 tablespoons tapioca, 3 tablespoons powdered sugar, 

1 quart milk, 3 eggs, 

,' 2 cup sugar, Vanilla. 

Soak the tapioca in a little cold milk or water for several hours. 

Heat the milk, and when boiling add the tapioca and cook slowly 

until tender. Remove from the fire and stir in carefully the 

beaten yolks of eggs and one-half cup of sugar. Cook slowly for 



180 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

2 or 3 minutes, cool, and flavor. When cold beat into the tapioca 
one-half of the stiffly beaten eggs and powdered sugar; pour into 
glasses or a pudding dish and lay on the remainder of the whites. 
Or, all the meringue may be stirred lightly into the custard, or all 
heaped on the top. The meringue can be browned lightly in the 
oven before setting the whip away to cool. The tapioca is very 
nice served with whipped cream chilled by standing on the ice. 

PASTRY. 

As long as Americans have gained a reputation for being a pie- 
eating people, it is desirable that the pies themselves shall be 
well made. People mistake who consider pastry made with little 
shortening as particularly healthy. Crust which is tough and 
heavy is far more hurtful than that of a light, tender, and flaky 
composition. 

Use the best materials in making pastry. Butter and lard 
should be sweet, fresh, and solid. Have the water ice-cold, and 
make the pie-crust in a cool place. It is much improved by the 
addition of a small teaspoon of baking powder to one quart of 
flour. Pastry is nicer to stand two or three hours in a cold place 
after making, before using, and it may be kept in a close-covered 
dish in an ice-chest for several days, and be improved. Some 
brands of flour, though better for bread, will never make good 
pastry, and regular pastry flour will be found cheaper as well as 
nicer. Brush the lower crust of the pie with the white of an egg 
to prevent its becoming soggy, and a sprinkling of flour and sugar 
before filling prevents the leaking of juices. Dredge a little flour 
over fresh small fruits, after adding sugar, before laying on the 
upper crust ; it is nicer than cornstarch, and is absorbed better in 
the pie. For custard pie, sift flour, one tablespoon to a pie, into 
the sugar, and mix well together before adding the beaten eggs. 
This gives the consistency desirable in serving, and does not affect 
the taste. The milk for custard, squash, pumpkin or lemon pies 
should be hot when added to the other materials. Do not fill pies 
until ready to bake, and stewed fruit must be cool before using or 
the pastry will be sodden. 

Many cooks prefer in making pastry to omit some of the butter 



PASTRY 181 

from the general preparation, and cutting the paste into equal 
parts, roll the rest of the butter into one of them for an upper 
crust. Cut a piece from the other paste, roll from the center out. 
and cover the pie plate ; fit it well, and trim off the edges with a 
sharp knife. Cut off a piece from the richer paste sufficient for an 
upper cover, roll out and gently lay one half over the other. Cut 
through the fold five times near the center, in a slanting line. 
Fill the plate with the pie mixture, wet the top edge of the rim, 
laj- on the upper crust, turn back the half that was doubled over, 
and fold the upper edges carefully over the lower ones, or press 
them lightly together. The edge can be ornamented with the in- 
dentations of a three-tined fork. Glaze a pie by brushing it over 
with the white of an egg before baking. 

Use tin, not earthen, plates in baking ; dust them with flour, 
but never grease them. Slip the pies off to earthen ones as soon 
as baked to prevent the softening of the crust. 

A meringue is made in the proportion of one tablespoon of sugar 
to the white of an egg ; it should be spread upon the pie as soon 
as baked and returned to the oven to brown slightly. 

The oven is at the right heat for baking when twenty can be 
counted while holding the hand there, and the same temperature 
should be maintained throughout the baking ; this heat will give a 
rich brown color, and a flak}' appearance to the pie. It is of great 
importance that the oven should be at the right and steady heat to 
obtain the best results for the money, time, and work expended in 
preparation. 

puff paste. — 1. 

1 pound butter, 1 cup ice-water 

1 pound flour, 1 egg. 

Wash the butter, and set on ice. Have the ice-water read} - , and 
make the paste in as cool a place as possible. Weigh out the 
sifted flour, put into a large bowl, and break the egg into a hole 
made in the flour; work it in handling as little as possible. Add 
the ice-water, making a soft paste, and roll out. Divide the but- 
ter into ti parts, break 1 part into bits, and put on the paste. Dust 
with flour, fold paste from the sides to the center, and then in 3 
layers. Turn the sides round and roll out thin : break another 



1 82 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

part of the butter into bits and repeat the former process. In a 
similar way use the remaining parts of the butter, and after the 
final rolling and folding, set it in the ice box for 1 hour before 
using. Roll the upper crust of the pie quite thick, and if a fiat 
earthen plate is used lay two narrow strips of paste on the lower 
crust around the edge of the plate. The pie will be as nice if a 
plainer paste is used for the lower crust. This recipe makes nice 
tarts and patties. 

All puff paste requires a strong, steady heat to bake it nicely. 
puff paste — 2. 

% pound butter, % teaspoon cream of tartar, 

1 pound sifted flour, Ice-water. 

Free the butter from salt by working it in water, form it into a 
square lump, and place on ice to harden. Put the flour into a 
bowl, and rub 2 ounces of butter very thoroughly into it ; use 
enough water to make this of the consistency of the butter. 
Place the paste o*n the -board, dusting it under and over with flour, 
and roll out in a piece 12 inches long by 6 wide; flour the butter 
well, and roll in a sheet 8 inches long and 5 wide. Place the sheet 
of butter on the paste, leaving one-half inch at the top and sides 
uncovered, and a large space at the bottom ; mix cream of tartar 
with twice the quantity of flour, and sprinkle it evenly over the 
butter ; fold the large part of the paste not covered with butter 
over on the butter, fold the other part with the butter on it over 
that, to make 3 layers of dough and 2 of butter. Roll out to its 
original si?e, dust with flour, fold it as before, roll out again, dust 
with flour, and fold again ; repeat twice more, giving it 4 rollings 
and foldings ; when rolled for the last time, cut it through in 2 
even pieces, and place one on the other, and the paste is ready for 
use. In warm weather it is necessary to place it in a cool place 
after every second rolling, in very warm weather after each rolling, 
and sometimes on ice. 

puff paste — 3. 

3 pints flour, 2 eggs, yolks, 

3 teacups butter, A little salt. 

Sift the flour ; make a hole in the center, add the well-beaten 
yolks and enough cold water to make a soft paste. Dredge the 
board with flour, roll out the paste, being careful to flour the roll- 



PASTRY. 183 

ing pin and the hands. Lift the rolled paste to make sure that it 
does not stick. Knead the butter until it is soft and divide into 6 
parts. Spread one part on the paste, fold the edges till they 
touch one another, roll out, spread on another part of the butter, 
roll again, and repeat until all the butter is used. Roll this up 
and lay it over ice until nearly frozen, or put it in a cold cellar. 

GOOD PASTE — 1. 
1 nip lard, 1 C up butter, 

A little salt, 2 eggs, whites, 

5 cups flour. 
Work lard and butter lightly into the flour, beat whites of eggs 
in the water used for mixing, add a piece of soda size of a small pea 
and mix. Handle as little as possible. For the upper crust, roll 
in a little more butter. 

GOOD PASTE 2. 

1 pound sifted flour, J£ pound lard, 

K pound butter, 1 Lup wa ter, 

% teaspoon salt. 

Rub or cut the shortening into the flour, leaving out a little of 

the butter ; mix with a knife while adding the water ; roll out into 

a thin sheet, having board and pin well floured ; cut the remainder 

of the butter into little pieces and spread one-half on the paste, 

dredge with flour, roll up, and cut in halves ; divide one of these 

into 3 parts, roll these out and cover as many pie plates. Take 

the other half and dot with the bits of butter ; dust with flour, fold 

from the sides toward the center, roll thin, fold in 3 layers, and 

cut into 3 equal parts ; flour the ends, roll out and cover the pies. 

POTATO PASTE. 
3 cups sifted flour, 2 tablespoons butter, 

1 cup mashed potato, %, teaspoon salt, 

Ice-water or milk. 
Put the potato through a colander, and mix with the flour, but- 
ter and salt, adding enough liquid for a stiff paste. Roll out and 
use for meat pies. 

SUET PASTE. 

2)4 cups sifted flour, 1 ( . U p cold water, 

1 cup suet, chopped fine, i teaspoon salt, 

%, teaspoon baking powder. 
Put the salt and linking powder into the flour, lidding the suel 



184 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

from which every bit of fibre has been removed. Rub all together 
with the hands, and add water sufficient to make a firm, soft dough. 
Roll out. Nice for apple dumplings or meat pies. 
apple pie — 1. 
Select sound, tart apples ; pare and core without breaking them, 
allowing 4 for each pie. Put in a stewpan with a little lemon 
juice, a strip of yellow peel, some sugar and enough water to cook 
until they can be easily pierced. Quarter more apples, put them 
in another stewpan with lemon juice, peel, sugar, and enough water 
to cover ; stew these to a jam. Add a lump of butter and one- 
fourth the bulk of the apple in peach marmalade ; rub all through 
a colander. Line pie plates with good paste ; put on the bottom 
a layer of apple jam, set 4 whole apples in each pie, fill the cavi- 
ties in the apples and the spaces between with the marmalade. 
Put strips of the crust, one-half inch wide, in a lattice-work across 
the top between the apples, and trim the edge neatly with 1 or 
more layers of notched paste. Bake in a quick oven 20 minutes. 
See that it bakes eventy. Serve with cream. 

apple pie — 2. 

Tart apples, 1 teaspoon cinnamon, 

% cup sugar, Small bits of butter, 

1 tablespoon water. 

Line a deep plate with crust, sprinkle with sugar and flour, fill 

with sliced apples ; add sugar, cinnamon, butter, and water. Cover 

with pastry, and bake from 30 to 45 minutes. Or, line pans with 

crust, fill with sliced apples, cover with paste and bake ; take off 

cover, put in sugar, bits of butter and seasoning ; replace crust 

and serve warm. It is delicious eaten with sweetened cream. 

Crab apple pie, if made of ''transcendents," will fully equal those 

made from larger varieties of apples, but will require a full cup of 

sugar to each pie. 

apple cobbler. 
6 large apples, 1 cup sugar, 

1 teaspoon cinnamon, % teaspoon cloves. 

Pare and core the apples, and cut each into 8 pieces. Lay in a 
deep plate lined with paste, add sugar, spice and a little water. 
Cover with puff paste, and bake slowly for 1 hour. Serve with 



PASTRY. 185 

cream, or a sauce. Peach cobbler is made in a similar way, but 
the spices are omitted. 

APPLE CUSTARD PIE. 

1 cup sugar, Sour apples, 

3 tablespoons butter, 2 eggs, 

1 teaspoon cinnamon. 

Peel, core and stew the apples. Rub through a colander and to 
1£ cups of apple add the other ingredients. Beat well together. 
Bake with only one crust, using the whites of the eggs with 2 
tablespoons of sugar for a meringue. Brown nicely by returning 
it to the oven for a short time. Or, to 1 cup of strained apple 
add 1 cup each of sugar and cream, and 1 well-beaten egg ; mix in 
the given order. Flavor to taste, and bake 30 minutes in a mod- 
erate oven. 

DRIED APPLE PIE 1. 

Stew dried apples with a little lemon peel till soft, sweeten to 
taste, add a slice or two of lemon, put through a coarse sieve, stir 
in a beaten egg. add a piece of butter, and bake with 2 crusts. 

DRIED APPLE PIE 2. 

1 quart dried apple sauce, 1 cup raisins, 

2 cups sugar, 4 tablespoons melted butter, 

Flavor with nutmeg or lemon. 

Press the dried apple sauce through a sieve, add the other in- 
gredients, bake in 2 crusts and serve warm. 

DRIED APPLE PIE 3. 

% teacup mashed apple, 1 egg, 

1 cup sweet cream, Sugar to taste, 

Flavor with lemon. 

Beat the apple and egg together 3 minutes, add the cream and 
sugar and beat 2 minutes. This makes 1 pie ; bake with 2 crusts. 

APPLE MERINGUE PIE. 

Cook tart and juicy apples, put through a colander, add sugar, 
and flavor to taste ; fill the crust and bake. When done cover the 
apple with a meringue made of the well-beaten whites of 3 eggs 
and 3 tablespoons sugar. Put into a quick oven till the meringue 
is "set." and eat cold. In their season substitute peaches for 
apples. / 



1 86 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

BERRY PIES. 

Line a deep plate with crust, fill with alternate layers of clean 
fruit and sugar, using more or less sugar according to the acidity 
of the fruit; add 1 tablespoon of flour if the fruit is very juicy. 
Fill the crust to the top, and if a very deep dish is used, invert a 
cup in the middle. Cover with crust, and bake 45 minutes in a 
moderate oven. If huckleberries are used, a little lemon and gin- 
ger improves the flavor ; if blackberries, cinnamon and ginger are 
preferable. 

BLUEBERRY PIE. 

Stew the blueberries with sugar, and when done add a veiy little 
lemon juice. Do not use them until cold. Take rich pastry for 
both crusts, and before putting on the upper crust, sprinkle 1 
tablespoon of flour on the fruit, and dot with bits of butter. Bake 
in a quick oven. 

CHERRY PIES. 

These may be made of fresh, canned, preserved, or dried cher- 
ries. No flavoring is necessary. If fresh cherries are used they 
should first be pitted, and sprinkled with sugar. The pies are 
often made with two crusts ; but where the fruit is cooked, only 
one crust may be used, and a frosting added. Dried cherries 
should be stewed before using. Put them to cook in cold water 
for a few hours, and then let them cook slowly till done. 

CHERRY PIE — 1. 

The best pies are made from the common, sour, red cheny. 
Line a deep plate with good pastry, fill with cherries, carefully 
picked over, and sugar, in alternate layers. Shake over the cher- 
ries 1 tablespoon of flour, cover with paste and bake from 45 to 60 
minutes in a moderate oven. Serve cold with sifted sugar on the 
top. 

CHERRY PIE 2. 

1 teaspoon cornstarch, 1 tablespoon butter, 

1 quart cherries, 2 cups sugar. 

Line a deep plate with rich crust ; nearly fill with carefully 

pitted fruit, add sugar and the butter cut in small bits, sprinkling 

the cornstarch over all ; wet the edge of the crust, cover with 

paste, and press the edges closely together, taking care to provide 



PASTRY. 1 87 

holes in the center for the escape of the air. Pies from blackber 
ries, raspberries and other fruits are made in the same way, regu- 
lating the quantity of the sugar by the tartness of the fruit. 

CHOCOLATE PIE— 1. 

1 pint sweet milk, 2 tablespoons grated chocolate, 

% cup sugar, 3 eggs, 

Teaspoon vanilla. 
Heat the chocolate and milk together ; let it partly cool, add 
the sugar and eggs beaten to a cream, saving out whites of 2 for 
frosting ; add the vanilla. Bake with 1 crust. Whip whites of 
eggs to a stiff froth, with 2 small tablespoons powdered sugar. 
Spread on the pie and brown delicately. 

CHOCOLATE PTE 2. 

Melt .3 tablespoons of grated chocolate, being careful that it 
does not cook. Beat the white of 1 egg and 2 tablespoons of 
sugar thoroughly, and stir into it the melted chocolate. Spread 
this on the top of a custard. Vanilla flavoring can be used with 
the chocolate if desired. 

CINNAMON FLAKES. 
Puff Paste, Jelly, 

Cinnamon, Sugar. 

Take puff paste and roll out in circles or squares one-fourth inch 
in thickness. With the broad edge of a knife blade cross the sur- 
face with lines to form diamonds. Spread with jelly or jam. 
Sift on sugar, and sprinkle well with cinnamon. Lay on floured 
pans or flat tin sheets. Let the oven lie of a strong, steady heat, 
and bake thoroughly. This makes a very pretty dish for lunch or 
dessert. 

COCOA NUT PIE. 

1 pint milk, 1 cocoanut, grated, 

1 teacup sugar, 3 eggs. 

Mix cocoanut with yolks of eggs and sugar. Stir in the milk, 
lilling the pan even full, and bake. Beat whites of eggs to a 
froth, stir in 3 tablespoons of powdered sugar, pour over pie and 
bake to a light brown. If prepared cocoanut is used, 1 heaping 
teacup is required. 



188 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

CORNSTARCH PIE. 

1 quart milk, 2 eggs, 

2 tablespoons cornstarch, 2 cups sugar. 

Mix starch in a little milk, boil the rest of the milk ; beat the 
yolks of eggs and add starch, put in the boiled milk and add sugar. 
Bake with an under crust, beat whites with 2 tablespoons sugar 
and put on top of pies. Return to oven and brown. 

CRACKER PIE. 

2 large Boston crackers, rolled fine, 2 cups hot water, 

1% cups sugar 2 lemons, juice, and 1 grated rind, 

2 eggs, A pinch of salt, 

Nutmeg, Small piece of butter. 

Pour water on the crackers, add sugar and eggs well beaten. 
salt, lemons, and a little grated nutmeg. Line 2 plates with good 
paste, fill, put on bits of butter before laying on the upper crust. 
Bake 30 minutes. 

CRANBERRY PIE 1. 

1 large cup cranberries, heaping, % CU P water, 
1 large cup sugar, 1 tablespoon flour, 

Butter. 
Halve fine, firm, ripe cranberries, pour them into a mixing bowl, 
and add sugar, flour, and water. Mix all well together, and put 
into a pie plate lined with rich paste. Dot with bits of butter, 
cover with an upper crust, and bake in a moderate oven. 

CRANBERRY PIE 2. 

1 quart cranberries, 1 pint water, 

2 cups sugar, % CU P sifted flour. 

Stew cranberries in the water till tender ; while warm stir in the 
sugar and flour. Line deep tins with paste and pour in the ber- 
ries. Lay narrow strips of paste criss-cross on the top and bake. 
Or, sprinkle sugar on the bottom of a pie plate, put a thick la3 r er 
of fresh cranberries, a little flour, a small piece of butter, and a 
spoonful of water, then cover with a crust. When the pie is 
baked, put a plate over the top of the pie and turn it quickl} r up- 
side down, and thus secure a well-baked under crust. Ice it over 
the top with frosting made as for cake. 



PASTRY. 189 

CREAM PIE — 1. 
1 egg, white, 'K teacup sugar, 

1 tablespoon flour, l A teacup milk, 

)4 teacup cream. 
AL1 cream may be used instead of part milk. Bake with a bot- 
tom crust, grate nutmeg on top. 

CREAM PIE — 2. 

1 pint cream, \y 2 cups powdered sugar, 

3 eggs, whites, A little nutmeg. 

Stir sugar and cream together, let stand until whites of eggs 
have been beaten to a stiff froth; add this to the cream, beat up 
thoroughly and grate the nutmeg over the mixture. Bake in 2 
pies without upper crust. 

WHIPPED CREAM PIE. 

1 cup sweet cream, whipped, Powdered sugar, 
Lemon or vanilla. 
Have cream as cold as possible without freezing, sweeten and 
flavor to taste ; beat until as light as eggs for frosting and keep 
cool until the crust is ready ; make crust moderately rich, prick 
well with a fork to prevent blistering and bake. Spread over it 
the cream, and dot with bits of jelly. The above will make two 
pies. 

CRUMB PIE. 
1 teacup bread crumbs, 3 tablespoons sugar, 

1 tablespoon butter, J4 cup cold water, 
A little vinegar, Nutmeg to taste. 

Soak crumbs in warm water half an hour, add the other ingre- 
dients and stir well. Bake with 2 crusts made the same as for 
other pies. 

CURRANT PIE 1. 

% teacup flour, 1 cup sugar, 

% pint currants. Flavor or not to suit the taste. 

Line a deep plate with good, rich paste ; dust the flour over it. 
Sprinkle one-half cup sugar over flour, add the currants and 
the remaining sugar. Dust on a little more flour. Cover with a 
perforated crust and bake slowly 30 minutes. 

CURRANT PIE — 2. 

2 eggs, 1 cup sugar, 

1 cup ripe currants. 
bine a pie tin, dust one-fourth cup of flour over the bottom, 



190 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

upon which distribute the currants evenly. Beat the sugar and 
yolks of eggs thoroughly together and pour over the pie. Bake 
15 or 20 minutes. Whip the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, add 2 
tablespoons powdered sugar, spread evenly over the pie, return to 
the oven and brown slightly. 

GREEN CURRANT PIE. 

Line a deep plate with paste. Fill with currants and sugar in 
alternate layers, using at least two-thirds as much sugar as fruit. 
Heap the fruit, as it shrinks in cooking, and shake over the top 1 
tablespoon of flour. Cover with a top crust, pricked or slit, and 
bake in a moderate oven from 30 to 45 minutes. 

custard pie — 1. 
1 pint milk, 3 eggs, 

3 tablespoons sugar, A little salt, 

Flavoring to taste. 
Scald the milk over hot water ; beat eggs, sugar and salt to- 
gether, and pour slowly over them the scalded milk. Take a pie 
plate, at least 1 inch deep, line with nice pastry and fill with the 
custard. Bake in a moderately quick oven. If nutmeg is used, 
grate over the custard before putting into the oven. Or, make a 
custard by mixing one-half tablespoon cornstarch with 1 table- 
spoon of milk, and thicken the boiling milk ; after cooking, pour 
it over 2 beaten eggs, and finish as above. 
custard pie — 2. 
1 quart rich milk, 5 eggs, 

5 tablespoons sugar, A little salt. 

Heat milk in a tin pan set in a kettle of hot water; beat the 
sugar and eggs, and pour in the milk ; flavor to taste and bake. 
Cook slowly so as not to boil, as that spoils it. Test with a knife ; 
when done it will not stick to the blade. Without the crust, this 
makes a delicious baked custard, baked in a deep pan. 

WILD GRAPE PIE. 

Delicious pies can be made of wild grapes. Pick them from the 
stem, run them through a sieve to get out the seeds and skins. 
Add a cup of sugar to every quart of the pulp and cook them 15 
minutes, then can them. When wanted for pies, line the plate 
with crust, put in a little sugar and a dust of cinnamon, fill the 
plate half full of the grapes, and put strips of paste across the 



PASTRY. 101 

top. If two crusts are used, the pie is apt to leak. Grapes put 
up in this way are also very nice in the winter for mince pies. 

GRANGER PIE. 

1 cup fine bread crumbs, 1 cup hot water, 

1 cup molasses, 1 cup raisins, 

1 cup currants, 3^ cup butter, 

} 2 cup sugar, Spices of all kinds. 
Bake with 2 crusts, or with 1 , and frost the top ; afterward place 
dots of crimson jelly upon the frosting. 

HUCKLEBERRY PIE. 

Make crust as for any berry pie ; till with nicely prepared ber- 
ries, sprinkle with flour and sugar. Add a little water and 2 
tablespoons currant juice. Add a top crust and bake well. 
lemon pie — 1. 
\% cups sugar, 2 tablespoons flour, 

1 cup water, 4 eggs, 

1 large or 2 small lemons. 

Beat the yolks of eggs very smooth, add the grated lemon peel 
and the sugar, stir in the flour and water ; beat well and pour into 
2 plates lined with paste. When baked, take from the oven, and 
spread over them the whites of the eggs beaten dry and smooth 
with 4 tablespoons pulverized sugar ; return to the oven and brown 
slightly. 

lemon pie — 2. 

1 cup milk, 8 large tablespoons brown sugar, 

1 cup hot water, 5 tablespoons powdered sugar, 

2 small lemons, 5 eggs. 

Beat the yolks of eggs and the brown sugar together and stir 
into the hot water and milk. Cook like custard, and add the 
juice and grated rind of the lemons just before taking from the 
fire. Line 2 plates with rich paste, fill and bake. When baked, 
cover with a meringue made of the whites of eggs and powdered 
sugar. Brown lightly. 

LEMON PIE 3. 

2 eggs, 1 cup sugar, 

1 cup sweet cream, 2 tablespoons melted butter, 

2 tablespoons flour, 1 lemon, grated. 
Bake with an under crust in a moderate oven. 



102 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

LEMON PIE 4. 

1 lemon, 1 cup raisins, 

1 cup water, 2 tablespoons flour, 

1 cup sugar, A pinch of salt. 

Peel the lemon, cut it in thin slices, add raisins and water, let it 
boil until lemon can be cut with a spoon. Add the flour, mixed 
smooth with a little cold water, sugar and salt, stir constantly 
until it is thick. Bake with 2 crusts. 

LEMON CREAM PIE. 

\% lemons, 1 cup sugar, 

2 eggs, \)4 tablespoons cornstarch, 

1 cup boiling water. 
Grate the peel, add the sugar, and squeeze the juice over it, 
then the beaten 3'olks, and the cornstarch dissolved in a little 
water ; mix thoroughly, pour over all the boiling water and cook 
like custard. Bake the crust, and when the custard is nearly cold, 
pour it in ; beat the whites, adding gradually 2 tablespoons of 
sugar, cover the pie and brown lightly in the oven. 

MARLBORO PlE. 

1 cup sifted apple, % cup sugar, 
1% cups rich milk, 2 eggs, 

Flavor to taste. 
Beat the yolks of eggs and sugar together, and stir into the 
apple ; add the milk, heated, the flavoring, and last the well- 
beaten whites. Bake with a rich under crust. Or, make a mer- 
ingue of the whites, add to the pie when baked and brown lightly. 

MINCE MEAT 1. 

2 pounds beef, 2 pounds currants, 
2 pounds raisins, 1 pound citron, 

2 pounds beef suet, 1 pound candied lemon peel, 
4 pounds apples, 2 pounds Sultana raisins, 

3 pounds sugar, 2 nutmegs, grated, 
% ounce cloves, 1 ounce cinnamon, 
x /i ounce mace, 1 teaspoon salt, 
Saltspoon pepper, 2 lemons, juice and rind, 
2 oranges, juice and rind, 1 quart grape juice, 

2 tablespoons powdered coffee. 
Simmer the meat gently till tender ; when perfectly cold chop 
fine. Stone the raisins, shred the citron, pare, core and chop the 
apples and suet fine. Mix the dry ingredients, and add the juice 



PASTRY. 193 

and rind of the oranges and lemons ; pour over the grape juice and 
heat. Pack in a stone jar, cover closely and keep cool. This 
mince meat will keep all winter. 

MINCE MEAT 2. 

3 pounds boiled beef, 1 pound suet, 

3 pounds brown sugar. 6 pounds apples, 

2 pounds raisins, IX pounds currants, 

1 pound citron, % teaspoon mace, 

1 nutmeg, grated, Allspice and cinnamon to taste. 

Chop fine the meat, suet, and apples, add the seasoning, and the 
sliced citron, pour over enough boiled cider to make a thick bat- 
ter and warm thoroughly. 

MINCE MEAT 3. 

1 quart chopped meat, neck piece, 3 pints chopped apples, • 

1 pint chopped cranberries, 2 cups molasses, 

3 cups sugar, % pound chopped suet,. 

1 cup butter, 1 nutmeg, 

2 teaspoons cinnamon, 1 teaspoon cloves, 

1 teaspoon allspice, 1 pound stoned raisins, 

1 pound currants, % pound finely-chopped citron, 

1 teaspoon salt, % teaspoon pepper, 

2 cups wild grape juice. 

Great care should be taken in preparing the meat ; boil slowty 
until perfectly tender ; when done let it stand till cold. Pick 
bones, gristle or stringy bits from the meat and mince very fine. 
Mix with the other ingredients, boil and pack away in jars. 

MINCE MEAT 4. 

1 fresh tongue, 4 pounds raisins, 
4 pounds currants, 4 pounds apples, 

2 pounds suet, 3 pounds brown sugar, 

1 pound sliced citron, 1 pound candied lemon peel, 

1 quart boiled cider, 2 tablespoons cinnamon, 

1 tablespoon cloves, 1 nutmeg, grated fine, 

y 2 teaspoon mace, 1 saltspoon pepper. 

Boil and mince the tongue, wash the currants, stone the raisins, 
pare and chop the apples, free the suet from fibre and chop. Mix 
all together and heat slowly till it comes to a boil. Pack away in 
crocks with close-fitting lids. It will be ready for use in two 
weeks. Use puff paste in making the pies. 



194 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

MOCK MINCE PIE 1. 

4 Boston crackers, broken up fine, 1 cup sugar, 
1 cup molasses, 1 cup fruit juice or vinegar, 

1 cup water, % cup butter, 

1 cup chopped raisins, 2 eggs beaten and stirred in last, 

Spice to taste. 

MOCK MINCE PIE 2. 

12 crackers rolled fine, 1 cup hot water, 

y 2 cup vinegar, 1 cup molasses, 

1 cup sugar, 1 cup currants, 

1 cup raisins, Spice to taste, 

1 cup butter. 

Measure with a teacup. Some use bread crumbs instead of the 
crackers. 

ORANGE PIE 1. 

2 oranges, grated rind and juice, 4 eggs, 

* 4 tablespoons sugar, 1 tablespoon butter. 

Cream butter and sugar, add the beaten 3 T olks of eggs, the rind 
and juice of the oranges, and last the whites of the eggs beaten to 
a froth. Mix lightly, and bake with an under crust. 
orange pie — 2. 
4 oranges, 1 cup sugar, 

1 quart hot milk, 3 eggs, 

2 tablespoons cornstarch. 
Peel and seed the oranges, cut in small pieces, add sugar and 
let stand 15 minutes. Heat the milk, and stir into it the beaten 
eggs and cornstarch mixed with a little cold water. Cook a few 
minutes, and let cool ; then mix with the oranges. Bake with 1 
crust. Make a frosting with the whites of the eggs and 1 cup of 
powdered sugar, and brown lightly in a quick oven. 
orange pie — 3. 

2 cups water, 1 cup sugar, 

1 tablespoon butter, 2 oranges, grated rind and juice, 

Juice of 1 lemon. 
Thicken with cornstarch and fill tart shells previously baked. 
Flavor some frosting with orange juice and ice the top of each. 
Very nice for a cold dessert or as an addition to a dinner. 
peach pie — 1. 

2 tablespoons flour, 1 cup sugar, 

Peaches. 

Line a deep pie pan with rich paste. Peel, halve and stone 



PASTRY. 195 

peaches enough to fill the pan ; sprinkle flour and sugar over them, 
fill the pan with thick, sweet cream and bake until done. 
peach pie — 2. , 
% cup sugar, 1 tablespoon flour, 

2 tablespoons butter, 2 or 3 peach pits. 

Select large, ripe peaches ; pour boiling water over them, peel 
and cut in quarters, or, if large, in eight pieces ; crack the pits 
and put the meats in the pie to flavor it ; mix the flour and sugar 
together; lay the peaches in and sprinkle the sugar over them, 
adding the butter. Be sure to wet the edges of the lower crust be- 
fore putting on the upper crust to keep the juice from leaking. 
For the crust, use as much lard and butter as ice-cold water. Put 
in a pinch of salt, mix the shortening well through the flour with a 
knife before adding the water. 

peach pie — 3. 

Line a deep plate with puff paste, fill with pared peaches, 
halved or quartered, well covered with sugar; put on upper crust 
and bake ; or, make as above without upper crust, bake until done, 
remove from the oven, and cover with a frosting made of the 
whites of 2 eggs, beaten to a stiff froth with 2 tablespoons powdered 
sugar ; return to the oven and brown slightly. Canned peaches 
may be used in the same wa}\ 

DRIED PEACH PIE. 

Stew peaches until perfectly soft, mash fine, and add, for two 
pies, half a cup sweet cream, and 1 cup sugar ; bake with 2 crusts. 
Or, omit cream, and add half a cup boiling water, and butter the 
size of a hickory nut. 

PINEAPPLE PIE. 

1 cup sugar, ^ cup butter, 

1 cup sweet cream, 5 eggs, 

1 pineapple, grated. 
Beat the butter and sugar to a cream, add the beaten yolks of 
eggs, the pineapple, cream, and last, the beaten whites, whipped in 
lightly. Bake with under crust only. 

PLUM COBBLER. 

1 quart flour, 4 tablespoons melted lard, 

% teaspoon salt, 2 teaspoons baking powder. 

Mix as for biscuit with either sweet milk or water, roll thin and 



1 96 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

line a pudding dish or dripping pau, 9 by 18 inches ; mix 3 table- 
spoons of flour and 2 of sugar together and sprinkle over the 
crust ; pour in 3 pints canned damson plums and sprinkle over 
them 1 coffeecup sugar ; wet the edges with a little flour and 
water mixed, put on upper crust, press the edges together, cut 2 
incisions at right angles an inch in length, and bake in a quick 
oven one-half hour. Peaches, apples, or any kind of fresh or 
canned fruit, can be used in the same way. 

POTATO PIE. 

1 teacup grated raw potato, 1 quart sweet milk, 

3 eggs, well beaten, Sugar and nutmeg to taste. 

Let the milk boil and stir in the grated potato ; when cool, add 
the eggs, sugar and spice ; bake with 1 crust. Eat the da} r it 
is baked. This recipe is for two pies. 

SWEET POTATO PIE. 
1 pound mashed sweet potatoes, % cup sugar, 

1 cup cream, % pound butter, 

4 eggs, Any flavoring liked. 
Beat the eggs light, mix thoroughly and bake in 1 crust. 

PRUNE PIE. 
3 cups prunes, 1 cup sugar, 

1 lemon, juice and grated rind. 
Stew, stone and mash the prunes ; add the sugar and lemon. 
Have the mixture juicy, and bake with 2 crusts. 

pumpkin pie — 1. 
1 cup pumpkin, 2 eggs, 

1 cup sugar, 1 saltspoon salt, 

)4. pint cream, 1 large teaspoon cinnamon, 

% pint milk, % teaspoon ginger. 

Select a fine-grained, sweet pumpkin, pare, take out the seeds, 
cut in small pieces, and stew carefully till all the water is evapo- 
rated, stirring well to prevent scorching. When dry, it cannot be 
too dry, sift, and make up into pies. Beat the sugar, eggs and 
spices together, adding the salt. The sweetness of the pumpkin 
will regulate the necessary amount of sugar. Let the pumpkin be 
warm, and the milk hot. Mix the ingredients together, adding 
last the cream and milk, and a little extra milk if the mixture is 
too thick. This makes two pies. 



PASTRY. 107 

PUMPKIN PIE — 2. 

1 pint pumpkin, sifted, 4 teaspoons cinnamon, 

4 eggs, 3 cups sugar, 

3 pints new milk, 1 teaspoon ginger, 

A little butter, Salt. 

Warm the pumpkin, and stir in the salt, spices, sugar, and well- 
beaten eggs. Mix and add the milk heated sufficiently to melt 
the butter. This quantity makes two large pies. 

pumpkin pie — 3. 
Yz pint milk, good measure, 1 egg, 

1 largo tablespoon sifted pumpkin, K tablespoon flour, 

Yt cup sugar, Yz teaspoon ginger, 

Salt, 2 teaspoons cinnamon. 

Beat together the pumpkin, flour and spices ; add the sugar and 
well-beaten egg. Add milk and stir all together. This makes 
one pie. 

RAISIN PIE. 
1 pound raisins, boiled an hour, . Juice of 1 lemon, 
1 cup sugar, 1 teaspoon melted butter. 

Bake with 2 crusts. This is sufficient for two pies. The pies 
should be as juicy as apple pies when baked, and, if preferred, 2 
tablespoons of flour may be added to the ingredients. 

RASPBERRY PIE 1. 

1 pint raspberries, % cup sugar, 

A little flour, 1 tablespoon butter. 

Line the pan with good crust and till with the berries ; spread 
over them the sugar, flour and small bits of butter. Wet the edge 
of the crust, put on the upper crust and pinch the edges closely to- 
gether. Cut holes in the upper ci\»st to allow the air to escape. 
Bake one-half hour. 

RASPBERRY PIE 2. 

Line pie tins with plain crust, sprinkling flour thickly over the 
bottom, and if dried raspberries are used, they must previously be 
soaked in water until of the original size ; fill with the berries, 
dredge on flour, spread thickly with sugar, add a few bits of but- 
ter, and cover with an upper crust. If a richer pie is desired, 
omit the top crust, and pour over 1 cup of whipped sweet cream. 
Bake quickly. 



198 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

RHUBARB LEMON PIE. 

1 cup stewed pieplant, 1 cup sugar, 

I lemon, 3 eggs. 

Mix all the ingredients together, leaving out the white of 1 egg 
to be beaten with 2 tablespoons of sugar for frosting. After the 
pie has baked, frost and brown lightly in the oven. 

RHUBARB PIE 1. 

1 cup stewed rhubarb, 1 cup sugar, 

2 eggs, 1 tablespoon cornstarch. 

Cook over hot water till it thiekens and put in a previously 
baked crust. Beat the whites of 2 eggs, add 1 tablespoon sugar 
and 1 teaspoon lemon extract ; spread over the pie and brown. 

RHUBARB PIE 2. 

Butter, % uup strawberries, 

1 large coffeecup sugar, 1 tablespoon flour, 

Rhubarb. 
Wash and peel the rhubarb, cut it up in inch pieces and pour on 
boiling water; let stand on the back of the stove till it turns 
white ; line pie tin with rich crust, sprinkle on sugar and flour, 
put in rhubarb, more sugar and flour, and add the strawberries ; 
add dots of butter with the rest of the flour and sugar ; cover with 
crust and bake. 

RHUBARB PIE 3. 

1% cups sugar, 1 teaspoon flour, 

1 lemon, grated rind and juice, 2 eggs. 

Sprinkle one-half cup sugar and the flour over the bottom crust, 
and add the pieplant cut up fine ; sprinkle over this the rest of the 
sugar and flour ; bake fully three-quarters of an hour in a slow 
oven. Or, stew the pieplant, sweeten, add the grated rind and 
juice of the lemon and the 3 r olks of eggs ; bake and frost like 
lemon pie. 

RHUBARB PIE — 4. 

Fill a very deep pie plate or shallow earthenware pudding dish 
with rhubarb, sprinkle with sugar, and add a little water ; mix a 
batter with 1 cup of sour cream, a teaspoon of salt and 1 of soda 
dissolved in boiling water and added the last thing, with flour to 
make it rather thick. Spread it over the fruit, covering it com- 
pletely, and bake in a quick oven. As soon as done, turn a plate 
over the top and hold firmly while deftly turning the pie bottom 



PASTRY. 199 

upwards upon it, so that it lays nicely on the plate, fruit side up. 
Now spread with butter, sprinkle with a little more sugar, grate 
nutmeg over it and serve each piece in a saucer with plenty of 
cream. Tart apples also make a delicious pie of this kind. 

SCHMIER-KASE PIE. 
1 pint schmier-kase, 3 eggs, 

1 cup sugar, 1 teaspoon melted butter, 

Juice and rind of 1 lemon, 2 tablespoons cream. 

Rub the cheese through a colander ; beat the eggs thoroughly, 
and add with the rest of the ingredients to the cheese. Beat 
smooth and pour into plates lined with rich paste. Bake 30 min- 
utes in a quick oven. Or, line patty-pans with paste, fill with the 
mixture and bake 15 minutes. 

squash pie — 1. 
3 eggs, 1 cup sugar, 

1 pint milk, 1 cup sifted squash, 

1 teaspoon cinnamon, % teaspoon nutmeg. 

Prepare the squash as for the table and, while warm, stir into it 
the well-beaten eggs, sugar and spices. Mix thoroughly with 
warm, rich milk. This makes two small pies. 

squash pie — 2. 
1 teacup squash 1 egg, 

Yz cup sugar, 1 teaspoon flour, 

Spices to taste. 
Boil the squash until well done ; add a little salt and press 
through a coarse sieve. Add the other ingredients and thin with 
hot milk. Line a pie plate with paste, fill with the mixture and 
bake. Sweet cream or a small piece of butter adds to the flavor 
of the pie. 

STRAWBERRY PIE. 

Prepare the fresh fruit, cover a deep plate with a good paste, 
fill very full of berries, sprinkling liberally with sugar, cover with 
a top crust and bake. 

TRANSPARENT PIE. 

3 eggs, 2 tablespoons sugar, 

1 cup rich cream, 3 tablespoons jelly, 

Flavor with lemon. 

Beat the eggs and sugar together thoroughly, and add the jelly 



- ') HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

while beating. Stir in the cream, adding the flavoring just before 
linking. Bake with lower crust. 

TOMATO PIE. 

Green tomatoes, 4 tablespoons vinegar, 

1 tablespoon butter, 3 tablespoons sugar, 

Flavor with nutmeg or cinnamon. 
Peel and slice the tomatoes, lay in a deep plate lined with rich 
paste ; add the other ingredients, cover and bake slowly. This 
tastes very much like green apple pie. 

VINEGAR PIE. 
1 cup molasses, 1 cup sugar, 

1 i'up vinegar, 1 cup flour, 

3 cups water, Flavor with lemon. 

Boil all together, cool, and bake as custard pie. 

TARTS. 

Roll out nice puff paste, a little thicker than for pies, cut tarts 
with a glass, or biscuit cutter ; with a smaller glass cut out the cen- 
ter of 2 or 3 of these, lay the rings thus made on the third, and 
bake immediately ; or shells may be made by lining patty pans 
with paste. If the paste is light, the shells will be fine, and may 
be used for tarts or oyster patties. Filled with jelly, covered with 
a meringue made of 1 tablespoon of sugar to the white of 1 egg, 
and browned in the oven, they are very nice to serve for tea. 

APPLE TARTS. 
10 large, tart apples, 2 lemons, 

1)4 cups sugar, % cup butter, 

6 eggs. 
Pare, quarter, core, and boil the apples in one-half cup of water ; 
sift, beat smooth, and add the beaten yolks of eggs, the juice and 
grated rind of the lemons, butter and sugar ; if not sweet enough, 
use more sugar ; beat all thoroughly, line little tail-tins with purl' 
paste, fill with the mixture, and bake 5 minutes in a hot oven. 
Take the whites of the eggs, mix with 6 tablespoons powdered 
sugar, spread on tarts, return to the oven and brown slightly. 

For almond tarts, beat to a cream the yolks of 3 eggs and a 
quarter of a pound of sugar, add half a pound of shelled almonds 
pounded slightly, put in tartrtins lined with puff paste ; bake 8 
minutes. 



PASTRY. 201 

For cocoanut tarts, dissolve half a pound of sugar in quarter of 
a pint water, add half a grated cocoanut, and boil slowly for a few 
minutes ; when cold, add the well-beatea j^olks of 3 eggs and the 
white of 1 ; beat all well together, and pour into path' pans lined 
with a rich crust ; bake a few minutes. 

When removed from oven, cover the tarts with a meringue 
made of the whites of the 3 eggs, mixed with 3 tablespoons sugar ; 
return to the oven and brown delicately. 

ORNAMENTAL PASTRY. 

This department furnishes a few recipes which can be used to 
advantage in the preparation of more than ordinarily elaborate 
dishes. 

SKET PASTE. 
% pound beef suet, Salt, 

1 pound flour, Water. 

Divest the suet of all loose skin and blood spots, shred it with a 
sharp knife in as fine slices as possible, and let it stand in a mod- 
erately warm place a few minutes. Make a paste of flour and 
water, roll out in a sheet, lay on suet to cover the dough, fold, 
roll, and beat as for pastry. This process must be repeated more 
times than if butter was used. When rolled enough, proceed as 
with other pastry. Use for meat or mince pies and meat patties. 

FRENCH BUTTER. 
% pound beef suet, % teaspoon salt, 

% pound butter, 3 eggs, yolks. 

Remove the skin and blood spots from the suet, place it in a 
mortar, pound it soft, add the butter and salt, pound in well, then 
add eggs, work the whole into a smooth mass, and use it in the 
same quantity and maimer as butter in puff paste. 

This crust rolled half an inch thick, cut into cakes 2 inches in 
diameter, washed with eggs, cut across the top with a sharp knife. 
and baked a rich brown in a moderately hot oven, makes a deli- 
cious article for the table. 

SHORT PASTE. 
1 pound sifted flour, K pound butter, 

% teaspoon cream of tartar, K pint ice-water, 

Salt. 
Break the butter up very fine in the flour, add the salt and 



202 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

water with the cream of tartar dissolved in it, and mix into a soft 
dough. Keep it covered with a damp cloth, or between two plates, 
and in a cool place. Short paste is very useful from the fact that 
it is easy to make, and can be kept in better shape, where the shape 
of the article is an object. It is also better adapted for lining the 
bottom of paste pans, dishes, etc. , as it is firmer than puff paste. 
Use short paste for all lining or bottom work, and puff paste for 
all top work. In using puff paste, when there is no short paste, 
cut out all of the tops first, then take the scraps and roll them, 
using them for lining and bottoms. 

PYRAMID PATTIES. 

Take a piece of short paste, or scraps of puff paste, roll out one- 
fourth of an inch thick, cut the number of pieces required with 
the same cutter as for open tarts, place them in a baking pan and 
prick with a fork. Cut a like number, with the same cutter, of the 
same thickness, from puff paste ; wash with egg those cut from 
the short paste, and place those cut from the puff paste on them, 
and prick them in the middle. Cut a like number from the puff 
paste, of the same thickness, with the same cutter ; cut the middle 
out of these with a plain round cutter, 1£ inches in diameter, and 
place these rings on the other parts. These are now ready to bake. 
While they are baking, take the piece that comes from the middle 
of the ring piece, roll it out a little larger, and cut 3 other pieces 
with a scalloped round cutter, each a size smaller than the others ; 
place them on baking pans, prick, wash with egg, and bake. 
When these are baked, if the hole is not deep enough for the pur- 
pose, remove some of the pastry inside the ring with a knife. To 
serve these, fill the case, or paste with the hole, with chopped oys- 
ters, prepared in white butter sauce, and add the other pastes, be- 
ginning with the largest and finishing with the smallest. The 
pyramid will be t> inches high. Place small sprigs of parsley be- 
tween the part containing the oysters and the others, also a piece 
of parsley on each, and serve. These cases will serve for oysters, 
lobsters, or chicken. A vol an vent is made in precisely the same 
manner as the above o} r ster pates, but is from eight to twelve times 
larger, and generally oval in shape. It is usually filled with cold 
fricassee of fowl or chicken. The fricassee for a vol au vent must 



PASTRY. 203 

be good and well-jellied. Before serving a vol au vent, place it on 
an oval dish and garnish tastefully with aspic jelly, parsley, and 
cut root flowers. An ordinary size for a vol au vent would be a 
case large enough to hold a fricassee of one large fowl or two 
chickens. 

BEEFSTEAK PIE. 

Prepare seasoning of 3 parts salt and 1 part black pepper, with 
a dash of ground nutmeg ; take tender steak, enough to till the 
dish, cut up into thin slices, and sprinkle each slice with the above 
seasoning and chopped parsley ; roll it up and pass a small wooden 
skewer through it. Line a deep dish with paste and fill with the 
rolls, then add water sufficient to make a good gravy, and lay on 
the top a few hard boiled eggs, sliced ; put on the crust, wash 
with eggs and bake in a moderate oven ; when it has boiled 10 
minutes, the whole should be cooked. By adopting this plan the 
meat will be tender and the gravy much richer than by parboiling 
the meat prior to baking. Do not bake it too fast. For a simple 
beefsteak pie, cut the steak into strips about half an inch in thick- 
ness, season them, lay them in the dish, add water for gravy, cover 
with crust and bake. 

FANCY OR BOOK SAUSAGE ROLL. 

Take a piece of best puff paste, roll out an eighth of an inch 
thick ; cut it in pieces 4 inches square, and lay them on a board. 
Have the sausage meat ready, and break off in pieces the size of a 
small egg ; roll them out 3 inches long and place 1 piece in the 
middle of each square of pastiy. Wet the edge of the pastry, 
bring the part farthest away over on the part nearest, one-fourth 
of an inch from the front edge ; wash with egg, but do not let it 
run down over the sides of the pastry. Give a few shallow cuts 
with a sharp knife ; then cut a leaf of pastry, place in the center, 
and bake a nice brown. If these are made well the edges will rise 
up and the roll will look like a book. 

BANBURY CAKE. 

Take an equal quantity of clean, well-picked currants, granu- 
lated sugar and finely-chopped lemon peel and mix all together, 
adding a flavoring of ginger and cinnamon, and form the whole 
into a nice paste with good, fresh butter. Take puff paste, roll 



204 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

out in a sheet one-fourth of an inch thick ; cut in pieces 2 inches 
square and place a piece of the prepared butter, and currants in 
the center of each ; take the two corners, the one nearest and the 
one opposite, bring them up, press them together, and then with 
the palm of the hand press them down flat. This makes the pieces 
oval in shape and leaves the two ends which are folded together at 
liberty to rise ; wash the part that is not folded with water and 
add as much powdered sugar as it will hold. Bake these in a 
slow heat. They are very fine and are the real English Banbury. 

ECCLES CAKES. 

1 cup currants, Ginger, 

1 cup sugar, Cinnamon, 

1 lemon peel, finely chopped. 

Clean and pick over the currants, add the sugar, lemon peel, 

and spices, and mix well together. Take short paste or cuttings 

of puff paste and roll out one-fourth of an inch thick, cut in pieces 

2 inches square and put a "teaspoon of the above preparation of 

currants in the center of each paste ; fold over the edges allowing 

them to lap a little in the center ; flatten them with the hand and 

turn them over the folded part down, and with a rolling pin, roll 

them out until the currants break through. Place on baking pans, 

give them a few cuts across the top with a knife, wash with milk, 

or milk and egg, dust with sugar and bake a nice brown in a hot 

oven. This is a nice eating pastry. 

CREAPREC1ES. 

Line shallow patty pans with scraps of best paste rolled in a 
sheet, place a piece of bread in each and bake in a cool oven ; 
when baked, remove the bread and put in a teaspoon of red currant 
or other jelly, or jam ; cover this with a cheese cake preparation 
or with a firm custard. Make a meringue, place a tablespoon on 
each, bringing it up in cone form, sprinkle a little pink sugar on 
this, return to the oven, and brown them lightly. 

P0NCH0NETTS. 

Proceed as for creaprecies. When baked, place an almond 
macaroon in each, cover the macaroon with half quince and half 
red currant jelly. Fill a paper cone with meringue, and drop a 
spoonful in the center on the jelly, then with the meringue in the 



PASTRY. 205 

cone drop a small cone shaped pile on the center, on what is al- 
ready on the jelly ; drop 5 or 6 cones around it. This will give a 
circle of cones with one in the center. They should be as large as 
a twenty-five cent piece and at least one inch in height; return 
them to the oven to color them. When cold drop a little red cur- 
rant jelly on the point of each cone. This makes one of the pret- 
tiest of fancy pastry dishes, and sets off a table wonderfully well. 

PRESERVE PUFFS. 

Take sufficient puff paste to make the desired number. Cut and 
roll out thin to about 6 inches in diameter. Place on it, a little 
from the center, a teaspoon of raspberry preserves, spread a little, 
and fold the small part over on the preserve, allowing the top edge 
to lie back from the front edge at least one-fourth of an inch. 
This folding forms a half circle. Wash with water, or egg and 
water, dust with powdered sugar, cut a few deep but short cuts 
across the top, over the preserve, and bake. The preserve will 
show through the cuts. 

COVENTRY PUFF. 

Take scraps of puff paste and roll out into a sheet one-fourth of 
an inch in thickness. Cut the number of pieces required with a 
plain round cutter 3 inches in diameter. Roll these out us for 
preserve puffs ; add some fancy preserves, and lap the paste over 
in 3 folds, so that when it is folded it will form a triangle. Then 
turn the folded part down on the baking pans, wash with water, or 
egg and water, dust with powdered sugar, and bake. Do not cut 
these on the top. 

JAM SANDWICHES. 

Take a piece of putt' paste, after it is fully rolled and folded, 
roll it out one-fourth inch in thickness and fold it over evenly like 
a sheet of paper. Roll out an eighth of an inch thick and 12 
inches wide ; roll this up so as to form a cylinder 2^ inches in 
diameter; wet the edge so it ma}' not unfold, press it flat until re- 
duced to three-fourths of an inch in thickness ; take a sharp knife 
and cut off slises one-fourth of an inch thick, lay on the pan, cut 
part down, give them room to spread out and bake. When baked, 
dust well with powdered sugar, and return to an oven hot enough 
to melt the sugar, thus giving them a fine glaze. A salamander 



20G HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

held over them will glaze them quicker than an oven. When this 
is done, spread raspberry jam or jelly on them and stick two to- 
gether. This makes a pretty dish and is a favorite on French 
tables. 

FRUIT TARTS. 

Line small patty pans with short crust, fill them with red cur- 
rants, black currants, raspberries, or other fruit ; heap them high 
in the center, add powdered sugar, wet the edge of the paste with 
water, lay on a top cover an eighth of an inch thick, press the 2 
edges of the pastry together and with a sharp knife pare off the 
excess of pastry from the edges of: the pans, holding the knife in a 
slanting position toward the center of the tart or patty ; now with 
the thumb press the paste around the base of the fruit, about half 
an inch from the edge of the pan ; press it hard enough to all but 
break the paste so as to push the fruit up in a cone in the center ; 
wash with water and bake. The object of pressing the paste so 
thin around the base of the fruit, is that the juice of the fruit may 
break through the paste in baking and run around the groove 
formed by the pressing of the paste, and give a rich and pretty 
effect. 

PUDDINGS. 

No ingredient of doubtful quality should enter into the composi- 
tion of puddings as one bad article will affect all. Puddings are 
either baked, boiled or steamed. If baked, rice, bread, custard and 
fruit puddings require a moderate oven, batter and cornstarch a 
quicker one. A pinch of salt should be added to every pudding, 
and it should be baked as soon as mixed. Many recipes for baked 
pudding are as nice boiled, and the general rule is to boil the pud- 
ding double the time required for baking. Never allow a pudding 
to stop boiling, and if water must be added to the kettle avoid 
pouring it upon the bag or mould. Use a buttered mould or bowl. 
Cover the first tightly and drop into the boiling water. If a bowl 
is used, fill three-quarters full with the mixture, and tie over it a 
thick cloth wrung out of hot water and floured on the inner side. 
Tie the ends also under the bowl. The pudding-bag should be 
made of firm drilling, tapering from top to bottom, and rounded 



PUDDINGS. l!U7 

on the corners ; stitch and fell the scams, which should be outside 
when in use, and sew a tape to the seam, about 3 inches from top. 
Wring the bag out of hot water, flour the inside well, pour in the 
pudding, which should be well beaten the instant before pouring, 
tie securely, leaving room to swell, and place in a kettle with a 
saucer at the bottom to prevent burning, with enough boiling 
water to entirely cover the bag ; keep it boiling constantly and fill 
up carefully when needed. To use a pan, tie a cloth tightly over 
the rim, bring the ends back together, and pin them over the top 
of the pan ; the pudding may then be lifted out easily by a strong 
fork put through the ends or corners of the cloth. For plum pud- 
dings, invert the pan when put in the kettle, and the pudding will 
not become water-soaked. When the pudding is done, give what- 
ever it is boiled in a quick plunge into cold water, and turn out at 
once, serving immediately. Steaming is nicer than either boiling 
or baking, as the pudding is sure to be light and wholesome. In 
steaming use a pan or mould, and cover with a floured cloth, tie- 
ing it closely over the top. Let the steamer be tightly covered, 
and allow a little more time than required for boiling. Pudding 
cloths, however coarse, should never be washed with soap, but in 
clear, clean water, dried as quickly as possible, and kept dry and 
out of dust in a drawer or cupboard free from odors. All moulds, 
bowls or pans used for baking, boiling or steaming must be well- 
buttered. 

Batter puddings should be mixed carefully to avoid lumping, 
and the flour must be mixed with part of the milk before adding 
the beaten eggs, or the ingredients will separate in baking. Add 
the beaten whites of eggs last in making batter and custard pud- 
dings. Ordinarily mix the beaten yolks and sugar with the milk 
before adding the other ingredients. 

Eggs should be broken separately into a cup to ascertain their 
freshness. 

Currants should be carefull}- washed, and dried. Dried fruits 
should be looked over and washed. Raisins should be washed, 
dried and stoned. A nice way to do this, is to put the raisins 
into a bowl, pour on boiling water, cover, and after a few minutes 
pour off the water, and cut with sharp scissors ; the stones will be 
easily removed. 



208 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

In grating lemons and oranges avoid grating into the white por- 
tion of the peel. 

Suet should be pulled or broken into pieces, sprinkled with flour 
to avoid sticking, and chopped in a cool place. It is essential 
that suet, as well as milk, should be perfectly fresh, or the pudding 
will be unfit for use. 

APPLE PUDDING. 

1 cup water, Apples, 

1 cup sugar, Nutmeg, 
Butter, Biscuit dough. 

Pare, core and slice apples to fill a bright tin or granite iron 
pudding dish holding 2 quarts, add water, sugar, some small 
pieces of butter, and nutmeg. Cover with biscuit dough rolled 
one-half inch thick, making a small opening in the center to allow 
the steam to escape. Lay a plate over it with a weight on it. 
Set the dish on the stove and cook till the apples are done. 
Adapt sugar and water to the size of the pudding. Serve with 
(ream and sugar. Crab apples are good cooked in this way. 

BOILED APPLE DUMPLINGS. 

2 cups sour milk, 1 teaspoon soda, 
1 teaspoon salt, % cup butter,- 

1 tablespoon lard, Flour. 

Make a very stiff dough, roll out and cut in circles large enough 
to incase the apples. Peel and core the apples, fill each cavity 
with sugar, \ay upon a circle of crust, and press the edges of the 
dough closely together. Put the dumplings into a kettle of 
slightly salted boiling water, and boil one-half hour. The water 
must cover the dumplings. These are also nice steamed. For 
baking use a soft dough, or a good baking powder crust. Place in 
a shallow pan, bake in a hot oven, and serve with cream and 
sugar. Or, place in a pan which is 4 or 5 inches deep, and do not 
have the dumplings touch each other. Pour in hot water, just 
leaving the top of the dumplings uncovered. To a pan of 4 or 5 
dumplings add 1 teacup sugar and one-half teacup butter ; bake 
from 30 to 40 minutes. If the water cooks away, add more. 
Serve dumplings on a platter, and the liquid as a sauce. Fresh or 
canned peaches can be used in the same way. 



PUDDINGS. 209 

ROLLED APPLE DUMPLINGS. 

Peel and chop fine tart apples, make a crust of 1 cup rich but- 
termilk, 1 teaspoon soda, and flour enough to roll ; roll half an 
inch thick, spread with the apple, sprinkle well with sugar and cin- 
namon, cut in strips 2 inches wide, roll up like jell}' cake, set the 
rolls in a dripping pan, la} T a teaspoon of butter on cadi, put in a 
moderate oven, and baste them often with the juice. 

APPLE ROLLY-POLY. 

Peel, quarter and core sour apples, make a rich soda biscuit 
dough, or raised biscuit dough may be used if rolled thin, roll half 
an inch thick, slice the quarters, and lay on the prepared paste or 
crust, roll up, tuck ends in, prick deeply with a fork, lay in a 
a steamer and place over a kettle of boiling water, cook If hours. 
Or, wrap in a cloth, tie the ends and baste the sides together, put 
in a kettle of boiling water, and boil steadily 1£ hours. Cut 
across in slices and serve with sweetened cream, or butter and 
sugar. C hemes, dried fruit, any kind of berries, jelly, or apple 
butter may be used. With the last two add raisins. 

RANANA PUDDING. 
1 cup sugar, 2 eggs, 

1 cup water, 1 heaping tablespoon butter, 

2 teaspoons baking powder, Flour to make a thin, smooth batter. 
Bake in two deep tins. Slice 3 bananas, and place between 

with a sprinkling of sugar. Serve warm with thin cream. One- 
half of this recipe makes enough for a family of four. A slightly 
sour sauce flavored with vanilla is a substitute for cream. 

BATTER PUDDING. 
2 cups milk, 4 eggs, 

2 cups flour, .Sail. 

1 large teaspoon baking powder, 
Sift the baking powder into the flour, add salt, and if liked a lit- 
tle melted butter, then the milk gradual ly, stirring carefully, and 
the well-beaten eggs, 3-olks and whites separately. This will bake 
in 50 minutes. If the pudding is to be boiled, make stiffer than 
for baking, and if fruit is used it must be very stiff. It should 
not stick to the knife when served. Serve with a rich sauce. The 
batter is nicer if G instead of 4 eggs are used. 



2 1 housekeeper cook b( >qk. 

bird's-nest pudding. 

1 quart milk, Yolks of 6 eggs, 

1 teaspoon cinnamon, Sugar. 

Pare and core without quartering enough quick-cooking, tart 
apples to fill a pudding dish. Make a custard of the milk and the 
beaten yolks of eggs ; sweeten, add cinnamon, pour over the apples 
and bake ; when done, use whites of the eggs beaten stiff, with G 
tablespoons white sugar, spread on the custard, brown lightly, and 
serve either hot or cold. If necessary, apples may be baked a 
short time before adding the custard. 

BLACKBERRY PUDDING. 
1 cup sugar, 2 eggs, 

1 cup sweet milk, 2 cups Hour, 

:.' teaspoons baking powder. 
Place a thin layer of the dough in a deep dish, cover with black- 
berries and a sprinkling of sugar ; add another Layer of the dough, 
and more blackberries and sugar ; cover last with dough. Steam 
3 hours, and serve with rich cream. Raspberries or cherries may 
be used instead of blackberries. A few bits of butter among the 
berries are an improvement. 

15REA1) PUDDING. 
3 eggs, 1 cup sugar, 

1 teaspoon soda, % saltspoon salt, 

>£ nutmeg, 1 cup raisins, 

1 ounce butter. 
Fill a pint basin two-thirds full of stale bread, cover with water, 
place a plate on top to keep the bread under ; when soaked soft, 
mash with a spoon, add the eggs well beaten, sugar, spices and 
butter ; last of all the floured raisins. Butter a pudding dish the 
size needed ; fill and bake slowl}' 1 hour. Beat the whites of 2 
eggs to a froth, add 2 tablespoons sugar, and spread over top 
when done. Set in the oven to brown a little ; serve with or with- 
out sauce. 

BROWN BETTY. 

Pare and sljp||3 apples ; butter a dish, cover the bottom half an 
Inch deep wi' read crumbs, add a lump of butter, then a layer 
of apples .a sugar, with a little nutmeg. Bepeat this until the 
dish is full ; then pour over the whole 1 teacup of cold water. 






PUDDINGS. 211 

Bake 30 minutes, and serve hot or cold, with or without sauce. 
Cream is nicer than a butter sauce. 

BUTTERCUP PUDDINO. 
1 quart sweet milk, 3 eggs, yolks, 

Yz cup cornstarch, 2 tablespoons sugar, 

1 tablespoon butter. 
Mix the cornstarch smooth in a little of the milk ; put the rest 
in a custard kettle and heat, add the cornstarch, the beaten eggs, 
sugar and butter. Boil 5 minutes and turn into small cups wet 
in cold water. When cold, turn out on a fanc)^ plate, and serve 
with sweet cream flavored with lemon. 

CARAMEL PUDDING. 

5 tablespoons flour, 1 quart milk, 

8 tablespoons brown sugar. 

Brown the sugar in a pan, boil the milk, throw the burned 
sugar into it, and stir till smooth. Then add the flour mixed with 
a little cold milk, boil 10 minutes, and pour into a mould. To be 
eaten cold. 

ENGLISH CARROT PUDDING. 

1 pound grated carrots % pound chopped suet, 
Yi pound raisins, % pound currants, 

4 tablespoons sugar, 8 tablespoons flour, 

Spices to suit the taste. 
Mix the ingredients thoroughly, boil 4 hours and dry in a hot 
oven for 20 minutes. 

CHEESE PUDDING. 
4 tablespoons fine bread crumbs, 4 tablespoons grated cheese, 
2 eggs, Butter, size of walnut, 

Mustard, pepper and salt to taste. 
Butter a deep pie dish and put in all the ingredients except the 
eggs ; then beat the yolks of eggs in a small cup of milk, add the 
whites beaten to a froth, pour this over the crumbs and bake in a 
hot oven for 20 minutes. 

CHERRY PUDDTXd. 

2 teaspoons baking powder, 2 cups sifted flour 
2 tablespoons cold water, Sweet milk, 

2 cups fresh cherries. 
Make a soft dough, roll thin, put on the cherries, wet the edges of 
the dough and roll up like a rolly-poly pudding. Before making 



-12 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

the pudding have a kettle of boiling water on the stove with a 
steamer over it; then put a clean cloth in the bottom, place the 
pudding in and steam 1 hour. 

CHOCOLATE PUDDING 1. 

1 quart rich milk, 1 cup sugar 

3 ounces grated chocolate, 5 eggs, 

5 tablespoons powdered sugar. 

Scald the milk and chocolate, and when sufficientl}' cool add the 
well-beaten yolks of eggs, the sugar, a pinch of salt, and bake. 
Make a meringue of the whites of eggs and the powdered sugar, 
lay on the pudding when baked, and brown lightly. Or, boil 1 
pint milk, add half cup butter, 1 of sugar, and 3 ounces grated 
chocolate ; pour this over 2 slices of bread soaked in water ; cool, 
add the well-beaten yolks of 4 eggs, and bake. When done, 
spread over the whites beaten with sugar, and brown in the oven. 
Serve hot or cold. 

CHOCOLATE PUDDING 2. 

1 pint sweet milk, Whites of 3 eggs, 

2 tablespoons cornstarch, 5 tablespoons sugar, 
1 tablespoon vanilla, 1 cake chocolate, 

Pinch of salt. 

Put the milk to boil and when boiling add sugar, also the corn- 
starch wet smooth in a little cold milk, then the whites of the eggs 
beaten to a froth. To two-thirds of the mixture, add the grated 
chocolate and a tablespoon vanilla; let cook a few minutes, then 
pour into a mould — half the dark, then the light, and the rest of 
the dark. Serve with cream. 

COCOANUT PUDDING. 

\ cup sugar, y z pound grated cocoanut, 

6 eggs, 1 pint rich milk, 

Yt cup stale sponge cake, 2 teaspoons vanilla. 

Cream the sugar and yolks of eggs, add the cocoanut, fresh- 
grated is best, milk, cake crumbs, and the whites of 3 eggs well 
frothed. Put in the oven and bake 40 minutes. Place on 
the top of the pudding a meringue made of the whites of 3 eggs 
beaten stiff, into which has been stirred one-half cup of sugar. 
Brown slightly and serve. 



PUDDINGS. 213 

COCOANUT TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

3 tablespoons tapioca, 1 quart now milk, 

4 eggs, 1 cup sugar, 

3 tablespoons cocoanut. 
Soak the tapioca in water all night, heat the milk, add the tapi- 
oca, and cook 10 minutes. Beat the yolks of the egg, the sugar 
and cocoanut together; stir in, boil 5 minutes, and pour into a 
pudding dish. Beat the whites to a stiff froth with 4 tablespoons 
white sugar, pour over the pudding, sprinkle cocoanut over the 
top and brown delicately in the oven. 

COTTAGE PUDDING. 

1 cup sugar, % cup butter, 

1 egg, 1 cup sweet milk. 

% teaspoon soda, 1 teaspoon cream of tartar, 

?. cups flour, Flavor to taste. 

Mix the cream of tartar with the flour, dissolve the soda in the 
milk, rub the butter and sugar together, and beat the egg, white 
and yolk separately. Mix the ingredients and bake 30 minutes. 
Bake in a shallow pan, and cut in squares. Serve with the fol- 
lowing sauce : 

3 tablespoons butter, 1 cup sugar, 

1 tablespoon flour, 1 pint boiling water. 

Wet the flour with a little cold water, add the butter and sugar, 
pour over boiling water and boil 3 minutes, stirring all the time. 
After taking from the fire, add one-half teaspoon extract lemon or 
lemon juice. Nutmeg may be used in place of lemon. 

CORNSTARCH PUDDING. 

1 pint sweet milk, 3 eggs, 

2 tablespoons cornstarch, 3 tablespoons sugar, 

yi saltspoon salt. 
Put the milk in a* double boiler or a small bucket, set in a ket- 
tle of hot water, and when it reaches the boiling point add the 
sugar, then the starch dissolved in a little cold milk, and lastly the 
whites of eggs whipped to a stiff froth; beat it, cook a few min- 
utes, then pour into teacups, tilling half full, and set in a cool 
place. For sauce, make a boiled custard as follows : Bring to the 
boiling point 1 pint of milk, add 3 tablespoons sugar, then the 
beaten yolks thinned by adding 1 tablespoon milk, stirring all the 
time till it thickens ; flavor with 1 teaspoon lemon or vanilla, and 



214 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK, 

cool. In serving, put one of the moulds in a saucer for each pei - - 
son, and pour over it some of the boiled custard. The pudding 
may be made in one large mould. 

To make a chocolate pudding, flavor the above pudding with 
vanilla, remove two-thirds of it, and add half a cake of chocolate 
softened, mashed, and dissolved in a little milk. Put a laj^er of 
half the white pudding into the mould, then the chocolate, then the 
rest of the white ; or two layers of chocolate may be used with the 
white between ; or the center may be of cocoanut, using half a 
cocoanut grated fine, and the outside chocolate ; or pineapple 
picked fine (if first cooked in a little water, the latter makes a 
nice dressing) or strawberries may be used. 

CRANBERRY ROLL. 

1 cup sour milk, % cup butter, 

1 teaspoon soda. % teaspoon salt, 

Flour to make a stiff dough. 

Roll out in a long sheet, spread thickly with cranberry jam', roll 
up and steam 3 hours. Serve with sauce, flavored with the juice 
from a can of cherries. 

CREAM PUDDING. 
1 pint cream, 3 ounces sugar, 

3 eggs, Nutmeg. 

Beat the yolks of eggs and sugar together, add the cream and 
nutmeg, then the beaten whites, stirring lightl}- ; pour into a but- 
tered plate on which have been sprinkled crumbs of stale bread, to 
about the thickness of an ordinary crust ; sprinkle over the top a 
layer of bread crumbs and bake. Serve with jelly. 

CREAM PUDDING WITH CHERRIES. 

M pound flour, K poimd sugar, 

x /i pound butter, 1 quart warm water, 

6 eggs. 

Stir the flour, sugar and butter into the water, being careful 
that the flour does not become lumpy. Let it boil to the consist- 
ency of custard, then add the eggs, whites and yolks beaten sepa- 
rately, and very stiff. Add a cup of preserved cherries, pour all 
into a deep pudding dish, set it in a pan of water, put into a hot 
oven and bake 1 hour. 



PUCDINGS. 215 

■ 

CURRANT PUDDINGS. 

Pour over squares of stale sponge cake, a verysweel custard into 
which ripe currants have been stirred, and serve at once. Or, stir 
ripe currants thickly into a rich batter made with eggs, sweet 
cream and baking powder; pour all into a buttered basin, and 
steam 1 hour. Or, stir currants thickly into a nice bread pud- 
ding. Or. put layers of bread, nicely toasted and buttered, into a 
basin, with very ripe, sweetened currants between them. Pour 
over water enough to moisten the bread, and bake the pudding 1 
hour, then serve it with sweetened cream. Or, make a sweet 
Johnn}' cake, using plent} r of eggs and butter. Bake it in a pan 
so that, when it is done, it will be more than an inch thick. 
Split it while hot, butter both pieces quickly,, then put between 
them a layer of ripe currants that have stood in sugar for an hour. 
Serve with sweetened cream. 

DELMON1C0 PUDDING. 

[ quart rich milk, 5 eggs, 

3 tablespoons cornstarch; Lemon, 

6 tablespoons sugar, Vanilla, 

5 tablespoons powdered sugar. 

Heat the milk in a double boiler, dissolve the cornstarch in a 
little cold milk, add with beaten yolks of eggs and sugar to the 
hot milk. Cook 5 minutes, pour into a pudding dish and bake 20 
minutes. Just before baking add one-half teaspoon vanilla. 
Make a meringue of the whites of eggs and powdered sugar. 
Flavor with one-half teaspoon lemon. Pile on the pudding and 
brown delicately in a moderate oven. The nicety of the pudding 
depends on the care with which it is made, and the use of the 
flavoring. 

PIG PUDDING — 1. 

% pound figs, H pound bread crumbs, 

cup suet, l cup milk, 

1 tablespoon sugar, 3 eggs. 

Chop the figs and suet fine; add bread crumbs, sugar, eggs, 
milk, and a little cinnamon and nutmeg. Boil 3 hours. Serve 
with any sauce. 



21(5 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

• 

FIG PUDDING — 2. 

y 2 pound figs, 3 ounces butter, 

2%. ounces powdered sugar, 2 eggs, 

% pound grated bread, 1 teacup milk. 

Chop the figs fine, mix with the butter, and by degrees add the 

other ingredients ; butter and sprinkle a mould with bread crumbs, 

pour in the pudding, cover closely, and boil 3 hours. Serve with 

lemon sauce. 

FRUIT PUDDINGS. 

Stew currants, or any small fruits, fresh or dried, with sugar, 
and pour hot over thin slices of baker's bread with crust cut off, 
or bread crumbs, making alternate layers of fruit and bread, and 
leaving a thick la} T er of fruit for the last. Put a plate on top, 
bake, and when cool set on ice ; serve with cream and sugar. 

This pudding is delicious made with Boston or milk crackers, 
split open, and stewed apricots or peaches, with plenty of juice, 
arranged as above. Or, toast and butter slices of bread, pour over 
it hot stewed fruit in alternate layers, and serve warm with rich, 
hot sauce. 

FROZEN PUDDING. 
2 quarts rich cream, 5 eggs, yolks. 

1 pint sugar, Flavor with lemon. 

Line a freezer with pieces of sponge cake, spread with cherry or 
acid fruit, or preserves, until the freezer is one-half full. Pour 
over this a custard made of the other ingredients ; freeze 2 hours. 
When ready for use, place a hot cloth around the freezer, holding 
the top over a large platter, and slip it out. Serve immediately. 

STEAMED GRAHAM PUDDING. 

2 cups sour milk, 1 cup molasses, 
1 teaspoon soda, 1 teaspoon salt, 

:.' cups raisins. 
Add graham flour to make a stilf batter. Place in a deep dish, 
well buttered, and steam 3 hours. Serve with sweetened cream. 
Chopped ligs may be used instead of raisins. 

(i It APE PUDDING. 

Either fresh or canned grapes may be used. Press the grapes 
through a sieve to remove the skins and seeds, put the juice and 
pulp in a pail, set it in a kettle of boiling water on the stove, and 



PUDDINGS. 217 

add a little sugar; thicken with cornstarch rubbed smooth in a 
little cold water, as for blancmange. Let it boil, stirring con- 
stantly 3 or 4 minutes ; pour into a dish or moulds, and set on ice 
or in a cold place. Serve with cream and sugar. 

IIUCKLEBERRV PUDDING. 
1 quart berries, 1 pint molasses, 

1 cup milk, 1 teaspoon soda, 

1 teaspoon cloves, 1 teaspoon cinnamon, 

1 nutmeg, 1 pound and 2 ounces Hour. 

Stir all together, put in a bag and boil 2\ hours. Serve with a 
rich sauce. 

BAKED INDIAN PUDDING. 
'J quarts unskimmed milk, Small cup Indian meal, 

2 eggs, Large cup sugar, 
1 cup raisins, Nutmeg to taste. 

Boil a quart of milk, salt it and sift in meal ; boil 10 minutes, 
remove from the lire and add the rest of the milk ; when lukewarm 
add the beaten eggs, sugar and raisins ; pour into the pudding 
dish, which has been heated, and add a lump of butter. Bake 3 
hours. When nicely browned, spread butter on the top, and sift 
white sugar over it. Serve hot. 

BOILED INDIAN PUDDING. 
1 pint molasses, 1 pint milk, 

4 eggs, 1 pound suet, chopped line, 

1 teaspoon cinnamon, % nutmeg, 

Grated lemon peel. 
Warm the milk and molasses, stir well, add the other ingre- 
dients, and mix thoroughly ; add meal sufficient to make a thick 
1 latter. Dip a cloth in boiling water, shake, flour a little, turn in 
the mixture, tie, leaving room for the pudding to swell, and boil 3 
hours. Serve hot with sauce made of drawn butter, 1 tablespoon 
sugar, one-half tablespoon vinegar or lemon juice, and a little 
nutmeg. 

STEAMED INDIAN PUDDING. 

•'{ heaping tablespoons Indian meal, 1 cup milk, 

1 pint boiling water, 3 tablespoons brown sugar, 

U cup finely-chopped suet, 2 eggs, 

1 cup raisins, 1 teaspoon baking powder. 

2 tablespoons flour. Nutmeg to taste. 

Stir the meal into the boiling water. Mix the baking powder 



218 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

with the flour, add the eggs, well beaten, and the other ingredients. 
Stir all together thoroughly, and steam the pudding 2 hours. 
Serve with sweetened cream or sauce. 

LEMON PUDDING 1. 

4 eggs, 4 tablespoons sugar, 

1 tablespoon melted butter, 1 dessertspoon flour, 
1 pint scalded milk, 2 lemons, juice and grated rind. 

Mix together the beaten yolks of the eggs, sugar, butter and 
flour ; add the milk, scalding hot, and stir till nearly cold, then the 
whites of the eggs, beaten stiff, with the juice and rind of the 
lemons added just before baking. Bake 20 minutes. To be 
eaten cold. 

LEMON PUDDING 2. 

1 cup sugar, 1 lemon, grated rind, 
% cup water, 6 crackers, 

2 lemons, juice, 6 eggs. 

Make a custard of the yolks of eggs, sugar, lemons and water ; 
soften the crackers in warm water, lay in the bottom of a pudding 
dish, pour the custard over them . and bake till firm ; beat the 
whites of eggs to a froth, add 6 tablespoons powdered sugar and 
when the custard is done, pour the frosting over it ; return to the 
oven and brown. Serve warm or cold. 

LEMON PUDDING 3. 

1 lemon, juice and grated rind, 1 cup sugar, 

2 eggs, 3 tablespoons flour, 
l / 2 saltspoon salt, 1 pint rich milk. 

Mix the flour and part of the milk to a smooth paste, add the 
lemon juice and rind, the sugar, the yolks well beaten, and the 
rest of the milk ; line a deep plate with puff paste one-fourth inch 
thick, pour in the custard, bake in a quick oven until done. Beat 
the whites to a stiff froth, add 2 tablespoons powdered sugar, 
spread over the top, return to the oven and brown. Serve with 
very cold cream or whipped cream. The recipe is sufficient for 
six persons. 

MARCH PUDDING. 
1 cup dried apples, 1 egg, 

\ x zi cups flour, 1 teaspoon soda, 

y 2 -c-up butter, 1 teaspoon cinnamon, 

1 cup molasses, y z teaspoon cloves. 

Wash and soak the apples over night, cut them fine, add the 



PUDDINGS. 219 

water in which they' were soaked, the molasses and spice ; mix the 
egg, butter, and Hour together ; stir the soda into the apples and 
molasses, add the other ingredients and hake immediately. Serve 
hot with sauce made with one-half cup butter and 1 cup sugar, 
beaten smooth and flavored to taste. 

MINUTE PUDDING. 

Take sweet milk, or half water and milk, a pinch of salt, let 
boil, stir in wheat flour until the same thickness as corn meal 
mush ; remove from the fire, and serve at once with sweetened 
cream flavored with nutmeg. Some cooks add fresh or canned 
blackberries, raspberries or cherries. 

ORANGE PUDDlNii. 
5 oranges, 1 cup sugar, 

1 pint milk, 3 eggs, 

1 tablespoon cornstarch. 
Peel and cut the oranges in small pieces, take out the seeds, 
sprinkle the sugar over them, boil the milk and add the well-beaten 
yolks of eggs with the cornstarch, and when it thickens, pour over 
the fruit. Beat the whites of the eggs with 3 tablespoons of white 
sugar. Frost the pudding and brown it in the oven. 

ORANGE ROLLY-POLY. 

Make a light pastry as for apple dumplings, roll in oblong sheets 
and lay oranges, peeled, sliced, and seeded, thickly over it; sprinkle 
with white sugar ; scatter over all 1^ teaspoons of grated orange 
peel, and roll up, folding down the edges closely to keep the 
syrup from running out; boil in a cloth 1^- hours. Eat with 
lemon sauce prepared as follows : 6 eggs, leaving out the whites of 
2, one-half pound of butter, 1 pouud sugar, juice and grated rind 
of 2 lemons ; place over a slow fire, stir till it thickens like honey. 

PINEAPPLE PUDDING. 

Butter a pudding dish, and line the bottom and sides with slices 
of stale cake, sponge cake is best, pare and slice thin a large pine- 
apple, place in the dish first a layer of pineapple, then strew with 
sugar, then pineapple, and repeat until all is used ; pour over a 
small cup of water, and cover with slices of cake which have been 
dipped in cold water ; cover the whole with a buttered plate, and 
bake slowly 2 hours. 



220 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

PLUM PUDDING 1. 

6 ounces raisins, 1 ounce citron, 

3 ounces bread crumbs, 1 blade mace, powdered, 

8 ounces currants, 1 nutmeg, 

3 ounces flour, % teaspoon salt, 

6 ounces suet, 1 teaspoon cinnamon, 

1 .ounce candied lemon, 3 eggs. 

Mix the fruit, bread crumbs, beateu yolks of eggs, flour, suet and 
spice together; then add a cup of milk, the whites oi the egg 
well beaten, and boil 4 or 5 hours. s 

PLUM PUDDING 2. 

1 pound Malaga raisins, 1 ounce candied lemon peel, 

1 pound currants, 1 ounce candied orange peel, 

1 pound beef suet, 6 ounces flour, 

% pound light brown sugar, % nutmeg, grated, 

% pound bread crumbs, 8 eggs, 

% pound citron, A little milk. 

Pick and stone the raisins ; wash, pick and dry the currants, 
slice the citron, chop the suet, beat the eggs well, and mix all the 
ingredients together. Have ready a plain or ornamental pudding 
bowl well buttered ; pour the mixture into it, cover with a sheet of 
paper, tie in a cloth, put into a large kettle of boiling water and 
let boil hard 4^- hours ; or, pour the pudding into a welbfloured 
cloth, shaping by laying the cloth in a round bottomed basin, and 
tie, allowing room for it to swell. When done, turn upon a dish, 
sprinkle with powdered sugar and serve with a rich sauce. 

EGGLESS PLUM PUDDING. « 

1 cup bread crumbs, 2 cups flour, 

1 cup suet, chopped line, 1 teaspoon soda, 

1 cup molasses, 1 teaspoon salt. 

1 cup raisins, % teaspoon cloves, 

1 cup sweet milk, 1 teaspoon cinnamon. 

Boil 3 hours in a two-cpiart dish, set into a kettle of boiling 
water, or steam the same length of time. Serve with a sauce. 
Sauce for Pudding. 

1 cup white sugar, Butter, size of an egg, 

1 lemon. White of 1 egg. 

Hub to a cream and add a little boiling water. 



PUDDINGS. 221 

ENGLISH PLUM PUDDING. 
2 bowls bread crumbs, )i pound finely-sliced citron, 

1 bowl stoned raisins, 3 tablespoons flour, 

1 bowl finely-cbopped beef suet, 6 well-beaten eggs, 
\y 2 bowls currants, 1 large nutmeg, 

Sugar to taste. 
Mix thoroughly with the hands at night, and in the morning add 
half a cup of sweet milk ; stir well and pack in a large bowl. 
Wring a strong cloth out of hot water, dredge with flour and tie 
over the bowl ; set it in a steamer, put a cloth over the top and tie 
on the lid. fut over a kettle of boiling water and replenish with 
hot water as it boils away. Steam 9 hours. Make 3 or 4 days 
before using ; when wanted, set on the stove 3 or 4 hours before 
dinner, and steam. Turn out on a platter and send to the table 
ornamented with evergreen and bitter-sweet berries. Serve with a 
rich sauce. 

PRAIRIE PLUM PUDDING. 

Stew together a cup of raisius and one-half cup citron ; prepare 
dish with butter, put in a layer of sponge cake, or Boston crackers 
sliced and buttered may be used, then a layer of fruit, and so on. 
with cake or bread for last layer ; pour over it a custard made of 
a quart of milk and yolks of 4 eggs, sweetened to taste ; bake 
until on inserting a knife the milk has become water. Make a 
frosting of the whites of 4 eggs and 4 tablespoons powdered sugar, 
spread it on the pudding, brown in the oven, and serve with sauce. 

Sauce for Pudding. 

1 cup sugar. 1 tablespoon butter. 

-(■ pint water, 1 teaspoon cornstarch, 

1 egg, white, 1 teaspoon vanilla. 

Let the sugar and water boil, add the butter, and cornstarch 
mixed with a little cold milk, and boil 5 minutes; take off and 
stir in the well-beaten white of an egg and the vanilla. 

POOR MANS PUDDING. 

1 cup N. O. molasses, 3 cups flour. 

1 cup raisins. 3 eggs, 

.. cup citron, 1 teaspoon soda, 

1 cup sour milk, % teaspoon cloves, 

1 cup currants, 1 teaspoon cinnamon, 
1 cup suet, chopped very line. 



222 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

Mix very thoroughly and steam 3 hours. The eggs, citron and 
currants may be omitted, and the pudding be very nice. 

SWEET POTATO PUDDING. 

2 tablespoons butter, )4 nutmeg, grated, 

4 well-beaten eggs, , 1 quart sweet milk, 

1 pint sweet potatoes, Sugar to taste. 

Boil and mash the potatoes ; while still hot, add the other in- 
gredients ; bake in a moderate oven until the pudding is firm and 
brown. This may be eaten either hot or cold and without sauce. 
The same recipe and similar quantities of material will make four 
custards, to be baked in pie plates lined with pastry, but without a 
top crust. 

QUICK PUFF PUDDING. 

1 pint flour, . 1 teaspoon baking [jowder, 

Milk for batter, Pinch of salt. 

Mix the baking powder thoroughly with the flour, add the salt, 
and stir in the milk as lightly as possible. Grease 4 cups, drop 
in 1 spoon of batter, then jelly, preserves, apple butter or any kind 
of fruit, and cover with batter till two-thirds full. Steam 20 min- 
utes and serve with cream and sugar. 

PRUNE PUDDING. 

1 pound French prunes, 6 eggs, whites, 

4 tablespoons powdered sugar. 

Cook the prunes till soft, and sift them through a colander ; add 
the beaten whites of eggs and the powdered sugar. Bake 15 min- 
utes and serve hot with cream, or a butter sauce. 

PRUNELLE PUDDINC. 
5 eggs, 1 coffeecup sweet milk, 

X loaf baker's bread, 1 quart flour, 

2 cups sugar, 1 tablespoon mace, 

1 pound raisins, V 2 tablespoon cloves, 

y 2 pound prunelles, 2 nutmegs, 

1 pound beef suet, 1 tablespoon cinnamon, 

1 pound currants, 1 teaspoon salt. 

Stir the ingredients well together, then add milk to make a soft 
batter ; or, add a wine-glass of jelly and a tumbler of milk. The 
raisins should be stoned, and the prunelles chopped very fine. 
Put the pudding in a buttered basin and steam it 4 hours. 



PUDDINGS. 223 

QUEEN OF PUDDINGS! 

1 pint sifted broad crumbs, 1 quart milk, 

1 cup sugar, 4 eggs, 

Yz ounce butter, 1 lemon. 

Beat the }"olks of eggs and sugar, add the other ingredients, 
omitting the lemon juice, mix and bake like custard; spread with 
layer of jell}'. Whip the whites of eggs to a stiff froth with 5 
tablespoons of sugar and juice of the lemon ; spread on the top 
and brown. 

Sauce for Pudding. 
1 cup sugar, % cup butter, 

% grated rind and juice of 1 lemon. 
Beat to a cream and serve cold. 

QUTNOE PUDDING. 
l cup sugar, 3 eggs, 

] tablespoon flour, 1 pint new milk, 

Quinces. 

Peel, slice and parboil 2 quinces ; remove to fresh water and 
stew like apples ; flavor with nutmeg and cool. Make a custard 
of the other ingredients omitting the whites of eggs, and boil to 
the thickness of cream. Place a layer of fruit in a baking dish, 
then a layer of bread crumbs, and pour over it the custard. Make 
a meringue of the whites of eggs and 3 tablespoons of powdered 
sugar ; put on the pudding and brown lightly. 

RHUBARB PUDDING. 

Butter generously some thin slices of light, stale bread. Place 
a layer of rhubarb in an earthen baking dish, sprinkle lightly with 
sugar, cover with bread slices, another laj-er of fruit, sugar and 
bread until the dish is full, with bread on top. Pour over 1 cup 
of water and cover tightly with a plate, and bake in the oven for 
half an hour or more. Serve hot or cold with sugar and cream. 
The steam should not escape while baking, lest the fruit be not 
thoroughly cooked. Crumbs of stale bread, mixed thoroughly 
with finely-cut rhubarb and sugar, butter and water, and baked as 
above will answer the same purpose. 

KICK PUDDING — 1. 
14 cup rice 8 cups rich milk, 

% teaspoon salt, 1 cup sugar, 

% grated nutmeg, 1 tablespoon butter, 

1 cup raisins. 



224 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

Wash rice and mix ingredients ; bake very slowly for 2 hours. 
If it becomes too dr} r , more milk may be added ; a cup of rich 
cream, stirred in before serving, is an improvement. 

RICE PUDDING — 2. 
S tablespoons sugar, 5 eggs, 

1 cup sweet milk, % nutmeg, 

Yi cup rice. 

Boil the rice dry ;■ beat the eggs with the sugar and nutmeg, 
add the milk gradually, then stir in the rice ; pour in an earthen 
dish, and bake 1 hour. Put little lumps of butter over the top, 
and grate on nutmeg. Do not stir while baking; if the top 
browns too quickly, place a pan of cold water on the top rack of 
the oven just over the pudding dish. Serve the pudding in the 
same dish, with any sauce. 

RICE SNOWBALLS. 

Boil 1 pint rice until soft in 2 quarts water with a teaspoon of 
salt ; put in small cups to cool. Make a boiled custard of the 
yolks of 3 eggs, 1 pint sweet milk, and 1 teaspoon cornstarch ; 
flavor with lemon and set away to cool. Turn the rice balls out 
on a plate and pour the custard over them before serving. 

SAGO AND APPLE PUDDING. 

Pare 6 apples and punch out the cores, fill the holes with cinna- 
mon and sugar, using 2 teaspoons cinnamon to a cup of sugar; 
take 1 tablespoon sago to each apple, wash it thoroughly and lot 
soak an hour in water enough to cover the apples, pour water and 
sago over the apples, and bake \\ hours. Serve with cream. 
Pearl sago is the best ; it is small and white. 

STRAWBERRY ROLL. 

Make a very rich biscuit crust, and roll it into a sheet not more 
than a quarter of an inch in thickness. Spread strawberries 
thickly over, then roll it quickly, moisten the edges and press 
them closely together. Lay the roll on a plate and put it in a 
steamer over a kettle of boiling water. Steam it until done ; the 
time required will depend on the size of the roll. Serve with a 
sauce made bj r adding mashed strawberries to a paste of butter 
and sugar, or sweetened cream. 






, 



PUDDINGS. 225 

SUET PUDDING. 

1 cup molasses, 1 cup suet, chopped fine, 

1 cup milk, 1 cup chopped raisins, 

1 teaspoon soda, 3 cups flour, 

Spices, Salt. 
Mix and steam ?> hours. 

Sauce. 

1 cup butter, 3 cups powdered sugar, 

1 lemon, 2 oranges, 

2 teaspoons cinnamon. 

Cream the butter and sugar, beat in the juice of lemon and 
oranges ; add the cinnamon ; whip hard until very light and 
creamy ; form in attractive shape, set in a cold place and send to 
the table. 

SUTHERLAND PIDDTNO. 

1 quart milk, 5 eggs, 

5 tablespoons flour, % teaspoon salt. 

Heat the milk ; mix carefully the flour with 5 tablespoons cold 
milk, and stir into the well-beaten eggs, adding salt. Pour the 
hot milk over the mixture, beating all the time. Bake 20 minutes 
in a quick oven, either in small cups or a large dish. Serve im- 
mediately. 

Sauce. 
X cup butter, 1 cup sugar, 

1 lemon, juice, Nutmeg, 

3 tablespoons boiling water. 

Cream the butter and sugar, adding lemon juice and boiling 
water. Grate a little nutmeg over it. Or, omit the water and 
eool on ice. 

TAPIOCA PUDDING — 1. 

2 cups water, K cup tapioca, 
2 cups milk, 2 eggs, 
Sugar, Flavoring. 

Wash the tapioca and cook slowly in the water till it softens. 
Add the milk, and cook until thick ; then stir in the well-beaten 
eggs, sugar and flavoring to taste. Pour into a buttered dish and 
bake 45 minutes in a moderate oven. Serve with or without 
cream. 



22G HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

TAPIOCA PUDDING 2. 

K cup tapioca, 2 tablespoons melted butter, 

}i cup sugar, 1 lemon, 

1 pint cold water, 4 eggs, 

1 quart milk, Salt. 

Soak the tapioca over night, or several hours. Add the beaten 
yolks of eggs, sugar, salt, butter, and grated rind of the lemon ; 
mix, and pour over all the milk, heated. Bake in a 1 nattered pud- 
ding dish, and when done cover with a meringue made of the 
beaten whites, 4 tablespoons powdered sugar, and the lemon juice. 
Or, add the whites with the yolks to the pudding, one-half cup 
more sugar and the lemon juice, and bake. Serve with cream. 
Vanilla can be substituted for lemon. 

APPLE TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

y 2 cup tapioca, 6 or 8 apples, 

V/2 pints cold water, Sugar. 

Wash the tapioca, put into the water, and let it cook slowly 
until clear, stirring often to prevent burning. Remove, sweeten, 
and pour the tapioca into a dish in which are the apples, pared and 
cored. Cover with a plate and bake slowly till the apples are 
cooked. Serve with cold cream, or a hard sauce spiced with cin- 
namon. 

TAPIOCA FRUIT PUDDING. 

% cup tapioca, 1 saltspoon salt, 

1 pint water, % cup sugar, 

Boiling water, Fruit. 

Soak the tapioca in the cold water several hours ; add the salt, 
boiling water, and cook slowly until clear, when add the sugar. 
Pour in a layer of tapioca into a pudding dish, then add a layer of 
strawberries or other fruit, sprinkling over it a little sugar. Repeat 
this process till the dish is full. Bake until clear. Serve with 
cream. Stew hard fruits before using. Pearl tapioca is the best 
for use in puddings. 






PUDDING SAUCE. 1'27 

PUDDING SAUCES. 

BUTTERLESS SAUCE. 
Yz pint powdered sugar, 2 eggs, 

Yz gill milk, Flavoring. 

Put the milk into a double kettle ; when hot add the 3 - olks of 
eggs beaten well with the sugar. Cook as custard, take off and 
add flavoring when cool. Just before serving mix the well-beaten 
whites lightly with the sauce. 

CARAMEL SAUCE. 
1 cup sugar, Large stick cinnamon. 

3 cloves, 1 cup boiling water, 

Lemon peel. 
Boil these together 10 minutes. Make a caramel from 4 table- 
spoons granulated sugar and 2 tablespoons water. Cook it over a 
hot fire in an old tin pan ; stir with a smooth stick until the water 
evaporates, and it is a nice brown color. Strain the sauce over 
the caramel, let it come to a boil and remove from the fire. 

CHOCOLATE SAUCE. 
1 cup milk, 4 tablespoons grated chocolate, 

% cup cream, 2 eggs, yolks, 

% cup sugar, 1 teaspoon vanilla. 

Boil the chocolate in the milk ; beat the eggs and sugar to- 
gether, and pour over them the hot milk ; whip in the cream, cook 
like boiled custard, and add vanilla after it is taken from the fire. 

CREAM SAUCE 1. 

1 cup powdered sugar, % cup sweet cream, 

Yz cup butter, Yz cup boiling water, 

Flavoring. 

Rub the butter and sugar together, add the cream, the boiling 

water, and cook a few minutes in a double boiler or a pail set in 

boiling water, stirring constantly. Flavor when cool. 

CREAM SAUCE — 2. 

1 pint cream, % cup sugar, 

3 eggs, whites, Nutmeg. 

Let the cream come almost to boiling in a custard kettle ; set 
off, add the sugar and grated nutmeg, with a little rose-water, if 
liked. Stir thoroughly, and when cool add the well-beaten whites 
of eggs. Set in hot water to keep warm till needed, stirring 
occasionally. 



228 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

COLD CREAM SAUCE. 

1 cup sugar, % cup butter, 

1 cup cream, Flavor to taste. 

Beat the butter and sugar together, add the cream and flavoring, 
whip thoroughly and set on ice. 

FRUIT CREAM SAUCE. 

1 cup sugar, 4 tablespoons cream, 

X cup butter, 4 tablespoons fruit juice. 

Put the sugar, butter and cream into a custard kettle and beat 
until it becomes thick and froth}-. Add fruit juice, or hot water 
and nutmeg, and serve. 

PLAIN CREAM SAUCE. 

1 pint cream, Nutmeg to taste, 

3 tablespoons brown sugar. 

Beat all together thoroughby. 

WHIPPED CREAM SAUCE. 

1 pint cream, 2 eggs, whites, 

Powdered sugar, Flavor to taste. 

Sweeten the cream, whip, and add flavoring. Beat whites of 
eggs to a stiff froth, and then whip all together. 

CUSTARD SAUCE. 
1 pint rich milk, 3 eggs, yolks, 

3 tablespoons sugar, Flavoring. 

Boil the milk, and pour slowly over the beaten eggs and sugar ; 
strain into a custard kettle and cook until it thickens. Flavor to 
taste, and serve cold. A delicate flavor is given by boiling a stick 
of cinnamon in the milk. 

FRUIT JUICE SAUCE. 
1 cup sugar, Yz cup butter, 

1 cup juice, x / 2 cup boiling water, 

2 teaspoons cornstarch. 

Cream the butter, sugar and cornstarch, and beat into the boil- 
ing water. When thick and frothy take from the fire and add the 
fruit juice or one-half cup of beaten jell}\ Set over hot water till 
served. Or, take canned fruit juice, or syrup from preserves or 
canned fruits.' Boil and thicken with cornstarch in the proportion 
of 1 teaspoon to 1 cup of juice. 



PUDDING SAUCE. 229 

GOLDEX SAUCE. 
2 eggs, yolks, 3 tablespoons boiling water, 

1 cup sugar, Lemon juice, 

Nutmeg. 

Beat the eggs and sugar until creamj*. Set the bowl into a ket- 
tle of boiling water and beat steadily while pouring in the boiling 
water. When thick and foamy, remove from the fire, add the 
juice of 1 lemon, and grate nutmeg on the top of the sauce. The 
juice of an orange and half the grated rind may be used instead 
of lemon juice and nutmeg. 

HARD SAUCE. 
1 cup powdered sugar, % cup butter, 

Lemon juice, Nutmeg. 

Cream the butter and sugar and. beat in the lemon juice. Place 
in a mould, set on ice, and serve when cold, grating a little nut- 
meg over it. This is made more delicate by adding the well- 
beaten whites of 2 eggs before setting away to harden. 

JELLY SAUCE. 

1 cup boiling water, %, cup cold water, 
y z cup jelly, 2 tablespoons sugar, 

2 teaspoons cornstarch. 

Melt the sugar and jelly in the boiling water, and stir into it the 
cornstarch dissolved in the cold water, let it come to a boil and 
serve hot. 

LEMOX SAUCE. 

2 cups sugar. 2 eggs, 

2 cups boiling water, 2 lemons, 

2 teaspoons cornstarch, 1 tablespoon butter. 

Beat eggs, sugar, butter and cornstarch together, and pour over 
them the boiling water, stirring constantly ; strain and cook over 
boiling water until thick ; remove from the fire, and add the juice 
and grated rind of the lemons. 

MAPLE SUGAR SAUCE. 

1 cup water, 4 tablespoons butter, 

1 cup sugar, 1 teaspoon flour. 

Melt the sugar in the water over a slow fire ; remove the scum ; 
add the butter mixed well with the flour; boil 5 minutes, and 
serve with boiled puddings. 



230 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

MINNEHAHA SAUCE. 

\ l /z cups brown sugar , 4 tablespoons sweet cream, 

4 tablespoons butter, 1 lemon, juice and grated rind. 

Beat the butter and sugar to a cream with a wooden spoon, add 
the cream and the lemon. Set the bowl containing the mixture 
into a teakettle half full of boiling water. When the sauce is 
melted to a thick cream, serve. 

MILK SAUCE. 

l*cup sugar, 1 cup milk, 

l /i cup butter, 1 egg, 

1 stick cinnamon. 

Cream the sugar and butter, and add the well-beaten egg. Boil 

the cinnamon in the milk, and pour over the mixture, stirring 

ORANGE SAUCE. 
1 cup butter, 2 cups powdered sugar, 

2 oranges, juice and 1 grated rind. 
Cream the butter and sugar, and stir in the oranges. Mould, 
set on ice, and serve with nutmeg grated over it. 

Lemon sauce maj^ be made b} r substituting the juice and grated 
rind of 1 lemon for the oranges. 

PINEAPPLE SAUCE. 

Add a very little water to a grated pineapple, simmer till ten- 
der, mix with it by degrees half its weight in sugar, boil gently 5 
minutes and serve. A few strawberries dropped into the sauce 
improves the flavor and appearance. 

PLAIN SAUCE. 

1 cup molasses, 2 teaspoons flour, 

1 cup brown sugar, 1 teaspoon cinnamon, 
14 cup butter, % teaspoon cloves, 
Lemon juice, 1 teaspoon nutmeg, 

1 cup boiling water. 
Mix together the molasses, sugar, butter, flour and spices. Put 
into a saucepan, or custard kettle, add the boiling water, stir well, 
and let boil till clear. Strain and add the lemon juice. 

STRAWBERRY SAUCE. 
\)4. cups sugar, % cup butter, 

2 cups crushed strawberries, 1 egg, white. 

Rub the butter and sugar to a cream and stir in the berries and 
the beaten white of an egg. 



PUDDING SAUCE. 2:'.] 

VANILLA SAUCE. 
1 cup milk, 1 large teaspoon vanilla, 

3 eggs, 2 tablespoons sugar. 

Heat the milk in a double boiler, and pom- over the yolks of 
eggs beaten with the sugar; strain, and return to the kettle; cook 
till it thickens, remove from the lire and add vanilla and the 
beaten whites of eggs. 

VINEQAE SAUCE. 

1 cup brown sugar, 1 tablespoon butter, 

2 cups boiling water, 1 tablespoon vinegar, 
A pinch of salt, 1 tablespoon flour. 

Omit the water and beat the other ingredients well together. 
Add the boiling water, stir thoroughly and boil 10 minutes. 
Serve. 



DRINKS. 

PURE water is the one necessaiy beverage, but desire or habit 
makes three others essential. Of these three, chocolate both 
nourishes and strengthens the S3'stein, and science claims that cof- 
fee is not only a gentle, natural stimulant, but nourishing in a 
small degree, while tea is stimulating and astringent. Many ob- 
ject to chocolate because of its hearty character, but there are 
various preparations which adapt it to the most delicate. Tannic 
acid, the injurious property in coffee and tea, is repressed or devel- 
oped in making. 

Do not make coffee in a tea-pot. or tea in one used for choco- 
late, but let each have its own vessel. Keep them clean, scald 
before using, and afterward wash in fresh water, rinse, and dry 
immediately. 

As the life of water is destroyed by long boiling or re-boiling, 
use only fresh-boiled water in making these drinks. Give the 
preference to soft rather than hard water for such purposes. 

Hot milk is a most refreshing and nourishing beverage, and one 
that cannot be too highly recommended. Directions for preparing 
it are given in the recipe. 

During hot weather, drinks made from fruits, or their juices in 
some form, are especially grateful and necessary to health. The 
acid of lime and lemon juice, and of shrubs, or the sub-acid of 
fruit juices, not only allay thirst, but cool the blood and supply a 
natural tonic greatly needed by the system. 

Two recipes are given for the old-fashioned root beer made by 
the mothers and grandmothers of the present generation. They 
will be found most palatable as well as healthful and invigorating. 

For an immediate effect when warm or cold, hungry or ex- 
hausted, drink is preferable to a solid food, as some time is re- 

232 



• ' DRINKS. 233 

quired for the latter to affect the system. Cold water, not ice- 
water, in small quantities, is the best to allay great thirst. Hold 
it in the mouth close to the tonsils before swallowing, while keep- 
ing the palms of the hands wet and a wet cloth around the wrists. 
The best drinks for the other conditions are milk, chocolate and 
broth. 

COFFEE. 

To avoid adulteration, buy coffee in the grain, either raw or in 
small quantities freshly roasted. The best kinds are the Mocha 
and 0. (I. Java : mix the two, having roasted them separately, in 
the proportion of one-third of the former to two-thirds of the lat- 
ter. West India coffee, though of a different flavor, is often good. 

Roast coffee with the greatest care — here lies the secret of suc- 
cess in coffee-making — and in small quantities, for there is a pe- 
culiar freshness of flavor when newly roasted. Pick over carefulh*, 
wash and dry in a moderate oven, increase the heat and roast 
quickly, either in the oven, or on top of the stove or range ; in the 
latter case, stir constant^, and in the oven stir often, with a 
wooden spoon or ladle kept for this purpose. The coffee must be 
thoroughly and evenly roasted to a rich brown throughout, and 
must be free from any burnt grains, a few of which will ruin the 
flavor. It must be tender and brittle ; to test it take a grain, 
place it on the table, press with the thumb, and if it can be 
crushed, it is done. Stir in a lump of butter while the coffee is 
hot. or wait until about half cold and stir in a well-beaten egg. 
The latter plan is very economical, as coffee so prepared needs no 
further clarifying. Keep in a closely-covered tin or earthen ves- 
sel. Never attempt other work while roasting coffee, but give it 
the entire attention. Grind fine, and only in the quantity needed, 
for the flavor is dissipated after grinding, even when covered. If 
properly roasted, coffee will grind into distinct, hard, and gritty 
particles, and not into a powder. 

Physicians say thai coffee without cream is more wholesome. 
particularly Cor delicate persons. There is an element in coffee 
which, combining with milk, forms ; i leathery coating <>n the stom 
achj and impairs digestion 



234 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

The general proportions used in making -ground coffee are one 
large tablespoon to each cup of water, and one for the pot, using 
the yolk of an egg for twelve tablespoons of coffee. The white of 
the egg adds nothing, and unless great care is taken forms a coat- 
ing around the crushed grains which prevents the extraction of 
their strength. Coffee should not be boiled over one minute, and 
that very lightly, as boiling destroys not only its delicacy and 
aroma, but develops its tannic properties. 

ARMY COFFEE. 

Coffee may be made quickly by placing the required quantity of 
cold water in a pot, and adding the coffee, tied up in a sack of fine 
gauze or piece of muslin ; bring to the boiling point, boil 5 min- 
utes and serve. Make tea in the same way, putting it loose into 
the water and only allow it to come to a boil. 

COFFEE WITH WHIPPED CREAM. 

For 6 cups of coffee of fair size, take 1 cup cream whipped 
light with a little sugar ; put into each cup the desired amount of 
sugar and about 1 tablespoon boiling milk ; pour the coffee over 
these and lay upon the surface of the hot liquid 1 large table- 
spoon of the frothed cream, giving a gentle stir to each cup before 
serving. This is known to some as meringued coffee, and it is an 
elegant French preparation of the popular drink. Chocolate 
served in this way is delicious. 

COFFEE AND EGG. 

This is a very stimulating drink. To 1 cup of strong coffee, 
add half a cup of sweet milk, and 1 heaping teaspoon of sugar ; 
let the coffee, milk and sugar just come to a boil, then pour it over 
a well-beaten egg, and serve at once. 

FILTERED COFFEE. 

The French coffee biggin furnishes the easiest means for filter- 
ing coffee. It is made of earthen ware or tin ; the former is 
preferable as retaining heat longer, and being more easily man- 
aged. The latter consists of two cylindrical tin vessels, one fitting 
into the other ; the bottom of the upper one is a fine strainer, an- 
other coarser strainer is placed on this with a rod running upwards 
from its center; the finely ground coffee is put in, and then an- 
other strainer is slipped on the rod, over the coffee, the boiling 






DRINKS. 235 

water is poured on the upper sieve and falls in a shower upon the 
coffee, filtering through it to the coarse strainer at the bottom, 
which prevents the coffee from filling up the holes of the finer 
strainer below it. The coffee thus made is clear and pure. 

The ''One Minute" as well as the •National " coffee-pot are so 
widely known as to need no description, and full directions for 
use come with them. Both are good. The filtered coffee is con- 
sidered by many to possess a finer flavor than any other, and is 
more economical. 

FRENCH COFFEE. 

If one has no dripper or French coffee-pot, a bag may be used, 
but it is a poor substitute. A tin dripper, with perforations in the 
bottom, is made to fit into the coffee-pot. Fill it nearly full of 
ground coffee, allowing only room enough to pour in a little water 
— not more than 3 or 4 tablespoons at a time. When it has 
dripped through into the coffee-pot, add more water, and so con- 
tinue until there is enough coffee made. The water should be 
boiling when poured in, but should not boil afterward. It is not 
necessary to use an egg ; the grounds cannot possibly get through 
the sieve. It is a mistake to think that it does not deteriorate by 
standing. Try when first made, and again after it has stood for 
half an hour, and see if ft has not a bitter taste without the pleas- 
ant aroma. 

'•THE HOrSEKEEPER." COFFEE. 

The housekeeper should roast the coffee, if possible, and not 
grind till wanted. Allow 1 tablespoon fine ground coffee for each 
cup of hot water ; put the coffee into a new basin or cup, and 
shake gently over the fire until hot enough to give off a light 
smoke ; then pour over it 1 cup boiling water, and turn at once 
into the coffee-pot which must be spotlessly clean. Add as much 
more hot water as will be needed, return to the lire to boil 1 min- 
ute, and set back where it can simmer 5 minutes. Remove from 
the fire, add a spoonful of cold water, and let it settle a little while 
before pouring out. It will be delicious. If cream is not to be 
had, scald some milk, and put a little into each cup before pouring 
the coffee. 



236 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

COFFEE FOR ONE HUNDRED. 

5 pounds coffee, 5 gallons water, 

6 eggs. 
Grind the coffee and mix with the eggs and a little water ; make 
small muslin sacks, putting 1 pint of coffee into each, leaving room 
for it to swell. Pour 1 gallon of cold water into a large coffee urn 
or boiler, which has a faucet at the bottom. Put in part of the 
sacks and let stand 30 minutes. Set over the fire, add 3 gallons 
boiling water and boil 1 minute. Add fresh sacks when needed, 
taking out the old ones, and more boiling water. To make strong 
coffee for twenty persons, use 1 % pints ground coffee to 1 gallon 
water. 

ICED COFFEE. 

Take equal parts of strong coffee and sweet cream. Add sugar 
to taste, put in a pitcher packed in pounded ice till read}* to serve. 
Or, set strong coffee on the ice when cold, and serve with cracked 
ice in each glass. 

CAFE AU LAIT. 

Make strong, clear coffee ; if not filtered, pour off from the 
grounds ; add an equal quantity of hot milk, scalded, not boiled, 
and serve very hot. Instead of milk one-third the quantity of 
cream may be added. 

cafe noir — 1. 

Use the earthen coffee biggin ; have it hot and see that the 
strainers are all in order with the coffee ground fine enough to es- 
cape the first but not the second strainer. Allow 2 heaping table- 
spoons of coffee to each cup of water, and 1 more ; pour the water 
slowly over the grounds, and cover tightly. When it has dripped 
through, pour out and back over the grounds. Repeat the process 
one or more times. Keep the pot where it will just escape boil- 
ing, and be sure that the spout and top are well covered. Serve 
immediately in small cups with sweet, fresh cream, otherwise the 
heat of the coffee will curdle it. 

cafe noir — 2. 

This is a very strong coffee, and in making use at least twice 
the amount ordinarily required for each person. Serve in small 
cups without cream. 



DRINKS. 237 

PRAIRIE COFFEE. 

1 pint corn meal, 1 pint wheat flour, 

Yi cup molasses, 1 teaspoon salt, 

Water for stiff dough. 
Mix, roll thin, cut out like yeast cakes ; put in a pan and dry in 
the oven. When thoroughly dry, brown very dark. To use, put 
2 or 3 of the cakes and 1 tablespoon of the coffee in the pot, pour 
on boiling water, let boil and settle. 

RICH AND STRONG COFFEE. 

1 cup best ground coffee, 1 quart boiling water, 

1 egg, white, % cup cold water. 

Beat the white, mix with the coffee, add cold water, put in the 

coffee-pot and stir in gradually the boiling water. Boil 1 minute. 

Take from the fire and put on the hearth to settle. 

STEAMED COFFEE. 

Put coffee into the pot, pour boiling water on it ; place this pot, 
which is made to fit, into the top of the teakettle, and cook from 
10 to 20 minutes over boiling water. This makes a clear, de- 
licious coffee. Some persons hold that by first wetting the coffee 
with cold water, bringing it to boiling point, and then pouring in 
boiling water, more of the strength is extracted. 

VIENNA COFFEE. 

Filter the coffee, allowing 1 tablespoon ground coffee to each per- 
son, and 1 for the pot. Put 1 quart of cream into a custard kettle 
or pail set into boiling water, where it will keep boiling ; beat the 
white of 1 egg to a froth and mix well with 3 tablespoons cold 
milk. As soon as the cream is hot, remove from fire, add the 
mixed egg and milk. Stir together for 1 minute and serve. 

Another method is to pour boiling water over the coffee, cover 
closery, boil 1 minute, remove to the side of the stove a few min- 
utes to settle and serve. Allow 2 heaping tablespoons coffee to 1 
pint water. 

GOOD SUBSTITUTE FOR CREAM IN COFFEE. 

Beat well the white of an egg, and add a small lump of butter, 
whipping all together. Pour coffee over this slowly, stirring so it 
will not curdle. 



238 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

CHOCOLATE AND COCOA. 

These are derived from the seed of the fruit of a small tropical 
tree. There are several forms in which they are sold, the most 
nutritious and convenient being chocolate, the next cocoa, then 
cocoa nibs, and last cocoa shells. Cocoa shells are the shells of 
the bean, usually removed before grinding. The beans are roasted 
like coffee, and ground between hot rollers. 

For common use chocolate or cocoa can be made in pretty much 
the same wa^y, and is much nicer and far more wholesome for an 
every day drink, than if made in the rich way usually given in 
cook books. Take an ounce square of chocolate, shave with a 
knife, it is not necessary to grate, and put into a small granite 
saucepan with about half a cup of water. Stir over the fire until 
the chocolate is dissolved into a smooth, creamy paste, then add 
slowly 1 pint hot water, 4 tablespoons sugar and one-fourth tea- 
spoon vanilla, unless it is the sweet chocolate; if so, omit the 
sugar and vanilla, and boil 20 minutes ; add 1 quart hot milk, not 
boiled, and serve. It requires boiling to bring out the rich, soft 
flavor of the chocolate, and by boiling first in a little water, it is 
richer and smoother, and the milk only requires to be hot when 
added. If more chocolate is desired, the quantity can be increased 
to suit the taste ; but 1 ounce to 1 quart of milk makes a much 
pleasanter drink for a family, not being so much like a rich con- 
fection. 

Let every family have whichever drink the3 T prefer for break- 
fast ; but, at leasi; occasionally, as on Sunda}' mornings, have choc- 
olate for the little folks. It is very nourishing, and if the milk is 
not boiled, veiy wholesome, and made in this way, is not an expen- 
sive drink. 

PIERRE BLOT'S CHOCOLATE. 

The quantity of chocolate for a certain quantity of milk is ac- 
cording to taste. A good thick cup is made b} T using 2 ounces of 
chocolate. Break the chocolate in pieces, put in a saucepan, add- 
ing 1 tablespoon of water to each ounce, and set over a slow fire. 
Stir occasionally till melted. While this is melting, heat the 
amount of milk desired, and when it rises turn into the melted 
chocolate, little by little, beating well at the same time with an egg 



DRINKS. 239 

beater: Keep beating and boiling 3 or 4 minutes: takeoff and 
serve. If both chocolate and milk are good this will be frothy. 

CHOCOLATE. 

4 tablespoons grated chocolate, 2 cups milk, 

4 tablespoons whipped cream, Sugar to taste. 

Take a little of the milk, and put with the chocolate into a 
double boiler and rub smooth. When melted, add the remainder 
of the milk, which should be at the boiling point, also sugar if de- 
sired. Mix thoroughly and cook 5 minutes. Take off and beat 
with a Dover egg beater till smooth and foamy. Lav the whipped 
cream upon the chocolate when poured into cups. 

EGG CHOCOLATE. 

4 dessertspoons grated chocolate, 3 cups milk, 

1 egg, 2 cups water. 

Cook milk and water in a double boiler ; if preferred use only 

milk; when boiling dip out a few spoonfuls on the chocolate, rub 

smooth and pour into the hot milk. Boil 5 minutes ; add the eo-o- 

well beaten and mixed with a little of the boiling chocolate. Mix 

quickly and pour off into a pitcher to prevent the curdling of the 

egg. The yolk or white alone may be used. 

VIENNA CHOCOLATE. 

1 pint cream. 1 pint, milk, 

3 heaping tablespoons chocolate. 
Pour cream and milk into a pot set in boiling water ; stir in the 
grated chocolate after mixing to a paste with eold in ilk ; let boil 2 
or 3 minutes and serve at once. 

COCOA. 

2 cups boiling water, 4 large teaspoons cocoa. 
•2 cups hot milk, 4 level teaspoons sugar. 

Let the water boil in the pot; stir in the mixed cocoa and sugar 
and let boil 3 minutes. Add the milk, boil 1 minute, take off 
beat 1 minute and serve. Baker's, Hurler's or Van liouten's 
OOCOas are all nice made this way. 

ALKATHREPTA. BROMA, K.U'AHOTT. 

These are delicate preparations of cocoa, and have directions for 
making printed on the package. 



240 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

TEA. 

Liebig says : ' ' Tea as a beverage contains the active constituents 
of the most powerful mineral springs, and, however small the 
amount of iron which ma}- be taken daily in this form, it cannot 
be destitute of influence on the vital processes. The infusion of 
tea differs from that of coffee, b}* containing iron and manganese." 
Because of its astringent property it should not be used for break- 
fast, and ought rather to be taken after a substantial meal than 
when eating, as it then impairs digestion Tea is classed under 
two varieties, green and black, which are the result of different 
methods of preparation of the leaf of the plant, at different stages 
of growth. Gunpowder and Young Hyson are the finest of the 
green, and Souchong and Pekoe of the black teas. English 
Breakfast tea is liked b} T niany who never use the other varieties. 
Strong green tea is pernicious and should never be used. For 
mixed tea, use four teaspoons black to one of green tea. In mak- 
ing tea, the old rule of allowing a teaspoon to each cup and one 
over, holds good. If the water is boiling and the leaf abundant 
the tea will almost always be good. Heat the pot for 2 minutes, put 
in the required amount of tea, cover with boiling water, and let 
stand 5 minutes in a hot place. Then add the boiling water, re- 
quired and set where it will keep hot but not boil, as that spoils 
it. Serve at the end of 5 or 10 minutes. Make fresh tea each 
time, and if there is any left to be used, pour off at once into a 
clean pitcher, as it will become rank to stand on the leaves. 
Whore there is a large party to make tea for, use two teapots in- 
stead of one. 

A oup or TEA. 

There are few housekeepers who know how to make a good cup 
of tea. Try this plan: Have the teapot clean and dry; put in a 
level teaspoon of tea to each person ; set it before the fire 3 min- 
utes, without water, to open the leaves and improve the aroma ; 
cover with water that has just come to a boil ; let stand 5 minutes 
where it will keep hot; add sufficient boiling water. If a good 
grade of tea is used the drink will be perfect. Pouring on all the 
water at first causes a bitter taste. 



JHJ1NKS 241 

ICED TEA 1. 

Prepare tea in the morning, making it stronger and sweeter than 
usual ; strain and pour into a clean stone jug or glass bottle, and 
set aside in the ice chest until ready to use. Drink from goblets 
without cream. Serve ice broken in small pieces on a platter 
nicely garnished with well-washed grape leaves. 

ICED TEA 2. 

Iced tea should have no hot water poured over it, but be allowed 
to stand in cold water for several hours. It should be made very 
strong, then weakened with ice. Soft water should always be 
used for making tea. 

RUSSIAN TEA. 

Into freshly-steeped tea drop slices of lemon, without the seeds. 
in the proportion of 1 slice to 1 small cup of tea. It can be used 
with or without sugar, and is particularly nice if served cold with 
bits of ice in the cups. 

MISCELLANEOUS RECIPES. 

GINGER REER 1. 

2 ounces ginger root, 4 quarts boiling water, 

2 ounces cream of tartar, 1 lemon, juice and rind, 

\}4 pounds sugar, K cup yeast. 

Break the ginger root into small pieces, put in a large bowl or 
crock with the sugar, cream of tartar and lemon ; pour on boiling 
water, and when lukewarm, add yeast. Let it stand 6 hours, 
strain, and put up in self-sealing bottles. It should be kept in a 
cool place. 

GINGER REER 2. 

5 ounces ginger root, K gallon water 

1 lemon, yellow peel. 

Ordinary ginger, tied in a bag, may be substituted for the root ; 
boil the ingredients one-half hour, then add 

4 gallons water, x /i pound honey, 

5 pounds sugar, 1)4 pints yeast, 

Juice of 4 lemons. 

Strain when cold, add the well-beaten white at 1 ego- ; let stand 
4 days and then bottle. 



242 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

LEMON BEER. 

1 gallon water, 1 lemon, sliced, 

}4 pint yeast, 1 tablespoon ginger, 

Sugar. 
Scald the lemon and ginger in the water ; cool, add yeast, and 
sweeten to taste. 

OLD-TIME ROOT BEER. 

1 part black birch bark, % the quantity of Prince's pine, 

1 part wintergreen, leaves and stems, 1 small root fennel, 
y 2 the quantity of spruce twigs, 6 gallons water. 

Pour cold water over the herbs and roots, bring to the boiling 
point, and boil till the strength is extracted. Strain, and if there 
is too strong a flavor, dilute with water. Add 1 pound of sugar 
to every gallon of the mixture, and 1 cup of j^east, while luke- 
warm. It should stand 24 hours and be stirred frequentty. At 
the end of this time, bottle or pour into a small keg. This makes 
a refreshing and wholesome summer drink. 

ROOT BEER. 
1 small handful bloodroot, 2 handfuls cherry bark. 

1 small handful prickly ash bark, 2 handfuls popple bark, 

8 large handfuls spikenard root, 4 handfuls burdock root, 

s large handfuls sarsaparilla, 4 handfuls dandelion root, 

1 handful hops, 1 cup yeast, 

Sugar to taste. 
Wash roots and barks thoroughly, and cover with water in a 
large kettle. Boil slowly until their strength is extracted. Strain, 
dilute and sweeten to taste ; when cool add yeast and let stand 24 
hours. Bottle or cork tightly in large stone jugs. If spruce 
twigs or wintergreen can be obtained, use them also, for they will 
improve the beer. 

FRUIT BEVERAGE. 

12 lemons, 2 pounds best sugar, 

1 pineapple, 3 quarts cold water, 

1 quart ripe raspberries. 
Peel the lemons very thin ; squeeze the juice over the peel, let 
it stand 2 hours and add 1 pound of the sugar ; mash the raspber- 
ries with one-half pound of sugar ; pare the pineapple, picking or 
grating the fruit from the core, and cover with the remainder of 
the sugar. Strain the lemon juice, crush the raspberry, press the 
pineapple and mix all together, adding the water. Stir till the 



DRINKS. 243 

sugar is- thoroughly dissolved, then strain and serve. It is nicer 
to be very cold, but not iced. Strawberries can be substituted for 
raspberries, if desired. In that ease, leave a few whole ones to 
serve in the glass. 

BLACK CURRANT CUP. 
% pint black currant juice, Sugar, 

1 quart weak green tea, Ice. 

Mix tea and currant juice ; add sugar till sufficiently sweet ; 
cool, and pour into glasses in which are pieces of ice. 

GRANDMOTHERS HARVEST DRINK. 

1 quart water, 1 tablespoon sifted ginger, 
3 tablespoons sugar, % cup vinegar. 

This is nice without the vinegar. 

CURRANT JUICE. 

The juice of the currant, sealed air tight while boiling hot, will 
keep without fermentation, and makes a pleasant and beneficial 
drink for the spring of the year when the appetite craves the health- 
ful acid. To each goblet of water, allow 2 tablespoons of the j uice 
and a very little sugar. It is excellent as a remedial agency in 
case of bilious derangement, and taken hot just before retiring- 
will break a cold. It is as pleasant to take as lemonade, and 
equally efficacious. 

FRUIT JUICES. 

This recipe can be used for all kinds of berries. Heat the fruit, 
mash and strain, as in making jelly. Put on the fire and cook 15 
minutes, skimming until it is clear. To eveiy quart of juice put 
1 cup of heated sugar. Boil 10 minutes and seal in cans. This 
is excellent in sauces and various kinds of cooking, as well as for 
beverages. 

KOUMYSS. 

Put into a long-necked quart bottle 4 tablespoons of fresh yeast, 
1 tablespoon powdered sugar, and fill with milk fresh from the 
cow ; cork tightly and fasten with cord or wire. Let stand in a 
wai-m place until the liquid begins to thicken, then lay on the side 
in the cellar for a week. It will be a fine article for use. 

LEMONADE 1. 

2 lemons, 4 tablespoons sugar, 

1 pint water, hot or cold. 



244 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

Use medium sized lemons, roll till soft, cut through the center, 
and squeeze out the juice; strain out the seeds; add sugar and 
water in the proportions given. Or, slice thin, remove seeds, 
sprinkle with sugar, add a little boiling water, and let stand 1 
hour before adding more water, strain, and put on ice. 

LEMONADE 2. 

5 lemons, 2 tablespoons fruit, 

2 oranges, 1 cup sugar, 

3 pints cold water. 

Slice the Lemons and oranges over the sugar. Bruise them well, 
pour on the water, and add crushed strawberries, raspberries, or 
cherries, with a few slices of pineapple. At the end of an hour, 
strain and serve. 

EGG LEMONADE. 

Beat the yolk and white of 1 egg separately, and then beat to- 
gether. Make half a glass of strong, sweet lemonade, and whip 
thoroughly into the beaten egg. 

MEAD. 

4 pounds sugar, 2 ounces tartaric acid, 

% pound Spanish sarsaparilla. 

Boil sarsaparilla 5 hours ; strain off 2 quarts, add sugar and 
acid. Allow a wineglass of syrnp and half a teaspoon soda to 
half a pint of water. 

HOT MILK. 

For many people hot milk is far more healthful than tea or cof- 
fee, and no medicine acts so quickly upon one thoroughly ex- 
hausted. It rests, revives, and nourishes. Put the desired quan- 
tity into a double boiler, or a pail set in boiling water. Serve 
when it is scalding hot. 

CREAM NECTAR. 

4 quarts water, 4 ounces tartaric acid, 

4 pounds sugar, . 6 eggs, whites, 

1% ounces essence of lemon. 

Dissolve the sugar in the water, and let boil ; when cold, add 
tartaric acid, lemon, the whites of the eggs beaten stiff, and bottle. 
Use equal quantities of nectar and water, adding sufficient bi-car- 
bonate of soda to make it effervesce. 



DRINKS. 245 

IMPERIAL NECTAR. 

1 quart, water. \% pounds sugar, 

1^ ounces tartaric acid, % ounce gum arabic, 

1 teaspoon flour, 5 eggs, whites. 

Dissolve acid, gum arabic, and sugar in the water ; beat the 
whites of eggs and flour thoroughly ; then add one-half cup of 
water. When the syrup is blood-warm, add the whites ; boil 3 
minutes. Take 3 tablespoons of syrup to two-thirds of a glass of 
water ; add one-third teaspoon bi-carbonate of soda ; stir well, and 
drink slowly. 

EGGNOG. 

1 well-beaten egg, 2 tablespoons sugar, 

Glass of sweet, rich milk. 
Mix all together thoroughly and sprinkle with nutmeg. Good 
in summer complaints. 

ORANGEADE 1. 

1 pint strained orange juice, % cup lemon juice, 

Yi pint simple syrup, Strawberries or pineapple. 

Mix the fruit juices and the syrup together, add more syrup if 
desired sweeter. Dilute with water, and serve, putting into each 
glass 3 strawberries or a bit of pineapple. 

ORANGEADE 2. 

4 pints water, % pound sugar, 

12 oranges. 
Make a syrup of 1 pint water and the sugar. Boil and skim. 
Add peels of 3 and juice of 12 oranges, and the remainder of the 
water, boiling. Cool and set on ice. 

LEMON PUNCH. 

5 lemons, 2 pounds lump sugar, 

2 oranges, 4 eggs, whites, 

\y& quarts ice-water. 
Grate the yellow rind of the oranges and 2 lemons over the 
sugar, adding the juice of the oranges and all the lemons. Let 
stand 3 or 4 hours, or until the sugar is dissolved. Stir well, add- 
ing the stiffly-beaten whites, and pour the water over all. Serve 
in tumblers. 

FRUIT SYRUPS. 
1 pound sugar, 1 pint water, 

1 pint fruit juice. 
Make a thick syrup with the sugar and water. Cook well, skim 



2 16 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

off anjr impurities that arise, and add 1 pint of fresh fruit juice. 
Skim as it begins to boil, and cook slowly one-half an hour. If 
syrups are made on a damp, muggy day, cook onerhalf hour 
longer. 

GRAPE SHRUB. 

Break the grapes, put into a stone jar, cover with cider vinegar. 
Cover the jar tightl}', press and stir the grapes frequently. After 

3 days, strain through a cheese-cloth bag, and again through a 
thicker one. Add 5 pounds sugar to 3 quarts juice ; set on the 
fire, skim and boil 10 minutes; seal while hot. Add water to 
make a pleasant drink. 

RASPBERRY SHRUB 1. 

Take 6 or 8 quarts of fine black raspberries ; pour over sufficient 
cider vinegar to reach the upper layer of berries, but not to cover 
them ; let stand 24 hours. Strain the berries and vinegar through 
a colander, mashing the berries. Strain again through a coarse 
cloth, and measure the juice. Allow 1 pound of sugar to 1 pint 
of juice. Put the juice over the fire to boil in a porcelain-lined 
kettle; boil 20 minutes, then add the sugar and boil 10 minutes 
longer. Bottle the liquid in pint bottles. A bottle is sufficient to 
flavor a two-quart pitcher of ice-water ; 1 cupful gives a very pleas- 
ant flavor. 

RASPBERRY SHRUB — 2. 

Place red raspberries in a stone jar, cover with cider vinegar, 
let stand 24 hours, then strain, and to 1 pint of juice add 1 pint of 
sugar; boil 10 minutes, skim, and bottle while hot. 

CREAM SODA. 
1 pound loaf sugar, 1 quart water, 

1 pint rich cream, 1-5 ounce vanilla, 

% ounce tartaric acid. 

Bring slowly to a boil. If corked too long it will crystallize. 
Use 1 tablespoon syrup and one-third teaspoon soda to a glass of 
water. 

LEMON OR ORANGE SYRUP. 

To each pint of the juice of fresh, sound fruit, add 1£ pounds 
sugar. Boil, skim, and seal in jars or bottles. 



DRINKS. 247 

LEMON SVRLTP. 
12 lemons, juice. 6 lemons, grated rind, 

6 pounds white sugar. 
Make a syrup of the sugar. When quite co8l, strain the lemon 
juice into it and squeeze as much oil from the grated rind as will 
suit the taste. A tablespoon in a goblet of water makes a delicious 
drink on a hot day, far superior to that prepared from that com- 
monly sold as lemon syrup. 

TAMARIND WATER. 

Shell a cupful of tamarinds, breaking the shell at the stem end 
and pulling out its contents. Brush off the woody fibres, take 
away the soft pulp surrounding the seeds, and put into the cup. 
When full, empt} r into a bowl, turn a pint of boiling water over 
the tamarinds, and stir till the seeds are bare and the mixture is 
thick. Add a cup of sugar and strain the pulp into a pint of cold 
water; ice and serve. A very acceptable whey is also made b}' 
boiling tamarinds in milk for about 80 minutes and straining the 
mixture. • 

UNFERMENTED COMMUNION WINE. 

Weigh the grapes, pick from the stems, put in a porcelain ket- 
tle, add a very little water, and cook till the seeds and pulp sepa- 
rate ; press and strain through a thick cloth, return the juice to 
the kettle, and add 3 pounds sugar to every 10 pounds grapes; 
simmer, bottle hot, and seal. This makes one gallon, and is good. 
It is better to add one-third ' water to the wine when it is used. 
This is a very nice wine for delicate persons. 

UNFERMENTED GRAPE WINE. 

Press the juice from the grapes as for jelly, reduce to one-fourth 
its bulk by boiling slowly in an earthen jar; bottle while hot and 
seal. No sugar is required. 

UNFERMENTED WILD GRAPE WINE. 

1 quart grape juice, y 2 pound sugar. 

Scald and skim the juice as for jelly, add sugar in the propor- 
tion given, and boil 5 minutes. Put in self-sealing bottles while 
hot. Or, any bottles may be used that have tight-fitting corks. 
by covering the cork and mouth of the bottle with plaster of Paris. 
Dilute^ if too strong. 



EGGS. 

THERE is no food that contains so large a proportion of nutri- 
ment according to its bulk as eggs ; they are a meal in them- 
selves. Plain boiled, they are wholesome ; and it is asserted on 
French authority that it is easy to dress them in five hundred dif- 
ferent ways, economical and palatable. They contain phosphorus, 
which is brain food, and also sulphur, which performs a variety of 
functions in our physical economy. That they are too expensive 
seems to be the excuse most often given for their non-appearance 
during the greater part of the year; but at twenty-five cents a 
dozen they are cheaper than steak at fifteen cents, or chickens at a 
shilling a pound, and much more healthful during the warm 
weather. 

As a food for children, eggs cannot well be excelled, as they 
contain in a compact form everything necessaiy to the growth of 
the youthful frame. Eggs are not only food but medicine. The 
white is very efficacious in case of burns ; and the oil from the 
yolk is quite a cure for bruises, cuts and scratches. A raw egg, 
if swallowed in time, will effectually detach a fish-bone in the 
throat, and the whites of two eggs are a sure and convenient anti- 
dote for the poison of corrosive sublimate. They strengthen con- 
sumptives and invigorate the feeble. 

Many elaborate inventions for testing the newness of eggs have 
been patented, but to the housewife of experience they are not neces- 
sar}', and one lacking experience may very soon gain it. A piece 
of pasteboard five or six inches square, with a hole in the center, 
about an inch square, held in front of a strong light, is all the ap- 
paratus necessary for the purpose, especially for determining the 
freshness of light-shelled eggs. Place the egg against the hole, 
and look through it; if it is a new-laid egg it will be quite full, 
but after about twenty hours an air-chamber or open space can be 
seen at the larger end, and this gradually enlarges as the egg grows 
older. A bad egg will not only have a large air-space, but the 
contents will be seen to have a mixed appearance towards the cen- 

•248 



EGGS. 24? 

tcr. Get a new-laid egg, and some of different ages, and look at 
them, and one such lesson will be sufficient. A piece of paste- 
Board can be easily obtained, and if a lamp is not at band, the 
snuligbt will answer the purpose nicely, so the thrifty housewife 
need not pay for good eggs and receive poor ones. 

A simpler way to examine them is to put them into a weak 
brine. A heaping tablespoon of salt dissolved in a quart of water 
will make it the right strength. Eggs that are not more than a 
day old will fall to the bottom of this brine ; if more than six days 
old they will float; if very bad they are so buoyant as to ride on 
on the surface of the brine. 

To beat whites of eggs : Use an earthen dish, broader at the 
top than at the bottom, and the bottom deeper in the center than 
at the sides. Break the eggs gently, and allow the whites to fall 
in the basin while the j'olks are kept in the shell. This is done 
by breaking the egg in the middle, opening slowly to let the white 
fall ; if some remains turn the yolk from one half to the other till 
the whole has fallen. Add a very small pinch of salt to prevent 
curdling, beat slowly at first, and increase the speed as the egg 
grows light. It is done when it will not slide on the inclined sur- 
face of the dish. 

There are few wa}*s of preparing eggs that are really difficult, 
but these hints may prove helpful : A little pinch of soda should 
be added to all kinds of custard, and the\- will not whey so easily ; 
if hot milk is called for in a recipe, remember that it must be 
poured over the eggs, instead of stirring the eggs into the milk, or 
they will be found cooked in little strings, or have a curdled ap- 
pearance. This rule is reversed, however, in making soup of milk 
and eggs, when the stringy appearance is desirable. Where fruit is 
called for, be careful not to use too much juice, especially that 
which is stewed or canned. Try custard to determine if done by 
a clean broom straw or a knitting needle ; if it comes out smooth, 
remove the custard from the stove at once. 

A few directions for preserving eggs are given here : Eggs will 
keep in salt or when put down in lime, but are apt to taste strong 
after a time, and the whites become thin and watery. The best 
way is to dip them in a strong solution of gum arabic ; dry them. 



250 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

dip again and dry thoroughly ; then wrap each egg in paper, and 
pack them in bran. Use only fresh eggs, and one will have fresh 
eggs in the winter when wanted. It is some trouble, but like 
many other things requiring time and patience, the end pa} T S for 
the work. 

Eggs may be preserved by rubbing them with a preparation 
made of equal parts of beef suet and mutton tallow melted to- 
gether. It should be soft enough to spread well when applied. 
Be sure that every part of the egg is touched, and when all are 
greased, begin with the ones first treated, wipe them with a cloth, 
roll them in paper, and pack them in bran. A French method is 
to smear them with olive oil in which a little beeswax has been 
melted ; also to paint them over with varnish. 

Another tested way is to pack them firmly in dry sawdust, and 
keep in a cool, dry place. There has always existed a great dif- 
ference of opinion as to which end down eggs should be placed, 
in packing for winter use. W. H. Todd, the well-known Ohio 
breeder of poultry, gives what seems to be a sound reason for 
packing them larger end down. He says: "The air-chamber is 
in the larger end, and if that is placed down the } r olk will not 
break through and touch the shell, and thereby spoil. Another 
thing, if the air-chamber is down, the egg is not as liable to shrink 
away. These are two important "reasons deducted from experi- 
ments, and they materially affect the keeping of eggs. " 

RECIPES FOR COOKING EGGS. 

BAKED EGGS — 1. 

Plain baked eggs make a pretty breakfast dish. Take a deep 
earthen plate, butter it and break in the eggs, adding salt, pepper, 
bits of butter, and bake in a moderate oven. Garnish with curled 
parsley, and serve with buttered toast. 

BAKED EGGS 2. 

8 eggs, 3 tablespoons cream, 

Pepper and salt, Bits of butter. 

Break the eggs into a well-buttered dish, sprinkle with pepper 
and salt, add the butter and cream ; set in the oven and bake until 
the whites are set, or 10 minutes. Serve very hot. Grated cheese 
may be sifted over it. 



EGGS. 251 

EGG BASKETS. 

Boil 6 eggs hard, cut nearly in half and extract the yolks ; rub 
these to a paste with some melted butter, pepper and salt, then set 
aside. Pound the minced meat of cold roast chicken, duck or 
turkey in the same manner, and mix with the egg paste, moisten- 
ing with melted butter, or with a little of the gravy. Cut off a 
slice from the bottom of the hollowed whites of the eggs, to make 
them stand ; fill with the paste, and put them close together upon 
a flat dish. Pour over the gravy left from the roast, heated boil- 
ing hot, and mellowed by a few spoonfuls of cream or rich milk. 
Set into the oven 5 minutes, and serve. 

birds' nests — 1. 
1 ounce fowl or meat, Chopped parsley, 

Yz cup bread crumbs, Powdered thyme and marjoram. 

y 2 pint stock, y 2 lemon, grated rind and juice, 

1 egg, 4 hard-boiled eggs. 

Mince the fowl or meat fine ; add bread crumbs, herbs and lemon 
juice, with the well-beaten egg to bind the mixture. Have the 
eggs warm, take from the shells and cover with the mixture. Fry 
them a light brown. Cut them in halves, and also cut off the end 
of the white, that they may stand on the platter. Have the stock 
hot, and well seasoned ; pour over the eggs and serve. 
birds' nests — 2. 
Boil eggs hard, remove shells, surround with force-meat ; cut in 
halves, fry or bake till nicely browned, and place in the dish with 
gravy. 

BOILED EGGS. 

Eggs cannot be too fresh for boiling, but a new-laid egg requires 
a little longer time in cooking than one three or five days old ; 
to make it particularly nice, slip it into a covered vessel of cold 
water, and when the water boils it will be beautifully cooked, the 
white delicate as a jelly, not tough and hard as when ordinarily 
cooked by putting into boiling water. The nicest way to eat a 
soft-boiled egg is from the shell. Place the small end of the egg 
in an egg cup. The large end should have the shell removed; 
then take away a small piece of the white and there is ample rot mi 
for salt, pepper, and butler, which may be mixed with the egg 
without difficulty. The serving, however, is a mere matter of 



252 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

taste, and many prefer the egg broken into an egg cup or glass. 
Or, send the eggs to the table in a bowl, and pour on boiling water. 
After 5 minutes drain, and cover with more boiling water. Serve 
in 5 minutes. This is a simple and healthy way of boiling eggs, 
and should always be used for invalids and delicate persons. 
Eggs for salads, garnishings, and to be eaten hard, should be 
boiled from 30 to 45 minutes. They are unhealthy otherwise, and 
the 3'olks when mashed will not be mealy or free from lumps. To 
shell them, drop into cold water a few minutes, roll on the table 
Avith the hand, and the shell will peel off easily. If they have 
been allowed to become cold, dip for 1 minute in boiling hot water, 
and proceed in the same manner. 

HARD-BOILED EGGS. 
Ham or dried beef, A little mixed mustard, 

A bit of butter, Hard-boiled eggs. 

Cut the eggs in halves, take out the yolks, mix with the minced 
ham or dried beef, and season with salt and pepper ; add the mus- 
tard and butter. Stuff each half of the egg and stand on a hot 
platter. Serve hot with a Bechamel sauce. 

Sauce. 
14 teacup sifted flour, I pint milk, 

J-2 teaspoon salt, 1 small onion, 

A little black pepper, A little parsley. 

Rub flour and milk smooth, boil slowly, adding salt, onion, pep- 
per and parsle}'. When thick, add butter the size of an egg and 
strain. Thin it with cream if necessary. 

BREADED EGGS. 

Boil 6 eggs hard. When cold, remove the shells, slice them 
lengthwise ; dip each slice in a beaten egg, then in fine bread 
crumbs, and fry in butter or boiling lard. Serve hot. 

EGGS BROUILLE. 

f> eggs, 2 mushrooms, 

'., cup milk or cream, 1 teaspoon salt, 

3 tablespoons butter, A little pepper, 

Nutmeg. 

Cut the mushrooms into dice, fry 1 minute in 1 tablespoon of 

butter ; beat the eggs, salt, pepper and cream together, and put 

into a saucepan. xVdd the butter and mushrooms to these ingre- 



EGGS. 



253 



clients, stir over a moderate beat until the mixture begins to 
thicken, take from the fire and beat rapidly until the eggs become 
thick and cream}-. Have slices of toast on a hot dish. Heap the 
mixture on these and garnish with points of toast. Serve imme- 
diately. 

EGGS A LA CREME. 

Hard boil 12 eggs, and slice in thin rings. Butter well a deep 
baking dish, and fill with alternate layers of bread crumbs and egg 
slices. Sprinkle the layers with salt and pepper, adding bits of 
butter. Let the top layer be of bread crumbs. Cover with sweet 
cream and bake in a moderate oven. 

CURRIED E<!<iS. 
1 pint stock, 1 cup cream, 

1 tablespoon curry powder, "3 onions, 

8 hard-boiled eggs. 

Slice the onions and fry in butter ; add the curry and broth ; 
stew till the onions are tender, then add the cream thickened with 
rice flour and simmer a few minutes. Cut the eggs in halves or 
slices, lay in a deep dish, and pour over them the sauce. Set the 
dish over boiling water till the eggs are hot, and serve. 

DEVILED EGGS. 

12 fresh eggs, ^ teaspoon mustard, 

y 2 teaspoon powdered celery, Butter, size of an egg, 

4 tablespoons vinegar. 

Boil the eggs, take off the shells and cut across in the middle : 
take out the yolks and mix them with the other ingredients ; cut a 
thin slice from the end of the white of the egg, so each cup will 
set firmly on the platter, and fill with the prepared mixture. 
Garnish with celery, lettuce or nasturtium leaves. Serve with thin 
slices of bread and butter. Or, cut the eggs lengthwise in halves, 
take out the yolks, mash fine and beat into them with a fork a 
mayonnaise or other strong salad dressing. Fill and round up 
each white cup with the mixture, and arrange on lettuce or cress 
leaves, serving with cold boiled ham. Tn preparing for picnics Jill 
to the level of the sides, join the halves together, and wrap in 
waxed paper. 



254 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

SCALLOPED EGGS. 
Hard-boiled eggs, Meat broth, 

Minced ham, veal or chicken, Butter sauce. 

Moisten bread crumbs with meat broth and line a buttered dish ; 
slice the hard-boiled eggs and dip in a butter sauce to which a 
well-beaten egg has been added ; put in alternate layers of crumbs, 
with egg and ham, veal or chicken, finishing with dry, sifted bread 
crumbs and bake. Or, mix equal parts minced ham and fine bread 
crumbs, season with salt, pepper and melted butter, adding milk to 
soften ; half fill buttered gem pans or small patty-pans with this 
mixture. Break an egg carefully upon the top of each, dust with 
salt and pepper, sprinkle finely-powdered crackers over all, set in 
the oven and bake 8 minutes. Serve immediately. 

EGG FQNDTJ. 

G tablespoons cream, 1 saltspoon salt, 

4 heaping tablespoon grated cheese, Cayenne, 

1 tablespoon butter, 6 eggs. 

Beat the eggs until light ; add cheese, cream, salt and pepper. 
Melt the butter in a frying pan and when hot pour in the eggs, 
stirring till smooth and thick. Serve this immediately on hot but- 
tered toast. 

EGGS FRICASSEED. 
4 eggs, 1 small onion, 

1 dessertspoon flour, 2 tablespoons gravy, or milk, 

1 small cup cream, 1 large tablespoon butter. 

Boil the eggs hard and lay in cold water. Melt the butter in a 
stewpan and add the onion, finely chopped ; cook till soft. Rub 
the flour and butter to a smooth paste ; add the gravy and stir till 
thick. Cut the eggs into long quarters and lay them gently in the 
gravy, shake the pan around and add cream, with a little sugar and 
nutmeg. Shake the pan again, but do not break the eggs. When 
the sauce is thick and fine, put the eggs on a dish, serve with the 
sauce, and garnish with lemon. 

FRIZZLED EGGS. 

Put a piece of butter the size of a hazel nut in a cup, with a 
pinch of salt and a little pepper. Break in 2 eggs without stirring. 
Cook in a pan of boiling water. When the whites are set, serve 
immediately. 



EGGS 255 

FROTHED BGQS. 

1 lemon, i tablespoon water 

8 eggs, Sugar, 

Salt. 
Mix the juice of the lemon with the water, beat with it the 
whites of 4 and the yolks of 8 eggs, and add sugar and salt. 
Cook carefully in an omelet pan. Have ready i whites of eggs 
whipped with a pound of white sugar to a high froth, flavored with 
vanilla or lemon. Place the omelet on a dish and heap the frothed 
egg over it. Brown it lightly in an oven or before the fire. Cook 
in 5 minutes. Sufficient for four persons. 

EGG GEMS. 

1 cup chopped cold meat, 1 cup bread crumbs, 

1 tablespoon melted butter, Salt and pepper, 

Eggs. 
Mix together the meat and bread crumbs, add the butter, pepper 
and salt, and enough milk to bind it together nicely. Have gem 
pans well greased and fill with the mixture ; break an egg carefully 
on the top of each ; season with salt and pepper, and sprinkle with 
cracker crumbs ; bake S minutes. 

PRIED EGGS. 

Eggs may be fried in ham fat, sweet lard, or clarified butter ; 
the last is preferable. They should never be dropped into the 
grease until it is smoking hot, and too many should not be fried at 
a time. Dip the hot grease over them, instead of trying to turn 
them in the kettle. One waj^ to serve them is to fold the white up 
over the yolk as the egg is cooking, and send them to the table in 
dainty, round balls. Or, cut stale bread into slices an inch in 
thickness and toast it slightly in the oven ; then with a disc cut 
from the center a round piece an inch in diameter, place the slices 
on a plate that has been thickly covered with clarified butter, and 
in the hole in the center of each, carefully break an egg. Season 
and bake. Toast the round pieces taken from the bread a little 
more, dip them quickly into boiling hot water and butter them. 
"When the egg is cooked, put a little piece of butter on it and then 
cover it with a round piece of toast. Or, fry quickly and serve on 
toast, and pour a little tomato sauce over the whole. Fried eggs 
look nicer when served either on toast, slices of ham, or a spoonful 



206 HOC SEKKEPKK COOK Hi >( > k. 

of mashed potato that has been worked with the spoon into a 
little cake. Eggs can be fried in round balls by dropping one at a 
time into boiling lard, first stirring the lard till it turns like a 
whirlpool. Take out with a skimmer. Eggs can be poached in 
boiling water in the same way. 

HAM AND EGGS. 

The ham should be boiled. If boiled, cut slices of the thickness 
desired, and lay, 1 for each egg, in a hot spider ; cook 3 minutes 
on each side, and lay on a hot platter. Break the eggs into a 
saucer ; put into the same pan and fry until the white is set. Add 
butter, if the ham has not sufficient fat to fry the eggs. Lay an 
egg on each slice of ham. If the eggs cook together, separate 
them neatly with a knife. Serve hot. If the ham is raw, take 
off the rind, and if very salt, pour hot water over it, but do not 
let it soak. Wipe dry and fry in a hot spider. Cook thoroughly-, 
2 or 3 times as long as if it had been boiled. Fry eggs as pre- 
viously directed. The ham can be put in the center of the platter 
and the eggs laid in a circle around it. 

EGGS AU LIT. 
2 beaten eggs, Melted butter, 

Parsley, chopped fine, Pepper, 

Breast of cold boiled fowl, minced fine, Salt. 

Warm all in a frying pan, stirring and tossing. When thor- 
oughly heated, ai-range the mixture in a thick layer on an oval dish, 
and place on the mince enough fried eggs to cover it. Dust with 
pepper and salt, and lay some triangular croutons of fried bread 
around the base of the dish. This is also good made of minced 
cold corned beef, or one-half corned beef and one-half cold mashed 
potatoes. 

PICKLED EGGS. 

I pint strong vinegar, Y 2 pint cold water, 

1 teaspoon cinnamon, 1 teaspoon mace. 

1 teaspoon allspice. 

Boil the eggs till very hard and take off the shells ; put the 

spices, tied in a white muslin bag, into the water, boil, and as the 

water wastes away, add enough to leave one-half pint when done ; 

add the vinegar, and pour over the eggs, using as many as the 

mixture will cover. The pickle will do to use another time. Or, 



egos. 257 

after boiling, and removing shells, place in a jar of beet pickles, 
and the white will become red ; cut in halves and serve. 

PICNIC EGGS. 

Boil hard the number of eggs needed ; throw into cold water to 
loosen the shells. Remove these, and cut lengthwise in half. 
Mash the yolks with a teaspoon of French mustard, a tablespoon 
molted butter, and finel}*-minced chicken, veal, lamb, ham or 
tongue, and season with salt and pepper or salad dressing. Rub 
to a smooth paste, fill the whites with this mixture and press the 
halves together. Dip into a well-beaten egg and cracker crumbs, 
and fry to a delicate brown. Or, use without frying. 

POACHED EGGS. 

1 quart boiling water, 1 teaspoon salt, 

1 tablespoon vinegar. 
Break the eggs into a saucer and slide carefully into the water. 
Dash a little water over the egg to keep the top white. Set the 
pan where it will simmer but not boil. Let the eggs remain in it 
for about 10 minutes, when they will be thick and creamy. If the 
water is allowed to boil, the eggs will be tough ; and if it is not 
hot enough the}' will be ragged. More care is really required in 
poaching eggs than in cooking them in any other way ; when well 
poached they are especially suitable for invalids. They are 
usually served on slices of toast, or on daintily toasted crackers. 
They may be poached in milk, and served with a little of the milk 
in individual saucers. 

POTTED EGGS. 
12 hard-boiled eggs, Anchovy sauce, 

2 ounces fresh butter, 2 teaspoons salt, 

1 teaspoon white pepper. 
Pound the yolks of the eggs and mix with the anchovy sauce ; add 
the butter and mix to a paste ; season with salt and pepper. Have 
ready some small pots, chop the whites of eggs very small. As 
the pots are being filled with the paste, strew in the chopped whites 
and cover all with clarified butter. These eggs will not keep long. 

EGG SANDWICHES. 
Hard-boiled eggs, chopped fine, A little minced pickle, 

Mustard, , Vinegar, 

Pepper sauce, Melted butter. 



258 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

Mix ; butter thin slices of bread, spread with the mixture, put 
two slices together, the salad between them, and cut in halves. 
These are nice for picnics and lunches. 

EGGS WITH CELERY SAUCE. 

Make a celery sauce with cream. Poach 6 eggs and lay them 
on rounds of buttered toast in a circle, or oval, on a platter. Pour 
the celery sauce in the center and serve hot. Or, the toast may be 
laid in the center with the celeiy sauce poured over all. 

Celery Sauce. 
1 tablespoon flour, 1 cup cream, 

1 tablespoon butter, 1 teaspoon salt, 

Celery, Pepper. 

Cut the celery into one-half inch lengths, cover with boiling 
water and cook till tender. Strain off the water when ready to 
use. Melt the butter slowly, sprinkle in the flour, stirring care- 
fully. Heat the cream to the boiling point, and stir it gradually 
into the thickened butter. Let it boil 2 minutes, and add the cel- 
ery, with salt and pepper to taste. Cook until the celery begins 
to break. This sauce should be made in a double boiler to pre- 
vent any burning of the cream. 

EGGS WITH CURRY SAUCE. 
6 hard-boiled eggs, 2 eggs, yolks, 

1 teaspoon salt, 4 tablespoons butter, 

1 teaspoon curry powder, 2 tablespoons cooked rice, 

1 teaspoon thick cream. 
Take the shell from the eggs, and cut lengthwise in halves ; mash 
the yolks fine with the butter, salt, curry, cream, and the raw 
yolks. When thoroughly mixed, add the rice with a fork. Fill 
the egg cups with the curry mixture, rounding up well. Smooth 
the surface with a knife dipped in butter, and set the eggs on a 
buttered plate to keep hot. Serve on a bed of mashed potatoes, 
toast, or within a border of rice, with the following sauce : 

Curry Sauce. 
3 sliced mushrooms, Sprig of thyme, 

1 onion, 1 teaspoon curry powder, 

♦ 2 cups thin Bechamel sauce, Butter. 

Chop the onion and fry in butter with thyme and mushrooms. 
When the onion is brown add the curry, fry 2 minutes longer and 



eggs. 25y 

stir in the Bechamel sauce. Boil up, and let simmer 10 minutes 
on the back of the stove. Skim the butter off the surface, strain, 
and pour over the eggs. 

EGGS WITH TOMATO SAUCE. 

Halve 6 hard-boiled eggs, lay on a deep plate, and pour over 
them the tomato sauce. Cover, and place over boiling water 10 
minutes. Or, prepare as for eggs and celery sauce, using tomato 
sauce instead. 

Tomato Sauce. 

3 tomatoes, or K can, 1 onion, chopped fine, 

1 tablespoon butter, 1 teaspoon sugar, 

Salt and pepper. 
Put the tomato into a saucepan with the butter, salt, sugar, pep- 
per, and the onion, delicately fried in butter, and stew 20 minutes. 
Take from the fire and strain through a sieve. Melt 1 tablespoon 
butter, and sprinkle in 1 tablespoon flour; stir together until 
thickened and of a rich golden color ; remove from the fire, stir in 
the sauce, and let boil until rich and thick, when it is ready for 
use. 

EGG SCALLOPS. 

5 eggs, 1 teacup mashed potatoes, 

1 teacup boiled rice, 1 teacup chopped capers, 

1 teaspoon vinegar, 1 teaspoon Worcestershire sauce, 

. Pepper and salt, 1 tablespoon melted butter. 

Boil the eggs 20 minutes and when cold, remove the shells and 
chop up roughly. Mix thoroughly with mashed potatoes and 
boiled rice ; add the other ingredients. Mix well and put into 
scallop shells, gem or muffin pans, sprinkle bread crumbs over the 
top, a few bits of butter, and bake until light brown. 

SCH AMBLED EGGS 1. 

1 teaspoon butter, % C1 ,p lu iik, 

Sa.lt and pepper, . 8 or 10 eggs, 

1 tablespoon minced parsley. 

Put the milk into a saucepan, and when hot stir in the eo^s 

adding the butter, with salt, pepper and parsley. Line a dish with 

crustless toast dipped in hot milk, seasoned with butter and salt 

and pour the eggs over the toast. 



260 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

SCRAMBLED EGGS — 2. 

12 eggs, 1 cup cream, 

Pepper and salt to taste. 

Heat the cream in a saucepan, pour in the eggs, which have 
been broken into a bowl ; place over a slow fire and stir constantly, 
that the eggs may be evenly cooked. Add pepper and salt, and 
serve hot. 

SCRAMBLED EGGS — 3. 

10 tablespoons milk, 10 eggs, 

2 tablespoons butter, Salt and pepper. 

Warm the milk in a saucepan, and add the butter, salt and pep- 
per. When nearly boiling, drop in the eggs, broken one at a 
time ; with a spoon or thin-bladed knife gently cut the eggs and 
scrape from the pan while cooking. Success depends wholl3 r on 
cooking gently and evenly, proportions being of secondaiy import- 
ance. Take from the stove before all has thickened, and continue 
turning up from the bottom of the dish a moment longer ; if served 
in another dish, have it well heated. The mixture should be in 
large flakes of mingled white and 3 T ellow, and as delicate as baked 
custard. Some prefer them scrambled without the milk. 

STEAMED EGGS. 

Butter a deep plate, and pour in the eggs ; salt them, place in a 
steamer over boiling water, and cook until the whites are firm. 
Eggs keep their form better if broken into little tins. Cooked in 
this manner the whites are tender and light and can be eaten by 
invalids. 

STUFFED EGGS 1. 

Hard-boiled eggs, Chopped cold chicken, 

Minced onion or parsley, Soaked bread crumbs, 

Pepper and salt. 

Cut the eggs in halves lengthwise, chop the 3 r olks and mix with 
the chicken and other ingredients. Moisten with grav}' or the un- 
cooked yolk of an egg. Fill the halves level, put them together, 
roll in beaten egg and bread crumbs ; lay in a wire egg basket and 
dip in boiling lard ; when slightly brown, serve with celery or 
tomato sauce. 



EGGS. 2b 1 

STIFFED EGOS 2. 

6 hard-boiled eggs, 2 teaspoons soft butter, 

1 teaspoon cream, 3 drops onion juice, 

Salt and pepper. 
Halve the eggs, take out the yolks, mash fine, and add them to 
the other ingredients ; mix all thoroughly and fill the white cups 
with this mixture ; put them together. There will be a little of 
the filling left, to whieh add 1 well-beaten egg. Cover the eggs 
with this mixture and roll in cracker crumbs. Fry a light brown 
in boiling fat. 

SWISS EGOS. 

Cheese, 1 cup cream or milk, 

G eggs, A little red pepper. 

Line a deep plate with thin slices of cheese; mix thoroughly 
with the cream or milk, wet or dry mustard, and the pepper ; pour 
half the mixture into the dish, then carefully break in the eggs so 
they will keep their shape and pour the rest of the cream over 
them. Bake 8 or 10 minutes, or till they are slightly brown. The 
cheese melts and thickens the milk or cream. 

SCOTCH WOODCOCK. 

2 hard-boiled eggs, 1 tablespoon butter, 

2 teaspoons anchovy sauce. 
Chop the eggs fine ; melt the butter in a saucepan and put in 
the eggs and sauce. Arrange small squares or rounds of toast, 
well buttered, on a plate. Pour over the sauce when dissolved, 
and place for a few minutes over hot water. 

OMELETS. 

Omelet making is easily learned, and there is very little chance 
of failure for one who can work quickly. The whites and yolks 
should always be beaten separately, the whites to a stiff froth, and 
the yolks until foamy. The milk and seasoning should be added 
to the 3'olks, stirred well, the whites beaten in, and the mixture 
cooked immediately. No more eggs should be prepared at a time 
than can be cooked. If there is a large f amily, it is better to cook 
twice. If the omelet is to be fried, the butter in the frying pan or 
spider must be as hot as it can be without burning ; if baked, use 
a well-buttered tin for the purpose and beat it on top of the stove 



262 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

before the mixture is poured in. If the butter burns, the color of 
the omelet will be ding}^ and less appetizing. Pour the mixture 
into the hot pan ; stir it after a minute or two ; slip a knife around 
the edges and shake a little to prevent sticking. It should cook 
gently from Ave to ten minutes. When the edges are set put the pan 
into a hot oven one minute to brown. Now fold ; this is done by 
running the knife under the side of the omelet nearest to the 
handle and turning that part over so as to nearly or quite double 
it ; slide or turn it out on to a hot platter. Garnish, and serve im- 
mediately or it will fall. These things are essential to a good om- 
elet: fresh eggs, a perfectly smooth pan or spider, well greased on 
the bottom and sides with butter, and a fire hot enough to cook the 
center without scorching the outer edges. An omelet should be 
fluffy in the center, and flaky all through. The use of milk makes 
an omelet fluffy and tender. Without it, it is firmer and more 
meaty. 

Omelets take the name of the special article used to flavor them, 
and there is thus a great variet}-. 

PLAIN OMELET. 

5 eggs, 2 tablespoons cream or rich milk, 

1 teaspoon salt, 1 teaspoon flour, 

Pepper. 

If milk is used, add a little butter. This amount will make a 

nice omelet large enough to cook in a pan that fits a No. 9 stove. 
Make according to directions. Or, 

2 tablespoons butter, 1 teaspoon salt, 
1 tablespoon flour, Pepper, 

6 tablespoons milk, 6 eggs. 

Beat salt, pepper and flour into the yolks of eggs ; warm one- 
half of the butter in the milk and stir into the yolks ; add the 
whites, beaten stiff, the last of ail, using the rest of the butter for 
the spider. 

MEAT OR FISH OMELET. 

Use any kind of cold meat, fish, game or poultry; all skin, 
gristle, or objectionable parts must be removed ; chop fine or 
pound soft, adding salt and the desired spices. This can be either 
stirred into the omelet just before cooking, or spread across the 
top before putting it into the oven, or heated in a little cream, and 



EGGS. 263 

laid on previous to folding. Use 1 tablespoon meat to 4 eggs. 
Potted meats can be used to advantage. 

VEGETABLE OMELET. 

All vegetables should be hot and seasoned as for the table, 
chopped fine and stirred into the omelet, or made into a hot puree 
or sauce, and spread over the omelet before folding, or putting 
into the oven. Care must be taken that the omelet does not cook 
too much. 

SWEET OMELETS. 

These are used for breakfasts or plain desserts. Make a plain 
omelet, omit the pepper and add a little sugar to the yolks. 
Spread preserves on half of it just before folding. Sprinkle with 
powdered sugar. Raspberry or plum jam, peach butter, or straw- 
berry preserves are very nice for this purpose. For individual 
omelets, have little pie-tins made with a handle on the side, to 
take them from the oven. When baked, turn each one out on a 
hot plate and serve immediately. Two of these are nice put to- 
gether with fruit or creamed oysters between them. 

ASPARAGUS OMELET. 

1 bunch asparagus, 6 eggs, 

2 tablespoons sweet cream, 1 tablespoon melted butter. 
Boil the asparagus until tender; when cold, cut off the green 

parts and chop fine ; beat the eggs light. Mix all together, season 
with pepper and salt, put the butter in a pan, pour in the mixture, 
and cook like any omelet. Serve hot. 

BAKED OMELET. 

6 eggs, 1 tablespoon butter, 

1 small cup milk, 1 tablespoon flour, 

Pepper and salt, Chopped parsley. 

Warm the butter in the milk, and stir into the yolks beaten 
well with the flour, the salt, pepper and parsley. Beat the whites 
stiff and add last. Pour into a buttered pan and bake in a quick 
oven. 

CHEESE OMELET. 

Plain omelet, (see recipe), 4 tablespoons cream, 

10 tablespoons grated cheese. 
Mix the cheese with the cream and stir it smooth. Take 
recipe for Plain Omelet, add cheese and cream to the yolks, with 



264 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

salt and pepper, then the whites, and finish according to general 
directions. 

HAM OMELET. 

4 eggs, 2 tablespoons flour, 

>2 pint milk, 2 tablespoons grated ham. 

Beat the eggs, milk and flour well, add the grated ham, and fry 
in nice lard or the drippings of roasted ham. Cold boiled minced 
ham in the proportion of 1 tablespoon to 1 egg is as nice. 

OMELET AUX FINES HERBES. 

Plain omelet, (see recipe), 1 tablespoon parsley, 

1 tablespooon sorrel, 1 tablespoon thyme, 

1 tablespoon sweet marjoram. 

Chop the herbs very fine and mix with the yolks of eggs, add 

the beaten whites last, and make according to directions in Plain 

Omelet. This is an old and favorite dish. Prof. Blot omits the 

thyme and sweet majoram and substitutes 1 tablespoon chives, a 

delicate variety of onion. 

OYSTER OMELET. 
12 large oysters. 6 eggs, 

1 tablespoon butter, Salt, 

1 teaspoon chopped parsley. Pepper, 

1 teaspoon flour, y 2 cup cream. 

Beat yolks and whites of eggs separately. Add salt, pepper, 
flour, cream, and parsley and beat till smooth. Melt the butter 
and beat into the mixture. Have a large pan for the omelet, heat 
well and butter. Do not let the butter brown. Beat the whites 
into the mixture and pour into the pan. The oysters ma}' be pre- 
viously fried, and placed across the omelet before folding, after it 
is cooked. Or, cut in halves, or chopped fine, and put into the 
omelet mixture just before cooking. Serve immediately. 

POTATO OMELET. 

Plain omelet, (see recipe), :.' tablespoons butter, 

2 boiled potatoes chopped fine, 1 tablespoon chopped parsley. 
Melt the butter in a spider, and when hot, brown the potatoes 
adding salt, pepper and parsley. Make a plain omelet, and be- 
fore the eggs are set lay over the potatoes. Fold, and serve. 

OMELET SOIKKLE— 1. 
6 eggs, 4 ounces sugar, 

Grated lemon peel, 4 ounces butter. 



EGGS. 265 

Beat sugar and yolks of eggs well together; beat whites to a 
froth and add to the yolks with the grated lemon peel. Put the 
butter into a saucepan, and when melted pour in the mixture. 
Have a moderate fire, and as soon as the omelet begins to harden, 
after its first stirring, set the dish into a hot oven ;j minutes. Take 
out, dust with sugar and serve. 

OMELET SOUFFLE 2. 

5 eggs, whites, % cup sugar, 

2 eggs, yolks, % lemon, juice. 

Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, add the 2 well- 
beaten yolks, sugar and lemon juice. Stir all together very quickly, 
put into a buttered pudding dish, and bake in a hot oven to a 
golden brown. Serve at once. 

SPANISH OMELET. 

5 chopped mushrooms, Pepper and salt, 
1 medium-sized tomato % teaspoon flour, 

1 small onion, 3 tablespoons milk, 

x /i pound bacon, 1 tablespoon butter, 

6 eggs. 

Cut the bacon into dice and fry brown, add the chopped tomato, 
mushrooms, with the onion finely minced, and cook 15 minutes. 
Add salt, pepper, flour and milk to the beaten yolks, then the 
whites well-beaten and mix all smooth. Put the butter into the 
spider; after it is hot, pour in the eggs, and when nearly cooked 
add the tomato mixture ; fold, lay on a hot platter and serve im- 
mediately. 

TOMATO OMELET. 

6 well-berten eggs, 2 tablespoons Hour, 
4 tomatoes, chopped tine. 1 tablespoon butter, 

Pepper and salt. 
Rub flour and butter together and add to the eggs. "Beat in the 
tomatoes, add salt and pepper to taste, and cook like plain omelet. 

OMELET A LA WASHINGTON. 

Make 4 omelets of -1 eggs each. One with apples, one with 
asparagus or sorrel, one with fines herbes, and the fourth a simple 
one. Serve on a dish overlapping each other. These omelets 
were frequently served on the table of Washington when he had a 
grand dinner. 



FISH. 

RECENT investigation is said to prove that the value of Ash, 
as a brain food, has been greatly exaggerated ; however, as 
fish contains little fat, a large quantity of nitrogenous matter, and 
is easily digested it should frequently come to the table. The 
abundance and cheapness of fish, also make it desirable. One of 
the most common objections to a fish dinner is that it is not as at- 
tractive as a meat one, but this may be obviated by care in cooking 
the fish whole, and by taste in garnishing. There are many deli- 
cate ways of serving fish which, with the peculiar kinds of vegeta- 
bles and sauces that accompany them, tempt the most fastidious 
appetite. 

Fish may be divided into two classes as follows : Salt and fresh 
water fish ; of which are red-blooded and white fish, rock and shell 
fish. These kinds ma}- be procured fresh, diy salted, pickled or 
smoked. 

Salmon, mackerel, and blue fish, are oily and rich, and may be 
boiled without losing their nutritive qualities to the same degree as 
dryer leaner fish. Some parts of halibut, as the fins, are very rank 
and oily, and are improved by boiling in more than one water. 
Fish should never be used unless it is perfectly fresh, as some kinds 
are poisonous when even slightly decayed. To ascertain if a fish 
is fresh, press on it with the finger. If the flesh is firm, hard, and 
elastic, it is good; but if the eyes are dull, and sunken, and the 
gills pale, it is unfit for food. 

The flesh of fish will often become soft, even when fresh, by 
keeping it in water or on ice. This should never be done unless 
the fish is frozen ; then it is necessary to thaw it in cold water. 
To keep fish cool and firm after cleaning, dry well, rub with salt, 
and lay on an open wooden rack, such as can be made at home, 
and place in a box or pan over ice, but not touching it ; cover with 

266 



FISH. 

a box or pan to keep in the coolness. 1><> not put tisli into the re- 
frigerator as it will taint the other food, especially milk, cream, 

and butter. Fish out of season will not be good. It is better to 
use something else. 

Of course it is impossible to name all the excellent varieties, as 
they differ with the locality. In the South is the shad, the sheep's 
head, the golden mullet and the Spanish mackerel ; in the North 
the luscious brook trout, and the wonderful and choice tribes that 
people the inland lakes. Among the best of the fresh-water fish, sold 
generally in the markets of the interior, are the Lake Superior trout 
and white fish, and, coming from cold waters, they keep best of all 
fresh-water fish ; the latter is the best, most delicate, and has fewer 
bones, greatly resembling shad. The wall-eyed pike, bass and 
pickerel of the inland lakes are also excellent fish, and are shipped, 
packed in ice, reaching market as fresh as when caught, and are 
sold at moderate prices. Both eastern and California salmon are 
shipped in the same way, and sold fresh in all cities, with fresh cod 
and other choice varieties from the Atlantic coast, but the long 
distance they must be transported makes the price high. The cat- 
fish is the staple Mississippi River fish, and is cooked in various, 
ways. 

Eels must be dressed as soon as possible, or lose their sweetness ; 
cut off the head, skin them, cut them open, and scrape them free 
from every string. They are good except in the hottest summer 
months, the fat ones being best. A fine codfish is thick at the 
back of the neck, and is best in cold weather. In sturgeon, the 
fish should be white, the veins blue, the grain even and the skin 
tender. Sturgeon is often put up and sold for smoked halibut. 
The skin of halibut should be white; if dark it is more likely to 
be sturgeon. Smoked salmon should be firm and dry. Smoked 
white fish and trout are very nice, the former being a favorite in 
whatever way dressed. Select good, firm, whole fish. White 
fish is very nice broiled. Each of the above is better than herring. 

Fish should be dressed as quickly as possible in strong salt and 
water, and, to avoid the necessity of using much water about them, 
wash with a cloth wet in salted water. Wipe dry, and let lie in 
the cooler two hours, if possible. 



268 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

To clean a fish, remove the scales by scraping with a sharp 
knife, or common iron card, from the tail to the head. Lay it on 
a smooth board, and scrape slowly, so as not to scatter the scales. 
Rinse the scraper often in a pan of water. If the fish is to be 
served whole do not remove the head and tail. Split it open from 
the gills half way down the body, and remove the entrails, scrape, 
and clean with a cloth. Be sure to remove all the blood near the 
back bone, and the sound. If the fish needs to be skinned, as do 
suckers, and some others, cut a thin, narrow strip down the back, 
removing the dorsal fin ; cut around the neck, insert the knife, and, 
by aid of thumb and fingers, strip the skin down toward the tail. 
If it needs to be boned after cleaning and skinning, begin at the 
tail, and run the knife up the backbone, scraping it clear of flesh, 
and be careful not to break the flakes. When both sides have 
been scraped clean, slip the knife under the large bone and remove 
carefully ; the small bones must be pulled out separately, leaving 
the flesh in shape on the board. Fish with many bones, as pick- 
erel, shad, herring, etc. , are not boned. 

A boned fish may be rolled up compactly from tail to head, and 
boiled, steamed, or baked. Large fish may be cut crosswise into 
steak. Salt fish should be soaked, at least over night, in clean 
soft water, skin side up ; and most salt and pickled fish are im- 
proved by changing water, and soaking six hours longer. Wash 
all salt fish thoroughly in warm water before soaking. 

All fish for boiling should be wrapped in a cloth kept for the 
purpose, and plunged into boiling water, except salmon, which 
should be put into lukewarm water to preserve the color, and 
mackerel and bluefish, which should be put on in cold water. 
Fish weighing two pounds should be cooked gently about twenty 
minutes after the water actually boils, and six minutes for each ad- 
ditional pound. Do not boil fish rapidly, as it breaks the flakes 
before the inside is done. Many prefer to steam fish, because 
steaming takes less from their nutritive qualities, but it requires 
more time. The juices of a fish are alkaline, therefore lemon, 
vinegar, and many of the sauces are excellent neutralizing agencies, 
and are often added in boiling. If one has not a fish kettle, a 
round of tin, pierced with holes like a colander to fit a kettle, may 



FISH. 269 

be used. Skewer and tie the fish into the required shape. The 
letter S is liked, but the circle is more easily made by inserting 
the tail in the mouth. Lay on the round of tin, and tie all to- 
gether in a square of cheese cloth, or white netting, keeping the 
knot on top. Put into the kettle and boil the required time. A 
strong fork or hook under the knot will lift it out without trouble, 
and the fish may be slipped on the platter without breaking. 

To bake fish, one should have a similar tin to fit the baking pan. 
Put in something to hold it up from the bottom half an inch, and 
cover with thin slices of salt pork ; fill the fish with a dressing 
made as for goose, onl} r a little drier, and sew up. Skewer and 
tie into shape, and lay it on the pork, place slices of pork on the 
fish, and fasten from slipping with small wooden pins. Bake care- 
fully, basting with melted butter, if very dry. When lifted, re- 
move all the pork, put on the platter, and dot with several small 
jumps of butter. Salmon or lake trout, shad, white fish, and 
pickerel are excellent baked. Oysters or white onions may be 
used in the dressing. Slices of lemon may be laid over the fish 
when it comes to the table. 

To broil fish, a good hard coal fire, or the coals of hard wood in 
5 mass is needed, that the fish may not be smoked. One can cut 
ofi the bend and tail of small fish and broil whole. Split in halves a 
ash weighing one pound or less ; cut larger fish in half, and 
divide crosswise to suit the broiler. Oily iish need pepper and 
salt, but dry ones, like white fish, need to be rubbed in olive oil or 
Gutter before broiling. Grease well a double wire broiler with 
pork fat, put in the fish, hold close to the coals, and turn often. 
The tlesh side should be cooked brown. Small fish need to cook 
3ve to ten minutes, and larger fish fifteen to twenty. When the 
fish is very thick, to brown nicely, lay the broiler on a dripping 
pan and put into the oven till cooked through. The flesh will 
easily separate from the bones when it is done. Herrings are 
sometimes wrapped in buttered brown paper and broiled in a pan 
in a hot oven ; care must be taken that both pan and oven are 
really hot. Serve broiled fish with butter and pepper, and acconi- 
oauy with salad dressing and sharp pickles. 

Oily fish should never be fried. Dry fresh Iish may he rolled in 



270 Housekeeper cook book. 

wheat or corn flour, and fried quickly in plenty of hot lard. Take 
out on a large wire receiver, and drain carefully over the pan ; 
add pepper and butter when it comes to the table. Frying in a bit 
of butter or lard is neither broiling nor frying, but partakes of the 
nature of both. Cook until the under side is brown before turning, 
or it will break. Few fish will fry in less than three minutes, and 
a thick fish requires considerably more time. Have fish thoroughly 
dry that the flour in which it is rolled may not become past} r . 

Stewed tomatoes or some acid sauce should be served with fried 
fish. Fish to be steamed should be prepared and served as if for 
boiling. Salt fish may be freshened, and broiled or toasted, and 
served with butter gravy, or simply as a relish, buttered and pep- 
pered. Smoked fish may be broiled or baked in buttered papers. 
Pickled fish may be freshened and boiled, toasted or baked. 
Mackerel and herring should be laid lengthwise of the platter, 
heads and tails alternating. Always garnish the platter, if it be 
with nothing more than a wreath of wild grape vine in summer, or 
leaves from cabbage sprouts in winter, made bright with bits of 
beet pickles, or slices of lemon. Fish is spoiled by waiting, there- 
fore remove all skewers and twine quickly and send to the table on 
hot dishes. One can easily select No. 1 salt mackerel, as it is 
marked by the dresser, at the time of putting up, with one slit 
with a knife at the right of the backbone inside. No. 2 has two 
slits, and if not marked at all they are of an inferior grade. 



FISH IN SEASON. 

Trout, white fish, pickerel, crabs, perch, etc. , are eaten the year 
round. 

Winter: Halibut, cod, haddock, flounders, white fish, smelts. 

September to May : Oysters, clams. 

May to September :■ Salmon. 

November to August: Shad, brook trout, lake trout. 

April to October : Mackerel, eels, lobsters. 

June to October: Blue fish. 



FISH. 271 

GARNISHES. 

Fried smelts niay be used as a garnish. Pin the tails into the 
mouths, and fry quickly. Lay the circles on leaves of lettuce, 
curled parsle}', water-cress, or the blanched leaves of celery. Hard- 
boiled eggs, pickled or siinpty salted, with leaves of parsley and 
nasturtium; pickled olives, with leaves of white and rose celery; 
bits of lemon and mushrooms, with grape leaves or pepper-grass; 
beet or carrot pickles, with lettuce or parsley; the blooms of nas- 
turtium, with the green seeds pickled, and some finely divided 
leaves, as cress, carrot, or parsley; small pickles; slices of red and 
3 r ellow tomatoes and pickled beans, with the bloom- and vine of 
the scarlet runner, make attractive garnishes. 

MISCELLANEOUS. 

The most attractive way to serve a fish salad is on lettuce 
leaves, nicely washed, and arranged around the platter. In the 
middle lay a large, curled leaf, containing a portion of the fish 
with the dressing. In serving, slip the broad knife under and 
hold with the trident. Do not muss the salad in removing to the 
plate. If buttered toast is used, lay the lettuce leaf on the thin 
slice of well-browned, and well-buttered toast ; la}' on the leaf an 
unbroken piece of salmon, or other fish, and add a spoonful of 
dressing. Scalloped dishes should be served with a spoon. 

To carve a baked fish : Place on a platter, with head to the left 
of carver, make incisions on both sides of backbone, the length 
of the fish. Divide down the side, and lay back the part cut, 
clear of the bone. Each part may lie separated the same way. 
Serve a piece of the fish, and the stuffing, leaving the skeleton 
whole on the platter. A sharp, thin, carving knife, spoon, and 
broad silver fish-knife with trident, are necessary for the fish, and 
a ladle for the gravy. Rolled fillets of fish are not divided. 

Place a thick piece of a large fish on the platter, skin side up, 
carve in thick slices, and serve with broad knife and trident, 
Care should be taken not to break the flakes. Lay the meat, as 
well as the vegetables, in smooth masses on the bottom of the 
plate, and not on the edge. Forks are used for fish, oysters, 
pickles, olives, salad, and asparagus. 



272 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

RECIPES FOR COOKING FRESH FISH. 

BAKED PISH. 

Open and clean the fish, removing the head, fins and backbone, 
wash thoroughly, and lay it flat in a greased dripping pan, skin 
side down, and add salt sufficient to season. Half a cup of water 
may be added. Bake till thoroughly done, when the fish will be 
nicely browned. Remove to a platter, spread with butter, pour as 
much thick, sweet cream over it as the platter will hold, set in the 
oven a few moments and serve. 

PISH BAKED IN A CAMP EIRE. 

The fish may be dressed, but it will be quite as nice if baked 
without cleaning, and the work of preparing will be lessened. Be 
sure the fish is dead, roll in several thicknesses of wet paper, folded 
over closely at each end to keep the steam in and the ashes out. 
Have a good hot camp fire, that has burned long enough to accum- 
ulate plenty of ashes; clear away the coals at one side and dig 
open the ashes sufficiently to lav in the fish. Cover well with the 
hot ashes and lay on a few coals. A fish weighing two pounds 
will cook in 20 minutes. Take from the fire and peel off the 
paper, scales, and skin, using a sharp knife and a fork. Remove 
the meat, which separates easily from the bones, season with but- 
ter, salt and pepper, and eat immediately. Fish baked in this 
manner has a delicious flavor. Prairie chickens and partridges 
may be cooked in the same manner and are equally good. 

chowder. 

The best fish for chowder are haddock and striped bass, al- 
though any kind of fresh fish may be used. Cut in pieces over 1 
inch thick and 2 inches square; place 8 good-sized slices of salt 
pork in the bottom of an iron pot and fry till crisp ; remove the 
pork, leaving the fat, chop fine, put in the pot a layer of fish, a 
layer of split crackers, and some of the chopped pork with black 
and red pepper and chopped onions, then another layer of fish, an- 
other of crackers and seasoning, and so on. Cover with water, and 
stew slowly till the fish is perfectly done ; remove from the pot, 
put in the dish in which it is to be served, and keep hot ; thicken 
the grav} r with rolled cracker or flour, boil it up once and pom 



EGGS. 273 

over the chowder. A little catsup and lemon juice may be added 
to the gravy. 

BOILED FRESH COD. 

Put the fish in a fish-kettle, or tie in cloth, in boiling water, with 
some salt and scraped horse-radish, let simmer till done, place a 
folded napkin on a dish, turn the fish upon it, and serve with 
drawn butter, oyster or egg sauce. 

TO FRY EELS. 

Skin them, wash well, season with pepper and salt, roll each 
piece in fine Indian meal and fry in boiling lard ; or egg them, and 
roll in cracker crumbs and fry. For sauce, use melted butter 
sharpened with lemon juice. 

- FRIED FISH. 

Clean thoroughly, cut off the head, and, if large, cut out the 
backbone, and slice the body crosswise into 5 or 6 pieces ; dip in 
Indian meal, wheat flour, or beaten egg and bread crumbs — trout 
and perch should never be dipped in meal — put into a thick-bot- 
tomed skillet, skin side uppermost, with hot lard or drippings, fry 
slowly, and turn when a light brown. The roe and the backbone, 
if previously removed, may be cut up and fried with the other 
pieces. Or, dredge the pieces in the flour, brush with beaten egg, 
roll in bread crumbs, and fry in hot lard or drippings enough to 
completely cover them. If the fat is very hot, the fish will not 
absorb it, and will be delicately cooked. When brown on one side, 
turn over and brown the other, and drain when done. Slices of 
large fish may be cooked in the same way. Serve with tomato 
sauce or slices of lemon. 

BAKED HALIBUT. 

Take a thick slice, suitable for baking, or thinner ones piled one 
on the other with pieces of butter between them. Lay in a baking 
tin with lumps of butter, add pepper and salt and bake in a very 
hot oven 15 minutes. Dredge with a little flour, and pour over a 
pint of boiling water for gravy ; bake till easily pierced with a 
fork. Remove the fish to a platter, add butter and keep hot. 
Thicken the gravy with flour and pour it over the fish. A little 
catsup may be added to the gravy. 



274 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

BAKED PICKEREL. 

Remove the head from a large pickerel, clean and wash thor- 
oughly without cutting open. Make a stuffing as for turkey, using 
milk for moistening, and season only with salt and pepper. Fill 
the fish and sew, or tie white cloth over the openings to retain the 
stuffing. Lay lumps of butter on the fish, or lard it with strips of 
fat salt pork. Put into a long dripping pan with a rack or pieces 
of broken earthen plates under it to keep it from sticking to the 
pan. Add milk, not water, and baste occasionally as it bakes, 
adding more milk if necessary. Bake till well done. The length 
of time will vary with the size of the fish. A pickerel weighing 
from 10 to 15 pounds will require from 2\ to 3^ hours. Remove 
the caps and strings before serving. Serve with cream sauce. 

POTTED FISH. 
5 pounds fish, 1 ounce allspice, 

3 ounces salt, K ounce cloves, 

2 ounces ground pepper, Flour, 

2 ounces cinnamon, Butter, 

Vinegar and water. 
Let the fish lie in salt water for several hours ; cut in slices, and 
place in the jar in which it is to be cooked, a layer of fish, then 
the spices, flour, and bits of butter, repeating till filled. Fill the 
jar with equal parts vinegar and water, cover closely with a cloth 
well floured on top so that no steam can escape, and bake 6 hours. 
Let the fish remain in the jar until cold, cut in slices, and serve for 
tea. 

BOILED SALMON. 

Take 4 pounds salmon steak, tie in a cloth, and lay on a flat tin, 
pierced with holes. Put into lukewarm salted water. Boil slowly 
20 minutes. Remove, and slip out on a hot platter. Garnish 
with curled parsley and pickled olives; serve with Worcestershire 
sauce. 

BROILED SALMON. 

Take steaks from the center of the fish, add pepper, salt, and a 
little butter. Broil over a slow fire till done. Lay on a hot plat- 
ter, add butter, and serve hot with sauce. 

CANNED SALMON. 

The California canned salmon is nice served cold with any of the 



FISH. 275 

fish sauces. For a breakfast dish, it may be heated, seasoned with 
salt and pepper, and served on slices of toast, with milk thickened 
with flour and butter poured over it. 

BAKED SHAD 1. 

Wipe the shad very dry and remove the bones with a small 
knife. Place on a buttered gridiron and broil 5 minutes with the 
inside towards the coals. Kemove it carefully to a buttered tin, 
dredge with flour, add salt and pepper, and pour over it a little 
melted butter. Bake in a moderate oven 20 minutes. Add small 
pieces of butter and serve very hot, with asparagus sauce. 

BAKED SHAD 2. 

Open and clean the fish, and cut off the head ; cut out the back- 
bone from the head to within 2 inches of the tail. Soak stale 
bread in water, squeeze dry ; cut 1 large onion in pieces, fry in 
butter, chop fine, add the bread, 2 ounces of butter, salt, pepper, 
and a little parsley or sage; heat thoroughly, and when taken 
from the fire add the yolks of 2 well-beaten eggs ; stuff the fish, 
and when full, wind it several times with tape ; cover the bottom of 
the baking pan with slices of salt pork, put in the fish, baste 
slightly with butter, and serve, when cooked, with the following 
sauce : 

Sauce : 
2 yolks hard-boiled eggs, 2 tablespoons olive oil, 

Pepper and vinegar to taste, % teaspoon mnstard. 

Reduce the yolks of eggs to a smooth paste, add gradually the 
oil, mustard, pepper and vinegar, beating all thoroughly together. 

BROOK TROUT. 

Wash and drain in a colander a few minutes, split nearly to the 
tail, flour nicely, salt, and put in a buttered pan, which should be 
hot but not burning ; throw in a little salt to prevent sticking, and 
do not turn until brown enough for the table. Butter, and serve. 
Salt pork may be used in frying them. 

TURBOT. 
2 eggs, H pound flour, 

1 pint milk, Onion and parsley, 

K P°und butter, A white fish, 

Pepper and salt. 
Steam the fish till tender, take out the bone and sprinkle with 



276 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

pepper and salt. Heat the milk and thicken with the flour ; when 
cool add the eggs and butter, and season with a very little onion 
and parsley. Fill a baking dish with alternate layers of fish and 
sauce, cover the»top with bread crumbs, and bake half an hour. 

BAKED WHITE FISH OR PICKEREL. 

Clean, rinse, and wipe dry a fish weighing 3 or 4 pounds, rub in- 
side and out with salt and pepper, and fill with a stuffing made 
like that for poultry, but drier ; sew it up, put in a hot pan, with 
some drippings and a lump of butter, dredge with flour, and lay 
over the fish a few thin slices of salt pork or bits of butter, and 
bake 1^- hours, basting occasionally. 

BOILED WHITE PISH. 

Dress the fish nicely, and cover in a fish kettle with boiling 
water, seasoned well with salt; remove the scum as it rises, and 
simmer, allowing from 8 to 10 minutes to every pound ; when 
about half done, add a little vinegar or lemon juice. Take out, 
drain, and dish carefully. Garnish with sprigs of parsley and 
serve with an egg sauce. 

RROILED WHITE PISH. 

Clean, split down the back, and let stand in salted water for 15 
minutes ; wipe dr} 7 , and place on a well-greased gridiron over hot 
coals, sprinkling with salt and pepper. Put flesh side down at 
first, and when nicely browned, turn carefully on the other. Cook 
20 or 30 minutes, or until nicely browned on both sides. 

STEAMED FISH. 

Place the tail of a fish in its mouth and secure it, lay on a plate, 
pour over it a half pint of vinegar, seasoned with pepper and salt ; 
let it stand an hour over ice, pour off the vinegar, and put in a 
steamer over boiling water ; steam 20 minutes, or longer if the fish 
is very large ; when done the meat parts easily from the bone ; 
drain well, and serve on a napkin, garnished with curled parsley. 
Serve with a drawn butter sauce. 

STEWED FISH 1. 

Cut a fish across in slices 1£ inches thick, and sprinkle with 
salt; boil 2 sliced onions until done, pour off the water, season 
with pepper, add 2 teacups hot water, a little parsley, and sim- 
mer the fish in this until thoroughly done. Serve hot. 



FISH. 27% 

STEWEI) PISH — 2. 
% A 4-pound fish, 2 tablespoons flour, 

l / 2 pint cream, Milk to moisten flour, 

y 2 lemon, juice, Small lump butter, 

1 tablespoon chopped onion, Salt and pepper. 

A dry, fresh-water fish may be stewed to an excellent dish. Re- 
move the head, skin, and bones. These may be utilized by put- 
ting them into cold water and boiling for half an hour. Cut the 
fish in convenient pieces ; put into a clean kettle the butter, 
chopped onion, and the water in which the bones have been boiled, 
and let boil 8 minutes. Add the cream, a little pepper, the lemon 
juice, and the flour rubbed smooth in a little milk. Let boil up 
and remove to a covered dish. Serve with stewed tomatoes, and 
potatoes browned in a dripping pan with butte/ and brown stock. 

RECIPES FOR COOKING SALT FISH. 

CODFISH A LA MODE. 

£. 1 cup codfish, picked fine, 1 pint cream, 

2 cups mashed potato, 2 eggs, well beaten, 

% cup butter, Salt and pepper to taste. 

Mix well, bake from 20 to 25 minutes, in the dish in which it is 
to be served. 

BOILED CODFISH. 

Soak over night, put in a pan of cold water, and simmer 2 or 3 
hours. Garnish with slices of hard-boiled eggs, and serve with 
drawn butter. Codfish is also excellent broiled. After soaking 
sufficiently, grease the bars of the gridiron, broil, and serve with 
bits of butter dropped over it. 

CODFISH BALLS. 
Yt pound codfish, 3 large potatoes, 

1 teaspoon butter, 1 well-beaten egg, 

Salt and pepper. 
Wash and pick the fish free from bones ; pare and slice the po- 
tatoes, place in a kettle together, cover with boiling water, and 
boil till the potatoes will mash but not break. Drain off the water 
and let dry a moment, then mash and mince until light and well 
mixed. Add the butter and pepper, and when cool enough, the 
beaten egg. Flour the hands slightly and shape into balls. Just 



278 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

before the meat is to be served, heat some lard until it will brown 
a piece of bread quickly. Drop in a slice of potato, that it may 
not burn, and plunge in the wire basket containing the fish balls. 
Remove them when a golden brown, and serve. 

BREAKFAST CODFISH. 
1 cup codfish, 1 tablespoon butter, 

214 cups milk, 1 level tablespoon flour, 

Salt and pepper to taste. 

Soak the required amount of codfish in cold water 1 hour, or 
over night; pick into small pieces, removing bits of bone, cover 
well with cold water and heat slowly to the boiling point ; drain 
the water off carefully, add 2 cups milk, and -heat slowty. When 
it begins to boil,, add the butter, and the flour stirred smoothly into 
one-half cup milk • let boil up, stir in the beaten egg, and remove 
at once from the fire. Cream may be used instead of milk and 
butter, and is better. 

CODFISH HASH. 

1 pint boiled codfish, 2 pints boiled potato, 

3 tablespoons thick, sweet cream. 

Chop the fish and potato in a wooden tray until fine and thor- 
oughly mixed, add the cream, and heat in a well-buttered spider. 
Serve with tomato catsup. 

SALT COD. 

Boiled salt cod may be cut in large cubes, and served in a deep 
dish, covered with a white cream sauce. 

TONGUES AND SOUNDS. 

Tongues and sounds must be soaked at least 6 hours. Boil 
slowly in just water enough to cover, until the skin starts easily ; 
take out into cool water, and wipe it off with a cloth. Have ready 
a pint of hot milk, in which a tablespoon butter has been dis- 
solved, put in the tongues and sounds, and let them boil up. 
Thicken with a well-beaten egg, or a tablespoon cornstarch smoothed 
in a little milk. 

BAKED SALT MACKEREL. 

Freshen more than for boiling. Grease a dripping pan with 
lard, lay in the mackerel carefully, and bake 5 minutes in a hot 
oven. A No. 1 mackerel will give out oil enough for its own 






FISH SAUCES. 279 

baking. Butter, and serve on a hot platter, garnishing with hard- 
boiled eggs and parslej\ 

BOILED SALT MACKEREL. 

After freshening wrap in a cloth and simmer 15 minutes ; it will 
be almost done as soon as the water reaches the boiling point ; re- 
move, lay on it 2 hard-boiled eggs sliced, pour over it drawn but- 
ter, and trim with parsley leaves. 

NAPES AND PINS. 

Freshen 18 hours, wash thoroughly and tie in a square of 
cheese-cloth. Boil 10 or 15 minutes in fresh water with a table- 
spoon vinegar. Drain, and pull out the bones, if they separate 
readily. Twist into a ring on the platter, and lay slices of lemon 
over it. Garnish with small, sharp pickles, and serve with creamed 
potatoes, and drawn butter sauce. 

FISH SAUCES. 

BUTTER SAUCE. 

2 tablespoons butter, 1 tablespoon flour, 
% teaspoon salt, 1 pint boiling water. 

Place the butter in a small saucepan on the stove. As it melts 
rub the flour into it until smooth and hot, cooking well 1 minute. 
Be sure that the water is boiling, and pour on, stirring all the 
time. When the whole boils up thick, turn into a boat, and serve 
immediately. This may be made richer by adding a well-beaten 
egg- 

BROWN SAUCE. 

Scorch flour by setting in the oven before adding to the butter, 
and make as above. 

EGG SAUCES. 

1 pint cream, 1 teaspoon salt, 

3 eggs, White pepper to taste. 

Heat cream as hot as possible, without burning, add the eggs, 
well beaten, pepper and salt. If too thick, add boiling milk until thin 
enough. Add to any cream sauces, o} r sters, shrimps, lobsters cut 
in one-fourth inch cubes, or salmon cut in cubes, and let boil up 
once, but do not add vinegar or lemon until the time of serving. 



280 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

EGG SAUCE — 1. 

Same as Lobster Sauce, with 4 hard-boiled eggs, chopped, in- 
stead of half the lobster If liked, 2 tablespoons red tomato catsup 
may be added. Parsley may be chopped and added to the above 
sauces to give variety. 

egg sauce — 2. 
1 pint rich milk, 12 capers, 

1 tablespoon flour, 2 eggs, 

2 tablespoons butter, 1 teaspoon celery vinegar, 

Chopped parsley. 
Bring the milk to the boiling point, salt to taste, and add the 
chopped parsley, the butter, little by little, and the flour mixed 
smooth in some cold milk, then the well-beaten eggs. Some prefer 
to serve the sauce separately, but it is nice poured over the fish. 

HORSERADISH SAUCE. 

2 tablespoons grated horseradish 1 egg, yolk, 

2 tablespoons cider vinegar, 1 cup cream, 

1 tablespoon butter, Salt to taste, 

X teaspoon sugar, Water. 

Boil the horseradish 30 minutes in water to cover it, drain, and 
add the vinegar, butter, salt and sugar ; mix thoroughly. Just 
before serving, add the yolk beaten into the cream. Serve with 
oysters or fish. 

LOBSTER SAUCE. 

1 pint lobster, 1)4 pints butter sauce, 

Coral of lobster, if obtainable, X wine glass lemon juice. 

Put the lobster, cut fine, into the hot sauce; boil up, and add 
the lemon juice, after removing from the stove, with a bit of cay- 
enne pepper ; stir quickly, and pour into a sauce boat. 

MUSTARD SAUCE. 

1 tablespoon French mustard, 2 raw eggs, 

1 teaspoon black mustard, dry, 1 tablespoon vinegar 

2 yolks hard-boiled eggs, 1 teaspoon salt, 

1 pint butter sauce. 
Heat the mustard, vinegar and salt with 1 tablespoon water. 
Rub fine the boiled yolks, and add to the mixture, then the raw 
eggs beaten well with the dry mustard ; when the mixture boils, 
add the hot butter sauce slowly, stirring all the time. Serve with 
salmon or bluefish. 



FISH SAUCE. 281 

OYSTER SAUCE 1. 

1 pint oysters, 1 pint butter sauce, 

Celery salt and red pepper to taste. 
Use Butter Sauce made as directed, with the oyster liquor heated 
to boiling point. Add oysters, and boil 1 minute ; then add a lit- 
tle celery salt, and some bits of red pepper, in a bag made of white 
netting. Remove the bag on serving. 

OYSTER SAUCE 2. 

i dozen large oysters, ■ 2 heaping tablespoons butter, 

1 tablespoon flour, X teaspoon lemon juice, 

% cup sweet cream. 
Scald the oysters in their own liquor, and strain ; mix the flour 
with the butter; add the lemon juice and the liquor from the 
oysters, and stir smooth over the fire until as thick as cream. Put 
in the oysters and heat through ; stir in the warm cream, with a 
little grated nutmeg, and serve immediately. 

SHRIMP SAUCE. 

Same as Lobster Sauce, using one-half pint shrimps instead of 
lobster. 

TARTARE SAUCE. 

2 eggs, yolks, 1 gill salad oil, 

1 saltspoon salt, y 2 saltspoon pepper, 

1 tablespoon vinegar, 1 teaspoon mustard, 

1 tablespoon gherkins, Butter. 

Beat together in a small bowl lightly the vinegar and eggs ; add 
to these, drop by drop, the salad oil, taking care to stir the same 
way all the time; then season with the pepper, salt and butter, 
and add the gherkins, finely chopped. Capers may be substituted. 
Serve with boiled salmon, cold fish or lobsters. 

TOMATO SAUCE. 
1 small can tomatoes, 3 whole cloves, 

1 cup boiling water, 3 peppers, 

2 even tablespoons cornstarch, 3 allspice, 

A little onion, cut fine, Butter size large walnut, 

Salt and pepper. 

Boil the tomatoes, water, whole spice and onion, for 10 minutes 

in a porcelain-lined saucepan. Strain, and boil again. Rub the 

cornstarch into the butter, adding salt and pepper, and stir the 

whole into the strained juice in the saucepan. Serve hot. 



282 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

WORCESTERSHIRE SAUCE. 

1 tablespoon vinegar, 1 teaspoon lemon juice, 

1 tablespoon Worcestershire sauce, Butter, % the size of an egg, 
Salt to taste. 

Heat together the vinegar, lemon juice, salt and Worcestershire 
sauce, and add to it the butter browned well in a hot skillet. 
Serve hot. 

SHELL-FISH. 

Clams, crabs, lobsters, oysters, prawns, scollops, shrimps and ter- 
rapin come into this class. Great care should be used in their se- 
lection as their flavor and excellence depend largely upon their 
freshness. 

Fresh clams are heavy and their shells close tightly together. 
Soft-shell clams are good only in cold weather. 

If crabs are fresh, the eyes are bright, the joints of the legs are 
stiff, and the inside has an agreeable smell. The heaviest are the 
best, the light ones being watery. 

The heaviest lobsters are the best. The male is thought to have 
the highest flavor, the flesh is firmer, and the shell has a brighter 
red, and is considered best during the fall and spring ; it may be 
readily distinguished from the female, as the tail is narrower, and 
the two uppermost fins, within the tail, are stiff and hard ; those of 
the female are soft, and the tail broader. The latter are prepared 
for sauces on account of their coral, and are preferred during the 
summer, especially in June and July. The head is used in gar- 
nishing, by twisting off after the lobster has been boiled and be- 
come cold. 

Oysters if alive and healthy close tight upon the knife. 

Scollops are not much used ; when fresh the shell closes tight. 

Terrapins are always sold alive, and are in season from Novem- 
ber to March. Diamond backs are expensive, but are the finest, 
though the male is of small size and inferior quality. 

Fresh-water terrapins are quite good though lower priced. 



fish. 283 

CLAMS. 

Fresh clams are heavy and their shells close tightly. To pre- 
pare clams for boiling place a peck of fresh clams in a bushel 
basket, sift well among them a pint of yellow corn meal, and cover 
the basket for the night. The next day dash over them a pail of 
clear cold water, give them another pint of meal and let stand an- 
other day. They will then be in fine condition for boiling, the 
feeding having very much improved them. Now place 2 quarts 
of boiling water in a kettle, wash the clams well and pour them 
into it. Let boil smartly until the shells are well open ; remove to 
a large pan, and when cool enough, take off half the shell and 
serve on the other half, with a little salt. This boiling is neces- 
sary in preparing clams for cooking in any way. A pair of sharp 
scissors are indispensable in removing the black heads, as should 
always be done in preparing them for stews, soups, scallops and 
chowders. 

- SEASIDE CLAM BAKE. 

Have a level floor of stones for an oven, and pile on it seaweed 
and burn, adding as it burns out, until the stones will crackle when 
water is sprinkled upon them. Sweep off the ashes, and spread 
on a thin layer of seaweed. Have the clams well rinsed in salt 
water. Pile them on the hot stones, making them low in the center, 
and a ridge around, sloping off to the edges of the rock. Lay 
into the depression thus made halves of chicken, well dressed, ears 
of green corn, potatoes, which have been thoroughly cleaned with 
seaweed or a rough cloth, and a nice bluefish or pickerel ; in fact, 
almost any young, tender meat, fish, or vegetable, is delicious 
cooked in the steam of the clams. Cover the whole thickly with 
seaweed, and over this throw' a great piece of canvas to keep in 
the steam. When the shells of the clams in the ridge are thor- 
oughly open, which will be in about 45 minutes, the whole will be 
done. Have ready melted butter, salt, vinegar, pepper, and brown 
bread, to serve with this bake. One never gets to the dessert. 



284 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

CLAM CHOWDER. 

1 pint thick, sweet cream, Clams, 

14 cup milk, Potatoes, 

1 tablespoon flour, Salt and pepper, 

1 quart toasted crackers, Slices of fat, salt pork, 

Boiling water. 
Fry the pork until the fat is nearly out of it. Remove the 
scraps and pour the fat into a kettle having a second bottom, if 
possible, as a chowder is very likely to burn. Lay in the potatoes, 
sliced thin, and the clams, from which the heads have been re- 
moved, in alternate layers, until the kettle is half full. Pepper 
and salt slightly between the layers. Add, if liked, a few slices of 
onion with the potato. Pour on boiling water until it comes 
nearly to the top of the layers. Watch carefully that it does not 
burn. When it has boiled 40 minutes, pour in the cream and let 
boil up. Add the milk and flour rubbed smooth, and let come to 
a boil again. Have ready squares of toasted cracker, and take the 
chowder out on them. Serve with sharp pickles. 

FRIED CLAMS. 

Remove from the shell large soft-shelled clams; beat an egg 
well, and add 2 tablespoons water; have the clams dried in a 
towel, and dip them first in the egg, then in cracker or bread 
crumbs, and fry, longer than oysters, in sweet lard or butter. 
Oysters may be prepared for cooking in the same way. 

SCALLOPED CLAMS. 

Remove the heads, and prepare the same as scalloped oysters. 

CLAM STEW. 

Remove the heads, and prepare the same as in oyster stew. 

CRABS. 

The livelier they are, the better, and they must be living when 
thrown into boiling water. They must be used soon after cooking, 
and in summer they will not keep more than thirty-six hours. 

BOILED SOFT-SHELL CRABS. 

Cook immediately after being caught. Plunge head first into 
boiling water, and cook 15 or 20 minutes. Remove outside shells 
and shaggy substance. Serve hot from the shells. 



FISH. 285 

PRIED SOFT-SHELL CRABS. 

Pull off sand-bags and shaggy substance from beneath the shells, 
wash, and dry in a cloth. Roll in cracker crumbs and egg alter- 
nately, sprinkle with pepper and salt, and fry in very hot lard. 

LOBSTER. 

Select a live, heavy lobster. If the tail springs back quickly, it 
is fresh. Lobsters with hard, solid shells, having some black 
upon them, are the best. A medium-sized lobster needs to boil 
twenty minutes, or until its shell is bright red. 

TO BOIL A GREEN LOBSTER. 

Have over the fire a large pot of boiling water, throw in a hand- 
ful of salt, plunge the lobster in head first, and boil until done. 
Take it out, and as soon as it can be handled, break off the claws 
and tail, and remove the soft fins, which lie close to the body, 
where it joins the legs. Use an ordinary can-opener to aid in re- 
moving the shell. "When the flesh is reached, the green fat, coral, 
and white curd are to be saved separately. The meat is all good 
except the stomach, which should be left in the shell, and the soft 
gills ought to be removed before taking out the meat. A pair of 
oyster scissors may be used to advantage in removing the meat 
from the claws and tail. Never pound them in the middle to 
break the shell, as it crushes the meat, which looks nicer if kept 
whole. Many serve the meat as taken from the shell, garnishing 
with the coral, and leaves of cress. Lobster is rich and indigesti- 
ble, and should be eaten with salt, pepper, and vinegar, or red 
pepper, with some hot sauce, as Chili sauce, or catsup, hot with 
peppers. In cooking lobster, cook just enough to heat it up well, 
as longer cooking hardens it. 

LOBSTER CHOWDER. 

Put the lobster in a stewpan, with butter, pepper, cream, and a 
little milk. The liquid should be enough to cover the meat. 
When at the boiling point, stir in quickly a well-beaten egg, and 
serve hot on toasted squares of cracker. 

CREAMED LOBSTER. 

A cream sauce ma}' be made as for fish. Cut the lobster fine 
and heat in the sauce, a pint of meat to the same measure of 



286 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

sauce. Season with lemon, and serve on toast. Garnish with let- 
tuce leaves and slices of lemon. 

DEVILED LOBSTER. 

1 lobster, 1 tablespoon mustard, 

Yz cup vinegar and water, 1 tablespoon French mustard, 

2 eggs, yolks, % teaspoon cayenne pepper, 
2 hard-boiled eggs, yolks, Pepper and salt. < 

Chop the meat of the lobster fine, and acid the green fat and 
coral. Boil the vinegar and water, add the mustard, French mus- 
tard, a little pepper and salt, and the cayenne pepper. Thicken 
this with the creamed 3 r olks of the hard-boiled eggs, beaten with 
the yolks of the raw ones. When like cream, mix with the chopped 
meat, and place in a mould. To be used for sandwiches or as a 
relish. 

LOBSTER SALAD. 
2 eggs, yolks, 2 tablespoons vinegar, 

2 hard-boiled eggs, yolks, 2 tablespoons French mustard, 

4 tablespoons salad oil, Salt and cayenne pepper, 

Lobster. 
Use canned lobster, or the claws and body of one freshly boiled. 
Cut it up in small pieces. Mash the coral with the yolks of the 
hard-boiled eggs, season with salt and cayenne pepper, and add 
the French mustard. Make a dressing of the beaten yolks of the 
raw eggs stirred thick with the salad oil and vinegar. Pour this 
over the mixed meat and coral, and serve on lettuce leaves. 

SCALLOPED LOBSTER. 

Prepare the lobster as for salad. Put into a baking pan a layer 
of the prepared meat and cream sauce, and a layer of fine cracker 
crambs, and repeat. Moisten the whole with melted butter, and 
bake until the top is brown. If the crackers are first toasted, and 
then crumbled, it will be nicer. Some bake and serve in the 
shells, putting the tail ends on in fanciful shape. Garnish with 
hard-boiled egg and parsley. 

LOBSTER SOUP 1. 

1 quart milk, Lobster, 

2 tablespoons flour, Water, 

1 tablespoon butter, Salt and pepper, 

1 fresh, or l pounds canned lobster. 
Cut the meat into small pieces. If the lobster is fresh, boil the 



FISH. 287 

bones and hard pieces, with cold water enough to cover, 20 min- 
utes ; strain off, and add the water to the milk, which has been 
boiled and thickened with the butter and flour rubbed together. 
Add the meat, and enough of the coral, previously dried in the 
oven on a piece of paper, to make a fine color; let boil up, add 
salt and pepper, and serve immediately with toasted crackers. A 
bunch of peppergrass or parsley may be boiled in it a moment and 
removed. A beef stock may be used with the milk if the lobster 
is canned. 

LOBSTER SOUP 2. 

1 pound canned lobster, 1 pint boiling milk, 

1 pint cream, Pepper and salt. 

Simmer the lobster meat gently in the cream, and add the boil- 
ing milk. Season with pepper and salt, and serve with crackers 
toasted brown, and slices of lemon, or sharp mixed pickles. 

SHRIMPS AND PRAWNS. 

Boil as a lobster. Remove heads and shell. Eat the part that 
looks like the tail of the lobster. They are fried, scalloped, or 
warmed up with fish sauces as lobster. 

OYSTERS. 

Oysters need to be very fresh to be good. To add water or ice 
ruins them, and, if kept in a wooden keg, be very careful that the 
keg is of a wood that will not give them a peculiar taste. It is 
better to keep them in a stone or tin dish, among ice, at the freez- 
ing point, rather than frozen. Small-shelled oysters have the 
finest flavor. Fresh oysters may be kept in a cool cellar if an oc- 
casional pail of salt water be dashed over them. Oysters are 
fresh if the shells are firmly closed. They may be fed as clams. 
Never salt o}*sters until just before serving, as it makes them hard. 
Canned oysters should not be used if the can is bulged, or if the 
end has been pierced and soldered. Canned oysters should not 
be cooked, but quickly heated through in the boiling liquor and 
milk. 

BROILED OYSTERS. 

0}*sters can be broiled on a wire broiler over a quick fire ; dry 
them well and roll them in cracker dust which has been seasoned 



288 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

with salt; serve on a hot platter with one-half teaspoon melted 
butter on each. Broiled oysters are very nice served on toast, 
two or three large ones on each slice. 

BROILED OYSTERS ON THE HALF-SHELL. 

Select large shells, clean with a brush, open, saving juice; put 
the oysters in boiling water a few minutes, remove and place each 
oyster in a half-shell, with juice ; place on a gridiron over a brisk 
fire, and when they begin to boil season with butter, salt and pep- 
per, and a drop of lemon juice. Serve on the half -shell. 

CANNED OYSTERS. 

Fill glass cans, such as are used for fruit, with oysters in their 
liquor. Place in a boiler of lukewarm water up to the shoulder, 
putting a thick cloth, hay, or paper on the bottom of the boiler. 
Bring the water to a boil, and let them remain until the oyster 
liquor is at the boiling point. Put on the rubbers and tops, re- 
move the boiler from the fire, and take out the cans as soon as 
possible. These are to be preferred to the canned oysters of com- 
merce. 

OYSTERS A LA CREME. 

1 quart oysters, 2 tablespoons flour, 

1)4 pints cream. 

Put the oysters in a double kettle ; cook until they begin to curl 

at the edges ; pour out in a colander, put the cream in the kettle ; 

when it boils up, add the flour wet with cold milk, and the oysters, 

but not the liquor, and cook 2 minutes. Serve on toast. 

FRICASSEED OYSTERS. 
1 quart oysters, 1 tablespoon cornstarch, 

% pint veal or chicken broth, 1 egg, 

* % CU P niilk, 1 small onion, 

1 ounce butter, 1 slice of bam, not smoked, 

Parsley, Sweet marjoram. 

Soak the ham in boiling water half an hour, cut in small slices 
and place in a saucepan with the broth, the liquor from the oysters, 
the onion, minced very fine, and a little chopped parsley, sweet 
marjoram and pepper. Let these simmer 20 minutes, and boil 
rapidly for 2 or 3 moments. Skim well and add the cornstarch 
mixed smoothly in the milk. Stir constantly, and when boiling 
add the oysters and butter, let come to a boil, remove the oysters 



fish. 289 

to a deep dish, beat the egg and add to it gradually some of the 
hot broth, and when cooked stir it into the mixture. Season with 
salt and pepper and pour over the oj'sters. The juice of a lemon 
may be added. 

FRIED OYSTERS — 1. 

2 dozen large oysters, 1 pound clarified fat, 

1 teaspoon salt, Cracker crumbs, 

Eggs. 
Drain off the liquor from the 03'sters ; prepare cracker dust by 
rolling crackers very fine, and mix the salt with it. Roll the 
oysters one at a time in the cracker, and lay in rows on a board or 
platter. Let remain 1 5 minutes and dip in the beaten eggs, then roll 
them again in the cracker dust, beginning with those that were 
rolled first. Let stand 30 or 45 minutes. It is important to follow 
the same order in each operation, to give the liquor of the oyster time 
to drain out and be absorbed by the cracker dust. Now heat the lard 
in a frying pan ; when the blue smoke arises, drop into it a peeled po- 
tato or piece of hard bread, which prevents the fat growing hotter, 
drop in the oysters lightly, and when a light brown turn them ; re- 
move to a colander to drain a moment, or lay upon a piece of 
brown paper. The time for cooking is about 3 minutes. Serve 
while hot on a hot platter. Fried oysters, to be at their best, must 
be eaten as soon as cooked ; and when a second supply is likely to 
be needed, it should be cooked while the first is being served and 
eaten. It is better not to touch the oysters with the hand, as it 
tends to make them tough ; all the rolling and clipping may be 
done with a fork, without mangling the oyster. 

PRIED OYSTERS 2. 

2 eggs, or ) Cracker crumbs, 

3 eggs, yolks, \ Salt, 

3 tablespoons cream, Butter or lard, 

Oysters. 
Drain the oysters through a colander, and lay each by it- 
self on a cloth, covering with a cloth to absorb the moisture. 
Beat the eggs, add the cream, and mix thoroughly. Season the 
crumbs with salt, dip each oyster in the egg and crumbs, and lay 
upon a board. If any are not well covered, dip them again into 
the egg and crumbs. Have ready two spiders in which is plenty 



290 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

of hot butter, or butter and lard. Lay the oysters in the spider 
and cook over a steady fire. When cooked on both sides remove 
to a hot platter. 

PANNED OYSTERS. 

Cut stale bread in thin slices, removing all crust, and make 
them to fit patty-pans; toast them, butter, and place in pans. 
Moisten each with 3 or 4 teaspoons oyster liquor; cover with 
oysters, sprinkle with pepper, and add a small piece of butter ; 
place the pans in a baking pan and put in the oven, covering to 
keep in the steam and flavor ; have a quick oven, cook 7 or 8 min- 
utes, until ruffled, remove the cover and sprinkle with salt ; replace 
the cover and cook 1 minute longer. Serve in the patty-pans. 

OYSTER PIE. 

Line a deep earthen dish with pie crust and bake ; drain a can 
of oysters through a colander, look over the oysters and lay them 
in the crust, add salt, one-third cup butter cut in small pieces, and 
1 tablespoon strained liquor ; cover with cracker crumbs. Add a 
top crust and bake. 

PICKLED OYSTERS. 
% pint vinegar, 1 teaspoon salt, 

2 dozen cloves, 1 teaspoon black pepper, 

1 pod red pepper, broken in bits, 2 blades mace, 

Oysters. 
To every quart of oyster liquor add vinegar, salt and spices in 
the proportions given. Add the oysters, simmer gently for a few 
minutes, take out and put in small jars ; then boil the pickle, 
skim, pour it over them, and seal. Keep in a dark, cool place, 
and when a jar is opened, use its contents as quickly as possible. 
Oysters pickled thus will keep good 4 or 5 weeks. 

RAW OYSTERS. 

Wash the shells, open, and remove the flat shell; loosen the 
cyster, but leave in the deep shell, and serve a half dozen on a 
plate, with a quarter of lemon in the center. Eat with salt, pep- 
per, and lemon juice or vinegar. Or, make a hollow in a block of 
ice with a hot flatiron. Drain the oysters, and add salt and pepper 
before putting them on the ice. Set in a place so cold that the 
ice will not melt. Before serving, place the ice on a napkin on a 
platter, and decorate with lemon. A simpler way is to drain well, 



FISH. 291 

sprinkle with salt and pepper, and place the dish on ice for half an 
hour before serving, adding bits of ice. Serve with horseradish, 
Chili sauce, slices of lemon, or simply vinegar. Another way is to 
set a little china barrel before each guest which contains a dozen 
large oysters. Large barrels containing two or three dozen should 
stand on the sideboard. Serve lemons, quartered, in a handsome 
dish, garnished with parsley. Place oyster forks at every cover, 
with shells of cayenne, flagons of vinegar, and plates of brown 
bread and butter at intervals on the table. 

ROAST OYSTERS. 

Wash the shells, dry, and put on a bed of hot coals or a range. 
When done, they will open a little. Remove the upper shell and 
serve the oyster in the lower one. Season with salt, and a little 
butter. Or, remove the upper shell, add salt, pepper and butter to 
each, place in a pan in a hot oven, and bake 8 minutes. Serve 
at once. 

SCALLOPED OYSTERS. 

Small oj^sters are preferred. Roll crackers or dry bread ; but- 
ter a deep earthen dish and fill with alternate la3'ers of crumbs and 
ojsters having the bottom and top layers of the crumbs. Moisten 
each layer with oyster liquor, add small pieces of butter and season 
with salt and pepper. Beat 1 egg, add nearly a cup of milk, and 
pour over all. Allow 10 minutes to heat through, and bake 45 
minutes. 

OYSTER STEW — 1. 

2 quarts oysters, 1 cup boiling water, 

1 quart boiling milk, 2 tablespoons butter, 

Salt and pepper. 
Strain the liquor from the oysters, place in a soup kettle with 
the boiling water; when at boiling point, add salt, pepper and 
o} T sters. Let boil until the edges curl, add the butter, the boiling 
milk, and take from the fire. Serve at once with crackers. 

OYSTER STEW 2. 

3 pints oysters, ( 1 pint thick, sweet cream, or 

2 quarts rich milk, ( Butter size of an egg, 

Salt and pepper. 
Place the milk, with the cream or butter, in a stew kettle with 
the liquor from the oysters. Let boil up, add the oysters and boil 



292 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

1 minute. Remove, and add salt and pepper to taste. Serve im- 
mediately with crackers and mixed pickles. If a thicker stew is 
liked, add 3 well-powdered crackers to the boiling milk before the 
oysters are put in, and stir quickly for 2 minutes. Be sure the 
mixture boils when the oysters are added. 

TERRAPIN. 

Terrapin can be kept alive through the winter in a cool place 
where they will not freeze. Feed occasionally with sliced vege- 
tables or parings. Boil as other turtle, or rapidly for fifteen min- 
utes. Remove and wash in warm water, taking off the black out- 
side skin from the shells, and the nails from the claws. Put into 
clean, fresh water, and boil until the under shell cracks. Open 
carefully, saving the gravy. Take off the under shell in a way to 
prevent breaking the gall, which would spoil the whole. Remove 
the liver with the gall, and then carefully cut off the gall bag, and 
any part of the liver that may have become discolored by it. Put 
the upper shells on again, and boil until tender. Remove the in- 
testines and the sand bag, and the meat is ready for use. Terra- 
pin should be soaked in strong salt and water for an hour or more 
before boiling. Many prepare other turtle in the same way, and 
consider them nicer for the additional boiling. Use the gravy 
that escaped from the shell when the under part was removed, in 
which to heat up the meat. Add butter, pepper, and a pint of 
thick cream, boil up, and thicken with two well-beaten eggs. Add 
the juice of two lemons to a terrapin if liked. 

BOILED TURTLE. 

1 turtle, 2 eggs, 

1 pint cream, 1 hard-boiled egg, 

1 cup water, Butter, 
Salt and pepper. 

Plunge the turtle head first into boiling water, to which a hand- 
ful of salt has been added. Boil until the feet skin easily. Take 
off the feet, and remove the skin and nails. Take off the under 
shell, and remove the liver and gall, taking care not to break them. 
Remove any part that may not be with the clear four quarters, as 
sand, or parts of the stomach. The different parts may be served 



FISH. 203 

alone, or it may all be removed to a stewpan, and cooked 20 min- 
utes with butter, pepper, salt, cream, and the water. When nearly 
done, beat the hard-boiled egg with the raw ones, and add slowly. 

TURTLE SOUP. 
1 turtle, 2 eggs, 

1 quart beef stock, 3 hard-boiled eggs, 

% pint cream, 2 tablespoons butter, 

% pint milk, 2 tablespoons flour. 

Use green turtle or the canned meat. Cut the green fat into 
squares and set on ice ; cut the rest of the meat into small pieces. 
Put the stock, cream and milk over the fire together, and let boil 
up, add the meat, and let simmer; stir in the flour and butter, 
which have been rubbed together till smooth. Make egg balls of 
the hard-boiled eggs wet up w.ith the yolks of the raw ones. 
Place these with the green fat in the tureen and pour over the 
soup. Serve with lemons and stewed tomatoes. 



FRUITS. 

THE value of fruits as food is far from being understood. 
They are more or less abundant in every part of the world, 
and nourish and refresh those who are wise enough to include them 
among the necessaries of life. 

Nature has provided under a variety of forms and coverings the 
sweets and acids, flavors and oils, essential to the sustenance of 
every portion of the body. First in importance and universality 
is the apple, and the grape follows; these have been called the 
king and queen of fruits. It has Jbeen quaintly phrased that ' ' in 
that case the berries might be members of the royal family, 
peaches, pears, and plums, members of the cabinet, and tropical 
fruits, the foreign ministers. " Fruits are first cousins to grains, 
and science has demonstrated that together they constitute a food 
which produces a well-developed, strong-limbed and clear-brained 
people. 

The athletes of ancient Greece were trained entirely on a vege- 
table diet. The boatmen of Constantinople, who live on bread, 
cherries, figs, dates, and other fruits, have a wonderful muscular 
development. The children of the desert exist for a long time 
upon a handful of dates a day, and travelers speak of raisins and 
parched corn as common fare. 

If this were a medical article many authorities might be cited 
whose study and experience prove ' ' that there is scarcely a dis- 
ease to which the human family is now heir, but the sufferings 
therefrom would be greatly relieved or entirely prevented by the 
use of fruits which are now so generally forbidden" or neglected. 
Particularly do the nervous American people need all that nature 
can give in this line to supply the waste of the system, and rein- 
force the vitality. 

During the last ten years there has been a most gratifying in- 
crease in the use of fruit, and the supply has multiplied and im- 

294 



FRUIT. 295 

proved to meet the demand. Fruits are to be highly prized, 
whether fresh or dried, cooked or raw, as food or in beverages, and 
ought to constitute a large part of the daily fare. Wives and 
mothers are learning that a farinaceous and fruit diet is not only 
desirable for the children, but is one of nature's agencies to pro- 
vide a sound body and a sound mind, and aid in the formation of 
temperate desires and habits. 

Taste, and often genius is shown in the arrangement of fruit for 
the table. All varieties are appropriate breakfast dishes, and the 
season determines largely what can be used. Fruits should be 
carefully selected. Melons should be kept on ice, so as to be 
thoroughly chilled when served. Nutmeg melons should be cut in 
the grooves, and have the seeds removed before serving. Water- 
melons should either be cut across the middle and served in the 
rind in sections, or have the heart removed and brought in on 
the plates. Apples should be perfectly ripe and pared before eat- 
ing. From among the man}* varieties some can be found suited to 
almost every month of the year. Sweet apples are particularly 
nice baked and served with sweet cream. ' ' Bananas are destined 
to be the fruit of the future, " says one importer, and no other fruit 
possesses such a large amount of nutriment. The increase of the 
excellency, and the cheapness of grapes, as well as their abundance 
in every part of the country, put them within reach of all. The 
imported varieties flourish luxuriantly in California, while the fine- 
ness of her raisins is giving her the precedence over the foreign 
trade. See that grapes are washed and drained well before serv- 
ing. Oranges are to the southern and tropical lands what the 
apple is to the temperate zone, but the facilities of transportation 
give each section the benefit of all. Our own country now rivals 
foreign ones in the cultivation of oranges, while California and 
Florida vie with each other to produce the finest variety. The 
sourer oranges of the market come from Valencia. The simplest 
of many ways to eat an orange is to cut a slice from the top and 
eat the juice and pulp with a spoon. Medical experts claim that a 
sour orange eaten daily before breakfast produces usually a condi- 
tion of almost perfect health. Peaches are not only a delicious 
fruit for food, but beautiful for table decoration. Apricots and 



296 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

nectarines increase the variety with a delicate though peculiar 
flavor. Pears are more highly prized each year, and, combined 
with peaches, plums, and grapes, present a dish delightful to the 
eye, as well as grateful to the palate. The red or strawberry pine- 
apple is greatly inferior to the white one, though suggesting its de- 
licious flavor. The sugar loaf, one of the sweetest and best pines, 
comes from Havana, while some choice varieties are produced in . 
Jamaica. They should either be grated, or picked with a fork 
from the hard core, and sprinkled with sugar a little time before 
serving. Buy cocoanuts cautiously in summer, as the milk is 
quickly soured by the heat. Of almonds the Princess is the best 
variety to buy in the shell ; of the shelled, the Jordan is the finest, 
though the Sicily is good. For cake or confectionery, the shelled 
are most economical. 

Many small fruits are used as long as the season allows. The 
fresh strawberry, raspberry and blackberry are in great demand on 
the table ; their fine flavor is lost in some measure by cooking. 
The white currant is a favorite for the table, and the red more 
commonly used in cooking. Red and white currants mixed form 
a pleasing dish. If berries are clean do not wash, but pick them 
over carefully. If they need to be washed, put into a sieve or 
colander and set in a large pan of water, allowing the water to flow 
around each berry. Drain quickly, and avoid mashing. 

CANNED FRUIT. 

"If anything is worth doing at all, it is worth doing well," 
finds a good illustration here, for poor work means either spoiled 
or injured fruit. Select perfect fruit, just ripe, fresh picked, and 
cook with very little sugar. Small fruits should *be picked early 
in the morning, and canned immediately, if possible. Use a silver 
knife in preparing large fruits, and drop them into cold water to 
prevent change of color. All fruit should be carefully picked 
over, and cooked slowly in a porcelain or granite-lined kettle with 
a very little water and sugar. The sugar can be omitted without 
detriment to the fruit. It must boil to prevent fermentation, but 
not rapidly, or it will lose its flavor and its form. 

The cans should be of glass, free from flaws and blisters, with a 



FRUIT. 297 

tightly-fitting porcelain-lined cover. The rubbers should be fitted, 
washed in warm, not hot water, and if any are hard or stretched, 
reject them. They can be replaced from any rubber, crockery or 
ordinary grocery store for a trifle. Use pint jars for small fam- 
ilies. See that the jars are washed, sweet, and the covers fitted be- 
fore beginning to work. . 

While the fruit is cooking, thoroughly scald the cans and have 
them ready in a pan of hot water. When ready to fill, set one at a 
time on a hot plate, that if the juice is spilled it maj^ be saved. It 
is better to prepare only two or three cans of fruit at once, as one 
is apt to get tired and not do the work well. Attend to only one 
can at a time. Fill level full, let settle a moment, and fill up 
again. Wipe off the neck of the jar, put on the rubber, fill up 
with hot syrup, if the fruit has settled more, and screw on the 
cover as tightly as possible, holding the jar with a damp towel. 
One object of excluding the air is to keep out germs which would 
cause the fruit to spoil. Boiling kills these and that is the reason 
for sealing at the boiling point. This is the whole secret of per- 
fect canning. As the fruit cools, it will shrink and leave a 
vacuum. 

If there is plenty of time, can fruit in the following manner : 
Fill the jars with the fresh fruit, put on the covers loosely, and set 
upon a rack, in a large boiler or kettle of lukewarm water. Let 
the water come within two inches of the top of the cans which 
must not touch each other. Cover the cans with a thick, folded 
cloth, and steam until the fruit is soft. A syrup made of equal 
parts of sugar and water can be poured into each jar, filling it two- 
thirds full, or sugar can be sprinkled over the berries before put- 
ting into the jars, and then steam. If sugar is not used, fill each 
can full from one kept hot for that purpose, take out from the 
boiler with a cloth, set on the table, out of a draft, and screw on 
the top taken from a pan of hot water, first putting on the rubber 
rings. Everything about the fruit must be kept hot. Before 
screwing on the top, slip a silver spoon into the jar to allow the air 
bubbles to escape, then screw it on as firmly as possible, and in- 
vert the can on a table in a cool place. Leakage will then be 
known immediate!}'. When the cans are cool, give another screw 



298 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

to the cover. Use labels, and apply with the white of an egg. 
Set them in a cool, dark place, as light and warmth, as well as 
moisture, causes fermentation. If large mouthed bottles must be 
used in canning, steam the corks, pare them to fit closel}*, and 
drive them in with a mallet. Seal with plaster of Paris, or a wax 
made as follows : One pound resin, three ounces beeswax, one and 
one-half ounces tallow. Put it on the corks with a brush at first, 
and while cooling dip the mouth of the bottle into the melted wax. 
To can successfully, have close-fitting covers for the cans, soft, 
firm rubber rings, keep everything hot, fill the cans full, and seal 
immediately. Use wooden or silver spoons, porcelain ladles, sil- 
ver forks, clean, soft towels, and take plenty of time, care and 
patience. 

LENGTH OP TIME REQUIRED FOR COOKING FRUIT. 

Blueberries and cherries 5 min. 

Currants, blackberries, raspberries 6 to 8 " 

Gooseberries and halved peaches 10 " 

Strawberries 15 " 

Whole peaches 20 " 

Halved pears and quinces 20 " 

Sliced pineapple 20 " 

Crab apples and sliced pears 30 " 

DR. SUSANNA DODD'S TABLE OF PROPORTIONS. 

Fruit. Water. Sugar. 

Strawberries 5 quarts 1 quart % cup. 

Red currants 5 " 3 quarts 1 

Red raspberries 5 " 2 " % 

Black raspberries 5 " 5 pints y z 

Raspberries and currants .. . 5 " 5 " % 

Blackberries 5 " 3 " % 

Gooseberries 6 " 2 quarts 2 

" for pies 6 " 3 pints 2 

May cherries 5 " 3 quarts % 

Black Morello cherries 5 " 2 " 1 

Seeded Morello, for pies 5 " 2 " \% " 

Grapes 6 " 2 " No sugar. 

Cranberries 2 " 3 pints 1 cup. 

Peaches 6 " 1 quart No sugar. 

Pears 7 " 1 " " 

Damson plums 6 " ...... 5 pints 2 cups. 

Green or blue gage 6 " 3 " 1 cup. 



FRUIT. 299 

CANNED APPLE SAUCE. 

Make a syrup of 2 cups water to one-half cup sugar, and pre- 
pare tart apples — mellow ones that are not likely to keep long may 
be used. Put the fruit into the boiling syrup, let cook slowly till 
done, and can. Do not stir while cooking if it is desired to keep 
the fruit whole. Or, omit the sugar when canning, and heat and 
add sugar before using. 

CANNED APPLES AND QUINCES. 

Prepare equal quantities of apples and quinces. Cook quinces 
till tender in water sufficient to cover them, take out the quinces 
and cook the apples in the same water. Put in jars in alternate 
layers and cover with a syrup, allowing one-half pound of sugar to 
1 pound of fruit, and water to dissolve it. Let stand 12 hours, 
heat thoroughly and seal in cans. 

CANNED BERRIES. 

Select berries whose skins. have not been broken, or the juice 
will darken the syrup ; fill cans compactly, set in a kettle of cold 
water, with a cloth beneath them, over an even heat; when suf- 
ficiently heated, pour over the berries a syrup of white sugar. 
The richer the syrup is the better for keeping, though not for 
preserving the flavor of the fruit. Cover the cans closely to re- 
tain heat on the top berries. To insure full cans when cold, have 
extra berries heated in like manner to supply shrinkage. If the 
fruit swims, pour off surplus syrup, fill with hot fruit, and seal up 
as soon as the fruit at the top is thoroughly scalded. 

PLAIN CANNED BERRIES. 

Pick out stems or hulls, if gathered carefully the berries will 
not need washing, put in a porcelain kettle on the stove, adding a 
small cup of water to prevent burning at first. Skim well, add 
sugar to taste, if for pies it may be omitted, let boil 5 minutes, fill 
glass or stone cans, and seal with putty or plaster of Paris, unless 
self sealers are used. This rule applies to raspberries, blackber- 
ries, currants, gooseberries, or any of the small berries. 

CANNED BLACKBERRIES. 

To each quart of berries allow 1 pint sugar, sprinkle the sugar 
over the berries and set in a warm place till the juice settles suf- 



300 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

ficiently ; boil 15 minutes, put into cans and seal at once. Black 
raspberries may be canned in the same manner. 

CANNED BLUEBERRIES. 

Look the berries over carefully, wash them, and for every quart 
can, allow 1 cup sugar, add water enough to prevent burning, and 
cook 10 minutes. Can the same as other fruit. An ordinary 
crate holds sixteen quarts and will can about ten quarts. 

CANNED CHERRIES— 1. 

Wash and stone the cherries, straining the juice and adding it to 
the fruit. Sprinkle with sugar, allowing 1 cup sugar to each 
quart. Let stand till the juice settles, cook slowly 10 minutes, 
pour into cans and seal. The flavor of cherries is improved by 
boiling a tablespoonf ul of the pits tied in a muslin bag, with each 
can of fruit. Remove before sealing. 

CANNED CHERRIES 2. 

% pint sugar, 1 cup water. 

2 pounds pitted cherries. 

Sour cherries are best for canning, but white ones are also nice 

as they retain their color after cooking. They require less sugar. 

Make a syrup of sugar and water in the proportions given, skim, 

acid the fruit, and boil 5 minutes ; pour into jars and seal at once. 

CANNED CITRON. 
1 pound fruit, 1 lemon, sliced, 

M pound sugar, Ginger to flavor. 

Pare the citron, cut it in little blocks and steam till tender. 
Make a syrup of the sugar and water sufficient to fill the cans ; 
let it boil 10 minutes, add the fruit, ginger and lemon, boil 3 min- 
utes, pour into cans and seal. 

CANNED CURRANTS. 

Look the currants over carefully, removing stems ; weigh, and 
heat slowly in a covered kettle ; stew gently 20 or 30 minutes, and 
add sugar, allowing 1 pound to each pound of fruit. Shake the 
kettle occasionally to mix the fruit and sugar; do not boil, but 
keep as hot as possible till the sugar is dissolved ; seal at once. 
White currants are excellent canned in this manner. 



FRUIT. 301 

CANNED ELDERBERRIES 1. 

16 pounds elderberries, 7 pounds sugar, 

2 pounds seeded raisins, 1 pint vinegar. 
Cook thoroughly and seal in cans or jars. 

CANNED ELDERBERRIES 2. 

1 gallon elderberries, 1 quart seeded grapes, 

1 quart N. O. molasses. 

Boil half an hour and seal. This will also keep well in jars. 

GREEN GOOSEBERRIES. 

Cook the berries in water until white, but not enough to break 
them ; put into cans with as little water as possible, fill up the can 
with boiling water and seal ; when opened pour off the water and 
cook like fresh berries. 

CANNED GRAPES — 1. 

Look over the grapes carefully, wash and weigh them, using one- 
half pound sugar to 1 pound fruit. Prepare the grapes by pop- 
ping the pulps from the skins as directed in recipe for preserving 
grapes ; cook the pulp till the seeds are loosened, strain through a 
sieve, add the skins and sugar to the juice, cook 15 minutes, pour 
into cans and seal at once. 

CANNED GRAPES — 2. 

Pick over the grapes carefully, wash in hot water, and fill the 
cans as solidly as possible ; set on a cloth in a kettle of cool water 
and heat. When the water boils, add a syrup made of equal 
measures of sugar and water, filling the cans to overflowing, and 
seal. Take the cans from the water, cool, and tighten the covers. 

CANNED FRUIT JUICES. 

Press the juice from fresh, ripe fruit, strain through a flannel 
cloth, and to each pint add 1 cup granulated sugar ; heat to the 
boiling point, and seal in small fruit cans or in bottles. In the 
latter use only new corks. Press them in firmly and cover well 
with plaster of Paris to exclude the air. Fruit juices areCused in 
cakes, puddings, and sauces. 

CANNED PEACHES — 1. 

3 pounds sugar, 1 pint vinegar, 

1 peck clingstone peaches. 
Pour boiling water over the peaches to remove the fuzz ; make 



302 • HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

a sjTup of the sugar and vinegar, using a little water if required 
to cover the peaches ; cook soft, and can as usual. 

CANNED PEACHES 2. 

Pare, halve and stone ; make a syrup of 1 pint granulated sugar 
to 1 quart water, cook in a porcelain kettle, and when it boils, 
drop in enough fruit for one can; watch closely, testing with a 
silver fork, remove very gently when the peaches are tender, and 
place in the can previously heated according to instructions. 
When filled, pour in the hot syrup, cover, and seal at once; add 
the fruit to the hot syrup, and repeat the operation. If there are 
more peaches than are needed, place them in another can and keep 
hot until more are ready, and so on until all are canned. Skim 
the syrup before adding peaches, making only enough at one time 
for two cans. 

CANNED PEACHES 3. 

Make a sweet syrup and keep it hot in a porcelain kettle on the 
stove. Have plenty of hot water in another one. Pare, halve 
and drop the peaches into the boiling water; let them remain 
until a silver fork will pierce them, then lift out with a wire spoon, 
fill a can, pour in all the boiling sjTiip it will hold, and seal imme- 
diately. Continue in this way, preparing and sealing only one can 
at a time ; boil down the water with the syrup, if any is left ; if 
not, add more sugar, and quite a nice marmalade will result. 

CANNED PEACHES 4. 

Pare and halve the peaches, removing the pits, and lay them in 
cold water. Make a syrup, using 1 pound sugar to 3 pints hot 
water. Fill the jars with the cold peaches, sprinkling each layer 
well with sugar ; fill the jars with the hot syrup, and seal imme- 
diately. 

CANNED PEACHES STEAMED. 

To peel, place in a wire basket, dip into boiling water for a mo- 
ment, then into cold water, and'strip off the skin ; this saves both 
fruit and labor. The fruit must not be too green or it will not 
peel, nor too ripe or it will be softened by the hot water. Place a 
cloth in the bottom of a steamer, half fill with the peaches from 
which the pits have been removed, cover tightly, set over a kettle 
of boiling water, and steam till they can be easily pierced with a 



FRUIT. 303 

silver"" fork. Prepare a syrup in a porcelain kettle; drop the 
peaches gently into the boiling syrup for a moment, remove to the 
cans, fill with the syrup, and seal at once. With the exception of 
the mode of peeling, this recipe applies equally well to pears. 

CANNED PEARS. 

Prepare and can as in recipe for canning peaches No. 2, except 
that they require longer cooking. When done they are easily 
pierced with a silver fork. A sliced lemon may be added. 

CANNED PINEAPPLE. 

Pare, cut out the eyes, and pick the pulp from the core of ripe 
pineapples ; make a syrup, using 2^- pounds sugar to 3 pints water ; 
boil 5 minutes, skim, add fruit, let boil up well, pour into hot cans 
and seal. 

CANNED PLUMS. 

2 pounds plums, 1 pound sugar, 

1 pint water. 

Make a syrup of the sugar and water, wash the plums and put 

them into the syrup whole, boil 8 minutes, put into cans and seal 

at once. If pricked with a fork before placing in S}Tup they are 

less apt to burst. Cherries may be canned in the same manner. 

Twelve pounds of damsons and three pounds of sugar will fill six 

quart cans, and the same rule holds good for pears and peaches. 

CANNED GREEN GAGE PLUMS. 

Look the fruit over carefully and wash it ; fill the cans and place 
in a boiler of cold water, having the water come up as far as pos- 
sible around the cans and not boil over into the fruit. Cook till 
the fruit is tender — 1£ or 2 hours. Take out the cans and pour 
the juice that has accumulated on the plums into a preserving ket- 
tle, and add sufficient sugar to make a rich syrup ; let boil up well, 
fill the cans, return to the boiler, and let stand in the boiling water 
15 minutes longer ; screw on the tops, and remove from the water. 
Each can must be full before sealing. 

TO KEEP PLUMS. 

Select perfect plums, which are not too ripe, and fill a large 
crock, putting them in carefully so as not to break the skins. 
Then cover them with water, which must be poured on boiling hot, 
and turn over them a plate which will fit into the crock easily, al- 



304 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

lowing none of the plums to rise above it. The water should be 
level with the top. Keep the crock in the cellar, and cover it with 
a board. A scum will rise on the plums during the winter, which 
helps to keep them. When wanted for use, scald them, pour off 
the water, add more, and stew until tender. Sweeten to taste. 

CANNED RASPBERRIES 1. 

To preserve the shape and color of red raspberries, put them 
carefully into the cans, sprinkling in sugar if desired. Fill the 
cans, shaking the berries down gently, and proceed as directed in 
recipe for Canned Berries, except that no syrup will be required. 
Put the covers on loosely to retain the heat, and cook till the fruit 
boils, filling the cans as it settles with extra berries heated in the 
same manner. Screw the covers down tight and take the cans 
from the water, being careful to tighten the covers as they cool. 

CANNED RASPBERRIES 2. 

Have ready a pan of ice-cold water. Look over the berries, and 
throw 1 quart at a time into the water. With a wire skimmer, 
dip them carefully into a granite-lined kettle. For every 3 quarts 
allow 1 large cup sugar. Let them stand till there is enough juice 
to cook without burning. Simmer slowly, being careful not to 
break the fruit. When thoroughly heated, fill the cans, screw on 
the top, shake down, open and fill again, sealing quickly, and keep 
in a dark, cool place. Black-caps require some water, as they are 
much dryer than the red berries. Red raspberries and currants 
in equal quantities may be canned in the same manner. 

CANNED RASPBERRIES WITH CURRANT JUICE. 

12 pounds sugar, 1 quart currant juice, 

10 pounds red or black raspberries. 

Make syrup of the sugar and juice ; when boiling, add the fruit, 
and continue to boil for 10 minutes. Put in glass cans and fasten 
immediately. 

CANNED RHUBARB. 

Prepare and stew without sugar, and as little water as possible 
to prevent burning, before the juice flows. Have the cans ready, 
fill, and screw on covers quickly. When cool, wrap the cans in 
brown paper, and keep in a cool, dark place. Or, let simmer for 



FRUIT. 305 

half an hour in a syrup, using the same weight of sugar as fruit, 
then seal. 

Always use granite, earthen, or glass for rhubarb. The leaves 
should be cut from the stalk as soon as it is pulled, and it should 
be kept in a cool place, to have it fresh and firm for a day or two. 

CANNED STRAWBERRIES 1. 

To each quart of fresh strawberries allow 1 coffeecup sugar. 
If there is no juice in the bottom of the fruit, add 1 or 2 table- 
spoons water to prevent burning before the heat brings out the 
juice; heat slowly, and when it boils, add the sugar, stir gently 
until it boils up again, and can immediately. It is better to cook 
only enough fruit for one can at a time. Usually a few spoonfuls of 
the syrup will be left to begin the next can. Strawberries are con- 
sidered difficult to keep, but there is no trouble if the fruit is fresh, 
the can air-tight, and kept according to general directions for can- 
ning fruit. 

CANNED STRAWBERRIES 2. 

Place as many berries as can be put carefully into the preserv- 
ing kettle on a platter ; add sugar, allowing three-quarters of a 
pound to each pound of fruit, and let them stand 2 or 3 hours ; 
pour the juice that has settled into the kettle, remove the scum 
that rises when it begins to boil, and put the berries carefully into 
it. Let them boil up thoroughly, and seal at once. 

CANNED AVATERMELON. 

X A pound sugar, 1 pound fruit, 

Ginger root. 

Cut off the rind, remove all the red part, and cut the rest in strips 
2 or 3 inches long ; boil until tender enough to pierce with a fork, 
remove from the water and drain a few moments. Have a syrup 
ready, using only what water is necessary to dissolve the sugar, 
skim, add the melon and a few pieces of ginger root, cook a few 
moments and seal in cans while hot. 



306 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

JAMS. 

Cleanse the fruit carefully and bruise it well to prevent its hard- 
ening when cooked. Two methods for making are given. Allow 
equal proportions of sugar and fruit, mash thoroughly, and cook 
over a slow fire till it jellies. Or, allow three-quarters of a pound 
of sugar to one pound of fruit. Cook the mashed fruit fifteen or 
twenty minutes before adding the sugar, heated, and from ten to 
thirty minutes afterward. Stir sufficiently to prevent scorching, 
watching carefully. In making butter or marmalade the same 
proportions are used, but the fruit is cooked to a firmer consist- 
ency. Jams are made from the more juicy berries, such as black- 
berries, currants, raspberries, strawberries, etc. ; butters or marma- 
lades from the firmer fruits, such as apples, pineapples, oranges, 
peaches and apricots. All require the closest attention, as the 
slightest degree of burning ruins the flavor. Jam or marmalade is 
sufficiently cooked when no juice or moisture gathers about it, 
and it looks dry and glistening if dropped on a plate. Put up in 
glass or small stone jars, and seal or secure like canned fruits or 
jellies. Keep jellies and jams in a cool, dry, and dark place. 

APPLE BUTTER. 

Take ripe apples, crab apples give a fine flavor, put them in a 
preserving kettle, after cutting them in quarters, barely cover 
with water, boil soft, and strain through a sieve. To each 
pint of pulp add two-thirds of a pint of sugar, or 1 pint if the 
apples are very sour, and boil slowly for several hours until the 
mixture is firm. It must be stirred ^almost constantly to prevent 
burning. If any spice is desired use cinnamon. Put in stone jars 
or bowls, and when cold cover as for jelly. Or, strain off some of 
the juice for jelly, put the remainder of the apple through a sieve, 
and proceed as directed above. 

PUMPKIN BUTTER. 

Prepare 1 pumpkin ; cut it in small pieces, and stew till soft. 
Prepare 3 more pumpkins, stew, and strain through a coarse jelly 
bag; add the juice to the first pumpkin and boil 10 hours or 
more, until it is very thick, stirring often. 



FRUIT. 307 

RHUBARB BUTTER. 

Allow 1 pound of sugar to each pound of peeled and chopped 
rhubarb; let them simmer together gently for an hour, or more if 
the rhubard is old and tough. 

APPLE JAM. 
10 pounds apples, 3 lemons, juice, 

7 pounds sugar, 1 lemon, rind. 

Pare and slice the apples, boil all together slowly, stir, mash 
well, and cook until clear. 

BLACKBERRY AND APPLE JAM. 
2 quarts blackberries, 1 quart cooked apples, 

2 quarts sugar. 
Boil all together 20 minutes. 

CURRANT JAM. 

Pick from stems and wash thoroughly, put into a preserving ket- 
tle and boil 15 or 20 minutes, stirring often, and skimming; add 
sugar in the proportion of three-quarters of a pound to 1 pound 
fruit, or, by measure, 1 coffeecup to 1 pint mashed fruit; boil 30 
minutes longer, stirring almost constantl}'. When done, pour in 
small jars or glasses, and seal ; or secure like jelly, by first pressing 
paper, cut to fit the glasses, on the fruit, and then larger papers, 
brushed on the inside with the white of egg, whose edges turn 
down over the outside of the glass. 

The addition of 1 pound of raisins to each gallon of currant 
jam converts this into French jam. 

PINEAPPLE JAM; 

Grate pineapple, and to 1 pound of pulp add three-quarters of a 
pound of sugar. Boil 10 minutes. No water is required. 

RASPBERRY JAM— 1. 

Make by itself, or, better, combine with currants in the propor- 
tion of one-third currants to two-thirds raspberries ; mash the fruit 
well, and proceed as in currant jam. 

• Make blackberry jam like raspberry, except that it should not 
be mixed with currants. 

Strawberry jam is made exactty like blackberry jam. 

RASPBERRY JAM 2. 

Weigh the fruit and allow three-quarters of a pound of sugar to 
1 pound of fruit. Mash together and let stand a few hours or 



308 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

over night in the cellar or ice-box. Drain off the juice, and when 
boiling hot, add the berries. Simmer until as thick as desired. 
Pour into jelly tumblers, or bowls, and when cold cover with but- 
tered paper. 

STRAWBERRY JAM. 

Allow three-quarters of a pound of sugar to 1 pound of fruit, 
and 2 cups of red currant juice to every 4 pounds of berries if a 
tart flavor is liked. Put the berries in the preserving kettle, pour 
over the currant juice, and boil about 30 minutes, stirring almost 
constantly ; dip off most of the juice, add the sugar, and boil 30 
minutes more, skimming when necessary. Put in small jars or 
jelly glasses. Can the juice that is left over, or strain it for jelly. 

GREEN TOMATO JA M. 

Peel and slice green tomatoes, boil slowly 4 hours in a syrup 
made in the proportion of 1 pound sugar to 2 pounds tomatoes ; 
when done flavor with lemons. 

APPLE MARMALADE. 

Peel, quarter and core a large panful of tart apples, cover with 
water and cook till very soft. Squeeze the juice and pulp through 
a thin jelly bag ; weigh, and allow three-quarters of a pound of 
sugar to 1 pound of pulp. Add a little gelatine dissolved in 
water, and let it boil steadily 20 minutes. 

CRAB APPLE AND PLUM MARMALADE. 

Cook the apples and plums separately, as for sauce, put through 
a sieve and measure each. Allow 3 pints of the apple pulp to 1 
of plum ; mix and weigh, adding 1 pound of sugar to each pound 
of pulp. Cook very slowly, stirring constantly to prevent scorch- 
ing, until very thick. The thicker the marmalade is the nicer it 
is, and the flavor of the combined fruit is delicious. 

CHE RR V M A KM A L ADE. 

This is best made of fine Morella cherries. Wash the cherries 
and put them on to stew with 1 gill of water to 1 pound of fruit. 
When perfectly tender pass them through a colander to extract the 
stones. To 1 pound of the pulp add 1 pound of sugar, and when 
the sugar is dissolved put over the fire, and boil to a smooth paste. 

* GOOSEBERRY MARMALADE 1. 

Stew the berries in a little water, press through a coarse sieve, 



FRUIT. 309 

return to the kettle, and add three-fourths of a pound of sugar to 
each pound of the pulped gooseberry ; boil three-quarters of an 
hour, stirring constantly ; pour in jars or bowls, and cover as di- 
rected for currant jam. It will cook in the oven with less danger 
of scorching, and will not need as much cai*e as if on the stove. 
The doors should be partly open. 

GOOSEBERRY MARMALADE 2. 

Top and tail the fruit, bruise it and cook till soft, stirring con- 
stantly. Rub through a sieve, and add to the pulp 4£ pounds of 
sugar to 6 pounds of the original weight of the fruit. Add the 
sugar gradually, and boil until firm. 

GRAPE MARMALADE. 

This is made of ripe or green grapes. After picking them from 
the stems and rinsing well, stew gently in a porcelain or granite 
kettle, for 10 minutes, in just enough water to keep them from 
sticking ; run them through a sieve or fine colander to remove the 
skins and seeds. To each pint of sifted pulp and juice, add three- 
fourths of a pint of sugar, and boil until of the consistency de- 
sired ; a large quantity will need to boil at least 2 hours. 

ORANGE MARMALADE. 

8 oranges, 4 quarts water, 

5 lemons, 8 pounds sugar. 

Slice the fruit, take out the seeds, add water and let stand 36 

hours ; then boil hard for 2 hours ; add the sugar and boil slowly 

1 hour or until it jellies. 

ORANGE MARMALADE, SCOTCH WAY. 

Slice the oranges very thin, taking out the seeds. To each 
pound of fruit, add 2 pints water. Let this stand 24 hours ; then 
boil until the chips are tender. Next da}', weigh it, and to each 
pound add 1£ pounds of lump sugar. Boil the whole until the 
syrup jellies, and the chips are clean This will be in an hour. 
One dozen oranges makes about twenty pound pots of marmalade. 

PEACH MARMALADE 1. 

Take very ripe peaches, mash fine, put in a porcelain kettle 
until quite warm, strain through a colander, weigh, put back in the 
kettle, and allow three-fourths of a pound sugar to each pound 



310 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

fruit. Stir well until the sugar is melted, boil fast 20 minutes, 
and put in small bowls. "When cold, seal the same as jelly 

PEACH MARMALADE 2. 

Choose ripe, well-flavored fruit, It is wise to make preserves at 
the same time, reserving for marmalade those that are soft. Boil 
the pits in the water with which the syrup is to be made. Pare and 
quarter the peaches and boil 30 minutes before adding sugar, stir- 
ring almost constantly from the time the peaches begin to cook ; 
add sugar in the proportion of three-fourths of a pound to 1 pound 
fruit, continue to boil and stir for an hour longer, and put up in 
jars, pressing paper over them as directed for jellies. 

PINEAPPLE MARMALADE. 

Prepare as for preserving, and continue cooking the pineapple 
pulp for half an hour, then strain it through a colander. Return 
to the fire and boil, stirring continually till it curls before the fin- 
ger, which is pushed through a little taken out to cool. Or, peel 
the pineapples and grate them, saving all the juice. The pulp and 
juice should then be weighed, and 1 pound of sugar added to every 
pound of pineapple. When the marmalade has boiled half an 
hour, test it by pushing the finger through a little which has been 
taken out to cool. If it is not done cook it longer. 

PLUM MARMALADE. 

Wash the fruit, and stew it with enough water to keep from 
scorching. Mash, and strain through a colander. To 1 pint of 
pulp add 1 pound of sugar. When the sugar is dissolved, boil it 
till it is a smooth mass. Or. use plums left after straining off the 
juice for jelly, and sift to remove stones and skins ; to 1 pint of 
pulp add one-half pound of sugar, and boil slowly, stirring well to 
prevent burning, until smooth and thick. 

QUINCE MARMALADE. 

Take quinces after making jelly, boil till soft, put through a 
colander, and to 1 pound of pulp add 1 pound of sugar. Boil till 
of the consistency desired. Canned or preserved quinces may also 
be used for marmalade by chopping fine, adding sugar if needed. 
and cooking till firm. 



FRUIT. 311 

JELLIES. 

Jellies should be made from the best fruit, with granulated 
sugar, and cooked in a porcelain or granite kettle. Be careful to 
choose fruit that is barely ripe, otherwise the juice will not jelly 
well, and will have a tendency to liquefy. Place the fruit in the 
kettle with just enough water to keep from burning, stir often, and 
let remain on the fire until thoroughly scalded ; a better but slower 
method is to place it in a stone jar set within a kettle of tepid 
water, cook until the fruit is well softened, stirring frequently, and 
then strain a small quantity at a time through a strong, coarse 
flannel or cotton bag wrung out of hot water, after which let it 
drain, and squeeze it with the hands as it cools, or strain through 
another bag to make it very clear. The larger fruits, such as ap- 
ples and quinces, should be cut in pieces, cores removed if at all 
defective, water added to just cover them, boiled gently until ten- 
der, turned into a bag and placed to drain for three or four hours, 
or over night. As a general rule, allow equal measures of juice 
and sugar. Boil juice ten minutes from the first moment of boil- 
ing, skim, add sugar, and boil ten minutes longer ; or spread the 
sugar in a large earthen bowl, set in the oven, stir to prevent burn- 
ing, boil the juice ten minutes, skim if needed, add the hot sugar, 
let boil up once, and pour into jelly glasses immediately, as a thin 
skin forms over the surface which keeps out the air. To test 
jell}', drop a little in a glass of very cold water, and if it immedi- 
ately falls to the bottom it is done ; or drop in a saucer, and set on 
ice or in a cool place; if it does not spread, but remains rounded, 
it is finished. Set the glasses on a wet cloth and the boiling 
liquid can be poured into them without danger of breaking; <>r. 
let the liquid run into them over a silver spoon standing in the jar 
or glass. When ready to put away, cover with pieces of writing or 
tissue paper, cut to fit, and pressed closely over the jelly ; put on a 
cover of thicker paper, brushed over on the inside with the unbeaten 
white of an egg, and turned down on the outside of the glass. 
Keep in a dry, cool, and dark place. Jell}' needs more attention 
in damp, rainy seasons than in others. 

APPLE JELLY. 

Wash, quarter, and core tart, juicy apples, and to s quarts quar- 



312 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

tered apples add 3 quarts water. Let them boil slowly until a 
mush, renewing the water as it boils away so that the dish is as 
full when the apples are done as it was at first. Strain through 
flannel, allowing it to drain thoroughly, but do not squeeze it. 
Add 1 pint of sugar to 1 pint of juice, and boil 20 minutes, skim- 
ming it well. 

CRAB APPLE JELLY. 

Wash and quarter large Siberian crabs, but do not core them, 
cover to the depth of 1 or 2 inches with cold water, and cook to a 
mush ; pour into a coarse cotton bag or strainer, and extract all 
the juice. Take a piece of cheese cloth or crinoline, wring out of 
water, spread it over a colander placed on a crock, and pour in the 
juice, allowing plenty of time to run through ; repeat this process, 
rinsing the cloth frequently. Allow the strained juice of 4 lemons 
to 1 peck of apples, and three-fourths of a pound of sugar to each 
pint of juice. Boil the juice from 10 to 20 minutes; while boil- 
ing sift in the sugar slowly, stirring constantly, and boil 5 minutes 
longer. This is generally sufficient, but it is always safer to ascer- 
tain whether it will jelly. 

CRAB APPLE JELLY AND MARMALADE. 

Have good, sound crab apples, not too ripe, cut out all defec- 
tive portions, wash, and to 8 quarts apples add 3 quarts water; 
boil slowly 1 hour, or till the fruit is quite soft, renewing the 
' water that the apples may be covered when cooked. Strain 
through a jelly bag, but do not press with the hands, as only the 
clear juice is used for the jelly, and let it boil 10 or 15 minutes; 
then add the sugar, which has been heated in the oven, allowing 1 
pint of sugar to each pint of fruit, and boil 5 minutes longer. 
Or, press the pulp through a sieve to take out the cores and skins. 
To each pint of pulp add 1 pint of sugar, and cook till of the con- 
sistency desired. 

BLACKBERRY JELLY 1. 

Squeeze the juice from the berries and strain it; add an equal 
quantity of sugar, and boil hard 25 minutes, then pour into 
moulds. 



FRUIT. 31$ 

BLACKBERRY JELLY 2. 

4 pints blackberry juice, K box gelatine, 

3 pints sugar, Water to dissolve gelatine. 

Dissolve the gelatine in the water, stir it into the juice, to which 
the sugar has been added, and boil 15 minutes. 

CALKS. FEET JELLY. 

2 calf's feet, X A pound loaf sugar, 

2 quarts water, 6 lemons, 

4 eggs, whites and shells. 
Cut the feet in small pieces, after they have been well cleaned 
and the hair taken off. Stew very gently in the water, until it is 
reduced to 1 quart. When cold, take off the fat, and remove the 
jelly from the sediment. Put it into a saucepan with the sugar, 
the lemons sliced, with the peel rubbed on the sugar, the whites of 
the eggs well beaten, and the shells broken. Set over the fire, but 
do not stir after it begins to warm. Let it boil 15 minutes after 
it comes to a head, then cover close, let stand half an hour, and 
pour it through a jelly bag until clear. Add more lemons or 
oranges to suit the taste. 

CHERRY JELLY. 

Look over and pit sour, perfect, and juicy cherries. While heat- 
ing, mash them, strain through a jelly bag, measure juice, and add 
1 pint of sugar to every pint of juice. Simmer slowly until a scum 
rises; skim, and boil 15 minutes. Dip into tumblers. Next day 
cover with white paper and fasten the edges with white of egg. 

COFFEE JELLY. 

34 box Cox's gelatine, 1 quart strong black coffee, 

)4 cup cold water, Sugar. 

Soak the gelatine half an hour in the cold water. Heat the 
coffee to boiling point, sweeten to taste, add dissolved gelatine, 
stir well, strain into a mould rinsed with cold water just before 
using, set on ice or in a very cool place, and serve with cream or 
whipped cream. This jelly is very pretty, formed in a circular 
mould with a tube in the center ; when turned out fill the space in 
the center with whipped cream. 

CRANBERRY JELLY. 

Prepare juice as in general directions, add 1 pound sugar to 
every pint, boil and skim, and test; rinse the glasses in cold water 



314 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

before pouring in the jelly. The pulp may be sweetened and used 
for sauce. Or, wash and boil sound berries to a pulp, with just 
enough water to prevent their burning. Pass thern through a 
colander or a fruit strainer to remove the skins. Add an equal 
quantity of granulated sugar to the juice, and boil firm. Mould in 
individual dishes or in a large mould, after dipping in very cold 
water. 

CURRANT JELLY. 

Put the fruit into a stone jar, and set it in a kettle of tepid water 
over the fire. Heat gradually and let boil, closely covered, until 
the skins break, Pour the whole into a clean, stout muslin bag, 
and let it drip into a large earthen bowl or stone jar several hours 
or over night. It is best not to squeeze it, as it will not be so 
cleai\ To each pint of juice, allow 1 pound of sugar. Put the 
juice on to heat slowly, and let it boil 20 minutes. Meanwhile, 
heat the sugar in the oven, and put it into the boiling juice, where 
it will melt very quickly. Let the jelly just come to a boil and 
remove at once from the fire. Set the jelly glasses on a wet towel 
folded in 4 thicknesses, and fill with the liquid. If it does not 
seem firm enough when cool, set it in the sun. Boiling jelly 
darkens it. Other small fruit jellies are made in the same way. 
Strawberry jell}' is improved by lemon juice. Cover closely and 
keep in a cool, dark place. 

CURRANT JELLY WITHOUT COOKING. 

Pick from stems and wash, being very careful that no water is 
left on them. Press out the juice and strain it. To every pint 
allow 1 pound fine white sugar ; stir well together until the sugar 
is dissolved, pour in cans, seal and set them in the hot sun for 2 or 
3 days. Or, prepare the juice, and set it in a cool place in the cel- 
lar for 24 hours. The froth that will cover the surface at the end 
of that time must be removed, and the juice strained through a 
jelly bag, then weighed, and an equal weight of powdered sugar 
added. Stir constantly till the sugar is thoroughly dissolved, 
pour into jars, and cover tightly. A transparent jelly of fine 
flavor, which will keep well, will be found at the end of 24 hours. 

ECONOMICAL JELLY. 

Cook a gallon jar of sound, clean apple parings in enough water 



FRUIT. 315 

to make 6 teacups of juice when the parings are soft. Strain the 
juice, bring it to a boil and skim it; then add 3 cups sugar, and 
boil the jelly till it is of the proper consistency. 

ELDERBERRY AND GRAPE JELLY. 
4 pounds ripe elderberries, • Sugar, 

4 pounds green or partially ripe grapes. 
Mash the fruit and put it into a porcelain kettle, add one-half 
cup water, and boil until soft. Strain through a jelly bag, meas- 
ure the juice, return it to the fire and boil 30 minutes ; add an 
equal quantity of sugar, boil 5 or 10 minutes longer, pour into 
glasses, and seal when cool. 

FOUR-FRUIT JELLY. 

Take equal quantities of strawberries, raspberries, currants, and 
red cherries, stoned, adding the juice that escaped in stoning. 
Mix the fruit together, put it into a linen bag, and squeeze thor- 
oughly ; when it has ceased to drip, measure, and to 1 pint of juice 
allow 1 pound and 2 ounces of sugar. Mix the juice and sugar 
together ; put into a preserving kettle, and boil half an hour, skim- 
ming frequently. Try the jelly by holding a spoonful in the open 
air ; if it congeals readily it is sufficiently done. 

GOOSEBERRY JELLY. 
4 pounds unripe gooseberries. Sugar, 

2 quarts water, 34 box gelatine. 

Cook the gooseberries in the water, strain through a jelly bag, 
allow 1 pint sugar to each pint of juice, add the sugar, and gela- 
tine dissolved in water, and boil all together 15 or 20 minutes. 

GRAPE JELLY. 

This ma} T be made from grapes in all degrees of ripeness, that 
from green grapes having a peculiarly delicate flavor and fine color. 
Stew as for marmalade, then pour off the juice, and strain through 
a flannel cloth, not squeezing or pressing it any, as particles of 
pulp give the jelly a cloudy appearance. To each pint of clear 
juice, add 1 pint of sugar, and Soil 20 minutes. Set the glasses 
on a wet towel and fill with the jelly. 

FOX GRAPE JELLY. 

Take green fox grapes, wash, and put in a preserving kettle with 
just water enough to pulp them. When tender, mash and strain 
through a cloth. To each pint of the juice add 1 pound of sugar, 



316 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

and 1 teaspoon powdered gum arabic dissolved in warm water. 
When the sugar has dissolved, stir it well, and place the kettle 
over the fire. Let it boil 15 or 20 minutes, and try it. Pour 
it into the glasses while warm, and let itstand till next day before 
covering. 

SPICED GRAPE JELLY. 

1 quart grape juice, 2 tablespoons cinnamon, 

1 quart sugar, 1 teaspoon cloves. 

Crush the juice from half ripe grapes, and strain it. Use the 
ingredients in the above proportions, and cook hard 20 minutes ; 
remove from the fire and pour into glasses. 

LEMON JELLY. 

y 2 box gelatine, 1 pint boiling water, 

y 2 pint cold water, \ l / 2 cups sugar, 

3 lemons, juice. 

Soak the gelatine in the cold water 1 hour, add the boiling 
water, sugar, and juice of lemons ; let stand on the stove till boil- 
ing, strain into moulds and set in a cool place till ready to serve. 
The addition of a few thin slices of lemon a. few moments before 
straining improves the flavor. 

ORANGE JELLY. 

9 oranges, juice, 4 ounces gelatine, 

?> lemons, juice, 1 pound sugar, 

1 egg, white, 2 quarts water. 

Soak the gelatine in 1 pint of the water, boil the rest with the 
sugar, skim well, add the dissolved gelatine, orange and lemon 
juice, and beaten egg; let come to a boil, skim, cook until it 
jellies, and pour into a mould. 

PEACH JELLY, 

Pare, pit and slice the peaches and place them in a jar. Crack 
one-third of the pits and add them to the peaches. Heat in a ket- 
tle of boiling water, stirring occasionally until the fruit is well 
broken. Strain, and to each pint of juice add the juice of 1 
lemon, and measure again. Allow 1 pound sugar to each pint 
juice, heat it very hot, and add to the juice when it has boiled 20 
minutes. Let it come to a boil again, and take from the fire at 
(»nce. This is recommended for jelly cake. 



FRUIT 317 

PINEAPPLE JELLY. 
% box gelatine, 1 pint boiling water, 

3a pint cold water, 1 l .; cups sugar, 

1 can pineapple. 
Soak the gelatine in the cold water 1 hour ; add the boiling 
water, sugar, and the pineapple reduced to a pulp. Bring to a 
hoil, strain into a mould, and set on ice to cool. Wrap a cloth 
dipped in hot water around the mould for a few moments, when 
ready for use, and it will slip out easily. 

PLUM JELLY AND MARMALADE. 

If the plums are wild, sprinkle with soda and pour hot water 
over them, let stand a few moments and stir them ; take out, and 
put on to cook with water enough to cover them, — if the plums are 
very juicy less water will be required — boil till soft, strain through 
a jell}', bag, but avoid squeezing. Measure, and boil 10 or 15 
minutes; add sugar, allowing 1 pint of sugar to each pint of juice, 
and boil. Test by dropping a little in a saucer and setting it on 
ice. If the plums are the cultivated wild ones, it is not necessary 
to use soda. Press the pulp through a sieve to take out the pits 
and skins. Allow pint for pint, of sugar and pulp. Boil the hit- 
ler half an hour, add the sugar, and boil 10 or 15 minutes longer. 
Half a pint of sugar to a pint of pulp makes a rich marmalade. 

Plum-apple jelly may be made by preparing the juice of apples 
and plums as above; a nice proportion is 1 part plums to 2 parts 
apples ; mix the juice and finish. A bushel of apples and 1 peck 
of plums make 40 pints of jelly, part crab apple alone and part 
mixed, and 16 quart jars of mixed marmalade. In making either 
kind of jell}- the fruit may be squeezed and the juice strained twice 
through Swiss muslin or crinoline, and made into jelly. The pulp 
can not then be used for marmalade. 

QUINCE JELLY. 
Hub the quinces with a cloth until perfectly smooth, cut in small 
pieces, pack tight in a kettle, pour on cold water until level with 
the fruit, and boil until very soft ; make a three-cornered flannel 
bag, pour in the fruit and drain, occasionally pressing on the top 
and sides to make the juice run more freely, taking care not to 
press hard enough to expel the pulp. There is not much need of 



HIS HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

pressing a bag made in this shape, as the weight of the fruit in the 
larger part causes the juice to flow freely at the point. To 1 pint 
of juice add 1 pint of sugar, and boil until it jellies ; pour into 
tumblers, or bowls, and finish according to general directions. If 
quinces are scarce, the parings and cores of quinces with good, 
tart apples, boiled and strained as above, make excellent jelly, and 
the quinces may be saved for preserves. 

RASPBERRY AND CURRANT JELLY. 

If currants are used with red raspberries in equal parts, the jelly 
will be firmer and the flavor will be very delicate. Look the fruit 
over carefully, wash and mash the currants, and place together in 
an oven that is hot enough to extract the juice. Stir well, strain 
without squeezing through a jell} r bag. Measure and set the juice 
on to boil. Put the sugar in the oven in shallow pans to heat, al- 
lowing equal measure of juice and sugar. When the juice has 
boiled 20 minutes, add the sugar, and stir rapidly till thoroughly 
dissolved ; let it come to a boil, take from the fire at once, and 
pour into jelly glasses. 

RHUBARB JELLY. 

Wash the stalks well, cut into small pieces, put them into a pre- 
serving kettle with water to cover them, and boil to a soft pulp ; 
strain through a jelly bag. To each pint of juice add a pound of 
sugar ; boil, skim, and when it jellies pour into jars. After the 
juice has been prepared, the juice of 1 lemon may be added to 
each 3 pints of rhubarb juice, and half the rind boiled in it for a 
few moments. 

RHUBARB AND APPLE JELLY. 

Gut the rhubarb in small pieces and cook over a slow fire, with- 
out adding an}' water ; pare, quarter and cook good, sour apples in 
a very little water ; strain the juice from both, measure, and boil 
20 minutes. Heat the sugar in the oven, allowing three-fourths 
of a pint to each pint of juice; add it to the juice, and boil 10 or 
15 minutes longer. Pour into glasses, and set it in the sun for a 
few hours. 

STRAWBERRY JELLY. 

Prepare the berries, put into a jar, and set into a kettle contain- 
ing lukewarm water. Cover and boil till the juice is expressed. 



FRUIT. 319 

Drain through a bag, measure, and boil ; allow 1 pound of sugai 
to 1 pint of juice, and heat the sugar in the oven. When the 
juice has boiled 20 minutes, add the hot sugar, boil together thor- 
oughly, and pour into glasses. 

TOMATO JELLY. 

Break ripe tomatoes into pieces and stew them in as little water 
us will keep them from burning. Pour into a jelly bag, and when 
the juice has run through add 1 pound of sugar to each pound of 
the juice. Return to the stove and boil until it jellies. Serve 
with roast meat 

'PRESERVES. 

l T ntil the modern method of canning was introduced, all fruit 
kept for instant use was prepared with an equal weight of sugar, 
and was called preserves. Genuine preserves are made by the old 
rule, a pound of sugar to a pound of fruit. Make a hot syrup by 
adding a little water to the sugar, and letting it boil. If neces- 
sary to clarify it, add just before it boils the white of an egg 
beaten lightly with two tablespoons of water ; as it begins to boil, 
skim carefully and repeat the process until]]no more scum arises 
add the fruit and cook slowly until tender. Peaches, pears, and 
quinces should be pared and halved. Small fruits should be put 
directly into the boiling syrup, and when cooked, carefully skimmed 
out, to avoid breaking. Boil down the syrup, if there is a larger 
quantity than needed, and pour over the fruit. Let the preserv- 
ing kettle be of porcelain or granite ware, use granulated sugar, 
and select perfect fruit, fresh, and just reaching a ripe condition. 
Cover the fruit when cooked, but do not set away until cold. 
When preserves are candied, set the jar in a kettle of cold water, 
and boil for an hour ; or, empty them into a crock kept for that pur- 
pose, set into the oven and boil a few minutes, watching carefully 
to prevent burning. When specks of mould appear, take off care- 
fully, and scald the preserves. 

APPLE PRESERVE. 

Take three-fourths of a pound of sugar to each pound of apples ;. 
make a syrup of the sugar and water, skim, add a few apples at a 
time, cook until they are transparent, and place in a jar. When 



o20 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

all are done, boil the syrup until thick, pour boiling hot over the 
apples, and cover closely. Well-flavored fruit, not easily broken in 
cooking, should be used. Bruised ginger-root or a sliced lemon 
may be added to the boiling syrup. 

CHERRY PRESERVE 1. 

Weigh the stoned cherries, and allow 10 pounds sugar to 12 
pounds fruit. Add the sugar to the fruit, and let stand over night. 
Then drain off the juice, boil it till it begins to thicken, add the 
cherries, and cook till thick. Keep the preserve in stone jars 
covered with buttered paper, and tie two layers of paper over them. 

CHERRY PRESERVE 2. 

Choose sour ones, — the early Richmond is good — stone them, 
and allow an amount of sugar equal to the fruit; take half the 
sugar, sprinkle over the fruit, let stand 1 hour, pour into a pre- 
serving kettle, boil slowly 10 minutes, skim out the cherries, add 
the rest of the sugar to the syrup, boil, skim, and pour over the. 
cherries ; the next daj T drain off the syrup, boil, skim if neces 
sary, add the cherries, boil 20 minutes, and seal up in small jars. 

CITRON PRESERVE. 

Pare, seed, cut in thin slices 2 inches long, weigh, and put in a 
preserving kettle with water to cover ; boil 1 hour, take out the 
melon, and to the water add 1 pound of sugar to 1 pound of melon ; 
boil until thick, replace the melon, with 2 sliced lemons to each 
pound of fruit ; boil 20 minutes, take out, boil the syrup until very 
thick, and pour it over the fruit. 

PRESERVED CITRON, ORANGE AND LEMON PEEL. 

Soak in salt and water over night, freshen in 3 waters and boil 
till tender. Make a syrup of 1 pint of water to 1 pound of sugar, 
and boil the peel in it half an hour. It may be cut in fine strips 
before cooking. 

CANDIED CITRON PEEL. 

Harden them in brine 1 week. Freshen 1 week, changing the 
water every day. Cut in quarters and scrape out the pulp. Peel, 
and boil in alum water till tender. Freshen over night. Allow 
half a pound of sugar to 1 pound of rind; cook till soft, and dry 
in the sun, letting it absorb all the syrup. The syrup may be 
flavored with lemon. 



FRUIT. 321 

ELDERBERRY PRESERVE. 

Use in the proportions of 1 pound berries, 1 pound sugar, and 
1 lemon, juice and grated rind. Make a syrup, using the lemon, 
and as little water as possible, Skim if necessary, add the berries 
and cook 20 minutes. Strain out the berries into jars or glasses, 
boil the syrup to a jell}' and pour over the fruit as much as the jar 
will hold. In 24 hours cover. If an open-mouthed receptacle, 
without a cover, is used, lay on a piece of thin paper and tie over 
the jar a cloth or thick paper cover. 

CITRON AND QUINCE PRESERVES. 

Pare and cut the citron into small pieces, boil hard in alum 
water half an hour, drain, and boil in fresh water till tender. 
Pare and core the quinces, and cut them into 8 pieces. Boil the 
parings and cores 1£ half hours in water sufficient to cover them ; 
strain off the liquid and cook the prepared quinces in it till nearly 
tender, add the citron, and to each pound of fruit add three- 
fourths pound of sugar. Boil till clear. 

FIG PRESERVE. 

Gather the fruit when fully ripe, but not cracked open ; place in 
a perforated tin bucket or wire basket, and dip for a moment into 
a deep kettle of hot and moderately strong lye or let them lie 1 
hour in lime water, and afterwards drain ; make a syrup in the pro- 
portion of 1 pound of sugar to 1 of fruit, and when the figs are 
drained, add them to the s}*rup and cook well, remove, boil down 
the syrup leaving only enough to cover the fruit. Boil all to- 
gether 1 minute, and seal while hot in glass or poi'celain jars. 

GRAPE PRESERVE. 

Pick the grapes from the stems, pop the pulps from the skins, 
doing 2 at a time, 1 in each hand between the thumb and fore- 
finger. Put the pulp in a porcelain kettle and stew gently until 
the seeds are loosened ; then strain and rub it through a sieve, 
weigh it with the skins, and to every pound allow 1 pound of sugar. 
Put the skins and juice in a kettle, cover closely, and cook slowly 
until the skins are tender ; while still boiling add the sugar and 
move the kettle back, as it must not boil again ; keep very hot for 
15 minutes, then, if the sugar is thoroughly dissolved, pour the 
fruit into cans, and screw down the covers as soon as possible. 



322 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

PRESERVED GRAPES IN BUNCHES. 

Take out the seeds with a pin, breaking the bunches as little as 
possible ; boil some clarified sugar until nearly ready to ' ' candy " ; 
add grapes to cover the bottom of the pan, without laying them 
on each other, and boil 5 minutes to extract the juice ; lay them 
in an earthen pan and pour the syrup over them ; cover with paper, 
and the next day boil the syrup for 5 minutes, skimming it well ; 
put in the grapes, let them boil 1 minute and pour them into pots. 

ORANGE PRESERVE. 

Allow equal weights of fruit and sugar. Pare one-half the 
oranges and cut the peel into shreds. Grate the yellow rind from 
the remaining oranges, remove the white inner skin and throw it 
away. Separate all the oranges into quarters, remove seeds, cut 
or chop into small pieces, drain off all the juice that leaves the 
fruit without pressing it, and pour it over the sugar. Unless the 
oranges are very juicy, a little water will be needed for the syrup. 
Place it over the fire, boil for 5 or 6 minutes, skim, add theshreded 
peel and cook 10 minutes, then the grated peel and chopped pulp, 
and boil 20 minutes. Put into jars and seal when cold. 

PEACH PRESERVE. 

Take any fine peaches that do not mash readily in cooking, pare 
carefully and remove the pits ; take sugar equal in weight to the 
fruit, or if to be sealed, three-fourths of a pound of sugar to 1 pound 
of fruit, and a half pint of water to each pound of sugar. Boil pits in 
the water, adding more as it evaporates, to keep the proportion good ; 
remove the pits, add the sugar, clarif}-, and when the scum ceases 
to rise, add the fruit, a small quantity at a time ; cook slowly 
about 10 minutes, skim out into a jar, add more, and repeat until 
all are done, and then pour the boiling syrup over all. The next 
day drain off and boil the syrup a few minutes, and pour back, re- 
peating daily until the fruit looks clear. Two or three time is gen- 
erally sufficient. The last time put up the preserves in small jars, 
and secure with paper as directed for jellies. If to be sealed in 
cans, the first boiling is sufficient, after which put into cans and 
seal immediately. The latter plan is preferable, as it takes less 
trouble and less sugar, while the natural flavor of the fruit is bet- 
ter retained. Many think peach preserves much nicer if made 



FRUIT. 323 

with maple sugar. Clingstone peaches are preserved in the same 
way whole, except that they must be put on in clear water and 
boiled whole until so tender that they may be pierced with a silver 
fork before adding the sugar. 

PEAR PRESERVE. 

Pare, cut in halves, core and weigh ; if hard, boil in water until 
tender, and use it for the syrup ; allow three-fourths of a pound of 
sugar for each pound of fruit, boil a few moments, skim, and cool ; 
when lukewarm add the pears, and boil gently until the syrup has 
penetrated them and they look clear ; some of the pieces will cook be- 
fore the rest, and must be removed; when done, take out, boil 
down the syrup a little and pour over them ; a few cloves stuck here 
and there in the pears add a pleasant flavor. Put in jars with 
glass or tin tops, and seal with putty, or plaster of Paris. A very 
nice preserve is made of pears and quinces, in the proportion of 
one-third quince to two-thirds pear. 

PINEAPPLE PRESERVE. 

The most delicious way of preserving a pineapple is in its own 
juice without using one drop of water to make the syrup. Peel 
carefully the requisite number, weigh them, and allow three-fourths 
of a pound of sugar to every pound of pineapple. Put the pineap- 
ples in a huge earthen bowl or in a stone crock, and scatter the sugar 
over them. Cover, and let them stand for 24 hours. A clear juice 
will nearly cover them then. Now take each pineapple and tear 
the pulp off the core, using a silver fork. Drain off the juice from 
the pulp and sugar into a pi*eserving kettle. Let it boil 5 minutes, 
then skim, and strain it through a fine strainer over the pineap- 
ple pulp. Let the pulp boil up in the S3 - rup once, then can it im- 
mediately, as longer boiling darkens the preserves. 

PLUM PRESERVE 1. 

For each pound of fruit allow three-fourths pound of sugar, put 
them into a stone jar or pan in alternate layers and set in a moder- 
ately warm oven for several hours, or all night if prepared at tea 
time. Drain the juice from the plums, boil and skim it. Remove 
the plums carefully to jars or cans ; pour over them the boiling 
hot syrup and seal at once. It is well to prick the plums with a 
coarse needle after washing. 



324 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 
PLUM PRESERVE 2. 

Allow equal weights of plums and sugar. Add 1 pint of water to 
2 pounds of sugar, boil the syrup, skim it, and drop in the plums 
a few at a time, after having pricked them with a coarse needle. 
Boil gently 20 minutes, remove the plums with a skimmer, put in 
jars, cover with the syrup and when cold screw on the tops, or 
cover with paper. 

PLUM SWEETMEATS. 

Select ripe damson plums, peel, stone, and halve them ; let them 
cook in their own juice until sufficiently soft to rub them through 
a sieve. Make sweet with sugar ; if spice is desired add cinnamon, 
return to the fire, cook until tender, fill the jars and seal im- 
mediately. 

QUINCE AND APPLE PRESERVE. 

Take equal weights of quinces and sugar, pare, core, leave whole 
or cut in pieces, boil till tender in water enough to cover, take out 
carefully, lay on a platter, add the sugar to the water, put in the 
fruit and boil slowly till clear, place in jars and pour the syrup over 
them. To increase the quantity without adding sugar, take one- 
half or two-thirds in weight as many fair sweet apples as there are 
quinces, pare, quarter, and core ; after removing the quinces, put 
the apples into the S3'rup, and boil until red and clear, and ten- 
der ; place the quinces and apples in a jar in alternate layers, and 
cover with syrup. For the use of parings and cores, see recipe for 
Quince Jelly. Apples alone may be preserved in the same way. 

QUINCE PRESERVE. 

Pare and core quinces, cut in quarters or eighths, measure, and 
to each quart add 2 oranges, or 1 lemon, sliced thin. Mix to- 
gether and steam until tender, but avoid breaking. Boil the skins 
and cores slowly for 2 hours in water enough to cover them. 
When the water thickens, strain, and add sugar, allowing 1 pound 
to each pound of fruit. Make a syrup, add the fruit, and simmer 
1 hour over a slow fire. Put into cans and seal. 

RHUBARB PRESERVE. 

Peel and slice the rhubarb and weigh it. Put it in a porcelain 
kettle and place it where it will heat very gradually until the juice 
flows freely. No water should be added. Then bring forward on 



FRUIT. 325 

the stove and stew gently half an hour. Dip out half the juice, 
and keep it warm. Add to the cooked fruit half a pound of sugar 
to each pound of rhubarb, with 1 teaspoon cloves and 2 teaspoons 
cinnamon. Stir well, and cook till almost as thick as jam. 
Should it be too thick, reduce with a little of the warm juice. 
Pour into glass jars, screw on the tops closely, and when cool wrap 
in thick paper and keep in a cool, dry place. 

STRAWBERRY PRESERVE. 

Allow three-fourths of a pound of sugar to each pound of straw- 
berries. Put fruit and sugar in the preserving kettle in alternate 
layers. After sufficient juice settles to cook them, set it on the 
stove, heat, and boil slowly 10 minutes. Fill stone or glass jars 
and seal. 

TOMATO PRESERVE. 

Scald and peel carefully, small, perfectly formed tomatoes, not 
too ripe, — the yellow, pear-shaped ones are best — prick with a 
needle to prevent bursting, add an equal amount of sugar by 
weight, let them stand all night, then pour the juice intjo a preserv- 
ing kettle, and boil until it is a thick syrup, clarifying with the 
white of an egg ; add tomatoes, and boil carefully until thc} T look 
transparent. A piece or two of ginger-root, or 1 lemon to a pound 
of fruit, sliced thin and cooked with the fruit, may be added. 

UNIQUE PRESERVE. 

Gather young cucumbers, 4 inches m length, and la} r in strong 
brine one week; wash, and .soak them a day and night in clear 
water, changing 4 times ; line a bell-metal kettle with vine leaves, 
and lay in the cucumbers with a little alum scattered among them ; 
fill up with clear water and cover with vine leaves, then with a 
close lid, and green as for pickles. Do not boil them. When 
well greened, drop into icewater ; when perfectly cold, wipe, and 
with a small knife slit down one side ; dig out the seeds and stuff 
with a mixture of chopped citron and seedless raisins. Sew up 
the incisions with a fine thread, weigh them, and make a syrup, al- 
lowing 1 pound of sugar for every pound of cucumbers, and a pint 
of water ; heat to a liveby boil, skim and drop in the cucumbers ; 
simmer half an hour ; take out and spread on a dish in the sun, 
boil down the syrup with a few slices of ginger-root ; when thick 



326 HOUSEKEEPER COOK HOOK. 

put iu the cucumbers again : simmer 5 minutes, and put in glass 
jars, tying them up when cold. 

WATERMELON PRESERVE. 

Pare off the outside green rind, cut in pieces 2 inches long, 
weigh, throw into cold water, skim out. add 1 heaping teaspoon 
each of salt and pulverized alum to 2 gallons of rinds, let stand 
until the salt and alum dissolve, till the kettle with cold water, and 
place on top of the stove, where it will slowly come to the boiling 
point, covering with a large plate to keep under the rinds; boil 
until they can be easily pierced with a fork, drain them from the 
water, and put into a syrup previously prepared as follows : Bruise 
and tie in a muslin bag 4 ounces ginger-root, and boil in 2 or 3 
pints of water until it is strongly flavored. At the same time boil 
in a little water until tender, in another pan. 3 or 4 sliced lemons ; 
allow three-fourths of a pound of sugar to each pound of rind, dis- 
solve the sugar in the water in which lemons and ginger have been 
boiled, having first strained it. adding more hot water if necessary : 
add the rinds and slices of lemon to this and boil slowly half to 
three-quarters of an hour. Citrons may lie prepared in the same 
way. by paring, coring and slicing, or cutting into fanciful shapes 
with tin cutters made for the purpose. 

FRUIT SAUCES. 

These are made from fresh or dried fruits, and are delicious or 
abominable, according to the way in which they are prepared. 

The most desirable utensils for the slow, steady cooking neces- 
sary to produce the best results, are pipkins of pottery, or stone- 
ware. Handled carefully they will last a long time. The best of 
them are made from the same material used for fire brick, and will 
last as long as a porcelain-lined kettle. Pipkins of soft, unglazed 
earthenware are much less expensive than the hard ones, but they 
cannot lie placed on the hottest part of the stove without danger of 
cracking. They can be used to cook stewed fruits in the oven for 
a long time, and a two-quart pipkin costs but ten cents. The 
unglazed pipkin ordinarily comes with covers, but a plate or tin 
cover must be used with the other kind. 

Apples, of any tart variety, and pears, are finer flavored, and 



SAUCE. 327 

keep better form when cooked in a pipkin in an oven than in any 
other way. The apples, if large, should be quartered as well as 
pared, and to a two-quart pipkin nearly full add one cup of sugar, 
and one cup of water. Cover, and cook slowly for an hour. Test 
with a straw, and if tender enough to be pierced, and clear, they 
are done, and their shape should be perfect. If pears are very 
sweet, add less sugar; the}* may need cooking longer than apples. 

Since canned fruit has become so generally used, it is to be re- 
gretted that much less attention has been paid to diying fruit, 
since the flavor of many fruits is better preserved by diying than 
in any other way. All fruit for drying must be perfect, of the 
best quality, and thoroughly ripe. "When dry. put up in jars and 
cover closely, or in paper bags. Paper sacks, or a barrel or box 
lined with paper, are secure against moths. The secret of keeping 
dried fruit is to exclude the light, and to keep in a dry and cool 
place. 

To stew dried fruits: Wash the fruit carefully, put in a pipkin. 
or covered earthenware dish, and barely cover with cold water. 
Let the fruit soak in a cool place several hours, or over night. In 
the morning set it on the stove, and let it come slowly to the boil- 
ing point. When this is reached put the pipkin where the fruit 
will merely simmer three or four hours. It must be covered all 
the time. An hour before it is taken up, add to about half a 
pound of fruit a cup of sugar. If there is too much liquid, set 
the jar where the heat will be sufficient to slowly boil down the 
juice to the desired quantity, or till its contents become a rich 
marmalade. If properly cooked no flavoring is needed. 

Prunes are delicious cooked in the foregoing fashion, and the 
little acid prunella is exceedingly good. Prunellas, however, re- 
quire much more sugar than prunes. There is an acid flavor about 
them which is delicious in the spring, when the appetite flags and 
sweet things are cloying to the taste. 

APPLE SAUCE — 1. 

Pare, core and cut in quarters apples that do not come to pieces 
easily, and put on to stew in cold water with plenty of sugar. 
Cover close, and stew 1 hour or more. The addition of the sugar 



328 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

at first preserves the pieces whole. If preferred soft, put through 
a sieve, and add the sugar. 

Or, make a rich syrup, and when it boils drop in the halves of 
firm, round apples sufficient to cover the bottom of the pan. Stew 
slowly, and when the pieces are tender, remove to a dish, adding 
fresh pieces if any are left. If much syrup remains boil down to 
the amount needed, pour over the apples, and serve cold. 
apple sauce — 2. 

Pare, core and quarter tart apples, and fill a pudding dish with 
alternate layers of apples and sugar; pour on a little water, cover 
closely, and cook them in the oven or over a slow fire. Or, pare, 
core and slice 4 large, tart apples, cook with a very little water, 
and when tender add 1 cup of sugar, and a little extract of winter- 
green. 

DRIED-APPLE SAUCE 1. 

Put in a preserving kettle 1 quart of washed dried apples, with 
twice their bulk of water. Soak them 10 or 12 hours, add sugar 
to taste, and stew soft. Flavor with orange, lemon, or spices. 

DRIED-APPLE SAUCE — 2. 

Look over, wash thoroughly in clean, warm water ; drain, cover 
with cold soft water, place on the back of the stove, cook slowly 
4 or 5 hours, mash fine, sift, sweeten, and season with cinnamon. 
Never add sugar until a short time before removing from the 
stove, otherwise the fruit will be toughened and hardened. Follow 
the same directions in preparing dried peaches, only do not mash, 
or season highly. Cook in a porcelain kettle without stirring. A 
few raisins improve both apple and peach sauce. 

CRANBERRY SAUCE. 

Pick over and wash the cranberries. Add half a cup of water 
to 1 quart of berries. Cover, and cook over a slow fire. Stir fre- 
quently, and mash the fruit. When all are mashed, and the pulp 
smooth, take from the fire and add sugar to taste. Dissolve the 
sugar and pour into a mould wet with cold water. Or, put through 
a coarse sieve before filling the mould. 

GREEN CURRANT SAUCE. 

Stem them carefully, wash, and cook in a very little water, as 
they are quite juicy. When they begin to boil, add sugar gener- 
ously, and cook 5 minutes longer. Serve cold. 



sauce. 329 

gooseberry sauce. 
Wash the green berries, cover with water, and stew till soft. 
Sweeten, and cook a few minutes before taking from the stove. 

GRAPE SAUCE. 

Pick over the grapes carefully before washing, add a little water 
and stew slowly. When partly cooked add the sugar. Grapes 
should be put through a colander to remove the seeds. Cherries 
may be cooked in like manner, also berries too green to eat raw, or 
so ripe that there is danger of spoiling. 

DRIED-PEACH SAUCE. 

Wash the peaches thoroughly in warm water, and cook slowly in 
water sufficient to cover them, until nearly done ; remove them 
from the fire, and skim them into a pan of cold water, t-hen slip the 
skins off with the fingers. This is easily done. When skinned, 
return them to the water, and cook gentty with sugar until well 
done. 

STEWED PEARS. 

Take large, firm, juicy pears. Peel, but do not stem them. 
Put them in a preserving kettle with a little cold water and cook 
them slowly until tender. Remove them to a dish, and make a 
rich syrup of the water, adding a little preserved ginger or a few 
slices of lemon while cooking. Pour the syrup over the pears, 
and cool. Apples are nice cooked, in this way. 

STEWED PRUNES. 

Soak the prunes 3 or 4 hours in just enough water to cover them 
when swelled to their natural size ; add sugar to taste, and stew 
carefully until nearly dry. When wanted for use, cover with good, 
sweet cream and serve. 

BAKED RHUBARB. 

Wash, peel and cut into inch pieces ; place in a covered baking 
dish, sprinkling sugar on each la3*er, using about 1 cup to 1 quart 
Put in the oven and bake 1£ hours. 

STEWED RHUBARB. 

Make a rich syrup by adding sugar to the water in which long 
strips of orange peel have been boiled until tender, drop into it a sin- 
gle layer of pieces of rhubarb 3 inches long, and stew gently until 
clear. When done, remove and cook another layer. Use 1 orange 
to 2£ pounds rhubarb. 



330 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

MISCELLANEOUS. 

AMBROSIA. 

6 sweet oranges, 1 grated pineapple, 

Powdered sugar, 1 grated cocoanut. 

Peel, slice and seed the oranges, taking out as much of the core 

as possible, pare and remove the eyes from the pineapple before 

grating, and fill a dish with alternated layers of orange, pineapple 

and cocoanut, sprinkling sugar over each. Or, use 6 oranges, 6 

lemons and 2 cocoanuts, or only oranges and cocoanuts. 

BAKED APPLES 1. 

Cut out the blossom and stem ends of tart apples, fiU'with sugar, 
bake till soft, and serve warm or cold. Or, pare and core tart 
apples ; lay them in an earthen dish with a very little water. Fill 
the cavity of each apple with sugar, a bit of butter, a slice of lemon 
or a sprinkling of cinnamon. Cover and bake slowly 1 hour. 
Serve with plain or whipped cream. Use 1 cup sugar, 1 table- 
spoon butter, 1 cup water, to 3 pints apples. If sweet apples are 
used, bake twice as long, and omit the cinnamon, using half the 
quantity of sugar. 

BAKED APPLES 2. 

Wash and prick the skins of nice, sweet apples. Place in a pan 
with a very little water. Bs ke 2 hours in a moderate oven, bast- 
ing with the juice 2 or 3 tines. Sprinkle with a little sugar 15 
minutes before taking from the oven. Let them remain covered 
until cold, and serve with cream. 

BAKED APPLES, PEACHES OR PEARS. 

Wipe the fruit, and put iuto a jar with sugar between the layers, 
covering them with cold water. Bake 3 or 4 hours closely cov- 
ered in a slow oven. Add half the quantity of water and sugar to 
sweet apples. If the pears are large bake 5 or 6 hours, and they 
may be flavored with stick cinnamon, or lemons cut in slices, or 
both. Pare peaches before baking them. 

APPLE COMPOTE 1. 

Select apples that will cook well without breaking ; pare, core, 
and cook till three-fourths done in a S3 T rup made with 1 pound 
sugar and 1 pint water. Skim out of the syrup and put in a hot 
oven for a few minutes ; boil the syrup while the apples are in the 



FRUIT. 331 

oven ; then dip each apple in the syrup, place in a nice dish, and 
poor the syrup over them. Cover with a meringue and brown 
slightly. Or, serve cold, with cream or custard. 

APPLE C0M.POTE — 2. 

1 pound pared and cored apples, X box gelatine, 

% pound sugar, Whipped cream. 

Make a syrup of the sugar with enough water to dissolve it. 
When it comes to a boil put in the fruit and cook until clear but 
whole. Remove from the fire to a glass bowl. Have the gelatine 
ready, dissolved in half a cup of hot water, stir at once into the hot 
syrup, and strain it over the apples. When cold, heap whipped 
cream over it. Sliced lemous may be added to the syrup, and a 
slice of the lemon served on each apple. 

FRIED APPLES. 

Quarter and core apples without paring ; heat the frying pan with 
butter in it and lay the apples in the pan, skin side down, sprinkle 
with a little sugar, and, when nearly done, turn and brown thor- 
oughly. Or, cut in slices across the core, and fry like pancakes, 
turning when brown. Serve with sugar sprinkled over them. 

ICED APPLES. 

Pare and core 12 large apples, fill with sugar and a little butter 
and nutmeg ; bake until nearly done, let cool, and remove to an- 
other plate, if it can be done without breaking them ; if not, pour 
off the juice, cover them with icing, and brown lightly. Serve with 
cream. 

JELLIED APPLES. 

Pare, core and slice 8 sour apples, and put them in layers into 
an earthen baking dish, with brown sugar and cinnamon. Allow 
at least 1 large cup sugar and 4 tablespoons water to the apples. 
Cover with a buttered plate and bake very slowly 2 or 3 hours. 
Let it stand until cold. When turned out it should be a firm mass, 
with the red slices showing through the clear jelly. 

FRIED BANANAS. 

Peel and slice lengthwise, fry in butter, sprinkle with sugar, and 
serve. The bananas must be ripe, but firm, and the red variety is 
preferable. 



332 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

BANANA COMPOTE. 

A compote of red bananas served with whipped cream is a nice 
luncheon dish. Make a syrup with a large cup of sugar and a 
pint of water. Let the syrup come to the boiling point and boil 
rapidly 10 minutes. Pour it over as many red bananas, cut in thin 
slices, as it will cover. When the syrup is cold serve the bananas 
with whipped cream. Many fresh fruits are much more delicious 
sweetened with a cooked syrup like this than with raw sugar. 
Oranges are especially nice cut up and served in this way. For 
oranges, flavor the syrup with a little grated orange peel. 

RASPBERRY FLOAT. 

1 cup sugar, 4 eggs, whites, 

1 pint red raspberries. 
Crush the raspberries, they must be very ripe, and add half the 
sugar. Beat the eggs to a stiff froth, and add the remainder of 
the sugar. Strain the raspberries through a fine sieve, and beat 
the juice or pulp into the egg and sugar, until so stiff it will stand 
in peaks or a pyramid. 

STRAWBERRY FLOAT. 

1 cup sugar, 3 eggs, whites, 

3 pints ripe strawberries. 
Cut the strawberries into small pieces, add the sugar, stir to- 
gether, and let stand an hour. Beat the eggs with 3 tablespoons 
powdered sugar until stiff, stir into the strawberries, and serve at 
once. 

FLORIDA GRAPE FRUIT. 

The fruit stores display a clear, lemon-colored fruit, about three 
times as large as an orange, and bearing a general resemblance to 
it. Its flavor is acid, but its juicy pulp is inclosed in a tough, 
white membrane, of intensely bitter taste ; when this membrane is 
removed, the fruit is delicious. To prepare it for the table, cut 
the skin in sections and peel it off ; separate the sections, and hold- 
ing each one by the ends, break it open from the center, disclosing 
the pulp ; tear this out of the bitter white membrane which covers 
the sections, carefully removing every part of it ; keep the pulp as 
unbroken as possible, and put it into a deep dish with a plentiful 
sprinkling of fine sugar. Let it stand 3 or 4 hours, or over night, 
and then use the fruit. It is refreshing and wholesome, especially 



FRUIT. 333 

for a bilious temperament. It ma}- be eaten before breakfast with- 
out sugar. 

ORANGES IN JELLY. 

Boil small oranges in water until tender, and make a syrup of 
the water, and sugar in the proportion of half a pound to 1 pound 
fruit. Quarter the oranges, and cook in the S3*rup over a slow 
fire until clear. Add gelatine dissolved in cold water, and boil a 
little longer. Take out the oranges into a deep glass dish, and 
strain the jelly over them. When cold serve with plain or whipped 
cream. Lemons may be prepared in the same manner. 

PEACHES AND CREAM. 

Pare and slice the peaches just before serving. If they cannot 
be served immediately, cover with glass and set in a cool place. 
The air causes a change of color. Serve with powdered sugar and 
cream. Strawberries are served in the same way. 

PEACH CUSTARD. 

Equal parts rich, sliced peaches, green corn pulp and water. 
Sweeten to the taste, and bake 20 minutes. 

FROZEN PEACHES. 

Pare and divide large, fresh, ripe peaches, sprinkle with sugar, 
freeze, and serve after standing 1 hour. Sprinkle sugar over them 
and cover with whipped cream. 

PEACH MERINGUE. 

12 peaches, 3 eggs, 

1 cup sugar, 1 tablespoon butter, 

1 quart milk, 2 tablespoons cornstarch. 

Mix the cornstarch with a little milk, and scald the rest in a 
custard kettle. When it boils, add the moistened starch, stir 
constantly till it thickens, remove from the fire, add the butter, 
cool, add the yolks of eggs beaten thoroughly with half the sugar, 
and mix well till light and creamy. Select ripe, juicy peaches, 
pare and halve them, and put in a buttered baking dish in layers, 
sprinkling with the rest of the sugar. Pour over them the custard 
and bake 20 minutes, when cover with the whites of eggs beaten 
to a stiff froth with 3 tablespoons powdered sugar, and brown. 
Serve hot with a rich sauce, or cold with sugar and cream. 



334 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

PEACH PYRAMID. 

12 peaches, 1 pound sugar, 

3 lemons, 1 ounce gelatine. 

Select fresh, firm, ripe peaches ; pare, halve and stone them ; 
crack half the stones and blanch the kernels ; make a clear syrup 
and put into it when boiling slowly the peaches and kernels ; cook 
gently 20 minutes, take out the peaches and kernels ; add the 
strained juice of the lemons, and the gelatine dissolved in cold 
water, to the syrup and boil 1 minute. Fill a mould one-third full 
of the syrup, let it cool, add half the peaches and a little jelly ; 
let this stand till partly solid, when add the rest of the peaches and 
the jelly. Set on ice. 

BAKED PEARS. 

Pare and core 12 pears. Fill with brown sugar, put in a covered 
dish, cover with water, add a little more sugar and a stick of cin- 
namon, and bake until tender in a slow oven. Or, omit the sugar 
and add 1 lemon cut in slices and half as much molasses as water. 
Bake till tender. 

PEARS AND CREAM. 

Select ripe fruit ; pare, slice, and sprinkle lightly with powdered 
sugar. Cover with whipped cream just before serving. 

» PEAR COMPOTE. 

8 large pears, 1 ounce gelatine, 

1 pound sugar, 2 lemons, juice, 

1 pint pear-water, 1 lemon, rind. 

Pare and quarter the pears, and cook in a very little water in a 
covered kettle. Make a hot sjrup, add the juice and rind of 
lemons and the pears ; cook a few minutes and remove to a mould 
dipped in cold water. Add the gelatine, dissolved in cold water, 
to the syrup, boil 1 minute, and strain over the fruit. When cold, 
turn into a dish and serve with whipped cream around the base. 

BAKED QUINCES. 

Pare, quarter and seed ripe quinces ; stew the parings in clear 
water until tender. Make a syrup with the water and 1 cup of sugar 
to 8 quinces and pour it over the quinces, which should be placed in 
a covered earthen baking dish. Bake slowty until a straw will pierce 
them. Take out the quinces, and if there is more juice than needed 
boil down to the desired amount, then pour it over the quinces. 



FRUIT. 335 

Serve when cold with plain or whipped cream. Or, wash, rub the 
skins hard, and core ripe quinces, fill with sugar, and bake in a 
closely-covered jar with a little water in a moderate oven for sev- 
eral hours. Serve with cream. 

ORANGED STRAWBERRIES. 

Place a layer of strawberries in a deep dish ; cover them thickly 
with powdered sugar ; use alternate layers of berries and sugar as 
desired. Pour over them orange juice in the proportion of 3 
oranges to 1 quart of berries. Let stand an hour, and just before 
serving sprinkle with pounded ice. 

STRAWBERRIES WITH WHIPPED CREAM. 

Prepare in layers as above, cover with 1 pint of cream, the 
whites of 3 eggs, and a cup of powdered sugar, whipped together 
and flavored with strawberry juice. 

SIMPLE FRUIT SALADS. 

These are made from ripe currants sprinkled with sugar, or cur- 
rants and raspberries with sugar, or sliced oranges and bananas 
with sugar and moistened with lemon juice. Apple salad is made 
with tart, mellow apples, pared and sliced, to which is added sugar 
and the juice of oranges or lemons. The seeds of apples, lemons 
and oranges must be carefully taken out from the preparation. A 
simple peach salad is made in the proportion of 2 peaches to 1 
apple, cut into small pieces; place in alternate laj'ers, sprinkle 
thickly with sugar, set on ice for 2 hours, and sprinkle with 
pounded ice 1 hour before serving. 

FRUIT SALAD. 

1 pineapple, 6 bananas, 

1 pint strawberries, 6 oranges, 

2 lemons. 

Grate the pineapple, peel and slice the bananas, peel, seed and 
take out the white membrane of the oranges, and pick over the 
strawberries. Arrange these fruits in layers in a glass dish, add- 
ing considerable sugar to them, and squeeze the juice of the lemons 
over all. Set on ice 3 hours before serving. 



ICE CREAM AND ICES. 

THIS "perfection of summer refreshment" is peculiarly an 
American delicacy, though attainable in some form all over 
Europe. 

The two divisions of ice cream are the American, or Philadel- 
phian, and Neapolitan ; the former is more of a cream, the latter 
partakes of the nature of a custard. 

The essentials for making good ice cream are the best cream, 
ripe, juicy fruit, when fruit is used, and granulated sugar. What 
is called ''double" cream, or that skimmed from milk after stand- 
ing twenty hours, should be used, as it whips without any waste. 
Cream from milk standing one-half the time is called "single," 
and is preferable for coffee. 

Milk is frequently used in cheaper or fanc} T creams with eggs, 
cornstarch, arrow-root or gelatine. A difference of opinion exists 
as to heating the cream, some claiming that the raw cream has a 
harsh taste, is more likely to turn, and does not freeze smoothly. 
Add the flavoring after the first freezing. As freezing increases 
the bulk of the composition, do not have the freezer more than 
three-quarters full. 

When eggs are to be substituted for cream, increase ine amount 
of sugar used, in the proportion of one-half cup to six eggs. Too 
much sugar hinders freezing. The eggs must be perfectly fresh or 
the cream is injured. Add a little salt or grated lemon peel to 
the milk to correct its flat taste. Never cook fruit flavors with 
cream. To avoid acidity or a fermented taste, use only perfect, 
ripe, fresh fruit. The genuine flavors, though expensive, are eco- 
nomical, as it requires very little to be effective. 

General directions for freezing : Use the best freezer, and have 
all things in readiness. Allow ten pounds of ice and two quarts 
of rock salt to a gallon freezer. Put the ice in a coffee sack and 

336 



ICE CREAM. 337 

pound very fine for the first freezing. Set the cylinder in the tub, 
and pour in the cream, which should be very cold. Cover, and 
turn the crank to see if it works right. Put in ice to the depth of 
three inches, then one inch of salt, and fill the tub with alternate 
layers, finishing with a layer of ice. Turn the crank slowly and 
steadily, but do not freeze the cream too fast. In twenty or thirty 
minutes unscrew the crank, wipe off the cover, and remove the 
dasher. Scrape down the cream from the sides with a broad 
knife, a wooden one is best, and beat hard several minutes. This 
makes the cream smooth. Replace the cover, plug the dasher 
hole, taking great care that no salt creeps in. Drain off the water 
and repack with coarser ice and salt. Cover with a thick piece of 
carpet and set e away in a cool place. Or, pack in moulds, and 
place in pails filled with layers of salt and ice. Cover and set 
away. Wrap a hot cloth around the mould for a few moments 
and the cream will turn out readily. Should the ice in the tub 
melt rapidly while freezing, drain off the water, add more ice and 
salt, see that it is packed solidly, and continue the work of freez- 
ing. If any cream or ice is left in the freezer, pour it out into 
porcelain-lined pans, and keep in a cold place to use again. 

Great care should be used in keeping the freezer sweet and 
clean. 

ice cream — 1. 

2 quarts cream, 1 pound sugar, 

Flavoring. 

This is the regular proportion for pure ice cream, and all creams 
made on this basis, without milk or eggs, are called Philadelphia 
creams. It may be frozen without heating, or the cream may be 
heated in a double boiler. Sift in the sugar when the water boils. 
Cool and freeze, add the flavoring just before freezing and pack- 
ing. In all the recipes, follow the general directions for freezing 
and packing, unless others are given. 

ICE CREAM — 2 

x pint cream, K pound sugar, 

1 pint milk, 3 eggs, 

Flavoring. 
Scald the milk, and add the sugar beaten with the eggs, or 
the yolks of eggs, and 1 white. Beat thoroughly together, strain, 



338 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

add the cream, and cook until it thickens, stirring constantly. 
Cool, flavor and freeze. Or, beat the yolks of 2 eggs and 1 table- 
spoon cornstarch or arrow-root with the sugar, and add to the 
milk. Strain and cook. When smoothly thickened, remove and 
cool. Whip the whites, beat into the cream, and add to .the com- 
position, with the flavoring, when it is ready to freeze. This recipe 
requires more flavoring than pure cream. 
ice cream — 3. 

1 pint milk, 1 saltspoon salt, 

1 quart cream, 1 tablespoon flavoring, 

2 cups sugar, 2 tablespoons flour, 

2 eggs. 

Scald the milk in a double boiler. Beat the eggs, flour, and 1 
cup of sugar together till light, and then turn into the milk. Stir 
constantly till thickened, and then occasionally. Cook 20 min- 
utes. When cold add the second cup of sugar, the cream and the 
flavoring, strain into the freezer and freeze. 

ICE CREAM WITHOUT A FREEZER. 

1 quart milk, 1% pounds sugar, 

\% quarts cream, 8 eggs. 

Make a custard of the above ingredients, according to directions 
for Custard Ice Cream, adding the beaten whites of eggs, the 
cream and vanilla just before freezing. Chill the mixture, pour 
into a pail with a tightly-fitting cover, and place on a flat block of 
ice 2 inches thick on the bottom of the packing pail or tub. Pack 
in pounded ice and salt, ice 2 parts, salt 1 part. Beat the cream 
in' the freezer 5 minutes. Put on the top, cover with thick cloths 
and turn steadily until the water begins to rise. Uncover, scrape 
the cream thoroughly from the bottom and sides of the pail and 
beat until the custard is a smooth, half-frozen paste. Cover, drain 
off the brine, fill up" the tub with ice and salt, and repeat the 
former process. Continue in this way until the cream is frozen. 
At the last opening see that the cream is higher in the center than 
at the sides. Put on the cover, ice, salt, and an old thick 
blanket, and leave it some hours, replenishing with ice and salt, 
and draining off the water when necessary. All creams frozen in 
this manner should be partly custard. 



ICE CREAM. 339 

BANANA ICE CREAM. 

3 quarts cream, \% pounds sugar, 

3 tablespoons gelatine, 6 large bananas, 

s Lemon juice. 

, Heat 1 quart of cream, add the sugar, and gelatine ; stir till 

dissolved, and strain. When cool stir in the bananas, thoroughly 

mashed or chopped fine, and the lemon juice, then freeze. Or, 

substitute 1 quart of milk and 4 eggs for 1 quart of cream, cook 

the custard till it thickens and proceed as with full cream recipe. 

BISQUE ICE CREAM. 

3 quarts cream, . 2 ounces macaroons, 

1 pound sugar, 2 ounces kisses, 

4 lady fingers, 3 teaspoons vanilla. 

Roll very fine, or crush and sift through a sieve, the kisses, lady 
fingers and macaroons. Heat 1 quart of cream in a double boiler, 
then add the sugar, stirring until dissolved. Remove from the 
fire and cool. Add the rest of the cream, put into the freezer, and 
when nearly stiff, stir in the sifted cakes and vanilla. A richer 
coloring is given by adding 2 teaspoons caramel. Beat until 
smooth, and follow directions for freezing and packing. The 
cream must stand at least 2 hours before using. This makes one 
gallon of cream when frozen. 

BOSTON BROWN-BREAD ICE CREAM. 

2 quarts cream, \% pounds sugar, 

10 eggs, % pound brown bread. 

Roll and sift the dried toasted bread. Put 1 quart of cream 
into a custard-kettle, heat, and add the sugar and well-beaten eggs. 
Strain, and stir constantly until it thickens smoothly. Remove 
from the fire, add the remainder of the cream, cool and freeze. 
When nearly frozen beat in the powdered bread, and finish accord- 
ing to general directions. The eggs and one-half pound of sugar 
may be omitted. Biscuit Cream is made b} r substituting three- 
quarters of a pound of stale sponge cake for the bread. 

CARAMEL ICE CREAM. 

Make a foundation as for Ice Cream — 3. Put 1 scant cup of 
sugar into a frying pan and stir over the fire till the sugar turns 
liquid and brown, add this to the hot custard, in place of 1 cup of 
sugar. 



340 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

CHOCOLATE ICE CREAM 1. 

2 quarts cream, 1% pounds sugar, 

1 pint milk, % pound grated chocolate, 

Vanilla. 
Use the unsweetened chocolate. Heat the milk and make a 
smooth paste with the chocolate. Add the sugar, mix thorough^ 
with the cream, flavor, and freeze according to directions. Or, 
scrape 2 ounces of Baker's chocolate, and cook till smooth and 
glossy with 2 tablespoons sugar and 2 of boiling water. Add this 
to the custard or cream while in the double boiler. When cold, 
add 1 tablespoon vanilla. 

CHOCOLATE ICE CREAM 2. 

1 quart rich cream, 3 eggs, 

1 pint new milk, 1 pound sugar, 

6 tablespoons grated chocolate. 

Scald the milk, and add the sugar, the eggs well beaten, and the 
chocolate rubbed smooth in a little milk. Beat well, place over 
the fire and heat until it thickens a little, stirring constantly, 
strain, add a tablespoon thin, dissolved gelatine, and, when cold, 
place in the freezer ; when half frozen add the cream, well whipped, 
and finish. 

To make a block of chocolate and vanilla : freeze the creams 
separately, and before packing fill a mould with two or three layers 
of cream according to taste. Pack the mould in ice and salt, and 
let it stand at least 2 hours. 

COFFEE ICE CREAM 1. 

2 quarts cream, 1 pound sugar, 

14 pound ground Java and Mocha coffee. 
Put into a double boiler 1 quart of cream and the coffee. Let 
it stand 15 minutes in hot, not boiling water, strain and squeeze 
to obtain the strength, and stir in the sugar. When cold, add the 
rest of the cream and freeze. 

COFFEE ICE CREAM 2. 

1 quart cream, 1% pounds sugar, 

1 quart milk, 8 eggs, 

1 quart strong, clear, hot coffee. 
Heat the milk, and add the sugar and beaten eggs, ( 8 yolks and 
2 whites may be used) strain, add coffee, cook till thick, and cool. 
Add the cream just before freezing. 



ICE CREAM. 341 

CUSTARD ICE CREAM. 

1 quart cream, IK pounds sugar, 

1 quart milk, 12 eggs, 

Lemon and vanilla. 
Heat the milk in a custard kettle ; beat the eggs with the sugar, 
or omit the whites of 10, add the milk, strain, and cook until thick- 
ened, stirring constantly. When cold, add lemon and vanilla either 
in powder, or the vanilla extract, and a little grated lemon peel, and 
freeze. 

FRUIT ICE CREAMS. 
1 quart cream, 1 pound sugar, 

1 quart pulp or juice. 
Sprinkle the fruit with some of the sugar and let it stand 1 
hour ; mash, and strain through a hair sieve ( a wire one will affect 
the color) add the remainder of the sugar, and beat into the cream 
previously whipped. Whole berries, sweetened, and whipped cream 
ma}' be added just as the cream is beginning to set, in the propor- 
tion of 1 cup of berries and 1 pint of whipped cream to 3 pints 
of the frozen mixture. Canned berries may be used in the same 
wa}\ A pint of berries or peaches, cut fine, added to a quart of 
ordinarj* ice cream, while in process of freezing, makes a delicious 
fruit ice cream. If milk is mixed with the cream it must be fresh 
and cold. For apple ice cream the pulp of baked instead of raw 
apples may be used and flavored to taste. 

FRUIT FRAPPES. 

Line a mould with vanilla ice cream, fill the center with fresh 
berries, or fruit cut in slices, cover with ice cream, close the 
mould, and set in the freezer for half an hour, with salt and ice 
well packed around it. The fruit must be chilled, but not frozen. 
Strawberries and ripe peaches are delicious thus prepared. 

KENTUCKY CREAM. 

Make a half gallon of rich boiled custard, sweeten to taste, add 
2 tablespoons gelatine dissolved in a half cup of cold milk ; let the 
custard cool, put it in the freezer, and when half frozen, add 1 
pound raisins, 1 pint strawberry preserves, and 1 quart whipped 
cream ; beat well, and finish freezing. Blanched almonds or 
grated cocoanut are nice additions. Currants may be used, or 
citron, chopped fine. 



342 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

LEMON ICE CREAM. 

3 quarts cream, 3 or more pounds sugar, 

12 lemons. 

Squeeze the lemons, make the juice quite thick with the sugar, 

stir the cream into it very slowly, and freeze. Orange ice cream 

is prepared in the same way, using less sugar. 

ORANGE ICE CREAM. 
2 pounds sugar, 12 oranges, juice, 

2 quarts cream, 12 eggs, yolks, 

2 lemons, juice. 
Heat the cream in a double boiler, add the eggs beaten with 
one-half the sugar, stir into the cream, strain, and thicken over the 
fire. Set away to cool. Put the rest of the sugar into the juice 
and add a little grated peel of both oranges and lemons. Make 
into a boiling syrup. Strain and cool on ice before adding to the 
cream. Freeze. 

PINEAPPLE ICE CREAM. 

2 quarts cream, 2 pounds sugar, 

2 large pineapples. 
Select ripe pineapples, pare, remove the eyes, grate, and mix 
with half the sugar. Let stand until it dissolves. Heat the rest 
of the sugar with 1 quart of cream, let cool, then add the remain- 
ing cream. When the cream is half frozen, add the pineapple, 
into which the juice of 2 lemons and oranges may be stirred, and 
finish the freezing. 

PISTACHIO ICE CREAM. 

3 quarts cream, 1%. pounds sugar, 
12 eggs, yolks, 3 eggs, whites, 

% pound shelled pistachio nuts. 
Blanch the nuts, and pound, when washed, into a fine paste. A 
little rose-water will help in the process. Heat the cream, sift in 
the sugar, and when cool add the paste. Pistachio cream must be 
colored a pale green. Spinach coloring ma} T be used. It may 
be flavored with vanilla. Freeze according to directions. Al- 
monds may be used, also filberts or English walnuts. 

STRAWBERRY ICE CREAM. 
2 quarts cream, 3 quarts berries, 

2 pounds sugar. 
Sprinkle the berries with half the sugar, let stand 2 hours, and 



mci : 



ICE CREAM. 343 

strain through a coarse towel or fine sieve. Heat 1 quart of 
cream, in which dissolve the sugar, and when cool add the remain- 
der of the cream. Freeze according to directions, adding the fruit 
juice when half frozen, and, if liked, 1 cup of whole sweetened 
berries. Or, mash 1 quart of berries, add 1 pound of sugar, beat 
well, and stir into 1 quart of fresh, thick cream. Freeze. 

TEA ICE CREAM. 
1 quart cream, % pound sugar, 

1 tablespoon tea, 5 eggs. 

Infuse the tea 5 minutes in 1 pint of warm cream. Strain 
through a hair sieve, add the beaten yolks of eggs, and the sugar|; 
return to the double boiler to heat. Cool, mix with the beaten 
whites of eggs, and the rest of the cream ; freeze. 

TUTTI FRUTTI ICE CREAM. 

Make a rich ice cream, and when half frozen add equal parts of 
half a dozen kinds of ciystalized fruits, and one variety of nuts, 
or preserved peaches, plums, cherries, apricots, with other home- 
made preserves, all cut in small pieces and drained of their syrup, 
in the proportion of 1 pound of fruit to 2 quarts of cream. If too 
sweet a little lemon juice may be used. 

VANILLA ICE CREAM. 

Use recipe for Ice Cream No. 1, or the following : 

1 quart cream, >£ box gelatine, 

1 quart milk, ( 2 tablespoons extract va- 

1 pound sugar, -j nilla, or 1 tablespoon 

8 eggs, yolks, ( powder. 

Heat the milk, and stir into the well-beaten eggs and sugar. 
Return to the custard kettle, and stir while thickening slight^ ; 
add the gelatine, dissolved by standing 1 hour in a little water, stir 
until well mixed, and strain. Chill on ice, and pour into the 
freezer. When nearly frozen add the flavoring, and the cream 
whipped and chilled, and finish freezing. Cover and let stand 2 
hours. 

WHITE ICE CREAM. 

2 quarts cream, 1% pounds sugar, 

9 eggs, whites, 2 eggs, yolks. 

Prepare as for Ice Cream No. 1, adding the eggs, beaten sepa- 
rately, with a little sugar whipped in at the last. Mix and freeze. 



344 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

WATER ICES. 

The true ice is made of water, fruit juices, sugar and flavors; 
but as many object to its hard, gritty taste, there is a growing ten- 
dency to soften the composition with the well-beaten whites of 
eggs, and a larger amount of sugar. More sugar and juice is re 
quired if the ice is to be served alone than with an ice cream. 
The water and sugar to be used in the ice should be made into a 
syrup, boiling it, and skimming to clear. Strain while hot, and 
chill before adding the flavoring or fruit juices. Freeze in a simi- 
lar manner to ice cream, but allow from fifteen to twenty minutes 
more time. Fruit jellies may be used instead of fruit juices. Dissolve 
in hot water, and add when cool to the mixture in the freezer. Use 
twice as much jelly as fruit syrup. Ordinarily four lemons or 
oranges will yield a gill of juice ; one pineapple, a pint ; and three 
pints of the pulp of raspberries, peaches, strawberries, one pint. 
Lemon juice is added usually to apricot, orange, pineapple, rasp- 
berry and strawberry ices. 

Water ices lose their coldness much sooner than ice creams, and 
therefore greater care must be taken to protect them from warmth 
and evaporation. Ices to be eaten at noon should be frozen in 
the morning, and early in the afternoon for evening use. 

FROZEN FRUITS. 

1 pound mashed fruit, 1 pint sugar, 
3 eggs, whites, 1 pint water. 

The fruit should be cut rather fine, or mashed smooth, and when 
the syrup is cool add to the fruit and freeze. With apricots and 
peaches, a few kernels may be mashed fine and cooked in the 
syrup. With sweet fruits like raspberries and strawberries add a 
little lemon juice. The use of the whites of eggs is simply a mat- 
ter of taste. In freezing, care should be taken to keep the mix- 
ture smooth, as the fruit has a tendency to form lumps. 

FRUIT ICES. 

2 quarts water, 3 pounds sugar 

1 quart fruit juice. 

These proportions hold good for all variet} 7 of ices, except that 
the sugar may be increased or diminished, according to the acidity 



ICE CREAM. 345 

of the fruit. Where the strained pulp of berries is used follow 
these proportions : 

1 quart water, 1 pound sugar, 

1 quart soft pulp. 

The beaten whites of 4 eggs may be added to the first, and of 2 
eggs to the second recipe, when the mixture is half frozen. Freeze 
as for ice cream, allowing more time. Ices made from apricots, 
cherries, peaches and plums are improved by cooking a few of the 
mashed kernels in the syrup. 

CITRON ICE. 

Use recipe for Lemon Ice, omitting the oranges, and add to the 
syrup one-half cup fine sliced candied citron, just before taking 
from the fire. Let it stand some time before straining. Follow 
directions for freezing in Lemon Ice. 

LEMON OR ORANGE ICE. 

1 quart water, IK pounds sugar, 

6 lemons and 2 oranges, 4 eggs, whites. 

Make a sjTup and put in the grated rind of 3 lemons, and the 
oranges, and boil 5 minutes. When cool add the juice from 
lemons and oranges. Strain and freeze. When stiff add the 
whites beaten to a stiff froth, beat in thoroughly, and pack, letting 
it stand 2 hours. 

For orange ice, use 6 oranges and 2 lemons, and proceed as in 
lemon ice. The whites of eggs may be omitted. 

CURRANT, RASPBERRY AND STRAWBERRY ICE. 

Mash 2 quarts of berries with 2 pounds of sugar ; let stand an 
hour or more, squeeze in a cloth, pressing out all the juice ; add 
an equal measure of water, and when half frozen, add the beaten 
whites of eggs in the proportion of 3 eggs to a quart. 

TUTTI FRUTTI ICE. 

Make a strong water ice, and to 2 quarts use 1 pound of 6 
kinds of crystalized fruits and 1 variety of nuts, or 1 pound of 
several kinds of preserved fruits cut in small bits and drained 
from their syrup. When the ice is ready for the mould, put in 1 
quart of ice, add the fruit in a smooth la} r er, and cover with the 
remaining ice. Pack and let stand 2 hours. 



346 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

SHERBETS. 
1 pint fruit juice, 1 pound sugar, 

1 pint water, 3 eggs, whites. 

These proportions are good for all varieties of fruit juices, and 
many nice combinations ma}* be made. Currant sherbet is im- 
proved by adding raspberries in equal proportions. In lemon or 
orange sherbets soak the grated rinds of the fruit 10 minutes, in 
the boiling water to be used for syrup, and strain over the sugar. 
Prepare as for ices, and freeze according to directions. Ices or 
sherbets are used in layers with ice cream in moulds, and are con- 
sidered excellent. In making orange sherbet the lemons may be 
omitted 

PINEAPPLE SHERBET. 

1 quart grated pineapple pulp, \% pounds sugar, 

2 lemons, juice, 1 pint water, 

2 eggs, whites. 
Dissolve the sugar and bring to a boil, skim if not clear, and 
cool. Add to the pulp when cold, stir in the lemon juice, and 
freeze. Beat the whites of eggs thoroughly, and add to the ice 
when nearly frozen. The lemon juice may be omitted. 



MEATS. 

THE flesh of animals, poultry and game goes under the general 
term meat. In some localities the steak of large fish is 
erroneously classed under that name. Meats are made up of sev- 
eral substances — fibrine, gelatine, fat, albumen, and the juiceof flesh. 
The real color of fibrine is white, taking its pinkish tinge from 
the blood. This goes to form the fiber and muscle of meat, and is 
made hard and tough by hard boiling, but is soluble in a moderate heat. 
Therefore, if meat has strong and tough fiber, put it on in boiling 
water, place the kettle where it will simmer, and boil gently for a 
long time. In this way the toughest meat may be made tender 
and palatable. Plunging into boiling water at first closes the tis- 
sues and keeps in the juices of the meat. Gelatine is found in the 
bones, tendons, gristle, skin, sinews, and about the_4oints. Soak 
the parts from which it is to be removed in cold water, and then 
boil very gently for five or six hours, or until the meat is tender. 
Remove all bones and meat by straining ; set where it will cool, 
when the fat will be found at the top, and the gelatine in a jelly- 
like mass at the bottom. This is useful for preparing jellied 
meats, sauces, sausages, meat loaves, meat cheeses, and pressed 
meats of every kind ; or, warmed up properly with a spoonful of 
rice, a little milk, salted and flavored, it is good food for invalids. 

The fat of meats gives warmth, and is an appropriate food for 
a cold climate. In temperate regions it should be used sparingly. 
The fat that comes out when cooking meat should be saved by 
itself. That of pork makes lard, and by careful and sufficient cook- 
ing ma}- be kept any length of time. That from beef is tallow, 
and may be used in small quantities with lard nicely rendered, as 
drippings. 

The juices of meat may be obtained b} r chopping the raw meat, 
inclosing in a jar, placing in cold water, and gradually raising the 
temperature until the water gently boils. This juice is used in 

347 



348 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

making teas and in extracts of meat. When meats are cooked for 
the meat itself, they should be so quickly heated at first as to 
close the tissues, and keep in the juices ; but when used for soups 
or teas they may be very gradually heated to bring out the juices. 

Young animals are tender, and do not need so much cooking, 
but their meat is not as nutritious as that of older ones. 

Meats are always in season, though it were better to use the fat- 
ter meats in cooler, and leaner meats in warmer weather. Do not 
put meat directly upon the ice, or allow it to lie wrapped in 
butcher's paper. Take care of it when it first comes to the house, 
and, if there is a bloody piece about it, remove it. Lay it on a cool 
dish, and if to be kept some time, lay bits of charcoal about it, and 
place over ice in a cooler, as recommended for fish. Meat may be 
kept a long time in cold weather if care is taken, and it is much 
less expensive to buy a large quantity than to buy by the piece. 

Broiling is the most wholesome method of cooking meats, and 
very acceptable to invalids. Tough steak is made more tender by 
pounding or hacking with a dull knife, but some of the juices are 
lost by the operation ; cutting it across in small squares with a 
sharp knife on both sides is best. Tough meats are improved by 
lying two hours on a dish containing three or four tablespoons 
each of vinegar and salad oil, or butter, a little pepper, but no salt, 
and turning every twenty minutes. The action of the oil and vine- 
gar softens the fibers without extracting their juices. Trim off all 
superfluous fat, but never wash a freshly cut steak. Never salt or 
pepper steak or chops before or while cooking, but if very lean, dip 
in melted butter. Turn steaks with a small pair of tongs, as 
piercing with a fork frees the meat juices. 

Frying is properly cooking in fat enough to cover the article, 
and when the fat is hot, and properly managed, the food is crisped 
at the surface, and does not absorb the fat. The process of cook- 
ing in just enough fat to prevent sticking has not yet been named 
in English, and is sauteing, but is popularly known as frying, and 
ought to be banished from all civilized kitchens. The secret of 
success in frying is what the French call the "surprise." The 
fire must be hot enough to sear the surface and make it impervious 
to the fat, and at the same time seal up the rich juices. As soon 



MEATS. 349 

as the meat is browned by this sudden application of heat, the 
pan may be moved to a cooler place on the stove, that the process 
may be finished more slowly. 

BEEF. 

Beef should have a good outside layer of fat, and be well mar- 
bled with fat. The flesh should also be firm, of a bright red color, 
and the suet dry, and easily broken with the fingers. In buying 
a quarter of beef for immediate use, give the preference to a hind 
quarter. The fore quarter is cheaper, and contains, besides the 
roasting and boiling pieces, quite a good man}* pieces that may be 
corned, and kept; but it has less steak and thick pieces than the 
hind quarter. If a housekeeper has a butcher on whom to rely, 
it would be an invaluable lesson to go to his shop, observe the 
meat as it is cut and sorted, learn the different parts, and how to 
distinguish between them. Better pay him for the teaching, than 
to pay for sirloin, and get round steak. The first cut of sirloin is 
the end of the muscle, and not apt to be very tender. The second 
cut contains more of the tenderloin and is considered the best steak. 
The best pieces for roasting are the sirloin, tenderloin, and rib 
pieces. The sixth, seventh and eighth ribs are the best. It is well 
in a rib roast to have the bones taken out, and the roast rolled and 
tied by the butcher. Meat that is desired rare should have a very 
hot oven at first, and small pieces require a hot oven to prevent dry- 
ing. For a large rare roast allow ten minutes to the pound, and a 
longer time for one better done. The first strong heat of the oven 
sears the meat, and keeps the juices inside; by lessening the heat 
afterward the inside is cooked without any burning of the surface. 
A double iron pan is particularly nice for all roasting purposes. 

The gravy of roast meats is found in the dripping pan, under 
the fat, and should be poured carefully off and saved. If no 
water has been used in roasting, stock will need to be added, as 
only the fat will be found in the pan ; but if water has been used, 
it will be meat-flavored enough to add water to make a sufficient 
quantity. If not brown enough, brown flour in the oven and rub 
smooth with a little butter, add to the gravy, and boil up slowly. 
Add salt and pepper. If it should prove lumpy, for an)- reason, 



350 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

it should be strained through a wire strainer. Twice the quantity 
of gravy needed should be made, as it is most useful in warming 
over the cold meats. Never serve a white gravy, however well 
made, with roast meat, nor should it be so brown as to have a 
burned taste. 

BEEFSTEAK BROILED 1. 

Broiling steak is ihe very last thing to be done in getting break- 
fast or dinner ; every other dish should be ready for the table, so 
that this may have undivided attention. A steel gridiron with 
slender bars is best, as the common broad, flat iron bars fry and 
scorch the meat, imparting a disagreeable flavor. The dampers 
which shut off the draft to the chimney should be thrown open to 
take the flames in that direction. Lift the broiler from the fire 
before removing the lid, as the smoke and flames rush out past the 
meat and smoke it. Place the steak on a well-greased gridiron, 
turn often so that the outside may be seared at once ; when done, 
which will require from 5 to 10 minutes, lay it on a hot platter, sea- 
son with salt, pepper, and bits of butter, cover with a hot platter, 
and serve at once. If the fat drips on the coals below, the blaze 
may be extinguished by sprinkling with salt ; withdraw the grid- 
iron to prevent the steak from acquiring a smoky flavor. Always 
have a brisk fire, whether broiling in a patent broiler directly over 
the fire or on a gridiron over a bed of live coals. 

Or, lay a thick, tender steak upon a well-greased gridiron over 
hot coals ; when done on one side have ready the warmed platter 
with a little butter on it, lay the steak, without pressing it, upon 
the platter with the cooked side down so that the juices which have 
gathered may run on the platter, quickly place it again on the 
gridiron, and cook the other side. When done, place on the platter 
again, spread lightly with butter, season with salt and pepper, and 
set it where it will keep warm, for a few moments, but do not let 
the butter become oily. Serve on hot plates. It may be garnished 
with fried sliced potatoes, or with browned potato balls the size 
of a marble, piled at each end of the platter. 

BEEFSTEAK BROILED 2. 

Remove the fat and bone. Grease the gridiron with the fat and 
lay on the steak. Broil over a clean fire, turning often. If liked 



MEATS. 351 

rare, broil from 3 to 5 minutes, or longer if it is to be well done. 
Serve on a hot platter ; add butter, salt, pepper, and cover for a few 
minutes with a hot cover. This is for steak an inch thick. If 
cooked through, a red juice follows the fork. If blood follows of 
a dark red color the steak is raw. If the steak is tough, pound 
with a steak pounder or hack with a sharp knife, but in this case 
the outside must be quickly seared over or the juices will be lost. 

BEEFSTEAK FRIED. 

When the means to broil are not at hand, heat the frying pan 
very hot, put in a steak previously hacked, let it remain a few 
moments, loosen with a knife and turn quickly several times ; re- 
peat this, and when done transfer to a hot platter; add salt, 
pepper, and bits of butter; pile the steaks one on top of an- 
other, and cover with a hot platter. This way of frying is both 
healthful and delicate. Or, heat the skillet, trim off the fat from 
the steak, cut in small bits and set on to fry ; meanwhile pound 
the steak, draw the bits of suet to one side and put in the steak, 
turn quickly several times so as to sear the outside, take out on 
a hot platter previous^ prepared with salt and pepper, dredge 
well with flour, return to the skillet, repeating the operation until 
the steak is done ; lay on a hot platter, covering with another one, 
and place where it will keep hot while making the gravy. Stir a 
tablespoon diy flour in the skillet, being sure to have the fat boil- 
ing hot, brown, free from lumps, (the bits of suet may be left in, 
drawing them to one side until the flour is browned), pour in half 
a pint of boiling water, milk, or cream, stir well, season with pep- 
per and salt, and serve in a gravy tureen. Spread bits of butter 
over the steak and send it to the table at once. This is more 
economical, but not so wholesome as broiling. 

BEEFSTEAK WITH OYSTERS. 

Cook the liquor of half a pint of oysters 2 minutes, skim well, 
add the 03'sters and boil 2 minutes, add 2 tablespoons cracker, 
rolled fine and smoothed with an equal amount of butter. Broil a 
nice steak carefully, la}' it in a deep dish, adding salt, pepper, and 
butter, and pour the oysters over it. Serve with nice, brown, but- 
tered toast and a glass of cranberry jelly. 



352 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

BEEFSTEAK WITH TOMATOES. 
10 tomatoes, or 1 ''pound can, y 2 pint beef stock, 

1 rolled cracker, 1 onion. 

Pare and stew the tomatoes with the onion in the beef stock 1 
hour, and add the cracker, with salt and pepper. Broil a nice 
steak carefully, add butter, salt, pepper, and lay in a hot, deep 
platter. Pour the boiling sauce over the steak, and serve hot, 
with short cakes just from the oven. The onion and cracker may 
be omitted from the sauce. 

CORNED BEEF, BOILED. 

Soak over night if very salt, but if beef is young and properly 
corned this is not necessary ; pour over it cold water enough to 
cover it well, after washing off the salt. The rule for boiling 
meats is 25 minutes to a pound, but corned beef should be placed 
on a part of the stove or range where it will simmer, not boil, un- 
interruptedly from 4 to 6 hours, according to the size of the piece. 
If to be served cold, let the meat remain in the liquor until cold. 
Tough beef should remain in the liquor until the next day, and 
be brought to the boiling point just before serving. Simmer a brisket 
or plate-piece until the bones are easily removed, fold over, form- 
ing a square or oblong piece, place sufficient weight on top to press 
the parts closely together, and set where it will become cold. This 
gives a firm, solid piece to cut in slices, and is a delightful relish. 
Boil the liquor clown, remove the fat, season with pepper or sweet 
herbs, and save it to pour over finely-minced scraps and pieces of 
beef; press the meat firmly into a mould, add the liquor, and 
place over it a close cover with a weight upon it. When turned 
from the mould, garnish with sprigs of parsley or celery, and serve 
with fancy pickles or French mustard. 

FRESH BEEF, BOILED. 

Wipe well, and if rib pieces, the bones may be removed and a 
close roll made by tying with strong twine. Plunge into boiling 
water, enough to cover it, skim when it boils, and cook very slowly 
until tender. Do not salt until half an hour before it is cooked. 
The rule for boiling beef is 25 minutes to the pound and 25 min- 
utes extra, but one must be governed by the age and quality of 
the beef. After the beef is removed, boil the water quickly to 1 



MEATS. 353 

quart of liquid. Set self-sealing glass jars on a thick wet cloth, 
fill with the boiling liquor, put on the rubber, two if the can is old, 
and screw the top down quickly. Set away in a cool, dark place, 
and use as stock for gravy or soup. 

FILLET OF BEEF. 

Remove all veins and tough portions, with most of the fat. Rub 
well with salt, pepper and flour. On the bottom of the dripping 
pan place the pieces of fat, and a slice or two of fat salt pork. 
Have a hot oven and bake nearly 40 minutes. Take out and baste 
thoroughly. Sift cracker crumbs over it, and lay on several bits 
of butter. Return it to the oven, brown quickly and remove. 
Make the gravy as in directions for brown gravy, and to a portion 
of it add fried mushrooms, and serve with the roast. Garnish 
with nasturtium leaves and bloom. A stuffing may be made as for 
turkey, and baked separately, often basted with the meat gravy. 

BEEF HEART, BOILED. 

Prepare the same as for beef tongue. To flavor the heart, or 
prepare it for pressed meat, boil a half pound salt pork with it, 
and add spices and pepper to taste when it is chopped. To make 
into mince pies boil with the pork and chop both, or salt and boil 
alone. 

BEEF HEART, STUFFED. 

Take a beef, sheep or calf's heart, wash thoroughly to remove 
all blood, make the two cells into one by cutting through the par- 
tition with a long, sharp knife, being careful not to cut through to 
the outside ; fill the cavity with a stuffing made as for roast turkey, 
cover with greased paper or cloth to secure it in place, and bake 
2 hours or longer, in a deep pan with plenty of water, basting and 
turning often, as the upper part particularl} r is apt to get dry. 
While the heart is roasting, put the valves or " deaf ears," which 
must be cut off after washing, into a saucepan, with a pint of cold 
water and a sliced onion. Let simmer slowly 1 hour; melt a 
tablespoon butter, add a tablespoon flour, then the strained liquor 
from valves, boil up and serve as gravy. 

BEEF LOAF. 

One of the cheapest meats for breakfast or tea, as well as one of 
the nicest, is a beef loaf. Buy 4 or 5 pounds of the cheapest 



354 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

pieces of beef, such as neck or rib pieces — those that are usually 
sold for a stew, but pieces without much bone, — if a larger loaf is 
desired a beef's heart may be added. Wash and cover with boil- 
ing water, and add a pound of salt pork, not too fat. Care must 
be taken that every scrap put into the kettle is perfectly clean and 
untainted, and scraps of steak or roast beef may be added. Let 
it come to a boil and skim, even the third time, if necessary. Put 
where it will just simmer all day. Remove, chop, and pick out all 
hard pieces and bones. Add 6 crackers and, a little at a time, the 
liquor in which it was boiled until it is a thick mass. It may not 
take all the liquor. Add salt and pepper to taste. Butter a deep 
bread tin and pack the meat in solidly. Place in the oven and let 
stay 10 minutes, or until heated through. Set in a cold place. 
When partly cool if not solid enough put on a pressure. To serve, 
loosen from the edges of the pan, hold in boiling water for a min- 
ute or two, turn out, and slice with a sharp knife from the end. 
If for breakfast, and potatoes are to be served, make a brown 
gravy with the liquor that may have been left. 

This recipe may be varied to suit the meat in quantity and kind. 
If the meat is quite fat, or contains a good deal of gelatine, it may 
take more crackers. If very lean, as it would be if made wholly 
of heart and the pork, less crackers should be used. Other meats, 
as veal, pork, lamb, etc., may be used in this way and are very 
nice. If liver is added to it, first scald it and turn the water off. 
Cut it into small pieces and put into the kettle 30 minutes before 
removing from the fire. 

BEEF A LA MODE. 

In a piece of the rump, cut deep openings with a sharp knife ; 
put in pieces of pork, cut into dice, previously rolled in pepper, 
salt, cloves and nutmeg. Into an iron stewpan lay pieces of pork, 
sliced onions, slices of lemon, one or two carrots, and a bay leaf ; 
lay the meat on and put over it a piece of bread crust as large as 
the hand, one-half glass currant jelly, lemon juice, and afterwards 
an equal quantity of water or broth, till the meat is half covered ; 
cover the dish close and cook till tender. Then take it out, rub 
the gravy thoroughly through a sieve, skim off the fat, add sour 
cream, return to the stewpan and cook ten minutes. Instead of 



MEATS. 355 

cream, capers or sliced cucumber pickles may be added to the 
gravy, or a handful of grated gingerbread or rye bread. The meat 
may also be laid for some days before cooking in spiced vinegar. 

RAGOUT OF BEEP. 
6 pounds round, 6 cloves, 

y 2 pound salt pork, 1 stick cinnamon, 

6 ripe tomatoes, Whole black peppers, 

2 or 3 onions, y 2 cup vinegar. 

Cut the tomatoes and onions into a kettle or pan having a 
closely fitting cover, and add the spices ; gash the meat, stuff with 
the fat salt pork, cut into square bits, place it on the other ingre- 
dients, and pour over them the juice of a lemon and a cup of 
water ; cover tightly, and bake in a moderate oven ; cook slowly 4 
or 5 hours, and, when half done, salt to taste. When cooked, 
take out the meat, strain the gravy and thicken with flour. 

BEEF ROAST. 

Take a rib piece or loin roast of 7 to 8 pounds. Beat it thor- 
oughly all over, lay it in the roasting dish and baste it with melted 
butter. Put into the well-heated oven, and baste frequently 
with its own fat, which will make it brown and tender. If, when 
it is cooking fast, the gravy is growing too brown, turn a glass of 
boiling water into the bottom of the pan, and repeat this as often 
as the gravy cooks away. The roast needs nearly two hours time 
for cooking, and must be brown outside but inside red and juicy. 
Season with salt and pepper. Serve with brown gravy and garnish 
with sliced lemons. 

BEEP ROAST WITH PUDDING. 

Roast beef as directed ; make a Yorkshire pudding, to eat with 
the roast, as follows : 

Yorkshire Pudding. 
1 pint milk, 3 cups flour, 

Pinch of salt, 3 eggs. 

Beat to a smooth batter, and pour into the dripping pan under 
the meat, or into a hot pan with some of the drippings from the 
beef which is roasting, and bake 30 minutes. Cut in squares and 
serve on the platter with the roast. 



356 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

RIB ROAST. 

Kemove the ribs and backbone. Roll up smoothly and as 
closely as possible, the butcher will -do this if asked, wind tightly 
with twine, and roast as sirloin, except that it will take a little 
longer to the pound. The potatoes may be browned in the pan 
with the beef. Serve with brown gravy in which a little parsley 
has boiled. Garnish with parsley and sliced blood-beet pickles. 

THE RUMP ROAST. 

Many prefer this roast to the other pieces as it is cheaper, all 
good and comes in better shape. It is excellent cold. Rub well 
with pepper and flour. When the flour in the pan is browned pour 
in a pint of water, and baste often. If a soft stewing sound comes 
from the oven it is doing well, but if the fat sizzles and snaps 
the water is out and the fat burning. If the whole rump is used 
carve it lengthwise. Many prefer the gravy when an onion or two 
has been roasted with the beef. Salt at the last basting. 

SIRLOIN OF BEEP ROASTED. 

Procure 8 pounds of the second cut of sirloin. No washing is 
necessary if the butcher is neat in handling it. Trim off all un- 
sightly pieces and bits of gristle and wipe carefully with a wet 
cloth. Tie and skewer it into the shape to serve on the table. 
The flank piece may be cut off and left in the pan or saved for 
soup or stock. Use a large dripping pan. Lay the meat skin side 
down on a rack, or three or four sticks laid crosswise in the pan. 
Rub it well with flour. Have a quick fire to sear the cut sides of 
the meat, and when the flour on the bottom of the pan is brown 
the heat is great enough and may be gradually reduced. Many 
add a pint of hot water at this point to avoid so much basting. 
Baste often by dipping the fat and gravy from the pan over the 
meat. If the beef is liked very rare, an hour of steady baking 
after it is seared will be sufficient, but if well done, keep in a slow 
steady heat a half hour longer. There is much danger of burning 
the fat in the pan if the water is not added ; it will need constant 
watching, and great care must be given the fire. When nearly 
done turn and brown the under side and place skin side up on the 
platter. Carve by cutting thin slices parallel with the ribs, and 
by running the knife down the backbone to separate the slices. If 






MEATS. 357 

some prefer the tenderloin, remove it from under the bone and slice 
in the same manner. Serve with mashed or browned potatoes, 
brown sauce or gravy. The meat may be made more attractive by 
a garnish of celery leaves and bunches of barberries. 

ROUND OF BEEF SPICED. 
20 pounds round, 1 ounce cloves, 

1 quart salt, 3 ounces saltpetre, 

1 nutmeg, % ounce allspice. 

Rub the salts and spices together until fine. Rub the beef well 
with this powder after removing the bone. Put a part of the 
powder into a tub just large enough to hold the meat. Lay the 
beef on it and pour over it the rest of the powder. Rub it well 
every day for ten days. Wash the beef and bind it up compactly 
with a tape and fill in all spaces with pieces of suet. Lay in a pan 
of convenient size and drop bits of suet over it. Sprinkle with 3 
ounces brown sugar, 1 tablespoon pepper, 1 ounce powdered mace, 
and add 1 pint of water, with the juice of a lemon. Cover closely 
and simmer 7 or 8 hours, adding water as it boils dry. 

BEEF SMOTHERED. 

Use 4 pounds of rump, or other thick roasting piece. Sear 
quickly on a hot flying pan or in a very hot oven. Put into a stew- 
kettle with 1^ cups of boiling water. Cover closely and put where 
it will just boil. Watch that the water does not boil awa}', or the 
meat will burn. Cook until tender, or about 3 hours. Add salt 
15 minutes before taking up. ' Remove the meat carefully to a 
hot platter. Add more water to the gravy, if necessary, and thicken 
with 1 tablespoon flour smoothed in bu *r. Serve the gravy in 
a boat. 

BEEF STEWED. 

Pound a piece of the rump until tender, lay it in an iron ves- 
sel previously lined with slices of pork and onions, and a few pep- 
per-corns; salt, and baste with melted butter. Cover close, set over 
a good heat, and when it has fried a nice brown, add 1 quart good 
soup stock, and stew it till soft. Before serving, take out the 
meat, skim off the fat, add 1 tablespoon flour mixed smooth with 
broth, gradually add more broth, strain it through a sieve and 
turn over the meat. The meat may lie for some days before cook- 



358 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

ing, iii vinegar, or in a spiced pickle, or be basted with either oc- 
casionally, instead of lying in it. 

A BROWN STEW. 

Put on the stove a thick piece of beef having little bone but 
some fat ; cover with boiling water. Put on the kettle a close-fit-, 
ting lid, boil gently 4 hours, and as the water boils away add just 
enough from time to time to keep it from burning, so that when 
the meat is tender the water may all be boiled away, and the fat 
will allow the meat to brown without burning ; turn occasionally, 
brown evenly over a slow fire, take out on a platter and make a 
gravy by stirring flour and water together and adding to the drip- 
pings ; season with salt an hour before it is done. 

BEEF STEW WITH DUMPLINGS. 

Buy a nice stewing piece, juicy, not too fat, and the lean part 
must not be skinny. If it has some bone it will be likely to have 
gelatine enough to make the stew nice. If the piece contains 4 or 
5 pounds and is rightly selected, it will serve a small family for a 
roast and may then be used for a stew, as the flavor from roast- 
ing, if not burned, improves the stew. If raw, brown slightly in 
drippings in a hot skillet, put into the kettle with water enough to 
cover, and add 2 onions; a few pieces of yellow turnip cut small, 
some bits of orange carrot, if the flavor is liked, to make it richer. 
Cook 3 hours and add 8 small pared potatoes that have been 
lying in cold water for an hour, with salt and pepper to taste. The 
liquor in the kettle should be well over the whole, and just before 
the potatoes are done put in the dumplings, cover closely to keep 
in the steam and boil 10 minutes without lifting the cover, or the 
dumplings will fall. Take out the dumplings, then the rest of the 
vegetables and the meat, on a hot platter. Place the dumplings 
around the edge. Remove the fat from the liquor and thicken 
with a little flour smoothed in butter or in a little cold water. 
Boil up and pour over the stew. Put the extra gravy in a boat. 

Dumplings. 

1 pint flour, 2 teaspoons baking powder, 

1 cup sweet milk, A pinch of salt. 

Make into dough soft enough to handle. Pat it out and cut 



MEATS. 359 

into small rounds half an inch thick, or if too soft to cut drop in 
with a spoon. 

TENDERLOIN BROILED. 

Slices from the tenderloin may be broiled like beefsteak. 

BEEP TONGUE BOILED. 

Wash it clean, put in the pot with water to cover with a pint of salt, 
ami a small pod of red pepper ; if the water boils away, add more 
so as to keep the tongue nearl}' covered until done; boil slowly 
until it can be pierced easily with a fork, take out, and if needed 
for present use, take off the skin and set away to cool ; if to be 
kept some days, do not peel until wanted. The same amount of 
salt will do for three tongues if the pot is large enough to hold 
them, remembering to keep sufficient water in the kettle to cover 
all while boiling. Soak a salt tongue over night, and cook in the 
same wa}', omitting the salt. Or, after peeling, place the tongue 
in a saucepan with 1 cup water, one-half cup vinegar, and 4 table- 
spoons sugar ; cook till the liquor is nearly evaporated. 

BEEF TONGUE SPICED. 

1 beef tongue, 1 tablespoon cloves, 

5-2 pint sugar, Pinch of saltpetre. 

Hub the sugar, cloves and saltpetre into the tongue ; immerse it 

in a brine made of three-quarters of a pound of salt to 2 quarts of 

water, and keep it well covered. Let it lie 1 week, take out, 

wash well, and dry with a cloth. Make a thin paste of flour and 

water, wrap the tongue in it, and bake slowly in a pan, basting 

well with lard and water. "When done, remove the paste and 

skin, and serve. 

TRIPE FRIED. 

Dredge boiled tripe with flour, or dip in egg and cracker crumbs, 
fry in hot butter, or other fat, until a delicate brown on both sides ; 
lay it on a dish, add vinegar to the grav}-, and pour over the tripe. 
The vinegar ma} T be omitted, and the gravy added, or the tripe 
may be served without vinegar or gravy. Or, make a batter by 
mixing gradually 1 cup of flour with 1 of sweet milk, adding an 
egg well beaten and a little salt ; drain the tripe, dip in the batter, 
and fry in hot drippings or lard. Salt pork and pigs' feet may be 
cooked by the same rule. Buy the honey-combed tripe. 



360 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

To fricassee tripe, cut it in narrow strips, add water or milk, 
butter rubbed in flour, pepper, and a little salt ; let simmer slowly 
for some time, and serve hot, garnished with parsley. 

TRIPE SOUSED. 

After boiling, place it in a stone jar in layers, seasoning each 
one with pepper and salt, and pour over boiling vinegar, in which 
a few whole cloves, a sprinkle of mace, and a stick of cinnamon 
may be boiled ; or cover with the jelly or liquor in which the tripe 
was boiled. When wanted for the table, take out of the jar, scrape 
off the liquid, and broil, fricassee, or fry in butter. 

GAME. 

Game is a particularly valuable food for invalids as it abounds 
in phosphates. The flesh is fine, dry, and not marbled with fat, as 
is the case with tame meats. It has a wild, "woodsy" flavor,- 
from the wild food on which it feeds ; but if well bled as soon as 
killed, it will not be disagreeable. There is a large vein under the 
tongue, not only of birds but of animals, that can be easily opened 
with a sharp penknife, which will bleed the body thoroughly if 
the game is suspended by the feet to a limb of a tree. Feathers 
of birds pick off easily in this position while the birds are yet 
warm. If for immediate use, this should be done. Catch hold of 
the plumage near the tail, and strip off carefully and rapidly to 
the head. Leave the head, tail and wings on. Cut a slit inside 
the right leg, remove the entrails, wipe out the blood, and stuff 
full of wild prairie grass to keep dry and in form. Keeping game 
brings out its flavor and makes it more tender. If pieces of ven- 
ison, or birds, show signs of being slightly tainted, immerse im- 
mediately in new milk in which are several pieces of charcoal, and 
let remain for a day or more, when they will be found to be sweet. 

In preparing birds for cooking, remove carefully all shot and 
plunge in a pan of boiling water, when any pin feathers may be 
removed with the skin. Do not wash game more than is neces- 
sary for cleanliness. Often, wiping with a wet cloth will be all 
that is required. Chickens, ducks, partridges, etc., require a hot 
fire, and not so much time to cook as poultry. They should be 
thoroughly done. Game is fine broiled or roasted in front of an open 



MEATS. 361 

fire. For tent-roasting, split clown the back of a chicken, open under- 
neath, and pound the breast bone to make it flat ; rub with a little 
pepper, and impale on the points of a long, forked stick. On the 
points of the stick arrange a slice of fat pork, and hold to the 
camp fire, first one side until brown, and then the other. The 
salt pork both salts and bastes it. If the fire is hot, it is most de- 
licious. It may be done the same waj^ at home before the fire, in 
a common toaster placed over a dripping pan, and served on hot 
toast, for breakfast. The time required for cooking is a little less 
than half an hour. To broil either birds or venison steak, prepare 
them as above and lay on a gridiron over a hot fire until well 
browned. Turn, and when well done place on a hot dish ; butter, 
salt, and pepper both sides well, and serve hot. 

To roast birds, season with salt and pepper, place a lump of but- 
ter inside, truss, skewer, and place in the oven. The flavor is best 
preserved without stuffing, but a plain bread dressing, with a piece 
of salt pork or ham skewered on the breast, is very nice. A deli- 
cate way of dressing is to place an oyster dipped in the well-beaten 
yolk of an egg or in melted butter, and then rolled in bread 
crumbs, inside each bird. Allow thirty minutes to roast, or longer 
if stuffed. "Wild ducks, pheasants and grouse are best roasted. 

To lard game, cut fat salt pork into thin, narrow strips, thread a 
larding needle with one of the strips, run the needle under the skin 
and a little of the flesh of the bird, and draw the pork half way 
through, so that the ends of the strips exposed will be of equal 
length. The strips should be about one inch apart. The larding 
interferes with the natural flavor of the bird, but renders it more 
juicy. Many tie a piece of bacon on the breast. 

Pigeons should be cooked a long time, as they are usually quite 
lean and tough ; they are better to lie in salt water half an hour, 
or to be parboiled in it for a few minutes. They are nice roasted 
or made into a pie. 

Larger birds, as pheasants, prairie chickens, peacocks, etc. , ma}- 
be soaked in salted water for eight or nine hours, or parboiled 
with an onion or a little vinegar in the water, before they are 
cooked. A lemon from which the outer rind has been taken, laid 
inside wild fowl, will absorb unpleasant flavors and odors. In 



362 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

laying away a bird for several hours to await cooking, a piece of 
charcoal laid inside will prevent its becoming tainted ; squirrels and 
rabbits should also be rubbed with salt, and laid in a cloth with 
bits of charcoal about them. 

Venison is fine roasted or broiled, and loses almost entirely its 
musk}' taste when made into a fricassee. Geese and ducks should 
be young to be good. If geese are not more than a year old, the 
fat will be soft and white, the wings tender, the feet } T ellow, 
and they will be thick and firm on the breast. The feet of wild 
ducks are red instead of yellow. Pigeons are dry and far from 
good if old, but young, plump pigeons, that live where they can 
steal oats and corn of the farmer, or from the wheat elevators, are 
sweet, tender, and delicious on toast, in a pie, or as broth for in- 
valids. Baked, or broiled, or roasted, or almost any way grain- 
fed pigeons are cooked, they are excellent. Partridges are best in 
a pie or broiled. Spruce partridges, at the time of the forming of 
the cones of the spruce tree, will have a peculiar flavor, like gum 
from a spruce tree. Cooks have tried to impart this by using es- 
sence of spruce in boiling, but without perfect success. Partridges, 
quails, and grouse should have 3 r ellowish legs and dark bills. The 
fat of venison should be white, and the meat dark red. 

Sending game to market without dressing ought never to be 
done, and if done, no housekeeper who cares for the health of her 
family should buy it. It should be stripped of feathers and drawn, 
when brought to the house. Remove the windpipe and the crop 
without injuring the looks of the neck. Cut the neck, not too 
closely; cut off the legs at the joint, and take out the oil bag, 
which lies in the tail. 

To cut up a bird : Cut the loose skin between the leg and the 
body. Bend the leg back, and cut off at the joint. Find the 
joint between the thigh and the rest of the leg by moving to see 
how it goes together ; this can be easity separated. The wings 
are removed in the same way. Slice off the breast to the bone be- 
neath, and bending back, separate at the joints. Separate the 
front from the back. Cut each side below the ribs, and bend 
back. The spine will show a place that may be cut through 
easily. Cut off the neck, and remove the lungs, kidneys, and any 



MEATS. 363 

part that may have been left. Wash as little as possible, but 
note how the bird is arranged, that when prepared whole for bak- 
ing it may be cleaned properly for the dressing. If it is to be 
cooked whole, the neck should be cut so as to leave two-thirds on, 
and care must be used not to break the gall bag on the liver when 
it is drawn. Everything should be taken out that can be removed, 
and if the gizzard is to be saved, a sharp knife must be used to 
cut it across both ways, when the inner skin can be started, and 
peeled out, leaving the inside smooth. For baking, draw the legs 
close together, and tie loosely. Use a light but well-flavored 
dressing. Stuff not over full, and lay close together, backs down, 
in a dripping pan. Lay over thin slices of salt pork, and baste 
with melted butter. Put a very little water in the pan to prevent 
burning, or la} r under them thin slices of pork. 

ROAST BIRDS. 

Prepare as for baking. Season with pepper and salt, skewer on 
a thin slice of salt pork, and bake 15 or 20 minutes, basting often 
with melted butter. Brown sweet potatoes in the same pan with 
the birds. Serve with cranberries or currant jelly, and bread 
sauce. They may be served on toast with celery, if preferred. 
Apple sauce and green peas may be served with ducks and geese ; 
cranberries, currants, and barberries with other birds, and venison. 
Sweet potatoes and squash may be served with many roasts and 
broils, and turnip and cabbage with boiled and fricasseed game. 
Brown sauces are best, but should not be flavored with onions un- 
less these vegetables -are liked by all the guests, as they are very 
offensive to many people. Oyster sauces and dressings are not 
suitable, and add a fishiness to the wild flavor that is far from 
pleasant. Reed birds, and some other birds, we have purposely 
omitted, as they are for the delight of the e} T e and the ear, rather 
than of the palate. 

PRAIRIE CHICKEN OR PARTRIDGE PRIED. 

Cut up a } r oung chicken, sprinkle with flour, and let it stand in a 
cool place. Cook it in fat obtained from frying salt pork, or use 
equal parts of lard and butter. A large quantity of fat will be 
needed. Roll the chicken in flour or beaten egg and cracker crumbs, 
and lay in the hot fat. Cover and cook slowly but steadily 30 or 45 



364 housekeeper cook book. 

minutes, that it may be thoroughly done without burning. Brown 
on both sides, and after turning leave off the cover. When 
cooked remove to a hot platter, and shake flour into the fat ; as it 
bubbles pour in 1 cup of milk or thin cream, add salt, and as soon 
as thickened pour around the bird and serve. An old bird must 
lie over night sprinkled with salt. Tame chickens are nice cooked 
in this manner. 

PRAIRIE CHICKEN STEAMED. 

Cut out all shot, wash thoroughly but quickly, using a little soda 
in the water, rinse and dry, fill with dressing, sew up with cotton 
thread, and tie down the legs and wings ; place in a steamer over 
hot water till done, remove to a dripping pan, cover with butter, 
sprinkle with salt and pepper, dredge with flour, place in the oven 
and baste with the melted butter until a nice brown ; serve with 
either apple sauce, cranberries, or currant jelly. 

DUCK BOILED. 

Dress and rub well inside with salt and pepper, truss and tie in 
shape, pushing the legs into the body, into which put 1 or 2 sage 
leaves, a little finely-chopped onion, and jellied stock or gravy; 
rub with salt and pepper ; make a paste in the proportion of one- 
half pound butter to 1 pound flour, in which inclose the duck, tie 
a cloth around all, and boil 2 hours, or until tender, keeping it 
well covered with boiling water. Serve by pouring round it a 
brown gravy made as follows : Put a lump of butter the size of 
an egg in a saucepan with a little minced onion ; cook until 
slightly brown, add a small tablespoon flour, stir well, and when 
brown add a half pint of stock or water ; let cook a few minutes, 
strain, and stir in the chopped giblets, previously stewed till ten- 
der. 

DUCK ROASTED. 

Clean and wipe with a wet cloth, and a dry one. If the duck 
has a strong flavor lay an onion in it and parboil 10 minutes. As 
soon as taken from the fire, take out the onion and plunge the 
duck into cold water, taking it out immediately. Stuff the duck 
and roast like chicken ; have a lump of butter in the water of the 
dripping pan and baste frequently. Carve duck in thick pieces, 
and serve with currant jelly and celery. Or, if mild and young, 



MEATS. 3G5 

rub the duck with butter after it is cleaned and dressed, and put 
into a pan, in which is a little hot water and butter. Omit the 
stuffing and bake in a hot oven 20 or 30 minutes, basting fre- 
quently. Stew the giblets, chop fine, mix with the thickened 
gravy, and serve immediately, with cranberry sauce. Be sure the 
plates for duck and all game are well heated before using. 
frogs' legs broiled. 

Remove the skin from the hind legs, which is the only part 
eaten, soak in salt and water, and parboil 3 minutes. Wipe dry 
and broil quickly over hot coals, or in a hot spider well greased 
with butter. Pour over browned butter and flour. Serve with 
fried mushrooms and cauliflower. 

progs' legs fried. 

Parboil them 2 minutes in salted water if old. Dip alternately 
in crumbs and beaten egg, and fry in boiling lard. The lard must 
be hot enough to smoke. Serve with green peas and stewed 
tomatoes. 

GOOSE ROASTED. 

Wild goose should be soaked in salt and water 12 hours before 
cooking, and if old, should be parboiled at least an hour. The 
goose should not be more than 8 months old, and the fatter it is, 
the more tender and juicy is the meat. A "green" goose, 4 
months old, is the choicest. Kill at least 24 hours before cook- 
ing ; cut the neck close to the back, beat the breast bone flat with 
a rolling-pin, tie the wings and legs securely, and stuff with the 
following mixture : 3 pints bread crumbs, 6 ounces butter, or part 
butter and part salt pork, 2 chopped onions, 1 teaspoon each of 
sage, black pepper and salt. Do not stuff very full, and stitch 
openings firmly together to keep the flavor in and the fat out. If 
the goose is not fat, lard it with salt pork, or tie a slice on the 
breast. Place in a dripping pan with a little water, and baste fre- 
quently with salt and water, turning often so that the sides and 
back may be nicely browned. When nearly done, baste with but- 
ter and a little flour. Bake 2 hours, or more if it is old ; take 
from the pan, pour off the fat, and to the brown gravy add the 
chopped giblets, which have previously been stewed till tender, 
thicken with a little flour and butter rubbed together, bring to a 



366 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

boil, and serve with currant jelly. Apple sauce and onion sauce 
are proper accompaniments to roast goose. 

GROUSE LARDED. 

Prepare as by general rules. Rub with salt, and a little thick 
cream, and dredge with flour. Bake in a quick oven 30 minutes, 
serve with cranberries and bread sauce. 

MOOSE. 

Moose may be boiled or baked, stewed as beef or used for 
soup. It is good corned or dried. Any recipe that is good for 
beef, except for rare beef, will apply well to moose or buffalo. 

OPOSSUM. 

Scald with lye, scrape off the hair, and dress whole, leaving on 
the head and tail ; rub well with salt and set in a cool place over 
night ; place in a large stone pan with 1 quart water and 3 slices 
bacon ; when half baked fill with a dressing of bread crumbs, sea- 
soned with salt, pepper, and onions if liked. After returning to 
the oven place sweet potatoes, pared, around the opossum, and 
bake all a light brown, basting frequently. When served place an 
apple or a sweet potato in its mouth. 

PEACOCK. 

Prepare as goose by parboiling from 20 minutes to an hour, ac- 
cording to age. Do not allow the skin to break. Take out, and 
wipe dry. Skewer and tie into as near a natural shape as possi- 
ble. Use stuffing as for goose, except that it should be moist- 
ened with half a pint of cream, and flavored with chopped celery 
and a little nutmeg, instead of onion. Serve with apple sauce, 
over which slices of lemon have been laid. The brown gravy, 
which should accompany peacock, should be flavored with celery, 
salt, and a bit of nutmeg, in addition to what comes from the 
dressing, and great care taken that the water does not boil out of 
the pan, as the bird will often -need basting. In laying on the 
platter, the garnish should be the white leaves of celery, made 
brilliant at the ends with nasturtium bloom, or, if out of their 
season, bright peppers and pickles. 

PARTRIDGES, PHEASANTS, PIGEONS, OR GROUSE PANNED. 

Dress the birds, split down the back, wipe carefully with a wet 
cloth, and lay in a deep pan, a patent baker is the best, with a 



MEATS. 367 

slice of pork on the breast. Pour half a cup boiling water into 
the pan, adding salt, pepper, and 1 tablespoon butter. Cover 
tightly, set in a hot oven, baste frequently, and bake 25 or 30 
minutes. If the flesh is firm, not soft, under pressure of a broad 
knife, it is done. Serve with the gravy on buttered toast, and ac- 
company with a salad. 

PHEASANT OR PRAIRIE CHICKEN BROILED. 

Scald and skin, cut off the breast and cut the rest up in joints, 
being careful to remove all the shot ; parboil all, except the breast, 
until it can be pierced with a fork, take out, rub over it salt, pep- 
per, and butter ; broil with the breast over a brisk fire ; place a 
lump of butter on each piece, and set in the oven for a few min- 
utes. Serve at breakfast on fried mush, and at dinner on toast 
with a bit of currant jelly over each piece. Or, serve on pieces of 
toast 2 inches square. Rub butter and flour together, add the 
water used in cooking the birds, and pour over the toast. Squir- 
rels may be prepared the same way. 

PIGEONS POTTED. 

Prepare as for baking. Tie the legs down by a string passing 
under the tail. Stuff with salted cracker crumbs, soften with hot 
water, add butter, pepper, and a bit of chopped onion, and moisten 
with thick cream. Have ready some pork fat in which an onion 
has been fried. Heat hot, and brown the pigeons all over in the 
fat. Put them into a stewpan, and add boiling water enough to 
nearly cover them. Let simmer until tender, remove to a hot 
dish, and thicken with flour and butter browned together in a 
stewpan. Pour the brown gravy over the pigeons, and serve hot 
with barberry or currant jelly, stewed squash, and red onions in 
melted butter. 

PIGEONS STUFFED AND BAKED. 

Pigeons may be stuffed with chopped parsley, salt, pepper, and 
a little pork; or they may be stuffed with cracker stuffing, in 
which celery has been chopped, and baked in a quick oven for 20 
minutes, or more if not tender. Lay thin slices of pork over them, 
and put a little boiling water in the pan. Cover with a buttered 
paper if inclined to burn. 



368 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

QUAILS. 

Quails may be roasted, or broiled, and served on toast with cel- 
ery. Often the breasts only are broiled, and the rest used to make 
a nice brown sauce. For this, cut it up with the giblets, and put 
into cold water in the stewpan, with a piece of butter, and boil 
until the juices are removed. Skim out and add to the juice a 
half pint of cream, and thicken with flour browned in the oven, and 
smoothed with butter ; add salt and pepper. 

QUAIL BROILED. 

Split through the back and broil over a hot fire, basting fre- 
quently with butter. When done place a bit of butter on each 
piece, and set in the oven a few moments to brown. Serve on 
pieces of toast with currant jelly. Plovers are cooked in the same 
way. 

QUAIL ROASTED. 

Pluck and dress like chickens, wipe clean, and rub both inside 
and out with salt and pepper ; stuff with any good dressing, and 
sew up with fine thread ; spread with butter and place in an oven 
with a good steady heat, turning and basting often with hot water 
seasoned with butter, salt and pepper ; bake three-quarters of an 
hour. When half done add a little hot water to the pan, and 
cover with a dripping pan to prevent browning too much. Add 
flour and butter rubbed together, to the gravy, and water if needed. 

QUAIL ON TOAST. 

Dry pick them, and singe with paper ; cut off the heads, and 
legs at the first joint, draw, split down the back, soak in salt and 
water for 5 or 10 minutes, drain and dry with a cloth, lard with 
bacon or butter, rub salt over them, place on a broiler, and turn 
often, dipping 2 or 3 times into melted butter; broil about 20 
minutes. Have ready as many slices of buttered toast as there 
are birds, and serve a bird, breast upward, on each slice. 

RABBITS. 

Rabbits, which are in the best condition in midwinter, may be 
fricasseed like chicken in white or brown sauce. For a pie, stew 
till tender, and make like chicken pie. To roast, stuff with a 
dressing made of bread crumbs, chopped salt pork, thyme, onion, 
pepper and salt, sew up, rub over with a little butter, or pin on it 



MEATS. 3U9 

a tew slices of sa.t pork, add a little water in the pan, and baste 
often. Serve with mashed potatoes and currant jelly. 

RABBITS AND HARES. 

Rabbits and hares may be stewed, baked, fricasseed, or broiled, 
as chicken, and garnished with sliced lemon and olives ; or they 
may be moulded in jelly, as are chickens, and garnished with 
parsley, bunches of barberries, and served with cranberry sauce. 

SNIPE. 

Snipe are best roasted with a piece of pork tied to the breast ; 
they may be stuffed and baked. 

TURKEY OR BRANT ROASTED. 

Clean immediately, wash and wipe the inside carefully. Use 
chopped salt pork in the stuffing, prepared as for tame turkey. 
Cover the bird with slices of salt pork, or add by degrees half a 
cup of butter to the gravy in the pan, and baste very often, as the 
meat is quite dry. Serve with cranberry sauce or currant jell};. 

VENISON. 

Venison may be cooked as lamb, or tender beef ; but one of the 
best wa}'s is as a fricassee. Cover with boiling water, and simmer 
slowly until tender, and the water reduced to less than a pint. 
Add piece of butter half the size of an egg, and salt and pepper to 
taste, boil up and thicken with browned flour rubbed smooth with 
a bit of butter; serve hot with vegetables, and cranberry or cur- 
rant jelly. 

HAUNCH OP VENISON ROASTED. 

Wash in warm water and dr} r well with a cloth, butter a sheet of 
white paper and put over the fat, lay in a deep dripping pan with 
a very little boiling water, cover with a close-fitting lid or with a 
thick paste of flour and water. If the latter is used, a thickness 
or two of brown paper should be laid over the paste. Cook in a 
moderately hot oven from 2 to 3 hours, according to the size of 
the haunch, and before it is done quicken the fire, remove the 
paste and paper or cover, dredge the joint with flour, and baste 
well with butter until it is nicely frothed and of a delicate brown 
color. Garnish the knuckle with a frill of white paper, and serve 
with a gravy made from its own dripping, having first removed the 






370 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

fat. Have the dishes on which the venison is served and the plates 
very hot. Always serve with currant jelly. 

SADDLE OP VENISON ROASTED. 

Make deep gashes in it following the grain of the meat, and fill 
these with pieces of salt pork. Bake like mutton, but baste very 
often, as the flesh is dry. Allow 15 minutes to the pound. Serve 
with brown gravy and currant jelly. 

VENISON STEAK BROILED. 

Lay the steak on a well-greased gridiron over hot coals. Broil 
like beefsteak, turning often. Venison steak requires longer cook- 
ing than beef. When done, butter both sides, and sprinkle with 
salt and pepper. Currant jelly may be melted and poured over it. 
All dishes used for venison must be very hot. 

WOODCOCK. 

Woodcock may be cooked as quail, or fried 2 minutes in boiling 
lard with a bit of bacon tied on the breast. For frying, tie the 
legs close to the body, and the head under the wing. Serve on 
toast. Or, split them through the back and broil, basting with 
butter, and serving on toast. They ma} r also be roasted whole be- 
fore the fire in 15 or 20 minutes. 

LAMB AND MUTTON. 

Buy lamb and mutton by the quantity, as it improves with keep- 
ing. In cold weather it will remain good some weeks, in hot 
weather, but a few days, even in a refrigerator. If an ice chest is 
not at hand, and a garden plot is available, wrap mutton in a clean 
white cloth, bury it deep in the ground, cover it tightly and leave 
over night. It must be cooked the next day. 

The French method of beating the leg and saddle of mutton 
until tender under pressure, and giving a few heavy strokes of the 
rolling-pin to chops and cutlets, greatly improves the meat, but it 
must be cooked immediately. 

Lamb should be cooked thoroughly, while mutton is best under- 
done. The plates must be very hot on which these meats arc 
served. 

LAMB OR MUTTON CHOPS BROILED. 

The breast chops are most attractive in appearance, particularly 



UKATs. ;;71 

if "Frenched," that is, having the bone cleaned from the meat; 
but the meat of the loin chops is sweeter and firmer. Cut French 
chops three-fourths of an inch, and loin chops an inch thick. 
Heat the gridiron very hot, grease it, place it over a clear scorch- 
ing fire, lay on the chops, turning them every few seconds to sear 
them, and prevent burning. They are cooked when the meat is 
firm under the pressure, not the pricking, of a fork. Lay on a hot 
platter, butter generously, and sprinkle with salt and pepper. 

French chops should have frilled paper covering their handles, 
and be laid*in a circle on a platter around a mound of French or 
green peas. 

LAMB OR MUTTON CHOPS PRIED. 

Season with salt and pepper, put in a skillet, cover closely, and 
fry 5 minutes, turning over once ; clip each chop in beaten egg, 
then in cracker or bread crumbs, and fry till tender or nicelv 
browned on each side. Or, put in the oven in a dripping pan, 
with a little water, salt and pepper; baste frequently and bake 
until brown. 

LAMB OR MUTTON FRICASSEE. 

Cut the meat into pieces suitable for serving. Rub with salt 
and flour, and fry brown in butter. Put into a stew kettle, cover 
with boiling water and cook gently until tender. Take tip, remove 
the bones, which should slip out easily, make a brown sauce with 
the liquor and pour over the meat. Serve with asparagus and 
macaroni boiled until tender, or peas, well done. Salt and pepper 
should be added to the brown sauce. Cranberry jelly or tomatoes 
stewed with crumbed cracker may be served with lamb or mutton. 

LAMB OR MUTTON ROASTED. 

Have the oven very hot. Lay the roast, whether leg or loin, 
into the dripping pan, and rub it all over with flour ; put bits of 
butter on the top and a lump in the pan, and set into the oven for 
30 minutes, or until it begins to brown nicely. Add a little boil- 
ing water, salt the roast, baste frequently, and if not in a covered 
pan, turn it when half cooked. Allow from 15 to 20 minutes to 
the pound, and keep sufficient water in the pan for basting. When 
done remove to a hot platter. The pan gravy should be sufficient 
in quantity and thickness to serve, but add water or flour if neces- 



372 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

saiy, stirring well to keep from burning, and pour into a boat. 
Serve lamb with mint sauce, and mutton with currant jelly and 
turnips. 

LAMB ROASTED. 

Prepare a hind quarter of lamb by stuffing with fine bread 
crumbs, pepper, salt, butter, sage and summer-savory. Sew the 
flap up over the stuffing to keep it in place. Give it a good rub- 
bing with flour, salt and pepper, and roast as beef. A piece of 
butter the size of an egg and a cup of boiling water in the pan is 
liked by many and makes a good baste. Oysters o» onions may 
be added to the stuffing if they are liked. Serve with green peas 
and crab apple or lemon jelly. 

BREAST OF LAMB ROASTED. 

Have the bones removed from the fore quarter. Lay on a board 
and wipe carefully. Prepare a nice dressing of bread crumbs, 
spiced according to taste, and fill the breast of the lamb. Roll to- 
gether, tie up carefully, brown in hot butter, and lay it in a drip- 
ping pan, in which is a little hot water. Sprinkle with flour and 
salt, cover with an inverted pan, and bake slowly until done. Or, 
it may be cooked in this manner in an iron pot on the stove. It 
is especially nice served cold. 

LAMBS TONGUES BOILED. 

Wash them, drop into cold salted water and boil slowly 2 hours. 
When tender, slip off the skins and lay on a hot platter. Make a 
gravy of some of the liquor by thickening with flour ; add pepper and 
pour over the tongues. Or, serve cold. Garnish with slices of 
hard-boiled eggs and lemons. A stew ma}' be made by using the 
liquor left from boiling the tongues, heating and adding a few slices 
of onion, potato, carrot and turnip if liked, a bunch of sweet herbs 
and celery, and cooking them until half done. Rub equal quanti- 
ties of butter and flour together, add to the stew with the tongues, 
season and let all simmer gently until done. 

LAMB STEWED WITH PEAS. 

Cut the neck or breast in pieces, put it in a saucepan with salt 
pork, sliced thin, and water to cover it ; cover close and stew until 
the meat is tender, then skim clear, add a quart of shelled green peas, 
and hot water, if necessary ; cover till the peas are tender then add a 



WKATS. 373 

bit, of butter rolled in flour, and pepper to taste ; let simmer for a few 
minutes and serve. 

MUTTON BROTH. 

A piece of mutton, cleared from the fat, and stewed slowly 4 
hours will, if cooked in cold water, impart so much of its juice to the 
water as to make a most healthful broth for invalids or old people. 

BOILED MUTTON WITH CAPER SAUCE. 

Have ready a pot of boiling water ; throw in 1 tablespoon salt ; 
wash a leg of mutton and rub salt through it. If it is to be rare, 
cook 2 hours ; if well done, 3 hours or longer, according to size. 
Boil a pint of milk, thicken smoothly with flour, add butter, salt, 
pepper, and two tablespoons capers, or mint sauce. Serve rice with 
it as a vegetable. 

LEG OF MUTTON A LA VENISON. 
1 tablespoon salt, 1 tablespoon made mustard, 

1 tablespoon celery salt, 1 tablespoon brown sugar, 
1 tablespoon pepper, 1 tablespoon allspice, 

1 tablespoon sweet herbs mixed and powdered. 
Remove all rough fat from a leg of mutton, lay in a deep earthen 
dish, and rub into the meat very thoroughly the spices and herbs 
thoroughly mixed. After these have been rubbed into all parts of 
the meat, pour over it slowly a teacup of good vinegar, cover tightly 
and set in a cool place for 4 or 5 days, turning the ham, and basting 
it with liquid 3 or 4 times a day. To cook put a quart of boiling 
water into a clean kettle, place the ham just as taken from the pickle, 
upon a rack or inverted tin pan in the kettle and do not let the 
water touch the meat. Add a cup of hot water to the pickle, and 
baste the ham with it. When cooked, thicken the gravy with 
Hour, strain, and serve it with the meat and currant jelly. 

PORK. 

Pork should be eaten sparingly except in very cold weather, and 
it always requires thorough cooking. The roasting pieces are the 
shoulder, sparerib, leg and loin, and few need to be introduced to 
a little roast pig, whose toothsome qualities Charles Lamb has so 
quaintly and wittily described. 

BACON. 

Remove the rind, cut in slices 4 inches long and a quarter of an 



374 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

inch thick, lay in a hot spider and fry until nicely browned on 
both sides. 

PORK AND BEANS. 

Pick over carefully a quart of beans and let them soak all night ; 
in the morning wash and drain in another water, boil in cold water 
30 minutes; when done the skin of a bean will crack if taken out 
and blown upon ; drain, and pour in an earthen pot. Put in the 
center half or three-fourths of a pound of well-washed salt pork 
with the rind scored in slices or squares, and uppermost ; season 
with salt, cover with hot wate*, and bake 12 hours or longer in a 
moderate oven, adding hot water as needed ; they can not be baked 
too long. Keep covered so that they will not burn on the top, 
but remove the cover an hour or two before serving, to brown the 
top and crisp the pork. It is allowed to remain in the oven all 
night, and browned in the morning. . Serve them in the dish in 
which they are cooked, and have enough left to know the luxury 
of cold beans, or baked beans warmed over. If salt pork is too 
robust for the appetites to be served, season delicately with salt, 
pepper, and a little butter, and roast a fresh sparerib to serve with 
them. A tablespoon of molasses may be added to give the re- 
quired color. Serve with Boston brown bread, or a bread made 
of rye and Indian meal. 

PORK CHOPS AND STEAKS. 

These are cut from the rib, the loin or the leg, and may be 
broiled or fried. Rib chops are best for broiling and should be 
neatly trimmed. Broil over a clear fire till well done, lay on a 
plate and dust with salt and pepper. To fry chops : Heat the 
spider, and butter it, lay in the chops or steaks, after salting and 
dipping either in flour, or eggs and bread crumbs. Cover and 
cook 15 minutes over a bright fire. Turn the meat and draw the 
spider back from the strong heat, and cook slowly 30 or 40 min- 
utes longer. If there is a large amount of fat in the pan pour off 
part of it. If the flavor of sage is liked, dust a little over the 
meat when setting it back for slower cooking. Leave a little fat 
in the spider, thicken with flour, add a little milk or water and let 
it boil. Put the gravy into a boat and serve with cabbage salad or 
currant jelly. 



MEATS. 375 

FRICATELLI. 

Chop raw fresh pork very fine, add a little salt, plent} r of pepper. 
2 small onions chopped fine, half as much bread as there is incut. 
soaked until soft, and 2 eggs ; mix well together, make into oblong 
patties, and fry like oj^sters. These are nice for breakfast ; if 
used for supper, serve with sliced lemon. 

SALT PORK FRIED. 

Cut in thin slices, and freshen by letting it lie an hour or two in 
cold water, or milk and water, roll in flour and fry till crisp; if in a 
hurry, pour boiling water on the slices, let stand a few minutes, 
drain, roll in flour and fry as before ; drain off most of the fat from 
the pan, stir in while hot one or two tablespoons flour, about half a 
pint new milk, a little pepper, and salt if needed ; let boil and pour 
into a gravj* dish. 

HAM BOILED. 

If the ham is very dry or salt, soak in cold water for several 
hours or over night, otherwise cover it with boiling water and when 
cool enough wash and scrape clean ; put it in a large kettle or 
boiler, cover with cold water and let simmer gently from 4 to 8 
hours, allowing 20 minutes to the pound. It is done when the 
small bone can be drawn out easily. When sufficiently cool draw 
off the skin, place the lean side downward, dot the fat with whole 
cloves, dust with fine bread crumbs and brown in a moderate oven. 
If very fat let the ham remain there from 1 to 2 hours as it draws 
out the fat. Or, brush the ham with the white of an egg and 
cover with a mixture of bread crumbs, pepper and sugar, or cover 
with a cake icing, and brown ; or, quarter 2 onions, stick whole 
allspice and black pepper in the quarters, with a knife make slits 
in the outside of the ham in which put the onions, place in a drip- 
ping pan, lay parsley around, and bake till nicely browned. Or, 
after boiling and peeling, dust with sugar, and pass a hot knife 
over it until it forms a caramel glaze, and serve without baking. 
Another way is to glaze when cool with strong meat jelly or any 
savory jelly at hand, boiled down rapidly without burning until it 
is like glue. The nicest portion of a boiled ham may be served 
in slices, and the ragged parts, and odds and ends chopped fine for 
sandwiches, or omelets. Serve with currant jelly. 



370 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

BONED HAM. 

Having soaked a well- cured ham in tepid water over night, boil 
it perfectly tender, putting it on in warm water ; take up in a 
wooden tray, Cool, remove the bone carefully, press the ham again 
into shape, return to the boiling liquor, take the pot from the fire, 
and let the ham remain in it till cold. Cut across and serve cold. 

HAM BROILED. 

If possible use slices cut from a ham previously boiled. Heat 
the broiler, lay on slices half an inch thick, turn often until they 
are well browned. Serve at once. Or, cut the ham in thin slices, 
trim off most of the fat, place on a hot gridiron, and broil until 
the fat readily flows out and the meat is slightly browned ; take 
from the gridiron with a knife and fork, drop into a pan of cold 
water, return again to the gridiron, and repeat the process until the 
ham is done ; place on a hot platter, add a few lumps of butter, and 
serve at once. Pickled pork and breakfast bacon may be broiled 
ia the same way. 

HAM FRIED. 

It is more wholesome to fry ham that has been previously boiled. 
There is never any doubt as to its being thoroughly cooked, 
and the taste is more delicate. Heat the frying pan, lay in the 
slices of ham, turn to prevent burning, and serve when the fat has 
a transparent appearance. Or, place slices of raw ham in boiling 
water and cook till tender, brown in a frying pan and lay on a 
platter. Fry some eggs, dip the fat over them to avoid turning, 
take them up carefully and lay them on the slices of ham. 

COLD HAM. 

Make a sauce by melting a half glass of currant jelly, a tea- 
spoon of butter, and a little pepper. When hot lay in a few thin 
slices of ham and let it boil 1 minute. Serve hot. Or, make a 
nice brown sauce by boiling up the scraps of ham in a stewpan 
with a little water. Add half a cup of thick cream to the strained 
liquor and thicken with browned flour rubbed smooth with a piece 
of butter. Boil up slices of ham in this sauce and serve with 
browned potatoes, or potato cakes, and toasted rye bread well 
buttered. 



MEATS. o77 

HAM PORCUPINE. 

When a ham has been nicely boiled and peeled, stick all over 
with cloves and serve whole. 

A LITTLE PIG ROASTED. 

Take a pig from 4 to 6 weeks old, and see that it is well cleaned, 
and washed. Make a dressing of bread crumbs, butter, salt, pep- 
per, sage, and an egg ; an onion chopped fine may be added if the 
flavor is liked. Fill the pig, sew it up, and place it on its knees, 
or with the front legs forward, rub with butter, salt and flour, put 
into a pan in a moderate oven with a little boiling water. Put a 
clean piece of wood between the jaws to keep them a little apart. 
At first it must bake very slowly, but the heat may be increased 
later. Baste often, particularly at the last. In about 3 hours 
take from the oven, remove the wood from the mouth, and substi- 
tute a corn cob, a small red apple, or a cucumber pickle. Serve 
with apple sauce. Or, make a dressing of 2 quarts of corn meal 
salted as if for bread, and mix to a stiff bread with boiling water ; 
bake in breadpans. After this is baked brown, break it up, and 
add to it one-fourth pound of butter, pepper to taste, and thyrne. 
Fill the pig till plump, sew it up, and place it on its knees in the 
pan, which fill with as much water as will cook it. Baste it very 
frequently with the gravy. Serve immediately when done. A 
cabbage salad should be served with it. 

PORK ROASTED. 

1 loin of pork, % teaspoon fine sage, 

1 onion, K teaspoon salt, 

2 tablespoons butter, X teaspoon pepper, 

3 tablespoons bread crumbs. 
Separate each joint of the loin with the chopper, and make an in- 
cision with a knife in the thick part of the pork. Prepare a dress- 
ing by mixing the bread crumbs, the onion, finely chopped, the 
sage, pepper, salt and butter ; when all is thoroughly mixed, press 
the dressing into the incision in the pork, and sew the edges to- 
gether. Butter well a sheet of paper, wrap the loin in this, secur- 
ing it with twine. Bake in a dry baking pan, in a brisk oven, 
basting immediately and constantly as the grease draws out, and 
roast thoroughly, allowing 20 minutes to the pound and 20 min- 
utes lunger. Serve with apple sauce or apple fritters. Or, Leave 



378 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

the skin on the loin, score it in small squares to make the old- 
fashioned "cracklin. " Salt, and dust with powdered sage. Bake 
in a moderate oven, with a little boiling water in the pan, and 
baste frequently. Serve with apple sauce, cabbage salad, or 
pickled peaches. 

SAUSAGES. 

Grease the spider, and when hot lay in it the meat made in little 
flat cakes and dusted with flour. Cover the pan and cook slowly. 
Turn them often to brown them, and to avoid burning. They 
should be done in 30 or 45 minutes. Or, bake in a pan in the 
oven just as for frying. Apple in some form should be served 
with sausages. 

SPARERIB ROAST. 

Trim off the rough ends neatly, crack the ribs across the middle, 
rub with salt and sprinkle with pepper ; fold over, stuff with tur- 
key dressing, sew up tightly, place in the dripping pan with a pint 
of water and baste frequently, turning it over once that both sides 
may be equally browned. 

TENDERLOINS. 

Split the tenderloins, dust them with salt, pepper, and flour, and 
lay in a hot buttered spider. Turn them often, and if there is not 
fat enough in the tenderloins to cook them nicely add more butter. 
When done, dredge flour into the spider, and as it bubbles pour in 
a little milk or water. Boil up and pour around the tenderloins. 
Serve with cranberry sauce or any sour jelly. 

POULTRY. 

In choosing fowls select those with smooth legs and moist feet, 
unless an old bird is desired. The skin should be tender, and the 
breast bone should yield easily to pressure. Young ducks are 
tender under the wing, have a Ann, thick breast, and transparent 
feet. The skin of a young goose is tender, the Dreast plump, the 
bill and feet yellow. A "green goose" is four months old. An 
old duck or goose is worthless for eating. 

Never purchase fowls which have lain without being dressed, 
since the entrails give a sour, foul taste to the bird, and the gib- 
lets are often spoiled from that cause. If dressed birds cannot be 



MEATS, 379 

found, buy live ones unci have them properly prepared. The Hu- 
mane Society advise cutting the large vein in the throat with a 
sharp pointed knife as the best method of killing poultry. Then 
hang up the bird until the blood ceases to drop, as thorough bleed- 
ing renders the meat more wholesome. It may be dry-picked or 
scalded. In either case avoid breaking the skin while plucking 
the bird. In scalding, dip the fowl in and out of a boiler or ket- 
tle of boiling water, being careful not to scald enough to set instead 
of loosen the feathers ; place it on a board with the head towards 
the worker, pull the feathers in the direction they naturally lie, 
and remove all the pinfeathers with a knife or pair of tweezers ; 
singe, but not smoke, over blazing paper, place on a meat board, 
and with a sharp knife cut off the legs a little below the knee, to 
prevent the muscles from shrinking away from the joint, and re- 
move the oil bag above the tail ; slit the skin at the back of the 
neck and cut off the bone close to the shoulders, leaving a good 
length of skin to fasten down later. Draw down the skin in front 
and remove the crop and windpipe; cut around the vent, only 
through the skin, and slip the knife up toward the breastbone, 
put in the finger and draw out all the entrails, taking care not to 
break the gall, as no washing can remove the bitter taint left on 
every spot it touches. Wipe carefully with a wet, and a dry cloth, 
and it is ready for use. Cut the liver from the gall bladder, trim 
off the corded edge of the heart, press out the clotted blood, cut 
and draw off the outer covering of the gizzard carefully, that the 
sand bag may be thrown away whole, and wash all the giblets 
thoroughly. 

To prepare for roasting : Make a dressing, rub the inside of the 
fowl with salt, and stuff the breast through the neck, then the body, 
and sew up both openings with strong, soft thread, or the .skin of 
the neck may be fastened on the back with a tiny skewer. Press 
up the legs close to the body and skewer or tie them carefully, let 
ting the twine pass around the ends of the legs under and around 
the tail. Double the wings and fasten them close to the body with 
a string, or run a skewer through them. It is convenient for a 
busy housekeeper to have the fowl stuffed and trussed the day be- 
fore using, and the bird has a better flavor. 



380 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

To cut up a chicken : Cut off the feet a little below the first 
joint, and the wings and legs at the joint which unites them to the 
body, separating the first frotn the second joints of the leg ; then 
with the left hand hold the breast of the chicken, bend back the 
rump until the joint in the back separates, when cut it clean 
through. Cut this part in two by running a sharp knife through 
the backbone ; separate the back and the breast, and commence at 
the high part of the breast and cut down toward the neck, taking 
off the part of the breast with the wishbone. Cut off the end of the 
breastbone, and split the remainder through the middle. Divide 
the rib piece of the backbone, and the chicken will then be cut 
into fourteen pieces. Or it may be left in fewer pieces by omitting 
to split the upper and lower halves of the back, or to take the end 
from the breastbone before splitting it. 

Young chickens should be split with a sharp knife through the 
back, pressed apart, and cut down through the breast if desired. 
In broiling chickens the danger of under cooking or burning is 
avoided by breaking the breastbone slightly with a rolling-pin. 

Poultry should be kept in a cold place, but freezing destroys the 
flavor. Wrap in a cloth to keep moist, hang or lay the bird 
breast downward on the shelf, and if there is danger of its spoil- 
ing, parboil after cleaning it. Poultry improves by keeping several 
days. The garnishes for turkey and chicken are fried oysters, 
forcemeat balls, slices of lemon, parsley, and celery tufts. 

CHICKENS BAKED. 

Dress the chickens and cut them in two, wipe perfectly dry and 
put in a dripping pan, bone side down, without any water ; have 
a hot oven, and, if the chickens are young, half an hour's cooking- 
will be sufficient. Take out and season with butter, salt and pep- 
per ; pack one above another as closely as possible, and place in 
a pan over boiling water, covering them closely. Or, cut the 
chickens into 9 pieces and wipe with a wet and a dry cloth. Put 
2 tablespoons butter into a dripping pan, half a pint hot water, lay 
in the pieces, place in the oven and bake half an hour ; turn when 
a light brown, and add salt-and pepper ; when done take out in a dish 
and keep hot. Set the dripping pan on the stove, add half a pint 
boiling water, and 1 tablespoon flour mixed with half a cup cream. 



MEATS. S81 

Cook thoroughly, stir constantly to- prevent burning and to make 
the gravy smooth. Or, the chicken ma}' be split down the back, 
spread open, and held in shape with a skewer passing across 
through the wings, and laid in a covered dripping pan or patent 
baker with 3 tablespoons butter; sprinkle with salt and pepper. 
When half done turn the chicken. It will require an nour's baking, 
and should be a golden brown when done. Spread with butter, 
serve on a hot platter garnished with parsley. 

CrilCKEN BAKED WITH PARSNIPS. 

Wash, scrape, and quarter some parsnips, and parboil 20 min- 
utes ; prepare a young chicken by splitting down the back, place it 
in a dripping pan, skin side up, lay the parsnips around the 
chicken, sprinkle with salt and pepper, and add a lump of butter 
the size of an egg, or 2 or 3 slices pickled pork ; put enough water 
in the pan to prevent burning, place in the oven and bake until 
the chicken and parsnips are a delicate brown ; garnish the chicken 
with the parsnips and celery. Add a little flour to the pan gravy, 
a cup of cream, cook till it thickens and serve in a boat. 

CHICKEN BOILED. 

Prepare as for roasting, using an onion dressing if liked, and 
put into a saucepan with cold water to cover. Cover closely and 
cook slowly from 1£ to 3 hours according to the age and tough- 
ness of the fowl. When tender put in a warm place, take 1 pint 
of the liquor and thicken with 1 tablespoon flour rubbed smooth 
with 2 tablespoons butter. Remove from the fire and add the yolks 
of 2 eggs, beaten with 2 tablespoons cream. Stir well and drop in 
a little lemon juice. Serve the chicken with a border of rice or 
mashed potato. 

CHICKEN BREADED. 

Cut a tender chicken into pieces as for frying, roll in the beaten 
yolks of 2 eggs, and finely-grated bread crumbs ; season with 
chopped parsley, pepper and salt; place in the dripping pan, dot 
with bits of butter, add a little water, bake slowly, basting often. 
When done, take out the chicken and make a gravy by adding 
Hour smoothed with butter, and either cream or milk to make a 
sufficient quantity. Season to taste. After preparing in this man- 
ner it may be fried in equal parts of lard and butter. 






MSL' HOUSEKEEPER COOR BOOK. 

CHICKEN BROILED. 

Split the chicken down the back, lay it on a hot gridiron with 
the bone side down, cover, and place over wood coals. Broil two- 
thirds of the time with the bone next the fire, then turn and brown 
nicety. Baste with melted butter while cooking, to prevent the 
drying of the meat, but avoid scorching it. Unless it is a large 
chicken it will cook in half an hour. Serve with melted butter, 
pepper and salt, and garnish with parslej 7 . 

CHICKEN IN CREAM. 

Select a plump, young chicken ; clean it nicely and divide into 
pieces. Boll or dredge it in flour and fry to a golden brown in 
mixed butter and lard. Arrange neatly on a dish and pour over 
it a sauce made of a cup of cream brought to the boiling point, 
into which are stirred when taken from the fire the beaten 3 r olks of 
2 eggs, salt and pepper and a few drops of lemon juice. Garnish 
with parsley, and serve at once. 

CHICKEN FRICASSEE 1. 

Cut the chicken into pieces, and boil it slowly until tender in 
sufficient water to cover it, then drain and fry it brown in plenty 
of nice butter. Bemove it to a dish, thicken the butter with flour, 
and add the liquor in the kettle, making a rich gravy. Lay small 
slices of toasted bread in the dish with the chicken and pour the 
gravy over all, after seasoning it. 

CHICKEN FRICASSEE 2. 

Cut up an old fowl, cover with cold water and cook slowly until 
tender with half a pound of salt pork, and slices of onion if liked. 
Bemove the chicken, mix some flour smoothly with a cup of milk, 
stir into the grav} T , adding salt, pepper, and a little chopped pars- 
ley. Pour over the chicken and serve. Or, put the chicken into 
a saucepan with barely enough water to cover and stew gently until 
tender ; have a hot frying pan with a few slices of salt pork, drain 
the chicken and fry a rich brown ; take the chicken and bits of 
pork from the pan, pour in the broth, thicken with flour mixed 
smooth with a little water, and season with cayenne pepper ; put the 
chicken and pork back into the gravy, let simmer a few minutes, 
take off, stir in 2 well-beaten eggs and serve very hot. 



MEATS. 383 

CHICKEN FRIED. 

Put equal quantities of butter and lard in a hot frying pan. If 
the chicken has been previously cooked it will need no more salt. 
Dredge with flour, and fry a nice brown on each side. Make a gravy 
by putting 2 tablespoons flour into the hot fat and stirring until 
brown; then add 1 pint sweet milk or cream, with salt and 
pepper. Serve in a gravy boat. Or, have slices of salt pork 
browned in the frying pan. Take out, and lay the chicken, dredged 
with flour and salt or rolled in egg and bread crumbs, into the hot 
fat. Fry slowly, and turn frequent^ to prevent burning. Stir 2 
tablespoons flour into the gravy and add half a cup of coffee with 2 
tablespoons sweet cream. Bring to a boil and serve. 

FRIED GUMBO. 

Cut up 2 young chickens, and fry in a skillet; when brown but 
not scorched, put into a pot with 1 quart finely-chopped okra, 4 
large tomatoes, and 2 onions chopped fine ; cover with boiling 
water, boil very slowly, and keep the kettle tightly closed ; add 
boiling water as it wastes, and simmer slowly 3 hours ; season with 
salt, pepper, and a little butter and flour rubbed together ; serve 
with boiled rice. Garnish with slices of lemon. 

CHICKEN JELLIED — 1. 

Boil 2 fowls until the meat will slip easily from the bones ; let 
the water be reduced to about 1 pint in boiling ; remove all 
gristle, skin, fat and bones ; place the meat in a wet mould ; skim 
the fat from the liquor ; add pepper and salt, lemon juice, aud one- 
half ounce of Nelson's or Cox's gelatine dissolved in water. Boil 
and pour it hot over the chicken. The liquor must be seasoned 
pretty highly, for the chicken absorbs it. Set away to cool. When 
served garnish with slices of hard-boiled eggs and parsley, or slices 
of lemon and celery tops. 

CHICKEN JELLIED — 2. 

Boil a chicken in as little water as possible, until the meat, falls 
from the bones ; chop rather fine, and season with pepper and salt, 
Rinse a mould in cold water and place on the bottom slices of 
hard-boiled eggs, then a layer of chicken, then layers of eggs and 
meat alternately until the mould is nearly full. Boil down the 
Liquor to 1 cup, season with salt and pepper, and pour over the meat, 



384 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

Set in a cool place over night, turn out, garnish with celery and 
serve with a salad. Or, when the liquor is ready to pour over the 
chicken, cool a little, take out half a cup, and add an equal quan- 
tity of nice salad dressing. Fill the mould with this mixed with 
the chicken. When cold, serve garnished with celery, and ac- 
companied with a salad. Veal maj r be used instead of chicken. 

CHICKEN PICKLED. 

Boil 4 chickens till tender enough for the meat to fall from the 
bones. Remove the skin, bones, gristle and fat, put in a stone jar, 
and pour over it 3 pints cold vinegar, and 1^ pints of the water in 
which the chickens were boiled ; add salt, pepper and spices ; use 
in 2 days. 

CHICKEN PRESSED. 

Cut up the fowls and place in a kettle with a tight cover, so as 
to retain the steam ; put 2 cups of water on the chicken, and cook 
until the meat cleaves easily from the bones ; remove the bones, 
skin, gristle and fat, cut or chop the meat, white and dark sepa- 
rately, as for chicken salad ; season well, put into a mould in lay- 
ers and pour the juice in which it was cooked over it. Cover and 
lay on a heavy weight. Many chop all the meat together, add 1 
pounded cracker to the broth, and mix all thoroughly before put- 
ting in the mould; either way is nice. Boned turkey may be 
prepared in the same way, slicing instead of chopping. Cut in 
slices, and serve garnished with celery leaves or slices of lemon. 

CHICKEN PIE. 

Prepare 2 chickens according to directions. Cut up and stew in 
a very little water till tender. Line a deep baking dish with good 
pastiy, one-quarter inch thick, suet paste, or a rich baking powder 
dough. Glaze the latter with the white of an egg, or cut out a 
small round from the center, if pastry is used, to prevent the soak- 
ing of the crust. Put the chicken into the dish, slipping off the 
meat from the rib portions; sprinkle with salt, pepper and flour; 
drop in bits of butter, and when nearly full pour in 1 cup of broth 
and lay on the crust, with a small round cut out of the center. Or- 
nament the opening with a braid of the paste and bake 1 hour in a 
moderate oven. 



MEATS. 
CHICKEN PIE WITH OYSTERS. 

Stew a year old chicken until tender; drain off liquor from a 
quart of oysters, boil and skim it, line the sides of a deep dish 
with a rich crust, put in alternate layers of chicken and raw oys- 
ters until the dish is filled, seasoning each layer with pepper, salt 
and bits of butter, and dusting with flour; add the oyster liquor 
and a part of the chicken broth until the liquid is even with the top 
layer Cover loosely with a crust having an opening in the center 
to a low the steam to escape. If the liquor cooks away, add more 
broth. Bake 40 minutes in a moderate oven. 

CHICKEN ROASTED. 

Select young, plump and full-grown chickens. Clean them as 
directed. Make a dressing and fill the whole body or the breast 
alone. In the latter case put a large lump of butter into the body 
Push the legs up under the skin, and run a skewer through them 
and the body. Press the wings against the sides and skewer then, 
or tie wings and legs firmly to the body, and sew up the openings 
with thread. Put butter or slices of pork in the dripping pan 
ay the chickens on them, breasts down, first rubbing them with 
butter. If the pan is not tightly covered add when they begin to 
brown a cup of hot water. Baste every 10 minutes, and alio* 
from 15 to 20 minutes to the pound in baking. Turn in half an 
hour, and at the last hasting .dredge with a little flour When 
done the flesh should feel firm under pressure. Avoid pricking 
with a fork, and have a golden brown color. Remove the threads 
strings or skewers before serving. Put the giblets in hot water 
and stew while the chickens are roasting, pour off the water, chop 
the giblets fine, and add with 2 tablespoons Hour to the gravy of 
the roasted chickens. Add 1 cup boiling water, a little salt, and 
when it thickens serve in a boat. Or, the pan gravy may be used 
alone. Capons are roasted in the same way, and present an at- 
tractive appearance served on a bed of water-cresses. 

CHICKEN STEAMED. 

Rub the chicken on the inside with pepper and half a teaspoon 
of salt, wrap in a white cloth, place in a steamer as near the water 
as possible, cover, and steam H hours. Serve with a cream sauce 
or a gravy. The dressing is made as follows; Boil 1 pint f 



386 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK, 

liquor from the kettle without the fat, add cayenne pepper and 
half a teaspoon salt; stir 3 tablespoons flour into 1 cup cream 
until smooth, and mix with the gravy. Add celery salt or nut- 
meg, with lemon juice. Garnish with curled parsley, hard-boiled 
eggs, or celery and slices of lemon. 

CHICKEN STEW WITH DUMPLINGS. 

Cut up the chicken and stew slowly in as little water as possi- 
ble with a small piece of salt pork. A young bird will cook in 
less than an hour, an old one will take from 2 to 4 hours. About 
20 minutes before serving, freshen the fire, add salt and a little 
water to the stew, and drop in dumplings made from biscuit 
dough. Cover tightly, watch that the gravy does not burn, and 
serve the chicken on a platter with the dumplings around it, and 
the gravy poured over all. 

A chicken pot-pie is made the same wa} r , but the dough is rolled 
in shape to fit over the chicken in the kettle, and not dropped in in 
balls. Cut a large slit in the pie cover before laying in the kettle. 

DUCK ROASTED. 

It is essential that the ducks be tender ; if it is doubtful do not 
use at all, or stew them. Prepare as directed for fowls, and make 
a dressing in which onion and sage are used. Roast like chickens 
allowing 1 hour if the ducks are large ones. Serve with giblet 
or pan gravy, currant jell}' or cranberries, and green peas. 

DUCK STEWED. 

This is the only way it is possible to eat an old duck. After 
cleaning and washing, cut it up and put in a saucepan with just 
enough cold water to cover it. Have a tight-fitting cover, and 
heat gradually. Simmer slowly 2 or 3 hours with a little ham, a 
chopped onion, parsley and sage. When tender serve on slices of 
toast, over which is poured the gravy thickened with flour and sea- 
soned with salt, pepper and lemon juice. 

GOOSE ROASTED. 

A goose must be young and tender, and a "green goose " is the 
perfection of this fowl. Clean according to directions, and use 
chicken or duck dressing, or make one as follows : Boil an equal 
number of apples and onions with a little sage; put through a 
coarse sieve, season with pepper and salt, and make of the right 



MKATS. 887 

consistency with mashed potato, Stuff and truss the goose, rub 
with butter, dust with salt, and lay in a dripping pan on slices of 
salt pork, or put in a lump of butter, and 1 cup boiling water. 
Baste frequently; have the oven, after the first 15 minutes, of a 
moderate heat, and bake from 1£ to 3 houi-s, according to the size 
of the bird. Make a giblet gravy and serve with apple sauce. 

GUINEA FOWL. 

A young fowl is nice eating and when well cooked is similar to 
pheasant or partridge. Select one which is tender under the wings, 
whose breastbone bends on pressure, and has legs smooth and of a 
pale yellow tinge. Broil or roast like chickens, and serve with a 
salad. 

PIGEON BROILED. 

Prepare according to directions. Split down the back, lay on a 
very hot buttered gridiron, with the bone side toward the coals. 
Baste with butter, keep covered, turn a few minutes before it is 
done, then take off and lay on buttered toast. Dust with salt and 
pepper, add butter, pour on the juice which escaped while broiling, 
garnish with parsley, and serve. Time for broiling, 15 minutes. 

PIGEON PIE. 

Clean and truss tame pigeons, stuff as chicken, sew up the open- 
ings, rub with butter and lay in a deep earthen pan, buttered 
and having the sides lined with a good thick paste. Allow 1 .', 
ounces butter to a pigeon, cut in bits and put over them ; sprinkle 
with salt, pepper, finely-chopped parsley, 1 tablespoon flour, and 
add 1 cup or more water. Cover with thick, rich paste, cut out a 
small round from the center, lay a braid of pastry around it, put 
into a moderate oven and bake from 1 to 1^- hours. The pigeons 
may be halved or quartered. Serve with currant jell}-. 

PIGEONS ROASTED. 

Clean and stuff the pigeons as for roast chickens. Rub them 
with butter, sprinkle with salt, and lay on slices of salt pork in a 
dripping pan, with a little hot water. Butter may be used instead 
of pork. Bake 30 minutes in a hot oven, basting frequently, and 
turning that they may be browned. Serve on a bed of water- 
cresses, with pan or giblet gravy, and cranberries or currant jelly. 



388 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

TURKEY BOILED. 

Wash the turkey thoroughly, wipe dry and rub salt through it ; 
fill with a dressing of bread and butter, moistened with milk and 
oyster juice, seasoned with salt and pepper, and a pint of raw 
oysters cut in pieces ; ■ tie the legs and wings close to the body, 
place in salted boiling water with the breast downward, skim often, 
boil slowly, allowing 20 minutes to the pound ; sei've with oyster 
sauce. It is an old-fashioned custom to serve a ham or smoked 
tongue along with a boiled turkey. The broth from the turkey 
makes an excellent soup boiled with rice and seasoned. 

TURKEY BONED. 

With a sharp knife slit the skin down the back, and raising one 
side at a time with the fingers, separate the flesh from the bones, 
until the wings and legs are reached. Unjoint these from the 
body, and cutting through to the bone, turn back the flesh and 
remove the bones ; the flesh may be re-shaped by stuffing. Stuff 
with forcemeat, made of cold lamb or veal and a little pork, 
chopped fine and seasoned with salt, pepper, sage or savory, and 
the juice of 1 lemon ; sew into shape, and press the wings and 
legs close to the body, and tie all firmly so that the upper surface 
may be plump and smooth for the carver. Lard with 3 rows on 
the top, and bake until thoroughly done, basting often with salt 
and water, and a little butter. Carve across in slices and serve 
with tomato sauce. Or, when boned and stuffed, roll tight in a 
strong, clean cloth, tie with tape in the centre and near the ends, 
firmly with strong twine to make the roll compact and perfectly 
secure ; place in a rich stock, previously prepared by putting the 
bones in cold water with some herbs, an onion peeled and stuck 
with ten cloves, a sliced carrot and turnip, boiling and skimming 
until clear. Boil 4 or 5 hours, take up the turkey, wash the cloth, 
wrap up the turkey and place between 2 platters under a heav}' 
weight till the morning. Then strain the stock, remove the fat, 
and set over the fire ; add 2 ounces gelatine dissolved in cold 
water, and strain through flannel until perfectly clear ; pour it into 
2 shallow moulds, coloring one dark brown with caramel ; place 
the turkey on a dish and garnish with the jelly cut in fanciful 



MEATS. 380 

shapes, or put the turkey in a dish, pour the jelly over it, and 
serve when cold garnished with celery, parsley or cresses. 

TURKEY ROASTED. 

Select a fat young turkey — a hen turkey is smaller-boned and 
more delicately flavored than a gobbler — and it should be killed :it 
least 2 days before using. Clean and prepare according to direc- 
tions. It may be stuffed with a dressing made from stale bread 
crumbs, half a cup of butter, 1 egg, salt, pepper and sage to taste, 
moistened with a little hot water, or an oyster dressing made as 
follows : Remove the crusts from a loaf of stale bread and moisten 
them with hot water, pouring it off as soon as soft. Chop the 
remainder of the loaf, add 4 tablespoons melted butter, or twice 
that quantity if very rich dressing is desired, and 1 teaspoon each 
of pepper and salt. Drain off the liquor from 1 quart or 1 pint of 
oysters, bring it to a boil, skim and pour it over the bread crumbs, 
and add the soaked crusts. Beat in 3 eggs. Mix all well to- 
gether with the hands, and, if rather dry, acid a little sweet milk. 
Put a spoonful of the stuffing into the turkey, then 3 or 4 oysters 
—being careful not to break them. Continue adding stuffing and 
oysters until the turkey is filled. Or, fill with a chestnut dress- 
ing like this : Boil or roast the chestnuts, remove the shells, the 
brown skin, and mash them. Mix with sweet cream, add a little 
butter, and season with pepper and salt. Fill the turkey, but do 
not crowd in the dressing. Sew up the openings, and tie or skewer 
the legs and wings ; rub with salt, butter and flour. Boast in a 
patent baker, or cover tightly the dripping pan with another pan. 
Place in a moderate oven, lay bits of butter on the bird, and put 
half a cup of water into the pan ; baste once in 10 minutes, and 
turn the turkey occasionally to expose all parts to the heat; it 
should be moist and tender, and a golden brown all over when 
done. Watch carefully that the fire is not hot enough to burn nor 
cool enough to dry the bird. Allow 15 minutes to the pound for 
large turkeys, and 10 minutes for smaller ones. When two-thirds 
baked, dust a little flour on the breast and sides of the turkey and 
take care not to wash off the flour by basting ; give it time to 
blown, and then baste but do not take out of the oven until thor- 
oughly browned. If it is necessary to turn the turkey in the pan, use a 



890 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

towel, never a fork, as the juice will escape. In roasting a large 
turkey, 1 cup is a liberal allowance of butter, but less may be 
used, according to taste or necessity. When done the entire sur- 
face will be a rich, fluffy, brown crust. Cook the giblets in water 
while the turkey is roasting, then chop them very fine and add 
with a thin flour paste to the pan gravy ; season with salt and pep- 
per, add more water if needed, scrape the pan free from the rich 
particles that adhere to it, boil 5 minutes and serve. If the pan 
gravy is very fat, pour it off before adding the flour and water. 
Serve with cranberries and celery. 

ENGLISH ROAST TURKEY. 

Choose a turkey weighing from 8 to 10 pounds, kill it several 
days before cooking, prepare in the usual manner, stuff with bread 
crumbs rubbed fine, moisten with butter and 2 eggs, and season 
with salt, pepper, parsley, sage, thyme or sweet marjoram ; sew up, 
skewer, and place to roast on a rack within a dripping pan ; spread 
with bits of butter, turn and baste frequently with butter, pepper, 
salt and water ; a few minutes before it is done glaze with the 
white of an egg ; if it becomes too brown, cover with buttered 
paper. Dish the turkey, pour off most of the fat, add the chopped 
giblets, thicken with flour and butter rubbed together, stir well, 
boil thorough^, and serve in a gravy boat. Garnish with fried 
oysters, and serve with celery sauce and stewed gooseberries. 

VEAL. 

Veal should be of firm texture, of a pinkish color and not under 
six weeks old. It is best from ten to fourteen weeks, but it is 
sometimes found on the market much older. All young meat 
should be kept but a short time even in cold weather, and must 
be cooked slowly and thoroughly. 

VEAL CUTLETS FRIED. 

Fry slices of salt pork until crisp. Take out, and put into the 
spider the cutlets dipped in egg and cracker crumbs, or flour. A 
large quantity of fat is needed, and if salt pork is not convenient 
take equal parts of butter and lard. Salt the cutlets, cover and 
fry slowly 20 minutes before turning. Leave off the cover and 
when well browned take up and serve. Make a gravy with flour 



MEATS. 391 

and milk in the spicier, and serve it in a boat. Or, trim the cut- 
lets neatly, pound well, squeeze lemon juice over them, let stand 
an hour, dip in beaten egg and bread crumbs seasoned with pep- 
per and salt, put in a wire basket and plunge into boiling lard. 
The cutlets will be brown before they are cooked, which will re- 
quire 15 minutes, and the pan should be drawn aside to a cooler 
place to finish more slowly. Or, make a batter of half a pint of 
milk, a well-beaten egg, and flour ; fry the veal brown in sweet 
lard or beef drippings, dip it in the batter and fry again till brown ; 
drop spoonfuls of batter in the hot lard after the veal is taken up, 
and serve them on the meat ; put a little flour paste in the gravy 
with salt and pepper, let it come to a boil, and pour it over the 
whole. The veal should be cut thin, pounded, and cooked nearly 
an hour. Cracker crumbs and egg may be used instead of batter, 
but the skillet should then be kept covered, and the veal cooked 
slowly for half an hour over a moderate fire. 

calf's head. 

Clean well a calf's head. Remove the tongue and save sepa- 
rately with the brains. Wash well and soak an hour. Boil the 
head, heart and any small pieces of veal in cold water. As it 
comes near the boiling point, skim well, and when nearly done add 
the liver which has been previously scalded. Cook till tender and 
take up the whole carefully into a very large pan. Remove the skin, 
take out the bones and any gristle or hard pieces, mincing the 
flesh with a knife. Boil the brains 10 minutes, and add to the 
mass, with salt and pepper to taste. Three well-rolled crackers, or 
more, may be added if one does not care for so rich a meat. Wet 
until quite moist with the water in which it was boiled. Put into 
a well-buttered deep tin, and bake 15 minutes in a slow oven. 
Place in a cooler and serve in slices as pressed meat. Or, instead 
of mincing, the meat may be removed in pieces, the liver and 
heart sliced, laid in a figure on a platter, and garnished with pars- 
ley and sliced lemon. The brains may be boiled 10 minutes and 
added to a brown sauce. It is well to add a part of the salt 5 
minutes before the boiling is over. French mustard should be 
served with calf's head in whatever form it comes to the table. 



392 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

KIDNEYS. 

Many epicures are i'ond of kidneys, and they are cheap food, 
but it is better not to cultivate a liking for them, as eminent 
physicians have decided that they, as excretory organs in the ani- 
mal system, are very liable to become poisonous as well as poison 
carriers. However, an old recipe is given below, with the caution 
to soak the kidneys in salt and water at least 4 hours before cook- 
ing. 

KIDNEY STEWED. 

Soak the kidneys in salt and water 4 or 5 hours, and boil the 
night before using, till very tender ; turn the meat and gravy into 
a dish and cover. In the morning, boil for a few moments, thicken 
with flour and water, add part of an onion chopped very fine, pep- 
per, salt, and a lump of butter, and pour over toasted bread well 
buttered. 

LIVER BROILED. 

Cut the liver in thin slices, pour boiling water over it, and after 
5 minutes wipe dry and broil over hot coals till it looks mealy 
when gashed. While broiling, fry slices of salt pork to a crisp, 
do not burn it, and make a gravy by cooking flour in the fat and 
adding water. Trim off the edges of the liver, and cut it and the 
pork into dice and serve in the gravy, salting to taste. Serve with 
baked potatoes and tomatoes. 

LIVER FRIED. 

Soak 10 minutes in boiling water. Wipe dry, and cut in thin 
slices. Fry in lard or nice drippings until well done. Or, the 
slices may be rolled in cracker crumbs before frying, and a brown 
gravy poured over them. Serve with potatoes fried brown, or 
small baked potatoes, and cranberry sauce. Lemons cut in half 
may also be served on a fancy plate. 

LIVER AND BACON. 

Cut the liver in thick slices, pour boiling water over them, and 
let stand 10 minutes. Drain and dip in flour. Have a hot spider 
in which thin slices of bacon are cooking, lay in the liver, and fry 
a few minutes on each side. When nicely browned, pour in a lit- 
tle boiling water, cover tightly and let simmer slowly half an hour. 



MEATS. 393 

Take out the liver and bacon, thicken the gravy with a little flour, 
add salt, let it boil up and pour over the meat. 

VEAL LOAF. 

3 pounds minced real, cup stock, 

1 pound minced salt pork, Salt and pepper, 

1 cup fine cracker crumbs, 2 beaten eggs. 

Mix all the ingredients together, using brown gravy or water if 
there is no stock. Shape Into a firm loaf with the hands mid lay 
in a well-greased pan. Glaze with the white of an egg, dust with 
cracker crumbs after it has baked 45 minutes in a moderate oven. 
Bake 1 5 minutes longer and take carefully from the pan. A little 
tomato catsup mixed with the stock is an improvement. 

VEAL WITH OYSTERS. 

Fry 2 pounds of tender veal cut in thin bits, and dredged with 
flour, in sufficient hot lard to prevent sticking ; when nearly done 
add 14; pints of fine o} T sters, thicken with flour, season with salt 
and pepper, and cook until done. Serve hot in a covered dish. 

VEAL POT-PIE. 

Put 2 or 3 pounds of veal, a rib piece is good, cut in 12 pieces, 
in a quart of cold water ; make a quart of soda biscuit dough, take 
two-thirds of the dough, roll out one-fourth of an inch thick, cut in 
strips 1 inch wide by 3 long ; pare and slice 6 potatoes ; boil the 
veal till tender, take out all but 3 or 4 pieces, put in 2 handfuls of 
potatoes and several strips of dough ; then add pieces of veal and 
dough, seasoning with salt, pepper, and a little butter, until all the 
veal is in the pot ; cover with boiling water, take the rest of the 
dough, roll out the size of the pot, cut several holes to let the 
steam escape, and place over the whole. Put on a tight lid and 
boil gently 20 or 30 minutes without uncovering. 

FILLET OF VEAL ROASTED. 

Remove the bone and fill the space with a nice dressing. Fasten 
it together with skewers and wrap well with string. Rub it with 
butter, salt and flour. Put into a pan in which is a little boiling 
water and butter, and bake. Let the fire be very hot at first, but 
at the end of 30 minutes only moderate heat will be needed. 
Kaste often, and allow 20 minutes to the pound. When dime lake 
out the roast, add a little lemon juice, pepper, salt, and flour to 



394 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

make a smooth, thick gravy. Strain and serve in a boat. Serve 
with peas or tomatoes. 

LOIN OP VEAL ROASTED. 

Wash and rub thoroughly with salt and pepper, leaving in the 
kidney, around which put plenty of salt ; roll and let stand 2 hours ; 
make a dressing of bread crumbs, salt, pepper, and chopped pars- 
ley or thyme moistened with a little hot water, butter or chopped 
salt pork, and an egg. Unroll the veal, put the dressing well 
around the kidney, fold, and secure well with several yards white 
cotton twine, covering the meat in all directions ; place in the 
dripping pan with the thick side down, and bake in a hot oven ; 
in half an hour add a little hot water to the pan, and baste often ; 
in another half hour turn over the roast, and when nearly done, 
dredge lightly with flour, and baste with melted butter. Before 
serving, carefully remove the twine. A six-pound roast thus 
prepared will bake thoroughly tender in 2 hours. To make the 
gravy, skim off the fat if there is too much in the drippings, 
dredge flour into the pan, stir until it browns, add hot water if 
necessary, boil a few moments and serve in a gravy boat. Serve 
with green peas and lemon jelly. 

VEAL STEW. 

Boil 2^ pounds of the breast of veal 1 hour in water enough to 
cover, add 6 potatoes, and cook half an hour ; before taking off 
the stove, add one-half pint of milk and flour enough to thicken ; 
season to taste. If preferred, make a crust as for chicken pie, 
bake in 2 pie pans, place one of the crusts on the platter, pour 
over the stew, and cover with the other. Or, put a quarter of a 
pound of salt pork with the veal, season, and 20 minutes before 
the meat is done, drop in dumplings made of biscuit dough, and 
boil gently in the tightly covered kettle 30 minutes. If pork is 
not used, drop the same amount of butter into the stew before 
adding the dumplings. Serve with spinach. 

VEAL ROLLS. 

Cut veal or beefsteak very thin, in strips 3 inches wide and 
6 long. Take a thin piece of bread a little narrower and shorter. 
Butter both sides well, and lay on the strip of meat. Roll up 
tightly and fry in butter. The bread may also be spiced, or sage 



MEATS. 395 

or thyme used. When the roll is a golden brown, put it into a 
stew pan with enough water to cover, and stew slowly 2 hours. 
Remove to a hot platter. Make a brown gravy of the liquor and 
pour over the rolls. Salt should not be added until nearly done. 
Use the butter in which they were browned to rub up the flour in. 
When brought to the table, garnish with parsley. Mutton, lamb 
or the tenderloin of pork is good prepared in this way. 

SWEETBREADS. 

There are two sweetbreads, one round and firm called the heart 
sweetbread, and the other long and narrow, called the upper gland. 
Buy only perfectl}- fresh ones, and soak them in cold water and 
vinegar for an hour. Take out and put into salted cold water, 
heat gradually and boil 20 minutes. Drain, throw into cold water, 
and when cooled remove all possible of the fibres, strings and 
veins, without breaking the sweetbreads in pieces. They are now 
ready for use. They can be fried or larded, crumbed, and linked, 
broiled or served hot with a variety of sauces. 

SWEETBREADS BROILED. 

Prepare according to directions, roll in melted butter, and place 
on a hot gridiron ; turn often, dipping each time in butter, and 
cook till thoroughly done and delicately browned. Season with 
salt, pepper, and a few drops of lemon juice. 

SWEETBREADS FRICASSEED. 

Prepare as directed, and cut them in pieces an inch thick. Hub 
2 tablespoons butter with 2 tablespoons flour, put on the fire and 
add gradually enough stock or boiling water to make a gravy the 
thickness of cream, with pepper, salt and a little lemon juice. 
Heat the sweetbreads in the gravy, remove from the fire and add 
2 tablespoons of hot cream, 2 yolks of eggs beaten smooth with a 
little cold cream, and 1 tablespoon fine chopped parsley. Stir rap- 
idly. Set over hot water a few minutes before serving. 

SWEETBREADS FRIED. 

Prepare according to directions, and lard with narrow strips of 
salt pork. Lay into a hot, buttered spider and fry to a golden 
brown, turning often. Serve with green peas or asparagus. Or, 
cut in inch slices, dip in white of egg and bread crumbs, and in 
30 minutes put in a frying basket into boiling lard. In 5 min- 



896 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

utes drain and lay on brown paper within the oven door. Or, 
slice thin, sprinkle with salt, pepper, grated nutmeg, chopped 
parsley and lemon juice, dip into a batter made of 1 cup milk, 2 
eggs, 1 cup flour, a pinch of salt, and half a teaspoon baking pow- 
der, and fry like fritters. Drain on a brown paper in the mouth 
of the oven. Serve with tomato sauce in a boat. 

SWEETBREADS WITH MACARONI. 

Prepare the sweetbreads, fry, broil or crumb, and place in the 
center of a dish of boiled macaroni, over which cheese has been 
grated. Serve with tomato sauce. 

SWEETBREADS WITH MUSHROOMS. 

Prepare as for fricassee, and add to the cream sauce an equal 
amount of chopped mushrooms fried brown in butter, and heat all 
together. Serve on well-buttered toast. 

SWEETBREADS ROASTED. 

Prepare as directed, lard with salt pork, roast brown in a mod- 
erate oven, basting often with butter and water. Serve with white 
sauce or tomato sauce poured over them. For sweetbreads with 
green peas, lard 5 sweetbreads with strips of salt pork, put on the 
fire with half a pint of water, and stew slowly half an hour ; take 
out and put in a small dripping pan with a little butter and a 
sprinkle of flour ; brown slightly, add half a gill of mingled milk 
and water, and season with salt and pepper ; heat half a pint of 
cream, and stir it into the gravy. Have the peas ready, place the 
sweetbreads in the center of the dish, pour the gravy over and the 
peas around them. Or, roll them in egg and bread crumbs and 
lay on slices of bacon in a dripping pan. Sprinkle with pepper 
and salt, add a little rich stock, baste frequently, and when done 
to a rich brown, serve. 

MEAT SAUCES. 

There are two kinds of meat sauces, brown and white. A but- 
ter sauce or gravy, often used for meats, is a white sauce made 
very simply. White sauces are made by the addition of celery, 
cream, eggs or 03-sters, to a drawn butter sauce, and are used for 
asparagus, cauliflower, celery, poultry, eggs and fish. Gravies, or 



Mi: AT BAUCE8. 397 

sauces, thickened with Hour and water, stirred smooth, must be 
boiled at least eight minutes to thoroughly cook the flour. 

BUTTER SAUCE. 

Rub flour into three times the quantity of butter, in a dish placed 
on the stove, in order that its warmth will hasten the work. Or, 
put the batter in a frying pan, and when it bubbles, sift in the 
Hour and stir till smooth and frothy. Add 1 pint boiling water, 
milk or cream to make a gravy of the desired consistency. If milk 
or cream is used, less butter will be required. 

CAPER SAUCE. 

Make 1 pint of butter sauce, and when it boils add 1 tablespoon 
capers, just before serving. 

CREAM SAUCE. 

1 pint sweet cream, 1 teaspoon pepper, 

% pint butter sauce, 1 egg, white. 

Rub the cream and butter sauce together, or pour the boiling 
cream into the butter, sauce, and boil; add the pepper and the 
white of egg, whipped to a stiff froth, beat all together 1 minute, 
and serve hot. 

CREAM SAUCE WITH EiHiS. 

1 cup cream, :.' eggs, yulks. 

Salt and pepper. 

Heat the cream in a double boiler, and add the beaten eggs, 
thicken like boiled custard, add salt and pepper, and serve. 

ci i;i!V SAUCE. 
To a pint of cream sauce, add 1 minced boiled onion in its juice, 
1 tablespoon curry powder, mixed with the same amount of Hour, 
and smoothed with a small piece of butter. Let it come to a boil, 
and serve. 

EGG s \i CE. 
To a pint of cream sauce, add .'! hard-boiled eggs, chopped not 
too tine, and a little finely-chopped parsley. 

MUSHROOM BAUCE. 

To a pint of cream sauce, add half a can of mushrooms chopped 

line, and season to taste. 



aya housekeeper cook hook. 

OYSTER 8A1 OE — 1. 

1 tablespoon flour, 1 cup ereatri, 

2 tablespoons butter, 1 pint oysters, 

Salt and pepper. 
Scald the oysters in their own juice. Strain off the liquor. Rub 
the butter and flour to a cream, and add gradually the oyster 
juice, then the cream boiling, and as the sauce begins to boil, drop 
in the oysters, and season with salt, and white and cayenne pepper. 
Or, omit the cream, using water for a sufficient quantity, and just 
before taking from the stove add lemon juice and a little grated 
nutmeg. 

OYSTER SAUCE 2. 

1 pint butter sauce, }4 saltspoon pepper. 

1 pint oysters, y 2 teaspoon salt, 

% teaspoon celery salt. 
Use the oyster liquor in making the butter sauce. When boil- 
ing, add the oysters, salt, pepper, and celeiy salt. Boil 2 minutes 
and serve hot. 

BROWN SAUCE. 

Brown sauces are made by browning butter and flour together, 
and bringing them to the right consistency with soup stock, or 
stock made from trimmings of meats, bones, or pieces of steak 
that have been cooked. Simmer these for an hour or more, after 
cutting the meat in small pieces, in a saucepan of cold water, and 
bring slowly to a boil. Strain, and it is ready for use. Brown 
sauces are served with most meats, a few fish, game, turkey 
and goose. The following is a good foundation recipe : Melt 1 
tablespoon of butter, and sprinkle in slowty 1 tablespoon flour. 
Stir carefully to prevent scorching, and after the first few minutes 
reduce the heat of the fire. It should be nicely browned in half 
an hour. Add 1 pint of stock with spices or seasonings, boil 5 
minutes longer and serve. Add 2 tablespoons of caramel, and the 
juice of half a lemon to make a regular Caramel sauce. 

CARROT SAUCE. 

1 pint brown sauce, 1 tablespoon grated horse-radish, 

}4 cup chopped pickles, 1 large orange carrot. 

Boil the carrot until it can be beaten to a jelly, add with the 

pickles and horse-radish to the boiling sauce. Boil 10 minutes, 

stirring well. 



MEAT SAUCES, 899 

CELER? SAUCE, 

\i cup boiled, chopped celery, )4 cup boiled, chopped parsley. 
1 pint brown sauce. 
To the boiling sauce add the other ingredients, and simmer lit 
minutes. 

CHESTNUT SAUCE. 

1 pint brown sauce, 1 pint roasted chestnuts, 

Salt and pepper. 
Roast, peel and mash fine the chestnuts, and add to the hot 
sauce and boil 3 minutes. Stir in the salt and pepper and serve 
with roast turkey. 

MAlTRE D' HOTEL SAUCE. 
2 tablespoons butter, 1 teaspoon lemon juice, 

1 tablespoon finely-chopped parsley, Pepper and salt. 

Rub all together to a cream, spread on broiled meats or fish, and 
place 5 minutes in a hot oven. 

MINT SAUCE. 

2 tablespoons sugar, 6 tablespoons vinegar, 

;i large tablespoons mint, 4 tablespoons boiling water. 

Pepper and salt. 
Strip the leaves and tips from the stalks of 3 r oung fresh mint, 
wash, diy and chop as fine as possible. Put it into a bowl, pour 
over it the boiling water and add the sugar. Cover, let cool half 
an hour and add the vinegar, pepper and salt. The sauce should 
he very thick and not a simple liquid. Set on ice and serve with 
roast lamb. 

MUSHROOM SAUCE. 

}4 pint brown sauce, Y 2 can chopped mushrooms, 

1 saltspoon celery salt. 

Bring the sauce to a boil, add the mushrooms, celery salt, or 

salt and pepper with a little lemon juice, stew 5 minutes and serve. 

MTSTARD SAUCE. 

1 pint brown sauce, 2 teaspoons made mustard, 

4 teaspoons vinegar. 
Rring the sauce to a boil and add the other ingredients. A 
hard-boiled egg may be chopped and added. Boil ."> minutes and 
serve. 

' OLIVE SAUCE. 
Take half a small bottle of olives and souk 1 hour in hot water. 



400 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

Pare the olive close to the stone, so when it is removed the olive 
will form a spiral and spring back to its natural shape. Put into 
1 pint of hot brown sauce, and boil slowly 10 minutes. 

PICKLE OR CAPER SAUCE. ' 

To half a pint of hot brown sauce, add 1 tablespoon chopped 
pickles or capers. 

SWEET-HERB SAUCE. 

1 pint brown sauce, X cup currant jelly, 

1 tablespoon mixed parsley, thyme, bay leaf and cloves. 

Let the brown sauce come to a boil, and add the other ingredi- 
ents. Boil up and serve. 

TOMATO SAUCE. 

1 pint brown sauce, y 2 can tomatoes, 

1 chopped onion. 

Boil the tomatoes and onion 10 minutes and strain. Boil up, 
and add gradually to the brown sauce, stirring constantly. Let 
boil well and serve. Or, when the tomato and onion have been 
strained and are boiling, add salt and pepper, a little water, and 
thicken with the flour and butter rubbed and browned together. 



GARNISHES. 

Use celery tips, eggs, hard-boiled and sliced, parsley leaves, 
water-cresses, sliced lemon, sliced tomatoes, pickled green seeds 
of nasturtium, beet pickles, or pickled cauliflower, for garnishes 
of cold meats, bakes, roasts and all meats not served with the 
gravy, except lamb. 

Pork is garnished with cranberries in nests of lettuce leaves, or 
apple snow or sauce, in celery or parsle\ T tips. Lemons in halves 
may be served with spareribs, or boiled ham. Stewed tomatoes 
are suitable with fat meats. 

Catsups, Chili sauce, and hot sauces of every kind may be used 
to flavor brown butter, or stock sauces. 

Garnishes are made of other leaves and sprigs than those men- 
tioned, and brightened with colored jellies, pickles, or the flowers 
of the nasturtium. 



i 



MEATS. 401 

MISCELLANEOUS RECIPES. 

It has been said that wasting is carried on so far and so exten- 
sively in American kitchens that it will soon be one of the com- 
mon sciences, also, that the food thrown away by Americans would 
feed cornfortabty the French people. Granted the last statement to 
be exaggerated, the fact remains that the national habit is one of 
great prodigalit} r in the use and waste of cooked and uncooked 
food. The following recipes suggest one means of improvement, 

DRIED BEEP. 

Slice it very thin, put in a frying pan with water to cover, let it 
just boil, pour off the water, and add a pint of milk, a lump of 
butter, and a thickening of a little flour and milk; stir well, and 
' just before serving, add an egg, stirring it in quickly ; or, chip 
very fine, freshen, add a lump of butter, 6 or 8 eggs, stir well, and 
serve at once. Cold, boiled or baked beef may be sliced and 
cooked in the same way. When ends or thin pieces of dried beef 
become dry and hard, put in cold water and boil slowl}' 6 or 8 
hours, and slice when cold ; or, soak over night in cold water, and 
boil 3 or 4 hours. Many think all dried beef is improved by this 
method. 

BEEFSTEAK STUFFED. 

. This is nice for dinner, and can be pr*epared from a rather poor 
flank or round steak ; pound it well, season with salt and pepper, 
spread with a nice dressing, roll up and tie closely with twine, put 
in a kettle with 1 quart boiling water, boil slowly 1 hour, take out 
and place in a dripping pan ; add the water in which it was boiled, 
baste frequently until a nice brown, and make a gravy of the drip- 
pings ; or, put it at once into the dripping pan, skewer "2, slices of 
salt pork on the top, add a very little water, baste frequently, and, 
if it bakes too rapidly, cover with a dripping pan. 

CROQUETTES. 

Croquettes are made of meat or fowl previousl}' cooked. They 
are dropped in boiling lard like fritters, and the easiest method is 
to lay them in a wire basket and plunge them for 5 or 10 minutes 
into the hot fat. They must be light, crisp and brown, but not 
greasy. It is better to make the day before using, and when 
wanted lay them in a hot oven on a thick, soft paper. Flat cakes, 






402 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

called balls, browned nicely on both sides, are a species of cro- 
quettes, and may be cooked in boiling lard, instead of frying in a 
pan. After the croquette mixture is prepared, then comes the 
moulding into round and long rolls, sa3' 1 by 2^ inches. Have 
convenient to the moulding board, a saucer of flour, one of beaten 
egg, and a bowl of sifted bread crumbs. Let the hands be well 
floured. Take 1 tablespoon of the prepared meat, roll it between 
the palms of the hands into the required shape ; if too thin they 
will break in frying. Dip them first into the egg, then the bread 
crumbs, being careful that they are well covered. Lay on a plat 
ter, separated from each other, and place them in a cold place for 
1 hour at least. Then put them into a frying basket, and plunge 
into the boiling lard. When a golden brown, take out and lay on 
a clean paper in the mouth of the oven to dry. Garnish chicken 
croquettes with fried parsley, or stick a sprig of parsley or celery 
into one end. Lobster croquettes may be garnished with lettuce, 
or cress, or slices of lemon. 

CHICKEN CROQUETTES — 1 . 

1 cooked chicken, • Cream, 

2 eggs, Celery, 
Salt and pepper, Parsley. 

Pound, or chop the meat very fine, add a little minced celery 
and parsley, and chopped oysters if liked ; season with salt and 
pepper, moisten with cream or gravy, mix with the beaten eggs, 
and make into long balls. Egg and crumb, and boil in lard. 

CHICKEN CROQUETTES — 2. 
1 chicken, % pound butter, 

}4 cup cream, 1 tablespoon flour, 

}4 cup broth, 2 eggs, yolks, 

Salt and pepper. 
Stew a three-pound chicken in a very little water flavored with 
parsley, celery, and onion, if the taste is liked. When done, cool, 
and chop very fine. Rub the butter and flour together, cook in a 
custard kettle, add the cream and broth. Boil till well thickened, 
take off the fire, add pepper and salt, and the chicken. Mix well, 
and stir in slowly the well-beaten eggs. Cook uncovered a few 
minutes, stirring constantly. Take out to cool and shape into 
rolls. Beat the yolk of 1 egg with 1 tablespoon of cream, dip the 



MEATS. 403 

rolls in this and then in sifted bread crumbs, and after standing 1 
hour, boil in lard. These are improved by adding a little nutmeg 
and lemon juice just before taking from the fire. 

Veal may be substituted for chicken in this and the previous 
recipe, and many consider turkey better than chicken. 

MEAT CAKES. 

Scraps of meat, as steak, roast, etc. , ma}' be chopped fine, patted 
into cakes an inch thick, and broiled over a quick fire ; or laid in 
a very hot spider, and turned when brown. Serve with butter, 
salt, and pepper. These need to be well done. Spices, sage, 
savory, or any flavor may be added in the mixing. If herbs are 
used they should be dried and sifted. 

MEAT CROQUETTES. 

Use beef, chicken, lamb, mutton, veal or fish. To 1 pound meat 
use one-fourth pound bread crumbs, except in the case of fish, 
when potato is used. Moisten with gravy, cream, or a butter 
sauce, and mix with a beaten egg. Season with celery salt, pep- 
per and salt, but omit the celery and add catsup to the beef and 
fish mixture. Finish according to directions. 

SALMI OF DUCK. 

Cut cold duck into nice pieces. Put the bones and giblets into 
a saucepan and cover with hot water ; when it boils add 1 onion 
sliced, cloves, a bunch of herbs, pepper and salt. Cover and cook 
slowly 1 hour. Then strain, and cool sufficiently to take off any 
fat that has risen to the top. Return to the fire, add, when hot, 
the pieces of duck and simmer 1 hour more. Water may be added 
if needed. Brown 1 tablespoon each of flour and butter together, 
stir into the meat, and let boil up. Arrange the duck on a platter 
and garnish with croutons, bread cut in narrow oblong, or diamond 
shapes, fried in boiling fat, or border with boiled rice. Stewed 
green peas may be added just before it is thickened. 

HASH. 

Cold meat of any kind will do, but corned beef is best ; remove 
all surplus fat and bits of gristle, season with salt and pepper, 
chop fine, and to one-third meat add two-thirds chopped cold boiled 
potato ; 1 onion chopped very fine may be added. Place in the 
dripping pan, dredge with a little flour, and pour in at the side of 



404 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

the pan a little water; put in the oven, and do not stir; when the 
flour is light brown, and has formed a sort of crust, take out, add 
a lump of butter, and stir it through several times. Or, by cook- 
ing longer, it may be made of cold raw potatoes, which peel, slice, 
and let lie in salt and water half an hour before chopping. For 
fresh meat and potatoes, alwa}S use the proportions given above, and 
before chopping, season with pepper and salt, a chopped onion if 
liked; place in a hot skillet, moisten with water or gravy, add a 
little butter or nice beef drippings, stir often until warmed through, 
cover, and let stand on a moderately hot stove 1 5 minutes. When 
ready to dish, run the knife under and fold as an omelet, and 
serve with tomato catsup. In making veal hash use milk instead 
of water with the gravy. In making hash, meats may be com- 
bined if there is not enough of a kind. 

TURKEY HASH. 

Pick the meat off turkey bones, shred it in small bits, add dress- 
ing and fine pieces of light biscuit, mix all together and put into a 
dripping pan ; thoroughly moisten with the gravy, place in a hot 
oven 20 minutes, and serve. Or, warm the remnants of the tur- 
key over after the style of scalloped oysters. The common error 
in heating over meats of all kinds is putting them into a cold skil- 
let, and cooking a long time. This second cooking is more prop- 
erly only heating, and should be quickly done. All such dishes 
should be served hot with some sort of tart jelly. Save a can of 
currant juice, from which to make jelly in the winter, and it will 
be as fresh and delicious as when made in the summer. 

TOAD-IN-THE-HOLE. 

1 cup milk, 1 egg, 

1 cup flour, Pepper and salt, 

1 pound lamb chops or beefsteak. 
Beat the egg thoroughly, add the milk, and stir in the flour; the 
mixture should be like that for batter cakes. Butter well a pud- 
ding dish ; lay in the chops, sprinkle with pepper and salt ; pour 
over the batter, and bake 1 hour. Or, cut the steak in small 
pieces, season, stir into the batter and bake. 

MACARONI AND MEAT. 

Chop lean, cold, roast beef or mutton very fine; nearly fill a 



MEATS. 4Q5 

pudding dish with cold boiled macaroni; in the center put the 
chopped meat, carefully flavored with salt, pepper, thyme, and, if 
liked, a little liquor from canned tomatoes. Pour stock or gravy 
over all ; cover with bread crumbs, add 2 tablespoons melted but- 
ter, and bake half an hour. 

TATTIES. 

Use recipe for Pyramid Pates, or make a pun* paste, and after it 
has waited 1 hour in the ice box, or a very cold place, roll out 
quickly and cut rounds one-quarter inch thick with a biscuit cut- 
ter. Use three for a pate, cutting a small round from the centre 
of two. Lay the rings on the whole one and bake in a quick oven. 
Just before taking from the stove, glaze with the white of an egg. 
A little round may be baked to serve as a cover to each pate. 
These may be filled with the remnants of meat, poultry, fish or oys- 
ters, prepared in a tempting manner. Chicken and vefLl prepared 
as for croquettes make a nice filling. When the pates are filled 
and covered, heat through in a hot oven. Slices of stale bread, an 
inch thick, may be cut into rounds, and a small circle cut out from 
the centre to half its depth. Fry as croquettes, and fill with 
minced chicken, turkey or meat, seasoned with its gravy. 

BEEFSTEAK PIE. 

Cut steak and a small slice of ham into dice; put them into a 
frying pan with a little butter and 2 chopped onions ; let them 
simmer 15 minutes; add 1 pint sliced potatoes, 1 pint stock, with 
salt, pepper, and a little flour. Cook 20 minutes, and pour into a 
baking dish lined with a nice pastry. Cover, and bake till done. 
Or, cut beefsteak into half-inch pieces, season, lay in a dish lined 
with paste, add butter, water or stock, and a little flour; cover, and 
bake in a moderate oven. 

LANCASHIRE PIE. 

Take cold beef or veal, chop, and season as for hash ; have 
ready hot mashed potatoes, seasoned ; put in a shallow baking dish 
first a layer of meat, then a layer of potatoes, and so on. till the 
dish is full ; smooth over the top of the potatoes, and make little 
holes in which place bits of butter ; bake a nice brown. 

MEAT PIE. 

Put a layer of cold roast beef or other meat, chopped very fine, 



406 HOU8EKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

in the bottom of a dish, season with pepper and salt, add a layer 
of powdered crackers, with bits of butter, a little milk, and fill the 
dish with alternate layers ; moisten with gravy or broth, or warm 
water ; spread over all a thick layer of crackers which have been 
seasoned with salt and mixed with milk and a beaten egg ; stick 
bits of butter thickly over it, cover with a tin pan, and bake from 
half to three-quarters of an hour; remove the cover 10 minutes be- 
fore serving, and brown. Or, cover some bones with a pint of 
cold water, and let them simmer for an hour ; strain and add a 
chopped onion, 3 tablespoons Chili sauce, a level tablespoon salt, 
and the chopped meat ; let simmer a few minutes, thicken with a 
tablespoon flour mixed in water, let boil once, take off and cool ; 
put a layer of this in a pudding dish, then a layer of sliced hard- 
boiled eggs and a few slices of cold, boiled potatoes ; repeat the 
process. Cpver with pastry or a baking powder crust make an 
opening in the center, and bake 40 minutes. 

MUTTON PIE. 

Spread the bottom of a baking dish with bread crumbs, and fill 
with alternate layers of cold roast mutton, cut in thin slices, and 
tomatoes, peeled and sliced ; season each layer with pepper, salt 
and bits of butter. The last layer should be of tomatoes spread 
with bread crumbs. Bake three-quarters of an hour, and serve 
immediately. 

VEAL AND HAM PIE. 

Prepare a seasoning of 3 parts salt, 1 part pepper, and a dust 
of nutmeg. Take meat in the proportion of two-thirds veal to 
one-third ham, cut into thin slices, rub with the above seasoning, 
roll'up and place them in a dish, adding water and chopped hard- 
boiled eggs. If the ham is very salt, use less salt and more pep- 
per in the seasoning. Parsley improves veal. Forcemeat, catsup, 
mushroom, tomato, or a little Worcestershire sauce may also be 
added. Use good pastry for the pie. 

CHICKEN PILAU. 

1 pint milk, 2 eggs, 

Yz pint cold minced chicken, Rice, 

Salt and pepper, Butter. 

Make a thick batter of the milk, the eggs, well beaten, the 

chicken, and cold boiled rice. Season with salt, pepper and but- 



MEATS. 407 

ter, and bake 20 minutes. A pilau of cold meats is made iu this 
manner, with the addition of a little minced ham and onion. 

A pilau may be made from lamb or veal, as well as chicken, 
using the following proportions ■ 

4 pounds meat, 3 quarts cold water, 

1 pint rice, Pepper and salt. 

Buy cheap pieces, as the neck or shank, and cut pieces large 
enough to serve one to each person. After washing, put in a ket- 
tle, cover with water and a tight-fitting lid and stew slowly. At 
the end of 1^ hours add the rice, with salt and pepper, and cook 
until the broth is absorbed. Carefully watch, and stir to prevent 
burning. A little boiling water may be added before serving if 
the pilau seems very dry. Remove any unsightly bones, and lay 
the meat in the center of the platter, with the rice serving as a 
border. 

CHICKEN PUDDING. 

1 stewed chicken, 1 pint sweet milk, 

1 quart grated corn, Salt and pepper, 

3 eggs. 
Cut up and stew a chicken in as little water as possible, season, 
and put into a three-quart pudding dish ; pour over it the corn into 
which has been stirred the milk, the well-beaten eggs, with butter, 
pepper and salt; dredge thickly with flour, lay on bits of butter 
and bake in a quick oven. 

PARTRIDGE RISSOLES. 
3 roast birds, 1 cup flour, 

1 cup butter, % cup mushrooms, 

1 cup cream, A little nutmeg, 

1 cup broth or water, Lemon juice, 

Salt and pepper. 
Cut the meat of the birds in very small dice, mince and add 
mushrooms, sprinkle with a teaspoon of mixed salt and pepper ; 
grate nutmeg and squeeze lemon juice over all. Make a cream 
sauce by stirring the flour and butter together in a saucepan, add 
the broth and cream when it begins to bubble; moisten the moat 
with it, stir well and set aside to cool. Make into finger rolls, dip 
first in flour, then egg, then cracker crumbs, put into a frying 
basket and cook in boiling lard. Garnish with fried parsley. Fry 
the parsley 1 minute, like the rissoles ; it must be crisp but re- 



4flH HOUSEKEEPER TOOK BOOK. 

main green. Drain both rissoles and parsley on a sheet of brown 
paper in an open oven before serving. 

HAM SANDWICHES. 

Mince cold boiled ham, season with salt, pepper, and a very lit- 
tle mustard, or mix with a nice salad dressing ; butter thin slices 
of bread and spread one with the mixture, and lay another on it. 
Prepare half an hour before needed for use. 

BREAK FAST S A USAGES. 

Place a thick layer of sausage meat in a baking dish. Cover 
with soft mashed potatoes twice or three times the thickness of 
the sausage. Beat an egg with a little cream, spread on the top 
and bake half an hour in a moderate oven. 

BREAKFAST STEW. 
% pound cold beef, 2 tablespoons butter, 

}.< pint water, 2 tablespoons flour, 

Pepper and salt, l tablespoon Chili sauce. 

Cut the beef into small pieces, and heat with the water and Chlii 
sauce, adding salt and pepper. Hub the butter and flour smooth, 
mix with a little of the gravy and pour on the beef. Cook and 
serve with bits of dry toast. Sliced onions may be fried, added 
to the gravy before the meat, and the Chili sauce omitted. Or, 
make the gravy of stock, add a fried sliced onion, pepper and salt, 
and a teaspoon of catsup ; let it boil, and set aside to. cool ; when 
nearly cold, put in thin slices of cold meat, a few slices of cold po- 
tatoes, and heat gradually until it comes to the boiling point. 
Serve with dice of fried bread. Or. prepare a poor beefsteak by 
trimming off the fat and cutting it in convenient pieces ; fry in 
butter or drippings to a nice brown on both sides, and add a little 
sliced onion, carrots, or turnips, Seasoning, Chili sauce, and 1 pint 
soup stock, or water ; stew gentl} r 2 or 3 hours, skim off any 
grease, and stir in a little flour mixed with milk. 

MEAT TOAST. 

Chop cold steak, veal, fowl, or tongue very fine, cook in a little 
gravy or water, add cream, thicken, season with butter, salt, and 
pepper, and pour it over slices of toast. Prepare boiled ham in 
the same way, adding the yolk of an egg. 



MEATS. 4 of) 

SCALLOPED TURKEY. 

Moisten bread crumbs with a little milk, butter a baking dish, 
put in it a layer of crumbs, a layer of chopped cold turkey or 
Chicken, with some of the dressing, season with salt and pepper, 
add bits of butter, and alternate layers of crumbs and turkey till 
the dish is nearly filled. Mix a little water with the gravy and 
pour over it. Take 2 beaten eggs, 2 tablespoons milk, melted 
butter, and cracker crumbs, season, beat well together and spread 
over the top of the scallop. Cover tightly, bake 30 minutes, re- 
move the cover and let it brown 15 minutes. 

VEAL CHEESE. 

Take equal quantities of sliced boiled veal and sliced boiled 
tongue. Pound each in a mortar adding butter meanwhile. Mix 
them in a stone jar; pack the paste very solid and pour on melted 
butter. Cover tightly and keep cold and dry. Cut in thin slices 
and serve for tea or luncheon with currant jelly, or as salad. 

HOW TO CARVE MEAT. 

Carving is a fine art which all should study in order to acquit 
themselves creditably when occasion requires. There are no real 
difficulties in the way of mastering the accomplishment; knowl- 
edge gives confidence, and practice, skillfulness and grace. A 
good sharp knife of moderate size is a necessity. The butcher 
should be instructed to separate the joints of roasts like loin, 
breast, and fore-quarter. Fowls are easily .carved. In carving a 
turkey, turn the head to the right, hold down the bird with the 
fork placed in its body just below the highest point of the breast- 
bone, cut off the right wing and leg, and the second joint ; slice the 
breast until a rounded separated piece appears; insert the knife 
between it and the bone, and the nicest piece of the breast comes 
off ; then follow with the merry-thought, or wish-bone. After this. 
turn the fowl a little to one side, and take out the "oyster," a 
most delicate morsel, lying in the hollow of the side bone, at' the 
point of contact of the breast with the second joint. Carve the 
other side in like manner, and do not remove the fork during the 
process. Chickens and partridges are carved in the same way. 



410 



HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 




SIRLOIN OF BEEF. 

In carving beef, mutton, lamb, 
pork and veal, thin, smooth slices 
are desirable. Cut across the 
grain, taking care to pass the 
knife through to the bones of the 
meat. There are two modes of 
carving a sirloin of beef ; either by cutting long, thin slices from 3 
to 4, and serving it with a bit of the fat underneath the ribs, or by 
cutting thicker slices, from 1 to 2, through the tenderloin. 

Carve a rib roast from the thick to the thin end. Before slicing 
run the knife behind and under the meat, to free it from the bones. 

HAM. 

A ham ma}' be carved in three 
ways : First, by cutting long, 
delicate slices, through the thick 
fat from 1 to 2, down to the bone ; 
second, by running the*point 
of the knife in the circle in the 
middle, and cutting thin Circular 
slices, thus keeping the ham moist ; and last, and most economic- 
ally, by beginning at the knuckle, 4-5, and slicing upward 
A leg of pork may be carved like ham. 

LEG OF MUTTON. 

In carving a leg of mutton the 
best slices are obtained from the 
center, by cutting from 1 to 2 ; 
and very good cuts are found on 
the broad end from 5 to 6. Some 
epicures prefer slices nearer the 
knuckle, but they are dry. The cramp-bone is a delicacy, and is 
obtained by cutting down to the bone at 4, and running the knife 
under it in a semi-circular direction to 3. The fat so esteemed by 
many lies on the ridge 5. By turning over the meat excellent 
slices are found and may be cut lengthwise. 





MEATS. 



411 





SHOULDER OF MUTTON. 

A shoulder of inutton should 
be cut down to the bone, in the 
direction of the line 1, and thin 
slices of lean meat taken from 
each side. The best fat is found 
at 2, and should be cut in that 
direction. Several tempting slic- 
es ma} r be cut on either side of the line 3, and on the under side 
near the flap. 

TONGUE. 

A tongue should be carved as 
: ' thin as a wafer ; " its delicacy 
depends in a great degree upon 
that. The center slices are con- 
sidered the best, and should be 
cut across at the line 1; serve 

the slices taken from each side, with a portion of the fat which is 

at "ts foot. 

FILLET K)¥ VEAL. 

Carve thin smooth slices from the top and serve with portions of 
the fat and dressing. In carving a breast of veal, first separate the 
breast and brisket. Carve a loin roast like sirloin of beef, and a 
rib roast like beef, but in thicker slices, and serve with the fat and 
kidney. 

HAUNCH OF VENISON. 

A haunch of venison silould 
he cut across to the bone on the 
line 1-3-2, turn the dish a little, 
put the point of the knife at 3, 
and cut down as deep as possi- 
ble in the direction of 3-4, and continue to cut slices on the right 
and left of the line. The fattest parts are found between 4 and 2. 
A loin of veal or a loin of mutton should be jointed by the butcher 
before it is cooked, and the carver easily cuts through the ribs. A 
portion of the kidney and the fat should be served on each plate. 




412 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

FISH. 

In serving fish, lightness of touch and dexterity of management 
are necessary to prevent the flakes from breaking. With mackerel, 
shad, etc , a part of the roe should be placed on each plate. The 
fins of the turbot are most desired, and the back of the fish should 
be placed next the platter. In salmon, the choicest morsels are 
close to the head, the thin part comes next, and the tail is the least 
esteemed. The flavor of the fish nearest the bone is not equal to 
that of the part farthest removed from it. 

HOW TO CURE MEAT. 

There is a difference between corned and pickled meat. Corned 
beef is ready for use at the end of five days ; pickled meat must 
lie in brine at least three weeks, and may be kept in it for months. 
The same brine may be used for both, or one of strong salt water 
made for corned beef. It is better to add a very small quantity of 
saltpetre, however, though the sugar may be omitted. Tongues 
are often corned slightly in cooking by adding a large quantity of 
salt and a -very small lump of saltpetre to the water used in boil- 
ing. In this case boil in a good deal of water, and do not let it 
cook down to a small quantity. 

TO CURE BEEF. 

8 pounds salt, 2 ounces soda, 

5 pounds sugar, or ) 1 ounce saltpetre, 

5 pints N. O. molasses, j' 4 gallons soft water. 

This amount of brine is sufficient for one hundred pounds of 
beef. Mix part of the salt and sugar together, rub each piece and 
place it in an oak barrel, having covered the bottom with salt. 
When the meat is all in, put the remainder of salt and sugar into 
the water. Dissolve the soda and saltpetre in hot water, add it to 
the brine and pour over the meat; place a board on top of the 
meat, with a weight sufficient to keep it under the brine. Let the 
pieces intended for dried beef remain in the brine 3 weeks ; take 
them out, place in a tub, cover with water, and let stand all night. 
String and smoke them a few days, then hang from the ceiling 
over the kitchen stove, or on a frame behind the stove, and turn 
once a clay to give all parts an equal exposure. The}- should be 



MEATS. 418 

well dried on the outside, and free from rawness at the center. 
When dried, sprinkle with ground black pepper, put in paper 
sacks, tie up tightly, and hang in a cool, dry, dark place, or put, 
without sacks, into an empty flour barrel, and cover closely. Boil 
the brine, skim well, cool, and pour over the bony pieces that are 
left. These are boiled and eaten either hot or cold, and will keep 
good several months. Tongue may be pickled with the beef. 

DRIED BEEP. 
100 pounds beef, 4 pounds brown sugar, 

4 pounds rock salt, 4 ounces saltpetre. 

Mix the salt, saltpetre and sugar well together ; rub thoroughly 
into the beef, and put it into a barrel. Cover the beef with a 
round board kept in place by a heavy weight. No water is added 
as the beef makes its own brine. This will not be too salt what- 
ever the length of time it remains in the barrel, and may be dried 
at the end of 3 weeks. 

BEEFSTEAK FOR WINTER USE. 

2 pounds salt, 1% pounds sugar, 

}i ounce powdered saltpetre. 
Mix these ingredients well. Cut the steak large and thick. 
Sprinkle the bottom of a large jar with salt, lay in a piece of steak, 
sprinkle with the mixture, fill the jar, sprinkling each layer and 
leaving a good coating On the top. Cover with a weighted plate, 
and set in a cool, airy place. There will be no difficulty in keeping 
25 or 30 pounds. Broil or fry as usual. 

TO CURE BEEF TONGUES. 

1 pound brown sugar, or ) ~' pints salt, 

1 pint molasses, ) 4 red peppers, 

6 quarts salt water. 

Boil these ingredients together, skim well, and cool. Pack 12 
tongues in a large jar, and when the brine is entirely cold, pour it 
over them, put on a weight, let remain 10 or 12 days, take out, 
drain, and smoke about 2 days, then dry moderately, and put away 
in a Hour sack in a dry place. "When wanted for use, boil G or 8 
hours in a pot filled with water, adding more when necessary to 
keep the tongue well covered all the time until done. Set away 
to cool, but do not skin till needed for the table. 



414 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

TO PREPARE BEEP TRIPE. 

Empty the paunch, taking care not to spill any of the contents 
on the outside, rinse it thoroughly in cold water, and put it in a 
tub. Make a strong white lye, bring it nearly to scalding heat 
and pour it over the tripe ; let it stand 3 hours, then tack it up 
against a board and with a knife scrape downward, taking off the 
inner skin, or rinse it clean in cold water. Sprinkle lime over it, 
return to the tub, cover with warm water and let stand 2 hours ; 
scrape it with a knife, and if the dark color does not come off 
easily, sprinkle on more lime and let it lie an hour longer ; scrape 
again and rinse in cold water till clean. Cover with water, add a 
large handful of salt and let the tripe remain in the salt water 3 
days, changing it each day ; then take it out, cut in pieces 6 inches 
wide and 12 long, and cover with buttermilk a few hours to whiten 
it. Rinse it clean in cold water and boil till it can be mashed 
with the fingers, which will take from 4 to 6 hours. It is then 
reacty for use. 

TO CURE BACON, HAMS AND SHOULDERS. 

10 pounds salt, 2 ounces soda, 

5 pounds sugar, or \ 1 ounce saltpetre, 

5 pints N. O. molasses, j 4 gallons soft water. 

Cover the bottom of an oak barrel with salt. Take part of the 
mixed salt and sugar, rub each piece thoroughly on the fleshy 
side, and lay in the barrel skin side down. Make a pickle of the 
remainder of the mixture, and pour over the meat. Place a round 
board, a little smaller than the barrel, on the meat, with a weight 
sufficient to keep it under the brine ; a large stone may be washed 
clean and used year after year. Let the pieces remain 4 or 8 
weeks, according to size, though bacon should be taken out at the 
end of 3 weeks ; take out, drain, sprinkle with cayenne pepper, 
particularly around the bone. Hang them ready to smoke, let 
them drain 2 days, and then smoke with corn cobs or green hick- 
ory or maple wood, taking care to have smoke, but not fire enough 
to make heat. Smoke with hock downwards, as the skin then re- 
tains the juices of the meat. After smoking 4 weeks take down, 
sprinkle with ground black pepper, tie tightly in whole paper 
sacks, hang in a dry, dark, cool place, watching closety for fear of 



MEATS. I 1 5 

mold. Or, wrap in paper, sew in a coarse, cotton bag, whitewash 
on the outside and hang near the roof in the garret ; or, pack 
without sacks, hock end uppermost, in oats, shelled corn, or clean, 
sweet hay, before flies come. Cover the box or barrel closel}-, and 
keep in a dr} T , cool plaqe. If there is any danger from flies, take 
direct from the smoke-house and pack immediately. Brine for 
pickled pork should have all the salt it will dissolve, and 1 or 2 
pecks in the bottom of the barrel. If pork is salted in this man- 
ner it will never spoil, but the strength of the brine makes it neces- 
sary to salt the hams and side meats separately. Pork when killed 
should be thoroughly cooled before salting, but should not remain 
longer than 1 or 2 days. It should never be frozen before salt- 
ing, as this is as injurious as salting before it is cooled. Large 
quantities of pork are lost by failing to observe these rules. If 
pickled pork begins to sour, take it out of the brine, rinse well in 
clear, cold water, place a layer in a barrel, on this place charcoal 
in lumps the size of a hen's egg, add a layer of meat and so on, 
until all is in the barrel, and cover with a weak brine for 24 hours ; 
take the meat out, rinse off the charcoal, put it into a new strong 
brine, remembering always to have more salt in the barrel than the 
water will dissolve. If the same barrel is used, cleanse it by 
placing a small quantity of quicklime in it, slack with hot water, 
add as much salt as the water will dissolve, and cover tightly to 
keep in the steam ; let stand for a few hours or over night, rinse 
well, and it is ready for use. This is an excellent way to cleanse 
any barrel that has become impure from use; whiskey barrels in- 
jure the meat, but molasses barrels are wholesome. 

TO KEEP HAMS. 

8 pounds salt, 2 ounces saltpetre, 

4 gallons of soft water. 

This pickle is sufficient for one hundred pounds of meat. Cover 

the hams, and they will keep through the winter. Or, cure and cut 

hams in slices suitable for cooking, trim off the rind, and pack as 

solidl}' as possible in a stone jar ; pour melted lard over the top to 

completely exclude the air. When ham is wanted for use, scrape 

off the lard, remove a layer, and always be particular to melt the 

lard and return it immediately to the jar. This will keep through 

the season. 



41 6 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 
TO SMOKE HAM 1. 

Take the hams from the pickle, wash, and wipe dry ; rub with 
molasses and suspend in a barrel inverted over a kettle in which 
is a smoke made from cobs or oak chips. Do not let the smoke 
become fire or the hams will drip grease and make lire enough to 
burn up the hams and barrel. Cover the" barrel with thick paper 
and cloth to keep in the smoke. If the smoke can be made in a 
separate barrel and let into the one containing the hams through a 
pipe there is less danger of burning. Smoke steadily 12 hours. 
to smoke ham — 2. 
8 pounds salt, 4 ounces saltpetre, 

5 pints molasses, 4 gallons water. 

Make a brine of these ingredients ; boil and skim in the usual 
manner. Smoke the barrel in which the hams are to be pickled, 
by inverting it over a kettle containing a slow lire of hard wood, 
for 8 days ; keep water on its head to prevent shrinking. In this 
barrel pack the hams and pour over them the cold brine ; the}- will 
be cured in eight days, and may be kept one year in the pickle 
without damage 

HE AD-CHEESE. 

Thoroughly clean a hog's or pig's head, split it in two, take out 
the e}-es and the brain ; clean the ears, throw scalding water over 
the head and ears, and scrape them well ; when very clean, put in 
a kettle, cover with water, and set over a quick fire ; skim when 
needed. When the flesh leaves the bones, take out with a skim- 
mer into a large wooden bowl or tray ; pick out every particle of 
bone, chop the meat fine, season to taste with salt and pepper, and 
a little sifted sage or summer-savory. Add part of the liquor to 
the meat, till pans or moulds and set in a cool place. .Vinegar 
may be added also in the proportion of 1 pint to 1 gallon. Many 
consider the cheese improved by cooking the feet with the head; a 
finer flavor is given if calves' tongues, or some of the gelatinous 
bits of veal are also cooked with the head. 

TO KEEP MEAT FBESH IN HOT WEATHER. 

Pour milk that is souring and thickening into a three-gallon jar 
and put in a five-pound piece of beef. Cover with the milk; turn 
an earthen dish or plate over the meat to hold it down ; Jill the 



MEATS. 417 

jar with the milk ; tie a cloth over the top, and set in a cool place. 
This will keep 5 or 6 days in the hottest weather. Wash thor- 
oughly in water, and cook in any manner desired. Or, bury the 
moat in torn meal and keep in a cool, dry place. "Wash off the 
meal quickly just before using, and roast or broil. 

TO PREPARE CALF'S HEAT) AND FEET. 

The head must be perfectly sweet and clean before cooking. Di- 
vide it, remove the brains and wash it carefully in cold water. 
Clean the nose and throat passages by pouring plent}' of boiling 
water through them. Wash and scrape the ears thoroughly, and 
put the head into cold water, or warm water if desired to whiten it, 
Set it over the lire in cold water, and skim when it begins to boil. 
It will need a second skimming in 20 minutes. Cook gently over a 
moderate lire 2 hours. Takeout, slip the meat from the bones, skin 
the tongue, cool :md set, with the brains, in the ice box for future 
cooking. Calf's feet should lie washed and soaked in cold water. 
Drain, cover with cold water and cook slowly till the bones come 
away. 

SCRAPPLE. 

Scrapple is made from the liver of a pig, cut in pieces with the 
meat from the head and scraps that will not grind up for sausage, 
making in all about 5 or <i pounds. Let the meat boil till the bones 
can easily be separated from it, Strain the liquor in which the 
meat was boiled and put it back on the stove. Separate the bones 
from the meat and chop up the meat .as line as possible. To every 
pound of meat add 1 teaspoon salt and 1 saltspoon pepper, and to 
the .") pounds add 1 teaspoon sage; and 1 tablespoon sweet marjo- 
ram. Return the seasoned meat to the liquor in the pot and add 
equal parts of corn meal and buckwheat till the compound is as 
thick as mush. Lift the pot oil' the lire while stirring in the mush, 
ll should be frequently stirred and lifted off the tire to prevent its 
burning. Turn it into pans about 3 inches thick and let it cool. 
When needed for use, cut it into slices and fry it like mush. It 
will keep several weeks in a cold place. 



PICKLES. 

USE the best vinegar. That made from apples or maple sap 
is preferable to all others. A passably good vinegar is mad e 
from sorghum and is greatl} r superior to the sharp colorless liquid 
usually sold by grocers as cider vinegar, which is really weak sul- 
phuric acid and highly injurious. Boil pickles in earthen, granite 
or porcelain ware, never in tin. Keep them in a dry, cool cellar, 
in glass or stoneware ; look at them frequently and remove all soft 
ones ; if white specks appear in the vinegar, drain off and scald, 
adding a liberal handful of sugar to each gallon, and pour again 
over the pickles ; bits of horse-radish and a few cloves assist in 
preserving the life of vinegar. If put away in large stone jars, in- 
vert a saucer over the top of the pickles, so as to keep them well 
under the vinegar. The nicest waj' to put up pickles is bottling, 
sealing while hot, and keeping in a cool, dark place. Man}' think 
that mustard seed improves chopped and bottled pickles, and man- 
goes, but use it, as well as horse-radish and cloves, sparingly. 
Never put up pickles in anything that has held any kind of grease, 
and never let them freeze. Brine for pickles should be made in the 
proportion of one heaping pint of salt to one gallon of water ; add 
more salt if all is dissolved, so that there will always be plenty in 
the bottom of the cask. Use an oaken tub or cask for the brine, 
and keep the pickles well covered with it. If cucumbers are to be 
kept in brine for a long time, it is better to use more salt, as this 
may be corrected by soaking in weak vinegar, but if not sufficiently 
salted the pickles will be insipid. 

In scalding cucumber pickles to green them use grape or cabbage 
leaves, covering the bottom, sides and top of the kettle. The fol- 
lowing is a good proportion of spice for two quarts of pickles: 
1 teaspoon peppercorns, y 2 teaspoon whole cloves, 

1 teaspoon allspice, 14 teaspoon mustard seed, 

1 tablespoon stick cinnamon, % teaspoon horse-radish, 
1 inch ginger root. 
Bellpeppers cut in rings, using two rings from the green to one 

418 



MCKLftS. 419 

from the ripe ones, taking out the seeds, or one-eighth of a tea- 
spoon cayenne pepper may be substituted for the peppercorns. 
Ginger is the most wholesome of spices. Cloves are the strongest, 
mace next, then allspice and cinnamon. Of course the quantity 
of the stronger should be much less proportionately than that of 
the more delicate spices. The less spice used in either sweet or 
sour pickles the more wholesome, since highly spiced condiments 
of any kind tend to induce a heated condition of the digestive or- 
gans, which produces at first an abnormal flow of the gastric juices, 
afterward too little ; also, an unnatural thirst, and if used to a great 
extent results in a chronically inflamed condition of the mucous 
membrane. 

Man}' of the following recipes would be fully as palatable, and 
much less injurious, if less spice were used in their preparation. 
Whenever delicately flavored fruit is used, the flavor is destroyed 
by an}- but the least amount of the finer of the spices. 

Pickles are not wholesome, even when made with the greatest 
care, but if they must be eaten, it is best to make them at home. 
Those sold in market are often colored a beautiful green with sul- 
phate of copper, which is a deadly poison, or are cooked in brass 
or copper vessels, which produces the same result in an indirect 
way. Scalding or parboiling articles to be pickled makes them ab- 
sorb the vinegar more easily, but does not add to their crispness. 
Before putting them in vinegar, after parboiling, they should be 
cold and perfectly dry. Always use strong vinegar, or the pickles 
will be insipid, and it should be scalding hot when poured on, as 
raw vinegar becomes ropy and does not keep well. As heating weak- 
ens it, vinegar for pickles should be very strong, brought to the 
boiling point, and immediately poured on the pickles. Keep pickles 
from the air, and see that the vinegar is at least two inches over 
the top of the pickles in the jar. A dry wooden spoon or ladle is 
the only one that should be used in handling pickles. If the vin- 
egar loses its strength, pour on" and cover with some that is fresh 
and hot. 

ARTICHOKES. 

Gather them as soon as dug, rub on" the outer skin with a coarse 






420 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

towel, and lay in salt water for a daj r ; drain and pour over them 
cold spiced vinegar, adding 1 teaspoon horse-radish to each jar. 
To make them soft ; gather and let them freeze before pickling. 

BEANS. 
1 gal lun vinegar, 30 cloves, 

1 cup sugar, 15 allspice grains, 

M) whole black peppercorns, 10 blades mace 

Let the beans lie 1 week in brine, then freshen a little in clear 
water, boil till tender and cover with spiced vinegar. 

BEETS. 

Clean the beets and put them on to boil in cold water. When 
done drop them into a pan of cold water and rub off the skins. 
Slice in pieces half an inch thick and cover with hot vinegar, dis- 
solving 1 teaspoon sugar in each cup of vinegar. More sugar, and 
spices may be added. 

CABBAGE. 
1 large linn cabba; 1 teaspoon pepper, 

6 onions, i teaspoon cinnamon, 

1 pint vinegar, 1 teaspoon mace, 

1 cup sugar, J teaspoon allspice, 

Salt, 1 teaspoon celery seed, 

1 teaspoon mustard. 1 teaspoon turmeric. 

Remove the outside leaves; shave it fine; chop the onions; put 
both in alternate layers with salt, and let stand 2i hours. Scald the 
vinegar, add the sugar and spices, and boil five minutes. Add the 
drained cabbage and onions; cook slowly one-half hour and put in 
jars. Equal portions of white and red cabbage may be used. Or, 
shave a head of cabbage, pack closely in a jar with layers of salt, 
pepper, 2 tablespoons white mustard seed, 2 heads chopped celery, 
ami 1 chopped red pepper. Pour vinegar over the whole, sprinkle 
wiili powdered cloves and cover with a plate pressed down by a 
v, eight. Cover flic jar. This pickle may be used in a week. 
c LFLIPLOWER — 1. 
12 heads cauliflower, 5 quarts vinegar, 

5. cups brown sugar, 1 bottle French mustard, 

(3 eggs, 2 tablespoons ginger 

2 green peppers, % teaspoon cayenne, 

Butter size of an egg, X ounce pulverized turmeric. 

Beat well together the eggs, sugar, mustard, ginger and turmeric, 



PICKLES. 421 

and boil 1<> minutes in the vinegar, with the garlic and pepp< 
Boil the cauliflower in salt water until tender, then place carefully 
in :i Jar and pour over it the boiling hot mixture. 

CAULIFLOWER — 2. 
1 gallon vinegar, 1 dozen blades marc, 

1 cup white sugar, 2 dozen white peppi 

I tablespoon celery seed, l tablespoon coriander seed, 

1 tablespoon mustard sped, i red pepper pod. 
Select close white bunches ; let them stand head downward in 
salt water for 2 hours to remove any insects; cut into small clus- 
ters and boil 5 minutes in salted water. Have the spiced vinegar 
scalding hot, put the hot cauliflower into glass jars, till with the 
vinegar and seal. Or, choose fine full-sized cauliflowers, cut away 
all the leaves, and pull off the flowers by bunches ; soak 2 days in 
brine that will float an egg; drain, put in bottles with whole black 
pepper, allspice, and pieces of stick cinnamon : boil vinegar, and 
with it mix mustard smoothly, a little at a time until thick enough 
to run into the jars, pour it over the cauliflower and seal while hot. 
Small white onions, prepared as for onion pickles, may be mixed 
with the cauliflower before the vinegar is added. 

CELERY. 
2 quarts chopped cabbage, J£ ounce white ginger root, 

2 quarts chopped celery, y z ounce turmeric, 

3 quarts vinegar, 5 tablespoons sugar, 
\i pound white; mustard seed, 2 tablespoons salt. 

Mix and cook slowly several hours until the cabbage and celery 
are tender. 

OHOWCHOW — -1. 
24 peck small string beans. > + pound black mustard seed, 

i dozen green peppers, l tablespoon celery seed, 

3 dozen ears siii, r ar corn, 2 dozen small cucumbers, 

I head cauliflower, \ i ad white mustard seed, 

', peek tomatoes, '■ pound ground mustard, 

1 quart small white onions, 2 teaspoons turmeric powder, 

2 tablespoons salad oil. 

Salt the beans, tomatoes, peppers and onions, and let them stand 

under pressure 12 hours. Let- the encumbers and eaulillowers stand 

12 hours in brine. When ready to use cut the corn from the cob; 

mix everything well in a large kettle, excepting the oil and turmeric 



422 Housekeeper cook book. 

powder, cover the whole with strong vinegar and boil it 1 hour. 

Take from the stove, add the turmeric, mixing it thoroughly, the 

oil the last, mixing that well with the other ingredients. Make this 

pickle late in the fall. 

chowchow — 2. 
1 peck green tomatoes, 3 bunches celery, 

3 large green peppers, 1 large head cabbage, 

1 dozen large green cucumbers, 1 quart onions, 

1 large head cauliflower, 1 quart wax beans, 
3 tablespoons turmeric, 1 cup flour, 

2 tablespoons mixed ground spices, 2 gallons vinegar. 

Chop the peppers and cucumbers in a separate dish and soak 
over night in salt. Chop the rest, mix together, add salt, and let 
stand over night. The smallest onions may be left whole. A quart 
of very small cucumbers may be added whole. In the morning put 
the vinegar and sugar with the mixed spices, tied in a bag, on the 
stove to boil. Add the ingredients immediately after squeezing 
out the salt water, and boil till tender. Mix the turmeric and flour 
with vinegar to the consistency of a thin paste and add to the 
chowchow a few minutes before removing from the fire. Keep in 
glass jars or stone crocks without sealing. 

CUCUMBERS — 1. 

Take small fresh cucumbers, put in layers in a jar sprinkling 
them with salt. When full, pour all the cold water over them the 
jar will hold. Let stand from 1 to 3 days according to the saltness 
desired or the heat of the weather. Drain off and rinse with plenty 
of water. Put sugar and vinegar to boil in the proportion of 1 cup 
sugar to 1 quart vinegar. Drop in a bag containing 2 tablespoons 
cinnamon, 2 teaspoons cloves and 1 teaspoon ginger, let come to a 
boil, and pour over the cucumbers. If desired put in a few red 
pepper pods. When cold, cover, and use in 2 or 3 days. These are 
crisp and keep well. Or, pack tiny cucumbers into large glass 
jars, sprinkle with a little white sugar, and put in a small green 
pepper and a piece of horse-radish here and there. When the jars 
are full pour on boiling vinegar, seal quickly and set on a rack in 
a boiler of warm water, bring to the boiling point, give the coA'ers 
an extra screw, and keep the cans in a cool, dark place. 



PICKLES, 423 

CUCUMBERS — 2. 

The cucumbers must be gathered while very small, and handled 
as little as possible. Lay in a weak solution of salt and water, with 
.1 weight on them. Let them remain over night. The next day 
rinse with clear water, and put a layer in a porcelain kettle. Add 
a few bits of bruised horse-radish roots, and slice 3 onions ; then 
another layer of cucumbers with the onions until the kettle is nearly 
full. Pour in pure cider or maple vinegar to nearly cover the 
pickles, and set the kettle on top of the stove until the contents be- 
come scalding hot, not boiling. Occasionally shake the kettle gently 
to change the position of the contents. Pack in glass jars w r hen the 
pickles arc thoroughly heated, leaving out the bits of horse-radish, 
and onions. The former keeps the pickles from becoming mold}-, 
and the vinegar from becoming insipid or ropy. The onion may 
be omitted entirel}'. Man}' pickles can be packed in a quart jar by 
a little good management. Pickles put up in this way will keep 
crisp and fresh for years. 

CUCUMBERS GREENED. 

Put in strong brine as fast as they are gathered from the vines. 
When enough have accumulated, drain, and line a kettle with the 
youngest leaves of the wild grape vine ; put in the cucumbers, dis- 
carding all the soft ones, and sprinkle with powdered alum in the 
proportion of 1 teaspoon alum to 1 gallon cucumbers. Add a very 
little water, cover closely and steam several hours. They must not 
come even to the boiling point, but be kept hot enough to steam. 
When sufficiently green, pack in stone jars, and pour over boiling 
vinegar, to which has been added sugar in the proportion of 1 cup 
to 1 gallon vinegar, a few whole peppers, a teaspoon whole cloves, 
allspice and a little celery seed. Heat the vinegar every week for 
4 weeks ; cover the jar closely, putting a weight oil the cucumbers 
to keep them under the pickle. In a little while they will be ready 
for use. 

CUCUMBERS, SLICED. 

Slice an equal number of medium-sized cucumbers and lemons ; 
sprinkle with salt and let stand 2 hours ; drain well, and drop in 
hot vinegar to which a few pepper pods have been added. Let 



424 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

them come to a boil, and spices may be added. Seal in glass jars. 
These resemble fresh encumbers. 

MANGOES. 

1 cup mustard seed, 1 teaspoon celery seed, 

% cup scraped horse-radish, 1 teaspoon nutmeg scraped fine, 

1 teaspoon mace, )4 teaspoon ginger, 

2 tablespoons chopped onions, }^ teaspoon whole peppercorns. 
Green muskmelons and peppers that are full grown may be sub- 
stituted for the real mangoes. Cut a slit in, or take out a small 
round from the*side of the fruit and remove the seeds. Let the 
mangoes lie 70 hours in strong brine, and then 24 hours in cold 
water, using ice water the last 3 hours to make them firm. Mix the 
ingredients given above, and to every pint add half a tablespoon 
each sugar and ground mustard, and 1 teaspoon best salad oil. 
Stir thoroughly, fill the mangoes, tie them tightly w'ith twine, put- 
ting in the circle cut from the side. Pack in a deep stone jar. 
Pour over them boiling vinegar, and repeat the process every sec- 
ond day for 10 days. 

PEACH MANGOES. 

Take fine large freestone peaches ; extract the stone from the 
side with a sharp knife, lay the peaches in a jar and cover with 
salted water ; let them stand 24 hours ; take out and drop into cold 
water for 1 minutes. Wipe very dry and fill each cavity with horse- 
radish and mustard seed prepared as follows. Use in equal pro- 
portions. Before mixing, pour boiling water on the mustard seed, 
adding 1 saltspoon salt to 2 tablespoons seed, and let stand 15 
minutes, then add to the horse-radish, chopped fine, with a little 
ginger root and 2 cloves. Sew up the peaches, and pack very closely 
in a stone jar. Add 1 pint sugar to 3 pints vinegar, boil and pour 
over the fruit. These may be used in a week. 

MUSHROOMS. 

Wipe button mushrooms carefulty with a clean cloth ; sprinkle 
with a little salt and put them in a saucepan with a little water, 
pieces of mace and a few peppercorns. Simmer slowly, shake 
frequentty, and let the liquor dry out, but take the mushrooms off 
before they are dry. Cover them with cold vinegar, heat them in it 
and put into jars. When cold, seal or tie them up tightly. 



PICKLES. 425 

NASTURTIUMS. 

Pick small, green nasturtiums, throw them into salt and water. 

adding fresh ones daily, and change the water at the end of 3 and 
then 4 days. Pour off the brine, and cover with scalding vinegar. 

ONIONS. 
1 gallon onions, 3 teaspoons chopped horse-radish, 

4 tablespoons stick cinnamon, 2 teaspoons chopped clo 

Yi teaspoon cayenne pepper. 
Peel small silver-skin onions, and let them lie 3 days in brine 
that will float an egg. Drain and place in a jar in layers 3 inches 
deep; sprinkle each layer with the mixed spices. Add 1 pound 
brown sugar to 1 gallon vinegar, boil and pour it immediately over 
the onions. Or, peel small, white onions, and boil them in equal 
portions of sweet milk and water until the}- begin to grow tender. 
Drain them, put in jars, and cover with hot, spiced vinegar. 

PEPPERS. 

Use large green sweet peppers ; make a small incision at the side, 
take out all the seeds, being careful not to mangle them; soak 2 
days in brine that will float an egg, changing the water twice ; stuff 
with chopped cabbage, or tomatoes seasoned with spice as for man- 
goes, omitting the cayenne pepper, or a mixture of nasturtiums, 
chopped onions, red cabbage, grapes, and cucumbers, seasoned 
with mustard seed and a little mace. Sew up the incision, place 
in a jar, and cover with cold, spiced vinegar. 

PICCALILLI. 

1 large white cabbage, 50 small cucumbers, 

5 quarts small string beans, 4 yellow cucumbers, 

12 heads celery, 5 red peppers, 

3 heads cauliflower, 3 green peppers. 

Chop fine, soak over night in salt water, wash well, drain thor- 
oughly, and pour over them hot vinegar spiced with mustard, mace, 
cinnamon, and allspice ; scald thoroughly and keep in stone jars. 

ATZJAB PICKLES. 

4 quarts apple vinegar, 1 teaspoon whole black pepper, 

1 tablespoon while mustard sent. 1 teaspoon whole cloves, 

1 tablespoon black mustard seed, 1 teaspoon celery 

1 tablespoon powdered ginger root, 1 teaspoon turmeric 

1 teaspoon powdered alum, Sticks of cinnamon and mace. 



426 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

Mix these ingredients, and put in a large jar. Cover, and tie 
the mouth tightly while the vegetables are being prepared in the 
following manner. Gather small green cucumbers, small green to- 
matoes, green beans, small heads of cabbage, cut into quarters, 
hard white silver-skin onions, the only variety that the vinegar will 
not soften, and cauliflowers. Clear out the interior of large, green, 
bellpeppers, and small, green cantaloupes, or citrons, and stuff with 
chopped cabbage and green tomatoes, tying them together after- 
wards. Throw all these vegetables into a strong brine in the morn- 
ing ; take them out the fourth morning and wipe every piece, sep- 
arately, with a clean cloth or towel. Spread in the hot sun, letting 
them remain all day ; take them in at sunset, and throw into the 
prepared vinegar. They will look all shriveled up, and the pickles 
will seem to be utterly ruined ; but cover up the jar tightly, and let 
it alone for a month and they will be found to be very nice. The 
tabulated proportions are given for 1 gallon pickles. 

CHOPPED PICKLE. 
3 green or ripe bellpeppers, 2 tablespoons mustard seed, 

2 tablespoons chopped horse-radish, 1 saltspoon salt, 

1 peck green tomatoes. 
Slice the peppers, let them lie in salt water over night ; drain and 
chop line in the morning. Let the salt and mustard seed lie 15 
minutes in boiling water, then add with the horse-radish to the 
peppers. Wash the tomatoes, cut a small piece from each end, 
slice and chop fine ; put in a jar, stir in 1 cup salt and let stand 24 
hours. Take twice as much chopped cabbage as tomatoes, mix 
with 2 cups salt, and let stand 24 hours. Drain, place again in sep- 
arate jars and cover with cold weak vinegar. After 24 hours drain 
the cabbage again thoroughly ; let the tomatoes and vinegar boil 
3 minutes, stirring all the time. Pour out, and when cold squeeze 
until dry. Mix the tomatoes and the cabbage, and put into a stone 
jar in layers until nearly full. Sprinkle each la}-er with the pep- 
per, mustard, and horse-radish mixture, adding occasionally a little 
cayenne pepper. Cover with strong vinegar to which sugar has 
been added in the proportion of 1 cup to 1 gallon. Place a plate 
on the pickle to keep it under the vinegar. If a white scum rises, 
drain off the vinegar, boil, skim, and pour it while boiling over 



PICKLES. 427 

the pickle. Tomatoes and onions may be prepared in the same 
way. Sliced pickles are prepared in a similar manner. 

MIXED PICKLES. 

300 small cucumbers, 3 cabbages, 

1 quart string beans, % pound white mustard seed, 

1 quart green tomatoes, $£ pound black mustard seed, 

4 green peppers, Yz pint ground mustard, 

3 large cauliflowers, 1 tablespoon black pepper, 
9 large onions, Vinegar. 

Slice the tomatoes, onions and peppers; cut the beans in inch 
lengths; shave the cabbage; break the cauliflower in bunches; soak 
these with the cucumbers in a strong brine 24 hours. Drain 3 
hours, sprinkle with the mustard seed and pepper, cover with vin- 
egar, and boil. Drain again, and when cold stir in the ground mus- 
tard. Cover with good vinegar Turmeric may be used for color. 

SPANISH PICKLES. 

1 dozen cucumbers, 3 ounces white mustard seed, 

1 peck green tomatoes, 1 ounce turmeric, 

4 heads of cabbage, 1 ounce celery seed, 

12 onions, 1 box Colman's mustard, 

2K pounds brown sugar. 

Let the cucumbers stand 3 days in brine that will float an egg ; 
slice the onions, and chop the cabbage and tomatoes the day before 
making, and sprinkle with salt in the proportion of half a pint to 
1 peck. Squeeze the brine out of the cucumbers, wipe, peel and 
slice ; let all simmer slowly together in a kettle half an hour, and 
then bottle. 

To.MATii PICKLES. 

8 quarts sliced green tomatoes, 2 teaspoons ground cinnamon, 

1 head chopped cabbage, 2 teaspoons ginger, 

8 chopped peppers, 2 teaspoons ground clove-. 

1 pint sliced onions, 2 teaspoons black pepper. 

1 small cup salt, 2 teaspoons celery seed, 

t pound sugar, 3 teaspoons white mustard seed, 

)4. gallon vinegar, Nasturtiums to taste. 

Put the salt on the onions, cabbage, and tomatoes, let stand 
over night, and drain in the morning ; add the other ingredients 
and boil the pickle 1") minutes. 



428 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

VIRGINIA PICKLES. 
14. peck green tomatoes, X pound white mustard seed, 

K peck small onions. 3^ cup ground black pepper, 

25 medium cucumbers, }.. ounce ground cinnamon, 

15 large white onions, 1 ounce celery seed, 

4 heads cabbage, 2 ounces turmeric, 

1 pint grated horse-radish, (i quarts vinegar. 
Slice the tomatoes, large onions, and cabbage ; quarter the cu- 
cumbers lengthwise, and cut in two-inch strips ; leave the small 
onions whole. Mix thoroughly with salt and let stand 24 hours ; 
drain, and pour on vinegar and water. Let stand a day, and drain 
well ; add the spices, except the ground mustard, and pour the vin- 
egar, boiling hot, over the pickles. Heat the same vinegar and 
pour over the pickles for 3 successive mornings. The third morn- 
ing add 1 pound of sugar to the vinegar before boiling. Mix the 
mustard and oil together with a small portion of the vinegar and 
add when cold. 

PICKLED WALNUTS. 
1 gallon vinegar, 1 tablespoon whole cloves, 

% pint sugar, 1 tablespoon whole pepper, 

12 blades mace, 1 teaspoon whole allspice. 

Gather the nuts when soft enough to pierce with a needle ; let 
them lie 6 days in strong brine ; drain, wipe them dry, pierce with 
a large needle and throw into cold water. After 6 hours drain off 
the water, and pack the nuts in jars. Prepare the vinegar accord- 
ing to the given proportions, boil 6 minutes, and pour over the 
nuts. In 2 and 4 days heat the vinegar, and pour it over the 
pickles. After standing 1 week more, repeat the process. Butter- 
nuts may be pickled in like manner. 

TO KEEP PICKLES FROM GETTING SOFT. 

To 1 barrel of pickles, when in brine, add half a bushel of grape 
leaves. This will keep them sound and firm. 

SWEET PICKLES. 

Sweet pickles may be made of any fresh fruit that can be pre- 
served, including the rinds of ripe melons and cucumbers. The 
proportion of sugar to vinegar for syrup is three pints to a quart. 
Sweet pickles may be made of preserves by boiling the syrup and 



PICKLES. 429 

adding spices and vinegar. Examine frequentl}', and scald the 
syrup if there are signs of fermentation. Plums and other smooth- 
skinned fruits should be pricked before cooking. The principal 
spices for sweet pickles are cinnamon and cloves. The following 
is a good general recipe for all sweet pickle, though more or less 
sugar may he used according to the acidity or sweetness of the 
fruit. 

- GENERAL REOIPE. 

7 pounds fruit, 1 teaspoon bits of mace or nutmeg, ' 

% l A pounds sugar, X tablespoon whole- cloves, 

1 pint vinegar, 2 tablespoons stick cinnamon. 

Extract the strength of the spices by simmering in a very little 
water ; ground spices may be used if tied in a bag. Strain the wa- 
ter, add to the vinegar and sugar, and when the syrup boils pour it 
over the firm fresh fruit. Repeat this scalding process three suc- 
cessive days. The fourth day boil all five minutes and fill the jars. 
Or, the scalding process may be omitted, if the fruit is put imme- 
diately into the boiling .syrup and allowed to simmer slowl}' from 
fifteen to twent} T -five minutes. Cucumbers or melons are im- 
proved by adding two sliced lemons and two ounces of ginger root 
to the above recipe. 

APPLES. 

7 pounds apples, l pint water, 

4 pounds sugar, 1 ounce whole cloves, 

1 quart vinegar, :.' ounces stick cinnamon. 

Use crab or the ordinary apples. Pare, core and quarter the lat- 
ter; cook in the hot, spiced syrup; avoid crowding, and take the 
apples out when they can easily be pierced with a straw. Put them 
in a jar and cover with the hot syrup when reduced by boiling to 
the amount needed. Or, take equal quantities of fruit and sugar. 
Make a syrup of the sugar, 1 quart of vinegar and 1 pint water ; 
add spice as given above. If the spices are ground, tie them in a 
hag, and if whole steep them in the water before adding to the 
syrup. Select perfect, ripe apples, cook a few at a time until ten- 
der. Fill a stone jar and cover with the hot syrup. The spices 
may be omitted. 



430 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

BEETS. 
4 pounds brown sugar, 1 ounce whole cloves, 

1 gallon cider vinegar, 1 ounce ginger root, 

1 ounce stick cinnamon, 2 red peppers, 

yi ounce whole peppers. 
In the fall when beets are ripe, prepare small ones for pickling 
by boiling them in the ordinary way until tender ; remove the skins 
and pack them closety into stone jars without slicing. While they 
are still warm, cover with the hot spiced syrup. Scald the syrup 
for 3 successive days and pour over the beets. Tie a heavy cloth, 
and brown paper cover over the jar. This amount of syrup will 
cover 4 gallons of beets. They will keep best just above the freez- 
ing temperature. 

BLACKBERRIES. 
6 pounds berries, 2 teaspoons cinnamon, 

2 pounds sugar, 1 teaspoon cloves, 

1 pint vinegar. 

Make a syrup of the sugar, vinegar and spices. When hot, cook 
the fruit 10 minutes ; skim the berries into a gallon jar, cover with 
the syrup, and turn a plate over them to keep them below the sur- 
face. Tie a double fold of cloth and thick paper over the jar when 
the fruit is cold. Or, can the berries while hot. 

CHERRIES. 

1 pint sugar, 1 tablespoon cinnamon, 

1 pint vinegar, K tablespoon cloves. 

Make a syrup, and add the spices tied in a bag. When it boils 
drop in large firm cherries, first pricking them with a needle. Cook 
a few at a time, and skim out when tender into a jar. Fill to within 
an inch of the top, and cover with a plate easily fitting inside. Let 
the syrup boil down to the desired quantUyand pour over the cher- 
ries. Heav} r cloth and thick brown paper should he tied over the 
jar when the fruit is cold. Good for use in three months. 

cucumbers — 1 . 

1 pint sugar, }i ounce whole cloves, 

1 quart vinegar, }4 ounce mace, 

1 ounce stick -cinnarrion. 

Select ripe solid cucumbers, pare, quarter, remove the seeds, and 

endeavor to have the pieces of uniform size. Soak over night in 



PICKLES. 431 

2 gallons of soft water, to which has been added 1 teaspoon alum 
and a cup of salt. In the morning drain thoroughlj r , and add to 
the hot, spiced syrup. Avoid crowding. Cook slowly until tender, 
and take out the pieces into a jar. When done and cool, turn a 
plate over them ; cover the jar with buttered paper, and tie it on 
tightly, putting two thicknesses of pasteboard over it. These pickles 
keep perfectly two years. 

CUCUMBERS — 2. 

3 pounds sugar, 2 quarts vinegar, 

1 ounce clove*. 2 ounces cinnamon, 

7 pounds cucumbers. 

Pare the cucumbers, scrape out the seeds, cut into strips and let 
stand over night in salt and water. In the morning drain, and cook 
till tender. Make a hot. spiced syrup, put in the cucumbers, cook 
2<> minutes and can. 

currants — 1. 

3 pounds sugar, y 2 tablespoon cinnamon, 

5 pounds currants, y 2 cup raisins, 

1 pint vinegar, 1 nutmeg. 

Tie the grated nutmeg and cinnamon in a bag and add with the 
raisins to the syrup. When the raisins are cooked, take out the 
spices, add the currants stemmed, and let them boil 5 minutes, 
skim them out into a jar. Boil the syrup 10 minutes and pour over 
the fruit. When cold cover closely, and set in a cool dry place, 
Blueberries may be spiced by this receipe. 

currants — 2. 

5 pounds stemmed currants, 1 tablespoon cinnamon, 

4 pounds sugar, 2 teaspoons cloves, 

1 pint vinegar. 

Let the currants be barely ripe. Boil the spices in a bag in a 
little water until their strength is extracted, and add the water to 
the hot syrup with the currants. Cook thein slowly 15 minutes. 
Skim them out into a large jar. If the syrup resembles jelly pour 
over the fruit; if not, boil it down and add to the currants. When 
cold cover tightly and keep in a cool dry place. This is an old- 
fashioned recipe. 



432 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

ELDERBERRIES. 
4 pounds sugar, 2 ounces stick cinnamon, 

1 pint cider vinegar, 2 ounces cloves, 

8 pounds berries. 
Boil the sugar, vinegar, cinnamon and cloves 10 minutes; skim 
out the spices and put in the berries ; boil thoroughly, skim out 
the berries and let the syrup boil down to half the quantity. Pour 
it over the berries and seal while hot. 

GOOSEBERRIES. 

3 pints sugar, 1 pint vinegar, 

Cinnamon and cloves. 

Make a hot syrup and add ripe gooseberries, carefull)* wiped ; 
boil until tender, and when half done add the spices. The pickle 
should have a jelly-like consistency. Pack in small jars and cover 
closely. 

GRAPES — 1. 
3 pounds sugar, 2 tablespoons cinnamon, 

G pounds grapes, 2 teaspoons cloves, 

1 pint vinegar, 1 teaspoon mace. 

Boil the grapes till tender and put through a coarse sieve or col- 
ander to remove skins and seeds. Cook 1 hour iu the hot spiced 
vinegar. 

GRAPES — 2. 

3 pounds sugar, l ounce cinnamon, 

7 pounds fruit, 1 grated nutmeg, 

1 quart vinegar. 

Tie the spices in a bag and boil in the syrup. Take perfect 

bunches of grapes, lay them in the boiling syrup until thoroughly 

heated. Lift them into jars, pour the syrup over them, and cover 

when cold. 

MELONS. 

5 pounds fruit, % ounce whole cloves. 

3 pounds sugar, 1 quart vinegar, 

1 ounce stick cinnamon. 

Select nutmeg melons, not quite ripe ; open them, scrape out the 
pulp, peel, slice and put in a stone jar ; scald the sugar and vine- 
gar together and pour over the fruit daily, for 8 successive days. 
The ninth day scald the fruit, vinegar and spices together, and seal 



PICKLES. 433 

in jars. This pickle should stand 2 or 3 months before using. Blue 
plums are delicious prepared in this way. 

PEACHES. 

3 pints vinegar, 5 pounds sugar, 

1 ounce cloves, 7 pounds fruit, • 

2 ounces cinnamon. 
Pour boiling water over medium-sized peaches and pare with a 
silver knife. Extract the strength of the spices in a little water, 
and add to the sugar and vinegar. Drop the peaches into the 
boiling syrup, avoid crowding, and when easily pierced with a 
broom straw put in jars. Cover with the syrup and seal ; or, pack 
in stone crocks with covers well tied on. Peaches may be rubbed 
carefully to remove the down, and cooked without paring. If 
sourer peaches are desired take 3 pounds sugar to 7 pounds fruit. 

PEARS. 

Use the general recipe. The pears may or may not be pared. 
Make the spiced syrup, and when boiling lay in the pears, cover 
and boil slowly. Take out when tender, pour over them the boil- 
ing syrup, and when cold, tie a cotton and paper cover over the jar. 

FRENCH PICKLE. 

1 peck green tomatoes, 1 tablespoon cinnamon, 
6 large onions, ^ tablespoon cloves, 

2 quarts vinegar, % tablespoon allspice, 
2 pound's brown sugar, J£ tablespoon ginger, 

1 cup salt, 1 teaspoon cayenne pepper, 

% pound white mustard seed. 

Slice the tomatoes and onions, place them in layers in a jar, 
sprinkling with the salt ; let stand 24 hours. Drain, and boil 20 
minutes in 2 quarts water and 1 quart vinegar, and drain again. 
Put the mustard seed, sugar, and spices tied in a bag into the vin- 
egar. When hot add the pickle and boil 15 minutes, or until clear 
and tender. 

PLUMS. 

8 pounds plums, 2 teaspoons cinnamon, 

4 pounds sugar, 1 teaspoon cloves, 

1 pint vinegar. 
Make a hot spiced syrup, and drop in the plums after they have 
been carefully wiped. Cook slowl}-, avoid crowding them, and take 



434 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

out into a stone jar. Cook the syrup a little longer, and pour over 
the plums. Cover when cold. 

EUCHRED PLUMS. 
9 pounds blue plums, 1 ounce cinnamon, 

6 pounds sugar, 1 quart vinegar. 

Make a spiced syrup, and pour while boiling over the plums. 
For four successive days turn off the syrup, bring to a boil and 
pour over the fruit. The fifth day boil all 20 minutes. 

RAISINS. 

2 pounds raisins, ]/ z pound sugar, 

1 pint vinegar. 

Make a hot syrup, add the raisins on the otem, and simmer slowly 
half an hour. 

STRAWBERRIES. 
G quarts berries, 3 pints sugar, 

2 cups vinegar. 

Fill a jar with layers of berries, sprinkling each layer with cin- 
namon and cloves. Pour over them the hot syrup, and let stand 
24 hours. Pour off the syrup, heat and return to the fruit. Let 
stand 24 hours, and boil all slowly 25 minutes. Keep in covered 
jars. To keep the strawberry flavor omit the spices. Pineapple 
may be prepared in the same way. 

GREEN TOMATO 1. 

2 pounds firm tomatoes, iyi pounds brown sugar, 

1 pint strong vinegar. 

Pare the tomatoes and cook 30 minutes in equal parts of vinegar 
and water. Make a syrup, spice with bits of mace, cinnamon and 
ginger root, and boil 20 minutes. Add the tomatoes, well-drained, 
and cook 45 minutes. Put into jars and pour over the syrup; 
when cool, cover tightly and keep in a cool dry place. 

GREEN TOMATO 2. 

8 pounds green tomatoes, 2 teaspoons cinnamon, 

4 pounds brown sugar, 1 teaspoon mace, 

1 quart vinegar, 1 teaspoon cloves. 

Chop the tomatoes fine, add the sugar and boil 3 hours. Pour 
into the tomatoes the spiced vinegar and boil 15 minutes. Cool, 
put in jars and cover closely. 



PICKLES. 435 

RirE TOMATO. 

4 pounds sugar, 7 pounds fruit, 

1 quart vinegar. 

Boil sticks of cinnamon in the syrup, and add the tomatoes, 

pared and drained, and cook until quite thick ; they must be kept 

in air-tight cans, and watched closely. 

SPICED TOMATO. 
4 pounds fruit, y z ounce stick cinnamon, 

2 pounds brown sugar, J^ ounce whole cloves, 

1 pint vinegar. 
Make a hot spiced syrup, and cook the tomatoes ; take them oui, 
and let the syrup cook slowly. When the tomatoes are cool return 
to the syrup and cook ten minutes. When cold put in jars. The 
syrup- must be as thick as molasses, and cold before pouring over 
the fruit. Seal or tie them up carefully. 

WATERMELON. 

2 quarts vinegar, 1 ounce cinnamon, 

6 pounds sugar, % ounce cloves, 

4 quarts watermelon pieces. 
Remove the green rind from a ripe watermelon, trim oh" the soft 
red core, cut in 2-inch pieces, sprinkle with salt, and let stand all 
night. In the morning rinse well and drain. Put the spices in a 
bag and add to the sweet vinegar. Put in the fruit and boil slowly 
till tender. Take out the melon into a stone jar, boil down the. 
liquid till a sufficient quantity is left to cover the pickle, pouring 
it on while scalding hot. The syrup may be drained off, scalded 
and poured over the melon in a few days. Or, cover the same 
amount of melon pieces with water, adding 1 tablespoon salt, and 
boil till tender. Or, steam them over the salted water. Drain, 
wipe, put into a boiling syrup made in the given proportions; take 
out the fruit in 20 minutes, or when clear, and cover with the 
liquid, which may be turned off heated and poured over the melon 
for three successive days. 



RELISHES. 



CATSUPS, sauces and vinegars come under this caption and 
are served with various dishes, or incorporated into others, to 
give an appetizing or piquant flavor. 

COLD CATSUP. 

%. peck tomatoes, . }-£ cup salt, 

4 heads celery, % cup white mustard seed, 

3 white onions, 2 red peppers, 

1 cup nasturtiums, 1 tablespoon black pepper, 

1 cup horse-radish, 1 tablespoon ground cinnamon, 

1 cup sugar, 1 teaspoon ground cloves, 

1 quart vinegar. 
Chop ripe tomatoes and the onions and sprinkle with salt, letting 
them stand 2 hours. Chop finely the celery, red peppers and nas- 
turtium seeds, and grate the horse-radish. Mix these with the salt, 
spices, sugar, and vinegar. Drain the tomatoes and onions, mix 
thoroughly with the other ingredients, and seal in jars. 

CUCUMBER CATSUP. 

3 onions, 1 tablespoon salt, 

3 red peppers, 1 quart vinegar, 

12 large ripe cucumbers. 

Pare, seed and grate the cucumbers. Let the pulp drain all 

night from a thin bag. Throw away the juice and add the salt and 

vinegar to the pulp, with finely chopped onions and peppers. Mix 

well and seal in bottles. Serve with fish. 

CURRANT CATSUP. 
3 quarts currant juice, 1 tablespoon cinnamon, 

3 pounds sugar, 1 teaspoon cloves, 

1 pint vinegar, 1 teaspoon pepper, 

1 teaspoon nutmeg. 
Boil 20 minutes, then put in bottles and cork tight. 

GOOSEBERRY CATSUP. 

8 pounds gooseberries, 4 ounces cinnamon, 

4 pounds brown sugar, 2 ounces cloves, 

1 pint vinegar. 
The gooseberries should be almost ripe. Wash and put them 

436 



RELISHES. 437 

into a porcelain kettle ; rnash, scald and rub them through a course 
sieve ; add the sugar and boil 3 hours, then the spices tied in a 
bag, and cook a little longer. Add or omit vinegar and bottle im- 
mediately. 

GRAPE CATSUP. 

5 pounds grapes, 1 tablespoon cinnamon, 
2% pounds sugar, 1 tablespoon cloves, 

1 tablespoon allspice, H tablespoon salt, " 

1 tablespoon pepper, 1 pint vinegar. 

Stew the grapes over a slow fire until soft. Then strain through 

a sieve. Add the sugar, vinegar and spices. "Boil until thickened 

and bottle. 

MUSHROOM CATSUP. 

1 ounce whole allspice, % ounce ginger root, 
24 wholo cloves, 1 blade mace. 

Wipe freshl}--gathered mushrooms and put in layers in an earth- 
en dish, sprinkling each la}-er with salt. Cover with a damp folded 
cloth, and let stand 36 hours in a warm place. Strain through a 
coarse sieve. To 1 quart juice add 1 ounce peppercorns ; put in 
a kettle and boil half an hour ; add the spices, let simmer gently 
15 minutes, take from the fire and cool. When cold, strain and 
seal in glass bottles. 

SUPERIOR CATSUP. 
% bushel tomatoes, 1 tablespoon cayenne pepper, 

3 tablespoons salt, 1 tablespoon allspice, 

2 tablespoons sugar, 1 tablespoon cloves. 

Slice the tomatoes, boil 15 minutes or till tender, strain through 
a hair sieve, add the other ingredients and cook down slowly in a 
porcelaindined kettle to half the quantity. Three white onions may 
be added, and if very sour catsup is liked one cup of vinegar, just 
before bottling ; otherwise it is no improvement. 

GREEN TOMATO CATSUP. 
4 quarts tomatoes, 2 tablespoons mustard, 

2 quarts cabbage, 2 tablespoons pepper, 
1 pint onions, 2 tablespoons ginger, 

6 pods red peppers, 1 tablespoon cloves, 

1 pound brown sugar, 1 tablespoon cinnamon, 

1 tablespoon horse-radish, 1 tablespoon mace. 

Chop finely the tomatoes, cabbage, onions and peppers; sprinkle 



438 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

with salt and let stand over night. Drain, add the spices and sugar 
and boil slowly 4 hours ; it should be thick and smooth. Keep in 
bottles. 

TOMATO CATSUP. 

1 bushel tomatoes, 2 ounces allspice, 
12 white onions, 1 ounce cloves, 

2 pounds brown sugar, 2 ounces mustard, 
2 quarts vinegar, 2 grated nutmegs, 

1 pint salt. 
Select firm ripe tomatoes, wipe them with a damp cloth, and 
slice into a porcelain-lined kettle. Pour over them 3 pints water, 
and throw in the sliced onions and 2 handfuls peach leaves. Boil 
till the tomatoes are soft, which will take from 1 to 2 hours. Strain 
through a coarse sieve, return the liquid to the kettle and add the 
spices ground and mixed, the salt, sugar and vinegar. Mix well 
together before setting over the fire. Boil slowly 2 hours, stirring 
almost constantly to prevent burning. Cayenne pepper may be 
added to taste. Fill bottles and seal. Keep in a cool dry place. 

WALNUT CATSUP. 

Gather walnuts while sufficiently tender to run a needle through 
them. Pound in stone mortar. Put them into a porcelain-lined ket- 
tle, cover with water and cook slowly 2 or 3 hours. Strain, and add 
to the liquor 1 teaspoon each ground mace and cloves ; boil down 
to one-third the quantity. Fill the bottles with equal parts of the 
mixture and strong vinegar and seal immediately. A little garlic 
may lie added with the spices. 

WORCESTERSHIRE CATSUP. 
1 gill walnut catsup, % ounce cayenne pepper, 

% gill made mustard, 10 whole cloves, 

4 heads bruised garlic, 1 blade mace, 

6 mashed anchovies, 1 quart vinegar. 

Mix all tl e ingredients but the catsup and mustard, cover and 
let stand 18 hours. Sift and add the catsup and mustard. Keep 
2 weeks in a stone jug; then bottle and seal. 

PREPARED HORSE-RADISH. 
1 coffeecup grated horse-radish, 2 tablespoons white sugar, 

% teaspoon salt, 1 pint cold vinegar. 

Mix thoroughly and keep well corked in a large-mouthed bottle. 



RELISHES. 439 

PREPARED MUSTARD 1. 

2 tablespoons mustard, 1 teaspoon sugar, 

1 tablespoon butter, ^ teaspoon salt, 

1 tablespoon cream, Cayenne pepper, 

Boiling water. 

Mix mustard, sugar, salt, and a sprinkling of pepper in a stone 

cup. Set on the stove and pour slowly into it the water until very 

thin. Let boil slowl}', stirring occasionally until of the required 

thickness. Add butter, beating it in well. Take off and stir in a 

little cream ; it adds to the softness of the mustard but may be 

omitted. One tablespoon vinegar may be added. 

PREPARED MUSTARD 2. 

3 tablespoons ground mustard, 1 tablespoon flour, 

1 teaspoon sugar, X cup boiling water, 

1 teaspoon salt, % cup vinegar. 

Mix the mustard, flour, salt and sugar; pour on boiling water 
until a smooth paste is made ; boil until thick and add the vinegar 
when cold. This resembles the French mustard. 

TOMATO MUSTARD. 

1 tablespoon cayenne pepper, 1 tablespoon black pepper, 

1 teaspoon cloves, 2 tablespoons mustard, 

2 tablespoons salt, 1 peck tomatoes. 

Cut the tomatoes in small pieces and boil till tender; rub through 
a sieve and boil till nearly dry ; add the spices and boil a little 
longer ; when cold, bottle and cork it tightly. If not salt enough, 
add more before the last boiling. Put a tablespoonfnl of sweet 
oil on the mustard before it is corked, to exclude the air. 

CURRY POWDER. 
M pound cayenne pepper, 3 ounces coriander seed, 

1 ounce ginger, 1 ounce mustard, 

1 ounce pepper, 'i ounce cardamom, 

3 ounces tumeric, '4 ounce cummin seed. 
Powder, mix and sift these spices, and keep in a tightly corked 

bottle. One teaspoonful of the powder is sufficient for ordinary 
use. 

SPICED SALT — 1. 

\ s ounce cayenne pepper, % ounce bay leaf, 

' 4 ounce thyme, M ounce marjoram, 

% ounce pepper, % ounce cloves, 

Yi ounce nutmeg, grated. 



440 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

Dry, powder and sift these and mix thoroughly. To every 4 
ounces of this mixture add 1 ounce of salt. This is an excellent 
seasoning for soups, dressings, and veal loaves. One ounce powder 
is sufficient for three pounds. 

spiced salt — 2. 
4 ounces salt, % ounce cayenne pepper, 

1 ounce thyme, 1 ounce black pepper, 

1 ounce summer savory, 1 ounce sweet majoram, 

y 2 ounce cloves, 1 ounce celery salt, 

y 2 ounce mace, K ounce allspice. 

Mix all together, sift several times, and keep the salt closely 
covered. 

CHETNEY SAUCE. 
1 pound sour apples, y 2 ounce cayenne pepper, 

1 pound raisins, 1 quart vinegar, 

Yz pound fine salt, 1 pound sugar, 

% pound onions, % pound ginger. 

Stone the raisins, bake and mash the apples, taking out the cores 
and skins, grate the onions, mix all the ingredients together and 
boil. Stir occasional^', and bottle in 2 days. Tomatoes may be 
used instead of apples. 

INDIAN CHETNEY SAUCE. 
14 pound sour apples, % pound powdered ginger, 

14 pound ripe tomatoes, % pound cayenne pepper, 

% pound raisins, 2 ounces garlic, 

K pound salt, 2 ounces shallots, 

% pound brown sugar, 3 quarts vinegar, 

1 quart lemon juice. 
Stone the raisins, pare, core, and chop the apples fine and add 
the rest of the ingredients. Mix well together ; put in a closely 
covered jar ; keep in a warm place, and stir daily for a month. 
Strain and put away in bottles for use. 

CHILI SAUCE. 
12 large ripe tomatoes, 4 ripe, or 3 green peppers, 

2 onions, 2 tablespoons salt, 

2 tablespoons sugar, 1 tablespoon cinnamon, 

3 cups vinegar. 
Peel the tomatoes and onions, add the peppers, slice and chop 
fine. Mix with the other ingredients and boil 1^- hours. This will 
keep a long time bottled and set in a diy, dark, cool place. 



RELISHES. 441 

HORSE-RADISH SAUCE. 

1 tablespoon tumeric, 1 cup grated horse-radish, 

1 tablespoon mustard, 4 tablespoons vinegar, 

1 tablespoon sugar, 4 tablespoons olive oil. 

Beat all together well. Serve with cold fish. 

PEPPER SAUCE. 

3 dozen peppers, 2 heads chopped cabbage, 

1 grated horse-radish root, Mustard seed, cloves and sugar. 
Boil in 2 quarts of vinegar and strain through a sieve. 

GREEN TOMATO SAUCE. 

4 quarts tomatoes, 1 tablespoon cinnamon, 

1 pint onions, 2 tablespoons salt, 

1 pint sugar, 1 tablespoon mustard, 

2 quarts vinegar, 2 teaspoons allspice, 

Cayenne pepper to taste. 
Chop* the tomatoes and onions very fine. Mix the other ingre- 
dients, heat, add the chopped vegetables and cook 1£ hours, or till 
very tender. Bottle and keep like Chili sauce. 

CHILLY VINEGAR. 

Put 50 chopped or bruised chillies into a pint of finest vinegar. 

CLOVER VINEGAR. 
2 quarts clover blossoms, 1 quart molasses, 

9 quarts soft water, 1 pint yeast. 

Pour the boiling water over the molasses ; when at the temper- 
ature of new milk, add the clover blossoms and the yeast. In 2 
weeks strain through a bag. Nothing will mould in this vinegar. 

CRESS VINEGAR. 

Add 2 quarts vinegar to 1 ounce crushed cress. 

HONEY VINEGAR. 

1 quart clear honey, 8 quarts warm water, 

1 pint yeast. 

Mix well, add yeast and keep in a warm place till sufficiently 

sour. After the acetous fermentation, a white vinegar will be 

formed, in many respects superior to the common vinegar. 

HOME-MADE VINEGAR. 

Put all parings of apples as the}' accumulate into a stone crock, 
keeping them covered with water. When soft, squeeze the pulp 
through a jelly bag, put the liquid in jugs, adding any sweets that 
may have been saved, and a very little brown sugar, not more than 



442 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

half a pound to 1 gallon liquid. Tie a thin cloth over the mouth 
of the jug and set in a warm place to sour. If a little vinegar plant 
or mother is added the vinegar will be sooner ready for use. 

HORSE-RADISH VINEGAR. 
% pound grated horse-radish, 1 teaspoon cayenne pepper, 

2.quarts vinegar, 2 ounces shallots. 

Chop the shallots fine, and add with the vinegar to the other in- 
gredients. 

MINT VINEGAR 

Fill loosely a wide-mouthed bottle with fresh, clean peppermint, 
spearmint, or garden parsley leaves, cover with good vinegar, cork 
tightly, leave 2 or 3 weeks, pour off into another bottle, and seal. 
This is excellent for cold meats, soups and dressings for roasts ; 
celery seed may be used in the same way. 

PEPPER VINEGAR. 

Fill a quart bottle with small peppers, green or ripe, put in 2 
tablespoons sugar, and fill with good vinegar. Use in fish or meat 
sauces. 

SAP OR STTGAR VINEGAR. 

Boil down 4 pails of sap to one-fourth the quantity, add the 
mother from good vinegar and set in a warm place. This will not 
be ready for use under 2 months. It is desirable to make enough 
to last one year. Use the same receptacle each year. The pro- 
portions for sugar vinegar are 1 quart sugar to 7 quarts moder- 
ately warm water. Add good mother, set in a warm place, or, if 
put in a large open-mouthed jar, tie very thin muslin over it and 
let it stand in the sun. Either of these recipes are nice. 

SPICED VINEGAR. 

3 pounds sugar, 2 ounces mustard seed, 

3 ounces whole pepper, 2 ounces whole mace, 

2 ounces white ginger, 2 ounces whole cloves, 

2 ounces tumeric, 2 ounces whole allspice, 

2 ounces celery seed. 
Cut the ginger into very small pieces ; mix the spices and put 
them in bags of strong but thin muslin ; lay them in a 3-gallon 
crock, and fill with good vinegar. Keep lightly covered, and use 
for pickles, salads, and sauces. If desired it can be put in quart 
or small bottles, and sealed. 



RELISHES. 443 

TARRAGON VINEGAR. 

Gather the tarragon just before it blossoms, strip it from the 
larger stalks and put into small stone jars or a wide-necked bottle ; 
in doing this twist the branches, bruising the leaves. Cover with 
vinegar ; let it stand 2 months or longer, pour off, strain, put into 
small bottles, cork well and use as sauce for meats. 

MISCELLANEOUS RELISHES. 

As it is the custom in many families to serve dinner at night, 
the midday meal is lighter and more informal. Healthful and ap- 
petizing food is as important for lunch as other meals, and the 
opportunity is good for serving remnants of food iu an attractive 
and palatable form. Cheese is ordinarily a stimulant, and there- 
fore to be used in small quantities, but is then an aid to digestion. 
Rusk, biscuit, crackers, or thin slices of bread and butter should 
be served with salads and cheese courses. Salads and fruit should 
form a considerable portion of the lunch, and if a dessert is served, 
it must be -of the simplest character. 

DEVILLED BISCUIT. 

Split water crackers, butter, and sprinkle with grated cneese, or 
lay on thin slices of cheese ; pepper with cayenne, put in a pan and 
sot in a hot oven until the cheese is melted. Serve hot. The 
cheese nmy be omitted, but more butter must then be used. 

COTTAGE CHEESE. 

Let the milk stand until it becomes a curd, which will take from 
24 to 48 hours. Set it on the back of the stove, which must not 
he sufficiently warm to scald the curd. If that occurs the cheese 
Incomes hard, leather}-, and crumbles in dry grains. Let the milk 
stand till the whey rises to the top and the curd begins to crack. 
Pour it into a coarse muslin or cheese-cloth bag ; tie the top to- 
gether with strong twine and hang it on a large hook or nail to 
drip. Catch the whey in a pan, and when it ceases to drop take 
down the bag and mix the curd with a little salt, a large piece of 
butter, and enough sweet cream to soften it. Serve very cold, 
either in a mass, or formed into soft balls. 



444 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

SCALLOPED CHEESE. 

4 slices bread, 2 cups grated cheese, 

5 well-beaten eggs, 3 cups milk. 

Trim the crust from the bread, butter and place in layers in a 
buttered pudding dish, sprinkling each slice with the cheese and a 
little salt and pepper. Beat the eggs thoroughly, stir into the 
heated milk, strain and pour over the bread and cheese. Bake in 
a hot oven as a charlotte. 

TOASTED CHEESE. 

1 cup grated cheese, 1 tablespoon butter. 

% cup cream, 1 egg yolk. 

Cut buttered toast in dainty shapes. Set the cream on the lire, 
melt the cheese slowly in it, take off, and while hot stir in the but- 
ter and the beaten yolk of egg with a dash of cayenne pepper. 
Spread the toast with the cheese and serve immediately on hot 
plates. Or, toast and butter slices of bread, melt the cheese, stir 
into it a little pepper and made mustard, and when the cheese is 
thoroughly dissolved, brown and spread on the hot toast. Serve 
on hot plates immediately or it is spoiled. 

CURDS AND WHEY. 

4 quarts new milk. 4 tablespoons prepared rennet, 

Sugar and cream. 

Stir the rennet into the milk while warm, and when a curd forms 
tie it loosely in a bag and hang it up to drain, or lay in a cloth on 
a sieve. When drained, cool in the ice box. If any whe} T remains 
in the dish dip it off without breaking the curd. Serve with sugar 
and cream. A little nutmeg grated into the cream improves the 
flavor. Or, when the curd forms set it in the ice box, and serve 
cold with cream and sugar. This should be made but a short time 
before using. 

CHEESE AND EGGS. 
14. cup milk or cream, % saltspoon made mustard, 

1 cup grated cheese, 4 slices of toast, 

4 poached eggs, Salt and cayenne pepper. 

Let the slices of toast be thin, square, well-buttered, and soft- 
ened with boiling water. Keep hot. Heat the milk, add the cheese, 
salt, pepper and mustard, and stir until the cheese is dissolved. 



RELISHES. 445 

Pour over the hot toast, and place an egg on the top of each slice. 
Serve immediate^. 

CHEESE F0NDU. 

}£ pound grated cheese, K cup milk, 

% pound flour, 4 eggs, 

% pound butter, Salt and pepper. 

Let the milk boil ; melt the butter, mix well with the flour, add 
to the boiling milk and stir till it thickens. Take it from the fire, 
and in a few minutes beat in thoroughly the yolks of the eggs, 
salt, pepper, cheese, and a little nutmeg, if liked. Add the well- 
beaten whites last and pour at once into a buttered pudding dish. 
Bake 20 minutes in a quick oven, and serve immediately in the 
same dish. 

CHEESE SANDWICHES. 

Butter slices of white or brown bread. Lay on one a slice of 
cheese one-quarter of an inch thick. Cover with another slice, and 
put in the oven. When the bread is toasted serve very quickly on 
a hot plate. 

CHEESE STRAWS. 

1 cup grated cheese, li saltspoon salt and cayenne, 

1 cup flour, 2 ounces butter. 

Mix the flour and cheese, add the butter, salt aud pepper, and 
mix into a paste with cold water or the yolk of an egg. Roll out 
one-fourth of an inch thick and cut in strips half an inch wide by 
6 inches long, lay on a sheet of paper and bake in a hot oven. These 
will bake in a few minutes. Serve cold, tied in a bunch with nar- 
row ribbon or piled nicely on a fancy plate. Straws can be made 
from puff paste by rolling in grated cheese and cutting in strips. 

RAMAKINS. 

Pun" paste may be used for these. Roll it out evenly, and sprinkle 
with grated armesan or any nice cheese. Fold the paste in three, 
roll out again, sprinkle with the cheese, fold, roll out and cut it in 
any fancy shape. Bake the ramakins from 10 to 15 minutes in a 
quick oven, and serve immediately on a hot napkin. The)' are im- 
proved by brushing with the yolk of an egg before baking. 



44li HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

KAMAK1N TOAST. 

4 tablespoons grated cheese, 2 teaspoons made mustard, 
2 tablespoons butter, % saltspoon cayenne pepper, 

4 eggs, yolks, 1 saltspoon salt. 

Mix all together, heat and spread on 6 slices of buttered toast 
and brown in a hot oven. 

WELSH RAREBIT. 
1 cup milk, 1 teaspoon made mustard, 

Salt and cayenne, 3 eggs, yolks, 

2 cups grated rich cheese. 
Cut the crust from slices of bread, then toast, butter, and moisten 
with a little boiling water. Set the milk over the fire and when 
boiling stir in the cheese ; after it is dissolved, add the pepper, 
salt and mustard. Take from the stove, stir in quickly the beaten 
eggs, and pour at once on the hot toast. Serve immediately on hot 
plates. Add a little butter if the cheese is not very rich. 

SANDWICHES. 

The bread must be a day old. Spread lightly with butter and 
salad dressing, and when two slices are ready lay between them 
thin slices of ham, tongue or corned beef. Cut the slices in halves, 
triangles, squares, diamonds, or crescents. Or, the meat may be 
chopped finely, seasoned with a dressing, and spread on the but- 
tered slices. A crisp lettuce leaf between the salad and the bread 
gives an attractive appearance and preserves the freshness of the 
sandwich. An appetizing and novel sandwich is made by spread- 
ing the buttered bread with finely minced raw beef seasoned with 
salt and pepper. Rolled sandwiches are made by cutting the crust 
from the bread, slicing very thin, spreading first with butter, then 
with a finely chopped meat mixture and rolling up like a piece of 
paper. A nice mixture is made from equal parts of chopped 
chicken and tongue, seasoned with celery salt, pepper and salt and 
salad dressing. 

ANCHOVY TOAST. 

Cut the crust from slices of bread, toast brown, butter and spread 
with anchovy paste. This is made by pressing a few anchovies 
through a sieve, mixing them with a little melted butter, and spic- 
ing with cayenne. A heartier relish is made by laying a poached 
egg on the toast thus prepared. 



SALADS. 

THE materials for salad must be fresh and of the best quality, 
and their combination harmonious. Lettuce, celery and cress 
must be washed carefully, dried lightly and handled delicately. 
Lettuce and cress should be shredded with the fingers, celery and 
cabbage cut with a knife, vegetable salads stirred as little as possi- 
ble, and all salads served the day they are prepared. All gristle, 
fat, and skin must be removed from fowl or meat, and the flesh cut 
in pieces with a knife. 

All the ingredients of a salad, as well as the bowl, fork and spoon, 
used in the preparation should be very cold, and the dressing be 
mixed in a cool place. Salad dressing cannot be made in a hurry, 
and requires both carefulness and patience on the part of the one 
who prepares it. 

Be careful that the olive oil is the best ; powder the yolks of 
hard-boiled eggs in a mortar, or rub them smooth with the back of 
a spoon ; beat the yolks of raw eggs thoroughly, and save the 
whites for cake or icing for they add nothing to the salad. Add 
the dry things to the eggs first, and if it is of the character of a 
mayonnaise dressing, stir well together. Add the oil, drop by drop, 
stirring or rubbing steadily and in one direction, occasionally drop- 
ping in a little vinegar to prevent cracking, or more oil to stop 
curdling. Mix until smooth and of the consistency of thick cream. 
Long practice will enable one to use nearly half a cup of oil with 
an egg. A mayonnaise dressing is very difficult to make, but a 
favorite when prepared. The juice of a lemon may be substituted 
for vinegar, but it whitens the dressing. Fresh sweet butter and 
sweet cream may be used in place of oil. A cooked dressing is 
made in a similar manner to boiled custard, beating the eggs, con- 
diments, vinegar, etc. together, and cooking in boiling water. The 
butter ma\ r be added before the dressing is taken from the stove, 
but it is better not to add the cream until afterward. All except 
hot dressing should be made at least three hours before using. 

447 



448 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

The following salad rhyme of Sidney Smith loses none of its 
charm through repetition: 

SALAD DRESSING. 

To make this condiment your poet begs 

The pounded yellow of two hard-boiled eggs; 

Two boiled potatoes, passed through kitchen sieve, 

Smoothness and softness to the salad give; 

Let onion atoms lurk within the bowl, 

And, half suspected, animate the whole; 

Of mordant mustard, add a single spoon, 

Distrust the condiment that bites so soon; 

But, deem it not, thou man of herbs, a fault 

To add a double quantity of salt; 

Four times the spoon with oil from Lucca crown; 

And twice with vinegar procured from town; 

And lastly, o'er the favorite compound toss 

A magic soupcon of anchovy sauce. 

green and glorious! herbaceous treat! 
'Twould tempt the dying anchorite to eat; 
Back to the world he'd turn his fleeting soul, 
And plunge his fingers in the salad bowl; 
Serenely full, the epicure would say, 

"Fate cannot harm me — I have dined to-day. " 

SALAD DRESSING — 1. 

1 tablespoon mustard, 1 coffecup vinegar, 

2 tablespoons cream, 1 teaspoon salt, 

3 tablespoons butter, X teaspoon pepper, 

3 eggs. 

Beat the eggs, adding the salt, pepper, mustard, melted butter, 
cream or milk, and vinegar ; put in a double boiler and cook till 
smooth and thick, stirring to prevent burning. Use with cabbage 
or potato salad. 

SALAD DRESSING — 2. 
2 eggs, yolks, 2 teaspoons white sugar, 

Yz teaspoon pepper, 1 teaspoon salt, 

2 teaspoons made mustard, 1 tablespoon butter, 
% cup vinegar, % cup milk. 

Beat thoroughly the yolks of the eggs in a bowl ; mix with the 



SALADS. 449 

other ingredients ; set in a kettle of hot water and stir constantly 
till it thickens. When cool, it is ready for use. This is sufficient 
for 3 pints of sliced cabbage, and should be thoroughly mixed with 
the cabbage before serving. 

BOTTLED SALAD DRESSING. 
8 eggs, 1 tablespoon black pepper, 

1 cup sugar, 1 tablespoon salt, 

1 cup cream, 1 tablespoon mustard, 

1 cup butter, 1% pints vinegar, 

A pinch cayenne. 

Beat the yolks of eggs, add the other ingredients except the 
butter and mix thoroughl}' ; heat the vinegar, add the butter, boil 
and pour over the mixture, stir well while cooking, and when cold 
bottle and set in a cool place. It will keep for weeks in the hot- 
test weather and is excellent for cabbage or lettuce. 

GOOD SALAD DRESSING. 
3 eggs, yolks, 1 tablespoon mustard, 

1 cup vinegar, y z tablespoon sugar, 

% cup warm water, 1 teaspoon salt, 

}i cup cream, or butter, Cayenne pepper. 

Mix the sugar, salt, pepper, mustard and water; when smooth 
add the cream or melted butter. Let it come to a boil ; take from 
the fire, and whip into the previously beaten eggs. Cook in boiling 
water, and when thickened, add the vinegar gradually. Use when 
cold. Or, beat the eggs and condiments together ; add the vine- 
gar and water and cook in a custard kettle until thick. Take from 
the fire and beat in the cream. In place of warm water use milk, 
and the sharpness of the vinegar will be modified. Good for use 
with any salad. 

FRENCH DRESSING. 

}•.; cup olive oil, 1 tablespoon vinegar, 

Salt and pepper. 
Add salt and pepper to the oil, which must be of the finest qual- 
ity, in the proportion of twice as much salt as pepper ; a little 
mustard man}' think is an improvement ; beat in slowly the vinegar 
that the whole may be of a creamy consistenc}'. Vary the amount 
of vinegar according to the salad, or rub in smooth the 3 r olk of a 
hard-boiled egg with the salt and pepper, and add vinegar and oil 



450 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

as in a maj-onnaise dressing. Use with artichokes, endive, let- 
tuce, cress, cucumbers or celery ; it may be combined with mayon- 
naise dressing. 

MAYONNAISE DRESSING. 
2 eggs, yolks, Lemon juice or vinegar, 

Olive oil, Salt and pepper, 

1 teaspoon made mustard. 
Chill the eggs, oil, and the plate to be used. Break the eggs, 
dash a little white pepper and half a saltspoon salt into the yolks 
and mix thoroughly, adding the mustard ; add the oil drop by drop, 
stirring slowty and in the same direction. If it begins to crack 
drop in vinegar, still stirring ; if it curdles use oil and keep it 
always in the form of cream. This recipe makes one large cup of 
dressing. Lemon juice may be used in making a white dressing, 
and if the oil is disliked, take melted sweet butter, but it is not 
then mayonnaise. 

MUSTARD DRESSING. 

1 egg, yolk, y z teaspoon boiling water, 
Yz cup oil, 1 teaspoon mustard, 

Vinegar, Salt and pepper. 

Rub smooth the mustard and water with salt and pepper as in 
French dressing and stir slowly into the yolk of the egg. Add 
the oil drop by drop, stirring steadity and in one direction, also the 
vinegar and avoid either cracking or curdling. Both patience and 
management are required to make a nice mustard or mayonnaise 
dressing. This dressing will keep 2 weeks on ice. If the oil sep- 
arates any time it can be rubbed smooth with a few drops of 
vinegar. 

ASPARAGUS SALAD. 

Cut tender asparagus into inch pieces and thi*ow them into cold 
water. Drain, and cook in boiling water salted in the proportion of 
1 teaspoon to 1 quart of water. Drain and let stand till cold. 
Add the dressing, mix well, and serve after standing 1 hour. 

ARTICHOKE SALAD. 

Wash thoroughly, pare, and quarter some very young artichokes. 
Serve them with salt, pepper and vinegar, and oil if liked, or cook 
them in their skins in salted boiling water until tender. Drain 



SALADS. 451 

and when cold, peel and quarter. Serve cold with French dress- 
ing. A few drops of tarragon vinegar improves the dressing. 

CAULIFLOWER SALAD. 

Take nicely boiled cauliflower, separate the branches, and mix 
them with any dressing. A little tarragon vinegar and tineh - 
chopped parsley may be added if French dressing is used. 

CELERY SALAD. 

Cut bleached celery in inch lengths after standing 5 minutes in 
very cold water. Mix with French or mayonnaise dressing and 
serve within 10 minutes. Or, the celery may be cooked and served 
with a dressing like cauliflower salad. Or, the long stalks may be 
eaten with salt. 

CHICKEN SALAD. 
3 chickens, 1 teaspoon black pepper, 

3 eggs, 4 hard-boiled eggs, 

1 pint vinegar, 2 tablespoons mustard, 

4 tablespoons butter, 2 tablespoons sugar, 
Celery. 1 teaspoon salt. 

Cook the chickens in salted water until tender ; when cold cut 
in small pieces, and add twice the quantity of celery cut in dice, 
and the hard-boiled eggs sliced; mix well together. Make the 
dressing in a double-boiler. ' Beat the eggs thoroughly with the 
mustard, pepper, sugar and salt, and pour slowly into the vinegar 
heating in the boiler ; stir till it thickens. When cold pour over 
the salad, or just before serving. A little lemon juice may be add- 
ed to whiten the dressing ; garnish with white celery tips. 

CHICKEN OR TURKEY SALAD. 

1 pint meat, Salad dressing, 

2 hard-boiled eggs, 1 pint celery. 

Cut the meat in dice, set in the ice box 2 hours. Mix with the 
celery and eggs, cut in pieces, arrange as it is to be served and 
pour over it a liberal quantity of mayonnaise or other dressing. 
Garnish with celery tips and olives. Lettuce ma} T be used for cel- 
ery, and celery salt or seed added to the dressing. Or, mix the 
dressing with the meat and celery and serve after standing a little 
while in the ice box. Many omit the eggs, add a little French 
dressing to the meat before setting on the ice, and a mayonnaise 



452 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

or other dressing after the celery is mixed with the chicken and 
just before serving. 

CUCUMBER SALAD. 

Select fresh young cucumbers and chill them by keeping a few 
hours in an ice-box, cover them a short time with ice and salt. 
Peel, slice very thin, and add salt, pepper, vinegar, and oil if 
liked, just before serving, or prepare the salad with equal quanti- 
ties of sliced cucumbers and white onions, and serve with any 
French dressing. It is advisable to put a lump of ice in the cen- 
ter of the salad bowl. 

ENDIVE SALAD. 

This should be well blanched and crisp. Cut off the root and 
the dark green leaves ; break the others apart, wash, drain and 
serve with maj-onnaise dressing. A few chives may be served 
with it. 

PISH SALAD. 

Take remnants of boiled fish, or a can of salmon freshlj" boiled. 
Remove the skin, fat and bones, cut in small pieces, sprinkle with 
pepper and salt, add capers or whole allspice, and enough vinegar 
to stand on the top. Cover, let stand a few hours, serve on lettuce 
leaves with or without a dressing. Garnish as usual. Or, cut 
salmon, white fish or trout in small pieces, mix with an equal quan- 
tity of lettuce or cabbage, adding a few slices of hard-boiled eggs. 
Serve with any good dressing, and garnish with the heart leaves of 
lettuce. 

HAM SALAD. 

Cold boiled ham, 1 tablespoon made mustard 

2 heads lettuce, 1 tablespoon butter, 

3 eggs, yolks, % tablespoon salt, 
}4 pint sour cream, % tablespoon sugar, 
y 2 pint vinegar, 1 teaspoon pepper. 

Mix the cream, vinegar, pepper, salt, sugar and mustard, cook 
over hot water, thicken with the well-beaten yolks of eggs, and set 
in the ice box or a cold place. Cut the ham into small bits, shred 
the lettuce, and put both into a salad bowl. Pour the dressing over 
the mixture. Stir well and serve. Or, mix any strong dressing 
with the ham and lettuce and serve on lettuce leaves. 



SALADS. 



453 



HERRING SALAD. 

3 Holland herrings, 3 hard-boiled eggs, 
8 medium potatoes, 2 small beets, 

2 onions, Roasted veal, 

4 sour apples, A pinch of salt. 

Soak the herrings over night and eut in small pieces ; boil the 
potatoes and beets, and when cold, chop line; slice the onions and 
veal, cut the apples and eggs fine and mix well. Serve with French 
or mustard dressing. 

LETTUCE SALAD. 

Select tender, fresh lettuce, and crisp by dipping it into cold 
water several times, or let it lie in the water 10 minutes before 
breaking off the leaves from the root. Pick it over carefully' and 
hi}- in a clean dry towel to absorb all the moisture. Handle as lit- 
tle and as delicately as possible and garnish with hard-boiled eggs 
cut in quarters. Serve with salt, or French or mayonnaise dress- 
ing, and accompany with radishes. A nice salad is made of equal 
quantities of cress, pepper grass and sorrel. The eggs may be 
omitted and the salad ornamented with nasturtium blossoms. 

LOBSTER SALAD 1. 

1 pint lobster meat, 1 head lettuce, 

Salad dressing. 
Cut the meat in half-inch pieces ; the coral may be used with the 
meat, served as a garnish. Rub the lobster fat carefully into the 
dressing and mix with the meat. Lay crisp lettuce leaves on a 
plate and put 2 tablespoons of the mixture into each one. Or, 
make a bed of lettuce leaves, and arrange the lobster mixture on 
it, within a ring of the coral. Serve very cold. 

LOBSTER, SALAD - 2. 

1 can lobster, 1 teaspoon mustard, 

2 heads lettuce, 1 teaspoon salt, 

2 eggs, yolks, 1 saltspoon pepper, 

2 boiled eggs, yolks, 1 tablespoon butter, 

1 cup vinegar, Cayenne pepper. 

Empty the can, take off the oil, and cut the meat in coarse nieces, 

Shred the lettuce, or if celery is preferred cut it into bits, and mix 

with the lobster and a little of the dressing. Pour the rest of it 

over the salad. Garnish with sliced hard-boiled eggs and celery 



454 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

tops. Make the dressing after this fashion: Rub into the yolks of 
fresh eggs a paste made of the mustard and a little vinegar, the 
melted butter, salt, pepper, a dash of cayenne pepper, and the vin- 
egar. When this is smooth, mix to a cream with the powdered yolks 
of the hard-boiled eggs, and use. 

ONION SALAD. 

Slice young onions and radishes; sprinkle a handful of salt 
over them and let them wilt half an hour. "Wash off the salt, 
and squeeze out the water. Beat smooth some good sour cream, 
add sufficient vinegar to make it as sour as wished, pour it over 
the salad and sprinkle with pepper. 

POTATO SALAD. 

2 onions, 6 boiled potatoes, 

3 hard-boiled eggs, Salad dressing. 

Pare the potatoes when cold, and slice them. Slice the onions 
in small thin pieces or mince fine. Slice the eggs. Fill the salad 
bowl with alternate layers of potatoes and eggs, sprinkling each 
with salt, and adding a little of the onion before pouring on the 
dressing. Finish with a liberal amount of dressing: Prepare 2 
or 3 hours before using. The onions may be omitted or one may 
be minced fine and mixed with celery seed or salt and added to the 
dressing. Garnish with parsley. 

SALMON SALAD 1. 

1 pound salmon, Salad dressing, 

34 pound potatoes, 2 eggs. 

Fresh boiled or canned salmon may be used. Drain the oil 
from the canned salmon, remove the bone, skin, and fat, and flake 
the fish with a fork. Cut cold boiled potatoes into small thin 
pieces. Slice the hard-boiled eggs. Put a layer of fish into the 
salad bowl, then a layer of potatoes and eggs. Pour on a little 
dressing, and complete the work in this manner. Let the last 
layer be of fish and cover with a plentiful amount of dressing. 
Celery seed may be added to the dressing. Serve in a handsome 
bowl, or on separate leaves of lettuce, arranged tastefully on a 
platter. Serve very cold a short time after it is made. 

SALMON SALAD 2. 

Boil the whole or part of a salmon in salted water. Set away 



SALADS. 455 

to cool in a covered dish, leaving a little opening for the steam to 
escape. When cold, dish carefully on a bed of curled lettuce 
leaves, pour over it a large amount of dressing, garnish with 
slices of lemon, hard-boiled eggs and olives. 

SHRIMP SALAD. 
Fresh or canned shrimps, Head of lettuce, 

Salad dressing. 
Break the shrimps as little as possible, and mix with a strong 
salad dressing. Prepare the lettuce as for lobster salad, and ar- 
range the shrimp mixture in the same manner. Crab salad is 
made in the same way. 

SUMMER SALAD. 

Beets, string beans, green peas, new potatoes, onions and boiled 
corn cut from the cob make a good and economical salad. The 
variety used depends upon circumstances or the wish of the 
maker. Or, lettuce with a bit of green mustard or a little pepper 
grass, some water cresses, a cucumber, a few radishes, a little 
chervil and two or three hard-boiled eggs makes a nice summer 
salad. Use French dressing with the latter, and a mayonnaise 
with the former recipe. 

TOMATO SALAD 1. 

Tomatoes, Lettuce, 

Salad dressing. 
Take firm ripe tomatoes and pare, without scalding, with a sharp 
knife. The} r may be served whole or sliced. If served whole, 
select those of a small size, take out part of the core, and put 
them on a bed of lettuce leaves. Fill the hollow with the dress- 
ing and serve after leaving 10 minutes in the ice box. A pitcher 
of dressing should be placed on the table. Or, the tomatoes may 
be placed in a glass dish, and the dressing poured around the base. 
Or, one tomato may be served in a saucer on a lettuce leaf with a 
little dressing in the hollow of the fruit. Or, cut the tomatoes in 
half-inch slices and pour the dressing over them. 

TOMATO SALAD 2. 

Tomatoes may be sliced, set in a very cold place 30 minutes 
and served with French dressing, or pepper, salt and vinegar, or 
sugar. 



456 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

TOMATO AND CUCUMBER SALAD. 

6 fresh tomatoes, 1 head celery, 

1 onion, 2 cucumbers, 

2 hard-boiled eggs. 

Chill the cucumbers, cool the tomatoes, and slice, also the 
onion and eggs. The slices of the cucumbers and onion should 
be very thin. Break the celery in bits ; put these various ingred- 
ients by layers into a salad bowl and pour over them any good 
dressing. Let stand 10 minutes in a cold place before serving. 
The onion may be omitted. 

VEAL SALAD. 

Cut cold veal into small pieces ; add as much cut celery or 
shredded lettuce as veal, with two chopped hard-boiled eggs. 
Pour over all a good dressing, mix well, set to cool, and serve gar- 
nished with celery tips. Chopped cabbage may be used in place 
of celery, in whieh case add celery salt to the dressing. 

VEGETABLE SALAD. 

1 pint string beans, 1 carrot, 

1 head celery, 1 onion, 

3 young beets, 1 turnip. 

Cut the beans in inch lengths, and cook in salted boiling water. 
Boil the beets and carrot and cut in diee. Slice the onion in small 
pieces, and break the celery into bits. Sprinkle with salt, dust with 
cayenne pepper, pour on a mayonnaise or mustard dressing, mix 
well, and serve after standing 30 minutes in a very cold place. 

COLD SLAW. 

1 cup fresh sour cream, 3 tablespoons sugar, 

% cup vinegar, Salt and pepper. 

Chop or shave cabbage and add the salt and pepper ; mix the 
cream and sugar, beat in the vinegar quickly and pour it over the 
cabbage. 

OLD-FASHIONED COLD SLAW. 

It is much nicer to slice or shave the cabbage across the head than 
to chop it as is frequently done. Let it stand a few minutes in 
water, and drain. Mix with good salad dressing and serve cold. 



SALADS. 157 

SOUTHERN COLD SLAW. 
% cup vinegar, %. teaspoon mustard, 

}■< cup water, }.j teaspoon salt, 

X cup cream, 1 teaspoon sugar, 

1 tablespoon butter, 1 saltspoon pepper, 

2 eggs, yolks. 
Bent the eggs and condiments together and work in the butter 
while the vinegar and water are heating over the fire ; when boil- 
ing stir in the mixture, add the cabbage, previously sliced, washed 
and drained, and mix all well together. Before it begins to wilt, 
take it from the fire, pour into the salad bowl, and when partially 
eool stir in the eream. Serve cold. The salad is nice if the cream 
is omitted. 

CREAM SALAD. 

t quarts cabbage, I tablespoon mustard, 

1 pint vinegar, 1 tablespoon salt, 

1 pint sour cream, 1 tablespoon pepper, 

% cup sugar, 1 tablespoon butter, 

l eggs, 1 teaspoon Hour. 

.Shave the cabbage very fine ; boil the vinegar, sugar, and butter 
in a saucepan ; stir in the well-beaten eggs, cream, flour and condi- 
ments; cook thoroughly, pour over the cabbage and serve when 
cold or hot. The cream may be added just before mixing with the 
cabbage. 



SOUP. 

ALL varieties of soup come under the head of bouillon, broth, 
consomme or stock, and soup purees. The rules for soup 
making are very simple. First, never let the soup stop boiling 
until it is done ; second, never add water after the soup commences 
boiling. Continued boiling does not mean rapid boiling; avoid 
that, for it leaves the soup muddy, and too much evaporation takes 
place. Add fresh fuel carefully to prevent a rapid blaze or a 
deadened fire. 

Bouillon is served as a clear, strong soup at dinners, as a bever- 
age at lunches or for invalids. In the latter case it is much better 
not to clarify it except by passing it through a fine strainer. Broth 
is a thin soup, the liquor in which beef, chicken, mutton or veal is 
boiled, without any vegetables. Stock is the basis of all soups ; 
the utmost care should be used in the preparation of both stock 
and bouillon. 

Each must boil the time given in the recipe, and be strained into 
an earthen bowl. The next da}' take off all the fat, and pour the 
clear part into a saucepan and boil at least one hour. Pour it into 
small jars or pitchers so that if only a small quantity is wanted for 
use, the rest of the stock need not be disturbed. 

The stock must be a firm, clear jelly, and will keep nicely in the 
ice box for a few days. The sediment or thick part of the soup is 
very nutritious and is used in a puree or thickened soup. 

Fresh, uncooked beef and cracked bones, with veal or chicken, 
make the best stock. The bones, particularly the leg bones, con- 
tain the glutinous matter essential to a good soup. Veal aud fowls 
are used for white soups. Mutton is too strongly flavored to make 
nice stock, and veal alone has but little nutritive properties. Soups 
which make the principal part of a meal should be richer than 
those which precede a course of meats, etc. When remnants of 

458 



SOUP. 450 

cooked meats are used, chop line, crush the bones, add a hara-bone 
or bit of ham or salt pork, the ends of roasts, and the brown fat 
of the roast ; add vegetables ; when done, strain, set away over 
night, skim off the fat, and it is ready to use. Soup made from 
cooked meats should be used immediate^ since it will not keep for 
stock. Soup must always be emptied from the kettle into an earthen 
dish, and it must not be covered or it will sour quickly. In very 
hot weather it is best to reheat stock daity if a large quantity is 
made. 

The meat from which stock is made is ordinarily useless, but 
meat from a quick soup may be used in hashes, croquettes, or sea- 
soned and pressed, after mincing. 

A puree is made by boiling vegetables slowly in broth or water, 
sifting them when tender, and diluting to the consistency of thick 
cream with stock, milk or water. Purees must be well seasoned, 
and are improved by the addition of eggs, cream and butter. They 
should be used within twelve hours after they are made. 

TO CLEAR SOUP. 

In fort3'-nine cases out of fifty it will not be necessary to clarify 
soup if it is properly made. When it is desired, either raw beef 
or white of egg may be used ; but egg impoverishes the soup while 
beef enriches it. Add to every quart of cold stock half a pound 
of raw lean beef, chopped fine ; also add a scraped carrot, a small 
turnip and a leek cut in dice, to the whole amount of soup. Set 
over the fire, keep- stirring and when it boils let it simmer gently 
half an hour. Strain through bags of fine, thin cloth and flannel. 
To clarify with eggs : stir into three quarts of cold soup the whites 
and crushed shells of two eggs. Place over the fire and boil ten 
minutes. Take off the fire, and after standing ten minutes, strain 
the soup through a flannel bag. Clarified soup will become cloudy 
if allowed to stand long before using. 

CEREALS AND VEGETABLES. 

Cereals. — Pearl and Scotch barley, homin}' and rice are used in 
white soup. Though differently classified, arrowroot, farina, mac- 
aroni, sago, tapioca, and vermicelli are desirable for the same pur- 
pose. 

Vegetables. — In most cases it is better to cook the vegetables 



160 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

with the stock, to secure their strength, richness and flavor ; and 
the pulpy mass is rejected by straining. The principal vegetables 
in use are, asparagus, beans, carrots, green corn, garlic, onions, 
okra, parsnips, peas, potatoes, tomatoes, and turnips. Cabbage is 
occasionally used, but in a sufficient quantity to make the princi- 
pal part of the soup. Green or dried pea, and bean soup should 
always be strained before serving. A thick soup of this character 
is called a puree. Asparagus, celery, and often tomato is served 
in the soup. 

COLORS, SPICES AND SEASONINGS. 

Colors. — The best color for soups is obtained from good materi- 
als and long cooking. Caramel, or burnt sugar, gives a rich brown 
color, grated carrot an amber hue, the juice of tomatoes a red shade, 
and pounded spinach a fine green tint. Skim the soup before add- 
ing the carrot. Bruise the spinach in a mortar, tie in a cloth and 
squeeze out the juice; add to the soup five minutes before taking 
from the fire. Mock-turtle soup should have this color, and it is 
sometimes used in veal and lamb soups. Okra will give a green 
shade, also parsley or celery leaves, if cooked in soup. 

Spices. — For brown soup use dark spices, like cloves and all- 
spice; for white soup, mace, aromatic seeds, and curry powder. 
The simplest and absolutely essential spices are pepper and salt, 
but too much of each will spoil any soup. Mace is especially 
adapted to chicken and oyster soup. Spiced vinegar, from sweet 
pickles or chowchow, gives a nice flavor, and catsups and sauces 
are often a great improvement. 

Sedsonlng. — The best herbs are sage, thyme, sweet marjoram, 
tarragon, mint, sweet basil, parsley and bay-leaves. Gather and dry 
them as follows: parsley and tarragon in June and July, just before 
flowering ; mint in June and July ; thytne, marjoram and savor}', 
in July and August ; basil and sage, in August and September. 
All herbs should be gathered in the sunshine, and dried by art- 
ificial heat; their flavor is best preserved by keeping them in air- 
tight tin cans, or in tightly-corked glass bottles. An agreeable fla- 
vor is given to soup by sticking cloves into a piece of meat or an 
onion ; sliced onions fried in butter, or in butter and flour, and 



SOUP. 401 

rubbed through a sieve improves the color and flavor of many soups. 
The red pepperpod cooked in the soup is preferable to cayenne 
added just before serving. Lemon and orange juice and the peel 
often impart a very fine flavor. Thickened soups require twice the 
seasoning needed for thin soups or broth. 

STOCK FOR SOUP. 
6 pounds shin of beef, 3 large onions, 

Knuckle of veal, or 2 carrots, 

1 old fowl, 1 head celery, 

8 quarts cold soft water, 6 cloves. 

Salt and pepper, Parsley. 

1 cup tomatoes. Blade uf mace. 

Crack the bones well and cut the meat in pieces 3 or 4 inches 
square ; put them into a stock-pot with the salt, pepper, and water, 
and cook slowl} - 1 hour. Apply more heat and at the end of 2 
hours add the vegetables, with the cloves stuck into the onions. 
( '< >ok gently but steadily 8 hours longer. Take it off, strain, and 
set away to cool. The next day remove the fat, take, off the clear 
jelly, and boil it 1 hour. Pour it into quart jars or pitchers, and 
keep it in a very cold place. This jelly may be used in various 
ways, and diluted with hot water, if desired less strong. Vegeta- 
bles must be cooked in boiling salted water before adding to the 
hot stock. Season, cook together a few moments and serve. 

White stock is used for white soups and is made as just described, 
omitting the beef and using both veal and chicken. 

To make stock of a golden color, add to the beef and veal 1 
pound ham and boil slowly 5 hours. Yry the onions in a little but- 
ter, and add with the other vegetables to the soup ; omit the mace 
and tomatoes and add 1 small parsnip. Boil slowly 2 hours longer. 
Strain and let stand over night. Remove the fat, take out the clear 
jelly and mix with the broken shells and unbeaten whites of 2 eggs. 
Boil 10 minutes and strain through a jolly bag; do not squeeze it. 
If it is not clear and a golden brown color, strain again until clear. 
Take great care to have a bright clean kettle, and scald the sieve 
before it is used. 

Any part of a raw chicken, beef bones, or pieces of raw meat 
may be added when the stock is first put over the fire; but cooked 



462 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

meat or bones will make the soup muddy. After the jelly-like part 
of the meat is taken off use the sediment remaining for thick soups. 
It is the richest part of the soup. 

To make stock successf ully, follow the directions caref ully, and 
never let the soup stop boiling one moment, neither add water after 
it commences to boil. 

EGG BALLS. 
G hard-boiled eggs, yolks, 2 eggs, yolks, 

Salt and flour. 
Rub the yolks of the cooked eggs to a smooth paste ; beat the 
raw yolks with a little salt, and add gradually to the egg paste. 
Stir in just enough flour to roll into small balls and drop into boil- 
ing salted water, or broth, for 5 minutes. 

FORCEMEAT BALLS. 

Mince fine cold veal, chicken, ham or soup meat, and season 
with pepper, salt, a little lemon juice, and grated peel, or a little 
minced onion fried in butter. Mix with the beaten yolk of an egg, 
cracker or bread crumbs and roll in balls. Fry in butter 8 to 10 
minutes or poach 5 minutes in boiling water. Forcemeat, if made 
in small balls, may be served in the soup. Large balls are served 
as an entree. Parsley and thyme may be used for seasoning the 
stronger meats. 

soyer's forcemeat balls. 
iy 2 pounds veal, 1 teaspoon beef suet, 

1 pound fresh suet, % teaspoon pepper, 

6 ounces panada, 4 eggs, 

A little grated nutmeg. 
Buy the fillet and cut into long thin slices ; scrape with a knife 
until only the fibre remains; put the pulp into a mortar, pound 10 
minutes, and pass through a wire sieve ; use that which remains 
for soups. Skin, shred, and chop the suet fine. Pound it in the 
mortar, and add the panada, which is soft crustless bread soaked 
in milk and cooked nearly dry, and pound again. Season, mix, 
and add the eggs one by one, while the pounding is continued. 
When thoroughly mixed, take a little piece in a spoon and drop 
into boiling salted water. The forcemeat may be softened with 
cream, or made firmer with another egg. 



soup. 463 

FRIED BREAD CRUMBS. 

Cut the bread into thin slices ; let them stand all night in a cool 
oven. When veiy dry and crisp, but not colored, roll them, and 
fry quickl}- in boiling lard. When of a golden color, skim them 
ont on a sieve and set in an open oven to dry. Serve in small 
mounds around light-colored game. 

CROUTONS. 

Take off the crust from stale bread, and cut the loaf in half-inch 
squares. Melt nearly enough butter in a frying pan to cover the 
bread, and when it bubbles, drop in the bread ; fry golden-brown, 
shaking frequently to prevent burning. Skim out on brown paper 
and set in the mouth of the oven. Or, drop the bread into boiling 
lard, and when done skim out and dry. Or, cut half-inch slices of 
stale bread into fancy shapes, diamonds, stars, rings, etc. , and fry 
well in boiling lard or butter and brown in a quick oven. Or, put 
the shapes in a pan and brown without frying. These may be 
cut in cubes three-quarters of an inch thick by one and one-half 
inches long, or in three-quarter-inch squares. Small squares of 
toast are especially nice with chicken broth. Croutons are served 
with soups or as garnishes. 

EGG DUMPLINGS. 

1 cup milk, Flour, 

2 eggs, Salt. 

Beat tne eggs thoroughly with a little salt, add the milk, and 
sufficient flour to make a smooth firm batter. Drop from a spoon 
into boiling soup. 

NOODLES. 

Beat an egg with a little salt, and work in flour to make a stiff 
paste. Roll out thin and leave it on the board an hour. Roll up 
closely like a sheet of music, and cut from the end into strips like 
shavings. When finished mix the strips lightl}- together, dust with 
flour, and cook them in the soup just before serving. If not cooked 
quickly they will go to pieces. 

FRENCH SOUP POWDER. 
2 ounces sweet inajoram, 2 ounces lemon-thyme, 

2 ounces parsley, 2 ounces lemon peel, 

2 ounces savory, 1 ounce sweet basil. 



464 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

Buy fresh herbs, dry carefully, pound, sift and bottle. Add to 
the soup a little at a time till the taste is suited. The cost for a 
large quantity will be small, and a delicate flavoring will be at hand 
the year around. 

BOUILLON. 
4 quarts cold water, 1 cup tomatoes, 

4 quarts beef, 4 cloves, 

1 teaspoon salt, 8 allspice, 

Bit of red pepperpod, 1 bay leaf. 

The beef should be as fresh as possible and without bone or fat. 
Put all of the ingredients into the kettle, cover, bring to a boil, 
and simmer steadily 3 hours; add a minced onion and carrot with 
a bunch each of thyme, parsley, and celery, chopped. Cook 2 
hours, leaving the cover partially off during the last hour that the 
soup may evaporate. If it pleases the taste take off and strain 
through a hair sieve. There should be 1^ to 2 quarts of broth. 
Let stand over night, and take off all the fat in the morning. Pour 
off the jelly so as not to disturb the sediment. Add whatever sea- 
soning is desired before serving. 

CHICKEN BROTH. 

An old fowl makes better broth than a young one. Cut it into 
small pieces and crack the bones well. To each pound of the chicken 
allow a quart of cold water and cook slowly till tender. Add 1 ta- 
blespoon salt; it will help extract the juices. Take from the fire 
and strain. The next day skim off all the fat, heat the broth and 
add 1 tablespoon rice to each quart, or serve with bits of toast and 

celery. 

MUTTON BROTH. 
4 quarts cold water, 3 tablespoons rice, 

3 pounds mutton, Salt. 

Put the meat in the salted water and let it simmer for 4 or 5 
hours. Strain, and when cold skim off the fat. Bring to a boil, 
add the rice, cook 30 minutes and serve. 

SCOTCH BROTH. 

3 pounds neck of mutton, 4 slices carrot, 

4 pints cold water, 2 slices turnip, 
Yz cup barley, 1 onion. % 

Cut out the bones and simmer in 1 pint of water; cut the meat in 



SOUP. 465 

small pieces taking out gristle and sinew, and put into a kettle with 
the cold water. Cook gently 2 hours, then add the strained liquor 
from the bones, the onion sliced, the turnip and carrot cut in dice, 
with the barley, and salt to taste. Cook till the vegetables are ten- 
der. Add a little celery salt, and pepper, and stir in 1 teaspoon 
flour mixed with a little butter, and some chopped parsley. Serve 
as soon as it boils. 

ASPARAGUS SOUP. 

30 stalks asparagus, 1 teaspoon butter, 

3 pints veal stock, or milk, 1 teaspoon flour, 

3 tablespoons cream, Salt and pepper. 

Cut the tips from the asparagus half an inch long, and cook the 
rest in boiling water. Rub through a coarse sieve, and salt ; heat 
the stock, and when boiling add the butter and flour rubbed to- 
gether, with the asparagus pulp and boil slowly 15 minutes. Stir 
in the cream and pour into the tureen over the asparagus tips which 
have been cooked in boiling water until tender, and then drained. 
The soup may be colored with spinach juice. 

bean soup — 1. 
2 quarts cold water, 1 quart rich stock, 

1 quart navy beans, Salt and pepper. 

Soak the beans over night. In the morning drain, add the cold 
water and boil till tender. Sift and return to the fire. Add stock, 
or water in which beef bones have been boiled, and season, adding 
any sweet herbs. Boil 25 minutes and serve. Or, the beans may 
be boiled with a small piece of salt pork, 3 onions, and 6 cloves. 
Sift, return to the fire, season and serve very hot. Or, a pint of 
strained tomatoes, stewed and prepared for the table, may be added 
to the soup. Serve when hot. 

bean soup — 2. 
1 pint beans, 1 cup cream. 

Butter, size of egg, Salt and pepper. 

Soak the beans over night; parboil them in the morning, drain, 
add fresh water, season with salt, pepper, and butter, and cook till 
tender. Take out half the beans, put the rest through a sieve, re- 
turn to the fire and add the cream or milk. Let boil up and serve. 
The soup may be thickened with crackers. 



466 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

BLACK BEAN SOUP. 

1 pint black beans, % pound lean pork, 

3 quarts water, Salt and pepper, 

2 hard-boiled eggs, , Cloves, 

1 teaspoon cornstarch, Lemon juice. 

Beef bones may be used in place of pork, or both may be omitted, 
and a quart of stock with a lump of butter substituted for a quart 
water. Soak the beans over night and cook in the water with the 
pork or bones ; boil slowly until tender. Thicken with the corn- 
starch, sift, season, and set over the fire. Have ready half a lemon, 
sliced very thin, and the white of eggs cut in dice in the bottom of 
the tureen. Rub the yolks of the eggs with a little of the soup, 
and add to the whole ; stir and pour into the tureen. Onion may 
be added to the beans while cooking. Red beans may be used in 
this way. The soup may be served with forcemeat balls. 

BEEF SOUP. 

1 shin bone, 5 quarts soft water, 

1 carrot, 1 tomato, 

1 turnip, 1 head celery, 

1 onion, Parsley, 

2 potatoes, Salt and pepper. 

Crack the bone well, and put into the cold water. Cook slowly 
2 hours and add the salt and pepper. Boil slowly 1 hour, add the 
carrot, turnip and celery, cut in dice, and 20 minutes later the onion 
and potatoes, sliced. In 20 minutes more the tomato, cut in small 
pieces may be added, and 2 tablespoons flour mixed smooth with 
cold water, and the parsley, shredded. The meat and bones should 
first be taken from the soup, and part of the meat cut in dice and 
returned to the soup. When the soup has cooked 10 minutes 
longer, take from the fire and serve. 

BEEF AND OKRA SOUP. 

1 pound round beef, 2 tablespoons butter, 

4 quarts water, 1 sliced onion, 

1 pint chopped okra, Salt and pepper. 

Cut the beef into bits, season and fry with the onion and butter 
till very brown. Add the cold water and simmer 1 hour, then the 
kra and simmer 3 hours. Serve. 



SOUP. 467 

MOCK BISQUE SOUP. 
1 quart new milk, % chopped onion, 

1 quart tomatoes, 1 teaspoon salt, 

2 tablespoons butter, %. teaspoon pepper, 
1 tablespoon cornstarch, 1 teaspoon soda. 

Cook the onion and tomatoes 10 minutes, and strain. Scald the 
milk. Cook the cornstarch with the butter till smooth and frothy, 
and gradually add the milk. Put in a double boiler. Stir the salt 
and pepper into the tomatoes, also the soda ; when the frothing 
ceases add the tomatoes to the thickened milk, strain, and serve 
hot with croutons or crisped crackers. Or, cook a cup of vermi- 
celli in salted boiling water 15 minutes; drain and serve in the 
soup and omit the croutons. The onion'may be omitted. 

CABBAGE SOUP. 

1 Spanish silver-skin onion, 2 quarts stock. 

1 white cabbage, Bunch of herbs, 

Lemon juice, Salt and pepper. 

Shred the onion and cabbage, and brown in butter ; avoid burn- 
ing, drain and add to the boiling stock. Thicken with 1 tablespoon 
flour and cold water and season. If the herbs are dry, powder 
them; if fresh, chop them. When the vegetables are tender, add 
the lemon juice and pour the soup over forcemeat balls. 

calf's head soup. 
1 calf's head, 2 tablespoons butter, 

Knuckle veal, 4 tablespoons flour, 

4 slices onion, 6 cloves, 

Pepper and salt, Dash of mace, 

4 quarts water. 
Prepare the head as directed on page 417. Set the brains aside. 
Put the water over the fire, with the head, knuckle and onions, 
into which stick the cloves, and when the knuckle is cooked take it 
from the pot. It can be used in an}- form desired. Continue cook- 
ing until the meat on the head is tender. Take it out and slip 
from the bones. Skin the tongue, and cut with the meat into dice. 
Strain the soup, return to the fire, add the meat, salt, pepper, mace 
and flour browned in the butter. Stir, boil till thickened and set 
away to cool. The next day make balls of the brains, soaked and 
parboiled, and a little chopped onion and parsley, mixed with the 



468 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

yolk of an egg and a little flour. Roll in cracker dust, fry brown 
in butter, and put them in the tureen. Skim the soup, bring to a 
boil and pour over the balls. Cut lemons in small pieces, and 
serve with the soup. 

CARROT SOUP. 

A kmickle of veal, 2 tablespoons rice, 

3 quarts cold water, 2 stalks celery, 

1 quart sliced carrots Butter, 

1 pint milk, Salt and cayenne. 

Put the veal, carrots, and chopped celery into the water and cook 
2 hours. Take out the veal, and put the vegetables through a 
sieve. Return to the fire, add the veal, cut in bits, and the rice; 
when the rice is done stir in the milk, butter, salt and pepper, and 
serve hot. Or, 2 onions, 2 potatoes and 1 turnip may be added to 
the carrots and mashed through the sieve. Omit the rice, and 
thicken with a little cornstarch and water. 

CELERY SOUP. 

1 quart white stock, 1 cup rice, 

2 stalks celery, Salt, 

3 pints milk, Cayenne. 

Boil the rice in the milk and sift it, grate the celery, add to the 
sifted rice and the heated stock. Boil till the celery is tender. 
Season with salt and cayenne. Cream may be substituted for milk. 

clam sour. 

% pound butter, 1 pint milk or cream, 

30 clams, Salt and pepper, 

2 tablespoons flour, Mace. 

Strain the clam liquor and boil, wash the clams thoroughly and 
scald 3 minutes in their own liquor. Take out of the shells and 
chop fine. Add to the liquor the butter and flour well mixed, the 
milk or cream and sufficient boiling water to make 2 quarts of soup; 
when boiling add the clams, a pinch of mace, pepper and a little 
salt. Boil 5 minutes and serve with croutons. Boiled crackers 
may be used instead of the flour, or 3 well-beaten eggs stirred in 
just as the soup is taken from the fire. 



soup. 469 

cock-a-leekie soup. 
2 quarts cold water, 3 well-washed leeks, 

1 veal shank, 1 turnip, pared, 

1 tablespoon butter, 1 carrot, scraped, 

1 tablespoon flour, 2 onions, who'e, 
Salt and pepper, Celery and parsley, 

A large fowl. 
Let the veal, with the vegetables, herbs, and water, simmer 4 
hours. Strain and add sufficient water to make 2 quarts. Remove 
the breast from the fowl and put it with 6 more leeks into the stock. 
Cook slowly until tender. Take out the chicken, cut the meat in 
dice, or make it into forcemeat balls and return to the soup. Rub 
the butter and flour together, add a little hot soup and stir into the 
soup 10 minutes before taking from the fire. Season with salt and 
pepper. In place of the veal soup 2 quarts white stock ma}" be 
used. 

CORN SOUP. 

2 quarts boiling water 1 tablespoon butter, 
6 ears corn, 1 teaspoon flour, 

1 pint milk, Salt and pepper. 

Cut the corn from the cobs, and boil the cobs in the water till 
reduced one-half. Strain the water, and cook the corn in it. Boil 
slowly 15 minutes, add the milk, butter rubbed with the flour, salt 
and pepper, and boil a few minutes longer. Or, boil a quart of 
sweet milk, and add a can of sweet corn ; strain through a colan- 
der, return it to the stove and season with pepper, salt and butter. 
Let it boil up once, add 2 tablespoons cracker crumbs and serve 
immediately. Chicken broth may be used in place of milk in either 
case. 

ECONOMICAL SOUP. 

Roast beef bones, Turkey bones and dressing, 

Beefsteak bi^s, 2 quarts water. 

Use any or all of the articles and cook slowly 2 hours. Take 
out the bones and strings, or strain the soup. If the turke} r bones 
are used a little chopped celery may be added with the beef bones 
and vegetables to suit the taste. The soup must be strained in 
that case and thickened with a little flour and water to which has 
been added salt and pepper. Serve with dry toast cut into fancy 
shapes. 



470 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

FARINA, RICE, SAGO, AND TAPIOCA SOUPS. 

Use chicken or veal broth. 

Farina. — Let 3 tablespoons farina run slowly through the fin- 
gers into 2 quarts of boiling broth, stirring constantly. Serve in 
30 minutes. 

Rice. — Wash half a cup of rice, dry, and put into 1 quart of 
cold broth. Let it heat gradually ; add 1 quart of boiling broth 
and cook till tender. 

Sago. — Soak 4 tablespoons sago over night, drain and cook 1 
hour in 2 quarts of boiling broth. 

Tapioca. — Soak 4 tablespoons tapioca some hours, drain and 
cook 45 minutes in 2 quarts boiling broth. 

A clear soup is improved by making a smooth paste of arrow- 
root, 2 tablespoons to 2 quarts broth, and stirring it into the boil- 
ing broth. It should boil 20 minutes, and be stirred like boiled 
custard. If the broth used in these soups is not sufficiently sea- 
soned, add what is lacking before serving. 

GUMBO FILLET. 

1 full-grown chicken, Black and red pepper, 

1 slice ham, Salt, 

1 sliced onion, Oysters, 

5 cloves and allspice, Fillet, 

2 quarts boiling water. 
Cut up the chicken, dredge with flour and put into the pot with 
sufficient lard to fry it, adding the onion ; use care to avoid burn- 
ing. When fried, add the water, the ham, trimmed from the coarse 
fat, salt, pepper, cloves and allspice ; stew till the soup is rich 
with bits of the chicken. Turn into the tureen and add 1 table- 
spoon fresh fillet and 2 if not fresh ; stir to avoid lumping and add 
the oysters, which must have had 5 minutes previous cooking. The. 
soup is best if 1 quart oyster liquor is added to the 2 quarts soup. 
Fillet is powdered sassafras leaves, dried and sifted. Make it at 
home. 

OKRA GUMBO SOUP. 
3 pounds lean beef, 6 fresh, or 1 can tomatoes, 

3 quarts water, 1 cup lima beans, 

1 quart okra, 1 onion. 

Cook the beef in the water 1 hour, stew the onion a few min- 



SOUP. 471 

utes in butter and add to the soup with the okra and tomatoes cut 
in half-inch pieces and the beans. Stew slowly over a slow fire 
from 2 to 3 hours. The soup will be very thick. It may be thinned 
with broth or tomato juice, and is nicer the day after it is made. 
Season with salt and pepper and serve hot. 

JULIENNE SOUP. 

Yz pound carrot, 4 ounces onion, 

}i pound turnip, 1 ounce celery, 

2 quarts stock, Salt and pepper. 

Cut the vegetables into long narrow strips and throw into cold 
water ; drain and brown lightly in butter ; take out of the butter, 
cover with a little stock and bring slowly to a boil. Add the full 
amount of stock, salt and pepper, and simmer steadily 2 hours. 
Serve without straining. Asparagus tips, lettuce, shredded green 
peas, and string beans, cut in half-inch lengths, may be boiled ten- 
der, drained and added to the soup. 

MACARONI SOUP. 

3 pounds veal shank, y 2 pound macaroni, 

3 quarts cold water, Salt and pepper. 

Cook the veal till it falls to pieces ; add salt and pepper. Break 
the macaroni into inch pieces, and cook in salted water in an open 
kettle till tender. Cook with as little water as possible ; add a lit- 
tle butter. Strain the soup, stir in the macaroni and serve. Grated 
cheese should be served with this soup. Or, 1 quart of boiling 
milk, thickened with butter and flour, may be used in place of veal 
broth. Flavor with a little curry powder and acid 3 tablespoons 
grated cheese. 

MOCK-TURTLE SOUP. 
1 calf's head, 2 hard-boiled eggs, 

4 calf's feet, 2 onions, 
4 quarts water, 1 carrot, 
% pound butter, 1 lemon, 
4 tablesoons flour, 12 cloves, 

. Salt and cayenne, 2 stalks celery. 

Wash and clean the head and feet according to directions given 

on page 417. Put them into the water, set over a moderate fire 

and skim more than once. Simmer slowly till the meat is tender. 

Slip the bones from the meat, skin the tongue, return the bones to 



472 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

the fire with the sliced vegetables, herbs, and cloves stuck in a 
piece of onion. Cook 2 hours. Strain and set away over night. 
In the morning take off the fat. Melt the butter in a saucepan, 
brown the flour, and add gradually the boiling soup. Cut the meat 
into dice and add to the soup. Let boil up and add salt, cayenne 
pepper, 2 teaspoons lemon juice, and 2 teaspoons sugar. A small 
quantity of catsup, mushroom or Worcestershire sauce may be used 
in place of lemon juice. Slice the eggs and lemon into the tureen 
and pour over them the soup. Serve with egg or forcemeat balls. 
The tongue and brains are used as a separate dish. Ordinarily 
half the meat is sufficient to cut up. The brains should be soaked 
in warm water an hour before cooking. 

MULLIGATAWNY SOUP. 
1 chicken or rabbit, 2 teaspoons curry powder, 

1 veal shin, broken, 1 tablespoon butter, 
5 quarts cold water, 1 tablespoon flour, 

2 onions, Parsley, 
1 carrot, 3 cloves, 

1 head celery, cut fine, Salt and pepper. 

Cut up the chicken or rabbit, put with the veal, 1 onion, half 
the carrot, cloves, and parsley, into the cold water and cook slowly 
until the chicken is nearly done. Remove the chicken and let the 
rest simmer till the veal is done. Fry the onion, the other half of 
the carrot, and the celery in the butter, and add the flour when 
brown. In 2 minutes add the curry and pieces of chicken nicely 
trimmed, with the veal broth and cook gently 1 hour. Add salt, 
pepper, and a little juice of lemon or mango pickle. Skim, strain, 
and serve with boiled rice. 

OKRA SOUP. 
1 peck young okra, l / 2 cup rice, 

Yl peck tomatoes,, 1 onion, 

1 beef soup bone, or Parsley, 

2 pounds ham, Salt and pepper. 
Put the meat in plenty of water, letting it boil before adding the 

okra. Quarter the pods and cut across the quarters in half-inch 
lengths. Throw away the lower parts. Wash the okra quickly and 
let it boil 2 hours with the meat. Pare the tomatoes, add them, 
and boil 1^- hours. Add the rice, the onion, and the parsley chopped 



soup. 473 

fine, with the salt and pepper, half an hour before serving. It is 
important to skim the okra occasionally while it boils alone. Add 
boiling water if needed. Cook dry rice to serve with the soup. 

ONION SOUP. 
1 quart milk, 3 tablespoons butter, 

1 cup cream, 2 tablespoons flour, 

6 onions, Salt and pepper. 

Cut the onions in slices and cook them in the butter till a light 
yellow. Cover and let them cook very slowly 30 minutes. Add 
the hot milk with the flour, mixed smooth, boil and rub through a 
sieve. Return to the fire, season with salt and pepper, add the 
cream, and serve. More milk and butter may be substituted for 
the cream. Serve with croutons. The yolks of eggs may be beaten 
well and stirred into the soup with the cream. 

OX-TAIL SOUP. 

1 slice salt pork, 4 quarts boiling water, 

2 ox-tails, 1 bunch soup herbs, 

2 small onions, 1 teaspoon celery seed, 

1 carrot, 2 tablespoons catsup, 

1 turnip, 3 whole cloves, 

Salt and pepper. 
Separate the tails at the joints ; slice the vegetables and chop 
the pork fine. Fry the pork, brown the onion in the fat and add 
the tails. Fry them 5 minutes, cutting each joint to the bone ; 
put all into the soup-kettle, pouring on the boiling water, and sim- 
mer slowly but constantly 4 hours, or until the tails are tender. 
Add the rest of the vegetables, and the cloves stuck into a piece 
of onion, with the salt and pepper. When they are tender add the 
catsup and strain through a fine sieve. Set on the stove, put back 
the tails and serve 1 joint in each plate: 

OYSTER SOUP. 

1 quart oysters, 1 quart milk, 

1 pint water, Salt and pepper, 

Butter. 

Empty the oysters into a colander, pour the water over them ; 

drain, and bring the liquor to a boil ; skim, and add the oysters, 

warmed by standing on the back of the stove, and the milk, heated 

in a double boiler, with the butter and pepper. Cayenne may be 



474 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

used in preference to white pepper. Let boil up once, add the salt 
and serve at once. If any object to milk, use 1 pint boiling water 
for the milk, and a large quantity of butter. A little rolled cracker 
may be added to the soup just before taking from the fire. 

DRIED-PEA SOUP. 
1 pound veal, or 3 quarts cold water, 

yi pound bacon, Salt and pepper, 

1 pint split peas. 
Soak the peas over night, and cook with the veal or bacon in the 
morning from 3 to 4 hours. Add salt and pepper, skim out the 
meat, put through a sieve, return the meat to the soup, and cook till 
quite thick. Serve with croutons. If veal is used add a large lump 
of butter. 

GREEN-PEA SOUP. 

4 pounds veal or lamb, }£ pound butter, 

5 quarts cold water, 1 teaspoon flour, 
1 quart green peas, Salt, 

1 quart new potatoes, Pepper. 

Wash the meat, put it into the soup-kettle with the water and 
cook gently 2 hours, adding the salt a little before the -meat is done. 
Take out the meat and keep hot ; add the peas and the potatoes to 
the broth and cook till done. Rub the butter and flour together 
and stir into the soup, with a little pepper. Serve the meat with a 
parsley sauce. Or, cut the meat in bits at the end of 2 hour's cook- 
ing ; add the peas and potatoes, finish as directed, and serve all 
from the tureen. Or, cook the peas in the water left from the 
meat, rub through a sieve, and add half a pint peas, and chopped 
lettuce. Cook till the peas are done, season with salt and pepper, 
and thicken with the butter and flour. Serve with bits of toasted 
bread. This soup should be as thick as cream. 

PORTABLE SOUP. 
10 pounds beef shin, 1 ounce whole black pepper, 

6 pounds knuckle, ]i ounce Jamaica pepper, 

2 fowls, )i ounce mace, 
4 gallons cold water, Salt to taste. 

Free the beef from fat or skin, break up the bones and cut all 
the meat in small pieces. Put all in a large pot with the water, 
cover very closely ; simmer 12 or 14 hours, and then strain off the 



soup. 475 

liquor. Next day take off the fat, clear the jelly from any sedi- 
ment adhering to it, and boil gently without covering, stirring often 
till it thickens to a strong glue. Pour into broad tin pans and put 
into a cool oven. When it will take the impression of a knife, 
score it in squares and hang the pans where it will dry. When 
dry, break off where scored and put in close boxes. Melt in hot 
water when wanted for use. 

POTATO SOUP. 
3 large potatoes, 1 cup cream, 

1 quart water, Salt and pepper, 

1 pint milk, Butter. 

Cut or chop fine the potatoes and boil till tender. Heat the milk 
and cream. Add the salt, pepper and butter to the potatoes and 
the milk. The cream may be omitted, and more milk and butter 
substituted. The soup will bear considerable pepper. Or, boil a 
small onion with the potatoes and a little rice. When tender rub 
through a colander, add rich milk, a lump of butter, and season 
with salt and pepper. 

POT-AU-FEU. 

1 large beef bone, or Parsley and celery leaves, 

3 pounds lean beef, 1 leek, 

4 quarts cold water, 1 carrot, 

1 large onion, 1 turnip, 

2 tomatoes, Salt and pepper. 

Buy freshly killed beef, and bring slowl}- to a boil with the herbs, 
salt, spices and water. Skim thoroughly, and simmer gently 2 
hours. Add the vegetables and cook 5 hours longer. It must not 
stop boiling, and water must not be added to the soup while it is 
cooking. Strain the soup through a fine sieve and let stand over 
night. In the morning remove the fat, and pour off carefully the 
top from the sediment, which is good for thick soup ; or the soup 
may be cleared according to directions. The French often use the 
soup the day it is made, and cook cabbage with the other vegeta- 
bles. The vegetables are served in a separate dish and the hot 
soup poured over dice or squares of browned bread which have 
been placed in the tureen. The Italians serve a teaspoon of grated 
cheese in the soup plate of each guest. This recipe is excellent for 
general family use. 



476 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK., 

SPRINGTIME SOUP. 
Large head lettuce, 1 tablespoon butter, 

Yz pint peas, Salt and pepper, 

Bunch parsley, 3 eggs, yolks, 

1 sliced onion, 2 quarts stock. 

Shred the lettuce and parsley, brown the onion in the butter, and 
put in a saucepan with the peas ; cover with water, add the salt 
and pepper and cook till tender. Bring the stock to a boil ; beat 
up the eggs with half a cup of the vegetable liquor and add with 
the hot stock to the other part just before taking from the fire. 

VEAL SOUP. 

A veal knuckle, 1 cup cream, 

3 quarts cold water, 3 eggs, yolks, 

% pound butter, Salt and pepper, 

yi cup rice, tapioca, or vermicelli. 

Put the veal into a soup-kettle with the water and let it simmer 

3 hours. Strain, add salt, pepper and the rice; boil slowty till 

tender. Rice will need 30, tapioca 40, and vermicelli 20 minutes 

cooking. Add the butter. Beat the eggs in the tureen with the 

cream, and pour the boiling soup slowly over them, stirring steadily. 

VEGETABLE SOUP 1. 

1 pint cooked tomatoes, Bunch sweet herbs, 

3 onions, Pepper and salt, 

3 carrots, 2 tablespoons butter, 

3 turnips, 1 tablespoon flour, 

1 small cabbage, 1 cup sweet cream, 

Head celery, 3 quarts boiling water. 

Chop all the vegetables very fine and brown them, except the 
cabbage, in a little butter ; put them into a kettle with the boiling 
water, herbs, salt and pepper, and in 30 minutes add the cabbage 
and tomatoes. Let simmer 2 hours and rub through a sieve. Rub 
the butter and flour together, add the cream and a little sugar, stir 
into the soup and boil 5 minutes. Serve with croutons or crisped 
crackers. 

VEGETABLE SOUP 2. 

6 potatoes, 2 tablespoons butter, 

4 onions, 1 tablespoon flour, 

2 carrots, 1 pint milk, 

2 turnips, 2 quarts stock, 

Celery, Salt and pepper. 



SOUP. 477 

Cut the vegetables into small pieces ; put them into the melted 
butter and stir briskly 10 minutes. Then add the flour, mixed 
smoothly, and the milk. Stir till it boils, and cook the vegetables 
till tender. Season to taste, put through a colander and mix with 
the boiling stock. Let simmer an hour and serve with croutons. 

VERMICELLI SOUP. 

Break half a pound of vermicelli into pieces and cook 15 min- 
utes in boiling salted water. Drain and add to 2 quarts of rich 
boiling broth. Cook until tender, and serve. Sufficient for eight 
people. 

WHITE SOUP. 

This may be made by recipe for veal soup, omitting the rice, and 
one of the egg yolks, or by using 2 quarts chicken broth with 2 
cups of cream, and yolks of 2 eggs. Beat the eggs and cream in 
the tureen and pour in slowly the boiling broth. Season and serve 
with croutons. Or, 3 tablespoons mashed potato may be rubbed 
to a paste with a little cold broth and stirred into the boiling broth. 
When well mixed pour over the cream in the tureen and add a few 
dice of veal or chicken. 



VEGETABLES. 

IF the home garden furnishes the supply of vegetables, gather 
them early in the morning with the dew on them, and keep 
them in a cold place till reacty to use. If vegetables must be 
bought, get them as fresh as possible. Use freshly boiled hot soft 
water for cooking them. Beans and peas should lie an hour in cold 
water before snapping or shelling. Almost all vegetables are im- 
proved by lying in cold water before cooking, though the flavor of 
strong onions is modified by lying in warm, salted water. Old po- 
tatoes should lie over night in cold water, and they are improved 
by paring before cooking. Use salt in the proportion of a heaping 
tablespoon to 1 gallon of water. Beans, beets, corn, peas, squashes, 
tomatoes and turnips are improved by adding a little sugar be- 
fore serving them. Drain vegetables in a colander as soon as 
cooked, and prepare immediately for the table. 

Always add a little soda to the water in which greens are cooked, 
to preserve their color. A small piece of red pepper, a piece of 
bread tied in a cloth, or a bit of charcoal dropped into the water in 
which strong vegetables are cooking will absorb much of the dis- 
agreeable odor. The bread should be burned when taken from the 
water. It is much better to boil the meat by itself, and pour off 
part of the water if it is desirable to cook vegetables in the liquor 
instead of putting them in with the meat. 

If watery potatoes must be cooked, add a small lump of lime to 
the water. For baking or boiling whole vegetables, carefully se- 
lect those of uniform size, and boil them steadily but not furiously. 

Old vegetables require nearly twice as much time for cooking as 
young ones. Many consider that potatoes are nicer boiled in two 
waters, but the second water must be boiling and added immedi- 
ately after the first is drained off. All sliced vegetables should be 
cut across and not with the grain. All vegetables should be thor- 
oughly cooked, and they require a longer time late than earl}- in 
the season. 

478 



VEGETABLES. 479 

In gathering asparagus, break the stalk, do not cut it off. Below 
the point at which it will break off it is woody fibre. 

Cook asparagus, lima beans, beets, corn, sliced cabbage, carrots, 
cauliflower, celeiy, okra, green peas, spinach and turnips, in boil- 
ing water ; add salt to the water in which string beans, cabbage, 
onions, potatoes, and squashes are boiled. Cover all vegetables 
while cooking, except string beans, green peas, spinach, and to- 
matoes. If Irish or sweet potatoes are frozen, bake or boil them 
without thawing. Cold boiled potatoes should not be pared until 
needed for use. 

ASPARAGUS. 

Scrape off the coarse skin, tie in bunches, making the tips even, 
and cut off the wood}- ends, leaving them of equal length. Wash, 
and lay them in boiling water, slightly salted, and cook slowly 20 
minutes, or till tender. Take out the asparagus carefully, la}- it 
on thin slices of buttered toast, and remove the strings. Serve 
with melted butter, or cream sauce. 

AMBUSHED ASPARAGUS. 

50 heads asparagus, 4 well-beaten eggs, 

25 stale rolls or biscuit, 1 pint milk, 

2 tablespoons butter, Salt and pepper. 

Cut off the tender tips of the asparagus, boil in salted water till 
tender, drain and chop fine. Take the biscuits, cut off the tops, 
scoop out the inside, and put them, with the tops, into the oven to 
dry. While drying, heat the milk, stir in the eggs, strain, and 
return to the fire. When it thickens, add the butter, salt, pepper, 
and asparagus. As it begins to boil, take from the fire, fill the 
biscuit with the mixture, fit on the tops caref ully, set in the oven 3 
minutes, arrange on a dish and serve. 

ASPARAGUS AND EGGS. 

Cut tender asparagus in half -inch lengths, and boil in salted 
water 10 minutes, or till tender. Beat the whites and yolks of 
6 eggs separately Stir into the 3-olks 1 tablespoon each cream and 
melted butter with pepper and salt. Drain the asparagus, mix with 
the 3-olks of eggs, turn into a buttered saucepan, stir in the whites, 
heat through and serve. Garnish with croutons. 



480 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. * 

STEWED ASPARAGUS. 

Cut tender asparagus in inch lengths, wash, drain and cook rap- 
idly in salted boiling water until tender. While it is cooking make 
a cream sauce as follows : melt 2 tablespoons butter in a saucepan 
over the fire. When it bubbles shake in 1 tablespoon flour ; mix 
well and stir in 1 cup boiling milk, with salt and pepper. Add the 
asparagus, well-drained, and a small piece of butter. Stir care- 
fully, and serve very hot on pieces of buttered toast. 

CREAM BAKED BEANS. 
1 pint beans, 1 tablespoon sugar, 

1 cup cream, Salt. 

Soak the beans over night. In the morning drain, cover with 
boiling water and cook till tender. Put them in a bean pot or stone 
jar, add the cream, salt and sugar, and bake in a moderate oven 
till thoroughly baked. Take off the cover before they are done, in 
order to brown them. 

GRANDMOTHER'S BAKED BEANS.. 
1 quart dry beans, 2 tablespoons N. O. molasses, 

1 pound bacon, 1 teaspoon soda. 

Salt and pepper. 
Wash the beans in hot water, drain, put in a kettle with the ba- 
con and cover with boiling water ; boil half an hour, add the soda, 
stir well, cook 5 minutes, and skim into a bean pot. Season with 
salt and pepper, add the molasses, score the rind of the bacon, cover 
it with the beans, add boiling water till it stands on the tup, and 
place in a moderate oven. Bake steadily 6 hours, adding hot water 
as they dry ; after that time, the cover may be left off and the beans 
baked as dry as liked. The secret of success lies in using hot water 
throughout ; cold water hardens and toughens beans. The bacon 
is much nicer than pork, giving a delicate smoky flavor. This 
recipe will make three quarts when done. 

FRENCH, STRING AND WAX BEANS. 

The beans should snap when bent. String carefully, break off 
the ends and cut in 2 or 3 pieces. Let them stand 15 minutes in 
cold water. Drain ■ throw them into boiling salted water ; cover 
and boil half an hour; uncover, and let them cook steadily la- 
bours if the beans are light ones, and an hour longer if the}' are 



VEGETABLES. 481 

the green variety. If the beans are nearly dry do not drain them , 
but add butter and sweet cream, and more salt if needed, before 
serving them. Or, cook a little piece of salt pork with the beans. 
When done, take out the pork, drain off the water, and serve with 
a little cream or cream sauce. Green shelled beans may be cooked 
in the same way ; they will be ready to serve in 30 or 45 minutes. 

DRY LIMA BEANS. 

Wash the beans in warm water, soak 3 hours and drain. Cover 
with boiling water, and cook steadily from 1^- to 2 hours, or till 
tender. Drain off the water, or if almost dry, without draining, 
add cream, butter rubbed with a little flour, salt and pepper. Take 
from the fire in 5 minutes and serve. 

SHELLED BEANS. 

Butter, cranberry, kidney, or lima beans may be used. Cover 
with cold water and soak half an hour. Throw the beans into boil- 
ing water ; add a very little salt and cook from half an hour to 2 
hours, according to variety and age. When tender, drain off the 
water, add cream, salt, pepper, and butter, and stew 10 or 15 min- 
utes longer. Select only young beans for this dish. 

BEETS. 

Choose the small smooth roots. Wash carefully, but do not 
break or cut them, else the color and sweetness will escape while 
cooking. Cover with plenty of boiling water and cook them from 
1 to 2 hours if the beets are young , if old they ma}' require 4 or 
5 hours. When tender, drop them into a pan of cold water and 
slip off the skin. Slice, unless very small, and serve with melted 
butter, or a hot sauce of vinegar, salt, and butter thickened with a 
little flour. Or, serve cold with salt and pepper, after slicing and 
letting them stand a few hours in vinegar. Or, bake them in a hot 
oven, turning them frequently with a knife to avoid breaking the 
skin. When done remove the skin, slice and serve with butter or 
a vinegar dressing. 

BAKED CABBAGE. 
1 tablespoon butter, 2 well-beaten eggs, 

4 tablespoons cream, Pepper and salt. 

Chop finely a cold, boiled white cabbage that has beSh perfectly 
drained. Mix with the above ingredients, put into a buttered pud- 



482 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

ding dish, and bake in a moderate oven until a light brown. Serve 
hot. 

BOILED CABBAGE. 

Halve or quarter the cabbage and lay in cold salted water to draw 
out the little insects hiding in the leaves. Drain well, and put into 
a large quantity of boiling salted water ; cover, and after cooking 
10 minutes, change the water, but do not cover the second time. 
A summer cabbage will cook in 30 or 40 minutes, but it will re- 
quire from 1 to 1^ hours for the winter variety. Drain very dry 
in a colander. Dress with melted butter, pepper and salt, or a 
cream sauce. Or, halve the cabbage, remove the hard center, let 
stand 2 hours in cold water, tie in a cabbage net or a thin piece of 
muslin, and cook in boiling salted water. Or, shave finely, put in 
a net and cook as usual. 

CREAMED CABBAGE. 

Slice as for cold slaw, and cook 30 minutes in boiling salted 
water. Drain, and put into a saucepan with 1 cup rich cream, 1 
tablespoon butter, 1 teaspoon sugar, a little salt and pepper. Let 
simmer 3 minutes and serve. Or, put the cabbage in salted boil- 
ing water, cover closely, and cook 1 5 minutes. Pour off the water, 
add rich hot milk, and when tender, add butter and 1 teaspoon 
flour mixed with milk ; season, and when it boils, serve. 

PRIED CABBAGE. 

Melt 1 or 2 tablespoons butter in a hot spider. When it bubbles 
throw in sliced boiled cabbage, and fry a light brown. If a tart 
taste is desired, add 2 tablespoons vinegar before taking from the 
fire. 

HEIDELBERG CABBAGE. 

2 small red cabbages, 3 tablespoons vinegar, 

1 onion, 2 tablespoons butter, 

4 cloves, 1 teaspoon salt. 

The cabbages must be hard and firm. Halve, lay the flat side 
down, and cut across in thin slices. Put the butter, or drippings 
into a saucepan, and when hot add the vinegar and salt with the 
cabbage ; stick the cloves into the onion, and bury it in the cab- 
bage. Bt>il 2^- hours. If it becomes dry, and in danger of 
scorching, add a very little water. 



VEGETABLES. 483 

STUFFED CABBAGE. 

Cut out the heart of a large fresh cabbage. Fill the vacancy 
with forcemeat balls of chicken or veal. Tie the cabbage firmly 
together, put into cheese-cloth and boil 2 hours in a covered kettle. 

CARROTS. 

Scrape them well, and let them lie in cold water half an hour. 
Cook them in boiling water until tender. Winter carrots, if whole, 
require from 1£ to 3 hours ; summer carrots, from 30 to 45 min- 
utes. Or, slice the carrots very thin and boil until tender. 

CREAMED CARROTS. 

1 cup cream, 1 tablespoon butter, 

Salt and pepper, 1 tablespoon flour. 

Make a cream sauce according to directions, and stir in the 
boiled carrots cut in dice. Stew gently 15 minutes, add a little 
chopped parsley and serve. 

FRIED CARROTS. 

Melt some butter in a hot spider. Cut cold boiled carrots into 
long thin strips. When the butter bubbles lay in the carrots, 
sprinkle with salt, pepper and sugar, and fry till the edges are 
brown and crisp. A little finely chopped parsley is an improve- 
ment. 

LYONNAISE CARROTS. 

Chop an onion very fine and fry in a tablespoon of butter and 
nice drippings. Add the boiled carrots, cut in small dice, with 
pepper and salt. Stir, fry them golden-brown, add a little finely 
chopped parsley, mix well and serve. 

CAULIFLOWER. 

Trim off the outside leaves, cut an X in the stalk, and put head 
downward into salt, or vinegar, and water for 30 minutes, that all 
insects may be drawn out. Drain well, tie loosely in a piece of 
cheese-cloth put into boiling salted water whitened with milk, and 
boil gently until tender, which will depend upon the size, one of 
medium size requiring 40 or 45 minutes. Lift it carefully by the 
cloth, drain thoroughly, put into a vegetable dish, pour over it a 
nice cream sauce, cover a few minutes, and serve. 



484 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

SCALLOPED CAULIFLOWER. 
1 cup cream, 1 tablespoon butter, 

Salt and pepper, 1 tablespoon flour.- 

Boil a cauliflower as directed. Make a cream sauce. Put the 
cauliflower into a buttered pudding dish, pour over the sauce tak- 
ing care that it penetrates the whole ; cover with bread crumbs, 
dot with butter and brown in a moderate oven. A little grated 
cheese and cayenne may be added to the sauce before it is used. 
Or, boil common heads, break off the flowers and lay them in the 
pudding dish with chopped eggs. Pour over them a sauce like 
the above, using milk in place of cream, with twice the quantity 
of butter. Cover with bread crumbs and bits of butter, and bake 
thoroughly. 

CAULIFLOWER AND TOMATO. 

Place a nicely boiled cauliflower on a round dish, and pour a rich 
tomato sauce around its base. This may be served as a separate 
course. 

CELERY FRITTERS. 

Cut celery into 2-inch lengths, cook until tender in salted water, 
dip in a batter made according to directions for fritters on page 
71, and fry in boiling lard. 

STEWED CELERY. 

Wash the celery carefully; cut in 2-inch lengths, boil in salted 
water 25 minutes, and drain. Stir gradually into 1 tablespoon 
hot butter, 1 tablespoon flour, and add 1^ cups of the celery 
water. When it boils stir in the celery. Add a little cream and 
butter with salt, and cook 25 minutes, or until tender, over hot 
water. This may be served alone or on buttered toast. Serve hot. 

CORN. 

Remove the silk and the husk except the leaves close to the 
corn, or strip off every particle of silk and husk. Put the corn 
into a large pot of boiling water or set in a steamer over the 
water. Cover tightly and boil rapidly 20 or 30 minutes. Take 
from the fire and let the corn stand in the pot 10 minutes. 
Drain, pull off the leaves, if any remain, and serve in a hot 
folded napkin. Never salt the water as it hardens and colors the 
corn. 



VEGETABLES. 485 

CORN CAKES. 
1 cup milk, h cup flour, 

1 cup corn, £ teaspoon salt, 

2 teaspoons butter, 
Cold boiled corn may be used. Cut from the cob, and mix in 
the propoi'tions given. Fry in hot butter or drippings like griddle 
cakes. Serve with butter and sugar, or syrup. 

CORN CHOWDER. 

Cut half a pound of salt pork in small pieces, and boil in 2 
quarts of water with 4 onions sliced very thin. Boil 20 minutes, 
and add 6 medium-sized cooked potatoes cut in thick slices, 1 
quart of milk scalding hot, and 1 quart of corn. Let all come 
to a boil ; cover the bottom of a soup tureen with buttered crackers, 
pour the soup over them, and serve while hot. 

CORN FRITTERS AND CORN OYSTERS. 

See page 73. 

CORN FRITTERS OR MOCK OYSTERS. 

6 ears corn, grated, 2 eggs, well beaten, 

1 tablespoon flour, Salt and pepper. 

Mix the ingredients well together, drop from the spoon into hot 
butter or lard and fry brown like oysters. 

.ROASTED GREEN CORN. 

Turn back the husks, remove all the silk, cover with the husks, 
and roast in the hot ashes of a wood fire; eat with butter, pepper 
and salt. Roast in the forest, on the beach, or out of doors any- 
where. 

HULLED CORN. 

This dish must be prepared the daj r before it is wanted for use. 
Soak 2 quarts of corn over night. Place it over the fire in a ket- 
tle which will allow it plenty of room to swell. Boil in water, to 
which enough lye has been added to -give it a slippery feeling, 
until the hulls will come off. Wash thoroughl}- in clear water, 
rubbing with the hands, if necessaiy, to remove any remaining 
hulls. Return the corn to the kettle and boil until tender, stir- 
ring often to prevent burning ; salt to taste. This quantity will 
be sufficient for several meals for an ordinary family and will keep 



486 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

nicely in a cool place. Serve with milk, or cream, or cream and 
sugar. It is also nice made into corn fritters. 

CORN PUDDING. 
12 ears corn, Salt and pepper, 

1 pint milk, 3 eggs, 

2 tablespoons butter. 
Score and scrape the corn. Beat the eggs, whites and yolks sep- 
arately and add the butter, salt, pepper, a little sugar, milk and 
the corn. Mix well and bake in a buttered dish 45 minutes. 

STEWED CORN. 

Score the corn with a sharp knife and press out the grains with 
the back of the blade. Add half a pint of rich milk to 1 quart 
of corn and cook until tender in a double-boiler. Add salt, pep- 
per and 2 tablespoons butter. If too dry add a little cream. 
Or add sufficient water to the corn to cook without burning. In 
20 minutes drain off the water, add a cup of cream, and 1 table- 
spoon butter with pepper and salt. Cook 10 minutes longer and 
serve. 

STEWED DRIED CORN. 

1 pint corn, 1 tablespoon flour, 

2 tablespoons butter, 3 tablespoons cream, 
Salt and pepper, 1 teaspoon sugar. 

Soak the corn over night in cold water ; if that cannot be done, 
cover with water and place over a kettle of hot water for 3 or 4 
hours. When softened, cook 5 minutes, add the rest of the ingre- 
dients, cook 5 minutes longer and serve. 

CUCUMBERS. 

These may be fried, stewed or stuffed. 

Fried Cucumbers. — Take young fresh ones, cut across if large, 
lengthwise if small, dip in egg and flour or bread crumbs, let 
stand 15 minutes and fry in boiling lard. When done place on a 
paper in the mouth of the oven. 

Stewed Cucumbers. — Peel, cut in long quarters, cook in boiling 
water until clear; drain, put into cream sauce, and serve after 
cooking in hot water 10 minutes. 

Stuffed Cucumbers. — Use large ripe cucumbers. Pare, cut 
lengthwise in halves, and take out the seeds. Fill the halves with 



VEGETABLES. 487 

a forcemeat dressing, tie them together and cook 1 hour in broth. 
Add enough for a sauce, thicken with cornstarch and serve. 

BOILED DINNER. 

Wash the corned-beef and put it into a large pot of cold water. 
Cover tightly, and when it boils, set the pot where it will simmer 
gently. Allow 30 minutes to the pound from the time the water 
begins to boil. Quarter the cabbage, halve the turnips, and pare 
both turnips and . potatoes ; string the beans, and wash the beets 
carefully. Small turnips and beets need boiling from 1 to 2 hours, 
large ones longer ; beans take 2 or 3 hours, and potatoes from 30 
to 45 minutes. Cook the cabbage in boiling salted water accord- 
ing to directions. If the flavor of the beef is desired, take out 
some of the liquid and add to the cabbage-water. Serve the vege- 
tables in separate dishes unless it is desired to garnish the beef 
with some of the smaller varieties. Parsnips and carrots may 
also be used. Parsnips will need to cook 45 or 60 minutes, car- 
rots need from 1 to 2 hours. The secret of a nice boiled dinner 
is to cook long and slowly. 

EGG-PLANT. 

Avoid very large or old plants. Buy firm, glossy, medium- 
sized ones. It is unnecessary to slice them. Salt and drain the plants 
in order to have them sweet and tender. The bitter taste comes 
from being over-ripe or frosted. Peel and cut the vegetables in 
slices half an inch thick. Dip in beaten egg and flour, la}' in boil- 
ing lard, not butter, and fry till brown. Turn carefully, and 
watch to prevent scorching. When tender, lay in the mouth of 
the oven on paper. Sprinkle with salt and pepper, and serve 
when dry. If covered, it loses its crispness. Or, peel, slice and 
boil till tender ; drain, mash fine and season with salt, pepper, and 
butter. 

BAKED EGG-PLANT. 

Peel the vegetables ; cut them into large dice, and simmer 10 
or 15 minutes in a little boiling water. Drain in a colander, and 
press out any juice that remains. Add a little chopped parsley, 
pepper, salt, lemon juice or vinegar, and 3 tablespoons butter. 
The egg-plant should absorb all the butter. Pour into a buttered 



488 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

pudding dish, cover with bread crumbs, dot with batter, and bake 
30 minutes. An onion, grated and fried, may be added to the 
mixture before baking. Or, take stewed egg-plant and when 
seasoned put into a buttered baking dish, cover with cracker 
crumbs, dot with butter, and bake half an hour. 

GREENS. 

Beet-tops, chickoiy, cowslips, dandelions, endives, kale, turaip- 
tops, rhubarb, sorrel and spinach, are classed under this head. 
Only young leaves or plants are fit fcr use, and beet and turnip 
tops must be very young. Dandelions should be cut when small 
and before blooming. All the spines and fibres of rhubarb, sor- 
rel and spinach, must be carefully picked out. Look over plants 
or leaves carefully, reject stalks, tough or wilted leaves, wash 
thoroughly in several waters, drain well and cook in plenty of 
boiling salted water. Rhubarb, sorrel and spinach should not be 
covered while cooking. When done they will sink to the bottom 
of the kettle ; skim them out quickly into a colander, press dry 
with a saucer, and prepare for the table. A piece of bread pinned 
in a cloth and boiled with the greens will absorb airy disagreeable 
odor. It should be burned when taken from the kettle. 

Greens require from five to thirty minutes cooking, according to 
the age or variety. A good general rule for preparing greens is 
to ehop them after draining; heat, season with salt, pepper and 
butter ; vinegar may be added. Serve very hot. 

Kale requires longer boiling than most greens. When dry and 
chopped fine, add a little cream sauce, make into a mound, gar- 
nish with croutons and serve. 

Rhubarb and sorrel should be scalded, and boiled in fresh 
water. Dress like spinach. 

Spinach should be washed in several waters to free it from in- 
sects ; drain and boil slowly in a little salted water 10 or 15 min- 
utes. It will keep its bright color if left uncovered. Drain it 
perfectly dry, pressing out the water with a plate, chop it very 
fine, add plenty of butter, salt, pepper, a very little sugar, some 
cream or nice gravy, and heat all in a saucepan. Arrange it in a 
mound, garnish with slices of hard-boiled eggs, and serve hot. 



VEGETABLES. 489 

Chickory, dandelions, endives, also lettuce, may be dressed in like 
manner. 

VEGETABLE HASH. 

Chop the cabbage, parsnips, potatoes, turnips, or other vegeta- 
bles left from a boiled dinner. Put equal parts of butter and 
beef drippings into a spider, and when hot put in the vegetables. 
Add pepper and salt and a very little water. Some of the 
chopped beef improves the flavor. Cover, and when thoroughly 
heated, uncover, and stir occasionally to prevent burning. Serve hot. 

BOILED MACARONI. 

Though composed largely of flour and water, and rightly served 
as an entree, it is commonly classed and served as a vegetable. 
However it finally appears on the table, it is first boiled, and these 
directions will suffice as the foundation for other preparations. 
Use boiling salted water in the proportion of 3 pints water and 
1£ teaspoons salt to one-fourth pound macaroni. Break the mac- 
aroni in short lengths, drop into the water, cook rapidly, without 
covering, until tender, which will be in 20 or 30 minutes, and 
drain. A simple dressing is made by heating 1 cup cream, and 
stirring into it 1 tablespoon butter rubbed smooth with 1 teaspoon 
flour ; season, and when it boils add the macaroni, heat thoroughly, 
pour into a deep dish, cover with grated cheese or serve the cheese 
in another dish. Or, the macaroni, after draining, may be served 
with melted butter and grated cheese. 

MACARONI AND CHEESE. 

Butter a pudding dish and fill with alternate layers of boiled 
macaroni and grated cheese, the upper layer being of cheese. 
Add bits of butter with pepper and salt to each layer. Moisten 
with rich milk, cream, or strong stock, set in a moderate oven and 
bake a rich brown. Boiled rice may be used in layers with the 
macaroni and cheese. Or, stir into 1 cup of hot milk 1 table- 
spoon butter, with salt and pepper. When it boils pour it gradually 
over the well-beaten j'olks of 2 eggs and 4 tablespoons grated 
cheese. Put one-fourth pound boiled macaroni in a pudding dish 
and pour the dressing over it. Sprinkle grated cheese over the 
top and bake half an hour. 



490 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

MACARONI AND OYSTERS. 

Fill a buttered pudding dish with alternate layers of boiled 
macaroni and oysters. Sprinkle the oysters with pepper and salt, 
aul dot with butter. Pour over all 1 cup milk or cream, cover 
with bread crumbs, and bake 20 minutes in a hot oven. 

MACARONI AND TOMATOES. 

Cook half a can of tomatoes, or the equivalent in fresh toma 
toes, with 1 tablespoon chopped onion. Sift and acid 1 tablespoon 
butter rubbed smooth with 1 tablespoon flour, and salt and pepper. 
When the sauce is hot put the macaroni into it and simmer 25 
minutes. Serve, and accompany with a dish of grated cheese. 
Or, cook one-fourth pound macaroni in a quart of rich stock; 
when tender the stock should be nearly all absorbed. Drain, put 
in a deep dish, cover with a tomato sauce, strained and seasoned 
with salt, pepper and butter, and set 15 minutes in a moderate oven. 

MUSHROOMS. 

As there are two kinds, the edible and the poisonous, buy fresh 
ones from only those who know and understand mushrooms. In 
cooking, bear in mind the old test that poisonous mushrooms will 
discolor a silver spoon. Mushrooms may be baked, broiled, fried, 
stewed, scalloped, and served in catsups, gravies, and sauces. 
Large ones are best for baking, broiling and frying, while button 
mushrooms are more desirable for other preparations. They must 
be cooked in a porcelain-lined saucepan or an earthen dish. Peel 
and cut the stalk half an inch from the top of the mushrooms 
which are to be baked, boiled or fried. 

Baked Mushrooms. — Lay upside down in a buttered pie-plate, 
sprinkle with salt and pepper, dot with butter, bake in a quick 
oven, basting frequently with melted butter. Serve in 15 min- 
utes after squeezing lemon juice over them. 

Broiled Mushrooms. — Dip in melted butter, season with salt and 
pepper, lay on a hot gridiron, the upper side down, cover carefully 
and broil quickly on both sides. In five minutes, if tender, take 
them off carefully and place on thin slices of buttered toast. Add 
a little melted butter and serve. 

Fried Mushrooms. — Melt butter in a hot spider, sprinkle with salt 



VEGETABLES. 491 

and pepper, put in the mushrooms and fry 4 or 5 minutes. Serve 
on thin slices of buttered toast. 

Mushrooms for stews, scallops and sauces, etc., should be peeled 
and washed, after the stalks have been scraped and the earthy 
ends cut off. Let them lie 5 minutes in cold water. Dip them 
out, so that the water will drip from them and put them into a 
saucepan. Enough water will drain out to stew them ; in 5 min- 
utes add 1 tablespoon butter rubbed smooth with a little flour, 
salt, pepper, and 2 tablespoons cream. Let it boil, take from 
the fire and add the beaten yolk of an egg. 

In preparing scalloped mushrooms, take them from the cold 
water, dry well, and let them simmer 5 minutes in hot butter. Add 
a little flour, finely chopped parsley, salt, pepper, and a cup of 
broth. A little lemon juice improves the flavor. Cook gently 10 
or 15 minutes, take from the fire, stir in lightly the beaten yolk of 
an egg, and put into buttered shells ; cover the top with bread 
crumbs, dot with butter, set in a quick oven and serve very hot. 

CANNED MUSHROOMS. 

Open the can and drain the mushrooms, melt one tablespoon 
butter in a porcelain-lined saucepan, and when it boils shake in a 
little flour, add 1 cup cream, salt, pepper and the mushrooms. 
Heat thoroughly without boiling, remove from the fire and stir in 
the beaten yolk of an egg. This may be served on thin slices of 
buttered toast, or poured over broiled beefsteak. As canned 
mushrooms are cooked they only require to be heated before 
serving. 

OKRA. 

Take the young tender pods, cut off the stems close to the shoul- 
der, put them into a granite or porcelain-lined saucepan, iron dis- 
colors them, and cover with boiling salted water. Boil from 20 to 
30 minutes, and drain off the water. Season with butter, salt, 
and pepper ; vinegar may be added. Serve hot. Or, after boil- 
ing, slice in rings, season with butter, dip in batter and fry. 

OKRA AND TOMATOES. 

Slice young, tender pods crosswise; pare and slice an equal 
measure of tomatoes. Slice 2 pods of sweet peppers, throwing 



492 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

out the seeds, and stew all together for an hour or more. Add 
only water sufficient to keep the vegetables from burning. Season 
with butter and salt. If liked, a little piece of ham and a small 
quantity of rice may be cooked with the other ingredients. 

BAKED ONIONS. 

Use Bermuda or Spanish onions. Wash, and cook them 1 hour 
in boiling salted water. When tender, take the onions and lay 
them on a cloth to absorb the water. Roll each one in a piece of 
buttered tissue paper, twisting it at the top to keep it on, and bake 
1 hour in a slow oven, or until tender. Peel, baste with butter, 
brown in 15 minutes, season with pepper and salt, pour on melted 
butter and serve. Or, cut a slice from the top and bottom of each 
onion, peel them in water, cook them in boiling salted water, 
whitened with milk. When tender, take them out, drain, put into 
a dripping pan, sprinkle with salt, pepper, sugar, dot with bits of 
butter, add a little water, and brown nicely. 

BOILED ONIONS. 

Select white onions, cut a slice from the ends, and peel under 
water. Boil in a granite or porcelain-lined saucepan in plenty of 
boiling water. Pour off the water in 20 minutes and add more, 
which should be salted. Cook 1 hour, or till tender. Drain and 
serve with melted butter, pepper and salt. The water should be 
changed three times if the onions are strong. Or, after boiling, 
drain well and stew them gently in a cream sauce over hot water. 

FRIED ONIONS. 

Slice and boil onions ten minutes each time, in three waters ; 
drain, fry in equal quantities of butter and lard, sprinkle with 
salt and pepper, and serve when brown. 

PARSNIPS. 

Old parsnips should be pared, and young ones scraped. Let 
them lie 15 minutes in cold water; drain, and cook in boiling 
salted water from 1 to 3 hours. Parsnips are first boiled however 
they may be served afterwards. They are creamed, fried, mashed, 
or stewed. 

Creamed Parsnips. — Slice boiled parsnips, and gently cook them 
15 minutes in a cream sauce. 



VEGETABLES. 493 

Fried Parsnips. — Cut the boiled ones in long thin slices, dip them 
in flour, or egg and flour, fry in butter, and season with salt and 
pepper. Or, dip them in fritter batter and drop into boiling lard. 
When brown and puffed, take them out and drain on brown paper. 

Mashed Parsnips. — These should be cooked tender and rubbed 
through a colander ; add pepper, salt, plenty of butter and a little 
cream or milk. Serve like mashed potatoes. 

Steioed Parsnips. — These should be pared without boiling, cut 
in slices half an inch thick, and cooked in a saucepan with just 
enough water to cover them ; season with salt and pepper, a large 
lump of butter, cover closely and stir to prevent burning. When 
tender, and the water has cooked awa} T , the parsnips will be a 
creamy, golden color and very sweet. 

Parsnip Smother. — Make this by frying dice of fat salt pork, in a 
kettle, putting in equal quantities of sliced boiled parsnips and po- 
tatoes, with pepper and salt to taste. Over the top put a rich biscuit 
crust, with a hole in the center through which to pour water. Add 
a pint of water last, cover the kettle closely and at once, that the 
crust may get the full benefit of the steam. 

GREEN PEAS. 

Put the pods into cold water some time before shelling. Never 
wash the peas. Do not cook large and small peas together, but 
use separate saucepans. Boil fresh young pods half an hour, 
strain off the water, and boil the peas in it, using no more water 
than absolutel} r necessary. Boil Uncovered for 20 or 30 minutes. 
When tender, drain off the liquid, add a little cream, a large piece 
of butter, salt and pepper. Or, take equal parts of flour and but- 
ter, rub smooth, and stir into the peas, which should have a little 
liquor left on them. Season with salt and pepper. 

Pea Fritters. — Take 1 pint mashed peas, prepared for the table, 
mix cold with 2 beaten eggs, 1 cup sweet milk, half a cup flour, 
and 1£ teaspoons baking powder. Bake like griddle cakes for 
breakfast. 

Stewed Peas. — Take 1 quart peas, a little chopped lettuce, and 
1 onion sliced very thin. Add butter, pepper and salt, but no 
more water than remains about the lettuce after washing it. Stew 



494 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

it gently 2 hours. Just before serving, stir in a well-beaten egg. 

DRIED PEAS. 

Soak over night ; put them in cold water, and when boiling pour 
off the water, add fresh and cook until tender. The water should 
be nearly absorbed. Season with salt, pepper, plenty of butter and 
a little cream. 

BAKED POTATOES. 

Always use a brush in washing potatoes. Select smooth ones, 
of medium size, cut off a little slice from the seed end, and put 
them on the slide in a hot oven ; when half baked turn them. Bake 
from 45 to 60 minutes, according to the size and variety. 

POTATO BALLS. 

Mix mashed potatoes with the beaten yolk of an egg. Shape 
into small thin cakes, dip in flour and fry brown. Or, egg and 
crumb them and fry in butter or boiling lard. 

BOILED POTATOES. 

Wash clean, potatoes uniform in size. Do not pare them if in 
the fall or early winter. Later, a little ring may be pared around 
the potatoes before putting them into cold water to freshen, and 
toward spring they usually will need to be pared and have the 
blemishes cut away before soaking. They may be put on to boil 
in cold or boiling salted water. A trial of each will allow the cook 
to make her choice. If cooked in cold water do not cover the ket- 
tle ; when almost tender pour off nearly all the water, cover tightly 
and steam until done. Take off the cover and let them stand a few 
minutes to dry. If necessary, pare before serving. Cover them, 
if boiling water is used. Potatoes are particularly nice if steamed 
over boiling salted water. 

POTATO BORDER. 

Arrange creamy mashed potatoes around a plain mould on a 
platter. Remove the mould, glaze with white of an egg and brown 
lightly in the oven, or garnish with yolk of egg pressed through a 
strainer. Fill with creamed meats or ragout of fish or meat. 

BREAKFAST POTATOES. 

Pare, cut in very thin slices, and cook in a very little salted 
water. When tender, let the water evaporate, add salt and a lump 



VEGETABLES. 495 

of butter, with cream or milk. Cook 10 minutes, stirring occasion- 
all}', and serve. 

BROWNED POTATOES. 

Wash and pare potatoes of uniform size. v One hour before dinner 
lay in the pan with beef or veal and baste frequently. Sprinkle with 
salt and when half done turn them. Serve on the platter with the 
meat. 

CREAMED POTATOES. 

Cut cold potatoes in irregular pieces. Prepare cream, as for 
toast, with a large amount of butter in it. It should be very 
smooth. When the cream comes to a boil add the potatoes ; stir 
them till thoroughly heated and serve immediately. Or, melt a 
larger piece of butter in some milk, and add the potatoes. When 
heated set back in a cooler place and cook slowly from 20 to 30 
minutes until the milk is thoroughly absorbed in the potato. Add 
salt shortly before serving. Or, heat milk, butter, salt, a little 
flour and the potatoes and put into a buttered dish and bake 20 or 
30 minutes. 

POTATO CROQUETTES. 

2 cups mashed potatoes, Lemon juice, 

1 cup boiled rice, 2 eggs, 

2 tablespoons cream, Nutmeg. 

The rice must be soft enough to mash smooth, or rub through a 
colander. Mix with the potato and cream, beating all together 
thoroughly. Beat the yolks and whites of eggs separately. Stir 
in the yolks, whip in the whites, and add a little lemon juice and 
nutmeg. Shape in finger rolls, dip in beaten egg and bread crumbs, 
and set in the ice box 1 hour. Put them in a frying basket and 
cook till a golden brown, in boiling lard. Lay them on brown pa- 
per in the mouth of the oven. 

FRENCH POTATOES. 

Pare, cut in orange-like sections and throw in cold water. After 
30 minutes drain and lay the potatoes on a cloth to dry. Put in a 
basket and fry in boiling lard. Lay on brown paper and sprinkle 
with salt. 

PRIED POTATOES 1. 

Pare and slice them into cold water, drain and put into a hot 



496 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

spider in which are equal parts butter and beef drippings. Cover 
closely, cook 10 minutes, turn, brown and serve. Sweet potatoes are 
nice cooked this way. 

FRIED POTATOES 2. 

Peel freshly boiled potatoes, taking care to keep them whole. 
Egg and crumb the potatoes and fry a light brown in butter or 
boiling lard. 

POTATO HASH. 

Pare boiled potatoes, and chop moderately fine. Melt in a hot 
spider equal quantities of butter and nice drippings, put in the 
potatoes and sprinkle with salt and pepper ; stir occasionally to 
keep from burning, and serve when well browned. 

LYONNAISE POTATOES. 

Fry a part of a small onion in butter till a golden-brown color. 
Slice potatoes across the breadth in quartei'-inch thick pieces, and 
put them in the spider. Simmer gently till the butter is absorbed 
and their edges are a delicate brown. Sprinkle with salt, pepper, 
and very finely chopped parsley, mix well and serve. The pota- 
toes must not brown. 

MASHED POTATOES. 

Pare and boil the potatoes. Drain and dry them. Mash in the 
pot in which they were boiled, adding salt, cream, or hot milk in 
which a large lump of butter has been melted. Beat thoroughly 
to make them white and creamy. Put into a hot dish, smooth the 
top nicely, and serve. This dish should be prepared with especial 
care. 

NEW POTATOES. 

Never peel them with a knife, but scrub and rub and wash off 
the skin. Cover with boiling water, and cook rapidly in a closed 
kettle. When tender, drain off the water, sprinkle with salt, and 
set on the back of the stove to dry. Serve very hot. Or, make a 
sauce of 1 pint milk, 2 tablespoons butter, and 1 tablespoon flour; 
when it is boiling, add the small potatoes, or the larger ones, broken, 
heat together and serve. Or, prepare the potatoes for boiling. 
Melt some butter in a saucepan, and, when hot, place the potatoes 
in it ; simmer slowly, turn occasionally, and take them up when 



VEGETABLES. 497 

done. Put them in another pan with sufficient fresh butter to form 
a sauce, shake them over the fire till the butter is melted, arrange 
in a dish, pour the butter over them, and sprinkle with salt. Serve 
as hot as possible. 

POTATO NUTS. 

Pare raw potatoes, cut them in balls with a vegetable cutter and 
throw them into cold water. Drain, throw them into salted boil- 
ing water for five minutes ; skim them out, drain dr}' and put into 
a hot spider with plenty of butter. Shake them around, and set 
the spider into the oven to brown the potatoes. Salt and serve. 
Or, cook in boiling lard, drain, salt and serve. 

POTATO RISSOLES. 

Mash potatoes, add salt, pepper, and a little chopped parsley. 
Roll the potatoes into small balls, egg and crumb them and fry in 
hot lard 2 minutes. Finely minced tongue or ham may be added 
with good effect, or even chopped onions. 

SARATOGA POTATOES. 

Slice medium-sized potatoes very thin and even. Use a plane if 
possible. Drop them into ice water. "When very cold take out a 
few, and dry on a napkin. Separate the slices, drop them into a 
kettle of boiling lard ; keep them apart while cooking. As soon 
as they begin to turn a pale yellow, skim out and place on a wire 
sieve set on a plate in the oven. Sprinkle with salt. These will 
keep some time ; they may be heated in the oven or served cold. 
They should not be the least greasy. 

SCALLOPED POTATOES. 

Peel raw potatoes, slice thin into very cold water, and let them 
remain in a cold place over night. Allow plenty of water as tho 
potatoes will swell. This standing hardens the slices so that they 
do not go to pieces in cooking. In the morning, pour them into a 
colander and shake them dry, put them in layers in a well-buttered 
baking dish, sprinkling each layer with pepper, salt, and a few bits 
of butter. When the dish is full, pour in sweet milk to come to 
the top of the potatoes ; bake in a slow oven 1 or 2 hours, or until 
done. Too hot a fire causes milk that is cooking to separate, when 
it will not be so nice. Be sure and let the top brown. Serve ir 



498 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

the same dish. Or, a little flour may be shaken between the layers, 
and 2 yolks of eggs, beaten well, stirred into the milk before pour- 
ing over the potatoes. Cover the dish during the first half of the 
baking. 

POTATO SNOW. 

Choose white potatoes that are mealy when cooked. Boil in their 
jackets. Dry, peel and sprinkle with salt. Rub through a colan- 
der, or wire sieve into the dish in which it is to be served. Avoid 
disturbing it after sifting. Serve hot. 

POTATO SOUFFLE. 

2 cups mashed potatoes, 2 tablespoons melted butter, 

2 eggs, 6 tablespoons cream. 

Heat and beat the potato, butter, and salt to the consistency of 
cream ; add the cream and the eggs, beaten separately ; beat all 
together and bake in a quick oven till nicely browned. Or, omit 
the yolks of eggs, add the beaten whites last, mix well and bake. 

SWEET TOTATOES. 

Wash and bake in a hot oven ; or steam over boiling water and 
dry in the oven. Or, when almost done, take off, scrape or peel 
them, place in a dripping pan, and bake. Or, cut in slices and 
fry in butter. Or, peel and slice when raw, and fry, a layer at a 
time, on a griddle, or in a frying pan, in butter, being careful not 
to cook long. Or, drop in boiling lard, and brown on both sides. 
Or, halve, or quarter, and bake in a pan with roast beef, basting 
them often with the drippings. 

BROILED SWEET POTATOES. 

Cut whole boiled potatoes lengthwise into slices a quarter of an 
inch thick, and lay upon a gridiron over a clear, hot fire. Brown 
nicely on both sides, sprinkle with pepper and salt, lay upon a hot 
dish and butter each slice. 

MASHED SWEET POTATOES. 

Wash the potatoes and boil them till they are tender, then take 
off the skins and mash, adding salt, pepper and butter. Put them 
in a dish in a hot oven for five minutes before serving. 



VEGETABLES. 199 

SCALLOPED SWEET POTATOES. 

% cup butter, 1 teaspoon salt 

\i cup boiling water, Pepper, 

3 pints sliced, cold, boiled sweet potatoes. 

Sprinkle the potatoes with salt, and a little pepper. Butter a 

large, shallow dish, and spread the potatoes in it, making a layer 

not over an inch thick. Melt the butter in the water, and after 

sprinkling one-fourth of this liquid over the potatoes, put them into 

a hot oven. In 10 minutes sprinkle another quarter of the liquid 

over them ; repeat twice more at intervals of 10 minutes. After 

the final sprinkling let the dish bake 10 minutes longer (40 minutes 

in all,) setting it .on the top grate of the oven that it may brown. 

BOILED RICE. 

Wash rice carefully and sprinkle it into a large saucepan of boil- 
ing salted water. Boil rapidly so that the grains may be thrown 
about in its motion. In 20 or 25 minutes, if tender, skim into a 
colander over the hot water. Let it steam a little and serve. Rice 
should not be covered while cooking or when served. 

SOUTHERN RICE. 

After thoroughly washing and rubbing the rice, put it, with 
salted water enough to cover it twice over, in a double-boiler; cover 
the whole closely and cook 15 or 20 minutes, until the grains of 
rice are full and plump, but not mushy; drain off all the water pos- 
sible, and replace the rice in the kettle, allowing it to steam 15 
minutes longer on the back of the stove. The grains should be 
full and soft, and each one retain its form perfectly. It should be 
occasionally stirred lightly with a fork. Serve hot. 

SALSIFY OR VEGETABLE OYSTERS. 

Scrape thoroughly, and lay them in cold water to prevent discol- 
oration. Use a porcelain, or granite-lined saucepan, and cook the 
salsify in boiling water until tender. It may be cut in small, even 
pieces and heated in a cream sauce, previously prepared. A little 
chopped parsley sprinkled on the top improves it. Or, spread it 
on slices of buttered toast, and serve. Or, make a fritter batter, 
see page 72. and fry in boiling lard. 



500 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

FRIED SALSIFY. 

Boil the salsify until tender, let it become cool, grate it and add 
salt, pepper, and beaten eggs. Form it into cakes the size of an 
oyster, and fry them in hot lard. 

SCALLOPED SALSIFY. 

Peel, and cut boiled salsify into slices. Take an equal quantity 
of bread crumbs, and put a layer of salsify in a baking dish ; 
sprinkle with salt and pepper, cover with the crumbs and dot with 
butter. Fill the dish nearly full, alternating with salsify and 
crumbs. Pour cream over this and bake until a nice brown. 

SAUER KRAUT. 

Gather the cabbages and take off the outside leaves. Wash and 
quarter them, take out the core, and put in a clean barrel until 
there are enough to cut well. Then, with a clean, sharp spade, 
cut them fine and sprinkle with a little salt. One quart of salt is 
enough for forty gallons of kraut. If too much is put in, it will 
not sour. Pound until water rises; add more cabbage and pro- 
ceed as before, then take large cabbage leaves, wash, cover the 
kraut with them, and put on a board, with a stone for a weight. 
Wash the board and stone once a week until the kraut has ceased 
fermenting. Be sure to keep enough water on it to cover it, or the 
kraut will spoil. If made in cool weather, keep it in a warm place 
until sour enough to suit the taste. 

SUMMER SQUASH. 

Peel, take out the seeds, and cut across in thick slices ; boil in 
as little water as possible one-half or three-quarters of an hour, 
drain well, mash through a colander and set on the back part of 
**2 stove to dry, stirring occasionally. Season with butter, pepper 
aad salt. It is nice cut up and fried like egg plant. 

WINTER SQUASH. 

The Hubbard squash is thought to be best when baked, but all 
winter squash is nice steamed. Cut Hubbard squash in pieces 3' or 
4 inches square with an axe, as their shell is so hard a knife makes 
no impression. Take out the seeds and seed growth and steam 
until done. It requires a full hour to bake and nearly as long to 
steam ; peel off the rind, mash and season with salt, butter and 



VEGETABLES. 501 

cream. If some is left over it is good for a pie. Some squashes 
may have the pieces pared before cooking. If stewed, not steamed, 
use no more water than necessary to prevent burning. 

SUCCOTASH. 
1 quart cut corn, 1 cup hot milk, 

1 pint shelled beans, Salt and pepper, 

3 tablespoons butter. 
Use lima or butter beans and make in the given proportions. 
Do not cut the corn too close to the cob. Use boiling water. Cook 
the beans and cobs together half an hour and take out the cobs. 
In half an hour more drain off the water and add the corn, with 
the other ingredients. Watch carefully as it burns easily. If too 
dry add cream before serving. Or, leave sufficient water on the 
beans to cook the corn, and add a little cream, butter and salt be- 
fore serving. 

WINTER SUCCOTASH. 

1>2 pints dried corn, 1 tablespoon flour, 

1 pint dried lima beans, 1 cup cream, 

Salt and pepper. 
Wash the beans, they should be dried when green, and the corn. 
Put the beans in a kettle and cover with cold water ; cover the corn 
with cold water and set on the top of the kettle of beans so that 
while the latter slowly boils the corn may heat and swell. Cook 
the beans 20 minutes, drain off, cover with boiling water, and when 
tender add the corn and cook 15 minutes or till done; add the 
cream thickened with the flour, ro butter rubbed smooth with the 
flour, salt, and pepper. Serve. 

BAKED TOMATOES. 

Cut a thin slice from the blossom end of 12 solid, smooth, ripe 
tomatoes ; with a teaspoon remove the pulp without breaking the 
skin. Chop 1 onion fine, mix with powdered bread crumbs and 
the tomato pulp ; season with pepper, salt, and sugar, and add 1 
cup good sweet cream. Fill the tomatoes, put each slice back in 
its place, lay them the stem end down in a buttered baking-dish 
with a little water and a small lump of butter on each. Bake half 
an hour, or until thoroughly done ; place a bit of butter on each 
and serve in the same dish. 



502 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

FRIED TOMATOES. 

Peel under-ripe tomatoes and cut crosswise in thick slices; sprinkle 
with salt and pepper; dip each slice into flour and beaten egg, or 
bread crumbs, and fry at once; serve hot. A cup of milk may be 
thickened with flour and butter, boiled and poured over them. Or, 
the slices may be dipped in batter and fried slowly, till brown. 

FRIED GREEN TOMATOES. 

They should be of good size, full grown, but not beginning to 
turn red. Peel and cut them in half-inch slices, dip in flour and 
lay carefully in a hot spider in which is a plentuui amount of but- 
ter. Sprinkle with salt and pepper and brown on both sides. 

RAW TOMATOES. 

The tomatoes should be cold ; pare them, removing as little to- 
mato with the skin as possible. Cut in slices a fourth of an inch 
thick and let stand 15 minutes in the ice box before serving. 
Serve with salad dressing, or salt, pepper, and sugar, with vinegar, 
or sugar and cream. 

TOMATO AND RICE. 

Prepare as for stewed tomatoes, and when boiling add raw rice 
in the proportion of 2 tablespoons rice to 1 cup tomato. Cook 
slowly 30 minutes ; add salt, pepper, sugar, a large piece of butter, 
stir well together and serve. Or, the tomato may be cooked suf- 
ficiently to sift before adding the rice. It must be carefully watched 
to prevent burning, for tomato pulp and rice are easily scorched. 

SCALLOPED TOMATOES. 

Put in a buttered baking-dish a layer of bread or cracker-crumbs 
seasoned with bits of butter, a la3 r er of sliced tomatoes seasoned 
with pepper, salt, and sugar, then a layer of crumbs, and fill the 
dish with altei-nate layers, finishing with crumbs. Bake from three- 
quarters of an hour to an hour. Onions, soaked over night in hot 
water, dried well, cut in half -inch slices, and browned in butter, 
may be added, a la3'er on each kvyerof tomatoes. Or, line a basin 
with bits of toasted bread, which are much better than crackers ; 
pour in a can of tomatoes which have been heated and seasoned 
with butter, pepper, salt, and sugar. Break an egg into a bowl ; 
beat it well, add a pinch of salt and a cup of sweet milk, then stir 



VEGETABLES. 503 

in toasted bread that has been rolled to a powder. It should be 
thick enough to be easily spread over the tomatoes. Dot with bits of 
butter, and bake the tomatoes half an hour. The bread should be 
toasted until it is dry all through and of a golden brown color, and 
the crumbs for the top crust should be mixed with half a teaspoon 
of baking powder. 

TOMATO SOUFFLE. 

2 cups tomato pulp, Salt and pepper, 

6 eggs. 

Stew tomatoes well, drain off the juice and rub the pulp through 
a sieve. Beat the whites and } r olks of eggs separately. Mix the 
yolks with the pulp, season with salt and pepper, and beat in the 
whites. Put into a buttered baking-dish, and bake 10 or 15 min- 
utes in a hot oven. Serve immediately. 

STEWED TOMATOES. 

Scald, pare and slice them into a porcelain or granite-lined sauce- 
pan. Stew them 20 minutes over a brisk lire, and season with 
salt, pepper, a large lump of butter, and sugar. They may be 
thickened with bread, or cracker crumbs, a little cornstarch, or 
flour, though fresh and not over-ripe tomatoes lose their fine flavor 
if it is done. A chopped onion may be added when the tomato 
begins to cook, for those who like its flavor. Or, equal quantities 
of tomatoes and corn may be used together and served after sea- 
soning. 

STEWED CANNED TOMATOES. 

1 can tomatoes, 1 tablespoon grated cheese, 

1 cup bread crumbs, 2 eggs, 

2 tablespoons butter, Salt and pepper, 

1 tablespoon flour, % cup boiling water. 

Put the butter in a hot pan, and when it begins to brown, pour 
in the tomatoes and cook them as fast as possible without burning. 
When nearly done, drop in the bread crumbs and cheese ; season 
and add the flour which first must be stirred to a smooth paste 
with cold water. Stir in the beaten egg the last thing before tak- 
ing from the fire. 



504 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

STUFFED TOMATOES. 
12 firm tomatoes, Parsley, chopped fine, 

1 minced onion, Pepper and salt, 

Fine bread crumbs, Butter, 

3 tablespoons minced veal or chicken. 
Cut a slice from the stem end of each and scoop out the pulp. 
Fiy the onion in butter, and add the tomato pulp, meat, crumbs to 
thicken, with parsley, salt and pepper. Fill the tomatoes, cover 
the opening with crumbs, add a piece of butter and bake until the 
top is browned. 

TOMATO TOAST. 

Run a quart of stewed ripe tomatoes through a colander, place 
in a porcelain saucepan, season with butter, pepper, salt, and sugar; 
cut thin slices of bread, toast brown on both sides, butter, lay on 
a platter and cover with the tomatoes. It is recommended to stir 
a cup of sweet cream into the tomatoes just before serving. 

TURNIPS. 

Peel, slice, and lay in cold salted water half an hour. Drain, 
throw into boiling salted water, and cook from 45 minutes to la- 
bours. Boil rapidty, drain well, and mash or put through a coarse 
sieve. Add butter, a little cream, and salt. Form in a mound 
and sprinkle with black pepper. Rutabagas or j^ellow turnips are 
improved by adding 2 potatoes to 6 turnips. These must be added 
in season to finish cooking with the turnips, and mash them to- 
gether. Young turnips should be cooked whole, and will require 
nearly 1 hour's time. Serve with a cream sauce, or melted butter, 
pepper and salt. 

BROWNED TURNIPS. 

Boil and drain. Melt some butter in a hot pan, and lay in 
slices of turnips. Sprinkle them with salt, pepper, and a little 
sugar. Brown on both sides and serve. 

DICED TURNIPS. 

Pare, slice, cut in dice half an inch square, boil till nearly done 
in a very little water ; drain and finish cooking in salted boiling 
water, using as little as possible, and add 1 tablespoon of sugar to 
1 quart of turnips. Drain and dry ; add 3 tablespoons of cream 
Mnd 1 beaten egg, or a cream sauce, and serve. 



VEGETABLES. 505 

STEWED TURNIPS. 

Peel the turnips and cut them in pieces about half an inch square; 
salt, steam until tender, put into a saucepan and cover them with 
sweet milk. Add butter and pepper and let them simmer. 

TRUFFLES. 

The truffle belongs to the mushroom family. When properly 
prepared to serve with fish, game, poultr}', etc. , they add a deli- 
cious flavor. In this country their use is largely confined to sauces. 

Select some fine truffles and wash them carefully in several 
waters. Wrap each in buttered paper and bake 1 hour in a hot 
oven. When done, slip off the wrapper, wipe the truffle and 
serve in a hot napkin. Truffles are particularly nice with eggs. 
Beat the eggs thorough^ and scramble them with cream and plenty 
of butter. Scrape them carefully from the bottom of the dish, 
and stir in 2 or 3 nice chopped truffles. Take from the fire while 
the eggs are soft, empty into a deep round dish and pour around 
it a rich brown gravy, or stock boiled down to the right consistency. 

CANNED VEGETABLES. 

Many people prefer to buy canned goods as they are now pre- 
pared very nicely and sold at low prices. Others consider the 
home preparations superior, and the following recipes may assist 
the latter class. The long and short methods are given, but ex- 
perience seems to indicate the former method as being the most 
reliable one. 

Canned vegetables should be opened and emptied from the cans 
fifteen minutes before preparing for the table. 

All vegetables should be canned when in their first freshness and 
prime. Snap the beans, cut the corn and scrape the milk from 
the cob, shell the peas and beans and break the asparagus in long 
or short lengths. 

Use glass cans of uniform size, packing in the vegetables firmly. 
Screw on the tops lightly and set the cans on a rack or boards in 
the boiler. Fill with warm water till it reaches half wa} T to the 
top of the cans. Cover and boil four hours. Take off the tops to 
let out the gas and fill with boiling water. Screw on the covers 
tightly and lift out the cans with a damp towel. 



506 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

As until recently it has been thought essential to use tartaric 
acid in canning, one recipe containing the acid is given, though 
preference is shown to the long-cooking and tight-sealing method 
full}' as effective in preserving the vegetables and not open to any 
objection. 

CANNED LIMA BEANS. 

Boil them 1 hour, season with salt and pepper ; fill glass cans 
quite full, seal carefully, and put in a cool, dark place. 

CANNED STRING BEANS 1. 

String fresh butter-beans, break in two, and cook in slightly 
salted water till tender ; pack boiling hot and cover well with the 
salted water, and seal. For use, drain, heat, and season to taste. 

CANNED STRING BEANS 2. 

String them, break them into inch pieces, and boil 5 minutes ; 
drain well, and pack closely in glass jars. Add 3 tablespoons water, 
and seal almost air tight. Wrap each jar in a cloth, or set it on 
a board to keep it from the bottom of the boiler, cover it with 
water and let it boil 3 hours. Remove one can at a time from the 
boiler, and seal it immediately. The secret in keeping vegetables 
perfectly, lies in keeping the air from them after boiling. That is 
why they are sealed nearly air tight before the}" are boiled. 

CANNED STRING BEANS 3. 

String fresh beans, break in several pieces, cook in boiling 
water 1 minutes, and can like tomatoes. 

CANNED CORN — 1. 

Cut the corn from the cob when fresh and sweet. Put a cupful 
into a jar and pound it down with a potato masher until the milk 
starts ; add another cupful, treat it in the same way, and continue 
until the milk runs over. Wipe the jar clean, put on the rubber and 
cover, screw down tightly, and set the can into cold water. Let it 
boil 3 hours, tighten the cover, and set away in a dark place. When 
wanted for use, turn the jar upside down in hot water, to loosen 
the cover. 

• CANNED CORN — 2. 

Dissolve 1 ounce of tartaric acid in one half cup water ; take 1 
ablespoon to 2 quarts of sweet corn, and cook all together in suf- 



VEGETABLES. 507 

ficient water to keep the corn from burning. Cook till the corn is 
tender, then seal in glass cans. When wanted for use, put in a 
level teaspoon of soda to each quart and heat ; season for the table, 
using a little white sugar. Should the corn turn yellow, too much 
soda was used ; if so, put in a drop or two of vinegar ; if it tastes 
acid, use a little more soda. 

CANNED CORN — 3. 

Cut the corn from the cob, and cook as if preparing for imme- 
diate use. When nearly done, add three-fourths pint salt to every 
8 pints corn and boil till thoroughly cooked, put into cans, cover- 
ing the corn well with the brine, and seal. To cook corn put up 
in this manner, drain off the brine, cover the corn deeply with 
water and boil 5 or 10 minutes ; pour off the water and add milk, 
butter, pepper and a little sugar ; the latter restores the sweetness 
lost in the brine. This method of canning has proved very satis- 
factory. String beans and peas may be canned in the same manner. 

CORN FOR WINTER USE. 

Cover the bottom of a clean keg or barrel with salt, put in a 
la}'er of corn with the husks on, cover with salt, and proceed in 
the same manner with alternate laj-ers of salt and corn. When 
all is in, lay on a large stone, and cover with a pickle of salt 
and water. When used, remove the husks, soak 24 hours in cold 
water, and cook as new corn. If not fresh enough change the 
water and soak longer. Or, leave all but the outer husks on the 
corn and tie down tightly over the cob at the silk end ; pack 
closely in a clean keg or barrel, lay on a weight, and cover with 
brine about two-thirds the strength of pickle for meat. Prepare 
for use as directed above. 

CANNED PEAS. 

Proceed in the same manner as directed for canning beans in 
recipe No. 2, only park them in the jars without first cooking them. 

TO DRY PEAS. 

Use green peas suitable for cooking ; shell and spread smoothly 
on plates and set in a cool oven or near the fire ; let them dry 
slowly, stirring occasionally. When hard pack in jars, being care- 



508 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

ful to cover closely, and keep in a dry place. Soak in cold water 
till plump before cooking. 

DRIED SWEET POTATOES. 

Steam them until they can be eaten ; then peel, slice, and dry 
them. If thoroughly dried, they will be very hard. For use, cover 
them with water and cook until soft ; season with butter and sugar. 

CANNED TOMATOES. 

Tomatoes must be fresh, and not over-ripe, to keep well. Pour 
boiling water on them, let stand a few moments, drain, and re- 
move the skins. They may be canned sliced or whole. Cook a 
few minutes in their own juice, and skim well, stirring with a sil- 
ver or wooden spoon. Use glass cans with perfectly fitting covers 
and rubbers ; scald and set them on a towel folded in several thick- 
nesses and wrung from cold water. Fill quickly with the boiling 
tomatoes, wipe clean and dry around the top, be sure each can is 
perfectly full, and seal at once. Cover with caps of brown paper, 
which remove when examining the tomatoes, as will be necessary 
for a couple of weeks, to see if they are keeping well. Keep in a 
closed box or cupboard in a cool, dark cellar. 



COOK'S TIME TABLE. 



TIME OF 
COOKING. 



TIME OF 
DIGESTION. 



Apples, sour, hard Raw 

Apples, sweet and mellow Raw 

Asparagus Boiled 

Beans, pod Boiled 

Beans, with green corn Boiled 

Beef *Roasted 

Beefsteak Broiled 

Beefsteak Fried 

Beef, corned Boiled 

Bass, fresh Broiled 

Beets, young Boiled 

Beets old Boiled 

Bread, corn .... Baked 

Bread, wheat Baked 

Butter, Melted 

Cabbage Raw 

Cabbage and vinegar Raw 

Cabbage Boiled 

Cake, sponge . . . . : Baked 

Carrot, orange Boiled 

Cauliflower Boiled 

Cheese, old Raw 

Chicken Fricasseed 

Codfish, dry and whole Boiled 

Custard, 1 qt Baked 

Duck, tame Roasted 

Duck, wild Rare roasted 

Dumpling Boiled 

Eggs, hard Boiled 

Eggs, soft Boiled 

Eggs Fried 

Eggs Raw 

Fowls, domestic Boiled or roasted 

Gelatine Boiled 

Goose, wild Roasted 

Lamb Boiled 

Meat and vegetables Hashed 

Milk Raw 

Milk Boiled 

Mutton Broiled 

Mutton * Roast 

Onions Boiled 



15 to 20 m. . 
45 to 60 m. . 
45 to 60 m . . 

15 m 

6 to 8m.. 

3 to 4 hrs. . 
10 m. per lb 
30 to 45 m.. 
Forever . . . . 

2 hrs 

45 to 60 m.. 

45 to 60 m . . 

60 m 

30 to 45 m . . 
30 to 40 m . . 

1:30 to 2 hrs. 

2 hrs 

30 to 40 m . . 
40 to 60 m . . 

30 m 

60 m 

15 to 20 m.. 

3 to 5 in . . 
5 m 

2 to 3 hrs. . 

2 hrs 

2 to 3 hrs. . 

8 to 15 m. . 
15 m 

30 to 45 ni . . 



II. M. 

2 00. 
1 30. 





2 

2 


30. 
45. 


4 
2 


00. 
45. 






3 
3 


15. 

30. 




2 

4 
2 
3 


00. 
00. 
30. 
15. 


3 

2 
2 


30. 
45. 
00. 


4 


00. 


:; 
3 


00. 
80. 




1 


00 . 


g 


30. 
30. 










3 


15. 



509 



TIME OK 
CO KING. 



TIME OF 
DIGESTION. 



Oysters " Roasted, 

Oysters Stewed, 

Parsnips Boiled, 

Pig's feet Boiled, 

Pork *Roast, 

Pork, ham Boiled, 

Pork Broiled, 

Pork Fried, 

Potatoes Baked, 

Potatoes Boiled, 

Potatoes Roasted, 

Rice Boiled, 

Salmon, fresh *Boiled, 

Sausage Fried, 

Soup, chicken Boiled, 

Soup, oyster or mutton Boiled, 

Soup, vegetable Boiled, 

Spinach Boiled, 

Tapioca Boiled, 

Tomatoes Fresh, 

Tomatoes Canned, 

Trout, salmon, fresh Boiled or fried, 

Turkey Roasted, 

Turnips Boiled , 

Veal Broiled, 

Venison steak Broiled, 

* To the ft. 



3 to 5 m 

3 to 5 m 
30 to 45 m 

15 m 

4 to 5 hrs 

30 to 45 m 

30 m 

30 to 45 m 
30 to 45 m 
10 m. .:. . 

15 m 

3 to 4 hrs 

3 hrs 

3 to 4 hrs 
20 to 30 m 

60 m 

20 to 30 m 
15 to 20 m 

15 m 

3 hrs 

30 to 45 m 

8 to 10 m 



u. 



M. 



3 30 . 

2 30. 

1 00. 

5 15. 



3 30. 

2 33. 
1 00. 



00. 



30. 
25. 
30. 
00. 
30. 



510 



TABLE OF 
WEIGHTS and MEASURES. 

ft | oz. 



1 quart sifted flour — 16 ounces 

1 quart sifted Indian meal 

1 quart powdered sugar 

1 quart granulated sugar 

1 quart coffee "A" sugar 

1 quart best brown sugar 

1 pint closely packed butter 

10 medium-sized eggs 

4 cups sifted flour 

2% cups powdered sugar 

2 cups granulated sugar 

2Y 2 cups best brown sugar 

Butter size of an egg 

1 tablespoon of butter, heaped 

1 pint of water or fruit juice 

1(5 fluid ounces, or 4 gills, or 1 pint. 

1 cup water, or 2 gills 

1 wineglass of rose water 

1 tablespoon, or 4 teaspoons 



Equals 


1 


" 


1 


" 


1 


" 


1 


" 


1 


" 


1 


" 


1 


•■ 


1 


" 


1 


" 


1 


" 


1 


(< 


1 


« 


1 


«« 


1 



9 

8 
10 



4 gills=l pint; 
2 pints=l quart; 
4 quarts=l gallon; 



60 drops=l teaspoon; 
2 teaspoons=l dessertspoon: 
2 dessertspoons=l tablespoon; 
2 saltspoons=l teaspoon, dry. 

AVOIRDUPOIS WEIGHT. 
16 drams (dr.)=l ounce (oz.) 4 quarters=l hundred weight 

16 ounces=l pound (lb.) (cwt.) 

25 pounds=l quarter (qr.) . 2000 pounds=l ton (T.) 

WEIGHTS OF ARTICLES. 
Apples, dried, bushel, 25 pounds. Flour, barrel, net, 
Beef, firkin, 100 

Pork, barrel, 200 " 

Beans, bushel, 60 " 

Butter, firkin, 56 " 

tub, 84 

Peaches, dried, bushel, 33 " 
Fish, barrel, 200 " 

" quintal, 112 " 



196 pounds. 
Honey, gallon, 12 " 

Molasses, hhd., 130 to 150 gallons. 
Salt, barrel, ?>%. bushels. 

" bushel, 70 pounds. 
Sugar, barrel, 200 to 250 pounds. 
Soap, barrel, 256 " 

" box, 75 

Tea, chest, 60 to 84 " 



511 



FOODS. 

g 

EVERY one recognizes the fact that the happiness of our 
homes, the health of our families and the welfare of our 
nation is greatly influenced by the food we eat. 

At this age of applied science it has become the duty of every 
housewife to know something of the food with which she supplies 
her household. Most persons have had some vague ideas of the 
relative values of different foods, and of the changes they undergo 
in cooking. These theories they have probably learned from their 
mothers, gleaned from their neighbors, or read in some paper. Per- 
haps they have accepted them as facts, but at some time or other 
they read or hear something that contradicts them and then they are 
at a loss to know what to believe or what not to believe. At some 
time they have been convinced that people ate too much, at another, 
that meat was the all-strengthener, or they may have been afflicted 
with the vegetarian fad. Surely they would not have pinned their 
faith to one-sided diets if they had rightly comprehended the main 
facts of nutrition. 

In the following pages an effort has been made to present some- 
thing of the facts in regard to the composition of food, the part the 
different kinds of foods take in the nutrition of the body, together 
with something of the change that is effected by cooking and the 
process of digestion. 

Foods are classified by all leading authorities, excluding the 
oxygen we breathe, into five great classes. 

1. Water, 2. Proteids, 

3. Fats, 4. Carbohydrates, 

5. Salts or mineral constituents. 

WATER. 

Water, in one sense is not a food, but it fills one of the most im- 
portant offices in the nutrition of the body. It constitutes about 
three-fourths of the weight of the body. It is found in the mus- 

512 



FOODS. 513 

cles and bones, but abounds in the blood and secretions. It holds 
in solution the important material they contain, and by giving the 
necessaiy fluidity to the blood transports this material to the dif- 
ferent parts of the body and conveys away that which has fulfilled 
its mission. 

Water is also the great regulator of heat, and by its evaporation 
reduces any excessive temperature of the body. 

Besides the water we take in the form of beverages, we obtain 
some in all of our solid food. The amount contained in them va- 
ries from 1 to 98 per cent. The vegetables, such as cabbages, car- 
rots, cauliflowers, cucumbers, onions, parsnips, squash, tomatoes 
and turnips, and also the different fruits, are mostly water. 

PEOTEIDS. 

The pre ieids are also known as albuminous foods, and nitroge- 
nous or flesh-forming foods. The latter is the most significant and 
is so-called because this class of foods contains a large proportion 
of the element nitrogen. 

We find nitrogen in our muscles and muscular tissues. We also 
find it the product of their decomposition. Hence, if the wear of 
these tissues causes the liberation of nitrogenous compounds, this 
loss must be replaced by some food that contains nitrogen. The 
fats and carbohydrates do not. Besides this function, the pro- 
teids are considered as the stimulating foods, or those that impart 
a speed and energy to the organs above that necessary to perfect 
nutrition. 

The nitrogenous foods are derived from both the animal and veg- 
etable kingdoms and are found in eggs, lean meat, fish, milk, cheese, 
leguminous plants and the cereals. The different proteid principle 
of each is known as albumen, fi brine, casein and gluten. 

The digestion of this class of foods is not well known. In the 
mouth they should be finely comminuted, as the chemical action 
is rapid in proportion to the fineness of division. The first chem- 
ical change takes place in the stomach, and the agents are pepsin 
and the acid of the gastric juice. The two together render the 
nitrogenous substance soluble and capable of passing through a 
membrane, 



514 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

EGGS. 

The proteid of the egg is known as albumen, from albus, mean- 
ing white. Eggs contain 73.67 per cent water, 12.55 per cent al- 
bumen and 12.11 per cent fat. They are considered by some 
physiologists to be the most easily digested of this class of foods. 
Plrysicians say that they are as digestible raw as cooked. 

The raw white of an egg is a colorless, semi-liquid and viscous 
substance, soluble in cold water. If we place some in a glass tube 
with a thermometer and heat it, we will observe the following 
changes. When the temperature of 134° is reached white fibers 
appear; at 160° the whole mass becomes white and quite opaque. 
It is now coagulated, and in this condition is a tender, delicate 
and jelly-like substance, and is easily digestible. Heated to 212° 
it shrinks and becomes hard. If it be subjected to a higher tem- 
perature it becomes a horny and tough substance quite indigestible. 

Tliis experiment teaches a great deal that is little understood. 
It shows that the cooking temperature of albumen is not 212°, the 
boiling point of water, but 160°, and accounts for the indigestibility 
of fried and hard-boiled eggs. 

MEAT. 

Under this head is included the flesh of all animals used for 
food: beef, veal, mutton, pork, poultry and game. 

In the eating of animal flesh, man takes advantage of the work 
done by the animal in the preparation of vegetable food. If we 
examine a piece of lean meat we find that the red part is made up, 
first, of very tiny, sausage-like bags, or muscle fibers, as the}' are 
called, and in these are contained the precious proteid flavors, salts, 
and water, all mixed together; second, the muscle fibers are bound 
together by a connective tissue; third, floating in the j uices between 
the fibers and tissues is more proteid. 

By analysis of beef that is medium fat, we find it is 72.25 per 
cent water, 21.93 per cent proteid, and 5.19 per cent fat. The 
lean of well-fatted animals contains as much as 20 per cent less 
water. One fact worthy of mention is that while the price of the 
tender parts of the animal is high, they contain no more nutri- 



POODS. 515 

ment than the cheaper cuts. Indeed, the price seems to be in ex- 
act inverse ratio to the amount of nutriment contained. 

In cooking meat the connective tissue should be softened and 
loosened so that the little bundles of fiber, which contain the nutri- 
ment, may fall apart easily when brought in contact with the fork 
or teeth; the albumen and fibrine should be coagulated, not horn- 
ified. By cooking a more agreeable flavor is developed. 

The albumen of the meat is identical with that of the egg. If 
lean meat is chopped fine and allowed to stand in cold water an 
hour, we will find that the water has become red. The water has 
dissolved the albumen, coloring matter, and flavors. If this liquid 
be heated, the albumen will coagulate and at a temperature below 
the boiling point. 

It should be recognized in the different methods of cooking meat 
that there are just three different results to be obtained : first, to 
retain all the nutriment in meat, as in broiling, roasting, frying, 
and boiling ; second, to extract it into the water, as in soups and 
meat teas ; third, to have it partly in the meat and partly in the 
water, as in stews. 

BROILING. 

True broiling is cooking directly over red-hot, glowing coals. 
The meat is cooked by radiant heat, and it is the hottest form of 
cooking. The object to be obtained is to keep the juices within 
the meat. How is it to be accomplished? We have seen that heat 
coagulates albumen. Have the meat cut in a slice, from an inch to 
an inch and a half in thickness, and placed in a broiler*. Put it 
directly over the coals and very near to them. The albumen on 
the outside is instantly seared, and thus hardened presents a bar- 
rier through which the juices cannot escape. Before they have an 
opportunity of rising and passing out from the other side, we turn 
the meat and the second side is treated to the same process. 

Now, by allowing the meat to remain a few minutes over the 
coals the water inside is heated^ to 180°. The heat of the water 
coagulates the albumen, and the combined presence of liquid and 
heat softens the connective tissues. Some of the water is changed 
to steam and this gives the meat a puffed appearance. When these 



516 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

three things are accomplished, the meat is cooked, and when eaten 
it is found to be juic}-, tender, and well-flavored. One other thing 
has been done, namely, the browning of the surface. This is due, 
probably, to the caramelizing of the albumen, and it is found to ; 
possess an entirely different flavor, but one that is very agreeable. 

Had the cooking of the steak been prolonged, the result would 
have been an ill-cooked specimen, tough, desiccated, shriveled and 
tasteless, due to the evaporation of the juices, the loss of the vol- 
atile flavors, and the consequent hardening of the albumen and 
tissue. 

As broiling is a very quick method of cooking, only meat of f 
very tender fiber is suitable, as there is neither time nor moisture 
to soften that which is tough. 

Are not these facts forcible enough to settle the question as to 
whether meat is more digestible rare than well done? The preju- 
dice against rare-done meat is largely due to an erroneous idea of 
what is meant by that expression. Order a rare-cooked steak at 
any restaurant or hotel, and the waiter will set before you one that 
is raw in the inside. This is a raw steak and not a rare one. A 
rare steak is pink throughout, and not purple anywhere. 

ROASTING. 

Roasting is identical with broiling, except that we have the 
meat in a cubical form, and a smaller surface in proportion to the 
weight. The surface may be seared by a hot oven, in a frying J 
pan, or by a bath in hot fat. 

BOILING. 

As in boiling we have additional moisture, and a longer timej J 
may be used in the cooking, meat of a tougher fiber may be apJ I 
propriately cooked by this method. The imprisonment of the 
juices is accomplished by immersing the meat in the boiling wate^ 
which coagulates on the outside." After boiling for 10 minutes 
the temperature should be lowered to 180° as we do not wish th 
inside temperature to be higher than that. More or less of ff 
nutriment finds its way into the water, consequently this liqui 
should be utilized. 

While on the subject of boiling, it will not be out of place 



FOODS. 5 1 7 

say something in regard to a fact which is not practically under- 
stood by cooks. We have learned by the preceding experiment 
that the cooking point of meat is not the boiling point of water. 
But many foods, especially vegetables, are best cooked at the boil- 
ing temperature. If a thermometer be placed in water while be- 
ing heated, the mercuiy. will steadily rise until the water is boil- 
ing, or 212° is reached, when it will become stationary and remain 
so although much additional heat be applied, and the water be 
made to boil violently. If this fact were understood and observed, 
much precious fuel might be saved. When the boiling point is 
once reached, very little heat is needed to keep it at this point. 
All the surplus heat is spent in changing the water to steam. For 
all ordinary cooking, gently boiling water is as effective as if it 
bods rapidly. 

FRYING. 

In frying, which is properly cooking by immersion in hot fat, 
the cooking medium is fat, instead of water as in boiling. The 
temperature of the fat should be about 385°. As any escape of 
water into the hot fat causes great commotion, an additional pre- 
caution is taken by enveloping the meat or food to be fried, in a 
coating of crumbs, and eggs, or in the case of mixtures, as dough- 
nuts, the egg is added to the mixture itself. This also prevents 
the food from absorbing fat. The reason of this is obvious. 

SOUP-MAKING. 

• In soup-making, a contrary result is to be obtained from that of 
boiling and roasting. The juices are to be transferred to the 
water. Meat that is so tough and coarse as to be undesirable for 
cooking by an}' other method, may be utilized by this one. We 
have seen that the juices and albumen of meat are readily soluble 
in cold water, and this principle should be applied by allowing the 
meat to stand in cold water for at least an hour, and in order that 
more surface be exposed to its action the meat should be cut into 
small pieces. It may then be heated to a temperature of 200°, 
that degree being necessary to dissolve the gelatine of the bones. 
The skimming and clearing of soups should be avoided if a nutri- 



518 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

tious soup is desired, for by so doing we remove the coagulated 
albumen. 

STEWING. 

In stewing we eat both the meat and broth. It is a desirable 
method for cooking the tougher and cheaper parts of meat. Braiz- 
ing and pot-roasting are forms of stewing, and are methods with 
which every housekeeper should be familiar if economy is an item 
of consideration. 

FISH. 

Fish, because of its abundance, cheapness, and wholesomeness, 
is an invaluable article of food. It contains more water and less 
solid material than meat, is rich in nitrogen, and has an alkaline 
taste. « 

Red-blooded fish, as salmon, mackerel, and blue fish, have the 
oil distributed through the body, while the white fish, as cod, had- 
dock, halibut and flounder, have it in the liver. The latter fish is 
very digestible when perfect^ fresh. Fresh fish ma} T be told by 
the fullness of the eye and the firmness of the flesh. 

CHEESE. 

Cheese is the coagulated casein of milk, together with some fat 
and sugar. The casein, the albumen of milk, is coagulated by an 
acid obtained from rennet. Ity allowing the cheese to ripen, a fer- 
ment is developed. The presence of this ferment is the reason 
that a small quantity taken with food aids in digestion. 

Milk cheese contains 48. 02 percent, water, 32.65 per cent, pro- 
teid, 8. 41 per cent, fat, and 6. 80 per cent, sugar. Comparing this an- 
alysis with that of meat, we find it to be much richer in proteids. 
This, together with its low price, makes it a valuable substitute 
for the more expensive meat. It is much used as such in many 
countries of Europe. It is not considered easy of digestion. 

GELATINE. 

Gelatine is a substance obtained from the bones, the gelatinous 
tissues of animal flesh, and from certain parts of fishes. 

If its nutritive value could be estimated by the nitrogen it con- 
tains, it would, indeed, rank high. Its value as a food, and the 
part it performs in nutrition, is not fully understood. Exagger- 



FOODS. 510 

ated ideas of its value have been entertained. Our grandmothers 
believed it to be highly nutritious, prepared it in the form of jel- 
lies for invalids, and estimated the value of their soups by the 
consistency of the jelly they formed on cooling, which thickness is 
due to the gelatine they contain. No doubt many a victim has 
died of starvation by the reliance of nurses upon this theory. 

It has been demonstrated that gelatine alone cannot sustain 
life, but it is now believed that if taken in conjunction with other 
food it is of some worth. Its inability to sustain life may be ac- 
counted for by the fact that it is not changed in digestion, so that 
it will pass through a membrane readily, and therefore only a small 
portion can pass into the circulation. Nevertheless it is not un- 
wholesome, and is a convenient vehicle for conveying food, partic- 
ularly to invalids. 

LEGUMINOUS FOODS. 

Under this head are peas, beans, and lentils. Beans contain 
14.84 per cent, water, 23.66 per cent, proteids, 1.63 per cent, fat, 
49.25 per cent, starch, and 7.47 per cent, woocby fiber. Peas 
contain 14.31 percent, water, 22.63 per cent, proteids, 1.72 per 
cent, fat, 53.24 per cent, starch, and 5.45 per cent, of woody fiber. 

Observe the remarkable percentage of proteids they contain. The 
legumes are less stimulating and palatable than meat, but the pro- 
teid needs of the body can be supplied by them. One of the best 
ways of serving them is in the form of a soup, as then the hull is 
entirely removed. 

CEREALS. 

Under this head are included corn, wheat, oats, barley, buck- 
wheat, and rice. The following is the analysis: 















WOODY 




WATER, 


PROTEID, 


FAT, 


SUGAR, 


STARCH, 


FIBER, 




per ct. 


per ct. 


per ct. 


per ct. 


per ct. 


per ct. 


Wheat, 


13.56 


12.42 


1.70 


1.44 


66.45 


2.66 


Rye, 


15.26 


11.43 


1.71 


.96 


66.86 


2.01 


Rarley, 


13.78 


11.16 


2.12 




65.51 


4.80 


Oats, 


12.92 


11.73 


6.04 


2.22 


53.21 


10.83 


Maize, 


13.88 


10.05 


4.76 


4.59 


62.19 


2.84 


Rice, 


14.41 


6.94 


.51 




77.61 


.08 



Too much cannot be said in favor of these grains, particularly of 



520 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

corn, wheat, and oats. The}^ contain all the elements necessary 
for the complete nutrition of the body, and in wheat they are in 
the correct proportions. Corn and oats contain an excess of fat. 
The proteids of these grains are known as gluten. Their low price 
places them within the reach of all. They are prepared as a break- 
fast food and are ground as meal and flour. 

CARBOHYDRATES. 

This third great division of foods includes the starches and 
sugars. They, together with the fats, are classed as the carbona- 
ceous foods, because they contain a large pi-oportion of the ele- 
ment carbon. The carbohydrates contain carbon, and the elements 
of water, hydrogen and oxygen, not as water, but in the same pro- 
portion as water, namely, two parts of hydrogen to one of oxygen. 
The carbonaceous foods are the great heat-producing foods, and 
just as the carbon and hydrogen of fuel unite with the oxygen of 
the air and produce heat, so the carbon and hydrogen of our food 
unite with the oxygen of the air we breathe and produce the heat 
of our bodies. Besides this office the carbohydrates are probably 
the great source of energy, and a portion of them may be depos- 
ited in the body as fat. They are of vegetable origin. 

STARCHES. 

Starch is a white, glistening powder, insoluble. in cold water, and 
when heated with water, swells, and the starch grains burst, forming 
a thick gummy solution. When cool it stiffens into a pasty mass. 
Starch is eaten chiefly in the form of arrowroot, tapioca, sago, rice, 
potatoes, cereals, and the legumes. But from whatever source de- 
rived, the chemical composition is the same. C 6 H 10 5 . The 
starches are the cheapest of the food constituents, and are there- 
fore apt to be in excess. They give the necessary bulk to our food. 

Starch, when heated to a high temperature, is changed to dex- 
trine, which does not differ from starch in chemical composition. 
Dextrine is a brittle solid and soluble in cold water. It has an 
agreeable, sweet flavor. It is produced in small quantities in the 
crust in the baking of bread and in the making of toast. In di- 
gestion the starch is changed to glucose. This is accomplished by 



FOODS 521 

the heat of the body and the action of the saliva of the mouth and 
the pancreatic juice in the intestines. 

SUGARS. 

The sugars are a more expensive form of heat-producers, and 
are used chiefly for their flavoring qualities. They are closely re- 
lated to the starches and nearly resemble them in chemical compo- 
sition. They are known by their sweet taste and are soluble in 
cold water and are capable of breaking up into alcohol and carbon 
dioxide. The} - are valuable for their preserving qualities. 

There are different varieties of sugar, but the most important to 
us are cane sugar or sucrose, and grape sugar or glucose. Su- 
crose. C,, II,, 0,,. is common sugar and is obtained from the 

l'i S2 11 ^ 

sugar cane, sugar beet, and rock maple. It is the sweetest of all 
the sugars, and is soluble in one-third of its weight of water. Su- 
crose, when boiled in contact with air, and especially if an acid be 
present, becomes changed into two kinds of sugar: dextrose C 6 H 10 O e , 
identical with glucose and levulose. C 6 H 10 6 . Thus their chem- 
ical composition is identical. Both kinds are often called glucose. 

Glucose is found in grapes and is present in the sacs of flowers; 
it is the source of honey. Glucose can he manufactured from all 
kinds of starch and from cellulose, by the action of acids. It is 
quite an easy matter to change a cotton handkerchief into more 
than its own weight of sugar. Glucose has one-third less sweet- 
ening power than sucrose, and this is the reason that when sugar 
is boiled with acid fruits it becomes less sweet. 

The changes that sugar undergoes in digestion are not fully un- 
derstood, yet it is certain that sucrose is not absorbed, as such, 
but is converted into glucose before it is assimilated. This change 
is probably effected by the acid of the gastric juice. 

FATS. 

This class of food is known to the housewife as butter, cream, 
salad oil. suet and lard. It is taken in the fat of meat, the oil of 
lUh. in eggs, in the cereals and legumes. Fats are lighter than 
water and insoluble in it, but soluble in ether. They are of animal 
and vegetable origin. In whatever form they are known they are 



522 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

composed of but three different fats, olein, stearin, and palmatin 
or margarin. 

Olein is colorless and liquid above the freezing point. It is the 
principal fat of olive oil, but is found in the more solid fats to a 
greater or less degree. The solidity and liquidity of the different 
fats depend upon the proportion of olein they contain. 

Stearin is a solid fat and remains so at quite a high tempera- 
ture. Stearin is the chief fat of mutton, and it is this peculiarity 
of stearin that causes the mouth to become coated with fat when 
eating a mutton chop. It is also a constituent of suet. Palmatin 
resembles stearin, but is liquid at a lower temperature. It is found 
in butter. 

These fats are compounds of the fatty acids, olein, stearin, and 
palmatin, with glycerine. They are called acids, not because they 
have a sour taste, but because they unite with a base as acids do. 
Glycerine, the base, is the sweet principle of oil. By further anal- 
ysis we find that the fats are compounds of carbon, hydrogen and 
oxygen. They contain a larger proportion of carbon and oxygen 
to hydrogen than the hydro-carbons do. The difference in the taste 
of the different fats is due principally to the flavoring they con- 
tain. This, almost alone, makes the difference in their prices. 

The digestibility of the different fats depends mainly upon the 
readiness with which they liquify. We might be able to digest 
beeswax if it would become liquid at the temperature of our bodies. 
Cream is the most easily digested and butter follows next. The 
fats are unaffected by the juices of the mouth and stomach. In 
the intestines they are emulsified by the admixture of the bile, and 
can then pass through a membrane into the circulation. 

Besides the value of fats as heat>producers, for which purpose 
they excel the starches and sugars, they are deposited as adipose 
tissue, aid in the lubrication of the muscles, and, without doubt, 
are a source of energy. 

YEAST. 

Yeast is a plant of the fungus growth. It is found to consist 
of numberless minute rounded cells. Each little cell consists of 
an enveloping membrane containing a liquid. They grow by bud- 



FOODS. 523 

ding and division. When they are provided with suitable food, 
moisture and warmth they grow very rapidly. Rye and grapes are 
congenial foods, and also sugar or something that can be changed 
into sugar. It is supposed that these yeast germs are present in 
the air. They are killed by the boiling and freezing temperatures. 

BREAD. 

The process by which the present bread is made light and porous 
is known as the alcoholic fermentation. Yeast is the agent used 
to accomplish this. In the mixing of the dough each little grain 
of flour is surrounded by a film of water and the yeast plants are 
scattered throughout the mass. Now, the yeast plants have food 
in the starch and the sugar ; moisture, in the water or milk, and 
warmth, as the dough should have a temperature of about 75°. 
They soon begin to grow. The starch of the flour is changed to 
glucose. 

C 6 H !o ° 5 + H 2 + ferment = C 6 H 10 6 
starch, water, glucose. 

This glucose is quickly changed into alcohol and carbon di-oxide. 
f 2 C 2 H fi alcohol, 
C 6 H 12 6 = and 

( 2 C 2 carbon, di-oxide. 
Carbon di-oxide is a gas and is commonly known as carbonic 
acid gas. It is the evolution of this gas that is set free from all 
parts of the dough which causes it to rise and increase in bulk. 
In the baking of a loaf of bread this gas is expanded and partially 
driven out by the heat. The starch cells are ruptured ; the cells 
which contain the gas are hardened ; the yeast plant is killed ; the 
alcohol is evaporated, and some of the starch of the crust, bein°- 
heated to a higher temperature, is changed to dextrine. The tem- 
perature of the inside of the loaf does not exceed 212°. 



A YEAR'S MENU. 

Since it is necessary that we eat, that which we eat should first 
be prepared, and before it can be prepared must be thought of; we 
should use wisdom and forethought, and make the matter as sim- 
ple, healthful, and pleasant as possible. 

If the work for the day is well planned, there need be no care 
for the next morning. Mush from the cracked and rolled cereals, 
with cream, is always healthful and agreeable, and if a roast, joint, 
fish, or meat pie was served for dinner the day before, there is al- 
ways cold meat or fish for toasting or smothering in cream, and 
vegetables that may be heated in various delicate ways. If one 
has an iron gem pan and puts it on to heat as soon as in the kitchen, 
it takes but a moment to stir up a few gems of different kinds, or 
if in great haste, to toast bread, made ready the night before, or fry 
it in butter. Pickles in some form should be served with meat or 
fish, and may be easily kept on hand, if one is particular to pickle 
what is convenient in the fail*and to cut the cauliflower, boiled 
beets, carrots, etc. , into vinegar as soon as dinner is over. 

Usually it is best to have a supply of hard gingerbread, gin- 
ger snaps, cookies, doughnuts, and fruit on hand, for a variety. 
Fruit should be used freely all the year round, and it is particu- 
larly desirable as a first course for breakfast. Always serve coffee, 
tea, cereal drinks, chocolate, cocoa, milk, lemonade, or cold water, 
as best meets the family needs ; especially should milk and cream 
be abundant if they can be procured in a pure state. In econo- 
mising, never shorten the supply of milk, as nothing is so health- 
ful or so cheap. Eggs in various forms, are always suitable for 
breakfast, as are pancakes and fritters. Salads ought to be eaten 
at least three times a week. 

The suppers given here may be served as lunches if it is con- 
venient to have a late dinner. The dinner may be made more 
elaborate by adding fancy dishes and confections, or plainer, by 



A YEAR'S MENU. i 

using fewer vegetables, and fruit as a dessert. The suppers a 
may have additions of fruit, cake, creams, and ices. 

Relishes, of various kinds, should be found on the sideboa 
with the cold water, and if fish is to served, in any form, lem< 
ought to be at hand. 

The accompanying bill of fare may be served in courses whi 
if one has help, is the better way. Set the vegetables in cove 
dishes on the table, serve the soup in plates, removing them wl 
all are ready to have the fish or meat served. The dessert shoi 
be brought on after the table is cleared, and crumbs brushed ( 
but if mistress and maid are combined in one woman, it may sta 
on the sideboard during the first part of the dinner. 

Soups followed by heavy meats and rich fish should be sim] 
and clear, not more then half a pint to the plate, and should ] 
be. offered a second time. Soup made once a week, and cam 
in self-sealing cans, while hot, ma}' be used, a can at a time, w 
vermicelli, tomatoes, vegetables, macaroni, or other articles, a 
is easily and quickly made. A little clear soup, the first thii 
warms the stomach and prepares it to receive more substanl 
food. Good butter and bread should be ready for every me 
and cheese may be served at dessert with apple or mince pie, br« 
and butter, or for supper. It gives a relish to doughnuts, ging 
bread, and fresh cookies. For the sake of brevity, all beverag 
bread and butter, and relishes of various kinds are omitted. 

The following menu is for a year, beginning with Thursds 
This can be made to suit the year, and ' < May good digestion w 
on appetite, and health on both." 

JANUARY. 

New Year's Day. Breakfast.— Rolled rye, cream, broiled steak, 
tato cakes, corn-meal gems, baked sweet apples. Dinner. — Tomato soi 
roast turkey, mashed potatoes, mashed turnips, onions, celery, cranbei 
sauce; plum pudding, hard sauce, mixed fruits, raisins, confectione; 
Supper. — Bread, brown and white, cold meat, sponge cake, honey. 

2. Breakfast.— Oatmeal, cream, cold sliced turkey, toasted bro 1 
bread, celery, fruit. Dinner.— Pot an feu, boiled mackerel, steam 
potatoes, currant jelly, mashed turnips; mince pie, cheese, nuts. Si 
per. — Hot biscuits, sardines, fig-Cftke, cookies, canned peaches, crea 

3. Breakfast. — California breakfast food, cream, wheat gems, fri 
potatoes, shredded fish in cream. Dinner. — Oyster soup, cold turk( 
broiled beefsteak, baked potatoes, mashed squash, cranberry saui 



526' HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

brown bread; apple pie, cheese. Supper. — Hot biscuit, head-cheese, 
canned peaches, cream, blancmange, cake. 

4. Sunday. Breakfast. — Cerealineflakes,crea.ii, Boston baked beans, 
corn-meal gems, apples, jelly. Dinnp;r. — Turkey soup, roast beef, 
mashed potatoes, onions, celery, cra,nberry sauce ; pumpkin pie, confec- 
tionery. Supper. — Rolls, gingerbread, sliced beef, canned raspberries, 
layer cake. 

5. Breakfast. — Oatmeal, cream, potato cakes, ham and eggs, toasted 
rusks, fruit. Dinner. — Roast beef in brown gravy, tomato sauce, baked 
sweet potatoes, corn, brown bread ; mince pie. Supper. — Cream toast, 
hot biscuit, apple sauce, cake, cookies. 

6. Breakfast. — California breakfast food, cream, brown buttered 
toast, potato cakes, doughnuts, grape jelly. Dinner.— Celery soup, 
fricasseed chicken on brown toast, mashed potatoes, squash, onions, cel- 
ery, hot biscuit, currant jelly; boiled custard, grapes. Supper. — Biscuit, 
sliced ham, canned strawberries, cake. 

7. Breakfast. — Creamed potatoes, graham crackers, buckwheat cakes, 
maple syrup, toasted chicken, plum jelly. Dinner. — Julienne soup, 
baked sparerib, steamed potatoes, onions, cabbage salad, Brown Betty; 
oranges. Supper. — Brown toast, potato balls, head-cheese, blanc mange, 
whipped cream. 

8. Breakfast. — Rolled wheat, cream, corn-meal gems, fried potatoes, 
broiled steak. Dinner. — Vermicelli soup, veal pie, mashed turnips, sal- 
sify, celery, currant jelly; pumpkin pie. Supper. — Cold tongue, hot 
biscuit, cheese, cake, preserved raspberries. 

9. Breakfast.— Omelet, fruit, pancakes, whipped cream, doughnuts, 
cheese. Dinner. — Soup, baked salmon, creamed potatoes, spiced cur- 
rants, celery, stewed tomatoes;^pple pie, nuts. Supper. — Brown toast, 
stuffed eggs, blueberry cake, cookies. 

10. Breakfast. — Rolled wheat, cream gems, broiled steak, potato 
cakes, grape jelly. Dinner. — Pea soup, roast venison, mashed potatoes, 
squash, corn, cranberry sauce, hot biscuit; lemon pie, bananas, oranges. 
Supper. — Canned-raspberry shortcake, cold tongue, celery, angel cake. 

11. Sunday. Breakfast. — Fried sausage, sweet potato cakes, corn 
cakes, apple sauce. Dinner. — Cold baked sparerib, can-dried sweet po- 
tatoes, cold slaw; mince pie, citron custards, oranges, cocoanut layer 
cake. Supper. — Cold biscuits, cold meat, cocoanut layer cake, whipped 
cream. 

12. Breakfast. — Pancakes, maple syrup, fried potatoes, venison 
steak, celery. Dinner. — White soup, baked trout, baked potatoes, stewed 
tomatoes, corn ; blueberry pie, apples. Supper. — Butter toast, dried 
beef, hot biscuit, honey. 

13. Breakfast. — Oatmeal, cream, graham gems, creamed potatoes, 
fish in brown gravy, olives. Dinner. — Macaroni soup, game pie, baked 
potatoes, stewed onions, celery, currant jelly; baked Indian pudding, 
whipped cream, oranges. Supper.— Hot biscuit, preserved strawberries, 
cold game pie, cheese, sponge cake. 

14. Breakfast. — Rolled wheat, cream, head-cheese, fried potatoes, 
corn-meal gems, bananas. Dinner. — Oyster soup, old-fashioned boiled 
dinner; pumpkin pie, apples. Suppek. — Brown bread, honey, cheese, 
ginger snaps. 

15. Breakfast. — California breakfast food, cream, vegetable hash, 
cold corned beef, jelly. Dinner. — Tomato soup, roast duck, browned 
potatoes, stewed onions, turnips, currant jelly; mince pie, apples. Sup- 



A YEAR'S MENU. 527 

per. — Cold duck, spiced currants, Lyonnaise potatoes, pop-overs, dam- 
sons, nut cake. 

16. Breakfast. — Cerealine flakes, cream, corn-meal gems, head-cheese, 
doughnuts. Dinner. — Soup, codfish, boiled potatoes, mashed turnips, 
stewed tomatoes, cranberry sauce; boiled rice, fruit. Supper. — Cream 
toast, baked apples, layer cake, cookies. 

17. Breakfast. — Oatmeal, cream, fish hash, olives, boiled eggs. Din- 
ner. — Soup, broiled beefsteak, scalloped oysters, baked potatoes, spiced 
peaches; custard pie. Supper. — Brown and white bread, hard ginger- 
bread, apple sauce, celery. 

18. Sunday. Breakfast.— Brown bread, baked beans, baked apples, 
ginger snaps. Dinner. — Soup, salmon salad, baked potatoes, grape 
jelly, brown bread; cocoanut pie, mixed fruits. Supper. — Brown bread, 
cold meat, raspberry jam, cake. ' 

19. Breakfast. — Rolled rye, cream, corn dodgers, head-cheese, dough- 
nuts. Dinner. — Bean soup, beef stew with dumplings, brown bread, 
canned currants ; pumpkin pie, fruit. Supper. — Canned-strawberry 
shortcake, cheese, brown toast, cookies. 

20. Breakfast. — Head-cheese, wheat gems, gingerbread, canned 
currants. Dinner. — Roast pork, baked potatoes, squash, salsify, apple 
sauce; Brown Betty, oranges. Supper.— Cold meat, Saratoga chips, 
hot biscuit, honey, plain cake. 

31. Breakfast. — Oatmeal, cream, raw oysters, fried potatoes, ginger- 
snaps. Dinner. — Oyster soup, roast pork in brown gravy, chopped cab- 
bage cooked in milk, onions, spiced currants; apple pie. Supper. — But- 
ter toast, baked apples, bread, sponge cake. 

22. Breakfast. — Oatmeal, cream, omelet,corn-meal gems, doughnuts. 
Dinner. — Tomato soup, chicken pie, cabbage, squash, cranberry sauce; 
Troy pudding, fruit. Supper. — Sliced ham, hot biscuit, canned peaches, 
cream, layer cake. 

23. Breakfast. — Potato cakes, boiled mackerel, graham gems, plum 
jelly. Dinner. — Vegetable soup, boiled fresh cod, boiled beets, cabbage, 
celery, boiled potatoes, currant jelly; lemon pie, oranges. Supper. — 
Cream toast, raw oysters, cheese, sliced bananas, cream, cake. 

24. Breakfast. — Cracked wheat, cream, toasted cod, creamed pota- 
toes, corn-meal gems, snaps. Dinner. — Soup, corned beef, vegetables, 
lettuce salad, fresh doughnuts; mince turnovers, fruit. Supper. —Cold 
meat, Saratoga chips, hot brown bread, honey, cheese. 

25. Sunday. Breakfast. — Rolled wheat, baked sweet apples, cream, 
toasted brown bread, head-cheese. Dinner.— Macaroni soup, cold coined 
beef, hot vegetables in cream and butter, fried parsnips; mince pie, con- 
fections. Supper. — Cold meat, Saratoga chips, toast, canned strawber- 
ries, angel cake. 

26. Breakfast. — Oatmeal, cream, buckwheat cakes, maple syrup, 
head-cheese, crackers, baked apples. DINNER. — Baked beans, Boston 
brown bread, scalloped oysters, cold slaw; pumpkin pic, fruit. Si'im-ki:. 
— Oyster salad, hot biscuit, blackberry jam, cheese, layer cake 

27. Breakfast. — Corn-meal gems, baked beans, jam fritters, cream; 
Dinner. — Vermicelli soup, haunch of venison, mashed turnips, browned 
potatoes, onions, celery; rice pudding. Supper. — Cold meat, Saratoga 
chips, biscuit, grape sauce, blancmange, cream. 

28. Breakfast. — Rolled rye, cream, graham gems, cold venison, pota- 
toes In brown gravy, grapes. DINNER. — Vegetable sou]), venison slew 
with dumplings, cranberry sauce, cold meat dressing; mince pio. Si ;•- 



528 1 [< >USEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

per. — Sliced ham, brown toast, cranberry tarts, tea cake, whipped 
cream. 

29. Breakfast. — California breakfast food, cream, omelet, fruit frit- 
ters, sauce. Dinner. — Oyster soup, roast turkey, onions, mashed pota- 
toes, squash, cranberry sauce; plum pudding, mixed nuts, raisins, and 
candies. Suiter. — Cold turkey, buttered toast, cold sliced pudding, 
plain cake. 

30. Breakfast. — Cracked wheat, cream, potato cakes, oyster patties, 
cranberry jelly. Dinner. — Tomato soup, baked white-fish, mashed po- 
tatoes, mashed turnips, boiled beets, currant jelly, fruit pudding. Sup- 
per. — Toasted white fish, fried potatoes, muffins, hotapple sauce, cookies. 

31. Breakfast. — Oatmeal, cream, corn-meal pancakes, syrup, head- 
cheese. Dinner. — Soup, roast beef, baked potatoes, cabbage boiled in 
milk, mashed turnips, spiced grapes : apple dumpling, cream sauce, fruit. 
Supper. — Hot brown bread, raw oysters, raspberry-jam shortcake, 
cream. 

FEBRUARY. 

1. Sunday. Breakfast. — California breakfast food, cream, Boston 
brown bread, codfish balls, olives. Dinner. — Oyster soup, cold roast 
beef, baked sweet potatoes, corn, celery; apple pie. Supper. — Toast, 
brown bread, grape jelly, cake. 

8. Breakfast.— Johnny cake, roast beef and potatoes warmed in 
gravy, baked apples and cream. Dinner. — Soup, veal cutlets breaded, 
currant jelly, baked squash, stewed tomatoes, boiled potatoes, celery; 
pumpkin pie. Supper — Cold ham, baking powder biscuit, baked pota- 
toes, cabbage salad, plum jelly, cake. 

3. Breakfast. — Fried mush, mutton chops, creamed potatoes, apple 
sauce. Dinner. — White soup, roast veal, stuffed, currant jelly, string 
beans, creamed turnips, browned potatoes; squash pie. Supper. — Fried 
potatoes, cold veal, light biscuit, jejly, hot sweet buns. 

4. Breakfast. — Oatmeal. cream, baked apples, pop-overs, Lyonnaise 
potatoes, ham omelet. Dinner. — White soup with rice, boiled mutton, 
currant jelly, peas, macaroni and cheese, baked sweet potatoes; lemon 
pie. Supper.— Fried sweet potatoes, minced veal on toast, rusk, boiled 
custard, sweet biscuits. 

5. Breakfast. — Cracked wheat, cream, buckwheat cakes with maple 
syrup, baked potatoes, sausage, apple sauce. Dinner. — Tomato soup, 
roast duck, currant jelly, celery, onions, squash, cabbage salad, mashed 
potatoes: custard pie. Supper. — Cold mutton, potato balls, celery 
salad, muffins, honey. 

6. Breakfast. — California breakfast food, cream, Johnny cake,broiled 
mackerel, potato balls, baked apples. Dinner. — Boiled cod, egg sauce, 
salmi of duck, celery, scalloped tomatoes, mashed turnips, boiled pota- 
toes: apple meringue. Supper. —Cream toast, baked eggs, French po- 
tatoes, whipped cream, sponge cake. 

7. Breakfast. — Rolled oats, cream, bananas, potato croquettes, cold 
mutton, graham gems. Dinner. — Celery soup, chicken pie, cranberry 
sauce, peas, mashed potatoes, celeryjnriee pudding, wafers. Supper. — 
Fried oysters, Saratoga potatoes, celery mayonnaise, rolls, canned fruit, 
white cake. 

8. Sunday. Breakfast. — Wheat granules, cream, broiled steak, po- 
tato cakes, rye bread, doughnuts. Dinner. — Turkey, giblet gravy, 
cranberry sauce, scalloped oysters, sweet potatoes, cauliflower, celery; 



A YEAR'S MENU. 529 

Hamburg cream, nuts, raisins. Supper. — Chicken salad, graham bread, 
waters, cheese. 

9. Breakfast. — Corn-meal gems, pork chops, baked potatoes, fried 
apples. Dinner. — Tomato cream soup, turkey, cranberry sauce, mashed 
potatoes, corn, celery; mince pie, cheese. Suppeb. — Creamed oysters on 
toast, potato fritters, muffins, canned cherries, chocolate cake. 

10. Breakfast. — Grits, cream, turkey hash, potato balls, graham 
gems, baked apples. Dinner. — Soup, roast beef, browned potatoes, 
Yorkshire pudding, onions, celery; apple tapioca. Suppeb. — Cold roast 
beef, potato salad, Parker House rolls, velvet cream, delicate cake. 

1 1. Breakfast. — Baked apples,cream, buckwheat cakes, maple syrup, 
breakfast sausage, rye bread. Dinner. — Vegetable soup, roast spare- 
rib, apple sauce, cold slaw, squash, corn, boiled potatoes, celery; apple 
pie, cheese. Supper. — Cold sparerib, baked sweet potatoes, plum jelly, 
buttered toast, sweet biscuit. 

12. Breakfast. — Cerealine flakes, cream, roast beef hash, brown 
toa^t, doughnuts. Dinner. — Chicken stew with dumplings, scalloped 
tomatoes, onions, creamed rice, celery, baked potatoes; raspberry-jam 
shortcake. Suppeb. — Cold tongue, rice fritters, jelly, buttermilk bis- 
cuit, Dixie cream puffs. 

13. Breakfast. — California breakfast food, cream, plain omelet, fried 
potatoes, gems. Dinner. — Celery soup, boiled halibut, oyster sauce, 
turnips, corn, boiled potatoes; fruit pie, nuts, raisins. Suppeb. — Chicken 
salad, fried sweet potatoes, baking powder biscuit, honey, jelly cake. 

14. Breakfast.— Oatmeal, cream, potato cakes, fish omelet, Johnny 
cake. Dinner. — Beef soup, veal cutlets breaded, stewed tomatoes, sal- 
sify, baked potatoes, celery, plum butter; squash pie, fruit. Supper. — 
Pork tenderloins, Lyonnaise potatoes, spiced peaches, hot rolls, cake, 
custard. 

15. Sunday. Breakfast. — Rolled oats, cream, Boston brown bread, 
baked beans, sour apple jelly. Dinner. — Oyster soup, fried chicken on 
toast, cream gravy, cranberry sauce, peas, sweet potatoes, celery; char- 
lotte russe, confections. Supper. — Cream brown toast, toasted cheese, 
sliced peaches, chocolate cake. 

16. Bheakfast. — Cracked wheat, cream, broiled steak, hashed pota- 
toes, gems. Dinner. — Onion soup, baked beans, potatoes, beets, brown 
bread; apple pie, cheese. Supper. — Chicken hash, buttered toast, jelly, 
rice fritters, lemon sauce. 

17. Breakfast. — Fried mush, creamed potatoes, pork chops, apple 
sauce. Dinner. Tea soup, boiled mutton, caper sauce, grape jelly, 
steamed rice, tomatoes, boiled potatoes, celery; cherry pie. Suppeb. 
Meat croquettes, celery salad, Saratoga chips, pop-overs, stewed prunes, 
sponge cake. 

18. Breakfast. — Oatmeal, cream, mutton chops, fried potatoes, waf- 
fles. Dinner. — Soup, broiled steak, tomato sauce, baked potatoes, on- 
ions, cabbage salad; mince pie. Suffer. — Cold mutton, potato cro- 
quettes, toast, jelly, baked apples, cream, plain cake. 

1*J. Breakfast. — Wheat granules, cream, buckwheat cakes, maple 
syrup, sausage, potatoes. Dinner. — Soup, boiled dinner with vegeta- 
bles, brown bread; apple tarts. Supper. — Minced mutton, brown toast, 
creamed potatoes, Olives, prune whip. 

L'O. Breakfast.— (Irits, cream, broiled mackerel, sweet potatoes, 
Johnny cake. Dinner.— Tomato soup, baked trout, stuffed, horse-radish 
sauce, potatoes, salsify, lima beans; bird's-nesl pudding, fruit. Sup- 



530 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

per. — Shredded fish with cream, on toast, French fried potatoes, cold 
slaw, fruit fritters. 

p 21. Breakfast. — Rolled wheat, cream, corned beef and vegetable 
hash, rye gems. Dinner. — Oxtail soup, veal potpie, baked beets, brown 
potatoes, celery, apple dowdy, cream. Supper. — Rolls, minced veal on 
toast, jellied apples, cream puffs. 

22. Sunday. Breakfast. — Cerealine flakes, cream, baked apples, 
pork tenderloins, sweet potatoes, Zimmetkuche. Dinner. — Raw oys- 
ters, roast turkey, chestnut stuffing, barberry jelly, onions, mashed po- 
tatoes, celery; birthday cake, whipped cream, fruit. Supper. — Welsh 
rarebit, celery mayonnaise, Maryland biscuit, Washington pie. 

23. Breakfast. — Oatmeal, cream, veal hash, buttermilk biscuit, ap- 
ple sauce. Dinner. — Soup, scalloped turkey, cranberry jelly, fried 
parsnips, celery salad, sweet potatoes; cottage pudding. Supper. — 
Chipped beef in cream, baked potatoes, buttered toast, honey, wafers. 

24. Breakfast. — Fried oatmeal, maple syrup, Hamburg beefsteak, 
creamed potatoes, spiced apples. Dinner. — Turkey soup, oyster pie, 
cranberry sauce, corn souffle, cabbage mayonnaise, mashed potatoes; 
lemon fritters with sauce, nuts, raisins. Supper. — Minced turkey on 
toast, sweet potatoes, tea rolls, barberry jelly, custard cake. 

25. Breakfast. — California breakfast food, cream, gems, turkey hash, 
potato cakes. Dinner.— Mulligatawney soup, roast beef, Yorkshire pud- 
ding, browned potatoes, onions, beets, jelly; apple tapioca. Supper. — 
Veal cheese, fried potatoes, toast, canned fruit, plain cake. 

26. Breakfast. — Oatmeal, cream, Sally Lunn, cold roast beef, baked 
potatoes. Dinner. — Chicken stew with dumplings, baked potatoes, mac- 
aroni and cheese, celery salad; apple pie, cheese. Supper. — Roast beef 
hash, graham gems, lettuce mayonnaise, Scotch currant bannock. 

27. Breakfast. — Fried oatmeal, coffee cake, creamed codfish, baked 
potatoes, prunes. Dinner. — Vegetable soup, boiled salmon, steamed 
rice, boiled potatoes, creamed cabbage, celery; cottage pudding. Sup- 
per. — Broiled smoked halihut, potato souffle, cold slaw, pop-overs, rasp- 
berry jam, sweet biscuits. 

28. Breakfast. — Grits, cream, potato nuts, chicken with brown 
gravy, toasted gems, fruit. Dinner. — Macaroni soup, boiled mutton, 
oyster sauce, rice, tomatoes, boiled potatoes, celery salad ; lemon pie. 
Supper. — Salmon salad, Saratoga potatoes, rolls, baked apples, cream, 
sponge cake. 

29. Sunday. Breakfast. — Wheat granules, cream, brown bread, cod- 
fish balls, spiced peaches. Dinner. — Turkey, with oyster dressing, 
cranberry jelly, mashed potatoes, corn, scalloped tomatoes, celery; vel- 
vet cream, assorted cake, confections. Supper. — Cold mutton, brown 
toast, cream puffs, canned fruit. 

MARCH. 

1. Breakfast. — Cream toast, chicken browned in butter, fried pota- 
toes, canned-blackberry tarts. Dinner. — Soup, ham and eggs, fried ap- 
ples, cold slaw; Brown Betty, cream, apples. Supper. — Chipped beef 
with cream, Parker House rolls, canned fruit, cheese. 

2. Breakfast. — Ham omelet, rolled wheat, cream, fruit fritters. 
Dinner. — Soup, baked chickens, mashed potatoes, mashed turnips, cab- 
bage, cranberry sauce; peach pie, cream. Supper. — Butter toast, cold 
meat, apple sauce, jelly cake, whipped cream. 

3. Breakfast.— Rolled rye, breakfast saus'ages, graham gems, baked 



A YEAR'S MENU. 531 

apples. Dinner. — Old-fashioned boiled dinner, vegetables, spiced cur- 
rants; custard pie. Supper. — Hot biscuit, canned strawberries, sliced 
corned beef, cheese, layer cake. 

4. Breakfast. — Grits, cream, vegetable hash, cold beef, Sally Lunn, 
applet. Dinner. — Soup, roast duck, mashed potatoes, mashed turnips, 
bnttered beets, apple sauce; currant pudding, sweet sauce. Supper. — 
Brown toast, cold duck, baked sweet apples, cream, cookies, crullers. 

5. Breakfast. — Oatmeal, fried duck, browned potatoes, browned tur- 
nips, doughnuts, cheese. Dinner. — Onion soup, baked pickerel, steamed 
potatoes, tomatoes, currants; Dird's-nest pudding, fruit. Supper. — 
Raised rolls, toasted pickerel, Saratoga chips, baked apples, sponge cake. 

6. Breakfast. — Cerealine flakes, pop-overs, shredded pickerel in 
cream, potato cakes, hard gingerbread. Dinner. — Vegetable soup, 
roast beef, plum jelly, mashed potatoes, onions, canned lima beans; ap- 
ple dumplings, cream, mixed fruit. Supper. — Light rolls, ham omelet, 
honey, rolled jelly cake. 

7. Sunday. Breakfast. — Cracked wheat, brown bread, Boston baked 
beans, fruit. Dinner. — Soup, cold boiled ham, poached eggs, celery, 
corn, tomatoes; blueberry pie, fruit. Supper. — Milk toast, cold roast 
beef, quince jelly, cookies. 

8. Breakfast. — Rolled rye, toasted brown bread, corn fritters, sliced 
ham. Dinner. — Soup, pork chops, baked potatoes, tomatoes, corn; ap- 
ple pie. Supper. — Minced beef on toast, Lyonnaise potatoes, peaches, 
cream, chocolate cake. 

9. Breakfast. — California breakfast food, wheat gems, eggs, blue- 
berries. Dinner. — Soup, chicken pie, baked potatoes, corn, cranberry 
sauce; lemon pie, fruit. Supper. — Waffles, scalloped oysters, stewed 
fruit, cocoanut cake. 

10. Breakfast. — Oatmeal, cream, fried chicken on toast, Saratoga 
chips, doughnuts. Dinner.— Tomato soup, stuffed breast of veal, 
browned sweet potatoes, lobster salad, mashed turnips; tapioca pud- 
ding, cream. Supper. — Potato croquettes, cold veal, raised biscuit, 
canned fruit, cup cake. 

11. Breakfast. — Hominy, crumpets, potato balls, # cookies, fruit. 
Dinner. — White soup, roast turkey, mashed potatoes, corn, onions, scal- 
loped oysters, cranberry sauce; mince pie. Supper. — Cream biscuit, cold 
turkey, cranberry tarts, apricots, cake. 

12. Breakfast. — Rolled wheat, cream, shredded turkey in brown 
gravy, brown toast. Dinner. — Vermicelli soup, stuffed trout, baked, 
browned potatoes, bread sauce, salsify, parsnips, spiced currants; canned- 
cherry pie. Supper. — Fancy biscuit, shredded trout in cream on toast, 
celery, layer cake. 

13. Breakfast. — Rolled rye, cream, corn meal gems, eggs, potato- 
cakes, fried parsnips, honey. Dinner. — Oxtail soup, corned beef, boiled 
potatoes, beets, cabbage, onions, canned currants: apple pie. Suppeb. 
— Biscuit, cold veal, cheese, preserved cherries, cream, cake. 

14. Sunday. Breakfast. — Rolled wheat, cream, cabbage browned, 
corned beef hash, toast, currants. Dinner. — Oyster stew, beefsteak, 
potatoes ; mince pie. Supper. — Cold beef, creamed potatoes, tea rolls, 
canned peaches, cream, layer cake. 

15. Breakfast. — Oatmeal, cream, omelet, fruit fritters, Saratoga 
chips, gems. Dinner. — clam chowder^ scalloped tomatoes, celery, bar- 
berry jelly; rhubarb pudding with cream. SUPPER. — Hot biscuit, 
chipped beef, baked apples, celery, whipped-cream cake. 

16. Breakfast. — Cracked wheat, cream, browned clam chowder on 



532 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

toast, celery, toasted crackers, apricots. Dinner. — Beef soup, fricasseed 
chicken, dumplings, baked potatoes, stewed onions, celery, currant jelly; 
rolled fruit pudding. Supper. — Chicken salad, Parker House rolls, cel- 
ery, sweet biscuit, cheese. 

17. Breakfast. — Oatmeal, cream, broiled mackerel, fried potatoes, 
flour gems, spiced currants, doughnuts. Dinner. — Scalloped oysters, 
baked sturgeon, stuffed, bread sauce, macaroni, browned potatoes, lima 
beans, cranberry sauce; lemon pie. Supper. — Sweet spiced rolls, oyster 
fritters, peach layer cake, whipped cream. 

18. Breakfast.— Johnny cake, shredded sturgeon browned in butter, 
toasted crackers, plum jelly. Dinner. — Fish stew, ham and eggs, suc- 
cotash, tomatoes, potatoes, apple sauce ; cherry pie. Supper. — Hot 
biscuit, cabbage salad, boiled eggs, raspberry jam, angel cake. 

19. Breakfast. — Oatmeal, cream, graham gems, fish omelet, oranges. 
Dinner. — Onion soup, codfish, boiled potatoes, fried parsnips, celery, 
spiced currants; apple dumpling, fruit. Supper. — Sliced ham, cream 
toast, baked sweet apples, cheese, jelly cake. 

20. Breakfast. — Rolled rye, cream, corn-meal gems, pork chops, 
potatoes, doughnuts. Dinner. — Scalloped oysters, pork roast with sage, 
browned potatoes, cabbage salad, succotash, apple sauce ; cherry pie. 
Supper. — Sweet biscuit, oyster fritters, cranberry tarts, celery, sage 
cheese. 

21. Sunday. Breakfast. — Plain drop cakes, corn fritters browned, 
lima beans, celery, raspberry jam. Dinner. — Cold pork, baked potatoes, 
salsify, apple sauce; lemon pie. Supper. — -Sweet biscuit, sliced ham, 
Saratoga chips, blancmange, cream. 

22. Breakfast. — California breakfast food, ham omelet, fried pota- 
toes, baked apples. Dinner. — Brown soup, pork chops, baked potatoes, 
onions, applesauce; rice pudding. Supper. —Butter toast, lobster salad, 
celery, honey, cake. 

23. Breakfast. — Dry toast, broiled codfish, potato cakes, grape jelly, 
doughnuts. Dinner. — Brown stew, chicken pie, baked sweet potatoes, 
tomatoes, corn, celery, jelly ; blueberry roll, white sauce, fruit. Supper. 
— Canned-strawjaerry shortcake, whipped cream, cheese, cookies. 

24. Breakfast. — Johnny cake, fried chicken, browned potatoes, 
baked apples, cream. Dinner. — Soup, minced chicken in gravy on toast, 
baked potatoes, succotash, scalloped tomatoes ; mince pie, fruit. Sup- 
per. — Smoked halibut, tomato fritters, baked custard, delicate cake. 

25. Breakfast. — Cerealine flakes, cream, wheaten gems, eggs on 
toast. Dinner. — Soup, roast beef, mashed potatoes, corn, macaroni and 
cheese, cranberry sauce; mince pie. Supper. — Ham sandwiches, cel- 
ery mayonnaise, prune whip, cake. 

26. Breakfast. — Rolled wheat, cream, minced beef browned in but- 
ter, toast, Saratoga chips, fruit. Dinner. — Beef soup, boiled salmon, 
egg sauce, stewed tomatoes, corn, lima beans, currant, jam; apple pie: 
Supper. — Cream biscuit, smoked tongue, Saratoga chips, canned peaches, 
cream, cake. 

27. Breakfast. — Oatmeal mush, cream, Johnny cake, honey, fish 
cakes. Dinner. — Soup, roast beef in brown gravy, baked potatoes, 
creamed cabbage, onions, plum jelly ; mince pie. Supper. — Boston 
baked beans, brown bread, honey, baked apples, cream. 

28. Sunday. Breakfast. — Baked beans, brown bread, apple fritters, 
sauce, doughnuts. Dinner. — Soup, veal cutlets, baked potatoes, celery, 
corn, cranberry jelly; pumpkin pie. Supper. — Biscuit, salmon salad, 
canned strawberries, spiced gingerbread. 



A YEAR'S MENU. 533 

29. Breakfast. — Oatmeal, pancakes, syrup, creamed potatoes, cold 
beef. Dinner. — Soup, fried lake trout, baked potatoes, corn, lima 
beans, apple sauce ; baked apple. Supper. — Cold tongue, potato hash, 
apple turnovers, cream, cinnamon buns. 

30. Breakfast. — Hominy, cream, omelet, potato balls, crullers. Din- 
ner. — Soup, veal pie, browned potatoes, scalloped oysters, parsnips, 
spiced currants ; cottage pudding. Supper. — Parker House rolls, cold 
tongue, Saratoga chips, canned fruit, cake. 

31. Breakfast. — Rolled rye, cream, toasted rolls, broiled mackerel, 
fried potatoes, jelly. Dinner. — Soup, leg of mutton, boiled potatoes, 
corn, steamed rice, currant jelly ; custard pie, fruit. Supper. — Butter 
toast, succotash, poiato salad, cake. 

APRIL. 

1. Breakfast. — Corn-meal gems, buttered toast, potato cakes, 
browned liver in gravy, cookies. Dinner. — White soup, mutton with 
caper sauce, spinach, potatoes, lettuce salad ; apple snow. Supper. — 
Rice croquettes, ramakin toast, canned fruit, sponge cake. 

2. Breakfast. — Toasted biscuit, broiled cod, fried potatoes, quince 
jelly. Dinner. — Soup, baked shad, baked potatoes, stewed tomatoes, 
onions; apple pie", fruit. Supper. — Sardine sandwiches, potato salad, 
buns, orange sauce, sponge cake. 

3. Breakfast. — Frumenty, cream, muffins, sliced mutton, Saratoga 
chips, gingerbread. Dinner. — Soup, ham and eggs, plum butter, baked 
potatoes, cabbage ; apple tapioca, cream. Supper. — Minced ham sand- 
wiches, brown bread, stewed prunes, lemon cake. 

4. Sunday. Breakfast. — Rolled rye, cream, meat toast, doughnuts, 
oranges. Dinner. — Boston baked beans, brown bread, apple sauce, cold 
slaw, buttered beets; custard pie. Supper. — Bread and milk, cheese 
sandwiches, lemon tarts. 

5. Breakfast. — Cracked wheat, cream, toasted brown bread, baked 
beans, lettuce, cookies. Dinner. — Tomato soup, broiled ham, poached 
eggs, boiled potatoes, fried parsnips, celery; apple pic, fruit. Supper. 
— Muffins, creamed potatoes, beefsteak, tapioca cream, cake. 

6. Breakfast. — Hominy, cream, toasted muffins, meat cakes, fried 
potatoes, gingerbread. Dinner. — Soup, baked chickens, bread sauce, 
browned potatoes, onions, canned currants ; cranberry pie. Suppeb. 
— Fried chicken, potato balls, raised biscuit, canned raspberries, cake. 

7. Breakfast. — Rolled wheat, cream, corn-meal gems, apple butter, 
boiled smoked herring, baked potatoes. Dinner. — Vermicelli soup, 
chicken in brown gravy on toast, lettuce salad, steamed potatoes, corn, 
scalloped tomatoes ; canned-pumpkin pie. Supper. — Hot biscuit, oys- 
ter patties, currant jelly, Saratoga chips, layer cake. 

8. Breakfast. — Pancakes, maple syrup, boiled eggs, fried potatoes, 
doughnuts. Dinner. — Mutton soup, beefsteak, baked potatoes, fried 
parsnips, lima beans; orange pudding, bananas. Supper. — Brown 
toast, tongue, banana fritters, lemon sauce. 

9. Breakfast. — Rolled rye, cream, creamed codfish, baked potatoes, 
hot-cross buns. Dinner. — Tomato soup, boiled salmon, mashed pota- 
toes, succotash; fruit pudding. Supper. — Baked eggs, scalloped pota- 
toes, peaches in jelly, Banbury cake. ^ 

10. Breakfast. — Graham gems, codfish balls, cold fruit pudding, 
cream. Dinner. — Pot au feu, boiled ham, steamed potatoes, cabbage, 



534 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

parsnips; baked Indian pudding, cream. Supper. — Potato croquettes, 
frizzled beef, currant jam, bot rolls, cakes. 

11. Sunday. Breakfast. — Boston baked beans, brown bread, pickled 
beets and parsnips, spiced plums. Dinner. — Soup, Boston baked beans, 
brown bread, scalloped tomatoes ; lemon pie, confections. Supper. — 
Cream toast, apricot tapioca, crullers. 

12. Breakfast. — Cracked wheat, cream, beefsteak, baked potatoes, 
fruit. Dinner. — Soup, mutton chops, mashed potatoes, stewed toma- 
toes, peas ; apple shortcake. Supper. — Rolls, Welsh rarebit, spiced ap- 
ples, chocolate blancmange, cream. 

13. Breakfast.— Oatmeal, cream, scrambled toast, fruit fritters. 
Dinner. — Soup, fillet of veal with dressing, browned potatoes, onions, 
macaroni, tomato sauce, jelly ; peach roll, sauce. Supper. — Lettuce 
salad, cold veal, graham bread, apple custard, cup cake. 

14. Breakfast. — Cracked wheat, cream, veal fritters, Lyonnaise po- 
tatoes, fruit. Dinner. — Soup, fricasseed chicken, brown toast, sweet 
potatoes, tomatoes, lima beans, cranberry sauce ; canned-currant pie. 
Supper. — Hot biscuit, toasted chicken, succotash, canned fruit, cake. 

15. Breakfast. — Cerealine flakes, cream, banana fritters, lemon 
sauce, minced chicken on toast, fried sweet potatoes. Dinner. — Maca- 
roni soup, roast beef, mashed potatoes, cold slaw ; apple pie, bananas, 
cream. Supper. — Deviled ham on brown toast, Saratoga chips, pears, 
cream puffs. 

16. Breakfast. — Hominy, cream, pancakes, maple syrup, boiled eggs, 
toast. Dinner. — Soup, baked fresh fish, browned potatoes, corn, lima 
beans, orange jelly; tapioca pudding, fruit. Supper. — Fried potato, 
toasted fresh fish, sweet biscuits, canned peaches, cream, layer cake. 

17. Breakfast. — Oatmeal, cream, blueberry cake, roast beef stew. 
Dinner. — Soup, roast lamb, bread sauce, Tom Thumb peas, stewed to- 
matoes ; cherry pie, oranges. Supper. — Hot cream biscuit, corn frit- 
ters, maple syrup, rock cream. 

18. Sunday. Breakfast. — Fried mush, cold beef, potato cakes, gin- 
gerbread, oranges. Dinner. — White soup, cold roast lamb, succotash, 
baked sweet potatoes, lettuce salad ; floating island, cake. Supper. — 
Sandwiches, cold biscuit, canned raspberries, cake, cheese. 

19. Breakfast.— Meat hash, pancakes, maple syrup, doughnuts, 
cheese. Dinner. — Minced lamb on toast, baked potatoes, fried parsnips, 
cold slaw; fig pudding. Supper. — Broiled smoked halibut, Saratoga 
chips, prune whip, wafers. 

20. Breakfast. — Cracked wheat, cream, corn-meal gems, liver and 
bacon, lemon jelly, doughnuts. Dinner.— Corned beef boiled with sea- 
sonable vegetables, dandelion greens; sliced oranges, rice snowballs. 
Supper. — Baking powder biscuit, maple syrup, potato cakes, canned- 
blueberry shortcake. 

21. Breakfast. — Grits, cream, buckwheat pancakes, maple syrup, 
vegetable hash. Dinner. — Soup, beefsteak, baked potatoes, spiced cur- 
rants, lima beans; pandowdy, cream, fruit. Supper. — Corned beef 
hash, cabbage salad, toast, canned currants, spice cake. 

22. Breakfast. — Cracked wheat, cream, Hamburg beefsteak, toasted 
bread, plum butter. Dinner. — Soup, chicken pie, mashed potatoes,Jet- 
tuce, young onions, cranberry jelly; fruit batter pudding. Supper. — 
Biscuit, chicken salad, lettuce, canned fruit, sponge cake. 

23. Breakfast. — Hominy, cream, meat hash, boiled eggs, toasted bis- 
cuit, doughnuts. Dinner. — Soup, halibut fin, Bechamel sauce, boiled 



A YEAR'S MENU. 535 

potatoes, scalloped tomatoes, cold slaw ; lemon pudding. Supper.— Hot 
biscuit, fish turbot, Lyonnaise potatoes, charlotte russe. 

24. Breakfast. — Cerealine flakes, cream, bread pancakes, maple 
syrup, stewed-peach tin-novel's. Dinner. — Soup, mutton chops, jelly, 
baked potatoes, canned succotash ; Brown Betty, cream. Supper. — 
Mutton toast, lettuce salad, foils, cornstarch blancmange, quince mar- 
malade, sweet-biscuits. 

25. Sunday. Breakfast. — Wheaten gems, mutton croquettes, potato 
hash, radishes. Dinner. — Boston baked beans, brown bread, lettuce 
salad ; peach pie, orange pudding, cream. Supper.— Potato salad, 
toasted rusk, cheese, layer cake. 

26. Breakfast. — Baked beans, toasted brown bread, lettuce, dough- 
nuts. Dinner. — Soup, Irish stew, apple sauce, radishes ; suet pudding, 
fruit. Supper. — Baked eggs, biscuit, raspberry meringue, cake. 

27. Breakfast. — Frumenty, cream, shredded codfish in cream, waf- 
fles, stewed apricots, coffee cake. Dinner.— Soup, broiled spring 
chickens, browned potatoes, spinach, canned peas, plum jelly; fruit 
roll. Supper. — Buttered toast, cold meat, blackberry shortcake, cheese. 

28. Breakfast.— Oatmeal, cream, plain fritters, maple syrup with 
lemon juice, codfish balls. Dinner.— Soup, clam chowder, tomatoes, 
lima beans, baked macaroni ; cottage pudding. Supper. — Clam patties, 
hot biscuit, peaches, cream, cake. 

29. Breakfast. — Toasted biscuit, browned chowder, eggs, spiced cur- 
rants. Dinner. — Economical soup, fried young onions, lettuce salad, 
green peas, potato souffle, stuffed eggs with gravy, currant jelly ; date 
pudding. Supper. — Beefsteak, baked potatoes, blueberry biscuit, 
stewed prunes, cake. 

30. Breakfast. — Mush, cream, toasted brown bread, breakfast sau- 
sage, doughnuts. Dinner. — Soup, baked pickerel, boiled potatoes, 
onions, corn, barberry jelly; fruit pie. Supper. — Biscuit, salmon salad, 
orange jelly, whipped cream, white sponge cake. 

MAY. 

1. Breakfast. — California breakfast food, cream, rolls, fried potatoes, 
toasted fish, jelly, cookies. Dinner. — Clear soup, roast veal, stuffed, 
browned potatoes, fried parsnips, lettuce, radishes ; orange pudding. 
Supper. — Cold veal, potato fritters, strawberries, cake. 

2. Sunday. Breakfast. — Buttered toast, minced veal omelet, fried 
potatoes, currant jelly. Dinner.— Boston baked beans, brown bread, 
asparagus on toast, stewed tomatoes, spiced currants ; lemon pudding. 
Supper. — Bread and milk, toasted biscuits, honey, jelly cake. 

3. Breakfast. — Oatmeal, cream, light rolls, cold veal, browned pota- 
toes. Dinner. — Stuffed leg of lamb, mashed potatoes, corn, lima beans, 
asparagus, currant jelly ; rhubarb pie, cream. Supper. — Minced veal 
on toast, light biscuit, plum butter, layer cake. 

4. Breakfast. — Corn fritters, maple syrup, fried potatoes, cold lamb, 
cold slaw. Dinner. — Soup, boiled ham, poached eggs, baked potatoes, 
tomatoes, lettuce ; rhubarb pudding. Supper. — Biscuit, sliced lamb, 
lettuce salad, preserved damsons, cake. 

5. Breakfast. — Cracked wheat, cream, creamed potatoes, sliced ham, 
plain omelet, ginger cookies. Dinner. — Soup, fricasseed chicken, brown 
toast, mashed potatoes, asparagus; cherry pie. Supper. —Biscuit, 
chicken salad, jam, layer cake. 

6. Breakfast.— -Wheat granules, cream, lamb omelet, toasted biscuit, 



536 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

doughnuts, radishes. Dinner. — Soup, roast beef, mashed potatoes, suc- 
cotash, cold slaw ; lemon pie. Supper. — Broiled ham, eggs on toast, po- 
tato balls, rock cream, cake. 

7. Breakfast. — Oatmeal, cream, fried potatoes, mackerel, muffins, 
apple cake. Dinner. — Springtime soup, stuffed baked shad, tomato 
sauce, peas, mashed potatoes; cottage pudding. Supper. — Sliced beef, 
creamed potatoes, jam, whipped cream cake. 

8. Breakfast. — Rolled rye, cream, minced beef on toast, bananas. 
Dinner. — Boiled mutton and pork, dandelion greens, stewed onions, 
boiled potatoes, steamed rice; rhubarb pie. Supper. — Sliced mutton, 
Lyonnaise potatoes, biscuits, stewed currants. 

9. Sunday. Breakfast. — Fruit fritters, sauce, boiled eggs, toast, 
brown bread, honey. Dinner. — Boston baked beans, brown bread, let- 
tuce salad, radishes; lemon pie, fruit. Supper. — Cold mutton, rolls, 
strawberries, chocolate cake. 

10. Breakfast. — Rolled rye, cream, brown bread, meat hash. Din- 
ner. — Broiled lamb, asparagus on toast, tomatoes ; Brown Betty, sweet 
sauce. Supper. — Baked beans, rice croquettes, marmalade, sweet 
biscuits. 

11. Breakfast. — Rice waffles, maple syrup, omelet, fried potatoes. 
Dinner. — Asparagus soup, veal pot-pie, tomatoes, corn, barberry jelly ; 
fruit salad, cake. Supper. — Broiled steak, potato nuts, plum preserves, 
tea biscuit, cake. 

12. Breakfast. — Corn-meal gems, minced veal on toast, cucumbers, 
cookies. Dinner. — Soup, pigeon pie, grape jelly, new potatoes, tomato 
salad ; lemon pudding. Supper. — Poached eggs, Saratoga chips, brown 
toast, jam, cake. 

13. Breakfast. — Frumenty, batter cakes, syrup, potato balls, veal 
cutlets. Dinner. — Soup, beef a la mode, browned potatoes, asparagus, 
lettuce ; rhubarb pie, fruit. Supper. — Cold meat, lettuce salad, hot bis- 
cuit, honey, cheese, cake. 

14. Breakfast. — Broiled fish, corn-meal gems, fried potatoes, plum 
jelly. Dinner. — Soup, boiled cod or salmon, scalloped tomatoes, 
steamed potatoes, spinach with eggs ; cream pie, silver cake. Supper. 
— Griddle cakes, maple syrup, lemon jelly cake. 

15. Breakfast. — Cracked wheat, cream, light rolls, beefsteak, straw- 
berries. Dinner. — Brown stew, boiled potatoes, fried parsnips, lettuce ; 
baked Indian meal pudding. Supper. — Spiced salmon, hot biscuit, 
maple syrup, lemon jelly cake. 

16. Sunday. Breakfast. — Light rolls, veal cutlets, fried potatoes, 
radishes. Dinner. — Baked chicken with dressing, rice, green peas, new 
potatoes ; cherry pie, chocolate cake. Supper. — Rolls, cold chicken, 
jelly, cake. 

17. Breakfast. — Brown bread, honey, potato cakes, chicken, rad- 
ishes. Dinner. — Roast lamb, green peas, spinach, jelly; sponge cake, 
boiled custard, oranges. Supper. — Pop-overs, cold lamb, fried potatoes, 
baked rhubarb, cake. 

18. Breakfast. — Rolled oats, cream, broiled bacon, baked potatoes, 
currant buns. Dinner. — Soup, corned beef, beet greens, young vegeta- 
bles ; cream blancmange. Supper. — Creamed potatoes, sliced beef, 
strawberry shortcake. 

19. Breakfast. — Fried mush, maple syrup, corned beef hash, lettuce 
mayonnaise. Dinner. — Haricot of mutton with dumplings, macaroni 



A YEAR'S MENU. T>37 

with cheese, spinach ; baked Indian pudding, cream. Supper. — Light 
rolls, plain omelet, Saratoga chips, strawberries, cream puffs. 

20. Breakfast. — Bakingpowder biscuit, cup potatoes, boiled eggs, 
sliced beef. Dinner. — Soup, smothered chickens, mashed potatoes, as- 
paragus on toast, lettuce salad ; puff pudding. Supper. — Chicken, fried 
potatoes, buttered toast, jam, cake. 

21. Breakfast. — Banana fritters, lemon sauce, chicken hash, rad- 
ishes. Dinner. — Soup, fried lake trout, mashed potatoes, asparagus ; 
green-currant pie, sweet biscuits. Supper. — Scrambled toast, lettuce 
salad, strawberry shortcake. 

22. Breakfast. — Cereal ine flakes, cream, toasted trout, creamed po- 
tatoes, lettuce, radishes. Dinner. — Soup, baked sirloin of veal, currant 
jelly, browned potatoes, stewed tomatoes, corn ; baked ries pudding. 
Supper. — Veal patties, Parker House rolls, Saratoga chips, jellied apri- 
cots, cream, cake. 

23. Sunday. Breakfast. — Oatmeal, cream, fried potatoes, cold veal, 
doughnuts. Dinner. — Baked chicken, new potatoes, tomatoes, baked 
rhubarb ; charlotte russe. Supper. — Fish hash, currant jam, biscuit, 
Washington pie. 

24. Breakfast. —Rolled rye, cream, corn-meal gems, fish balls, hard 
gingerbread. Dinner. — Boast beef, mashed potatoes, spinach, onions ; 
cornstarch blancmange, cream. Supper. — Veal patties, steamed brown 
bread, lettuce salad, strawberries, cake. 

25. Breakfast. — Brown bread, omelet, fried potatoes, apple fritters, 
cheese. Dinner. — Boston baked beans, brown bread, cucumbers ; 
cherry pie, cream. Supper.— Mutton chops, baked potatoes, lettuce 
salad, raspberry jam, mixed cakes. 

26. Breakfast. — Corn-meal gems, bacon, eggs, fried potatoes, rad- 
ishes, fruit. Dinner. — Soup, Boston baked beans, brown bread, fresh 
vegetables ; currant roll, sweet sauce. Supper. — Broiled herrings, bis- 
cuit, strawberries, layer cake. 

27. Breakfast. — Oatmeal, cream, toast, boiled eggs, lettuce, dough- 
nuts, fruit. Dinner. — Soup, boiled beef, beet greens, young vegetables, 
plum jelly; queen of puddings. Supper. — Hot biscuit, cold beef, fried 
potatoes, macaroni, cheese, canned fruit, cake. 

28. Breakfast. — Batter cakes, maple syrup, canned-oyster patties, 
lettuce. Dinner. — Soup, baked fresh mackerel, browned potatoes, 
onions, tomatoes, young beets ; Brown Betty. Supper. — Hot biscuit, 
honey, sliced tongue, sponge cake. 

29. Breakfast. — Hot biscuit, Hamburg beefsteak, fried potatoes, 
spiced currants, molasses cake. Dinner. — Soup, roast lamb, mint sauce, 
new vegetables, potatoes baked, quince jelly ; cherry pie. Supper. — 
Sliced lamb, light rolls, tomato fritters, pineapple, Washington pie. 

30. Sunday. Breakfast. — Rolled rye, cream, beefsteak, tomato 
omelet. Dinner. — Clam chowder, cold lamb, tomato sauce, baked pota- 
toes, lettuce salad ; strawberry shortcake, fruit. Supper. — Cold tongue, 
rolls, ice cream, cake. 

31. Breakfast. — Fried mush, maple syrup, minced lamb on toast, 
new potatoes browned in halves. Dinner. — Beefsteak, creamed new 
potatoes, spinach, cucumber salad; blueberry pudding, cream. Supper. 
— Cream toast, broiled white fish, baked potatoes, strawberries, cake. 



»38 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

JUNE. 

1. BkeAkfast. — California breakfast food, cream, strawberries, boiled 
eggs, pop-overs. Dinner. — Julienne soup, roast beef, Yorkshire pud- 
ding, browned potatoes, lettuce salad ; chocolate blancmange. Supper. 
— Cold beef, Lyonnaise potatoes, strawberry shortcake. 

2. Breakfast. — Buttered toast, poached eggs, stewed new potatoes, 
lettuce, radishes. Dinner. — Scotch broth, lamb fricassee, currant jelly, 
green peas, rice, steamed new potatoes ; fig pudding. Supper. — Creamed 
chipped beef, fried potatoes, muffins, strawberries, cake. 

3. Breakfast. — Minced lamb on toast, creamed potatoes, toasted 
muffins, cucumbers, cinnamon buns. Dinner. — Beef soup, roast beef 
in gravy, mashed potatoes, asparagus, onions ; lemon pie. Supper. — 
Roast beef hash, lettuce salad, rice muffins, ribbon cake. 

4. Breakfast. — Asparagus on toast with eggs, potato fritters, cher- 
ries. Dinner. — Tomato soup, boiled cod, horseradish sauce, new vege- 
tables, cucumber salad ; rice pudding, frosted cherries. Supper. — 
Vegetable salad, broiled white fish, graham bread, strawberry whip. 

5. Breakfast. — Johnny cake, browned chicken on toast, creamed 
potatoes, oranges. Dinner. — Soup, corned beef, string beans, young 
beets, turnips, cabbage, potatoes ; cherry pie. Supper. — Parker House 
rolls, pressed beef, fried potatoes, fruit salad, sponge cake. 

6. Sunday. Breakfast. — Oatmeal, cream, fried bananas, baked eggs, 
creamed new potatoes, brown bread. Dinner. — Mulligatawny soup, 
fish turbot, vegetable salad, scalloped tomatoes ; strawberry shortcake, 
cream. Supper. — Bread and milk, wafers, cheese, charlotte russe. 

7. Breakfast. — Fried oatmeal, syrup, lettuce salad, corned beef 
hash, brown bread. Dinner. — Tomato puree, veal cutlets, breaded, wax 
beans, baked potatoes, tomatoes ; chocolate blancmange. Supper. — 
Sardines, baking powder biscuit, strawberry shortcake. 

8. Breakfast. —Breakfast food, cream, beefsteak, fried potatoes, 
fruit. Dinner. — Rice soup, boiled leg of mutton, caper sauce, spinach, 
rice, tomato salad, steamed potatoes ; Brown Betty. Supper. — Tongue, 
creamed potatoes, hot rolls, fruit salad, cake. 

9. Breakfast. — Rice cakes, potato hash, cold mutton, bananas. 
Dinner. — Puree of spinach, meat pie, jelly, baked potatoes, orange frit- 
ters, cucumber salad ; Sutherland pudding. Supper. — Tongue hash, 
spiced peaches, brown toast, buttered, cup custards, white cake. 

10. Breakfast.— Grits, cream, asparagus on toast with eggs, fried 
potatoes, doughnuts. Dinner. — Soup, ragout of beef, browned pota- 
toes, onions, stewed tomatoes ; puff pudding. Supper. — Frizzled beef, 
baked potatoes, Sally Lunn, strawberries, loaf cake. 

11. Breakfast.— Cream toast, fried fish, Lyonnaise potatoes, lettuce, 
radishes. Dinner. — Clear soup, baked pickerel, cream sauce, steamed 
potatoes, stewed onions, cucumber salad ; strawberry shortcake. Sup- 
per. — Sardines, potato salad, cream biscuit, Washington pie. 

12. Breakfast. — Fish croquettes, cream potatoes, Johnny cake, let- 
tuce salad. Dinner. — Asparagus soup, cold beef, scalloped potatoes, 
corn, string beans ; lemon pie, fruit. Supper. — Tea biscuit, graham 
bread, beefsteak, strawberries, cake. 

13. Sunday. Breakfast. — Minced beef on toast, creamed potatoes, 
corn fritters, coffee cake, radishes. Dinner. — Baked chicken, mashed 
potatoes, tomatoes, salad, celery ; snow pudding, frosted cherries. Sup- 
per, — Buttered toast, cold chicken, strawberries, cake. 



A YEAR'S MENU. 539 

14. Breakfast. — Meat hash, cucumbers, graham gems, coffee cake. 
Dinner. — Tomato soup, boiled ham, steamed potatoes, spinach, corn, 
cucumbers; cherry pudding. Supper. — Chicken salad, Saratoga pota- 
toes, pop-overs, chocolate blancmange, sweet biscuits. 

15. Breakfast. — Broiled liver, baked potatoes, cucumbers, French 
toast, doughnuts. Dinner. — Veal cutlets, breaded, tomato sauce, baked 
potatoes, wax beans, buttered beets, lettuce salad ; strawberry short- 
cake. Supper. — Cold ham, creamed potatoes, sliced tomatoes, fresh 
rolls, custard, cake. 

10. Breakfast. — Rolled oats, cream, ham omelet, brown bread, cof- 
fee cake, cherries. Dinner. — Soup, roast lamb, mint sauce, green peas, 
macaroni with cheese, new potatoes; puff pudding. Supper. — Cold 
lamb, new potatoes browned in halves, lettuce salad, brown toast, straw- 
berry whip, pound cake. 

17. Breakfast. — Johnny cake, broiled ham, fried potatoes, cucum- 
bers, gingerbread, cheese. Dinner. — Tomato cream soup, beefsteak 
smothered in onions, baked potatoes, string beans, celery ; fruit salad, 
sweet biscuits. Supper.— Minced lamb on toast, muffins, raspberries, 
cream, cake. 

18. Breakfast. — Brook trout, new potatoes in cream, fruit fritters, 
lemon sauce. Dinner. — Boiled salmon, tomato sauce, steamed potatoes, 
cabbage stewed in milk, vegetable salad ; ice cream, cake. Supper. 
— Baked eggs, Lyonnaise potatoes, pineapple fritters, fruit sauce. 

19. Breakfast.— Frumenty, cream, gems, lettuce, radishes, broiled 
ham, baked potatoes, doughnuts. Dinner. — Soup, scalloped salmon, 
new potatoes, creamed cauliflower, cucumbers ; custard pie, strawber- 
ries. Suppeh. — Veal loaf, fried potatoes, tomato salad, light biscuit; 
queen of puddings with whipped cream. 

20. Sunday. Breakfast. — Ham omelet, creamed potatoes, brown 
toast, currants, coffee cake. Dinner. — Chicken, celery, new potatoes, 
peas, cabbage salad; ambrosia, cake. Supper. — Potato and salmon 
salad, graham bread, strawberries, whipped cream, cake. 

21. Breakfast. — Ham, fried eggs, baked potatoes, Johnny cake, cu- 
cumbers, ginger snaps. Dinner. — Beefsteak, baked potatoes, snap 
beans cooked with bacon, onions sliced with cucumbers ; cherry roll, 
butter sauce. Supper. — Chicken hash on toast, fried potatoes, baking 
powder biscuit, strawberry shortcake. 

22. Breakfast. — Breakfast food, cream, potato nuts, veal loaf, sweet 
biscuit, currants. Dinner. — Roast beef, browned potatoes, onions, 
spinach ; orange fritters, whipped cream. Supper. —Black bass, French 
potatoes, cucumber salad, muffins, fresh raspberries, cake. 

23. Breakfast. — French rolls, broiled liver, potato hash, tomatoes, 
dewberries, cream. Dinner. — Roast beef in gravy, baked potatoes, 
siring beans, buttered beets; lemon pie. Supper. — Pressed chicken, 
creamed potatoes, sliced tomatoes, fruit salad, chocolate cake. 

24. Breakfast. — Meat toast, fried potatoes, whole wheat gems, 
strawberry shortcake. Dinner. — Soup, corned beef with new vegeta- 
bles, brown bread ; currant pie. Supper. — Pressed chicken, vegetable 
salad, raspberry shortcake!. 

25. Breakfast. — Wheat granules, cream, raspberries, poached eggs 
on toast, coffee cake. Dinner. — Onion soup, baked lish, cauliflower, 
string beans, new potatoes; cherry pie. Suppkb. — Fish in cream, fried 
potatoes, pop-oters, fruit fritters, whipped cream. 



540 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

26. Breakfast. — Corned beef hash, wheat gems, lettuce salad, soft 
gingerbread. Dinner. — Veal cutlets, breaded, piquante sauce, peas, 
buttered beets, new potatoes, cucumbers ; lemon pudding. Supper. — 
Jellied chicken, Lyonnaise potatoes, fruit salad, New England buns. 

27. Sunday. Breakfast. — Browned chicken on toast with cream 
gravy, Saratoga potatoes, raspberries, buns. Dinner. — Cold stuffed 
breast of lamb, peas, cauliflower, stewed potatoes, lettuce salad ; rasp- 
berry sherbet, delicate cake. Supper. — Bread and milk, cheese straws, 
strawberries with whipped cream. 

28. Breakfast. — Boiled eggs, buttered brown toast, berries, steamed 
buns. Dinndr. — Vegetable soup, cold lamb, scalloped potatoes, peas, 
cauliflower salad ; batter pudding. Supper. — Beefsteak, fried pota- 
toes, Sally Lunn, currants, cake. 

29. Breakfast. — Cracked wheat, cream, raspberries, chipped beef 
with cream, baked potatoes, gingersnaps. Dinner. — Beef stew with 
dumplings, string beans, squash, beets, potatoes ; dewberry pie with 
cream sauce. Supper. — Veal loaf, light biscuit, strawberries jellied, 
whipped cream, cake. 

30. Breakfast. — Beef croquettes, fried potatoes, muffins, fruit. 
Dinner. — Spinach puree, chicken, new potatoes, succotash, sliced to- 
matoes; ice cream, cake. Supper. — Cold chicken, Saratoga chips, 
toasted muffins, jellied strawberries, cake. 

JULY. 

1. Breakfast. — Rolled wheat, beefsteak, creamed potatoes, lettuce, 
cold brown bread, strawberries. Dinner. — Milk soup, roast beef, string 
beans, potatoes, cauliflower; bananas, tapioca cream. Supper. — Bis- 
cuit, sliced beef, potato salad, strawberries, cream. 

2. Breakfast. — Rolled rye, cream, omelet, peaches. Dinner. — 
Boiled fish, egg sauce, stewed corn, mashed potatoes, cucumber salad ; 
apple dumplings, cream sauce. Supper.— Herring, Saratoga chips, 
baking powder bfscuit, raspberry shortcake. 

3. Breakfast. — Cracked wheat, cream, crullers, cold beef, fried po- 
tatoes, currants, ginger snaps. Dinner. — Broiled chickens, potatoes, 
young beet salad, egg garnish; strawberry pie. Supper.— Biscuit, 
broiled brook trout, currants, layer cake. 

4. Sunday. Breakfast. — Rolled wheat, broiled mackerel, rolls, 
browned potatoes, strawberries, cream. Dinner. — White soup, boiled 
salmon, green peas, summer squash ; cherry pie, oranges. Supper. — 
Ham, olives, light rolls, strawberries, cream, angol cake. 

5. Breakfast. — Oatmeal, cream, toasted crackers, sliced bananas, 
scrambled toast. Dinner. — Soup, mutton chops, string beans, toma- 
toes, potatoes ; currant pie. Supper. — Salmon salad, pop-overs, straw- 
berries, cream, sponge cake. 

6. Breakfast. — Rolled rye, cream, batter cakes, syrup, beefsteak, 
creamed potatoes, fruit. Dinner. — Soup, lamb fricassee, beet greens, 
potatoes, white turnips ; boiled custard, lemon jelly cake. Supper. — 
Biscuit, lamb fritters, Saratoga chips, strawberries, cake. 

7. Breakfast. —Cracked wheat, cream, toasted rolls, omelet, rasp- 
berries. Dinner. — White soup, veal pot-pie, baked potatoes, green 
peas, onions ; currant pudding. Supper. — Potatoes, potted ham, sweet 
biscuits, strawberry ice, cocoanut cake. 

8. Breakfast. — Rice cakes, maple syrup, minced real on toast, 
browned potatoes, cottage cheese. Dinner. — Soup, roast beef, mashed 



A YEAR'S MENU. 541 

potatoes, tomatoes, string beans ; raspberry pie. Suppeb.— Hot biscuit, 
sliced beef, potato cakes, strawberries, cream, layer cake. 

9. Breakfast. — Wbeatall, cream, brown toast, cucumber salad, cod- 
fish balls. Dinner. — Soup, baked white iish, browned potatoes, onions, 
mashed turnips, currant jelly; strawberry shortcake. Supper. — Hot 
biscuit, white fish salad, lemon jelly, chocolate cake. 

10. Breakfast. — Buttered toast, shredded white fish in cream, Sara- 
toga chips, cherries. Dinner. — Soup, veal cutlets, onions, beans, brown 
bread ; raspberry pie. Supper. — Light rolls, meat croquettes, creamed 
potatoes, fruit salad, cake. 

11. Sunday. Breakfast. — Broiled chicken, pone, fried potatoes, cur- 
rants. Dinner. — Soup, Boston baked beans, brown bread, lettuce salad, 
radishes ; raspberry pie. Supper. — Brown bread, cold chicken, rasp- 
berries, cream, sponge cake. 

12. Breakfast. — Wheaten gems, cream, baked beans, brown bread, 
apples. — Dinner. — Soup, beefsteak, baked potatoes, green peas, cucum- 
bers; raspberry roll. Supper. — Minced veal cakes, sweet buns, orange 
shortcake. 

13. Breakfast. — Rolled rye, cream, toasted bread, broiled herring, 
seed cakes. Dinner. — Soup, baked chickens, mashed potatoes, string 
beans, onions, jelly ; currant pie. Supper. — Rolls, chicken salad, rasp- 
berries, cake. 

14. Breakfast. — Fruit fritters, cream, fried potatoes, chicken on 
toast. Dinner. — Soup, broiled lamb, baked potatoes, peas, lettuce salad ; 
quince jelly, caramel pudding. Supper. — Potato and meat cakes, rolls, 
raspberries, fig cake. . 

15. Breakfast- — Ham omelet, fried potatoes, raspberry cake, fruit. 
Dinner. — Soup, corned beef, boiled potatoes, beets, turnips, currants : 
jelly, cornstarch pudding. Supper. — Sliced corned beef, biscuits, corn 
fritters, raspberries, cream. 

16. Breakfast. — Corned beef hash, toasted biscuit, raspberries, 
cream. Dinner. — Soup, baked cod, mashed potatoes, buttered beets, 
diced turnips, currant jelly; cherry pudding. Supper. — Omelet, 
Parker House rolls, Saratoga chips, blackberries,#3ake. 

17. Breakfast. —Rolled rye, cream, toast, cold cod, eggs, doughnuts. 
Dinner. — Soup, fish turbot, vegetables ; blueberry pudding. Supper. 
— Eggs, cream toast, raspberry shortcake, whipped cream. 

18. Sunday. Breakfast. — Cracked wheat, cream, cold brown bread, 
dewberries, fishballs. Dinner. — Cold roast lamb, peas, baked potatoes, 
lobster salad, celery ; charlotte russe, fruits, nuts. Supper. — Lamb 
sandwiches, brown bread, jellied blackberries, whipped cream, cake. 

19. Breakfast. — Mush, cream, brown bread, blueberries, sliced ham. 
Dinner. — Rice soup, boiled mutton, steamed potatoes, sliced tomatoes, 
rice; peach dumpling. Supper. — Rice cakes, cold mutton, creamed po- 
tatoes, cold slaw, raspberries, cake. 

20. Breakfast. — Batter cakes, broiled ham, stewed corn, currants, 
doughnuts. Dinner. — Soup, broiled brook trout, baked potatoes, 
onions, battered beets, celery ; cherry pic. Suppeb. — Fried potatoes, 
steak, baking powder biscuit, olives, blackberries, strawberry ice cream, 
cake. 

21. Breakfast. — Minced mutton on toast, potato balls, crullers, cur- 
rants. Dinner. — Soup, roast leg (if lamb, mashed potatoes, peas, as- 
paragus, tomato salad; blackberry pie. SUPPBB. — Cold lamb, sweet bis- 
cuits, raspberries, Ice cream, cake. 

22. Breakfast. — Pancakes, maple syrup, cold lamb, potato cakes, 



542 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

cheese, currants. Dinner. — Baked ham, potatoes, corn, tomatoes; cur- 
rant pie. Supper. — Biscuit, cold ham, corn oysters, blueberries, cream 
cake. 

23. Breakfast. — Rolled wheat, cream, broiled mackerel, fried pota- 
toes, blueberry fritters. Dinner. — Boiled shad, steamed potatoes, to- 
matoes, onions, asparagus ; raspberry pie. Supper. — Cold shad, olives, 
blueberry cake, blancmange, cake. 

24. Breakfast. — Cerealine flakes, cream, browned potatoes, beefsteak. 
Dinner. — Soup, fried gumbo, shell beans, corn, potatoes ; lemon pud- 
ding, raisins, nuts. Supper.— Ham, cream biscuit, Saratoga chips, 
dewberries, cake. 

25. Sunday. Breakfast. — Rolled rye, cream, eggs, fruit fritters, 
lemon sauce. Dinner. — Cold roast veal, stuffed, vegetables ; fruit, ice 
cream, cake. Supper. — Omelet, ice cream, sweet biscuit. 

26. Breakfast. — Cracked wheat, cream, fishballs, olives, currants. 
Dinner. — Soup, cold veal, potatoes, new vegetables ; frosted currants, 
rice pudding. Supper. — Eggs, potatoes browned in butter, rolls, dew- 
berry shortcake. 

27. Breakfast. — Biscuit, minced veal, creamed potatoes, blackber- 
ries, coffee cake. Dinner. — Broiled trout, potatoes, beets, turnips, corn, 
currant jelly ; peach pie, cream, watermelon. Supper. — Parker House 
rolls, boiled clams on shell, sliced pears, cream. 

28. Breakfast. — Vegetable hash, eggs, brown bread, berries. Din- 
ner. — Soup, fricasseed chicken on toast, string beans, onions, succo- 
tash, mashed potatoes; blueberry pie, frosted fruit. Supper. — Broiled 
salmon, hot biscuit, corn fritters, berries, cake. 

29. Breakfast. — Cracked wheat, cream, rolls, chicken, fried pota- 
toes, sliced tomatoes, little spice cakes. Dinner. — Clam chowder, boiled 
beef, vegetables, currant jelly; pineapple pudding. Supper. — Clam 
patties, tomato salad, waffles, honey. 

30. Breakfast. — Fried mush, creamed potatoes, scrambled eggs, 
fruit. Dinner. — Fried fish, baked potatoes, onions in cream, wax beans, 
tomato salad ; blueberry pie, cream puffs. Supper. — Sardines, Saratoga 
potatoes, cream toast, ice cream, cake. 

31. Breakfast. — Graham gems, potato hash, beefsteak, tomatoes. 
Dinner. — Stuffed shoulder of veal, jelly, mashed potatoes, corn, lima 
beans, lettuce salad ; apple pie. Supper. — Cold veal, potato croquettes, 
tomato salad, cake, sea-moss blancmange, raspberries. 

AUGUST. 

• 1. Sunday. Breakfast. — Cracked wheat, cream, crullers, sliced 
tongue, blueberries. Dinner. — Boston baked beans, brown bread, pick- 
led beets, lettuce salad ; blueberry pie, melon. Supper. — Brown and 
white bread, milk, cold tongue, cake, cottage cheese. 

2. Breakfast. — Cerealine flakes, cream, brown toast, baked beans, 
sliced tomatoes. Dinner. — Pickerel browned in butter, baked potatoes, 
mashed turnips, cucumbers; blueberry pudding. Supper. — Muffins, 
sliced tongue, potato salad, cottage cheese, banana cake. 

3. Breakfast. — Oatmeal, cream, buttermilk biscuit, breaded eggs, 
fruitr* Dinner. — Roast beef, mashed potatoes, tomatoes, corn, cabbage 
salad ; blackberry pie. Supper. — Sliced beef, potato balls, tea rolls, 
peach frappe, cake. 

4. Breakfast. — Buttered toast, roast beef hash, crullers, currants. 
Dinner. — Soup, stuffed baked lamb, peas, potatoes, beets ; rice snow- 



A YEAR'S MENU. 543 

balls, wafers. Sufkbb.— Fried potatoes, cold lamb, rusk, pineapple 
sherbet, cake. 

5. Breakfast. — Rice muffins, meat croquettes, creamed potato, fruit. 
Dinner. — Soup, baked chickens, browned potatoes, mashed turnip, 
summer squash, cucumbers ; currant pie. Supper. — Vienna rolls, lamb 
pie, potato salad, baked peaches, fancy cakes. 

6. Breakfast. — Graham gems, broiled herrings, potato cakes, cur- 
rants. Dinner.- Soup, baked halibut, vegetables, lemon jelly ; apple 
pie, fruit. Supper. — Halibut in cream, brown toast, cake, raspberry ice. 

7'. Breakfast.— Rolled rye, corn fritters, fish cake, cucumbers, cur- 
rant bannock. Dinner.— Soup, broiled chickens, potatoes, squash, 
boiled corn, tomato salad ; blueberry pie, fruit. Supper.— Chicken 
salad, brown bread, sponge cake, blackberries. 

8. Sunday. Breakfast.— Nutmeg melon, lamb chops, Lyonnaise po- 
tatoes, corn oysters. Dinner.— Cold roast beef, mashed potatoes, suc- 
cotash, sliced tomatoes; blackberry tapioca, watermelon. Supper.— 
Brown bread, milk, cake, ice cream. 

9. Breakfast.— Crullers, brown bread, beef in gravy, potato cakes, 
grapes. Dinner.— Veal cutlets, breaded, with tomato sauce, vegetables ; 
rice pudding, fruit. Supper.— Cream toast, meat omelet, baked apples, 

10." Breakfast.— Rolls, meat hash, stewed grapes, little spice cakes. 
Dinner.— Soup, chicken pie, baked potatoes, tomatoes, onions, celery; 
fruit roll, grapes, pears. Supper.— Buns, chicken salad, celery, ice 
cream, cake. 

11. Breakfast.— Fruit fritters, fricasseed eggs, baked potatoes, cur- 
rants. Dinner.— Soup, roast lamb, mint sauce, green peas, squash, po- 
tatoes, celery ; lemon pic, fruit. Supper.— Scrambled toast, fried pota- 
toes, peach pyramid, cake. 

12. Breakfast.— Oatmeal, cream, rolls, cold lamb, creamed potatoes, 
nutmeg melon. Dinner.— Soup, beefsteak, vegetables ; blueberry pie, 
fruit. Supper. — Lamb croquettes, potato salad, banana compote, cake. 

13. Breakfast.— Potato cakes, broiled mackerel, Johnny cake, let- 
tuce, fruit. Dinner.— Soup, boiled salmon, vegetables, spiced currants; 
apple pie, cottage cheese, fruit. Supper.— Rolls, salmon salad, Sara- 
toga potatoes, blackberries, cream puffs. 

14. Breakfast.— Griddle cakes, baked eggs, fried potatoes, grapes. 
Dinner.— Soup, boiled ham, vegetables; appledumplings, buttersauce. 
Supper.— Cold ham, vegetable salad, green-apple sauce, cocoanut cake. 

15. Sunday, Breakfast.— Salmon in cream, potato cakes, cucumbers, 
cinnamon buns, fruit. Dinner.— Clam chowder, cold ham, tomato salad, 
celery ; charlotte russe, watermelon. Supper.— Sardines, brown bread, 
cake, ice cream. 

16. Breakfast.— Rolled oats, cream, brown bread, baked clams, 
buns, currant jelly. Dinner.— Beefsteak, mashed potatoes, tomatoes, 
corn,' lima beans, celery ; peach cobbler, fruit. Supper.— Biscuit, succo- 
tash, potato cakes, celery, grape sauce, cream puffs. 

17. Breakfast.— Creamed potatoes, broiled herring, waffles, cinna- 
mon buns, fruit. Dinner.— Soup, pork chops, vegetables ; brown Betty, 
watermelon. Supper.— Creamed chipped beef, baked potatoes, rolls, 
frozen peaches, cake. 

18. Breakfast.— Creamed potatoes, broiled codfish, blueberry biscuit, 
fruit. Dinner.— Old-fashioned boiled dinner, tomato salad; blackberry 
tapioca. Supper,— Beefsteak, potato balls, whipped cream cake, peacb 
frappe, 



544 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

19. Breakfast. — Wheat granules, cream, corned beef hash, fruit. 
Dinner.— Soup, fillet of veal, steamed potatoes, corn, egg plant, cur- 
rant jelly ; frozen pudding. Supper. — Sliced veal, creamed potatoes, 
berries, velvet sponge cake. 

20. Breakfast. — Wheat gems, cream, minced veal on toast, lettuce 
salad, melon. Dinner. — Soup, baked black bass, browned potatoes, 
cauliflower, tomatoes ; gooseberry pie. Supper. — Rolls, lobster salad, 
mixed cake, cup custards. 

21. Breakfast. — Gems, fried potatoes, stuffed eggs, sliced tomatoes, 
celery, ginger snaps, melon. Dinner. — Soup, fricasseed prairie chick- 
ens, mashed potatoes, squash, onions, celery, currant jelly ; gooseberry 
fool, fruit. Supper.— Rolls, toiled clams on shell, cake, ice cream. 

22. Sunday. Breakfast. — Oatmeal, cream, prairie chickens on toast, 
sliced tomatoes, melon. Dinner. — Soup, cold boiled ham, vegetables ; 
apple snow, confections, fruit. Supper. — Brown bread, milk, Italian 
cream, fancy cakes. 

23. Breakfast. — Brown bread, ham omelet, vegetable hash, cucum- 
bers, ginger snaps. Dinner. — Soup, beefsteak, baked potatoes, squash, 
green corn, tomatoes ; plum cobbler, fruit. Supper. — Lancashire pie, 
tomato salad, chocolate blancmange. 

24. Breakfast. — Meat toast, fried potatoes, Sally Lunn, sliced toma- 
toes, melon. Dinner. — Roast beef, mashed potatoes, cauliflower, scal- 
loped tomatoes, celery ; grape pie. Supper. — Clam fritters, tea rolls, 
jelly'tarts, little fruit cakes. 

25. Breakfast. — Cracked wheat, cream, plain omelet, toasted crack- 
ers, cheese, grapes. Dinner. — Soup, veal cutlet, potatoes, corn souffle, 
beans, celery ; peach pie, cream, fruit. Supper. — Cold beef, Lyonnaise 
potatoes, currant jelly, white sponge cake, pineapple sherbet. 

26. Breakfast. — Cracker toast, baked clams, potato cakes, celery, 
apple sauce. Dinner. —Soup, baked ducks, potatoes, cauliflower, on- 
ions, corn, spiced currants ; floating island, fruit. Supper. — Rolls, 
brown bread, sliced tomatoes, cream, clam fritters, spice cake. 

27. Breakfast. — Biscuit, broiled fresh mackerel, potato rissoles, cu- 
cumber salad. Dinner. — Soup, boiled halibut, tomato salad, potatoes ; 
apple pie, watermelon. Supper. — Fish turbot, fried potatoes, corn- 
starch blancmange, jelly cake. 

28. Breakfast. — Fish balls, toast, celery salad, little fruit cakes. 
Dinner. — Boiled mutton, potatoes, celery, scalloped tomatoes, succo- 
tash ; apple rolly-poly. Supper. — Cold duck, biscuit, hot steamed brown 
bread, apple sauce, cocoanut cake. 

29. Sunday. Breakfast.— Breakfast food, cream, egg gems, fried 
potatoes, doughnuts, fruit. Dinner. — Cold mutton, baked potatoes, 
peas, tomato salad ; macaroons, lady fingers, baked pears, cream. Sup- 
per. — Pressed chicken, Saratoga chips, Vienna biscuit, fruit salad, cake. 

30. Breakfast. — Meat toast, creamed potatoes, doughnuts, melon. 
Dinner. — Soup, pork chops, baked potatoes, lima beans, sweet corn, 
applesauce; cottage pudding, grapes. Supper. — Pressed chicken, po- 
tato cakes, brown bread, grape jam, angel cake, ice cream. 

31. Breakfast. — Cerealine flakes, cream, beefsteak, fried potatoes, 
sliced tomatoes, sweet biscuits. Dinner. — Stuffed roast veal, jelly, ap- 
ple fritters, cauliflower, wax beans, mashed potatoes; sago and apple 
pudding, fruit. Supper. — Cold veal, scalloped potatoes, raised biscuits, 
apple compote, fancy cakes. 



A YEAR'S MENU. . r >4 3 

SEPTEMBER. 

1. Breakfast. — Buns, apple fritters, cream, potato cakes, fruit. 
Dinner. — Ox-tail soup, boiled beef, beets, carrots, potatoes, onions, cab- 
bage salad ; apple dumpling, grapes. Supper. — Light biscuit, baked 
apples, beef croquettes, vegetable salad, whipped cream cake. 

2. Bbeakfast. — Corn-meal gems, honey, beef and vegetable hash, 
melons. Dinner. — Soup, roast duck, onions, turnips, potatoes, tomato 
salad, apple sauce ; Delmonico pudding, fruit. Supper. — Browned po- 
tatoes, meat cakes, brown bread, baked peaches, cake. 

3. Breakfast. — Oatmeal, cream, Johnny cake, creamed potatoes, 
broiled fish, apple sauce, melons. Dinner. — Soup, salmi of duck, vege- 
tables, currant jelly ; apple pie, cheese. Supper. — Omelet, toast, baked 
apples, cream, white cake, ice cream. 

4. Breakfast. — Light rolls, beefsteak, potatoes, baked apples, 
peaches, raised doughnuts. Dinner. — Soup, fried partridges, cranberry 
sauce, celery, vegetables ; grape pie, fruit. Supper. — Cold partridge, 
crumpets, fruit fritters, baked pears. 

5. Sunday. Breakfast.— Baked pears, cream, toasted crumpets, fried 
tomatoes, broiled quail. Dinner. — Clam chowder, cold roast lamb, 
mashed potatoes, celery, scalloped tomatoes ; blueberry pudding. Sup- 
per. — Potato salad, lamb, peaches. 

6. Breakfast. — Graham gems, Lancashire pie, sliced tomatoes, mel- 
ons. Dinner. — Lamb steak, potatoes, corn, shell beans, onions, celery; 
apple pie. Supper. — Broiled white fish, baked potatoes, cabbage salad, 
blackberries, cake. 

7. Breakfast. — Batter cakes, creamed potatoes, beefsteak, apple 
butter, little spice cakes, grapes. Dinner. — Soup, brook trout, apple 
sauce, potatoes, squash, turnips, celery ; brown Betty, cream. Supper. 
— Parker House rolls, scalloped oysters, peach cobbler, whipped cream. 

8. Breakfast — Cerealine flakes, cream, Johnny cake, sliced ham, 
potato cakes, fruit. Dinner. — Soup, broiled steak, potatoes, stewed 
tomatoes, green corn, plum butter ; fruit batter pudding, melons. Sup- 
per. — Biscuit, potato salad, boiled clams, jellied plums, whipped cream 
cake. 

9. Breakfast. — Oatmeal mush, cream, fruit fritters, pressed meat, 
celery. Dinner. — Soup, chicken pie, vegetables ; snow pudding, fruit. 
Supper. — Mutton chops, light rolls, baked apples, cake, ice cream. 

10. Breakfast. — Breaded eggs, potato fritters, graham gems, stewed 
plums, melons. Dinner.— Soup, vegetables, boiled salmon, apple sauce; 
peach pie, grapes. Supper. — Broiled brook trout, tomato salad, blue- 
berry cake, charlotte russe. 

11. Breakfast. — Corn-meal gems, pressed meat, creamed potatoes, 
celery, crullers. Dinner. — Soup, roast beef, potatoes, onions, squash, 
celery; apple charlotte, fruit. Supper. — Cold beef, fried potatoes, 
brown bread, honey, stewed pears, cake. 

12. Sunday. Breakfast. — Scalloped potatoes, fried oysters, sliced to- 
matoes, coffee cake, melons. Dinner. — Cold roast beef, baked potatoes, 
corn, tomato salad; apple pie, fruit. Supper. — Brown bread, milk, 
pear compote, cake. 

13. Breakfast. — Rolled rye, cream, creamed potatoes, meat toast, 
apple sauce, buns. Dinner. — Soup, veal cutlet, tomato sauce, potatoes, 
fried parsnips, celery salad ; jellied apples, tapioca pudding. Supper. 
— Veal loaf, fried potatoes, tomato salad, cake, apple meringue. 

14. Breakfast. — Oysters on the half shell, corn-meal gems, plum 



546 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

jelly, celery, sweet rusk. Dinner. — Roast fresh pork, apple sauce, on- 
ions, corn, potatoes, celery; plum pie, melons. Supper.— Scalloped 
oysters, fried tomatoes, cream toast, cake, fruit frappe. 

15. Breakfast. — Broiled grouse, cup potatoes, fried oatmeal, toma- 
toes. Dinner. — Soup, pigeon pie, celery, potatoes, onions, peas, cur- 
rant jelly; apple pie, melons. Supper.— Rolls, pigeon on toast, goose- 
berry jam, angel cake. 

16. Breakfast. — Rolled wheat, cream, tomatoes, potato fritters, cold 
pork, melon. Dinner.— Soup, roast leg of mutton, currant jelly, tur- 
nips, egg plant ; squash pie, fruit. Supper. — Scalloped oysters, tea 
rolls, baked quinces, cake. 

17. Breakfast. — Broiled trout, browned potatoes, Johnny cake, fruit. 
Dinner. — Soup, boiled fresh cod, grape jelly, tomatoes, potatoes, celery; 
peach cobbler, grapes, pears. Supper. — Clam fritters, biscuit, celery, 
jellied apples, cake. 

18. Breakfast. — Rolls, mutton toast, fried potatoes, squash patties, 
fruit. Dinner. — Soup, fish turbot, crabapple jelly, potatoes, cauliflower, 
baked tomatoes, celery ; cottage pudding, fruit. Supper. — Lamb chops, 
cream toast, apple sauce, cinnamon buns. 

19. Sunday. Breakfast. — Fried chicken, French toast, doughnuts, 
fruit. Dinner. — Soup, mutton pie, sweet potatoes, rice, tomato salad ; 
apple pie, ambrosia, cake. Supper. — Egg sandwiches, brown bread, 
damson preserve, cake. 

20. Breakfast. — Rice pancakes, ham and eggs, lettuce salad, fruit. 
Dinner. — Beefsteak, potatoes, diced turnips, squash, celery, cucumbers ; 
apple dumpling, grapes. Supper.— Broiled trout, Saratoga chips, fried 
tomatoes, baked peaches, cake. 

21. Breakfast. — Baking powder biscuit, omelet, aux fines herbes, 
fried potatoes, fruit. Dinner. — Soup, fried partridges, cream sauce, 
jelly, mashed potatoes, egg plant, scalloped tomatoes, celery ; fruit roll. 
Supper. — Partridge on toast, potatoes, jam, cake. 

22. Breakfast. — Broiled sweetbreads, fried potatoes, gems, tomatoes, 
spice cakes, fruit. Dinner. — Soup, chicken pie, currant jelly, corn, 
stuffed tomatoes, celery ; peach cobbler, fruit. Supper. — Hot cream 
biscuit, cold chicken pie, baked apples, ribbon cake. 

23. Breakfast. — Mutton chops, potatoes, corn oysters, vegetable 
salad. Dinner. — Soup, fried gumbo, sweet potatoes, scalloped toma- 
toes, onions, celery, apple sauce ; lemon pie, fruit. Supper. — Egg sand- 
wiches, hot buns, preserved blackberries, delicate cake, ice cream. 

24. Breakfast. —Indian meal gems, chicken toast, creamed potatoes, 
fruit. Dinner. — Soup, boiled salmon, plum jelly, vegetables ; peach 
pie, frosted fruit. Supper. — Broiled trout, potato salad, preserved dam- 
sons, cake. 

25. Breakfast. — Veal cutlets, breaded, oatmeal mush, cream, corn 
fritters, baked apples. Dinner. — Soup, roast beef, mashed potatoes, 
succotash, eggplant; squash pie. Supper. — Salmon salad, brown bread, 
stewed pears, tapioca cream, cake. 

26. Sunday. Breakfast. — California breakfast food, cream, eggs, 
fried tomatoes, Lyonnaise potatoes, melons. Dinner. — Fried chicken, 
cream gravy, brown bread, tomato salad ; cake, pineapple sherbet, 
grapes. Supper. — Sliced ham, Saratoga chips, brown bread, peaches, 
cake. 

27. Breakfast. — Meat toast, fried potatoes, gems, sliced tomatoes, 
fruit. Dinner. — Soup, cold roast beef, corn, baked onions, sweet pota- 
toes; apple pie, fruit. Supper. — Dried beef in cream, baked potatoes, 
baked pears, custard, cake. 



A YEAR'S MENU. 547 

28. Breakfast. — Lyonnaise potatoes, beefsteak, muffins, fruit. Din- 
ner. — Veal pot pie, potatoes, tomato salad, peach pyramid, cake. Sup- 

"pee. — Broiled fish, fried sweet potatoes, toasted muffins, charlotte russe. 

29. Breakfast. — Rolled rye, cream, warmed-over veal pie, creamed 
potatoes, crullers, apple sauce. Dinner. — Soup, prairie chicken, pota- 
toes, egg-plant, corn, cauliflower, cranberry sauce; apple pie, fruit. 
Supper. — Lamb chops, sweet potatoes, baked pears, blancmange, cake. 

30. Breakfast.— Broiled bacon, eggs, Johnny cake, fried tomatoes, 
Dinner. — Soup, roast lamb, mint sauce, onions, potatoes, green corn 
pudding, cabbage salad; brown Betty, fruit. Supper. —Cold lamb, 
creamed potatoes, cinnamon buns, cottage cheese, baked peaches, cake. 

OCTOBER. 

1. Breakfast. — Cracked wheat, cream, codfish balls, fruit fritters, 
melon. Dinner. — Baked pickerel, cream sauce, boiled potatoes, scal- 
loped tomatoes, fried eggplant, spiced currants ; apple dumplings, fruit. 
Supper. — Lobster salad, potato croquettes, cream biscuit, grape sauce, 
cake. 

2. Breakfast. — Fried wheat mush, meat toast, creamed potatoes, 
Buckeye pop-overs. Dinner. — Soup, boiled mutton, caper sauce, pota- 
toes, rice, tomatoes, corn ; plum cobbler. Supper. — Pickerel shredded 
in cream, French potatoes, baked apples, pound cake. 

3. Sunday. Breakfast. — Beefsteak, creamed potatoes, corn fritters, 
fruit. Dinner. — Raw oysters, baked chickens, sweet potatoes, succo- 
tash, tomato salad, celery ; ice cream, cake. Supper. — Sardines, gra- 
ham bread, peaches, cake. 

4. Breakfast. — Broiled bacon, eggs, corn-meal gems, fried potatoes. 
Dinner. — Cold boiled mutton, browned potatoes, rice croquettes, scal- 
loped tomatoes, jelly ; gooseberry pie. Supper. — Chicken salad, baking 
powder biscuit, baked pears, cake. 

5. Breakfast. — Lancashire pie, graham gems, sliced tomatoes, melon. 
Dinner.— Roast beef, mashed potatoes, turnips, eggplant, spice peaches; 
puff pudding, fruit. Supper.— Cold tongue, potato balls, rolls, baked 
apples, chocolate blancmange, snowball cake. 

6. Breakfast. — Oatmeal, cream, meat toast, French potatoes, rusk, 
coffee cake, fruit. Dinner. — Oyster soup, fried prairie chicken, baked 
potatoes, squash, tomato salad, celery ; apple meringue, cake. Supper. 
— Cold beef, creamed potatoes, baked quinces, cream puffs. 

7. Breakfast.— Fried oatmeal, roast beef in gravy, sweet potatoes. 
Dinner. — Soup, stuffed roast veal, jelly, mashed potatoes, diced turnips, 
buttered beets, celery ; sweet potato pudding, fruit. Supper. — Cold 
veal, fried sweet potatoes, lettuce salad, baked pears, cake. 

8. Breakfast. — Fried fish, cup potatoes, fried apples. Dinner. — 
Fish chowder, baked sweet potatoes, fried tomatoes, celery, olives ; ap- 
ple pie. Supper. — Broiled oysters, Saratoga chips, pop-overs, velvet 
cream, white cake. 

9. Breakfast. — Warmed-over chowder, French potatoes, muffins, 
fruit. Dinner.— Bean soup, veal pie, mashed potatoes, stewed tomatoes, 
corn ; rice pudding. Supper. — Beefsteak, potato croquettes, tea biscuit. 
stewed pears, fig cake. 

10. Sunday. Breakfast. — Baked beans, brown bread, baked apples, 
cream. Dinner.— Oyster soup, roast duck, currant jelly, mashed pota- 
toes, squash, cabbage salad ; fruit compote, cake. Supper. — Beefsteak, 
toast, baked pears, whipped cream, cake. 



548 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

11. Breakfast. — Mutton chops, fried potatoes, graham gems, dough- 
nuts. Dinner. — Smothered beef, browned potatoes, succotash, beets ; 
squash pie, fruits. Supper. — Cold duck, potato cakes, spiced currants, 
lemon fritters. 

12. Breakfast. — Hash, fried okra, Sally Lunn, apple sauce. Din- 
ner. — Boiled mutton, caper sauce, steamed potatoes, rice, stewed toma- 
toes; lemon pudding, fruit. Supper. — Meat toast, Lyonnaise potatoes, 
blancmange, cake. 

13. Breakfast. — Beefsteak, fried potatoes, tomato fritters, fruit. 
Dinner. — Soup, mutton pie, rice fritters, baked potatoes, cold slaw ; 
grape pie. Supper. — Omelet, muffins, damson preserve, whipped 
cream cake. 

14. Breakfast. — Cracked wheat, cream, baked apples, scrambled 
eggs, fried potatoes, crullers. Dinner. — Roast beef, mashed potatoes, 
onions, tomato fritters ; Hainburg cream, cake. Supper. — Scotch 
woodcock, sweet potatoes, raspberry jam, cup custards. 

15. Breakfast. — Creamed codfish, baked potatoes, fried apples. 
Dinner. — Boiled trout, tomato sauce, steamed potatoes, Heidelberg cab- 
bage, corn ; peach meringue, cake. Supper.— Egg fondu, muffins, al- 
mond custard, cake. 

16. Breakfast. — Grits, cream, roast beef in gravy, potatoes, toasted 
muffins, fruit. Dinner.' — Soup, beefsteak smothered in onions, baked 
potatoes, scalloped tomatoes, cold slaw ; orange compote, cake. Sup- 
per. — Panned oysters, Saratoga chips, French rolls, jellied apples, 
sponge cake. 

17. Sunday. Breakfast. — Tomatoes on toast, egg gems, sweet pota- 
toes, fruit. Dinner. — Broiled pheasant, currant jelly, mashed potatoes, 
onions, tomato salad ; charlotte russe, confections. Supper. — Cold 
pheasant, toasted rolls, plum jelly, cornstarch blancmange, cake. 

18. Breakfast. — Meat toast, fried sweet potatoes, stewed tomatoes. 
Dinner.— Soup, veal cutlets, scalloped tomatoes, squash, mashed pota- 
toes; rice pudding, jellied pears. Supper. — Fruit fritters, veal loaf, 
custard, spice cake. 

19. Breakfast. — Wheat granules, cream, fried oysters, feather rolls, 
fruit. Dinner. — Fried partridge, apple sauce, sweet potatoes, corn, 
cabbage salad, celery ; squash pie, fruit meringue. Supper. — Veal loaf, 
Lyonnaise potatoes, fried apples, moonshine, cake. 

20. Breakfast. — Beefsteak, corn oysters, graham gems, baked ap- 
ples. Dinner. — Stuffed roast veal, jelly, rice croquettes, cauliflower, 
potatoes, celery ; batter pudding, fruit. Supper. — Sliced veal, candied 
sweet potatoes, grape jam, lemon cake. 

21. Breakfast. — Feather biscuit, broiled bacon, fried eggs, creamed 
potatoes, apple sauce. Dinner. — Tomato soup, potted pigeons, spiced 
peaches, celery, potatoes, mashed turnips, onions; -banana ice cream, 
sweet biscuits. Supper. — Cold veal, Saratoga chips, fried tomatoes, 
cream toast, chocolate cake. 

22. Breakfast. — Fried fish, corn dodgers, tomatoes. Dinner. — 
Boiled fish, parsley sauce, potatoes, turnips, beets, cabbage salad ; apple 
dowdy, cream. Supper. — Fish salad, baking powder biscuit, baked 
pears, lemon-jelly cake. 

23. Breakfast. — Graham gems, mutton chops, fried potatoes, baked 
apples. Dinner. — Boast beef, onions, squash, turnips, potatoes ; cocoa- 
nut pudding, chocolate cake, grapes. Supper. — Cold beef, French pota- 
toes, hot biscuit, baked pears, cake. 

24. Sunday. Breakfast. — Fried oysters, omelet, fried mush, melon. 



A YEAR'S MENU. 549 

Dinner.— >Roa§t duck, currant jelly, celery, sweet potatoes, lirna beans, 
tomato salad ; sliced peaches, ice cream, cake, confections. Suppeb. — 
Cold duck, Saratoga potatoes, spiced currants, orange custard, cake. 

25. Bkeakfast. — Meat toast, fried sweet potatoes, sliced tomatoes. 
Dinner. — Roast beef in gravy, Yorkshire pudding, browned potatoes, 
cauliflower ; apple sago pudding. Supper. — Broiled ham, fried toma- 
toes, fruit salad, cake. 

26. Breakfast. — Beefsteak, fried potatoes, batter cakes, fruit. Din- 
ner. — Soup, fried gumbo, boiled rice, scalloped tomatoes, celery ; but- 
tercup pudding, macaroons, fruit. Supper. — Cheese sandwiches, fried 
tomatoes, apple tapioca, cake. 

27. Breakfast. — Chicken toast, sweet potatoes, Sally Lunn, celery. 
Dinner. — Roast mutton, rice fritters, eggplant, potatoes, celery salad ; 
apple pie. Supper. — Ramakin toast, tomato salad, grape marmalade, 
jumbles. 

28. Breakfast. — Broiled bacon, omelet, corn-meal muffins, plum but- 
ter. Dinner. — Ragout of beef, potatoes, turnips, baked tomatoes, cel- 
ery ; rice pudding, fruit. Supper. — Chipped beef, creamed, baked po- 
tatoes, pop-overs, damson preserves, sweet biscuits. 

29. Breakfast. — Broiled mackerel, creamed potatoes, corn dodgers, 
baked apples. Dinner^ — Baked or boiled fish, steamed potatoes, 
creamed cabbage, buttered beets; Italian cream. Supper. — Scalloped 
oysters, ojives, cranberry jelly, whipped cream with preserves, cake. 

30. Breakfast. — Beef and vegetable hash, fried tomatoes, dough- 
nuts. Dinner. — Bean soup, mutton chops, scalloped tomatoes, rice, 
sweet potatoes, celery ; apple pie. Supper. — Raw oysters, sweet ome- 
let, celery, raised biscuit, preserve, cake. 

31. Sunday. Breakfast. — Baked beans, Boston brown bread, baked 
apples. Dinner. — Oyster soup, fried prairie chicken, cream gravy, 
cranberry sauce, celery, sweet potatoes, corn ; pumpkin and apple pie, 
confections. Supper. — Fried oysters, fried sweet potatoes, spiced 
peaches, velvet cream, cake. 

NOVEMBER. 

1. Breakfast. — Baked eggs, fried potatoes, cracked wheat, cream, 
apple fritters, celery. Dinner. — Soup, veal stew with dumplings, pota- 
toes, fried parsnips, tomatoes ; apple pie, grapes. Suppek. — Hot bis- 
cuit, honey, chicken salad, cookies, roll jelly cake. 

2. Breakfast. — Rolled oats, cream, toasted biscuit, veal toast, 
creamed potatoes, baked apples. Dinner.— Soup, roast duck, apple 
sauce, browned potatoes, squash, onions; steamed plum pudding, fruits. 
Supper. — Light rolls, stewed peaches, duck on toast, whipped cream 
cake. 

3. Breakfast. — Fried oatmeal mush, wheaten gems, Hamburger 
8teak, fried potatoes, grape jam, doughnuts. Dinner. — Vegetable soup, 
fried pickerel, baked potatoes, stewed tomatoes, corn, currant jelly ; 
squash pie. SUPPER. — Mutton chops, sweet potatoes, peach shortcake. 

4. Breakfast — Fish cakes, corn fritters, baked apples, doughnuts. 
Dinner. — Soup, game pic, mashed potatoes, onions, cabbage salad, wild 
plum sauce, celery ; apple pie. Supper. — Cold game pie. Saratoga chips, 
hot biscuit, honey, layer cake. 

5. Breakfast. — Rolled wheat, cream, scrambled eggs, fried potatoes, 
eorn-meal gems, baked apples, fruit cookies. Dinner. — Soup, fresh 
halibut, boiled, steamed potatoes, tomatoes, onions, celery ; baked In- 



550 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

dian pudding, quince sauce, fruit. Suppek. — Hot biscuit, fish salad, 
warmed potatoes, preserved damsons, cake. 

6. Breakfast. — Bacon, eggs, creamed potatoes, pancakes, maple 
syrup, fried apples. Dinner. — Roast pork, apple sauce, browned pota- 
toes, tomatoes, mashed turnips, onions ; lemon pie, fruit. Suppek. — 
Brown bread, broiled chicken on toast, preserved gages, cake. 

7. Sunday. Breakfast. — Brown bread, baked beans, apple butter, 
celery, doughnuts. Dinner. — Oyster soup, cold pork, sweet potatoes, 
chicken salad ; squash pie, fruit, confections. Supper. — Scalloped oys- 
ters, Saratoga chips, peaches, cream, sponge cake. 

8. Breakfast. — Hominy, cream, omelet, fried potatoes, celery. Din- 
ner. — Beefsteak, baked potatoes, corn, tomatoes, cabbage salad ; apple 
pie. Supper. — Brown toast, minced beef omelet, jam, cake. 

9. Breakfast. — Fried hominy, breakfast stew, fried tomatoes, crul- 
lers. Dinner. — Soup, boiled shoulder of mutton, potatoes, tomatoes, 
beets, carrots, rice ; apple dumpling, grapes. Supper. — Cold tongue, 
potato salad, rice fritters, preserves, celery, cake. 

10. Breakfast. — Cracked wheat, cream, jam, mutton toast, vegeta- 
ble hash. Dinner. — Soup, cold mutton, baked potatoes, mashed turnip, 
vegetable salad; pumpkin pie. Supper. — Sweet potatoes, broiled ba- 
con, spiced peaches, blancmange, sweet biscuit. 

11. Breakfast. — Rolled wheat, cream, pancakes, syrup, Lancashire 
pie, fruit. Dinner. — Soup, chicken pie, mashed potatoes, squash, on- 
ions, cranberry sauce, celery ; apple tapioca, fruit. Supper. — Waffles, 
scalloped oysters, grape jelly, cake. 

12. Breakfast. — Oatmeal, cream, gems, chicken pie, creamed pota- 
toes, doughnuts Dinner. — Cream soup, boiled fish, egg sauce, boiled 
potatoes, tomatoes, fried parsnips ; cottage pudding, grape pie. Supper. 
— Oysters A la creme, buttermilk biscuit, raspberry-jam shortcake. 

13. Breakfast. — Fried oatmeal mush, warmed biscuit, fish balls, 
doughnuts. Dinner. — Soup, pork chops, apple sauce, baked potatoes, 
tomatoes, squash ; apple dowdy, fruit. Supper. — Biscuit, meat omelet, 
baked sweet apples, cream, cake. 

14. Sunday. Breakfast. — Broiled chicken on toast, brown bread, 
doughnuts. Dinner. — White soup, roast beef, mashed potatoes, tur- 
nips, onions, celery ; squash pie, nuts and raisins. Supper. — Saratoga 
chips, oysters on half shell, baked sweet apples, cream, cake. 

15. Breakfast. — Cerealine flakes, cream, potato cakes, sausage, 
brown bread, doughnuts. Dinner. — Tomato soup, veal stew with dump- 
lings, baked potatoes, scalloped salsify, cabbage salad ; brown Betty, 
fruit. Supper. — Steamed bread, broiled pigeons, potato cakes, coddled 
apples, cake. 

16. Breakfast. — Rolled wheat, cream, sweet potatoes, pigeon on 
brown toast, fried apples. Dinner. — Soup, venison fricassee, browned 
potatoes, cauliflower, succotash, tomatoes, currant jelly; pumpkin pie, 
fruit. Supper. — Venison steak, fried potatoes, succotash, preserved 
plums, cake. 

17. Breakfast.— Oatmeal, cream, veal toast, drop cakes, crullers. 
Dinner. — Soup, roast mutton, mashed potatoes, rice, squash, cauli- 
flower; apple dumpling, fruit. Supper. — Sweet potatoes, mutton, cel- 
ery, apple tapioca, cake. 

18. Breakfast. — Lancashire pie, baked apples, cream, doughnuts. 
Dinner. — Raw oysters, roast duck, currant jelly, potatoes, rice, toma- 
toes; baked Indian pudding, apple pie. Supper. — Cream biscuit, cold 
duck, apple sauce, spice cake. 



A YEAR'S MENU. 551 

19. Breakfast. — Breakfast food, cream, toasted crackers, duck, po- 
tato cakes, rice fritters. Dinner. — Soup, baked white fish, vegetables, 
plum jelly ; sweet potato pudding, grapes. Supper. — Toasted white fish, 
fried potatoes, quince preserves, jelly cake. 

20. Breakfast. —Cracked wheat, cream, meat toast, potato cakes, 
crullers. Dinner. — Corned beef with vegetables, salad ; apple and cus- 
tard pie, fruit. Supper. — Tea rolls, sliced beef, baked potatoes, celery, 
blancmange, cake. 

21. Sunday. Breakfast.— Fried oysters, fried potatoes, toast, spiced 
peaches. Dinner. — Fish chowder, vegetables ; squash and apple pie, 
confections. Supper.— Eggs, brown bread, honey, Washington pie. 

22. Breakfast. — Cracked wheat, cream, corned beef hash, fruit. 
Dinner. — Soup, partridge pie, cranberry sauce, salsify, mashed turnips, 
potatoes ; rice pudding. Supper. — Warmed partridge pie, pop-overs, 
preserve puffs. 

23. Breakfast. — Fried mush, hash, brown toast, crullers. Dinner. 
— Soup, fried pickerel, baked potatoes, tomatoes, corn, lima beans ; lemon 
pudding, fruit. Supper. — Fried oysters, Saratoga chips, dried blueberry 
biscuit, whipped cream cake. 

24. Breakfast. — Pork chops, creamed potatoes, Johnny cake, baked 
apples, cookies. Dinner. — Pot roast, apple sauce, baked potatoes, 
creamed cabbage, mashed turnip, succotash ; apple pie. Supper. — 
Head cheese, warmed potatoes, fruit fritters, soft gingerbread, water- 
melon preserves. 

25. Thanksgiving. Breakfast. — Oatmeal, cream, fricasseed chicken 
on toast, sweet potatoes, doughnuts, fruit. Dinner. — Raw oysters, 
soup, roast turkey, chicken pie, cranberry sauce, sweet and mashed po- 
tatoes, turnips, squash, onions, cabbage salad, celery ; plum pudding, 
varieties of pie, ice cream or fancy cream, cake, fruit, nuts and raisins, 
confections. Supper. — Oysters, cheese sandwiches, jelly. 

26. Breakfast. — Beefsteak, potato hash, buttered toast, tomato frit- 
ters. Dinner. — Soup, turkey in gravy, cranberry sauce, candied sweet 
potatoes, macaroni with cheese ; cold plum pudding with cream. Sup- 
per. — Scalloped turkey, celery salad, peaches, cream, cake. 

27. Breakfast. — Graham gems, broiled mackerel, potato cakes, 
toasted biscuit, grape jelly. Dinner. — -Turkey soup, venison steak, 
cranberry sauce, squash, cauliflower, baked potatoes ; custard pie. Sup- 
per. — Parker House rolls, broiled fish, Lyonnaise potatoes, canned fruit, 
cake. 

28. Sunday. Breakfast. — Brown bread, baked beans, celery, crul- 
lers, grapes. Dinner. — Raw oysters, fried prairie chickens on toast, 
browned potatoes, cabbage salad ; pumpkin pie, confectionery. Supper. 
— Bread, milk, toasted cheese, raspberry meringue, cake. 

29. Breakfast. — Cracked wheat, cream, beefsteak, creamed potatoes, 
doughnuts. Dinner. — Soup, roast pork, apple sauce, mashed potatoes, 
onions, creamed cabbage ; squash pie. Supper. — Omelet, potatoes, 
brown bread, honey, cake. 

30. Breakfast. — Rolled oats, cream, cold pork, cup potatoes, apple 
fritters, doughnuts. Dinner. — Roast duck, currant jelly, potatoes, 
squash, baked onions, cabbage salad ; fruit roll, oranges. Supper. — ■ 
Scalloped oysters, spiced currants, hot biscuit, cornstarch blancmange. 



552 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

DECEMBER. 

1. Breakfast. — Oatmeal, cream, rolls, baked apples, pork chops, 
browned potatoes. Dinner. — Soup, baked sparerlb, mashed potatoes, 
squash, onions, cabbage salad ; apple pie, fruit. Supper. — Hamburger 
steak, creamed potatoes, jam, cake. 

2. Breakfast. — Buckwheat cakes, sausage, Lyonnaise potatoes, fried 
bread. Dinner. — Soup, roast ducks, apple sauce, browned potatoes, 
mashed turnips, beets; brown Betty, fruit. Supper. — Cold sparerib, 
potato cakes, tea biscuit, peaches, cream, cake. 

3. Breakfast. — Hominy croquettes, rolls, apple butter, cold duck, 
fried potatoes, doughnuts. Dinner. — Fish chowder, scalloped toma- 
toes, lima beans, celery, lemon jelly ; cranberry pie, squash pie, fruit. 
Supper. — Hot biscuit, scalloped oysters, potato balls, baked apples, cake. 

4. Breakfast. — Rolled rye, cream, graham gems, warmed chowder, 
apple butter, doughnuts, fruit. Dinner. — Corned beef with vegetables; 
Indian pudding, apple dumpling. Supper. — Brown bread, corned beef 
hash, fried apples, blancmange, cake. 

5. Sunday. Breakfast. — Breakfast sausage, brown toast, buckwheat 
cakes, fruit. Dinner.— Soup, roast venison, mashed potatoes, toma- 
toes, celery, apple sauce ; fig pudding, lemon sauce, nuts, raisins, candy. 
Supper. — Cup potatoes, cold venison, canned fruit, cake. 

6. Breakfast. — Johnny cake, beef and vegetable hash, apple butter, 
doughnuts. Dinner. — Baked veal, succotash, potatoes, tomatoes, cran- 
berry sauce ; pandowdy, cream. Supper. — Venison toast, sweet pota- 
toes, grape jelly, cake. 

7. Breakfast. — Oatmeal, cream, veal patties, Sally Lunn, dough- 
nuts. Dinner. — Ox-tail soup, fried pickerel, baked potatoes, mashed 
turnips, tomatoes ; cranberry pie, sago pudding. Supper. — Rolls, 
broiled partridge on toast, Saratoga chips, baked apples, cake. 

8. Breakfast, — Oatmeal fritters, fried apples, partridge warmed in 
cream, fried potatoes, celery, little fruitcakes. Dinner. — Soup, stuffed 
roast pork, plum jelly, browned potatoes, squash, onions, tomatoes ; 
lemon pudding, apple pie. Supper. — Cold pork, potato cakes, biscuit, 
canned apricots, cake. 

9. Breakfast. — Rolled rye, cream, apple fritters, breakfast stew. 
Dinner. — Oyster stew, roast mutton, potatoes, rice, tomatoes ; pumpkin 
pie. Supper. — Oysters on toast, celery, candied sweet potatoes, cheese 
cakes. 

10. Breakfast. — Corn, meal gems, broiled mackerel, stewed potatoes, 
pickled beets, crullers. Dinner. — Rice soup, baked or boiled fish, cran- 
berry sauce, baked potatoes, diced turnips, rice fritters; fruit roll, cus- 
tard cake. Supper. — Stewed oysters, cold mutton, cabbage salad, po- 
tato cakes. 

11. Breakfast. — Cold roast pork, potato souffle^ buckwheat cakes, 
grapes. Dinner. — Chicken fricassee, currant jelly, baked potatoes, 
cauliflower, onions; apple snow, squash pie. Supper. — Brown bread, 
Boston baked beans, cold slaw, currant buns. 

12. Sunday. Breakfast. — Oatmeal, cream, brown bread, Boston 
baked beans, doughnuts, fruit. Dinner. — Raw oysters, roast turkey, 
cranberry sauce, vegetables ; mince pie, charlotte russe. Supper. — 
Brown toast, turkey, cold venison, jelly, cake. 

13. Breakfast. — Rolled rye, cream, venison toast, fried potatoes, 
plum butter, crullers. Dinner. — Turkey heated, cranberry sauce, 



A YEAR'S MENU. 553 

baked potatoes, corn fritters, celery; apple pie. Supper. — Omelet, fried 
sweet potatoes, soft gingerbread. 

14. Breakfast. — Breakfast bacon, cold turkey, fried cabbage, potato 
cakes, corn dodger. Dinner. — Soup, meat pie, currant jelly, sweet po- 
tatoes, corn, cold slaw ; cranberry pie, ribbon cake. Supper. — Fried 
trout, fried potatoes, baking powder biscuit, fruit shortcake. 

15. Breakfast. — Minced turkey on toast, flannel cakes, baked apples. 
Dinner. — Vegetable soup, beefsteak, baked potatoes, mashed turnips, 
squash ; mince pie. Supper. — Oyster stew, Parker House rolls, cher- 
ries, pound cake. 

16. Breakfast. — Graham gems, potato hash, pork tenderloin, cur- 
rant jelly, doughnuts. Dinner. — Soup, chicken, cranberry jelly, pota- 
toes, fried parsnips, tomatoes; apple tapioca, sweet biscuits. Supper. — 
Oysters on the half shell, tea rolls, grape jelly, cake. 

17. Breakfast. — Cream toast, halibut steak, browned potatoes, spiced 
currants. Dinner. — Clam soup, boiled salt codfish, fried pork, butter 
and egg sauce, steamed potatoes, mashed turnip, cabbage salad ; apple 
dumpling. Supper. — Clam fritters, scalloped tomatoes, baked apples, 
cake. 

18. Breakfast. — Breakfast food, cream, steak, creamed potatoes, 
Sally Lunn, doughnuts, fruit. Dinner. — Bean soup, venison steak, 
cranberry jelly, onions, parsnips, potatoes; pumpkin pie. Supper. — 
Pressed meat, Saratoga potatoes, raised biscuit, honey, currant buns. 

19. Sunday. Breakfast. — Fish balls, brown bread, tomato fritters. 
Dinner. — Roast ducks, scalloped oysters, currant jelly, potatoes, onions, 
celery salad ; mince pie, fruit, confections. Supper. — Brown bread, 
cold duck, fried potato, blancmange, cake. 

20. Breakfast. — Oatmeal, cream, head cheese in batter, potato balls, 
brown toast, doughnuts. Dinner. —Roast sparerib, sage dressing, 
mashed potatoes, tomatoes, salsify, cold slaw, currant jam ; rice pud- 
ding. Supper. — Cold sparerib, potato salad, raspberry-jam shortcake. 

21. Breakfast. — Johnny cake, breakfast sausage, baked apples, 
cookies. Dinner. — Clam soup, roast rabbit, onions, Heidelberg cabbage, 
baked potatoes ; apple meringue. Supper. — Salmi of duck, potatoes, 
biscuit, canned cherries, lemon cake. 

22. Breakfast. — Rolled wheat, cream, gems, pork steak, cranberry 
jelly, potato balls, crullers. Dinner. — Tomato soup, corned beef with 
plum jelly, vegetables, brown bread ; orange pudding, cake. Supper. — 
Biscuit, rabbit stew, potato salad, canned peaches, cake. 

23. Breakfast. — Pancakes, maple syrup, vegetable hash, head cheese, 
baked apples. Dinner. — Pot-pie, baked potatoes, baked beets, baked 
squash, cold slaw; apple dumpling, fruit. Supper. — Welsh rarebit, 
fruit fritters, baked sweet apples and cream, cake. 

24. Breakfast. — Rolled oats, cream, fried potatoes, beefsteak, dough- 
nuts, fruit. Dinner. — Pea soup, baked shad, barberry jelly, vegetables; 
squash pie, mince pie. Supper. — Omelet, buttered toast, damson pre- 
serve, cake. 

25. Christmas. Breakfast. — Fruit, breakfast food, cream, broiled 
oysters on toast, fried chicken, sweet potatoes, waffles, honey. Din- 
ner. — Raw oysters, Julienne soup, roast pig, currant jelly, roast goose, 
apple sauce, mashed potatoes, turnips, onions, salad, celery ; Christmas 
plum pudding, mince pie, lemon pie, fancy cakes, ices, fruits, nuts, rai- 
sins. Supper. — Vienna rolls, jellied chicken, preserved fruit, charlotte 
russe. 



554 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

26. Sunday. Breakfast. — Fruit, cold goose, creamed potatoes, apple 
fritters. Dinner. — Celery soup, cold roast pig, quail on toast, potatoes, 
squash, scalloped tomatoes ; icecream, cake. Supper. — Buttered toast, 
jellied chicken, cake, preserve. 

27. Breakfast. — Rolled wheat, cream, sausage, potato cakes, fried 
apples, buckwheat cakes. Dinner. — Soup, beefsteak, baked potatoes, 
canned corn, chicken salad ; mince pie. Supper. — Brown toast, cold 
roast pig, potato salad, celery, cake. 

28. Breakfast. — Pried mush, syrup, liver and bacon, apple butter, 
baked potatoes, raised doughnuts. Dinner. — Oyster soup, fried trout, 
steamed potatoes, buttered beets, macaroni with cheese, cabbage salad ; 
plum pudding, fruit. Supper.— Hot rolls, fried oysters, Saratoga chips, 
spiced peaches, damson preserve, pound cake. 

29. Breakfast. — Cream toast, veal sweetbreads, potato croquettes, 
baked apples. Dinner. — Mutton broth with macaroni, boiled mutton, 
caper sauce, mashed potatoes, canned peas, scalloped tomatoes, barberry 
jelly, celery ; apple pie. Supper. — Potato croquettes, cold mutton, 
raspberry-jam shortcake. 

30. Breakfast. — Rolled oats, cream, graham gems, breaded veal cut- 
lets, cream gravy, baked potatoes, plum butter, doughnuts. Dinner. — 
Soup, roast beef or chicken, cranberry sauce, mashed potatoes, salsify, 
canned corn, celery ; cocoanut pudding, tarts. Supper. — Fried pota- 
toes, mutton toast, grape jelly, assorted cakes. 

31. Breakfast. — Fried oysters, coddled eggs, Lyonnaise potatoes, 
waffles, maple syrup, fruit. Dinner. — Cream of corn, boiled fish, Hol- 
landaise sauce, steamed potatoes, succotash, scalloped tomatoes, celery ; 
lemon pudding. Supper. — Fricasseed oysters, celery, cabbage salad, 
waffles, honey. 

Note. — These bills of fare are made with special reference to the or- 
dinary routine of the week in the kitchen, the meals for each day being 
planned to save labor and fuel, and to interfere as little as possible with 
the special work of tbe day. Thus Monday's bill of fare will not fit 
any other day of the week, if Monday is set apart as washing day. The 
housekeeper should aim at variety in successive meals rather than in 
the same meal ; remember that a few dishes nicely cooked and served, 
make a far more attractive dinner than many dishes poorly cooked and 
served 

MENU FOR SPECIAL OCCASIONS. 

A knowledge of the variety of food suitable for particular entertain- 
ments, or the amount necessary for a given number of guests, greatly 
facilitates in making arrangements or estimating the expense. The 
following information is given to meet such requirements: 

New Year's Reception. — The table should be handsomely arranged 
and decorated, and selections may be made from the following : Scal- 
loped oysters, cold tongue, turkey, chicken, ham, pressed meats, boned 
turkey, jellied chicken ; finger rolls, sandwiches, sandwich rolls ; 
chicken salad, lobster salad, cabbage salad garnished with fried oysters; 
pickled oysters, French, Spanish or bottled pickles ; jellies ; charlotte 
russe, ice creams, ices ; two large, handsome cakes for table decoration, 
baskets of fancy cakes and mixed cake ; fruits ; nuts ; confections ; 
coffee, chocolate with whipped cream, Russian tea, lemonade. 

Wedding Reception. — Sandwiches, salads, cheese straws, olives, 



MENU FOR SPECIAL OCCASIONS. 555 

_cakes, ice cream in bricks, sherbet, bonbons, salted almonds or salted 
peanuts, tea, coffee and chocolate. Serve the guests at small tables 
seating two, four or six persons. These should be supplied with the 
requisite number of spoons, forks and napkins needed, also with a 
creamer and sugar bowl. The long table in the dining-room should 
have the menu placed upon it, taking care not to overload, and replen- 
ishing from the pantry. 

Small Evening Parties, Receptions, Sociables, etc.— Sandwiches, 
finger rolls, a variety of cake, or fancy cakes, jellies, ice cream or ices, 
coffee, chocolate, tea, fruit. For a more elaborate entertainment add 
lobster or salmon salad, chicken croquettes, pickled oysters. 

For Taventy People. — Allow one gallon of oysters, four chickens 
and eight bunches of celery for chicken salad, fifty sandwiches, or sixty 
finger rolls ; two quarts of orange or lemon jelly, one white cake, one 
fruit cake, one pound or sponge cake, one layer cake, half a pound of 
macaroons, two dozen kisses and chocolate eclairs, two moulds, or 
twenty-four individual forms of charlotte russe, one gallon of ice cream, 
in bricks, one gallon of coffee. 

For One Hundred People. — More elaborate preparations are in 
good form. Two gallons of oysters, raw or pickled, one gallon of lob- 
ster or chicken salad, two small hams sliced, three tongues sliced, ten 
chickens jellied or pressed, one and one-half gallon of homemade, or 
two gallons of bottled pickles, twelve dozen finger rolls, five quarts of 
jelly, fifteen large cakes, fruit, delicate, pound, sponge, white and layer 
cakes, ten dozen each of macaroons, kisses, eclairs, cocoanut cones, four 
gallons of ice cream in bricks, five large baskets of fruit, five gallons of 
coffee, two gallons of Russian tea, four gallons of iced lemonade. 

For One Hundred and Seventy-five People. — Six gallons of oys- 
ters, three small hams, five turkeys, five tongues, six four-pound chickens 
and twelve bunches of celery for salad, three gallons of pickles, twenty 
dozen finger rolls, twelve loaves of bread made in sandwich rolls, eight 
quarts of jelly, twenty large cakes, fifteen dozen each of macaroons, kisses, 
eclairs, cocoanut cones, etc., seven gallons of ice cream in bricks, four 
gallons of fruit ice or sherbet, fifteen dozen each of oranges, pears, and 
bananas, thirty pounds of grapes, eight gallons of coffee, three gallons 
of Russian tea, six gallons of lemonade. 

Spring Picnics.— Cold roast chicken, sardines, pressed corned beef, 
tongue, hard-boiled eggs, stuffed or deviled eggs, Saratoga potatoes, 
Boston brown bread, butter rolls, meat or cheese sandwiches, salad, 
sweet or sour pickles, chowchow, jelly, jams, doughnuts, sweet biscuits, 
cake, coffee, tea, lemonade, oranges, bananas. 

Summer Picnics. — Cold baked or broiled chicken, any variety of cold 
meat, veal loaf, deviled or picnic eggs, pickled salmon, clam bake, salad, 
rolls, bread, Saratoga potatoes, tomatoes, pickles, sweet pickles, jelly, 
cake, sweet biscuits, ice cream or sherbet, coffee, lemonade, raspberry 
shrub, small fruits, melons. 

Fall Picnics. — Broiled prairie chicken, cold roast chicken or veal, 
pot of baked beans, fish chowder, clam chowder, clams roasted or fried, 
egg sandwiches, deviled eggs, Boston brown bread, rolls, rusk, potatoes 
roasted in the ashes, piccalilli, mangoes, marmalade, baked apples, jelly, 
doughnuts, cake, coffee, lemonade, melons, fruit. 

Provide two baskets for picnics, one for the provisions and the other for 
dishes (wooden ones are best) and utensils, but limit- the contents of the 
second basket as far as possible. Use a paper pail for water, carry but- 
ter, if any amount, in a tin box, as well as su^gar, salt *nd pepper. 



ALL AROUND THE HOUSE. 

THE earl} T necessity which was the source of the provei'b < ' An 
Englishman's house is his castle," and expressed itself later 
in the phrase "Keep thine own house," took on a finer, sweeter, 
nobler meaning when John Howard Payne sang of ' ' Home, sweet 
home. " 

To-day it is recognized that true housekeeping implies home- 
keeping ; as the body is the home of the soul and worthless with- 
out it, so housekeeping is the body of which homekeeping is the 
soul, and neither fares well alone ; however, the home spirit will 
find expression under most untoward conditions, while the body is 
able to keep up only a mechanical action if it does not have the 
life-giving, home spirit to ennoble it. The ' 'soul should be kept on 
top, "and the cares and work of housekeeping held to their second- 
ary position. 

Whatever tends to the harmonious development and the real 
comfort of the home, however humble it maj* be, is worthy of be- 
ing well done. Carlyle says: "All true work is sacred; in all 
true work, were it but hand-labor, there is something of divine- 
ness," and quaint George Herbert tells us this principle 
" Makes drudgery divine; 

Who sweeps a room as for Thy laws, 
Makes that and the action fine." 

True housekeeping is a science to be studied, an art to be prac- 
ticed, and a grace to be developed, fostered, or acquired. It com- 
prehends all that goes to make a home where the sweetest, most 
enduring relations of life rest on firm foundations, and from which 
strength and inspiration are gained for noble living. 

CARE OF THE HOUSE. 

Great care should be taken in buying or renting a house, or 
rooms, to ascertain that the location is desirable, the plumbing 
good, the cellar built sanitarily, the rooms cheery and well venti- 
lated. 

556 



ALL AROUND THE HOUSE. 5 5 ' 

In furnishing, consult good taste as well as the needs of the oc- 
casion and the purse, and let the "fitness of things" regulate the 
selection. It is economy to purchase the best materials, if possi- 
ble, but it is poor economy to run in debt. 

The stoves— if grates or fireplaces are not used— should be of 
the kind that may be thrown open or closed at pleasure. If a fur- 
nace is used, take care that the rooms are not kept too hot, and 
that there is thorough ventilation, for the health of the family de- 
pends as much on the quality of the air they breathe as the food 
they eat. To waste heat is not so bad as to waste health and vigor, 
and fuel is always cheaper, on the score of economy, than doctor's 
bills. In furnace-heated houses there should always be grates or 
fireplaces in living or sleeping rooms ; and whenever the furnace 
heat is turned on, there should be a little fire to start the column 
of air in the chimney and secure ventilation. It is a common 
mistake to buy too small a furnace or other heating apparatus. 
This ought to be ample for the coldest weather, so that ordinarily 
it need not be kept up to ita full capacity. When a furnace is 
heated too hot, the little particles of dust afloat in the air are 
charred, and the air has a burnt flavor, as unwholesome as it is 
disagreeable. Without fire, chimneys are apt to draw down a cur- 
rent of cold air. If there are no grates or fireplaces, do not air 
rooms from the halls, but throw open the windows. The air from 
the halls, although cold, is not pure. House plants will not thrive 
well in furnace-heated houses where gas is burned, and human be- 
ings, especially the young and delicate, need quite as pure air as 
plants. In a study, or other room much occupied, the windows 
may be dropped during meals, and the room warmed anew before 
it is needed again. Let there be plenty of sunlight in every room, 
even if the carpets do fade ; and the housekeeper must be quick 
to note any scent of decay from vegetables or meats, or slops or 
refuse carelessly thrown about the premises. Many a case of 
fatal diphtheria or typhoid fever may be traced directly to the 
noxious vapors arising from decaying matter in a cellar, the out- 
side of which is fair to look upon, while the parlors and living 
rooms are kept with perfect neatness. Every room must be clear 



i 

558 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

and sweet. In sickness, care in all these respects must be in- 
creased. In damp and chill autumn and spring days, a little fire 
should be lighted morning and evening. 

The food for the family must be fresh to be wholesome, and it 
pays to buy the best material as there is less waste in it. No 
housekeeper should be satisfied with any but the best cooking ; and 
no considerations of economy should induce her to place on the 
table bread slightly sour, cake or pudding at all heavy or solid, or 
meat with the least taint. Their use means disease and costly 
doctor's bills. If children and servants do work improperly, the 
housekeeper should quietly insist on its being done correctly. Or- 
der and system mean the stopping of waste, and the economy of 
time as well as money. It requires good food to make good mus- 
cle and good brain, and the man or woman who habitually sits 
down to badby-cooked or scanty dinners, fights the battle of life at 
a great disadvantage. 

SWEEPING AND DUSTING. 

The sweeping and dusting of a room seems simple enough, but 
is best done systematically. Dusters, made of old prints or sheets, 
with which to cover books, statuettes, and articles difficult to dust, 
and larger ones to cover beds, are indispensable. Carpet sweep- 
ers are good for daily use, when thorough work is not required, 
but the house needs a thorough sweeping once a week. Before 
sweeping, open the blinds and let in the light, and open the win- 
dows if it is not storming or very wincby, and carry out as much 
furniture as possible. Look on the ceiling for cobwebs, and 
sprinkle the carpet with moistened bran, salt, or tea leaves. Clean 
the corners and edges with a sharp-pointed stick and stiff whisk- 
broom. Brush with a feather-duster all picture cords, frames, and 
curtains, and remove all cobwebs with a broom about which a 
towel has been pinned, going through all the rooms before remov- 
ing the towel ; begin from one corner to sweep toward the center 
with a short, light stroke, going slowly and carefully so as to raise 
no dust, and drawing, not pushing, the broom. The second time 
over, increase the length and force of the stroke, and the third, 



ALL AROUND THE HOUSE. 559 

brush with long and vigorous strokes, using care as the dirt at the 
center of the room is approached. In this way it will take twenty 
minutes to sweep a large room, but it will be clean, and the carpet 
will keep bright and fresh much longer, and wear better than if 
the dirt were allowed to grind out the fabric. Or the carpet may 
be swept with a dampened broom, from which all drops of water 
have been shaken, and then wiped over with a cloth wrung out 
very dry from water in which is a little ammonia. The wiping 
tends to brighten the colors as well as cleanse the carpet. After 
the sweeping, remove the dusters carefully, carrying them out of 
doors ; rub, not simply wipe off, the furniture and other articles 
with a clean, soft, cotton cloth, or an old silk handkerchief, or a 
dusting-towel with fleecy surface which is sold expressly for this 
purpose, folding the dust in as it soils the cloth, and when it is 
filled with dust, shake it thoroughly out of doors. Managed in 
this way, curtains, furniture and carpets will never be loaded with 
dust, but will remain bright, clean and fresh from one year's end 
to another. If any spot of dust is too firml}- fixed, wash in luke- 
warm soapsuds, and immediately rub dry with chamois. If there 
is open-work carving, draw the cloth through, or dust with a paint- 
brush and it will be easier to blow out some of the places which 
are difficult to reach, with a small pair of bellows. To clean and 
dust a piano, use half a yard of good canton flannel with a nap 
free from all specks and grit ; if there are finger-marks or spots, 
rub up and down over them, keeping the nap next to the instru- 
ment. Keep the piano closed at night and in damp weather, but 
open on bright days, and if possible let the sun shine directly 
upon the keys, as the light will prevent their turning yellow. 
Have it tuned every spring and fall. As a finishing touch, leave 
late papers, magazines, a volume of poetry, drawings, or a stereo- 
scope and views, where they will be convenient to use. 

If the floors are of hard wood, or pine, oil-finished, wipe them 
with milk and water or clear water, and if a coat of oil-dressing is 
needed, apply it according to directions. The rugs should be well 
shaken weekly, unless very large and in a room not much in use 
but should never be laid on the floor until it is perfectly dry. 



560 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

Where matting is used, wipe it with moderately warm water and 
salt, in the proportion of a cup of salt to half a pail of water. 
Dry quickly with a soft cloth. Matting little used will need wash- 
ing but twice in a season. A scrapbag hung on the end of the 
sewing machine, for storing all bits of cloth, ravelings and ends 
of thread, will save much sweeping. Washing windows and wip- 
ing doors once a week after sweeping will make the house bright. 
Wipe off finger marks from doors with a damp cloth as soon as 
they show themselves. 

SLEEPING ROOMS. 

The family bedroom should be on the first floor, if the house is 
properly built and there is no dampness. It should have a closet, 
high above the reach of children, where is kept medicine, liniment, 
strips of old linen, bandages, etc. , for sudden sickness or accident. 
It should have a large closet, a part of which may be set apart for 
the little children's use, with low hooks where they may hang their 
clothes, a box for stockings, a bag for shoes, and other conven- 
iences, which will help to teach them system and order. All bed- 
ding should be the best that can be afforded. The inner husks of 
corn make a good unclerbed. Oat straw is excellent. Hair mat- 
tresses are best and, in the end, most economical. Mattresses of 
Spanish moss are cheaper than hair, but soon mat together. Those 
made of coarse wool are objectionable at first on account of the 
odor, but are serviceable and less costly than hair. With a woven- 
wire bed, a light mattress is all that is needed ; and this combina- 
tion is healthiest and best, because it affords the most complete 
exposure of the bedding to air. The best covering is soft woolen 
blankets. Comfortefs made of cotton should be used with great 
caution, as they need »to be frequently exposed to sun and air. 
The best comforter is made of cheesecloth or delaines, which may 
be partly worn, with wool instead of cotton quilted in. Beds 
should lie open for several hours even' morning, and at least once 
a week all the bedding should be thoroughly aired in wind and sun. 
The head of the bedstead should stand against the north, and the 
light from the windows should not fall directly upon the sleeper, 



ALL AROUND THE HOUSE. 56: ! 

neither should the sun's rays fall upon the mirror. Chambers 
should have transoms over the doors, and all the windows of the 
house so arranged as to be easily lowered or raised. In addition 
to one large bed or two single beds, as the case may be, the bu- 
reau, washstand, and towel rack, there should be a firm table for 
writing or working, a low chair, a rocker, other chairs according 
to the size of the room, and a large, oblong, covered box in which 
small articles may be kept, and stationary or hanging shelves for 
books, papers, etc. Let there be an abundance of towels on the 
rack, heavy, rough, bath towels, as well as those of finer quality, 
and at least two wash cloths. Keep the china in the sleeping room 
clean, and with fresh bureau and stand scarfs or towels the rooms 
will appear inviting though the furnishing may be very plain. 
The housekeeper should be competent not only to direct in all 
matters, but able personally to show an ignorant or careless helpei 
how they should be done. A kindhearted mistress may be unfah 
in her requirements through ignorance, and some servant mighl 
take advantage of her mistress' lack of practical knowledge. 

CLEANING OF THE HOUSE. 

High winds, multitudes of insects, and the many days of dry- 
ness and general dustiness of the whole year, make it imperative 
that the house be well cleaned spring and fall, though that will 
not obviate the necessity of keeping every room clean and orderly. 
Cleaning in the raw cold days of early spring disturbs everybody's* 
comfort, and ma}' endanger health, while late cleaning, after the 
spring daj-s come, gives moths an advantage, and adds much to 
the housekeeper's work and weariness. But the early da}-s may 
be utilized in the following manner to advantage : Take the vege» 
tables from the cellar, open the windows, sweep the floors, wall* 
and ceiling, and whitewash the two latter. Bring all portable 
shelves, boxes, and barrels, into the sun ; wash them if to be 
used again, or consign them to the woodpile. Bring up all empty 
jars with covers, and everything that will hold odors, dampness or 
mould, and make them sweet. This will inconvenience no one. 

Putting to rights piece-bags, cast-off clothing, boxes, trunk" 



562 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

and the baskets in the closets, greatly diminishes the regular 
cleaning. Empty old trunks and boxes, take them to the shed, 
and burn brimstone in them for an hour or two. The fumes will 
destroy any disease germs, or insect life that may lurk in them, 
and they will be ready to receive woolens and other things that 
must be packed away. Bring out and look over dresses, skirts, 
and men's clothing, that are not good enough to wear and too 
good to throw away. Give those away that are not needed, rip 
the others, clean and roll them up closely for the piece- bags which 
must be whole, clean, cotton bags. Old clothes hung away in 
closets, or thrown in a heap in the attic, hold moths, dirt, odors, 
and disease, and should not be tolerated. 

If the cold still lingers it is well to depart from the usual rule 
and give the kitchen a thorough cleaning. Look-after every dish, 
shelf, and paper bag. If possible paint, paper, and whitewash 
every available place, and thoroughly repair the whole. Wash 
every shelf with strong borax water, and cover with manilla paper 
or newspapers. These covers must be frequently changed, as they 
absorb odors. Screen the doors and windows, and when the warm 
weather comes keep them open as much as possible. Storm-doors 
and windows may be put on in cold climates after the fall cleaning. 

The regular cleaning should begin with the attic. Open the 
windows, and screen them with wire fine enough to keep out moths. 
Thoroughly clean the floor and walls. If sweeping will do it, 
that is enough ; but if not, scrub the floor with hot ammonia or 
borax water, and, with a whitewash brush, go over the walls and 
ceiling with a coat of lime-water, or simply hot ammonia water. 
Be careful in handling ammonia as the strong fumes are injurious. 
The old way of tacking clean newspapei*s closely upon the rafters, 
is good if the ceiling above it is first freed from dust, cobwebs, 
and possible moths. Some divide the attic, and line the walls and 
ceiling of one part with tarred paper. Across the closet-like 
room smooth poles may be placed, and bedding and woolens hung 
lightly over them are out of the way of mice and insects. These 
should be whipped lightly, with a rattan, every week in summer, 
and once a month during the winter. It will take but a few min- 



ALL AROUND THE HO (SI 563 

utes at a time. Wash the stairs carefully, brush and wash the 
doors, woodwork and windows. Repair and paint if need be, 
keeping the attic well closed. 

Begin the chambers with the guest-room. Remove every piece 
that can be washed, as pillowcases, sheets, light quilts, spreads, 
blankets, towels, tidies and curtains. If there are too many pieces 
for the weekly wash, take a separate day, but put them all through 
good hot soapsuds. Spread feather beds, mattresses, and heavy 
comforters on the fresh grass, or the line, and have them thor- 
oughly beaten ; if there are any soiled places on the beds and 
mattresses, cleanse them with a brush and ammonia water, and 
the comforters with a soft, white cloth. Carry out all the furni- 
ture that is not too heavy, and take the bedstead apart, dust, wash 
carefully with a soft cloth and clean water, and wipe dry. Polish 
with an old silk handkerchief. Chink all cracks and crevices 
around the bedstead, where bugs might hide, with brown carbolic 
soap, and give all the hidden parts a light coat of varnish. No 
bedbug, nor his future children, can get through soap and varnish, 
and many of the powders and acids deface nice furniture. A 
brush and hot ammonia water will drive off or kill all stray bugs 
on beds or comforters without leaving any odor. 

Lift the carpet, and if it be washable, wash it after it is beaten, 
that is, if it is not a new one. Two or three-ply ingrain, if all 
wool, will stand unlimited water from the hose, and look all the 
better for it. Wash the woodwork and the windows, inside and 
out, with good suds ; wash the floor with hot suds in which is am- 
monia ; chink the craoks around the edge of the floor with soap, 
or, if large, use papier-mache, made by boiling newspapers in hot 
water and adding a goodly amount of red pepper. Cover a broom 
with old, soft flannel, rub carefully the walls and ceiling, patch up 
any cracks in the paper, and fill cracks in the plaster with plaster 
of Paris, and kalsomine or paper the ceiling and walls. It is a 
good idea to paint the floor ; at least paint a strip around the edge 
six or ten inches wide, rubbing the paint well into all corners and 
cracks. Remove everything from the closet, and take the same 
precautions that have been taken with the room, washing, patch- 



564 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

ing, chinking, and carrying every garment into the sun to be 
looked over and aired. If still afraid of moths or disease germs, 
close the room tightly and burn brimstone in it for an hour, and, 
by opening the windows afterward, the odor will quickty escape. 
The smoke of brimstone will not injure the most delicate fabric. 
Lay fresh paper on the floor, as the old papers are full of dust and 
odors, and should not be used, unless thoroughly purified. Tack 
down the carpet, and put the room in order before cleaning an- 
other one. Close the doors tightly for fear of dust from the hall, 
and the other chambers. 

Clean each chamber separately, according to the above direc- 
tions. Paint, varnish and kalsomine where needed, and make 
every part of the room and article of furniture clean and sweet. 
The bathroom needs especial attention, and all drain-pipes should 
be filled with whole, deep traps, that no sewer gas ma}' escape 
into the room. There is here a positive need of fresh paint, var- 
nish, and a thorough scrubbing. No amount of copperas, or dis- 
infectants, can take the place of perfect cleanliness. 

All halls, closets, and stairways need the same attention that 
the bedrooms have had, and everj^thing in them needs the sun and 
fresh air, as sunlight and air are necessary to cleanliness. Screen 
all windows to keep out insects, and open the windows part of 
each day in such a manner as to make a draught, that is, open one 
at the bottom, and the other at the top. Or, insert a plain, three- 
inch tin pipe in the chimney at the top of the room, and let it 
come to within four inches of the floor. Open the window at the 
top, and hold a piece of paper under the pipe ; the air, going up 
from the floor, will almost snatch the paper from the hand. This 
is a cheap, but a sure way of carrying off the bad air from living 
rooms if the house is imperfectly ventilated, and will do no harm 
in any event. 

Clean the lower rooms one at a time. Remove all furniture, and 
if the carpets are ingrain they need to be taken up every spring, 
and thoroughly cleansed. This may or may not be done by a 
thorough beating ; if not, and they will not fade, turn the hose on 
them after beating, and dry quickly ; repair them. Carry the lin- 



ALL AROUND THE HOUSE. 56*) 

ing out of doors, sweep, and fumigate in a box if necessary. 
Beat lightly all furniture and draperies, and, with a furniture but- 
ton-brush, which runs to a sharp point, remove all dust from the 
upholstery ; with a soft brush and artists' paints touch lightly all 
rubbed or scarred places on the furniture ; polish, or oil with an 
oil that contains no adhesive element as raw linseed oil, and then 
polish with an old silk handkerchief. Paper, paint, or varnish ; 
polish the windows outside and inside with chamois. Tack down 
the carpet, and set the room in order. Every picture and bit of 
fancy work, all bric-a-brac and books need to be cleansed thor- 
ughly from dust, before their return to the room. 

Proceed with the hallways in the same manner, washing the 
woodwork, windows, and floors, and doing all needed repairing. 
If stoves are used, remove them to a dry place for the summer 
before the cleaning begins, and do not tie them up in cloths or 
paper; simply cover them. Oiling them will prevent possible rust. 
If there are no grates in the house it is well to leave one stove for 
use in chilly or damp weather. 

Not all carpets need to come up each year. Heavy tapestries 
and velvets ma}-, with care, be kept down two, or even three years. 
Lace curtains need doing up every spring, and, if possible, heavy 
draperies should be cleansed and put by until another winter, and 
thin ones, as Madras muslins or light grasscloths, used in their 
places. Sweep all walls and ceilings with a broom covered with a 
large, soft cloth, which should be changed when soiled ; and pro- 
vide for good ventilation, which cannot be had by simply opening 
a window or door. When carpets are not to be taken up, they 
should be thoroughly swept and wiped with the nap, with am- 
monia water, and dried with a clean cloth. Place a damp cloth 
around the edges and iron dry with a moderately hot iron to kill 
possible moths. 

» Before cleaning the dining-room, see that the sideboard, butfet 
or china closet is in order, the shelves, boxes or drawers renovated, 
the silver cleaned, the glass polished, the table linen looked over, 
its thin and worn pieces laid away to mend or to make into towels, 
and the china carefully wiped. Then clean the woodwork, win- 






566 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

dows and doors ; paint, paper and kalsomine if needed. Replenish 
articles where there is a deficiency ; a few new pieces of pretty, 
inexpensive glass and china will give the table fresh attraction for 
the summer. If the floor is not hard wood, or stained and oiled, 
cover it with linoleum or oilcloth. Hang the windows with shades, 
but allow no draperies, and see that they are well screened, as 
nothing is more disgusting than flies swarming about a table. Pro- 
vide, at least, a covering of white, fresh mosquito net for the ta- 
ble, if it is not to be cleared. 

Go over the kitchen for odds and ends that ma}- have accumu- 
lated. Throw out all kettles, basins and pans from which the 
lining or the tin has worn or burned off, and provide new ones. 
Scour the kettles, and clean the range or stove from all soot and 
ashes. Remove the pipe, and have the chimney cleaned. Give 
the inside of the sink, if of wood, at least three good coats of 
paint, and let it harden well before using. An iron sink should 
not be painted, but washed clean daily with hot suds. Now come 
the shed and yards. Look over the things that easily accumulate 
in an out-of-the-way place. Give away what may be of use to 
someone else, sell the rags, old rubbers, bottles, and other trash 
you can to the ragman, and finally have a bonfire to burn up ev- 
erything objectionable. If the shed is clear of rags, chips and 
sawdust, old shoes and decaying herbs, old paint and fruit cans, 
webs, spiders, and dust, it will save a good deal of filth from the 
house, as well as possible sickness. 

Rake the } r ards clean of dead leaves and grass. Any place in- 
clined to dampness needs a load of fresh earth, and something 
planted there to absorb the miasms. Do not tolerate the throwing 
out of slops, egg shells, and vegetable refuse. Pour the waste 
water around trees, and burn the other things up if there are no 
fowls or animals to eat them, and remember that trees, vines and 
flowers take up malaria, and convert it into bud, blossom, and life. 

Now that the house is clean, sweet and orderly, give a little time 
every day to keeping it so, and thus secure a larger degree of 
health and happiness. 



ALL AROUND THE HOUSE. 567 

THE CELLAR. 

In building a house, great attention should be given to the cel- 
lar, as the health and comfort of families are affected more or 
less by the condition of this important part of the home. Better 
have a small house well built, and a high, dry cellar, than a larger 
one with a damp, illy-ventilated cellar. Arrange for a basement 
under the whole house, eight feet deep and provided with win- 
dows large enough to keep the air pure, and not so large as to 
make it difficult to keep warm in winter. Screen all the windows 
with wire netting. Plaster the walls, as dust accumulates on a 
rough surface. An outside entrance, protected by double doors, 
renders it easier and cleaner, especially in a farmhouse, to store 
fruit and vegetables. In country houses it is well to provide a 
coal: shute, which may be kept in the coal bin. 

, The model cellar is divided into apartments by brick walls. The 
first room is used for the laundry, and a nice board floor covers the 
cement one. The walls and ceiling are plastered, and the wood- 
work painted. There is an iron sink with hot and cold water, tubs, 
stove, table, ironing-board, and all the conveniences for laundry 
work. An outside door and several windows give plenty of fresh 
air. Opening out of this room is a watercloset in good sanitary 
condition. Back of the laundry is the furnace room, and beyond 
that a room for wood. The coal room adjoins the furnace room. 
Farther on, the vegetable cellar, which is delightfully cool, and a 
large fruit pantry, with an outside window to keep the air pure, 
completes this ideal cellar. All the floors are cemented. The 
pantry is provided with shelves for jars and canned fruits. A 
dumb waiter comes down into this room so that fruit and vege- 
tables may be sent above with little trouble. During hot weather 
the meals are cooked in the laundry and sent up on the dumb 
waiter. This saves heating the house, and keeps it free from un- 
pleasant odors. 

As rats will burrow under a wall to get into a cellar, it is well 
to dig a trench, at the outer edge of the stone foundation or the 

inner brick walls, and fill it with broken glass, or tin edges, which 
any tinner will be glad to get rid of. These sharp materials will 
effectually keep out the rodents. 



b>68 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

In cold climates the walls should be built double, the inner wall 
of brick, leaving an air space of two inches between it and the 
outer wall ; sawdust or tan bark may be used to fill in the space, 
or it may be left as a simple air-chamber. 

In the vegetable apartment the bins should be made of dressed 
lumber and painted. If located in the center the contents may be 
easily examined and assorted. A strong slat frame a few inches 
high to hold barrels of fruit and vegetables, so the air can circu- 
late around them, is desirable. Experienced fruit growers say 
that apples keep much better in barrels than in bins. Have shelves 
two feet in width made of slats about two inches wide and placed 
one inch apart on which to set fruit which is too delicate to be 
kept in barrels. These shelves should be hung in the most airy 
part of the cellar. Pears ripen nicely under a cover of woolen 
blankets. 

A wire cupboard or shelf may be put up in the cellar pantry 
where pies, cakes, meats, etc., can be kept covered from ants, 
spiders, or other intruders. A quantity of tansy or motherwort, 
scattered about in the cellar and closets, will keep ants away. A 
coat of whitewash, once or twice a year, will freshen the cellar 
walls and remove any musty odor. A cellar should be kept as 
neat as a living-room, but to do this it must be examined fre- 
quently and all decayed fruits and vegetables disposed of at once. 
Eveiy spring and fall it should be thoroughly cleaned and disin- 
fected wiith copperas. Dissolve one pound of copperas in a pail 
of cold water, pour it into earthen bowls and place them in differ- 
ent parts of the cellar. Care must be taken that children do not 
meddle with the copperas-water, as it is poisonous. Another 
good disinfectant is lime, and if vegetables and fruits have been 
stored when damp, it should always be used, as it absorbs the 
moisture. 

The mistress of the house should visit her cellar every few days, 
and not leave it to the care of servants, as potatoes left to sprout, 
turnips, cabbages, and other vegetables to decay, germinate seri- 
ous diseases before the responsible members of the family are 
aware of danger. 



ALL AROUND THE HOUSE. 569 

Follow these directions as closely as possible and the cellar will 
be satisfactory. In any event, insist that the house be built on a 
good stone foundation to avoid the possibility of water standing 
in the cellar, and the sickness which it breeds. Only a flood can 
overcome the security of such a foundation. 

THE DINING-ROOM. 

This room should be as light, bright and attractive as possible, 
and every member of the family should endeavor to lay aside in- 
dividual vexations or trials before coming to the table, and unite 
to make the "breaking of bread" together not only a source of 
bodily refreshment but an hour of mutual pleasure and improve- 
ment. The mistress of the house must lead here, for it rests 
largely with her to determine what the character of the hour shall 
be. The plainest room may thus be made attractive, and the 
homeliest fare appetizing. All the appointments of the room and 
the table should possess the beauty of neatness and the grace of 
appropriateness. 

Let the table be the center of attraction. A round table five 
to seven feet in diameter is best adapted to conversational pur- 
poses, but the extension table, four feet wide and reaching any 
length desired, meets all requirements. An undercloth of white 
cotton plush, double-faced cotton flannel, or a silence cloth, of 
material manufactured expressl}- for this purpose, should cover the 
table to protect the polish of the wood and improve the appear- 
ance of the linen. 

The style of elaborate decoration is ever changing, but faintly 
perfumed or rare flowers, ferns, delicate vines, tinted leaves, and 
fruit are alwa}-s in good form, and delicate china, silver and glass 
add their own beauty if good taste presides over all. In some 
families a charming custom prevails of placing a flower daily be- 
side the plate of the mistress, if it is difficult to obtain more for 
the table. The linen should be as heavy and fine as circumstances 
permit. Fine drawn-work doilies, towels with drawn-work or lace 
borders, hemstitched centre-pieces, with napkins and cloth woven 
in beautiful designs, increase the attractiveness of the table, which 
should not be burdened with dishes. 



570 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

Ordinarily place the napkin at the right of the plate, or in 
place of the plate, and for dinner lay a roll or oblong piece of 
bread within its folds, and the knives, forks and spoons necessary 
to a given number of courses, at each side. The particular man- 
ner of serving varies with time and place, but if the "small, 
sweet courtesies " are the family habit, with a quick perception of 
the " fitness of things, " there will be little difficulty in meeting 
the requirements of special occasions. 

Good breeding is never more apparent than at the table, and if 
the example of the parents is correct, and they are uniformly court- 
eous and thoughtful, the training of children in good manners 
will be comparatively easy. 

DINNER POINTERS. 

A cloth of medium size is best suited to the comfort of the 
guests. 

Provide plenty of rolls or bre^d. Place two finger rolls tied 
with narrow ribbon, or a thick, narrow, oblong piece of bread, be- 
side each plate. 

At a large dinner two varieties of soup, fish, meat and game 
may be served in the separate courses, and two varieties of vege- 
tables with all but the first course. 

Salads are good form with fish or meat, but a salad course is 
more formal. 

Crackers and olives, cheese, and salted almonds should never 
be omitted from the menu. 

Serve black coffee in tiny cups after the courses are removed, 
with cut sugar, and, though contrary to the Oriental custom, offer 
cream, as many Americans desire it. 

A few drops of lavender, a leaf of rose geranium or a sprig of 
lavender gives sweetness to the water in the finger bowls. These 
should be placed before each guest between the heavier and lighter 
courses, and after the fruit is served. The bowl should rest upon 
a doily on a dainty plate. 

The hostess may serve the soup and the salad, and the host may 
carve the joints or dishes, if the number of guests is not large, or 
all the courses and dishes may be served from outside. 



ALL AROUND THE HOUSE. 571 

DOMESTICS. 

One of the perplexing problems with which American society 
has to deal is the management of domestic help. This problem, 
embarrassing enough at the start, has grown more complex with the 
increase of the population and the wealth of the country. It has 
come to be a stated thing that employers are seeking new supplies 
of help every few weeks, and the help just relieved are seeking 
new places. Both have, or think the} T have, good and sufficient 
grounds for dissatisfaction. If we hear the employer's side of 
the story only, we are in danger of thinking the majority of girls 
insolent and incompetent ; but the girl will tell a different story. 
The mistress is petulant, exacting, and refuses to be pleased, though 
never so well served. The conclusion the girl comes to is that the 
lad}' knows nothing about housekeeping, cannot tell whether the 
work is properly done or not, and " just likes to find fault." 

Both are right in some respects and wrong in others. The trouble 
began when one, maid or mistress, became irritated by some- 
thing not harmonious in the tone or manner of the other, and 
instantly there was war between them, though the spoken words 
were few. There being no bond of sympathy between them they 
are sure to misunderstand and misjudge each other. It will be a 
great thing when the true source of the trouble is discovered and 
a way found for its correction. 

Let us take a modern mansion of the ideal type. There is a 
large family of various ages and of different tastes and require- 
ments, all helping to make more complex the household arrange- 
ments and family government. The wife and mother is fully 
equipped for her duties. In her young womanhood she received 
thorough training in housekeeping, and now in middle life prac- 
tical housekeeping is not an experiment with her, but a business 
which it is an honor to her to make successful. Every detail is 
so under her control that she is able to make the domestic machin- 
ery move like clockwork. When new help is engaged, there is 
no chance for any erratic side play. The girl finds that there is 
a manager at the head of affairs, and that she has been hired to 
carry forward her employer's long-established plans and usages, 



SOU- .-. COOK* I 

and most fall in with the rales laid down for her or she cannot 
retain her place. The mistress, knowing how tiresome are the 
many little chores that most be done about the house in a 
will be merciful and sympathize with her help in a way to make 
her feel she has a friend in her. The probabil girl will 

repay her kindly inte: over by striving to improve herself 

in every particular in which she has been found deficient 

If mothers and guardians, who have girls under their care, would 
see to it that they are thoroughly trained in the methods of good 
housekeeping in all its departments, the next generation would 
hear less about the --great American puzz. man of 

ness would think of naming a manufacturing establishment with 
everything going nap-hazard, some employees knowing something 
about the work, others knowing little or nothing, and the manager 

What shall be done towards solving the vexed problem f •: 

man may answer this for herself, by beginning to remedy 
the evils as far as possible in her own family. In engaging a new 
': ~r~: :1t:t s_ : - :_t u: ._ -: :': -..n-:n--- .-.-: -.:^ :. : :_ .;. _■ : 

iferred. and running no risk of wrong conclusions being drawn 
from her words. The girl should be fully informed as to wha~. 

rpeeted to do and what privileges will be granted her. When 
the specified time comes in which she is to be paid, be sure to have 
the money ready for her. Nothing discourages a girl more than 
::_.-_-:: - ~-_\- ■'.-::■ ' :: : _. :.:;.-- : :.:_- -_-:- -*.'.'. '. --.- 
::..-._ in _-: -_: . 7--? - :.::r--- 

e alL the utmost kindness should be shown at all times, 
and the mistress of the house should ever remember thai He 
that ruleth bis spirit is better than he that taketh a city. Praise 
should never be withheld when the girl does welL and when she 
fails to do well reproof may be so tempered with gentleness and 
love that the wrong will not be repeated. rind fault at 

the time an error is committed, if in the least irritated or annoyed, 
is an invaluable rule. A quiet talk after all feeling has subsided 
will do wonders towards reform, while a sharp and bitter rebuke 
would only provoke further disobedience. If a piece of work is 



XTT ABOr>"D THE HO" 

done improperly, take some suitable time to hare it done correctly. 
again and again if necessary. 

Give domestics all the privileges possible, and when obliged to 
deprive them of an accustomed indulgence, make it up soon in 
some other way. Try to imagine yourself shut up to one contin- 
ual round of monotonous task*, for the most par£ in a hot kitchen, 
with no pleasure to look forward'to but an occasional half-day off. 
Would not the loss of even one half-day's outing make life seem 
more dreary than ever to you? 

It is especially important and right to respect religious and con- 
matter how misguided they may seem, 
cherish m beliefs one pleases is an unalienable right, not 

lft- s for the servant girl than for the mistress of Ae mansion. 

j-e for the comfort and attractiveness of the servant's room 
is also a duty which every generous mistress will cheerfully under- 
take. The girl who is tucked away in a gloomy attic, unfinis- 
unearpeted. and uncurtained, with the hardest bed and the mean- 
-edclothing in the house, will have little respect for her mis- 
s, and will throw out hints to other girls which will have their 
^vhen the lady wishes to hire a new dbm 

The way to keep really good g. ^in them into sympathy 

and attachment to the family, so that they will regard tL 
a part of it and identified with its fortunes. To do this, the 

: her ma: : man like herself, and 

not class her re drudge of an inferior order of creation. 

must recognize the fact that character, and not station or 
wealth, makes the lady, and that it is possible for those who a 
to respect themse - SI -_ould let her servant see that she 
does not consider her work degrading but honorable, and try to 
make her regard it in the same light. By the cultivation of such 
ameniritr- - c house may really be made a home for the 

dorr - r the family, and the lady who has accom- 

- ^ed this may congratulate herself on having escaped the most 
perplexing ills of the life of the American housewife who depends 
on hired help. In ha • bring about such a result she may 

confidently count on meeting ma: - - :f incompetence. 



574 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

pidity, and even ingratitude, but the work is in the right direction, 
and if it fails of complete success, it cannot be wholly without 
good results. 

The lady who has these ends in view will see that her children 
also deport themselves in a respectful manner toward the ' 'stranger 
within the gates. " To permit her children to insult and annoy 
the attendants is to destroy her own influence over them, and work 
such injury in the hearts of the children themselves as will bear 
bitter fruit for them in after life. 

HINTS TO DOMESTICS. 

It may not be out of place to say a few words kindly to the 
young girl who finds it expedient to go from home to do family 
service. It is very natural for you to feel timid and lonely after 
leaving the paternal roof and making your home among strangers. 
The feeling of timidity, however, will soon pass away, and the 
loneliness also, if you have found a home with well-disposed peo- 
ple (and the majority of people who hire help are disposed to be 
kind ). If they find you neat in your person, polite and respect- 
ful in your manners, there is no danger but they will respect you 
and feel an interest in you. 

When you enter a family you come into close companionship 
with its members, and it will conduce to your own happiness as 
well as theirs if you resolve at once to make their interests yours. 
Remember it is possible for you to be as ladylike in your position 
as your mistress is in hers. If there is a plan by which she likes 
to have her work done, she will consider you of a very winning 
disposition if you consult her about it and try to carry out its de- 
tails to the best of your ability. If you know a better way do 
not speak of it at first, but after you have won her confidence you 
can pleasantly sa}- you have seen this piece of work done thus and 
so. Possibly she may fall in with your thought, and then you 
have strengthened the bond of sympathy between you. You have 
seen ill-cared-for machinery, perhaps, where the bearings scraped, 
squeaked and thumped along as if coming to pieces ; but when the 
workman poured oil into every place where oil could do any good, 



ALL AROUND THE HOUSE. 575 

how smoothly everj'thing began to move, and with what pleasure 
you watched every part noiselessly performing its task ! Many 
households would run with the most nerve-destroying friction were 
it not that someone applied the oil of some mollifying grace, such 
as cheerfulness or helpfulness. If you could be a messenger of 
peace in some distracted family, the honor to 3-011 in the sight of 
God would be greater than if you had won a battle. This is not 
impossible for you, if occasion offers, providing you have tact and 
an earnest desire to be helpful in the famity of which 3-011 are a part. 

If 3'ou have not been trained in habits of economy, it would be 
well to study the best ways of saving food and anything that comes 
within your province for disposal. Your employers will feel they 
have a treasure in you, if the3 r know 3011 never waste anything. 
When you find a place among good people, try to remain as long 
as the3" like to have 3-011. It is a strong recommendation for a 
girl to have remained 3-ears with one famity. 

When you receive your wages put as much in the savings bank 
as you can spare. Have comfortable, decent clothing, but noth- 
ing glaring or gewgawish. If there is some pretty thing you at 
first thought you would like, take a second thought and see if you 
really need it. If not, it is wiser not to bii3 r it, as 3011 do not 
wish to be burdened with the possession of articles that do 3-ou no 
good. 

If you go to church in the evening, or visit a friend, make it a 
point to be at home l)3 r ten o'clock at the latest. A girl can have 
no better praise than that she never cares to be out late at night. 
Above all, guard your good name with the strictest care. Do not 
stay a day in a place where 3*011 can see the least shadow of danger, 
and have no acquaintance with an3'one whose behavior and repu- 
tation are not of the best . 

When you find your life to be in accordance with these rules 
you will feel that you have attained a dignity in your position 
which will be a source of great satisfaction to you. 



576 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

FUEL. 

In all cold climates the question "How shall sufficient warmth 
be provided in winter with the least outlay of funds?" commands 
the attention of every prudent householder. All seek the best 
and most economical way, and plans are man} 7 and comprehensive. 
In modern houses steam and hot water are taking the place of hot- 
air furnaces, and are better in most respects. The heat is more 
evenly distributed and the expense is less. In such houses the 
family cooking may be done on a gas range, or gasoline stove, with 
little trouble. 

It is difficult to touch every phase of the question so as to suit 
all localities, as the supply of easily obtainable fuel differs. Near 
sawmills the edgings and trimmings of logs can be had at a 
reasonable rate. The best way is to buy green mill-wood in sum- 
mer and pile it in the yard loosely, as children build cob-houses. 
It will dry in a few weeks, and should then be transferred to the 
woodshed. Do not buy dry mill-wood in winter as it may be one 
or more years old, and most of its heating properties oxidized out 
of it, and it costs twice as much as green wood in summer. 

If a fire is wanted through the night, and coal cannot be afforded, 
a cord or two of hard wood should be provided in the fall and pre- 
pared for use, by sawing and splitting to the exact size suited to 
the stove in which it is to be burned. Coal is usually cheaper in 
cities than hard wood, and more satisfactory. 

The quantity of combustible matter in fuel, if weight and other 
conditions are equal, is indicated by the amount of ashes or non- 
combustible matter remaining. The heating power of fuel is de- 
pendent partly on this. Fuel is valuable for various purposes in 
proportion to the flame it produces. A blaze is of great service 
when heat is to be applied to a large surface ; but where an even 
or lasting heat is required, a more solid fuel is to be preferred. 

A few words on the comparative value of different kinds of 
wood and how to buy it, may be helpful. A cord of wood is one 
hundred and twenty-eight cubic feet ; the sticks are cut four feet 
long and placed in a pile four feet high and eight feet long. Wood 
cut to stove length, eighteen or twenty inches, is sometimes sold 



ALL AROUND THE HOUSE. 



577 



as a cord, when 011I3- eight feet long, four feet high and as wide as 
the sticks are long, but it is not, of course, really a cord. The 
fair way to sell fuel would be bj T weight, and when weights are 
equal the wood containing the most hydrogen will produce the 
most heat. Thus, one hundred pounds of dry pine are worth 
more as fuel than the same number of pounds of dry oak. Green 
wood can never be economically used, as it contains about twent}'- 
five per cent, water, which must be evaporated, and the heat re- 
quired to evaporate this sap is wasted. We give below a table, in 
which shell-bark hickory is made the standard of comparison, 
rated at 100 in value and 1,000 in weight, and the weights of 
other varieties show their comparative value, which may be readily 
estimated in dollars and cents. For instance, if hickory is worth 
$6. 00 per cord, the proper value of white oak would be $4.86, for 
as 100 (hickory) is to $6.00, so is .81 to the value of white oak, 
$-1.86. Wood cut from the body of a mature tree is best. 



WOODS. 



Shell-bark Hickory. 

White Walnut 

White Oak 

White Ash 

Scrub Oak 

Red Oak 

Black Walnut 

White Beech 

Yellow Oak 

Sugar Maple 

White Elm 

Yellow-pine 

Sycamore 

Chestnut 

Poplar 

Pitch-pine 

White-pine 

Lombardy Poplar. . 



Comparative 


Weight per 


Comp. 


Weight. 


Cord. 


Value 


1000 


4469 


100 


949 


4241 


9:. 


855 


3821 


81 


722 


3450 


77 


747 


3339 


73 


728 


3255 


69 


681 


3044 


65 


724 


3236 


65 


653 


2916 


60 


644 


2878 


60 


580 


3592 


58 


551 


2463 


54 


535 


2391 


52 


522 


2233 


52 


563 


2516 


52 


426 


1904 


43 


418 


1868 


42 


397 


1774 


40 



The various qualities of bituminous, or soft coal, and anthra- 
cite coal, as sold in different markets, make it impossible to give 
an}' accurate comparison of values. Measured by pounds, if an- 
thracite is made the standard at 250, seasoned oak ranks 125, or 
one-half in value; hickoiy, 137; white pine, 137; yellow pine, 145; 



578 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

coke, 285 ; while the bituminous coals vary from 188 to 248. The 
objection to soft coal is the dust that arises from it, and the un- 
pleasant smell of the gases in combustion. Soft coal from differ- 
ent mines vaiies in qualit}-, and it will be eas} T to learn the best 
varieties in the local market. Soft coal ignites more readily than 
hard, and requires less kindling wood, but it burns out much 
quicker and gives the housewife far more trouble and vexation, as 
the smoke not only blackens cooking utensils, but settles on hands, 
face, and clothing, so as to require double the amount of washing 
needed when other fuel is used. 

Hard coal is not good if it has flat, dull-looking pieces in it ; 
they will remain hard, heav} r and whitish when burned. If, in a 
scuttle of coal weighing twenty-five pounds, a half pound of these 
pieces is found, the coal is inferior. Coal is pronounced good if 
it breaks at right angles firmly and with a bright fracture. If it 
shatters or is full of dull pieces, it is poor. Few understand the 
difference in hard coal because they have not investigated the mat 
ter. Experience, with careful observation, will soon enable an in- 
telligent person to see the difference between good and bad coal 
and learn the best and most economical wa}-s of using it. Some- 
one has said, ' ' You may burn coal five years and still have some- 
what to learn about it, "which is true unless you apply yourself 
diligently to master the subject sooner. 

Stove coal is not suitable for use in a common cooking stove ; 1 , 
requires a strong draft and burns at a very high heat. Nut-coai 
is best for this purpose, and it beds down into a mass of red-hot 
coals ; for hours keeping up an even heat fully sufficient for all 
culinary purposes. For a common base-burner, mix the best stove 
and nut coal in equal parts. With a good self-feeding heater and 
proper management this makes a fire that will heat two or three 
rooms of ordinary size if the house is well built. It is no econ- 
omy to buy a poor quality of coal even if it is seventy-five cents 
on a dollar per ton cheaper than the best, but it is not easy to get 
good coal even after it is ordered and paid for. In these proverb- 
ially degenerate days one must know what good coal is on sight ; 
then when coal is expected to arrive, be on hand to examine it be- 



ALL AROUND THE HOUSE. 579 

fore a single shovelful is put into the bin ; and stay to see if the 
last of the load is as good as what was on top. When it is known 
at the coal yard and in the office that a trained eye is to scan every 
ton, and every part of a ton, your purchase will turn out satisfac- 
torily, and not otherwise in nine cases out of ten. 

The Scientific American says a good bright fire can be steadily 
maintained with coal, with less trouble than with any other kind 
of fuel, but not by raking, poking, and piling in green fuel con- 
tinually. After breakfast the fire should be cleared of ashes, if 
there are any, and fresh fuel put on to fill the grates moderately. 
Let the oven damper be turned up so as to heat it, and leave the 
small top door open, more or less, according to the intensity of 
heat required. In this wa}' air enters over the top of the fire, and 
maintains a far better combustion, and consequently greater heat 
than when the draft-dampers are thrown down. A washing can 
be done, or ironing accomplished, with one-third less coal than is 
general^ thought necessary to use. 

There is great waste in throwing away half-burned coal under 
the supposition that it is cinders. One who has experimented 
with coal for twenty years, both in the house and under the boiler, 
writes : "In cleaning the grate in the morning you will find there 
is a quantity of unburned coal, which has been externally sub- 
jected to combustion. It is covered with ashes, and looks, to the 
inexperienced eye, like cinders. It is often relentlessly dumped 
into the ash-box. The fact, in mairy cases, is that the lump is 
only roasted on the outside, not even coked, and is in a better con- 
dition for igniting than the fresh coal. We have stated that coal 
is a condensed form of carbon. The superficially burned lumps, 
found in our grates or among our ashes, sufficiently prove this. 
Take a lump of anthracite coal from the fire, red-hot and all alive, 
throw it into water until the ashes are washed from it, and it is 
black externally and cool. Take it out, and break it open, and 
it will be red-hot and glowing inside. This shows that time and a 
plentiful supply of air are necessary to burn coal, and that large 
amounts of what we call ashes and cinders are really excellent 
fuel. To prove this fact, let anyone carefully sift the ashes, throw- 



580 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

ing out the inevitable slate, which can be readily detected, and 
start the coal fire on wood or charcoal, kindling it with the savings. 
A good bed of incandescent coal will be formed sooner than with 
green coal on the kindlings. Never, whether rich or poor, suffer 
cinders or unburne'd bits of coal to be wasted in the ash-barrel. 
Measure for measure they are worth more than coal. Save them, 
soak them, and ti»y them. Water renovates the coke, and wet cin- 
ders upon a hot coal-fire will make it hotter, and keep it so longer 
than fresh coal. Saving cinders is not meanness, it is economy/' 
If the coal fire is low, throw on a tablespoon of salt and it will 
help it greatly. 

Bog peat might be made available as a fuel in places where 
neither wood nor coal can be readily obtained. The marshes, 
which everywhere abound in the western states, are rich in beds of 
peat that might be prepared for use with but little trouble or ex- 
pense to the consumer. While peat emits a rather disagreeable 
odor when burning, it makes a good, lasting fire, which is more 
than can be said of the twisted fagots of hay that so long served 
as fuel in treeless portions of the west. To procure peat for fuel 
the marsh should first be drained ; when dry enough to work, the 
top must be pared off with a sharp spade, to the depth of six 
inches or more, to remove the coarse, undecomposed vegetable 
matter. Cut the peat into pieces about the size of bricks with a 
long, narrow, sharp spade. Carry them to a convenient place and 
set on end to dry. Where rains are frequent, a shed must be pro- 
vided or the drying process will be greatly retarded ; and peat, if 
in the least damp, will not burn readily. If all conditions are 
favorable, peat cut in the spring will be dried and ready for use 
before winter. 

Several fanners might club together after seeding is over and 
prepare the peat necessary for a j'ear's fuel for all. Peat will 
burn very well in a common cooking stove if a good draft can be 
had, but it must be fully dry. The fire can be kept smouldering 
through the night by covering it with a layer of ashes. 

Clinkers. — They may be removed from grates or the back of 
the range b} T throwing half a dozen broken oyster shells into the 



ALL AROUND THE HOUSE. 581 

fire when the coal is aglow, and covering them with fresh coal. 
When red hot the clinkers become doughy, and are easily removed. 

To kindle a coal FIRE. — Hard coal will not ignite until it is 
thoroughly heated through, and as small coal will not require as 
much wood to heat it as large, it is important, where the supply of 
kindling wood is limited, that the pieces of coal which touch the 
wood should be small. The coal for kindling should be as small 
as a pigeon's egg; it is called " chestnut coal " by the dealers, and 
the wood may be broken up into splinters not more than three or 
four inches long and the size of the little finger ; they can be laid 
more compactly so, and the heat be more concentrated on a given 
point of coal, the sooner heating it through. 

Put a handful of shavings or paper in a grate compactly, with 
splinters of dry wood and a layer of pieces of wood somewhat 
larger than the splinters ; apply a match to the kindling, and while 
it is catching put on some of the small coal ; it will ignite and 
redden with great rapidity and certainty ; now add another layer 
or two of chestnut coal, and in a few minutes, when this seems 
well ignited, some of the larger coal. With care there need not 
be a failure during the winter in having a good fire in a short time. 
To lessen a coal fire, press it from the top so as to make the mass 
more compact, giving less room for air. To revive it lay on small 
pieces carefully ; put on the blower, and when red add larger 
pieces and riddle out from below. Heaping on more coal or let- 
ting out ashes from below will certainly put out a low coal fire. 
These directions will apply as well in making a fire in a base- 
burner as in a fireplace or grate. 

A conn fire kindler. — Melt together three pounds resin and a 
quart" of tar, stir in as much sawdust and pulverized charcoal as 
possible, and spread the mass on a board to cool. When cold, 
break into lumps the size of a walnut. Light one with a match 
and it burns for some time with a strong blaze. 

THE ICE-HOUSE. 

Ice, the great luxur}' of summer, lias become a necessity, and 
though the cities seem to have an advantage because of the quan- 
tity stored for general use, yet it is so easily put up and protected, 



--z.i'.-- ■: :i- :_-:t > i: :-.---_;:.-;- l:~i :~ - : 

rests a house ma y aot hare a good supply. A good, cheap ice- 

-. - - ' ^ " - : : ; ir - :_ r~ : ir— : :'.! \r~ .1 " r_-r ■". 2 : ':•= 

o u a fcti acted wholly or in part under ground. Where it is impera- 

: " - '■ 

-.- .-_-'- f ._ --- --- : - •• : -_: :>t I_- 7 • - -"•»: ■- - _ _: 

bat it win not be necessary to ase matched lumber for the walls. 

at of coat-tar should be laid oef" inside, as the moisture win 

:•: :sr '-■:-.- T_r _:.-- ?_ .". : -~:~ ' -- -->.". — : --_r 

darker it is. aad the less eireulaooa of air. the better the ice will 

•It- _ 

The best time to eat iee is oa a sharp, cold day in early winter, 

- : - . £ - r_ :. '■-" -: :_r- __ :_- . :: _ : - .-_:_-: :_ z :: 

- 

Place sawdast a foot thick under the first layer of ice, leaving a 

space a foot wide btt»«xa the ice aad the wall, in which pack 

last, filling every c re vice . When the ice is all in. corer with 

iast a foot deep at least. Sometimes chaff, oc fine cat straw. 

- - . - " i ; :_- - ~ 

±z '. ■:■' - : -."-- " _ T . -...1-" .- i.z::-: ' '-" " _ : : 
the purpose of tutting ice. Aa old cross-cat saw is sometimes 
used, aad answers Terr wdL 

THE KITCHEN 

_jt whole hoaaeaold is d^ t eadent upon the kitchen for much 
of its comfort, this part of the house ahoald be convenient, well 

One who has been into the cook's department of a well-ordered 
ship, wfll hare some idea how it is possible to have a sang, orderly. 
weQ-stoeked kitchen, in a very smaU space. A ship's cook. 

-__- .- -_-_-.-/ -.: - --I.- :•:>-.- -~ z .'. -: -:-•: .:. 11:"-; :i -_-.-:-. 

drawers, hooks, aad boxes ; and papers of sugar . rice, and other 
groceries are never seen, as boxes, backets, tin canisters, aad 
drawers, each with dose covers, plainly marked, hold these, as 

T -._ :- -:-; : 'z- i-V.L-rC -Z : : _ z± :-:■:• '.- ;:e-s:> 



ALL ABOHSD IH1 BC CK 

. . 7 ' ::_.-. - .:_ "._■? ' : _l: r~~ £. ' _-i - - :: — . " ' : .ir*^ 
gly«U1 be of hard wood, and the covers tight fitting; tin eauis- 

-.-;-. \zz :S-- --L -:-:.' • z~- -z -:-;:-- J. 1 ;- i"- " — ~i 

covers that will fasten down ; drawers intended for spices, s w eet 
herbs, meals . flours, and cereals shookl hare covers tint will fit 
closely en the inside, having a ring in the center to use in lifting, 
thai may be bid lit -tLci. r.e irs-«-rr ■ dosed TzL? is 
n c< g flMi y bff«w "f the conthmed heat in thekitehen which 

■■ z :_t ":.-t: :-: _- .zz :: :■:• ^_*:.^ s: t_it tl-r :• zzzz- -r-. rx- 
posed to dust, insects, steam and odors, - There should he, in cosmec- 

it can be shot closely from either room. The cellar stairs, too, 
shookl go down from here, giving the benefit of a cellar closet, 
out of the pantry, for food that needs the additional coo ln es s . A 

z-irz-zr. : ; :. r-zrz-Z :■: : ... — : -_ _ --. /- :.: r_ z_-. 

pant: D save a great many steps. 

If one cannot have a pantry, the kitchen most be supplied with 
\ ~ ;-\. '.-. h:z~z. -. -_ : - t_r irx :: :_- rui: :: ■ - -_- ;. . .-- 
where floor and gr o ceries are kept. and. in any ease, there most 
be plenty of windows, well screened, that will open both at top 
zz '. "'•::::- 7_r -z.-.z-z -_::7: " - T.r : _x. " _:~t :. .7-r 
_:.;--•■; i-r 7_r r.i: -_ . _ 7 >r:_r7 :_:::_;_. 7 _- : is 
the more easily cleaned, and repels odors better; and the floor 
should be oiled at least twice a year. 

There is no economy in the purchase of a small refrigerator, or 
range. The refrigerator should be as large as there is space for 
it and not be crowded, that it may hold a two-months soppi 
batter and eggs, if necessary : and the range should 
only a very large family will require a S The range shookl 

be supplied with at least three kettles, two of which should be 
porcelain-lined, a tea-kettle, a spider and frying-pan. coffee, tea 
and chocolate pots, two baking pans, a covered baker, cake, bis- 
.-.: ; -. . :.•_ : '- :- . : . : ....- _ _ . _ ". - .-- :-_- jrrv _r:c : : ..?- -; 
~".r. :zz-: : ■ . jf ~ :rrl. !::: r:>i :.-:zz-z 1: '.-. ..-: :_:vt - r : - 
wash-boiler, and a plentiful supply of dose covers of all shoes, 

- - 



584 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

cooker for oatmeal, oysters, etc. Sevei*al sizes of these are con- 
venient to have. The range should have a hot-water tank at the 
back, a shelf, or warm oven over it, and swinging shelves to keep 
food hot. The water and wood, or coal, should have a place 
near the stove, and a piece of hose that may be screwed to the 
water faucet will be found labor saving in filling tank, kettles, or 
boiler. 

The sink should be near the stove, and be well supplied with 
water and drainage, if possible having a hot-water faucet, beneath 
it a cupboard for kettles, spider, bakers, etc. The kitchen sink 
needs a window, but far enough up not to take the splash of the 
water, and it needs the full light of day turned on it, at least 
three times a week. It should be stocked with a plentiful supplj' 
of soap, soda, sapolio, copperas, and brushes ; and should be 
made clean, and allowed to dry after every dishwashing. If of 
wood, it should be kept well painted. If of iron, it rnay be 
washed once a week in kerosene, which will make it throw off the 
water, and prevent rusting. The drain should be scalded after 
each dishwashing, and the strainer kept clean. On no account 
should crumbs or grease be allowed to go into it. Twice a week 
put down a handful of copperas. The sink should be scrubbed 
daily with clean, hot soapsuds, and a brush, and wiped dry with 
a cloth kept for the purpose. The habit of wiping up a dirty 
sink with a dishcloth, is not to be tolerated. 

At least three dishcloths should be kept for the dishwashing, 
and in no case put away wet, but each time wash and carefully 
dry. There is death concealed in a dirty, wet dishcloth, and this 
often is the cause of fevers or cholera in hot weather. Have a 
plentiful supply of wipers, and never use them when dirty. Do not 
use the same dishcloths for iron, nor for milk pails, that are used 
for table dishes. Milk will catch a taint from an impure cloth, or 
from haying vessels washed in impure water. Have plenty of 
hooks near the sink for hanging the spoons, skimmers and ladles 
used about the stove, and for dippers, sponges, brushes, etc., 
used about the sink. Hang up the dishpous and kitchen wash 
dish. Have a place where the broom can hang, as it is more out 
of the way, and lasts longer than if lying around. 



ALL AROUND THE HOUSE. 585 

Let the window sill be broad in the kitchen, and, if it be sunny, 
a geranium or two will thrive there ; arrange a flower bed or a 
flower box on the outside. Kitchens are too apt to lack a place 
for rest, and a cheerful bit of brightness. Have one chair, and a 
low rocking chair, where one can drop down and rest while watch- 
ing some nice process of cooking. 

After the range and sink, the most important part of the fur- 
nishing is the kitchen table. Have it carpenter-made about five 
feet long, and three wide, with a plain, unpainted top, and an 
ironing-board that can be doubled up and pushed back into it, 
made under the top. Beneath this should be two deep drawers, 
and, on the ends, several smaller ones. The deep drawers ma} r 
hold the sadirons, ironing sheets and holder, spermaceti, the 
pieces of linen useful- in ironing, and, if large enough, the starch. 
The smaller drawers should contain strings, paper bags, new corks 
of various sizes, little sharp knives and can-openers, with two or 
three clean bottles. 

At the top of the kitchen there should be a good-sized venti- 
lator. If the kitchen is built, as is often the case, in a one-story 
addition to the house, this is easily managed by a roof window, 
that a cord will open and close. If not, a large tube should go 
up along the chimney to cany out the heat and odors at the top. 
A heat stroke, in the kitchen, is fully as dangerous as a sunstroke 
in the street, and very nearly as frequent, were it only called by 
the right name. 

If there is no pantry, end cupboards must be arranged in the 
kitchen ; let the dining-room cupboard open into the kitchen as 
well, and thus save steps. The kitchen cupboard should extend 
from floor to ceiling, and avoid places for dust and clutter, at top 
or bottom. The under part may be separate, and hold the tin and 
porcelain ware ; and the upper part may be divided, one section 
holding cereals, tea, coffee, dried fruits, boxes of spice, flavorings, 
seasonings, etc., and the necessary kitchen dishes, with plainly 
marked boxes for knives, forks and spoons. The flour and sugar 
boxes should stand on one side of the cupboard, and the mould- 
ing board hang on it or lie on a shelf above. Leave room enough 



586 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

under the lower shelf of the cupboard for jugs of vinegar and 
syrup. 

The secret of a clean kitchen is to have a place for every article 
and keep it there when not in use. The daily care does not inter- 
fere with a special inspection of kitchen and pantry at least twice 
a week to see that every corner is sweet and clean, and nothing 
allowed to waste through lack of care. The odors that come from 
some kitchens are anything but agreeable. Strong odors of the 
person, which are increased by the heat of the stove, may be cor- 
rected by frequent bathing and the daily use of carbolic acid and 
ammonia in the water. 

The kitchen should be well supplied with dish, hand and roller 
towels. A soiled towel and a soiled apron are inexcusable in a 
cook, as is the practice of using the towel, the dishwiper or the 
apron for lifting dishes from the stove. Have plenty of holders, 
and keep them clean. Newspapers are valuable for cleaning the 
stove, wiping out greas}- dishes before putting them into water, 
covering shelves, using under the flat-iron stand, and man} r other 
purposes. Cultivate the habit of saving and using newspapers 
and they will save much washing and scrubbing. 

Burn bones and all kinds of rubbish and eggshells, onion and 
turnip peelings, but other peelings, vegetables, pieces of bread, 
fruits, etc. , usually thrown on the garbage pile, may be saved in 
a basket and given to some cow ; otherwise dry and burn. 

Throw the dishwater away from the house, if there is no sewer, 
and pour the washing water on the trees and grass. Never allow 
slops to stand, either in a pail or on the ground ; with a little 
care, everything of the kind may be avoided. 

Keep the range clean by washing or brushing every day, for a 
dirty stove makes the kitchen look untidy. Insist on system and 
cleanliness in the kitchen, but see that the latter is not obtained by 
extravagance in throwing away food that might be utilized for an- 
other meal or by lack of judgment in taking care of small quanti- 
ties of food. The old proverb, varied, applies here : Take care 
of the littles and the large amounts will last the longer. « 

Ammonia. — Useful in taking out old stains, softening hard 
water, washing grease from dishes or clothes, counteracting the 



ALL AROUND THE HOUSE. 587 

poison of bee stings, bites of insects, and allaying the pain of 
burns. 

Alum Water. — Apply it strong and hot to every place where 
there are insects or vermin and it will kill them. 

Ants. — Wash the shelves where they congregate with strong 
alum water, and scatter sprigs of sweet fern, pennyroyal, or pieces 
of alum there. 

Barrels. — They are better for apples than boxes, and may be 
used in moving to pack dishes, as they are easily handled. 

Borax. — It is excellent in washing clothes, dishes and hands. 
Keep a bottle of strong solution on the sink for general use. 

Boxes. — Those built into the pantry or kitchen, for flour, meal 
or sugar, should be emptied occasionally, scalded, and well dried 
before using. An inside cover, half an inch below the top, en- 
sures safety from ants and meal worms. 

Bread and Cake. — Keep in a close-covered tin box, or stone jar. 

Brooms. — Dip them, when first bought, into boiling water. 
Shake well and dry. Hang them up and keep the old ones for 
kitchen, porch, shed, and sidewalk. 

B URN s. — Wet a soft cloth in strong soapsuds, sprinkle thickly 
with soda and bind on the affected part. 

Cabbage. — If cooked in an open vessel no odor will arise, as 
that is caused by the generation of gas when closely covered. 

Cement. — Mix the well-beaten white of an egg with plaster of 
Paris, and use for lamps, loosened knife-handles, and china. Or, 
use a thick paste of quicklime. Gum arabic strengthens the 
paste. Use plaster of Paris mixed with water for mending broken 
places in plastering. 

Charcoal. — It is excellent for preserving moat and poultry. 
If meat is a little strong the taint may be removed by placing 
charcoal about it. Two or three pieces in the kettle where corned 
beef or cabbage is cooked will prevent much of the strong odor. 
Keep a piece in the refrigerator. A lump suspended in the sleep- 
ing or sick-room will absorb disagreeable odors. 

Clinkers. — To remove them, burn oyster shells on them, with 
fresh coal. 

Coffee and Tea. — Keep them in tin canisters with tight covers. 



HOUSEKEEPER COOKIBOOK. 

Coffee thrown on the stove, or coals, to smoke will often kill bad 
odors. Boil wood ashes in coffee or tea-pots to clean them. 

ks. — Throw them into hot water before using. Keep a va- 
riety of sizes on hand. They are as valuable in mouseholes as 
in jugs 

Ploi b Sacks. — Use them for dishwipers. piece bags, stocking 
I soiled-clothes bags Keep the table linen and fine pieces 
in one bag. and the coarser articles in another : but everything 
must be fully dry before putting away for the wash. 

Glass Jars and Ttmelers. — They will not crack when filled 
with hot water or fruit if they stand upon a wet cloth. 

Jar Covers. — Brush a paper with boiled linseed oil, and dry. 
It will be waterproof. 

Kfttles. — Clean brass ones with vinegar and salt, an" 
them thoroughly : iron kettles are cleaned by boiling hay and po- 
tatoes in them and then scouring and washing ; boil wood ashes 
in porcelain-lined ones. Keep an i 11 in teakettles to at- 

tract any lime in the water, and tin kettles may be kept bright by 
rubbing with a flannel dipped in kerosene. 

Knive-. — Bub with a cork dipped in powdered brick-dust. If 
rusty, cover with sweet oil. After forty-eight hours, rub with 
finely-powdered slacked lime until the rust disapp 

- and Oranges. — Keep lemons in cold water, changing 
it once a week. Boll oranges in soft paper and keep them in a 
drawer. 

— To remove the odor from tin or iron dishes, turn 
them over a hot fire. 

Polish. — For iron, steel or tin. apply flour of emery on a damp 
cloth, and rub with a newspaper till bright. For silver, dissolve 
whiting in equal parts of ammonia and alcohol. 

are — It will not rust if rubbed with lard and heated hot 
in the oven. 

Walnuts. — If too dry. let them stand in milk and water eight 
hours ; dry them, and they will be as fresh as new out - 

"Water. — If boiled in galvanized iron it becomes poisonous. 
and cold water passed through zinc-lined iron pipes should never 



ALL AROUND THE HOI 589 

be used for cooking or drinking. Hot water for eookmg should 
never be taken from hot-water pipes ; take from cold-water pi: 
and keep a supply, heated for use in kettles. 

THE LAUNDRY. 

The family washing should be done the first of the week, if pos- 
sible. Have a receptacle for dirty clothes other than the clothes 
basket. A covered willow hamper, or a coffee sack, hung in a 
convenient place, will answer. All clothing worn on the pei 
should be aired before putting in the hamper : never put in wet 
articles as they may mildew. 

Clothes to be starched should be mended before washing ; but 
if this cannot be done, dry and mend them before starching and 
ironing. Soft water is best, bat if obliged to use hard, cleanse it 
with washing-soda, and heat the water to get a quick action of the 
soda. Experience will teaeh how much soda is required, as well- 
water varies in degrees of hardness : sometimes only a teaspoon- 
ful is needed for a pail of water. A barrel may be filled with 
hard water and cleansed with lye made from half a peck or more 
of hard-wood ashes. Ashes from soft wood or coal will not an- 
swer. Use only sufficient lye. or soda, to clear the water, or it 
will affect the hands unpleasantly. Unless enough lye is used the 
water will look milky and the clothes will be yellow. 

Sort the clothes, separating the finer and less soiled from the 
others. Remove coffee and fruit stains before they have been wet. 
by stretching the stained parts over a bowl and pouring boiling 
well-water through them until they disappear. Have the water in 
the tub but little more than lukewarm, as very hot water makes 
the clothes harder to wash, unless they have soaked some time in 
cold water. Wash the finest and least soiled through two wal 
and put them into a boiler of cold water with soap enough to make 
suds : do not use too much soap or the clothes will be yellow. A 
handful of borax to ten gallons of water helps to whiten the 
clothes, and is used by many, especially the Hollanders, who are 
famous for their snowy linen. It saves in soap nearly half, but 
need not be used if the water is cleansed with either lye or soda. 
Borax alone will soften the hardest water. An extra cpaantity of 



590 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

the powder is needed for laces and cambrics ; and for stiff articles 
a strong solution is necessary. Borax being a neutral salt does 
not in the least injure the texture of the finest linen. Some throw 
a handful of tansy in the boiler ; it makes the water greenish but 
whitens the clothes. . 

Many prefer not to boil clothes at all, but scalding five or ten 
minutes is beneficial. Remove them to a tub, pour over cold soft 
water and wash well, turning every garment wrong side out. 
Rinse in two waters, using bluing in the last. It is not a good 
plan to use well water, as it is difficult to blue evenly in hard 
water. If soft water is scarce, one had better put the bluing in 
the rinse water and dispense with the second rinsing. Also, one 
washing before scalding will do very well where strength, time 'and 
soft water are not abundant. Use a good wringer, for much of 
the clearness of the clothes depends on the suds-water being 
wrung out of them. If there are several boilers full of clothes, 
a skilful washer will manage to have the first hung out while the 
rest are under way. 

Put the things to be starched by themselves ; make the starch 
according to the recipes given, and use as hot as the hand can 
bear. Dip in the articles and parts of articles requiring to be 
veiy stiff, and rub the starch well in with the hands, or clap them. 
Thin the starch for articles which require less stiffening. Shake 
each article free from wrinkles, and fasten securely and evenly on 
the line. Have the line in the cleanest, airiest place in the yard, 
if in the country or village, but if in a large city, unless far re- 
moved from smoke and cinders, an attic is a better place to hang 
clothes, in summer as well as winter. Freezing injures starch, 
and it is therefore better in winter to dry the clothes before starch- 
ing, then starch and dry them in the house. 

Keep clothespins in a basket or bag. A great convenience is 
a stout apron with large pockets into which the pins can be quickly 
thrust when taking down the clothes, and it is a still greater con- 
venience when hanging them up. As soon as the clothes are taken 
in, take down the line, roll it up and put it away in a place secure 
from dust. It is important that the line and pins should be kept 



ALL AROUND THE HOUSE. 591 

clean, or they will soil the clothes when next used. The practice 
of leaving clothes out for hours after they are dry, and the line 
for days, is a very careless one. White flannel mittens will pro- 
tect the hands when hanging out clothes in winter ; they may be 
kept in the bag with the pins. 

In folding the clothes for ironing, turn all garments right side 
out, sprinkle and roll up as smoothly as may be, and place in the 
basket ; fold sheets evenly without sprinkling and la} r on top, and 
over all spread the ironing blanket. Begin the ironing with the 
sheets and take the rest as they come, reserving the shirts, collars, 
and things requiring to be very stiff, to be dipped in cold starch. 
Take one teaspoonful of elastic starch to each shirt ; pour on luke- 
warm water, stir well and add a little bluing. Dip the bosoms 
and collars in this, roll them up tightly and leave twenty or thirtj- 
minutes. Three shirts are about all that can be ironed before 
they become too dry to iron nicely, so it is better to leave some to 
be dipped when the first lot are nearly finished. A good ironing- 
board is a necessit}- in every family, as the practice of ironing on 
a table is bad. The table warps with the heat of the irons, and 
becomes too uneven for good work. 

A bosom-board should also be provided. Take a piece of hard- 
wood board, an inch thick, eighteen inches long and eight inches 
wide, cover with two thicknesses of white woolen blanket stuff, 
and overlay with two more of cotton cloth. Wrap the cloth over 
the sides and ends and tack on the under side, leaving the upper 
surface smooth and even. Cover the ironing board in the same 
way. This should be an inch thick, five feet long, and two feet 
wide at one end and at the middle, tapering to seven inches at the 
other end. The corners should be rounded off. The board may 
be of any well-seasoned wood that will not warp. Cotton holders 
are better than woolen ones as they are cooler to the hand. 

In ironing a shirt, carefully observe the following rules: Beo-in 
with the back of the shirt and the shoulders, then- iron the sleeves 
the neckband, wristbands, and lastly the bosom. Rub the surface 
with a bit of clean linen, slightly moistened, to remove any sur- 
plus starch that may adhere to it. Try the iron so as to be sure 



592 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

not to scorch the linen ; lay over the bosom a piece of thin mus- 
lin and pass the iron over it, remove and proceed to iron the 
bosom with care. The irons should be perfectly smooth and free 
from any bits of starch which often adhere to them in ironing 
starched clothes. In polishing, an iron made especially for it is 
used, and a hard-wood board without cloth over it is placed under 
the bosom-. Much strength is required to polish well, and it is a 
question whether a woman who does the work for her family can 
afford to spend her valuable time and strength producing an effect 
which passes away with the first souse in the washtub. If it must 
be done, let the machinery of the laundries, which run by steam, 
take the brunt of it. No man can afford to be fine at the expense 
of the health of his wife ; and it is to be sincerely hoped that the 
time is past when women will offer their necks to this wheel of 
Juggernaut because the}^ "like to have things just so." 

Muslin or lace should be pulled out carefully, ironed once, then 
pulled into shape and gone over again. Embroideries should be 
ironed on the wrong side over flannel. Have at hand a dish of 
clean, cold water, so that any place imperfectly ironed may be 
dampened and ironed again. Hang each article on the clothes 
dryer as soon as finished, and leave twentj r -four hours to air thor- 
oughly. Starched clothes retain the starch better if dried quick]}'. 
In regard to washing, it may be said further, that if a machine is 
used it is well to soak the clothes over night in warm, soft water, 
soaping the parts most soiled. Have separate tubs for coarse and 
fine clothes. The practice of soaking clothes from Saturday even- 
ing till Monday morning has some objectionable features. The 
soapy water is apt to become foul smelling, and the feeling of 
wash-day stretches over the best part of three daj'S. In summer, 
clothes may be washed without fire by soaking over night in soapy 
water, rubbing out in the morning, soaping again and laying on 
the grass in the hot sunshine. By the time the last are spread 
out to bleach the first may be taken up, washed out and rinsed. 
This, of course, requires a clean lawn. 

Calicoes and colored stockings may be washed in the same way, 
except that no soap should be used in the rinsing. Wash gray 



ALL AROUND THE HOUSE. 593 

and brown linens in cold water with a little black pepper in it and 
they will not fade. For bluing, use the best indigo tied in a 
strong bag made of drilling. 

Before washing flannels, shake out the dust and lint ; use soft, 
clean, cold water, in winter merely taking off the chill. Let the 
hard soap lie in the water, but do not apply it to the clothes. 
Wash white pieces first, throw articles as fast as washed into blued, 
cold water, let stand twenty or thirty minutes, wash after dissolv- 
ing a little soap in the water, wring dry, shake and hang up. If 
obliged to use the same water for colored flannels, strain it, or the 
lint will adhere to the pieces and make them look worse than at 
first. Rinse in several waters if the color is inclined to run. 
When very dirty the flannels should soak longer, and a little well- 
dissolved borax be added to the water. This process is good for 
washing silk goods and embroideries. 

Let those who object to cold water for washing flannels make a 
strong suds of the best laundry soap and soft water, only hot 
enough to be comfortable to the hand, with a little borax dissolved 
in it. Put in the white or light flannels first, wash as quickly as 
possible, without rubbing, but shaking, squeezing, and "sozzling" 
in the water until clean. Screw the wringer tightly, and as the 
pieces pass through it, drop them into a little hotter water than 
was first used, which though soft is made better by a little soap 
and borax. Rinse and hang out quickly to dry. In cold or damp 
weather dry them by the fire. Flannels should never be allowed 
to freeze, and their softness and non-shrinking depends much on 
the rapidity of drying. It is better to take new water for the 
darker flannels. Wash flannels before white or colored clothes. 
The}- will not only lie out of the way and more likety to dry 
quickly, but the temptation to hurry in washing them, or to put 
into the suds water, will be avoided. • 

Culicoes may be washed in the suds from the white clothes, but 
do not rub soap on them. It injures both flannels and calicoes. 
Ordinarily calicoes are rinsed and starched as white clothes. 

Do not boil dish towels with the fine white dresses, shirts, table- 
cloths, sheets, pillowcases, napkins, or fine towels, but be as par- 



594 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

ticular to have the suds nice and clean. It is better to remove 
part and add clean cold water, so that the towels may not become 
yellow by boiling in too strong a suds. Wash thoroughly all that 
have been used the previous week. 

Wooden stocking forms are a great help in drying children's 
stockings. They may be bought at a furnishing store or made to 
order. 

To Wash with Kerosene. — Soak white clothes over night, or 
an hour or two in the morning, in hard water. Fill a No. 9 boiler 
two-thirds full of soft water. Slice one and one-half bars of soap . 
into a basin of warm water ; let it dissolve and come to a boil. 
Wring the soaked clothes dry. If the water is boiling in the 
boiler, and the soap ready, pour a little more than half of the 
liquid into the boiler, and immediately add three tablespoonfuls of 
kerosene ; one tablespoonful of kerosene to one-quarter of a pound 
of soap is a fair proportion. Shake out the clothes, and put them 
into the boiler, leaving the coarse articles for the next boiling. 
Let the clothes boil ten minutes, -stirring them almost all the time. 
If the water looks milky, greasj 7 , or a little scum rises, pour in 
enough soap water to remove any such appearance. Take the 
clothes out from the boiler into the tub, and cover them with 
plenty of fresh water. Dip out part of the water from the boiler, 
add more hot water, soap and kerosene, and boil the rest of the 
clothes. Wring the clothes from the suds into plenty of clear 
water, rinse well, put them through the bluing water, and hang 
them smoothly upon the lines. Calicoes may be washed in the 
suds water, as enough of the soap and kerosene remain there to 
cleanse them well. Kinse, blue, starch, and hang them to dry. 
Plenty of soap and water with the kerosene, if these directions are 
followed, will give clear, white clothes with very little of the hard 
work necessary in rubbing clothes according to the usual manner 
of washing. 

If time and strength are to be saved, be careful to shake out 
the clothes well, and see that sheets, pillowcases, towels, etc. , hang 
smoothly from the line. When perfectly dry take down the sheets, 
fold and roll them into a smooth, tight roll, and pin down the 



ALL AROUND THE HOUSE. 595 

hems. They will be without a wrinkle on the beds, though they 
may lack the gloss the iron gives. If there is no time to iron pil- 
lowcases, treat them in the same way. Take the towels, snap 
them, fold them in the usual manner, and crease them with an 
iron. They will take less room on the shelf or in the drawer. 
Roll the nightgowns like the sheets. It is better to iron table- 
cloths, napkins, and handkerchiefs, but they look fairly well if 
rolled like the sheets. Turn, shake, stretch in shape stockings 
and flannels, and fold thefn ready for use. The starched clothes 
alone remain to be ironed. Let busy women try this plan of 
ironing. 

To Wash Blankets. — All that is necessary is an abundance of 
soft water, and soap made without resin, as it hardens the fibers 
of wool and should never be used in washing any kind of woolen 
goods. A little bluing may be used in washing white blankets. 
They should be shaken and snapped until almost dry, but it will 
take two persons to handle them. Woolen shawls, and all flannel 
articles, are much improved by being pressed with a hot iron under 
damp muslin. 

To Wash Flannels in Boiling Water. — Make a strong suds of 
boiling water and soft soap, put in the flannels, pressing them 
down with the clothes-stick ; when cool enough, rub them carefully 
between the hands, wring as dry as possible, but not with the 
wringer, shake well and pull each piece into shape ; throw imme- 
diately into another tub of boiling water thoroughly mixed with 
nice bluing. Shake them up and down with the stick ; rinse well, 
wring, shake out and pulj into shape — the snapping and pulling 
are as necessary as the washing, — and hang in a sunny place where 
the}' will dry quickly 

To Wash Flannels in Tepid Water. — If ammonia is added to 
soapsuds made with mild soap, it will prevent the flannel from be- 
coming yellow or shrinking. It is the potash and soda contained 
in sharp soap which tend to color animal fibers yellow; the shrink- 
ing may be partially due to this agenc}-, but above all to the ex- 
posure of the flannel, while wet, to the extremes of low or high 
temperatures. To preserve their softness, flannels should be 



»96 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

Washed in tepid water, rinsed in tepid water, and dried rapidly at 
a moderate heat. 

To Wash Light Cambrics and Prints. — Dissolve a'tablespoon- 
ful of alum in enough lukewarm water to rinse a dress. Dip the 
dress into it, taking care to wet thoroughly every part of it, and 
then wring it out. Have warm, not hot, suds ready, and wash 
the dress quickly ; rinse it in cold water. White castile soap is 
the best for colored cottons. Have the starch ready, cooled a lit- 
tle ; rinse the dress in it, wring it out, ^uid hang it wroug side out 
to dry where the wind will strike it rather than the sun. When 
dry, iron directly. Prints should never be sprinkled ; but, if too 
dry, they should be ironed under a damp cloth. It is better to 
wash them when washing and ironing can be done at once. 

To Wash Black Print or Percale Dresses with White Fig- 
ures. — Put them in the boiling suds, after the other clothes have 
been removed, and boil ten minutes ; cool the suds, rub out quickly, 
rinse in lukewarm water, then in very blue cold water, and starch 
in coffee starch. After the dress is dried, dip it into cold water, 
pass it through the wringer, roll in a coarse towel or sheet and 
leave two hours, then iron it on the wrong side. 

To Wash Lawn and Muslin Dresses. — They may be whitened 
in boiling suds, and bleached on the grass ; when done up, they 
are very pretty and fresh looking. Delicate-hued muslin and cam- 
bric dresses may be washed nicely by the following process : Shave 
half a pound of common hard soap into a gallon of boiling water; 
let it melt, turn it into a tub of lukewarm water ; stir a quart of 
wheat bran into a second tub of lukewarm water, and have ready 
a third tub with clear water ; put the dress into the first tub of 
suds, souse it up and down, and squeeze it out ; treat it the same 
way in the bran water ; rinse, dry and dip in starch made as for 
shirts ; dry again, and rinse thoroughly in clear water ; dry again, 
and sprinkle with a whisk-broom or sprinkler ; roll up in a thick 
cloth while the irons heat, and iron with them as hot as possible 
without scorching the dress. By taking a clear day, it is little 
trouble to do several dresses in a few hours. 

To Wash a Silk Dress. — Rip apart and shake off the dust ; 
have ready two tubs of warm soft water, make a suds of gall soap 



ALL AROUND THE HOUSE. 597 

in one tub, and use the other for rinsing ; wash the silk, one piece 
at a time, in the suds, wring gently, rinse, again wring, shake out, 
and iron with a hot iron on the wrong side. When half done, 
throw out the suds and make suds of the rinsing water, using 
fresh water for rinsing. 

To Wash Light Woolen Fabrics. — Borax is one of the most 
useful articles for softening the water and cleansing the material. 
Use in the proportion of a tablespoonful to a gallon of water, and, 
if dissolved in hot water, it makes a better lather. No thought- 
ful person will wash a woolen dress without first having ripped it 
apart, picked out all the threads, brushed the dust out, and 
marked the particularly soiled places by running a thread around 
them. Wash one piece at a time, roll up and squeeze, or pass 
through a wringer instead of twisting through the hands. Wash 
in several changes of borax water, and rinse in clear water, in 
which a well-beaten egg has been mixed ; shake thoroughly, and 
fold in sheets until evenl}' damp all through, then iron the wrong 
side with an iron hot enough to smooth nicely without scorching. 

To Wash Silk and Thread Gloves. — Wash them on the hands 
in borax water or white castile soapsuds, as if washing the hands ; 
rinse under a stream of water, and dry with a towel ; keep on the 
gloves until they are half dried ; take off carefully, and fold them 
up to look as nearl} r like new ones as possible, and lay between 
clean towels under a weight. 

To Wash G-oods that Fade. — Use crude ammonia instead of 
soap. Soiled neckties may be made to look like new by taking 
one-half a teaspoonful of ammonia to a cupful of water; wash well, 
and, if very much soiled, put through a second water, with less 
ammonia in it. Lay it on a clean, white cloth, and gently wipe 
with another until dry. 

To Wash Woolen Goods. — Avoid using soap with resin in it. 
Dissolve a large tablespoonful of borax in a pint of boiling water. 
Mix; one-quarter of it in the cold water where the goods are to be 
washed. Use soap if needed. Put in one piece at a time, and 
add more borax water, if necessary. A little salt may be added 
to the last rinsing water. Rinse in cold water ; shake well and 
hang where the clothes will dry quickly. The important thing in 



598 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

washing flannels is to have all the waters of the same temperature. 
If the first water is cold or hot, the others must be like it. When 
partially diy, fold and roll in a damp cloth. They will iron 
smoothly. To iron heavy woolen goods, as pants, vests, etc.: When 
dry spread them on an ironing-board, not table, wring a cloth out 
of clear water and lay it over the article ; iron with a hot iron 
till dry ; wet the cloth again and spread it just above the part al- 
ready ironed, but let it come half an inch or so on that which has 
been pressed, so that there will be no line to mark where the cloth 
was moved ; continue this till the whole garment has been thor- 
oughly pressed. Care must be exercised to stretch every spot that 
looks at all " fulled " or shrunk while being pressed under the 
wet cloth. Bring the outside to fit the linings, as when new, but 
if not able to do this, rip the lining and trim off to match. All 
the seams, especially of pants, must be first pressed on a press 
board ; fold the pants as they are found in the tailor's shop, and 
go over them with the wet cloth and hot iron. 

To Wash Silk Handkerchiefs. — Lay them on a smooth board, 
and rub with the palm of the hand. Use either borax or white 
castile soap to make the suds ; rinse in clear water, shake till 
nearly dry, fold evenly, lay between boards under a weight. No 
ironing is required. Silk hose and ribbons may be treated the 
same way. If the colors run, soak the pieces half an hour, stir- 
ring often ; wash and rinse in several clear waters, and add to the 
last one a teaspoonful of sugar of lead dissolved in two quarts of 
water. Or, wash in cold soft water with curd soap, rinse in cold 
soft water slightly colored with stone blue ; wring dry and stretch 
them out on a mattress, tacking them lightly. They will look as 
good as new if care is taken. 

To Wash Lace. — Make a smooth paste ; add cold water until it 
looks like milk and water, boil in a glazed vessel until transparent, 
stirring constantly. While this cools, squeeze the laces through 
soapsuds, rinsing them in clear water. For a clear white add a 
little bluing ; for ivory white omit the bluing, and for a yellow 
tinge add a few teaspoonf uls of clear coffee to the starch. Run the 
laces through the starch, squeeze, roll up in towels, and clap each 
piece separately until nearly dry ; pull gently into shape from 



ALL AROTJND THE HOUSE. 599 

time to time, and pin on a clean surface. When dry, press be- 
tween tissue paper with a hot iron ; punch the openings with an 
ivory stiletto, and pick out each loop on the edge with a coarse pin. 

To Wash Lace Curtains. — Shake the dust from the lace, Lay in 
clear, cold, soft water for an hour, wring out and wash in warm 
water in which a little soda has been dissolved ; wash in several 
waters, or until perfectly clean ; rinse in water well blued ; blue 
the boiled starch quite deeply, dip in the curtains and squeeze, but 
do not wring them dry. Pin some sheets down to the carpet in a 
vacant, airy room, and pin on the curtains stretched to exactly the 
size they were before being wet. In a few hours thej- will be dry 
and read}' to put up. The whole process of washing and pinning 
down should occupy as little time as possible, as lace will shrink 
more than any other cotton goods when long wet. Or, fasten 
them in a, pair of frames, made very like the old-fashioned quilt- 
ing-frames, thickly studded along the inside with the smallest size 
of galvanized tenter-hooks, in which to fasten the lace, and hav- 
ing holes and wooden pins with which to vaiy the length and 
breadth to suit the different sizes of curtains. The curtains should 
always be measured before being wet, and stretched in the frames 
to that size to prevent shrinking. Five or six curtains of the same 
size may be put in, one above the other; and all dried at once. 
The frames may rest on four chairs. 

To Wash Lace Ruchinos. — Wash with the hands in warm suds; 
if much soiled soak in warm water two or three hours, rinse thor- 
oughly, and starch in thick starch, dry outdoors if the day be 
clear; if not, place between dry cloth, roll tightly and leave till 
dry ; then, with the fingers, open each row and pull out smoothly; 
use clear water to dampen the fingers or lace ; pull out straight 
the outer edge of each with the thumb and finger, and draw the 
binding over the point or side of a hot iron. If the ruche is sin- 
gle, or on 1}- two rows, it can be ironed after being smoothed by 
the first process. Blonde or net, that has become yellow, can be 
bleached by hanging in the sun or lying over night in the dew. 

To Wash Thread Lace. — Cover a bottle with white flannel, 
baste on the lace carefulby, and rub with white soap ; place the 
bottle in a jar filled with warm suds, let it remain two or three 



600 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

days, changing the water several times, and boil with the finest 
white clothes on washing day ; after it cools a little, rinse several 
times in plenty of cold water, wrap a soft dry towel around it, and 
place it in the sun ; when dry, unwind, but do not starch it. 

To Wash Brown Linen. — Always use starch-water and hay tea. 
Make the flour starch in the ordinary way. For one dress, put on 
the stove a common-sized milk pan full of timothy hay, pour on 
water, cover, and boil until it is dark green ; turn it into the starch, 
let the goods soak in it a few minutes, and wash without soap ; 
the starch will clean the fabric and no rinsing is necessary. 

To Wash Red Table Linen. — Use tepid water, with a little pow- 
dered borax, which serves to set the color ; wash the linen sepa- 
rately and quickly, using very little soap ; rinse in tepid water, 
containing a little boiled starch ; hang in the shade, and iron when 
almost dry. 

To Wash Delicate Colored Muslins. — Boil wheat bran, about 
two quarts to a dress, in soft water half an hour, let it cool, strain 
the liquor, and use it instead of soap ; it removes dirt, keeps the 
color, the clothes only need rinsing in one water, and starching is 
unnecessary. Suds and rinsing water for colored articles should 
be used as cold as possible. Or, make thick corn-meal mush, well 
salted, and use instead of soap ; rinse in one or two waters, and 
do not starch. 

To Wash Colored Muslins. — Wash in warm, not hot, suds, 
made with soft water and good white soap. Wash only one piece 
at a time. Change the suds as soon as it looks dingy. Rinse 
first in clear then in slightly blued water. Squeeze quite dry, but 
do not wring them. Hang them in a shady place as sunshine fades 
all colors. 

To Clean Alpaca. — Put the goods in a boiler half -full of cold 
soft water and boil three minutes. Wring dry, and let it lie half 
an hour in very dark indigo water. Wring out and iron while 
damp. Or, sponge with strained coffee. Iron on the wrong side 
with black cloth under the goods. 

To Clean Silk and Woolen Dress Goods. — Any silk or woolen 
goods may be washed in gasoline, rubbing as if in water, without 
injury. The dirt is quickly and easily removed, but no change 



ALL AROUND THE HOUSE. 



601 



takes place in the' color of the fabric. Great care must be taken 
not t,o use the gasoline near a stove or light as a gas arises from it 
which is very inflammable, and might take fire. 

To Clean Black Lace. — Take the lace and wipe off all the dust 
carefully, with a cambric handkerchief. Pin it on a board, in- 
serting a pin in each projecting point of the lace. Spot it all over 
with coffee, and do not remove the pins until it is perfectly dry. 
It will look quite fresh and new. 

To Clean Ribbons. — Dissolve white soap in boiling water ; when 
cool enough to bear the hand, pass the ribbons through it, rubbing 
gently so as not to injure the texture ; rinse through lukewarm 
water, and pin on a board to dry. If the colors are bright yellow, 
maroon, crimson, or scarlet, add a few drops of oil of vitriol to 
the rinse-water ; if the color is bright scarlet, add a few drops of 
muriate of tin. 

To Do Up Black Silk. — Boil an old kid glove, cut in small 
shreds, in a pint of water till it is reduced to half a pint ; sponge 
the silk with it ; roll tight, and ten minutes after, iron on the 
wrong side while wet. The silk will retain its softness and luster, 
and, at the same time, have the "body" of new silk. 

To Clean Velvet. — Invert a hot flatiron, place over it a single 
thickness of wet cotton cloth, lay on this the velvet, wrong side 
next the wet cloth, rub gently with a dry cloth until the pile is 
well raised ; take off the iron, lay on a table, and brush it with a 
soft brush or cloth. 

To Cleanse Articles Made of White Zephyr. — Rub in flour 
or magnesia, changing often. Shake and hang in the open air a 
short time. 

To Clean and Press Silks. — Shake out all the dust, clean well 
with a flannel cloth, rubbing it up and down over the silk ; this 
takes out all dust that may be left ; sponge the silk with clear cof- 
fee on the right side, sponging across the silk, and not down the 
length, and with a moderately-warm iron press what is intended 
for the wrong side. After sponging, it is better to wait a fetf 
minutes before pressing, as the irons will not be so apt to stick. 
The coffee removes every particle of grease and restores the bril- 
liancy of the silk. Satin should be pressed on the right side. 



602 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

To Clean Wash Boilers. — Wash with sweet milk, or grease 
with lard. To prevent rust, thoroughly dry the boiler after rins- 
ing with milk before putting away for the week. 

To Prevent Blue from Fading. — Put an ounce of sugar of 
lead into a pail of water ; soak the material in the solution for 
two hours, and let it dry before washing and ironing ; good for all 
shades of blue. 

To Remove the Color from Buff Calico. — If some kinds of 
buff calico are dipped in strong soda water, the color will be re- 
moved and the figures of other colors remain on a white ground. 
This is valuable sometimes, as buff calico spots easily. If pink 
calico be dipped in vinegar and water after rinsing, the color will 
be brighter. 

To Remove Grease from Silk, Cotton, Linen or Worsted 
Goods. — Rub magnesia freely on both sides of silk or worsted 
goods and hang away. Benzine, gasoline, ether or soap, will take 
out spots from silk, but the goods must not be rubbed. Oil of 
turpentine or benzine will remove spots of paint, varnish or pitch 
from white or colored cotton or woolen goods. After using it, 
they should be washed in soapsuds. Spots from sperm candles, 
stearine, and the like, should be softened and removed by ninety- 
five per cent, alcohol, then sponged off with a weak alcohol, and a 
small quantity of ammonia added to it. Holding white cotton or 
linen over the fumes of burning sulphur, and wetting in warm 
chlorine water, will take out wine or fruit stains. The sooner the 
remedy is applied, after any of these spots or stains are discovered, 
the more effectual the restoration. For white linen or cotton use 
soapsuds or weak rye ; for calicoes, warm soapsuds, and for wool- 
ens, soapsuds or ammonia. On silks use either yolk of egg with 
water, gasoline, magnesia, ether, benzine, ammonia, or French 
chalk. 

. To Remove Grease from Silks, Woolens, Paper, Floors, 
etc. — Grate French chalk thickly over the spot cover with brown 
paper, set on it a hot flatiron, and let it remain until cool ; repeat 
if necessary. The iron must not be so hot as to burn paper or 
cloth. Common chalk may be used but is not as good. 

To Remove Iron Rust.— -While rinsing clothes, take those spotted 



ALL AROUND THE HOUSE. 603 

with rust, wring out, dip a wet finger in oxalic acid and rub on the 
spot ; then rub on salt, hold it on a hot surface and the spot will 
disappear ; rinse again, rubbing the place a little. 

To Remove Fruit Stains. — Colored cottons or woolens stained 
with wine or fruit should be wet in alcohol and ammonia, and 
sponged off gently, not rubbed, with alcohol ; if the material will 
warrant it, wash in tepid soapsuds. Stains ma}- be easily removed 
from white cotton by using boiling water before they are soaped 
or wet ; pour it on until they mostly disappear, and let the 
goods lie in it covered till cold. Peaches, some kinds of pears, 
and sweet apples, make the worst stains ; and if boiling water is 
not sufficient, a little j a velle water may be used; if skilfully man- 
aged, it will not need to be used often. Silks may be wet with 
this preparation when injured b} T these stains. Spirits of camphor 
will take out grass stains. Saturate the cloth thoroughly, rub 
with the fingers, let the sun shine upon the stains, and if needed 
apply the camphor again. 

To Remove Ink Stains from Clothing. — Dip the spots in pure 
melted tallow ; wash out the tallow and the ink will come out. If 
articles are rubbed out in cold water while the stain is fresh, the 
stain will often be entirely removed. Or, immediately saturate 
with milk, soak it up with a rag, apply more, rub well, and in a 
few minutes the ink will disappear. 

To Remove the Stains op Nitrate of Silver from the Flesh 
or White Goods. — Dissolve iodine in alcohol, and apply to the 
stain ; rub the spot with a wet piece of cyanide of potassium, and 
the stain will immediately disappear ; wash the hands or goods in 
cold water. 

To Take Out Machine Oil. — Rub with a little lard or butter 
and wash in warm water and soap, or, rub first with a little soap 
and wash out in cold water. 

To Take Out Mildew. — Wet the cloth and rub on soap and 
chalk, mixed together, and lay in the sun ; or lay the cloth in but- 
termilk for a short time, then place in the hot sun ; or wet with 
lemon juice, and treat in the same way. 

To Take Out Paint. — Equal parts of ammonia and spirits of 
turpentine will take paint out of clothing, no matter how* dry or 



604 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

hard it may be. Saturate the spot two or three times and wash in 
soapsuds. 

To Take Out Scorch. — -If a shirt bosom, or other article has 
been scorched in ironing, lay it where bright sunshine will fall di- 
rectly on it. Peel and slice two onions, extract the juice b} r 
pounding and squeezing ; cut up half an ounce of fine white soap, 
and add to the juice with two ounces of fuller's earth, and half a 
pint of vinegar. Boil all together. When cool spread over the 
scorched linen, and let dry ; wash and boil out the linen, and the 
spots will disappear unless burned so badly as to break the threads. 

To Take Out Spots. — If produced by an acid they may be re- 
moved from cloth or calico by touching the spot with ammonia. 
Spots produced b}' an alkali »ma} r be removed by moistening with 
vinegar or tartaric acid. 

Coffee Starch. — Make a paste of two tablespoonfuls of starch 
and cold water ; when smooth, stir in a pint of perfectly clear cof- 
fee boiling hot ; boil five or ten minutes, stir with a spermaceti or 
wax candle, strain, and use for all dark calicoes, percales, and 
muslins. 

Flour Starch. — Have a clean saucepan on the stove with one 
quart boiling water, into which stir three heaping tablespoonfuls of 
flour, previously mixed smooth in a little cold water ; stir steadily 
until it boils, and boil five minutes ; strain while hot through a crash 
towel. The above quantity is enough for one dress, and will make 
it nice and stiff. Flour starch is considered better for all calicoes 
than fine starch, since it makes them stiffer, and the stiffness is 
longer retained. A little white glue may be added after it is dis- 
solved in water, and dampness will not so readily affect the dress. 

To Make Fine Starch. — Wet the starch smooth with cold 
water, in a large tin pan ; pour on a quart of boiling water to two 
or three tablespoonfuls of starch, stirring rapidly all the while ; 
place on stove, stir until it boils, and then occasionally. Boil 
five minutes, or until the starch is perfectly clear. Some add a 
little salt, or butter, or stir with a sperm candle ; others add a 
teaspoonful of kerosene to one quart starch ; this prevents the 
stickiness sometimes so annoying in ironing. Anyone of these 



ACL AROUND THE HOUSE. 605 

ingredients is an improvement to flour starch. Many, just before 
using starch add a little bluing. Cold starch is made from starch 
dissolved in cold water ; be careful not to have it too thick. 

To Stiffen Linen Cuffs and Collars. — Add a small piece of 
white wax to a pint of fine starch. If the iron sticks, soap the 
bottom of it, or rub it on salt, or a waxed cloth. 

Enamel for Shirt Bosoms. — Melt together with a gentle heat, 
one ounce of white wax and two ounces of spermaceti ; prepare a 
sufficient quantity of starch for a dozen bosoms, put into it a 
piece of enamel the size of a hazel nut, and in proportion for a 
large number. This gives linen a beautiful polish. 

Silver Polish for Shirts. — One ounce each of isinglass and 
borax, one teaspoonf ul of white glue, two teaspoonf uls of white 
of an egg. Cook well in two quarts of fine starch. Starch and 
dry. Before ironing, apply to the bosom and cuffs with a cloth 
till well dampened. Iron at once with a hot glossing iron. 

To Dry-starch, Fold and Iron Shirts. — In doing up shirts, 
wristbands and collars should be starched first if the collars are 
sewed on. Dip them into the hot starch, and as soon as the hand 
can bear the heat, dipping the hand in cold water often will expe- 
dite the work, rub the starch in thoroughly, taking care that no 
motes or lumps of starch adhere to the linen. Starch the shirt 
bosom the same way, keeping the starch hot in a pan of water. 
Rub it into the linen carefully, pass the finger under the plaits and 
raise them up that the starch may penetrate all evenly. Shake 
out the shirt, fold both sides of the bosom together, and bring the 
shoulders and side seams together evenly ; lay the sleeves one 
over the other, and, after pulling the wristbands into shape 
smoothly, fold together, roll the wristbands tightly, and, with the 
sleeves, fold and lay evenly on the sides of the shirt. Then turn 
the sides with the sleeves over on the front, and beginning at the 
neck roll the whole tightly together, wrap in a towel and let it re- 
main several hours before ironing. To do up shirt bosoms in the 
most perfect way, one must have a polishing iron — a small iron 
rounded over and highly polished on the ends and sides. Spread 
the bosom on a hard and very smooth board, with only one thick- 



606 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

ness of cotton cloth sewed tight across it. Cover with a wet cloth, 
iron quickly with a hot iron, remove the cloth, and with a polish- 
ing iron as hot as it can be used without scorching, rub the bosom 
quick and hard up and down, not crosswise. Use only the rounded 
part of the front of the iron ; that puts all the friction on a small 
part at one time, and gives the full benefit of all the gloss in 
starch or linen. Or, dip collars, cuffs and bosoms into hot starch 
and hang to dry. When ready to fold, mix a little elastic starch 
with cold water and wet the dry-starched portions of the shirts 
thoroughly. Sprinkle the shirts with water, and fold according to 
directions. Moisten with the starch-water when ironing. A little 
bluing may be added to the cold starch. . Collars and cuffs should 
be shaken out, stretched smooth, and laid a little distance from 
each other on a towel. Fold carefully, so that the towel will lie 
between the starched articles. To iron them, cover with damp, 
thin linen, smooth quickly with a hot iron, take off the cloth, and 
finish the process. Iron after two hours. 

Here is Another Method. — To fine starch add a piece of 
enamel the size of a hazel nut for a dozen bosoms ; if this is not 
at hand use a tablespoonful of gum arabic solution made by pouring 
boiling water upon gum arabic and letting it stand until clear and 
transparent. Strain the starch through a hair-strainer or a piece 
of thin muslin. Have the shirt turned wrong side out ; dip the 
bosoms carefully in the fine starch made according to recipe, 
squeeze out and rub the starch evenly into the linen ; this should 
be very thoroughly done or the bosoms and collars will not be stiff 
enough. Hang up to dry, and three hours before ironing dip the 
bosoms and other starched parts in clean water, wring and fold up 
tightly. First iron the back and shoulders, then the sleeves, 
wristbands, neckband, and finally the bosom. Place the bosom- 
board under the bosom, and with a dampened cloth rub from the 
top to the bottom. With a smooth, moderately hot flatiron begin 
at the top and iron downwards, continue until the bosom is per- 
fectly dry and shining. The bosom, cuffs and collars, and all fine 
work, will look clearer and better if first ironed under a piece of 
thin, old muslin. It takes off the first heat of the iron and re- 
moves any lumps of starch. 



ALL AROUND THE HOUSE. 607 

To Bleach Muslin. — Scald in suds after washing well in cold 
water ; it sets the yellow shade to put it into hot suds first. Lay 
on clean grass in the sun, leave out all night, if safe, if not put 
in clean water over night ; in the morning repeat the scalding and 
return to the grass. It takes time to bleach white, and the chances 
are that the value of the muslin will be deteriorated about half 
when the process is finished. A better way is to soak, over night 
in buttermilk, and wash out, repeating the process several times. 

To Whiten Laces, Collars, etc. — Put them into a glass jar 
with strong soapsuds, and let stand in the sun for seven days, 
shaking occasionally, and changing the water. 

Care of Irons. — When irons become rough or smoky, lay a lit- 
tle fine salt on a flat surface and rub them well ; it will prevent 
their sticking to anything starched, and make them smooth. Or, 
scour with bath brick before heating ; when hot rub well with salt, 
then with beeswax tied in a rag, and wipe clean on a dry cloth. 
Put the irons on a piece of fine sandpaper, or a hard, smooth board 
covered with brick dust, to remove starch. Rubbing the iron with 
the wax, even if no starch adheres, adds to the glossiness of the 
linen that is ironed. 

Apron Pocket for Clothespins. — Use denim or drilling in- 
stead of calico. It may be made like an apron with two large 
pockets bound around with another color, or a very large pouch, 
with strings to tie round the waist. One yard of material will be 
enough. Or, turn up at the bottom twelve inches of the material 
and make three pockets by stitching through the double cloth. 

Erasive Fluid. — For the removal of spots on furniture, cloth, 
silks, and other fabrics, when the color is not drawn, without in- 
jury : One ounce castile soap, four of aqua ammonia, one of gly- 
cerine, and one of spirits of wine ; dissolve the soap in two quarts 
of soft water, add the other ingredients, and apply with a soft 
sponge. 

Washing Fluid and How to Use it. — One pound sal soda, 
half a pound stone lime, five quarts soft water, and one-fifth 
pound borax. Boil a short time in a copper or brass kettle, stir- 
ring occasionally ; let it settle, and pour off the clear fluid into a 
stone jug, and cork for use^ soak the clothes over night in clear 



608 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

water, wrjng out, and soap all parts that seem much soiled ; have 
the boiler half filled with water, and when scalding stir in one cup- 
ful of fluid, and put in the clothes. Boil half an hour, rub lightly 
through one suds, rinse well in the bluing water, and the work is 
done. Instead of soaking clothes over night, they may soak in 
suds a few hours before washing. For each additional boiler of 
clothes add half a cup of fluid; of course boiling in the same 
water through the whole. If more water is needed in the boiler, 
dip it from the fresh suds. This fluid brightens instead of fading 
the colors in calico, and is good for colored flannels. It does not 
rot clothes but they must not lie long in the water ; the various 
processes must follow each other in rapid succession until the 
clothes are on the line. A little of this fluid in hot water will re- 
move grease spots from floors and other places, and will quickly 
cleanse tinware, pots and kettles. Or, dissolve one-half bar of 
the best grade of soap, one ounce saltpetre, one ounce borax, in 
four quarts soft water over a fire ; when cool, add five ounces of 
ammonia. This compound may be bottled, and is good for an in- 
definite length of time. Used as soft soap. 

Boiled Soap. — There is no romance or poetry in making boiled 
soap, only patient, hard work. Place the grease, consisting of 
soup-bones, and all kinds of fat that accumulate in a kitchen, in a 
kettle, filling it half full ; if there is too much fat, it can be 
skimmed off after the soap is cold. The lye will consume all the 
fat that is needed and no more. The kettle should be in an out- 
house or out of doors. Make a fire under one side ; heat very hot, 
and stir it to prevent burning ; put in the lye, a gallon at a time, 
watch closely until it boils, as it sometimes runs over at the be- 
ginning. Add lye until the kettle is full enough to boil well. 
Soap should boil from the side and not the middle, as this would 
cause it to boil over. To test the soap, add one spoonful of soap 
to one of rain water ; if it stirs up very thick, the soap is good 
and will keep ; if it becomes thinner, it is unfit for use. 

This is the result of one of three causes : it is too weak, there 
is a deposit of dirt, or it is too strong. Continue to boil for a few 
hours, when it should flow from the stick, with which it is stirred, 



ALL AROUND THE HOUSE. 609 

like thick molasses; but if after boiling it remains thin, let it 
stand over night, removing the fire ; drain very carefully into an- 
other vessel, being particular to prevent any sediment from pass- 
ing. Wash the kettle, return the soap and bring to a boil, and if 
the cause was dirt, it will now be thick and good, otherwise it is 
too strong and needs rain water. Pour in a small quantity at a 
time, until it becomes thick. If other difficulties appear, use 
good common sense to meet and overcome them. 

An Economical Way op Saving Soap Grease. — Have a kettle 
of lyo standing in the yard in summer time, or if there is not a 
yard, in the cellar. If there are any pieces of fat left after using 
a ham, or lumps of suet not used in cooking a steak, put them in 
a skillet, fry brown, and add to the lye ; thus every particle of fat 
will be saved, and there is no fear of insects, rats or mice, getting 
into and destroying the grease. Keep the kettle covered during 
the night or when raining, but uncovered in the sunshine, stirring 
occasionally. In the fall, all that is necessary is to make a fire 
under the kettle, and let it boil a short time, adding more lye or 
grease as needed. If there are too many bones in it, or any par- 
ticles have not become consumed, skim them out and put them in 
a pot of weak, hot lye, stirring them with the skimmer to rinse off 
all the soap ; skim them out and throw away, and the pot of lye 
may be added to the kettle of soap. Soft soap should be kept in 
a dry place in the cellar, and is better if allowed to stand three 
months before using. 

Family Soap. — Much of the toilet and laundry soap in the mar- 
ket is adulterated with injurious, and, to some persons, poisonous 
substances, by which diseases of the skin are occasioned or greatly 
aggravated, and great suffering results, which is rarel}" traced to 
the real cause. The fat tried from animals which have died of 
disease, if not thoroughly saponified, is poisonous, and sometimes 
produces death. If, in making soap, the mass is heated to too 
high a degree, a film of soap forms around the particles of fat ; 
if at this stage resin, sal-soda, silicate, and other adulterations are 
added, the fat is not saponified, but filmed, and if poisonous or 
diseased, it so remains, and is dangerous to use. A bar of such 



610 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

soap has an oily feeling, and is unfit for use. If it feels sticky, 
it has too much resin in it. The slippery feeling which belongs 
to soap properly made cannot be mistaken. Another test of pure 
soft or hard soap is its translucent or semi-transparent appearance. 
Soft soap that is cloudy is not thoroughly saponified, or else has 
been made of dirty or impure grease. It is not only safer but 
more economical to buy pure soap, as the adulterations increase 
the quantity without adding to the erasive power. Some of the 
brown soaps sold in the market are seventy-five per cent, resin, and 
the buyer gets only twenty-five per cent, of what he wants for his 
money. Fifteen per cent, of resin improves the qualit} 7 , but any 
excess damages it, and is worse than useless. Almost any family 
may make excellent soft soap, with very little expense, by saving 
grease and using lye from pure hard-wood ashes or pure potash. 

To Set a Leach. — Bore several auger holes in the bottom of a 
barrel, or use one without a bottom ; prepare a large board, set 
the barrel on it, and cut a groove around just outside the barrel, 
making one groove from this to the edge of the board to carry off 
the lye, with a groove around it, running into one in the center of 
the board. Place it two feet from the ground, and tip so that the 
lye may run easily from the board into the vessel below prepared 
to receive it. Put half-bricks or stones around the edge inside the 
barrel, place on them sticks two inches wide, inclining to the cen- 
ter ; cover with two inches of straw and two pounds of slacked 
lime ; put in the ashes, a half bushel at a time, pack well by using 
a pounder, spade, or common ax ; continue to pack until the bar- 
rel is full, leaving a funnel-shaped hollow in the center large 
enough to hold several quarts of water. Use boiling hot soft Or 
rain water, and let the first water disappear before adding more. 
If the ashes are packed very tightly, it may require two or three 
days before the lye will begin to run, but it is much better as it 
will be stronger. If a large quantity of lye is needed, prepare a 
board long enough to hold two or more barrels, one back of the 
other, with a groove in the center the entire length of the board ; 
on this place the barrels prepared as above. 

To Cleanse Grease. — Place all grease of whatever kind, soup 



ALL AROUND THE HOUSE. 611 

bones, ham rinds, cracklings, or any refuse fat, in a kettle, with 
lye weak enough to boil it until all the particles of fat are ex- 
tracted ; let it cool, then skim off the grease, which is now ready 
to make Sun Soap. No fat should be put away for soap grease 
until fried thoroughly. 

Made-over Soap. — Shave all the small bits of soap, cover them 
with soft water, soak over night, and in the morning add more 
soft water ; boil until thoroughly melted, and of the consistency 
of taffy, and pour into moulds. 

Gall Soap. — For washing woolens, silks, or fine prints liable 
to fade : One pint beef's gall, two pounds common bar soap cut 
fine, one quart boiling soft water ; boil slowly, stirring occasion- 
ally until well mixed : pour into a flat vessel, and when cold cut 
into pieces to dry. 

Soap Mixture. — Dissolve five bars of soap in four gallons of 
soft water, one and three-fourths pounds of sal soda, and three- 
fourths pounds of borax ; stir while cooling. Use one cupful for 
suds to soak the clothes ; wring out and put into the boiler ; use 
the same amount for boiling the clothes. 

Hard Soap. — Place one gallon of good soft soap in a kettle ; 
when it begins to boil, add a pint of common salt, stirring it all 
the time until it is dissolved, then cool. Next day, cut out the 
soap in squares, scrape off the soft, dark part that adheres to the 
lower side of the cakes, pour out the lj-e, and wash the kettle; place 
the soap, cut in thin slices, in the kettle with more weak lye. If 
the lye is strong add rain water, pint for pint ; let it boil until the 
soap is dissolved. While boiling, stir in a pint of salt as before 
and cool. When perfectly hard, cut it in cakes, scraping off 
the soft lye part that adheres to the lower side, and lay on boards 
in the sun, turning it each day until sufficientl}- dry. To make a 
twelve or fourteen -gallon kettle of soft soap into hard, three quarts 
of salt, stirred in each time, will be sufficient. As soap differs in 
strength, the quantity of salt must also differ, and the stronger 
the soap the more salt is required. A good general rule is : - ' When 
the soap is boiling, stir in salt until it curdles and becomes whit- 
ish in color." Test, by placing some in a shallow pan to cool ; a 
few minutes will show if enough salt has been used. 



612 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

Potash Soap. — Put into the soap-barrel sixteen pounds of clean 
grease, if melted it will hasten the process of making, sixteen 
pounds of good white potash, and a pail of warm water. Stir 
thoroughly. Add daily a pail of warm water ; stir several times 
a day until a clear, light jelly is formed. This amount of grease 
and potash will require water enough to fill the barrel. It is bet- 
ter to be three months old before using. Green soap is trying for 
the hands. 

Soft Soap. — Cut three pounds- of Kirk's soap into small pieces; 
add two gallons of water, four ounces of pure carbonate of soda, 
and dissolve over the fire. When melted, stir in two tablespoon- 
fuls of salt ; very nice for woolens and calicoes. 

Sun Soap. — Add one pound of cleansed grease, spoiled lard or 
butter, to a gallon of lye strong enough to float an egg. Set the 
vessel in the sun and stir thoroughly each day until it is good 
soap. This gives it a golden color. It may be used in washing 
even laces and fine cambrics with perfect safety. 

Substitute for Washing-Soda. — A German scientific journal 
recommends laundresses to use hyposulphite of soda in place of 
common washing-soda. It does not attack the fabric in any way, 
and at the same time exerts bleaching properties which greatly im- 
prove the appearance of linen and calicoes. 

The Use op Turpentine in Washing. — Turpentine should 
never be used when washing is done with the hands ; but when 
the clothes are pounded in a barrel in the old-fashioned way, or 
when the rubbing is done by a washing-machine, a tablespoonf ul 
of turpentine added to a pint of soft soap, taking enough of the 
mixture to make a good suds for each lot of clothes, aids in re- 
moving the dirt. Care must be taken not to handle the turpentine 
with the hands, nor to breathe the fumes, as it is injurious to some 
persons ; rinse the clothes thoroughly, or the clothing may retain 
enough turpentine to be hurtful when worn next the skin. 

MARKETING. 
In order to buy meat well and economically, every housekeeper, 
if ignorant in this matter, should apply to a reliable butcher, pay- 
ing him, if need be, for information how to select and cut meat, 



ALL AROUND THE HOUSE. 



613 



how to distinguish between the various parts, and what kind of 
cooking is most appropriate. Unless prevented by circumstances, 
the housekeeper should see the meat before ordering, as no one 
else is as much interested in the matter. It is best to pa}^ for the 
meat when purchased ; those who trust rightly require a certain 
rate of interest, when obliged to wait for payment beyond a spe- 
cified date. Buy from respectable dealers in the neighborhood, 
rather than from transient and irresponsible parties, for the dealer 
will rectify a mistake at once ; the other cannot be trusted. If a 
dealer imposes on the customer intentionally, he should receive a 
wholesome lesson by the withdrawal of the family patronage. 

Meat should always be wiped with a damp, cle,an towel as soon 
as it comes from the shop, and in loins the pipe which runs along 
the bone should be removed as it soon becomes tainted. Never 
buy bruised meat. 

When necessary to keep meat a length of time, sprinkle it with 
either black or red pepper. It can be easily washed off when 
wanted for cooking. Powdered charcoal is excellent to prevent 
meat from tainting. Meat which has been kept on ice, must be 
cooked immediately, and it is better to place meats, poultry, game, 
etc. , near but not on the ice, as it is the cold air, not the ice, which 
arrests decay. All meats, except veal, are better when kept for a 
few days in a cool place. 

Beep. — In buying, select that which has a cheny-red color after 
a cut has been, for a few moments, exposed to the air. The fat 
should be of a light straw color, and the meat marbled through- 
out with fat. If the beef is immature, the color of the lean part 
will be pale and dull, the bones small, and the fat veiy white. 
High-colored, coarse-grained beef, with the fat a deep yellow, 
should be rejected. In corn-fed beef, the fat is yellowish, while 
that fatted on grasses is whiter. In cow-beef the fat is whiter than 
in ox-beef. Inferior meat from old and ill-fed animals has a coarse, 
skinny fat, and a dark-red, lean appearance. Ox-beef, if not too 
old, is the sweetest, most juicy, and the most economical. When 
meat pressed by the finger rises up quickly, it is prime, but if the 
dent disappears slowly or remains, it is poor in quality. Any 



614 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK 

greenish tints about either fat or lean, or slipperiness of surface, 
indicates that the meat has been kept so long that putrif action has 
begun, and is, consequently, not fit for use. 

Tastes differ as to the choice cuts, and dealers cut meats differ- 
ently. The tenderloin, which is the choicest part, and is some- 
times removed by itself, lies under the short ribs and close to the 
backbone, and is usually cut through with the sirloin and porter- 
house steaks. Of these, the porterhouse is generally preferred, 
the part nearest the thin bone being the sweetest. If the tender- 
loin is wanted it may be obtained by buying an edgebone steak, 
the remainder of which, after removing the tenderloin, is equal to 
the sirloin. The small porterhouse steaks are the most econom- 
ical, but in large steaks the coarse and tough parts may be used 
for soups, stews, or, after boiling, for hash. A round steak, when 
the leg is not cut down too far, is sweet and juicy, though it is in- 
clined to toughness. It may be chopped fine, seasoned, and made 
into Hamburger steak, or into breakfast croquettes, as there is no 
waste in it and it is the most economical to buy. The interior 
part of the round is the tenderest. Porterhouse is cheaper than 
sirloin, having less bone. Rump steak and round, if well pounded 
to make them tender, have the best flavor. The best beef for 
a la mode is the round ; remove bone and trim off the gristle. 
For corned beef, the round is the best. 

The roasting pieces are the sirloin and the ribs, the latter being 
most economical for the family table, the bones forming an excel- 
lent basis for soup ; the meat, when boned, rolled up, which should 
be done by the dealer, and roasted, is in good form for the carver, 
as it enables him to distribute equally the upper part with the fat- 
ter and more membranous portions. A roast, if cooked rare, and 
served in this way, may be cooked a second time. The best beef 
roast for three persons is two and a half, or three, pounds of por- 
terhouse. There are roasts and other meats equally good in the 
fore quarter of beef, but the proportion of bone to meat is greater. 
Lamb. — It is good at a year old, and more digestible than most 
immature meats. Spring lamb is prized, apparently, because unsea- 
sonable. It is much inferior to the best mutton. The meat 



ALL AROUND THE HOUSE. 615 

should be light red and fat. Tf the weather is cool, it may be 
kept a day or two before cooking, but it tends to speed)' decay. 
On the other hand, if cooked too soon after killing, it is stringy 
and indigestible. In the fore quarter of lamb, if not fresh, the large 
neck-vein will be greenish in color when it should be blue. If the 
hind quarter is stale, the kidney-fat will have a musty smell. 
Mutton.— It should be fat, and the fat clear, hard and white. Be- 
ware of lean mutton with flabby and yellow fat. An abundance 
of fat is a source of waste, but as the lean part of fat mutton is 
much more juicy and tender than any other, choose fat mutton. 
The longer mutton is hung before being cooked, the better it is, 
provided it does not become tainted. A saddle or haunch of mut- 
ton washed daily with vinegar, and dried thoroughly after each 
washing, will keep some time. In warm weather rub pepper and 
ground ginger over it to keep off flies. The leg has the least fat, 
in proportion to weight ; the shoulder is next. The least propor- 
tion of bone is in the leg. After the dealer has cut off all he can 
be persuaded to remove, it will need to be trimmed freely before 
boiling. The flesh of mutton differs in color from that of beef ; 
beef is a bright carnation, mutton is a deep, dark red. The hind 
quarter of mutton is best for roasting. The ribs ma)' be used for 
chops, but the leg chops are more economical as there is much less 
bone, and no hard meat. For roasts, choose the shoulder, the 
saddle, or the loin or haunch. The leg should be boiled. Small 
rib chops are best for broiling ; those cut from the leg are gener- 
ally tough ; cutlets to bake are taken from the neck. Almost any 
part will do for broth. Remove as much of the fat as practicable; 
cut into small pieces and simmer slowly until the meat falls to 
pieces. Drain, skim off the remaining fat, and thicken with rice 
or vermicelli. Mutton is in season at an) - time, but is not so good 
in autumn. 

Pork. — Care must be taken in its selection. If ill-fed or dis- 
eased, no meat is more injurious to the health. The flesh must be 
fine-grained, and both fat and lean, very white. The rind must be 
smooth and cool to, the touch. If clammy, the pork is stale and to 
be rejected. If the fat is full of small kernels it indicates disease. 



616 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

In good bacon the rind is thin, the fat firm, and the lean tender. 
Rusty bacon has yellow streaks in it. Fresh pork should seldom be 
eaten. The best hams, whether corned, or cured and smoked, weigh 
from eight to fifteen pounds ; they have a thin skin, solid fat, and 
a small, short, tapering leg or shank. In selecting them, run a 
knife along the bone on the fleshy side ; if it comes out clean the 
ham is good, but if the knife is smeared it is spoiled. Hams may 
be steamed ; keep the water under the steamer boiling, and allow 
twenty minutes to the pound. When done, brown slightly in the 
oven. 

Tongue. — Beef's, calf's, lamb's, sheep's and pig's tongues may 
be procured at the meat shops, and they are prepared in the same 
way. Calf's tongue is considered best, but it is usually sold with 
the head ; beef's tongue is what is generally referred to when 
tongue is mentioned. Lamb's tongue is very nice. In purchas- 
ing, choose those which are thick, firm, and have plenty of fat on 
the under side. 

Veal. —It is best from calves not less than four, nor more than eight 
weeks old. If younger, it is unfit for food; and if older, the 
mother cow does not furnish enough food, and it is apt to fall 
away ; besides, the change to grass diet changes the character of 
the flesh ; it becomes darker and less juicy. The meat should be 
clear and firm, and the fat, white. If dark and thin, with tissues 
hanging about the bone loosely, it is not good. Veal will not 
keep so long as older meat, especially in hot or damp weather, and 
when it has passed the point of perfect soundness, the fat is soft 
and moist, the meat flabby, spotted, and inclined to be porous like 
a sponge. 

The hind quarter is the choicest part. It is usually divided into 
two parts, called the loin and the leg. When the leg is large it is 
divided into two joints, and the thin end is called the "kidney 
end," and the other the "thick end." From the legs are cut the 
fillet and veal cutlets. The knuckle of veal is the part left after 
the fillets and cutlets are removed. Many prefer the breast of 
veal for roasting, stewing, pies, etc. It vaay be boned so as to 
roll, or a large hole may be cut in it to make room for the stuffing. 



ALL AROUND THE HOUSE. 617 

The neck of veal is used for stewing, fricassee, pies, etc. Veal 
chops are best for frying ; cutlets are more apt to be tough. Veal 
should be avoided in summer. Though veal and lamb contain less 
nutrition, in proportion to their weight, than beef and mutton, 
they are often preferred to these on account of the delicacy of 
their texture and flavor. 

Veal sweetbreads, if property cooked, make one of the most 
delicate meat dishes that we have ; but care must be taken in se- 
lecting them, as there are two kiuds, and only one kind is very 
good. It is found in the throat of the calf, and when fresh and 
perfect it is plump, white and fat. The other, which does very 
well for croquettes, or any dish where it may be chopped, lies be- 
low the diaphragm, and is really the pancreas. However the sweet- 
breads may be cooked, they should alwaj-s be soaked a given time 
in cold water, which should be changed two or three times ; cook 
in boiling water half an hour longer, and then put into cold water 
to cool. If that does not make them firm, they imav be dried in a 
towel and pressed between two pans or boards, with a pressing 
iron, or other weight on top. 

FISH. 

When fresh, the eyes of all fish are full and bright, the gills a 
fine, clear red, the body stiff, and the smell not unpleasant. The 
flavor and excellence of both salmon and mackerel depend entirely 
on their freshness ; and no fish is good if in the least stale. 

Lobsters, when freshly caught, have some muscular action in 
their claws which may be excited by pressing the eyes. The 
heaviest lobsters are the best. The male is thought to have the 
highest flavor ; it is distinguished from the female by the feelers 
under the throat, which are hard, long and sharp, while in the fe- 
male the}" are soft and rudimentary. Females are preferred for 
sauces on account of the coral, and they are best in June and 
July. Delicate lobsters weigh from four pounds and upward. 

If crabs are fresh, the eyes are bright, the joints of the legs 
stiff, and thej- have an agreeable odor. The heaviest are the best, 
the light ones being watery. 

Scallops are not much used ; the shell closes tight when fresh, 



618 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

as is the case with hard-shell clams. Soft-shell clams are good 
only in cold weather, and should be fresh. Oysters, when alive 
and healthy, close tight upon the knife. They are good from Sep- 
tember to the first of Ma}\ 

The best varieties of fresh-water fish differ with the locality. In 
the South are the shad, the sheep's-head, the golden-mullet and 
the Spanish mackerel ; in the North, brook-trout, and the many 
choice varieties that people the inland lakes. Lake Superior trout 
and whitefish, coming from cold waters, keep the best of all fresh- 
water fish. The whitefish is more delicate, has fewer bones, and 
greatly resembles shad ; it is a favorite salted fish, and will be 
found in all markets. Wall-eyed pike, bass and pickerel are 
also excellent eating, and are shipped in ice, reaching market as 
fresh as when caught, and are sold at moderate prices. Califor- 
nia salmon is shipped in the same way, and is sold in all cities, 
with fresh cod and choice varieties from the Atlantic coast ; but 
the long distance which they must be transported, makes prices 
high. The catfish is a Mississippi-river fish, and is cooked in va- 
rious ways. 

All fish which have been packed in ice should be cooked imme- 
diately after removal, as they soon grow soft and tasteless. Stale 
fish should never be cooked for the table. Fresh fish should be 
scaled and cleaned on a table, or clean board, and not in a pan of 
water. AS little water should be used as is compatible with per- 
fect cleanliness. When not cooked immediately, place near ice 
until wanted. If frozen when brought from market, thaw in ice- 
cold water. 

Eels must be dressed as soon as possible, or they lose their 
sweetness; cut off the head, skin them, cut them open, and scrape 
them free from every string. They are good except in the hottest 
summer months, the fat ones being best. A fine codfish is thick 
at the back of the neck, and is best in cold weather. The best 
salt mackerel for general use is the "English mess." Poor mack- 
erel are always dry. Choose herring ( bloaters are nice ) which are 
thick on the belly, and fat. The salt California salmon are excel- 
lent, those of a dark, rich yellow being best. Freshen with scale 



ALL AROUND THE HOUSE. 619 

side up. Sturgeon should be white, the veins blue, the grain even, 
and the skin tender. Much sturgeon is put up and sold for smoked 
halibut. The skin of halibut should be white ; in sturgeon it is 
dark. Smoked salmon should be firm and dry. Smoked white- 
fish and trout are verj T nice. Select good, firm, whole fish. 

GAME AND POULTRY. 

To preserve game and poultry in summer-time, draw them as 
soon as possible after killing, wash carefully, and plunge them 
into a kettle of boiling water, drawing them up and down by the 
legs, so that the water may pass freely through them ; drain, wipe 
dry, and hang in a cool place ; when perfectly cold, rub the in- 
sides and necks with pepper ; prepared in this way, they will keep 
two days in warm weather ; wash thoroughly when ready to use 
them. Or, wash well in soda water, rinse in clear water, place 
charcoal inside, cover with a cloth, and hang in a dark, cool place. 
The most delicate birds can be preserved in this way for a few 
days. 

If game or poultry is at all strong, let it stand for several hours 
in water with either soda or charcoal ; the latter will sweeten them 
when they are apparently spoiled. English and French cooks 
never wash poultry or game in dressing. With skill in dressing, 
it is not necessary on the score of cleanliness, and much washing 
tends to impair the fine flavor, especially of game. The female 
is the choicer fowl. 

Sportsmen, wishing to keep game in very hot weather, or to ship 
long distances, should draw the bird as soon as killed, force down 
the throat two or three whole peppers of the small variety, tying 
a string around the throat above them, sprinkle a little powdered 
charcoal inside, and fill the cavity of the body with very dry 
grass ; green or wet grass heats and hastens decay. If birds are 
to be shipped without drawing, force a piece of charcoal into the 
vent, and tie a string closely around the neck to exclude all air, 
and hang up by a loop in the string. Prepared in this waj' game 
will bear shipment for a long distance. 

Chickens. — When fresh, they are known by full, bright eyes, 
pliable feet, and soft, moist skin. Young fowls have a tender 



G20 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

skin, smooth legs and comb. In old fowls, the legs are rough and 
hard. The breastbone of a young fowl is soft, and may be easily 
bent with the fingers ; the feet and neck are large in proportion to 
the body. The best fowls are fat, plump, with skin nearly white, 
and the grain of the flesh is fine. Old fowls have long, thin necks 
and feet, and the flesh on the legs and back has a purplish shade. 
Fowls are alwa} T s in season. 

Ducks. — Young ducks feel tender under the wings, and the 
web of the foot is transparent ; those with thick, firm breasts are 
best. Tame ducks have j'ellow legs ; wild ducks reddish ones. 

Wild Ducks. — If fishy and the flavor is disliked, scald a few 
minutes in salt and water before roasting, or parboil with an onion 
inside. If the flavor is very strong, the duck may be skinned, as 
the oil in the skin is the objectionable part. After skinning, 
spread with butter, dredge thickly with flour, and bake in a very 
quick oven. 

Geese. — In young geese, the bills and feet are yellow and sup- 
ple ; the skin may be easity broken, the breast is plump, and the 
fat, white ; an old goose has red and hairy legs, and is unfit for 
the table. 

Pheasants and Quails. — Yellow legs and dark bills are signs 
of a young bird. The}' are in season in autumn. Pigeons should 
be fresh, fat and tender, and the feet pliant and smooth. In fresh 
prairie chickens, the eyes are full and round, not sunken ; and, if 
young, the breastbone is soft, and yields to pressure. The lat- 
ter test applies to all fowls and game birds. Plover, woodcock, 
snipe, etc. , may be chosen by the same rules. 

Turkeys. — The3 r are in season in the fall and winter, but dete- 
riorate in the spring. Old turkeys have long hairs, and the flesh 
is purplish when it shows under the skin on legs and back ; when 
good they are white and plump, with full breast and smooth, black 
legs ; and the male has soft, loose spurs. The eyes are bright and 
full, and the feet supple. Absence of these signs denotes age and 
staleness. Hen turkeys are inferior in flavor, but are smaller, 
fatter and plumper. Full-grown turkeys are best for boning or 
boiling, as the flesh does not tear in dressing. 



ALL AROUND THE HOUSE. 621 

In dressing poultry for market, secure plump, well-fatted fowls. 
Do not feed for at least twenty-four hours before killing. Open 
the veins of the neck and bleed freely ; this is the best mode of 
killing. Scald enough to make the feathers come off easily, and 
pick carefully so as not to break the skin or bruise the fowl, as it 
injures the sale. Draw the entrails, but leave the head and feet 
on. After they are dressed, dip once in boiling hot water for ten 
seconds, and in ice-cold water for the same length of time ; hang 
in a cool place where they will dry before packing. Ducks should 
be treated in the same manner. Pack in barrels, or boxes, in 
nice, clean rye, or oat straw. Boxes holding from 100 to 200 
lbs. are the most desirable packages. Pack with breasts down, 
using straw between each layer. Pack solid so they will not bruise 
on the way. Poultry prepared in this way will sell readily, while 
poorly dressed, sweaty (caused by being packed while warm ) and 
bruised lots will not realize half the price. 

Large, fat, dry- picked turkeys and chickens sell well. They 
should be picked immediately after killing, and hung up until cold 
before packing. Remember, it is the appearance of goods that 
sells them. Large, plump fowls, of all kinds, bring the highest 
prices. Ship to reach the market by Wednesday or Thursday of 
each week. If shipped for the holidays, they should arrive at 
least three days before Thanksgiving, Christmas or New Years. 
Geese sell best at Christmas. 

GROCERIES. 

American isinglass, arrowroot, oatmeal, pearl-barley, tapioca, 
sago, macaroni, and vermicelli are articles which may profitably 
be bought in quantities, unless the family is very small. Keep in 
close jars, boxes, or covered receptacle that will secure them from 
worms, flies, etc. 

Buckwheat flour, rice, and hominy should be purchased in small 
quantities and kept in closely-covered j are. Look carefully through 
all these articles, as they are sometimes infested with insects. A 
stringy, web-like substance is occasionally found in oatmeal, corn 
meal, crackers, etc. It is an indication of worms, and shows that 
they are old and unfit for use. Especially is this the case with 



G22 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

corn meal. It is best therefore to buy it in small quantities. In 
the South the white meal is preferred, while in the North the yel- 
low is the favorite. Corn is an excellent diet in winter, as it pro- 
duces more heat than wheat flour. 

Flour should be purchased in quantities suited to the size of the 
family, as it is not best to have too large a stock on hand lest it 
become musty or injured in some way. Flour made from new 
wheat is not so good for bread as that made from wheat at least 
five or six months old. As flour will readily absorb dampness and 
odors, it should be kept closely covered in a dry, cool, airy room, 
where no other eatables are stored. 

Cheese. — That which feels soft under pressure is richer and 
better than hard cheese. Keep covered in a cool, dr} r place. 

Eggs. — The exact age may be approximated by making a solu- 
tion of common salt and water, about two ounces to the pint. Put 
in the egg, and if it be only a day or so old it will sink to the 
bottom ; if three days old it will float in the liquid ; if more than 
five it will come to the surface, and will rise above in proportion 
to its increased age. 

Lard. — Many housekeepers will not use lard at all, but, whex-e 
Dutter cannot be afforded for pastry, the next best thing is leaf 
lard rendered at home. 

Macaroni. — If good, it will not break in cooking, and swells to 
four times its bulk in a dry state. The best macaroni is of a yel- 
lowish color. 

Kaisins. — The best come in small boxes. They should be 
bought as the}' are wanted, as they do not keep well. 

Rice. — Carolina rice is the best. It cooks quicker, and is nicer 
than India rice. 

Sago. — The best sago is the small, white variety, called pearl. 

Salt. — Keep it in a very dry place, closely covered. The best 
table salt comes in boxes. In wet weather the salt in the salt- 
stands becomes damp unless a little cornstarch is mixed with it. 

Hard Soap. — It is cheaper if bought in large quantities, and 
should be laid up to harden ; it wastes more if soft, as it usually 
is when first bought. 

Spices. — These should be bought whole, and ground fine in a 



ALL AROUND THE HOUSE. 623 

hand-mill. This is some trouble, but adulteration and dirt is pre- 
vented. 

Starch. — It comes cheaper if bought in large quantities, and 
the best starch is the most economical. 

Sugar. — Keep a variety of sugars on hand for different pur- 
poses, and the results will be much more satisfactory as well as 
economical. For fruit cake, gingerbread, most Indian puddings 
and mince pie, use brown sugar. Use powdered sugar for most 
kinds of nice cake, icing, floating island, whips, meringues and 
blancmange. For jelly, sweetmeats, and raspberry vinegar, use 
granulated sugar. 

Tea and Coffee. — They are cheaper if bought in considerable 
quantities, but they must be kept in tightly-covered glass or tin 
cans, or they will lose their fine flavor. Some brown and grind 
coffee just before it is made. The best flavor is thus secured, and 
the chances for adulteration are reduced to the minimum. 

Vinegar. — Apple juice, as a basis, and sweetened with maple 
syrup, or sugar, is the best. Make the juice quite sweet, put it in 
a cask and set in a warm, aiiy place ; cover with a cloth and tie 
tightly to exclude flies. Shake the cask occasionally, as the vine- 
gar will make more readily. In a few weeks it will be ready for 
use if the conditions have been right. Vinegar will not make if 
set in the cellar while fermenting ; though it may be kept there 
when ready for use. If the vinegar is very strong it will destroy 
pickles, and it should be weakened with water ; one pint of water 
to a gallon of vinegar is sufficient. 

VEGETABLES AND FRUIT. 

Fresh vegetables are crisp ; wilted vegetables can be partially 
restored if they are sprinkled with cold water and laid in a cool 
place. Fruit should be fresh and firm, whether it belongs to the 
short-lived varieties or has a more enduring nature. It should be 
kept in a dry, cool place. 

Apples. — For spring and winter use they can be barreled, as 
for market, and buried in a deep trench, wide enough to hold a 
barrel when on its side, and long enough to hold several barrels. 
Cover first with straw and then with earth. Apples buried in this 



624 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

way are better flavored than those stored in cellars, and usually are 
found in good condition. 

Berries. — Buy only when fresh; they should look dry and 
bright, otherwise they are stale and unprofitable. Avoid berries 
that look damp and crushed, as fermentation has probably taken 
place. Such berries are good only for making vinegar. 

Grapes. — Place them in large, flat boxes, or tins, in a cool, dry 
storeroom. Be careful to pick off the imperfect grapes from day 
to day. 

Pears. — They should be gathered before fully ripe and left to 
ripen in a cool storeroom. 

Cabbages. — They should always be pulled up by the roots, the 
dirt shaken off, a few loose leaves removed, and then hung by a 
strong cord on nails driven into the joists in the vegetable cellar. 
Only hard, perfect heads should be put away for winter use. Fre- 
quently farmers dig a ditch, line it with straw, and place the cab- 
bages in it heads down, roots left on, and cover first with straw 
and then earth. 

Cauliflowers. — These are best when large, solid and creamy. 
When stale, the leaves ai*e wilted and show dark spots. 

Celery. — The stalks should be white, solid and clean. Celery 
may be had in August, but it is better and sweeter after frost. 
Bury in dry sand in the cellar. 

Corn. — Genuine sweet corn has large kernels, grown compactly 
together. The small-kerneled, loosely-grown corn found in many 
markets, is not sweet corn at all, but a kind of tasteless white 
corn. When ripe, the kernels of sweet corn are much wrinkled 
and seamed. 

Eggplant. — It should be firm but not ripe. The large, purple, 
oval-shaped variety is best. 

Herbs. — Gather on a dry day, tie in bundles and label them. 
The medicinal ones should be wrapped in paper and the air ex- 
cluded from them. Every housewife should have an abundance 
of herbs both for medicinal purposes and to flavor soups, dressing 
for fowls, etc. 

Mushrooms. — They are dangerous things for inexperienced per- 
sons to buy. 






ALL AROUND THE HOUSE. 625 

Onions. — Keep in boxes away from all other vegetables and 
fruits. 

Parsnips. — They are much better if left in the ground until 
spring. If the climate is very cold they may be buried in pits in 
the garden. 

Peas. — They are fresh when the pods feel cool and dry ; if they 
are rusty or spotted they are too old to be good. Set them fifteen 
minutes in cold water before podding. 

Potatoes. — Select those of medium size, and smooth, with 
small eyes. Cut off a piece of the large end ; if spotted, they are 
unsound. In the spring, when potatoes are beginning to sprout, 
put them, a basket at a time, in a tub; pour boiling water over them ; 
in a moment or two, take out, spread them to dry, and then return 
them to the cellar. If sprouts have started, rub them off. They 
should be dug in dry weather and stored in a cool, dry cellar. Af tei 
digging potatoes, put them at once in baskets, and take them to a 
shady place to await storage or marketing. Leaving potatoes ly- 
ing in the sun after digging, injures them for cooking. 

Pumpkins. — Keep in a cool place. A granary is often better 
than a cellar, except in the coldest weather. 

Squashes require a cool, dry place. 

Tomatoes. — The medium-sized, smooth ones are best. 

Turnips. — They are not very nutritious, being ninety per cent, 
water, but are palatable and wholesome. Rutabagas, or Swedish 
turnips, should be laid on the bottom of the cellar. Leave flat 
turnips in the ground until frosty weather, as they do not keep well 
in cellars. 

THE STOREROOM. 

Every house should contain a cool, airy and dry storeroom foi 
articles which it would not be desirable or convenient to keep in 
the cellar. A northeastern corner room is preferable to any 
other location, and rows of shelves should be built on two sides. 

If the storeroom is near the kitchen, the "kitchen cabinet" may 
be kept there. This is a useful piece of furniture, containing a 
moulding board, rolling pin, and all the accessories for baking, in 



626 



HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 



a small space. Here ma} r be kept the bread and cake boxes or 
jars, barrels of sugar and flour, etc. , sacks of meal and green cof- 
fee, canisters or caddies of tea, packages of .ne grains, boxes of 
spices, raisins, dried fruits and crackers, pots and jars of preserves, 
and bottles of flavoring powders or extracts. All jars and boxes 
containing supplies should be labeled, so that anyone can find the 
article desired. 

Roasted, ground, or powdered coffee should be purchased in 
small quantities and kept in glass jars with closely fitting covers. 

Lemons will keep fresh for weeks if placed in a bag of cornmeal. 
Eggs keep nicely if turned every two days. 

An adjustable shelf is a great convenience in the storeroom, and 
a pair of scissors, a ball of twine, a few nails, a hammer, some 
writing paper with pen and ink, a pencil or two and a table, will 
be found useful. Attach a pencil to a small blank book, label 
it "want-book," hang it by the window, and when anything is 
needed write it down, and refer to it before going to market. 

Keep the storeroom sweet and clean. 

VARIOUS CONVENIENCES. 

Besides the usual kitchen furnishings there are numerous labor- 
saving utensils which, though not absolutely essential, are desira- 
ble. A few of these will be given with illustrations. 

Ash Barrel. — Many a destructive 
fire originates in carelessness in the 
handling of ashes. They are thrown 
out in improper places or placed in 
wooden receptacles, and a fire breaks 
out from some "unknown cause." A 
proper ash barrel is made of metal, 
should be so heavy as not to be easily 
bruised, and should be provided with 
handles. The one represented in the 
cut, when used for coal ashes, is pro- 
vided with a sieve which holds and saves all the unconsumed coal, 
while it allows the ashes to pass through. 







ALL AROUND THE HOUSE. 



627 





Bain-Marie. — This is a very useful open 

vessel which is kept filled with hot (not' 

boiling) water on the back of the stove or 

range, or in some warm place. In this sev- 
eral saucepans, or large tin cups with covers 

and handles, are fitted to hold the cooked dishes which are to be 

kept hot until the dinner is served. It is also convenient for 

sauces, and vegetables used for garnishing meats, which cannot 

be prepared at the last minute. 
Bread Toaster. — 

This toaster can be used 

over a gas, gasoline or 

coal stove. The food 

is protected from the 

flame by gauze, so that no taste or smell of flame will be upon it. 

It can be used for broiling meat. 

Cupboards. —For china, glass and silver, a corner cupboard 

with glass doors is a pretty and useful piece of furniture, and 

takes little available room. 
Dish Warmer. — This is 

made of wire, with feet to 

set on a stove. Nothing 

spoils a meal so effectually 

as cold plates, but when 

placed in the oven they 

are likely to become too 

hot, and fine wares are ruined by over-heating. With this there 

is no danger of over-heating, or injury. It may be used as a dish 

drainer, and is equal to the best made specially for the purpose. 

Dutch Oven. — The cut represents the 
old-fashioned Dutch oven, an iron kettle 
with a heavy tight-fitting iron lid. This 
is often used for outdoor cooking. The 
oven is lowered into the ground level with 
the top, and the lid covered with live 
coals. There is no oven which bakes 
pork and beans and imparts the same 
delicious flavor. 





628 



HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 





Egg Beater and Cream "Whip. — Used for eggs 
in omelets, and eggs and sugar in icings, for 
cream in charlottes, syllabubs, etc. The glass 
holds one quart, and is marked for measuring. 

Egg Steam 
Po a che r. — Eggs 
cooked by steam are 
more delicate than 
when immersed in 
hot water. Unless 
a cook has a utensil made expressly for this purpose her efforts 
will fall short of perfection. 

Pasteur Germ-Proof Filter. — "Water, which is 
not absolutely pure, should never be used unless 
filtered. The "Pasteur" filter may be attached to 
any water pipe and removed at pleasure. 

Fish-Kettle. — The fish is placed on the perfor- 
ated tin sheet which is put into the kettle of water ; 
when done remove the sheet with 
the fish unbroken. It may be 
placed, for a moment, over an 
empty iron kettle on the stove and 
allowed to drain and steam. Slip 
carefully on a napkin and place on 
the hot platter for serving. 

Forms of Glass or Tin. — These are con- 
venient and attractive to use for flowers in 
decorating the table. Choose a fanciful form 
and fill with water or wet sand. The flowers 
should conceal the form entirely. It is a pretty courtesy to use 
small forms, in the initial letters of the guests, at their respective 
places at the table. 






ALL AROUND THE HOUSE. 



G29 




TO WORK 
AND CLEAN 
IT HAS 100 USES 



Fruit Press and 
Strainer. —This is an ar- 
ticle which, ,iio bus}' house- 
keeper shotUd do without. 
For mashing, pressing or 
straining berries, fruits or 





vegetables it is invaluable. 

Griddle op Artificial 
Stone. — This is a new article 
for the kitchen, is light and 
durable, and does away with 
the grease and smoke in baking pancakes. Soapstone griddles are 
often used, but this is cheaper and equally good. 

Qutnn's Patent Dish 
and Dishcloth Hand- 
lers. — These will prove a 
blessing to many house- 
keepers. The " Handlers" are simple in construction, and one 
may soon become expert in their use. 

Hassocks. — "Worn-out hassocks can be prettily covered, and 
made useful for footstools, with cuttings from carpets. Cut them 
into squares, bind them with the common braid used for the bot- 
tom of ladies' dresses, and sew the pieces together ; a long piece, 
b'ound top and bottom, will go round the stool to which the top is 
sewn, and a piece of strong, glazed lining will serve for the under 
part. If a round shape is preferred, the pieces 
of carpet must be cut into triangles. 

Gas Heater. — This slips over the gas burner, 
and furnishes a secure stand on which to set a 
cup, or teapot, when it will heat in a few mo- 
ments. It is invaluable in a sick room, or nurs- 
ery, in a house where gas is used. There are 
other styles also in use. The Vim Gas-Burner 
stove is guaranteed to boil a quart of water in 
three minutes. There is a contrivance for heating over a kerosene 




630 



HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 



lamp which is very useful. It cau be attached to the lamp chim- 
ney without breaking the glass or smoking the chimney. 

Perfume Lamp. — To perfume apartments delicately ; to re- 
move the odor of tobacco ; to freshen the atmosphere of the sick • 
room ; and to disinfect generally, this little article will be found 
to be worth many times its cost. 

To Make a Mat. — This is good work for children. Take a 
ball of twine and a large needle, cut pieces of woolen cloth, mus- 
lin or silk, into inch squares, and thread these on the twine until 
three yards are covered. Then cut the twine and fasten it well to 
prevent its slipping, and roll it round and round, taking long 
stitches through and through to keep it steady and flat. When 
quite firm, take a large pair of scissors, and, laying the mat flat, 
cut the rough edges until the mat is pared to nearly half its for- 
mer thickness. It should look like a child's worsted ball, is the 
same on both sides, and if well done is warm and pretty. These 
mats were made during the war by Southern ladies. To make the 
mat square instead of round, cut the twine into the lengths re- 
quired, and after stringing on the pieces of cloth, lay them side by 
side and sew them firmly together. Make a border of one color. 

Child's Pen. — It is not only trouble- 
some but dangerous for small children, 
just able to toddle about and get into 
mischief, to be free to go where they 
J please. The mother, if she has the care- 
of the house, cannot safely leave the 
child for a moment. This pen is a per- 
fect protection for the child. It is too high to be climbed over, 
it moves easily as the child walks about on the floor, and the 
mother is comparativel}" free to attend to other work. With a 
warm flannel blanket on the floor, and playthings, the child will 
amuse itself here a long time. A cheaper substitute may be made 
of a light diy-goods box without bottom, with casters attached. 
A box with blankets in the bottom is an excellent place to put a 
child, when the mother is necessarily absent for a short time. It 
is safe from harm, even if it cries. 




ALL AROUND THE HOUSE. 



631 



Perfection Cake Tin. —The cut shows the method of remov- 
ing the tin from the 
cake. Place the tin 
on a tumbler or bowl 
and the rim will drop 
to the table, leaving 
the cake whole, and 
supported by the 

g bottom of the tin. 
The tins come in ten 

f different sizes and 
The shallow 




5"~ styles. 



ones are used for pies and layer cakes. 




Potato Slicer. — A slicer is necessary to 
cut Saratoga potatoes. The one represented 
has an adjustable knife regulated by the screws 
"1$ at the sides, so that a potato is cut into thicker 
or thinner slices by simply passing it over. This slicer is excel- 
lent for cabbage, or for onions to serve with cucumbers; cabbage 
must not be cut too thin, as it is less crisp. 



■i i i ^^T PlCKLE FoRK - 

— This is intended 
for removing pickles and olives from deep jars or large bottles. 
The barbed tines make sure of holding a pickle every time. 




Rack for Blower. — One of the 
most difficult things to dispose of, 
after it has served its purpose in 
kindling a fire, is the blower, because 
it is so hot. The rack solves this 
difficulty, and there is a place to put 
the blower after its work is done. 



632 



HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 




Rack for Spice. — The cut represents a neat rack in which is 

set small cans containing spices. 
The handle is a convenience, and 
the rack may be kept close at hand 
while cakes are made, and when 
the work is done set away on a shelf 
or in a cupboard until needed again. 

Rack for Toast. — Toast, to be pal- 
atable or healthful, must be dry and 
crisp, and to keep it in this condition, 
after toasting, the slices must be kept 
apart, to prevent their gathering moist- 
ure and becoming tough. The English, 
who are very fond of dry toast, place it 
.upon the table in a toast rack, which 
preserves its quality and crispness. Silver racks are costly, and 
out of the reach of the masses, but the rack here represented is 
made of white wire, and is as neat and clean as silver, and very 

cheap. In a large fam- 
ily two will be required, 
as the delicious quality 
of the toast prepared in 
this way creates a lively 
demand for it. 

Roasting Pan. — 
Every kitchen should 
be supplied with a self- 
basting pan, as the fla- 
vor and juiciness of 
meats thus cooked is much better preserved than in an open pan. 

Strainer. — This 
strainer has an ex- 
tension wire frame 
which is made to 
rest on the top of a 





ALL AROUND THE HOUSE. 



633 




pan, jar or pail. It is made of several degrees of fineness for 
various purposes. 

Substitute for Casters. — Casters on heavy chairs, tables, 
bedsteads, etc. , are alwaj's getting out of order, and are very de- 
structive to carpets. A substitute, which is an improvement, is a 
polished half-globe of steel, with a screw projecting from flat side. 
This screw is turned into the bottom of the chair-leg, and the 
rounded and polished surface rests on the floor or carpet, and the 
chair is moved with ease and with little friction to the carpets. 

Sponge Basket. — A sponge, espe- 
cially when damp, is a nuisance. If 
Lung up it moistens the wall, and if laid 
down it is in everybody's way and 
gathers dirt. The si mple, neat and cheap 
wire basket which hangs on the wall is a 
good receptacle for it, or a three-cornered 
piece of oil-cloth, sustained by a string fas- 
tened at each corner, is good for the same purpose. 

Tree Pruner. — This is a convenience for 
the tidy farmer and fruit-grower. Simple in 
construction it is less liable to get out of or- 
der than more elaborate ones. Full directions 
come with the implement. 

Trouser Stretcher. — Where there are 
several men and boys in a family, a trouser 
stretcher will be found a great convenience, 
and saver of money also, as it removes wrink- 
les and prevents bagging at the knees, thus 
restoring the length and shape of the trousers. 
Vegetable Tongs. — 
This is a convenient kitch- 
en implement for turning 
meats or taking vegetables 
out of the oven or the ket- 
tle. It is neat, durable, 
and cheap. 





BETWEEN TIMES. 

THOUGH no intelligent housekeeper finds time to waste, yet 
there are ways by which she may increase her revenue and her " 
enjoyment without interfering with strictly household duties. And 
the effort to keep informed through books and papers as to the 
best methods, together with the variety of work, will benefit her in 
many ways. 

BEE KEEPING. 

Let no one engage in bee keeping with the idea that because 
bees gather honey from fields, woods, and the neighbors' gardens, 
and work while others play, they will give something for nothing, 
and are therefore a profitable investment. 

Bees are industrious, intelligent, and of a foraging habit, but 
their efforts must be directed by common sense, a steady hand, 
and an industry as untiring as their own. There is no doubt that 
there is a profit in keeping bees, if well handled, but that it is a 
losing business, if left to take care of itself, is a fact that cannot 
be too often reiterated. 

In purchasing a colony of bees the buyer should know some- 
thing of their habits as well as what constitutes a good colony. 
For instance, one colony sells for five dollars while another sells 
for ten. Both are equally well hived, are of the same age and 
variety, and both have a queen. On opening the hive of the ten- 
dollar colony, the bees pour out until the air seems filled with 
them, but on opening the five-dollar colony only a few bees come 
out, and a few crawl over the frames. They are weak, and how- 
ever good a chance is given, it would take all summer for them to 
grow strong, and store honey enough for their own keeping. The 
first swarm are in a working condition, and would send out an- 
other strong swarm early, and store up superfluous honey. It 
would be economy to purchase them ; but the weak swarm should 
be combined with another of the same sort. 



BETWEEN TIMES. 633 

A good hive is one of the first requisites for successful bee keep- 
ing. The Simplicity Hive, frame, allows ten frames to the hive. 
The dimensions of the frame give the dimensions of the hive. A 
standard frame should be, according to Mr. Huntley in the Minne- 
sota Farmer's Annual, ' ' seventeen and three-eighths inches by 
nine and one-eighth inches, outside measurement. Slats forming 
this frame are three-eighths of an inch thick, from lumber seven- 
eighths of an inch in thickness. Both ends of the top bar should 
extend three-fourths of an inch beyond the ends of the frame. 
When hanging in the hive there should be a space of three-eighths 
of an inch between the ends of the frames and the walls of the 
hive, and the same space from the lower edges of the frames to 
the bottom of the hive. 

' 'Then nineteen and seven-eighths inches must be the length we 
must cut the lumber for the sides of the hives, and fifteen inches 
the length to cut the end pieces. These pieces must be nine and 
five-eighths inches high. The upper inside edges of the end pieces 
should be rabbeted out one-half of an inch wide, and three-eighths 
of an inch deep, to form projections for holding the frames ; the 
ends of the frames will have a bearing of three-eighths of an 
inch, and there will be a space of three-eighths of an inch at both 
ends, between the frames and the hive, to allow perfect freedom 
for the removal of the combs. At the bottom of the front end of 
the hive, take out three-eighths of an inch, the whole length, to 
make an opening for the bees to pass in and out. This also gives 
ample ventilation. If made larger, mice will enter and destroy 
the combs." 

The bottom board of the hive should be loose, and fasten to 
the outside with buttons, or small wire hooks, and should project 
at least six inches to form an alighting board. To this board 
should be hinged a removable board, inclining to the ground, for 
bees, exhausted by long flight, falling in front of the hive, will 
crawl up this incline and be saved. 

Use wire nails, and see that all corners and ends fit smoothly. 
Rub all projections of frames with beef suet, to prevent the bees 
from waxing them down. Keep on hand one or two smooth divi- 



636 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

sion boards, so that a few frames can be used for the center, thus 
preventing the bees from getting to the sides of the hive, and 
making them condense their work in the center. Screw two-by- 
four scantling, in two pieces, across the bottom board, on which 
to rest the hive, and to raise it from the dampness. A flat cover 
is the best, and it should be cleated at the ends, that it may not 
warp, and be fastened to the hive by hooks. This must be well 
tallowed, or the bees will fasten it down. 

This makes the Simplicity Hive, and the honey is made on the 
frames to which are fastened wax foundations for comb, to be 
bought from any dealer. These are cut in a point, the broad side 
being nearly the length of the frame ; by turning the frame up- 
side down, and pressing the broad side on it with a putty knife, it 
will hang, point down, until the bees work at it, when they will 
make it fast. 

If one wishes bees to produce comb honey, an additional skny, 
called a super, must be added to the hive. This is the exact size 
of the hive, and fastens to it with hooks, having a catch for the 
hook on the cover corresponding to that on the hive. This super 
should be four and five-eighths inches high, and will hold six one- 
pound boxes one way and four the other. Take the common one- 
pound boxes, sold cheaply by the hundred, by any dealer in bee- 
keeping wares, and place them edge to edge, until there are six in 
a row, with open ends. Cover these with a square of glass to fit, 
and tie them closely about with twine, and so that a moment will 
loosen them. Place in the super, openings down, over the frames. 
Put on the cover, and leave the bees to fill them. If a thin divi- 
sion has been put between the frames and the super, having holes 
in it for the bees to pass to the boxes, they will not wax the out- 
side. Keep the hives on a stand, under a spreading tree, or in 
an open house with a tight roof, that they may not be exposed to 
heavy rains, and let the bees work. 

One needs a steady hand and courage in handling bees, and 
must wear a black bee-veil, which is simply a piece of tarletah, or 
mosquito netting, sewed into a funnel, with an elastic in the up- 
per end, to slip over the hat ; the lower end can be buttoned into 



BETWEEN TIMES. 637 

the dress. Wear gloves, and if a bee should sting do not scream, 
or brush it off. Use a smoker, blowing into the hive when about 
to handle the bees. This will render them easy to manage. Do 
not rush up to the front of the hive, but approach cautiously from 
the side or rear, and avoid jarring it. 

Use an empty hive for the frames as they are taken from the 
full one, lest the comb become crushed and broken ; and with a 
feather, brush off any bees that crawl over them. Use a regular 
honey extractor for taking honey from the comb, and if it is nice 
and white use it again. A honey knife may be used for uncap- 
ping the cells, and the centrifugal force will then take the honey 
out against the sides of the machine, where it will run down and 
come out at the tap. Use broken corncobs for the smoker. Have 
extra hives on hand. Keep only Italian bees, as they are good- 
tempered and hardy, are better workers and better to repel the bee 
moths and robbers than the black bee. Do not let a colony of bees 
swarm every time they have a new queen. Let them swarm, if 
they are strong, once, early in the season, and then cut out -the 
queen cells ; if the colony seems to have a good many drones, cut 
out the drone cells. 

There is but one queen to a colony, and she can be told by her 
long body and short wings. It is a good idea to clip her if she is 
not to be allowed to go with the swarm, as it is always the old 
queen which leaves the hive, while the young queen remains. Take 
her carefully by the left wing, do not catch her in the hand, as the 
scent remains on her and makes her uneasy, and do not frighten 
her. With a sharp pair of scissors, clip off nearly one-half of her 
right wing. She is the only perfect female in the swarm, and 
lays, if she is a good queen, from twent}--four thousand to forty 
thousand eggs a day. When the workers think it is time to 
swarm, they cut out some of the cells in which eggs have been 
laid, making them larger, and fill them with a different food, 
called, in bee-keeper's parlance, royal jelly. These cells then pro- 
duce, in about fifteen days, new queens. The first queen out goes 
immediately to the other queen cells and stings the occupants to 
death, herself reigning queen of the hive when the old queen 



638 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

leaves, as she does at once, with her subjects, or as she has done 
before the new queen came out. 

The drones are the male bees, and there are often four hundred 
to a colony ; their number should be diminished, for they eat the 
honey, and are only idlers. To do this, cut out the drone comb, 
which is indicated by cells, larger than those for the workers, yet 
not filled with roj'al jelly as for the queen. The comb for the 
queen is yellow, while that for the drones is white. The larger 
cells for the queens are detached from the other cells, and perpen- 
dicular to the comb ; those for the drones are similar to the work- 
ers, but larger, and horizontal to the comb. 

The workers for a strong colony number thirty or forty thousand, 
and their average life is from three to five weeks. They make all 
the comb, and produce all the honey. A queen lives for five or 
six years, but she is not very useful after the third year. Pru- 
dent bee keepers get rid of her then and introduce a new queen. 

When a hive swarms, be read}', and if they alight on the limb 
of a tree, as they often do, put the hive as near them as possible, 
and brush them gently down to the entrance. If a few can be 
started in, all will follow. To have the hive please them, it must 
be perfectly clean, with a few frames of foundation already hung. 
If the limb of the tree can be sawed off without jarring, it may 
be lowered carefully and placed in front of the hive, or on a board ; 
set the hive above it, and throw a dark cloth over all. If it is not 
desirable that the colony swarm a second time, be watchful, cut 
out all the queen cells, give surplus honey bread, and the old 
swarm will build up a strong colony. 

In the winter, bees should be kept in a cellar, where the tem- 
perature will not fall below 38°, nor rise above 40°. It should 
have no jar. and be well ventilated. Dampness in a cellar is apt 
to sour the honey, and the bees will die. Look at them often, to 
see that they are doing well. Bees may be wintered outdoors by 
having a bee house, and packing well with matting and sawdust 
between the hives and the sides of the house, and having screen- 
covered holes at the top for ventilation. Bees must have air, 
even in their winter sleep, or they will die. 

In early spring remove them from the cellar at night, that they 



BETWEEN TIMES. 639 

may be settled before it is light enough to fly ; cover them while 
it is cold weather. Be sure that they have enough to eat, and 
that they have a queen. Feed with a syrup of melted sugar and 
water ; put it in a shallow dish, and place on it a thin, basswood 
float in which are holes, or the bees will drown. Feed in the 
morning and at night, removing the food through the day, for 
fear of robber bees. If food is needed they will carry it all off to 
the comb. Bees require water, and it may be given them in the 
same way, with the float nearly filling the dish. 

A weak colony winters poorly. Two weak ones will make one 
strong one by cutting out the queen cells from one and removing 
the queen. Place this hive near the one having a queen, or, if it 
is well filled with comb, remove some of this to the other hive, 
and place the queenless hive over the other, removing the bottom 
of the one and the top of the other. They will at once join 
forces, and fill the hive where the queen is ; the empty hive may 
be placed over a strong colony, which will proceed to fill the comb. 
This may be used for the house, or to feed spring bees. 

Book bee keeping is not apt to be successful without practice, 
and one only learns by buying a good swarm of bees, studying 
their habits, getting hints from practical and successful bee keepers, 
and observing how they work. Do not expect to get rich the first 
year, but take pains, read, study, and do not be afraid to ask 
questions of those who know ; but remember that the man who is 
most ready to give advice is often the man who never owned a bee 
in his life. Get the "A, B, C, of Bee Keeping," which is the 
best work extant on the subject, and make the business a study. 

HOUSEHOLD PETS. 

Birds. — Hard-billed birds, as canaries, and other seed eaters, 
are easily kept. A clean cage, having the bottom freshly sanded 
every day, a dish of mixed seed, Sicily, canary, summer rape, 
hemp, and maw, a cup of fresh water, a bath, a piece of cuttle- 
fish bone fastened in the cage, with a little lettuce, sweet apple, 
celery top, or cabbage, daily, and sun and shade, as he prefers, 
will keep a bird happy and well. 

It is good for a bird to be hung in the open air if he will be 



640 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

safe, and is not in a di-aught. Keep the bird out of a draught if 
he is to be free from colds ; for colds and filth create nearly all the 
diseases that birds are heir to. The bird grows hoarse, loses his 
voice, has catarrh, and something as near roup as it is possible, 
and dies ; a little care at first would have saved him. 

Plenty of sweet apple, celery, and green food, will keep a bird 
from being egg-bound. If a bird is dumpish, and ruffles his 
feathers, refusing to eat, part his feathers just above the tail. 
There will appear a yellow blister where the oil bag should be. 
From some cause this has become clogged, and must be opened. 
Use a needle to let the accumulated matter out, and dress with 
sweet oil. If his feet get rough and crusty, soak in warm water, 
work up the scales with a penknife, and rub with sweet oil. Re- 
peat this process several times a day, until they are well. This 
trouble is usually caused by a dirty cage. The perches ought to 
be washed every day. 

If the bird picks his feathers, and seems uncomfortable On his 
perch at night, he is probably troubled with lice. Remove him 
from the cage to one that is thoroughly clean. Wash his cage in 
hot water, dry it, and give perches and all a thorough rubbing 
with kerosene. When it is dry, put the bird back into it, after 
sprinkling his head, under his wings, and through his feathers with 
insect powder. At night put a little piece of cotton batting in 
the top of his cage ; get up early and burn it. The batting, if 
put in" each night, and burned in the morning, will soon rid the 
bird of insects. Hang a little bag of sulphur in the cage. 

Do not give much hemp to singing birds except when they are 
moulting, as it is fattening. Give half a hard-boiled egg, in the 
shell, now and then. Do not give them sugar, or cake, but a lit- 
tle cracker, plain bread, or a piece of baked potato, is good for 
them. 

Mate the birds in February and March. Make a shallow nest 
of wire, and cotton or cotton flannel, quite flat on the bottom. 
The bird begins to set when she lays the first egg, and the eggs 
hatch accordingly. When the little ones are hatched, feed them 
on cracker, pounded fine, mixed with hard-boiled egg, and wet 
with new milk. If it gets sour it will kill the birds. Give the old 



BETWEEN TIMES. 641 

bird regular seed, mixed with hemp seed, and plenty of green 
food. Keep the cage as clean as possible, but do not remove the 
nest until the young birds show signs of going to roost. When 
they can feed themselves, scatter a little clean seed, rolled until it 
cracks, on the bottom of the cage, and begin with a very shallow 
dish to teach them to bathe. This the old bird will do if let alone. 
Remove the 3'oung birds when they are four weeks old, if they 
know how to care for themselves, and give the old bird a clean 
cage and nest, and let her raise another brood. A cage where a 
bird is setting ought never to receive a severe jar, nor be moved 
about. Neither should it be hung in a window. Strong lightning 
will kill little birds. Young birds often commence singing when 
they are but a few weeks old. Hang their cage in a room with a bird 
whom they are desired to imitate. They will soon catch his song. 

Good canary seed is of a bright color, plump, and easy to 
crack. Sicily canary is the best; Indian millet is also good. 

Soft>billed birds do not eat seed unless it is cracked for them, or 
is in the soft state. Make a food of roasted beef heart, ants' 
eggs, blue maw meal, dried currants, dried blueberries, powdered 
cracker, or toasted wheat bread, dried sweet potato, and a little 
pea meal. Pound the whole fine, and wet with melted beef suet. 
Make a variet}" by adding to the food, for a day, grated carrot, 
squeezed dry, a little boiled potato, a piece of sweet apple, or 
flies, meal worms, spiders, ants' eggs, etc. The little, fat, hair- 
worm, that gets into the oatmeal, when left open, is a delicacy 
for a soft-billed bird, and is good for him. Dampen a little oat- 
meal in a paper bag, catch several meal worms, and put them in 
with some scraps of old leather ; tie up the bag lightly, and hang 
it in the shed, or where it is warm. In a little while there will be 
as many worms as you want, and they will increase as fast as the 
bird can eat them. Give chickweed, celery, and fruits in their 
season. If the bird is loose in his bowels, give dry-boiled rice ; 
if costive, give sweet apple and Bird Bitters. 

For parrots, keep in the cage a dish of Sicily canary seed, and 
feed a mash of stale, toasted bread, .and boiled milk. Mix in 
pounded currants, spices, cayenne pepper, and meats of nuts oc- 
casionally. Boiled corn and fruit are good for them. Crackers, 



042 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

moistened in a little boiled milk, are relished. Never let the food 
sour. It causes diarrhoea, which is hard to cure. Mocking birds 
are fed as soft-billed birds. 

Cats. — These are kept in many families, and are made comfort- 
able, or uncomfortable, as the" famil}- is kind and thoughtful, or 
otherwise. When kittens, they may be taught to eat bread, vege- 
tables, oatmeal and milk, and other things that the family eat ; 
they may be taught to keep themselves clean, and to ask to go 
out. The cat should be regularly fed, and her diet should be 
abundant, but simple ; vegetables, boiled, and prepared with a 
simple grav}- , oatmeal and milk, oorn-meal gems in milk or with 
gravy, once in awhile a piece of cooked meat, and for her supper, 
a saucer of new milk. These will keep her healthy, and happy, 
if she is otherwise well treated. 

In a cold climate it is a great cruelty to compel a cat, that is 
allowed to stay in the house during the da} T , to stay out in the 
cold and storm at night. She would, if not allowed to sleep in 
the house, prize highly a box, with plenty of old bedding in it, 
placed against a warm chimney, in an outer chamber. This box 
may have folds of an old comforter, arranged to form a close 
cover; tack it high up in front and let it sag back until it is 
tucked under the bed at the back. The bed can be soft, and thick, 
with the opening of the box in front, and a piece of quilt hanging 
down over it. A kitten may easily be taught to put itself to bed 
here, and will keep up the habit. 

To scold cats, and drive them out with the broom, is to spoil 
them for everything. Such cats usually steal, are poor mousers, 
and become tramps. Cats appreciate a soft voice, a gentle touch, 
and real kindness, and will show great affection. When the cat- 
nip blooms, dry a big bunch for them for winter use, and keep on 
the plant-stand a pot in which a thrifty sod of grass has been 
planted. These two things will cure the cat of nearly all the fe- 
line ailments. Once in awhile comb her, and brush her, and she 
will have a handsomer coat. 

Dogs. — If properly trained they seldom need to be scolded or 
whipped. They are very sensitive to changes of voice, and love 
people who speak gently, and are kind to them. They well repay 
kindness. 



BETWEEN TIMES. 643 

Their food is like that of cats, but the larger breeds require 
more meat. To avoid a rank odor, provide clean food in abund- 
ance, and do not give them tainted meats. Wash often with warm 
water in which is a little carbolic soap or ammonia. For vermin, 
examine the dog along the back, and at the roots of the tail, and 
wash with warm water and a flea soap, found at drug stores. Dry 
him, comb and brush him, and, parting the hair along the back, 
blow in Persian insect powder. If the weather is cold, dry him 
close by the stove, or he will suffer much, and take a heavy cold. 
If he has a skin disease, or a distemper, wash him well, and get a 
veterinary surgeon to prescribe for him, as these things are infectious. 

Have a kennel for the dog, with a good bed, and keep him clean, 
warm, and dry, and, as far as possible, out of the company of ill- 
conditioned curs that roam the streets. Make the cat and dog a 
part of the family, and, as they are social beings, talk to them ; 
they will soon understand that their own good behavior will cause 
them to be treated well, and made much of, and causes of com- 
plaints for their misbehavior will be few. 

Unless one will take care of pets and make them happy, it is 
better not to keep them at all. 

POULTRY RAISING. 

Anyone going into the poultry business should begin on a small 
scale, stud}', experiment, and work. If one is already in the 
business, with little knowledge and a miscellaneous stock, she 
should at once proceed to "clear up " the flock. It is money out 
of pocket to winter a lot of old fowls, past their prime and use- 
fulness. 

Spring and earl}' summer is an excellent time to straighten the 
poultry yard. Get a basin of corn and call all the fowls about the 
place for review. Select an energetic, fine looking cock for each 
ten hens, if the flock is fit to breed from, and, after they have 
gone to roost, catch these and shut them up. All other males 
should be confined in fattening pens, for sale or table use. Select 
from among the hens the old, the broody, the cross, and the poor 
layers, as far as they are known, and confine them in the fatten- 
ing pens. Fowls bring a good price in spring and summer. Di- 



644 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

vide the flock, allowing not more than ten hens to a flock, and 
give them a good, clean house, and as large an inclosed run as 
possible. 

Keep geese by themselves, where they can have access to a 
pond of water. If their house can be built on or near a small 
lake, or even a river, it will be the better for them. An old goose 
is better than a } r oung one, therefore get rid of the 3 r ounger mem- 
bers of the flock. 

An old turkey is a better mother also, and, if she has been 
properly looked after, less inclined to range than a young one, 
which is often shy and inclined to hide with her brood. Turkeys 
should be kept separate from the hens, and will do better if they 
can roam the fields. 

Ducks should be kept where they can get to water, but need 
close watching, or they will lay in the mud. Thej 7 must be housed 
early at night, and the layers kept in until the egg has been se- 
cured. They are prolific layers. Do not keep many over winter. 

Pea fowls are too often left out in planning the poultry yard. 
Alwa} r s have one pair, and let them run at large. They pay for 
their keeping with their eggs, which are excellent, and their warn- 
ing cries tell when danger is near to the coops of other fowls. 

When the flock is in close quarters it can be easily watched. If 
a hen is thrifty, lays good-sized eggs, and an abundance of them, 
is not inclined to set, and has good points as a table fowl, keep 
her, no matter if she never heard of "improved breeds." She 
will be profitable, and will stamp her good qualities on her chil- 
dren. Heredity has as much to do in the poultry yard as it has 
in the grain bin. Like will produce like. Therefore if you have 
a male bird, beautiful in plumage, fine in carriage, yet the child 
of a hen that was a poor layer, a p»or mother, and broody, kill 
him and eat him, for in two years he would spoil the flock. Close 
watching will soon show the non-layers. Take them out, put them 
in the fattening pen, and buy your eggs, for setting, of a reliable 
dealer, who Will warrant the qualities you desire. 

The Plymouth Rocks, Langshans, Houdans, Wyandottes, and 
Andalusians are good breeds. The Minocras, of the Spanish va- 
riety, are hardy, and excellent layers. The Leghorns are good 



BETWEEN TIMES. 645 

layers, but not quite heavy enough for the table. The Brahmas 
and Cochins are excellent for the table, and lay large eggs, but 
not as many as the Plymouth Rocks. The Brahmas are excellent 
for breeding purposes, but the Cochins are clums}-. A mixture of 
Brahma and Leghorn, or Cochin and Pl} r mouth Rock, gives a good 
all-around fowl. Full-blooded Plymouth Rocks and Langshans 
are excellent all-round fowls. 

Ordinary stock may be improved by buying males of either of 
these breeds, from a reliable dealer, and allowing none but the 
best hens to lay the eggs for setting. Do not use the eggs until 
after the fowls have been mated ten clays ; take the broody hens 
for setters, and keep the others as egg-producers. If an incubator 
is preferred, endeavor to get the best one possible, but do not 
waste mone}^ on a great many boiled eggs. To set a hen, prepare 
the nest apart from other hens, and make it of good straw on a 
shovelful of soft earth ; sprinkle thoroughly with Persian insect 
powder, and set the hen on a few worthless eggs until she fairly 
means business. Then at night carefully remove those eggs, and 
slip under her the eggs intended for hatching, having warmed 
them in water of blood-heat temperature. Thirteen eggs are a 
good setting. Teach the hen to come off ever}' day for food and 
water ; and see that she is not disturbed by children, or rats who 
will carry off the eggs. 

Hens set three weeks ; turkeys, geese and ducks, four. When 
the eggs hatch, pick out carefully all the broken shell, but do not 
feed nor encourage the hen to come off for twenty-four hours ; then 
give the hen corn, and coarse dough from mixed meals, but feed 
the chicks on a dry curd from sour milk, or with bread and hard- 
boiled eggs, crumbled fine, and slightly moistened with new milk. 
They will need feeding every two hours. As chickens are astir by 
four o'clock in the morning, prepare their food the night before, 
as they must not wait until eight or nine o'clock for their break- 
fast. Early, little, and often, is a good rule. Keep them quiet 
for a few days, and then confine the hen in a coop, or in a box 
with a wire run. 

Dampness and cold are death to young chicks, ducks, turkeys, 
and goslings alike. The young turkeys are most easily affected. 



646 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BO< >K. 

They need a dry box, yet must be unconfined. Make a close pen, 
in a dry place, a little above the ground, with a door, instead of a 
slat entrance ; fence in a yard around it of boards set on edge. 
Stake these firml}', and let the old turkey run. She will jump in 
and out, but will not leave the brood. Drive them into the box 
on the approach of a shower, or while the grass is wet from dew. 
Keep the boxes perfectly clean, or the little ones will have gapes 
and vermin. 

Make chicken coops without a bottom, and move them daily ; 
or in damp places use a coop with a movable floor, like the drawer 
of a mocking-bird cage; it must be cleaned and sanded every daj. 
Chickens moult at six weeks old. Until after this time they are 
very tender. Dampness or chill will cause diarrhoea. Accustom 
them gradually to a food of mixed barley, oat, wheat, rye and 
buckwheat meals, stirred up with water, or skim-milk, to a crum- 
bly dough. Corn-meal dough, unless scalded, is not good for 
them, being fattening, and too laxative. Often sprinkle all the 
old hens, the chicks, and the boxes, with insect powder ; dryness,^ 
warmth and cleanliness ensure almost entire immunity from disease. 

Goslings must have green stuff, as grass, lettuce, cabbage, from 
the first. They should be taken from the mother the second or 
third day. Drive off the mothers to the lake, and care for the 
little ones at home, until they are eight weeks old, when they may 
begin to go with the old ones. Turkeys, geese and ducks, if they 
run at large, will get their living in the summer and fall, but 
should have grain at a regular time each night to keep them in 
the habit of coming home to sleep. 

If a fowl has cholera, diphtheria, or roup, unless it is very val- 
uable and can be kept completely isolated from the rest of the - 
flock, kill it at once, as the disease is infectious, and the whole 
flock may be lost. Roup is known b}' an offensive breath, dis- 
charge from nostrils, and swollen face and eyes. Fumigate the 
house, cleanse with carbolic acid every dish and drinking fountain, 
and give Walton's roup pills, sulphur, and copaiba capsules. 

For laying fowls, give mixed meals, wet up in milk, at morn- 
ing and noon, and dry mixed grains at night. Give plenty of 
clean water all the time. A hen drinks seventeen times a clay, 



BETWEEN TIMES. 647 

and will not lay without plenty of water. Never let the house and 
runs be out of clean gravel, broken plaster and lime, scraps of 
meat, charcoal, and green stuff. Hang up the green clover, cab- 
bage, celery tops, etc. , where they can jump and get it. Venti- 
late ; let the house be sunny, but give shade in the runs. Give 
dusting boxQB of clean road-dust, in which is mixed insect powder 
and sulphur. Keep these boxes in the sun, and freshen often. 
Make the roosts low, removable, and not one above another. 

Keep the flock well culled ; those to be fattened and sold should 
be separated from the others, and fed on corn meal mixed with 
lard, tallow or drippings. Feed all they will eat, and kill them 
when the market is good. Poultry raising requires constant watch- 
fulness, carefulness, and the exercise of common sense. 

RENOVATING. 

There comes, at times, the necessity of cleansing and making 
over garments, cushions, comforts, draperies, carpets, etc. Un- 
less such work can be well done, it is best not to attempt it at all. 

Certain articles, used in cleansing and bleaching, should have 
their place in every well-ordered household; among these are white 
castile soap, liquid ammonia, oxalic acid crystals, dissolved in 
soft water and kept closety bottled, carbonate of ammonia in 
crystals, soda, acetic acid, naphtha, pulverized soapstone, and 
soap bark. 

Fabrics may be colored at home by using the Family dyes, that 
come with full directions, and are obtainable at any drug store ; 
these are largely aniline dyes, and are used successfully by those 
who know little of dyeing. 

In ripping garments for cleansing, be careful that the fabric is 
not cut, torn, or pulled. Use a sharp penknife, and draw the 
threads where it is possible. When the seams are ripped, and the 
hems, pleatings, and shirrings opened, go over each piece, remove 
everj T thread, and find the spots needing special attention. As 
grease spots will not show when the cloth is wet, circle them with 
a light basting thread. Brush the dust off caref ull}-, and lay each 
piece smooth and straight. If there are moth or other holes that 



648 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

need attention, darn and mend them before they become enlarged 
in cleaning. 

Cover a smooth board with two or more thicknesses of clean, 
white cloth ; draw it closely and pin together. Lay each spotted 
piece smoothly on this board. Put fresh blotting paper under the 
clean grease spots, cover them with powdered magnesia, and set a 
warm, not hot, iron on them with a cloth over the magnesia. The 
grease, melting, will be absorbed by the magnesia and the paper 
below. Repeat the process until clean. If grease is dirty, or 
colored, make a warm suds of white castile soap and soft water. 
Use a piece of the fabric, or a small sponge, and sop the spots, 
pressing hard but not rubbing, until the dirt, or color, yields. 
Dry, and, if the grease remains, take out as clean grease. If the 
fabric has a delicate color that will be changed by the application 
of soap and water, apply naphtha. 

Remove spots made by acid with an alkali ; a little ammonia 
in water usually restores lemon, vinegar, or colorless acid spots ; 
use sparingly, increasing the strength until it neutralizes the acid; 
sop, do not rub, them with a cloth. If the spot results from al- 
kali, use acid, in the same way, to remove it. A fruit stain is 
often made indelible by washing in soap. If water will not injure 
the goods, lay the spot over a deep dish, and pour boiling water 
through it until it is gone. 

Black iron rust yields to oxalic acid. Red iron rust must be 
treated with muriatic acid. Both acids and alkalies are destruc- 
tive to man}' fabrics, and should be immediately rinsed with water, 
in which is a little soda, when the spot has yielded to them. 

Crystals of oxalic acid, dissolved in a bottle of water until but 
few crystals remain in the bottle, may be used for ink and leather 
stains, and for fruit stains on the hands. 

Muriatic acid dissolved in water is excellent to restore many 
faded colors of the aniline variety. 

When ink or iodine has been spilled on a carpet, make a thick 
paste of common starch and water, spread on the spot, to the 
depth of half an inch, and leave it to dry. If the spot has not 
disappeared when the crust comes off, repeat the process. 

Coffee stains may be removed as ink stains, or by soaking in cold 



BETWEEN TIMES. 649 

water; tea stains'by washing in cold, soft water; and colors which 
have been injured by washing in soapsuds may be restored by 
rinsing in water to which a little vinegar has been added. Fabrics 
that are not to be washed may often be sponged on the right side 
with a piece of the same goods wet in soft, warm water, until they 
are evenly dampened. Press on the wrong side with a moderately 
hot iron until smooth. 

Black silks may be sponged with water in which potatoes have 
been boiled, and fastened smoothly to a well-planed board which 
has a tight cover of calico. If it is sponged on the right side un- 
til clean, then turned on the covered board, fastened exactly as 
the piece should lie, spouged again and left to dry, it will come 
off looking like new; but ironing silks and ribbons, especially 
grosgrain silks, gives them anything but a desirable appearance. 

The soft china silks often wash as well as white cloth. 

Embroideries and laces must always be pressed on the wrong 
side to throw the design into relief. 

Mildew on white cottons and linens is a fungus growth, and 
great care must be taken not to injure the fabric in its removal. 
If only lightly mildewed, rub the spot between the hands in sour 
mlik, or in vinegar and water, and dry in the sun ; repeat the 
process until it is gone. With the worst cases the garment should 
be laid in the hot sun at once to destroy the germs, and the places 
touched with a feather dipped in oxalic acid slightly reduced with 
water. Rinse out and repeat till clear. A little ammonia or soda 
should always be added to the last rinsing water to neutralize the 
effects of the acid. 

Tar and pitch may be slightly scraped with a dull knife, but 
not to injure the fabric ; rub clean oil or lard, with the finger, into 
both sides of the spot until it softens, and then wash with clean, 
hot suds. 

Grass stains can be removed, before washing, by sponging with 
alcohol, or soaking in camphor and bleaching in the sun ; but they 
are veiy stubborn after they are set. 

Cheap laces and woolens, that are yellow, may be carefully 
washed in clean suds, rinsed, and hung in a closelj'-covered box 
and whitened with burning sulphur. The fumes combine with the 



650 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

dampness, and bleach beautifully. Take care that the vessel con- 
taining the burning sulphur is not close enough to scorch the arti- 
cles. In bleaching with sulphur, one should keep the mouth and 
nose covered with several thicknesses of wet cloth to avoid inhala- 
tion of the fumes while covering the box. 

Comforts, with all the brushing, airing, sunning, and care that 
it is possible to give them, should be made over every second year. 
While blankets and quilts may be washed, mattresses made over, 
and feathers renewed and cleansed, comforts often are left, year 
after year, to absorb the exhalations of the body. Cut or rip off 
the binding, and cut every tie with a pair of sharp-pointed scis- 
sors. Take the comfort into the shed, and open carefully by re- 
moving first one side and then the other. If these are suitable to 
use again, lay away for washing, and take the batting to the line, 
where it may be lightly whipped to remove the dust. Do this in 
the spring while there is snow, so it may be spread on the fresh 
snow, or, better, the crust that forms by warm days and cold 
nights. Leave it, and occasionally turn, or remove to a clean 
place until it is clean and fluffy. In the meantime prepare the 
outside. It will be an easy da} 7 's work, now, to make the comfort 
as good as new. 

Many draperies may be washed, and many not washable may be 
freed from dust and cleaned with naphtha. 

Most carpets may be freshened by freeing from dust, removing 
spots, and wiping carefully with ammonia water. 

This is an excellent cleansing fluid : Cut two ounces of castile 
soap into a pint of soft water, and heat until the soap is dissolved. 
Add one quart of cold, soft water, one ounce of ether, one ounce 
of alcohol, and two ounces of ammonia. Shake well, bottle, cork 
tightly, and keep for general use. In washing fast-colored fabrics 
use a cupful to a pail of soft water. Wash quickly and rinse. 

An article to be dyed must be freed from dirt and grease. 
Use none but clean utensils in the work. Bright copper and tin 
vessels are best for most dyes, though iron may be used in a few cases. 

Logwood chips, well boiled, are more satisfactory than extract 
of logwood, and their color holds better. 

Where woods and gums are used for dyeing, it is necessary to 



BETWEEN TIMES. 05 1 

boil them in thin bags, or to strain the liquid after boiling. No 
fabric should be immersed in a dye containing sediment or undis- 
solved particles. 

All goods should be thoroughly wet in warm, soft water before 
dipping into the tfxe ; then shake out well and air. Every dye 
should be made with pure, soft water, and in a sufficient quantity 
to thoroughly soak the goods without crowding. 

There should be a lifter or two strong enough to hold the goods 
up from the vessel to air. Goods in scarlet, black, or almost any 
color, must be continually lifted, and opened, and immersed again, 
until they are of an even color, and of the right shade. A neg- 
lect in this respect will ensure striped and spotted goods. Scarlet 
and blue goods may be rinsed in mild vinegar-water after dyeing, 
and black should be well washed in soapsuds and rinsed in clear 
water. Hang out smoothly to dry, and put delicate colors in the 
shade. 

Full directions come with each package of prepared dyes, and 
success is almost certain. Some of the most important recipes in 
using drugs are given below. 

COTTON. 

Jet Black. — For twenty pounds of goods use five pounds of 
sumac in a tub of cold water; after the cloth is thoroughly wet, 
wring it out and shake well ; repeat the operation three times, and 
let the cloth remain all night in the sumac water. In the morn- 
ing wring out, dip into a tub of weak lime water and wring dry. 
Dissolve two pounds of copperas in a tub of cold water, adding a 
pailful of the sumac liquid. Dip in and wring out the cloth six 
times ; put the cloth into the lime water again after two pailf uls of 
fresh lime water have been added. Add six pounds of logwood and 
one pound of fustic, previously scalded, to another tub of water ; 
put in the cloth and wring out, and dip it ten times ; lift out, 
darken the liquid with a little copperas, and return the goods once 
more. A purplish-black is obtained by omitting the sumac. 

Blue. — Use half a pound of copperas to color ten pounds of 
goods. Boil and dip for twenty minutes ; dip in soapsuds and re- 
turn to the dye three or four times. Make a new bath with two 



652 HOUSEKEEPER COOK'.BOOK, 

ounces of prussiate of potash, and one-third of a pint of oil of 
vitriol, and boil the goods in it half an hour ; rinse and dry. 

Brown. — Catechu, or terra japonica, gives cotton a brown 
color, blue vitriol turns it on the bronze ; green copperas darkens 
it, when applied as a mordant and the stuff boiled in the bath boil- 
ing hot. Acetate of alumina, as a mordant, brightens it. The 
French color named "Carmelite" is given with catechu one pound, 
verdigris four ounces, and sal ammoniac five ounces. 

Green. — For ten pounds of goods, use two and a half pounds 
of fustic, two and a half ounces of blue vitriol, one pint of soft 
soap, and four ounces of logwood chips. Soak the logwood over 
night in a brass vessel ; put it on the fire in the morning, adding 
the other ingredients. When quite hot it is ready for dyeing ; en- 
ter the goods at once, and handle well. Different shades may be 
obtained by letting part of the goods remain longer in the dye. 

Pink. — For ten pounds of goods, use one pound of redwood 
chips, and half a pound of muriate of tin ; boil the redwood one 
hour, and turn off into a large vessel ; add the muriate of tin, put 
in the goods and let it stand five or ten minutes. 

Yellow. — For ten pounds of goods, use one pound of sugar of 
lead ; dip the goods two hours. Make a new dye with half a pound 
of bichromate of potash ; dip until the color suits ; wring out and 
dry ; if not yellow enough, repeat the operation. 

SILK." 

Royal Blue. — For ten pounds of silk, make up a tub of nitrate 
of iron at six degrees, to which add one pint of good muriate of 
tin and four ounces of tartaric acid ; wring out and return, repeat- 
ing for an hour ; in another tub, prepare one and a half pounds of 
dissolved prussiate and one gill of oil of vitriol. Wash the goods 
out of iron tub, and put into prussiate tub ; repeat in iron twice, 
and once in prussiate ; wash out of the iron, and put in a tub in 
which oil of vitriol has been dissolved, until it tastes sour ; give 
six wrings to clear of any rust that may adhere to it. More prus- 
siate will produce a darker, and less a lighter color, but the same 
quantity of iron and tin must be used. 

Brown. — Dissolve one pound of annatto and four pounds of 
pearlash in boiling water, and pass the silk through it for two 



BETWEEN TIMES. 653 

hours ; take it out, squeeze well and dry ; give it a mordant bath 
of alum, and pass it through a bath of Brazil-wood and another of 
logwood, to which a little green copperas has been added ; wring 
it out and dry ; afterward rinse it well. 

Green. — Boil green ebony, in a bag, in. hot water. Pour off 
the clear, hot liquor and handle the silk in it till of a bright yel- 
low color. Put a little sulphate of indigo into water, and dip in 
the goods until of the desired shade. 

Lilac. — For five pounds of silk use seven and a half pounds of 
archil ; mix it well with water and boil a quarter of an hour ; dip 
in the silk quickly, then cool, and wash it in soft water. 

Mulberry. — For five pounds of silk use one and a quarter 
pounds of alum ; dip fifty minutes ; wash out ; make a dye by 
boiling together five ounces of Brazil-wood and one and a quarter 
ounces of logwood ; dip in this for half an hour ; then add equal 
parts of Brazil-wood and logwood until the color is satisfactory. 

Slate. — For a small quantity, take a pan of warm water and 
a teacupful of logwood liquor, pretty strong, and a piece of pearl- 
ash the size of a nut ; handle gray-colored goods for a little time 
in this liquid, and it is finished. If very much logwood is used, 
the color will be too dark. For a straw color on silk, use swart- 
weed ; boil in a brass vessel, and set with alum. 

Violet. — A good violet dye for silk or wool may be given by 
passing the goods through a solution of verdigris, then through a 
decoction of logwood, and lastly alum water. A fast violet may 
be given by dyeing the goods crimson with cochineal, without 
alum or tartar, and, after rinsing, passing them through the in- 
digo vat. Linens or cottons are first galled with eighteen per 
cent, of gall nuts ; next passed through a mordant of alum-iron 
liquor, and sulphate of copper, working them well ; then worked 
in a madder bath made with an equal weight of root ; and lastly 
brightened with soap or soda. 

WOOL. 

Black. — For ten pounds of wool or silk goods, use twelve 
ounces of blue vitriol ; boil it a short time, then dip the fabric 
three-quarters of an hour, airing frequently ; take out the goods ; 
make a dye with six pounds of logwood ; boil half an hour, dip 



654 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

three-quarters of an hour ; air the goods, and dip quarter of an 
hour longer ; wash in strong soapsuds. 

Blue. — For each pound of material take two and a half ouncss 
of alum and one and a half of cream of tartar. Boil them together 
in a brass or copper kettle for an hour. Take sufficient warm 
water to cover the goods, and color it to the desired shade with 
chemic blue. Put all into the copper kettle, and boil it a short 
time, taking care to stir it all the time ; remove the cloth, wash in 
clear, cold water, and hang it up to drjr. 

Brown. — An infusion or decoction of walnut peels gives wool 
and silk a brown color, which is brightened by alum. Horse- 
chestnut peels color brown ; a mordant of muriate of tin gives a 
bronze hue, and sugar of lead a reddish-brown shade. 

Dark Snuff Brown. — For ten pounds of goods, take two 
pounds of camwood ; boil for twenty minutes, and dip the goods for 
three-quarters of an hour ; then take out, and add to the dye five 
pounds of fustic ; boil twelve minutes, and dip the goods three- 
quarters of an hour ; add two ounces of blue vitriol, and eight 
ounces of copperas ; dip again forty minutes ; add more copperas 
if the shade is required very dark. 

Oreen. — Use equal quantities of yellow oak and hickoiy bark ; 
make a strong yellow bath by boiling ; shade to the desired tint 
by adding a small quantit}^ of extract of indigo. This dye is also 
used for silk. 

Orange. — For ten pounds of goods, use ten ounces of argol, 
and two gills of muriate of tin ; boil, and d«ip one hour ; then add 
to the dye five pounds of fustic and one pint of madder, and dip 
again forty minutes. If preferred, four ounces of cochineal may 
be used instead of the madder, as it gives a better color. 

Pink. — For ten pounds of goods, use one pound of alum ; boil, 
and immerse the goods fift} r minutes ; add to the dye three ounces 
of well-pulverized cochineal and twelve ounces of cream of tartar; 
boil, and enter the goods while boiling until the color is satisfactory. 

Purple. — For ten pounds of goods, use twelve ounces of alum, 
one teacupful of muriate of tin, two ounces of pulverized cochi- 
neal, and eight ounces of cream of tartar. Boil the alum, tin, 
and cream of tartar for twenty minutes ; add the cochineal, and 



BETWEEN TIMES. 655 

boil Ave minutes; immerse the goods two hours ; remove and en- 
tT them in a new dye composed of twelve pounds of Brazd-wood. 

wo pounds of logwood, one pound of alum, two eupfuls of mun- 
ate of tin, adding a little extraetof indigo, made as follows Take 
two pounds of oH of vitriol, and stir into it eight ounces ot finely 
p^ve ized indigo, stirring briskly for half an hour ; «>™ ' ; 

„d stir four or five times daily for a few days. Star m a little 
;lerLd chalk as long as it foams. It will neutralize the actd. 

^"^uudsof goods, make a tolerably thick paste 
of lac dye and sulphuric acid, and allow it to stand for a day. 
Take one pound of tartar, half a pound of tin liquor^ and twelve 
„; ces of the above paste J make a hot bath with sufflcent water 
mid enter the goods for three-quarters of an hour; afterwards 

("irefullv rinse and dry. ,. 

So «nKT -For ten pounds of flannel or yarn, take two and a half 
pounds of ground lac dye, one and a half pounds of scarlet spmt 
ha a pound of tartar, one and one-fifth ounces of flav.ne, one 
■ndon'flith ounces of tin crystals, and half a poun, of ™attc 
acid Boil all together for fifteen minutes ; cool to 170 Fab , 
'in goods, handling quickly at first; boil one hour; rmsewhde hot 
tore the gum ana impurities harden. A small quantity of snl- 
„, „ U may be added to dissolve the gum. Tins scarlet color 
' ,„ soap better than the cochineal. Scarlet sp.r.t » made f n ,n 
bis recipe : Put two pounds of muriatic acid (22° B.), two ounces 
o f ■ tiered tin and one-quarter of a pound of water mto a stone 
■l and let it dissolve ; use in a few days. The tin is feather,, 
melting and pouring from a height of five feet mto a pad o 
water To color yarn, boil eight pounds of yarn one hour w,th 
Zhalf a pound of cochineal, two pounds of young fusttc seven- 
tenths of a pound of white or brown tartar, and three-tenths ot a 

nuart of oxalic muriate of tin. 

" W^oxuaM.ylAO.STA.-For one pound of woolen goods 
matenta, ninety-sis grains, apothecaries' weight, of andme red 
"iUbc required; dissolve one ounce of aniline in s,x flu.d ounces 

IV. Many dyers use , 1 spirit, because of >te cheap- 

,L For solfermo use sixty-four grains of aniline red, d,ssolved 



656 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

in four ounces alcohol, to each pound of goods. One quart of 
cold water will dissolve these small quantities of aniline red, but 
the cleanest and quickest way will be found by using the alcohol 
or wood spirit. Clean the cloth and goods by steeping in weak 
soapsuds ; rinse in several changes of clean water, and lay aside 
while moist. Add the alcoholic solution of aniline from time to 
time to the warm or hot dye bath, till the color on the goods is of 
the desired shade. Remove the goods from the dye bath before 
each addition of the alcoholic solution, and stir the bath well be- 
fore the goods are returned. Drop the alcoholic solution into a 
little water ; mix well, and strain into the dye bath. If the color 
is not dark enough after working from twenty to thirty minutes, 
repeat the above process of removal, of the addition of the solu- 
tion, etc. , until the color is satisfactory. Rinse it several times in 
clear water, and diy in the shade. Use four gallons of water for 
one pound of goods. 

Violet. — Pass the goods through a solution of verdigris, one 
of logwood, and lastly alum water. This gives a good color. A 
fast color is given by dyeing the goods with cochineal, without 
alum or tartar, and, after rinsing, passing them through the in- 
digo vat. This recipe is used for silk goods. Linens or cottons 
are galled with eighteen per cent, of gall nuts and passed through 
a mordant of alum-iron liquor and sulphate of copper, working 
them well ; then worked in a madder bath made with an equal 
weight of root, and lastly brightened with soap or soda. 

Wine Color. — For ten pounds of goods, use two pounds of 
camwood ; boil twenty minutes ; dip the goods half an hour ; boil 
again, and dip forty minutes ; then darken with three ounces of 
blue vitriol ; add one pound of copperas to obtain a darker shade. 

STRAW. 

Black. — Boil three or four hours in a strong liquor of logwood, 
adding a little copperas occasionally. Let bonnets remain in the 
liquor all night ; then take out to dry in the air ; if the black is 
not satisfactory, d} r e again after diying. Rub inside and out with 
a sponge moistened in fine oil, and block them. 

Blue. — Take a sufficient quantity of potash lye, and one pound 



BETWEEN TIMES. 657 

of ground litmus, to make a decoction, and then put in the straw 
and boil it. 

Red. — Boil ground Brazil-wood in a lye of potash, and boil the 
straw, etc., in it. 

Slate. — Soak the straw in strong, warm suds for fifteen min- 
utes, to remove sizing or stiffening ; rinse in warm water to elim- 
inate the soap ; scald one ounce of cudbear in sufficient water to 
cover the material, and work in this dye, at 180° of heat, until of 
a light purple ; have a bucket of cold water blued with half an 
ounce of extract of indigo; work or stir the straw in this until 
the tint pleases ; dry, rinse with cold water, and dry again in the 
shade. If the purple is very deep in shade, the final slate will be 
too dark. 

Silver Gray. — Select the whitest straw, and soften in a bath 
of Ctystallized soda, to which clean lime water has been added. 
Boil for two hours in a large vessel, using for bath a decoction of 
the following, viz. : one pound of alum, one-tenth of a pound of 
tartaric acid, some ammoniacal cochineal, and carmine of indigo ; 
a little sulphuric acid may be necessary to neutralize the alkali of 
the cochineal dye. If the last- mentioned ingredients are used, let 
the straw remain for an hour longer in the boiling bath, then rinse 
in slightly acidulated water. 

miscellaneous. 

To Bleach Feathers. — Keep the feathers from three to four 
hours in a tepid dilute solution of bichromate of potassa, to which 
a small quantity of nitric acid has been cautiously added. To 
remove a greenish hue induced by this solution, place them in a 
dilute solution of sulphuric acid in water ; the feathers will become 
perfectly white. 

To Clean Ostrich Feathers. — Cut white curd soap in small 
pieces ; pour boiling water on them, and add a little pearlash. 
When the soap is quite dissolved, and the mixture cool enough for 
the hand, plunge the feathers into it, and draw them through the 
hand till the dirt appears squeezed out ; pass them through a clean 
lather with bluing in it; then rinse in cold bluing water to give 
them a good color. Beat them against the hand, and dry by shak- 



658 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

ing them near a fire. Coil each fiber separately with a blunt knife 
or ivory holder. 

To Clean Furs. — For dark furs, warm a quantity of new bran 
in a pan, stirring briskly to keep it from burning. When well 
warmed, rub it thoroughly into the fur with the hand. Repeat 
this two or three times ; then shake the fur, and give it a sharp 
brushing, until free from dust. Lay white furs on a table, and 
rub well with bran moistened with warm water ; rub until quite 
dry, and then use the dry bran. The wet bran should be put on 
with flannel ; dry with book muslin. Light furs should be well 
rubbed with magnesia, or a piece of book muslin, against the way 
of the fur, after the bran process. 

To Dye Feathers. — Black — Immerse for two or three days in 
a hot bath of eight parts of logwood and copperas, or one part of 
acetate of iron. Blue — with the indigo vat. Brown — by using 
any of the brown dyes for silk or wool. Crimson — a mordant of 
alum, followed by a hot bath of Brazil-wood, afterward by a weak 
dye of cudbear. Pink or Rose — with safliower or lemon juice. 
Plum — with the red dye, followed by an alkaline bath. Red — 
a mordant of alum, followed by a bath of Brazil-wood. Yellow 
— a mordant of alum, followed by a bath of turmeric or weld. 
Green — take one ounce each of verdigris and verditer, and one 
pint of gum water; mix them well, and dip the feathers, soaked 
in hot water, into the mixture. Purple — use lake and indigo. 
Carnation — vermillion and smalt. Thin gum or starch water 
should be used in dyeing feathers. 

Limewater. — Put one pound of stone lime and one and one- 
half pounds of strong limewater into a pail of water. Stir well 
for eight minutes ; wait until the lime is precipitated and the 
water is clear. Add this quantity to a tubf ul of clear water. 



DAIRYING. 

GOOD cows are requisite to successful dairying. There is as 
much difference, and of the same kind, between one cow and 
another as there is between the tree that bears large, juicy, finely- 
flavored apples in abundance, and one that bears bitter-sour, 
knotty, small crabs. 

One accustomed to caring for the milk of a herd of six cows, 
will readily detect in the dark which pail of milk belongs to one 
cow, and which to another, by its odor. Some cows, however fed 
and cared for, give milk with a "cowy" flavor. Though all right 
in other respects this is a defect that spoils the milk for butter. 
They should be sent to the shambles. 

Some cows give a large flow of milk when fresh, fall off rap- 
idly, and go dry four months before being fresh again. These 
are not profitable cows, as their board equals their production. 
Other cows give milk that, however rich in oils the feed given 
them, has a thin, white cream, and is as blue and thin as if it had 
been watered. It will require sixty pounds of such milk to make 
a pound Of butter, and cheese made from it will be hard and dry 
like skim-milk cheese. Dry up and fatten such cows, usually 
they will fatten easily, and send them to the butchers, for a cow 
will produce after her kind, and calves from such cows will never 
be good milkers. 

A cow's milk, to be good, should be sweet, containing a good 
per cent, of sugar ; yellow, the cream rising quickly and being ad- 
hesive, or, forming a skin on the milk ; entirely free from the 
taste of the barn, and bearing on two quarts at least a pint of 
good, thick cream. The milk of some cows bears on two quarts 
a pint and a half of cream, thick enough to whip, and then is 
good to drink ; this is exceptional, and such cows give a small 
quantity of milk. It is better econom}- to keep a cow that will 
give ten quarts of good milk, three hundred and fifty days in a 
year, than one that will give twice as much of thin, blue milk, 
and go dry three or four months. 

659 



660 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

The Jerseys are considered the better butter cows, yet once in 
awhile a thorough-bred Jersey proves to be very poor. The Hol- 
stein-Friesian cows are good, and the Ayrshires are excellent 
milkers, yet sometimes an old native cow will equal any of these. 
One may have a good breed, and yet have a very poor cow. 

The points of a good cow are : a fine, clear-cut face, with large 
and prominent eyes, a slender, deer-like neck, prominent milk 
veins, a large udder, which is soft and elastic, mellow, yellow 
skin, fine silky hair, and a strong, well-defined spine. Breeders 
give other points, but these will give an idea of what is needed. 
A coarse-haired, large, rangy cow often gives a large flow of milk, 
but is not a satisfactory milker. Milk should be tested, and dairy- 
men should reject every cow which will not yield at least twelve 
pounds of butter per week in the height of feed. 

Proper food is essential. A good cow can be spoiled by feed- 
ing on slop, kitchen refuse, foul seed and malt, and by drinking 
impure water. Cows should be healthy, j-oung, not over ten 
years, and fed with a variety of foods ; as meal from pure grains, 
bran, a little oil-meal at least once a week, and plenty of good, 
clean hay ; green food, as corn-fodder, which, for winter use, may 
be kept in a silo, and all the water they will drink. Change the 
feed occasionally, give them the benefit of variety, and keep salt 
where they can get it every day. Give plenty of light and fresh 
air without a draught. 

The stable should be clean, light, and comfortable. A cow will 
give more and healthier milk in proportion as she is comfortable, 
contented, and kindly used. A cow that is scolded, kicked, and 
uncurried, and that spends her time in a dark, filthy stable, will 
never give milk fit to be used. 

Another essential is perfect cleanliness about the stables, the 
milking, and every utensil used in any way for the milk. The 
pails should never for a moment be set down in the stable, or in 
any place where there is an objectionable odor, and the place 
where milk is set for cream or cheese should be used for milk 
alone, with no odors about it. Milk dishes should be thoroughly 
rinsed in cool water before washing. Wash with warm suds, with 
a little soda in the water. Use a clean cloth in washing, and a 



dairying. 661 

small brush to scrub out seams aud corners. When all have been 
well washed and drained, scald thoroughly, dry with a clean 
towel, and set them out of the way of dust. Hub strainers with 
fine salt, before scalding, to keep them from becoming clogged. 

BUTTER MAKING. 

Set the milk in tall, well-ventilated pails, having holes around 
the top the size of holes in a colander, with close fitting covers ; 
strain the milk directly into them after milking, through two 
thicknesses of cheesecloth, or muslin, and a fine wire strainer. 
A good strainer pail is excellent for this purpose. iErate by 
pouring from one pail to another. Plunge the pails into water 
that will lower the temperature of the milk at once to about 62°. 
If the milkhouse is so situated that the water reservoir may be 
supplied with running water, an even temperature will be secured, 
and if it is free from dust it will be better to leave off the covers. 
Let the milk stand from thirty-six to forty-eight hours, never 
longer, and skim. . If future skimmings are to be added to the 
cream it must be kept at a low uniform temperature, and stirred 
every time fresh cream is added. 

The day before churning, remove the cream from the milkhouse, 
and raise to a temperature of 70°. This may be done in a warm 
room, or by plunging the vessel in water of that temperature, and 
stirring often. When it begins to be sour, it is right for the 
churn. Bring it to a temperature of 63° in winter, and a little 
lower, sa} T 58° in summer. It is necessary to use a thermometer, 
as testing b}- guess work is never satisfactory, and, to a certain 
extent, the conditions under which the cream is to be churned 
must regulate the temperature. One may soon tell at what tem- 
perature to churn the cream, and if it is too warm, remedy this, 
to some extent, by adding small, clean pieces of ice, until the 
temperature is right, but the butter flavor will not be so delicate. 

Use a churn with the least possible machinery ; the square box- 
churn, with crank, and the barrel churn, are both good. Churn 
until the granules of butter are as large as wheat grains, and are 
well risen to the top. Draw off the milk carefully ; wash the but- 
ter in the churn in two salted waters, as cool as 46° to 50° in sum- 
mer, and, if the butter is hard, from 50° to 5G° in winter. 



662 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

Add one and one-half ounces of salt to ever}^ pound of butter, 
and work in with smooth, hard-wood ladles that have been prop- 
erly washed, scalded, and cooled in cold water during the churning. 
When this has been worked in sufficiently by upward and down- 
ward strokes, like egg-beating, lift the butter out into a worker, 
washed, scalded, and cooled with water, and which inclines well, 
that the brine may run off. Make, with the ladles, into a mass ; 
spread a piece of wet muslin over it, and leave it to cool. If the 
butter is hard and firm at' first it is better to work and pack it as 
soon as the salt is dissolved, as a second working always seems to 
injure the grain ; but it must not be worked when it is at all soft. 

When cool and firm, work over carefully with the ladle until 
the water and brine are all out, and pack firmly in a jar just large 
enough to hold it. Press down firmly with the ladle, striking it 
in until there are no air holes, and smooth the top by pressing, not 
by scraping. Cut a round piece of muslin considerably larger 
than the jar, and press down upon the butter, letting the edges of 
the muslin lay over the sides. There should be an inch of space 
between the butter and the top of the jar. Fill this with a coarser 
salt than dairy salt, and lay back the edges of the muslin over the 
salt ; fit on the cover of the jar, and remove to a cool, odorless 
place. In the absence of a well-fitting cover to the jar, tie over 
it two thicknesses of strong manilla paper, and wash the top with 
the white of an egg. If it is wanted to preserve butter, fill the 
jar with cold water, or brine ; this keeps it from getting strong, by 
excluding the air ; but the aroma of the butter is finer without it 
if one uses an ice chest, or a very cold, sweet cellar. 

CHEESE MAKING. 

Insist upon perfect cleanliness in everything. To get rid of the 
odor a cow invariably imparts to her milk, strain at once, hold 
high where the air is pure, and pour slowly from one pail to an- 
other. If this is done several times the milk will become thor- 
oughly aerated, and the odor removed. 

The temperature of milk when first drawn from the cow is 70°, 
and the delay of straining, aerating, and setting, lessens it. Raise 
it to 88° and set in pans or vats. Add sufficient extract of rennet 



DAIRYING. 663 

to curdle the milk in twenty minutes, so it will be right for cut- 
ting. Use a thin, sharp knife, and carefully, without pushing or 
maugling, cut through the coagulated milk to the bottom, divid- 
ing it into pieces an inch and a half square. Leave it fifteen min- 
utes, and then, over hot water, gradually raise the temperature to 
94°, and begin dipping off the whey. When the curd has < 'cooked" 
through, or has parted with enough of its whey to become firm 
enough to stir, separate carefully from the pan with the finger, 
and, by giving the pan a slight rotary motion, loosen and pour it 
into the cheese basket, over which a large square of cheesecloth 
has been spread. 

This basket should be flat-bottomed, loosely woven, and should 
rest on wooden cheese tongs over a tub used solely for this pur- 
pose. Keep the temperature at 94°, as it becomes read}- for the 
hoop sooner when kept warm. As the whey ceases to drip, use 
the thin knife again and again, to divide it in inch cubes, taking 
care not to mash it. When it will "squeafc" in the teeth on bit- 
ing, it is dry enough to salt. Take it out on a cheese board, cut 
it carefully in half-inch cubes, and return it to the basket. Use 
two ounces of salt to eighty-four pounds of milk, and somewhat 
more late in the season. When it is salted stir up with the hand 
until every piece is sprinkled with salt, and leave it fifteen min- 
utes to work into the curd. 

Lay a large cloth in the hoop, as smoothly as possible. Fill 
with the curd until it is slightty rounded up. Draw up the cloth, 
first one side and then the opposite, over the top, making it 
smooth. Put on the follower, which should fit the hoop, and put 
into the press. Apply the weight gradually until, in four hours, 
the whole weight is on. Leave the press cloths on, and turn in 
the hoops every morning. Press at least twenty-four hours, and 
do not remove unless the cheese is firm, and of symmetrical shape. 
Do not allow an}' "humps" or rough edges on the cheese. 

When removed from the hoop take off the press cloths and wash 
the cheese in hot butter, in which a teaspoonful of soda has been 
dissolved. Bandage the cheese with a strong cloth as soon as 
it is out of the press. Make the bandage two inches wider than 
the thickness of the cheese, bring it around it firmly, and sew it 



664 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

together. Paste the ^xtra width smoothly over the edges with 
the butter and soda. Cut round pieces to fit the top and bottom, 
and paste them on with the butter. Wash the sides outside the 
bandage with the hot butter. Butter the cheese board, put on the 
cheese, and keep it in a well ventilated room at a temperature of 
from 60° to 70°. Rub thoroughly with the butter every day, and 
turn, by having a second board, which, being placed on top, and 
the whole turned over, and the bottom board removed, will become 
the cheese board for the day. Do this regularly until the cheese 
is well cured. 

Green or sage cheese is made by coloring with a liquid obtained 
from bruised sage and corn leaves ; soak them over night in new 
milk and strain into half the milk designed for curd. When it 
comes to the press, distribute the green and white curds evenly in 
the hoop, and, at the first turning, make a design on the top of 
the cheese with fresh sage leaves. This cheese requires but little 
extra labor, and brings at least six cents more a pound. 

The curing room must be well ventilated, and if the heat rises 
higher than 70°, sprinkle the floor with cool water. Kill flies by 
sprinkling insect powder liberally about the closed room. 

The difference between homemade and factory cheese lies in the 
acidity of the curd. To obtain this let it set until, tested with a 
hot iron, threads from an eighth to a quarter of an inch are seen 
clinging to the iron. 

If one milking is not sufficient to make a full hoop, take previ- 
ous milkings, set in a temperature of 40°, heat, and use with the 
new milk. Avoid jarring the pan, table, or floor while the curd 
is forming, or the process will not be perfect. 

Rennet should be tested before using, and extract of rennet 
may be bought at the factories if one has not the homemade arti- 
cle. Buy a dried and cured rennet of the butcher, and keep in a 
close, earthen vessel. Cut off a third of it, and cover liberally 
with salt, half a cupful at least, add a pint of water, and soak 
over night. Two great spoonfuls will be needed for eight quarts 
of milk, and more if not strong. This must be thoroughly stirred 
into the milk ; add salt to what is left over, and fill up with water. 
Keep in a close vessel in a cool place. 



THE FAMILY. 

MORE attention is paid now to sanitary and healthful living 
than ever before, and it is made a study by scientists, phy- 
sicians and home-makers, who are seeking the best conditions of 
living. Right knowledge, with good common sense, must unite 
with love in planning for the entire well-being of the family, or 
life will become not only like "sweet bells jangled, out of tune," 
but fraught with disaster. 

SANITATION. 

In buying, building, or renting a house, choose, if possible, an 
elevated position with good drainage and where the sun can visit 
every room sometime during the day. Watch the plumbing closely ; 
keep the drain pipes clean, using disinfectants daily ; avoid cess- 
pools as sources of probable misery, and as sewer gas does not 
make known its presence at first by foul odors, it is necessary to 
watch for leaks, particularly in stationary basins, bathrooms, water- 
closets, etc. 

When a leak is suspected, shut the doors of all rooms and closets 
through which the waste pipe runs, close the adjustable traps in 
the pipe, and at its upper open mouth pour in a little valerian. 
In a few moments introduce a cat into the closed rooms, and, be- 
ing fond of valerian, which is of a very penetrating nature, if there 
is any leak she will detect the drug immediately. When not in 
use keep the stopper in the mouths of the waste pipes of all basins 
and sinks. On account of the danger arising from sewer gas, 
many of the finest houses are now built without stationary basins 
in the sleeping rooms ; these are confined to the bathrooms. The 
drainage of barns, stables and outdoor closets should be attended 
to carefully. In many places the water supply of the house is 
vitiated by close proximity, and the results are terrible. Cleanli- 
ness in all matters is imperative. 

dive the matter of ventilation careful attention. AVith houses 

665 



Q66 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

heated by steam, hot air or water, there are special arrangements 
to inject fresh air, and houses with water-closets may have venti- 
lating shafts, running up beside the chimney to the roof, which aid 
in carrying off the gases. An open fireplace, or a grate, is a good 
ventilator, and with a slight fire is a great purifier. Have plenty 
of fresh, pure air in the house, whatever the heat or cold, but avoid 
standing or sitting in drafts. Sleep with open windows, but ar- 
range the bed with reference to them. 

SICKNESS. 
Cleanliness is next to godliness. 

All great epidemics are said to begin in dirt. The history of 
cholera proves this, beginning, as it does, in the densely populated 
and filthy cities of the Orient. The germ theory of disease 
teaches the existence of a very close relation between the so-called 
zymotic diseases and decay. Not that decomposition is directly 
responsible for disease, but because it furnishes a condition of soil 
favorable to the development and growth of disease germs. 

Garbage should not be allowed to accumulate, but should be 
burned, or, if necessary, carried to some place of deposit as far 
as possible from habitations, or sources of water supply. 

A very prolific source of disease is defective drainage. Often 
slops and waste water are thrown into the yard, which trickle 
back into the well and pollute it, or form a reeking cess-pool which 
poisons the air. Cess-pools and sink holes should be drained, dis- 
infected, and then filled with dry earth, and kept dry. 

See that sewer connections are good. In cities the sewer con- 
nections with houses often allow the foul gases to rush back through 
the waste-pipes to closets or sinks, and into the house. A flue, 
connecting each system of drainage pipes with the tallest chimney 
in the house where a fire is constantly used, will draw off and con- 
sume the gases. 

Damp cellars must be drained and ventilated. Vegetables and 
other organic matter should not be allowed to undergo decomposi- 
tion on the premises. All low places, where water is liable to 
collect and become stagnant, should be filled with dry earth. 
Pure air and sunshine are great purifiers. Koch has discovered 



THE FAMILY. (J 6 7 

that sunshine will destroy the vitality of the tubercle bacillus. 
Let pure air and sunshine into every room. Unused closets and 
rooms need the greatest attention. These must be kept clean, dry 
and freely ventilated. That abomination, a refuse storeroom 
where old clothes, cast-off boots and shoes, broken furniture, etc., 
are allowed to accumulate, must not be tolerated, and if it exists 
its contents should be consigned to the flames. 

Keep the person scrupulously clean ; often change the clothing 
worn next to the person. Do not economize in washing bills. A 
cold bath every morning for very vigorous persons, or once or 
twice a week, and thorough rubbing with a coarse towel or flesh- 
brush when the bath is not taken, for the less robust, is necessary 
to keep the functions of the skin in health, and is very invigorat- 
ing. After warm baths a dash of cold water will prevent chill 
and "taking cold." In bathing in winter, the shock from cold 
water is lessened by standing a minute in the cold air, after removal 
of the clothing, before applying water. 

Never sleep in clothing worn during the day, and let that worn 
at night be exposed to the air by day. Three pints of moisture, 
filled with the waste of the body, are given off every twenty-four 
hours, and mostly absorbed by the clothing. Exposure to air and 
sunlight purifies the clothing and bedding of the poisons which 
nature is trying to get rid of, and which would otherwise be brought 
again into contact with the bod}\ 

The two great sanitary agents are air and water. Both must 
be pure. Dr. Parkes estimates that nearly three thousand cubic 
feet of air per hour are necessary for the full performance of the 
function of respiration. This quantity must be increased in shops, 
churches, theatres, and other public places. 

A house is only well ventilated when the air within is as pure 
as the air without. All systems of ventilation must provide, 
not only for the admittance of pure air, but also for withdrawing 
the foul air. The source of supply must be pure. Air is purified, 
naturally, by diffusion, oxidation and the action of wind and rains ; 
artificially by disinfectants. 

Sleeping apartments should be well ventilated, but it is neces- 
sary to avoid "drafts." An open fireplace or grate insures good 



668 HOUSEKEEPER COOKeBOOK. 

ventilation. If one is accustomed to sleeping with open windows, 
there is little danger of taking cold, winter or summer. People 
who shut up windows to keep out "night air" make a mistake. 
At night the only air to breathe is "night air." It is much pre- 
ferable to air laden with the effete products of respiration, 
i Impure water is another source of disease. The germs of ty- 
phoid fever, cholera, dysentery and many other diseases are con- 
veyed by drinking water more frequently than by any other agency. 
Water contaminated b} r surface drainage must be avoided. Do 
not drink water that has stood over night, particularly if the room 
is not fully ventilated. 

Disease germs will stand a great deal of cold and not have 
their vitality affected, but they are not able to stand heat above a 
certain degree. Taking advantage of this fact, drinking water 
can be rendered perfectly pure and safe by thoroughly boiling and 
filtering. 

Water may contain a great variety of organic and inorganic im- 
purities. The taste or odor of water cannot be relied upon as an 
index of its purity. Sulphurated hydrogen gives to water the 
taste and odor of rotten eggs; still the water is not injurious. 

Soluble mineral salts, when found in water, render it injurious. 
The salts of lead often give rise to serious symptoms, among 
which are colic, gout, rheumatism, kidney disease, paralysis, blind- 
ness and even insanity. The troubles arising are often obscure, 
and we are at a loss to account for the phenomena until lead is de- 
tected in the water which the patient drinks. It is a very simple 
matter to test for lead in water. Add a little tincture of cochineal, 
and, if a minute quantity of lead is present, the water will be 
turned blue. 

In a similar manner we test for other injurious substances. The 
presence of chlorides is shown by a white precipitate on adding a 
solution of silver nitrate to a small quantity of water. Chlorides 
in water show that it is contaminated with urine. Ammonia is 
tested for by Nossler's solution prepared as follows : Dissolve five 
hundred and fifty grains of potassium iodide in five ounces of dis- 
tilled water, also two hundred and twenty grains of mercurine 
chloride in five ounces of distilled water ; make the whole up to 



THE FAMILY. 669 



twenty ounces with distilled water. On adding this solution to the 
water to be tested, a brownish precipitate will be formed if ammo- 
nia is present. So delicate is this test that with it we can detect 
one part of ammonia in one million parts of water. 

The presence of alkali is proved if on dipping a piece of blue 
bitmus paper, tinged slightly red by being dipped in dilute vine- 
gar into the water, the color is restored to blue. Pure water is 
translucent, colorless, without odor, tasteless and cool enough to 
be palatable. Ice water should be avoided, as it is apt to disturb 

digestion. , 

i « \n adult takes into the system daily, through lungs and mouth, 
ei-ht and a quarter pounds of dry food, water, and air necessary 
for respiration. The same amount is given off as waste through 
the pores, lungs, kidneys, and intestines. Life and activity con- 
sume this amount as fuel just as a lamp consumes oil. Every 
movement, every breath, every heart-beat, every thought burns up 
a certain amount of fuel-material, and if the supply is not forth- 
coming, the machinery stops and death ensues. The better the oil 
the more perfect the light; and the more perfectly the food is 
adapted to its wants, the more vigorous the body, and the more 
perfect the working of its intricate machinery of muscle, nerve, 

and brain. 

« ' Food is first masticated and then digested. In mastication it is 
not only moistened with saliva, but acted upon chemically in pre- 
paration for the more vigorous and thorough work of the stomach. 
It is a mistake to suppose that water or any of the various drinks 
taken at table are a substitute for saliva. They not only do not 
prepare food for the stomach, but force it into the stomach unpre- 
pared, and, besides, retard digestion by delaying the process until 
the water can be absorbed into the blood. For these reasons drinks 
should precede or follow a meal. Bread crusts and hard and firm 
food are wholesome, principally because they must be thoroughly 
masticated before swallowing. 

"When the food reaches the stomach it rouses into action, the 
gastric juice pours from hundreds of little points, the food is dilu- 
ted and the more solvent parts dissolved, to be taken up by the 
thousands of little mouths which honeycomb the surface, and car- 



(i70 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

ried into the circulation to repair the waste of tissues. The oily 
portions of food, and such as do not yield to the action of the gas- 
tric juice, pass on and are subjected to the influence of the bile and 
pancreatic fluid, until all that is of value is absorbed, while the 
waste is rejected and passes off. 

' < Food has chiefly two offices to perform : the repair of muscular 
waste, and the supply of the body with fuel to keep its heat up to 
98°. Each of these is indispensable to health and strength. The 
chief part of what we eat is used by the lungs for fuel ; the rest, 
excepting small portions of mineral substances, such as lime, pot- 
ash, sulphur, etc. , goes to the production of muscular and brain 
force. The great secret in the preparation of food that will pro- 
long life and maintain a high state of health, is to adapt it to the 
peculiar conditions of those to be fed — age, occupation, climate, 
and season to be considered. Variety of food is nearly always at 
hand ; knowledge only is necessary to choose that best adapted to 
present needs. 

< ' The heat of the body is produced by the action of the lungs, 
which uses up the heat-producing food, as action of muscle or brain 
consumes the muscle-making material. The former is non-nitro- 
genous ; the latter nitrogenous. Foods ma}' be divided into three 
groups : the nitrogenous, in which nitrogen is the chief element, 
and which feed muscle only ; the non-nitrogenous, chiefly carbon, 
which produce heat only; and those in which both are united." 

Always rest before and after a hearty meal. Use good, palata- 
ble food, not highly seasoned ; vary in quantity according to age, 
climate, season, weather and occupation. Unbolted or partially 
bolted grains are good, and often sufficient food for man, but na- 
ture craves a variety, and, in a majority of instances, animal food 
is essential to good nutrition. Masticate the food well. Avoid 
drinking large quantities of any liquid with meals. 

Three full meals daily are customary, but the number, relative 
quantity and quality, and ^he intervals between them, are largely 
matters of opinion, habit and convenience ; regularity is the im- 
portant thing. 

Eat in pure air and in pleasant company. Do not allow business 
matters to interfere with the enjoyment of meals. Banish care. Be 



THE FAMILY. 671 

merry. Avoid eating between meals ; tobacco ; alcohol in all 
forms ; stimulants ; highly spiced foods ; rich pastry ; strong tea 
and coffee ; and too great a variety at one time. 

Colds are often, if not generally, the result of debility, and are 
preceded by disordered digestion. Such cases are prevented by 
removal of the cause, bj^ diet and pure air. Extreme cold or heat, 
and sudden exposure to cold by passing from a heated room to 
cold outside air, are injurious to the old or weak. All such should 
avoid great extremes and sudden changes. In passing from heated 
assemblies to the cold air, the mouth should be kept closed, and 
the breathing done through the nostrils only, so that the cold air 
may be warmed before reaching the lungs, which have just been 
immersed in a hot-air bath. 

Many of the colds which people are said to catch commence at 
the feet. Keep the feet dry and warm. Boots and shoes, when 
they fit closely, press against the foot and prevent a free circula- 
tion of blood. Loosely fitting shoes, while more comfortable, ad- 
mit of free circulation of the blood and the place between the 
leather and the stockings is filled with a comfortable supply of 
warm air. 

The lungs should be trained to free, full and vigorous action. 
It is a common fault to breathe from the surface of the lungs only, 
not bringing into play the abdominal muscles, and so not filling 
the more remote air cells of the lungs. By this defective action of 
the lungs the system is deprived of a part of its supply of air, and 
by inaction the air-cells become diseased. The practice of allow- 
ing the lungs only improper food, in the form of vitiated air, is 
one of the most prevalent habits of civilized life and it is one of 
the most potent causes of serious lung disease. Pure air and plenty 
of it, day and night, is what is demanded. 

One of the most prominent writers on health topics says : "The 
great practical lesson which I wish to inculcate, to be engraven as 
on a plate of steel, on the memory of children and youth, young 
men and women, the mature and the gray-headed, is : allow noth- 
ing short of fire or endangered life to induce 3-011 to resist, for one 
single moment, nature's alvine call. So far from refusing a call 
for any reason short of life and death, you should go at the usual 



672 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

time and solicit, and doing so you will have your reward in a de- 
gree of healthfulness, and in a length of life, which very few are 
ever permitted to enjoy. If the love of health and life, or the fear 
of inducing painful disease cannot induce you to adopt the plan I 
have recommended, there is another argument which, to young 
gentlemen and young ladies, may appear more convincing — per- 
sonal cleanliness. (If you suffer yourself to become and remain 
costive, you will be offensive ; the breath of a costive child even is 
scarcely to be endured.) Cold feet, sick headache, piles, fistula, 
these with other diseases, have their foundationsdaid in constipa- 
tion, which itself is infallibly induced by resisting nature's first 
calls. Header, let it be your wisdom never to do it again. " 

Avoid quack doctors and quack nostrums ; both are humbugs. 
If you are in need of a physician call one and follow his direc- 
tions. 

The world is full of specialistic pretenders. They are floating 
from place to place, flooding the country with startling announce- 
ments of bogus cures, trusting to the ignorance of the public for 
their patronage. They should be avoided as you would avoid a 
pestilence. They have no interest in your welfare ; all they want 
is your money. If yon will but remember that there are really 
no specifics in medicines, that each case must be individualized and 
treated according to the special conditions present, it will readily 
be seen how absolutely foolish and false are the claims of the vast 
numbers of cure-alls offered. 

CARE OF THE SICK. 

The sick room should be the lightest, most cheerful, and best 
ventilated room in the house. Patients in the sunny wards of hos- 
pitals recover soonest, and the sick, in nearly all cases, lie with 
their faces to the light. Everything should be kept in perfect 
neatness and order. Matting is better than a carpet, though, when 
the latter is used, it may be kept clean by throwing damp tea 
leaves over a part of the room at a time, and quietly brushing them 
up with a hand broom. A table not liable to injury, a small wicker 
basket with compartments to hold the different bottles of medi- 
cine and a small book in which to write the physician's directions, 
two baskets made on the same plan to hold glasses or cups, screens 



THE FAMILY. 673 

to shade the light from the eyes of the patient, a nursery lamp 
with which to heat water, beef-tea, etc. , a quill tied on the door- 
handle with which the nurse can notify others that the patient is 
asleep by merely passing the feather-end through the keyhole, and 
air pillows and "ring cushions" to give relief to patients compelled 
to lie continually in one position, are a few of the conveniences for 
the sick room. Ring cushions are circular pieces of old linen sewed 
together and stuffed with bran. Pads may be made of cotton-batting 
basted into pieces of old muslin for a sick couch or chair. 

Pure air in a sick room is of the utmost importance. The poi- 
soned body is desperately trying to throw off, through lungs, skin, 
and in every possible way, noxious materials, and thus relieve the 
system. Bad air, and dirty or saturated bedclothes, increase 
the difficulty at the very time when the weakened powers need all 
the help they can get. Avoid air from the kitchen or close closets. 
Outside air is the best, but, when cool, there should be a fire in the 
room to take off the chill. A cold is rarely taken in bed, with the 
covers well tucked in, but often in getting out of a warm bed when 
the skin is relaxed. Anything like a "chill" should be avoided, 
and it is not well to allow a draft or current of air to pass directly 
over the bed of the patient. 

A good way to secure a suppl}" of fresh air, without a draft, is 
to have a board five or six inches wide, and as long as the width 
of the window ; raise the lower sash, place the board under it, and 
the fresh air finds its way in between the sash b}* an upward cur- 
rent. 

In disease less heat is produced by the body than in health. This 
decline occurs even in summer, and is usually most evident in the 
early morning, when the vital powers slacken, the food of the pre- 
vious day having been exhausted. The sick should be watched be- 
tween midnight and ten or eleven in the morning, and if any de- 
cline in heat is noticed, use hot water bags or jugs. A sick room 
should, above all, be quiet. Avoid any rustling sound, such as 
that of a silk dress or shoes which creak. If it is necessary to put 
coal on the fire, drop it on quietly in small paper sacks, or in pa- 
per slightly dampened. Visitors should rarely be admitted to a 
sick room. The necessary attendants are a sufficient annoyance to 



674 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

a weak patient', and many a tombstone might truthfully and appro- 
priately be inscribed, "Talked to death by well-meaning friends." 
It is not generally the loudness of a noise that disturbs the sick, 
but the sound that produces expectation of something. Some can- 
not bear any noise. Anything that suddenly awakens is injurious. 
Never awaken a sleeping patient unless ordered to do so by the 
ph} r sician. In sickness, the brain is weakened with the rest of the 
body, and sleep strengthens it. If rest is interrupted soon after 
it is begun, the brain is weakened so much the more, and the pa- 
tient becomes irritable and wakeful. If sleep lasts longer, he falls 
asleep again more readily. Never speak within the hearing of the 
sick in tones which cannot be fully understood. An occasional 
word, or murmur of conversation, or whisper, is intolerable, and 
occasions needless apprehension. 

Few persons have any idea of the exquisite neatness necessary 
in a sick room. What a well person might endure with impunit}', 
may prove fatal to a weak patient. The bed and bedding should 
be scrupulously clean. In most diseases the functions of the skin 
are disordered, and the clothing becomes saturated with foul per- 
spiration. Sheets which are used should be dried often, either in the 
sun or by the fire, and the mattress and blanket next the sheets 
should be carefully aired as often as possible. In changing very 
sick patients (particularly women after confinement) the sheets and 
clothes should be well aired by hanging by the fire for hours. Move 
the patient close to one side of the bed, turn the under sheet over 
close to the invalid, then smooth the mattress, removing anything 
that may be on it. Make ready the clean sheet, by rolling one-half 
into a round roll ; lay this close by the invalid, spreading the other 
half smoothly over the bed. Move the patient on the clean sheet, 
unroll and spread over the other side of the bed. Have the upper 
sheet ready, lay it on carefully and gently, then add the other 
clothes. In dressing a blister, where a bandage has to be placed 
around the body, roll one-half the bandage, place it under the in- 
valid, so that the attendant at the other side can reach it, unrolling, 
and placing it around the patient without disturbing him. Light 
blankets are best for coverings. Never use cotton counterpanes 
and comforters. The clothing should be as light as possible with 



THE FAMILY. 675 

the requisite warmth. The bed should be low, and placed in the 
light, and as a rule the pillows should be low, so as to give the 
lungs free play. Scrofula is sometimes caused by children sleep- 
ing with their heads under the clothing, and patients sometimes 
acquire that injurious habit. 

Bathing should be done under the advice of a careful physician, 
but soap and water are great restoratives. In most cases, washing 
and drying the skin gives great relief. Care should be taken, 
while sponging and cleansing, not to expose much surface at a time, 
so as to check perspiration. The physician will regulate the tem- 
perature. Whenever the bath is followed by a sense of oppres- 
sion, it has done harm. Its effect should be comfort and relief. 

Chamber utensils should be emptied and thoroughly cleansed 
immediately after using, and in no case allowed to remain standing 
in the sick room. Slop jars, into which nothing should be allow- 
ed to go except the waste water from the wash-stand, must be emp- 
tied and cleansed thoroughl}-, at least twice a day. 

It is well for both nurse and patient to remember that nothing re- 
lieves nausea or vomiting sooner than drinking hot water in as 
great quantity, and as hot as possible. Placing the hands in hot 
water up to the wrists, dipping a flannel in hot water and laying 
five or six folds thick on any pained part, will relieve suffering 
more promptly than all the pain killers in the world. Cover the 
wet flannel with a dry one, the edges extending over the wet one an 
inch or more. In five minutes, slip the wet flannel out and put in 
its place another as hot as can be handled, taking care to let as 
little cold air as possible touch the skin over which the hot flannel 
has been applied. When pain is relieved, put on towels wet in 
cool water and cover with flannel ; leave for an hour or more, re- 
move and wipe drj% rubbing vigorously. These hot applications 
often relieve a violent, dry cough in a few minutes, and will cure 
some forms of croup in half an hour. 

Patients are often killed by kindness. A spoonful of improper 
food, or the indulgence of some whim, may prove fatal. Observe 
the physician's directions with the strictest fidelity. Medicines and 
things which will be wanted during the night should be prepared 
before the patient grows sleepy. Everything should be done 



676 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

quickly but quietly, and with precision. In talking, sit where the 
patient can see you without turning his head. Never ask ques- 
tions when he is doing anything, and never lean or sit upon the 
bed. Sick persons generally prefer to be told airything rather than 
to have it read to them. A change in the ornaments of the room 
is a great relief, and the sick especially enjoy bright and beautiful 
things. Flowers, which do not have a pungent odor, are a great de- 
light. 

In convalescence great care is necessary, and the physician's di- 
rections should be implicitly obeyed, especially in regard to diet ; 
failure in obedience often brings on a relapse. Little food at a 
time and often repeated, is the general rule for the sick. A table- 
spoonful of beef tea, eveiy half hour, will be digested, when a cup- 
ful every three or four hours will be rejected. In giving a drink 
or liquid of any kind,* a moustache cup or a pap boat is a great con- 
venience. The sick can rarely take solid food before eleven inthe 
morning, and a spoonful of beef tea, given every hour or two, re- 
lieves exhaustion. Brandy, whisky, or other alcoholic stimulants, 
however, should never be ordered in cases where there is a heredi- 
tary tendency to use them, or where they have been used as a bev- 
erage, or where the associations of the patient in the future would 
be likely to make an acquired taste a temptation. In most cases 
substitutes may readily be found. Untouched food should never 
be left at the bedside. Every meal should be a surprise. Food 
for the sick must be of the best quality, and neatly and delicately 
prepared. Keep the cup and saucer dry, so that no drops will 
fall on the bed or clothing. 

As far as possible it should be made the duty of one person to 
care for a particular case, as there is less liability of confusion in 
taking orders and giving the medicines, where one has entire 
charge. It is also better for the patient, for he soon learns to trust 
to the nurse's judgment and throws off all care or personal respon- 
sibility. 

Do not forget that cheerfulness, kindness and tenderness are es- 
sential to careful nursing. Cheerfulness inspires hope, thus aiding 
recovery. Everything of a desponding nature should be kept out 
of the sick room. A nurse must never be impatient. A sick per- 



THE FAMILY. 677 

son is often irritable and sometimes obstinate, but this must be 
overcome by kindness and firmness. Do not omit any little atten- 
tion that will add to the comfort of the sick. If turning the pil- 
lows, or a sip of water, or brushing the teeth with a soft cloth 
moistened with lemon water please the patient, do it by all means. 
Avoid jarring the bed, and do not allow anyone to sit there. Avoid 
haste. Do things quickly by knowing what to do and how to do 
them. All appearance of haste and uncertainty is annoying to the 
sick one. The nurse should watch the patient carefully to see that 
his wants are supplied. 

Sleeplessness and restlessness are due to a variety of causes. If 
occurring in the early hours of the night, it is probably due to ner- 
vous excitement and would be increased by stimulants ; but if oc- 
curring in the early morning hours, it is due to exhaustion and 
some food or stimulant will relieve it. 

The duties of the nurse must, from necessity, be governed by the 
nature and requirements of the case in hand. What is required 
for one case may not be required, or might prove injurious, in an- 
other. Remember that the names of diseases are only relatively 
correct ; the condition of the patient and symptoms present are the 
points to be noted, and to which the course of treatment is to be 
adapted. 

Every sick room should be provided with a good thermometer, 
and by it the room should be kept at a uniform temperature, 
about 70° Fahrenheit. It becomes our first duty to correct any in- 
sanitary conditions found to exist. Pure air, pure water, perfect 
drainage, absolute cleanliness, plenty of light and a sufficient 
quantity of good nutritious food may be considered as prime neces- 
sities in managing disease. The diet should be plain, simple and 
nutritious. Food easily digested is required, for the organs of di- 
gestion need rest as well as the body. Milk is an ideal food, since 
it contains all of the elements essential to nutrition, and, being in 
a liquid state, it is readily absorbed and assimilated. It is suita- 
ble as a diet in a great variety of cases. The various meat soups 
and teas are next in importance. The nutritious elements in beef 
tea are not as important as many suppose. It is more in the na- 
ture of a stimulant. It is estimated that from a pound of good 



678 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

beef, as ordinarily made into beef tea, only one-fourth of an ounce 
of nutritive substance is obtained. By many ph} r sicians beef tea 
is classed as a stimulant. Rectal alimentation is often required 
in conditions of great gastric irritability, or where the stomach is 
unable to take food or perform the work of digestion. 

Preparatory to giving a nutrient enema, the rectum must be emp- 
tied and washed out by an injection of clean, warm water. The solu- 
tion having been prepared, it is forced slowly with an ordinary bulb 
syringe, care being taken to throw it as high as possible. The in- 
jection should be repeated at intervals of two or three hours, using 
half a cupful at a time. The temperature of the enema should be 
about that of the body, 98° or 100° Fahrenheit. Warm milk, with 
a little salt in it, makes a simple and efficient enema. 

In cases where it is necessar} r to supply the system with fat, the 
following will be found useful : Chop fine a half pound of beef pan- 
creas ; cover this with water and allow it to stand for an hour in 
a warm place. Strain through a cloth. Mix an ounce of the liquor 
with half an ounce of pure cod liver oil and use as an enema. 

Beef tea makes an excellent enema, but before it is fit for ab- 
sorption, pepsin and muriatic acid must be added. The following 
preparation is recommended, and is a valuable one for the purpose : 
Take one pound of fresh, lean meat, cut it very fine ; soak it in 
one-third of a quart of cold water over night. In the morning, re- 
move the meat, saving the water in which it was soaked. Put the 
meat into two-thirds of a quart of water and let it simmer for two 
hours, keeping the water up to its original level by replacing what 
is lost by evaporation. Pour the beef broth into the cold liquor in 
which the beef was soaked, squeezing the meat as diy as possible. 
The meat which remains should be spread on a tin plate and dried 
in the oven. When dry, reduce to a powder in a mortar and add 
the powdered meat to the liquor. Thus all the elements of meat 
are obtained in a liquid form. Add a little salt, twenty drops of 
hydrochloric acid and three grains of pepsin, and it is ready for 
use. 

Instead of using it as an enema, it may be made into supposi- 
tories in the following manner: Take a quantity of the whole beef 
tea ; set the basin containing it in another vessel of hot water on 



THE FAMILY. 679 

the stove, and evaporate the water from the beef tea until it be- 
comes of a creanry consistency. Add an equal quantity of cocoa 
butter, melt both together, pour into a dish and allow the mixture to 
cool and solidify. With a warm knife, cut it into pieces and shape 
like a pigeon's egg. These suppositories, introduced into the rec- 
tum, will afford nourishment to the system in the neatest and clean- 
est way in which artificial alimentation can be practiced. 

Disinfectants and Antiseptics. — An antiseptic is a substance 
that prevents decay in material that is liable to undergo decompos- 
ition. Sugar, salt, vinegar, alcohol, smoke, heat and cold, are fam- 
iliar domestic examples ; while in surgery we have listerine, carbolic 
acid, corrosive sublimate, iodoform, boracic acid, and other substan- 
ces in common use. 

A disinfectant is a substance that destroys germs after they have 
been formed, and renders inert that which produces decomposition 
or disease. All disinfectants are antiseptics, and all antiseptics, 
if sufficiently concentrated, or used in large quantities, are disin- 
fectants. 

Among the disinfectants for general use may be mentioued : 
Copperas; cheap, easily obtained, readily prepared, and good for 
many purposes. Used in the proportion of two pounds to the pail- 
ful of water, it makes a good solution for water-closets, cesspools, 
vaults and catch basins. Chloride of zinc is excellent for use in 
house drains, bedpans, and vessels used about the sick room. The 
proportion is half a pound to the gallon of water. Corrosive sub- 
limate, one part of the salt to one thousand parts of water, is one of 
the best disinfectants known. It can be used for an}- purpose where 
a disinfectant is needed, but being a dangerous poison, it should 
be handled with care. Carbolic acid has to be used quite strong 
to be effective. For night vessels, sinks, water-closets, etc. , use 
two ounces of acid to a quart of water. Quicklime, or unslacked 
lime, is very useful to scatter about in. damp places, as cellars; 
under outbuildings or sidewalks, also in vaults. Chloride of lime 
is more effective, but its disagreeable odor makes it undesirable. 
Charcoal is an excellent disinfectant and deodorant. Piatt's chlo- 
rides and the sanitas preparations are useful and effective in the 
sick room. Directions for using accompany each bottle. Ozone, 



680 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

formed by mixing two parts of the permanganate of potash and 
three parts of strong sulphuric acid in an open vessel, gives an 
invigorating quality to the air of a sick room. Dry scales of 
iodine, placed in saucers, prove effective in destroying offensive 
odors. Corrosive substances must be handled with care. 

Sulphuric or hydrochloric acid, diluted with double the quantity 
of water, should be mixed in equal proportions with the excreta 
of ty phoicl -fever patients, and the mass allowed to stand several 
hours, that complete disinfection may be insured. 

For soiled clothing, a solution of sulphate of zinc, one pound, 
carbolic acid, two ounces, and four gallons of water, may be used. 
Keep a tubf ul of this solution near the sick room, and place in it 
all soiled bed linen and clothing. Afterward, a thorough boiling 
will effectually destroy all disease germs. Fumigation is an effect- 
ual .method of rendering aseptic every nook and corner where dis- 
ease germs may lurk. The most efficacious substance is sulphur. 
The method of use, as recommended by the Chicago board of 
health, is as follows : 

"Have all the windows, fireplaces, flues, keyholes, doors and 
other openings securely closed by pasting strips of paper over them. 
Then, in a washtub, containing an inch of water, put a dish of live 
coals, supported on brick. Upon these throw three or four pounds 
of sulphur." Do not stay to see it burn. "All living things 
should be removed, and care taken to arrange bedding, etc. , so as to 
secure a thorough exposure to the fumes. After twenty -four hours 
the rooms may be opened and aired." 

FOOD FOR THE SICK. 

Strawberry Acid. — Take three pounds of ripe strawberries, 
two ounces of citric acid, and one quart of water ; dissolve the acid 
in the water, and pour it over the berries ; let them stand in a cool 
place twenty-four hours ; draw off, and pour in three pounds more 
of berries, and let it stand twenty-four hours. Add to the liquor 
its own weight of sugar, boil three or four minutes each day for 
three da}^, then cork tightly and seal. Keep in a dry and cool 
place. 

Beefsteak. — Broil steak, from one-half to an inch thick, care- 
fully over the coals, and turn often. Lay on a plate. Season with 



THE FAMILY 681 

salt, a little butter, if allowed, and serve hot. The inside of a po- 
tato, roasted in the ashes and dressed with sweet cream, is a deli- 
cate accompaniment. 

Raw Beef. — Chop fresh, lean beef, the best steak or roast, very 
fine, sprinkle with salt and pepper, and put between thin slices of 
buttered graham or white bread. This is very nutritious. For 
Children. — Free half a pound of juicy beef from any fat ; mince it 
very finely ; rub it into a smooth pulp either in a mortar or with an 
ordinary potato masher, and press it through a fine sieve. Spread 
a little upon a plate and sprinkle over it salt or sugar. Give it 
alone or spread upon a buttered slice of stale bread. An excellent 
food for children having dysentery. 

Oatmeal Blancmange. — Stir two heaping tablespoonfuls of 
oatmeal into a little cold water, beat into a quart of boiling milk, 
flavor and pour into moulds to cool. Serve with cream or jelly. 

Beep Broth. — Cut one pound of good lean beef in small pieces ; 
boil slowly in two quarts of cold water, keeping it well covered one and 
one-half hours ; then add half a teacupf ul of tapioca, which has 
been soaked three-quarters of an hour in water enough to cover, 
and boil half an hour longer. Some add, with the tapioca, a small 
bit of parsley, and a slice or two of onion. Strain before serving, 
seasoning slightly with pepper and salt. Just before serving, a 
soft poached egg may be added. Rice may be used instead of 
tapioca ; strain the broth, add one or two tablespoonfuls of rice 
soaked for a short time and boil half an hour. 

Chicken Broth. — Take the first and second joints of a chicken, 
simmer in one quart of water until very tender, and season with a 
little salt and pepper. 

Mutton Broth. — Boil slowly two pounds of mutton in two 
quarts of cold water; add one tablespoonful of rice washed carefully. 
Cook till the meat leaves the bone, and the rice is a liquid mass. 
Take from the fire, season with a little salt, and strain. If for a 
patient with flux leave on all the fat. 

For chicken broth, take a chicken the size of a quail and prepare 
as above. 

Mulled Buttermilk. — Boil good buttermilk, and add the well- 
beaten yolk of an egg. Let boil up and serve. Or, stir into boil- 



682 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

ing buttermilk a thickening of cold buttermilk and flour. This is 
excellent for convalescing patients. 

Oatmeal Cakes. — Take equal parts of fine oatmeal and salted 
water ; mix ; pour into a pan till one-third of an inch deep ; bake 
half an hour, or until crisp and slightly brown ; or, make half an 
inch thick and bake soft like a Johnny cake ; or, if the oven is not 
hot enough to bake, pour into a frying pan, cover it and bake it on 
the top of the stove, serving it when brown on the bottom. It is 
not good cold. If any be left, warm it up and it is almost as good 
as new. 

Broiled Chicken, Quail, Squirrel or Woodcock. — Any of 
these must be tender. Take the breast of the first two, or 
the thighs of the others ; place on hot coals or on a broiler, turn- 
ing often to prevent burning. When done, butter, salt, and serve 
immediately on a hot plate. 

Crust Coffee. — Toast bread very brown, pour on boiling water, 
crush and strain ; add cream, sugar, and nutmeg, if desired. 

Blackberry Cordial. — Put half a bushel of blackberries in a 
preserving kettle and scald well ; strain and press out all the juice; 
put the juice in the kettle with the following spices well broken in a 
bag : one-quarter pound of allspice, two ounces of cinnamon bark, 
two ounces of cloves, and two nutmegs ; add loaf sugar, one pound 
to every quart of juice or a little more, and cook slowly fifteen 
minutes. A smaller quantity may be made, using the same pro- 
portions. This is an excellent remedy for diarrhoea and dysentery. 

Oatmeal Crackers. — Wet one pint of fine oatmeal with one 
gill of water ; work with a spoon until it can be made up into a 
mass ; place on a board well covered with dry oatmeal ; make as 
compact as possible and roll out carefully one-sixth of an inch thick 
and cut into squares. Bake in a very slow oven, or merely scald 
and then let them stand until they dry out. These are difficult to 
make at first, but one soon learns to handle the dough and to watch 
the oven so that they will not scorch. They are excellent for all 
the purposes of crackers, and if kept dry, or packed in oatmeal, 
will last good for months. This is one form of the Scotch "ban- 
nock. " A rich addition is two heaping tablespoonf uls of ground 
dessicated cocoanut. 



THE FAMILY. 683 

Arrowroot Custard. — One tablespoonf ul of arrowroot, one 
pint of milk, one egg, two tablespoonf uls of sugar ; mix the arrow- 
root with a little of the cold milk ; put the rest of the milk on the fire; 
boil, and stir in the arrowroot, egg and sugar, well beaten together ; 
scald, flavor and pour into cups to cool. 

Sago Custard. — Soak two tablespoonf uls of sago in a tumbler 
of water for an hour ; boil in the same water until clear, and add 
a tumbler of sweet milk ; when it boils, add sugar, a beaten egg, 
and flavoring. 

Fever Drink. — Pour cold water on wheat bran, let it boil half 
an hour, strain and add sugar and lemon juice. Pour boiling wa- 
ter on flaxseed and let it stand until mucilaginous ; pour into hot 
lemonade and drink. 

Sassafras Drink. — Break the pith of sassafras boughs in small 
pieces and soak in cold water till the water becomes glutinous. 

Whipped Egg. — Break a fresh egg into a cup ; beat thoroughly ; 
add two teaspoonf uls of sugar, two tablespoonfuls of boiling water, 
beating meanwhile, two tablespoonfuls of sweet cream and a little 
grated nutmeg. This is nourishing and pleasant, and the boiling 
water destro} T s the raw tasie of the egg. 

Sea-moss Farina. —Take a dessertspoonful of sea-moss farina 
and a quart of boiling water ; steep a few minutes, sweeten and fla- 
vor with lemon juice. This is pleasant and good for colds. 

Prepared Flour or Flour Balls. — Take a double handful of 
flour, tie up tightly in cloth and put in a kettle of boiling water; 
boil from three to six hours, take out, remove the cloth, and you 
will have a hard, round ball. Peel off and throw away the thin rind 
of dough, cover with fine wire netting and diy for twenty-four hours. 
Keep in a wooden box in a cool place, and the driest one in the 
house. When wanted for use, boil sweet, new milk and grate into 
it enough flour from the ball to make it as thick as 3 r ou desire, stir- 
ring it just before removing from the stove with a stick of cinnamon; 
this gives it a pleasant flavor ; put a little salt into the milk. Very 
good for children having summer complaint. For children who are 
constipated, use bran meal or unbolted flour instead of white flour, 
preparing as above directed. Instead of cinnamon stick, grate a 
little nutmeg into the milk. 



684 HOUSEKEEPER COOKtBOOK. 

Old-fashioned Food for Convalescents. — Roast good potatoes 
in hot ashes and coals ; when done, put in a coarse cloth and squeeze 
with the hand, and take out the inside on a plate. Put a slice of 
nice pickled pork on a stick three or four feet long, hold before a 
wood fire until it cooks slightly, then dip into a pan of water and let 
it drip on the potato to season it ; repeat until the meat is nicely 
cooked on one side, then turn the other, dip in water, etc. When 
broiled, place on a plate beside the potato, serve with a slice of toast 
dressed with hot water and a little vinegar and salt, or sweet cream 
instead of vinegar. A cupful of sage tea, made by pouring boil- 
ing water on a few leaves of sage and allowing it to stand a few 
minutes, served with cream and sugar, or crust coffee, or any herb 
tea, is good. Food prepared in this way obviates the use of butter. 

Graham Gems for Invalids. — Mix Graham flour with half 
milk and half water, add a little salt, beat thoroughly, it will not 
be good unless well beaten, making the batter thin enough to pour; 
have the gem pan ver}* hot, grease it, fill as quickly as possible and 
bake in a hot oven thirty minutes. Practice will teach the proper 
consistenc}' of the batter, and the best temperature of the oven. 

Cornmeal Gruel. — Add to three pints of boiling water two 
tablespoonfuls of cornmeal, stirred in a little cold water; add a 
pinch of salt and cook thirty minutes. For very sick persons, let 
it settle, pour off the top, and give without other seasoning. For 
convalescents, toast a piece of bread nicely, and put in the gruel 
with one or two tablespoonfuls of sweet cream, a little sugar and 
ginger, or nutmeg and cinnamon. When a laxative diet is allowed, 
this is very nourishing. Or, take a pint of meal, pour over it a quart 
or more of cold water, stir up, let settle a moment, and pour off the 
water ; repeat this three times, then put the washed meal into three 
quarts of cold water, and place where it will boil ; cook three hours, 
and when done add a pinch of salt. This is a very delicate way of 
cooking, and it may be eaten with or without other seasoning. 

Egg Gruel. — Beat the yolk of an egg with a tablespoonful of 
sugar, beat the white separately ; add a teacupful of boiling water 
to the yolk, then stir in the white, and add any seasoning ; good 
for a cold. 

Oatmeal Gruel. — Stir two heaping tablespoonfuls of oatmeal 



THE FAMILY. 685 

in one quart of cold water till it commences to boil ; cook one 
hour, stirring occasional!}- ; do not let it scorch ; season with salt, 
sugar, and any spice desired. For infants and very sick patients, 
strain but do not salt. 

Jellice. — Beat well one-half teaspoonful of currant, lemon or 
cranberry jelly with two tablespoonfuls of water, and fill the glass 
with ice water. 

Rice Jelly. — Mix one heaping tablespoonful of rice flour with 
cold water to a smooth paste, add a scant pint of boiling water, 
sweeten with loaf sugar ; boil until clear. If the jelly is intended 
for a patient with summer complaint, stir with a stick of cinna- 
mon ; if for one with fever, flavor with lemon juice. Rice water 
is made by using twice the quantity of boiling water. 

Tapioca Jelly. — One-half pint of tapioca, one quart of water, 
juice and some of the grated rind of a lemon ; soak the tapioca 
for three or four hours in the water, sweeten it and boil for one 
hour in a custard-kettle, or until quite clear, stirring it often. 
When almost done, stir in the lemon, and when sufficiently 
cooked, pour into moulds. Serve with sweetened cream. 

To Make Kumyss. — Take three quarts of good, rich, new milk 
and one quart of hot water, in which one-half pint of sugar is dis- 
solved; when this mixture is lukewarm add three tablespoonfuls of 
hop yeast ; set in a moderately warm place, stir often, and when it 
begins to sparkle (which will be in about one and a half hours), 
put it into strong bottles and cork tightly; keep in a cool place and 
in eight hours it will be ready for use. Draw through a champagne 
tap. 

Meat for Invalids. — The following method of rendering raw 
meat palatable to invalids is given by good authority: To 8.7 
ounces of raw meat, from the loin, add 2. 6 ounces shelled sweet 
almonds, .17 ounces shelled bitter almonds, and 2.8 ounces white 
sugar — these to be beaten together in a marble mortar to a uniform 
pulp, and the fibers separated by a strainer. The pulp, which has 
a rosy hue, and a very agreeable taste, may be kept fresh for some 
time, even in summer, in a dry, cool place. Yolk of egg may be 
added to it. From this pulp, or directly from the above substance, 
an emulsion may be prepared which is rendered more nutritious 
by adding milk. 



68b' HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

Baked Milk. — Bake two quarts of milk for eight or ten hours 
in a moderate oven, in a jar covered with writing paper, tied down. 
It will then be as thick as cream, and may be used by weak persons. 

Orangeade. — Take of dilute sulphuric acid, concentrated infu- 
sion of orange peel, each twelve drachms ; of syrup of orange peel, 
five fluid ounces ; add two imperial gallons of water. Drink a large 
wineglassful at a time. It is an excellent summer beverage for 
the South, and is an antiseptic and anti-diarrhoea remedy. 

Panada. — Take two of the richest crackers, pour on boiling 
water, let stand a few minutes, beat up an egg, sweeten to taste, 
and stir all together ; grate in nutmeg. 

Milk Porridge. — Place on the stove one pint of new sweet 
milk and a very little pinch of salt ; when it boils, sprinkle sifted 
flour with one hand into the boiling milk, stirring all the while. 
Add flour until of the consistency of thick molasses ; eat warm with 
a little butter and sugar. Or, mix the flour with a little cold milk 
until a smooth paste, and then stir into the boiled milk. Or, break 
an egg into the dry flour, rub it with the hands until it is all in 
fine crumbs (size of a grain of wheat), and stir into the boiling 
milk. Excellent for summer complaint. 

Oatmeal Pie Crust. — Make like the dough for crackers, but 
roll a little thinner. It bakes quickly, so that care must be taken 
not to scorch it in cooking the contents of the pie. It does ad- 
mirably for pies that require but one crust, and is just the thing 
for those who do not think pastry wholesome. One can eat it as 
so much oatmeal mush and fruit sauce. 

Cracked Wheat Pudding. — To one quart of new milk add one- 
third cupful each of cracked wheat, sugar, a little salt and a small 
piece of stick cinnamon. Bake in a moderate oven two hours or 
more. When half done stir in the crust already formed. When 
done the wheat will be very soft, and the pudding of a cream} T 
consistency. Serve hot or cold. A handful of raisins added is an 
improvement. 

Sago Jelly Pudding. — Wash thoroughly oneteacupful of sago, 
cook it till perfectly clear in three pints of water, adding a very lit- 
tle salt; stir in half a glass of currant, grape, or other jelly, and 
a little sugar. Mould and serve cold with cream and sugar. 



THE FAMILY. 687 

Raspberry Relish. — To each pint of clear berry juice add one 
pound of sugar ; boil ten minutes and bottle for use. 

Parched Rice. — Cook, in a custard kettle, half a cupful of 
parched rice in one pint of boiling salted water ; when done serve 
with cream and sugar. 

Cream Soup. — One pint of boiling water, half a teacupful of 
cream ; add broken pieces of toasted bread and a little salt. 

Vegetable Soup. — Two tomatoes, two potatoes, two onions, 
and one tablespoonf ul of rice; boil the whole in one quart of water 
one hour. Sift, season, dip dry toast in this till quite soft, and eat ; 
this may be used when animal food is not allowed. 

Currant Shrub. — Make the same as jelly; when cool, bottle and 
cork tight. Raspberry, strawberry, and blackberry shrubs are 
made in the same way. Dilute with two-thirds water in using. 

Beep Tea Soup. — To one pint of hot beef essence made in a jar, 
add a teacupful of the best cream, well heated, into which the yolk 
of a fresh egg has been previously stirred ; mix caref ulry together, 
season slightly, and serve. 

Buttermilk Stew. — Boil one pint of buttermilk; add a small 
lump of butter, and sugar, or a teaspoonf ul of ginger and hone} T in- 
stead of sugar. 

Oyster Stew. — Remove all bits of shell from half a dozen 
fresh oysters ; place in a colander, pour over a teacupful of water, 
drain ; put the liquor in a porcelain-lined saucepan, let come to a 
boil and skim well ; pour' off into another heated dish all except 
the sediment. Wipe out the saucepan, return the liquor with the 
oysters ; let come to the boiling point, add a small lump of good 
butter, a teaspoonful of cracker dust, a very little ca}-enne pepper, 
salt, and half a teacupful of fresh, sweet cream. 

Beep Tea. — Cut a pound of the best lean steak in small pieces, 
place in a glass fruit jar, cover tightly and set in a pot of cold water; 
heat gradually to aboil, and continue boiling steadily three or four 
hours, until the meat is like white rags and the juice thoroughly 
extracted ; season with very little salt, and strain through a wire 
strainer. Serve either warm or cold. To prevent the jar from top- 
pling over, tie a string around the top part and hang it over a stick 
laid across the top of the pot. When done, set the kettle off the 



688 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

stove and let it cool before removing the jar. Or, when beef tea is 
wanted for immediate use, place in a common pint bowl, add very 
little water, cover with a saucer, and place in a moderate oven ; if 
in danger of burning add a little more water, or pour off the liquid. 
To make beef tea more palatable, freeze it. Cut lean beef in small 
pieces, cover with water and set on the back of the stove where it 
will extract the juice from the meat without cooking. The liquid 
should be clear and strong. Salt to taste. 

Raw Beef Tea. — Cut up lean, fresh, meat, and soak eight or ten 
hours in a small quantity of cold water. This is good after severe 
cases of typhoid fever. 

Cinnamon Tea. — To a half-pint of fresh new milk add stick or 
ground cinnamon enough to flavor, and white sugar to taste ; bring 
to the boiling point, and take either warm or cold. Excellent for 
diarrhoea in adults or children. 

Good Toast. — Toast slices of bread without scorching, crush 
the outside, lay on a warm soup plate, cover with milk, or milk and 
cream ; sprinkle with a little salt. Cover all with a large bowl 
resting on the plate. Put this in a warm, not very hot oven, two 
or more hours. The milk will evaporate and its substance be con- 
densed in the toast, while the cover will keep the toast moist. A 
little butter may be eaten on it, though it is more delicate without. 

Raspberry Vinegar. — Pour one quart of best vinegar over two 
quarts of raspberries in a stone jar, let «tand twenty-four hours; 
strain, and pour liquor over two quarts of fresh fruit, and let stand 
as long ; allow one pound of sugar to a pint of juice ; put into a 
stone jar and set in boiling water one hour ; skim well, bottle, and 
seal tight. Dilute with water. 

Barley Water. — Add two ounces of pearl barley to half a pint 
of boiling water ; let simmer five minutes, drain and add two quarts 
of boiling water ; add two ounces of sliced figs, and two ounces of 
stoned raisins ; boil until reduced to a quart ; strain. 

Rice Water. — Wash four tablespoonfuls of rice; put it into 
two quarts of water ; boil down to one quart ; add sugar and a lit- 
tle nutmeg. A pint or half a pint of milk added to the rice water, 
before it is taken from the fire, gives a nourishing food suitable for 






THE FAMILY. 689 

cases of diarrhoea. Sago, tapioca, barley, or cracked corn can ba 
prepared in the same manner. 

Oatmeal Wafers. — Use equal parts water and oatmeal ; makti 
so thin that when done it will not be thicker than a knife-blade,, 
and almost transparent. Bake very slowly until quite dry, watch 
ing that it may not scorch. 

Alum Whey. — Mix half an ounce of powdered alum with ona 
pint of sweet milk ; strain and add sugar and nutmeg ; it is gooct 
in hemorrhages. 

Useful Knowledge. — To drop medicine without n dropper/ 
Shake the bottle to moisten the cork. With the wet end of tho 
cork moisten the edges of the mouth of the bottle, then, holding 
the cork under the mouth, let the fluid pass over the cork in drop- 
ping. A Self -holder for a /Spoon. — In dropping medicine into « 
spoon, place the handle between the leaves of a closed book lying om 
the table, and then both hands maybe used in dropping the mix. 
ture. To Prevent Wearing Through the Skin when Bedridden. — 
Apply to the tender parts of the body with a feather, a mixture 
made by beating to a strong froth the white of an egg, and dropping 
in while beating two teaspoonfuls of spirits of wine. Bottle fo«: 
use. 

Useful Articles For the Sickroom. — A rubber bag, hold, 
ing two quarts, but to be filled only half or two-thirds full of hot ov 
very cold water as required, so that it is flexible and useful; a pair 
of very long, loose stockings, knit of Saxony wool, or other soft 
yarn, without heels, to draw on towards morning in fever cases, or to 
keep the patient warm when she is up. Every housekeeper should 
also have these and a pair of felt shoes. 

THE NURSERY. 

This should be the sunniest, pleasantest room in the house. H 
possible let it occupy a southeast corner, and be arranged conven- 
iently and furnished simply. Finish the soft or hard wood fiooi 
in oil, and use rugs. These should be shaken daily to free them 
from dust. Wipe the floor frequently. 

Let the furniture be of light wood, and durably made. Hav* 
shades, not drapery curtains, at the windows, which should opt -' 



690 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

easily from the top and bottom. Give each child a separate bed ; 
use a basket or small crib for the baby until old enough for a 
larger one, or a single bed. The baby's sleep will be sweeter and 
more quiet, and the mother's rest more refreshing. 

Hang a few bright pictures on the wall ; though cheap, see that 
they are good ; arrange low bookshelves, and have a closet where the 
children may learn how to keep their playthings in order. Let 
each child have its own shelf or cupboard, but teach unselfishness 
and regard for others' rights, while respecting his own. 

If the mother's room must be the nursery, let her arrange it, as 
far as possible, in the same fashion. In some cases, it is possible 
to have a nursery with playroom adjoining; in most, however, one 
room is used for both purposes. Before bedtime, the children 
should go into another portion of the house, that the room or rooms 
be thoroughly aired b}' having the windows thrown open ; but the 
little ones must not come back till the air is warm. 

Keep in a little closet in the nursery or mother's room, and out 
of the children's way, a bandage roll, a little lint, plaster for cuts, 
a pair of scissors, a sponge, castile soap, sweet oil, listerine, Pond's 
Extract, camphor, carbolic acid, ammonia, arnica, vaseline, some 
simple salve and liniment. When needed they will be at hand. A 
cushion with threaded needles, pins and safety pins, and a thim- 
ble, should find a corner on the shelf. 

It should not be necessary to impress upon mothers the import- 
ance of constant and pleasant association with their children from 
birth. Be firm while gentle, loving while insisting on obedience, 
and sympathizing always. Hours for sleeping, eating, etc. , should 
be regular, but not at the expense of the child, or common sense. 
Do not rock the baby to sleep, but do not let it form the habit of 
crying itself to sleep ; neither are necessary. 

Let the habit of the mother be to care herself for the children 
morning and evening. Later on, she will find the evening hour 
with them productive of special confidence on their part, and of 
great assistance to her in understanding their individualities, and 
how best to guide and help them. 

Two of the best books for an expectant mother, which should 
be bought early in pregnancy, are Mrs. Jenness Miller's ' ' Mother 



THE FAMILY. 691 

and Babe," and "Tokology" by Alice B. Stockham, M. D. These 
inform as to personal care, diet, dress, exercise, preparations for 
confinement, and what should be done at birth, if physician or com- 
petent nurse is not present. With the first book come patterns 
for a baby's wardrobe and directions for making, as well as some 
for the mother's use. 

Where it is best to feed the baby, try cow's milk. If it is not 
assimilated, barley water, condensed milk, and " Prepared Foods " 
must be tried. Only sterilized milk should be used. This entails 
some work but it will be a source of health and may prevent death. 
A child using it rarely suffers from diarrhoea, constipation, or seri- 
ous derangement of the stomach. Of course it must be diluted 
according to the age of the child. That may be done with steri- 
lized water, or with fresh boiled water before sterilizing. Where 
a patent sterilizer is not at hand try this method. 

jln sterilization, the great thing is to keep the air excluded from 
the milk, for should it come in contact with it, even for an instant, 
the process would be rendered useless. Though boiling may do 
good in many cases, the germs of disease commence to develop 
as soon as the heat is removed, and no one can feel sure that the 
danger of infection is removed. Therefore, to attain the best re- 
sults place the milk in bottles, cork them with cotton and subject 
them to steam. It is very important to have the bottle perfectly 
clean, not only to sight, but chemically pure. Do not use shot or 
sand, but insert a swab of flannel attached to a stick, in the bot- 
tles. Then, by the means of a little pearline, cleansing is easy. 
Careful rinsing is very nccessaiy, and use a mild solution of borax 
or bi-carbonate of soda for the last rinsing. The swab, when not 
in use, may be kept in a solution of borax. 

The best bottles are those with rounded bottoms and no 
shoulders or joints into which the milk can lodge, with large 
enough necks to allow the swab to enter easily. Hence a round, 
not a square bottle should be used. The simplest method for steril- 
izing milk is by means of the Arnold steam cooker, for in an ordinary 
steamer one is liable to break many bottles. However, it is pos- 
sible to succeed, without going to the expense of a special appar- 
atus, with a rack to hold the bottles in the steamer. If away from 



( 92 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK, 

home where a steamer is not obtainable, place the bottles in water 
and allow it to boil, but this process takes much longer to obtain 
complete sterilization than by the use of a close steamer. The 
advantage of the cooker is that after the bottles are in it they do 
not need attention till they are to be taken out. 

Dilute the milk with oatmeal, barley, wheatlet, etc., before it is 
put in the bottles. The cooking will be an additional benefit. 
The milk should only come to within two inches of the top of the 
bottle. The wads of clean, white cotton, used as corks, allow the 
hot steam to pass back and forth through them, but effectually 
shut out the cold air both during the process of steaming and 
afterwards when the milk has cooled. 

Much controversy has arisen as to the length of time milk should 
be steamed. It depends, in my experience, upon the quality and 
the freshness of the milk. If the milk comes right from the cow, 
be confident that the germs will be killed in a short time, but if 
the milk has been carried around in the cans of the milkman, it 
may take two hours' steaming to render it completely sterile. It 
is best to steam it as soon as it comes from the milkman. Test 
the perfection of work by putting away a bottle occasionally and 
keeping it in a warm place. If at the end of a week the milk is 
sweet, be sure that the work has been well done. 

Steam the milk fully an hour. After taking the bottles from 
the steamer be sure and put them on a folded newspaper to cool ; 
do not put them suddenly in a colder atmosphere. 

If the cotton cork has been forced out by the heat, put it care- 
fully back in its place, and steam that bottle ten minutes longer. 

Open but one bottle at a time, and if the milk is not taken 
quickly by the child, pour only a portion of the contents from the 
bottle at first and reinsert the cork till the remainder is required. 
If all the milk is not taken, throw it away, as it is not wise to be 
economical where there is danger of the milk having absorbed 
fresh germs from the air as it has rushed in the moment the bottle 
was uncorked. 

Though the water in cities is generally impure, the country sup- 
ply is oftfen bad, owing to poor drainage, surface water, etc. Of 
course there are degrees of impurity, but instances might be mul- 



THE FAMILY. 693 

tiplied to show that water may be unfit to drink without the fact 
being detected before illness follows; or it may be of such a chem- 
ical nature as to give in excess certain substances which injure 
the system ; and the object in sterilizing the water is to render it 
beneficial as well as harmless. 

If sterilizing milk removes all deleterious germs, there is no 
reason why the same process should not be employed for water. 
Babies must have water ; it is refreshing, life-giving. Often, 
when they are fretful, a small portion of water will cool the fever- 
ish mouths and work like a charm on the dispositions. Though 
boiling the water is beneficial, the sparkling gases which give 
flavor to the water partially evaporate in boiling. Especial care 
must be taken, for if any portion of unboiled water is left in the 
vessel used for the boiled water the whole process is futile. 

The best way is to have pint or half -pint bottles with glass stop- 
pers. Mellin's Food bottles are very convenient. Let the cold 
water run at least ten minutes from the faucet. Boil it in a clean, 
carefully rinsed tea-kettle. Put a silver knife or fork in the 
bottle, pour in three inches of boiling water, and rinse with this, 
so that If there are any impurities or any unboiled water left after 
washing the bottle, all will be removed. Then put in the silver 
knife again and fill the bottle. Be careful to put the stopper in 
at once, while the steam is rising, and keep the bottle carefully 
corked. It is very convenient to keep one or more of these bottles 
in the bedroom at night for the use of the little ones. The water 
maybe kept cool on the window sill in winter, or on ice in summer. 
By this means all danger from impure ice is removed, and cool, 
refreshing water is a possibility. 

The large bottles in which druggists keep Vichy are excellent 
for holding boiled water. The contents may be drawn off without 
uncorking. More or less air reaches the water whenever it is un- 
corked, and water will absorb germs from the air, but for all prac- 
tical purposes, if the ordinary bottle with a glass stopper is quickly 
recorked after drawing off some water, and if the water is not kept 
in it very long, boiled fresh twice a day, no great harm will result. 

Should the water be very impure in the first place, or the taint 
of disease or the presence of organic matter be suspected, it should 



694 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

be filtered, boiled, put in a covered dish to cool, and when cool 
boiled again. Repeat the process three times. When once un- 
corked, the bottle should be emptied of its contents and a fresh 
supply obtained. By this means man}' infectious diseases would 
be checked in their course. 

Where a jourae}" is to be taken, it is well to sterilize a certain 
number of bottles, and the water will remain fresh for an unlim- 
ited time, as long as the bottles are kept corked. Put the clean 
and empty bottles in a close steamer, and subject them to live 
steam for half an hour. Then remove them and put the freshly 
filtered water in them to within two inches of the top. Cork them 
with wads of white cotton, put them back in the steamer and al- 
low them to be subjected to intense heat for an hour or more. 
Water so sterilized will retain all its flavor and sparkle, and keep 
fresh as long as wished. 

Do not discontinue the sterilization of milk or water until the 
child is three years old, or has passed its second summer, and it is 
always to be preferred to ordinary water in cases of sickness. 

Do not be in a hurry to add to the baby's diet. As long as the 
child thrives let milk be given, unless something else is greatly 
craved. No meat should be given till the teeth are formed, no mat- 
ter what the age may be. 

After a child has cut all its teeth, which is usually between two 
and two and a half years, it may be allowed gradually to eat all 
foods that it is able to digest; and the mother should arrange the diet 
accordingly, as attention and forethought on her part in the child's 
infancy means good digestive ability when grown. 

Prepare plain food for children, serve it in an attractive man- 
ner, let them eat until satisfied, but insist upon slow eating and 
thorough mastication. Each child has its own peculiarities, and 
what one can eat may injure another. The wise mother will study 
and provide for the individual needs. 

Children require a great deal of fresh air, sunlight, and sleep. 
Cold weather should not prevent young infants from being taken 
outdoors in the late morning and early afternoon. In very cold 
weather, wrap it well and give it the air in the sunny part of the 
day. In warm weather, it should be brought in before the change 
of the evening air is felt. 



THE FAMILY. 695 

Let the hours for sleep and eating be regular, and the older a 
child is before giving up the daily nap, the better. Many mothers 
wisely insist on the children's taking a rest hour until they are sev- 
eral years old. 

There are several magazines published to aid young mothers in 
the physical, moral, and intellectual training of the baby. A study 
of the kindergarten with home application, will be of great ser- 
vice to all concerned. 

A wise, intelligent mother will be able largely to keep her chil- 
dren well, and when sick she can generally care for them success- 
fully. Ordinary accidents come under her treatment, and one of 
the advantages of the higher education is to give a woman better 
practical knowledge for home living. 

Every mother should ' ' grow up " with her children. The great 
need now as of old, is "good mothers." With these the prosper- 
ity of any people is secured, and fraught with danger the time 
when women cease to believe that 

"A woman's crown of glory 
Is the blessing of a child." 

POISONS AND ANTIDOTES. 

Poisonous substances may enter the system through the stom- 
ach, or by absorption or inhalation ; in the form of solids, liquids 
or gases. Most frequently the poison is taken into the stomach, 
and the treatment here outlined, is directed toward poisoning from 
indigestion. 

General Diagnosis of Poisoning. — A person may be supposed 
to be suffering from poisoning, if, soon after taking food or drink, 
he is seized with violent pain, vomiting, purging, and convulsions ; 
or if he be attacked under the same circumstances with delirium, 
or great drowsiness. 

General Treatment. — In every case of poisoning, with the ex- 
ception of acids and alkalies, which must first be neutralized, the 
first thing to be done is to completely evacuate the contents of the 
stomach. Then give the proper chemical or physiological antidote, 
followed by such general treatment as the case may demand. For 
the first indication, the stomach pump, or long tube with fun- 



tf96 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

nel, is best, by which the stomach may be thoroughly washed out. 
The f unueled tube is easily introduced through the sesophagus ; 
when in place, the f unneled end is elevated and water poured into 
the stomach, then the funneled end is depressed and the water, 
etc., flows out, on the principle of the syphon. Repeat as often as 
necessary. The following substances are the most effective emet- 
ics : Apomorphia ; one-tenth grain, hypodermically, is the most 
prompt and efficient. Ipecacuanha; powdered, thirty grains in 
water. Sulphate of zinc ; thirty grains in water, repeat if neces- 
sary. Prompt and safe. Sulphate of copper ; five to ten grains 
in water. Mustard ; a tablespoonful in half a pint of warm water. 
Common salt ; two tablespoonf uls in half a pint of tepid water. 

Select that which can be most speedily obtained. The action of 
an emetic is facilitated if large quantities of fluid be swallowed. 
In selecting the proper physiological or chemical antidote, the kind 
of poison taken into the stomach must be considered, as indicated 
below. Stimulants should be employed if there are cold extremities, 
blue lips, pale face, or cold perspiration on the face. Of these none 
are better than strong, moderately hot, tea and coffee, given either 
by mouth or as an enema. Coffee is particularly useful in opium, 
aconite, or belladonna poisoning, as it is an antidote to these drugs. 
The same is true of tea, in poisoning by tartar emetic and corro- 
sive sublimate. Alcohol should not be given when the poison is a 
narcotic. Ammonia, by inhalation, is very good. The extremities 
are to be kept warm by water bottles, hot bricks or hot blankets. 

In poisoning from narcotics, prevent the patient from sinking 
into fatal stupor by slapping the skin with wet towels, rubbing 
with coarse cloths or brushes. Walking the patient around adds 
exhaustion to the alread}' depressed forces. Alternate hot and cold 
douches are useful. 

After there has been copious vomiting following corrosive poi- 
sons, mucilaginous drinks or demulcent drinks, such as milk, white 
of egg, oil, linseed tea, gruels, etc. , must be given. 

In every case of poisoning it is best to send for a physician at 
once. The following table will, however, prove useful in suggest- 
ing the proper line of treatment in every form of poisoning liable 
to occur. 



THE FAMILY. 697 

If the kind of poison is unknown, provoke repeated vomiting, 
give demulcent drinks, stimulate if necessary, and use the "Mul- 
tiple antidote, " which is prepared according to the following formula: 
ty Sat. Sol. Iron Sulphate § i j ss 
Water § xx 

Calcined Magnesia 3 i \ 

Animal Charcoal § j 

Keep the iron solution separately, and the magnesia and char- 
coal mixed in a bottle of water. When required for use, pour all 
into a bottle together, and shake. Give a wineglassful at a time. 
This is a perfect antidote to arsenic, zinc, and digitalis ; delays the 
action of the copper salts, morphine, and strychnine, and slightly 
influences the salts of mercury. 

POISONS AND TREATMENT. 

Acetate op Lead. — Give Epsom salts or diluted sulphuric acid; 
provoke vomiting ; give bland liquids ; give castor oil. 

Acids. — Muriatic, nitric, oxalic, sulphuric. Treatment. — Give 
an alkali ; cause vomiting ; give bland fluids ; secure rest ; stim- 
ulate when needed. 

Acid, Carbolic — Give Epsom salts, dilute sulphuric acid and 
oil ; produce vomiting ; stimulate. 

Acid, Prussic — Give dilute ammonia (hartshorn); chlorine 
water ; solution of a salt of iron ; cause vomiting ; stimulate. 

Aconite. — Provoke vomiting ; stimulate well ; give black coffee. 

Alcohol. — Produce vomiting ; give ammonia and water. 

Alkalies. —Ammonia, lye, potash, soda. Treatment. — Give 
an acid (vinegar) ; cause vomiting ; give bland liquids; secure 
rest ; stimulate if necessary. 

Arsenic. — Fowler's solution, Paris green, Schule's green. Treat- 
ment. — Vomit immediately; give dialyzed iron and salt or hy- 
drated oxide * ; castor oil ; secure rest ; stimulate when needed. 

Belladonna. — Jamestown weed, hemlock, toadstool, tobacco. 
Treatment. — Induce vomiting ; give a purge ; stimulate well. 

*Note.— The hydrated peroxide of iron, for arsenic poisoning, is prepared as fol- 
lows: Add strong ammonia to equal partsof the tincture of iron and water: strain 
through a fine cloth ; collect the thick precipitate, and after washing out the am- 
monia, by shaking it in a jar of clear water, give a spoonful of the precipitate as 
it falls. Follow this with a large dose of castor oil. 



698 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

Copper Salts. — Give albumen (eggs); cause vomiting ; give 
bland liquids. 

Iodine. — Cause vomiting ; give starch and water ; give bland 
liquids. 

Mercury. — Antimony, corrosive sublimate, tartaric acid. 
Treatment. — Provoke vomiting ; use some infusion containing tan- 
nic acid ; raw eggs and milk ; castor oil ; stimulate, if necessary. 

Nitrate of Silver (Lunar caustic). — Give strong salt and water. 
Cause repeated vomiting. 

Opium. — Chloral, laudanum, morphine, paregoric. Treatment. 
— Induce repeated vomiting; give atropia and strong coffee or 
tea ; keep up respiration ( electricity ). 

Phosphorus. — Cause vomiting ; give five grain doses of sul- 
phate of copper ; give doses of magnesia but no oil. 

Poisonous Gases. — Carbonic acid or oxide, sulphuretted hy- 
drogen. Treatment. — Fresh air ; artificial respiration; stimula- 
tion. 

Powdered Glass. — Give large quantities of bread crumbs or 
mashed potato to envelop the glass ; give emetic but do not al- 
low it to pass into the bowels. 

Strychnine. — Provoke vomiting once or twice ; give chloral 
and secure absolute rest. 



MANNERS. ' 

ETIQUETTE is the ceremonial code of society ; manners relate 
to individual behavior. Certain forms of etiquette prevail in 
all society, and a disregard of them implies ignorance or incivil- 
ity. Where there are many social claims, a failure to observe them 
lays one open to severe criticism and final neglect. 

It is as important however to exercise common sense here as 
elsewhere. There are a thousand and one points which may be 
learned by observing well-bred people or which will occur to one 
who practices thoughtful ness for others. A good memory is of 
great assistance. One may conform to conventional or social 
usages, may possess the arts of pleasing and yet be heartless, a 
fashionable devotee, a veneered rascal. To be well-bred, in its 
best sense, means that good manners are a part of daily living ; 
that tlie Golden Rule is the foundation of behavior and there- 
fore all must strive to be considerate, patient, respectful, kindly, 
unselfish. If, as Emerson says, " a good behavior is the finest of 
the arts," it can be cultivated. "Small sacrifices, little courte- 
sies, a kind spirit, insignificant attentions, self-control and allow- 
ances for the failings of others " are a part of good behavior and 
may become second nature through early training or determination. 

Though this article gives the commonly accepted rules of society 
and mentions some of the habits which characterize a well-bred 
person, a book on social usages should be consulted for elaborate 
instructions in etiquette. 

CALLS OR VISITS. 

First Calls. — Retunrthem within seven days. If an invitation 
to an entertainment immediately follows the call, return the call 
at onGe, and call again after the entertainment. 

The first call should be made by. the resident upon the later 
comer ; or upon strangers when desiring to show civility. In 
Washington this rule is reversed. 

Formal Calls. — Make these once a year. 

Hours. — The formal call is made between three and six. 

699 



700 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

Important Calls. — Those following a breakfast, dance, luncheon 
and dinner ; a call in the city upon those who entertain in the 
country ; a call upon a bride. 

Information. — A gentleman must wait for a request to call upon 
a lady, unless he brings a letter of introduction or is asked to ac- 
company a lady, a close friend of the former. An invitation to 
an "at home " or other entertainment gives him the entree to her 
house. 

No young lady, visiting, should ask a gentleman to call on her 
until she knows the pleasure of her friends, and she should not 
fail of introducing him when he calls. No gentleman should call 
on a young lady without asking for her mother or her chaperon, 
and should leave cards for both. 

A gentleman or lady calling upon the guest of a family should 
send up a card for the hostess, though unacquainted with her. 
This does not necessitate further acquaintance. 

CARDS. 

Use plain, medium-sized, white, unglazed cards, engraved in fine 
script. A gentleman's card should be very small and the name pre- 
fixed by < ' Mr. " A lady's name should be prefixed by " Mrs. " and 
"Miss." Husband and wife have separate cards. An unmarried 
lady should have her name engraved below her mother's or guar- 
dian's on the same card, for formal calls, the first } r ear or two she 
is in society ; later, she may use her own card. " Miss Reed" is 
the proper form for the name of the oldest daughter in the family, 
while the younger daughters use the whole name as "Miss Mary 
Louise Reed. " 

Address. — This is printed on the lower right-hand corner. 

Number of Cards. — Leave one for each lady in the family. A 
lady may leave her husband's and son's cards in the hall when call- 
ing, or, if she is unmarried her brother's and father's. At a tea a 
lady leaves her card and those of her family. The cards of the 
young men must be individual but a family card may be left for 
the other members: 

Mr. and Mrs. Reed. 
The Misses Reed. 

A card left at a tea discharges social obligations. A card sent 
in place of attendance, the day of the tea, does the same thing. 



MANNERS. 701 

Leave a card for each member of the family, or send one to the 
hostess and one to the other members of the family, when not 
making the first call. 

' p. P. C. — When a lady is going away for some length of time 
she writes p. p. c. on her cards and mails them to her friends. 
These letters are from the French words "pour prendre conge\" 
meaning "to take leave." 

Reception. — Leave cards in the hall at an afternoon reception or 
tea. It is equivalent to a call. No separate card is left for a guest. 

Wedding Cards. — They include invitations to a marriage, or en- 
tertainment, or both, and afterward the cards of the married pair, 
with their address, and the announcement card with the reception 
card of the bride. 

When a bride is settled in her home she should send out cards 
for two or three reception days when her friends and acquaintances 
may call on her. 

A gentleman calling on ladies at home with whom he is well 
acquainted is announced by a servant ; if he is a stranger, he sends 
in his card. 

If he wishes to call on one member of the family l^e sends his 
card to 'that one, adding that he would like to see all. 

Gentlemen who have no time to call should be represented by 
their cards. 

Cards are left at the end of the month after a death in a family 
where one is in the habit of visiting. 

Strangers in town should send cards, with their address, by post, 
to those friends whom they would like to see. 

Cards should be left within a week after an invitation to a ball, 
concert, theatre party or garden party. A call in person must not 
be answered by a card. 

If a lady is invited to any entertainment by a new acquaintance, 
however the invitation may come, she should leave her card imme- 
diately and send a regret or acceptance. She should call within a 
week. 

INTRODUCTIONS. 

Two rules are considered binding in good society: No gentle- 
man should be introduced to a lady unless her permission has 



702 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

been previously given ; no woman should be introduced formally 
to another woman unless the introducer knows it is mutually de- 
sired. A mother introduces her son and daughter, a wife her 
husband and a husband his wife without asking permission. 

At a tea or large reception, a lady may introduce only the 
daughter or sister under her charge. At dinner parties, the hostess 
may introduce her friends to each other, but it is good form to con- 
sider the roof -tree a sufficient introduction for the occasion. The 
hostess introduces to a lady the gentleman who takes her to dinner, 
and all the company are introduced to any distinguished stranger 
present. Be careful to introduce shy people, or young people, and 
endeavor to say a pleasant word at the time to induce easy con- 
versation. 

The simplest form of introduction is the best, though a lady 
should give the title of her husband when introducing him. 

This is the ordinary formula: "Mrs. Reed, may I," or "allow 
me to present," or "introduce, Mr. Hawley. " Always present 
the gentleman to the lady, and when the sexes are the same intro- 
duce the person of the lesser to the one of greater age or impor- 
tance. 

A gentleman after being introduced to a lady should wait to be 
recognized before claiming her acquaintance. A gentleman takes 
off his hat to a lady, and when with a lady raises it when she recog- 
nizes a friend. It is also courteous for a young gentleman to recog- 
nize the presence of elders or superiors by lifting his hat. Cas- 
ual introductions, as those out of doors, at lawn parties, or on the 
street, do not involve further acquaintance unless mutually desired. 

Common sense must interpret etiquette, and a kindly, unselfish 
person will rarely offend or be offended. The best bred people are 
not easily hurt, nor do they hurt others. Be not in haste to im- 
pute neglect. 

INVITATIONS, ACCEPTANCES, REGRETS. 

All cards of invitation, except those to dinner, may be sent by 
post. An invitation to dinner and the reply must be sent by priv- 
ate hand. An invitation to dinner must be acknowledged by a 
call within a week. Invitations to luncheon are generally written 



MANNERS. 703 

on note paper, and are rather informal. Invitations on visiting 
cards require no answer unless it is requested. 

The daughter or daughters' names are frequently placed after 
the parents' on an invitation, but a son receives a separate card. 
Where there are several sisters in a family it is understood that 
but two will accept the invitation. Observe the formula of your 
invitation and answer it accordingly. In declining an invitation 
always give a polite excuse for absence. Never write "regrets" 
on your card. It is considered an insult. Send your card with- 
out additional word or write a note thus: " Mr. and Mrs. Gray," 
or "Mrs. Gray regrets that a previous engagement will prevent 
her accepting Mrs. Reed's kind," or "polite invitation. " 

In writing or answering invitations never use numerical figures 
for written numbers. Always use the present tense. The envel- 
ope of a formal invitation is usually all that shows to whom the 
invitation is addressed. 

Invitations to a dinner are given in the name of the host and 
hostess ; those to a ball, a tea, " at home," a garden party, etc. , 
are in the name of the hostess only. Invitations to a wedding are 
in the name of the bride's parents, or if they are not living, in 
the name of the guardian or near relative. In some cases, when 
the mother is dead the oldest daughter's name appears with her 
father's for dinners, receptions, "at homes, " though it is not com- 
mon, but never for a wedding. She may issue cards for a tea in 
her own name. No lady invites to a ball in her own name. An 
"at home" card is used, with "dancing" written or engraved on 
the lower left-hand corner. 

Balls. — Formal invitations are sent to evening entertainments 
in the name of the hostess, as " Mrs. Tracy requests the pleasure, 
etc," or: 

Mrs. Tracy, 

At Home, 
"Wednesday evening, January eleventh, at 
nine o'clock, 540 Mary Place, 

with " Dancing " in the lower left-hand corner of the card. "R. 
S. V. P." is generally added to such invitations, 



704 HOUSEKEEPER GOOK BOOK. 

Dinner. — An informal invitation is usually written on note paper, 
in letter form and in the first person, thus : 

"Dear Mrs. Smith : 

Will you and Mr. Smith give us the pleasure 
of your company to dinner, etc. " 

The formal invitation is uniform, and is engraved or written : 

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Brown 

request the pleasure of 

Mr. and Mrs. Gray's company at dinner, 

December thirteenth at seven o'clock, 

462 Blank St. South. 

The answer should be immediate whether an acceptance or regret. 
Never send a conditional answer. Simply say : 

Mr. and Mrs. John Gray 

accept with pleasure the kind invitation of 

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Brown to dinner 

on December thirteenth 

at seven o'clock. 

or, if a regret : 

Mr. and Mrs. John Gray 

regret that a previous engagement prevents 

them from accepting 

Mr. and Mrs. Brown's kind invitation to dinner 

on December thirteenth, 

at seven o'clock. 

Always repeat the day, date, and hour in the reply, to avoid pos- 
sible mistakes. Sometimes cards are used instead of note paper. 
R. S. V. P., meaning " Please reply, " is put in the lower right 
hand corner. This ought not to be necessary, as it is very ill- 
bred not to reply immediately. If guests are asked to meet any 
distinguished person, mention it thus, on the card after the hour 
of dinner, or on an extra card, " to meet Mr. or Mrs. — , " etc. 



MANNERS. 705 . 

Receptions. — "At home" cards are used for both day and even- 
ing receptions. The daughter's name may appear under her 
mother's, if desired: 

Mrs. Summers 

Miss Summers 

At Home 

Tuesday, November the tenth. 

Four until six o'clock. 

704 Ashland Ave. 

Separate cards for a wedding reception read thus : 

Mr. and Mrs. Brown at home, etc. 

Teas, etc. — The visiting card of the hostess with "Tea at four 
o'clock," or "At home from four until seven," and date in the left- 
hand corner is all that is required. Visiting cards are also used 
for small entertainments, though informal notes are preferable. 

^Weddings. — The invitations are engraved on thick note paper, 
pure white, and without gloss; folded once to fit an inner envelope 
which is enclosed in an outer one, and sent out two weeks before- 
hand. They may be sent to either marriage or entertainment sep- 
arately, as those to a church ceremony may include a larger num- 
ber than are asked to the home entertainment. This is the formula: 

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Brown 

request the pleasure of 3-our company 

at the marriage of their daughter, 

Mary Elizabeth, 

to 

Mr. John Henry Gordon, 

on Wednesday evening, September the tenth, 

at seven o'clock. 
673 Mason Ave. Chicago. 

This invites to a marriage and entertainment. Invitations to 
the church read, "request your presence," or " the honor of your 
presence," the name of the church being printed below the date. 
If only a few friends are invited for the ceremony, the entertain- 
ment invitation may read, < ' request the pleasure of your company 
at the wedding reception of their daughter, " the hours being given. 



;ili; HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

Marriages may be announced thus: ' ' Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Brown 
announce the marriage of their daughter, Mary Elizabeth. " A card 
to the bride's reception may be enclosed. Or, the married pair may 
issue cards thus : 

John Henry Gordon 
Mary Elizabeth Brown 
Married 
On Wednesday, September the tenth, 
Eighteen hundred and ninety-two. 
A card to the bridal reception may be enclosed. The invitation 
to a church wedding or the announcement of a marriage needs no 
reply. If you do not attend the wedding reception, send your card. 
All invited guests are expected to call on and entertain the young 
people during the year. 

LETTER WRITING. 

Write legibly, using simple language ; spell correctly, punctu- 
ate carefully, and do not hurry. Bead the letter before sending. 

The conventional forms for letters are, "Sir," " Dear Sir, " "My 
Dear Sir;" "Madam," "Dear Madam," " My Dear Madam. " "Sir" 
implies distance ; "Dear Sir" may be used between equals, though 
strangers; "My Dear Sir" expresses greater familiarity. With 
the first two addresses, end the letter with " Bespectfully Yours," 
and " Truly Yours. " " Sincerely Yours," " Cordially Yours, " or, 
where close intimacy exists, "Affectionately Yours," maybe used 
with "My Dear Sir." A lady should not sign herself "Mrs." or 
' ' Miss, " though in writing to a stranger she should write the name 
in full, thus : < '(Mrs. ) Mary Blake, "or " Mary Blake, " with ' ' Mrs. 
J. H." in brackets under "Mary " ; or " (Miss) Emily Tower." 

It is customary to address the letters of a married woman with 
her husband's name as "Mrs. John Smith, " though many use 
their own name, as "Mrs. Mary Smith," in preference. A widow 
is known as "Mrs. Mary Smith." The eldest daughter is always 
"Miss Smith, " omitting the Christian name. 

Address "Mr. John Smith," or "John Smith, Esq." Never 
use both forms at once. If a letter is addresed to the Hon. James 
Gray, omit the Esq. When the son bears the father's name, ad- 
dress him as James Gray, Jr. 



MANNERS. 707 

In a formal note, write the name of the person address edat the 
commencement of the letter or in the lower left-hand corner at its 
close as, "To J. C. Lord, Esq. " Ordinarily address a servant in 
this fashion: "To Mary Brown," and give the instructions in the 
third person, as "Mrs. Green desires, etc." 

Never give a letter of introduction unless you are thoroughly ac- 
quainted with, and can vouch for the character of the person you 
desire to introduce. 

TABLE MANNERS. 

Be prompt in attendance. Never speak of what is unpleasant, 
if it can be avoided. Do not scold or find fault. Speak low, never 
interrupt one who is speaking, and address the servants quietly. 
Do not criticise nor indulge in high praise of the food. Choose 
interesting subjects of conversation. If obliged to leave the table, 
quietly ask to be excused. Do not lean on the table, and avoid 
noisy behavior, as moving of chairs or feet, tapping of fingers, jost- 
ling of dishes, clatter of knives and forks, or pushing back the chair 
when rising ; lift it gently with the hand. Keep the elbows close 
to the side, and the feet in front of the chair. Sit easily erect, 
with legs bent at the knee. If anything is spilled or broken, do not 
notice it. Do not seek attention, but wait pleasantly till noticed. 
Let the napkin lie unfolded on the lap. Take small mouthfuls; 
eat slowly, chewing with closed lips. Hold the fork in the right 
hand when carrying food to the mouth ; use the knife only when 
necessary for cutting food or spreading butter. When the knife is 
not in use, rest it aci'oss the side of the plate; Place the knife and 
fork together diagonally across the plate when not in use. 

Use a fork for breaking or eating fish, salad, croquettes, pates, 
potatoes, and other dry vegetables, pies, etc. Use a spoon for soup, 
soft puddings, preserves, ice cream, ices, tea, coffee, chocolate, or- 
anges, and berries, except those served on the stem, which are to 
be taken in the fingers, dipped in sugar and eaten. 

Celery, olives, grapes, etc. , are also eaten with the fingers. Re- 
move fruit stones and seeds from the mouth with the fingers, as 
well as the skins of grapes. Use a knife in taking off the skin of 
any fruit. 

Break a slice of bread in pieces before buttering it, and rest it 



708 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

on the plate, not the hand. Do not cut, but brqek open hot bis- 
cuit, muffins, gems, etc. 

When questioned as to choice of food, answer definitely. Accept 
soup, though distasteful ; let it remain before you. Refuse a sec- 
ond plate of soup. It is best to wait until nearly all are served be- 
fore commencing to eat. 

If it is proper to do so, be attentive to the wants of others. If 
the service is given over to attendants, avoid interference. If in 
doubt as to what is good form, observe those whose knowledge is 
sure and conform to their example. 

MISCELLANEOUS. 

Be courteous everywhere. Do not interrupt another who is 
speaking. Express a contrary opinion politely. Cultivate a pleas- 
ant, even-toned voice. Greet friends and acquaintances politely, 
not with ' ' Hullo, " or a similar expression. Avoid boisterous laugh- 
ter, loud talking, and be especially guarded when conversing in a 
public place or conveyance. Do not look over the shoulder of one 
who is reading or writing. Rise when strangers or elderly people 
enter the room and remain standing until they are seated. If 
obliged to pass in front of anyone near by, ask to be excused. A 
gentleman opens and holds open the door through which a lady 
passes, though unacquainted with her. A lady bows and smiles 
her thanks which the gentleman acknowledges by raising his hat. 
* In a car a gentleman offers his seat to a lady, a young person to 
one who is elderly, whether lady or gentleman, or to one heavily 
burdened, and such offers must always be recognized with thanks. 
A gentleman accompanied by a lady lifts his hat when he bows. 
One gentleman bowing to another accompanied by a lady, does the 
same. Always return a bow. 

In this country, it is a lady's place to recognize a gentleman with 
a bow, which he acknowledges by lifting his hat. A gentleman 
walking with a lady carries her packages for her, but except in the 
evening, or for protection, or for the assistance of one who is in- 
firm or aged, he does not offer his arm. A gentleman walking in 
the evening with two ladies offers only one his arm ; the second 
lady may take the arm of the first. 

Turn to the right when passing people and avoid crowding. A 



MANNERS. 709 

lady is given the inside of the walk. Never eat in the street, stare 
in at the windows of private houses, nor laugh at the misfortunes 
of anyone. All questions of strangers should be asked and answered 
politely. 

It is good form for those who are calling to withdraw as soon as 
it can be easily managed after later callers arrive. If the lady on 
whom a call is to be made is on the point of leaving the house, do 
not detain her with a call. Leave a card or call again. 

Return a borrowed article as soon as possible with an expression 
of thanks. Be particular to show appreciation of favors received. 
Enclose a stamp when writing for information or asking a favor. 
Never read a postal or letter addressed to another, unless by per- 
sonal request. Fulfil an engagement unless it is an impossibility. 
Be prompt in attendance at a church service or an entertainment, 
and remain quietly until the close. 

It may seem superfluous to mention many of the above rules, 
but while both adults and children often show ignorance by their 
behavior, it is best to give them prominence. 



THE TOILET. 

BEAUTY and health constitute a royal inheritance ; one is the 
compliment of the other and to retain beauty or to restore that 
which is lost the laws of health must be duly observed. 

Light and sunshine, plenty of pure air, pure water, wholesome 
food, and sleep are far better beautifiers than all the patents under 
the sun. Sunlight gives the cheeks a fresher tinge and a more del- 
icate color than all the French powders and rouges. Keep the win- 
dows open as much as possible by day and at night. Pure air is a 
tonic to the resting system. Wash the body as well as the face fre- 
quently and regularly in pure water. The pores of the skin were 
not made to be clogged, and absolute cleanliness is the best and only 
safe cosmetic in the world. Eat wholesome and strengthening food, 
and exercise daily in the open air. A brisk walk, not a quiet stroll, 
in the early morning sunshine will set the blood tingling and bring 
a glow to the cheeks. Sleep smooths the wrinkles from the face, 
restores the shattered nerves, brightens the languid eye, and quick- 
ens the sluggish intellect, j 

Many women think that at twenty -five or thirty their beauty is 
gone. This is a mistake, for with proper care and minute atten- 
tion to details of physical culture and hygiene, she does not reach 
the prime of her physical beauty till she has attained the age of 
forty or fifty. Earlier than this she may be a beautiful girl, but 
not a beautiful woman. 

What causes old age? We are born with a certain amount of 
physical force and nerve power ; if we recklessly squander this in 
youth, we early become bankrupt. To prevent premature age, every 
avenue leading in that direction must be guarded. 

A vigorous nervous system must be acquired and maintained ; 
nothing must be done that has a tendency to weaken it, and every- 
thing done tending to strengthen it. Tight lacing, tight, high-heeled 
shoes, heavy skirts and cumbersome wraps, which pinion the arms 
to the side and prevent free easy motion, that do not individually 

710 



THE TOILET. 711 

seem much, but which in the aggregate are of great consequence, 
are interdicted. Avoid anxiety and the useless fret and worry which 
causes many a wrinkle ; do away with unnecessary pain, and if na- 
ture gives warning that something is wrong somewhere, answer the 
signal immediately ; the warning is not without a cause. 

Moderation in eating and drinking, short hours of labor and study, 
regularity in exercise and rest, cleanliness, equanimity of temper, 
and equality of temperature, are the cosmetics to employ ; and 
woman holds in her keeping the priceless gem of health, enriched 
with the costly setting, beauty. 

THE FIGURE. 

Properly conducted gymnastic exercises strengthen more sets of 
muscles than walking or rowing. From neglect of precautions in 
childhood, which seem trifling, but which are very important, there 
are few, if any, perfect forms. The shoulders are either too round 
or one is higher than the other ; the neck is sunk too deep into 
the body or twisted ; the figure is thick or thin, or all of a piece. 

When the shoulders of a young girl show a tendency to become 
round, she must be made to throw her elbows well in the rear and 
her chest upward, and to sleep on her back. The neck should be 
carried straight, but without stiffness, so that the fleshy part below 
the jaw, may not form a double chin. In sitting down, the head 
and neck should be held up, the trunk erect, the shoulders low, and 
whether standing or walking, the body should be upright ; but avoid 
leaning backward. The figure will be improved, the carriage also, 
by plrysical exercises. 

In a perfect figure, the length from crown to sole measures the 
same as from tip to tip of the outstretched arms. The waist should 
measure one-third less than the hips, and the hips one-third less 
than the shoulders. When standing erect, the body should be lightly 
poised on the ball of the foot, and the weight thrown forward. A 
head well balanced soon comes to be well poised ; shoulders well 
squared fill up the bodice ; hips well held make the gown drape 
gracefully ; and feet that come to the ground prettily come near to 
being pretty feet. 



712 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

THE CARRIAGE. 

Walking is not a hap-hazard grace ; to walk well is an accom- 
plishment that requires ease, balance, and finish of movement. The 
head must not be thrown back, but held erect, naturally forward. 
When the figure is erect, a plumb line will fall from the ear to the 
shoulder, hip, knee and arch of the foot ; a plumb line from the 
chin would strike a point midway between toe and instep. Curve 
the back easily in at the waist and step as much as possible from 
the hip, that is, keep the knee nearly straight. . The slighest flex- 
ure is sufficient ; it is excellent practice to walk ten minutes every 
morning holding the knee perfectly stiff. Do not tread flat footed. 
Let the toe and ball of the foot strike ground first, or just enough 
before, so that the ball and heel shall seem nearly to touch together. 
Throw most of the weight forward, therein lies the secret of alight, 
springy tread. Keep the body plumb, that is, do not oscillate from 
side to side, and let the arms hang easily from the shoulder. 

It is well to practice for a certain period each day, walking after 
the fashion of the Orientals, partly undressed, either with bare feet 
or heelless shoes, so that the sole of the foot rests firmly on the 
ground ; the shoulders set back, the arms hanging lightly at the 
sides, and most important of all, on the head a flat vessel, which 
contains water, that must not be upset. This will insure a correct 
walk ; and a good carriage induces a good figure. 

GRACE. 

The secret of grace of the body, is suppleness of joint, and a 
series of exercises will render supple each separate joint in the body. 
Turn the fingers round and round on the axis of the hand ; turn the 
hand round and round on the axis of the wrist ; turn the forearm 
on the elbow, and the whole arm on the shoulder ; turn the head 
on the neck slowly and as far around as possible ; turn the trunk 
on the waistline ; the legs on the hips ; the lower half of the leg on 
the knee, and the foot on the ankle. A constant practice of this one 
turning exercise, every day for one month, until every joint is sup- 
ple, will give eas} r grace and freedom of movement. The most im- 
portant of the movements are those that turn the body on the waist, 
the legs on the hips, and the head on the neck. 



THE TOILET. 713 

OBESITY. 

Rise early in the morning. Restrict the hours of slumber to seven, 
and take either a brisk walk or active exercise for half an hour be- 
fore breakfast. Avoid all starchy and sugary foods. Turkish baths 
will greatly expedite the process. These three rules are requisite ; 
there must be no indulgence in tempting dishes, no lying in bed later 
than seven, and no interruption of gymnastic exercises. 

THINNESS. 

To gain flesh, avoid fretting, irritability, and mental worry. Re- 
tire earty, and sleep as late as the performance of necessary duties 
will permit. Before rising, drink a cup of warm boiled milk or 
cocoa, then take a warm, not hot, bath and dress leisurely. Drink 
neither tea nor coffee. Drink nothing of an acid nature, and use 
sugary and oily foods as far as possible. Eat slowly, and the daily 
exercise should be regular and moderate. 

CHEST DEVELOPMENT. 

The best local treatment is friction, the utmost care being taken, 
neither to chafe the skin nor to cause the slightest sensation of 
bruising. An effective treatment, but one that must be continued 
some length of time before any appreciable benefit is observed, is 
to bathe the chest freely at night with hot water to open all the pores 
of the skin, and then apply pure olive oil, without rubbing it in. 
It will all be absorbed before morning. Upon rising dash the chest 
with cold water, and pat it briskly to insure active circulation. Still 
another method is regularly and faithfully to follow a course of mo- 
tion exercises for the head and neck. Drop the heatt forward, slowly 
and firmly, then drop it backward, then diagonally over the left 
shoulder, then over the right one, and turn it from side to side as 
far around as possible. This will develop all the muscles brought 
into active play. 

THE SKIN. 

The skin consists of three layers, the true skin lying underneath 
the cuticle which protects and covers. Besides the arteries, veins 
and nerves, the true skin contains millions of little glands opening 
by tiny tubes upon the cuticle, through which the processes of tran- 
spii-ation and respiration go on. The health and beaut3 r of a skin 



714 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

depend chiefly upon the free action of its pores. If they are choked 
by the application of foreign substances, black deposits will form 
and blotches will appear. The presence of lime and magnesia in 
hard water, combined with the fatty acid of soap, forms a greasy 
substance which fills the pores of the skin, inducing them to 
crack and widen. Thus the injury in using hard water on the skin. 

To a healthy skin and beautiful complexion, a proper amount of 
sleep is absolutely essential. Everybody up to middle life, at least, 
should have from seven to nine hours' sleep out of the twenty-four. 
There is no time when the skin is so clear and smooth, face so plump, 
and eyes so bright, as after a night's long restful sleep. This 
should embrace the early hours of night, and should be in health- 
ful apartments. 

The surroundings and environments must tend toward a tranquil, 
easy, happy, satisfied disposition. Temperance and moderation must 
be observed in diet and exercise. Eat only good, plain, substantial 
food, with as little of sweets and fats as favors perfect digestion, 
assimilation and elimination. Moderate amounts of tea and coffee 
may do no harm, but they also do no good. The air breathed must 
be pure •, it is impossible to have a good skin and breathe an atmos- 
phere tainted with smoke, soot, sewer gas and other impurities. 

, A muddy or sallow skin is usually due to these impurities but 
there is often, in addition to the deleterious influence of impure air, 
a defective elimination of the waste products of the system ; this 
is due to constipation of the bowels, and a lack of healthful activity 
in other organs. A glass of hot water, taken before each meal, has 
a tendency to render the skin soft, plump and smooth, and induces 
elimination through the sweat glands. At least once every day water 
should touch every part of the skin, and every part should be rubbed 
till rosy with a towel or brush. The water need not be cold; it should 
not be, unless the heat of the room or the season makes it agreea- 
ble. Do not be afraid to use soap on the face ; if it makes the skin 
to shine, that is only because it has not been rubbed dry. Apply 
friction lightly and briskly with the palm of the hand, and the shine 
will disappear. White Castile is a good toilet soap. 

The human body exhales perspiration to the amount of from two 
to three pints daily, and this, together with the dust that settles 



THE TOILET. 715 

upon the skin, is calculated to close up the pores. Never let per- 
spiration dry upon the skin ; remove the clothing and rub dry with 
a towel. Perspiration cools the skin and sends the blood inward 
If it dries so, it causes a chill, but if the skin is rubbed the blood 
returns to the surface. Sun and air are as good for the skin as water. 
Make a habit of drawing a deep breath at every inspiration : the 
deep breathing is td the inside what bathing is to the surface. 
Ventilate well the bedroom : have sufficient clothing on the bed. but 
sleep with the window ooen at night, no matter how cold the air. 
Wash the face before retiring, to remove the dust and dirt of the day. 
Hot water is good for both face and hands, as it opens the pores ; 
if followed by a dash of cold water and the skin is briskly rubbed, 
the blood is set in motion. •► 

THE COMPLEXION. 

If a physician does not prohibit Turkish baths, these will work 
wonders for a poor complexion, as all impurities are freed through 
the open pores of the skin. One or two baths only will not cause 
the skin to act freely, but a three months' course, regularly taken, 
will produce appreciable benefit. Where the Turkish bath is im- 
practicable, the so-called Russian bath is the next best thing, and 
is particularly desirable for the face, neck, and arms, though great 
care must be exercised that it be not followed by a cold. Steam 
over a vessel of hot water, excluding the air by means of large tow- 
els )t until the skin is thorough^ damp and moist ; then sponge 
quickly and freely with cold water, drying rapidly, first with a rough 
towel, and then a fine one. 

Next to this comes friction, gentle but frequent. After washing, 
rub the skin vigorously with a rough towel. If the skin be affected 
with pimples, this treatment will in all probability aggravate them 
at first, but in time they will disappear and the flesh become firm 
and smooth. 

Hard water will never make a good complexion. If possible, 

alwaj'S use rain water, or soft water ; if this is not procurable, boil 

the hard water and allow it to cool. Borax in the water will soften it. 

An excellent substitute for a sponge in the bath is a cheesecloth 

or flannel bag, filled with oaten almond meal, or bran and powdered 



716 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

orris root, mixed with benzoin or borax. This makes the water 
pleasantly soft. 

WRINKLES. 

The skin of the face wrinkles for the same reason that the ikin 
of an apple shrivels. The pulp of the fruit shrinks and contracts 
as the juices dry up, and the skin, once tight and smooth, now too 
large for its contents, shrivels and lies in folds. 

A mechanical treatment, recommended to prevent the formation 
of wrinkles, is to slightly oil the fingers and gently rub the face in 
a direction contrary to the wrinkles. If the wrinkles are horizon- 
tal, rub vertically, and vice versa. This should be done at least 
once daily, and the operation continued for fully five minutes a* a 
time. The fingers may be twice or thrice freshly oiled and the 
pressure should be even and firm. Wool fat is a valuable toilet ad- 
junct for the treatment of crows-feet and wrinkles. 

Where the wrinkles are caused by a peculiar habit of frowning or 
holding the features in any fixed position, care should be taken to 
break the habit, and to prevent the increase of the lines. The few 
very deep and strongly marked lines, visible on some faces from al- 
most early childhood cannot be remedied, such as the two deep lines 
around the mouth or those that radiate from between the eyebrows 
across the forehead, or lie across the forehead horizontally. 

To remove sunburn, treat with tincture of benzoin and water, a 
teaspoonful of benzoin to a cupful of cold water. Bathe the parts 
for several minutes night and morning, then dry gently with soft 
old linen. Avoid getting the mixture in the eyes. 

Freckles are good wholesome adornments, nothing to be ashamed 
of, but they may be removed by applying lemon juice mixed with a 
little water. 

Unless absolutely disfiguring, it is best not to interfere with su- 
perfluous hairs on the skin. The best treatment for their eradica- 
tion, is electrolysis, and they may be removed by means of prop- 
erly combined chemical solvents. 

A frequent cause of the loss of eyelashes, is the formation on 
the lids during sleep, of a greasy paste, which hardens. If this is 
carelessly removed, the lashes are pulled with it. This deposit 
should be carefully washed away with tepid water. 



THE TOILET. 717 

THE NOSE. 

The chief causes of complaint regarding the nose are redness and 
shiningness. Redness, due to indigestion, is only cured by careful 
attention to diet ; if caused by had circulation, general friction of 
the body, or massage, is necessary, and if this be taken in the form 
of Turkish baths, it will have a beneficial effect. If these are im- 
practicable, a fairly good substitute is to sponge the body with a 
large sponge wrung out of cold water, dry with a rough towel as 
quickly as possible, and drink immediately a glass of hot water or 
milk. Bathe shining noses, if damp and moist, with alum water or 
benzoin lotion. The dry polish that generally appears after wash- 
ing, is the effect of the soap used, or the result of hot or cold wa- 
ter, which affects differently various skins'. 

The commonest form of eruption is acne or blackheads around the 
base and on the tip of the nose, which may be defined as congealed 
perspiration, or an oily secretion, that turns black on exposure to 
the air. Turkish baths are an effectual remedy for these, and 
should be taken with unfailing regularity for a length of time. 
Frequently steaming the face over a bowl of hot water, and then 
rubbing tiie nose firmly, but not roughly, with the finger or a rough 
towel, will answer the same purpose. The blackheads may be 
squeezed out between the fingers, but the process must be often 
repeated, as they will reappear. 

Another less common form of acne, sometimes appears on tfhe 
forehead and around the nose. It looks like seed pearls sunk in 
the skin, and is caused from the inactive sebaceous glands, which, 
unable to get rid of their contents, swell and become hard. The 
best remedy is to prick them with a needle, press out the mass, 
and bathe the empty sac with toilet vinegar. 

THE MOUTH. 

The mouth is bound by no beauty laws, and has but one require- 
ment, that it be shapely. The most beautiful shape is the " Cu- 
pid's Bow. " In all cases, the lips should be a fresh, brilliant red. 
The lips are too frequently neglected, and, because sensitive, they 
deserve tender treatment. The best and simplest emollients are cold 
cream and vaseline, both harmless, while sweet olive oil, though 



718 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

disagreeable, is often beneficial. A small quantity of either of 
these should be put on before washing or going outdoors. 

Lip salve for coloring, should not be used, as it is a poor at- 
tempt at painting. Gentle friction with a rough towel is a good if 
not lasting method of imparting color to pallid lips. 

The continued application of any perfume will render the skin 
hard, brittle, and liable to crack upon the slightest provocation. 

Cracked lips are best and quickest healed with court-plaster. 
Cold sores on the lips are healed with medicated court-plaster. 
Canker sore in the mouth is cured with broken alum, borax, or bi- 
carbonate of soda. If the mouth is washed out after each meal it 
will tend to keep the breath sweet. The dentist should be con- 
sulted at regular intervals, that he may discover the first approach 
of decay in the teeth. Keep the teeth free of tartar by occasion- 
al^ drawing a slip of emery paper between them. Clean white 
teeth are beautiful, and only watchful care will keep them so. 
They should be faithf ully brushed night and morning. Limewater 
is a good wash for the teeth, mouth and throat. To rinse the 
mouth night and morning with water in which are a few drops of 
listerine, is particularly desirable. 

THE HAND. 

From earl}' youth the hand should be properly treated, if it is to 
be beautiful through life. A school girl may injure the shape and 
size of her hand by using it as a slate cleaner without the aid of a 
sponge. The hands should be thoroughly dried after washing, or 
the skin grows rough and chapped. The symmetry of the hand 
is spoiled if the nails are bitten. The use of gloves helps to pre- 
serve the softness of the hands, and they should be worn when 
sweeping or doing rough work. 

The best way to use lemon for whitening the skin, and making 
it soft, is to cut the fruit in four parts, and apply the inner por- 
tion of the pieces to the back of the hand, rubbing it firmly up 
and down till the juice is exhausted. 

Elder-flower water is good for use after washing. A soothing 
lotion is composed of four tablespoonfuls each of pure lemon juice, 
and best glycerine, and one teaspoonf ul of honey, dissolved in half 



THE TOILET. 719 

a pint oV rose water. Apply this to the hands at night, covering 
them with old kid gloves cutting out the palm for ventilation. 

Camphor ice is a valuable beautifier. To a small quantity of 
white wax (chemically pure), melted thoroughly, add a few drops 
of spirits of camphor, stirring it thoroughly into the liquid fat. 
When well-mixed and still warm, pour it into a small jar; when 
cold it should be of the consistency of cold cream. Apply it to the 
hands at night under gloves. 

Perspiration, which makes the hands clammy and moist, fre- 
quentby comes from no apparent cause, and unless the result of ill 
health, can be relieved, if not cured. 

An ounce of powdered alum, dissolved in a pint of hot water, 
and then allowed to cool, may be used as a wash (left to dry on) 
twice or thrice daily for at least a month. Rice powder used after 
washing is beneficial. An excellent wash is made of four ounces 
of cologne and one-half ounce of tincture of belladonna, and may 
be rubbed on the hands several times a day. 

Dry hands, where the skin grows rough and chapped in cooler 
weather, may be benefited by the use of some emollient that will 
soften and grease the skin, and thus prevent chapping. Vaseline 
is good for this purpose. Ordinary olive oil, used in small quanti- 
ties, will have the same effect. Hands which dry slowly after 
washing, should be rubbed vigorously with a good-sized piece of 
soft white flannel. 

Chilblains of the hands are not easily cured, and it is difficult 
to ward them off, as their attack usuall}- depends upon the general 
health. As a rule the}' will run their course, but lotions may alle- 
viate the pain and irritability. Soap liniment, to which has been 
added a few drops of chloroform, may be well rubbed into the af- 
flicted parts, in front of a blazing fire, before the chilblain has 
broken. After it is broken, though these precautions taken in time 
may prevent the rupture, an ointment should be applied that con- 
tains a certain amount of carbolic acid or iodine, or a little boracic 
acid ; spread it on a piece of medicated cotton wool, and apply to 
the raw surface. 

To remove a wart, tie a stout linen thread securely around its 
base, close to the finger, and pull the ends of the thread tight, till 



720 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

the excrescence has been cut through and shaven on* even with the 
skin. Apply a strong solution of baking soda and water to the 
raw surface, and continue the application tiil the wound is healed. 

THE NAILS. 

A little care of the nails each day is a far better method of pre- 
serving their beauty than to wait until the cuticle has half covered 
them and the edges are rough and uneven, before giving them at- 
tention. The smallest, whitest hand in the world, will not be beau- 
tiful or sightly, if it be tipped with badh'-shaped, ill-treated nails. 

The nail-biting mania, though broken early, leaves its traces in 
permanently disfigured finger tips, which, instead of tapering al- 
most to a point, are broad, flat and stumpy. Apply to the finger 
ends as a counter irritant a solution of bitter aloes, procurable of 
any chemist, and possessing a decidedly nauseous flavor. It has 
the additional advantage of being invisible after application. 

A common nail brush is the best nail cleaner in the world, and 
should be used vigorously and faithfull}*. The scarf skin at the 
base of the nails should be gently pushed back with a towel or 
ivory presser, every time the hands are wiped, to preserve and show 
the beauty of 'the "half moon " or lunula. The free border of the 
nails ma}- be treated with a knife or scissors and a nail file, while 
a presser should be used at their base to prevent the adhesion of 
the free margin of the scarf skin to the surface of the lunula and 
its growth forward with that part. The surface of the nails should 
never be scraped, nor the edges cleaned with any instrument sharper 
than the nail brush. 

To prevent the nails from breaking, if they become brittle, pour 
a few drops of almond oil on the nail and rub it well with the fin- 
ger of the other hand. Repeat nightly for some time, and encase 
the fingers in old gloves. For polishing the nails, rub with a dry 
piece of chamois leather, or preferably a nail buff, a simple contriv- 
ance for the toilet table made of a piece of curved wood with a 
handle and covered with chamois. 

"White spots on the nails are blemishes and each one the result of 
some bruise. There is no way to remove them, only exercise pa- 
tience with extreme care of the nail till it grows out. The nails of 
some people are more tender than others and more susceptible to 



THE TOILET. 721 

injury ; these should be carefully guarded against sharp or sudden 
contact with an}* substance, as a light touch is often sufficient to 
cause a bruise. Avoid using a sharp instrument at the base of the 
nail, as that is the most tender part, and the seat of the difficulty. 

THE HAIR. 

The head and hair should be kept thoroughly clean or the locks 
will grow scant and lifeless. Long hair should be cleansed once a 
month, oftener is not necessary. Short hair may be washed every 
day; it dries quickly, and no harm is done. 

The use of soda, borax or ammonia in washing is a fault. They 
change the color, the roots are injured, and the fibers grow brittle 
and lifeless. To remedy hair splitting, the ends should be singed 
every six weeks to seal up the brittle hollow tubes, and if the hair 
is uneven, roll it in small twists, aud singe these the entire length 
to catch all the ends. 

A certain amount of dandruff is an indication that the system is 
in a health}* condition and performing its proper functions. The 
small colorless particles, tkat gather where the roots of the hair end 
in a soft pulp, are but the impurities thrown off from a healthy skin. 
To prevent too great a waste, and an unpleasant amount of dan- 
druff, the head should be occasionally washed with a solution of one 
handful of salt in half a pint of rainwater. Soft rainwater is the 
most efficacious tonic in the world and the best soaps are tar and 
Castile. Applications of the salt wash keep the hair from full- 
ing out. Too much use of the comb at the toilet is not desirable, 
as the scalp is tender and the sharp teeth of the comb irritate it. 
Firm, steady strokes of the brush are far better. 

The use of a hot iron on the hair is injurious, though one moder- 
ately hot may be used daily, with no other effeqt than to give it a 
soft gloss. 

A fairly large brush should be used, neither very hard nor soft, 
with bristles long enough to go through the hair, not over it, reach- 
ing to the skin itself, and so invigorating the scalp. The hair should 
be divided in halves, and brushed carefully and well for rtt least ten 
minutes night and morning. 

Hair brushes may be cleaned by dipping the bristles into very 
hot water, and plunging them immediately afterward into cold water 



722 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

to prevent them from softening and loosening. Use ammonia or 
soda and water if the brush is very dirty. 

THE FEET. 

The tenderest parts of the body are the soles of the feet and the}' 
should be kept thoroughly clean, that the pores of the skin may act 
freely. Bathe the feet daily, and change the hose frequently. A 
woman's foot should rise at the instep, and be flat at the sole, for 
a firm grip on the ground in walking. Shoes should not have nar- 
row soles, that curve out in a crescent shape, as they tend to con- 
tract the foot. Each toe should be apart from its fellow, not jammed 
one against the other, that it may have free pk-13'. 

Corns are, almost without exception, the result of tight shoes. 
They are either hard or soft according to locality. If between the 
toes, and kept moist by perspiration, they are of the soft variety ; 
those on the outside are hard. These are produced b}* pressure or 
friction, and are simply a protective growth, thrown out for the pur- 
pose of preventing injury to the tissues. They are painful at all 
times, but cause great agony when an accumulation of pus forms 
beneath them. The escape of this pus is prevented b} T the hardened 
and thickened cuticle, which must be poulticed or soaked in warm 
water, and then removed with a sharp-pointed knife. The entire 
corn may be taken out with a little care and patient work, without 
drawing a drop of blood. The application of caustic should be 
avoided. Immediate though temporary relief from a painful sore 
corn may be obtained by applying strong carbolic acid, on the tip 
of a cork, until time is found to remove it with the knife. 

Bunions like corns are relieved by soaking in hot water. An onion 
poultice will draw out inflammation, and alleviate pain. Boil the 
onion whole, that none of the strength escape, and when quite soft, 
mash and apply in a soft cloth. 

Ingrowing nails are painful and difficult to deal with. Chiropo- 
dists advocate splitting the nail up the center, but this can only be 
done by a skilful hand, as there is danger of cutting too far down. 
Use hot water, and after prolonged soaking scrape the nail with a 
penknife, a little at a time. Ingrowing is sometimes prevented by 
raising the nail, with the blunt edge of the knife, and inserting a 
bit of linen lint or cotton wool ; if this is very painful, soak the roll 



THE TOILET. 723 

occasionally with carbolized oil. The nails should be cut squarely. 
Blisters may be prevented by rubbing the feet, after washing, with 
gtycerine. 

To cure intense perspiration of the feet, bathe them in tepid water 
once a day, if not oftener, and afterwards sponge with a strong so- 
lution of alum, prepared by dissolving an ounce of powdered alum 
in a pint of boiling water, and bottling for use ; or use carbolic acid 
in the water. After the feet are dry, dust them with powdered alum. 
The stockings should be changed frequently , and if the affliction is 
chronic, the}- should be of wool or spun silk, as these absorb the 
perspiration. 

C hilblains, in the preliminary stage, may often be frustrated by 
a good rubbing of the afflicted parts with camphor, before a good 
fire. , 

The extreme pointed toes of shoes may be kept in shape with a 
piece of wadding soaked in water, compressed into a plug, and al- 
lowed to harden in the shoe. 

Dulled patent leather is restored to lustre and brilliancy by rub- 
bing with a little butter on a soft flannel cloth. 



MISCELLANEOUS. 

BEDBUGS. — If they are in the walls and ceilings of the house, 
close doors and windows and burn sulphur, by pouring it 
upon live coals in an iron kettle placed in the middle of the room. 
Keep the room closed for twenty-four hours. 

Wafer Biscuits. — Bub a teaspoonful of butter into a pint of 
sifted flour ; add a little salt, and with the white of an egg and 
warm milk, mix a stiff, smooth paste. Beat with a rolling-pin for 
one-half an hour, the longer the better; form into little round 
balls, size of a pigeon's egg, and roll till the size of a saucer. 
Sprinkle the baking pans with a little flour, and bake with care. 
These may be made of oatmeal, or different grains, cut in any 
pi'etty shape, and served with tea, or nourishing liquids. 

Bluing. — Dissolve one ounce of pulverized Prussian blue, and 
one-half of oxalic acid in one quart of water. This will not spot. 

Borax. — Make a strong solution, so that a sediment will be 
left in the bottle. A few drops will remove stains from the hands, 
and help to heal scratches. Hard water ma}' be softened with it. 
Dry borax laid on a canker sore in the mouth often cures. 

Bruises. — Apply coarse, wet brown paper. It will reduce swell- 
ing, and prevent great discoloration. 

Burns. — Limewater, olive oil, and glycerine, equal parts ; ap- 
ply on lint. Baking soda, the bicarbonate, has been found to cure 
burns or scalds, affording immediate relief when it is promptly ap- 
plied. For a dry burn, the soda should be made into paste with 
water. Dust wet burned surfaces with powdered soda. 

Burning Feet. — Discard tight boots. Take one pint of bran 
and one ounce of bicarbonate of soda, put into a foot bath, adding 
one gallon of hot water ; when cool enough, soak the feet in this 
for fifteen minutes. The relief is instantaneous. This must be re- 
peated every night for a week or more. The burning sensation 
is produced by the porfrs of the skin being closed, so that the feet 
do not perspire. 

724 



MISCELLANEOUS. 725 

Charcoal. — If laid cold on a burn, it will speedily cause the 
pain to abate. In an hour, if the burn is superficial, the flesh will 
seem nearly healed. It will sweeten tainted meats. Strewn over 
foul-smelling heaps, it will prevent unpleasant odors. It will pu- 
rify bad water, and is a disinfectant if placed on shallow dishes 
around the room. It forms an excellent poultice for wounds and 
sores. A teaspoonful in half a glass of water often relieves sick 
headache. 

Chickadees in Winter — A cup of pumpkin seeds set on the 
window-sill will attract them, and they will become quite tame. 

The Complexion. — Bathing it in water in which orange skins 
have been boiled will give a fresh appearance. 

Cosmetic — Pure glycerine and water, each two ounces, vin- 
egar of cantharides one and one-half drachms. Apply at night and 
wash off in the morning with warm water. The outside cuticle will 
gradually be replaced. by a new one — fair, soft, and velvety. 

Curline. — Dissolve one drachm of spermaceti in one ounce of 
sweet almond oil by slow heat ; then add three drachms tincture 
of mastic. Apply a little when dressing the hair. 

Egg and Lime water. — To a wineglass of limewater add the 
white of one egg, beaten so that it will not string. Give this often 
to the patient in small quantities. It is excellent in obstinate vom- 
iting and irritation of the stomach. 

Egg Preserver. — Mix well twelve and one-half pounds of lime, 
three pounds of salt, one ounce each of saltpetre, pulverized huro 
bark, cream of tartar, four ounces of pure African Vo-ni-da, and 
put into twenty-five gallons of water. When well mixed, put in 
the eggs, letting the liquid rise four inches above them. The eggs 
will keep fresh for more than a year. Another Recipe. — Put one- 
half a pint of salt, one pint of unslacked lime, and three gallons of 
soft water into a jar that will hold six gallons. Put in the eggs 
slowly. If any rise, take them out. Fresh eggs will sink. This 
amount will preserve twenty-five dozen of eggs. 

Inflamed Eyes. — Bathe frequently in warm salt and water. 
A Blackened Eye. — Bathe with ver}' warm water, and apply raw 
beef. 

Fruits. — Grape fruit is almost as good as quinine for malarial 



726 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

troubles, and pineapple frequently cures sore throat. Tomatoes 
are perfect liver regulators — they contain a very small portion of 
mercury. Oranges act on the kidneys beneficially, while lemons 
and grapes are efficacious in curing and preventing cancerous 
troubles. Water-cresses act on the lungs, and are said to be a 
cure for incipient consumption. They have marvelous tonic power, 
and refresh one after great fatigue. A diet of grapes as a cure-all 
has been proved valuable in hundreds of cases, and, if taken in 
time, jaundice can be cured by eating nothing but lettuce and lemon 
juice. 

Furniture Filling. — Mix two gallons plaster of Paris, one pint 
of flour, one ounce each of pulverized pumice-stone and prepared 
chalk ; add one-half gallon of boiled oil, and one gill of Japan 
drying. 

Graham Gruel. — Mix one tablespoonful of graham meal in 
four tablespoonfuls of cold water ; stir it into a pint of boiling 
water ; cook twenty minutes, then stir in half a teaspoonfulof salt 
and cook ten minutes longer. Put a gill of this gruel into a cup, 
with half as much cream or milk, and serve hot. Com or Oatmeal 
Gruel. — Mix half a cupful of the meal with a little water; add a 
pint of boiling water, and boil twenty minutes. Sweeten to taste 
and spice with a little nutmeg. This makes a nice light nourish- 
ment for the sick or convalescent. 

Hair Lotion. — One pint of rosewater, one ounce of cologne, 
one-half ounce of vinegar of cantharides. The scalp should be 
brushed briskly until red, and the lotion applied daily. 

Hair Renewer. — Pour one pint of boiling water upon one 
ounce of oil of tar. Let it stand until cold, after stirring well. Skim 
and pour through a piece of cheesecloth, and add ba}- rum to give 
it a slightly milky appearance, after which add one-half ounce of 
extract of burdock root, and one-half drachm of tincture of lobelia. 
Brush the scalp thoroughly every day and apply renewer. Later, 
use two or three times a week. 

Hemorrhages. — Bleeding from the nose may be stopped by 
lying flat on the back, with the head raised, and the hands held 
above it. The nose must be covered with a cloth filled with pounded 
ice, or wrung out of ice-water. The head should never be held over 



MISCELLANEOUS. 727 

a basin, as the position encourages bleeding. The blood may be 
received on a wet sponge. Or, make little, hard wads of paper, 
place between the lip and the jaw, pressing them up firmly under 
the nose. 

When anyone coughs or spits up blood, the first thought is that 
it must be from the lungs. A slight knowledge of the character- 
istics of the blood from different parts that may come through the 
mouth will save much needless anxiety. 

Blood from the lungs is always bright red in color, because it 
has just been purified b}' contact with the air. It is froth}*, mixed 
with mucus, in small quantity, and is usually coughed up. 

Blood from the stomach is dark red, almost black, is mixed with 
particles of food, comes in large quantities, and is vomited. 

Blood from the mouth and gums is of a red color and usually 
mixed with saliva. Unless it has first been swallowed, it is not 
vomited or coughed up. 

In hemorrhage from the lungs, the head and shoulders must be 
raised. Some physicians recommend a tablespoonf ul of table salt to 
be given in a tumbler of water. It is always safe to give cracked ice. 

Bleeding from the stomach may be checked by the application 
of a mustard plaster over the stomach ; cracked ice should be 
given and the doctor sent for. 

In bleeding from wounds or recent amputation there are three 
things that may be done : 

First, press the finger or the hand over the bleeding point. 

Second, press on the main artery supplying the wound, or, if 
this cannot be found, apply a bandage as tightly as possible above 
the wound. An excellent tourniquet may be improvised by knot- 
ting a handkerchief loosely around the limb, thrusting a short stick 
through it and twisting it tight. The blood from an artery is bright 
red and comes in spurts with each beat of the heart, while that from 
the veins is a dark purplish color and flows in a steady stream. 
When the bleeding is from an artery, the pressure should be ap- 
plied between the wound and the heart ; when from a vein, the limb 
must be compressed be3 - ond the wound. 

Third, raise the part above the rest of the body, that the blood 
may drain out of it, and support it on pillows. It should be bathed 



728 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

in ice-water and have ice wrapped in cotton cloths laid on it. If 
f aintness ensues, the sufferer should not be immediately roused, as 
this is nature's remedy, and acts by lessening the force and activ- 
ity of the circulation. If any part of the body has been cut off, it 
should be cleaned of foreign matter, and at once replaced, wrapped 
in cotton to retain warmth, and a gentle pressure kept on it to re- 
tain it in place. Circulation is often restored and the union made 
complete. 

Ice Cream. — To prevent its chilling the stomach, dust it with 
a little pepper. The cream destroys the taste of the pepper. 

Insects. — A solution of cyanide of potassium will kill them. 

Kerosene. — Excellent clear, or in water, for washing windows. 
Do not use soap. Use a cloth on which it has been poured, to pre- 
vent irons from sticking, or to clean them while ironing. If spilled 
on the carpet, cover the spot with a thick layer of buckwheat or 
corn meal flour. If the spot is fresh it will be removed in twenty 
minutes. 

Limewater. — Place a piece of unslaked lime, size is immate- 
rial as the water will take up only a certain quantity, in a clean 
bottle, and fill with cold water ; keep corked in a cellar or cool, 
dark place ; it is ready for use in a few minutes, and the clear 
limewater may be used whenever it is needed. When the water is 
poured off, add more ; do this three times, after which use new 
time. A teaspoonf ul in a cupful of milk is a remedy for children's 
summer complaint, for acidity of the stomach, and when added to 
milk it kas no unpleasant taste. When put into milk that would 
otherwise curdle when heated, it prevents its curdling. A small 
quantity will prevent the "turning" of cream and milk. It sweet- 
ens and purifies bottles which have contained milk. Some add a 
cupful to a sponge of bread to prevent it from souring. 

Mildew. — Make a soft paste of two parts powdered starch, one 
part salt, and the juice of a lemon. Apply with a brush and let the 
goods lie on the grass twenty-four hours. Or, dissolve two ounces 
of chloride of lime in one quart of hot water; then add three 
quarts of cold water and steep the cloth in this for ten hours. Or, 
mix oxalic acid, citric acid, and milk ; apply to the cloth, rinse 



MISCELLANEOUS. 72!) 

well, and bleach it on the grass. Or, rub a mixture of soap, salt 
and starch on the spot, and place in the sun. 

Moths. — Remove from the room or closet everything that burn- 
ing camphor will injure. Leave all woolens, etc., hanging. Put 
a small piece of camphor into an iron dish on an iron or earthen 
stand ; set it on fire ; it burns quickly, and nothing should be near 
it. Leave the doors closed for an hour, then open them wide ; re- 
move everything and hang to air thoroughly. 

Oak or Ivy Poisoning. —Mix ten or twenty drops of bromine 
with one ounce of olive oil or glycerated vaseline. Apply three 
times a day. 

Oilcloths. — Wash in milk and water, and varnish yearly. 

To Extract Oil prom Marble or Stone. — Soft soap, one part ; 
fuller's earth, two parts ; potash, one part; mix with boiling water. 
Lay it on the spots of grease, and let it remain for a few hours. 

Onions. — They break up a cold and, roasted, are a laxative. If 
there is a cough with a tightness in the chest, give the juice 
squeezed from roasted onions, to which sugar has been added to 
form a syrup. Grease the, throat and chest with lard, in which 
onions have been fried, applying flannel afterward. For sore 
throat, apply a warm poultice of roasted onions. A raw onion 
eaten for supper often prevents wakefulness at night. Sliced, 
roasted onions, bound on the feet, are useful in breaking up a cold 
or fever. Sliced, raw onions placed in rooms where there are fe- 
ver or smallpox patients, and changed every few hours, or when 
they begin to look green, or slim}', absorb much of the poison. 
Burn the onions immediately. The dail}' use of onions is said 
to prevent dysentery and fever. If onions are mashed fine and 
applied at once to a snake bite, the poison will be drawn from the 
wound. The onion should be raw in this case, and renewed at 
short intervals. The poison will show green on the poultice. To 
remove the odor from the breath, eat parsley and vinegar ; from 
the hands, rub them with celery. 

Cracker Panada. — Put three or four crackers into a sauce- 
pan and barely cover them with boiling water. Boil two or three 
minutes; pour off the surplus water, and add enough hot milk or 



730 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

cream to soak them. Sweeten with powdered sugar. Good for an 
invalid. 

A Good Paste. — Take one pint of cold water and two heaping 
tablespoonf uls of flour. Put the flour in a pan, add a little of the 
water, stirring until smooth ; then add the rest of the water, stir- 
ring slowly ; place on the stove and stir constantly until it boils. 
After taking from the stove, add one-fourth of a teaspoonful of 
ground cloves to keep it sweet. 

Meat Pate. — Scrape a piece of lean beefsteak with a very dull 
knife. This removes the tender meat fibres, and leaves the tough 
connecting tissue ; press the tender fibres into a thin cake or pate 
and broil on a toasting fork over a very hot fire. Season to taste. 

Pearls. — Keep them in common, dry magnesia, instead of the 
cotton wool used in jewel cases, and they will never lose their 
brilliancy. 

Excellent Tooth Powder. — Mix equal parts of powdered 
chalk and charcoal with a little pure castile soap rubbed fine. 

Quail on Toast. — Take a quail, split it down the back, remove 
the entrails and wipe it clean ; after dredging with salt broil ten 
minutes over a clear fire. Serve at once on a slice of toast, laying 
the quail on the toast, breast up. A little butter may be spread 
on the bird before broiling, and flour sprinkled on it, if the invalid 
is not veiy sick. 

Rice. Fresh boiled rice, with the juice of roast beef or mutton, 

and served on a piece of toast is nice for those who need easily 
digested and nourishing food. 

Salt. — With water, it makes an excellent gargle for a sore 
throat, and may be used as an emetic in cases of poisoning. A 
teaspoonful of salt in water is excellent to give for a hemorrhage, 
until a physician arrives. Wet salt, applied to a bee sting, gives 
quick relief. Salt is a mordant for many colors, and should be 
used in washing black dress goods, hosiery, etc. , to set the color. It 
o-ives a fine polish to brass, and mixed with vinegar cleans mica 
in stove windows. Mixed with lemon juice or cream of tartar, it 
will remove rust from iron or steel. It aids benzine, ammonia or 
alcohol in removing grease spots, and causes a brilliant, white 
light, if a little is dissolved in kerosene. Rub the lamp chimney, 



MISCELLANEOUS. 731 

after washing, with dry salt. A deposit formed inside of wash- 
bowls, etc., may be taken off by rubbing in the same way. Rub 
dry salt into the scalp at regular intervals, to prevent the hair 
from falling and give a healthy tone to the skin. Strong salt and 
water is a good skin stimulant. Rub with a bath towel. 

Waterproof Shoes. — Dissolve beeswax and add a little sweet 
oil. Before the shoes are worn, warm the soles and pour on the 
melted wax little by little, holding them close to the fire till it soaks 
into the leather; then add more till the leather ceases to absorb it. 
Coon oil softens and preserves leather, and castor oil will keep the 
soles from easily absorbing water. 

To Keep Silk. — Silk goods should not be folded in white paper, 
as the chloride of lime used in bleaching the paper will impair the 
color of the silk. Brown or blue paper is better ; yellow India 
paper is better still. Silk intended for a dress should not be kept 
in the house long, as l}'ing in folds causes it to crack or split. 
White satin dresses should be pinned up in blue paper, with coarse 
brown paper on the outside, and sewed together on the edge. 

A Good Hard Soap. — Take six pounds of sal soda, six pounds 
of lard, three pounds of stone lime, and four gallons of soft water. 
Dissolve the lime and soda in the water, stirring it frequentl}' as 
it boils; when dissolved, let it settle and pour off the liquid care- 
full}' ; add the lard, and let it boil until it thickens, then stir in one 
ounce of sassafras oil. This soap is nice for laundry and toilet 
purposes. 

Yankee Shaving Soap. — Take three pounds of white bar soap ; 
one pound of castile soap ; one quart of rain water ; one-half pint 
of beef's gall ; one gill of spirits of turpentine. Cut the soap into 
thin slices, and boil five minutes after the soap is dissolved; stir 
while boiling ; perfume with oil of rose or almonds. Use one-half 
ounce of vermilion for coloring. 

Toilet Soap. — A great deal in use is harmful. All the cheaper 
kinds are made up of inferior ingredients ; of poor or rancid fats 
and strong alkalies. Pure uncolored soap is either yellow or white, 
and any other color comes from the use of dyes. The color in 
green soap is produced by chrome, rose color by cinnabar, and reds 
by aniline colors. The transparent soaps are no better than the 



732 HOUSEKEEPER COOK BOOK. 

others except in appearance. The}* are made by dissolving dr}* 
tallow soap in alcohol. Plain white Castile soap is reliable, and can 
be used as a dentifrice, for the bath, and for a hair shampoo. 
Here are three recipes for pure soap that can be made at home. 
Almond Soap. — Finest lard, three ounces; bitter almonds, two 
ounces ; sweet almonds, two ounces ; oil of almonds, one ounce. 
If people would bear in mind how poisonous are many of the soaps 
for sale they would escape the skin diseases brought about by their 
use. Good soap costs but a few cents more than the poor, and in 
the end is much cheaper. Glycerine Soap. — Pure glycerine, three 
ounces; spermaceti, three drachms ; pure fat, five ounces ; essence 
of lavender, two ounces. Rose Soap. — White wax, one ounce ; 
finest lard, five ounces ; sweet almonds, two ounces ; essence of 
rose, three ounces ; eau de cologne, three ounces. 

Snake Bites. — Make a stiff paste of the yolk of an egg and 
table salt. Apply at once. 

Stains. — Soak blood stains in kerosene, or moisten and rub 
thoroughly with soap, and let them wait sometime before washing. 
Grass Stains. — Wet them thoroughly with camphor before wash- 
ing, and dry in the sun. Or, wet with soft soap and soda and 
place for twenty minutes in the sun. 

Stove Cracks. — Fill them with a paste of equal parts of ashes 
and salt, mixed with water. 

Stoves. — Rub, with the pipe, when putting away in the spring, 
with linseed oil, to preyent rusting. If rusted, rub with the oil, 
and keep a slow fire in them till dry. 

Turpentine. — Good to remove fresh paint from woolen cloths, 
ink from white woodwork, and the soreness from bruises or swell- 
ings if carefully applied. 

Vinegar Whey. — Take half a pint of hot milk, and stir one ta- 
blespoonful of strong vinegar into it and boil. When the clear 
whe}- separates from the milk it will be done. Strain off. Two 
tablespoonf uls of vinegar may be used, if it is not very strong. 

Rusty Nail Wound. — Smoke this, or any inflamed wound, over 
the fumes of burning woolen cloth, wool, or sugar, for fifteen min- 
utes, and the pain will be taken out. 



ALPHABETICAL INDEX 



Almonds. 

Burnt 153 

Cake 120 

Cream 154 

Grilled 154 

Macaroons 161 

Salted 154 

To Blanch 95 

" Select.. 296 

Ambrosia 330 

Apple. 

And Quinces, canned 299 

Baked 330 

Butter 306 

Canned, sauce • 299 

Cobbler 184 

Compote • 330 

Cream 169 

Custard 173 

Dried, sauce 328 

" Pie 185 

Dumplings 208 

Fried 331 

Fritters 72 

Iced 331 

Jam 307 

Jelly 311 

" Crab 312 

Jellied 331 

Marmalade 308 

Pickles, sweet 429 

Pie 184 

" Custard 185 

" Dried 185 

" Meringue 185 

Pudding 208 

Roily-Poly 209 

Snow l ?8 

Tarts 200 

Tapioca 179 

Artichokes 419 



Page 

Asparagus 479 

Ambushed 479 

And Eggs 479 

Omelet 263 

Soup 465 

Stewed 480 

Bacon 373 

Baked Beans 480 

Cream 480 

Pork and Beans 374 

Baking 10 

Bananas. 

Compote 332 

Custard 174 

Fried 331 

Ice Cream 339 

Pudding 209 

Bannock 49 

Graham 49 

Scotch Currant 50 

Batter. 

Buckwheat 80 

Cakes 80 

" without Milk 80 

Convenient 49 

Plain Fritters. • W 

Beans. 

Baked 480 

Lima 481 

Pickled 420 

Pork and 374 

Shelled 4S| 

Soup ***> 

StringandWax 480 

Beets. 

Pickled 4 20 

To boil 481 

Beef. 349 

A la mode 354 

7^? 



734 



ALPHABETICAL INDEX. 



Beef. 

Boiled 352 

Canned 352 

Dried 413-401 

Heart 353 

" stuffed 353 

How to cure 412 

" "carve 410 

Loaf 353 

Ragoutof 355 

Roast 355 

Smothered 357 

Soup • - 466 

Spiced 355 

Stew, a Brown 358 

" with Dumplings 358 

Stewed 357 

Steak stuffed 401 

" for winter use 413 

" Pie 405 

" with Tomatoes 352 

Tongue 359 

Tripe 414 

Berries. 

Canned 299 

Biscuits. 

Abernethy 36 

Baking Powder 36 

Berlin Wreaths 36 

Breakfast 36 

Butter 32 

Buttermilk 32 

Chocolate 36 

Cream 37 

" 32 

Dessert 37 

Devilled 443 

Egg 33 

English 37 

Feather 33 

Graham 33 

" Fingers and Thumbs •• 34 

Hard 34 

High 34 

Iced 38 

Jasmine 37 

Lemon 38 

" Peel 37 

Lisbon 38 

Maryland 35 

Maple Sugar 39 

Nun's 38 

Potato 35 



Biscuits. 

Queen's 39 

Raised 32 

Rock 39 

Savoy 39 

Sugar • — 39 

Vienna 35 

Water 35 

Birds. 

Roast 363 

Blanc Mange. 

Arrow-root 167 

Chocolate 167 

Cornstarch 167 

Irish Moss 167 

Boiled Dinner 487 

Bouillon 458 

Bread. 

All about 7 

Baking Powder- • 24 

Brown, Boston 25 

" Kansas 26 

" Jo 26 

" Loaf 26 

" Raised 28 

" Steamed ■ . 26 

" 27 

" Quick 28 

Coffee 21 

Corn 27 

Entire Wheat 27 

Graham 29 

" Buttermilk 29 

" Quick 29 

Grandma's 20 

Hop Yeast 18 

Milk 21 

Mother's 16 

Potato Ball 22 

" Sponge 22 

Raised Once 16 

Twice 17 

" Three Times 17 

Rice 22 

Rye 28 

" 30 

" and Indian 30 

Salt Rising 23 

Tennessee Egg 27 

Vienna 25 

Winter 21 



ALPHABETICAL INDEX. 



735 



Page 

Bread- 

With buttermilk 23 

" mush 27 

Without kneading 21 

Yeast and bread together 19 

Breakfast Cakes. 

Bannocks 49 

Biscuit 31 

Blueberry 50 

Buns 46 

Cinnamon 51 

Corn Meal 52 

Corn Oysters 79 

Cottage 53 

Crumpets 56 

Crullers 67 

Crackers 55 

Cracknels 55 

Doughnuts 67 

Fritters 71 

Gems 56 

German Coffee 51 

Griddle 79 

Johnny Cakes 54 

Muffins 56 

Mush 86 

Oat 63 

Pancakes 7J 

Pone 63 

Pop Overs 63 

Potato 63 

Puffs 64 

Rice 64 

Rolls 40 

Rusks 46 

Sally Lunn 65 

Snow Cakes 65 

Toast 90 

Waffles 65 

Zimmetkuche 51 

Broth. 

Chicken 464 

Mutton 373 464 

Scotch 464 

Broiling. 

Beefsteak 350 

Chickens 382 

Frogs' Legs 365 

Pheasant 367 

Pigeons 387 

Quail 368 

Venison • 370 



Buckwheat. 

Batter 80 

Cakes so 

Buns 4u 

Cinnamon 47 

Hot-Cross 47 

New England 47 

Nobby 48 

Quick 48 

Spanish 48 

Butter. 

Apple 306 

French 201 

Pumpkin 30s 

Rhubarb 307 

Cabbage. 

Baked 481 

Boiled 482 

Creamed 482 

Fried 482 

Heidelberg 482 

Stuffed 483 

Cake 94-98 

Almond, Hickory Nut or Cocoa- 
nut 99 

Angel's Food 98 

Beautiful 99 

Black 99-100 

Bread 103 

Bride's 100 

Buford 100 

Caramel 100 

Chocolate 101 

Cincinnati 102 

Cocoanut 102 

Coffee 102 

Cream 103 

Cup, old rule 103 

" modern 103 

Delicate 103 

Eggless 104 

Election 104 

" Hartford 104 

English Christmas 105 

Everlasting 105 

Fig. choice 105 

Fruit, Apple 105 

" Excellent 106 

" Hickory-nut 106 

" Minnesota ioe 

" Poor Man's 100 

" Scotch 107 



736 



ALPHABETICAL INDEX. 



Cake. 

Fruit, Thanksgiving 107 

White 107 

Gold 108 

Groom's 108 

Hard Money 108 

Hickory -nut 108 109 

Imperial 109 

Indian Pound 109 

Lady's 110 

Yellow no 

Lemon • 110 

Lincoln 110 

Loaf, Aunt Hettie's 110 

" Cocoanut Ill 

" Old Fashioned Ill 

Marble ill 

One Egg 112 

Orange 112 

Plain 112 

Plum 112 

Pound Citron 112 

" Pyramid 113 

White 113 

Rice 113 

" Sponge 114 

Scotch 114 

Sheridan Phil 114 

Snow 114 

Snowball 114 

Soda 115 

Spice 115 

Sponge Best 115 

" Five-minute 115 

" Old-fashioned 115 

" one, two and three — 116 

White 116 

Ten Minute 116 

Tilden 117 

Tin Wedding 117 

Water Melon 117 

Wedding 117 

Quick 118 

Whipped Cream 118 

White Perfection 118 

White 119 

Wonder 119 

Yellow 119 

Cakes, Layer. 

Almond 120 

Cream 120 

Banana 120 

Caramel 121 



Page 

Cakes, Layer. 

Caramel, Chocolate 121 

Cup 124 

Chocolate 121 

Delicious 122 

" Novel 122 

Cocoanut 122 

Cream 123 

" French 123 

" Golden 123 

Puffs 124 

Puffs, Dixie 124 

Dominoes 125 

Fig 126 

Fillings for 132 

Hickory Nut 126 

Ice Cream 127 

Icing for 133 

Jelly 127 

" Rolled.... 127 

Lady Fingers — 128 

Lemon — 129 

Metropolitan 129 

Minnehaha 129 

Neapolitan 130 

One Egg 130 

Orange 130 

Ribbon 131 

Velvet Sponge 131 

White Mountain. 131 

Wonder 131 

Calf's Head 391 

Head and Feet 407 

Catsups. 

Cold 436 

Cucumber 436 

Currant 436 

Gooseberry 436 

Grape 437 

Mushroom 437 

Superior 437 

Tomato 438 

" Green 437 

Walnut. 438 

Worcestershire .. 438 

Cans. 

Fruit 297 

Vegetable 505 

Canning Fruits 296 

Apple Sauce 209_ 

Apples and Quinces 299 

Berries 299 



ALPHABETICAL INDEX. 



737 



~ „ Pa » e 
Canning Fruits. 

Berries, plain 299 

Blackberries 299 

Blueberries 300 

Cherries 300 

Citron 300 

Currants 300 

Elderberries 301 

Fruit Juices 301 

Gooseberries 301 

Grapes 301 

Green Gages 303 

Peaches 302 

Peaches Steamed 302 

Pears 303 

Pine-apple 303 

Plums 303 

Plums, to keep 303 

Raspberries 301 

Raspberries, with Currant 

Juice 301 

Rhubarb 304 

Strawberries 305 

Watermelon 305 

Canning Vegetables 505 

Beans, Lima 506 

" String 506 

Corn 506 

Corn for winter use 506 

Dried Sweet Potatoes 508 

Peas 507 

Peas, to dry 507 

Tomatoes 508 

Carrots. 

Creamed 483 

Fried 483 

Lyonnaise 483 

Carbohydrates 620 

Starches 520 

Sugars 521 

Carve, how to 409 

Cauliflower. 

Pickled »420 

Scalloped 484 

To Prepare 483 

With Tomatoes 484 

Caramel. 

Cake, Cup 124 

Cake 100-121 

Chocolate 158 

Cocoanut — 158 

Coloring 162 



Page 

Caramel. 

Pudding 211 

Sauce 227 

Syrup Foundation 168 

Celery. 

Fritters 484 

Soup 468 

Stewed 484 

Cherries. 

Canning 300 

Jelly 313 

Marmalade 308 

Preserves 320 

Pudding 211 

Charlotte Russb 168 

Cheese 

AndEggs 444 

Cottage 443 

Fondu 445 

Head 416 

Pudding 211 

Ramakins 445 

Sandwiches 445 

Scalloped 444 

Straws 445 

Toast 446 

Toasted — 444 

Veal 409 

Welch Rarebit 446 

Chicken. 

Baked 380 

" with Parsnips 381 

Boiled 381 

Breaded 381 

Broth 464 

Broiled 382 

Croquettes 402 

Fricassee 382 

Fried 383 

" Gumbo 383 

In Cream 382 

Jellied 383 

Pickled 384 

Pie 384 

Pie with Oysters 386 

Pilau 406 

Prairie 363 

Pressed 384 

Pudding 407 

Roasted 385 

Salad 451 

Steamed 385 

Stew with Dumplings 386 



738 



ALPHABETICAL INDEX. 



Page 

Chocolate. 

Egg 239 

Pierre Blat's 238 

Vienna 239 

Chowchow 421 

Chowder. 

Clam 284 

Corn 485 

Fish 272 

Lobster 285 

Citron. 

Candied Peel 320 

Canned 300 

Ice 345 

Preserves 320-321 

Clams. 

Bake Seaside 283 

Chowder 284 

Fried 284 

Scalloped 284 

Soup 468 

Stew 284 

Cobbler. 

Apple 184 

Cocoa 239 

Codfish. 

A la mode 277 

Balls 277 

Boiled 277 

Breakfast 278 

Hash 278 

Salt 278 

Coffee 233 

And egg 234 

Army 234 

Cafe aii Lait 236 

" Noir 236 

Filtered 234 

For one hundred 236 

French 235 

Iced 236 

Jelly 313 

Prairie 237 

Rich and strong 237 

Steamed 237 

Substitute for cream in 237 

"The Housekeeper" 235 

Vienna 237 

"With whipped eream 234 

Coloring. 

For cake 152 



Coloring. 

For candies 152 

" soups 460 

Cook's Time Table 509 

Cold Slaw. 

Old-fashioned 456 

Southern 457 

Cookies. 

Ada's Sugar 138 

Cheap 138 

Crisp 139 

Crisp without Soda 139 

Eggless 139 

Fruit 139 

Ginger 145 

Grandmother's 140 

Honey 140 

Molasses 147 

Mother's 140 

Nutmeg 140 

Oatmeal 140 

Oatmeal Cake or 140 

Premium Graham 139 

Spiced 141 

Splendid 141 

White 141 

Confectionery. 

Almonds, Burnt 153 

" Cream 154 

" Grilled 154 

" Macaroons 161 

Salted 154 

Baltimore Kisses 161 

Barley Sugar 163 

Burnt Almonds 153 

Buttered Taffy 164 

Candy, any flavor 155 

" Chocolate Ice Cream 155 

" Everton Ice Cream — 156 

" Hoarhound 156 

" Ice Cream 156 

" Maple Sugar 157 

" Molasses 157 

" Molasses, Old-fashioned 157 

" Peanut 157 

Pecan Nut 157 

" Vanilla Sugar 157 

Candied Flag-root 160 

Caramels, Chocolate 158 

Cocoanut 158 

Syrup Foundation • • 158 

Cocoanut Steeples 163 



ALPHABETICAL INDEX. 



739 



Confectionery. 

Cones, Cocoanut ir>:> 

Cones, Hickory nut ir>9 

Cream Bonbons 155 

Cream Chocolate 159 

Creamed Nuts 163 

Drops, Chocolate 157 

Drops, Jelly IGO 

Drops, Pastille IGO 

Lozenges . . 160 

Lozenges, Coltsfoot 161 

Macaroons, Almond 161 

Chocolate 162 

" Cocoanut 162 

Marshmallows 162 

Taffy, Glorious Vanilla 164 

Toffee, Genuine Everton 164 

Corn. 

Bread 27 

Cake 52 

Cakes 485 

Canned 506 

Chowder 485 

Dodgers 82 

For Winter 507 

Fritters 73 

Gems 57 

Hulled 485 

Johnny Cake 53 

Mock Oysters 485 

Mush 87 

Oysters 70 

Pudding 486 

Roasted Green 485 

Soup 469 

Stewed 486 

Stewed Dried 486 

Crab. 

Soft Shell, boiled 284 

fried 285 

Crackers 54 

Egg 55 

French 65 

Toast 92 

Cracknels 55 

Crumpets 55 

English 56 

Cream Tartar. 

How to use 31 

Cranberry. 

Sauce 328 



Page 

Cream. 

Apple 169 

Bohemian 159 

Buttercup 170 

Chocolate Bavarian 169 

Coffee 170 

Hamburg 170 

Italian 170 

Orange 171 

Rice 171 

Rock 172 

Spanish 172 

Velvet 172 

Whipped 172 

Crullers 67-68 

Cucumbers 486 

Cure Meat, how to 412 

Currant. 

Green Sauce 328 

Ice 345 

Jelly 314 

Jelly without cooking 314 

Custards. 

Almond 173 

Apple 173 

Apple Snow 178 

Baked 173 

Banana 174 

Charlotte Russe 168 

Cheap 174 

Coffee 174 

Cornstarch 174 

Floating Island 177 

Gooseberry Fool 176 

Hominy 174 

Moonshine. 177 

Orange 175 

Rice 175 

Sauce 228 

Snow. 175 

Snow-ball 177 

Snow Cocoanut 178 

Souffle Custard 178 

Souffle Orange 17s 

Steamed 176 

Tapioca Apple 179 

" Blackberry 179 

Whip Prune i7;i 

Whip Tapioca 179 

Dandelions 188 

Dksserts. 

Blancmanges 1G7 



740 



ALPHABETICAL INDEX. 



Page 

Desserts. 

Creams and Custards 165 

Creams 169 

Custards 173 

Fruit 330 

Ornamental Pastry 201 

Pastry ISO 

Puddings 206 

Pudding Sauces 227 

Russe 168 

Dodgers, Corn 82 

Doughnuts. 

Common • 69 

Cream 69 

New England Raised 70 

Piecrust 69 

Raised 70 

Dried. 

Apple Sauce 328 

Peach Sauce 329 

Peas 507 

Prunes 329 

Sweet Potato 508 

Drinks. 

Alkathrepta 239 

Black Currant Cup 243 

Chocolate and Cocoa 238 

Coffee 233 

Cream Nectar 244 

Cream Soda 246 

Egg Lemonade 244 

Egg-Nog 245 

Fruit Beverages 242 

Fruit Syrups 245 

Ginger Beer 241 

Grandmother's Harvest 243 

Grape Shrub 246 

Hot Milk 244 

Imperial Nectar 245 

Koumyss 243 

Lemonade 243 

Lemon Beer 242 

Lemon Punch 245 

Lemon and Orange Syrup • • • • 246 

Lemon Syrup 247 

Mead 244 

Orangeade 245 

Raspberrv Shrub 246 

RootBeer 242 

Tamarind Water 247 

Tea 240 

Unfermented Communion 

Wine 247 



Page 

Drinks. 

Unfermented Grape Wine 247 

Wild Grape Wine. 247 

Dressing. 

Salad 448 

Drops. 

Chocolate 159 

Jelly 160 

Pastille 160 

Duck. 

Roasted 386 

Stewed 386 

Dumplings. 

Beef 358 

Boiled Apple 208 

Chicken 386 

Rolled Apple 209 

Eels 267 

" to fry 273 

Eggs 248 

Au Lit 256 

A la Creme 253 

Baked 250 

Baskets 251 

Birds' Nests 251 

Boiled 251 

hard 252 

Breaded 252 

Brouille . 252 

Curried • 253 

Deviled 253 

Fondu 254 

Fried 255 

Fricasseed 254 

Frizzled 254 

Frothed 255 

Gems 255 

Ham and 256 

Omelets 261 

Pickled 256 

Picnic 257 

Poached 257 

Potted 257 

Sandwiches 257 

Sauces 279 

Scalloped 259 

Scrambled 259 

Scotch Woodcock 261 

Steamed 260 

Stuffed 260 

Swiss 261 



ALPHABETICAL INDEX. 



741 



Eggs. 

With Celery sauce 258 

" Curry " 258 

" Tomato " 259 

Egg Plant, Baked 487 

Elderberry. 

Jelly 315 

Pickles 432 

Fish : 266 

Baked • 272 

" in camp fire 272 

Codfish, fresh, boiled 273 

" Boiled 277 

" Balls 277 

" a la Mode 277 

" Breakfast 278 

" Hash 278 

" Salt 278 

Chowder 272 

Fried 273 

Garnishes 271 

Halibut, baked 273 

In season 266 

Mackerel, salt, baked 278 

" " boiled 279 

Miscellaneous 271 

Napes and Fins 279 

Pickerel, baked 274 

Potted 274 

Recipes for cooking 272 

Salt Fish. 277 

Salmon, boiled _ 274 

" broiled 274 

canned 274 

Sauces 279 

Shad, baked 275 

Shellfish 282 

Steamed 276 

Stewed 276 

Terrapin 292 

Tongues and Sounds 278 

Trout. Brook 275 

Turbot 275 

Turtle, boiled 272 

White, baked 276 

" boiled 276 

" broiled 276 

Flour 7 

Brands, straight 8 

Buckwheat 9 

Graham 9 

How selected 8 



Page 

Flour. 

How kept — 8 

Oats aud Corn 7 

Foods 512 

Bread 623 

Carbohydrates 520 

Fats 521 

Proteids 513 

Water 512 

Yeast 522 

Frogs' Legs. 

Broiled 365 

Fried 365 

Frosting. (See Icing.) 133 

Fruit 294 

Canned 296 

Cooking, time for 298 

Desserts, Miscellaneous 330 

Drinks 242 

Fritters 74 

Jams 306 

Jellies 311 

Pickles 428 

Pies 194 

Preserves 319 

Puddings 208 

Sauces 326 

Tarts 204 

Fried Cakes • 67 

Fritters 71 

Apple 72 

Batter 72 

Bell 73 

Clam 73 

Corn 73 

" Canned 74 

" Oyster 73 

Cream 74 

Fruit 74 

Hominy 74 

Lemon 74 

Orange 75 

Oyster 76 

Parsnip 76 

Peach 76 

" and Pineapple 75 

Pineapple • • • 77 

Potato 77 

Queen 77 

Rice 77 

" Alabama 78 

Squash 78 



74< 



ALPHABETICAL INDEX. 



Fritters. 

Vanities 78 

Fuel, kinds and use 576 

Game 360 

Birds, roast 363 

Ducks, roasted 386 364 

" boiled 364 

" stewed 386 

Frogs' Legs, broiled 365 

" fried 365 

Goose, roasted 386, 365 

Grouse, larded 366 

Guinea Fowl 387 

Moose 366 

Opossum • — 366 

Partridges 366 

Peacock 366 

Pheasant, broiled 367 

Pigeons, potted 367 

stuffed 367 

Pie 387 

broiled 387 

roasted 387 

Prairie Chickens 367 

Quails, broiled 368 

" roasted 368 

on Toast 368 

Babbits 368 

" and Hares 360 

Snipe 360 

Turkey or Brant, roasted 360 

Venison 360 

" Haunch, roasted 360 

" Saddle of, " 370 

" Steak, broiled 370 

Woodcock 370 

Gems. 

Banana 57 

Corn Meal 57 

Gems 50 

Graham 58 

Oatmeal 50 

" raised 50 

Wheaten 60 

Wheat Entire 58 

Gingerbread. 

Alum 1413 

Cakes 145 

Cookies 145 

Drops 146 

Excellent 143 

Gingerbread 144 

Ginger Cake 144 



P;igc 

Gingerbread. 

Molasses Cookies 147 

Nut Wafers 147 

Pepper Nuts 147 

Soft 144 

Sorghum 144 

Cake 144 

Sponge 145 

Snaps 146 

Goose. 

Wild, roasted 365 

Gooseberry. 

Catsup 436 

Green 301 

Jelly '315 

Marmalade 300 

Pickles 432 

Sauce 320 

Grapes. 

Canned 301 

Catsup • 437 

Jelly 315 

" Spiced 316 

Marmalade 300 

Pickles 432 

Preserve 321 

Preserved in bunches 322 

Sauce 320 

Grapefruit 332 

Granger Pje 101 

Gravy. (See Sauces.) 

Greens 488 

Griddle Cakes 70 

Batter 80 

without Milk 80 

Buckwheat 80 

Batter 80 

Excellent 81 

Buttermilk 81 

CornMeal 82 

Corn Dodgers 82 

CrumbCakes 82 

Flannel Cakes, raised 83 

" 83 

French 83 

Fried Bread 82 

Graham Pats 83 

84 

Hominy 84 

Indian Pancakes 84 

Oat Meal Cakes 84 

Pancakes 84 



ALPHABETICAL INDEX. 



743 



rage 

Griddle Cakes. 

Potato Pancakes 85 

Rice 85 

Squash Pancakes 85 

Grouse 365 

Panned 366 

Gumbo. 

Fillet 470 

Fried 383 

Soup 470 

Halibut. 

Baked 273 

In season 270 

Ham. 

And Eggs 256 

Boiled 375 

Boned 376 

Broiled 376 

Cold t . 376 

Fried 376 

How to carve 410 

" " cure 414 

" " keep 415 

" " smoke 416 

Omelet 264 

Pie •••• 406 

Porcupine 377 

Sandwiches 408 

Hash 403 

Codfish ... 278 

Potato 496 

Turkey 404 

Vegetable 489 

Head Cheese 416 

Hoe Cake 53 

Hominy Muffins 00 

Horseradish. 

Prepared 438 

Sauce 280 

Vinegar ; 442 

Huckleberry Pie 191 

Hulled Corn 485 

Ices. 

Citron :>4. r > 

Currant.Raspberry, Strawberry 345 

Fruit 344 

Fruits, frozen 344 

Lemon or Orange 345 

Sherberts 346 

Pineapple 340 



Pat:e 

Ices. 

Tea 241 

TuttiFrutti 345 

Icing 127-133 

Almond 134 

Boiled 134 

without Eggs 134 

Chocolate 135 

Coffee 135 

Confectioner's 135 

Gelatine 136 

Icing 136 

Lemon 137 

Simple 137 

Tutti Frutti 137 

Windom 137 

Yellow 137 

Ice Cream 336 

Banana 339 

Bisque 339 

Boston Brown Bread 339 

Cake 127 

Caramel 339 

Chocolate 340 

Coffee 340 

Custard 341 

Fruit 341 

Fruit Frappes 341 

Kentucky 341 

Lemon 342 

Orange su 

Pineapple 342 

Pistachio 342 

Strawberry 342 

Tea • • • • 343 

Tutti Frutti 343 

Vanilla 343 

White 3t3 

Without a freezer 338 

ImpefHal Nectar 248 

Indian. 

Bread 30 

Muffins 61 

Pancakes 84 

Pone 62 

Pound Cake 109 

Pudding, boiled 217 

baked 217 

steamed 217 

Jams 306 

Apple 307 

Blackberry and Apple 307 



744 



ALPHABETICAL INDEX. 



Jams. 

Currant 307 

Green Tomato 308 

Pineapple 307 

Raspberry 307 

Sandwiches 205 

Strawberry 308 

Jellies 311 

Apple 311 

Blackberry 313 

Calf's Feet 313 

Cherry 313 

Coffee 313 

Crab Apple 312 

Cranberry 313 

Currant 314 

Drops 160 

Economical . 314 

Elderberry and Grape 315 

Four Fruit 315 

Fox Grape 315 

Gooseberry 315 

Grape 315 

Lemon 316 

Orange 316 

Peach 316 

Pineapple 317 

Plum and Marmalade 317 

Quince 317 

Raspberry and Currant 318 

Rhubarb 318 

" and Apple 318 

Sauce 229 

Spiced Grape 316 

Strawberry 318 

Tomato 319 

Johnny Cake 53 

Jumbles 141 

Cocoanut 141 

Kidney. 

Stewed 392 

Kneading 16 

Lamb. 

Boiled 370 

Breast, roasted 372 

Fried 371 

Roasted 371 

Stewed with peas 372 

Tongues, boiled 372 

Lard. 

Directions for boiling 67 

Layer Cakes 119 



Lemon. 

Beer 242 

Biscuit 38 

" Lemon Peel 37 

Cake no 

Ice' 345 

" Cream 342 

Jelly 316 

Pies 191 

Punch 245 

Puddings- 218 

Sauce 229 

Snap 141 

Syrup • 247 

Lemonade 244 

Egg 244 

Lettuce. 

Salad 453 

Liver 

And Bacon 392 

Boiled 392 

Fried 392 

Lobster 285 

Boiled 285 

Chowder 285 

Creamed 285 

Deviled 286 

Salad 286, 453 

Scalloped 286 

Soup 286 

Macaroni 

And Cheese 489 

And Oysters 490 

And Tomatoes 490 

Boiled 489 

Soup 471 

Macaroons. 

Almond 161 

Chocolate 162 

Cocoanut 162 

Hicory nut 162 

Mackerel. 

Baked, salt 278 

Boiled " 278 

In season 270 

Select, how 270 

When fresh 266 

Mangoes 424 

Peach 424 

Marmalade. 

Apple 308 



ALPHABETICAL INDEX. 



745 



Page 

Marmalade. 

Cherry 308 

Crab Apple 308 

Gooseberry 300 

Grape 300 

Orange 309 

" Scotch 309 

Peach 309 

Pineapple 310 

Plum 308, 310 

Quince 310 

Marshmallows 162 

Maryland Biscuit 35 

Melon Pickles 432 

Meat 347 

Beef 349 

Game 360 

Garnishes 400 

How to carve 409 

" " cure 412 

Lamb and Mutton 370 

Mince 192 

Miscellaneous Recipes 401 

Sauces for 396 

Veal 390 

Mint Sauce 399 

Vinegar 442 

Mixing. 

Biscuit 31 

Bread 7 

Cake 97 

Muffins. 

English 61 

Entire Wheat 61 

Excellent 61 

Graham 60 

Hominy 60 

Indian 61 

Rice 62 

Rye 62 

Mush 86 

Baked Corn 87 

Cornmeal 8J 

Fried - - 89 

Frumenty 90 

Graham 88 

Oatmeal •' 88 

Rice 89 

" Southern recipes 89 

Whole Wheat, boiled 90 



Mushrooms. 

Baked 490 

Broiled 490 

Canned 490 

Catsup 437 

Fried 490 

Pickled 424 

Sauce 399 

Mustard. 

Dressing 450 

Prepared 439 

Sauce 399 

Tomato 439 

Mutton. 

A la Venison 373 

Boiled, with Caper Sauce 373 

Broth 373 

Chops, boiled 370 

" fried 371 

Fricassee 37 1 

Leg, how to carve 410 

Pie 406 

Roasted 371 

Shoulder 411 

Nasturtiums. 

Pickled 425 

Nuts. 

Creamed 163 

Potato 497 

Nutmeg Cookies 140 

Oatmeal. 

Cake 63 

Cakes 84 

Cookies 140 

Gems 59 

Mush 88 

Okra. 

Soup 472 

With Tomatoes 491 

Omelets. 

A la Washington 265 

Asparagus 263 

Aux Fines Herbes 264 

Baked /■ 263 

Cheese 263 

Ham 264 

Meat or Fish 262 

Oyster 264 

Plain 262 

Potato 264 

Souffle 264 



746 



ALPHABETICAL INDEX. 



Omelets. 

Spanish 265 

Sweet 263 

Tomato 265 

Vegetable 263 

Onions. 

Baked 492 

Boiled 492 

Fried * 492 

Orange. 

Cake 130 

Filling ' 130 

Fritters 75 

Ice Cream 342 

In Jelly 333 

Jelly 130, 316 

Marmalade 309 

Scotch way 309 

Pie 194 

Preserves 322 

Pudding 219 

Roily-Poly 219 

Sauce 230 

Oranged Strawberries 335 

Oxtail Soup 473 

Oyster Plant 499 

Fried 500 

Scalloped 500 

Oysters. 

A la Creme • • 288 

Broiled 287 

on the half shell 288 

Canned 288 

Corn 79 

Fritters 76 

Fricasseed 288 

Fried 289 

In season 270 

Omelet 264 

Panned 290 

Pie 290 

Pickled 290 

Raw 290 

Roast 291 

Scalloped 291 

Soup 473 

Stew 291 

Toast 92 

Pancakes. 

Berlin 71 

Plain 84 



Pancakes. 

Potato , 85 

Squash 85 

Parker House Rolls 40 

Parsnips. 

Creamed 492 

Fried 493 

Fritters 76 

Mashed 493 

Smothered 493 

Stewed 493 

Paste. 

Good 183 

Potato 183 

Puff... 182 

Short 201 

Suet 183 

Pastry 180 

Ornamental 201 

Peaches 

And Cream 353 

Canned 301 

" steamed 302 

Custard 333 

Dried, sauce 329 

" pie 195 

Frozen 333 

Jelly 316 

Marmalade 309 

Meringue 333 

Pickles 433 

Pie 194 

Preserves 322 

Pyramid 334 

Peanut Candy 157 

Pears 

And Cream 334 

Baked 334 

Canned 303 

Compote 334 

Pickles 433 

Preserves 323 

Stewed 329 

Peas. 

Canned 507 

Dried 494 

Fritters 493 

Green 493 

Soup, dried 474 

" green 474 

Stewed ' 493 






ALPHABETICAL INDEX. 



747 



Page 

Piccalilli 425 

Pickles 418 

Artichokes 419 

Atzjar 425 

Beans 420 

Beets 420 

Cabbage 420 

Cauliflower 420 

Celery 421 

Chopped 426 

Chowchow "! 422 

Cucumber 423 

" greened 423 

" sliced 423 

Mangos 424 

Peach 424 

Mixed 427 

Mushroom 424 

Nasturtium 425 

Onion 425 

Pepper 425 

Piccalilli 425 

Spanish 427 

To keep from getting soft 428 

Tomato 427 

Virginia 428 

Walnut 428 

Pickles, Sweet. 

Apple 429 

Beet 430 

Blackberry 430 

Cherry 430 

Cucumber 430 

Currant 431 

Elderberry 432 

French 433 

Gooseberry 432 

Grape 432 

Melon 432 

Peach 433 

Pear : 433 

Plum 433 

" Euchred 434 

Raisin 434 

Strawberry 434 

Tomato, green. 434 

" ripe 435 

" spiced 435 

Watermelon 435 

Pie. 

Apple, 1 and 2 184 

Cobbler 184 



Pfcge 

Pie. 

Apple Custard 185 

dried, 1, 2 and 3 185 

Meringue, l , 2 and 3 185 

Beefsteak 405 

Berry 1S6 

Blueberry, 1, 2 and 3 186 

Chicken 384 

" with Oysters 385 

Cherry 186 

Chocolate, 1 and 2 186 

Cinnamon Flakes 187 

Cocoanut 187 

Cornstarch 188 

Cracker 188 

Cranberry, 1 and 2 188 % 

Cream, 1 and 2 189 

" Whipped 189 

Crumb 183 

Currant, 1 and 2 189 

Currant, green 190 

Custard, 1 and 2 190 

Granger 191 

Grape, wild 190 

Huckleberry 191 

Lancashire 405 

Lemon, 1, 2, 3 and 4 191 

" Cream 192 

Marlboro 192 

Meat 405 

Mince Meat, 1, 2, 3 and 4 192 

Mock Mince, 1 and 2 194 

Mutton 406 

Orange 194 

Peach, l, 2, 3 and 4 195 

Pigeon 387 

Pineapple 195 

Plum Cobbler 195 

Potato 196 

Prune 196 

Pumpkin, 1,2 and 3 K)7 

Raisin 197 

Raspberry, 1 and 2 197 

Rhubarb, Lemon 198 

1,2, 3 and 4 198 

Schmier-Kiise 199 

Squash, 1 and 2 ■ ••• 199 

Strawberry 199 

Sweet Potato 196 

Tomato 200 

Transparent 199 

Veal Pot 393 

" and Ham 406 



748 



ALPHABETICAL INDEX. 



Page 

Pie. 

Vinegar 200 

Pilau. 

Chicken 406 

Pia. 

Roasted 377 

Pigeons. 

Broiled 387 

Pie 387 

Potted 367 

Roasted 387 

Stuffed or Baked 367 

Pork 

And Beans 374 

Bacon 373 

Chops and Steaks 374 

Fricatelli 375 

Ham 375 

Roasted 377 

Salt, fried 375 

Sausages 378 

Sparerib roast 378 

Tenderloins 378 

Pop-overs 63 

Buckeye 63 

Potatoes. 

Baked 494 

Balls 494 

Boiled 494 

Border 494 

Breakfast 494 

Browned 495 

Creamed 495 

Croquettes 495 

French 495 

Fried 496 

Hash • 496 

Lyonnaise 496 

Mashed 496 

New 496 

Nuts 497 

Rissoles 497 

Saratoga 497 

Scalloped 497 

Snow 498 

Souffle' 498 

Sweet 498 

" broiled 498 

" mashed 498 

" scalloped 499 

Poultry. 

Chickens > 380 



Page 

Poultry. 

Ducks 385 

Guinea Fowl 387 

Pigeons 387 

To buy 378 

" prepare 379 

Turkey 388 

Preserves. 

Apple 319 

Cherry 320 

Citron 320 

" and Quince 321 

Candied 320 

" Orange and Lemon 320 

Elderberry 321 

Fig 321 

Grape 321 

" in bunches 322 

Orange 322 

Peach 322 

Pear 323 

Pineapple 323 

Plum 323 

" Sweetmeats 324 

Quince 324 

andApple 324 

Rhubarb 324 

Strawberry 325 

Tomato 325 

Unique 325 

Watermelon 326 

Proteids 513 

Boiling 516 

Broiling 515 

Cereals 519 

Cheese 518 

Eggs 514 

Fish 518 

Frying 517 

Gelatine 518 

Leguminous 519 

Meat 514 

Roasting 516 

Soup-making 517 

Stewing 518 

Prunes. 

Pudding... 222 

' Stewed 329 

Puddings 216 

Apple 208 

Dumpling 208 

209 



ALPHABETICAL INDEX. 



749 



Page 
PUDDIKOS. 

Apple Rolly-Poly 209 

Banana 209 

Batter 209 

" how to mix 207 

Bird's Nest 210 

Blackberry 210 

Bread 210 

Brown Betty 210 

Buttercup 211 

Caramel 211 

Carrot, English 211 

Cheese 211 

Cherry 211 

Chocolate 212 

Cocoanut 212 

" Tapioca 213 

Cornstarch 213 

Cottage ; 213 

Cranberry Roll 214 

Cream 214 

with Cherries 214 

Currant 215 

Delmonico 215 

Fig 215 

Frozen 216 

Fruit 216 

Graham, steamed 216 

Grape 216 

Huckleberry 217 

Indian, baked 217 

" boiled 217 

" steamed 217 

Lemon 218 

March 218 

Minute 219 

Orange 219 

Rolly-Poly 219 

Pineapple 219 

Plum 220 

" Eggless 220 

" English 221 

" Prairie 221 

Poor Man's 221 

Prune 222 

Frunelle 222 

Queen of 223 

Quick Puff 222 

Quince 223 

Rhubarb 223 

Rice 224 

" Snowballs 224 

Sago and Apple 224 



Page 

Puddings. 

Sauces 227 

Strawberry Roll 224 

Suet 225 

Sutherland 225 

Sweet Potato 222 

Tapioca, 1 and 2 226 

" Apple 226 

" Fruit 226 

Quail. 

Broiled 368 

On Toast 368 

Roasted 368 

Quince. 

Baked 334 

Jelly ! 317 

Marmalade 310 

Preserves 321 

Pudding 223 

Rabbits 

And Hares 369 

Raspberries. 

Canned 304 

Float 332 

Ice 315 

Jam 307 

Pie 197 

Shrub 246 

Rhubarb. 

Baked 329 

Butter 306 

Canned 304 

Pie 198 

Preserved 324 

Stewed 329 

Rice. 

Boiled • 499 

Cream 171 

Griddle Cakes 85 

Pudding 223 

Snowball 224 

Southern 499 

Waffles 67 

Roast. 

A Little Pig 377 

Beef with Pudding 355 

" Rib 356 

" Rump 356 

" Sirloin " 356 

Birds 363 

Duck 384 



750 



ALPHABETICAL INDEX. 



Roast. 

Goose 365 

Lamb 372 

or Mutton 371 

" Breast of 372 

Pigeon 387 

Pork 377 

Quail 368 

Sparerib 378 

Sweetbreads 396 

Turkey 339 

" or Brant 3G9 

Veal.Fillet of 393 

" Loin " 394 

Venison, Haunch of 369 

Rolls. 

Breakfast *• 41 

long 41 

Cinnamon 43 

Coffee 42 

Crescent or Vienna 43 

Dinner 42 

Excellent 43 

French 40 

Graham 43 

Italian 41 

Parker House 40 

Pocketbooks — ' 44 

Tea 42 

Winter 44 

Rusk. 

Cream 46 

Genuine 45 

Lebanon 46 

Rye 

And Indian 30 

Bread 28 

30 

Sago 470 

Salsify 499 

Fried 600 

Scalloped 500 

Salads 447 

Artichoke 450 

Asparagus 450 

Cauliflower 451 

Celery 451 

Chicken 451 

" or Turkey 451 

Cold Slaw 456 

" " old-fashioned 456 

" " Southern 457 



Page 

Salads. 

Cream 457 

Cucumber 452 

Dressing 448 

Endive 452 

Fish 452 

Ham 452 

Herring 453 

Lettuce 453 

Lobster 453 

Onion 454 

Potato 454 

Sally Lunn 65 

Salmon 454 

Shrimp 455 

Summer 455 

Tomato 455 

" and Cucumber 456 

Veal 456 

Vegetable 456 

Sandwiches 446 

Cheese 445 

Saratoga Potatoes 497 

Sauces, Fish, 

Brown 279 

Butter 279 

Egg 279 

Horseradish 280 

Lobster 280 

Mustard 280 

Oyster 281 

Shrimp 281 

Tartare 281 

Tomato 281 

Worcestershire 282 

Sauces, Fruit 326 

Apple 327 

Cranberry 328 

Dried Apple 328 

Peach 329 

Gooseberry 329 

Grape 329 

Green Currant 328 

Pears, stewed 329 

Prunes " 329 

Rhubarb, baked 329 

stewed '..... 329 

Sauces, Meat 396 

Brown 398 

Butter 397 

Caper 397 



ALPHABETICAL INDEX. 



751 



Page 

Sauces, Meat. 

Carrot 398 

Celery 399 

Chestnut 399 

Cream 397 

Curry 397 

Egg 397 

Maitre D' Hotel 399 

Mint 399 

Mushroom 397 

" 399 

Mustard '•••■ 399 

Olive 399 

Pickle or Caper 400 

Sweet Herb 400 

Tomato 400 

Sauces, Pudding 227 

Butterless 227 

Caramel 227 

Chocolate 227 

Cream 227 

" Cold 228 

Fruit 228 

Plain 228 

Whipped 228 

Custard 228 

Fruit Juice 228 

Golden 229 

Hard 229 

Jelly 229 

Lemon 229 

Maple Sugar 229 

Milk 230 

Minnehaha 230 

Orange 230 

Pineapple 230 

Plain , 230 

Strawberry 230 

Vanilla 231 

Vinegar 231 

Sauerkraut 500 

Sausages 378 

Breakfast 408 

Scallops. 

Cauliflower 484 

Clam 284 

Egg 254 

Lobster 286 

Oyster 291 

Potato 497 

" Sweet 499 

Salsify 500 



PaL'<* 

Scrapple 4 i ? 

Shell Fish 282 

Clams 283 

Crabs 284 

Lobster 285 

Oyster 287 

Terrapin 292 

Turtle 292 

Sherbets. 

Pineapple 340 

Shoulders 

Of Mutton 414 

To carve 411 

Shrimps 

And Prawns 287 

Sauce 281 

Snipe 309 

Snow Custard 175 

Soups. 

Asparagus 4C5 

Bean 465 

" Black 4G6 

Beef 400 

" and Okra 466 

Bisque, Mock 467 

Bouillon 464 

Cabbage 407 

Calf's Head 4G7 

Carrot 468 

Celery 468 

Cock-A-Leekie 469 

Colors for 400 

Corn 469 

Croutons 463 

Economical 469 

Gumbo Fillet 470 

" Okra 470 

Julienne -171 

Macaroni 471 

Mock Turtle 471 

Mulligatawny 171 

Okra 47-.' 

Onion 473 

Ox-tail -17.; 

Oyster 473 .^ 

Pea, dried 474 

" green 474 

Portable »7i 

Potato 475 

Pot-au-Feu 475 



752 



ALPHABETICAL INDEX. 



Page 

Soups. 

Seasoning for 460 

Spices for 460 

Springtime 476 

Stock for 461 

Turtle 293 

Veal 476 

Vegetable 476 

Vermicelli 477 

White 477 

Spanish Cream 172 

Squash. 

Fritters 78 

Summer 600 

Winter 500 

Stew. 

Beef 358 

Breakfast 408 

Chicken with Dumplings 386 

Clam 284 

Oyster 291 

Veal 394 

Stewed 

Asparagus 482 

Beef 357 

Celery 484 

Corn 486 

" dried 486 

Duck 386 

Fish 278 

Kidneys 392 

Lamb with Peas 372 

Pears 329 

Prunes 329 

Rhubarb 329 

Tomatoes 503 

Turnips 505 

Stuffed 

Beef Heart 353 

" Steak 401 

Cabbage 483 

Chicken, roasted 385 

Pigeons 367 

Turkey 389 

Strawberries. 

Canned 305 

Float 332 

Ice 345 

" Cream 342 

Jam 308 

Jelly 318 

Oranged 335 



Page 

Strawberries. 

Preserve 325 

Roll 224 

Sauce 230 

With Whipped Cream 335 

Stock 

For Soups 461 

Succotash 501 

Winter 501 

Suet 

Paste 183 

Pudding 225 

Sugar 

Barley 163 

Biscuit 39 

Sweetbreads. 

Broiled 395 

Fricasseed 395 

Fried 395 

Roasted 396 

With Macaroni 396 

" Mushrooms 396 

Sweet Potatoes. 

Broiled 498 

Mashed 498 

Scalloped 499 

Table Weights and Measures 511 
Tapioca. 

Apple 179 

Blackberry 179 

Whip 179 

lTudding 225 

Apple • . 226 

" Cocoanut 213 

Fruit 226 

Tartar Sauce 28i 

Tarts 200 

Apple 200 

Fruit 206 

Sand ' Hi 

Tea 240 

Acup of 240 

Iced 241 

Russian 241 

Tenderloin, broiled 359 

Terrapin 292 

Time Table, Cook's 509 

Toast 90 

Breakfast 91 

Buttered 91 

Cracker 92 



ALPHABETICAL INDEX. 



753 



Page 

TOAST 

Cream 91 

Dry 92 

French 92 

Lemon 93 

Meat 408 

Mennonite 93 

Oyster 92 

Queen's 93 

Ramakin 446 

Scrambled 93 

Tomato 

And Rice 502 

* Baked 501 

Canned 508 

Catsup 438 

Chow Chow 422 

Green, fried 502 

Jelly. 319 

Macaroni and 490 

Mixed 426 

Mustard 439 

Okra and 491 

Pickles, Green 434 

Mixed 426 

" Ripe 435 

* " Spiced 435 

" Virginia 427 

Pie 200 

Preserves 325 

Raw 502 

1 Sauce 281, 400 

" with Eggs 259 

Scalloped 502 

Souffle' 503 

' Stewed 503 

" Canned 503 

Stuffed 504 

' Toast 504 

ToAD-IN-THE-HOLE. 404 

Tongue. 

Beef, spiced 359 

^ Boiled 359 

Sounds and 278 

Tripe, fried 359 

Truffles 505 

Turkey. 

Boiled 388 

Boned 388 

Hash 404 

Roast, English 390 

Roasted 369, 389 



Turkey. 

Scalloped 409 

Turtle. 

Boiled 292 

Mock Soup 471 

Soup 203 

Turnip 504 

Browned 501 

Diced 504 

Stewed 505 

Tutti Frutti. 

Ice Cream 343 

Icing 137 

Ice 345 

Vanilla. 

Sauce _'3i 

Sugar Candy 151 

Taffy, Glorious 164 

Vanities 78 

Veal 390 

Calf's Head 391 

Cutlets, fried 390 

Fillet of, roasted 393 

Kidney 392 

" Stewed 392 

Liver and Bacon 392 

" Boiled 392 

Fried 392 

Loaf 393 

Loin of 394 

Pot-Pie 383 

Rolls 894 

Stew 394 

Sweetbreads 395 

With Oysters 393 

Vegetables 473 

Asparagus 479 

Beans 480 

Beets 481 

Cabbage 482 

Carrots 183 

Cauliflower 483 

Celery 484 

Corn 484 

Cucumbers 488 

Egg-plant 487 

Greens «8 

Hash 

Macaroni 489 

Mushrooms W0 

Okra 491 



754 



ALPHABETICAL INDEX 



Paqp 

Vegetables. 

Onions 492 

Parsnips 492 

Peas 493 

Potatoes 494 

Rice 499 

Salsify 499 

Sauerkraut 500 

Squash 500 

Succotash 501 

Sweet Potatoes — 498 

Tomatoes 501 

Truffles 505 

Turnips 504 

Venison 369 

Haunch of, roasted 369 

Saddle of " 370 

Steak, broiled 370 

Vermicelli Soup 477 

Vinegar. 

Chilly 441 

Clover 441 

Cress 441 

Home-made 441 

Honey 441 

Horseradish 441 

Making 418 

Mint 442 

Pepper 442 

Pie 200 

Sauce 231 

Sap or Sugar 442 

Spiced .- 442 

Tarragon 443 

Vienna 

Biscuit 35 

Chocolate 239 

Coffee 237 

Rolls 43 

Wafers. 

Nut 147 

Walnut 142 

Waffles 65 

Corn Meal 66 

Plain 66 

Quick 66 



Waffles. 

Raised 66 

Rice 67 

Walnuts. 

Pickled 428 

Watermelon. 

Cake ii7 

Water 232 

Biscuit 35 

Ices 344 

Tamarind 247 

Weights and Measures 51 1 

Welsh Rarebit 446 

Wheat. 

Entire 27 

Whipped Cream 172 

Cream Cake lis 

Whips. 

Prune 179 

Tapioca 179 

Wonder Cake 119 

Woodcock 370 

Scotch 261 

Year's Menu : A 524 

January 525 

February 528 

March 530 

April 533 

May 535 

June 538 

July 540 

August 542 

September 545 

October 547 

November 549 

December 552 

Special Occasions 554 

Yeast 

And Bread 19 

Cakes 16 

Corn 14 

Dry 16 

Hop 18 

Potato 15 



SUPPLEMENTAL INDEX. 



Page 

Bee Keeping 634 

Birds 639 

Butter Making 661 

Care of the House 556 

Sleeping Rooms 560 

Sweeping and Dusting 558 

Cellar 567 

Cheese Making 662 

Cleaning House 561 

Conveniences, Various 626 

Ash Barrel 621 

Bain Marie 627 

Blue, to prevent from fading. . 602 

Bread Toaster 627 

Cream Whip 628 

Cupboards 627 

Dishcloth Handlers 629 

Dish Warmer 627 

Dutch Oven 627 

Egg Beater 628 

Egg Steam Poacher 628 

Filter 628 

Fish Kettle 628 

Forms of Glass or Tin 628 

Fruit Press and Strainer 629 

Griddle of Artificial Stone 629 

Hassocks 629 

Heater, Gas 629 

Lamp, Perfume 630 

Mat, to make 630 

Pan, Roasting 632 

Pen, Child's 630 

Perfection Cake Tin 631 

Pickle Fork 631 

Potato Slicer 631 

Rack for Blower 631 

" " Spice 632 

" Toast 632 



Page 

Conveniences, Various. 

Sponge Basket 633 

Strainer 632 

Substitute for Casters 633 

Tongs, Vegetable 633 

Tree Pruner 633 

Trousers Stretchers 633 

Dairying 65<i 

Butter Making 661 

Cheese Making 662 

Dining Room 560 

Dinner Pointers 370 

Domestics 571 

Hints to 57 1 

Dyeing 651 

Black on Cotton 651 

" " Straw 656 

" Wool 653 

Blue 651,654,656 

" Royal 652 

Brown 652, 654 

Dark Snuff 654 

Feathers and Fur 658 

Green 652,653, 654 

Lilac 653 

Mulberry 653 

Orange 654 

Pink 652,654 

Purple 654 

Red 655, 657 

Scarlet 655 

Silver Gray 657 

Slate 653, 657 

Solferino and Magenta 655 

Violet 663, 666 

Wine Color .- 656 

Fuel 576 

Clinkers 580 

Coal Fire-, to kindle 58 1 

75" 



756 



ALPHABETICAL INDEX. 



Fuel. 

Kindler, A Good Fire 581 

Ice House, The 581 

Kitchen, The 582 

Alum Water 587 

Ammonia 586 

Ants 587 

Barrels 587 

Borax 587 

Boxes 587 

Bread and Cake 587 

Brooms 587 

Burns 587 

Cabbage 587 

Cement 587 

Charcoal 587 

Clinkers 587 

Coffee and Tea 587 

Corks 588 

Flour Sacks 588 

Glass Jars and Tumblers 588 

Jar Covers 588 

Kettles 588 

Knives 588 

Lemons and Oranges 588 

Onions 588 

Polish 588 

Tinware 588 

Walnuts 588 

Water 588 

Laundry, The 589 

Alpaca, to clean 600 

Apron Pocket for Clothes Pins. 607 

Articles of Zephyr, to clean .... 601 

Black Lace, to clean 601 

Black Silk, to do up 601 

Black Print, to wash 596 

Blankets, to wash 595 

Brown Linen, to wash 600 

* Colored Muslins, to wash 600 

Color, to remove 602 

Erasi ve Fluid 607 

Flannels, to wash 595 

Fruit Stains, to remove 603 

Goods that Fade, to wash 597 

Grease, to remove 603 

" "cleanse 610 

" Saving for Soap 609 

Ink Stains, to remove 602 

Iron Rust, to remove 602 

lions, care of 607 

Kerosene, to wash with 595 



F«(re 

Laundry, The. 

Lace Curtains, to wash 599 

" Ruchings " " 599 

Laces, to wash 607 

" "whiten 607 

Lawn and Muslin Dresses, to 

wash 596 

Leach, to set 610 

Linen Collars and Cuff s 605 

Light Cambrics and Prints — 693 

Machine Oil, to remove 603 

Mildew, to remove . 603 

Muslin, to bleach 607 

Nitrate of Silver, to remove — 603 

Paint, to remove 603 

Red Table Linen, to wash 600 

Ribbons, to clean 601 

Scorch, to takeout 601 

Shirt Bosoms, Enamel for 605 

Shirts, Silver Polish for 605 

" to starch and iron 605,606 

Silks, to clean and press 601 

" remove grease from.. 602 

Silk Dress, to wash 596 

" andWoolen Goods.to clean 600 
" " Thread Gloves, to 

wash 597 

Silk Handkerchiefs, to wash .. 598 

Soap, Boiled 608 

Family 609 

Gall 611 

" Grease, to save 609 

Hard .' 611 

" Mixture 611 

Made Over 611 

Potash 612 

" Soft 612 

" Sun 612 

Starch, Coffee 604 

Flour 601 

Fine, to make 601 

Thread Gloves, to wash 597 

Lace, to wash 599 

Turpentine, use of in washing. 612 

Velvet, to clean 601 

Washing Soda, substitute for . . 612 

Washing Fluid 607 

Wash Boilers, to clean 602 

W oolen Dress Goods, to clean . 600 

"^~ Goods, to wash 597 

Fabrics, to wash 597 

Manners 699 

Balls 703 



ALPHABETICAL INDEX. 



757 



Page 

Manners. 

Calls 699 

Cards 700 

Dinner 704 

Introductions 701 

Invitations, etc 702 

Letter Writing 706 

Miscellaneous 708 

Receptions 705 

Teas 705 

Weddings 705 

Marketing 612 

Apples 623 

Berries 624 

Beef 613 

Cabbages 624 

Cauliflowers 624 

Celery 624 

Chickens 619 

Cheese 622 

Coffee 623 

Corn 624 

Ducks 620 

Wild . 620 

Egg Plant 624 

Eggs 622 

Fish 617 

Flour 622 

Game 619 

Geese 620 

Groceries 621 

Grapes 624 

Herbs 624 

Lamb 614 

Lard 622 

Macaroni 622 

Mutton 615 

Mushrooms 624 

Onions ■ -. — 625 

Parsnips 625 

Peas 625 

Pears 624 

Pheasants and Quails 620 

Poultry 619 

Pork 615 

Potatoes 625 

Pumpkins 625 

Raisins 622 

Rice 622 

Sago 622 

Salt 622 

Soap, Hard 622 

Spices 022 



Marketing. 

Squashes 625 

Starch 623 

Sugar 623 

Tea and Coffee 623 

Tongue 616 

Tomatoes t 625 

Turnips 625 

Turkeys 620 

Veal 616 

Vinegar 623 

Miscellaneous 724 

Bed bugs" 724 

Biscuit Wafer 724 

Blueing 724 

Bruises 724 

Burns 724 

Burning Feet 724 

Charcoal 725 

Chickadees in Winter 725 

Complexion, The 725 

Cosmetic 725 

Curline 725 

Egg and Lime Water 725 

Egg Preserver 725 

Eyes, Inflamed 725 

Feathers, to bleach 657 

" clean 657 

" dye 658 

Fruits 725 

Fur, to clean 658 

Furniture Filling 726 

Graham Gruel 726 

Hair Lotion 726 

" Renewer 726 

Hemorrhages 726 

Ice Cream 728 

Insects 728 

Kerosene — 728 

Limewater 728 

658 

Mildew '• 728 

Moths 729 

Oak and Ivy Poisoning 729 

Oilcloths 729 

Onions 79 

Panada, Cracker 729 

Paste, A Good 7.-.0 

Pate Meat 730 

Pearls 730 

Powder, Excellent Tooth 730 

Rice • • . 730 

Salt 730 



fbli 



ALPHABETICAL INDEX. 



Page 

Miscellaneous. 

Shoes, Waterproof 731 

Silk, to keep 731 

Snake Bites 732 

Soap, A Good Hard 731 

" Yankee Shaving 731 

" Toilet •• 731 

Stains -•••■• 732 

Stove Cracks-.-.. ••■••• 732 

Toast. Quail on 730 

Turpentine - • • 732 

Vinegar Whey 732 

Wound. Rusty Nail 732 

Nursery 689 

Pets, Household G39 

Birds 639 

Canaries and Seed Eaters 639 

Cats 642 

Dogs 642 

Parrots 641 

Soft-billed Birds 641 

Poultry Raising 643 

Poisons and Antidotes 695 

Diagnosis of Poisoning 695 

Treatment " " 695 

Poisons and Treatment 697 

Acetate of Lead 697 

Acids 697 

Acid, Carbolic 697 

" Prussic 697 

Aconite 697 

Alcohol 697 

Alkalies 697 

Arsenic 697 

Belladonna 697 

CopperSalt 698 

Iodine 698 

Mercury 698 

Nitrate of Silver 698 

Opium 698 

Phosphorus 698 

Poisonous Gases 698 

Powdered Glass 698 

Strychnine 698 

Renovating 647 

Sanitation 665 

Sickness 666 

Antiseptics 679 

CareofSick 672 

Disinfectants 679 

Sick, Foods for the 680 

Acid, Strawberry 680 



Pag* 

Sick, Foods for the. 

Alum Whey 6S9 

Arrowroot, Custard 683 

Articles for Sick Room 089 

Baked Milk 686 

Barley Water 688 

Beef Tea 687 

" " Raw 688 

Beefsteak - 680 

Beef Raw 681 

Blackberry Cordial 682 

Blancmange, Oatmeal 6Sl 

Broth, Beef OSt 

Broth, Chicken 081 

" Mutton 681 

Broiled Chicken, etc 682 

Buttermilk, Mulled 681 

" Stew ... 687 

Cakes, Oatmeal • • • • 682 

Coffee, Crust 682 

Crackers, Oatmeal 682 

Custard, Arrowroot 683 

" Sago 683 

Drink, Fever 683 

" Sassafras 683 

Egg, Whipped 683 

" Gruel 684 

Farina, Sea Moss 683 

Flour Balls 683 

Food for Convalescents 684 

Gems, Graham 684 

Gruel, Cornmeal • 684 

" Egg "■ 684 

" Oatmeal 684 

Jellice 6S5 

Jelly, Rice 685 

" Tapioca 685 

Kumyss, to make 685 

Meat for Invalids • 685 

Milk Porridge 686 

Orangeade 686 

Panada 686 

Pie Crust, Oatmeal 686 

Pudding, Cracked Wheat 680 

" Sago Jelly oso 

Relish, Raspberry 687 

Rice, Parched 687 

Shrub, Currant 687 

Soup, Cream 687 

" Vegetable 087 

" Beef Tea 687 

Stew, Buttermilk 687 

Oysters 687 



ALPHABETICAL INDEX. 



759 



Page 

Sick, Foods for the 

Tea.Beef 687 

" Raw Beef 688 

" Cinnamon 688 

Toast. Good 688 

Useful Knowledge 689 

Vi negar, Raspberry 688 

Water, Barley 688 

M Rice 688 

Wafers, Oatmeal 689 

Store Room, The 625 

Toilet, The 710 

Beauty and Health 710 

Carriage 712 



Toilet, The. 

Cliest Development • 713 

Complexion 715 

Feet 722 

Figure 711 

Grace 712 

Hand, The 718 

Hair ,- 721 

Mouth. The 717 

Nose, The 717 

Obesity 713 

Skin, The 713 

Thinness 7.13 

Wrinkles 716 



-^k^t^yv 



» rl*tf2f&*!™^?\w ww 



LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 




^BT 



§«a^ 



5*^ .*, 



