Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on Hbrary shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http : //books . google . com/| 




I "V • I • - 5 .* 



< ^- » i > •  



f i 



1 

i 



f 



j^f* Si #0,„. 



<pa V 



■^ , — -> 



7 r -< V 



ri5M, rLE5ii AND rowL 



V'.- 



A COOK BOOK 



-^OY — 



Valuable Recipes, all of which have been thoroughly 

and successfully tested 



COMPILED BY 



LADIES OF STATE STREET PARISH 



PORTLAND 

TRANSCRIPT PRINTING HOUSE, 44 EXCHANGE STREET 

1894 






V .- 









» 



e^^^^^s^ 



" The Lord sends meat ; the Devil cooks," 

Of old a proverb was, 
What slander on the gentle sex ! 
What charge without a cause ! 

The Woman Question is, no doubt, 
"Where doth my mission lie ? 

Shall all our aspirations tend 
To pudding, cake and pie ?" 

Could man be made to comprehend 

The aggravation sore. 
Of frosting, roasting, broiling^all 

The varied kitchen lore — 

* Twould all come right then, bye and bye. 

Disproved all slanders rife ; 
We'd get with jubilation. 

Our Desserts in this life. 




COPYBIOHT 1894 
BT TBAVSCBIPT PRINTING HOUSS 



BREAD. 



<( 



The Staff of Life.' 



Bannock. One pint Indian meal scalded with one 
quart milk, six or eight eggs, a little sugar and salt. 
Stir in eggs when cool, and bake in hot oven. 

Batter. Two eggs, the whites beaten separately, a 
small cup of flour, the same of milk; mix yolks of 
eggs, flour and milk into a smooth batter; stir in a tea- 
spoon of butter melted, and a little salt, and one 
teaspoon of baking powder; the last thing put in 
the whites of the eggs beaten to a froth; beat gently 
after the whites are in. Bake well in a buttered ±in in 
a very hot oven. 

Blueberry Cake. i. One quart flour, half a cup 
butter, one and a half cups white sugar, one cup sweet 
milk, two teaspoons cream tartar, one teaspoon soda, 
two eggs, blueberries. 

2. One cup milk, three cups flour, one egg, salt, two 
tablespoons sugar, one of butter, two teaspoojis cream 
tartar, one of soda, one cup blueberries. 

Breakfast Cake. Sift together two cups flour, two 
tablespoons Indian meal, two tablespoons sugar and 
four even teaspoons baking powder; add one cup sweet 
milk and two well beaten eggs, a pinch of salt. Bake 
in large or small tins. 



4 BREAD. 

Breakfast Puffs. One pint milk, two eggs, a little 
salt, teaspoon soda, two of cream tartar, butter size 
of a walnut, melted; put all into the milk, then stir 
thoroughly in a pint and a half of flour. Bake in cups. 

Brown Bread, i, Togus. Three cups sweet milk, one 
cup sour milk, three cups Indian meal, one cup flour, 
one cup molasses, one teaspoon salt, one of soda dis- 
solved in a little warm water. 

2. Steamed. Three cups Indian meal, two cups 
rye meal, one cup flour, four tablespoons molasses, 
two tablespoons yeast, one teaspoon salt. Stir it up 
at night with warm water. In the morning add scant 
teaspoon saleratus. Steam all the forenoon. 

3« One heaping coffee cup rye meal and the 
same of Indian meal; mix together one-half teaspoon 
salt, molasses enough to make a very stiff dough, 
into this beat an ("gg; two scant coffee cups sour 
milk, two teaspoons soda. If sweet milk is handier 
use three teaspoons baking powder. Steam three 
hours and bake one hour. 

4. Three cups bread crumbs, rolled fine, three cups 
corn meal, three cups sour milk, three -fourths cup mo- 
lasses, four teaspoons soda. Boil molasses and add 
soda; steam all day as usual. 

Buckwheat Cakes. Two cups buckwheat, one of 
white flour, one-half cup yeast. In the morning add 
two teaspoons sugar, and one teaspoon soda. 

Buns. I. Three cups milk, one cup yeast, two 
cups sugar, flour enough to make a stiff batter; 
rise over night, then add cup butter, cup sugar, nut- 
meg, teaspoon soda, more flour to make as stiff as 
bread; after a second rising cut and rise before bak- 
ing. Currants if you choose. 



BREAD. 5 

2. Two quarts dough, one cup sugar, one pint milk 
(lukewarm), one cup yeast, one cup currants, put all 
to rise in the afternoon, add flour enough to thicken 
before bed time. In the morning put in pans to rise 
before baking. 

3. Cinnamon. Boil one pint milk and cool till 
lukewarm, one cup sugar, one cup yeast, tablespoon 
butter, one tablespoon lard, flour enough to make a 
stiff dough so that none need to be added in the morn- 
ing. Let rise over night; when light roll out about an 
inch thick and spread well with butter; sprinkle over 
brown sugar and cinnamon; then roll it up and cut off 
about an inch thick; let rise in pans till very light, and 
bake in good oven; when done rub over with butter. 

California Biscuit. One-half cup sugar, two cups 
milk, two eggs, piece of butter size of an eggj one 
quart flour, one teaspoon soda, two teaspoons cream 
tartar. 

Cheese Sandwiches. One hard-boiled egg, one-fourth 
pound common cheese grated, one-half teaspoon salt, 
one-half teaspoon pepper, one-half teaspoon mustard,, 
one-half teaspoon sugar, one tablespoon melted butter, 
one tablespoon vinegar; take the yolk of the egg, put 
it in a small bowl and crumble it down, put into it the 
butter, and mix it smooth with a spoon, then add the 
salt, pepper, sugar, mustard and the cheese, mixing 
each well; then put in the tablespoon of vinegar which 
will make it the proper thickness; spread between thin 
bread and butter or crackers. 

Corn Cake. i. One pint sour milk, one pint Indian 
meal, one pint flour, two tablespoons sugar, salt, one 
egg, a small piece of butter, one teaspoon soda. 

2. One cup meal, one cup flour, one cup sugar. 



O BREAD. 

butter size of an eggy one cup milk, one-half teaspoon 
soda dissolved in milk, two teaspoons cream tartar 
sifted in with flour. 

3. One cup Indian meal, one cup flour, one-half 
teaspoon soda, one teaspoon cream tartar sifted in with 
meal, teaspoon salt, one egg, without beating, one cup 
milk, all beaten very thoroughly together for fifteen 
minutes and bake in round pans twenty minutes. 

Corn Bread or Johnny-Cake. One pint of butter- 
milk or sour milk, one pint corn meal, one egg, one 
teaspoon soda, one teaspoon salt, two teaspoons sugar 
or molasses; dissolve the soda in a little warm water 
and add it the last thing. Bake half an hour in a 
quick oven. 

Bangor Corn Cake. One tablespoon butter, two 
tablespoons sugar, one egg, one cup flour, one-half cup 
corn meal, two-thirds cup milk, one teaspoon cream 
tartar, one-half teaspoon soda. 

White Corn Cake. One cup cold boiled rice beaten, 
then add three eggs; scald one quart milk, stir with 
the milk one and a third cups of white corn meal, a. 
little salt, then beat all together, have a good one-half 
cup of butter in the dish you bake in. Bake in hot 
oven. 

Egg Pop-Overs. Three cups flour, three cups milk, 
three eggs. Beat eggs twenty minutes, add milk and 
flour. Bake in a quick oven. 

Flannel Cakes. To two ounces of butter add a pint 
of hot milk to melt the butter, a pint of cold milk, five 
eggs, flour enough to make a stiff batter, teaspooa 
salt, two tablespoons yeast; set it to rise in a warm 
place about three hours; butter the griddle and pour 
on the batter in small cakes. 



BREAD. 7 

French Toast. Beat two or three eggs and stir into 
a pint of milk with a pinch of salt; take thin slices 
of stale bread and dip into it; as you take out the 
slices set them on the edge a minute to drain off some 
of the milk, then brown on both sides on a buttered 
griddle; lay them in a hot covered dish, and eat with 
syrup or butter and sugar. 

Fried Biscuits. Take spoonfuls of raised dough 
and fry in hot lard like doughnuts; eat while hot with 
maple syrup. 

Graham Bread. Take equal quantities graham meal 
and flour, add shortening and yeast, mix stiff as flour 
bread and treat in the same way. 

Graham Rolls, i. Two cups of wheat meal, one and 
a half cups flour, salt, three-fourths cup sugar, two and 
one-half cups sour milk, one teaspoon soda. 

2. Two cups graham flour, one cup sweet milk, 
one cup sour milk, one-half cup molasses, one-half 
teaspoon salt, one teaspoon saleratus, one egg. Bake 
in a quick oven in gem pan. 

Huckleberry Biscuit. A piece of raised dough the 
size of an ordinary bowl, two-thirds a cup sugar, one 
large tablespoon each butter and cream, one-half 
teaspoon soda; flour to stiffen like biscuit; put in last 
a pint of berries stirred in carefully so as not to break 
them; take out with a spoon, roll them in flour and let 
them rise in a pan before baking in a moderate oven. 

Indian Breakfast Cake. Two cups Indian meal, one- 
ihird cup flour, two and a half cups sour milk, one 
egg, and soda to sweeten the milk. 

'Indian Cake. Two cups meal, one cup flour, one cup 
cream, one cup milk, two-thirds cup sugar, three eggs, 
one teaspoon soda, one of salt. 



8 BREAD. 

Indian Drop Cake. Three cups meal, one cup flour, 
one pint sour milk, two eggs, two large spoons butter, 
one cup sugar, soda enough to sweeten the milk. 

Muffins. One cup sweet milk and an iron spoonful 
extra, three cups flour, one egg, two teaspoons cream 
tartar, one of soda, butter size of small egg, tablespoon 
sugar; beat egg, sugar, butter and cream tartar to- 
gether; stir in part of milk while putting in the flour, 
dissolve soda in remainder of the milk and stir in 
after it is well mixed. 

2. One egg, pint of flour, one and a hall pints milk, 
teaspoon butter rubbed into the flour, teaspoon cream 
tartar, half teaspoon soda. 

3. English. Two quarts flour, one-third of a yeast 
cake, one teaspoon salt, cold water to moisten; make 
the dough as stiff as for bread and rise over night; 
roll out until one-half inch thick; cut with large biscuit 
cutter; put them on a griddle on the back of the stove 
till they rise; then move forward to cook, turning over 
when done one side; remove from the fire when done; 
cover and allow to stand long enough to be made 
tender by the steam; split open, butter and serve; or 
when cold, split, tcast and butter. 

4. Graham. One cup flour, two cups wheat meal, 
two tablespoons sugar, teaspoon salt, half cup yeast, 
well mixed. Add half teaspoon soda dissolved in a 
little milk; not too stiff, almost thin as a batter. 

5. Graham. One egg, half cup sugar, butter size ot 
an egg, one and a half cups sour milk, one cup wheat 
flour, one and a half cups graham flour, half a teaspoon 
soda; bake in hot roll pans. 

6. Indian Meal. One cup meal scalded in one pint 
milk, butter size of an egg, tablespoon sugar, salt, one 
egg, half cup yealst and flour enough for rather a stiff 
batter; bake in a quick oven. 



BREAD. 9 

7. Raised. One pint sweet milk, half cup yeast, two 
tablespoons sugar, flour enough to make batter a little 
thicker than for fritters; rise over night; add in the 
morning two eggs, and bake in a quick oven. 

8. Raised. One quart flour, half a teacup yeast, two 
well beaten eggs, one and a half pints warm milk, half 
a gill melted butter; let rise, and when light bake in 
rings well buttered. 

9. Rye. One pint so ur milk, one pint rye meal, 
half cup molasses, one eggy one teaspoon saleratus, 
cup flour. Bake one-half hour. 

10. White. One cup milk, one and a half cups flour, 
one heaping teaspoon baking powder, whites of two 
^ggs, one-fourth cup butter, a little salt; bake in a 
quick oven. 

Pancakes. One Gggy one cup milk, one pint flour, 
half teaspoon soda, teaspoon cream tartar, salt; drop 
from teaspoon in hot lard; eat with syrup for breakfast. 

2. One egg, a little nutmeg, two-thirds cup sugar, 
one cup milk, teaspoon soda, two cream tartar, three 
cups flour; drop in hot fat. 

Parker House Rolls. Three-quarters cup yeast,three- 
quarters cup butter, three pints flour, one tablespoon 
sugar, one teaspoon salt; scald the milk and cool it, 
rise all day, cut out at night, and rise until morning; 
bake in a quick oven; fold over the edges, and put a 
bit of butter between the folds. As biscuit, just as nice 
with less butter. 

Potato Biscuit. At 9 a. M.^.(if wanted for tea) dis- 
solve one-half yeast cake in one cup warm water, add 
one cup mashed potato and one cup flour and a little 
salt; let it rise till noon, then add one-half cup lard, 
one-third cup sugar, two eggs and flour enough to 



10 BREAD. 

knead, but do not knead it; let it rise again till 4 
o'clock; then knead and form into biscuit and let rise ; 
brush the tops with milk; bake ten or fifteen minutes. 

Potato Cakes. Half a dozen common sized pota- 
toes, boiled and mashed smooth, a spoonful flour, two 
eggs, salt and pepper; stir until quite soft; fry like 
fritters. 

Potato Rolls. Boil one pint of sliced and peeled 
potatoes, pour off the water, mash fine, add one pint 
and a half of water, then strain; one-half cup sugar, 
tablespoon lard, teacup yeast; rise over night; this 
makes one loaf and a pan of rolls. 

Quaker Biscuit. Scald one cupful Quaker rolled 
oats with one pint bDiling water, and let it stand one 
hour; add one-half tablespoon shortening, a scant half 
cup molasses, one-half tablespoon salt, one-half yeast 
cake, dissolved in one-third cup lukewarm water, one 
quart flour; let rise, shape, rise again and bake in hot 
oven twenty minutes. 

Rice Crumpets. Two cups warm milk, one cup cold 
boiled rice, one tablespoon white sugar, two table- 
spoons melted butter, half a cup liquid yeast, flour to 
make a thick batter, salt to taste; beat the mixture 
well and let it rise till very light; just before putting 
into gem pans add a bit of soda dissolved in hot 
water; serve hot; bake about twenty minutes. 

Rusks. Make a sponge of two cups milk, one cup 
yeast, salt, flour enough for stiff batter; set it to rise 
at noon; in the evening mix in a cup of butter, two 
cups sugar, two eggs well beaten; let it stand all night 
to rise; in the morning mould into cakes, put them into 
pans so as not to touch; let them rise again, then bake; 
a little cinnamon may be added if desired. 



BREAD. II 

Raised Rye Bread. Pour one cup boiling water on 
one cup flour; when free from lumps add one heaping 
cup rye flour, or sifted rye meal, three-fourths cup 
molasses, a little salt, and scant half yeast cake; mix 
with three cups lukewarm water, adding flour to form 
a stiff batter; do this at night. In the morning take 
out with a spoon enough to fill. gem pan, (one dozen); 
let them rise about ten or fifteen minutes in the pan 
before baking; to the rest of the dough add a little 
more flour and a bit of butter and make into loaves; 
let it rise a little before baking; bake slowly. 

Raised Rye Biscuit* Three cups white flour, one 
cup rye flour, one-half cup sugar, one teaspoon salt, 
and a pinch of soda all sifted together; rub into this 
one teaspoon shortening, dissolve one-half yeast 
cake, and mix altogether with lukewarm milk and 
water to the consistency of raised dough; let it rise 
over night; in the morning form into biscuit and let 
rise again. 

Rye Rolls. Two cups rye meal, one cup flour, half 
teaspoop salt, a scant cup molasses, two full cups but- 
ter-milk or sour milk, a heaping teaspoon soda; beat 
in an egg the last thing; bake in a quick oven in gem 
pans. 

Squash Biscuit. One cup sifted squash, one-half cup 
sugar, one cup milk, one-half cup yeast, one-half tea- 
spoon saleratus, butter size of a large egg; flour to roll 
out. 

Squash Fritters. One pint sifted squash, one quart 
milk, three eggs, one teaspoon soda, salt, enough flour 
to make little stiffer batter than for common fritters. 

Squash Gems. One-half cup stewed snd sifted 
squash, one-fourth cup sugar, one cup milk, one egg, 
two cups flour, one heaping teaspoon baking powder. 



12 BREAD. 

Squash Griddle Cakes. One cup sifted squash, one 
cup sweet milk, one egg, flour enough to make them 
the right consistency. 

Steamed Whole Wheat Loaf. One-half cup molas- 
ses, two cups sour milk, one cgg^ two even teaspoons 
soda, one even teaspoon salt, three cups (a little scant) 
of whole wheat flour; steam three or four hours. It 
may be made with sifted graham meal; it resembles 
brown bread, but is more easily digested. 

Tea Rolls. Boil one cup milk, let it get cold, take 
one quart flour and rub in one-half tablespoon lard, 
make a hole in the middle of the flour and pour in the 
milk, and one-quarter cup yeast, and the same amount 
of sugar; let this stand over night, in the morning 
knead it again and form into rolls or biscuits, let it rise 
until tea time and bake in a moderately heated oven. 

WafBles. i. One quart flour, little salt, large tea- 
spooil butter, two eggs, half cup yeast; let it rise all 
day. 

2. Three pints milk, half cup boiled rice, while hot 
put in a piece butter size of an egg, half cup yeast, 
salt, flour to make a stiff batter; beat the egg very 
light and add the last thing; raise over night or during 
the day. 

3. German. Half pound butter stirred to a cream, 
yolks of five eggs, mixed with half pound of flour, 
half pint of milk stirred in gradually and lastly the 
whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff froth and beaten 
into the butter. 

Wheat Gems. Stir slowlv into cold water unbolted 
wheat flour enough to make it the consistency of hasty 
pudding, a little salt, and bake as muffins in a very 
quick oven. 



BREAD. 13 

Yeast. I. splendid. Boil eight large potatoes, mash 
fine, add one pint boiling water, one cup sugar, nearly 
half cup salt, stir until dissolved; add one pint cold 
water, strain through a sieve, add half cup yeast and 
set to rise ten or twelve hours before bottling. A 
pinch of hops can be boiled and strained over it with 
the boiling water. 

2. Grate four large sized raw potatoes; have ready 
one pint boiling water in which a small pinch of hops 
has been boiled, strain it over the potato; set it on the 
fire to cook five minutes, then add one-half cup sugar, 
one-quarter cup salt, one pint cold water, one-half cup 
yeast, let it rise and cork tight; this yeast will keep 
good three months. 

3. Four raw potatoes, grated; mix with them three 
spoonfuls flour, a good pinch of hops, with water 
enough to cover, boil ten minutes; then sftrain the 
water onto the potatoes and flour; add one and a half 
quarts boiling water; when lukewarm add cup yeast, 
one-half cup sugar, one-fourth cup salt and set away 
to rise. 



SOUPS, 



"Now good digestion wait on appetite." 

—[Shakespeare. 

Stock. Take lean beef and cold water, in propor- 
tion of one pound of beef to one quart water; place 
it in a soup kettle over a good fire; when it boils add 
cup of cold water and remove the scum; then place the 
kettle over a moderate fire and let it simmer slowly 
four or five hours; this stock may be used for all soups 
in which meat broth is desired. 

Black Bean. One pint black beans, soaked over 
night; in the morning pour off the water, add a gallon 
of water, with any bones, either of beef or mutton^ 
( very little meat needed), and boil several hours; 
season with salt and pepper; takeoff all the fat, strain 
the soup and let it boil again before serving; cut a 
lemon in thin slices and put into the tureen and pour 
the soup upon it; some add cloves and yolks of hard 
boiled eggs. 

Beef. Take sufficient soup stock; boil one onion, 
one carrot, one quart potatoes, and vegetables to suit 
taste, in a little water, and strain into the soup stock; 
add pepper, salt, etc., to suit. 

Bouillon. Put a shank of beef (six or seven pounds) 
into a large pot and cover with cold water; leave on 
front of stove until it boils, then move it to the back 
of stove and let it simmer an hour and a half; cut up 



SOUPS. 17 

two carrots, two onions, and half a lemon; salt to 
taste, and boil until the meat falls from the bones; 
then strain through a sieve and set in the cold; next 
day remove every particle of grease that has risen to 
the top; heat the bouillon and pour into cups, first 
having a slice of lemon in each cup; season to taste. 

Celery. Five heads of celery, one pint good soup 
stock, three of water, one-half pint cream or rich 
milk; cut the celery into inch lengths, put on with the 
water and cook until tender; take out the celery and 
rub through a sieve ; add to the soup stock and cook 
slowly one-half hour; heat the cream and stir into it 
one tablespoon flour rubbed into one tablespoon 
butter, cook five minutes; pour into the celery, heat 
very hot but not boil, and serve. 

Corn. One quart milk, one pint green corn (cut 
from the cob), two eggs, butter, pepper and salt to 
suit the taste. Cook half an hour. 

Lobster. Three crackers pounded fine, mixed with 
the tomally, piece butter size of an egg; boil one 
quart milk, and pour on the paste, stirring all the time 
until smooth; chop the lobster fine, put into the 
mixture, and boil, not too long, as it will make it tough. 
Pepper and salt. 

Mock Oyster. Six ripe tomatoes skinned and boiled 
in a pint of water, and a teaspoon saleratus, then add 
a quart of sweet milk, and four crackers pounded. 
Season with pepper and salt. 

Noodle. Two eggs, thicken with enough flour to roll 
out very thin, let dry two hours, roll and cut very 
thin; boil twenty minutes in chicken already prepared 
for soup. Season with onions. 



18 SOUPS. 

Pea. One pint split peas, three quarts water, half 
pound salt pork, boil three or four hours, adding more 
water as it boils away. 

Potato. Take six good sized potatoes, boil soft, four 
onions boiled soft; mash both together till smooth; 
take three pints new milk, piece butter size of an egg, 
add potatoes and onions; bring to a boiling point, but 
do not let it boil. Season with salt and pepper. 

Tomato, i. One teaspoon butter, two teaspoons 
flour, one pint beef stock, one-fourth of a small onion, 
put butter in frying pan, cut onion in small pieces and 
brown; add one can tomatoes and cook one hour; 
pass through sieve, return to fire and add the stock 
and flour; season with salt, pepper and Worcester- 
shire sauce. Serve hot. 

2. One pint cooked tomatoes, one pint water, when 
boiled add half teaspoon soda; when done foaming, 
add one quart hot milk; season well with butter, 
pepper and salt. 

3. One pint boiling water, take one can tomatoes, 
let it come to a boil, then add two tablespoons flour 
mixed with the juice from the kettle with the tomato; 
season with sugar (or not), salt, pepper, butter to 
taste; boil all together twenty minutes, then strain 
through a fine sieve. Perfectly delicious. 



FISH. 



'•"With hooks and nets you catch us, 

You never regard our pains; 
Yet we reward you with dainty food, 

To strengthen your body and brains." 

Baked Cod. Pour boiling water over the fish, and 
keep hot an hour; then take it off the bone and put in 

a dish with a quart of milk, half an onion, one-quarter 
pound butter, very little thickening of flour, little salt, 
and cover with bread crumbs. Bake an hour and a 
half. 

Baked Fish. Take a fish weighing from four to six 
pounds, wash clean, season with salt; make a dress- 
ing with five crackers rolled fine, one tablespoon 
butter, one teaspoon salt, little pepper, one-half tea- 
spoon chopped parsley, water enough to make moist, 
stuff the fish with this preparation, fasten with skewer, 
cut slits in fish, put in strips of salt pork, dredge with 
flour. Bake one hour, basting often. Serve with 
tomato sauce. 

Baked Lobster. Two or three lobsters chopped fine, 
season with pepper, salt and a tablespoon melted 
butter, one pint milk thickened with a tablespoon of 
flour, one teaspoon of mustard. Mix all together and 
bake with cracker crumbs on top. 

Baked Shad Roe. Wash and cook three shad roes 
in boiling water, salted, with one tablespoon vinegar 
for ten minutes. Place on a buttered plate, cover 
with tomato sauce and bake thirty minutes, basting 
twice. 



22 FISH. 

Tomato Sauce. Two tablespoons butter, one table- 
spoon flour, one teaspoon salt, one teaspoon pepper, 
one cup stock, one cup strained tomatoes, a few drops 
onion juice. Very nice. 

Devilled Crabs. Make one cup cream sauce with 
one tablespoon melted butter, one heaping teaspoon 
flour, one cup hot cream; season with salt, pepper, a 
little cayenne and half salt spoon mustard, tablespoon 
parsley; add the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs, rubbed 
to a paste; with this add one-half can of crabs; fill the 
shells, cover with buttered crumbs, brown in oven. 

Escaloped Lobster. Cut the meat of a three pound 
lobster into small pieces; melt two tablespoons butter 
in a sauce pan, add two tablespoons flour, one-half tea- 
spoon salt, one-half teaspoon pepper, few grains of 
cayenne; when bubbling pour on slowly one pint hot 
milk or one cup milk, and one cup hot white stock; 
add the lobster and fill buttered ramequins with the 
mixture; cover with buttered bread crumbs, bake until 
brown. 

Fillets of Halibut. Wipe and cut into strips one 
and one-half pounds halibut, sprinkle with lemon juice, 
salt and pepper, and lay a thin slice of onion on each 
strip; cover and let stand one-half hour, then remove 
the onion, dip the strips in melted butter, skewer into 
shape; place on a plate, dredge with flour, and bake 
two minutes in a hot oven. Serve with white sauce 
made with three tablespoons of butter, and three of 
flour. 

Fish Balls. One pint bowlful of raw fish, two heap- 
ing 'bowlfuls of pared potatoes, two eggs, butter the 
size of an egg^ a little pepper; pick the fish very fine, 
and measure it lightly in the bowl; put potatoes into 



FISH. 23 

the boiler and the fish on top of them, cover with boil- 
ing water and boil half hour; drain off all the water, 
mash fish and potatoes together until fine and light; 
then add the butter, pepper and egg well beaten; drop 
from a spoon into boiling fat and cook until brown. 

Fish Croquettes. One pint of any kind of cold 
boiled fish, flake very fine, removing all bone and skin; 
season well with salt, pepper and chopped onion; boil 
one cup milk, add one tablespoon butter, thicken with 
one tablespoon flour; mix with the fish and set aside 
to cool; when cool shape and rub in fine crumbs of 
bread or cracker, dip into- beaten egg, then roll again 
in crumbs taking care that every part is covered; fry 
in boiling fat and serve on a hot platter. 

Lobster Croquettes. One pint of lobster meat cut 
fine; season with one salt spoon salt, one of mustard, 
little cayenne; moisten with one cup thick cream sauce, 
cool and shape, roll in crumbs, egg and crumbs again, 
and fry in smoking hot fat. Drain on paper. 

Oyster and Clam Fritters. One and a half pints 
milk, one and a quarter pounds flour, four eggs, 
whites and yolks beaten separately, whites stirred in 
last lightly; clams must be chopped small; oysters used 
whole. 

Oysters, i. Broiled. Roll each oyster in pounded 
cracker, lay them on an oyster gridiron and broil each 
side; make a gravy by pouring boiling water on butter 
and adding salt to taste. Serve hot. 

2. Roast. Put a quart of oysters in a basin with 
their own liquor, and let boil three minutes; season 
with a little salt, pepper and butter. Serve on buttered 
toast. 



24 FISH. 

3. Scalloped. Four crackers, two tablespoons butter, 
teaspoon pepper, one quart oysters; put a layer of 
oysters with pepper and salt, then a layer of cracker 
crumbs with butter, until the dish is full. Bake twenty 
minutes. 

Potted Shad. A white stone jar, and one on which 
vineg^ar will have no effect is the first requisite; cut the 
shad in pieces to fit in the jar, with a little salt, pepper 
and whole cloves between each layer, then pour vine- 
gar over the whole and cover tightly; cook slowly all 
day in oven; serve when cold. If the vinegar is too 
strong dilute it. 

Salmon Croquettes. One pound can salmon, one cup 
powdered cracker, one cup cream; salt and pepper, 
and least touch of nutmeg; roll in cracker crumbs and 
beaten Qgg, and again in cracker crumbs and fry. 



MEATS. 



" God sendeth and giveth both mouth and the meat.'* 

How to Choose Heats. It is always important to 
know how to choose meat in buying. Ox beef should 
be of fine grain or fibre, the flesh or lean of a bright 
red color and firm, the fat white, and distributed 
throughout the lean; it should not be yellow or semi- 
fluid. If the meat is entirely lean, it will be tough and 
its nutritive power is low. Veal is dry if fresh. It 
should be close-grained. If the meat is moist and 
flabby it is stale. Mutton should be of a clear, deep 
pink tint; firm, and with a liberal supply of fat. Fine 
wether mutton may be recognized by the presence of 
a small mass of fat on the upper part of the leg. It 
is more nutricious than ordinary mutton, the darker its 
tint the finer its flavor. Pork should be of a pale deep 
pink tint, and the fat very firm. If it is soft or the fat 
ib yellow the meat is bad. If it is semi-fluid the animal 
has probably been fed on flesh. 

Potted Beef. Take a large beef shank and put it 
into cold water to cover it, boil until perfectly tender, 
remove bone and cartilage, chop the meat fine 
and replace it in the kettle with the liquor which 
should be one quart, let it simmer gently and season 
with salt, pepper and mace td suit the taste. Press and 
cut in slices for lunch or tea. 

Croquettes. To lise up small, nice pieces of meat, 
chop them fine, and mix bread crumbs, a little broth 
or gravy, an cggy pepper and salt. Make into cakes 
and roll in flour, and fry in hot drippings. 



28 MEATS. 

Meat Pie. Cut up some good, tender, raw beef or 
mutton, season with pepper, salt, and if liked one finely 
chopped onion; boil half dozen good sized potatoes, 
when done, mash smooth and wet with milk enough to 
make a dough to make the crust, salt to taste; roll out 
full half an inch thick, and line a buttered dish large 
enough to hold the meat; lay in the meat, add a tea- 
cup of water or a little less, then roll out a thick crust 
of the potato, covering the top of the pie at least an 
inch thick, and bake about an hour and a half. 

Meat and Potato Pie. Butter a baking dish; put in 
layer of cold mashed potatoes, or sliced ones, but if 
these are used, small pieces of butter must be added; 
on the potato put a layer of meat cut in small pieces, 
little salt, pepper and a few rings of onions; then more 
potato, and in this way fill the dish having the top 
potato. Before the last layer of potato, pour in any 
gravy you may have; bake until the potato is a nice 
brown. 

Devilled Ham. One pint boiled ham chopped fine 
with a good proportion of fat, one teaspoon dry mus- 
tard, one tablespoon flour, one-half cup boiling water. 
Press in a mould and cut in slices. 

Roast Lamb and Mint Sauce. Stuff a hind quarter 
of lamb with fine bread crumbs, pepper, salt and 
butter; rub the outside with salt, pepper, butter and 
flour; then roast two hours. Mint sauce: — Chop the 
mint fine; pour on a little hot water; let it stand on 
the stove a short time, then add a little vinegar and 
sugar to taste. 

Sausages. Six pounds lean and two pounds fat pork, 
four tablespoons salt, six of sage, four of pepper, two 
of cloves. 



MEATS. 29 

To Chop Suet. Sprinkle flour . over it while chop- 
ping, which will prevent the pieces from adhering. 

Veal Loaf. i. Three pounds raw veal, one-quarter 
pound salt pork (less will do if a little butter is used), 
chop fine, mix with two eggs, one cup cracker crumbs, 
three teaspoons salt, two of pepper, one tablespoon 
sage; press hard into a pudding dish and bake two 
hours. To be sliced when cold. 

2. Three and a half pounds of raw veal, three slices 
salt pork chopped fine, six crackers pounded fine, two 
eggs beaten, tablespoon salt, teaspoon pepper, two 
pinches allspice, one of cloves, knead all together into 
a loaf, egg it over, put bits of butter on the top and 
scatter pounded cracker. Bake two hours basting 
with water. 

Minced Veal. Three and one-half pounds of veal 
chopped fine, four eggs well beaten, four crackers 
pounded fine, one tablespoon salt, the same of pepper, 
one-half tablespoon nutmeg, three tablespoons cream 
or milk, butter the size of an egg. Mix all together 
in a loaf and bake two hours. 

Veal Cutlets. Cut veal into pieces for serving; 
season with salt and pepper; dredge with flour (or egg 
and crumbs); brown in salt pork fat; put into stew 
pan; make brown gravy; season highly with vegeta- 
bles cut fine or Worcestershire sauce. Pour over meat 
and simmer till tender (one and one-half hours). 

Timbales. Mince and season meat with salt and 
pepper; add one egg and about one-half as much bread 
crumbs as meat; make moist enough with gravy and 
put in thoroughly buttered cups and bake in pan of 
water or not. 

Camelons. Made same as Timbales, but baked in a roll 
one-half hour and served with tomato sauce around it. 



FOA^L. 



^* And as an ev'uing dragon came, 
Assailant on the perched roosts 
And nests in order rang'd 
Of tame villatic fowl.'^ 

—[Milton. 

Chicken Pie. Cut into pieces the chickens, boil in 
enough water to cover until tender, adding when half 
done one tablespoon salt; take out chicken, keep warm, 
and thicken the liquid with one tablespoon each flour 
and butter rubbed together; add salt and pepper to 
taste; boil five minutes; take one quart flour, two tea- 
spoons Cleveland's baking powder, little salt and one 
small cup butter; mix as biscuit. Take half, roll one- 
quarter inch thick and line a deep dish, leaving an inch 
over the sides to turn up over top crust; put in chicken, 
pour over gravy, cover with the other crust, with a 
large hole in center for steam to escape. Wet the 
edge and fold over the under crust, press firmly to- 
gether; spread soft butter over the top, make ornament 
to fit the center and bake until done. 

Chicken in Jelly. Boil a chicken or chickens in as 
little water as possible until the meat falls from the 
bones; pick off the meat, cut it rather fine, and season 
well with pepper and salt; put into the bottom and 
sides of a mould slices of hard-boiled eggs and fill 
nearly full with chicken. Boil down the broth till 
there is about a cupful left; season it well and pour 
over the chicken. It will form a jelly around the 
chicken. Let it stand on the ice over night or all day. 
To be sliced at table; garnish with fringed celery. If 
there is fear of the jelly not being stiff enough a little 
gelatine may be soaked and added. 



FOWL. 31 

Chicken Croquettes. One pound cooked chicken 
chopped fine, one-fourth pound white bread, one-fourth 
pound butter, four eggs, three large teaspoons finely 
chopped parsley, pinch of mace and nutmeg, one tea- 
poon salt, one pinch cayenne pepper; pour enough boil- 
ing water over the bread to soften it, place on the fire 
with the yolks of two eggs and cook until smooth; set 
away to cool, while mixing the chicken with the rest of 
the eggs unbeaten, two tablespoons thick cream, the 
butter and seasoning; beat all thoroughly together till 
nicely*mixed; let the mixture get quite cold before 
forming into croquettes. A famous Southern receipt. 

Maryland Chicken. Singe, remove fine feathers, cut 
into pieces for serving, wipe, season with salt and 
pepper, dip in eggy roll in fine cracker crumbs; put 
pieces into a buttered dish and bake one hour, basting 
very^^often with one-third cup butter and one cup 
water. Serve with cream sauce. 

Pressed Chicken. Boil chicken very tender; be sure 
to have plenty of liquor; separate white meat from the 
dark; soak three slices of bread in the liquor for a 
few minutes, then chop it up with the dark meat. Put 
white meat in the bottom of the dish, pour a little liquor 
on, then put on a layer of dark meat, leave until it is 
cold, and it will turn out like jelly. 

Roast Duck. After the duck is drawn, wipe the in- 
side with a clean cloth and prepare dressing as follows: 
One cup pounded cracker, moisten with hot milk or 
water, three medium sized onions, parboil and chop 
fine, little butter, sage, pepper and salt to taste; mix 
all together and fill the crop and body of the duck, 
leaving room for the dressing to swell; reserve the 
liver, gizzard and heart for gravy; tie the body of the 



32 FOWL. 

duck firmly with a string (which is buttered to keep 
from burning), and put in the oven. Baste first with 
salt and water, and then with its own gravy, dredging 
them last with a little flour. 

Potted Pigeons. Make dressing the same as for tur- 
key, stuff them and fry in pork fat until nicely 
browned; take them out, pour the fat into a kettle 
with little water, put them into this, and let them 
simmer half an hour or more. When done, take them 
out, thicken the broth a little and pour over them. 

Turkey. For a ten pound turkey take two pints 
bread crumbs, half teacup butter, cut in small pieces, 
one teaspoon summer savory, pepper and salt; fill tur- 
key with little of the dressing, few strained oysters, 
alternating until filled. Put the oyster liquid in the 
pan with a pint of water; bake in a moderate oven. 



EGGS, 



" From the egg to the apples (for a dinner) from the beginning to the end." 

Egg Vermicelli. Boil three eggs twenty minutes; 
separate the yolks and break the whites with a silver 
fork into fine pieces; toast four slices of bread, cut half 
into small squares and half into points or triangles; 
make one cup of thin, white sauce with one cup cream 
or milk, one teaspoon butter, one heaping teaspoon 
flour, one-half teaspoon salt, one-half saltspoon of 
pepper; stir the whites into the sauce, and when hot 
pour it over the squares of toast; rub the yolks 
through a fine strainer over the whole, and garnish 
with the toast points and parsley. 

Omelette, i. Soak one-half cup bread crumbs in a 
cup of milk, with salt to taste; when soft, add four 
well beaten eggs, and pour into a hot spider, in which 
is a generous piece of butter; cook slowly for ten 
minutes, slip a knife around the edges, roll or fold it 
and put on a platter. 

2. Six eggs, whites beaten to a stiff froth, yolks 
well beaten; one cup warm milk, one tablespoon flour 
wet to a paste with cold milk; one teaspoon salt; mix 
all except the whites, add them last; cook immediately 
in a buttered spider for about ten minutes, fold like a 
turnover. 



36 EGGS.. 

Baked Eggs. One pint milk, four eggs beaten sep- 
arately, scald the milk and thicken with one tablespoon 
flour, let it cool a little; add the yolks, the whites, and 
a bit of salt; pour in a buttered dish and bake till it 
rises like a custard. 

Shirred Eggs. Take as many eggs as there are 
persons to eat them; separate the eggs and beat whites 
to a stiff froth, drop it in a Washington pie tin in 
bunches, put yolk on top of each and a little pepper, 
salt and butter. Put in a very hot oven and brown 
lightly. 

A La Cream. Boil ten eggs until hard; slice in 
rings; in the bottom of a baking dish place a layer of 
bread crumbs, then one of eggs; cover with bits of 
butter, pepper and salt, until all are used; pour over 
them a cup cream and brown in the oven. 

Dropped. Drop fresh eggs into a saucepan of boil- 
ing water, with salt in it; have ready slices of buttered 
toast; then take up with a skimmer and lay on the 
toast. 



VEGETABLES. 



" Earth's increase, foison plenty, 
Barns and garners never empty. 
Vines with clustering bunches growing. 
Plants with goodly burthen bowing." 



TIME FOR COOKING VEGETABLES. 





SUMMER. 


WINTER. 


Green Peas, 


1-2 hour 




String Beans, 


2 hours 




Squash, 


1 hour 


1 hour 


Asparagus, - - - 


- 1-2 hour 




Cabbage, - - - 


1 hour 


3^ hours 


Turnips, . - _ 


1 hour 


2 hours 


Parsnips, - - - 





1 hour 


Carrots, . . _ 





1 1-2 hours 


Beets, 


1 hour 


3 1-2 hours 


Shelled Beans, 


1 hour 




Onions, - - - 





1 hour 


Potatoes, 


- 1-2 hour 


1-2 hour 


Potatoes, Baked, 





1 hour 


Spinage, . . - 


1 hour 


1 1-2 hours 


Corn, - . - 


1-2 hour 




Sweet Potatoes, 





3-4 hour 


Sweet Potatoes, Baked, 





1 hour 



SALADS. 



" To make a perfect salad there sliould be a miser for oil, a spendthrift for 
vinegar, a wise man for salt, and a mad cap to stir the ingredients up and mix 
them well together."— [Spanish Proverb. 

Cabbage. Chop the cabbage, taking out the core 
and coarse parts of the leaves. Sprinkle with salt, 
black pepper, dry mustard and celery — salt to suit your 
taste. Two good sized cabbages, beat two eggs light, 
add two cups vinegar, piece butter the size of an egg^ 
heat it until it comes to a boiling heat and thicken a 
little, stirring carefully all the time, and then pour it 
hot over the cabbage, mixing thoroughly. When cold 
it is fit to eat. Most excellent. 

Chicken or Lobster. The meat of two lobsters or 
two chickens, three-quarters the same bulk of celery, 
yolks of five eggs, two teaspoons mustard, one tea- 
spoon pepper, half teaspoon salt for lobster, whole 
teaspoon salt for chicken, one-third cup vinegar. One 
small bottle sweet oil stirred gradually into the egg, a 
few drops at a time. After it begins to thicken, add 
the other ingredients well mixed in the vinegar. 

Egg. Boil a dozen eggs twenty minutes; cut them 
at one side and slip out the yolks; mash yolks smooth 
with small piece of butter, salt, a little made mustard; 
moisten with vinegar and salad oil alternately. Fill 
the whites with the mixture and serve on a lettuce leaf. 



SALADS. 39 

Salmon. One pint salmon, free fronn bones, skin 
and oil. Two parts white cabbage shredded fine, or 
cut; moisten with boiled dressing, garnish with dark 
green lettuce. 

Dressing for Cabbage. One or two eggs, beaten, half 
teacup vinegar, one tablespoon mustard, butter half 
the size of an egg; thin with milk or cream — if milk» 
more butter should be used — teaspoon salt, two tea- 
spoons sugar, pepper. Pour over chopped cabbage. 

Dressing for Salad. Five tablespoons oil, half pint 
strong vinegar, two teaspoons mustard, one teaspoon 
salt, half teaspoon pepper, add little cayenne to taste, 
four eggs well beaten. Put vinegar on the stove in. 
kettle of hot water and let it come to a scald, add the 
rest of ingredients and stir till it thickens. 

Dressing for Lobster Salad. Four eggs, one tea- 
spoon pepper, one teaspoon salt, two teaspoons mus- 
tard, five tablespoons butter. Beat all together until 
it thickens up smooth. 

Leontine's Lobster. Two medium sized lobsters, one 
cup vinegar, piece butter size of an egg, put them on 
to boil. Beat up one or two eggs, one teaspoon each 
salt, sugar, mustard, curry, half teaspoon pepper, juice 
of a lemon; put the mixture into the vinegar and cook 
until it thickens, adding rather more than half cup 
milk. Add lettuce or celery if desired. Very nice. 

Salad Dressing, i. Yolks of six eggs, one teaspoon 
mustard, one teaspoon salt, one teaspoon pepper, one 

and a half teaspoons sweet oil stirred gradually into 

the egg, few drops at a time, until perfectly smooth, 

then add half cup vinegar. Reserve little of the 

dressing without the vinegar, to which add capers and 

olives split. 



40 SALADS. 

2. One tablespoon mustard, one tablespoon butter 
or oil; rub mustard and oil together thoroughly and 
add one tablespoon salt, one tablespoon sugar, three 
€ggs (well beaten), one cup rich milk; let the mixture 
warm slightly and add one cup strong vinegar; let it 
•come almost to a boil; if bottled it will keep some 
time. Excellent with fish. 

3- One and one-half cups cream, one-half or two- 
thirds cup vinegar, three eggs, one tablespoon mus- 
tard, one tablespoon oil or butter, one scant tablespoon 
salt, three tablespoons sugar; mix oil with mustard; 
add eggs, then salt and sugar; mix thoroughly with 
the vinegar and strain through coarse sieve; have the 
cream hot in milk boiler; add above mixture slowly, 
stir until it thickens. Milk and more butter can be 
used in place of cream. 

4. Bangor. Two (rounded) tablespoons butter, two 
(scant) tablespoons flour; butter and flour cooked 
together till smooth; add slowly one cup (or less) of 
vinegar, two whole eggs or three yolks, two table- 
spoons sugar, dash of cayenne, one teaspoon mustard, 
stir into one pint hot milk; cook like soft custard; 
adding salt if needed; beat with egg beater and strain. 
One cup cream, whipped, is an improvement. 

5. Cream Dressing. The yolks ol two hard-boiled 
eggs rubbed very smoothly, then add dessertspoon 
mixed mustard, blend the two thoroughly, then stir in 
a tablespoon melted butter, half cup thick cream, little 
salt, cayenne pepper and sugar; add little by little 
vinegar enough to make the whole a smooth creamy 
mass. Last of all add the whites of two eggs, well 
beaten. 



SALADS. 41 

Mustard Dressing. Three tablespoons mustard, one 
and one-half teaspoons sugar, three-quarters tea- 
spoon salt, enough boiling water to mix it; when cool 
add one and one-half tablespoons oil, and vinegar to 
thin it. 

Yolks of eight eggs, well beaten, one-fourth cup 
sugar, one tablespoon salt, three tablespoons of the 
mustard described above, cayenne to taste, one- 
half cup milk, one cup butter; stir all together over 
the fire as you would soft custard. When somewhat, 
cooled add one-half pint vinegar. Bottle tight. 

Welsh Rare-bit. One-quarter pound nice cheese, cut 
in thin slices, put in a spider pouring over it a large 
cup milk, stirring until the cheese is dissolved, one- 
quarter teaspoon dry mustard, dash of pepper, and a 
pinch of salt; stir the mixture all the time till dis- 
solved, add three pounded crackers, and a piece butter 
size of a butternut. As soon as they are stirred in 
turn into a warm dish and serve. Nice for tea. 



PIES. 



" Wiirt please you taste of what is here ? '* 

—[Tempest. 

Pie Crust. One quart flour, one-half pound lard, 
one-quarter pound butter, with water; knead till 
smooth, roll it out thin three times, touching it each 
time with the lard, sprinkling with flour and rolling it 
up to be rolled out again. 

Pie Crust Glaze. To prevent juice soaking through 
a pie and making it soggy, wet the crust with the 
beaten white of an egg, before you put in the pie mix- 
ture. If the top of the pie is also wet it gives it a 
beautiful brown. Milk can be used on the top of a 
pie, and will be quite as satisfactory. 

Cocoanut. Three cups flour, two of sugar, one of 
milk, one-half cup butter, flour, four eggs, two teaspoons 
cream tartar, one teaspoon soda, vanilla to flavor. 
For the Inside: Whites two eggs, two cups powdered 
sugar; flavor with vanilla. Cover the first sheet of 
cake with a layer of this, then one of grated cocoanut; 
cover the top of the cake in the same way. 

Cream. One cup sugar, heaping cup flour, three 
eggs, butter size of an egg, one teaspoon cream tartar, 
one-half teaspoon soda dissolved in a little hot water 
added just before going ii>to the oven. Cream: One 
cup milk, two eggs, two tablespoons flour, one-half 
cup sugar. Flavor with lemon. 

Chess. Beat the yolks of three eggs till smooth, add 
one-half cup sugar and beat again, then add one-third 
cup butter, rubbed to a cream, and one-half teaspoon 



PIES. 45 

vanilla; bake on a plate lined with puff paste; when 
done, cover with the whites of three eggs, beaten stiff, 
and mixed with one-half cup powdered sugar and one 
teaspoon lemon juice. Brown slightly and cut while 
hot. Not to be served cold. 

Lemon, i. Six lemons, four cups sugar, six eggs, 
two ounces butter; grate the rind of the lemons and 
strain the juice; rub the butter and sugar together, 
then add the eggs well beaten, then the lemon. This 
makes two pies. Line the plates with rich puff paste 
and bake without top crust. 

2. Juice and grated rind of one lemon, one cup 
sugar, one cup water, four eggs well beaten, (reserv- 
ing the whites of two for frosting); cover plate with 
puff paste and bake without top crust. Beat reserved 
whites with two tablespoons sugar and put on top of 
pie and brown lightly. 

3- Beat one cup sugar and one egg together, add 
juice and grated rind of one lemon, then one and one- 
half cups pounded cracker; bake on plate covered 
with rich paste; when done cover with whites of one 
egg and one-half cup sugar beaten together. Brown 
lightly. 

4. Extra. Six apples, four lemons, four cups sugar, 
four eggs. Grate the lemons and apples. 

Marlborough, i. Two pounds apples, stewed and 
sifted, one pound butter, melted, one pound sugar, 
twelve eggs, juice of two lemons, five tablespoons 
cream, little nutmeg and cinnamon. Bake in rich puff 
paste. This amount makes five pies in medium-size 
plates. 

2 Steam and strain six good sized apples, add while 
hot one tablespoon butter; when cool, stir in the yolks 
of three eggs, the grated rind and juice of one lemon, 



46 PIES. 

one cup sugar. Bake on plates lined with puff paste 
and use the whites of the eggs for frosting. 

Squash, i. (Very Nice.) Peel, core, steam and 
strain one squash; thin with milk to the consistency 
of thick apple sauce; allow four eggs to one quart of 
milk. Beat the eggs, and add sugar, salt and lemon 
to taste. 

2. One cup stewed and sifted squash, one cup boil- 
ing milk; when cool add one heaping cup sugar, two 
eggs, little salt, little nutmeg and cinnamon. The 
grated rind of a lemon is an improvement. 

Orange. Juice and grated rind of one orange, one 
cup sugar, yolks of three eggs, one tablespoon corn 
starch stirred smooth with milk, one cup milk and 
piece butter size of a chestnut. Bake on plates lined 
with puff paste. Beat the whites of the eggs with 
three tablespoons sugar and put on top and brown 

Hince Meat. Three pounds beef, one pound suet, 
one pound pork, cooked and chopped fine, add enough 
water from the meat to make moist; chop and add 
nine apples, three pounds raisins, and one pound 
citron; if currants are liked add one pound; then add 
one quart cider, one pint boiled cider, (wine or brandy 
may be used instead), four pounds brown sugar, two 
tablespoons cinnamon, two of nutmeg, one of mace, 
allspice and cloves; use salt to taste. The grated rind 
of lemon is an improvement. 

Mock Mince. One cup sugar, one-half cup butter, 
one cup vinegar or wine, one-half cup molasses, one 
cup cold water, one cup raisins, one cup currants, three 
pounded crackers, two eggs, one lemon, salt, and tea- 
spoon each of spice of all kinds. This quantity makes 
three pies. 



PIES. 47 

Rhubarb. One cup chopped rhubarb, one cracker 
pounded fine, yolks of two eggs, one cup sugar, one 
teaspoon lemon, salt, and bits of butter. Whip the 
whites of the eggs for frosting. 

Modern Rhubarb. One cup chopped rhubarb, one 
cup sugar, one egg. 

Saratoga. One and one- half cups stewed apples, 
three eggs, one gill cream, one tablespoon butter, two 
of chopped citron, eight macaroons; melt the butter 
and mix thoroughly with the other ingredients and 
bake between two crusts. 

Apple Custard. One quart stewed and sifted apple, 
one quart milk, one cup sugar, two tablespoons melted 
butter, little grated lemon and nutmeg, six eggs, well 
beaten. Bake without top crust. 

Bambury Tart. One coffee cup raisins, seeded, and 
chopped fine, one cup sugar, one egg, juice and grated 
rind of one lemon; stir all into a paste. Make a puff 
paste and cut into rounds with a biscuit cutter; place 
a teaspoon of prepared mixture on a round, and cover 
with another round, pressing the edges well together. 
Bake in a quick oven. Fine for picnics. 

Cream Raspbeary. Line a pie dish with puff paste 
and fill with well sweetened raspberries; cover with a 
crust but do not pinch down the edges; butter the 
lower edge to prevent adhesion; bake in a quick oven. 
While this is cooking, heat a small cup of milk, 
add a pinch of soda, then stir in one teaspoon 
corn starch, wet in cold milk, and one teaspoon sugar 
and cook three minutes. Remove from stove and beat 
in the frothed whites of two eggs; beat until it is a 
stiff cream, and when cold raise the top crust of the 
pie and pour the cream mixture over the raspberries, 
then replace the crust and let it get cold before serving. 



PUDDINGS. 



" The daintiest last, to make the end more sweet." 

[—Kino Bichabd II. 

Apple. One quart flour, one pint milk, one teaspoon 
soda, two teaspoons cream tartar, and small piece 
butter; roll out and fill with sliced apples; steam three 
hours. Served with sauce. 

Apple Charlotte. Butter an earthen dish, and place 
around the sides slices of bread which have been cut 
about one inch thick, then soak in cold water and 
spread with butter, fill dish with sliced apple, grate over 
them one nutmeg, add one cup sugar, one cup water; 
cover with slices of bread which have been soaked 
and buttered and place a large plate over the dish and 
bake four hours; remove from the oven and let it get 
cool. When ready to serve, loosen around the edges 
with a knife and turn out on a dish. Serve with sugar 
and cream. 

Apple Cream. Three tart apples, baked slowly (be 
careful not to brown the pulp); remove the skin and 
cores and strain, add one and one-half cups sugar, 
whites of two eggs, beaten stiff, and juice of one 
lemon; beat to a stiff froth. Serve with boiled custard 
made of the yolks of the eggs. 

Charlotte Russe. One-third box gelatine dissolved 
in a coffee cup milk, one pint cream, sweetened and 
flavored with vanilla; beat together and let it ^tand 



PUDDINGS. 49 

until it begins to stiffen, then stir in the beaten whites 
of five eggs; line a dish with thin slices of plain cake 
(sponge being best), and pour in the mixture and set 
away to harden. When ready to serve, turn out on a 
dish. 

Chocolate. Boil two cups bread crumbs in one quart 
milk till it thickens then let it cool; beat the yolks of 
five and the whites of two eggs with one cup sugar 
and three tablespoons grated chocolate, and add to the 
cooled mixture and bake one-half hour; beat the 
whites of three eggs with five tablespoons sugar and a 
small teaspoon vanilla, and spread over the pudding 
when cold and brown lightly. Eat cold with or with- 
out cream. 

College. Yolks of two eggs, one-half cup sugar, one- 
half cup butter, one cup milk, one pint flour, teaspoon 
cream tartar, one-half teaspoon soda. Sauce: Whites 
of two eggs, one and one-half cups sugar and juice of 
one lemon beaten stiff. 

Cottage. One cup sugar, one egg, three tablespoons 
melted butter, one cup milk, two cups flour, one tea- 
spoon cream tartar, one-half teaspoon soda. Bake 
one-half hour. Serve with hot sauce. 

Cracker. One quart milk, eight tablespoons pounded 
cracker, four tablespoons sugar, five eggs, one-half 
pound raisins, piece of butter on top. Bake one-half 
hour. 

Columbia. Two and one-half cups flour, one cup 
molasses, one cup sour milk, one-half teaspoon cinna 
mon, one teaspoon soda, one-half cup chopped pork or 
suet, one-half cup raisins. Steam three hours. 



50 PUDDINGS. 

Cocoanut. Boil ten minutes one quart milk and 
three tablespoons tapioca (which has soaked in water 
over night), then add and let boil five minutes longer, 
the beaten yolks of four eggs, one cup sugar, three 
tablespoons cocoanut; this should be cooking enough; 
pour in a fancy dish and cover with the whites of the 
eggs, beaten to a stiff froth with three tablespoons 
sugar; sprinkle cocoanut on top and brown lightly. 
To be eaten cold. 

Indian, i. One quart milk (reserving one cup); 
scald the milk, add three tablespoons meal wet in a 
little cold milk; boil two minutes, then add one cup 
molasses, the remainder of the milk, one-half cup cold 
water, one egg. Bake in a moderate oven at least 
three hours. 

2. Three tablespoons Indian meal, one cup molas- 
ses, two quarts milk, two eggs, butter half the size of 
an egg, one tablespoon ginger and two teaspoons salt. 
Boil half the milk and pour it on the meal, then add 
all the rest and bake four or five hours. 

English Plum. Two cups molasses, one cup milk, 
two cups chopped suet, two cups chopped raisins, one 
teaspoon salt, two teaspoons soda, beat in the molas- 
ses, nutmeg, cloves and mace to taste, few strips citron 
and flour enough to make it stiff. Steam five hours. 

2. Beat six yolks and four whites of eggs very 
light, and add to them a tumbler of sweet milk; stir 
in gradually one-fourth pound grated stale bread, one 
pound flour, three-quarters pound sugar, pound each 
of beef suet, chopped fine, currants nicely washed and 
dried, stoned raisins well floured; stir well, then add 
two nutmegs, a tablespoon mace, one of cinnamon, 
one-half of cloves, one wine glass brandy, one tea- 



PUDDINGS. 51 

spoon salt, and finally another tumbler of milk; one 
pound of citron (blanched sweet almonds are also a 
great addition but may be omitted); boil in bowls or 
moulds five hours. These will keep for months. When 
wanted steam one hour. Serve with a sauce made of 
drawn butter, sugar, wine and nutmeg. 

Mountain Dew. One pint milk, four tablespoons 
pounded cracker, yolks three eggs well beaten; bake 
to a light brown; beat the whites of the eggs with one 
cup sugar and the juice of one lemon, spread over the 
pudding and brown lightly. To be eaten cold.* 

Queen of Puddings. One pint bread crumbs, one 
quart milk, yolks four eggs, piece butter size of an 
egg, one cup sugar, the grated rind of one lemon; 
bake one-half hour. Spread preserves or jelly on top, 
then cover with the whites of the eggs, beaten to a 
stiff froth with one cup sugar and the juice of one 
lemon. Brown lightly. 

Scarboro Puffs. One quart milk, one tablespoon 
butter, twelve eggs, little salt; boil the milk, and while 
boiling, stir in flour until the batter is stiff enough for 
the spoon to stand up in when cold; after it is cold, 
stir in the butter, and one egg at a time without beat- 
ing; drop from a spoon into hot lard and fry a light 
brown; roll while hot in sugar and cinnamon, mixed. 
Sauce: To a cup of cream, beaten to a froth, add one 
cup sugar and flavor to taste. 

Sponge. One cup sugar, one-half cup butter, one 
cup milk, four eggs, two teaspoons cream tartar, one 
of soda, three cups flour. Bake one hour. Eat with 
liquid sauce. 



52 PUDDINGS. 

Tapioca Cream. Soak over night three tablespoons 
tapioca in water enough to soften and cover it; in the 
morning scald one quart milk and stir in the tapioca, 
then add the yolks of three eggs, well beaten with one 
cup sugar and a little salt. Beat the whites of the eggs 
with three tablespoons sugar and spread on top. To 
be eaten cold. 

Orange Cream. Soak one-fourth box gelatine in 
one-fourth cup cold water till well softened; scald one 
pint milk and pour over the gelatine, and stir in the 
yolks of two eggs and sugar to taste; when smooth 
and thick, strain and cool, then add the juice of three 
or four oranges and a little orange flavoring, and the 
stiffly beaten whites of the eggs, or better still, one 
cup whipped cream. Set on ice until wanted. 

Rye. One pint milk, two eggs, little salt, three 
tablespoons rye meal; steam one-half hour, and then 
the rye should be on top and bottom with the custard 
between. Serve with sauce. 

Pineapple. Soak one-half box gelatine in one-half 
cup water two hours; grate one small pineapple into a 
sauce pan with one cup sugar, one cup water, simmer 
ten minutes, add the gelatine and strain; when cool, 
add the whites of four eggs, and beat until it begins to 
thicken, then put into a mould to harden. Serve cold 
with a soft custard flavored with wine. 

Carrot. One-half pint grated bread crumbs, one- 
fourth pound flour, one-fourth pound butter, one-half 
pound candied cherries, one-half pound boiled and 
sifted carrot, one-half pound sugar, cne teaspoon 
baking powder, little salt and two eggs. Steam in melon 
mould two and one-half hours. Serve with hot sauce. 



PUDDINGS. 53 

Apple Meringue. Make a syrup of one and one- 
half pints water, two cups, sugar and one lemon; pare 
and quarter ten apples, cook in the syrup until they 
are red, then put in a dish that will hold at least one 
quart; make a custard of one pint milk, yolks three 
eggs, one-half cup sugar and flavor with lemon; when 
it becomes cold, pour over the apples and cover with 
frosting made from the whites of the eggs and two 
tablespoons confectioners' sugar. • Brown in the oven. 
To be eaten cold. 

Fig. One-half pound bread crumbs, one- half pound 
figs chopped fine, one-half pound suet, chopped fine> 
little salt, one-half cup sugar, two eggs well beaten; 
flavor with nutmeg. Boil in a tin pudding mould four 
hours. Eat with hot sauce 

Almond Rice. Blanch one-half cup almonds; put 
with one cup well washed rice, one-fourth cup sugar, 
one-half teaspoon salt, into three cups hot milk and 
cook in double boiler till the rice is tender. Serve hot 
or cold with jelly and whipped cream. 

Snow Balls. One cup flour, three well beaten eggs, 
one cup sugar, one tablespoon milk, one-half teaspoon 
soda, one teaspoon cream tartar. Steam in cups thirty 
minutes. Serve with liquid sauce. 

Prune Whip. Soak one pound prunes over night; 
in the morning stew till tender with one cup sugar, 
then rub through a sieve; beat till stiff the whites of 
four eggs, then add the sifted prunes and the grated 
rind and juice of one lemon; beat all well together, 
then heap on a dish and bake in the oven till a delicate 
brown. Serve with whipped cream or a custard made 
with one pint milk, the beaten yolks four eggs, four 
tablespoon ssugar and a little salt. Flavor with vanilla. 
To be eaten cold. 



54 PUDDINGS. 

Coburg. Heat three cups milk in a double boiler; 
cook one-half cup well washed rice in one cup boiling 
water five minutes, or till the water is absorbed, then 
turn it into the hot milk and cook till tender; add one 
teaspoon salt, one teaspoon butter, one well beaten 
^&S» ^wo tablespoons sugar, and let it cook a few 
minutes; turn into a dish for serving, and sift over 
the top a little sugar and cinnamon, and dot thickly 
with butter. Set it in the oven a few minutes when 
ready to serve. 

Caramel Custard. One-half cup sugar, put in a pan 
and stir till it melts and is brown, then add two tea- 
spoons water and one quart hot milk; beat six eggs 
with a little salt, one teaspoon vanilla, stir into the 
milk and pour into a buttered mould; set the mould 
in a pan of hot water and bake thirty minutes. Serve 
cold with a sauce made with one-half cup sugar, put 
in a pan and melted, and when brown, add one-half 
cup water and boil ten minutes. It can be flavored 
with vanilla or not. 

Lemon Jelly. One-half box gelatine, soaked till 
soft in cup water; take one pint water and boil an inch 
piece of stick cinnamon, and the grated rind of two 
lemons, ten minutes, then add the gelatine, one cup 
sugar, one-half cup lemon juice, and when well dis- 
solved, strain and set on ice. 

Tipsy Trifle. Take six oranges, remove skin, white 
part and seeds; slice, put in dish with cup sugar 
sprinkled over them and let stand two hours. For the 
cream: one quart milk, yolks five eggs, one-half cup 
sugar, one-half cup flour, little salt; scald milk, add 
eggs, sugar and flour; stir briskly; add one teaspoon 
'vanilla, grated rind two oranges; place oranges in dish 



PUDDINGS. 55 

and cover with cream. Beat whites of eggs to a stiff 

froth; add two cups powdered sugar, one-quarter tea- 
: spoon cream tartar, little vanilla, beat until stiff. Take 

one-half and color with strawberry, then put in dish 
; spoonful each alternately; brown in oven. To be eaten 

cold. This is delicious as well as ornamental. 

Strawberry Trifle. One cup sugar, one-half cup 
milk, two eggs, two cups flour, one teaspoon cream 
tartar, one-half teaspoon soda. Bake this in Wash- 
ington pie tins. It will make two. 

For filling, take one cup milk, yolk of one egg, 
one tablespoon flour, two tablespoons sugar and cook. 
Just before serving, split the cakes and fill with mashed 
strawberries and put the custard on top. Beat the 
whites of two eggs and put on top of the custard and 
dot with berries. 

Fruit. Dissolve one box gelatine in one pint cold 
water, then add one pint boiling water, two cups sugar 
and the juice of three lemons; strain and let it stand 
till it begins to harden, then add two oranges, cut in 
small pieces, two sliced bananas, six figs cut fine (if 
you like them), six dates cut fine, ten chopped nuts, 
one-half pound candied cherries, and one-quarter 
pound of angelica. Any kind of candied fruit can be 
used as well as those named. Wine can be added- 
Serve with whipped cream. 

Fruit Salad. Bananas and oranges sliced and mixed 
in a salad bowl; to the juice of two oranges add one 
gill sherry wine, two ounces sugar, the white of one 
egg. Simmer this for five minutes, but do not let it 
boil, then strain, and when cool, pour over the fruit 
and place it on ice till time to serve. 



SAUCES. 



" Hunger is the beet sauce." 

1. Beat one-half cup butter to a cream, then add 
one cup powdered sugar, four tablespoons wine or 
brandy, and one-quarter cup cream. Place bowl in 
hot water and stir over the fire till creamy. 

2. One tablespoon flour rubbed with one-half cup 
butter, one cup sugar. Stir into one cup boiling milk 
and add one egg beaten separately. 

3. One cup butter, one cup sugar, creamed to- 
gether, with one box of strawberries or raspberries; 
makes a delicious sauce for cottage or bread puddings. 

Hard Sauce. Rub one cup sugar, one-half cup 
butter to a cream, then add the beaten white of one 

egg and put on ice to harden. 

MoUie's Pudding. Stir one egg, one cup sugar till 
foamy and the sugar is dissolved. Cook one dessert- 
spoon flour in three tablespoons of water ten minutes, 
beat into the sugar one egg just before serving. Flavor 
with vanilla. 

Plain Pudding. Melt one heaping tablespoon butter, 
add two tablespoons flour, stir in one and one-half 
cups hot water, cook well, then add one and one-half 
cups sugar, two teaspoons lemon juice and a little 
nutmeg. 



SAUCES. 



59 



Raspberry Foam. One cup mashed raspberries, one 
cup sugar and white of one egg. Use strawberries if 
you like. 

Wine. Wet one tablespoon corn starch in cold 
water, stir in one cup boiling water; cook ten minutes. 
Rub one-fourth cup butter with one cup sugar, then 
add one well beaten egg, one saltspoon grated nutmeg 
and one-half cup wine, and add to the hot corn starch, 
stirring until well mixed. 

For Whipped Cream. One tablespoon gelatine, dis- 
solved and flavored, can be stirred into cream, and will 
give a little more body to it. 

Foaming Sauce. Beat one-half cup butter to a 
cream, add one cup granulated sugar and stir until it 
is white and foaming. Just before serving, pour on it 
one cup boiling water and stir a moment. 



FROZEN DISHES. 



" That makes one's mouth water." 

Arrowroot Ice. One large tablespoon arrowroot, 
mixed with cold water; pour upon it very slowly one 
quart boiling water, the juice of four lemons, a little 
of the peel shred very fine, with one pound of sugar. 
Stir it together and freeze. 

Bisque Glace. Two quarts cream, one-half dozen 
macaroons, poundad fine (they must be stale if not 
dried in the stove), pour a little cream over them and 
allow them to stand till they soften. Beat until very 
fine then add the rest of the cream and freeze. It is 
not well to have the macaroons too thick in the 
cream. 

Cafe Parfait. Line a mould with coffee ice cream, 
made with one pint milk, one egg, one scant table- 
spoon flour, one-half teaspoon salt, one cup sugar, 
one-half cup coffee, one pint cream, and freeze; then 
into this lining of cream put a whipped cream mixture 
of one pint cream, one cup sugar, one-half cup strong 
coffee chilled and whipped. Pack the mould in ice 
and salt, let stand two hours before serving. 

Caramel, for coloring ice creams, soups, jellies and 
sauces. Melt one cup sugar (brown or white) with one 
tablespoon of water in a frying pan; stir until it be- 
comes a dark brown color; add one cup boiling water; 



FROZEN DISHES. 6l 

simmer ten minutes and bottle when cool; this should 
be kept on hand, as it is useful for many purposes; it 
gives a rich dark color to soups, coffee and jelly, and 
is a delicious flavoring in ice cream, custards and pud- 
ding sauces. 

Chocolate Cream. Scrape one-fourth pound choco- 
late very fine, put it in a quart of rich milk or cream; 
boil it until dissolved stirring occasionally; thicken 
with one egg. When cream is used the egg may be 
dispensed with. Then freeze. 

Coffee Cream. One-half cup boiled coffee, one-half 
cup sugar, yolks of two eggs; when cool add one pint 
whipped cream, sweetened with one-half cup sugar; stir 
all well ; put in ice cream freezer and pack like ice cream. 
Do not turn crank. Freeze from four to five hours. 

Frozen Pudding. One pint milk, one pint cream, 
one tablespoon gelatine, one egg, one heaping cup 
sugar, one cup figs, one cup raisins, one cup dates; 
soak gelatine in a little of the milk about twenty 
minutes; scald the rest of the milk and cream, and 
when hot pour onto the beaten egg and sugar, and 
then {)our the whole on the gelatine and stir until dis- 
solved, then add the fruit. Cool and freeze. 

Ice Cream. Five eggs, one pint milk, two cups 
sugar, little salt. Make custard of above over night. 
In the morning add three pints cold milk, one cup 
sugar, two tablespoons vanilla flavoring. 

Delicious Ice Cream. One quart cream, one pint 
milk, three cups sugar, three tablespoons ground 
coffee; whip the cream until it is of a velvetry con- 
sistency and will pour; put sugar and milk into freezer, 
stir to dissolve, then add the cream, whipped a little 
at a time; steep the coffee ten minutes in two-thirds 



62 FROZEN DISHES. 

cup of boiling water, strain through a cloth. When 
cold add to the mixture and freeze. If vanilla is used 
one tablespoon is enough. 

Ice Cream. One quart milk, six or eight eggs, one 
cup sugar, one pint to one quart cream. Sugar to 
taste. Flavor to taste. Make a boiled custard with 
the milk, sugar and the yolks of the eggs; cook it 
slightly but not curdled; strain, and when cool, add 
the cream and sugar to make it quite sweet, and any 
flavoring desired. If cream can not be obtained beat 
the whites of the eggs till foamy and add them 'Just 
before freezing. Use one-fourth box gelatine for two 
quarts of custard; soak in one-half cup cold milk and 
dissolve in the boiling custard when taken from the 
fire. If the custard should curdle it will become 
smooth when frozen. Very nice. 

Fruit Ice Cream. Two quarts milk, six eggs, about 
one and one-half pound sugar, one and a half table- 
spoons Bermuda arrowroot. Cook it as a custard. 
When cold flavor with two tablespoons vanilla and 
three wine glasses Sherry wine; then add one pound 
figs, one-quarter pound citron, and other fruits cut 
fine. Freeze like ice cream. 

Strawberry Ice Cream. Sprinkle sugar over the 
berries; mash and rub through a fine sieve. Measure 
the juice and use one pint of juice to two quarts well 
sweetened cream. 

Ice Cream. One quart cream, not too rich, one wine 
glass Sherry wine, one teacup white sugar. Mix thor- 
oughly and freeze. Ripe strawberries or peaches cut 
up, well sweetened, and mixed with cream are very 
nice frozen. 



FROZEN DISHES. 63 

Lemon Ice. One quart water, juice six lemons, one 
pound sugar, one gill cream (scant one-half cup), 
two teaspoons lemon extract. Mix thoroughly, strain 
and freeze. 

Lemon Sherbet i. Two quarts cold water, two pounds 
sugar, boiled together twenty-five minutes, two table- 
spoons gelatine soaked in some of the water and sugar 
meanwhile. After the water and sugar are taken off 
add the gelatine, strained, and when the whole is quite 
cold put in juice of six lemons; add two or three 
eggs beaten to a froth when partly frozen. 

2. One tablespoon gelatine, one quart water, one 
pint of sugar, juice six lemons. The boiling water 
used in dissolving the gelatine should be part of the 
quart of water. 

3« One quart milk, one pint sugar, the grated rind 
of one lemon, boiled together; cool, and put into the 
freezer; when partly frozen add the juice of five 
lemons and the beaten whites of three eggs. 

Orange Water Ice. Eight oranges, three lemons, 
three pounds loaf sugar, one box gelatine dissolved in 
cold water enough to make one and one-half gallons. 
Extract the oil of rind of oranges and lemons by rub- 
bing the rind with lumps of sugar. 

Velvet Cream. Six eggs, two coffee cups granulated 
sugar; beat eggs and sugar together until very light; 
add two quarts of milk, one quart hot and one quart 
cold; put the cold milk over the eggs and sugar, stir 
well, then add the hot milk; put into milk boiler, stir 
constantly ten minutes till it becomes very thick. 
When cool flavor with vanilla, then freeze. This can 
be improved by adding cream — to every pint of cream 
add one-half teacup sugar. 



64 FROZEN DISHES. 

Walaut Bisi|ue* One quart cream, one cup sugar, 
scalded together. To this add one square of chocolate, 
melted; strain and add one tablespoon vanilla, one cup 
English walnuts, broken. Then freeze. 

Water Ice. One tumbler any kind of preserved 
fruit, raspberries, pineapple or currants are the best, 
because they have more flavor. Strain it through a 
sieve, pouring over it as you strain it three pints of 
water sweetened to taste, and freeze hard and solid, or 
it is not good. If the preserve has not flavor enough 
grated lemon peel or the peel of a Mandarin orange 
will make it good. Brandy peaches are extremely 
good, and the wild grape is very nice as it has such a 
beautiful color. Jelly is just as good as preserve in 
freezing. No gelatine, white of egg or arrowroot is 
needed. 



CAKE. 



" "Where honey is, there are the bees." 

" Three rounding teaspoons baking powder are equal 
to one level teaspoon of soda and two full teaspoons 
of cream tartar." — Mrs, Lincoln, 

Almond, i. One and a half cups sugar, half cup 
butter, two-thirds cup milk, three cups flour, whites of 
seven eggs, one teaspoon cream tartar, one- half tea- 
spoon soda, small cup almonds blanched and pounded, 
one large teaspoon of almond essence. Flavor frost- 
ing with rose water. 

2. One cup butter, two cups sugar, three and one- 
half cups flour, one-half cup milk, whites eight eggs, 
two teaspoons cream tartar, one teaspoon soda. Flavor 
with almond. 

3. Two cups sugar, one cup butter, whites six eggs, 
one cup milk, three and a half cups flour, heaping tea- 
spoon cream tartar, half teaspoon soda, three tea- 
spoons almond extract, half pound blanched almonds 
on top. Sprinkle with sugar. 

Almond Silver. One coffee cup sugar, one-half cup 
butter, beaten together to a cream; one-half cup milk, 
one-half teaspoon cream tartar, one-quarter teaspoon 
soda. Add whites four eggs, beaten to a stiff froth, 
and two full cups flour. Flavor with almond. 



66 CAKE. 

Almond or White. Whites of six eggs, two cups 
sugar, one cup butter, one cup milk, three cups flour, 
one teaspoon cream tartar, half teaspoon soda dis- 
solved in the milk, two teaspoons almond essence. 

Angel. Whites of eleven eggs, one and one-half 
cups granulated sugar, one cupful flour, measured 
after being sifted four times, one teaspoon cream tartar, 
one teaspoon vanilla extract; sift the flour and cream 
tartar together; beat the whites to a stiff froth; beat 
the sugar slowly into the eggs, adding the seasoning 
and flour, stirring quickly and lightly; bake for forty 
minutes in a moderate oven. Do not grease the pan^ 
and use a new tin or a bright one. 

Blueberry. One-half cup butter creamed, one cup 
sugar, two eggs, one cup milk, one teaspoon soda, twa 
teaspoons cream tartar in one and one-half pints of 
flour; little salt, roll one pint blueberries in two hand- 
fuls of flour. 

Boston Gingerbread. One pound sugar, one pound 
butter, two pounds flour, six eggs, one pint molasses,, 
one gill of water, one teaspoon soda, two teaspoons 
each allspice, cloves and mace, one quart of fruit, 
half pound of citron. Bake in two loaves three hours. 

Boston Puffs. Half pint boiling milk, piece butter 
size of walnut, salt, one and a half cups flour scalded 
together. When cool, beat in three eggs separately. 
Fry in lard, as pancakes, then roll in sugar and cinna- 
mon mixed. 

Bread. Three cups of raised dough, two cups sugar, 
one-half cup butter, one cup raisins, teaspoon soda, 
spice to taste. 



CAKE. 67 

Bride's, i. One-half cup butter, two cups sugar,, 
whites five eggs, one cup cold water, three cups flour, 
one teaspoon soda, two cf cream tartar, sift last two 
into the flour. Flavor with almond. Make one sheet. 

2. Whites of four eggs, one cup sugar, half cup 
butter, one-half cup milk, two cups flour, two tea- 
spoons cream tartar, half teaspoon soda. Flavor with 
almond. 

Bridgewater. Two cups sugar, two-thirds cup butter^ 
three eggs, three and a half cups flour, one cup sweet 
milk, half teaspoon soda, one teaspoon cream tartar. 

Caramel. Two cups sugar, three-fourths cup butter, 

not quite a cup milk, whites of eight eggs, three 

cups flour, two teaspoons baking powder. Flavor to 

taste. Bake in three layers. Icing: — Two cups sugar, 

butter size of a walnut, not quite a cup of milk. Boil ten 

minutes, cool, then beat until stiff enough to spreail 
on the cake. 

Chocolate Cake. One cup butter, two cups sugar, 
three and a half cups flour, five eggs, leaving out 
whites of two, one cup milk, teaspoon cream tartar, 
one-half teaspoon soda. Frosting: — While hot, frost 
with the following: Whites of two eggs, one and a half 
cups sugar, six tablespoons grated chocolate. 

2. One cup sugar, half cup butter, two cups milk, 
two cups flour, two eggs, teaspoon soda; grate two 
squares chocolate, mix with another half cup milk, add 
yolk of one egg^ one teaspoon vanilla and sweeten to 
taste. Boil the mixture until soft, add to the other, 
bake three-quarters of an hour. 

3 One cup sugar, one-fourth cup butter, one-fourth 
cup milk, one-half cup grated chocolate, dissolved in 
one-fourth cup boiling water, two eggs, one cup bread 



68 CAKE. 

flour, one teaspoon cream tartar, one-half teaspoon 
soda. Flavor with vanilla and frost with boiled choco- 
late frosting. 

Chocolate Cocoanut. One-half cup butter, one cup 
■sugar, one egg and yolks of two, one cup sweet 
milk, two cups flour, one tablespoon baking powder, 
two small cakes of chocolate, one-fourth cup cocoa- 
nut, salt; beat sugar and butter together, add the 
beaten eggs, flour, powder and milk; put cocoanut in 
-milk to soften, and add melted chocolate last. Bake 
in three layers. Fill with one cup sugar, boil until it 
•hairs; beat the whites of the two eggs to a stiff froth, 
add one-fourth cake chocolate, one-fourth cup cocoa- 
nut. Flavor with vanilla. Improves by keeping a little 
while. 

Citron. One pound sugar, three-quarters pound 
butter, one pound flour, eight eggs, half cup sour milk, 
one-half teaspoon cream tartar, one teaspoon soda, one 
pound citron. 

Clove. Two cups sugar, one cup butter, two cups 
•stoned raisins, chopped fine, one teaspoon cloves, 
two of nutmeg, one and one-half of cinnamon, one 
cup milk, two eggs, one-half teaspoon soda, one tea- 
spoon cream tartar, two and one-half cups flour. This 
cake is better when a week old than when first baked. 

Cocoanut. i. One cup sugar, two cups flour, two 
cups cocoanut, two tablespoons butter, two eggs, tea- 
spoon cream tartar, half teaspoon soda. Soak the 
cocoanut in a cup of milk. 

2. Two cups sugar, one cup butter, one cup milk, 
four cups flour, teaspoon soda, two of cream tartar, 
whites of seven eggs, one cup grated cocoanut. 
Frosting: — Whites of three eggs, one cup grated 
cocoanut, sugar as for other frosting. 



CAKE. 69 

3- Four cups flour, three cups sugar, one cup butter, 
one cup milk, one teaspoon cream tartar, one-half tea- 
spoon soda, five eggs, one cocoanut grated, juice of a 
lemon. 

4* One pound sugar, one-half pound butter, three- 
quarters pound flour, five eggs, one cocoanut grated. 

5* One cup butter, two cups sugar, whites of ten 
Gggs, four cups flour, one cup milk, one cup prepared 
cocoanut soaked in the milk, two teaspoons baking 
powder. Bake in sheets in a rather quick oven. If 
you use the fresh cocoanut use two cups of it. 

6. One, Two, Three, Four. One cup butter, twa 
cups sugar, three cups flour, four eggs (using the 
whites only), one cup milk, one teaspoon cream tartar 
sifted into the flour, one-half teaspoon soda in the 
milk, one-half of a cocoanut, grated, and stirred in at 
the last. 

Cocoanut Cream. Three eggs, one cup sugar, one 
cup flour, two tablespoons melted butter, three table-^ 
spoons mil]c, one teaspoon cream tartar, one-half 
teaspoon soda. Filling: — One-half pint milk, one 
tablespoon flour, small pinch salt, three tablespoons 
sugar, yolk of one egg\ the white for frosting. Use 
shredded cocoanut in both frosting and filling, and 
flavor with vanilla. 

Cold Water. Two cups sugar, one cup butter, 
one cup cold water, four cups flour, one cup each 
raisins and currants, three eggs, teaspoon soda, half 
teaspoon cream tartar, salt, teaspoon each of all kinds 
spice. Put all together and stir well with the hand until 
smooth. 

Composition. Two cups butter, three cups sugar, one 
cup milk, five cups flour, five eggs, one pound raisins,^ 
one nutmeg, teaspoon soda. 



70 CAKE. 

Cookies. One-half pound butter, one-half pound 
^ugar, two eggs, reserving white of one egg, scant tea- 
spoon soda; roll very thin, lay two or three blanched 
almonds on cake before baking. Wet soda in a drop 
of milk. Flour sufficient to roll. Rich. 

2. One-half cup butter, one cup sugar, one-half cup 
milk, one egg, flour enough to roll. 

3. One cup butter, two cups sugar, one-half cup 
sour cream, one-third cup milk, three eggs, one tea- 
spoon soda, one teaspoon cream tartar. Nutmeg and 
lemon. 

Cocoanut Cookies. Two cups sugar, one cup butter, 
two cups grated cocoanut, two eggs, one teaspoon bak- 
ing powder. Mix with enough flour to roll very thin. 
-Bake in quick oven but not brown. 

Molasses Cookies, i. One egg^ one cup molasses, 
one-half cup butter, one even teaspoon soda; ginger to 
taste, little salt. Flour to roll thin. 

2. To one cup of molasses boiled for a moment, 
add one-half cup shortening; let it melt in, then stir 
thoroughly; when partly cool stir in flour with one 
teaspoon soda sifted in it till it is as hard as possible, 
then set away to cool. After it is perfectly cold roll 
out as thin as possible and bake quickly. Put in salt 
and one teaspoon of ginger when mixing it. 

Soft Molasses Cookies. One cup sugar, one cup 
molasses, one cup sour milk, three-fourths cup short- 
ening, half of which shall be butter or lard; beef drip- 
pings may be used for the remainder; one heaping tea- 
spoon soda, one egg not beaten, salt and ginger to taste; 
work shortening and sugar together, stir in egg, sift 
soda into flour; mix very stiff, roll out one-half inch 
thick and cut into rounds. 



CAKE. 71 

Rice Flour Cookies. One-half pound sugar, one-half 
pound rice flour, four eggs. 

Sugar Cookies. Beat one cup butter to a cream, 
then add two cups sugar, two eggs, one tablespoon 
milk, four and one-half cups flour, one-half teaspoon 
soda mixed with it; roll thin; bake quick. 

Corn Starch. One cup butter, two cups sugar, one 
cup sweet milk, one cup corn starch, two cups flour, 
whites of seven eggs, teaspoon soda, two teaspoons 
cream tartar; flavor with lemon or almond; frosting 
will improve it. Very nice. 

Cream. Two cups sugar, one cup sour cream, rubbed 
together; two well beaten eggs, teaspoon saleratus dis- 
solved in milk, flour enough to make it a little stiffer 
than common cake; flavor to taste; bake from half to 
three-quarters of an hour. 

Cream Cakes, i. One pint hot water, half pound but- 
ter, three-quarters pound flour, ten eggs, one teaspoon 
soda, dry; boil the water and butter together and stir 
in the flour while boiling; let it cool, then stir in the 
eggs one at a time, without beating. Drop on buttered 
tins and bake in a hot oven. Inside: — One cup flour, 
two cups sugar, one quart milk, four eggs, pinch of 
salt; boil the milk, beat the flour, sugar and eggs to- 
gether, and stir into the milk while boiling. Flavor. 

2. Let one cupful of hot water and one-half cupful 
of butter come to a boil; while boiling stir in one cup 
flour; when cold, stif in three eggs, not beaten. Drop 
by spoonfuls into a buttered tin and bake in a quick 
oven. Filling: — One cup milk, one-half cup sugar, 
bring to a boil and add two tablespoons flour, or one 



72 CAKE. 

tablespoon corn starch, beaten smooth, with a spoon- 
ful milk, one egg, well beaten. When the cream cakes 
are cold, split, but not wholly; lay round and fill. 

Crullers. Three tablespoons sugar, three table- 
spoons lard, three eggs, mix like doughnuts; fry 
quick, turn every second. 

Crumpets. One cup brown sugar, one cup chopped 
raisins, one-half cup butter, one egg, half teaspoon 
soda in a large spoon of milk; all kinds of spice; roll 
thin. 

Currant. Three-quarters of a cup of butter, two 
cups sugar, three cups flour, one cup milk, one and 
one-half cups currants, four eggs, one teaspoon soda, 
two teaspoons'cream tartar. 

Dayton. One cup butter, two cups sugar, three cups 
flour, five eggs, one-half cup milk, teaspoon cream 
tartar, one-half teaspoon soda. This cake is very nice 
spiced a good deal, with raisins and other fruit added. 

Delicate, i. Two cups sugar, one-half cup butter, 
whites of six eggs, three-quarters cup sweet milk, 
nearly three cups flour, half teaspoon soda, one tea- 
spoon cream tartar; lemon for flavoring. * 

2. One and one-half cups sugar, one-half cup 
butter, one-half cup milk, half teaspoon soda, two cups 
flour, into which rub one teaspoon cream tartar. Add 
last the whites of four eggs beaten to a stiff froth. 
Flavor with lemon. 

Delicious, i. Two cups sugar, one cup butter, one 
cup milk, three cups flour, three eggs, half teaspoon 
soda, scant teaspoon cream tartar; stir the butter and 
sugar together, add beaten yolks, then the beaten 
whites. Dissolve the soda in the milk, rub cream tartar 
in the flour and add the last thing. Very nice. 



CAKE. 73 

2. One pound sugar, one-half pound butter, yolks 
of fourteen eggs, one pound flour, two teaspoons cream 
tartar sifted in flour, one cup sweet cream, one tea- 
spoon soda dissolved in a little water. Bake in a quick 
oven. 

Doughnuts. I. Two cups sugar, two cups sour milk, 
two eggs, small piece melted butter, teaspoon soda, 
little salt. Make very soft, better to stand a few days 
before frying. 

2. Aunt Caroline's. Two quarts flour, two and a 
half cups granulated sugar, two eggs, two-thirds cup 
yeast mixed together; stir teaspoon of cinnamon, tea- 
spoon salt, butter size of a large egg into two-thirds of 
a pint qf milk heated. Mix the above ingredients 
with the milk. Rise over night; knead well. 

3. Aunt Grant's. Six heaping tablespoons sugar, 
one of butter, two or three eggs, cup sour milk, half 
teaspoon soda, spice. 

4* One pint sweet milk, one teaspoon soda, two 
cups sugar, one-half cup butter, four eggs, one nut- 
meg, salt, flour enough to roll out. 

Molasses Drop. One cup sugar, one cup molasses, 
one-half cup butter or lard, one cup cold water, one 
egg, one large teaspoon soda, five cups flour. Flavor 
with cloves and cinnamon. 

English Walnut. One scant cup butter, two cups 
sugar, three cups flour, one cup milk, four eggs, one 
pound English walnuts, one teaspoon cream tartar, 
half teaspoon soda. Bake in sheets. 

Feather. One and a half cups sugar, three cups 
flour, one-quarter cup butter, three-quarters cup milk, 
two eggs, two teaspoons cream tartar, one teaspoon 
soda, salt, flavor with lemon. 



74 CAKE. 

Fig. Two cups sugar, one-half cup butter, one cup 
milk, whites five Gggs, beaten stiff, three cups flour, 
two teaspoons baking powder; about one cup figs cut 
up quite fine and sifted over with flour. Soaking them 
over night in wine or brandy improves them. Nice. 

Filling for a Layer Cake. Grate one largr, tart 
apple, one lemon grated and the juice squeezed out, 
one egg, one cup sugar. Let this boil for five minutes; 
stir it constantly. Eat while fresh. 

French. Two cups sugar, one-half cup butter, one 
cup milk, three cups flour, two teaspoons cream tartar, 
one teaspoon soda dissolved in milk. Beat the sugar, 
butter, cream tartar and yolks together, whites sepa- 
rately, four eggs. 

French Loaf. One pound sugar, half pound butter, 
two eggs, half pint milk, one pound flour, one tea-spoon 
soda, one pound raisins, one cup currants, one nutmeg, 
citron, wine-glass of brandy. 

Fruit. One pound citron, two pounds currants, two 
pounds raisins, one pound flour, one pound butter, one 
pound sugar, nine eggs, half teaspoon soda, half cup 
molasses, teaspoon each, cloves, nutmeg, mace, cinna- 
mon and allspice, and two of lemon. 

2. Five eggs, two cups brown sugar, one-half cup 
molasses, one and a half cups butter, three and a half 
cups flour, three-quarters pound citron, one and a half 
pounds currants, same of raisins, spice of all kinds. 
Bake three or four hours very slowly. 

3. One and one-half pounds brown sugar, one 
pound butter (or two cups melted), one pound flour (or 
one quart), four pounds raisins chopped, three pounds 



CAKE. 75 

currants, one pound citron, chopped or sliced, one- 
half pound chopped almonds, ten eggs, three table- 
spoons cassia, three tablespoons cloves, two table- 
spoons mace, three nutmegs, two ounces vanilla or 
part rose extract, teaspoon soda dissolved in one-half 
cup coffee, brandy or butter. Add the beaten whites 
of the eggs the last thing. Steam four hours and dry in 
the oven for twenty minutes. It will keep perfectly 
for an indefinite time if not eaten. 

German. One cup butter, two cups sugar, three and a 
half cups flour, half teaspoon soda, one of cream tartar, 
half cup milk, four eggs. Drop into buttered tins, 
sprinkle with sugar and cinnamon. 

Gingerbread, i. Sugar. Six cups flour, two cups 
sugar, one cup butter, one cup milk, teaspoon soda. 
Roll thin. 

2. Hard Sugar. Three quarters pound sugar, same 
of butter, one and a half pounds flour, four eggs, 
ginger, small teaspoon soda. Roll very thin and bake 
on tin sheets. 

3. Maggie's. One cup molasses, one-half cup butter 
and lard mixed, two-thirds cup sour milk, teaspoon 
soda, teaspoon ginger, five coffee cups flour. Mix as 
soft as you can roll. 

4. Molasses. One cup molasses, one large table- 
spoon lard, teaspoon salt, teaspoon ginger, teaspoon 
soda dissolved in one-half cup of cold water, three 
scant cups flour. 

5. One cup molasses, butter size of an eg^, one 
egg, one-half cup sour milk, one and one-half cups 



^t CAKE. 

flour, one teaspoon soda, cloves, ginger. Beat molasses, 
^Z'^ 2ind butter together, add flour gradually, alternat- 
ing with the milk. 

6. Simplest and Best. One cup molasses, one heaping 
tablespoon of shortening (butter and lard), one tea- 
spoon salt, a little of all kinds spices, one teaspoon 
soda in one-half cup hot coffee. Flour for a soft batter. 

Ginger. One cup molasses, one cup brown sugar, 
three-fourths cup lard or butter, three cups flour, one 
cup boiling water, two teaspoons soda, two eggs. Spice 
to taste. Boil molasses, sugar, flour and butter 
together, then add hot water and soda, lastly the eggs. 
Bake in a cool oven. 

Ginger Puffs. One cup molasses, one cup sugar, one 

cup water, one-half cup butter, one ^^%^ five cups flour, 
tablespoon soda, tablespoon ginger and cinnamon. 
Drop on tins and bake. 

Ginger Snaps. One cup butter, one cup sugar, two 
cups molasses, one cup warm water, two teaspoons soda, 
four tablespoons ginger, roll thin, bake in hot oven. 

2. One and a half pounds flour, one-half pound 
lard, one pint molasses, three teaspoons soda, dis- 
solved in a little water, two tablespoons ginger, little 
salt. Rub flour and lard together, roll thin, cut in 
squares. 

Gold. I. Yolks of eight eggs, one tablespoon butter, 
four cups flour, one cup sweet milk, two cups sugar, 
teaspoon soda, two of cream tartar. Flavor with lemon. 

2. One cup butter, two cups sugar, three cups flour, 
one cup sweet milk, one teaspoon cream tartar, one- 
half teaspoon soda, yolks six eggs and one whole ^%^\ 

flavor with lemon. Use whites of two eggs for frosting. 



CAKE. T^ 

Golden. Yolks of eight eggs, one cup sugar, two 
cups flour, one-half cup butter, one-half cup milk, one 
teaspoon cream tartar, half teaspoon soda. Flavor 
with vanilla. 

Graham. One half cup butter, one and one-half 
cups sugar, one cup milk, three and a half cups pastry 
flour, one and one-half cups raisins stoned and chopped, 
one ^^%^ one teaspoon soda, nutmeg. Sift sugar over 
the top and bake an hour and a half in a moderate oven. 

Harrison. Two cups molasses, two cups butter, one 
cup milk, five cups flour, four eggs, two pounds 
chopped raisins, teaspoon soda. Spice to taste. 

Henry. One-half cup of butter, two cups sugar, one 
cup milk, three and a half cups flour, three eggs, one 
teaspoon cream tartar, one-half teaspoon soda, one cup 
chopped walnuts, one cup currants. Flavor with lemon. 

Hartford Election. Two and a half pounds butter, 
three pounds sugar, four and a half pounds flour, three 
pounds raisins, four eggs, one pint yeast, one quart 
milk, mix the butter and sugar as for pound cake; take 
one-half thus beaten and mix with flour, milk and yeast, 
and set it to rise over night. In the morning add the 
other half of sugar and butter, eggs, raisins and spices 
and let it rise again. Put in pans and let stand an hour 
before baking. 

Hermits. One cup butter, one and a half cups sugar, 
one cup raisins, three eggs, teaspoon soda dissolved in 
a little milk, all kinds spice, flour to roll out. 

Hickory-Nut. One cup butter, four cups flour, three 
cups sugar, one cup sweet milk, four eggs, teaspoon 
soda, one pint hickory nut meat, half pint raisins. 



78 CAKE. 

Ice Cream. Two cups coffee A sugar, one scant cup 
butter (melted just enough to make it soft), one cup 
milk, whites of eight eggs, three cups flour, three heap- 
ing teaspoons baking powder; sift your flour, roll your 
sugar; cream the sugar and butter, then add milk; 
then add one-third of eggs and one cup flour, then 
another one-third of eggs and cup flour, then last one- 
third eggs and last cup flour, then add baking powder 
last of all. After the dough is thoroughly mixed, if 
it runs off the spoon add another one-half cup flour. 
Grease your pans well, put two layers of paper in the 
bottom of the pans. Bake in three layers. When 
nearly cold trim all the brown part off, then ice. 
Icing: — Whites of three eggs, well beaten, nearly three 
cups powdered sugar (or one pound), three-fourths 
cup water; mix sugar and water, boil until the syrup 
will collect in the bottom of a cup of cold water; have 
the eggs in a dish and pour the hot syrup upon them 
slowly; stir constantly until nearly cold then add a 
teaspoon of vanilla. If the icing seems too hard add 
a little hot water, and if it sticks to the knife dip the 
knife in hot water. Very nice. 

Imperial. One pound butter, one pound sugar, one 
pound chopped raisins, one-quarter pound citron, one 
pound flour, half pound blanched almonds put in 
whole, eight eggs, mace, and one glass of wine. 

Jelly. Two and one-half cups sugar, one cup butter, 
one cup milk, four cups flour, three eggs, one teaspoon 
cream tartar, half teaspoon soda. 

Jumbles. Three cups butter, three cups sugar, six 
^ggs, one-third cup milk, half teaspoon soda, flour 
to roll easily. Scatter on sugar, cut in fancy shapes. 
This makes many and will keep well. Nice. 



CAKE. 79 

2. Soft. Two cups sugar, one cup butter, three 
eggs, two-thirds cup sour milk, half teaspoon soda, 
four heaping cupfuls flour. Drop them on a tin with 
a spoon some distance apart; if too thin add a little 
more flour. 

Julia. One cup sugar, one-half cup butter, one-half 
cup sweet milk, two eggs, two cups flour, teaspoon 
cream tartar, half teaspoon soda, vanilla. 

Lady. One-half cup butter creamed, add giadually 
one cup sugar, one-half cup milk, one-half cup corn 
starch, one cup flour, one even teaspoon baking powder, 
whites of four eggs. Flavor with almond and a drop of 
lemon. 

Lemon Snaps. One cup butter, two cups sugar, one- 
third cup milk, three eggs, teaspoon soda, two tea- 
spoons lemon. 

Magic. One cup sugar, half cup butter, one and a 
half cups flour, three eggs, three tablespoons milk, 
half teaspoon soda, teaspoon cream tartar. Flavor 
with vanilla or nutmeg. 

Marble. One-half cup butter, one cup sugar, one- 
half cup milk, one and three-fourths cups pastry flour, 
whites of four eggs, one-half teaspoon cream tartar, 
one-fourth teaspoon soda. In another dish mix one- 
half cup molasses, one cup sugar, one-half cup butter, 
two and one-half cups flour, one-fourth cup milk, yolks 
of four eggs, one teaspoon cinnamon, three-fourths 
teaspoon cloves, one teaspoon nutmeg, little mace, one- 
half teaspoon cream tartar, one-fourth teaspoon soda; 
put spices and cream tartar and soda in the flour; put 
a layer of dark mixture into the pan, then one of the 
light and alternate until all is used. Draw a fork 
through the sides and middle of the whole once. 



80 CAKE. 

Marbled Chocolate. One cup butter, two cups pow- 
dered sugar, three cups flour, four eggs, one cup sweet 
Tiilk, half teaspoon soda, one teaspoon cream 
tartar. After this is well mixed take out one and one- 
half cups of it and mix with it enough chocolate 
previously melted in a few drops of hot water to give 
a dark color, then put in pans in separate layers and 
bake half an hour. 

Marshall. Two and a half cups sugar, one cup 
butter, one cup milk, four cups flour, four eggs, tea- 
spoon soda and one of cream tartar; bake in two 
sheets plain; for the third sheet, add two tablespoons 
molasses, one cup raisins, one cup currants, one-quarter 
pound citron, all kinds spices. Wet this sheet with the 
white of an egg and place between the light ones. 

Molasses, i. One cup molasses, two cups sugar, 
one-half cup butter or lard, teaspoon soda, one cup 
boiling water, salt and ginger. To be made soft and 
dropped from the spoon. 

2. One pint molasses, six ounces butter, three well 
beaten eggs, one-half pint milk, one teaspoon soda; 
warm molasses enough to melt butter, dissolve soda in 
milk, mix, add eggs, thicken with flour to the consist- 
ency of pound cake. Flavor with lemon. 

3. Drop. One cup molasses, one cup sugar, one cup 
warm water, teaspoon soda, flour enough to drop from 
a spoon, one tablespoon butter. 

4. Mrs. Clark's. One cup sugar, one-half cup butter, 
two eggs, teaspoon cream tartar, half teaspoon soda, 
two cups flour, half cup milk. 

Mother Hubbard. One and one-half cups sugar, one 
cup butter, two cups flour, five eggs, one-half teaspoon 
baking powder, cream butter and add flour a little at a 



CAKE. 81 

time, cream together; beat eggs and sugar very lightly; 
put baking powder in the flour, one teaspoon vanilla. 
It is nice with a little mace. 

Nice. One and one-half cups butter, one cup sugar, 
half cup milk, two cups flour, three eggs, teaspoon 
cream tartar, half teaspoon soda; beat the whites sep- 
arately and add just before going into the oven. Bake 
thirty minutes. 

Nut. One cup butter, two cups sugar, one cup milk, 
three and one half cups flour, three eggs, one-half tea- 
spoon soda, one teaspoon cream tartar, one pound Eng- 
lish walnuts, one pound stoned raisins. 

2. Cream. Three-fourths cup butter, two cups 
sugar, three and one-fourth cups flour, three even tea- 
spoons baking powder, one cup milk, five eggs; bake 
in jelly cake tins. Make the filling as follows: — 
Whites of two eggs, one and one-half cups powdered 
sugar; put the eggs in a bowl, sprinkle in one tablespoon 
sugar; beat with a wire whisk five minutes, add the 
rest of the sugar gradually, a tablespoon at a time; 
when all is added and it is smooth and creamy, flavor 
and stir in three-fourths cup nuts chopped fine. Spread 
this icing between the layers; sprinkle each layer with 
nuts. Ice the top with plain icing and lay on whole 
or half nuts over all. 

3. Golden. Cream three-fourths cup butter and one 
and one-half cups sugar together, add yolks of eight 
eggs, one whole egg beaten till thick, one-half cup 
milk, two cups of flour sifted with one and one-half 
teaspoons cream tartar, one-half teaspoon soda, two 
teaspoons brandy, one cup chopped nuts slightly 
floured. Bake in individual pans; frost with golden 



82 CAKE. 

frosting made as follows: — One yolk beaten slightly, 
one teaspoon wine; confectioners* sugar to make it 
stiff enough to spread. 

Orange. Cream three-fourths cup butter, add slowly 
two cups sugar, and cream together; into three cups 
sifted pastry flour mix two teaspoons baking powder; 
add one tablespoon of the prepared flour to the butter 
and sugar, then add four eggs, one at a time without 
first beating, with a tablespoon of the flour before 
breaking in each egg; then add the remainder of the 
flour alternating with one cupful of milk. Flavor 
with orange. Bake about forty minutes in a moderate 
oven. Orange Frosting: — Yolk of one egg, extract 
of orange, enough confectioners' sugar to make it 
thick enough to spread. 

Plain Raisin. One-half cup molasses, one cup 
sugar, one half cup butter, one-half cup sour milk, tea- 
spoon soda, two eggs; three cups flour. Raisins and 
spice. 

Piccolomini. Three cups sugar, one cup butter, rub 
to a cream; beat five eggs very light, and stir grad- 
ually into the mixture together with four full cups 
flour and one of sweet milk. Dissolve in a little warm 
water half teaspoon soda, one teaspoon cream tartar, 
add nutmeg and wine glass rose water. 

Pound. Rub one pound sugar and three-quarters 
pound butter to a cream, add the well beaten yolks 
of ten eggs, then the whites, and stir in gradually a 
pound of sifted flour. 

Quick Cream Pie. Beat the whites of two eggs with 
one-half cup sugar, add the beaten yolks, two-thirds 
cup flour, one-half teaspoon cream tartar, one-fourth 
teaspoon soda (or one teaspoon baking powder). 



CAKE. 83 

Bake in a round tin. Inside: — One-half pint milk, 
one eggt one-half cup sugar, one-fourth cup flour; 
cook until thick and flavor as preferred. 

Raised Loaf. One cup sugar (heaping), one-half 
cup butter, one egg, small piece of soda dissolved in a 
teaspoon of warm water, mace, cinnamon and nutmeg, 
two cups raised bread dougfi, one cup stoned raisins. 
Let it rise three hours before baking. 

Rice Flour. One cup butter, one cup sugar, five 
eggs, two cups rice flour. 

Rockland. One cup butter, two cups sugar, one cup 
milk, five eggs, half teaspoon soda, teaspoon cream 
tartar, four cups flour. Makes two loaves. 

Sally Jewett. Three-quarters pound sugar, one- 
half pound butter, one cup molasses, one cup milk, 
five eggs, one pound flour, heaping teaspoon soda, one 
pound raisins, two tablespoons each cloves and cinna- 
mon, one nutmeg, currants, citron, wine glass brandy. 

Silver. Two cups of sugar, two and one-half cups 
flour, one-half cup butter, three-quarters cup milk, 
whites of eight eggs, teaspoon cream tartar, half tea- 
spoon soda. Almond essence and chocolate frosting. 

2. One and one-half cups sugar, one-half cup 
butter, three-fourths cup sweet milk, two cups flour, 
one teaspoon cream tartar, one-half teaspoon soda, 
whites of four eggs, well beaten; flavor with vanilla; 
bake in a slow oven. 

Snow. One pound of sugar, three-quarters pound 
butter, one pound flour, whites of sixteen eggs, lemon 
or rose water. 

Spice. One cup butter, one and a half cups sugar, 
two-thirds cup milk, three eggs, three cups flour. 



84 CAKE. 

one teaspoon each kind of spice, one cup raisins, one 
teaspoon soda, citron and currants if you choose. 
Bake in roll pans. 

Sponge. One cup sugar, one cup flour, four eggs, 
half teaspoon soda sifted in dr>'. 

2. Three cups sugar, six eggs, one cup cold water, 
little salt, four cups flour, teaspoon soda, two tea- 
spoons cream tartar; beat the yolks and stir into sugar 
until smooth, then add the whites beaten light, then 
cold water with soda, then flour with cream tartar, two 
teaspoons lemon put in last. 

3. Four eggs, one cup sugar, one cup flour; beat 
the whites stiff, then the sugar must be well beaten into 
the whites, add next the yolks previously well beaten, 
and just as you are ready to put into the oven, stir the 
flour in. Very nice. 

4. Eight eggs, scant two cups flour, one teaspoon 
mace, beat whites and yolks separately, then together, 
then stir in two cups sugar, and then flour. Bake in 
quick oven. Nice. 

5. Beat eight eggs very light, add one pound sugar, 
twelve ounces flour. Flavor with lemon or almond. 
Drop them on tins with teaspoon, sift sugar over them 
and bake in a quick oven. 

Trifles. One egg beaten thoroughly, one teaspoon 
salt, all the flour that can be kneaded in. Roll as thin 
as paper. Fry in hot lard. 

Walnut. One cup butter, two cups sugar, three and 
a half cups flour, two-thirds cup milk, three eggs, one 
cup chopped raisins, one cup walnuts, half teaspoon 
soda. 

Washington. One pound brown sugar, one-half 
pound butter, four eggs (well beaten), one cup milk 



CAKE. 85 

(medium size cup), one pound flour sifted twice, one 
pound fruit mixed with flour, currants, raisins and 
citron, one wine glass wine, one nutmeg, teaspoon cin- 
namon, two tablespoons baking powder. Makes one 
large cake. 

White. Whites of eight eggs, two cups sugar, one- 
half cup butter, three-quarters cup milk, three cups 
flour, one teaspoon cream tartar, half teaspoon soda. 
Bake in layers, spread each with icing and grated 
cocoanut, and when put together cover the whole with 
the icing and cocoanut. 

2, One cup butter, two cups sugar, three and one- 
half cups flour, whites of five eggs, one cup milk, tea- 
spoon cream tartar, half teaspoon soda. Flavor with 
almond. 

White Mountain. One cup butter, two cups sugar, 
four eggs, three and a half cups flour, two-thirds cup 
milk, teaspoon cream tartar, half teaspoon soda, tea- 
spoon extract of lemon. Bake in four thin sheets and 
when done put a layer of frosting between each sheet. 

Boiled Icing. One cup granulated sugar, one-third 
cup boiling water, white of one egg, one salt- 
spoon cream tartar; boil the sugar and water without 
stirring, until the syrup taken up on skewer will 
*' thread " or " rope; " when it is nearly at that point, 
beat the egg stiff, add the cream tartar, and pour the 
boiling syrup over the egg in a fine stream, beating 
well, when it thickens and is perfectly smooth. 

Caramel Frosting, i. One cup sugar, one-half cup 
milk; flavor to taste; boil hard just six minutes. 

2. Chocolate. Add one square of chocolate to the 
caramel frosting and boil a little longer. Flavor with 
vanilla. 



.^6 CAKE. 

% 

fl 

Chocolate Frosting, i. One cup milk, 'two cups 
sugar, one strip chocolate; mix and boil together 
eight minutes; then beat till thick enough to spread. 

2. Beat the whites of two eggs to a stiff froth, add 
one and a one-half cups sugar, four tablespoons of 
<:hocolate. 

Cocoanut Frosting. Beat the whites of five eggs to 
a stiff froth, add two cups of prepared cocoanut, and 
powdered sugar enough to make it sufficiently stiff to 
spread with a knife. Flavor with extract lemon, 
vanilla or almond. After spreading the frosting upon 
the cake, sprinkle a little dry cocoanut over it. 



).! : 



PICKLES. 



" Peter Piper picked a peek of pickled peppers." 

Bordeaux Sauce. Two gallons cabbage cut coarse, 
one gallon cut green tomatoes, one-half dozen onions 
sliced, two heads of cauliflower, broken in pieces, two 
heads celery, cut fine, eight green peppers cut in small 
pieces, one ounce whole allspice, one ounce whole 
black pepper, one-half ounce whole cloves, four table- 
spoons ground mustard, one pound sugar, one and one- 
half gills of salt, vinegar to not quite cover the whole. 
Mix, and boil slowly two hours. 

Chili Sauce. Forty-eight ripe tomatoes, ten pep- 
pers, two large onions, two quarts vinegar, four table- 
spoons salt, two teaspoons each cloves, cinnamon, nut- 
meg and allspice, one cup sugar. Slice the tomatoes, 
chop peppers and onions together, add vinegar and 
spices, and boil until thick enough. Mustard and 
curry powder improves this. 

2. Twelve ripe tomatoes, four green peppers, one 
large onion, one cup strong vinegar, tablespoon salt, 
three of sugar, one teaspoon each of all kinds spice. 
Cook till soft. 

Chow-Chow. Two gallons green tomatoes, two 
white onions, one-half dozen green peppers, one dozen 
cucumbers, two heads cabbage, ^all chopped fine; let 
this stand over night with a teacup of salt sprinkled 
over it; in thie morning drain off the brine, and season 
with one tablespoon of celery seed, one ounce 
turmeric, one-half teaspoon cayenne pepper, one cup 



90 PICKLES. 

brown sugar, one ounce cinnamon, one ounce allspice, 
one ounce black pepper, one-fourth ounce cloves, 
vinegar enough to cover. Boil one-half hour. 

Cauliflower. Six heads cauliflowers, two and one- 
half quarts vinegar, two and one-half cups brown 
sugar, three eggs, one-half bottle French mustard, one 
tablespoon ginger, few garlics, about four, one green 
pepper, one-fourth teaspoon cayenne pepper, butter 
size of half an egg, one-half ounce turmeric; beat 
well together the egg, sugar, mustard, ginger and tur- 
meric, then boil all the ingredients in the vinegar ten 
minutes; boil cauliflower in salt water until tender; 
then place cauliflower in jar and pour vinegar hot over 
it. Cut the cauliflower in pieces of convenient size. 

Cucumber. Sprinkle small cucumbers with salt, 
then pour vinegar over them and let them soak twenty- 
four hours; scald in hot vinegar and put in jars when 
cold. If you wish put various spices, done up in a little 
bag in the vinegar. 

Pure Grape. Four quarts grapes, four pounds sugar, 
one-half pint vinegar, one tablespoon ground cloves; 
squeeze the pulp from the skins, put the pulp in a 
kettle with water enough to keep from scorching, and 
boil until you can easily separate the seeds by rubbing 
through a coarse sieve; then put skins, pulp and juice 
together and boil fifteen minutes. 

Hodge Podge. Two quarts chopped green tomatoes, 
two of onions, two green peppers, mix together; to 
the six quarts add one pint brown mustard seed, one 
cup salt; after standing three or four days, add good 
cider vinegar sufficient to cover it. Keep in dry place. 

Mustard. Two quarts onions, two quarts pickled 
cucumbers, two quarts green. tomatoes, two quarts, red 



PICKLES. 91 

and green peppers, two heads of cauliflower, two or 
three heads of celery, chop and let stand in brine oyer 
night, then drain and scald in vinegar with apiece of 
alum size of a filbert; have only vinegar enough to 
cover the pickle. Cook until tender, draw off the 
vinegar. Dressing: — One-fourth pound ground mus- 
tard, one-half ounce turmeric, one-half ounce celery 
seed, two cups sugar, one cup flour; stir into one gallon 
of boiling vinegar, let stand over the fire about three 
minutes, stirring constantly. Pour over the pickle 
while hot and bottle when cold. 

Ohio Catsup. Take three dozen ripe cucumbers, 
eight white onions, peel them and chop as fine as possi- 
ble; sprinkle over them one-half cup salt; put the 
whole into a sieve ard let them drain eight hours; 
take one cup of mustard seed, one-half cup of pepper 
and mix together; put in a jar and cover with strong 
vinegar. Close tight, and let it stand three or four 
days, when it will be ready for use. 

Pickle for Beef. Four gallons of water, five pounds 
salt, one and one-half ounces of saltpetre, two large 
spoons soda, two teacups molasses. Boil and skim, 
pour over beef when cold. 

Pickle for Butter. Two quarts of salt, one quart 
sugar, one tablespoon saltpetre, two to four quarts of 
boiling water. 

Pickle for Hams. One quart of salt, one pint mo- 
lasses, one pound sugar, two ounces saltpetre. Hams 
may be kept in this pickle three or four weeks before 
smoking. 

Pickle for Pork. Two quarts of salt, three pints 
molasses; four ounces saltpetre, two ounces cloves, ten 
quarts water. 



92 PICKLES. 

Pickled Eggs. Boil* one dozen of fresh eggs fifteen 
minutes, put them in cold water to cpol, take off the 
shells and place them m a jar, cover them with good 
vinegar. These are nice for picnics. 

Pickled Lemons. One dozen lemons, one-half cup 
salt, one onion cut fine, one nutmeg grated, one table- 
spoon allspice, one-half tablespoon ground cloves, 
one-half tablespoon ginger, one-half teaspoon cayenne 
pepper, one teacup white mustard seed, three teaspoons 
brown sugar. Score the lemons, put them into stone 
jars, alternating with the ingredients. Cover the whole 
with cider vinegar, put the jars into kettles of boiling 
water; boil four hours, then stop tightly, let them 
stand three months before using. 

Pickled Oysters. Simmer the oysters in their own 
liquor; take out the oysters and into the liquor put 
pepper and salt, cloves and nutmeg to taste, boil up 
once and pour over the oysters. Cooked early in the 
morning, ready for dinner. Keep two or three days. 

Pickled Peaches, i. Seven pounds of peeled peaches^ 
three and a half pounds sugar, one pint vinegar, cloves 
or root ginger for spice; boil and add fruit until 
scalded, then put in jars and pour the scalding liquor 
on and cover tightly. 

2. To every quart of vinegar add one pound sugar; 
scald and pour hot over the peaches for six successive 
mornings. 

Pickled Tongue. Take a corned beef tongue and 
boil until tender, take off the skin, put it into a stone 
basin or jar and cover it with good cider vinegar, add 
a few allspice, whole peppers and cloves, not more 
than one dozen of each. 



PICKLES. 93 

Sweet Ripe Cucumber. Pare and slice ripe cucum- 
bers and let them stand over night in very salt water. 
Take one gallon vinegar, one pound of brown sugar 
and spice for a syrup; use whole spice and let them 
remain; when the syrup is boiling put in the cucum- 
bers, boil till done. This looks and tastes very nice. 

Sweet Ripe Tomato. Seven pounds ripe tomatoes, 
three and one-half pounds sugar, one quart vinegar; 
spices — cloves, allspice and cinnamon; put the sugar 
and vinegar over the fire till melted; peel the tomatoes 
and put them in syrup, bags ot cloves, allspice and cin- 
namon, each bag to be one and one-half inches square; 
when tomatoes are boiled skim them out and boil the 
syrup till quite thick. (Very nice). 

Spiced Currants. Five pounds currants, four pounds 
brown sugar, one pint vinegar, two tablespoons cloves, 
two of cinnamon. Boil slowly two hours. 

Sweet Piccalilli. Take tomatoes just turning, wash, 
and without paring, slice thick, put into a crock with 
salt, sprinkled between the layers and let stand over 
night. In the morning drain, and make a rich syrup 
of vinegar, sugar and spice, cinnamon, little mace and 
cloves; put a few of the tomatoes into the syrup and 
let them simmer slowly, take out before they are 
cooked to pieces and put into a crock, continue in this 
way until all are used. If the syrup gets too thin 
make fresh, pour over the tomatoes and cover tight. 

Sweet Pickled Pears. One quart vinegar, three 
pounds brown sugar to six pounds pears; after the 
pears are peeled put them into cold water, and let 
them stand awhile, then steam until done; then stick 
three cloves in each pear. Boil syrup and drop the 
pears in. 



94 PICKLES. 

Sweet Tomato. One peck green tomatoes, sprinkle 
on a little salt and let them stand over night, then 
strain off the water, put them in a kettle with enough 
vinegar to cover them, add half pound or quarter 
pound sugar, two cups white mustard seed, one-half 
cloves, one cup allspice and a little mace put in a bag. 
Six green peppers, six onions, cook three hours over a 
slow fire. 

2. Seven pounds tomatoes, three pounds sugar, one 
quart vinegar, one ounce each cloves and cinnamon; 
boil three hours. Never ferments. 

3- To one-half bushel green tomatoes (sliced), 
add one dozen large onions (sliced); scatter over the 
mixture one pound salt, and let it stand all night; in 
the morning drain off the brine; in four quarts water 
and two quarts of vinegar, cook tomatoes and onions 
together fifteen minutes; drain them again (this takes 
away the strong, rank flavor). Now to five quarts 
vinegar add four pounds brown sugar, four even table- 
spoons ground allspice and the same quantity of 
cloves, cinnamon, ginger and mustard, and one dessert- 
spoon cayenne pepper; scald this mixture, and add 
the tomatoes, &c., letting all cook together ten or fif- 
teen minutes just before removing from the fire. Stir 
in half pound whole white mustard seed. Very nice. 

Tomato. Cut one peck green tomatoes in slices, and 
put in a stone jar, cover with one pint molasses; skim 
when it ferments, and your pickles are ready for use. 

Tomato Ketchup. Take one bushel ripe tomatoes 
and five onions, boil until soft, squeeze through hair 
sieve, add one-half pint salt, one-quarter pound all- 
spice, two ounces cloves, two ounces cayenne pepper, 
two tablespoons black pepper, two quarts vinegar; 
mix and boil three hours. This will fill twelve bottles. 



JELLIES. 



'• We must take the current when it serves, 
Or lose our ventures." 

The surest way to clear jelly is to let the juice drain 
through a flannel bag without squeezing it. 

The best and easiest way to cover jellies is to pour 
melted paraffine over them when they are quite cold. 
This hardens at once, when a piece of brown paper 
may be tied over the glass to keep out the dust. The 
cake of paraffine may be easily lifted off when the 
jelly is used, and if washed and put away can be 
melted and used another year. . Paraffine is a clear 
white wax which is absolutely tasteless. 

In making crabapple jelly put in the juice of one or 
more lemons according to the quantity so there will 
be an acid flavor, but not enough to taste of the lemon. 

Apple. I. Pare and cut into slices eighteen large 
acid apples, boil them in as much water as will cover 
them, when quite soft dip a coarse cloth into hot 
water, wring dry, and strain the apples through it. To 
one pint juice allow fourteen ounces sugar, add the 
peel of one lemon. Boil twenty minutes, take out the 
peel and put in jars. 

2. One-half peck good tart apples, three pints 
water, boil until done enough to run a straw through 
them, then drain through a sieve; three-quarters pound 
sugar to one pint of juice. Boil twenty minutes. 



96 JELLIES. 

Cider. One-half box gelatine with cold water suffi- 
cient to cover it, let it stand one hour, then add the 
grated rind and juice of one lemon, one-half pint or 
little more sugar,, two-thirds pint of cider, pint and 
one-half boiling water, then strain into moulds. 

Catawba Grape* Take fresh grapes, wash and pick 
from stems; put into porcelain kettle with enough 
water to keep from burning. Cook until seeds are 
clear. Drain through a jelly bag. To each pint of 
juice add one pint sugar. Boil till it strings. 

Currant. Put the currants in a large preserving 
kettle without stemming them, and let them heat 
slowly; cook gently with frequent stirring, until fruit 
is well broken^ will take perhaps three hours; squeeze 
them through a flannel bag; allow pound sugar to 
each pint of juice; return juice to the fire and boil 
twenty minutes, skimming frequently; then put in the 
sugar slowly, previously heated in the oven, so it will 
not stop the jelly from boiling; 4et the jelly come to 
a good boil, take it up and pour into glasses. 

Orange. Dissolve one-half cup gelatine in one cup 
cold water; after standing one-half hour add a cup 
boiling water; drain this into the juice of twelve 
oranges, juice and grated rind of two lemons; sweeten 
with about two cups sugar. Strain. 

Wine. I. One box gelatine, one and one-half pints 
cold water, one-half pint good Sherry or Madeira 
wine, the peel of three lemons and their juice, nearly 
one pint white sugar, the beaten whites of three eggs, 
and the shells crushed;; p'Ut it on the stove and stir 
very often, lest the gelatine should scorch; let it boil 
about five or ten minutes, then take scum and put it in 
your strainer to serve as a filterer. Pour in the jelly, 



JELLIES. 97 

and as fast as it runs out, pour back again until it is as 
clear as you wish. 

2. One pint boiling water poured on one-third box 
gelatine, one cup sugar, one cup wine, one lemon, 
strain through muslin. 

To Can Pineapples. Use quarter pound sugar to a 
pound of the cut pineapple; cut the pineapple in little 
squares or diamonds, put the sugar over it and let it 
stand over night; then pour off the juiee, boil it till it 
thickens a little, pour over the fruit and boil it till the 
pineapple is tender. 

Sweet Apple Preserve. Twelve pounds sweet ap- 
ples, quartered and cored, six pounds sugar, one quart 
good vinegar. Dissolve sugar and vinegar, and cook 
apples in the syrup till done. 



BEVERAGES. 



** At one's cups." 

Chocolate. One-eighth of a pound Baker's cooking 
chocolate dissolved in hot water, cook until it thickens; 
add one-third cup sugar, one quart boiling milk, let it 
boil slowly for five minutes, beating it as a scum will 
form; this is enough for a company of eight people at 
an afternoon tea. 

Cream Soda. Three pounds white sugar, two ounces 
tartaric acid, three pints water, juice of one lemon. 
Boil five minutes, when nearly cold add the beaten 
whites three eggs, half cup flour mixed with the eggs, 
and half an ounce of checkerberry. 

Currant Shrub. Put the currants in a porcelain 
kettle to heat, in order to extract the juice; to each 
pint juice add three-quarters pound white sugar; cook 
long enough to dissolve the sugar thoroughly; bottle 
and seal tight. This is a delicious drink when used 
with equal quantity of ice water. 

Iced Tea. Early in the morning pour cold water on 
the tea, and let it stand all day; put in ice when ready 
to serve. 

Lemonade for Picnics. Take a glass can of lemon 
juice and sugar, remembering that the juice of half a 
large lemon and three teaspoons sugar make a perfect 
glass of lemonade. 



BEVERAGES. 99 

2. Lemonade. A pleasant and healthy drink is made 
by putting the juice of one lemon in a glass of water, 
without sugar. This is good for billiousness. 

3. Pineapple. Boil one cup sugar in one pint water 
ten minutes, cool slightly, and add one can grated 
pineapple and juice of three lemons; cool just before 
serving, add one quart ice water. 

Mead. i. Three pounds white sugar, five gills molasses, 
three pints water, four ounces tartaric acid, one-half 
ounce sassafras, same of checkerberry; boil and bottle. 

2. Two pounds and one-half white sugar, two 

ounces tartaric acid, whites three eggs beaten to a 

froth, two quarts boiling water poured on the mixture; 

flavor with sassafras or lemon; cool and bottle. Three 

or four tablespoons to a tumbler filled two-thirds with 
water, stir in quarter teaspoon of soda. Drink quick. 

Pop Beer. One pound sugar, one ounce cream 
tartar, ounce ginger, juice of two lemons, four quarts 
boiling water. When cold add a compressed yeast 
cake dissolved in a little water. Let it stand twenty- 
four hours and bottle. 

Raspberry Vinegar. To ten quarts berries put one 
and one-half pints good vinegar, let them stand two 
nights; to each quart of juice, put one pound white 
sugar. Boil over a slow fire fifteen minutes, skim 
thoroughly and when cool bottle it. 

Russian Tea. i. When the water boils put in the 
tea, place the lid upon the teapot and put on the table 
to draw for a few moments, then pour into the silver 
teapot, leaving out the leaves. 

2. Many like tea served with a thin slice of lemon 
in each cup, in the Russian fashion, instead of cream 
and sugar. 



CANDIES. 



'* Sweets to the sweet." 



Almond Cakes. Whites five eggs, stir in sugar 
enough to make it stiff, with just a little pinch of flour, 
half pound almonds scalded and pounded. Drop on 
buttered tins and bake in a quick oven. 

Butter Scotch, i. Two cups sugar, two tablespoons 
of water, butter the size of an egg. Bofi without stir- 
ring until it hardens when dropped into water. 

2. 'One tablespoon butter, two tablespoons sugar, 
two tablespoons water, three tablespoons molasses, 
one teaspoon vanilla; just before it is cooked enough, 
one-fourth teaspoon of soda. Pour in a shallow tin 
and crease in squares. 

Chocolate Caramels, i. One cup sugar, one cup 
molasses, one gill cream, piece butter size of an egg^ 
quarter pound chocolate, cook until it ropes, pour on 
buttered tins and cut in squares just before it is cold. 

2. One cup sugar, one-third cup milk, one square 
chocolate, one-half tablespoon butter; boil hard seven 
minutes; flavor with vanilla, turn into a shallow pan, 
a^nd when hard enough cut into squares. Do not stir 
while boiling. 

3. One-fourth pound chocolate, three cups brown 
sugar, one cup milk, piece butter the size of an agg; 
flavor with vanilla. Boil one-half hour. 



CANDIES. lOI 

4. Creamed Chocolate. Three cups sugar, one-half 
cake grated chocolate (Baker's), one cup milk, one- 
fourth cup butter, one teaspooon vanilla; boil just ten 
minutes; take off in a dish and beat until it sugars. 
Pour in pan, cool and then cut in squares. 

Checkerberry Drops. One pint sugar, five table- 
spoons water, boil four minutes; two tablespoons 
sugar, half teaspoon cream tartar, fifteen drops oil of 
checkerberry stirred into mixture after boiling. Drop 
on tin or paper. 

Chocolate Creams. The white of one egg, an equal 
quantity of water; flavor with vanilla; beat the egg to 
a froth, add water and vanilla, then stir in as much 
contectioners' sugar as will hold, roll into balls and 
drop into chocolate steamed over the tea-kettle. 

Chocolate Drops. Two cups sugar, one-half cup 
water; boil three minutes, take from the fire and cool 
in a pan of water, stirring constantly till cold enough 
to roll into small balls; place them on buttered tins; 
take one-half bar chocolate, not sweetened, and break 
into small pieces and place in a plate over the tea- 
kettle; when this is melted, take the balls on a straw 
and roll in this chocolate. Flavor the cream and 
chocolate with vanilla. 

Cocoanut. One-half pound sugar, two tablespoons 
water, one-half pound grated cocoanut; stir until 
boiled to a flake. Put in buttered tins and cut in 
squares when cold. 

Cocoanut Drops. One cup prepared cocoanut, white 
of one egg beaten to a froth, one-half cup sugar, one 
spoonful flour; mix, then drop on buttered tins and 
bake five minutes in a quick oven. Flavor to taste. 



102 CANDIES. 

Cream. One pint sugar, one-half pint water, one 
tablespoon vinegar; boil hard twenty minutes, but do 
not stir. Work in vanilla as you pull it. 

Cream Walnuts. Into the white of an egg stir 
-enough powdered sugar to roll into balls; flavor to 
suit the taste. Dip halves of English walnuts into a 
syrup made by boiling two tablespoons sugar and one 
tablespoon water three or four minutes; then place 
one-half walnut on either side of each ball and press 
together. Dates may be used in the same way. 

Ice Cream. Two cups granulated sugar, scant cup 
water; as soon as this boils add one-fourth teaspoon 
cream tartar dissolved in watei ; then boil without stir- 
ring until brittle when dropped in water; add butter 
the size of a walnut just before taking from the stove; 
pour into a buttered dish to cool and pull as hot as 
possible until white. Flavor while pulling with lemon 
and vanilla. 

Kisses. Whites four eggs, two cups sugar. Flavor 
as you please, drop on a tin covered with paper, and 
bake in a moderate oven. 

Molasses. One pint molasses, one pound white 
sugar, large tablespoon vinegar, half coffee cup cold 
water, piece butter large as a walnut. Boil all to- 
gether in a spider without stirring twenty miiflites. 

Orange Drops. Juice and grated rind of one orange, 
little lemon juice; stir in confectioners' sugar till stiff 
enough to roll out into balls. No cooking. 

Peppermints. One cup sugar, one-half cup water, 
boil, stirring often, twenty minutes. Take from the 
stove and add half teaspoon cream tartar and pepper- 
mint to taste. 



CANDIES. 103 

Taffy. I. Six cups white sugar, one cup vinegar, 
one cup water; boil without stirring one-half hour; 
when done stir in one tablespoon soda dissolved in hot 
water. Flavor with vanilla and pull. 

2. One-half pound brown sugar, three ounces 
butter, one and one-half cups cold water. Boil all to- 
gether with the rind of one lemon, adding juice when 
done. 

Stuffed Dates. One pound dates stoned, and filled 
with one-half pound peanuts salted, baked and then 
chopped up fine. After the dates are filled roll in 
granulated sugar. 



CHAFING-DISH COOKING. 



" To be good, be useful. To be useful, always be making sometbing good." 

Cheese Fondu. Put tablespoon butter in the chafing- 
dish; when melted, add cup fresh milk, cup of fine 
bread crumbs, two cups grated cheese, saltspoon of 
dry mustard, little cayenne. Stir constantly and add, 
just before serving, two eggs, beaten light. 

Curried Fish. Cook one tablespoon of onion, cut 
very fine, in one tablespoon butter five minutes; be 
careful not to burn; mix one tablespoon curry powder 
with one tablespoon flour, and stir into the melted 
butter; add gradually one-half pint milk or cream, 
stirring constantly; then add a large cupful any kind 
of cold boiled fish; let it simmer a few minutes and 
serve very hot. 

Lobster, Chop or shred the meat of a cold, boiled 
lobster, tail and claws; pour over it the juice of two 
lemons, add one-half teaspoon cayenne and a tea- 
spoon salt; put in the chafing-dish three tablespoons 
fresh butter; when melted add the lobster. Let it 
simmer for about ten minutes stirring constantly. 

Lobster a la Newburg. Take the nicest part of two 
small lobsters, cut into small pieces like dice, put into 
the chafing-dish with a tablespoon butter; season well 
with pepper and salt, pour over it a gill of wine; cook 
ten minutes; add the beaten yolks three eggs and half 
pint cream. Let all come to a boil and serve 
immediately. 



CHAFING-DISH. 10$ 

Luncheon Sardines. Select firm, medium-sized sar- 
dines, remove skin carefully, put hot water dish on 
chafing-dish frame and pour into it pint of hot water; 
now put cutlet dish on top and into it put one tea- 
spoon butter, one teaspoon lunch paste, one-half wine 
glass of wine and very little white pepper. In this 
warm up the sardines putting each one on toast and 
serve at once. 

Oysters, Maitre d'Hotel. Dry dozen oysters in a 
napkin; put tablespoon butter in the chafing-dish, and 
when very hot place the oysters in single layers; when 
brown on one side turn them upon the other, and 
brown also; season with pepper and salt. Put out the 
lights, squeeze the juice of half a lemon over the 
oysters, strew over them very little chopped parsley 
and serve with or without toast. 

. Relish for Raw Oysters. Two tablespoons finely 
chopped white onion, one teaspoon English " made " 
mustard, one dozen drops of Tabasco sauce, one- 
half teaspoon salt, one tablespoon horse radish, one 
saltspoon white pepper, one gill strong white viregar; 
mix, let stand a few minutes and put very little on 
each oyster. 

Welsh Rarebit. Put a tablespoon butter in the 
chafing-dish; when nearly melted, add pound and one- 
half fresh cheese, cut small as dice, teaspoon dry mus- 
tard, little cayenne, stir all the time, add small amount 
of beer to prevent burning. Keep adding beer, about 
half pint in all. Serve hot on toast. 



DISHES FOR INVALIDS, 



Beef Tea. Fill glass can with lean beef cut in small 
pieces; cover closely and set in kettle of cold water, 
let this come to a boil, and boil till the juice is all 
extracted. 

Infant's Beef Tea. Three ounces each beef . and 
veal; boil six hours in water having a quart when it is 
done, add salt and skim when cold. Take equal parts 
of milk, water and broth, boil a minute and sweeten if 
desired. 

Chicken Tea. Remove skin and fat from a chicken, 
cut in small pieces; boil in one quart water, with a 
little salt, for twenty minutes. Pour off the tea before 
the meat is quite cold. 

Baked Milk. Bake two quarts milk eight or ten 
hours in a moderate oven in a jar covered with writing 
paper tied down. It will be thick like cream. Good 
for weak persons. 

Eau Sucre. Dissolve three or four lumps loaf sugar 
in a glass of ice water, and take teaspoon every four 
minutes for a ** tickling in the throat," or hacking cough. 

Lemon Moss. Put a few sprigs of moss, which has 
been well washed, to soak in water enough to make the 
drink the thickness of cream. After standing a short 
time, add lemon juice and loaf sugar. 

Toast Water. Slices of toast, nicely browned, with- 
out a symptom of burning; enough boiling water to 
cover them; cover closely and let them steep till cold; 
strain the water, sweeten to taste, and cool with ice, 
A bit of lemon juice can be added. 



ik:idk:x. 



BREAD. 



Bangor Corn Cake, 
Bannock, . 
Batter, 

Blueberry Cake, 
Breakfast, 
Breakfast Puffs, 
Brown Bread, 
Buckwheat Cakes, . 
Buns, , 

Buns, 

California Biscuit, 
Cheese Sandwiches, . 
Corn Cake, . 
Corn Cake, 
Corn Bread, 

Egg Pop-Overs, 

Flannel Cakes, 
French Toast, . 
Fried Biscuits, 

Graham Bread, 
Graham Rolls, 

Huckleberry Biscuit, 

Indian Breakfast Cake, 
Indian Cake, . 
Indian Drop Cake, 

Muffins, 

Muffins, English, 
Muffins, Graham, 



3 
3 
3 
3 
4 
4 
4 
4 
5 

5 

5 

5 
6 

6 

6 

6 

7 
7 

7 
7 

7 

7 

7 
8 

8 
8 
8 



Muffins, Indian Meal, . 8 

Muffins, Raised, . . 9 

Muffins, Rye, ... 9 

Muffins, White, . . 9 

Pancakes, .... 9 

Parker House Rolls, . 9 

Potato Biscuit, ... 9 

Potato Cakes, . . . 10 
Potato Rolls, . . .10 

Quaker Biscuits, . . 10 

Rice Crumpets, . . 10 

Rusks, ... I 

Raised Rye Bread, . . i 

Raised Rye Biscuit, . . i 

Rye Rolls, . . . . i 

Squash Biscuit, . . i 

Squash Fritters, . . . i 

Squash Gems, ... i 

Squash Griddle Cakes, . 1 2 

Steamed Whole Wheat Loaf, 12 

Tea Rolls, . . . 12 

Waffles, . • . . . 12 

Waffles, German, . . 12 
Wheat Gems, . . .12 

White Corn Cake, . . 6 

Yeast, 13 



Black Bean, 

Beef, 
Bouillon, 

Celery, 
Corn, 

Lobster, . 



SOUPS. 

16 Mock Oyster, . . • . 17 
16 Noodle, . . . .17 

16 Pea, 18 

Potato, 18 

17 Stock, . . . . 16 
17 Tomato, .... 18 



io8 



INDEX. 



Baked Cod, 
Baked Fish, 
Baked Lobster, 
Baked Shad Roe, 

Devilled Crabs, 

Kscaloped Oysters, 

Fillets of Halibut, 
Fish Balls, . 
Fish Croquettes, 



FISH. 

Lobster Croquettes, 

Oyster and Clam Fritters, 
Oysters, Broiled, 
Oysters, Roast, 
Oysters, Scalloped, . 

Potted Shad, 

Salmon Croquettes, 
Tomato Sauce, 



21 
21 
21 

22 

22 
22 

22 

22 

23 



23 

23 
23 
23 
24 

24 

24 
22 



MEATS. 



Camelons, 
Croquettes, 

Devilled Ham, 

How to choose Meats, 

Meat Pie, 

Meat and Potted Pie, 

Minced Veal, 



29 

27 
28 

27 

28 
28 

29 



Potted Beef, ... 27 

Roast Lamb and Mint Sauce, 28 

Sausages, .... 28 

Suet, to Chop ... 29 

Timbales, .... 29 

Veal Cutlets, ... 29 

Veal Loaf, .... 29 



Chicken Pie, 
Chicken Croquettes, 
Chicken in Jelly, 

Maryland Chicken, . 



FOWL. 



30 
31 
30 

31 



Pressed Chicken, 
Potted Pigeons, 

Roast Duck, 

Turkey. 



3' 

32 

31 

32 



EGGS. 



A la Cream, 


. 36 


Egg Vermicelli, 


35 


Baked Eggs, 


36 


Omelette, .... 


35 


Dropped Eggs, 


• 36 


Shirred Eggs, . 


36 




SALADS. 




Cabbage, . . . . 
Chicken or Lobster, 

Dressing for Cabbage, 
Dressing for Salad, 
Dressing for Lobster Salad, 


38 
38 

39 
39 
39 


Mustard Dressing, 

Salad Dressing, 
Salad Dressing, . 
Salad Dressing, Bangor, . 
Salad Dressing Cream, 


41 

39 
40 

40 

40 


Egg Salad, 


38 


Welsh Rarebit, 


41 


Leontine's Dressing, 


39 







INDEX. 



109 



PIES. 



Apple Custard, 

Bambury Tart, 

Chess, 

Cocoanut, 

Cream, 

Cream Raspberry, 

Lemon, 

Marlborough, 



Almond Rice, 

Apple, 

Apple Charlotte, 

Apple Cream, . 

Apple Meringue, 

Caramel Custard, 
Carrot, 

Charlotte Russe, 
Chocolate, . 
Coburg, 
Cocoanut, 
College, . 
Columbia, 
Cottage, . 
Cracker, 

English Plum, . 
Fig, . 



Sauce, 

Foaming Sauce, 
For Whipped Cream, 

Hard Sauce, 



Arrowroot Ice, 

Bisque Glace^ . 

Cafe Parfait, 
Caramel, 

Chocolate Cream^ 
Coffee Cream, . 



47 

47 

44 
44 
44 
47 

45 

45 



Mince Meat, 
Mock Mince, 
Modern Rhubarb, 

Orange, 

Pie Crust, 

Pie Crust Glaze, , 

Rhubarb, 

Saratoga, 
Squash, 



PUDDINGS. 



53 
48 

48 
48 
53 

54 
52 
48 

49 
54 
50 
49 
49 
49 
49 

50 
53 



Fruit, 
Fruit Salad, 

Indian, 

Lemon Jelly, 

Mountain Dew, 

Orange Cream, 

Pineapple, 
Prune Whip, 

Queen of Puddings, 

Rye, 

Scarboro Puffs, 
Snow Balls, 
Sponge, . . , 
Strawberry Trifle, 

Tapioca Cream, 
Tipsy Trifle, 



SAUCES. 



58 

59 
59 

58 



Mollie's Pudding, 
Plain Pudding, 
Raspberry Foam, 
Wine, 



FROZEN DISHES. 

60 Delicious Ice Cream, 
Frozen Pudding, 



60 

60 
60 
61 
61 



Fruit Ice Cream, 

Ice Cream, 

Ice Cre^m, . 

Ice Cream, Strawberry, 



46 
46 
47 
46 

44 
44 

47 

47 
46 



55 
55 

50 

54 

51 

52 

52 
53 

51 

51 

51 
53 
51 
55 
52 
54 



58 
58 
59 
59 



61 

61 
62 

61 
62 
62 



no 



INDEX. 



Lemon Ice, 
Lemon Sherbets, 

Orange Water Ice, 



Almond, 
Almond Silver, 
Almond or White, 
Angel, 

Blueberry, . 
Boiled Icing, . 
Boston Ginger Bread, 
Boston Puffs, . 

Bread, 
Bride's, . 
Bridge water. 

Caramel, 

Caramel Frosting, 

Chocolate, 

Chocolate Cocoanut, 

Chocolate Frosting, 

Citron, 

Clove, 

Cocoanut, 

Cocoanut, 

Cocoanut, One, Two, Three 

Four, . . 
Cocoanut Cream, 
Cocoanut Frosting, . 
Cold Water, 
Composition, . 
Cookies, 

Cookies, Cocoanut, . 
Cookies, Molasses, 
Cookies, Rice Flour, 
Cookies, Soft Molasses 
Cookies, Sugar, 
Corn Starch, 
Cream, 
Cream Cakes, 
Crullers, 
Crumpets, 
Currant, . 

Dayton, 

Delicate, 

Delicious, 

Delicious, 

Doughnuts, 

Doughnuts, Aunt Caroline's, 



63 Velvet Cream, 

"3 Walnut Bisque, 
63 Water Ice, 

CAKE. 



65 

65 
66 

66 

66 

85 
66 

66 

66 

67 
67 

67 
85 
67 
68 

86 
68 
68 
68 
69 

69 
69 
86 
69 
69 
70 
70 
70 

71 
70 

71 
71 
71 

71 

72 

72 
72 

72 
72 
72 

73 
73 
73 



Doughnuts, Aunt Grant's, 

English Walnut, 

Feather, 

Fig, .... 

Filling for a Layer Cake, 

French, 

French Loaf, . 

Fruit, 

German, 

Gingerbread, Sugar, . 
Gingerbread, Hard Sugar, 
Gingerbread, Maggie's, . 
Gingerbread, Molasses, 
Gingerbread, Simplest and 
Ginger, . . . , 
Ginger Puffs, 
Ginger Snaps, 
Gold, .... 
Golden,. . . . . 
Graham, 

Harrison, 
Hartford Election, 
Henry, . . . . 
Hermits, 
Hickory-Nut, . 

Ice Cream, . 
Imperial, 

Jelly, .... 
Jumbles, . . . . 
Jumbles, Soft, 
Julia, . . , . 

Lady, .... 
Lemon Snaps, 

Magic, 

Marble, .... 
Marbled Chocolate, 
Marshall, .... 
Molasses, 
Molasses Drop, 
Molasses Drop, 
Molasses, Mrs. Clark's, • 
Mother Hubbard, 



63 
64 
64 



73 

• 73 

73 

• 74 
74 

. 74 
74 

• 74 

75 

. 75 

75 

75 

• 75 
Best, 76 

76 
. 76 

76 
. 76 

77 

• 77 

77 
' 77 

77 
' 77 

77 

^ 78 
78 

. 78 
7S 

• 79 
79 

• 79 
79 

• 79 

79 
. 80 

80 

. 80 

73 
. 80 

80 

. 80 



INDEX. 



Ill 



Nice, . 
Nut, 

Nut, Cream, 
Nut, Golden, 

Orange, 

Plain Raisin, 
Piccolomini, 
Pound, 

Quick Cream Pie, 

Raised Loaf, 
Rice Flour, 



8i 
8i 
8i 
8i 

82 

82 
82 
82 

82 

83 
83 



Rockland, 

Sally Jewett, 

Silver, 

Snow, 

Spice, 

Sponge, 

Trifles, 

Walnut, 

Washington, 

White, 

White Mountain, 



83 

83 
83 
83 
83 
84 

84 

84 
84 
85 
85 



PICKLES. 



Bordeaux Sauce, . 

Cauliflower, 
Chili Sauce, . 
Chow-Chow, 
Cucumber, 
Cucumber, Sweet Ripe, 

Hodge Podge, 

Mustard, 

Ohio Catsup, 

Pickle for Beef, 
Pickle for Butter, 
Pickle for Ham, 
Pickle for Pork, . 



89 
90 

89 

89 
90 

93 
90 

90 

91 

91 
91 
91 
91 



Pickled Eggs, 
Pickled Lemons, 
Pickled Lemons,. 
Pickled Oysters, 
Pickled Peaches, 
Pickled Tongue, . 
Pure Grape, 

Spiced Currants, 
Sweet Piccalilli, 
Sweet Pickled Pears 

Tomato, ' . 
Tomato Catsup, . 
Tomato, Sweet Ripe, 
Tomato, Sweet, . 



92 
92 
92 
92 
92 
92 
90 

93 
93 
93 
94 

94 
94 
94 



Apple, 

Cider, 

Catawba Grape, 
Currant, . 

Directions for Making, 



JELLIES. 

95 Orange, .^ 

q5 To Can Pineapple, 

96 Sweet Apple Preserves, 

96 Wine, 
95 Wine.. 



96 

97 

97 
96 
97 



BEVERAGES. 



Chocolate, 
Cream Soda, 
Currant Shrub, 

Iced Tea, 

Lemonade for Picnics, 
Lemonade for Picnics, 



98 
98 

98 
98 
98 
99 



Mead, 

Pineapple, . 
Pop Beer, 

Raspberry Vinegar, 
Russian Tea, 



99 

99 
99 

99 
99 



112 



Afmond Cakes, . 

Butter Scotch, 

Caramels, Chocolate, 

Caramels,C reamed Chocolate, loi 

Checkerberry Droj>s, 

Chocolate Creams, 

Chocolate Drops, . 

Cocoanut, 

Cocoanut Drops, 

Cream, .... 102 



INDEX. 


CANDIES. 


100 


Cream Walnuts, 


100 


Ice Cream, . 


100 


Kisses, . 


e, loi 


Molasses, . 


lOI 
lOI 


Orange Drops, 


lOI 


Peppermints, 


lOI 


Stuffed Dates, 


lOI 


Taffy, 



102 

102 
102 
102 

ro2 

102 
103 
103 



CHAFING-DISHES. 



Cheese Fondu, . 


104 


Luncheon Sardines, . 


105 


Curried Fish, . 


104 


Oysters, Maitre d'Hotel, 


105 


Lobster, .... 
Lobster, a la Newburg, . 


104 

104 


Relish for Raw Oysters, 
Welsh Rarebit, 


105 
105 


DISHES 


FOR INVALIDS. 




Baked Milk, 
Beef Tea, 

Chicken Tea, . 

Eau Sucre, . . , 


106 
106 

106 

1 06 


Infant's Beef Tea, 
Lemon Moss, 
Toast Water, . 


106 
106 
106 



r I 




■. " V'. " c TV ■'•■■V .- . -.--•• «,■."■' . i*, *. . -Vt ' V >•- -, ..«'- 

*,. > •' ^- ^.'i .1/1* "^a** -ji. 4\. , *»,« * *•■ 

. ■•.'=.-, ^^Ji -'k<\'- :.'-:■■ K<-:i''^'.. /■<'-^> ■■'■:.■ -^ ■»,;•> '■■■■  



\ • .' *>,:.!  .. : .J h i.. ■.'■.■: - V;.,'. \'-.:.^-* • - ^-'V 







.'V ./'•' 



..4 .• J 




^" ;'V l.r 



:, 1 



• <.-:•—• ^; 






yv' 











•  . * ' :• •'( • : . . . '-r . . . . ' - . • 

. : /." .'^-^v qV vv: :v:';;. vr v^v^^-v^- ^'^ .-^"i'^ '^^^^- '■"'■' ' 



>  




\'^\ V 











r I 





'  • ./''■•, J- JO I 











' V 






